
The Portrait of a Lady
一位女士的肖像

By Henry James
亨利·詹姆斯

Chapter 1
第1章

Under certain circumstances there are few hours in life more agreeable than the hour dedicated to the ceremony known as afternoon tea. There are circumstances in which, whether you partake of the tea or not—some people of course never do—the situation is in itself delightful. Those that I have in mind in beginning to unfold this simple history offered an admirable setting to an innocent pastime. The implements of the little feast had been disposed upon the lawn of an old English country-house, in what I should call the perfect middle of a splendid summer afternoon. Part of the afternoon had waned, but much of it was left, and what was left was of the finest and rarest quality. Real dusk would not arrive for many hours; but the flood of summer light had begun to ebb, the air had grown mellow, the shadows were long upon the smooth, dense turf. They lengthened slowly, however, and the scene expressed that sense of leisure still to come which is perhaps the chief source of one’s enjoyment of such a scene at such an hour. From five o’clock to eight is on certain occasions a little eternity; but on such an occasion as this the interval could be only an eternity of pleasure. The persons concerned in it were taking their pleasure quietly, and they were not of the sex which is supposed to furnish the regular votaries of the ceremony I have mentioned. The shadows on the perfect lawn were straight and angular; they were the shadows of an old man sitting in a deep wicker-chair near the low table on which the tea had been served, and of two younger men strolling to and fro, in desultory talk, in front of him. The old man had his cup in his hand; it was an unusually large cup, of a different pattern from the rest of the set and painted in brilliant colours. He disposed of its contents with much circumspection, holding it for a long time close to his chin, with his face turned to the house. His companions had either finished their tea or were indifferent to their privilege; they smoked cigarettes as they continued to stroll. One of them, from time to time, as he passed, looked with a certain attention at the elder man, who, unconscious of observation, rested his eyes upon the rich red front of his dwelling. The house that rose beyond the lawn was a structure to repay such consideration and was the most characteristic object in the peculiarly English picture I have attempted to sketch.
在某些情况下，生活中没有什么时间比专门用于下午茶仪式的时间更令人愉快的了。在某些情况下，无论你是否喝茶（当然有些人从来不喝），情况本身都是令人愉快的。我想到的那些开始展开这段简单历史的人为一种天真无邪的消遣提供了令人钦佩的背景。这场小宴会的用具被放置在一座古老的英国乡间别墅的草坪上，我应该称之为一个灿烂的夏日午后的完美时刻。下午的时间已经过去了，但大部分时间都还剩下来，剩下的都是最优质、最稀有的品质。真正的黄昏要等好几个小时才会到来。但夏日的阳光已经开始退去，空气变得柔和，光滑浓密的草皮上的影子很长。然而，它们慢慢地拉长了，这个场景表达了一种尚未到来的悠闲感，这也许是一个人在这样的时刻享受这样的场景的主要来源。从五点到八点在某些情况下有点永恒；但在这种情况下，这段时间只能是永恒的快乐。参与其中的人正在安静地享受他们的快乐，他们并不是我所提到的仪式的定期投票者的性别。完美草坪上的影子笔直而有棱角；那是一个老人的影子，他坐在摆茶的矮桌旁的一张深藤椅上，还有两个年轻人在他面前来来回回地闲聊，闲聊着。老人手里拿着杯子；这是一个异常大的杯子，其图案与其他杯子不同，并涂有鲜艳的色彩。 他非常小心地处理掉里面的东西，长时间地把它放在下巴附近，脸转向房子。他的同伴要么已经喝完茶，要么对他们的特权漠不关心。他们一边抽烟一边继续散步。当他经过时，其中一个人时不时地用一定的注意力看这位老人，而老人则无意识地把目光停留在他住处鲜红的正面上。草坪之外的房子就是为了回报这种考虑而建造的，它是我试图描绘的英国特有的画面中最具特色的对象。

It stood upon a low hill, above the river—the river being the Thames at some forty miles from London. A long gabled front of red brick, with the complexion of which time and the weather had played all sorts of pictorial tricks, only, however, to improve and refine it, presented to the lawn its patches of ivy, its clustered chimneys, its windows smothered in creepers. The house had a name and a history; the old gentleman taking his tea would have been delighted to tell you these things: how it had been built under Edward the Sixth, had offered a night’s hospitality to the great Elizabeth (whose august person had extended itself upon a huge, magnificent, and terribly angular bed which still formed the principal honour of the sleeping apartments), had been a good deal bruised and defaced in Cromwell’s wars, and then, under the Restoration, repaired and much enlarged; and how, finally, after having been remodelled and disfigured in the eighteenth century, it had passed into the careful keeping of a shrewd American banker, who had bought it originally because (owing to circumstances too complicated to set forth) it was offered at a great bargain: bought it with much grumbling at its ugliness, its antiquity, its incommodity, and who now, at the end of twenty years, had become conscious of a real aesthetic passion for it, so that he knew all its points and would tell you just where to stand to see them in combination and just the hour when the shadows of its various protuberances—which fell so softly upon the warm, weary brickwork—were of the right measure. Besides this, as I have said, he could have counted off most of the successive owners and occupants, several of whom were known to general fame; doing so, however, with an undemonstrative conviction that the latest phase of its destiny was not the least honourable. The front of the house overlooking that portion of the lawn with which we are concerned was not the entrance-front; this was in quite another quarter. Privacy here reigned supreme, and the wide carpet of turf that covered the level hill-top seemed but the extension of a luxurious interior. The great still oaks and beeches flung down a shade as dense as that of velvet curtains; and the place was furnished, like a room, with cushioned seats, with rich-coloured rugs, with the books and papers that lay upon the grass. The river was at some distance; where the ground began to slope, the lawn, properly speaking, ceased. But it was none the less a charming walk down to the water.
它坐落在一座低矮的小山上，位于河流上方——这条河是泰晤士河，距伦敦约四十英里。红砖砌成的长长的山墙式正面，时间和天气对它的肤色进行了各种各样的绘画把戏，然而，只是为了改进和完善它，在草坪上呈现出一片片常春藤、丛生的烟囱和窗户。被爬行者窒息。这所房子有一个名字和一段历史；老绅士一边喝茶，一边会很高兴地告诉你这些事情：它是如何在爱德华六世的统治下建造的，如何为伟大的伊丽莎白提供一晚的款待（她威严的人物已经延伸到了一座巨大的、宏伟的、可怕的建筑上）。角床仍然是卧室的主要荣誉），在克伦威尔的战争中受到了很大的损伤和损坏，然后在王政复辟时期，得到了修复和扩大；最后，在十八世纪经过改造和毁容之后，它如何被一位精明的美国银行家精心保管，他最初购买它是因为（由于情况太复杂，无法说明）它是在一个拍卖会上出售的。物超所值：买下它时，对它的丑陋、它的古老、它的不便深感抱怨，而现在，在二十年后，他已经意识到对它的真正的审美热情，所以他知道它的所有要点并会告诉你正好站在哪里可以看到它们的组合，也正是它各个突出物的阴影——它们如此轻柔地落在温暖、疲惫的砖墙上——的时间恰到好处。 除此之外，正如我所说，他可以算出大多数继任业主和居住者，其中一些人享有盛誉。然而，这样做是带着一种含蓄的信念，即它的命运的最新阶段并不是最不光荣的。房子的前面，俯瞰着我们所关心的那部分草坪，并不是入口处；而是前面。这已经是另一个季度的事了。这里的隐私是至高无上的，覆盖平坦山顶的宽阔草坪似乎只是豪华内饰的延伸。寂静的高大橡树和山毛榉树下投下浓密的阴影，就像天鹅绒窗帘一样。这个地方布置得像一个房间，有软垫的座椅，色彩鲜艳的地毯，草地上放着书籍和报纸。河流离我们有一段距离；地面开始倾斜的地方，确切地说，草坪就停止了。但无论如何，步行到水边还是很迷人的。

The old gentleman at the tea-table, who had come from America thirty years before, had brought with him, at the top of his baggage, his American physiognomy; and he had not only brought it with him, but he had kept it in the best order, so that, if necessary, he might have taken it back to his own country with perfect confidence. At present, obviously, nevertheless, he was not likely to displace himself; his journeys were over, and he was taking the rest that precedes the great rest. He had a narrow, clean-shaven face, with features evenly distributed and an expression of placid acuteness. It was evidently a face in which the range of representation was not large, so that the air of contented shrewdness was all the more of a merit. It seemed to tell that he had been successful in life, yet it seemed to tell also that his success had not been exclusive and invidious, but had had much of the inoffensiveness of failure. He had certainly had a great experience of men, but there was an almost rustic simplicity in the faint smile that played upon his lean, spacious cheek and lighted up his humorous eye as he at last slowly and carefully deposited his big tea-cup upon the table. He was neatly dressed, in well-brushed black; but a shawl was folded upon his knees, and his feet were encased in thick, embroidered slippers. A beautiful collie dog lay upon the grass near his chair, watching the master’s face almost as tenderly as the master took in the still more magisterial physiognomy of the house; and a little bristling, bustling terrier bestowed a desultory attendance upon the other gentlemen.
茶桌旁的那位老先生三十年前从美国来到这里，他的行李中最重要的是他的美国相貌。他不仅随身携带了它，而且还把它保存得井井有条，以便在必要时，他可以满怀信心地将它带回自己的国家。不过，目前看来，他显然不太可能取代自己。他的旅程已经结束，他正在享受伟大安息之前的休息。他有一张窄脸，胡子刮得干干净净，五官分布均匀，表情平静而敏锐。显然，这张脸的表现范围并不大，因此，那种满足的精明神情就更显优点了。这似乎表明他的人生是成功的，但也似乎表明他的成功并不是排他性的和令人反感的，而是有很多失败的无伤大雅。他确实对男人有着丰富的经验，但当他最后慢慢地、小心翼翼地把大茶杯放在桌子上时，他那瘦削、宽阔的脸颊上浮现出淡淡的微笑，照亮了他幽默的眼睛，那笑容里有一种近乎质朴的纯朴。桌子。他衣着整洁，黑色的衣服擦得干干净净。但他的膝盖上披着一条围巾，脚上穿着厚厚的绣花拖鞋。一只漂亮的牧羊犬躺在他椅子附近的草地上，温柔地注视着主人的脸，就像主人欣赏这栋房子更加威严的面貌一样。一只毛茸茸的、忙碌的小梗犬给其他先生带来了断断续续的服务。

One of these was a remarkably well-made man of five-and-thirty, with a face as English as that of the old gentleman I have just sketched was something else; a noticeably handsome face, fresh-coloured, fair and frank, with firm, straight features, a lively grey eye and the rich adornment of a chestnut beard. This person had a certain fortunate, brilliant exceptional look—the air of a happy temperament fertilized by a high civilization—which would have made almost any observer envy him at a venture. He was booted and spurred, as if he had dismounted from a long ride; he wore a white hat, which looked too large for him; he held his two hands behind him, and in one of them—a large, white, well-shaped fist—was crumpled a pair of soiled dog-skin gloves.
其中一个是一位身材非常好的男人，五岁半，三十岁，有着一张像我刚才画的那位老绅士一样英国人的脸，但又是另一回事。一张非常英俊的脸，肤色清新，白皙坦率，五官坚毅挺拔，灰色的眼睛充满活力，栗色的胡须装饰丰富。此人有一种幸运、光彩照人的独特外表——一种由高度文明孕育出来的快乐气质——这几乎会让任何旁观者羡慕他的冒险经历。他穿着靴子，受到马刺的刺激，就好像他刚刚从长途骑行中下来一样。他戴着一顶白帽子，这对他来说太大了。他把两只手放在身后，其中一只——一只又大又白、形状优美的拳头——握着一双皱巴巴的狗皮手套。

His companion, measuring the length of the lawn beside him, was a person of quite a different pattern, who, although he might have excited grave curiosity, would not, like the other, have provoked you to wish yourself, almost blindly, in his place. Tall, lean, loosely and feebly put together, he had an ugly, sickly, witty, charming face, furnished, but by no means decorated, with a straggling moustache and whisker. He looked clever and ill—a combination by no means felicitous; and he wore a brown velvet jacket. He carried his hands in his pockets, and there was something in the way he did it that showed the habit was inveterate. His gait had a shambling, wandering quality; he was not very firm on his legs. As I have said, whenever he passed the old man in the chair he rested his eyes upon him; and at this moment, with their faces brought into relation, you would easily have seen they were father and son. The father caught his son’s eye at last and gave him a mild, responsive smile.
他的同伴正在测量他旁边草坪的长度，他的性格却截然不同，虽然他可能会激起强烈的好奇心，但不会像另一个人那样激起你几乎盲目地希望自己在他的地方。他又高又瘦，身材松散无力，长着一张丑陋、病弱、诙谐、迷人的脸，虽然装饰得很漂亮，但绝不是装饰，留着散乱的小胡子和胡须。他看上去既聪明又病态——这种组合决不是幸福的。他穿着一件棕色天鹅绒夹克。他把手插在口袋里，从他的动作中可以看出这个习惯是根深蒂固的。他的步态有一种蹒跚、徘徊的感觉。他的腿不太稳。正如我所说，每当他经过坐在椅子上的老人身边时，他都会把目光落在他身上。此时此刻，从他们的脸庞看得出，你很容易看出他们是父子。父亲终于看到了儿子的目光，给了他一个温和而回应的微笑。

‘I’m getting on very well,’ he said.
“我过得很好，”他说。

‘Have you drunk your tea?’ asked the son.
“你喝茶了吗？”儿子问。

‘Yes, and enjoyed it.’
“是的，而且很享受。”

‘Shall I give you some more?’
“我再给你一些吗？”

The old man considered, placidly. ‘Well, I guess I’ll wait and see.’ He had, in speaking, the American tone.
老者沉思着，语气平静。 “好吧，我想我会等等看。”他说话时带着美国人的语气。

‘Are you cold?’ the son enquired.
儿子问：“你冷吗？”

The father slowly rubbed his legs. ‘Well, I don’t know. I can’t tell till I feel.’
父亲慢慢地揉着腿。 ‘好吧，我不知道。在我感觉到之前我无法判断。

‘Perhaps some one might feel for you,’ said the younger man, laughing.
“也许有人会同情你，”年轻人笑着说道。

‘Oh, I hope some one will always feel for me! Don’t you feel for me, Lord Warburton?’
‘哦，我希望有人能永远同情我！沃伯顿勋爵，你对我没有感觉吗？

‘Oh yes, immensely,’ said the gentleman addressed as Lord Warburton, promptly. ‘I’m bound to say you look wonderfully comfortable.’
“哦，是的，非常好，”这位自称为沃伯顿勋爵的绅士立即说道。 “我不得不说你看起来非常舒服。”

‘Well, I suppose I am, in most respects.’ And the old man looked down at his green shawl and smoothed it over his knees. ‘The fact is I’ve been comfortable so many years that I suppose I’ve got so used to it I don’t know it.’
“嗯，我想在大多数方面我都是如此。”老人低头看着他的绿色披肩，把它抚平在膝盖上。 “事实上，多年来我一直过得很舒服，我想我已经习惯了，我自己都不知道。”

‘Yes, that’s the bore of comfort,’ said Lord Warburton. ‘We only know when we’re uncomfortable.’
“是的，这就是令人感到安慰的事，”沃伯顿勋爵说。 “我们只有在不舒服的时候才知道。”

‘It strikes me we’re rather particular,’ his companion remarked.
“我觉得我们相当特别，”他的同伴说道。

‘Oh yes, there’s no doubt we’re particular,’ Lord Warburton murmured. And then the three men remained silent a while; the two younger ones standing looking down at the other, who presently asked for more tea. ‘I should think you would be very unhappy with that shawl,’ Lord Warburton resumed while his companion filled the old man’s cup again.
“哦，是的，毫无疑问我们很特别，”沃伯顿勋爵低声说道。然后三个人沉默了一会儿。两个年轻的站着，低头看着对方，对方随即要了更多的茶。 “我想你会对那条围巾非常不满意，”沃伯顿勋爵继续说道，而他的同伴又给老人倒了杯子。

‘Oh no, he must have the shawl!’ cried the gentleman in the velvet coat. ‘Don’t put such ideas as that into his head.’
“哦，不，他一定有那条披肩！”穿天鹅绒外套的绅士喊道。 “别把这样的想法塞进他的脑子里。”

‘It belongs to my wife,’ said the old man simply.
“它是我妻子的。”老人简单地说。

‘Oh, if it’s for sentimental reasons-’ And Lord Warburton made a gesture of apology.
“哦，如果是出于情感原因——”沃伯顿勋爵做了一个道歉的手势。

‘I suppose I must give it to her when she comes,’ the old man went on.
“我想她来的时候我必须把它给她，”老人继续说道。

‘You’ll please to do nothing of the kind. You’ll keep it to cover your poor old legs.’
“请你不要做这种事。”你可以保留它来遮盖你可怜的老腿。

‘Well, you mustn’t abuse my legs,’ said the old man. ‘I guess they are as good as yours.’
“好吧，你不许虐待我的腿。”老人说道。 “我猜它们和你的一样好。”

‘Oh, you’re perfectly free to abuse mine,’ his son replied, giving him his tea.
“哦，你完全可以随意虐待我的，”他的儿子一边回答，一边给他倒茶。

‘Well, we’re two lame ducks; I don’t think there’s much difference.’
‘好吧，我们是两只跛脚鸭；我认为没有太大区别。

‘I’m much obliged to you for calling me a duck. How’s your tea?’
“我非常感谢你叫我鸭子。你的茶怎么样？

‘Well, it’s rather hot.’
“嗯，天气相当热。”

‘That’s intended to be a merit.’
“这本来就是一种功德。”

‘Ah, there’s a great deal of merit,’ murmured the old man, kindly. ‘He’s a very good nurse, Lord Warburton.’
“啊，功德可大了。”老人和蔼地低声说道。 “沃伯顿勋爵，他是一位非常好的护士。”

‘Isn’t he a bit clumsy?’ asked his lordship.
“他是不是有点笨拙？”大人问道。

‘Oh no, he’s not clumsy—considering that he’s an invalid himself. He’s a very good nurse—for a sick-nurse. I call him my sick-nurse because he’s sick himself.’
“哦，不，他并不笨拙——考虑到他自己也是个病人。对于一个生病的护士来说，他是一位非常好的护士。我称他为我的生病护士，因为他自己也病了。

‘Oh, come, daddy!’ the ugly young man exclaimed.
“哦，来吧，爸爸！”丑陋的年轻人惊呼道。

‘Well, you are; I wish you weren’t. But I suppose you can’t help it.’
‘好吧，你是；我希望你不是。但我想你也无能为力。”

‘I might try: that’s an idea,’ said the young man.
“我可以尝试一下：这是一个主意，”年轻人说。

‘Were you ever sick, Lord Warburton?’ his father asked.
“沃伯顿勋爵，您病过吗？”他的父亲问道。

Lord Warburton considered a moment. ‘Yes, sir, once, in the Persian Gulf.’
沃伯顿勋爵考虑了一会儿。 “是的，先生，有一次，在波斯湾。”

He’s making light of you, daddy,’ said the other young man. ‘That’s a sort of joke.’
他在嘲笑你，爸爸。”另一个年轻人说道。 “这是一个笑话。”

‘Well, there seem to be so many sorts now,’ daddy replied, serenely. ‘You don’t look as if you had been sick, any way, Lord Warburton.’
“嗯，现在看来有很多种类了，”爸爸平静地回答道。 “无论如何，你看起来不像生病了，沃伯顿勋爵。”

‘He’s sick of life; he was just telling me so; going on fearfully about it,’ said Lord Warburton’s friend.
“他厌倦了生活；他只是这么告诉我的；沃伯顿勋爵的朋友说：“我一直对此感到恐惧。”

‘Is that true, sir?’ asked the old man gravely.
“先生，这是真的吗？”老人严肃地问道。

‘If it is, your son gave me no consolation. He’s a wretched fellow to talk to—a regular cynic. He doesn’t seem to believe in anything.’
“如果是这样，你的儿子就没有给我任何安慰。他是一个很难相处的家伙——一个经常愤世嫉俗的人。他似乎什么都不相信。

‘That’s another sort of joke,’ said the person accused of cynicism.
“这又是一个笑话，”被指控玩世不恭的人说。

‘It’s because his health is so poor,’ his father explained to Lord Warburton. ‘It affects his mind and colours his way of looking at things; he seems to feel as if he had never had a chance. But it’s almost entirely theoretical, you know; it doesn’t seem to affect his spirits. I’ve hardly ever seen him when he wasn’t cheerful—about as he is at present. He often cheers me up.’
“这是因为他的健康状况太差了，”他的父亲向沃伯顿勋爵解释道。 “它影响他的思想，影响他看待事物的方式；他似乎觉得自己从来没有机会。但这几乎完全是理论上的，你知道；似乎并没有影响到他的精神。我几乎从来没有见过他不高兴的时候——就像他现在一样。他经常让我高兴起来。”

The young man so described looked at Lord Warburton and laughed. ‘Is it a glowing eulogy or an accusation of levity? Should you like me to carry out my theories, daddy?’
所描述的年轻人看着沃伯顿勋爵，笑了。 “这是热情洋溢的悼词还是轻率的指责？爸爸，你希望我实现我的理论吗？

‘By Jove, we should see some queer things!’ cried Lord Warburton.
“天哪，我们应该看到一些奇怪的东西！”沃伯顿勋爵喊道。

‘I hope you haven’t taken up that sort of tone,’ said the old man.
“我希望你没有采取那种语气，”老人说。

‘Warburton’s tone is worse than mine; he pretends to be bored. I’m not in the least bored; I find life only too interesting.’
“沃伯顿的语气比我的更糟糕；他假装很无聊。我一点也不觉得无聊；我发现生活太有趣了。

‘Ah, too interesting; you shouldn’t allow it to be that, you know!’
‘啊，太有趣了；你不应该允许这样的事情发生，你知道！

‘I’m never bored when I come here,’ said Lord Warburton. ‘One gets such uncommonly good talk.’
“我来这里从来不会感到无聊，”沃伯顿勋爵说。 “一个人能得到如此难得的好谈话。”

‘Is that another sort of joke?’ asked the old man. ‘You’ve no excuse for being bored anywhere. When I was your age I had never heard of such a thing.’
“这又是一个笑话吗？”老人问道。 “你没有理由在任何地方感到无聊。当我像你这个年纪的时候，我从来没有听说过这样的事情。”

‘You must have developed very late.’
“你一定发育得很晚。”

‘No, I developed very quick; that was just the reason. When I was twenty years old I was very highly developed indeed. I was working tooth and nail. You wouldn’t be bored if you had something to do; but all you young men are too idle. You think too much of your pleasure. You’re too fastidious, and too indolent, and too rich.’
‘不，我发育得很快；这就是原因。当我二十岁的时候，我确实已经非常发达了。我正在竭尽全力地工作。如果你有事可做，你就不会感到无聊；但你们这些年轻人都太闲了。你把自己的快乐想得太多了。你太挑剔了，太懒惰了，而且太富有了。”

‘Oh, I say,’ cried Lord Warburton, ‘you’re hardly the person to accuse a fellow-creature of being too rich!’
“哦，我说，”沃伯顿勋爵喊道，“你不是一个指责同胞太富有的人！”

‘Do you mean because I’m a banker?’ asked the old man.
“你是说因为我是银行家吗？”老人问道。

‘Because of that, if you like; and because you have—haven’t you?such unlimited means.’
“正因为如此，如果你愿意的话；因为你有——不是吗？如此无限的手段。

‘He isn’t very rich,’ the other young man mercifully pleaded. ‘He has given away an immense deal of money.’
“他不是很有钱，”另一个年轻人仁慈地恳求道。 “他捐出了一大笔钱。”

‘Well, I suppose it was his own,’ said Lord Warburton; ‘and in that case could there be a better proof of wealth? Let not a public benefactor talk of one’s being too fond of pleasure.’
“嗯，我想那是他自己的，”沃伯顿勋爵说。 ‘既然如此，还有更好的财富证明吗？公共捐助者不要谈论一个人太喜欢享乐。

‘Daddy’s very fond of pleasure—of other people’s.’
“爸爸非常喜欢快乐——喜欢别人的快乐。”

The old man shook his head. ‘I don’t pretend to have contributed anything to the amusement of my contemporaries.’
老人摇摇头。 “我不会假装自己为同时代的人带来了任何乐趣。”

‘My dear father, you’re too modest!’
“我亲爱的父亲，您太谦虚了！”

‘That’s a kind of joke, sir,’ said Lord Warburton.
“这是一个笑话，先生，”沃伯顿勋爵说。

‘You young men have too many jokes. When there are no jokes you’ve nothing left.’
‘你们年轻人的笑话太多了。当没有笑话时，你就什么都没有了。

‘Fortunately there are always more jokes,’ the ugly young man remarked.
“幸好笑话总是多一些。”丑陋的年轻人说道。

‘I don’t believe it—I believe things are getting more serious. You young men will find that out.’
“我不相信——我相信事情正在变得更加严重。你们年轻人会发现这一点的。

‘The increasing seriousness of things, then—that’s the great opportunity of jokes.’
“那么，事情变得越来越严肃——那就是开玩笑的好机会。”

‘They’ll have to be grim jokes,’ said the old man. ‘I’m convinced there will be great changes; and not all for the better.’
“这一定是个残酷的笑话，”老人说。 “我相信将会发生巨大的变化；但并不是一切都变得更好。

‘I quite agree with you, sir,’ Lord Warburton declared. ‘I’m very sure there will be great changes, and that all sorts of queer things will happen. That’s why I find so much difficulty in applying your advice; you know you told me the other day that I ought to ‘take hold’ of something. One hesitates to take hold of a thing that may the next moment be knocked sky-high.’
“我完全同意你的观点，先生，”沃伯顿勋爵宣称。 “我非常确信将会发生巨大的变化，各种奇怪的事情都会发生。这就是为什么我很难应用你的建议；你知道你前几天告诉我我应该“抓住”某件事。人们会犹豫是否要抓住一件可能下一刻就会被撞到天上的东西。

‘You ought to take hold of a pretty woman,’ said his companion. ‘He’s trying hard to fall in love,’ he added, by way of explanation, to his father.
“你应该抓住一个漂亮的女人，”他的同伴说。 “他正在努力坠入爱河，”他向父亲解释道。

‘The pretty women themselves may be sent flying!’ Lord Warburton exclaimed.
“漂亮女人本身可能会被飞走！”沃伯顿勋爵惊呼道。

‘No, no, they’ll be firm,’ the old man rejoined; ‘they’ll not be affected by the social and political changes I just referred to.’
“不，不，他们会很坚定的，”老人回答道。 “他们不会受到我刚才提到的社会和政治变化的影响。”

‘You mean they won’t be abolished? Very well, then, I’ll lay my hands on one as soon as possible and tie her round my neck as a life-preserver.’
“你的意思是它们不会被废除？好吧，那么，我会尽快把手放在其中，并将她绑在我的脖子上作为救生圈。

‘The ladies will save us,’ said the old man; ‘that is the best of them will—for I make a difference between them. Make up to a good one and marry her, and your life will become much more interesting.’
“女士们会救我们的，”老人说。 “这是他们中最好的意愿——因为我使他们与众不同。好好打扮一下，娶了她，你的生活就会变得更加有趣。”

A momentary silence marked perhaps on the part of his auditors a sense of the magnanimity of this speech, for it was a secret neither for his son nor for his visitor that his own experiment in matrimony had not been a happy one. As he said, however, he made a difference; and these words may have been intended as a confession of personal error; though of course it was not in place for either of his companions to remark that apparently the lady of his choice had not been one of the best.
短暂的沉默也许让听众感受到了这次演讲的宽宏大量，因为无论对他的儿子还是对他的来访者来说，他自己的婚姻实验并不幸福，这都不是秘密。然而，正如他所说，他做出了改变。这些话可能是为了承认个人错误；当然，他的两个同伴都没有资格说他选择的女士显然不是最好的女士之一。

‘If I marry an interesting woman I shall be interested: is that what you say?’ Lord Warburton asked. ‘I’m not at all keen about marryingyour son misrepresented me; but there’s no knowing what an interesting woman might do with me.’
“如果我娶了一个有趣的女人，我就会感兴趣：你是这么说的吗？”沃伯顿勋爵问道。 “我一点也不热衷于嫁给你的儿子，你的儿子歪曲了我；但不知道一个有趣的女人会对我做什么。”

‘I should like to see your idea of an interesting woman,’ said his friend.
“我想看看你对一个有趣女人的看法，”他的朋友说。

‘My dear fellow, you can’t see ideas—especially such highly ethereal ones as mine. If I could only see myself—that would be a great step in advance.’
“我亲爱的朋友，你看不到想法——尤其是像我这样高度空灵的想法。如果我能看到自己——那将是一大进步。”

‘Well, you may fall in love with whomsoever you please; but you mustn’t fall in love with my niece,’ said the old man.
“好吧，你可以爱上任何你喜欢的人；但你绝对不能爱上我的侄女。”老人说道。

His son broke into a laugh. ‘He’ll think you mean that as a provocation! My dear father, you’ve lived with the English for thirty years, and you’ve picked up a good many of the things they say. But you’ve never learned the things they don’t say!’
他的儿子突然大笑起来。 “他会认为你的意思是挑衅！”我亲爱的父亲，您与英国人一起生活了三十年，您已经学到了很多他们所说的东西。但你永远不会学到他们没有说的东西！”

‘I say what I please,’ the old man returned with all his serenity.
“我想说什么就说什么。”老人平静地回答道。

‘I haven’t the honour of knowing your niece,’ Lord Warburton said. ‘I think it’s the first time I’ve heard of her.’
“我没有荣幸认识你的侄女，”沃伯顿勋爵说。 “我想这是我第一次听说她。”

‘She’s a niece of my wife’s; Mrs. Touchett brings her to England.’
“她是我妻子的侄女；塔切特夫人把她带到了英国。

Then young Mr. Touchett explained. ‘My mother, you know, has been spending the winter in America, and we’re expecting her back. She writes that she has discovered a niece and that she has invited her to come out with her.’
然后年轻的图切特先生解释道。 “你知道，我的母亲一直在美国过冬，我们期待她回来。她写道，她发现了一个侄女，并邀请她一起出去。

‘I see—very kind of her,’ said Lord Warburton. ‘Is the young lady interesting?’
“我明白了——她真是太好了，”沃伯顿勋爵说。 “这位小姐有趣吗？”

‘We hardly know more about her than you; my mother has not gone into details. She chiefly communicates with us by means of telegrams, and her telegrams are rather inscrutable. They say women don’t know how to write them, but my mother has thoroughly mastered the art of condensation. ‘Tired America, hot weather awful, return England with niece, first steamer decent cabin.’ That’s the sort of message we get from her—that was the last that came. But there had been another before, which I think contained the first mention of the niece. ‘Changed hotel, very bad, impudent clerk, address here. Taken sister’s girl, died last year, go to Europe, two sisters, quite independent.’ Over that my father and I have scarcely stopped puzzling; it seems to admit of so many interpretations.’
“我们对她的了解并不比你多；我母亲没有详细说明。她主要是通过电报与我们联系，她的电报比较神秘。都说女人不懂得写字，但我母亲却深谙凝练之术。 “疲惫的美国，炎热的天气，带着侄女返回英国，第一艘轮船像样的客舱。”这就是我们从她那里得到的信息——这是最后一条信息。但之前还有另一篇文章，我认为其中第一次提到了侄女。 ‘换了酒店，非常糟糕，无礼的店员，地址在这里。带着姐姐的女儿，去年去世了，去了欧洲，两姐妹，很独立。它似乎承认有这么多的解释。

‘There’s one thing very clear in it,’ said the old man; ‘she has given the hotel-clerk a dressing.’
“其中有一件事非常清楚，”老人说； “她已经给酒店服务员敷料了。”

‘I’m not sure even of that, since he has driven her from the field. We thought at first that the sister mentioned might be the sister of the clerk; but the subsequent mention of a niece seems to prove that the allusion is to one of my aunts. There there was a question as to whose the two other sisters were; they are probably two of my late aunt’s daughters. But who’s ‘quite independent,’ and in what sense is the term used?—that point’s not yet settled. Does the expression apply more particularly to the young lady my mother has adopted, or does it characterize her sisters equally?—and is it used in a moral or in a financial sense? Does it mean that they’ve been left well off, or that they wish to be under no obligations? or does it simply mean that they’re fond of their own way?’
“我什至都不确定，因为他已经把她赶出了球场。我们一开始以为提到的妹妹可能是店员的妹妹；但随后提到的侄女似乎证明这是对我的一位阿姨的暗示。还有一个问题是另外两个姐妹是谁？她们可能是我已故姑妈的两个女儿。但谁是“相当独立”，这个词在什么意义上使用？——这一点还没有定论。这个表达方式是否更特别地适用于我母亲收养的那位年轻女士，或者它是否同样适用于她的姐妹们？——它是在道德意义上还是在经济意义上使用？这是否意味着他们已经过得很富裕，或者他们不希望承担任何义务？或者这仅仅意味着他们喜欢自己的方式？

‘Whatever else it means, it’s pretty sure to mean that,’ Mr. Touchett remarked.
“无论它还意味着什么，它肯定就是这个意思，”图切特先生说道。

‘You’ll see for yourself,’ said Lord Warburton. ‘When does Mrs. Touchett arrive?’
“你会亲眼看到的，”沃伯顿勋爵说。 “图切特夫人什么时候到？”

‘We’re quite in the dark; as soon as she can find a decent cabin. She may be waiting for it yet; on the other hand she may already have disembarked in England.’
“我们完全处于黑暗之中；一旦她能找到一个像样的小屋。她可能还在等待；另一方面，她可能已经在英国下船了。

‘In that case she would probably have telegraphed to you.’
“那样的话，她可能会发电报给你。”

‘She never telegraphs when you would expect it—only when you don’t,’ said the old man. ‘She likes to drop in on me suddenly; she thinks she’ll find me doing something wrong. She has never done so yet, but she’s not discouraged.’
“她从不在你期望的时候发电报——只有在你不期望的时候才发电报，”老人说。 “她喜欢突然来看我；她认为她会发现我做错了什么。她还从未这样做过，但她并不灰心。”

‘It’s her share in the family trait, the independence she speaks of.’ Her son’s appreciation of the matter was more favourable. ‘Whatever the high spirit of those young ladies may be, her own is a match for it. She likes to do everything for herself and has no belief in any one’s power to help her. She thinks me of no more use than a postage-stamp without gum, and she would never forgive me if I should presume to go to Liverpool to meet her.’
“这是她的家庭特质，她所说的独立。”她儿子对此事的评价更为有利。 “无论那些年轻女士的精神有多高，她自己都可以与之匹敌。她喜欢自己做所有事情，不相信任何人有能力帮助她。她认为我的用处就像一张没有口香糖的邮票，如果我冒昧去利物浦见她，她永远不会原谅我。

‘Will you at least let me know when your cousin arrives?’ Lord Warburton asked.
“你的表弟到达时至少可以通知我一下吗？”沃伯顿勋爵问。

‘Only on the condition I’ve mentioned—that you don’t fall in love with her!’ Mr. Touchett replied.
“只有我提到的条件——你不能爱上她！”图切特先生回答道。

‘That strikes me as hard. Don’t you think me good enough?’
这让我印象深刻。你觉得我还不够好吗？

‘I think you too good—because I shouldn’t like her to marry you. She hasn’t come here to look for a husband, I hope; so many young ladies are doing that, as if there were no good ones at home. Then she’s probably engaged; American girls are usually engaged, I believe. Moreover I’m not sure, after all, that you’d be a remarkable husband.’
“我觉得你太好了——因为我不应该让她嫁给你。”我希望她来这里不是为了寻找丈夫；那么多小姐都这么干，好像家里没有好人似的。那么她可能已经订婚了；我相信美国女孩通常都会订婚。而且，我毕竟不确定你会成为一个出色的丈夫。

‘Very likely she’s engaged; I’ve known a good many American girls, and they always were; but I could never see that it made any difference, upon my word! As for my being a good husband,’ Mr. Touchett’s visitor pursued, ‘I’m not sure of that either. One can but try!’
“她很可能已经订婚了；”我认识很多美国女孩，她们一直都是；但据我所知，我从来不认为这有什么区别！至于我是否是一个好丈夫，”图切特先生的来访者继续说道，“我也不确定。只能尝试一下！

‘Try as much as you please, but don’t try on my niece,’ smiled the old man, whose opposition to the idea was broadly humorous.
“你想怎么试就怎么试，但别在我侄女身上试，”老人微笑着说，他对这个想法的反对基本上是幽默的。

‘Ah, well,’ said Lord Warburton with a humour broader still, ‘perhaps after all, she’s not worth trying on!’
“啊，好吧，”沃伯顿勋爵带着更广泛的幽默说道，“也许毕竟，她不值得尝试！”

Chapter 2
第2章

While this exchange of pleasantries took place between the two Ralph Touchett wandered away a little, with his usual slouching gait, his hands in his pockets and his little rowdyish terrier at his heels. His face was turned toward the house, but his eyes were bent musingly on the lawn; so that he had been an object of observation to a person who had just made her appearance in the ample doorway for some moments before he perceived her. His attention was called to her by the conduct of his dog, who had suddenly darted forward with a little volley of shrill barks, in which the note of welcome, however, was more sensible than that of defiance. The person in question was a young lady, who seemed immediately to interpret the greeting of the small beast. He advanced with great rapidity and stood at her feet, looking up and barking hard; whereupon, without hesitation, she stooped and caught him in her hands, holding him face to face while he continued his quick chatter. His master now had had time to follow and to see that Bunchie’s new friend was a tall girl in a black dress, who at first sight looked pretty. She was bareheaded, as if she were staying in the house—a fact which conveyed perplexity to the son of its master, conscious of that immunity from visitors which had for some time been rendered necessary by the latter’s ill-health. Meantime the two other gentlemen had also taken note of the new-comer.
当两人寒暄时，拉尔夫·图奇特走开了一点，他的步态一如既往地懒散，双手插在口袋里，他那只粗暴的小猎犬跟在他的脚后跟上。他的脸转向房子，但眼睛却若有所思地盯着草坪。因此，当一个人刚刚出现在宽敞的门口时，他就成为了观察她的对象，然后他就发现了她。他的狗的行为引起了他的注意，狗突然向前猛冲，发出一阵尖利的吠叫，然而，其中的欢迎语气比蔑视更为明智。对方是一位年轻女士，她似乎立刻就解读出了小兽的问候。他以极快的速度向前走去，站在她的脚边，抬起头，用力吠叫。于是，她毫不犹豫地弯下腰，将他抱在手中，面对面地抱着他，而他则继续着快速的喋喋不休。他的主人现在有时间跟踪，看到邦奇的新朋友是一个穿着黑色连衣裙的高个子女孩，乍一看很漂亮。她没戴帽子，就好像她住在这所房子里一样——这一事实让主人的儿子感到困惑，他意识到，由于主人的健康状况不佳，一段时间以来，她必须对访客保持免疫力。与此同时，另外两位先生也注意到了这位新来者。

‘Dear me, who’s that strange woman?’ Mr. Touchett had asked.
“天哪，那个奇怪的女人是谁？”图切特先生问道。

‘Perhaps it’s Mrs. Touchett’s niece—the independent young lady,’ Lord Warburton suggested. ‘I think she must be, from the way she handles the dog.’
“也许是塔奇特夫人的侄女——一位独立的年轻女士，”沃伯顿勋爵建议道。 “从她对待狗的方式来看，我想她一定是这样。”

The collie, too, had now allowed his attention to be diverted, and he trotted toward the young lady in the doorway, slowly setting his tail in motion as he went.
牧羊犬现在也转移了他的注意力，他小跑着向门口的那位年轻女士跑去，一边走一边慢慢地摇动着尾巴。

‘But where’s my wife then?’ murmured the old man.
“那么我的妻子在哪儿呢？”老人低声问道。

‘I suppose the young lady has left her somewhere: that’s a part of the independence.’
“我想那位年轻女士已经把她留在某个地方了：那是独立的一部分。”

The girl spoke to Ralph, smiling, while she still held up the terrier. ‘Is this your little dog, sir?’
女孩一边微笑着对拉尔夫说话，一边仍然举着小猎犬。 “这是您的小狗吗，先生？”

‘He was mine a moment ago; but you’ve suddenly acquired a remarkable air of property in him.’
“刚才他是我的；但你突然在他身上获得了一种非凡的财产感。

‘Couldn’t we share him?’ asked the girl. ‘He’s such a perfect little darling.’
“我们不能分享他吗？”女孩问道。 “他真是一个完美的小宝贝。”

Ralph looked at her a moment; she was unexpectedly pretty. ‘You may have him altogether,’ he then replied.
拉尔夫看了她一会儿。她出乎意料地漂亮。 “你可以完全拥有他，”他然后回答道。

The young lady seemed to have a great deal of confidence, both in herself and in others; but this abrupt generosity made her blush. ‘I ought to tell you that I’m probably your cousin,’ she brought out, putting down the dog. ‘And here’s another!’ she added quickly, as the collie came up.
这位年轻女士似乎对自己和他人都充满信心。可这突如其来的慷慨却让她脸红了。 “我应该告诉你，我可能是你的表弟，”她放下狗说道。 “这是另一只！”当牧羊犬出现时，她很快补充道。

‘Probably?’ the young man exclaimed, laughing. ‘I supposed it was quite settled! Have you arrived with my mother?
“可能吧？”年轻人笑着喊道。 ‘我以为事情已经解决了！你和我妈妈一起来了吗？

‘Yes, half an hour ago.’
“是的，半小时前。”

‘And has she deposited you and departed again?’
“她把你交给她然后又离开了吗？”

‘No, she went straight to her room, and she told me that, if I should see you, I was to say to you that you must come to her there at a quarter to seven.’
“不，她直接去了她的房间，她告诉我，如果我见到你，我要对你说，你必须在七点一刻到她那儿去。”

The young man looked at his watch. ‘Thank you very much; I shall be punctual.’ And then he looked at his cousin. ‘You’re very welcome here. I’m delighted to see you.’
年轻人看了看手表。 '非常感谢;我会准时的。”然后他看着他的表弟。 ‘这里非常欢迎你。我很高兴见到你。

She was looking at everything, with an eye that denoted clear perception—at her companion, at the two dogs, at the two gentlemen under the trees, at the beautiful scene that surrounded her. ‘I’ve never seen anything so lovely as this place. I’ve been all over the house; it’s too enchanting.’
她用一双清晰的眼睛看着一切——看着她的同伴，看着那两只狗，看着树下的两位绅士，看着她周围的美丽景色。 “我从来没有见过像这个地方这么可爱的地方。我已经走遍了整个房子；太迷人了。

‘I”m sorry you should have been here so long without our knowing it.’
“我很抱歉你在我们不知情的情况下已经在这里呆了这么久。”

‘Your mother told me that in England people arrived very quietly; so I thought it was all right. Is one of those gentlemen your father?’
“你母亲告诉我，在英国，人们来得非常悄悄；所以我觉得没关系。其中一位先生是你的父亲吗？

‘Yes, the elder one—the one sitting down,’ said Ralph.
“是的，年长的——坐下的那个，”拉尔夫说。

The girl gave a laugh. ‘I don’t suppose it’s the other. Who’s the other?’
女孩笑了。 “我不认为是另一个。另一个是谁？

‘He’s a friend of ours—Lord Warburton.’
“他是我们的朋友——沃伯顿勋爵。”

‘Oh, I hoped there would be a lord; it’s just like a novel!’ And then, ‘Oh you adorable creature!’ she suddenly cried, stooping down and picking up the small dog again.
‘哦，我希望有一位领主；就像小说一样！”然后，“噢，你这个可爱的生物！”她突然叫道，弯下腰，再次抱起小狗。

She remained standing where they had met, making no offer to advance or to speak to Mr. Touchett, and while she lingered so near the threshold, slim and charming, her interlocutor wondered if she expected the old man to come and pay her his respects. American girls were used to a great deal of deference, and it had been intimated that this one had a high spirit. Indeed, Ralph could see that in her face.
她仍然站在他们见面的地方，没有主动上前或与图切特先生说话，当她在门口徘徊时，苗条而迷人，她的对话者想知道她是否期望老人来向她致敬。美国女孩已经习惯了高度的顺从，而且有人暗示这个女孩精神抖擞。事实上，拉尔夫可以从她的脸上看出这一点。

‘Won’t you come and make acquaintance with my father?’ he nevertheless ventured to ask. ‘He’s old and infirm—he doesn’t leave his chair.’
“你不想来认识一下我父亲吗？”他还是大胆地问道。 “他又老又弱——他不离开他的椅子。”

‘Ah, poor man, I’m very sorry!’ the girl exclaimed, immediately moving forward. ‘I got the impression from your mother that he was rather—rather intensely active.’
“啊，可怜的人，我很抱歉！”女孩惊呼道，立即向前走去。 “我从你母亲那里得到的印象是，他相当——相当活跃。”

Ralph Touchett was silent a moment. ‘She hasn’t seen him for a year.’
拉尔夫·图切特沉默了一会儿。 “她已经一年没见到他了。”

‘Well, he has a lovely place to sit. Come along, little hound.’
“嗯，他有一个可爱的地方可以坐。来吧，小猎犬。”

‘It’s a dear old place,’ said the young man, looking sidewise at his neighbour.
“这是一个可爱的老地方，”年轻人说，侧身看着他的邻居。

‘What’s his name?’ she asked, her attention having again reverted to the terrier.
“他叫什么名字？”她问道，注意力又回到了小猎犬身上。

‘My father’s name?’
“我父亲的名字？”

‘Yes,’ said the young lady with amusement; ‘but don’t tell him I asked you.
“是的，”年轻女士有趣地说。 “但别告诉他是我问过你的。”

They had come by this time to where old Mr. Touchett was sitting, and he slowly got up from his chair to introduce himself.
这时他们已经来到了老图切特先生坐的地方，他慢慢地从椅子上站起来，介绍自己。

‘My mother has arrived,’ said Ralph, ‘and this is Miss Archer.’
“我妈妈来了，”拉尔夫说，“这是阿切尔小姐。”

The old man placed his two hands on her shoulders, looked at her a moment with extreme benevolence and then gallantly kissed her. ‘It’s a great pleasure to me to see you here; but I wish you had given us a chance to receive you.’
老爷子两只手搭在她的肩膀上，极其仁慈地看了她一会儿，然后殷勤地吻了她。 “我很高兴在这里见到你；但我希望你能给我们一个接待你的机会。

‘Oh, we were received,’ said the girl. ‘There were about a dozen servants in the hall. And there was an old woman curtseying at the gate.’
“哦，我们被接待了，”女孩说。 “大厅里大约有十几个仆人。门口有一位老妇人正在行屈膝礼。

‘We can do better than that—if we have notice!’ And the old man stood there smiling, rubbing his hands and slowly shaking his head at her. ‘But Mrs. Touchett doesn’t like receptions.’
“如果我们注意的话，我们可以做得更好！”老人微笑着站在那里，搓着双手，慢慢地对她摇摇头。 “但是图切特夫人不喜欢招待会。”

‘She went straight to her room.’
“她直接回了自己的房间。”

‘Yes—and locked herself in. She always does that. Well, I suppose I shall see her next week.’ And Mrs. Touchett’s husband slowly resumed his former posture.
“是的——然后把自己锁在里面。她总是这么做。”好吧，我想下周我就能见到她了。”图切特夫人的丈夫慢慢地恢复了原来的姿势。

‘Before that,’ said Miss Archer. ‘She’s coming down to dinner—at eight o’clock. Don’t you forget a quarter to seven,’ she added, turning with a smile to Ralph.
“在那之前，”阿切尔小姐说。 “她要下来吃晚饭——八点钟。你别忘了七点一刻，”她微笑着转向拉尔夫补充道。

‘What’s to happen at a quarter to seven?’
“七点一刻会发生什么？”

‘I’m to see my mother,’ said Ralph.
“我要去见我的母亲，”拉尔夫说。

‘Ah, happy boy!’ the old man commented. ‘You must sit down—you must have some tea,’ he observed to his wife’s niece.
“啊，快乐的孩子！”老人评论道。 “你必须坐下来——你必须喝点茶，”他对妻子的侄女说道。

‘They gave me some tea in my room the moment I got there,’ this young lady answered. ‘I’m sorry you’re out of health,’ she added, resting her eyes upon her venerable host.
“我一到那里，他们就在我的房间里给了我一些茶，”这位年轻女士回答道。 “我很抱歉你身体不好，”她补充道，眼睛落在她尊敬的主人身上。

‘Oh, I’m an old man, my dear; it’s time for me to be old. But I shall be the better for having you here.’
“噢，亲爱的，我已经是个老人了；我也到了变老的时候了。但有你在，我会变得更好。”

She had been looking all round her again—at the lawn, the great trees, the reedy, silvery Thames, the beautiful old house; and while engaged in this survey she had made room in it for her companions; a comprehensiveness of observation easily conceivable on the part of a young woman who was evidently both intelligent and excited. She had seated herself and had put away the little dog; her white hands, in her lap, were folded upon her black dress; her head was erect, her eye lighted, her flexible figure turned itself easily this way and that, in sympathy with the alertness with which she evidently caught impressions. Her impressions were numerous, and they were all reflected in a clear, still smile. ‘I’ve never seen anything so beautiful as this.’
她再次环顾四周——草坪、参天大树、芦苇丛生、银色的泰晤士河、美丽的老房子；在进行这项调查时，她为她的同伴腾出了空间。对于一位显然既聪明又兴奋的年轻女子来说，观察的全面性是很容易想象的。她坐下来，把小狗收了起来。她苍白的双手放在膝上，叠在黑色的裙子上。她的头挺直，眼睛闪闪发亮，她灵活的身材很容易左右转动，这与她显然捕捉印象的机敏相一致。她的印象有很多，都反映在清晰、平静的微笑中。 “我从来没有见过如此美丽的东西。”

‘It’s looking very well,’ said Mr. Touchett. ‘I know the way it strikes you. I’ve been through all that. But you’re very beautiful yourself,’ he added with a politeness by no means crudely jocular and with the happy consciousness that his advanced age gave him the privilege of saying such things—even to young persons who might possibly take alarm at them.
“看起来非常好，”图切特先生说。 “我知道它对你的打击。我经历过这一切。但你自己也很漂亮。”他礼貌地补充道，语气中绝不是粗俗的玩笑，他很高兴地意识到，他的高龄让他有幸说出这样的话——即使是对那些可能会感到震惊的年轻人。

What degree of alarm this young person took need not be exactly measured; she instantly rose, however, with a blush which was not a refutation. ‘Oh yes, of course I’m lovely!’ she returned with a quick laugh. ‘How old is your house? Is it Elizabethan?’
这个年轻人的惊慌程度无需精确衡量；然而她立刻站了起来，脸红了，这并不是在反驳。 “哦，是的，我当然很可爱！”她笑着回答道。 ‘你的房子有多少年了？是伊丽莎白时代的吗？

‘It’s early Tudor,’ said Ralph Touchett.
“这是都铎王朝早期，”拉尔夫·图切特说。

She turned toward him, watching his face. ‘Early Tudor? How very delightful! And I suppose there are a great many others.’
她转向他，看着他的脸。 “都铎早期？多么令人愉快啊！我想还有很多其他的。

‘There are many much better ones.’
“还有很多更好的。”

‘Don’t say that, my son!’ the old man protested. ‘There’s nothing better than this.’
“别这么说，我的孩子！”老人抗议道。 “没有什么比这更好的了。”

‘I’ve got a very good one; I think in some respects it’s rather better,’ said Lord Warburton, who as yet had not spoken, but who had kept an attentive eye upon Miss Archer. He slightly inclined himself, smiling; he had an excellent manner with women. The girl appreciated it in an instant; she had not forgotten that this was Lord Warburton. ‘I should like very much to show it to you,’ he added.
“我有一个很好的；我认为从某些方面来说，这样更好。”沃伯顿勋爵说道，他还没有说话，但一直密切关注着阿切尔小姐。他微微侧身，微笑着。他对女人很有礼貌。女孩立刻赞赏起来；她没有忘记这是沃伯顿勋爵。 “我非常想向你展示它，”他补充道。

‘Don’t believe him,’ cried the old man; ‘don’t look at it! It’s a wretched old barrack—not to be compared with this.’
“别相信他，”老人喊道。 ‘别看它！这是一个破旧的军营——不能与这个相比。”

‘I don’t know—I can’t judge,’ said the girl, smiling at Lord Warburton.
“我不知道——我无法判断，”女孩微笑着对沃伯顿勋爵说道。

In this discussion Ralph Touchett took no interest whatever; he stood with his hands in his pockets, looking greatly as if he should like to renew his conversation with his new-found cousin. ‘Are you very fond of dogs?’ he enquired by way of beginning. He seemed to recognize that it was an awkward beginning for a clever man.
拉尔夫·图切特对这次讨论毫无兴趣。他双手插在口袋里站着，看上去很高兴，好像他想和他新认识的表弟重新开始谈话。 “你很喜欢狗吗？”他一开始就问道。他似乎意识到，对于一个聪明人来说，这是一个尴尬的开始。

‘Very fond of them indeed.’
“确实非常喜欢它们。”

‘You must keep the terrier, you know,’ he went on, still awkwardly.
“你必须保留那只猎犬，你知道，”他继续说道，语气仍然很尴尬。

‘I’ll keep him while I’m here, with pleasure.’
“当我在这里的时候，我会很高兴地留下他。”

‘That will be for a long time, I hope.’
“我希望这会持续很长一段时间。”

‘You’re very kind. I hardly know. My aunt must settle that.’
'你好亲切。我几乎不知道。我姨妈必须解决这个问题。

‘I’ll settle it with her—at a quarter to seven.’ And Ralph looked at his watch again.
“我会和她解决的——七点一刻。”拉尔夫又看了看手表。

‘I’m glad to be here at all,’ said the girl.
“我很高兴来到这里，”女孩说。

‘I don’t believe you allow things to be settled for you.’
“我不相信你会让事情为你解决。”

‘Oh yes; if they’re settled as I like them.’
'哦是的;如果他们按照我喜欢的方式解决的话。

‘I shall settle this as I like it,’ said Ralph. ‘It’s most unaccountable that we should never have known you.’
“我会按照我喜欢的方式解决这件事，”拉尔夫说。 “我们根本不应该认识你，这是最不负责任的。”

‘I was there—you had only to come and see me.’
“我就在那里——你只要来看我就行了。”

‘There? Where do you mean?’
'那里？你指的是哪里？

‘In the United States: in New York and Albany and other American places.’
“在美国：在纽约、奥尔巴尼和美国其他地方。”

‘I’ve been there—all over, but I never saw you. I can’t make it out.’
“我去过那里——到处都是，但我从未见过你。我听不懂。

Miss Archer just hesitated. ‘It was because there had been some disagreement between your mother and my father, after my mother’s death, which took place when I was a child. In consequence of it we never expected to see you.’
阿切尔小姐只是犹豫了一下。 ‘那是因为我小时候，我母亲去世后，你母亲和我父亲之间发生了一些分歧。因此，我们从来没有想到会见到你。

‘Ah, but I don’t embrace all my mother’s quarrels—heaven forbid!’ the young man cried. ‘You’ve lately lost your father?’ he went on more gravely.
“啊，但我不会接受我母亲所有的争吵——但愿不会！”年轻人哭道。 “你最近失去了你的父亲？”他更加严肃地继续说道。

‘Yes, more than a year ago. After that my aunt was very kind to me; she came to see me and proposed that I should come with her to Europe.’
“是的，一年多前了。从那以后，姨妈对我很好；她来看我并提议我应该和她一起去欧洲。

‘I see,’ said Ralph. ‘She has adopted you.’
“我明白了，”拉尔夫说。 “她收养了你。”

‘Adopted me?’ The girl stared, and her blush came back to her, together with a momentary look of pain which gave her interlocutor some alarm. He had underestimated the effect of his words. Lord Warburton, who appeared constantly desirous of a nearer view of Miss Archer, strolled toward the two cousins at the moment, and as he did so she rested her wider eyes on him. ‘Oh no; she has not adopted me. I’m not a candidate for adoption.’
“收养了我？”女孩瞪大了眼睛，脸红了，还有一瞬间的痛苦表情，让对话者有些惊慌。他低估了自己这句话的效果。沃伯顿勋爵似乎总是想更近距离地观察阿切尔小姐，此刻他向两位表兄弟走来，当他这样做时，她睁大了眼睛看着他。 '不好了;她没有收养我。我不是收养的候选人。

‘I beg a thousand pardons,’ Ralph murmured. ‘I meant—I meant-’ He hardly knew what he meant.
“我请求一千个原谅，”拉尔夫低声说道。 “我的意思是——我的意思是——”他几乎不知道自己的意思。

‘You meant she has taken me up. Yes; she likes to take people up. She has been very kind to me; but,’ she added with a certain visible eagerness of desire to be explicit, ‘I’m very fond of my liberty.’
“你的意思是她已经接纳了我。是的;她喜欢带人上去。她对我很好；但是，”她带着某种明显的渴望公开的态度补充道，“我非常喜欢我的自由。”

‘Are you talking about Mrs. Touchett?’ the old man called out from his chair. ‘Come here, my dear, and tell me about her. I’m always thankful for information.’
“你是在说图切特夫人吗？”老人从椅子上喊道。 “过来，亲爱的，告诉我关于她的事。我总是感谢您提供信息。

The girl hesitated again, smiling. ‘She’s really very benevolent,’ she answered; after which she went over to her uncle, whose mirth was excited by her words.
女孩再次犹豫，微笑着。 “她真的很仁慈，”她回答道。然后她走到她叔叔那里，她的话使他的叔叔高兴起来。

Lord Warburton was left standing with Ralph Touchett, to whom in a moment he said: ‘You wished a while ago to see my idea of an interesting woman. There it is!’
沃伯顿勋爵和拉尔夫·图切特站在一起，他立刻对拉尔夫·图切特说道：“你不久前希望看看我对一个有趣女人的看法。就在那里！

Chapter 3
第3章

Mrs. Touchett was certainly a person of many oddities, of which her behaviour on returning to her husband’s house after many months was a noticeable specimen. She had her own way of doing all that she did, and this is the simplest description of a character which, although by no means without liberal motions, rarely succeeded in giving an impression of suavity. Mrs. Touchett might do a great deal of good, but she never pleased. This way of her own, of which she was so fond, was not intrinsically offensive—it was just unmistakeably distinguished from the ways of others. The edges of her conduct were so very clear-cut that for susceptible persons it sometimes had a knife-like effect. That hard fineness came out in her deportment during the first hours of her return from America, under circumstances in which it might have seemed that her first act would have been to exchange greetings with her husband and son. Mrs. Touchett, for reasons which she deemed excellent, always retired on such occasions into impenetrable seclusion, postponing the more sentimental ceremony until she had repaired the disorder of dress with a completeness which had the less reason to be of high importance as neither beauty nor vanity were concerned in it. She was a plain-faced old woman, without graces and without any great elegance, but with an extreme respect for her own motives. She was usually prepared to explain these—when the explanation was asked as a favour; and in such a case they proved totally different from those that had been attributed to her. She was virtually separated from her husband, but she appeared to perceive nothing irregular in the situation. It had become clear, at an early stage of their community, that they should never desire the same thing at the same moment, and this appearance had prompted her to rescue disagreement from the vulgar realm of accident. She did what she could to erect it into a law—a much more edifying aspect of it—by going to live in Florence, where she bought a house and established herself; and by leaving her husband to take care of the English branch of his bank. This arrangement greatly pleased her; it was so felicitously definite. It struck her husband in the same light, in a foggy square in London, where it was at times the most definite fact he discerned; but he would have preferred that such unnatural things should have a greater vagueness. To agree to disagree had cost him an effort; he was ready to agree to almost anything but that, and saw no reason why either assent or dissent should be so terribly consistent. Mrs. Touchett indulged in no regrets nor speculations, and usually came once a year to spend a month with her husband, a period during which she apparently took pains to convince him that she had adopted the right system. She was not fond of the English style of life, and had three or four reasons for it to which she currently alluded; they bore upon minor points of that ancient order, but for Mrs. Touchett they amply justified non-residence. She detested bread-sauce, which, as she said, looked like a poultice and tasted like soap; she objected to the consumption of beer by her maid-servants; and she affirmed that the British laundress (Mrs. Touchett was very particular about the appearance of her linen) was not a mistress of her art. At fixed intervals she paid a visit to her own country; but this last had been longer than any of its predecessors.
塔切特夫人确实是一个有很多怪癖的人，几个月后回到丈夫家时她的行为就是一个引人注目的例子。她做每件事都有自己的方式，这是对这个角色最简单的描述，虽然绝不是没有自由的动作，但很少成功地给人留下温文尔雅的印象。塔切特夫人可能做了很多好事，但她从来不高兴。她如此喜欢自己的这种方式，本质上并不令人反感——它只是与其他人的方式毫无疑问地区别开来。她的行为的棱角是如此的明显，以至于对于易受影响的人来说，有时会产生像刀子一样的效果。从美国回来的头几个小时里，她的举止就体现出了这种严厉的优雅，在这种情况下，她的第一件事似乎就是与丈夫和儿子互相问候。杜切特夫人，出于她认为很好的原因，总是在这种场合隐退到难以逾越的隐居处，推迟更多感伤的仪式，直到她完全修复了衣着的混乱，这没有理由因为既不美丽也不重要。虚荣心与此有关。她是一位相貌平淡的老妇人，没有任何风度，也没有任何优雅的气质，但对自己的动机却极其尊重。她通常准备好解释这些——当有人要求解释是为了帮忙时；在这种情况下，事实证明它们与那些归因于她的东西完全不同。她实际上与丈夫分开了，但她似乎没有察觉到情况有任何异常。 在他们社区的早期阶段，很明显，他们永远不应该在同一时刻渴望同一件事，而这种出现促使她将分歧从庸俗的意外领域中拯救出来。她尽其所能将其制定为法律——这是它更具启发性的方面——她去了佛罗伦萨生活，在那里买了房子并建立了自己的地位；并让她的丈夫去打理他银行的英国分行。这个安排让她非常高兴。这是非常明确的。在伦敦一个雾蒙蒙的广场上，她的丈夫也有同样的想法，有时这是他所看到的最明确的事实；但他更希望这种不自然的事情更加模糊。同意不同意见需要他付出努力。除了这一点之外，他几乎愿意同意任何事情，并且认为没有理由同意或反对应该如此一致。塔切特夫人没有后悔，也没有猜测，通常每年来一次，与丈夫共度一个月，在此期间，她显然煞费苦心地让他相信她采用了正确的制度。她不喜欢英国的生活方式，她目前提到的有三四个原因；它们与古老秩序的次要问题有关，但对图切特夫人来说，它们充分证明了不居住的合理性。她讨厌面包酱，正如她所说，面包酱看起来像药膏，尝起来像肥皂。她反对女仆喝啤酒。她断言英国洗衣女工（图切特夫人对亚麻布的外观非常挑剔）并不是她艺术的情妇。她每隔一段时间就会回访自己的国家。但最后一次的时间比之前的任何一次都要长。

She had taken up her niece—there was little doubt of that. One wet afternoon, some four months earlier than the occurrence lately narrated, this young lady had been seated alone with a book. To say she was so occupied is to say that her solitude did not press upon her; for her love of knowledge had a fertilizing quality and her imagination was strong. There was at this time, however, a want of fresh taste in her situation which the arrival of an unexpected visitor did much to correct. The visitor had not been announced; the girl heard her at last walking about the adjoining room. It was in an old house at Albany, a large, square, double house, with a notice of sale in the windows of one of the lower apartments. There were two entrances, one of which had long been out of use but had never been removed. They were exactly alike—large white doors, with an arched frame and wide side-lights, perched upon little ‘stoops’ of red stone, which descended sidewise to the brick pavement of the street. The two houses together formed a single dwelling, the party-wall having been removed and the rooms placed in communication. These rooms, above-stairs, were extremely numerous, and were painted all over exactly alike, in a yellowish white which had grown sallow with time. On the third floor there was a sort of arched passage, connecting the two sides of the house, which Isabel and her sisters used in their childhood to call the tunnel and which, though it was short and well-lighted, always seemed to the girl to be strange and lonely, especially on winter afternoons. She had been in the house, at different periods, as a child; in those days her grandmother lived there. Then there had been an absence of ten years, followed by a return to Albany before her father’s death. Her grandmother, old Mrs. Archer, had exercised, chiefly within the limits of the family, a large hospitality in the early period, and the little girls often spent weeks under her roof—weeks of which Isabel had the happiest memory. The manner of life was different from that of her own homelarger, more plentiful, practically more festal; the discipline of the nursery was delightfully vague and the opportunity of listening to the conversation of one’s elders (which with Isabel was a highly-valued pleasure) almost unbounded. There was a constant coming and going; her grandmother’s sons and daughters and their children appeared to be in the enjoyment of standing invitations to arrive and remain, so that the house offered to a certain extent the appearance of a bustling provincial inn kept by a gentle old landlady who sighed a great deal and never presented a bill.
她带着她的侄女——这是毫无疑问的。一个潮湿的下午，比最近叙述的事件早了大约四个月，这位年轻的女士独自坐在一本书上。说她如此忙碌，就是说她的孤独并没有压在她身上；因为她对知识的热爱具有丰富的品质，而且她的想象力也很丰富。然而，此时她的处境缺乏新鲜感，一位不速之客的到来大大纠正了她的处境。访客尚未被宣布；女孩终于听到她在隔壁房间里走来走去。那是在奥尔巴尼的一栋老房子里，一栋大的方形双层房子，其中一间较低层公寓的窗户上贴着出售通知。有两个入口，其中一个早已闲置，但从未拆除。它们一模一样——白色的大门，带有拱形框架和宽大的侧灯，坐落在红色石头的小“门廊”上，这些门廊横向延伸到街道的砖砌人行道上。这两栋房子一起形成了一个住宅，隔墙已被拆除，房间之间连通。楼上的这些房间数量极多，而且全部漆成一模一样的颜色，都是黄白色，随着时间的推移，颜色变得发黄。三楼有一条拱形通道，连接着房子的两侧，伊莎贝尔和她的姐妹们在童年时将其称为隧道，尽管它很短且光线充足，但在女孩看来，它总是像隧道一样。感到陌生和孤独，尤其是在冬天的下午。当她还是个孩子的时候，她在不同的时期都曾在这所房子里呆过。那时她的祖母住在那里。之后，她离开了十年，在她父亲去世前回到了奥尔巴尼。 她的祖母，老阿切尔夫人，在早期主要是在家庭范围内，非常热情好客，小女孩们经常在她的屋檐下度过数周——其中的数周是伊莎贝尔最快乐的记忆。生活方式与她自己的家不同，她家更大，更丰富，实际上更节日。托儿所的纪律非常模糊，聆听长辈谈话的机会几乎是无限的（这对伊莎贝尔来说是一种非常宝贵的乐趣）。人来人往，人来人往。她祖母的儿子、女儿和他们的孩子们似乎很享受长期邀请来访和留下来，因此这栋房子在某种程度上看起来像一家繁华的省级客栈，由一位温柔的老女房东经营，她叹了口气，从未提出过账单。

Isabel of course knew nothing about bills; but even as a child she thought her grandmother’s home romantic. There was a covered piazza behind it, furnished with a swing which was a source of tremulous interest; and beyond this was a long garden, sloping down to the stable and containing peach-trees of barely credible familiarity. Isabel had stayed with her grandmother at various seasons, but somehow all her visits had a flavour of peaches. On the other side, across the street, was an old house that was called the Dutch House—a peculiar structure dating from the earliest colonial time, composed of bricks that had been painted yellow, crowned with a gable that was pointed out to strangers, defended by a rickety wooden paling and standing sidewise to the street. It was occupied by a primary school for children of both sexes, kept or rather let go, by a demonstrative lady of whom Isabel’s chief recollection was that her hair was fastened with strange bedroomy combs at the temples and that she was the widow of some one of consequence. The little girl had been offered the opportunity of laying a foundation of knowledge in this establishment; but having spent a single day in it, she had protested against its laws and had been allowed to stay at home, where, in the September days, when the windows of the Dutch House were open, she used to hear the hum of childish voices repeating the multiplication-table—an incident in which the elation of liberty and the pain of exclusion were indistinguishably mingled. The foundation of her knowledge was really laid in the idleness of her grandmother’s house, where, as most of the other inmates were not reading people, she had uncontrolled use of a library full of books with frontispieces, which she used to climb upon a chair to take down. When she had found one to her taste—she was guided in the selection chiefly by the frontispiece—she carried it into a mysterious apartment which lay beyond the library and which was called, traditionally, no one knew why, the office. Whose office it had been and at what period it had flourished, she never learned; it was enough for her that it contained an echo and a pleasant musty smell and that it was a chamber of disgrace for old pieces of furniture whose infirmities were not always apparent (so that the disgrace seemed unmerited and rendered them victims of injustice) and with which, in the manner of children, she had established relations almost human, certainly dramatic. There was an old haircloth sofa in especial, to which she had confided a hundred childish sorrows. The place owed much of its mysterious melancholy to the fact that it was properly entered from the second door of the house, the door that had been condemned, and that it was secured by bolts which a particularly slender little girl found it impossible to slide. She knew that this silent, motionless portal opened into the street; if the sidelights had not been filled with green paper she might have looked out upon the little brown stoop and the well-worn brick pavement. But she had no wish to look out, for this would have interfered with her theory that there was a strange, unseen place on the other side—a place which became to the child’s imagination, according to its different moods, a region of delight of terror.
伊莎贝尔当然对账单一无所知。但当她还是个孩子的时候，她就觉得祖母的家很浪漫。后面有一个有顶棚的广场，上面摆着秋千，让人产生了不寒而栗的兴趣。再往前是一座长长的花园，一直延伸到马厩，里面种着桃树，让人难以置信。伊莎贝尔在不同的季节和她的祖母住在一起，但不知何故，她的所有访问都带有桃子的味道。街对面有一座老房子，名叫“荷兰屋”——这座奇特的建筑可以追溯到最早的殖民时代，由漆成黄色的砖块组成，顶部有一个山墙，可以向陌生人指出，由摇摇欲坠的木栅栏保护，并站在街道旁边。它被一所男女儿童小学占据，被一位外向的女士保留或放弃，伊莎贝尔对她的主要记忆是，她的头发用奇怪的卧室梳子固定在太阳穴上，她是某个人的遗孀。结果。小女孩有机会在这个机构打下知识基础。但在里面呆了一天后，她抗议了那里的法律，并被允许留在家里，在九月的日子里，当荷兰之家的窗户打开时，她常常听到孩子们的嗡嗡声重复乘法表——在这一事件中，自由的喜悦和被排斥的痛苦毫无区别地混合在一起。她的知识基础实际上是在她祖母家的闲置中奠定的，在那里，由于大多数其他囚犯都不读书，她可以不受控制地使用图书馆，里面装满了带有卷首插图的书籍，她常常把这些书籍爬到椅子上取下来。 当她找到一本合自己口味的书时——她主要根据卷首插图进行选择——她把它带进图书馆对面的一间神秘公寓，传统上，没有人知道为什么，它被称为办公室。她不知道这间办公室是谁的，又在什么时期兴盛起来。对她来说，这已经足够了，它包含着回声和令人愉悦的霉味，而且这是一个对旧家具的耻辱，这些旧家具的缺陷并不总是显而易见的（因此，这种耻辱似乎是不值得的，并使它们成为不公正的受害者）。她以孩子的方式建立了近乎人类的关系，当然是戏剧性的。特别是一张旧毛布沙发，她曾向它吐露过一百个幼稚的悲伤。这个地方的神秘忧郁很大程度上归因于这样一个事实：它是从房子的第二扇门正确进入的，那扇门已经被谴责了，而且它是用螺栓固定的，一个特别苗条的小女孩发现无法滑动这些螺栓。她知道这个安静、一动不动的大门通向街道。如果侧灯没有贴满绿纸，她可能会看到外面那个棕色的小门廊和破旧的砖砌人行道。但她不想往外看，因为这会干扰她的理论，即另一边有一个奇怪的、看不见的地方——这个地方根据孩子不同的心情，变成了孩子想象中的快乐之地。恐怖。

It was in the ‘office’ still that Isabel was sitting on that melancholy afternoon of early spring which I have just mentioned. At this time she might have had the whole house to choose from, and the room she had selected was the most depressed of its scenes. She had never opened the bolted door nor removed the green paper (renewed by other hands) from its sidelights; she had never assured herself that the vulgar street lay beyond. A crude, cold rain fell heavily; the spring-time was indeed an appeal—and it seemed a cynical, insincere appeal—to patience. Isabel, however, gave as little heed as possible to cosmic treacheries; she kept her eyes on her book and tried to fix her mind. It had lately occurred to her that her mind was a good deal of a vagabond, and she had spent much ingenuity in training it to a military step and teaching it to advance, to halt, to retreat, to perform even more complicated manoeuvres, at the word of command. Just now she had given it marching orders and it had been trudging over the sandy plains of a history of German Thought. Suddenly she became aware of a step very different from her own intellectual pace; she listened a little and perceived that some one was moving in the library, which communicated with the office. It struck her first as the step of a person from whom she was looking for a visit, then almost immediately announced itself as the tread of a woman and a stranger—her possible visitor being neither. It had an inquisitive, experimental quality which suggested that it would not stop short of the threshold of the office; and in fact the doorway of this apartment was presently occupied by a lady who paused there and looked very hard at our heroine. She was a plain, elderly woman, dressed in a comprehensive waterproof mantle; she had a face with a good deal of rather violent point.
在我刚才提到的早春那个忧郁的下午，伊莎贝尔仍然坐在“办公室”里。这个时候她可能就可以选择整栋房子了，而她选择的房间却是其中最压抑的一个场景。她从未打开过那扇用螺栓锁住的门，也从未取下过侧窗上的绿纸（由其他人更新）；她从未确信那条粗俗的街道就在远处。一场冰冷的大雨倾盆而下；春天确实是一种对耐心的呼吁——而且似乎是一种愤世嫉俗、虚伪的呼吁。然而，伊莎贝尔对宇宙的背叛却尽可能不放在心上。她一直盯着书本，努力调整自己的心态。她最近突然意识到，她的头脑是个流浪汉，她花了很多聪明才智将它训练成军事步调，教它前进、停止、后退，甚至进行更复杂的动作，命令之词。刚才她给它下达了行军命令，它正在德国思想史的沙质平原上艰难前行。突然，她意识到一个与她自己的智力步伐截然不同的步伐；她稍微听了一下，发现图书馆里有人在走动，图书馆与办公室有联系。她首先感到这是一个她正在寻找拜访的人的脚步声，然后几乎立即宣布这是一个女人和一个陌生人的脚步声——她可能的访客两者都不是。它具有一种好奇的、实验性的品质，这表明它不会在办公室的门槛前停下来。事实上，这间公寓的门口现在被一位女士占据了，她停在那里，认真地看着我们的女主人公。 她是一位相貌平平的老妇人，穿着一件防水的斗篷。她的脸充​​满了相当暴力的倾向。

‘Oh,’ she began, ‘is that where you usually sit?’ She looked about at the heterogeneous chairs and tables.
“哦，”她开始说道，“那是你通常坐的地方吗？”她环顾四周，看到了各种各样的椅子和桌子。

‘Not when I have visitors,’ said Isabel, getting up to receive the intruder.
“当我有访客时就不会，”伊莎贝尔说，站起来迎接入侵者。

She directed their course back to the library while the visitor continued to look about her. ‘You seem to have plenty of other rooms; they’re in rather better condition. But everything’s immensely worn.’
她引导他们返回图书馆，而访客则继续环顾四周。 “你们似乎还有很多其他房间；他们的状况相当好。但一切都非常破旧了。”

‘Have you come to look at the house?’ Isabel asked. ‘The servant will show it to you.’
“你是来看房子的吗？”伊莎贝尔问。 “仆人会给你看的。”

‘Send her away; I don’t want to buy it. She has probably gone to look for you and is wandering about upstairs; she didn’t seem at all intelligent. You had better tell her it’s no matter.’ And then, since the girl stood there hesitating and wondering, this unexpected critic said to her abruptly: ‘I suppose you’re one of the daughters?’
‘把她送走；我不想买。她可能去找你了，正在楼上闲逛；她看上去一点也不聪明。你最好告诉她没关系。”然后，由于女孩站在那里犹豫不决，感到疑惑，这个意想不到的批评者突然对她说：“我想你是女儿之一？”

Isabel thought she had very strange manners. ‘It depends upon whose daughters you mean.’
伊莎贝尔觉得她的举止很奇怪。 “这取决于你指的是谁的女儿。”

‘The late Mr. Archer’s—and my poor sister’s.’
“已故的阿切尔先生的——还有我可怜的妹妹的。”

‘Ah,’ said Isabel slowly, ‘you must be our crazy Aunt Lydia!’
“啊，”伊莎贝尔慢慢地说，“你一定是我们疯狂的莉迪亚姨妈！”

‘Is that what your father told you to call me? I’m your Aunt Lydia, but I’m not at all crazy: I haven’t a delusion! And which of the daughters are you?’
‘这就是你父亲让你这么称呼我的吗？我是你的莉迪亚阿姨，但我一点也不疯狂：我没有妄想！你是哪个女儿？

‘I’m the youngest of the three, and my name’s Isabel.’
“我是三个人中最小的一个，我的名字叫伊莎贝尔。”

‘Yes; the others are Lilian and Edith. And are you the prettiest?’
'是的;其他人是莉莉安和伊迪丝。你是最漂亮的吗？

‘I haven’t the least idea,’ said the girl.
“我一点也不知道，”女孩说。

‘I think you must be.’ And in this way the aunt and the niece made friends. The aunt had quarrelled years before with her brother-in-law, after the death of her sister, taking him to task for the manner in which he brought up his three girls. Being a high-tempered man he had requested her to mind her own business, and she had taken him at his word. For many years she held no communication with him and after his death had addressed not a word to his daughters, who had been bred in that disrespectful view of her which we have just seen Isabel betray. Mrs. Touchett’s behaviour was, as usual, perfectly deliberate. She intended to go to America to look after her investments (with which her husband, in spite of his great financial position, had nothing to do) and would take advantage of this opportunity to enquire into the condition of her nieces. There was no need of writing, for she should attach no importance to any account of them she should elicit by letter; she believed, always, in seeing for one’s self. Isabel found, however, that she knew a good deal about them, and knew about the marriage of the two elder girls; knew that their poor father had left very little money, but that the house in Albany, which had passed into his hands, was to be sold for their benefit; knew, finally, that Edmund Ludlow, Lilian’s husband, had taken upon himself to attend to this matter, in consideration of which the young couple, who had come to Albany during Mr. Archer’s illness, were remaining there for the present and, as well as Isabel herself, occupying the old place.
“我想你一定是。”就这样，阿姨和侄女成了朋友。多年前，姐姐去世后，姨妈就与姐夫发生了争吵，指责他抚养三个女儿的方式。作为一个脾气暴躁的人，他要求她管好自己的事，她听了他的话。多年来，她与他没有任何联系，在他去世后，她也没有对他的女儿们说过一句话，她们是在对她不尊重的态度中长大的，我们刚刚看到伊莎贝尔背叛了这一点。和往常一样，图切特夫人的行为完全是经过深思熟虑的。她打算去美国照顾她的投资（她的丈夫尽管经济状况很好，但与她无关），并想借此机会打听一下她侄女们的情况。没有必要写信，因为她不应该重视她通过信件获得的任何关于他们的叙述。她始终相信，要亲自去看。然而，伊莎贝尔发现她对她们了解很多，并且知道两个大女儿的婚姻。知道他们可怜的父亲留下的钱所剩无几，但奥尔巴尼的房子已经转入他的手中，为了他们的利益，必须卖掉。最后，我知道莉莲的丈夫埃德蒙·勒德洛已经亲自处理了这件事，考虑到这对在阿切尔先生生病期间来到奥尔巴尼的年轻夫妇，目前也留在那里。就像伊莎贝尔本人一样，占据了原来的位置。

‘How much money do you expect for it?’ Mrs. Touchett asked of her companion, who had brought her to sit in the front parlour, which she had inspected without enthusiasm.
“你预计要花多少钱？”图切特太太问她的同伴，他带她坐在前厅，她毫无热情地参观了前厅。

‘I haven’t the least idea,’ said the girl.
“我一点也不知道，”女孩说。

‘That’s the second time you have said that to me,’ her aunt rejoined. ‘And yet you don’t look at all stupid.’
“这是你第二次对我这么说，”她姨妈回答道。 “但你看起来一点也不傻。”

‘I’m not stupid; but I don’t know anything about money.’
'我不傻;但我对钱一无所知。

‘Yes, that’s the way you were brought up—as if you were to inherit a million. What have you in point of fact inherited?’
“是的，你就是这样长大的——就好像你要继承一百万一样。你实际上继承了什么？

‘I really can’t tell you. You must ask Edmund and Lilian; they’ll be back in half an hour.’
‘我真的不能告诉你。你必须问埃德蒙和莉莲；他们半小时后就会回来。”

‘In Florence we should call it a very bad house,’ said Mrs. Touchett; ‘but here, I dare say, it will bring a high price. It ought to make a considerable sum for each of you. In addition to that you must have something else; it’s most extraordinary your not knowing. The position’s of value, and they’ll probably pull it down and make a row of shops. I wonder you don’t do that yourself; you might let the shops to great advantage.’
“在佛罗伦萨，我们应该称它为一所非常糟糕的房子，”图切特太太说； “但在这里，我敢说，这会带来高昂的代价。这对你们每个人来说应该是一笔可观的钱。除此之外，你还必须有别的东西；你不知道才是最不寻常的。这个位置很有价值，他们可能会把它拆掉并建一排商店。我想知道你自己不这样做吗？你可能会让商店获得很大的优势。

Isabel stared; the idea of letting shops was new to her. ‘I hope they won’t pull it down,’ she said; ‘I’m extremely fond of it.’
伊莎贝尔凝视着；出租商店的想法对她来说是新的。 “我希望他们不会把它拆掉，”她说。 “我非常喜欢它。”

‘I don’t see what makes you fond of it; your father died here.’
“我不明白是什么让你喜欢它；你父亲死在这里。”

‘Yes, but I don’t dislike it for that,’ the girl rather strangely returned. ‘I like places in which things have happened—even if they’re sad things. A great many people have died here; the place has been full of life.’
“是的，但我并不因此不喜欢它，”女孩相当奇怪地回答道。 “我喜欢发生过事情的地方——即使是悲伤的事情。很多人死在这里；这个地方充满了生机。

‘Is that what you call being full of life?’
“这就是你所说的充满生机吗？”

‘I mean full of experience—of people’s feelings and sorrows. And not of their sorrows only, for I’ve been very happy here as a child.’
“我的意思是充满经验——充满人们的感受和悲伤。不仅仅是他们的悲伤，因为我小时候在这里过得很开心。

‘You should go to Florence if you like houses in which things have happened—especially deaths. I live in an old palace in which three people have been murdered; three that were known and I don’t know how many more besides.’
“如果你喜欢那些发生过事情——尤其是死亡——的房子，你应该去佛罗伦萨。我住在一座古老的宫殿里，里面有三个人被谋杀了；三个是已知的，我不知道还有多少。”

‘In an old palace?’ Isabel repeated.
“在一座古老的宫殿里？”伊莎贝尔重复道。

‘Yes, my dear; a very different affair from this. This is very bourgeois.’
'是的亲爱的;与此完全不同的事情。这是非常资产阶级的。

Isabel felt some emotion, for she had always thought highly of her grandmother’s house. But the emotion was of a kind which led her to say: ‘I should like very much to go to Florence.’
伊莎贝尔有些感慨，因为她一直很看重祖母的房子。但这种情感让她说：“我非常想去佛罗伦萨。”

‘Well, if you’ll be very good, and do everything I tell you I’ll take you there,’ Mrs. Touchett declared.
“好吧，如果你表现得很好，并且按照我告诉你的去做，我就带你去那里，”图切特夫人宣称。

Our young woman’s emotion deepened; she flushed a little and smiled at her aunt in silence. ‘Do everything you tell me? I don’t think I can promise that.’
我们年轻女子的感情更加深厚了；她脸红了一点，默默地对姨妈笑了笑。 ‘你告诉我的一切都做吗？我想我不能保证这一点。

‘No, you don’t look like a person of that sort. You’re fond of your own way; but it’s not for me to blame you.’
「不，你看起来不像那样的人。」你喜欢按自己的方式行事；但我不该责怪你。”

‘And yet, to go to Florence,’ the girl exclaimed in a moment, ‘I’d promise almost anything!’
“然而，为了去佛罗伦萨，”女孩立刻惊呼道，“我几乎可以答应任何事情！”

Edmund and Lilian were slow to return, and Mrs. Touchett had an hour’s uninterrupted talk with her niece, who found her a strange and interesting figure: a figure essentially—almost the first she had ever met. She was as eccentric as Isabel had always supposed; and hitherto, whenever the girl had heard people described as eccentric, she had thought of them as offensive or alarming. The term had always suggested to her something grotesque and even sinister. But her aunt made it a matter of high but easy irony, or comedy, and led her to ask herself if the common tone, which was all she had known, had ever been as interesting. No one certainly had on any occasion so held her as this little thin-lipped, bright-eyed, foreign-looking woman, who retrieved an insignificant appearance by a distinguished manner and, sitting there in a well-worn waterproof, talked with striking familiarity of the courts of Europe. There was nothing flighty about Mrs. Touchett, but she recognized no social superiors, and, judging the great ones of the earth in a way that spoke of this, enjoyed the consciousness of making an impression on a candid and susceptible mind. Isabel at first had answered a good many questions, and it was from her answers apparently that Mrs. Touchett derived a high opinion of her intelligence. But after this she had asked a good many, and her aunt’s answers, whatever turn they took, struck her as food for deep reflexion. Mrs. Touchett waited for the return of her other niece as long as she thought reasonable, but as at six o’clock Mrs. Ludlow bad not come in she prepared to take her departure.
埃德蒙和莉莲迟迟没有回来，图切特夫人与她的侄女进行了一个小时不间断的交谈，她的侄女发现她是一个奇怪而有趣的人物：本质上是一个人物——几乎是她第一次见到。她就像伊莎贝尔一直以为的那样古怪。到目前为止，每当女孩听到人们被描述为古怪的人时，她都会认为他们是令人反感的或令人震惊的。这个词总是让她联想到一些怪诞甚至险恶的东西。但她的姨妈把这件事变成了一种高度但轻松的讽刺或喜剧，并让她问自己，她所知道的共同语气是否曾经那么有趣。肯定没有人在任何场合都像这个薄唇、明亮的眼睛、长相像外国人的小女人那样对她如此亲近，她以一种高贵的举止恢复了微不足道的外表，穿着一件破旧的防水衣坐在那里，说话时语气惊人地熟悉。欧洲法院的。塔切特夫人没有任何轻浮的性格，但她不承认社会上层人物，并且以一种谈到这一点的方式来判断地球上的伟人，享受给坦率而敏感的头脑留下印象的意识。伊莎贝尔一开始回答了很多问题，从她的回答中，图切特夫人显然对她的智力评价很高。但此后，她问了很多问题，而姑妈的回答，无论怎样，都让她深思熟虑。塔切特夫人在她认为合理的时间内等待着另一个侄女的归来，但六点钟时勒德洛夫人还没有进来，她准备离开。

‘Your sister must be a great gossip. Is she accustomed to staying out so many hours?’
‘你姐姐一定是个八卦的人。她习惯在外面待这么长时间吗？

‘You’ve been out almost as long as she,’ Isabel replied; ‘she can have left the house but a short time before you came in.’
“你出去的时间几乎和她一样长，”伊莎贝尔回答道。 “她可能在你进来之前不久就离开了房子。”

Mrs. Touchett looked at the girl without resentment; she appeared to enjoy a bold retort and to be disposed to be gracious. ‘Perhaps she hasn’t had so good an excuse as I. Tell her at any rate that she must come and see me this evening at that horrid hotel. She may bring her husband if she likes, but she needn’t bring you. I shall see plenty of you later.’
塔切特夫人毫无怨恨地看着女孩。她似乎喜欢大胆反驳，而且乐于表现得和蔼可亲。 “也许她没有像我这样好的借口。无论如何告诉她，她今晚必须来那个可怕的旅馆见我。如果她愿意的话，她可以带她的丈夫来，但她不必带你。以后我会经常见到你们的。

Chapter 4
第4章

Mrs. Ludlow was the eldest of the three sisters, and was usually thought the most sensible; the classification being in general that Lilian was the practical one, Edith the beauty and Isabel the ‘intellectual’ superior. Mrs. Keyes, the second of the group, was the wife of an officer of the United States Engineers, and as our history is not further concerned with her it will suffice that she was indeed very pretty and that she formed the ornament of those various military stations, chiefly in the unfashionable West, to which, to her deep chagrin, her husband was successively relegated. Lilian had married a New York lawyer, a young man with a loud voice and an enthusiasm for his profession; the match was not brilliant, any more than Edith’s, but Lilian had occasionally been spoken of as a young woman who might be thankful to marry at all—she was so much plainer than her sisters. She was, however, very happy, and now, as the mother of two peremptory little boys and the mistress of a wedge of brown stone violently driven into Fifty-third Street, seemed to exult in her condition as in a bold escape. She was short and solid, and her claim to figure was questioned, but she was conceded presence, though not majesty; she had moreover, as people said, improved since her marriage, and the two things in life of which she was most distinctly conscious were her husband’s force in argument and her sister Isabel’s originality. ‘I’ve never kept up with Isabel—it would have taken all my time,’ she had often remarked; in spite of which, however, she held her rather wistfully in sight; watching her as a motherly spaniel might watch a free greyhound. ‘I want to see her safely married—that’s what I want to see,’ she frequently noted to her husband.
勒德洛夫人是三姐妹中最年长的，通常被认为是最明智的。一般来说，莉莉安是实际的，伊迪丝是美丽的，伊莎贝尔是“智力”优越的。凯斯夫人，这群人中的第二位，是美国工程师的一位军官的妻子，由于我们的历史不再与她有关，只要她确实非常漂亮，并且她形成了那些不同的装饰品就足够了。军事基地，主要是在不合时宜的西方，令她深感懊恼的是，她的丈夫连续被降级到这些地方。莉莉安嫁给了一位纽约律师，一位声音洪亮、对自己的职业充满热情的年轻人。这场婚姻并不精彩，并不比伊迪丝的好，但莉莉安偶尔会被说成是一位年轻女子，她可能会庆幸自己能结婚——她比她的姐妹们朴素得多。然而，她非常高兴，现在，作为两个专横的小男孩的母亲和被暴力驱赶到五十三街的一块棕色石头楔子的情妇，她似乎对自己的处境感到欣喜若狂，就像一次大胆的逃跑一样。她身材矮小，身材魁梧，她的身材受到了质疑，但人们承认她的存在，尽管并不威严。而且，正如人们所说，自从结婚以来，她的进步有所提高，生活中她最清楚地意识到的两件事是她丈夫的争论力和她妹妹伊莎贝尔的独创性。 “我从来没有跟上伊莎贝尔——这会花费我所有的时间，”她经常说。尽管如此，她还是相当渴望地注视着她。看着她就像一只慈母的西班牙猎犬一样，就像看着一只自由的灰狗一样。 “我希望看到她安全地结婚——这就是我想看到的，”她经常对丈夫说。

‘Well, I must say I should have no particular desire to marry her,’ Edmund Ludlow was accustomed to answer in an extremely audible tone.
“嗯，我必须说我并没有特别想娶她，”埃德蒙·勒德洛习惯用极其清晰的语气回答。

‘I know you say that for argument; you always take the opposite ground. I don’t see what you’ve against her except that she’s so original.’
“我知道你这么说是为了争论；你总是采取相反的立场。我不明白你有什么反对她的地方，只是她太有创意了。

‘Well, I don’t like originals; I like translations,’ Mr. Ludlow had more than once replied. ‘Isabel’s written in a foreign tongue. I can’t make her out. She ought to marry an Armenian or a Portuguese.’
“嗯，我不喜欢原创；我喜欢原创。” “我喜欢翻译。”勒德洛先生不止一次地回答道。 “伊莎贝尔是用外语写的。我认不出她来。她应该嫁给亚美尼亚人或葡萄牙人。

‘That’s just what I’m afraid she’ll do!’ cried Lilian, who thought Isabel capable of anything.
“我担心她会这么做！”莉莲喊道，她认为伊莎贝尔无所不能。

She listened with great interest to the girl’s account of Mrs. Touchett’s appearance and in the evening prepared to comply with their aunt’s commands. Of what Isabel then said no report has remained, but her sister’s words had doubtless prompted a word spoken to her husband as the two were making ready for their visit. ‘I do hope immensely she’ll do something handsome for Isabel; she has evidently taken a great fancy to her.’
她饶有兴趣地听了女孩对图切特夫人外貌的描述，晚上准备遵守姨妈的命令。关于伊莎贝尔当时所说的话，目前还没有任何报道，但当两人准备拜访时，她姐姐的话无疑促使她对丈夫说了一句话。 “我非常希望她能为伊莎贝尔做一些漂亮的事情；她显然很喜欢她。

‘What is it you wish her to do?’ Edmund Ludlow asked. ‘Make her a big present?’
“你希望她做什么？”埃德蒙·勒德洛问道。 “送她一份大礼物吗？”

‘No indeed; nothing of the sort. But take an interest in hersympathize with her. She’s evidently just the sort of person to appreciate her. She has lived so much in foreign society; she told Isabel all about it. You know you’ve always thought Isabel rather foreign.’
“确实不；”根本不是这样的。但要对她感兴趣并同情她。显然她就是那种欣赏她的人。她在异国社会生活了那么久；她把这一切都告诉了伊莎贝尔。你知道你一直认为伊莎贝尔很陌生。

‘You want her to give her a little foreign sympathy, eh? Don’t you think she gets enough at home?’
‘你想让她给她一点外国的同情，嗯？你不觉得她在家里过得还不够吗？

‘Well, she ought to go abroad,’ said Mrs. Ludlow. ‘She’s just the person to go abroad.’
“好吧，她应该出国，”勒德洛夫人说。 “她就是出国的最佳人选。”

‘And you want the old lady to take her, is that it?’
“你想让老太太带她走，是吗？”

‘She has offered to take her—she’s dying to have Isabel go. But what I want her to do when she gets her there is to give her all the advantages. I’m sure all we’ve got to do,’ said Mrs. Ludlow, ‘is to give her a chance.’
“她主动提出要带走她——她非常想让伊莎贝尔走。”但当她到达那里时，我希望她做的是给她所有的优势。 “我确信我们要做的就是，”勒德洛夫人说，“就是给她一个机会。”

‘A chance for what?’
“什么机会？”

‘A chance to develop.’
“一个发展的机会。”

‘Oh, Moses!’ Edmund Ludlow exclaimed. ‘I hope she isn’t going to develop any more!’
“哦，摩西！”埃德蒙·勒德洛惊呼道。 “我希望她不要再发育了！”

‘If I were not sure you only said that for argument I should feel very badly,’ his wife replied. ‘But you know you love her.’
“如果我不确定你只是为了争论而说的话，我会感到非常难过，”他的妻子回答道。 “但你知道你爱她。”

‘Do you know I love you?’ the young man said, jocosely, to Isabel a little later, while he brushed his hat.
“你知道我爱你吗？”过了一会儿，年轻人一边刷帽子，一边开玩笑地对伊莎贝尔说道。

‘I’m sure I don’t care whether you do or not!’ exclaimed the girl; whose voice and smile, however, were less haughty than her words.
“我确信我不在乎你是否愿意！”女孩喊道。然而，她的声音和笑容却没有她的言语那么傲慢。

‘Oh, she feels so grand since Mrs. Touchett’s visit,’ said her sister.
“哦，自从塔切特夫人来访后，她感觉很伟大，”她姐姐说。

But Isabel challenged this assertion with a good deal of seriousness. ‘You must not say that, Lily. I don’t feel grand at all.’
但伊莎贝尔非常严肃地对这一说法提出了质疑。 “你不可以这么说，莉莉。我一点也不觉得伟大。

‘I’m sure there’s no harm,’ said the conciliatory Lily.
“我确信没有什么坏处，”莉莉和解地说。

‘Ah, but there’s nothing in Mrs. Touchett’s visit to make one feel grand.’
“啊，但是图切特夫人的来访并没有什么让人感觉隆重的。”

‘Oh,’ exclaimed Ludlow, ‘she’s grander than ever!’
“哦，”拉德洛惊呼道，“她比以前更伟大了！”

‘Whenever I feel grand,’ said the girl, ‘it will be for a better reason.’
“每当我感到伟大时，”女孩说，“那都是有更好的理由的。”

Whether she felt grand or no, she at any rate felt different, felt as if something had happened to her. Left to herself for the evening she sat a while under the lamp, her hands empty, her usual avocations unheeded. Then she rose and moved about the room, and from one room to another, preferring the places where the vague lamplight expired. She was restless and even agitated; at moments she trembled a little. The importance of what had happened was out of proportion to its appearance; there had really been a change in her life. What it would bring with it was as yet extremely indefinite; but Isabel was in a situation that gave a value to any change. She had a desire to leave the past behind her and, as she said to herself, to begin afresh. This desire indeed was not a birth of the present occasion; it was as familiar as the sound of the rain upon the window and it had led to her beginning afresh a great many times. She closed her eyes as she sat in one of the dusky corners of the quiet parlour; but it was not with a desire for dozing forgetfulness. It was on the contrary because she felt too wide-eyed and wished to check the sense of seeing too many things at once. Her imagination was by habit ridiculously active; when the door was not open it jumped out of the window. She was not accustomed indeed to keep it behind bolts; and at important moments, when she would have been thankful to make use of her judgement alone, she paid the penalty of having given undue encouragement to the faculty of seeing without judging. At present, with her sense that the note of change had been struck, came gradually a host of images of the things she was leaving behind her. The years and hours of her life came back to her, and for a long time, in a stillness broken only by the ticking of the big bronze clock, she passed them in review. It had been a very happy life and she had been a very fortunate person—this was the truth that seemed to emerge most vividly. She had had the best of everything, and in a world in which the circumstances of so many people made them unenviable it was an advantage never to have known anything particularly unpleasant. It appeared to Isabel that the unpleasant had been even too absent from her knowledge, for she had gathered from her acquaintance with literature that it was often a source of interest and even of instruction. Her father had kept it away from her—her handsome, much-loved father, who always had such an aversion to it. It was a great felicity to have been his daughter; Isabel rose even to pride in her parentage. Since his death she had seemed to see him as turning his braver side to his children and as not having managed to ignore the ugly quite so much in practice as in aspiration. But this only made her tenderness for him greater; it was scarcely even painful to have to suppose him too generous, too good-natured, too indifferent to sordid considerations. Many persons had held that he carried this indifference too far, especially the large number of those to whom he owed money. Of their opinions Isabel was never very definitely informed; but it may interest the reader to know that, while they had recognized in the late Mr. Archer a remarkably handsome head and a very taking manner (indeed, as one of them had said, he was always taking something), they had declared that he was making a very poor use of his life. He had squandered a substantial fortune, he had been deplorably convivial, he was known to have gambled freely. A few very harsh critics went so far as to say that he had not even brought up his daughters. They had had no regular education and no permanent home; they had been at once spoiled and neglected; they had lived with nursemaids and governesses (usually very bad ones) or had been sent to superficial schools, kept by the French, from which, at the end of a month, they had been removed in tears. This view of the matter would have excited Isabel’s indignation, for to her own sense her opportunities had been large. Even when her father had left his daughters for three months at Neufchatel with a French bonne who had eloped with a Russian nobleman staying at the same hotel—even in this irregular situation (an incident of the girl’s eleventh year) she had been neither frightened nor ashamed, but had thought it a romantic episode in a liberal education. Her father had a large way of looking at life, of which his restlessness and even his occasional incoherency of conduct had been only a proof. He wished his daughters, even as children, to see as much of the world as possible; and it was for this purpose that, before Isabel was fourteen, he had transported them three times across the Atlantic, giving them on each occasion, however, but a few months’ view of the subject proposed: a course which had whetted our heroine’s curiosity without enabling her to satisfy it. She ought to have been a partisan of her father, for she was the member of his trio who most ‘made up’ to him for the disagreeables he didn’t mention. In his last days his general willingness to take leave of a world in which the difficulty of doing as one liked appeared to increase as one grew older had been sensibly modified by the pain of separation from his clever, his superior, his remarkable girl. Later, when the journeys to Europe ceased, he still had shown his children all sorts of indulgence, and if he had been troubled about money-matters nothing ever disturbed their irreflective consciousness of many possessions. Isabel, though she danced very well, had not the recollection of having been in New York a successful member of the choregraphic circle; her sister Edith was, as every one said, so very much more fetching. Edith was so striking an example of success that Isabel could have no illusions as to what constituted this advantage, or as to the limits of her own power to frisk and jump and shriek—above all with rightness of effect. Nineteen persons out of twenty (including the younger sister herself pronounced Edith infinitely the prettier of the two; but the twentieth, besides reversing this judgement, had the entertainment of thinking all the others aesthetic vulgarians. Isabel had in the depths of her nature an even more unquenchable desire to please than Edith; but the depths of this young lady’s nature were a very out-of-the-way place, between which and the surface communication was interrupted by a dozen capricious forces. She saw the young men who came in large numbers to see her sister; but as a general thing they were afraid of her; they had a belief that some special preparation was required for talking with her. Her reputation of reading a great deal hung about her like the cloudy envelope of a goddess in an epic; it was supposed to engender difficult questions and to keep the conversation at a low temperature. The poor girl liked to be thought clever, but she hated to be thought bookish; she used to read in secret and, though her memory was excellent, to abstain from showy reference. She had a great desire for knowledge, but she really preferred almost any source of information to the printed page; she had an immense curiosity about life and was constantly staring and wondering. She carried within herself a great fund of life, and her deepest enjoyment was to feel the continuity between the movements of her own soul and the agitations of the world. For this reason she was fond of seeing great crowds and large stretches of country, of reading about revolutions and wars, of looking at historical pictures—a class of efforts as to which she had often committed the conscious solecism of forgiving them much bad painting for the sake of the subject. While the Civil War went on she was still a very young girl; but she passed months of this long period in a state of almost passionate excitement, in which she felt herself at times (to her extreme confusion) stirred almost indiscriminately by the valour of either army. Of course the circumspection of suspicious swains had never gone the length of making her a social proscript; for the number of those whose hearts, as they approached her, beat only just fast enough to remind them they had heads as well, had kept her unacquainted with the supreme discipline of her sex and age. She had had everything a girl could have: kindness, admiration, bonbons, bouquets, the sense of exclusion from none of the privileges of the world she lived in, abundant opportunity for dancing, plenty of new dresses, the London Spectator, the latest publications, the music of Gounod, the poetry of Browning, the prose of George Eliot.
不管她是否觉得伟大，总之她感觉不一样，感觉好像她发生了什么事。晚上，她独自一人在灯下坐了一会儿，双手空空，对平时的爱好置若罔闻。然后她站起来，在房间里走来走去，从一个房间到另一个房间，她更喜欢那些昏暗灯光消失的地方。她焦躁不安，甚至焦躁不安。有时她会微微颤抖。所发生的事情的重要性与它的外表不成比例。她的生活确实发生了变化。它会带来什么，目前还非常不确定。但伊莎贝尔所处的处境让任何改变都变得有价值。她渴望把过去抛在脑后，正如她对自己说的那样，重新开始。这个愿望确实不是当下产生的；这声音就像雨打在窗户上的声音一样熟悉，这让她多次重新开始。她闭上眼睛，坐在安静客厅的一个昏暗的角落里。但它并不是为了打瞌睡而健忘。恰恰相反，她觉得自己太睁大眼睛，想要检查一下一下子看到太多东西的感觉。她的想象力习惯性地活跃得可笑。当门没有打开时，它就从窗户跳了出去。她确实不习惯把它放在螺栓后面。在重要的时刻，当她本该庆幸自己能单独运用自己的判断力时，她却因为过度鼓励了不加判断地观察的能力而付出了代价。现在，随着她感觉到变化的音符已经被敲响，一系列她即将离开的事物的画面逐渐浮现出来。 她回忆起生命中的岁月和时光，很长一段时间，在只有青铜大钟的滴答声打破的寂静中，她回顾着它们。那是一种非常幸福的生活，她是一个非常幸运的人——这似乎是最生动的事实。她已经拥有了最好的一切，在这个世界上，有这么多人的处境使他们不值得羡慕，从不知道任何特别不愉快的事情是一个优势。在伊莎贝尔看来，她的知识中根本就没有那些不愉快的事情，因为她从对文学的了解中了解到，文学往往是兴趣的源泉，甚至是教育的源泉。她的父亲一直把它藏在远离她的地方——她英俊、深受爱戴的父亲，却总是对它抱有如此的厌恶。能成为他的女儿真是一件幸事。伊莎贝尔甚至对自己的出身感到自豪。自从他死后，她似乎认为他将勇敢的一面转向了他的孩子们，并且在实践中和在愿望中都没有成功地忽视丑陋。但这只会让她对他更加温柔。假设他过于慷慨、脾气太好、对肮脏的考虑过于漠不关心，这几乎没有什么痛苦。许多人认为他的这种冷漠态度太过分了，尤其是他欠了很多人钱的人。伊莎贝尔从未明确得知他们的意见。但读者可能会感兴趣的是，虽然他们在已故的阿切尔先生身上发现了一个非常英俊的头脑和一种非常有吸引力的态度（事实上，正如他们中的一位所说，他总是在接受一些东西），但他们宣称：他没有充分利用自己的生命。 他挥霍了一大笔财产，他的欢乐程度令人遗憾，众所周知，他赌博随意。一些非常严厉的批评者甚至说他甚至没有抚养过他的女儿们。他们没有接受过正规教育，也没有固定的住所；他们立刻就被宠坏了，又被忽视了。他们与保姆和家庭女教师（通常是非常糟糕的人）住在一起，或者被送到法国人开办的肤浅学校，一个月后，他们含着泪水被从学校开除了。对此事的这种看法会激起伊莎贝尔的愤慨，因为她自己感觉她的机会很大。即使她的父亲把他的女儿们留在纳沙泰尔三个月，与一位与一位住在同一家旅馆的俄罗斯贵族私奔的法国淑女在一起——即使在这种不正常的情况下（女孩十一岁时的一次事件），她既不害怕也不害怕。感到羞愧，但认为这是通识教育中的浪漫插曲。她父亲对生活的看法很宽泛，他的焦躁不安，甚至偶尔的行为不连贯只是证明。他希望他的女儿们，即使在孩童时期，也能尽可能多地看看这个世界。正是出于这个目的，在伊莎贝尔十四岁之前，他曾三次将他们运送到大西洋彼岸，然而，每次都给他们提出了几个月的对这个主题的看法：一门激发了我们女主人公好奇心的课程却又不让她满足。她应该是她父亲的支持者，因为她是他三人组中最“弥补”他没有提到的不愉快的人。 在他最后的日子里，他普遍愿意离开这个世界，在这个世界里，随着年龄的增长，做自己想做的事情似乎越来越困难，但由于与他聪明的、他的上司、他的杰出女孩分离的痛苦，他的这种意愿明显地改变了。后来，当欧洲之旅结束时，他仍然对孩子们表现出各种各样的宽容，即使他为金钱问题而烦恼，也没有什么能扰乱他们对许多财产的不加思考的意识。伊莎贝尔虽然跳舞跳得很好，但她不记得自己曾在纽约成为一名成功的舞蹈界成员。正如大家所说，她的妹妹伊迪丝更加迷人。伊迪丝是一个如此引人注目的成功典范，伊莎贝尔对这种优势的构成，或者对她自己跳动、跳跃和尖叫的能力的限制不抱任何幻想——最重要的是效果正确。二十人中有十九人（包括妹妹本人）都宣称伊迪丝是两人中最漂亮的；但第二十人除了推翻这一判断之外，还乐于思考所有其他人的审美庸俗。伊莎贝尔在她的本性深处有一种平等的态度。比伊迪丝更难以抑制的取悦欲望；但是这位年轻女士本质的深处是一个非常偏僻的地方，其与表面的交流被十几种反复无常的力量所中断。她看到了进来的年轻人许多人来看望她的妹妹；但总的来说，他们害怕她；他们相信与她交谈需要一些特殊的准备。 她博览群书的名声一直萦绕在她的心头，就像史诗中女神的浑浊信封一样。它应该提出一些棘手的问题，并使谈话保持在较低的温度。这个可怜的女孩喜欢被人认为聪明，但她讨厌被人认为书呆子。她过去常偷偷地读书，尽管她的记忆力极好，但她却避免提及任何华丽的内容。她对知识有着强烈的渴望，但与印刷版相比，她确实更喜欢几乎所有的信息来源；她对生活抱有极大的好奇心，不断地凝视和好奇。她体内蕴藏着巨大的生命力，她最深的享受就是感受自己灵魂的运动与世界的骚动之间的连续性。出于这个原因，她喜欢看人群和广阔的乡村，喜欢阅读有关革命和战争的文章，喜欢观看历史图片——她经常有意识地犯下错误的错误，原谅他们的许多糟糕的绘画。为了主题的缘故。内战仍在继续时，她还是一个非常年轻的女孩。但在这漫长的几个月里，她几乎是在一种近乎激情的兴奋状态中度过的，在这种状态下，她有时感到自己（令她极度困惑）几乎不分青红皂白地被两支军队的英勇所激动。当然，多疑的情人的谨慎并没有让她成为社会禁足者。因为有很多人，当他们接近她时，心脏跳动的速度只是快到足以提醒他们也有头脑，这让她不熟悉自己的性别和年龄的最高纪律。 她拥有一个女孩所能拥有的一切：善良、钦佩、糖果、花束、她所生活的世界中没有任何特权的排斥感、充足的跳舞机会、大量的新衣服、《伦敦观察家》、最新的出版物、古诺的音乐、勃朗宁的诗歌、乔治·艾略特的散文。

These things now, as memory played over them, resolved themselves into a multitude of scenes and figures. Forgotten things came back to her; many others, which she had lately thought of great moment, dropped out of sight. The result was kaleidoscopic, but the movement of the instrument was checked at last by the servant’s coming in with the name of a gentleman. The name of the gentleman was Caspar Goodwood; he was a straight young man from Boston, who had known Miss Archer for the last twelvemonth and who, thinking her the most beautiful young woman of her time, had pronounced the time, according to the rule I have hinted at, a foolish period of history. He sometimes wrote to her and had within a week or two written from New York. She had thought it very possible he would come in—had indeed all the rainy day been vaguely expecting him. Now that she learned he was there, nevertheless, she felt no eagerness to receive him. He was the finest young man she had ever seen, was indeed quite a splendid young man; he inspired her with a sentiment of high, of rare respect. She had never felt equally moved to it by any other person. He was supposed by the world in general to wish to marry her, but this of course was between themselves. It at least may be affirmed that he had travelled from New York to Albany expressly to see her; having learned in the former city, where he was spending a few days and where he had hoped to find her, that she was still at the State capital. Isabel delayed for some minutes to go to him; she moved about the room with a new sense of complications. But at last she presented herself and found him standing near the lamp. He was tall, strong and somewhat stiff; he was also lean and brown. He was not romantically, he was much rather obscurely, handsome; but his physiognomy had an air of requesting your attention, which it rewarded according to the charm you found in blue eyes of remarkable fixedness, the eyes of a complexion other than his own, and a jaw of the somewhat angular mould which is supposed to bespeak resolution. Isabel said to herself that it bespoke resolution to-night; in spite of which, in half an hour, Caspar Goodwood, who had arrived hopeful as well as resolute, took his way back to his lodging with the feeling of a man defeated. He was not, it may be added, a man weakly to accept defeat.
现在，当记忆在它们身上播放时，这些东西就分解成大量的场景和人物。她又想起了那些被遗忘的事情；她最近认为重要时刻的许多其他人都消失了。结果是万花筒般的，但仪器的运动最终被以绅士的名义进来的仆人所检查。这位绅士的名字叫卡斯帕·古德伍德。 ”历史。他有时会写信给她，一两周之内就会从纽约写信给她。她原以为他很可能会进来——事实上，整个下雨天都在隐隐约约地等待着他。然而，现在她得知他在那里，却并没有急于接待他。他是她见过的最优秀的年轻人，确实是一个相当出色的年轻人；他以一种崇高的情感和罕见的尊重激励了她。她从未对任何其他人感到同样的感动。全世界都认为他希望娶她，但这当然是他们之间的事情。至少可以肯定，他是专程从纽约到奥尔巴尼来看她的。他在原来的城市待了几天，他本来希望在那里找到她，但得知她仍在州首府。伊莎贝尔耽搁了几分钟才去找他。她带着一种新的复杂感在房间里走来走去。但最后她出现了，发现他站在灯旁边。他身材高大、强壮，但有些僵硬。他身材瘦削，皮肤黝黑。 他并不浪漫，而是相当不起眼，英俊。但他的相貌有一种吸引你注意的神态，你会发现他的蓝色眼睛具有非凡的固定性，眼睛的肤色与他自己不同，下巴有些棱角，这应该表明他的魅力，所以你会注意到他的神情。解决。伊莎贝尔对自己说，今晚就下定决心了。尽管如此，半个小时后，满怀希望又坚定地抵达的卡斯帕·古德伍德带着一种挫败感回到了住处。可以补充一点，他并不是一个软弱地接受失败的人。

Chapter 5
第5章

Ralph Touchett was a philosopher, but nevertheless he knocked at his mother’s door (at a quarter to seven) with a good deal of eagerness. Even philosophers have their preferences, and it must be admitted that of his progenitors his father ministered most to his sense of the sweetness of filial dependence. His father, as he had often said to himself, was the more motherly; his mother, on the other hand, was paternal, and even, according to the slang of the day, gubernatorial. She was nevertheless very fond of her only child and had always insisted on his spending three months of the year with her. Ralph rendered perfect justice to her affection and knew that in her thoughts and her thoroughly arranged and servanted life his turn always came after the other nearest subjects of her solicitude, the various punctualities of performance of the workers of her will. He found her completely dressed for dinner, but she embraced her boy with her gloved hands and made him sit on the sofa beside her. She enquired scrupulously about her husband’s health and about the young man’s own, and, receiving no very brilliant account of either, remarked that she was more than ever convinced of her wisdom in not exposing herself to the English climate. In this case she also might have given way. Ralph smiled at the idea of his mother’s giving way, but made no point of reminding her that his own infirmity was not the result of the English climate, from which he absented himself for a considerable part of each year.
拉尔夫·图切特是一位哲学家，但尽管如此，他还是非常热切地敲响了母亲的门（七点一刻）。即使哲学家也有他们的偏好，而且必须承认，在他的祖先中，他的父亲对他感受到孝顺依赖的甜蜜感影响最大。正如他经常对自己说的那样，他的父亲更具慈母性。另一方面，他的母亲则是一位父亲，甚至用当时的俚语来说，是州长。尽管如此，她还是非常喜欢她唯一的孩子，总是坚持让他每年和她一起度过三个月。拉尔夫对她的感情表现得十分公正，他知道，在她的思想和她精心安排的奴役生活中，轮到他的总是在她关心的其他最近的主题之后，即她意志的工作者的各种准时表现之后。他发现她已经穿戴整齐准备晚餐了，但她用戴着手套的双手拥抱了她的男孩，让他坐在她旁边的沙发上。她仔细地询问了她丈夫和年轻人的健康状况，虽然没有收到任何非常出色的报告，但她说她比以往任何时候都更加相信自己不让自己暴露在英国气候中是明智的。在这种情况下，她也可能会屈服。拉尔夫一想到母亲的让步，就笑了，但他没有提醒她，他自己的体弱多病并不是英国气候造成的，他每年都会有相当一部分时间缺席英国的气候。

He had been a very small boy when his father, Daniel Tracy Touchett, a native of Rutland, in the State of Vermont, came to England as subordinate partner in a banking-house where some ten years later he gained preponderant control. Daniel Touchett saw before him a life-long residence in his adopted country, of which, from the first, he took a simple, sane and accommodating view. But, as he said to himself, he had no intention of dis-americanizing, nor had he a desire to teach his only son any such subtle art. It had been for himself so very soluble a problem to live in England assimilated yet unconverted that it seemed to him equally simple his lawful heir should after his death carry on the grey old bank in the white American light. He was at pains to intensify this light, however, by sending the boy home for his education. Ralph spent several terms at an American school and took a degree at an American university, after which, as he struck his father on his return as even redundantly native, he was placed for some three years in residence at Oxford. Oxford swallowed up Harvard, and Ralph became at last English enough. His outward conformity to the manners that surrounded him was none the less the mask of a mind that greatly enjoyed its independence, on which nothing long imposed itself, and which, naturally inclined to adventure and irony, indulged in a boundless liberty of appreciation. He began with being a young man of promise; at Oxford he distinguished himself, to his father’s ineffable satisfaction, and the people about him said it was a thousand pities so clever a fellow should be shut out from a career. He might have had a career by returning to his own country (though this point is shrouded in uncertainty) and even if Mr. Touchett had been willing to part with him (which was not the case) it would have gone hard with him to put a watery waste permanently between himself and the old man whom he regarded as his best friend. Ralph was not only fond of his father, he admired him—he enjoyed the opportunity of observing him. Daniel Touchett, to his perception, was a man of genius, and though he himself had no aptitude for the banking mystery he made a point of learning enough of it to measure the great figure his father had played. It was not this, however, he mainly relished; it was the fine ivory surface, polished as by the English air, that the old man had opposed to possibilities of penetration. Daniel Touchett had been neither at Harvard nor at Oxford, and it was his own fault if he had placed in his son’s hands the key to modern criticism. Ralph, whose head was full of ideas which his father had never guessed, had a high esteem for the latter’s originality. Americans, rightly or wrongly, are commended for the ease with which they adapt themselves to foreign conditions; but Mr. Touchett had made of the very limits of his pliancy half the ground of his general success. He had retained in their freshness most of his marks of primary pressure; his tone, as his son always noted with pleasure, was that of the more luxuriant parts of New England. At the end of his life he had become, on his own ground, as mellow as he was rich; he combined consummate shrewdness with the disposition superficially to fraternize, and his ‘social position,’ on which he had never wasted a care, had the firm perfection of an unthumbed fruit. It was perhaps his want of imagination and of what is called the historic consciousness; but to many of the impressions usually made by English life upon the cultivated stranger his sense was completely closed. There were certain differences he had never perceived, certain habits he had never formed, certain obscurities he had never sounded. As regards these latter, on the day he had sounded them his son would have thought less well of him.
当他的父亲丹尼尔·特雷西·塔奇特（Daniel Tracy Touchett）（佛蒙特州拉特兰人）来到英国时，他还是个很小的男孩，他在一家银行担任下属合伙人，大约十年后，他获得了该银行的绝对控制权。丹尼尔·图切特（Daniel Touchett）在他的第二故乡看到了他一生的居住地，从一开始，他就对这个居住地抱有简单、理智和包容的看法。但是，正如他对自己说的那样，他无意去美国化，也无意教他唯一的儿子任何如此微妙的艺术。对他来说，生活在被同化但未皈依的英国是一个非常容易解决的问题，因此在他看来，他的合法继承人在他死后在美国白人的光芒下继承这家灰色的旧银行似乎同样简单。然而，他煞费苦心地将这个男孩送回家接受教育，以加强这种光明。拉尔夫在一所美国学校度过了几个学期，并在一所美国大学获得了学位，之后，当他回国时给他的父亲留下了一个多余的本地人印象时，他被安排在牛津大学居住了大约三年。牛津吞并了哈佛，拉尔夫终于变得足够英国化了。尽管如此，他外表上与周围人的举止保持一致，实际上是一个非常享受独立性的思想的面具，没有什么长期强加于他的思想，并且天生倾向于冒险和讽刺，沉迷于无限的欣赏自由。他一开始是一个有前途的年轻人；在牛津，他表现出色，这让他的父亲感到难以言喻的满意，他​​周围的人都说，如此聪明的一个人被排除在职业生涯之外，真是一千件遗憾。他可能会通过返回自己的国家获得一份职业（尽管这一点还存在不确定性），即使先生。 塔奇特本来愿意与他分开（事实并非如此），但要让他和这个他视为最好朋友的老人之间永远存在一种水汪汪的浪费，对他来说是很难的。拉尔夫不仅喜欢他的父亲，而且钦佩他——他很享受观察他的机会。丹尼尔·图切特（Daniel Touchett）在他看来是一位天才，尽管他本人对银行业的奥秘没有天赋，但他还是刻意学习足够多的知识来衡量他父亲所扮演的伟大人物。然而，他最喜欢的并不是这个。那是精致的象牙色表面，被英国空气打磨得光滑，老人反对穿透的可能性。丹尼尔·图切特既没有在哈佛读书，也没有在牛津大学读书，如果他把现代批评的钥匙交到儿子手中，那就是他自己的错。拉尔夫的脑子里充满了他父亲从未猜到的想法，他对后者的独创性非常尊重。无论正确与否，美国人因能够轻松适应外国环境而受到赞扬。但是，图切特先生却利用了他的柔韧的局限性，成为了他取得普遍成功的一半原因。他仍然保留着大部分主要压力的痕迹。正如他儿子总是高兴地注意到的那样，他的语气是新英格兰更富饶地区的语气。在他生命的最后阶段，他在自己的土地上变得既成熟又富有。他将完美的精明与表面上的友善相结合，而他从未浪费过精力的“社会地位”，拥有一颗未经破坏的果实般的坚定完美。 也许是他缺乏想象力和所谓的历史意识；但对于英国生活通常给有教养的陌生人留下的许多印象来说，他的感觉是完全封闭的。有些差异他从未察觉，有些习惯他从未养成，有些晦涩难懂的东西他从未听过。至于后者，在他试探的那天，他的儿子可能对他评价不太好。

Ralph, on leaving Oxford, had spent a couple of years in travelling; after which he had found himself perched on a high stool in his father’s bank. The responsibility and honour of such positions is not, I believe, measured by the height of the stool, which depends upon other considerations: Ralph, indeed, who had very long legs, was fond of standing, and even of walking about, at his work. To this exercise, however, he was obliged to devote but a limited period, for at the end of some eighteen months he had become aware of his being seriously out of health. He had caught a violent cold, which fixed itself on his lungs and threw them into dire confusion. He had to give up work and apply, to the letter, the sorry injunction to take care of himself. At first he slighted the task; it appeared to him it was not himself in the least he was taking care of, but an uninteresting and uninterested person with whom he had nothing in common. This person, however, improved on acquaintance, and Ralph grew at last to have a certain grudging tolerance, even an undemonstrative respect, for him. Misfortune makes strange bedfellows, and our young man, feeling that he had something at stake in the matter—it usually struck him as his reputation for ordinary witdevoted to his graceless charge an amount of attention of which note was duly taken and which had at least the effect of keeping the poor fellow alive. One of his lungs began to heal, the other promised to follow its example, and he was assured he might outweather a dozen winters if he would betake himself to those climates in which consumptives chiefly congregate. As he had grown extremely fond of London, he cursed the flatness of exile: but at the same time that he cursed he conformed, and gradually, when he found his sensitive organ grateful even for grim favours, he conferred them with a lighter hand. He wintered abroad, as the phrase is; basked in the sun, stopped at home when the wind blew, went to bed when it rained, and once or twice, when it had snowed overnight, almost never got up again.
拉尔夫离开牛津后，已经旅行了几年。之后他发现自己坐在父亲银行的一张高凳上。我相信，这种职位的责任和荣誉不是用凳子的高度来衡量的，凳子的高度取决于其他考虑因素：确实，拉尔夫有很长的腿，喜欢站立，甚至喜欢在他的凳子上走来走去。工作。然而，他只能在有限的时间内完成这项练习，因为大约十八个月后，他意识到自己的健康状况严重不佳。他得了一场剧烈的感冒，感冒侵袭了他的肺部，让肺部陷入了极度混乱。他不得不放弃工作，并严格遵守抱歉的禁令，照顾好自己。起初他对这项任务不屑一顾。在他看来，他所关心的根本不是他自己，而是一个与他毫无共同之处的无趣无趣的人。然而，随着对这个人的了解，拉尔夫终于对他产生了某种勉强的宽容，甚至是一种不言而喻的尊重。不幸使我们的同床异梦变得奇怪，我们的年轻人感到自己在这件事上有什么利害关系——他通常会因为他以普通智慧而闻名的名声，致力于他无礼的指控而引起了足够的关注，这种注意得到了适当的重视，并且至少已经引起了他的注意。让这个可怜的家伙活下去的效果他的一个肺开始痊愈，另一个答应效仿它的做法，并且他确信，如果他愿意去肺痨病患者主要聚集的气候中，他可能会度过十几个冬天。 当他越来越喜欢伦敦时，他咒骂流放的平淡：但他咒骂的同时，他也顺从了，渐渐地，当他发现自己敏感的器官即使对残酷的恩惠也心存感激时，他就会以更轻松的方式给予他们。正如俗话说的那样，他在国外过冬；晒太阳，刮风就在家呆着，下雨就睡觉，有一两次，下了一夜雪，就几乎再也没有起床。

A secret hoard of indifference—like a thick cake a fond old nurse might have slipped into his first school outfit—came to his aid and helped to reconcile him to sacrifice; since at the best he was too ill for aught but that arduous game. As he said to himself, there was really nothing he had wanted very much to do, so that he had at least not renounced the field of valour. At present, however, the fragrance of forbidden fruit seemed occasionally to float past him and remind him that the finest of pleasures is the rush of action. Living as he now lived was like reading a good book in a poor translation—a meagre entertainment for a young man who felt that he might have been an excellent linguist. He had good winters and poor winters, and while the former lasted he was sometimes the sport of a vision of virtual recovery. But this vision was dispelled some three years before the occurrence of the incidents with which this history opens: he had on that occasion remained later than usual in England and had been overtaken by bad weather before reaching Algiers. He arrived more dead than alive and lay there for several weeks between life and death. His convalescence was a miracle, but the first use he made of it was to assure himself that such miracles happen but once. He said to himself that his hour was in sight and that it behoved him to keep his eyes upon it, yet that it was also open to him to spend the interval as agreeably as might be consistent with such a preoccupation. With the prospect of losing them the simple use of his faculties became an exquisite pleasure; it seemed to him the joys of contemplation had never been sounded. He was far from the time when he had found it hard that he should be obliged to give up the idea of distinguishing himself; an idea none the less importunate for being vague and none the less delightful for having had to struggle in the same breast with bursts of inspiring self-criticism. His friends at present judged him more cheerful, and attributed it to a theory, over which they shook their heads knowingly, that he would recover his health. His serenity was but the array of wild flowers niched in his ruin.
一股秘密的冷漠——就像一个厚厚的蛋糕，一个可爱的老护士可能会塞进他的第一套校服——来帮助他，帮助他调和牺牲;因为他充其量只是病得太重，除了那场艰苦的比赛之外什么也做不了。正如他对自己说的那样，他确实没有什么特别想做的事，所以他至少没有放弃勇敢的领域。然而现在，禁果的香气似乎偶尔从他身边飘过，提醒他最好的快乐就是行动的匆忙。他现在的生活就像读一本翻译很差劲的好书——对于一个自认为自己可能成为一名优秀语言学家的年轻人来说，这是一种微薄的娱乐。他度过了美好的冬天和糟糕的冬天，虽然前者持续了，但他有时却是虚拟康复愿景的运动。但这一愿景在这段历史开始的事件发生前大约三年就被驱散了：那次他在英国停留的时间比平常晚，在到达阿尔及尔之前就因恶劣天气而无法行动。他到达时已经死了，生不如死，并在生死之间躺了几个星期。他的康复是一个奇迹，但他第一次利用它是为了向自己保证这样的奇迹只会发生一次。他对自己说，他的时刻就在眼前，他应该密切关注这一时刻，但他也可以在与这种全神贯注的情况下尽可能愉快地度过这段时间。由于担心失去这些能力，简单地使用他的能力就变成了一种美妙的乐趣。在他看来，沉思的乐趣从未响起过。 他还远没有到不得不放弃出名的想法的时候；尽管这个想法是模糊的，但它仍然是令人愉快的，因为它不得不在同一个胸膛中与迸发的鼓舞人心的自我批评进行斗争。他的朋友们现在认为他更加开朗了，并将其归因于一种理论，他们会心地摇头，认为他会恢复健康。他的平静不过是他废墟中开出的一簇簇野花。

It was very probably this sweet-tasting property of the observed thing in itself that was mainly concerned in Ralph’s quickly-stirred interest in the advent of a young lady who was evidently not insipid. If he was consideringly disposed, something told him, here was occupation enough for a succession of days. It may be added, in summary fashion, that the imagination of loving—as distinguished from that of being loved—had still a place in his reduced sketch. He had only forbidden himself the riot of expression. However, he shouldn’t inspire his cousin with a passion, nor would she be able, even should she try, to help him to one. ‘And now tell me about the young lady,’ he said to his mother. ‘What do you mean to do with her?’
很可能正是所观察到的事物本身的这种甜味特性，主要与拉尔夫对一位显然不乏味的年轻女士的出现迅速激发的兴趣有关。某种感觉告诉他，如果他考虑周到的话，这里就足够他连续几天呆下去了。总而言之，可以补充一点，爱的想象——与被爱的想象不同——在他简化的草图中仍然占有一席之地。他只是禁止自己乱表达。然而，他不应该激发他的表弟的热情，而她也无法（即使她尝试）帮助他实现这一目标。 “现在告诉我关于那位年轻女士的事，”他对母亲说。 “你想对她做什么？”

Mrs. Touchett was prompt. ‘I mean to ask your father to invite her to stay three or four weeks at Gardencourt.’
塔切特夫人反应很快。 “我的意思是让你父亲邀请她在花园庭院住三四个星期。”

‘You needn’t stand on any such ceremony as that,’ said Ralph. ‘My father will ask her as a matter of course.’
“你不需要参加这样的仪式，”拉尔夫说。 “我父亲理所当然地会问她。”

‘I don’t know about that. She’s my niece; she’s not his.’
“我不知道这一点。她是我的侄女；她不是他的。

‘Good Lord, dear mother; what a sense of property! That’s all the more reason for his asking her. But after that—I mean after three months (for it’s absurd asking the poor girl to remain but for three or four paltry weeks)—what do you mean to do with her?’
‘上帝啊，亲爱的母亲；多么有归属感啊！这就是他问她的更多理由。但在那之后——我的意思是三个月后（因为要求这个可怜的女孩只留下三四个星期是荒谬的）——你打算对她做什么？

‘I mean to take her to Paris. I mean to get her clothing.’
“我打算带她去巴黎。我的意思是去拿她的衣服。

‘Ah yes, that’s of course. But independently of that?’
‘啊，是的，那是当然的。但与此无关？

‘I shall invite her to spend the autumn with me in Florence.’
“我会邀请她和我一起去佛罗伦萨度过秋天。”

‘You don’t rise above detail, dear mother,’ said Ralph. ‘I should like to know what you mean to do with her in a general way.’
“亲爱的妈妈，你不能忽视细节。”拉尔夫说。 “我想知道你一般打算对她做什么。”

‘My duty!’ Mrs. Touchett declared. ‘I suppose you pity her very much,’ she added.
“我的职责！”图切特夫人宣称。 “我想你非常可怜她，”她补充道。

‘No, I don’t think I pity her. She doesn’t strike me as inviting compassion. I think I envy her. Before being sure, however, give me a hint of where you see your duty.’
“不，我不认为我可怜她。在我看来，她并没有引起同情心。我想我很羡慕她。不过，在确定之前，请先给我一个提示，告诉我你在哪里看到了你的职责。

‘In showing her four European countries—I shall leave her the choice of two of them—and in giving her the opportunity of perfecting herself in French, which she already knows very well.’
“向她展示四个欧洲国家——我将让她选择其中两个国家——并给她完善自己法语的机会，她已经非常了解法语了。”

Ralph frowned a little. ‘That sounds rather dry—even allowing her the choice of two of the countries.’
拉尔夫微微皱起了眉头。 “这听起来相当干燥——甚至允许她选择其中两个国家。”

‘If it’s dry,’ said his mother with a laugh, ‘you can leave Isabel alone to water it! She is as good as a summer rain, any day.’
“如果它干了，”他的母亲笑着说，“你可以让伊莎贝尔一个人去浇水！”无论何时，她都像夏日的雨一样美好。

‘Do you mean she’s a gifted being?’
“你的意思是她是一个有天赋的人吗？”

‘I don’t know whether she’s a gifted being, but she’s a clever girlwith a strong will and a high temper. She has no idea of being bored.’
‘我不知道她是否是一个天才，但她是一个聪明的女孩，意志坚强，脾气暴躁。她不知道无聊。

‘I can imagine that,’ said Ralph; and then he added abruptly: ‘How do you two get on?’
“我能想象得到，”拉尔夫说。然后他突然补充道：“你们两个相处得怎么样？”

‘Do you mean by that that I’m a bore? I don’t think she finds me one. Some girls might, I know; but Isabel’s too clever for that. I think I greatly amuse her. We get on because I understand her; I know the sort of girl she is. She’s very frank, and I’m very frank: we know just what to expect of each other.’
‘你的意思是说我很无聊吗？我认为她没有找到我。我知道，有些女孩可能会这样；但伊莎贝尔太聪明了，不会这么做。我想我让她很开心。我们相处得很好，因为我理解她；我知道她是个什么样的女孩。她很坦率，我也很坦率：我们知道对彼此的期望。

‘Ah, dear mother,’ Ralph exclaimed, ‘one always knows what to expect of you! You’ve never surprised me but once, and that’s to-day—in presenting me with a pretty cousin whose existence I had never suspected.’
“啊，亲爱的妈妈，”拉尔夫惊呼道，“人们总是知道对您有什么期望！你从来没有让我感到惊讶过，只有一次，那就是今天——向我介绍了一个我从未怀疑过的漂亮表弟的存在。

‘Do you think her so very pretty?’
“你觉得她有那么漂亮吗？”

‘Very pretty indeed; but I don’t insist upon that. It’s her general air of being some one in particular that strikes me. Who is this rare creature, and what is she? Where did you find her, and how did you make her acquaintance?’
‘确实非常漂亮；但我并不坚持这一点。令我印象深刻的是她那种特别的气质。这个稀有生物是谁？她是什么？你在哪里找到她的？你是怎么认识她的？

‘I found her in an old house at Albany, sitting in a dreary room on a rainy day, reading a heavy book and boring herself to death. She didn’t know she was bored, but when I left her no doubt of it she seemed very grateful for the service. You may say I shouldn’t have enlightened her—I should have let her alone. There’s a good deal in that, but I acted conscientiously; I thought she was meant for something better. It occurred to me that it would be a kindness to take her about and introduce her to the world. She thinks she knows a great deal of it—like most American girls; but like most American girls she’s ridiculously mistaken. If you want to know, I thought she would do me credit. I like to be well thought of, and for a woman of my age there’s no greater convenience, in some ways, than an attractive niece. You know I had seen nothing of my sister’s children for years; I disapproved entirely of the father. But I always meant to do something for them when he should have gone to his reward. I ascertained where they were to be found and, without any preliminaries, went and introduced myself. There are two others of them, both of whom are married; but I saw only the elder, who has, by the way, a very uncivil husband. The wife, whose name is Lily, jumped at the idea of my taking an interest in Isabel; she said it was just what her sister needed—that some one should take an interest in her. She spoke of her as you might speak of some young person of genius—in want of encouragement and patronage. It may be that Isabel’s a genius; but in that case I’ve not yet learned her special line. Mrs. Ludlow was especially keen about my taking her to Europe; they all regard Europe over there as a land of emigration, of rescue, a refuge for their superfluous population. Isabel herself seemed very glad to come, and the thing was easily arranged. There was a little difficulty about the money-question, as she seemed averse to being under pecuniary obligations. But she has a small income and she supposes herself to be travelling at her own expense.’
“我在奥尔巴尼的一所老房子里找到了她，雨天坐在一间沉闷的房间里，读一本厚书，无聊得要死。她不知道自己很无聊，但当我毫无疑问地离开她时，她似乎非常感谢这项服务。你可能会说我不应该启发她——我应该让她一个人呆着。这其中有很多道理，但我是认真行事的；我以为她是为了更好的事情而生的。我突然想到，如果能带她到处走走，把她介绍给这个世界，那将是一种善意。她认为自己对此了解很多——就像大多数美国女孩一样。但和大多数美国女孩一样，她犯了一个可笑的错误。如果你想知道的话，我想她会给我带来荣誉。我喜欢被人关心，对于我这个年纪的女人来说，从某些方面来说，没有比拥有一个迷人的侄女更方便的了。你知道我已经很多年没有见过我姐姐的孩子了。我完全不赞成父亲。但当他应该得到回报时，我总是想为他们做点什么。我确定了在哪里可以找到他们，然后没有做任何准备，就去自我介绍了。他们中还有另外两个人，都已婚；但我只看到了长辈，顺便说一下，他有一个非常不文明的丈夫。妻子名叫莉莉，一想到我对伊莎贝尔感兴趣，她就很高兴。她说这正是她姐姐所需要的——有人应该对她感兴趣。她谈论她就像谈论某个需要鼓励和赞助的天才年轻人一样。伊莎贝尔可能是个天才；也许伊莎贝尔是个天才。但那样的话我还没有学会她的特殊台词。勒德洛夫人特别热衷于我带她去欧洲。他们都把那里的欧洲视为移民之地、救援之地、过剩人口的避难所。 伊莎贝尔本人似乎很高兴来，事情很容易就安排好了。关于金钱的问题有点困难，因为她似乎不愿意承担金钱义务。但她的收入微薄，她认为自己要自费旅行。’

Ralph had listened attentively to this judicious report, by which his interest in the subject of it was not impaired. ‘Ah, if she’s a genius,’ he said, ‘we must find out her special line. Is it by chance for flirting?’
拉尔夫认真地听了这个明智的报告，但他对这个主题的兴趣并没有受到损害。 “啊，如果她是个天才，”他说，“我们必须找出她的特殊路线。”是偶然调情吗？

‘I don’t think so. You may suspect that at first, but you’ll be wrong. You won’t, I think, in any way, be easily right about her.’
'我不这么认为。一开始你可能会怀疑，但你错了。我认为，无论如何，你都不会轻易对她做出正确的判断。

‘Warburton’s wrong then!’ Ralph rejoicingly exclaimed. ‘He flatters himself he has made that discovery.’
“那么沃伯顿错了！”拉尔夫高兴地喊道。 “他自以为已经有了这个发现。”

His mother shook her head. ‘Lord Warburton won’t understand her. He needn’t try.’
他的母亲摇摇头。 “沃伯顿勋爵不会理解她的。”他不需要尝试。

‘He’s very intelligent,’ said Ralph; ‘but it’s right he should be puzzled once in a while.’
“他非常聪明，”拉尔夫说。 “但他偶尔感到困惑是正确的。”

‘Isabel will enjoy puzzling a lord,’ Mrs. Touchett remarked.
“伊莎贝尔会喜欢让领主困惑，”图切特夫人说道。

Her son frowned a little. ‘What does she know about lords?’
儿子微微皱起眉头。 “她对领主了解多少？”

‘Nothing at all: that will puzzle him all the more.’
“什么也没有：这会让他更加困惑。”

Ralph greeted these words with a laugh and looked out of the window. Then, ‘Are you not going down to see my father?’ he asked.
拉尔夫笑着回应这句话，看着窗外。然后，“你不去看我父亲吗？”他问道。

‘At a quarter to eight,’ said Mrs. Touchett.
“八点一刻，”图切特太太说。

Her son looked at his watch. ‘You’ve another quarter of an hour then. Tell me some more about Isabel.’ After which, as Mrs. Touchett declined his invitation, declaring that he must find out for himself, ‘Well,’ he pursued, ‘she’ll certainly do you credit. But won’t she also give you trouble?’
她儿子看了看手表。 “那你还有一刻钟的时间。”告诉我更多关于伊莎贝尔的事。”之后，图切特夫人拒绝了他的邀请，并宣称他必须亲自找出答案，“好吧，”他接着说，“她肯定会给你带来荣誉。”但她不会也会给你带来麻烦吗？

‘I hope not; but if she does I shall not shrink from it. I never do that.’
'我希望不是;但如果她这么做了，我也不会退缩。我从来没有这样做。'

‘She strikes me as very natural,’ said Ralph.
“我觉得她很自然，”拉尔夫说。

‘Natural people are not the most trouble.’
“自然人并不是最麻烦的。”

‘No,’ said Ralph; ‘you yourself are a proof of that. You’re extremely natural, and I’m sure you have never troubled any one. It takes trouble to do that. But tell me this; it just occurs to me. Is Isabel capable of making herself disagreeable?’
“不，”拉尔夫说。 ‘你自己就是证明。你非常自然，我相信你从来没有给任何人带来过麻烦。做到这一点很麻烦。但请告诉我这一点；我只是想到了。伊莎贝尔有能力让自己变得不愉快吗？

‘Ah,’ cried his mother, ‘you ask too many questions! Find that out for yourself.’
“啊，”他妈妈叫道，“你问的问题太多了！”你自己找出来吧。

His questions, however, were not exhausted. ‘All this time,’ he said, ‘you’ve not told me what you intend to do with her.’
然而，他的问题还没有穷尽。 “一直以来，”他说，“你都没有告诉我你打算对她做什么。”

‘Do with her? You talk as if she were a yard of calico. I shall do absolutely nothing with her, and she herself will do everything she chooses. She gave me notice of that.’
‘和她做什么？你说起话来就好像她是一码印花布。我绝对不会对她做任何事，她自己会做她选择的一切。她通知了我这一点。

‘What you meant then, in your telegram, was that her character’s independent.’
“当时你在电报中的意思是，她的性格是独立的。”

‘I never know what I mean in my telegrams—especially those I send from America. Clearness is too expensive. Come down to your father.’
“我从来不知道我在电报中的意思——尤其是那些我从美国发出的电报。清晰度太贵了。到你父亲那里去吧。

‘It’s not yet a quarter to eight,’ said Ralph.
“现在还不到八点一刻，”拉尔夫说。

‘I must allow for his impatience,’ Mrs. Touchett answered.
“我必须考虑到他的不耐烦，”图切特夫人回答道。

Ralph knew what to think of his father’s impatience; but, making no rejoinder, he offered his mother his arm. This put it in his power, as they descended together, to stop her a moment on the middle landing of the staircase—the broad, low, wide-armed staircase of time-blackened oak which was one of the most striking features of Gardencourt. ‘You’ve no plan of marrying her?’ he smiled.
拉尔夫知道如何看待他父亲的不耐烦。但他没有反驳，只是向母亲伸出了手臂。这使得当他们一起下楼时，他有能力在楼梯的中间平台上拦住她——宽阔、低矮、宽臂的楼梯，由经过时间熏黑的橡木制成，是花园庭院最引人注目的特征之一。 “你没有娶她的计划吗？”他微笑道。

‘Marrying her? I should be sorry to play her such a trick! But apart from that, she’s perfectly able to marry herself. She has every facility.’
‘娶她？我应该很抱歉玩弄她吧！但除此之外，她完全可以嫁给自己。她拥有一切设施。

‘Do you mean to say she has a husband picked out?’
“你的意思是说她已经选好了丈夫？”

‘I don’t know about a husband, but there’s a young man in Boston-!’
“我不知道丈夫是谁，但波士顿有一个年轻人——！”

Ralph went on; he had no desire to hear about the young man in Boston. ‘As my father says, they’re always engaged!’
拉尔夫继续说道。他不想听到波士顿那个年轻人的事。 “正如我父亲所说，他们总是订婚的！”

His mother had told him that he must satisfy his curiosity at the source, and it soon became evident he should not want for occasion. He had a good deal of talk with his young kinswoman when the two had been left together in the drawing-room. Lord Warburton, who had ridden over from his own house, some ten miles distant, remounted and took his departure before dinner; and an hour after this meal was ended Mr. and Mrs. Touchett, who appeared to have quite emptied the measure of their forms, withdrew, under the valid pretext of fatigue, to their respective apartments. The young man spent an hour with his cousin; though she had been travelling half the day she appeared in no degree spent. She was really tired; she knew it, and knew she should pay for it on the morrow; but it was her habit at this period to carry exhaustion to the furtherest point and confess to it only when dissimulation broke down. A fine hypocrisy was for the present possible; she was interested; she was, as she said to herself, floated. She asked Ralph to show her the pictures; there were a great many in the house, most of them of his own choosing. The best were arranged in an oaken gallery, of charming proportions, which had a sitting-room at either end of it and which in the evening was usually lighted. The light was insufficient to show the pictures to advantage, and the visit might have stood over to the morrow. This suggestion Ralph had ventured to make; but Isabel looked disappointedsmiling still, however—and said: ‘If you please I should like to see them just a little.’ She was eager, she knew she was eager and now seemed so; she couldn’t help it. ‘She doesn’t take suggestions,’ Ralph said to himself; but he said it without irritation; her pressure amused and even pleased him. The lamps were on brackets, at intervals, and if the light was imperfect it was genial. It fell upon the vague squares of rich colour and on the faded gilding of heavy frames; it made a sheen on the polished floor of the gallery. Ralph took a candlestick and moved about, pointing out the things he liked; Isabel, inclining to one picture after another, indulged in little exclamations and murmurs. She was evidently a judge; she had a natural taste; he was struck with that. She took a candlestick herself and held it slowly here and there; she lifted it high, and as she did so he found himself pausing in the middle of the place and bending his eyes much less upon the pictures than on her presence. He lost nothing, in truth, by these wandering glances, for she was better worth looking at than most works of art. She was undeniably spare, and ponderably light, and proveably tall; when people had wished to distinguish her from the other two Miss Archers they had always called her the willowy one. Her hair, which was dark even to blackness, had been an object of envy to many women; her light grey eyes, a little too firm perhaps in her graver moments, had an enchanting range of concession. They walked slowly up one side of the gallery and down the other, and then she said:
他的母亲告诉他，他必须从源头满足他的好奇心，很快他就发现他不应该想要这样的机会。当他和年轻的亲戚一起留在客厅时，他和他聊了很多。沃伯顿勋爵从十英里外的自己家里骑马过来，在晚饭前重新上马出发。这顿饭结束一小时后，图切特先生和夫人似乎已经清空了他们的表格，以疲劳为借口，回到了各自的公寓。年轻人和他的表弟待了一个小时。尽管她已经走了半天，但她看上去并没有花太多时间。她真的很累了；她知道这一点，也知道她应该在第二天还清这笔钱。但她这个时期的习惯是，把疲惫推到极致，只有在掩饰崩溃的时候才承认。目前，一种微妙的虚伪是可能的。她很感兴趣；正如她对自己说的，她是漂浮的。她请拉尔夫给她看这些照片；房子里有很多人，其中大多数都是他自己选择的。最好的作品被安排在一个比例迷人的橡木画廊里，画廊的两端各有一个起居室，晚上通常有灯光。由于光线不足，无法充分展示照片，这次访问可能会推迟到明天。拉尔夫大胆提出了这个建议。但伊莎贝尔看起来很失望，但她仍然微笑着说：“如果你愿意的话，我想见见他们一点。”她很渴望，她知道自己很渴望，现在看来也是如此；她很渴望。她情不自禁。 “她不接受建议，”拉尔夫自言自语道。但他说这话时并没有生气。她的压力让他感到好笑，甚至高兴。 灯间隔地安装在支架上，即使光线不完美，也很温暖。它落在色彩丰富的模糊方块上，落在沉重框架褪色的镀金上；它在画廊抛光的地板上闪闪发光。拉尔夫拿着一个烛台走来走去，指出他喜欢的东西。伊莎贝尔一边欣赏着一张又一张的照片，一边发出小声的感叹和低语。她显然是一名法官；她有一种天生的品味；他对此感到震惊。她自己拿了一个烛台，慢慢地举在各处。她把它举得高高的，当她这么做的时候，他发现自己停在了这个地方的中间，他的目光更多地集中在她的存在上，而不是那些照片上。事实上，这些徘徊的目光并没有给他带来任何损失，因为她比大多数艺术品更值得一看。无可否认，她很瘦弱，而且很轻，而且身材很高。当人们想把她与另外两位阿彻小姐区分开来时，他们总是称她为“柳条小姐”。她的头发乌黑得甚至乌黑，曾是许多女人羡慕的对象。她那双浅灰色的眼睛，在她严肃的时刻也许显得有些过于坚定，却有一种令人着迷的让步。 他们慢慢地从画廊的一侧走到另一侧，然后她说：

‘Well, now I know more than I did when I began!’
“好吧，现在我比刚开始时知道的更多了！”

‘You apparently have a great passion for knowledge,’ her cousin returned.
“你显然对知识充满热情，”她的表弟回答道。

‘I think I have; most girls are horridly ignorant.’
“我想我有；大多数女孩都非常无知。”

‘You strike me as different from most girls.’
“我觉得你与大多数女孩不同。”

‘Ah, some of them would—but the way they’re talked to!’ murmured Isabel, who preferred not to dilate just yet on herself. Then in a moment, to change the subject, ‘Please tell me—isn’t there a ghost?’ she went on.
“啊，他们中的一些人会——但是他们说话的方式！”伊莎贝尔低声说道，她暂时不想透露自己的情况。过了一会儿，她改变了话题，“请告诉我——是不是有鬼？”她继续说道。

‘A ghost?’
“鬼魂？”

‘A castle-spectre, a thing that appears. We call them ghosts in America.’
“一个城堡幽灵，一个出现的东西。在美国我们称他们为幽灵。

‘So we do here, when we see them.’
“当我们看到他们时，我们也会这样做。”

‘You do see them then? You ought to, in this romantic old house.’
‘那你确实看到他们了吗？你应该这么做，在这座浪漫的老房子里。”

‘It’s not a romantic old house,’ said Ralph. ‘You’ll be disappointed if you count on that. It’s a dismally prosaic one; there’s no romance here but what you may have brought with you.’
“这不是一座浪漫的老房子，”拉尔夫说。 ‘如果你指望这一点，你会失望的。这是一部平淡无奇的作品；这里没有浪漫，只有你可能带来的东西。

‘I’ve brought a great deal; but it seems to me I’ve brought it to the right place.’
“我带来了很多东西；但在我看来，我已经把它带到了正确的地方。”

‘To keep it out of harm, certainly; nothing will ever happen to it here, between my father and me.’
“当然是为了让它免受伤害；在这里，我和父亲之间不会发生任何事情。

Isabel looked at him a moment. ‘Is there never any one here but your father and you?’
伊莎贝尔看了他一会儿。 “除了你父亲和你之外，这里就没有其他人了吗？”

‘My mother, of course.’
“当然是我妈妈。”

‘Oh, I know your mother; she’s not romantic. Haven’t you other people?’
“哦，我认识你的母亲；她不浪漫。你们其他人没有吗？

‘Very few.’
'很少。'

‘I’m sorry for that; I like so much to see people.’
“我对此感到抱歉；我非常喜欢见到人。

‘Oh, we’ll invite all the county to amuse you,’ said Ralph.
“哦，我们会邀请全县的人来逗你玩，”拉尔夫说。

‘Now you’re making fun of me,’ the girl answered rather gravely. ‘Who was the gentleman on the lawn when I arrived?’
“现在你在取笑我了。”女孩相当严肃地回答。 “我到达时草坪上的那位先生是谁？”

‘A county neighbour; he doesn’t come very often.’
‘一个县邻居；他不常来。

‘I’m sorry for that; I liked him,’ said Isabel.
“我对此感到抱歉；我喜欢他，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘Why, it seemed to me that you barely spoke to him,’ Ralph objected.
“哎呀，我觉得你几乎没跟他说话，”拉尔夫反对道。

‘Never mind, I like him all the same. I like your father too, immensely.’
‘没关系，我还是喜欢他。我也非常喜欢你的父亲。

‘You can’t do better than that. He’s the dearest of the dear.’
‘你不能做得比这更好了。他是亲爱的中的最爱。

‘I’m so sorry he is ill,’ said Isabel.
“我很抱歉他病了，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘You must help me to nurse him; you ought to be a good nurse.’
‘你必须帮我护理他；你应该是一名好护士。

‘I don’t think I am; I’ve been told I’m not; I’m said to have too many theories. But you haven’t told me about the ghost,’ she added.
‘我不认为我是；有人告诉我我不是；据说我的理论太多了。但你还没有告诉我关于鬼魂的事，”她补充道。

Ralph, however, gave no heed to this observation. ‘You like my father and you like Lord Warburton. I infer also that you like my mother.’
然而，拉尔夫没有理会这一观察。 “你喜欢我父亲，也喜欢沃伯顿勋爵。我还推断你喜欢我的母亲。

‘I like your mother very much, because—because-’ And Isabel found herself attempting to assign a reason for her affection for Mrs. Touchett.
“我非常喜欢你的母亲，因为——因为——”伊莎贝尔发现自己正试图为她对图切特夫人的喜爱找到一个理由。

‘Ah, we never know why!’ said her companion, laughing.
“啊，我们永远不知道为什么！”她的同伴笑着说道。

‘I always know why,’ the girl answered. ‘It’s because she doesn’t expect one to like her. She doesn’t care whether one does or not.’
“我总是知道为什么，”女孩回答。 ‘这是因为她不希望有人喜欢她。她不在乎人们是否这样做。

‘So you adore her—out of perversity? Well, I take greatly after my mother,’ said Ralph.
“所以你崇拜她——出于任性？嗯，我很像我的母亲，”拉尔夫说。

‘I don’t believe you do at all. You wish people to like you, and you try to make them do it.’
‘我根本不相信你会这么做。你希望人们喜欢你，并且你努力让他们这么做。

‘Good heavens, how you see through one!’ he cried with a dismay that was not altogether jocular.
“天哪，你怎么能看透一个人！”他沮丧地喊道，但并不完全是玩笑。

‘But I like you all the same,’ his cousin went on. ‘The way to clinch the matter will be to show me the ghost.’
“但我还是喜欢你，”他的表弟继续说道。 “解决问题的办法就是让我看看鬼魂。”

Ralph shook his head sadly. ‘I might show it to you, but you’d never see it. The privilege isn’t given to every one; it’s not enviable. It has never been seen by a young, happy, innocent person like you. You must have suffered first, have suffered greatly, have gained some miserable knowledge. In that way your eyes are opened to it. I saw it long ago,’ said Ralph.
拉尔夫悲伤地摇摇头。 “我可能会把它展示给你，但你永远不会看到它。并不是每个人都享有这种特权；这并不令人羡慕。像你这样年轻、快乐、天真的人从来没有见过这样的事。你一定先受了苦，受了很大的苦，得到了一些悲惨的知识。这样你的眼睛就会被打开。我很久以前就看到了，”拉尔夫说。

‘I told you just now I’m very fond of knowledge,’ Isabel answered.
“我刚才告诉过你我非常喜欢知识，”伊莎贝尔回答道。

‘Yes, of happy knowledge—of pleasant knowledge. But you haven’t suffered, and you’re not made to suffer. I hope you’ll never see the ghost!’
‘是的，快乐的知识——快乐的知识。但你没有受苦，你也不是被迫受苦的。我希望你永远都看不到鬼魂！”

She had listened to him attentively, with a smile on her lips, but with a certain gravity in her eyes. Charming as he found her, she had struck him as rather presumptuous—indeed it was a part of her charm; and he wondered what she would say. ‘I’m not afraid, you know,’ she said: which seemed quite presumptuous enough.
她聚精会神地听他说话，嘴角挂着微笑，但眼神却带着几分严肃。他发现她很迷人，但他却觉得她相当自以为是——事实上，这是她魅力的一部分；他想知道她会说什么。 “我不害怕，你知道，”她说，这似乎很自以为是。

‘You’re not afraid of suffering?’
“你不怕苦吗？”

‘Yes, I’m afraid of suffering. But I’m not afraid of ghosts. And I think people suffer too easily,’ she added.
‘是的，我害怕受苦。但我不怕鬼。我认为人们太容易受苦了，”她补充道。

‘I don’t believe you do,’ said Ralph, looking at her with his hands in his pockets.
“我不相信你会这么做，”拉尔夫说，双手插在口袋里看着她。

‘I don’t think that’s a fault,’ she answered. ‘It’s not absolutely necessary to suffer; we were not made for that.’
“我不认为这是一个错误，”她回答道。 ‘受苦并不是绝对必要的；我们不是为此而生的。”

‘You were not, certainly.’
“当然，你不是。”

‘I’m not speaking of myself.’ And she wandered off a little.
“我不是在说我自己。”然后她走开了一点。

‘No, it isn’t a fault,’ said her cousin. ‘It’s a merit to be strong.’
“不，这不是一个错误，”她的表弟说。 “坚强是一种优点。”

‘Only, if you don’t suffer they call you hard,’ Isabel remarked.
“只是，如果你不受苦，他们就会说你很坚强，”伊莎贝尔说。

They passed out of the smaller drawing-room, into which they had returned from the gallery, and paused in the hall, at the foot of the staircase. Here Ralph presented his companion with her bedroom candle, which he had taken from a niche. ‘Never mind what they call you. When you do suffer they call you an idiot. The great point’s to be as happy as possible.’
他们从画廊返回的小客厅里出来，在大厅的楼梯脚下停下来。拉尔夫向他的同伴赠送了她卧室的蜡烛，这是他从壁龛里拿来的。 ‘别介意他们怎么称呼你。当你确实受苦时，他们会称你为白痴。最重要的是要尽可能快乐。

She looked at him a little; she had taken her candle and placed her foot on the oaken stair. ‘Well,’ she said, ‘that’s what I came to Europe for, to be as happy as possible. Good-night.’
她稍微看了他一眼；她拿起蜡烛，把脚踩在橡木楼梯上。 “嗯，”她说，“这就是我来欧洲的目的，尽可能快乐。”晚安。'

‘Good-night! I wish you all success, and shall be very glad to contribute to it!’
'晚安！我祝愿你们一切成功，并很高兴为此做出贡献！”

She turned away, and he watched her as she slowly ascended. Then, with his hands always in his pockets, he went back to the empty drawing-room.
她转过身去，他看着她慢慢上升。然后，他双手插在口袋里，回到空荡荡的客厅。

Chapter 6
第6章

Isabel Archer was a young person of many theories; her imagination was remarkably active. It had been her fortune to possess a finer mind than most of the persons among whom her lot was cast; to have a larger perception of surrounding facts and to care for knowledge that was tinged with the unfamiliar. It is true that among her contemporaries she passed for a young woman of extraordinary profundity; for these excellent people never withheld their admiration from a reach of intellect of which they themselves were not conscious, and spoke of Isabel as a prodigy of learning, a creature reported to have read the classic authors—in translations. Her paternal aunt, Mrs. Varian, once spread the rumour that Isabel was writing a book—Mrs. Varian having a reverence for books, and averred that the girl would distinguish herself in print. Mrs. Varian thought highly of literature, for which she entertained that esteem that is connected with a sense of privation. Her own large house, remarkable for its assortment of mosaic tables and decorated ceilings, was unfurnished with a library, and in the way of printed volumes contained nothing but half a dozen novels in paper on a shelf in the apartment of one of the Miss Varians. Practically, Mrs. Varian’s acquaintance with literature was confined to The New York Interviewer; as she very justly said, after you had read the Interviewer you had lost all faith in culture. Her tendency, with this, was rather to keep the Interviewer out of the way of her daughters; she was determined to bring them up properly, and they read nothing at all. Her impression with regard to Isabel’s labours was quite illusory; the girl had never attempted to write a book and had no desire for the laurels of authorship. She had no talent for expression and too little of the consciousness of genius; she only had a general idea that people were right when they treated her as if she were rather superior. Whether or no she were superior, people were right in admiring her if they thought her so; for it seemed to her often that her mind moved more quickly than theirs, and this encouraged an impatience that might easily be confounded with superiority. It may be affirmed without delay that Isabel was probably very liable to the sin of self-esteem; she often surveyed with complacency the field of her own nature; she was in the habit of taking for granted, on scanty evidence, that she was right; she treated herself to occasions of homage. Meanwhile her errors and delusions were frequently such as a biographer interested in preserving the dignity of his subject must shrink from specifying. Her thoughts were a tangle of vague outlines which had never been corrected by the judgement of people speaking with authority. In matters of opinion she had had her own way, and it had led her into a thousand ridiculous zigzags. At moments she discovered she was grotesquely wrong, and then she treated herself to a week of passionate humility. After this she held her head higher than ever again; for it was of no use, she had an unquenchable desire to think well of herself. She had a theory that it was only under this provision life was worth living; that one should be one of the best, should be conscious of a fine organization (she couldn’t help knowing her organization was fine), should move in a realm of light, of natural wisdom, of happy impulse, of inspiration gracefully chronic. It was almost as unnecessary to cultivate doubt of one’s self as to cultivate doubt of one’s best friend: one should try to be one’s own best friend and to give one’s self, in this manner, distinguished company. The girl had a certain nobleness of imagination which rendered her a good many services and played her a great many tricks. She spent half her time in thinking of beauty and bravery and magnanimity; she had a fixed determination to regard the world as a place of brightness, of free expansion, of irresistible action: she held it must be detestable to be afraid or ashamed. She had an infinite hope that she should never do anything wrong. She had resented so strongly, after discovering them, her mere errors of feeling (the discovery always made her tremble as if she had escaped from a trap which might have caught her and smothered her) that the chance of inflicting a sensible injury upon another person, presented only as a contingency, caused her at moments to hold her breath. That always struck her as the worst thing that could happen to her. On the whole, reflectively, she was in no uncertainty about the things that were wrong. She had no love of their look, but when she fixed them hard she recognized them. It was wrong to be mean, to be jealous, to be false, to be cruel; she had seen very little of the evil of the world, but she had seen women who lied and who tried to hurt each other. Seeing such things had quickened her high spirit; it seemed indecent not to scorn them. Of course the danger of a high spirit was the danger of inconsistency—the danger of keeping up the flag after the place has surrendered; a sort of behaviour so crooked as to be almost a dishonour to the flag. But Isabel, who knew little of the sorts of artillery to which young women are exposed, flattered herself that such contradictions would never be noted in her own conduct. Her life should always be in harmony with the most pleasing impression she should produce; she would be what she appeared, and she would appear what she was. Sometimes she went so far as to wish that she might find herself some day in a difficult position, so that she should have the pleasure of being as heroic as the occasion demanded. Altogether, with her meagre knowledge, her inflated ideals, her confidence at once innocent and dogmatic, her temper at once exacting and indulgent, her mixture of curiosity and fastidiousness, of vivacity and indifference, her desire to look very well and to be if possible even better, her determination to see, to try, to know, her combination of the delicate, desultory, flame-like spirit and the eager and personal creature of conditions: she would be an easy victim of scientific criticism if she were not intended to awaken on the reader’s part an impulse more tender and more purely expectant.
伊莎贝尔·阿切尔是一位有着多种理论的年轻人。她的想象力非常活跃。她很幸运，拥有比她所在的大多数人更聪明的头脑。对周围的事实有更广泛的认识，并关心那些不熟悉的知识。确实，在她的同代人中，她被认为是一位具有非凡深度的年轻女性。因为这些优秀的人从不掩饰对他们自己没有意识到的才智的钦佩，并称伊莎贝尔为学识奇才，据报道是一个读过经典作家的译本的人。她的姨妈瓦里安夫人曾经散布谣言说伊莎贝尔正在写一本书——瓦里安夫人。瓦里安对书籍怀有崇敬之情，并断言这个女孩会在印刷品中脱颖而出。瓦里安夫人对文学评价很高，她对文学的尊重与匮乏感有关。她自己的大房子以其各种各样的马赛克桌子和装饰性的天花板而闻名，但没有配备图书馆，以印刷书籍的方式，除了瓦里安小姐公寓的书架上的六本纸质小说外，什么也没有。 。实际上，瓦里安夫人对文学的了解仅限于《纽约采访者》。正如她非常公正地所说，读完《采访者》之后，你就对文化失去了所有信心。她的倾向是不让采访者妨碍她的女儿们。她决心好好教育他们，但他们什么也没读。她对伊莎贝尔的工作的印象很虚幻。这个女孩从未尝试过写书，也不渴望获得作者的桂冠。 她没有表达的天赋，也缺乏天才的意识。她只知道，当人们对待她好像她很优越时，他们就是对的。不管她是否高人一等，人们只要这样认为她，钦佩她就是对的。因为她常常觉得自己的思维比他们更快，这助长了一种不耐烦的情绪，很容易与优越感混为一谈。可以毫不拖延地肯定，伊莎贝尔可能很容易犯自尊罪。她经常沾沾自喜地审视自己的本性领域。她习惯于在证据不足的情况下理所当然地认为自己是对的。她对待自己充满敬意。与此同时，她的错误和错觉经常发生，以至于一个热衷于维护其主题尊严的传记作者必须回避具体说明。她的思想是一团模糊的轮廓，从来没有被权威人士的判断所纠正过。在观点问题上，她有自己的方式，这使她陷入了一千个可笑的曲折。有时她发现自己错得离谱，然后她用一周的热情谦卑对待自己。此后，她再次把头昂得更高。因为这没有用，她有一种无法抑制的自我评价的欲望。她有一个理论，只有在这种规定下，生活才值得过。一个人应该是最好的人之一，应该意识到一个优秀的组织（她情不自禁地知道她的组织很好），应该在光明、自然智慧、快乐冲动、优雅地长期灵感的境界中前进。 培养对自己的怀疑几乎和培养对自己最好的朋友的怀疑一样没有必要：一个人应该努力成为自己最好的朋友，并以这种方式为自己提供杰出的陪伴。这个女孩有一定的高尚的想象力，这为她提供了很多帮助，也给她玩了很多把戏。她一半的时间都在思考美丽、勇敢和宽宏；她坚定地决心将世界视为一个光明的地方，一个自由扩张的地方，一个不可抗拒的行动之地：她认为害怕或羞耻一定是可憎的。她有无限的希望，希望自己永远不要做错事。在发现它们之后，她对自己的感觉错误感到如此强烈（这个发现总是让她颤抖，好像她从一个可能会抓住她并窒息她的陷阱中逃脱），以至于对另一个人造成明显伤害的机会仅仅作为偶然事件出现，让她时不时屏住呼吸。这总是让她觉得这是可能发生在她身上的最糟糕的事情。总的来说，经过反思，她并不确定哪里出了问题。她不喜欢它们的样子，但当她用力固定它们时，她认出了它们。卑鄙、嫉妒、虚伪、残忍都是错误的；她很少见识过世界上的邪恶，但她见过那些撒谎、试图互相伤害的女人。看到这些，她的精神振奋起来。不蔑视他们似乎是不礼貌的。当然，情绪高涨的危险在于前后不一致的危险——在地方投降后仍高举旗帜的危险；这种行为如此扭曲，几乎是对国旗的侮辱。 但伊莎贝尔对年轻女性所面临的炮火种类知之甚少，她自以为自己的行为永远不会注意到这种矛盾。她的生活应该始终与她应该给人留下的最令人愉快的印象相协调；她将成为她所表现的样子，她也会表现出她本来的样子。有时她甚至希望有一天自己会陷入困境，这样她就可以在需要时表现出英雄般的快乐。总而言之，她的知识贫乏，她的理想膨胀，她的自信既纯真又教条，她的脾气既严格又放纵，她的好奇心和挑剔的混合体，活泼和冷漠的混合体，她渴望看起来很好，如果可能的话更好的是，她决心去观察、去尝试、去了解，她将精致、杂乱、火焰般的精神与条件的渴望和个人创造结合起来：如果她不打算这样做，她很容易成为科学批评的受害者。唤醒读者的一种更温柔、更纯粹的期待的冲动。

It was one of her theories that Isabel Archer was very fortunate in being independent, and that she ought to make some very enlightened use of that state. She never called it the state of solitude, much less of singleness; she thought such descriptions weak, and, besides, her sister Lily constantly urged her to come and abide. She had a friend whose acquaintance she had made shortly before her father’s death, who offered so high an example of useful activity that Isabel always thought of her as a model. Henrietta Stackpole had the advantage of an admired ability; she was thoroughly launched in journalism, and her letters to the Interviewer, from Washington, Newport, the White Mountains and other places, were universally quoted. Isabel pronounced them with confidence ‘ephemeral,’ but she esteemed the courage, energy and good-humour of the writer, who, without parents and without property, had adopted three of the children of an infirm and widowed sister and was paying their school-bills out of the proceeds of her literary labour. Henrietta was in the van of progress and had clear-cut views on most subjects; her cherished desire had long been to come to Europe and write a series of letters to the Interviewer from the radical point of view—an enterprise the less difficult as she knew perfectly in advance what her opinions would be and to how many objections most European institutions lay open. When she heard that Isabel was coming she wished to start at once; thinking, naturally, that it would be delightful the two should travel together. She had been obliged, however, to postpone this enterprise. She thought Isabel a glorious creature, and had spoken of her covertly in some of her letters, though she never mentioned the fact to her friend, who would not have taken pleasure in it and was not a regular student of the Interviewer. Henrietta, for Isabel, was chiefly a proof that a woman might suffice to herself and be happy. Her resources were of the obvious kind; but even if one had not the journalistic talent and a genius for guessing, as Henrietta said, what the public was going to want, one was not therefore to conclude that one had no vocation, no beneficent aptitude of any sort, and resign one’s self to being frivolous and hollow. Isabel was stoutly determined not to be hollow. If one should wait with the right patience one would find some happy work to one’s hand. Of course, among her theories, this young lady was not without a collection of views on the subject of marriage. The first on the list was a conviction of the vulgarity of thinking too much of it. From lapsing into eagerness on this point she earnestly prayed she might be delivered; she held that a woman ought to be able to live to herself, in the absence of exceptional flimsiness, and that it was perfectly possible to be happy without the society of a more or less coarse-minded person of another sex. The girl’s prayer was very sufficiently answered; something pure and proud that there was in her—something cold and dry an unappreciated suitor with a taste for analysis might have called it—had hitherto kept her from any great vanity of conjecture on the article of possible husbands. Few of the men she saw seemed worth a ruinous expenditure, and it made her smile to think that one of them should present himself as an incentive to hope and a reward of patience. Deep in her soul—it was the deepest thing there—lay a belief that if a certain light should dawn she could give herself completely; but this image, on the whole, was too formidable to be attractive. Isabel’s thoughts hovered about it, but they seldom rested on it long; after a little it ended in alarms. It often seemed to her that she thought too much about herself; you could have made her colour, any day in the year, by calling her a rank egoist. She was always planning out her development, desiring her perfection, observing her progress. Her nature had, in her conceit, a certain garden-like quality, a suggestion of perfume and murmuring boughs, of shady bowers and lengthening vistas, which made her feel that introspection was, after all, an exercise in the open air, and that a visit to the recesses of one’s spirit was harmless when one returned from it with a lapful of roses. But she was often reminded that there were other gardens in the world than those of her remarkable soul, and that there were moreover a great many places which were not gardens at allonly dusky pestiferous tracts, planted thick with ugliness and misery. In the current of that repaid episode on curiosity on which she had lately been floating, which had conveyed her to this beautiful old England and might carry her much further still, she often checked herself with the thought of the thousands of people who were less happy than herself—a thought which for the moment made her fine, full consciousness appear a kind of immodesty. What should one do with the misery of the world in a scheme of the agreeable for one’s self? It must be confessed that this question never held her long. She was too young, too impatient to live, too unacquainted with pain. She always returned to her theory that a young woman whom after all every one thought clever should begin by getting a general impression of life. This impression was necessary to prevent mistakes, and after it should be secured she might make the unfortunate condition of others a subject of special attention.
她的理论之一是，伊莎贝尔·阿切尔很幸运能够独立，她应该非常开明地利用这种状态。她从来不称其为孤独的状态，更不用说单身了。她认为这样的描述很站不住脚，而且，她的妹妹莉莉不断地催促她过来并遵守。她有一个朋友，她在她父亲去世前不久结识的，这位朋友在有益的活动中树立了很高的榜样，伊莎贝尔一直把她视为榜样。亨丽埃塔·斯塔克波尔（Henrietta Stackpole）拥有令人钦佩的能力。她彻底投身于新闻事业，她从华盛顿、纽波特、怀特山和其他地方写给《采访者》的信被普遍引用。伊莎贝尔自信地宣称它们是“短暂的”，但她尊重作家的勇气、精力和幽默感，这位作家在没有父母和财产的情况下，收养了一个体弱寡妇的姐妹的三个孩子，并支付他们的学费——从她的文学劳动收入中支出。亨利埃塔是进步的先锋，对大多数主题都有明确的看法。她长期以来一直渴望来到欧洲，从激进的角度给采访者写一系列信——这是一项不太困难的事业，因为她事先完全知道自己的观点是什么，以及大多数欧洲机构有多少反对意见敞开着。当她听说伊莎贝尔要来时，她希望立即出发。自然而然地，两人一起旅行会很愉快。然而，她不得不推迟这项计划。 她认为伊莎贝尔是一个光荣的人物，并在她的一些信中偷偷地谈到了她，尽管她从未向她的朋友提及这一事实，她的朋友不会对此感到高兴，而且也不是采访者的正式学生。对于伊莎贝尔来说，亨丽埃塔主要是一个证明，证明女人可以满足自己并且幸福。她的资源是显而易见的。但是，即使一个人没有新闻天赋，也没有像亨丽埃塔所说的猜测公众想要什么的天赋，人们也不能因此得出结论说一个人没有职业，没有任何类型的慈善才能，并放弃自己。变得轻浮和空洞。伊莎贝尔决心不空虚。如果一个人以适当的耐心等待，就会找到一些令人愉快的工作。当然，在她的理论中，这位小姐对婚姻这个话题也并非没有一套看法。第一个是坚信想得太多是粗俗的。她在这一点上陷入了急切之中，她恳切地祈祷自己能获救。她认为，女人应该能够独立生活，而不是异常脆弱，而且即使没有与或多或少粗俗的异性交往，也完全有可能获得幸福。女孩的祈祷得到了充分的回应。她身上有一种纯洁而骄傲的东西——一种冷漠而干燥的东西，一个不被赏识、有分析品味的追求者可能会称之为这种东西——迄今为止使她对可能的丈夫的文章没有任何巨大的虚荣猜想。她所见到的人中，似乎没有一个值得付出毁灭性的代价，一想到他们中的一个人应该把自己表现为希望的激励和耐心的奖励，她就不禁微笑起来。 在她的灵魂深处——这是那里最深的东西——有一个信念：如果某一道曙光出现，她就能完全奉献自己；但总体而言，这个形象太可怕了，没有吸引力。伊莎贝尔的思绪在这件事上徘徊，但很少停留在这个问题上太久。过了一会儿，它就以警报结束了。她常常觉得自己想得太多了。你可以在一年中的任何一天称她为极端的利己主义者，从而让她颜面尽失。她总是规划自己的发展，渴望她的完美，观察她的进步。在她的自负中，她的天性具有某种花园般的品质，暗示着香水和低语的树枝，暗示着阴凉的凉亭和漫长的远景，这让她觉得内省毕竟是一种在露天的练习，而且当一个人带着一捧玫瑰回来时，对一个人精神深处的访问是无害的。但人们常常提醒她，除了她非凡的灵魂的花园之外，世界上还有其他花园，而且还有很多地方根本不是花园，只有昏暗的瘟疫之地，长满了丑陋和痛苦。她最近在好奇心的回报下漂流，这把她带到了这个美丽的古老英格兰，并可能带她走得更远，她经常检查自己对成千上万不那么幸福的人的想法。比她自己更重要——这个想法暂时让她那良好、完整的意识显得有点不谦虚。一个人应该如何以一种对自己有利的方式来对待世界的苦难呢？必须承认，这个问题并没有让她久久不能解。她还太年轻，对生活太不耐烦，对痛苦太不熟悉。 她总是回到她的理论，即一个毕竟每个人都认为聪明的年轻女子应该从对生活有一个总体印象开始。这种印象对于防止错误是必要的，在获得这种印象后，她可能会特别关注别人的不幸状况。

England was a revelation to her, and she found herself as diverted as a child at a pantomime. In her infantine excursions to Europe she had seen only the Continent, and seen it from the nursery window; Paris, not London, was her father’s Mecca, and into many of his interests there his children had naturally not entered. The images of that time moreover had grown faint and remote, and the old-world quality in everything that she now saw had all the charm of strangeness. Her uncle’s house seemed a picture made real; no refinement of the agreeable was lost upon Isabel; the rich perfection of Gardencourt at once revealed a world and gratified a need. The large, low rooms, with brown ceilings and dusky corners, the deep embrasures and curious casements, the quiet light on dark, polished panels, the deep greenness outside, that seemed always peeping in, the sense of well-ordered privacy in the centre of a ‘property’—a place where sounds were felicitously accidental, where the tread was muffled by the earth itself and in the thick mild air all friction dropped out of contact and all shrillness out of talkthese things were much to the taste of our young lady, whose taste played a considerable part in her emotions. She formed a fast friendship with her uncle, and often sat by his chair when he had had it moved out to the lawn. He passed hours in the open air, sitting with folded hands like a placid, homely household god, a god of service, who had done his work and received his wages and was trying to grow used to weeks and months made up only of off-days. Isabel amused him more than she suspected—the effect she produced upon people was often different from what she supposed—and he frequently gave himself the pleasure of making her chatter. It was by this term that he qualified her conversation, which had much of the ‘point’ observable in that of the young ladies of her country, to whom the ear of the world is more directly presented than to their sisters in other lands. Like the mass of American girls Isabel had been encouraged to express herself; her remarks had been attended to; she had been expected to have emotions and opinions. Many of her opinions had doubtless but a slender value, many of her emotions passed away in the utterance; but they had left a trace in giving her the habit of seeming at least to feel and think, and in imparting moreover to her words when she was really moved that prompt vividness which so many people had regarded as a sign of superiority. Mr. Touchett used to think that she reminded him of his wife when his wife was in her teens. It was because she was fresh and natural and quick to understand, to speak—so many characteristics of her niece—that he had fallen in love with Mrs. Touchett. He never expressed this analogy to the girl herself, however; for if Mrs. Touchett had once been like Isabel, Isabel was not at all like Mrs. Touchett. The old man was full of kindness for her; it was a long time, as he said, since they had had any young life in the house; and our rustling, quickly-moving, clear-voiced heroine was as agreeable to his sense as the sound of flowing water. He wanted to do something for her and wished she would ask it of him. She would ask nothing but questions; it is true that of these she asked a quantity. Her uncle had a great fund of answers, though her pressure sometimes came in forms that puzzled him. She questioned him immensely about England, about the British constitution, the English character, the state of politics, the manners and customs of the royal family, the peculiarities of the aristocracy, the way of living and thinking of his neighbours; and in begging to be enlightened on these points she usually enquired whether they corresponded with the descriptions in the books. The old man always looked at her a little with his fine dry smile while he smoothed down the shawl spread across his legs.
英国对她来说是一种启示，她发现自己就像一个看哑剧的孩子一样开心。在她婴儿时期去欧洲旅行时，她只看到过欧洲大陆，而且是从育婴室的窗户里看到的。巴黎，而不是伦敦，是她父亲的圣地，他的孩子们自然不会涉足那里的许多兴趣。而且，那时的景象已经变得模糊而遥远，而她现在看到的一切都具有旧世界的品质，充满了陌生的魅力。她叔叔的房子就像是一幅真实的图画。伊莎贝尔不遗余力地保持愉快的心情。花园庭院的丰富完美立刻揭示了一个世界并满足了一种需要。又大又低的房间，有棕色的天花板和昏暗的角落，深深的射孔和奇怪的窗扉，黑暗、抛光的面板上安静的光线，外面深邃的绿色，似乎总是在偷看，中心有井然有序的隐私感一个“财产”——一个声音偶然发生的地方，那里的脚步声被大地本身所掩盖，在厚重而温和的空气中，所有的摩擦都不再发生接触，所有的尖利声都消失了——这些东西很适合我们年轻人的口味。女士，她的品味在她的情感中起着相当大的作用。她和叔叔建立了深厚的友谊，当他把椅子搬到草坪上时，她经常坐在他的椅子旁边。他在露天度过了几个小时，双手交叉坐着，就像一位平静、朴素的家神、服务之神，他已经完成了他的工作并领取了工资，并试图习惯几周和几个月只由副业组成的生活。天。伊莎贝尔比她想象的更让他开心——她对人们产生的影响常常与她想象的不同——而他经常以逗她闲聊为乐。 正是用这个词，他限定了她的谈话，其中有很多可以在她的国家的年轻女士们身上观察到的“要点”，对她们来说，世界的耳朵比她们在其他国家的姐妹们更直接地听到。和大多数美国女孩一样，伊莎贝尔也被鼓励表达自己的想法。她的言论已得到重视；人们期望她有情感和意见。她的很多意见无疑都没有多少价值，她的很多情感都在话语中消逝了。但它们留下了痕迹，让她至少养成了感觉和思考的习惯，而且当她真正感动时，她的言语也变得迅速生动，许多人认为这是优越感的标志。塔切特先生曾经认为她让他想起了他妻子十几岁时的妻子。正是因为她清新、自然、善解人意、善于言谈——她侄女的许多特点——他才爱上了图切特夫人。然而，他从未向女孩本人表达过这种类比。因为如果图切特夫人曾经像伊莎贝尔，那么伊莎贝尔就根本不像图切特夫人了。老人对她充满了善意；正如他所说，他们已经很久没有在房子里出现过年轻的生命了。我们沙沙作响、快速移动、声音清亮的女主人公就像流水的声音一样符合他的感觉。他想为她做点什么，也希望她能向他请求。她只会问问题。确实，她询问了其中的一些数量。她的叔叔有很多答案，尽管她的压力有时让他感到困惑。 她向他大量询问有关英国的情况，有关英国的宪法、英国的性格、政治状况、王室的举止和习俗、贵族的特点、邻居的生活方式和思维方式。在请求了解这些观点时，她通常会询问这些观点是否与书中的描述相符。老人一边抚平铺在腿上的围巾，一边总是带着干涩的微笑看着她。

‘The books?’ he once said; ‘well, I don’t know much about the books. You must ask Ralph about that. I’ve always ascertained for myself—got my information in the natural form. I never asked many questions even; I just kept quiet and took notice. Of course I’ve had very good opportunities—better than what a young lady would naturally have. I’m of an inquisitive disposition, though you mightn’t think it if you were to watch me: however much you might watch me I should be watching you more. I’ve been watching these people for upwards of thirty-five years, and I don’t hesitate to say that I’ve acquired considerable information. It’s a very fine country on the whole—finer perhaps than what we give it credit for on the other side. There are several improvements I should like to see introduced; but the necessity of them doesn’t seem to be generally felt as yet. When the necessity of a thing is generally felt they usually manage to accomplish it; but they seem to feel pretty comfortable about waiting till then. I certainly feel more at home among them than I expected to when I first came over; I suppose it’s because I’ve had a considerable degree of success. When you’re successful you naturally feel more at home.’
“书？”他有一次问。 ‘嗯，我对书本了解不多。你必须问拉尔夫这件事。我总是自己确定——以自然的形式获取我的信息。我什至从来没有问过很多问题；我只是保持沉默并注意。当然，我有过很好的机会——比一位年轻女士自然拥有的机会还要好。我是一个好奇的人，尽管如果你观察我，你可能不会这么想：无论你如何观察我，我都应该更多地观察你。我观察这些人已经超过三十五年了，我毫不犹豫地说我已经获得了相当多的信息。总的来说，这是一个非常好的国家——也许比我们所认为的另一边的国家还要好。我希望看到一些改进；但人们似乎还没有普遍意识到它们的必要性。当人们普遍认为某件事有必要时，他们通常会设法完成它；但他们似乎对等到那时感到很舒服。当然，我在他们中间感觉比我刚来时预想的更自在。我想这是因为我取得了相当大的成功。当你成功时，你自然会感到更加自在。”

‘Do you suppose that if I’m successful I shall feel at home?’ Isabel asked.
“你认为如果我成功了，我会有宾至如归的感觉吗？”伊莎贝尔问。

‘I should think it very probable, and you certainly will be successful. They like American young ladies very much over here; they show them a great deal of kindness. But you mustn’t feel too much at home, you know.’
“我觉得很有可能，你一定会成功的。”他们很喜欢这里的美国年轻女士；他们对他们表现出极大的善意。但你一定不能有太多宾至如归的感觉，你知道的。”

‘Oh, I’m by no means sure it will satisfy me,’ Isabel judicially emphasized. ‘I like the place very much, but I’m not sure I shall like the people.’
“哦，我绝对不确定它会让我满意，”伊莎贝尔公正地强调道。 “我非常喜欢这个地方，但我不确定我是否会喜欢这里的人。”

‘The people are very good people; especially if you like them.’
“人们都是很好的人；特别是如果你喜欢它们的话。”

‘I’ve no doubt they’re good,’ Isabel rejoined; ‘but are they pleasant in society? They won’t rob me nor beat me; but will they make themselves agreeable to me? That’s what I like people to do. I don’t hesitate to say so, because I always appreciate it. I don’t believe they’re very nice to girls; they’re not nice to them in the novels.’
“我毫不怀疑它们是好的，”伊莎贝尔回答道。 “但是他们在社会上令人愉快吗？”他们不会抢劫我，也不会殴打我；但他们会同意我的要求吗？这就是我喜欢人们做的事情。我毫不犹豫地说，因为我一直很感激。我不认为他们对女孩子很好；小说里的人对他们并不友善。

‘I don’t know about the novels,’ said Mr. Touchett. ‘I believe the novels have a great deal of ability, but I don’t suppose they’re very accurate. We once had a lady who wrote novels staying here; she was a friend of Ralph’s and he asked her down. She was very positive, quite up to everything; but she was not the sort of person you could depend on for evidence. Too free a fancy—I suppose that was it. She afterwards published a work of fiction in which she was understood to have given a representation—something in the nature of a caricature, as you might say—of my unworthy self. I didn’t read it, but Ralph just handed me the book with the principal passages marked. It was understood to be a description of my conversation; American peculiarities, nasal twang, Yankee notions, stars and stripes. Well, it was not at all accurate; she couldn’t have listened very attentively. I had no objection to her giving a report of my conversation, if she liked; but I didn’t like the idea that she hadn’t taken the trouble to listen to it. Of course I talk like an American—I can’t talk like a Hottentot. However I talk, I’ve made them understand me pretty well over here. But I don’t talk like the old gentleman in that lady’s novel. He wasn’t an American; we wouldn’t have him over there at any price. I just mention that fact to show you that they’re not always accurate. Of course, as I’ve no daughters, and as Mrs. Touchett resides in Florence, I haven’t had much chance to notice about the young ladies. It sometimes appears as if the young women in the lower class were not very well treated; but I guess their position is better in the upper and even to some extent in the middle.’
“我不了解小说，”图切特先生说。 “我相信这些小说很有能力，但我不认为它们非常准确。我们曾经住过一位写小说的女士；她是拉尔夫的朋友，他邀请她下来。她很积极，凡事都能做到。但她不是那种可以依靠的证据的人。太自由的幻想——我想就是这样。后来，她出版了一部小说，人们认为她在其中描绘了我卑微的自我——你可能会说，这是一种漫画性质的东西。我没有读过，但拉尔夫只是把这本书递给我，并标记了主要段落。这被理解为是对我谈话的描述；美国特色、鼻音、洋基观念、星条旗。嗯，这根本不准确。她不可能很专心地听。如果她愿意的话，我不反对她报告我的谈话。但我不喜欢她不肯费心去听。当然，我说话像美国人——我不能像霍屯督人那样说话。不管我怎么说，我已经让他们很好地理解了我。但我说话的方式不像那位女士小说里的老先生。他不是美国人；他是美国人。我们不惜任何代价也不会让他在那儿。我提到这个事实只是为了告诉你它们并不总是准确的。当然，由于我没有女儿，而且图切特夫人住在佛罗伦萨，所以我没有太多机会注意到年轻的女士们。有时，下层阶级的年轻女性似乎没有受到很好的对待。但我猜他们的位置在上层更好，甚至在某种程度上在中层。”

‘Gracious,’ Isabel exclaimed; ‘how many classes have they? About fifty, I suppose.’
“天哪，”伊莎贝尔喊道。 ‘他们有多少个班？我想大约有五十。”

‘Well, I don’t know that I ever counted them. I never took much notice of the classes. That’s the advantage of being an American here; you don’t belong to any class.’
“嗯，我不知道我有没有数过它们。我从来没有太注意这些课程。这就是作为美国人在这里的优势；你不属于任何阶级。

‘I hope so,’ said Isabel. ‘Imagine one’s belonging to an English class!’
“我希望如此，”伊莎贝尔说。 “想象一下，一个人正在上英语课！”

‘Well, I guess some of them are pretty comfortable—especially towards the top. But for me there are only two classes: the people I trust and the people I don’t. Of those two, my dear Isabel, you belong to the first.’
“嗯，我猜他们中的一些人相当舒服——尤其是在山顶。但对我来说只有两类：我信任的人和我不信任的人。在这两个人中，我亲爱的伊莎贝尔，你属于第一个。

‘I’m much obliged to you,’ said the girl quickly. Her way of taking compliments seemed sometimes rather dry; she got rid of them as rapidly as possible. But as regards this she was sometimes misjudged, she was thought insensible to them, whereas in fact she was simply unwilling to show how infinitely they pleased her. To show that was to show too much. ‘I’m sure the English are very conventional,’ she added.
“我非常感谢你，”女孩很快说道。她接受赞美的方式有时显得相当枯燥。她尽快摆脱了它们。但在这一点上，她有时会被误判，人们认为她对他们麻木不仁，而事实上，她只是不愿意表现出他们是多么令她高兴。表现出这一点就表现得太多了。 “我确信英国人非常传统，”她补充道。

‘They’ve got everything pretty well fixed,’ Mr. Touchett admitted. ‘It’s all settled beforehand—they don’t leave it to the last moment.’
“他们已经把一切都搞定了，”图切特先生承认。 “一切都已经事先解决了——他们不会留到最后一刻。”

‘I don’t like to have everything settled beforehand,’ said the girl. ‘I like more unexpectedness.’
“我不喜欢把所有事情都预先解决，”女孩说。 “我喜欢更多的意外。”

Her uncle seemed amused at her distinctness of preference. ‘Well, it’s settled beforehand that you’ll have great success,’ he rejoined. ‘I suppose you’ll like that.’
她的叔叔似乎对她独特的偏好感到好笑。 “好吧，事先就注定了你会取得巨大的成功，”他回答道。 “我想你会喜欢的。”

‘I shall not have success if they’re too stupidly conventional. I’m not in the least stupidly conventional. I’m just the contrary. That’s what they won’t like.’
“如果他们太愚蠢地传统，我就不会成功。”我一点也不愚蠢地守旧。我恰恰相反。这就是他们不喜欢的。

‘No, no, you’re all wrong,’ said the old man. ‘You can’t tell what they’ll like. They’re very inconsistent; that’s their principal interest.’
“不，不，你们都错了，”老人说。 ‘你无法判断他们会喜欢什么。他们非常不一致；这是他们的主要利益。

‘Ah well,’ said Isabel, standing before her uncle with her hands clasped about the belt of her black dress and looking up and down the lawn—‘that will suit me perfectly!’
“啊，好吧，”伊莎贝尔说，她站在她叔叔面前，双手紧握着黑裙子的腰带，上下打量着草坪——“这太适合我了！”

Chapter 7
第7章

The two amused themselves, time and again, with talking of the attitude of the British public as if the young lady had been in a position to appeal to it; but in fact the British public remained for the present profoundly indifferent to Miss Isabel Archer, whose fortune had dropped her, as her cousin said, into the dullest house in England. Her gouty uncle received very little company, and Mrs. Touchett, not having cultivated relations with her husband’s neighbours, was not warranted in expecting visits from them. She had, however, a peculiar taste; she liked to receive cards. For what is usually called social intercourse she had very little relish; but nothing pleased her more than to find her hall-table whitened with oblong morsels of symbolic pasteboard. She flattered herself that she was a very just woman, and had mastered the sovereign truth that nothing in this world is got for nothing. She had played no social part as mistress of Gardencourt, and it was not to be supposed that, in the surrounding country, a minute account should be kept of her comings and goings. But it is by no means certain that she did not feel it to be wrong that so little notice was taken of them and that her failure (really very gratuitous) to make herself important in the neighbourhood had, not much to do with the acrimony of her allusions to her husband’s adopted country. Isabel presently found herself in the singular situation of defending the British constitution against her aunt; Mrs. Touchett having formed the habit of sticking pins into this venerable instrument. Isabel always felt an impulse to pull out the pins; not that she imagined they inflicted any damage on the tough old parchment, but because it seemed to her aunt might make better use of her sharpness. She was very critical herselfit was incidental to her age, her sex and her nationality; but she was very sentimental as well, and there was something in Mrs. Touchett’s dryness that set her own moral fountains flowing.
两人一次又一次地自娱自乐，谈论英国公众的态度，就好像这位年轻女士能够吸引这种态度一样。但事实上，英国公众目前对伊莎贝尔·阿切尔小姐仍然漠不关心，正如她表弟所说，她的财富使她落入了英国最乏味的房子里。她患有痛风病的叔叔很少有人陪伴，而图切特夫人又没有与丈夫的邻居建立起关系，因此没有理由期待他们的来访。然而，她的品味却很独特。她喜欢收到卡片。对于通常所谓的社交活动，她没什么兴趣。但没有什么比发现大厅的桌子上贴满了象征性的长方形纸板而变得白色更让她高兴的了。她自以为自己是个很正义的女人，懂得了世上没有不劳而获的至高真理。作为花园庭院的女主人，她没有扮演任何社会角色，而且在周边国家，人们不应该对她的来往进行详细记录。但绝不能肯定的是，她觉得他们很少受到关注，这没有错，而且她未能（确实非常无缘无故）使自己在邻居中变得重要，这与他们的尖酸刻薄没有太大关系。她暗指她丈夫的移居国。伊莎贝尔目前发现自己处于一个独特的境地，要捍卫英国宪法，反对她的姨妈。塔奇特夫人已经养成了将别针插入这件古老乐器的习惯。伊莎贝尔总有一种想把别针拔掉的冲动。并不是她想象他们会对坚硬的旧羊皮纸造成任何损坏，而是因为她姑妈似乎可以更好地利用她的锐利。 她自己也很挑剔——这与她的年龄、性别和国籍有关。但她也非常多愁善感，图切特夫人的干巴巴的性格中有些东西让她自己的道德喷泉涌动起来。

‘Now what’s your point of view?’ she asked of her aunt. ‘When you criticize everything here you should have a point of view. Yours doesn’t seem to be American—you thought everything over there so disagreeable. When I criticize I have mine; it’s thoroughly American!’
“现在你的观点是什么？”她问姨妈。 “当你批评这里的一切时，你应该有自己的观点。你的似乎不是美国人——你认为那里的一切都很令人讨厌。当我批评时，我有我的；这完全是美国式的！”

‘My dear young lady,’ said Mrs. Touchett, ‘there are as many points of view in the world as there are people of sense to take them. You may say that doesn’t make them very numerous! American? Never in the world; that’s shockingly narrow. My point of view, thank God, is personal!’
“我亲爱的小姐，”图切特夫人说，“世界上有多少有理智的人就有多少种观点。”你可能会说，这并没有让它们变得很多！美国人？世上从未有过；这是极其狭窄的。感谢上帝，我的观点是个人的！

Isabel thought this a better answer than she admitted; it was a tolerable description of her own manner of judging, but it would not have sounded well for her to say so. On the lips of a person less advanced in life and less enlightened by experience than Mrs. Touchett such a declaration would savour of immodesty, even of arrogance. She risked it nevertheless in talking with Ralph, with whom she talked a great deal and with whom her conversation was of a sort that gave a large license to extravagance. Her cousin used, as the phrase is, to chaff her; he very soon established with her a reputation for treating everything as a joke, and he was not a man to neglect the privileges such a reputation conferred. She accused him of an odious want of seriousness, of laughing at all things, beginning with himself. Such slender faculty of reverence as he possessed centred wholly upon his father; for the rest, he exercised his wit indifferently upon his father’s son, this gentleman’s weak lungs, his useless life, his fantastic mother, his friends (Lord Warburton in especial), his adopted, and his native country, his charming new-found cousin. ‘I keep a band of music in my ante-room,’ he said once to her. ‘It has orders to play without stopping; it renders me two excellent services. It keeps the sounds of the world from reaching the private apartments, and it makes the world think that dancing’s going on within.’ It was dance-music indeed that you usually heard when you came within ear-shot of Ralph’s band; the liveliest waltzes seemed to float upon the air. Isabel often found herself irritated by this perpetual fiddling; she would have liked to pass through the ante-room, as her cousin called it, and enter the private apartments. It mattered little that he had assured her they were a very dismal place; she would have been glad to undertake to sweep them and set them in order. It was but half-hospitality to let her remain outside; to punish him for which Isabel administered innumerable taps with the ferule of her straight young wit. It must be said that her wit was exercised to a large extent in self-defence, for her cousin amused himself with calling her ‘Columbia’ and accusing her of a patriotism so heated that it scorched. He drew a caricature of her in which she was represented as a very pretty young woman dressed, on the lines of the prevailing fashion, in the folds of the national banner. Isabel’s chief dread in life at this period of her development was that she should appear narrow-minded; what she feared next afterwards was that she should really be so. But she nevertheless made no scruple of abounding in her cousin’s sense and pretending to sigh for the charms of her native land. She would be as American as it pleased him to regard her, and if he chose to laugh at her she would give him plenty of occupation. She defended England against his mother, but when Ralph sang its praises on purpose, as she said, to work her up, she found herself able to differ from him on a variety of points. In fact, the quality of this small ripe country seemed as sweet to her as the taste of an October pear; and her satisfaction was at the root of the good spirits which enabled her to take her cousin’s chaff and return it in kind. If her good-humour flagged at moments it was not because she thought herself ill-used, but because she suddenly felt sorry for Ralph. It seemed to her he was talking as a blind and had little heart in what he said.
伊莎贝尔认为这是一个比她承认的更好的答案。这是对她自己的判断方式的描述，还算可以接受，但她这样说听起来不太好。对于一个生活水平不如图切特夫人、经验不够开明的人来说，说出这样的话会显得不谦虚，甚至是傲慢。尽管如此，她还是冒着风险与拉尔夫交谈，她和拉尔夫谈了很多话，而且她的谈话很容易让人放肆。正如俗话所说，她的表弟是用来逗她开心的。很快，他就在她心中树立了一个把一切都当作笑话的名声，而他并不是一个会忽视这种名誉所赋予的特权的人。她指责他缺乏严肃性，对所有事情都嘲笑，从他自己开始。他所拥有的这种微弱的尊敬能力完全集中在他的父亲身上。其余的，他冷漠地将他的智慧运用在他父亲的儿子、这位绅士虚弱的肺、他无用的生活、他出色的母亲、他的朋友（特别是沃伯顿勋爵）、他的养子、他的祖国、他迷人的新表弟身上。 。 “我的接待室里有一支乐队，”他有一次对她说。 ‘它接到命令要不停地演奏；它为我提供了两项优质的服务。它阻止了世界上的声音传到私人公寓，让世人认为里面正在跳舞。当你靠近拉尔夫乐队的耳朵时，你通常会听到的确实是舞曲；这确实是一种舞曲。最活泼的华尔兹似乎漂浮在空中。伊莎贝尔经常发现自己对这种无休止的摆弄感到恼火。她本想穿过她表弟所说的前厅，进入私人公寓。 尽管他向她保证过这里是一个非常凄凉的地方，但这并不重要。她本来很乐意负责清理它们并整理它们。让她留在外面只是半热情好客的态度。为了惩罚他，伊莎贝尔用她年轻直率的智慧的金属箍敲打了无数次。必须说，她的机智在很大程度上是出于自卫，因为她的表弟自娱自乐地称她为“哥伦比亚”，并指责她的爱国主义热得令人焦灼。他为她画了一幅漫画，画中她是一位非常漂亮的年轻女子，穿着流行时尚的线条，穿着国旗的褶皱。伊莎贝尔在这个成长阶段的生活中最害怕的就是她会显得心胸狭隘。接下来她担心的是，她真的会这样。但她却毫不顾忌地表现出表弟的感悟，假装感叹祖国的魅力。只要他高兴地看待她，她就会像美国人一样，如果他选择嘲笑她，她会给他很多事。她捍卫英格兰，反对他的母亲，但当拉尔夫故意歌颂英国时，正如她所说，为了激励她，她发现自己在很多方面都与他不同。事实上，这个成熟小国的品质对她来说就像十月梨子的味道一样甜美。她的满足感源于良好的精神，这使她能够接受她表弟的糠秕并以同样的方式回报。如果她的好心情有时会减退，那并不是因为她认为自己受到了虐待，而是因为她突然为拉尔夫感到难过。在她看来，他说话就像个盲人，而且他所说的话毫无心机。

‘I don’t know what’s the matter with you,’ she observed to him once; ‘but I suspect you’re a great humbug.’
有一次她对他说：“我不知道你怎么了。” “但我怀疑你是个大骗子。”

‘That’s your privilege,’ Ralph answered, who had not been used to being so crudely addressed.
“这是你的特权，”拉尔夫回答道，他不习惯被如此粗鲁地对待。

‘I don’t know what you care for; I don’t think you care for anything. You don’t really care for England when you praise it; you don’t care for America even when you pretend to abuse it.’
‘我不知道你关心什么；我认为你什么都不关心。当你赞扬英格兰时，你并不是真的关心它；而是你真正关心它。即使你假装滥用美国，你也不关心它。

‘I care for nothing but you, dear cousin,’ said Ralph.
“除了你，我什么都不关心，亲爱的表弟，”拉尔夫说。

‘If I could believe even that, I should be very glad.’
“如果我能相信这一点，我会很高兴。”

‘Ah well, I should hope so!’ the young man exclaimed.
“啊，好吧，我希望如此！”年轻人惊呼道。

Isabel might have believed it and not have been far from the truth. He thought a great deal about her; she was constantly present to his mind. At a time when his thoughts had been a good deal of a burden to him her sudden arrival, which promised nothing and was an open-handed gift of fate, had refreshed and quickened them, given them wings and something to fly for. Poor Ralph had been for many weeks steeped in melancholy; his outlook, habitually sombre, lay under the shadow of a deeper cloud. He had grown anxious about his father, whose gout, hitherto confined to his legs, had begun to ascend into regions more vital. The old man had been gravely ill in the spring, and the doctors had whispered to Ralph that another attack would be less easy to deal with. Just now he appeared disburdened of pain, but Ralph could not rid himself of a suspicion that this was a subterfuge of the enemy, who was waiting to take him off his guard. If the manoeuvre should succeed there would be little hope of any great resistance. Ralph had always taken for granted that his father would survive him—that his own name would be the first grimly called. The father and son had been close companions, and the idea of being left alone with the remnant of a tasteless life on his hands was not gratifying to the young man, who had always and tacitly counted upon his elder’s help in making the best of a poor business. At the prospect of losing his great motive Ralph lost indeed his one inspiration. If they might die at the same time it would be all very well; but without the encouragement of his father’s society he should barely have patience to await his own turn. He had not the incentive of feeling that he was indispensable to his mother; it was a rule with his mother to have no regrets. He bethought himself of course that it had been a small kindness to his father to wish that, of the two, the active rather than the passive party should know the felt wound; he remembered that the old man had always treated his own forecast of an early end as a clever fallacy, which he should be delighted to discredit so far as he might by dying first. But of the two triumphs, that of refuting a sophistical son and that of holding on a while longer to a state of being which, with all abatements, he enjoyed, Ralph deemed it no sin to hope the latter might be vouchsafed to Mr. Touchett.
伊莎贝尔可能相信了这一点，但事实并非如此。他对她想了很多。她时时刻刻出现在他的脑海里。当他的思绪对他来说是沉重的负担时，她的突然到来，并没有带来任何承诺，而是命运的慷慨馈赠，却使他们精神焕发，活力四射，给了他们翅膀，给了他们飞翔的东西。可怜的拉尔夫已经好几个星期都沉浸在忧郁之中了。他的面容一向阴沉，笼罩在更深的乌云阴影之下。他越来越担心他的父亲，他的痛风迄今为止仅限于他的腿，现在已经开始蔓延到更重要的部位。春天的时候，老人得了重病，医生们低声对拉尔夫说，再发作一次就更难对付了。刚才他看上去毫无痛苦，但拉尔夫始终怀疑这是敌人的诡计，敌人正等着让他失去警惕。如果这次行动成功，那么遇到任何强大抵抗的希望就微乎其微了。拉尔夫一直理所当然地认为他的父亲会比他活得更久——他自己的名字将是第一个被严厉称呼的人。父子俩一直是亲密的伙伴，一想到要独自一人承受无味的生活，这个年轻人并不高兴，因为他总是默契地依靠长辈的帮助来充分利用自己的生活。生意不好。一想到失去他的伟大动机，拉尔夫确实失去了他唯一的灵感。如果他们能同时死去那就太好了；但如果没有父亲社会的鼓励，他几乎没有耐心等待自己的轮到自己。他没有动力去感觉自己对于母亲来说是不可或缺的；母亲给他定下的规矩就是不能后悔。 当然，他自己认为，希望这两个人中主动的一方而不是被动的一方知道所感受到的伤口，这对他的父亲来说是一种小小的仁慈；但他的父亲却没有意识到这一点。他记得老人一直把他自己关于早日结束的预测视为一个聪明的谬论，他应该很高兴通过先死来尽可能地驳斥这个谬论。但是，在这两项胜利中，一是驳斥了一个诡辩的儿子，一是在他所享受的一切减弱的情况下，再坚持一段时间的存在状态，拉尔夫认为希望后者能够授予图切特先生并不是罪过。 。

These were nice questions, but Isabel’s arrival put a stop to his puzzling over them. It even suggested there might be a compensation for the intolerable ennui of surviving his genial sire. He wondered whether he were harbouring ‘love’ for this spontaneous young woman from Albany; but he judged that on the whole he was not. After he had known her for a week he quite made up his mind to this, and every day he felt a little more sure. Lord Warburton had been right about her; she was a really interesting little figure. Ralph wondered how their neighbour had found it out so soon; and then he said it was only another proof of his friend’s high abilities, which he had always greatly admired. If his cousin were to be nothing more than an entertainment to him, Ralph was conscious she was an entertainment of a high order. ‘A character like that,’ he said to himself,—‘a real little passionate force to see at play is the finest thing in nature.’ It’s finer than the finest work of art—than a Greek bas-relief, than a great Titian, than a Gothic cathedral. It’s very pleasant to be so well treated where one had least looked for it. I had never been more blue, more bored, than for a week before she came; I had never expected less that anything pleasant would happen. Suddenly I receive a Titian, by the post, to hang on my wall—a Greek bas-relief to stick over my chimney-piece. The key of a beautiful edifice is thrust into my hand, and I’m told to walk in and admire. My poor boy, you’ve been sadly ungrateful, and now you had better keep very quiet and never grumble again.’ The sentiment of these reflexions was very just; but it was not exactly true that Ralph Touchett had had a key put into his hand. His cousin was a very brilliant girl, who would take, as he said, a good deal of knowing; but she needed the knowing, and his attitude with regard to her, though it was contemplative and critical, was not judicial. He surveyed the edifice from the outside and admired it greatly; he looked in at the windows and received an impression of proportions equally fair. But he felt that he saw it only by glimpses and that he had not yet stood under the roof. The door was fastened, and though he had keys in his pocket he had a conviction that none of them would fit. She was intelligent and generous; it was a fine free nature; but what was she going to do with herself? This question was irregular, for with most women one had no occasion to ask it. Most women did with themselves nothing at all; they waited, attitudes more or less gracefully passive, for a man to come that way and furnish them with a destiny. Isabel’s originality was that she gave one an impression of having intentions of her own. ‘Whenever she executes them,’ said Ralph, ‘may I be there to see!’
这些都是很好的问题，但伊莎贝尔的到来打消了他对这些问题的困惑。它甚至暗示，对于他和蔼的父亲幸存下来所带来的难以忍受的倦怠，可能会得到补偿。他想知道自己是否对这个来自奥尔巴尼的自发的年轻女子怀有“爱”；但他判断，总的来说，他不是。认识她一个星期后，他就下定了决心，而且一天比一天更加确定。沃伯顿勋爵对她的看法是正确的。她是一个非常有趣的小人物。拉尔夫想知道他们的邻居怎么这么快就发现了。然后他说这只是他朋友高超能力的又一个证明，他一直非常钦佩他的朋友。如果他的表弟对他来说只不过是一种娱乐，拉尔夫意识到她是一种高级的娱乐。 “像这样的角色，”他对自己说，“一种真正的、充满激情的力量，是自然界中最美妙的东西。”它比最精美的艺术品还要精美，比希腊浅浮雕、伟大的浮雕还要精美。提香，而不是哥特式大教堂。在人们最不注意的地方受到如此良好的对待是非常令人愉快的。在她来之前的一周里，我从未如此忧郁、如此无聊。我从未预料到会发生任何令人愉快的事情。突然，我收到了一幅提香的作品，挂在我的墙上——一幅希腊浅浮雕，贴在我的烟囱上。一座美丽大厦的钥匙被塞到我手里，我被告知要走进去欣赏。我可怜的孩子，你一直忘恩负义，可悲的是，现在你最好保持安静，再也不要发牢骚了。但拉尔夫·图切特手中握着一把钥匙的说法并不完全正确。 他的表妹是个非常聪明的女孩，正如他所说，她懂得很多。但她需要了解，而他对她的态度虽然是深思熟虑和批评的，但并不公正。他从外面审视了这座建筑，并对它赞叹不已。他向窗内望去，得到的印象是比例同样公平。但他觉得自己只是瞥见了，还没有站在屋檐下。门是锁着的，尽管他口袋里有钥匙，但他确信钥匙都放不进去。她聪明又慷慨。这是一种美好的自由天性；但她自己要做什么呢？这个问题是不合常理的，因为对于大多数女性来说，没有机会问这个问题。大多数女人根本不为自己做任何事。他们等待着，态度或多或少优雅地被动，等待一个男人到来并为他们提供命运。伊莎贝尔的独创性在于她给人一种有自己的意图的印象。 “每当她处决他们时，”拉尔夫说，“我可以在场观看吗！”’

It devolved upon him of course to do the honours of the place. Mr. Touchett was confined to his chair, and his wife’s position was that of rather a grim visitor; so that in the line of conduct that opened itself to Ralph duty and inclination were harmoniously mixed. He was not a great walker, but he strolled about the grounds with his cousina pastime for which the weather remained favourable with a persistency not allowed for in Isabel’s somewhat lugubrious prevision of the climate; and in the long afternoons, of which the length was but the measure of her gratified eagerness, they took a boat on the river, the dear little river, as Isabel called it, where the opposite shore seemed still a part of the foreground of the landscape; or drove over the country in a phaeton—a low, capacious, thick-wheeled phaeton formerly much used by Mr. Touchett, but which he had now ceased to enjoy. Isabel enjoyed it largely and, handling the reins in a manner which approved itself to the groom as ‘knowing,’ was never weary of driving her uncle’s capital horses through winding lanes and byways full of the rural incidents she had confidently expected to find; past cottages thatched and timbered, past ale-houses latticed and sanded, past patches of ancient common and glimpses of empty parks, between hedgerows made thick by midsummer. When they reached home they usually found tea had been served on the lawn and that Mrs. Touchett had not shrunk from the extremity of handing her husband his cup. But the two for the most part sat silent; the old man with his head back and his eyes closed, his wife occupied with her knitting and wearing that appearance of rare profundity with which some ladies consider the movement of their needles.
当然，他有责任维护这个地方的荣誉。塔切特先生坐在椅子上，而他妻子的立场则像是一位冷酷的访客。因此，在拉尔夫的行为方式中，责任和倾向和谐地结合在一起。他不是一个善于步行的人，但他在田野里漫步，与他的堂兄妹一起消遣，天气仍然有利，但伊莎贝尔对气候的预测有些阴郁，这是不允许的。在漫长的下午，时间的长短只是衡量她满足的渴望，他们在河上划船，这条亲爱的小河，正如伊莎贝尔所说，对岸似乎仍然是前景的一部分。景观;或者开着一辆四轮马车穿越乡村——一种低矮、宽敞、厚轮的四轮马车，以前塔奇特先生经常使用，但现在他不再喜欢它了。伊莎贝尔非常享受这种感觉，她控制缰绳的方式对新郎来说是“熟悉的”，她从不厌倦驾着叔叔的大马穿过蜿蜒的小巷和小路，充满了她满怀信心地期待着发现的乡村事件；过去的茅草和木结构的小屋，过去的啤酒屋格子和沙子，过去的一片片古老的公共场所和空旷的公园的一瞥，在仲夏浓密的树篱之间。当他们回到家时，他们通常会发现草坪上已经摆好了茶，图切特夫人毫不犹豫地把茶杯递给了丈夫。但两人大部分时间都保持沉默。老人头向后仰，闭着眼睛，他的妻子正忙着编织，她的表情罕见地深邃，有些女士在思考她们的针的运动时也有这种表情。

One day, however, a visitor had arrived. The two young persons, after spending an hour on the river, strolled back to the house and perceived Lord Warburton sitting under the trees and engaged in conversation, of which even at a distance the desultory character was appreciable, with Mrs. Touchett. He had driven over from his own place with a portmanteau and had asked, as the father and son often invited him to do, for a dinner and a lodging. Isabel, seeing him for half an hour on the day of her arrival, had discovered in this brief space that she liked him; he had indeed rather sharply registered himself on her fine sense and she had thought of him several times. She had hoped she should see him again—hoped too that she should see a few others. Gardencourt was not dull; the place itself was sovereign, her uncle was more and more a sort of golden grandfather, and Ralph was unlike any cousin she had ever encountered—her idea of cousins having tended to gloom. Then her impressions were still so fresh and so quickly renewed that there was as yet hardly a hint of vacancy in the view. But Isabel had need to remind herself that she was interested in human nature and that her foremost hope in coming abroad had been that she should see a great many people. When Ralph said to her, as he had done several times, ‘I wonder you find this endurable; you ought to see some of the neighbours and some of our friends, because we have really got a few, though you would never suppose it’—when he offered to invite what he called a ‘lot of people’ and make her acquainted with English society, she encouraged the hospitable impulse and promised in advance to hurl herself into the fray. Little, however, for the present, had come of his offers, and it may be confided to the reader that if the young man delayed to carry them out it was because he found the labour of providing for his companion by no means so severe as to require extraneous help. Isabel had spoken to him very often about ‘specimens”; it was a word that played a considerable part in her vocabulary; she had given him to understand that she wished to see English society illustrated by eminent cases.
然而有一天，来了一位客人。两个年轻人在河边待了一个小时后，漫步回到屋里，看见沃伯顿勋爵坐在树下，正在和图切特夫人交谈，即使隔着一段距离，谈话的断断续续的性格也很明显。他带着一只旅行箱从自己的住处开车过来，像父子俩经常邀请他那样，要求吃饭和住宿。伊莎贝尔在抵达当天与他待了半个小时，在这短暂的时间里她发现自己喜欢他；他确实相当敏锐地注意到了她的敏锐感觉，她也曾多次想起他。她希望能再次见到他——也希望能见到其他几个人。花园庭院并不沉闷。这个地方本身就是主权，她的叔叔越来越像一个金祖父，拉尔夫不像她遇到过的任何表兄弟——她对表兄弟的看法往往令人沮丧。那时她的印象仍然那么新鲜，那么迅速地更新，以至于视野中几乎没有一丝空白。但伊莎贝尔需要提醒自己，她对人性感兴趣，她出国的最大希望是能见到很多人。当拉尔夫对她说时，正如他多次做过的那样，“我不知道你是否觉得这可以忍受；”你应该去看看一些邻居和我们的一些朋友，因为我们确实有一些，尽管你永远不会想到这一点”——当他提出邀请他所谓的“很多人”并让她熟悉英语时社会上，她鼓励好客的冲动，并提前承诺投入战斗。 然而，目前他的提议还没有取得什么成果，读者可以放心，如果这个年轻人推迟执行这些提议，那是因为他发现养活他的同伴的劳动远没有他想象的那么艰巨。需要额外的帮助。伊莎贝尔经常和他谈论“标本”。这个词在她的词汇中占有相当大的比重。她让他明白，她希望看到英国社会通过杰出案例来说明。

‘Well now, there’s a specimen,’ he said to her as they walked up from the riverside and he recognized Lord Warburton.
“现在，有一个标本了，”当他们从河边走上来时，他对她说，他认出了沃伯顿勋爵。

‘A specimen of what?’ asked the girl.
“什么标本？”女孩问道。

‘A specimen of an English gentleman.’
“英国绅士的典范。”

‘Do you mean they’re all like him?’
“你的意思是他们都像他一样？”

‘Oh no; they’re not all like him.’
'不好了;他们并不都像他。

‘He’s a favourable specimen then,’ said Isabel; ‘because I’m sure he’s nice.’
“那么他是一个不错的样本，”伊莎贝尔说。 “因为我确信他很好。”

‘Yes, he’s very nice. And he’s very fortunate.’
‘是的，他人很好。他非常幸运。

The fortunate Lord Warburton exchanged a handshake with our heroine and hoped she was very well. ‘But I needn’t ask that,’ he said, ‘since you’ve been handling the oars.’
幸运的沃伯顿勋爵与我们的女主角握手并希望她一切都好。 “但我不必问这个，”他说，“因为你一直在划桨。”

‘I’ve been rowing a little,’ Isabel answered; ‘but how should you know it?’
“我划了一会儿船，”伊莎贝尔回答道。 “但是你怎么知道呢？”

‘Oh, I know he doesn’t row; he’s too lazy,’ said his lordship, indicating Ralph Touchett with a laugh.
“哦，我知道他不会划船；但我知道他不会划船。” “他太懒了。”勋爵大人笑着指着拉尔夫·图切特说道。

‘He has a good excuse for his laziness,’ Isabel rejoined, lowering her voice a little.
“他为自己的懒惰找到了一个很好的借口。”伊莎贝尔压低声音回答道。

‘Ah, he has a good excuse for everything!’ cried Lord Warburton, still with his sonorous mirth.
“啊，他对一切都有很好的借口！”沃伯顿勋爵喊道，脸上仍然带着响亮的笑声。

‘My excuse for not rowing is that my cousin rows so well,’ said Ralph. ‘She does everything well. She touches nothing that she doesn’t adorn!’
“我不划船的借口是我表弟划得很好，”拉尔夫说。 ‘她每件事都做得很好。她不碰任何她不装饰的东西！

‘It makes one want to be touched, Miss Archer,’ Lord Warburton declared.
“这让人想要被触摸，阿彻小姐，”沃伯顿勋爵宣称。

‘Be touched in the right sense and you’ll never look the worse for it,’ said Isabel, who, if it pleased her to hear it said that her accomplishments were numerous, was happily able to reflect that such complacency was not the indication of a feeble mind, inasmuch as there were several things in which she excelled. Her desire to think well of herself had at least the element of humility that it always needed to be supported by proof.
“以正确的方式受到感动，你永远不会因此而看起来更糟，”伊莎贝尔说，如果她很高兴听到有人说她的成就很多，她很高兴能够反映出这种自满并不是迹象她的头脑很脆弱，因为她有几件事很擅长。她想要自我评价良好的愿望至少包含着谦逊的元素，而这一点始终需要证据的支持。

Lord Warburton not only spent the night at Gardencourt, but he was persuaded to remain over the second day; and when the second day was ended he determined to postpone his departure till the morrow. During this period he addressed many of his remarks to Isabel, who accepted this evidence of his esteem with a very good grace. She found herself liking him extremely; the first impression he had made on her had had weight, but at the end of an evening spent in his society she scarce fell short of seeing him—though quite without luridity—as a hero of romance. She retired to rest with a sense of good fortune, with a quickened consciousness of possible felicities. ‘It’s very nice to know two such charming people as those,’ she said, meaning by ‘those’ her cousin and her cousin’s friend. It must be added moreover that an incident had occurred which might have seemed to put her good-humour to the test. Mr. Touchett went to bed at half-past nine o’clock, but his wife remained in the drawing-room with the other members of the party. She prolonged her vigil for something less than an hour, and then, rising, observed to Isabel that it was time they should bid the gentlemen good-night. Isabel had as yet no desire to go to bed; the occasion wore, to her sense, a festive character, and feasts were not in the habit of terminating so early. So, without further thought, she replied, very simply-
沃伯顿勋爵不仅在花园考特过夜，而且还被说服留下来度过第二天。第二天结束后，他决定推迟到明天再出发。在此期间，他向伊莎贝尔发表了许多言论，伊莎贝尔非常优雅地接受了他的尊重。她发现自己非常喜欢他；他给她留下的第一印象很重要，但在与他交往的一个晚上结束时，她几乎没有把他视为浪漫的英雄——尽管并不滑稽。她带着一种幸运的感觉退休了，并迅速意识到可能的幸福。 “很高兴认识两个如此迷人的人，”她说，指的是她的表弟和她表弟的朋友。此外还必须补充一点，发生了一件似乎对她的幽默感构成考验的事件。塔奇特先生九点半就上床睡觉了，但他的妻子和其他人一起留在客厅里。她守夜的时间不到一个小时，然后站起来，对伊莎贝尔说，现在是他们应该向先生们道晚安的时候了。伊莎贝尔还不想睡觉。在她看来，这个场合充满了节日气氛，而且盛宴并没有这么早结束的习惯。于是，她想都没想，就简单地回答道——

‘Need I go, dear aunt? I’ll come up in half an hour.’
‘亲爱的阿姨，我需要走吗？我半小时后就来。

‘It’s impossible I should wait for you,’ Mrs. Touchett answered.
“我不可能等你，”图切特夫人回答道。

‘Ah, you needn’t wait! Ralph will light my candle,’ Isabel gaily engaged.
‘啊，不用等了！拉尔夫会点燃我的蜡烛。”伊莎贝尔愉快地说道。

‘I’ll light your candle; do let me light your candle, Miss Archer!’ Lord Warburton exclaimed. ‘Only I beg it shall not be before midnight.’
“我会点燃你的蜡烛；让我点燃你的蜡烛吧，阿彻小姐！”沃伯顿勋爵大声说道。 “只是我请求不要在午夜之前。”

Mrs. Touchett fixed her bright little eyes upon him a moment and transferred them coldly to her niece. ‘You can’t stay alone with the gentlemen. You’re not—you’re not at your blest Albany, my dear.’
塔切特夫人用她明亮的小眼睛盯着他看了一会儿，然后冷冷地转向她的侄女。 “你不能和先生们单独呆在一起。你不是——你没有处于最好的状态，奥尔巴尼，亲爱的。

Isabel rose, blushing. ‘I wish I were,’ she said.
伊莎贝尔站起来，脸红了。 “我希望我是，”她说。

‘Oh, I say, mother!’ Ralph broke out.
“哦，我说，妈妈！”拉尔夫大声说道。

‘My dear Mrs. Touchett!’ Lord Warburton murmured.
“我亲爱的图切特夫人！”沃伯顿勋爵低声说道。

‘I didn’t make your country, my lord,’ Mrs. Touchett said majestically. ‘I must take it as I find it.’
“大人，您的国家不是我创造的，”图切特夫人威严地说。 “我必须按照我发现的方式接受它。”

‘Can’t I stay with my own cousin?’ Isabel enquired.
“我不能和我自己的表弟住在一起吗？”伊莎贝尔问道。

‘I’m not aware that Lord Warburton is your cousin.’
“我不知道沃伯顿勋爵是你的表弟。”

‘Perhaps I had better go to bed!’ the visitor suggested. ‘That will arrange it.’
“也许我最好去睡觉了！”来访者建议道。 “那就安排好了。”

Mrs. Touchett gave a little look of despair and sat down again. ‘Oh, if it’s necessary I’ll stay up till midnight.’
杜切特夫人露出了一丝绝望的表情，然后又坐下了。 “哦，如果有必要的话我会熬夜到午夜。”

Ralph meanwhile handed Isabel her candlestick. He had been watching her; it had seemed to him her temper was involved—an accident that might be interesting. But if he had expected anything of a flare he was disappointed, for the girl simply laughed a little, nodded good-night and withdrew accompanied by her aunt. For himself he was annoyed at his mother, though he thought she was right. Above-stairs the two ladies separated at Mrs. Touchett’s door. Isabel had said nothing on her way up.
与此同时，拉尔夫把烛台递给了伊莎贝尔。他一直在注视着她；在他看来，她的脾气似乎与她的脾气有关——这可能是一个有趣的意外。但如果他期待有什么闪光的话，他会失望的，因为女孩只是笑了笑，点点头道晚安，然后在姨妈的陪同下退出了。就他自己而言，他对母亲很恼火，尽管他认为她是对的。楼上，两位女士在图切特夫人的门口分开。伊莎贝尔上楼的路上什么也没说。

‘Of course you’re vexed at my interfering with you,’ said Mrs. Touchett.
“你当然对我干涉你感到恼火，”图切特夫人说。

Isabel considered. ‘I’m not vexed, but I’m surprised—and a good deal mystified. Wasn’t it proper I should remain in the drawing-room?’
伊莎贝尔想了想。 “我并不烦恼，但我很惊讶——而且很困惑。我应该留在客厅里吗？

‘Not in the least. Young girls here—in decent houses—don’t sit alone with the gentlemen late at night.’
” “一点也不。这里的年轻女孩——住在体面的房子里——不会在深夜单独和绅士们坐在一起。

‘You were very right to tell me then,’ said Isabel. ‘I don’t understand it, but I’m very glad to know it.’
“你当时告诉我的非常正确，”伊莎贝尔说。 “我不明白，但我很高兴知道。”

‘I shall always tell you,’ her aunt answered, ‘whenever I see you taking what seems to me too much liberty.’
“我总是会告诉你，”她姨妈回答道，“每当我看到你采取在我看来太过自由的行为时。”

‘Pray do; but I don’t say I shall always think your remonstrance just.’
‘祈祷吧；但我并不是说我会一直认为你的抗议是公正的。

‘Very likely not. You’re too fond of your own ways.’
‘很可能不会。你太喜欢我行我素了。

‘Yes, I think I’m very fond of them. But I always want to know the things one shouldn’t do.’
“是的，我想我非常喜欢他们。但我总是想知道哪些事情不应该做。”

‘So as to do them?’ asked her aunt.
“那么要做什么呢？”姨妈问。

‘So as to choose,’ said Isabel.
“以便选择，”伊莎贝尔说。

Chapter 8
第8章

As she was devoted to romantic effects Lord Warburton ventured to express a hope that she would come some day and see his house, a very curious old place. He extracted from Mrs. Touchett a promise that she bring her niece to Lockleigh, and Ralph signified his willingness to attend the ladies if his father should be able to spare him. Lord Warburton assured our heroine that in the mean time his sisters, would come and see her. She knew something about his sisters, having sounded him, during the hours they spent together while he was at Gardencourt, on many points connected with his family. When Isabel was interested she asked a great many questions, and as her companion was a copious talker she urged him on this occasion by no means in vain. He told her he had four sisters and two brothers and had lost both his parents. The brothers and sisters were very good people—‘not particularly clever, you know,’ he said, ‘but very decent and pleasant”; and he was so good as to hope Miss Archer might know them well. One of the brothers was in the Church, settled in the family living, that of Lockleigh, which was a heavy, sprawling parish, and was an excellent fellow in spite of his thinking differently from himself on every conceivable topic. And then Lord Warburton mentioned some of the opinions held by his brother, which were opinions Isabel had often heard expressed and that she supposed to be entertained by a considerable portion of the human family. Many of them indeed she supposed she had held herself, till he assured her she was quite mistaken, that it was really impossible, that she had doubtless imagined she entertained them, but that she might depend that, if she thought them over a little, she would find there was nothing in them. When she answered that she had already thought several of the questions involved over very attentively he declared that she was only another example of what he had often been struck with—the fact that, of all the people in the world, the Americans were the most grossly superstitious. They were rank Tories and bigots, every one of them; there were no conservatives like American conservatives. Her uncle and her cousin were there to prove it; nothing could be more mediaeval than many of their views; they had ideas that people in England nowadays were ashamed to confess to; and they had the impudence moreover, said his lordship, laughing, to pretend they knew more about the needs and dangers of this poor dear stupid old England than he who was born in it and owned a considerable slice of it—the more shame to him! From all of which Isabel gathered that Lord Warburton was a nobleman of the newest pattern, a reformer, a radical, a contemner of ancient ways. His other brother, who was in the army in India, was rather wild and pig-headed and had not been of much use as yet but to make debts for Warburton to payone of the most precious privileges of an elder brother. ‘I don’t think I shall pay any more,’ said her friend; ‘he lives a monstrous deal better than I do, enjoys unheard-of luxuries and thinks himself a much finer gentleman than I. As I’m a consistent radical I go in only for equality; I don’t go in for the superiority of the younger brothers.’ Two of his four sisters, the second and fourth, were married, one of them having done very well, as they said, the other only so-so. The husband of the elder, Lord Haycock, was a very good fellow, but unfortunately a horrid Tory; and his wife, like all good English wives, was worse than her husband. The other had espoused a smallish squire in Norfolk and, though married but the other day, had already five children. This information and much more Lord Warburton imparted to his young American listener, taking pains to make many things clear and to lay bare to her apprehension the peculiarities of English life. Isabel was often amused at his explicitness and at the small allowance he seemed to make either for her own experience or for her imagination. ‘He thinks I’m a barbarian,’ she said, ‘and that I’ve never seen forks and spoons”; and she used to ask him artless questions for the pleasure of hearing him answer seriously. Then when he had fallen into the trap, ‘It’s a pity you can’t see me in my war-paint and feathers,’ she remarked; ‘if I had known how kind you are to the poor savages I would have brought over my native costume!’ Lord Warburton had travelled through the United States and knew much more about them than Isabel; he was so good as to say that America was the most charming country in the world, but his recollections of it appeared to encourage the idea that Americans in England would need to have a great many things explained to them. ‘If I had only had you to explain things to me in America!’ he said. ‘I was rather puzzled in your country; in fact I was quite bewildered, and the trouble was that the explanations only puzzled me more. You know I think they often gave me the wrong ones on purpose; they’re rather clever about that over there. But when I explain you can trust me; about what I tell you there’s no mistake.’ There was no mistake at least about his being very intelligent and cultivated and knowing almost everything in the world. Although he gave the most interesting and thrilling glimpses Isabel felt he never did it to exhibit himself, and though he had had rare chances and had tumbled in, as she put it, for high prizes, he was as far as possible from making a merit of it. He had enjoyed the best things of life, but they had not spoiled his sense of proportion. His quality was a mixture of the effect of rich experienced, so easily come by!—with a modesty at times almost boyish; the sweet and wholesome savour of which—it was as agreeable as something tasted—lost nothing from the addition of a tone of responsible kindness.
由于她热衷于浪漫的效果，沃伯顿勋爵大胆地表示希望她有一天能来看看他的房子，一个非常奇怪的老地方。他从图切特夫人那里得到了一个承诺，让她带她的侄女去洛克利，拉尔夫表示，如果他的父亲能够饶过他，他愿意照顾女士们。沃伯顿勋爵向我们的女主人公保证，与此同时，他的姐妹们会来看她。当他在花园考特时，她和他的姐妹们一起度过了几个小时，她对他的姐妹们进行了探查，了解了一些关于他家庭的事情。当伊莎贝尔感兴趣时，她会问很多问题，而且由于她的同伴是一个健谈的人，她这次的敦促绝非徒劳。他告诉她，他有四个姐妹和两个兄弟，并且失去了双亲。兄弟姐妹都是非常好的人——“你知道，不是特别聪明，”他说，“但是非常正派和令人愉快”；他好心地希望阿切尔小姐能很了解他们。其中一个兄弟在教堂里，定居在洛克利的家庭生活中，那是一个沉重而庞大的教区，尽管他在每个可以想象的话题上的想法都与他自己不同，但他是一个优秀的人。然后沃伯顿勋爵提到了他哥哥的一些观点，这些观点是伊莎贝尔经常听到表达的，而且她应该受到人类家庭相当一部分人的欢迎。事实上，她认为她已经控制住了其中的许多人，直到他向她保证她完全错了，这确实是不可能的，她无疑想象自己招待了他们，但她可以相信，如果她稍微考虑一下，她会发现里面什么也没有。 当她回答说她已经非常仔细地思考了所涉及的几个问题时，他宣称她只是他经常震惊的另一个例子——事实上，在世界上所有人中，美国人是最重要的。非常迷信。他们每个人都是保守党和偏执狂。没有像美国保守派那样的保守派。她的叔叔和表弟在那里证明了这一点。没有什么比他们的许多观点更中世纪的了。他们的想法是当今英国人羞于承认的；而且，他们还厚颜无耻地说道，勋爵大人笑着说，假装他们比出生在这个英格兰并拥有相当大一部分土地的人更了解这个可怜的、亲爱的、愚蠢的古老英格兰的需要和危险——这对他来说越是耻辱。 ！伊莎贝尔从所有这些中了解到，沃伯顿勋爵是一位最新型的贵族、一位改革者、一位激进分子、一位对古老方式的蔑视者。他的另一个兄弟在印度参军，性格相当狂野、固执，除了为沃伯顿欠债以支付哥哥最宝贵的特权外，还没有多大用处。 “我想我不会再付钱了，”她的朋友说。 “他的生活比我好得多，享受着闻所未闻的奢侈品，并认为自己是一个比我更优秀的绅士。由于我是一个一贯的激进分子，所以我只追求平等；我不喜欢弟弟们的优越感。”他的四个姐妹中，有两个，二姐和四姐，都已结婚，其中一个正如他们所说，过得很好，另一个则马马虎虎。老大的丈夫海考克勋爵是一个非常好的人，但不幸的是他是一个可怕的保守党人。而他的妻子，像所有优秀的英国妻子一样，比她的丈夫还糟糕。 另一个在诺福克娶了一位小乡绅，虽然前几天结婚了，但已经有了五个孩子。沃伯顿勋爵向他年轻的美国听众传达了这些信息以及更多信息，煞费苦心地澄清了许多事情，并向她揭示了英国生活的特殊性。伊莎贝尔常常被他的直白以及他似乎为她自己的经历或她的想象力所给予的一点点宽容所逗乐。 “他认为我是野蛮人，”她说，“而且我从未见过叉子和勺子”；她常常问他一些朴素的问题，只是为了听他认真回答。然后，当他落入陷阱时，“很遗憾，你看不到我穿着战争油漆和羽毛的我，”她说道； “如果我知道你对那些可怜的野蛮人有多友善，我就会带上我的本土服装了！”沃伯顿勋爵游历了美国，对他们的了解比伊莎贝尔多得多。他很擅长说美国是世界上最有魅力的国家，但他对美国的回忆似乎鼓励了这样一种想法：在英国的美国人需要向他们解释很多事情。 “要是你在美国给我解释就好了！”他说。 “我对你们的国家感到相当困惑；事实上，我很困惑，问题是这些解释只会让我更加困惑。你知道我认为他们经常故意给我错误的信息；他们在这方面相当聪明。但当我解释时你可以相信我；我告诉你的话没有错误。”至少他非常聪明，有教养，几乎了解世界上的一切，这是没有错误的。 虽然他给了最有趣和最激动人心的一瞥，但伊莎贝尔觉得他从来没有这样做是为了展示自己，尽管他有难得的机会，并且正如她所说的那样，为了获得高额奖金而跌入谷底，但他离做出贡献还差得很远。它的。他享受过生命中最美好的事物，但这些并没有破坏他的分寸感。他的品质是丰富经验的混合体，很容易获得！——有时带着几近孩子气的谦虚；其甜美而有益健康的味道——就像尝到某种东西一样令人愉快——并没有因为增加了一种负责任的友善语气而失去任何东西。

‘I like your specimen English gentleman very much,’ Isabel said to Ralph after Lord Warburton had gone.
“我非常喜欢你这位典型的英国绅士，”沃伯顿勋爵走后，伊莎贝尔对拉尔夫说道。

‘I like him too—I love him well,’ Ralph returned. ‘But I pity him more.’
“我也喜欢他——我非常爱他，”拉尔夫回答道。 “但我更可怜他。”

Isabel looked at him askance. ‘Why, that seems to me his only faultthat one can’t pity him a little. He appears to have everything, to know everything, to be everything.’
伊莎贝尔斜眼看着他。 “哎呀，在我看来，这似乎是他唯一的过错——人们不能对他有一点怜悯。”他似乎拥有一切，知道一切，成为一切。

‘Oh, he’s in a bad way!’ Ralph insisted.
“噢，他的情况很糟糕！”拉尔夫坚持道。

‘I suppose you don’t mean in health?’
“我想你指的不是健康？”

‘No, as to that he’s detestably sound. What I mean is that he’s a man with a great position who’s playing all sorts of tricks with it. He doesn’t take himself seriously.’
“不，就这一点而言，他的健全程度令人厌恶。我的意思是，他是一个拥有很高地位的人，但却利用它玩弄各种把戏。他不认真对待自己。

‘Does he regard himself as a joke?’
“他认为自己是个笑话吗？”

‘Much worse; he regards himself as an imposition—as an abuse.’
'更糟糕;他认为自己是一种强加——一种虐待。”

‘Well, perhaps he is,’ said Isabel.
“嗯，也许他是，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘Perhaps he is—though on the whole I don’t think so. But in that case what’s more pitiable than a sentient, self-conscious abuse planted by other hands, deeply rooted but aching with a sense of its injustice? For me, in his place, I could be as solemn as a statue of Buddha. He occupies a position that appeals to my imagination. Great responsibilities, great opportunities, great consideration, great wealth, great power, a natural share in the public affairs of a great country. But he’s all in a muddle about himself, his position, his power, and indeed about everything in the world. He’s the victim of a critical age; he has ceased to believe in himself and he doesn’t know what to believe in. When I attempt to tell him (because if I were he I know very well what I should believe in) he calls me a pampered bigot. I believe he seriously thinks me an awful Philistine; he says I don’t understand my time. I understand it certainly better than he, who can neither abolish himself as a nuisance nor maintain himself as an institution.’
“也许他是——尽管总的来说我不这么认为。但在这种情况下，还有什么比其他人种下的、有感情的、自觉的虐待更可怜的呢？这种虐待根深蒂固，但却因不公正的感觉而痛苦不堪。对我来说，在他的位置上，我可以像佛像一样庄严。他所处的位置很能激发我的想象力。伟大的责任、巨大的机遇、巨大的考虑、巨大的财富、巨大的权力，自然要参与一个伟大国家的公共事务。但他对自己、他的地位、他的权力，甚至对世界上的一切都感到困惑。他是关键时代的受害者；他不再相信自己，也不知道该相信什么。当我试图告诉他时（因为如果我是他，我很清楚自己应该相信什么），他称我为一个被宠坏的偏执狂。我相信他认真地认为我是一个可怕的庸人；他说我不明白我的时间。我当然比他更了解这一点，他既不能废除自己作为一个麻烦，也不能维持自己作为一个机构。

‘He doesn’t look very wretched,’ Isabel observed.
“他看起来并不十分可怜，”伊莎贝尔观察道。

‘Possibly not; though, being a man of a good deal of charming taste, I think he often has uncomfortable hours. But what is it to say of a being of his opportunities that he’s not miserable? Besides, I believe he is.’
‘可能不会；不过，作为一个很有魅力的人，我认为他的工作时间常常很不舒服。但怎样才能说一个拥有机会的人并不痛苦呢？此外，我相信他是。

‘I don’t,’ said Isabel.
“我不知道，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘Well,’ her cousin rejoined, ‘if he isn’t he ought to be!’
“好吧，”她的表弟回答道，“如果他不是，他也应该是！”

In the afternoon she spent an hour with her uncle on the lawn, where the old man sat, as usual, with his shawl over his legs and his large cup of diluted tea in his hands. In the course of conversation he asked her what she thought of their late visitor.
下午，她和叔叔在草坪上呆了一个小时，老人像往常一样坐在那儿，披肩盖在腿上，手里端着一大杯淡茶。在谈话过程中，他问她对已故访客有何看法。

Isabel was prompt. ‘I think he’s charming.’
伊莎贝尔很及时。 “我认为他很有魅力。”

‘He’s a nice person,’ said Mr. Touchett, ‘but I don’t recommend you to fall in love with him.’
“他是一个好人，”图切特先生说，“但我不建议你爱上他。”

‘I shall not do it then; I shall never fall in love but on your recommendation. Moreover,’ Isabel added, ‘my cousin gives me rather a sad account of Lord Warburton.’
‘那我就不这么做了；除非你推荐，否则我永远不会坠入爱河。此外，”伊莎贝尔补充道，“我的表弟给我讲述了沃伯顿勋爵的悲惨经历。”

‘Oh, indeed? I don’t know what there may be to say, but you must remember that Ralph must talk.’
哦，确实如此？我不知道该说什么，但你必须记住，拉尔夫必须说话。”

‘He thinks your friend’s too subversive—or not subversive enough! I don’t quite understand which,’ said Isabel.
“他认为你的朋友太具有颠覆性——或者不够颠覆！”我不太明白是哪一个，”伊莎贝尔说。

The old man shook his head slowly, smiled and put down his cup. ‘I don’t know which either. He goes very far, but it’s quite possible he doesn’t go far enough. He seems to want to do away with a good many things, but he seems to want to remain himself. I suppose that’s natural, but rather inconsistent.’
老者缓缓摇头，微笑着放下了杯子。 ‘我也不知道是哪一个。他走得很远，但很可能他走得还不够远。他似乎想废除很多东西，但他似乎想保持自己。我认为这是自然的，但相当不一致。

‘Oh, I hope he’ll remain himself,’ said Isabel. ‘If he were to be done away with his friends would miss him sadly.’
“哦，我希望他保持原样，”伊莎贝尔说。 “如果他和他的朋友们一起死去，他们会悲伤地想念他。”

‘Well,’ said the old man, ‘I guess he’ll stay and amuse his friends. I should certainly miss him very much here at Gardencourt. He always amuses me when he comes over, and I think he amuses himself as well. There’s a considerable number like him, round in society; they’re very fashionable just now. I don’t know what they’re trying to dowhether they’re trying to get up a revolution. I hope at any rate they’ll put it off till after I’m gone. You see they want to disestablish everything; but I’m a pretty big landowner here, and I don’t want to be disestablished. I wouldn’t have come over if I had thought they were going to behave like that,’ Mr. Touchett went on with expanding hilarity. ‘I came over because I thought England was a safe country. I call it a regular fraud if they are going to introduce any considerable changes; there’ll be a large number disappointed in that case.’
“好吧，”老人说，“我想他会留下来逗乐他的朋友们。”我在花园球场肯定会非常想念他。他过来时总是逗我开心，我想他也逗自己开心。社会上像他这样的人有相当多。它们现在很时尚。我不知道他们想做什么，是否想掀起一场革命。无论如何，我希望他们能把它推迟到我走后。你看他们想要推翻一切；但我是这里相当大的地主，我不想失去地位。如果我以为他们会那样做，我就不会过来。”图切特先生继续说道，笑意不断扩大。 “我来这里是因为我认为英格兰是一个安全的国家。如果他们要引入任何重大改变，我称其为常规欺诈；在这种情况下，很多人都会感到失望。

‘Oh, I do hope they’ll make a revolution!’ Isabel exclaimed ‘I should delight in seeing a revolution.’
“哦，我真希望他们能发动一场革命！”伊莎贝尔惊呼道，“我应该很高兴看到一场革命。”

‘Let me see,’ said her uncle, with a humorous intention; ‘I forget whether you’re on the side of the old or on the side of the new. I’ve heard you take such opposite views.’
“让我想想，”她叔叔带着幽默的口吻说道。 ‘我忘记了你是站在旧的一边还是新的一边。我听说你持相反的观点。

‘I’m on the side of both. I guess I’m a little on the side of everything. In a revolution—after it was well begun—I think I should be a high, proud loyalist. One sympathizes more with them, and they’ve a chance to behave so exquisitely. I mean so picturesquely.’
“我站在两者一边。我想我在所有事情上都有点偏向一边。在一场革命中——在它开始良好之后——我想我应该成为一个崇高、自豪的忠诚者。人们更加同情他们，他们也有机会表现得如此精致。我的意思是如此美丽。

‘I don’t know that I understand what you mean by behaving picturesquely, but it seems to me that you do that always, my dear.’
“我不知道我是否理解你所说的举止优雅是什么意思，但在我看来，你总是这样做，亲爱的。”

‘Oh, you lovely man, if I could believe that!’ the girl interrupted.
“哦，你可爱的男人，如果我能相信的话！”女孩打断道。

‘I’m afraid, after all, you won’t have the pleasure of going gracefully to the guillotine here just now,’ Mr. Touchett went on. ‘If you want to see a big outbreak you must pay us a long visit. You see, when you come to the point it wouldn’t suit them to be taken at their word.’
“我担心，你现在不会有幸优雅地走上断头台，”图切特先生继续说道。 “如果你想看到大规模疫情爆发，你就必须长期拜访我们。你看，当你谈到这一点时，他们不适合相信他们的话。

‘Of whom are you speaking?’
“你在说谁？”

‘Well, I mean Lord Warburton and his friends—the radicals of the upper class. Of course I only know the way it strikes me. They talk about the changes, but I don’t think they quite realize. You and I, you know, we know what it is to have lived under democratic institutions: I always thought them very comfortable, but I was used to them from the first. And then I ain’t a lord; you’re a lady, my dear, but I ain’t a lord. Now over here I don’t think it quite comes home to them. It’s a matter of every day and every hour, and I don’t think many of them would find it as pleasant as what they’ve got. Of course if they want to try, it’s their own business; but I expect they won’t try very hard.’
“嗯，我指的是沃伯顿勋爵和他的朋友们——上层阶级的激进分子。当然，我只知道它对我的影响。他们谈论这些变化，但我认为他们并没有完全意识到。你和我，你知道，我们知道生活在民主制度下是什么感觉：我一直认为它们很舒服，但我从一开始就习惯了它们。那么我就不是一个领主了；你是一位女士，亲爱的，但我不是一位勋爵。现在，我认为他们还没有完全理解这一点。这是每一天、每一个小时的问题，我认为他们中的很多人不会觉得这像他们所拥有的那样令人愉快。当然，如果他们想尝试，那是他们自己的事；但我预计他们不会太努力。”

‘Don’t you think they’re sincere?’ Isabel asked.
“你不觉得他们是真诚的吗？”伊莎贝尔问。

‘Well, they want to feel earnest,’ Mr. Touchett allowed; ‘but it seems as if they took it out in theories mostly. Their radical views are a kind of amusement; they’ve got to have some amusement, and they might have coarser tastes than that. You see they’re very luxurious, and these progressive ideas are about their biggest luxury. They make them feel moral and yet don’t damage their position. They think a great deal of their position; don’t let one of them ever persuade you he doesn’t, for if you were to proceed on that basis you’d be pulled up very short.’
“嗯，他们想要感到真诚，”图切特先生承认。 “但似乎他们主要是在理论上把它排除掉了。”他们的激进观点是一种娱乐；他们必须有一些娱乐，而他们的品味可能比这更粗俗。你看它们非常奢华，而这些进步的想法就是它们最大的奢华。它们让他们感到道德，但又不会损害他们的地位。他们非常重视自己的立场；不要让他们中的一个人说服你他不这样做，因为如果你在这个基础上继续下去，你就会被拉得很短。

Isabel followed her uncle’s argument, which he unfolded with his quaint distinctness, most attentively, and though she wag unacquainted with the British aristocracy she found it in harmony with her general impressions of human nature. But she felt moved to put in a protest on Lord Warburton’s behalf. ‘I don’t believe Lord Warburton’s a humbug; I don’t care what the others are. I should like to see Lord Warburton put to the test.’
伊莎贝尔听从了她叔叔的论点，他用他的古怪、清晰、最专注的方式展开了论点，尽管她开玩笑说与英国贵族不熟悉，但她发现这与她对人性的总体印象是一致的。但她很感动，代表沃伯顿勋爵提出抗议。 “我不相信沃伯顿勋爵是个骗子；我不在乎其他人是什么。我希望看到沃伯顿勋爵接受考验。

‘Heaven deliver me from my friends!’ Mr. Touchett answered. ‘Lord Warburton’s a very amiable young man—a very fine young man. He has a hundred thousand a year. He owns fifty thousand acres of the soil of this little island and ever so many other things besides. He has half a dozen houses to live in. He has a seat in Parliament as I have one at my own dinner-table. He has elegant tastes—cares for literature, for art, for science, for charming young ladies. The most elegant is his taste for the new views. It affords him a great deal of pleasure—more perhaps than anything else, except the young ladies. His old house over there—what does he call it, Lockleigh?—is very attractive; but I don’t think it’s as pleasant as this. That doesn’t matter, however—he has so many others. His views don’t hurt any one as far as I can see; they certainly don’t hurt himself. And if there were to be a revolution he would come off very easily. They wouldn’t touch him, they’d leave him as he is: he’s too much liked.’
“上天救我脱离我的朋友们吧！”图切特先生回答道。 “沃伯顿勋爵是一个非常和蔼可亲的年轻人——一个非常优秀的年轻人。他一年有十万。他拥有这个小岛上五万英亩的土地，此外还有许多其他东西。他有六栋房子可供居住。他在议会中拥有一个席位，就像我在自己的餐桌上拥有一个席位一样。他品味高雅——关心文学、关心艺术、关心科学、关心迷人的小姐。最优雅的是他对新观点的品味。这给他带来了极大的快乐——也许比其他任何事情都快乐，除了年轻的女士们。他那边的老房子——洛克利，他怎么称呼它？——非常吸引人。但我不认为这有那么令人愉快。不过，这并不重要——他还有很多其他人。据我看来，他的观点不会伤害任何人；他的观点不会伤害任何人。他们当然不会伤害自己。如果发生革命，他很容易就下台了。他们不会碰他，他们会让他保持原样：他太受欢迎了。

‘Ah, he couldn’t be a martyr even if he wished!’ Isabel sighed. ‘That’s a very poor position.’
“啊，即使他愿意，他也不能成为烈士！”伊莎贝尔叹了口气。 “这是一个非常糟糕的位置。”

‘He’ll never be a martyr unless you make him one,’ said the old man.
“除非你让他成为烈士，否则他永远不会成为烈士。”老人说。

Isabel shook her head; there might have been something laughable in the fact that she did it with a touch of melancholy. ‘I shall never make any one a martyr.’
伊莎贝尔摇摇头；她这样做时带着一丝忧郁，这或许有些可笑。 “我永远不会让任何人成为烈士。”

‘You’ll never be one, I hope.’
“我希望你永远不会成为其中之一。”

‘I hope not. But you don’t pity Lord Warburton then as Ralph does?
'我希望不是。但你不像拉尔夫那样同情沃伯顿勋爵吗？

Her uncle looked at her a while with genial acuteness. ‘Yes, I do, after all!’
她叔叔用和蔼而敏锐的目光看了她一会儿。 “是的，毕竟我愿意！”

Chapter 9
第9章

The two Misses Molyneux, this nobleman’s sisters, came presently to call upon her, and Isabel took a fancy to the young ladies, who appeared to her to show a most original stamp. It is true that when she described them to her cousin by that term he declared that no epithet could be less applicable than this to the two Misses Molyneux, since there were fifty thousand young women in England who exactly resembled them. Deprived of this advantage, however, Isabel’s visitors retained that of an extreme sweetness and shyness of demeanour, and of having, as she thought, eyes like the balanced basins, the circles of ‘ornamental water,’ set, in parterres, among the geraniums.
这位贵族的姐妹莫利纽克斯两位小姐不久就来看望了她，伊莎贝尔看上了这两位年轻女士，她们在她看来展现出了最原始的气质。确实，当她用这个词向她的表弟描述她们时，他宣称没有什么绰号比这更适合莫利纽克斯两位小姐了，因为英国有五万名年轻女子与她们一模一样。然而，失去了这一优势，伊莎贝尔的来访者却保留了一种极其甜美和害羞的举止，并且正如她所认为的那样，他们的眼睛就像平衡的水盆，“观赏水”的圆圈，设置在花坛的天竺葵之间。 。

‘They’re not morbid, at any rate, whatever they are,’ our heroine said to herself; and she deemed this a great charm, for two or three of the friends of her girlhood had been regrettably open to the charge (they would have been so nice without it), to say nothing of Isabel’s having occasionally suspected it as a tendency of her own. The Misses Molyneux were not in their first youth, but they had bright, fresh complexions and something of the smile of childhood. Yes, their eyes, which Isabel admired, were round, quiet and contented, and their figures, also of a generous roundness, were encased in sealskin jackets. Their friendliness was great, so great that they were almost embarrassed to show it; they seemed somewhat afraid of the young lady from the other side of the world and rather looked than spoke their good wishes. But they made it clear to her that they hoped she would come to luncheon at Lockleigh, where they lived with their brother, and then they might see her very, very often. They wondered if she wouldn’t come over some day and sleep: they were expecting some people on the twenty-ninth, so perhaps she would come while the people were there.
“无论如何，无论它们是什么，它们都不是病态的，”我们的女主人公对自己说；她认为这是一个巨大的魅力，因为她少女时代的两三个朋友很遗憾地接受了这种指控（如果没有它，他们会很好），更不用说伊莎贝尔偶尔怀疑这是她的一种倾向。自己的。莫利纽克斯小姐已经不再年轻了，但她们有着明亮、清新的肤色和童年的微笑。是的，他们的眼睛是圆的、安静的、满足的，伊莎贝尔很欣赏，他们的身材也很圆，穿着海豹皮夹克。他们非常友善，以至于他们都不好意思表现出来。他们似乎有些害怕这位来自世界另一端的小姐，只看而不说他们的美好祝愿。但他们向她明确表示，希望她能来洛克利参加午餐会，他们和兄弟住在那里，然后他们就可以经常见到她。他们想知道她是否有一天不会过来睡觉：他们在等二十九号有人来，所以也许当人们在那里的时候她会来。

‘I’m afraid it isn’t any one very remarkable,’ said the elder sister; ‘but I dare say you’ll take us as you find us.’
“恐怕这并不是什么了不起的事，”姐姐说。 “但我敢说，当你找到我们时，你会带我们去的。”

‘I shall find you delightful; I think you’re enchanting just as you are,’ replied Isabel, who often praised profusely.
‘我会发现你令人愉快；我认为你本身就很迷人。”伊莎贝尔回答道，她经常大加赞扬。

Her visitors flushed, and her cousin told her, after they were gone, that if she said such things to those poor girls they would think she was in some wild, free manner practising on them: he was sure it was the first time they had been called enchanting.
她的访客脸红了，他们走后，她的表弟告诉她，如果她对那些可怜的女孩说这样的话，她们会认为她是在以某种狂野、自由的方式在她们身上练习：他确信这是她们第一次被称为妖娆。

‘I can’t help it,’ Isabel answered. ‘I think it’s lovely to be so quiet and reasonable and satisfied. I should like to be like that.’
“我没办法，”伊莎贝尔回答。 “我认为如此安静、合理和满足是件好事。我希望成为那样的人。

‘Heaven forbid!’ cried Ralph with ardour.
“天哪！”拉尔夫热情地喊道。

‘I mean to try and imitate them,’ said Isabel. ‘I want very much to see them at home.’
“我想尝试模仿他们，”伊莎贝尔说。 “我非常想在家里见到他们。”

She had this pleasure a few days later, when, with Ralph and his mother, she drove over to Lockleigh. She found the Misses Molyneux sitting in a vast drawing-room (she perceived afterwards it was one of several) in a wilderness of faded chintz; they were dressed on this occasion in black velveteen. Isabel liked them even better at home than she had done at Gardencourt, and was more than ever struck with the fact that they were not morbid. It had seemed to her before that if they had a fault it was a want of play of mind; but she presently saw they were capable of deep emotion. Before luncheon she was alone with them for some time, on one side of the room, while Lord Warburton, at a distance, talked to Mrs. Touchett.
几天后，当她与拉尔夫和他的母亲一起开车前往洛克利时，她感到很高兴。她发现莫利纽克斯小姐坐在一间宽敞的客厅里（后来她意识到这是几间客厅之一），周围铺满了褪色的印花棉布。这次他们穿着黑色平绒衣服。伊莎贝尔在家里比在花园庭院更喜欢它们，而且比以往任何时候都更惊讶于它们并不病态。以前她觉得，如果他们有什么过错，那就是心智不善。但她很快就发现他们能够表达深厚的情感。午餐前，她在房间的一侧与他们单独相处了一段时间，而沃伯顿勋爵则在远处与图切特夫人交谈。

‘Is it true your brother’s such a great radical?’ Isabel asked. She knew it was true, but we have seen that her interest in human nature was keen, and she had a desire to draw the Misses Molyneux out.
“你哥哥真的是一个非常激进的人吗？”伊莎贝尔问。她知道这是真的，但我们看到她对人性的兴趣很浓厚，她想把莫利纽克斯小姐引出来。

‘Oh dear, yes; he’s immensely advanced,’ said Mildred, the younger sister.
“噢，亲爱的，是的；”他非常进步，”妹妹米尔德里德说。

‘At the same time Warburton’s very reasonable.’ Miss Molyneux observed.
“同时，沃伯顿也非常通情达理。”莫利纽克斯小姐评论道。

Isabel watched him a moment at the other side of the room; he was clearly trying hard to make himself agreeable to Mrs. Touchett. Ralph had met the frank advances of one of the dogs before the fire that the temperature of an English August, in the ancient expanses, had not made an impertinence. ‘Do you suppose your brother’s sincere?’ Isabel enquired with a smile.
伊莎贝尔在房间的另一边看了他一会儿。显然，他正在努力让自己讨好图切特太太。拉尔夫在篝火前遇到了一只狗的坦率的求爱，认为英国八月的气温，在古老的广阔土地上，并没有显得无礼。 “你认为你哥哥是真诚的吗？”伊莎贝尔微笑着问道。

‘Oh, he must be, you know!’ Mildred exclaimed quickly, while the elder sister gazed at our heroine in silence.
“哦，他一定是，你知道！”米尔德里德迅速惊呼道，而姐姐则默默地看着我们的女主角。

‘Do you think he would stand the test?’
“你认为他能经受住考验吗？”

‘The test?’
'考试？'

‘I mean for instance having to give up all this.’
“我的意思是，例如必须放弃这一切。”

‘Having to give up Lockleigh?’ said Miss Molyneux, finding her voice.
“必须放弃洛克利吗？”莫利纽克斯小姐找到了自己的声音问道。

‘Yes, and the other places; what are they called?’
“是的，还有其他地方；他们叫什么？

The two sisters exchanged an almost frightened glance. ‘Do you meando you mean on account of the expense?’ the younger one asked.
两姐妹交换了一个近乎惊恐的眼神。 “你的意思是考虑到费用吗？”年轻的问道。

‘I dare say he might let one or two of his houses,’ said the other.
“我敢说他可能会租出一两栋房子，”另一个人说。

‘Let them for nothing?’ Isabel demanded.
“白白放他们走？”伊莎贝尔问道。

‘I can’t fancy his giving up his property,’ said Miss Molyneux.
“我无法想象他会放弃自己的财产，”莫利纽克斯小姐说。

‘Ah, I’m afraid he is an impostor!’ Isabel returned. ‘Don’t you think it’s a false position?’
“啊，我担心他是个骗子！”伊莎贝尔回答道。 “你不认为这是一个错误的立场吗？”

Her companions, evidently, had lost themselves. ‘My brother position?’ Miss Molyneux enquired.
显然，她的同伴们已经迷失了方向。 “我哥哥的位置？”莫利纽克斯小姐问道。

‘It’s thought a very good position,’ said the younger sister. ‘It’s the first position in this part of the country.’
“这被认为是一个非常好的位置，”妹妹说。 “这是该国这个地区的第一个位置。”

‘I dare say you think me very irreverent,’ Isabel took occasion to remark. ‘I suppose you revere your brother and are rather afraid of him.’
“我敢说你认为我非常无礼，”伊莎贝尔趁机说道。 “我想你尊敬你的兄弟并且相当害怕他。”

‘Of course one looks up to one’s brother,’ said Miss Molyneux simply.
“当然会尊敬自己的兄弟，”莫利纽克斯小姐简单地说。

‘If you do that he must be very good—because you, evidently, are beautifully good.’
“如果你这样做，他一定非常优秀——因为你显然非常优秀。”

‘He’s most kind. It will never be known, the good he does.’
‘他是最善良的。他所做的善事永远不会被人知道。

‘His ability is known,’ Mildred added; ‘every one thinks it’s immense.’
“他的能力是众所周知的，”米尔德里德补充道。 “每个人都认为这是巨大的。”

‘Oh, I can see that,’ said Isabel. ‘But if I were he I should wish to fight to the death: I mean for the heritage of the past. I should hold it tight.’
“哦，我明白了，”伊莎贝尔说。 “但如果我是他，我会希望战斗至死：我的意思是为了过去的遗产。我应该紧紧抓住它。

‘I think one ought to be liberal,’ Mildred argued gently. ‘We’ve always been so, even from the earliest times.’
“我认为一个人应该是自由派，”米尔德里德温和地辩解道。 “我们一直都是这样，甚至从最早的时候就是如此。”

‘Ah well,’ said Isabel, ‘you’ve made a great success of it; I don’t wonder you like it. I see you’re very fond of crewels.’
“啊，好吧，”伊莎贝尔说，“你已经取得了巨大的成功；我不奇怪你喜欢它。我看你很喜欢双线呢。

When Lord Warburton showed her the house, after luncheon, seemed to her a matter of course that it should be a noble picture. Within, it had been a good deal modernized—some of its best points had lost their purity; but as they saw it from the gardens, a stout grey pile, of the softest, deepest, most weather-fretted hue, rising from a broad, still moat, it affected the young visitor as a castle in a legend. The day was cool and rather lustreless; the first note of autumn had been struck, and the watery sunshine rested on the walls in blurred and desultory gleams, washing them, as it were, in places tenderly chosen, where the ache of antiquity was keenest. Her host’s brother, the Vicar, had come to luncheon, and Isabel had had five minutes’ talk with him—time enough to institute a search for a rich ecclesiasticism and give it up as vain. The marks of the Vicar of Lockleigh were a big, athletic figure, a candid, natural countenance, a capacious appetite and a tendency to indiscriminate laughter. Isabel learned afterwards from her cousin that before taking orders he had been a mighty wrestler and that he was still, on occasion—in the privacy of the family circle as it were—quite capable of flooring his man. Isabel liked him—she was in the mood for liking everything; but her imagination was a good deal taxed to think of him as a source of spiritual aid. The whole party, on leaving lunch, went to walk in the grounds; but Lord Warburton exercised some ingenuity in engaging his least familiar guest in a stroll apart from the others.
午餐后，当沃伯顿勋爵带她参观这座房子时，她觉得这应该是一幅高贵的画，这是理所当然的。它的内部已经进行了很大程度的现代化改造——其中一些最好的地方已经失去了纯粹性；但当他们从花园里看到它时，它是一座粗壮的灰色建筑，有着最柔和、最深沉、最经受风雨侵蚀的色调，从一条宽阔、静止的护城河中升起，它给年轻的游客留下了传说中的城堡的印象。天气凉爽，但毫无光泽。秋天的第一个音符已经敲响，水汪汪的阳光照在墙上，发出模糊而杂乱的光芒，在精心挑选的、古老的疼痛最强烈的地方清洗着它们。她主人的兄弟牧师来参加午餐，伊莎贝尔和他聊了五分钟——这段时间足以开始寻找丰富的教会主义，并因为徒劳而放弃。洛克利牧师的标志是身材魁梧、运动健壮、面容坦率、自然、胃口大、爱笑。伊莎贝尔后来从她的表弟那里得知，在接受命令之前，他曾是一名强大的摔跤手，而且有时，在家庭圈子的隐私中，他仍然很有能力击败他的男人。伊莎贝尔喜欢他——她有心情喜欢一切；她喜欢他。但她的想象力太强了，无法把他视为精神援助的来源。吃完午饭后，一行人都去花园里散步。但沃伯顿勋爵巧妙地让这位最不熟悉的客人与其他客人分开散步。

‘I wish you to see the place properly, seriously,’ he said. ‘You can’t do so if your attention is distracted by irrelevant gossip.’ His own conversation (though he told Isabel a good deal about the house, which had a very curious history) was not purely archaeological; he reverted at intervals to matters more personal—matters personal to the young lady as well as to himself. But at last, after a pause of some duration, returning for a moment to their ostensible theme, ‘Ah, well,’ he said, ‘I’m very glad indeed you like the old barrack. I wish you could see more of it—that you could stay here a while. My sisters have taken an immense fancy to you—if that would be any inducement.’
“我希望你能认真地、正确地参观这个地方，”他说。 “如果你的注意力被不相干的八卦分散了，你就无法这样做。”他自己的谈话（尽管他告诉伊莎贝尔很多关于这座房子的事情，它有一段非常好奇的历史）并不纯粹是考古方面的；而是关于考古的。他时不时地谈论一些更私人的事情——对这位年轻女士和他自己来说都是私人的事情。但最后，在停顿了一段时间之后，暂时回到了他们表面上的主题，“啊，好吧，”他说，“我很高兴你确实喜欢这个旧营房。”我希望你能看到更多——希望你能在这里多待一会儿。我的姐妹们非常喜欢你——如果这有什么诱因的话。”

‘There’s no want of inducements,’ Isabel answered; ‘but I’m afraid I can’t make engagements. I’m quite in my aunt’s hands.’
“没有什么诱惑，”伊莎贝尔回答道。 ‘但我恐怕无法订婚。我完全在我姨妈的掌控之中。

‘Ah, pardon me if I say I don’t exactly believe that. I’m pretty sure you can do whatever you want.’
‘啊，如果我说我不太相信这一点，请原谅我。我很确定你可以做任何你想做的事。

‘I’m sorry if I make that impression on you; I don’t think it’s a nice impression to make.’
“如果我给你留下这样的印象，我很抱歉；我认为这不会给人留下很好的印象。

‘It has the merit of permitting me to hope.’ And Lord Warburton paused a moment.
“它的优点是让我充满希望。”沃伯顿勋爵停顿了一下。

‘To hope what?’
“希望什么？”

‘That in future I may see you often.’
“以后我可能会经常见到你。”

‘Ah,’ said Isabel, ‘to enjoy that pleasure I needn’t be so terribly emancipated.’
“啊，”伊莎贝尔说，“我不需要如此彻底地解放，就能享受这种快乐。”

‘Doubtless not; and yet, at the same time, I don’t think your uncle likes me.’
‘毫无疑问不是；但与此同时，我认为你叔叔不喜欢我。”

‘You’re very much mistaken. I’ve heard him speak very highly of you.’
‘你大错特错了。我听他对你评价很高。

‘I’m glad you have talked about me,’ said Lord Warburton. ‘But, I nevertheless don’t think he’d like me to keep coming to Gardencourt.’
“我很高兴你谈论我，”沃伯顿勋爵说。 “但是，我认为他不希望我继续来花园考特。”

‘I can’t answer for my uncle’s tastes,’ the girl rejoined, ‘though I ought as far as possible to take them into account. But for myself I shall be very glad to see you.’
“我无法回答我叔叔的品味，”女孩回答道，“尽管我应该尽可能地考虑他们。但就我个人而言，我会很高兴见到你。

‘Now that’s what I like to hear you say. I’m charmed when you say that.’
‘现在这就是我喜欢听你说的话。当你这么说时，我很着迷。

‘You’re easily charmed, my lord,’ said Isabel.
“您很容易被迷住，大人，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘No, I’m not easily charmed!’ And then he stopped a moment. ‘But you’ve charmed me, Miss Archer.’
“不，我不容易被迷住！”然后他停了下来。 “但是你让我着迷，阿切尔小姐。”

These words were uttered with an indefinable sound which startled the girl; it struck her as the prelude to something grave: she had heard the sound before and she recognized it. She had no wish, however, that for the moment such a prelude should have a sequel, and she said as gaily as possible and as quickly as an appreciable degree of agitation would allow her: ‘I’m afraid there’s no prospect of my being able to come here again.’
这句话的声音难以辨认，让女孩吃了一惊。她觉得这是某件严重事情的前奏：她以前听过这个声音，也认出了它。然而，她暂时不希望这样的前奏有续集，她尽可能快活地说道：“恐怕我没有希望继续下去。”能够再次来到这里。

‘Never?’ said Lord Warburton.
“从来没有？”沃伯顿勋爵说。

‘I won’t say ‘never’; I should feel very melodramatic.’
“我不会说‘永远’；我应该觉得很戏剧化。

‘May I come and see you then some day next week?’
“那么我可以下周某一天来看你吗？”

‘Most assuredly. What is there to prevent it?’
” “毫无疑问。有什么办法可以阻止它呢？

‘Nothing tangible. But with you I never feel safe. I’ve a sort of sense that you’re always summing people up.’
‘没有任何有形的东西。但和你在一起我从来没有安全感。我有一种感觉，你总是在总结别人。”

‘You don’t of necessity lose by that.’
“你不一定会因此而失败。”

‘It’s very kind of you to say so; but, even if I gain, stern justice is not what I most love. Is Mrs. Touchett going to take you abroad?’
“你这么说真是太好了；但是，即使我得到了，严厉的正义也不是我最爱的。塔切特夫人要带你出国吗？

‘I hope so.’
'但愿如此。'

‘Is England not good enough for you?’
“英格兰对你来说还不够好吗？”

‘That’s a very Machiavellian speech; it doesn’t deserve an answer. I want to see as many countries as I can.’
“这是一次非常马基雅维利式的演讲；它不值得回答。我想参观尽可能多的国家。

‘Then you’ll go on judging, I suppose.’
“那么我想你会继续评判。”

‘Enjoying, I hope, too.’
“我也希望能享受其中。”

‘Yes, that’s what you enjoy most; I can’t make out what you’re up to,’ said Lord Warburton. ‘You strike me as having mysterious purposes—vast designs.’
“是的，这就是你最喜欢的；” “我不明白你在做什么。”沃伯顿勋爵说道。 “我觉得你有着神秘的目的——宏伟的设计。”

‘You’re so good as to have a theory about me which I don’t at all fill out. Is there anything mysterious in a purpose entertained and executed every year, in the most public manner, by fifty thousand of my fellow-countrymen—the purpose of improving one’s mind by foreign travel?’
“你太厉害了，竟然有一个关于我的理论，但我根本没有填写。每年，我有五万名同胞以最公开的方式提出并执行一个目的——通过出国旅行来提高一个人的思想，这有什么神秘的吗？

‘You can’t improve your mind, Miss Archer,’ her companion declared. ‘It’s already a most formidable instrument. It looks down on us all; it despises us.’
“你无法改善你的思想，阿切尔小姐，”她的同伴宣称。 ‘它已经是最强大的仪器了。它瞧不起我们所有人；它鄙视我们。

‘Despises you? You’re making fun of me,’ said Isabel seriously.
‘瞧不起你？你在取笑我。”伊莎贝尔严肃地说。

‘Well, you think us ‘quaint’—that’s the same thing. I won’t be thought ‘quaint,’ to begin with; I’m not so in the least. I protest.’
“好吧，你认为我们‘古怪’——那是一回事。首先，我不会被认为“古怪”；我一点也不这样。我抗议。

‘That protest is one of the quaintest things I’ve ever heard,’ Isabel answered with a smile.
“那次抗议是我听过的最奇怪的事情之一，”伊莎贝尔微笑着回答。

Lord Warburton was briefly silent. ‘You judge only from the outsideyou don’t care,’ he said presently. ‘You only care to amuse yourself.’ The note she had heard in his voice a moment before reappeared, and mixed with it now was an audible strain of bitterness—a bitterness so abrupt and inconsequent that the girl was afraid she had hurt him. She had often heard that the English are a highly eccentric people, and she had even read in some ingenious author that they are at bottom the most romantic of races. Was Lord Warburton suddenly turning romantic—was he going to make her a scene, in his own house, only the third time they had met? She was reassured quickly enough by her sense of his great good manners, which was not impaired by the fact that he had already touched the furthest limit of good taste in expressing his admiration of a young lady who had confided in his hospitality. She was right in trusting to his good manners, for he presently went on, laughing a little and without a trace of the accent that had discomposed her: ‘I don’t mean of course that you amuse yourself with trifles. You select great materials; the foibles, the afflictions of human nature, the peculiarities of nations!’
沃伯顿勋爵短暂地沉默了。 “你只从外表来判断——你不在乎，”他很快说道。 “你只关心自娱自乐。”她刚才在他声音中听到的音调又出现了，现在与它混合的是一种听得见的苦涩——这种苦涩如此突然和无关紧要，以至于女孩担心她伤害了他。她经常听说英国人是一个非常古怪的民族，她甚至在一些聪明的作家那里读到，他们本质上是最浪漫的种族。沃伯顿勋爵是不是突然变得浪漫了——他会在他们第三次见面时就在他自己的家里让她大吵大闹吗？她很快就对他彬彬有礼的感觉感到放心，这并没有因为他在表达对一位向他倾诉热情好客的年轻女士的钦佩时已经触及高雅品味的事实而受到影响。她对他的良好举止的信任是正确的，因为他立即继续说下去，微微笑着，没有一丝让她不安的口音：“我当然不是说你用琐事取乐。您选择优质的材料；人性的弱点、苦难、民族的特殊性！”

‘As regards that,’ said Isabel, ‘I should find in my own nation entertainment for a lifetime. But we’ve a long drive, and my aunt will soon wish to start.’ She turned back toward the others and Lord Warburton walked beside her in silence. But before they reached the others, ‘I shall come and see you next week,’ he said.
“至于这一点，”伊莎贝尔说，“我应该在自己的国家找到终生的娱乐。”但我们的车程很长，我姨妈很快就要出发了。”她转身面向其他人，沃伯顿勋爵默默地走在她身边。但在他们到达其他人之前，“我下周会来看你们，”他说。

She had received an appreciable shock, but as it died away she felt that she couldn’t pretend to herself that it was altogether a painful one. Nevertheless she made answer to his declaration, coldly enough, ‘Just as you please.’ And her coldness was not the calculation of her effect—a game she played in a much smaller degree than would have seemed probable to many critics. It came from a certain fear.
她受到了明显的震惊，但随着震惊逐渐消失，她觉得自己无法假装这完全是一件痛苦的事情。尽管如此，她还是冷冷地回答了他的声明，“随你便。”她的冷漠并不是对她的影响的计算——她玩的游戏程度比许多评论家认为的要小得多。它来自于某种恐惧。

Chapter 10
第10章

The day after her visit to Lockleigh she received a note from her friend Miss Stackpole—a note of which the envelope, exhibiting in conjunction the postmark of Liverpool and the neat calligraphy of the quick-fingered Henrietta, caused her some liveliness of emotion. ‘Here I am, my lovely friend,’ Miss Stackpole wrote; ‘I managed to get off at last. I decided only the night before I left New York—the Interviewer having come round to my figure. I put a few things into a bag, like a veteran journalist, and came down to the steamer in a street-car. Where are you and where can we meet? I suppose you’re visiting at some castle or other and have already acquired the correct accent. Perhaps even you have married a lord; I almost hope you have, for I want some introductions to the first people and shall count on you for a few. The Interviewer wants some light on the nobility. My first impressions (of the people at large) are not rose-coloured; but I wish to talk them over with you, and you know that, whatever I am, at least I’m not superficial. I’ve also something very particular to tell you. Do appoint a meeting as quickly as you can; come to London (I should like so much to visit the sights with you) or else let me come to you, wherever you are. I will do so with pleasure; for you know everything interests me and I wish to see as much as possible of the inner life.’
访问洛克利的第二天，她收到了朋友斯塔克波尔小姐的一张便条——信封上盖着利物浦的邮戳，还有手巧的亨利埃塔工整的书法，这让她激动不已。 “我在这里，我可爱的朋友，”斯塔克波尔小姐写道； ‘我终于成功下车了。我是在离开纽约的前一天晚上做出决定的——采访者已经了解了我的情况。我像一位资深记者一样，把一些东西装进包里，然后乘坐有轨电车来到了轮船上。你在哪里，我们可以在哪里见面？我想你正在参观某个城堡或其他地方并且已经掌握了正确的口音。或许你也已经嫁给了一位领主；我几乎希望你已经这样做了，因为我想向第一批人做一些介绍，并且希望你能介绍一些。采访者想要了解一些关于贵族的情况。我（对大多数人）的第一印象并不乐观；但我想和你谈谈这些，你知道，不管我是什么，至少我不肤浅。我还有一些非常特别的事情要告诉你。请尽快安排一次会议；来伦敦（我非常想和你一起参观景点）或者让我来找你，无论你在哪里。我很乐意这样做；因为你知道一切都让我感兴趣，我希望尽可能多地看到内心生活。

Isabel judged best not to show this letter to her uncle; but she acquainted him with its purport, and, as she expected, he begged her instantly to assure Miss Stackpole, in his name, that he should be delighted to receive her at Gardencourt. ‘Though she’s a literary lady,’ he said, ‘I suppose that, being an American, she won’t show me up, as that other one did. She has seen others like me.’
伊莎贝尔认为最好不要把这封信给她叔叔看。但她让他知道了它的要旨，正如她所料，他请求她立即以他的名义向斯塔克波尔小姐保证，他会很高兴在花园庭院接待她。 “虽然她是一位文学女士，”他说，“但我想，作为一个美国人，她不会像另一个人那样出现在我面前。”她见过像我这样的人。

‘She has seen no other so delightful!’ Isabel answered; but she was not altogether at ease about Henrietta’s reproductive instincts, which belonged to that side of her friend’s character which she regarded with least complacency. She wrote to Miss Stackpole, however, that she would be very welcome under Mr. Touchett’s roof; and this alert young woman lost no time in announcing her prompt approach. She had gone up to London, and it was from that centre that she took the train for the station nearest to Gardencourt, where Isabel and Ralph were in waiting to receive her.
“她从未见过如此可爱的人！”伊莎贝尔回答道。但她对亨丽埃塔的生育本能并不完全放心，这属于她朋友性格中她最不自满的一面。然而，她写信给斯塔克波尔小姐说，在图切特先生的屋檐下，她会受到非常欢迎。这位机警的年轻女子立即宣布她即将接近。她去了伦敦，从伦敦市中心乘火车前往离加登考特最近的车站，伊莎贝尔和拉尔夫正在那里等着接她。

‘Shall I love her or shall I hate her?’ Ralph asked while they moved along the platform.
“我应该爱她还是应该恨她？”当他们沿着站台移动时，拉尔夫问道。

‘Whichever you do will matter very little to her,’ said Isabel. ‘She doesn’t care a straw what men think of her.’
“无论你做什么对她来说都无关紧要，”伊莎贝尔说。 “她根本不在乎男人怎么看她。”

‘As a man I’m bound to dislike her then. She must be a kind of monster. Is she very ugly?’
“作为一个男人，我一定会不喜欢她。她一定是一种怪物。她很丑吗？

‘No, she’s decidedly pretty.’
“不，她确实很漂亮。”

‘A female interviewer—a reporter in petticoats? I’m very curious to see her,’ Ralph conceded.
“一个女采访者——穿衬裙的记者？我很好奇想见见她，”拉尔夫承认道。

‘It’s very easy to laugh at her but it is not easy to be as brave as she.’
“嘲笑她很容易，但像她一样勇敢并不容易。”

‘I should think not; crimes of violence and attacks on the person require more or less pluck. Do you suppose she’ll interview me?’
“我想不会；”暴力犯罪和人身攻击或多或少需要勇气。你认为她会采访我吗？

‘Never in the world. She’ll not think you of enough importance.’
‘从来没有在世界上。她不会认为你足够重要。

‘You’ll see,’ said Ralph. ‘She’ll send a description of us all, including Bunchie, to her newspaper.’
“你会看到的，”拉尔夫说。 “她会把我们所有人的描述，包括邦奇，发到她的报纸上。”

‘I shall ask her not to,’ Isabel answered.
“我会要求她不要这样做，”伊莎贝尔回答道。

‘You think she’s capable of it then?’
“那你觉得她有能力吗？”

‘Perfectly.’
'完美。'

‘And yet you’ve made her your bosom-friend?’
“但你却把她当作你的知己了？”

‘I’ve not made her my bosom-friend; but I like her in spite of her faults.’
“我没有把她当作我的知己；但尽管她有缺点，我还是喜欢她。”

‘Ah well,’ said Ralph, ‘I’m afraid I shall dislike her in spite of her merits.’
“啊，好吧，”拉尔夫说，“尽管她有很多优点，但我恐怕还是会不喜欢她。”

‘You’ll probably fall in love with her at the end of three days.’
“三天后你可能会爱上她。”

‘And have my love-letters published in the Interviewer? Never!’ cried the young man.
“我的情书发表在《采访者》上了吗？”从来没有！”年轻人喊道。

The train presently arrived, and Miss Stackpole, promptly descending, proved, as Isabel had promised, quite delicately, even though rather provincially, fair. She was a neat, plump person, of medium stature, with a round face, a small mouth, a delicate complexion, a bunch of light brown ringlets at the back of her head and a peculiarly open, surprised-looking eye. The most striking point in her appearance was the remarkable fixedness of this organ, which rested without impudence or defiance, but as if in conscientious exercise of a natural right, upon every object it happened to encounter. It rested in this manner upon Ralph himself, a little arrested by Miss Stackpole’s gracious and comfortable aspect, which hinted that it wouldn’t be so easy as he had assumed to disapprove of her. She rustled, she shimmered, in fresh, dove-coloured draperies, and Ralph saw at a glance that she was as crisp and new and comprehensive as a first issue before the folding. From top to toe she had probably no misprint. She spoke in a clear, high voice—a voice not rich but loud; yet after she had taken her place with her companions in Mr. Touchett’s carriage she struck him as not all in the large type, the type of horrid ‘headings,’ that he had expected. She answered the enquiries made of her by Isabel, however, and in which the young man ventured to join, with copious lucidity; and later, in the library at Gardencourt, when she had made the acquaintance of Mr. Touchett (his wife not having thought it necessary to appear) did more to give the measure of her confidence in her powers.
火车很快就到了，斯塔克波尔小姐很快就下来了，正如伊莎贝尔所承诺的那样，她表现得相当微妙，尽管有些粗俗，但还是公平的。她是一个整洁、丰满的人，中等身材，圆脸，小嘴，肤色娇嫩，脑后有一缕浅棕色的卷发，一双眼睛奇特地睁着，显得惊讶。她的外表中最引人注目的一点是这个器官的非凡的固定性，它没有厚颜无耻或蔑视，而是仿佛在认真地行使自然权利，在它碰巧遇到的每一个物体上。拉尔夫本人就是这样，他被斯塔克波尔小姐亲切而舒适的外表所吸引，这暗示着他不会像他想象的那样容易反对她。她沙沙作响，闪闪发光，穿着新鲜的鸽子色窗帘，拉尔夫一眼就看出她像合页前的第一期一样清爽、新颖、全面。她从头到脚可能没有印刷错误。她说话的声音清亮、高亢——声音虽不厚重，但响亮。然而，当她和她的同伴一起坐上图切特先生的马车后，她给他的印象是，她并不像他所期望的那样，是那种大字体、那种可怕的“标题”。然而，她回答了伊莎贝尔向她提出的询问，年轻人也大胆地加入其中，头脑清醒。后来，在花园考特的图书馆里，当她结识了图切特先生（他的妻子认为没有必要出现）时，她做了更多的事情来衡量她对自己能力的信心。

‘Well, I should like to know whether you consider yourselves American or English,’ she broke out. ‘If once I knew I could talk to you accordingly.’
“好吧，我想知道你们认为自己是美国人还是英国人，”她突然说道。 “如果我知道我可以相应地和你谈谈就好了。”

‘Talk to us anyhow and we shall be thankful,’ Ralph liberally answered.
“无论如何，请与我们交谈，我们将感激不尽。”拉尔夫慷慨地回答道。

She fixed her eyes on him, and there was something in their character that reminded him of large polished buttons—buttons that might have fixed the elastic loops of some tense receptacle: he seemed to see the reflection of surrounding objects on the pupil. The expression of a button is not usually deemed human, but there was something in Miss Stackpole’s gaze that made him, as a very modest man, feel vaguely embarrassed—less inviolate, more dishonoured, than he liked. This sensation, it must be added, after he had spent a day or two in her company, sensibly diminished, though it never wholly lapsed. ‘I don’t suppose that you’re going to undertake to persuade me that you’re an American,’ she said.
她盯着他，他们的性格中有些东西让他想起了抛光的大纽扣——这些纽扣可能固定了某个紧张容器的弹性环：他似乎在瞳孔上看到了周围物体的倒影。纽扣的表情通常不被认为是人类的，但斯塔克波尔小姐的目光中有某种东西让他，作为一个非常谦虚的人，感到隐约的尴尬——比他喜欢的更不那么不受侵犯，更不光彩。必须补充的是，在他和她在一起待了一两天后，这种感觉明显减弱了，尽管它从未完全消失。 “我不认为你会说服我你是美国人，”她说。

‘To please you I’ll be an Englishman, I’ll be a Turk!’
“为了取悦你，我将成为一名英国人，我将成为一名土耳其人！”

‘Well, if you can change about that way you’re very welcome,’ Miss Stackpole returned.
“好吧，如果你能改变这种方式，我们非常欢迎，”斯塔克波尔小姐回答道。

‘I’m sure you understand everything and that differences of nationality are no barrier to you,’ Ralph went on.
“我相信你明白一切，国籍的差异对你来说不是障碍，”拉尔夫继续说道。

Miss Stackpole gazed at him still. ‘Do you mean the foreign languages?’
斯塔克波尔小姐仍然盯着他。 “你指的是外语吗？”

‘The languages are nothing. I mean the spirit—the genius.’
‘语言什么都不是。我指的是精神——天才。

‘I’m not sure that I understand you,’ said the correspondent of the Interviewer; ‘but I expect I shall before I leave.’
“我不确定我是否理解你的意思，”采访者的记者说道。 “但我希望在离开之前我会这么做。”

‘He’s what’s called a cosmopolite,’ Isabel suggested.
“他是所谓的世界主义者，”伊莎贝尔建议道。

‘That means he’s a little of everything and not much of any. I must say I think patriotism is like charity—it begins at home.’
‘这意味着他什么都有一点，但什么都不多。我必须说，我认为爱国主义就像慈善事业一样——它始于家庭。

‘Ah, but where does home begin, Miss Stackpole?’ Ralph enquired.
“啊，但是斯塔克波尔小姐，家从哪里开始呢？”拉尔夫问道。

‘I don’t know where it begins, but I know where it ends. It ended a long time before I got here.’
“我不知道它从哪里开始，但我知道它在哪里结束。在我到达这里之前，它已经结束了很长时间。

‘Don’t you like it over here?’ asked Mr. Touchett with his aged, innocent voice.
“你不喜欢这里吗？”图切特先生用苍老而天真的声音问道。

‘Well, sir, I haven’t quite made up my mind what ground I shall take. I feel a good deal cramped. I felt it on the journey from Liverpool to London.’
“好吧，先生，我还没有完全决定要采取什么立场。我感觉很局促。我在从利物浦到伦敦的旅途中感受到了这一点。

‘Perhaps you were in a crowded carriage,’ Ralph suggested.
“也许你在一辆拥挤的车厢里，”拉尔夫建议道。

‘Yes, but it was crowded with friends—a party of Americans whose acquaintance I had made upon the steamer; a lovely group from Little Rock, Arkansas. In spite of that I felt cramped—I felt something pressing upon me; I couldn’t tell what it was. I felt at the very commencement as if I were not going to accord with the atmosphere. But I suppose I shall make my own atmosphere. That’s the true way—then you can breathe. Your surroundings seem very attractive.’
“是的，但是里面挤满了朋友——一群美国人，我是在轮船上认识的；”来自阿肯色州小石城的一群可爱的人。尽管如此，我还是感觉很局促——我感觉有什么东西压在我身上；我感到很压抑。我不知道那是什么。我一开始就觉得自己与气氛格格不入。但我想我应该营造自己的氛围。这才是真正的方法——然后你就可以呼吸了。你周围的环境看起来很有吸引力。”

‘Ah, we too are a lovely group!’ said Ralph. ‘Wait a little and you’ll see.
“啊，我们也是一群可爱的人！”拉尔夫说。 ‘稍等一下，你就会看到。

Miss Stackpole showed every disposition to wait and evidently was prepared to make a considerable stay at Gardencourt. She occupied herself in the mornings with literary labour; but in spite of this Isabel spent many hours with her friend, who, once her daily task performed, deprecated, in fact defied, isolation. Isabel speedily found occasion to desire her to desist from celebrating the charms of their common sojourn in print, having discovered, on the second morning of Miss Stackpole’s visit, that she was engaged on a letter to the Interviewer, of which the title, in her exquisitely neat and legible hand (exactly that of the copybooks which our heroine remembered at school) was ‘Americans and Tudors—Glimpses of Gardencourt.’ Miss Stackpole, with the best conscience in the world, offered to read her letter to Isabel, who immediately put in her protest.
斯塔克波尔小姐表现出一切等待的态度，显然准备在花园考特度过相当长的一段时间。她早上忙于文学工作。但尽管如此，伊莎贝尔还是和她的朋友度过了很多时间，她的朋友一旦完成了她的日常任务，就不赞成甚至蔑视孤立。伊莎贝尔很快找到了机会，希望她不要在印刷品上庆祝他们共同逗留的魅力，因为在斯塔克波尔小姐来访的第二天早上，她发现她正在写一封给采访者的信，这封信的标题是她写的。精美工整、清晰易读的字迹（正是我们女主人公在学校记忆中的习字本的字迹）是《美国人和都铎王朝——花园庭院的一瞥》。提出她的抗议。

‘I don’t think you ought to do that. I don’t think you ought to describe the place.’
‘我认为你不应该这样做。我认为你不应该描述这个地方。

Henrietta gazed at her as usual. ‘Why, it’s just what the people want, and it’s a lovely place.’
亨丽埃塔像往常一样凝视着她。 “为什么，这正是人们想要的，而且这是一个可爱的地方。”

‘It’s too lovely to be put in the newspapers, and it’s not what my uncle wants.’
“这太可爱了，不适合登在报纸上，而且这也不是我叔叔想要的。”

‘Don’t you believe that!’ cried Henrietta. ‘They’re always delighted afterwards.’
“你不相信吗！”亨丽埃塔喊道。 “事后他们总是很高兴。”

‘My uncle won’t be delighted—nor my cousin either. They’ll consider it a breach of hospitality.’
“我的叔叔不会高兴——我的表弟也不会。他们会认为这是不礼貌的行为。

Miss Stackpole showed no sense of confusion; she simply wiped her pen, very neatly, upon an elegant little implement which she kept for the purpose, and put away her manuscript. ‘Of course if you don’t approve I won’t do it; but I sacrifice a beautiful subject.’
斯塔克波尔小姐没有表现出任何困惑。她只是用一个专门为此目的而保留的优雅小工具，非常干净地擦了擦笔，然后收起了手稿。当然，如果你不同意我就不这么做；但我牺牲了一个美丽的主题。”

‘There are plenty of other subjects, there are subjects all round you. We’ll take some drives; I’ll show you some charming scenery.’
“还有很多其他的主题，你周围都有很多主题。我们会开车去；我带你去看一些迷人的风景。”

‘Scenery’s not my department; I always need a human interest. You know I’m deeply human, Isabel; I always was,’ Miss Stackpole rejoined. ‘I was going to bring in your cousin—the alienated American. There’s a great demand just now for the alienated American, and your cousin’s a beautiful specimen. I should have handled him severely.’
“风景不是我的专长；我总是需要人类的兴趣。你知道我是一个非常人性化的人，伊莎贝尔；我一直都是，”斯塔克波尔小姐回答道。 “我本来打算把你的表弟——那个被疏远的美国人带进来。”现在对疏远的美国人的需求很大，而你的表弟就是一个美丽的样本。我应该严厉对待他。

‘He would have died of it!’ Isabel exclaimed. ‘Not of the severity, but of the publicity.’
“他会因此而死的！”伊莎贝尔惊呼道。 “不是因为严重性，而是因为公众的关注度。”

‘Well, I should have liked to kill him a little. And I should have delighted to do your uncle, who seems to me a much nobler type—the American faithful still. He’s a grand old man; I don’t see how he can object to my paying him honour.’
“好吧，我真想杀了他。我应该很高兴做你的叔叔，在我看来，他是一个更高尚的人——仍然是美国的忠实信徒。他是一位伟大的老人；我不明白他怎么能反对我向他致敬。

Isabel looked at her companion in much wonderment; it struck her as strange that a nature in which she found so much to esteem should break down so in spots. ‘My poor Henrietta,’ she said, ‘you’ve no sense of privacy.’
伊莎贝尔惊讶地看着她的同伴。她感到很奇怪，她如此推崇的本性竟然在某些地方崩溃了。 “我可怜的亨利埃塔，”她说，“你没有隐私意识。”

Henrietta coloured deeply, and for a moment her brilliant eyes were suffused, while Isabel found her more than ever inconsequent. ‘You do me great injustice,’ said Miss Stackpole with dignity. ‘I’ve never written a word about myself!’
亨丽埃塔脸色深沉，一时之间，她那双明亮的眼睛充满了光芒，而伊莎贝尔却发现她比以往任何时候都显得无关紧要。 “你对我太不公平了，”斯塔克波尔小姐尊严地说。 “我从来没有写过一个关于我自己的字！”

‘I’m very sure of that; but it seems to me one should be modest for others also!’
“我对此非常确定；但在我看来，一个人也应该对其他人保持谦虚！”

‘Ah, that’s very good!’ cried Henrietta, seizing her pen again. ‘Just let me make a note of it and I’ll put it in somewhere.’ She was a thoroughly good-natured woman, and half an hour later she was in as cheerful a mood as should have been looked for in a newspaper-lady in want of matter. ‘I’ve promised to do the social side,’ she said to Isabel; ‘and how can I do it unless I get ideas? If I can’t describe this place don’t you know some place I can describe?’ Isabel promised she would bethink herself, and the next day, in conversation with her friend, she happened to mention her visit to Lord Warburton’s ancient house. ‘Ah, you must take me there—that’s just the place for me!’ Miss Stackpole cried. ‘I must get a glimpse of the nobility.’
“啊，那太好了！”亨利埃塔喊道，再次抓起了笔。 “让我记下来，我会把它放在某个地方。”她是一个心地善良的女人，半个小时后，她的心情就像报纸上看到的那样愉快——想要物质的女士。 “我已经答应做社交方面的事情，”她对伊莎贝尔说； ‘除非我有想法，否则我该怎么做呢？如果我无法描述这个地方，难道你不知道有什么地方我可以描述吗？”伊莎贝尔答应她自己会想一想，第二天，在与朋友交谈时，她碰巧提到了参观沃伯顿勋爵的古宅。 “啊，你必须带我去那里——那正是我该去的地方！”斯塔克波尔小姐喊道。 “我一定要见识一下贵族。”

‘I can’t take you,’ said Isabel; ‘but Lord Warburton’s coming here, and you’ll have a chance to see him and observe him. Only if you intend to repeat his conversation I shall certainly give him warning.’
“我不能带你去，”伊莎贝尔说。 “但是沃伯顿勋爵要来这里，你将有机会见到他并观察他。只有当你想重复他的谈话时，我才会向他发出警告。

‘Don’t do that,’ her companion pleaded; ‘I want him to be natural.’
“别这么做，”她的同伴恳求道。 “我希望他保持自然。”

‘An Englishman’s never so natural as when he’s holding his tongue,’ Isabel declared.
“英国人在闭嘴的时候是最自然的，”伊莎贝尔宣称。

It was not apparent, at the end of three days, that her cousin had, according to her prophecy, lost his heart to their visitor, though he had spent a good deal of time in her society. They strolled about the park together and sat under the trees, and in the afternoon, when it was delightful to float along the Thames, Miss Stackpole occupied a place in the boat in which hitherto Ralph had had but a single companion. Her presence proved somehow less irreducible to soft particles than Ralph had expected in the natural perturbation of his sense of the perfect solubility of that of his cousin; for the correspondent of the Interviewer prompted mirth in him, and he had long since decided that the crescendo of mirth should be the flower of his declining days. Henrietta, on her side, failed a little to justify Isabel’s declaration with regard to her indifference to masculine opinion; for poor Ralph appeared to have presented himself to her as an irritating problem, which it would be almost immoral not to work out.
三天后，根据她的预言，她的表弟并没有明显地对他们的访客失去了兴趣，尽管他在她的社交中度过了很多时间。他们一起在公园里散步，坐在树下，下午，当沿着泰晤士河漂流的时候，很愉快，斯塔克波尔小姐在船上占据了一个位置，而迄今为止，拉尔夫在船上只有一个同伴。事实证明，她的存在在某种程度上不像拉尔夫所预期的那样难以简化为柔软的颗粒，因为他对他表弟的完美溶解度的感觉自然产生了干扰；因为《采访者》的记者让他感到欢笑，他早就决定，欢笑的高潮应该成为他晚年的花朵。亨丽埃塔站在她这一边，未能证明伊莎贝尔关于她对男性观点漠不关心的声明是合理的。因为可怜的拉尔夫似乎向她提出了一个令人恼火的问题，如果不解决这个问题几乎是不道德的。

‘What does he do for a living?’ she asked of Isabel the evening of her arrival. ‘Does he go round all day with his hands in his pockets?’
“他以什么为生？”抵达当天晚上，她问伊莎贝尔。 “他整天都双手插在口袋里吗？”

‘He does nothing,’ smiled Isabel; ‘he’s a gentleman of large leisure.’
“他什么也没做，”伊莎贝尔微笑道。 “他是一位闲暇之余的绅士。”

‘Well, I call that a shame—when I have to work like a car-conductor,’ Miss Stackpole replied. ‘I should like to show him up.’
“好吧，当我不得不像售票员一样工作时，我认为这是一种耻辱，”斯塔克波尔小姐回答道。 “我想让他露面。”

‘He’s in wretched health; he’s quite unfit for work,’ Isabel urged.
“他的健康状况很糟糕； “他根本不适合工作。”伊莎贝尔催促道。

‘Pshaw! don’t you believe it. I work when I’m sick,’ cried her friend. Later, when she stepped into the boat on joining the water-party, she remarked to Ralph that she supposed he hated her and would like to drown her.
‘呸！你不相信吗？我生病的时候就工作，”她的朋友哭道。后来，当她踏上船参加水上派对时，她对拉尔夫说，她认为他恨她，想淹死她。

‘Ah no,’ said Ralph, ‘I keep my victims for a slower torture. And you’d be such an interesting one!’
“啊不，”拉尔夫说，“我保留我的受害者以供缓慢的折磨。你会是一个非常有趣的人！

‘Well, you do torture me; I may say that. But I shock all your prejudices; that’s one comfort.’
‘好吧，你确实折磨了我；我可能会这么说。但我震惊了你们所有的偏见；这是一种安慰。

‘My prejudices? I haven’t a prejudice to bless myself with. There’s intellectual poverty for you.’
‘我的偏见？我没有偏见来祝福自己。你的智力很贫困。

‘The more shame to you; I’ve some delicious ones. Of course I spoil your flirtation, or whatever it is you call it, with your cousin; but I don’t care for that, as I render her the service of drawing you out. She’ll see how thin you are.’
‘你越蒙羞；我有一些好吃的。当然，我破坏了你和你表弟的调情，或者不管你怎么称呼它；但我不在乎这些，因为我让她帮忙把你引出来。她会看到你有多瘦。

‘Ah, do draw me out!’ Ralph exclaimed. ‘So few people will take the trouble.’
“啊，把我拉出来吧！”拉尔夫喊道。 “很少有人愿意这么麻烦。”

Miss Stackpole, in this undertaking, appeared to shrink from no effort; resorting largely, whenever the opportunity offered, to the natural expedient of interrogation. On the following day the weather was bad, and in the afternoon the young man, by way of providing indoor amusement, offered to show her the pictures. Henrietta strolled through the long gallery in his society, while he pointed out its principal ornaments and mentioned the painters and subjects. Miss Stackpole looked at the pictures in perfect silence, committing herself to no opinion, and Ralph was gratified by the fact that she delivered herself of none of the little ready-made ejaculations of delight of which the visitors to Gardencourt were so frequently lavish. This young lady indeed, to do her justice, was but little addicted to the use of conventional terms; there was something earnest and inventive in her tone, which at times, in its strained deliberation, suggested a person of high culture speaking a foreign language. Ralph Touchett subsequently learned that she had at one time officiated as art-critic to a journal of the other world; but she appeared, in spite of this fact, to carry in her pocket none of the small change of admiration. Suddenly, just after he had called her attention to a charming Constable, she turned and looked at him as if he himself had been a picture.
斯塔克波尔小姐在这件事上似乎毫不畏惧。只要有机会，他们就会自然而然地采取审讯的手段。第二天，天气不好，下午，年轻人以提供室内娱乐的方式，主动提出给她看照片。亨利埃塔在他的社交场所的长廊中漫步，他指出了其中的主要装饰品，并提到了画家和主题。斯塔克波尔小姐一言不发地看着这些照片，不发表任何意见，令拉尔夫感到欣慰的是，她没有表现出任何现成的喜悦之情，而花园庭院的游客常常会如此慷慨。公平地说，这位年轻的女士确实不太热衷于使用传统术语；但她并没有沉迷于使用传统术语。她的语气中带着某种真诚和创造性，有时在紧张的深思熟虑中，让人想起一个有高雅文化的人在说外语。拉尔夫·图切特随后得知，她曾担任过一份《另一个世界》杂志的艺术评论家。但尽管如此，她的口袋里似乎并没有携带任何表示钦佩的零钱。突然，就在他让她注意一位迷人的警察之后，她转过身来看着他，仿佛他本人就是一幅画。

‘Do you always spend your time like this?’ she demanded.
“你总是这样度过你的时间吗？”她问道。

‘I seldom spend it so agreeably.’
“我很少这么愉快地花钱。”

‘Well, you know what I mean—without any regular occupation.’
“好吧，你知道我的意思——没有任何固定的职业。”

‘Ah,’ said Ralph, ‘I’m the idlest man living.’
“啊，”拉尔夫说，“我是世界上最闲的人。”

Miss Stackpole directed her gaze to the Constable again, and Ralph bespoke her attention for a small Lancret hanging near it, which represented a gentleman in a pink doublet and hose and a ruff, leaning against the pedestal of the statue of a nymph in a garden and playing the guitar to two ladies seated on the grass. ‘That’s my ideal of a regular occupation,’ he said.
斯塔克波尔小姐再次将目光转向警察，拉尔夫向她示意，注意旁边挂着一件小兰克莱特，它代表一位穿着粉红色上衣、长筒袜和领子的绅士，靠在花园里仙女雕像的基座上。并为坐在草地上的两位女士弹吉他。 “这就是我理想的常规职业，”他说。

Miss Stackpole turned to him again, and, though her eyes had rested upon the picture, he saw she had missed the subject. She was thinking of something much more serious. ‘I don’t see how you can reconcile it to your conscience.’
斯塔克波尔小姐再次转向他，虽然她的眼睛一直停留在照片上，但他发现她没有抓住主题。她正在考虑一些更严肃的事情。 “我不明白你如何才能让这件事与你的良心相协调。”

‘My dear lady, I have no conscience!’
“亲爱的女士，我没有良心！”

‘Well, I advise you to cultivate one. You’ll need it the next time you go to America.’
‘好吧，我建议你培养一个。下次你去美国时你会需要它。

‘I shall probably never go again.’
“我可能永远不会再去了。”

‘Are you ashamed to show yourself?’
“你羞于展示自己吗？”

Ralph meditated with a mild smile. ‘I suppose that if one has no conscience one has no shame.’
拉尔夫带着温和的微笑沉思着。 “我想，如果一个人没有良心，就没有羞耻感。”

‘Well, you’ve got plenty of assurance,’ Henrietta declared. ‘Do you consider it right to give up your country?’
“好吧，你有足够的保证，”亨利埃塔宣称。 “你认为放弃自己的国家是正确的吗？”

‘Ah, one doesn’t give up one’s country any more than one gives up one’s grandmother. They’re both antecedent to choice—elements of one’s composition that are not to be eliminated.’
‘啊，一个人不会放弃自己的国家，就像一个人不会放弃自己的祖母一样。它们都是选择的先决条件——一个人的构成中不可消除的元素。

‘I suppose that means that you’ve tried and been worsted. What do they think of you over here?’
“我想这意味着你已经尝试过了，但还是被打败了。”他们对你有什么看法？

‘They delight in me.’
“他们很喜欢我。”

‘That’s because you truckle to them.’
“那是因为你向他们讨好。”

‘Ah, set it down a little to my natural charm!’ Ralph sighed.
“啊，稍微发挥一下我的自然魅力吧！”拉尔夫叹了口气。

‘I don’t know anything about your natural charm. If you’ve got any charm it’s quite unnatural. It’s wholly acquired—or at least you’ve tried hard to acquire it, living over here. I don’t say you’ve succeeded. It’s a charm that I don’t appreciate, anyway. Make yourself useful in some way, and then we’ll talk about it.’
“我对你天生的魅力一无所知。如果你有任何魅力，那就很不自然。它是完全后天获得的——或者至少你住在这里，努力尝试获得它。我并不是说你已经成功了。无论如何，这是一种我不欣赏的魅力。让自己以某种方式变得有用，然后我们再讨论。

‘Well, now, tell me what I shall do,’ said Ralph.
“好吧，现在，告诉我该怎么做，”拉尔夫说。

‘Go right home, to begin with.’
“首先，直接回家吧。”

‘Yes, I see. And then?’
'好的我知道了。进而？'

‘Take right hold of something.’
“抓住某样东西。”

‘Well, now, what sort of thing?’
“那么，现在，什么样的事情呢？”

‘Anything you please, so long as you take hold. Some new idea, some big work.’
‘只要你能抓住，就可以随心所欲。一些新想法，一些大工作。

‘Is it very difficult to take hold?’ Ralph enquired.
“很难抓住吗？”拉尔夫问道。

‘Not if you put your heart into it.’
“只要你全心投入就不会。”

‘Ah, my heart,’ said Ralph. ‘If it depends upon my heart-!’
“啊，我的心，”拉尔夫说。 “如果这取决于我的心的话——！”

‘Haven’t you got a heart?’
“你没有心吗？”

‘I had one a few days ago, but I’ve lost it since.’
“几天前我有一个，但后来就丢了。”

‘You’re not serious,’ Miss Stackpole remarked; ‘that’s what’s the matter with you.’ But for all this, in a day or two, she again permitted him to fix her attention and on the later occasion assigned a different cause to her mysterious perversity.
“你不是认真的，”斯塔克波尔小姐说道。 “这就是你的问题所在。”尽管如此，一两天后，她再次允许他集中注意力，并在后来的场合为她神秘的反常行为找到了不同的原因。

‘I know what’s the matter with you, Mr. Touchett,’ she said. ‘You think you’re too good to get married.’
“我知道你怎么了，图切特先生，”她说。 “你认为自己太好了，不适合结婚。”

‘I thought so till I knew you, Miss Stackpole,’ Ralph answered; ‘and then I suddenly changed my mind.’
“斯塔克波尔小姐，在我认识你之前我就这么认为。”拉尔夫回答道。 “然后我突然改变了主意。”

‘Oh pshaw!’ Henrietta groaned.
“哦，噗！”亨丽埃塔呻吟道。

‘Then it seemed to me,’ said Ralph, ‘that I was not good enough.’
“然后我觉得，”拉尔夫说，“我还不够好。”

‘It would improve you. Besides, it’s your duty.’
‘这会让你进步。此外，这是你的职责。

‘Ah,’ cried the young man, ‘one has so many duties! Is that a duty too?’
“啊，”年轻人喊道，“一个人有这么多责任！”这也是一种义务吗？

‘Of course it is—did you never know that before? It’s every one’s duty to get married.’
“当然是——你以前不知道吗？结婚是每个人的责任。”

Ralph meditated a moment; he was disappointed. There was something in Miss Stackpole he had begun to like; it seemed to him that if she was not a charming woman she was at least a very good ‘sort.’ She was wanting in distinction, but, as Isabel had said, she was brave: she went into cages, she flourished lashes, like a spangled lion-tamer. He had not supposed her to be capable of vulgar arts, but these last words struck him as a false note. When a marriageable young woman urges matrimony on an unencumbered young man the most obvious explanation of her conduct is not the altruistic impulse.
拉尔夫沉思了一会儿。他很失望。他开始喜欢斯塔克波尔小姐的某些特质：在他看来，即使她不是一个迷人的女人，她至少也是一个非常好的“类型”。她想要出名，但是，正如伊莎贝尔所说，她很勇敢：她走进笼子，她睫毛茂盛，就像一个闪闪发光的驯狮人他本以为她不会有庸俗艺术的本事，但最后这句话却让他觉得是错误的。当一个适婚的年轻女子催促一个无负担的年轻男子结婚时，她的行为最明显的解释不是利他冲动。

‘Ah, well now, there’s a good deal to be said about that,’ Ralph rejoined.
“啊，好吧，关于这一点有很多话要说，”拉尔夫回答道。

‘There may be, but that’s the principal thing. I must say I think it looks very exclusive, going round all alone, as if you thought no woman was good enough for you. Do you think you’re better than any one else in the world? In America it’s usual for people to marry.’
“也许有，但这是最重要的。我必须说，我认为它看起来非常独特，独自一人四处走动，就好像你认为没有女人配得上你一样。你认为你比世界上任何人都优秀吗？在美国，人们结婚是很平常的事。

‘If it’s my duty,’ Ralph asked, ‘is it not, by analogy, yours as well?’
“如果这是我的职责，”拉尔夫问道，“以此类推，这不也是你的职责吗？”

Miss Stackpole’s ocular surfaces unwinkingly caught the sun. ‘Have you the fond hope of finding a flaw in my reasoning? Of course I’ve as good a right to marry as any one else.’
斯塔克波尔小姐的眼表一眨不眨地捕捉着阳光。 “你是否满怀希望找到我的推理中的缺陷？当然，我和其他人一样有结婚的权利。”

‘Well then,’ said Ralph, ‘I won’t say it vexes me to see you single. It delights me rather.’
“那么，”拉尔夫说，“我不会说看到你单身让我烦恼。这让我很高兴。

‘You’re not serious yet. You never will be.’
‘你还不是认真的。你永远不会。

‘Shall you not believe me to be so on the day I tell you I desire to give up the practice of going around alone?’
“当我告诉你我想放弃独自出行的习惯时，你难道不相信我吗？”

Miss Stackpole looked at him for a moment in a manner which seemed to announce a reply that might technically be called encouraging. But to his great surprise this expression suddenly resolved itself into an appearance of alarm and even of resentment. ‘No, not even then,’ she answered dryly. After which she walked away.
斯塔克波尔小姐看了他一会儿，她的神情似乎在宣布他的回答，从技术上讲，这可以称为鼓励。但令他大吃一惊的是，他的表情突然变成了惊慌甚至怨恨。 “不，即使那样，”她干巴巴地回答。之后她就走开了。

‘I’ve not conceived a passion for your friend,’ Ralph said that evening to Isabel, ‘though we talked some time this morning about it.’
“我对你的朋友并没有产生热情，”拉尔夫那天晚上对伊莎贝尔说，“尽管我们今天早上谈过这个问题。”

‘And you said something she didn’t like,’ the girl replied.
“你说了一些她不喜欢的话，”女孩回答道。

Ralph stared. ‘Has she complained of me?’
拉尔夫凝视着。 “她抱怨过我吗？”

‘She told me she thinks there’s something very low in the tone of Europeans towards women.’
“她告诉我，她认为欧洲人对女性的态度非常低落。”

‘Does she call me a European?’
“她称我为欧洲人吗？”

‘One of the worst. She told me you had said to her something that an American never would have said. But she didn’t repeat it.’
‘最糟糕的之一。她告诉我你对她说了一些美国人永远不会说的话。但她没有重复。

Ralph treated himself to a luxury of laughter. ‘She’s an extraordinary combination. Did she think I was making love to her?’
拉尔夫尽情地大笑。 “她是一个非凡的组合。她以为我在和她做爱吗？

‘No; I believe even Americans do that. But she apparently thought you mistook the intention of something she had said, and put an unkind construction on it.’
'不;我相信连美国人也会这样做。但她显然认为你误解了她所说的话的意图，并对其进行了不友善的解释。

‘I thought she was proposing marriage to me and I accepted her. Was that unkind?’
“我以为她是在向我求婚，我就接受了她。这很不友善吗？

Isabel smiled. ‘It was unkind to me. I don’t want you to marry.’
伊莎贝尔笑了。 ‘这对我很不友善。我不想让你结婚。

‘My dear cousin, what’s one to do among you all?’ Ralph demanded. ‘Miss Stackpole tells me it’s my bounden duty, and that it’s hers, in general, to see I do mine!’
“我亲爱的表弟，你们大家该做什么？”拉尔夫问道。 “斯塔克波尔小姐告诉我，这是我义不容辞的责任，而且总的来说，她也有责任看到我做我的事情！”

‘She has a great sense of duty,’ said Isabel gravely. ‘She has indeed, and it’s the motive of everything she says. That’s what I like her for. She thinks it’s unworthy of you to keep so many things to yourself. That’s what she wanted to express. If you thought she was trying to—to attract you, you were very wrong.’
“她有很强的责任感，”伊莎贝尔严肃地说。 “她确实这么做了，这就是她所说的一切的动机。这就是我喜欢她的原因。她认为你不值得把这么多事情留给自己。这就是她想要表达的。如果你认为她试图吸引你，那你就大错特错了。

‘It’s true it was an odd way, but I did think she was trying to attract me. Forgive my depravity.’
“确实，这是一种奇怪的方式，但我确实认为她是想吸引我。原谅我的堕落。

‘You’re very conceited. She had no interested views, and never supposed you would think she had.’
‘你真是太自负了。她没有感兴趣的观点，而且从来没有想过你会认为她有。

‘One must be very modest then to talk with such women,’ Ralph said humbly. ‘But it’s a very strange type. She’s too personal—considering that she expects other people not to be. She walks in without knocking at the door.’
“与这样的女人交谈，一个人必须非常谦虚，”拉尔夫谦虚地说。 ‘但这是一种非常奇怪的类型。她太个人化了——考虑到她不希望其他人如此。她没有敲门就走了进来。”

‘Yes,’ Isabel admitted, ‘she doesn’t sufficiently recognize the existence of knockers; and indeed I’m not sure that she doesn’t think them rather a pretentious ornament. She thinks one’s door should stand ajar. But I persist in liking her.’
“是的，”伊莎贝尔承认，“她没有充分认识到门环的存在；事实上，我不确定她是否认为它们是一种自命不凡的装饰品。她认为门应该半开。但我坚持喜欢她。

‘I persist in thinking her too familiar,’ Ralph rejoined, naturally somewhat uncomfortable under the sense of having been doubly deceived in Miss Stackpole.
“我一直认为她太熟悉了。”拉尔夫回答道，他自然有些不自在，因为他觉得自己在斯塔克波尔小姐身上受到了双重欺骗。

‘Well,’ said Isabel, smiling, ‘I’m afraid it’s because she’s rather vulgar that I like her.’
“嗯，”伊莎贝尔微笑着说，“恐怕我喜欢她是因为她很粗俗。”

‘She would be flattered by your reason!’
“她会对你的理由感到受宠若惊！”

‘If I should tell her I wouldn’t express it in that way. I should say it’s because there’s something of the ‘people’ in her.’
“如果我告诉她，我不会那样表达。我应该说这是因为她身上有一些‘人’的东西。”

‘What do you know about the people? and what does she, for that matter?’
‘你对人民了解多少？那么她又是做什么的呢？

‘She knows a great deal, and I know enough to feel that she’s a kind of emanation of the great democracy—of the continent, the country, the nation. I don’t say that she sums it all up, that would be too much to ask of her. But she suggests it; she vividly figures it.’
“她知道很多事情，我知道的足够多，足以让我感觉到她是伟大民主的体现——这片大陆、这个国家、这个民族。我并不是说她总结了一切，这对她来说要求太高了。但她建议这么做；她生动地描绘了这一点。

‘You like her then for patriotic reasons. I’m afraid it is on those very grounds I object to her.’
“那么你喜欢她是出于爱国原因。”恐怕正是因为这些原因我才反对她。

‘Ah,’ said Isabel with a kind of joyous sigh, ‘I like so many things! If a thing strikes me with a certain intensity I accept it. I don’t want to swagger, but I suppose I’m rather versatile. I like people to be totally different from Henrietta—in the style of Lord Warburton’s sisters for instance. So long as I look at the Misses Molyneux they seem to me to answer a kind of ideal. Then Henrietta presents herself, and I’m straightway convinced by her; not so much in respect to herself as in respect to what masses behind her.’
“啊，”伊莎贝尔带着一种喜悦的叹息说道，“我喜欢很多东西！如果某件事以一定的强度打动我，我就会接受它。我不想招摇，但我想我相当多才多艺。我喜欢人们与亨利埃塔完全不同——例如沃伯顿勋爵的姐妹们的风格。只要我看着莫利纽克斯小姐，我就觉得她们符合某种理想。然后亨利埃塔出现了，我立刻就被她说服了。与其说是对她自己的尊重，不如说是对她背后的群众的尊重。

‘Ah, you mean the back view of her,’ Ralph suggested.
“啊，你是说她的背影，”拉尔夫建议道。

‘What she says is true,’ his cousin answered; ‘you’ll never be serious. I like the great country stretching away beyond the rivers and across the prairies, blooming and smiling, and spreading till it stops at the green Pacific! A strong, sweet, fresh odour seems to rise from it, and Henrietta—pardon my simile—has something of that odour in her garments.’
“她说的是真的，”他的表弟回答道。 ‘你永远不会是认真的。我喜欢这个伟大的国家，一望无际的河流，越过草原，绽放着花朵，微笑着，蔓延到绿色的太平洋！一种强烈、甜美、新鲜的气味似乎从中升起，而亨利埃塔——请原谅我的比喻——她的衣服里就有这种气味。

Isabel blushed a little as she concluded this speech, and the blush, together with the momentary ardour she had thrown into it, was so becoming to her that Ralph stood smiling at her for a moment after she had ceased speaking. ‘I’m not sure the Pacific’s so green as that,’ he said; ‘but you’re a young woman of imagination. Henrietta, however, does smell of the Future—it almost knocks one down!’
伊莎贝尔在结束这次演讲时脸红了一点，这种脸红，加上她一时的热情，对她来说是如此合适，以至于在她停止说话后，拉尔夫站着对她微笑了一会儿。 “我不确定太平洋是否有那么绿，”他说； “但你是一位富有想象力的年轻女子。然而，亨利埃塔确实闻到了未来的味道——它几乎把人击倒！

Chapter 11
第11章

He took a resolve after this not to misinterpret her words even when Miss Stackpole appeared to strike the personal note most strongly. He bethought himself that persons, in her view, were simple and homogeneous organisms, and that he, for his own part, was too perverted a representative of the nature of man to have a right to deal with her in strict reciprocity. He carried out his resolve with a great deal of tact, and the young lady found in renewed contact with him no obstacle to the exercise of her genius for unshrinking enquiry, the general application of her confidence. Her situation at Gardencourt therefore, appreciated as we have seen her to be by Isabel and full of appreciation herself of that free play of intelligence which, to her sense, rendered Isabel’s character a sister-spirit, and of the easy venerableness of Mr. Touchett, whose noble tone, as she said, met with her full approval—her situation at Gardencourt would have been perfectly comfortable had she not conceived an irresistible mistrust of the little lady for whom she had at first supposed herself obliged to ‘allow’ as mistress of the house. She presently discovered, in truth, that this obligation was of the lightest and that Mrs. Touchett cared very little how Miss Stackpole behaved. Mrs. Touchett had defined her to Isabel as both an adventuress and a bore—adventuresses usually giving one more of a thrill; she had expressed some surprise at her niece’s having selected such a friend, yet had immediately added that she knew Isabel’s friends were her own affair and that she had never undertaken to like them all or to restrict the girl to those she liked.
此后他下定决心，即使斯塔克波尔小姐似乎最强烈地表达了个人的意思，他也不会误解她的话。他认为，在她看来，人是简单而同质的有机体，而他自己则太变态了，是人性的代表，无权以严格​​互惠的方式与她打交道。他非常机智地实现了他的决心，而这位年轻的女士发现，在与他重新接触时，她没有任何障碍来发挥她不屈不挠的探究天赋和对她的信心的普遍运用。因此，她在花园考特的处境，正如我们所看到的那样，受到伊莎贝尔的赞赏，她本人也非常欣赏她那种自由发挥的才智，在她看来，这种自由发挥使伊莎贝尔的性格成为姐妹精神，而且也欣赏图切特先生的轻松可敬。 ，正如她所说，她高贵的语气得到了她的完全认可——如果她没有对这位小女士产生不可抗拒的不信任，她在花园考特的处境本来会非常舒适，她起初认为自己有义务“允许”她作为情妇在这所房子里面。事实上，她很快就发现，这种义务是最轻的，图切特夫人很少关心斯塔克波尔小姐的行为举止。塔切特夫人对伊莎贝尔的定义是，她既是一位冒险家，又是一个令人厌烦的人——冒险家通常给人更多的刺激；而冒险家通常会给人带来更多的刺激。她对侄女选择这样一个朋友表示有些惊讶，但立即补充说，她知道伊莎贝尔的朋友是她自己的事，她从未承诺喜欢他们所有人，也从未承诺将女孩限制在她喜欢的人之内。

‘If you could see none but the people I like, my dear, you’d have a very small society,’ Mrs. Touchett frankly admitted; ‘and I don’t think I like any man or woman well enough to recommend them to you. When it comes to recommending it’s a serious affair. I don’t like Miss Stackpole—everything about her displeases me; she talks so much too loud and looks at one as if one wanted to look at her—which one doesn’t. I’m sure she has lived all her life in a boarding-house, and I detest the manners and the liberties of such places. If you ask me if I prefer my own manners, which you doubtless think very bad, I’ll tell you that I prefer them immensely. Miss Stackpole knows I detest boarding-house civilization, and she detests me for detesting it, because she thinks it the highest in the world. She’d like Gardencourt a great deal better if it were a boarding-house. For me, I find it almost too much of one! We shall never get on together therefore, and there’s no use trying.’
“亲爱的，如果你只能见到我喜欢的人，那你的社交圈就会很小。”图切特夫人坦白地承认。 “而且我认为我没有足够喜欢任何男人或女人来向你推荐他们。当谈到推荐时，这是一件严肃的事情。我不喜欢斯塔克波尔小姐——她的一切都让我不高兴。她说话太大声，看着一个人，就好像一个人想看她一样——而另一个人则不想看她。我确信她一生都住在寄宿公寓里，我讨厌这些地方的礼仪和自由。如果你问我是否喜欢我自己的举止，你无疑会认为这很糟糕，我会告诉你我非常喜欢它们。斯塔克波尔小姐知道我讨厌寄宿制文明，她也讨厌我讨厌它，因为她认为这是世界上最高的。如果花园考特是一所寄宿公寓，她会更喜欢它。对我来说，我发现这几乎太多了！因此，我们永远不会在一起，尝试也是没有用的。

Mrs. Touchett was right in guessing that Henrietta disapproved of her, but she had not quite put her finger on the reason. A day or two after Miss Stackpole’s arrival she had made some invidious reflexions on American hotels, which excited a vein of counterargument on the part of the correspondent of the Interviewer, who in the exercise of her profession had acquainted herself, in the western world, with every form of caravansary. Henrietta expressed the opinion that American hotels were the best in the world, and Mrs. Touchett, fresh from a renewed struggle with them, recorded a conviction that they were the worst. Ralph, with his experimental geniality, suggested, by way of healing the breach, that the truth lay between the two extremes and that the establishments in question ought to be described as fair middling. This contribution to the discussion, however, Miss Stackpole rejected with scorn. Middling indeed! If they were not the best in the world they were the worst, but there was nothing middling about an American hotel.
塔切特夫人正确地猜测亨丽埃塔不喜欢她，但她还没有完全弄清楚原因。斯塔克波尔小姐抵达一两天后，她对美国的酒店做出了一些令人反感的反应，这激起了《采访者》记者的反驳，这位记者在履行自己的职业生涯时已经在西方世界熟悉了，与各种形式的商队。亨利埃塔表达了美国酒店是世界上最好的酒店的观点，而刚刚与美国酒店进行了新一轮斗争的图切特夫人则坚信美国酒店是世界上最差的。拉尔夫以其实验性的和蔼可亲，通过弥合裂痕的方式提出，事实位于两个极端之间，所讨论的机构应该被描述为中等水平。然而，斯塔克波尔小姐轻蔑地拒绝了这一对讨论的贡献。确实中等！如果说它们不是世界上最好的，那也是最差的，但美国酒店一点也不庸俗。

‘We judge from different points of view, evidently,’ said Mrs. Touchett. ‘I like to be treated as an individual; you like to be treated as a ‘party.’’
“显然，我们从不同的角度进行判断，”图切特夫人说。 “我喜欢被当作一个个体来对待；你喜欢被视为‘一方’。”

‘I don’t know what you mean,’ Henrietta replied. ‘I like to be treated as an American lady.’
“我不明白你的意思，”亨利埃塔回答道。 “我喜欢被当作美国女士对待。”

‘Poor American ladies!’ cried Mrs. Touchett with a laugh. ‘They’re the slaves of slaves.’
“可怜的美国女士们！”图切特夫人笑着喊道。 “他们是奴隶的奴隶。”

‘They’re the companions of freemen,’ Henrietta retorted.
“他们是自由民的同伴，”亨丽埃塔反驳道。

‘They’re the companions of their servants—the Irish chambermaid and the negro waiter. They share their work.’
“他们是仆人的同伴——爱尔兰女服务员和黑人服务员。他们分享他们的工作。

‘Do you call the domestics in an American household ‘slaves’?’ Miss Stackpole enquired. ‘If that’s the way you desire to treat them, no wonder you don’t like America.’
“你把美国家庭的佣人称为‘奴隶’吗？”斯塔克波尔小姐问道。 “如果这就是你希望对待他们的方式，难怪你不喜欢美国。”

‘If you’ve not good servants you’re miserable,’ Mrs. Touchett serenely said. ‘They’re very bad in America, but I’ve five perfect ones in Florence.’
“如果你没有好仆人，你就会很痛苦，”图切特夫人平静地说。 “它们在美国非常糟糕，但我在佛罗伦萨有五个完美的。”

‘I don’t see what you want with five,’ Henrietta couldn’t help observing. ‘I don’t think I should like to see five persons surrounding me in that menial position.’
“我不明白你想要五个什么，”亨利埃塔忍不住观察道。 “我认为我不希望看到五个人以这种卑微的姿势围着我。”

‘I like them in that position better than in some others,’ proclaimed Mrs. Touchett with much meaning.
“我比其他人更喜欢他们的位置，”图切特夫人意味深长地说。

‘Should you like me better if I were your butler, dear?’ her husband asked.
“亲爱的，如果我是你的管家，你会更喜欢我吗？”她的丈夫问道。

‘I don’t think I should: you wouldn’t at all have the tenue.’
“我认为我不应该：你根本没有任期。”

‘The companions of freemen—I like that, Miss Stackpole,’ said Ralph. ‘It’s a beautiful description.’
“自由民的同伴——我喜欢这一点，斯塔克波尔小姐，”拉尔夫说。 “这是一个美丽的描述。”

‘When I said freemen I didn’t mean you, sir!’
“当我说自由民时，我并不是指你，先生！”

And this was the only reward that Ralph got for his compliment. Miss Stackpole was baffled; she evidently thought there was something treasonable in Mrs. Touchett’s appreciation of a class which she privately judged to be a mysterious survival of feudalism. It was perhaps because her mind was oppressed with this image that she suffered some days to elapse before she took occasion to say to Isabel: ‘My dear friend, I wonder if you’re growing faithless.’
这是拉尔夫因恭维而获得的唯一奖励。斯塔克波尔小姐很困惑。她显然认为，图切特夫人对这个阶级的欣赏带有某种叛逆的成分，她私下认为这个阶级是封建主义的神秘残余。也许是因为她的心灵被这个形象所压抑，所以过了好几天，她才找机会对伊莎贝尔说：“我亲爱的朋友，我想知道你是否变得不忠了。”

‘Faithless? Faithless to you, Henrietta?’
‘不信？对你不忠吗，亨丽埃塔？

‘No, that would be a great pain; but it’s not that.’
“不，那会很痛苦；但事实并非如此。

‘Faithless to my country then?’
“那么对我的国家不忠吗？”

‘Ah, that I hope will never be. When I wrote to you from Liverpool I said I had something particular to tell you. You’ve never asked me what it is. Is it because you’ve suspected?’
‘啊，我希望永远不会。当我从利物浦写信给你时，我说我有一些特别的事情要告诉你。你从来没有问过我那是什么。是因为你怀疑吗？

‘Suspected what? As a rule I don’t think I suspect,’ said Isabel. ‘I remember now that phrase in your letter, but I confess I had forgotten it. What have you to tell me?’
‘怀疑什么？一般来说，我认为我不会怀疑，”伊莎贝尔说。 “我现在记得你信中的那句话，但我承认我已经忘记了。你有什么要告诉我的？

Henrietta looked disappointed, and her steady gaze betrayed it. ‘You don’t ask that right—as if you thought it important. You’re changed—you’re thinking of other things.’
亨丽埃塔看起来很失望，她坚定的目光暴露了这一点。 “你问得不对——就好像你认为这很重要一样。”你变了——你在想别的事情了。”

‘Tell me what you mean, and I’ll think of that.’
“告诉我你的意思，我会考虑的。”

‘Will you really think of it? That’s what I wish to be sure of.’
‘你真的会考虑吗？这就是我希望确定的。

‘I’ve not much control of my thoughts, but I’ll do my best,’ said Isabel. Henrietta gazed at her, in silence, for a period which tried Isabel’s patience, so that our heroine added at last: ‘Do you mean that you’re going to be married?’
“我不太能控制自己的想法，但我会尽力而为，”伊莎贝尔说。亨利埃塔默默地凝视着她一段时间，这考验了伊莎贝尔的耐心，所以我们的女主人公最后补充道：“你的意思是你要结婚了？”

‘Not till I’ve seen Europe!’ said Miss Stackpole. ‘What are you laughing at?’ she went on. ‘What I mean is that Mr. Goodwood came out in the steamer with me.’
“除非我见过欧洲！”斯塔克波尔小姐说。 “你笑什么？”她继续说道。 “我的意思是古德伍德先生和我一起坐轮船出来了。”

‘Ah!’ Isabel responded.
“啊！”伊莎贝尔回应道。

‘You say that right. I had a good deal of talk with him; he has come after you.’
‘你说得对。我和他聊了很多。他来追你了。

‘Did he tell you so?’
“他是这么告​​诉你的吗？”

‘No, he told me nothing; that’s how I knew it,’ said Henrietta cleverly. ‘He said very little about you, but I spoke of you a good deal.’
“不，他什么也没告诉我；我就是这么知道的。”亨利埃塔机灵地说。 “他很少谈论你，但我却经常谈论你。”

Isabel waited. At the mention of Mr. Goodwood’s name she had turned a little pale. ‘I’m very sorry you did that,’ she observed at last.
伊莎贝尔等待着。一提到古德伍德先生的名字，她的脸色就变得有些苍白。 “我很抱歉你这么做了，”她最后说道。

‘It was a pleasure to me, and I liked the way he listened. I could have talked a long time to such a listener; he was so quiet, so intense; he drank it all in.’
“这对我来说很高兴，我喜欢他倾听的方式。我本可以和这样的听众交谈很长时间；他是那么的安静，那么的热情；他把一切都喝进去了。

‘What did you say about me?’ Isabel asked.
“你怎么说我？”伊莎贝尔问道。

‘I said you were on the whole the finest creature I know.’
“我说过，总的来说，你是我认识的最优秀的人。”

‘I’m very sorry for that. He thinks too well of me already; he oughtn’t to be encouraged.’
'对此我感到非常抱歉。他已经把我看得太好了；他不应该受到鼓励。

‘He’s dying for a little encouragement. I see his face now, and his earnest absorbed look while I talked. I never saw an ugly man look so handsome.’
“他非常渴望得到一点鼓励。我现在看到了他的脸，以及我说话时他全神贯注的表情。我从来没有见过一个丑陋的男人看起来如此英俊。”

‘He’s very simple-minded,’ said Isabel. ‘And he’s not so ugly.’
“他头脑很简单，”伊莎贝尔说。 “而且他也没那么难看。”

‘There’s nothing so simplifying as a grand passion.’
“没有什么比伟大的激情更简单的了。”

‘It’s not a grand passion; I’m very sure it’s not that.’
“这不是一种伟大的激情；而是一种伟大的激情。”我非常确定不是那样的。

‘You don’t say that as if you were sure.’
“你说这话的时候并不像是你确信的样子。”

Isabel gave rather a cold smile. ‘I shall say it better to Mr. Goodwood himself.’
伊莎贝尔露出冷冷的笑容。 “我应该对古德伍德先生本人说得更好。”

‘He’ll soon give you a chance,’ said Henrietta. Isabel offered no answer to this assertion, which her companion made with an air of great confidence. ‘He’ll find you changed,’ the latter pursued. ‘You’ve been affected by your new surroundings.’
“他很快就会给你机会，”亨利埃塔说。伊莎贝尔没有对她的同伴的这一断言做出任何回答，她的同伴充满信心地做出了这个断言。 “他会发现你变了，”后者继续说道。 “你受到了新环境的影响。”

‘Very likely. I’m affected by everything.’
'很可能。我受到一切的影响。

‘By everything but Mr. Goodwood!’ Miss Stackpole exclaimed with a slightly harsh hilarity.
“除了古德伍德先生之外！”斯塔克波尔小姐带着略显刺耳的欢笑喊道。

Isabel failed even to smile back and in a moment she said: ‘Did he ask you to speak to me?’
伊莎贝尔甚至没有回以微笑，过了一会儿她说道：“他有让你跟我说话吗？”

‘Not in so many words. But his eyes asked it—and his handshake, when he bade me good-bye.’
‘不是用那么多话来说的。但他的眼神在询问——还有他向我告别时的握手。”

‘Thank you for doing so.’ And Isabel turned away.
“谢谢你这样做。”伊莎贝尔转身走开。

‘Yes, you’re changed; you’ve got new ideas over here,’ her friend continued.
‘是的，你变了； “你在这里有新想法，”她的朋友继续说道。

‘I hope so,’ said Isabel; ‘one should get as many new ideas as possible.’
“我希望如此，”伊莎贝尔说。 “人们应该获得尽可能多的新想法。”

‘Yes; but they shouldn’t interfere with the old ones when the old ones have been the right ones.’
'是的;但当旧的人是正确的人时，他们不应该干涉旧的人。”

Isabel turned about again. ‘If you mean that I had any idea with regard to Mr. Goodwood-!’ But she faltered before her friend’s implacable glitter.
伊莎贝尔再次转过身来。 “如果你的意思是我对古德伍德先生有任何想法的话——！”但她在她朋友无情的光芒面前犹豫了。

‘My dear child, you certainly encouraged him.’
“我亲爱的孩子，你确实鼓励了他。”

Isabel made for the moment as if to deny this charge; instead of which, however, she presently answered: ‘It’s very true. I did encourage him.’ And then she asked if her companion had learned from Mr. Goodwood what he intended to do. It was a concession to her curiosity, for she disliked discussing the subject and found Henrietta wanting in delicacy.
伊莎贝尔暂时做出否认这一指控的样子。然而，她很快就回答道：“确实如此。”我确实鼓励了他。”然后她问她的同伴是否从古德伍德先生那里得知了他打算做什么。这是对她好奇心的让步，因为她不喜欢讨论这个话题，而且发现亨丽埃塔不够精致。

‘I asked him, and he said he meant to do nothing,’ Miss Stackpole answered. ‘But I don’t believe that; he’s not a man to do nothing. He is a man of high, bold action. Whatever happens to him he’ll always do something, and whatever he does will always be right.’
“我问过他，他说他什么也不做，”斯塔克波尔小姐回答道。 “但我不相信这一点；他不是一个什么都不做的人。他是一个性格高尚、行动大胆的人。无论他发生什么事，他总会做点什么，而且无论他做什么，都永远是对的。”

‘I quite believe that.’ Henrietta might be wanting in delicacy, but it touched the girl, all the same, to hear this declaration.
“我完全相信这一点。”亨丽埃塔可能有些不体贴，但听到这句话还是让女孩感动。

‘Ah, you do care for him!’ her visitor rang out.
“啊，你确实关心他！”她的访客大声说道。

‘Whatever he does will always be right,’ Isabel repeated. ‘When a man’s of that infallible mould what does it matter to him what one feels?’
“无论他做什么都永远是正确的，”伊莎贝尔重复道。 “当一个人具有绝对正确的模范时，别人的感受对他来说又有什么关系呢？”

‘It may not matter to him, but it matters to one’s self.’
“这对他来说可能不重要，但对一个人来说很重要。”

‘Ah, what it matters to me—that’s not what we’re discussing,’ said Isabel with a cold smile.
“啊，对我来说重要的事情——那不是我们讨论的事，”伊莎贝尔冷冷地笑着说道。

This time her companion was grave. ‘Well, I don’t care; you have changed. You’re not the girl you were a few short weeks ago, and Mr. Goodwood will see it. I expect him here any day.’
这次她的同伴表情严肃。 “好吧，我不在乎；我不在乎。”你已经改变。你已经不再是几周前的那个女孩了，古德伍德先生会看到这一点。我希望他随时都会来。

‘I hope he’ll hate me then,’ said Isabel.
“我希望他那时会恨我，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘I believe you hope it about as much as I believe him capable of it.’
“我相信你希望如此，就像我相信他有能力做到这一点一样。”

To this observation our heroine made no return; she was absorbed in the alarm given her by Henrietta’s intimation that Caspar Goodwood would present himself at Gardencourt. She pretended to herself, however, that she thought the event impossible, and, later, she communicated her disbelief to her friend. For the next forty-eight hours, nevertheless, she stood prepared to hear the young man’s name announced. The feeling pressed upon her; it made the air sultry, as if there were to be a change of weather; and the weather, socially speaking, had been so agreeable during Isabel’s stay at Gardencourt that any change would be for the worse. Her suspense indeed was dissipated the second day. She had walked into the park in company with the sociable Bunchie, and after strolling about for some time, in a manner at once listless and restless, had seated herself on a garden bench, within sight of the house, beneath a spreading beech, where, in a white dress ornamented with black ribbons, she formed among the flickering shadows a graceful and harmonious image. She entertained herself for some moments with talking to the little terrier, as to whom the proposal of an ownership divided with her cousin had been applied as impartially as possible—impartially as Bunchie’s own somewhat fickle and inconstant sympathies would allow. But she was notified for the first time, on this occasion, of the finite character of Bunchie’s intellect; hitherto she had been mainly struck with its extent. It seemed to her at last that she would do well to take a book; formerly, when heavy-hearted, she had been able, with the help of some well-chosen volume, to transfer the seat of consciousness to the organ of pure reason. Of late, it was not to be denied, literature had seemed a fading light, and even after she had reminded herself that her uncle’s library was provided with a complete set of those authors which no gentleman’s collection should be without, she sat motionless and empty-handed, her eyes bent on the cool green turf of the lawn. Her meditations were presently interrupted by the arrival of a servant who handed her a letter. The letter bore the London postmark and was addressed in a hand she knew—that came into her vision, already so held by him, with the vividness of the writer’s voice or his face. This document proved short and may be given entire.
我们的女主人公没有回应这一观察。亨丽埃塔暗示卡斯帕·古德伍德将出现在花园庭院，这让她全神贯注。然而，她假装自己认为这件事不可能发生，后来她向朋友表达了她的怀疑。然而，在接下来的四十八小时里，她准备好听到这个年轻人的名字被宣布。这种感觉压在她身上；空气变得闷热起来，仿佛天气要变了。从社交角度来说，伊莎贝尔在花园考特逗留期间的天气非常宜人，任何变化都会变得更糟。第二天，她的悬念果然消散了。她和善于交际的邦奇一起走进公园，闲逛了一段时间后，以一种既无精打采又焦躁不安的方式，坐在花园的长凳上，在房子的视野范围内，在一棵蔓延的山毛榉下，一袭白色长裙，缀着黑色丝带，在摇曳的光影中，形成了一个优雅和谐的形象。她和那只小猎犬聊了一会儿，自娱自乐了一会儿，因为与她表弟分割所有权的提议已经尽可能公正地适用于它——在邦奇自己有点善变和反复无常的同情心所允许的范围内公正地实施。但这一次，她第一次得知邦奇的智力是有限的。到目前为止，她主要是对其范围感到震惊。她终于觉得最好还是去读一本书吧。以前，当她心情沉重时，借助一些精心挑选的书籍，她能够将意识的位置转移到纯粹理性的器官上。 不可否认，近来，文学似乎已经黯淡了，甚至在她提醒自己叔叔的图书馆里备有绅士藏书不应缺少的全套作家作品后，她还是一动不动地坐着，空荡荡的。她双手举着，眼睛盯着草坪上凉爽的绿色草皮。她的沉思很快被仆人的到来打断，他递给她一封信。这封信上盖有伦敦邮戳，收信人是她熟悉的那只手——她的视野中已经有他这样握着的那只手，写信人的声音和脸庞都栩栩如生。事实证明，这份文件很短，但可以提供完整的文件。

MY DEAR MISS ARCHER—I don’t know whether you will have heard of my coming to England, but even if you have not it will scarcely be a surprise to you. You will remember that when you gave me my dismissal at Albany, three months ago, I did not accept it. I protested against it. You in fact appeared to accept my protest and to admit that I had the right on my side. I had come to see you with the hope that you would let me bring you over to my conviction; my reasons for entertaining this hope had been of the best. But you disappointed it; I found you changed, and you were able to give me no reason for the change. You admitted that you were unreasonable, and it was the only concession you would make; but it was a very cheap one, because that’s not your character. No, you are not, and you never will be, arbitrary or capricious. Therefore it is that I believe you will let me see you again. You told me that I’m not disagreeable to you, and I believe it; for I don’t see why that should be. I shall always think of you; I shall never think of any one else. I came to England simply because you are here; I couldn’t stay at home after you had gone: I hated the country because you were not in it. If I like this country at present it is only because it holds you. I have been to England before, but have never enjoyed it much. May I not come and see you for half an hour? This at present is the dearest wish of yours faithfully
我亲爱的阿切尔小姐——我不知道你是否听说过我来英国的消息，但即使你没有听说过，你也不会感到惊讶。你会记得，三个月前，当你在奥尔巴尼解雇我时，我并没有接受。我对此提出抗议。事实上，你似乎接受了我的抗议，并承认我有权利站在我这边。我来见你是希望你能让我相信我的信念。我抱有这个希望的理由是最好的。但你却令它失望了；我发现你变了，你却无法给我任何改变的理由。你承认自己无理取闹，这是你唯一能做出的让步；但这是一个非常便宜的东西，因为那不是你的性格。不，你现在不是，也永远不会是专断或任性的。所以我相信你会让我再次见到你。你告诉我，我对你并不反感，我也相信；因为我不明白为什么会这样。我会永远想着你；我永远不会想到任何其他人。我来到英国只是因为你在这里；你走后我不能呆在家里：我讨厌这个国家，因为你不在其中。如果我现在喜欢这个国家，那只是因为它拥有你。我以前去过英国，但从来没有很喜欢它。我可以半小时来看你吗？这是您目前最诚挚的愿望

CASPAR GOODWOOD
卡斯帕·古德伍德

Isabel read this missive with such deep attention that she had not perceived an approaching tread on the soft grass. Looking up, however, as she mechanically folded it she saw Lord Warburton standing before her.
伊莎贝尔全神贯注地读着这封信，以至于她没有察觉到柔软的草地上有脚步声靠近。然而，当她机械地折叠它时，她抬起头，看到沃伯顿勋爵站在她面前。

Chapter 12
第12章

She put the letter into her pocket and offered her visitor a smile of welcome, exhibiting no trace of discomposure and half surprised at her coolness.
她把信放进口袋，微笑着向来访者表示欢迎，没有表现出任何不安，对自己的冷静感到有些惊讶。

‘They told me you were out here,’ said Lord Warburton; ‘and as there was no one in the drawing-room and it’s really you that I wish to see, I came out with no more ado.’
“他们告诉我你在这儿，”沃伯顿勋爵说。 “客厅里没人，而我真正想见的是你，所以我就毫不犹豫地走了出来。”

Isabel had got up; she felt a wish, for the moment, that he should not sit down beside her. ‘I was just going indoors.’
伊莎贝尔已经站了起来。她暂时希望他不要坐在她身边。 “我正要进屋。”

‘Please don’t do that; it’s much jollier here; I’ve ridden over from Lockleigh; it’s a lovely day.’ His smile was peculiarly friendly and pleasing, and his whole person seemed to emit that radiance of good-feeling and good fare which had formed the charm of the girl’s first impression of him. It surrounded him like a zone of fine June weather.
‘请不要这样做；这里要快乐得多；我是从洛克利骑马过来的； “今天真是美好的一天。”他的笑容显得格外亲切和悦目，整个人似乎都散发着那种好感、好气的光芒，这就是女孩对他第一印象的魅力所在。它像六月的晴朗天气一样包围着他。

‘We’ll walk about a little then,’ said Isabel, who could not divest herself of the sense of an intention on the part of her visitor and who wished both to elude the intention and to satisfy her curiosity about it. It had flashed upon her vision once before, and it had given her on that occasion, as we know, a certain alarm. This alarm was composed of several elements, not all of which were disagreeable; she had indeed spent some days in analyzing them and had succeeded in separating the pleasant part of the idea of Lord Warburton’s ‘making up’ to her from the painful. It may appear to some readers that the young lady was both precipitate and unduly fastidious; but the latter of these facts, if the charge be true, may serve to exonerate her from the discredit of the former. She was not eager to convince herself that a territorial magnate, as she had heard Lord Warburton called, was smitten with her charms; the fact of a declaration from such a source carrying with it really more questions than it would answer. She had received a strong impression of his being a ‘personage,’ and she had occupied herself in examining the image so conveyed. At the risk of adding to the evidence of her self-sufficiency it must be said that there had been moments when this possibility of admiration by a personage represented to her an aggression almost to the degree of an affront, quite to the degree of an inconvenience. She had never yet known a personage; there had been no personages, in this sense, in her life; there were probably none such at all in her native land. When she had thought of individual eminence she had thought of it on the basis of character and wit—of what one might like in a gentleman’s mind and in his talk. She herself was a character—she couldn’t help being aware of that; and hitherto her visions of a completed consciousness had connected themselves largely with moral images—things as to which the question would be whether they pleased her sublime soul. Lord Warburton loomed up before her, largely and brightly, as a collection of attributes and powers which were not to be measured by this simple rule, but which demanded a different sort of appreciationan appreciation that the girl, with her habit of judging quickly and freely, felt she lacked patience to bestow. He appeared to demand of her something that no one else, as it were, had presumed to do. What she felt was that a territorial, a political, a social magnate had conceived the design of drawing her into the system in which he rather invidiously lived and moved. A certain instinct, not imperious, but persuasive, told her to resist—murmured to her that virtually she had a system and an orbit of her own. It told her other things besidesthings which both contradicted and confirmed each other; that a girl might do much worse than trust herself to such a man and that it would be very interesting to see something of his system from his own point of view; that on the other hand, however, there was evidently a great deal of it which she should regard only as a complication of every hour, and that even in the whole there was something stiff and stupid which would make it a burden. Furthermore there was a young man lately come from America who had no system at all, but who had a character of which it was useless for her to try to persuade herself that the impression on her mind had been light. The letter she carried in her pocket all sufficiently reminded her of the contrary. Smile not, however, I venture to repeat, at this simple young woman from Albany who debated whether she should accept an English peer before he had offered himself and who was disposed to believe that on the whole she could do better. She was a person of great good faith, and if there was a great deal of folly in her wisdom those who judge her severely may have the satisfaction of finding that, later, she became consistently wise only at the cost of an amount of folly which will constitute almost a direct appeal to charity.
“那我们就出去走走，”伊莎贝尔说道，她无法摆脱这位访客的意图，她希望既能避开这个意图，又能满足她对此的好奇心。它以前曾在她的视野中闪过一次，据我们所知，那次它给了她一定的警觉。这个警报由几个要素组成，但并非所有要素都令人不快。她确实花了几天时间分析它们，并成功地将沃伯顿勋爵向她“和解”的想法中令人愉快的部分与痛苦的部分区分开来。在一些读者看来，这位年轻女士既鲁莽又过分挑剔。但如果指控属实，后一个事实可能会免除她因前一个事实而蒙受的耻辱。她并不急于让自己相信，正如她听到沃伯顿勋爵所说的那样，一位领土巨头被她的魅力所迷住了；她并不急于让自己相信，正如她听到的沃伯顿勋爵所说的那样，她被她的魅力所迷住了。事实上，来自这样一个消息来源的声明所带来的问题实际上比它所能回答的要多。她对他是一个“人物”有着强烈的印象，她全神贯注地审视着他所传达的形象。冒着增加她自给自足的证据的风险，必须说，在某些时候，这种受到某个人物钦佩的可能性对她来说代表着一种几乎达到侮辱程度的侵略，甚至达到了不便的程度。她还从来没有认识过任何一个人。从这个意义上来说，她的生活中没有任何人物。她的祖国可能根本没有这样的人。当她想到个人的卓越时，她想到的是基于品格和智慧——一个人可能喜欢绅士的思想和谈话。 她自己就是一个人物——她情不自禁地意识到这一点。迄今为止，她对完整意识的幻想在很大程度上与道德形象有关——问题在于它们是否令她崇高的灵魂满意。沃伯顿勋爵在她面前隐现，在很大程度上，明亮地，作为属性和力量的集合，不能用这个简单的规则来衡量，但它需要一种不同的欣赏——欣赏这个女孩，她习惯于快速而自由地判断，觉得她缺乏耐心给予。他似乎对她提出了一些其他人不敢做的事情。她的感觉是，一个领土、政治、社会巨头已经构思出一个计划，要把她拉入他生活和行动的相当令人不快的体系中。某种本能，不是专横的，而是有说服力的，告诉她要反抗——低声告诉她，实际上她有自己的系统和轨道。除了那些既相互矛盾又相互印证的事情之外，它还告诉了她其他的事情。一个女孩可能会做比把自己信任给这样一个男人更糟糕的事情，从他自己的角度来看看他的系统中的某些东西将是非常有趣的；然而，另一方面，显然有很多事情她只能视为每小时的复杂情况，而且即使在整个过程中，也有一些僵硬和愚蠢的东西会使它成为一种负担。此外，还有一个刚从美国来的年轻人，完全没有体系，但他的性格使她无法说服自己，认为自己的印象很淡薄。她口袋里的那封信足以让她想起相反的事情。 然而，我冒昧地重复一遍，不要对这个来自奥尔巴尼的简单的年轻女子微笑，她在一位英国同伴主动提出自己之前就争论过是否应该接受他，并且她倾向于相信总体上她可以做得更好。她是一个非常真诚的人，如果她的智慧中有很多愚蠢的地方，那么那些严厉评判她的人可能会满意地发现，后来她变得始终如一的明智只是以大量的愚蠢为代价的。几乎将构成对慈善事业的直接呼吁。

Lord Warburton seemed quite ready to walk, to sit or to do anything that Isabel should propose, and he gave her this assurance with his usual air of being particularly pleased to exercise a social virtue. But he was, nevertheless, not in command of his emotions, and as he strolled beside her for a moment, in silence, looking at her without letting her know it, there was something embarrassed in his glance and his misdirected laughter. Yes, assuredly—as we have touched on the point, we may return to it for a moment again—the English are the most romantic people in the world and Lord Warburton was about to give an example of it. He was about to take a step which would astonish all his friends and displease a great many of them, and which had superficially nothing to recommend it. The young lady who trod the turf beside him had come from a queer country across the sea which he knew a good deal about; her antecedents, her associations were very vague to his mind except in so far as they were generic, and in this sense they showed as distinct and unimportant. Miss Archer had neither a fortune nor the sort of beauty that justifies a man to the multitude, and he calculated that he had spent about twenty-six hours in her company. He had summed up all this—the perversity of the impulse, which had declined to avail itself of the most liberal opportunities to subside, and the judgement of mankind, as exemplified particularly in the more quickly-judging half of it: he had looked these things well in the face and then had dismissed them from his thoughts. He cared no more for them than for the rosebud in his buttonhole. It is the good fortune of a man who for the greater part of a lifetime has abstained without effort from making himself disagreeable to his friends, that when the need comes for such a course it is not discredited by irritating associations.
沃伯顿勋爵似乎已经准备好走路、坐着或做任何伊莎贝尔应该提出的事情，他以他一贯的特别高兴地表现出社交美德的神情向她保证。但他却无法控制自己的情绪，当他默默地在她身旁踱步了一会儿，不让她知道地看着她时，他的目光和他那误导人的笑声中有些尴尬。是的，当然——正如我们已经谈到这一点，我们可能会再次回到这一点——英国人是世界上最浪漫的民族，沃伯顿勋爵正要举一个例子。他即将采取的一项措施将令他所有的朋友感到惊讶，并使他们中的许多人感到不高兴，而且表面上看，这并没有什么值得推荐的。走在他身边的那位年轻女士来自大洋彼岸的一个奇怪的国家，他对此非常熟悉；她的前身、她的联想对他来说非常模糊，除非它们是通用的，从这个意义上说，它们显得独特且不重要。阿切尔小姐既没有财富，也没有那种在众人面前证明男人合理的美貌，他计算了一下，他在她的陪伴下度过了大约二十六个小时。他总结了这一切——冲动的反常，拒绝利用最自由的机会来平息，以及人类的判断，尤其是在判断速度更快的一半中所体现的：他看起来这些事情表面上看得很清楚，然后就把它们从他的脑海中排除掉了。他对它们的关心就像对纽扣孔里的玫瑰花蕾一样。 一个人在一生中的大部分时间里，都毫不费力地避免让自己与朋友产生不愉快的关系，当需要采取这样的做法时，它不会因为令人恼火的联想而失去信誉，这是一个人的幸运。

‘I hope you had a pleasant ride,’ said Isabel, who observed her companion’s hesitancy.
“我希望你旅途愉快，”伊莎贝尔说道，她注意到她同伴的犹豫。

‘It would have been pleasant if for nothing else than that it brought me here.’
“如果没有别的原因，它把我带到了这里，那就太好了。”

‘Are you so fond of Gardencourt?’ the girl asked, more and more sure that he meant to make some appeal to her; wishing not to challenge him if he hesitated, and yet to keep all the quietness of her reason if he proceeded. It suddenly came upon her that her situation was one which a few weeks ago she would have deemed deeply romantic: the park of an old English country-house, with the foreground embellished by a ‘great’ (as she supposed) nobleman in the act of making love to a young lady who, on careful inspection, should be found to present remarkable analogies with herself. But if she was now the heroine of the situation she succeeded scarcely the less in looking at it from the outside.
“你这么喜欢花园考特吗？”女孩问道，越来越确信他是想向她发出一些吸引力。如果他犹豫，她不希望挑战他；但如果他继续，她又要保持理性的沉默。她突然意识到，她的处境是几周前她还认为非常浪漫的：一栋古老的英国乡间别墅的公园，前景是一位“伟大的”（正如她所认为的）贵族在表演与一位年轻女士做爱，仔细观察，应该会发现她与她自己有着惊人的相似之处。但即使她现在是这件事的女主角，她也同样成功地从局外人的角度看待这件事。

‘I care nothing for Gardencourt,’ said her companion. ‘I care only for you.
“我对花园考特一点也不关心，”她的同伴说。 ‘我只关心你。

‘You’ve known me too short a time to have a right to say that, and I can’t believe you’re serious.’
“你认识我的时间太短，没有资格这么说，而且我不敢相信你是认真的。”

These words of Isabel’s were not perfectly sincere, for she had no doubt whatever that he himself was. They were simply a tribute to the fact, of which she was perfectly aware, that those he had just uttered would have excited surprise on the part of a vulgar world. And, moreover, if anything beside the sense she had already acquired that Lord Warburton was not a loose thinker had been needed to convince her, the tone in which he replied would quite have served the purpose.
伊莎贝尔的话并不完全真诚，因为她毫不怀疑他本人。它们只是对一个事实的致敬，她完全清楚这一点，他刚才所说的话会让庸俗世界感到惊讶。而且，此外，如果除了她已经意识到沃伯顿勋爵不是一个思想松散的人之外还需要什么来说服她，那么他回答的语气就完全达到了目的。

‘One’s right in such a matter is not measured by the time, Miss Archer; it’s measured by the feeling itself. If I were to wait three months it would make no difference; I shall not be more sure of what I mean than I am to-day. Of course I’ve seen you very little, but my impression dates from the very first hour we met. I lost no time, I fell in love with you then. It was at first sight, as the novels say; I know now that’s not a fancy-phrase, and I shall think better of novels for evermore. Those two days I spent here settled it; I don’t know whether you suspected I was doing so, but I paid—mentally speaking I mean—the greatest possible attention to you. Nothing you said, nothing you did, was lost upon me. When you came to Lockleigh the other day—or rather when you went away—I was perfectly sure. Nevertheless I made up my mind to think it over and to question myself narrowly. I’ve done so; all these days I’ve done nothing else. I don’t make mistakes about such things; I’m a very judicious animal. I don’t go off easily, but when I’m touched, it’s for life. It’s for life, Miss Archer, it’s for life,’ Lord Warburton repeated in the kindest, tenderest, pleasantest voice Isabel had ever heard, and looking at her with eyes charged with the light of a passion that had sifted itself clear of the baser parts of emotion—the heat, the violence, the unreason—and that burned as steadily as a lamp in a windless place.
“在这种事情上，一个人的权利不是用时间来衡量的，阿切尔小姐；它是由感觉本身来衡量的。如果我等三个月也没什么区别；我不会比今天更确定我的意思。当然，我很少见到你，但我的印象可以追溯到我们见面的第一个小时。我不失时机地爱上了你。就像小说里说的那样，一见钟情；我现在知道这不是一个花哨的词，我将永远更好地思考小说。我在这里度过的两天就解决了；我不知道你是否怀疑我这样做，但我对你给予了——我的意思是精神上的——最大程度的关注。你所说的一切，你所做的一切，我都没有忘记。当你前几天来到洛克利时——或者更确切地说，当你离开时——我完全确定。尽管如此，我还是决定仔细考虑一下，并仔细地质疑自己。我已经这样做了；这些天我什么也没做。我不会在这些事情上犯错误；我是一只非常明智的动物。我不会轻易离开，但当我被感动时，那就是一生。这是为了生活，阿切尔小姐，为了生活。”沃伯顿勋爵用伊莎贝尔听过的最友善、最温柔、最愉快的声音重复道，他的眼睛里充满了激情的光芒，而这种激情已经从卑鄙的部分中消失了。情感——热度、暴力、非理性——就像无风地方的一盏灯一样稳定地燃烧。

By tacit consent, as he talked, they had walked more and more slowly, and at last they stopped and he took her hand. ‘Ah, Lord Warburton, how little you know me!’ Isabel said very gently. Gently too she drew her hand away.
在他说话的时候，他们默契地走得越来越慢，最后他们停了下来，他握住了她的手。 “啊，沃伯顿勋爵，你对我知之甚少！”伊莎贝尔非常温柔地说。她也轻轻地把手抽开。

‘Don’t taunt me with that, that I don’t know you better makes me unhappy enough already; it’s all my loss. But that’s what I want, and it seems to me I’m taking the best way. If you’ll be my wife, then I shall know you, and when I tell you all the good I think of you you’ll not be able to say it’s from ignorance.’
“别这样嘲笑我，我不了解你已经让我很不高兴了；这都是我的损失。但这就是我想要的，而且在我看来，我正在采取最好的方式。如果你成为我的妻子，那么我就会认识你，当我告诉你我想到你的所有好处时，你将无法说这是出于无知。

‘If you know me little I know you even less,’ said Isabel.
“如果你不了解我，我就更不了解你了，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘You mean that, unlike yourself, I may not improve on acquaintance? Ah, of course that’s very possible. But think, to speak to you as I do, how determined I must be to try and give satisfaction! You do like me rather, don’t you?’
‘你的意思是，与你不同，我的熟识可能不会提高？啊，当然这是很有可能的。但想一想，像我这样对你说话，我必须有多大的决心去尝试并让你满意！你确实更喜欢我，不是吗？

‘I like you very much, Lord Warburton,’ she answered; and at this moment she liked him immensely.
“我非常喜欢你，沃伯顿勋爵，”她回答道。此时此刻，她非常喜欢他。

‘I thank you for saying that; it shows you don’t regard me as a stranger. I really believe I’ve filled all the other relations of life very creditably, and I don’t see why I shouldn’t fill this one—in which I offer myself to you—seeing that I care so much more about it. Ask the people who know me well; I’ve friends who’ll speak for me.’
“我感谢你这么说；这表明你并不把我当作陌生人。我真的相信我已经非常值得信赖地填补了生活中的所有其他关系，而且我不明白为什么我不应该填补这个——在其中我将自己奉献给你——因为我更关心它。询问熟悉我的人；我有朋友会为我说话。

‘I don’t need the recommendation of your friends,’ said Isabel.
“我不需要你朋友的推荐，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘Ah now, that’s delightful of you. You believe in me yourself.’
‘啊，现在你真高兴。你自己也相信我。

‘Completely,’ Isabel declared. She quite glowed there, inwardly, with the pleasure of feeling she did.
“完全可以，”伊莎贝尔宣称。她内心非常高兴，因为她感觉自己做到了。

The light in her companion’s eyes turned into a smile, and he gave a long exhalation of joy. ‘If you’re mistaken, Miss Archer, let me lose all I possess!’
同伴眼中的光芒变成了笑容，喜悦地长长地呼了一口气。 “如果你错了，阿切尔小姐，就让我失去我所拥有的一切吧！”

She wondered whether he meant this for a reminder that he was rich, and, on the instant, felt sure that he didn’t. He was sinking that, as he would have said himself; and indeed he might safely leave it to the memory of any interlocutor, especially of one to whom he was offering his hand. Isabel had prayed that she might not be agitated, and her mind was tranquil enough, even while she listened and asked herself what it was best she should say, to indulge in this incidental criticism. What she should say, had she asked herself? Her foremost wish was to say something if possible not less kind than what he had said to her. His words had carried perfect conviction with them; she felt she did, all so mysteriously, matter to him. ‘I thank you more than I can say for your offer,’ she returned at last. ‘It does me great honour.’
她想知道他这样说是不是想提醒自己自己很富有，但立刻就确信自己并非如此。正如他自己所说，他正在沉没；事实上，他可以放心地把它留在任何对话者的记忆中，尤其是他正在向其伸出援助之手的人。伊莎贝尔曾祈祷自己不要激动，即使在她听着并问自己应该说什么最好的时候，她的思想也足够平静，沉迷于这种附带的批评。如果她问自己的话，她应该说什么？她最重要的愿望是如果可能的话，说一些不比他对她说的话更友善的话。他的话让他们深信不疑。她觉得她对他来说确实很重要，这一切都是那么神秘。 “对于你的提议，我感激不尽，”她最后回答道。 “这让我感到非常荣幸。”

‘Ah, don’t say that!’ he broke out. ‘I was afraid you’d say something like that. I don’t see what you’ve to do with that sort of thing. I don’t see why you should thank me—it’s I who ought to thank you for listening to me: a man you know so little coming down to you with such a thumper! Of course it’s a great question; I must tell you that I’d rather ask it than have it to answer myself. But the way you’ve listened—or at least your having listened at all—gives me some hope.’
“啊，别这么说！”他大声说道。 “我担心你会说这样的话。我不明白你与这种事情有什么关系。我不明白你为什么要感谢我——是我应该感谢你听我说话：一个你知之甚少的人竟然带着这样的重击声来找你！当然，这是一个很好的问题；我必须告诉你，我宁愿问它，也不愿让它自己回答。但你倾听的方式——或者至少你倾听的方式——给了我一些希望。

‘Don’t hope too much,’ Isabel said.
“别抱太大希望，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘Oh, Miss Archer!’ her companion murmured, smiling again, in his seriousness, as if such a warning might perhaps be taken but as the play of high spirits, the exuberance of elation.
“哦，阿切尔小姐！”她的同伴低声说道，再次微笑着，一脸严肃，仿佛这样的警告或许可以被视为兴高采烈、兴高采烈的表演。

‘Should you be greatly surprised if I were to beg you not to hope at all?’ Isabel asked.
“如果我恳求你不要抱任何希望，你会感到非常惊讶吗？”伊莎贝尔问。

‘Surprised? I don’t know what you mean by surprise. It wouldn’t be that; it would be a feeling very much worse.’
‘惊讶吗？我不知道你说的惊讶是什么意思。不会是那样的；这会是一种非常糟糕的感觉。

Isabel walked on again; she was silent for some minutes. ‘I’m very sure that, highly as I already think of you, my opinion of you, if I should know you well, would only rise. But I’m by no means sure that you wouldn’t be disappointed. And I say that not in the least out of conventional modesty; it’s perfectly sincere.’
伊莎贝尔又继续前行。她沉默了几分钟。 “我非常确定，既然我已经对你有很高的评价，如果我很了解你，我对你的看法只会上升。但我绝对不确定你不会失望。我这么说绝不是出于传统的谦虚；这是非常真诚的。”

‘I’m willing to risk it, Miss Archer,’ her companion replied.
“我愿意冒这个险，阿切尔小姐，”她的同伴回答道。

‘It’s a great question, as you say. It’s a very difficult question.’
“正如你所说，这是一个很好的问题。这是一个非常困难的问题。

‘I don’t expect you of course to answer it outright. Think it over as long as may be necessary. If I can gain by waiting I’ll gladly wait a long time. Only remember that in the end my dearest happiness depends on your answer.’
“我当然不指望你会直接回答。只要有必要就仔细考虑一下。如果我能通过等待有所收获，我会很乐意等待很长时间。请记住，最终我最亲爱的幸福取决于你的回答。

‘I should be very sorry to keep you in suspense,’ said Isabel.
“我很抱歉让你保持悬念，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘Oh, don’t mind. I’d much rather have a good answer six months hence than a bad one to-day.’
‘哦，别介意。我宁愿六个月后得到一个好的答案，也不愿今天得到一个糟糕的答案。

‘But it’s very probable that even six months hence I shouldn’t be able to give you one that you’d think good.’
“但很有可能，即使是六个月后，我也无法给你一个你认为好的东西。”

‘Why not, since you really like me?’
“为什么不呢，既然你真的喜欢我？”

‘Ah, you must never doubt that,’ said Isabel.
“啊，你绝对不能怀疑这一点，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘Well then, I don’t see what more you ask!’
“那么，我不明白你还问什么了！”

‘It’s not what I ask; it’s what I can give. I don’t think I should suit you; I really don’t think I should.’
‘这不是我所要求的；这是我能给予的。我觉得我不适合你；我真的不认为我应该这样做。

‘You needn’t worry about that. That’s my affair. You needn’t be a better royalist than the king.’
‘你不用担心这个。那是我的事。你不必是比国王更好的保皇党人。

‘It’s not only that,’ said Isabel; ‘but I’m not sure I wish to marry any one.’
“不仅如此，”伊莎贝尔说道。 “但我不确定我想嫁给谁。”

‘Very likely you don’t. I’ve no doubt a great many women begin that way,’ said his lordship, who, be it averred, did not in the least believe in the axiom he thus beguiled his anxiety by uttering. ‘But they’re frequently persuaded.’
‘很可能你不知道。毫无疑问，很多女人都是这样开始的。”勋爵说，据说，勋爵根本不相信他所说的消除焦虑的公理。 “但他们经常被说服。”

‘Ah, that’s because they want to be!’ And Isabel lightly laughed.
“啊，那是因为他们想成为这样！”伊莎贝尔轻笑道。

Her suitor’s countenance fell, and he looked at her for a while in silence. ‘I’m afraid it’s my being an Englishman that makes you hesitate,’ he said presently. ‘I know your uncle thinks you ought to marry in your own country.’
她的追求者脸色沉了下来，沉默地看了她一会儿。 “我担心我是一个英国人，这让你犹豫不决，”他很快说道。 “我知道你叔叔认为你应该在自己的国家结婚。”

Isabel listened to this assertion with some interest; it had never occurred to her that Mr. Touchett was likely to discuss her matrimonial prospects with Lord Warburton. ‘Has he told you that?’
伊莎贝尔饶有兴趣地听着这个说法。她从来没有想到图切特先生可能会与沃伯顿勋爵讨论她的婚姻前景。 “他告诉你了吗？”

‘I remember his making the remark. He spoke perhaps of Americans generally.’
“我记得他说过这句话。他或许谈论的是美国人。

‘He appears himself to have found it very pleasant to live in England.’ Isabel spoke in a manner that might have seemed a little perverse, but which expressed both her constant perception of her uncle’s outward felicity and her general disposition to elude any obligation to take a restricted view.
“他本人似乎觉得在英国生活很愉快。”伊莎贝尔说话的方式可能看起来有点反常，但这既表达了她对叔叔外表幸福的一贯看法，也表达了她逃避任何义务的普遍倾向。采取有限的观点。

It gave her companion hope, and he immediately cried with warmth: ‘Ah, my dear Miss Archer, old England’s a very good sort of country, you know! And it will be still better when we’ve furbished it up a little.’
这给了她的同伴希望，他立即温暖地哭了起来：“啊，我亲爱的阿切尔小姐，古老的英格兰是一个非常好的国家，你知道！”如果我们把它稍微装修一下，那就更好了。”

‘Oh, don’t furbish it, Lord Warburton; leave it alone. I like it this way.
“哦，别再装饰它了，沃伯顿勋爵；不要管它。我喜欢这样。

‘Well then, if you like it, I’m more and more unable to see your objection to what I propose.’
“那么，如果你喜欢的话，我越来越看不出你反对我的提议了。”

‘I’m afraid I can’t make you understand.’
“恐怕我无法让你明白。”

‘You ought at least to try. I’ve a fair intelligence. Are you afraid—afraid of the climate? We can easily live elsewhere, you know. You can pick out your climate, the whole world over.’
‘你至少应该尝试一下。我有相当的智力。你害怕——害怕气候吗？你知道，我们可以轻松地住在其他地方。你可以选择你的气候，全世界的气候。

These words were uttered with a breadth of candour that was like the embrace of strong arms—that was like the fragrance straight in her face, and by his clean, breathing lips, of she knew not what strange gardens, what charged airs. She would have given her little finger at that moment to feel strongly and simply the impulse to answer: ‘Lord Warburton, it’s impossible for me to do better in this wonderful world, I think, than commit myself, very gratefully, to your loyalty.’ But though she was lost in admiration of her opportunity she managed to move back into the deepest shade of it, even as some wild, caught creature in a vast cage. The ‘splendid’ security so offered her was not the greatest she could conceive. What she finally bethought herself of saying was something very different—something that deferred the need of really facing her crisis. ‘Don’t think me unkind if I ask you to say no more about this to-day.’
这些话是用一种宽广的坦率说出来的，就像强有力的手臂的拥抱——就像芳香直接喷在她的脸上，通过他干净、呼吸的嘴唇，她不知道有什么奇怪的花园，有什么充满活力的空气。在那一刻，她会伸出她的小手指，强烈而简单地感到回答的冲动：“沃伯顿勋爵，我想，在这个美妙的世界里，我不可能比非常感激地忠诚于您的忠诚更好。”尽管她对自己的机会感到钦佩，但她还是设法回到了最深的阴影中，就像一只被关在巨大笼子里的野生生物一样。这样提供给她的“极好的”安全感并不是她能想象到的最好的安全感。她最终想到自己所说的是非常不同的事情——推迟了真正面对危机的需要。 “如果我今天要求你不要再说这件事，请不要认为我不友善。”

‘Certainly, certainly!’ her companion cried. ‘I wouldn’t bore you for the world.’
“当然，当然！”她的同伴喊道。 “我绝对不会让你感到无聊。”

‘You’ve given me a great deal to think about, and I promise you to do it justice.’
“你给了我很多思考，我保证你会公正地对待它。”

‘That’s all I ask of you, of course—and that you’ll remember how absolutely my happiness is in your hands.’
“当然，这就是我对你的全部要求——而且你会记得我的幸福完全掌握在你的手中。”

Isabel listened with extreme respect to this admonition, but she said after a minute: ‘I must tell you that what I shall think about is some way of letting you know that what you ask is impossibleletting you know it without making you miserable.’
伊莎贝尔极其尊重地听着这个警告，但过了一会儿她说道：“我必须告诉你，我要考虑的是某种方式让你知道你所要求的东西是不可能让你知道而不让你痛苦的。”

‘There’s no way to do that, Miss Archer. I won’t say that if you refuse me you’ll kill me; I shall not die of it. But I shall do worse; I shall live to no purpose.
“那是没办法的事，阿切尔小姐。我不会说如果你拒绝我就会杀了我；我不会因此而死。但我会做得更糟；我将毫无目的地活着。

‘You’ll live to marry a better woman than I.’
“你会活着娶一个比我更好的女人。”

‘Don’t say that, please,’ said Lord Warburton very gravely. ‘That’s fair to neither of us.’
“请不要这么说，”沃伯顿勋爵非常严肃地说。 “这对我们都不公平。”

‘To marry a worse one then.’
“那就嫁给一个更糟糕的人吧。”

‘If there are better women than you I prefer the bad ones. That’s all I can say,’ he went on with the same earnestness. ‘There’s no accounting for tastes.’
“如果有比你更好的女人，我更喜欢坏女人。”我只能说这么多。”他以同样的认真态度继续说道。 “没有办法考虑品味。”

His gravity made her feel equally grave, and she showed it by again requesting him to drop the subject for the present. ‘I’ll speak to you myself—very soon. Perhaps I shall write to you.’
他的严肃让她感到同样严肃，她再次要求他暂时放弃这个话题，以此表明了这一点。 “我会亲自和你说话——很快。”也许我应该写信给你。

‘At your convenience, yes,’ he replied. ‘Whatever time you take, it must seem to me long, and I suppose I must make the best of that.’
“在你方便的时候，是的，”他回答道。 “无论你花多少时间，在我看来都一定很长，我想我必须充分利用它。”

‘I shall not keep you in suspense; I only want to collect my mind a little.’
“我不会让你保持悬念；我只想稍微集中一下思绪。

He gave a melancholy sigh and stood looking at her a moment, with his hands behind him, giving short nervous shakes to his hunting-crop. ‘Do you know I’m very much afraid of it—of that remarkable mind of yours?’
他忧郁地叹了口气，站在那里看了她一会儿，双手放在身后，紧张地摇晃着他的猎物。 “你知道我非常害怕——害怕你那非凡的头脑吗？”

Our heroine’s biographer can scarcely tell why, but the question made her start and brought a conscious blush to her cheek. She returned his look a moment, and then with a note in her voice that might almost have appealed to his compassion, ‘So am I, my lord!’ she oddly exclaimed.
我们的女主人公的传记作者几乎无法说出原因，但这个问题让她吃了一惊，并让她的脸颊自觉地红了。她看了他一眼，然后用一种几乎可以引起他同情的语气说道：“我也是，大人！”她奇怪地喊道。

His compassion was not stirred, however; all he possessed of the faculty of pity was needed at home. ‘Ah! be merciful, be merciful,’ he murmured.
然而，他的同情心并没有被激起。他所拥有的所有怜悯之心都是在家里所需要的。 '啊！仁慈一点，仁慈一点，”他低声说道。

‘I think you had better go,’ said Isabel. ‘I’ll write to you.’
“我认为你最好走，”伊莎贝尔说。 “我会写信给你。”

‘Very good; but whatever you write I’ll come and see you, you know.’ And then he stood reflecting, his eyes fixed on the observant countenance of Bunchie, who had the air of having understood all that had been said and of pretending to carry off the indiscretion by a simulated fit of curiosity as to the roots of an ancient oak. ‘There’s one thing more,’ he went on. ‘You know, if you don’t like Lockleigh—if you think it’s damp or anything of that sort—you need never go within fifty miles of it. It’s not damp, by the way; I’ve had the house thoroughly examined; it’s perfectly safe and right. But if you shouldn’t fancy it you needn’t dream of living in it. There’s no difficulty whatever about that; there are plenty of houses. I thought I’d just mention it; some people don’t like a moat, you know. Good-bye.’
'非常好;但无论你写什么，我都会来看你，你知道。”然后他站在那里沉思，眼睛盯着邦奇敏锐的表情，邦奇的神情似乎已经理解了所说的一切，并假装把一切都带走了。假装对一棵古老橡树的根部感到好奇而做出的轻率行为。 “还有一件事，”他继续说道。 “你知道，如果你不喜欢洛克利——如果你认为它潮湿或类似的东西——你就永远不需要去距离它五十英里的范围内。顺便说一句，它并不潮湿；我已经彻底检查过房子了；这是完全安全且正确的。但如果你不喜欢它，你就不需要梦想住在里面。这没有什么困难；有很多房子。我想我只是提一下；你知道，有些人不喜欢护城河。再见。'

‘I adore a moat,’ said Isabel. ‘Good-bye.’
“我喜欢护城河，”伊莎贝尔说。 '再见。'

He held out his hand, and she gave him hers a moment—a moment long enough for him to bend his handsome bared head and kiss it. Then, still agitating, in his mastered emotion, his implement of the chase, he walked rapidly away. He was evidently much upset.
他伸出手，她也给了他一会儿——这一时间足以让他低下他英俊的光头并亲吻它。然后，他仍然激动不已，在他控制的情绪中，他的追逐工具，他快步走开了。他显然非常沮丧。

Isabel herself was upset, but she had not been affected as she would have imagined. What she felt was not a great responsibility, a great difficulty of choice; it appeared to her there had been no choice in the question. She couldn’t marry Lord Warburton; the idea failed to support any enlightened prejudice in favour of the free exploration of life that she had hitherto entertained or was now capable of entertaining. She must write this to him, she must convince him, and that duty was comparatively simple. But what disturbed her, in the sense that it struck her with wonderment, was this very fact that it cost her so little to refuse a magnificent ‘chance.’ With whatever qualifications one would, Lord Warburton had offered her a great opportunity; the situation might have discomforts, might contain oppressive, might contain narrowing elements, might prove really but a stupefying anodyne; but she did her sex no injustice in believing that nineteen women out of twenty would have accommodated themselves to it without a pang. Why then upon her also should it not irresistibly impose itself? Who was she, what was she, that she should hold herself superior? What view of life, what design upon fate, what conception of happiness, had she that pretended to be larger than these large, these fabulous occasions? If she wouldn’t do such a thing as that then she must do great things, she must do something greater. Poor Isabel found ground to remind herself from time to time that she must not be too proud, and nothing could be more sincere than her prayer to be delivered from such a danger: the isolation and loneliness of pride had for her mind the horror of a desert place. If it had been pride that interfered with her accepting Lord Warburton such a betise was singularly misplaced; and she was so conscious of liking him that she ventured to assure herself it was the very softness, and the fine intelligence, of sympathy. She liked him too much to marry him, that was the truth; something assured her there was a fallacy somewhere in the glowing logic of the proposition—as he saw iteven though she mightn’t put her very finest finger-point on it; and to inflict upon a man who offered so much a wife with a tendency to criticize would be a peculiarly discreditable act. She had promised him she would consider his question, and when, after he had left her, she wandered back to the bench where he had found her and lost herself in meditation, it might have seemed that she was keeping her vow. But this was not the case; she was wondering if she were not a cold, hard, priggish person, and, on her at last getting up and going rather quickly back to the house, felt, as she had said to her friend, really frightened at herself.
伊莎贝尔本人也很沮丧，但她并没有像她想象的那样受到影响。她感受到的不是一个重大的责任，一个巨大的选择困难；而是一个巨大的责任。在她看来，这个问题没有选择的余地。她不能嫁给沃伯顿勋爵；她不能嫁给沃伯顿勋爵。这个想法不支持任何开明的偏见，支持她迄今为止所接受的或现在能够接受的对生活的自由探索。她必须写信给他，她必须说服他，而这个任务相对简单。但让她感到不安的是，从某种意义上说，这让她感到惊讶，正是这样一个事实：她拒绝一个绝佳的“机会”的成本如此之低。无论一个人有什么资格，沃伯顿勋爵都为她提供了一个绝佳的机会；她可以说是一个伟大的机会。这种情况可能令人不舒服，可能包含压抑，可能包含狭窄的因素，可能实际上只是一种令人麻木的镇痛剂；但她对自己的性行为并没有什么不公平之处，因为她相信二十个女人中有十九个会毫无痛苦地适应它。那么为什么它不应该不可抗拒地强加给她呢？她是谁，她是什么，竟然要高高在上？她假装比这些伟大的、这些神话般的场合更伟大，她对生活有什么看法，对命运有什么设计，对幸福有什么看法？如果她不做那样的事，那么她就必须做伟大的事情，她必须做更伟大的事情。可怜的伊莎贝尔时不时地提醒自己，不要太骄傲，没有什么比她祈求摆脱这样的危险更真诚的了：骄傲的孤立和孤独让她心生恐惧。沙漠的地方。 如果说她接受沃伯顿勋爵是因为骄傲，那么这样的赌注就大错特错了。她是如此清楚地意识到自己喜欢他，以至于她敢于向自己保证，这就是同情的温柔和智慧。她太喜欢他了，不愿意嫁给他，这是事实；有件事向她保证，这个命题的逻辑中肯定存在一个谬误——正如他所看到的，尽管她可能不会用她最好的方式指出这一点；如果一个男人为自己提供了如此多的妻子，而他却有批评的倾向，那将是一种特别不光彩的行为。她答应过他，她会考虑他的问题，当他离开她后，她漫步回到他发现她的长凳上，陷入沉思，看起来她似乎在遵守她的誓言。但事实并非如此。她想知道自己是不是一个冷酷、冷酷、自命不凡的人，当她终于站起来并很快回到家时，正如她对朋友所说的那样，她真的对自己感到害怕。

Chapter 13
第13章

It was this feeling and not the wish to ask advice—she had no desire whatever for that—that led her to speak to her uncle of what had taken place. She wished to speak to some one; she should feel more natural, more human, and her uncle, for this purpose, presented himself in a more attractive light than either her aunt or her friend Henrietta. Her cousin of course was a possible confidant; but she would have had to do herself violence to air this special secret to Ralph. So the next day, after breakfast, she sought her occasion. Her uncle never left his apartment till the afternoon, but he received his cronies, as he said, in his dressing-room. Isabel had quite taken her place in the class so designated, which, for the rest, included the old man’s son, his physician, his personal servant, and even Miss Stackpole. Mrs. Touchett did not figure in the list, and this was an obstacle the less to Isabel’s finding her host alone. He sat in a complicated mechanical chair, at the open window of his room, looking westward over the park and the river, with his newspapers and letters piled up beside him, his toilet freshly and minutely made, and his smooth, speculative face composed to benevolent expectation.
正是这种感觉，而不是寻求建议的愿望——她对此没有任何渴望——促使她向叔叔讲述了所发生的事情。她想找人谈谈；她应该感觉更自然，更人性化，为此，她的叔叔以比她的姑妈或她的朋友亨丽埃塔更有吸引力的方式展现自己。她的表弟当然是一个可能的知己。但她必须用暴力来向拉尔夫透露这个特殊的秘密。于是第二天，早餐后，她就寻找机会。她叔叔直到下午才离开他的公寓，但正如他所说，他在更衣室里接待了他的密友。伊莎贝尔已经在指定的班级中占据了自己的位置，其余的人包括老人的儿子、他的医生、他的私人仆人，甚至还有斯塔克波尔小姐。塔切特夫人没有出现在名单中，这对于伊莎贝尔单独寻找她的主人来说是一个障碍。他坐在一张复杂的机械椅子上，在房间开着的窗户前，向西眺望公园和河流，身边堆满了报纸和信件，厕所是新做的，精心制作的，光滑的、思索的脸平静地看着善意的期待。

She approached her point directly. ‘I think I ought to let you know that Lord Warburton has asked me to marry him. I suppose I ought to tell my aunt; but it seems best to tell you first.’
她直接谈到了她的观点。 “我想我应该让你知道沃伯顿勋爵已经向我求婚了。我想我应该告诉我姨妈；但似乎最好先告诉你。”

The old man expressed no surprise, but thanked her for the confidence she showed him.
老人并没有表示惊讶，只是感谢她对他表现出的自信。

‘Do you mind telling me whether you accepted him?’ he then enquired.
“你介意告诉我你是否接受他吗？”他接着问道。

‘I’ve not answered him definitely yet; I’ve taken a little time to think of it, because that seems more respectful. But I shall not accept him.’
“我还没有明确回答他；我花了一点时间想了想，因为这样看起来更尊重。但我不会接受他。

Mr. Touchett made no comment upon this; he had the air of thinking that, whatever interest he might take in the matter from the point of view of sociability, he had no active voice in it. ‘Well, I told you you’d be a success over here. Americans are highly appreciated.’
图切特先生对此没有发表任何评论；他的表情是这样认为的，无论从社交的角度来看他对这件事有什么兴趣，他都没有积极的发言权。 “好吧，我告诉过你你会在这里取得成功。美国人受到高度赞赏。

‘Very highly indeed,’ said Isabel. ‘But at the cost of seeming both tasteless and ungrateful, I don’t think I can marry Lord Warburton.’
“确实非常高度，”伊莎贝尔说。 “但我认为我不能嫁给沃伯顿勋爵，代价是显得无趣又忘恩负义。”

‘Well,’ her uncle went on, ‘of course an old man can’t judge for a young lady. I’m glad you didn’t ask me before you made up your mind. I suppose I ought to tell you,’ he added slowly, but as it were not of much consequence, ‘that I’ve known all about it these three days.’
“嗯，”她叔叔继续说道，“当然，一个老人不能评判一个年轻的女士。我很高兴你在做出决定之前没有问我。我想我应该告诉你，”他慢慢地补充道，但这并不重要，“这三天我已经知道了这一切。”

‘About Lord Warburton’s state of mind?’
“关于沃伯顿勋爵的精神状态？”

‘About his intentions, as they say here. He wrote me a very pleasant letter, telling me all about them. Should you like to see his letter?’ the old man obligingly asked.
‘关于他的意图，正如他们在这里所说的那样。他给我写了一封非常愉快的信，向我讲述了他们的一切。 “你想看看他的信吗？”老人殷勤地问道。

‘Thank you; I don’t think I care about that. But I’m glad he wrote to you; it was right that he should, and he would be certain to do what was right.’
'谢谢;我不认为我关心这个。但我很高兴他写信给你；他应该这样做，这是正确的，而且他一定会做正确的事。

‘Ah well, I guess you do like him!’ Mr. Touchett declared. ‘You needn’t pretend you don’t.’
“啊，好吧，我想你确实喜欢他！”图切特先生宣称。 “你不必假装你不知道。”

‘I like him extremely; I’m very free to admit that. But I don’t wish to marry any one just now.’
“我非常喜欢他；我很乐意承认这一点。但我现在不想和任何人结婚。”

‘You think some one may come along whom you may like better. Well, that’s very likely,’ said Mr. Touchett, who appeared to wish to show his kindness to the girl by easing off her decision, as it were, and finding cheerful reasons for it.
‘你认为某个你更喜欢的人可能会出现。嗯，这很有可能。”图切特先生说道，他似乎希望通过放松她的决定来表达他对女孩的善意，并为此找到令人愉快的理由。

‘I don’t care if I don’t meet any one else. I like Lord Warburton quite well enough.’ She fell into that appearance of a sudden change of point of view with which she sometimes startled and even displeased her interlocutors.
“我不在乎是否见到其他人。我非常喜欢沃伯顿勋爵。”她的态度突然改变，有时让她的对话者感到惊讶甚至不高兴。

Her uncle, however, seemed proof against either of these impressions. ‘He’s a very fine man,’ he resumed in a tone which might have passed for that of encouragement. ‘His letter was one of the pleasantest I’ve received for some weeks. I suppose one of the reasons I like it was that it was all about you; that is all except the part that was about himself. I suppose he told you all that.’
然而，她的叔叔似乎并不认同这些印象。 “他是一个非常好的人，”他用一种可能被认为是鼓励的语气继续说道。 “他的信是我这几周以来收到的最令人愉快的信之一。我想我喜欢它的原因之一是它都是关于你的；除了关于他自己的部分之外，就这些了。我想他已经告诉过你这一切了。

‘He would have told me everything I wished to ask him,’ Isabel said.
“他会告诉我我想问他的一切，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘But you didn’t feel curious?’
“但是你不觉得好奇吗？”

‘My curiosity would have been idle—once I had determined to decline his offer.’
“一旦我决定拒绝他的提议，我的好奇心就会毫无意义。”

‘You didn’t find it sufficiently attractive?’ Mr. Touchett enquired.
“你觉得它不够有吸引力吗？”图切特先生问道。

She was silent a little. ‘I suppose it was that,’ she presently admitted. ‘But I don’t know why.’
她沉默了一会儿。 “我想就是这样，”她立即承认。 “但我不知道为什么。”

‘Fortunately ladies are not obliged to give reasons,’ said her uncle. ‘There’s a great deal that’s attractive about such an idea; but I don’t see why the English should want to entice us away from our native land. I know that we try to attract them over there, but that’s because our population is insufficient. Here, you know, they’re rather crowded. However, I presume there’s room for charming young ladies everywhere.’
“幸运的是，女士们没有义务给出理由，”她的叔叔说。 “这样的想法有很多吸引人的地方；但我不明白为什么英国人会想引诱我们离开我们的祖国。我知道我们想吸引他们去那里，但那是因为我们的人口不够。你知道，这里相当拥挤。然而，我认为到处都有迷人的年轻女士的空间。

‘There seems to have been room here for you,’ said Isabel, whose eyes had been wandering over the large pleasure-spaces of the park.
“这里似乎有适合你的地方，”伊莎贝尔说，她的眼睛一直在公园里广阔的游乐空间上徘徊。

Mr. Touchett gave a shrewd, conscious smile. ‘There’s room everywhere, my dear, if you’ll pay for it. I sometimes think I’ve paid too much for this. Perhaps you also might have to pay too much.’
图切特先生露出精明而自觉的微笑。 “亲爱的，只要你付钱，到处都有空间。”有时我想我为此付出了太多。也许你也可能需要付出太多。

‘Perhaps I might,’ the girl replied.
“也许我可以，”女孩回答道。

That suggestion gave her something more definite to rest on than she had found in her own thoughts, and the fact of this association of her uncle’s mild acuteness with her dilemma seemed to prove that she was concerned with the natural and reasonable emotions of life and not altogether a victim to intellectual eagerness and vague ambitionsambitions reaching beyond Lord Warburton’s beautiful appeal, reaching to something indefinable and possibly not commendable. In so far as the indefinable had an influence upon Isabel’s behaviour at this juncture, it was not the conception, even unformulated, of a union with Caspar Goodwood; for however she might have resisted conquest at her English suitor’s large quiet hands she was at least as far removed from the disposition to let the young man from Boston take positive possession of her. The sentiment in which she sought refuge after reading his letter was a critical view of his having come abroad; for it was part of the influence he had upon her that he seemed to deprive her of the sense of freedom. There was a disagreeably strong push, a kind of hardness of presence, in his way of rising before her. She had been haunted at moments by the image, by the danger, of his disapproval and had wondered—a consideration she had never paid in equal degree to any one else—whether he would like what she did. The difficulty was that more than any man she had ever known, more than poor Lord Warburton (she had begun now to give his lordship the benefit of this epithet), Caspar Goodwood expressed for her an energy—and she had already felt it as a power—that was of his very nature. It was in no degree a matter of his ‘advantages’it was a matter of the spirit that sat in his clear-burning eyes like some tireless watcher at a window. She might like it or not, but he insisted, ever, with his whole weight and force: even in one’s usual contact with him one had to reckon with that. The idea of a diminished liberty was particularly disagreeable to her at present, since she had just given a sort of personal accent to her independence by looking so straight at Lord Warburton’s big bribe and yet turning away from it. Sometimes Caspar Goodwood had seemed to range himself on the side of her destiny, to be the stubbornest fact she knew; she said to herself at such moments that she might evade him for a time, but that she must make terms with him at lastterms which would be certain to be favourable to himself. Her impulse had been to avail herself of the things that helped her to resist such an obligation; and this impulse had been much concerned in her eager acceptance of her aunt’s invitation, which had come to her at an hour when she expected from day to day to see Mr. Goodwood and when she was glad to have an answer ready for something she was sure he would say to her. When she had told him at Albany, on the evening of Mrs. Touchett’s visit, that she couldn’t then discuss difficult questions, dazzled as she was by the great immediate opening of her aunt’s offer of ‘Europe,’ he declared that this was no answer at all; and it was now to obtain a better one that he was following her across the sea. To say to herself that he was a kind of grim fate was well enough for a fanciful young woman who was able to take much for granted in him; but the reader has a right to a nearer and a clearer view.
这个建议给了她比她自己的想法更明确的依靠，而她叔叔的温和敏锐与她的困境的这种联系这一事实似乎证明她关心的是生活中自然而合理的情感，而不是完全是知识渴望和模糊野心的牺牲品，超越了沃伯顿勋爵的美丽吸引力，达到了一些难以定义的、可能不值得称赞的目标。就此时此刻伊莎贝尔的行为受到不可定义的影响而言，这并不是与卡斯帕·古德伍德结合的构想，甚至是未明确表达的构想；而是与卡斯帕·古德伍德的结合。因为尽管她可能会抵制英国追求者那双大而安静的手的征服，但她至少不会让这个来自波士顿的年轻人真正占有她。她读完他的信后寻求庇护的情绪是对他出国的批评。因为他似乎剥夺了她的自由感，这也是他对她影响的一部分。他在她面前站起身来，有一种令人不快的强烈推力，一种坚毅的存在。她有时会被他的反对的形象、危险和危险所困扰，并想知道——这是她从未像其他人那样考虑过的——他是否会喜欢她所做的事情。困难在于，卡斯帕·古德伍德比她认识的任何一个男人，比可怜的沃伯顿勋爵（她现在开始用这个绰号给他的勋爵带来好处），都比她所认识的任何人都更能表达出一种能量——而她已经感觉到它是一种力量。权力——这是他的本性。这绝不是他的“优势”的问题，而是他那双明亮的眼睛里的精神问题，就像窗外不知疲倦的守望者。 她可能喜欢也可能不喜欢，但他始终用他的全部力量和力量坚持着：即使在与他平常的接触中，人们也必须考虑到这一点。目前，减少自由的想法对她来说尤其令人不快，因为她刚刚直视沃伯顿勋爵的巨​​额贿赂，却又回避它，从而给自己的独立增添了某种个人色彩。有时，卡斯帕·古德伍德似乎站在她的命运一边，这是她所知道的最顽固的事实；在这种时刻，她对自己说，她可以暂时逃避他，但她必须在最后与他达成协议，这肯定对他有利。她的冲动是利用那些能帮助她抵抗这种义务的东西；但她却没有这样做。这种冲动与她热切地接受姨妈的邀请有关，当她日复一日地盼望着能见到古德伍德先生，并且很高兴为她所要做的事情准备好答案时，她就收到了邀请。他肯定会对她说。塔切特夫人来访的那天晚上，她在奥尔巴尼告诉他，她当时无法讨论困难的问题，因为她姨妈立即提出的“欧洲”提议令她眼花缭乱，他宣称这是根本没有答案；现在他跟着她漂洋过海，就是为了得到更好的一份。对于一个爱幻想的年轻女子来说，对自己说他是一种严峻的命运，这已经足够了，因为她能够在他身上看到很多东西是理所当然的。但读者有权获得更近、更清晰的观点。

He was the son of a proprietor of well-known cotton-mills in Massachusetts—a gentleman who had accumulated a considerable fortune in the exercise of this industry. Caspar at present managed the works, and with a judgement and a temper which, in spite of keen competition and languid years, had kept their prosperity from dwindling. He had received the better part of his education at Harvard College, where, however, he had gained renown rather as a gymnast and an oarsman than as a gleaner of more dispersed knowledge. Later on he had learned that the finer intelligence too could vault and pull and strain—might even, breaking the record, treat itself to rare exploits. He had thus discovered in himself a sharp eye for the mystery of mechanics, and had invented an improvement in the cotton-spinning process which was now largely used and was known by his name. You might have seen it in the newspapers in connection with this fruitful contrivance; assurance of which he had given to Isabel by showing her in the columns of the New York Interviewer an exhaustive article on the Goodwood patent—an article not prepared by Miss Stackpole, friendly as she had proved herself to his more sentimental interests. There were intricate, bristling things he rejoiced in; he liked to organize, to contend, to administer; he could make people work his will, believe in him, march before him and justify him. This was the art, as they said, of managing men—which rested, in him, further, on a bold though brooding ambition. It struck those who knew him well that he might do greater things than carry on a cotton-factory; there was nothing cottony about Caspar Goodwood, and his friends took for granted that he would somehow and somewhere write himself in bigger letters. But it was as if something large and confused, something dark and ugly, would have to call upon him: he was not after all in harmony with mere smug peace and greed and gain, an order of things of which the vital breath was ubiquitous advertisement. It pleased Isabel to believe that he might have ridden, on a plunging steed, the whirlwind of a great war—a war like the Civil strife that had overdarkened her conscious childhood and his ripening youth.
他是马萨诸塞州一位著名棉纺厂老板的儿子，是一位在从事这一行业中积累了可观财富的绅士。卡斯帕目前管理着这些工厂，他的判断力和脾气，尽管竞争激烈，岁月萎靡，但仍使工厂的繁荣不致衰退。他在哈佛大学接受了大部分教育，然而，他在那里获得的声誉与其说是作为一名体操运动员和桨手，不如说是作为一名分散知识的收集者。后来他了解到，更优秀的智力也可以跳跃、拉动和拉紧——甚至可能打破纪录，获得罕见的成就。因此，他发现了自己对机械奥秘的敏锐洞察力，并发明了棉纺工艺的改进，这种工艺现在被广泛使用，并以他的名字而闻名。您可能在报纸上看到过与这一卓有成效的发明有关的内容；他向伊莎贝尔保证了这一点，他在《纽约采访者》的专栏中向她展示了一篇关于古德伍德专利的详尽文章——这篇文章不是由斯塔克波尔小姐准备的，她已经向他的更多情感兴趣证明了自己的友善。他对那些错综复杂、毛茸茸的东西感到高兴。他喜欢组织、竞争、管理。他可以让人们按照他的意愿行事，相信他，走在他的前面，为他辩护。正如他们所说，这就是管理人员的艺术，而这又取决于他大胆而深沉的野心。那些熟悉他的人惊讶地发现，他可能会做比经营一家棉花厂更伟大的事情。卡斯帕·古德伍德一点也不笨拙，他的朋友们理所当然地认为他会以某种方式在某个地方用更大的字母写下自己。 但似乎有某种巨大而混乱、黑暗而丑陋的东西必须向他召唤：他毕竟与自鸣得意的和平、贪婪和利益不和谐，这些事物的生命气息无处不在。 。伊莎贝尔高兴地相信，他可能骑着一匹猛冲的战马，乘上了一场伟大战争的旋风——一场像内乱一样的战争，使她清醒的童年和他成熟的青春变得黯淡无光。

She liked at any rate this idea of his being by character and in fact a mover of men—liked it much better than some other points in his nature and aspect. She cared nothing for his cotton-mill—the Goodwood patent left her imagination absolutely cold. She wished him no ounce less of his manhood, but she sometimes thought he would be rather nicer if he looked, for instance, a little differently. His jaw was too square and set and his figure too straight and stiff: these things suggested a want of easy consonance with the deeper rhythms of life. Then she viewed with reserve a habit he had of dressing always in the same manner; it was not apparently that he wore the same clothes continually, for, on the contrary, his garments had a way of looking rather too new. But they all seemed of the same piece; the figure, the stuff, was so drearily usual. She had reminded herself more than once that this was a frivolous objection to a person of his importance; and then she had amended the rebuke by saying that it would be a frivolous objection only if she were in love with him. She was not in love with him and therefore might criticize his small defects as well as his great—which latter consisted in the collective reproach of his being too serious, or, rather, not of his being so, since one could never be, but certainly of his seeming so. He showed his appetites and designs too simply and artlessly; when one was alone with him he talked too much about the same subject, and when other people were present he talked too little about anything. And yet he was of supremely strong, clean make—which was so much: she saw the different fitted parts of him as she had seen, in museums and portraits, the different fitted parts of armoured warriors—in plates of steel handsomely inlaid with gold. It was very strange: where, ever, was any tangible link between her impression and her act? Caspar Goodwood had never corresponded to her idea of a delightful person, and she supposed that this was why he left her so harshly critical. When, however, Lord Warburton, who not only did correspond with it, but gave an extension to the term, appealed to her approval, she found herself still unsatisfied. It was certainly strange.
无论如何，她喜欢他的性格，事实上，他是一个男人的推动者——比他的本性和外貌的其他一些方面更喜欢这一点。她对他的棉纺厂毫不关心——古德伍德的专利让她的想象力彻底冷淡。她希望他的男子气概丝毫不减，但有时她又想，如果他看起来稍微不同一点，他会更好一些。他的下巴过于方正，身材过于笔直僵硬：这些都表明他缺乏与更深层次的生活节奏的轻松协调。然后，她带着保留的态度看待他总是以同样的方式着装的习惯。显然他并不是一直穿着同样的衣服，相反，他的衣服看起来太新了。但他们看起来都是同一件；这个人物，这个东西，都是那么平淡无奇。她不止一次提醒自己，这是对一个重要人物的轻率反对。然后她修改了责备，说只有当她爱上他时，这才是无意义的反对。她不爱他，因此可能会批评他的小缺点和他的大缺点——后者包括集体谴责他太严肃，或者更确切地说，不是他如此，因为一个人永远不可能如此，但当然，他看起来确实如此。他把自己的胃口和计划表现得过于简单和天真；当一个人和他单独相处时，他对同一话题谈论太多，而当其他人在场时，他对任何事情都谈论得太少。然而他却异常强壮、干净——这一点太重要了：她看到他身上不同的合身部位，就像她在博物馆和肖像画中看到的装甲战士的不同合身部位一样——在漂亮地镶嵌着黄金的钢板上。 这很奇怪：她的印象和她的行为之间到底在哪里有任何切实的联系？卡斯帕·古德伍德从来不符合她心目中令人愉快的人的观念，她认为这就是他对她如此严厉批评的原因。然而，当沃伯顿勋爵不仅予以回应，还延长了期限，请求她批准时，她发现自己仍然不满意。这确实很奇怪。

The sense of her incoherence was not a help to answering Mr. Goodwood’s letter, and Isabel determined to leave it a while unhonoured. If he had determined to persecute her he must take the consequences; foremost among which was his being left to perceive how little it charmed her that he should come down to Gardencourt. She was already liable to the incursions of one suitor at this place, and though it might be pleasant to be appreciated in opposite quarters there was a kind of grossness in entertaining two such passionate pleaders at once, even in a case where the entertainment should consist of dismissing them. She made no reply to Mr. Goodwood; but at the end of three days she wrote to Lord Warburton, and the letter belongs to our history.
她语无伦次的感觉无助于回复古德伍德先生的信，伊莎贝尔决定暂且不去理会这封信。如果他决定迫害她，他就必须承担后果；其中最重要的是，他意识到自己来到花园庭院对她来说是多么没有吸引力。她已经很容易受到一个追求者在这个地方的入侵，虽然在相反的地方受到赞赏可能会令人愉快，但同时招待两个如此热情的求婚者是一种粗俗，即使在娱乐应该包括的情况下解雇他们。她没有回答古德伍德先生。但三天后，她写信给沃伯顿勋爵，这封信属于我们的历史。

DEAR LORD WARBURTON—A great deal of earnest thought has not led me to change my mind about the suggestion you were so kind as to make me the other day. I am not, I am really and truly not, able to regard you in the light of a companion for life; or to think of your home—your various homes—as settled seat of my existence. These things cannot be reasoned about, and I very earnestly entreat you not to return to the subject we discussed so exhaustively. We see our lives from our own point of view; that is the privilege of the weakest and humblest of us; and I shall never be able to see mine in the manner you proposed. Kindly let this suffice you, and do me the justice to believe that I have given your proposal the deeply respectful consideration it deserves. It is with this very great regard that I remain sincerely yours,
亲爱的沃伯顿勋爵——经过深思熟虑，我并没有改变对您前几天向我提出的建议的看法。我不能，我真的不能把你当作一生的伴侣；或者将你的家——你的各个家——视为我存在的固定所在地。这些事情是无法推理的，我恳切地恳求你不要再回到我们如此详尽地讨论的话题上来。我们从自己的角度看待我们的生活；这是我们中最弱者和最卑微者的特权；我将永远无法以你提议的方式看到我的。请让您满足于此，请公正地相信我已经对您的建议给予了应有的深切尊重的考虑。正是怀着如此崇高的敬意，我真诚地向您表示敬意，

ISABEL ARCHER
伊莎贝尔·阿切尔

While the author of this missive was making up her mind to despatch it Henrietta Stackpole formed a resolve which was accompanied by no demur. She invited Ralph Touchett to take a walk with her in the garden, and when he had assented with that alacrity which seemed constantly to testify to his high expectations, she informed him that she had a favour to ask of him. It may be admitted that at this information the young man flinched; for we know that Miss Stackpole had struck him as apt to push an advantage. The alarm was unreasoned, however; for he was clear about the area of her indiscretion as little as advised of its vertical depth, and he made a very civil profession of the desire to serve her. He was afraid of her and presently told her so. ‘When you look at me in a certain way my knees knock together, my faculties desert me; I’m filled with trepidation and I ask only for strength to execute your commands. You’ve an address that I’ve never encountered in any woman.’
当这封信的作者决定寄出这封信时，亨丽埃塔·斯塔克波尔毫无异议地下了决心。她邀请拉尔夫·图切特和她一起去花园散步，当他欣然同意时，她似乎不断证明了他的高期望，她告诉他，她有件事要请他帮忙。可以承认，听到这个消息，年轻人退缩了。因为我们知道斯塔克波尔小姐给他留下了深刻的印象，因为他很容易取得优势。然而，这种警报是没有道理的。因为他很清楚她不检点的范围，也不清楚其纵向深度，而且他非常礼貌地表示愿意为她服务。他害怕她，不久就告诉了她。 “当你以某种方式看我时，我的膝盖会打颤，我的能力就抛弃了我；我充满了恐惧，我只需要力量来执行你的命令。你有一个我从未在任何女人身上见过的地址。

‘Well,’ Henrietta replied good-humouredly, ‘if I had not known before that you were trying somehow to abash me I should know it now. Of course I’m easy game—I was brought up with such different customs and ideas. I’m not used to your arbitrary standards, and I’ve never been spoken to in America as you have spoken to me. If a gentleman conversing with me over there were to speak to me like that I shouldn’t know what to make of it. We take everything more naturally over there, and, after all, we’re a great deal more simple. I admit that; I’m very simple myself. Of course if you choose to laugh at me for it you’re very welcome; but I think on the whole I would rather be myself than you. I’m quite content to be myself; I don’t want to change. There are plenty of people that appreciate me just as I am. It’s true they’re nice fresh free-born Americans!’ Henrietta had lately taken up the tone of helpless innocence and large concession. ‘I want you to assist me a little,’ she went on. ‘I don’t care in the least whether I amuse you while you do so; or, rather, I’m perfectly willing your amusement should be your reward. I want you to help me about Isabel.’
“好吧，”亨丽埃塔幽默地回答，“如果我之前不知道你想以某种方式羞辱我，我现在应该知道了。当然，我是一个很容易相处的人——我是在如此不同的习俗和想法中长大的。我不习惯你武断的标准，而且我在美国也从来没有像你对我那样说话过。如果那边一位与我交谈的绅士对我这样说话，我不知道该怎么办。在那里，我们对一切都更加自然，而且，毕竟，我们要简单得多。我承认；我自己也很简单。当然，如果你选择为此嘲笑我，那也是非常受欢迎的。但我想总的来说，我宁愿做我自己，也不愿做你。我很满足于做我自己；我不想改变。有很多人和我一样欣赏我。确实，他们是生来自由的好美国人！”最近，亨利埃塔的语气充满了无助的天真和巨大的让步。 “我希望你能帮我一点忙，”她继续说道。 “我一点也不关心你这么做的时候我是否能让你开心；我不在乎。”或者，更确切地说，我完全愿意你的娱乐应该成为你的奖励。我想让你帮我处理伊莎贝尔的事。

‘Has she injured you?’ Ralph asked.
“她伤到你了吗？”拉尔夫问。

‘If she had I shouldn’t mind, and I should never tell you. What I’m afraid of is that she’ll injure herself.’
“如果她有，我不应该介意，而且我永远不应该告诉你。我担心的是她会伤害自己。

‘I think that’s very possible,’ said Ralph.
“我认为这很有可能，”拉尔夫说。

His companion stopped in the garden-walk, fixing on him perhaps the very gaze that unnerved him. ‘That too would amuse you, I suppose. The way you do things! I never heard any one so indifferent.’
他的同伴在花园小道上停下来，盯着他看，也许正是那双让他不安的目光。 “我想，这也会让你觉得有趣。”你做事的方式！我从来没有听过有人如此冷漠。

‘To Isabel? Ah, not that!’
“给伊莎贝尔？啊，不是那样！

‘Well, you’re not in love with her, I hope.’
“好吧，我希望你不爱她。”

‘How can that be, when I’m in love with Another?’
“当我爱上另一个人时，怎么会这样呢？”

‘You’re in love with yourself, that’s the Other!’ Miss Stackpole declared. ‘Much good may it do you! But if you wish to be serious once in your life here’s a chance; and if you really care for your cousin here’s an opportunity to prove it. I don’t expect you to understand her; that’s too much to ask. But you needn’t do that to grant my favour. I’ll supply the necessary intelligence.’
“你爱的是自己，那就是他人！”斯塔克波尔小姐宣称。 “这对你有好处！”但如果你想在一生中认真一次，这里有一个机会；如果你真的关心你的表弟，这里有一个证明这一点的机会。我不指望你能理解她；要求太多了。但你不必这样做来表示我的好意。我将提供必要的情报。

‘I shall enjoy that immensely!’ Ralph exclaimed. ‘I’ll be Caliban and you shall be Ariel.’
“我会非常享受这个！”拉尔夫喊道。 “我将成为卡利班，你将成为爱丽儿。”

‘You’re not at all like Caliban, because you’re sophisticated, and Caliban was not. But I’m not talking about imaginary characters; I’m talking about Isabel. Isabel’s intensely real. What I wish to tell you is that I find her fearfully changed.’
“你一点也不像卡利班，因为你很老练，而卡利班则不然。但我不是在谈论虚构的人物；而是在谈论虚构的人物。我说的是伊莎贝尔。伊莎贝尔非常真实。我想告诉你的是，我发现她发生了可怕的变化。

‘Since you came, do you mean?’
“你是说自从你来了之后？”

‘Since I came and before I came. She’s not the same as she once so beautifully was.’
‘自从我来之后，以及我来之前。她不再像以前那样美丽了。”

‘As she was in America?’
“就像她在美国时那样？”

‘Yes, in America. I suppose you know she comes from there. She can’t help it, but she does.’
“是的，在美国。我想你知道她来自那里。她无能为力，但她就是这么做。

‘Do you want to change her back again?’
“你想把她变回来吗？”

‘Of course I do, and I want you to help me.’
“我当然愿意，我希望你能帮助我。”

‘Ah,’ said Ralph, ‘I’m only Caliban; I’m not Prospero.’
“啊，”拉尔夫说，“我只是卡利班；我不是普洛斯彼罗。

‘You were Prospero enough to make her what she has become. You’ve acted on Isabel Archer since she came here, Mr. Touchett.’
‘你是普洛斯彼罗，足以让她成为现在的样子。自从伊莎贝尔·阿切尔来到这里以来，你就对她采取了行动，图切特先生。

‘I, my dear Miss Stackpole? Never in the world. Isabel Archer has acted on me—yes; she acts on every one. But I’ve been absolutely passive.’
“我，亲爱的斯塔克波尔小姐？世上从来没有。伊莎贝尔·阿切尔对我采取了行动——是的；她对每一个人都采取行动。但我一直处于绝对被动的状态。”

‘You’re too passive then. You had better stir yourself and be careful. Isabel’s changing every day; she’s drifting away—right out to sea. I’ve watched her and I can see it. She’s not the bright American girl she was. She’s taking different views, a different colour, and turning away from her old ideals. I want to save those ideals, Mr. Touchett, and that’s where you come in.’
‘那你就太被动了。你最好搅动一下，小心一点。伊莎贝尔每天都在变化；她正在漂流——直接出海了。我观察过她，我能看到这一点。她不再是以前那个聪明的美国女孩了。她正在采取不同的观点、不同的颜色，并背离她旧有的理想。我想拯救这些理想，图切特先生，这就是你的用武之地。

‘Not surely as an ideal?’
“这肯定不是一个理想吗？”

‘Well, I hope not,’ Henrietta replied promptly. ‘I’ve got a fear in my heart that she’s going to marry one of these fell Europeans, and I want to prevent it.’
“好吧，我希望不会，”亨利埃塔立即回答道。 “我心里有一种恐惧，担心她会嫁给这些堕落的欧洲人中的一个，我想阻止它。”

‘Ah, I see,’ cried Ralph; ‘and to prevent it you want me to step in and marry her?’
“啊，我明白了，”拉尔夫喊道。 “为了防止这种情况发生，你想让我介入并娶她吗？”

‘Not quite; that remedy would be as bad as the disease, for you’re the typical, the fell European from whom I wish to rescue her. No; I wish you to take an interest in another person—a young man to whom she once gave great encouragement and whom she now doesn’t seem to think good enough. He’s a thoroughly grand man and a very dear friend of mine, and I wish very much you would invite him to pay a visit here.’
'不完全的;这种疗法和疾病一样糟糕，因为你是典型的、堕落的欧洲人，我希望把她从你手中拯救出来。不;我希望你对另一个人感兴趣——一个她曾经给予过很大鼓励的年轻人，但现在她似乎认为他不够好。他是一位十足的伟人，也是我的一位非常亲爱的朋友，我非常希望你能邀请他来这里参观。

Ralph was puzzled by this appeal, and it is perhaps not to the credit of his purity of mind that he failed to look at it at first in the simplest light. It wore, to his eyes, a tortuous air, and his fault was that he was not quite sure that anything in the world could really be as candid as this request of Miss Stackpole’s appeared. That a young woman should demand that a gentleman whom she described as her very dear friend should be furnished with an opportunity to make himself agreeable to another young woman, a young woman whose attention had wandered and whose charms were greater—this was an anomaly which for the moment challenged all his ingenuity of interpretation. To read between the lines was easier than to follow the text, and to suppose that Miss Stackpole wished the gentleman invited to Gardencourt on her own account was the sign not so much of a vulgar as of an embarrassed mind. Even from this venial act of vulgarity, however, Ralph was saved, and saved by a force that I can only speak of as inspiration. With no more outward light on the subject than he already possessed he suddenly acquired the conviction that it would be a sovereign injustice to the correspondent of the Interviewer to assign a dishonourable motive to any act of hers. This conviction passed into his mind with extreme rapidity; it was perhaps kindled by the pure radiance of the young lady’s imperturbable gaze. He returned this challenge a moment, consciously, resisting an inclination to frown as one frowns in the presence of larger luminaries. ‘Who’s the gentleman you speak of?’
拉尔夫对这种呼吁感到困惑，他一开始没有从最简单的角度来看待这个问题，这也许不值得他的思想纯洁性的赞扬。在他看来，这充满了一种曲折的气氛，而他的错误在于，他不太确定世界上有什么事情真的可以像斯塔克波尔小姐的这个要求那样坦诚。一位年轻女子要求为一位她所称的非常亲密的朋友提供一个机会，让自己对另一位年轻女子表示满意，而这位年轻女子的注意力已经转移，而且魅力更大——这是一种反常现象，此刻，他的解释能力受到了挑战。读懂字里行间的字里行间比读懂文字要容易，而且如果认为斯塔克波尔小姐希望这位绅士以她自己的名义被邀请到花园考特，这与其说是一种粗俗的表现，不如说是一种尴尬的心态的表现。然而，即使是从这种卑鄙的行为中，拉尔夫也被拯救了，并且被一种我只能称之为灵感的力量所拯救。由于对这个问题的了解并不比他已经掌握的更多，他突然确信，如果将采访者的任何行为归咎于不光彩的动机，那对她来说是一种极大的不公正。这个信念以极快的速度传入他的脑海。也许是被这位年轻女士平静的目光中纯净的光芒所点燃。他有意识地回应了这一挑战，抑制住了皱眉的倾向，就像人们在更大的发光体面前皱眉一样。 “你说的那位先生是谁？”

‘Mr. Caspar Goodwood—of Boston. He has been extremely attentive to Isabel—just as devoted to her as he can live. He has followed her out here and he’s at present in London. I don’t know his address, but I guess I can obtain it.’
'先生。卡斯帕·古德伍德——来自波士顿。他对伊莎贝尔非常关心——尽他所能地忠于她。他跟着她来到了这里，目前在伦敦。我不知道他的地址，但我想我可以得到它。

‘I’ve never heard of him,’ said Ralph.
“我从没听说过他，”拉尔夫说。

‘Well, I suppose you haven’t heard of every one. I don’t believe he has ever heard of you; but that’s no reason why Isabel shouldn’t marry him.’
“好吧，我想你还没有听说过每一个人。我不相信他听说过你；但这并不是伊莎贝尔不应该嫁给他的理由。

Ralph gave a mild ambiguous laugh. ‘What a rage you have for marrying people! Do you remember how you wanted to marry me the other day?’
拉尔夫发出一声温和而暧昧的笑声。 ‘你对与人结婚有多么愤怒啊！你还记得那天你有多想嫁给我吗？

‘I’ve got over that. You don’t know how to take such ideas. Mr. Goodwood does, however; and that’s what I like about him. He’s a splendid man and a perfect gentleman, and Isabel knows it.’
“我已经克服了这个问题。你不知道如何接受这样的想法。然而古德伍德先生却这么做了；这就是我喜欢他的地方。他是一位出色的男人，一位完美的绅士，伊莎贝尔知道这一点。

‘Is she very fond of him?’
“她很喜欢他吗？”

‘If she isn’t she ought to be. He’s simply wrapped up in her.’
“如果她不是，她也应该是。”他只是被她迷住了。

‘And you wish me to ask him here,’ said Ralph reflectively.
“你希望我在这里问他，”拉尔夫若有所思地说。

‘It would be an act of true hospitality.’
“这将是一种真正的热情好客之举。”

‘Caspar Goodwood,’ Ralph continued—‘it’s rather a striking name.’
“卡斯帕·古德伍德，”拉尔夫继续说道，“这是一个相当引人注目的名字。”

‘I don’t care anything about his name. It might be Ezekiel Jenkins, and I should say the same. He’s the only man I have ever seen whom I think worthy of Isabel.’
‘我一点也不关心他的名字。可能是以西结·詹金斯，我也应该这么说。他是我见过的唯一一个配得上伊莎贝尔的人。

‘You’re a very devoted friend,’ said Ralph.
“你是一位非常忠诚的朋友，”拉尔夫说。

‘Of course I am. If you say that to pour scorn on me I don’t care.’
'我当然是。如果你这么说是为了蔑视我，我不在乎。

‘I don’t say it to pour scorn on you; I’m very much struck with it.’
“我这么说并不是为了嘲笑你；我对此感到非常震惊。

‘You’re more satiric than ever, but I advise you not to laugh at Mr. Goodwood.’
“你比以往任何时候都更讽刺，但我建议你不要嘲笑古德伍德先生。”

‘I assure you I’m very serious; you ought to understand that,’ said Ralph.
“我向你保证我是很认真的；你应该明白这一点，”拉尔夫说。

In a moment his companion understood it. ‘I believe you are; now you’re too serious.’
过了一会儿，他的同伴就明白了。 ‘我相信你是；现在你太认真了。

‘You’re difficult to please.’
“你很难取悦。”

‘Oh, you’re very serious indeed. You won’t invite Mr. Goodwood.’
‘哦，你确实很认真。你不会邀请古德伍德先生。

‘I don’t know,’ said Ralph. ‘I’m capable of strange things. Tell me a little about Mr. Goodwood. What’s he like?’
“我不知道，”拉尔夫说。 “我有能力做一些奇怪的事情。告诉我一些关于古德伍德先生的事。他是什么样的人？

‘He’s just the opposite of you. He’s at the head of a cotton-factory; a very fine one.’
‘他和你正好相反。他是一家棉花厂的厂长；非常好的一个。

‘Has he pleasant manners?’ asked Ralph.
“他有礼貌吗？”拉尔夫问。

‘Splendid manners—in the American style.’
“举止优雅——美国风格。”

‘Would he be an agreeable member of our little circle?’
“他会成为我们小圈子中令人愉快的成员吗？”

‘I don’t think he’d care much about our little circle. He’d concentrate on Isabel.’
“我认为他不会太关心我们的小圈子。他会把注意力集中在伊莎贝尔身上。

‘And how would my cousin like that?’
“我表弟会喜欢这样吗？”

‘Very possibly not at all. But it will be good for her. It will call back her thoughts.’
‘很可能根本就没有。但这对她来说会有好处。它会唤起她的思绪。

‘Call them back—from where?’
“从哪里叫他们回来？”

‘From foreign parts and other unnatural places. Three months ago she gave Mr. Goodwood every reason to suppose he was acceptable to her, and it’s not worthy of Isabel to go back on a real friend simply because she has changed the scene. I’ve changed the scene too, and the effect of it has been to make me care more for my old associations than ever. It’s my belief that the sooner Isabel changes it back again the better. I know her well enough to know that she would never be truly happy over here, and I wish her to form some strong American tie that will act as a preservative.’
“来自异国和其他不自然的地方。三个月前，她给了古德伍德先生充分的理由认为他可以被她接受，而伊莎贝尔不值得仅仅因为她改变了场景就背弃一个真正的朋友。我也改变了这个场景，它的效果是让我比以往任何时候都更加关心我以前的交往。我相信伊莎贝尔越早把它改回来越好。我很了解她，知道她在这里永远不会真正快乐，我希望她能建立某种牢固的美国关系，作为防腐剂。

‘Aren’t you perhaps a little too much in a hurry?’ Ralph enquired. ‘Don’t you think you ought to give her more of a chance in poor old England?’
“你是不是有点太着急了？”拉尔夫问道。 “你不认为你应该在贫穷的老英格兰给她更多的机会吗？”

‘A chance to ruin her bright young life? One’s never too much in a hurry to save a precious human creature from drowning.’
‘有机会毁掉她明亮的年轻生活吗？为了拯救溺水的珍贵人类生物，永远不会太着急。”

‘As I understand it then,’ said Ralph, ‘you wish me to push Mr. Goodwood overboard after her. Do you know,’ he added, ‘that I’ve never heard her mention his name?’
“据我所知，”拉尔夫说，“你希望我把古德伍德先生推下海去追她。 “你知道吗，”他补充道，“我从来没有听她提起过他的名字？”

Henrietta gave a brilliant smile. ‘I’m delighted to hear that; it proves how much she thinks of him.’
亨丽埃塔露出灿烂的笑容。 “我很高兴听到这个消息；这证明了她有多想他。

Ralph appeared to allow that there was a good deal in this, and he surrendered to thought while his companion watched him askance. ‘If I should invite Mr. Goodwood,’ he finally said, ‘it would be to quarrel with him.’
拉尔夫似乎承认这其中有很多道理，他陷入沉思，而他的同伴则斜眼看着他。 “如果我邀请古德伍德先生，”他最后说道，“那就是和他吵架。”

‘Don’t do that; he’d prove the better man.’
‘别那样做；他会证明自己是更好的人。

‘You certainly are doing your best to make me hate him! I really don’t think I can ask him. I should be afraid of being rude to, him.’
‘你真是想尽办法让我恨他！我真的觉得我不能问他。我应该害怕对他无礼。

‘It’s just as you please,’ Henrietta returned. ‘I had no idea you were in love with her yourself.’
“随你便。”亨利埃塔回答道。 “我不知道你自己也爱上了她。”

‘Do you really believe that?’ the young man asked with lifted eyebrows.
“你真的相信吗？”年轻人扬眉问道。

‘That’s the most natural speech I’ve ever heard you make! Of course I believe it,’ Miss Stackpole ingeniously said.
“这是我听过的最自然的演讲！”我当然相信，”斯塔克波尔小姐巧妙地说。

‘Well,’ Ralph concluded, ‘to prove to you that you’re wrong I’ll invite him. It must be of course as a friend of yours.’
“好吧，”拉尔夫总结道，“为了向你证明你错了，我会邀请他。”当然必须是作为你的朋友。

‘It will not be as a friend of mine that he’ll come; and it will not be to prove to me that I’m wrong that you’ll ask him—but to prove it to yourself!’
“他不会以我的朋友的身份来；他不会以我的朋友的身份来。”你问他并不是为了向我证明我错了——而是为了向你自己证明这一点！

These last words of Miss Stackpole’s (on which the two presently separated) contained an amount of truth which Ralph Touchett was obliged to recognize; but it so far took the edge from too sharp a recognition that, in spite of his suspecting it would be rather more indiscreet to keep than to break his promise, he wrote Mr. Goodwood a note of six lines, expressing the pleasure it would give Mr. Touchett the elder that he should join a little party at Gardencourt, of which Miss Stackpole was a valued member. Having sent his letter (to the care of a banker whom Henrietta suggested) he waited in some suspense. He had heard this fresh formidable figure named for the first time; for when his mother had mentioned on her arrival that there was a story about the girl’s having an ‘admirer’ at home, the idea had seemed deficient in reality and he had taken no pains to ask questions the answers to which would involve only the vague or the disagreeable. Now, however, the native admiration of which his cousin was the object had become more concrete; it took the form of a young man who had followed her to London, who was interested in a cotton-mill and had manners in the most splendid of the American styles. Ralph had two theories about this intervener. Either his passion was a sentimental fiction of Miss Stackpole’s (there was always a sort of tacit understanding among women, born of the solidarity of the sex, that they should discover or invent lovers for each other), in which case he was not to be feared and would probably not accept the invitation; or else he would accept the invitation and in this event prove himself a creature too irrational to demand further consideration. The latter clause of Ralph’s argument might have seemed incoherent; but it embodied his conviction that if Mr. Goodwood were interested in Isabel in the serious manner described by Miss Stackpole he would not care to present himself at Gardencourt on a summons from the latter lady. ‘On this supposition,’ said Ralph, ‘he must regard her as a thorn on the stem of his rose; as an intercessor he must find her wanting in tact.’
斯塔克波尔小姐的最后一句话（两人目前分开）包含了拉尔夫·图切特不得不承认的大量事实。尽管他怀疑遵守诺言比违背诺言更为不谨慎，但到目前为止，它还是避免了过于尖锐的认识，他给古德伍德先生写了一张六行字条，表达了它会给古德伍德先生带来的快乐。老图切特先生建议他参加花园考特的一个小聚会，斯塔克波尔小姐是其中的一位重要成员。寄出信后（由亨丽埃塔建议的一位银行家代为保管），他怀着忐忑的心情等待着。他还是第一次听到这个令人敬畏的新人物的名字。因为当他的母亲在她到来时提到有一个关于那个女孩在家里有一个“仰慕者”的故事时，这个想法似乎在现实中是有缺陷的，他并没有费力地提出问题，而答案只会涉及到模糊的答案。或不愉快的事。然而现在，他对表弟的自然钦佩已经变得更加具体。它以一个跟随她来到伦敦的年轻人的形式出现，他对棉纺厂感兴趣，并且具有最出色的美国风格的举止。拉尔夫对这个干预者有两种理论。要么他的激情是斯塔克波尔小姐的感伤小说（女人之间总是有一种默契，源于性别的团结，她们应该为彼此发现或创造情人），在这种情况下，他就不会成为害怕并且可能不会接受邀请；否则他会接受邀请，在这种情况下证明自己是一个太不理性的人，不需要进一步考虑。 拉尔夫论点的后一个条款可能看起来不连贯。但这体现了他的信念：如果古德伍德先生像斯塔克波尔小姐所描述的那样对伊莎贝尔感兴趣，他就不会愿意应伊莎贝尔小姐的召唤来到花园考特。 “照此推测，”拉尔夫说道，“他必定将她视为他玫瑰花茎上的一根刺；”作为调解人，他必须发现她不够圆滑。’

Two days after he had sent his invitation he received a very short note from Caspar Goodwood, thanking him for it, regretting that other engagements made a visit to Gardencourt impossible and presenting many compliments to Miss Stackpole. Ralph handed the note to Henrietta, who, when she had read it, exclaimed: ‘Well, I never have heard of anything so stiff!’
发出邀请函两天后，他收到卡斯帕·古德伍德寄来的一封简短的便条，感谢他的邀请，同时对因其他事务而无法访问花园考特表示遗憾，并向斯塔克波尔小姐致以许多赞美。拉尔夫把纸条递给亨利埃塔，亨利埃塔读完后惊呼道：“好吧，我从来没有听说过这么僵硬的东西！”

‘I’m afraid he doesn’t care so much about my cousin as you suppose,’ Ralph observed.
“恐怕他不像你想象的那么关心我的表弟，”拉尔夫说道。

‘No, it’s not that; it’s some subtler motive. His nature’s very deep. But I’m determined to fathom it, and I shall write to him to know what he means.’
‘不，不是那样的；这是一些更微妙的动机。他的本性很深沉。但我决心弄清楚它，我会写信给他，了解他的意思。

His refusal of Ralph’s overtures was vaguely disconcerting; from the moment he declined to come to Gardencourt our friend began to think him of importance. He asked himself what it signified to him whether Isabel’s admirers should be desperadoes or laggards; they were not rivals of his and were perfectly welcome to act out their genius. Nevertheless he felt much curiosity as to the result of Miss Stackpole’s promised enquiry into the causes of Mr. Goodwood’s stiffness—a curiosity for the present ungratified, inasmuch as when he asked her three days later if she had written to London she was obliged to confess she had written in vain. Mr. Goodwood had not replied.
他拒绝了拉尔夫的提议，这有点令人不安。从他拒绝来花园考特那一刻起，我们的朋友就开始认为他很重要。他问自己，伊莎贝尔的崇拜者应该是亡命之徒还是落后者，这对他意味着什么？他们不是他的对手，非常欢迎他们发挥自己的才华。尽管如此，他对斯塔克波尔小姐许诺调查古德伍德先生僵硬的原因的结果感到非常好奇——这种好奇目前没有得到满足，因为三天后当他问她是否写信给伦敦时，她不得不承认她白写了。古德伍德先生没有回复。

‘I suppose he’s thinking it over,’ she said; ‘he thinks everything over; he’s not really at all impetuous. But I’m accustomed to having my letters answered the same day.’ She presently proposed to Isabel, at all events, that they should make an excursion to London together. ‘If I must tell the truth,’ she observed, ‘I’m not seeing much at this place, and I shouldn’t think you were either. I’ve not even seen that aristocrat—what’s his name?—Lord Washburton. He seems to let you severely alone.’
“我想他正在考虑，”她说。 “他把一切都考虑清楚了；他一点也不浮躁。但我已经习惯了我的信会在当天得到答复。”她立即向伊莎贝尔提议，无论如何，他们应该一起去伦敦旅行。 “如果我必须说实话，”她说道，“我在这个地方并没有看到太多东西，而且我认为你也不会看到太多东西。我什至没有见过那个贵族——他叫什么名字？——沃什伯顿勋爵。他似乎让你独自一人。

‘Lord Warburton’s coming to-morrow, I happen to know,’ replied her friend, who had received a note from the master of Lockleigh in answer to her own letter. ‘You’ll have every opportunity of turning him inside out.’
“沃伯顿勋爵明天会来，我碰巧知道，”她的朋友回答道，她收到了洛克利主人的一封回信，作为对她自己信的答复。 “你将有一切机会把他翻个底朝天。”

‘Well, he may do for one letter, but what’s one letter when you want to write fifty? I’ve described all the scenery in this vicinity and raved about all the old women and donkeys. You may say what you please, scenery doesn’t make a vital letter. I must go back to London and get some impressions of real life. I was there but three days before I came away, and that’s hardly time to get in touch.’
“好吧，他可能写一封信，但是当你想写五十封信时，一封信又算什么呢？”我描述了这附近的所有风景，并对所有的老妇人和驴子赞不绝口。你想说什么就说什么吧，风景并不是一封重要的信。我必须回到伦敦，对现实生活有一些印象。我在离开前三天就到了那里，现在几乎不是联系的时间。

As Isabel, on her journey from New York to Gardencourt, had seen even less of the British capital than this, it appeared a happy suggestion of Henrietta’s that the two should go thither on a visit of pleasure. The idea struck Isabel as charming; she was curious of the thick detail of London, which had always loomed large and rich to her. They turned over their schemes together and indulged in visions of romantic hours. They would stay at some picturesque old inn—one of the inns described by Dickens—and drive over the town in those delightful hansoms. Henrietta was a literary woman, and the great advantage of being a literary woman was that you could go everywhere and do everything. They would dine at a coffee-house and go afterwards to the play; they would frequent the Abbey and the British Museum and find out where Doctor Johnson had lived, and Goldsmith and Addison. Isabel grew eager and presently unveiled the bright vision to Ralph, who burst into a fit of laughter which scarce expressed the sympathy she had desired.
由于伊莎贝尔在从纽约到加登考特的旅途中，对英国首都的了解比这还要少，因此亨利埃塔建议两人去那里进行一次愉快的访问，这似乎是一个愉快的建议。这个想法让伊莎贝尔觉得很迷人。她对伦敦的详细情况感到好奇，伦敦对她来说一直是巨大而丰富的。他们一起修改计划，沉浸在浪漫时光的幻想中。他们会住在一些风景如画的老旅馆里——狄更斯描述过的旅馆之一——然后开着那些令人愉快的双轮马车穿过小镇。亨丽埃塔是一位文学女性，而成为一名文学女性的最大好处就是可以去任何地方，做任何事情。他们会在咖啡馆吃晚饭，然后去看戏。他们会经常去修道院和大英博物馆，找出约翰逊医生、戈德史密斯和艾迪生曾经住过的地方。伊莎贝尔变得急切起来，不久就向拉尔夫展示了明亮的景象，拉尔夫突然大笑起来，这几乎没有表达出她所渴望的同情。

‘It’s a delightful plan,’ he said. ‘I advise you to go to the Duke’s Head in Covent Garden, an easy, informal, old-fashioned place, and I’ll have you put down at my club.’
“这是一个令人愉快的计划，”他说。 “我建议你去考文特花园的公爵头，一个轻松、非正式、老式的地方，我会让你在我的俱乐部安顿下来。”

‘Do you mean it’s improper?’ Isabel asked. ‘Dear me, isn’t anything proper here? With Henrietta surely I may go anywhere; she isn’t hampered in that way. She has travelled over the whole American continent and can at least find her way about this minute island.’
“你的意思是说这不合适吗？”伊莎贝尔问道。 ‘天哪，这里有什么不对劲的地方吗？有了亨丽埃塔，我可以去任何地方；她并没有受到那样的阻碍。她走遍了整个美洲大陆，至少能在这座小岛上找到自己的路。

‘Ah then,’ said Ralph, ‘let me take advantage of her protection to go up to town as well. I may never have a chance to travel so safely!’
“啊，那么，”拉尔夫说，“让我趁她的保护也去城里吧。”我可能永远没有机会如此安全地旅行！”

Chapter 14
第14章

Miss Stackpole would have prepared to start immediately; but Isabel, as we have seen, had been notified that Lord Warburton would come again to Gardencourt, and she believed it her duty to remain there and see him. For four or five days he had made no response to her letter; then he had written, very briefly, to say he would come to luncheon two days later. There was something in these delays and postponements that touched the girl and renewed her sense of his desire to be considerate and patient, not to appear to urge her too grossly; a consideration the more studied that she was so sure he ‘really liked’ her. Isabel told her uncle she had written to him, mentioning also his intention of coming; and the old man, in consequence, left his room earlier than usual and made his appearance at the two o’clock repast. This was by no means an act of vigilance on his part, but the fruit of a benevolent belief that his being of the company might help to cover any conjoined straying away in case Isabel should give their noble visitor another hearing. That personage drove over from Lockleigh and brought the elder of his sisters with him, a measure presumably dictated by reflexions of the same order as Mr. Touchett’s. The two visitors were introduced to Miss Stackpole, who, at luncheon, occupied a seat adjoining Lord Warburton’s. Isabel, who was nervous and had no relish for the prospect of again arguing the question he had so prematurely opened, could not help admiring his good-humoured self-possession, which quite disguised the symptoms of that preoccupation with her presence it was natural she should suppose him to feel. He neither looked at her nor spoke to her, and the only sign of his emotion was that he avoided meeting her eyes. He had plenty of talk for the others, however, and he appeared to eat his luncheon with discrimination and appetite. Miss Molyneux, who had a smooth, nun-like forehead and wore a large silver cross suspended from her neck, was evidently preoccupied with Henrietta Stackpole, upon whom her eyes constantly rested in a manner suggesting a conflict between deep alienation and yearning wonder. Of the two ladies from Lockleigh she was the one Isabel had liked best; there was such a world of hereditary quiet in her. Isabel was sure moreover that her mild forehead and silver cross referred to some weird Anglican mystery—some delightful reinstitution perhaps of the quaint office of the canoness. She wondered what Miss Molyneux would think of her if she knew Miss Archer had refused her brother; and then she felt sure that Miss Molyneux would never knowthat Lord Warburton never told her such things. He was fond of her and kind to her, but on the whole he told her little. Such, at least, was Isabel’s theory; when, at table, she was not occupied in conversation she was usually occupied in forming theories about her neighbours. According to Isabel, if Miss Molyneux should ever learn what had passed between Miss Archer and Lord Warburton she would probably be shocked at such a girl’s failure to rise; or no, rather (this was our heroine’s last position) she would impute to the young American but a due consciousness of inequality.
斯塔克波尔小姐会准备立即开始；但正如我们所见，伊莎贝尔已获悉沃伯顿勋爵将再次来到花园考特，她相信自己有责任留在那里看望他。四五天来，他没有对她的信作出任何回应。然后他写了一封非常简短的信，说他将在两天后参加午餐会。这些拖延和拖延触动了女孩，让她重新感受到他希望体贴和耐心，而不是显得过于粗暴地催促她。越是研究，她就越确信他“真的喜欢”她。伊莎贝尔告诉她叔叔她已经写信给他，还提到了他来的意图。结果，老人比平常更早地离开了房间，出现在两点钟的宴会上。这绝不是他的一种警惕行为，而是一种仁慈的信念的结果，他相信自己的陪伴可能有助于掩盖任何连体的迷失，以防伊莎贝尔再次听证会他们的高贵访客。那个人从洛克利开车过来，并带来了他姐姐中的姐姐，这一措施大概是由与图切特先生相同的反应决定的。这两位访客被介绍给斯塔克波尔小姐，她在午餐时坐在沃伯顿勋爵旁边的座位上。伊莎贝尔很紧张，对再次争论他过早提出的问题不感兴趣，不禁钦佩他幽默的泰然自若，这完全掩盖了他对她的存在的全神贯注的症状，这是很自然的。应该假设他有感觉。他既没有看她，也没有和她说话，他情绪的唯一表现就是避免与她的目光对视。 然而，他对其他人有很多话要说，而且他似乎很有辨别力和胃口吃午餐。莫利纽克斯小姐有着修女般光滑的额头，脖子上挂着一个巨大的银色十字架，她显然全神贯注于亨利埃塔·斯塔克波尔，她的目光不断地停留在他身上，暗示着深深的疏远和渴望的好奇之间的冲突。在洛克利的两位女士中，她是伊莎贝尔最喜欢的一位。她身上有一种与生俱来的安静的世界。伊莎贝尔还确信，她柔和的额头和银色的十字架代表着某种奇怪的英国圣公会的神秘色彩——某种令人愉快的重建，也许是关于女牧师的古雅办公室的某种令人愉快的重建。她想知道，如果莫利纽克斯小姐知道阿切尔小姐拒绝了她的哥哥，她会怎么想？然后她确信莫利纽克斯小姐永远不会知道沃伯顿勋爵从未告诉过她这些事情。他很喜欢她，对她也很好，但总的来说，他告诉她的很少。至少伊莎贝尔的理论是这样的。当她在餐桌上没有闲聊时，她通常会忙于形成关于邻居的理论。据伊莎贝尔说，如果莫利纽克斯小姐知道阿切尔小姐和沃伯顿勋爵之间发生的事情，她可能会对这样一个女孩未能站起来感到震惊；或者不，更确切地说（这是我们女主人公的最后立场）她会归咎于年轻的美国人，但对不平等的应有意识。

Whatever Isabel might have made of her opportunities, at all events, Henrietta Stackpole was by no means disposed to neglect those in which she now found herself immersed. ‘Do you know you’re the first lord I’ve ever seen?’ she said very promptly to her neighbour. ‘I suppose you think I’m awfully benighted.’
无论伊莎贝尔如何利用她的机会，无论如何，亨丽埃塔·斯塔克波尔都决不会忽视她现在发现自己沉浸在其中的那些机会。 “你知道你是我见过的第一个领主吗？”她很快地对邻居说道。 “我想你认为我非常无知。”

‘You’ve escaped seeing some very ugly men,’ Lord Warburton answered, looking a trifle absently about the table.
“你没有见到一些非常丑陋的人，”沃伯顿勋爵回答道，心不在焉地环视桌子。

‘Are they very ugly? They try to make us believe in America that they’re all handsome and magnificent and that they wear wonderful robes and crowns.’
‘他们很丑吗？他们试图让我们相信美国，他们都是英俊而伟大的，他们穿着漂亮的长袍和王冠。

‘Ah, the robes and crowns are gone out of fashion,’ said Lord Warburton, ‘like your tomahawks and revolvers.’
“啊，长袍和王冠已经过时了，”沃伯顿勋爵说，“就像你的战斧和左轮手枪一样。”

‘I’m sorry for that; I think an aristocracy ought to be splendid,’ Henrietta declared. ‘If it’s not that, what is it?’
“我对此感到抱歉；我认为贵族应该是辉煌的。”亨利埃塔宣称。 “如果不是那个，那是什么？”

‘Oh, you know, it isn’t much, at the best,’ her neighbour allowed. ‘Won’t you have a potato?’
“哦，你知道，充其量也不算多，”她的邻居承认道。 “你不吃土豆吗？”

‘I don’t care much for these European potatoes. I shouldn’t know you from an ordinary American gentleman.’
“我不太喜欢这些欧洲土豆。我不应该把你和一位普通的美国绅士区分开来。”

‘Do talk to me as if I were one,’ said Lord Warburton. ‘I don’t see how you manage to get on without potatoes; you must find so few things to eat over here.’
“请像我是一个人一样跟我说话，”沃伯顿勋爵说。 “我不明白没有土豆你怎么活下去；你在这里一定找不到什么东西可以吃。

Henrietta was silent a little; there was a chance he was not sincere. ‘I’ve had hardly any appetite since I’ve been here,’ she went on at last; ‘so it doesn’t much matter. I don’t approve of you, you know; I feel as if I ought to tell you that.’
亨丽埃塔沉默了一会儿。他有可能并不真诚。 “自从来到这里以来，我几乎没有胃口，”她最后继续说道。 ‘所以这并不重要。我不赞成你，你知道；我觉得我应该告诉你这一点。

‘Don’t approve of me?’
“不同意我吗？”

‘Yes; I don’t suppose any one ever said such a thing to you before, did they? I don’t approve of lords as an institution. I think the world has got beyond them—far beyond.’
'是的;我想以前没有人对你说过这样的话，是吗？我不赞成领主作为一个机构。我认为世界已经超越了他们——远远超越了。

‘Oh, so do I. I don’t approve of myself in the least. Sometimes it comes over me—how I should object to myself if I were not myself, don’t you know? But that’s rather good, by the way—not to be vainglorious.’
“噢，我也是。我一点也不认可自己。”有时我会想到——如果我不是我自己，我该如何反对自己，你不知道吗？但顺便说一句，这很好——不要自负。”

‘Why don’t you give it up then?’ Miss Stackpole enquired.
“那你为什么不放弃呢？”斯塔克波尔小姐问道。

‘Give up—a-?’ asked Lord Warburton, meeting her harsh inflexion with a very mellow one.
“放弃——a——？”沃伯顿勋爵问道，用一种非常温和的语气回应她严厉的语调。

‘Give up being a lord.’
“放弃成为领主吧。”

‘Oh, I’m so little of one! One would really forget all about it if you wretched Americans were not constantly reminding one. However, I do think of giving it up, the little there is left of it, one of these days.’
‘哦，我真是太小了！如果不是你们这些可怜的美国人不断提醒的话，人们真的会忘记这一切。然而，我确实想放弃它，仅剩一点点，总有一天。

‘I should like to see you do it!’ Henrietta exclaimed rather grimly.
“我希望看到你这么做！”亨利埃塔冷酷地喊道。

‘I’ll invite you to the ceremony; we’ll have a supper and a dance.’
“我会邀请你参加仪式；我们将共进晚餐并跳舞。

‘Well,’ said Miss Stackpole, ‘I like to see all sides. I don’t approve of a privileged class, but I like to hear what they have to say for themselves.’
“嗯，”斯塔克波尔小姐说，“我喜欢看到各个方面。我不赞成特权阶层，但我喜欢听听他们为自己说些什么。

‘Mighty little, as you see!’
“如你所见，很小！”

‘I should like to draw you out a little more,’ Henrietta continued. ‘But you’re always looking away. You’re afraid of meeting my eye. I see you want to escape me.’
“我想把你再引出来一点，”亨利埃塔继续说道。 “但你总是把目光移开。你害怕与我对视。我看你想逃离我。

‘No, I’m only looking for those despised potatoes.’
“不，我只是在寻找那些被人鄙视的土豆。”

‘Please explain about that young lady—your sister—then. I don’t understand about her. Is she a Lady?’
“那么请解释一下那位年轻女士——你的妹妹——的事。”我不明白她的事。她是一位女士吗？

‘She’s a capital good girl.’
“她是个十足的好女孩。”

‘I don’t like the way you say that—as if you wanted to change the subject. Is her position inferior to yours?’
“我不喜欢你说话的方式——就好像你想改变话题一样。她的地位比你低吗？

‘We neither of us have any position to speak of; but she’s better off than I, because she has none of the bother.’
‘我们俩都没有什么地位可言；但她比我过得更好，因为她没有任何麻烦。

‘Yes, she doesn’t look as if she had much bother. I wish I had as little bother as that. You do produce quiet people over here, whatever else you may do.’
“是的，她看起来并没有太多烦恼。我希望我没有那么麻烦。无论你做什么，你都会在这里培养出安静的人。

‘Ah, you see one takes life easily, on the whole,’ said Lord Warburton. ‘And then you know we’re very dull. Ah, we can be dull when we try!’
“啊，你看，总的来说，一个人过着轻松的生活，”沃伯顿勋爵说。 ‘然后你就知道我们很无聊。啊，当我们尝试时，我们可能会变得迟钝！

‘I should advise you to try something else. I shouldn’t know what to talk to your sister about; she looks so different. Is that silver cross a badge?’
“我应该建议你尝试别的东西。我不知道该和你姐姐谈论什么；她看起来很不一样。那个银色十字是徽章吗？

‘A badge?’
“徽章？”

‘A sign of rank.’
“等级的标志。”

Lord Warburton’s glance had wandered a good deal, but at this it met the gaze of his neighbour. ‘Oh yes,’ he answered in a moment; ‘the women go in for those things. The silver cross is worn by the eldest daughters of Viscounts.’ Which was his harmless revenge for having occasionally had his credulity too easily engaged in America. After luncheon he proposed to Isabel to come into the gallery and look at the pictures; and though she knew he had seen the pictures twenty times she complied without criticizing this pretext. Her conscience now was very easy; ever since she sent him her letter she had felt particularly light of spirit. He walked slowly to the end of the gallery, staring at its contents and saying nothing; and then he suddenly broke out: ‘I hoped you wouldn’t write to me that way.’
沃伯顿勋爵的目光四处游移，但此时却与他邻居的目光相遇了。 “哦，是的，”他立刻回答道。 “女人热衷于这些事情。银十字勋章由子爵的长女佩戴。”这是他对在美国偶尔轻信他人而进行的无害报复。午餐后，他向伊莎贝尔提议去画廊看看那些画。尽管她知道他已经看过这些照片二十次了，但她还是照做了，没有批评这个借口。现在她的良心很坦然。自从她给他写信以来，她感到精神特别轻松。他慢慢地走到画廊的尽头，盯着里面的东西，什么也没说。然后他突然爆发：“我希望你不要这样给我写信。”

‘It was the only way, Lord Warburton,’ said the girl. ‘Do try and believe that.’
“这是唯一的办法，沃伯顿勋爵，”女孩说。 “请尝试并相信这一点。”

‘If I could believe it of course I should let you alone. But we can’t believe by willing it; and I confess I don’t understand. I could understand your disliking me; that I could understand well. But that you should admit you do-.’
“如果我能相信的话，我当然应该放过你。但我们不能因为愿意而相信；我承认我不明白。我能理解你不喜欢我；我很能理解。但你应该承认你确实——”

‘What have I admitted?’ Isabel interrupted, turning slightly pale.
“我承认了什么？”伊莎贝尔打断道，脸色微微苍白。

‘That you think me a good fellow; isn’t that it?’ She said nothing, and he went on: ‘You don’t seem to have any reason, and that gives me a sense of injustice.’
‘你认为我是个好人；不是吗？”她什么也没说，他接着说：“你好像没有任何理由，这让我有一种不公平的感觉。”

‘I have a reason, Lord Warburton.’ She said it in a tone that made his heart contract.
“我有一个理由，沃伯顿勋爵。”她的语气让他的心脏收缩。

‘I should like very much to know it.’
“我非常想知道。”

‘I’ll tell you some day when there’s more to show for it.’
“有一天我会告诉你，当有更多的东西可以展示时。”

‘Excuse my saying that in the mean time I must doubt of it.’
“请原谅我这么说，同时我必须对此表示怀疑。”

‘You make me very unhappy,’ said Isabel.
“你让我很不高兴，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘I’m not sorry for that; it may help you to know how I feel. Will you kindly answer me a question?’ Isabel made no audible assent, but he apparently saw in her eyes something that gave him courage to go on. ‘Do you prefer some one else?’
“我对此并不感到抱歉；这可能会帮助你了解我的感受。你能回答我一个问题吗？”伊莎贝尔没有发出同意的声音，但他显然在她的眼中看到了一些让他有勇气继续说下去的东西。 “你更喜欢别的吗？”

‘That’s a question I’d rather not answer.’
“这是一个我不想回答的问题。”

‘Ah, you do then!’ her suitor murmured with bitterness.
“啊，那你就知道了！”她的追求者苦涩地低声说道。

The bitterness touched her, and she cried out: ‘You’re mistaken! I don’t.’
痛苦触动了她，她大声喊道：“你错了！我不。'

He sat down on a bench, unceremoniously, doggedly, like a man in trouble; leaning his elbows on his knees and staring at the floor. ‘I can’t even be glad of that,’ he said at last, throwing himself back against the wall; ‘for that would be an excuse.’
他毫不客气、顽强地坐在长凳上，就像一个陷入困境的人一样。将手肘靠在膝盖上，盯着地板。 “我什至对此都高兴不起来，”他最后说道，靠在墙上。 “因为那会是一个借口。”

She raised her eyebrows in surprise. ‘An excuse? Must I excuse myself?’
她惊讶地扬起了眉毛。 '一个借口？我必须原谅自己吗？

He paid, however, no answer to the question. Another idea had come into his head. ‘Is it my political opinions? Do you think I go too far?’
然而，他没有回答这个问题。他的脑海里浮现出另一个想法。 ‘这是我的政治观点吗？你认为我太过分了吗？

‘I can’t object to your political opinions, because I don’t understand them.’
“我不能反对你的政治观点，因为我不理解它们。”

‘You don’t care what I think!’ he cried, getting up. ‘It’s all the same to you.
“你不在乎我怎么想！”他站起来喊道。 ‘这对你来说都一样。

Isabel walked to the other side of the gallery and stood there showing him her charming back, her light slim figure, the length of her white neck as she bent her head, and the density of her dark braids. She stopped in front of a small picture as if for the purpose of examining it; and there was something so young and free in her movement that her very pliancy seemed to mock at him. Her eyes, however, saw nothing; they had suddenly been suffused with tears. In a moment he followed her, and by this time she had brushed her tears away; but when she turned round her face was pale and the expression of her eyes strange. ‘That reason that I wouldn’t tell you—I’ll tell it you after all. It’s that I can’t escape my fate.’
伊莎贝尔走到画廊的另一边，站在那里，向他展示她迷人的背影、轻盈苗条的身材、低下头时雪白的脖子的长度，以及浓密的黑色辫子。她在一幅小画前停了下来，似乎是为了审视它。她的动作显得如此年轻和自由，以至于她的柔顺似乎在嘲笑他。然而她的眼睛却什么也没看见；他们突然泪流满面。一会儿他就跟着她了，这时她已经擦掉了眼泪。但当她转过身时，她脸色苍白，眼神怪异。 ‘我不告诉你的原因——我终究会告诉你的。这就是我无法逃脱我的命运。

‘Your fate?’
'你的命运？'

‘I should try to escape it if I were to marry you.’
“如果我要嫁给你，我就应该设法逃避它。”

‘I don’t understand. Why should not that be your fate as well as anything else?’
'我不明白。为什么这不应该是你的命运以及其他事情呢？

‘Because it’s not,’ said Isabel femininely. ‘I know it’s not. It’s not my fate to give up—I know it can’t be.’
“因为事实并非如此，”伊莎贝尔阴柔地说道。 ‘我知道不是这样。放弃不是我的命运——我知道不可能。

Poor Lord Warburton stared, an interrogative point in either eye. ‘Do you call marrying me giving up?’
可怜的沃伯顿勋爵凝视着，两只眼睛里都带着疑问。 “你说嫁给我就是放弃吗？”

‘Not in the usual sense. It’s getting—getting—getting a great deal. But it’s giving up other chances.’
‘不是通常意义上的。它正在得到——得到——得到很多。但它放弃了其他机会。”

‘Other chances for what?’
“还有什么机会？”

‘I don’t mean chances to marry,’ said Isabel, her colour quickly coming back to her. And then she stopped, looking down with a deep frown, as if it were hopeless to attempt to make her meaning clear.
“我指的不是结婚的机会。”伊莎贝尔说道，她的脸色很快就恢复了。然后她停了下来，低下头，深深地皱着眉头，似乎无法弄清楚她的意思。

‘I don’t think it presumptuous in me to suggest that you’ll gain more than you’ll lose,’ her companion observed.
“我认为我认为你得到的会比失去的多，这并不自以为是，”她的同伴评论道。

‘I can’t escape unhappiness,’ said Isabel. ‘In marrying you I shall be trying to.’
“我无法逃避不幸，”伊莎贝尔说。 “在嫁给你的过程中，我会尽力做到这一点。”

‘I don’t know whether you’d try to, but you certainly would: that I must in candour admit!’ he exclaimed with an anxious laugh.
“我不知道你是否会尝试这样做，但你肯定会这样做：我必须坦白地承认！”他焦急地笑着喊道。

‘I mustn’t—I can’t!’ cried the girl.
“我不能——我不能！”女孩叫道。

‘Well, if you’re bent on being miserable I don’t see why you should make me so. Whatever charms a life of misery may have for you, it has none for me.’
“好吧，如果你一心想变得痛苦，我不明白你为什么要让我如此。无论痛苦的生活对你有什么魅力，对我来说却毫无魅力。

‘I’m not bent on a life of misery,’ said Isabel. ‘I’ve always been intensely determined to be happy, and I’ve often believed I should be. I’ve told people that; you can ask them. But it comes over me every now and then that I can never be happy in any extraordinary way; not by turning away, by separating myself.’
“我并不想过痛苦的生活，”伊莎贝尔说。 “我一直下定决心要快乐，而且我常常相信我应该快乐。我已经告诉过人们了；你可以问他们。但我时不时地想到，我永远不可能以任何非凡的方式快乐；不是转身离开，而是将自己分开。

‘By separating yourself from what?’
“通过将自己与什么分开？”

‘From life. From the usual chances and dangers, from what most people know and suffer.’
‘来自生活。来自通常的机会和危险，来自大多数人所知道和遭受的痛苦。

Lord Warburton broke into a smile that almost denoted hope. ‘Why, my dear Miss Archer,’ he began to explain with the most considerate eagerness, ‘I don’t offer you any exoneration from life or from any chances or dangers whatever. I wish I could; depend upon it I would! For what do you take me, pray? Heaven help me, I’m not the Emperor of China! All I offer you is the chance of taking the common lot in a comfortable sort of way. The common lot? Why, I’m devoted to the common lot! Strike an alliance with me, and I promise you that you shall have plenty of it. You shall separate from nothing whatever—not even from your friend Miss Stackpole.’
沃伯顿勋爵绽放出几乎代表着希望的微笑。 “为什么，我亲爱的阿切尔小姐，”他开始以最体贴热切的态度解释道，“我不会为你提供任何免于生命或任何机会或危险的宽恕。我希望我能;我就靠它了！祈祷你拿我做什么？老天保佑我吧，我不是中国的皇帝！我为您提供的只是以一种舒适的方式获得公共土地的机会。共同地段？为什么，我致力于共同事业！与我结盟，我向你保证，你将拥有很多。你不会与任何东西分离——甚至不会与你的朋友斯塔克波尔小姐分离。

‘She’d never approve of it,’ said Isabel, trying to smile and take advantage of this side-issue; despising herself too, not a little, for doing so.
“她永远不会同意，”伊莎贝尔说道，试图微笑着利用这个附带问题。也因为这样做而鄙视自己。

‘Are we speaking of Miss Stackpole?’ his lordship asked impatiently. ‘I never saw a person judge things on such theoretic grounds.’
“我们说的是斯塔克波尔小姐吗？”勋爵不耐烦地问道。 “我从未见过有人根据如此理论来判断事物。”

‘Now I suppose you’re speaking of me,’ said Isabel with humility; and she turned away again, for she saw Miss Molyneux enter the gallery, accompanied by Henrietta and by Ralph.
“现在我想你是在说我，”伊莎贝尔谦卑地说。她又转过身去，因为她看到莫利纽克斯小姐在亨利埃塔和拉尔夫的陪同下走进了画廊。

Lord Warburton’s sister addressed him with a certain timidity and reminded him she ought to return home in time for tea, as she was expecting company to partake of it. He made no answer—apparently not having heard her; he was preoccupied, and with good reason. Miss Molyneux—as if he had been Royalty—stood like a lady-in-waiting.
沃伯顿勋爵的姐姐对他说话时显得有些胆怯，并提醒他她应该及时回家喝茶，因为她期待有人来喝茶。他没有回答——显然没有听到她的话。他全神贯注，而且有充分的理由。莫利纽克斯小姐——就好像他是皇室成员一样——站得像个侍女。

‘Well, I never, Miss Molyneux!’ said Henrietta Stackpole. ‘If I wanted to go he’d have to go. If I wanted my brother to do a thing he’d have to do it.’
“嗯，我从来没有，莫利纽克斯小姐！”亨丽埃塔·斯塔克波尔说。 “如果我想走，他就必须走。如果我想让我哥哥做一件事，他就必须这么做。

‘Oh, Warburton does everything one wants,’ Miss Molyneux answered with a quick, shy laugh. ‘How very many pictures you have!’ she went on, turning to Ralph.
“哦，沃伯顿做任何人想做的事，”莫利纽克斯小姐迅速、害羞地笑了一声。 “你有多少照片啊！”她转向拉尔夫继续说道。

‘They look a good many, because they’re all put together,’ said Ralph. ‘But it’s really a bad way.’
“它们看起来很多，因为它们都放在一起，”拉尔夫说。 “但这确实是一个糟糕的方法。”

‘Oh, I think it’s so nice. I wish we had a gallery at Lockleigh. I’m so very fond of pictures,’ Miss Molyneux went on, persistently, to Ralph, as if she were afraid Miss Stackpole would address her again. Henrietta appeared at once to fascinate and to frighten her.
‘哦，我觉得这真是太好了。我希望我们在洛克利有一个画廊。我非常喜欢照片。”莫利纽克斯小姐坚持不懈地对拉尔夫说道，仿佛她害怕斯塔克波尔小姐会再次对她说话。亨丽埃塔的出现既让她着迷又让她害怕。

‘Ah yes, pictures are very convenient,’ said Ralph, who appeared to know better what style of reflexion was acceptable to her.
“啊，是的，拍照非常方便，”拉尔夫说，他似乎更知道她可以接受哪种反应方式。

‘They’re so very pleasant when it rains,’ the young lady continued. ‘It has rained of late so very often.’
“下雨的时候它们非常令人愉快，”这位年轻女士继续说道。 “最近经常下雨。”

‘I’m sorry you’re going away, Lord Warburton,’ said Henrietta. ‘I wanted to get a great deal more out of you.’
“沃伯顿勋爵，我很遗憾你要离开，”亨利埃塔说。 “我想从你身上得到更多。”

‘I’m not going away,’ Lord Warburton answered.
“我不会走，”沃伯顿勋爵回答道。

‘Your sister says you must. In America the gentlemen obey the ladies.’
“你姐姐说你必须这样做。在美国，绅士服从女士。”

‘I’m afraid we have some people to tea,’ said Miss Molyneux, looking at her brother.
“恐怕我们有人要喝茶，”莫利纽克斯小姐看着她的哥哥说道。

‘Very good, my dear. We’ll go.’
‘很好，亲爱的。我们会去。'

‘I hoped you would resist!’ Henrietta exclaimed. ‘I wanted to see what Miss Molyneux would do.’
“我希望你能反抗！”亨利埃塔喊道。 “我想看看莫利纽克斯小姐会做什么。”

‘I never do anything,’ said this young lady.
“我从不做任何事情，”这位年轻女士说道。

‘I suppose in your position it’s sufficient for you to exist!’ Miss Stackpole returned. ‘I should like very much to see you at home.’
“我想，在你的位置上，你的存在就足够了！”斯塔克波尔小姐回答道。 “我很想在家里见到你。”

‘You must come to Lockleigh again,’ said Miss Molyneux, very sweetly, to Isabel, ignoring this remark of Isabel’s friend.
“你必须再来洛克利，”莫利纽克斯小姐非常甜蜜地对伊莎贝尔说，忽略了伊莎贝尔朋友的这句话。

Isabel looked into her quiet eyes a moment, and for that moment seemed to see in their grey depths the reflexion of everything she had rejected in rejecting Lord Warburton—the peace, the kindness, the honour, the possessions, a deep security and a great exclusion. She kissed Miss Molyneux and then she said: ‘I’m afraid I can never come again.’
伊莎贝尔凝视了她平静的眼睛一会儿，在那一刻，在那一刻，她似乎在灰色的深处看到了她在拒绝沃伯顿勋爵时所拒绝的一切的反映——和平、仁慈、荣誉、财产、深深的安全感和伟大的安全感。排除。她吻了莫利纽克斯小姐，然后说道：“恐怕我再也不能来了。”

‘Never again?’
'再也不？'

‘I’m afraid I’m going away.’
“恐怕我要走了。”

‘Oh, I’m so very sorry,’ said Miss Molyneux. ‘I think that’s so very wrong of you.’
“哦，我非常抱歉，”莫利纽克斯小姐说。 “我认为你的想法非常错误。”

Lord Warburton watched this little passage; then he turned away and stared at a picture. Ralph, leaning against the rail before the picture with his hands in his pockets, had for the moment been watching him.
沃伯顿勋爵注视着这段小段落；然后他转过身去，盯着一张照片。拉尔夫双手插在口袋里，靠在画前的栏杆上，此刻一直在看着他。

‘I should like to see you at home,’ said Henrietta, whom Lord Warburton found beside him. ‘I should like an hour’s talk with you; there are a great many questions I wish to ask you.’
“我想在家里见到你，”沃伯顿勋爵发现亨利埃塔就在他身边，他说道。 “我想和你聊一个小时；我有很多问题想问你。

‘I shall be delighted to see you,’ the proprietor of Lockleigh answered; ‘but I’m certain not to be able to answer many of your questions. When will you come?’
“我很高兴见到你，”洛克利的老板回答道。 “但我肯定无法回答你的很多问题。你什么时候来？'

‘Whenever Miss Archer will take me. We’re thinking of going to London, but we’ll go and see you first. I’m determined to get some satisfaction out of you.’
“每当阿切尔小姐带我去的时候。我们想去伦敦，但我们会先去见你。我决心从你那里得到一些满足。

‘If it depends upon Miss Archer I’m afraid you won’t get much. She won’t come to Lockleigh; she doesn’t like the place.’
“如果这取决于阿切尔小姐，恐怕你不会得到太多。”她不会来洛克利；她不会来洛克利。她不喜欢这个地方。

‘She told me it was lovely!’ said Henrietta.
“她告诉我这很可爱！”亨利埃塔说。

Lord Warburton hesitated. ‘She won’t come, all the same. You had better come alone,’ he added.
沃伯顿勋爵犹豫了。 “不管怎样，她不会来。”你最好一个人来，”他补充道。

Henrietta straightened herself, and her large eyes expanded. ‘Would you make that remark to an English lady?’ she enquired with soft asperity.
亨丽埃塔直起身子，睁大了她的大眼睛。 “你会对一位英国女士说这种话吗？”她轻声严厉地问道。

Lord Warburton stared. ‘Yes, if I liked her enough.’
沃伯顿勋爵凝视着。 “是的，如果我足够喜欢她的话。”

‘You’d be careful not to like her enough. If Miss Archer won’t visit your place again it’s because she doesn’t want to take me. I know what she thinks of me, and I suppose you think the same—that I oughtn’t to bring in individuals.’ Lord Warburton was at a loss; he had not been made acquainted with Miss Stackpole’s professional character and failed to catch her allusion. ‘Miss Archer has been warning you!’ she therefore went on.
‘你要小心，不要太喜欢她。如果阿切尔小姐不再来你家，那是因为她不想带我。我知道她对我的看法，我想你也这么认为——我不应该带个人进来。他并不了解斯塔克波尔小姐的职业性格，也没有听出她的暗示。 “阿切尔小姐一直在警告你！”她继续说道。

‘Warning me?’
“警告我？”

‘Isn’t that why she came off alone with you here—to put you on your guard?’
“这难道不是她单独和你一起来到这里的原因——让你提高警惕吗？”

‘Oh dear, no,’ said Lord Warburton brazenly; ‘our talk had no such solemn character as that.’
“天啊，不，”沃伯顿勋爵厚颜无耻地说。 “我们的谈话没有那么严肃。”

‘Well, you’ve been on your guard—intensely. I suppose it’s natural to you; that’s just what I wanted to observe. And so, too, Miss Molyneux—she wouldn’t commit herself. You have been warned, anyway,’ Henrietta continued, addressing this young lady; ‘but for you it wasn’t necessary.’
“好吧，你一直保持着警惕——非常强烈。我想这对你来说很自然；这正是我想观察的。同样，莫利纽克斯小姐——她也不会做出承诺。无论如何，你已经被警告过了，”亨利埃塔继续说道，对这位年轻女士说道。 “但对你来说没有必要。”

‘I hope not,’ said Miss Molyneux vaguely.
“我希望不会，”莫利纽克斯小姐含糊地说。

‘Miss Stackpole takes notes,’ Ralph soothingly explained. ‘She’s a great satirist; she sees through us all and she works us up.’
“斯塔克波尔小姐记笔记，”拉尔夫安慰地解释道。 “她是一位伟大的讽刺作家；她看透我们所有人，并激励我们。”

‘Well, I must say I never have had such a collection of had material!’ Henrietta declared, looking from Isabel to Lord Warburton and from this nobleman to his sister and to Ralph. ‘There’s something the matter with you all; you’re as dismal as if you had got a bad cable.’
“好吧，我必须说，我从来没有收集过如此丰富的材料！”亨利埃塔宣称，他的目光从伊莎贝尔转向沃伯顿勋爵，再从这位贵族转向他的妹妹和拉尔夫。 “你们都出了点问题；你就像你的电缆坏了一样沮丧。

‘You do see through us, Miss Stackpole,’ said Ralph in a low tone, giving her a little intelligent nod as he led the party out of the gallery. ‘There’s something the matter with us all.’
“你确实看穿了我们，斯塔克波尔小姐，”拉尔夫低声说道，一边带着大家走出画廊，一边明智地点了点头。 “我们大家都有问题。”

Isabel came behind these two; Miss Molyneux, who decidedly liked her immensely, had taken her arm, to walk beside her over the polished floor. Lord Warburton strolled on the other side with his hands behind him and his eyes lowered. For some moments he said nothing; and then, ‘Is it true you’re going to London?’ he asked.
伊莎贝尔走在两人后面。莫利纽克斯小姐显然非常喜欢她，挽着她的胳膊，和她一起走在抛光的地板上。沃伯顿勋爵双手放在身后，垂着眼睛在另一边漫步。有一段时间他什么也没说。然后，“你真的要去伦敦吗？”他问道。

‘I believe it has been arranged.’
“我相信这已经安排好了。”

‘And when shall you come back?’
“那你什么时候回来？”

‘In a few days; but probably for a very short time. I’m going to Paris with my aunt.’
'在几天内;但可能持续很短的时间。我要和我姨妈去巴黎。”

‘When, then, shall I see you again?’
“那我什么时候才能再见到你呢？”

‘Not for a good while,’ said Isabel. ‘But some day or other, I hope.’
“很长一段时间都不会，”伊莎贝尔说。 “但我希望有一天。”

‘Do you really hope it?’
“你真的希望如此吗？”

‘Very much.’
'非常。'

He went a few steps in silence; then he stopped and put out his hand. ‘Good-bye.’
他默默地走了几步；然后他停下来伸出手。 '再见。'

‘Good-bye,’ said Isabel.
“再见，”伊莎贝尔说。

Miss Molyneux kissed her again, and she let the two depart. After it, without rejoining Henrietta and Ralph, she retreated to her own room; in which apartment, before dinner, she was found by Mrs. Touchett, who had stopped on her way to the saloon. ‘I may as well tell you,’ said that lady, ‘that your uncle has informed me of your relations with Lord Warburton.’
莫利纽克斯小姐再次吻了她，然后她让两人离开了。之后，她没有再与亨利埃塔和拉尔夫会合，而是回到了自己的房间。晚饭前，在去酒吧的途中，图切特夫人在这间公寓里发现了她。 “我不妨告诉你，”那位女士说，“你叔叔已经告诉我你和沃伯顿勋爵的关系了。”

Isabel considered. ‘Relations? They’re hardly relations. That’s the strange part of it: he has seen me but three or four times.’
伊莎贝尔想了想。 ‘关系？他们几乎不是亲戚。这就是奇怪的地方：他只见过我三四次。

‘Why did you tell your uncle rather than me?’ Mrs. Touchett dispassionately asked.
“你为什么告诉你叔叔而不是我？”图切特夫人冷静地问道。

Again the girl hesitated. ‘Because he knows Lord Warburton better.’
女孩又犹豫了。 “因为他更了解沃伯顿勋爵。”

‘Yes, but I know you better.’
“是的，但我更了解你。”

‘I’m not sure of that,’ said Isabel, smiling.
“我不确定，”伊莎贝尔微笑着说道。

‘Neither am I, after all; especially when you give me that rather conceited look. One would think you were awfully pleased with yourself and had carried off a prize! I suppose that when you refuse an offer like Lord Warburton’s it’s because you expect to do something better.’
“毕竟我也不是；尤其是当你给我那种相当自负的表情时。人们会认为你对自己非常满意并且获得了奖品！我想当你拒绝沃伯顿勋爵这样的提议时，是因为你期望做得更好。

‘Ah, my uncle didn’t say that!’ cried Isabel, smiling still.
“啊，我叔叔没这么说！”伊莎贝尔仍然微笑着喊道。

Chapter 15
第15章

It had been arranged that the two young ladies should proceed to London under Ralph’s escort, though Mrs. Touchett looked with little favour on the plan. It was just the sort of plan, she said, that Miss Stackpole would be sure to suggest, and she enquired if the correspondent of the Interviewer was to take the party to stay at a boarding-house.
已安排两位年轻女士在拉尔夫的护送下前往伦敦，尽管图切特夫人对这个计划并不赞成。她说，这正是斯塔克波尔小姐肯定会建议的那种计划，她询问《采访者》的记者是否要带着聚会住在寄宿处。

‘I don’t care where she takes us to stay, so long as there’s local colour,’ said Isabel. ‘That’s what we’re going to London for.’
“我不在乎她带我们去哪里，只要有当地色彩就行，”伊莎贝尔说。 “这就是我们去伦敦的目的。”

‘I suppose that after a girl has refused an English lord she may do anything,’ her aunt rejoined. ‘After that one needn’t stand on trifles.’
“我想，在一个女孩拒绝了一位英国勋爵之后，她可以做任何事情，”她的姨妈回答道。 “从此以后，人们就不必再为琐事而烦恼了。”

‘Should you have liked me to marry Lord Warburton?’ Isabel enquired.
“你应该希望我嫁给沃伯顿勋爵吗？”伊莎贝尔问道。

‘Of course I should.’
“我当然应该。”

‘I thought you disliked the English so much.’
“我以为你很不喜欢英国人。”

‘So I do; but it’s all the greater reason for making use of them.’
“我也是这样想的；但这是利用它们的更大理由。”

‘Is that your idea of marriage?’ And Isabel ventured to add that her aunt appeared to her to have made very little use of Mr. Touchett.
“这就是你对婚姻的看法吗？”伊莎贝尔大胆地补充道，在她看来，她的姨妈很少利用图切特先生。

‘Your uncle’s not an English nobleman,’ said Mrs. Touchett, ‘though even if he had been I should still probably have taken up my residence in Florence.’
“你叔叔不是英国贵族，”图切特夫人说，“但即使他是，我也可能会住在佛罗伦萨。”

‘Do you think Lord Warburton could make me any better than I am?’ the girl asked with some animation. ‘I don’t mean I’m too good to improve. I mean—I mean that I don’t love Lord Warburton enough to marry him.’
“你认为沃伯顿勋爵能让我变得比现在更好吗？”女孩兴奋地问道。 “我并不是说我太好了而无法进步。我的意思是——我的意思是我还不够爱沃伯顿勋爵而嫁给他。

‘You did right to refuse him then,’ said Mrs. Touchett in her smallest, sparest voice. ‘Only, the next great offer you get, I hope you’ll manage to come up to your standard.’
“那么你拒绝他是对的，”图切特太太用她最小、最朴素的声音说道。 “只是，你收到的下一份好工作，我希望你能达到你的标准。”

‘We had better wait till the offer comes before we talk about it. I hope very much I may have no more offers for the present. They upset me completely.’
“我们最好等到报价到来后再讨论。我非常希望目前没有更多的报价。他们让我彻底心烦意乱。

‘You probably won’t be troubled with them if you adopt permanently the Bohemian manner of life. However, I’ve promised Ralph not to criticize.’
“如果你永久采用波西米亚的生活方式，你可能不会被它们困扰。不过，我已经向拉尔夫保证不会批评。”

‘I’ll do whatever Ralph says is right,’ Isabel returned. ‘I’ve unbounded confidence in Ralph.’
“拉尔夫说对的事我都会做。”伊莎贝尔回答道。 “我对拉尔夫充满信心。”

‘His mother’s much obliged to you!’ this lady dryly laughed.
“他母亲非常感谢你！”这位女士干笑道。

‘It seems to me indeed she ought to feel it!’ Isabel irrepressibly answered.
“在我看来，她确实应该感受到它！”伊莎贝尔抑制不住地回答。

Ralph had assured her that there would be no violation of decency in their paying a visit—the little party of three—to the sights of the metropolis; but Mrs. Touchett took a different view. Like many ladies of her country who had lived a long time in Europe, she had completely lost her native tact on such points, and in her reaction, not in itself deplorable, against the liberty allowed to young persons beyond the seas, had fallen into gratuitous and exaggerated scruples. Ralph accompanied their visitors to town and established them at a quiet inn in a street that ran at right angles to Piccadilly. His first idea had been to take them to his father’s house in Winchester Square, a large, dull mansion which at this period of the year was shrouded in silence and brown holland; but he bethought himself that, the cook being at Gardencourt, there was no one in the house to get them their meals, and Pratt’s Hotel accordingly became their resting-place. Ralph, on his side, found quarters in Winchester Square, having a ‘den’ there of which he was very fond and being familiar with deeper fears than that of a cold kitchen. He availed himself largely indeed of the resources of Pratt’s Hotel, beginning his day with an early visit to his fellow travellers, who had Mr. Pratt in person, in a large bulging white waistcoat, to remove their dishcovers. Ralph turned up, as he said, after breakfast, and the little party made out a scheme of entertainment for the day. As London wears in the month of September a face blank but for its smears of prior service, the young man, who occasionally took an apologetic tone, was obliged to remind his companion, to Miss Stackpole’s high derision, that there wasn’t a creature in town.
拉尔夫向她保证，他们（三人的小聚会）参观这座大都市的景点不会违反礼仪。但图切特夫人持不同观点。就像她祖国的许多在欧洲生活了很长时间的女士一样，她在这些问题上完全失去了她天生的机智，她对给予海外年轻人的自由的反应本身并不可悲，她已经陷入了困境。无端而夸张的顾忌。拉尔夫陪同他们的客人进城，并在一条与皮卡迪利大街成直角的街道上的一家安静的旅馆里安置了他们。他的第一个想法是带他们去他父亲位于温彻斯特广场的房子，那是一座又大又沉闷的宅邸，每年的这个时候都笼罩在寂静和棕色的荷兰气氛中。但他自己想，厨师在花园庭院，家里没有人给他们做饭，普拉特旅馆也就成了他们的休息地。拉尔夫则在温彻斯特广场找到了住所，在那里有一个他非常喜欢的“巢穴”，并且熟悉比冰冷的厨房更深的恐惧。他确实很大程度上利用了普拉特酒店的资源，一开始他的一天就早早地拜访了其他旅伴，穿着一件宽大的白色背心的普拉特先生亲自为他们脱掉了餐具。正如拉尔夫所说，早餐后他出现了，这一小群人制定了当天的娱乐计划。九月份的伦敦，除了先前服务的污点外，脸上都是一片茫然，这位年轻人偶尔会带着歉意的语气，不得不提醒他的同伴，斯塔克波尔小姐高度嘲笑，没有一个生物城里。

‘I suppose you mean the aristocracy are absent,’ Henrietta answered; ‘but I don’t think you could have a better proof that if they were absent altogether they wouldn’t be missed. It seems to me the place is about as full as it can be. There’s no one here, of course, but three or four millions of people. What is it you call them—the lower-middle class? They’re only the population of London, and that’s of no consequence.’
“我想你的意思是贵族不存在，”亨利埃塔回答道。 “但我不认为你能有更好的证据证明，如果他们完全缺席，他们就不会被错过。”在我看来，这个地方已经满了。当然，这里没有人，但是有三四百万人。你怎么称呼他们——中下阶层？他们只是伦敦的人口，这没有什么影响。”

Ralph declared that for him the aristocracy left no void that Miss Stackpole herself didn’t fill, and that a more contented man was nowhere at that moment to be found. In this he spoke the truth, for the stale September days, in the huge half-empty town, had a charm wrapped in them as a coloured gem might be wrapped in a dusty cloth. When he went home at night to the empty house in Winchester Square, after a chain of hours with his comparatively ardent friends, he wandered into the big dusky dining-room, where the candle he took from the hall-table, after letting himself in, constituted the only illumination. The square was still, the house was still; when he raised one of the windows of the dining-room to let in the air he heard the slow creak of the boots of a lone constable. His own step, in the empty place, seemed loud and sonorous; some of the carpets had been raised, and whenever he moved he roused a melancholy echo. He sat down in one of the armchairs; the big dark dining table twinkled here and there in the small candle-light; the pictures on the wall, all of them very brown, looked vague and incoherent. There was a ghostly presence as of dinners long since digested, of table-talk that had lost its actuality. This hint of the supernatural perhaps had something to do with the fact that his imagination took a flight and that he remained in his chair a long time beyond the hour at which he should have been in bed; doing nothing, not even reading the evening paper. I say he did nothing, and I maintain the phrase in the face of the fact that he thought at these moments of Isabel. To think of Isabel could only be for him an idle pursuit, leading to nothing and profiting little to any one. His cousin had not yet seemed to him so charming as during these days spent in sounding, tourist-fashion, the deeps and shallows of the metropolitan element. Isabel was full of premises, conclusions, emotions; if she had come in search of local colour she found it everywhere. She asked more questions than he could answer, and launched brave theories, as to historic cause and social effect, that he was equally unable to accept or to refute. The party went more than once to the British Museum and to that brighter palace of art which reclaims for antique variety so large an area of a monotonous suburb; they spent a morning in the Abbey and went on a penny-steamer to the Tower; they looked at pictures both in public and private collections and sat on various occasions beneath the great trees in Kensington Gardens. Henrietta proved an indestructible sight-seer and a more lenient judge than Ralph had ventured to hope. She had indeed many disappointments, and London at large suffered from her vivid remembrance of the strong points of the American civic idea; but she made the best of its dingy dignities and only heaved an occasional sigh and uttered a desultory ‘Well!’ which led no further and lost itself in retrospect. The truth was that, as she said herself, she was not in her element. ‘I’ve not a sympathy with inanimate objects,’ she remarked to Isabel at the National Gallery; and she continued to suffer from the meagreness of the glimpse that had as yet been vouchsafed to her of the inner life. Landscapes by Turner and Assyrian bulls were a poor substitute for the literary dinner-parties at which she had hoped to meet the genius and renown of Great Britain.
拉尔夫宣称，对他来说，贵族阶层没有留下斯塔克波尔小姐本人无法填补的空白，而此时此刻，找不到比他更满足的人了。他说的是真话，因为在这个半空荡荡的大城镇里，阴郁的九月日子里包裹着一种魅力，就像彩色宝石包裹在布满灰尘的布里一样。晚上，他回到温彻斯特广场空荡荡的房子里，与相对热心的朋友待了几个小时后，他漫步走进昏暗的大餐厅，进门后，他从大厅的桌子上拿走了蜡烛。 ，构成了唯一的照明。广场静悄悄的，房子也静悄悄的；当他打开餐厅的一扇窗户让空气流通时，他听到一名孤独的警察的靴子发出缓慢的吱吱声。他自己的脚步，在空旷的地方，显得响亮而铿锵；有些地毯已经升起，每当他移动时，都会引起忧郁的回响。他在一张扶手椅上坐下来。昏暗的大餐桌在小小的烛光下闪烁着光芒。墙上的画全都是棕色的，看起来模糊又不连贯。那里有一种幽灵般的存在，就像早已消化的晚餐一样，餐桌上的谈话也失去了现实性。这种超自然的暗示也许与以下事实有关：他的想象力飞速发展，他在椅子上呆了很长时间，超出了他应该上床睡觉的时间。什么都不做，连晚报也不看。我说他什么也没做，面对他在这些时刻想到伊莎贝尔的事实，我保留了这句话。对他来说，想到伊莎贝尔只能是一种徒劳的追求，不会带来任何结果，对任何人来说也没有什么好处。 在他看来，他的表弟还没有像这些天在大都市元素的深处和浅滩中度过的那样迷人。伊莎贝尔充满了前提、结论和情感。如果她是来寻找当地色彩的话，她会发现它无处不在。她提出的问题超出了他的回答能力，并提出了关于历史原因和社会影响的大胆理论，而他同样无法接受或反驳。一行人不止一次去了大英博物馆和那座更明亮的艺术宫殿，这里在一个单调的郊区中回收了如此大面积的古董品种。他们在修道院待了一个上午，然后乘坐便士轮船前往伦敦塔。他们观看公共和私人收藏的画作，并在不同场合坐在肯辛顿花园的大树下。事实证明，亨丽埃塔是一位坚不可摧的观察家，也是一位比拉尔夫大胆希望的更宽容的法官。她确实有很多失望，整个伦敦都因她对美国公民理念的长处的生动记忆而感到痛苦。但她充分利用了这种肮脏的尊严，只是偶尔叹了口气，断断续续地说了一声“好吧！”，但没有再继续下去，而是陷入了回忆之中。事实是，正如她自己所说，她不适合自己。 “我对无生命的物体没有同情心，”她在国家美术馆对伊莎贝尔说道；她继续为自己内心生活的一瞥而感到痛苦。特纳和亚述公牛的风景画无法替代文学晚宴，她希望在文学晚宴上结识英国的天才和名声。

‘Where are your public men, where are your men and women of intellect?’ she enquired of Ralph, standing in the middle of Trafalgar Square as if she had supposed this to be a place where she would naturally meet a few. ‘That’s one of them on the top of the column, you say—Lord Nelson? Was he a lord too? Wasn’t he high enough, that they had to stick him a hundred feet in the air? That’s the past—I don’t care about the past; I want to see some of the leading minds of the present. I won’t say of the future, because I don’t believe much in your future.’ Poor Ralph had few leading minds among his acquaintance and rarely enjoyed the pleasure of button-holing a celebrity; a state of things which appeared to Miss Stackpole to indicate a deplorable want of enterprise. ‘If I were on the other side I should call,’ she said, ‘and tell the gentleman, whoever he might be, that I had heard a great deal about him and had come to see for myself. But I gather from what you say that this is not the custom here. You seem to have plenty of meaningless customs, but none of those that would help along. We are in advance, certainly. I suppose I shall have to give up the social side altogether”; and Henrietta, though she went about with her guidebook and pencil and wrote a letter to the Interviewer about the Tower (in which she described the execution of Lady Jane Grey), had a sad sense of falling below her mission.
“你们的公共人物在哪里，你们的知识分子在哪里？”她站在特拉法加广场中央，向拉尔夫询问，仿佛她以为这是她自然会遇到一些人的地方。 “你是说，那是柱子顶部的其中一个——纳尔逊勋爵？他也是领主吗？难道他还不够高，他们必须把他粘在一百英尺高的空中吗？那就是过去了——我不在乎过去；我想见见当今的一些领军人物。我不会谈论未来，因为我对你的未来不太相信。 可怜的拉尔夫在他的熟人中几乎没有什么领袖人物，也很少享受到扣扣名人的乐趣；在斯塔克波尔小姐看来，这种状况表明她非常缺乏进取心。 “如果我在另一边，我应该打电话，”她说，“告诉这位先生，无论他是谁，我听说过很多关于他的事情，所以特意过来看看。”但从你所说的情况来看，这不是这里的习俗。你们似乎有很多无意义的习俗，但没有一个能有帮助。当然，我们已经提前了。我想我将不得不完全放弃社交方面”；亨丽埃塔虽然拿着旅游指南和铅笔四处走动，并给采访者写了一封关于塔楼的信（在信中她描述了简·格雷夫人的处决），但她还是有一种未能完成使命的悲伤感。

The incident that had preceded Isabel’s departure from Gardencourt left a painful trace in our young woman’s mind: when she felt again in her face, as from a recurrent wave, the cold breath of her last suitor’s surprise, she could only muffle her head till the air cleared. She could not have done less than what she did; this was certainly true. But her necessity, all the same, had been as graceless as some physical act in a strained attitude, and she felt no desire to take credit for her conduct. Mixed with this imperfect pride, nevertheless, was a feeling of freedom which in itself was sweet and which, as she wandered through the great city with her ill-matched companions, occasionally throbbed into odd demonstrations. When she walked in Kensington Gardens she stopped the children (mainly of the poorer sort) whom she saw playing on the grass; she asked them their names and gave them sixpence and, when they were pretty, kissed them. Ralph noticed these quaint charities; he noticed everything she did. One afternoon, that his companions might pass the time, he invited them to tea in Winchester Square, and he had the house set in order as much as possible for their visit. There was another guest to meet them, an amiable bachelor, an old friend of Ralph’s who happened to be in town and for whom prompt commerce with Miss Stackpole appeared to have neither difficulty nor dread. Mr. Bantling, a stout, sleek, smiling man of forty, wonderfully dressed, universally informed and incoherently amused, laughed immoderately at everything Henrietta said, gave her several cups of tea, examined in her society the bric-a-brac, of which Ralph had a considerable collection, and afterwards, when the host proposed they should go out into the square and pretend it was a fete-champetre, walked round the limited enclosure several times with her and, at a dozen turns of their talk, bounded responsive—as with a positive passion for argumentto her remarks upon the inner life.
伊莎贝尔离开花园宫之前发生的那件事，在我们这位年轻女子的心里留下了痛苦的痕迹：当她的脸上再次感觉到她上一个追求者惊讶的冰冷呼吸时，她只能捂住自己的头，直到她的脸再次出现。空气净化了。她所做的不可能比她所做的还要少。这确实是事实。但尽管如此，她的必要性就像某种紧张态度下的身体行为一样不优雅，而且她不想为自己的行为赢得荣誉。然而，与这种不完美的骄傲混合在一起的是一种自由的感觉，这种感觉本身是甜蜜的，当她和她的不相配的同伴在这座大城市漫步时，这种感觉偶尔会跳出奇怪的示威。当她走在肯辛顿花园时，她看到孩子们（主要是较穷的孩子）在草地上玩耍，于是她停下来。她问他们的名字，给了他们六便士，当他们漂亮的时候，她就吻了他们。拉尔夫注意到了这些古怪的慈善机构；他注意到她所做的一切。一天下午，为了让他的同伴们打发时间，他邀请他们去温彻斯特广场喝茶，并尽可能地把房间布置好，以便他们来访。还有另一位客人来迎接他们，一位和蔼可亲的单身汉，拉尔夫的一位老朋友，他碰巧在城里，对他来说，与斯塔克波尔小姐的迅速交往似乎既不困难也不可怕。先生。 班特林是个四十岁的男人，身材矮胖，衣着光鲜，笑容满面，衣着光鲜亮丽，见多识广，语无伦次，他对亨利埃塔说的每句话都放肆地大笑，给她喝了几杯茶，审视了她社交中的小摆设，拉尔夫在其中聚集了相当多的人，后来，当主人提议他们应该去广场上假装这是一场宴会时，她就和她一起绕着有限的围场走了好几圈，在他们谈话的十几个回合中，他们做出了有限的回应——对她对内心生活的评论充满积极的热情。

‘Oh, I see; I dare say you found it very quiet at Gardencourt. Naturally there’s not much going on there when there’s such a lot of illness about. Touchett’s very bad, you know; the doctors have forbidden his being in England at all, and he has only come back to take care of his father. The old man, I believe, has half a dozen things the matter with him. They call it gout, but to my certain knowledge he has organic disease so developed that you may depend upon it he’ll go, some day soon, quite quickly. Of course that sort of thing makes a dreadfully dull house; I wonder they have people when they can do so little for them. Then I believe Mr. Touchett’s always squabbling with his wife; she lives away from her husband, you know, in that extraordinary American way of yours. If you want a house where there’s always something going on, I recommend you to go down and stay with my sister, Lady Pensil, in Bedfordshire. I’ll write to her tomorrow and I’m sure she’ll be delighted to ask you. I know just what you want—you want a house where they go in for theatricals and picnics and that sort of thing. My sister’s just that sort of woman; she’s always getting up something or other and she’s always glad to have the sort of people who help her. I’m sure she’ll ask you down by return of post: she’s tremendously fond of distinguished people and writers. She writes herself, you know; but I haven’t read everything she has written. It’s usually poetry, and I don’t go in much for poetry—unless it’s Byron. I suppose you think a great deal of Byron in America,’ Mr. Bantling continued, expanding in the stimulating air of Miss Stackpole’s attention, bringing up his sequences promptly and changing his topic with an easy turn of hand. Yet he none the less gracefully kept in sight of the idea, dazzling to Henrietta, of her going to stay with Lady Pensil in Bedfordshire. ‘I understand what you want; you want to see some genuine English sport. The Touchetts aren’t English at all, you know; they have their own habits, their own language, their own food—some odd religion even, I believe, of their own. The old man thinks it’s wicked to hunt, I’m told. You must get down to my sister’s in time for the theatricals, and I’m sure she’ll be glad to give you a part. I’m sure you act well; I know you’re very clever. My sister’s forty years old and has seven children, but she’s going to play the principal part. Plain as she is she makes up awfully well—I will say for her. Of course you needn’t act if you don’t want to.’
'我懂了;我敢说你会发现花园庭院非常安静。当疾病如此之多时，自然不会发生太多事情。你知道，图切特很糟糕。医生根本禁止他去英国，他回来只是为了照顾他的父亲。我相信这位老人有六件事情不对劲。他们称之为痛风，但据我所知，他患有器质性疾病，病情发展得如此严重，你可以相信他很快就会痊愈的。当然，这种东西会让房子变得非常沉闷。我想知道他们能为他们做的事情如此之少，但他们还有人。然后我相信图切特先生总是和他的妻子争吵；你知道，她远离她的丈夫，以你那种非同寻常的美国方式生活。如果你想要一所总是有事情发生的房子，我建议你去贝德福德郡和我的妹妹彭西尔夫人住在一起。我明天会写信给她，我相信她会很高兴向你询问。我知道你想要什么——你想要一所房子，他们可以在那里看戏、野餐之类的事情。我姐姐就是这样的女人；她总是在做一些事情，而且她总是很高兴有人帮助她。我相信她会在回信时请你下来：她非常喜欢杰出的人和作家。你知道，她自己写的；但我还没有读过她写的所有内容。通常是诗歌，我不太喜欢诗歌——除非是拜伦。我想你在美国很想念拜伦。”班特林先生继续说道，他在斯塔克波尔小姐的注意力的刺激下扩大了视野，迅速地提出了他的顺序，并轻松地改变了话题。 然而，他仍然优雅地记住了她要去贝德福德郡和彭西尔夫人住在一起的想法，这让亨丽埃塔眼花缭乱。 ‘我明白你想要什么；你想看一些真正的英国运动。你知道，图基特一家根本就不是英国人。他们有自己的习惯、自己的语言、自己的食物——我相信，甚至有一些奇怪的宗教信仰。有人告诉我，老人认为打猎是邪恶的。你必须及时赶到我姐姐那里去看戏，我相信她会很高兴给你一个角色。我相信你表现得很好；我知道你很聪明。我姐姐四十岁了，有七个孩子，但她将扮演主角。尽管她相貌平平，但她的妆容却非常好——我替她说。当然，如果你不愿意的话，你可以不采取行动。’

In this manner Mr. Bantling delivered himself while they strolled over the grass in Winchester Square, which, although it had been peppered by the London soot, invited the tread to linger. Henrietta thought her blooming, easy-voiced bachelor, with his impressibility to feminine merit and his splendid range of suggestion, a very agreeable man, and she valued the opportunity he offered her. ‘I don’t know but I would go, if your sister should ask me. I think it would be my duty. What do you call her name?’
当他们在温彻斯特广场的草地上漫步时，班特林先生就用这种方式表达了自己的感受，虽然草地上沾满了伦敦的烟灰，但脚步声却久久不散。亨丽埃塔认为她的这位才华横溢、声音轻松的单身汉，对女性的优点不敏感，而且能提供丰富的建议，是一个非常令人愉快的男人，她很珍惜他为她提供的机会。 “我不知道，但如果你姐姐问我的话，我会去的。”我想这将是我的职责。你叫她什么名字？

‘Pensil. It’s an odd name, but it isn’t a bad one.’
‘彭西尔。这是一个奇怪的名字，但并不坏。

‘I think one name’s as good as another. But what’s her rank?’
“我认为一个名字和另一个名字一样好。但她的军衔是什么？

‘Oh, she’s a baron’s wife; a convenient sort of rank. You’re fine enough and you’re not too fine.’
“哦，她是一位男爵的妻子；一种方便的排名。你已经足够好了，而且还不算太好。

‘I don’t know but what she’d be too fine for me. What do you call the place she lives in—Bedfordshire?’
“我不知道，但她对我来说太好了。你怎么称呼她住的地方——贝德福德郡？

‘She lives away in the northern corner of it. It’s a tiresome country, but I dare say you won’t mind it. I’ll try and run down while you’re there.’
“她住在它的北角。这是一个令人厌烦的国家，但我敢说你不会介意。你在的时候我会试着跑下去。

All this was very pleasant to Miss Stackpole, and she was sorry to be obliged to separate from Lady Pensil’s obliging brother. But it happened that she had met the day before, in Piccadilly, some friends whom she had not seen for a year: the Miss Climbers, two ladies from Wilmington, Delaware, who had been travelling on the Continent and were now preparing to re-embark. Henrietta had had a long interview with them on the Piccadilly pavement, and though the three ladies all talked at once they had not exhausted their store. It had been agreed therefore that Henrietta should come and dine with them in their lodgings in Jermyn Street at six o’clock on the morrow, and she now bethought herself of this engagement. She prepared to start for Jermyn Street, taking leave first of Ralph Touchett and Isabel, who, seated on garden chairs in another part of the enclosure, were occupied—if the term may be used—with an exchange of amenities less pointed than the practical colloquy of Miss Stackpole and Mr. Bantling. When it had been settled between Isabel and her friend that they should be reunited at some reputable hour at Pratt’s Hotel, Ralph remarked that the latter must have a cab. She couldn’t walk all the way to Jermyn Street.
这一切对斯塔克波尔小姐来说都很愉快，她很遗憾不得不与彭西尔夫人乐于助人的兄弟分开。但碰巧的是，她前一天在皮卡迪利遇到了一些一年不见的朋友：攀登者小姐，两位来自特拉华州威尔明顿的女士，她们一直在欧洲大陆旅行，现在正准备重新出发。登船。亨丽埃塔在皮卡迪利大街上与她们进行了一次长时间的会面，虽然三位女士同时交谈，但她们还没有耗尽她们的储备。因此，大家商定，亨丽埃塔明天六点应该来他们在杰明街的住处和他们共进晚餐，现在她想起了这次订婚。她准备出发前往杰明街，先向拉尔夫·图切特和伊莎贝尔告别，他们坐在围场另一部分的花园椅子上，忙着——如果可以用这个词的话——交换一些不那么尖锐的客套话。斯塔克波尔小姐和班特林先生的对话。当伊莎贝尔和她的朋友决定在某个合适的时间在普拉特酒店重聚时，拉尔夫说后者必须有一辆出租车。她无法一路走到杰明街。

‘I suppose you mean it’s improper for me to walk alone!’ Henrietta exclaimed. ‘Merciful powers, have I come to this?’
“我想你的意思是我一个人走路不合适！”亨利埃塔喊道。 “仁慈的神力，我已经到了这个地步了吗？”

‘There’s not the slightest need of your walking alone,’ Mr. Bantling gaily interposed. ‘I should be greatly pleased to go with you.’
“你完全没有必要独自行走，”班特林先生愉快地插话道。 “我很高兴和你一起去。”

‘I simply meant that you’d be late for dinner,’ Ralph returned. ‘Those poor ladies may easily believe that we refuse, at the last, to spare you.’
“我只是想说你吃晚饭会迟到。”拉尔夫回答道。 “那些可怜的女士很容易相信我们最终拒绝饶恕你。”

‘You had better have a hansom, Henrietta,’ said Isabel.
“你最好有一辆双轮马车，亨利埃塔，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘I’ll get you a hansom if you’ll trust me,’ Mr. Bantling went on. ‘We might walk a little till we meet one.’
“如果你相信我，我会给你一辆双轮马车，”班特林先生继续说道。 “我们可能会走一段路，直到遇见一个。”

‘I don’t see why I shouldn’t trust him, do you?’ Henrietta enquired of Isabel.
“我不明白为什么我不应该相信他，你呢？”亨丽埃塔问伊莎贝尔。

‘I don’t see what Mr. Bantling could do to you,’ Isabel obligingly answered; ‘but, if you like, we’ll walk with you till you find your cab.’
“我看不出班特林先生能对你做什么，”伊莎贝尔殷勤地回答道。 “但是，如果你愿意，我们会陪你一起走，直到你找到出租车。”

‘Never mind; we’ll go alone. Come on, Mr. Bantling, and take care you get me a good one.’
'没关系;我们一个人去。来吧，班特林先生，帮我找个好的。”

Mr. Bantling promised to do his best, and the two took their departure, leaving the girl and her cousin together in the square, over which a clear September twilight had now begun to gather. It was perfectly still; the wide quadrangle of dusky houses showed lights in none of the windows, where the shutters and blinds were closed; the pavements were a vacant expanse, and, putting aside two small children from a neighbouring slum, who, attracted by symptoms of abnormal animation in the interior, poked their faces between the rusty rails of the enclosure, the most vivid object within sight was the big red pillar-post on the southeast corner.
班特林先生答应会尽力而为，两人就出发了，把女孩和她的表弟留在广场上，九月的暮色已经开始笼罩广场。四周一片寂静。宽阔的四边形的昏暗房屋没有一扇窗户透出灯光，百叶窗和百叶窗都关着。人行道是一片空旷的地方，除了两个来自邻近贫民窟的小孩，他们被内部异常活跃的症状所吸引，把脸伸进围栏生锈的栏杆之间，视线中最生动的物体是东南角的大红色柱子。

‘Henrietta will ask him to get into the cab and go with her to Jermyn Street,’ Ralph observed. He always spoke of Miss Stackpole as Henrietta.
“亨利埃塔会让他上出租车，和她一起去杰明街，”拉尔夫观察道。他总是称斯塔克波尔小姐为亨利埃塔。

‘Very possibly,’ said his companion.
“很有可能，”他的同伴说。

‘Or rather, no, she won’t,’ he went on. ‘But Bantling will ask leave to get in.’
“或者更确切地说，不，她不会，”他继续说道。 “但班特林会请假才能进去。”

‘Very likely again. I’m very glad they’re such good friends.’
‘很可能又来了。我很高兴他们是这么好的朋友。

‘She has made a conquest. He thinks her a brilliant woman. It may go far,’ said Ralph.
‘她已经取得了征服。他认为她是一位才华横溢的女人。它可能会走得很远，”拉尔夫说。

Isabel was briefly silent. ‘I call Henrietta a very brilliant woman, but I don’t think it will go far. They would never really know each other. He has not the least idea what she really is, and she has no just comprehension of Mr. Bantling.’
伊莎贝尔短暂地沉默了。 “我称亨丽埃塔是一位非常才华横溢的女性，但我认为这不会走得太远。他们永远不会真正了解彼此。他根本不知道她到底是什么，而她对班特林先生也没有公正的理解。

‘There’s no more usual basis of union than a mutual misunderstanding. But it ought not to be so difficult to understand Bob Bantling,’ Ralph added. ‘He is a very simple organism.’
“没有什么比相互误解更常见的联盟基础了。但理解鲍勃·班特林不应该那么困难，”拉尔夫补充道。 “他是一个非常简单的有机体。”

‘Yes, but Henrietta’s a simpler one still. And, pray, what am I to do?’ Isabel asked, looking about her through the fading light, in which the limited landscape-gardening of the square took on a large and effective appearance. ‘I don’t imagine that you’ll propose that you and I, for our amusement, shall drive about London in a hansom.’
“是的，但亨利埃塔还是更简单一些。”那么，请问，我该怎么办？”伊莎贝尔问道，透过渐暗的光线环顾四周，广场上有限的景观花园呈现出巨大而有效的外观。 “我不认为你会建议你和我为了娱乐而开着双轮马车在伦敦兜风。”

‘There’s no reason we shouldn’t stay here—if you don’t dislike it. It’s very warm; there will be half an hour yet before dark; and if you permit it I’ll light a cigarette.’
“如果你不喜欢的话，我们没有理由不留在这里。天气很暖和；距离天黑还有半个小时；如果你允许的话我就点一支烟。”

‘You may do what you please,’ said Isabel, ‘if you’ll amuse me till seven o’clock. I propose at that hour to go back and partake of a simple and solitary repast—two poached eggs and a muffin—at Pratt’s Hotel.’
“你可以做你想做的事，”伊莎贝尔说，“如果你能逗我玩到七点钟的话。”我建议在那个时候回去，在普拉特酒店享用一顿简单而孤独的晚餐——两个荷包蛋和一个松饼。

‘Mayn’t I dine with you?’ Ralph asked.
“我可以和你一起吃饭吗？”拉尔夫问。

‘No, you’ll dine at your club.’
“不，你会在你的俱乐部吃饭。”

They had wandered back to their chairs in the centre of the square again, and Ralph had lighted his cigarette. It would have given him extreme pleasure to be present in person at the modest little feast she had sketched; but in default of this he liked even being forbidden. For the moment, however, he liked immensely being alone with her, in the thickening dusk, in the centre of the multitudinous town; it made her seem to depend upon him and to be in his power. This power he could exert but vaguely; the best exercise of it was to accept her decisions submissively—which indeed there was already an emotion in doing. ‘Why won’t you let me dine with you?’ he demanded after a pause.
他们又漫步回到广场中央的椅子上，拉尔夫点燃了香烟。如果他能亲自参加她所描绘的简朴的小型宴会，他会感到非常高兴。但如果做不到这一点，他甚至喜欢被禁止。然而此刻，他非常喜欢和她单独在一起，在暮色渐浓的时候，在人口众多的城镇中心。这让她似乎依赖他并处于他的权力之下。他可以模糊地运用这种力量；最好的练习就是顺从地接受她的决定——事实上，这样做时已经有了一种情感。 “你为什么不让我和你一起吃饭？”停顿了一下，他问道。

‘Because I don’t care for it.’
“因为我不关心它。”

‘I suppose you’re tired of me.’
“我想你已经厌倦了我。”

‘I shall be an hour hence. You see I have the gift of foreknowledge.’
“一小时后我就到了。”你看我有预知的天赋。

‘Oh, I shall be delightful meanwhile,’ said Ralph. But he said nothing more, and as she made no rejoinder they sat sometime in a stillness which seemed to contradict his promise of entertainment. It seemed to him she was preoccupied, and he wondered what she was thinking about; there were two or three very possible subjects. At last he spoke again. ‘Is your objection to my society this evening caused by your expectation of another visitor?’
“哦，我会很高兴的，”拉尔夫说。但他什么也没说，而她也没有反驳，他们一时安静地坐着，这似乎与他娱乐的承诺相矛盾。在他看来，她似乎全神贯注，他想知道她在想什么。有两三个非常可能的主题。最后他又开口了。 “你今晚反对我的交往是因为你期待另一位访客吗？”

She turned her head with a glance of her clear, fair eyes. ‘Another visitor? What visitor should I have?’
她转过头来，一双清澈的白眸看了一眼。 ‘又一个访客？我应该接待什么访客？

He had none to suggest; which made his question seem to himself silly as well as brutal. ‘You’ve a great many friends that I don’t know. You’ve a whole past from which I was perversely excluded.’
他没有什么建议；这使得他的问题在他自己看来既愚蠢又残酷。 “你有很多我不认识的朋友。你有一段完整的过去，而我却被反常地排除在外。”

‘You were reserved for my future. You must remember that my past is over there across the water. There’s none of it here in London.’
‘你是为我的未来保留的。你一定要记住，我的过去就在水的彼岸。伦敦什么都没有。

‘Very good, then, since your future is seated beside you. Capital thing to have your future so handy.’ And Ralph lighted another cigarette and reflected that Isabel probably meant she had received news that Mr. Caspar Goodwood had crossed to Paris. After he had lighted his cigarette he puffed it a while, and then he resumed. ‘I promised just now to be very amusing; but you see I don’t come up to the mark, and the fact is there’s a good deal of temerity in one’s undertaking to amuse a person like you. What do you care for my feeble attempts? You’ve grand ideas—you’ve a high standard in such matters. I ought at least to bring in a band of music or a company of mountebanks.’
‘那么，很好，因为你的未来就在你身边。你的未来如此触手可及，真是太棒了。”拉尔夫又点了一根烟，心想伊莎贝尔可能是说她收到了卡斯帕·古德伍德先生越境到巴黎的消息。他点燃香烟后，吸了一会儿，然后又继续说。 “我刚才答应过要很有趣；但你看，我没有达到标准，事实是，要取悦像你这样的人，是非常鲁莽的。你对我微弱的尝试有何关心？你有伟大的想法——你在这些事情上有很高的标准。我至少应该请一支乐队或一群江湖骗子进来。

‘One mountebank’s enough, and you do very well. Pray go on, and in another ten minutes I shall begin to laugh.’
“一个江湖骗子就够了，而且你做得很好。”请继续说下去，再过十分钟我就会开始笑。

‘I assure you I’m very serious,’ said Ralph. ‘You do really ask a great deal.’
“我向你保证我是很认真的，”拉尔夫说。 “你的要求确实很高。”

‘I don’t know what you mean. I ask nothing!’
‘我不知道你的意思。我什么也不问！

‘You accept nothing,’ said Ralph. She coloured, and now suddenly it seemed to her that she guessed his meaning. But why should he speak to her of such things? He hesitated a little and then he continued: ‘There’s something I should like very much to say to you. It’s a question I wish to ask. It seems to me I’ve a right to ask it, because I’ve a kind of interest in the answer.’
“你什么都不接受，”拉尔夫说。她脸色红了，突然间她似乎猜到了他的意思。但他为什么要跟她说这些事情呢？他犹豫了一下，然后继续说道：“有件事我很想对你说。”这是我想问的一个问题。在我看来，我有权问这个问题，因为我对答案有某种兴趣。

‘Ask what you will,’ Isabel replied gently, ‘and I’ll try to satisfy you.’
“你想问什么就问吧，”伊莎贝尔温柔地回答，“我会尽力满足你。”

‘Well then, I hope you won’t mind my saying that Warburton has told me of something that has passed between you.’
“那么，我希望你不会介意我说沃伯顿告诉了我你们之间发生的一些事情。”

Isabel suppressed a start; he sat looking at her open fan. ‘Very good; I suppose it was natural he should tell you.’
伊莎贝尔抑制住了惊慌。他坐着看着她打开的扇子。 '非常好;我想他告诉你是很自然的事。

‘I have his leave to let you know he has done so. He has some hope still,’ said Ralph.
“我得到他的允许让你知道他已经这样做了。他仍然有一些希望，”拉尔夫说。

‘Still?’
'仍然？'

‘He had it a few days ago.’
“他几天前就得了。”

‘I don’t believe he has any now,’ said the girl.
“我不相信他现在有任何东西了，”女孩说。

‘I’m very sorry for him then; he’s such an honest man.’
“那么我对他感到非常抱歉；他是一个非常诚实的人。

‘Pray, did he ask you to talk to me?’
“请问，他有邀请你跟我说话吗？”

‘No, not that. But he told me because he couldn’t help it. We’re old friends, and he was greatly disappointed. He sent me a line asking me to come and see him, and I drove over to Lockleigh the day before he and his sister lunched with us. He was very heavy-hearted; he had just got a letter from you.’
‘不，不是那样。但他告诉我是因为他无法控制。我们是老朋友了，他非常失望。他给我发了一条短信，要求我去看他，在他和他妹妹与我们共进午餐的前一天，我开车去了洛克利。他的心情非常沉重。他刚刚收到你的一封信。

‘Did he show you the letter?’ asked Isabel with momentary loftiness.
“他给你看了那封信吗？”伊莎贝尔一时傲慢地问道。

‘By no means. But he told me it was a neat refusal. I was very sorry for him,’ Ralph repeated.
'绝不是这样。但他告诉我，这是一次明确的拒绝。我为他感到非常抱歉，”拉尔夫重复道。

For some moments Isabel said nothing; then at last, ‘Do you know how often he had seen me?’ she enquired. ‘Five or six times.’
有一会儿，伊莎贝尔一言不发。最后，“你知道他见过我多少次吗？”她问道。 “五六次。”

‘That’s to your glory.’
“这是为了你的荣耀。”

‘It’s not for that I say it.’
“我不是为了这个才这么说的。”

‘What then do you say it for? Not to prove that poor Warburton’s state of mind’s superficial, because I’m pretty sure you don’t think that.’
‘那你说这话是为了什么？不是为了证明可怜的沃伯顿的心态是肤浅的，因为我很确定你不这么认为。

Isabel certainly was unable to say she thought it but presently she said something else. ‘If you’ve not been requested by Lord Warburton to argue with me, then you’re doing it disinterestedly—or for the love of argument.’
伊莎贝尔当然不能说她是这么想的，但很快她又说了些什么。 “如果沃伯顿勋爵没有要求你与我争论，那么你这样做就是无私的——或者是因为喜欢争论。”

‘I’ve no wish to argue with you at all. I only wish to leave you alone. I’m simply greatly interested in your own sentiments.’
‘我根本不想和你争论。我只想留下你一个人。我只是对你自己的感受非常感兴趣。

‘I’m greatly obliged to you!’ cried Isabel with a slightly nervous laugh.
“我非常感谢你！”伊莎贝尔带着一丝紧张的笑声喊道。

‘Of course you mean that I’m meddling in what doesn’t concern me. But why shouldn’t I speak to you of this matter without annoying you or embarrassing myself? What’s the use of being your cousin if I can’t have a few privileges? What’s the use of adoring you without hope of a reward if I can’t have a few compensations? What’s the use of being ill and disabled and restricted to mere spectatorship at the game of life if I really can’t see the show when I’ve paid so much for my ticket? Tell me this,’ Ralph went on while she listened to him with quickened attention. ‘What had you in mind when you refused Lord Warburton?’
‘当然，你的意思是我插手与我无关的事情。但我为什么不应该和你谈论这件事，以免惹恼你或让我自己难堪呢？如果我不能拥有一些特权，当你表弟有什么用？如果得不到一点补偿，我爱你不求回报又有什么用呢？如果我花了这么多钱买了票却真的看不到演出，那么生病、残疾并仅限于观看人生的比赛又有什么用呢？告诉我这个，”拉尔夫继续说道，而她则全神贯注地听他说话。 “当你拒绝沃伯顿勋爵时，你在想什么？”

‘What had I in mind?’
“我想到了什么？”

‘What was the logic—the view of your situation—that dictated so remarkable an act?’
“是什么逻辑——你对处境的看法——决定了如此非凡的行为？”

‘I didn’t wish to marry him—if that’s logic.’
“我不想嫁给他——如果这是逻辑的话。”

‘No, that’s not logic—and I knew that before. It’s really nothing, you know. What was it you said to yourself? You certainly said more than that?’
“不，这不符合逻辑——我以前就知道这一点。其实这没什么，你知道的。你对自己说了什么？你肯定说的不止这些？

Isabel reflected a moment, then answered with a question of her own. ‘Why do you call it a remarkable act? That’s what your mother thinks too.
伊莎贝尔沉思了一会儿，然后回答了她自己的问题。 ‘为什么你称这是一个了不起的行为？你妈妈也是这么想的。

‘Warburton’s such a thorough good sort; as a man, I consider he has hardly a fault. And then he’s what they call here no end of a swell. He has immense possessions, and his wife would be thought a superior being. He unites the intrinsic and the extrinsic advantages.’
“沃伯顿真是一个十足的好人；作为一个男人，我认为他几乎没有什么过错。然后他就是他们所谓的“永无休止的膨胀”。他拥有巨大的财产，他的妻子会被认为是一个高人一等的人。他将内在优势和外在优势结合起来。

Isabel watched her cousin as to see how far he would go. ‘I refused him because he was too perfect then. I’m not perfect myself, and he’s too good for me. Besides, his perfection would irritate me.’
伊莎贝尔看着她的表弟，看他能走多远。 “我拒绝了他，因为他当时太完美了。我自己并不完美，而他对我来说太好了。此外，他的完美会激怒我。”

‘That’s ingenious rather than candid,’ said Ralph. ‘As a fact you think nothing in the world too perfect for you.’
“这很巧妙，但并不坦率，”拉尔夫说。 “事实上，你认为世界上没有什么对你来说太完美了。”

‘Do you think I’m so good?’
「你觉得我有那么好吗？」

‘No, but you’re exacting, all the same, without the excuse of thinking yourself good. Nineteen women out of twenty, however, even of the most exacting sort, would have managed to do with Warburton. Perhaps you don’t know how he has been stalked.’
“不，但你还是很严格，没有借口认为自己很好。然而，二十名女性中有十九名，即使是最严格的女性，也会设法与沃伯顿打交道。也许你不知道他是如何被跟踪的。

‘I don’t wish to know. But it seems to me,’ said Isabel, ‘that one day when we talked of him you mentioned odd things in him.’
‘我不想知道。但在我看来，”伊莎贝尔说，“有一天，当我们谈论他时，你提到了他身上的奇怪之处。”

Ralph smokingly considered. ‘I hope that what I said then had no weight with you; for they were not faults, the things I spoke of: they were simply peculiarities of his position. If I had known he wished to marry you I’d never have alluded to them. I think I said that as regards that position he was rather a sceptic. It would have been in your power to make him a believer.’
拉尔夫冒烟地思考着。 “我希望我当时所说的话对你没有影响；因为我所说的这些并不是缺点：它们只是他所处位置的特殊之处。如果我知道他想娶你，我就不会提到他们。我想我说过，对于这个立场，他相当怀疑。你本来有能力让他成为信徒。

‘I think not. I don’t understand the matter, and I’m not conscious of any mission of that sort. You’re evidently disappointed,’ Isabel added, looking at her cousin with rueful gentleness. ‘You’d have liked me to make such a marriage.’
'我想不是。我不明白这是怎么回事，我也不知道有什么这样的使命。你显然很失望，”伊莎贝尔补充道，用悲伤的温柔看着她的表弟。 “你一定会希望我能缔造这样的婚姻。”

‘Not in the least. I’m absolutely without a wish on the subject. I don’t pretend to advise you, and I content myself with watching youwith the deepest interest.’
” “一点也不。我对这个问题绝对没有任何愿望。我不会假装给你提供建议，我满足于以最深切的兴趣看着你。

She gave rather a conscious sigh. ‘I wish I could be as interesting to myself as I am to you!’
她有意识地叹了口气。 “我希望我自己能像对你一样有趣！”

‘There you’re not candid again; you’re extremely interesting to yourself. Do you know, however,’ said Ralph, ‘that if you’ve really given Warburton his final answer I’m rather glad it has been what it was. I don’t mean I’m glad for you, and still less of course for him. I’m glad for myself.’
‘你又不坦诚了；你对自己非常感兴趣。然而你知道吗，”拉尔夫说，“如果你真的给了沃伯顿他的最终答案，我很高兴事情就是这样。我并不是说我为你感到高兴，当然更不是为他感到高兴。我为自己感到高兴。

‘Are you thinking of proposing to me?’
“你想向我求婚吗？”

‘By no means. From the point of view I speak of that would be fatal; I should kill the goose that supplies me with the material of my inimitable omelettes. I use that animal as the symbol of my insane illusions. What I mean is that I shall have the thrill of seeing what a young lady does who won’t marry Lord Warburton.’
'绝不是这样。从我的角度来看，这将是致命的；我应该杀掉为我提供独一无二的煎蛋卷原料的鹅。我用那只动物作为我疯狂幻想的象征。我的意思是，我将很高兴看到一位不愿嫁给沃伯顿勋爵的年轻女士的所作所为。

‘That’s what your mother counts upon too,’ said Isabel.
“这也是你母亲所指望的，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘Ah, there will be plenty of spectators! We shall hang on the rest of your career. I shall not see all of it, but I shall probably see the most interesting years. Of course if you were to marry our friend you’d still have a career—a very decent, in fact a very brilliant one. But relatively speaking it would be a little prosaic. It would be definitely marked out in advance; it would be wanting in the unexpected. You know I’m extremely fond of the unexpected, and now that you’ve kept the game in your hands I depend on your giving us some grand example of it.’
‘啊，会有很多观众的！我们将继续你余下的职业生涯。我不会看到全部，但我可能会看到最有趣的年份。当然，如果你要嫁给我们的朋友，你仍然会有一份职业——一份非常体面、事实上非常辉煌的职业。但相对而言，就有点平淡了。肯定是提前标明的；会出现意想不到的情况。你知道我非常喜欢意想不到的事情，现在你已经把游戏掌握在你手中了，我依赖你给我们一些伟大的例子。

‘I don’t understand you very well,’ said Isabel, ‘but I do so well enough to be able to say that if you look for grand examples of anything from me I shall disappoint you.’
“我不太了解你，”伊莎贝尔说，“但我足够了解你了，如果你想从我身上寻找伟大的例子，我会让你失望的。”

‘You’ll do so only by disappointing yourself—and that will go hard with you!’
“只有让自己失望，你才会这么做——这会让你很难受！”

To this she made no direct reply; there was an amount of truth in it that would bear consideration. At last she said abruptly: ‘I don’t see what harm there is in my wishing not to tie myself. I don’t want to begin life by marrying. There are other things a woman can do.’
对此她没有直接回答；其中有很多值得考虑的真理。最后她突然说道：“我不明白我不想把自己绑起来有什么坏处。我不想通过结婚来开始生活。女人还可以做其他事情。

‘There’s nothing she can do so well. But you’re of course so many-sided.’
‘没有什么事情她能做得这么好。但你当然是多面的。

‘If one’s two-sided it’s enough,’ said Isabel.
“如果一个人是双面的就足够了，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘You’re the most charming of polygons!’ her companion broke out. At a glance from his companion, however, he became grave, and to prove it went on: ‘You want to see life—you’ll be hanged if you don’t, as the young men say.
“你是最迷人的多边形！”她的同伴大声说道。然而，他的同伴看了一眼，他的表情变得严肃起来，为了证明这一点，他继续说道：“你想看看生活——如果你不这样做，你就会被绞死，正如年轻人所说的那样。”

‘I don’t think I want to see it as the young men want to see it. But I do want to look about me.’
“我想我不想像年轻人那样想看到它。但我确实想看看我自己。”

‘You want to drain the cup of experience.’
“你想耗尽经验之杯。”

‘No, I don’t wish to touch the cup of experience. It’s a poisoned drink! I only want to see for myself.’
‘不，我不想碰经验之杯。这是有毒的饮料！我只想亲眼看看。

‘You want to see, but not to feel,’ Ralph remarked.
“你想看，但不想感受，”拉尔夫说。

‘I don’t think that if one’s a sentient being one can make the distinction. I’m a good deal like Henrietta. The other day when I asked her if she wished to marry she said: ‘Not till I’ve seen Europe!’ I too don’t wish to marry till I’ve seen Europe.’
‘我不认为如果一个人是一个有情众生，就能够做出区分。我很像亨丽埃塔。有一天，当我问她是否想结婚时，她说：“除非我见过欧洲，否则我不想结婚！”我也不想结婚，除非我见过欧洲。

‘You evidently expect a crowned head will be struck with you.’
“你显然期望你会击中一个戴着王冠的头颅。”

‘No, that would be worse than marrying Lord Warburton. But it’s getting very dark,’ Isabel continued, ‘and I must go home.’ She rose from her place, but Ralph only sat still and looked at her. As he remained there she stopped, and they exchanged a gaze that was full on either side, but especially on Ralph’s, of utterances too vague for words.
“不，那会比嫁给沃伯顿勋爵更糟糕。”但天已经黑了，”伊莎贝尔继续说道，“我必须回家了。”她从座位上站起来，但拉尔夫只是一动不动地坐着，看着她。当他留在那里时，她停了下来，他们交换了目光，目光投向双方，尤其是拉尔夫的目光，目光中的话语太过模糊，无法用言语表达。

‘You’ve answered my question,’ he said at last. ‘You’ve told me what I wanted. I’m greatly obliged to you.’
“你回答了我的问题，”他最后说道。 ‘你已经告诉我我想要什么了。我非常感谢你。

‘It seems to me I’ve told you very little.’
“在我看来，我告诉你的东西太少了。”

‘You’ve told me the great thing: that the world interests you and that you want to throw yourself into it.’
“你告诉了我一件伟大的事情：这个世界让你感兴趣，并且你想投身其中。”

Her silvery eyes shone a moment in the dusk. ‘I never said that.’
她银色的眸子在暮色中闪现出片刻的光芒。 '我从没有说过。'

‘I think you meant it. Don’t repudiate it. It’s so fine!’
‘我想你是认真的。不要否认它。太好了！

‘I don’t know what you’re trying to fasten upon me, for I’m not in the least an adventurous spirit. Women are not like men.’
“我不知道你想把什么强加给我，因为我根本就没有冒险精神。女人不像男人。

Ralph slowly rose from his seat and they walked together to the gate of the square. ‘No,’ he said; ‘women rarely boast of their courage. Men do so with a certain frequency.’
拉尔夫缓缓从座位上站起来，两人一起向广场门口走去。 “不，”他说。 “女人很少夸耀自己的勇气。男人这样做有一定的频率。

‘Men have it to boast of!
‘男人就是有值得夸耀的！

‘Women have it too. You’ve a great deal.’
‘女人也有这样的情况。你有很多好处。

‘Enough to go home in a cab to Pratt’s Hotel, but not more.’
“足够坐出租车去普拉特酒店回家，但不能再多了。”

Ralph unlocked the gate, and after they had passed out he fastened it. ‘We’ll find your cab,’ he said; and as they turned toward a neighbouring street in which this quest might avail he asked her again if he mightn’t see her safely to the inn.
拉尔夫打开门锁，等他们出去后，他把门锁上了。 “我们会找到你的出租车，”他说。当他们转向附近的一条街道时，这个任务可能有用，他再次问她是否可以安全地送她到旅馆。

‘By no means,’ she answered; ‘you’re very tired; you must go home and go to bed.’
“绝不，”她回答道。 ‘你很累；你必须回家去睡觉。

The cab was found, and he helped her into it, standing a moment at the door. ‘When people forget I’m a poor creature I’m often incommoded,’ he said. ‘But it’s worse when they remember it!’
出租车找到了，他扶她上了车，在门口站了一会儿。 “当人们忘记我是一个可怜的人时，我常常感到不便，”他说。 “但当他们想起这件事时，情况会更糟！”

Chapter 16
第16章

She had had no hidden motive in wishing him not to take her home; it simply struck her that for some days past she had consumed an inordinate quantity of his time, and the independent spirit of the American girl whom extravagance of aid places in an attitude that she ends by finding ‘affected’ had made her decide that for these few hours she must suffice to herself. She had moreover a great fondness for intervals of solitude, which since her arrival in England had been but meagrely met. It was a luxury she could always command at home and she had wittingly missed it. That evening, however, an incident occurred which—had there been a critic to note it—would have taken all colour from the theory that the wish to be quite by herself had caused her to dispense with her cousin’s attendance. Seated toward nine o’clock in the dim illumination of Pratt’s Hotel and trying with the aid of two tall candles to lose herself in a volume she had brought from Gardencourt, she succeeded only to the extent of reading other words than those printed on the page—words that Ralph had spoken to her that afternoon. Suddenly the well-muffled knuckle of the waiter was applied to the door, which presently gave way to his exhibition, even as a glorious trophy, of the card of a visitor. When this memento had offered to her fixed sight the name of Mr. Caspar Goodwood she let the man stand before her without signifying her wishes.
她希望他不要带她回家并没有什么隐藏的动机；她只是突然想到，在过去的几天里，她已经消耗了他过多的时间，而这位美国女孩的独立精神，过度的援助使她最终发现“受到影响”，她的独立精神使她决定，为了这些几个小时她自己就够了。此外，她非常喜欢独处，但自从她到达英国以来，她很少能享受到这样的时光。这是她在家里总能享受到的一种奢侈，但她却故意错过了。然而，那天晚上发生了一件事情——如果有批评家注意到这一点的话——那么这个理论就会失去所有色彩，因为她希望自己一个人呆着，所以没有去表弟的陪伴。九点钟左右，她坐在普拉特旅馆昏暗的灯光下，借助两根高高的蜡烛，试图沉浸在她从花园考特带来的一本书中，但她只成功地读到了页面上印刷的文字之外的其他文字。 ——那天下午拉尔夫对她说的话。突然，侍者的指关节被严严实实地按在了门上，门上立即出现了他展示的访客名片，即使是作为一个光荣的战利品。当这个纪念品向她的固定视线提供了卡斯帕·古德伍德先生的名字时，她让这个男人站在她面前，但没有表示她的意愿。

‘Shall I show the gentleman up, ma’am?’ he asked with a slightly encouraging inflexion.
“女士，我可以带这位先生过来吗？”他用一种略带鼓励的语气问道。

Isabel hesitated still and while she hesitated glanced at the mirror. ‘He may come in,’ she said at last; and waited for him not so much smoothing her hair as girding her spirit.
伊莎贝尔仍然犹豫着，犹豫着看了一眼镜子。 “他可以进来了，”她最后说道。等待他的，与其说是抚平她的头发，不如说是为她的精神束上束带。

Caspar Goodwood was accordingly the next moment shaking hands with her, but saying nothing till the servant had left the room. ‘Why didn’t you answer my letter?’ he then asked in a quick, full, slightly peremptory tone—the tone of a man whose questions were habitually pointed and who was capable of much insistence.
卡斯帕·古德伍德下一刻就与她握手，但什么也没说，直到仆人离开房间。 “你为什么不回我的信？”然后他用一种快速、完整、略带专横的语气问道——这种语气是一个习惯于提出尖锐问题并且能够坚持不懈的人的语气。

She answered by a ready question, ‘How did you know I was here?’
她用一个现成的问题回答：“你怎么知道我在这里？”

‘Miss Stackpole let me know,’ said Caspar Goodwood. ‘She told me you would probably be at home alone this evening and would be willing to see me.’
“斯塔克波尔小姐让我知道了，”卡斯帕·古德伍德说。 “她告诉我你今晚可能会独自在家，并且愿意见我。”

‘Where did she see you—to tell you that?’
“她在哪里看到你——为了告诉你这些？”

‘She didn’t see me; she wrote to me.’ Isabel was silent; neither had sat down; they stood there with an air of defiance, or at least of contention. ‘Henrietta never told me she was writing to you,’ she said at last. ‘This is not kind of her.’
“她没有看到我； “她写信给我。”伊莎贝尔沉默了。两人都没有坐下；他们站在那里，带着一种反抗的神情，或者至少是一种争论的神情。 “亨利埃塔从来没有告诉过我她正在写信给你，”她最后说道。 “她这可不太好。”

‘Is it so disagreeable to you to see me?’ asked the young man.
“你见到我就这么不舒服吗？”年轻人问道。

‘I didn’t expect it. I don’t like such surprises.’
‘我没想到。我不喜欢这样的惊喜。

‘But you knew I was in town; it was natural we should meet.’
“但你知道我在城里；我们见面是很自然的事。”

‘Do you call this meeting? I hoped I shouldn’t see you. In so big a place as London it seemed very possible.’
‘你召开这次会议吗？我希望我不会见到你。在伦敦这么大的地方，这似乎很有可能。

‘It was apparently repugnant to you even to write to me,’ her visitor went on.
“显然你连给我写信都感到反感，”她的访客继续说道。

Isabel made no reply; the sense of Henrietta Stackpole’s treachery, as she momentarily qualified it, was strong within her. ‘Henrietta’s certainly not a model of all the delicacies!’ she exclaimed with bitterness: ‘It was a great liberty to take.’
伊莎贝尔没有回答。亨丽埃塔·斯塔克波尔（Henrietta Stackpole）的背叛感在她内心很强烈，正如她短暂地描述的那样。 “亨利埃塔当然不是所有美味佳肴的典范！”她痛苦地喊道：“这是一个很大的自由。”

‘I suppose I’m not a model either—of those virtues or of any others. The fault’s mine as much as hers.’
“我想我也不是这些美德或任何其他美德的典范。我的错和她的错一样多。

As Isabel looked at him it seemed to her that his jaw had never been more square. This might have displeased her, but she took a different turn. ‘No, it’s not your fault so much as hers. What you’ve done was inevitable, I suppose, for you.’
当伊莎贝尔看着他时，她觉得他的下巴从来没有这么方过。这可能会让她不高兴，但她采取了不同的态度。 “不，这不是你的错，而是她的错。我想，你所做的事情对你来说是不可避免的。

‘It was indeed!’ cried Caspar Goodwood with a voluntary laugh. ‘And now that I’ve come, at any rate, mayn’t I stay?’
“确实是这样！”卡斯帕·古德伍德笑着喊道。 “既然我来了，无论如何，我不能留下来吗？”

‘You may sit down, certainly.’
“当然，你可以坐下来。”

She went back to her chair again, while her visitor took the first place that offered, in the manner of a man accustomed to pay little thought to that sort of furtherance. ‘I’ve been hoping every day for an answer to my letter. You might have written me a few lines.’
她又回到了椅子上，而她的客人则以一个习惯于很少考虑这种帮助的人的方式占据了第一个提供的位置。 “我每天都希望我的信能得到答复。你可能给我写了几行。

‘It wasn’t the trouble of writing that prevented me; I could as easily have written you four pages as one. But my silence was an intention,’ Isabel said. ‘I thought it the best thing.’
“阻碍我的并不是写作的麻烦；而是写作的困难。”我可以轻松地给你写四页纸。但我的沉默是一种意图，”伊莎贝尔说。 “我认为这是最好的事情。”

He sat with his eyes fixed on hers while she spoke; then he lowered them and attached them to a spot in the carpet as if he were making a strong effort to say nothing but what he ought. He was a strong man in the wrong, and he was acute enough to see that an uncompromising exhibition of his strength would only throw the falsity of his position into relief. Isabel was not incapable of tasting any advantage of position over a person of this quality, and though little desirous to flaunt it in his face she could enjoy being able to say ‘You know you oughtn’t to have written to me yourself!’ and to say it with an air of triumph.
她说话时，他坐着，眼睛盯着她的眼睛。然后他把它们放下来，把它们固定在地毯上的一个地方，好像他正在努力不说任何话，只说他应该说的话。他是一个犯错的强者，他足够敏锐地看到，毫不妥协地展示自己的力量只会让他的立场的虚假性暴露无遗。伊莎贝尔并非无法品尝到与这种品质的人相比的任何地位优势，虽然不太想在他面前炫耀，但她很高兴能够说“你知道你不应该亲自给我写信！”并且带着胜利的神气说这句话。

Caspar Goodwood raised his eyes to her own again; they seemed to shine through the vizard of a helmet. He had a strong sense of justice and was ready any day in the year—over and above this—to argue the question of his rights. ‘You said you hoped never to hear from me again; I know that. But I never accepted any such rule as my own. I warned you that you should hear very soon.’
卡斯帕·古德伍德再次抬起眼睛看着她自己。它们似乎透过头盔的视野闪闪发光。他有强烈的正义感，一年中的任何一天——除此之外——都准备好争论他的权利问题。 “你说你希望再也不会收到我的消息；我知道。但我从来没有接受任何这样的规则作为我自己的规则。我警告过你，你很快就会听到。

‘I didn’t say I hoped never to hear from you,’ said Isabel.
“我并没有说我希望永远不会收到你的消息，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘Not for five years then; for ten years; twenty years. It’s the same thing.’
“那么五年就不行了；十年; 20年。这是同一件事。'

‘Do you find it so? It seems to me there’s a great difference. I can imagine that at the end of ten years we might have a very pleasant correspondence. I shall have matured my epistolary style.’
‘你觉得是这样吗？在我看来，差别很大。我可以想象，十年后我们可能会有一次非常愉快的通信。我的书信风格将会变得成熟。

She looked away while she spoke these words, knowing them of so much less earnest a cast than the countenance of her listener. Her eyes, however, at last came back to him, just as he said very irrelevantly: ‘Are you enjoying your visit to your uncle?’
当她说这些话时，她把目光移开，因为她知道这些话的表情远没有听众的表情那么认真。然而，她的目光最终又回到了他身上，而他却语无伦次地说道：“你拜访你叔叔还开心吗？”

‘Very much indeed.’ She dropped, but then she broke out. ‘What good do you expect to get by insisting?
“确实非常喜欢。”她跌倒了，但随后她爆发了。 ‘你坚持下去能得到什么好处？

‘The good of not losing you.’
“幸好没有失去你。”

‘You’ve no right to talk of losing what’s not yours. And even from your own point of view,’ Isabel added, ‘you ought to know when to let one alone.’
‘你没有权利谈论失去不属于你的东西。即使从你自己的角度来看，”伊莎贝尔补充道，“你也应该知道什么时候该放手一搏。”

‘I disgust you very much,’ said Caspar Goodwood gloomily; not as if to provoke her to compassion for a man conscious of this blighting fact, but as if to set it well before himself, so that he might endeavour to act with his eyes on it.
“我非常厌恶你，”卡斯帕·古德伍德阴郁地说。这并不是为了激起她对一个意识到这一令人痛苦的事实的男人的同情，而是仿佛将其摆在自己面前，以便他可以努力以他的眼睛采取行动。

‘Yes, you don’t at all delight me, you don’t fit in, not in any way, just now, and the worst is that your putting it to the proof in this manner is quite unnecessary.’ It wasn’t certainly as if his nature had been soft, so that pin-pricks would draw blood from it; and from the first of her acquaintance with him, and of her having to defend herself against a certain air that he had of knowing better what was good for her than she knew herself, she had recognized the fact that perfect frankness was her best weapon. To attempt to spare his sensibility or to escape from him edgewise, as one might do from a man who had barred the way less sturdily—this, in dealing with Caspar Goodwood, who would grasp at everything of every sort that one might give him, was wasted agility. It was not that he had not susceptibilities, but his passive surface, as well as his active, was large and hard, and he might always be trusted to dress his wounds, so far as they required it, himself. She came back, even for her measure of possible pangs and aches in him, to her old sense that he was naturally plated and steeled, armed essentially for aggression.
“是的，你根本不让我高兴，你不适合，无论如何，就目前而言，最糟糕的是你以这种方式证明它是完全没有必要的。”当然，就好像他的本性是柔软的，所以针刺会从他身上流血。从她第一次认识他，以及她必须保护自己免受他比她自己更了解什么对她有利的态度的影响起，她就认识到，完全的坦率是她最好的武器。试图不顾他的情感，或者从他身边逃脱，就像一个人可能会从一个不那么坚固地挡住道路的人那里做的那样——这就是在与卡斯帕·古德伍德打交道时，他会抓住别人可能给他的每一种东西，敏捷被浪费了。这并不是说他不敏感，而是他的被动表面和主动表面一样大而坚硬，而且只要有需要，他总是可以相信他会自己包扎伤口。她回来了，即使她衡量了他身上可能存在的痛苦，她也恢复了她的旧感觉，即他生来是钢铁般的，本质上是为了侵略而武装起来的。

‘I can’t reconcile myself to that,’ he simply said. There was a dangerous liberality about it; for she felt how open it was to him to make the point that he had not always disgusted her.
“我无法接受这一点，”他简单地说。这其中有一种危险的慷慨。因为她觉得他有多么开放地表明他并不总是令她厌恶。

‘I can’t reconcile myself to it either, and it’s not the state of things that ought to exist between us. If you’d only try to banish me from your mind for a few months we should be on good terms again.’
“我也无法接受，这不是我们之间应该存在的状态。如果你只想在几个月内把我从你的脑海中驱逐出去，我们应该会再次和好如初。”

‘I see. If I should cease to think of you at all for a prescribed time, I should find I could keep it up indefinitely.’
'我懂了。如果我在规定的时间内完全不再想起你，我会发现我可以无限期地保持下去。

‘Indefinitely is more than I ask. It’s more even than I should like.’
“无限期比我要求的要多。这比我想要的更均匀。

‘You know that what you ask is impossible,’ said the young man, taking his adjective for granted in a manner she found irritating.
“你知道你所要求的是不可能的，”年轻人说，把他的形容词视为理所当然，她觉得很恼火。

‘Aren’t you capable of making a calculated effort?’ she demanded. ‘You’re strong for everything else; why shouldn’t you be strong for that?’
“你难道没有能力做出有计划的努力吗？”她问道。 ‘你在其他方面都很坚强；为什么你不应该坚强起来呢？

‘An effort calculated for what?’ And then as she hung fire, ‘I’m capable of nothing with regard to you,’ he went on, ‘but just of being infernally in love with you. If one’s strong one loves only the more strongly.’
“为了什么而付出的努力？”然后，当她挂起怒火时，“我对你无能为力，”他继续说道，“除了地狱般地爱着你。”如果一个人坚强，他就会爱得更强烈。

‘There’s a good deal in that”; and indeed our young lady felt the force of it—felt it thrown off, into the vast of truth and poetry, as practically a bait to her imagination. But she promptly came round. ‘Think of me or not, as you find most possible; only leave me alone.’
“这其中有很多好处”；事实上，我们的年轻女士感受到了它的力量——感觉它被抛入了浩瀚的真理和诗歌中，实际上是她想象力的诱饵。但她很快就回过神来。 ‘无论你是否想我，你都觉得最有可能；就让我一个人呆着吧。

‘Until when?’
'到什么时候？'

‘Well, for a year or two.’
“嗯，一两年吧。”

‘Which do you mean? Between one year and two there’s all the difference in the world.’
‘你什么意思？一年和两年之间有天壤之别。

‘Call it two then,’ said Isabel with a studied effect of eagerness.
“那就说二吧，”伊莎贝尔说道，脸上带着刻意的渴望。

‘And what shall I gain by that?’ her friend asked with no sign of wincing.
“那我能得到什么好处呢？”她的朋友问道，脸上没有任何退缩的迹象。

‘You’ll have obliged me greatly.’
“你真是太感激我了。”

‘And what will be my reward?’
“那么我的奖励是什么？”

‘Do you need a reward for an act of generosity?’
“你的慷慨行为需要奖励吗？”

‘Yes, when it involves a great sacrifice.’
“是的，当它涉及到巨大的牺牲时。”

‘There’s no generosity without some sacrifice. Men don’t understand such things. If you make the sacrifice you’ll have all my admiration.’
‘没有一些牺牲就没有慷慨。男人不明白这些事情。如果你做出牺牲，我就会钦佩你。”

‘I don’t care a cent for your admiration—not one straw, with nothing to show for it. When will you marry me? That’s the only question.’
“我对你的钦佩一分钱都不在乎——连一根稻草也没有，没有什么可表现的。”你什么时候嫁给我？这是唯一的问题。

‘Never—if you go on making me feel only as I feel at present.’
“永远不会——如果你继续让我感觉就像我现在的感觉一样。”

‘What do I gain then by not trying to make you feel otherwise?’
“那么，如果我不试图让你有不同的感觉，我能得到什么好处呢？”

‘You’ll gain quite as much as by worrying me to death!’ Caspar Goodwood bent his eyes again and gazed a while into the crown of his hat. A deep flush overspread his face; she could see her sharpness had at last penetrated. This immediately had a value—classic, romantic, redeeming, what did she know?—for her; ‘the strong man in pain’ was one of the categories of the human appeal, little charm as he might exert in the given case. ‘Why do you make me say such things to you?’ she cried in a trembling voice. ‘I only want to be gentle—to be thoroughly kind. It’s not delightful to me to feel people care for me and yet to have to try and reason them out of it. I think others also ought to be considerate; we have each to judge for ourselves. I know you’re considerate, as much as you can be; you’ve good reasons for what you do. But I really don’t want to marry, or to talk about it at all now. I shall probably never do it—no, never. I’ve a perfect right to feel that way, and it’s no kindness to a woman to press her so hard, to urge her against her will. If I give you pain I can only say I’m very sorry. It’s not my fault; I can’t marry you simply to please you. I won’t say that I shall always remain your friend, because when women say that, in these situations, it passes, I believe, for a sort of mockery. But try me some day.’
“你的收获和让我担心死一样多！”卡斯帕·古德伍德再次弯下眼睛，凝视着他的帽冠。他的脸上泛起深深的红晕。她可以看到她的敏锐终于渗透了。这对她来说立刻就有了价值——经典、浪漫、救赎，她知道什么？ “痛苦中的强者”是人类吸引力的类别之一，在特定情况下他可能发挥不出什么魅力。 “你为什么要让我对你说这样的话？”她用颤抖的声音喊道。 “我只想变得温柔——彻底友善。对我来说，感受到人们关心我却又不得不试图说服他们不要这样做，这并不令人高兴。我觉得别人也应该体谅一下；我们每个人都有自己的判断。我知道你很体贴，尽你所能；你所做的事情有充分的理由。但我真的不想结婚，或者现在根本不想谈论它。我可能永远不会这么做——不，永远不会。我完全有权利有这种感觉，对一个女人施加如此大的压力，违背她的意愿，这对她来说是不仁慈的。如果我给你带来了痛苦，我只能说我很抱歉。这不是我的错;我不能仅仅为了取悦你而嫁给你。我不会说我将永远是你的朋友，因为当女人在这种情况下这么说时，我相信，这是一种嘲笑。但有一天试试我。

Caspar Goodwood, during this speech, had kept his eyes fixed upon the name of his hatter, and it was not until some time after she had ceased speaking that he raised them. When he did so the sight of a rosy, lovely eagerness in Isabel’s face threw some confusion into his attempt to analyze her words. ‘I’ll go home—I’ll go to-morrowI’ll leave you alone,’ he brought out at last. ‘Only,’ he heavily said, ‘I hate to lose sight of you!’
卡斯帕·古德伍德在演讲期间一直盯着帽匠的名字，直到她停止讲话一段时间后，他才抬起了眼睛。当他这样做时，看到伊莎贝尔脸上红润可爱的热切表情，让他试图分析她的话时感到有些困惑。 “我要回家了——我明天就去，我就不打扰你了，”他最后说道。 “只是，”他沉重地说，“我讨厌失去你！”

‘Never fear. I shall do no harm.’
'从不畏惧。我不会做任何伤害的事情。

‘You’ll marry some one else, as sure as I sit here,’ Caspar Goodwood declared.
“你会嫁给别人，就像我坐在这里一样，”卡斯帕·古德伍德宣称。

‘Do you think that a generous charge?’
“你认为这个收费很慷慨吗？”

‘Why not? Plenty of men will try to make you.’
'为什么不？很多男人会试图逼迫你。

‘I told you just now that I don’t wish to marry and that I almost certainly never shall.’
“我刚才告诉过你，我不想结婚，而且几乎可以肯定我永远不会结婚。”

‘I know you did, and I like your ‘almost certainly’! I put no faith in what you say.’
“我知道你做到了，我喜欢你的‘几乎肯定’！”我不相信你说的话。

‘Thank you very much. Do you accuse me of lying to shake you off? You say very delicate things.’
'非常感谢。你指责我撒谎是为了摆脱你吗？你说的话非常微妙。

‘Why should I not say that? You’ve given me no pledge of anything at all.’
‘为什么我不应该这么说？你根本没有向我做出任何承诺。

‘No, that’s all that would be wanting!’
“不，这就是我们想要的一切！”

‘You may perhaps even believe you’re safe—from wishing to be. But you’re not,’ the young man went on as if preparing himself for the worst.
“你甚至可能相信自己是安全的——但其实你并不希望如此。”但你不是，”年轻人继续说道，仿佛已经做好了最坏的打算。

‘Very well then. We’ll put it that I’m not safe. Have it as you please.’
'那好吧。我们会说我不安全。随意吧。

‘I don’t know, however,’ said Caspar Goodwood, ‘that my keeping you in sight would prevent it.’
“不过，我不知道，”卡斯帕·古德伍德说，“我让你在我的视线范围内就能阻止这件事的发生。”

‘Don’t you indeed? I’m after all very much afraid of you. Do you think I’m so very easily pleased?’ she asked suddenly, changing her tone.
‘你确实不这么认为吗？毕竟我很怕你。你以为我这么容易高兴吗？”她突然改变语气问道。

‘No—I don’t; I shall try to console myself with that. But there are a certain number of very dazzling men in the world, no doubt; and if there were only one it would be enough. The most dazzling of all will make straight for you. You’ll be sure to take no one who isn’t dazzling.’
“不——我不；”我会试着以此来安慰自己。但毫无疑问，世界上有一定数量的非常耀眼的男人；如果只有一个就足够了。其中最耀眼的将直接为您服务。你一定不会选一个不耀眼的人。

‘If you mean by dazzling brilliantly clever,’ Isabel said—‘and I can’t imagine what else you mean—I don’t need the aid of a clever man to teach me how to live. I can find it out for myself.’
“如果你的意思是令人眼花缭乱的聪明，”伊莎贝尔说——“我无法想象你的其他意思——我不需要聪明人的帮助来教我如何生活。我可以自己找出来。

‘Find out how to live alone? I wish that, when you have, you’d teach me!’
‘了解如何独自生活？我希望，当你学会了之后，你能教我！”

She looked at him a moment; then with a quick smile, ‘Oh, you ought to marry!’ she said.
她看了他一会儿。然后她迅速微笑着说：“哦，你应该结婚！”

He might be pardoned if for an instant this exclamation seemed to him to sound the infernal note, and it is not on record that her motive for discharging such a shaft had been of the clearest. He oughtn’t to stride about lean and hungry, however—she certainly felt that for him. ‘God forgive you!’ he murmured between his teeth as he turned away.
如果他觉得这声惊呼有那么一瞬间听起来像是地狱般的音调，他可能会被原谅，而且没有记录表明她发射这样一箭的动机是最明确的。然而，他不应该又瘦又饿地大步走——她确实对他有这种感觉。 “上帝宽恕你！”他转身离开时从牙缝里低声说道。

Her accent had put her slightly in the wrong, and after a moment she felt the need to right herself. The easiest way to do it was to place him where she had been. ‘You do me great injustice—you say what you don’t know!’ she broke out. ‘I shouldn’t be an easy victim—I’ve proved it.’
她的口音让她有点不对劲，过了一会儿，她觉得有必要纠正自己。最简单的方法就是把他放在她原来所在的地方。 “你对我太不公平了——你说你不知道的事！”她大声说道。 “我不应该轻易成为受害者——我已经证明了这一点。”

‘Oh, to me, perfectly.’
“哦，对我来说，完美。”

‘I’ve proved it to others as well.’ And she paused a moment. ‘I refused a proposal of marriage last week; what they call—no doubta dazzling one.’
“我也向其他人证明了这一点。”她停顿了一下。 “上周我拒绝了求婚；他们所说的——毫无疑问是令人眼花缭乱的。

‘I’m very glad to hear it,’ said the young man gravely.
“我很高兴听到这个消息，”年轻人严肃地说。

‘It was a proposal many girls would have accepted; it had everything to recommend it.’ Isabel had not proposed to herself to tell this story, but, now she had begun, the satisfaction of speaking it out and doing herself justice took possession of her. ‘I was offered a great position and a great fortune—by a person whom I like extremely.’
“这是一个很多女孩都会接受的提议；伊莎贝尔原本并没有打算讲这个故事，但现在她已经开始了，她为说出来并公正地对待自己而感到满足。 “一个我非常喜欢的人为我提供了一个很好的职位和一笔巨大的财富。”

Caspar watched her with intense interest. ‘Is he an Englishman?’
卡斯帕饶有兴趣地看着她。 “他是英国人吗？”

‘He’s an English nobleman,’ said Isabel.
“他是一位英国贵族，”伊莎贝尔说。

Her visitor received this announcement at first in silence, but at last said: ‘I’m glad he’s disappointed.’
她的来访者起初默默地收到了这一消息，但最后说道：“我很高兴他感到失望。”

‘Well then, as you have companions in misfortune, make the best of it.’
“那么，既然你有不幸的同伴，那就好好利用它吧。”

‘I don’t call him a companion,’ said Caspar grimly.
“我不称他为同伴，”卡斯帕冷酷地说。

‘Why not—since I declined his offer absolutely?’
“既然我断然拒绝了他的提议，为什么不呢？”

‘That doesn’t make him my companion. Besides, he’s an Englishman.’
‘这并不能让他成为我的同伴。此外，他是英国人。

‘And pray isn’t an Englishman a human being?’ Isabel asked.
“请问英国人不是人吗？”伊莎贝尔问道。

‘Oh, those people? They’re not of my humanity, and I don’t care what becomes of them.’
‘噢，那些人？他们不属于我的人性，我不在乎他们会怎样。

‘You’re very angry,’ said the girl. ‘We’ve discussed this matter quite enough.’
女孩说：“你很生气。” “我们已经足够讨论这个问题了。”

‘Oh yes, I’m very angry. I plead guilty to that!’
‘哦，是的，我很生气。我对此认罪！

She turned away from him, walked to the open window and stood a moment looking into the dusky void of the street, where a turbid gaslight alone represented social animation. For some time neither of these young persons spoke; Caspar lingered near the chimney-piece with eyes gloomily attached. She had virtually requested him to go—he knew that; but at the risk of making himself odious he kept his ground. She was too nursed a need to be easily renounced, and he had crossed the sea all to wring from her some scrap of a vow. Presently she left the window and stood again before him. ‘You do me very little justice—after my telling you what I told you just now. I’m sorry I told you—since it matters so little to you.’
她转过身去，走到开着的窗户前，站了一会儿，望着昏暗的街道，那里只有一盏浑浊的煤气灯代表着社交活力。有一段时间，这两个年轻人都没有说话。卡斯帕在烟囱附近徘徊，眼神阴郁。她实际上是在请求他走——他知道这一点；他知道这一点。但他冒着让自己变得可憎的风险，坚持自己的立场。她太需要照顾了，不能轻易放弃，而他远渡重洋，就是为了从她身上榨取一些誓言。不久，她离开了窗户，再次站在他面前。 “在我告诉你我刚才告诉你的事情之后，你对我太不公平了。”很抱歉我告诉了你——因为这对你来说太不重要了。

‘Ah,’ cried the young man, ‘if you were thinking of me when you did it!’ And then he paused with the fear that she might contradict so happy a thought.
“啊，”年轻人喊道，“如果你这么做的时候心里想着我就好了！”然后他停了下来，生怕她会反驳如此快乐的想法。

‘I was thinking of you a little,’ said Isabel.
“我有点想你了，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘A little? I don’t understand. If the knowledge of what I feel for you had any weight with you at all, calling it a ‘little’ is a poor account of it.’
'一点？我不明白。如果我对你的感觉对你有任何影响的话，称其为“一点”是一个糟糕的说法。

Isabel shook her head as if to carry off a blunder. ‘I’ve refused a most kind, noble gentleman. Make the most of that.’
伊莎贝尔摇了摇头，仿佛要弥补一个错误。 “我拒绝了一位最善良、最高贵的绅士。充分利用这一点。

‘I thank you then,’ said Caspar Goodwood gravely. ‘I thank you immensely.’
“那我谢谢你了，”卡斯帕·古德伍德严肃地说。 “我非常感谢你。”

‘And now you had better go home.’
“现在你最好回家了。”

‘May I not see you again?’ he asked.
“我可以再见到你吗？”他问道。

‘I think it’s better not. You’ll be sure to talk of this, and you see it leads to nothing.’
‘我认为最好不要。你一定会谈论这个，但你会发现它毫无结果。

‘I promise you not to say a word that will annoy you.’
“我向你保证，不会说任何让你烦恼的话。”

Isabel reflected and then answered: ‘I return in a day or two to my uncle’s, and I can’t propose to you to come there. It would be too inconsistent.’
伊莎贝尔想了想，然后回答道：“我一两天后就会回到我叔叔家，我不能建议你去那里。这太不一致了。

Caspar Goodwood, on his side, considered. ‘You must do me justice too. I received an invitation to your uncle’s more than a week ago, and I declined it.’
卡斯帕·古德伍德站在他这边考虑着。 ‘你也必须公正地对待我。一个多星期前我收到了去你叔叔家的邀请，但我拒绝了。”

She betrayed surprise. ‘From whom was your invitation?’
她流露出惊讶之色。 “你的邀请函是谁发的？”

‘From Mr. Ralph Touchett, whom I suppose to be your cousin. I declined it because I had not your authorization to accept it. The suggestion that Mr. Touchett should invite me appeared to have come from Miss Stackpole.’
“拉尔夫·图切特先生寄来的，我想他是你的表弟。”我拒绝了，因为我没有得到你的授权接受它。塔克特先生应该邀请我的建议似乎是斯塔克波尔小姐提出的。

‘It certainly never did from me. Henrietta really goes very far,’ Isabel added.
“我当然从来没有这样做过。亨利埃塔确实走得很远，”伊莎贝尔补充道。

‘Don’t be too hard on her—that touches me.’
“别对她太严厉——这让我很感动。”

‘No; if you declined you did quite right, and I thank you for it.’ And she gave a little shudder of dismay at the thought that Lord Warburton and Mr. Goodwood might have met at Gardencourt: it would have been so awkward for Lord Warburton.
'不;想到沃伯顿勋爵和古德伍德先生可能会在花园考特见面，她就感到有点沮丧：这对沃伯顿勋爵来说会很尴尬。

‘When you leave your uncle where do you go?’ her companion asked.
“当你离开你叔叔后，你会去哪里？”她的同伴问。

‘I go abroad with my aunt—to Florence and other places.’
“我和姨妈一起出国——去佛罗伦萨和其他地方。”

The serenity of this announcement struck a chill to the young man’s heart; he seemed to see her whirled away into circles from which he was inexorably excluded. Nevertheless he went on quickly with his questions. ‘And when shall you come back to America?’
这则平静的宣告让年轻人的心感到一阵寒意。他似乎看到她转入了自己被无情地排除在外的圈子。尽管如此，他还是很快地继续提出问题。 “那你什么时候回美国？”

‘Perhaps not for a long time. I’m very happy here.’
'也许不会很长一段时间。我在这里很开心。

‘Do you mean to give up your country?’
“你想放弃你的国家吗？”

‘Don’t be an infant!’
“别再像个婴儿了！”

‘Well, you’ll be out of my sight indeed!’ said Caspar Goodwood.
“好吧，你确实会离开我的视线！”卡斯帕·古德伍德说。

‘I don’t know,’ she answered rather grandly. ‘The world—with all these places so arranged and so touching each other—comes to strike one as rather small.’
“我不知道，”她相当堂皇地回答。 “世界——所有这些地方如此排列，如此相互接触——让人觉得相当小。”

‘It’s a sight too big for me!’ Caspar exclaimed with a simplicity our young lady might have found touching if her face had not been set against concessions.
“这对我来说太大了！”卡斯帕简单地喊道，如果我们的年轻女士脸上没有做出让步的话，她可能会觉得很感动。

This attitude was part of a system, a theory, that she had lately embraced, and to be thorough she said after a moment: ‘Don’t think me unkind if I say it’s just that—being out of your sight—that I like. If you were in the same place I should feel you were watching me, and I don’t like that—I like my liberty too much. If there’s a thing in the world I’m fond of,’ she went on with a slight recurrence of grandeur, ‘it’s my personal independence.’
这种态度是她最近接受的一个系统、一个理论的一部分，说得更彻底一些，她过了一会儿说道：“如果我说这只是——离开你的视线——我喜欢，请不要认为我不友善。” 。如果你在同一个地方，我会觉得你在看着我，但我不喜欢这样——我太喜欢我的自由了。如果世界上有什么东西是我喜欢的，”她继续说道，语气中又带着一丝庄严，“那就是我的个人独立。”

But whatever there might be of the too superior in this speech moved Caspar Goodwood’s admiration; there was nothing he winced at in the large air of it. He had never supposed she hadn’t wings and the need of beautiful free movements—he wasn’t, with his own long arms and strides, afraid of any force in her. Isabel’s words, if they had been meant to shock him, failed of the mark and only made him smile with the sense that here was common ground. ‘Who would wish less to curtail your liberty than I? What can give me greater pleasure than to see you perfectly independent—doing whatever you like? It’s to make you independent that I want to marry you.
但无论这次演讲中可能有什么过于优越的地方，都让卡斯帕·古德伍德感到钦佩。在这浩瀚的空气中，他没有任何畏缩的感觉。他从来没有想到她没有翅膀，也没有需要美丽的自由动作——他有长长的手臂和大步，并不害怕她身上的任何力量。伊莎贝尔的话，如果是为了让他震惊的话，却没有达到目的，只是让他微笑，觉得这是共同点。 ‘谁会比我更不愿意限制你的自由呢？还有什么比看到你完全独立——做你喜欢做的事更让我高兴的呢？我之所以要娶你，是为了让你独立。

‘That’s a beautiful sophism,’ said the girl with a smile more beautiful still.
“这真是一个美丽的诡辩。”女孩微笑着说，笑容更美丽了。

‘An ummarried woman—a girl of your age—isn’t independent. There are all sorts of things she can’t do. She’s hampered at every step.’
“未婚女性——像你这个年纪的女孩——并不独立。有各种各样的事情是她做不到的。她每一步都受到阻碍。

‘That’s as she looks at the question,’ Isabel answered with much spirit. not in my first youth—I can do what I choose—I belong quite to the independent class. I’ve neither father nor mother; I’m poor and of a serious disposition; I’m not pretty. I therefore am not bound to be timid and conventional; indeed I can’t afford such luxuries. Besides, I try to judge things for myself; to judge wrong, I think, is more honourable than not to judge at all. I don’t wish to be a mere sheep in the flock; I wish to choose my fate and know something of human affairs beyond what other people think it compatible with propriety to tell me.’ She paused a moment, but not long enough for her companion to reply. He was apparently on the point of doing so when she went on: ‘Let me say this to you, Mr. Goodwood. You’re so kind as to speak of being afraid of my marrying. If you should hear a rumour that I’m on the point of doing so—girls are liable to have such things said about them—remember what I have told you about my love of liberty and venture to doubt it.’
“她就是这么看待这个问题的。”伊莎贝尔精神抖擞地回答道。不是在我的青春期——我可以做我选择的事情——我完全属于独立阶级。我既没有父亲，也没有母亲；我出身贫寒，性格严肃；我不漂亮。因此，我并不一定是胆怯和守旧的；我确实买不起这样的奢侈品。此外，我尝试自己判断事情；我认为，做出错误的判断比根本不做出判断更光荣。我不想只做羊群中的一只羊；我希望选择自己的命运，了解一些别人认为不应该告诉我的人类事务。”她停顿了一下，但时间不足以让她的同伴回答。当她继续说道时，他显然正要这样做：“让我对你说这个，古德伍德先生。”你真好心，竟然说害怕我结婚。如果你听到谣言说我正要这样做——女孩们很容易被这样说——记住我告诉过你的关于我对自由的热爱，并大胆地怀疑它。

There was something passionately positive in the tone in which she gave him this advice, and he saw a shining candour in her eyes that helped him to believe her. On the whole he felt reassured, and you might have perceived it by the manner in which he said, quite eagerly: ‘You want simply to travel for two years? I’m quite willing to wait two years, and you may do what you like in the interval. If that’s all you want, pray say so. I don’t want you to be conventional; do I strike you as conventional myself? Do you want to improve your mind? Your mind’s quite good enough for me; but if it interests you to wander about a while and see different countries I shall be delighted to help you in any way in my power.’
她给他建议的语气中充满了热情和积极的气息，他在她的眼中看到了闪烁的坦诚，这让他相信了她。总的来说，他感到很安心，从他非常热切地说：“你只是想旅行两年？我很愿意等两年，中间你可以做你喜欢的事。如果这就是你想要的，请祈祷吧。我不希望你墨守成规；你觉得我自己很传统吗？你想提高你的思想吗？你的心思对我来说已经够好了；但如果您有兴趣去闲逛一段时间，看看不同的国家，我将很乐意在力所能及的范围内为您提供帮助。

‘You’re very generous; that’s nothing new to me. The best way to help me will be to put as many hundred miles of sea between us as possible.’
'您非常慷慨;这对我来说不是什么新鲜事。帮助我的最好方法就是在我们之间尽可能隔开数百英里的海洋。”

‘One would think you were going to commit some atrocity!’ said Caspar Goodwood.
“人们会认为你会犯下一些暴行！”卡斯帕·古德伍德说道。

‘Perhaps I am. I wish to be free even to do that if the fancy takes me.’
'也许我是。如果我愿意的话，我什至希望能够自由地这样做。

‘Well then,’ he said slowly, ‘I’ll go home.’ And he put out his hand, trying to look contented and confident.
“那么，”他慢慢地说，“我要回家了。”然后他伸出手，试图表现出满足和自信的样子。

Isabel’s confidence in him, however, was greater than any he could feel in her. Not that he thought her capable of committing an atrocity; but, turn it over as he would, there was something ominous in the way she reserved her option. As she took his hand she felt a great respect for him; she knew how much he cared for her and she thought him magnanimous. They stood so for a moment, looking at each other, united by a hand-clasp which was not merely passive on her side. ‘That’s right,’ she said very kindly, almost tenderly. ‘You’ll lose nothing by being a reasonable man.’
然而，伊莎贝尔对他的信心比他对她的信心还要大。并不是说他认为她有能力犯下暴行；而是说她认为她有能力犯下暴行。但是，正如他所愿，她保留选择的方式有些不祥。当她握住他的手时，她对他产生了极大的尊重。她知道他有多么关心她，她认为他很宽宏大量。他们就这么站了一会儿，互相看着对方，紧紧地握着手，而她这一边不仅仅是被动的。 “是的，”她非常友善，几乎是温柔地说。 “做一个讲道理的人不会给你带来任何损失。”

‘But I’ll come back, wherever you are, two years hence,’ he returned with characteristic grimness.
“但无论你在哪里，两年后我都会回来的，”他带着特有的冷酷回答道。

We have seen that our young lady was inconsequent, and at this she suddenly changed her note. ‘Ah, remember, I promise nothingabsolutely nothing!’ Then more softly, as if to help him to leave her: ‘And remember too that I shall not be an easy victim!’
我们看到小姐说话不合时宜，突然就改口了。 “啊，记住，我不会承诺任何事情，绝对不会！”然后声音更加轻柔，仿佛要帮助他离开她：“还要记住，我不会轻易成为受害者！”

‘You’ll get very sick of your independence.’
“你会厌倦自己的独立性。”

‘Perhaps I shall; it’s even very probable. When that day comes I shall be very glad to see you.’
‘也许我会；甚至很有可能。当那一天到来时，我会很高兴见到你。

She had laid her hand on the knob of the door that led into her room, and she waited a moment to see whether her visitor would not take his departure. But he appeared unable to move; there was still an immense unwillingness in his attitude and a sore remonstrance in his eyes. ‘I must leave you now,’ said Isabel; and she opened the door and passed into the other room.
她把手放在通往她房间的门把手上，等了一会儿，看看她的客人是否不肯离开。但他似乎无法动弹。他的态度中仍然带着极大的不甘，眼中仍然带着强烈的抗议。 “我现在必须离开你了，”伊莎贝尔说。她打开门，走进另一个房间。

This apartment was dark, but the darkness was tempered by a vague radiance sent up through the window from the court of the hotel, and Isabel could make out the masses of the furniture, the dim shining of the mirror and the looming of the big four-posted bed. She stood still a moment, listening, and at last she heard Caspar Goodwood walk out of the sitting-room and close the door behind him. She stood still a little longer, and then, by an irresistible impulse, dropped on her knees before her bed and hid her face in her arms.
这间公寓很黑，但酒店庭院透过窗户射出的模糊光芒使黑暗变得柔和，伊莎贝尔可以辨认出大量的家具、镜子的微光和四巨头的若隐若现。 -张贴床。她静静地站了一会儿，听着，最后她听到卡斯帕·古德伍德走出客厅，关上了身后的门。她又站了一会儿，然后，出于一种不可抗拒的冲动，她跪在床前，把脸埋进怀里。

Chapter 17
第17章

She was not praying; she was trembling—trembling all over. Vibration was easy to her, was in fact too constant with her, and she found herself now humming like a smitten harp. She only asked, however, to put on the cover, to case herself again in brown holland, but she wished to resist her excitement, and the attitude of devotion, which she kept for some time, seemed to help her to be still. She intensely rejoiced that Caspar Goodwood was gone; there was something in having thus got rid of him that was like the payment, for a stamped receipt, of some debt too long on her mind. As she felt the glad relief she bowed her head a little lower; the sense was there, throbbing in her heart; it was part of her emotion, but it was a thing to be ashamed of—it was profane and out of place. It was not for some ten minutes that she rose from her knees, and even when she came back to the sitting-room her tremor had not quite subsided. It had had, verily, two causes: part of it was to be accounted for by her long discussion with Mr. Goodwood, but it might be feared that the rest was simply the enjoyment she found in the exercise of her power. She sat down in the same chair again and took up her book, but without going through the form of opening the volume. She leaned back, with that low, soft, aspiring murmur with which she often uttered her response to accidents of which the brighter side was not superficially obvious, and yielded to the satisfaction of having refused two ardent suitors in a fortnight. That love of liberty of which she had given Caspar Goodwood so bold a sketch was as yet almost exclusively theoretic; she had not been able to indulge it on a large scale. But it appeared to her she had done something; she had tasted of the delight, if not of battle, at least of victory; she had done what was truest to her plan. In the glow of this consciousness the image of Mr. Goodwood taking his sad walk homeward through the dingy town presented itself with a certain reproachful force; so that, as at the same moment the door of the room was opened, she rose with an apprehension that he had come back. But it was only Henrietta Stackpole returning from her dinner.
她不是在祈祷，而是在祈祷。她在颤抖——浑身颤抖。振动对她来说很容易，事实上，振动对她来说太持续了，她发现自己现在像一把被击碎的竖琴一样嗡嗡作响。然而，她只是要求盖上被子，再次穿上棕色荷兰衣，但她希望抑制住自己的兴奋，而她保持了一段时间的虔诚态度似乎帮助她平静下来。卡斯帕·古德伍德的去世让她感到非常高兴。如此摆脱了他，就像是为了一张盖章的收据，还清了她心中长久以来的一些债务。当她感到高兴地松了口气时，她把头低得更低了。这种感觉就在那里，在她的心中悸动；这是她情感的一部分，但这是一件值得羞耻的事情——它是亵渎的，不合时宜的。过了十多分钟，她才从膝盖上站起来，即使回到客厅，她的颤抖也没有完全平息。确实，有两个原因：一部分是她与古德伍德先生的长时间讨论造成的，但可能担心其余的只是她在行使权力时发现的乐趣。她又坐到了同一张椅子上，拿起了书本，但没有采取打开书本的形式。她向后靠去，用那种低沉、柔和、充满渴望的低语，她经常用这种低语来表达对意外事件的反应，而这些意外事件的光明面并不明显，并且在两周内拒绝了两个热心的追求者，她感到满意。她给卡斯帕·古德伍德如此大胆地勾勒出的对自由的热爱几乎完全是理论上的。她还没能大规模地放纵。 但在她看来，她似乎做了一些事情；她尝到了喜悦的滋味，即使不是战斗，至少也尝到了胜利的滋味。她做了最符合她计划的事情。在这种意识的光芒中，古德伍德先生悲伤地穿过肮脏的小镇回家的形象呈现出某种责备的力量。因此，就在房门打开的同时，她站了起来，担心他回来了。但只有亨丽埃塔·斯塔克波尔吃完晚饭回来。

Miss Stackpole immediately saw that our young lady had been ‘through’ something, and indeed the discovery demanded no great penetration. She went straight up to her friend, who received her without a greeting. Isabel’s elation in having sent Caspar Goodwood back to America presupposed her being in a manner glad he had come to see her; but at the same time she perfectly remembered Henrietta had had no right to set a trap for her. ‘Has he been here, dear?’ the latter yearningly asked.
斯塔克波尔小姐立即看出我们的年轻女士已经“经历”了一些事情，而且事实上这个发现不需要太多的洞察力。她径直走向她的朋友，朋友没有打招呼就接待了她。伊莎贝尔把卡斯帕·古德伍德送回美国而感到高兴，这预示着她对他来看望她感到高兴。但同时她又清楚地记得亨丽埃塔没有权利为她设下陷阱。 “亲爱的，他来过这里吗？”后者渴望地问道。

Isabel turned away and for some moments answered nothing. ‘You acted very wrongly,’ she declared at last.
伊莎贝尔转过身去，好一会儿没有回答。 “你的行为非常错误，”她最后宣称。

‘I acted for the best. I only hope you acted as well.’
‘我的表现是最好的。我只希望你也这么做。

‘You’re not the judge. I can’t trust you,’ said Isabel.
‘你不是法官。我不能相信你，”伊莎贝尔说。

This declaration was unflattering, but Henrietta was much too unselfish to heed the charge it conveyed; she cared only for what it intimated with regard to her friend. ‘Isabel Archer,’ she observed with equal abruptness and solemnity, ‘if you marry one of these people I’ll never speak to you again!’
这个声明并不讨人喜欢，但亨利埃塔太无私了，没有注意到它所传达的指责；她只关心它对她朋友的暗示。 “伊莎贝尔·阿切尔，”她同样唐突而严肃地说道，“如果你嫁给这些人中的一个，我就再也不会和你说话了！”

‘Before making so terrible a threat you had better wait till I’m asked,’ Isabel replied. Never having said a word to Miss Stackpole about Lord Warburton’s overtures, she had now no impulse whatever to justify herself to Henrietta by telling her that she had refused that nobleman.
“在做出如此可怕的威胁之前，你最好先等我开口，”伊莎贝尔回答道。她从来没有向斯塔克波尔小姐说过沃伯顿勋爵的提议，现在她没有任何冲动去告诉亨丽埃塔她拒绝了那位贵族，从而为自己辩护。

‘Oh, you’ll be asked quick enough, once you get off on the Continent. Annie Climber was asked three times in Italy—poor plain little Annie.’
“哦，一旦你到达欧洲大陆，很快就会有人问你。安妮·克莱伯在意大利被问了三次——可怜的普通小安妮。

‘Well, if Annie Climber wasn’t captured why should I be?’
“好吧，如果安妮·克莱伯没有被抓，我为什么要被抓呢？”

‘I don’t believe Annie was pressed; but you’ll be.’
“我不相信安妮受到压力；但你会的。

‘That’s a flattering conviction,’ said Isabel without alarm.
“这是一个令人高兴的信念，”伊莎贝尔毫无惊慌地说。

‘I don’t flatter you, Isabel, I tell you the truth!’ cried her friend. ‘I hope you don’t mean to tell me that you didn’t give Mr. Goodwood some hope.’
“我不是在恭维你，伊莎贝尔，我告诉你真相！”她的朋友喊道。 “我希望你不是故意告诉我你没有给古德伍德先生带来希望。”

‘I don’t see why I should tell you anything; as I said to you just now, I can’t trust you. But since you’re so much interested in Mr. Goodwood I won’t conceal from you that he returns immediately to America.’
“我不明白为什么我应该告诉你任何事情；正如我刚才对你所说的，我不能相信你。但既然你对古德伍德先生这么感兴趣，我就不会向你隐瞒他会立即返回美国。”

‘You don’t mean to say you’ve sent him off? ‘ Henrietta almost shrieked.
“你的意思不是说你已经送走了他吗？ ”亨利埃塔几乎尖叫起来。

‘I asked him to leave me alone; and I ask you the same, Henrietta.’ Miss Stackpole glittered for an instant with dismay and then passed to the mirror over the chimney-piece and took off her bonnet. ‘I hope you’ve enjoyed your dinner,’ Isabel went on.
“我请求他别打扰我；我也问你同样的问题，亨利埃塔。” 斯塔克波尔小姐沮丧地闪现出一瞬间的光芒，然后走到烟囱上方的镜子前，摘下帽子。 “我希望你吃得愉快，”伊莎贝尔继续说道。

But her companion was not to be diverted by frivolous propositions. ‘Do you know where you’re going, Isabel Archer?’
但她的同伴不会被无聊的提议所困扰。 “你知道你要去哪里吗，伊莎贝尔·阿切尔？”

‘Just now I’m going to bed,’ said Isabel with persistent frivolity.
“我现在要睡觉了，”伊莎贝尔总是轻浮地说。

‘Do you know where you’re drifting?’ Henrietta pursued, holding out her bonnet delicately.
“你知道你在漂流到哪里吗？”亨丽埃塔问道，精致地伸出了帽子。

‘No, I haven’t the least idea, and I find it very pleasant not to know. A swift carriage, of a dark night, rattling with four horses over roads that one can’t see—that’s my idea of happiness.’
“不，我一点也不知道，而且我觉得不知道很高兴。漆黑的夜晚，一辆疾驰的马车，载着四匹马，在看不见的道路上嘎嘎作响——这就是我对幸福的理解。

‘Mr. Goodwood certainly didn’t teach you to say such things as thatlike the heroine of an immoral novel,’ said Miss Stackpole. ‘You’re drifting to some great mistake.’
'先生。古德伍德当然没有教你像不道德小说中的女主角那样说这种话。”斯塔克波尔小姐说。 “你正在犯一个大错误。”

Isabel was irritated by her friend’s interference, yet she still tried to think what truth this declaration could represent. She could think of nothing that diverted her from saying: ‘You must be very fond of me, Henrietta, to be willing to be so aggressive.’
伊莎贝尔对朋友的干涉感到恼火，但她仍然试图思考这个宣言能代表什么真相。她想不出有什么可以阻止她说：“你一定非常喜欢我，亨利埃塔，才会愿意如此咄咄逼人。”

‘I love you intensely, Isabel,’ said Miss Stackpole with feeling.
“我非常爱你，伊莎贝尔，”斯塔克波尔小姐深有感触地说。

‘Well, if you love me intensely let me as intensely alone. I asked that of Mr. Goodwood, and I must also ask it of you.’
“好吧，如果你强烈地爱我，就让我也强烈地独自一人吧。”我向古德伍德先生提出了这个问题，我也必须向你提出这个问题。

‘Take care you’re not let alone too much.’
“小心一点，不要太过分。”

‘That’s what Mr. Goodwood said to me. I told him I must take the risks.’
“古德伍德先生就是这么对我说的。”我告诉他我必须冒险。

‘You’re a creature of risks—you make me shudder!’ cried Henrietta. ‘When does Mr. Goodwood return to America?’
“你是个爱冒险的人——你让我不寒而栗！”亨利埃塔喊道。 “古德伍德先生什么时候返回美国？”

‘I don’t know—he didn’t tell me.’
“我不知道——他没有告诉我。”

‘Perhaps you didn’t enquire,’ said Henrietta with the note of righteous irony.
“也许你没有询问，”亨丽埃塔带着正义的讽刺语气说道。

‘I gave him too little satisfaction to have the right to ask questions of him.’
“我给了他太少的满足感，以至于没有权利向他提问。”

This assertion seemed to Miss Stackpole for a moment to bid defiance to comment; but at last she exclaimed: ‘Well, Isabel, if I didn’t know you I might think you were heartless!’
斯塔克波尔小姐一度觉得这个说法是在蔑视评论。但最后她喊道：“好吧，伊莎贝尔，如果我不认识你，我可能会认为你是无情的！”

‘Take care,’ said Isabel; ‘you’re spoiling me.’
“保重，”伊莎贝尔说。 “你把我宠坏了。”

‘I’m afraid I’ve done that already. I hope, at least,’ Miss Stackpole added, ‘that he may cross with Annie Climber!’
‘恐怕我已经这么做了。 “至少我希望，”斯塔克波尔小姐补充道，“他可以和安妮·克莱伯交叉！”

Isabel learned from her the next morning that she had determined not to return to Gardencourt (where old Mr. Touchett had promised her a renewed welcome), but to await in London the arrival of the invitation that Mr. Bantling had promised her from his sister Lady Pensil. Miss Stackpole related very freely her conversation with Ralph Touchett’s sociable friend and declared to Isabel that she really believed she had now got hold of something that would lead to something. On the receipt of Lady Pensil’s letter—Mr. Bantling had virtually guaranteed the arrival of this document—she would immediately depart for Bedfordshire, and if Isabel cared to look out for her impressions in the Interviewer she would certainly find them. Henrietta was evidently going to see something of the inner life this time.
第二天早上，伊莎贝尔从她那里得知，她决定不返回加登考特（老图切特先生曾许诺在那里再次欢迎她），而是在伦敦等待班特林先生向她承诺的姐姐发出的邀请。彭西尔女士。斯塔克波尔小姐非常畅所欲言地讲述了她与拉尔夫·图切特那位善于交际的朋友的谈话，并向伊莎贝尔宣称，她真的相信自己现在已经掌握了一些东西，可以带来一些结果。收到彭西尔夫人的信后——先生。班特林实际上已经保证了这份文件的到达——她将立即前往贝德福德郡，如果伊莎贝尔愿意在采访者中寻找她的印象，她肯定会找到它们。亨丽埃塔这次显然是想看到一些内心世界。

‘Do you know where you’re drifting, Henrietta Stackpole?’ Isabel asked, imitating the tone in which her friend had spoken the night before.
“亨丽埃塔·斯塔克波尔，你知道你在哪儿吗？”伊莎贝尔模仿她朋友前一天晚上说话的语气问道。

‘I’m drifting to a big position—that of the Queen of American Journalism. If my next letter isn’t copied all over the West I’ll swallow my pen-wiper!’
“我正在走向一个重要的位置——美国新闻界的女王。”如果我的下一封信没有被抄到整个西方，我就吞掉我的擦笔器！”

She had arranged with her friend Miss Annie Climber, the young lady of the continental offers, that they should go together to make those purchases which were to constitute Miss Climber’s farewell to a hemisphere in which she at least had been appreciated; and she presently repaired to Jermyn Street to pick up her companion. Shortly after her departure Ralph Touchett was announced, and as soon as he came in Isabel saw he had something on his mind. He very soon took his cousin into his confidence. He had received from his mother a telegram to the effect that his father had had a sharp attack of his old malady, that she was much alarmed and that she begged he would instantly return to Gardencourt. On this occasion at least Mrs. Touchett’s devotion to the electric wire was not open to criticism.
她和她的朋友安妮·克莱伯小姐（欧洲大陆报价的年轻女士）约定，他们应该一起去购买那些物品，这将构成克莱伯小姐与一个至少在她受到赞赏的西半球的告别。她很快就到了杰明街去接她的同伴。拉尔夫·图切特离开后不久，他就被宣布了，他一进来，伊莎贝尔就发现他有事。他很快就信任了他的表弟。他收到了母亲发来的一封电报，大意是说他父亲的老毛病又发作了，她非常惊慌，恳求他立即返回加登考特。这一次，至少图切特夫人对电线的热爱没有受到批评。

‘I’ve judged it best to see the great doctor, Sir Matthew Hope, first,’ Ralph said; ‘by great good luck he’s in town. He’s to see me at half-past twelve, and I shall make sure of his coming down to Gardencourt—which he will do the more readily as he has already seen my father several times, both there and in London. There’s an express at two-forty-five, which I shall take; and you’ll come back with me or remain here a few days longer, exactly as you prefer.’
“我认为最好先去看伟大的医生马修·霍普爵士，”拉尔夫说。 “运气好的话，他就在城里。”他要在十二点半来见我，我会确保他来花园考特——他会更容易做到这一点，因为他已经在那里和伦敦见过我父亲好几次了。两点四十五分有一趟快车，我要坐；你可以和我一起回来，也可以在这里多呆几天，完全随你的喜好。”

‘I shall certainly go with you,’ Isabel returned. ‘I don’t suppose I can be of any use to my uncle, but if he’s ill I shall like to be near him.’
“我一定会和你一起去，”伊莎贝尔回答道。 “我不认为我对叔叔有任何用处，但如果他病了，我会想靠近他。”

‘I think you’re fond of him,’ said Ralph with a certain shy pleasure in his face. ‘You appreciate him, which all the world hasn’t done. The quality’s too fine.’
“我想你喜欢他，”拉尔夫说道，脸上带着一丝羞涩的快乐。 ‘你欣赏他，这是全世界都没有做到的。质量太好了。”

‘I quite adore him,’ Isabel after a moment said.
“我非常喜欢他，”伊莎贝尔过了一会儿说道。

‘That’s very well. After his son he’s your greatest admirer.’
‘那很好。除了他的儿子之外，他是你最伟大的崇拜者。

She welcomed this assurance, but she gave secretly a small sigh of relief at the thought that Mr. Touchett was one of those admirers who couldn’t propose to marry her. This, however, was not what she spoke; she went on to inform Ralph that there were other reasons for her not remaining in London. She was tired of it and wished to leave it; and then Henrietta was going away—going to stay in Bedfordshire.
她对这一保证表示欢迎，但想到图切特先生是那些无法向她求婚的仰慕者之一，她暗暗松了一口气。然而，她并不是这么说的。她接着告诉拉尔夫，她不留在伦敦还有其他原因。她厌倦了，想离开。然后亨利埃塔就要离开——留在贝德福德郡。

‘In Bedfordshire?’
“在贝德福德郡？”

‘With Lady Pensil, the sister of Mr. Bantling, who has answered for an invitation.’
“与班特林先生的妹妹彭西尔女士一起，她已应邀出席。”

Ralph was feeling anxious, but at this he broke into a laugh. Suddenly, none the less, his gravity returned. ‘Bantling’s a man of courage. But if the invitation should get lost on the way?’
拉尔夫正感到着急，但听到这里他突然笑了起来。尽管如此，突然间，他的重力又恢复了。 “班特林是一个勇敢的人。但如果邀请函在途中丢失了呢？

‘I thought the British post-office was impeccable.’
“我认为英国邮局无可挑剔。”

‘The good Homer sometimes nods,’ said Ralph. ‘However,’ he went on more brightly, ‘the good Bantling never does, and, whatever happens, he’ll take care of Henrietta.’
“善良的荷马有时会点头，”拉尔夫说。 “不过，”他更加高兴地继续说道，“善良的班特林从来不会这样做，而且，无论发生什么，他都会照顾亨利埃塔。”

Ralph went to keep his appointment with Sir Matthew Hope, and Isabel made her arrangements for quitting Pratt’s Hotel. Her uncle’s danger touched her nearly, and while she stood before her open trunk, looking about her vaguely for what she should put into it, the tears suddenly rose to her eyes. It was perhaps for this reason that when Ralph came back at two o’clock to take her to the station she was not yet ready. He found Miss Stackpole, however, in the sitting-room, where she had just risen from her luncheon, and this lady immediately expressed her regret at his father’s illness.
拉尔夫去赴马修·霍普爵士的约会，伊莎贝尔则做好了离开普拉特酒店的安排。她叔叔的危险几乎触动了她，当她站在打开的箱子前，茫然地环顾四周寻找应该放进去的东西时，眼泪突然涌上眼眶。也许正是因为这个原因，当拉尔夫两点钟回来送她去车站时，她还没有准备好。然而，他在客厅里找到了斯塔克波尔小姐，她刚刚吃完午餐，这位女士立即对他父亲的病表示了遗憾。

‘He’s a grand old man,’ she said; ‘he’s faithful to the last. If it’s really to be the last—pardon my alluding to it, but you must often have thought of the possibility—I’m sorry that I shall not be at Gardencourt.’
“他是一位伟大的老人，”她说。 ‘他至始至终都忠心耿耿。如果真的是最后一次——请原谅我提到它，但你一定经常想到这种可能性——我很抱歉我不会在花园庭院。

‘You’ll amuse yourself much more in Bedfordshire.’
“在贝德福德郡你会更开心。”

‘I shall be sorry to amuse myself at such a time,’ said Henrietta with much propriety. But she immediately added: ‘I should like so to commemorate the closing scene.’
“我很抱歉在这种时候自娱自乐，”亨利埃塔非常得体地说。但她立即补充道：“我想以此来纪念闭幕式。”

‘My father may live a long time,’ said Ralph simply. Then, adverting to topics more cheerful, he interrogated Miss Stackpole as to her own future.
“我父亲可能会活得很长。”拉尔夫简单地说。然后，他转向更愉快的话题，询问斯塔克波尔小姐自己的未来。

Now that Ralph was in trouble she addressed him in a tone of larger allowance and told him that she was much indebted to him for having made her acquainted with Mr. Bantling. ‘He has told me just the things I want to know,’ she said; ‘all the society-items and all about the royal family. I can’t make out that what he tells me about the royal family is much to their credit; but he says that’s only my peculiar way of looking at it. Well, all I want is that he should give me the facts; I can put them together quick enough, once I’ve got them.’ And she added that Mr. Bantling had been so good as to promise to come and take her out that afternoon.
现在拉尔夫遇到了麻烦，她用一种宽容的语气对他说话，并告诉他，她非常感谢他让她结识了班特林先生。 “他告诉了我我想知道的事情，”她说； “所有社会事务和所有关于王室的事情。我不认为他告诉我的关于王室的事情对他们有多大的功劳；但他说这只是我看待问题的独特方式。好吧，我想要的只是他应该告诉我事实；一旦我拿到了它们，我就可以足够快地把它们放在一起。”她补充说，班特林先生非常好，答应那天下午来带她出去。

‘To take you where?’ Ralph ventured to enquire.
“带你去哪里？”拉尔夫大胆地问道。

‘To Buckingham Palace. He’s going to show me over it, so that I may get some idea how they live.’
‘去白金汉宫。他会带我看一下，这样我就可以了解他们的生活方式。”

‘Ah,’ said Ralph, ‘we leave you in good hands. The first thing we shall hear is that you’re invited to Windsor Castle.’
“啊，”拉尔夫说，“我们把你交给好的人照顾。我们听到的第一件事就是你被邀请去温莎城堡。

‘If they ask me, I shall certainly go. Once I get started I’m not afraid. But for all that,’ Henrietta added in a moment, ‘I’m not satisfied; I’m not at peace about Isabel.’
“如果他们问我，我一定会去。一旦我开始了，我就不再害怕了。但尽管如此，”亨丽埃塔随即补充道，“我并不满意；我对伊莎贝尔感到不安。

‘What is her last misdemeanour?’
“她最后犯下的轻罪是什么？”

‘Well, I’ve told you before, and I suppose there’s no harm in my going on. I always finish a subject that I take up. Mr. Goodwood was here last night.’
“好吧，我之前已经告诉过你了，我想我继续下去也没什么坏处。我总是完成我所研究的课题。古德伍德先生昨晚来过这里。

Ralph opened his eyes; he even blushed a little—his blush being the sign of an emotion somewhat acute. He remembered that Isabel, in separating from him in Winchester Square, had repudiated his suggestion that her motive in doing so was the expectation of a visitor at Prates Hotel, and it was a new pang to him to have to suspect her of duplicity. On the other hand, he quickly said to himself, what concern was it of his that she should have made an appointment with a lover? Had it not been thought graceful in every age that young ladies should make a mystery of such appointments? Ralph gave Miss Stackpole a diplomatic answer. ‘I should have thought that, with the views you expressed to me the other day, this would satisfy you perfectly.’
拉尔夫睁开眼睛；他甚至有点脸红——他的脸红是一种情绪有些尖锐的表现。他记得伊莎贝尔在温彻斯特广场与他分离时，否认了他的说法，即她这样做的动机是在普拉特斯酒店期待着一位访客，而不得不怀疑她口是心非对他来说是一种新的痛苦。另一方面，他很快又对自己说，她跟情人约会有什么关系？难道在每个时代，年轻女士都应该把这样的约会保持神秘，这不是被认为是优雅的吗？拉尔夫给了斯塔克波尔小姐一个圆滑的答复。 “我本以为，以你那天向我表达的观点，这会让你非常满意。”

‘That he should come to see her? That was very well, as far as it went. It was a little plot of mine; I let him know that we were in London, and when it had been arranged that I should spend the evening out I sent him a word—the word we just utter to the ‘wise.’ I hoped he would find her alone; I won’t pretend I didn’t hope that you’d be out of the way. He came to see her, but he might as well have stayed away.’
‘他应该来看她吗？就目前而言，这非常好。这是我的一个小阴谋；我让他知道我们在伦敦，当安排好我晚上出去玩时，我给他发了一句话——我们只是对“智者”说的一句话。我希望他能单独找到她；但我希望他能找到她。我不会假装我不希望你不碍事。他来看她，但他最好还是远离她。

‘Isabel was cruel?’—and Ralph’s face lighted with the relief of his cousin’s not having shown duplicity.
“伊莎贝尔很残忍吗？”——拉尔夫的脸因表弟没有表现出口是心非而松了口气。

‘I don’t exactly know what passed between them. But she gave him no satisfaction—she sent him back to America.’
“我不太清楚他们之间发生了什么。但她并没有让他满意——她把他送回了美国。

‘Poor Mr. Goodwood!’ Ralph sighed.
“可怜的古德伍德先生！”拉尔夫叹了口气。

‘Her only idea seems to be to get rid of him,’ Henrietta went on.
“她唯一的想法似乎就是摆脱他，”亨丽埃塔继续说道。

‘Poor Mr. Goodwood!’ Ralph repeated. The exclamation, it must be confessed, was automatic; it failed exactly to express his thoughts, which were taking another line.
“可怜的古德伍德先生！”拉尔夫重复道。必须承认，这声感叹是自然而然的。它未能完全表达他的想法，他走的是另一条路。

‘You don’t say that as if you felt it. I don’t believe you care.’
‘你这么说并不像是你感觉到的那样。我不相信你关心。

‘Ah,’ said Ralph, ‘you must remember that I don’t know this interesting young man—that I’ve never seen him.’
“啊，”拉尔夫说，“你必须记住，我不认识这个有趣的年轻人——我从来没有见过他。”

‘Well, I shall see him, and I shall tell him not to give up. If I didn’t believe Isabel would come round,’ Miss Stackpole added‘well, I’d give up myself. I mean I’d give her up!’
“好吧，我会见到他，我会告诉他不要放弃。如果我不相信伊莎贝尔会回心转意，”斯塔克波尔小姐补充道，“好吧，我就会放弃自己。我的意思是我会放弃她！

Chapter 18
第18章

It had occurred to Ralph that, in the conditions, Isabel’s parting with her friend might be of a slightly embarrassed nature, and he went down to the door of the hotel in advance of his cousin, who, after a slight delay, followed with the traces of an unaccepted remonstrance, as he thought, in her eyes. The two made the journey to Gardencourt in almost unbroken silence, and the servant who met them at the station had no better news to give them of Mr. Touchett—a fact which caused Ralph to congratulate himself afresh on Sir Matthew Hope’s having promised to come down in the five o’clock train and spend the night. Mrs. Touchett, he learned, on reaching home, had been constantly with the old man and was with him at that moment; and this fact made Ralph say to himself that, after all, what his mother wanted was just easy occasion. The finer natures were those that shone at the larger times. Isabel went to her own room, noting throughout the house that perceptible hush which precedes a crisis. At the end of an hour, however, she came downstairs in search of her aunt, whom she wished to ask about Mr. Touchett. She went into the library, but Mrs. Touchett was not there, and as the weather, which had been damp and chill, was now altogether spoiled, it was not probable she had gone for her usual walk in the grounds. Isabel was on the point of ringing to send a question to her room, when this purpose quickly yielded to an unexpected sound—the sound of low music proceeding apparently from the saloon. She knew her aunt never touched the piano, and the musician was therefore probably Ralph, who played for his own amusement. That he should have resorted to this recreation at the present time indicated apparently that his anxiety about his father had been relieved; so that the girl took her way, almost with restored cheer, toward the source of the harmony. The drawing-room at Gardencourt was an apartment of great distances, and, as the piano was placed at the end of it furthest removed from the door at which she entered, her arrival was not noticed by the person seated before the instrument. This person was neither Ralph nor his mother; it was a lady whom Isabel immediately saw to be a stranger to herself, though her back was presented to the door. This back—an ample and well-dressed one—Isabel viewed for some moments with surprise. The lady was of course a visitor who had arrived during her absence and who had not been mentioned by either of the servants—one of them her aunt’s maid—of whom she had had speech since her return. Isabel had already learned, however, with what treasures of reserve the function of receiving orders may be accompanied, and she was particularly conscious of having been treated with dryness by her aunt’s maid, through whose hands she had slipped perhaps a little too mistrustfully and with an effect of plumage but the more lustrous.
拉尔夫突然想到，在这种情况下，伊莎贝尔与她的朋友的分离可能会有点尴尬，于是他先于他的表弟走到了旅馆门口，表弟稍稍耽搁了一会儿，也跟着正如他所想，她的眼里带着不被接受的抗议痕迹。两人在几乎不间断的沉默中踏上了前往花园考特的旅程，在车站迎接他们的仆人也没有告诉他们关于图切特先生的更好消息——这一事实使拉尔夫再次庆幸自己马修·霍普爵士答应了来。乘坐五点钟的火车下来并过夜。他回到家后得知，图切特夫人一直陪伴着老人，此刻也和他在一起。这一事实使拉尔夫对自己说，毕竟他母亲想要的只是轻松的场合。更优秀的本性是那些在更伟大的时代中闪闪发光的本性。伊莎贝尔走进自己的房间，注意到整个房子里都弥漫着危机前的安静气氛。然而，一个小时后，她下楼去找姨妈，想向姨妈打听有关图切特先生的情况。她走进图书馆，但图切特太太不在那里，而且由于本来又湿又冷的天气现在完全变坏了，她不可能像往常一样去院子里散步了。伊莎贝尔正要按铃向她的房间询问一个问题，但这个目的很快就被一种意想不到的声音所取代——低沉的音乐声显然是从酒吧里传来的。她知道她的姨妈从来没有碰过钢琴，因此音乐家很可能是拉尔夫，他为自己的娱乐而演奏。 他现在应该采取这种消遣方式，显然表明他对父亲的焦虑已经缓解了。于是，女孩几乎带着恢复的喜悦，朝着和谐的源头走去。花园庭院的客厅是一间距离很远的公寓，由于钢琴放置在离她进来的门最远的一端，所以坐在钢琴前的人没有注意到她的到来。这个人既不是拉尔夫，也不是他的母亲；他是拉尔夫的母亲。这是一位女士，伊莎贝尔立刻就看出她对自己来说是个陌生人，尽管她背对着门。这个背影——宽阔、衣着考究的背影——伊莎贝尔惊讶地看了好一会儿。这位女士当然是一位在她不在期间到达的访客，而两个仆人（其中一个是她姨妈的女仆）都没有提到过她，自从她回来后，她就曾对他们说过话。然而，伊莎贝尔已经知道，接受命令的职能可能会伴随着什么珍藏的珍宝，她特别意识到她姨妈的女仆对她的态度是冷漠的，她从她手中溜走了，也许有点太不信任了，有羽毛的效果，但更有光泽。

The advent of a guest was in itself far from disconcerting; she had not yet divested herself of a young faith that each new acquaintance would exert some momentous influence on her life. By the time she had made these reflexions she became aware that the lady at the piano played remarkably well. She was playing something of Schubert’s—Isabel knew not what, but recognized Schubert—and she touched the piano with a discretion of her own. It showed skill, it showed feeling; Isabel sat down noiselessly on the nearest chair and waited till the end of the piece. When it was finished she felt a strong desire to thank the player, and rose from her seat to do so, while at the same time the stranger turned quickly round, as if but just aware of her presence.
一位客人的到来本身并没有令人不安；相反，他们的到来并没有让他们感到不安。她还没有放弃年轻时的信念，即每一个新认识的人都会对她的生活产生重大影响。当她做出这些反应时，她意识到那位弹钢琴的女士弹得非常好。她正在弹奏舒伯特的作品——伊莎贝尔不知道是什么，但认出了舒伯特——她以自己的判断力触碰钢琴。它显示了技巧，它显示了感情；伊莎贝尔静静地坐在最近的椅子上，等待着这首曲子的结束。结束后，她强烈地想要感谢这位玩家，于是从座位上站了起来，而与此同时，陌生人迅速转过身来，仿佛只是意识到她的存在。

‘That’s very beautiful, and your playing makes it more beautiful still,’ said Isabel with all the young radiance with which she usually uttered a truthful rapture.
“那真是太美了，你的演奏让它变得更加美丽，”伊莎贝尔说道，脸上充满了年轻的光芒，就像她通常在表达真诚的狂喜时那样。

‘You don’t think I disturbed Mr. Touchett then?’ the musician answered as sweetly as this compliment deserved. ‘The house is so large and his room so far away that I thought I might venture, especially as I played just—just du bout des doigts.’
“那么你不认为我打扰了图切特先生吗？”这位音乐家甜蜜地回答道，这也是他应得的称赞。 “房子太大了，他的房间又那么远，我想我可以冒险一下，尤其是当我刚刚玩的时候。”

‘She’s a Frenchwoman,’ Isabel said to herself; ‘she says that as if she were French.’ And this supposition made the visitor more interesting to our speculative heroine. ‘I hope my uncle’s doing well,’ Isabel added. ‘I should think that to hear such lovely music as that would really make him feel better.’
“她是一个法国女人，”伊莎贝尔自言自语道。 “她这么说就好像她是法国人一样。”这种假设让这位来访者对我们的思辨女主人公更感兴趣。 “我希望我叔叔一切都好，”伊莎贝尔补充道。 “我认为听到如此美妙的音乐确实会让他感觉好一些。”

The lady smiled and discriminated. ‘I’m afraid there are moments in life when even Schubert has nothing to say to us. We must admit, however, that they are our worst.’
那位女士微笑着，歧视着。 “恐怕在生活中的某些时刻，即使是舒伯特也对我们无话可说。然而，我们必须承认，他们是我们最糟糕的。

‘I’m not in that state now then,’ said Isabel. ‘On the contrary I should be so glad if you would play something more.’
“那么我现在不处于那种状态了，”伊莎贝尔说。 “相反，如果你能演奏更多的东西，我会很高兴。”

‘If it will give you pleasure—delighted.’ And this obliging person took her place again and struck a few chords, while Isabel sat down nearer the instrument. Suddenly the new-comer stopped with her hands on the keys, half-turning and looking over her shoulder. She was forty years old and not pretty, though her expression charmed. ‘Pardon me,’ she said; ‘but are you the niece—the young American?’
“如果它能给你带来快乐——那就很高兴了。”这个乐于助人的人再次取代了她的位置，弹奏了几个和弦，而伊莎贝尔则坐在了靠近乐器的地方。突然，新来的人停下来，双手放在琴键上，半转过身，回头看去。她四十岁了，长得并不漂亮，但表情却很迷人。 “请原谅，”她说。 “但是你是那个侄女——那个年轻的美国人吗？”

‘I’m my aunt’s niece,’ Isabel replied with simplicity.
“我是我姨妈的侄女，”伊莎贝尔简单地回答道。

The lady at the piano sat still a moment longer, casting her air of interest over her shoulder. ‘That’s very well; we’re compatriots.’ And then she began to play.
弹钢琴的女士又静坐了一会儿，脸上露出饶有兴趣的神情。 ‘那很好；我们是同胞。”然后她开始演奏。

‘Ah then she’s not French,’ Isabel murmured; and as the opposite supposition had made her romantic it might have seemed that this revelation would have marked a drop. But such was not the fact; rarer even than to be French seemed it to be American on such interesting terms.
“啊，那么她就不是法国人了，”伊莎贝尔低声说道。由于相反的假设让她变得浪漫，所以这次的揭露似乎标志着她的感情下降了。但事实并非如此。从如此有趣的角度来看，比法国人更罕见的是美国人。

The lady played in the same manner as before, softly and solemnly, and while she played the shadows deepened in the room. The autumn twilight gathered in, and from her place Isabel could see the rain, which had now begun in earnest, washing the cold-looking lawn and the wind shaking the great trees. At last, when the music had ceased, her companion got up and, coming nearer with a smile, before Isabel had time to thank her again, said: ‘I’m very glad you’ve come back; I’ve heard a great deal about you.’
那位女士的演奏方式和以前一样，轻柔而庄严，演奏的同时，房间里的阴影加深了。秋天的暮色即将来临，从伊莎贝尔的位置上可以看到雨已经开始下起来，冲刷着冰冷的草坪，风吹动着大树。最后，当音乐停止时，她的同伴站起来，微笑着走近，伊莎贝尔还没来得及再次感谢她，就说道：“我很高兴你回来了；我很高兴你回来了。”我听说过很多关于你的事。

Isabel thought her a very attractive person, but nevertheless spoke with a certain abruptness in reply to this speech. ‘From whom have you heard about me?’
伊莎贝尔认为她是一个非常有魅力的人，但在回答这个演讲时却显得有些唐突。 “你从谁那里听说过我的？”

The stranger hesitated a single moment and then, ‘From your uncle,’ she answered. ‘I’ve been here three days, and the first day he let me come and pay him a visit in his room. Then he talked constantly of you.’
陌生人犹豫了一会儿，然后说道：“是你叔叔送的。”她回答道。 “我已经在这里三天了，第一天他就让我去他的房间拜访他。然后他就不断地谈论你。”

‘As you didn’t know me that must rather have bored you.’
“因为你不认识我，那一定让你感到无聊。”

‘It made me want to know you. All the more that since then—your aunt being so much with Mr. Touchett—I’ve been quite alone and have got rather tired of my own society. I’ve not chosen a good moment for my visit.’
‘这让我想认识你。更重要的是，从那时起——你姨妈经常和图切特先生在一起——我就变得非常孤独，对自己的社交感到相当厌倦。我没有选择访问的好时机。”

A servant had come in with lamps and was presently followed by another bearing the tea-tray. On the appearance of this repast Mrs. Touchett had apparently been notified, for she now arrived and addressed herself to the tea-pot. Her greeting to her niece did not differ materially from her manner of raising the lid of this receptacle in order to glance at the contents: in neither act was it becoming to make a show of avidity. Questioned about her husband she was unable to say he was better; but the local doctor was with him, and much light was expected from this gentleman’s consultation with Sir Matthew Hope.
一个仆人提着灯进来，紧接着另一个拿着茶盘也跟着进来。这场宴会一开始，图切特夫人显然已经得到了通知，因为她现在到了，对着茶壶讲话。她向侄女打招呼的方式与她掀开容器盖子看里面的东西的方式没有什么本质上的不同：这两种行为都不适合表现出热情。当被问及她丈夫的情况时，她无法说他已经好多了。但当地医生和他在一起，这位先生与马修·霍普爵士的会诊有望带来很多光明。

‘I suppose you two ladies have made acquaintance,’ she pursued. ‘If you haven’t I recommend you to do so; for so long as we continue—Ralph and I—to cluster about Mr. Touchett’s bed you’re not likely to have much society but each other.’
“我想你们两位女士已经认识了，”她继续说道。 “如果你还没有，我建议你这样做；只要我们——拉尔夫和我——继续聚集在图切特先生的床上，除了彼此之外，你们就不可能有太多的交往。

‘I know nothing about you but that you’re a great musician,’ Isabel said to the visitor.
“我对你一无所知，只知道你是一位伟大的音乐家，”伊莎贝尔对来访者说。

‘There’s a good deal more than that to know,’ Mrs. Touchett affirmed in her little dry tone.
“要知道的事情远不止这些，”图切特夫人用她微弱的干巴巴的语气肯定道。

‘A very little of it, I am sure, will content Miss Archer!’ the lady exclaimed with a light laugh. ‘I’m an old friend of your aunt’s. I’ve lived much in Florence. I’m Madame Merle.’ She made this last announcement as if she were referring to a person of tolerably distinct identity. For Isabel, however, it represented little; she could only continue to feel that Madame Merle had as charming a manner as any she had ever encountered.
“我相信，只要一点点，阿切尔小姐就会满意的！”那位女士轻笑道。 “我是你姨妈的老朋友。我在佛罗伦萨住过很多次。我是梅尔夫人。”她最后宣布的这句话就好像她指的是一个身份相当独特的人。然而，对伊莎贝尔来说，这代表的意义不大。她只能继续觉得梅尔夫人的举止与她所见过的任何人一样迷人。

‘She’s not a foreigner in spite of her name,’ said Mrs. Touchett. ‘She was born—I always forget where you were born.’
“尽管她的名字是外国人，但她并不是外国人，”图切特夫人说。 “她出生——我总是忘记你出生在哪里。”

‘It’s hardly worth while then I should tell you.’
“那不值得我告诉你。”

‘On the contrary,’ said Mrs. Touchett, who rarely missed a logical point; ‘if I remembered your telling me would be quite superfluous.’
“恰恰相反，”图切特夫人说，她很少错过逻辑上的要点。 “如果我记得你告诉我的话，那就多余了。”

Madame Merle glanced at Isabel with a sort of world-wide smile, a thing that over-reached frontiers. ‘I was born under the shadow of the national banner.’
梅尔夫人用一种超越国界的微笑看了伊莎贝尔一眼。 “我出生在国旗的阴影下。”

‘She’s too fond of mystery,’ said Mrs. Touchett; ‘that’s her great fault.’
“她太喜欢神秘了，”图切特夫人说。 “那是她的大错。”

‘Ah,’ exclaimed Madame Merle, ‘I’ve great faults, but I don’t think that’s one of them; it certainly isn’t the greatest. I came into the world in the Brooklyn navy-yard. My father was a high officer in the United States Navy, and had a post—a post of responsibility—in that establishment at the time. I suppose I ought to love the sea, but I hate it. That’s why I don’t return to America. I love the land; the great thing is to love something.’
“啊，”梅尔夫人惊呼道，“我有很大的缺点，但我不认为这是其中之一；这当然不是最伟大的。我来到布鲁克林海军造船厂的世界。我父亲是美国海军的一名高级军官，当时在该机构担任一个职位——一个负责的职位。我想我应该热爱大海，但我讨厌大海。这就是我不回美国的原因。我爱这片土地；伟大的事情就是热爱某件事。

Isabel, as a dispassionate witness, had not been struck with the force of Mrs. Touchett’s characterization of her visitor, who had an expressive, communicative, responsive face, by no means of the sort which, to Isabel’s mind, suggested a secretive disposition. It was a face that told of an amplitude of nature and of quick and free motions and, though it had no regular beauty, was in the highest degree engaging and attaching. Madame Merle was a tall, fair, smooth woman; everything in her person was round and replete, though without those accumulations which suggest heaviness. Her features were thick but in perfect proportion and harmony, and her complexion had a healthy clearness. Her grey eyes were small but full of light and incapable of stupidity—incapable, according to some people, even of tears; she had a liberal, full-rimmed mouth which when she smiled drew itself upward to the left side in a manner that most people thought very odd, some very affected and a few very graceful. Isabel inclined to range herself in the last category. Madame Merle had thick, fair hair, arranged somehow ‘classically’ and as if she were a Bust, Isabel judged—a Juno or a Niobe; and large white hands, of a perfect shape, a shape so perfect that their possessor, preferring to leave them unadorned, wore no jewelled rings. Isabel had taken her at first, as we have seen, for a Frenchwoman; but extended observation might have ranked her as a German—a German of high degree, perhaps an Austrian, a baroness, a countess, a princess. It would never have been supposed she had come into the world in Brooklyn—though one could doubtless not have carried through any argument that the air of distinction marking her in so eminent a degree was inconsistent with such a birth. It was true that the national banner had floated immediately over her cradle, and the breezy freedom of the stars and stripes might have shed an influence upon the attitude she there took towards life. And yet she had evidently nothing of the fluttered, flapping quality of a morsel of bunting in the wind; her manner expressed the repose and confidence which come from a large experience. Experience, however, had not quenched her youth; it had simply made her sympathetic and supple. She was in a word a woman of strong impulses kept in admirable order. This commended itself to Isabel as an ideal combination.
作为一个冷静的目击者，伊莎贝尔并没有被图切特夫人对这位来访者的描述所震撼，这位来访者有着一张富有表现力、善于交流、反应灵敏的面孔，在伊莎贝尔看来，绝不是那种隐秘的性格。这张脸展现出自然的幅度和快速而自由的动作，虽然没有常规的美感，但却具有最高程度的吸引力和吸引力。梅尔夫人是一位身材高大、皮肤白皙、外表光滑的女人。她身上的一切都是圆润饱满的，尽管没有那些让人觉得沉重的堆积物。她的五官虽然厚重，但比例完美、和谐，肤色健康透亮。她灰色的眼睛虽小，但充满了光芒，不会做出愚蠢的事——据一些人说，她甚至不会流泪；她有一张宽大的、嘴唇饱满的嘴，当她微笑时，她的嘴就会向左上翘，这种方式大多数人都觉得很奇怪，有些人觉得很做作，有些人觉得很优雅。伊莎贝尔倾向于将自己归入最后一类。梅尔夫人有一头浓密的金发，排列得有些“古典”，伊莎贝尔判断，她就像是半身像——朱诺或尼俄柏；一双洁白的大手，形状完美，形状如此完美，以至于它们的拥有者宁愿不加装饰，也不戴珠宝戒指。正如我们所见，伊莎贝尔一开始以为她是法国女人。但如果仔细观察的话，她可能会被归类为德国人——一个高学历的德国人，也许是一个奥地利人，一个男爵夫人，一个伯爵夫人，一个公主。人们永远不会认为她出生在布鲁克林的世界上——尽管人们无疑不会认为她如此显赫的显赫气质与这样的出生是不一致的。 确实，国旗已经飘扬在她的摇篮上，星条旗的自由自在或许也影响了她对生活的态度。但她显然没有一点儿彩旗在风中飘扬、拍打的感觉；她的态度表现出来自丰富经验的平静和自信。然而，经历并没有浇灭她的青春。这只是让她变得富有同情心和柔软。总而言之，她是一个有着强烈冲动却保持着令人钦佩的秩序的女人。这对伊莎贝尔来说是一个理想的组合。

The girl made these reflections while the three ladies sat at their tea, but that ceremony was interrupted before long by the arrival of the great doctor from London, who had been immediately ushered into the drawing-room. Mrs. Touchett took him off to the library for a private talk; and then Madame Merle and Isabel parted, to meet again at dinner. The idea of seeing more of this interesting woman did much to mitigate Isabel’s sense of the sadness now settling on Gardencourt.
当三位女士坐在茶座上时，女孩做出了这些思考，但仪式不久就被来自伦敦的伟大医生的到来打断了，他立即被带进了客厅。塔切特夫人带他去图书馆进行私人谈话。然后梅尔夫人和伊莎贝尔分手，在晚餐时再次见面。能够更多地见到这个有趣的女人，这在很大程度上减轻了伊莎贝尔对花园庭院的悲伤感。

When she came into the drawing-room before dinner she found the place empty; but in the course of a moment Ralph arrived. His anxiety about his father had been lightened; Sir Matthew Hope’s view of his condition was less depressed than his own had been. The doctor recommended that the nurse alone should remain with the old man for the next three or four hours; so that Ralph, his mother and the great physician himself were free to dine at table. Mrs. Touchett and Sir Matthew appeared; Madame Merle was the last.
晚饭前她走进客厅，发现里面空无一人。但不一会儿，拉尔夫就到了。他对父亲的忧虑减轻了。马修·霍普爵士对自己病情的看法并不像他自己那样沮丧。医生建议护士在接下来的三四个小时内独自陪伴老人。这样拉尔夫、他的母亲和伟大的医生本人就可以自由地在餐桌上用餐。图切特夫人和马修爵士出现了。梅尔夫人是最后一个。

Before she came Isabel spoke of her to Ralph, who was standing before the fireplace. ‘Pray who is this Madame Merle?’
在她来之前，伊莎贝尔向站在壁炉前的拉尔夫谈到了她。 “请问这位梅尔夫人是谁？”

‘The cleverest woman I know, not excepting yourself,’ said Ralph.
“我认识的最聪明的女人，你自己也不例外，”拉尔夫说。

‘I thought she seemed very pleasant.’
“我觉得她看起来很令人愉快。”

‘I was sure you’d think her very pleasant.’
“我确信你会认为她非常令人愉快。”

‘Is that why you invited her?’
“这就是你邀请她的原因吗？”

‘I didn’t invite her, and when we came back from London I didn’t know she was here. No one invited her. She’s a friend of my mother’s, and just after you and I went to town my mother got a note from her. She had arrived in England (she usually lives abroad, though she has first and last spent a good deal of time here), and asked leave to come down for a few days. She’s a woman who can make such proposals with perfect confidence; she’s so welcome wherever she goes. And with my mother there could be no question of hesitating; she’s the one person in the world whom my mother very much admires. If she were not herself (which she after all much prefers), she would like to be Madame Merle. It would indeed be a great change.’
“我没有邀请她，当我们从伦敦回来时，我不知道她在这里。没有人邀请她。她是我母亲的朋友，你和我刚进城，我母亲就收到了她的一张纸条。她已经抵达英国（她通常住在国外，尽管她第一次和最后一次在这里度过了很多时间），并请假下来几天。她是一个可以满怀信心地提出这样的求婚的女人。无论她走到哪里，她都很受欢迎。对于我母亲来说，毫无疑问她会犹豫。她是这个世界上我母亲非常敬佩的人。如果她不是她自己（她毕竟更喜欢这一点），她愿意成为梅尔夫人。这确实会是一个巨大的改变。

‘Well, she’s very charming,’ said Isabel. ‘And she plays beautifully.’
“嗯，她非常迷人，”伊莎贝尔说。 “而且她弹得非常漂亮。”

‘She does everything beautifully. She’s complete.’
‘她把每件事都做得很漂亮。她完整了。

Isabel looked at her cousin a moment. ‘You don’t like her.’
伊莎贝尔看了她的表弟一会儿。 “你不喜欢她。”

‘On the contrary, I was once in love with her.’
“相反，我曾经爱过她。”

‘And she didn’t care for you, and that’s why you don’t like her.’
“她不关心你，所以你不喜欢她。”

‘How can we have discussed such things? Monsieur Merle was then living.’
‘我们怎么能讨论这样的事情呢？梅尔先生当时还活着。

‘Is he dead now?’
“他现在死了吗？”

‘So she says.’
“她是这么说的。”

‘Don’t you believe her?’
“你不相信她吗？”

‘Yes, because the statement agrees with the probabilities. The husband of Madame Merle would be likely to pass away.’
“是的，因为这个陈述与概率相符。梅尔夫人的丈夫可能会去世。

Isabel gazed at her cousin again. ‘I don’t know what you mean. You mean something—that you don’t mean. What was Monsieur Merle?’
伊莎贝尔再次凝视着她的表弟。 ‘我不知道你的意思。你的意思是某事——但你并不是这个意思。梅尔先生是什么？

‘The husband of Madame.’
“夫人的丈夫。”

‘You’re very odious. Has she any children?’
‘你真是太可恶了。她有孩子吗？

‘Not the least little child—fortunately.’
“幸运的是，不是一个小孩子。”

‘Fortunately?’
'幸运的是？'

‘I mean fortunately for the child. She’d be sure to spoil it.’
“我的意思是，这对孩子来说是幸运的。她肯定会破坏它的。

Isabel was apparently on the point of assuring her cousin for the third time that he was odious; but the discussion was interrupted by the arrival of the lady who was the topic of it. She came rustling in quickly, apologizing for being late, fastening a bracelet, dressed in dark blue satin, which exposed a white bosom that was ineffectually covered by a curious silver necklace. Ralph offered her his arm with the exaggerated alertness of a man who was no longer a lover.
伊莎贝尔显然正要第三次向她的表弟保证他很可憎。但讨论被讨论话题的那位女士的到来打断了。她很快就进来了，为迟到表示歉意，戴着手镯，穿着深蓝色缎子衣服，露出白色的胸部，那条奇怪的银项链无效地遮住了她。拉尔夫向她伸出了手臂，带着一种不再是情人的男人夸张的警觉。

Even if this had still been his condition, however, Ralph had other things to think about. The great doctor spent the night at Gardencourt and, returning to London on the morrow, after another consultation with Mr. Touchett’s own medical adviser, concurred in Ralph’s desire that he should see the patient again on the day following. On the day following Sir Matthew Hope reappeared at Gardencourt, and now took a less encouraging view of the old man, who had grown worse in the twenty-four hours. His feebleness was extreme, and to his son, who constantly sat by his bedside, it often seemed that his end must be at hand. The local doctor, a very sagacious man, in whom Ralph had secretly more confidence than in his distinguished colleague, was constantly in attendance, and Sir Matthew Hope came back several times. Mr. Touchett was much of the time unconscious; he slept a great deal; he rarely spoke. Isabel had a great desire to be useful to him and was allowed to watch with him at hours when his other attendants (of whom Mrs. Touchett was not the least regular) went to take rest. He never seemed to know her, and she always said to herself, ‘Suppose he should die while I’m sitting here”; an idea which excited her and kept her awake. Once he opened his eyes for a while and fixed them upon her intelligently, but when she went to him, hoping he would recognize her, he closed them and relapsed into stupor. The day after this, however, he revived for a longer time; but on this occasion Ralph only was with him. The old man began to talk, much to his son’s satisfaction, who assured him that they should presently have him sitting up.
然而，即使这仍然是他的状况，拉尔夫还有其他事情需要考虑。这位伟大的医生在花园考特过夜，第二天返回伦敦，在与图切特先生自己的医疗顾问再次协商后，同意拉尔夫的愿望，即他应该在第二天再次见到病人。第二天，马修·霍普爵士再次出现在花园庭院，现在对这位老人的看法不再那么令人鼓舞，他在二十四小时内病情恶化了。他的身体极度虚弱，对于经常坐在他床边的儿子来说，他的末日似乎已经临近了。当地的医生是一位非常睿智的人，拉尔夫私下里对他比对他杰出的同事更有信心，他经常在场，马修·霍普爵士也回来过几次。塔奇特先生大部分时间都处于昏迷状态。他睡了很多觉；他很少说话。伊莎贝尔非常渴望对他有用，并被允许在他的其他侍从（图切特夫人也不是其中最不常去的）休息时陪着他。他似乎从来不认识她，而她总是对自己说：“假设我坐在这里的时候他死了”；这个想法让她兴奋不已，让她保持清醒。有一次，他睁开了眼睛，聪明地盯着她，但当她走向他，希望他能认出她时，他闭上了眼睛，再次陷入昏迷。然而，第二天，他又恢复了更长的时间。但这次只有拉尔夫和他在一起。老人开始说话，这让他的儿子非常满意，他向他保证，他们很快就会让他坐起来。

‘No, my boy,’ said Mr. Touchett, ‘not unless you bury me in a sitting posture, as some of the ancients—was it the ancients?—used to do.’
“不，我的孩子，”图切特先生说，“除非你以坐姿埋葬我，就像一些古人——是古人吗？——过去常做的那样。”

‘Ah, daddy, don’t talk about that,’ Ralph murmured. ‘You mustn’t deny that you’re getting better.’
“啊，爸爸，别谈这个，”拉尔夫低声说道。 “你不能否认你正在好转。”

‘There will be no need of my denying it if you don’t say it,’ the old man answered. ‘Why should we prevaricate just at the last? We never prevaricated before. I’ve got to die some time, and it’s better to die when one’s sick than when one’s well. I’m very sickas sick as I shall ever be. I hope you don’t want to prove that I shall ever be worse than this? That would be too bad. You don’t? Well then.’
“你不说，我也没必要否认。”老人回答道。 ‘为什么我们要到最后才搪塞呢？我们以前从来没有搪塞过。我总有一天会死的，生病时死比健康时死要好。我病得很重，而且以后也会病得很重。我希望你不想证明我会比这更糟糕？那就太糟糕了。你不知道吗？好吧。'

Having made this excellent point he became quiet; but the next time that Ralph was with him he again addressed himself to conversation. The nurse had gone to her supper and Ralph was alone in charge, having just relieved Mrs. Touchett, who had been on guard since dinner. The room was lighted only by the flickering fire, which of late had become necessary, and Ralph’s tall shadow was projected over wall and ceiling with an outline constantly varying but always grotesque.
讲完这个绝妙的观点后，他变得安静了。但当拉尔夫下次和他在一起时，他又开始谈话了。护士去吃晚饭了，拉尔夫独自负责，刚刚接替了自晚餐后就一直在值班的图切特夫人。房间里只有闪烁的火光照亮，最近这已成为必要，拉尔夫高大的影子投射在墙壁和天花板上，轮廓不断变化，但总是怪诞的。

‘Who’s that with me—is it my son?’ the old man asked.
“和我在一起的是谁——是我的儿子吗？”老人问道。

‘Yes, it’s your son, daddy.’
“是的，这是你的儿子，爸爸。”

‘And is there no one else?’
“那么没有其他人了吗？”

‘No one else.’
'没有别人了。'

Mr. Touchett said nothing for a while; and then, ‘I want to talk a little,’ he went on.
杜切特先生沉默了一会儿。然后，“我想谈谈，”他继续说道。

‘Won’t it tire you?’ Ralph demurred.
“这不会让你感到疲倦吗？”拉尔夫反驳道。

‘It won’t matter if it does. I shall have a long rest. I want to talk about you.
‘就算是这样也没关系。我要好好休息一下。我想谈谈你。

Ralph had drawn nearer to the bed; he sat leaning forward with his hand on his father’s. ‘You had better select a brighter topic.’
拉尔夫已经靠近床了。他坐在那里，身体前倾，手放在父亲的手上。 “你最好选择一个更明亮的话题。”

‘You were always bright; I used to be proud of your brightness. I should like so much to think you’d do something.’
‘你总是很聪明；我曾经为你的光彩感到骄傲。我非常希望你能做点什么。

‘If you leave us,’ said Ralph, ‘I shall do nothing but miss you.’
“如果你离开我们，”拉尔夫说，“我除了想念你什么也做不了。”

‘That’s just what I don’t want; it’s what I want to talk about. You must get a new interest.’
‘这正是我不想要的；这就是我想谈的。你必须找到新的兴趣。

‘I don’t want a new interest, daddy. I have more old ones than I know what to do with.’
“我不想有新的兴趣，爸爸。我有更多的旧东西，多到我不知道该怎么处理。

The old man lay there looking at his son; his face was the face of the dying, but his eyes were the eyes of Daniel Touchett. He seemed to be reckoning over Ralph’s interests. ‘Of course you have your mother,’ he said at last. ‘You’ll take care of her.’
老人躺在那里看着他的儿子。他的脸是垂死者的脸，但他的眼睛是丹尼尔·图切特的眼睛。他似乎正在考虑拉尔夫的利益。 “当然，你有你的母亲，”他最后说道。 “你会照顾她的。”

‘My mother will always take care of herself,’ Ralph returned.
“我妈妈会永远照顾自己的，”拉尔夫回答道。

‘Well,’ said his father, ‘perhaps as she grows older she’ll need a little help.’
“好吧，”他的父亲说，“也许随着她年龄的增长，她会需要一点帮助。”

‘I shall not see that. She’ll outlive me.’
‘我不会看到那样的。她会比我活得更久。

‘Very likely she will; but that’s no reason-!’ Mr. Touchett let his phrase die away in a helpless but not quite querulous sigh and remained silent again.
“她很可能会的；但这不是理由——！”图切特先生无助地叹了口气，但又不那么抱怨了，他的话戛然而止，再次保持沉默。

‘Don’t trouble yourself about us,’ said his son. ‘My mother and I get on very well together, you know.’
“别为我们操心，”他的儿子说。 “你知道，我和我妈妈相处得很好。”

‘You get on by always being apart; that’s not natural.’
“总是分开才能相处；这不自然。

‘If you leave us we shall probably see more of each other.’
“如果你离开我们，我们可能会更多地见面。”

‘Well,’ the old man observed with wandering irrelevance, ‘it can’t be said that my death will make much difference in your mother’s life.’
“好吧，”老人语无伦次地说道，“不能说我的死会对你母亲的生活产生多大影响。”

‘It will probably make more than you think.’
“它赚的钱可能比你想象的还要多。”

‘Well, she’ll have more money,’ said Mr. Touchett. ‘I’ve left her a good wife’s portion, just as if she had been a good wife.’
“好吧，她会有更多的钱，”图切特先生说。 “我给她留下了好妻子的一份，就像她是一个好妻子一样。”

‘She has been one, daddy, according to her own theory. She has never troubled you.’
“根据她自己的理论，爸爸，她曾经是其中之一。”她从来没有给你添麻烦。

‘Ah, some troubles are pleasant,’ Mr. Touchett murmured. ‘Those you’ve given me for instance. But your mother has been less—lesswhat shall I call it? less out of the way since I’ve been ill. I presume she knows I’ve noticed it.’
“啊，有些烦恼是令人愉快的，”图切特先生低声说道。 ‘例如你给我的那些。但你的母亲却少了——少了，我该怎么称呼它呢？自从我生病以来，我就不再那么碍事了。我想她知道我已经注意到了。

‘I shall certainly tell her so; I’m so glad you mention it.’
“我一定会这样告诉她；我很高兴你提到这一点。

‘It won’t make any difference to her; she doesn’t do it to please me. She does it to please—to please-’ And he lay a while trying to think why she did it. ‘She does it because it suits her. But that’s not what I want to talk about,’ he added. ‘It’s about you. You’ll be very well off.’
“这对她来说没有任何区别；”她这样做并不是为了取悦我。她这样做是为了取悦——为了取悦——”他躺了一会儿，试图思考她为什么这么做。 ‘她这样做是因为这适合她。但这不是我想谈论的，”他补充道。 ‘是关于你的。你会过得很好的。

‘Yes,’ said Ralph, ‘I know that. But I hope you’ve not forgotten the talk we had a year ago—when I told you exactly what money I should need and begged you to make some good use of the rest.’
“是的，”拉尔夫说，“我知道。”但我希望你没有忘记我们一年前的谈话——当时我确切地告诉了你我需要多少钱，并恳求你好好利用剩下的钱。”

‘Yes, yes, I remember. I made a new will—in a few days. I suppose it was the first time such a thing had happened—a young man trying to get a will made against him.’
‘是的，是的，我记得。几天之内，我立了一份新的遗嘱。我想这是第一次发生这样的事情——一个年轻人试图立下一份针对他的遗嘱。”

‘It is not against me,’ said Ralph. ‘It would be against me to have a large property to take care of. It’s impossible for a man in my state of health to spend much money, and enough is as good as a feast.’
“这并不是针对我，”拉尔夫说。 “拥有一大笔财产需要照顾对我来说是不利的。以我这样的健康状况，不可能花很多钱，吃饱就好。

‘Well, you’ll have enough—and something over. There will be more than enough for one—there will be enough for two.’
“好吧，你已经受够了——还有一些事情已经结束了。对于一个人来说绰绰有余——对于两个人来说也足够了。

‘That’s too much,’ said Ralph.
“这太过分了，”拉尔夫说。

‘Ah, don’t say that. The best thing you can do, when I’m gone, will be to marry.’
‘啊，别这么说。当我离开后，你能做的最好的事情就是结婚。

Ralph had foreseen what his father was coming to, and this suggestion was by no means fresh. It had long been Mr. Touchett’s most ingenious way of taking the cheerful view of his son’s possible duration. Ralph had usually treated it facetiously; but present circumstances proscribed the facetious. He simply fell back in his chair and returned his father’s appealing gaze.
拉尔夫已经预见到了他父亲的处境，这个建议并不新鲜。长期以来，这是图切特先生最巧妙的方式，他以乐观的态度看待儿子可能的寿命。拉尔夫通常以开玩笑的方式对待它。但目前的情况不允许开玩笑。他只是向后靠在椅子上，回应了父亲迷人的目光。

‘If I, with a wife who hasn’t been very fond of me, have had a very happy life,’ said the old man, carrying his ingenuity further still, ‘what a life mightn’t you have if you should marry a person different from Mrs. Touchett. There are more different from her than there are like her.’ Ralph still said nothing; and after a pause his father resumed softly: ‘What do you think of your cousin?’
“如果我和一个不太喜欢我的妻子过着非常幸福的生活，”老人进一步发挥了他的聪明才智，“如果你娶了一个不怎么喜欢我的妻子，你的生活会是什么样子？与图切特夫人不同的人。与她不同的人比与她相似的人还要多。 拉尔夫仍然什么也没说；停顿了一下，父亲轻声说道：“你觉得你的表弟怎么样？”

At this Ralph started, meeting the question with a strained smile. ‘Do I understand you to propose that I should marry Isabel?’
拉尔夫听到这个问题，脸上露出紧张的微笑。 “我理解你是在提议我嫁给伊莎贝尔吗？”

‘Well, that’s what it comes to in the end. Don’t you like Isabel?’
‘好吧，这就是最后的结果。你不喜欢伊莎贝尔吗？

‘Yes, very much.’ And Ralph got up from his chair and wandered over to the fire. He stood before it an instant and then he stooped and stirred it mechanically.
“是的，非常喜欢。”拉尔夫从椅子上站起来，走到火边。他在它面前站了一会儿，然后弯下腰，机械地搅拌它。

‘I like Isabel very much,’ he repeated.
“我非常喜欢伊莎贝尔，”他重复道。

‘Well,’ said his father, ‘I know she likes you. She has told me how much she likes you.’
“好吧，”他父亲说，“我知道她喜欢你。”她告诉我她有多喜欢你。

‘Did she remark that she would like to marry me?’
“她有没有说过想嫁给我？”

‘No, but she can’t have anything against you. And she’s the most charming young lady I’ve ever seen. And she would be good to you. I have thought a great deal about it.’
“不，但她不能反对你。她是我见过的最迷人的年轻女士。而且她也会对你很好。我对此想了很多。

‘So have I,’ said Ralph, coming back to the bedside again. ‘I don’t mind telling you that.’
“我也是，”拉尔夫说着，又回到床边。 “我不介意告诉你这一点。”

‘You are in love with her then? I should think you would be. It’s as if she came over on purpose.’
‘那你爱上她了吗？我应该认为你会的。就好像她是故意过来的一样。”

‘No, I’m not in love with her; but I should be if—if certain things were different.’
“不，我不爱她；我不爱她。”但如果——如果某些事情有所不同的话，我应该是这样的。”

‘Ah, things are always different from what they might be,’ said the old man. ‘If you wait for them to change you’ll never do anything. I don’t know whether you know,’ he went on; ‘but I suppose there’s no harm in my alluding to it at such an hour as this: there was some one wanted to marry Isabel the other day, and she wouldn’t have him.’
“啊，事情总是与实际情况不同，”老人说。 “如果你等待他们改变，你将永远不会做任何事情。我不知道你是否知道，”他继续说道。 “但我想我在这样的时刻提及这件事并没有什么坏处：前几天有人想嫁给伊莎贝尔，但她不肯娶他。”

‘I know she refused Warburton: he told me himself.’
“我知道她拒绝了沃伯顿：他亲自告诉我的。”

‘Well, that proves there’s a chance for somebody else.’
“好吧，这证明其他人还有机会。”

‘Somebody else took his chance the other day in London—and got nothing by it.’
“前几天，有人在伦敦抓住了机会，但一无所获。”

‘Was it you?’ Mr. Touchett eagerly asked.
“是你吗？”图切特先生急切地问道。

‘No, it was an older friend; a poor gentleman who came over from America to see about it.’
“不，那是一位年长的朋友；一位从美国过来看看这件事的可怜的绅士。

‘Well, I’m sorry for him, whoever he was. But it only proves what I say—that the way’s open to you.’
“好吧，我为他感到难过，不管他是谁。但这只是证明了我所说的——道路向你敞开。

‘If it is, dear father, it’s all the greater pity that I’m unable to tread it. I haven’t many convictions; but I have three or four that I hold strongly. One is that people, on the whole, had better not marry their cousins. Another is that people in an advanced stage of pulmonary disorder had better not marry at all.’
“如果是的话，亲爱的父亲，我更遗憾的是我无法踏上它。”我没有多少信念；但我有三四个我坚定地持有。一是人们总体上最好不要与自己的表兄弟结婚。另一个建议是，处于肺部疾病晚期的人最好根本不要结婚。

The old man raised his weak hand and moved it to and fro before his face. ‘What do you mean by that? You look at things in a way that would make everything wrong. What sort of a cousin is a cousin that you had never seen for more than twenty years of her life? We’re all each other’s cousins, and if we stopped at that the human race would die out. It’s just the same with your bad lung. You’re a great deal better than you used to be. All you want is to lead a natural life. It is a great deal more natural to marry a pretty young lady that you’re in love with than it is to remain single on false principles.’
老人抬起虚弱的手，在自己面前来回晃动。 '你是什么意思？你看待事物的方式会让一切都变得错误。二十多年没见过的表姐算什么表姐？我们都是彼此的表兄弟，如果我们就此停止，人类就会灭绝。这和你的肺不好是一样的。你比以前好多了。你想要的只是过一种自然的生活。与一位你所爱的漂亮年轻女士结婚比在错误的原则下保持单身要自然得多。

‘I’m not in love with Isabel,’ said Ralph.
“我不爱伊莎贝尔，”拉尔夫说。

‘You said just now that you would be if you didn’t think it wrong. I want to prove to you that it isn’t wrong.’
‘你刚才还说，如果你没觉得错的话，你就会的。我想向你证明这并没有错。”

‘It will only tire you, dear daddy,’ said Ralph, who marvelled at his father’s tenacity and at his finding strength to insist. ‘Then where shall we all be?’
“这只会让你感到疲倦，亲爱的爸爸，”拉尔夫说，他对父亲的坚韧和坚持的力量感到惊讶。 “那么我们大家会在哪里呢？”

‘Where shall you be if I don’t provide for you? You won’t have anything to do with the bank, and you won’t have me to take care of. You say you’ve so many interests; but I can’t make them out.’
‘如果我不供养你，你会在哪里？你不会再跟银行有任何关系，也不会再有我照顾。你说你有很多兴趣；但我看不出来。”

Ralph leaned back in his chair with folded arms; his eyes were fixed for some time in meditation. At last, with the air of a man fairly mustering courage, ‘I take a great interest in my cousin,’ he said, ‘but not the sort of interest you desire. I shall not live many years; but I hope I shall live long enough to see what she does with herself. She’s entirely independent of me; I can exercise very little influence upon her life. But I should like to do something for her.’
拉尔夫双臂交叉靠在椅子上。他的眼睛凝视了一会儿，陷入了沉思。最后，他以一种鼓足勇气的神气说道：“我对我的表弟很感兴趣，但不是你想要的那种兴趣。”我活不了多少年了；但我希望我能活得足够长，看看她对自己做了什么。她完全独立于我；我对她的生活影响很小。但我想为她做点什么。

‘What should you like to do?’
“你想做什么？”

‘I should like to put a little wind in her sails.’
“我想给她的风帆带来一点风。”

‘What do you mean by that?’
'你是什么意思？'

‘I should like to put it into her power to do some of the things she wants. She wants to see the world for instance. I should like to put money in her purse.’
“我想让她有能力去做一些她想做的事情。例如，她想看看这个世界。我想把钱放进她的钱包里。

‘Ah, I’m glad you’ve thought of that,’ said the old man. ‘But I’ve thought of it too. I’ve left her a legacy—five thousand pounds.’
“啊，我很高兴你想到了这一点，”老人说。 ‘但我也想到了。我给她留下了一笔遗产——五千英镑。

‘That’s capital; it’s very kind of you. But I should like to do a little more.’
‘这就是资本；你真是太好了。但我还想多做一点。”

Something of that veiled acuteness with which it had been on Daniel Touchett’s part the habit of a lifetime to listen to a financial proposition still lingered in the face in which the invalid had not obliterated the man of happiness. ‘I shall be happy to consider it,’ he said softly.
丹尼尔·图切特一生中习惯于听取财务建议，但他脸上仍然残留着那种隐秘的敏锐，病人并没有抹杀幸福的人。 “我会很乐意考虑的，”他轻声说道。

‘Isabel’s poor then. My mother tells me that she has but a few hundred dollars a year. I should like to make her rich.’
“那么伊莎贝尔很穷。”我妈妈告诉我，她一年只有几百美元。我想让她变得富有。

‘What do you mean by rich?’
“你所说的富有是什么意思？”

‘I call people rich when they’re able to meet the requirements of their imagination. Isabel has a great deal of imagination.’
“当人们能够满足自己想象力的要求时，我就称他们为富有的人。伊莎贝尔有丰富的想象力。

‘So have you, my son,’ said Mr. Touchett, listening very attentively but a little confusedly.
“我的儿子，你也一样，”图切特先生说，他非常专注地听着，但有点困惑。

‘You tell me I shall have money enough for two. What I want is that you should kindly relieve me of my superfluity and make it over to Isabel. Divide my inheritance into two equal halves and give her the second.’
“你告诉我，我的钱足够两个人吃。”我想要的是你应该解除我的多余，并将其交给伊莎贝尔。把我的遗产分成两等份，然后把第二份给她。”

‘To do what she likes with?’
“做她喜欢做的事？”

‘Absolutely what she likes.’
“绝对是她喜欢的。”

‘And without an equivalent?’
“没有同等的东西吗？”

‘What equivalent could there be?’
“还有什么等价的东西呢？”

‘The one I’ve already mentioned.’
“就是我已经提到过的那个。”

‘Her marrying—some one or other? It’s just to do away with anything of that sort that I make my suggestion. If she has an easy income she’ll never have to marry for a support. That’s what I want cannily to prevent. She wishes to be free, and your bequest will make her free.’
“她要结婚了——是某个人还是那个人？我提出的建议只是为了消除此类行为。如果她收入丰厚，她就永远不需要为了赡养而结婚。这就是我想要精明地阻止的事情。她希望获得自由，而你的遗赠将使她获得自由。”

‘Well, you seem to have thought it out,’ said Mr. Touchett. ‘But I don’t see why you appeal to me. The money will be yours, and you can easily give it to her yourself.’
“嗯，看来你已经想好了，”图切特先生说。 “但我不明白你为什么吸引我。钱就是你的了，你可以轻松地自己给她。

Ralph openly stared. ‘Ah, dear father, I can’t offer Isabel money!’
拉尔夫公开地盯着。 “啊，亲爱的父亲，我不能给伊莎贝尔钱！​​”

The old man gave a groan. ‘Don’t tell me you’re not in love with her! Do you want me to have the credit of it?’
老者闷哼一声。 “别告诉我你不爱她！你想让我获得功劳吗？

‘Entirely. I should like it simply to be a clause in your will, without the slightest reference to me.’
'完全。我希望它只是你遗嘱中的一个条款，而不提及我。

‘Do you want me to make a new will then?’
“那你想让我立一份新遗嘱吗？”

‘A few words will do it; you can attend to it the next time you feel a little lively.’
‘几句话就可以了；下次你觉得有点热闹的时候就可以参加了。

‘You must telegraph to Mr. Hilary then. I’ll do nothing without my solicitor.’
“那么你必须给希拉里先生发电报。没有我的律师，我什么也做不了。

‘You shall see Mr. Hilary to-morrow.’
“明天你就会见到希拉里先生。”

‘He’ll think we’ve quarrelled, you and I,’ said the old man.
“他会认为我们吵架了，你和我，”老人说。

‘Very probably; I shall like him to think it,’ said Ralph, smiling; ‘and, to carry out the idea, I give you notice that I shall be very sharp, quite horrid and strange, with you.’
‘很可能； “我希望他能这么想。”拉尔夫微笑着说道。 “为了实现这个想法，我要通知你，我对你的态度将会非常尖锐、可怕和奇怪。”

The humour of this appeared to touch his father, who lay a little while taking it in. ‘I’ll do anything you like,’ Mr. Touchett said at last; ‘but I’m not sure it’s right. You say you want to put wind in her sails; but aren’t you afraid of putting too much?’
这句话的幽默感似乎触动了他的父亲，他躺了一会儿，一边听着这句话。 '但我不确定这是否正确。你说你想让她扬帆起航；但你不怕放太多吗？

‘I should like to see her going before the breeze!’ Ralph answered.
“我希望看到她在微风中前行！”拉尔夫回答道。

‘You speak as if it were for your mere amusement.’
“你说得好像只是为了好玩。”

‘So it is, a good deal.’
“确实如此，很划算。”

‘Well, I don’t think I understand,’ said Mr. Touchett with a sigh. ‘Young men are very different from what I was. When I cared for a girl—when I was young—I wanted to do more than look at her. You’ve scruples that I shouldn’t have had, and you’ve ideas that I shouldn’t have had either. You say Isabel wants to be free, and that her being rich will keep her from marrying for money. Do you think that she’s a girl to do that?’
“好吧，我想我不明白，”图切特先生叹了口气说。 “现在的年轻人和我以前有很大不同。当我照顾一个女孩时——当我年轻时——我想做的不仅仅是看着她。你有我不该有的顾忌，你也有我不该有的想法。你说伊莎贝尔想要自由，而她的富有将阻止她为了金钱而结婚。你认为她是一个女孩才能做出这样的事吗？

‘By no means. But she has less money than she has ever had before. Her father then gave her everything, because he used to spend his capital. She has nothing but the crumbs of that feast to live on, and she doesn’t really know how meagre they are—she has yet to learn it. My mother has told me all about it. Isabel will learn it when she’s really thrown upon the world, and it would be very painful to me to think of her coming to the consciousness of a lot of wants she should be unable to satisfy.’
'绝不是这样。但她的钱比以前少了。她的父亲然后把一切都给了她，因为他过去常常花掉他的资本。她除了那场盛宴的残渣之外一无所有，而且她并不真正知道这些残渣有多么贫乏——她还没有了解到这一点。我妈妈已经告诉我这一切了。当伊莎贝尔真正投身于这个世界时，她就会明白这一点，一想到她意识到自己有很多她本无法满足的需求，我就会感到非常痛苦。

‘I’ve left her five thousand pounds. She can satisfy a good many wants with that.’
“我给她留下了五千英镑。她可以用这个满足很多愿望。

‘She can indeed. But she would probably spend it in two or three years.’
‘她确实可以。但她可能会在两三年内花掉它。”

‘You think she’d be extravagant then?’
“你觉得她会很奢侈吗？”

‘Most certainly,’ said Ralph, smiling serenely.
“当然，”拉尔夫平静地微笑着说道。

Poor Mr. Touchett’s acuteness was rapidly giving place to pure confusion. ‘It would merely be a question of time then, her spending the larger sum?’
可怜的图切特先生的敏锐很快就被纯粹的混乱所取代。 “那么，她花的钱更多，只是时间问题吗？”

‘No—though at first I think she’d plunge into that pretty freely: she’d probably make over a part of it to each of her sisters. But after that she’d come to her senses, remember she has still a lifetime before her, and live within her means.’
“不——虽然一开始我认为她会很自由地投入其中：她可能会把其中的一部分转给她的每个姐妹。但在那之后，她醒悟过来，记住她还有余生，量入为出。

‘Well, you have worked it out,’ said the old man helplessly. ‘You do take an interest in her, certainly.’
“好吧，你已经解决了。”老人无奈地说。 “当然，你确实对她感兴趣。”

‘You can’t consistently say I go too far. You wished me to go further.’
‘你不能一直说我走得太远了。你希望我能走得更远。

‘Well, I don’t know,’ Mr. Touchett answered. ‘I don’t think I enter into your spirit. It seems to me immoral.’
“嗯，我不知道，”图切特先生回答道。 ‘我不认为我进入了你的精神。在我看来，这是不道德的。

‘Immoral, dear daddy?’
“不道德吗，亲爱的爸爸？”

‘Well, I don’t know that it’s right to make everything so easy for a person.’
“嗯，我不知道让一个人的一切变得如此简单是正确的。”

‘It surely depends upon the person. When the person’s good, your making things easy is all to the credit of virtue. To facilitate the execution of good impulses, what can be a nobler act?’
‘这当然取决于人。人品好的时候，你让事情变得容易，都是德行的功劳。为了促进良好冲动的执行，还有什么更高尚的行为呢？

This was a little difficult to follow, and Mr. Touchett considered it for a while. At last he said: ‘Isabel’s a sweet young thing; but do you think she’s so good as that?’
这有点难以理解，图切特先生考虑了一会儿。最后他说：“伊莎贝尔是个可爱的小姑娘；但你认为她有那么好吗？

‘She’s as good as her best opportunities,’ Ralph returned.
“她已经尽了最大的努力，”拉尔夫回答道。

‘Well,’ Mr. Touchett declared, ‘she ought to get a great many opportunities for sixty thousand pounds.’
“好吧，”图切特先生宣称，“她应该能用六万英镑得到很多机会。”

‘I’ve no doubt she will.’
“我毫不怀疑她会的。”

‘Of course I’ll do what you want,’ said the old man. ‘I only want to understand it a little.’
“当然，我会按照你的意愿去做。”老人说道。 “我只想了解一点。”

‘Well, dear daddy, don’t you understand it now?’ his son caressingly asked. ‘If you don’t we won’t take any more trouble about it. We’ll leave it alone.’
“好吧，亲爱的爸爸，你现在还不明白吗？”他的儿子爱抚地问道。 “如果你不这样做，我们就不会再为此烦恼了。我们就不去管它了。

Mr. Touchett lay a long time still. Ralph supposed he had given up the attempt to follow. But at last, quite lucidly, he began again. ‘Tell me this first. Doesn’t it occur to you that a young lady with sixty thousand pounds may fall a victim to the fortune-hunters?’
图切特先生一动不动地躺了很长时间。拉尔夫认为他已经放弃了跟随的尝试。但最后，他很清醒地又开始了。 ‘先告诉我这个。你难道没有想到，一个身价六万英镑的年轻女士可能会成为财富猎手的牺牲品吗？

‘She’ll hardly fall a victim to more than one.’
“她几乎不会成为不止一个的受害者。”

‘Well, one’s too many.’
“好吧，一个太多了。”

‘Decidedly. That’s a risk, and it has entered into my calculation. I think it’s appreciable, but I think it’s small, and I’m prepared to take it.’
” “当然。这是一个风险，它已经进入我的计算之中。我认为这很可观，但我认为它很小，我准备接受它。

Poor Mr. Touchett’s acuteness had passed into perplexity, and his perplexity now passed into admiration. ‘Well, you have gone into it!’ he repeated. ‘But I don’t see what good you’re to get of it.’
可怜的图切特先生的敏锐已经变成了困惑，而他的困惑现在变成了钦佩。 “好吧，你已经进去了！”他重复道。 “但我不明白你能从中得到什么好处。”

Ralph leaned over his father’s pillows and gently smoothed them; he was aware their talk had been unduly prolonged. ‘I shall get just the good I said a few moments ago I wished to put into Isabel’s reachthat of having met the requirements of my imagination. But it’s scandalous, the way I’ve taken advantage of you!’
拉尔夫靠在父亲的枕头上，轻轻地抚平它们。他知道他们的谈话被过分地拖长了。 “我将得到我刚才所说的我希望让伊莎贝尔能够达到的好处，即满足了我的想象力的要求。但这是可耻的，我利用你的方式！”

Chapter 19
第19章

As Mrs. Touchett had foretold, Isabel and Madame Merle were thrown much together during the illness of their host, so that if they had not become intimate it would have been almost a breach of good manners. Their manners were of the best, but in addition to this they happened to please each other. It is perhaps too much to say that they swore an eternal friendship, but tacitly at least they called the future to witness. Isabel did so with a perfectly good conscience, though she would have hesitated to admit she was intimate with her new friend in the high sense she privately attached to this term. She often wondered indeed if she ever had been, or ever could be, intimate with any one. She had an ideal of friendship as well as of several other sentiments, which it failed to seem to her in this case—it had not seemed to her in other cases—that the actual completely expressed. But she often reminded herself that there were essential reasons why one’s ideal could never become concrete. It was a thing to believe in, not to see—a matter of faith, not of experience. Experience, however, might supply us with very creditable imitations of it, and the part of wisdom was to make the best of these. Certainly, on the whole, Isabel had never encountered a more agreeable and interesting figure than Madame Merle; she had never met a person having less of that fault which is the principal obstacle to friendship—the air of reproducing the more tiresome, the stale, the too-familiar parts of one’s own character. The gates of the girl’s confidence were opened wider than they had ever been; she said things to this amiable auditress that she had not yet said to any one. Sometimes she took alarm at her candour: it was as if she had given to a comparative stranger the key to her cabinet of jewels. These spiritual gems were the only ones of any magnitude that Isabel possessed, but there was all the greater reason for their being carefully guarded. Afterwards, however, she always remembered that one should never regret a generous error and that if Madame Merle had not the merits she attributed to her, so much the worse for Madame Merle. There was no doubt she had great merits—she was charming, sympathetic, intelligent, cultivated. More than this (for it had not been Isabel’s ill-fortune to go through life without meeting in her own sex several persons of whom no less could fairly be said), she was rare, superior and preeminent. There are many amiable people in the world, and Madame Merle was far from being vulgarly good natured and restlessly witty. She knew how to think—an accomplishment rare in women; and she had thought to very good purpose. Of course, too, she knew how to feel; Isabel couldn’t have spent a week with her without being sure of that. This was indeed Madame Merle’s great talent, her most perfect gift. Life had told upon her; she had felt it strongly, and it was part of the satisfaction to be taken in her society that when the girl talked of what she was pleased to call serious matters this lady understood her so easily and quickly. Emotion, it is true, had become with her rather historic; she made no secret of the fact that the fount of passion, thanks to having been rather violently tapped at one period, didn’t flow quite so freely as of yore. She proposed moreover, as well as expected, to cease feeling; she freely admitted that of old she had been a little mad, and now she pretended to be perfectly sane.
正如图切特夫人所预言的那样，伊莎贝尔和梅尔夫人在主人生病期间经常在一起，因此，如果她们没有变得亲密，那几乎就违反了礼貌。他们的举止是最好的，但除此之外，他们还碰巧彼此取悦。说他们宣誓永远的友谊也许有些过分，但至少他们心照不宣地呼唤未来来见证。伊莎贝尔这样做是出于良心，尽管她会犹豫是否承认自己与新朋友的亲密程度是她私下所赋予的这个词的高度意义。她经常想知道她是否曾经或可能与任何人亲密。她有一种友谊的理想，也有其他几种感情，但在她看来，在这种情况下——在其他情况下她似乎也没有——实际情况完全表达了这种理想。但她时常提醒自己，理想永远无法具体化是有其本质原因的。这是一件需要相信的事情，而不是亲眼所见的事情——这是一个信仰的问题，而不是经验的问题。然而，经验可能为我们提供非常可信的模仿，而智慧的一部分就是充分利用这些模仿。当然，总的来说，伊莎贝尔从来没有遇到过比梅尔夫人更令人愉快和有趣的人物。她从来没有见过一个人有这样的错误，这是友谊的主要障碍——再现自己性格中更令人厌烦、陈旧、过于熟悉的部分的神态。女孩的信心之门比以往任何时候都敞开了。她对这位和蔼可亲的女审计员说了一些她还没有对任何人说过的话。 有时她对自己的坦率感到震惊：就好像她把珠宝柜的钥匙交给了一个相对陌生的人。这些精神宝石是伊莎贝尔唯一拥有的同等规模的宝石，但更重要的原因是要小心守护它们。然而，事后她始终记得，一个人永远不应该为一个慷慨的错误而后悔，如果梅尔夫人没有她所赋予的优点，那么对梅尔夫人来说就更糟糕了。毫无疑问，她有很大的优点——她迷人、富有同情心、聪明、有教养。不仅如此（因为伊莎贝尔一生中没有遇到几个可以公平地说的同性人物，这并不是她的不幸），她是罕见的、优越的和卓越的。世界上和蔼可亲的人有很多，而梅尔夫人绝非粗俗的善良和机智的人。她知道如何思考——这在女性中是罕见的。她的想法非常好。当然，她也知道如何感受。如果不确定这一点，伊莎贝尔不可能和她一起度过一个星期。这确实是梅尔夫人的伟大才能，也是她最完美的天赋。生活告诉了她；她强烈地感受到了这一点，当这个女孩谈论她乐于称之为严肃的事情时，这位女士如此轻松而迅速地理解了她，这也是她在社会中感到满足的一部分。确实，情感对她来说已经变得相当历史性了。她毫不掩饰这样一个事实，即激情的源泉由于在某个时期受到了相当猛烈的挖掘，不再像以前那样自由流动。她还提议，正如她所期望的那样，停止感情。她坦白地承认，以前她有点疯狂，现在她假装完全清醒。

‘I judge more than I used to,’ she said to Isabel, ‘but it seems to me one has earned the right. One can’t judge till one’s forty; before that we’re too eager, too hard, too cruel, and in addition much too ignorant. I’m sorry for you; it will be a long time before you’re forty. But every gain’s a loss of some kind; I often think that after forty one can’t really feel. The freshness, the quickness have certainly gone. You’ll keep them longer than most people; it will be a great satisfaction to me to see you some years hence. I want to see what life makes of you. One thing’s certain—it can’t spoil you. It may pull you about horribly, but I defy it to break you up.’
“我比以前更多地评判，”她对伊莎贝尔说，“但在我看来，人们已经赢得了权利。”四十岁才能判断；在此之前，我们太渴望、太努力、太残忍，而且还太无知。我为你感到难过;距离你四十岁还有很长一段时间。但每一次收获都意味着某种损失；我常常想，四十一岁以后就没有什么感觉了。新鲜感、敏捷性肯定已经消失了。你会比大多数人保留它们更长的时间；几年后见到你我将感到非常满意。我想看看生活让你变成什么样子。有一点是肯定的——它不会破坏你。它可能会严重地拉扯你，但我不忍心让你心碎。

Isabel received this assurance as a young soldier, still panting from a slight skirmish in which he has come off with honour, might receive a pat on the shoulder from his colonel. Like such a recognition of merit it seemed to come with authority. How could the lightest word do less on the part of a person who was prepared to say, of almost everything Isabel told her, ‘Oh, I’ve been in that, my dear; it passes, like everything else.’ On many of her interlocutors Madame Merle might have produced an irritating effect; it was disconcertingly difficult to surprise her. But Isabel, though by no means incapable of desiring to be effective, had not at present this impulse. She was too sincere, too interested in her judicious companion. And then moreover Madame Merle never said such things in the tone of triumph or of boastfulness; they dropped from her like cold confessions.
伊莎贝尔得到了这样的保证，当时他还是一名年轻的士兵，仍在因一场小冲突而气喘吁吁，但他在这场小冲突中赢得了荣誉，他的上校可能会拍拍他的肩膀。就像这种对优点的认可一样，它似乎带有权威。对于一个准备好说出伊莎贝尔告诉她的几乎所有事情的人来说，最轻的一句话怎么可能没有作用呢？梅尔夫人可能对她的许多对话者产生了令人恼火的影响；就像其他事情一样，一切都会过去。要给她带来惊喜是极其困难的。但伊莎贝尔虽然并非没有能力发挥作用，但目前还没有这种冲动。她对她明智的伴侣太真诚、太感兴趣。而且，梅尔夫人从来没有以胜利或自夸的语气说过这样的话。它们就像冰冷的忏悔一样从她身上消失了。

A period of bad weather had settled upon Gardencourt; the days grew shorter and there was an end to the pretty tea-parties on the lawn. But our young woman had long indoor conversations with her fellow visitor, and in spite of the rain the two ladies often sallied forth for a walk, equipped with the defensive apparatus which the English climate and the English genius have between them brought to such perfection. Madame Merle liked almost everything, including the English rain. ‘There’s always a little of it and never too much at once,’ she said; ‘and it never wets you and it always smells good.’ She declared that in England the pleasures of smell were great—that in this inimitable island there was a certain mixture of fog and beer and soot which, however odd it might sound, was the national aroma, and was most agreeable to the nostril; and she used to lift the sleeve of her British overcoat and bury her nose in it, inhaling the clear, fine scent of the wool. Poor Ralph Touchett, as soon as the autumn had begun to define itself, became almost a prisoner; in bad weather he was unable to step out of the house, and he used sometimes to stand at one of the windows with his hands in his pockets and, from a countenance half-rueful, half-critical, watch Isabel and Madame Merle as they walked down the avenue under a pair of umbrellas. The roads about Gardencourt were so firm, even in the worst weather, that the two ladies always came back with a healthy glow in their cheeks, looking at the soles of their neat, stout boots and declaring that their walk had done them inexpressible good. Before luncheon, always, Madame Merle was engaged; Isabel admired and envied her rigid possession of her morning. Our heroine had always passed for a person of resources and had taken a certain pride in being one; but she wandered, as by the wrong side of the wall of a private garden, round the enclosed talents, accomplishments, aptitudes of Madame Merle. She found herself desiring to emulate them, and in twenty such ways this lady presented herself as a model. ‘I should like awfully to be so!’ Isabel secretly exclaimed, more than once, as one after another of her friend’s fine aspects caught the light, and before long she knew that she had learned a lesson from a high authority. It took no great time indeed for her to feel herself, as the phrase is, under an influence. ‘What’s the harm,’ she wondered, ‘so long as it’s a good one? The more one’s under a good influence the better. The only thing is to see our steps as we take them—to understand them as we go. That, no doubt, I shall always do. I needn’t be afraid of becoming too pliable; isn’t it my fault that I’m not pliable enough?’ It is said that imitation is the sincerest flattery; and if Isabel was sometimes moved to gape at her friend aspiringly and despairingly it was not so much because she desired herself to shine as because she wished to hold up the lamp for Madame Merle. She liked her extremely, but was even more dazzled than attracted. She sometimes asked herself what Henrietta Stackpole would say to her thinking so much of this perverted product of their common soil, and had a conviction that it would be severely judged. Henrietta would not at all subscribe to Madame Merle; for reasons she could not have defined this truth came home to the girl. On the other hand she was equally sure that, should the occasion offer, her new friend would strike off some happy view of her old: Madame Merle was too humorous, too observant, not to do justice to Henrietta, and on becoming acquainted with her would probably give the measure of a tact which Miss Stackpole couldn’t hope to emulate. She appeared to have in her experience a touchstone for everything, and somewhere in the capacious pocket of her genial memory she would find the key to Henrietta’s value. ‘That’s the great thing,’ Isabel solemnly pondered; ‘that’s the supreme good fortune: to be in a better position for appreciating people than they are for appreciating you.’ And she added that such, when one considered it, was simply the essence of the aristocratic situation. In this light, if in none other, one should aim at the aristocratic situation.
花园考特遭遇一段时期的恶劣天气。白天越来越短，草坪上漂亮的茶会也结束了。但是我们的年轻女子在室内与她的同伴进行了长时间的交谈，尽管下着雨，两位女士仍然经常出去散步，配备了英国气候和英国天才所赋予的完美防御装置。梅尔夫人几乎喜欢一切，包括英国的雨。 “总是有一点，但一次永远不会太多，”她说。 “它永远不会弄湿你，而且总是闻起来很香。”她宣称，在英国，嗅觉的乐趣是巨大的——在这个独一无二的岛上，有一种雾气、啤酒和煤烟的混合物，不管听起来多么奇怪，民族香气，最宜入鼻；她常常掀起英国大衣的袖子，把鼻子埋进去，呼吸着羊毛的清香。可怜的拉尔夫·图切特，秋天一到，就几乎成了囚犯。天气不好时，他无法走出家门，有时他会双手插在口袋里站在一扇窗户前，脸上表情半是悔恨半是批评，看着伊莎贝尔和梅尔夫人撑着雨伞沿着林荫大道走去。花园考特周围的道路是如此坚固，即使在最恶劣的天气下，两位女士回来时总是面带健康的光芒，看着她们整洁、粗壮的靴子的鞋底，宣称她们的步行给她们带来了难以言喻的好处。午饭前，梅尔夫人总是订婚了。伊莎贝尔既钦佩又羡慕她对早晨的严格掌控。 我们的女主人公一直被认为是一个有资源的人，并且为自己是一个资源丰富的人而感到自豪。但她却像在私人花园的墙的另一边一样徘徊，围绕着梅尔夫人的才华、成就和才能。她发现自己渴望效仿他们，这位女士以二十种这样的方式将自己展现为典范。 “我真希望如此！”伊莎贝尔不止一次地暗自感叹，当她朋友的一个又一个美好的一面被暴露出来时，不久她就知道自己从一位高层权威那里得到了教训。确实，没过多久，她就感觉到自己，正如那句话所说，受到了影响。 “只要是好事，”她想道，“有什么坏处呢？”越受到良好的影响越好。唯一要做的就是看到我们迈出的脚步——边走边理解它们。毫无疑问，我将永远这样做。我不必害怕变得太软弱；难道是我不够柔顺吗？ 都说模仿是最真诚的奉承；如果说伊莎贝尔有时会激动地目瞪口呆地看着她的朋友，充满渴望和绝望，那与其说是因为她希望自己发光，不如说是因为她希望为梅尔夫人举起灯。她非常喜欢她，但与其说是被吸引，不如说是眼花缭乱。她有时会问自己，亨丽埃塔·斯塔克波尔（Henrietta Stackpole）会对她这么想，对他们共同土壤上的这种变态产物说些什么，并坚信这将受到严厉的审判。亨丽埃塔根本不同意梅尔夫人的观点。由于一些她无法解释的原因，女孩明白了这个事实。 另一方面，她同样确信，如果有机会，她的新朋友会消除她对旧朋友的一些愉快的看法：梅尔夫人太幽默，太敏锐，不公正地对待亨利埃塔，并且在与她熟悉之后很可能会表现出斯塔克波尔小姐无法效仿的机智。她的经历似乎是一切事物的试金石，在她亲切的记忆的广阔口袋里的某个地方，她会找到亨利埃塔价值的钥匙。 “这是一件伟大的事情，”伊莎贝尔严肃地沉思道。 “这是至高无上的幸运：能够比他们欣赏你更能欣赏人们。”她补充说，当人们思考这一点时，这就是贵族处境的本质。从这一点来看，如果没有其他目的，我们就应该瞄准贵族处境。

I may not count over all the links in the chain which led Isabel to think of Madame Merle’s situation as aristocratic—a view of it never expressed in any reference made to it by that lady herself. She had known great things and great people, but she had never played a great part. She was one of the small ones of the earth; she had not been born to honours; she knew the world too well to nourish fatuous illusions on the article of her own place in it. She had encountered many of the fortunate few and was perfectly aware of those points at which their fortune differed from hers. But if by her informed measure she was no figure for a high scene, she had yet to Isabel’s imagination a sort of greatness. To be so cultivated and civilized, so wise and so easy, and still make so light of it—that was really to be a great lady, especially when one so carried and presented one’s self. It was as if somehow she had all society under contribution, and all the arts and graces it practised—or was the effect rather that of charming uses found for her, even from a distance, subtle service rendered by her to a clamorous world wherever she might be? After breakfast she wrote a succession of letters, as those arriving for her appeared innumerable: her correspondence was a source of surprise to Isabel when they sometimes walked together to the village post-office to deposit Madame Merle’s offering to the mail. She knew more people, as she told Isabel, than she knew what to do with, and something was always turning up to be written about. Of painting she was devotedly fond, and made no more of brushing in a sketch than of pulling off her gloves. At Gardencourt she was perpetually taking advantage of an hour’s sunshine to go out with a camp-stool and a box of water-colours. That she was a brave musician we have already perceived, and it was evidence of the fact that when she seated herself at the piano, as she always did in the evening, her listeners resigned themselves without a murmur to losing the grace of her talk. Isabel, since she had known her, felt ashamed of her own facility, which she now looked upon as basely inferior; and indeed, though she had been thought rather a prodigy at home, the loss to society when, in taking her place upon the music-stool, she turned her back to the room, was usually deemed greater than the gain. When Madame Merle was neither writing, nor painting, nor touching the piano, she was usually employed upon wonderful tasks of rich embroidery, cushions, curtains, decorations for the chimney-piece; an art in which her bold, free invention was as noted as the agility of her needle. She was never idle, for when engaged in none of the ways I have mentioned she was either reading (she appeared to Isabel to read ‘everything important’), or walking out, or playing patience with the cards, or talking with her fellow inmates. And with all this she had always the social quality, was never rudely absent and yet never too seated. She laid down her pastimes as easily as she took them up; she worked and talked at the same time, and appeared to impute scant worth to anything she did. She gave away her sketches and tapestries; she rose from the piano or remained there, according to the convenience of her auditors, which she always unerringly divined. She was in short the most comfortable, profitable, amenable person to live with. If for Isabel she had a fault it was that she was not natural; by which the girl meant, not that she was either affected or pretentious, since from these vulgar vices no woman could have been more exempt, but that her nature had been too much overlaid by custom and her angles too much rubbed away. She had become too flexible, too useful, was too ripe and too final. She was in a word too perfectly the social animal that man and woman are supposed to have been intended to be; and she had rid herself of every remnant of that tonic wildness which we may assume to have belonged even to the most amiable persons in the ages before country-house life was the fashion. Isabel found it difficult to think of her in any detachment or privacy, she existed only in her relations, direct or indirect, with her fellow mortals. One might wonder what commerce she could possibly hold with her own spirit. One always ended, however, by feeling that a charming surface doesn’t necessarily prove one superficial; this was an illusion in which, in one’s youth, one had but just escaped being nourished. Madame Merle was not superficialnot she. She was deep, and her nature spoke none the less in her behaviour because it spoke a conventional tongue. ‘What’s language at all but a convention?’ said Isabel. ‘She has the good taste not to pretend, like some people I’ve met, to express herself by original signs.’
我可能无法计算出导致伊莎贝尔认为梅尔夫人的处境是贵族的链条中的所有环节——这位女士本人从未在任何提及中表达过这种观点。她认识伟大的事物和伟大的人，但她从未扮演过伟大的角色。她是地球上最小的孩子之一；她生来并不高贵。她对这个世界太了解了，不会对自己在其中的地位产生愚蠢的幻想。她遇到过许多幸运的人，并且非常清楚他们的命运与她的不同之处。但如果以她的见多识广的标准来看，她算不上上流社会的人物，那么在伊莎贝尔的想象中，她还没有达到某种伟大的程度。如此有教养、如此文明、如此明智、如此从容，却又如此轻视——这才是真正的伟大女士，尤其是当一个人如此表现和展示自己时。就好像她以某种方式为整个社会以及它所实践的所有艺术和优雅做出了贡献——或者说是为她找到的迷人用途的效果，即使是从远处看，她也为这个喧闹的世界提供了微妙的服务，无论她在哪里可能？早餐后，她写了一连串的信，因为收到她的信似乎数不胜数：当他们有时一起步行到村里的邮局将梅尔夫人的提议存入邮件时，她的信件让伊莎贝尔感到惊讶。正如她告诉伊莎贝尔的那样，她认识的人比她不知道该怎么办的人还要多，而且总有一些事情可以写下来。她非常喜欢绘画，从不画草图，就像脱掉手套一样。在花园庭院，她总是利用一个小时的阳光，带着一张露营凳和一盒水彩画出去。 我们已经认识到她是一位勇敢的音乐家，这证明了当她坐在钢琴前时，就像她晚上总是做的那样，她的听众毫无怨言地听天由命，失去了她演讲的优雅。伊莎贝尔自从认识她以来，就为自己的能力感到羞愧，现在她认为自己的能力低劣到了极点。事实上，虽然她在家里被认为是一个神童，但当她坐在音乐凳上，背对房间时，对社会的损失通常被认为大于收益。当梅尔夫人既不写作、不绘画、也不弹钢琴的时候，她通常会从事精美的工作，比如丰富的刺绣、靠垫、窗帘、烟囱装饰等。在这门艺术中，她大胆、自由的发明就像她的针的敏捷一样引人注目。她从不闲着，因为当我没有提到她的任何一种方式时，她要么在读书（在伊莎贝尔看来，她读的是“所有重要的东西”），要么走出去，要么耐心玩牌，要么与她的狱友交谈。 。尽管如此，她始终具有社交品质，从不粗鲁地缺席，但也从不坐得太久。她轻松地放下了她的消遣，就像她开始了它们一样。她一边工作一边说话，似乎对她所做的一切都没有什么价值。她赠送了她的草图和挂毯；她是从钢琴上站起来，还是留在钢琴上，这取决于她的听众的方便，她总是准确地预测到这一点。简而言之，她是与她一起生活最舒适、最有利可图、最顺从的人。 如果说伊莎贝尔有什么缺点的话，那就是她不够自然。女孩的意思并不是说她要么做作，要么自命不凡，因为没有哪个女人能更免于这些粗俗的恶习，而是她的本性被习俗太多地覆盖了，她的棱角被太多地磨掉了。她变得太灵活、太有用、太成熟、太最终了。总而言之，她太完美了，男人和女人都应该成为这样的社会动物。她已经摆脱了那种狂野的残余，我们可以认为，在乡村别墅生活流行之前的时代，即使是最和蔼可亲的人也有这种狂野。伊莎贝尔发现很难以任何超然或私密的方式来思考她，她只存在于与她的凡人同胞直接或间接的关系中。人们可能想知道她能与自己的灵魂进行什么交易。然而，人们总是会觉得迷人的表面并不一定是肤浅的。这是一种在年轻时刚刚逃脱滋养的幻觉。梅尔夫人并不肤浅，不是她。她很深沉，她的本性仍然在她的行为中表现出来，因为她说的是传统的语言。 “语言除了惯例之外还有什么？”伊莎贝尔说。 “她很有品味，不会像我见过的一些人那样假装用原始的手势来表达自己。’

‘I’m afraid you’ve suffered much,’ she once found occasion to say to her friend in response to some allusion that had appeared to reach far.
“恐怕你受了很多苦，”她有一次找机会对她的朋友说，以回应一些似乎影响深远的暗示。

‘What makes you think that?’ Madame Merle asked with the amused smile of a person seated at a game of guesses. ‘I hope I haven’t too much the droop of the misunderstood.’
“你为什么这么想？”梅尔夫人带着玩味的微笑问道，就像坐在猜谜游戏中的人一样。 “我希望我没有因为被误解而感到太多的沮丧。”

‘No; but you sometimes say things that I think people who have always been happy wouldn’t have found out.’
'不;但你有时会说一些我认为一直快乐的人不会发现的事情。”

‘I haven’t always been happy,’ said Madame Merle, smiling still, but with a mock gravity, as if she were telling a child a secret. ‘Such a wonderful thing!’
“我并不总是快乐的，”梅尔夫人仍然微笑着说，但带着假装的严肃，仿佛她在告诉一个孩子一个秘密。 “真是一件美妙的事情！”

But Isabel rose to the irony. ‘A great many people give me the impression of never having for a moment felt anything.’
但伊莎贝尔却感到讽刺。 “很多人给我的印象是他们从未有过任何感觉。”

‘It’s very true; there are many more iron pots certainly than porcelain. But you may depend on it that every one bears some mark; even the hardest iron pots have a little bruise, a little hole somewhere. I flatter myself that I’m rather stout, but if I must tell you the truth I’ve been shockingly chipped and cracked. I do very well for service yet, because I’ve been cleverly mended; and I try to remain in the cupboard—the quiet, dusky cupboard where there’s an odour of stale spices—as much as I can. But when I’ve to come out and into a strong light—then, my dear, I’m a horror!’
‘这是非常正确的；铁锅肯定比瓷锅多得多。但你可以相信，每个人都带有一些印记；即使是最硬的铁锅也会有一点碰伤，某处有一个小洞。我自以为我很粗壮，但如果我必须告诉你真相的话，我已经被严重地碎裂了。我在服务方面做得很好，因为我得到了巧妙的修复；我尽量呆在柜子里——那个安静、昏暗、散发着陈旧香料气味的柜子。但当我不得不出来，面对强光时——那么，亲爱的，我就很恐怖了！”

I know not whether it was on this occasion or on some other that when the conversation had taken the turn I have just indicated she said to Isabel that she would some day a tale unfold. Isabel assured her she should delight to listen to one, and reminded her more than once of this engagement. Madame Merle, however, begged repeatedly for a respite, and at last frankly told her young companion that they must wait till they knew each other better. This would be sure to happen; a long friendship so visibly lay before them. Isabel assented, but at the same time enquired if she mightn’t be trusted—if she appeared capable of a betrayal of confidence.
我不知道是在这个场合还是在其他场合，当谈话开始时，我刚刚表示她对伊莎贝尔说，有一天她会讲述一个故事。伊莎贝尔向她保证，她会很高兴听一个人的演讲，并不止一次提醒她这次订婚。然而，梅尔夫人一再恳求喘口气，最后坦白地告诉她的年轻同伴，他们必须等到彼此更加了解为止。这肯定会发生；一段长久的友谊如此明显地展现在他们面前。伊莎贝尔同意了，但同时询问她是否不值得信任——她是否会表现出背叛信任的能力。

‘It’s not that I’m afraid of your repeating what I say,’ her fellow visitor answered; ‘I’m afraid, on the contrary, of your taking it too much to yourself. You’d judge me too harshly; you’re of the cruel age.’ She preferred for the present to talk to Isabel of Isabel, and exhibited the greatest interest in our heroine’s history, sentiments, opinions, prospects. She made her chatter and listened to her chatter infinite good nature. This flattered and quickened the girl, who was struck with all the distinguished people her friend had known and with her having lived, as Mrs. Touchett said, in the best company in Europe. Isabel thought the better of herself for enjoying the favour of a person who had so large a field of comparison; and it was perhaps partly to gratify the sense of profiting by comparison that she often appealed to these stores of reminiscence. Madame Merle had been a dweller in many lands and had social ties in a dozen different countries. ‘I don’t pretend to be educated,’ she would say, ‘but I think I know my Europe”; and she spoke one day of going to Sweden to stay with an old friend, and another of proceeding to Malta to follow up a new acquaintance. With England, where she had often dwelt, she was thoroughly familiar, and for Isabel’s benefit threw a great deal of light upon the customs of the country and the character of the people, who ‘after all,’ as she was fond of saying, were the most convenient in the world to live with.
“我并不是害怕你重复我说的话，”她的同伴回答道。 “相反，我担心你太自以为是了。你对我的评价太严厉了；她现在更喜欢和伊莎贝尔的伊莎贝尔交谈，并对我们女主人公的历史、情感、观点和前景表现出最大的兴趣。她让她喋喋不休，听她喋喋不休的本性无限美好。这让女孩感到受宠若惊，精神振奋，她对她的朋友所认识的所有杰出人物以及她所生活的一切感到震惊，正如图切特夫人所说，她生活在欧洲最好的公司里。伊莎贝尔为自己能得到一个有如此广泛的攀比范围的人的青睐而感到庆幸。她经常诉诸这些回忆，也许部分是为了满足通过比较而获利的感觉。梅尔夫人曾在许多国家居住过，并在十几个不同的国家有社会联系。 “我不会假装受过教育，”她会说，“但我想我了解我的欧洲”；有一天她说要去瑞典和一位老朋友住在一起，另一天又说要去马耳他拜访一位新朋友。她对她经常居住的英格兰非常熟悉，为了伊莎贝尔的利益，她对这个国家的习俗和人民的性格有了很大的了解，“毕竟”，正如她喜欢说的那样，是世界上最方便居住的地方。

‘You mustn’t think it strange her remaining here at such a time as this, when Mr. Touchett’s passing away,’ that gentleman’s wife remarked to her niece. ‘She is incapable of a mistake; she’s the most tactful woman I know. It’s a favour to me that she stays; she’s putting off a lot of visits at great houses,’ said Mrs. Touchett, who never forgot that when she herself was in England her social value sank two or three degrees in the scale. ‘She has her pick of places; she’s not in want of a shelter. But I’ve asked her to put in this time because I wish you to know her. I think it will be a good thing for you. Serena Merle hasn’t a fault.’
“在图切特先生去世的这个时候，她留在这里，你一定不会觉得奇怪，”这位绅士的妻子对她的侄女说道。 ‘她不会犯错误；她是我认识的最机智的女人。她留下来对我来说是一个恩惠； “她推迟了很多参观豪宅的活动，”图切特夫人说，她永远不会忘记，当她自己在英国时，她的社会价值下降了两到三度。 “她有自己选择的地方；她并不需要庇护所。但我要求她投入时间，因为我希望你了解她。我认为这对你来说是一件好事。瑟琳娜·梅尔没有错。”

‘If I didn’t already like her very much that description might alarm me,’ Isabel returned.
“如果我还不太喜欢她，那么这个描述可能会让我感到震惊，”伊莎贝尔回答道。

‘She’s never the least little bit ‘off.’ I’ve brought you out here and I wish to do the best for you. Your sister Lily told me she hoped I would give you plenty of opportunities. I give you one in putting you in relation with Madame Merle. She’s one of the most brilliant women in Europe.’
“她从来没有半点‘不正常’。我把你带到这里来，我希望为你做最好的事情。你姐姐莉莉告诉我她希望我能给你很多机会。我给你一个关于你和梅尔夫人的关系的信息。她是欧洲最杰出的女性之一。”

‘I like her better than I like your description of her,’ Isabel persisted in saying.
“我喜欢她胜过喜欢你对她的描述，”伊莎贝尔坚持说。

‘Do you flatter yourself that you’ll ever feel her open to criticism? I hope you’ll let me know when you do.’
“你是否自以为你会觉得她愿意接受批评？”我希望你这样做时能让我知道。

‘That will be cruel—to you,’ said Isabel.
“这对你来说太残酷了，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘You needn’t mind me. You won’t discover a fault in her.’
‘你不用管我。你不会发现她有什么缺点。

‘Perhaps not. But I dare say I shan’t miss it.’
'也许不是。但我敢说我不会错过它。

‘She knows absolutely everything on earth there is to know,’ said Mrs. Touchett.
“她绝对知道地球上应该知道的一切，”图切特夫人说。

Isabel after this observed to their companion that she hoped she knew Mrs. Touchett considered she hadn’t a speck on her perfection. On which ‘I’m obliged to you,’ Madame Merle replied, ‘but I’m afraid your aunt imagines, or at least alludes to, no aberrations that the clock-face doesn’t register.’
伊莎贝尔此后对他们的同伴说，她希望自己知道图切特夫人认为她没有一点完美。梅尔夫人回答说：“我很感激你，但恐怕你的姨妈想象或至少暗示，钟面没有记录到任何异常情况。”

‘So that you mean you’ve a wild side that’s unknown to her?’
“这么说你的意思是你有她不知道的狂野的一面？”

‘Ah no, I fear my darkest sides are my tamest. I mean that having no faults, for your aunt, means that one’s never late for dinner—that is for her dinner. I was not late, by the way, the other day, when you came back from London; the clock was just at eight when I came into the drawing-room; it was the rest of you that were before the time. It means that one answers a letter the day one gets it and that when one comes to stay with her one doesn’t bring too much luggage and is careful not to be taken ill. For Mrs. Touchett those things constitute virtue; it’s a blessing to be able to reduce it to its elements.’
“啊不，我担心我最黑暗的一面是我最驯服的。我的意思是，对你姨妈来说，没有缺点意味着吃晚饭永远不会迟到——那是为了她的晚饭。顺便说一句，有一天，当你从伦敦回来时，我并没有迟到。当我走进客厅时，时钟刚刚八点。是你们其他人在时间之前。意思是收到信当天就回信，来住的时候不要带太多行李，而且要小心不要生病。对于图切特夫人来说，这些东西构成了美德；能够将其简化到其要素是一件幸事。”

Madame Merle’s own conversation, it will be perceived, was enriched with bold, free touches of criticism, which, even when they had a restrictive effect, never struck Isabel as ill-natured. It couldn’t occur to the girl for instance that Mrs. Touchett’s accomplished guest was abusing her; and this for very good reasons. In the first place Isabel rose eagerly to the sense of her shades; in the second Madame Merle implied that there was a great deal more to say; and it was clear in the third that for a person to speak to one without ceremony of one’s near relations was an agreeable sign of that person’s intimacy with one’s self. These signs of deep communion multiplied as the days elapsed, and there was none of which Isabel was more sensible than of her companion’s preference for making Miss Archer herself a topic. Though she referred frequently to the incidents of her own career she never lingered upon them; she was as little of a gross egotist as she was of a flat gossip.
可以看出，梅尔夫人自己的谈话充满了大胆、自由的批评，即使这些批评具有限制性效果，伊莎贝尔也从未觉得她脾气不好。例如，女孩不可能想到塔奇特夫人那位多才多艺的客人正在虐待她。这是有充分理由的。首先，伊莎贝尔急切地意识到自己的肤色。在第二次中，梅尔夫人暗示还有很多话要说。第三个例子清楚地表明，一个人与一个人不加礼节地与近亲交谈是一个令人愉快的迹象，表明这个人与自己的亲密程度。随着时间的流逝，这些深入交流的迹象越来越多，而伊莎贝尔最明智的莫过于她的同伴偏爱让阿切尔小姐成为自己的话题。尽管她经常提到自己职业生涯中的事件，但她从不停留在这些事件上。她既不是一个粗俗的自负者，也不是一个平庸的八卦者。

‘I’m old and stale and faded,’ she said more than once; ‘I’m of no more interest than last week’s newspaper. You’re young and fresh and of to-day; you’ve the great thing—you’ve actuality. I once had it—we all have it for an hour. You, however, will have it for longer. Let us talk about you then; you can say nothing I shall not care to hear. It’s a sign that I’m growing old—that I like to talk with younger people. I think it’s a very pretty compensation. If we can’t have youth within us we can have it outside, and I really think we see it and feel it better that way. Of course we must be in sympathy with itthat I shall always be. I don’t know that I shall ever be ill-natured with old people—I hope not; there are certainly some old people I adore. But I shall never be anything but abject with the young; they touch me and appeal to me too much. I give you carte blanche then; you can even be impertinent if you like; I shall let it pass and horribly spoil you. I speak as if I were a hundred years old, you say? Well, I am, if you please; I was born before the French Revolution. Ah, my dear, je viens de loin; I belong to the old, old world. But it’s not of that I want to talk; I want to talk about the new. You must tell me more about America; you never tell me enough. Here I’ve been since I was brought here as a helpless child, and it’s ridiculous, or rather it’s scandalous, how little I know about that splendid, dreadful, funny country—surely the greatest and drollest of them all. There are a great many of us like that in these parts, and I must say I think we’re a wretched set of people. You should live in your own land; whatever it may be you have your natural place there. If we’re not good Americans we’re certainly poor Europeans; we’ve no natural place here. We’re mere parasites, crawling over the surface; we haven’t our feet in the soil. At least one can know it and not have illusions. A woman perhaps can get on; a woman, it seems to me, has no natural place anywhere; wherever she finds herself she has to remain on the surface and, more or less, to crawl. You protest, my dear? you’re horrified? you declare you’ll never crawl? It’s very true that I don’t see you crawling; you stand more upright than a good many poor creatures. Very good; on the whole, I don’t think you’ll crawl. But the men, the Americans; je vous demande un peu, what do they make of it over here? I don’t envy them trying to arrange themselves. Look at poor Ralph Touchett: what sort of a figure do you call that? Fortunately he has a consumption; I say fortunately, because it gives him something to do. His consumption’s his carriere; it’s a kind of position. You can say: ‘Oh Mr. Touchett, he takes care of his lungs, he knows a great deal about climates.’ But without that who would he be, what would he represent? ‘Mr. Ralph Touchett: an American who lives in Europe.’ That signifies absolutely nothing—it’s impossible anything should signify less. ‘He’s very cultivated,’ they say: ‘he has a very pretty collection of old snuff-boxes.’ The collection is all that’s wanted to make it pitiful. I’m tired of the sound of the word; I think it’s grotesque. With the poor old father it’s different; he has his identity, and it’s rather a massive one. He represents a great financial house, and that, in our day, is as good as anything else. For an American, at any rate, that will do very well. But I persist in thinking your cousin very lucky to have a chronic malady so long as he doesn’t die of it. It’s much better than the snuff-boxes. If he weren’t ill, you say, he’d do something?—he’d take his father’s place in the house. My poor child, I doubt it; I don’t think he’s at all fond of the house. However, you know him better than I, though I used to know him rather well, and he may have the benefit of the doubt. The worst case, I think, is a friend of mine, a countryman of ours, who lives in Italy (where he also was brought before he knew better), and who is one of the most delightful men I know. Some day you must know him. I’ll bring you together and then you’ll see what I mean. He’s Gilbert Osmond—he lives in Italy; that’s all one can say about him or make of him. He’s exceedingly clever, a man made to be distinguished; but, as I tell you, you exhaust the description when you say he’s Mr. Osmond who lives tout betement in Italy. No career, no name, no position, no fortune, no past, no future, no anything. Oh yes, he paints, if you please—paints in water-colours; like me, only better than I. His painting’s pretty bad; on the whole I’m rather glad of that. Fortunately he’s very indolent, so indolent that it amounts to a sort of position. He can say, ‘Oh, I do nothing; I’m too deadly lazy. You can do nothing to-day unless you get up at five o’clock in the morning.’ In that way he becomes a sort of exception; you feel he might do something if he’d only rise early. He never speaks of his painting—to people at large; he’s too clever for that. But he has a little girl—a dear little girl; he does speak of her. He’s devoted to her, and if it were a career to be an excellent father he’d be very distinguished. But I’m afraid that’s no better than the snuff-boxes; perhaps not even so good. Tell me what they do in America,’ pursued Madame Merle, who, it must be observed parenthetically, did not deliver herself all at once of these reflexions, which are presented in a cluster for the convenience of the reader. She talked of Florence, where Mr. Osmond lived and where Mrs. Touchett occupied a mediaeval palace; she talked of Rome, where she herself had a little pied-a-terre with some rather good old damask. She talked of places, of people and even, as the phrase is, of ‘subjects”; and from time to time she talked of their kind old host and of the prospect of his recovery. From the first she had thought this prospect small, and Isabel had been struck with the positive, discriminating, competent way in which she took the measure of his remainder of life. One evening she announced definitely that he wouldn’t live.
“我老了、陈旧、褪色了，”她不止一次地说。 “我对上周的报纸没什么兴趣。你年轻气盛，充满活力；你拥有伟大的东西——你拥有现实。我曾经拥有过它——我们都拥有它一个小时。然而，你会拥有它更长时间。那么我们来谈谈你吧；你可以说什么我不想听的。这是我变老的迹象——我喜欢和年轻人交谈。我认为这是一个非常可观的补偿。如果我们内心不能拥有青春，我们可以把它放在外面，我真的认为这样我们会更好地看到它并感受到它。当然，我们必须对此表示同情——我将永远如此。我不知道我会对老人发脾气——我希望不会；当然有一些我崇拜的老人。但对于年轻人来说，我永远都是卑鄙的；它们太触动我、太吸引我了。那么我就给你全权委托；如果你愿意，你甚至可以无礼；我会让它过去并可怕地宠坏你。你说我说话就像一百岁一样？好吧，我是，如果你愿意的话；我出生在法国大革命之前。啊，亲爱的，je viens de loin；我属于旧世界。但我想谈的并不是这个。我想谈谈新的。你必须告诉我更多关于美国的事；你永远告诉我不够。自从我还是一个无助的孩子被带到这里时，我就一直待在这里，这很荒谬，或者更确切地说，这是可耻的，我对这个辉煌、可怕、有趣的国家知之甚少——肯定是其中最伟大和最滑稽的国家。我们这些地区有很多这样的人，我必须说，我认为我们是一群可怜的人。你应该生活在你自己的土地上；不管是什么，你在那里都有你自然的位置。如果我们不是好美国人，那么我们肯定是贫穷的欧洲人；我们这里没有自然的地方。 我们只是寄生虫，在表面爬行；我们还没有脚踏实地。至少可以知道这一点，不抱任何幻想。女人也许可以相处；在我看来，女人在任何地方都没有天然的地位。无论她发现自己在哪里，她都必须留在水面上，或多或少地爬行。你抗议吗，亲爱的？你害怕吗？你宣称你永远不会爬行？确实，我没有看到你在爬行；你比很多可怜的人都站得更直。非常好;总的来说，我认为你不会爬行。但是男人，美国人； je vousdemande un peu，他们对这里有什么看法？我并不羡慕他们试图自我安排。看看可怜的拉尔夫·图切特：你称他为什么样的人物？幸运的是，他有消耗；我说幸运，因为这让他有事可做。他的消费就是他的载体；这是一种立场。你可以说：“哦，图切特先生，他照顾他的肺，他对气候了解很多。”但如果没有这些，他会是谁，他会代表什么？ '先生。拉尔夫·图切特：一个住在欧洲的美国人。”这绝对没有任何意义——任何事情都不可能有更少的意义。 “他很有教养，”他们说，“他收藏了很多漂亮的旧鼻烟盒。”这些收藏就是让它变得可怜。我厌倦了这个词的发音；我认为这很奇怪。对于可怜的老父亲来说，情况就不一样了。他有他的身份，而且是相当重要的身份。他代表着一家伟大的金融公司，在我们这个时代，这与其他任何事情一样好。无论如何，对于美国人来说，这会做得很好。但我坚持认为，你的表弟患有慢性病，只要他不死于这种疾病，他就很幸运了。比鼻烟盒好多了。 你说，如果他没病，他会做点什么？——他会取代他父亲在家里的位置。我可怜的孩子，我对此表示怀疑；我认为他一点也不喜欢这所房子。不过，你比我更了解他，尽管我以前对他很了解，而且他可能是无辜的。我认为最糟糕的情况是我的一个朋友，我们的一个同胞，他住在意大利（他在了解更多之前也被带到了意大利），他是我认识的最令人愉快的人之一。总有一天你一定会认识他。我会把你们聚集在一起，然后你们就会明白我的意思。他是吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德——住在意大利；这就是人们对他的评价或对他的评价。他非常聪明，是一个注定出类拔萃的人。但是，正如我告诉你的那样，当你说他是住在意大利的奥斯蒙德先生时，你就已经用尽了描述。没有事业，没有名字，没有地位，没有财富，没有过去，没有未来，什么都没有。哦，是的，他画画，如果你愿意的话——用水彩画；和我一样，只是比我好。他的画很糟糕；总的来说我对此很高兴。幸好他很懒，懒得相当于一种地位。他可以说：‘哦，我什么也没做；我太懒了。除非你早上五点起床，否则你今天什么也做不了。”这样，他就成为了一种例外。你觉得如果他早起的话他可能会做点什么。他从不向大众谈论他的画作；他太聪明了。但他有一个小女孩——一个可爱的小女孩；他确实谈到了她。他对她很忠诚，如果把成为一名优秀的父亲作为职业，他会非常出色。但恐怕这并不比鼻烟盒好多少。也许还没有那么好。 告诉我他们在美国做什么，”梅尔夫人继续说道，必须从括号中看出，她并没有一下子就把这些反思全部表达出来，这些反思是为了方便读者而集中呈现的。她谈到了佛罗伦萨，奥斯蒙德先生居住在那里，图切特夫人在那里居住着一座中世纪的宫殿。她谈到了罗马，她自己在那里有一个小住所，里面有一些相当漂亮的旧锦缎。她谈到了地方、人物，甚至正如俗话说的那样，谈到了“主题”。她时不时地谈到他们善良的老主人以及他康复的前景。从一开始她就认为这个前景很小，伊莎贝尔对她衡量他余生的积极、有辨别力、有能力的方式感到震惊。一天晚上，她明确宣布他不会活了。

‘Sir Matthew Hope told me so as plainly as was proper,’ she said; ‘standing there, near the fire, before dinner. He makes himself very agreeable, the great doctor. I don’t mean his saying that has anything to do with it. But he says such things with great tact. I had told him I felt ill at my ease, staying here at such a time; it seemed to me so indiscreet—it wasn’t as if I could nurse. ‘You must remain, you must remain,’ he answered; ‘your office will come later.’ Wasn’t that a very delicate way of saying both that poor Mr. Touchett would go and that I might be of some use as a consoler? In fact, however, I shall not be of the slightest use. Your aunt will console herself; she, and she alone, knows just how much consolation she’ll require. It would be a very delicate matter for another person to undertake to administer the dose. With your cousin it will be different; he’ll miss his father immensely. But I should never presume to condole with Mr. Ralph; we’re not on those terms.’ Madame Merle had alluded more than once to some undefined incongruity in her relations with Ralph Touchett; so Isabel took this occasion of asking her if they were not good friends.
“马修·霍普爵士以恰当的方式明确地告诉了我，”她说。 “晚饭前，站在火边。”他表现得非常和蔼可亲，是一位伟大的医生。我并不是说他的话与此有任何关系。但他说这些话的时候非常机智。我告诉过他，在这种时候待在这里，我感到很不自在。在我看来，这太不谨慎了——我好像无法哺乳。 “你必须留下来，你必须留下来，”他回答道。 “你的办公室稍后会来。”这不是一种非常微妙的方式，既表示可怜的图切特先生会去，又表示我可能会起到一些安慰作用吗？然而事实上，我没有丝毫用处。你姨妈会安慰自己的；她，也只有她一个人，知道自己需要多少安慰。对于另一个人来说，负责服用该剂量将是一件非常微妙的事情。对于你的表弟来说，情况会有所不同；他会非常想念他的父亲。但我决不应该冒昧地向拉尔夫先生表示哀悼。梅尔夫人不止一次提到她与拉尔夫·图切特的关系中存在一些不确定的不协调之处。所以伊莎贝尔趁这个机会问她他们是不是好朋友。

‘Perfectly, but he doesn’t like me.’
“很好，但他不喜欢我。”

‘What have you done to him?’
“你对他做了什么？”

‘Nothing whatever. But one has no need of a reason for that.’
‘没什么。但这不需要任何理由。”

‘For not liking you? I think one has need of a very good reason.’
‘因为不喜欢你？我认为人们需要一个很好的理由。

‘You’re very kind. Be sure you have one ready for the day you begin.’
'你好亲切。确保您在开始的那天准备好一份。

‘Begin to dislike you? I shall never begin.’
‘开始不喜欢你了？我永远不会开始。

‘I hope not; because if you do you’ll never end. That’s the way with your cousin; he doesn’t get over it. It’s an antipathy of nature—if I can call it that when it’s all on his side. I’ve nothing whatever against him and don’t bear him the least little grudge for not doing me justice. Justice is all I want. However, one feels that he’s a gentleman and would never say anything underhand about one. Cartes sur table,’ Madame Merle subjoined in a moment, ‘I’m not afraid of him.’
'我希望不是;因为如果你这样做，你将永远不会结束。你的表弟就是这样；他没有克服它。这是一种天性的反感——如果我可以这样称呼它，当一切都站在他一边时。我对他没有任何怨恨，也不会因为他不公正地对待我而怀恨在心。正义就是我想要的一切。不过，给人的感觉他是一位君子，绝不会说别人的坏话。餐桌上的菜，”梅尔夫人随即补充道，“我不怕他。”

‘I hope not indeed,’ said Isabel, who added something about his being the kindest creature living. She remembered, however, that on her first asking him about Madame Merle he had answered her in a manner which this lady might have thought injurious without being explicit. There was something between them, Isabel said to herself, but she said nothing more than this. If it were something of importance it should inspire respect; if it were not it was not worth her curiosity. With all her love of knowledge she had a natural shrinking from raising curtains and looking into unlighted corners. The love of knowledge coexisted in her mind with the finest capacity for ignorance.
“我希望不是，”伊莎贝尔说道，并补充说他是世上最善良的生物。然而，她记得，当她第一次向他询问梅尔夫人的情况时，他的回答方式可能会让这位女士认为是有害的，但并不明确。他们之间有某种东西，伊莎贝尔对自己说，但她只说了这一点。如果它很重要，它应该引起尊重；如果它很重要，它应该引起尊重。如果不是的话，就不值得她好奇。尽管她热爱知识，但她自然而然地不敢拉起窗帘，不敢看没有灯光的角落。在她的心中，对知识的热爱与对无知的最佳能力并存。

But Madame Merle sometimes said things that startled her, made her raise her clear eyebrows at the time and think of the words afterwards. ‘I’d give a great deal to be your age again,’ she broke out once with a bitterness which, though diluted in her customary amplitude of ease, was imperfectly disguised by it. ‘If I could only begin again—if I could have my life before me!’
但梅尔夫人有时会说出一些让她吃惊的话，让她当时扬起清晰的眉毛，事后回想起这句话。 “如果能回到你这个年纪，我愿意付出很大的代价。”她有一次带着苦涩的口气说道，这种苦涩虽然在她惯常的轻松中被冲淡了，但却完美地被它掩盖了。 “如果我能重新开始就好了——如果我能拥有自己的生活就好了！”

‘Your life’s before you yet,’ Isabel answered gently, for she was vaguely awe-struck.
“你的生活就在你面前，”伊莎贝尔温柔地回答，因为她隐约感到敬畏。

‘No; the best part’s gone, and gone for nothing.’
'不;最好的部分已经消失了，而且毫无意义。”

‘Surely not for nothing,’ said Isabel.
“当然不是无缘无故的，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘Why not—what have I got? Neither husband, nor child, nor fortune, nor position, nor the traces of a beauty that I never had.’
‘为什么不——我有什么？没有丈夫，没有孩子，没有财富，没有地位，也没有我从未拥有过的美丽痕迹。”

‘You have many friends, dear lady.’
“你有很多朋友，亲爱的女士。”

‘I’m not so sure!’ cried Madame Merle.
“我不太确定！”梅尔夫人喊道。

‘Ah, you’re wrong. You have memories, graces, talents-.’
‘啊，你错了。你有记忆、有优雅、有天赋——”

But Madame Merle interrupted her. ‘What have my talents brought me? Nothing but the need of using them still, to get through the hours, the years, to cheat myself with some pretence of movement, of unconsciousness. As for my graces and memories the less said about them the better. You’ll be my friend till you find a better use for your friendship.’
但梅尔夫人打断了她。 ‘我的天赋给我带来了什么？只不过需要继续使用它们，度过几个小时，几年，用一些假装运动和无意识来欺骗自己。至于我的美德和记忆，还是少说为好。你将成为我的朋友，直到你找到更好的友谊。

‘It will be for you to see that I don’t then,’ said Isabel.
“到时候你就会知道我不会，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘Yes; I would make an effort to keep you.’ And her companion looked at her gravely. ‘When I say I should like to be your age I mean with your qualities—frank, generous, sincere like you. In that case I should have made something better of my life.’
'是的;我会尽力留住你。”她的同伴严肃地看着她。 “当我说我希望成为你这个年纪的时候，我的意思是拥有你的品质——像你一样坦率、慷慨、真诚。在那种情况下，我应该让我的生活变得更好。

‘What should you have liked to do that you’ve not done?’
“有什么是你本来应该做却没有做的？”

Madame Merle took a sheet of music—she was seated at the piano and had abruptly wheeled about on the stool when she first spokeand mechanically turned the leaves. ‘I’m very ambitious!’ she at last replied.
梅尔夫人拿了一张乐谱——她坐在钢琴前，当她第一次说话时，她突然在凳子上转了一圈，机械地转动了琴页。 “我很有雄心！”她最后回答道。

‘And your ambitions have not been satisfied? They must have been great.’
‘你的野心还没有实现吗？他们一定很棒。

‘They were great. I should make myself ridiculous by talking of them.’
‘他们很棒。我应该通过谈论他们来让自己变得可笑。

Isabel wondered what they could have been—whether Madame Merle had aspired to wear a crown. ‘I don’t know what your idea of success may be, but you seem to me to have been successful. To me indeed you’re a vivid image of success.’
伊莎贝尔想知道它们可能是什么——梅尔夫人是否渴望戴上王冠。 “我不知道你对成功的看法是什么，但在我看来你已经成功了。对我来说，你确实是成功的生动形象。

Madame Merle tossed away the music with a smile. ‘What’s your idea of success?’
梅尔夫人微笑着把音乐扔掉了。 “你对成功的看法是什么？”

‘You evidently think it must be a very tame one. It’s to see some dream of one’s youth come true.’
“你显然认为它一定是一只非常温顺的狗。这是为了看到一个人年轻时的一些梦想成真。”

‘Ah,’ Madame Merle exclaimed, ‘that I’ve never seen! But my dreams were so great—so preposterous. Heaven forgive me, I’m dreaming now!’ And she turned back to the piano and began grandly to play. On the morrow she said to Isabel that her definition of success had been very pretty, yet frightfully sad. Measured in that way, who had succeeded? The dreams of one’s youth, why they were enchanting, they were divine! Who had ever seen such things come to pass?
“啊，”梅尔夫人惊呼道，“我从来没有见过！但我的梦想是如此伟大——如此荒谬。老天爷原谅我吧，我现在是在做梦！”说着她又回到钢琴前，开始华丽地弹奏起来。第二天，她对伊莎贝尔说，她对成功的定义非常美好，但又非常悲伤。以此衡量，谁成功了呢？少年时的梦想，为何如此迷人，为何如此神圣！谁见过这样的事情发生？

‘I myself—a few of them,’ Isabel ventured to answer.
“我自己——他们中的一些人，”伊莎贝尔大胆地回答。

‘Already? They must have been dreams of yesterday.’
'已经？它们一定是昨天的梦。”

‘I began to dream very young,’ Isabel smiled.
“我很小的时候就开始做梦了，”伊莎贝尔微笑着说。

‘Ah, if you mean the aspirations of your childhood—that of having a pink sash and a doll that could close her eyes.’
“啊，如果你指的是你童年的愿望——拥有一条粉红色的腰带和一个可以闭上眼睛的洋娃娃。”

‘No, I don’t mean that.’
“不，我不是那个意思。”

‘Or a young man with a fine moustache going down on his knees to you.’
“或者是一个留着漂亮小胡子的年轻人向你跪下。”

‘No, nor that either,’ Isabel declared with still more emphasis.
“不，也不是，”伊莎贝尔更加强调地说。

Madame Merle appeared to note this eagerness. ‘I suspect that’s what you do mean. We’ve all had the young man with the moustache. He’s the inevitable young man; he doesn’t count.’
梅尔夫人似乎注意到了这种渴望。 “我怀疑这就是你的意思。我们都遇到过那个留着小胡子的年轻人。他是不可避免的年轻人；他不算数。

Isabel was silent a little but then spoke with extreme and characteristic inconsequence. ‘Why shouldn’t he count? There are young men and young men.’
伊莎贝尔沉默了一会儿，但随后就以一种极端而典型的语无伦次的语气说道。 ‘为什么他不应该数数呢？有年轻人和年轻人。

‘And yours was a paragon—is that what you mean?’ asked her friend with a laugh. ‘If you’ve had the identical young man you dreamed of, then that was success, and I congratulate you with all my heart. Only in that case why didn’t you fly with him to his castle in the Apennines?’
“而你的则是一个典范——这就是你的意思吗？”她的朋友笑着问。 “如果你拥有了你梦想中的那个年轻人，那就成功了，我衷心祝贺你。只是既然如此，你为什么不和他一起飞到他在亚平宁山脉的城堡呢？

‘He has no castle in the Apennines.’
“他在亚平宁山脉没有城堡。”

‘What has he? An ugly brick house in Fortieth Street? Don’t tell me that; I refuse to recognize that as an ideal.’
‘他有什么？第四十街的一栋丑陋的砖房？别告诉我这个；我拒绝承认这是一个理想。

‘I don’t care anything about his house,’ said Isabel.
“我对他的房子一点也不关心，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘That’s very crude of you. When you’ve lived as long as I you’ll see that every human being has his shell and that you must take the shell into account. By the shell I mean the whole envelope of circumstances. There’s no such thing as an isolated man or woman; we’re each of us made up of some cluster of appurtenances. What shall we call our ‘self’? Where does it begin? where does it end? It overflows into everything that belongs to us—and then it flows back again. I know a large part of myself is in the clothes I choose to wear. I’ve a great respect for things! One’s self—for other peopleis one’s expression of one’s self; and one’s house, one’s furniture, one’s garments, the books one reads, the company one keeps—these things are all expressive.’
‘你这样太粗鲁了。当你活得和我一样长时，你会发现每个人都有他的外壳，你必须考虑到外壳。我所说的外壳是指环境的整个范围。世界上不存在孤立的男人或女人。我们每个人都是由一些附属物组成的。我们该如何称呼我们的‘自我’呢？从哪里开始？它在哪里结束？它溢出到属于我们的一切——然后又流回来。我知道我自己的很大一部分都体现在我选择穿的衣服上。我对事物非常尊重！一个人的自我——对于别人来说是一个人自我的表达；一个人的房子、一个人的家具、一个人的衣服、一个人读的书、一个人的同伴——这些东西都是具有表现力的。

This was very metaphysical; not more so, however, than several observations Madame Merle had already made. Isabel was fond of metaphysics, but was unable to accompany her friend into this bold analysis of the human personality. ‘I don’t agree with you. I think just the other way. I don’t know whether I succeed in expressing myself, but I know that nothing else expresses me. Nothing that belongs to me is any measure of me; everything’s on the contrary a limit, a barrier, and a perfectly arbitrary one. Certainly the clothes which, as you say, I choose to wear, don’t express me; and heaven forbid they should!’
这是非常形而上的。然而，这并不比梅尔夫人已经做出的一些观察更重要。伊莎贝尔喜欢形而上学，但无法陪伴她的朋友进行这种对人性的大胆分析。 ‘我不同意你的观点。我认为恰恰相反。我不知道我是否成功地表达了自己，但我知道没有其他东西可以表达我。任何属于我的东西都无法衡量我；相反，一切都是限制、障碍，而且是完全任意的。当然，正如你所说，我选择穿的衣服并不能表达我；但愿他们不会这么做！

‘You dress very well,’ Madame Merle lightly interposed.
“你穿得很好，”梅尔夫人轻轻插话。

‘Possibly; but I don’t care to be judged by that. My clothes may express the dressmaker, but they don’t express me. To begin with it’s not my own choice that I wear them; they’re imposed upon me by society.’
'可能；但我不想因此而受到评判。我的衣服可能代表裁缝师，但它们不能代表我。首先，我穿它们并不是我自己的选择；而是我自己的选择。它们是社会强加给我的。”

‘Should you prefer to go without them?’ Madame Merle enquired in a tone which virtually terminated the discussion.
“你应该不带它们去吗？”梅尔夫人用几乎结束了讨论的语气问道。

I am bound to confess, though it may cast some discredit on the sketch I have given of the youthful loyalty practiced by our heroine toward this accomplished woman, that Isabel had said nothing whatever to her about Lord Warburton and had been equally reticent on the subject of Caspar Goodwood. She had not, however, concealed the fact that she had had opportunities of marrying and had even let her friend know of how advantageous a kind they had been. Lord Warburton had left Lockleigh and was gone to Scotland, taking his sisters with him; and though he had written to Ralph more than once to ask about Mr. Touchett’s health the girl was not liable to the embarrassment of such enquiries as, had he still been in the neighbourhood, he would probably have felt bound to make in person. He had excellent ways, but she felt sure that if he had come to Gardencourt he would have seen Madame Merle, and that if he had seen her he would have liked her and betrayed to her that he was in love with her young friend. It so happened that during this lady’s previous visits to Gardencourteach of them much shorter than the present—he had either not been at Lockleigh or had not called at Mr. Touchett’s. Therefore, though she knew him by name as the great man of that country, she had no cause to suspect him as a suitor of Mrs. Touchett’s freshly-imported niece.
我必须承认，尽管这可能会给我所描述的我们的女主人公对这位有成就的女人所表现出的年轻忠诚的描述带来一些怀疑，但伊莎贝尔没有对她说过任何关于沃伯顿勋爵的事情，并且在这个问题上同样保持沉默。卡斯帕·古德伍德。然而，她并没有隐瞒自己有过结婚机会的事实，甚至让她的朋友知道他们的婚姻是多么有利。沃伯顿勋爵离开了洛克利，带着他的姐妹们去了苏格兰。尽管他不止一次写信给拉尔夫询问图切特先生的健康状况，但女孩不会因为这样的询问而感到尴尬，因为如果他还在附近，他可能会觉得有必要亲自去问。他有很好的方式，但她确信，如果他来到花园考特，他就会看到梅尔夫人，如果他看到她，他就会喜欢她，并向她透露他爱上了她的年轻朋友。碰巧的是，这位女士以前来花园庭院的时间比现在短得多——他要么没有去过洛克利，要么没有去过图奇特先生家。因此，尽管她知道他是这个国家的伟人，但她没有理由怀疑他是图切特夫人新引进的侄女的追求者。

‘You’ve plenty of time,’ she had said to Isabel in return for the mutilated confidences which our young woman made her and which didn’t pretend to be perfect, though we have seen that at moments the girl had compunctions at having said so much. ‘I’m glad you’ve done nothing yet—that you have it still to do. It’s a very good thing for a girl to have refused a few good offers—so long of course as they are not the best she’s likely to have. Pardon me if my tone seems horribly corrupt; one must take the worldly view sometimes. Only don’t keep on refusing for the sake of refusing. It’s a pleasant exercise of power; but accepting’s after all an exercise of power as well. There’s always the danger of refusing once too often. It was not the one I fell into—I didn’t refuse often enough. You’re an exquisite creature, and I should like to see you married to a prime minister. But speaking strictly, you know, you’re not what is technically called a parti. You’re extremely good-looking and extremely clever; in yourself you’re quite exceptional. You appear to have the vaguest ideas about your earthly possessions; but from what I can make out you’re not embarrassed with an income. I wish you had a little money.’
“你有足够的时间，”她对伊莎贝尔说，以换取我们年轻女人对她的残缺不全的信任，而且她并没有假装完美，尽管我们看到女孩有时会因为说了这句话而感到内疚。非常。 “我很高兴你还什么都没做——你还有事情要做。”对于一个女孩来说，拒绝一些好的工作机会是一件非常好的事情——当然，前提是这些工作机会不是她可能得到的最好的。如果我的语气看起来非常腐败，请原谅我；有时必须采取世俗的观点。只是不要为了拒绝而拒绝。这是一种令人愉快的权力运用；但接受毕竟也是一种权力的行使。过于频繁地拒绝总是存在危险的。这不是我陷入的困境——我拒绝的次数还不够多。你是一个精致的人，我希望看到你嫁给一位首相。但严格来说，你知道，你并不是技术上所谓的政党。你长得非常漂亮，而且非常聪明；你本身就很特别。你似乎对自己在尘世的财产有最模糊的想法；但据我所知，你并不因为收入而感到尴尬。我希望你有一点钱。

‘I wish I had!’ said Isabel, simply, apparently forgetting for the moment that her poverty had been a venial fault for two gallant gentlemen.
“我希望我有！”伊莎贝尔简单地说，显然暂时忘记了她的贫穷对于两位英勇的绅士来说只是一个小错误。

In spite of Sir Matthew Hope’s benevolent recommendation Madame Merle did not remain to the end, as the issue of poor Mr. Touchett’s malady had now come frankly to be designated. She was under pledges to other people which had at last to be redeemed, and she left Gardencourt with the understanding that she should in any event see Mrs. Touchett there again, or else in town, before quitting England. Her parting with Isabel was even more like the beginning of a friendship than their meeting had been. ‘I’m going to six places in succession, but I shall see no one I like so well as you. They’ll all be old friends, however; one doesn’t make new friends at my age. I’ve made a great exception for you. You must remember that and must think as well of me as possible. You must reward me by believing in me.’
尽管马修·霍普爵士提出了善意的建议，梅尔夫人还是没有坚持到最后，因为可怜的图切特先生的病问题现在已经明确了。她向其他人做出了最终必须得到救赎的承诺，她离开花园考特时明白，无论如何，在离开英国之前，她应该在那里再次见到图切特夫人，或者在城里。与他们的相遇相比，她与伊莎贝尔的分别更像是友谊的开始。 ‘我要连续去六个地方，但我不会见到像你这样喜欢的人。不过，他们都会成为老朋友了。在我这个年纪，不会结交新朋友。我为你破例了。你必须记住这一点，并且必须尽可能地为我着想。你必须通过相信我来奖励我。

By way of answer Isabel kissed her, and, though some women kiss with facility, there are kisses and kisses, and this embrace was satisfactory to Madame Merle. Our young lady, after this, was much alone; she saw her aunt and cousin only at meals, and discovered that of the hours during which Mrs. Touchett was invisible only a minor portion was now devoted to nursing her husband. She spent the rest in her own apartments, to which access was not allowed even to her niece, apparently occupied there with mysterious and inscrutable exercises. At table she was grave and silent; but her solemnity was not an attitude—Isabel could see it was a conviction. She wondered if her aunt repented of having taken her own way so much; but there was no visible evidence of this—no tears, no sighs, no exaggeration of a zeal always to its own sense adequate. Mrs. Touchett seemed simply to feel the need of thinking things over and summing them up; she had a little moral account-book—with columns unerringly ruled and a sharp steel clasp—which she kept with exemplary neatness. Uttered reflection had with her ever, at any rate, a practical ring. ‘If I had foreseen this I’d not have proposed your coming abroad now,’ she said to Isabel after Madame Merle had left the house. ‘I’d have waited and sent for you next year.’
作为回答，伊莎贝尔吻了她，虽然有些女人接吻很熟练，但还是有吻有吻，这个拥抱让梅尔夫人很满意。自此之后，我们的年轻女士变得非常孤独。她只在吃饭的时候见到她的姨妈和表弟，并发现在图切特夫人看不见的时间里，现在只有一小部分时间用来护理她的丈夫。剩下的时间她都在自己的公寓里度过，甚至她的侄女也不允许进入那里，显然她在那里进行了神秘莫测的练习。餐桌上她表情严肃、沉默寡言。但她的严肃并不是一种态度——伊莎贝尔看得出来这是一种信念。她想知道姨妈是否后悔自己如此偏行己路？但没有明显的证据表明这一点——没有眼泪，没有叹息，也没有夸大其本身的热情。塔切特夫人似乎只是觉得有必要仔细思考并总结一下。她有一本道德小册子——上面的柱子都被精确地划过，还有一个锋利的钢扣——她把它保存得井井有条。无论如何，她的倾诉始终具有实际意义。 “如果我预见到这一点，我现在就不会提议你出国了，”梅尔夫人离开家后，她对伊莎贝尔说道。 “我会等到明年再派人来接你。”

‘So that perhaps I should never have known my uncle? It’s a great happiness to me to have come now.’
“这样说来，也许我永远都不应该认识我的叔叔？”现在能来到这里对我来说是莫大的幸福。”

‘That’s very well. But it was not that you might know your uncle that I brought you to Europe.’ A perfectly veracious speech; but, as Isabel thought, not as perfectly timed. She had leisure to think of this and other matters. She took a solitary walk every day and spent vague hours in turning over books in the library. Among the subjects that engaged her attention were the adventures of her friend Miss Stackpole, with whom she was in regular correspondence. Isabel liked her friend’s private epistolary style better than her public; that is she felt her public letters would have been excellent if they had not been printed. Henrietta’s career, however, was not so successful, as might have been wished even in the interest of her private felicity; that view of the inner life of Great Britain which she was so eager to take appeared to dance before her like an ignis fatuus. The invitation from Lady Pensil, for mysterious reasons, had never arrived; and poor Mr. Bantling himself, with all his friendly ingenuity, had been unable to explain so grave a dereliction on the part of a missive that had obviously been sent. He had evidently taken Henrietta’s affairs much to heart, and believed that he owed her a set-off to this illusory visit to Bedfordshire. ‘He says he should think I would go to the Continent,’ Henrietta wrote; and as he thinks of going there himself I suppose his advice is sincere. He wants to know why I don’t take a view of French life; and it’s a fact that I want very much to see the new Republic. Mr. Bantling doesn’t care much about the Republic, but he thinks of going over to Paris anyway. I must say he’s quite as attentive as I could wish, and at least I shall have seen one polite Englishman. I keep telling Mr. Bantling that he ought to have been an American, and you should see how that pleases him. Whenever I say so he always breaks out with the same exclamation—‘Ah, but really, come now!’’ A few days later she wrote that she had decided to go to Paris at the end of the week and that Mr. Bantling had promised to see her off perhaps even would go as far as Dover with her. She would wait in Paris till Isabel should arrive, Henrietta added; speaking quite as if Isabel were to start on her continental journey alone and making no allusion to Mrs. Touchett. Bearing in mind his interest in their late companion, our heroine communicated several passages from this correspondence to Ralph, who followed with an emotion akin to suspense the career of the representative of the Interviewer.
‘那很好。但我带你来欧洲并不是为了让你认识你的叔叔。” 非常诚实的演讲；但正如伊莎贝尔所想，时机并不完美。她有闲暇去想这件事和其他事情。她每天独自散步，并花一些时间在图书馆翻阅书籍。吸引她注意力的主题之一是她的朋友斯塔克波尔小姐的冒险经历，她经常与她通信。伊莎贝尔比她的公开书信风格更喜欢她朋友的私人书信风格。也就是说，她觉得如果她的公开信没有被印刷的话，它们会很出色。然而，亨丽埃塔的事业并不如人们所希望的那样成功，即使是为了她个人的幸福。她如此渴望了解的英国内心生活的景象，就像一团火在她面前跳舞。出于某种神秘的原因，彭西尔夫人的邀请函始终没有送达。可怜的班特林先生本人，尽管他很友善，也很聪明，却无法解释一封显然已发出的信函如此严重的失职行为。显然，他把亨丽埃塔的事情放在心上，并相信他因这次虚幻的贝德福德郡之行而欠她一笔补偿。 “他说他应该认为我会去欧洲大陆，”亨利埃塔写道；当他想到自己去那里时，我想他的建议是真诚的。他想知道为什么我不看好法国人的生活；事实上，我非常想看到新的共和国。班特林先生不太关心共和国，但他还是想去巴黎。我必须说他非常细心，正如我所希望的那样，至少我会看到一位有礼貌的英国人。我不断地告诉先生 讽刺他应该是美国人，你应该看看这让他多么高兴。每当我这样说时，他总是会突然发出同样的感叹——“啊，但真的，现在就来吧！”几天后，她写道，她决定在本周末去巴黎，而班特林先生已经答应送她，甚至可能会和她一起去多佛。亨利埃塔补充说，她会在巴黎等待伊莎贝尔到达。说话的语气就好像伊莎贝尔要独自开始她的大陆之旅一样，并没有提及图切特夫人。考虑到他对已故同伴的兴趣，我们的女主人公将这封信中的几段话传达给了拉尔夫，拉尔夫怀着一种类似于悬念采访者代表的职业生涯的情绪。

‘It seems to me she’s doing very well,’ he said, ‘going over to Paris with an ex-Lancer! If she wants something to write about she has only to describe that episode.’
“在我看来，她做得很好，”他说，“和一位前枪骑兵一起去巴黎！”如果她想写点什么，她只需描述那一集。

‘It’s not conventional, certainly,’ Isabel answered; ‘but if you mean that—as far as Henrietta is concerned—it’s not perfectly innocent, you’re very much mistaken. You’ll never understand Henrietta.’
“这当然不符合传统，”伊莎贝尔回答道。 “但如果你的意思是——就亨丽埃塔而言——这并不是完全无辜的，那你就大错特错了。你永远不会理解亨丽埃塔。

‘Pardon me, I understand her perfectly. I didn’t at all at first, but now I’ve the point of view. I’m afraid, however, that Bantling hasn’t; he may have some surprises. Oh, I understand Henrietta as well as if I had made her!’
“对不起，我完全理解她。起初我根本不这么认为，但现在我有了观点。然而，恐怕班特林还没有；他可能会有一些惊喜。哦，我了解亨利埃塔，就像我创造了她一样！

Isabel was by no means sure of this, but she abstained from expressing further doubt, for she was disposed in these days to extend a great charity to her cousin. One afternoon less than a week after Madame Merle’s departure she was seated in the library with a volume to which her attention was not fastened. She had placed herself in a deep window-bench, from which she looked out into the dull, damp park; and as the library stood at right angles to the entrance-front of the house she could see the doctor’s brougham, which had been waiting for the last two hours before the door. She was struck with his remaining so long, but at last she saw him appear in the portico, stand a moment slowly drawing on his gloves and looking at the knees of his horse, and then get into the vehicle and roll away. Isabel kept her place for half an hour; there was a great stillness in the house. It was so great that when she at last heard a soft, slow step on the deep carpet of the room she was almost startled by the sound. She turned quickly away from the window and saw Ralph Touchett standing there with his hands still in his pockets, but with a face absolutely void of its usual latent smile. She got up and her movement and glance were a question.
伊莎贝尔对此并不确定，但她没有表示进一步的怀疑，因为这些天她准备向她的表弟提供巨大的慈善事业。梅尔夫人离开后不到一周的一个下午，她坐在图书馆里，手里拿着一本她的注意力没有集中的书。她坐在一张很深的窗边长凳上，从那里可以看到外面阴暗潮湿的公园。由于图书馆与房子的入口处成直角，她可以看到医生的马车，它在门前已经等了两个小时了。她对他停留这么久感到惊讶，但最后她看到他出现在门廊里，站了一会儿，慢慢地戴上手套，看着他的马的膝盖，然后钻进车里，滚走了。伊莎贝尔在原地呆了半个小时。屋子里一片寂静。这真是太棒了，以至于当她终于听到房间里深深的地毯上有轻柔、缓慢的脚步声时，她几乎被这个声音吓了一跳。她迅速转身离开窗户，看到拉尔夫·图切特站在那里，双手仍插在口袋里，但脸上完全没有平常的潜在微笑。她站了起来，她的动作和眼神都是一个疑问。

‘It’s all over,’ said Ralph.
“一切都结束了，”拉尔夫说。

‘Do you mean that my uncle-?’ And Isabel stopped.
“你的意思是我叔叔——？”伊莎贝尔停了下来。

‘My dear father died an hour ago.’
“我亲爱的父亲一小时前去世了。”

‘Ah, my poor Ralph!’ she gently wailed, putting out her two hands to him.
“啊，我可怜的拉尔夫！”她轻轻地哭泣，向他伸出两只手。

Chapter 20
第20章

Some fortnight after this Madame Merle drove up in a hansom cab to the house in Winchester Square. As she descended from her vehicle she observed, suspended between the dining-room windows, a large, neat, wooden tablet, on whose fresh black ground were inscribed in white paint the words—‘This noble freehold mansion to be sold”; with the name of the agent to whom application should be made. ‘They certainly lose no time,’ said the visitor as, after sounding the big brass knocker, she waited to be admitted; ‘it’s a practical country!’ And within the house, as she ascended to the drawing-room, she perceived numerous signs of abdication; pictures removed from the walls and placed upon sofas, windows undraped and floors laid bare. Mrs. Touchett presently received her and intimated in a few words that condolences might be taken for granted.
大约两周后，梅尔夫人乘坐一辆双轮马车来到温彻斯特广场的房子。当她从车上下来时，她注意到餐厅窗户之间悬挂着一块大而整洁的木板，在其新鲜的黑色背景上用白色油漆刻着这样的字：“这座高贵的永久业权豪宅待售”；以及应向其提出申请的代理人的姓名。 “他们当然不失时机，”来访者一边说，一边敲响了巨大的黄铜门环，等待入场。 “这是一个务实的国家！”在房子里，当她登上客厅时，她看到了许多退位的迹象。墙上的画被拆下来放在沙发上，窗户没有遮盖，地板也裸露着。塔切特夫人很快就接待了她，并用几句话表示哀悼可能是理所当然的。

‘I know what you’re going to say—he was a very good man. But I know it better than any one, because I gave him more chance to show it. In that I think I was a good wife.’ Mrs. Touchett added that at the end her husband apparently recognized this fact. ‘He has treated me most liberally,’ she said; ‘I won’t say more liberally than I expected, because I didn’t expect. You know that as a general thing I don’t expect. But he chose, I presume, to recognize the fact that though I lived much abroad and mingled—you may say freely—in foreign life, I never exhibited the smallest preference for any one else.’
“我知道你要说什么——他是一个非常好的人。但我比任何人都清楚这一点，因为我给了他更多展示这一点的机会。在这一点上，我认为我是一个好妻子。”图切特夫人补充说，最后她的丈夫显然认识到了这一事实。 “他对我非常慷慨，”她说。 ‘我不会说得比我预想的更自由，因为我没想到。你知道，一般来说，这是我没想到的。但我想，他选择承认这样一个事实：尽管我在国外生活了很多年，并且融入了——你可以随意说——外国生活，但我从未对任何人表现出哪怕一丁点的偏好。

‘For any one but yourself,’ Madame Merle mentally observed; but the reflexion was perfectly inaudible.
“为了任何人，除了你自己。”梅尔夫人在心里说道。但反射声完全听不见。

‘I never sacrificed my husband to another,’ Mrs. Touchett continued with her stout curtness.
“我从来没有为了别人而牺牲过我的丈夫，”图切特夫人继续说道。

‘Oh no,’ thought Madame Merle; ‘you never did anything for another!’
“噢，不，”梅尔夫人想。 “你从来没有为别人做过任何事！”

There was a certain cynicism in these mute comments which demands an explanation; the more so as they are not in accord either with the view—somewhat superficial perhaps—that we have hitherto enjoyed of Madame Merle’s character or with the literal facts of Mrs. Touchett’s history; the more so, too, as Madame Merle had a well-founded conviction that her friend’s last remark was not in the least to be construed as a side-thrust at herself. The truth is that the moment she had crossed the threshold she received an impression that Mr. Touchett’s death had had subtle consequences and that these consequences had been profitable to a little circle of persons among whom she was not numbered. Of course it was an event which would naturally have consequences; her imagination had more than once rested upon this fact during her stay at Gardencourt. But it had been one thing to foresee such a matter mentally and another to stand among its massive records. The idea of a distribution of property—she would almost have said of spoils—just now pressed upon her senses and irritated her with a sense of exclusion. I am far from wishing to picture her as one of the hungry mouths or envious hearts of the general herd, but we have already learned of her having desires that had never been satisfied. If she had been questioned, she would of course have admitted—with a fine proud smile—that she had not the faintest claim to a share in Mr. Touchett’s relics. ‘There was never anything in the world between us,’ she would have said. ‘There was never that, poor man!’—with a fillip of her thumb and her third finger. I hasten to add, moreover, that if she couldn’t at the present moment keep from quite perversely yearning she was careful not to betray herself. She had after all as much sympathy for Mrs. Touchett’s gain as for her losses.
这些无声的评论中有一定的愤世嫉俗，需要做出解释。更重要的是，它们既不符合我们迄今为止所欣赏的梅尔夫人的性格的观点（也许有些肤浅），也不符合图切特夫人历史的字面事实；更重要的是，梅尔夫人有充分的理由相信，她朋友的最后一句话绝对不能被理解为对她自己的旁敲侧击。事实是，当她跨过门槛的那一刻，她就得到了这样的印象：图切特先生的死产生了微妙的后果，而这些后果对一小部分人来说是有利可图的，而她不在其中。当然，这是一个自然会产生后果的事件；在花园庭院逗留期间，她的想象力不止一次基于这一事实。但在精神上预见到这样的事情是一回事，而站在其庞大的记录中又是另一回事。分配财产的想法——她几乎会说是战利品——此刻突然压在她的感官上，让她感到一种被排斥的感觉。我绝不希望将她描绘成大众中饥饿的嘴巴或嫉妒的心之一，但我们已经了解到她有从未得到满足的欲望。如果有人问她，她当然会带着骄傲的微笑承认，她没有丝毫权利分享图切特先生的遗物。 “我们之间从来没有任何关系，”她会说。 “从来没有这样的事，可怜的人！”——她用拇指和无名指轻轻一弹。此外，我还得赶紧补充一点，如果她此刻无法克制住这种反常的渴望，那么她就得小心，不要背叛自己。毕竟，她对夫人也有同样的同情。 塔奇特的收益与损失。

‘He has left me this house,’ the newly-made widow said; ‘but of course I shall not live in it; I’ve a much better one in Florence. The will was opened only three days since, but I’ve already offered the house for sale. I’ve also a share in the bank; but I don’t yet understand if I’m obliged to leave it there. If not I shall certainly take it out. Ralph, of course, has Gardencourt; but I’m not sure that he’ll have means to keep up the place. He’s naturally left very well off, but his father has given away an immense deal of money; there are bequests to a string of third cousins in Vermont. Ralph, however, is very fond of Gardencourt and would be quite capable of living there—in summer—with a maid-of-all-work and a gardener’s boy. There’s one remarkable clause in my husband’s will,’ Mrs. Touchett added. ‘He has left my niece a fortune.’
“他把这座房子留给了我，”新晋寡妇说道。 “但我当然不会住在里面；我在佛罗伦萨有一个更好的。遗嘱刚打开三天，但我已经将房子出售了。我也持有这家银行的股份；但我还不明白我是否有义务把它留在那里。如果没有的话我一定会把它拿出来。当然，拉尔夫拥有花园庭院；但我不确定他是否有办法维持这个位置。他自然很富裕，但他的父亲却捐出了一大笔钱。佛蒙特州的一系列第三代堂兄弟姐妹都有遗产。然而，拉尔夫非常喜欢花园庭院，并且非常有能力在夏天与一名女佣和一名园丁男孩一起生活在那里。 “我丈夫的遗嘱中有一项值得注意的条款，”图切特夫人补充道。 “他给我侄女留下了一大笔财产。”

‘A fortune!’ Madame Merle softly repeated.
“一笔财富！”梅尔夫人轻声重复道。

‘Isabel steps into something like seventy thousand pounds.’
“伊莎贝尔投入了大约七万英镑。”

Madame Merle’s hands were clasped in her lap; at this she raised them, still clasped, and held them a moment against her bosom while her eyes, a little dilated, fixed themselves on those of her friend. ‘Ah,’ she cried, ‘the clever creature!’
梅尔夫人的双手紧握在腿上。这时，她把它们举了起来，仍然紧握着，把它们放在怀里一会儿，她的眼睛有点放大，盯着她朋友的眼睛。 “啊，”她喊道，“这个聪明的生物！”

Mrs. Touchett gave her a quick look. ‘What do you mean by that?’
图切特夫人快速地看了她一眼。 '你是什么意思？'

For an instant Madame Merle’s colour rose and she dropped her eyes. ‘It certainly is clever to achieve such results—without an effort!’
梅尔夫人的脸色一下子涨了起来，垂下了眼睛。 “不费吹灰之力就能取得这样的成果，这确实是明智之举！”

‘There assuredly was no effort. Don’t call it an achievement.’
‘肯定没有付出任何努力。不要称其为成就。

Madame Merle was seldom guilty of the awkwardness of retracting what she had said; her wisdom was shown rather in maintaining it and placing it in a favourable light. ‘My dear friend, Isabel would certainly not have had seventy thousand pounds left her if she had not been the most charming girl in the world. Her charm includes great cleverness.’
梅尔夫人很少会因为收回自己说过的话而感到尴尬。她的智慧表现在维护它并以有利的眼光看待它。 “我亲爱的朋友，如果伊莎贝尔不是世界上最迷人的女孩，她肯定不会剩下七万英镑。她的魅力包括极大的聪明才智。

‘She never dreamed, I’m sure, of my husband’s doing anything for her; and I never dreamed of it either, for he never spoke to me of his intention,’ Mrs. Touchett said. ‘She had no claim upon him whatever; it was no great recommendation to him that she was my niece. Whatever she achieved she achieved unconsciously.’
“我敢肯定，她从来没有梦想过我的丈夫会为她做任何事情； “我也从来没有想到过，因为他从来没有对我说过他的意图。”图切特夫人说。 “她对他没有任何要求；她是我的侄女，这对他来说并不是什么好建议。无论她取得什么成就，她都是在不知不觉中取得的。

‘Ah,’ rejoined Madame Merle, ‘those are the greatest strokes!’
“啊，”梅尔夫人回答道，“这是最伟大的击球！”

Mrs. Touchett reserved her opinion. ‘The girl’s fortunate; I don’t deny that. But for the present she’s simply stupefied.’
塔切特夫人保留了她的意见。 ‘这女孩很幸运；我不否认这一点。但目前她只是惊呆了。

‘Do you mean that she doesn’t know what to do with the money?’
“你的意思是她不知道如何处理这些钱？”

‘That, I think, she has hardly considered. She doesn’t know what to think about the matter at all. It has been as if a big gun were suddenly fired off behind her; she’s feeling herself to see if she be hurt. It’s but three days since she received a visit from the principal executor, who came in person, very gallantly, to notify her. He told me afterwards that when he had made his little speech she suddenly burst into tears. The money’s to remain in the affairs of the bank, and she’s to draw the interest.’
“我认为，她几乎没有考虑过这一点。她根本不知道该如何看待这件事。就好像她身后突然发射了一把大枪；她正在感受自己是否受伤。距离她接到主要执行人的来访才三天，主执行人非常殷勤地亲自来通知她。他后来告诉我，当他发表了简短的讲话后，她突然哭了起来。这些钱将留在银行事务中，而她将提取利息。

Madame Merle shook her head with a wise and now quite benignant smile. ‘How very delicious! After she has done that two or three times she’ll get used to it.’ Then after a silence, ‘What does your son think of it?’ she abruptly asked.
梅尔夫人摇摇头，脸上露出睿智而现在相当和蔼的微笑。 ‘多么美味呀！这样做两三次之后就会习惯了。”沉默了一会儿，“你儿子觉得怎么样？”她突然问道。

‘He left England before the will was read—used up by his fatigue and anxiety and hurrying off to the south. He’s on his way to the Riviera and I’ve not yet heard from him. But it’s not likely he’ll ever object to anything done by his father.’
“他在宣读遗嘱之前就离开了英国——他因疲劳和焦虑而疲惫不堪，匆匆前往南方。他正在前往里维埃拉的路上，我还没有收到他的消息。但他不太可能反对他父亲所做的任何事情。”

‘Didn’t you say his own share had been cut down?’
“你不是说他自己的份额被削减了吗？”

‘Only at his wish. I know that he urged his father to do something for the people in America. He’s not in the least addicted to looking after number one.’
‘只是按照他的意愿。我知道他敦促他的父亲为美国人民做一些事情。他一点也不沉迷于照顾第一名。

‘It depends upon whom he regards as number one!’ said Madame Merle. And she remained thoughtful a moment, her eyes bent on the floor. ‘Am I not to see your happy niece?’ she asked at last as she raised them.
“这取决于他认为谁是第一！”梅尔夫人说。她沉思了一会儿，眼睛盯着地板。 “我不是要去看看你快乐的侄女吗？”她最后在抚养他们时问道。

‘You may see her; but you’ll not be struck with her being happy. She has looked as solemn, these three days, as a Cimabue Madonna!’ And Mrs. Touchett rang for a servant.
“你可以看到她；但你不会因为她的幸福而感到震惊。这三天，她看上去就像契马布埃圣母一样庄严！”图切特夫人按铃叫仆人。

Isabel came in shortly after the footman had been sent to call her; and Madame Merle thought, as she appeared, that Mrs. Touchett’s comparison had its force. The girl was pale and grave—an effect not mitigated by her deeper mourning; but the smile of her brightest moments came into her face as she saw Madame Merle, who went forward, laid her hand on our heroine’s shoulder and, after looking at her a moment, kissed her as if she were returning the kiss she had received from her at Gardencourt. This was the only allusion the visitor, in her great good taste, made for the present to her young friend’s inheritance.
仆人被派去叫伊莎贝尔后不久，伊莎贝尔就进来了。梅尔夫人认为，从她的表现来看，图切特夫人的比较有其说服力。女孩脸色苍白，表情严肃——她的悲伤并没有减轻这种影响。但当她看到梅尔夫人走上前来，把手搭在我们女主人公的肩膀上，看了她一会儿后，吻了她，仿佛她是在回报她所接受的吻一样，她的脸上绽放出了她最灿烂时刻的微笑。她在花园庭院。这是这位来访者以她的高雅品味为礼物送给她年轻朋友的遗产的唯一暗示。

Mrs. Touchett had no purpose of awaiting in London the sale of her house. After selecting from among its furniture the objects she wished to transport to her other abode, she left the rest of its contents to be disposed of by the auctioneer and took her departure for the Continent. She was of course accompanied on this journey by her niece, who now had plenty of leisure to measure and weigh and otherwise handle the windfall on which Madame Merle had covertly congratulated her. Isabel thought very often of the fact of her accession of means, looking at it in a dozen different lights; but we shall not now attempt to follow her train of thought or to explain exactly why her new consciousness was at first oppressive. This failure to rise to immediate joy was indeed but brief; the girl presently made up her mind that to be rich was a virtue because it was to be able to do, and that to do could only be sweet. It was the graceful contrary of the stupid side of weakness—especially the feminine variety. To be weak was, for a delicate young person, rather graceful, but, after all, as Isabel said to herself, there was a larger grace than that. Just now, it is true, there was not much to do—once she had sent off a cheque to Lily, and another to poor Edith; but she was thankful for the quiet months which her mourning robes and her aunt’s fresh widowhood compelled them to spend together. The acquisition of power made her serious; she scrutinized her power with a kind of tender ferocity, but was not eager to exercise it. She began to do so during a stay of some weeks which she eventually made with her aunt in Paris, though in ways that will inevitably present themselves as trivial. They were the ways most naturally imposed in a city in which the shops are the admiration of the world, and that were prescribed unreservedly by the guidance of Mrs. Touchett, who took a rigidly practical view of the transformation of her niece from a poor girl to a rich one. ‘Now that you’re a young woman of fortune you must know how to play the part—I mean to play it well,’ she said to Isabel once for all; and she added that the girl’s first duty was to have everything handsome. ‘You don’t know how to take care of your things, but you must learn,’ she went on; this was Isabel’s second duty. Isabel submitted, but for the present her imagination was not kindled; she longed for opportunities, but these were not the opportunities she meant.
塔切特夫人无意在伦敦等待她的房子被出售。从里面的家具中挑选出她想要运送到另一个住处的物品后，她把剩下的东西交给拍卖师处理掉，然后就出发前往大陆了。当然，她的侄女陪伴着她踏上这次旅程，她现在有足够的空闲时间来测量和称重，或者处理梅尔夫人暗中祝贺她的意外之财。伊莎贝尔经常想到她增加财富的事实，从十几种不同的角度来看待它。但我们现在不打算尝试追随她的思路或准确解释为什么她的新意识一开始是压抑的。未能立即获得喜悦确实只是短暂的。女孩很快就认定，富有是一种美德，因为它意味着能够做事，而做事只能是甜蜜的。这是软弱的愚蠢一面的优雅反面——尤其是女性的软弱。对于一个柔弱的年轻人来说，软弱是相当优雅的，但毕竟，正如伊莎贝尔对自己说的，还有比这更大的优雅。确实，现在没什么可做的——她已经给莉莉寄了一张支票，又给可怜的伊迪丝寄了一张支票。但她很感激她的丧袍和姨妈的新守寡迫使他们一起度过了安静的几个月。权力的获得让她变得严肃起来；她以一种温柔而凶猛的态度审视着自己的权力，但并不急于运用它。她在逗留了几个星期后开始这样做，最终她和她的姑妈在巴黎一起住了，尽管方式不可避免地显得微不足道。 在一座商店令全世界赞叹的城市里，这些是最自然而然的方式，而且是在图切特夫人的指导下毫无保留地规定的，她对侄女从一个贫穷女孩的转变采取了严格的实际看法。给一个有钱人。 “既然你是一个年轻的富有的女人，你必须知道如何扮演这个角色——我的意思是演好它，”她对伊莎贝尔说了一次。她补充说，女孩的首要任务就是让一切都漂亮。 “你不知道如何照顾你的东西，但你必须学习，”她继续说道。这是伊莎贝尔的第二项职责。伊莎贝尔屈服了，但目前她的想象力还没有被点燃。她渴望机会，但这并不是她所指的机会。

Mrs. Touchett rarely changed her plans, and, having intended before her husband’s death to spend a part of the winter in Paris, saw no reason to deprive herself—still less to deprive her companionof this advantage. Though they would live in great retirement she might still present her niece, informally, to the little circle of her fellow countrymen dwelling upon the skirts of the Champs Elysees. With many of these amiable colonists Mrs. Touchett was intimate; she shared their expatriation, their convictions, their pastimes, their ennui. Isabel saw them arrive with a good deal of assiduity at her aunt’s hotel, and pronounced on them with a trenchancy doubtless to be accounted for by the temporary exaltation of her sense of human duty. She made up her mind that their lives were, though luxurious, inane, and incurred some disfavour by expressing this view on bright Sunday afternoons, when the American absentees were engaged in calling on each other. Though her listeners passed for people kept exemplarily genial by their cooks and dressmakers, two or three of them thought her cleverness, which was generally admitted, inferior to that of the new theatrical pieces. ‘You all live here this way, but what does it lead to?’ she was pleased to ask. ‘It doesn’t seem to lead to anything, and I should think you’d get very tired of it.’
塔切特夫人很少改变她的计划，而且在她丈夫去世前就打算在巴黎过冬，她认为没有理由剥夺自己的权利——更不用说剥夺她的同伴的这一优势了。尽管他们将过着退休生活，但她仍可能非正式地将她的侄女介绍给居住在香榭丽舍大街附近的一小群同胞。塔切特夫人与许多和蔼可亲的殖民者关系密切。她分享了他们的流亡生活、他们的信念、他们的消遣和他们的厌倦。伊莎贝尔看到他们非常勤奋地到达了她姨妈的旅馆，她对他们的讲话十分犀利，这无疑是由于她暂时提升了人类责任感。她断定，他们的生活虽然奢华，但却毫无意义，并且在阳光明媚的周日下午，当美国缺席者互相拜访时表达这种观点，招致了一些不满。尽管她的听众认为他们的厨师和裁缝保持着模范和蔼可亲的态度，但其中两三个人认为她的聪明才智（这一点已被普遍承认）不如新戏剧作品。 “你们都这样住在这里，但这会导致什么呢？”她很高兴地问道。 “这似乎不会带来任何结果，我想你会对此感到非常厌倦。”

Mrs. Touchett thought the question worthy of Henrietta Stackpole. The two ladies had found Henrietta in Paris, and Isabel constantly saw her; so that Mrs. Touchett had some reason for saying to herself that if her niece were not clever enough to originate almost anything, she might be suspected of having borrowed that style of remark from her journalistic friend. The first occasion on which Isabel had spoken was that of a visit paid by the two ladies to Mrs. Luce, an old friend of Mrs. Touchett’s and the only person in Paris she now went to see. Mrs. Luce had been living in Paris since the days of Louis Philippe; she used to say jocosely that she was one of the generation of 1830—a joke of which the point was not always taken. When it failed Mrs. Luce used to explain—‘Oh yes, I’m one of the romantics”; her French had never become quite perfect. She was always at home on Sunday afternoons and surrounded by sympathetic compatriots, usually the same. In fact she was at home at all times, and reproduced with wondrous truth in her well-cushioned little corner of the brilliant city, the domestic tone of her native Baltimore. This reduced Mr. Luce, her worthy husband, a tall, lean, grizzled, well-brushed gentleman who wore a gold eye-glass and carried his hat a little too much on the back of his head, to mere platonic praise of the ‘distractions’ of Paris—they were his great word—since you would never have guessed from what cares he escaped to them. One of them was that he went every day to the American banker’s, where he found a post-office that was almost as sociable and colloquial an institution as in an American country town. He passed an hour (in fine weather) in a chair in the Champs Elysees, and he dined uncommonly well at his own table, seated above a waxed floor which it was Mrs. Luce’s happiness to believe had a finer polish than any other in the French capital. Occasionally he dined with a friend or two at the Cafe Anglais, where his talent for ordering a dinner was a source of felicity to his companions and an object of admiration even to the headwaiter of the establishment. These were his only known pastimes, but they had beguiled his hours for upwards of half a century, and they doubtless justified his frequent declaration that there was no place like Paris. In no other place, on these terms, could Mr. Luce flatter himself that he was enjoying life. There was nothing like Paris, but it must be confessed that Mr. Luce thought less highly of this scene of his dissipations than in earlier days. In the list of his resources his political reflections should not be omitted, for they were doubtless the animating principle of many hours that superficially seemed vacant. Like many of his fellow colonists Mr. Luce was a high—or rather a deep—conservative, and gave no countenance to the government lately established in France. He had no faith in its duration and would assure you from year to year that its end was close at hand. ‘They want to be kept down, sir, to be kept down; nothing but the strong hand—the iron heel—will do for them,’ he would frequently say of the French people; and his ideal of a fine showy clever rule was that of the superseded Empire. ‘Paris is much less attractive than in the days of the Emperor; he knew how to make a city pleasant,’ Mr. Luce had often remarked to Mrs. Touchett, who was quite of his own way of thinking and wished to know what one had crossed that odious Atlantic for but to get away from republics.
塔切特夫人认为这个问题值得亨丽埃塔·斯塔克波尔提出。两位女士在巴黎找到了亨利埃塔，伊莎贝尔经常见到她。因此，图切特夫人有理由对自己说，如果她的侄女不够聪明，几乎无法发明任何东西，那么她可能会被怀疑是从她的新闻朋友那里借用了这种风格的言论。伊莎贝尔第一次说话是在两位女士拜访卢斯夫人时，卢斯夫人是图切特夫人的老朋友，也是她现在在巴黎唯一去见的人。卢斯夫人从路易·菲利普时代起就一直住在巴黎。她常常开玩笑地说她是 1830 年代的一代——这个玩笑并不总是能引起人们的注意。当它失败时，卢斯夫人常常解释道：“哦，是的，我是浪漫主义者之一”；她的法语从未变得十分完美。周日下午她总是待在家里，周围都是富有同情心的同胞，通常都是这样。事实上，她一直都在家里，在这座辉煌城市的舒适小角落里，再现了她家乡巴尔的摩的家庭氛围，呈现出奇妙的真实。这让卢斯先生——她值得尊敬的丈夫——一位身材高大、精瘦、头发花白、头发梳得整整齐齐的绅士——戴着金色眼镜，帽子戴在后脑勺上有点过分——变成了柏拉图式的赞美。 “巴黎的干扰”——这是他的名言——因为你永远猜不到他对这些干扰的担忧。其中之一是，他每天都去美国银行家，在那里他发现了一个几乎和美国乡村小镇一样友善和口语的邮局。 他在香榭丽舍大街的椅子上度过了一个小时（天气晴朗时），他在自己的餐桌上吃得异常美味，坐在打蜡的地板上，卢斯夫人很高兴地相信，地板比世界上任何其他地板都擦得更漂亮。法国首都。偶尔，他会和一两个朋友在英国咖啡馆吃饭，他订餐的天赋让他的同伴们感到高兴，甚至让餐厅的领班也钦佩不已。这些是他唯一为人所知的消遣，但半个多世纪以来，它们一直困扰着他，毫无疑问，它们证明了他经常宣称没有一个地方能像巴黎那样的说法是正确的。就这些条件而言，在其他任何地方，卢斯先生都无法自以为他正在享受生活。没有什么比巴黎更好的了，但必须承认，卢斯先生对他放荡的这一幕的评价不如以前那么高了。在他的资源清单中，他的政治反思不应被忽略，因为它们无疑是表面上看似空虚的许多小时的充满活力的原则。像他的许多殖民同胞一样，卢斯先生是一个高度保守的——或者更确切地说是一个深度保守的——保守派，并且不支持法国新近成立的政府。他对它的持续时间没有信心，并且会年复一年地向你保证它的终结即将到来。 “他们想要被压制，先生，被压制； “只有强有力的手——铁蹄——才能帮助他们，”他经常这样评价法国人民。他理想中的华丽而聪明的统治就是被取代的帝国。 “巴黎的吸引力远不如皇帝时代；卢斯先生经常对夫人说：“他知道如何让一座城市变得愉快。” 塔切特很有自己的想法，他想知道一个人跨越那片可恶的大西洋除了逃离共和国之外还有什么目的。

‘Why, madam, sitting in the Champs Elysees, opposite to the Palace of Industry, I’ve seen the court-carriages from the Tuileries pass up and down as many as seven times a day. I remember one occasion when they went as high as nine. What do you see now? It’s no use talking, the style’s all gone. Napoleon knew what the French people want, and there’ll be a dark cloud over Paris, our Paris, till they get the Empire back again.’
“哎呀，夫人，坐在香榭丽舍大街工业宫对面的地方，我看见杜伊勒里宫的宫廷马车每天往返七次之多。我记得有一次他们的数字高达九。你现在看到了什么？说话也没用，风格都没有了。拿破仑知道法国人民想要什么，在他们重新夺回帝国之前，巴黎，我们的巴黎上空将会有一片乌云。

Among Mrs. Luce’s visitors on Sunday afternoons was a young man with whom Isabel had had a good deal of conversation and whom she found full of valuable knowledge. Mr. Edward Rosier—Ned Rosier as he was called—was native to New York and had been brought up in Paris, living there under the eye of his father who, as it happened, had been an early and intimate friend of the late Mr. Archer. Edward Rosier remembered Isabel as a little girl; it had been his father who came to the rescue of the small Archers at the inn at Neufchatel (he was travelling that way with the boy and had stopped at the hotel by chance), after their bonne had gone off with the Russian prince and when Mr. Archer’s whereabouts remained for some days a mystery. Isabel remembered perfectly the neat little male child whose hair smelt of a delicious cosmetic and who had a bonne all his own, warranted to lose sight of him under no provocation. Isabel took a walk with the pair beside the lake and thought little Edward as pretty as an angel—a comparison by no means conventional in her mind, for she had a very definite conception of a type of features which she supposed to be angelic and which her new friend perfectly illustrated. A small pink face surmounted by a blue velvet bonnet and set off by a stiff embroidered collar had become the countenance of her childish dreams; and she had firmly believed for some time afterwards that the heavenly hosts conversed among themselves in a queer little dialect of French-English, expressing the properest sentiments, as when Edward told her that he was ‘defended’ by his bonne to go near the edge of the lake, and that one must always obey to one’s bonne. Ned Rosier’s English had improved; at least it exhibited in a less degree the French variation. His father was dead and his bonne dismissed, but the young man still conformed to the spirit of their teaching—he never went to the edge of the lake. There was still something agreeable to the nostrils about him and something not offensive to nobler organs. He was a very gentle and gracious youth, with what are called cultivated tastes—an acquaintance with old china, with good wine, with the bindings of books, with the Almanach de Gotha, with the best shops, the best hotels, the hours of railway-trains. He could order a dinner almost as well as Mr. Luce, and it was probable that as his experience accumulated he would be a worthy successor to that gentleman, whose rather grim politics he also advocated in a soft and innocent voice. He had some charming rooms in Paris, decorated with old Spanish altar-lace, the envy of his female friends, who declared that his chimney-piece was better draped than the high shoulders of many a duchess. He usually, however, spent a part of every winter at Pau, and had once passed a couple of months in the United States.
周日下午，卢斯夫人的访客中有一位年轻人，伊莎贝尔与他进行了很多交谈，她发现他充满了宝贵的知识。爱德华·罗齐尔先生（人们称他为内德·罗齐尔）是土生土长的纽约人，在巴黎长大，在他父亲的注视下生活，而父亲恰好是已故先生的早期密友。 .弓箭手。爱德华·罗齐尔 (Edward Rosier) 记得伊莎贝尔还是个小女孩。正是他的父亲在纳沙特尔的旅馆里救了小弓箭手（他和男孩一起旅行，偶然在旅馆停留），在他们的好朋友和俄罗斯王子一起离开之后，当几天来，阿切尔先生的下落仍然是个谜。伊莎贝尔清楚地记得那个整洁的小男孩，他的头发闻起来有一种美味的化妆品的味道，而且他自己也很善良，在没有任何挑衅的情况下，他一定会离开他的视线。伊莎贝尔和两人在湖边散步，觉得小爱德华像天使一样漂亮——这种比较在她心里绝不是传统的，因为她对一种她认为是天使般的特征有一个非常明确的概念。她的新朋友完美地说明了这一点。一张粉红色的小脸，戴着一顶蓝色天鹅绒帽子，衬托着硬挺的绣花领子，这已经成为她幼稚梦想中的面孔。此后的一段时间里，她坚信天上的主人会用一种奇怪的法语-英语方言相互交谈，表达最恰当的情感，就像爱德华告诉她，他受到了他的善良的“保护”，才走到了边缘。湖的一部分，一个人必须始终遵守自己的道德。内德·罗齐尔的英语水平有所提高；至少它在一定程度上表现出了法国的变异。 他的父亲去世了，他的灵魂也被解散了，但年轻人仍然遵循着他们的教诲精神——他从未去过湖边。他的身上仍然有一些令人鼻孔舒服的东西，同时也有一些不令高贵器官感到厌恶的东西。他是一个非常温柔和蔼的年轻人，具有所谓的有教养的品味——熟悉旧瓷器，熟悉美酒，熟悉书籍装订，熟悉哥达年鉴，熟悉最好的商店，最好的酒店，以及工作时间。铁路列车。他几乎可以和卢斯先生一样点餐，而且随着经验的积累，他很可能会成为这位先生的当之无愧的继承者，他还以柔和而天真的声音宣扬着卢斯先生相当严峻的政治。他在巴黎有一些迷人的房间，装饰着古老的西班牙祭坛蕾丝，这让他的女性朋友羡慕不已，她们宣称他的烟囱比许多公爵夫人的高肩膀更好。然而，他通常每年冬天都会在波城度过一段时间，并且曾经在美国度过了几个月。

He took a great interest in Isabel and remembered perfectly the walk at Neufchatel, when she would persist in going so near the edge. He seemed to recognize this same tendency in the subversive enquiry that I quoted a moment ago, and set himself to answer our heroine’s question with greater urbanity than it perhaps deserved. ‘What does it lead to, Miss Archer? Why Paris leads everywhere. You can’t go anywhere unless you come here first. Every one that comes to Europe has got to pass through. You don’t mean it in that sense so much? You mean what good it does you? Well, how can you penetrate futurity? How can you tell what lies ahead? If it’s a pleasant road I don’t care where it leads. I like the road, Miss Archer; I like the dear old asphalte. You can’t get tired of it—you can’t if you try. You think you would, but you wouldn’t; there’s always something new and fresh. Take the Hotel Drouot, now; they sometimes have three and four sales a week. Where can you get such things as you can here? In spite of all they say I maintain they’re cheaper too, if you know the right places. I know plenty of places, but I keep them to myself. I’ll tell you, if you like, as a particular favour; only you mustn’t tell any one else. Don’t you go anywhere without asking me first; I want you to promise me that. As a general thing avoid the Boulevards; there’s very little to be done on the Boulevards. Speaking conscientiously—sans blague—I don’t believe any one knows Paris better than I. You and Mrs. Touchett must come and breakfast with me some day, and I’ll show you my things; je ne vous dis que ca! There has been a great deal of talk about London of late; it’s the fashion to cry up London. But there’s nothing in it—you can’t do anything in London. No Louis Quinze—nothing of the First Empire; nothing but their eternal Queen Anne. It’s good for one’s bed-room, Queen Annefor one’s washing-room; but it isn’t proper for a salon. Do I spend my life at the auctioneer’s?’ Mr. Rosier pursued in answer to another question of Isabel’s. ‘Oh no; I haven’t the means. I wish I had. You think I’m a mere trifler; I can tell by the expression of your faceyou’ve got a wonderfully expressive face. I hope you don’t mind my saying that; I mean it as a kind of warning. You think I ought to do something, and so do I, so long as you leave it vague. But when you come to the point you see you have to stop. I can’t go home and be a shopkeeper. You think I’m very well fitted? Ah, Miss Archer, you overrate me. I can buy very well, but I can’t sell; you should see when I sometimes try to get rid of my things. It takes much more ability to make other people buy than to buy yourself. When I think how clever they must be, the people who make me buy! Ah no; I couldn’t be a shopkeeper. I can’t be a doctor; it’s a repulsive business. I can’t be a clergyman; I haven’t got convictions. And then I can’t pronounce the names right in the Bible. They’re very difficult, in the Old Testament particularly. I can’t be a lawyer; I don’t understandhow do you call it?—the American procedure. Is there anything else? There’s nothing for a gentleman in America. I should like to be a diplomatist; but American diplomacy—that’s not for gentlemen either. I’m sure if you had seen the last min-.’
他对伊莎贝尔很感兴趣，并清楚地记得在纳沙泰尔散步的情景，当时她坚持走得离边缘很近。他似乎在我刚才引用的颠覆性调查中认识到了同样的趋势，并以比应有的更大的礼貌来回答我们女主人公的问题。 “这会导致什么结果，阿切尔小姐？为什么巴黎到处领先。除非你先来这里，否则你哪儿也去不了。每一个来到欧洲的人都必须经过这一关。你不是这个意思吗？你的意思是这对你有什么好处？那么，如何才能洞察未来呢？你怎么知道未来会发生什么？如果这是一条愉快的路，我不在乎它通向哪里。我喜欢这条路，阿切尔小姐；我喜欢亲爱的旧沥青。你永远不会厌倦——只要你尝试，你就不会厌倦。你以为你会，但你不会；总是有新鲜的东西。立即前往德鲁奥酒店；他们有时每周会进行三到四次销售。哪里能得到像这里一样的东西？尽管他们这么说，但我坚持认为，如果你知道正确的地方，它们也更便宜。我知道很多地方，但我只保守秘密。如果你愿意的话，我会告诉你，作为一个特别的帮助；只是你不能告诉任何人。不先问我就不要去任何地方；我要你答应我这一点。一般来说，避开林荫大道；林荫大道上没什么可做的。说实话——没有任何黑话——我相信没有人比我更了解巴黎。你和图切特夫人有一天一定要来和我一起吃早餐，我会把我的东西给你看；我会告诉你我的东西。我不知道你是谁！最近有很多关于伦敦的讨论。为伦敦哭泣是一种时尚。但里面什么也没有——你在伦敦什么也做不了。 没有路易斯·昆兹——没有第一帝国的风格；除了他们永远的安妮女王之外什么也没有。适合卧室，安妮女王适合盥洗室；但它不适合沙龙。 “我的一生都是在拍卖行度过的吗？”罗齐尔先生在回答伊莎贝尔的另一个问题时问道。 '不好了;我没有办法。我希望我有。你以为我只是个小人物；我可以从你脸上的表情看出你有一张非常富有表情的脸。我希望你不介意我这么说；我的意思是作为一种警告。你认为我应该做点什么，我也应该做点什么，只要你含糊其辞。但当你到达这个地步时，你发现你必须停下来。我不能回家当店主。你觉得我很合适吗？啊，阿彻小姐，你高估了我。我买得很好，但卖不了；你应该看看我有时会试图扔掉我的东西。让别人购买比自己购买需要更多的能力。当我想到他们一定是多么聪明，那些让我购买的人！啊不；我不能当店主。我不能成为一名医生；这是一件令人厌恶的事。我不能当牧师；我还没有定罪。然后我就无法正确发音圣经中的名字。它们非常困难，特别是在旧约中。我不能成为一名律师；我不明白你怎么称呼它？——美国程序。还有别的事吗？在美国，绅士没什么可做的。我想成为一名外交官；但美国外交——这也不适合先生们。我确定你是否看过最后一分钟。’

Henrietta Stackpole, who was often with her friend when Mr. Rosier, coming to pay his compliments late in the afternoon, expressed himself after the fashion I have sketched, usually interrupted the young man at this point and read him a lecture on the duties of the American citizen. She thought him most unnatural; he was worse than poor Ralph Touchett. Henrietta, however, was at this time more than ever addicted to fine criticism, for her conscience had been freshly alarmed as regards Isabel. She had not congratulated this young lady on her augmentations and begged to be excused from doing so.
亨利埃塔·斯塔克波尔（Henrietta Stackpole）经常和她的朋友在一起，当罗齐尔先生下午晚些时候过来致意时，他按照我所描绘的方式表达了自己的看法，通常会在这个时候打断这位年轻人，给他读一篇关于他的职责的讲座。美国公民。她认为他极其不自然。他比可怜的拉尔夫·图切特还要糟糕。然而，亨利埃塔此时比以往任何时候都更沉迷于批评，因为她的良心刚刚对伊莎贝尔感到震惊。她并没有祝贺这位年轻女士的隆胸手术，并请求原谅她这样做。

‘If Mr. Touchett had consulted me about leaving you the money,’ she frankly asserted, ‘I’d have said to him ‘Never!’
“如果图切特先生咨询过我是否要把钱留给你，”她坦白地说，“我会对他说‘决不！’”

‘I see,’ Isabel had answered, ‘You think it will prove a curse in disguise. Perhaps it will.’
“我明白了，”伊莎贝尔回答道，“你认为这会证明是变相的诅咒。”也许会的。

‘Leave it to some one you care less for—that’s what I should have said.’
“把它留给你不太关心的人吧——这才是我应该说的。”

‘To yourself for instance?’ Isabel suggested jocosely. And then, ‘Do you really believe it will ruin me?’ she asked in quite another tone.
“比如对你自己？”伊莎贝尔开玩笑地建议道。然后，“你真的相信这会毁了我吗？”她用完全不同的语气问道。

‘I hope it won’t ruin you; but it will certainly confirm your dangerous tendencies.’
“我希望它不会毁了你；但这肯定会证实你的危险倾向。”

‘Do you mean the love of luxury—of extravagance?’
“你的意思是对奢华——铺张浪费的热爱吗？”

‘No, no,’ said Henrietta; ‘I mean your exposure on the moral side. I approve of luxury; I think we ought to be as elegant as possible. Look at the luxury of our western cities; I’ve seen nothing over here to compare with it. I hope you’ll never become grossly sensual; but I’m not afraid of that. The peril for you is that you live too much in the world of your own dreams. You’re not enough in contact with realitywith the toiling, striving, suffering, I may even say sinning, world that surrounds you. You’re too fastidious; you’ve too many graceful illusions. Your newly-acquired thousands will shut you up more and more to the society of a few selfish and heartless people who will be interested in keeping them up.’
“不，不，”亨丽埃塔说。 “我指的是你在道德方面的暴露。我赞成奢侈；我认为我们应该尽可能优雅。看看我们西方城市的奢华；我在这里没有看到任何东西可以与之相比。我希望你永远不要变得非常感性；但我并不害怕。对你来说，危险在于你太多地生活在自己梦想的世界里。你没有充分接触现实，接触你周围的辛劳、奋斗、痛苦，我什至可以说是罪恶的世界。你太挑剔了；你有太多美好的幻想。你新获得的数千人会让你越来越远离那些自私无情的人的社会，而这些人有兴趣让他们继续下去。

Isabel’s eyes expanded as she gazed at this lurid scene. ‘What are my illusions?’ she asked. ‘I try so hard not to have any.’
伊莎贝尔看着这恐怖的一幕，眼睛睁大了。 “我的幻想是什么？”她问道。 “我努力不让自己拥有任何东西。”

‘Well,’ said Henrietta, ‘you think you can lead a romantic life, that you can live by pleasing yourself and pleasing others. You’ll find you’re mistaken. Whatever life you lead you must put your soul in it—to make any sort of success of it; and from the moment you do that it ceases to be romance, I assure you: it becomes grim reality! And you can’t always please yourself; you must sometimes please other people. That, I admit, you’re very ready to do; but there’s another thing that’s still more important—you must often displease others. You must always be ready for that—you must never shrink from it. That doesn’t suit you at all—you’re too fond of admiration, you like to be thought well of. You think we can escape disagreeable duties by taking romantic views—that’s your great illusion, my dear. But we can’t. You must be prepared on many occasions in life to please no one at allnot even yourself.’
“好吧，”亨丽埃塔说，“你认为你可以过一种浪漫的生活，可以通过取悦自己和取悦他人来生活。你会发现你错了。无论你过着什么样的生活，你都必须全身心投入，才能取得任何成功；从你这样做的那一刻起，它就不再是浪漫的了，我向你保证：它变成了残酷的现实！而且你不能总是取悦自己；有时你必须取悦别人。我承认，你已经做好了准备。但还有一件事更重要——你必须经常得罪别人。你必须时刻做好准备——你绝不能回避它。这根本不适合你——你太喜欢别人的钦佩，喜欢被人看好。你认为我们可以通过采取浪漫的观点来逃避不愉快的职责——那是你巨大的幻想，亲爱的。但我们不能。你必须做好准备，在生活中的许多场合，根本无法取悦任何人，甚至包括你自己。”

Isabel shook her head sadly; she looked troubled and frightened. ‘This, for you, Henrietta,’ she said, ‘must be one of those occasions!’
伊莎贝尔悲伤地摇摇头。她看起来很困扰，也很害怕。 “这对你来说，亨丽埃塔，”她说，“一定是这样的场合之一！”

It was certainly true that Miss Stackpole, during her visit to Paris, which had been professionally more remunerative than her English sojourn, had not been living in the world of dreams. Mr. Bantling, who had now returned to England, was her companion for the first four weeks of her stay; and about Mr. Bantling there was nothing dreamy. Isabel learned from her friend that the two had led a life of great personal intimacy and that this had been a peculiar advantage to Henrietta, owing to the gentleman’s remarkable knowledge of Paris. He had explained everything, shown her everything, been her constant guide and interpreter. They had breakfasted together, dined together, gone to the theatre together, supped together, really in a manner quite lived together. He was a true friend, Henrietta more than once assured our heroine; and she had never supposed that she could like any Englishman so well. Isabel could not have told you why, but she found something that ministered to mirth in the alliance the correspondent of the Interviewer had struck with Lady Pensil’s brother; her amusement moreover subsisted in face of the fact that she thought it a credit to each of them. Isabel couldn’t rid herself of a suspicion that they were playing somehow at cross-purposes—that the simplicity of each had been entrapped. But this simplicity was on either side none the less honourable. It was as graceful on Henrietta’s part to believe that Mr. Bantling took an interest in the diffusion of lively journalism and in consolidating the position of lady-correspondents as it was on the part of his companion to suppose that the cause of the Interviewer—a periodical of which he never formed a very definite conception—was, if subtly analyzed (a task to which Mr. Bantling felt himself quite equal), but the cause of Miss Stackpole’s need of demonstrative affection. Each of these groping celibates supplied at any rate a want of which the other was impatiently conscious. Mr. Bantling, who was of rather a slow and a discursive habit, relished a prompt, keen, positive woman, who charmed him by the influence of a shining, challenging eye and a kind of bandbox freshness, and who kindled a perception of raciness in a mind to which the usual fare of life seemed unsalted. Henrietta, on the other hand, enjoyed the society of a gentleman who appeared somehow, in his way, made, by expensive, roundabout, almost ‘quaint’ processes, for her use, and whose leisured state, though generally indefensible, was a decided boon to a breathless mate, and who was furnished with an easy, traditional, though by no means exhaustive, answer to almost any social or practical question that could come up. She often found Mr. Bantling’s answers very convenient, and in the press of catching the American post would largely and showily address them to publicity. It was to be feared that she was indeed drifting toward those abysses of sophistication as to which Isabel, wishing for a good-humoured retort, had warned her. There might be danger in store for Isabel; but it was scarcely to be hoped that Miss Stackpole, on her side, would find permanent rest in any adoption of the views of a class pledged to all the old abuses. Isabel continued to warn her good-humouredly; Lady Pensil’s obliging brother was sometimes, on our heroine’s lips, an object of irreverent and facetious allusion. Nothing, however, could exceed Henrietta’s amiability on this point; she used to abound in the sense of Isabel’s irony and to enumerate with elation the hours she had spent with this perfect man of the world—a term that had ceased to make with her, as previously, for opprobrium. Then, a few moments later, she would forget that they had been talking jocosely and would mention with impulsive earnestness some expedition she had enjoyed in his company. She would say: ‘Oh, I know all about Versailles; I went there with Mr. Bantling. I was bound to see it thoroughly—I warned him when we went out there that I was thorough: so we spent three days at the hotel and wandered all over the place. It was lovely weather—a kind of Indian summer, only not so good. We just lived in that park. Oh yes; you can’t tell me anything about Versailles.’ Henrietta appeared to have made arrangements to meet her gallant friend during the spring in Italy.
诚然，斯塔克波尔小姐在访问巴黎期间，在职业上比她在英国逗留期间获得的报酬更高，但她并没有生活在梦想的世界中。班特林先生现已返回英国，在她逗留的前四个星期里一直陪伴着她。班特林先生一点也不梦幻。伊莎贝尔从她的朋友那里得知，两人过着非常亲密的生活，这对亨利埃塔来说是一个独特的优势，因为这位绅士对巴黎有着非凡的了解。他解释了一切，向她展示了一切，是她不变的向导和解释者。他们一起吃早餐，一起吃饭，一起去看戏，一起吃晚饭，实际上是一起生活的。亨利埃塔不止一次向我们的女主人公保证，他是一位真正的朋友。她从来没想过自己会这么喜欢一个英国人。伊莎贝尔无法告诉你原因，但她在采访者的记者与彭西尔夫人的兄弟结成的联盟中发现了一些令人高兴的事情；而且，她觉得这对他们每个人来说都是一种功劳，这让她觉得很有趣。伊莎贝尔无法摆脱自己的怀疑，认为他们不知何故在玩弄相反的目的——每个人的简单性都被困住了。但这种简单性对于双方来说都是值得尊敬的。亨丽埃塔认为班特林先生对传播活跃的新闻事业和巩固女记者的地位感兴趣，就像他的同伴认为采访者的事业——他从未对这本期刊形成一个非常明确的概念——如果进行巧妙的分析的话（这是一项任务，先生。 班特林觉得自己相当平等），但这也是斯塔克波尔小姐需要表达感情的原因。无论如何，这些摸索的独身者中的每一个都满足了对方不耐烦地意识到的需求。班特林先生性格比较迟钝、爱说话，但他喜欢一个敏捷、敏锐、积极的女人，她的目光闪闪发亮、富有挑战性，有一种乐队般的新鲜感，让他着迷，而且还激发了一种活泼的感觉。在他看来，平常的生活似乎没有加盐。另一方面，亨利埃塔喜欢与一位绅士交往，这位绅士似乎以某种方式，通过昂贵的、迂回的、近乎“古怪”的工艺制成，供她使用，而他的悠闲状态虽然一般来说是站不住脚的，但却是一种决定性的。对一个气喘吁吁的伴侣来说是福音，他对几乎所有可能出现的社会或实际问题都提供了简单、传统但绝不详尽的答案。她经常发现班特林先生的答案非常方便，而在媒体上，《美国邮报》会在很大程度上华丽地向公众宣传这些答案。令人担心的是，她确实正朝着那些老练的深渊漂去，就像伊莎贝尔警告过她的那样，希望得到一个幽默的反驳。伊莎贝尔可能面临危险；但是，人们几乎不希望斯塔克波尔小姐站在她这一边，会在采纳一个发誓要犯下所有旧弊的阶级的观点时得到永久的休息。伊莎贝尔继续幽默地警告她。彭西尔夫人乐于助人的哥哥有时在我们的女主人公嘴里成为不敬和滑稽的暗示的对象。 然而，在这一点上，没有什么比亨利埃塔的和蔼可亲了。她常常充满伊莎贝尔的讽刺意味，并兴高采烈地列举她与这个世界上完美的男人一起度过的时光——这个词不再像以前那样用在她身上，用来表示责难。然后，过了一会儿，她就会忘记他们一直在开玩笑，并会带着冲动的认真提到她在他的陪伴下享受的一次探险。她会说：‘哦，我了解凡尔赛宫的一切；我和班特林先生一起去了那里。我一定要彻底地看清楚——当我们出去时我警告过他我已经彻底了：所以我们在旅馆里呆了三天，到处闲逛。天气很好，有点小阳春的感觉，只是不太好。我们刚刚住在那个公园里。哦是的; “你不能告诉我任何关于凡尔赛宫的事情。”亨利埃塔似乎已经安排好春天在意大利会见她勇敢的朋友。

Chapter 21
第21章

Mrs. Touchett, before arriving in Paris, had fixed the day for her departure and by the middle of February had begun to travel southward. She interrupted her journey to pay a visit to her son, who at San Remo, on the Italian shore of the Mediterranean, had been spending a dull, bright winter beneath a slow-moving white umbrella. Isabel went with her aunt as a matter of course, though Mrs. Touchett, with homely, customary logic, had laid before her a pair of alternatives.
塔切特夫人在抵达巴黎之前就已经确定了出发日期，并在二月中旬开始南下。她中断了行程去探望她的儿子，她的儿子在意大利地中海沿岸的圣雷莫，在缓慢移动的白色雨伞下度过了一个沉闷而明亮的冬天。伊莎贝尔理所当然地跟着她姨妈去了，尽管图切特夫人以朴素、惯常的逻辑，向她提出了两种选择。

‘Now, of course, you’re completely your own mistress and are as free as the bird on the bough. I don’t mean you were not so before, but you’re at present on a different footing—property erects a kind of barrier. You can do a great many things if you’re rich which would be severely criticized if you were poor. You can go and come, you can travel alone, you can have your own establishment: I mean of course if you’ll take a companion—some decayed gentlewoman, with a darned cashmere and dyed hair, who paints on velvet. You don’t think you’d like that? Of course you can do as you please; I only want you to understand how much you’re at liberty. You might take Miss Stackpole as your dame de compagnie; she’d keep people off very well. I think, however, that it’s a great deal better you should remain with me, in spite of there being no obligation. It’s better for several reasons, quite apart from your liking it. I shouldn’t think you’d like it, but I recommend you to make the sacrifice. Of course whatever novelty there may have been at first in my society has quite passed away, and you see me as I am—a dull, obstinate, narrow-minded old woman.’
“当然，现在你完全是你自己的情妇了，就像树枝上的小鸟一样自由。”我并不是说你以前不是这样，但你现在的立场不同了——财产竖起了一种障碍。如果你富有，你可以做很多事情，但如果你贫穷，你会受到严厉的批评。你可以走来走去，你可以独自旅行，你可以拥有自己的场所：我的意思是，当然，如果你愿意带一个同伴的话——某个腐朽的贵妇人，穿着该死的羊绒和染过的头发，在天鹅绒上作画。你认为你不喜欢那样吗？当然你可以随心所欲；我只想让你明白你有多少自由。你可以把斯塔克波尔小姐当作你的同伴；她会把人们拒之门外。然而，我认为，尽管没有任何义务，但你还是留在我身边会更好。它更好有几个原因，除了你喜欢它之外。我不认为你会喜欢它，但我建议你做出牺牲。当然，无论我的社会最初有什么新鲜感，都已经过去了，你看到的我就是我——一个迟钝、固执、心胸狭隘的老妇人。

‘I don’t think you’re at all dull,’ Isabel had replied to this.
“我认为你一点也不迟钝，”伊莎贝尔回答道。

‘But you do think I’m obstinate and narrow-minded? I told you so!’ said Mrs. Touchett with much elation at being justified.
‘但你确实认为我很固执、心胸狭隘吗？我早就告诉过你了！”图切特太太因为自己的合理性而非常高兴地说。

Isabel remained for the present with her aunt, because, in spite of eccentric impulses, she had a great regard for what was usually deemed decent, and a young gentlewoman without visible relations had always struck her as a flower without foliage. It was true that Mrs. Touchett’s conversation had never again appeared so brilliant as that first afternoon in Albany, when she sat in her damp waterproof and sketched the opportunities that Europe would offer to a young person of taste. This, however, was in a great measure the girl’s own fault; she had got a glimpse of her aunt’s experience, and her imagination constantly anticipated the judgements and emotions of a woman who had very little of the same faculty. Apart from this, Mrs. Touchett had a great merit; she was as honest as a pair of compasses. There was a comfort in her stiffness and firmness; you knew exactly where to find her and were never liable to chance encounters and concussions. On her own ground she was perfectly present, but was never over-inquisitive as regards the territory of her neighbour. Isabel came at last to have a kind of undemonstrable pity for her; there seemed something so dreary in the condition of a person whose nature had, as it were, so little surface—offered so limited a face to the accretions of human contact. Nothing tender, nothing sympathetic, had ever had a chance to fasten upon it—no wind-sown blossom, no familiar softening moss. Her offered, her passive extent, in other words, was about that of a knife-edge. Isabel had reason to believe none the less that as she advanced in life she made more of those concessions to the sense of something obscurely distinct from convenience—more of them than she independently exacted. She was learning to sacrifice consistency to considerations of that inferior order for which the excuse must be found in the particular case. It was not to the credit of her absolute rectitude that she should have gone the longest way round to Florence in order to spend a few weeks with her invalid son; since in former years it had been one of her most definite convictions that when Ralph wished to see her he was at liberty to remember that Palazzo Crescentini contained a large apartment known as the quarter of the signorino.
伊莎贝尔目前仍然和她的姨妈在一起，因为尽管她有古怪的冲动，但她非常尊重通常被认为是体面的东西，而一个没有明显亲戚的年轻淑女总是给她留下像无叶之花一样的印象。确实，图切特夫人的谈话从未像在奥尔巴尼的第一个下午那样精彩，当时她坐在潮湿的防水衣里，描绘了欧洲将为有品味的年轻人提供的机会。然而，这在很大程度上是女孩自己的错。她瞥见了姨妈的经历，她的想象力不断地预测着一个几乎没有同样能力的女人的判断和情感。除此之外，图切特夫人还有一个很大的优点：她像圆规一样诚实。她的僵硬和坚定给人一种安慰。你清楚地知道在哪里可以找到她，并且永远不会遭受偶然的遭遇和脑震荡。在她自己的土地上，她完全在场，但对邻居的领土从来没有过度好奇。伊莎贝尔终于对她产生了一种难以言表的怜悯。对于一个人来说，他的本性几乎没有什么表面——为人类接触的积累提供了如此有限的面孔，他的处境似乎是那么沉闷。没有任何温柔，任何同情，曾经有机会固定在它上面——没有风播的花朵，没有熟悉的柔软的苔藓。换句话说，她的提议、她的被动程度，大约是刀锋般的程度。尽管如此，伊莎贝尔有理由相信，随着她生活的进步，她对某种与便利截然不同的感觉做出了更多的让步——比她独立要求的更多。 她正在学着牺牲一致性来考虑低级秩序，为此必须在特定情况下找到借口。她本应该不远千里地绕到佛罗伦萨去陪她生病的儿子几个星期，这并不是因为她绝对的正直。因为在过去的几年里，她最坚定的信念之一是，当拉尔夫希望见到她时，他可以自由地记住克雷森蒂尼宫有一套大公寓，被称为“先生区”。

‘I want to ask you something,’ Isabel said to this young man the day after her arrival at San Remo—‘something I’ve thought more than once of asking you by letter, but that I’ve hesitated on the whole to write about. Face to face, nevertheless, my question seems easy enough. Did you know your father intended to leave me so much money?’
“我想问你一件事，”伊莎贝尔在到达圣雷莫的第二天对这个年轻人说，“我不止一次想过要写信问你这个问题，但总的来说我犹豫着要不要写信”关于。然而，面对面时，我的问题似乎很简单。你知道你父亲打算留给我这么多钱吗？

Ralph stretched his legs a little further than usual and gazed a little more fixedly at the Mediterranean. ‘What does it matter, my dear Isabel, whether I knew? My father was very obstinate.’
拉尔夫比平时把腿伸得更远了一些，更加专注地凝视着地中海。 “亲爱的伊莎贝尔，我是否知道有什么关系呢？我父亲非常固执。

‘So,’ said the girl, ‘you did know.’
“所以，”女孩说，“你确实知道。”

‘Yes; he told me. We even talked it over a little.’
'是的;他告诉我。我们甚至还讨论了一下。

‘What did he do it for?’ asked Isabel abruptly.
“他这么做是为了什么？”伊莎贝尔突然问道。

‘Why, as a kind of compliment.’
“为什么，作为一种赞美。”

‘A compliment on what?’
“赞美什么？”

‘On your so beautifully existing.’
“感谢你如此美丽的存在。”

‘He liked me too much,’ she presently declared.
“他太喜欢我了，”她随即宣称。

‘That’s a way we all have.’
“这是我们都有的方式。”

‘If I believed that I should be very unhappy. Fortunately I don’t believe it. I want to be treated with justice; I want nothing but that.’
‘如果我相信的话，我会很不高兴。幸好我不相信。我希望得到公正的对待；我只想要这个。

‘Very good. But you must remember that justice to a lovely being is after all a florid sort of sentiment.’
'非常好。但你必须记住，对一个可爱的存在的正义毕竟是一种华丽的情感。

‘I’m not a lovely being. How can you say that, at the very moment when I’m asking such odious questions? I must seem to you delicate!’
‘我不是一个可爱的人。当我问如此令人厌恶的问题时，你怎么能这么说呢？我一定在你看来很脆弱！

‘You seem to me troubled,’ said Ralph.
“我觉得你很困扰，”拉尔夫说。

‘I am troubled.’
“我很烦恼。”

‘About what?’
'关于什么？'

For a moment she answered nothing; then she broke out: ‘Do you think it good for me suddenly to be made so rich? Henrietta doesn’t.’
有那么一会儿，她什么也没回答。然后她突然说道：“你认为我突然变得如此富有对我有好处吗？”亨利埃塔没有。

‘Oh, hang Henrietta!’ said Ralph coarsely. ‘If you ask me I’m delighted at it.’
“噢，绞死亨丽埃塔！”拉尔夫粗声粗气地说。 “如果你问我，我会很高兴。”

‘Is that why your father did it—for your amusement?’
“这就是你父亲这么做的原因——为了让你开心吗？”

‘I differ with Miss Stackpole,’ Ralph went on more gravely. ‘I think it very good for you to have means.’
“我和斯塔克波尔小姐意见不同，”拉尔夫更加严肃地继续说道。 “我认为有钱对你来说非常好。”

Isabel looked at him with serious eyes. ‘I wonder whether you know what’s good for me—or whether you care.’
伊莎贝尔用严肃的眼神看着他。 “我想知道你是否知道什么对我有好处——或者你是否关心。”

‘If I know depend upon it I care. Shall I tell you what it is? Not to torment yourself.’
“如果我知道依赖它，我就关心。我要告诉你那是什么吗？不要折磨自己。

‘Not to torment you, I suppose you mean.’
“我想你的意思是不是为了折磨你。”

‘You can’t do that; I’m proof. Take things more easily. Don’t ask yourself so much whether this or that is good for you. Don’t question your conscience so much—it will get out of tune like a strummed piano. Keep it for great occasions. Don’t try so much to form your character—it’s like trying to pull open a tight, tender young rose. Live as you like best, and your character will take care of itself. Most things are good for you; the exceptions are very rare, and a comfortable income’s not one of them.’ Ralph paused, smiling; Isabel had listened quickly. ‘You’ve too much power of thoughtabove all too much conscience,’ Ralph added. ‘It’s out of all reason, the number of things you think wrong. Put back your watch. Diet your fever. Spread your wings; rise above the ground. It’s never wrong to do that.’
‘你不能那样做；我就是证明。让事情变得更容易。不要过多地问自己这个或那个是否对你有好处。别太质疑你的良心——它会像弹奏的钢琴一样走调。保留它以备重要场合使用。不要太努力地塑造你的性格——这就像试图拉开一朵紧实、嫩嫩的玫瑰。按照你最喜欢的方式生活，你的性格就会照顾好自己。大多数事情对你来说都是有好处的；例外情况非常罕见，可观的收入也不属于其中之一。”拉尔夫停了下来，微笑着；伊莎贝尔听得很快。 “你有太多的思想力量，尤其是太多的良心，”拉尔夫补充道。 ‘这是毫无理由的，你认为错误的事情太多了。把手表放回去。发烧时注意饮食。展开你的翅膀;升到地面以上。这样做永远不会错。

She had listened eagerly, as I say; and it was her nature to understand quickly. ‘I wonder if you appreciate what you say. If you do, you take a great responsibility.’
正如我所说，她热切地听着。她的本性就是很快就能理解。 ‘我想知道你是否欣赏你所说的话。如果你这样做了，你就承担了很大的责任。

‘You frighten me a little, but I think I’m right,’ said Ralph, persisting in cheer.
“你让我有点害怕，但我想我是对的，”拉尔夫继续高兴地说。

‘All the same what you say is very true,’ Isabel pursued. ‘You could say nothing more true. I’m absorbed in myself—I look at life too much as a doctor’s prescription. Why indeed should we perpetually be thinking whether things are good for us, as if we were patients lying in a hospital? Why should I be so afraid of not doing right? As if it mattered to the world whether I do right or wrong!’
“尽管如此，你说的是真的，”伊莎贝尔继续说道。 “你说得再真实不过了。我全神贯注于自己——我把生活视为医生的处方。为什么我们要永远思考事情是否对我们有利，就好像我们是躺在医院里的病人一样？为什么我要如此害怕做得不对？好像我做对还是错对世界都很重要！”

‘You’re a capital person to advise,’ said Ralph; ‘you take the wind out of my sails!’
“你是一个值得提供建议的人，”拉尔夫说。 “你让我的风帆不再有风了！”

She looked at him as if she had not heard him—though she was following out the train of reflexion which he himself had kindled. ‘I try to care more about the world than about myself—but I always come back to myself. It’s because I’m afraid.’ She stopped; her voice had trembled a little. ‘Yes, I’m afraid; I can’t tell you. A large fortune means freedom, and I’m afraid of that. It’s such a fine thing, and one should make such a good use of it. If one shouldn’t one would be ashamed. And one must keep thinking; it’s a constant effort. I’m not sure it’s not a greater happiness to be powerless.’
她看着他，好像没有听到他说话一样——尽管她正在追随他自己引发的一系列反应。 “我试着更多地关心世界而不是自己——但我总是会回到自己身上。 “因为我害怕。”她停了下来。她的声音有点颤抖。 “是的，我害怕；”我不能告诉你。大量的财富意味着自由，而我对此感到害怕。这是一件好事，人们应该好好利用它。如果一个人不应该这样做，就会感到羞愧。人必须不断思考；这是一个持续的努力。我不确定无能为力不是一种更大的幸福。

‘For weak people I’ve no doubt it’s a greater happiness. For weak people the effort not to be contemptible must be great.’
“对于弱者来说，我毫不怀疑这是更大的幸福。对于弱者来说，不被轻视的努力必须是巨大的。

‘And how do you know I’m not weak?’ Isabel asked.
“你怎么知道我不软弱？”伊莎贝尔问道。

‘Ah,’ Ralph answered with a flush that the girl noticed, ‘if you are I’m awfully sold!’
“啊，”拉尔夫被女孩注意到了，脸红了，“如果你是的话，我就被卖了！”

The charm of the Mediterranean coast only deepened for our heroine on acquaintance, for it was the threshold of Italy, the gate of admirations. Italy, as yet imperfectly seen and felt, stretched before her as a land of promise, a land in which a love of the beautiful might be comforted by endless knowledge. Whenever she strolled upon the shore with her cousin—and she was the companion of his daily walk—she looked across the sea, with longing eyes, to where she knew that Genoa lay. She was glad to pause, however, on the edge of this larger adventure; there was such a thrill even in the preliminary hovering. It affected her moreover as a peaceful interlude, as a hush of the drum and fife in a career which she had little warrant as yet for regarding as agitated, but which nevertheless she was constantly picturing to herself by the light of her hopes, her fears, her fancies, her ambitions, her predilections, and which reflected these subjective accidents in a manner sufficiently dramatic. Madame Merle had predicted to Mrs. Touchett that after their young friend had put her hand into her pocket half a dozen times she would be reconciled to the idea that it had been filled by a munificent uncle; and the event justified, as it had so often justified before, that lady’s perspicacity. Ralph Touchett had praised his cousin for being morally inflammable, that is for being quick to take a hint that was meant as good advice. His advice had perhaps helped the matter; she had at any rate before leaving San Remo grown used to feeling rich. The consciousness in question found a proper place in rather a dense little group of ideas that she had about herself, and often it was by no means the least agreeable. It took perpetually for granted a thousand good intentions. She lost herself in a maze of visions; the fine things to be done by a rich, independent, generous girl who took a large human view of occasions and obligations were sublime in the mass. Her fortune therefore became to her mind a part of her better self; it gave her importance, gave her even, to her own imagination, a certain ideal beauty. What it did for her in the imagination of others is another affair, and on this point we must also touch in time. The visions I have just spoken of were mixed with other debates. Isabel liked better to think of the future than of the past; but at times, as she listened to the murmur of the Mediterranean waves, her glance took a backward flight. It rested upon two figures which, in spite of increasing distance, were still sufficiently salient; they were recognizable without difficulty as those of Caspar Goodwood and Lord Warburton. It was strange how quickly these images of energy had fallen into the background of our young lady’s life. It was in her disposition at all times to lose faith in the reality of absent things; she could summon back her faith, in case of need, with an effort, but the effort was often painful even when the reality had been pleasant. The past was apt to look dead and its revival rather to show the livid light of a judgement-day. The girl moreover was not prone to take for granted that she herself lived in the mind of others—she had not the fatuity to believe she left indelible traces. She was capable of being wounded by the discovery that she had been forgotten; but of all liberties the one she herself found sweetest was the liberty to forget. She had not given her last shilling, sentimentally speaking, either to Caspar Goodwood or to Lord Warburton, and yet couldn’t but feel them appreciably in debt to her. She had of course reminded herself that she was to hear from Mr. Goodwood again; but this was not to be for another year and a half, and in that time a great many things might happen. She had indeed failed to say to herself that her American suitor might find some other girl more comfortable to woo; because, though it was certain many other girls would prove so, she had not the smallest belief that this merit would attract him. But she reflected that she herself might know the humiliation of change, might really, for that matter, come to the end of the things that were not Caspar (even though there appeared so many of them), and find rest in those very elements of his presence which struck her now as impediments to the finer respiration. It was conceivable that these impediments should some day prove a sort of blessing in disguise—a clear and quiet harbour enclosed by a brave granite breakwater. But that day could only come in its order, and she couldn’t wait for it with folded hands. That Lord Warburton should continue to cherish her image seemed to her more than a noble humility or an enlightened pride ought to wish to reckon with. She had so definitely undertaken to preserve no record of what had passed between them that a corresponding effort on his own part would be eminently just. This was not, as it may seem, merely a theory tinged with sarcasm. Isabel candidly believed that his lordship would, in the usual phrase, get over his disappointment. He had been deeply affected—this she believed, and she was still capable of deriving pleasure from the belief; but it was absurd that a man both so intelligent and so honourably dealt with should cultivate a scar out of proportion to any wound. Englishmen liked moreover to be comfortable, said Isabel, and there could be little comfort for Lord Warburton, in the long run, in brooding over a self-sufficient American girl who had been but a casual acquaintance. She flattered herself that, should she hear from one day to another that he had married some young woman of his own country who had done more to deserve him, she should receive the news without a pang even of surprise. It would have proved that he believed she was firm—which was what she wished to seem to him. That alone was grateful to her pride.
地中海沿岸的魅力对我们的女主人公来说只会加深，因为它是意大利的门槛，是倾慕之门。意大利，在她的视野和感受上还不够完美，在她面前展现为一片充满希望的土地，在这片土地上，对美丽的热爱可以得到无尽的知识的安慰。每当她和她的表弟在岸边漫步时——她是他每天散步的同伴——她就会用渴望的目光望向大海对面，她知道热那亚所在的地方。然而，她很高兴在这场更大的冒险的边缘停下来。即使在最初的悬停中也有如此的兴奋。此外，这对她来说是一段平静的插曲，是她职业生涯中鼓声和横笛的寂静，她还没有理由认为这是激动人心的，但尽管如此，她仍然不断地通过她的希望和恐惧之光向自己描绘这一切。 ，她的幻想，她的野心，她的偏好，并以足够戏剧性的方式反映了这些主观事件。梅尔夫人曾向图切特夫人预言，在他们的年轻朋友将她的手伸进口袋六次之后，她会接受这样的想法：那是由一位慷慨的叔叔来填补的。这件事证明了这位女士的洞察力，就像以前经常证明的那样。拉尔夫·图切特曾称赞他的表弟在道德上是火爆的，也就是说，他很快就接受了本应是好建议的暗示。他的建议也许对解决这个问题有所帮助。无论如何，在离开圣雷莫之前，她已经习惯了富有的感觉。所讨论的意识在她对自己的一小部分相当密集的想法中找到了合适的位置，而且通常绝不是最不令人愉快的。一千个善意永远被视为理所当然。 她迷失在幻象的迷宫中。一个富有、独立、慷慨的女孩，以人性的眼光看待场合和义务，所做的好事在大众中是崇高的。因此，在她看来，她的财富成了她更好的自我的一部分。它赋予了她重要性，甚至赋予了她自己想象中的某种理想的美。在别人的想象中，她的所作所为是另一回事，在这一点上我们也必须及时触及。我刚才谈到的愿景与其他辩论混合在一起。伊莎贝尔更喜欢思考未来而不是过去。但有时，当她聆听地中海海浪的潺潺声时，她的目光会向后飞去。它坐落在两个人物身上，尽管距离越来越远，但仍然足够显眼。他们很容易被认出是卡斯帕·古德伍德和沃伯顿勋爵的作品。奇怪的是，这些能量的图像很快就融入了我们年轻女士生活的背景中。她总是对不存在的事物的现实失去信心。在需要的时候，她可以通过努力重新唤起她的信仰，但这种努力往往是痛苦的，即使现实是愉快的。过去往往看起来已经死了，而它的复兴却呈现出审判日的黯淡光芒。而且，这个女孩不会想当然地认为自己活在别人的心里——她不会愚蠢地相信自己留下了不可磨灭的痕迹。当她发现自己被遗忘时，她可能会受到伤害。但在所有的自由中，她自己觉得最甜蜜的就是忘记的自由。从感情上来说，她没有把最后一先令给卡斯帕·古德伍德或沃伯顿勋爵，但又不得不感到他们欠她一笔钱。 她当然提醒自己，她会再次收到古德伍德先生的来信。但这还需要一年半的时间，在那段时间里可能会发生很多事情。她确实没有对自己说，她的美国追求者可能会找到其他更容易追求的女孩；因为，虽然可以肯定许多其他女孩会证明这一点，但她一点也不相信这种优点会吸引他。但她反思说，她自己可能知道改变的耻辱，就这一点来说，可能真的会结束那些不属于卡斯帕的事情（尽管出现了很多这样的事情），并在这些元素中找到休息。他的存在现在让她感到震惊，因为他的存在阻碍了更好的呼吸。可以想象，这些障碍有一天会被证明是因祸得福——一个被勇敢的花岗岩防波堤包围的清澈而安静的港口。但那一天只能按部就班地到来，她已经等不及了。在她看来，沃伯顿勋爵应该继续珍惜自己的形象，这不仅仅是一种崇高的谦逊或一种开明的骄傲。她如此明确地承诺不保留他们之间发生的事情的任何记录，因此他自己的相应努力将是非常公正的。这并不像看上去那样仅仅是一种带有讽刺意味的理论。伊莎贝尔坦率地相信，用通常的话说，大人会克服他的失望。他受到了深深的影响——她相信这一点，而且她仍然能够从这种信念中获得快乐；但荒唐的是，一个既聪明又受人尊敬的人竟然留下了与任何伤口都不成比例的伤疤。 伊莎贝尔说，英国人还喜欢安逸，从长远来看，沃伯顿勋爵对一个自给自足的美国女孩深思熟虑，而她只是一个偶然的熟人，这对沃伯顿勋爵来说并没有什么安慰。她自以为，如果她日复一日地听到他娶了自己国家的一位年轻女子为妻，而她为配得上他所做的更多努力，她在收到这个消息时应该不会感到痛苦，甚至不会感到惊讶。这将证明他相信她是坚定的——这正是她希望在他看来的样子。仅此一点就足以感谢她的骄傲。

Chapter 22
第22章

On one of the first days of May, some six months after old Mr. Touchett’s death, a small group that might have been described by a painter as composing well was gathered in one of the many rooms of an ancient villa crowning an olive-muffled hill outside of the Roman gate of Florence. The villa was a long, rather blank-looking structure, with the far-projecting roof which Tuscany loves and which, on the hills that encircle Florence, when considered from a distance, make so harmonious a rectangle with the straight, dark, definite cypresses that usually rise in groups of three or four beside it. The house had a front upon a little grassy, empty, rural piazza which occupied a part of the hill-top; and this front, pierced with a few windows in irregular relations and furnished with a stone bench lengthily adjusted to the base of the structure and useful as a lounging-place to one or two persons wearing more or less of that air of undervalued merit which in Italy, for some reason or other, always gracefully invests any one who confidently assumes a perfectly passive attitude—this antique, solid, weather-worn, yet imposing front had a somewhat incommunicative character. It was the mask, not the face of the house. It had heavy lids, but no eyes; the house in reality looked another way—looked off behind, into splendid openness and the range of the afternoon light. In that quarter the villa overhung the slope of its hill and the long valley of the Arno, hazy with Italian colour. It had a narrow garden, in the manner of a terrace, productive chiefly of tangles of wild roses and other old stone benches, mossy and sun-warmed. The parapet of the terrace was just the height to lean upon, and beneath it the ground declined into the vagueness of olive-crops and vineyards. It is not, however, with the outside of the place that we are concerned; on this bright morning of ripened spring its tenants had reason to prefer the shady side of the wall. The windows of the ground-floor, as you saw them from the piazza, were, in their noble proportions, extremely architectural; but their function seemed less to offer communication with the world than to defy the world to look in. They were massively cross-barred, and placed at such a height that curiosity, even on tiptoe, expired before it reached them. In an apartment lighted by a row of three of these jealous apertures—one of the several distinct apartments into which the villa was divided and which were mainly occupied by foreigners of random race long resident in Florence—a gentleman was seated in company with a young girl and two good sisters from a religious house. The room was, however, less sombre than our indications may have represented, for it had a wide, high door, which now stood open into the tangled garden behind; and the tall iron lattices admitted on occasion more than enough of the Italian sunshine. It was moreover a seat of ease, indeed of luxury, telling of arrangements subtly studied and refinements frankly proclaimed, and containing a variety of those faded hangings of damask and tapestry, those chests and cabinets of carved and time-polished oak, those angular specimens of pictorial art in frames as pedantically primitive, those perverse looking relics of mediaeval brass and pottery, of which Italy has long been the not quite exhausted storehouse. These things kept terms with articles of modern furniture in which large allowance had been made for a lounging generation; it was to be noticed that all the chairs were deep and well padded and that much space was occupied by a writing-table of which the ingenious perfection bore the stamp of London and the nineteenth century. There were books in profusion and magazines and newspapers, and a few small, odd, elaborate pictures, chiefly in water-colour. One of these productions stood on a drawing-room easel before which, at the moment we begin to be concerned with her, the young girl I have mentioned had placed herself. She was looking at the picture in silence.
五月初的一天，也就是老图切特先生去世大约六个月后，一小群人聚集在一座古老别墅的一个房间里，房间里有一个橄榄色的围巾，上面可能被画家形容为构图很好。佛罗伦萨罗马门外的小山。别墅是一栋长长的、看上去相当空旷的建筑，有着托斯卡纳人喜爱的突出的屋顶，在环绕佛罗伦萨的山上，从远处看，它与笔直、深色、明确的柏树形成如此和谐的长方形。通常三四个人一组在它旁边升起。房子的正面是一个小草坪，空荡荡的乡村广场，占据了山顶的一部分。前面，开有几扇不规则关系的窗户，并配有一张石凳，长长地调整到建筑物的底部，可作为一两个人的休息场所，或多或少带有被低估的优点，出于某种原因，意大利总是优雅地对待任何一个自信地采取完全被动态度的人——这个古老、坚固、饱经风霜、但威严的门面有一种有点沉默寡言的性格。这是面具，而不是房子的脸。它有厚重的眼睑，但没有眼睛；现实中的房子看起来是另一个样子——从后面看去，看到的是壮丽的开放和午后阳光的范围。在那个地区，别墅悬在山坡上和阿尔诺河的长河谷上，笼罩着意大利的色彩。它有一个狭窄的花园，类似露台，主要种植着野玫瑰和其他古老的石凳，长满青苔，阳光温暖。露台的护栏高度刚好可以倚靠，下面的地面隐隐约约地隐没在橄榄树和葡萄园之中。 然而，我们关心的并不是这个地方的外部；而是这个地方的外部。在这个春光明媚的早晨，房客们有理由选择墙的阴凉面。一楼的窗户，正如你从广场上看到的那样，以其高贵的比例，极具建筑风格。但它们的功能似乎与其说是与世界交流，不如说是反抗世界的审视。它们被巨大的交叉栅栏包围，并且被放置在如此高的高度，以至于即使是踮起脚尖，好奇心也会在到达它们之前就消失了。在一间被一排三个令人嫉妒的孔照亮的公寓里——别墅被分成几个不同的公寓之一，这些公寓主要由长期居住在佛罗伦萨的不同种族的外国人居住——一位绅士和一位年轻的人坐在一起。来自宗教之家的女孩和两个好姐妹。然而，这个房间并不像我们所看到的那样阴暗，因为它有一扇又宽又高的门，现在通向后面错综复杂的花园。高高的铁格子有时足以让意大利的阳光透进来。此外，它还是一个舒适的座位，实际上是奢华的，讲述着精心研究的安排和坦率地宣称的精致，并包含各种褪色的锦缎和挂毯挂毯，那些经过雕刻和时间抛光的橡木制成的箱子和橱柜，那些棱角分明的标本画框里的绘画艺术显得迂腐原始，那些看起来乖张的中世纪黄铜和陶器遗迹，意大利长期以来一直是这些遗迹的不竭宝库。 这些东西与现代家具保持一致，现代家具为闲逛的一代人提供了大量的空间。值得注意的是，所有的椅子都很深，垫子也很好，大部分空间都被一张写字台占据，这张写字台的巧妙完美带有伦敦和十九世纪的印记。里面有大量的书籍、杂志和报纸，还有一些小而奇怪的精致图片，主要是水彩画。其中一件作品放在客厅的画架上，在我们开始关心她的那一刻，我提到的那个年轻女孩已经把自己放在了画架前。她静静地看着照片。

Silence—absolute silence—had not fallen upon her companions; but their talk had an appearance of embarrassed continuity. The two good sisters had not settled themselves in their respective chairs; their attitude expressed a final reserve and their faces showed the glaze of prudence. They were plain, ample, mild-featured women, with a kind of business-like modesty to which the impersonal aspect of their stiffened linen and of the serge that draped them as if nailed on frames gave an advantage. One of them, a person of a certain age, in spectacles, with a fresh complexion and a full cheek, had a more discriminating manner than her colleague, as well as the responsibility of their errand, which apparently related to the young girl. This object of interest wore her hat—an ornament of extreme simplicity and not at variance with her plain muslin gown, too short for her years, though it must already have been ‘let out.’ The gentleman who might have been supposed to be entertaining the two nuns was perhaps conscious of the difficulties of his function, it being in its way as arduous to converse with the very meek as with the very mighty. At the same time he was clearly much occupied with their quiet charge, and while she turned her back to him his eyes rested gravely on her slim, small figure. He was a man of forty, with a high but well-shaped head, on which the hair, still dense, but prematurely grizzled, had been cropped close. He had a fine, narrow, extremely modelled and composed face, of which the only fault was just this effect of its running a trifle too much to points; an appearance to which the shape of the beard contributed not a little. This beard, cut in the manner of the portraits of the sixteenth century and surmounted by a fair moustache, of which the ends had a romantic upward flourish, gave its wearer a foreign, traditionary look and suggested that he was a gentleman who studied style. His conscious, curious eyes, however, eyes at once vague and penetrating, intelligent and hard, expressive of the observer as well as of the dreamer, would have assured you that he studied it only within well-chosen limits, and that in so far as he sought it he found it. You would have been much at a loss to determine his original clime and country; he had none of the superficial signs that usually render the answer to this question an insipidly easy one. If he had English blood in his veins it had probably received some French or Italian commixture; but he suggested, fine gold coin as he was, no stamp nor emblem of the common mintage that provides for general circulation; he was the elegant complicated medal struck off for a special occasion. He had a light, lean, rather languid-looking figure, and was apparently neither tall nor short. He was dressed as a man dresses who takes little other trouble about it than to have no vulgar things.
沉默——绝对的沉默——并没有降临在她的同伴们身上；他们没有听到任何声音。但他们的谈话显得令人尴尬地连贯起来。两个好姐妹还没有在各自的椅子上坐下来。他们的态度表现出最后的保留，脸上流露出谨慎的表情。她们都是相貌朴素、身材魁梧、五官温和的女性，有着一种公事公办的谦逊，她们身上硬挺的亚麻布和像钉在框架上一样的哔叽的非个人化的一面给她们带来了优势。其中一人，有一定年纪，戴着眼镜，肤色清新，脸颊饱满，比她的同事更有辨识度，还有他们的差事责任，显然与少女有关。这个感兴趣的对象戴着她的帽子——一种极其简单的装饰品，与她朴素的平纹细布长袍并不冲突，虽然它肯定已经被“放出去了”，但对于她的年龄来说太短了。两位修女也许意识到了他的职责的困难，与非常温和的人交谈就像与非常强大的人交谈一样困难。与此同时，他显然正忙着他们安静的冲锋，当她转过身背对着他时，他的目光严肃地落在她苗条娇小的身材上。他是个四十岁的男人，头很高，但形状很好，头发仍然浓密，但过早花白，已经剪得很短了。他有一张精致、窄小的脸，非常有型又沉稳，唯一的缺点就是脸型有点太尖了。胡须的形状对这种外貌起了很大的作用。 这种胡须按照十六世纪肖像的方式修剪，上面有金色的小胡子，胡须的末端浪漫地向上翘起，给佩戴者一种外国的、传统的外观，暗示他是一位研究风格的绅士。然而，他那双有意识、好奇的眼睛，既模糊又具有洞察力，既聪明又冷酷，既有观察者的表情，也有梦想家的表情，可以向你保证，他只是在精心选择的范围内研究它，而且到目前为止当他寻找它时，他找到了它。你可能会非常不知所措，无法确定他原来的气候和国家。他没有任何表面迹象，这些迹象通常会使这个问题的答案变得平淡无奇。如果他的血管里流淌着英国人的血液，那么他的血液中很可能也混有法国或意大利的血统。但他建议，尽管金币是优质金币，但没有提供供一般流通使用的普通铸币的印章或标志。他是为特殊场合而摘下的优雅复杂的奖章。他身材轻盈，瘦削，看上去有些慵懒，看上去不高也不矮。他穿得像个男人，除了不穿任何粗俗的东西外，几乎没有其他麻烦。

‘Well, my dear, what do you think of it?’ he asked the young girl. He used the Italian tongue, and used it with perfect ease; but this would not have convinced you he was Italian.
“好吧，亲爱的，你觉得怎么样？”他问年轻女孩。他使用意大利语，而且使用得非常自如。但这不会让你相信他是意大利人。

The child turned her head earnestly to one side and the other. ‘It’s very pretty, papa. Did you make it yourself?’
孩子认真地将头转向一侧和另一侧。 ‘这非常漂亮，爸爸。你自己做的吗？

‘Certainly I made it. Don’t you think I’m clever?’
‘当然我做到了。你不觉得我很聪明吗？

‘Yes, papa, very clever; I also have learned to make pictures.’ And she turned round and showed a small, fair face painted with a fixed and intensely sweet smile.
“是的，爸爸，非常聪明；我还学会了画画。”说着她转过身来，露出一张白皙的小脸，脸上挂着一抹坚定而甜蜜的笑容。

‘You should have brought me a specimen of your powers.’
“你应该给我带来你力量的样本。”

‘I’ve brought a great many; they’re in my trunk.’
“我带来了很多；它们在我的行李箱里。

‘She draws very—very carefully,’ the elder of the nuns remarked, speaking in French.
“她画得非常——非常仔细，”修女中的长老用法语说道。

‘I’m glad to hear it. Is it you who have instructed her?’
‘我很高兴听到这个消息。是你指使她的吗？

‘Happily no,’ said the good sister, blushing a little. ‘Ce n’est pas ma partie. I teach nothing; I leave that to those who are wiser. We’ve an excellent drawing-master, Mr.—Mr.—what is his name?’ she asked of her companion.
“幸好没有，”好姐妹说，脸有点红。这不是一场派对。我什么也不教；我把这个留给那些更聪明的人。我们有一位出色的绘画大师，先生——先生——他叫什么名字？”她问她的同伴。

Her companion looked about at the carpet. ‘It’s a German name,’ she said in Italian, as if it needed to be translated.
她的同伴环顾四周的地毯。 “这是一个德国名字，”她用意大利语说，好像需要翻译一样。

‘Yes,’ the other went on. ‘he’s a German, and we’ve had him many years.’
“是的，”另一个人继续说道。 “他是德国人，我们已经拥有他很多年了。”

The young girl, who was not heeding the conversation, had wandered away to the open door of the large room and stood looking into the garden. ‘And you, my sister, are French,’ said the gentleman.
年轻的女孩没有在意他们的谈话，她走到大房间开着的门前，站在那里看着花园。 “我的妹妹，你是法国人，”这位绅士说道。

‘Yes, sir,’ the visitor gently replied. ‘I speak to the pupils in my own tongue. I know no other. But we have sisters of other countriesEnglish, German, Irish. They all speak their proper language.’
“是的，先生。”来访者温和地回答道。 “我用自己的语言对学生说话。我不知道其他人。但我们还有其他国家的姐妹：英国人、德国人、爱尔兰人。他们都说自己合适的语言。

The gentleman gave a smile. ‘Has my daughter been under the care of one of the Irish ladies?’ And then, as he saw that his visitors suspected a joke, though failing to understand it, ‘You’re very complete,’ he instantly added.
绅士微笑道。 “我的女儿是在一位爱尔兰女士的照顾下吗？”然后，当他看到他的来访者怀疑是在开玩笑时，尽管他无法理解，“你很完整，”他立即补充道。

‘Oh, yes, we’re complete. We’ve everything, and everything’s of the best.’
‘噢，是的，我们已经完成了。我们拥有一切，而且一切都是最好的。

‘We have gymnastics,’ the Italian sister ventured to remark. ‘But not dangerous.’
“我们有体操，”意大利妹妹大胆地说。 “但并不危险。”

‘I hope not. Is that your branch?’ A question which provoked much candid hilarity on the part of the two ladies; on the subsidence of which their entertainer, glancing at his daughter, remarked that she had grown.
'我希望不是。那是你的分店吗？”这个问题引起了两位女士的欢笑。当这一切平息下来时，他们的表演者看了一眼他的女儿，说她长大了。

‘Yes, but I think she has finished. She’ll remain—not big,’ said the French sister.
“是的，但我认为她已经完成了。她会留下来——不会很大，”法国妹妹说。

‘I’m not sorry. I prefer women like books—very good and not too long. But I know,’ the gentleman said, ‘no particular reason why my child should be short.’
'我不遗憾。我更喜欢女人喜欢的书——很好，而且不太长。但我知道，”这位先生说，“没有什么特别的理由说明我的孩子应该矮个子。”

The nun gave a temperate shrug, as if to intimate that such things might be beyond our knowledge. ‘She’s in very good health; that’s the best thing.’
修女温和地耸耸肩，仿佛暗示这些事情可能超出了我们的了解。 “她的健康状况非常好；这是最好的事情。

‘Yes, she looks sound.’ And the young girl’s father watched her a moment. ‘What do you see in the garden?’ he asked in French.
“是的，她看起来很健康。”小女孩的父亲看了她一会儿。 “你在花园里看到什么？”他用法语问道。

‘I see many flowers,’ she replied in a sweet, small voice and with an accent as good as his own.
“我看到很多花，”她用甜美的小声音回答，带着和他一样的口音。

‘Yes, but not many good ones. However, such as they are, go out and gather some for ces dames.’
'是的，但好的不多。然而，尽管如此，还是出去为贵妇们收集一些吧。

The child turned to him with her smile heightened by pleasure. ‘May I truly?’
孩子转向他，笑容因喜悦而加深。 “我真的可以吗？”

‘Ah, when I tell you,’ said her father.
“啊，当我告诉你的时候，”她父亲说。

The girl glanced at the elder of the nuns. ‘May I, truly, ma mere?’
少女看了一眼修女中的长老。 “我真的可以吗，妈妈？”

‘Obey monsieur your father, my child,’ said the sister, blushing again.
“听从你父亲先生的命令，我的孩子，”妹妹说，脸又红了。

The child, satisfied with this authorization, descended from the threshold and was presently lost to sight. ‘You don’t spoil them,’ said her father gaily.
孩子对这一授权感到满意，从门槛上走下来，很快就消失在人们的视线中。 “你没有宠坏它们，”她父亲高兴地说。

‘For everything they must ask leave. That’s our system. Leave is freely granted, but they must ask it.’
‘对于一切事情，他们都必须请假。这就是我们的系统。休假是免费的，但他们必须提出要求。

‘Oh, I don’t quarrel with your system; I’ve no doubt it’s excellent. I sent you my daughter to see what you’d make of her. I had faith.’
‘哦，我不反对你的系统；我毫不怀疑它非常棒。我把我的女儿派给你，看看你会怎样对待她。我有信心。

‘One must have faith,’ the sister blandly rejoined, gazing through her spectacles.
“人必须有信仰，”姐姐透过眼镜凝视着，温和地回答道。

‘Well, has my faith been rewarded? What have you made of her?’
‘那么，我的信仰得到了回报吗？你对她有什么看法？

The sister dropped her eyes a moment. ‘A good Christian, monsieur.’
妹妹垂下眼帘。 “一位好基督徒，先生。”

Her host dropped his eyes as well; but it was probable that the movement had in each case a different spring. ‘Yes, and what else?’
她的主人也垂下眼帘。但很可能每种情况下的机芯都有不同的弹簧。 “是的，还有什么？”

He watched the lady from the convent, probably thinking she would say that a good Christian was everything; but for all her simplicity she was not so crude as that. ‘A charming young lady—a real little woman—a daughter in whom you will have nothing but contentment.’
他看着修道院里的那位女士，可能以为她会说，一个好的基督徒就是一切；但她却说，一个好的基督徒就是一切。但尽管她很单纯，但她并没有那么粗鲁。 “一位迷人的年轻女士——一位真正的小女人——一个让你心满意足的女儿。”

‘She seems to me very gentille,’ said the father. ‘She’s really pretty.’
“我觉得她很绅士，”父亲说。 “她真的很漂亮。”

‘She’s perfect. She has no faults.’
‘她很完美。她没有缺点。

‘She never had any as a child, and I’m glad you have given her none.’
“她小时候从未有过任何东西，我很高兴你没有给她任何东西。”

‘We love her too much,’ said the spectacled sister with dignity. ‘And as for faults, how can we give what we have not? Le couvent n’est pas comme le monde, monsieur. She’s our daughter, as you may say. We’ve had her since she was so small.’
“我们太爱她了。”戴眼镜的姐姐尊严地说。 ‘至于过错，我们怎么能给予我们没有的东西呢？ Le couvent n'est pas comme le monde，先生。正如你可能会说的，她是我们的女儿。从她很小的时候我们就养了她。

‘Of all those we shall lose this year she’s the one we shall miss most,’ the younger woman murmured deferentially.
“在今年我们将失去的所有人中，她是我们最想念的人，”年轻女子恭敬地低声说道。

‘Ah, yes, we shall talk long of her,’ said the other. ‘We shall hold her up to the new ones.’ And at this the good sister appeared to find her spectacles dim; while her companion, after fumbling a moment, presently drew forth a pocket-handkerchief of durable texture.
“啊，是的，我们要好好谈谈她，”另一个说。 “我们会让她接受新的。”说到这里，好姐妹似乎发现她的眼镜模糊了。她的同伴摸索了一会儿，随即掏出了一块质地耐用的手帕。

‘It’s not certain you’ll lose her; nothing’s settled yet,’ their host rejoined quickly; not as if to anticipate their tears, but in the tone of a man saying what was most agreeable to himself.
“不确定你会失去她；但你一定会失去她。”一切还没有定下来。”他们的主人很快又加入了进来。不像是预料到他们会流泪，而是用一个男人的语气说着自己最满意的话。

‘We should be very happy to believe that. Fifteen is very young to leave us.’
‘我们应该很高兴相信这一点。十五岁离开我们还太年轻。”

‘Oh,’ exclaimed the gentleman with more vivacity than he had yet used, ‘it is not I who wish to take her away. I wish you could keep her always!’
“哦，”那位先生大声喊道，语气比以前更加活泼，“不是我想带她走的。我希望你能永远保留她！

‘Ah, monsieur,’ said the elder sister, smiling and getting up, ‘good as she is, she’s made for the world. Le monde y gagnera.’
“啊，先生，”姐姐微笑着站起身来，“尽管她很好，但她是为这个世界而生的。” 《世界与加涅拉》。

‘If all the good people were hidden away in convents how would the world get on?’ her companion softly enquired, rising also.
“如果所有好人都藏在修道院里，世界会怎样？”她的同伴也站了起来，轻声问道。

This was a question of a wider bearing than the good woman apparently supposed; and the lady in spectacles took a harmonizing view by saying comfortably: ‘Fortunately there are good people everywhere.’
这是一个比这位好女人显然想象的更广泛的问题。戴眼镜的女士也很和谐地说道：“还好到处都有好人。”

‘If you’re going there will be two less here,’ her host remarked gallantly.
“如果你去的话，这里就会少两个。”她的主人殷勤地说道。

For this extravagant sally his simple visitors had no answer, and they simply looked at each other in decent deprecation; but their confusion was speedily covered by the return of the young girl with two large bunches of roses—one of them all white, the other red.
对于这种奢侈的举动，他那些单纯的访客没有任何反应，他们只是以一种得体的蔑视态度互相看着对方。但很快，他们的困惑就被年轻女孩带着两大束玫瑰的归来所掩盖了——一束是白色的，另一束是红色的。

‘I give you your choice, Mamman Catherine,’ said the child. ‘It’s only the colour that’s different, Mamman Justine; there are just as many roses in one bunch as in the other.’
“我给你选择，凯瑟琳妈妈，”孩子说。 “只是颜色不同而已，贾斯汀妈妈；一束玫瑰和另一束玫瑰一样多。”

The two sisters turned to each other, smiling and hesitating, with ‘Which will you take?’ and ‘No, it’s for you to choose.’
两姐妹面面相觑，微笑着，犹豫着，“你选哪个？”和“不，由你选择。”

‘I’ll take the red, thank you,’ said mother Catherine in the spectacles. I’m so red myself. They’ll comfort us on our way back to Rome.’
“我要红色，谢谢，”戴眼镜的母亲凯瑟琳说道。我自己也这么红。他们会在我们返回罗马的路上安慰我们。”

‘Ah, they won’t last,’ cried the young girl. ‘I wish I could give you something that would last!’
“啊，他们撑不了多久了，”年轻女孩喊道。 “我希望能给你一些持久的东西！”

‘You’ve given us a good memory of yourself, my daughter. That will last!’
“我的女儿，你给我们留下了美好的回忆。这会持续下去！

‘I wish nuns could wear pretty things. I would give you my blue beads,’ the child went on.
“我希望修女们能穿漂亮的衣服。我会把我的蓝色珠子给你，”孩子继续说道。

‘And do you go back to Rome to-night?’ her father enquired.
“你今晚要回罗马吗？”她父亲问道。

‘Yes, we take the train again. We’ve so much to do la-bas.’
“是的，我们又坐火车了。我们有很多事情要做。

‘Are you not tired?’
“你不累吗？”

‘We are never tired.’
“我们从不疲倦。”

‘Ah, my sister, sometimes,’ murmured the junior votaress.
“啊，我的妹妹，有时，”初级女巫低声说道。

‘Not to-day, at any rate. We have rested too well here. Que Dieu vous garde, ma fille.’
“无论如何，今天不行。”我们在这里休息得太好了。 Que Dieu vous garde，妈妈。”

Their host, while they exchanged kisses with his daughter, went forward to open the door through which they were to pass; but as he did so he gave a slight exclamation, and stood looking beyond. The door opened into a vaulted ante-chamber, as high as a chapel and paved with red tiles; and into this ante-chamber a lady had just been admitted by a servant, a lad in shabby livery, who was now ushering her toward the apartment in which our friends were grouped. The gentleman at the door, after dropping his exclamation, remained silent; in silence too the lady advanced. He gave her no further audible greeting and offered her no hand, but stood aside to let her pass into the saloon. At the threshold she hesitated. ‘Is there any one?’ she asked.
当他们与女儿互相亲吻时，主人走上前去打开他们要经过的门。但当他这么做的时候，他轻轻地惊呼了一声，然后站在那里向远处望去。门通向一个拱形的前厅，有教堂那么高，铺着红色瓷砖。一位穿着破旧制服的小伙子刚刚把一位女士带进了前厅，仆人正把她引向我们朋友们聚集的公寓。门口的绅士惊呼一声，便不再说话了。那位女士也默默地向前走去。他没有再向她打招呼，也没有向她伸出手，只是站到一边让她进入酒吧。走到门口，她犹豫了。 “有人吗？”她问道。

‘Some one you may see.’
“你可能会看到某个人。”

She went in and found herself confronted with the two nuns and their pupil, who was coming forward, between them, with a hand in the arm of each. At the sight of the new visitor they all paused, and the lady, who had also stopped, stood looking at them. The young girl gave a little soft cry:
她走进去，发现自己遇到了两位修女和她们的学生，学生走上前来，站在她们中间，每人都挽着一只手。一看到新来的客人，他们都停了下来，那位女士也停了下来，站在那儿看着他们。少女轻声叫了一声：

‘Ah, Madame Merle!’
“啊，梅尔夫人！”

The visitor had been slightly startled, but her manner the next instant was none the less gracious. ‘Yes, it’s Madame Merle, come to welcome you home.’ And she held out two hands to the girl, who immediately came up to her, presenting her forehead to be kissed. Madame Merle saluted this portion of her charming little person and then stood smiling at the two nuns. They acknowledged her smile with a decent obeisance, but permitted themselves no direct scrutiny of this imposing, brilliant woman, who seemed to bring in with her something of the radiance of the outer world.
来人微微一愣，但下一刻她的态度却依然十分和蔼。 “是的，我是梅尔夫人，欢迎您回家。”她向女孩伸出两只手，女孩立即走到她面前，伸出额头让她亲吻。梅尔夫人向她那迷人的小身材的这一部分行了个礼，然后微笑地站着，对着两位修女。他们以体面的鞠躬迎接她的微笑，但不允许自己直接审视这个气势磅礴、才华横溢的女人，她似乎带着一些外部世界的光辉。

‘These ladies have brought my daughter home, and now they return to the convent,’ the gentleman explained.
“这些女士们已经把我的女儿带回家了，现在她们又回到了修道院，”这位绅士解释道。

‘Ah, you go back to Rome? I’ve lately come from there. It’s very lovely now,’ said Madame Merle.
‘啊，你回罗马吗？我最近从那里来的。现在真是太可爱了，”梅尔夫人说。

The good sisters, standing with their hands folded into their sleeves, accepted this statement uncritically; and the master of the house asked his new visitor how long it was since she had left Rome. ‘She came to see me at the convent,’ said the young girl before the lady addressed had time to reply.
好姐妹们袖手旁观，不加批判地接受了这个说法；房子的主人问他的新访客她离开罗马多久了。 “她来修道院看我，”那位女士还没来得及回答，年轻女孩就说道。

‘I’ve been more than once, Pansy,’ Madame Merle declared. ‘Am I not your great friend in Rome?’
“我已经去过不止一次了，潘西，”梅尔夫人宣称。 “我不是你在罗马的好朋友吗？”

‘I remember the last time best,’ said Pansy, ‘because you told me I should come away.’
“我记得最清楚的是最后一次，”潘西说，“因为你告诉我我应该离开。”

‘Did you tell her that?’ the child’s father asked.
“你告诉她了吗？”孩子的父亲问道。

‘I hardly remember. I told her what I thought would please her. I’ve been in Florence a week. I hoped you would come to see me.’
“我几乎不记得了。我告诉她我认为会让她高兴的事情。我在佛罗伦萨已经一周了。我希望你能来看我。

‘I should have done so if I had known you were there. One doesn’t know such things by inspiration—though I suppose one ought. You had better sit down.’
“如果我知道你在那儿，我就应该这么做了。”一个人无法通过灵感知道这些事情——尽管我认为一个人应该知道。你最好坐下来。

These two speeches were made in a particular tone of voice—a tone half-lowered and carefully quiet, but as from habit rather than from any definite need. Madame Merle looked about her, choosing her seat. ‘You’re going to the door with these women? Let me of course not interrupt the ceremony. Je vous salue, mesdames,’ she added, in French, to the nuns, as if to dismiss them.
这两句话都是用一种特殊的语气说的——语气半压低，小心翼翼地保持安静，但这是出于习惯，而不是出于任何明确的需要。梅尔夫人环顾四周，选择了座位。 ‘你要和这些女人一起去门口吗？当然，我不要打扰仪式。 “谢谢各位，女士们，”她用法语对修女们补充道，仿佛要打发她们一样。

‘This lady’s a great friend of ours; you will have seen her at the convent,’ said their entertainer. ‘We’ve much faith in her judgement, and she’ll help me to decide whether my daughter shall return to you at the end of the holidays.’
“这位女士是我们的好朋友；你会在修道院见过她的，”他们的艺人说道。 “我们对她的判断非常有信心，她会帮助我决定我的女儿是否会在假期结束后回到你们身边。”

‘I hope you’ll decide in our favour, madame,’ the sister in spectacles ventured to remark.
“我希望您能做出对我们有利的决定，夫人。”戴眼镜的妹妹大胆地说。

‘That’s Mr. Osmond’s pleasantry; I decide nothing,’ said Madame Merle, but also as in pleasantry. ‘I believe you’ve a very good school, but Miss Osmond’s friends must remember that she’s very naturally meant for the world.’
“这是奥斯蒙德先生的客套话； “我什么也不做决定。”梅尔夫人说道，但语气也像是在开玩笑。 “我相信你们有一所非常好的学校，但奥斯蒙德小姐的朋友们必须记住，她天生就是为这个世界而生的。”

‘That’s what I’ve told monsieur,’ sister Catherine answered. ‘It’s precisely to fit her for the world,’ she murmured, glancing at Pansy, who stood, at a little distance, attentive to Madame Merle’s elegant apparel.
“我就是这么告诉先生的，”凯瑟琳妹妹回答道。 “这正是为了让她适应这个世界，”她低声说道，瞥了一眼潘西，潘西站在不远的地方，专注于梅尔夫人优雅的服装。

‘Do you hear that, Pansy? You’re very naturally meant for the world,’ said Pansy’s father.
“你听到了吗，潘西？你很自然地就注定要走向这个世界。”潘西的父亲说。

The child fixed him an instant with her pure young eyes. ‘Am I not meant for you, papa?’
孩子用她那双纯洁而年轻的眼睛凝视着他。 “我不是为你而生的吗，爸爸？”

Papa gave a quick, light laugh. ‘That doesn’t prevent it! I’m of the world, Pansy.’
爸爸轻快地笑了一声。 ‘这并不能阻止它！我属于这个世界，潘西。

‘Kindly permit us to retire,’ said sister Catherine. ‘Be good and wise and happy in any case, my daughter.’
“请允许我们退休，”妹妹凯瑟琳说。 “无论如何，要善良、明智、快乐，我的女儿。”

‘I shall certainly come back and see you,’ Pansy returned, recommencing her embraces, which were presently interrupted by Madame Merle.
“我一定会回来看你的，”潘西回答道，重新开始拥抱，但很快就被梅尔夫人打断了。

‘Stay with me, dear child,’ she said, ‘while your father takes the good ladies to the door.’
“留在我身边，亲爱的孩子，”她说，“你的父亲把好女士们带到门口。”

Pansy stared, disappointed, yet not protesting. She was evidently impregnated with the idea of submission, which was due to any one who took the tone of authority; and she was a passive spectator of the operation of her fate. ‘May I not see Mamman Catherine get into the carriage?’ she nevertheless asked very gently.
Pansy 盯着看，很失望，但没有抗议。她显然充满了屈服的想法，这是因为任何一个采取权威语气的人；她是命运运作的被动旁观者。 “我可以不让凯瑟琳妈妈上马车吗？”她仍然非常温柔地问道。

‘It would please me better if you’d remain with me,’ said Madame Merle, while Mr. Osmond and his companions, who had bowed low again to the other visitor, passed into the ante-chamber.
“如果你能留在我身边，我会更高兴。”梅尔夫人说道。奥斯蒙德先生和他的同伴们再次向另一位访客深深鞠了一躬，走进了前厅。

‘Oh yes, I’ll stay,’ Pansy answered; and she stood near Madame Merle, surrendering her little hand, which this lady took. She stared out of the window; her eyes had filled with tears.
“哦，是的，我会留下来，”潘西回答道。她站在梅尔夫人身边，交出她的小手，这位女士握住了她的手。她凝视着窗外；她的眼睛里充满了泪水。

‘I’m glad they’ve taught you to obey,’ said Madame Merle. ‘That’s what good little girls should do.’
“我很高兴他们教你服从，”梅尔夫人说。 “这才是好女孩该做的事。”

‘Oh yes, I obey very well,’ cried Pansy with soft eagerness, almost with boastfulness, as if she had been speaking of her piano-playing. And then she gave a faint, just audible sigh.
“哦，是的，我听话得很好。”潘西轻声热切地叫道，几乎带着自夸，仿佛她正在谈论她的钢琴演奏。然后她轻轻地叹了一口气。

Madame Merle, holding her hand, drew it across her own fine palm and looked at it. The gaze was critical, but it found nothing to deprecate; the child’s small hand was delicate and fair. ‘I hope they always see that you wear gloves,’ she said in a moment. ‘Little girls usually dislike them.’
梅尔夫人握住她的手，将它放在自己纤细的手掌上，看着它。那目光虽然带有批评的意味，但也没有什么可贬低的地方。孩子的小手娇嫩白皙。 “我希望他们总是看到你戴着手套，”她随即说道。 “小女孩通常不喜欢它们。”

‘I used to dislike them, but I like them now,’ the child made answer.
“我以前不喜欢它们，但现在我喜欢它们。”孩子回答道。

‘Very good, I’ll make you a present of a dozen.’
“很好，我送你一打礼物。”

‘I thank you very much. What colours will they be?’ Pansy demanded with interest.
'我非常感谢你。它们会是什么颜色？”潘西饶有兴趣地问道。

Madame Merle meditated. ‘Useful colours.’
梅尔夫人沉思着。 “有用的颜色。”

‘But very pretty?’
“但是很漂亮吗？”

‘Are you very fond of pretty things?’
“你很喜欢漂亮的东西吗？”

‘Yes; but—but not too fond,’ said Pansy with a trace of asceticism.
'是的;但是——但是不太喜欢，”潘西带着一丝禁欲主义说道。

‘Well, they won’t be too pretty,’ Madame Merle returned with a laugh. She took the child’s other hand and drew her nearer; after which, looking at her a moment, ‘Shall you miss mother Catherine?’ she went on.
“嗯，它们不会太漂亮，”梅尔夫人笑着回答。她握住孩子的另一只手，将她拉近一些。然后，她看了她一会儿，“你想念凯瑟琳妈妈吗？”她继续说道。

‘Yes—when I think of her.’
“是的——当我想起她的时候。”

‘Try then not to think of her. Perhaps some day,’ added Madame Merle, ‘you’ll have another mother.’
“那就尽量不要去想她。也许有一天，”梅尔夫人补充道，“你会有另一个母亲。”

‘I don’t think that’s necessary,’ Pansy said, repeating her little soft conciliatory sigh. ‘I had more than thirty mothers at the convent.’
“我认为没有必要，”潘西说道，重复着她轻柔的安抚叹息。 “修道院里有三十多位母亲。”

Her father’s step sounded again in the ante-chamber, and Madame Merle got up, releasing the child. Mr. Osmond came in and closed the door; then, without looking at Madame Merle, he pushed one or two chairs back into their places. His visitor waited a moment for him to speak, watching him as he moved about. Then at last she said: ‘I hoped you’d have come to Rome. I thought it possible you’d have wished yourself to fetch Pansy away.’
前厅里再次响起了父亲的脚步声，梅尔夫人起身，放开了孩子。奥斯蒙德先生进来并关上了门。然后，他没有看梅尔夫人，而是把一两把椅子推回了原来的位置。他的来访者等了他一会儿，看着他走来走去。最后她说：“我希望你能来罗马。”我想你可能希望自己把潘西带走。

‘That was a natural supposition; but I’m afraid it’s not the first time I’ve acted in defiance of your calculations.’
“这是一个自然的假设；但这恐怕不是我第一次违背你的算计了。

‘Yes,’ said Madame Merle, ‘I think you very perverse.’
“是的，”梅尔夫人说，“我认为你非常任性。”

Mr. Osmond busied himself for a moment in the room—there was plenty of space in it to move about—in the fashion of a man mechanically seeking pretexts for not giving an attention which may be embarrassing. Presently, however, he had exhausted his pretexts; there was nothing left for him—unless he took up a book—but to stand with his hands behind him looking at Pansy. ‘Why didn’t you come and see the last of Mamman Catherine?’ he asked of her abruptly in French.
奥斯蒙德先生在房间里忙了一会儿——房间里有足够的空间可以走动——就像一个人机械地寻找借口不予关注，这可能会令人尴尬。然而，现在他的借口已经用尽了。他别无选择——除非他拿起一本书——只能双手放在身后站着，看着潘西。 “你为什么不来看看凯瑟琳妈妈的最后一面？”他用法语突然问她。

Pansy hesitated a moment, glancing at Madame Merle. ‘I asked her to stay with me,’ said this lady, who had seated herself again in another place.
Pansy犹豫了一下，看了一眼Merle夫人。 “我让她留在我身边，”这位女士说道，她又在另一个地方坐下了。

‘Ah, that was better,’ Osmond conceded. With which he dropped into a chair and sat looking at Madame Merle; bent forward a little, his elbows on the edge of the arms and his hands interlocked.
“啊，这样更好，”奥斯蒙德承认。说完，他坐到椅子上，坐下来看着梅尔夫人。身体稍微向前倾，手肘抵在手臂边缘，双手相扣。

‘She’s going to give me some gloves,’ said Pansy.
“她会给我一些手套，”潘西说。

‘You needn’t tell that to every one, my dear,’ Madame Merle observed.
“亲爱的，你不必把这一点告诉每个人，”梅尔夫人评论道。

‘You’re very kind to her,’ said Osmond. ‘She’s supposed to have everything she needs.’
“你对她很好，”奥斯蒙德说。 “她应该拥有她需要的一切。”

‘I should think she had had enough of the nuns.’
“我想她已经受够了修女。”

‘If we’re going to discuss that matter she had better go out of the room.’
“如果我们要讨论这件事，她最好离开房间。”

‘Let her stay,’ said Madame Merle. ‘We’ll talk of something else.’
“让她留下来吧，”梅尔夫人说。 “我们会谈谈别的事情。”

‘If you like I won’t listen,’ Pansy suggested with an appearance of candour which imposed conviction.
“如果你愿意，我就不会听。”潘西建议道，他的坦率表情让人信服。

‘You may listen, charming child, because you won’t understand,’ her father replied. The child sat down, deferentially, near the open door, within sight of the garden, into which she directed her innocent, wistful eyes; and Mr. Osmond went on irrelevantly, addressing himself to his other companion. ‘You’re looking particularly well.’
“你可以听着，可爱的孩子，因为你不会明白，”她的父亲回答道。孩子恭敬地坐在敞开的门旁，可以看到花园，她用天真而渴望的眼睛看着花园。奥斯蒙德先生继续不相干地对他的另一个同伴说话。 “你看上去气色特别好。”

‘I think I always look the same,’ said Madame Merle.
“我想我看起来总是一样的，”梅尔夫人说。

‘You always are the same. You don’t vary. You’re a wonderful woman.’
‘你总是一样的。你没有变化。你是一个很棒的女人。

‘Yes, I think I am.’
“是的，我想我是。”

‘You sometimes change your mind, however. You told me on your return from England that you wouldn’t leave Rome again for the present.’
“然而，你有时会改变主意。你从英国回来时告诉我，你目前不会再离开罗马。”

‘I’m pleased that you remember so well what I say. That was my intention. But I’ve come to Florence to meet some friends who have lately arrived and as to whose movements I was at that time uncertain.’
“我很高兴你能这么清楚地记得我说的话。这就是我的意图。但我来佛罗伦萨是为了见一些最近才到达的朋友，当时我不确定他们的行踪。”

‘That reason’s characteristic. You’re always doing something for your friends.’
‘那个理由的特点。你总是为你的朋友做一些事情。

Madame Merle smiled straight at her host. ‘It’s less characteristic than your comment upon it—which is perfectly insincere. I don’t, however, make a crime of that,’ she added, ‘because if you don’t believe what you say there’s no reason why you should. I don’t ruin myself for my friends; I don’t deserve your praise. I care greatly for myself.’
梅尔夫人直接对主人微笑。 “这不像你对它的评论那么有特色——这是完全不真诚的。”然而，我并没有因此而犯罪，”她补充道，“因为如果你不相信你所说的话，你就没有理由相信。我不会为了朋友而毁掉自己；我不值得你的赞扬。我非常关心自己。

‘Exactly; but yourself includes so many other selves—so much of every one else and of everything. I never knew a person whose life touched so many other lives.’
'确切地;但你自己也包含了很多其他的自我——包含了很多其他的自我，包含了很多其他的自我。我从来不认识一个人，他的生活影响了这么多人的生活。”

‘What do you call one’s life?’ asked Madame Merle. ‘One’s appearance, one’s movements, one’s engagements, one’s society?’
“你怎么称呼一个人的生活？”梅尔夫人问道。 “一个人的外表、一个人的举动、一个人的活动、一个人的社会？”

‘I call your life your ambitions,’ said Osmond.
“我称你的生活为你的野心，”奥斯蒙德说。

Madame Merle looked a moment at Pansy. ‘I wonder if she understands that,’ she murmured.
梅尔夫人看了潘西一会儿。 “我不知道她是否明白这一点，”她低声说道。

‘You see she can’t stay with us!’ And Pansy’s father gave rather a joyless smile. ‘Go into the garden, mignonne, and pluck a flower or two for Madame Merle,’ he went on in French.
“你看，她不能和我们呆在一起！”潘西的父亲露出了一个相当不高兴的微笑。 “去花园里吧，米尼翁，为梅尔夫人摘一两朵花，”他用法语继续说道。

‘That’s just what I wanted to do,’ Pansy exclaimed, rising with promptness and noiselessly departing. Her father followed her to the open door, stood a moment watching her, and then came back, but remained standing, or rather strolling to and from as if to cultivate a sense of freedom which in another attitude might be wanting.
“这正是我想做的，”潘西惊呼道，迅速站起身来，悄无声息地离开了。她的父亲跟着她走到敞开的门前，站了一会儿看着她，然后回来了，但仍然站着，或者更确切地说，漫步来回，仿佛是为了培养一种自由感，而这种自由感在另一种态度下可能是缺乏的。

‘My ambitions are principally for you,’ said Madame Merle, looking up at him with a certain courage.
“我的野心主要是为了你，”梅尔夫人说道，带着一定的勇气抬头看着他。

‘That comes back to what I say. I’m part of your life—I and a thousand others. You’re not selfish—I can’t admit that. If you were selfish, what should I be? What epithet would properly describe me?’
‘这又回到了我所说的。我是你生活的一部分——我和其他一千个人。你并不自私——我不能承认这一点。如果你自私，那我应该怎样？什么样的绰号可以恰当地描述我？

‘You’re indolent. For me that’s your worst fault.’
‘你真懒。对我来说，这是你最大的错误。

‘I’m afraid it’s really my best.’
“恐怕这真的是我最好的了。”

‘You don’t care,’ said Madame Merle gravely.
“你不在乎，”梅尔夫人严肃地说。

‘No; I don’t think I care much. What sort of a fault do you call that? My indolence, at any rate, was one of the reasons I didn’t go to Rome. But it was only one of them.’
'不;我想我不太在乎。你称之为什么样的错误？无论如何，我的懒惰是我没有去罗马的原因之一。但这只是其中之一。

‘It’s not of importance—to me at least—that you didn’t go; though I should have been glad to see you. I’m glad you’re not in Rome now—which you might be, would probably be, if you had gone there a month ago. There’s something I should like you to do at present in Florence.’
“你去不去并不重要——至少对我来说是这样；重要的是，这并不重要。”虽然我应该很高兴见到你。我很高兴你现在不在罗马——如果你一个月前去了罗马，你可能会在罗马。我希望你现在在佛罗伦萨做一件事。

‘Please remember my indolence,’ said Osmond.
“请记住我的懒惰，”奥斯蒙德说。

‘I do remember it; but I beg you to forget it. In that way you’ll have both the virtue and the reward. This is not a great labour, and it may prove a real interest. How long is it since you made a new acquaintance?’
“我确实记得；但我求你忘记它。这样你就有功德和果报了。这不是一项伟大的工作，但它可能会证明是一种真正的兴趣。自从你结识新朋友以来有多久了？

‘I don’t think I’ve made any since I made yours.’
“自从做了你的之后，我想我就没有做过任何东西了。”

‘It’s time then you should make another. There’s a friend of mine I want you to know.’
‘是时候你应该再做一个了。我想让你认识我的一个朋友。

Mr. Osmond, in his walk, had gone back to the open door again and was looking at his daughter as she moved about in the intense sunshine. ‘What good will it do me?’ he asked with a sort of genial crudity.
奥斯蒙德先生一边走，一边又回到开着的门边，看着女儿在强烈的阳光下走来走去。 “这对我有什么好处？”他带着一种和善的粗鲁问道。

Madame Merle waited. ‘It will amuse you.’ There was nothing crude in this rejoinder; it had been thoroughly well considered.
梅尔夫人等待着。 “这会让你觉得有趣的。”这个反驳并没有什么粗鄙之处。它已经经过充分考虑。

‘If you say that, you know, I believe it,’ said Osmond, coming toward her. ‘There are some points in which my confidence in you is complete. I’m perfectly aware, for instance, that you know good society from bad.’
“如果你这么说，你知道，我相信，”奥斯蒙德朝她走来说道。 ‘有些方面我对你是完全有信心的。例如，我完全清楚你可以区分社会的好坏。

‘Society is all bad.’
“社会很糟糕。”

‘Pardon me. That isn’t—the knowledge I impute to you—a common sort of wisdom. You’ve gained it in the right way—experimentally; you’ve compared an immense number of more or less impossible people with each other.’
'对不起。这不是——我认为你的知识——一种常见的智慧。你已经以正确的方式获得了它——通过实验；你已经将大量或多或少不可能的人相互进行了比较。

‘Well, I invite you to profit by my knowledge.’
“好吧，我邀请你从我的知识中获益。”

‘To profit? Are you very sure that I shall?’
‘为了利益？你确定我会这么做吗？

‘It’s what I hope. It will depend on yourself. If I could only induce you to make an effort!’
‘这就是我所希望的。这取决于你自己。如果我能诱导你努力就好了！

‘Ah, there you are! I knew something tiresome was coming. What in the world—that’s likely to turn up here—is worth an effort?’
‘啊，你来了！我知道有些令人厌烦的事情即将发生。到底有什么——可能会出现在这里——值得我们付出努力？

Madame Merle flushed as with a wounded intention. ‘Don’t be foolish, Osmond. No one knows better than you what is worth an effort. Haven’t I seen you in old days?’
梅尔夫人脸红了，仿佛受到了伤害。 “别犯傻了，奥斯蒙德。没有人比你更清楚什么是值得付出努力的。我以前没见过你吗？

‘I recognize some things. But they’re none of them probable in this poor life.’
“我认识到一些事情。但在这可怜的生活中，他们都不可能是这样。”

‘It’s the effort that makes them probable,’ said Madame Merle.
“正是努力使它们成为可能，”梅尔夫人说。

‘There’s something in that. Who then is your friend?’
‘那里面有一些东西。那么谁是你的朋友呢？

‘The person I came to Florence to see. She’s a niece of Mrs. Touchett, whom you’ll not have forgotten.’
“我来佛罗伦萨要见的人。她是图切特夫人的侄女，你不会忘记她的。

‘A niece? The word niece suggests youth and ignorance. I see what you’re coming to.’
‘侄女？侄女这个词暗示着年轻和无知。我明白你要做什么了。

‘Yes, she’s young—twenty-three years old. She’s a great friend of mine. I met her for the first time in England, several months ago, and we struck up a grand alliance. I like her immensely, and I do what I don’t do every day—I admire her. You’ll do the same.’
“是的，她很年轻——二十三岁。她是我的好朋友。几个月前，我在英国第一次见到她，我们结成了伟大的联盟。我非常喜欢她，我每天都会做一些我不做的事情——我钦佩她。你也会这样做。

‘Not if I can help it.’
“如果我能帮忙的话就不会。”

‘Precisely. But you won’t be able to help it.’
'恰恰。但你将无能为力。

‘Is she beautiful, clever, rich, splendid, universally intelligent and unprecedentedly virtuous? It’s only on those conditions that I care to make her acquaintance. You know I asked you some time ago never to speak to me of a creature who shouldn’t correspond to that description. I know plenty of dingy people; I don’t want to know any more.’
‘她是不是美丽、聪明、富有、出色、聪慧、贤惠？只有在这些条件下我才愿意结识她。你知道我不久前曾要求过你永远不要对我谈论不符合这种描述的生物。我认识很多肮脏的人；我不想再知道了。

‘Miss Archer isn’t dingy; she’s as bright as the morning. She corresponds to your description; it’s for that I wish you to know her. She fills all your requirements.’
“阿切尔小姐并不邋遢；她像早晨一样明亮。她符合你的描述；为此我希望你认识她。她满足你所有的要求。

‘More or less, of course.’
“当然，或多或少。”

‘No; quite literally. She’s beautiful, accomplished, generous and, for an American, well-born. She’s also very clever and very amiable, and she has a handsome fortune.’
'不;毫不夸张的说。她美丽、多才多艺、慷慨，而且对于一个美国人来说，她出身名门。她也很聪明，很和蔼可亲，而且拥有一笔可观的财产。

Mr. Osmond listened to this in silence, appearing to turn it over in his mind with his eyes on his informant. ‘What do you want to do with her?’ he asked at last.
奥斯蒙德先生默默地听着，眼睛看着线人，似乎在心里翻阅着。 “你想对她做什么？”他最后问道。

‘What you see. Put her in your way.’
'你看到什么了。让她挡住你的路。

‘Isn’t she meant for something better than that?’
“她的目的难道不是为了更好的事情吗？”

‘I don’t pretend to know what people are meant for,’ said Madame Merle. ‘I only know what I can do with them.’
“我不会假装知道人们的用途，”梅尔夫人说。 “我只知道我能用它们做什么。”

‘I’m sorry for Miss Archer!’ Osmond declared.
“我为阿切尔小姐感到抱歉！”奥斯蒙德宣称。

Madame Merle got up. ‘If that’s a beginning of interest in her I take note of it.’
梅尔夫人站了起来。 “如果这是对她感兴趣的开始，我会记下来。”

The two stood there face to face; she settled her mantilla, looking down at it as she did so. ‘You’re looking very well,’ Osmond repeated still less relevantly than before. ‘You have some idea. You’re never so well as when you’ve got an idea; they’re always becoming to you.’
两人面对面站在那里；她摆好头巾，一边低头看着它。 “你看上去气色很好。”奥斯蒙德重复道，但语气却比以前不那么相关了。 ‘你有一些想法。当你有一个想法的时候，你的状态会更好。他们总是适合你。

In the manner and tone of these two persons, on first meeting at any juncture, and especially when they met in the presence of others, was something indirect and circumspect, as if they had approached each other obliquely and addressed each other by implication. The effect of each appeared to be to intensify to an appreciable degree the self-consciousness of the other. Madame Merle of course carried off any embarrassment better than her friend; but even Madame Merle had not on this occasion the form she would have liked to have—the perfect self-possession she would have wished to wear for her host. The point to be made is, however, that at a certain moment the element between them, whatever it was, always levelled itself and left them more closely face to face than either ever was with any one else. This was what had happened now. They stood there knowing each other well and each on the whole willing to accept the satisfaction of knowing as a compensation for the inconvenience—whatever it might be—of being known. ‘I wish very much you were not so heartless,’ Madame Merle quietly said. ‘It has always been against you, and it will be against you now.’
这两个人的态度和语气，无论在什么时候，第一次见面，尤其是在别人面前见面的时候，都带着一种间接和谨慎的态度，仿佛是间接地接近对方，含蓄地称呼对方。两者的效果似乎都在很大程度上增强了对方的自我意识。梅尔夫人当然比她的朋友更好地处理了任何尴尬。但即使是梅尔夫人，这一次也没有表现出她想要的样子——她希望在主人面前表现出完美的镇定。然而，需要指出的是，在某一时刻，他们之间的因素，无论是什么，总是会自行拉平，使他们比任何人都更加面对面地面对面。这就是现在发生的事情。他们站在那里，彼此都很了解，而且总的来说，每个人都愿意接受了解的满足感，作为对被了解所带来的不便（无论是什么）的补偿。 “我非常希望你不要那么无情。”梅尔夫人轻声说道。 “它一直反对你，现在也会反对你。”

‘I’m not so heartless as you think. Every now and then something touches me—as for instance your saying just now that your ambitions are for me. I don’t understand it; I don’t see how or why they should be. But it touches me, all the same.’
‘我没有你想象的那么无情。时不时会有一些事情触动我——比如你刚才说你的野心是为了我。我不明白；我不明白它们应该如何或为何如此。但这仍然触动了我。

‘You’ll probably understand it even less as time goes on. There are some things you’ll never understand. There’s no particular need you should.’
‘随着时间的推移，你可能会更加不理解它。有些事情你永远不会明白。你没有什么特别的需要。

‘You, after all, are the most remarkable of women,’ said Osmond. ‘You have more in you than almost any one. I don’t see why you think Mrs. Touchett’s niece should matter very much to me, when—when-’ But he paused a moment.
“毕竟，你是最杰出的女性，”奥斯蒙德说。 ‘你比任何人都拥有更多的东西。我不明白为什么你认为图切特夫人的侄女对我来说应该非常重要，当——当——”但他停顿了一会儿。

‘When I myself have mattered so little?’
“当我自己变得如此无足轻重的时候？”

‘That of course is not what I meant to say. When I’ve known and appreciated such a woman as you.’
‘这当然不是我想说的。当我认识并欣赏像你这样的女人时。

‘Isabel Archer’s better than I,’ said Madame Merle.
“伊莎贝尔·阿切尔比我强，”梅尔夫人说。

Her companion gave a laugh. ‘How little you must think of her to say that!’
她的同伴笑了。 “你这么说一定是太小看她了！”

‘Do you suppose I’m capable of jealousy? Please answer me that.’
‘你认为我有嫉妒的能力吗？请回答我。

‘With regard to me? No; on the whole I don’t.’
‘关于我？不;总的来说我不这么认为。

‘Come and see me then, two days hence. I’m staying at Mrs. Touchett’s—Palazzo Crescentini—and the girl will be there.’
‘那么两天后就来见我吧。我住在图切特夫人家——克雷森蒂尼宫——那个女孩也会在那里。

‘Why didn’t you ask me that at first simply, without speaking of the girl?’ said Osmond. ‘You could have had her there at any rate.’
“你为什么一开始不简单地问我这个问题，不提那个女孩呢？”奥斯蒙德说。 “无论如何，你本来可以让她在那里的。”

Madame Merle looked at him in the manner of a woman whom no question he could ever put would find unprepared. ‘Do you wish to know why? Because I’ve spoken of you to her.’
梅尔夫人看着他，就像一个女人，无论他提出什么问题，都会发现她毫无准备。 ‘你想知道为什么吗？因为我跟她谈过你。”

Osmond frowned and turned away. ‘I’d rather not know that.’ Then in a moment he pointed out the easel supporting the little water-colour drawing. ‘Have you seen what’s there—my last?’
奥斯蒙德皱起眉头，转身走开。 “我宁愿不知道。”过了一会儿，他指着支撑那幅小水彩画的画架。 “你看到那儿的东西了吗——我的最后一个？”

Madame Merle drew near and considered. ‘Is it the Venetian Alps—one of your last year’s sketches?’
梅尔夫人走近并思考。 “这是你去年的素描作品中的威尼斯阿尔卑斯山吗？”

‘Yes—but how you guess everything!’
“是的——但是你怎么猜到一切！”

She looked a moment longer, then turned away. ‘You know I don’t care for your drawings.’
她又看了一会儿，然后转身走开。 “你知道我不喜欢你的画。”

‘I know it, yet I’m always surprised at it. They’re really so much better than most people’s.’
“我知道，但我总是对此感到惊讶。他们真的比大多数人好得多。

‘That may very well be. But as the only thing you do—well, it’s so little. I should have liked you to do so many other things: those were my ambitions.’
'很可能是这样。但作为你唯一做的事情——好吧，它太少了。我本来希望你做很多其他的事情：这些是我的抱负。

‘Yes; you’ve told me many times—things that were impossible.’
'是的;你已经告诉过我很多次了——那些不可能的事情。”

‘Things that were impossible,’ said Madame Merle. And then in quite a different tone: ‘In itself your little picture’s very good.’ She looked about the room—at the old cabinets, pictures, tapestries, surfaces of faded silk. ‘Your rooms at least are perfect. I’m struck with that afresh whenever I come back; I know none better anywhere. You understand this sort of thing as nobody anywhere does. You’ve such adorable taste.’
“这是不可能的事情，”梅尔夫人说。然后用一种完全不同的语气说：“你的小照片本身就非常好。”她环顾房间——看着旧橱柜、照片、挂毯、褪色的丝绸表面。 “至少你的房间很完美。每当我回来时，我都会再次被这一点所震惊；我不知道任何地方都更好。你对这种事情的理解是任何地方都没有人能理解的。你的品味真可爱。

‘I’m sick of my adorable taste,’ said Gilbert Osmond.
“我厌倦了我可爱的品味，”吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德说。

‘You must nevertheless let Miss Archer come and see it. I’ve told her about it.’
“无论如何，你必须让阿切尔小姐过来看看。”我已经告诉她这件事了。

‘I don’t object to showing my things—when people are not idiots.’
“当人们不是白痴时，我不反对展示我的东西。”

‘You do it delightfully. As cicerone of your museum you appear to particular advantage.’
‘你做得很愉快。作为博物馆的管理员，你似乎具有特别的优势。”

Mr. Osmond, in return for this compliment, simply looked at once colder and more attentive. ‘Did you say she was rich?’
奥斯蒙德先生作为对这一赞美的回报，只是显得更加冷漠和更加专注。 “你说她很有钱吗？”

‘She has seventy thousand pounds.’
“她有七万英镑。”

‘En ecus bien comptes?’
“En ecus bien comptes？”

‘There’s no doubt whatever about her fortune. I’ve seen it, as I may say.’
“她的财富是毫无疑问的。正如我可以说的，我已经看到了。

‘Satisfactory woman!—I mean you. And if I go to see her shall I see the mother?’
“令人满意的女人！——我指的是你。”如果我去看她，我会看到她的母亲吗？

‘The mother? She has none—nor father either.’
‘母亲？她没有父亲，也没有父亲。

‘The aunt then—whom did you say?—Mrs. Touchett.’
“那么，那位阿姨——你说是谁？——阿姨太太。”塔奇特。”

‘I can easily keep her out of the way.’
“我可以轻松地让她远离。”

‘I don’t object to her,’ said Osmond; ‘I rather like Mrs. Touchett. She has a sort of old-fashioned character that’s passing away—a vivid identity. But that long jackanapes the son—is he about the place?’
“我不反对她，”奥斯蒙德说。 “我比较喜欢图切特夫人。她有一种正在消失的老式性格——一种生动的身份。但是那个长长的杰克纳佩斯儿子——他是这个地方的人吗？

‘He’s there, but he won’t trouble you.’
“他在那儿，但他不会打扰你。”

‘He’s a good deal of a donkey.’
“他真是一头驴子。”

‘I think you’re mistaken. He’s a very clever man. But he’s not fond of being about when I’m there, because he doesn’t like me.’
‘我认为你错了。他是一个非常聪明的人。但当我在那里时，他不喜欢出现，因为他不喜欢我。”

‘What could be more asinine than that? Did you say she has looks?’ Osmond went on.
‘还有什么比这更愚蠢的呢？你说她有颜值吗？”奥斯蒙德继续说道。

‘Yes; but I won’t say it again, lest you should be disappointed in them. Come and make a beginning; that’s all I ask of you.’
'是的;但我不会再说一遍，以免你对他们失望。来吧，开始吧；这就是我对你的全部要求。

‘A beginning of what?’
“什么的开始？”

Madame Merle was silent a little. ‘I want you of course to marry her.’
梅尔夫人沉默了一会儿。 “我当然希望你娶她。”

‘The beginning of the end? Well, I’ll see for myself. Have you told her that?’
'结局的开始？好吧，我亲自看看。你告诉她了吗？

‘For what do you take me? She’s not so coarse a piece of machinery—nor am I.’
‘你拿我来做什么？她不是那么粗糙的机器——我也不是。

‘Really,’ said Osmond after some meditation, ‘I don’t understand your ambitions.’
“真的，”奥斯蒙德沉思了一下后说道，“我不明白你的野心。”

‘I think you’ll understand this one after you’ve seen Miss Archer. Suspend your judgement.’ Madame Merle, as she spoke, had drawn near the open door of the garden, where she stood a moment looking out. ‘Pansy has really grown pretty,’ she presently added.
‘我想你看过阿切尔小姐之后就会明白这一点。梅尔夫人一边说话，一边走近花园敞开的大门，站在那里向外张望了一会儿。 “潘西真的长得很漂亮了，”她随即补充道。

‘So it seemed to me.’
“我觉得是这样。”

‘But she has had enough of the convent.’
“但她已经受够了修道院。”

‘I don’t know,’ said Osmond. ‘I like what they’ve made of her. It’s very charming.’
“我不知道，”奥斯蒙德说。 “我喜欢他们对她的塑造。这非常迷人。

‘That’s not the convent. It’s the child’s nature.’
‘那不是修道院。这是孩子的天性。”

‘It’s the combination, I think. She’s as pure as a pearl.’
“我认为这就是组合。”她像珍珠一样纯洁。

‘Why doesn’t she come back with my flowers then?’ Madame Merle asked. ‘She’s not in a hurry.’
“那她为什么不带着我的花回来呢？”梅尔夫人问道。 “她不着急。”

‘We’ll go and get them.’
“我们去接他们。”

‘She doesn’t like me,’ the visitor murmured as she raised her parasol and they passed into the garden.
“她不喜欢我。”来访者一边低声说道，一边举起阳伞，然后他们走进了花园。

Chapter 23
第23章

Madame Merle, who had come to Florence on Mrs. Touchett’s arrival at the invitation of this lady—Mrs. Touchett offering her for a month the hospitality of Palazzo Crescentini—the judicious Madame Merle spoke to Isabel afresh about Gilbert Osmond and expressed the hope she might know him; making, however, no such point of the matter as we have seen her do in recommending the girl herself to Mr. Osmond’s attention. The reason of this was perhaps that Isabel offered no resistance whatever to Madame Merle’s proposal. In Italy, as in England, the lady had a multitude of friends, both among the natives of the country and its heterogeneous visitors. She had mentioned to Isabel most of the people the girl would find it well to ‘meet’—of course, she said, Isabel could know whomever in the wide world she would—and had placed Mr. Osmond near the top of the list. He was an old friend of her own; she had known him these dozen years; he was one of the cleverest and most agreeable men—well, in Europe simply. He was altogether above the respectable average; quite another affair. He wasn’t a professional charmer—far from it, and the effect he produced depended a good deal on the state of his nerves and his spirits. When not in the right mood he could fall as low as any one, saved only by his looking at such hours rather like a demoralized prince in exile. But if he cared or was interested or rightly challenged—just exactly rightly it had to be—then one felt his cleverness and his distinction. Those qualities didn’t depend, in him, as in so many people, on his not committing or exposing himself. He had his perversities—which indeed Isabel would find to be the case with all the men really worth knowing—and didn’t cause his light to shine equally for all persons. Madame Merle, however, thought she could undertake that for Isabel he would be brilliant. He was easily bored, too easily, and dull people always put him out; but a quick and cultivated girl like Isabel would give him a stimulus which was too absent from his life. At any rate he was a person not to miss. One shouldn’t attempt to live in Italy without making a friend of Gilbert Osmond, who knew more about the country than any one except two or three German professors. And if they had more knowledge than he it was he who had most perception and taste—being artistic through and through. Isabel remembered that her friend had spoken of him during their plunge, at Gardencourt, into the deeps of talk, and wondered a little what was the nature of the tie binding these superior spirits. She felt that Madame Merle’s ties always somehow had histories, and such an impression was part of the interest created by this inordinate woman. As regards her relations with Mr. Osmond, however, she hinted at nothing but a long-established calm friendship. Isabel said she should be happy to know a person who had enjoyed so high a confidence for so many years. ‘You ought to see a great many men,’ Madame Merle remarked; ‘you ought to see as many as possible, so as to get used to them.’
梅尔夫人，应这位女士的邀请，在图切特夫人到来时来到了佛罗伦萨。塔切特邀请她在克雷森蒂尼宫招待一个月——明智的梅尔夫人再次与伊莎贝尔谈论吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德，并表示希望她能认识他；然而，她并没有像我们看到的那样，向奥斯蒙德先生推荐这个女孩本人，以此来说明这一点。原因或许是伊莎贝尔对梅尔夫人的提议没有任何抵抗。在意大利，就像在英国一样，这位女士有很多朋友，其中既有该国的当地人，也有来自异国他乡的游客。她向伊莎贝尔提到了女孩觉得很适合“见面”的大多数人——当然，她说，伊莎贝尔可以认识世界上她想认识的任何人——并且把奥斯蒙德先生排在了名单的首位。他是她自己的老朋友。她认识他十几年了；他是欧洲最聪明、最和蔼可亲的人之一。他完全高于令人尊敬的平均水平。完全是另一件事。他不是一个职业魔术师——远非如此，他所产生的效果在很大程度上取决于他的神经和精神状态。当心情不好时，他可能会像任何人一样情绪低落，只有他像一位士气低落的流亡王子一样看待这样的时刻，才能避免这种情况。但如果他关心、感兴趣或受到正确的挑战——这一定是完全正确的——那么人们就会感受到他的聪明和与众不同。在他身上，就像在很多人身上一样，这些品质并不取决于他不承诺或暴露自己。他有他的乖僻——事实上，伊莎贝尔会发现所有真正值得了解的人都有这种情况——但并没有让他的光芒平等地照耀所有人。 然而，梅尔夫人认为她可以保证，对于伊莎贝尔来说，他会很聪明。他很容易感到无聊，太容易了，迟钝的人总是让他感到厌烦。但像伊莎贝尔这样敏捷而有教养的女孩会给他带来生活中太少的刺激。无论如何，他都是一个不容错过的人。一个人不应该尝试在意大利生活而没有结交吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德（Gilbert Osmond）的朋友，除了两三位德国教授之外，他对这个国家的了解比任何人都多。如果说他们比他拥有更多的知识，那他就是最具洞察力和品味的人——彻头彻尾的艺术。伊莎贝尔记得她的朋友在花园庭院的谈话中谈到了他，她有点想知道束缚这些优越精神的纽带的本质是什么。她觉得梅尔夫人的领带总有某种历史，而这种印象正是这个无礼的女人所创造的兴趣的一部分。然而，谈到她与奥斯蒙德先生的关系时，她只暗示了一种长期建立的平静的友谊。伊莎贝尔说她应该很高兴认识一个多年来一直享有如此高信心的人。 “你应该看到很多男人，”梅尔夫人说。 ‘你应该尽可能多地看，这样才能习惯。’

‘Used to them?’ Isabel repeated with that solemn stare which sometimes seemed to proclaim her deficient in the sense of comedy. ‘Why, I’m not afraid of them—I’m as used to them as the cook to the butcher-boys.’
“习惯了？”伊莎贝尔重复道，眼神严肃，有时似乎表明她缺乏喜剧感。 “哎呀，我不怕他们——我已经习惯了他们，就像厨师习惯了屠夫一样。”

‘Used to them, I mean, so as to despise them. That’s what one comes to with most of them. You’ll pick out, for your society, the few whom you don’t despise.’
“我的意思是，习惯了他们，从而鄙视他们。这就是大多数人的想法。你会为你的社会挑选出少数你不鄙视的人。

This was a note of cynicism that Madame Merle didn’t often allow herself to sound; but Isabel was not alarmed, for she had never supposed that as one saw more of the world the sentiment of respect became the most active of one’s emotions. It was excited, none the less, by the beautiful city of Florence, which pleased her not less than Madame Merle had promised; and if her unassisted perception had not been able to gauge its charms she had clever companions as priests to the mystery. She was in no want indeed of aesthetic illumination, for Ralph found it a joy that renewed his own early passion to act as cicerone to his eager young kinswoman. Madame Merle remained at home; she had seen the treasures of Florence again and again and had always something else to do. But she talked of all things with remarkable vividness of memory—she recalled the right-hand corner of the large Perugino and the position of the hands of the Saint Elizabeth in the picture next to it. She had her opinions as to the character of many famous works of art, differing often from Ralph with great sharpness and defending her interpretations with as much ingenuity as good-humour. Isabel listened to the discussions taking place between the two with a sense that she might derive much benefit from them and that they were among the advantages she couldn’t have enjoyed for instance in Albany. In the clear May mornings before the formal breakfast—this repast at Mrs. Touchett’s was served at twelve o’clock—she wandered with her cousin through the narrow and sombre Florentine streets, resting a while in the thicker dusk of some historic church or the vaulted chambers of some dispeopled convent. She went to the galleries and palaces; she looked at the pictures and statues that had hitherto been great names to her, and exchanged for a knowledge which was sometimes a limitation a presentiment which proved usually to have been a blank. She performed all those acts of mental prostration in which, on a first visit to Italy, youth and enthusiasm so freely indulge; she felt her heart beat in the presence of immortal genius and knew the sweetness of rising tears in eyes to which faded fresco and darkened marble grew dim. But the return, every day, was even pleasanter than the going forth; the return into the wide, monumental court of the great house in which Mrs. Touchett, many years before, had established herself, and into the high, cool rooms where the carven rafters and pompous frescoes of the sixteenth century looked down on the familiar commodities of the age of advertisement. Mrs. Touchett inhabited an historic building in a narrow street whose very name recalled the strife of mediaeval factions; and found compensation for the darkness of her frontage in the modicity of her rent and the brightness of a garden where nature itself looked as archaic as the rugged architecture of the palace and which cleared and scented the rooms in regular use. To live in such a place was, for Isabel, to hold to her ear all day a shell of the sea of the past. This vague eternal rumour kept her imagination awake.
这是梅尔夫人不常表现出的愤世嫉俗的语气。但伊莎贝尔并不惊慌，因为她从来没有想到，当一个人见识更多的世界时，尊重的情感就会成为一个人最活跃的情感。尽管如此，美丽的佛罗伦萨城还是令她兴奋不已，这正如梅尔夫人所承诺的那样令她高兴。如果她的独立感知无法衡量它的魅力，她也有聪明的同伴作为神秘的牧师。她确实不需要审美上的启发，因为拉尔夫发现，重新燃起他自己早期的热情，为他热切的年轻女亲戚充当护卫是一种乐趣。梅尔夫人留在家里。她一次又一次地参观了佛罗伦萨的宝藏，并且总是有其他事情要做。但她以惊人的生动记忆谈论所有事情——她回忆起大佩鲁吉诺的右角和旁边图片中圣伊丽莎白的手的位置。她对许多著名艺术作品的特征有自己的看法，常常与拉尔夫截然不同，并以独创性和幽默感捍卫自己的解释。伊莎贝尔听着两人之间的讨论，感觉自己可能会从中受益匪浅，而这些都是她在奥尔巴尼等地无法享受到的优势。晴朗的五月早晨，在正式早餐前（图切特夫人家的这顿饭是在十二点钟供应的），她和她的表弟漫步穿过狭窄而阴沉的佛罗伦萨街道，在某个历史悠久的教堂或教堂的浓浓暮色中休息了一会儿。一些废弃修道院的拱形房间。 她去了画廊和宫殿；她看着迄今为止对她来说很伟大的图画和雕像，交换了一种知识，这种知识有时是一种限制，一种预感，而这种预感通常被证明是一片空白。她所做的所有这些精神崩溃的行为，在第一次访问意大利时，青春和热情如此自由地沉溺其中；她感觉到自己的心在不朽的天才面前跳动，也知道眼中泪水的甜蜜，褪色的壁画和深色的大理石变得暗淡。但每天回来都比出发更愉快。回到塔奇特夫人多年前住过的那座大房子的宽阔、宏伟的庭院，回到高耸、凉爽的房间，那里的雕刻椽子和十六世纪浮夸的壁画俯视着熟悉的商品广告时代。塔奇特夫人住在一条狭窄街道上的一栋历史建筑里，它的名字让人想起中世纪派系的冲突。她以低廉的租金和花园的明亮来补偿她正面的黑暗，花园里的自然本身看起来就像宫殿崎岖的建筑一样古老，并且在经常使用的房间里清理和散发着香味。对伊莎贝尔来说，生活在这样的地方就像整天把过去的大海的贝壳贴在耳边。这个模糊永恒的传闻让她的想象力保持着清醒。

Gilbert Osmond came to see Madame Merle, who presented him to the young lady lurking at the other side of the room. Isabel took on this occasion little part in the talk; she scarcely even smiled when the others turned to her invitingly; she sat there as if she had been at the play and had paid even a large sum for her place. Mrs. Touchett was not present, and these two had it, for the effect of brilliancy, all their own way. They talked of the Florentine, the Roman, the cosmopolite world, and might have been distinguished performers figuring for a charity. It all had the rich readiness that would have come from rehearsal. Madame Merle appealed to her as if she had been on the stage, but she could ignore any learnt cue without spoiling the scene—though of course she thus put dreadfully in the wrong the friend who had told Mr. Osmond she could be depended on. This was no matter for once; even if more had been involved she could have made no attempt to shine. There was something in the visitor that checked her and held her in suspensemade it more important she should get an impression of him than that she should produce one herself. Besides, she had little skill in producing an impression which she knew to be expected: nothing could be happier, in general, than to seem dazzling, but she had a perverse unwillingness to glitter by arrangement. Mr. Osmond, to do him justice, had a well-bred air of expecting nothing, a quiet ease that covered everything, even the first show of his own wit. This was the more grateful as his face, his head, was sensitive; he was not handsome, but he was fine, as fine as one of the drawings in the long gallery above the bridge of the Uffizi. And his very voice was fine—the more strangely that, with its clearness, it yet somehow wasn’t sweet. This had had really to do with making her abstain from interference. His utterance was the vibration of glass, and if she had put out her finger she might have changed the pitch and spoiled the concert. Yet before he went she had to speak.
吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德来看望梅尔夫人，梅尔夫人将他介绍给潜伏在房间另一边的年轻女士。伊莎贝尔这次很少参与谈话。当其他人转向她时，她几乎没有微笑。她坐在那儿，就好像她曾亲临演出，甚至为自己的位置付出了一大笔钱。塔切特夫人并不在场，而这两个人却以自己的方式做到了这一点，以达到辉煌的效果。他们谈论佛罗伦萨、罗马、国际化世界，并且可能是为慈善事业筹划的杰出表演者。这一切都经过排练，准备充分。梅尔夫人对她的吸引力就像她在舞台上一样，但她可以忽略任何习得的暗示，而不会破坏场景——当然，她因此严重错误地错误地告诉了奥斯蒙德先生她可以依靠的朋友。这一次并不是什么大事。即使涉及更多，她也不会试图发光。来访者身上有某种东西让她感到惊讶，让她感到悬念，这使得她给他留下一个印象比她自己留下一个印象更重要。此外，她没有什么技巧来给人留下她知道是预料之中的印象：一般来说，没有什么比看起来令人眼花缭乱更幸福的了，但她却顽固地不愿意通过安排而闪闪发光。公平地说，奥斯蒙德先生有一种有教养的神态，不抱任何期待，一种安静的轻松涵盖了一切，甚至包括他自己的智慧的第一次展示。当他的脸、他的头很敏感时，这一点就更令人感激了。他并不英俊，但他很优秀，就像乌菲兹美术馆桥上长长的画廊里的一幅图画一样优秀。他的声音本身就很好听——更奇怪的是，尽管很清晰，但不知何故并不甜美。 这确实是为了让她不去干涉。他的声音是玻璃的振动，如果她伸出手指，她可能会改变音调并破坏音乐会。但在他走之前，她必须说话。

‘Madame Merle,’ he said, ‘consents to come up to my hill-top some day next week and drink tea in my garden. It would give me much pleasure if you would come with her. It’s thought rather prettythere’s what they call a general view. My daughter too would be so glad—or rather, for she’s too young to have strong emotions, I should be so glad—so very glad.’ And Mr. Osmond paused with a slight air of embarrassment, leaving his sentence unfinished.
“梅尔夫人，”他说，“同意下周的某一天到我的山顶来，在我的花园里喝茶。如果你能和她一起去，我会很高兴。人们认为这很漂亮，这就是他们所谓的普遍观点。我的女儿也会很高兴——或者更确切地说，因为她还太小，没有强烈的情感，我应该很高兴——非常高兴。”奥斯蒙德先生停了下来，带着一丝尴尬，没有说完。

‘I should be so happy if you could know my daughter,’ he went on a moment afterwards.
“如果你能认识我的女儿，我会很高兴，”过了一会儿他继续说道。

Isabel replied that she should be delighted to see Miss Osmond and that if Madame Merle would show her the way to the hill-top she should be very grateful. Upon this assurance the visitor took his leave; after which Isabel fully expected her friend would scold her for having been so stupid. But to her surprise that lady, who indeed never fell into the mere matter-of-course, said to her in a few moments: ‘You were charming, my dear; you were just as one would have wished you. You’re never disappointing.’
伊莎贝尔回答说，她应该很高兴见到奥斯蒙德小姐，如果梅尔夫人能带她去山顶，她会非常感激。得到这个保证之后，访客就告辞了。此后，伊莎贝尔完全预料到她的朋友会斥责她如此愚蠢。但令她惊讶的是，这位女士确实从来没有陷入理所当然的境地，但过了一会儿，她就对她说：“你很迷人，亲爱的；你正如人们所希望的那样。你永远不会让人失望。

A rebuke might possibly have been irritating, though it is much more probable that Isabel would have taken it in good part; but, strange to say, the words that Madame Merle actually used caused her the first feeling of displeasure she had known this ally to excite. ‘That’s more than I intended,’ she answered coldly. ‘I’m under no obligation that I know of to charm Mr. Osmond.’
责备可能会令人恼火，尽管伊莎贝尔更有可能接受。但奇怪的是，梅尔夫人实际使用的这句话却让她第一次感到不悦，这是她所知道的这个盟友所激起的。 “这超出了我的预期。”她冷冷地回答。 “据我所知，我没有义务去吸引奥斯蒙德先生。”

Madame Merle perceptibly flushed, but we know it was not her habit to retract. ‘My dear child, I didn’t speak for him, poor man; I spoke for yourself. It’s not of course a question as to his liking you; it matters little whether he likes you or not! But I thought you liked him.’
梅尔夫人明显脸红了，但我们知道她不习惯退缩。 “我亲爱的孩子，我没有为他说话，可怜的人；我为你自己说话。这当然不是他喜不喜欢你的问题，而是他是否喜欢你的问题。他喜不喜欢你并不重要！但我以为你喜欢他。

‘I did,’ said Isabel honestly. ‘But I don’t see what that matters either.’
“我做到了，”伊莎贝尔诚实地说。 “但我也不明白这有什么重要。”

‘Everything that concerns you matters to me,’ Madame Merle returned with her weary nobleness; ‘especially when at the same time another old friend’s concerned.’
“与你有关的一切对我来说都很重要。”梅尔夫人带着她疲惫的高贵态度回答道。 “尤其是当另一个老朋友同时关心的时候。”

Whatever Isabel’s obligations may have been to Mr. Osmond, it must be admitted that she found them sufficient to lead her to put to Ralph sundry questions about him. She thought Ralph’s judgements distorted by his trials, but she flattered herself she had learned to make allowance for that.
无论伊莎贝尔对奥斯蒙德先生负有何种义务，必须承认，她发现这些义务足以引导她向拉尔夫提出有关他的各种问题。她认为拉尔夫的判断因他的考验而扭曲，但她自以为自己已经学会了体谅这一点。

‘Do I know him?’ said her cousin. ‘Oh, yes, I ‘know’ him; not well, but on the whole enough. I’ve never cultivated his society, and he apparently has never found mine indispensable to his happiness. Who is he, what is he? He’s a vague, unexplained American who has been living these thirty years, or less, in Italy. Why do I call him unexplained? Only as a cover for my ignorance; I don’t know his antecedents, his family, his origin. For all I do know he may be a prince in disguise; he rather looks like one, by the way—like a prince who has abdicated in a fit of fastidiousness and has been in a state of disgust ever since. He used to live in Rome; but of late years he has taken up his abode here; I remember hearing him say that Rome has grown vulgar. He has a great dread of vulgarity; that’s his special line; he hasn’t any other that I know of. He lives on his income, which I suspect of not being vulgarly large. He’s a poor but honest gentleman—that’s what he calls himself. He married young and lost his wife, and I believe he has a daughter. He also has a sister, who’s married to some small Count or other, of these parts; I remember meeting her of old. She’s nicer than he, I should think, but rather impossible. I remember there used to be some stories about her. I don’t think I recommend you to know her. But why don’t you ask Madame Merle about these people? She knows them all much better than I.’
“我认识他吗？”她的表弟问道。 “哦，是的，我‘认识’他；”不太好，但总体来说足够了。我从未与他交往过，而他显然也从未发现我的交往对于他的幸福来说是不可或缺的。他是谁，他是什么？他是一个模糊的、无法解释的美国人，在意大利生活了三十年或更短时间。为什么我说他不明所以？只是为了掩饰我的无知；我不知道他的来历，他的家庭，他的出身。据我所知，他可能是一位乔装的王子；顺便说一句，他看起来更像是一位因过分挑剔而退位的王子，从那时起就一直处于一种厌恶的状态。他曾经住在罗马；但近年来他已在这里定居。我记得听他说罗马变得粗俗了。他非常害怕粗俗。这是他的特殊路线；据我所知，他没有其他的。他靠自己的收入生活，我怀疑他的收入并不高。他是一位贫穷但诚实的绅士——他就是这么称呼自己的。他很早就结婚了，但失去了妻子，我相信他有一个女儿。他还有一个妹妹，嫁给了这些地方的某个小伯爵或其他人。我记得以前见过她。我想她比他好，但这是不可能的。我记得以前有一些关于她的故事。我不认为我建议你认识她。但你为什么不向梅尔夫人询问这些人的情况呢？她比我更了解他们。”

‘I ask you because I want your opinion as well as hers,’ said Isabel.
“我问你是因为我想听听你和她的意见，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘A fig for my opinion! If you fall in love with Mr. Osmond what will you care for that?’
‘无花果代表我的意见！如果你爱上奥斯蒙德先生，你会在乎什么呢？

‘Not much, probably. But meanwhile it has a certain importance. The more information one has about one’s dangers the better.’
“可能不多。”但同时它也具有一定的重要性。关于自己面临的危险，了解的信息越多越好。

‘I don’t agree to that—it may make them dangers. We know too much about people in these days; we hear too much. Our ears, our minds, our mouths, are stuffed with personalities. Don’t mind anything any one tells you about any one else. Judge every one and everything for yourself.’
“我不同意这一点——这可能会给他们带来危险。现在我们对人了解太多了；我们听得太多了。我们的耳朵、我们的思想、我们的嘴巴，都充满了个性。不要介意任何人告诉你关于其他人的任何事情。自己判断每一个人和每一件事。

‘That’s what I try to do,’ said Isabel; ‘but when you do that people call you conceited.’
“这就是我想做的事，”伊莎贝尔说。 “但当你这样做时，人们会说你自负。”

‘You’re not to mind them—that’s precisely my argument; not to mind what they say about yourself any more than what they say about your friend or your enemy.’
“你不应该介意他们——这正是我的论点；不要介意他们对你的评价，就像他们对你的朋友或敌人的评价一样。

Isabel considered. ‘I think you’re right; but there are some things I can’t help minding: for instance when my friend’s attacked or when I myself am praised.’
伊莎贝尔想了想。 '我想你是正确的;但有些事情我忍不住在意：例如当我的朋友受到攻击或我自己受到赞扬时。

‘Of course you’re always at liberty to judge the critic. Judge people as critics, however,’ Ralph added, ‘and you’ll condemn them all!’
“当然，你总是可以自由地评判批评家。然而，如果把人们当作批评者来评判，”拉尔夫补充道，“你就会谴责他们所有人！”

‘I shall see Mr. Osmond for myself,’ said Isabel. ‘I’ve promised to pay him a visit.’
“我要亲自去见奥斯蒙德先生，”伊莎贝尔说。 “我已经答应去拜访他了。”

‘To pay him a visit?’
“去拜访他吗？”

‘To go and see his view, his pictures, his daughter—I don’t know exactly what. Madame Merle’s to take me; she tells me a great many ladies call on him.’
“去看他的风景、他的照片、他的女儿——我不知道具体是什么。梅尔夫人要带我去；她告诉我有很多女士拜访他。

‘Ah, with Madame Merle you may go anywhere, de confiance,’ said Ralph. ‘She knows none but the best people.’
“啊，和梅尔夫人一起，你可以去任何地方，放心，”拉尔夫说。 “她只认识最优秀的人。”

Isabel said no more about Mr. Osmond, but she presently remarked to her cousin that she was not satisfied with his tone about Madame Merle. ‘It seems to me you insinuate things about her. I don’t know what you mean, but if you’ve any grounds for disliking her I think you should either mention them frankly or else say nothing at all.’
伊莎贝尔没有再谈论奥斯蒙德先生，但她立即对表弟说，她对他谈论梅尔夫人的语气不满意。 “在我看来，你暗示了有关她的事情。我不知道你的意思，但如果你有任何理由不喜欢她，我认为你应该坦率地提及它们，或者什么也不说。

Ralph, however, resented this charge with more apparent earnestness than he commonly used. ‘I speak of Madame Merle exactly as I speak to her: with an even exaggerated respect.’
然而，拉尔夫对这一指控的不满程度明显比平时更加​​强烈。 “我谈论梅尔夫人时就和我对她说话一模一样：带着甚至夸张的敬意。”

‘Exaggerated, precisely. That’s what I complain of.’
‘准确地说，是夸张了。这就是我抱怨的。

‘I do so because Madame Merle’s merits are exaggerated.’
“我这样做是因为梅尔夫人的优点被夸大了。”

‘By whom, pray? By me? If so I do her a poor service.’
‘请问是谁？由我？如果是这样的话，我就为她提供了很差的服务。

‘No, no; by herself.’
'不，不;由她自己。'

‘Ah, I protest!’ Isabel earnestly cried. ‘If ever there was a woman who made small claims-!’
“啊，我抗议！”伊莎贝尔真诚地喊道。 “如果有一个女人提出小要求的话——！”

‘You put your finger on it,’ Ralph interrupted. ‘Her modesty’s exaggerated. She has no business with small claims—she has a perfect right to make large ones.’
“你把手指放在上面，”拉尔夫打断道。 ‘她的谦虚有点夸张了。她与小额索赔无关——她完全有权利提出大额索赔。

‘Her merits are large then. You contradict yourself.’
‘那么她的功德就很大了。你自相矛盾。

‘Her merits are immense,’ said Ralph. ‘She’s indescribably blameless; a pathless desert of virtue; the only woman I know who never gives one a chance.’
“她的功绩是巨大的，”拉尔夫说。 “她无可形容地无可指责；道德的无路沙漠；我认识的唯一一个从不给别人机会的女人。

‘A chance for what?’
“什么机会？”

‘Well, say to call her a fool! She’s the only woman I know who has but that one little fault.’
‘好吧，就说骂她傻子吧！她是我认识的唯一一个除了这个小缺点之外的女人。

Isabel turned away with impatience. ‘I don’t understand you; you’re too paradoxical for my plain mind.’
伊莎贝尔不耐烦地转过身去。 ‘我不明白你；对于我朴素的头脑来说，你太自相矛盾了。

‘Let me explain. When I say she exaggerates I don’t mean it in the vulgar sense—that she boasts, overstates, gives too fine an account of herself. I mean literally that she pushes the search for perfection too far—that her merits are in themselves overstrained. She’s too good, too kind, too clever, too learned, too accomplished, too everything. She’s too complete, in a word. I confess to you that she acts on my nerves and that I feel about her a good deal as that intensely human Athenian felt about Aristides the Just.’
'让我解释。当我说她夸大其词时，我并不是指粗俗的意思——她夸耀、夸大、对自己的描述太过美好。我的意思是，她对完美的追求太过分了——她的优点本身就被过度强调了。她太好了，太善良了，太聪明了，太博学了，太有成就了，一切都太棒了。简而言之，她太完整了。我向你承认，她让我神经紧张，我对她的感觉就像那位充满人性的雅典人对正义者阿里斯蒂德斯的感觉一样。

Isabel looked hard at her cousin; but the mocking spirit, if it lurked in his words, failed on this occasion to peep from his face. ‘Do you wish Madame Merle to be banished?’
伊莎贝尔认真地看着她的表弟。不过，即使他的言语中潜藏着嘲讽的情绪，这次也没有从他的脸上显露出来。 “你希望梅尔夫人被放逐吗？”

‘By no means. She’s much too good company. I delight in Madame Merle,’ said Ralph Touchett simply.
'绝不是这样。她真是个好伙伴。我很喜欢梅尔夫人，”拉尔夫·图切特简单地说。

‘You’re very odious, sir!’ Isabel exclaimed. And then she asked him if he knew anything that was not to the honour of her brilliant friend.
“你太可恶了，先生！”伊莎贝尔惊呼道。然后她问他是否知道任何不利于她杰出朋友的事情。

‘Nothing whatever. Don’t you see that’s just what I mean? On the character of every one else you may find some little black speck; if I were to take half an hour to it, some day, I’ve no doubt I should be able to find one on yours. For my own, of course, I’m spotted like a leopard. But on Madame Merle’s nothing, nothing, nothing!’
‘没什么。难道你不明白我就是这个意思吗？在每个人的性格上你都可能发现一些小黑点；如果我花半个小时，有一天，我毫不怀疑我应该能够在你身上找到一个。当然，就我自己而言，我就像豹子一样被发现。但对于梅尔夫人来说，没什么，没什么，没什么！”

‘That’s just what I think!’ said Isabel with a toss of her head. ‘That is why I like her so much.’
“我就是这么想的！”伊莎贝尔摇摇头说道。 “这就是为什么我这么喜欢她。”

‘She’s a capital person for you to know. Since you wish to see the world you couldn’t have a better guide.’
‘你要知道她是一个重要的人。既然你想看看这个世界，那么没有比这更好的向导了。”

‘I suppose you mean by that that she’s worldly?’
“我想你的意思是说她很世俗？”

‘Worldly? No,’ said Ralph, ‘she’s the great round world itself!’
'世俗？不，”拉尔夫说，“她就是伟大的圆形世界本身！”

It had certainly not, as Isabel for the moment took it into her head to believe, been a refinement of malice in him to say that he delighted in Madame Merle. Ralph Touchett took his refreshment wherever he could find it, and he would not have forgotten himself if he had been left wholly unbeguiled by such a mistress of the social art. There are deep-lying sympathies and antipathies, and it may have been that, in spite of the administered justice she enjoyed at his hands, her absence from his mother’s house would not have made life barren to him. But Ralph Touchett had learned more or less inscrutably to attend, and there could have been nothing so ‘sustained’ to attend to as the general performance of Madame Merle. He tasted her in sips, he let her stand, with an opportuneness she herself could not have surpassed. There were moments when he felt almost sorry for her; and these, oddly enough, were the moments when his kindness was least demonstrative. He was sure she had been yearningly ambitious and that what she had visibly accomplished was far below her secret measure. She had got herself into perfect training, but had won none of the prizes. She was always plain Madame Merle, the widow of a Swiss negociant, with a small income and a large acquaintance, who stayed with people a great deal and was almost as universally ‘liked’ as some new volume of smooth twaddle. The contrast between this position and any one of some half-dozen others that he supposed to have at various moments engaged her hope had an element of the tragical. His mother thought he got on beautifully with their genial guest; to Mrs. Touchett’s sense two persons who dealt so largely in too-ingenious theories of conductthat is of their own—would have much in common. He had given due consideration to Isabel’s intimacy with her eminent friend, having long since made up his mind that he could not, without opposition, keep his cousin to himself; and he made the best of it, as he had done of worse things. He believed it would take care of itself; it wouldn’t last forever. Neither of these two superior persons knew the other as well as she supposed, and when each had made an important discovery or two there would be, if not a rupture, at least a relaxation. Meanwhile he was quite willing to admit that the conversation of the elder lady was an advantage to the younger, who had a great deal to learn and would doubtless learn it better from Madame Merle than from some other instructors of the young. It was not probable that Isabel would be injured.
伊莎贝尔当时认为，他说自己喜欢梅尔夫人，这肯定不是出于恶意。拉尔夫·图切特（Ralph Touchett）无论他能找到什么，都会带着他的茶点，如果他完全没有被这样一位社交艺术女主人所迷惑，他就不会忘记自己。内心深处存在着同情和反感，尽管她在他手中享有司法公正，但她离开母亲的家并不会让他的生活变得贫瘠。但拉尔夫·图切特或多或少已经不可思议地学会了出席，而且没有什么比梅尔夫人的总体表演更“持续”地关注了。他小口地品尝着她的味道，让她站起来，其恰到好处的程度是她自己无法超越的。有时他几乎为她感到难过。奇怪的是，这些都是他最不表现出善意的时刻。他确信她一直雄心勃勃，而且她所取得的明显成就远远低于她秘密衡量的目标。她接受了完美的训练，但没有赢得任何奖项。她一直是个普普通通的梅尔夫人，一位瑞士商人的遗孀，收入微薄，熟人众多，经常与人交往，几乎像一本新书般的废话一样受到普遍的“喜爱”。这个立场与他本应在不同时刻所采取的六种其他立场中的任何一个之间的对比，都引起了她的希望，具有悲剧性的元素。他的母亲认为他与这位和蔼可亲的客人相处得很好。在图切特夫人看来，两个人在很大程度上都在讨论自己的过于巧妙的行为理论，会有很多共同点。 他充分考虑到了伊莎贝尔与她杰出朋友的亲密关系，早就下定决心，如果没有反对，他不能把他的表弟留在自己身边。他充分利用了这一点，就像他曾经做过更糟糕的事情一样。他相信事情会自行解决。它不会永远持续下去。这两位高人都不像她想象的那样了解对方，当他们各自做出一两个重要的发现时，即使不是破裂，至少也会有所放松。与此同时，他也很愿意承认，老太太的谈话对年轻人来说是一个优势，年轻人有很多东西要学，毫无疑问，从梅尔夫人那里学得比从其他年轻人的导师那里学得更好。伊莎贝尔不太可能受伤。

Chapter 24
第24章

It would certainly have been hard to see what injury could arise to her from the visit she presently paid to Mr. Osmond’s hill-top. Nothing could have been more charming than this occasion—a soft afternoon in the full maturity of the Tuscan spring. The companions drove out of the Roman Gate, beneath the enormous blank superstructure which crowns the fine clear arch of that portal and makes it nakedly impressive, and wound between high-walled lanes into which the wealth of blossoming orchards overdrooped and flung a fragrance, until they reached the small superurban piazza, of crooked shape, where the long brown wall of the villa occupied in part by Mr. Osmond formed a principal, or at least a very imposing, object. Isabel went with her friend through a wide, high court, where a clear shadow rested below and a pair of light-arched galleries, facing each other above, caught the upper sunshine upon their slim columns and the flowering plants in which they were dressed. There was something grave and strong in the place; it looked somehow as if, once you were in, you would need an act of energy to get out. For Isabel, however, there was of course as yet no thought of getting out, but only of advancing. Mr. Osmond met her in the cold ante-chamber—it was cold even in the month of May—and ushered her, with her conductress, into the apartment to which we have already been introduced. Madame Merle was in front, and while Isabel lingered a little, talking with him, she went forward familiarly and greeted two persons who were seated in the saloon. One of these was little Pansy, on whom she bestowed a kiss; the other was a lady whom Mr. Osmond indicated to Isabel as his sister, the Countess Gemini.
当然，很难想象她目前访问奥斯蒙德先生的山顶会给她带来什么伤害。没有什么比这个场合更迷人的了——托斯卡纳春天完全成熟的一个柔和的下午。同伴们驶出了罗马门，在巨大的空白上层建筑下方，该建筑盖住了那扇精美透明的拱门，使其赤裸裸地令人印象深刻，并在高墙小巷之间蜿蜒，鲜花盛开的果园垂垂而下，散发出阵阵芬芳，直到他们到达了郊区的一个小广场，广场的形状是弯曲的，奥斯蒙德先生占据了部分别墅的棕色长墙，形成了一个主要的，或者至少是一个非常雄伟的物体。伊莎贝尔和她的朋友一起穿过一个宽阔的高院，下面有一个清晰的阴影，上面有一对彼此相对的浅拱形画廊，上面的阳光照在细长的柱子和他们所穿的开花植物上。这个地方有一种庄严而强烈的感觉。不知何故，似乎一旦你进去了，你就需要某种能量才能出去。然而，对于伊莎贝尔来说，当然还没有出去的念头，而只是前进。奥斯蒙德先生在寒冷的前厅遇见了她——即使是五月也很冷——并把她和她的女售票员领进了我们已经介绍过的公寓。梅尔夫人在前面，伊莎贝尔在与他交谈的时候逗留了一会儿，然后她亲切地走上前去，向坐在客厅里的两个人打招呼。其中之一就是小潘西，她亲吻了她。另一位是奥斯蒙德先生向伊莎贝尔表示的一位女士，即双子伯爵夫人。

‘And that’s my little girl,’ he said, ‘who has just come out of her convent.’
“那是我的小女儿，”他说，“她刚刚从修道院出来。”

Pansy had on a scant white dress, and her fair hair was neatly arranged in a net; she wore her small shoes tied sandal-fashion about her ankles. She made Isabel a little conventual curtsey and then came to be kissed. The Countess Gemini simply nodded without getting up: Isabel could see she was a woman of high fashion. She was thin and dark and not at all pretty, having features that suggested some tropical bird—a long beak-like nose, small, quickly-moving eyes and a mouth and chin that receded extremely. Her expression, however, thanks to various intensities of emphasis and wonder, of horror and joy, was not inhuman, and, as regards her appearance, it was plain she understood herself and made the most of her points. Her attire, voluminous and delicate, bristling with elegance, had the look of shimmering plumage, and her attitudes were as light and sudden as those of a creature who perched upon twigs. She had a great deal of manner; Isabel, who had never known any one with so much manner, immediately classed her as the most affected of women. She remembered that Ralph had not recommended her as an acquaintance; but she was ready to acknowledge that to a casual view the Countess Gemini revealed no depths. Her demonstrations suggested the violent waving of some flag of general truce—white silk with fluttering streamers.
潘西穿着一件白色的短裙，金色的头发整齐地盘成网状。她穿着一双小鞋子，像凉鞋一样系在脚踝上。她向伊莎贝尔行了一个小小的屈膝礼，然后过来接受亲吻。双子伯爵夫人只是点了点头，没有起身：伊莎贝尔看得出她是一位高级时尚的女人。她又瘦又黑，一点也不漂亮，五官让人想起某种热带鸟类——长喙般的鼻子，小而快速转动的眼睛，嘴巴和下巴极度后缩。然而，由于强调和惊奇、恐惧和喜悦的不同强度，她的表情并不是不人道的，而且就她的外表而言，很明显她了解自己并充分利用了她的观点。她的衣着丰盈而精致，充满了优雅，看起来羽毛闪闪发光，她的态度就像栖息在树枝上的生物一样轻盈而突然。她很有礼貌。伊莎贝尔从来没有认识过任何一个如此有礼貌的人，她立即将她列为最受影响的女性。她记得拉尔夫并没有推荐她作为熟人；但她也准备承认，从不经意的角度来看，双子座伯爵夫人并没有透露出任何深度。她的示威表明，人们猛烈地挥舞着某种全面休战的旗帜——带有飘扬的彩带的白色丝绸旗帜。

‘You’ll believe I’m glad to see you when I tell you it’s only because I knew you were to be here that I came myself. I don’t come and see my brother—I make him come and see me. This hill of his is impossible—I don’t see what possesses him. Really, Osmond, you’ll be the ruin of my horses some day, and if it hurts them you’ll have to give me another pair. I heard them wheezing to-day; I assure you I did. It’s very disagreeable to hear one’s horses wheezing when one’s sitting in the carriage; it sounds too as if they weren’t what they should be. But I’ve always had good horses; whatever else I may have lacked I’ve always managed that. My husband doesn’t know much, but I think he knows a horse. In general Italians don’t, but my husband goes in, according to his poor light, for everything English. My horses are English—so it’s all the greater pity they should be ruined. I must tell you,’ she went on, directly addressing Isabel, ‘that Osmond doesn’t often invite me; I don’t think he likes to have me. It was quite my own idea, coming to-day. I like to see new people, and I’m sure you’re very new. But don’t sit there; that chair’s not what it looks. There are some very good seats here, but there are also some horrors.’
“当我告诉你，我自己来只是因为知道你会在这里时，你就会相信我很高兴见到你。我不是来看我哥哥的——我让他来看我。他的这座山是不可能的——我不明白是什么控制了他。真的，奥斯蒙德，有一天你会毁了我的马，如果它伤害了它们，你就得再给我一对。今天我听到他们喘息；我向你保证我做到了。坐在马车里听到马匹的喘息声是很不舒服的；听起来好像他们也不是他们应该的样子。但我一直都有好马；无论我还缺少什么，我总是能做到。我丈夫知道的不多，但我认为他了解一匹马。一般来说，意大利人不喜欢，但我丈夫，根据他可怜的眼光，喜欢所有英国人的东西。我的马是英国的——所以它们被毁掉就更可惜了。我必须告诉你，”她继续说道，直接对伊莎贝尔说，“奥斯蒙德并不经常邀请我；他经常邀请我。我觉得他不喜欢和我在一起。这完全是我自己的想法，今天就来了。我喜欢结识新朋友，我相信你也很新。但不要坐在那里；那把椅子不是它看起来的那样。这里有一些非常好的座位，但也有一些恐怖的地方。

These remarks were delivered with a series of little jerks and pecks, of roulades of shrillness, and in an accent that was as some fond recall of good English, or rather of good American, in adversity.
这些言论是伴随着一系列轻微的抽搐和啄击声、尖锐的肉卷声而发表的，其口音让人想起逆境中的好英语，或者更确切地说是好美国人。

‘I don’t like to have you, my dear?’ said her brother. ‘I’m sure you’re invaluable.’
“我不喜欢和你在一起，亲爱的？”她哥哥说。 “我确信你是无价之宝。”

‘I don’t see any horrors anywhere,’ Isabel returned, looking about her. ‘Everything seems to me beautiful and precious.’
“我在任何地方都没有看到任何恐怖，”伊莎贝尔环顾四周回答道。 “在我看来，一切都是美丽而珍贵的。”

‘I’ve a few good things,’ Mr. Osmond allowed; ‘indeed I’ve nothing very bad. But I’ve not what I should have liked.’
“我有一些好东西，”奥斯蒙德先生承认。 ‘确实，我没有什么不好的。但我没有得到我应该喜欢的东西。

He stood there a little awkwardly, smiling and glancing about; his manner was an odd mixture of the detached and the involved. He seemed to hint that nothing but the right ‘values’ was of any consequence. Isabel made a rapid induction: perfect simplicity was not the badge of his family. Even the little girl from the convent, who, in her prim white dress, with her small submissive face and her hands locked before her, stood there as if she were about to partake of her first communion, even Mr. Osmond’s diminutive daughter had a kind of finish that was not entirely artless.
他有点尴尬地站在那里，微笑着环顾四周。他的态度很奇怪，既冷漠又投入。他似乎暗示，只有正确的“价值观”才是最重要的。伊莎贝尔迅速做出归纳：完美的朴素并不是他家族的标志。就连修道院里的小女孩，穿着端庄的白色连衣裙，小脸顺从，双手紧扣在身前，站在那里，仿佛即将参加她的第一次圣餐，就连奥斯蒙德先生的娇小的女儿也有一种一种并非完全朴素的饰面。

‘You’d have liked a few things from the Uffizi and the Pitti—that’s what you’d have liked,’ said Madame Merle.
“你会喜欢乌菲兹美术馆和皮蒂美术馆的一些东西——那就是你会喜欢的，”梅尔夫人说。

‘Poor Osmond, with his old curtains and crucifixes!’ the Countess Gemini exclaimed: she appeared to call her brother only by his family-name. Her ejaculation had no particular object; she smiled at Isabel as she made it and looked at her from head to foot.
“可怜的奥斯蒙德，还有他的旧窗帘和十字架！”双子伯爵夫人惊呼道：她似乎只用他的姓氏来称呼她的兄弟。她的射精没有特定的目的；当伊莎贝尔做到这一点时，她微笑着，从头到脚地打量着她。

Her brother had not heard her; he seemed to be thinking what he could say to Isabel:
她哥哥没有听见她说话。他似乎在思考他该对伊莎贝尔说些什么：

‘Won’t you have some tea?—you must be very tired,’ he at last bethought himself of remarking.
“你不喝点茶吗？——你一定很累了，”他最后想起自己说的话。

‘No, indeed, I’m not tired; what have I done to tire me?’ Isabel felt a certain need of being very direct, of pretending to nothing; there was something in the air, in her general impression of thingsshe could hardly have said what it was—that deprived her of all disposition to put herself forward. The place, the occasion, the combination of people, signified more than lay on the surface; she would try to understand—she would not simply utter graceful platitudes. Poor Isabel was doubtless not aware that many women would have uttered graceful platitudes to cover the working of their observation. It must be confessed that her pride was a trifle alarmed. A man she had heard spoken of in terms that excited interest and who was evidently capable of distinguishing himself, had invited her, a young lady not lavish of her favours, to come to his house. Now that she had done so the burden of the entertainment rested naturally on his wit. Isabel was not rendered less observant, and for the moment, we judge, she was not rendered more indulgent, by perceiving that Mr. Osmond carried his burden less complacently than might have been expected. ‘What a fool I was to have let myself so needlessly in-!’ she could fancy his exclaiming to himself.
“不，确实，我不累；我不累。” “我做了什么让我感到疲倦的事？”伊莎贝尔觉得有必要非常直接，假装什么也没有。空气中弥漫着某种东西，在她对事物的总体印象中，她几乎无法说出那是什么——这使她失去了展现自己的所有倾向。地点、场合、人物的组合，其意义不只是表面上的。她会尝试去理解——她不会简单地说一些优雅的陈词滥调。可怜的伊莎贝尔无疑没有意识到，许多妇女会用优雅的陈词滥调来掩盖她们的观察结果。必须承认，她的自尊心有点受到惊吓。她曾听到一个男人用令人兴奋的词语谈论他，而且他显然能够脱颖而出，他邀请她这个不吝惜恩惠的年轻女士去他家。既然她已经这样做了，娱乐的重担自然就落在了他的智慧上。伊莎贝尔并没有变得不那么细心，而且就目前而言，我们判断，她并没有变得更加宽容，因为她意识到奥斯蒙德先生承担着他的重担，不像预期的那么自满。 “我真是个傻瓜，居然让自己如此不必要地进来——！”她能想象出他对自己的惊呼。

‘You’ll be tired when you go home, if he shows you all his bibelots and gives you a lecture on each,’ said the Countess Gemini.
“如果他向你展示他所有的比贝洛特，并就每一个比贝洛特进行讲座，那么当你回家时你会很累，”双子伯爵夫人说。

‘I’m not afraid of that; but if I’m tired I shall at least have learned something.’
‘我不怕这个；但如果我累了，我至少会学到一些东西。”

‘Very little, I suspect. But my sister’s dreadfully afraid of learning anything,’ said Mr. Osmond.
“我怀疑，很少。”但我姐姐非常害怕学到任何东西，”奥斯蒙德先生说。

‘Oh, I confess to that; I don’t want to know anything more—I know too much already. The more you know the more unhappy you are.’
‘哦，我承认这一点；我不想知道更多了——我已经知道太多了。你知道的越多，你就越不快乐。

‘You should not undervalue knowledge before Pansy, who has not finished her education,’ Madame Merle interposed with a smile.
“在没有完成学业的潘西面前，你不应该低估知识。”梅尔夫人微笑着插嘴。

‘Pansy will never know any harm,’ said the child’s father. ‘Pansy’s a little convent-flower.’
“潘西永远不会受到任何伤害，”孩子的父亲说。 “三色堇是一朵小修道院花。”

‘Oh, the convents, the convents!’ cried the Countess with a flutter of her ruffles. ‘Speak to me of the convents! You may learn anything there; I’m a convent-flower myself. I don’t pretend to be good, but the nuns do. Don’t you see what I mean?’ she went on, appealing to Isabel.
“哦，修道院，修道院！”伯爵夫人大声喊道，荷叶边飘动起来。 ‘跟我谈谈修道院吧！你可以在那里学到任何东西；我自己就是一朵修道院之花。我不假装善良，但修女们却假装善良。你不明白我的意思吗？”她继续向伊莎贝尔求助。

Isabel was not sure she saw, and she answered that she was very bad at following arguments. The Countess then declared that she herself detested arguments, but that this was her brother’s tastehe would always discuss. ‘For me,’ she said, ‘one should like a thing or one shouldn’t; one can’t like everything, of course. But one shouldn’t attempt to reason it out—you never know where it may lead you. There are some very good feelings that may have bad reasons, don’t you know? And then there are very bad feelings, sometimes, that have good reasons. Don’t you see what I mean? I don’t care anything about reasons, but I know what I like.’
伊莎贝尔不确定她是否看到了，她回答说她很不擅长跟踪争论。伯爵夫人随后宣称，她自己讨厌争论，但这是她哥哥的品味，他总是会讨论。 “对我来说，”她说，“一个人应该喜欢一件事，或者不应该喜欢一件事；当然，一个人不可能喜欢一切。但人们不应该试图推理出来——你永远不知道它会把你引向何方。有些很好的感觉可能有不好的理由，你不知道吗？有时，会有非常糟糕的感觉，但有充分的理由。你不明白我的意思吗？我不在乎任何理由，但我知道我喜欢什么。

‘Ah, that’s the great thing,’ said Isabel, smiling and suspecting that her acquaintance with this lightly-flitting personage would not lead to intellectual repose. If the Countess objected to argument Isabel at this moment had as little taste for it, and she put out her hand to Pansy with a pleasant sense that such a gesture committed her to nothing that would admit of a divergence of views. Gilbert Osmond apparently took a rather hopeless view of his sister’s tone; he turned the conversation to another topic. He presently sat down on the other side of his daughter, who had shyly brushed Isabel’s fingers with her own; but he ended by drawing her out of her chair and making her stand between his knees, leaning against him while he passed his arm round her slimness. The child fixed her eyes on Isabel with a still, disinterested gaze which seemed void of an intention, yet conscious of an attraction. Mr. Osmond talked of many things; Madame Merle had said he could be agreeable when he chose, and to-day, after a little, he appeared not only to have chosen but to have determined. Madame Merle and the Countess Gemini sat a little apart, conversing in the effortless manner of persons who knew each other well enough to take their ease; but every now and then Isabel heard the Countess, at something said by her companion, plunge into the latter’s lucidity as a poodle splashes after a thrown stick. It was as if Madame Merle were seeing how far she would go. Mr. Osmond talked of Florence, of Italy, of the pleasure of living in that country and of the abatements to the pleasure. There were both satisfactions and drawbacks; the drawbacks were numerous; strangers were too apt to see such a world as all romantic. It met the case soothingly for the human, for the social failure—by which he meant the people who couldn’t ‘realize,’ as they said, on their sensibility: they could keep it about them there, in their poverty, without ridicule, as you might keep an heirloom or an inconvenient entailed place that brought you in nothing. Thus there were advantages in living in the country which contained the greatest sum of beauty. Certain impressions you could get only there. Others, favourable to life, you never got, and you got some that were very bad. But from time to time you got one of a quality that made up for everything. Italy, all the same, had spoiled a great many people; he was even fatuous enough to believe at times that he himself might have been a better man if he had spent less of his life there. It made one idle and dilettantish and second-rate; it had no discipline for the character, didn’t cultivate in you, otherwise expressed, the successful social and other ‘cheek’ that flourished in Paris and London. ‘We’re sweetly provincial,’ said Mr. Osmond, ‘and I’m perfectly aware that I myself am as rusty as a key that has no lock to fit it. It polishes me up a little to talk with you—not that I venture to pretend I can turn that very complicated lock I suspect your intellect of being! But you’ll be going away before I’ve seen you three times, and I shall perhaps never see you after that. That’s what it is to live in a country that people come to. When they’re disagreeable here it’s bad enough; when they’re agreeable it’s still worse. As soon as you like them they’re off again! I’ve been deceived too often; I’ve ceased to form attachments, to permit myself to feel attractions. You mean to stay—to settle? That would be really comfortable. Ah yes, your aunt’s a sort of guarantee; I believe she may be depended on. Oh, she’s an old Florentine; I mean literally an old one; not a modern outsider. She’s a contemporary of the Medici; she must have been present at the burning of Savonarola, and I’m not sure she didn’t throw a handful of chips into the flame. Her face is very much like some faces in the early pictures; little, dry, definite faces that must have had a good deal of expression, but almost always the same one. Indeed I can show you her portrait in a fresco of Ghirlandaio’s. I hope you don’t object to my speaking that way of your aunt, eh? I’ve an idea you don’t. Perhaps you think that’s even worse. I assure you there’s no want of respect in it, to either of you. You know I’m a particular admirer of Mrs. Touchett.’
“啊，那真是太好了，”伊莎贝尔微笑着说道，她怀疑自己与这个轻快的人物的相识不会给她带来理智上的平静。如果伯爵夫人反对争论，伊莎贝尔此刻对此也没什么兴趣，她向潘西伸出手，愉快地感觉到，这样的举动不会让她陷入任何允许观点分歧的情况。吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德显然对他妹妹的语气持相当绝望的态度。他把话题转到了另一个话题。不久，他在女儿的另一边坐下，女儿害羞地用自己的手指擦过伊莎贝尔的手指。但最后他把她从椅子上拉起来，让她站在他的膝盖之间，靠在他身上，同时用手臂搂住她苗条的身躯。孩子用一种平静、漠然的目光注视着伊莎贝尔，眼神似乎没有任何意图，但却意识到了一种吸引力。奥斯蒙德先生谈到了很多事情；梅尔夫人说过，只要他选择，他就会同意，而今天，过了一会儿，他似乎不仅做出了选择，而且已经下定决心了。梅尔夫人和双子座伯爵夫人坐得稍远，以一种彼此很熟悉、可以轻松自在的方式轻松交谈。但伊莎贝尔时不时地听到伯爵夫人听到同伴说的话，就会陷入后者的清醒之中，就像贵宾犬追赶一根棍子时溅起水花一样。梅尔夫人似乎在预见自己能走多远。奥斯蒙德先生谈到了佛罗伦萨、意大利、生活在那个国家的乐趣以及乐趣的减少。既有满意的地方，也有不足的地方。缺点很多；陌生人很容易将这样的世界视为浪漫的。 它满足了人类、社会失败的需要——他指的是那些无法“意识到”他们的情感的人：他们可以在贫困中将其保留在那里，而不会受到嘲笑。 ，因为你可能会保留一件传家宝或一个不方便的地方，但不会给你带来任何好处。因此，生活在这个拥有最美丽景色的国家是有好处的。某些印象只有在那里才能获得。其他一些对生活有利的东西，你却从未得到过，而且你得到了一些非常糟糕的东西。但有时你会得到一种可以弥补一切的品质。尽管如此，意大利还是宠坏了很多人。他有时甚至愚蠢地相信，如果他在那里度过的时间少一些，他自己可能会成为一个更好的人。它使人变得懒惰、肤浅、二流。它没有对角色的训练，没有培养你在巴黎和伦敦盛行的成功的社交和其他“厚颜无耻”，换句话说。 “我们真是太乡土了，”奥斯蒙德先生说，“而我完全清楚，我自己就像一把没有锁的钥匙一样生锈了。”和你谈话让我精神焕发了一点——并不是说我冒昧地假装我可以转动那把非常复杂的锁，我怀疑你的智慧！但我还没见过你三面，你就会走开，之后我也许就再也见不到你了。这就是生活在一个人们来到的国家的感觉。当他们在这里不愉快时，那就够糟糕了；当他们同意的时候，情况就更糟了。一旦您喜欢它们，它们就会再次关闭！我被骗的次数太多了；我不再形成依恋，让自己感受到吸引力。你打算留下来定居吗？那样的话就真的很舒服了。 啊，是的，你姨妈是一种保证；我相信她是值得依赖的。哦，她是一位老佛罗伦萨人；我的意思是字面上的旧的；不是现代的局外人。她是美第奇家族的同时代人。她一定在萨沃纳罗拉焚烧现场，而且我不确定她有没有往火里扔一把木片。她的脸很像早期照片中的一些脸；一张张小而干燥、表情明确的面孔，脸上一定有很多表情，但几乎总是一样的。事实上，我可以向您展示基尔兰达约壁画中她的肖像。我希望你不要反对我这样说你阿姨，嗯？我有一个你没有的想法。也许你认为这更糟糕。我向你们保证，这并不是对你们任何一个人缺乏尊重。你知道我特别崇拜图切特夫人。’

While Isabel’s host exerted himself to entertain her in this somewhat confidential fashion she looked occasionally at Madame Merle, who met her eyes with an inattentive smile in which, on this occasion, there was no infelicitous intimation that our heroine appeared to advantage. Madame Merle eventually proposed to the Countess Gemini that they should go into the garden, and the Countess, rising and shaking out her feathers, began to rustle toward the door. ‘Poor Miss Archer!’ she exclaimed, surveying the other group with expressive compassion. ‘She has been brought quite into the family.’
当伊莎贝尔的主人尽力以这种有点保密的方式招待她时，她偶尔看看梅尔夫人，梅尔夫人带着漫不经心的微笑与她对视，在这种情况下，我们的女主角似乎没有任何不恰当的暗示。梅尔夫人最终向双子伯爵夫人提议，他们应该去花园里，伯爵夫人站起身来，抖掉羽毛，开始沙沙地向门口走去。 “可怜的阿切尔小姐！”她大声说道，同时用富有同情心的目光打量着另一群人。 “她已经融入了这个家庭。”

‘Miss Archer can certainly have nothing but sympathy for a family to which you belong,’ Mr. Osmond answered, with a laugh which, though it had something of a mocking ring, had also a finer patience.
“阿切尔小姐当然只能对你所属的家庭表示同情，”奥斯蒙德先生回答道，他笑起来，虽然带着一丝嘲讽的味道，但也更有耐心。

‘I don’t know what you mean by that! I’m sure she’ll see no harm in me but what you tell her. I’m better than he says, Miss Archer,’ the Countess went on. ‘I’m only rather an idiot and a bore. Is that all he has said? Ah then, you keep him in good-humour. Has he opened on one of his favourite subjects? I give you notice that there are two or three that he treats a fond. In that case you had better take off your bonnet.’
‘我不知道你这是什么意思！我确信除了你告诉她的事情之外，她不会认为我有什么坏处。我比他说的要好，阿切尔小姐，”伯爵夫人继续说道。 “我只是个白痴和无聊的人。”这就是他所说的一切吗？啊，那你就让他保持愉快的心情吧。他开始谈论他最喜欢的科目之一了吗？我告诉你，有两三个是他最喜欢的。在这种情况下，你最好把帽子摘下来。

‘I don’t think I know what Mr. Osmond’s favourite subjects are,’ said Isabel, who had risen to her feet.
“我想我不知道奥斯蒙德先生最喜欢的科目是什么，”伊莎贝尔站了起来说道。

The Countess assumed for an instant an attitude of intense meditation, pressing one of her hands, with the finger-tips gathered together, to her forehead. ‘I’ll tell you in a moment. One’s Machiavelli; the other’s Vittoria Colonna; the next is Metastasio.’
伯爵夫人立刻摆出一种认真冥想的态度，用一只手按着额头，指尖并拢。 ‘我一会儿就告诉你。一个是马基雅维利；另一个是维多利亚·科隆纳；下一个是 Metastasio。

‘Ah, with me,’ said Madame Merle, passing her arm into the Countess Gemini’s as if to guide her course to the garden, ‘Mr. Osmond’s never so historical.’
“啊，跟我一起，”梅尔夫人说着，将手臂伸进了双子座伯爵夫人的手臂，仿佛要引导她走向花园，“先生。”奥斯蒙德从未如此具有历史意义。

‘Oh you,’ the Countess answered as they moved away, ‘you yourself are Machiavelli—you yourself are Vittoria Colonna!’
“哦，你，”他们走开时伯爵夫人回答道，“你自己就是马基雅维利——你自己就是维多利亚·科隆纳！”

‘We shall hear next that poor Madame Merle is Metastasio!’ Gilbert Osmond resignedly sighed.
“接下来我们就会听说可怜的梅尔夫人就是梅塔斯塔西奥！”吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德无奈地叹了口气。

Isabel had got up on the assumption that they too were to go into the garden; but her host stood there with no apparent inclination to leave the room, his hands in the pockets of his jacket and his daughter, who had now locked her arm into one of his own, clinging to him and looking up while her eyes moved from his own face to Isabel’s. Isabel waited, with a certain unuttered contentedness, to have her movements directed; she liked Mr. Osmond’s talk, his company: she had what always gave her a very private thrill, the consciousness of a new relation. Through the open doors of the great room she saw Madame Merle and the Countess stroll across the fine grass of the garden; then she turned, and her eyes wandered over the things scattered about her. The understanding had been that Mr. Osmond should show her his treasures; his pictures and cabinets all looked like treasures. Isabel after a moment went toward one of the pictures to see it better; but just as she had done so he said to her abruptly: ‘Miss Archer, what do you think of my sister?’
伊莎贝尔起身以为他们也要去花园。但她的主人站在那儿，没有明显想要离开房间的意思，他的双手插在夹克的口袋里，而他的女儿现在已经将她的手臂锁在他的一只手上，紧贴着他，抬起头，而她的目光却从他身上移开。自己的脸面对伊莎贝尔的脸。伊莎贝尔怀着一种难以言表的满足，等待着指挥她的行动。她喜欢奥斯蒙德先生的谈话，喜欢他的陪伴：她有一种总是给她一种非常私密的兴奋感，一种新关系的意识。透过大房间敞开的门，她看到梅尔夫人和伯爵夫人在花园的细草上漫步。然后她转过身来，目光扫视着她周围散落的东西。大家的理解是，奥斯蒙德先生应该向她展示他的宝藏；但他并没有这么做。他的画和橱柜看起来都像宝藏。过了一会儿，伊莎贝尔走到其中一幅画前，想看得更清楚。但正当她这样做时，他突然对她说：“阿切尔小姐，你觉得我妹妹怎么样？”

She faced him with some surprise. ‘Ah, don’t ask me that—I’ve seen your sister too little.’
她面对他有些惊讶。 “啊，别问我这个问题——我见你妹妹的次数太少了。”

‘Yes, you’ve seen her very little; but you must have observed that there is not a great deal of her to see. What do you think of our family tone?’ he went on with his cool smile. ‘I should like to know how it strikes a fresh, unprejudiced mind. I know what you’re going to say—you’ve had almost no observation of it. Of course this is only a glimpse. But just take notice, in future, if you have a chance. I sometimes think we’ve got into a rather bad way, living off here among things and people not our own, without responsibilities or attachments, with nothing to hold us together or keep us up; marrying foreigners, forming artificial tastes, playing tricks with our natural mission. Let me add, though, that I say that much more for myself than for my sister. She’s a very honest lady—more so than she seems. She’s rather unhappy, and as she’s not of a serious turn she doesn’t tend to show it tragically: she shows it comically instead. She has got a horrid husband, though I’m not sure she makes the best of him. Of course, however, a horrid husband’s an awkward thing. Madame Merle gives her excellent advice, but it’s a good deal like giving a child a dictionary to learn a language with. He can look out the words, but he can’t put them together. My sister needs a grammar, but unfortunately she’s not grammatical. Pardon my troubling you with these details; my sister was very right in saying you’ve been taken into the family. Let me take down that picture; you want more light.’
“是的，你很少见到她；但你一定已经注意到，她身上可看的东西并不多。你觉得我们的家庭氛围怎么样？”他带着冷静的微笑继续说道。 “我想知道它如何触动一个新鲜的、不带偏见的头脑。我知道你要说什么——你几乎没有观察到它。当然这只是一瞥。但请注意，将来如果有机会的话。有时我觉得我们已经陷入了一种相当糟糕的境地，生活在不属于我们自己的事物和人中间，没有责任或依恋，没有任何东西可以让我们团结在一起或让我们继续前进;与外国人结婚，形成人造品味，玩弄我们的自然使命。不过，我要补充一点，我这么说更多是为了我自己，而不是为了我妹妹。她是一位非常诚实的女士——比她看上去的更诚实。她相当不高兴，而且由于她不是一个严肃的人，所以她不倾向于表现出悲剧性：相反，她表现得滑稽。她有一个可怕的丈夫，尽管我不确定她是否充分利用了他。当然，然而，一个可怕的丈夫是一件尴尬的事情。梅尔夫人给出了极好的建议，但这就像给孩子一本用来学习语言的字典一样好。他可以看懂单词，但无法将它们组合在一起。我姐姐需要语法，但不幸的是她不懂语法。请原谅我因这些细节而打扰您；我姐姐说得非常对，你已经被纳入这个家庭了。让我把那张照片取下来；你想要更多的光。

He took down the picture, carried it toward the window, related some curious facts about it. She looked at the other works of art, and he gave her such further information as might appear most acceptable to a young lady making a call on a summer afternoon. His pictures, his medallions and tapestries were interesting; but after a while Isabel felt the owner much more so, and independently of them, thickly as they seemed to overhang him. He resembled no one she had ever seen; most of the people she knew might be divided into groups of half a dozen specimens. There were one or two exceptions to this; she could think for instance of no group that would contain her aunt Lydia. There were other people who were, relatively speaking, originaloriginal, as one might say, by courtesy—such as Mr. Goodwood, as her cousin Ralph, as Henrietta Stackpole, as Lord Warburton, as Madame Merle. But in essentials, when one came to look at them, these individuals belonged to types already present to her mind. Her mind contained no class offering a natural place to Mr. Osmond—he was a specimen apart. It was not that she recognized all these truths at the hour, but they were falling into order before her. For the moment she only said to herself that this ‘new relation’ would perhaps prove her very most distinguished. Madame Merle had had that note of rarity, but what quite other power it immediately gained when sounded by a man! It was not so much what he said and did, but rather what he withheld, that marked him for her as by one of those signs of the highly curious that he was showing her on the underside of old plates and in the corner of sixteenth-century drawings: he indulged in no striking deflections from common usage, he was an original without being an eccentric. She had never met a person of so fine a grain. The peculiarity was physical, to begin with, and it extended to impalpabilities. His dense, delicate hair, his overdrawn, retouched features, his clear complexion, ripe without being coarse, the very evenness of the growth of his beard, and that light, smooth slenderness of structure which made the movement of a single one of his fingers produce the effect of an expressive gesturethese personal points struck our sensitive young woman as signs of quality, of intensity, somehow as promises of interest. He was certainly fastidious and critical; he was probably irritable. His sensibility had governed him—possibly governed him too much; it had made him impatient of vulgar troubles and had led him to live by himself, in a sorted, sifted, arranged world, thinking about art and beauty and history. He had consulted his taste in everything—his taste alone perhaps, as a sick man consciously incurable consults at last only his lawyer: that was what made him so different from every one else. Ralph had something of this same quality, this appearance of thinking that life was a matter of connoisseurship; but in Ralph it was an anomaly, a kind of humorous excrescence, whereas in Mr. Osmond it was the keynote, and everything was in harmony with it. She was certainly far from understanding him completely; his meaning was not at all times obvious. It was hard to see what he meant for instance by speaking of his provincial side—which was exactly the side she would have taken him most to lack. Was it a harmless paradox, intended to puzzle her? or was it the last refinement of high culture? She trusted she should learn in time; it would be very interesting to learn. If it was provincial to have that harmony, what then was the finish of the capital? And she could put this question in spite of so feeling her host a sly personage; since such shyness as his—the shyness of ticklish nerves and fine perceptions—was perfectly consistent with the best breeding. Indeed it was almost a proof of standards and touchstones other than the vulgar: he must be so sure the vulgar would be first on the ground. He wasn’t a man of easy assurance, who chatted and gossiped with the fluency of a superficial nature; he was critical of himself as well as of others, and, exacting a good deal of others, to think them agreeable, probably took a rather ironical view of what he himself offered: a proof into the bargain that he was not grossly conceited. If he had not been shy he wouldn’t have effected that gradual, subtle, successful conversion of it to which she owed both what pleased her in him and what mystified her. If he had suddenly asked her what she thought of the Countess Gemini, that was doubtless a proof that he was interested in her; it could scarcely be as a help to knowledge of his own sister. That he should be so interested showed an enquiring mind; but it was a little singular he should sacrifice his fraternal feeling to his curiosity. This was the most eccentric thing he had done.
他取下照片，把它拿到窗前，讲述了一些关于它的奇怪的事实。她看了看其他艺术品，他给了她一些对于夏日下午打电话的年轻女士来说最能接受的进一步信息。他的画作、奖章和挂毯都很有趣。但过了一会儿，伊莎贝尔感觉主人更是如此，而且独立于他们，因为他们似乎厚重地悬在他身上。她从来没有见过他像一个人。她认识的大多数人可能会被分成六组。但有一两个例外。例如，她想不出有哪个团体能容纳她的姨妈莉迪亚。相对而言，还有一些人是原创的，正如人们可能会说的那样，出于礼貌，比如古德伍德先生、她的表弟拉尔夫、亨利埃塔·斯塔克波尔、沃伯顿勋爵、梅尔夫人。但本质上，当人们仔细观察他们时，这些人都属于她脑海中已经出现的类型。她的脑子里没有任何阶级可以为奥斯蒙德先生提供一个自然的位置——他是一个与众不同的标本。并不是说她当时就认识到了所有这些真理，而是它们在她面前变得井然有序。目前她只对自己说，这种“新关系”也许会证明她是最杰出的。梅尔夫人曾有过这种罕见的声音，但当一个男人发出这种声音时，它立即获得了截然不同的力量！与其说他说了什么、做了什么，不如说他隐瞒了什么，这对她来说是他的标志，因为他在旧盘子的底面和十六号的角落里向她展示了一种高度好奇的迹象——世纪绘画：他没有沉迷于与常见用法的明显偏差，他是一个原创者，但并不古怪。 她从来没有遇到过如此优秀的人。首先，这种特殊性是物理性的，并且延伸到了不可触知的地方。他浓密而精致的头发，他透支修饰过的五官，他清澈的肤色，成熟而不粗糙，他的胡须生长得非常均匀，还有那轻盈、光滑、修长的结构，使他的一根手指都可以动起来。这些个人观点产生了一种富有表现力的姿态的效果，这些个人观点给我们敏感的年轻女性留下了深刻的印象，认为它们是品质、强度的标志，某种程度上也是兴趣的承诺。他确实很挑剔，也很挑剔。他可能很烦躁。他的感性支配了他——也许支配得太多了；他的情感支配了他。它使他对庸俗的烦恼失去耐心，并引导他独自生活在一个排序、筛选、安排的世界中，思考艺术、美和历史。他在一切事情上都咨询了自己的品味——也许只是他的品味，就像一个自觉无法治愈的病人最终只咨询了他的律师：这就是他与其他人如此不同的原因。拉尔夫也有同样的品质，他认为生活就是鉴赏力的问题。但在拉尔夫身上，这是一种反常现象，一种幽默的赘生物，而在奥斯蒙德先生身上，这是基调，一切都与之相协调。她当然还远没有完全理解他；她还没有完全理解他。他的意思并不总是显而易见的。例如，很难理解他所说的外省的一面是什么意思——这正是她认为他最缺乏的一面。这是一个无害的悖论，旨在让她困惑吗？或者说这是高雅文化最后的提炼？她相信自己应该及时学习；学习起来会很有趣。 如果这种和谐是外省的，那么首都的结局又如何呢？尽管她觉得主人是个狡猾的人物，但她还是可以提出这个问题；因为像他这样的害羞——由怕痒的神经和敏锐的感知引起的害羞——与最好的教养完全一致。事实上，这几乎是除粗俗之外的标准和试金石的证明：他一定非常确定粗俗会首先出现在地面上。他不是一个容易自信的人，不会流利地闲聊和闲聊，流利的流利是肤浅的。他对自己和他人都持批评态度，并且对他人提出了很多要求，让他们认为他们是令人愉快的，他可能对自己提出的观点持相当讽刺的态度：这证明了他并没有严重自负。如果他不是害羞的话，他就不会逐渐地、微妙地、成功地实现这种转变，正是这种转变让她既对他感到高兴，又让她感到困惑。如果他突然问她对双子伯爵夫人的看法，那无疑是他对她感兴趣的证据；这几乎不能帮助他了解自己的妹妹。他如此感兴趣，说明他有一颗探究的心。但他为了好奇心而牺牲了兄弟情谊，这有点奇怪。这是他做过的最古怪的事情。

There were two other rooms, beyond the one in which she had been received, equally full of romantic objects, and in these apartments Isabel spent a quarter of an hour. Everything was in the last degree curious and precious, and Mr. Osmond continued to be the kindest of ciceroni as he led her from one fine piece to another and still held his little girl by the hand. His kindness almost surprised our young friend, who wondered why he should take so much trouble for her; and she was oppressed at last with the accumulation of beauty and knowledge to which she found herself introduced. There was enough for the present; she had ceased to attend to what he said; she listened to him with attentive eyes, but was not thinking of what he told her. He probably thought her quicker, cleverer in every way, more prepared, than she was. Madame Merle would have pleasantly exaggerated; which was a pity, because in the end he would be sure to find out, and then perhaps even her real intelligence wouldn’t reconcile him to his mistake. A part of Isabel’s fatigue came from the effort to appear as intelligent as she believed Madame Merle had described her, and from the fear (very unusual with her) of exposing—not her ignorance; for that she cared comparatively little—but her possible grossness of perception. It would have annoyed her to express a liking for something he, in his superior enlightenment, would think she oughtn’t to like; or to pass by something at which the truly initiated mind would arrest itself. She had no wish to fall into that grotesqueness—in which she had seen women (and it was a warning) serenely, yet ignobly, flounder. She was very careful therefore as to what she said, as to what she noticed or failed to notice; more careful than she had ever been before.
除了接待她的那个房间之外，还有另外两个房间，同样充满了浪漫的物品，伊莎贝尔在这些公寓里度过了一刻钟。一切都非常好奇和珍贵，奥斯蒙德先生仍然是最仁慈的西塞罗尼，他带领她从一件精美的作品到另一件精美的作品，并且仍然牵着他的小女儿的手。他的善良几乎让我们年轻的朋友感到惊讶，他想知道为什么他要为她费这么大的劲。最后，她发现自己所接触到的美丽和知识的积累让她感到压抑。现在已经足够了。她已经不再注意他所说的话了。她用专注的目光听他说话，但没有去想他告诉她的事情。他可能认为她在各方面都比她更快、更聪明、更有准备。梅尔夫人可能会愉快地夸大其词。可惜的是，最终他一定会知道的，到时候也许连她真正的智慧都无法让他承认自己的错误。伊莎贝尔的疲劳部分来自于她努力表现得像梅尔夫人描述的那样聪明，以及害怕暴露自己的无知（这对她来说很不寻常），而不是她的无知；为此，她相对不太关心——只关心她可能的粗俗感知。如果他对某些东西表示喜欢，而他以他高超的悟性认为她不应该喜欢，那么她会感到恼火。或者经过一些真正有启发的头脑会停下来的东西。她不想陷入那种怪诞的境地——她曾见过女人（这是一个警告）平静地、但不光彩地挣扎着。因此，她对自己所说的话、注意到或没有注意到的事情非常小心。她比以往任何时候都更加小心。

They came back into the first of the rooms, where the tea had been served; but as the two other ladies were still on the terrace, and as Isabel had not yet been made acquainted with the view, the paramount distinction of the place, Mr. Osmond directed her steps into the garden without more delay. Madame Merle and the Countess had had chairs brought out, and as the afternoon was lovely the Countess proposed they should take their tea in the open air. Pansy therefore was sent to bid the servant bring out the preparations. The sun had got low, the golden light took a deeper tone, and on the mountains and the plain that stretched beneath them the masses of purple shadow glowed as richly as the places that were still exposed. The scene had an extraordinary charm. The air was almost solemnly still, and the large expanse of the landscape, with its gardenlike culture and nobleness of outline, its teeming valley and delicately-fretted hills, its peculiarly human-looking touches of habitation, lay there in splendid harmony and classic grace. ‘You seem so well pleased that I think you can be trusted to come back,’ Osmond said as he led his companion to one of the angles of the terrace.
他们回到第一个房间，那里已经供应了茶。但由于另外两位女士还在露台上，而且伊莎贝尔还没有熟悉这个地方的景色和最重要的特色，奥斯蒙德先生立即引导她走进花园。梅尔夫人和伯爵夫人已经搬出了椅子，由于下午的天气很好，伯爵夫人建议他们应该在露天喝茶。于是派潘西去吩咐仆人把准备的东西拿出来。太阳已经西沉，金色的光芒变得更加深沉，山峦和山下的平原上，大片的紫色阴影和那些裸露的地方一样闪耀着浓郁的光芒。那场面有一种非凡的魅力。空气几乎是庄严的寂静，大片的风景，花园般的文化和高贵的轮廓，拥挤的山谷和精致的山丘，独特的人性化的居住环境，都呈现出辉煌的和谐和古典的优雅。 。 “你看起来很高兴，我认为你可以相信你会回来，”奥斯蒙德一边说，一边带着他的同伴走到露台的一角。

‘I shall certainly come back,’ she returned, ‘in spite of what you say about its being bad to live in Italy. What was that you said about one’s natural mission? I wonder if I should forsake my natural mission if I were to settle in Florence.’
“我一定会回来的，”她回答道，“尽管你说住在意大利很糟糕。你所说的一个人的自然使命是什么？我想知道如果我要在佛罗伦萨定居，我是否应该放弃我的自然使命。

‘A woman’s natural mission is to be where she’s most appreciated.’
“女人的自然使命就是成为最受赞赏的地方。”

‘The point’s to find out where that is.’
“重点是找出那在哪里。”

‘Very true—she often wastes a great deal of time in the enquiry. People ought to make it very plain to her.’
“非常正确——她经常在询问上浪费大量时间。人们应该向她说得很清楚。

‘Such a matter would have to be made very plain to me,’ smiled Isabel.
“这样的事情必须向我说得非常清楚，”伊莎贝尔微笑道。

‘I’m glad, at any rate, to hear you talk of settling. Madame Merle had given me an idea that you were of a rather roving disposition. I thought she spoke of your having some plan of going round the world.’
“无论如何，我很高兴听到你谈论和解。梅尔夫人让我觉得你的性情相当飘忽不定。我以为她说你有环游世界的计划。

‘I’m rather ashamed of my plans; I make a new one every day.’
“我对自己的计划感到相当羞愧；我每天都会做一个新的。

‘I don’t see why you should be ashamed; it’s the greatest of pleasures.’
“我不明白你为什么要感到羞耻；这是最大的快乐。

‘It seems frivolous, I think,’ said Isabel. ‘One ought to choose something very deliberately, and be faithful to that.’
“我认为这似乎很无聊，”伊莎贝尔说。 “一个人应该非常谨慎地选择某件事，并忠实于它。”

‘By that rule then, I’ve not been frivolous.’
“按照这条规则，我并没有轻率。”

‘Have you never made plans?’
“你从来没有制定过计划吗？”

‘Yes, I made one years ago, and I’m acting on it to-day.’
“是的，我一年前就做了，今天我正在付诸实践。”

‘It must have been a very pleasant one,’ Isabel permitted herself to observe.
“这一定是一件非常愉快的事情，”伊莎贝尔允许自己观察到。

‘It was very simple. It was to be as quiet as possible.’
'这很简单。尽可能保持安静。

‘As quiet?’ the girl repeated.
“那么安静？”女孩重复道。

‘Not to worry—not to strive nor struggle. To resign myself. To be content with little.’ He spoke these sentences slowly, with short pauses between, and his intelligent regard was fixed on his visitor’s with the conscious air of a man who has brought himself to confess something.
‘不要担心——不要努力或挣扎。自己辞职。知足常乐。”他慢慢地说着这些句子，中间有短暂的停顿，他聪明的目光盯着来访者的目光，一副有意识地承认了什么的人的神态。

‘Do you call that simple?’ she asked with mild irony.
“你说这简单吗？”她带着温和的讽刺问道。

‘Yes, because it’s negative.’
“是的，因为它是负面的。”

‘Has your life been negative?’
“你的生活是否消极？”

‘Call it affirmative if you like. Only it has affirmed my indifference. Mind you, not my natural indifference—I had none. But my studied, my wilful renunciation.’
“如果你愿意的话，可以称之为肯定。”只是这更证实了我的冷漠。请注意，这不是我天生的冷漠——我没有。但我研究过，我故意放弃。

She scarcely understood him; it seemed a question whether he were joking or not. Why should a man who struck her as having a great fund of reserve suddenly bring himself to be so confidential? This was his affair, however, and his confidences were interesting. ‘I don’t see why you should have renounced,’ she said in a moment.
她几乎不明白他的意思。这似乎是一个问题，他是否在开玩笑。一个在她看来拥有大量储备金的男人为何突然变得如此保密？然而，这是他的事，他的秘密很有趣。 “我不明白你为什么应该放弃，”她立刻说道。

‘Because I could do nothing. I had no prospects, I was poor, and I was not a man of genius. I had no talents even; I took my measure early in life. I was simply the most fastidious young gentleman living. There were two or three people in the world I envied—the Emperor of Russia, for instance, and the Sultan of Turkey! There were even moments when I envied the Pope of Rome—for the consideration he enjoys. I should have been delighted to be considered to that extent; but since that couldn’t be I didn’t care for anything less, and I made up my mind not to go in for honours. The leanest gentleman can always consider himself, and fortunately I was, though lean, a gentleman. I could do nothing in Italy—I couldn’t even be an Italian patriot. To do that I should have had to get out of the country; and I was too fond of it to leave it, to say nothing of my being too well satisfied with it, on the whole, as it then was, to wish it altered. So I’ve passed a great many years here on that quiet plan I spoke of. I’ve not been at all unhappy. I don’t mean to say I’ve cared for nothing; but the things I’ve cared for have been definite—limited. The events of my life have been absolutely unperceived by any one save myself; getting an old silver crucifix at a bargain (I’ve never bought anything dear, of course), or discovering, as I once did, a sketch by Correggio on a panel daubed over by some inspired idiot.’
‘因为我无能为力。我没有前途，我很穷，而且我不是一个天才。我什至没有天赋；我很早就采取了措施。我简直就是世上最挑剔的年轻绅士。世界上有两三个人让我羡慕——比如俄罗斯皇帝，还有土耳其苏丹！甚至有一些时候，我很羡慕罗马教皇——因为他所受到的尊重。我应该很高兴能被考虑到这个程度。但既然那是不可能的，我就不在乎其他什么了，而且我决定不再追求荣誉。最瘦的绅士也总能自认是个绅士，幸运的是，我虽然瘦，却是个绅士。我在意大利无能为力——我什至不能成为一名意大利爱国者。为了做到这一点，我必须离开这个国家。我太喜欢它了，舍不得离开它，更不用说我对它太满意了，总的来说，就像当时一样，希望它能改变。因此，我已经在我所说的那个安静的计划中度过了很多年。我一点也不高兴。我并不是说我什么都不关心；但我所关心的事情是明确的——有限的。除了我自己之外，任何人都完全没有意识到我一生中发生的事情。以便宜的价格买到一个旧的银十字架（当然，我从来没有买过任何昂贵的东西），或者像我以前那样发现了科雷乔在面板上由一些有灵感的白痴涂抹的草图。

This would have been rather a dry account of Mr. Osmond’s’ career if Isabel had fully believed it; but her imagination supplied the human element which she was sure had not been wanting. His life had been mingled with other lives more than he admitted; naturally she couldn’t expect him to enter into this. For the present she abstained from provoking further revelations; to intimate that he had not told her everything would be more familiar and less considerate than she now desired to be—would in fact be uproariously vulgar. He had certainly told her quite enough. It was her present inclination, however, to express a measured sympathy for the success with which he had preserved his independence. ‘That’s a very pleasant life,’ she said, ‘to renounce everything but Correggio!’
如果伊莎贝尔完全相信的话，这对奥斯蒙德先生的职业生涯的描述就相当枯燥了。但她的想象力提供了她所不想要的人性因素。他的生活与其他人的生活的交织程度比他自己承认的要多。她自然不能指望他会参与其中。目前，她没有透露更多的消息。暗示他没有告诉她一切都会比她现在希望的更熟悉、更不体贴——事实上，这是极其粗俗的。他确实已经告诉她足够多的事情了。然而，她目前的倾向是对他保持独立性的成功表示有节制的同情。 “这是一种非常愉快的生活，”她说，“放弃一切，除了科雷乔！”

‘Oh, I’ve made in my way a good thing of it. Don’t imagine I’m whining about it. It’s one’s own fault if one isn’t happy.’
‘哦，我已经用我的方式做了一件好事。别以为我会为此抱怨。如果一个人不快乐，那是他自己的错。”

This was large; she kept down to something smaller. ‘Have you lived here always?’
这是很大的；她坚持做更小的事情。 “你一直住在这里吗？”

‘No, not always. I lived a long time at Naples, and many years in Rome. But I’ve been here a good while. Perhaps I shall have to change, however; to do something else. I’ve no longer myself to think of. My daughter’s growing up and may very possibly not care so much for the Correggios and crucifixes as I. I shall have to do what’s best for Pansy.’
‘不，并不总是如此。我在那不勒斯住了很长时间，在罗马也住了很多年。但我在这里已经有一段时间了。然而，也许我必须改变；去做别的事。我不再想我自己了。我女儿正在长大，可能不像我那么关心科雷吉奥斯和十字架。我必须为潘西做最好的事情。

‘Yes, do that,’ said Isabel. ‘She’s such a dear little girl.’
“是的，就这么做，”伊莎贝尔说。 “她真是个可爱的小女孩。”

‘Ah,’ cried Gilbert Osmond beautifully, ‘she’s a little saint of heaven! She is my great happiness!’
“啊，”吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德优美地叫道，“她是天上的小圣人！”她是我最大的幸福！

Chapter 25
第25章

While this sufficiently intimate colloquy (prolonged for some time after we cease to follow it) went forward Madame Merle and her companion, breaking a silence of some duration, had begun to exchange remarks. They were sitting in an attitude of unexpressed expectancy; an attitude especially marked on the part of the Countess Gemini, who, being of a more nervous temperament than her friend, practised with less success the art of disguising impatience. What these ladies were waiting for would not have been apparent and was perhaps not very definite to their own minds. Madame Merle waited for Osmond to release their young friend from her tete-a-tete, and the Countess waited because Madame Merle did. The Countess, moreover, by waiting, found the time ripe for one of her pretty perversities. She might have desired for some minutes to place it. Her brother wandered with Isabel to the end of the garden, to which point her eyes followed them.
当这场足够亲密的谈话（在我们停止关注之后持续了一段时间）继续进行时，梅尔夫人和她的同伴打破了一段时间的沉默，开始交换意见。他们坐着的态度没有表达出期待。双子座伯爵夫人的态度尤其明显，她的性情比她的朋友更紧张，在掩饰不耐烦的艺术方面不太成功。这些女士们在等待什么并不明显，也许她们自己也不太确定。梅尔夫人等待奥斯蒙德将他们的年轻朋友从她的面对面中释放出来，伯爵夫人也等待着，因为梅尔夫人这样做了。此外，伯爵夫人在等待中发现，时机成熟了，她的一项相当反常的行为已经成熟。她可能需要几分钟的时间来放置它。她的哥哥和伊莎贝尔一起漫步到花园的尽头，她的目光也跟着他们。

‘My dear,’ she then observed to her companion, ‘you’ll excuse me if I don’t congratulate you!’
“亲爱的，”她对她的同伴说，“如果我不祝贺你，请原谅我！”

‘Very willingly, for I don’t in the least know why you should.’
“非常愿意，因为我根本不知道你为什么要这么做。”

‘Haven’t you a little plan that you think rather well of?’ And the Countess nodded at the sequestered couple.
“你们就没有一个自己认为不错的小计划吗？”伯爵夫人向这对与世隔绝的夫妇点了点头。

Madame Merle’s eyes took the same direction; then she looked serenely at her neighbour. ‘You know I never understand you very well,’ she smiled.
梅尔夫人的目光投向同一个方向。然后她平静地看着她的邻居。 “你知道我从来不太了解你，”她微笑着说。

‘No one can understand better than you when you wish. I see that just now you don’t wish.’
‘只要你愿意，没有人能比你更理解你。我现在看到你不希望这样。

‘You say things to me that no one else does,’ said Madame Merle gravely, yet without bitterness.
“你对我说了别人不会说的话。”梅尔夫人严肃地说，但并不带怨恨。

‘You mean things you don’t like? Doesn’t Osmond sometimes say such things?’
‘你的意思是你不喜欢的事情？奥斯蒙德不是有时会说这样的话吗？

‘What your brother says has a point.’
“你哥哥说的有道理。”

‘Yes, a poisoned one sometimes. If you mean that I’m not so clever as he you mustn’t think I shall suffer from your sense of our difference. But it will be much better that you should understand me.’
“是的，有时是有毒的。如果你的意思是我不如他那么聪明，你一定不会认为我会因为你意识到我们的差异而感到痛苦。但你最好能理解我。”

‘Why so?’ asked Madame Merle. ‘To what will it conduce?’
“为什么会这样呢？”梅尔夫人问道。 “这会带来什么好处？”

‘If I don’t approve of your plan you ought to know it in order to appreciate the danger of my interfering with it.’
“如果我不同意你的计划，你应该知道这一点，以便认识到我干涉它的危险。”

Madame Merle looked as if she were ready to admit that there might be something in this; but in a moment she said quietly: ‘You think me more calculating than I am.’
梅尔夫人看上去似乎已经准备好承认这其中可能有什么道理。但过了一会儿，她平静地说：“你认为我比我更精于算计。”

‘It’s not your calculating I think ill of; it’s your calculating wrong. You’ve done so in this case.’
“我看不起你的算计；这是你的计算错误。在这种情况下你已经这样做了。

‘You must have made extensive calculations yourself to discover that.’
“你自己一定经过大量计算才发现这一点。”

‘No, I’ve not had time. I’ve seen the girl but this once,’ said the Countess, ‘and the conviction has suddenly come to me. I like her very much.’
‘不，我没有时间。我见过那个女孩，但这一次，”伯爵夫人说，“我突然有了信念。我非常喜欢她。'

‘So do I,’ Madame Merle mentioned.
“我也是，”梅尔夫人说道。

‘You’ve a strange way of showing it.’
“你的表达方式很奇怪。”

‘Surely I’ve given her the advantage of making your acquaintance.’
“当然，我给了她结识你的机会。”

‘That indeed,’ piped the Countess, ‘is perhaps the best thing that could happen to her!’
“这确实是，”伯爵夫人轻声道，“也许是发生在她身上的最好的事情了！”

Madame Merle said nothing for some time. The Countess’s manner was odious, was really low; but it was an old story, and with her eyes upon the violet slope of Monte Morello she gave herself up to reflection. ‘My dear lady,’ she finally resumed, ‘I advise you not to agitate yourself. The matter you allude to concerns three persons much stronger of purpose than yourself.’
梅尔夫人有一段时间没有说话。伯爵夫人的举止令人厌恶，非常低俗。但这是一个古老的故事了，当她凝视着莫雷罗山紫色的山坡时，她陷入了沉思。 “亲爱的女士，”她终于继续说道，“我建议您不要激动。你提到的事情涉及三个比你更有目的的人。

‘Three persons? You and Osmond of course. But is Miss Archer also very strong of purpose?’
‘三个人？当然是你和奥斯蒙德。但阿切尔小姐的意志力也很强吗？

‘Quite as much so as we.’
“和我们一样。”

‘Ah then,’ said the Countess radiantly, ‘if I convince her it’s her interest to resist you she’ll do so successfully!’
“啊，那么，”伯爵夫人喜气洋洋地说，“如果我说服她，抵抗你符合她的利益，她就会成功的！”

‘Resist us? Why do you express yourself so coarsely? She’s not exposed to compulsion or deception.’
‘抵抗我们？为什么你的表达方式如此粗俗？她没有受到强迫或欺骗。

‘I’m not sure of that. You’re capable of anything, you and Osmond. I don’t mean Osmond by himself, and I don’t mean you by yourself. But together you’re dangerous—like some chemical combination.’
“我对此不太确定。你和奥斯蒙德，什么都能做。我不是指奥斯蒙德本人，也不是指你本人。但你们在一起就很危险——就像某种化学组合一样。”

‘You had better leave us alone then,’ smiled Madame Merle.
“那你最好别打扰我们，”梅尔夫人微笑着说。

‘I don’t mean to touch you—but I shall talk to that girl.’
“我不想碰你——但我会和那个女孩谈谈。”

‘My poor Amy,’ Madame Merle murmured, ‘I don’t see what has got into your head.’
“我可怜的艾米，”梅尔夫人低声说道，“我不明白你脑子里在想什么。”

‘I take an interest in her—that’s what has got into my head. I like her.’
“我对她很感兴趣——这就是我的想法。我喜欢她。'

Madame Merle hesitated a moment. ‘I don’t think she likes you.’
梅尔夫人犹豫了一会儿。 “我认为她不喜欢你。”

The Countess’s bright little eyes expanded and her face was set in a grimace. ‘Ah, you are dangerous—even by yourself!’
伯爵夫人明亮的小眼睛睁得大大的，脸上露出了痛苦的表情。 “啊，你很危险——即使是你一个人！”

‘If you want her to like you don’t abuse your brother to her,’ said Madame Merle.
“如果你想让她喜欢你，就不要向她虐待你的兄弟，”梅尔夫人说。

‘I don’t suppose you pretend she has fallen in love with him in two interviews.’
“我不认为你在两次采访中假装她爱上了他。”

Madame Merle looked a moment at Isabel and at the master of the house. He was leaning against the parapet, facing her, his arms folded; and she at present was evidently not lost in the mere impersonal view, persistently as she gazed at it. As Madame Merle watched her she lowered her eyes; she was listening, possibly with a certain embarrassment, while she pressed the point of her parasol into the path. Madame Merle rose from her chair. ‘Yes, I think so!’ she pronounced.
梅尔夫人看了伊莎贝尔和主人一眼。他靠在栏杆上，面对着她，双臂交叉。她现在显然并没有迷失在纯粹的非个人观点中，她执着地凝视着它。当梅尔夫人看着她时，她垂下了眼睛。她一边听着，一边把阳伞的尖按在路上，心里可能有些尴尬。梅尔夫人从椅子上站起来。 “是的，我想是的！”她说道。

The shabby footboy, summoned by Pansy—he might, tarnished as to livery and quaint as to type, have issued from some stray sketch of old-time manners, been ‘put in’ by the brush of a Longhi or a Goyahad come out with a small table and placed it on the grass, and then had gone back and fetched the tea-tray; after which he had again disappeared, to return with a couple of chairs. Pansy had watched these proceedings with the deepest interest, standing with her small hands folded together upon the front of her scanty frock; but she had not presumed to offer assistance. When the tea-table had been arranged, however, she gently approached her aunt.
那个衣衫褴褛的男仆，被潘西叫来了——他的制服可能已经失去光泽，字体也很古怪，是从一些旧时代礼仪的零星草图中出来的，被隆吉或戈雅哈德的画笔“放进去”了。拿了一张小桌子放在草地上，然后回去拿了茶盘。之后他再次消失，带着几把椅子回来。潘西以最浓厚的兴趣观看了这些过程，她的小手交叉放在她那件短裙的前面。但她并没有冒昧地提供帮助。然而，当茶桌摆好后，她轻轻地走到了姨妈身边。

‘Do you think papa would object to my making the tea?’
“你认为爸爸会反对我泡茶吗？”

The Countess looked at her with a deliberately critical gaze and without answering her question.
伯爵夫人故意用批评的目光看着她，没有回答她的问题。

‘My poor niece,’ she said, ‘is that your best frock?’
“我可怜的侄女，”她说，“这是你最好的连衣裙吗？”

‘Ah no,’ Pansy answered, ‘it’s just a little toilette for common occasions.’
“啊不，”Pansy 回答，“这只是一些平常场合的小盥洗用品。”

‘Do you call it a common occasion when I come to see you?—to say nothing of Madame Merle and the pretty lady yonder.’
“你认为我来看你是很平常的事吗？——更不用说梅尔夫人和那边那位漂亮女士了。”

Pansy reflected a moment, turning gravely from one of the persons mentioned to the other. Then her face broke into its perfect smile. ‘I have a pretty dress, but even that one’s very simple. Why should I expose it beside your beautiful things?’
潘西沉思了一会儿，严肃地从提到的一个人转向另一个人。然后她的脸上露出了完美的微笑。 “我有一件漂亮的衣服，但即使是那件也很简单。我为什么要把它放在你美丽的东西旁边？

‘Because it’s the prettiest you have; for me you must always wear the prettiest. Please put it on the next time. It seems to me they don’t dress you so well as they might.’
‘因为这是你拥有的最漂亮的；对我来说，你必须永远穿最漂亮的。请下次再戴上。在我看来，他们并没有把你打扮得那么好。

The child sparingly stroked down her antiquated skirt. ‘It’s a good little dress to make tea—don’t you think? Don’t you believe papa would allow me?’
孩子小心翼翼地抚摸着她那破旧的裙子。 “这件小裙子很适合泡茶——你不觉得吗？你不相信爸爸会允许我吗？

‘Impossible for me to say, my child,’ said the Countess. ‘For me, your father’s ideas are unfathomable. Madame Merle understands them better. Ask her.’
“我无法说，我的孩子，”伯爵夫人说。 ‘对我来说，你父亲的想法深不可测。梅尔夫人更了解他们。问她。'

Madame Merle smiled with her usual grace. ‘It’s a weighty question—let me think. It seems to me it would please your father to see a careful little daughter making his tea. It’s the proper duty of the daughter of the house—when she grows up.’
梅尔夫人带着她一贯的优雅微笑。 “这是一个很重要的问题——让我想一想。在我看来，你父亲看到一个细心的小女儿泡茶会很高兴。这是这个家的女儿长大后应尽的义务。”

‘So it seems to me, Madame Merle!’ Pansy cried. ‘You shall see how well I’ll make it. A spoonful for each.’ And she began to busy herself at the table.
“我觉得是这样，梅尔夫人！”潘西喊道。 ‘你会看到我会做得有多好。每人一勺。”然后她开始在餐桌上忙碌起来。

‘Two spoonfuls for me,’ said the Countess, who, with Madame Merle, remained for some moments watching her. ‘Listen to me, Pansy,’ the Countess resumed at last. ‘I should like to know what you think of your visitor.’
“给我两勺，”伯爵夫人说，她和梅尔夫人一起看了一会儿。 “听我说，潘西，”伯爵夫人最后继续说道。 “我想知道你对你的访客有何看法。”

‘Ah, she’s not mine—she’s papa’s,’ Pansy objected.
“啊，她不是我的——她是爸爸的，”潘西反对道。

‘Miss Archer came to see you as well,’ said Madame Merle.
“阿切尔小姐也来看你了，”梅尔夫人说。

‘I’m very happy to hear that. She has been very polite to me.’
“我很高兴听到这个消息。她对我很有礼貌。

‘Do you like her then?’ the Countess asked.
“那你喜欢她吗？”伯爵夫人问道。

‘She’s charming—charming,’ Pansy repeated in her little neat conversational tone. ‘She pleases me thoroughly.’
“她很迷人——迷人，”潘西用她那简洁的对话语气重复道。 “她让我非常高兴。”

‘And how do you think she pleases your father?’
“你认为她如何取悦你父亲？”

‘Ah really, Countess!’ murmured Madame Merle dissuasively. ‘Go and call them to tea,’ she went on to the child.
“啊，真是的，伯爵夫人！”梅尔夫人劝阻地低声说道。 “去叫他们去喝茶吧，”她继续对孩子说道。

‘You’ll see if they don’t like it!’ Pansy declared; and departed to summon the others, who had still lingered at the end of the terrace.
“你会看到他们是否不喜欢它！”Pansy 宣称。然后离开去召唤其他人，他们还徘徊在露台的尽头。

‘If Miss Archer’s to become her mother it’s surely interesting to know if the child likes her,’ said the Countess.
“如果阿切尔小姐要成为她的母亲，那么知道孩子是否喜欢她肯定很有趣，”伯爵夫人说。

‘If your brother marries again it won’t be for Pansy’s sake,’ Madame Merle replied. ‘She’ll soon be sixteen, and after that she’ll begin to need a husband rather than a stepmother.’
“如果你哥哥再婚，那也不是为了潘西，”梅尔夫人回答道。 “她很快就满十六岁了，之后她将开始需要一个丈夫，而不是继母。”

‘And will you provide the husband as well?’
“那你也愿意提供丈夫吗？”

‘I shall certainly take an interest in her marrying fortunately. I imagine you’ll do the same.’
“幸运的是，我当然会对她结婚感兴趣。我想你也会这样做。

‘Indeed I shan’t!’ cried the Countess. ‘Why should I, of all women, set such a price on a husband?’
“我真的不会！”伯爵夫人喊道。 “在所有女人中，我为什么要为丈夫设定这样的价格？”

‘You didn’t marry fortunately; that’s what I’m speaking of. When I say a husband I mean a good one.’
‘你结婚并不幸运；这就是我所说的。当我说丈夫时，我指的是一个好丈夫。

‘There are no good ones. Osmond won’t be a good one.’
‘没有好人。奥斯蒙德不会是一个好人。

Madame Merle closed her eyes a moment. ‘You’re irritated just now; I don’t know why,’ she presently said. ‘I don’t think you’ll really object either to your brother’s or to your niece’s marrying when the time comes for them to do so; and as regards Pansy I’m confident that we shall some day have the pleasure of looking for a husband for her together. Your large acquaintance will be a great help.’
梅尔夫人闭上了眼睛一会儿。 ‘你刚才很生气；我不知道为什么，”她立即说道。 “我认为，当你的兄弟或侄女结婚的时候，你不会真正反对他们结婚；至于潘西，我相信有一天我们会有幸一起为她寻找丈夫。你的熟人会给你很大的帮助。

‘Yes, I’m irritated,’ the Countess answered. ‘You often irritate me. Your own coolness is fabulous. You’re a strange woman.’
“是的，我很生气，”伯爵夫人回答道。 ‘你经常惹恼我。你自己的冷静真是太棒了。你是个奇怪的女人。

‘It’s much better that we should always act together,’ Madame Merle went on.
“我们应该始终一起行动，这要好得多，”梅尔夫人继续说道。

‘Do you mean that as a threat?’ asked the Countess rising.
“你的意思是威胁吗？”伯爵夫人站起来问道。

Madame Merle shook her head as for quiet amusement. ‘No indeed, you’ve not my coolness!’
梅尔夫人摇摇头，一副安静的心情。 “不，确实，你没有我的冷静！”

Isabel and Mr. Osmond were now slowly coming toward them and Isabel had taken Pansy by the hand. ‘Do you pretend to believe he’d make her happy?’ the Countess demanded.
伊莎贝尔和奥斯蒙德先生正在慢慢地向他们走来，伊莎贝尔握住了潘西的手。 “你假装相信他会让她幸福吗？”伯爵夫人问道。

‘If he should marry Miss Archer I suppose he’d behave like a gentleman.
“如果他娶了阿切尔小姐，我想他会表现得像个绅士。

The Countess jerked herself into a succession of attitudes. ‘Do you mean as most gentlemen behave? That would be much to be thankful for! Of course Osmond’s a gentleman; his own sister needn’t be reminded of that. But does he think he can marry any girl he happens to pick out? Osmond’s a gentleman, of course; but I must say I’ve never, no, no, never, seen any one of Osmond’s pretensions! What they’re all founded on is more than I can say. I’m his own sister; I might be supposed to know. Who is he, if you please? What has he ever done? If there had been anything particularly grand in his origin—if he were made of some superior clay—I presume I should have got some inkling of it. If there had been any great honours or splendours in the family I should certainly have made the most of them: they would have been quite in my line. But there’s nothing, nothing, nothing. One’s parents were charming people of course; but so were yours, I’ve no doubt. Every one’s a charming person now-a-days. Even I’m a charming person; don’t laugh, it has literally been said. As for Osmond, he has always appeared to believe that he’s descended from the gods.’
伯爵夫人的态度猛然一变。 “你的意思是大多数绅士的行为方式吗？那将是非常值得感激的！当然，奥斯蒙德是一位绅士。他自己的妹妹不需要被提醒这一点。但他认为他可以娶任何他碰巧挑选的女孩吗？当然，奥斯蒙德是一位绅士。但我必须说我从来没有，不，不，从来没有见过奥斯蒙德的任何一种自命不凡！它们的基础比我能说的还要多。我是他的亲妹妹；我可能应该知道。请问他是谁？他曾经做过什么？如果他的起源有什么特别伟大的东西——如果他是用某种上等的粘土制成的——我想我应该对此有所了解。如果家里有任何伟大的荣誉或辉煌，我当然应该充分利用它们：它们本来就很符合我的血统。但什么都没有，什么都没有，什么都没有。一个人的父母当然是有魅力的人；但我毫不怀疑，你的也是如此。现在每个人都是有魅力的人。即使我是一个有魅力的人；别笑，字面上已经这么说了。至于奥斯蒙德，他似乎一直相信自己是众神的后裔。

‘You may say what you please,’ said Madame Merle, who had listened to this quick outbreak none the less attentively, we may believe, because her eye wandered away from the speaker and her hands busied themselves with adjusting the knots of ribbon on her dress. ‘You Osmonds are a fine race—your blood must flow from some very pure source. Your brother, like an intelligent man, has had the conviction of it if he has not had the proofs. You’re modest about it, but you yourself are extremely distinguished. What do you say about your niece? The child’s a little princess. Nevertheless,’ Madame Merle added, ‘it won’t be an easy matter for Osmond to marry Miss Archer. Yet he can try.’
“你想说什么就说什么，”梅尔夫人说，我们可以相信，她仍然很专心地听着这场迅速爆发的事件，因为她的目光从说话者身上移开，双手忙着调整她身上的丝带结。裙子。 “你们奥斯蒙德是一个优秀的种族——你们的血液一定来自某个非常纯净的源头。你的兄弟就像一个聪明人，即使没有证据，他也已经相信了这一点。你对此很谦虚，但你自己却非常杰出。你对你的侄女有什么看法？孩子是个小公主。尽管如此，”梅尔夫人补充道，“对奥斯蒙德来说，娶阿切尔小姐并不是一件容易的事。但他可以尝试。

‘I hope she’ll refuse him. It will take him down a little.’
“我希望她会拒绝他。这会让他有点沮丧。

‘We mustn’t forget that he is one of the cleverest of men.’
“我们不能忘记他是最聪明的人之一。”

‘I’ve heard you say that before, but I haven’t yet discovered what he has done.’
“我以前听你说过，但我还没发现他做了什么。”

‘What he has done? He has done nothing that has had to be undone. And he has known how to wait.’
‘他做了什么？他没有做过任何必须撤销的事情。他知道如何等待。

‘To wait for Miss Archer’s money? How much of it is there?’
‘等阿切尔小姐的钱？那里有多少？

‘That’s not what I mean,’ said Madame Merle. ‘Miss Archer has seventy thousand pounds.’
“我不是这个意思，”梅尔夫人说。 “阿切尔小姐有七万英镑。”

‘Well, it’s a pity she’s so charming,’ the Countess declared. ‘To be sacrificed, any girl would do. She needn’t be superior.’
“嗯，可惜她是如此迷人，”伯爵夫人宣称。 ‘要被牺牲，任何女孩都会做。她不必出众。

‘If she weren’t superior your brother would never look at her. He must have the best.’
“如果她不优秀，你哥哥永远不会看她。他一定拥有最好的。

‘Yes,’ returned the Countess as they went forward a little to meet the others, ‘he’s very hard to satisfy. That makes me tremble for her happiness!’
“是的，”当他们向前走一点去迎接其他人时，伯爵夫人回答道，“他很难满足。”这让我为她的幸福而颤抖！

Chapter 26
第26章

Gilbert Osmond came to see Isabel again; that is he came to Palazzo Crescentini. He had other friends there as well, and to Mrs. Touchett and Madame Merle he was always impartially civil; but the former of these ladies noted the fact that in the course of a fortnight he called five times, and compared it with another fact that she found no difficulty in remembering. Two visits a year had hitherto constituted his regular tribute to Mrs. Touchett’s worth, and she had never observed him select for such visits those moments, of almost periodical recurrence, when Madame Merle was under her roof. It was not for Madame Merle that he came; these two were old friends and he never put himself out for her. He was not fond of Ralph—Ralph had told her so—and it was not supposable that Mr. Osmond had suddenly taken a fancy to her son. Ralph was imperturbable—Ralph had a kind of loose-fitting urbanity that wrapped him about like an ill-made overcoat, but of which he never divested himself; he thought Mr. Osmond very good company and was willing at any time to look at him in the light of hospitality. But he didn’t flatter himself that the desire to repair a past injustice was the motive of their visitor’s calls; he read the situation more clearly. Isabel was the attraction, and in all conscience a sufficient one. Osmond was a critic, a student of the exquisite, and it was natural he should be curious of so rare an apparition. So when his mother observed to him that it was plain what Mr. Osmond was thinking of, Ralph replied that he was quite of her opinion. Mrs. Touchett had from far back found a place on her scant list for this gentleman, though wondering dimly by what art and what process—so negative and so wise as they were—he had everywhere effectively imposed himself. As he had never been an importunate visitor he had had no chance to be offensive, and he was recommended to her by his appearance of being as well able to do without her as she was to do without him—a quality that always, oddly enough, affected her as providing ground for a relation with her. It gave her no satisfaction, however, to think that he had taken it into his head to marry her niece. Such an alliance, on Isabel’s part, would have an air of almost morbid perversity. Mrs. Touchett easily remembered that the girl had refused an English peer; and that a young lady with whom Lord Warburton had not successfully wrestled should content herself with an obscure American dilettante, a middle-aged widower with an uncanny child and an ambiguous income, this answered to nothing in Mrs. Touchett’s conception of success. She took, it will be observed, not the sentimental, but the political, view of matrimony—a view which has always had much to recommend it. ‘I trust she won’t have the folly to listen to him,’ she said to her son; to which Ralph replied that Isabel’s listening was one thing and Isabel’s answering quite another. He knew she had listened to several parties, as his father would have said, but had made them listen in return; and he found much entertainment in the idea that in these few months of his knowing her he should observe a fresh suitor at her gate. She had wanted to see life, and fortune was serving her to her taste; a succession of fine gentlemen going down on their knees to her would do as well as anything else. Ralph looked forward to a fourth, a fifth, a tenth besieger; he had no conviction she would stop at a third. She would keep the gate ajar and open a parley; she would certainly not allow number three to come in. He expressed this view, somewhat after this fashion, to his mother, who looked at him as if he had been dancing a jig. He had such a fanciful, pictorial way of saying things that he might as well address her in the deaf-mute’s alphabet.
吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德再次来看望伊莎贝尔。那就是他来到了克雷森蒂尼宫。他在那里还有其他朋友，对图切特夫人和梅尔夫人，他总是一视同仁、彬彬有礼。但是前一位女士注意到他在两周内打了五次电话，并将其与她不难记住的另一个事实进行了比较。迄今为止，他每年两次来访已成为对图切特夫人价值的定期赞扬，而她从未发现他选择这样的访问，几乎是周期性的，当梅尔夫人在她的屋檐下时。他不是为了梅尔夫人而来，而是为了梅尔夫人。这两个人是老朋友了，他从来没有为她付出过。他不喜欢拉尔夫——拉尔夫已经告诉她了——奥斯蒙德先生不可能突然喜欢上她的儿子。拉尔夫镇定自若——拉尔夫有一种宽松的彬彬有礼，像一件做工粗糙的大衣一样包裹着他，但他却从未脱下自己；他认为奥斯蒙德先生是一个很好的伙伴，并且愿意随时以热情好客的眼光看待他。但他并没有自以为来访者的目的是为了修复过去的不公正现象。他更清楚地了解了情况。伊莎贝尔很有吸引力，而且凭良心来说，这已经足够了。奥斯蒙德是一位批评家，一位精致的学生，他对如此罕见的幽灵感到好奇是很自然的。因此，当他母亲向他指出奥斯蒙德先生的想法很明显时，拉尔夫回答说他完全同意她的意见。塔切特夫人很久以前就在她为数不多的名单上为这位绅士找到了一席之地，尽管她隐隐约约地想知道他通过什么艺术和什么过程——如此消极而如此明智——在各处有效地将自己强加于人。 因为他从来都不是一个纠缠不休的访客，所以他没有机会冒犯，而且他被推荐给她是因为他的外表没有她也能过得很好，就像她没有他一样——这种品质总是很奇怪。 ，影响她，为与她的关系提供基础。然而，想到他已经下定决心要娶她的侄女，她并没有感到满意。对于伊莎贝尔来说，这样的联盟会显得近乎病态的反常。塔切特夫人很容易就想起那个女孩拒绝了一位英国同伴。沃伯顿勋爵没有成功与之摔跤的一位年轻女士应该满足于一位不起眼的美国业余爱好者，一位有着不可思议的孩子和模糊收入的中年鳏夫，这在图切特夫人的成功观念中毫无意义。值得注意的是，她对婚姻的看法不是感性的，而是政治的——这种观点一直有很多值得推荐的地方。 “我相信她不会愚蠢地听他的话，”她对儿子说。拉尔夫回答说，伊莎贝尔的倾听是一回事，伊莎贝尔的回答又是另一回事。他知道她听了好几个聚会，就像他父亲会说的那样，但她也让他们也听了；在认识她的这几个月里，他在她的门口看到了一个新的追求者，这一想法让他感到很有趣。她想要看看生活，而命运正在满足她的口味。一系列优秀的绅士向她跪下就和其他事情一样有效。拉尔夫期待着第四个、第五个、第十个围攻者。他不相信她会停在第三个。她会保持大门半开并开始谈判。她当然不会允许三号进来。 他以某种方式向母亲表达了这一观点，母亲看着他，就像他在跳吉格舞一样。他说话的方式如此奇特、形象，甚至可以用聋哑人的字母来称呼她。

‘I don’t think I know what you mean,’ she said; ‘you use too many figures of speech; I could never understand allegories. The two words in the language I most respect are Yes and No. If Isabel wants to marry Mr. Osmond she’ll do so in spite of all your comparisons. Let her alone to find a fine one herself for anything she undertakes. I know very little about the young man in America; I don’t think she spends much of her time in thinking of him, and I suspect he has got tired of waiting for her. There’s nothing in life to prevent her marrying Mr. Osmond if she only looks at him in a certain way. That’s all very well; no one approves more than I of one’s pleasing one’s self. But she takes her pleasure in such odd things; she’s capable of marrying Mr. Osmond for the beauty of his opinions or for his autograph of Michael Angelo. She wants to be disinterested: as if she were the only person who’s in danger of not being so! Will he be so disinterested when he has the spending of her money? That was her idea before your father’s death, and it has acquired new charms for her since. She ought to marry some one of whose disinterestedness she shall herself be sure; and there would be no such proof of that as his having a fortune of his own.’
“我想我不明白你的意思，”她说。 ‘你用了太多修辞手法；我永远无法理解寓言。我最尊敬的语言中的两个词是“是”和“否”。如果伊莎贝尔想嫁给奥斯蒙德先生，不管你们有多少比较，她都会这么做。让她自己去寻找一个适合她所做的事情的好人。我对这个美国年轻人知之甚少；我认为她没有花太多时间想他，而且我怀疑他已经厌倦了等待她。如果她只以某种方式看待奥斯蒙德先生，生活中就没有什么可以阻止她嫁给他。一切都很好；没有人比我更赞成一个人取悦自己。但她却对这些奇怪的事情感到高兴；她有能力嫁给奥斯蒙德先生，因为他的观点优美，或者他有米开朗基罗的亲笔签名。她想要无私：就好像她是唯一一个面临不这样做的危险的人！花了她的钱，他还会这么无私吗？这是她在你父亲去世前的想法，从那以后，这个想法对她来说有了新的魅力。她应该嫁给一个她本人确信其无私的人。没有任何证据可以证明他拥有自己的财富。

‘My dear mother, I’m not afraid,’ Ralph answered. ‘She’s making fools of us all. She’ll please herself, of course; but she’ll do so by studying human nature at close quarters and yet retaining her liberty. She has started on an exploring expedition, and I don’t think she’ll change her course, at the outset, at a signal from Gilbert Osmond. She may have slackened speed for an hour, but before we know it she’ll be steaming away again. Excuse another metaphor.’
“我亲爱的妈妈，我不害怕，”拉尔夫回答道。 ‘她在愚弄我们所有人。当然，她会取悦自己。但她将通过近距离研究人性并保留自由来实现这一目标。她已经开始了一次探索探险，我认为她不会一开始就根据吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德的信号改变路线。她可能已经放慢了一个小时的速度，但在我们意识到之前，她会再次开始航行。请原谅另一个比喻。

Mrs. Touchett excused it perhaps, but was not so much reassured as to withhold from Madame Merle the expression of her fears. ‘You who know everything,’ she said, ‘you must know this: whether that curious creature’s really making love to my niece.’
塔切特夫人也许对此表示了歉意，但她并没有放心，以至于没有向梅尔夫人表达她的恐惧。 “你什么都知道，”她说，“你一定知道这一点：那个好奇的生物是否真的在和我的侄女做爱。”

‘Gilbert Osmond?’ Madame Merle widened her clear eyes and, with a full intelligence, ‘Heaven help us,’ she exclaimed, ‘that’s an idea!’
“吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德？”梅尔夫人睁大了她清澈的眼睛，充满智慧，“上帝保佑我们，”她惊呼道，“这真是个好主意！”

‘Hadn’t it occurred to you?’
“你没想到吗？”

‘You make me feel an idiot, but I confess it hadn’t. I wonder,’ she added, ‘if it has occurred to Isabel.’
“你让我觉得自己是个白痴，但我承认事实并非如此。我想知道，”她补充道，“伊莎贝尔是否也有过这样的想法。”

‘Oh, I shall now ask her,’ said Mrs. Touchett.
“哦，我现在要问她，”图切特太太说。

Madame Merle reflected. ‘Don’t put it into her head. The thing would be to ask Mr. Osmond.’
梅尔夫人沉思道。 ‘别把它放进她的脑子里。问题是要问奥斯蒙德先生。

‘I can’t do that,’ said Mrs. Touchett. ‘I won’t have him enquire of me—as he perfectly may with that air of his, given Isabel’s situation—what business it is of mine.’
“我不能那样做，”图切特夫人说。 “我不会让他询问我——考虑到伊莎贝尔的处境，他完全可以用他的神气来询问——这关我什么事。”

‘I’ll ask him myself,’ Madame Merle bravely declared.
“我会亲自去问他，”梅尔夫人勇敢地宣称。

‘But what business—for him—is it of yours?’
“但是对他来说，这与你有什么关系呢？”

‘It’s being none whatever is just why I can afford to speak. It’s so much less my business than any one’s else that he can put me off with anything he chooses. But it will be by the way he does this that I shall know.’
“正是因为什么都不是，所以我才有资格说话。这与我的事比其他人的事少得多，所以他可以用他选择的任何东西来推迟我。但我要通过他做这件事的方式才能知道。

‘Pray let me hear then,’ said Mrs. Touchett, ‘of the fruits of your penetration. If I can’t speak to him, however, at least I can speak to Isabel.’
“那么请让我听听，”图切特夫人说，“您的洞察力所取得的成果。”不过，如果我不能和他说话，至少我可以和伊莎贝尔说话。

Her companion sounded at this the note of warning. ‘Don’t be too quick with her. Don’t inflame her imagination.’
她的同伴闻言发出了警告的声音。 ‘别对她太快。不要激发她的想象力。

‘I never did anything in my life to any one’s imagination. But I’m always sure of her doing something—well, not of my kind.’
“我一生中从未做过任何超出任何人想象的事情。但我总是确信她会做一些事情——嗯，不是我的同类。”

‘No, you wouldn’t like this,’ Madame Merle observed without the point of interrogation.
“不，你不会喜欢这样的，”梅尔夫人毫无疑问地说道。

‘Why in the world should I, pray? Mr. Osmond has nothing the least solid to offer.’
‘我到底为什么要祈祷？奥斯蒙德先生没有提供任何最不可靠的东西。

Again Madame Merle was silent while her thoughtful smile drew up her mouth even more charmingly than usual toward the left corner. ‘Let us distinguish. Gilbert Osmond’s certainly not the first comer. He’s a man who in favourable conditions might very well make a great impression. He has made a great impression, to my knowledge, more than once.’
梅尔夫人再次沉默，她深思熟虑的微笑将嘴角比平时更加​​迷人地翘向左角。 ‘让我们区分一下。吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德当然不是第一个来的人。他是一个在有利的条件下很可能给人留下深刻印象的人。据我所知，他不止一次给人留下了深刻的印象。

‘Don’t tell me about his probably quite cold-blooded love-affairs; they’re nothing to me!’ Mrs. Touchett cried. ‘What you say’s precisely why I wish he would cease his visits. He has nothing in the world that I know of but a dozen or two of early masters and a more or less pert little daughter.’
“别告诉我他可能相当冷血的风流韵事； “它们对我来说什么都不是！”图切特夫人喊道。 ‘你所说的正是我希望他停止来访的原因。据我所知，他在这个世界上除了一打或两个早期大师和一个或多或少活泼的小女儿之外一无所有。

‘The early masters are now worth a good deal of money,’ said Madame Merle, ‘and the daughter’s a very young and very innocent and very harmless person.’
“早期的大师现在值很多钱，”梅尔夫人说，“女儿是一个非常年轻、非常天真、非常无害的人。”

‘In other words she’s an insipid little chit. Is that what you mean? Having no fortune she can’t hope to marry as they marry here; so that Isabel will have to furnish her either with a maintenance or with a dowry.’
‘换句话来说，她是个无趣的小女人。你是这个意思吗？由于没有财产，她不可能像他们在这里结婚一样结婚；这样伊莎贝尔就必须为她提供赡养费或嫁妆。

‘Isabel probably wouldn’t object to being kind to her. I think she likes the poor child.’
“伊莎贝尔可能不会反对对她友善。我认为她喜欢这个可怜的孩子。

‘Another reason then for Mr. Osmond’s stopping at home! Otherwise, a week hence, we shall have my niece arriving at the conviction that her mission in life’s to prove that a stepmother may sacrifice herselfand that, to prove it, she must first become one.’
“那么奥斯蒙德先生留在家里的另一个原因！”否则，一周后，我的侄女就会坚信，她的人生使命就是证明继母可以牺牲自己，而为了证明这一点，她必须首先成为继母。

‘She would make a charming stepmother,’ smiled Madame Merle; ‘but I quite agree with you that she had better not decide upon her mission too hastily. Changing the form of one’s mission’s almost as difficult as changing the shape of one’s nose: there they are, each, in the middle of one’s face and one’s character—one has to begin too far back. But I’ll investigate and report to you.’
“她会成为一位迷人的继母，”梅尔夫人微笑道。 “但我非常同意你的观点，她最好不要太仓促地决定她的任务。改变一个人的使命形式几乎和改变一个人鼻子的形状一样困难：它们都在一个人的脸和一个人的性格的中间——一个人必须从太远的地方开始。但我会调查并向你报告。

All this went on quite over Isabel’s head; she had no suspicions that her relations with Mr. Osmond were being discussed. Madame Merle had said nothing to put her on her guard; she alluded no more pointedly to him than to the other gentlemen of Florence, native and foreign, who now arrived in considerable numbers to pay their respects to Miss Archer’s aunt. Isabel thought him interesting—she came back to that; she liked so to think of him. She had carried away an image from her visit to his hill-top which her subsequent knowledge of him did nothing to efface and which put on for her a particular harmony with other supposed and divined things, histories within histories: the image of a quiet, clever, sensitive, distinguished man, strolling on a moss-grown terrace above the sweet Val d’Arno and holding by the hand a little girl whose bell-like clearness gave a new grace to childhood. The picture had no flourishes, but she liked its lowness of tone and the atmosphere of summer twilight that pervaded it. It spoke of the kind of personal issue that touched her most nearly; of the choice between objects, subjects, contacts—what might she call them?—of a thin and those of a rich association; of a lonely, studious life in a lovely land; of an old sorrow that sometimes ached to-day; of a feeling of pride that was perhaps exaggerated, but that had an element of nobleness; of a care for beauty and perfection so natural and so cultivated together that the career appeared to stretch beneath it in the disposed vistas and with the ranges of steps and terraces and fountains of a formal Italian garden—allowing only for arid places freshened by the natural dews of a quaint half-anxious, half-helpless fatherhood. At Palazzo Crescentini Mr. Osmond’s manner remained the same; diffident at firstoh self-conscious beyond doubt! and full of the effort (visible only to a sympathetic eye) to overcome this disadvantage; an effort which usually resulted in a great deal of easy, lively, very positive, rather aggressive, always suggestive talk. Mr. Osmond’s talk was not injured by the indication of an eagerness to shine; Isabel found no difficulty in believing that a person was sincere who had so many of the signs of strong conviction—as for instance an explicit and graceful appreciation of anything that might be said on his own side of the question, said perhaps by Miss Archer in especial. What continued to please this young woman was that while he talked so for amusement he didn’t talk, as she had heard people, for ‘effect.’ He uttered his ideas as if, odd as they often appeared, he were used to them and had lived with them; old polished knobs and heads and handles, of precious substance, that could be fitted if necessary to new walking-sticks—not switches plucked in destitution from the common tree and then too elegantly waved about. One day he brought his small daughter with him, and she rejoiced to renew acquaintance with the child, who, as she presented her forehead to be kissed by every member of the circle, reminded her vividly of an ingenue in a French play. Isabel had never seen a little person of this pattern; American girls were very different—different too were the maidens of England. Pansy was so formed and finished for her tiny place in the world, and yet in imagination, as one could see, so innocent and infantine. She sat on the sofa by Isabel; she wore a small grenadine mantle and a pair of the useful gloves that Madame Merle had given her—little grey gloves with a single button. She was like a sheet of blank paper—the ideal jeune fille of foreign fiction. Isabel hoped that so fair and smooth a page would be covered with an edifying text.
这一切都超出了伊莎贝尔的想象。她并不怀疑有人在讨论她与奥斯蒙德先生的关系。梅尔夫人没有说什么让她保持警惕。她并没有更尖锐地提到他，就像提到佛罗伦萨的其他绅士一样，无论是本国的还是外国的，现在有相当多的人来到这里向阿切尔小姐的姨妈表示敬意。伊莎贝尔觉得他很有趣——她又回到了这一点。她喜欢这样想他。她在拜访他的山顶时留下了一个印象，而她后来对他的了解并没有抹去这个印象，而且这给她带来了与其他假设和神圣的事物、历史中的历史的特殊和谐：一个安静的形象，聪明、敏感、杰出的男人，漫步在甜蜜的阿诺河谷上方长满青苔的露台上，牵着一个小女孩的手，她的铃铛般的清澈给童年带来了新的优雅。这幅画没有华丽的装饰，但她喜欢它低沉的色调和弥漫在其中的夏日黄昏的气氛。它谈到了最触动她的个人问题；对象、主题、联系人（她会怎么称呼它们？）之间的选择，以及薄弱联系和丰富联系的选择；在这片美丽的土地上过着孤独而勤奋的生活；一种古老的悲伤，今天有时会感到疼痛；一种也许有些夸张的自豪感，但其中有一种高贵的成分；对美丽和完美的关心如此自然，如此精心培养，以至于职业生涯似乎在其下方延伸，在正式的意大利花园的台阶、露台和喷泉的范围内，只允许干旱的地方被自然清新。一种古怪的、一半焦虑、一半无助的父亲身份的露水。在克雷森蒂尼宫先生。 奥斯蒙德的态度依然如故。一开始很胆怯哦，毫无疑问是有自我意识的！并充满努力（只有同情的眼睛才能看到）来克服这个缺点；这种努力通常会带来大量轻松、活泼、非常积极、相当激进、总是具有暗示性的谈话。奥斯蒙德先生的讲话并没有因为渴望出人头地而受到损害；伊莎贝尔毫不费力地相信一个人是真诚的，他有如此多的坚定信念的迹象——例如，对自己在问题方面可能说的任何话都表现出明确而优雅的欣赏，也许阿切尔小姐在特别的。让这位年轻女子继续高兴的是，虽然他这样说话是为了娱乐，但他并不是像她听过的那样，为了“效果”而说话。他说出自己的想法，尽管这些想法经常出现，但似乎很奇怪，他已经习惯了它们。并和他们住在一起；旧的抛光旋钮、头部和手柄都是珍贵的材料，如果需要的话可以安装在新的手杖上——而不是从普通树上摘下来然后优雅地挥舞的开关。有一天，他带着他的小女儿，她很高兴能重新认识这个孩子，当她伸出额头让圈子里的每个成员亲吻时，她生动地让她想起一部法国戏剧中的天真少女。伊莎贝尔从来没有见过这样的小个子。美国女孩非常不同——英国的少女也不同。潘西在这个世界上的小小地位是如此成形和完成，但在想象中，正如人们所见，她是那么天真和幼稚。她坐在伊莎贝尔身边的沙发上。她穿着一件红石榴石小斗篷，戴着梅尔夫人送给她的一双有用的手套——只有一颗纽扣的灰色小手套。 她就像一张白纸——外国小说中理想的少女。伊莎贝尔希望如此公平、流畅的一页上能写满有启发性的文字。

The Countess Gemini also came to call upon her, but the Countess was quite another affair. She was by no means a blank sheet; she had been written over in a variety of hands, and Mrs. Touchett, who felt by no means honoured by her visit, pronounced that a number of unmistakeable blots were to be seen upon her surface. The Countess gave rise indeed to some discussion between the mistress of the house and the visitor from Rome, in which Madame Merle (who was not such a fool as to irritate people by always agreeing with them) availed herself felicitously enough of that large licence of dissent which her hostess permitted as freely as she practised it. Mrs. Touchett had declared it a piece of audacity that this highly compromised character should have presented herself at such a time of day at the door of a house in which she was esteemed so little as she must long have known herself to be at Palazzo Crescentini. Isabel had been made acquainted with the estimate prevailing under that roof: it represented Mr. Osmond’s sister as a lady who had so mismanaged her improprieties that they had ceased to hang together at all—which was at the least what one asked of such matters—and had become the mere floating fragments of a wrecked renown, incommoding social circulation. She had been married by her mother—a more administrative person, with an appreciation of foreign titles which the daughter, to do her justice, had probably by this time thrown offto Italian nobleman who had perhaps given her some excuse for attempting to quench the consciousness of outrage. The Countess, however, had consoled herself outrageously, and the list of her excuses had now lost itself in the labyrinth of her adventures. Mrs. Touchett had never consented to receive her, though the Countess had made overtures of old. Florence was not an austere city; but, as Mrs. Touchett said, she had to draw the line somewhere.
双子伯爵夫人也来拜访过她，但伯爵夫人却是另一回事了。她绝不是一张白纸，而是一张白纸。她曾被不同的人写过，图切特夫人对她的来访一点也不感到荣幸，她宣称在她的表面上可以看到许多明显的污迹。伯爵夫人确实引起了女主人和罗马来访者之间的一些讨论，其中梅尔夫人（她并不傻到总是同意人们的观点而激怒人们）充分利用了自己的这一大许可女主人允许她自由地表达不同意见。塔切特夫人宣称，这个高度妥协的人物竟然在一天中的这个时候出现在一座房子门口，她在这所房子里不受尊重，因为她一定很早就知道自己在克雷森蒂尼宫，这是一种大胆的行为。 。伊莎贝尔已经熟悉了那个屋檐下流行的估计：它代表奥斯蒙德先生的妹妹是一位女士，她对自己的不当行为处理不当，以至于他们根本不再在一起——这至少是人们对此类问题的要求——并已成为声誉受损、社会流通不便的漂浮碎片。她的母亲嫁给了她——一个更行政的人，对外国头衔很欣赏，公平地说，女儿此时可能已经把这些头衔送给了意大利贵族，这位贵族也许给了她一些试图平息意识的借口。的愤怒。然而伯爵夫人却粗暴地自我安慰，她的借口清单现在已经在她冒险的迷宫中迷失了。太太。 尽管伯爵夫人早已向她示好，但图切特从未同意接待她。佛罗伦萨并不是一座简朴的城市。但是，正如图切特夫人所说，她必须在某个地方划清界限。

Madame Merle defended the luckless lady with a great deal of zeal and wit. She couldn’t see why Mrs. Touchett should make a scapegoat of a woman who had really done no harm, who had only done good in the wrong way. One must certainly draw the line, but while one was about it one should draw it straight: it was a very crooked chalk-mark that would exclude the Countess Gemini. In that case Mrs. Touchett had better shut up her house; this perhaps would be the best course so long as she remained in Florence. One must be fair and not make arbitrary differences: the Countess had doubtless been imprudent, she had not been so clever as other women. She was a good creature, not clever at all; but since when had that been a ground of exclusion from the best society? For ever so long now one had heard nothing about her, and there could be no better proof of her having renounced the error of her ways than her desire to become a member of Mrs. Touchett’s circle. Isabel could contribute nothing to this interesting dispute, not even a patient attention; she contented herself with having given a friendly welcome to the unfortunate lady, who, whatever her defects, had at least the merit of being Mr. Osmond’s sister. As she liked the brother Isabel thought it proper to try and like the sister: in spite of the growing complexity of things she was still capable of these primitive sequences. She had not received the happiest impression of the Countess on meeting her at the villa, but was thankful for an opportunity to repair the accident. Had not Mr. Osmond remarked that she was a respectable person? To have proceeded from Gilbert Osmond this was a crude proposition, but Madame Merle bestowed upon it a certain improving polish. She told Isabel more about the poor Countess than Mr. Osmond had done, and related the history of her marriage and its consequences. The Count was a member of an ancient Tuscan family, but of such small estate that he had been glad to accept Amy Osmond, in spite of the questionable beauty which had yet not hampered her career, with the modest dowry her mother was able to offer—a sum about equivalent to that which had already formed her brother’s share of their patrimony. Count Gemini since then, however, had inherited money, and now they were well enough off, as Italians went, though Amy was horribly extravagant. The Count was a low-lived brute; he had given his wife every pretext. She had no children; she had lost three within a year of their birth. Her mother, who had bristled with pretensions to elegant learning and published descriptive poems and corresponded on Italian subjects with the English weekly journals, her mother had died three years after the Countess’s marriage, the father, lost in the grey American dawn of the situation, but reputed originally rich and wild, having died much earlier. One could see this in Gilbert Osmond, Madame Merle heldsee that he had been brought up by a woman; though, to do him justice, one would suppose it had been by a more sensible woman than the American Corinne, as Mrs. Osmond had liked to be called. She had brought her children to Italy after her husband’s death, and Mrs. Touchett remembered her during the year that followed her arrival. She thought her a horrible snob; but this was an irregularity of judgement on Mrs. Touchett’s part, for she, like Mrs. Osmond, approved of political marriages. The Countess was very good company and not really the featherhead she seemed; all one had to do with her was to observe the simple condition of not believing a word she said. Madame Merle had always made the best of her for her brother’s sake; he appreciated any kindness shown to Amy, because (if it had to be confessed for him) he rather felt she let down their common name. Naturally he couldn’t like her style, her shrillness, her egotism, her violations of taste and above all of truth: she acted badly on his nerves, she was not his sort of woman. What was his sort of woman? Oh, the very opposite of the Countess, a woman to whom the truth should be habitually sacred. Isabel was unable to estimate the number of times her visitor had, in half an hour, profaned it: the Countess indeed had given her an impression of rather silly sincerity. She had talked almost exclusively about herself; how much she should like to know Miss Archer; how thankful she should be for a real friend; how base the people in Florence were; how tired she was of the place; how much she should like to live somewhere else—in Paris, in London, in Washington; how impossible it was to get anything nice to wear in Italy except a little old lace; how dear the world was growing everywhere; what a life of suffering and privation she had led. Madame Merle listened with interest to Isabel’s account of this passage, but she had not needed it to feel exempt from anxiety. On the whole she was not afraid of the Countess, and she could afford to do what was altogether best—not to appear so.
梅尔夫人以极大的热情和智慧为这位不幸的女士辩护。她不明白为什么图切特夫人要把一个真正没有造成任何伤害、只是以错误的方式行善的女人当作替罪羊。人们当然必须划清界限，但当有人在谈论它时，我们应该把它画直：这是一个非常弯曲的粉笔标记，将排除双子伯爵夫人。在这种情况下，图切特夫人最好把她的房子关起来。只要她留在佛罗伦萨，这也许是最好的选择。一定要公平，不能任意区别：伯爵夫人无疑是不谨慎的，她不像其他女人那么聪明。她是个好人，一点也不聪明。但从什么时候起，这成为了被排除在最好社会之外的理由呢？长期以来，人们对她一无所知，没有什么比她渴望成为图切特夫人圈子里的一员更能证明她已经放弃了自己的错误。伊莎贝尔对这场有趣的争论毫无贡献，甚至连耐心的关注都没有。她满足于对这位不幸的女士表示友好的欢迎，无论她有什么缺点，至少有作为奥斯蒙德先生的妹妹的优点。当她喜欢弟弟时，伊莎贝尔认为尝试喜欢妹妹是正确的：尽管事情变得越来越复杂，她仍然能够完成这些原始的序列。在别墅见到伯爵夫人时，她并没有给她留下最愉快的印象，但她很庆幸有机会弥补这次事故。奥斯蒙德先生不是说她是一个值得尊敬的人吗？从吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德出发，这是一个粗略的提议，但梅尔夫人对其进行了一定的改进。她对伊莎贝尔讲述的关于可怜的伯爵夫人的事比关于先生的事还要多。 奥斯蒙德已经这样做了，并讲述了她婚姻的历史及其后果。伯爵是一个古老的托斯卡纳家庭的成员，但庄园很小，他很高兴接受了艾米·奥斯蒙德，尽管艾米·奥斯蒙德的美貌值得怀疑，但这并没有妨碍她的事业，而且她母亲能够提供适度的嫁妆。 ——这笔钱大约相当于她哥哥在他们的遗产中所占的份额。然而，从那时起，双子伯爵就继承了金钱，现在他们已经像意大利人那样过上了富裕的生活，尽管艾米极其奢侈。伯爵是个下流的畜生。他给了他妻子各种借口。她没有孩子；她在孩子出生后一年内就失去了三个孩子。她的母亲自诩学识高雅，发表过描述性诗歌，并与英文周刊就意大利主题进行通信，她的母亲在伯爵夫人结婚三年后就去世了，父亲则迷失在美国灰色的黎明局势中，但原本就以富有和狂野着称，但死得更早。人们可以在吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德身上看到这一点，梅尔夫人认为他是由一个女人抚养长大的。不过，公平地说，人们会认为这是一位比美国人科琳娜（奥斯蒙德夫人喜欢被称为科琳娜）更明智的女人所为。丈夫去世后，她带着孩子们来到了意大利，图切特夫人在她抵达后的一年里还记得她。她认为她是个可怕的势利小人。但这是图切特夫人的判断失误，因为她和奥斯蒙德夫人一样，赞成政治婚姻。伯爵夫人是个很好的伙伴，但她并不像她看上去那样轻率。人们对她所做的一切就是观察一个简单的情况：不相信她所说的任何一句话。 梅尔夫人总是为了她哥哥而尽力而为。他很感激对艾米表现出的任何善意，因为（如果必须为他承认的话）他宁愿觉得她辜负了他们的共同名字。自然，他不喜欢她的风格，她的尖刻，她的自负，她对品味的侵犯，最重要的是她对真理的侵犯：她的行为让他很紧张，她不是他喜欢的女人。他的女人是什么样的？哦，这与伯爵夫人恰恰相反，对她来说，真理应该是习惯性的神圣。伊莎贝尔无法估计她的访客在半小时内亵渎了它的次数：伯爵夫人确实给她留下了相当愚蠢的真诚印象。她几乎只谈论自己。她多么想认识阿切尔小姐啊！她应该多么感激有一个真正的朋友；佛罗伦萨人是多么卑鄙；她对这个地方有多厌倦？她多么想住在其他地方——巴黎、伦敦、华盛顿；在意大利，除了一点旧蕾丝之外，不可能买到任何好看的衣服；世界各地都在成长，多么昂贵；她过着多么痛苦和匮乏的生活啊。梅尔夫人饶有兴趣地听着伊莎贝尔对这段话的叙述，但她并不需要它来摆脱焦虑。总的来说，她并不害怕伯爵夫人，而且她可以做最好的事情——不要表现得如此。

Isabel had meanwhile another visitor, whom it was not, even behind her back, so easy a matter to patronize. Henrietta Stackpole, who had left Paris after Mrs. Touchett’s departure for San Remo and had worked her way down, as she said, through the cities of North Italy, reached the banks of the Arno about the middle of May. Madame Merle surveyed her with a single glance, took her in from head to foot, and after a pang of despair determined to endure her. She determined indeed to delight in her. She mightn’t be inhaled as a rose, but she might be grasped as a nettle. Madame Merle genially squeezed her into insignificance, and Isabel felt that in foreseeing this liberality she had done justice to her friend’s intelligence. Henrietta’s arrival had been announced by Mr. Bantling, who, coming down from Nice while she was at Venice, and expecting to find her in Florence, which she had not yet reached, called at Palazzo Crescentini to express his disappointment. Henrietta’s own advent occurred two days later and produced in Mr. Bantling an emotion amply accounted for by the fact that he had not seen her since the termination of the episode at Versailles. The humorous view of his situation was generally taken, but it was uttered only by Ralph Touchett, who, in the privacy of his own apartment, when Bantling smoked a cigar there, indulged in goodness knew what strong comedy on the subject of the all-judging one and her British backer. This gentleman took the joke in perfectly good part and candidly confessed that he regarded the affair as a positive intellectual adventure. He liked Miss Stackpole extremely; he thought she had a wonderful head on her shoulders, and found great comfort in the society of a woman who was not perpetually thinking about what would be said and how what she did, how what they did—and they had done things!—would look. Miss Stackpole never cared how anything looked, and, if she didn’t care, pray why should he? But his curiosity had been roused; he wanted awfully to see if she ever would care. He was prepared to go as far as she—he didn’t see why he should break down first.
与此同时，伊莎贝尔迎来了另一位访客，但即便是在她背后，也不是那么容易光顾的。亨利埃塔·斯塔克波尔（Henrietta Stackpole）在图切特夫人前往圣雷莫后离开了巴黎，并按照她的说法，穿过意大利北部的城市，于五月中旬到达了阿尔诺河岸。梅尔夫人看了她一眼，从头到脚打量了她一番，在一阵绝望之后决定忍耐她。她确实决定要取悦她。她可能不会像玫瑰一样被吸入，但她可能会像荨麻一样被抓住。梅尔夫人和蔼地把她压到了微不足道的地步，伊莎贝尔觉得，她预见到了这种慷慨，这对她朋友的智慧是公正的。班特林先生宣布了亨丽埃塔的到来，她在威尼斯期间从尼斯赶来，希望在她尚未到达的佛罗伦萨找到她，于是他到克雷森蒂尼宫拜访，表达了他的失望之情。两天后，亨丽埃塔亲自出现，班特林先生产生了一种情绪，这充分解释了自从凡尔赛宫事件结束后他就没有见过她。人们普遍对他的处境采取了幽默的看法，但只有拉尔夫·图切特才这么说，当班特林在那里抽雪茄时，他在自己的公寓的私密空间里沉迷于天知道关于这一切的主题有多么强烈的喜剧——评判一个人和她的英国支持者。这位先生完全接受了这个笑话，并坦白地承认，他认为这件事是一次积极的智力冒险。 他非常喜欢斯塔克波尔小姐。他认为她有一个出色的头脑，并在一个女人的社会中找到了极大的安慰，因为她不会永远想着会说什么，她会做什么，他们会做什么——他们已经做了事情！看。斯塔克波尔小姐从不关心任何东西看起来如何，而且，如果她不在乎，祈祷他为什么要关心呢？但他的好奇心被勾起来了。他很想看看她是否会在乎。他已经做好了和她一样的准备——他不明白自己为什么要先崩溃。

Henrietta showed no signs of breaking down. Her prospects had brightened on her leaving England, and she was now in the full enjoyment of her copious resources. She had indeed been obliged to sacrifice her hopes with regard to the inner life; the social question, on the Continent, bristled with difficulties even more numerous than those she had encountered in England. But on the Continent there was the outer life, which was palpable and visible at every turn, and more easily convertible to literary uses than the customs of those opaque islanders. Out of doors in foreign lands, as she ingeniously remarked, one seemed to see the right side of the tapestry; out of doors in England one seemed to see the wrong side, which gave one no notion of the figure. The admission costs her historian a pang, but Henrietta, despairing of more occult things, was now paying much attention to the outer life. She had been studying it for two months at Venice, from which city she sent to the Interviewer a conscientious account of the gondolas, the Piazza, the Bridge of Sighs, the pigeons and the young boatman who chanted Tasso. The Interviewer was perhaps disappointed, but Henrietta was at least seeing Europe. Her present purpose was to get down to Rome before the malaria should come on—he apparently supposed that it began on a fixed day; and with this design she was to spend at present but few days in Florence. Mr. Bantling was to go with her to Rome, and she pointed out to Isabel that as he had been there before, as he was a military man and as he had had a classical education—he had been bred at Eton, where they study nothing but Latin and Whyte-Melville, said Miss Stackpole—he would be a most useful companion in the city of the Caesars. At this juncture Ralph had the happy idea of proposing to Isabel that she also, under his own escort, should make a pilgrimage to Rome. She expected to pass a portion of the next winter there—that was very well; but meantime there was no harm in surveying the field. There were ten days left of the beautiful month of May—the most precious month of all to the true Rome lover. Isabel would become a Rome-lover; that was a foregone conclusion. She was provided with a trusty companion of her own sex, whose society, thanks to the fact of other calls on this lady’s attention, would probably not be oppressive. Madame Merle would remain with Mrs. Touchett; she had left Rome for the summer and wouldn’t care to return. She professed herself delighted to be left at peace in Florence; she had locked up her apartment and sent her cook home to Palestrina. She urged Isabel, however, to assent to Ralph’s proposal, and assured her that a good introduction to Rome was not a thing to be despised. Isabel in truth needed no urging, and the party of four arranged its little journey. Mrs. Touchett, on this occasion, had resigned herself to the absence of a duenna; we have seen that she now inclined to the belief that her niece should stand alone. One of Isabel’s preparations consisted of her seeing Gilbert Osmond before she started and mentioning her intention to him.
亨丽埃塔没有表现出崩溃的迹象。离开英国后，她的前景变得光明，现在她可以充分享受她丰富的资源。她确实不得不牺牲对内心生活的希望；欧洲大陆的社会问题充满了困难，甚至比她在英国遇到的困难还要多。但在欧洲大陆上，还有外在的生活，这种生活处处可见，而且比那些不透明的岛民的习俗更容易转化为文学用途。正如她巧妙地指出的那样，在异国他乡的户外，人们似乎看到了挂毯的右侧；在英格兰的户外，人们似乎看到了错误的一面，这让人们对这个数字一无所知。这一承认让她的历史学家感到一阵痛苦，但亨利埃塔对更神秘的事物感到绝望，现在更加关注外部生活。她在威尼斯研究了两个月，从这座城市向采访者发送了一份关于贡多拉、广场、叹息桥、鸽子和吟诵塔索的年轻船夫的认真描述。采访者也许很失望，但亨利埃塔至少看到了欧洲。她目前的目的是在疟疾发作之前赶到罗马——他显然认为疟疾会在固定的日子开始；但他认为疟疾是在固定的日子开始的。按照这个计划，她目前将在佛罗伦萨度过几天。班特林先生要和她一起去罗马，她向伊莎贝尔指出，因为他以前来过那里，因为他是一名军人，而且他接受过古典教育——他是在伊顿公学长大的，他们在那里学习斯塔克波尔小姐说，除了拉丁语和怀特梅尔维尔语之外什么都没有——他将成为凯撒城里最有用的同伴。 就在这个时候，拉尔夫有了一个愉快的想法，他向伊莎贝尔提议，她也应该在他自己的护送下前往罗马朝圣。她预计明年冬天的一部分时间会在那里度过——那很好；但与此同时，勘察现场也没有什么坏处。距离美丽的五月还有十天——对于真正的罗马爱好者来说，这是最珍贵的月份。伊莎贝尔后来成为罗马情人。这是已成定局。她有一个值得信赖的同性伴侣，由于其他人会引起这位女士的注意，她的社会可能不会感到压抑。梅尔夫人将留在图切特夫人身边。她已经离开罗马过夏天了，不想再回来了。她声称自己很高兴能够平静地留在佛罗伦萨。她锁上了自己的公寓，并把厨师打发回了帕莱斯特里纳。然而，她敦促伊莎贝尔同意拉尔夫的提议，并向她保证，对罗马的良好介绍并不是一件值得轻视的事情。事实上，伊莎贝尔不需要催促，四人一行就安排了这次短暂的旅程。这一次，杜埃纳夫人的缺席，图切特夫人已经听天由命了。我们已经看到，她现在倾向于认为她的侄女应该独自一人。伊莎贝尔的准备工作之一包括在开始之前见吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德并向他提及她的意图。

‘I should like to be in Rome with you,’ he commented. ‘I should like to see you on that wonderful ground.’
“我想和你一起去罗马，”他评论道。 “我很想在那片美妙的土地上见到你。”

She scarcely faltered. ‘You might come then.’
她几乎没有动摇。 “那你也许会来。”

‘But you’ll have a lot of people with you.’
“但是会有很多人陪伴你。”

‘Ah,’ Isabel admitted, ‘of course I shall not be alone.’
“啊，”伊莎贝尔承认，“我当然不会孤单。”

For a moment he said nothing more. ‘You’ll like it,’ he went on at last. They’ve spoiled it, but you’ll rave about it.’
一时间他什么也没说。 “你会喜欢的，”他最后继续说道。他们已经破坏了它，但你会对它赞不绝口。

‘Ought I to dislike it because, poor old dear—the Niobe of Nations, you know—it has been spoiled?’ she asked.
“我应该不喜欢它吗，因为，可怜的老亲爱的——万国之尼俄伯，你知道——它已经被宠坏了？”她问道。

‘No, I think not. It has been spoiled so often,’ he smiled: ‘If I were to go, what should I do with my little girl?’
‘不，我想不是。它已经被宠坏了太多次了，”他微笑着说，“如果我要走了，我该怎么办我的小女儿呢？”

‘Can’t you leave her at the villa?’
“你不能把她留在别墅吗？”

‘I don’t know that I like that—though there’s a very good old woman who looks after her. I can’t afford a governess.’
“我不知道我是否喜欢这样——尽管有一个很好的老妇人照顾她。我请不起家庭教师。

‘Bring her with you then,’ said Isabel promptly.
“那就带她一起去吧，”伊莎贝尔立即说道。

Mr. Osmond looked grave. ‘She has been in Rome all winter, at her convent; and she’s too young to make journeys of pleasure.’
奥斯蒙德先生表情严肃。 “整个冬天她都在罗马的修道院里；她还太年轻，无法进行快乐的旅行。

‘You don’t like bringing her forward?’ Isabel enquired.
“你不喜欢带她过来吗？”伊莎贝尔问道。

‘No, I think young girls should be kept out of the world.’
“不，我认为年轻女孩应该远离这个世界。”

‘I was brought up on a different system.’
“我是在不同的体系下长大的。”

‘You? Oh, with you it succeeded, because you—you were exceptional.’
'你？哦，有了你，它就成功了，因为你——你很出色。”

‘I don’t see why,’ said Isabel, who, however, was not sure there was not some truth in the speech.
“我不明白为什么，”伊莎贝尔说，但她不确定演讲中有没有道理。

Mr. Osmond didn’t explain; he simply went on: ‘If I thought it would make her resemble you to join a social group in Rome I’d take her there tomorrow.’
奥斯蒙德先生没有解释；他只是继续说道：“如果我认为加入罗马的一个社交团体会让她变得像你一样，我明天就会带她去那里。”

‘Don’t make her resemble me,’ said Isabel. ‘Keep her like herself.’
“别让她像我，”伊莎贝尔说。 “让她像她自己一样。”

‘I might send her to my sister,’ Mr. Osmond observed. He had almost the air of asking advice; he seemed to like to talk over his domestic matters with Miss Archer.
“我可能会把她送到我姐姐那里，”奥斯蒙德先生说道。他几乎有一种寻求建议的态度。他似乎很喜欢和阿切尔小姐谈论他的家庭事务。

‘Yes,’ she concurred; ‘I think that wouldn’t do much towards making her resemble me!’
“是的，”她同意道。 “我认为这不会让她变得像我！”

After she had left Florence Gilbert Osmond met Madame Merle at the Countess Gemini’s. There were other people present; the Countess’s drawing-room was usually well filled, and the talk had been general, but after a while Osmond left his place and came and sat on an ottoman half-behind, half-beside Madame Merle’s chair: ‘She wants me to go to Rome with her,’ he remarked in a low voice.
离开佛罗伦萨后，吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德在双子座伯爵夫人家遇见了梅尔夫人。当时还有其他人在场；伯爵夫人的客厅通常挤满了人，谈话也很笼统，但过了一会儿，奥斯蒙德离开了自己的位置，走过来，坐在默尔夫人椅子半后面、半旁边的一张脚凳上：“她想让我去和她一起去罗马，”他低声说道。

‘To go with her?’
“和她一起去吗？”

‘To be there while she’s there. She proposed it.’
‘当她在那儿的时候，她也在场。她提议的。

‘I suppose you mean that you proposed it and she assented.’
“我想你的意思是你提议了，她同意了。”

‘Of course I gave her a chance. But she’s encouraging—she’s very encouraging.’
“我当然给了她机会。但她很鼓舞人心——她非常鼓舞人心。”

‘I rejoice to hear it—but don’t cry victory too soon. Of course you’ll go to Rome.’
“我很高兴听到这个消息——但不要太早宣布胜利。你当然会去罗马。

‘Ah,’ said Osmond, ‘it makes one work, this idea of yours!’
“啊，”奥斯蒙德说，“你的这个想法成功了！”

‘Don’t pretend you don’t enjoy it—you’re very ungrateful. You’ve not been so well occupied these many years.’
‘别假装你不喜欢它——你很忘恩负义。这些年来你一直没有这么忙碌过。”

‘The way you take it’s beautiful,’ said Osmond. ‘I ought to be grateful for that.’
“你采取的方式很漂亮，”奥斯蒙德说。 “我应该对此表示感激。”

‘Not too much so, however,’ Madame Merle answered. She talked with her usual smile, leaning back in her chair and looking round the room. ‘You’ve made a very good impression, and I’ve seen for myself that you’ve received one. You’ve not come to Mrs. Touchett’s seven times to oblige me.’
“不过，也不过分，”梅尔夫人回答道。她带着一如既往的微笑说话，靠在椅子上，环顾房间。 “你给我留下了很好的印象，我亲眼看到你也收到了这样的印象。你来图切特太太家七次可不是为了满足我的要求。

‘The girl’s not disagreeable,’ Osmond quietly conceded.
“这个女孩并不令人讨厌，”奥斯蒙德平静地承认。

Madame Merle dropped her eye on him a moment, during which her lips closed with a certain firmness. ‘Is that all you can find to say about that fine creature?’
梅尔夫人的目光落在他身上片刻，同时她的嘴唇紧闭着。 “关于这个美好的生物，你能说的就只有这些吗？”

‘All? Isn’t it enough? Of how many people have you heard me say more?’
'全部？还不够吗？你听过我对多少人说过更多的话？

She made no answer to this, but still presented her talkative grace to the room. ‘You’re unfathomable,’ she murmured at last. ‘I’m frightened at the abyss into which I shall have cast her.’
她没有回答，但仍然向房间里展示着她健谈的风度。 “你真是深不可测。”她最后低声说道。 “我害怕我会把她扔进深渊。”

He took it almost gaily. ‘You can’t draw back—you’ve gone too far.’
他几乎高兴地接过它。 “你不能后退——你已经走得太远了。”

‘Very good; but you must do the rest yourself.’
'非常好;但剩下的事情你必须自己做。”

‘I shall do it,’ said Gilbert Osmond.
“我会做的，”吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德说。

Madame Merle remained silent and he changed his place again; but when she rose to go he also took leave. Mrs. Touchett’s victoria was awaiting her guest in the court, and after he had helped his friend into it he stood there detaining her. ‘You’re very indiscreet,’ she said rather wearily; you shouldn’t have moved when I did.’
梅尔夫人保持沉默，他又换了位置。但当她起身要走时，他也告辞了。塔切特夫人的维多利亚正在法庭上等待她的客人，在他帮助他的朋友进入法庭后，他站在那里扣留了她。 “你太不检点了，”她有些疲倦地说。当我移动时你不应该移动。

He had taken off his hat; he passed his hand over his forehead. ‘I always forget; I’m out of the habit.’
他已经摘下了帽子；他把手放在额头上。 ‘我总是忘记；我已经不习惯了。

‘You’re quite unfathomable,’ she repeated, glancing up at the windows of the house, a modern structure in the new part of the town.
“你真是深不可测。”她重复道，同时抬头看了一眼房子的窗户，这是一座位于城镇新区的现代建筑。

He paid no heed to this remark, but spoke in his own sense. ‘She’s really very charming. I’ve scarcely known any one more graceful.’
他没有理会这句话，只是按照自己的意思说话。 ‘她真的非常迷人。我几乎不知道有谁比他更优雅了。

‘It does me good to hear you say that. The better you like her the better for me.’
‘听到你这么说我很高兴。你越喜欢她，对我来说就越好。

‘I like her very much. She’s all you described her, and into the bargain capable, I feel, of great devotion. She has only one fault.’
'我非常喜欢她。她就是你所描述的那样，而且我觉得她很有能力，非常忠诚。她只有一处错误。

‘What’s that?’
'那是什么？'

‘Too many ideas.’
“想法太多了。”

‘I warned you she was clever.’
“我警告过你她很聪明。”

‘Fortunately they’re very bad ones,’ said Osmond.
“幸运的是，他们都是非常糟糕的人，”奥斯蒙德说。

‘Why is that fortunate?’
“为什么这么幸运？”

‘Dame, if they must be sacrificed!’
“女士，如果他们必须被牺牲的话！”

Madame Merle leaned back, looking straight before her; then she spoke to the coachman. But her friend again detained her. ‘If I go to Rome what shall I do with Pansy?’
梅尔夫人向后靠去，直视前方。然后她对车夫说话。但她的朋友再次拘留了她。 “如果我去罗马，我该拿潘西做什么？”

‘I’ll go and see her,’ said Madame Merle.
“我去看看她，”梅尔夫人说。

Chapter 27
第27章

I may not attempt to report in its fulness our young woman’s response to the deep appeal of Rome, to analyze her feelings as she trod the pavement of the Forum or to number her pulsations as she crossed the threshold of Saint Peter’s. It is enough to say that her impression was such as might have been expected of a person of her freshness and her eagerness. She had always been fond of history, and here was history in the stones of the street and the atoms of the sunshine. She had an imagination that kindled at the mention of great deeds, and wherever she turned some great deed had been acted. These things strongly moved her, but moved her all inwardly. It seemed to her companions that she talked less than usual, and Ralph Touchett, when he appeared to be looking listlessly and awkwardly over her head, was really dropping on her an intensity of observation. By her own measure she was very happy; she would even have been willing to take these hours for the happiest she was ever to know. The sense of the terrible human past was heavy to her, but that of something altogether contemporary would suddenly give it wings that it could wave in the blue. Her consciousness was so mixed that she scarcely knew where the different parts of it would lead her, and she went about in a repressed ecstasy of contemplation, seeing often in the things she looked at a great deal more than was there, and yet not seeing many of the items enumerated in her Murray. Rome, as Ralph said, confessed to the psychological moment. The herd of reechoing tourists had departed and most of the solemn places had relapsed into solemnity. The sky was a blaze of blue, and the plash of the fountains in their mossy niches had lost its chill and doubled its music. On the corners of the warm, bright streets one stumbled on bundles of flowers. Our friends had gone one afternoon—it was the third of their stay—to look at the latest excavations in the Forum, these labours having been for some time previous largely extended. They had descended from the modern street to the level of the Sacred Way, along which they wandered with a reverence of step which was not the same on the part of each. Henrietta Stackpole was struck with the fact that ancient Rome had been paved a good deal like New York, and even found an analogy between the deep chariot-ruts traceable in the antique street and the over-jangled iron grooves which express the intensity of American life. The sun had begun to sink, the air was a golden haze, and the long shadows of broken column and vague pedestal leaned across the field of ruin. Henrietta wandered away with Mr. Bantling, whom it was apparently delightful to her to hear speak of Julius Caesar as a ‘cheeky old boy,’ and Ralph addressed such elucidations as he was prepared to offer to the attentive ear of our heroine. One of the humble archaeologists who hover about the place had put himself at the disposal of the two, and repeated his lesson with a fluency which the decline of the season had done nothing to impair. A process of digging was on view in a remote corner of the Forum, and he presently remarked that if it should please the signori to go and watch it a little they might see something of interest. The proposal commended itself more to Ralph than to Isabel, weary with much wandering; so that she admonished her companion to satisfy his curiosity while she patiently awaited his return. The hour and the place were much to her taste—she should enjoy being briefly alone. Ralph accordingly went off with the cicerone while Isabel sat down on a prostrate column near the foundations of the Capitol. She wanted a short solitude, but she was not long to enjoy it. Keen as was her interest in the rugged relics of the Roman past that lay scattered about her and in which the corrosion of centuries had still left so much of individual life, her thoughts, after resting a while on these things, had wandered, by a concatenation of stages it might require some subtlety to trace, to regions and objects charged with a more active appeal. From the Roman past to Isabel Archer’s future was a long stride, but her imagination had taken it in a single flight and now hovered in slow circles over the nearer and richer field. She was so absorbed in her thoughts, as she bent her eyes upon a row of cracked but not dislocated slabs covering the ground at her feet, that she had not heard the sound of approaching footsteps before a shadow was thrown across the line of her vision. She looked up and saw a gentleman—a gentleman who was not Ralph come back to say that the excavations were a bore. This personage was startled as she was startled; he stood there baring his head to her perceptibly pale surprise.
我可能不会试图完整地报道我们的年轻女子对罗马深深的吸引力的反应，分析她踏上广场人行道时的感受，或数数她跨过圣彼得教堂门槛时的脉动。足以说明，她给人的印象是对一个充满新鲜感和热情的人的预期。她一直很喜欢历史，而这里的历史就存在于街道的石头和阳光的原子中。她的想象力一提到伟大的事迹就会被点燃，无论她走到哪里，都会发生一些伟大的事迹。这些事情强烈地触动了她，但也触动了她的内心。在她的同伴看来，她说话比平时少了，而拉尔夫·图切特，当他似乎无精打采、笨拙地越过她的头顶看时，实际上是在对她进行强烈的观察。根据她自己的衡量，她很幸福。她甚至愿意把这些时间花在她所知道的最幸福的事情上。可怕的人类过去的感觉对她来说很沉重，但完全当代的东西会突然给它翅膀，让它可以在蓝色中挥舞。她的意识如此复杂，以至于她几乎不知道它的不同部分会引导她去往何方，她在沉思的压抑狂喜中四处走动，常常在她所看到的事物中看到比那里更多的东西，但又看不到她的默里列举了许多项目。正如拉尔夫所说，罗马承认了这一心理时刻。喧闹的游客已经散去，大部分庄严的地方又恢复了庄严。天空一片蔚蓝，长满青苔的壁龛里的喷泉的喷水声失去了寒冷，音乐声加倍。 在温暖明亮的街道拐角处，人们偶然发现了一束束鲜花。我们的朋友们在一天下午——这是他们逗留的第三次——去参观论坛的最新发掘工作，这些工作已经在很大程度上延长了一段时间。他们从现代的街道下降到了圣道的高度，他们沿着圣道漫步，怀着崇敬的步伐，但每个人的步伐都不相同。亨丽埃塔·斯塔克波尔 (Henrietta Stackpole) 对古罗马的路面铺设与纽约非常相似这一事实感到震惊，甚至发现了古董街上深深的战车车辙与表达美国生活强度的过度叮咬的铁槽之间的类比。 。太阳已经开始西沉，空气中笼罩着一层金色的薄雾，残破的柱子和模糊的基座的长长的影子倾斜在废墟上。亨丽埃塔和班特林先生一起闲逛，她显然很高兴听到班特林先生说尤利乌斯·凯撒是一个“厚脸皮的老男孩”，拉尔夫准备向我们的女主人公细心的耳朵提供这样的解释。一位在这个地方徘徊的谦虚的考古学家让自己听从了两人的安排，流利地重复了他的课程，而季节的衰退并没有影响到这一点。论坛的一个偏远角落正在进行挖掘工作，他不久就表示，如果各位大佬愿意去观看一下，他们可能会发现一些有趣的东西。这个提议更适合拉尔夫，而不是伊莎贝尔，因为她已经厌倦了太多的徘徊。于是她告诫她的同伴满足他的好奇心，同时耐心地等待他回来。这个时间和地点很合她的口味——她应该享受短暂的独处。 于是，拉尔夫带着马车离开了，而伊莎贝尔则坐在国会大厦地基附近的一根倒立的柱子上。她想要短暂的独处，但她享受的时间并不长。尽管她对散布在她周围的罗马历史的崎岖遗迹很感兴趣，其中几个世纪的腐蚀仍然留下了如此多的个人生活，但她的思绪在这些东西上停留了一段时间后，已经开始徘徊了，阶段的串联可能需要一些微妙的追踪，才能找到具有更积极吸引力的区域和物体。从罗马的过去到伊莎贝尔·阿切尔的未来是一大步，但她的想象力已经在一次飞行中完成了这一步，现在在更近、更丰富的田野上缓慢盘旋。她沉浸在自己的思绪中，低头看着脚下的一排有裂纹但没有错位的石板，没有听到脚步声靠近，一道阴影划过她的视线。 。她抬起头，看到一位绅士——一位不是拉尔夫的绅士回来说挖掘工作很无聊。此人一惊，一惊；他站在那里，裸露着头，让她显得苍白的惊讶。

‘Lord Warburton!’ Isabel exclaimed as she rose.
“沃伯顿勋爵！”伊莎贝尔站起身来喊道。

‘I had no idea it was you. I turned that corner and came upon you.’
‘我不知道是你。我转过那个拐角，遇见了你。

She looked about her to explain. ‘I’m alone, but my companions have just left me. My cousin’s gone to look at the work over there.’
她环顾四周，想要解释。 “我孤身一人，但我的同伴们却离开了我。我表弟去看那边的作品了。”

‘Ah yes; I see.’ And Lord Warburton’s eyes wandered vaguely in the direction she had indicated. He stood firmly before her now; he had recovered his balance and seemed to wish to show it, though very kindly. ‘Don’t let me disturb you,’ he went on, looking at her dejected pillar. ‘I’m afraid you’re tired.’
'是啊;我明白了。”沃伯顿勋爵的目光模糊地朝她指示的方向移动。他现在坚定地站在她面前；他已经恢复了平衡，似乎很想表现出来，尽管他的态度非常友善。 “别让我打扰你，”他继续说道，看着她沮丧的柱子。 “我担心你累了。”

‘Yes, I’m rather tired.’ She hesitated a moment, but sat down again. ‘Don’t let me interrupt you,’ she added.
“是的，我有点累。”她犹豫了一下，还是坐下了。 “别让我打扰你，”她补充道。

‘Oh dear, I’m quite alone, I’ve nothing on earth to do. I had no idea you were in Rome. I’ve just come from the East. I’m only passing through.’
“哦，亲爱的，我很孤独，我在地球上无事可做。我不知道你在罗马。我刚从东方来。我只是路过而已。”

‘You’ve been making a long journey,’ said Isabel, who had learned from Ralph that Lord Warburton was absent from England.
“你经历了一段漫长的旅程，”伊莎贝尔说，她从拉尔夫那里得知沃伯顿勋爵不在英格兰。

‘Yes, I came abroad for six months—soon after I saw you last. I’ve been in Turkey and Asia Minor; I came the other day from Athens.’ He managed not to be awkward, but he wasn’t easy, and after a longer look at the girl he came down to nature. ‘Do you wish me to leave you, or will you let me stay a little?’
“是的，我在国外呆了六个月——就在我最后一次见到你之后。我去过土耳其和小亚细亚；前几天我从雅典来的。”他设法不显得尴尬，但他并不轻松，在仔细观察了这个女孩之后，他回归了本性。 “你希望我离开你，还是让我留下来一会儿？”

She took it all humanely. ‘I don’t wish you to leave me, Lord Warburton; I’m very glad to see you.’
她以人道的态度对待这一切。 “我不希望你离开我，沃伯顿勋爵；我很高兴见到你。

‘Thank you for saying that. May I sit down?’
‘谢谢你这么说。我可以坐下吗？

The fluted shaft on which she had taken her seat would have afforded a resting-place to several persons, and there was plenty of room even for a highly-developed Englishman. This fine specimen of that great class seated himself near our young lady, and in the course of five minutes he had asked her several questions, taken rather at random and to which, as he put some of them twice over, he apparently somewhat missed catching the answer; had given her too some information about himself which was not wasted upon her calmer feminine sense. He repeated more than once that he had not expected to meet her, and it was evident that the encounter touched him in a way that would have made preparation advisable. He began abruptly to pass from the impunity of things to their solemnity, and from their being delightful to their being impossible. He was splendidly sunburnt; even his multitudinous beard had been burnished by the fire of Asia. He was dressed in the loose-fitting, heterogeneous garments in which the English traveller in foreign lands is wont to consult his comfort and affirm his nationality; and with his pleasant steady eyes, his bronzed complexion, fresh beneath its seasoning, his manly figure, his minimizing manner and his general air of being a gentleman and an explorer, he was such a representative of the British race as need not in any clime have been disavowed by those who have a kindness for it. Isabel noted these things and was glad she had always liked him. He had kept, evidently in spite of shocks, every one of his merits—these properties partaking of the essence of great decent houses, as one might put it; resembling their innermost fixtures and ornaments, not subject to vulgar shifting and removable only by some whole break-up. They talked of the matters naturally in order; her uncle’s death, Ralph’s state of health, the way she had passed her winter, her visit to Rome, her return to Florence, her plans for the summer, the hotel she was staying at; and then of Lord Warburton’s own adventures, movements, intentions, impressions and present domicile. At last there was a silence, and it said so much more than either had said that it scarce needed his final words. ‘I’ve written to you several times.’
她所坐的那个有凹槽的轴可以为几个人提供休息的地方，而且即使对于一个高度发达的英国人来说，也有足够的空间。这个伟大班级的优秀典范坐在我们年轻女士旁边，在五分钟的时间里，他问了她几个问题，相当随意，当他把其中一些问题重复了两次时，他显然有点错过了捕捉答案;也给了她一些关于他自己的信息，这些信息并没有浪费在她平静的女性意识上。他不止一次地重复说，他没想到会见到她，很明显，这次邂逅触动了他，让他做好准备是明智的。他突然开始从事物的无罪性转向它们的严肃性，从它们的令人愉快转向它们的不可能。他被晒得很厉害。就连他那浓密的胡须也被亚洲之火擦亮了。他穿着宽松、异质的衣服，这是英国旅行者在异国他乡时习惯穿的衣服，以确保他的舒适度并确认他的国籍。他那双令人愉快、稳定的眼睛，古铜色的肤色，在岁月的磨砺下显得清新，有男子气概的身材，低调的态度，以及绅士和探险家的普遍气质，他是英国种族的代表，在任何情况下都不需要。已被那些对此有善意的人所否认。伊莎贝尔注意到了这些事情，很高兴她一直喜欢他。显然，尽管遭受了震惊，他仍然保留了他的每一项优点——正如人们所说的那样，这些财产分享了伟大体面的房子的本质；类似于它们最里面的固定装置和装饰品，不会受到粗俗的移动的影响，只有通过某种整体分解才能拆卸。 他们自然而然地谈论着事情。她叔叔的去世，拉尔夫的健康状况，她度过冬天的方式，她对罗马的访问，她返回佛罗伦萨，她的夏天计划，她住的旅馆；然后是沃伯顿勋爵自己的冒险、行动、意图、印象和目前的住所。最后一片寂静，其中所表达的内容比任何人所说的都多，几乎不需要他最后说一句话。 “我已经给你写过好几次信了。’

‘Written to me? I’ve never had your letters.’
‘写给我的？我从来没有收到过你的信。

‘I never sent them. I burned them up.’
“我从来没有寄过它们。我把它们烧了。

‘Ah,’ laughed Isabel, ‘it was better that you should do that than I!’
“啊，”伊莎贝尔笑道，“你做这件事比我做更好！”

‘I thought you wouldn’t care for them,’ he went on with a simplicity that touched her. ‘It seemed to me that after all I had no right to trouble you with letters.’
“我以为你不会关心他们，”他继续说道，他的简洁感动了她。 “在我看来，我毕竟没有权利用信件来麻烦你。”

‘I should have been very glad to have news of you. You know how I hoped that—that-’ But she stopped; there would be such a flatness in the utterance of her thought.
“我应该很高兴听到你的消息。你知道我多么希望——那个——”但她停了下来；她的想法的表达是如此平淡。

‘I know what you’re going to say. You hoped we should always remain good friends.’ This formula, as Lord Warburton uttered it, was certainly flat enough; but then he was interested in making it appear so.
‘我知道你要说什么。你希望我们永远保持好朋友的关系。”正如沃伯顿勋爵所说，这个公式确实足够平淡；但后来他有兴趣让它看起来如此。

She found herself reduced simply to ‘Please don’t talk of all that”; a speech which hardly struck her as improvement on the other.
她发现自己只能说“请不要谈论这一切”；这场演讲并没有让她觉得比另一场演讲有所进步。

‘It’s a small consolation to allow me!’ her companion exclaimed with force.
“允许我这么做真是一个小小的安慰！”她的同伴用力喊道。

‘I can’t pretend to console you,’ said the girl, who, all still as she sat there, threw herself back with a sort of inward triumph on the answer that had satisfied him so little six months before. He was pleasant, he was powerful, he was gallant; there was no better man than he. But her answer remained.
“我无法假装安慰你，”女孩说，她一动不动地坐在那里，对六个月前令他满意的答案感到内心的胜利。他是令人愉快的，他是强大的，他是英勇的。没有比他更好的人了。但她的答案依然存在。

‘It’s very well you don’t try to console me; it wouldn’t be in your power,’ she heard him say through the medium of her strange elation.
“你没有试图安慰我就好了； “这不是你能做到的。”她听到他带着奇怪的兴高采烈说道。

‘I hoped we should meet again, because I had no fear you would attempt to make me feel I had wronged you. But when you do that—the pain’s greater than the pleasure.’ And she got up with a small conscious majesty, looking for her companions.
“我希望我们能再次见面，因为我不担心你会试图让我觉得我冤枉了你。但当你这样做时——痛苦大于快乐。”她带着一种自觉的威严站了起来，寻找她的同伴。

‘I don’t want to make you feel that; of course I can’t say that. I only just want you to know one or two things—in fairness to myself, as it were. I won’t return to the subject again. I felt very strongly what I expressed to you last year; I couldn’t think of anything else. I tried to forget—energetically, systematically. I tried to take an interest in somebody else. I tell you this because I want you to know I did my duty. I didn’t succeed. It was for the same purpose I went abroad—as far away as possible. They say travelling distracts the mind, but it didn’t distract mine. I’ve thought of you perpetually, ever since I last saw you. I’m exactly the same. I love you just as much, and everything I said to you then is just as true. This instant at which I speak to you shows me again exactly how, to my great misfortune, you just insuperably charm me. There—I can’t say less. I don’t mean, however, to insist; it’s only for a moment. I may add that when I came upon you a few minutes since, without the smallest idea of seeing you, I was, upon my honour, in the very act of wishing I knew where you were.’ He had recovered his self-control, and while he spoke it became complete. He might have been addressing a small committee—making all quietly and clearly a statement of importance; aided by an occasional look at a paper of notes concealed in his hat, which he had not again put on. And the committee, assuredly, would have felt the point proved.
“我不想让你有这样的感觉；我当然不能这么说。我只想让你知道一两件事——公平地说，对我自己来说。我不会再回到这个话题了。我对去年向你们表达的内容有非常强烈的感受；我想不出其他什么了。我试图忘记——充满活力、系统地。我试图对其他人产生兴趣。我告诉你这些是因为我想让你知道我尽了我的职责。我没有成功。我出于同样的目的出国——尽可能远的地方。他们说旅行会分散注意力，但它并没有分散我的注意力。自从上次见到你以来，我一直在想你。我也是一样。我同样爱你，我当时对你说的一切也同样真实。在我和你说话的这一刻，我再次清楚地看到，你是如何对我产生不可抗拒的魅力，这对我来说是极大的不幸。在那里——我不能少说。然而，我并不是要坚持。这只是一会儿。我可以补充一点，几分钟后，当我遇到你时，我完全没有想到要见到你，以我的名誉来说，我真希望知道你在哪里。”他已经恢复了自制力，当他说话的时候，事情就完成了。他可能正在向一个小型委员会发表讲话——安静而清晰地表达了所有的重要性；偶尔看看他帽子里藏着的一张笔记，他再也没有戴上帽子。委员会肯定会觉得这一点得到了证实。

‘I’ve often thought of you, Lord Warburton,’ Isabel answered. ‘You may be sure I shall always do that.’ And she added in a tone of which she tried to keep up the kindness and keep down the meaning: ‘There’s no harm in that on either side.’
“我经常想起你，沃伯顿勋爵，”伊莎贝尔回答道。 “你可以确信我会一直这样做。”她用一种她试图保持善意并隐瞒意思的语气补充道：“这对双方都没有坏处。”

They walked along together, and she was prompt to ask about his sisters and request him to let them know she had done so. He made for the moment no further reference to their great question, but dipped again into shallower and safer waters. But he wished to know when she was to leave Rome, and on her mentioning the limit of her stay declared he was glad it was still so distant.
他们一起走，她立即询问他姐妹的情况，并请求他让她们知道她已经这么做了。他暂时没有进一步提及他们的重大问题，而是再次潜入更浅、更安全的水域。但他想知道她什么时候离开罗马，当她提到她的停留期限时，他宣布他很高兴距离仍然如此遥远。

‘Why do you say that if you yourself are only passing through?’ she enquired with some anxiety.
“你自己只是路过，为什么这么说？”她有些焦虑地问道。

‘Ah, when I said I was passing through I didn’t mean that one would treat Rome as if it were Clapham Junction. To pass through Rome is to stop a week or two.’
“啊，当我说我路过时，我并不是说人们会把罗马当作克拉珀姆交汇处。穿过罗马就要停留一两周。”

‘Say frankly that you mean to stay as long as I do!’
“坦白地说，你打算和我一样待在这儿！”

His flushed smile, for a little, seemed to sound her. ‘You won’t like that. You’re afraid you’ll see too much of me.’
他泛红的微笑似乎对她有所启发。 ‘你不会喜欢这样的。你害怕看到我太多。

‘It doesn’t matter what I like. I certainly can’t expect you to leave this delightful place on my account. But I confess I’m afraid of you.’
‘我喜欢什么并不重要。我当然不能指望你因为我的缘故而离开这个令人愉快的地方。但我承认我害怕你。

‘Afraid I’ll begin again? I promise to be very careful.’
‘害怕我会重新开始吗？我保证会非常小心。

They had gradually stopped and they stood a moment face to face. ‘Poor Lord Warburton!’ she said with a compassion intended to be good for both of them.
他们渐渐停了下来，面对面站了一会儿。 “可怜的沃伯顿勋爵！”她带着同情心说道，这是为了他们俩好。

‘Poor Lord Warburton indeed! But I’ll be careful.’
“确实是可怜的沃伯顿勋爵！但我会小心的。

‘You may be unhappy, but you shall not make me so. That I can’t allow.’
‘你可以不高兴，但你不能让我不高兴。我不能允许。

‘If I believed I could make you unhappy I think I should try it.’ At this she walked in advance and he also proceeded. ‘I’ll never say a word to displease you.’
“如果我相信我会让你不高兴，我想我应该尝试一下。”说到这里，她走在前面，他也跟着走。 “我永远不会说一句话让你不高兴。”

‘Very good. If you do, our friendship’s at an end.’
'非常好。如果你这样做了，我们的友谊就结束了。”

‘Perhaps some day—after a while—you’ll give me leave.’
“也许有一天——一段时间后——你会让我离开。”

‘Give you leave to make me unhappy?’
“允许你让我不高兴吗？”

He hesitated. ‘To tell you again-’ But he checked himself. ‘I’ll keep it down. I’ll keep it down always.’
他犹豫了。 “再告诉你一次——”但他克制住了自己。 “我会把它记下来。”我会一直把它记下来。

Ralph Touchett had been joined in his visit to the excavation by Miss Stackpole and her attendant, and these three now emerged from among the mounds of earth and stone collected round the aperture and came into sight of Isabel and her companion. Poor Ralph hailed his friend with joy qualified by wonder, and Henrietta exclaimed in a high voice ‘Gracious, there’s that lord!’ Ralph and his English neighbour greeted with the austerity with which, after long separation, English neighbours greet, and Miss Stackpole rested her large intellectual gaze upon the sunburnt traveller. But she soon established her relation to the crisis. ‘I don’t suppose you remember me, sir.’
拉尔夫·图切特和斯塔克波尔小姐以及她的随行人员一起参观了挖掘现场，这三个人现在从围在洞口周围的土堆和石块中出现，进入了伊莎贝尔和她的同伴的视线。可怜的拉尔夫带着惊奇的喜悦向他的朋友致意，亨利埃塔高声喊道：“天哪，那位大人来了！”拉尔夫和他的英国邻居以一种简朴的方式迎接，就像长期分离后英国邻居们的问候一样，斯塔克波尔小姐休息了。她那充满智慧的目光注视着晒伤的旅行者。但她很快就确定了自己与危机的关系。 “我想你不记得我了，先生。”

‘Indeed I do remember you,’ said Lord Warburton. ‘I asked you to come and see me, and you never came.’
“我确实记得你，”沃伯顿勋爵说。 “我叫你来看我，但你却没有来。”

‘I don’t go everywhere I’m asked,’ Miss Stackpole answered coldly.
“我不会去任何我要求的地方，”斯塔克波尔小姐冷冷地回答。

‘Ah well, I won’t ask you again,’ laughed the master of Lockleigh.
“好吧，我不会再问你了，”洛克利的主人笑道。

‘If you do I’ll go; so be sure!’
‘如果你愿意，我就去；所以一定要确定！

Lord Warburton, for all his hilarity, seemed sure enough. Mr. Bantling had stood by without claiming a recognition, but he now took occasion to nod to his lordship, who answered him with a friendly ‘Oh, you here, Bantling?’ and a hand-shake.
沃伯顿勋爵虽然很欢闹，但似乎是肯定的。班特林先生一直站在一旁，没有表示认可，但现在他找机会向勋爵点头致意，勋爵友好地回答他：“哦，你在这里，班特林？”并与他握手。

‘Well,’ said Henrietta, ‘I didn’t know you knew him!’
“好吧，”亨丽埃塔说，“我不知道你认识他！”

‘I guess you don’t know every one I know,’ Mr. Bantling rejoined facetiously.
“我猜你并不认识我认识的每一个人，”班特林先生开玩笑地回答道。

‘I thought that when an Englishman knew a lord he always told you.’
“我以为，当一个英国人认识一位领主时，他总是会告诉你。”

‘Ah, I’m afraid Bantling was ashamed of me,’ Lord Warburton laughed again. Isabel took pleasure in that note; she gave a small sigh of relief as they kept their course homeward.
“啊，恐怕班特林以我为耻，”沃伯顿勋爵又笑了。伊莎贝尔对这封信感到很高兴。当他们继续回家的路上时，她轻轻地松了一口气。

The next day was Sunday; she spent her morning over two long letters—one to her sister Lily, the other to Madame Merle; but in neither of these epistles did she mention the fact that a rejected suitor had threatened her with another appeal. Of a Sunday afternoon all good Romans (and the best Romans are often the northern barbarians) follow the custom of going to vespers at Saint Peter’s; and it had been agreed among our friends that they would drive together to the great church. After lunch, an hour before the carriage came, Lord Warburton presented himself at the Hotel de Paris and paid a visit to the two ladies, Ralph Touchett and Mr. Bantling having gone out together. The visitor seemed to have wished to give Isabel a proof of his intention to keep the promise made her the evening before; he was both discreet and frank—not even dumbly importunate or remotely intense. He thus left her to judge what a mere good friend he could be. He talked about his travels, about Persia, about Turkey, and when Miss Stackpole asked him whether it would ‘pay’ for her to visit those countries assured her they offered a great field to female enterprise. Isabel did him justice, but she wondered what his purpose was and what he expected to gain even by proving the superior strain of his sincerity. If he expected to melt her by showing what a good fellow he was, he might spare himself the trouble. She knew the superior strain of everything about him, and nothing he could now do was required to light the view. Moreover his being in Rome at all affected her as a complication of the wrong sort—she liked so complications of the right. Nevertheless, when, on bringing his call to a close, he said he too should be at Saint Peter’s and should look out for her and her friends, she was obliged to reply that he must follow his convenience.
第二天是周日。她整个早上都在写两封长信——一封是写给她姐姐莉莉的，另一封是写给梅尔夫人的。但在这两封信中，她都没有提及被拒绝的求婚者威胁她再次上诉的事实。周日下午，所有善良的罗马人（最优秀的罗马人往往是北方的野蛮人）都遵循去圣彼得教堂参加晚祷的习俗；我们的朋友们商定，他们将一起开车去大教堂。午餐后，在马车到来前一小时，沃伯顿勋爵来到巴黎饭店，拜访了一起出去的两位女士，拉尔夫·图切特和班特林先生。来访者似乎希望向伊莎贝尔证明他打算遵守前一天晚上对她做出的承诺；但他并没有这样做。他既谨慎又坦率——甚至没有傻乎乎地纠缠不休，也没有一点点激烈。因此，他让她去判断他只能成为一个多么好的朋友。他谈到了他的旅行，谈到了波斯，谈到了土耳其，当斯塔克波尔小姐问他是否愿意让她去这些国家“花钱”时，他向她保证，这些国家为女性企业提供了一个广阔的领域。伊莎贝尔公正地对待了他，但她想知道他的目的是什么，以及他希望通过证明自己的真诚来获得什么。如果他希望通过表现出自己是个好人来融化她，那么他可能会省去这个麻烦。她知道他身上一切的优越感，现在他所做的一切都不需要照亮视野。此外，他在罗马对她的影响完全是一种错误的复杂性——她喜欢正确的复杂性。 然而，当他结束电话时，他说他也应该去圣彼得大教堂，并应该照顾她和她的朋友，她不得不回答说，他必须方便时。

In the church, as she strolled over its tesselated acres, he was the first person she encountered. She had not been one of the superior tourists who are ‘disappointed’ in Saint Peter’s and find it smaller than its fame; the first time she passed beneath the huge leathern curtain that strains and bangs at the entrance, the first time she found herself beneath the far-arching dome and saw the light drizzle down through the air thickened with incense and with the reflections of marble and gilt, of mosaic and bronze, her conception of greatness rose and dizzily rose. After this it never lacked space to soar. She gazed and wondered like a child or a peasant, she paid her silent tribute to the seated sublime. Lord Warburton walked beside her and talked of Saint Sophia of Constantinople; she feared for instance that he would end by calling attention to his exemplary conduct. The service had not yet begun, but at Saint Peter’s there is much to observe, and as there is something almost profane in the vastness of the place, which seems meant as much for physical as for spiritual exercise, the different figures and groups, the mingled worshippers and spectators, may follow their various intentions without conflict or scandal. In that splendid immensity individual indiscretion carries but a short distance. Isabel and her companions, however, were guilty of none; for though Henrietta was obliged in candour to declare that Michael Angelo’s dome suffered by comparison with that of the Capitol at Washington, she addressed her protest chiefly to Mr. Bantling’s ear and reserved it in its more accentuated form for the columns of the Interviewer. Isabel made the circuit of the church with his lordship, and as they drew near the choir on the left of the entrance the voices of the Pope’s singers were borne to them over the heads of the large number of persons clustered outside the doors. They paused a while on the skirts of this crowd, composed in equal measure of Roman cockneys and inquisitive strangers, and while they stood there the sacred concert went forward. Ralph, with Henrietta and Mr. Bantling, was apparently within, where Isabel, looking behind the dense group in front of her, saw the afternoon light, silvered by clouds of incense that seemed to mingle with the splendid chant, slope through the embossed recesses of high windows. After a while the singing stopped and then Lord Warburton seemed disposed to move off with her. Isabel could only accompany him; whereupon she found herself confronted with Gilbert Osmond, who appeared to have been standing at a short distance behind her. He now approached with all the forms—he appeared to have multiplied them on this occasion to suit the place.
在教堂里，当她漫步在棋盘状的土地上时，他是她遇到的第一个人。她并不是那些对圣彼得大教堂感到“失望”并发现它比它的名气更小的优秀游客之一；她不是那种对圣彼得教堂感到“失望”的优秀游客。她第一次穿过入口处那张巨大的皮革窗帘，第一次发现自己在远方的拱形穹顶下，看到光线从空气中洒下，空气中弥漫着熏香，大理石和镀金的反射由马赛克和青铜制成的，她对伟大的概念不断升起，令人眼花缭乱。此后它就不再缺乏翱翔的空间。她像一个孩子或一个农民一样凝视和思考，她向坐着的崇高者默默致敬。沃伯顿勋爵走在她身边，谈论着君士坦丁堡的圣索菲亚。例如，她担心他最后会引起人们对他模范行为的关注。仪式还没有开始，但在圣彼得大教堂，有很多值得观察的地方，而且由于这个地方广阔，有一些近乎亵渎的东西，这似乎既是为了身体锻炼，也是为了精神锻炼，不同的人物和群体，崇拜者和观众混合在一起，可以遵循他们的不同意图，而不会发生冲突或丑闻。在那壮丽的无边无际的地方，个人的不检点行为只能产生很短的距离。然而，伊莎贝尔和她的同伴并没有犯任何罪。因为尽管亨利埃塔不得不坦白地宣称，与华盛顿国会大厦的圆顶相比，米开朗基罗的圆顶受到了影响，但她主要是向班特林先生的耳朵提出抗议，并将其更为强调的形式保留给采访者的专栏。 伊莎贝尔带着大人绕了教堂一圈，当他们接近入口左侧的唱诗班时，教皇歌手的歌声就传到了聚集在门外的一大群人的头顶上。他们在这群同样由罗马伦敦人和好奇的陌生人组成的人群的裙子上停了一会儿，当他们站在那里时，神圣的音乐会继续进行。拉尔夫、亨丽埃塔和班特林先生显然就在里面，伊莎贝尔向她面前密密麻麻的人群后面望去，看到午后的阳光，被熏香的云彩镀上银色，似乎与华丽的圣歌融为一体，倾斜地穿过浮雕的凹处。高窗户。过了一会儿，歌声停止了，沃伯顿勋爵似乎准备和她一起离开。伊莎贝尔只能陪着他；随后，她发现自己遇到了吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德，他似乎就站在她身后不远的地方。现在他带着所有的形态接近了——这次他似乎把它们加倍以适应这个地方。

‘So you decided to come?’ she said as she put out her hand.
“所以你决定来？”她伸出手说道。

‘Yes, I came last night and called this afternoon at your hotel. They told me you had come here, and I looked about for you.’
“是的，我昨晚来了，今天下午给你的酒店打了电话。他们告诉我你来过这里，我四处寻找你。

‘The others are inside,’ she decided to say.
“其他人都在里面，”她决定说。

‘I didn’t come for the others,’ he promptly returned.
“我不是为了其他人而来，”他立即回答道。

She looked away; Lord Warburton was watching them; perhaps he had heard this. Suddenly she remembered it to be just what he had said to her the morning he came to Gardencourt to ask her to marry him. Mr. Osmond’s words had brought the colour to her cheek, and this reminiscence had not the effect of dispelling it. She repaired any betrayal by mentioning to each companion the name of the other, and fortunately at this moment Mr. Bantling emerged from the choir, cleaving the crowd with British valour and followed by Miss Stackpole and Ralph Touchett. I say fortunately, because this is perhaps a superficial view of the matter; since on perceiving the gentleman from Florence Ralph Touchett appeared to take the case as not committing him to joy. He didn’t hang back, however, from civility, and presently observed to Isabel, with due benevolence, that she would soon have all her friends about her. Miss Stackpole had met Mr. Osmond in Florence, but she had already found occasion to say to Isabel that she liked him no better than her other admirersthan Mr. Touchett and Lord Warburton, and even than little Mr. Rosier in Paris. ‘I don’t know what it’s in you,’ she had been pleased to remark, ‘but for a nice-girl you do attract the most unnatural people. Mr. Goodwood’s the only one I’ve any respect for, and he’s just the one you don’t appreciate.’
她把目光移开；沃伯顿勋爵正在注视着他们。也许他听到过这个。突然，她记起这正是他来花园考特向她求婚的那天早上他对她说过的话。奥斯蒙德先生的话让她脸色涨红，这种回忆并没有消除它的效果。她通过向每个同伴提及对方的名字来弥补背叛，幸运的是，此时班特林先生从唱诗班中出现，以英国的勇气冲破了人群，斯塔克波尔小姐和拉尔夫·图切特紧随其后。我说幸运，因为这也许是一种肤浅的看法；因为在得知这位来自佛罗伦萨的绅士拉尔夫·图切特后，他似乎认为这个案子并没有让他高兴。然而，他并没有因为礼貌而退缩，不久就怀着应有的仁慈对伊莎贝尔说，她很快就会拥有所有朋友。斯塔克波尔小姐在佛罗伦萨见过奥斯蒙德先生，但她已经找到机会对伊莎贝尔说，她喜欢他的程度并不比她的其他崇拜者好，比图切特先生和沃伯顿勋爵，甚至比巴黎的小罗齐尔先生还要好。 “我不知道你身上有什么特质，”她很高兴地说，“但作为一个好女孩，你确实会吸引最不自然的人。古德伍德先生是我唯一尊敬的人，而他正是你不欣赏的人。

‘What’s your opinion of Saint Peter’s?’ Mr. Osmond was meanwhile enquiring of our young lady.
“你对圣彼得学院有什么看法？”奥斯蒙德先生同时询问我们的年轻女士。

‘It’s very large and very bright,’ she contented herself with replying.
“它很大，也很亮。”她满意地回答道。

‘It’s too large; it makes one feel like an atom.’
‘它太大了；它让人感觉自己像一颗原子。”

‘Isn’t that the right way to feel in the greatest of human temples?’ she asked with rather a liking for her phrase.
“这难道不是在人类最伟大的圣殿中感受的正确方式吗？”她问道，语气相当喜欢她的这句话。

‘I suppose it’s the right way to feel everywhere, when one is nobody. But I like it in a church as little as anywhere else.’
“我认为，当一个人默默无闻时，这是感受无处不在的正确方式。但我和其他地方一样不喜欢教堂。”

‘You ought indeed to be a Pope!’ Isabel exclaimed, remembering something he had referred to in Florence.
“你确实应该成为教皇！”伊莎贝尔想起他在佛罗伦萨提到的事情，大声说道。

‘Ah, I should have enjoyed that!’ said Gilbert Osmond.
“啊，我应该很享受这个！”吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德说。

Lord Warburton meanwhile had joined Ralph Touchett, and the two strolled away together. ‘Who’s the fellow speaking to Miss Archer?’ his lordship demanded.
与此同时，沃伯顿勋爵也来到了拉尔夫·图切特身边，两人一起漫步离开。 “跟阿切尔小姐说话的是谁？”勋爵问道。

‘His name’s Gilbert Osmond—he lives in Florence,’ Ralph said.
“他的名字叫吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德——他住在佛罗伦萨，”拉尔夫说。

‘What is he besides?’
“除此之外他还算什么？”

‘Nothing at all. Oh yes, he’s an American; but one forgets thathe’s so little of one.’
‘什么也没有。哦，是的，他是美国人；但人们忘记了他是那么渺小。

‘Has he known Miss Archer long?’
“他认识阿切尔小姐很久了吗？”

‘Three or four weeks.’
“三四个星期。”

‘Does she like him?’
“她喜欢他吗？”

‘She’s trying to find out.’
“她正在试图找出答案。”

‘And will she?’
“她会吗？”

‘Find out-?’ Ralph asked.
“找出——？”拉尔夫问道。

‘Will she like him?’
“她会喜欢他吗？”

‘Do you mean will she accept him?’
“你的意思是她会接受他吗？”

‘Yes,’ said Lord Warburton after an instant; ‘I suppose that’s what I horribly mean.’
“是的，”沃伯顿勋爵过了一会儿说道。 “我想这就是我可怕的意思。”

‘Perhaps not if one does nothing to prevent it,’ Ralph replied.
“如果不采取任何措施来阻止它，也许就不会发生，”拉尔夫回答道。

His lordship stared a moment, but apprehended. ‘Then we must be perfectly quiet?’
勋爵大人愣了一下，但还是愣住了。 “那我们必须保持完全安静吗？”

‘As quiet as the grave. And only on the chance!’ Ralph added.
‘像坟墓一样安静。而且只有机会！”拉尔夫补充道。

‘The chance she may?’
“她有机会吗？”

‘The chance she may not?’
“她有可能不会吗？”

Lord Warburton took this at first in silence, but he spoke again. ‘Is he awfully clever?’
沃伯顿勋爵一开始沉默地听着这句话，但他又开口了。 “他很聪明吗？”

‘Awfully,’ said Ralph.
“太糟糕了，”拉尔夫说。

His companion thought. ‘And what else?’
他的同伴想。 '还有什么？'

‘What more do you want?’ Ralph groaned.
“你还想要什么？”拉尔夫呻吟道。

‘Do you mean what more does she?’
“你的意思是她还有什么？”

Ralph took him by the arm to turn him: they had to rejoin the others. ‘She wants nothing that we can give her.’
拉尔夫抓住他的手臂，让他转过身来：他们必须重新加入其他人的行列。 “她不想要我们能给她的任何东西。”

‘Ah well, if she won’t have You-!’ said his lordship handsomely as they went.
“啊，好吧，如果她不接受你——！”他们走的时候，大人英俊地说。

Chapter 28
第28章

On the morrow, in the evening, Lord Warburton went again to see his friends at their hotel, and at this establishment he learned that they had gone to the opera. He drove to the opera with the idea of paying them a visit in their box after the easy Italian fashion; and when he had obtained his admittance—it was one of the secondary theatres—looked about the large, bare, ill-lighted house. An act had just terminated and he was at liberty to pursue his quest. After scanning two or three tiers of boxes he perceived in one of the largest of these receptacles a lady whom he easily recognized. Miss Archer was seated facing the stage and partly screened by the curtain of the box; and beside her, leaning back in his chair, was Mr. Gilbert Osmond. They appeared to have the place to themselves, and Warburton supposed their companions had taken advantage of the recess to enjoy the relative coolness of the lobby. He stood a while with his eyes on the interesting pair; he asked himself if he should go up and interrupt the harmony. At last he judged that Isabel had seen him, and this accident determined him. There should be no marked holding off. He took his way to the upper regions and on the staircase met Ralph Touchett slowly descending, his hat at the inclination of ennui and his hands where they usually were.
第二天晚上，沃伯顿勋爵再次去酒店看望他的朋友们，在这家酒店他得知他们去看了歌剧院。他开车去歌剧院，打算按照轻松的意大利时尚，在他们的包厢里拜访他们。当他获得入场许可后——那是次要剧院之一——环顾了这座空荡荡、光线昏暗的大房子。一场行动刚刚结束，他可以自由地追求他的任务。在扫描了两三层盒子后，他在其中最大的一个容器中发现了一位他很容易认出的女士。阿切尔小姐面朝舞台坐着，包厢的帘子遮住了一部分。在她旁边，吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德先生靠在椅子上。他们似乎独占了这个地方，沃伯顿猜想他们的同伴利用休息时间享受了大厅相对凉爽的时光。他站了一会儿，眼睛盯着这对有趣的人。他问自己是否应该上去打断这和谐的气氛。最后他断定伊莎贝尔看到了他，这次意外让他下定决心。不应有明显的拖延。他朝上层区域走去，在楼梯上遇见了拉尔夫·图切特，他慢慢地走下来，他的帽子无聊地倾斜着，双手放在平常的位置。

‘I saw you below a moment since and was going down to you. I feel lonely and want company,’ was Ralph’s greeting.
“不久之后我在下面看到了你，并正朝你走去。我感到孤独，需要有人陪伴。”拉尔夫这样打招呼。

‘You’ve some that’s very good which you’ve yet deserted.’
“你有一些非常好的东西，但你却抛弃了。”

‘Do you mean my cousin? Oh, she has a visitor and doesn’t want me. Then Miss Stackpole and Bantling have gone out to a cafe to eat an ice—Miss Stackpole delights in an ice. I didn’t think they wanted me either. The opera’s very bad; the women look like laundresses and sing like peacocks. I feel very low.’
‘你是说我表弟吗？哦，她有访客，不需要我。然后斯塔克波尔小姐和班特林出去一家咖啡馆吃冰——斯塔克波尔小姐喜欢吃冰。我也不认为他们想要我。歌剧非常糟糕；女人们看起来像洗衣女工，唱歌像孔雀。我感觉非常低落。

‘You had better go home,’ Lord Warburton said without affectation.
“你最好回家去。”沃伯顿勋爵毫不做作地说。

‘And leave my young lady in this sad place? Ah no, I must watch over her.’
‘然后把我的小姐留在这个悲伤的地方？啊不，我必须看好她。

‘She seems to have plenty of friends.’
“她似乎有很多朋友。”

‘Yes, that’s why I must watch,’ said Ralph with the same large mock-melancholy.
“是的，这就是为什么我必须观看，”拉尔夫说道，同样装出一副忧郁的表情。

‘If she doesn’t want you it’s probable she doesn’t want me.’
“如果她不想要你，很可能她也不想要我。”

‘No, you’re different. Go to the box and stay there while I walk about.’
‘不，你不一样。到箱子那儿去，我走动的时候就待在那里。”

Lord Warburton went to the box, where Isabel’s welcome was as to a friend so honourably old that he vaguely asked himself what queer temporal province she was annexing. He exchanged greetings with Mr. Osmond, to whom he had been introduced the day before and who, after he came in, sat blandly apart and silent, as if repudiating competence in the subjects of allusion now probable. It struck her second visitor that Miss Archer had, in operatic conditions, a radiance, even a slight exaltation; as she was, however, at all times a keenly-glancing, quickly-moving, completely animated young woman, he may have been mistaken on this point. Her talk with him moreover pointed to presence of mind; it expressed a kindness so ingenious and deliberate as to indicate that she was in undisturbed possession of her faculties. Poor Lord Warburton had moments of bewilderment. She had discouraged him, formally, as much as a woman could; what business had she then with such arts and such felicities, above all with such tones of reparation—preparation? Her voice had tricks of sweetness, but why play them on him? The others came back; the bare, familiar, trivial opera began again. The box was large, and there was room for him to remain if he would sit a little behind and in the dark. He did so for half an hour, while Mr. Osmond remained in front, leaning forward, his elbows on his knees, just behind Isabel. Lord Warburton heard nothing, and from his gloomy corner saw nothing but the clear profile of this young lady defined against the dim illumination of the house. When there was another interval no one moved. Mr. Osmond talked to Isabel, and Lord Warburton kept his corner. He did so but for a short time, however; after which he got up and bade good-night to the ladies. Isabel said nothing to detain him, but it didn’t prevent his being puzzled again. Why should she mark so one of his valuesquite the wrong one—when she would have nothing to do with another, which was quite the right? He was angry with himself for being puzzled, and then angry for being angry. Verdi’s music did little to comfort him, and he left the theatre and walked homeward, without knowing his way, through the tortuous, tragic streets of Rome, where heavier sorrows than his had been carried under the stars.
沃伯顿勋爵走向包厢，伊莎贝尔受到了像对待一位尊贵的老朋友一样的欢迎，以至于他含糊地问自己，她正在吞并什么奇怪的世俗省份。他与奥斯蒙德先生互致问候，奥斯蒙德先生是前一天被介绍认识的，他进来后，温和地坐在一边，沉默不语，仿佛否认他在现在可能提到的话题上的能力。她的第二位来访者惊讶地发现，阿切尔小姐在歌剧表演中显得容光焕发，甚至还有点兴奋。然而，由于她始终是一个目光锐利、行动迅速、充满活力的年轻女子，因此他在这一点上可能是错误的。她与他的谈话还表明她头脑冷静。它表达了一种如此巧妙和深思熟虑的善意，表明她的才能不受干扰。可怜的沃伯顿勋爵也有过困惑的时刻。她在形式上尽可能地劝阻了他。那么，她与这样的艺术和这样的幸福有什么关系，尤其是这样的补偿——准备的语气？她的声音里带着些许甜蜜，可为什么要对他玩这些呢？其他人也回来了。赤裸裸的、熟悉的、琐碎的歌剧又开始了。盒子很大，如果他坐在后面一点，在黑暗中，就有地方可以留下来。他这样做了半个小时，而奥斯蒙德先生则留在前面，身体前倾，肘部放在膝盖上，就在伊莎贝尔身后。沃伯顿勋爵什么也没听到，从他阴暗的角落里也什么也看不见，只看到这位年轻女士在房子昏暗的灯光下清晰的轮廓。又过了一段时间，没有人动。奥斯蒙德先生与伊莎贝尔交谈，沃伯顿勋爵则保留了自己的立场。然而，他这样做的时间很短。随后他起身向女士们道晚安。 伊莎贝尔没有说什么挽留他，但这并不妨碍他再次感到困惑。为什么她要把他的一种价值观标记为完全错误的价值观——而她却与另一种完全正确的价值观无关？他因为不解而生自己的气，又因为生气而生自己的气。威尔第的音乐并没有给他带来什么安慰，他离开了剧院，不知道自己的路，穿过罗马曲折悲惨的街道，走回家，那里的星空下承载着比他更沉重的悲伤。

‘What’s the character of that gentleman?’ Osmond asked of Isabel after he had retired.
“那位先生的性格如何？”退休后，奥斯蒙德问伊莎贝尔。

‘Irreproachable—don’t you see it?’
“无可挑剔——你没看到吗？”

‘He owns about half England; that’s his character,’ Henrietta remarked. ‘That’s what they call a free country!’
“他拥有大约一半的英格兰；这就是他的性格，”亨利埃塔说道。 “这就是他们所说的自由国家！”

‘Ah, he’s a great proprietor? Happy man!’ said Gilbert Osmond.
‘啊，他是一个伟大的业主？快乐的人！”吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德说。

‘Do you call that happiness—the ownership of wretched human beings?’ cried Miss Stackpole. ‘He owns his tenants and has thousands of them. It’s pleasant to own something, but inanimate objects are enough for me. I don’t insist on flesh and blood and minds and consciences.’
“你把这称为幸福——拥有可怜的人类吗？”斯塔克波尔小姐喊道。 “他拥有他的租户，而且有成千上万的租户。拥有一些东西是令人愉快的，但无生命的物体对我来说就足够了。我不坚持血肉、思想和良心。

‘It seems to me you own a human being or two,’ Mr. Bantling suggested jocosely. ‘I wonder if Warburton orders his tenants about as you do me.’
“在我看来，你拥有一两个人，”班特林先生开玩笑地建议道。 “我想知道沃伯顿是否像你对我一样命令他的房客。”

‘Lord Warburton’s a great radical,’ Isabel said. ‘He has very advanced opinions.’
“沃伯顿勋爵是一位伟大的激进分子，”伊莎贝尔说。 “他有非常先进的观点。”

‘He has very advanced stone walls. His park’s enclosed by a gigantic iron fence, some thirty miles round,’ Henrietta announced for the information of Mr. Osmond. ‘I should like him to converse with a few of our Boston radicals.’
‘他有非常先进的石墙。他的公园被巨大的铁栅栏围起来，大约三十英里，”亨利埃塔向奥斯蒙德先生通报。 “我希望他能与我们波士顿的一些激进分子交谈。”

‘Don’t they approve of iron fences?’ asked Mr. Bantling.
“他们不赞成铁栅栏吗？”班特林先生问道。

‘Only to shut up wicked conservatives. I always feel as if I were talking to you over something with a neat top-finish of broken glass.’
‘只是为了让邪恶的保守派闭嘴。我总觉得好像我正在和你谈论一些顶部饰有整齐碎玻璃的东西。

‘Do you know him well, this unreformed reformer?’ Osmond went on, questioning Isabel.
“你很了解他这个未经改革的改革者吗？”奥斯蒙德继续问伊莎贝尔。

‘Well enough for all the use I have for him.’
“足够了，我对他有什么用处。”

‘And how much of a use is that?’
“那有多大用处呢？”

‘Well, I like to like him.’
“嗯，我喜欢喜欢他。”

‘‘Liking to like’—why, it makes a passion!’ said Osmond.
“‘喜欢喜欢’——为什么，这会产生激情！”奥斯蒙德说。

‘No’—she considered—‘keep that for liking to dislike.’
“不，”她想道，“保留这个以表达喜欢和不喜欢。”

‘Do you wish to provoke me then,’ Osmond laughed, ‘to a passion for him?’
“那你想激怒我吗？”奥斯蒙德笑道，“对他产生热情？”

She said nothing for a moment, but then met the light question with a disproportionate gravity. ‘No, Mr. Osmond; I don’t think I should ever dare to provoke you. Lord Warburton, at any rate,’ she more easily added, ‘is a very nice man.’
她沉默了一会儿，但随后以不成比例的严肃态度回答了这个轻松的问题。 “不，奥斯蒙德先生；我认为我不应该敢激怒你。无论如何，沃伯顿勋爵，”她更轻松地补充道，“是一个非常好的人。”

‘Of great ability?’ her friend enquired.
“能力很强？”她的朋友问道。

‘Of excellent ability, and as good as he looks.’
“能力出色，而且和外表一样出色。”

‘As good as he’s good-looking do you mean? He’s very good-looking. How detestably fortunate!—to be a great English magnate, to be clever and handsome into the bargain, and, by way of finishing off, to enjoy your high favour! That’s a man I could envy.’
‘你的意思是说他长得帅吗？他非常好看。多么可恶的幸运啊！——成为一位伟大的英国大亨，聪明又英俊地参与了这笔交易，最后还得到了您的厚爱！这是一个我可以羡慕的人。

Isabel considered him with interest. ‘You seem to me to be always envying some one. Yesterday it was the Pope; today it’s poor Lord Warburton.’
伊莎贝尔饶有兴趣地打量着他。 “在我看来，你总是在嫉妒某人。昨天是教皇；昨天是教皇；今天是可怜的沃伯顿勋爵。

‘My envy’s not dangerous; it wouldn’t hurt a mouse. I don’t want to destroy the people—I only want to be them. You see it would destroy only myself.’
“我的嫉妒并不危险；它不会伤害老鼠。我不想毁灭人民——我只想成为他们。你看，这只会毁掉我自己。

‘You’d like to be the Pope?’ said Isabel.
“你想当教皇吗？”伊莎贝尔说。

‘I should love it—but I should have gone in for it earlier. But why’—Osmond reverted—‘do you speak of your friend as poor?’
“我应该喜欢它——但我应该早点参与它。但为什么”——奥斯蒙德反问——“你说你的朋友很穷吗？”

‘Women—when they are very, very good—sometimes pity men after they’ve hurt them; that’s their great way of showing kindness,’ said Ralph, joining in the conversation for the first time and with a cynicism so transparently ingenious as to be virtually innocent.
“女人——当她们非常非常优秀时——有时会在男人伤害了他们之后怜悯他们；这是他们表达善意的好方法。”拉尔夫第一次加入谈话时说道，他的愤世嫉俗之情如此明显，巧妙得几乎是无辜的。

‘Pray, have I hurt Lord Warburton?’ Isabel asked, raising her eyebrows as if the idea were perfectly fresh.
“请问，我伤害了沃伯顿勋爵吗？”伊莎贝尔问道，扬起眉毛，仿佛这个想法非常新鲜。

‘It serves him right if you have,’ said Henrietta while the curtain rose for the ballet.
“如果你这么做了，那对他来说是对的，”当芭蕾舞剧幕布升起时，亨利埃塔说道。

Isabel saw no more of her attributive victim for the next twenty-four hours, but on the second day after the visit to the opera she encountered him in the gallery of the Capitol, where he stood before the lion of the collection, the statue of the Dying Gladiator. She had come in with her companions, among whom, on this occasion again, Gilbert Osmond had his place, and the party, having ascended the staircase, entered the first and finest of the rooms. Lord Warburton addressed her alertly enough, but said in a moment that he was leaving the gallery. ‘And I’m leaving Rome,’ he added. ‘I must bid you good-bye.’ Isabel, inconsequently enough, was now sorry to hear it. This was perhaps because she had ceased to be afraid of his renewing his suit; she was thinking of something else. She was on the point of naming her regret, but she checked herself and simply wished him a happy journey; which made him look at her rather unlightedly. ‘I’m afraid you’ll think me very ‘volatile.’ I told you the other day I wanted so much to stop.’
在接下来的二十四小时里，伊莎贝尔再也没有见到她的受害者，但在参观歌剧后的第二天，她在国会大厦的画廊里遇到了他，他站在收藏品的狮子前，雕像是垂死的角斗士。她和她的同伴们一起进来，吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德在他们中间再次占据了位置，一行人登上楼梯，进入了第一个也是最好的房间。沃伯顿勋爵非常警惕地对她说话，但很快就说他要离开画廊。 “我要离开罗马，”他补充道。 “我必须向你告别了。”伊莎贝尔听了这句话，现在感到很遗憾，这已经够不合常理了。这也许是因为她不再害怕他续约了；她在想别的事情。她正要说出自己的遗憾，但她克制住了自己，只是祝他旅途愉快；这让他很不高兴地看着她。 “我担心你会认为我非常‘反复无常’。前几天我告诉过你我非常想停下来。”

‘Oh no; you could easily change your mind.’
'不好了;你很容易改变主意。

‘That’s what I have done.’
“这就是我所做的。”

‘Bon voyage then.’
“那就一路顺风吧。”

‘You’re in a great hurry to get rid of me,’ said his lordship quite dismally.
“你急于除掉我，”大人沮丧地说。

‘Not in the least. But I hate partings.’
” “一点也不。但我讨厌分离。

‘You don’t care what I do,’ he went on pitifully.
“你不在乎我做什么，”他可怜兮兮地继续说道。

Isabel looked at him a moment. ‘Ah,’ she said, ‘you’re not keeping your promise!’
伊莎贝尔看了他一会儿。 “啊，”她说，“你没有遵守诺言！”

He coloured like a boy of fifteen. ‘If I’m not, then it’s because I can’t; and that’s why I’m going.’
他的肤色就像一个十五岁的男孩。 “如果我没有，那是因为我做不到；这就是我要去的原因。

‘Good-bye then.’
“那么再见。”

‘Good-bye.’ He lingered still, however. ‘When shall I see you again?’
“再见。”然而他仍然徘徊着。 “我什么时候才能再见到你？”

Isabel hesitated, but soon, as if she had had a happy inspiration: ‘Some day after you’re married.’
伊莎贝尔犹豫了一下，但很快，她仿佛得到了一个快乐的灵感：“有一天你结婚后。”

‘That will never be. It will be after you are.’
‘那永远不会。会在你之后的。

‘That will do as well,’ she smiled.
“这样也行，”她微笑着说。

‘Yes, quite as well. Good-bye.’
是的，也不错。再见。'

They shook hands, and he left her alone in the glorious room, among the shining antique marbles. She sat down in the centre of the circle of these presences, regarding them vaguely, resting her eyes on their beautiful blank faces; listening, as it were, to their eternal silence. It is impossible, in Rome at least, to look long at a great company of Greek sculptures without feeling the effect of their noble quietude; which, as with a high door closed for the ceremony, slowly drops on the spirit the large white mantle of peace. I say in Rome especially, because the Roman air is an exquisite medium for such impressions. The golden sunshine mingles with them, the deep stillness of the past, so vivid yet, though it is nothing but a void full of names, seems to throw a solemn spell upon them. The blinds were partly closed in the windows of the Capitol, and a clear, warm shadow rested on the figures and made them more mildly human. Isabel sat there a long time, under the charm of their motionless grace, wondering to what, of their experience, their absent eyes were open, and how, to our ears, their alien lips would sound. The dark red walls of the room threw them into relief; the polished marble floor reflected their beauty. She had seen them all before, but her enjoyment repeated itself, and it was all the greater because she was glad again, for the time, to be alone. At last, however, her attention lapsed, drawn off by a deeper tide of life. An occasional tourist came in, stopped and stared a moment at the Dying Gladiator, and then passed out of the other door, creaking over the smooth pavement. At the end of half an hour Gilbert Osmond reappeared, apparently in advance of his companions. He strolled toward her slowly, with his hands behind him and his usual enquiring, yet not quite appealing smile. ‘I’m surprised to find you alone, I thought you had company.’
他们握了握手，然后他把她独自留在华丽的房间里，周围是闪亮的古董大理石。她坐在这些人的中间，模模糊糊地打量着他们，目光停留在他们美丽而茫然的脸上。仿佛在聆听他们永恒的沉默。至少在罗马，长时间观看一大群希腊雕塑，不可能不感受到它们高贵的宁静的效果。就像一扇高高的门在仪式上关闭一样，慢慢地将和平的白色大斗篷落在精神上。我特别说是在罗马，因为罗马的空气是产生这种印象的绝佳媒介。金色的阳光与他们融为一体，过去的深沉寂静，如此生动，虽然只是一片充满名字的虚空，但似乎给他们施加了庄严的魔咒。国会大厦的窗户部分关闭了百叶窗，清晰温暖的阴影落在人物身上，使他们更加温和地具有人性。伊莎贝尔在那儿坐了很长时间，在他们一动不动的优雅魅力下，想知道他们睁开的那双心不在焉的眼睛所经历的是什么，以及他们陌生的嘴唇在我们耳中会发出怎样的声音。房间的深红色墙壁使他们显得更加轻松。抛光的大理石地板反映了它们的美丽。她以前见过他们所有人，但她的快乐再次出现，而且更重要的是，因为她再次高兴地独自一人。然而最后，她的注意力被更深层次的生活潮流吸引了。偶尔有一位游客进来，停下来盯着垂死的角斗士看了一会儿，然后从另一扇门出去，在光滑的人行道上吱吱作响。半小时后，吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德再次出现，显然比他的同伴早了一步。 他双手背在身后，缓慢地向她走来，脸上带着一如既往的询问，但不太吸引人的微笑。 “我很惊讶地发现你孤身一人，我以为你有同伴。”’

‘So I have—the best.’ And she glanced at the Antinous and the Faun.
“所以我有——最好的。”她看了一眼安提诺斯和牧神。

‘Do you call them better company than an English peer?’
“你认为他们比英国同行更好吗？”

‘Ah, my English peer left me some time ago.’ She got up, speaking with intention a little dryly.
“啊，我的英国同伴不久前就离开了我。”她站了起来，故意用有点干巴巴的语气说道。

Mr. Osmond noted her dryness, which contributed for him to the interest of his question. ‘I’m afraid that what I heard the other evening is true: you’re rather cruel to that nobleman.’
奥斯蒙德先生注意到她的干巴巴，这让他对这个问题产生了兴趣。 “我那天晚上听到的恐怕是真的：你对那位贵族相当残忍。”

Isabel looked a moment at the vanquished Gladiator. ‘It’s not true. I’m scrupulously kind.’
伊莎贝尔看了一会儿被击败的角斗士。 '这不是真的。我是非常善良的。

‘That’s exactly what I mean!’ Gilbert Osmond returned, and with such happy hilarity that his joke needs to be explained. We know that he was fond of originals, of rarities, of the superior and the exquisite; and now that he had seen Lord Warburton, whom he thought a very fine example of his race and order, he perceived a new attraction in the idea of taking to himself a young lady who had qualified herself to figure in his collection of choice objects by declining so noble a hand. Gilbert Osmond had a high appreciation of this particular patriciate; not so much for its distinction, which he thought easily surpassable, as for its solid actuality. He had never forgiven his star for not appointing him to an English dukedom, and he could measure the unexpectedness of such conduct as Isabel’s. It would be proper that the woman he might marry should have done something of that sort.
“这正是我的意思！”吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德回答道，他的笑话非常高兴，需要解释一下。我们知道，他喜欢原创，喜欢稀有，喜欢上乘、精致。现在他见到了沃伯顿勋爵，他认为他是他的种族和秩序的一个很好的典范，他发现了一个新的吸引力，那就是让一位年轻的女士为自己服务，她有资格在他的精选物品收藏中扮演角色。拒绝如此高贵的一只手。吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德对这位特殊的贵族非常欣赏。与其说是因为它的独特性（他认为这是很容易超越的），不如说是因为它的坚实的现实性。他从未原谅他的明星没有任命他为英国公爵，他可以衡量伊莎贝尔这样的行为是多么出人意料。他可能娶的女人应该做这样的事。

Chapter 29
第29章

Ralph Touchett, in talk with his excellent friend, had rather markedly qualified, as we know, his recognition of Gilbert Osmond’s personal merits; but he might really have felt himself illiberal in the light of that gentleman’s conduct during the rest of the visit to Rome. Osmond spent a portion of each day with Isabel and her companions, and ended by affecting them as the easiest of men to live with. Who wouldn’t have seen that he could command, as it were, both tact and gaiety?—which perhaps was exactly why Ralph had made his old-time look of superficial sociability a reproach to him. Even Isabel’s invidious kinsman was obliged to admit that he was just now a delightful associate. His good-humour was imperturbable, his knowledge of the right fact, his production of the right word, as convenient as the friendly flicker of a match for your cigarette. Clearly he was amused—as amused as a man could be who was so little ever surprised, and that made him almost applausive. It was not that his spirits were visibly high—he would never, in the concert of pleasure, touch the big drum by so much as a knuckle: he had a mortal dislike to the high, ragged note, to what he called random ravings. He thought Miss Archer sometimes of too precipitate a readiness. It was pity she had that fault, because if she had not had it she would really have had none; she would have been as smooth to his general need of her as handled ivory to the palm. If he was not personally loud, however, he was deep, and during these closing days of the Roman May he knew a complacency that matched with slow irregular walks under the pines of the Villa Borghese, among the small sweet meadow-flowers and the mossy marbles. He was pleased with everything; he had never before been pleased with so many things at once. Old impressions, old enjoyments, renewed themselves; one evening, going home to his room at the inn, he wrote down a little sonnet to which he prefixed the title of ‘Rome Revisited.’ A day or two later he showed this piece of correct and ingenious verse to Isabel, explaining to her that it was an Italian fashion to commemorate the occasions of life by a tribute to the muse.
正如我们所知，拉尔夫·图切特在与他的优秀朋友交谈时，相当明显地限定了他对吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德个人优点的认可。但鉴于这位先生在罗马之行的其余时间里的行为，他可能真的觉得自己不自由。奥斯蒙德每天都会花一部分时间与伊莎贝尔和她的同伴在一起，最后让他们成为最容易相处的男人。谁看不到他可以指挥，事实上，既机智又快乐？——这也许正是拉尔夫让他过去那种肤浅的社交外表成为对他的一种责备的原因。就连伊莎贝尔那令人厌恶的亲戚也不得不承认他现在只是一个令人愉快的伙伴。他的幽默感泰然自若，他对正确事实的了解，他说出正确的词语，就像友好地闪烁一根火柴点燃你的香烟一样方便。显然他被逗乐了——作为一个从来不感到惊讶的人所能达到的逗乐程度，这让他几乎鼓起掌来。这并不是说他的情绪明显很高——在欢乐的音乐会上，他永远不会用指关节去碰大鼓：他非常不喜欢高亢、粗糙的音符，不喜欢他所谓的随意胡言乱语。他认为阿切尔小姐有时准备得太仓促了。可惜她有这个缺点，因为如果她没有这个缺点，她就真的什么都没有了；她会像对待手掌上的象牙一样顺利地满足他对她的一般需要。然而，如果他个人声音不大，那么他也很深沉，在罗马五月的最后几天里，他知道一种自满，这种自满与在博尔盖塞别墅的松树下、在小而甜美的草地花朵和苔藓丛生中缓慢、不规则地散步相匹配。弹珠。他对一切都很满意；他以前从来没有同时对这么多事情感到满意过。 旧的印象、旧的享受都焕然一新；一天晚上，回到旅馆的房间，他写下了一首小十四行诗，并在标题前加上了“重访罗马”。一两天后，他把这首正确而巧妙的诗句拿给伊莎贝尔看，并向她解释。这是一种意大利时尚，通过向缪斯女神致敬来纪念生活中的时刻。

He took his pleasures in general singly; he was too often—he would have admitted that—too sorely aware of something wrong, something ugly; the fertilizing dew of a conceivable felicity too seldom descended on his spirit. But at present he was happy—happier than he had perhaps ever been in his life, and the feeling had a large foundation. This was simply the sense of success—the most agreeable emotion of the human heart. Osmond had never had too much of it; in this respect he had the irritation of satiety, as he knew perfectly well and often reminded himself. ‘Ah no, I’ve not been spoiled; certainly I’ve not been spoiled,’ he used inwardly to repeat. ‘If I do succeed before I die I shall thoroughly have earned it.’ He was too apt to reason as if ‘earning’ this boon consisted above all of covertly aching for it and might be confined to that exercise. Absolutely void of it, also, his career had not been; he might indeed have suggested to a spectator here and there that he was resting on vague laurels. But his triumphs were, some of them, now too old; others had been too easy. The present one had been less arduous than might have been expected, but had been easy—that is had been rapid—only because he had made an altogether exceptional effort, a greater effort than he had believed it in him to make. The desire to have something or other to show for his ‘parts’—to show somehow or other—had been the dream of his youth; but as the years went on the conditions attached to any marked proof of rarity had affected him more and more as gross and detestable; like the swallowing of mugs of beer to advertise what one could ‘stand.’ If an anonymous drawing on a museum wall had been conscious and watchful it might have known this peculiar pleasure of being at last and all of a sudden identified—as from the hand of a great master—by the so high and so unnoticed fact of style. His ‘style’ was what the girl had discovered with a little help; and now, beside herself enjoying it, she should publish it to the world without his having any of the trouble. She should do the thing for him, and he would not have waited in vain.
他通常只享受自己的快乐。他常常——他承认这一点——太强烈地意识到某些事情是错误的，某些事情是丑陋的。可以想象的幸福的露水很少降临在他的精神上。但现在他很幸福——可能比他一生中任何时候都幸福，而且这种感觉有很大的基础。这简直就是成功感，是人心中最愉悦的情感。奥斯蒙德从来没有吃过太多。在这方面，他有饱腹感的刺激，这一点他非常清楚，并且经常提醒自己。 ‘啊不，我没有被宠坏；当然，我没有被宠坏。”他在心里重复道。 “如果我在死前成功了，我就彻底赢得了它。”他太容易推理，好像“赢得”这种恩惠首先包括暗中渴望它，并且可能仅限于这种练习。他的职业生涯也绝对没有它。他确实可能向各处的旁观者表明，他正躺在模糊的功劳簿上。但他的胜利，其中一些，现在已经过时了；其他人则太容易了。目前的任务没有预想的那么困难，但是很容易——也就是说很快——只是因为他付出了完全非凡的努力，比他相信自己会做出的努力更大。渴望拥有某种东西来展示他的“角色”——以某种方式展示——一直是他年轻时的梦想；但他的梦想却是这样的。但随着时间的推移，任何明显的稀有证据所附加的条件对他来说越来越粗鄙和可憎。就像吞下几杯啤酒来宣传一个人可以“忍受”一样。如果博物馆墙上的一幅匿名图画是有意识和警惕的，它可能会知道这种特殊的快乐，因为最终突然被认出——就像出自一位伟大大师的手——如此崇高而又不被人注意的事实风格。他的“风格”是女孩在一点帮助下发现的。现在，除了她自己享受它之外，她还应该将它发布给全世界，而他不会遇到任何麻烦。她应该为他做这件事，他才不会白等。

Shortly before the time fixed in advance for her departure this young lady received from Mrs. Touchett a telegram running as follows: ‘Leave Florence 4th June for Bellaggio, and take you if you have not other views. But can’t wait if you dawdle in Rome.’ The dawdling in Rome was very pleasant, but Isabel had different views, and she let her aunt know she would immediately join her. She told Gilbert Osmond that she had done so, and he replied that, spending many of his summers as well as his winters in Italy, he himself would loiter a little longer in the cool shadow of Saint Peter’s. He would not return to Florence for ten days more, and in that time she would have started for Bellaggio. It might be months in this case before he should see her again. This exchange took place in the large decorated sitting-room occupied by our friends at the hotel; it was late in the evening, and Ralph Touchett was to take his cousin back to Florence on the morrow. Osmond had found the girl alone; Miss Stackpole had contracted a friendship with a delightful American family on the fourth floor and had mounted the interminable staircase to pay them a visit. Henrietta contracted friendships, in travelling, with great freedom, and had formed in railway-carriages several that were among her most valued ties. Ralph was making arrangements for the morrow’s journey, and Isabel sat alone in a wilderness of yellow upholstery. The chairs and sofas were orange; the walls and windows were draped in purple and gilt. The mirrors, the pictures had great flamboyant frames; the ceiling was deeply vaulted and painted over with naked muses and cherubs. For Osmond the place was ugly to distress; the false colours, the sham splendour were like vulgar, bragging, lying talk. Isabel had taken in hand a volume of Ampere, presented, on their arrival in Rome, by Ralph; but though she held it in her lap with her finger vaguely kept in the place she was not impatient to pursue her study. A lamp covered with a drooping veil of pink tissue-paper burned on the table beside her and diffused a strange pale rosiness over the scene.
在预定的出发时间前不久，这位年轻女士收到了图切特夫人发来的一封电报，内容如下：“6 月 4 日离开佛罗伦萨前往贝拉吉奥，如果您没有其他意见，就带您去吧。”但如果你在罗马磨蹭就等不及了。’在罗马磨蹭很愉快，但伊莎贝尔有不同的看法，她让姨妈知道她会立即加入她。她告诉吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德她已经这样做了，他回答说，他在意大利度过了许多夏天和冬天，他自己会在圣彼得大教堂的凉爽阴影下徘徊一段时间。他还有十天不会回到佛罗伦萨，到那时她就会出发前往贝拉吉奥。在这种情况下，他可能要过几个月才能再次见到她。这次交流是在酒店的朋友们所住的宽敞的起居室里进行的。当时已经是晚上了，拉尔夫·图切特明天就要带他的表弟回佛罗伦萨。奥斯蒙德发现女孩独自一人。斯塔克波尔小姐与四楼的一个令人愉快的美国家庭建立了友谊，并爬上无尽的楼梯去拜访他们。亨丽埃塔在旅行中自由地结交了朋友，并在火车车厢中建立了一些她最宝贵的联系。拉尔夫正在安排明天的旅程，伊莎贝尔独自坐在一片黄色的垫子上。椅子和沙发是橙色的；墙壁和窗户都披着紫色和镀金的色彩。镜子、照片都有华丽的镜框；天花板呈深深的拱形，上面画满了裸体的缪斯女神和小天使。对于奥斯蒙德来说，这个地方丑陋得令人痛苦。虚假的色彩、虚假的辉煌就像粗俗、吹牛、谎言。 伊莎贝尔手里拿着一本《安培》，是拉尔夫在他们抵达罗马时赠送的。尽管她把它放在腿上，手指也模模糊糊地放在那个地方，但她并没有急于继续学习。她旁边的桌子上有一盏灯，上面覆盖着一层下垂的粉红色薄纸，在整个场景中散发出一种奇怪的苍白玫瑰色。

‘You say you’ll come back; but who knows?’ Gilbert Osmond said. ‘I think you’re much more likely to start on your voyage round the world. You’re under no obligation to come back; you can do exactly what you choose; you can roam through space.’
‘你说你会回来；但谁知道呢？”吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德说。 “我认为你更有可能开始环球航行。你没有义务回来；你可以完全按照你的选择去做；你可以在太空中漫游。

‘Well, Italy’s a part of space,’ Isabel answered. ‘I can take it on the way.
“嗯，意大利是太空的一部分，”伊莎贝尔回答道。 “我可以把它带在路上。

‘On the way round the world? No, don’t do that. Don’t put us in a parenthesis—give us a chapter to ourselves. I don’t want to see you on your travels. I’d rather see you when they’re over. I should like to see you when you’re tired and satiated,’ Osmond added in a moment. ‘I shall prefer you in that state.’
‘在环游世界的路上？不，不要那样做。不要把我们放在括号里——给我们自己一个章节。我不想在旅途中见到你。我宁愿他们结束后见到你。我想在你累了、心满意足的时候见到你。”奥斯蒙德片刻后补充道。 “我更喜欢你处于那种状态。”

Isabel, with her eyes bent, fingered the pages of M. Ampere. ‘You turn things into ridicule without seeming to do it, though not, I think, without intending it. You’ve no respect for my travels—you think them ridiculous.’
伊莎贝尔弯着眼睛，用手指翻阅着安培先生的书页。 “你看似无意，却把事情变成了嘲笑，但我认为，并非无意。你不尊重我的旅行——你认为它们很荒谬。

‘Where do you find that?’
“你在哪里找到的？”

She went on in the same tone, fretting the edge of her book with the paper-knife. ‘You see my ignorance, my blunders, the way I wander about as if the world belonged to me, simply because—because it has been put into my power to do so. You don’t think a woman ought to do that. You think it bold and ungraceful.’
她用裁纸刀磨着书的边缘，用同样的语气继续说道。 ‘你看到了我的无知，我的错误，我四处游荡的方式，就好像世界属于我一样，仅仅是因为——因为我有能力这样做。你认为女人不应该这样做。你认为这既大胆又不雅。

‘I think it beautiful,’ said Osmond. ‘You know my opinions—I’ve treated you to enough of them. Don’t you remember my telling you that one ought to make one’s life a work of art? You looked rather shocked at first; but then I told you that it was exactly what you seemed to me to be trying to do with your own.’
“我认为它很漂亮，”奥斯蒙德说。 “你知道我的观点——我已经听够了你的观点了。”你不记得我告诉过你，一个人应该把自己的生活变成一件艺术品吗？一开始你看起来很震惊；但后来我告诉你，在我看来，这正是你想要用你自己做的事情。

She looked up from her book. ‘What you despise most in the world is bad, is stupid art.’
她从书本上抬起头来。 “世界上你最鄙视的是坏的，是愚蠢的艺术。”

‘Possibly. But yours seem to me very clear and very good.’
‘可能吧。但在我看来，你的想法非常清晰，也非常好。”

‘If I were to go to Japan next winter you would laugh at me,’ she went on.
“如果我明年冬天去日本，你会嘲笑我，”她继续说道。

Osmond gave a smile—a keen one, but not a laugh, for the tone of their conversation was not jocose. Isabel had in fact her solemnity; he had seen it before. ‘You have an imagination that startles one!’
奥斯蒙德笑了——笑容很热烈，但不是笑，因为他们谈话的语气并不幽默。事实上，伊莎贝尔有她的严肃。他以前见过。 “你的想象力令人震惊！”

‘That’s exactly what I say. You think such an idea absurd.’
‘这正是我所说的。你认为这样的想法很荒谬。

‘I would give my little finger to go to Japan; it’s one of the countries I want most to see. Can’t you believe that, with my taste for old lacquer?’
“我愿意伸出我的小指去日本；这是我最想看到的国家之一。以我对旧漆的品味，你难道不相信吗？

‘I haven’t a taste for old lacquer to excuse me,’ said Isabel.
“恕我直言，我不喜欢旧漆，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘You’ve a better excuse—the means of going. You’re quite wrong in your theory that I laugh at you. I don’t know what has put it into your head.’
“你有一个更好的借口——去的方式。”你认为我嘲笑你的理论是完全错误的。我不知道是什么让你想到了这个。

‘It wouldn’t be remarkable if you did think it ridiculous that I should have the means to travel when you’ve not; for you know everything, and I know nothing.’
“如果你确实认为我有能力去旅行而你却没有，这很荒谬，那也没什么了不起的。”因为你什么都知道，而我却一无所知。

‘The more reason why you should travel and learn,’ smiled Osmond. ‘Besides,’ he added as if it were a point to be made, ‘I don’t know everything.’
“这就是你应该旅行和学习的更多理由，”奥斯蒙德微笑着说。 “此外，”他补充道，仿佛这是要强调的一点，“我并不知道一切。”

Isabel was not struck with the oddity of his saying this gravely; she was thinking that the pleasantest incident of her life—so it pleased her to qualify these too few days in Rome, which she might musingly have likened to the figure of some small princess of one of the ages of dress over-muffled in a mantle of state and dragging a train that it took pages or historians to hold up—that this felicity was coming to an end. That most of the interest of the time had been owing to Mr. Osmond was a reflexion she was not just now at pains to make; she had already done the point abundant justice. But she said to herself that if there were a danger they should never meet again, perhaps after all it would be as well. Happy things don’t repeat themselves, and her adventure wore already the changed, the seaward face of some romantic island from which, after feasting on purple grapes, she was putting off while the breeze rose. She might come back to Italy and find him different—this strange man who pleased her just as he was; and it would be better not to come than run the risk of that. But if she was not to come the greater the pity that the chapter was closed; she felt for a moment a pang that touched the source of tears. The sensation kept her silent, and Gilbert Osmond was silent too; he was looking at her. ‘Go everywhere,’ he said at last, in a low, kind voice; ‘do everything; get everything out of life. Be happy—be triumphant.’
伊莎贝尔并没有因为他严肃地说出这句话而感到奇怪。她在想这是她一生中最愉快的事情——所以她很高兴能够描述在罗马的这几天，她可能会若有所思地把这比作某个时代的某个小公主的形象，她的衣服裹在斗篷里。国家的统治者拖着一列需要纸页或历史学家才能撑起的火车——这种幸福即将结束。当时她的大部分兴趣都归功于奥斯蒙德先生，这也是她现在才煞费苦心地想表达的一个想法。她已经充分公正地表达了这一点。但她对自己说，如果有危险，他们就不要再见面了，也许这样也好。快乐的事情不会重演，她的冒险经历已经发生了变化，某个浪漫岛屿面向大海的面孔，在享用完紫葡萄之后，她在微风徐徐的时候推迟了。她可能回到意大利，会发现他与众不同——这个奇怪的男人，正如他本来的样子一样让她高兴；与其冒这样的风险，不如不来。但如果她不来，这章就结束了就更可惜了；有一瞬间，她感到一阵剧痛，触动了泪水的源头。这种感觉让她保持沉默，吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德也保持沉默。他正在看着她。 “到处走走，”他最后用低沉而友善的声音说道。 '做任何事;从生活中得到一切。要快乐——要胜利。”

‘What do you mean by being triumphant?’
“你说的胜利是什么意思？”

‘Well, doing what you like.’
“好吧，做你喜欢做的事。”

‘To triumph, then, it seems to me, is to fail! Doing all the vain things one likes is often very tiresome.’
“那么，在我看来，胜利就是失败！”做所有自己喜欢做的​​徒劳的事情往往是非常令人厌烦的。

‘Exactly,’ said Osmond with his quiet quickness. ‘As I intimated just now, you’ll be tired some day.’ He paused a moment and then he went on: ‘I don’t know whether I had better not wait till then for something I want to say to you.’
“完全正确，”奥斯蒙德平静而敏捷地说。 “就像我刚才暗示的那样，总有一天你会累的。”他停顿了一下，然后继续说道：“我不知道我是否最好不要等到那时才跟我说一些我想对你说的话。”

‘Ah, I can’t advise you without knowing what it is. But I’m horrid when I’m tired,’ Isabel added with due inconsequence.
‘啊，在不知道那是什么的情况下我无法给你建议。但当我累了的时候，我会感到很可怕。”伊莎贝尔补充道，语气不合常理。

‘I don’t believe that. You’re angry, sometimes—that I can believe, though I’ve never seen it. But I’m sure you’re never ‘cross.’’
“我不相信这一点。有时你会生气——我可以相信，尽管我从未见过。但我确信你永远不会“生气”。

‘Not even when I lose my temper?’
“即使我发脾气也不行吗？”

‘You don’t lose it—you find it, and that must be beautiful.’ Osmond spoke with a noble earnestness. ‘They must be great moments to see.’
“你不会失去它——你会找到它，那一定很美。”奥斯蒙德语气高贵而诚恳。 “这一定是值得一看的美好时刻。”

‘If I could only find it now!’ Isabel nervously cried.
“如果我现在就能找到它就好了！”伊莎贝尔紧张地喊道。

‘I’m not afraid; I should fold my arms and admire you. I’m speaking very seriously.’ He leaned forward, a hand on each knee; for some moments he bent his eyes on the floor. ‘What I wish to say to you,’ he went on at last, looking up, ‘is that I find I’m in love with you.’
'我不害怕;我应该抱起双臂赞美你。我说得很认真。”他身体前倾，一只手放在膝盖上。有一会儿他的眼睛低垂在地板上。 “我想对你说的是，”他最后抬起头继续说道，“我发现我爱上了你。”

She instantly rose. ‘Ah, keep that till I am tired!’
她立刻站了起来。 “啊，留着吧，直到我累了为止！”

‘Tired of hearing it from others?’ He sat there raising his eyes to her. ‘No, you may heed it now or never, as you please. But after all I must say it now.’ She had turned away, but in the movement she had stopped herself and dropped her gaze upon him. The two remained a while in this situation, exchanging a long look—the large, conscious look of the critical hours of life. Then he got up and came near her, deeply respectful, as if he were afraid he had been too familiar. ‘I’m absolutely in love with you.’
“厌倦了听别人说这些话？”他坐在那里，抬起眼睛看着她。 “不，你可以现在听，也可以永远不听，随你的便。但毕竟我现在必须说出来。”她转过身去，但在动作中她停下来，把目光落在他身上。两人在这种情况下呆了一会儿，交换了很长时间的眼神——生命关键时刻的大而清醒的眼神。然后他起身靠近她，充满敬意，仿佛生怕自己太熟悉了。 “我绝对爱你。”

He had repeated the announcement in a tone of almost impersonal discretion, like a man who expected very little from it but who spoke for his own needed relief. The tears came into her eyes: this time they obeyed the sharpness of the pang that suggested to her somehow the slipping of a fine bolt—backward, forward, she couldn’t have said which. The words he had uttered made him, as he stood there, beautiful and generous, invested him as with the golden air of early autumn; but, morally speaking, she retreated before them—facing him still—as she had retreated in the other cases before a like encounter. ‘Oh don’t say that, please,’ she answered with an intensity that expressed the dread of having, in this case too, to choose and decide. What made her dread great was precisely the force which, as it would seem, ought to have banished all dread—the sense of something within herself, deep down, that she supposed to be inspired and trustful passion. It was there like a large sum stored in a bankwhich there was a terror in having to begin to spend. If she touched it, it would all come out.
他以近乎客观的审慎语气重复了这一消息，就像一个对此事没有什么期望但又为自己所需要的解脱而发言的人。泪水涌进了她的眼眶：这一次，它们顺从了剧烈的疼痛，这种剧烈的疼痛让她觉得不知怎的，一根细螺栓滑落了——向后，向前，她说不出是哪一个。他所说的话让他站在那儿显得美丽而大方，给他带来了初秋金色的气息。但是，从道义上讲，她在他们面前退缩了——仍然面对着他——就像她在类似遭遇之前在其他情况下退缩一样。 “哦，请不要这么说，”她的回答很激烈，表达了对选择和决定的恐惧，在这种情况下也是如此。让她恐惧的恰恰是一种力量，它似乎应该消除所有的恐惧——她内心深处有某种感觉，她应该受到启发和信任的激情。它就在那里，就像银行里存着一大笔钱，让人害怕不得不开始花掉它。只要她碰一下，所有的东西都会出来。

‘I haven’t the idea that it will matter much to you,’ said Osmond. ‘I’ve too little to offer you. What I have—it’s enough for me; but it’s not enough for you. I’ve neither fortune, nor fame, nor extrinsic advantages of any kind. So I offer nothing. I only tell you because I think it can’t offend you, and some day or other it may give you pleasure. It gives me pleasure, I assure you,’ he went on, standing there before her, considerately inclined to her, turning his hat, which he had taken up, slowly round with a movement which had all the decent tremor of awkwardness and none of its oddity, and presenting to her his firm, refined, slightly ravaged face. ‘It gives me no pain, because it’s perfectly simple. For me you’ll always be the most important woman in the world.’
“我不知道这对你来说有多重要，”奥斯蒙德说。 “我能给你的东西太少了。我所拥有的——对我来说已经足够了；但这对你来说还不够。我既没有财富，也没有名誉，也没有任何外在的优势。所以我什么也不提供。我告诉你只是因为我认为这不会冒犯你，而且有一天或有一天它可能会给你带来快乐。我向你保证，这让我很高兴。”他继续说道，站在她面前，体贴地向她倾斜，转动他拿起的帽子，慢慢地转一圈，动作带着尴尬的颤抖，但没有任何尴尬。这很奇怪，并向她展示了他坚定、优雅、略显沧桑的脸。 “这不会给我带来任何痛苦，因为它非常简单。对我来说，你永远是世界上最重要的女人。”

Isabel looked at herself in this character—looked intently, thinking she filled it with a certain grace. But what she said was not an expression of any such complacency. ‘You don’t offend me; but you ought to remember that, without being offended, one may be incommoded, troubled.’ ‘Incommoded”: she heard herself saying that, and it struck her as a ridiculous word. But it was what stupidly came to her.
伊莎贝尔看着自己这个角色——专注地看着，认为她充满了某种优雅。但她所说的并不是任何自满的表现。 ‘你没有冒犯我； “不方便”：她听见自己这么说，她觉得这是一个可笑的词。但这就是她愚蠢的事情。

‘I remember perfectly. Of course you’re surprised and startled. But if it’s nothing but that, it will pass away. And it will perhaps leave something that I may not be ashamed of.’
“我记得很清楚。当然，你会感到惊讶和震惊。但如果仅此而已，它就会过去。也许它会留下一些我不会感到羞耻的东西。

‘I don’t know what it may leave. You see at all events that I’m not overwhelmed,’ said Isabel with rather a pale smile. ‘I’m not too troubled to think. And I think that I’m glad we’re separating—that I leave Rome to-morrow.’
‘我不知道它会留下什么。你看，无论如何，我并没有不知所措。”伊莎贝尔带着苍白的微笑说道。 “我并没有因为太烦恼而无法思考。我想我很高兴我们要分开——我明天就要离开罗马。”

‘Of course I don’t agree with you there.’
“我当然不同意你的观点。”

‘I don’t at all know you,’ she added abruptly; and then she coloured as she heard herself saying what she had said almost a year before to Lord Warburton.
“我根本不认识你，”她突然补充道。然后，当她听到自己说出一年前对沃伯顿勋爵说过的话时，她脸色红了。

‘If you were not going away you’d know me better.’
“如果你不离开，你就会更了解我。”

‘I shall do that some other time.’
“我下次再这么做。”

‘I hope so. I’m very easy to know.’
'但愿如此。我很容易知道。

‘No, no,’ she emphatically answered—‘there you’re not sincere. You’re not easy to know; no one could be less so.’
“不，不，”她斩钉截铁地回答道，“你不真诚。”你不容易认识；没有人比这更糟糕了。”

‘Well,’ he laughed, ‘I said that because I know myself. It may be a boast, but I do.’
“好吧，”他笑道，“我这么说是因为我了解自己。”这可能是一种夸耀，但我确实如此。

‘Very likely; but you’re very wise.’
'很可能;但你很聪明。

‘So are you, Miss Archer!’ Osmond exclaimed.
“你也是，阿切尔小姐！”奥斯蒙德喊道。

‘I don’t feel so just now. Still, I’m wise enough to think you had better go. Good-night.’
‘我现在不这么觉得。不过，我还是很明智地认为你最好离开。晚安。'

‘God bless you!’ said Gilbert Osmond, taking the hand which she failed to surrender. After which he added: ‘If we meet again you’ll find me as you leave me. If we don’t I shall be so all the same.’
“上帝保佑你！”吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德握住她未能放开的手说道。之后他补充道：“如果我们再次见面，当你离开我时，你会找到我。”如果我们不这样做，我就还是一样。

‘Thank you very much. Good-bye.’
'非常感谢。再见。'

There was something quietly firm about Isabel’s visitor; he might go of his own movement, but wouldn’t be dismissed. ‘There’s one thing more. I haven’t asked anything of you—not even a thought in the future; you must do me that justice. But there’s a little service I should like to ask. I shall not return home for several days; Rome’s delightful, and it’s a good place for a man in my state of mind. Oh, I know you’re sorry to leave it; but you’re right to do what your aunt wishes.’
伊莎贝尔的来访者身上有一种安静而坚定的气质。他可能会自行离开，但不会被解雇。 ‘还有一件事。我没有向你提出任何要求，甚至没有想过未来；你必须公正地对待我。但我想询问一下一些服务。我好几天都回不了家；罗马很令人愉快，对于我这样的男人来说，这是一个好地方。哦，我知道你很遗憾离开它；但你按照你姨妈的意愿去做是对的。”

‘She doesn’t even wish it!’ Isabel broke out strangely.
“她根本不希望这样！”伊莎贝尔奇怪地说道。

Osmond was apparently on the point of saying something that would match these words, but he changed his mind and rejoined simply: ‘Ah well, it’s proper you should go with her, very proper. Do everything that’s proper; I go in for that. Excuse my being so patronizing. You say you don’t know me, but when you do you’ll discover what a worship I have for propriety.’
奥斯蒙德显然正要说一些与这句话相匹配的话，但他改变了主意，简单地补充道：“啊，好吧，你应该和她一起去，非常合适。”做一切该做的事；我愿意这么做。请原谅我如此居高临下。你说你不认识我，但当你真正认识我的时候，你就会发现我是多么崇拜礼数。

‘You’re not conventional?’ Isabel gravely asked.
“你不守规矩？”伊莎贝尔严肃地问道。

‘I like the way you utter that word! No, I’m not conventional: I’m convention itself. You don’t understand that?’ And he paused a moment, smiling. ‘I should like to explain it.’ Then with a sudden, quick, bright naturalness, ‘Do come back again,’ he pleaded. ‘There are so many things we might talk about.’
“我喜欢你说这个词的方式！不，我不传统：我就是传统本身。你不明白吗？”他停顿了一下，微笑着。 “我想解释一下。”然后他突然、迅速、明亮地自然地恳求道，“一定要回来。” “我们可以谈论很多事情。”

She stood there with lowered eyes. ‘What service did you speak of just now?’
她低垂着眼睛站在那里。 “你刚才说的服务是什么？”

‘Go and see my little daughter before you leave Florence. She’s alone at the villa; I decided not to send her to my sister, who hasn’t at all my ideas. Tell her she must love her poor father very much,’ said Gilbert Osmond gently.
“离开佛罗伦萨之前，去看看我的小女儿。别墅里只有她一个人；我决定不把她送到我姐姐那里，因为她完全没有我的想法。告诉她，她一定非常爱她可怜的父亲。”吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德温和地说。

‘It will be a great pleasure to me to go,’ Isabel answered. ‘I’ll tell her what you say. Once more good-bye.’
“我很高兴能去，”伊莎贝尔回答道。 ‘我会告诉她你说的话。再次再见。

On this he took a rapid, respectful leave. When he had gone she stood a moment looking about her and seated herself slowly and with an air of deliberation. She sat there till her companions came back, with folded hands, gazing at the ugly carpet. Her agitation—for it had not diminished—was very still, very deep. What had happened was something that for a week past her imagination had been going forward to meet; but here, when it came, she stopped—that sublime principle somehow broke down. The working of this young lady’s spirit was strange, and I can only give it to you as I see it, not hoping to make it seem altogether natural. Her imagination, as I say, now hung back: there was a last vague space it couldn’t cross—a dusky, uncertain tract which looked ambiguous and even slightly treacherous, like a moorland seen in the winter twilight. But she was to cross it yet.
就此，他迅速而恭敬地离开了。他走后，她站了一会儿，环顾四周，然后慢慢地坐下来，神情从容。她坐在那里，直到她的同伴回来，双手交叉，凝视着丑陋的地毯。她的激动——因为它并没有减弱——非常平静，非常深沉。所发生的事情是她想象中一周以来一直期待见到的事情；但到了这里，当它到来时，她停了下来——这个崇高的原则不知何故被打破了。这位年轻女士的精神运作方式很奇怪，我只能将我所看到的告诉你，不希望让它显得完全自然。正如我所说，她的想象力现在退缩了：有一个它无法跨越的最后一个模糊空间——一片昏暗、不确定的区域，看起来模棱两可，甚至有点危险，就像冬日暮色中看到的荒原。但她还得跨过这个坎。

Chapter 30
第30章

She returned on the morrow to Florence, under her cousin’s escort, and Ralph Touchett, though usually restive under railway discipline, thought very well of the successive hours passed in the train that hurried his companion away from the city now distinguished by Gilbert Osmond’s preference—hours that were to form the first stage in a larger scheme of travel. Miss Stackpole had remained behind; she was planning a little trip to Naples, to be carried out with Mr. Bantling’s aid. Isabel was to have three days in Florence before the 4th of June, the date of Mrs. Touchett’s departure, and she determined to devote the last of these to her promise to call on Pansy Osmond. Her plan, however, seemed for a moment likely to modify itself in deference to an idea of Madame Merle’s. This lady was still at Casa Touchett; but she too was on the point of leaving Florence, her next station being an ancient castle in the mountains of Tuscany, the residence of a noble family of that country, whose acquaintance (she had known them, as she said, ‘forever’) seemed to Isabel, in the light of certain photographs of their immense crenellated dwelling which her friend was able to show her, a precious privilege. She mentioned to this fortunate woman that Mr. Osmond had asked her to take a look at his daughter, but didn’t mention that he had also made her a declaration of love.
第二天，她在表弟的护送下回到了佛罗伦萨，拉尔夫·图切特虽然在铁路纪律下通常很不安，但他对在火车上连续几个小时的经历感到非常满意，火车把他的同伴匆匆赶离了这座现在因吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德的偏爱而闻名的城市——这些时间构成了更大旅行计划的第一阶段。斯塔克波尔小姐留在了​​后面。她正计划在班特林先生的帮助下去那不勒斯进行一次短暂的旅行。伊莎贝尔将在 6 月 4 日（也就是图切特夫人离开的日期）之前在佛罗伦萨待三天，她决定用最后的时间来兑现她拜访潘西·奥斯蒙德的承诺。然而，她的计划暂时似乎可能会根据梅尔夫人的想法进行修改。这位女士还在卡萨图切特；但她也即将离开佛罗伦萨，她的下一站是托斯卡纳山区的一座古老城堡，那是该国一个贵族家庭的住所，他们是熟人（正如她所说，“永远”认识他们）伊莎贝尔的朋友向她展示了他们巨大的锯齿形住宅的某些照片，这对伊莎贝尔来说是一种宝贵的特权。她向这个幸运的女人提到奥斯蒙德先生让她看看他的女儿，但没有提到他也向她发出了爱的宣言。

‘Ah, comme cela se trouve!’ Madame Merle exclaimed. ‘I myself have been thinking it would be a kindness to pay the child a little visit before I go off.’
“啊，comme cela se trouve！”梅尔夫人惊呼道。 “我自己一直在想，在我出发之前去拜访一下孩子会是一种善意。”

‘We can go together then,’ Isabel reasonably said: ‘reasonably’ because the proposal was not uttered in the spirit of enthusiasm. She had prefigured her small pilgrimage as made in solitude; she should like it better so. She was nevertheless prepared to sacrifice this mystic sentiment to her great consideration for her friend.
“那我们可以一起去，”伊莎贝尔合理地说：“合理”，因为这个提议并不是本着热情的精神提出的。她原本以为她的小型朝圣之旅是在孤独中进行的。她应该更喜欢这样。尽管如此，她还是准备牺牲这种神秘的情感来换取对朋友的深切关怀。

That personage finely meditated. ‘After all, why should we both go; having, each of us, so much to do during these last hours?’
那人若有所思。 “毕竟，我们为什么要一起去？在这最后的几个小时里，我们每个人都有这么多事情要做吗？

‘Very good; I can easily go alone.’
'非常好;我一个人去很容易。

‘I don’t know about your going alone—to the house of a handsome bachelor. He has been married—but so long ago!’
“我不知道你一个人去一个英俊的单身汉家里。他已经结婚了——但那是很久以前的事了！”

Isabel stared. ‘When Mr. Osmond’s away what does it matter?’
伊莎贝尔凝视着。 “奥斯蒙德先生不在的时候，还有什么关系呢？”

‘They don’t know he’s away, you see.’
“你看，他们不知道他不在。”

‘They? Whom do you mean?’
'他们？你指的是谁？

‘Every one. But perhaps it doesn’t signify.’
'每个人。但也许这并不意味着。

‘If you were going why shouldn’t I?’ Isabel asked.
“如果你要去，我为什么不去呢？”伊莎贝尔问。

‘Because I’m an old frump and you’re a beautiful young woman.’
“因为我是个老邋遢的人，而你是个年轻漂亮的女人。”

‘Granting all that, you’ve not promised.’
“尽管如此，你却没有承诺。”

‘How much you think of your promises!’ said the elder woman in mild mockery.
“你对自己的诺言看得多么重啊！”老妇人带着温和的嘲讽说道。

‘I think a great deal of my promises. Does that surprise you?’
“我认为我的承诺很多。这让你感到惊讶吗？

‘You’re right,’ Madame Merle audibly reflected. ‘I really think you wish to be kind to the child.’
“你是对的，”梅尔夫人大声反思道。 “我真的认为你希望善待孩子。”

‘I wish very much to be kind to her.’
“我非常希望善待她。”

‘Go and see her then; no one will be the wiser. And tell her I’d have come if you hadn’t. Or rather,’ Madame Merle added, ‘don’t tell her. She won’t care.’
“那就去看看她吧；没有人会更明智。并告诉她如果你不来我就会来。或者更确切地说，”梅尔夫人补充道，“不要告诉她。她不会在意的。

As Isabel drove, in the publicity of an open vehicle, along the winding way which led to Mr. Osmond’s hill-top, she wondered what her friend had meant by no one’s being the wiser. Once in a while, at large intervals, this lady, whose voyaging discretion, as a general thing, was rather of the open sea than of the risky channel, dropped a remark of ambiguous quality, struck a note that sounded false. What cared Isabel Archer for the vulgar judgements of obscure people? and did Madame Merle suppose that she was capable of doing a thing at all if it had to be sneakingly done? Of course not: she must have meant something else—something which in the press of the hours that preceded her departure she had not had time to explain. Isabel would return to this some day; there were sorts of things as to which she liked to be clear. She heard Pansy strumming at the piano in another place as she herself was ushered into Mr. Osmond’s drawing-room; the little girl was ‘practising,’ and Isabel was pleased to think she performed this duty with rigour. She immediately came in, smoothing down her frock, and did the honours of her father’s house with a wide-eyed earnestness of courtesy. Isabel sat there half an hour, and Pansy rose to the occasion as the small, winged fairy in the pantomime soars by the aid of the dissimulated wire—not chattering, but conversing, and showing the same respectful interest in Isabel’s affairs that Isabel was so good to take in hers. Isabel wondered at her; she had never had so directly presented to her nose the white flower of cultivated sweetness. How well the child had been taught, said our admiring young woman; how prettily she had been directed and fashioned; and yet how simple, how natural, how innocent she had been kept! Isabel was fond, ever, of the question of character and quality, of sounding, as who should say, the deep personal mystery, and it had pleased her, up to this time, to be in doubt as to whether this tender slip were not really all-knowing. Was the extremity of her candour but the perfection of self-consciousness? Was it put on to please her father’s visitor, or was it the direct expression of an unspotted nature? The hour that Isabel spent in Mr. Osmond’s beautiful empty, dusky rooms—the windows had been half-darkened, to keep out the heat, and here and there, through an easy crevice, the splendid summer day peeped in, lighting a gleam of faded colour or tarnished gilt in the rich gloom—her interview with the daughter of the house, I say, effectually settled this question. Pansy was really a blank page, a pure white surface, successfully kept so; she had neither art, nor guile, nor temper, nor talent—only two or three small exquisite instincts: for knowing a friend, for avoiding a mistake, for taking care of an old toy or a new frock. Yet to be so tender was to be touching withal, and she could be felt as an easy victim of fate. She would have no will, no power to resist, no sense of her own importance; she would easily be mystified, easily crushed: her force would be all in knowing when and where to cling. She moved about the place with her visitor, who had asked leave to walk through the other rooms again, where Pansy gave her judgement on several works of art. She spoke of her prospects, her occupations, her father’s intentions; she was not egotistical, but felt the propriety of supplying the information so distinguished a guest would naturally expect.
当伊莎贝尔开着一辆敞篷车，沿着蜿蜒的小道驶向奥斯蒙德先生的山顶时，她想知道她的朋友所说的无人知晓是什么意思。每隔一段时间，这位女士的航行谨慎性通常是在公海上而不是在危险的航道上，每隔一段时间，她就会发表一些模棱两可的言论，发出听起来虚假的声音。伊莎贝尔·阿切尔为何会关心无名之辈的粗俗判断？梅尔夫人是否认为，如果某件事必须偷偷地做，她有能力做吗？当然不是：她一定是有别的意思——在她离开前的几个小时里，她没有时间解释的东西。伊莎贝尔总有一天会回到这个话题。有些事情她喜欢说清楚。当她自己被带进奥斯蒙德先生的客厅时，她听到潘西在另一个地方弹奏钢琴。小女孩正在“练习”，伊莎贝尔很高兴地认为她严格地履行了这项职责。她立即​​进来，抚平裙子，睁大眼睛，诚挚地礼貌地履行了她父亲家里的荣誉。伊莎贝尔在那儿坐了半个小时，当哑剧中带翅膀的小仙女借助伪装的电线飞翔时，潘西站了起来——不是喋喋不休，而是交谈，并对伊莎贝尔的事务表现出同样的尊重，就像伊莎贝尔那样很高兴接受她的。伊莎贝尔对她感到惊奇；她从来没有如此直接地把一朵散发着甜美气息的白花如此直接地呈现在她的鼻子前。我们钦佩的年轻女子说，这孩子教育得多么好啊！她被指导和塑造得多么漂亮啊！然而她却一直保持着多么单纯、多么自然、多么天真！ 伊莎贝尔一直很喜欢性格和品质的问题，喜欢听上去，谁应该说，深深的个人神秘感，直到现在，她很高兴怀疑这种温柔的失误是否不是真是无所不知。难道她的坦白到了极点，不过是自我意识的完美吗？这是为了取悦她父亲的来访者而穿的，还是纯粹的本性的直接表达？伊莎贝尔在奥斯蒙德先生漂亮、空旷、昏暗的房间里度过的那一小时——窗户半暗着，以遮挡热量，从一处简单的缝隙里，到处可见灿烂的夏日，照亮了一丝微光。褪色的颜色或在浓郁的阴暗中失去光泽的镀金——我说，她对这个房子的女儿的采访有效地解决了这个问题。三色堇实际上是一张空白页，纯白色的表面，成功地保持了这样；她既没有艺术，也没有狡猾，也没有脾气，也没有天赋——只有两三个精致的小本能：认识朋友，避免错误，照顾旧玩具或新衣服。然而，如此温柔就意味着触动，她可以被认为是命运的一个容易的受害者。她没有意志，没有力量反抗，也没有意识到自己的重要性；她很容易被迷惑，很容易被压垮：她的力量就在于知道何时何地该坚持。她和来访者一起在这个地方走动，来访者请求允许再次走过其他房间，潘西在那里对几件艺术品做出了判断。她谈到了她的前景、她的职业、她父亲的意图；她并不自私，但觉得提供尊贵的客人自然期望的信息是适当的。

‘Please tell me,’ she said, ‘did papa, in Rome, go to see Madame Catherine? He told me he would if he had time. Perhaps he had not time. Papa likes a great deal of time. He wished to speak about my education; it isn’t finished yet, you know. I don’t know what they can do with me more; but it appears it’s far from finished. Papa told me one day he thought he would finish it himself; for the last year or two, at the convent, the masters that teach the tall girls are so very dear. Papa’s not rich, and I should be very sorry if he were to pay much money for me, because I don’t think I’m worth it. I don’t learn quickly enough, and I have no memory. For what I’m told, yesespecially when it’s pleasant; but not for what I learn in a book. There was a young girl who was my best friend, and they took her away from the convent, when she was fourteen, to make—how do you say it in English?—to make a dot. You don’t say it in English? I hope it isn’t wrong; I only mean they wished to keep the money to marry her. I don’t know whether it is for that that papa wishes to keep the money—to marry me. It costs so much to marry!’ Pansy went on with a sigh; ‘I think papa might make that economy. At any rate I’m too young to think about it yet, and I don’t care for any gentleman; I mean for any but him. If he were not my papa I should like to marry him! I would rather be his daughter than the wife of-of some strange person. I miss him very much, but not so much as you might think, for I’ve been so much away from him. Papa has always been principally for holidays. I miss Madame Catherine almost more; but you must not tell him that. You shall not see him again? I’m very sorry, and he’ll be sorry too. Of everyone who comes here I like you the best. That’s not a great compliment, for there are not many people. It was very kind of you to come to-day—so far from your house; for I’m really as yet only a child. Oh, yes, I’ve only the occupations of a child. When did you give them up, the occupations of a child? I should like to know how old you are, but I don’t know whether it’s right to ask. At the convent they told us that we must never ask the age. I don’t like to do anything that’s not expected; it looks as if one had not been properly taught. I myself—I should never like to be taken by surprise. Papa left directions for everything. I go to bed very early. When the sun goes off that side I go into the garden. Papa left strict orders that I was not to get scorched. I always enjoy the view; the mountains are so graceful. In Rome, from the convent, we saw nothing but roofs and bell-towers. I practice three hours. I don’t play very well. You play yourself? I wish very much you’d play something for me; papa has the idea that I should hear good music. Madame Merle has played for me several times; that’s what I like best about Madame Merle; she has great facility. I shall never have facility. And I’ve no voice—just a small sound like the squeak of a slate-pencil making flourishes.’
“请告诉我，”她说，“爸爸去罗马去看凯瑟琳夫人了吗？他告诉我如果有时间的话他会的。也许他没有时间。爸爸喜欢很多时间。他想谈谈我的教育。你知道，事情还没有结束。我不知道他们还能对我做什么；但似乎还远未完成。有一天，爸爸告诉我，他认为自己能完成这件事；但他并没有这么做。最近一两年，在修道院里，教导高个子女孩的老师们非常亲爱。爸爸并不富有，如果他为我付很多钱，我会感到非常抱歉，因为我认为我不值得。我学得不够快，而且记忆力也不好。据我所知，是的，尤其是当它令人愉快的时候；但不是因为我在书本上学到的东西。有一个年轻的女孩，她是我最好的朋友，当她十四岁时，他们把她从修道院带走，去画——你用英语怎么说？——画一个点。你不会用英语说吗？我希望这没有错；我只是说他们想保留钱来娶她。我不知道爸爸是不是为了这个才想留下这笔钱——娶我。结婚要花这么多钱！”Pansy 叹息着继续说道。 “我认为爸爸可能会创造经济。无论如何，我还太年轻，还不能考虑这个问题，而且我不喜欢任何绅士；我的意思是除了他之外的任何人。如果他不是我爸爸我真想嫁给他！我宁愿成为他的女儿，也不愿成为某个陌生人的妻子。我非常想念他，但没有你想象的那么想念，因为我已经离开他太远了。爸爸一直主要是为了度假。我几乎更想念凯瑟琳夫人了；但你绝对不能告诉他这一点。你不会再见到他了吗？我很抱歉，他也会很抱歉。在所有来到这里的人中，我最喜欢你。 这不是一个很好的赞美，因为人不多。你今天能来真是太好了——离你家那么远；因为我还只是个孩子。哦，是的，我只有孩子的职业。你什么时候放弃了这些孩子的职业？我想知道你多大了，但我不知道这样问是否合适。在修道院里，他们告诉我们永远不要问年龄。我不喜欢做任何不被期望的事情；看起来好像没有受到正确的教导。我自己——我永远不喜欢出其不意。爸爸给一切留下了指示。我很早就睡觉了。当太阳从那边落下时，我走进花园。爸爸下了严格的命令，不准我被烧焦。我总是欣赏风景；山是那么的优美。在罗马，从修道院里我们只看到屋顶和钟楼。我练习三个小时。我打得不太好。你自己玩吗？我非常希望你能为我演奏一些东西；爸爸的想法是我应该听好听的音乐。梅尔夫人曾多次为我演奏过；这就是我最喜欢梅尔夫人的地方；她有很棒的设施。我永远不会有便利。我没有声音——只有一种微小的声音，就像石笔发出的吱吱声一样。’

Isabel gratified this respectful wish, drew off her gloves and sat down to the piano, while Pansy, standing beside her, watched her white hands move quickly over the keys. When she stopped she kissed the child good-bye, held her close, looked at her long. ‘Be very good,’ she said; ‘give pleasure to your father.’
伊莎贝尔满足了这个恭敬的愿望，脱下手套，坐在钢琴前，潘西站在她旁边，看着她白皙的双手在琴键上快速移动。当她停下来时，她吻别了孩子，紧紧地抱住她，久久地看着她。 “表现得很好，”她说。 “让你的父亲高兴。”

‘I think that’s what I live for,’ Pansy answered. ‘He has not much pleasure; he’s rather a sad man.’
“我想这就是我活着的目的，”潘西回答道。 ‘他没有多少快乐；他是一个相当悲伤的人。

Isabel listened to this assertion with an interest which she felt it almost a torment to be obliged to conceal. It was her pride that obliged her, and a certain sense of decency; there were still other things in her head which she felt a strong impulse, instantly checked, to say to Pansy about her father; there were things it would have given her pleasure to hear the child, to make the child, say. But she no sooner became conscious of these things than her imagination was hushed with horror at the idea of taking advantage of the little girl—it was of this she would have accused herself—and of exhaling into that air where he might still have a subtle sense for it any breath of her charmed state. She had come—she had come; but she had stayed only an hour. She rose quickly from the music-stool; even then, however, she lingered a moment, still holding her small companion, drawing the child’s sweet slimness closer and looking down at her almost in envy. She was obliged to confess it to herself—she would have taken a passionate pleasure in talking of Gilbert Osmond to this innocent, diminutive creature who was so near him. But she said no other word; she only kissed Pansy once again. They went together through the vestibule, to the door that opened on the court; and there her young hostess stopped, looking rather wistfully beyond. ‘I may go no further. I’ve promised papa not to pass this door.’
伊莎贝尔饶有兴趣地听着这个说法，她觉得不得不隐瞒这几乎是一种折磨。正是她的骄傲和一定的正派感使她不得不这样做。她脑子里还有其他一些事情，她感到有一种强烈的冲动想对潘西说起她的父亲，但她立即克制住了这些事情。有些事情她会很高兴听到孩子说，让孩子说出来。但她一意识到这些事情，一想到要利用这个小女孩，她就会责备自己，并在空气中呼气，而他可能仍然对她有一种微妙的感觉，她的想象力就被恐惧所淹没。感受她迷人状态下的任何气息。她来了——她来了；但她只待了一个小时。她迅速从音乐凳上站起来。然而，即便如此，她还是逗留了一会儿，仍然抱着她的小伙伴，把孩子甜美苗条的身材拉得更近，几乎带着嫉妒地低头看着她。她不得不向自己承认这一点——如果能和这个距离他如此之近的无辜小人物谈论吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德，她会感到非常高兴。但她没有再说什么；她只再一次亲吻了Pansy。他们一起穿过前厅，来到通往庭院的门前。年轻的女主人停了下来，目光若有所思地望着远处。 ‘我可能不会再继续了。我已经答应爸爸不要经过这扇门。

‘You’re right to obey him; he’ll never ask you anything unreasonable.’
‘你服从他是对的；他永远不会问你任何无理的事情。

‘I shall always obey him. But when will you come again?’
‘我将永远服从他。但你什么时候再来？

‘Not for a long time, I’m afraid.’
“恐怕不会很长时间了。”

‘As soon as you can, I hope. I’m only a little girl,’ said Pansy, ‘but I shall always expect you.’ And the small figure stood in the high, dark doorway, watching Isabel cross the clear, grey court and disappear into the brightness beyond the big portone, which gave a wider dazzle as it opened.
“我希望尽快。”我只是个小女孩，”潘西说，“但我永远期待着你。”那个小小的身影站在高高、黑暗的门口，看着伊莎贝尔穿过清澈、灰色的庭院，消失在大门外的明亮之中。 ，当它打开时，它发出了更广阔的眩光。

Chapter 31
第31章

Isabel came back to Florence, but only after several months; an interval sufficiently replete with incident. It is not, however, during this interval that we are closely concerned with her; our attention is engaged again on a certain day in the late spring-time, shortly after her return to Palazzo Crescentini and a year from the date of the incidents just narrated. She was alone on this occasion, in one of the smaller of the numerous rooms devoted by Mrs. Touchett to social uses, and there was that in her expression and attitude which would have suggested that she was expecting a visitor. The tall window was open, and though its green shutters were partly drawn the bright air of the garden had come in through a broad interstice and filled the room with warmth and perfume. Our young woman stood near it for some time, her hands clasped behind her; she gazed abroad with the vagueness of unrest. Too troubled for attention she moved in a vain circle. Yet it could not be in her thought to catch a glimpse of her visitor before he should pass into the house, since the entrance to the palace was not through the garden, in which stillness and privacy always reigned. She wished rather to forestall his arrival by a process of conjecture, and to judge by the expression of her face this attempt gave her plenty to do. Grave she found herself, and positively more weighted, as by the experience of the lapse of the year she had spent in seeing the world. She had ranged, she would have said, through space and surveyed much of mankind, and was therefore now, in her own eyes, a very different person from the frivolous young woman from Albany who had begun to take the measure of Europe on the lawn at Gardencourt a couple of years before. She flattered herself she had harvested wisdom and learned a great deal more of life than this light-minded creature had even suspected. If her thoughts just now had inclined themselves to retrospect, instead of fluttering their wings nervously about the present, they would have evoked a multitude of interesting pictures. These pictures would have been both landscapes and figure-pieces; the latter, however, would have been the more numerous. With several of the images that might have been projected on such a field we are already acquainted. There would be for instance the conciliatory Lily, our heroine’s sister and Edmund Ludlow’s wife, who had come out from New York to spend five months with her relative. She had left her husband behind her, but had brought her children, to whom Isabel now played with equal munificence and tenderness the part of maiden-aunt. Mr. Ludlow, toward the last, had been able to snatch a few weeks from his forensic triumphs and, crossing the ocean with extreme rapidity, had spent a month with the two ladies in Paris before taking his wife home. The little Ludlows had not yet, even from the American point of view, reached the proper tourist-age; so that while her sister was with her Isabel had confined her movements to a narrow circle. Lily and the babies had joined her in Switzerland in the month of July, and they had spent a summer of fine weather in an Alpine valley where the flowers were thick in the meadows and the shade of great chestnuts made a resting place for such upward wanderings as might be undertaken by ladies and children on warm afternoons. They had afterwards reached the French capital, which was worshipped, and with costly ceremonies, by Lily, but thought of as noisily vacant by Isabel, who in these days made use of her memory of Rome as she might have done, in a hot and crowded room, of a phial of something pungent hidden in her handkerchief.
伊莎贝尔回到佛罗伦萨，但只过了几个月。一段充满事件的间隔。然而，我们并不是在这段时间里密切关注她的。我们的注意力再次集中在春末的某一天，即她返回克雷森蒂尼宫后不久，距刚刚叙述的事件发生一年后。这次，她独自一人呆在塔奇特夫人专门用于社交用途的众多房间中的一间较小的房间里，从她的表情和态度中可以看出她正在等待一位访客。高大的窗户开着，虽然绿色的百叶窗半开着，但花园里明亮的空气却从宽阔的缝隙中吹了进来，让房间充满了温暖和芬芳。我们的年轻女子在它旁边站了一会儿，双手交叉在身后。她以一种模糊的不安的目光望着远方。她太烦恼了，无法引起别人的注意，她徒劳地兜着圈子。然而，她不可能在客人走进房子之前瞥见他一眼，因为宫殿的入口不是穿过花园，而花园里总是一片寂静和私密。她宁愿通过猜测来阻止他的到来，从她脸上的表情判断，这次尝试让她有很多事情要做。她发现自己很严肃，而且根据她这一年来见识世界的经历，她的心情更加沉重。她会说，她曾穿越太空，调查过大部分人类，因此，在她自己看来，她现在与那个来自奥尔巴尼的轻浮的年轻女子截然不同，后者开始在草坪上测量欧洲几年前在花园庭院。 她自以为自己收获了智慧，学到了比这个轻率生物想象的更多的人生知识。如果她刚才的思绪倾向于回顾，而不是紧张地扇动翅膀思考现在，它们会唤起许多有趣的画面。这些画既可以是风景画，也可以是人物画。然而，后者的数量会更多。我们已经熟悉了可能投射在这样一个场上的一些图像。例如，我们女主人公的妹妹、埃德蒙·勒德洛的妻子，性格温和的莉莉，从纽约来到她的亲戚家里待了五个月。她把她的丈夫抛在了身后，但带着她的孩子们，伊莎贝尔现在对他们同样慷慨而温柔地扮演着未婚姑妈的角色。拉德洛先生在法医取得的胜利中抓住了最后的几周时间，以极快的速度横渡大洋，在巴黎与两位女士待了一个月，然后才带妻子回家。即使从美国人的角度来看，小勒德洛一家也还没有达到适当的旅游年龄。因此，当她姐姐和她在一起时，伊莎贝尔就把她的动作限制在一个狭窄的范围内。七月份，莉莉和孩子们来到瑞士与她会合，他们在阿尔卑斯山谷里度过了一个天气晴朗的夏天，那里的草地上鲜花盛开，大栗子的树荫为这种向上的漫游提供了休息的地方。正如妇女和儿童在温暖的下午可能会做的那样。 后来他们到达了法国首都，莉莉举行了昂贵的仪式，对这座城市进行了崇拜，但伊莎贝尔却认为那里空无一人，在这些日子里，伊莎贝尔利用了她对罗马的记忆，正如她本可以做的那样，以一种热烈而热烈的方式利用了她对罗马的记忆。拥挤的房间里，她的手帕里藏着一小瓶刺鼻的东西。

Mrs. Ludlow sacrificed, as I say, to Paris, yet had doubts and wonderments not allayed at that altar; and after her husband had joined her found further chagrin in his failure to throw himself into these speculations. They all had Isabel for subject; but Edmund Ludlow, as he had always done before, declined to be surprised, or distressed, or mystified, or elated, at anything his sister-in-law might have done or have failed to do. Mrs. Ludlow’s mental motions were sufficiently various. At one moment she thought it would be so natural for that young woman to come home and take a house in New York—the Rossiters’, for instance, which had an elegant conservatory and was just round the corner from her own; at another she couldn’t conceal her surprise at the girl’s not marrying some member of one of the great aristocracies. On the whole, as I have said, she had fallen from high communion with the probabilities. She had taken more satisfaction in Isabel’s accession of fortune than if the money had been left to herself; it had seemed to her to offer just the proper setting for her sister’s slightly meagre, but scarce the less eminent figure. Isabel had developed less, however, than Lily had thought likely—development, to Lily’s understanding, being somehow mysteriously connected with morning calls and evening-parties. Intellectually, doubtless, she had made immense strides; but she appeared to have achieved few of those social conquests of which Mrs. Ludlow had expected to admire the trophies. Lily’s conception of such achievements was extremely vague; but this was exactly what she had expected of Isabel-to give it form and body. Isabel could have done as well as she had done in New York; and Mrs. Ludlow appealed to her husband to know whether there was any privilege she enjoyed in Europe which the society of that city might not offer her. We know ourselves that Isabel had made conquests—whether inferior or not to those she might have effected in her native land it would be a delicate matter to decide; and it is not altogether with a feeling of complacency that I again mention that she had not rendered these honourable victories public. She had not told her sister the history of Lord Warburton, nor had she given her a hint of Mr. Osmond’s state of mind; and she had had no better reason for her silence than that she didn’t wish to speak. It was more romantic to say nothing, and, drinking deep, in secret, of romance, she was as little disposed to ask poor Lily’s advice as she would have been to close that rare volume forever. But Lily knew nothing of these discriminations, and could only pronounce her sister’s career a strange anti-climax—an impression confirmed by the fact that Isabel’s silence about Mr. Osmond, for instance, was in direct proportion to the frequency with which he occupied her thoughts. As this happened very often it sometimes appeared to Mrs. Ludlow that she had lost her courage. So uncanny a result of so exhilarating an incident as inheriting a fortune was of course perplexing to the cheerful Lily; it added to her general sense that Isabel was not at all like other people.
正如我所说，勒德洛夫人为帕里斯做出了牺牲，但在祭坛上她的疑虑和惊奇并没有得到缓解。当她丈夫加入后，她对他未能投入这些猜测感到更加懊恼。他们都以伊莎贝尔为主题；但埃德蒙·勒德洛一如往常，对于他的嫂子可能做了或没有做的任何事情，他都拒绝感到惊讶、苦恼、困惑或高兴。勒德洛夫人的心理活动十分多样。有一瞬间，她觉得这位年轻女子回家并在纽约买一栋房子是很自然的事——比如罗西特夫妇的房子，那里有一个优雅的温室，就在她自己的房子的拐角处；她的房子就在她家附近。另一次，她无法掩饰自己对这个女孩没有嫁给某个大贵族成员的惊讶。总的来说，正如我所说，她已经从与可能性的高度交流中堕落了。伊莎贝尔获得财富比把钱留给自己更令她满意。在她看来，这似乎为她姐姐略显瘦弱但又不那么出众的身材提供了合适的环境。然而，伊莎贝尔的发展程度比莉莉想象的要少——根据莉莉的理解，发展与晨间电话和晚会有着某种神秘的联系。毫无疑问，她在智力上已经取得了巨大的进步。但她似乎并没有取得勒德洛夫人期望获得的那些社会成就。对于这样的成就，莉莉的概念是极其模糊的。但这正是她对伊莎贝尔的期望——赋予它形式和身体。伊莎贝尔本可以做得和她在纽约一样好。和夫人。 拉德洛恳求她的丈夫知道她在欧洲是否享有那个城市的社会可能无法向她提供的任何特权。我们知道伊莎贝尔所进行的征服是否逊色于她在祖国的土地上所进行的征服，这将是一个微妙的问题。我再次提到她没有将这些光荣的胜利公之于众，这并不完全是一种自满的感觉。她没有告诉姐姐沃伯顿勋爵的历史，也没有向她暗示奥斯蒙德先生的心态；她沉默的唯一理由就是她不想说话。什么都不说更浪漫，而且，在暗自沉醉于浪漫的同时，她不愿意征求可怜的莉莉的建议，就像她宁愿永远合上那本罕见的书一样。但莉莉对这些歧视一无所知，只能说她姐姐的事业是一种奇怪的反高潮——这一印象得到了以下事实的证实：伊莎贝尔对奥斯蒙德先生的沉默与他占用她的频率成正比。想法。由于这种情况经常发生，勒德洛夫人有时觉得自己失去了勇气。继承一笔财产这样令人兴奋的事件的结果如此离奇，这当然让开朗的莉莉感到困惑；但是，这增强了她的总体感觉：伊莎贝尔与其他人完全不同。

Our young lady’s courage, however, might have been taken as reaching its height after her relations had gone home. She could imagine braver things than spending the winter in Paris—Paris had sides by which it so resembled New York, Paris was like smart, neat prose—and her close correspondence with Madame Merle did much to stimulate such flights. She had never had a keener sense of freedom, of the absolute boldness and wantonness of liberty, than when she turned away from the platform at the Euston Station on one of the last days of November, after the departure of the train that was to convey poor Lily, her husband and her children to their ship at Liverpool. It had been good for her to regale; she was very conscious of that; she was very observant, as we know, of what was good for her, and her effort was constantly to find something that was good enough. To profit by the present advantage till the latest moment she had made the journey from Paris with the unenvied travellers. She would have accompanied them to Liverpool as well, only Edmund Ludlow had asked her, as a favour, not to do so; it made Lily so fidgety and she asked such impossible questions. Isabel watched the train move away; she kissed her hand to the elder of her small nephews, a demonstrative child who leaned dangerously far out of the window of the carriage and made separation an occasion of violent hilarity, and then she walked back into the foggy London street. The world lay before her—she could do whatever she chose. There was a deep thrill in it all, but for the present her choice was tolerably discreet; she chose simply to walk back from Euston Square to her hotel. The early dusk of a November afternoon had already closed in; the street-lamps, in the thick, brown air, looked weak and red; our heroine was unattended and Euston Square was a long way from Piccadilly. But Isabel performed the journey with a positive enjoyment of its dangers and lost her way almost on purpose, in order to get more sensations, so that she was disappointed when an obliging policeman easily set her right again. She was so fond of the spectacle of human life that she enjoyed even the aspect of gathering dusk in the London streets—the moving crowds, the hurrying cabs, the lighted shops, the flaring stalls, the dark, shining dampness of everything. That evening, at her hotel, she wrote to Madame Merle that she should start in a day or two for Rome. She made her way down to Rome without touching at Florence—having gone first to Venice and then proceeded southward by Ancona. She accomplished this journey without other assistance than that of her servant, for her natural protectors were not now on the ground. Ralph Touchett was spending the winter at Corfu, and Miss Stackpole, in the September previous, had been recalled to America by a telegram from the Interviewer. This journal offered its brilliant correspondent a fresher field for her genius than the mouldering cities of Europe, and Henrietta was cheered on her way by a promise from Mr. Bantling that he would soon come over to see her. Isabel wrote to Mrs. Touchett to apologize for not presenting herself just yet in Florence, and her aunt replied characteristically enough. Apologies, Mrs. Touchett intimated, were of no more use to her than bubbles, and she herself never dealt in such articles. One either did the thing or one didn’t, and what one ‘would’ have done belonged to the sphere of the irrelevant, like the idea of a future life or of the origin of things. Her letter was frank, but (a rare case with Mrs. Touchett) not so frank as it pretended. She easily forgave her niece for not stopping at Florence, because she took it for a sign that Gilbert Osmond was less in question there than formerly. She watched of course to see if he would now find a pretext for going to Rome, and derived some comfort from learning that he had not been guilty of an absence.
然而，我们这位年轻女士的勇气可能会在她的亲戚回家后达到顶峰。她可以想象比在巴黎过冬更勇敢的事情——巴黎有与纽约如此相似的一面，巴黎就像聪明、简洁的散文——而她与梅尔夫人的密切通信极大地刺激了这种飞行。十一月的最后一天，当要运送的火车出发后，她转身离开尤斯顿车站的月台时，她从未有过如此强烈的自由感，自由的绝对大胆和肆意。可怜的莉莉、她的丈夫和孩子们回到了他们在利物浦的船上。招待她对她来说是件好事。她非常清楚这一点；正如我们所知，她非常善于观察对她有利的事物，并且她不断努力寻找足够好的东西。为了利用目前的优势，直到最后一刻，她才和那些不被羡慕的旅行者一起从巴黎出发。她也会陪他们去利物浦，只是埃德蒙·勒德洛请求她不要这样做；这让莉莉很烦躁，她问了一些不可能的问题。伊莎贝尔看着火车开走。她吻了吻她小侄子中的长辈的手，这是一个外向的孩子，他危险地远远地探出马车窗外，使分离成为暴力欢闹的机会，然后她走回雾蒙蒙的伦敦街道。世界就在她面前——她可以做任何她选择的事。这一切都让人感到深深的兴奋，但目前她的选择还是相当谨慎的。她选择简单地从尤斯顿广场步行回到酒店。 十一月的一个下午，黄昏已经来临。街灯在浓浓的棕色空气中显得微弱而红色。我们的女主角无人看管，而且尤斯顿广场距离皮卡迪利很远。但伊莎贝尔在旅途中积极享受其中的危险，为了获得更多的轰动，她几乎是故意迷路的，所以当一个乐于助人的警察轻易地把她扶正时，她感到很失望。她非常喜欢人类生活的景象，甚至喜欢伦敦街道上黄昏的景象——流动的人群，匆忙的出租车，灯火通明的商店，灯火通明的摊位，一切都黑暗而闪亮的潮湿。那天晚上，她在旅馆里写信给梅尔夫人，说她应该在一两天内出发前往罗马。她先去了威尼斯，然后经安科纳向南行进，没有到达佛罗伦萨，而是一路南下到达罗马。除了她的仆人之外，她没有其他帮助就完成了这次旅程，因为她的天然保护者现在不在地面上。拉尔夫·图切特在科孚岛过冬，斯塔克波尔小姐去年九月因采访者的一封电报被召回美国。这本杂志为其才华横溢的记者提供了比欧洲腐烂的城市更新鲜的天才发挥空间，班特林先生承诺很快就会来看她，亨丽埃塔为此感到高兴。伊莎贝尔写信给图切特夫人，为自己尚未到佛罗伦萨而致歉，她姑妈的回复颇有特色。塔奇特夫人暗示道，道歉对她来说就像泡沫一样毫无用处，而且她本人也从未发表过此类文章。 一个人要么做了某件事，要么没有做，而一个人“会”做的事情属于无关紧要的领域，就像来世或事物起源的想法一样。她的信很坦率，但是（对于图切特夫人来说这是罕见的情况）并不像它假装的那么坦率。她很容易地原谅了侄女没有在佛罗伦萨停留，因为她认为这表明吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德在那里的问题比以前少了。她当然会观察他现在是否会找到去罗马的借口，并从得知他没有缺席而感到安慰。

Isabel, on her side, had not been a fortnight in Rome before she proposed to Madame Merle that they should make a little pilgrimage to the East. Madame Merle remarked that her friend was restless, but she added that she herself had always been consumed with the desire to visit Athens and Constantinople. The two ladies accordingly embarked on this expedition, and spent three months in Greece, in Turkey, in Egypt. Isabel found much to interest her in these countries, though Madame Merle continued to remark that even among the most classic sites, the scenes most calculated to suggest repose and reflexion, a certain incoherence prevailed in her. Isabel travelled rapidly and recklessly; she was like a thirsty person draining cup after cup. Madame Merle meanwhile, as lady-in-waiting to a princess circulating incognita, panted a little in her rear. It was on Isabel’s invitation she had come, and she imparted all due dignity to the girl’s uncountenanced state. She played her part with the tact that might have been expected of her, effacing herself and accepting the position of a companion whose expenses were profusely paid. The situation, however, had no hardships, and people who met this reserved though striking pair on their travels would not have been able to tell you which was patroness and which client. To say that Madame Merle improved on acquaintance states meagrely the impression she made on her friend, who had found her from the first so ample and so easy. At the end of an intimacy of three months Isabel felt she knew her better; her character had revealed itself, and the admirable woman had also at last redeemed her promise of relating her history from her own point of view-a consummation the more desirable as Isabel had already heard it related from the point of view of others. This history was so sad a one (in so far as it concerned the late M. Merle, a positive adventurer, she might say, though originally so plausible, who had taken advantage, years before, of her youth and of an inexperience in which doubtless those who knew her only now would find it difficult to believe); it abounded so in startling and lamentable incidents that her companion wondered a person so eprouvee could have kept so much of her freshness, her interest in life. Into this freshness of Madame Merle’s she obtained a considerable insight; she seemed to see it as professional, as slightly mechanical, carried about in its case like the fiddle of the virtuoso, or blanketed and bridled like the ‘favourite’ of the jockey. She liked her as much as ever, but there was a corner of the curtain that never was lifted; it was as if she had remained after all something of a public performer, condemned to emerge only in character and in costume. She had once said that she came from a distance, that she belonged to the ‘old, old’ world, and Isabel never lost the impression that she was the product of a different moral or social clime from her own, that she had grown up under other stars.
伊莎贝尔则在罗马呆了不到两周，就向梅尔夫人提议他们应该去东方朝圣。梅尔夫人说她的朋友焦躁不安，但她补充说，她自己一直渴望参观雅典和君士坦丁堡。两位女士于是踏上了这次探险之旅，在希腊、土耳其、埃及度过了三个月。伊莎贝尔在这些国家里发现了很多让她感兴趣的地方，尽管梅尔夫人继续说道，即使在最经典的景点、最旨在暗示休息和反思的场景中，她身上也普遍存在着某种语无伦次的情况。伊莎贝尔快速而鲁莽地行进。她就像一个口渴的人，一杯接一杯地喝下去。与此同时，梅尔夫人，作为一位隐姓埋名的公主的侍女，在她的身后喘着气。她是应伊莎贝尔的邀请而来的，她为这个女孩无人问津的状态赋予了所有应有的尊严。她以人们对她的期望的机智扮演了自己的角色，隐瞒了自己，接受了一个花费大笔费用的同伴的位置。不过，情况并没有什么困难，在旅行中遇到这对内向却引人注目的情侣的人不会分出哪个是女主人，哪个是客户。说梅尔夫人在熟识方面有了进步，这并不能说明她给朋友留下的印象，她的朋友从一开始就发现她是如此丰富和容易相处。 三个月的亲密关系结束后，伊莎贝尔觉得自己更加了解自己了。她的性格已经显露出来，这位令人钦佩的女人也终于兑现了她的诺言，从自己的角度讲述了她的历史——这是一个更令人向往的完美，因为伊莎贝尔已经听过从别人的角度讲述了它。这段历史是如此悲伤（就其涉及已故的梅尔先生而言，他是一位积极的冒险家，她可能会说，虽然最初如此合理，但多年前，她利用了自己的年轻和缺乏经验的机会，无疑，现在才认识她的人都难以相信）；那里充满了如此令人震惊和可悲的事件，以至于她的同伴想知道一个如此自信的人竟然能保持如此多的新鲜感和对生活的兴趣。她对梅尔夫人的这种新鲜感有了深刻的认识。她似乎认为它是专业的，有点机械化，像演奏家的小提琴一样放在箱子里随身携带，或者像骑师的“最爱”一样被包裹和缰绳。她一如既往地喜欢她，只是窗帘的一角始终没有掀开；就好像她毕竟仍然是一个公众表演者，注定只能以角色和服装出现。她曾经说过，她来自远方，她属于“旧的、旧的”世界，伊莎贝尔始终没有忘记她是与自己不同的道德或社会氛围的产物，她已经长大了。其他星星下。

She believed then that at bottom she had a different morality. Of course the morality of civilized persons has always much in common; but our young woman had a sense in her of values gone wrong or, as they said at the shops, marked down. She considered, with the presumption of youth, that a morality differing from her own must be inferior to it; and this conviction was an aid to detecting an occasional flash of cruelty, an occasional lapse from candour, in the conversation of a person who had raised delicate kindness to an art and whose pride was too high for the narrow ways of deception. Her conception of human motives might, in certain lights, have been acquired at the court of some kingdom in decadence, and there were several in her list of which our heroine had not even heard. She had not heard of everything, that was very plain; and there were evidently things in the world of which it was not advantageous to hear. She had once or twice had a positive scare; since it so affected her to have to exclaim, of her friend, ‘Heaven forgive her, she doesn’t understand me!’ Absurd as it may seem this discovery operated as a shock, left her with a vague dismay in which there was even an element of foreboding. The dismay of course subsided, in the light of some sudden proof of Madame Merle’s remarkable intelligence; but it stood for a high-water-mark in the ebb and flow of confidence. Madame Merle had once declared her belief that when a friendship ceases to grow it immediately begins to decline-there being no point of equilibrium between liking more and liking less. A stationary affection, in other words, was impossible-it must move one way or the other. However that might be, the girl had in these days a thousand uses for her sense of the romantic, which was more active than it had ever been. I do not allude to the impulse it received as she gazed at the Pyramids in the course of an excursion from Cairo, or as she stood among the broken columns of the Acropolis and fixed her eyes upon the point designated to her as the Strait of Salamis; deep and memorable as these emotions had remained. She came back by the last of March from Egypt and Greece and made another stay in Rome. A few days after her arrival Gilbert Osmond descended from Florence and remained three weeks, during which the fact of her being with his old friend Madame Merle, in whose house she had gone to lodge, made it virtually inevitable that he should see her every day. When the last of April came she wrote to Mrs. Touchett that she should now rejoice to accept an invitation given long before, and went to pay a visit at Palazzo Crescentini, Madame Merle on this occasion remaining in Rome. She found her aunt alone; her cousin was still at Corfu. Ralph, however, was expected in Florence from day to day, and Isabel, who had not seen him for upwards of a year, was prepared to give him the most affectionate welcome.
那时她相信她本质上有不同的道德观。当然，文明人的道德总是有很多共同点。但我们的年轻女士感觉自己的价值观出了问题，或者正如商店里所说的那样，价值观被打折了。她以年轻的假设认为，与她自己的道德观不同的道德观一定不如她自己的道德观。这种信念有助于在一个人的谈话中发现偶尔闪现的残酷和偶尔失坦的情况，这个人把微妙的善意提升到了一种艺术上，而且他的自尊心太高了，无法接受狭隘的欺骗方式。从某些角度来看，她对人类动机的理解可能是在某个颓废王国的宫廷中获得的，而她的清单中有几个我们的女主人公甚至没有听说过。她并没有听说过一切，那是很简单的；显然，世界上有些事情听是没有好处的。她有一两次确实受到过惊吓。因为她不得不对她的朋友大喊：“上帝宽恕她，她不理解我！”这一发现虽然看起来很荒谬，但却令人震惊，让她感到一种模糊的沮丧，甚至感到有些沮丧。一种不祥的预感。突然出现的一些证据证明了梅尔夫人非凡的智慧，沮丧当然平息了。但这代表了信心潮起潮落的高水位。梅尔夫人曾经宣称，她相信，当友谊不再发展时，它就会立即开始衰退——在喜欢更多和不喜欢之间不存在平衡点。换句话说，一种静止的情感是不可能的——它必须以某种方式移动。 不管怎样，这个女孩现在对浪漫的感觉有一千种用途，而且比以往任何时候都更加活跃。我并不是指当她从开罗出发游览金字塔时，或者当她站在卫城破碎的柱子中间，注视着她指定为萨拉米斯海峡的地方时所受到的冲动。 ;这些情感仍然深刻而难忘。三月底，她从埃及和希腊回来，并在罗马再次停留。她到达几天后，吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德从佛罗伦萨下来，并在那里停留了三个星期，在此期间，她和他的老朋友梅尔夫人在一起，她住在她的家里，这使得他几乎不可避免地每天都会见到她。四月底到来时，她写信给图切特夫人说，她现在应该很高兴接受很久以前发出的邀请，并在这次留在罗马的梅尔夫人前往克雷森蒂尼宫拜访。她发现姨妈独自一人。她的表弟还在科孚岛。然而，拉尔夫每天都在佛罗伦萨，而伊莎贝尔已经一年多没有见到他了，准备给予他最热情的欢迎。

Chapter 32
第32章

It was not of him, nevertheless, that she was thinking while she stood at the window near which we found her a while ago, and it was not of any of the matters I have rapidly sketched. She was not turned to the past, but to the immediate, impending hour. She had reason to expect a scene, and she was not fond of scenes. She was not asking herself what she should say to her visitor; this question had already been answered. What he would say to her-that was the interesting issue. It could be nothing in the least soothing-she had warrant for this, and the conviction doubtless showed in the cloud on her brow. For the rest, however, all clearness reigned in her; she had put away her mourning and she walked in no small shimmering splendour. She only felt older-ever so much, and as if she were ‘worth more’ for it, like some curious piece in an antiquary’s collection. She was not at any rate left indefinitely to her apprehensions, for a servant at last stood before her with a card on his tray. ‘Let the gentleman come in,’ she said, and continued to gaze out of the window after the footman had retired. It was only when she had heard the door close behind the person who presently entered that she looked round.
然而，当她站在我们不久前发现她的窗户附近时，所想的并不是他，也不是我快速勾勒出的任何事情。她没有转向过去，而是转向眼前的、即将到来的时刻。她有理由期待场景，但她不喜欢场景。她并不是在问自己应该对来访者说什么；她只是在问自己。这个问题已经有了答案。他会对她说什么——这是一个有趣的问题。这一点也不能让人安心——她有理由这么做，而她额头的阴云无疑也表明了这一信念。然而，对于其余的事情，她却一清二楚。她已经放下了哀悼，走路时散发出不小的光芒。她只觉得自己老了很多，似乎她因此“更有价值”，就像古董店收藏中的一件奇怪的东西。无论如何，她并没有无限期地处于忧虑之中，因为一个仆人终于站在她面前，托盘上放着一张卡片。 “让先生进来吧，”她说，在男仆退下后，她继续凝视着窗外。直到听到进来的人关门的声音，她才环顾四周。

Caspar Goodwood stood there—stood and received a moment, from head to foot, the bright, dry gaze with which she rather withheld than offered a greeting. Whether his sense of maturity had kept pace with Isabel’s we shall perhaps presently ascertain; let me say meanwhile that to her critical glance he showed nothing of the injury of time. Straight, strong and hard, there was nothing in his appearance that spoke positively either of youth or of age; if he had neither innocence nor weakness, so he had no practical philosophy. His jaw showed the same voluntary cast as in earlier days; but a crisis like the present had in it of course something grim. He had the air of a man who had travelled hard; he said nothing at first, as if he had been out of breath. This gave Isabel time to make a reflexion: ‘Poor fellow, what great things he’s capable of, and what a pity he should waste so dreadfully his splendid force! What a pity too that one can’t satisfy everybody!’ It gave her time to do more-to say at the end of a minute: ‘I can’t tell you how I hoped you wouldn’t come!’
卡斯帕·古德伍德站在那里——站在那里，从头到脚，她都受到了明亮、干巴巴的目光的注视，但她宁愿隐忍，也没有主动打招呼。他的成熟感是否与伊莎贝尔的成熟感保持同步，我们也许很快就能确定。同时我要说的是，在她挑剔的目光中，他没有表现出时间的伤害。他笔直、强壮、坚硬，从他的外表上看不出任何年轻或年老的积极迹象。如果他既没有纯真，也没有软弱，那么他就没有实践哲学。他的下巴和早些天一样，都是自愿打成的石膏。但像现在这样的危机当然也有一些严峻的因素。他有一种历尽千辛万苦的人的气质。起初他什么也没说，好像上气不接下气。这给了伊莎贝尔反思的时间：“可怜的家伙，他能做出多么伟大的事情，可惜他如此可怕地浪费了他的辉煌力量！”可惜不能让所有人都满意！”这让她有时间做更多事情，在一分钟结束时说：“我无法告诉你我多么希望你不要来！”

‘I’ve no doubt of that.’ And he looked about him for a seat. Not only had he come, but he meant to settle.
“我对此毫不怀疑。”他环顾四周寻找座位。他不仅来了，而且还打算定居。

‘You must be very tired,’ said Isabel, seating herself, and generously, as she thought, to give him his opportunity.
“你一定很累了，”伊莎贝尔说着，坐下来，并像她想的那样慷慨地给了他机会。

‘No, I’m not at all tired. Did you ever know me to be tired?’
‘不，我一点也不累。你知道我很累吗？

‘Never; I wish I had! When did you arrive?’
'绝不;我希望我有！你什么时候到达？'

‘Last night, very late; in a kind of snail-train they call the express. These Italian trains go at about the rate of an American funeral.’
‘昨晚，很晚了；乘坐一种他们称之为“快车”的蜗牛列车。这些意大利火车的运行速度与美国葬礼的速度差不多。

‘That’s in keeping—you must have felt as if you were coming to bury me!’ And she forced a smile of encouragement to an easy view of their situation. She had reasoned the matter well out, making it perfectly clear that she broke no faith and falsified no contract; but for all this she was afraid of her visitor. She was ashamed of her fear; but she was devoutly thankful there was nothing else to be ashamed of. He looked at her with his stiff insistence, an insistence in which there was such a want of tact; especially when the dull dark beam in his eye rested on her as a physical weight.
“这是符合的——你一定觉得好像你是来埋葬我的！”她强颜欢笑，轻松地看待他们的处境。她已经把这件事推理得很清楚了，非常清楚地表明她没有背信弃义，也没有伪造合同；但尽管如此，她还是害怕她的访客。她为自己的恐惧感到羞愧；但她非常庆幸，没有什么可羞耻的。他用一种僵硬的坚持看着她，这种坚持太不机智了。尤其是当他眼中暗淡的黑光像身体的重量一样压在她身上时。

‘No, I didn’t feel that; I couldn’t think of you as dead. I wish I could! he candidly declared.
“不，我没有这种感觉；”我无法认为你已经死了。我希望我能够！他坦率地宣称。

‘I thank you immensely.’
“我非常感谢你。”

‘I’d rather think of you as dead than as married to another man.’
“我宁愿认为你已经死了，也不愿认为你嫁给了另一个男人。”

‘That’s very selfish of you!’ she returned with the ardour of a real conviction. ‘If you’re not happy yourself others have yet a right to be.’
“你太自私了！”她带着坚定信念的热情回答道。 “如果你自己不快乐，别人也有权利快乐。”

‘Very likely it’s selfish; but I don’t in the least mind your saying so. I don’t mind anything you can say now—I don’t feel it. The cruellest things you could think of would be mere pin-pricks. After what you’ve done I shall never feel anything—I mean anything but that. That I shall feel all my life.’
“这很可能是自私的；但我一点也不介意你这么说。我不介意你现在说的任何话——我没有感觉。你能想到的最残酷的事情也不过是针刺而已。在你做了这一切之后，我将永远不会有任何感觉——我的意思就是除此之外。我一生都会有这样的感觉。

Mr. Goodwood made these detached assertions with dry deliberateness, in his hard, slow American tone, which flung no atmospheric colour over propositions intrinsically crude. The tone made Isabel angry rather than touched her; but her anger perhaps was fortunate, inasmuch as it gave her a further reason for controlling herself It was under the pressure of this control that she became, after a little, irrelevant. ‘When did you leave New York?’
古德伍德先生用他冷酷、缓慢的美国语气，以冷酷、深思熟虑的语气做出了这些超然的断言，对本质上粗俗的主张没有任何大气色彩。这种语气不但没有让伊莎贝尔感动，反而让她生气。但她的愤怒也许是幸运的，因为这给了她更多的理由来控制自己。正是在这种控制的压力下，她渐渐变得无关紧要。 “你什么时候离开纽约的？”

He threw up his head as if calculating. ‘Seventeen days ago.’
他抬起头，仿佛在盘算着。 “十七天前。”

‘You must have travelled fast in spite of your slow trains.’
“尽管火车很慢，但你一定走得很快。”

‘I came as fast as I could. I’d have come five days ago if I had been able.’
“我以最快的速度赶来了。如果可以的话，我五天前就来了。

‘It wouldn’t have made any difference, Mr. Goodwood,’ she coldly smiled.
“古德伍德先生，这没什么区别，”她冷冷地笑道。

‘Not to you—no. But to me.’
“对你来说不是——不。但对我来说。

‘You gain nothing that I see.’
“我看你一无所获。”

‘That’s for me to judge!’
“这由我来判断！”

‘Of course. To me it seems that you only torment yourself.’ And then, to change the subject, she asked him if he had seen Henrietta Stackpole. He looked as if he had not come from Boston to Florence to talk of Henrietta Stackpole; but he answered, distinctly enough, that this young lady had been with him just before he left America. ‘She came to see you?’ Isabel then demanded.
'当然。在我看来，你只是在折磨自己。”然后，为了改变话题，她问他是否见过亨丽埃塔·斯塔克波尔。他看起来好像不是从波士顿来到佛罗伦萨来谈论亨丽埃塔·斯塔克波尔的。但他明确地回答说，这位年轻女士在他离开美国之前一直和他在一起。 “她来看你了？”伊莎贝尔问道。

‘Yes, she was in Boston, and she called at my office. It was the day I had got your letter.’
“是的，她在波士顿，她打电话到我的办公室。那天我收到了你的信。

‘Did you tell her?’ Isabel asked with a certain anxiety.
“你告诉她了吗？”伊莎贝尔有些焦虑地问道。

‘Oh no,’ said Caspar Goodwood simply; ‘I didn’t want to do that.
“哦，不，”卡斯帕·古德伍德简单地说。 ‘我不想那样做。

She’ll hear it quick enough; she hears everything.’
她很快就会听到的；她听到了一切。

‘I shall write to her, and then she’ll write to me and scold me,’ Isabel declared, trying to smile again.
“我会写信给她，然后她也会写信给我并责骂我，”伊莎贝尔宣称，试图再次微笑。

Caspar, however, remained sternly grave. ‘I guess she’ll come right out,’ he said.
然而，卡斯帕仍然一脸严肃。 “我想她马上就会出来，”他说。

‘On purpose to scold me?’
“故意骂我吗？”

‘I don’t know. She seemed to think she had not seen Europe thoroughly.’
'我不知道。她似乎认为自己还没有彻底看过欧洲。

‘I’m glad you tell me that,’ Isabel said. ‘I must prepare for her.’
“我很高兴你告诉我这些，”伊莎贝尔说。 “我必须为她做好准备。”

Mr. Goodwood fixed his eyes for a moment on the floor; then at last, raising them, ‘Does she know Mr. Osmond?’ he enquired.
古德伍德先生的眼睛盯着地板看了一会儿。最后，他抬起他们，问道：“她认识奥斯蒙德先生吗？”

‘A little. And she doesn’t like him. But of course I don’t marry to please Henrietta,’ she added. It would have been better for poor Caspar if she had tried a little more to gratify Miss Stackpole; but he didn’t say so; he only asked, presently, when her marriage would take place. To which she made answer that she didn’t know yet. ‘I can only say it will be soon. I’ve told no one but yourself and one other person-an old friend of Mr. Osmond’s.’
'一点。而且她不喜欢他。但当然，我结婚不是为了取悦亨利埃塔，”她补充道。对于可怜的卡斯帕来说，如果她能多努力一点来满足斯塔克波尔小姐的话，那就更好了。但他没有这么说；他现在只是问她什么时候结婚。她对此做出了她还不知道的回答。 ‘我只能说很快。除了你自己和另外一个人——奥斯蒙德先生的一位老朋友，我没有告诉过任何人。

‘Is it a marriage your friends won’t like?’ he demanded.
“这是你的朋友们不喜欢的婚姻吗？”他问道。

‘I really haven’t an idea. As I say, I don’t marry for my friends.’
‘我实在没有什么主意。正如我所说，我不是为了我的朋友而结婚。

He went on, making no exclamation, no comment, only asking questions, doing it quite without delicacy. ‘Who and what then is Mr. Gilbert Osmond?’
他继续说下去，没有发出任何感叹，没有发表任何评论，只是提出问题，做得很不优雅。 “吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德先生是谁？是什么？”

‘Who and what? Nobody and nothing but a very good and very honourable man. He’s not in business,’ said Isabel. ‘He’s not rich; he’s not known for anything in particular.’
‘谁和什么？除了一个非常好的、非常值得尊敬的人之外，没有人，什么也没有。他不做生意，”伊莎贝尔说。 ‘他并不富有；他并没有什么特别出名的。

She disliked Mr. Goodwood’s questions, but she said to herself that she owed it to him to satisfy him as far as possible. The satisfaction poor Caspar exhibited was, however, small; he sat very upright, gazing at her. ‘Where does he come from? Where does he belong?’
她不喜欢古德伍德先生的问题，但她对自己说，她应该尽可能地让他满意。然而可怜的卡斯帕表现出的满足感却很小。他坐得笔直，凝视着她。 '他从哪里来？他属于哪里？

She had never been so little pleased with the way he said ‘belawng.’
她从来没有对他说“belawng”的方式如此不高兴。

‘He comes from nowhere. He has spent most of his life in Italy.’
‘他不知从何而来。他一生的大部分时间都在意大利度过。

‘You said in your letter he was American. Hasn’t he a native place?’
“你在信中说他是美国人。他没有家乡吗？

‘Yes, but he has forgotten it. He left it as a small boy.’
“是的，但他已经忘记了。他小时候就留下了它。

‘Has he never gone back?’
“他就没有回去过吗？”

‘Why should he go back?’ Isabel asked, flushing all defensively. ‘He has no profession.’
“他为什么要回去？”伊莎贝尔问，她的脸涨得通红。 “他没有职业。”

‘He might have gone back for his pleasure. Doesn’t he like the United States?’
“他可能是为了自己的快乐而回去的。”他不喜欢美国吗？

‘He doesn’t know them. Then he’s very quiet and very simple-he contents himself with Italy.’
‘他不认识他们。然后他就非常安静、非常单纯——他满足于意大利。”

‘With Italy and with you,’ said Mr. Goodwood with gloomy plainness and no appearance of trying to make an epigram. ‘What has he ever done?’ he added abruptly.
“与意大利同在，也与你们同在。”古德伍德先生语气阴郁而朴素，丝毫没有想写警句的意思。 “他做过什么？”他突然补充道。

‘That I should marry him? Nothing at all,’ Isabel replied while her patience helped itself by turning a little to hardness. ‘If he had done great things would you forgive me any better? Give me up, Mr. Goodwood; I’m marrying a perfect nonentity. Don’t try to take an interest in him. You can’t.’
‘我应该嫁给他吗？一点也没有。”伊莎贝尔回答道，同时她的耐心也变得有点强硬。 “如果他做了伟大的事情，你会更好地原谅我吗？”放弃我吧，古德伍德先生；我要嫁给一个完美的无名之辈。不要试图对他感兴趣。你不能。

‘I can’t appreciate him; that’s what you mean. And you don’t mean in the least that he’s a perfect nonentity. You think he’s grand, you think he’s great, though no one else thinks so.’
“我无法欣赏他；这就是你的意思。你绝不是说他是一个完美的无足轻重的人。你认为他很伟大，你认为他很棒，尽管没有人这么认为。

Isabel’s colour deepened; she felt this really acute of her companion, and it was certainly a proof of the aid that passion might render perceptions she had never taken for fine. ‘Why do you always come back to what others think? I can’t discuss Mr. Osmond with you.’
伊莎贝尔的脸色加深了。她对她的同伴感到非常敏锐，这无疑证明了激情可能会带来帮助，她从未认为这是好的。 ‘为什么你总是要考虑别人的想法？我不能和你讨论奥斯蒙德先生。

‘Of course not,’ said Caspar reasonably. And he sat there with his air of stiff helplessness, as if not only this were true, but there were nothing else that they might discuss.
“当然不是，”卡斯帕理直气壮地说。他坐在那儿，神情僵硬而无助，仿佛不仅这件事是真的，而且他们也没有什么可以讨论的了。

‘You see how little you gain,’ she accordingly broke out-”how little comfort or satisfaction I can give you.’
“你看，你得到的东西是多么少，”她相应地说道，“我能给你的安慰或满足是多么少。”

‘I didn’t expect you to give me much.’
“我没想到你会给我很多。”

‘I don’t understand then why you came.’
“那我不明白你为什么来。”

‘I came because I wanted to see you once more even just as you are.’
“我来是因为我想再次见到你，即使是现在的你。”

‘I appreciate that; but if you had waited a while, sooner or later we should have been sure to meet, and our meeting would have been pleasanter for each of us than this.’
'我很感激;但如果你等一会儿，我们迟早一定会见面的，而且我们的见面对我们每个人来说都会比这更愉快。

‘Waited till after you’re married? That’s just what I didn’t want to do.
‘等到结婚之后？这正是我不想做的。

You’ll be different then.’
那时你就会有所不同。

‘Not very. I shall still be a great friend of yours. You’ll see.’
'不是特别的。我仍然会是你的好朋友。你会看到的。'

‘That will make it all the worse,’ said Mr. Goodwood grimly.
“这会让事情变得更糟，”古德伍德先生严肃地说。

‘Ah, you’re unaccommodating! I can’t promise to dislike you in order to help you to resign yourself.’
「啊啊，你不客气啊！我不能保证不喜欢你来帮助你辞职。

‘I shouldn’t care if you did!’
“我不应该在意你是否这样做！”

Isabel got up with a movement of repressed impatience and walked to the window, where she remained a moment looking out. When she turned round her visitor was still motionless in his place. She came toward him again and stopped, resting her hand on the back of the chair she had just quitted. ‘Do you mean you came simply to look at me? That’s better for you perhaps than for me.’
伊莎贝尔压抑着不耐烦的情绪站了起来，走到窗前，在那里凝视了一会儿。当她转过身来时，她的客人仍然一动不动地坐在原地。她再次朝他走来，停了下来，把手放在刚刚离开的椅背上。 ‘你的意思是你只是来看我的？这对你来说也许比对我更好。

‘I wished to hear the sound of your voice,’ he said.
“我想听听你的声音，”他说。

‘You’ve heard it, and you see it says nothing very sweet.’
“你已经听过它了，而且你也看到它并没有说什么非常甜蜜的内容。”

‘It gives me pleasure, all the same.’ And with this he got up.
“不管怎样，这让我很高兴。”说完他站了起来。

She had felt pain and displeasure on receiving early that day the news he was in Florence and by her leave would come within an hour to see her. She had been vexed and distressed, though she had sent back word by his messenger that he might come when he would. She had not been better pleased when she saw him; his being there at all was so full of heavy implications. It implied things she could never assent to-rights, reproaches, remonstrance, rebuke, the expectation of making her change her purpose. These things, however, if implied, had not been expressed; and now our young lady, strangely enough, began to resent her visitor’s remarkable self-control. There was a dumb misery about him that irritated her; there was a manly staying of his hand that made her heart beat faster. She felt her agitation rising, and she said to herself that she was angry in the way a woman is angry when she has been in the wrong. She was not in the wrong; she had fortunately not that bitterness to swallow; but, all the same, she wished he would denounce her a little. She had wished his visit would be short; it had no purpose, no propriety; yet now that he seemed to be turning away she felt a sudden horror of his leaving her without uttering a word that would give her an opportunity to defend herself more than she had done in writing to him a month before, in a few carefully chosen words, to announce her engagement. If she were not in the wrong, however, why should she desire to defend herself? It was an excess of generosity on Isabel’s part to desire that Mr. Goodwood should be angry. And if he had not meanwhile held himself hard it might have made him so to hear the tone in which she suddenly exclaimed, as if she were accusing him of having accused her:
那天早些时候，她收到他在佛罗伦萨的消息，并且按照她的要求，将在一个小时内来看望她，这让她感到痛苦和不满。尽管她已经通过他的使者回话说他随时都会来，但她还是感到烦恼和痛苦。当她看到他时，她再高兴不过了。他的存在充满了沉重的含义。它暗示着她永远无法同意的事情——权利、责备、抗议、斥责、期望让她改变目标。然而，这些事情即使是暗示的，也没有被表达出来。现在，奇怪的是，我们的年轻女士开始憎恨她的访客非凡的自制力。他身上有一种愚蠢的痛苦，这让她很恼火。他的手充满男子气概，让她心跳加速。她感到自己越来越焦躁，她对自己说，她的愤怒就像一个女人做错事时的愤怒一样。她并没有错；她没有错。幸运的是，她没有那种难以忍受的痛苦。但尽管如此，她还是希望他能稍微谴责一下她。她本来希望他的来访时间能够很短。它没有目的，没有正当性；然而现在他似乎要转身离开，她突然感到一阵恐惧，因为他没有说一句话就离开了她，这让她有机会为自己辩护，这比一个月前写给他的信中精心挑选的几句话要多。 ，宣布订婚。然而，如果她没有错，她为什么要为自己辩护呢？伊莎贝尔希望古德伍德先生生气，这实在是太慷慨了。如果他当时没有保持坚强，他可能会听到她突然惊呼的语气，仿佛她在指责他指责她：

‘I’ve not deceived you! I was perfectly free!’
‘我没有骗你！我完全自由了！”

‘Yes, I know that,’ said Caspar.
“是的，我知道，”卡斯帕说。

‘I gave you full warning that I’d do as I chose.’
“我已经充分警告过你，我会按照我的选择去做。”

‘You said you’d probably never marry, and you said it with such a manner that I pretty well believed it.’
“你说你可能永远不会结婚，而且你说的方式让我非常相信。”

She considered this an instant. ‘No one can be more surprised than myself at my present intention.’
她认为这只是一瞬间。 “没有人比我自己更惊讶我目前的意图。”

‘You told me that if I heard you were engaged I was not to believe it,’ Caspar went on. ‘I heard it twenty days ago from yourself, but I remembered what you had said. I thought there might be some mistake, and that’s partly why I came.’
“你告诉我，如果我听说你订婚了，我不会相信，”卡斯帕继续说道。 ‘我是二十天前从你口中听到的，但我记得你说过的话。我认为可能存在一些错误，这就是我来的部分原因。

‘If you wish me to repeat it by word of mouth, that’s soon done. There’s no mistake whatever.’
“如果你希望我口头重复一遍，那很快就完成了。没有任何错误。

‘I saw that as soon as I came into the room.’
“我一进房间就看到了。”

‘What good would it do you that I shouldn’t marry?’ she asked with a certain fierceness.
“我不结婚对你有什么好处？”她语气有些激烈地问道。

‘I should like it better than this.’
“我应该比这个更喜欢它。”

‘You’re very selfish, as I said before.’
“正如我之前所说，你很自私。”

‘I know that. I’m selfish as iron.’
'我知道。我自私如铁。

‘Even iron sometimes melts! If you’ll be reasonable I’ll see you again.’
“即使是铁有时也会熔化！如果你能讲道理，我会再见到你。

‘Don’t you call me reasonable now?’
“你现在不觉得我讲道理了吗？”

‘I don’t know what to say to you,’ she answered with sudden humility.
“我不知道该对你说什么，”她突然谦虚地回答。

‘I shan’t trouble you for a long time,’ the young man went on. He made a step towards the door, but he stopped. ‘Another reason why I came was that I wanted to hear what you would say in explanation of your having changed your mind.’
“我很长时间不会打扰你了，”年轻人继续说道。他朝门口迈出了一步，但又停了下来。 “我来的另一个原因是我想听听你会如何解释你改变了主意。”

Her humbleness as suddenly deserted her. ‘In explanation? Do you think I’m bound to explain?’
她的谦卑突然就抛弃了她。 ‘解释一下？你认为我有必要解释吗？

He gave her one of his long dumb looks. ‘You were very positive. I did believe it.’
他长长地瞪了她一眼。 ‘你非常积极。我确实相信了。

‘So did I. Do you think I could explain if I would?’
“我也是。如果我愿意的话，你认为我能解释一下吗？”

‘No, I suppose not. Well,’ he added, ‘I’ve done what I wished. I’ve seen you.’
‘不，我想不是。好吧，”他补充道，“我已经做了我想做的事。我见过你。

‘How little you make of these terrible journeys,’ she felt the poverty of her presently replying.
“你对这些可怕的旅程是多么无知啊，”她觉得自己现在的回答很贫乏。

‘If you’re afraid I’m knocked up-in any such way as that-you may be at your ease about it.’ He turned away, this time in earnest, and no handshake, no sign of parting, was exchanged between them. At the door he stopped with his hand on the knob. ‘I shall leave Florence to-morrow,’ he said without a quaver.
“如果你担心我被撞倒了——无论是哪种方式——你都可以放心。”他转过身去，这次是认真的，双方没有握手，也没有告别的迹象。他们。到了门口，他停了下来，手放在门把手上。 “我明天就要离开佛罗伦萨，”他毫不颤抖地说。

‘I’m delighted to hear it!’ she answered passionately. Five minutes after he had gone out she burst into tears.
“我很高兴听到这个消息！”她热情地回答。他出去五分钟后，她泪流满面。

Chapter 33
第33章

Her fit of weeping, however, was soon smothered, and the signs of it had vanished when, an hour later, she broke the news to her aunt. I use this expression because she had been sure Mrs. Touchett would not be pleased; Isabel had only waited to tell her till she had seen Mr.
然而，她的哭泣很快就被抑制住了，当一个小时后她把这个消息告诉姨妈时，哭声也消失了。我使用这个表达方式是因为她确信图切特夫人不会高兴；伊莎贝尔一直等到见到先生才告诉她。

Goodwood. She had an odd impression that it would not be honourable to make the fact public before she should have heard what Mr. Goodwood would say about it. He had said rather less than she expected, and she now had a somewhat angry sense of having lost time. But she would lose no more; she waited till Mrs. Touchett came into the drawing-room before the mid-day breakfast, and then she began. ‘Aunt Lydia, I’ve something to tell you.’
好木。她有一种奇怪的印象，在她应该听到古德伍德先生对此有何评论之前，将事实公之于众是不光彩的。他说的比她想象的要少，她现在有一种浪费时间的愤怒感。但她不会再失去了；她一直等到图切特太太在吃午饭前走进客厅，才开始。 “莉迪亚阿姨，我有件事要告诉你。”

Mrs. Touchett gave a little jump and looked at her almost fiercely: ‘You needn’t tell me; I know what it is.’
塔切特夫人吓了一跳，几乎是凶狠地看着她：“你不用告诉我，我已经知道了。”我知道它是什么。'

‘I don’t know how you know.’
“我不知道你是怎么知道的。”

‘The same way that I know when the window’s open-by feeling a draught. You’re going to marry that man.’
“就像我通过感觉到有风来知道窗户何时打开一样。你要嫁给那个男人。

‘What man do you mean?’ Isabel enquired with great dignity.
“你指的是什么人？”伊莎贝尔非常尊严地问道。

‘Madame Merle’s friend-Mr. Osmond.’
“梅尔夫人的朋友——先生。奥斯蒙德。”

‘I don’t know why you call him Madame Merle’s friend. Is that the principal thing he’s known by?’
“我不知道你为什么称他为梅尔夫人的朋友。这是他为人所知的主要事情吗？

‘If he’s not her friend he ought to after what she has done for him!
“如果他不是她的朋友，在她为他所做的一切之后，他应该是她的朋友！”

cried Mrs. Touchett. ‘I shouldn’t have expected it of her; I’m disappointed.’
塔切特夫人叫道。 “我不应该对她抱有这样的期望；我很失望。'

‘If you mean that Madame Merle has had anything to do with my engagement you’re greatly mistaken,’ Isabel declared with a sort of ardent coldness.
“如果你的意思是梅尔夫人与我的订婚有关，那你就大错特错了，”伊莎贝尔带着一种冷酷的语气宣称。

‘You mean that your attractions were sufficient, without the gentleman having had to be lashed up? You’re quite right. They’re immense, your attractions, and he would never have presumed to think of you if she hadn’t put him up to it. He has a very good opinion of himself, but he was not a man to take trouble. Madame Merle took the trouble for him.’
“你的意思是你的吸引力已经足够了，而不必对这位先生进行鞭打？”你说得很对。你的吸引力是巨大的，如果不是她让他这么做，他永远不会想到你。他对自己的评价很好，但他并不是一个爱惹麻烦的人。梅尔夫人帮他解决了这个问题。

‘He has taken a great deal for himself!’ cried Isabel with a voluntary laugh.
“他为自己谋取了很多东西！”伊莎贝尔笑着喊道。

Mrs. Touchett gave a sharp nod. ‘I think he must, after all, to have made you like him so much.’
塔切特夫人猛烈地点点头。 “我想，毕竟，他一定让你如此喜欢他。”

‘I thought he even pleased you.’
“我以为他甚至让你高兴。”

‘He did, at one time; and that’s why I’m angry with him.’
” “他曾经这样做过；这就是我对他生气的原因。

‘Be angry with me, not with him,’ said the girl.
“生我的气，别生他的气，”女孩说。

‘Oh, I’m always angry with you; that’s no satisfaction! Was it for this that you refused Lord Warburton?’
‘噢，我总是生你的气；这不叫满足！你就是因为这个才拒绝沃伯顿勋爵的吗？

‘Please don’t go back to that. Why shouldn’t I like Mr. Osmond, since others have done so?’
‘请不要再回到那个话题了。既然其他人都这样做了，我为什么不应该喜欢奥斯蒙德先生呢？

‘Others, at their wildest moments, never wanted to marry him. There’s nothing of him,’ Mrs. Touchett explained.
“其他人，在最疯狂的时刻，从来不想嫁给他。 “他什么也没有，”图切特夫人解释道。

‘Then he can’t hurt me,’ said Isabel.
“那么他就不能伤害我了，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘Do you think you’re going to be happy? No one’s happy, in such doings, you should know.’
‘你觉得你会幸福吗？没有人会高兴，在这种行为中，你应该知道。

‘I shall set the fashion then. What does one marry for?’
“那么我将引领时尚。”一个人结婚是为了什么？

‘What you will marry for, heaven only knows. People usually marry as they go into partnership-to set up a house. But in your partnership you’ll bring everything.’
‘你结婚的目的是什么，只有天知道。人们通常在建立合伙关系时结婚——建立一个房子。但在你们的伙伴关系中，你会带来一切。”

‘Is it that Mr. Osmond isn’t rich? Is that what you’re talking about?’ Isabel asked.
难道奥斯蒙德先生不富有吗？ “你说的是这个吗？”伊莎贝尔问。

‘He has no money; he has no name; he has no importance. I value such things and I have the courage to say it; I think they’re very precious. Many other people think the same, and they show it. But they give some other reason.’
‘他没有钱；他没有名字；他并不重要。我很看重这样的事情，也有勇气说出来；我认为它们非常珍贵。许多其他人也有同样的想法，并且他们也表现出了这一点。但他们给出了其他一些原因。

Isabel hesitated a little. ‘I think I value everything that’s valuable. I care very much for money, and that’s why I wish Mr. Osmond to have a little.’
伊莎贝尔犹豫了一下。 “我认为我珍惜一切有价值的东西。我非常在乎钱，这就是为什么我希望奥斯蒙德先生有一点。

‘Give it to him then; but marry some one else.’
‘那就给他吧；但嫁给别人。

‘His name’s good enough for me,’ the girl went on. ‘It’s a very pretty name. Have I such a fine one myself?’
“他的名字对我来说已经足够好了，”女孩继续说道。 ‘这是一个非常漂亮的名字。我自己也有这样好的人吗？

‘All the more reason you should improve on it. There are only a dozen American names. Do you marry him out of charity?’
‘更重要的是你应该改进它。美国名字只有十几个。你嫁给他是出于慈善吗？

‘It was my duty to tell you, Aunt Lydia, but I don’t think it’s my duty to explain to you. Even if it were I shouldn’t be able. So please don’t remonstrate; in talking about it you have me at a disadvantage. I can’t talk about it.’
“莉迪亚姨妈，我有责任告诉你，但我不认为我有责任向你解释。就算是我也不应该做得到。所以请不要抗议；在谈论这个问题时，你让我处于劣势。我不能谈论它。

‘I don’t remonstrate, I simply answer you: I must give some sign of intelligence. I saw it coming, and I said nothing. I never meddle.’
“我不是抗议，我只是回答你：我必须表现出一些智慧的迹象。我看到它来了，我什么也没说。我从不插手。

‘You never do, and I’m greatly obliged to you. You’ve been very considerate.’
“你从来没有这样做过，我非常感谢你。你真是太体贴了。

‘It was not considerate-it was convenient,’ said Mrs. Touchett. ‘But I shall talk to Madame Merle.’
“这并不周到，而是很方便，”图切特夫人说。 “但我要和梅尔夫人谈谈。”

‘I don’t see why you keep bringing her in. She has been a very good friend to me.’
“我不明白你为什么一直带她进来。她一直是我的好朋友。”

‘Possibly; but she has been a poor one to me.’
'可能；但她对我来说一直是一个可怜的人。

‘What has she done to you?’
“她对你做了什么？”

‘She has deceived me. She had as good as promised me to prevent your engagement.’
‘她欺骗了我。她已经答应我阻止你订婚了。

‘She couldn’t have prevented it.’
“她无法阻止这一切。”

‘She can do anything; that’s what I’ve always liked her for. I knew she could play any part; but I understood that she played them one by one. I didn’t understand that she would play two at the same time.’
‘她可以做任何事；这就是我一直喜欢她的原因。我知道她可以扮演任何角色；但我明白她是一一弹奏的。我不明白她会同时演奏两部曲。”

‘I don’t know what part she may have played to you,’ Isabel said; ‘that’s between yourselves. To me she has been honest and kind and devoted.’
“我不知道她对你扮演了什么角色，”伊莎贝尔说。 ‘那是你们之间的事。对我来说，她诚实、善良、忠诚。

‘Devoted, of course; she wished you to marry her candidate. She told me she was watching you only in order to interpose.’
“当然是忠诚的；她希望你嫁给她的候选人。她告诉我她看着你只是为了介入。

‘She said that to please you,’ the girl answered; conscious, however, of the inadequacy of the explanation.
“她这么说是为了让你高兴，”女孩回答道。然而，意识到解释的不充分。

‘To please me by deceiving me? She knows me better. Am I pleased to-day?’
‘为了取悦我，欺骗我？她更了解我。我今天高兴吗？

‘I don’t think you’re ever much pleased,’ Isabel was obliged to reply. ‘If Madame Merle knew you would learn the truth what had she to gain by insincerity?’
“我认为你不太高兴，”伊莎贝尔不得不回答。 “如果梅尔夫人知道你会了解真相，她的不诚实能得到什么好处呢？”

‘She gained time, as you see. While I waited for her to interfere you were marching away, and she was really beating the drum.’
“正如你所见，她赢得了时间。当我等她干涉的时候，你就大步走开了，她真的在敲鼓。

‘That’s very well. But by your own admission you saw I was marching, and even if she had given the alarm you wouldn’t have tried to stop me.’
‘那很好。但你自己也承认，你看到我在行进，即使她发出警报，你也不会试图阻止我。”

‘No, but some one else would.’
“不，但其他人会的。”

‘Whom do you mean?’ Isabel asked, looking very hard at her aunt.
“你指的是谁？”伊莎贝尔问道，目光认真地看着她的姨妈。

Mrs. Touchett’s little bright eyes, active as they usually were, sustained her gaze rather than returned it. ‘Would you have listened to Ralph?’
塔切特夫人那双明亮的小眼睛一如既往地活跃，一直注视着她，而不是回应她。 “你会听拉尔夫的话吗？”

‘Not if he had abused Mr. Osmond.’
“如果他虐待了奥斯蒙德先生，那就不会了。”

‘Ralph doesn’t abuse people; you know that perfectly. He cares very much for you.’
“拉尔夫不会虐待人；他不会虐待人。”你非常清楚这一点。他非常关心你。

‘I know he does,’ said Isabel; ‘and I shall feel the value of it now, for he knows that whatever I do I do with reason.’
“我知道他是这样的，”伊莎贝尔说。 “现在我会感受到它的价值，因为他知道我无论做什么都是理性的。”

‘He never believed you would do this. I told him you were capable of it, and he argued the other way.’
“他从来不相信你会这么做。我告诉他你有能力做到这一点，他却反驳道。

‘He did it for the sake of argument,’ the girl smiled. ‘You don’t accuse him of having deceived you; why should you accuse Madame Merle?’
“他这么做是为了争论，”女孩微笑道。 ‘你不指责他欺骗你；你为什么要指责梅尔夫人？

‘He never pretended he’d prevent it.’
“他从不假装他会阻止这一切。”

‘I’m glad of that!’ cried Isabel gaily. ‘I wish very much,’ she presently added, ‘that when he comes you’d tell him first of my engagement.’
“我很高兴！”伊莎贝尔高兴地喊道。 “我非常希望，”她随即补充道，“当他来的时候，你能先告诉他我订婚的事情。”

‘Of course I’ll mention it,’ said Mrs. Touchett. ‘I shall say nothing more to you about it, but I give you notice I shall talk to others.’
“我当然会提到它，”图切特夫人说。 “我不会再对你说这件事了，但我通知你我会和其他人谈谈。”

‘That’s as you please. I only meant that it’s rather better the announcement should come from you than from me.’
‘那就如你所愿吧。我只是想说，这个消息最好由你来宣布，而不是由我来宣布。”

‘I quite agree with you; it’s much more proper!’ And on this the aunt and the niece went to breakfast, where Mrs. Touchett, as good as her word, made no allusion to Gilbert Osmond. After an interval of silence, however, she asked her companion from whom she had received a visit an hour before.
“我非常同意你的观点；就这样，阿姨和侄女去吃早餐了，图切特夫人言出必行，没有提及吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德。然而，沉默了一会儿之后，她问她的同伴，一个小时前她曾接待过谁。

‘From an old friend-an American gentleman,’ Isabel said with a colour in her cheek.
“来自一位老朋友——一位美国绅士。”伊莎贝尔脸色一红说道。

‘An American gentleman of course. It’s only an American gentleman who calls at ten o’clock in the morning.’
“当然是一位美国绅士。只有一位美国绅士早上十点打来电话。”

‘It was half-past ten; he was in a great hurry; he goes away this evening.’
“当时是十点半；他很着急。他今晚就会离开。”

‘Couldn’t he have come yesterday, at the usual time?’
“他昨天就不能在平常的时间来吗？”

‘He only arrived last night.’
“他昨晚才到。”

‘He spends but twenty-four hours in Florence?’ Mrs. Touchett cried. ‘He’s an American gentleman truly.’
“他在佛罗伦萨只待了二十四小时？”图切特夫人喊道。 “他是一位真正的美国绅士。”

‘He is indeed,’ said Isabel, thinking with perverse admiration of what Caspar Goodwood had done for her.
“他确实是，”伊莎贝尔说，带着反常的钦佩想着卡斯帕·古德伍德为她所做的一切。

Two days afterward Ralph arrived; but though Isabel was sure that Mrs. Touchett had lost no time in imparting to him the great fact, he showed at first no open knowledge of it. Their prompted talk was naturally of his health; Isabel had many questions to ask about Corfu. She had been shocked by his appearance when he came into the room; she had forgotten how ill he looked. In spite of Corfu he looked very ill to-day, and she wondered if he were really worse or if she were simply disaccustomed to living with an invalid. Poor Ralph made no nearer approach to conventional beauty as he advanced in life, and the now apparently complete loss of his health had done little to mitigate the natural oddity of his person. Blighted and battered, but still responsive and still ironic, his face was like a lighted lantern patched with paper and unsteadily held; his thin whisker languished upon a lean cheek; the exorbitant curve of his nose defined itself more sharply. Lean he was altogether, lean and long and loose-jointed; an accidental cohesion of relaxed angles. His brown velvet jacket had become perennial; his hands had fixed themselves in his pockets; he shambled and stumbled and shuffled in a manner that denoted great physical helplessness. It was perhaps this whimsical gait that helped to mark his character more than ever as that of the humorous invalid-the invalid for whom even his own disabilities are part of the general joke. They might well indeed with Ralph have been the chief cause of the want of seriousness marking his view of a world in which the reason for his own continued presence was past finding out. Isabel had grown fond of his ugliness; his awkwardness had become dear to her. They had been sweetened by association; they struck her as the very terms on which it had been given him to be charming. He was so charming that her sense of his being ill had hitherto had a sort of comfort in it; the state of his health had seemed not a limitation, but a kind of intellectual advantage; it absolved him from all professional and official emotions and left him the luxury of being exclusively personal. The personality so resulting was delightful; he had remained proof against the staleness of disease; he had had to consent to be deplorably ill, yet had somehow escaped being formally sick. Such had been the girl’s impression of her cousin; and when she had pitied him it was only on reflection. As she reflected a good deal she had allowed him a certain amount of compassion; but she always had a dread of wasting that essence-a precious article, worth more to the giver than to any one else. Now, however, it took no great sensibility to feel that poor Ralph’s tenure of life was less elastic than it should be. He was a bright, free, generous spirit, he had all the illumination of wisdom and none of its pedantry, and yet he was distressfully dying.
两天后，拉尔夫到达了。尽管伊莎贝尔确信图切特夫人不失时机地向他讲述了这个伟大的事实，但他一开始并没有表现出公开的了解。他们立即谈论的自然是他的健康状况。伊莎贝尔有很多关于科孚岛的问题要问。当他走进房间时，她被他的外表震惊了。她忘记了他看上去有多病。尽管是在科孚岛，但他今天看起来病得很重，她想知道他的情况是否真的更糟，或者她只是不习惯与病人住在一起。可怜的拉尔夫在人生的进步中并没有更接近传统的美，而现在他的健康显然完全丧失了，但这并没有减轻他这个人天生的怪异。他饱受摧残，饱受摧残，但仍然反应灵敏，仍然讽刺，他的脸就像一盏贴着纸的点燃的灯笼，摇摇晃晃地举着；他稀疏的胡须垂落在瘦削的脸颊上。他鼻子的弧度过高，显得更加尖锐。他整个人很瘦，又瘦又长，关节松散。放松角度的意外凝聚。他的棕色天鹅绒夹克已经成为永恒的话题。他的双手插在口袋里。他摇摇晃晃、跌跌撞撞、拖着脚步，显示出他身体上的极度无助。也许正是这种异想天开的步态比以往任何时候都更能将他的性格标记为幽默的病人——对他们来说，甚至他自己的残疾也是普遍笑话的一部分。对于拉尔夫来说，这些确实很可能是他对世界观缺乏严肃性的主要原因，在这个世界中，他自己继续存在的原因是无法找出的。伊莎贝尔越来越喜欢他的丑陋。他的尴尬对她来说变得很珍贵。 他们因交往而变得甜蜜。这些话给她留下了深刻的印象，正是这些条件让他变得迷人。他是如此迷人，以至于迄今为止，她对他生病的感觉都有一种安慰。他的健康状况似乎不是一种限制，而是一种智力优势。这使他摆脱了所有职业和官方的情绪，让他可以享受完全个人化的奢侈。由此产生的个性是令人愉快的。他仍然能够抵御疾病的侵袭。他不得不同意自己身患重病，但却以某种方式逃脱了正式生病的命运。这就是女孩对她表弟的印象。当她怜悯他时，那只是经过反思。当她反思了很多之后，她对他产生了一定程度的同情心。但她总是害怕浪费这种精华——一件珍贵的物品，对给予者来说比对其他人更有价值。然而现在，不需要太多的感性就可以感觉到可怜的拉尔夫的生命期限没有应有的弹性。他是一个聪明、自由、慷慨的人，他拥有智慧的全部光照，没有任何迂腐，但他却在痛苦地死去。

Isabel noted afresh that life was certainly hard for some people, and she felt a delicate glow of shame as she thought how easy it now promised to become for herself. She was prepared to learn that Ralph was not pleased with her engagement; but she was not prepared, in spite of her affection for him, to let this fact spoil the situation. She was not even prepared, or so she thought, to resent his want of sympathy; for it would be his privilege-it would be indeed his natural line-to find fault with any step she might take toward marriage. One’s cousin always pretended to hate one’s husband; that was traditional, classical; it was a part of one’s cousin’s always pretending to adore one. Ralph was nothing if not critical; and though she would certainly, other things being equal, have been as glad to marry to please him as to please any one, it would be absurd to regard as important that her choice should square with his views. What were his views after all? He had pretended to believe she had better have married Lord Warburton; but this was only because she had refused that excellent man. If she had accepted him Ralph would certainly have taken another tone; he always took the opposite. You could criticize any marriage; it was the essence of a marriage to be open to criticism. How well she herself, should she only give her mind to it, might criticize this union of her own! She had other employment, however, and Ralph was welcome to relieve her of the care. Isabel was prepared to be most patient and most indulgent. He must have seen that, and this made it the more odd he should say nothing. After three days had elapsed without his speaking our young woman wearied of waiting; dislike it as he would, he might at least go through the form. We, who know more about poor Ralph than his cousin, may easily believe that during the hours that followed his arrival at Palazzo Crescentini he had privately gone through many forms. His mother had literally greeted him with the great news, which had been even more sensibly chilling than Mrs. Touchett’s maternal kiss. Ralph was shocked and humiliated; his calculations had been false and the person in the world in whom he was most interested was lost. He drifted about the house like a rudderless vessel in a rocky stream, or sat in the garden of the palace on a great cane chair, his long legs extended, his head thrown back and his hat pulled over his eyes. He felt cold about the heart; he had never liked anything less. What could he do, what could he say? If the girl were irreclaimable could he pretend to like it? To attempt to reclaim her was permissible only if the attempt should succeed. To try to persuade her of anything sordid or sinister in the man to whose deep art she had succumbed would be decently discreet only in the event of her being persuaded. Otherwise he should simply have damned himself. It cost him an equal effort to speak his thought and to dissemble; he could neither assent with sincerity nor protest with hope. Meanwhile he knew-or rather he supposed-that the affianced pair were daily renewing their mutual vows. Osmond at this moment showed himself little at Palazzo Crescentini; but Isabel met him every day elsewhere, as she was free to do after their engagement had been made public. She had taken a carriage by the month, so as not to be indebted to her aunt for the means of pursuing a course of which Mrs. Touchett disapproved, and she drove in the morning to the Cascine. This suburban wilderness, during the early hours, was void of all intruders, and our young lady, joined by her lover in its quietest part, strolled with him a while through the grey Italian shade and listened to the nightingales.
伊莎贝尔再次指出，生活对某些人来说确实很艰难，当她想到现在对自己来说生活将变得多么轻松时，她感到一丝微妙的羞愧。她已经准备好得知拉尔夫对她的订婚不满意。尽管她很爱他，但她并不准备让这个事实破坏局面。她甚至没有准备好，或者说她是这么认为的，去怨恨他缺乏同情心。因为对她迈向婚姻的任何一步挑剔是他的特权——这确实是他的天性。自己的表弟总是假装恨自己的丈夫；那是传统的、古典的；这是表弟总是假装崇拜一个人的一部分。拉尔夫如果不挑剔的话，就什么都不是。尽管在其他条件相同的情况下，她肯定会像取悦任何人一样乐意结婚以取悦他，但认为她的选择应该符合他的观点是很重要的，这是荒谬的。他的观点到底是什么？他假装相信她最好嫁给沃伯顿勋爵。但这只是因为她拒绝了那个优秀的男人。如果她接受了他，拉尔夫肯定会采取另一种语气。他总是采取相反的态度。你可以批评任何婚姻；婚姻的本质就是接受批评。如果她愿意的话，她自己可能会批评她自己的这种结合！然而，她还有其他工作，欢迎拉尔夫来解除她的照顾。伊莎贝尔做好了最有耐心、最宽容的准备。他一定看到了这一点，这让他什么都不说就更奇怪了。三天过去了，他没有说话，我们的年轻女子厌倦了等待。尽管他不喜欢它，但他至少可以填写一下表格。 我们比他的表弟更了解可怜的拉尔夫，很容易相信，在他到达克雷森蒂尼宫后的几个小时里，他私下里经历了许多形式。他的母亲确实向他传达了这个好消息，这比图切特夫人的母性之吻更加令人毛骨悚然。拉尔夫感到震惊和羞辱。他的计算是错误的，世界上他最感兴趣的人已经消失了。他像一艘在岩石溪流中无舵的船只在房子里漂流，或者坐在宫殿花园里的一张大藤椅上，长长的腿伸直，头向后仰，帽子遮住眼睛。他感到心冷；他从来没有不喜欢任何东西。他能做什么，能说什么？如果这个女孩无可挽回，他还能假装喜欢吗？只有在尝试成功的情况下，才允许尝试夺回她。试图说服她相信这个让她屈服于其深奥艺术的男人有任何肮脏或险恶的地方，只有在她被说服的情况下，才是相当谨慎的。否则他就该诅咒自己。说出自己的想法和掩饰自己的想法需要付出同样的努力。他既不能真诚地同意，也不能满怀希望地抗议。与此同时，他知道——或者更确切地说，他认为——这对订婚的夫妇每天都在更新彼此的誓言。奥斯蒙德此时在克雷森蒂尼宫很少露面。但伊莎贝尔每天都会在其他地方见到他，在他们订婚的消息公布后，她就可以自由地这样做。她按月乘了一辆马车，以免欠她姨妈的债，因为她采取了图切特夫人不赞成的做法。早上，她开车去了卡西尼。 这片郊区的荒野，在清晨，没有任何入侵者，我们的年轻女士和她的爱人一起在最安静的地方，和他一起在灰色的意大利树荫下漫步，聆听夜莺的歌声。

Chapter 34
第34章

One morning, on her return from her drive, some half-hour before luncheon, she quitted her vehicle in the court of the palace and, instead of ascending the great staircase, crossed the court, passed beneath another archway and entered the garden. A sweeter spot at this moment could not have been imagined. The stillness of noontide hung over it, and the warm shade, enclosed and still, made bowers like spacious caves. Ralph was sitting there in the clear gloom, at the base of a statue of Terpsichore-a dancing nymph with taper fingers and inflated draperies in the manner of Bernini; the extreme relaxation of his attitude suggested at first to Isabel that he was asleep. Her light footstep on the grass had not roused him, and before turning away she stood for a moment looking at him. During this instant he opened his eyes; upon which she sat down on a rustic chair that matched with his own. Though in her irritation she had accused him of indifference she was not blind to the fact that he had visibly had something to brood over. But she had explained his air of absence partly by the languor of his increased weakness, partly by worries connected with the property inherited from his father-the fruit of eccentric arrangements of which Mrs. Touchett disapproved and which, as she had told Isabel, now encountered opposition from the other partners in the bank. He ought to have gone to England, his mother said, instead of coming to Florence; he had not been there for months, and took no more interest in the bank than in the state of Patagonia.
一天早上，午餐前大约半小时，她开车回来时，在宫殿的庭院下车，没有走上大楼梯，而是穿过庭院，穿过另一个拱门，进入花园。此时此刻，无法想象还有比这更甜蜜的时刻了。正午的寂静笼罩着它，温暖的树荫封闭而安静，使凉亭像宽敞的洞穴。拉尔夫坐在那儿，在清澈的昏暗中，坐在特尔西科雷雕像的底部——一个跳舞的仙女，手指尖细，帷幔像贝尼尼那样膨胀；他的态度极其放松，伊莎贝尔一开始就觉得他睡着了。她在草地上轻轻的脚步并没有惊醒他，在转身离开之前，她站着看了他一会儿。就在这一刻，他睁开了眼睛；她在一张与他的椅子相配的乡村椅子上坐下。尽管她在愤怒中指责他冷漠，但她并没有对他显然有什么事情要沉思这一事实视而不见。但她解释了他缺席的神情，部分原因是他日益虚弱的倦怠，部分原因是对他父亲继承的财产的担忧——这是塔奇特夫人不赞成的古怪安排的结果，正如她告诉伊莎贝尔的那样，现在遭到银行其他合伙人的反对。他母亲说，他应该去英国，而不是去佛罗伦萨；他已经好几个月没去过那里了，对银行的兴趣并不比对巴塔哥尼亚州的兴趣大。

‘I’m sorry I waked you,’ Isabel said; ‘you look too tired.’
“很抱歉吵醒了你，”伊莎贝尔说。 “你看起来太累了。”

‘I feel too tired. But I was not asleep. I was thinking of you.’
‘我觉得太累了。但我并没有睡着。我在想着你。'

‘Are you tired of that?’
“你厌倦了吗？”

‘Very much so. It leads to nothing. The road’s long and I never arrive.’
'非常如此。它不会导致任何结果。路还很长，我永远也到不了。”

‘What do you wish to arrive at?’ she put to him, closing her parasol.
“你想达到什么目的？”她关上阳伞，问他。

‘At the point of expressing to myself properly what I think of your engagement.’
“在向自己正确表达我对你订婚的看法时。”

‘Don’t think too much of it,’ she lightly returned.
“别想太多。”她淡淡地回道。

‘Do you mean that it’s none of my business?’
“你的意思是这不关我的事吗？”

‘Beyond a certain point, yes.’
“超过某一点，是的。”

‘That’s the point I want to fix. I had an idea you may have found me wanting in good manners. I’ve never congratulated you.’
‘这就是我想解决的问题。我有一个想法，你可能发现我缺乏礼貌。我从来没有祝贺过你。”

‘Of course I’ve noticed that. I wondered why you were silent.’
“我当然注意到了这一点。我想知道你为什么沉默。

‘There have been a good many reasons. I’ll tell you now,’ Ralph said. He pulled off his hat and laid it on the ground; then he sat looking at her. He leaned back under the protection of Bernini, his head against his marble pedestal, his arms dropped on either side of him, his hands laid upon the rests of his wide chair. He looked awkward, uncomfortable; he hesitated long. Isabel said nothing; when people were embarrassed she was usually sorry for them, but she was determined not to help Ralph to utter a word that should not be to the honour of her high decision. ‘I think I’ve hardly got over my surprise,’ he went on at last. ‘You were the last person I expected to see caught.’
“原因有很多。我现在就告诉你，”拉尔夫说。他脱下帽子，把它放在地上。然后他坐下来看着她。他在贝尔尼尼的保护下向后靠去，头靠在大理石基座上，双臂垂在身体两侧，双手放在宽椅子的其余部分上。他看起来很尴尬，很不自在。他犹豫了很久。伊莎贝尔什么也没说。当人们感到尴尬时，她通常会为他们感到抱歉，但她决心不帮助拉尔夫说出不应该尊重她的崇高决定的话。 “我想我还没有从惊讶中恢复过来，”他最后继续说道。 “我最不想看到你被抓到。”

‘I don’t know why you call it caught.’
“我不知道你为什么称之为被抓住。”

‘Because you’re going to be put into a cage.’
“因为你会被关进笼子里。”

‘If I like my cage, that needn’t trouble you,’ she answered.
“如果我喜欢我的笼子，那就不用麻烦你了，”她回答道。

‘That’s what I wonder at; that’s what I’ve been thinking of.’
“这就是我想知道的；这就是我一直在想的。

‘If you’ve been thinking you may imagine how I’ve thought! I’m satisfied that I’m doing well.’
“如果你一直在思考，你可以想象我是怎么想的！我很满意自己做得很好。

‘You must have changed immensely. A year ago you valued your liberty beyond everything. You wanted only to see life.’
‘你一定发生了巨大的变化。一年前，您将自由看得高于一切。你只想看看生活。

‘I’ve seen it,’ said Isabel. ‘It doesn’t look to me now, I admit, such an inviting expanse.’
“我看到了，”伊莎贝尔说。 “我承认，现在对我来说，它不再是一个如此诱人的广阔空间。”

‘I don’t pretend it is; only I had an idea that you took a genial view of it and wanted to survey the whole field.’
“我不假装是这样；只是我知道你对此持友善的态度，并想调查整个领域。

‘I’ve seen that one can’t do anything so general. One must choose a corner and cultivate that.’
“我发现一个人无法做到如此笼统的事情。人们必须选择一个角落并加以培养。

‘That’s what I think. And one must choose as good a corner as possible. I had an idea, all winter, while I read your delightful letters, that you were choosing. You said nothing about it, and your silence put me off my guard.’
'那就是我所想的。而且必须选择尽可能好的角落。整个冬天，当我读到你令人愉快的信件时，我就有一个想法，你正在选择。你对此什么也没说，你的沉默让我失去了警惕。

‘It was not a matter I was likely to write to you about. Besides, I knew nothing of the future. It has all come lately. If you had been on your guard, however,’ Isabel asked, ‘what would you have done?’
“我本来不会写信给你谈论这件事。此外，我对未来一无所知。一切都是最近才来的。然而，如果你保持警惕，”伊莎贝尔问道，“你会怎么做？

‘I should have said ‘Wait a little longer.’
“我应该说‘再等一会儿。’”

‘Wait for what?’
'等什么？'

‘Well, for a little more light,’ said Ralph with rather an absurd smile, while his hands found their way into his pockets.
“好吧，为了多一点光，”拉尔夫带着相当荒谬的微笑说道，同时他的手伸进了口袋。

‘Where should my light have come from? From you?’
‘我的光应该从哪里来？从你那里？

‘I might have struck a spark or two.’
“我可能会碰出一两点火花。”

Isabel had drawn off her gloves; she smoothed them out as they lay upon her knee. The mildness of this movement was accidental, for her expression was not conciliatory. ‘You’re beating about the bush, Ralph. You wish to say you don’t like Mr. Osmond, and yet you’re afraid.’
伊莎贝尔已经脱下了手套。当它们放在膝盖上时，她把它们抚平。这个动作的温和是偶然的，因为她的表情并不安抚。 “拉尔夫，你这是在拐弯抹角。”你想说你不喜欢奥斯蒙德先生，但你又害怕。

‘Willing to wound and yet afraid to strike’? I’m willing to wound him, yes-but not to wound you. I’m afraid of you, not of him. If you marry him it won’t be a fortunate way for me to have spoken.’
“愿意伤害却不敢攻击”？是的，我愿意伤害他，但不会伤害你。我怕你，不怕他。如果你嫁给他，对我来说这将不是一个幸运的方式。

‘If I marry him! Have you had any expectation of dissuading me?’
‘如果我嫁给他就好了！你有想过劝阻我吗？

‘Of course that seems to you too fatuous.’
“当然，你觉得这太愚蠢了。”

‘No,’ said Isabel after a little; ‘it seems to me too touching.’
“不，”过了一会儿伊莎贝尔说道。 “我觉得这太感人了。”

‘That’s the same thing. It makes me so ridiculous that you pity me.’
‘那是同一件事。你可怜我，这让我很可笑。”

She stroked out her long gloves again. ‘I know you’ve a great affection for me. I can’t get rid of that.’
她再次抚摸着长手套。 ‘我知道你对我很有感情。我无法摆脱它。

‘For heaven’s sake don’t try. Keep that well in sight. It will convince you how intensely I want you to do well.’
‘看在老天的份上，不要尝试。保持在视线范围内。它会让你相信我是多么希望你能取得好成绩。”

‘And how little you trust me!’
“你对我是多么不信任啊！”

There was a moment’s silence; the warm noon-tide seemed to listen. ‘I trust you, but I don’t trust him,’ said Ralph.
一阵沉默。正午温暖的潮水似乎在倾听。 “我信任你，但我不信任他，”拉尔夫说。

She raised her eyes and gave him a wide, deep look. ‘You’ve said it now, and I’m glad you’ve made it so clear. But you’ll suffer by it.’
她抬起眼睛，宽阔而深邃地看着他。 “你现在已经说了，我很高兴你说得这么清楚。但你会因此受苦。

‘Not if you’re just.’
“只要你是正义的就不会。”

‘I’m very just,’ said Isabel. ‘What better proof of it can there be than that I’m not angry with you? I don’t know what’s the matter with me, but I’m not. I was when you began, but it has passed away. Perhaps I ought to be angry, but Mr. Osmond wouldn’t think so. He wants me to know everything; that’s what I like him for. You’ve nothing to gain, I know that. I’ve never been so nice to you, as a girl, that you should have much reason for wishing me to remain one. You give very good advice; you’ve often done so. No, I’m very quiet; I’ve always believed in your wisdom,’ she went on, boasting of her quietness, yet speaking with a kind of contained exaltation. It was her passionate desire to be just; it touched Ralph to the heart, affected him like a caress from a creature he had injured. He wished to interrupt, to reassure her; for a moment he was absurdly inconsistent; he would have retracted what he had said. But she gave him no chance; she went on, having caught a glimpse, as she thought, of the heroic line and desiring to advance in that direction. ‘I see you’ve some special idea; I should like very much to hear it. I’m sure it’s disinterested; I feel that. It seems a strange thing to argue about, and of course I ought to tell you definitely that if you expect to dissuade me you may give it up. You’ll not move me an inch; it’s too late. As you say, I’m caught. Certainly it won’t be pleasant for you to remember this, but your pain will be in your own thoughts. I shall never reproach you.’
“我很公正，”伊莎贝尔说。 “还有什么比我没有生你的气更好的证据呢？”我不知道我出了什么问题，但我没有。当你开始的时候我就在，但它已经过去了。也许我应该生气，但奥斯蒙德先生不这么认为。他要我知道一切；这就是我喜欢他的原因。你不会有什么收获，我知道。作为一个女孩，我从来没有对你这么好过，你应该有充分的理由希望我继续做女孩。你给了很好的建议；你经常这样做。不，我很安静；我一直相信你的智慧，”她继续说道，吹嘘自己的安静，但语气中带着一种克制的兴奋。她热切地渴望正义；它触动了拉尔夫的心，就像他受伤的生物的爱抚一样影响着他。他想打断她，让她放心。有一瞬间，他的语气前后矛盾得荒唐可笑。他会收回自己说过的话。但她没有给他机会；她继续前行，正如她所想，她瞥见了英雄路线，并渴望朝这个方向前进。 “我看你有什么特别的想法；我非常想听听。我确信它是无私的；我觉得。争论似乎是一件奇怪的事情，当然我应该明确地告诉你，如果你想劝阻我，你可以放弃它。你不会让我感动一寸；太晚了。正如你所说，我被抓住了。当然，记住这些对你来说不会是愉快的，但你的痛苦会在你自己的想法中。我永远不会责备你。

‘I don’t think you ever will,’ said Ralph. ‘It’s not in the least the sort of marriage I thought you’d make.’
“我认为你永远不会，”拉尔夫说。 “这根本不是我想象中你会缔造的那种婚姻。”

‘What sort of marriage was that, pray?’
“请问，那是什么样的婚姻？”

‘Well, I can hardly say. I hadn’t exactly a positive view of it, but I had a negative. I didn’t think you’d decide for-well, for that type.’
‘好吧，我很难说。我对此并没有完全积极的看法，但我有消极的看法。我认为你不会做出这样的决定。”

‘What’s the matter with Mr. Osmond’s type, if it be one? His being so independent, so individual, is what I most see in him,’ the girl declared. ‘What do you know against him? You know him scarcely at all.’
“如果是奥斯蒙德先生的类型，那是怎么回事？”他如此独立、如此有个性，这是我在他身上最看得到的。”女孩宣称。 ‘你对他了解多少？你根本不了解他。

‘Yes,’ Ralph said, ‘I know him very little, and I confess I haven’t facts and items to prove him a villain. But all the same I can’t help feeling that you’re running a grave risk.’
“是的，”拉尔夫说，“我对他知之甚少，我承认我没有事实和证据证明他是个恶棍。但尽管如此，我还是忍不住觉得你正面临着巨大的风险。”

‘Marriage is always a grave risk, and his risk’s as grave as mine.’
“婚姻总是一个巨大的风险，他的风险和我的一样严重。”

‘That’s his affair! If he’s afraid, let him back out. I wish to God he would.’
‘那是他的事！如果他害怕，就让他出去。我希望上帝能这么做。

Isabel reclined in her chair, folding her arms and gazing a while at her cousin. ‘I don’t think I understand you,’ she said at last coldly. ‘I don’t know what you’re talking about.’
伊莎贝尔靠在椅子上，抱起双臂，凝视了她的表弟一会儿。 “我想我不明白你的意思，”她最后冷冷地说。 “我不知道你在说什么。”

‘I believed you’d marry a man of more importance.’
“我相信你会嫁给一个更重要的男人。”

Cold, I say, her tone had been, but at this a colour like a flame leaped into her face. ‘Of more importance to whom? It seems to me enough that one’s husband should be of importance to one’s self!’
我说，她的语气本来是冷酷的，但此时她的脸上突然出现了一种火​​焰般的颜色。 ‘对谁来说更重要？在我看来，一个人的丈夫应该对自己很重要！

Ralph blushed as well; his attitude embarrassed him. Physically speaking he proceeded to change it; he straightened himself, then leaned forward, resting a hand on each knee. He fixed his eyes on the ground; he had an air of the most respectful deliberation. ‘I’ll tell you in a moment what I mean,’ he presently said. He felt agitated, intensely eager; now that he had opened the discussion he wished to discharge his mind. But he wished also to be superlatively gentle.
拉尔夫也脸红了。他的态度让他很尴尬。从物理上来说，他开始改变它；他挺直身子，然后向前倾身，一只手放在双膝上。他的眼睛盯着地面；他的神态十分恭敬、深思熟虑。 “我一会儿就告诉你我的意思，”他立即说道。他感到焦躁不安，极度渴望。现在他已经开始讨论了，他希望释放自己的思绪。但他也希望表现得极其温柔。

Isabel waited a little-then she went on with majesty. ‘In everything that makes one care for people Mr. Osmond is pre-eminent. There may be nobler natures, but I’ve never had the pleasure of meeting one. Mr. Osmond’s is the finest I know; he’s good enough for me, and interesting enough, and clever enough. I’m far more struck with what he has and what he represents than with what he may lack.’
伊莎贝尔等了一会儿，然后威严地继续说道。 “在关心他人的一切方面，奥斯蒙德先生都是杰出的。也许有更高尚的本性，但我从未有幸遇到过这样的人。奥斯蒙德先生的作品是我所知道的最好的作品。他对我来说足够好，足够有趣，也足够聪明。我对他所拥有的和他所代表的东西更感兴趣，而不是他可能缺乏的东西。

‘I had treated myself to a charming vision of your future,’ Ralph observed without answering this: ‘I had amused myself with planning out a high destiny for you. There was to be nothing of this sort in it. You were not to come down so easily or so soon.’
“我对你的未来抱有一个迷人的愿景，”拉尔夫评论道，但没有回答这个问题：“我为你规划了一个崇高的命运而自娱自乐。”里面不应该有这样的东西。你不会这么容易或这么快就下来。

‘Come down, you say?’
“你说下来吧？”

‘Well, that renders my sense of what has happened to you. You seemed to me to be soaring far up in the blue-to be, sailing in the bright light, over the heads of men. Suddenly some one tosses up a faded rosebud-a missile that should never have reached you-and straight you drop to the ground. It hurts me,’ said Ralph audaciously, ‘hurts me as if I had fallen myself!’
“好吧，这让我明白了你身上发生了什么事。在我看来，你似乎在蔚蓝的天空中翱翔，在明亮的光芒中航行，飞过人们的头顶。突然有人扔出了一朵褪色的玫瑰花蕾——一枚本来不应该到达你身上的导弹——然后你直接掉到了地上。它伤害了我，”拉尔夫大胆地说，“伤害了我，就好像我自己摔倒了一样！”

The look of pain and bewilderment deepened in his companion’s face. ‘I don’t understand you in the least,’ she repeated. ‘You say you amused yourself with a project for my career-I don’t understand that. Don’t amuse yourself too much, or I shall think you’re doing it at my expense.’
他同伴脸上的痛苦和困惑的表情加深了。 “我一点也不理解你，”她重复道。 “你说你用我职业生涯的一个项目来取乐——我不明白。别自娱自乐太多，否则我会认为你是在损害我的利益。”

Ralph shook his head. ‘I’m not afraid of your not believing that I’ve had great ideas for you.’
拉尔夫摇摇头。 “我不怕你不相信我给你带来了好主意。”

‘What do you mean by my soaring and sailing?’ she pursued. ‘I’ve never moved on a higher plane than I’m moving on now. There’s nothing higher for a girl than to marry a-a person she likes,’ said poor Isabel, wandering into the didactic.
“你说的我的翱翔和航行是什么意思？”她追问。 “我从来没有在比现在更高的层面上前进过。对于一个女孩来说，没有什么比嫁给一个她喜欢的人更高的了。”可怜的伊莎贝尔一边说着，一边徘徊在说教之中。

‘It’s your liking the person we speak of that I venture to criticize, my dear cousin. I should have said that the man for you would have been a more active, larger, freer sort of nature.’ Ralph hesitated, then added: ‘I can’t get over the sense that Osmond is somehow-well, small.’ He had uttered the last word with no great assurance; he was afraid she would flash out again. But to his surprise she was quiet; she had the air of considering.
“我亲爱的表弟，我敢于批评的是你喜欢我们谈论的那个人。我应该说，适合你的人应该是一个更活跃、更伟大、更自由的人。”拉尔夫犹豫了一下，然后补充道：“我无法克服奥斯蒙德不知何故——嗯，很小的感觉。”他说出最后一句话时并没有很大的把握；他害怕她会再次闪现。但令他惊讶的是，她很安静。她一副若有所思的神情。

‘Small?’ She made it sound immense.
“小？”她听起来很大。

‘I think he’s narrow, selfish. He takes himself so seriously!
“我认为他很狭隘、自私。他竟然这么认真地对待自己！

‘He has a great respect for himself; I don’t blame him for that,’ said Isabel. ‘It makes one more sure to respect others.’
“他非常尊重自己；我不会为此责怪他，”伊莎贝尔说。 “这让人更加确信尊重他人。”

Ralph for a moment felt almost reassured by her reasonable tone. ‘Yes, but everything is relative; one ought to feel one’s relation to things-to others. I don’t think Mr. Osmond does that.’
拉尔夫一时间对她合理的语气感到几乎放心了。 ‘是的，但一切都是相对的；一个人应该感受到自己与事物——与他人的关系。我认为奥斯蒙德先生不会这么做。

‘I’ve chiefly to do with his relation to me. In that he’s excellent.’
“我主要关心的是他和我的关系。他很优秀。

‘He’s the incarnation of taste,’ Ralph went on, thinking hard how he could best express Gilbert Osmond’s sinister attributes without putting himself in the wrong by seeming to describe him coarsely. He wished to describe him impersonally, scientifically. ‘He judges and measures, approves and condemns, altogether by that.’
“他是品味的化身，”拉尔夫继续说道，并努力思考如何才能最好地表达吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德的险恶属性，同时又不会因为粗俗地描述他而让自己陷入错误。他希望客观地、科学地描述他。 “他完全以此来判断、衡量、批准和谴责。”

‘It’s a happy thing then that his taste should be exquisite.’
“那么他的品味应该很精致，这是一件令人高兴的事情。”

‘It’s exquisite, indeed, since it has led him to select you as his bride. But have you ever seen such a taste-a really exquisite one-ruffled?’
“这确实很美妙，因为这让他选择了你作为他的新娘。但你见过这样的味道吗——真正精致的荷叶边？

‘I hope it may never be my fortune to fail to gratify my husband’s.’
“我希望不能满足我丈夫的愿望永远不会成为我的幸运。”

At these words a sudden passion leaped to Ralph’s lips. ‘Ah, that’s wilful, that’s unworthy of you! You were not meant to be measured in that way-you were meant for something better than to keep guard over the sensibilities of a sterile dilettante!’
听到这句话，拉尔夫的嘴里突然涌起一股激情。 ‘唉，真是任性啊，不配啊！你不应该被这样衡量——你应该做一些比监视一个不育的业余爱好者的情感更好的事情！

Isabel rose quickly and he did the same, so that they stood for a moment looking at each other as if he had flung down a defiance or an insult. But ‘You go too far,’ she simply breathed.
伊莎贝尔迅速站起来，他也做了同样的事，他们站了一会儿，面面相觑，仿佛他发出了蔑视或侮辱。但她只是叹息道：“你太过分了。”

‘I’ve said what I had on my mind-and I’ve said it because I love you!’
“我已经说出了我的想法——我这么说是因为我爱你！”

Isabel turned pale: was he too on that tiresome list? She had a sudden wish to strike him off. ‘Ah then, you’re not disinterested!’
伊莎贝尔脸色苍白：他也在那个令人厌烦的名单上吗？她突然很想把他甩掉。 “啊，那么，你也不是没有兴趣！”

‘I love you, but I love without hope,’ said Ralph quickly, forcing a smile and feeling that in that last declaration he had expressed more than he intended.
“我爱你，但我的爱没有希望，”拉尔夫很快说道，强颜欢笑，他觉得在最后的声明中他表达的超出了他的本意。

Isabel moved away and stood looking into the sunny stillness of the garden; but after a little she turned back to him. ‘I’m afraid your talk then is the wildness of despair! I don’t understand it-but it doesn’t matter. I’m not arguing with you; it’s impossible I should; I’ve only tried to listen to you. I’m much obliged to you for attempting to explain,’ she said gently, as if the anger with which she had just sprung up had already subsided. ‘It’s very good of you to try to warn me, if you’re really alarmed; but I won’t promise to think of what you’ve said: I shall forget it as soon as possible. Try and forget it yourself; you’ve done your duty, and no man can do more. I can’t explain to you what I feel, what I believe, and I wouldn’t if I could.’ She paused a moment and then went on with an inconsequence that Ralph observed even in the midst of his eagerness to discover some symptom of concession. ‘I can’t enter into your idea of Mr. Osmond; I can’t do it justice, because I see him in quite another way. He’s not important-no, he’s not important; he’s a man to whom importance is supremely indifferent. If that’s what you mean when you call him ‘small,’ then he’s as small as you please. I call that large-it’s the largest thing I know. I won’t pretend to argue with you about a person I’m going to marry,’ Isabel repeated. ‘I’m not in the least concerned to defend Mr. Osmond; he’s not so weak as to need my defence. I should think it would seem strange even to yourself that I should talk of him so quietly and coldly, as if he were any one else. I wouldn’t talk of him at all to any one but you; and you, after what you’ve said-I may just answer you once for all. Pray, would you wish me to make a mercenary marriage-what they call a marriage of ambition? I’ve only one ambition-to be free to follow out a good feeling. I had others once, but they’ve passed away. Do you complain of Mr. Osmond because he’s not rich? That’s just what I like him for. I’ve fortunately money enough; I’ve never felt so thankful for it as to-day. There have been moments when I should like to go and kneel down by your father’s grave: he did perhaps a better thing than he knew when he put it into my power to marry a poor man-a man who has borne his poverty with such dignity, with such indifference. Mr. Osmond has never scrambled nor struggled he has cared for no worldly prize. If that’s to be narrow, if that’s to be selfish, then it’s very well. I’m not frightened by such words, I’m not even displeased; I’m only sorry that you should make a mistake. Others might have done so, but I’m surprised that you should. You might know a gentleman when you see one-you might know a fine mind. Mr. Osmond makes no mistakes! He knows everything, he understands everything, he has the kindest, gentlest, highest spirit. You’ve got hold of some false idea. It’s a pity, but I can’t help it; it regards you more than me.’ Isabel paused a moment, looking at her cousin with an eye illumined by a sentiment which contradicted the careful calmness of her manner-a mingled sentiment, to which the angry pain excited by his words and the wounded pride of having needed to justify a choice of which she felt only the nobleness and purity, equally contributed. Though she paused Ralph said nothing; he saw she had more to say. She was grand, but she was highly solicitous; she was indifferent, but she was all in a passion. ‘What sort of a person should you have liked me to marry?’ she asked suddenly. ‘You talk about one’s soaring and sailing, but if one marries at all one touches the earth. One has human feelings and needs, one has a heart in one’s bosom, and one must marry a particular individual. Your mother has never forgiven me for not having come to a better understanding with Lord Warburton, and she’s horrified at my contenting myself with a person who has none of his great advantages-no property, no title, no honours, no houses, nor lands, nor position, nor reputation, nor brilliant belongings of any sort. It’s the total absence of all these things that pleases me. Mr. Osmond’s simply a very lonely, a very cultivated and a very honest man-he’s not a prodigious proprietor.’
伊莎贝尔走开，站在那里，望着花园里阳光灿烂的寂静。但过了一会儿，她又转向他。 ‘恐怕你的话就是绝望的狂野！我不明白——但这并不重要。我不是在和你争论；我不可能这么做；我只是想听听你的意见。我非常感谢你试图解释，”她温柔地说，仿佛她刚刚爆发的愤怒已经平息了。 “如果你真的很担心的话，你能尝试警告我真是太好了；但我不保证会想起你所说的话：我会尽快忘记。试着自己忘记它；你已经尽了你的职责，没有人能做得更多。我无法向你解释我的感受，我的信念，如果可以的话我也不会。”她停顿了一下，然后继续说拉尔夫在急于发现某些症状时发现的不合逻辑的话。的让步。 “我无法理解你对奥斯蒙德先生的看法；我无法公正地看待他，因为我以完全不同的方式看待他。他不重要——不，他不重要；他不重要。对他来说，重要性是极其漠不关心的。如果这就是你称他“小”时的意思，那么他就小如你所愿。我称之为“大”——这是我所知道的最大的东西。我不会假装与你争论我要结婚的人，”伊莎贝尔重复道。 “我一点也不关心为奥斯蒙德先生辩护；我不想为他辩护。”他还没有弱到需要我的保护。我想，连你自己都会觉得奇怪，我如此平静而冷漠地谈论他，就好像他是另一个人一样。除了你之外，我根本不会跟任何人谈论他。而你，在你说完之后——我可能只回答你一次。请问，你希望我缔结一场唯利是图的婚姻吗——他们称之为野心婚姻？ 我只有一个野心——自由地追求一种美好的感觉。我曾经有过其他人，但他们都去世了。你是否因为奥斯蒙德先生不富有而抱怨他？这正是我喜欢他的原因。幸好我有足够的钱；我从来没有像今天这样感到如此感激。有时候，我真想走到你父亲的坟前跪下：当他让我有能力嫁给一个穷人时，他做了一件比他想象的更好的事——一个以如此尊严的方式忍受贫困的人。 ，如此冷漠。奥斯蒙德先生从不争抢，也不挣扎，他不关心世俗的奖品。如果那是狭隘的，如果那是自私的，那就很好了。我不被这些话吓倒，甚至不高兴；我只是很抱歉你犯了一个错误。其他人可能已经这样做了，但我很惊讶你应该这样做。当你见到一位绅士时，你可能会认识一位绅士——你可能会认识一位聪明的人。奥斯蒙德先生没有犯任何错误！他知道一切，他明白一切，他有最善良、最温柔、最高尚的精神。你有一些错误的想法。可惜，却无可奈何； “它更关心你，而不是我。”伊莎贝尔停顿了一会儿，看着她的表弟，她的眼睛里闪烁着一种与她谨慎冷静的态度相矛盾的情绪——一种混合的情绪，他的话激起了愤怒的痛苦和受伤的自尊心。她需要证明自己的选择是合理的，而她只觉得这种选择的高贵性和纯洁性同样有贡献。尽管她停了下来，拉尔夫什么也没说。他看出她还有更多话要说。她身材高大，但又非常热心。她淡漠，却又充满激情。 “你希望我嫁给什么样的人？”她突然问道。 ‘你谈论一个人的翱翔和航行，但如果一个人结婚了，那么他就接触了大地。一个人有人类的感情和需要，一个人有一颗心，一个人必须嫁给一个特定的人。你母亲从来没有原谅我没有与沃伯顿勋爵取得更好的理解，她对我满足于一个没有他的巨大优势的人感到震惊——没有财产，没有头衔，没有荣誉，没有房子，也没有土地，也不是地位，也不是声誉，也不是任何种类的辉煌财产。令我高兴的是，所有这些事情都没有了。奥斯蒙德先生只是一个非常孤独、非常有教养、非常诚实的人——他不是一个了不起的业主。’

Ralph had listened with great attention, as if everything she said merited deep consideration; but in truth he was only half thinking of the things she said, he was for the rest simply accommodating himself to the weight of his total impression-the impression of her ardent good faith. She was wrong, but she believed; she was deluded, but she was dismally consistent. It was wonderfully characteristic of her that, having invented a fine theory about Gilbert Osmond, she loved him not for what he really possessed, but for his very poverties dressed out as honours. Ralph remembered what be had said to his father about wishing to put it into her power to meet the requirements of her imagination. He had done so, and the girl had taken full advantage of luxury. Poor Ralph felt sick; he felt ashamed. Isabel had uttered her last words with a low solemnity of conviction which virtually terminated the discussion, and she closed it formally by turning away and walking back to the house. Ralph walked beside her, and they passed into the court together and reached the big staircase. Here he stopped and Isabel paused, turning on him a face of elation-absolutely and perversely of gratitude. His opposition had made her own conception of her conduct clearer to her. ‘Shall you not come up to breakfast?’ she asked.
拉尔夫全神贯注地听着，仿佛她所说的一切都值得深思熟虑。但事实上，他只考虑了一半她说的话，其余的只是让自己适应他的总体印象的分量——她热忱的善意的印象。她错了，但她相信；她被欺骗了，但她却始终如一。她的一个奇妙的特点是，在发明了一个关于吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德的美好理论后，她爱他不是因为他真正拥有的东西，而是因为他把贫穷打扮成荣誉。拉尔夫记得她曾对父亲说过，希望利用她的力量来满足她想象力的要求。他这样做了，而女孩也充分利用了奢侈。可怜的拉尔夫感到恶心；他感到羞愧。伊莎贝尔带着一种低沉庄严的信念说出了她的最后一句话，这实际上结束了讨论，她转身走回房子，正式结束了讨论。拉尔夫走在她身边，他们一起走进庭院，来到大楼梯前。说到这里，他停了下来，伊莎贝尔也停了下来，脸上露出欣喜若狂的表情——绝对是感激之情，但又反常。他的反对使她对自己的行为有了更清晰的认识。 “你不来吃早餐吗？”她问。

‘No; I want no breakfast; I’m not hungry.’
'不;我不想吃早餐；我不饿。'

‘You ought to eat,’ said the girl; ‘you live on air.’
“你应该吃饭，”女孩说。 “你靠空气生活。”

‘I do, very much, and I shall go back into the garden and take another mouthful. I came thus far simply to say this. I told you last year that if you were to get into trouble I should feel terribly sold. That’s how I feel to-day.’
“我愿意，非常愿意，我会回到花园再喝一口。”我来到这里只是为了说这个。我去年告诉过你，如果你遇到麻烦，我会感到非常沮丧。这就是我今天的感受。

‘Do you think I’m in trouble?’
“你认为我有麻烦吗？”

‘One’s in trouble when one’s in error.’
“当一个人犯了错误时，他就会陷入麻烦。”

‘Very well,’ said Isabel; ‘I shall never complain of my trouble to you!
“很好，”伊莎贝尔说。 “我永远不会向你抱怨我的麻烦！

And she moved up the staircase.
她走上楼梯。

Ralph, standing there with his hands in his pockets followed her with his eyes; then the lurking chill of the high-walled court struck him and made him shiver, so that he returned to the garden to breakfast on the Florentine sunshine.
拉尔夫站在那里，双手插在口袋里，眼睛注视着她。然后，高墙庭院里潜伏的寒意袭来，让他打了个寒战，于是他回到花园，在佛罗伦萨的阳光下吃早餐。

Chapter 35
第35章

Isabel, when she strolled in the Cascine with her lover, felt no impulse to tell him how little he was approved at Palazzo Crescentini. The discreet opposition offered to her marriage by her aunt and her cousin made on the whole no great impression upon her; the moral of it was simply that they disliked Gilbert Osmond. This dislike was not alarming to Isabel; she scarcely even regretted it; for it served mainly to throw into higher relief the fact, in every way so honourable, that she married to please herself. One did other things to please other people; one did this for a more personal satisfaction; and Isabel’s satisfaction was confirmed by her lover’s admirable good conduct. Gilbert Osmond was in love, and he had never deserved less than during these still, bright days, each of them numbered, which preceded the fulfilment of his hopes, the harsh criticism passed upon him by Ralph Touchett. The chief impression produced on Isabel’s spirit by this criticism was that the passion of love separated its victim terribly from every one but the loved object. She felt herself disjoined from every one she had ever known before-from her two sisters, who wrote to express a dutiful hope that she would be happy, and a surprise, somewhat more vague, at her not having chosen a consort who was the hero of a richer accumulation of anecdote; from Henrietta, who, she was sure, would come out, too late, on purpose to remonstrate; from Lord Warburton, who would certainly console himself, and from Caspar Goodwood, who perhaps would not; from her aunt, who had cold, shallow ideas about marriage, for which she was not sorry to display her contempt; and from Ralph, whose talk about having great views for her was surely but a whimsical cover for a personal disappointment. Ralph apparently wished her not to marry at all-that was what it really meant-because he was amused with the spectacle of her adventures as a single woman. His disappointment made him say angry things about the man she had preferred even to him: Isabel flattered herself that she believed Ralph had been angry. It was the more easy for her to believe this because, as I say, she had now little free or unemployed emotion for minor needs, and accepted as an incident, in fact quite as an ornament, of her lot the idea that to prefer Gilbert Osmond as she preferred him was perforce to break all other ties. She tasted of the sweets of this preference, and they made her conscious, almost with awe, of the invidious and remorseless tide of the charmed and possessed condition, great as was the traditional honour and imputed virtue of being in love. It was the tragic part of happiness; one’s right was always made of the wrong of some one else.
当伊莎贝尔和她的爱人在卡西尼漫步时，她没有冲动告诉他，他在克雷森蒂尼宫很少受到认可。姑妈和表弟对她的婚姻提出的谨慎反对总体上并没有给她留下什么深刻的印象。其寓意很简单，就是他们不喜欢吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德。这种厌恶并没有让伊莎贝尔感到惊慌。她几乎没有后悔过。因为这主要是为了凸显这样一个事实：她结婚是为了取悦自己，从各方面来看都是如此光荣。一个人做其他事是为了取悦别人；人们这样做是为了更个人的满足；伊莎贝尔的满足感从她爱人令人钦佩的良好行为中得到证实。吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德陷入了爱情，在这些平静、光明的日子里，他最值得的，每一天都屈指可数，在他的希望实现之前，拉尔夫·图切特对他提出了严厉的批评。这种批评给伊莎贝尔的精神造成的主要印象是，爱情的激情将受害者与除了所爱的对象之外的所有人都严重分开。她觉得自己与她以前认识的每一个人都脱节了——与她的两个姐妹脱节了，她们写信表达了一种尽职尽责的希望，希望她能幸福，也对她没有选择一位英雄配偶感到惊讶，有点模糊。积累更丰富的轶事；她确信亨丽埃塔会故意出来抗议，但已经太晚了。沃伯顿勋爵肯定会安慰自己，而卡斯帕·古德伍德也许不会安慰自己。来自她的姨妈，她对婚姻有着冷漠、肤浅的想法，对此她并不羞于表现出她的蔑视；还有拉尔夫，他所说的对她有很好的看法肯定只是异想天开地掩盖了个人的失望。 拉尔夫显然希望她根本不要结婚——这才是真正的意思——因为他对她作为单身女性的冒险奇观感到好笑。他的失望让他对这个她甚至比他更喜欢的男人说了一些愤怒的话：伊莎贝尔自以为她相信拉尔夫生气了。她更容易相信这一点，因为，正如我所说，她现在几乎没有自由或失业的情感来满足较小的需求，并接受了她的命运的一个事件，实际上是一个装饰品，她认为更喜欢吉尔伯特她更喜欢奥斯蒙德，他被迫打破所有其他联系。她尝到了这种偏爱的甜头，它们使她几乎怀着敬畏地意识到被迷惑和着魔的状态所带来的令人厌恶和无情的浪潮，就像传统的荣誉和恋爱中被推崇的美德一样伟大。这是幸福的悲剧部分。一个人的正确总是由别人的错误造成的。

The elation of success, which surely now flamed high in Osmond, emitted meanwhile very little smoke for so brilliant a blaze. Contentment, on his part, took no vulgar form; excitement, in the most self-conscious of men, was a kind of ecstasy of self-control. This disposition, however, made him an admirable lover; it gave him a constant view of the smitten and dedicated state. He never forgot himself, as I say; and so he never forgot to be graceful and tender, to wear the appearance-which presented indeed no difficulty-of stirred senses and deep intentions. He was immensely pleased with his young lady; Madame Merle had made him a present of incalculable value. What could be a finer thing to live with than a high spirit attuned to softness? For would not the softness be all for one’s self, and the strenuousness for society, which admired the air of superiority? What could be a happier gift in a companion than a quick, fanciful mind which saved one repetitions and reflected one’s thought on a polished, elegant surface? Osmond hated to see his thought reproduced literally-that made it look stale and stupid; he preferred it to be freshened in the reproduction even as ‘words’ by music. His egotism had never taken the crude form of desiring a dull wife; this lady’s intelligence was to be a silver plate, not an earthen one-a plate that he might heap up with ripe fruits, to which it would give a decorative value, so that talk might become for him a sort of served dessert. He found the silver quality in this perfection in Isabel; he could tap her imagination with his knuckle and make it ring. He knew perfectly, though he had not been told, that their union enjoyed little favour with the girl’s relations; but he had always treated her so completely as an independent person that it hardly seemed necessary to express regret for the attitude of her family. Nevertheless, one morning, he made an abrupt allusion to it. ‘It’s the difference in our fortune they don’t like,’ he said. ‘They think I’m in love with your money.’
成功的喜悦现在在奥斯蒙德心中熊熊燃烧，但同时却几乎没有冒出如此耀眼的火焰。对他而言，满足感并不粗俗。对于最不自在的人来说，兴奋是一种自我控制的狂喜。然而，这种性格使他成为一位令人钦佩的情人。这让他不断地看到那种被迷恋和奉献的状态。正如我所说，他从未忘记自己；因此，他永远不会忘记表现得优雅、温柔，表现出一种情感激动、意图深刻的样子——这确实没有什么困难。他对他的年轻女士非常满意。梅尔夫人送给他一份价值无法估量的礼物。还有什么比与温柔相协调的昂扬精神更美好的生活呢？因为柔弱不都是为了自己，奋进不都是为了社会，崇尚高高在上吗？对于伴侣来说，还有什么比一个敏捷、富有想象力的头脑更令人快乐的礼物呢？它可以省去重复，并在光滑、优雅的表面上反映一个人的想法？奥斯蒙德讨厌看到他的想法被逐字复制——这使它看起来陈旧而愚蠢；他更喜欢它在再现中焕然一新，就像音乐中的“文字”一样。他的自私从来没有表现为渴望一个迟钝的妻子。这位女士的智慧是一个银盘，而不是一个土盘——一个他可以堆满成熟水果的盘子，它会赋予它装饰价值，这样谈话对他来说就可能成为一种甜点。他在伊莎贝尔身上发现了这种完美的银色品质。他可以用指关节敲击她的想象力并使其响起。 尽管没有人告诉他，他却清楚地知道，他们的结合并没有得到女孩的亲戚们的青睐。但他一直把她完全当作一个独立的人来对待，似乎没有必要对她家人的态度表示遗憾。然而，有一天早上，他突然提到了这一点。他说，“他们不喜欢我们命运的差异。” “他们认为我爱上了你的钱。’

‘Are you speaking of my aunt-of my cousin?’ Isabel asked. ‘How do you know what they think?’
“你是在说我的姑姑——我的表弟吗？”伊莎贝尔问。 “你怎么知道他们怎么想？”

‘You’ve not told me they’re pleased, and when I wrote to Mrs. Touchett the other day she never answered my note. If they had been delighted I should have had some sign of it, and the fact of my being poor and you rich is the most obvious explanation of their reserve. But of course when a poor man marries a rich girl he must be prepared for imputations. I don’t mind them; I only care for one thing-for your not having the shadow of a doubt. I don’t care what people of whom I ask nothing think-I’m not even capable perhaps of wanting to know. I’ve never so concerned myself, God forgive me, and why should I begin to-day, when I have taken to myself a compensation for everything? I won’t pretend I’m sorry you’re rich; I’m delighted. I delight in everything that’s yours-whether it be money or virtue. Money’s a horrid thing to follow, but a charming thing to meet. It seems to me, however, that I’ve sufficiently proved the limits of my itch for it: I never in my life tried to earn a penny, and I ought to be less subject to suspicion than most of the people one sees grubbing and grabbing. I suppose it’s their business to suspect-that of your family; it’s proper on the whole they should. They’ll like me better some day; so will you, for that matter. Meanwhile my business is not to make myself bad blood, but simply to be thankful for life and love.’ ‘It has made me better, loving you,’ he said on another occasion; ‘it has made me wiser and easier and I won’t pretend to deny-brighter and nicer and even stronger. I used to want a great many things before and to be angry I didn’t have them. Theoretically I was satisfied, as I once told you. I flattered myself I had limited my wants. But I was subject to irritation; I used to have morbid, sterile, hateful fits of hunger, of desire. Now I’m really satisfied, because I can’t think of anything better. It’s just as when one has been trying to spell out a book in the twilight and suddenly the lamp comes in. I had been putting out my eyes over the book of life and finding nothing to reward me for my pains; but now that I can read it properly I see it’s a delightful story. My dear girl, I can’t tell you how life seems to stretch there before us-what a long summer afternoon awaits us. It’s the latter half of an Italian day-with a golden haze, and the shadows just lengthening, and that divine delicacy in the light, the air, the landscape, which I have loved all my life and which you love to-day. Upon my honour, I don’t see why we shouldn’t get on. We’ve got what we like-to say nothing of having each other. We’ve the faculty of admiration and several capital convictions. We’re not stupid, we’re not mean, we’re not under bonds to any kind of ignorance or dreariness. You’re remarkably fresh, and I’m remarkably well-seasoned. We’ve my poor child to amuse us; we’ll try and make up some little life for her. It’s all soft and mellow-it has the Italian colouring.’
“你没有告诉我他们很高兴，有一天我写信给图切特夫人时，她从未回复我的信。如果他们很高兴，我应该有一些迹象，而我贫穷而你富有的事实就是他们的保留的最明显的解释。当然，当一个穷人娶了一个富家女时，他必须做好遭受指责的准备。我不介意他们；我只在乎一件事——让你没有一丝怀疑的影子。我不在乎那些我不问的人怎么想——我什至可能没有能力想知道。我从来没有这么关心过自己，上帝宽恕我，既然我已经为自己的一切做出了补偿，为什么我要从今天开始呢？我不会假装对你富有而感到遗憾；我很开心。我喜欢你拥有的一切——无论是金钱还是美德。追逐金钱是一件可怕的事情，但遇见金钱却是一件迷人的事情。然而，在我看来，我已经充分证明了我对它的渴望的极限：我一生中从未试图赚一分钱，而且我应该比大多数人看到的那些苦苦挣扎的人更少受到怀疑。抢夺。我想怀疑是他们的事——你的家人的事；总的来说，他们应该这样做。总有一天他们会更喜欢我；就此而言，你也会的。与此同时，我的任务不是让自己变得不友善，而只是感谢生活和爱。“爱你让我变得更好，”他在另一个场合说道； “它让我变得更聪明、更轻松，我不会假装否认——更聪明、更友善、甚至更坚强。以前我想要很多东西，却因为没有得到而生气。理论上我很满意，正如我曾经告诉过你的那样。我自以为我的需求有限。但我很容易恼怒。我曾经因饥饿和欲望而病态、贫瘠、可恨。 现在我真的很满足，因为我想不出更好的了。这就像一个人在暮色中试图拼出一本书，突然灯亮了。我一直把目光放在生命之书上，却找不到任何东西可以奖励我的辛苦；但现在我可以正确地阅读它，我发现这是一个令人愉快的故事。我亲爱的女孩，我无法告诉你生活在我们面前是如何展开的——等待着我们的是多么漫长的夏日午后。这是意大利一天的后半段——金色的薄雾笼罩着金色的薄雾，影子拉长了，光线、空气、风景里有一种神圣的美味，我一生都爱着它，今天你也爱着它。恕我直言，我不明白我们为什么不能继续相处。我们都有自己喜欢的东西——更不用说拥有彼此了。我们有钦佩的能力和一些坚定的信念。我们并不愚蠢，我们并不卑鄙，我们没有受到任何无知或沉闷的束缚。你非常新鲜，而我却非常老练。我们有我可怜的孩子来逗我们玩；我们会尽力为她创造一些小生活。一切都柔软而醇厚——具有意大利色彩。’

They made a good many plans, but they left themselves also a good deal of latitude; it was a matter of course, however, that they should live for the present in Italy. It was in Italy that they had met, Italy had been a party to their first impressions of each other, and Italy should be a party to their happiness. Osmond had the attachment of old acquaintance and Isabel the stimulus of new, which seemed to assure her a future at a high level of consciousness of the beautiful. The desire for unlimited expansion had been succeeded in her soul by the sense that life was vacant without some private duty that might gather one’s energies to a point. She had told Ralph she had ‘seen life’ in a year or two and that she was already tired, not of the act of living, but of that of observing. What had become of all her ardours, her aspirations, her theories, her high estimate of her independence and her incipient conviction that she should never marry? These things had been absorbed in a more primitive need-a need the answer to which brushed away numberless questions, yet gratified infinite desires. It simplified the situation at a stroke, it came down from above like the light of the stars, and it needed no explanation. There was explanation enough in the fact that he was her lover, her own, and that she should be able to be of use to him. She could surrender to him with a kind of humility, she could marry him with a kind of pride; she was not only taking, she was giving.
他们制定了很多计划，但也给自己留下了很大的自由空间。然而，他们现在应该住在意大利，这是理所当然的。他们是在意大利相识的，意大利是他们彼此第一印象的一方，意大利也应该是他们幸福的一方。奥斯蒙德对老相识有依恋，而伊莎贝尔则有新相识的刺激，这似乎保证了她未来具有高度的美意识。她灵魂中对无限扩张的渴望已经被一种感觉所取代，即生活是空虚的，没有一些可以将一个人的能量聚集到一定程度的私人责任。她告诉拉尔夫，她已经在一两年内“看到了生活”，她已经厌倦了，不是对生活的行为，而是对观察的行为。她所有的热情、她的抱负、她的理论、她对自己独立性的高度评价以及她最初认为自己永远不应该结婚的信念都变成了什么？这些东西被一种更原始​​的需求所吸引——这种需求的答案消除了无数的问题，但却满足了无限的欲望。一举简化了情况，如同星光一般从天而降，不需要任何解释。事实上，他是她的爱人，她自己的爱人，她应该能够为他所用，这一事实就足以解释了。她可以带着一种谦卑臣服于他，她可以带着一种骄傲嫁给他；她不仅在索取，而且在给予。

He brought Pansy with him two or three times to the Cascine-Pansy who was very little taller than a year before, and not much older. That she would always be a child was the conviction expressed by her father, who held her by the hand when she was in her sixteenth year and told her to go and play while he sat down a little with the pretty lady. Pansy wore a short dress and a long coat; her hat always seemed too big for her. She found pleasure in walking off, with quick, short steps, to the end of the alley, and then in walking back with a smile that seemed an appeal for approbation. Isabel approved in abundance, and the abundance had the personal touch that the child’s affectionate nature craved. She watched her indications as if for herself also much depended on them-Pansy already so represented part of the service she could render, part of the responsibility she could face. Her father took so the childish view of her that he had not yet explained to her the new relation in which he stood to the elegant Miss Archer. ‘She doesn’t know,’ he said to Isabel; ‘she doesn’t guess; she thinks it perfectly natural that you and I should come and walk here together simply as good friends. There seems to me something enchantingly innocent in that; it’s the way I like her to be. No, I’m not a failure, as I used to think; I’ve succeeded in two things. I’m to marry the woman I adore, and I’ve brought up my child, as I wished, in the old way.’
他带着潘西去了卡辛潘西两三次，她比一年前只高了一点点，年纪也大不了多少。她的父亲坚信她永远是个孩子，在她十六岁的时候，父亲握着她的手，让她去玩，而他则和这位漂亮的女士坐下来。 Pansy穿着短裙和长外套；她的帽子总是显得太大了。她很高兴地快步走开，走到小巷的尽头，然后带着微笑走回来，似乎在寻求认可。伊莎贝尔对此表示了极大的认可，而这种丰富的感情也符合孩子深情的天性所渴望的个人风格。她看着她的迹象，仿佛她自己也很大程度上依赖于它们——潘西已经代表了她可以提供的服务的一部分，她可以面对的责任的一部分。她父亲对她的看法太幼稚了，以至于还没有向她解释他与优雅的阿切尔小姐之间的新关系。 “她不知道，”他对伊莎贝尔说。 ‘她不会猜测；她认为你和我作为好朋友一起来这里散步是很自然的。在我看来，这其中有一种令人着迷的纯真；这就是我喜欢她的样子。不，我并不像我以前认为的那样是个失败者；我在两件事上取得了成功。我要娶我心爱的女人，并且按照我的意愿，用老办法抚养我的孩子。”

He was very fond, in all things, of the ‘old way”; that had struck Isabel as one of his fine, quiet, sincere notes. ‘It occurs to me that you’ll not know whether you’ve succeeded until you’ve told her,’ she said. ‘You must see how she takes your news. She may be horrified-she may be jealous.’
他在所有事情上都非常喜欢“古老的方式”。伊莎贝尔觉得这是他优美、安静、真诚的音符之一。 “我觉得，除非你告诉她，否则你不会知道自己是否成功，”她说。 “你必须看看她如何看待你的消息。她可能会感到害怕——她可能会嫉妒。

‘I’m not afraid of that; she’s too fond of you on her own account. I should like to leave her in the dark a little longer-to see if it will come into her head that if we’re not engaged we ought to be.’
‘我不怕这个；她太喜欢你了。我想让她在黑暗中再待一会儿——看看她是否会想到，如果我们没有订婚，我们就应该订婚。

Isabel was impressed by Osmond’s artistic, the plastic view, as it somehow appeared, of Pansy’s innocence-her own appreciation of it being more anxiously moral. She was perhaps not the less pleased when he told her a few days later that he had communicated the fact to his daughter, who had made such a pretty little speech-”Oh, then I shall have a beautiful sister!’
伊莎贝尔对奥斯蒙德对潘西纯真的艺术和塑料观点印象深刻——她自己对它的欣赏更加令人焦虑地道德化。几天后，当他告诉她，他已将这一事实传达给他的女儿时，她也许并没有因此而感到高兴，他的女儿发表了一段如此漂亮的演讲：“哦，那么我将有一个美丽的妹妹！”

She was neither surprised nor alarmed; she had not cried, as he expected.
她既不惊讶也不惊慌。正如他所料，她没有哭。

‘Perhaps she had guessed it,’ said Isabel.
“也许她已经猜到了，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘Don’t say that; I should be disgusted if I believed that. I thought it would be just a little shock; but the way she took it proves that her good manners are paramount. That’s also what I wished. You shall see for yourself; to-morrow she shall make you her congratulations in person.’
‘别这么说；如果我相信这一点，我会感到厌恶。我以为这只是一点点震惊；但她的态度证明她的良好举止是至关重要的。这也是我所希望的。你将会亲眼看到；明天她将亲自向你表示祝贺。

The meeting, on the morrow, took place at the Countess Gemini’s, whither Pansy had been conducted by her father, who knew that Isabel was to come in the afternoon to return a visit made her by the Countess on learning that they were to become sisters-in-law. Calling at Casa Touchett the visitor had not found Isabel at home; but after our young woman had been ushered into the Countess’s drawing-room Pansy arrived to say that her aunt would presently appear. Pansy was spending the day with that lady, who thought her of an age to begin to learn how to carry herself in company. It was Isabel’s view that the little girl might have given lessons in deportment to her relative, and nothing could have justified this conviction more than the manner in which Pansy acquitted herself while they waited together for the Countess. Her father’s decision, the year before, had finally been to send her back to the convent to receive the last graces, and Madame Catherine had evidently carried out her theory that Pansy was to be fitted for the great world.
第二天的会面在双子座伯爵夫人家举行，潘西被她父亲带到那里，父亲知道伊莎贝尔下午会回来拜访伯爵夫人，因为得知她们将成为姐妹。 -姻亲。访客到卡萨图切特拜访时，并没有发现伊莎贝尔在家。但当我们的年轻女子被带进伯爵夫人的客厅后，潘西过来告诉她，她的姨妈很快就会出现。潘西和那位女士一起度过了这一天，她认为她已经到了开始学习如何在公司里表现自己的年纪了。伊莎贝尔认为，这个小女孩可能给她的亲戚上了礼仪课，没有什么比潘西在他们一起等待伯爵夫人时表现得无罪的方式更能证明这一信念了。一年前，她父亲的决定最终是将她送回修道院接受最后的恩宠，而凯瑟琳夫人显然已经执行了她的理论，即潘西将适合这个伟大的世界。

‘Papa has told me that you’ve kindly consented to marry him,’ said this excellent woman’s pupil. ‘It’s very delightful; I think you’ll suit very well.’
“爸爸告诉我，你已经同意嫁给他了，”这位优秀女士的学生说道。 ‘这非常令人愉快；我认为你会很适合。

‘You think I shall suit you?’
“你觉得我适合你吗？”

‘You’ll suit me beautifully; but what I mean is that you and papa will suit each other. You’re both so quiet and so serious. You’re not so quiet as he-or even as Madame Merle; but you’re more quiet than many others. He should not for instance have a wife like my aunt. She’s always in motion, in agitation-to-day especially; you’ll see when she comes in. They told us at the convent it was wrong to judge our elders, but I suppose there’s no harm if we judge them favourably. You’ll be a delightful companion for papa.’
‘你会很适合我；但我的意思是你和爸爸很合适。你们都很安静，也很严肃。你不像他——甚至不像梅尔夫人那么安静；但你比其他许多人更安静。例如，他不应该有一个像我姨妈这样的妻子。她总是在运动，尤其是在今天。等她进来你就会明白了。修道院里的人告诉我们，评判我们的长辈是错误的，但我想，如果我们对他们做出有利的评价，也没什么坏处。你会成为爸爸的一个令人愉快的伴侣。

‘For you too, I hope,’ Isabel said.
“我希望你也一样，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘I speak first of him on purpose. I’ve told you already what I myself think of you; I liked you from the first. I admire you so much that I think it will be a good fortune to have you always before me. You’ll be my model; I shall try to imitate you though I’m afraid it will be very feeble. I’m very glad for papa-he needed something more than me. Without you I don’t see how he could have got it. You’ll be my stepmother, but we mustn’t use that word. They’re always said to be cruel; but I don’t think you’ll ever so much as pinch or even push me. I’m not afraid at all.’
“我故意首先谈到他。我已经告诉过你我自己对你的看法了；我从一开始就喜欢你。我非常钦佩你，我想你永远在我面前将是一种幸运。你将成为我的模特；我会尽力模仿你，尽管我担心这会很无力。我为爸爸感到非常高兴——他比我更需要一些东西。没有你，我不知道他怎么能得到它。你会成为我的继母，但我们不能用这个词。人们总是说他们很残忍；但我认为你不会捏我，甚至推我。我一点也不害怕。

‘My good little Pansy,’ said Isabel gently, ‘I shall be ever so kind to you.’ A vague, inconsequent vision of her coming in some odd way to need it had intervened with the effect of a chill.
“我的好小潘西，”伊莎贝尔温柔地说，“我会对你很好的。” 一种模糊的、不连贯的幻象让她以某种奇怪的方式需要它，这种幻象伴随着一阵寒意。

‘Very well then, I’ve nothing to fear,’ the child returned with her note of prepared promptitude. What teaching she had had, it seemed to suggest-or what penalties for non-performance she dreaded!
“那好吧，我没什么可害怕的，”孩子带着她准备好的迅速的语气回答道。这似乎暗示着她接受过什么样的教育——或者说她害怕因不表现而受到什么样的惩罚！

Her description of her aunt had not been incorrect; the Countess Gemini was further than ever from having folded her wings. She entered the room with a flutter through the air and kissed Isabel first on the forehead and then on each cheek as if according to some ancient prescribed rite. She drew the visitor to a sofa and, looking at her with a variety of turns of the head, began to talk very much as if, seated brush in hand before an easel, she were applying a series of considered touches to a composition of figures already sketched in. ‘If you expect me to congratulate you I must beg you to excuse me. I don’t suppose you care if I do or not; I believe you’re supposed not to care-through being so clever-for all sorts of ordinary things. But I care myself if I tell fibs; I never tell them unless there’s something rather good to be gained. I don’t see what’s to be gained with you—especially as you wouldn’t believe me. I don’t make professions any more than I make paper flowers or flouncey lampshades-I don’t know how. My lampshades would be sure to take fire, my roses and my fibs to be larger than life. I’m very glad for my own sake that you’re to marry Osmond; but I won’t pretend I’m glad for yours. You’re very brilliant-you know that’s the way you’re always spoken of; you’re an heiress and very good-looking and original, not banal; so it’s a good thing to have you in the family. Our family’s very good, you know; Osmond will have told you that; and my mother was rather distinguished-she was called the American Corinne. But we’re dreadfully fallen, I think, and perhaps you’ll pick us up. I’ve great confidence in you; there are ever so many things I want to talk to you about. I never congratulate any girl on marrying; I think they ought to make it somehow not quite so awful a steel trap. I suppose Pansy oughtn’t to hear all this; but that’s what she has come to me for-to acquire the tone of society. There’s no harm in her knowing what horrors she may be in for. When first I got an idea that my brother had designs on you I thought of writing to you, to recommend you, in the strongest terms, not to listen to him. Then I thought it would be disloyal, and I hate anything of that kind. Besides, as I say, I was enchanted for myself; and after all I’m very selfish. By the way, you won’t respect me, not one little mite, and we shall never be intimate. I should like it, but you won’t. Some day, all the same, we shall be better friends than you will believe at first. My husband will come and see you, though, as you probably know, he’s on no sort of terms with Osmond. He’s very fond of going to see pretty women, but I’m not afraid of you. In the first place I don’t care what he does. In the second, you won’t care a straw for him; he won’t be a bit, at any time, your affair, and, stupid as he is, he’ll see you’re not his. Some day, if you can stand it, I’ll tell you all about him. Do you think my niece ought to go out of the room? Pansy, go and practise a little in my boudoir.’
她对姨妈的描述并没有错；她对姨妈的描述并没有错。双子座伯爵夫人比以往任何时候都更远离折叠她的翅膀。她在空中飘飘然地走进房间，先吻了伊莎贝尔的额头，然后吻了两颊，就像按照某种古老的规定仪式一样。她把来访者拉到沙发上，用各种不同的方式看着她，开始说话，就好像她坐在画架前，手里拿着画笔，正在对人物的构图进行一系列深思熟虑的修饰。已经勾画好了。“如果你希望我祝贺你，我必须请求你原谅。”我想你并不关心我是否关心；我相信你不应该——尽管你很聪明——关心各种普通的事情。但如果我撒谎，我会关心自己；我从不告诉他们，除非有什么好东西可以得到。我看不出你能得到什么——尤其是你不相信我。我不做职业，就像我不做纸花或荷叶边灯罩一样——我不知道如何做。我的灯罩一定会着火，我的玫瑰和我的谎言一定会比生命更伟大。为了我自己，我很高兴你要嫁给奥斯蒙德；但我不会假装我为你感到高兴。你非常聪明——你知道人们总是这样谈论你；你是一位女继承人，非常漂亮，很有创意，不平庸；所以有你在家里是一件好事。你知道，我们的家庭非常好；奥斯蒙德会告诉你这一点；我的母亲相当杰出——她被称为美国的科琳娜。但我想，我们已经严重跌倒了，也许你会扶起我们。我对你很有信心；我有很多事情想和你谈谈。 我从不祝贺任何女孩结婚；我认为他们应该以某种方式把它变成一个不那么可怕的钢制陷阱。我想潘西不应该听到这一切；但这就是她来找我的目的——了解社会的基调。她知道自己可能面临什么样的恐怖，这没什么坏处。当我第一次意识到我哥哥对你有阴谋时，我想写信给你，以最强烈的措辞建议你不要听他的。然后我认为这是不忠诚的，我讨厌任何类似的事情。此外，正如我所说，我对自己着迷。毕竟我很自私。顺便说一句，你不会尊重我，哪怕是一个小东西，我们永远不会亲密。我应该喜欢它，但你不会。尽管如此，总有一天，我们会成为比你一开始想象的更好的朋友。我丈夫会来看你，不过，你可能知道，他和奥斯蒙德没有任何关系。他很喜欢看漂亮女人，但我不怕你。首先我不在乎他做什么。在第二种情况下，你不会关心他；他在任何时候都不会与你有任何关系，而且，尽管他很愚蠢，他也会发现你不是他的。有一天，如果你能忍受的话，我会告诉你关于他的一切。你认为我的侄女应该走出房间吗？ Pansy，去我的闺房里练习一下吧。’

‘Let her stay, please,’ said Isabel. ‘I would rather hear nothing that Pansy may not!’
“请让她留下来，”伊莎贝尔说。 “我宁愿听到任何潘西可能听不到的声音！”

Chapter 36
第36章

One afternoon of the autumn of 1876, toward dusk, a young man of pleasing appearance rang at the door of a small apartment on the third floor of an old Roman house. On its being opened he enquired for Madame Merle; whereupon the servant, a neat, plain woman, with a French face and a lady’s maid’s manner, ushered him into a diminutive drawing-room and requested the favour of his name. ‘Mr. Edward Rosier,’ said the young man, who sat down to wait till his hostess should appear.
1876年秋天的一个下午，黄昏时分，一位相貌英俊的年轻人敲响了一栋古罗马房屋三楼一间小公寓的门。打开后，他询问梅尔夫人的情况。于是，仆人——一位整洁朴素的女人，有着法国人的面孔和女仆的举止——把他领进一间小客厅，并请求他的名字。 '先生。爱德华·罗齐尔，”年轻人说道，他坐下来等待女主人出现。

The reader will perhaps not have forgotten that Mr. Rosier was an ornament of the American circle in Paris, but it may also be remembered that he sometimes vanished from its horizon. He had spent a portion of several winters at Pau, and as he was a gentleman of constituted habits he might have continued for years to pay his annual visit to this charming resort. In the summer of 1876, however, an incident befell him which changed the current not only of his thoughts, but of his customary sequences. He passed a month in the Upper Engadine and encountered at Saint Moritz a charming young girl. To this little person he began to pay, on the spot, particular attention: she struck him as exactly the household angel he had long been looking for. He was never precipitate, he was nothing if not discreet, so he forbore for the present to declare his passion; but it seemed to him when they parted-the young lady to go down into Italy and her admirer to proceed to Geneva, where he was under bonds to join other friends that he should be romantically wretched if he were not to see her again. The simplest way to do so was to go in the autumn to Rome, where Miss Osmond was domiciled with her family. Mr. Rosier started on his pilgrimage to the Italian capital and reached it on the first of November. It was a pleasant thing to do, but for the young man there was a strain of the heroic in the enterprise. He might expose himself, unseasoned, to the poison of the Roman air, which in November lay, notoriously, much in wait. Fortune, however, favours the brave; and this adventurer, who took three grains of quinine a day, had at the end of a month no cause to deplore his temerity. He had made to a certain extent good use of his time; he had devoted it in vain to finding a flaw in Pansy Osmond’s composition. She was admirably finished; she had had the last touch; she was really a consummate piece. He thought of her in amorous meditation a good deal as he might have thought of a Dresden-china shepherdess. Miss Osmond, indeed, in the bloom of her juvenility, had a hint of the rococo which Rosier, whose taste was predominantly for that manner, could not fail to appreciate. That he esteemed the productions of comparatively frivolous periods would have been apparent from the attention he bestowed upon Madame Merle’s drawing-room, which, although furnished with specimens of every style, was especially rich in articles of the last two centuries. He had immediately put a glass into one eye and looked round; and then ‘By Jove, she has some jolly good things!’ he had yearningly murmured. The room was small and densely filled with furniture; it gave an impression of faded silk and little statuettes which might totter if one moved. Rosier got up and wandered about with his careful tread, bending over the tables charged with knick-knacks and the cushions embossed with princely arms. When Madame Merle came in she found him standing before the fireplace with his nose very close to the great lace flounce attached to the damask cover of the mantel. He had lifted it delicately, as if he were smelling it.
读者也许不会忘记罗齐尔先生是巴黎美国圈子的装饰品，但也可能记得他有时会从美国圈子的地平线消失。他在波城度过了几个冬天的一部分，由于他是一位习惯已成的绅士，他可能会继续多年来每年都会访问这个迷人的度假胜地。然而，1876 年夏天，一件事情发生在他身上，这不仅改变了他的思想潮流，也改变了他的习惯顺序。他在上恩嘎丁度过了一个月，并在圣莫里茨遇到了一位迷人的年轻女孩。他立即开始对这个小人物给予特别的关注：他觉得她正是他一直在寻找的家庭天使。他从不鲁莽，如果不谨慎，他就什么都不是，所以他暂时没有表白他的激情；但在他看来，当他们分别时——这位年轻的女士要去意大利，而她的仰慕者要去日内瓦，他在那里与其他朋友会合，如果他不能再见到她，他就会在爱情上感到悲惨。最简单的方法就是秋天去罗马，奥斯蒙德小姐和她的家人居住在那里。罗齐尔先生开始了前往意大利首都的朝圣之旅，并于 11 月 1 日抵达意大利首都。这是一件令人愉快的事情，但对于这个年轻人来说，有一种事业上的英雄气概。他可能会在未经训练的情况下暴露在罗马空气的毒气中，而众所周知，这种毒气在十一月就已蓄势待发。然而，命运眷顾勇敢的人。这位每天服用三粒奎宁的冒险家，到了月底也没有理由为自己的鲁莽行为感到遗憾。 他在一定程度上充分利用了自己的时间。他徒劳地致力于寻找潘西·奥斯蒙德作品中的缺陷。她令人钦佩地完成了。她已经进行了最后一次接触；她确实是一件完美的作品。他在多情的冥想中想起她，就像他想起德累斯顿瓷的牧羊女一样。事实上，正值青春年华的奥斯蒙德小姐有一丝洛可可风格，罗齐尔的品味主要是这种风格，他不可能不欣赏这一点。从他对梅尔夫人客厅的重视就可以看出他对相对轻浮时期的作品的重视，尽管客厅里摆满了各种风格的标本，但过去两个世纪的物品尤其丰富。他立即将玻璃杯放入一只眼睛中，环顾四周。然后他满怀渴望地低声说道：“天哪，她有一些好东西！”房间很小，家具却密密麻麻的。它给人一种褪色的丝绸和小雕像的感觉，如果有人移动，它们可能会摇晃。罗齐尔站起身来，小心翼翼地走来走去，俯身在摆满小摆设的桌子和印有王子纹章的垫子上。当梅尔夫人进来时，她发现他站在壁炉前，鼻子非常靠近壁炉架锦缎罩上的巨大蕾丝荷叶边。他小心翼翼地举起它，仿佛在闻它的味道。

‘It’s old Venetian,’ she said; ‘it’s rather good.’
“这是古老的威尼斯人，”她说。 “相当不错。”

‘It’s too good for this; you ought to wear it.’
‘这太好了；你应该戴它。

‘They tell me you have some better in Paris, in the same situation.’
“他们告诉我，在同样的情况下，巴黎有更好的。”

‘Ah, but I can’t wear mine,’ smiled the visitor.
“啊，但我不能穿我的，”来访者微笑着说。

‘I don’t see why you shouldn’t! I’ve better lace than that to wear.’
“我不明白你为什么不应该这样做！我有比那更好的蕾丝。

His eyes wandered, lingeringly, round the room again. ‘You’ve some very good things.’
他的目光再次在房间里徘徊，徘徊不去。 “你有一些非常好的东西。”

‘Yes, but I hate them.’
“是的，但我讨厌他们。”

‘Do you want to get rid of them?’ the young man quickly asked.
“你想除掉他们吗？”年轻人连忙问道。

‘No, it’s good to have something to hate: one works it off!’
“不，有一些讨厌的东西是件好事：有人能解决它！”

‘I love my things,’ said Mr. Rosier as he sat there flushed with all his recognitions. ‘But it’s not about them, nor about yours, that I came to talk to you.’
“我爱我的东西，”罗齐尔先生坐在那里说道，他因所有的认识而涨红了脸。 “但我来和你说话不是为了他们，也不是为了你。”

He paused a moment and then, with greater softness: ‘I care more for Miss Osmond than for all the bibelots in Europe!’
他停顿了一下，然后更加温柔地说道：“我更关心奥斯蒙德小姐，而不是欧洲所有的毕贝洛人！”

Madame Merle opened wide eyes. ‘Did you come to tell me that?’
梅尔夫人睁大了眼睛。 “你是来告诉我这个的吗？”

‘I came to ask your advice.’
“我是来征求你的意见的。”

She looked at him with a friendly frown, stroking her chin with her large white hand. ‘A man in love, you know, doesn’t ask advice.’
她友好地皱着眉头看着他，用雪白的大手抚摸着下巴。 “你知道，恋爱中的男人不会征求建议。”

‘Why not, if he’s in a difficult position? That’s often the case with a man in love. I’ve been in love before, and I know. But never so much as this time-really never so much. I should like particularly to know what you think of my prospects. I’m afraid that for Mr. Osmond I’m not-well, a real collector’s piece.’
“如果他处境​​困难，为什么不呢？恋爱中的男人常常会遇到这样的情况。我以前谈过恋爱，我知道。但从来没有像这一次这样——真的从来没有这么多。我特别想知道您对我的前景有何看法。恐怕对于奥斯蒙德先生来说，我不太好，是一件真正的收藏品。

‘Do you wish me to intercede?’ Madame Merle asked with her fine arms folded and her handsome mouth drawn up to the left.
“你希望我调解吗？”梅尔夫人交叉着纤细的双臂，英俊的嘴巴向左翘起，问道。

‘If you could say a good word for me I should be greatly obliged. There will be no use in my troubling Miss Osmond unless I have good reason to believe her father will consent.’
“如果你能为我说几句好话，我将不胜感激。除非我有充分的理由相信她的父亲会同意，否则我那令人不安的奥斯蒙德小姐是没有用的。

‘You’re very considerate; that’s in your favour. But you assume in rather an off-hand way that I think you a prize.’
‘你很体贴；这对你有利。但你以一种相当随意的方式认为我认为你是一个奖品。

‘You’ve been very kind to me,’ said the young man. ‘That’s why I came.’
年轻人说：“你对我很好。” “这就是我来的原因。”

‘I’m always kind to people who have good Louis Quatorze. It’s very rare now, and there’s no telling what one may get by it.’ With which the left-hand corner of Madame Merle’s mouth gave expression to the joke.
“我总是对那些拥有优秀路易斯·奎托兹的人很友善。现在已经很少见了，谁也说不准会得到什么。”梅尔夫人的左嘴角露出了玩笑的表情。

But he looked, in spite of it, literally apprehensive and consistently strenuous. ‘Ah, I thought you liked me for myself!’
但尽管如此，他看起来确实很忧虑，而且一直很紧张。 “啊，我还以为你喜欢我呢！”

‘I like you very much; but, if you please, we won’t analyze. Pardon me if I seem patronizing, but I think you a perfect little gentleman. I must tell you, however, that I’ve not the marrying of Pansy Osmond.’
'我很喜欢你;但是，如果您愿意的话，我们不会分析。如果我显得居高临下，请原谅我，但我认为你是一位完美的小绅士。然而，我必须告诉你，我并没有与潘西·奥斯蒙德结婚。

‘I didn’t suppose that. But you’ve seemed to me intimate with her family, and I thought you might have influence.’
” “我没想到。但在我看来，你和她的家人很亲密，我认为你可能有影响力。”

Madame Merle considered. ‘Whom do you call her family?’
梅尔夫人考虑道。 “你称谁为她的家人？”

‘Why, her father; and-how do you say it in English?-her bellemere.’
‘哎呀，她的父亲；还有-你用英语怎么说？-她的贝勒米尔。

‘Mr. Osmond’s her father, certainly; but his wife can scarcely be termed a member of her family. Mrs. Osmond has nothing to do with marrying her.’ ‘I’m sorry for that,’ said Rosier with an amiable sigh of good faith. ‘I think Mrs. Osmond would favour me.’
'先生。奥斯蒙德当然是她的父亲；但他的妻子几乎不能被称为她的家庭成员。奥斯蒙德夫人与娶她无关。 “我想奥斯蒙德夫人会青睐我。”

‘Very likely-if her husband doesn’t.’
“很有可能——如果她丈夫不这么做的话。”

He raised his eyebrows. ‘Does she take the opposite line from him?’
他扬起了眉毛。 “她的立场与他相反吗？”

‘In everything. They think quite differently.’
'一切。他们的想法完全不同。

‘Well,’ said Rosier, ‘I’m sorry for that; but it’s none of my business.
“好吧，”罗齐尔说，“我对此感到抱歉；但这不关我的事。

She’s very fond of Pansy.’
她非常喜欢潘西。

‘Yes, she’s very fond of Pansy.’
“是的，她非常喜欢潘西。”

‘And Pansy has a great affection for her. She has told me how she loves her as if she were her own mother.’
‘潘西对她怀有深厚的感情。她告诉我她是多么爱她，就像爱她自己的母亲一样。”

‘You must, after all, have had some very intimate talk with the poor child,’ said Madame Merle. ‘Have you declared your sentiments?’
“毕竟，你一定和这个可怜的孩子进行过一些非常亲密的交谈，”梅尔夫人说。 “你表态了吗？”

‘Never!’ cried Rosier, lifting his neatly-gloved hand. ‘Never till I’ve assured myself of those of the parents.’
“决不！”罗齐尔举起戴着整齐手套的手喊道。 “除非我向自己父母保证，否则不会。”

‘You always wait for that? You’ve excellent principles; you observe the proprieties.’
‘你总是在等这个吗？你有优秀的原则；你遵守礼节。

‘I think you’re laughing at me,’ the young man murmured, dropping back in his chair and feeling his small moustache. ‘I didn’t expect that of you, Madame Merle.’
“我觉得你在嘲笑我，”年轻人低声说道，靠在椅子上，摸着他的小胡子。 “我没想到你会这样，梅尔夫人。”

She shook her head calmly, like a person who saw things as she saw them. ‘You don’t do me justice. I think your conduct in excellent taste and the best you could adopt. Yes, that’s what I think.’
她平静地摇了摇头，就像一个见事如故的人。 ‘你没有公正地对待我。我认为你的行为品味很高，是你可以采用的最好的。是的，我就是这么想的。

‘I wouldn’t agitate her-only to agitate her; I love her too much for that,’ said Ned Rosier.
“我不会激怒她——只是激怒她；我太爱她了，”内德·罗齐尔说。

‘I’m glad, after all, that you’ve told me,’ Madame Merle went on.
“毕竟，我很高兴你告诉了我，”梅尔夫人继续说道。

‘Leave it to me a little; I think I can help you.’
‘稍微交给我吧；我想我可以帮助你。

‘I said you were the person to come to!’ her visitor cried with prompt elation.
“我说过你就是该来的人！”她的访客立即兴高采烈地喊道。

‘You were very clever,’ Madame Merle returned more dryly. ‘When I say I can help you I mean once assuming your cause to be good. Let us think a little if it is.’
“你很聪明，”梅尔夫人冷冷地回答道。 “当我说我可以帮助你时，我的意思是假设你的事业是好的。如果是的话，让我们想一下。

‘I’m awfully decent, you know,’ said Rosier earnestly. ‘I won’t say I’ve no faults, but I’ll say I’ve no vices.’
“你知道，我非常正派，”罗齐尔认真地说。 “我不会说我没有缺点，但我会说我没有恶习。”

‘All that’s negative, and it always depends, also, on what people call vices. What’s the positive side? What’s the virtuous? What have you got besides your Spanish lace and your Dresden teacups?’
“所有这些都是负面的，而且它总是取决于人们所说的恶习。积极的一面是什么？什么是有德行？除了西班牙蕾丝和德累斯顿茶杯之外，你还有什么？

‘I’ve a comfortable little fortune-about forty thousand francs a year. With the talent I have for arranging, we can live beautifully on such an income.’
“我有一笔可观的小财产——每年大约四万法郎。以我的编曲天赋，我们可以靠这样的收入过上美好的生活。”

‘Beautifully, no. Sufficiently, yes. Even that depends on where you live.’
‘很好，不。足够了，是的。即使这也取决于你住在哪里。

‘Well, in Paris. I would undertake it in Paris.’
“嗯，在巴黎。我会在巴黎进行。

Madame Merle’s mouth rose to the left. ‘It wouldn’t be famous; you’d have to make use of the teacups, and they’d get broken.’
梅尔夫人的嘴角向左翘起。 ‘它不会出名；你必须使用茶杯，而且它们会被打破。

‘We don’t want to be famous. If Miss Osmond should have everything pretty it would be enough. When one’s as pretty as she one can afford-well, quite cheap faience. She ought never to wear anything but muslin-without the sprig,’ said Rosier reflectively.
‘我们不想出名。如果奥斯蒙德小姐一切都漂亮那就足够了。当一个人像她一样漂亮时，人们可以买得起——相当便宜的彩陶。她不应该穿除了平纹细布以外的任何衣服——没有小枝，”罗齐尔若有所思地说。

‘Wouldn’t you even allow her the sprig? She’d be much obliged to you at any rate for that theory.’
‘你连小树枝都不让给她吗？无论如何，她都会非常感谢你的这个理论。

‘It’s the correct one, I assure you; and I’m sure she’d enter into it. She understands all that; that’s why I love her.’
“我向你保证，这是正确的；我确信她会参与其中。这一切她都明白；这就是我爱她的原因。

‘She’s a very good little girl, and most tidy-also extremely graceful.
“她是一个非常好的小女孩，而且非常整洁，而且非常优雅。

But her father, to the best of my belief, can give her nothing.’
但据我所知，她的父亲无法给她任何东西。

Rosier scarce demurred. ‘I don’t in the least desire that he should. But I may remark, all the same, that he lives like a rich man.’
罗齐尔没有提出异议。 “我一点也不希望他这么做。但我仍然可以说，他生活得像个富人。

‘The money’s his wife’s; she brought him a large fortune.’
“钱是他妻子的；她给他带来了一大笔财富。

‘Mrs. Osmond then is very fond of her stepdaughter; she may do something.’
'太太。奥斯蒙德非常喜欢她的继女。她可能会做点什么。

‘For a love-sick swain you have your eyes about you!’ Madame Merle exclaimed with a laugh.
“对于一个相思病的情人来说，你的眼睛总是盯着你自己！”梅尔夫人笑着喊道。

‘I esteem a dot very much. I can do without it, but I esteem it.’
‘我非常尊重一个点。我可以没有它，但我尊重它。

‘Mrs. Osmond,’ Madame Merle went on, ‘will probably prefer to keep her money for her own children.’
'太太。奥斯蒙德，”梅尔夫人继续说道，“可能更愿意把钱留给自己的孩子。”

‘Her own children? Surely she has none.’
‘她自己的孩子？她肯定没有。

‘She may have yet. She had a poor little boy, who died two years ago, six months after his birth. Others therefore may come.’
“她可能还没有。她有一个可怜的小男孩，两年前出生六个月后就去世了。因此其他人可能会来。

‘I hope they will, if it will make her happy. She’s a splendid woman.’ Madame Merle failed to burst into speech. ‘Ah, about her there’s much to be said. Splendid as you like! We’ve not exactly made out that you’re a parti. The absence of vices is hardly a source of income.’
“我希望他们会这么做，如果这能让她高兴的话。”她是一位出色的女人。”梅尔夫人没能开口说话。 ‘啊，关于她，有很多话要说。精彩如你所愿！我们还没有完全确定您是其中的一员。没有恶习很难成为收入来源。

‘Pardon me, I think it may be,’ said Rosier quite lucidly. ‘You’ll be a touching couple, living on your innocence!’ ‘I think you underrate me.’
“请原谅，我想可能是这样，”罗齐尔非常清楚地说道。 “你们会成为一对感人的情侣，依靠自己的纯真生活！”“我认为你低估了我。”

‘You’re not so innocent as that? Seriously,’ said Madame Merle, ‘of course forty thousand francs a year and a nice character are a combination to be considered. I don’t say it’s to be jumped at, but there might be a worse offer. Mr. Osmond, however, will probably incline to believe he can do better.’
‘你不是那么无辜吗？说真的，”梅尔夫人说，“当然，年薪四万法郎和良好的性格是值得考虑的组合。我并不是说这是值得欣喜的，但可能会有更糟糕的报价。然而，奥斯蒙德先生可能会倾向于相信他可以做得更好。

‘He can do so perhaps; but what can his daughter do? She can’t do better than marry the man she loves. For she does, you know,’ Rosier added eagerly.
“他也许可以这样做；但他的女儿能做什么呢？她没有比嫁给她爱的男人更好的了。因为她确实这么做了，你知道，”罗齐​​尔急切地补充道。

‘She does-I know it.’
“她确实——我知道。”

‘Ah,’ cried the young man, ‘I said you were the person to come to.’
“啊，”年轻人喊道，“我说过你就是该来的人。”

‘But I don’t know how you know it, if you haven’t asked her,’ Madame Merle went on.
“但如果你没有问过她，我不知道你是怎么知道的，”梅尔夫人继续说道。

‘In such a case there’s no need of asking and telling; as you say, we’re an innocent couple. How did you know it?’
‘在这种情况下，无需询问和告知；正如你所说，我们是一对无辜的情侣。你怎么知道的？

‘I who am not innocent? By being very crafty. Leave it to me; I’ll find out for you.’
‘我谁不无辜？非常狡猾。交给我;我会帮你找出答案的。

Rosier got up and stood smoothing his hat. ‘You say that rather coldly.
罗齐尔站起身来，整理着他的帽子。 ‘你这话说得相当冷酷。

Don’t simply find out how it is, but try to make it as it should be.’
不要简单地找出它是怎样的，而要努力让它成为它应该的样子。

‘I’ll do my best. I’ll try to make the most of your advantages.’
'我将尽我所能。我会尽力充分利用你的优势。

‘Thank you so very much. Meanwhile then I’ll say a word to Mrs.
'非常感谢你。与此同时，我会跟夫人说几句话。

Osmond.’
奥斯蒙德。”

‘Gardez-vous-en bien!’ And Madame Merle was on her feet. ‘Don’t set her going, or you’ll spoil everything.’
“Gardez-vous-en bien！”梅尔夫人站了起来。 “别让她这么做，否则你会毁了一切。”

Rosier gazed into his hat; he wondered whether his hostess had been after all the right person to come to. ‘I don’t think I understand you. I’m an old friend of Mrs. Osmond, and I think she would like me to succeed.’
罗齐尔凝视着他的帽子。他想知道他的女主人到底是不是合适的人选。 ‘我想我不理解你。我是奥斯蒙德夫人的老朋友，我想她希望我成功。

‘Be an old friend as much as you like; the more old friends she has the better, for she doesn’t get on very well with some of her new. But don’t for the present try to make her take up the cudgels for you. Her husband may have other views, and, as a person who wishes her well, I advise you not to multiply points of difference between them.’
“只要你愿意，就可以成为老朋友；她的老朋友越多越好，因为她和一些新朋友相处得不太好。但目前不要试图让她为你拿起棍棒。她的丈夫可能有不同的看法，作为一个希望她幸福的人，我建议你不要在他们之间增加分歧。

Poor Rosier’s face assumed an expression of alarm; a suit for the hand of Pansy Osmond was even a more complicated business than his taste for proper transitions had allowed. But the extreme good sense which he concealed under a surface suggesting that of a careful owner’s ‘best set’ came to his assistance. ‘I don’t see that I’m bound to consider Mr. Osmond so very much!’ he exclaimed.
可怜的罗齐尔脸上露出惊恐的表情。为潘西·奥斯蒙德设计一套西装甚至比他对适当过渡的品味所允许的还要复杂。但他隐藏在表面之下的极其良好的判断力，表明他是一个细心的主人的“最好的装备”，这对他有所帮助。 “我不认为我一定会如此考虑奥斯蒙德先生！”他惊呼道。

‘No, but you should consider her. You say you’re an old friend. Would you make her suffer?’
“不，但你应该考虑一下她。你说你是老朋友了。你会让她受苦吗？

‘Not for the world.’
“不适合全世界。”

‘Then be very careful, and let the matter alone till I’ve taken a few soundings.’
“那么要非常小心，先别管这件事，直到我进行了几次探测。”

‘Let the matter alone, dear Madame Merle? Remember that I’m in love.’
“别管这件事了，亲爱的梅尔夫人？请记住，我恋爱了。”

‘Oh, you won’t burn up! Why did you come to me, if you’re not to heed what I say?’
‘哦，你不会烧起来的！如果你不听我的话，为什么还要来找我呢？

‘You’re very kind; I’ll be very good,’ the young man promised. ‘But I’m afraid Mr. Osmond’s pretty hard,’ he added in his mild voice as he went to the door.
'你好亲切;我会做得很好，”年轻人保证道。 “但恐怕奥斯蒙德先生很难相处，”他一边向门口走去，一边用温和的声音补充道。

Madame Merle gave a short laugh. ‘It has been said before. But his wife isn’t easy either.’
梅尔夫人短促地笑了一声。 ‘之前已经说过了。但他的妻子也不容易。”

‘Ah, she’s a splendid woman!’ Ned Rosier repeated, for departure.
“啊，她是一位出色的女人！”内德·罗齐尔重复道，准备离开。

He resolved that his conduct should be worthy of an aspirant who was already a model of discretion; but he saw nothing in any pledge he had given Madame Merle that made it improper he should keep himself in spirits by an occasional visit to Miss Osmond’s home. He reflected constantly on what his adviser had said to him, and turned over in his mind the impression of her rather circumspect tone. He had gone to her de confiance, as they put it in Paris; but it was possible he had been precipitate. He found difficulty in thinking of himself as rash-he had incurred this reproach so rarely; but it certainly was true that he had known Madame Merle only for the last month, and that his thinking her a delightful woman was not, when one came to look into it, a reason for assuming that she would be eager to push Pansy Osmond into his arms, gracefully arranged as these members might be to receive her. She had indeed shown him benevolence, and she was a person of consideration among the girl’s people, where she had a rather striking appearance (Rosier had more than once wondered how she managed it) of being intimate without being familiar. But possibly he had exaggerated these advantages. There was no particular reason why she should take trouble for him; a charming woman was charming to every one, and Rosier felt rather a fool when he thought of his having appealed to her on the ground that she had distinguished him. Very likely-though she had appeared to say it in joke-she was really only thinking of his bibelots. Had it come into her head that he might offer her two or three of the gems of his collection? If she would only help him to marry Miss Osmond he would present her with his whole museum. He could hardly say so to her outright; it would seem too gross a bribe. But he should like her to believe it.
他决心自己的行为应该配得上一个已经是谨慎典范的有志者。但他认为，他向梅尔夫人作出的任何承诺中，没有任何内容表明他偶尔去奥斯蒙德小姐的家里保持精神状态是不合适的。他不断地回想顾问对他说的话，并在脑海中回想她相当谨慎的语气的印象。正如巴黎人所说，他向她倾诉了。但也有可能他太鲁莽了。他发现自己很难认为自己鲁莽——他很少受​​到这种责备。但确实，他只认识梅尔夫人上个月，而且他认为她是一位令人愉快的女人，当人们开始了解这一点时，这并不是假设她会急于将潘西·奥斯蒙德推入困境的理由。他的手臂优雅地排列着，就像这些成员可能会迎接她一样。她确实对他表现出了仁慈，而且在女孩子里是个受人尊敬的人，她的外表颇为引人注目（罗齐尔不止一次想知道她是怎么做到的），亲密而不熟悉。但他可能夸大了这些优势。她并没有什么特别的理由要为他费心。一个迷人的女人对每个人来说都是迷人的，当罗齐尔想到他因为她使他与众不同而吸引了她时，他觉得自己很傻。很可能——尽管她似乎是在开玩笑——她实际上只想着他的比贝洛特。她是否想过他可能会向她赠送他收藏中的两三件宝石？如果她愿意帮助他娶奥斯蒙德小姐，他就会把他的整个博物馆送给她。他很难直接对她这么说。这似乎是一种太严重的贿赂行为。 但他应该希望她相信这一点。

It was with these thoughts that he went again to Mrs. Osmond’s, Mrs. Osmond having an ‘evening’-she had taken the Thursday of each week when his presence could be accounted for on general principles of civility. The object of Mr. Rosier’s well-regulated affection dwelt in a high house in the very heart of Rome; a dark and massive structure overlooking a sunny piazzetta in the neighbourhood of the Farnese Palace. In a palace, too, little Pansy lived-a palace by Roman measure, but a dungeon to poor Rosier’s apprehensive mind. It seemed to him of evil omen that the young lady he wished to marry, and whose fastidious father he doubted of his ability to conciliate, should be immured in a kind of domestic fortress, a pile which bore a stern old Roman name, which smelt of historic deeds, of crime and craft and violence, which was mentioned in ‘Murray’ and visited by tourists who looked, on a vague survey, disappointed and depressed, and which had frescoes by Caravaggio in the piano nobile and a row of mutilated statues and dusty urns in the wide, nobly-arched loggia overhanging the damp court where a fountain gushed out of a mossy niche. In a less preoccupied frame of mind he could have done justice to the Palazzo Roccanera; he could have entered into the sentiment of Mrs. Osmond, who had once told him that on settling themselves in Rome she and her husband had chosen this habitation for the love of local colour. It had local colour enough, and though he knew less about architecture than about Limoges enamels he could see that the proportions of the windows and even the details of the cornice had quite the grand air. But Rosier was haunted by the conviction that at picturesque periods young girls had been shut up there to keep them from their true loves, and then, under the threat of being thrown into convents, had been forced into unholy marriages. There was one point, however, to which he always did justice when once he found himself in Mrs. Osmond’s warm, rich-looking reception-rooms, which were on the second floor. He acknowledged that these people were very strong in ‘good things.’ It was a taste of Osmond’s own-not at all of hers; this she had told him the first time he came to the house, when, after asking himself for a quarter of an hour whether they had even better ‘French’ than he in Paris, he was obliged on the spot to admit that they had, very much, and vanquished his envy, as a gentleman should, to the point of expressing to his hostess his pure admiration of her treasures. He learned from Mrs. Osmond that her husband had made a large collection before their marriage and that, though he had annexed a number of fine pieces within the last three years, he had achieved his greatest finds at a time when he had not the advantage of her advice. Rosier interpreted this information according to principles of his own. For ‘advice’ read ‘cash,’ he said to himself; and the fact that Gilbert Osmond had landed his highest prizes during his impecunious season confirmed his most cherished doctrine-the doctrine that a collector may freely be poor if he be only patient. In general, when Rosier presented himself on a Thursday evening, his first recognition was for the walls of the saloon; there were three or four objects his eyes really yearned for. But after his talk with Madame Merle he felt the extreme seriousness of his position; and now, when he came in, he looked about for the daughter of the house with such eagerness as might be permitted a gentleman whose smile, as he crossed a threshold, always took everything comfortable for granted.
带着这些想法，他再次去了奥斯蒙德夫人家，奥斯蒙德夫人度过了一个“夜晚”——她选择了每周四，那时他的出现可以解释为一般的礼貌原则。罗齐尔先生的爱慕对象住在罗马市中心的一栋高楼里。一座黑暗而巨大的建筑，俯瞰着法尔内塞宫附近阳光明媚的广场。小潘西也住在一座宫殿里——按照罗马的标准，这是一座宫殿，但对可怜的罗齐尔来说，却是一个地牢。在他看来，这是一个不祥之兆，他希望娶的那位年轻女士，他怀疑自己有能力安抚这位挑剔的父亲，她应该被关在一座家庭堡垒里，一堆上面有一个严肃的古罗马名字，散发着一股臭味。历史事迹、犯罪、手艺和暴力，《默里》中提到过，参观过的游客在模糊的调查中显得失望和沮丧，钢琴大厅里有卡拉瓦乔的壁画和一排残缺不全的雕像宽阔的拱形凉廊里布满灰尘的瓮，凉廊悬在潮湿的庭院上方，喷泉从长满青苔的壁龛中喷涌而出。如果他心不在焉，他本可以公正地对待罗卡内拉宫。他可能会体会到奥斯蒙德夫人的感受，奥斯蒙德夫人曾经告诉他，她和她的丈夫在罗马定居后，出于对当地色彩的热爱而选择了这个住所。它具有足够的当地色彩，虽然他对建筑的了解不如对利摩日珐琅的了解，但他可以看到窗户的比例，甚至檐口的细节都颇有气势。 但罗齐尔却坚信，在风景如画的时期，年轻女孩被关在那里，使她们远离真爱，然后，在被扔进修道院的威胁下，被迫进入不神圣的婚姻。然而，有一点，当他有一次发现自己身处奥斯蒙德夫人位于二楼的温暖、看上去富丽堂皇的接待室时，他总是公正地对待这一点。他承认这些人在“美好事物”方面非常强大。这是奥斯蒙德自己的品味——完全不是她的；这是她第一次来家里时告诉他的，当时，在问自己一刻钟后，他们的“法语”是否比他在巴黎更好，他不得不当场承认他们有，非常喜欢，并像一位绅士那样克服了嫉妒，向女主人表达了他对她的宝藏的纯粹钦佩。他从奥斯蒙德夫人那里得知，她的丈夫在结婚前就收藏了大量藏品，尽管他在过去三年内吞并了许多精美的藏品，但他在没有优势的情况下取得了最伟大的发现。她的建议。罗齐尔根据自己的原则解释了这些信息。他对自己说，“建议”应改为“现金”；吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德在他身无分文的赛季中获得了最高奖项，这一事实证实了他最珍视的信条——收藏家只要有耐心，就可以自由地贫穷。总的来说，当罗西尔在周四晚上出现时，他首先注意到的是酒吧的墙壁；他的眼睛真正向往的东西有三四个。 但在与梅尔夫人谈话后，他感到自己的立场极其严肃。现在，当他进来时，他热切地四处寻找这家的女儿，就像一位绅士所允许的那样，当他跨过门槛时，他的微笑总是把一切舒适视为理所当然。

Chapter 37
第37章

Pansy was not in the first of the rooms, a large apartment with a concave ceiling and walls covered with old red damask; it was here Mrs. Osmond usually sat-though she was not in her most customary place to-night-and that a circle of more special intimates gathered about the fire. The room was flushed with subdued, diffused brightness; it contained the larger things and-almost always-an odour of flowers. Pansy on this occasion was presumably in the next of the series, the resort of younger visitors, where tea was served. Osmond stood before the chimney, leaning back with his hands behind him; he had one foot up and was warming the sole. Half a dozen persons, scattered near him, were talking together; but he was not in the conversation; his eyes had an expression, frequent with them, that seemed to represent them as engaged with objects more worth their while than the appearances actually thrust upon them. Rosier, coming in unannounced, failed to attract his attention; but the young man, who was very punctilious, though he was even exceptionally conscious that it was the wife, not the husband, he had come to see, went up to shake hands with him. Osmond put out his left hand, without changing his attitude.
潘西并不在第一个房间里，那是一间大公寓，天花板是凹形的，墙壁上覆盖着旧的红色锦缎。奥斯蒙德夫人通常就坐在这里——尽管她今晚不在她最习惯的地方——而且一圈更特别的亲密人士聚集在火边。房间里充满了柔和、漫射的亮度。它包含着更大的东西，而且几乎总是有花香。这次潘西大概是在该系列的下一个场景中，年轻游客的度假胜地，那里供应茶。奥斯蒙德站在烟囱前，向后靠去，双手放在身后。他抬起一只脚，正在暖脚底。六个人分散在他身边，正在一起交谈。但他并没有参与谈话；他的眼睛里有一种常见的表情，这似乎表明他们正在从事比实际呈现在他们身上的外表更值得他们关注的事物。罗齐尔未经事先通知就进来了，未能引起他的注意。那位年轻人虽然很清楚自己是来见的是妻子，而不是丈夫，但还是很谨慎，却上前与他握手。奥斯蒙德伸出左手，态度没有改变。

‘How d’ye do? My wife’s somewhere about.’
‘你怎么样？我妻子就在附近。

‘Never fear; I shall find her,’ said Rosier cheerfully.
'从不畏惧;我会找到她的。”罗齐尔高兴地说。

Osmond, however, took him in; he had never in his life felt himself so efficiently looked at. ‘Madame Merle has told him, and he doesn’t like it,’ he privately reasoned. He had hoped Madame Merle would be there, but she was not in sight; perhaps she was in one of the other rooms or would come later. He had never especially delighted in Gilbert Osmond, having a fancy he gave himself airs. But Rosier was not quickly resentful, and where politeness was concerned had ever a strong need of being quite in the right. He looked round him and smiled, all without help, and then in a moment, ‘I saw a jolly good piece of Capo di Monte to-day,’ he said.
然而，奥斯蒙德收留了他。他一生中从未感到自己被如此有效地审视过。 “梅尔夫人告诉了他，但他不喜欢，”他私下里推理道。他原本希望梅尔夫人会在那儿，但她不见了。也许她在其他房间之一，或者稍后会来。他从来没有特别喜欢过吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德，总觉得他摆出架势。但罗齐尔并没有很快产生怨恨，而且在涉及礼貌的时候，他总是强烈地需要表现得完全正确。他环顾四周，微笑着，完全没有帮助，然后过了一会儿，“我今天看到了一块非常好的卡波迪蒙特，”他说。

Osmond answered nothing at first; but presently, while he warmed his boot-sole, ‘I don’t care a fig for Capo di Monte!’ he returned.
奥斯蒙德一开始没有回答。但不久，当他暖和靴底时，他回答说：“我对卡波迪蒙特一点兴趣都没有！”

‘I hope you’re not losing your interest?’
“我希望你没有失去兴趣？”

‘In old pots and plates? Yes, I’m losing my interest.’
“在旧罐子和盘子里？是的，我正在失去兴趣。

Rosier for an instant forgot the delicacy of his position. ‘You’re not thinking of parting with a-a piece or two?’
罗齐尔一瞬间忘记了自己处境的微妙。 “你不想和一、一两块分开吗？”

‘No, I’m not thinking of parting with anything at all, Mr. Rosier,’ said Osmond, with his eyes still on the eyes of his visitor.
“不，我根本没想要离开任何东西，罗齐尔先生，”奥斯蒙德说道，他的眼睛仍然盯着来访者的眼睛。

‘Ah, you want to keep, but not to add,’ Rosier remarked brightly.
“啊，你想保留，但不想增加，”罗齐尔明亮地说。

‘Exactly. I’ve nothing I wish to match.’
'确切地。我没有什么想要匹配的。

Poor Rosier was aware he had blushed; he was distressed at his want of assurance. ‘Ah, well, I have!’ was all he could murmur; and he knew his murmur was partly lost as he turned away. He took his course to the adjoining room and met Mrs. Osmond coming out of the deep doorway. She was dressed in black velvet; she looked high and splendid, as he had said, and yet oh so radiantly gentle! We know what Mr. Rosier thought of her and the terms in which, to Madame Merle, he had expressed his admiration. Like his appreciation of her dear little stepdaughter it was based partly on his eye for decorative character, his instinct for authenticity; but also on a sense for uncatalogued values, for that secret of a ‘lustre’ beyond any recorded losing or rediscovering, which his devotion to brittle wares had still not disqualified him to recognize. Mrs. Osmond, at present, might well have gratified such tastes. The years had touched her only to enrich her; the flower of her youth had not faded, it only hung more quietly on its stem. She had lost something of that quick eagerness to which her husband had privately taken exception-she had more the air of being able to wait. Now, at all events, framed in the gilded doorway, she struck our young man as the picture of a gracious lady. ‘You see I’m very regular,’ he said. ‘But who should be if I’m not?’
可怜的罗齐尔意识到自己脸红了。他因缺乏保证而感到苦恼。 “啊，好吧，我有！”他只能低声说道。他知道当他转身离开时，他的低语已经部分消失了。他径直走到隔壁房间，遇见了从深深的门口走出来的奥斯蒙德夫人。她穿着黑色天鹅绒衣服；正如他所说，她看上去高贵而美丽，但又如此容光焕发、温柔！我们知道罗齐尔先生对她的看法，以及他向梅尔夫人表达钦佩的措辞。就像他对她亲爱的小继女的欣赏一样，这部分是基于他对装饰性性格的眼光，他对真实性的本能；但也有一种对未编入目录的价值的感觉，对超越任何有记录的丢失或重新发现的“光泽”的秘密的感觉，他对易碎物品的热爱仍然没有使他失去认识的资格。目前，奥斯蒙德夫人很可能满足这样的口味。岁月对她的感动只是为了丰富她；她的青春之花并没有凋谢，只是更加安静地挂在花茎上。她已经失去了丈夫私下里反对的那种急切的渴望——她更多了一种能够等待的神情。现在，无论如何，在镀金门口的镜框里，她给我们的年轻人留下了一幅亲切的女士的印象。 “你看我很规律，”他说。 “但如果我不是，那又该是谁呢？”

‘Yes, I’ve known you longer than any one here. But we mustn’t indulge in tender reminiscences. I want to introduce you to a young lady.’
“是的，我认识你的时间比这里任何人都长。但我们不能沉溺于温柔的回忆。我想向你介绍一位年轻女士。

‘Ah, please, what young lady?’ Rosier was immensely obliging; but this was not what he had come for.
“啊，请问，哪位年轻女士？”罗齐尔非常乐于助人。但这不是他来这里的目的。

‘She sits there by the fire in pink and has no one to speak to.’
“她穿着粉色衣服坐在火边，没有人可以说话。”

Rosier hesitated a moment. ‘Can’t Mr. Osmond speak to her? He’s within six feet of her.’
罗齐尔犹豫了一下。 “奥斯蒙德先生不能和她说话吗？”他距离她不到六英尺。

Mrs. Osmond also hesitated. ‘She’s not very lively, and be doesn’t like dull people.’
奥斯蒙德夫人也犹豫了。 “她不太活泼，也不喜欢迟钝的人。”

‘But she’s good enough for me? Ah now, that’s hard!’
‘但她对我来说足够好了吗？啊现在，这很难！

‘I only mean that you’ve ideas for two. And then you’re so obliging.’
“我只是说你有两个人的想法。然后你就非常乐于助人了。

‘So is your husband.’
“你丈夫也是。”

‘No, he’s not-to me.’ And Mrs. Osmond vaguely smiled.
“不，他对我来说不是。”奥斯蒙德夫人含糊地笑了笑。

‘That’s a sign he should be doubly so to other women.’
“这表明他对其他女性应该加倍如此。”

‘So I tell him,’ she said, still smiling.
“所以我告诉他，”她说道，仍然微笑着。

‘You see I want some tea,’ Rosier went on, looking wistfully beyond.
“你看，我想喝点茶。”罗齐尔继续说道，目光若有所思地望向远方。

‘That’s perfect. Go and give some to my young lady.’
'那很完美。去给我小姐一些吧。

‘Very good; but after that I’ll abandon her to her fate. The simple truth is I’m dying to have a little talk with Miss Osmond.’
'非常好;但在那之后我就会抛弃她，听天由命。简单的事实是，我非常想与奥斯蒙德小姐谈谈。

‘Ah,’ said Isabel, turning away, ‘I can’t help you there!’
“啊，”伊莎贝尔转身走开，说道，“我帮不了你！”

Five minutes later, while he handed a tea-cup to the damsel in pink, whom he had conducted into the other room, he wondered whether, in making to Mrs. Osmond the profession I have just quoted, he had broken the spirit of his promise to Madame Merle. Such a question was capable of occupying this young man’s mind for a considerable time. At last, however, he became-comparatively speaking-reckless; he cared little what promises he might break. The fate to which he had threatened to abandon the damsel in pink proved to be none so terrible; for Pansy Osmond, who had given him the tea for his companion-Pansy was as fond as ever of making tea-presently came and talked to her. Into this mild colloquy Edward Rosier entered little; he sat by moodily, watching his small sweetheart. If we look at her now through his eyes we shall at first not see much to remind us of the obedient little girl who, at Florence, three years before, was sent to walk short distances in the Cascine while her father and Miss Archer talked together of matters sacred to elder people. But after a moment we shall perceive that if at nineteen Pansy has become a young lady she doesn’t really fill out the part; that if she has grown very pretty she lacks in a deplorable degree the quality known and esteemed in the appearance of females as style; and that if she is dressed with great freshness she wears her smart attire with an undisguised appearance of saving it-very much as if it were lent her for the occasion. Edward Rosier, it would seem, would have been just the man to note these defects; and in point of fact there was not a quality of this young lady, of any sort, that he had not noted. Only he called her qualities by names of his own-some of which indeed were happy enough. ‘No, she’s unique-she’s absolutely unique,’ he used to say to himself; and you may be sure that not for an instant would he have admitted to you that she was wanting in style. Style? Why, she had the style of a little princess; if you couldn’t see it you had no eye. It was not modern, it was not conscious, it would produce no impression in Broadway; the small, serious damsel, in her stiff little dress, only looked like an Infanta of Velasquez. This was enough for Edward Rosier, who thought her delightfully old-fashioned. Her anxious eyes, her charming lips, her slip of a figure, were as touching as a childish prayer. He had now an acute desire to know just to what point she liked him-a desire which made him fidget as he sat in his chair. It made him feel hot, so that he had to pat his forehead with his handkerchief; he had never been so uncomfortable. She was such a perfect jeune fille, and one couldn’t make of a jeune fille the enquiry requisite for throwing light on such a point. A jeune fille was what Rosier had always dreamed of-a jeune fille who should yet not be French, for he had felt that this nationality would complicate the question. He was sure Pansy had never looked at a newspaper and that, in the way of novels, if she had read Sir Walter Scott it was the very most. An American jeune fille-what could be better than that? She would be frank and gay, and yet would not have walked alone, nor have received letters from men, nor have been taken to the theatre to see the comedy of manners. Rosier could not deny that, as the matter stood, it would be a breach of hospitality to appeal directly to this unsophisticated creature; but he was now in imminent danger of asking himself if hospitality were the most sacred thing in the world. Was not the sentiment that he entertained for Miss Osmond of infinitely greater importance? Of greater importance to him-yes; but not probably to the master of the house. There was one comfort; even if this gentleman had been placed on his guard by Madame Merle he would not have extended the warning to Pansy; it would not have been part of his policy to let her know that a prepossessing young man was in love with her. But he was in love with her, the prepossessing young man; and all these restrictions of circumstance had ended by irritating him. What had Gilbert Osmond meant by giving him two fingers of his left hand? If Osmond was rude, surely he himself might be bold. He felt extremely bold after the dull girl in so vain a disguise of rose-colour had responded to the call of her mother, who came in to say, with a significant simper at Rosier, that she must carry her off to other triumphs. The mother and daughter departed together, and now it depended only upon him that he should be virtually alone with Pansy. He had never been alone with her before; he had never been alone with a jeune fille. It was a great moment; poor Rosier began to pat his forehead again. There was another room beyond the one in which they stood-a small room that had been thrown open and lighted, but that, the company not being numerous, had remained empty all the evening. It was empty yet; it was upholstered in pale yellow; there were several lamps; through the open door it looked the very temple of authorized love. Rosier gazed a moment through this aperture; he was afraid that Pansy would run away, and felt almost capable of stretching out a hand to detain her. But she lingered where the other maiden had left them, making no motion to join a knot of visitors on the far side of the room. For a little it occurred to him that she was frightened-too frightened perhaps to move; but a second glance assured him she was not, and he then reflected that she was too innocent indeed for that. After a supreme hesitation he asked her if he might go and look at the yellow room, which seemed so attractive yet so virginal. He had been there already with Osmond, to inspect the furniture, which was of the First French Empire, and especially to admire the clock (which he didn’t really admire), an immense classic structure of that period. He therefore felt that he had now begun to manoeuvre.
五分钟后，当他把一个茶杯递给粉红色的少女时，他把她领进了另一个房间，他想知道，在对奥斯蒙德夫人做出我刚才引用的职业时，他是否违背了他的精神。对梅尔夫人的承诺。这样的问题足以占据这个年轻人的脑海相当长一段时间。然而，相对而言，他最终变得鲁莽了。他并不关心自己可能会违背什么承诺。他曾威胁要抛弃粉红女郎，但事实证明，他的命运并没有那么可怕。潘西·奥斯蒙德给他的同伴泡了茶——潘西一如既往地喜欢泡茶——很快就过来和她说话了。爱德华·罗西尔在这场温和的谈话中几乎没有介入。他闷闷不乐地坐在一旁，看着他的小甜心。如果我们现在通过他的眼睛看她，我们首先不会看到太多让我们想起三年前在佛罗伦萨的那个听话的小女孩，她被派去卡西尼短途步行，而她的父亲和阿切尔小姐在一起谈话对老年人来说神圣的事情。但过了一会儿我们就会发现，如果潘西在十九岁时变成了一位年轻女士，她并没有真正扮演这个角色；即使她变得非常漂亮，她也严重缺乏女性外貌中被认为是时尚的品质；如果她穿着非常新鲜，那么她会穿着漂亮的衣服，毫不掩饰地表现出节约的样子——就像是为了这个场合借给她的一样。爱德华·罗齐尔（Edward Rosier）似乎正是注意到这些缺陷的人。事实上，这位年轻女士的任何品质，他都注意到了。只是他用自己的名字来称呼她的品质——其中一些确实足够令人高兴。 “不，她是独一无二的——她绝对是独一无二的，”他常常对自己说。你可以肯定，他一刻也不会向你承认她缺乏时尚感。风格？为什么，她有小公主的风格；如果你看不到它，你就没有眼睛。它不现代，不自觉，不会在百老汇产生任何印象；这位身材娇小、严肃的少女，穿着僵硬的小裙子，看起来就像委拉斯开兹的公主。这对爱德华·罗齐尔来说已经足够了，他认为她很老式。她焦急的眼神，她迷人的嘴唇，她那飘逸的身姿，都像孩子气的祈祷一样动人。他现在有一种强烈的渴望，想知道她到底喜欢他到什么程度——这种渴望让他坐在椅子上坐立不安。他感觉很热，不得不用手帕拍拍额头；他从来没有这么不舒服过。她是一位如此完美的年轻女子，而人们无法将年轻女子作为阐明这一点所必需的询问。罗齐尔一直梦想着一个年轻的姑娘——一个不应该是法国人的年轻姑娘，因为他觉得这个国籍会让问题变得复杂。他确信潘西从来没有看过报纸，而以小说的方式来看，如果她读过沃尔特·斯科特爵士的话，那也是最多的。一个美国年轻女孩——还有什么比这更好的呢？她会坦率而快乐，但不会独自行走，不会收到男人的来信，也不会被带去剧院看礼仪喜剧。罗齐尔无法否认，就目前情况而言，直接向这个单纯的生物求助是一种失礼行为。但他现在面临着迫在眉睫的危险，他要问自己，热情好客是否是世界上最神圣的事情。 难道他对奥斯蒙德小姐的感情不是更重要吗？对他来说更重要——是的；但对房子的主人来说可能不是。有一种安慰是：即使梅尔夫人让这位先生保持警惕，他也不会向潘西发出警告。他的政策不会让她知道一个迷人的年轻人爱上了她。但他却爱上了她，这个迷人的年轻人。所有这些环境限制最终都激怒了他。吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德把左手的两根手指给了他是什么意思？如果奥斯蒙德很粗鲁，那么他本人肯定也很大胆。当这个愚蠢的女孩用玫瑰色的伪装来回应她母亲的召唤后，他感到非常大胆，她母亲进来，对罗西尔意味深长地傻笑，说她必须带她去取得其他的胜利。母女俩一起离开了，现在只能靠他了，他实际上应该单独和潘西在一起。他以前从未单独和她在一起过。他从来没有单独和一个年轻女孩在一起过。这是一个伟大的时刻；可怜的罗齐尔又开始拍拍额头。除了他们所站的房间之外，还有另一个房间——一间小房间，已经打开并亮着灯，但由于客人不多，所以整个晚上都空着。里面还空着；房间的软垫是淡黄色的。有几盏灯；透过敞开的门，它看起来就是授权爱情的殿堂。罗齐尔透过这个孔看了一会儿。他生怕Pansy跑掉，感觉自己几乎可以伸手去拉住她了。但她在另一位少女离开的地方徘徊，没有加入房间另一边的一群访客。 他突然意识到她很害怕——也许吓得不敢动弹。但再看一眼，他确信她不是，然后他想到她确实太天真了，不应该这么做。经过一番犹豫之后，他问她是否可以去看看那间黄色的房间，它看起来如此迷人，又如此纯洁。他已经和奥斯蒙德一起去了那里，检查法兰西第一帝国的家具，特别是欣赏那个时钟（他并不真正欣赏），这是那个时期的一个巨大的经典结构。因此，他觉得自己现在已经开始行动了。

‘Certainly, you may go,’ said Pansy; ‘and if you like I’ll show you.’ She was not in the least frightened.
“当然，你可以走了，”潘西说。 “如果你愿意的话，我就给你看。”她一点也不害怕。

‘That’s just what I hoped you’d say; you’re so very kind,’ Rosier murmured.
“这正是我希望你说的； “你真是太好了。”罗齐尔低声说道。

They went in together; Rosier really thought the room very ugly, and it seemed cold. The same idea appeared to have struck Pansy. ‘It’s not for winter evenings; it’s for summer,’ she said. ‘It’s papa’s taste; he has so much.’
他们一起进去；罗齐尔确实觉得这个房间很丑，而且看起来很冷。潘西似乎也有同样的想法。 “这不适合冬天的夜晚；这是夏天用的，”她说。 “这是爸爸的味道；他有这么多。

He had a good deal, Rosier thought; but some of it was very bad. He looked about him; he hardly knew what to say in such a situation.
罗齐尔心想，他有很多东西。但其中一些非常糟糕。他环顾四周；在这种情况下他几乎不知道该说什么。

‘Doesn’t Mrs. Osmond care how her rooms are done? Has she no taste? he asked.
“奥斯蒙德夫人难道不关心她的房间是怎样布置的吗？”她没有品味吗？他问。

‘Oh yes, a great deal; but it’s more for literature,’ said Pansy-”and for conversation. But papa cares also for those things. I think he knows everything.’
“噢，是的，很多；”但更多的是为了文学，”潘西说——“还有对话。但爸爸也关心这些​​事情。我认为他什么都知道。

Rosier was silent a little. ‘There’s one thing I’m sure he knows!’ he broke out presently. ‘He knows that when I come here it’s, with all respect to him, with all respect to Mrs. Osmond, who’s so charming-it’s really,’ said the young man, ‘to see you!’
罗齐尔沉默了一会儿。 “有一件事我确信他知道！”他立刻说道。 “他知道，怀着对他和奥斯蒙德夫人的全部敬意，我来到这里是为了见到你，她是如此迷人——真的，”年轻人说，“来见你！”

‘To see me?’ And Pansy raised her vaguely-troubled eyes.
“来看我？”潘西抬起她那双有些困惑的眼睛。

‘To see you; that’s what I come for,’ Rosier repeated, feeling the intoxication of a rupture with authority.
'为了见你; “这就是我来这里的目的。”罗齐尔重复道，感受着与权威决裂的陶醉。

Pansy stood looking at him, simply, intently, openly; a blush was not needed to make her face more modest. ‘I thought it was for that.’
Pansy站在那里看着他，简单、专注、公开。不需要脸红就能让她的脸显得更加谦虚。 “我以为是为了这个。”

‘And it was not disagreeable to you?’
“这对你来说并不令人不快吗？”

‘I couldn’t tell; I didn’t know. You never told me,’ said Pansy.
“我不知道；我不知道。你从来没有告诉过我，”潘西说。

‘I was afraid of offending you.’
“我害怕得罪你。”

‘You don’t offend me,’ the young girl murmured, smiling as if an angel had kissed her.
“你别冒犯我。”年轻女孩低声说道，微笑着，仿佛天使亲吻了她。

‘You like me then, Pansy?’ Rosier asked very gently, feeling very happy.
“那你喜欢我吗，潘西？”罗齐尔很温柔地问道，感到很高兴。

‘Yes-I like you.’
'是的，我喜欢你。'

They had walked to the chimney-piece where the big cold Empire clock was perched; they were well within the room and beyond observation from without. The tone in which she had said these four words seemed to him the very breath of nature, and his only answer could be to take her hand and hold it a moment. Then he raised it to his lips. She submitted, still with her pure, trusting smile, in which there was something ineffably passive. She liked him-she had liked him all the while; now anything might happen! She was ready-she had been ready always, waiting for him to speak. If he had not spoken she would have waited for ever; but when the word came she dropped like the peach from the shaken tree. Rosier felt that if he should draw her toward him and hold her to his heart she would submit without a murmur, would rest there without a question. It was true that this would be a rash experiment in a yellow Empire salottino. She had known it was for her he came, and yet like what a perfect little lady she had carried it off!
他们走到烟囱旁，那里矗立着冰冷的帝国大钟。他们就在房间内，从外面观察不到。她说这四个字的语气对他来说就像是大自然的气息，而他唯一的回答就是握住她的手，握一会儿。然后他把它举到唇边。她屈服了，仍然带着纯洁、信任的微笑，其中有一种难以言喻的被动。她喜欢他——她一直喜欢他；她喜欢他。现在什么事情都可能发生！她已经准备好了——她一直都准备好了，等待着他说话。如果他不说话，她就会永远等待。但当这个消息传来时，她像桃子从摇摇欲坠的树上掉下来一样。罗齐尔觉得，如果他把她拉向自己，把她抱在怀里，她就会毫无怨言地屈服，毫无疑问地休息在那里。确实，这将是对黄色帝国萨洛蒂诺的一次鲁莽实验。她知道他是为了她而来，但她却像一个多么完美的小女士一样把它带走了！

‘You’re very dear to me,’ he murmured, trying to believe that there was after all such a thing as hospitality.
“你对我来说非常亲爱，”他低声说道，试图相信毕竟还有热情好客这回事。

She looked a moment at her hand, where he had kissed it. ‘Did you say papa knows?’
她看了一会儿自己的手，被他吻过的地方。 “你说爸爸知道吗？”

‘You told me just now he knows everything.’
“你刚才告诉我他什么都知道。”

‘I think you must make sure,’ said Pansy.
“我想你必须确定一下，”潘西说。

‘Ah, my dear, when once I’m sure of you!’ Rosier murmured in her ear; whereupon she turned back to the other rooms with a little air of consistency which seemed to imply that their appeal should be immediate.
“啊，亲爱的，一旦我确信你了！”罗齐尔在她耳边低声说道。于是她转身回到其他房间，脸上带着一丝一贯的神情，这似乎暗示着它们应该立即受到欢迎。

The other rooms meanwhile had become conscious of the arrival of Madame Merle, who, wherever she went, produced an impression when she entered. How she did it the most attentive spectator could not have told you, for she neither spoke loud, nor laughed profusely, nor moved rapidly, nor dressed with splendour, nor appealed in any appreciable manner to the audience. Large, fair, smiling, serene, there was something in her very tranquillity that diffused itself, and when people looked around it was because of a sudden quiet. On this occasion she had done the quietest thing she could do; after embracing Mrs. Osmond, which was more striking, she had sat down on a small sofa to commune with the master of the house. There was a brief exchange of commonplaces between these two-they always paid, in public, a certain formal tribute to the commonplace-and then Madame Merle, whose eyes had been wandering, asked if little Mr. Rosier had come this evening.
与此同时，其他房间也意识到了梅尔夫人的到来，无论她走到哪里，只要她进来，都会给人留下深刻的印象。她是如何做到的，即使是最细心的观众也无法告诉你，因为她既不大声说话，也不大笑，也不迅速移动，也不穿着华丽，也不以任何明显的方式吸引观众。身材高大，皮肤白皙，面带微笑，安详，她的宁静中弥漫着某种东西，人们环顾四周，那是因为突然的安静。这一次，她做了她能做的最安静的事。更引人注目的是，在拥抱了奥斯蒙德夫人之后，她就坐在了一张小沙发上，与这座房子的主人交谈。两人之间简短地交换了一些平常事——他们总是在公开场合对这些平常事表示正式的敬意——然后梅尔夫人的目光一直在游移，问罗齐尔小先生今天晚上是否来过。

‘He came nearly an hour ago-but he has disappeared,’ Osmond said.
“他大约一个小时前来过，但现在已经消失了，”奥斯蒙德说。

‘And where’s Pansy?’
“潘西在哪儿？”

‘In the other room. There are several people there.’
‘在另一个房间里。那里有几个人。

‘He’s probably among them,’ said Madame Merle.
“他可能就是其中之一，”梅尔夫人说。

‘Do you wish to see him?’ Osmond asked in a provokingly pointless tone.
“你想见他吗？”奥斯蒙德用一种毫无意义的语气问道。

Madame Merle looked at him a moment; she knew each of his tones to the eighth of a note. ‘Yes, I should like to say to him that I’ve told you what he wants, and that it interests you but feebly.’
梅尔夫人看了他一会儿。她对他的每一个音调都了如指掌。 “是的，我想对他说，我已经告诉你他想要什么了，你对它感兴趣，但兴趣不大。”

‘Don’t tell him that. He’ll try to interest me more-which is exactly what I don’t want. Tell him I hate his proposal.’
‘别告诉他这个。他会试图让我更感兴趣——这正是我不想要的。告诉他我讨厌他的提议。

‘But you don’t hate it.’
“但你并不讨厌它。”

‘It doesn’t signify; I don’t love it. I let him see that, myself, this evening; I was rude to him on purpose. That sort of thing’s a great bore. There’s no hurry.’
‘这并不意味着；我不喜欢它。今晚我亲自让他看到了这一点；我故意对他无礼。那种事情真是令人厌烦。不着急。

‘I’ll tell him that you’ll take time and think it over.’
“我会告诉他，你需要时间考虑一下。”

‘No, don’t do that. He’ll hang on.’
‘不，不要那样做。他会坚持下去。

‘If I discourage him he’ll do the same.’
“如果我劝阻他，他也会这么做。”

‘Yes, but in the one case he’ll try to talk and explain-which would be exceedingly tiresome. In the other he’ll probably hold his tongue and go in for some deeper game. That will leave me quiet. I hate talking with a donkey.’
“是的，但在一种情况下，他会尝试说话和解释——这会非常令人厌烦。在另一种情况下，他可能会保持沉默并进行一些更深层次的游戏。那会让我安静。我讨厌和驴说话。

‘Is that what you call poor Mr. Rosier?’
“这就是你所说的可怜的罗齐尔先生吗？”

‘Oh, he’s a nuisance-with his eternal majolica.’
“哦，他真是个讨厌鬼——他那永恒的珐琅器。”

Madame Merle dropped her eyes; she had a faint smile. ‘He’s a gentleman, he has a charming temper; and, after all, an income of forty thousand francs!’
梅尔夫人垂下了眼睛。她脸上带着淡淡的微笑。 ‘他是一位绅士，脾气迷人；而且，毕竟还有四万法郎的收入！”

‘It’s misery-’genteel’ misery,’ Osmond broke in. ‘It’s not what I’ve dreamed of for Pansy.’
“这是痛苦——‘优雅’的痛苦，”奥斯蒙德插话道，“这不是我对潘西的梦想。”

‘Very good then. He has promised me not to speak to her.’
‘那就太好了。他答应我不要和她说话。

‘Do you believe him?’ Osmond asked absent-mindedly.
“你相信他吗？”奥斯蒙德心不在焉地问道。

‘Perfectly. Pansy has thought a great deal about him; but I don’t suppose you consider that that matters.’
'完美。 Pansy对他想了很多。但我认为你认为这并不重要。

‘I don’t consider it matters at all; but neither do I believe she has thought of him.’
“我认为这根本不重要；但我也不相信她想到了他。

‘That opinion’s more convenient,’ said Madame Merle quietly.
“这个意见比较方便。”梅尔夫人平静地说。

‘Has she told you she’s in love with him?’
“她有告诉过你她爱他吗？”

‘For what do you take her? And for what do you take me?’ Madame Merle added in a moment.
‘你拿她来做什么？那么你拿我来做什么？”梅尔夫人随即补充道。

Osmond had raised his foot and was resting his slim ankle on the other knee; he clasped his ankle in his hand familiarly-his long, fine forefinger and thumb could make a ring for it-and gazed a while before him. ‘This kind of thing doesn’t find me unprepared. It’s what I educated her for. It was all for this-that when such a case should come up she should do what I prefer.’
奥斯蒙德抬起脚，将纤细的脚踝搁在另一只膝盖上。他熟悉地用手握住脚踝——他修长而纤细的食指和拇指可以将它圈成一个圈——然后凝视了一会儿。 ‘这种事情不会让我毫无准备。这就是我教育她的目的。这一切都是为了——当出现这种情况时，她应该做我喜欢做的事。”

‘I’m not afraid that she’ll not do it.’
“我不怕她不这么做。”

‘Well then, where’s the hitch?’
“那么，问题出在哪里呢？”

‘I don’t see any. But, all the same, I recommend you not to get rid of Mr.
‘我什么也没看到。但是，尽管如此，我还是建议你不要摆脱先生。

Rosier. Keep him on hand; he may be useful.’
罗齐尔。让他在手边；他可能有用。

‘I can’t keep him. Keep him yourself.’
‘我留不住他。你自己留着他吧。

‘Very good; I’ll put him into a corner and allow him so much a day.’ Madame Merle had, for the most part, while they talked, been glancing about her; it was her habit in this situation, just as it was her habit to interpose a good many blank-looking pauses. A long drop followed the last words I have quoted; and before it had ended she saw Pansy come out of the adjoining room, followed by Edward Rosier. The girl advanced a few steps and then stopped and stood looking at Madame Merle and at her father.
'非常好; “我会把他逼到角落里，让他一天都这样。”在他们谈话的时候，梅尔夫人大部分时间都在扫视着她；她总是在看着她。这是她在这种情况下的习惯，就像她习惯于插入许多看似茫然的停顿一样。我引用的最后一句话之后，长长的一滴水落了下去；还没结束，她就看到潘西从隔壁房间走了出来，后面跟着爱德华·罗齐尔。女孩向前走了几步，然后停了下来，站在那里看着梅尔夫人和她的父亲。

‘He has spoken to her,’ Madame Merle went on to Osmond.
“他已经和她说过话了，”梅尔夫人继续对奥斯蒙德说道。

Her companion never turned his head. ‘So much for your belief in his promises. He ought to be horse-whipped.’
她的同伴始终没有回头。 “你对他的承诺的信任就到此为止了。”他应该被马鞭打。

‘He intends to confess, poor little man!’
“他打算坦白，可怜的小男人！”

Osmond got up; he had now taken a sharp look at his daughter. ‘It doesn’t matter,’ he murmured, turning away.
奥斯蒙德站了起来；他现在目光锐利地看着他的女儿。 “没关系，”他低声说道，转身走开。

Pansy after a moment came up to Madame Merle with her little manner of unfamiliar politeness. This lady’s reception of her was not more intimate; she simply, as she rose from the sofa, gave her a friendly smile.
过了一会儿，潘西带着她不熟悉的礼貌走到梅尔夫人面前。这位女士对她的接待并没有更加亲密；当她从沙发上站起来时，她只是简单地给了她一个友好的微笑。

‘You’re very late,’ the young creature gently said.
“你来晚了。”年轻的生物温柔地说。

‘My dear child, I’m never later than I intend to be.’
“我亲爱的孩子，我永远不会迟到。”

Madame Merle had not got up to be gracious to Pansy; she moved toward Edward Rosier. He came to meet her and, very quickly, as if to get it off his mind, ‘I’ve spoken to her!’ he whispered.
梅尔夫人还没有起身对潘西客气。她走向爱德华·罗齐尔。他来迎接她，很快，仿佛是为了忘掉这件事，他低声说道：“我已经和她说过话了！”

‘I know it, Mr. Rosier.’
“我知道，罗齐尔先生。”

‘Did she tell you?’
“她告诉你了吗？”

‘Yes, she told me. Behave properly for the rest of the evening, and come and see me to-morrow at a quarter past five.’ She was severe, and in the manner in which she turned her back to him there was a degree of contempt which caused him to mutter a decent imprecation.
“是的，她告诉我的。今晚剩下的时间里要好好表现，明天五点十五分来见我。”她态度严厉，背对着他的态度中带着一丝轻蔑，这让他低声咒骂一句像样的咒语。

He had no intention of speaking to Osmond; it was neither the time nor the place. But he instinctively wandered toward Isabel, who sat talking with an old lady. He sat down on the other side of her; the old lady was Italian, and Rosier took for granted she understood no English. ‘You said just now you wouldn’t help me,’ he began to Mrs. Osmond. ‘Perhaps you’ll feel differently when you know-when you know-!
他无意与奥斯蒙德说话。既不是时间，也不是地点。但他本能地朝伊莎贝尔走去，伊莎贝尔正坐着和一位老太太聊天。他在她的另一边坐下；老太太是意大利人，罗齐尔理所当然地认为她不懂英语。 “你刚才说你不会帮助我，”他对奥斯蒙德夫人说道。 ‘也许当你知道——当你知道——时你会有不同的感觉！

Isabel met his hesitation. ‘When I know what?’
伊莎贝尔满足了他的犹豫。 “当我知道什么的时候？”

‘That she’s all right.’
“她没事。”

‘What do you mean by that?’
'你是什么意思？'

‘Well, that we’ve come to an understanding.’
“好吧，我们已经达成共识了。”

‘She’s all wrong,’ said Isabel. ‘It won’t do.’
“她完全错了，”伊莎贝尔说。 “这不行。”

Poor Rosier gazed at her half-pleadingly, half-angrily; a sudden flush testified to his sense of injury. ‘I’ve never been treated so,’ he said. ‘What is there against me, after all? That’s not the way I’m usually considered. I could have married twenty times.’
可怜的罗齐尔半是恳求半是愤怒地看着她。突然的脸红证明了他受伤的感觉。 “我从来没有受到过这样的对待，”他说。 ‘到底有什么是对我不利的？人们通常不会这样看待我。我本来可以结婚二十次。”

‘It’s a pity you didn’t. I don’t mean twenty times, but once comfortably,’ Isabel added, smiling kindly. ‘You’re not rich enough for Pansy.’ ‘She doesn’t care a straw for one’s money.’
‘可惜你没有。我的意思不是二十次，而是一次舒服的，”伊莎贝尔友善地微笑着补充道。 “你对潘西来说还不够富有。”“她根本不在乎别人的钱。”

‘No, but her father does.’
“没有，但她父亲有。”

‘Ah yes, he has proved that!’ cried the young man.
“啊，是的，他已经证明了这一点！”年轻人喊道。

Isabel got up, turning away from him, leaving her old lady without ceremony; and he occupied himself for the next ten minutes in pretending to look at Gilbert Osmond’s collection of miniatures, which were neatly arranged on a series of small velvet screens. But he looked without seeing; his cheek burned; he was too full of his sense of injury. It was certain that he had never been treated that way before; he was not used to being thought not good enough. He knew how good he was, and if such a fallacy had not been so pernicious he could have laughed at it. He searched again for Pansy, but she had disappeared, and his main desire was now to get out of the house. Before doing so he spoke once more to Isabel; it was not agreeable to him to reflect that he had just said a rude thing to her-the only point that would now justify a low view of him.
伊莎贝尔站起来，转身离开他，毫不客气地离开了她的老太太。接下来的十分钟里，他假装在看吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德收藏的细密画，这些细密画整齐地排列在一系列天鹅绒小屏幕上。但他只是看而不见；他的脸颊火辣辣的；他太受伤害了。可以肯定的是，他以前从来没有受到过这样的待遇。他不习惯被认为不够好。他知道自己有多优秀，如果这种谬论不是那么恶毒的话，他可能会嘲笑它。他再次寻找Pansy，但她已经消失了，他现在主要的愿望是离开房子。在此之前，他再次对伊莎贝尔说话。想到自己刚才对她说了一句粗鲁的话，他感到很不舒服——这是现在唯一可以证明他对他的蔑视是正当的理由。

‘I referred to Mr. Osmond as I shouldn’t have done, a while ago,’ he began. ‘But you must remember my situation.’
“不久前，我不应该提到奥斯蒙德先生，”他开始说道。 “但你必须记住我的处境。”

‘I don’t remember what you said,’ she answered coldly.
“我不记得你说了什么。”她冷冷地回答。

‘Ah, you’re offended, and now you’ll never help me.’
“啊，你被冒犯了，现在你永远不会帮助我了。”

She was silent an instant, and then with a change of tone: ‘It’s not that I won’t; I simply can’t!’ Her manner was almost passionate.
她先是沉默了一会儿，然后语气一变：“不是我不肯，而是我不肯。”我根本做不到！”她的态度近乎热情。

‘If you could, just a little, I’d never again speak of your husband save as an angel.’
“如果你可以的话，哪怕只是一点点，我再也不会谈论你的丈夫了，除非他是天使。”

‘The inducement’s great,’ said Isabel gravely-inscrutably, as he afterwards, to himself, called it; and she gave him, straight in the eyes, a look which was also inscrutable. It made him remember somehow that he had known her as a child; and yet it was keener than he liked, and he took himself off.
“这个诱惑是巨大的，”伊莎贝尔严肃地说，他后来自言自语地说，语气令人费解。她直视着他，眼神同样令人费解。不知何故，这让他想起自己小时候就认识她了。然而，这比他喜欢的更强烈，他就走了。

Chapter 38
第38章

He went to see Madame Merle on the morrow, and to his surprise she let him off rather easily. But she made him promise that he would stop there till something should have been decided. Mr. Osmond had had higher expectations; it was very true that as he had no intention of giving his daughter a portion such expectations were open to criticism or even, if one would, to ridicule. But she would advise Mr. Rosier not to take that tone; if he would possess his soul in patience he might arrive at his felicity. Mr. Osmond was not favourable to his suit, but it wouldn’t be a miracle if he should gradually come round. Pansy would never defy her father, he might depend on that; so nothing was to be gained by precipitation. Mr. Osmond needed to accustom his mind to an offer of a sort that he had not hitherto entertained, and this result must come of itself-it was useless to try to force it. Rosier remarked that his own situation would be in the meanwhile the most uncomfortable in the world, and Mad Merle assured him that she felt for him. But, as she justly declared, one couldn’t have everything one wanted; she had learned that lesson for herself. There would be no use in his writing to Gilbert Osmond, who had charged her to tell him as much. He wished the matter dropped for a few weeks and would himself write when he should have anything to communicate that it might please Mr. Rosier to hear.
第二天他去看梅尔夫人，令他惊讶的是，她轻易地就放走了他。但她让他保证他会就此停下来，直到做出决定为止。奥斯蒙德先生有更高的期望；确实，由于他无意分给女儿一部分，这种期望很容易受到批评，甚至，如果有人愿意的话，也会受到嘲笑。但她建议罗齐尔先生不要采取这种语气；如果他能耐心地掌控自己的灵魂，他就可能获得幸福。奥斯蒙德先生对他的诉讼并不赞成，但如果他逐渐回心转意也不足为奇。潘西永远不会违抗她的父亲，他可能会相信这一点。因此，降水不会带来任何好处。奥斯蒙德先生需要让他的思想习惯于一种他迄今为止从未接受过的提议，而这个结果必然会自然而然地出现——试图强迫它是没有用的。罗齐尔表示，与此同时，他自己的处境将是世界上最不舒服的，而疯狂梅尔则向他保证，她同情他。但是，正如她公正地宣称的那样，一个人不可能拥有自己想要的一切；她自己已经吸取了教训。他给吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德写信是没有用的，因为吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德要求她告诉他这么多。他希望这件事能搁置几个星期，当他有什么需要传达给罗齐尔先生听的内容时，他会亲自写信。

‘He doesn’t like your having spoken to Pansy. Ah, he doesn’t like it at all,’ said Madame Merle.
“他不喜欢你和潘西说话。啊，他一点也不喜欢。”梅尔夫人说。

‘I’m perfectly willing to give him a chance to tell me so!
“我非常愿意给他一个机会告诉我这一点！

‘If you do that he’ll tell you more than you care to hear. Go to the house, for the next month, as little as possible, and leave the rest to me.’
“如果你这样做，他会告诉你比你想听的更多的事情。下个月尽量少去家里，剩下的交给我。”

‘As little as possible? Who’s to measure the possibility?’
'尽可能少？谁来衡量可能性？

‘Let me measure it. Go on Thursday evenings with the rest of the world, but don’t go at all at odd times, and don’t fret about Pansy. I’ll see that she understands everything. She’s a calm little nature; she’ll take it quietly.’
‘让我量一下。周四晚上和世界其他地方一起去，但不要在奇怪的时间去，也不要为潘西担心。我会看到她明白一切。她是个性格冷静的小姑娘；她会安静地接受它。

Edward Rosier fretted about Pansy a good deal, but he did as he was advised, and awaited another Thursday evening before returning to Palazzo Roccanera. There had been a party at dinner, so that though he went early the company was already tolerably numerous. Osmond, as usual, was in the first room, near the fire, staring straight at the door, so that, not to be distinctly uncivil, Rosier had to go and speak to him.
爱德华·罗齐尔对潘西非常担心，但他按照建议做了，又等了一个周四晚上，然后才返回罗卡内拉宫。晚餐时正有聚会，所以虽然他去得早，但客人已经不少了。奥斯蒙德像往常一样，在第一个房间里，靠近火炉，直视着门口，因此，为了避免明显不礼貌，罗齐尔不得不走过去和他说话。

‘I’m glad that you can take a hint,’ Pansy’s father said, slightly closing his keen, conscious eyes.
“我很高兴你能接受暗示，”潘西的父亲说，微微闭上了他敏锐而清醒的眼睛。

‘I take no hints. But I took a message, as I supposed it to be.’
“我不接受任何暗示。但正如我所料，我收到了一条消息。

‘You took it? Where did you take it?’
‘你拿走了？你把它带到哪里去了？

It seemed to poor Rosier he was being insulted, and he waited a moment, asking himself how much a true lover ought to submit to. ‘Madame Merle gave me, as I understood it, a message from you-to the effect that you declined to give me the opportunity I desire, the opportunity to explain my wishes to you.’ And he flattered himself he spoke rather sternly.
在可怜的罗齐尔看来，他似乎受到了侮辱，他等了一会儿，问自己一个真正的情人应该服从多少。 “据我所知，梅尔夫人给了我一条来自你的信息——大意是你拒绝给我我想要的机会，向你解释我的愿望的机会。”他自以为他说话相当严厉。

‘I don’t see what Madame Merle has to do with it. Why did you apply to Madame Merle?’
“我不明白梅尔夫人与这有什么关系。你为什么向梅尔夫人申请？

‘I asked her for an opinion-for nothing more. I did so because she had seemed to me to know you very well.’
“我征求她的意见——仅此而已。我这样做是因为在我看来她很了解你。

‘She doesn’t know me so well as she thinks,’ said Osmond.
“她并不像她想象的那么了解我，”奥斯蒙德说。

‘I’m sorry for that, because she has given me some little ground for hope.’
“对此我感到很抱歉，因为她给了我一些希望的理由。”

Osmond stared into the fire a moment. ‘I set a great price on my daughter.’
奥斯蒙德盯着火焰看了一会儿。 “我为我的女儿开出了很高的价格。”

‘You can’t set a higher one than I do. Don’t I prove it by wishing to marry her?’
‘你不能设定比我​​更高的。我想娶她不就是证明这一点吗？

‘I wish to marry her very well,’ Osmond went on with a dry impertinence which, in another mood, poor Rosier would have admired.
“我非常希望娶她为妻。”奥斯蒙德以干巴巴的无礼态度继续说道，如果换一种心情，可怜的罗齐尔一定会钦佩这种态度。

‘Of course I pretend she’d marry well in marrying me. She couldn’t marry a man who loves her more-or whom, I may venture to add, she loves more.’
“当然，我假装她会嫁给我，嫁得很好。”她不可能嫁给一个更爱她的男人——或者，我可以斗胆补充一下，她更爱这个男人。

‘I’m not bound to accept your theories as to whom my daughter loves’-and Osmond looked up with a quick, cold smile.
“关于我女儿爱谁，我没有义务接受你的理论。”奥斯蒙德抬起头，脸上迅速地冷冷一笑。

‘I’m not theorizing. Your daughter has spoken.’
‘我不是在推理。你女儿已经说话了。”

‘Not to me,’ Osmond continued, now bending forward a little and dropping his eyes to his boot-toes.
“对我来说不是，”奥斯蒙德继续说道，现在稍微向前倾身，目光落在他的靴子脚趾上。

‘I have her promise, sir!’ cried Rosier with the sharpness of exasperation.
“我得到了她的承诺，先生！”罗齐尔愤怒地喊道。

As their voices had been pitched very low before, such a note attracted some attention from the company. Osmond waited till this little movement had subsided; then he said, all undisturbed: ‘I think she has no recollection of having given it.’
由于之前他们的声音很低，这样的提示引起了公司的一些注意。奥斯蒙德一直等到这股小小的动静平息下来。然后他平静地说：“我想她不记得给过它。”

They had been standing with their faces to the fire, and after he had uttered these last words the master of the house turned round again to the room. Before Rosier had time to reply he perceived that a gentleman-a stranger-had just come in, unannounced, according to the Roman custom, and was about to present himself to his host. The latter smiled blandly, but somewhat blankly; the visitor had a handsome face and a large, fair beard, and was evidently an Englishman.
他们一直面朝火堆站着，在他说完这最后一句话后，房子的主人又转身进了房间。罗齐尔还没来得及回答，他就发现一位绅士——一位陌生人——按照罗马习俗，未经事先通知就进来了，正要向主人介绍自己。后者笑容温和，但又有些茫然；来访者长着一张英俊的脸，留着大而金黄的胡须，显然是个英国人。

‘You apparently don’t recognize me,’ he said with a smile that expressed more than Osmond’s.
“你显然不认识我，”他带着比奥斯蒙德更丰富的微笑说道。

‘Ah yes, now I do. I expected so little to see you.’
‘啊，是的，现在我知道了。我没想到会见到你。

Rosier departed and went in direct pursuit of Pansy. He sought her, as usual, in the neighbouring room, but he again encountered Mrs. Osmond in his path. He gave his hostess no greeting-he was too righteously indignant, but said to her crudely: ‘Your husband’s awfully cold-blooded.’
罗齐尔离开并直接追击潘西。他像往常一样在隔壁房间寻找她，但他在路上再次遇到了奥斯蒙德夫人。他没有跟女主人打招呼，他义愤填膺，只是粗鲁地对她说：“你丈夫真是冷血到了极点。”

She gave the same mystical smile he had noticed before. ‘You can’t expect every one to be as hot as yourself.’
她露出了他以前注意到的同样神秘的微笑。 “你不能指望每个人都像你一样性感。”

‘I don’t pretend to be cold, but I’m cool. What has he been doing to his daughter?’
“我不会假装冷，但我很酷。他对他的女儿做了什么？

‘I’ve no idea.’
'我不知道。'

‘Don’t you take any interest?’ Rosier demanded with his sense that she too was irritating.
“你不感兴趣吗？”罗齐尔感觉她也很烦人，问道。

For a moment she answered nothing; then, ‘No!’ she said abruptly and with a quickened light in her eyes which directly contradicted the word.
有那么一会儿，她什么也没回答。然后，“不！”她突然说道，眼睛里闪烁着光芒，这与这个词直接矛盾。

‘Pardon me if I don’t believe that. Where’s Miss Osmond?’
‘如果我不相信的话，请原谅我。奥斯蒙德小姐在哪儿？

‘In the corner, making tea. Please leave her there.’
“在角落里泡茶。请把她留在那里。

Rosier instantly discovered his friend, who had been hidden by intervening groups. He watched her, but her own attention was entirely given to her occupation. ‘What on earth has he done to her?’ he asked again imploringly. ‘He declares to me she has given me up.’
罗齐尔立即发现了他的朋友，他被干预团体藏了起来。他看着她，但她的注意力完全集中在她的工作上。 “他到底对她做了什么？”他再次恳求地问道。 “他向我宣称她已经放弃了我。”

‘She has not given you up,’ Isabel said in a low tone and without looking at him.
“她没有放弃你。”伊莎贝尔低声说道，没有看他。

‘Ah, thank you for that! Now I’ll leave her alone as long as you think proper!’
‘啊，谢谢你！现在只要你觉得合适，我就让她一个人待着！”

He had hardly spoken when he saw her change colour, and became aware that Osmond was coming toward her accompanied by the gentleman who had just entered. He judged the latter, in spite of the advantage of good looks and evident social experience, a little embarrassed. ‘Isabel,’ said her husband, ‘I bring you an old friend.’
他刚说话，就看到她脸色变色，意识到奥斯蒙德在刚刚进来的那位绅士的陪同下朝她走来。他认为后者尽管具有英俊的外表和明显的社会经验的优势，但还是有点尴尬。 “伊莎贝尔，”她的丈夫说，“我给你带来了一位老朋友。”

Mrs. Osmond’s face, though it wore a smile, was, like her old friend’s, not perfectly confident. ‘I’m very happy to see Lord Warburton,’ she said. Rosier turned away and, now that his talk with her had been interrupted, felt absolved from the little pledge he had just taken. He had a quick impression that Mrs. Osmond wouldn’t notice what he did.
奥斯蒙德夫人的脸上虽然挂着微笑，但和她的老朋友一样，并不完全自信。 “我很高兴见到沃伯顿勋爵，”她说。罗齐尔转过身去，现在他和她的谈话被打断了，他觉得自己刚刚做出的小小的承诺已经得到了宽恕。他很快就感觉到奥斯蒙德夫人不会注意到他所做的事情。

Isabel in fact, to do him justice, for some time quite ceased to observe him. She had been startled; she hardly knew if she felt a pleasure or a pain. Lord Warburton, however, now that he was face to face with her, was plainly quite sure of his own sense of the matter; though his grey eyes had still their fine original property of keeping recognition and attestation strictly sincere. He was ‘heavier’ than of yore and looked older; he stood there very solidly and sensibly.
事实上，公平地说，伊莎贝尔有一段时间不再观察他了。她吓了一跳。她几乎不知道自己是感到快乐还是痛苦。然而，沃伯顿勋爵现在与她面对面，显然对自己对此事的感觉非常确定。尽管他的灰色眼睛仍然保持着其优良的原始特性，保持着绝对真诚的认可和证明。他比以前“更重”了，看上去也更老了。他非常坚定、理智地站在那里。

‘I suppose you didn’t expect to see me,’ he said; ‘I’ve but just arrived. Literally, I only got here this evening. You see I’ve lost no time in coming to pay you my respects. I knew you were at home on Thursdays.’
“我猜你没想到会见到我，”他说。 ‘我才刚到。说实话，我今天晚上才到这里。你瞧，我不失时机地来向你致敬。我知道你周四在家。”

‘You see the fame of your Thursdays has spread to England,’ Osmond remarked to his wife.
“你看，你的星期四的名声已经传遍了英国，”奥斯蒙德对他的妻子说道。

‘It’s very kind of Lord Warburton to come so soon; we’re greatly flattered,’ Isabel said.
“沃伯顿勋爵这么快就来真是太好了；我们非常受宠若惊，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘Ah well, it’s better than stopping in one of those horrible inns,’ Osmond went on.
“啊，好吧，这比停在那些可怕的旅馆里要好，”奥斯蒙德继续说道。

‘The hotel seems very good; I think it’s the same at which I saw you four years since. You know it was here in Rome that we first met; it’s a long time ago. Do you remember where I bade you good-bye?’ his lordship asked of his hostess. ‘It was in the Capitol, in the first room.’
‘这家酒店看起来很好；我想四年后我见到你时也是这样。你知道我们第一次见面是在罗马。这是很久以前的事了。你还记得我在哪里向你告别的吗？”勋爵问女主人。 “那是在国会大厦的第一个房间里。”

‘I remember that myself,’ said Osmond. ‘I was there at the time.’
“我自己也记得，”奥斯蒙德说。 “当时我就在那里。”

‘Yes, I remember you there. I was very sorry to leave Rome-so sorry that, somehow or other, it became almost a dismal memory, and I’ve never cared to come back till to-day. But I knew you were living here,’ her old friend went on to Isabel, ‘and I assure you I’ve often thought of you. It must be a charming place to live in,’ he added with a look, round him, at her established home, in which she might have caught the dim ghost of his old ruefulness.
“是的，我记得你在那里。我对离开罗马感到非常遗憾——非常抱歉，不知何故，这几乎成了一段令人沮丧的记忆，直到今天我才想回来。但我知道你住在这里，”她的老朋友继续对伊莎贝尔说，“我向你保证，我经常想起你。这一定是一个迷人的居住地，”他补充道，环顾四周，看看她既定的家，她可能在家里看到了他过去的悲伤的模糊幽灵。

‘We should have been glad to see you at any time,’ Osmond observed with propriety.
“我们随时都应该很高兴见到你，”奥斯蒙德礼貌地说道。

‘Thank you very much. I haven’t been out of England since then. Till a month ago I really supposed my travels over.’
'非常感谢。从那以后我就没有离开过英国。直到一个月前，我还真的以为我的旅行结束了。

‘I’ve heard of you from time to time,’ said Isabel, who had already, with her rare capacity for such inward feats, taken the measure of what meeting him again meant for her.
“我时常听说过你，”伊莎贝尔说，她已经凭借她罕见的内心壮举的能力，衡量了再次见到他对她意味着什么。

‘I hope you’ve heard no harm. My life has been a remarkably complete blank.’
“我希望你没有听到任何伤害。我的生活一片空白。

‘Like the good reigns in history,’ Osmond suggested. He appeared to think his duties as a host now terminated-he had performed them so conscientiously. Nothing could have been more adequate, more nicely measured, than his courtesy to his wife’s old friend. It was punctilious, it was explicit, it was everything but natural-a deficiency which Lord Warburton, who, himself, had on the whole a good deal of nature, may be supposed to have perceived. ‘I’ll leave you and Mrs. Osmond together,’ he added. ‘You have reminiscences into which I don’t enter.’
“就像历史上的美好统治一样，”奥斯蒙德建议道。他似乎认为他作为东道主的职责现在已经结束了——他已经尽职尽责地履行了这些职责。没有什么比他对妻子的老朋友的礼貌更充分、更分寸的了。它是一丝不苟的，它是明确的，它完全不自然——沃伯顿勋爵本人总体上具有很多自然性，可能应该已经意识到了这一缺陷。 “我会让你和奥斯蒙德夫人在一起，”他补充道。 “你有我不参与的回忆。”

‘I’m afraid you lose a good deal!’ Lord Warburton called after him, as he moved away, in a tone which perhaps betrayed overmuch an appreciation of his generosity. Then the visitor turned on Isabel the deeper, the deepest, consciousness of his look, which gradually became more serious. ‘I’m really very glad to see you.’
“恐怕你会损失惨重！”沃伯顿勋爵在他走开时在他身后喊道，他的语气或许暴露了他对他慷慨的过分欣赏。然后，来访者转向伊莎贝尔，他的神情变得更深、最深，逐渐变得更加严肃。 “见到你我真的很高兴。”

‘It’s very pleasant. You’re very kind.’
‘这非常令人愉快。你好亲切。'

‘Do you know that you’re changed-a little?’
“你知道你变了——一点点吗？”

She just hesitated. ‘Yes-a good deal.’
她只是犹豫了一下。 “是的——很划算。”

‘I don’t mean for the worse, of course; and yet how can I say for the better?’
“当然，我的意思并不是变得更糟；但我还能怎么说更好呢？

‘I think I shall have no scruple in saying that to you,’ she bravely returned.
“我想我会毫无顾忌地对你说这句话，”她勇敢地回答道。

‘Ah well, for me-it’s a long time. It would be a pity there shouldn’t be something to show for it.’ They sat down and she asked him about his sisters, with other enquiries of a somewhat perfunctory kind. He answered her questions as if they interested him, and in a few moments she saw-or believed she saw-that he would press with less of his whole weight than of yore. Time had breathed upon his heart and, without chilling it, given it a relieved sense of having taken the air. Isabel felt her usual esteem for Time rise at a bound. Her friend’s manner was certainly that of a contented man, one who would rather like people, or like her at least, to know him for such.
‘啊，好吧，对我来说——这已经是很长一段时间了。可惜没有什么可展示的。”他们坐下来，她问起他的姐妹们，还有其他一些有些敷衍的询问。他回答了她的问题，就好像这些问题让他感兴趣一样，过了一会儿，她看到了——或者相信她看到了——他会用比以前更少的全部重量。时间在他的心上吹了一口气，但并没有让他感到寒冷，反而给了他一种如释重负的感觉。伊莎贝尔感到她平时对时间的尊重猛增。她朋友的态度无疑是一个心满意足的男人的态度，一个宁愿喜欢别人，或者至少喜欢她，因为这样而认识他的人。

‘There’s something I must tell you without more delay,’ he resumed.
“有件事我必须立即告诉你，”他继续说道。

‘I’ve brought Ralph Touchett with me.’
“我把拉尔夫·图切特带来了。”

‘Brought him with you?’ Isabel’s surprise was great.
“把他也带来了？”伊莎贝尔大吃一惊。

‘He’s at the hotel; he was too tired to come out and has gone to bed.’
“他在旅馆里；他太累了，无法出来，已经上床睡觉了。”

‘I’ll go to see him,’ she immediately said.
“我去看看他。”她立即说道。

‘That’s exactly what I hoped you’d do. I had an idea you hadn’t seen much of him since your marriage, that in fact your relations were a-a little more formal. That’s why I hesitated-like an awkward Briton.’
‘这正是我希望你做的。我猜自从结婚以来你就没怎么见过他，事实上你们的关系有点正式。这就是为什么我犹豫不决——就像一个笨拙的英国人一样。

‘I’m as fond of Ralph as ever,’ Isabel answered. ‘But why has he come to Rome?’ The declaration was very gentle, the question a little sharp.
“我一如既往地喜欢拉尔夫，”伊莎贝尔回答道。 “但是他为什么来罗马？”声明非常温和，问题却有点尖锐。

‘Because he’s very far gone, Mrs. Osmond.’
“因为他已经走得很远了，奥斯蒙德夫人。”

‘Rome then is no place for him. I heard from him that he had determined to give up his custom of wintering abroad and to remain in England, indoors, in what he called an artificial climate.’
“那么罗马就不再适合他了。我听他说，他决定放弃在国外过冬的习惯，留在英国的室内，在他所谓的人工气候中。

‘Poor fellow, he doesn’t succeed with the artificial! I went to see him three weeks ago, at Gardencourt, and found him thoroughly ill. He has been getting worse every year, and now he has no strength left. He smokes no more cigarettes! He had got up an artificial climate indeed; the house was as hot as Calcutta. Nevertheless he had suddenly taken it into his head to start for Sicily. I didn’t believe in it-neither did the doctors, nor any of his friends. His mother, as I suppose you know, is in America, so there was no one to prevent him. He stuck to his idea that it would be the saving of him to spend the winter at Catania. He said he could take servants and furniture, could make himself comfortable, but in point of fact he hasn’t brought anything. I wanted him at least to go by sea, to save fatigue; but he said he hated the sea and wished to stop at Rome. After that, though I thought it all rubbish, I made up my mind to come with him. I’m acting as-what do you call it in America? a kind of moderator. Poor Ralph’s very moderate now. We left England a fortnight ago, and he has been very bad on the way. He can’t keep warm, and the further south we come the more he feels the cold. He has got rather a good man, but I’m afraid he’s beyond human help. I wanted him to take with him some clever fellow-=I mean some sharp young doctor; but he wouldn’t hear of it. If you don’t mind my saying so, I think it was a most extraordinary time for Mrs. Touchett to decide on going to America.’
‘可怜的家伙，他的人造物没有成功！三周前我去花园阁看望他，发现他病得很厉害。他的身体一年比一年差，现在已经没有力气了。他不再抽烟了！他确实创造了一种人造气候；房子里像加尔各答一样热。尽管如此，他还是突然决定出发前往西西里岛。我不相信这一点——医生也不相信，他的朋友也不相信。我想你知道，他的母亲在美国，所以没有人阻止他。他坚持自己的想法，认为在卡塔尼亚过冬可以拯救他。他说他可以带仆人和家具，可以让自己舒服，但事实上他什么也没带。我希望他至少走海路，以免疲劳；但他说他讨厌大海，希望在罗马停留。后来我虽然觉得这都是废话，但还是决定跟他走。我扮演的角色——在美国你怎么称呼它？一种主持人。可怜的拉尔夫现在很温和。我们两周前离开了英格兰，他在路上表现得很糟糕。他不能保暖，而且越往南走，他就越觉得冷。他是一个相当不错的人，但我担心他是非人所能帮助的。我想让他带上一些聪明的家伙——=我的意思是一些聪明的年轻医生；但他不肯听。如果你不介意我这么说的话，我认为对于图切特夫人来说，决定去美国是一个非常不寻常的时刻。

Isabel had listened eagerly; her face was full of pain and wonder. ‘My aunt does that at fixed periods and lets nothing turn her aside. When the date comes round she starts; I think she’d have started if Ralph had been dying.’
伊莎贝尔热切地听着。她的脸上充满痛苦和惊奇。 “我姨妈会在固定的时间这样做，并且不让任何事情阻止她。当约会到来时，她开始；我想如果拉尔夫快要死了，她就会开始了。

‘I sometimes think he is dying,’ Lord Warburton said.
“我有时认为他快要死了，”沃伯顿勋爵说。

Isabel sprang up. ‘I’ll go to him then now.’
伊莎贝尔跳了起来。 “那我现在就去找他。”

He checked her; he was a little disconcerted at the quick effect of his words. ‘I don’t mean I thought so to-night. On the contrary, to-day, in the train, he seemed particularly well; the idea of our reaching Rome-he’s very fond of Rome, you know-gave him strength. An hour ago, when I bade him good-night, he told me he was very tired, but very happy. Go to him in the morning; that’s all I mean. I didn’t tell him I was coming here; I didn’t decide to till after we had separated. Then I remembered he had told me you had an evening, and that it was this very Thursday. It occurred to me to come in and tell you he’s here, and let you know you had perhaps better not wait for him to call. I think he said he hadn’t written to you.’ There was no need of Isabel’s declaring that she would act upon Lord Warburton’s information; she looked, as she sat there, like a winged creature held back. ‘Let alone that I wanted to see you myself,’ her visitor gallantly added.
他检查了她；他对自己的话如此迅速的效果感到有些不安。 “我并不是说我今晚这么想的。相反，今天在火车上，他显得特别好；我们到达罗马的想法——你知道，他非常喜欢罗马——给了他力量。一小时前，当我向他道晚安时，他告诉我他很累，但很高兴。早上去找他；这就是我的意思。我没有告诉他我要来这里；我没有告诉他我要来这里。直到我们分开后我才决定。然后我想起他告诉我你度过了一个晚上，而且就在这个星期四。我突然想到要进来告诉你他在这里，并让你知道你最好不要等他打电话。我想他说他没有写信给你。” 伊莎贝尔没有必要声明她会根据沃伯顿勋爵的信息采取行动；她已经知道了。当她坐在那里时，她看上去就像一只被束缚住的长着翅膀的生物。 “更不用说我想亲自见见你了，”她的访客殷勤地补充道。

‘I don’t understand Ralph’s plan; it seems to me very wild,’ she said.
“我不明白拉尔夫的计划；在我看来这很疯狂，”她说。

‘I was glad to think of him between those thick walls at Gardencourt.’
“我很高兴在花园庭院那些厚墙之间想起他。”

‘He was completely alone there; the thick walls were his only company.’
“他在那里完全孤身一人；厚厚的墙壁是他唯一的陪伴。

‘You went to see him; you’ve been extremely kind.’
‘你去看他了；你非常友善。”

‘Oh dear, I had nothing to do,’ said Lord Warburton.
“天哪，我没什么可做的，”沃伯顿勋爵说。

‘We hear, on the contrary, that you’re doing great things. Every one speaks of you as a great statesman, and I’m perpetually seeing your name in the Times, which, by the way, doesn’t appear to hold it in reverence. You’re apparently as wild a radical as ever.’
‘相反，我们听说你正在做伟大的事情。每个人都称你为一位伟大的政治家，我总是在《泰晤士报》上看到你的名字，顺便说一句，《泰晤士报》似乎并不尊重你。你显然还是一如既往的疯狂激进分子。

‘I don’t feel nearly so wild; you know the world has come round to me. Touchett and I have kept up a sort of parliamentary debate all the way from London. I tell him he’s the last of the Tories, and he calls me the King of the Goths-says I have, down to the details of my personal appearance, every sign of the brute. So you see there’s life in him yet.’
“我不觉得自己那么狂野；你知道世界已经转向我了。塔切特和我从伦敦一路出发，一直在进行某种议会辩论。我告诉他，他是最后一个托利党人，他称我为哥特人之王，说我从个人外表的细节来看，都带有野蛮人的特征。所以你看他身上还有生命。”

Isabel had many questions to ask about Ralph, but she abstained from asking them all. She would see for herself on the morrow. She perceived that after a little Lord Warburton would tire of that subject-he had a conception of other possible topics. She was more and more able to say to herself that he had recovered, and, what is more to the point, she was able to say it without bitterness. He had been for her, of old, such an image of urgency, of insistence, of something to be resisted and reasoned with, that his reappearance at first menaced her with a new trouble. But she was now reassured; she could see he only wished to live with her on good terms, that she was to understand he had forgiven her and was incapable of the bad taste of making pointed allusions. This was not a form of revenge, of course; she had no suspicion of his wishing to punish her by an exhibition of disillusionment; she did him the justice to believe it had simply occurred to him that she would now take a good-natured interest in knowing he was resigned. It was the resignation of a healthy, manly nature, in which sentimental wounds could never fester. British politics had cured him; she had known they would. She gave an envious thought to the happier lot of men, who are always free to plunge into the healing waters of action. Lord Warburton of course spoke of the past, but he spoke of it without implications; he even went so far as to allude to their former meeting in Rome as a very jolly time. And he told her he had been immensely interested in hearing of her marriage and that it was a great pleasure for him to make Mr. Osmond’s acquaintance-since he could hardly be said to have made it on the other occasion. He had not written to her at the time of that passage in her history, but he didn’t apologize to her for this. The only thing he implied was that they were old friends, intimate friends. It was very much as an intimate friend that he said to her, suddenly, after a short pause which he had occupied in smiling, as he looked about him, like a person amused, at a provincial entertainment, by some innocent game of guesses
伊莎贝尔有很多关于拉尔夫的问题要问，但她没有问所有的问题。明天她会亲自去看看。她发现沃伯顿勋爵过了一会儿就会厌倦这个话题——他对其他可能的话题有了一个构想。她越来越能够对自己说，他已经康复了，而且，更重要的是，她能够不带苦涩地说出来。过去，他对她来说是一种紧迫、坚持、需要抵制和推理的形象，以至于他的出现一开始就给她带来了新的麻烦。但现在她放心了；她看得出来，他只是想和她和睦相处，她应该明白他已经原谅了她，不能有尖刻暗示的坏品味。当然，这并不是一种报复；而是一种报复。她并不怀疑他想通过表现出幻灭来惩罚她。她公平地对待他，相信他只是想到，她现在会善意地知道他辞职了。这是对健康、男子气概的放弃，情感上的伤口永远不会溃烂。英国政治治愈了他。她就知道他们会的。她对那些更幸福的男人产生了羡慕的想法，他们总是可以自由地投入到行动的治愈之水中。沃伯顿勋爵当然谈到了过去，但他谈到它时没有任何暗示。他甚至提到他们之前在罗马的会面是一次非常愉快的时光。他告诉她，他对她结婚的消息非常感兴趣，并且很高兴结识奥斯蒙德先生——因为很难说他在其他场合也曾结识过。 在她的历史发生那段时期时，他还没有写信给她，但他也没有为此向她道歉。他唯一暗示的是，他们是老朋友，亲密的朋友。 他非常像一位亲密的朋友，在短暂的停顿之后，他微笑着，突然对她说道，他环顾四周，就像一个人在地方娱乐活动中，被某种无辜的猜测游戏逗乐了。

-”Well now, I suppose you’re very happy and all that sort of thing?’
-“现在，我想你很高兴，诸如此类的事情？”

Isabel answered with a quick laugh; the tone of his remark struck her almost as the accent of comedy. ‘Do you suppose if I were not I’d tell you?’ ‘Well, I don’t know. I don’t see why not.’
伊莎贝尔大笑起来。他这句话的语气让她觉得几乎像是喜剧的口音。 “你认为如果我不存在，我会告诉你吗？” “嗯，我不知道。我不明白为什么不。

‘I do then. Fortunately, however, I’m very happy.’
‘那么我愿意。不过幸运的是，我很高兴。

‘You’ve got an awfully good house.’
“你有一所非常好的房子。”

‘Yes, it’s very pleasant. But that’s not my merit-it’s my husband’s.’
‘是的，这非常令人愉快。但这不是我的优点，而是我丈夫的优点。”

‘You mean he has arranged it?’
“你的意思是他已经安排好了？”

‘Yes, it was nothing when we came.’
“是的，我们来的时候没什么。”

‘He must be very clever.’
“他一定很聪明。”

‘He has a genius for upholstery,’ said Isabel.
“他在室内装饰方面很有天赋，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘There’s a great rage for that sort of thing now. But you must have a taste of your own.’
“现在人们对这类事情非常愤怒。但你必须有自己的品味。

‘I enjoy things when they’re done, but I’ve no ideas. I can never propose anything.’
“当事情完成时我很享受，但我没有想法。我永远无法提出任何建议。

‘Do you mean you accept what others propose?’
“你的意思是你接受了别人的建议吗？”

‘Very willingly, for the most part.’
“在很大程度上，非常愿意。”

‘That’s a good thing to know. I shall propose to you something.’
‘知道这一点是件好事。我将向你提出一些建议。

‘It will be very kind. I must say, however, that I’ve in a few small ways a certain initiative. I should like for instance to introduce you to some of these people.’
‘这将是非常友善的。然而，我必须说，我在一些小方面有一定的主动性。例如，我想向您介绍其中一些人。

‘Oh, please don’t; I prefer sitting here. Unless it be to that young lady in the blue dress. She has a charming face.’
‘哦，请不要这样；我更喜欢坐在这里。除非是那个穿蓝裙子的小姐。她有一张迷人的脸。

‘The one talking to the rosy young man? That’s my husband’s daughter.’
‘和红润青年说话的那个人？那是我丈夫的女儿。

‘Lucky man, your husband. What a dear little maid!
‘幸运的人，你的丈夫。多么可爱的小女仆呀！

‘You must make her acquaintance.’
“你必须认识她。”

‘In a moment-with pleasure. I like looking at her from here.’ He ceased to look at her, however, very soon; his eyes constantly reverted to Mrs. Osmond. ‘Do you know I was wrong just now in saying you had changed?’ he presently went on. ‘You seem to me, after all, very much the same.’
‘就在那一刻——带着愉快的心情。 “我喜欢从这里看她。”然而，他很快就不再看她了；他不再看她了。他的目光不断地转向奥斯蒙德夫人。 “你知道我刚才说你变了是错的吗？”他接着说道。 “毕竟，在我看来，你非常相似。”

‘And yet I find it a great change to be married,’ said Isabel with mild gaiety.
“然而，我发现结婚是一个巨大的改变，”伊莎贝尔温和地高兴地说。

‘It affects most people more than it has affected you. You see I haven’t gone in for that.’
“它对大多数人的影响比对你的影响还要大。你看我并没有参与其中。

‘It rather surprises me.’
“这让我很惊讶。”

‘You ought to understand it, Mrs. Osmond. But I do want to marry,’ he added more simply.
“你应该明白这一点，奥斯蒙德夫人。但我确实想结婚，”他更简单地补充道。

‘It ought to be very easy,’ Isabel said, rising-after which she reflected, with a pang perhaps too visible, that she was hardly the person to say this. It was perhaps because Lord Warburton divined the pang that he generously forbore to call her attention to her not having contributed then to the facility.
“这应该很容易，”伊莎贝尔站起来说道，然后她想到，她几乎不是说这句话的人，心里的痛苦也许太明显了。也许是因为沃伯顿勋爵预见到了这种痛苦，所以他慷慨地没有引起她的注意，因为她当时没有为该设施做出贡献。

Edward Rosier had meanwhile seated himself on an ottoman beside Pansy’s tea-table. He pretended at first to talk to her about trifles, and she asked him who was the new gentleman conversing with her stepmother.
与此同时，爱德华·罗齐尔坐在潘西茶几旁边的脚凳上。他一开始假装和她谈论一些琐事，她问他和她继母谈话的新绅士是谁。

‘He’s an English lord,’ said Rosier. ‘I don’t know more.’
“他是一位英国勋爵，”罗齐尔说。 “我不知道更多了。”

‘I wonder if he’ll have some tea. The English are so fond of tea.’
“我想知道他是否会喝点茶。英国人非常喜欢茶。”

‘Never mind that; I’ve something particular to say to you.’
'不要管那个;我有一些特别的事情要对你说。

‘Don’t speak so loud-every one will hear,’ said Pansy.
“别这么大声——每个人都会听到，”潘西说。

‘They won’t hear if you continue to look that way; as if your only thought in life was the wish the kettle would boil.’
“如果你继续那样看，他们就不会听到；就好像你生命中唯一的想法就是希望水壶烧开一样。”

‘It has just been filled; the servants never know!’-she sighed with the weight of her responsibility.
‘它刚刚被填满；仆人们永远不会知道！”——她因自己责任的沉重而叹了口气。

‘Do you know what your father said to me just now? That you didn’t mean what you said a week ago.’
“你知道你父亲刚才对我说了什么吗？你一周前说的话并不是真心的。”

‘I don’t mean everything I say. How can a young girl do that? But I mean what I say to you.’
‘我所说的一切并不是真心的。一个年轻女孩怎么能做出这样的事？但我对你说的话是认真的。

‘He told me you had forgotten me.’
“他告诉我你已经忘记我了。”

‘Ah no, I don’t forget,’ said Pansy, showing her pretty teeth in a fixed smile.
“啊不，我没有忘记。”潘西说道，脸上挂着坚定的微笑，露出漂亮的牙齿。

‘Then everything’s just the very same?’
“那么一切都一模一样了？”

‘Ah no, not the very same. Papa has been terribly severe.’
‘啊不，不一样。爸爸非常严厉。

‘What has he done to you?’
“他对你做了什么？”

‘He asked me what you had done to me, and I told him everything. Then he forbade me to marry you.’
“他问我你对我做了什么，我告诉了他一切。然后他禁止我嫁给你。

‘You needn’t mind that.’
“你不必介意。”

‘Oh yes, I must indeed. I can’t disobey papa.’
“哦，是的，我确实必须这样做。我不能违背爸爸的命令。

‘Not for one who loves you as I do, and whom you pretend to love?’
“不是为了一个像我一样爱你的人，而你假装爱的人吗？”

She raised the lid of the tea-pot, gazing into this vessel for a moment; then she dropped six words into its aromatic depths. ‘I love you just as much.’
她掀起茶壶的盖子，凝视了一会儿。然后她在芳香的深处吐出了六个词。 “我也同样爱你。”

‘What good will that do me?’
“这对我有什么好处？”

‘Ah,’ said Pansy, raising her sweet, vague eyes, ‘I don’t know that.’
“啊，”潘西抬起她甜美而模糊的眼睛说道，“我不知道。”

‘You disappoint me,’ groaned poor Rosier.
“你让我失望了，”可怜的罗齐尔抱怨道。

She was silent a little; she handed a tea-cup to a servant. ‘Please don’t talk any more.’
她沉默了一会儿。她将茶杯递给仆人。 “请不要再说话了。”

‘Is this to be all my satisfaction?’
“这就是我的全部满足吗？”

‘Papa said I was not to talk with you.’
“爸爸说我不能和你说话。”

‘Do you sacrifice me like that? Ah, it’s too much!
‘你就这样牺牲我吗？啊，太过分了！

‘I wish you’d wait a little,’ said the girl in a voice just distinct enough to betray a quaver.
“我希望你等一下，”女孩说道，声音清晰得足以暴露出颤抖。

‘Of course I’ll wait if you’ll give me hope. But you take my life away.’
“如果你给我希望，我当然会等待。但你夺走了我的生命。

‘I’ll not give you up-oh no!’ Pansy went on.
“我不会放弃你——哦不！”潘西继续说道。

‘He’ll try and make you marry some one else.’
“他会试图让你嫁给别人。”

‘I’ll never do that.’
“我永远不会那样做。”

‘What then are we to wait for?’
“那我们还等什么呢？”

She hesitated again. ‘I’ll speak to Mrs. Osmond and she’ll help us.’ It was in this manner that she for the most part designated her stepmother.
她又犹豫了。 “我会和奥斯蒙德夫人谈谈，她会帮助我们。”她在很大程度上就是这样指定她的继母的。

‘She won’t help us much. She’s afraid.’
‘她不会给我们太大帮助。她很害怕。

‘Afraid of what?’
'怕什么？'

‘Of your father, I suppose.’
“我想是你父亲的。”

Pansy shook her little head. ‘She’s not afraid of any one. We must have patience.’
Pansy摇摇头。 ‘她谁都不怕。我们必须要有耐心。

‘Ah, that’s an awful word,’ Rosier groaned; he was deeply disconcerted. Oblivious of the customs of good society, he dropped his head into his hands and, supporting it with a melancholy grace, sat staring at the carpet. Presently he became aware of a good deal of movement about him and, as he looked up, saw Pansy making a curtsey-it was still her little curtsey of the convent-to the English lord whom Mrs. Osmond had introduced.
“啊，这真是一个可怕的词，”罗齐尔呻吟道。他深感不安。他无视上流社会的习俗，把头埋在双手中，以一种忧郁的优雅支撑着它，坐在那儿盯着地毯。不久，他意识到自己周围有很多动静，当他抬起头时，看到潘西正在向奥斯蒙德夫人介绍的英国勋爵行屈膝礼——这仍然是她在修道院行的小屈膝礼。

Chapter 19
第19章

It will probably not surprise the reflective reader that Ralph Touchett should have seen less of his cousin since her marriage than he had done before that event of which he took such a view as could hardly prove a confirmation of intimacy. He had uttered his thought, as we know, and after this had held his peace, Isabel not having invited him to resume a discussion which marked an era in their relations. That discussion had made a difference-the difference he feared rather than the one he hoped. It had not chilled the girl’s zeal in carrying out her engagement, but it had come dangerously near to spoiling a friendship. No reference was ever again made between them to Ralph’s opinion of Gilbert Osmond, and by surrounding this topic with a sacred silence they managed to preserve a semblance of reciprocal frankness. But there was a difference, as Ralph often said to himself-there was a difference. She had not forgiven him, she never would forgive him: that was all he had gained. She thought she had forgiven him; she believed she didn’t care; and as she was both very generous and very proud these convictions represented a certain reality. But whether or no the event should justify him he would virtually have done her a wrong, and the wrong was of the sort that women remember best. As Osmond’s wife she could never again be his friend. If in this character she should enjoy the felicity she expected, she would have nothing but contempt for the man who had attempted, in advance, to undermine a blessing so dear; and if on the other hand his warning should be justified the vow she had taken that he should never know it would lay upon her spirit such a burden as to make her hate him. So dismal had been, during the year that followed his cousin’s marriage, Ralph’s prevision of the future; and if his meditations appear morbid we must remember he was not in the bloom of health. He consoled himself as he might by behaving (as he deemed) beautifully, and was present at the ceremony by which Isabel was united to Mr. Osmond, and which was performed in Florence in the month of June. He learned from his mother that Isabel at first had thought of celebrating her nuptials in her native land, but that as simplicity was what she chiefly desired to secure she had finally decided, in spite of Osmond’s professed willingness to make a journey of any length, that this characteristic would be best embodied in their being married by the nearest clergyman in the shortest time. The thing was done therefore at the little American chapel, on a very hot day, in the presence only of Mrs. Touchett and her son, of Pansy Osmond and the Countess Gemini. That severity in the proceedings of which I just spoke was in part the result of the absence of two persons who might have been looked for on the occasion and who would have lent it a certain richness. Madame Merle had been invited, but Madame Merle, who was unable to leave Rome, had written a gracious letter of excuses. Henrietta Stackpole had not been invited, as her departure from America, announced to Isabel by Mr. Goodwood, was in fact frustrated by the duties of her profession; but she had sent a letter, less gracious than Madame Merle’s, intimating that, had she been able to cross the Atlantic, she would have been present not only as a witness but as a critic. Her return to Europe had taken place somewhat later, and she had effected a meeting with Isabel in the autumn, in Paris, when she had indulged-perhaps a trifle too freely-her critical genius. Poor Osmond, who was chiefly the subject of it, had protested so sharply that Henrietta was obliged to declare to Isabel that she had taken a step which put a barrier between them. ‘It isn’t in the least that you’ve married-it is that you have married him,’ she had deemed it her duty to remark; agreeing, it will be seen, much more with Ralph Touchett than she suspected, though she had few of his hesitations and compunctions. Henrietta’s second visit to Europe, however, was not apparently to have been made in vain; for just at the moment when Osmond had declared to Isabel that he really must object to that newspaper-woman, and Isabel had answered that it seemed to her he took Henrietta too hard, the good Mr. Bantling had appeared upon the scene and proposed that they should take a run down to Spain. Henrietta’s letters from Spain had proved the most acceptable she had yet published, and there had been one in especial, dated from the Alhambra and entitled ‘Moors and Moonlight,’ which generally passed for her masterpiece. Isabel had been secretly disappointed at her husband’s not seeing his way simply to take the poor girl for funny. She even wondered if his sense of fun, or of the funny-which would be his sense of humour, wouldn’t it?-were by chance defective. Of course she herself looked at the matter as a person whose present happiness had nothing to grudge to Henrietta’s violated conscience. Osmond had thought their alliance a kind of monstrosity; he couldn’t imagine what they had in common. For him, Mr. Bantling’s fellow tourist was simply the most vulgar of women, and he had also pronounced her the most abandoned. Against this latter clause of the verdict Isabel had appealed with an ardour that had made him wonder afresh at the oddity of some of his wife’s tastes. Isabel could explain it only by saying that she liked to know people who were as different as possible from herself. ‘Why then don’t you make the acquaintance of your washerwoman?’ Osmond had enquired; to which Isabel had answered that she was afraid her washerwoman wouldn’t care for her. Now Henrietta cared so much.
深思熟虑的读者可能不会感到惊讶，拉尔夫·图切特自从他的表妹结婚后，与她见面的次数应该比在那次事件之前少，他认为这件事很难证明亲密关系的确认。正如我们所知，他说出了自己的想法，此后他保持了沉默，伊莎贝尔没有邀请他继续进行标志着他们关系中一个时代的讨论。那次讨论产生了影响——这是他所担心的而不是他所希望的。这并没有冷却女孩履行订婚的热情，但它已经危险地接近破坏友谊。他们之间再也没有提及拉尔夫对吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德的看法，并且通过以神圣的沉默围绕这个话题，他们设法保持了一种相互坦诚的表象。但正如拉尔夫经常对自己说的那样，这是有区别的——有区别。她没有原谅他，她永远不会原谅他：这就是他所获得的一切。她以为自己已经原谅了他；但事实上，她已经原谅了他。她相信自己不在乎；由于她既非常慷慨又非常自豪，这些信念代表了一定的现实。但无论这件事是否应该证明他是正当的，他实际上都对她做了错事，而这种错事是女人记得最清楚的。作为奥斯蒙德的妻子，她永远不可能再成为他的朋友。如果以这种性格，她能享受到她所期待的幸福，那么她只会对这个预先试图破坏如此珍贵的祝福的男人表示蔑视。另一方面，如果他的警告是合理的，她发誓他永远不会知道，这会给她的精神带来如此沉重的负担，使她恨他。 在他表弟结婚后的一年里，拉尔夫对未来的预见是如此悲观。如果他的沉思显得病态，我们必须记住他的健康状况并不好。他尽其所能地通过（他认为的）表现得很漂亮来安慰自己，并出席了伊莎贝尔与奥斯蒙德先生结合的仪式，该仪式于六月在佛罗伦萨举行。他从母亲那里得知，伊莎贝尔起初想在祖国庆祝她的婚礼，但由于简单是她主要希望确保的，所以她最终决定，尽管奥斯蒙德声称愿意进行任何长度的旅行，这一特点最能体现在他们在最短的时间内与最近的牧师结婚。因此，这件事是在一个非常炎热的日子里在美国小教堂里完成的，只有图切特夫人和她的儿子、潘西·奥斯蒙德和双子座伯爵夫人在场。我刚才谈到的诉讼程序如此严峻，部分原因是当时没有两个人缺席，而他们本可以在这次活动中寻找并给这次活动带来一定的丰富性。梅尔夫人受到了邀请，但梅尔夫人无法离开罗马，因此写了一封亲切的借口信。亨丽埃塔·斯塔克波尔没有受到邀请，因为古德伍德先生向伊莎贝尔宣布，她将离开美国，实际上她对自己的职业职责感到沮丧。但她寄了一封信，不像梅尔夫人那样亲切，暗示如果她能够跨越大西洋，她不仅会作为证人，而且会作为批评者。 她返回欧洲的时间稍晚一些，秋天她在巴黎与伊莎贝尔会面，当时她沉迷于——也许有点过于自由——她的批判天才。可怜的奥斯蒙德是这件事的主要对象，他的抗议如此激烈，以至于亨利埃塔不得不向伊莎贝尔宣布，她采取了一个步骤，在他们之间设置了障碍。 “这根本不是你已经结婚了——而是你已经嫁给了他，”她认为这是她的责任；可以看出，拉尔夫·图切特对她的同意比她想象的要多得多，尽管她没有像他那样犹豫和内疚。然而，亨丽埃塔第二次访问欧洲显然并非徒劳。因为就在奥斯蒙德向伊莎贝尔宣布他确实必须反对那个女报人，而伊莎贝尔回答说在她看来他对亨利埃塔太严厉时，好心的班特林先生出现在现场并提出：他们应该跑到西班牙去。事实证明，亨利埃塔从西班牙寄来的信是她出版过的最容易被接受的信，其中有一封特别是来自阿罕布拉的信，题为《摩尔人和月光》，这封信通常被认为是她的杰作。伊莎贝尔暗自失望，因为她的丈夫没有找到自己的方式，只是把这个可怜的女孩当成搞笑的。她甚至想知道他的风趣感或滑稽感——这就是他的幽默感，不是吗？——是否偶然有缺陷。当然，她本人也认为这件事是一个目前幸福的人对亨丽埃塔被侵犯的良心没有任何怨恨的事情。奥斯蒙德认为他们的联盟是一种怪物。他无法想象他们有什么共同点。对于他来说，先生。 班特林的同伴游客简直就是最粗俗的女人，他还宣称她是最被遗弃的女人。伊莎贝尔对判决的后一项条款提出了热情的上诉，这让他重新对妻子的一些奇怪的品味感到惊讶。伊莎贝尔只能解释说，她喜欢认识尽可能与自己不同的人。 “那你为什么不认识一下你的洗衣女工呢？”奥斯蒙德问道。伊莎贝尔回答说，她担心洗衣妇不关心她。现在亨利埃塔非常关心。

Ralph had seen nothing of her for the greater part of the two years that had followed her marriage; the winter that formed the beginning of her residence in Rome he had spent again at San Remo, where he had been joined in the spring by his mother, who afterwards had gone with him to England, to see what they were doing at the bank-an operation she couldn’t induce him to perform. Ralph had taken a lease of his house at San Remo, a small villa which he had occupied still another winter; but late in the month of April of this second year he had come down to Rome. It was the first time since her marriage that he had stood face to face with Isabel; his desire to see her again was then of the keenest. She had written to him from time to time, but her letters told him nothing he wanted to know. He had asked his mother what she was making of her life, and his mother had simply answered that she supposed she was making the best of it. Mrs. Touchett had not the imagination that communes with the unseen, and she now pretended to no intimacy with her niece, whom she rarely encountered. This young woman appeared to be living in a sufficiently honourable way, but Mrs. Touchett still remained of the opinion that her marriage had been a shabby affair. It had given her no pleasure to think of Isabel’s establishment, which she was sure was a very lame business. From time to time, in Florence, she rubbed against the Countess Gemini, doing her best always to minimize the contact; and the Countess reminded her of Osmond, who made her think of Isabel. The Countess was less talked of in these days; but Mrs. Touchett augured no good of that: it only proved how she had been talked of before. There was a more direct suggestion of Isabel in the person of Madame Merle; but Madame Merle’s relations with Mrs. Touchett had undergone a perceptible change. Isabel’s aunt had told her, without circumlocution, that she had played too ingenious a part; and Madame Merle, who never quarrelled with any one, who appeared to think no one worth it, and who had performed the miracle of living, more or less, for several years with Mrs. Touchett and showing no symptom of irritation-Madame Merle now took a very high tone and declared that this was an accusation from which she couldn’t stoop to defend herself. She added, however (without stooping), that her behaviour had been only too simple, that she had believed only what she saw, that she saw Isabel was not eager to marry and Osmond not eager to please (his repeated visits had been nothing; he was boring himself to death on his hill-top and he came merely for amusement). Isabel had kept her sentiments to herself, and her journey to Greece and Egypt had effectually thrown dust in her companion’s eyes. Madame Merle accepted the event-she was unprepared to think of it as a scandal; but that she had played any part in it, double or single, was an imputation against which she proudly protested. It was doubtless in consequence of Mrs. Touchett’s attitude, and of the injury it offered to habits consecrated by many charming seasons, that Madame Merle had, after this, chosen to pass many months in England, where her credit was quite unimpaired. Mrs. Touchett had done her a wrong; there are some things that can’t be forgiven. But Madame Merle suffered in silence; there was always something exquisite in her dignity.
在她结婚后的两年里，拉尔夫几乎没有见过她。她开始在罗马居住的那个冬天，他又在圣雷莫度过了，春天的时候，他的母亲也在那里与他会合，后来他和他一起去了英国，看看他们在银行做什么——她无法诱导他进行这项手术。拉尔夫租下了他在圣雷莫的房子，那是一座小别墅，他又在里面住了一个冬天。但第二年四月底，他来到了罗马。自从她结婚以来，这是他第一次与伊莎贝尔面对面站在一起。那时他非常渴望再次见到她。她时不时地给他写信，但她的信中没有告诉他任何他想知道的事情。他问他的母亲她正在过着怎样的生活，他的母亲只是简单地回答说她认为她正在充分利用这一点。塔切特夫人没有与看不见的事物交流的想象力，现在她假装与她的侄女不亲密，她很少见到她。这位年轻女子的生活似乎十分体面，但图切特夫人仍然认为她的婚姻是一场寒酸的婚姻。想到伊莎贝尔的机构，她并没有感到高兴，她确信这是一家非常蹩脚的企业。在佛罗伦萨，她时不时地与双子伯爵夫人发生摩擦，总是尽力减少接触。伯爵夫人让她想起了奥斯蒙德，奥斯蒙德让她想起了伊莎贝尔。这些天来，人们很少谈论伯爵夫人了。但图切特夫人并不认为这有什么好处：这只能证明以前人们是如何谈论她的。 梅尔夫人对伊莎贝尔有更直接的暗示。但梅尔夫人与图切特夫人的关系发生了明显的变化。伊莎贝尔的姨妈毫不含糊地告诉她，她扮演的角色太巧妙了。还有梅尔夫人，她从不与任何人争吵，似乎认为没有人值得，而且或多或少地与图切特夫人一起生活了几年，而且没有表现出任何恼怒的症状——现在的梅尔夫人语气非常高，宣称这是一项指控，她不能屈身为自己辩护。然而，她补充道（没有弯腰），她的行为太简单了，她只相信她所看到的，她看到伊莎贝尔并不急于结婚，奥斯蒙德也不急于取悦（他的多次拜访毫无意义；他在山顶上无聊得要死，他来这里只是为了消遣）。伊莎贝尔一直对自己的感情保密，而她的希腊和埃及之旅实际上让她的同伴蒙上了灰尘。梅尔夫人接受了这件事——她没想到这会是一场丑闻；但她在其中扮演了任何角色，无论是双人还是单人，这是一种指责，她自豪地抗议。毫无疑问，正是由于图切特夫人的态度，以及这种态度对许多迷人季节所养成的习惯造成的伤害，梅尔夫人此后选择在英国度过许多个月，在那里她的信誉并没有受到损害。杜切特太太冤枉了她。有些事情是无法原谅的。但梅尔夫人却默默忍受着。她的尊严中总有一种精致的东西。

Ralph, as I say, had wished to see for himself; but while engaged in this pursuit he had yet felt afresh what a fool he had been to put the girl on her guard. He had played the wrong card, and now he had lost the game. He should see nothing, he should learn nothing; for him she would always wear a mask. His true line would have been to profess delight in her union, so that later, when, as Ralph phrased it, the bottom should fall out of it, she might have the pleasure of saying to him that he had been a goose. He would gladly have consented to pass for a goose in order to know Isabel’s real situation. At present, however, she neither taunted him with his fallacies nor pretended that her own confidence was justified; if she wore a mask it completely covered her face. There was something fixed and mechanical in the serenity painted on it; this was not an expression, Ralph said-it was a representation, it was even an advertisement. She had lost her child; that was a sorrow, but it was a sorrow she scarcely spoke of; there was more to say about it than she could say to Ralph. It belonged to the past, moreover; it had occurred six months before and she had already laid aside the tokens of mourning. She appeared to be leading the life of the world; Ralph heard her spoken of as having a ‘charming position.’ He observed that she produced the impression of being peculiarly enviable, that it was supposed, among many people, to be a privilege even to know her. Her house was not open to every one, and she had an evening in the week to which people were not invited as a matter of course. She lived with a certain magnificence, but you needed to be a member of her circle to perceive it; for there was nothing to gape at, nothing to criticize, nothing even to admire, in the daily proceedings of Mr. and Mrs. Osmond. Ralph, in all this, recognized the hand of the master; for he knew that Isabel had no faculty for producing studied impressions. She struck him as having a great love of movement, of gaiety, of late hours, of long rides, of fatigue; an eagerness to be entertained, to be interested, even to be bored, to make acquaintances, to see people who were talked about, to explore the neighbourhood of Rome, to enter into relation with certain of the mustiest relics of its old society. In all this there was much less discrimination than in that desire for comprehensiveness of development on which he had been used to exercise his wit. There was a kind of violence in some of her impulses, of crudity in some of her experiments, which took him by surprise: it seemed to him that she even spoke faster, moved faster, breathed faster, than before her marriage. Certainly she had fallen into exaggerations-she who used to care so much for the pure truth; and whereas of old she had a great delight in good-humoured argument, in intellectual play (she never looked so charming as when in the genial heat of discussion she received a crushing blow full in the face and brushed it away as a feather), she appeared now to think there was nothing worth people’s either differing about or agreeing upon. Of old she had been curious, and now she was indifferent, and yet in spite of her indifference her activity was greater than ever. Slender still, but lovelier than before, she had gained no great maturity of aspect; yet there was an amplitude and a brilliancy in her personal arrangements that gave a touch of insolence to her beauty. Poor human-hearted Isabel, what perversity had bitten her? Her light step drew a mas of drapery behind it; her intelligent head sustained a majesty of ornament. The free, keen girl had become quite another person; what he saw was the fine lady who was supposed to represent something. What did Isabel represent? Ralph asked himself; and he could only answer by saying that she represented Gilbert Osmond. ‘Good heavens, what a function!’ he then woefully exclaimed. He was lost in wonder at the mystery of things.
正如我所说，拉尔夫希望亲眼看看。但在他进行这种追求的过程中，他再次感到自己让这个女孩保持警惕是多么愚蠢。他打错了牌，现在他输了。他不应该看到任何东西，他不应该学到任何东西；为了他，她永远戴着面具。他真正的台词应该是对她的结合表示高兴，这样，当以后，正如拉尔夫所说的那样，当事情跌入谷底时，她可能会很高兴地对他说，他是一只鹅。为了了解伊莎贝尔的真实情况，他很乐意冒充一只鹅。然而现在，她既没有用他的谬论来嘲笑他，也没有假装自己的信心是有道理的；如果她戴上口罩，就会完全遮住她的脸。上面画的宁静中有某种固定的、机械的东西；拉尔夫说，这不是一种表达，而是一种表现，甚至是一则广告。她失去了孩子；那是一种悲伤，但她很少谈论这种悲伤。关于这件事她有很多话不能对拉尔夫说。而且，它已经属于过去了。这件事发生在六个月前，她已经放下了哀悼的象征。她似乎正在引领世界的生活；拉尔夫听说她拥有“迷人的地位”。他观察到，她给人一种特别令人羡慕的印象，在许多人看来，认识她也是一种荣幸。她的房子并不向所有人开放，而且每周都有一个晚上，她理所当然地不会邀请人们参加。 她的生活充满了某种华丽，但你需要成为她圈子的一员才能感受到它；因为在奥斯蒙德夫妇的日常活动中，没有什么可以目瞪口呆，没有什么可以批评，甚至没有什么可以钦佩。拉尔夫在这一切中认出了主人的手。因为他知道伊莎贝尔没有产生深思熟虑的印象的能力。她给他的印象是，她热爱运动，热爱欢乐，热爱深夜，热爱长途骑行，热爱疲劳。渴望得到娱乐，渴望感兴趣，甚至感到无聊，渴望结识，看到人们谈论的人，探索罗马的邻里，与旧社会的某些最古老的遗迹建立联系。在所有这一切中，与他用来发挥智慧的全面发展的愿望相比，歧视要少得多。她的一些冲动中有一种暴力，她的一些实验中有一种粗鲁，这让他大吃一惊：在他看来，她甚至比结婚前说话更快、动作更快、呼吸更快。当然，她已经陷入了夸张的境地——她曾经如此关心纯粹的真相；现在她却陷入了夸张的境地。过去，她非常喜欢幽默的辩论和智力游戏（在热烈的讨论中，她的脸受到了沉重的打击，然后像羽毛一样被拂开，她看起来从未如此迷人），她现在似乎认为没有什么值得人们争论或同意的。以前她很好奇，现在她变得冷漠了，尽管她冷漠了，但她的活动却比以前更加活跃。 她仍然苗条，但比以前更可爱了，但她的外表并没有变得成熟。然而，她个人的安排却充满了活力和才华，给她的美丽增添了一丝傲慢。可怜的、心地善良的伊莎贝尔，到底是什么反常行为咬伤了她呢？她轻快的脚步在身后拉起了一大片帷幔。她聪明的头脑充满了威严的装饰。那个自由、敏锐的女孩已经完全变了一个人。他看到的是一位应该代表某种东西的美丽女士。伊莎贝尔代表什么？拉尔夫问自己：他只能回答说她代表吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德。 “天哪，这真是太棒了！”然后他悲哀地喊道。他对事物的奥秘感到惊奇。

He recognized Osmond, as I say; he recognized him at every turn. He saw how he kept all things within limits; how he adjusted, regulated, animated their manner of life. Osmond was in his element; at last he had material to work with. He always had an eye to effect, and his effects were deeply calculated. They were produced by no vulgar means, but the motive was as vulgar as the art was great. To surround his interior with a sort of invidious sanctity, to tantalize society with a sense of exclusion, to make people believe his house was different from every other, to impart to the face that he presented to the world a cold originality-this was the ingenious effort of the personage to whom Isabel had attributed a superior morality. ‘He works with superior material,’ Ralph said to himself; ‘it’s rich abundance compared with his former resources.’ Ralph was a clever man; but Ralph had never-to his own sense-been so clever as when he observed, in petto, that under the guise of caring only for intrinsic values Osmond lived exclusively for the world. Far from being its master as he pretended to be, he was its very humble servant, and the degree of its attention was his only measure of success. He lived with his eye on it from morning till night, and the world was so stupid it never suspected the trick. Everything he did was pose-pose so subtly considered that if one were not on the lookout one mistook it for impulse. Ralph had never met a man who lived so much in the land of consideration. His tastes, his studies, his accomplishments, his collections, were all for a purpose. His life on his hilltop at Florence had been the conscious attitude of years. His solitude, his ennui, his love for his daughter, his good manners, his bad manners, were so many features of a mental image constantly present to him as a model of impertinence and mystification. His ambition was not to please the world, but to please himself by exciting the world’s curiosity and then declining to satisfy it. It had made him feel great, ever, to play the world a trick. The thing he had done in his life most directly to please himself was his marrying Miss Archer; though in this case indeed the gullible world was in a manner embodied in poor Isabel, who had been mystified to the top of her bent. Ralph of course found a fitness in being consistent; he had embraced a creed, and as he had suffered for it he could not in honour forsake it. I give this little sketch of its articles for what they may at the time have been worth. It was certain that he was very skilful in fitting the facts to his theory-even the fact that during the month he spent in Rome at this period the husband of the woman he loved appeared to regard him not in the least as an enemy.
正如我所说，他认出了奥斯蒙德。他每次都认出了他。他看到了自己是如何将一切都控制在限度之内的。他如何调整、规范、激励他们的生活方式。奥斯蒙德如鱼得水。他终于有了可以利用的材料。他总是着眼于效果，并且他的效果是经过深思熟虑的。它们的制作方式并不粗俗，但其动机却与伟大的艺术一样粗俗。用一种令人不快的神圣感包围他的内部，用一种排斥感来诱惑社会，让人们相信他的房子与众不同，让他向世界展示的面孔传递出一种冷酷的原创性——这就是伊莎贝尔认为其道德高尚的人物的巧妙努力。 “他用的是优质材料，”拉尔夫自言自语道。 “与他以前的资源相比，这是非常丰富的。”拉尔夫是一个聪明人；但拉尔夫在佩托中观察到，在只关心内在价值的幌子下，奥斯蒙德完全是为了世界而活，这在他自己看来是最聪明的。他远非他所假装的那样是它的主人，而是它非常卑微的仆人，而它的关注程度是他成功的唯一衡量标准。他从早到晚都盯着它，世界是如此愚蠢，从来没有怀疑过这个诡计。他所做的每一件事都是经过精心考虑的，如果不留心，就会被误认为是一时冲动。拉尔夫从未见过一个人如此长时间地生活在这片受人尊敬的土地上。他的品味、他的学习、他的成就、他的收藏，都是有目的的。他在佛罗伦萨山顶上的生活是多年来他有意识的态度。 他的孤独，他的倦怠，他对女儿的爱，他的礼貌，他的不礼貌，这些都是他心理形象的许多特征，不断地呈现在他面前，成为无礼和神秘的典范。他的野心不是取悦世界，而是通过激发世界的好奇心然后拒绝满足它来取悦自己。玩弄这个世界让他感觉很棒，永远。他一生中最直接为了取悦自己而做的一件事就是娶了阿切尔小姐。尽管在这种情况下，这个容易受骗的世界确实在某种程度上体现在可怜的伊莎贝尔身上，她已经被迷惑到了极点。拉尔夫当然发现了保持一致的好处。他信奉一种信条，并且因为他曾为此受苦，所以他不能为了荣誉而放弃它。我对其文章的当时价值进行了简要概述。可以肯定的是，他非常善于将事实与他的理论相结合——甚至事实上，在他在罗马度过的这一个月里，他所爱的女人的丈夫似乎丝毫没有把他视为敌人。

For Gilbert Osmond Ralph had not now that importance. It was not that he had the importance of a friend; it was rather that he had none at all. He was Isabel’s cousin and he was rather unpleasantly ill-it was on this basis that Osmond treated with him. He made the proper enquiries, asked about his health, about Mrs. Touchett, about his opinion of winter climates, whether he were comfortable at his hotel. He addressed him, on the few occasions of their meeting, not a word that was not necessary; but his manner had always the urbanity proper to conscious success in the presence of conscious failure. For all this, Ralph had had, toward the end, a sharp inward vision of Osmond’s making it of small ease to his wife that she should continue to receive Mr. Touchett. He was not jealous-he had not that excuse; no one could be jealous of Ralph. But he made Isabel pay for her old-time kindness, of which so much was still left; and as Ralph had no idea of her paying too much, so when his suspicion had become sharp, he had taken himself off. In doing so he had deprived Isabel of a very interesting occupation: she had been constantly wondering what fine principle was keeping him alive. She had decided that it was his love of conversation; his conversation had been better than ever. He had given up walking; he was no longer a humorous stroller. He sat all day in a chair-almost any chair would serve, and was so dependent on what you would do for him that, had not his talk been highly contemplative, you might have thought he was blind. The reader already knows more about him than Isabel was ever to know, and the reader may therefore be given the key to the mystery. What kept Ralph alive was simply the fact that he had not yet seen enough of the person in the world in whom he was most interested: he was not yet satisfied. There was more to come; he couldn’t make up his mind to lose that. He wanted to see what she would make of her husband-or what her husband would make of her. This was only the first act of the drama, and he was determined to sit out the performance. His determination had held good; it had kept him going some eighteen months more, till the time of his return to Rome with Lord Warburton. It had given him indeed such an air of intending to live indefinitely that Mrs. Touchett, though more accessible to confusions of thought in the matter of this strange, unremunerativeand unremunerated—son of hers than she had ever been before, had, as we have learned, not scrupled to embark for a distant land. If Ralph had been kept alive by suspense it was with a good deal of the same emotion-the excitement of wondering in what state she should find him-that Isabel mounted to his apartment the day after Lord Warburton had notified her of his arrival in Rome.
对于吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德来说，拉尔夫现在已经不再那么重要了。并不是因为他有朋友的重要性；而是因为他有朋友的重要性。相反，他根本就没有。他是伊莎贝尔的表弟，病得相当不愉快——正是在这个基础上，奥斯蒙德才和他一起治疗。他进行了适当的询问，询问了他的健康状况、图切特夫人的情况、他对冬季气候的看法以及他在酒店是否舒服。在他们的几次见面中，他都对他说过一句没有必要的话。但他的举止始终保持着一种温文尔雅的态度，适合在有意识的失败的情况下取得有意识的成功。尽管如此，到最后，拉尔夫内心敏锐地意识到，奥斯蒙德让他的妻子不太容易继续接待图切特先生。他并不嫉妒——他没有那个借口；他没有嫉妒。没有人会嫉妒拉尔夫。但他让伊莎贝尔为她昔日的善意付出了代价，而她的善意至今仍存有余。由于拉尔夫不知道她付了太多钱，所以当他的怀疑变得尖锐时，他就离开了。他这样做，就剥夺了伊莎贝尔一项非常有趣的工作：她一直在想，到底是什么原则让他活了下来。她认定这是他对谈话的热爱；他的谈话比以往任何时候都好。他已经放弃走路了；他不再是一个幽默的婴儿车了。他整天坐在椅子上——几乎任何椅子都可以用，而且非常依赖于你能为他做什么，如果他的谈话不是高度沉思的话，你可能会认为他是瞎子。读者对他的了解已经比伊莎贝尔所了解的还要多，因此读者可能会得到解开谜团的钥匙。 拉尔夫之所以能活下来，只是因为他还没有见过足够多的世界上他最感兴趣的人：他还不满意。还有更多的事情要做。他无法下定决心失去它。他想看看她会怎样评价她的丈夫——或者她的丈夫会怎样评价她。这只是戏剧的第一幕，他决心不看演出。他的决心坚定不移。这让他又坚持了大约十八个月，直到他与沃伯顿勋爵一起返回罗马。这确实给了他一种想要无限期地活下去的感觉，以至于图切特夫人虽然在这个奇怪的、无报酬的、无报酬的儿子的问题上比她以前更容易陷入思想混乱，但正如我们所看到的那样学识渊博，毫无顾忌地踏上远方。如果说拉尔夫是靠悬念活下去的话，那么在沃伯顿勋爵通知她他抵达罗马的第二天，伊莎贝尔就怀着同样的情绪——想知道她会在什么状态下找到他而感到兴奋——伊莎贝尔登上了他的公寓。 。

She spent an hour with him; it was the first of several visits. Gilbert Osmond called on him punctually, and on their sending their carriage for him Ralph came more than once to Palazzo Roccanera. A fortnight elapsed, at the end of which Ralph announced to Lord Warburton that he thought after all he wouldn’t go to Sicily. The two men had been dining together after a day spent by the latter in ranging about the Campagna. They had left the table, and Warburton, before the chimney, was lighting a cigar, which he instantly removed from his lips.
她和他待了一个小时；这是多次访问中的第一次。吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德准时拜访了他，他们派出马车接他后，拉尔夫不止一次来到罗卡内拉宫。两周过去了，最后拉尔夫向沃伯顿勋爵宣布，他认为他终究不会去西西里岛。后者在平原地区逛了一天之后，两人一起吃饭。他们离开了桌子，沃伯顿在烟囱前点着一支雪茄，他立即把雪茄从嘴边拿开。

‘Won’t go to Sicily? Where then will you go?’
“不去西西里岛吗？那么你要去哪里呢？

‘Well, I guess I won’t go anywhere,’ said Ralph, from the sofa, all shamelessly.
“好吧，我想我哪儿也不会去，”拉尔夫坐在沙发上，厚颜无耻地说。

‘Do you mean you’ll return to England?’
“你的意思是你会回到英国吗？”

‘Oh dear no; I’ll stay in Rome.’
‘哦，亲爱的，不；我会留在罗马。

‘Rome won’t do for you. Rome’s not warm enough.’
“罗马不适合你。罗马不够温暖。

‘It will have to do. I’ll make it do. See how well I’ve been.’
‘这必须做。我会做到的。看看我过得有多好。

Lord Warburton looked at him a while, puffing a cigar and as if trying to see it. ‘You’ve been better than you were on the journey, certainly. I wonder how you lived through that. But I don’t understand your condition. I recommend you to try Sicily.’
沃伯顿勋爵看着他一会儿，抽着雪茄，似乎想看清它。 “当然，你比旅途中表现得更好。”我想知道你是如何度过那段时光的。但我不明白你的状况。我建议你去西西里岛尝试一下。

‘I can’t try,’ said poor Ralph. ‘I’ve done trying. I can’t move further. I can’t face that journey. Fancy me between Scylla and Charybdis! I don’t want to die on the Sicilian plains-to be snatched away, like Proserpine in the same locality, to the Plutonian shades.’
“我不能尝试，”可怜的拉尔夫说。 ‘我已经尽力了。我无法继续前进。我无法面对那段旅程。想像我在斯库拉和卡律布狄斯之间吧！我不想死在西西里平原上——像同一地点的普罗瑟平娜一样，被夺去冥王星的阴影。

‘What the deuce then did you come for?’ his lordship enquired.
“那你到底来干什么？”大人问道。

‘Because the idea took me. I see it won’t do. It really doesn’t matter where I am now. I’ve exhausted all remedies, I’ve swallowed all climates. As I’m here I’ll stay. I haven’t a single cousin in Sicily-much less a married one.’
‘因为这个想法吸引了我。我看这不行。我现在在哪里真的不重要。我已经用尽了所有的补救办法，我已经吞下了所有的气候。既然我在这里，我就会留下来。我在西西里岛没有一个表兄弟，更不用说已婚的表兄弟了。

‘Your cousin’s certainly an inducement. But what does the doctor say?’
“你的表弟确实是一个诱因。但医生怎么说呢？

‘I haven’t asked him, and I don’t care a fig. If I die here Mrs. Osmond will bury me. But I shall not die here.’
“我没有问过他，我也不在乎。如果我死在这里，奥斯蒙德夫人会埋葬我。但我不会死在这里。

‘I hope not.’ Lord Warburton continued to smoke reflectively. ‘Well, I must say,’ he resumed, ‘for myself I’m very glad you don’t insist on Sicily. I had a horror of that journey.’
“我希望不会。”沃伯顿勋爵若有所思地继续抽烟。 “好吧，我必须说，”他继续说道，“就我个人而言，我很高兴你没有坚持选择西西里岛。我对那次旅程感到恐惧。

‘Ah, but for you it needn’t have mattered. I had no idea of dragging you in my train.’
“啊，不过对你来说这并不重要。我没想到要把你拖进我的火车。

‘I certainly didn’t mean to let you go alone.’
“我当然不是故意让你一个人走的。”

‘My dear Warburton, I never expected you to come further than this,’
“亲爱的沃伯顿，我没想到你能走得更远。”

Ralph cried.
拉尔夫哭了。

‘I should have gone with you and seen you settled,’ said Lord Warburton.
“我应该和你一起去，看着你安顿下来，”沃伯顿勋爵说。

‘You’re a very good Christian. You’re a very kind man.’
‘你是一个非常好的基督徒。你是一个非常善良的人。

‘Then I should have come back here.’
“那我应该回到这里。”

‘And then you’d have gone to England.’
“然后你就去了英国。”

‘No, no; I should have stayed.’
'不，不;我应该留下来。

‘Well,’ said Ralph, ‘if that’s what we are both up to, I don’t see where Sicily comes in!’
“好吧，”拉尔夫说，“如果这就是我们俩的打算，我不明白西西里岛有什么用处！”

His companion was silent; he sat staring at the fire. At last, looking up, ‘I say, tell me this,’ he broke out; ‘did you really mean to go to Sicily when we started?’
他的同伴沉默了。他坐在那儿盯着火。最后，他抬起头，说道：“我说，告诉我这个。” “我们出发时你真的想去西西里岛吗？”

‘Ah, vous m’en demandez trop! Let me put a question first. Did you come with me quite-platonically?’
‘啊，你需要托普！我先提一个问题。你是柏拉图式地跟我来的吗？

‘I don’t know what you mean by that. I wanted to come abroad.’
‘我不知道你这是什么意思。我想出国。

‘I suspect we’ve each been playing our little game.’
“我怀疑我们每个人都在玩自己的小游戏。”

‘Speak for yourself. I made no secret whatever of my desiring to be here a while.’
‘为你自己说话。我毫不掩饰自己想在这里待一段时间的愿望。”

‘Yes, I remember you said you wished to see the Minister of Foreign Affairs.’
“是的，我记得你说过你想见外交部长。”

‘I’ve seen him three times. He’s very amusing.’
‘我见过他三遍了。他非常有趣。

‘I think you’ve forgotten what you came for,’ said Ralph.
“我想你已经忘记了你来这里的目的，”拉尔夫说。

‘Perhaps I have,’ his companion answered rather gravely.
“也许我有，”他的同伴相当严肃地回答。

These two were gentlemen of a race which is not distinguished by the absence of reserve, and they had travelled together from London to Rome without an allusion to matters that were uppermost in the mind of each. There was an old subject they had once discussed, but it had lost its recognized place in their attention, and even after their arrival in Rome, where many things led back to it, they had kept the same half-diffident, half-confident silence.
这两个人都是绅士，他们的特点并不在于缺乏矜持，他们一起从伦敦到罗马，没有提及彼此最关心的事情。他们曾经讨论过一个古老的话题，但它已经在他们的注意力中失去了公认的地位，即使在他们到达罗马之后，许多事情都回到了这个话题，他们仍然保持着同样的半犹豫半自信的沉默。

‘I recommend you to get the doctor’s consent, all the same,’ Lord Warburton went on, abruptly, after an interval.
“无论如何，我建议你先征得医生的同意。”过了一会儿，沃伯顿勋爵突然继续说道。

‘The doctor’s consent will spoil it. I never have it when I can help it.’
‘医生的同意会破坏它。当我能帮助的时候，我从来没有得到它。

‘What then does Mrs. Osmond think?’ Ralph’s friend demanded.
“那么奥斯蒙德夫人怎么想？”拉尔夫的朋友问道。

‘I’ve not told her. She’ll probably say that Rome’s too cold and even offer to go with me to Catania. She’s capable of that.’
‘我还没告诉她。她可能会说罗马太冷，甚至提出和我一起去卡塔尼亚。她有能力做到这一点。

‘In your place I should like it.’
“在你的位置上我应该会喜欢它。”

‘Her husband won’t like it.’
“她丈夫不会喜欢的。”

‘Ah well, I can fancy that; though it seems to me you’re not bound to mind his likings. They’re his affair.’
“啊，好吧，我能想象得到；尽管在我看来你不必介意他的喜好。他们是他的事。

‘I don’t want to make any more trouble between them,’ said Ralph.
“我不想在他们之间再制造任何麻烦，”拉尔夫说。

‘Is there so much already?’
“已经有这么多了吗？”

‘There’s complete preparation for it. Her going off with me would make the explosion. Osmond isn’t fond of his wife’s cousin.’
‘已经做好了充分的准备。她和我走会引起爆炸。奥斯蒙德不喜欢他妻子的表弟。

‘Then of course he’d make a row. But won’t he make a row if you stop here?’
“那他当然会吵起来。但如果你停在这里，他不会吵架吗？

‘That’s what I want to see. He made one the last time I was in Rome, and then I thought it my duty to disappear. Now I think it’s my duty to stop and defend her.’
‘这就是我想看到的。我上次去罗马时他做了一个，然后我认为我有责任消失。现在我认为我有责任阻止并保护她。

‘My dear Touchett, your defensive powers-!’ Lord Warburton began with a smile. But he saw something in his companion’s face that checked him.
“我亲爱的图切特，你的防御能力——！”沃伯顿勋爵微笑着说道。但他从同伴的脸上看到了一些让他感到惊讶的东西。

‘Your duty, in these premises, seems to me rather a nice question,’ he observed instead.
“在我看来，在这些前提下，你的职责似乎是一个很好的问题，”他评论道。

Ralph for a short time answered nothing. ‘It’s true my defensive powers are small,’ he returned at last; ‘but as my aggressive ones are still smaller Osmond may after all not think me worth his gunpowder. At any rate,’ he added, ‘there are things I’m curious to see.’
拉尔夫一时没有回答。 “确实，我的防御力很弱。”他最后回答道。 “但由于我的侵略性仍然较小，奥斯蒙德可能毕竟不认为我值得他火药。”无论如何，”他补充道，“有些事情我很好奇。”

‘You’re sacrificing your health to your curiosity then?’
“那么你是为了好奇心而牺牲自己的健康吗？”

‘I’m not much interested in my health, and I’m deeply interested in Mrs. Osmond.’
“我对自己的健康不太感兴趣，但我对奥斯蒙德夫人很感兴趣。”

‘So am I. But not as I once was,’ Lord Warburton added quickly. This was one of the allusions he had not hitherto found occasion to make.
“我也是。但不像以前了，”沃伯顿勋爵很快补充道。这是他迄今为止还没有机会提出的暗示之一。

‘Does she strike you as very happy?’ Ralph enquired, emboldened by this confidence.
“你觉得她很高兴吗？”拉尔夫问道，这种自信让他更加大胆。

‘Well, I don’t know; I’ve hardly thought. She told me the other night she was happy.’
” “好吧，我不知道；我几乎没有想到。那天晚上她告诉我她很高兴。

‘Ah, she told you, of course,’ Ralph exclaimed, smiling.
“啊，她当然告诉过你了，”拉尔夫微笑着喊道。

‘I don’t know that. It seems to me I was rather the sort of person she might have complained to.’
” “我不知道。在我看来，我是那种她可能会抱怨的人。

‘Complained? She’ll never complain. She has done it-what she has done-and she knows it. She’ll complain to you least of all. She’s very careful.’
‘抱怨了？她永远不会抱怨。她已经做到了——她已经做到了——而且她知道。她最不会向你抱怨。她非常小心。

‘She needn’t be. I don’t mean to make love to her again.’
‘她不必这样。我不想再和她做爱了。

‘I’m delighted to hear it. There can be no doubt at least of your duty.’
‘我很高兴听到这个消息。至少你的职责是毫无疑问的。

‘Ah no,’ said Lord Warburton gravely; ‘none!’
“啊不，”沃伯顿勋爵严肃地说。 '没有任何！'

‘Permit me to ask,’ Ralph went on, ‘whether it’s to bring out the fact that you don’t mean to make love to her that you’re so very civil to the little girl?’
“请允许我问一下，”拉尔夫继续说道，“你对这个小女孩如此客气，是否是为了表明你并不是故意要和她做爱？”

Lord Warburton gave a slight start; he got up and stood before the fire, looking at it hard. ‘Does that strike you as very ridiculous?’
沃伯顿勋爵微微一惊。他站起来，站在火堆前，认真地看着它。 “你觉得这很荒谬吗？”

‘Ridiculous? Not in the least, if you really like her.’
'荒谬的？至少不会，如果你真的喜欢她的话。

‘I think her a delightful little person. I don’t know when a girl of that age has pleased me more.’
“我认为她是一个令人愉快的小人物。我不知道那个年纪的女孩什么时候更让我高兴了。”

‘She’s a charming creature. Ah, she at least is genuine.’
“她是一个迷人的生物。啊，她至少是真诚的。

‘Of course there’s the difference in our ages-more than twenty years.’
“当然，我们的年龄相差二十多岁。”

‘My dear Warburton,’ said Ralph, ‘are you serious?’
“亲爱的沃伯顿，”拉尔夫说，“你是认真的吗？”

‘Perfectly serious-as far as I’ve got.’
“据我所知，非常认真。”

‘I’m very glad. And, heaven help us,’ cried Ralph, ‘how cheered-up old Osmond will be!’
'我很高兴。而且，老天保佑我们，”拉尔夫喊道，“老奥斯蒙德会多么高兴啊！”

His companion frowned. ‘I say, don’t spoil it. I shouldn’t propose for his daughter to please him.’
他的同伴皱起了眉头。 ‘我说，别破坏它。我不应该为了取悦他而向他的女儿求婚。”

‘He’ll have the perversity to be pleased all the same.’
“尽管如此，他仍然会感到高兴。”

‘He’s not so fond of me as that,’ said his lordship.
“他没那么喜欢我，”大人说道。

‘As that? My dear Warburton, the drawback of your position is that people needn’t be fond of you at all to wish to be connected with you. Now, with me in such a case, I should have the happy confidence that they loved me.’
‘就这样？我亲爱的沃伯顿，你的立场的缺点是人们根本不需要喜欢你才希望与你联系。现在，在我这样的情况下，我应该高兴地相信他们爱我。

Lord Warburton seemed scarcely in the mood for doing justice to general axioms-he was thinking of a special case. ‘Do you judge she’ll be pleased?’
沃伯顿勋爵似乎没有心情公正地对待一般公理——他正在考虑一个特殊的情况。 “你认为她会高兴吗？”

‘The girl herself? Delighted, surely.’ ‘No, no; I mean Mrs. Osmond.’
‘那个女孩本人？很高兴，当然。”我指的是奥斯蒙德夫人。

Ralph looked at him a moment. ‘My dear fellow, what has she to do with it?’
拉尔夫看了他一会儿。 “我亲爱的朋友，这与她有什么关系？”

‘Whatever she chooses. She’s very fond of Pansy.’
‘无论她选择什么。她非常喜欢潘西。

‘Very true-very true.’ And Ralph slowly got up. ‘It’s an interesting question-how far her fondness for Pansy will carry her.’ He stood there a moment with his hands in his pockets and rather a clouded brow. ‘I hope, you know, that you’re very-very sure. The deuce!’ he broke off. ‘I don’t know how to say it.’
“非常正确——非常正确。”拉尔夫慢慢地站了起来。 “这是一个有趣的问题——她对潘西的喜爱能够让她走多远。”他双手插在口袋里站了一会儿，眉头阴沉。 “我希望，你知道，你非常非常确定。平局！”他打住了。 “我不知道该怎么说。”

‘Yes, you do; you know how to say everything.’
'是的你是;你知道如何表达一切。

‘Well, it’s awkward. I hope you’re sure that among Miss Osmond’s merits her being-a-so near her stepmother isn’t a leading one?’
‘嗯，这很尴尬。我希望你确信奥斯蒙德小姐的优点中，她与继母如此亲近并不是一个主要优点？

‘Good heavens, Touchett!’ cried Lord Warburton angrily, ‘for what do you take me?’
“天啊，图切特！”沃伯顿勋爵愤怒地叫道，“你把我当什么了？”

Chapter 20
第20章

Isabel had not seen much of Madame Merle since her marriage, this lady having indulged in frequent absences from Rome. At one time she had spent six months in England; at another she had passed a portion of a winter in Paris. She had made numerous visits to distant friends and gave countenance to the idea that for the future she should be a less inveterate Roman than in the past. As she had been inveterate in the past only in the sense of constantly having an apartment in one of the sunniest niches of the Pincian—an apartment which often stood empty-this suggested a prospect of almost constant absence; a danger which Isabel at one period had been much inclined to deplore. Familiarity had modified in some degree her first impression of Madame Merle, but it had not essentially altered it; there was still much wonder of admiration in it. That personage was armed at all points; it was a pleasure to see a character so completely equipped for the social battle. She carried her flag discreetly, but her weapons were polished steel, and she used them with a skill which struck Isabel as more and more that of a veteran. She was never weary, never overcome with disgust; she never appeared to need rest or consolation. She had her own ideas; she had of old exposed a great many of them to Isabel, who knew also that under an appearance of extreme self-control her highly-cultivated friend concealed a rich sensibility. But her will was mistress of her life; there was something gallant in the way she kept going. It was as if she had learned the secret of it-as if the art of life were some clever trick she had guessed. Isabel, as she herself grew older, became acquainted with revulsions, with disgusts; there were days when the world looked black and she asked herself with some sharpness what it was that she was pretending to live for. Her old habit had been to live by enthusiasm, to fall in love with suddenly-perceived possibilities, with the idea of some new adventure. As a younger person she had been used to proceed from one little exaltation to the other: there were scarcely any dull places between. But Madame Merle had suppressed enthusiasm; she fell in love now-a-days with nothing; she lived entirely by reason and by wisdom. There were hours when Isabel would have given anything for lessons in this art; if her brilliant friend had been near she would have made an appeal to her. She had become aware more than before of the advantage of being like that-of having made one’s self a firm surface, a sort of corselet of silver.
自从梅尔夫人结婚以来，伊莎贝尔就很少见到她了，这位女士经常不在罗马。她曾在英国待了六个月；后来她又在英国待了六个月。另一次，她在巴黎度过了一个冬天。她曾多次拜访远方的朋友，并支持这样的想法：未来她应该像过去那样成为一个不那么顽固的罗马人。由于她过去一直在平西安最阳光明媚的壁龛之一拥有一套公寓，所以她一直是根深蒂固的——一套经常空着的公寓——这表明她几乎总是缺席的前景；伊莎贝尔曾一度对这种危险深感遗憾。熟悉在某种程度上改变了她对梅尔夫人的第一印象，但并没有本质上改变它；里面还是有很多令人惊叹的钦佩之情。该人物全身上下都携带武器；很高兴看到一个角色为社交战斗做好了充分的准备。她小心翼翼地举着旗帜，但她的武器是抛光的钢制的，她使用武器的技巧让伊莎贝尔越来越觉得她像个老兵。她从不感到疲倦，也从不感到厌恶；她似乎从来不需要休息或安慰。她有自己的想法；她过去曾向伊莎贝尔透露过很多这样的事情，而伊莎贝尔也知道，在她这位受过良好教养的朋友外表极度自制的外表下，隐藏着丰富的情感。但她的意志是她生活的主宰。她继续前进的方式中有一种英勇的感觉。就好像她已经了解了其中的秘密——就好像生活的艺术是她猜到的一些巧妙的把戏。 伊莎贝尔随着年龄的增长，开始感到厌恶和厌恶。有时候，世界看起来一片漆黑，她敏锐地问自己，她假装活着是为了什么。她的老习惯是充满热情地生活，爱上突然感知到的可能性，爱上一些新冒险的想法。作为一个年轻的人，她已经习惯了从一种小小的兴奋走向另一种兴奋：之间几乎没有任何沉闷的地方。但梅尔夫人却抑制住了热情。如今，她爱上了空无一物的爱情；她完全靠理性和智慧生活。有时候，为了学习这门艺术，伊莎贝尔愿意付出一切。如果她的才华横溢的朋友在附近，她就会向她发出呼吁。她比以前更加意识到这样做的好处——让自己成为一个坚固的表面，一种银质的胸衣。

But, as I say, it was not till the winter during which we lately renewed acquaintance with our heroine that the personage in question made again a continuous stay in Rome. Isabel now saw more of her than she had done since her marriage; but by this time Isabel’s needs and inclinations had considerably changed. It was not at present to Madame Merle that she would have applied for instruction; she had lost the desire to know this lady’s clever trick. If she had troubles she must keep them to herself, and if life was difficult it would not make it easier to confess herself beaten. Madame Merle was doubtless of great use to herself and an ornament to any circle; but was she-would she be-of use to others in periods of refined embarrassment? The best way to profit by her friend-this indeed Isabel had always thought-was to imitate her, to be as firm and bright as she. She recognized no embarrassments, and Isabel, considering this fact, determined for the fiftieth time to brush aside her own. It seemed to her too, on the renewal of an intercourse which had virtually been interrupted, that her old ally was different, was almost detached-pushing to the extreme a certain rather artificial fear of being indiscreet. Ralph Touchett, we know, had been of the opinion that she was prone to exaggeration, to forcing the note-was apt, in the vulgar phrase, to overdo it. Isabel had never admitted this charge-had never indeed quite understood it; Madame Merle’s conduct, to her perception, always bore the stamp of good taste, was always ‘quiet.’ But in this matter of not wishing to intrude upon the inner life of the Osmond family it at last occurred to our young woman that she overdid a little. That of course was not the best taste; that was rather violent. She remembered too much that Isabel was married; that she had now other interests; that though she, Madame Merle, had known Gilbert Osmond and his little Pansy very well, better almost than any one, she was not after all of the inner circle. She was on her guard; she never spoke of their affairs till she was asked, even pressed when her opinion was wanted; she had a dread of seeming to meddle. Madame Merle was as candid as we know, and one day she candidly expressed this dread to Isabel.
但是，正如我所说，直到那个冬天，我们最近重新认识了我们的女主人公，这位人物才再次在罗马持续逗留。伊莎贝尔现在见到她的次数比结婚以来还多。但此时伊莎贝尔的需求和倾向已经发生了很大的变化。对于梅尔夫人来说，目前她还不会申请指导。她已经失去了想知道这位女士的聪明伎俩的欲望。如果她遇到麻烦，她必须把它们藏在心里，如果生活很困难，承认自己受到了打击也不会更容易。梅尔夫人无疑对她自己有很大的用处，对任何圈子来说都是一个装饰品。但在优雅的尴尬时期，她是否——她会——对别人有用吗？从她的朋友那里获益的最好方法——这确实是伊莎贝尔一直认为的——就是模仿她，像她一样坚定和聪明。她不觉得有什么尴尬，伊莎贝尔考虑到这一事实，第五十次决定抛开自己的尴尬。在她看来，在一次几乎被中断的交往重新开始时，她的老盟友已经不同了，几乎是超然的——将某种相当人为的对不谨慎的恐惧推向了极端。我们知道，拉尔夫·图切特（Ralph Touchett）认为她很容易夸大其词，强行强调——用粗俗的话来说，就是做得太过分了。伊莎贝尔从来没有承认过这个指控——也从来没有真正理解过它。梅尔夫人的行为，在她看来，总是带有良好品味的印记，总是“安静”。但是，在这件事上，她不想打扰奥斯蒙德一家的内部生活，最后我们的年轻女人意识到她做得太过分了。一点。这当然不是最好的味道。那是相当暴力的。 她太记得伊莎贝尔已经结婚了；她记得太多了。她现在有了其他兴趣；尽管她，梅尔夫人，非常了解吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德和他的小潘西，几乎比任何人都了解，但她毕竟不是核心圈子的人。她很警惕。她从来不谈论他们的事情，除非有人问她，甚至在有人征求她的意见时也追问她。她害怕显得多管闲事。正如我们所知，梅尔夫人非常坦率，有一天她向伊莎贝尔坦白地表达了这种恐惧。

‘I must be on my guard,’ she said; ‘I might so easily, without suspecting it, offend you. You would be right to be offended, even if my intention should have been of the purest. I must not forget that I knew your husband long before you did; I must not let that betray me. If you were a silly woman you might be jealous. You’re not a silly woman; I know that perfectly. But neither am I; therefore I’m determined not to get into trouble. A little harm’s very soon done; a mistake’s made before one knows it. Of course if I had wished to make love to your husband I had ten years to do it in, and nothing to prevent; so it isn’t likely I shall begin to-day, when I’m so much less attractive than I was. But if I were to annoy you by seeming to take a place that doesn’t belong to me, you wouldn’t make that reflection; you’d simply say I was forgetting certain differences. I’m determined not to forget them. Certainly a good friend isn’t always thinking of that; one doesn’t suspect one’s friends of injustice. I don’t suspect you, my dear, in the least; but I suspect human nature. Don’t think I make myself uncomfortable; I’m not always watching myself. I think I sufficiently prove it in talking to you as I do now. All I wish to say is, however, that if you were to be jealous-that’s the form it would take-I should be sure to think it was a little my fault. It certainly wouldn’t be your husband’s.’
“我必须保持警惕，”她说。 “我可能会毫不怀疑地轻易冒犯你。即使我的意图是最纯粹的，你也会感到被冒犯。我不能忘记，我比你早认识你的丈夫；我不能让那背叛我。如果你是个傻女人，你可能会嫉妒。你不是个傻女人；我完全知道这一点。但我也不是；因此我决心不惹上麻烦。一点点伤害很快就会造成；错误在人们意识到之前就已经犯了。当然，如果我想和你丈夫做爱，我有十年的时间去做，没有什么可以阻止的；所以我不太可能从今天开始，因为我的吸引力已经不如以前了。但如果我似乎占据了一个不属于我的地方而惹恼了你，你就不会做出这样的反应；你只会说我忘记了某些差异。我决心不忘记他们。当然，好朋友并不总是想到这一点。一个人不会怀疑自己的朋友不公正。亲爱的，我一点也不怀疑你；但我怀疑人性。别以为我让自己不舒服；我并不总是观察自己。我想我现在和你的谈话足以证明这一点。然而，我想说的是，如果你嫉妒——这就是它所采取的形式——我肯定会认为这有点我的错。它肯定不会是你丈夫的。

Isabel had had three years to think over Mrs. Touchett’s theory that Madame Merle had made Gilbert Osmond’s marriage. We know how she had at first received it. Madame Merle might have made Gilbert Osmond’s marriage, but she certainly had not made Isabel Archer’s. That was the work of-Isabel scarcely knew what: of nature, providence, fortune, of the eternal mystery of things. It was true her aunt’s complaint had been not so much of Madame Merle’s activity as of her duplicity: she had brought about the strange event and then she had denied her guilt. Such guilt would not have been great, to Isabel’s mind; she couldn’t make a crime of Madame Merle’s having been the producing cause of the most important friendship she had ever formed. This had occurred to her just before her marriage, after her little discussion with her aunt and at a time when she was still capable of that large inward reference, the tone almost of the philosophic historian, to her scant young annals. If Madame Merle had desired her change of state she could only say it had been a very happy thought. With her, moreover, she had been perfectly straightforward; she had never concealed her high opinion of Gilbert Osmond. After their union Isabel discovered that her husband took a less convenient view of the matter; he seldom consented to finger, in talk, this roundest and smoothest bead of their social rosary.
伊莎贝尔花了三年的时间思考图切特夫人关于吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德的婚姻是梅尔夫人促成的理论。我们知道她最初是如何收到它的。梅尔夫人也许促成了吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德的婚姻，但她肯定没有促成伊莎贝尔·阿切尔的婚姻。那是伊莎贝尔几乎不知道的作品：自然、天意、命运，以及事物永恒的神秘。确实，她姨妈的抱怨与其说是梅尔夫人的行为，不如说是她的口是心非：是她造成了这起奇怪的事件，然后她又否认自己有罪。在伊莎贝尔看来，这样的愧疚并不算什么。她不能因为梅尔夫人促成了她所建立的最重要的友谊而犯罪。就在她结婚之前，在她与姨妈进行了一番小小的讨论之后，她就想到了这一点，当时她仍然能够以几乎是哲学历史学家的语气，对她那不多的年轻年鉴进行大量的内心参考。如果梅尔夫人希望改变自己的状态，她只能说这是一个非常快乐的想法。而且，她对她非常直率。她从不掩饰自己对吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德的高度评价。他们结婚后，伊莎贝尔发现她的丈夫对这件事的看法不太方便。他很少同意在谈话时用手指触摸他们社交念珠中最圆、最光滑的珠子。

‘Don’t you like Madame Merle?’ Isabel had once said to him. ‘She thinks a great deal of you.’
“你不喜欢梅尔夫人吗？”伊莎贝尔有一次对他说。 “她很看重你。”

‘I’ll tell you once for all,’ Osmond had answered. ‘I liked her once better than I do to-day. I’m tired of her, and I’m rather ashamed of it. She’s so almost unnaturally good! I’m glad she’s not in Italy; it makes for relaxation-for a sort of moral detente. Don’t talk of her too much; it seems to bring her back. She’ll come back in plenty of time.’
“我会告诉你一次，”奥斯蒙德回答道。 “我曾经比现在更喜欢她。我厌倦了她，并且为此感到羞愧。她的好几乎是不自然的！我很高兴她不在意大利；它使人放松——一种道德缓和。不要过多谈论她；它似乎把她带回来了。她很快就会回来。

Madame Merle, in fact, had come back before it was too late-too late, I mean, to recover whatever advantage she might have lost. But meantime, if, as I have said, she was sensibly different, Isabel’s feelings were also not quite the same. Her consciousness of the situation was as acute as of old, but it was much less satisfying. A dissatisfied mind, whatever else it may miss, is rarely in want of reasons; they bloom as thick as buttercups in June. The fact of Madame Merle’s having had a hand in Gilbert Osmond’s marriage ceased to be one of her titles to consideration; it might have been written, after all, that there was not so much to thank her for. As time went on there was less and less, and Isabel once said to herself that perhaps without her these things would not have been. That reflection indeed was instantly stifled; she knew an immediate horror at having made it. ‘Whatever happens to me let me not be unjust,’ she said; ‘Let me bear my burdens myself and not shift them upon others!’ This disposition was tested, eventually, by that ingenious apology for her present conduct which Madame Merle saw fit to make and of which I have given a sketch; for there was something irritating-there was almost an air of mockery-in her neat discriminations and clear convictions. In Isabel’s mind to-day there was nothing clear; there was a confusion of regrets, a complication of fears. She felt helpless as she turned away from her friend, who had just made the statements I have quoted: Madame Merle knew so little what she was thinking of! She was herself moreover so unable to explain. jealous of her-jealous of her with Gilbert? The idea just then suggested no near reality.
事实上，梅尔夫人在为时已晚之前就已经回来了——我的意思是，为了恢复她可能失去的任何优势，已经太晚了。但与此同时，正如我所说，如果她明显不同，那么伊莎贝尔的感受也不太一样。她对形势的认识和以前一样敏锐，但远没有那么令人满意。一颗不满的心，无论它可能错过什么，都很少缺乏理由。六月，它们盛开得像毛茛一样茂盛。梅尔夫人插手吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德的婚姻这一事实不再是她值得考虑的权利之一；她已经不再把梅尔夫人插手吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德的婚姻这一事实作为考虑因素了。毕竟，可能写的是没有太多值得感谢她的事情。随着时间的推移，这些东西越来越少，伊莎贝尔曾经对自己说，如果没有她，也许就不会出现这些东西。这种想法确实立刻就被压制住了；她立刻就对自己的成功感到恐惧。 “无论我发生什么事，都不要让我不公正，”她说。 “让我自己承担我的重担，不要把它们转嫁到别人身上！”最终，这种性格受到了考验，她为自己目前的行为做出了巧妙的道歉，梅尔夫人认为这是合适的，我已经对此进行了概述。因为在她清晰的辨别力和明确的信念中，有一些令人恼火的东西——几乎有一种嘲弄的气氛。今天伊莎贝尔的脑子里什么都不清楚。心中充满了遗憾和复杂的恐惧。当她转身离开她的朋友时，她感到很无助，她的朋友刚刚发表了我引用的言论：梅尔夫人对她在想什么一无所知！更何况她自己也无法解释。嫉妒她——嫉妒她和吉尔伯特在一起？刚才的想法表明远非现实。

She almost wished jealousy had been possible; it would have made in a manner for refreshment. Wasn’t it in a manner one of the symptoms of happiness? Madame Merle, however, was wise, so wise that she might have been pretending to know Isabel better than Isabel knew herself. This young woman had always been fertile in resolutions-many of them of an elevated character; but at no period had they flourished (in the privacy of her heart) more richly than to-day. It is true that they all had a family likeness; they might have been summed up in the determination that if she was to be unhappy it should not be by a fault of her own. Her poor winged spirit had always had a great desire to do its best, and it had not as yet been seriously discouraged. It wished, therefore, to hold fast to justice-not to pay itself by petty revenges. To associate Madame Merle with its disappointment would be a petty revenge-especially as the pleasure to be derived from that would be perfectly insincere. It might feed her sense of bitterness, but it would not loosen her bonds. It was impossible to pretend that she had not acted with her eyes open; if ever a girl was a free agent she had been. A girl in love was doubtless not a free agent; but the sole source of her mistake had been within herself. There had been no plot, no snare; she had looked and considered and chosen. When a woman had made such a mistake, there was only one way to repair it-just immensely (oh, with the highest grandeur! to accept it. One folly was enough, especially when it was to last for ever; a second one would not much set it off. In this vow of reticence there was a certain nobleness which kept Isabel going; but Madame Merle had been right, for all that, in taking her precautions.
她几乎希望嫉妒是可能的。它本来是为了提神而做的。这难道不是幸福的症状之一吗？然而，梅尔夫人很聪明，聪明到她可能假装比伊莎贝尔更了解自己。这位年轻女子一直有着丰富的决心——其中许多都具有高尚的品格。但在任何时期，它们（在她内心深处）都没有像今天这样繁荣昌盛。确实，他们都有家族相似之处。他们可能被概括为这样的决心：如果她不快乐，那不应该是她自己的过错。她那可怜的翅膀精灵一直有着尽力而为的强烈愿望，而且至今还没有被严重挫败。因此，它希望坚守正义，而不是通过小小的报复来偿还自己。将梅尔夫人与失望联系在一起只是一种小小的报复——尤其是因为从中获得的快乐是完全不真诚的。这可能会增加她的痛苦感，但不会放松她的束缚。她不可能假装没有睁着眼睛做事。如果有一个女孩是自由球员的话，她就是了。恋爱中的女孩无疑不是一个自由的人；但她的错误的唯一根源在于她自己。没有阴谋，没有圈套；她看过、考虑过、选择过。当一个女人犯了这样的错误时，只有一种方法可以弥补它——就是极大地（哦，以最高的庄严！接受它。一次愚蠢就足够了，尤其是当它永远持续下去时；第二次愚蠢就足够了。在这种沉默寡言的誓言中，有一种高贵的气质让伊莎贝尔继续前进；但尽管如此，梅尔夫人采取的预防措施是正确的。

One day about a month after Ralph Touchett’s arrival in Rome Isabel came back from a walk with Pansy. It was not only a part of her general determination to be just that she was at present very thankful for Pansy-it was also a part of her tenderness for things that were pure and weak. Pansy was dear to her, and there was nothing else in her life that had the rightness of the young creature’s attachment or the sweetness of her own clearness about it. It was like a soft presence-like a small hand in her own; on Pansy’s part it was more than an affection-it was a kind of ardent coercive faith. On her own side her sense of the girl’s dependence was more than a pleasure; it operated as a definite reason when motives threatened to fail her. She had said to herself that we must take our duty where we find it, and that we must look for it as much as possible. Pansy’s sympathy was a direct admonition; it seemed to say that here was an opportunity, not eminent perhaps, but unmistakeable. Yet an opportunity for what Isabel could hardly have said; in general, to be more for the child than the child was able to be for herself. Isabel could have smiled, in these days, to remember that her little companion had once been ambiguous, for she now perceived that Pansy’s ambiguities were simply her own grossness of vision. She had been unable to believe any one could care so much-so extraordinarily much-to please. But since then she had seen this delicate faculty in operation, and now she knew what to think of it. It was the whole creature-it was a sort of genius. Pansy had no pride to interfere with it, and though she was constantly extending her conquests she took no credit for them. The two were constantly together; Mrs. Osmond was rarely seen without her stepdaughter. Isabel liked her company; it had the effect of one’s carrying a nosegay composed all of the same flower. And then not to neglect Pansy, not under any provocation to neglect her-this she had made an article of religion. The young girl had every appearance of being happier in Isabel’s society than in that of any one save her father, whom she admired with an intensity justified by the fact that, as paternity was an exquisite pleasure to Gilbert Osmond, he had always been luxuriously mild. Isabel knew how Pansy liked to be with her and how she studied the means of pleasing her. She had decided that the best way of pleasing her was negative, and consisted in not giving her trouble-a conviction which certainly could have had no reference to trouble already existing. She was therefore ingeniously passive and almost imaginatively docile; she was careful even to moderate the eagerness with which she assented to Isabel’s propositions and which might have implied that she could have thought otherwise. She never interrupted, never asked social questions, and though she delighted in approbation, to the point of turning pale when it came to her, never held out her hand for it. She only looked toward it wistfully-an attitude which, as she grew older, made her eyes the prettiest in the world. When during the second winter at Palazzo Roccanera she began to go to parties, to dances, she always, at a reasonable hour, lest Mrs. Osmond should be tired, was the first to propose departure. Isabel appreciated the sacrifice of the late dances, for she knew her little companion had a passionate pleasure in this exercise, taking her steps to the music like a conscientious fairy. Society, moreover, had no drawbacks for her; she liked even the tiresome parts-the heat of ball-rooms, the dulness of dinners, the crush at the door, the awkward waiting for the carriage. During the day, in this vehicle, beside her stepmother, she sat in a small fixed, appreciative posture, bending forward and faintly smiling, as if she had been taken to drive for the first time.
拉尔夫·图切特抵达罗马大约一个月后的一天，伊莎贝尔和潘西散步回来了。她现在非常感谢潘西，这不仅是她要公正的决心的一部分，也是她对纯洁和脆弱事物的温柔的一部分。潘西对她来说是亲爱的，在她的生活中，没有什么比这个年轻生物的依恋更正确，也没有她自己对它的清晰的甜蜜。这就像一种温柔的存在——就像她自己的一只小手；对潘西来说，这不仅仅是一种感情，而是一种强烈的、强制性的信仰。就她而言，她对女孩的依赖的感觉不仅仅是一种快乐；她还感到很高兴。当她的动机可能会失败时，它就成为一个明确的理由。她对自己说，我们必须在找到责任的地方履行我们的责任，并且我们必须尽可能多地寻找它。潘西的同情是一种直接的警告。它似乎在说，这是一个机会，也许不是很显着，但却是不容置疑的。然而，这是一个伊莎贝尔几乎无法说出的机会；一般来说，为孩子做的事比为孩子自己做的多。伊莎贝尔在这些日子里想起她的小伙伴曾经是模棱两可的，她可能会微笑，因为她现在意识到潘西的模棱两可只是她自己的粗俗眼光。她无法相信有人会如此关心——如此非凡地——取悦她。但从那时起，她亲眼目睹了这种微妙的能力的运作，现在她知道该怎么想了。这是整个生物——它是一种天才。潘西没有骄傲去干涉它，尽管她不断地扩大她的征服范围，但她并没有因此而获得功劳。两人经常在一起；很少有人看到奥斯蒙德夫人没有她的继女。 伊莎贝尔喜欢她的陪伴；它的效果就像一个人拿着由同一朵花组成的花束。然后，不要忽视潘西，不要在任何挑衅下忽视她——她已经把这当作了一条宗教信仰。这个年轻的女孩在伊莎贝尔的社交中表现得比在她父亲以外的任何人中都快乐，她对父亲有一种强烈的钦佩，因为当父亲对吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德来说是一种美妙的快乐，而他一直是极其温和的。 。伊莎贝尔知道潘西多么喜欢和她在一起，也知道她如何研究取悦她的方法。她认为取悦她的最好方式是消极的，就是不给她带来麻烦——这种信念肯定与已经存在的麻烦无关。因此，她巧妙地表现出被动，而且几乎是想象中的温顺。她甚至小心翼翼地克制了自己同意伊莎贝尔提议的急切程度，这可能意味着她本来可以有不同的想法。她从不打断别人的话，从不问社交问题，虽然她很高兴得到别人的认可，但她却从不伸手去争取。她只是若有所思地看着它——随着年龄的增长，这种态度使她的眼睛成为世界上最美丽的眼睛。当她在罗卡内拉宫的第二个冬天开始参加聚会、舞会时，她总是在合理的时间第一个提议离开，以免奥斯蒙德夫人感到疲倦。伊莎贝尔很欣赏最后舞蹈的牺牲，因为她知道她的小伙伴在这项练习中充满了激情，像一位认真的仙女一样随着音乐迈着步伐。 此外，社会对她来说没有任何缺点。她甚至喜欢那些令人厌烦的部分——舞厅的炎热、晚餐的沉闷、门口的拥挤、等待马车的尴尬。白天，在这辆车上，继母身边，她以一种固定的、欣赏的小姿势坐着，向前弯着腰，淡淡地微笑着，就像她第一次被带去开车一样。

On the day I speak of they had been driven out of one of the gates of the city and at the end of half an hour had left the carriage to await them by the roadside while they walked away over the short grass of the Campagna, which even in the winter months is sprinkled with delicate flowers. This was almost a daily habit with Isabel, who was fond of a walk and had a swift length of step, though not so swift a one as on her first coming to Europe. It was not the form of exercise that Pansy loved best, but she liked it, because she liked everything; and she moved with a shorter undulation beside her father’s wife, who afterwards, on their return to Rome, paid a tribute to her preferences by making the circuit of the Pincian or the Villa Borghese. She had gathered a handful of flowers in a sunny hollow, far from the walls of Rome, and on reaching Palazzo Roccanera she went straight to her room, to put them into water. Isabel passed into the drawing-room, the one she herself usually occupied, the second in order from the large ante-chamber which was entered from the staircase and in which even Gilbert Osmond’s rich devices had not been able to correct a look of rather grand nudity. just beyond the threshold of the drawing-room she stopped short, the reason for her doing so being that she had received an impression. The impression had, in strictness, nothing unprecedented; but she felt it as something new, and the soundlessness of her step gave her time to take in the scene before she interrupted it. Madame Merle was there in her bonnet, and Gilbert Osmond was talking to her; for a minute they were unaware she had come in. Isabel had often seen that before, certainly; but what she had not seen, or at least had not noticed, was that their colloquy had for the moment converted itself into a sort of familiar silence, from which she instantly perceived that her entrance would startle them. Madame Merle was standing on the rug, a little way from the fire; Osmond was in a deep chair, leaning back and looking at her. Her head was erect, as usual, but her eyes were bent on his. What struck Isabel first was that he was sitting while Madame Merle stood; there was an anomaly in this that arrested her. Then she perceived that they had arrived at a desultory pause in their exchange of ideas and were musing, face to face, with the freedom of old friends who sometimes exchange ideas without uttering them. There was nothing to shock in this; they were old friends in fact. But the thing made an image, lasting only a moment, like a sudden flicker of light. Their relative positions, their absorbed mutual gaze, struck her as something detected. But it was all over by the time she had fairly seen it. Madame Merle had seen her and had welcomed her without moving; her husband, on the other hand, had instantly jumped up. He presently murmured something about wanting a walk and, after having asked their visitor to excuse him, left the room.
在我所说的那天，他们被赶出了城门，半小时后，他们把马车留在路边等他们，而他们则穿过坎帕尼亚的短草走开。即使在冬天，也开满了娇嫩的花朵。这几乎成了伊莎贝尔的日常习惯，她喜欢散步，步子也很快，虽然不像第一次来欧洲时那么快。这不是潘西最喜欢的锻炼方式，但她喜欢它，因为她喜欢一切；她喜欢它。她在她父亲的妻子身边移动得更短，后来，当他们返回罗马时，她绕着平西安或博尔盖塞别墅转了一圈，以表达她的喜好。她在远离罗马城墙的一个阳光明媚的山谷里采了一把花，到达罗卡内拉宫后，她直接回到自己的房间，把它们放进水里。伊莎贝尔走进客厅，她自己经常住的那间，是从楼梯进入的大前厅中的第二个，即使吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德的丰富手段也无法纠正它相当宏伟的外观。裸露。刚跨过客厅的门槛，她突然停了下来，因为她收到了一个印象。严格来说，这种印象并不是史无前例的。但她感觉这是一种新事物，无声的脚步让她有时间在打断之前欣赏这一场景。梅尔夫人戴着帽子，吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德正在跟她说话。有那么一会儿，他们没有意识到她进来了。 当然，伊莎贝尔以前经常看到这种情况。但她没有看到，或者至少没有注意到，他们的谈话暂时变成了一种熟悉的沉默，她立刻意识到她的到来会让他们感到惊讶。梅尔夫人站在地毯上，离火不远。奥斯蒙德坐在一张很深的椅子上，靠在椅背上看着她。她的头像往常一样昂着，但眼睛却盯着他。首先让伊莎贝尔震惊的是，他坐着，而梅尔夫人站着。这其中有一个反常现象使她被捕。然后她发现他们在思想交流中出现了断断续续的停顿，面对面地沉思着，就像老朋友有时会不言而喻地交流思想一样自由。这并没有什么值得震惊的。事实上他们是老朋友了。但那东西形成了一个影像，只持续了片刻，就像突然闪烁的光芒。他们的相对位置，他们全神贯注的相互凝视，让她觉得某种东西被察觉了。但当她真正看到这一切时，一切都结束了。梅尔夫人看见了她，并一动不动地欢迎了她。而她的丈夫却瞬间跳了起来。不久，他低声说了一些想要散步的事情，并在请来访者原谅后离开了房间。

‘I came to see you, thinking you would have come in; and as you hadn’t I waited for you,’ Madame Merle said.
“我来看你，以为你会进来；因为你没有，我就在等你。”梅尔夫人说道。

‘Didn’t he ask you to sit down?’ Isabel asked with a smile.
“他没有请你坐下吗？”伊莎贝尔微笑着问道。

Madame Merle looked about her. ‘Ah, it’s very true; I was going away.’
梅尔夫人环顾四周。 ‘啊，确实如此；我要走了。

‘You must stay now.’
“你现在必须留下来。”

‘Certainly. I came for a reason; I’ve something on my mind.’
'当然。我来是有原因的；我心里有事。

‘I’ve told you that before,’ Isabel said-”that it takes something extraordinary to bring you to this house.’
“我以前就告诉过你，”伊莎贝尔说，“需要一些非凡的事情才能把你带到这所房子。”

‘And you know what I’ve told you; that whether I come or whether I stay away, I’ve always the same motive-the affection I bear you.’
“你知道我告诉过你什么；无论我来还是离开，我的动机都是一样的——我对你的感情。

‘Yes, you’ve told me that.’
“是的，你已经告诉过我了。”

‘You look just now as if you didn’t believe it,’ said Madame Merle.
“你刚才看起来好像不相信，”梅尔夫人说。

‘Ah,’ Isabel answered, ‘the profundity of your motives, that’s the last thing I doubt!’
“啊，”伊莎贝尔回答道，“我最不怀疑的是你动机的深刻性！”

‘You doubt sooner of the sincerity of my words.’
“你很快就会怀疑我的话的诚意。”

Isabel shook her head gravely. ‘I know you’ve always been kind to me.’
伊莎贝尔严肃地摇摇头。 “我知道你一直对我很好。”

‘As often as you would let me. You don’t always take it; then one has to let you alone. It’s not to do you a kindness, however, that I’ve come to-day; it’s quite another affair. I’ve come to get rid of a trouble of my own-to make it over to you. I’ve been talking to your husband about it.’
“只要你愿意，我就可以。”你并不总是接受它；那么就必须让你一个人呆着。不过，我今天来并不是为了向您表示善意，而是为了向您表示感谢。这是另一回事了。我来是为了摆脱自己的麻烦——把它交给你。我一直在和你丈夫谈过这件事。

‘I’m surprised at that; he doesn’t like troubles.’
“我对此感到惊讶；他不喜欢麻烦。

‘Especially other people’s; I know very well. But neither do you, I suppose. At any rate, whether you do or not, you must help me. It’s about poor Mr. Rosier.’
“尤其是其他人的；我很清楚。但我想你也不会。无论如何，不​​管你愿意不愿意，你都必须帮助我。这是关于可怜的罗齐尔先生的。

‘Ah,’ said Isabel reflectively, ‘it’s his trouble then, not yours.’
“啊，”伊莎贝尔若有所思地说，“那么这是他的麻烦，不是你的。”

‘He has succeeded in saddling me with it. He comes to see me ten times a week, to talk about Pansy.’
“他成功地让我承担了这个任务。他每周来看我十次，谈论潘西。

‘Yes, he wants to marry her. I know all about it.’
‘是的，他想娶她。我知道这一切。

Madame Merle hesitated. ‘I gathered from your husband that perhaps you didn’t.’
梅尔夫人犹豫了。 “我从你丈夫那里得知，也许你没有。”

‘How should he know what I know? He has never spoken to me of the matter.’
‘他怎么会知道我所知道的？他从来没有和我谈过这件事。

‘It’s probably because he doesn’t know how to speak of it.’
“这可能是因为他不知道该怎么说。”

‘It’s nevertheless the sort of question in which he’s rarely at fault.’
“尽管如此，在这种问题上他很少犯错。”

‘Yes, because as a general thing he knows perfectly well what to think.
“是的，因为总的来说，他非常清楚自己在想什么。

To-day he doesn’t.’
今天他没有。

‘Haven’t you been telling him?’ Isabel asked.
“你没有告诉他吗？”伊莎贝尔问。

Madame Merle gave a bright, voluntary smile. ‘Do you know you’re a little dry?’
梅尔夫人露出灿烂、自愿的微笑。 “你知道你有点干吗？”

‘Yes; I can’t help it. Mr. Rosier has also talked to me.’
'是的;我情不自禁。罗齐尔先生也跟我谈过。

‘In that there’s some reason. You’re so near the child.’
‘这里面有一些原因。你离孩子太近了。

‘Ah,’ said Isabel, ‘for all the comfort I’ve given him! If you think me dry, I wonder what he thinks.’
“啊，”伊莎贝尔说，“感谢我给了他所有的安慰！”如果你认为我很干，我想知道他怎么想。

‘I believe he thinks you can do more than you have done.’
“我相信他认为你能做的比你已经做的更多。”

‘I can do nothing.’
“我无能为力。”

‘You can do more at least than I. I don’t know what mysterious connection he may have discovered between me and Pansy; but he came to me from the first, as if I held his fortune in my hand. Now he keeps coming back, to spur me up, to know what hope there is, to pour out his feelings.’
“你至少能比我做得更多。我不知道他可能发现了我和潘西之间什么神秘的联系；但他从一开始就来找我，就好像我手里握着他的财产一样。现在他不断回来，激励我，让我知道还有什么希望，倾诉他的感受。”

‘He’s very much in love,’ said Isabel.
“他非常相爱，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘Very much-for him.’
“非常——为他。”

‘Very much for Pansy, you might say as well.’
“你也可能会说，非常感谢潘西。”

Madame Merle dropped her eyes a moment. ‘Don’t you think she’s attractive?’
梅尔夫人垂下眼睛片刻。 “你不觉得她很有魅力吗？”

‘The dearest little person possible-but very limited.’
“可能是最亲爱的小人物——但非常有限。”

‘She ought to be all the easier for Mr. Rosier to love. Mr. Rosier’s not unlimited.’
“罗齐尔先生应该更容易爱她。”罗齐尔先生并不是没有限制的。

‘No,’ said Isabel, ‘he has about the extent of one’s pocket-handkerchief-the small ones with lace borders.’ Her humour had lately turned a good deal to sarcasm, but in a moment she was ashamed of exercising it on so innocent an object as Pansy’s suitor. ‘He’s very kind, very honest,’ she presently added; ‘and he’s not such a fool as he seems.’
“不，”伊莎贝尔说，“他的手帕大小与人的口袋手帕差不多——带有花边的小手帕。”她的幽默最近变成了讽刺，但一会儿她就为在这样的场合运用它而感到羞愧。作为Pansy的追求者是无辜的。 “他非常善良，非常诚实，”她随即补充道。 “而且他并不像看上去那么傻。”

‘He assures me that she delights in him,’ said Madame Merle.
“他向我保证她很喜欢他，”梅尔夫人说。

‘I don’t know; I’ve not asked her.’
'我不知道;我没有问过她。

‘You’ve never sounded her a little?’
“你从来没有听过她的声音吗？”

‘It’s not my place; it’s her father’s.’
‘这不是我的地方；这是她父亲的。

‘Ah, you’re too literal!’ said Madame Merle.
“啊，你说得太直白了！”梅尔夫人说。

‘I must judge for myself.’
“我必须自己判断。”

Madame Merle gave her smile again. ‘It isn’t easy to help you.’
梅尔夫人再次露出笑容。 “帮助你并不容易。”

‘To help me?’ said Isabel very seriously. ‘What do you mean?’
“来帮助我？”伊莎贝尔非常严肃地说。 '你是什么意思？'

‘It’s easy to displease you. Don’t you see how wise I am to be careful? I notify you, at any rate, as I notified Osmond, that I wash my hands of the love-affairs of Miss Pansy and Mr. Edward Rosier. Je n’y peux rien, moi! I can’t talk to Pansy about him. Especially,’ added Madame Merle, ‘as I don’t think him a paragon of husbands.’
‘很容易让你不高兴。难道你没看到我小心谨慎是多么明智吗？无论如何，正如我通知奥斯蒙德一样，我通知您，我不再关注潘西小姐和爱德华·罗齐尔先生的风流韵事。 Je n'y peux rien，我！我不能和潘西谈论他。尤其是，”梅尔夫人补充道，“因为我不认为他是丈夫的典范。”

Isabel reflected a little; after which, with a smile, ‘You don’t wash your hands then!’ she said. After which again she added in another tone: ‘You can’t-you’re too much interested.’
伊莎贝尔想了想；然后她微笑着说：“那你就不洗手了！”然后她又用另一种语气补充道：“你不能——你太感兴趣了。”

Madame Merle slowly rose; she had given Isabel a look as rapid as the intimation that had gleamed before our heroine a few moments before. Only this time the latter saw nothing. ‘Ask him the next time, and you’ll see.’
梅尔夫人缓缓站起身来。她迅速地看了伊莎贝尔一眼，就像几分钟前在我们的女主人公面前闪过的暗示一样。只是这一次后者什么也没看到。 “下次问问他，你就会知道了。”

‘I can’t ask him; he has ceased to come to the house. Gilbert has let him know that he’s not welcome.’
“我不能问他；他不再来这所房子了。吉尔伯特让他知道他不受欢迎。

‘Ah yes,’ said Madame Merle, ‘I forgot that-though it’s the burden of his lamentation. He says Osmond has insulted him. All the same,’ she went on, ‘Osmond doesn’t dislike him so much as he thinks.’ She had got up as if to close the conversation, but she lingered, looking about her, and had evidently more to say. Isabel perceived this and even saw the point she had in view; but Isabel also had her own reasons for not opening the way.
“啊，是的，”梅尔夫人说，“我忘了这一点——尽管这是他哀悼的重担。他说奥斯蒙德侮辱了他。尽管如此，”她继续说道，“奥斯蒙德并不像他想象的那么不喜欢他。”她站起来，似乎要结束谈话，但她徘徊着，环顾四周，显然还有更多话要说。伊莎贝尔意识到了这一点，甚至明白了她的观点。但伊莎贝尔不开路也有她自己的理由。

‘That must have pleased him, if you’ve told him,’ she answered, smiling.
“如果你告诉他的话，他一定很高兴，”她微笑着回答。

‘Certainly I’ve told him; as far as that goes I’ve encouraged him. I’ve preached patience, have said that his case isn’t desperate if he’ll only hold his tongue and be quiet. Unfortunately he has taken it into his head to be jealous.’
“当然我已经告诉过他了；就这一点而言，我一直鼓励他。我一直宣扬耐心，说过只要他保持沉默并保持沉默，他的情况并不危急。不幸的是，他脑子里充满了嫉妒。

‘Jealous?
'嫉妒的？

‘Jealous of Lord Warburton, who, he says, is always here.’
“嫉妒沃伯顿勋爵，他说沃伯顿勋爵一直都在这里。”

Isabel, who was tired, had remained sitting; but at this she also rose. ‘Ah!’ she exclaimed simply, moving slowly to the fireplace. Madame Merle observed her as she passed and while she stood a moment before the mantel-glass and pushed into its place a wandering tress of hair.
伊莎贝尔很累了，仍然坐着。但此时她也站了起来。 “啊！”她简单地喊了一声，慢慢地走向壁炉。梅尔夫人在她经过时观察着她，她在壁炉架玻璃前站了一会儿，把一缕飘逸的头发推到原来的位置。

‘Poor Mr. Rosier keeps saying there’s nothing impossible in Lord Warburton’s falling in love with Pansy,’ Madame Merle went on.
“可怜的罗齐尔先生一直说沃伯顿勋爵爱上潘西没有什么不可能的，”梅尔夫人继续说道。

Isabel was silent a little; she turned away from the glass.
伊莎贝尔沉默了一会儿。她转身离开玻璃。

‘It’s true-there’s nothing impossible,’ she returned at last, gravely and more gently.
“是的，没有什么是不可能的。”她最后回答道，语气严肃而温和。

‘So I’ve had to admit to Mr. Rosier. So, too, your husband thinks.’
“所以我不得不向罗齐尔先生承认。你丈夫也这么认为。

‘That I don’t know.’
“我不知道。”

‘Ask him and you’ll see.’
“问问他，你就会知道。”

‘I shall not ask him,’ said Isabel.
“我不会问他，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘Pardon me; I forgot you had pointed that out. Of course,’ Madame Merle added, ‘you’ve had infinitely more observation of Lord Warburton’s behaviour than I.’
'对不起;我忘了你曾指出过这一点。当然，”梅尔夫人补充道，“你对沃伯顿勋爵行为的观察比我多得多。”

‘I see no reason why I shouldn’t tell you that he likes my stepdaughter very much.’
“我没有理由不告诉你他非常喜欢我的继女。”

Madame Merle gave one of her quick looks again. ‘Likes her, you mean-Mr. Rosier means?’
梅尔夫人又快速地看了一眼。 “你是说喜欢她——先生。”罗齐尔的意思是？

‘I don’t know how Mr. Rosier means; but Lord Warburton has let me know that he’s charmed with Pansy.’
“我不知道罗齐尔先生的意思；但沃伯顿勋爵让我知道他对潘西很着迷。”

‘And you’ve never told Osmond?’ This observation was immediate, precipitate; it almost burst from Madame Merle’s lips.
“你从来没有告诉过奥斯蒙德？”这个观察是直接的、仓促的。这句话差点从梅尔夫人的嘴里喷出来。

Isabel’s eyes rested on her. ‘I suppose he’ll know in time; Lord Warburton has a tongue and knows how to express himself.’
伊莎贝尔的目光落在她身上。 “我想他会及时知道的；沃伯顿勋爵有口才，知道如何表达自己。”

Madame Merle instantly became conscious that she had spoken more quickly than usual, and the reflection brought the colour to her cheek. She gave the treacherous impulse time to subside and then said as if she had been thinking it over a little: ‘That would be better than marrying poor Mr. Rosier.’
梅尔夫人立刻意识到自己说得比平时更快了，倒影让她脸颊泛红。她给了这种奸诈的冲动一段时间平息下来，然后仿佛经过深思熟虑后说道：“那比嫁给可怜的罗齐尔先生要好。”

‘Much better, I think.’
“我想好多了。”

‘It would be very delightful; it would be a great marriage. It’s really very kind of him.’
‘那将是非常令人愉快的；这将是一段美好的婚姻。他真是太好了。

‘Very kind of him?’
“他很好吗？”

‘To drop his eyes on a simple little girl.’
“把他的目光落在一个简单的小女孩身上。”

‘I don’t see that.’
“我不这么认为。”

‘It’s very good of you. But after all, Pansy Osmond-.’
‘你真是太好了。但毕竟，潘西·奥斯蒙德——”

‘After all, Pansy Osmond’s the most attractive person he has ever known!’ Isabel exclaimed.
“毕竟，潘西·奥斯蒙德是他所认识的最有魅力的人！”伊莎贝尔惊呼道。

Madame Merle stared, and indeed she was justly bewildered. ‘Ah, a moment ago I thought you seemed rather to disparage her.’
梅尔夫人瞪大眼睛，确实感到困惑。 “啊，刚才我还以为你似乎在贬低她呢。”

‘I said she was limited. And so she is. And so’s Lord Warburton.’
“我说过她的能力有限。她也是。沃伯顿勋爵也是如此。

‘So are we all, if you come to that. If it’s no more than Pansy deserves, all the better. But if she fixes her affections on Mr. Rosier I won’t admit that she deserves it. That will be too perverse.’
“如果你这么想的话，我们大家也是如此。如果这不超过潘西应得的，那就更好了。但如果她把感情寄托在罗齐尔先生身上，我不会承认这是她应得的。那未免太反常了。

‘Mr. Rosier’s a nuisance!’ Isabel cried abruptly.
'先生。 “罗齐尔真讨厌！”伊莎贝尔突然喊道。

‘I quite agree with you, and I’m delighted to know that I’m not expected to feed his flame. For the future, when he calls on me, my door shall be closed to him.’ And gathering her mantle together Madame Merle prepared to depart. She was checked, however, on her progress to the door, by an inconsequent request from Isabel.
“我非常同意你的观点，我很高兴知道我不会助长他的火焰。将来，当他来找我的时候，我的门就会对他关闭。”梅尔夫人收拾好斗篷，准备离开。然而，当她走向门口时，伊莎贝尔提出了一个不合时宜的要求，结果被拦住了。

‘All the same, you know, be kind to him.’
“不管怎样，你知道，要善待他。”

She lifted her shoulders and eyebrows and stood looking at her friend. ‘I don’t understand your contradictions! Decidedly I shan’t be kind to him, for it will be a false kindness. I want to see her married to Lord Warburton.’
她抬起肩膀和眉毛，站在那里看着她的朋友。 ‘我不明白你的矛盾！我坚决不会对他友善，因为那是一种虚假的友善。我希望看到她嫁给沃伯顿勋爵。

‘You had better wait till he asks her.’
“你最好等他问她。”

‘If what you say’s true, he’ll ask her. Especially,’ said Madame Merle in a moment, ‘if you make him.’
“如果你说的是真的，他会问她的。”尤其是，”梅尔夫人立刻说道，“如果你创造了他的话。”

‘If I make him?’
“如果我让他这么做呢？”

‘It’s quite in your power. You’ve great influence with him.’
‘这完全在你的权力范围内。你对他影响很大。

Isabel frowned a little. ‘Where did you learn that?’
伊莎贝尔微微皱起眉头。 “你从哪里学来的？”

‘Mrs. Touchett told me. Not you-never!’ said Madame Merle, smiling.
'太太。杜切特告诉我的。不是你——从来没有！”梅尔夫人微笑着说道。

‘I certainly never told you anything of the sort.’
“我当然从来没有告诉过你这类事情。”

‘You might have done far as opportunity went-when we were by way of being confidential with each other. But you really told me very little; I’ve often thought so since.’
“只要有机会，你可能会这么做——当我们彼此保密时。但你告诉我的实在太少；从那以后我经常这么想。

Isabel had thought so too, and sometimes with a certain satisfaction. But she didn’t admit it now-perhaps because she wished not to appear to exult in it. ‘You seem to have had an excellent informant in my aunt,’ she simply returned.
伊莎贝尔也这么想，有时还带着某种满足。但她现在没有承认——也许是因为她不想显得欣喜若狂。 “看来我姨妈是你的一个出色的线人。”她简单地回答道。

‘She let me know you had declined an offer of marriage from Lord Warburton, because she was greatly vexed and was full of the subject. Of course I think you’ve done better in doing as you did. But if you wouldn’t marry Lord Warburton yourself, make him the reparation of helping him to marry some one else.’
“她让我知道你拒绝了沃伯顿勋爵的求婚，因为她非常恼火并且对这个话题充满了兴趣。当然，我认为你这样做做得更好。但如果你自己不愿意嫁给沃伯顿勋爵，那就让他作为补偿，帮助他嫁给别人。”

Isabel listened to this with a face that persisted in not reflecting the bright expressiveness of Madame Merle’s. But in a moment she said, reasonably and gently enough: ‘I should be very glad indeed if, as regards Pansy, it could be arranged.’ Upon which her companion, who seemed to regard this as a speech of good omen, embraced her more tenderly than might have been expected and triumphantly withdrew.
伊莎贝尔听着这句话，脸上的表情始终没有反映出梅尔夫人的明亮表现力。但过了一会儿，她合理而温和地说道：“对于潘西来说，如果能安排好的话，我确实会感到非常高兴。”说完，她的同伴似乎认为这是一个好兆头，拥抱了她比预想的更加温柔，然后得意洋洋地退出了。

Chapter 41
第41章

Osmond touched on this matter that evening for the first time; coming very late into the drawing-room, where she was sitting alone. They had spent the evening at home, and Pansy had gone to bed; he himself had been sitting since dinner in a small apartment in which he had arranged his books and which he called his study. At ten o’clock Lord Warburton had come in, as he always did when he knew from Isabel that she was to be at home; he was going somewhere else and he sat for half an hour. Isabel, after asking him for news of Ralph, said very little to him, on purpose; she wished him to talk with her stepdaughter. She pretended to read; she even went after a little to the piano; she asked herself if she mightn’t leave the room. She had come little by little to think well of the idea of Pansy’s becoming the wife of the master of beautiful Lockleigh, though at first it had not presented itself in a manner to excite her enthusiasm. Madame Merle, that afternoon, had applied the match to an accumulation of inflammable material. When Isabel was unhappy she always looked about her-partly from impulse and partly by theory-for some form of positive exertion. She could never rid herself of the sense that unhappiness was a state of disease-of suffering as opposed to doing. To ‘do’-it hardly mattered what-would therefore be an escape, perhaps in some degree a remedy. Besides, she wished to convince herself that she had done everything possible to content her husband; she was determined not to be haunted by visions of his wife’s limpness under appeal. It would please him greatly to see Pansy married to an English nobleman, and justly please him, since this nobleman was so sound a character. It seemed to Isabel that if she could make it her duty to bring about such an event she should play the part of a good wife. She wanted to be that; she wanted to be able to believe sincerely, and with proof of it, that she had been that. Then such an undertaking had other recommendations. It would occupy her, and she desired occupation. It would even amuse her, and if she could really amuse herself she perhaps might be saved. Lastly, it would be a service to Lord Warburton, who evidently pleased himself greatly with the charming girl. It was a little ‘weird’ he should-being what he was; but there was no accounting for such impressions. Pansy might captivate any one-any one at least but Lord Warburton. Isabel would have thought her too small, too slight, perhaps even too artificial for that. There was always a little of the doll about her, and that was not what he had been looking for. Still, who could say what men ever were looking for? They looked for what they found; they knew what pleased them only when they saw it. No theory was valid in such matters, and nothing was more unaccountable or more natural than anything else. If he had cared for her it might seem odd he should care for Pansy, who was so different; but he had not cared for her so much as he had supposed. Or if he had, he had completely got over it, and it was natural that, as that affair had failed, he should think something of quite another sort might succeed. Enthusiasm, as I say, had not come at first to Isabel, but it came to-day and made her feel almost happy. It was astonishing what happiness she could still find in the idea of procuring a pleasure for her husband. It was a pity, however, that Edward Rosier had crossed their path!
那天晚上，奥斯蒙德首次谈到了这个问题。很晚才走进客厅，她独自坐在那儿。他们在家里度过了一个晚上，潘西已经上床睡觉了。晚饭后他自己就坐在一间小公寓里，他把书放在里面，他称之为书房。十点钟，沃伯顿勋爵进来了，当他从伊莎贝尔那里得知她要在家时，他总是这样做。他要去别的地方，坐了半个小时。伊莎贝尔向他打听拉尔夫的消息后，故意对他只字不提。她希望他能和她的继女谈谈。她假装在读书；她甚至还学了一点钢琴。她问自己是否可以离开房间。她逐渐对潘西成为美丽的洛克利主人的妻子的想法产生了好感，尽管一开始它并没有以激发她热情的方式出现。那天下午，梅尔夫人用火柴扑灭了一堆易燃材料。当伊莎贝尔不开心时，她总是四处寻找某种形式的积极努力——部分出于冲动，部分出于理论。她永远无法摆脱这样一种感觉，即不快乐是一种疾病状态——痛苦而不是行动。因此，“做”——做什么几乎不重要——将是一种逃避，也许在某种程度上是一种补救措施。此外，她还想让自己相信，她已经尽了一切努力让丈夫满意；她决心不被他妻子在上诉中软弱无力的景象所困扰。看到潘西嫁给一位英国贵族，他会非常高兴，而且他也很高兴，因为这位贵族的性格是如此健全。 伊莎贝尔觉得，如果她能以促成这样的事情为己任，她就应该扮演一个好妻子的角色。她想成为那样的人；她希望能够真诚地相信，并且有证据证明，她就是那样的人。然后这样的事业还有其他建议。它会占据她的时间，而她也渴望占据它。甚至会让她觉得好笑，如果她真的能自娱自乐的话，也许她就有救了。最后，这对沃伯顿勋爵来说是一种服务，他显然对这个迷人的女孩非常满意。他本来就是这样，这有点“奇怪”。但没有解释这种印象。潘西可能会吸引任何人——至少除了沃伯顿勋爵。伊莎贝尔可能会认为她太小、太瘦弱，甚至可能太做作。她身上总有一点洋娃娃的味道，但这并不是他一直在寻找的。不过，谁又能说得清男人到底在寻找什么呢？他们寻找他们发现的东西；只有当他们看到什么时，他们才知道什么让他们高兴。在这些问题上，没有任何理论是有效的，也没有什么比其他事情更不负责任或更自然的了。如果他关心她，那么他关心潘西可能会显得很奇怪，因为她是如此不同。但他并没有像他想象的那样关心她。或者，如果他有，他已经完全克服了它，很自然，既然那件事失败了，他应该认为另一种完全不同的事情可能会成功。正如我所说，伊莎贝尔一开始并没有表现出热情，但今天却出现了，让她几乎感到高兴。令人惊讶的是，她仍然能从为丈夫带来快乐的想法中找到快乐。但可惜的是，爱德华·罗齐尔却横亘在了他们的面前！

At this reflection the light that had suddenly gleamed upon that path lost something of its brightness. Isabel was unfortunately as sure that Pansy thought Mr. Rosier the nicest of all the young men sure as if she had held an interview with her on the subject. It was very tiresome she should be so sure, when she had carefully abstained from informing herself; almost as tiresome as that poor Mr. Rosier should have taken it into his own head. He was certainly very inferior to Lord Warburton. It was not the difference in fortune so much as the difference in the men; the young American was really so light a weight. He was much more of the type of the useless fine gentleman than the English nobleman. It was true that there was no particular reason why Pansy should marry a statesman; still, if a statesman admired her, that was his affair, and she would make a perfect little pearl of a peeress.
在这个反射下，那条路上突然闪烁的光芒失去了一些亮度。不幸的是，伊莎贝尔确信潘西认为罗齐尔先生是所有年轻人中最好的，就好像她曾就这个问题接受过她的采访一样。当她小心翼翼地避免告诉自己的时候，她竟然这么确定，这真是令人厌烦。可怜的罗齐尔先生应该把这件事记在自己的脑子里，这几乎是令人厌烦的。他确实比沃伯顿勋爵差很多。与其说是命运的差异，不如说是人的差异。这位美国年轻人的体重实在是太轻了。他更像是那种无用的绅士，而不是英国贵族。确实，潘西应该嫁给一位政治家并没有什么特别的理由。不过，如果一个政治家钦佩她，那是他的事，而她将成为贵族女中的一颗完美的小珍珠。

It may seem to the reader that Mrs. Osmond had grown of a sudden strangely cynical, for she ended by saying to herself that this difficulty could probably be arranged. An impediment that was embodied in poor Rosier could not anyhow present itself as a dangerous one; there were always means of levelling secondary obstacles. Isabel was perfectly aware that she had not taken the measure of Pansy’s tenacity, which might prove to be inconveniently great; but she inclined to see her as rather letting go, under suggestion, than as clutching under deprecation-since she had certainly the faculty of assent developed in a very much higher degree than that of protest. She would cling, yes, she would cling; but it really mattered to her very little what she clung to. Lord Warburton would do as well as Mr. Rosier-especially as she seemed quite to like him; she had expressed this sentiment to Isabel without a single reservation; she had said she thought his conversation most interesting-he had told her all about India. His manner to Pansy had been of the rightest and easiest-Isabel noticed that for herself, as she also observed that he talked to her not in the least in a patronizing way, reminding himself of her youth and simplicity, but quite as if she understood his subjects with that sufficiency with which she followed those of the fashionable operas. This went far enough for attention to the music and the barytone. He was careful only to be kind-he was as kind as he had been to another fluttered young chit at Gardencourt. A girl might well be touched by that; she remembered how she herself had been touched, and said to herself that if she had been as simple as Pansy the impression would have been deeper still. She had not been simple when she refused him; that operation had been as complicated as, later, her acceptance of Osmond had been. Pansy, however, in spite of her simplicity, really did understand, and was glad that Lord Warburton should talk to her, not about her partners and bouquets, but about the state of Italy, the condition of the peasantry, the famous grist-tax, the pellagra, his impressions of Roman society. She looked at him, as she drew her needle through her tapestry, with sweet submissive eyes, and when she lowered them she gave little quiet oblique glances at his person, his hands, his feet, his clothes, as if she were considering him. Even his person, Isabel might have reminded her, was better than Mr. Rosier’s. But Isabel contented herself at such moments with wondering where this gentleman was; he came no more at all to Palazzo Roccanera. It was surprising, as I say, the hold it had taken of her-the idea of assisting her husband to be pleased.
在读者看来，奥斯蒙德夫人突然变得异常愤世嫉俗，因为她最后对自己说，这个困难可能是可以安排的。可怜的罗齐尔身上所体现的障碍无论如何也不会表现为危险的障碍；总有办法消除次要障碍。伊莎贝尔非常清楚，她没有衡量潘西的顽强程度，这可能会证明她非常坚强。但她倾向于认为她是在建议下放手，而不是在反对下紧抓不放——因为她的同意能力肯定比抗议能力高得多。她会坚持，是的，她会坚持；但她坚持什么对她来说并不重要。沃伯顿勋爵会做得和罗齐尔先生一样好——尤其是因为她似乎很喜欢他。她毫无保留地向伊莎贝尔表达了这种情感。她说她认为他的谈话最有趣——他告诉了她关于印度的一切。他对潘西的态度是最正确和最轻松的——伊莎贝尔自己注意到了这一点，因为她也注意到他对她说话一点也不以居高临下的方式，提醒自己她年轻和简单，但似乎她理解她对他的主题的了解与她对流行歌剧的了解一样充分。这足以引起人们对音乐和男中音的关注。他小心翼翼地只表现得友善——他的友善就像他对待花园庭院里另一只兴奋的小鸡一样。一个女孩可能会被这个感动；她记得她自己是如何被感动的，并对自己说，如果她像潘西一样单纯，印象就会更深刻。 她拒绝他的时候并不简单。那次手术和后来她接受奥斯蒙德一样复杂。然而潘西，尽管她很简单，但确实理解，并且很高兴沃伯顿勋爵应该与她交谈，不是谈论她的伴侣和花束，而是谈论意大利的状况，农民的状况，著名的谷物税，糙皮病，他对罗马社会的印象。当她把针穿过挂毯时，她用甜美顺从的眼睛看着他，当她低下眼睛时，她静静地斜视着他的人，他的手，他的脚，他的衣服，仿佛她正在考虑他。伊莎贝尔可能会提醒她，甚至他的人也比罗齐尔先生的好。但伊莎贝尔在这种时刻满足于想知道这位绅士在哪里；他再也没有来过罗卡内拉宫。正如我所说，帮助她的丈夫感到高兴的想法对她的影响是令人惊讶的。

It was surprising for a variety of reasons which I shall presently touch upon. On the evening I speak of, while Lord Warburton sat there, she had been on the point of taking the great step of going out of the room and leaving her companions alone. I say the great step, because it was in this light that Gilbert Osmond would have regarded it, and Isabel was trying as much as possible to take her husband’s view. She succeeded after a fashion, but she fell short of the point I mention. After all she couldn’t rise to it; something held her and made this impossible. It was not exactly that it would be base or insidious; for women as a general thing practise such manoeuvres with a perfectly good conscience, and Isabel was instinctively much more true than false to the common genius of her sex. There was a vague doubt that interposed-a sense that she was not quite sure. So she remained in the drawing-room, and after a while Lord Warburton went off to his party, of which he promised to give Pansy a full account on the morrow. After he had gone she wondered if she had prevented something which would have happened if she had absented herself for a quarter of an hour; and then she pronounced-always mentally-that when their distinguished visitor should wish her to go away he would easily find means to let her know it. Pansy said nothing whatever about him after he had gone, and Isabel studiously said nothing, as she had taken a vow of reserve until after he should have declared himself. He was a little longer in coming to this than might seem to accord with the description he had given Isabel of his feelings. Pansy went to bed, and Isabel had to admit that she could not now guess what her stepdaughter was thinking of. Her transparent little companion was for the moment not to be seen through.
出于多种原因，这令人惊讶，我稍后将谈到。我所说的那个晚上，沃伯顿勋爵坐在那里时，她正准备迈出重要的一步，走出房间，留下她的同伴们。我之所以说这是伟大的一步，是因为吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德会从这个角度看待这件事，而伊莎贝尔则尽可能地采纳她丈夫的观点。她勉强成功了，但她没有达到我提到的这一点。毕竟她无法做到这一点；有什么东西抓住了她，让这一切变得不可能。这并不完全是因为它是卑鄙的或阴险的；而是因为它是卑鄙的或阴险的。对于女性来说，一般来说，她们都会怀着完全无愧的良心来进行这样的策略，而伊莎贝尔本能地对她这个性别的共同天才来说，是真实的，而不是虚假的。有一种模糊的怀疑介入其中——一种她不太确定的感觉。于是她留在了客厅里，过了一会儿沃伯顿勋爵就去参加他的聚会了，他答应明天向潘西汇报一次完整的情况。他走后，她想知道自己是否阻止了如果她缺席一刻钟就会发生的事情。然后她宣布——总是在心里——当他们尊贵的客人希望她离开时，他会很容易找到方法让她知道。他走后，潘西对他什么也没说，而伊莎贝尔也刻意什么也不说，因为她发誓要在他表态之前保持保留。他的这个想法似乎比他向伊莎贝尔描述的自己的感受要长一些。潘西上床睡觉，伊莎贝尔不得不承认她现在无法猜出继女在想什么。 她那透明的小伙伴暂时不能被看穿。

She remained alone, looking at the fire, until, at the end of half an hour, her husband came in. He moved about a while in silence and then sat down; he looked at the fire like herself. But she now had transferred her eyes from the flickering flame in the chimney to Osmond’s face, and she watched him while he kept his silence. Covert observation had become a habit with her; an instinct, of which it is not an exaggeration to say that it was allied to that of self-defence, had made it habitual. She wished as much as possible to know his thoughts, to know what he would say, beforehand, so that she might prepare her answer. Preparing answers had not been her strong point of old; she had rarely in this respect got further than thinking afterwards of clever things she might have said. But she had learned caution-learned it in a measure from her husband’s very countenance. It was the same face she had looked into with eyes equally earnest perhaps, but less penetrating, on the terrace of a Florentine villa; except that Osmond had grown slightly stouter since his marriage. He still, however, might strike one as very distinguished.
她独自一人，看着炉火，直到半个小时后，她的丈夫进来了。他沉默地走了一会儿，然后坐下来。他像她自己一样看着火。但她现在已经把目光从烟囱里闪烁的火焰转移到奥斯蒙德的脸上，她看着他，而他却保持沉默。暗中观察已成为她的一种习惯。毫不夸张地说，这种本能与自卫的本能有关，并且使这种本能成为习惯。她希望尽可能多地了解他的想法，事先知道他会说什么，这样她就可以准备好答案。准备答案并不是她以前的强项。在这方面，她很少会在事后思考自己可能说过的话。但她已经学会了谨慎——在一定程度上是从她丈夫的表情中学会的。在佛罗伦萨别墅的露台上，她曾用同样诚挚的目光注视过这张脸，但不那么具有洞察力。只是奥斯蒙德自从结婚后变得稍微胖了一些。然而，他仍然可能给人留下非常杰出的印象。

‘Has Lord Warburton been here?’ he presently asked.
“沃伯顿勋爵来过这里吗？”他随即问道。

‘Yes, he stayed half an hour.’
“是的，他呆了半个小时。”

‘Did he see Pansy?’
“他看到潘西了吗？”

‘Yes; he sat on the sofa beside her.’
'是的;他坐在她旁边的沙发上。

‘Did he talk with her much?’
“他和她谈得很多吗？”

‘He talked almost only to her.’
“他几乎只和她说话。”

‘It seems to me he’s attentive. Isn’t that what you call it?’
‘在我看来，他很专心。这不是你所说的吗？

‘I don’t call it anything,’ said Isabel; ‘I’ve waited for you to give it a name.’
“我不怎么称呼它，”伊莎贝尔说。 “我一直在等你给它起个名字。”

‘That’s a consideration you don’t always show,’ Osmond answered after a moment.
“你并不总是表现出这种考虑，”奥斯蒙德过了一会儿回答道。

‘I’ve determined, this time, to try and act as you’d like. I’ve so often failed of that.’
‘这一次，我决定尝试按照你的意愿行事。我经常失败。

Osmond turned his head slowly, looking at her. ‘Are you trying to quarrel with me?’
奥斯蒙德缓缓转过头，看着她。 “你想跟我吵架吗？”

‘No, I’m trying to live at peace.’
“不，我正在努力平静地生活。”

‘Nothing’s more easy; you know I don’t quarrel myself.’
“没有什么比这更容易的了；你知道我自己不吵架。

‘What do you call it when you try to make me angry?’ Isabel asked.
“当你试图让我生气时，你怎么称呼它？”伊莎贝尔问道。

‘I don’t try; if I’ve done so it has been the most natural thing in the world. Moreover I’m not in the least trying now.’
‘我不尝试；如果我这样做了，那就是世界上最自然的事情了。而且我现在根本没有尝试。

Isabel smiled. ‘It doesn’t matter. I’ve determined never to be angry again.’
伊莎贝尔笑了。 '没关系。我决定再也不生气了。”

‘That’s an excellent resolve. Your temper isn’t good.’
‘这是一个很好的决定。你的脾气不太好。

‘No-it’s not good.’ She pushed away the book she had been reading and took up the band of tapestry Pansy had left on the table.
“不——这不好。”她推开正在读的书，拿起潘西留在桌子上的挂毯带。

‘That’s partly why I’ve not spoken to you about this business of my daughter’s,’ Osmond said, designating Pansy in the manner that was most frequent with him. ‘I was afraid I should encounter opposition-that you too would have views on the subject. I’ve sent little Rosier about his business.’
“这就是为什么我没有和你谈论我女儿的这件事的部分原因，”奥斯蒙德说，用他最常用的方式指定潘西。 “我担心我会遇到反对意见——你也会对这个问题有看法。我已经派小罗齐尔去了解他的事了。

‘You were afraid I’d plead for Mr. Rosier? Haven’t you noticed that I’ve never spoken to you of him?’
“你担心我会为罗齐尔先生求情？”你没注意到我从来没有和你提起过他吗？

‘I’ve never given you a chance. We’ve so little conversation in these days. I know he was an old friend of yours.’
‘我从来没有给过你机会。这些天我们的谈话很少。我知道他是你的老朋友。

‘Yes; he’s an old friend of mine.’ Isabel cared little more for him than for the tapestry that she held in her hand; but it was true that he was an old friend and that with her husband she felt a desire not to extenuate such ties. He had a way of expressing contempt for them which fortified her loyalty to them, even when, as in the present case, they were in themselves insignificant. She sometimes felt a sort of passion of tenderness for memories which had no other merit than that they belonged to her unmarried life. ‘But as regards Pansy,’ she added in a moment, ‘I’ve given him no encouragement.’
'是的; “他是我的老朋友。”伊莎贝尔对他的关心并不比对她手里的挂毯更关心。但他确实是一位老朋友，而且她与丈夫之间的这种联系确实不希望被削弱。他有一种表达对他们的蔑视的方式，这增强了她对他们的忠诚，即使在本案中，他们本身微不足道。有时，她会对回忆产生一种温柔的热情，这些回忆除了属于她的未婚生活外，没有其他优点。 “但至于潘西，”她随即补充道，“我没有给他任何鼓励。”

‘That’s fortunate,’ Osmond observed.
“这很幸运，”奥斯蒙德评论道。

‘Fortunate for me, I suppose you mean. For him it matters little.’
“我想你是说我很幸运。”对他来说这并不重要。

‘There’s no use talking of him,’ Osmond said. ‘As I tell you, I’ve turned him out.’
“谈论他是没有用的，”奥斯蒙德说。 “正如我告诉你的，我已经把他赶走了。”

‘Yes; but a lover outside’s always a lover. He’s sometimes even more of one. Mr. Rosier still has hope.’
'是的;但外面的情人始终是情人。有时他甚至更像是一个人。罗齐尔先生仍然抱有希望。

‘He’s welcome to the comfort of it! My daughter has only to sit perfectly quiet to become Lady Warburton.’
‘欢迎他来享受这里的舒适！我的女儿只需完全安静地坐着，就能成为沃伯顿夫人。”

‘Should you like that?’ Isabel asked with a simplicity which was not so affected as it may appear. She was resolved to assume nothing, for Osmond had a way of unexpectedly turning her assumptions against her. The intensity with which he would like his daughter to become Lady Warburton had been the very basis of her own recent reflections. But that was for herself; she would recognize nothing until Osmond should have put it into words; she would not take for granted with him that he thought Lord Warburton a prize worth an amount of effort that was unusual among the Osmonds. It was Gilbert’s constant intimation that for him nothing in life was a prize; that he treated as from equal to equal with the most distinguished people in the world, and that his daughter had only to look about her to pick out a prince. It cost him therefore a lapse from consistency to say explicitly that he yearned for Lord Warburton and that if this nobleman should escape his equivalent might not be found; with which moreover it was another of his customary implications that he was never inconsistent. He would have liked his wife to glide over the point. But strangely enough, now that she was face to face with him and although an hour before she had almost invented a scheme for pleasing him, Isabel was not accommodating, would not glide. And yet she knew exactly the effect on his mind of her question: it would operate as an humiliation. Never mind; he was terribly capable of humiliating her-all the more so that he was also capable of waiting for great opportunities and of showing sometimes an almost unaccountable indifference to small ones. Isabel perhaps took a small opportunity because she would not have availed herself of a great one.
“你愿意吗？”伊莎贝尔问得很简单，但并没有看上去那么做作。她决心不做任何假设，因为奥斯蒙德有办法出人意料地让她的假设对她不利。他强烈希望他的女儿成为沃伯顿夫人，这正是她最近反思的基础。但那是为了她自己；除非奥斯蒙德用语言表达出来，否则她什么也认不出来。她不会理所当然地认为他认为沃伯顿勋爵是一个值得付出巨大努力的奖项，这在奥斯蒙德家族中是不寻常的。吉尔伯特不断地暗示，对他来说，生活中没有任何东西是奖品；他是一个人。他对待自己的态度与世界上最杰出的人是平等的，而他的女儿只需环顾四周就能挑选出一位王子。因此，他明确表示自己渴望沃伯顿勋爵，而如果这位贵族逃脱，他的同等地位可能就找不到了，这让他失去了一贯性。此外，他的另一个惯常含义是他从来不前后矛盾。他希望他的妻子能避开这一点。但奇怪的是，现在她面对面地面对着他，尽管一小时前她几乎想出了一个取悦他的方案，但伊莎贝尔却没有迁就，也不愿意滑落。然而她清楚地知道她的问题对他的思想产生的影响：这将成为一种耻辱。没关系;他非常有能力羞辱她——更重要的是，他也有能力等待伟大的机会，有时对小机会表现出几乎不可解释的冷漠。伊莎贝尔也许抓住了一个小机会，因为她不会利用一个大机会。

Osmond at present acquitted himself very honourably. ‘I should like it extremely; it would be a great marriage. And then Lord Warburton has another advantage: he’s an old friend of yours. It would be pleasant for him to come into the family. It’s very odd Pansy’s admirers should all be your old friends.’
奥斯蒙德现在非常光荣地无罪释放。 ‘我应该非常喜欢它；这将是一段美好的婚姻。沃伯顿勋爵还有另一个优势：他是你的老朋友。如果他能加入这个家庭，那将是一件令人高兴的事。很奇怪，潘西的崇拜者竟然都是你的老朋友。”

‘It’s natural that they should come to see me. In coming to see me they see Pansy. Seeing her it’s natural they should fall in love with her.’
‘他们来看我是很自然的事。他们来看我时看到的是潘西。看到她，他们自然会爱上她。”

‘So I think. But you’re not bound to do so.’
'所以我认为。但你没有义务这样做。

‘If she should marry Lord Warburton I should be very glad,’ Isabel went on frankly. ‘He’s an excellent man. You say, however, that she has only to sit perfectly still. Perhaps she won’t sit perfectly still. If she loses Mr. Rosier she may jump up!’
“如果她嫁给沃伯顿勋爵，我会非常高兴，”伊莎贝尔坦白地接着说道。 ‘他是一个优秀的人。然而，你说她只要一动不动地坐着就可以了。也许她不会坐以待毙。如果她失去罗齐尔先生，她可能会跳起来！

Osmond appeared to give no heed to this; he sat gazing at the fire.
奥斯蒙德似乎没有注意到这一点。他坐在那儿凝视着火。

‘Pansy would like to be a great lady,’ he remarked in a moment with a certain tenderness of tone. ‘She wishes above all to please,’ he added.
“潘西想成为一位伟大的女士，”他立刻用一种温柔的语气说道。 “她首先希望取悦别人，”他补充道。

‘To please Mr. Rosier, perhaps.’
“也许是为了取悦罗齐尔先生。”

‘No, to please me.’
“不，是为了取悦我。”

‘Me too a little, I think,’ said Isabel.
“我想我也有一点，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘Yes, she has a great opinion of you. But she’ll do what I like.’
“是的，她对你很有意见。但她会做我喜欢做的事。”

‘If you’re sure of that, it’s very well,’ she went on.
“如果你确定这一点，那就太好了，”她继续说道。

‘Meantime,’ said Osmond, ‘I should like our distinguished visitor to speak.’
“与此同时，”奥斯蒙德说，“我希望我们尊敬的客人发言。”

‘He has spoken-to me. He has told me it would be a great pleasure to him to believe she could care for him.’
‘他已经跟我说话了。他告诉我，如果他相信她能照顾他，他会感到非常高兴。

Osmond turned his head quickly, but at first he said nothing. Then, ‘Why didn’t you tell me that?’ he asked sharply.
奥斯蒙德迅速转过头，但一开始他什么也没说。然后，“你为什么不告诉我？”他尖锐地问道。

‘There was no opportunity. You know how we live. I’ve taken the first chance that has offered.’
‘没有机会。你知道我们如何生活。我已经抓住了第一个机会。

‘Did you speak to him of Rosier?’
“你跟他谈过罗齐尔吗？”

‘Oh yes, a little.’
“哦，是的，有一点。”

‘That was hardly necessary.’
“那几乎没有必要。”

‘I thought it best he should know, so that, so that-’ And Isabel paused.
“我认为他最好应该知道，所以，所以——”伊莎贝尔停了下来。

‘So that what?’
“那又怎样？”

‘So that he might act accordingly.’
“这样他就可以采取相应的行动。”

‘So that he might back out, do you mean?’
“你的意思是这样他就可以退出？”

‘No, so that he might advance while there’s yet time.’
“不，这样他就可以趁还有时间前进。”

‘That’s not the effect it seems to have had.’
“这并不是它看起来的效果。”

‘You should have patience,’ said Isabel. ‘You know Englishmen are shy.’
“你应该有耐心，”伊莎贝尔说。 “你知道英国人很害羞。”

‘This one’s not. He was not when he made love to you.’
‘这个不是。他和你做爱的时候不是这样的。”

She had been afraid Osmond would speak of that; it was disagreeable to her. ‘I beg your pardon; he was extremely so,’ she returned.
她一直担心奥斯蒙德会说起这件事。这让她很不舒服。 '请再说一遍; “他真是太厉害了。”她回答道。

He answered nothing for some time; he took up a book and fingered the pages while she sat silent and occupied herself with Pansy’s tapestry. ‘You must have a great deal of influence with him,’ Osmond went on at last. ‘The moment you really wish it you can bring him to the point.’
有一段时间他没有回答。他拿起一本书，用手指翻阅书页，而她则静静地坐着，专注于潘西的挂毯。 “你对他一定有很大的影响力，”奥斯蒙德最后继续说道。 “当你真正希望的那一刻，你就可以让他直言不讳。”

This was more offensive still; but she felt the great naturalness of his saying it, and it was after all extremely like what she had said to herself. ‘Why should I have influence?’ she asked. ‘What have I ever done to put him under an obligation to me?’
这更令人反感。但她觉得他说这话的时候非常自然，而且这毕竟和她对自己说的话极其相似。 “为什么我应该有影响力？”她问道。 “我做了什么让他对我负有义务？”

‘You refused to marry him,’ said Osmond with his eyes on his book.
“你拒绝嫁给他，”奥斯蒙德说，眼睛盯着他的书。

‘I must not presume too much on that,’ she replied.
“我不能对此假设太多，”她回答道。

He threw down the book presently and got up, standing before the fire with his hands behind him. ‘Well, I hold that it lies in your hands. I shall leave it there. With a little good-will you may manage it. Think that over and remember how much I count on you.’ He waited a little, to give her time to answer; but she answered nothing, and he presently strolled out of the room.
他立刻扔下书，站起身来，背着手站在火边。 “好吧，我认为它掌握在你的手中。我会把它留在那里。只要有一点善意，你就可以做到。好好想一想，记住我是多么依赖你。”他等了一会儿，给她时间回答。但她什么也没回答，他很快就走出了房间。

Chapter 42
第42章

She had answered nothing because his words had put the situation before her and she was absorbed in looking at it. There was something in them that suddenly made vibrations deep, so that she had been afraid to trust herself to speak. After he had gone she leaned back in her chair and closed her eyes; and for a long time, far into the night and still further, she sat in the still drawing-room, given up to her meditation. A servant came in to attend to the fire, and she bade him bring fresh candles and then go to bed. Osmond had told her to think of what he had said; and she did so indeed, and of many other things. The suggestion from another that she had a definite influence on Lord Warburton-this had given her the start that accompanies unexpected recognition. Was it true that there was something still between them that might be a handle to make him declare himself to Pansy-a susceptibility, on his part, to approval, a desire to do what would please her? Isabel had hitherto not asked herself the question, because she had not been forced; but now that it was directly presented to her she saw the answer, and the answer frightened her. Yes, there was something-something on Lord Warburton’s part. When he had first come to Rome she believed the link that united them to be completely snapped; but little by little she had been reminded that it had yet a palpable existence. It was as thin as a hair, but there were moments when she seemed to hear it vibrate. For herself nothing was changed; what she once thought of him she always thought; it was needless this feeling should change; it seemed to her in fact a better feeling than ever. But he? had he still the idea that she might be more to him than other women? Had he the wish to profit by the memory of the few moments of intimacy through which they had once passed? Isabel knew she had read some of the signs of such a disposition. But what were his hopes, his pretensions, and in what strange way were they mingled with his evidently very sincere appreciation of poor Pansy? Was he in love with Gilbert Osmond’s wife, and if so what comfort did he expect to derive from it? If he was in love with Pansy he was not in love with her stepmother, and if he was in love with her stepmother he was not in love with Pansy. Was she to cultivate the advantage she possessed in order to make him commit himself to Pansy, knowing he would do so for her sake and not for the small creature’s own-was this the service her husband had asked of her? This at any rate was the duty with which she found herself confronted-from the moment she admitted to herself that her old friend had still an uneradicated predilection for her society. It was not an agreeable task; it was in fact a repulsive one. She asked herself with dismay whether Lord Warburton were pretending to be in love with Pansy in order to cultivate another satisfaction and what might be called other chances. Of this refinement of duplicity she presently acquitted him; she preferred to believe him in perfect good faith. But if his admiration for Pansy were a delusion this was scarcely better than its being an affectation. Isabel wandered among these ugly possibilities until she had completely lost her way; some of them, as she suddenly encountered them, seemed ugly enough. Then she broke out of the labyrinth, rubbing her eyes, and declared that her imagination surely did her little honour and that her husband’s did him even less. Lord Warburton was as disinterested as he need be, and she was no more to him than she need wish. She would rest upon this till the contrary should be proved; proved more effectually than by a cynical intimation of Osmond’s.
她没有回答，因为他的话让她看到了眼前的情况，她全神贯注地看着它。他们身上有一种东西突然让她深深地震动，让她不敢相信自己能说话。他走后，她靠在椅子上，闭上了眼睛。她坐在寂静的客厅里沉思了很长一段时间，一直到深夜。一个仆人进来帮忙生火，她吩咐他带上新鲜的蜡烛，然后上床睡觉。奥斯蒙德告诉她要考虑一下他所说的话。她确实这样做了，而且还做了许多其他事情。另一个人暗示她对沃伯顿勋爵有一定的影响——这给了她一个伴随着意想不到的认可的开始。他们之间是否真的还有某种东西可以作为一个把手，让他向潘西表明自己的意愿——就他而言，他容易受到认可，渴望做让她高兴的事情？到目前为止，伊莎贝尔还没有问过自己这个问题，因为她没有被强迫。但现在直接呈现在她面前，她看到了答案，这个答案让她感到害怕。是的，沃伯顿勋爵确实有一些事情。当他第一次来到罗马时，她相信他们之间的联系已经完全破裂了。但渐渐地，她被提醒，它仍然是一个明显的存在。它像一根头发丝一样细，但有时她似乎能听到它的振动。对于她自己来说，一切都没有改变。她曾经对他的看法，她一直这么想；这种感觉没有必要改变；事实上，在她看来，这种感觉比以往任何时候都好。但是他？他是否仍然认为她对他来说可能比其他女人更重要？ 他是否希望从他们曾经经历过的短暂亲密时刻的记忆中获益？伊莎贝尔知道她已经看出了这种性格的一些迹象。但他的希望、他的自负是什么？它们又以怎样奇怪的方式与他对可怜的潘西显然非常真诚的欣赏混在一起呢？他是否爱吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德的妻子？如果是，他希望从中得到什么安慰？如果他爱Pansy，他就不会爱她的继母；如果他爱她的继母，他就不会爱Pansy。她是否要利用自己所拥有的优势，让他对潘西做出承诺，因为她知道他这样做是为了她，而不是为了这个小生物自己——这就是她丈夫要求她做的服务吗？无论如何，这就是她发现自己面临的责任——从她承认她的老朋友对她的社会仍然有一种未消除的偏爱那一刻起。这不是一项令人愉快的任务。事实上，这是一种令人厌恶的行为。她沮丧地问自己，沃伯顿勋爵是否假装爱上潘西，是为了培养另一种满足感和所谓的其他机会。她很快就宣告他的这种口是心非无罪。她更愿意完全真诚地相信他。但如果他对潘西的钦佩只是一种错觉，那也好不了只是一种矫揉造作。伊莎贝尔在这些丑陋的可能性中徘徊，直到她完全迷失了方向。其中一些，当她突然遇到时，看起来就够丑陋的了。然后她走出了迷宫，揉了揉眼睛，宣称她的想象力确实给她带来了一点荣誉，而她丈夫的想象力对他的帮助就更小了。 沃伯顿勋爵表现得很无私，而她对他来说也不过是她所希望的那样。她会以此为依据，直到相反的情况得到证明为止。事实证明，这比奥斯蒙德的愤世嫉俗的暗示更有效。

Such a resolution, however, brought her this evening but little peace, for her soul was haunted with terrors which crowded to the foreground of thought as quickly as a place was made for them. What had suddenly set them into livelier motion she hardly knew, unless it were the strange impression she had received in the afternoon of her husband’s being in more direct communication with Madame Merle than she suspected. That impression came back to her from time to time, and now she wondered it had never come before. Besides this, her short interview with Osmond half an hour ago was a striking example of his faculty for making everything wither that he touched, spoiling everything for her that he looked at. It was very well to undertake to give him a proof of loyalty; the real fact was that the knowledge of his expecting a thing raised a presumption against it. It was as if he had had the evil eye; as if his presence were a blight and his favour a misfortune. Was the fault in himself, or only in the deep mistrust she had conceived for him? This mistrust was now the clearest result of their short married life; a gulf had opened between them over which they looked at each other with eyes that were on either side a declaration of the deception suffered. It was a strange opposition, of the like of which she had never dreamed-an opposition in which the vital principle of the one was a thing of contempt to the other. It was not her fault-she had practised no deception; she had only admired and believed. She had taken all the first steps in the purest confidence, and then she had suddenly found the infinite vista of a multiplied life to be a dark, narrow alley with a dead wall at the end. Instead of leading to the high places of happiness, from which the world would seem to lie below one, so that one could look down with a sense of exaltation and advantage, and judge and choose and pity, it led rather downward and earthward, into realms of restriction and depression where the sound of other lives, easier and freer, was heard as from above, and where it served to deepen the feeling of failure. It was her deep distrust of her husband-this was what darkened the world. That is a sentiment easily indicated, but not so easily explained, and so composite in its character that much time and still more suffering had been needed to bring it to its actual perfection. Suffering, with Isabel, was an active condition; it was not a chill, a stupor, a despair; it was a passion of thought, of speculation, of response to every pressure. She flattered herself that she had kept her failing faith to herself, however-that no one suspected it but Osmond. Oh, he knew it, and there were times when she thought he enjoyed it. It had come gradually-it was not till the first year of their life together, so admirably intimate at first, had closed that she had taken the alarm. Then the shadows had begun to gather; it was as if Osmond deliberately, almost malignantly, had put the lights out one by one. The dusk at first was vague and thin, and she could still see her way in it. But it steadily deepened, and if now and again it had occasionally lifted there were certain corners of her prospect that were impenetrably black. These shadows were not an emanation from her own mind: she was very sure of that; she had done her best to be just and temperate, to see only the truth. They were a part, they were a kind of creation and consequence, of her husband’s very presence. They were not his misdeeds, his turpitudes; she accused him of nothing-that is but of one thing, which was not a crime. She knew of no wrong he had done; he was not violent, he was not cruel: she simply believed he hated her. That was all she accused him of, and the miserable part of it was precisely that it was not a crime, for against a crime she might have found redress. He had discovered that she was so different, that she was not what he had believed she would prove to be. He had thought at first he could change her, and she had done her best to be what he would like. But she was, after all, herself-she couldn’t help that; and now there was no use pretending, wearing a mask or a dress, for he knew her and had made up his mind. She was not afraid of him; she had no apprehension he would hurt her; for the ill-will he bore her was not of that sort. He would if possible never give her a pretext, never put himself in the wrong. Isabel, scanning the future with dry, fixed eyes, saw that he would have the better of her there. She would give him many pretexts, she would often put herself in the wrong. There were times when she almost pitied him; for if she had not deceived him in intention she understood how completely she must have done so in fact. She had effaced herself when he first knew her; she had made herself small, pretending there was less of her than there really was. It was because she had been under the extraordinary charm that he, on his side, had taken pains to put forth. He was not changed; he had not disguised himself, during the year of his courtship, any more than she. But she had seen only half his nature then, as one saw the disk of the moon when it was partly masked by the shadow of the earth. She saw the full moon now-she saw the whole man. She had kept still, as it were, so that he should have a free field, and yet in spite of this she had mistaken a part for the whole.
然而，这样的决心今晚并没有给她带来多少平静，因为她的灵魂被恐惧所困扰，这些恐惧一旦为它们找到了位置，就立刻涌入了思想的前台。她几乎不知道是什么突然让他们变得更加活跃，除非是下午她收到的奇怪印象，她的丈夫与梅尔夫人的交流比她想象的更加直接。这种印象时不时地出现在她的脑海里，现在她想知道以前从未有过这种感觉。除此之外，半小时前她对奥斯蒙德的简短采访是他能力的一个引人注目的例子，他让他接触到的一切都枯萎了，破坏了他看到的她的一切。向他提供忠诚证明是件好事。真正的事实是，当他知道自己期待某件事时，他就产生了反对它的假设。就好像他有一双邪恶的眼睛一样；仿佛他的存在是一种祸害，他的恩惠是一种不幸。是他自己的错，还是她对他深深的不信任？这种不信任现在是他们短暂婚姻生活最明显的结果。他们之间出现了一道鸿沟，他们互相看着对方，两边的眼睛都在宣告所受的欺骗。这是一种奇怪的对立，是她从未梦想过的——在这种对立中，一方的重要原则是对另一方的蔑视。这不是她的错——她没有欺骗；她没有欺骗自己。她只是钦佩和相信。她怀着最纯粹的信心迈出了所有的第一步，然后她突然发现，繁衍生命的无限远景是一条黑暗、狭窄的小巷，尽头是一堵死墙。 它不是通向幸福的高处，从那里世界似乎低于一个人，这样人们就可以怀着一种崇高和优势的感觉向下看，并进行判断、选择和怜悯，而是将其引向向下和世俗的地方，进入幸福的世界。在限制和压抑的领域里，其他生活的声音，更轻松、更自由，从上面听到，这加深了失败感。是她对丈夫深深的不信任——这才是让世界变得黑暗的原因。这是一种很容易表达的情感，但不那么容易解释，而且其性质如此复杂，需要大量的时间和更多的痛苦才能使其达到真正的完美。对于伊莎贝尔来说，痛苦是一种积极的状态。这不是一种寒冷、一种麻木、一种绝望；而是一种感觉。这是一种思考、推测、应对各种压力的热情。然而，她自以为自己一直对自己的失败抱有信心——除了奥斯蒙德之外，没有人怀疑这一点。哦，他知道这一点，有时她认为他很享受。它是逐渐到来的——直到他们在一起生活的第一年，一开始是如此亲密，直到结束，她才警觉起来。然后阴影开始聚集。就好像奥斯蒙德故意、几乎是恶意地把灯一盏一盏地灭了。暮色一开始是模糊而稀薄的，但她仍然能在其中看到自己的路。但它却在稳步加深，即使它偶尔会升起，她的前景中也有某些角落是无法穿透的黑色。这些阴影并非来自她自己的心灵：她对此非常确定；她已尽力保持公正和节制，只看到真相。它们是她丈夫存在的一部分，是她丈夫存在的一种创造和结果。 这些不是他的罪行、他的堕落；而是他的行为。她没有指控他任何罪名——只是指控他一件事，这不是犯罪。她不知道他做错了什么；他并不暴力，也不残忍：她只是相信他恨她。这就是她指控他的一切，而最悲惨的部分恰恰是这不是犯罪，因为对于犯罪，她可能会找到补救措施。他发现她是如此的不同，她并不是他所相信的那样。他一开始以为自己可以改变她，而她也已经尽力成为他想要的样子。但她毕竟是她自己——她无法控制这一点；她无法控制自己。现在假装、戴面具或穿裙子都没有用了，因为他认识她，而且已经下定决心了。她不怕他；她不怕他。她不担心他会伤害她；因为他对她的恶意并非如此。如果可能的话，他永远不会给她找借口，永远不会让自己陷入错误。伊莎贝尔用干巴巴的眼睛审视着未来，发现他会比她更好。她会给他很多借口，也常常让自己陷入错误的境地。有时她几乎可怜他。因为如果她没有故意欺骗他，她就完全明白自己实际上是这么做的。当他第一次认识她的时候，她就已经把自己抹去了。她把自己变得很小，假装自己比实际的要少。正是因为她受到了他这边煞费苦心地施展的非凡魅力。他没有改变；他没有改变。在求爱的那一年里，他和她一样没有伪装自己。但那时她只看到了他的一半本性，就像人们看到月亮的圆盘部分被地球的阴影遮盖一样。她现在看到了满月——她看到了整个男人。 她一直保持着不动，这样他就有了自由的空间，但尽管如此，她还是把一部分误认为是整体。

Ah, she had been immensely under the charm! It had not passed away; it was there still: she still knew perfectly what it was that made Osmond delightful when he chose to be. He had wished to be when he made love to her, and as she had wished to be charmed it was not wonderful he had succeeded. He had succeeded because he had been sincere; it never occurred to her now to deny him that. He admired her-he had told her why: because she was the most imaginative woman he had known. It might very well have been true; for during those months she had imagined a world of things that had no substance. She had had a more wondrous vision of him, fed through charmed senses and oh such a stirred fancy!-she had not read him right. A certain combination of features had touched her, and in them she had seen the most striking of figures. That he was poor and lonely and yet that somehow he was noble-that was what had interested her and seemed to give her opportunity. There had been an indefinable beauty about him-in his situation, in his mind, in his face. She had felt at the same time that he was helpless and ineffectual, but the feeling had taken the form of a tenderness which was the very flower of respect. He was like a sceptical voyager strolling on the beach while he waited for the tide, looking seaward yet not putting to sea. It was in all this she had found her occasion. She would launch his boat for him; she would be his providence; it would be a good thing to love him. And she had loved him, she had so anxiously and yet so ardently given herself-a good deal for what she found in him, but a good deal also for what she brought him and what might enrich the gift. As she looked back at the passion of those full weeks she perceived in it a kind of maternal strain-the happiness of a woman who felt that she was a contributor, that she came with charged hands. But for her money, as she saw to-day, she would never have done it. And then her mind wandered off to poor Mr. Touchett, sleeping under English turf, the beneficent author of infinite woe! For this was the fantastic fact. At bottom her money had been a burden, had been on her mind, which was filled with the desire to transfer the weight of it to some other conscience, to some more prepared receptacle. What would lighten her own conscience more effectually than to make it over to the man with the best taste in the world? Unless she should have given it to a hospital there would have been nothing better she could do with it; and there was no charitable institution in which she had been as much interested as in Gilbert Osmond. He would use her fortune in a way that would make her think better of it and rub off a certain grossness attaching to the good luck of an unexpected inheritance. There had been nothing very delicate in inheriting seventy thousand pounds; the delicacy had been all in Mr. Touchett’s leaving them to her. But to marry Gilbert Osmond and bring him such a portion-in that there would be delicacy for her as well. There would be less for him-that was true; but that was his affair, and if he loved her he wouldn’t object to her being rich. Had he not had the courage to say he was glad she was rich?
啊，她简直被迷住了！它并没有消失；它还没有消失。它仍然在那里：她仍然清楚地知道是什么让奥斯蒙德在选择时感到高兴。当他与她做爱时，他希望如此，而正如她希望被迷住一样，他成功了并不奇怪。他之所以成功，是因为他真诚；他之所以成功，是因为他真诚。她现在从来没有想过要否认他。他钦佩她——他已经告诉了她原因：因为她是他认识的最有想象力的女人。这很可能是真的。因为在那几个月里，她想象了一个没有实质内容的世界。她对他有了更奇妙的看法，在迷人的感官的滋养下，噢，这是多么令人激动的幻想！——她没有正确地解读他。某种特征的组合触动了她，她在其中看到了最引人注目的人物。他贫穷而孤独，但不知何故他是高贵的——这正是她感兴趣的原因，似乎给了她机会。他身上有一种难以形容的美——在他的处境中，在他的思想中，在他的脸上。她同时感觉到他是无助和无能的，但这种感觉表现为一种温柔，这正是尊重的花朵。他就像一个怀疑的航海者，在海滩上漫步等待潮水，看着大海，却没有出海。正是在这一切中，她找到了自己的机会。她会为他开动他的船；她将是他的天意；爱他将是一件好事。她爱过他，她如此焦急却又如此热情地奉献了自己——她在他身上发现了很多东西，但也因为她带给他的东西以及可能丰富这份礼物的东西而付出了很多。 当她回顾那整整几周的激情时，她在其中感受到了一种母性的压力——一个女人感到自己是一个贡献者，她带着充满活力的双手而来的幸福。如果不是为了她的钱，正如她今天所看到的，她永远不会这么做。然后她的思绪又飘到了睡在英国地皮下的可怜的图切特先生身上，他是无限祸患的仁慈作者！因为这是一个奇妙的事实。归根结底，她的钱一直是一种负担，一直压在她的脑海里，她渴望将钱的重量转移到另一个良心上，转移到某个更准备好的容器上。还有什么比把良心交给世界上最有品位的男人更能减轻她的良心呢？除非她把它交给医院，否则她就没有什么更好的办法了；没有哪个慈善机构比吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德更让她感兴趣。他会以一种让她更好地思考的方式使用她的财产，并消除意外继承的好运所带来的某种粗俗感。继承七万英镑并没有什么微妙之处；塔切特先生把这些美味全都留给了她。但嫁给吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德并给他带来这样的一份——对她来说也将是美味佳肴。对他来说，他的生活会更少——这是事实；但这是他的事，如果他爱她，他就不会反对她富有。难道他没有勇气说他很高兴她有钱吗？

Isabel’s cheek burned when she asked herself if she had really married on a factitious theory, in order to do something finely appreciable with her money. But she was able to answer quickly enough that this was only half the story. It was because a certain ardour took possession of her-a sense of the earnestness of his affection and a delight in his personal qualities. He was better than any one else. This supreme conviction had filled her life for months, and enough of it still remained to prove to her that she could not have done otherwise. The finest-in the sense of being the subtlest-manly organism she had ever known had become her property, and the recognition of her having but to put out her hands and take it had been originally a sort of act of devotion. She had not been mistaken about the beauty of his mind; she knew that organ perfectly now. She had lived with it, she had lived in it almost-it appeared to have become her habitation. If she had been captured it had taken a firm hand to seize her; that reflection perhaps had some worth. A mind more ingenious, more pliant, more cultivated, more trained to admirable exercises, she had not encountered; and it was this exquisite instrument she had now to reckon with. She lost herself in infinite dismay when she thought of the magnitude of his deception. It was a wonder, perhaps, in view of this, that he didn’t hate her more. She remembered perfectly the first sign he had given of it-it had been like the bell that was to ring up the curtain upon the real drama of their life. He said to her one day that she had too many ideas and that she must get rid of them. He had told her that already, before their marriage; but then she had not noticed it: it had come back to her only afterwards. This time she might well have noticed it, because he had really meant it. The words had been nothing superficially; but when in the light of deepening experience she had looked into them they had then appeared portentous. He had really meant it-he would have liked her to have nothing of her own but her pretty appearance. She had known she had too many ideas; she had more even than he had supposed, many more than she had expressed to him when he had asked her to marry him. Yes, she had been hypocritical; she had liked him so much; She had too many ideas for herself; but that was just what one married for, to share them with some one else. One couldn’t pluck them up by the roots, though of course one might suppress them, be careful not to utter them. It had not been this, however, his objecting to her opinions; this had been nothing. She had no opinions-none that she would not have been eager to sacrifice in the satisfaction of feeling herself loved for it. What he had meant had been the whole thing-her character, the way she felt, the way she judged. This was what she had kept in reserve; this was what he had not known until he had found himself-with the door closed behind, as it were-set down face to face with it. She had a certain way of looking at life which he took as a personal offence. Heaven knew that now at least it was a very humble, accommodating way! The strange thing was that she should not have suspected from the first that his own had been so different. She had thought it so large, so enlightened, so perfectly that of an honest man and a gentleman. Hadn’t he assured her that he had no superstitions, no dull limitations, no prejudices that had lost their freshness? Hadn’t he all the appearance of a man living in the open air of the world, indifferent to small considerations, caring only for truth and knowledge and believing that two intelligent people ought to look for them together and, whether they found them or not, find at least some happiness in the search? He had told her he loved the conventional; but there was a sense in which this seemed a noble declaration. In that sense, that of the love of harmony and order and decency and of all the stately offices of life, she went with him freely, and his warning had contained nothing ominous. But when, as the months had elapsed, she had followed him further and he had led her into the mansion of his own habitation, then, then she had seen where she really was.
当伊莎贝尔问自己，她是否真的是根据人为的理论结婚，以便用她的钱做一些非常值得欣赏的事情时，她的脸颊发烫。但她能够很快回答，这只是故事的一半。这是因为某种热情占据了她——感受到他的真挚感情和对他个人品质的喜悦。他比任何人都优秀。这种至高无上的信念已经充斥了她几个月的生活，而且仍然有足够的信念向她证明她不能不这样做。最好的——从某种意义上说，她所知道的最微妙的男子气概的有机体已经成为她的财产，而认识到她只需伸出双手就可以得到它，这本来就是一种奉献的行为。她对他心灵之美的判断并没有错。她现在对那个器官了如指掌。她已经和它一起生活了，她几乎已经生活在里面了——它似乎已经成为了她的住所。如果她被俘虏了，那么也必须有一只强有力的手才能抓住她；这种反思也许有一定的价值。她从未遇到过比她更聪明、更顺从、更有教养、更受过令人钦佩的训练的头脑。她现在要考虑的正是这件精致的乐器。当她想到他欺骗的程度时，她陷入了无限的沮丧。考虑到这一点，他没有更恨她，这也许是一个奇迹。她清楚地记得他发出的第一个信号——这就像敲响了他们生活中真正戏剧的帷幕的钟声。有一天，他对她说，她的想法太多了，必须摆脱它们。在他们结婚之前，他就已经告诉过她了；但后来她没有注意到它：直到后来她才想起它。 这次她很可能注意到了，因为他是真心的。这些话并不是表面上的。但当她根据不断加深的经验来审视它们时，它们就显得不祥了。他是真心实意的——他希望她除了漂亮的外表之外什么都没有。她知道自己的想法太多了；她的想法太多了。她所拥有的比他想象的还要多，比他向她求婚时她向他表达的要多得多。是的，她很虚伪；但她确实很虚伪。她非常喜欢他；她自己的想法太多了；但这正是人们结婚的目的，与别人分享它们。不能连根拔起，当然也可以压制，注意不要说出来。然而，他反对她的意见并非如此。这本来不算什么。她没有任何意见——没有一个意见表明她不会渴望做出牺牲，以换取自己被爱的满足感。他的意思是整件事——她的性格，她的感受方式，她的判断方式。这是她一直保留的东西；直到他发现自己面对面地把门关着时，他才知道这一点。她对生活有一种独特的看法，他认为这是对她个人的冒犯。天知道，至少现在这是一种非常谦卑、包容的方式！奇怪的是，她从一开始就不应该怀疑他自己的情况如此不同。她以为它是如此伟大，如此开明，如此完美，就像一个诚实的人和绅士一样。他不是向她保证他没有迷信，没有迟钝的限制，没有失去新鲜感的偏见吗？ 他难道不是像一个生活在露天世界的人，对小事漠不关心，只关心真理和知识，并相信两个聪明人应该一起寻找它们，无论他们是否找到它们，在寻找中至少找到一些快乐？他告诉她他喜欢传统。但从某种意义上说，这似乎是一个崇高的宣言。从这个意义上说，出于对和谐、秩序和正派的热爱，以及对生活中所有庄严职务的热爱，她自由地与他同行，他的警告并没有包含任何不祥的成分。但几个月过去了，当她跟着他走得更远，他带她走进他自己住的宅邸时，她才看清了自己真正所在的地方。

She could live it over again, the incredulous terror with which she had taken the measure of her dwelling. Between those four walls she had lived ever since; they were to surround her for the rest of her life. It was the house of darkness, the house of dumbness, the house of suffocation. Osmond’s beautiful mind gave it neither light nor air; Osmond’s beautiful mind indeed seemed to peep down from a small high window and mock at her. Of course it had not been physical suffering; for physical suffering there might have been a remedy. She could come and go; she had her liberty; her husband was perfectly polite. He took himself so seriously; it was something appalling. Under all his culture, his cleverness, his amenity, under his good-nature, his facility, his knowledge of life, his egotism lay hidden like a serpent in a bank of flowers. She had taken him seriously, but she had not taken him so seriously as that. How could she-especially when she had known him better? She was to think of him as he thought of himself as the first gentleman in Europe. So it was that she had thought of him at first, and that indeed was the reason she had married him. But when she began to see what it implied she drew back; there was more in the bond than she had meant to put her name to. It implied a sovereign contempt for every one but some three or four very exalted people whom he envied, and for everything in the world but half a dozen ideas of his own. That was very well; she would have gone with him even there a long distance; for he pointed out to her so much of the baseness and shabbiness of life, opened her eyes so wide to the stupidity, the depravity, the ignorance of mankind, that she had been properly impressed with the infinite vulgarity of things and of the virtue of keeping one’s self unspotted by it. But this base, ignoble world, it appeared, was after all what one was to live for; one was to keep it for ever in one’s eye, in order not to enlighten or convert or redeem it, but to extract from it some recognition of one’s own superiority. On the one hand it was despicable, but on the other it afforded a standard. Osmond had talked to Isabel about his renunciation, his indifference, the ease with which he dispensed with the usual aids to success; and all this had seemed to her admirable. She had thought it a grand indifference, an exquisite independence. But indifference was really the last of his qualities; she had never seen any one who thought so much of others. For herself, avowedly, the world had always interested her and the study of her fellow creatures been her constant passion. She would have been willing, however, to renounce all her curiosities and sympathies for the sake of a personal life, if the person concerned had only been able to make her believe it was a gain! This at least was her present conviction; and the thing certainly would have been easier than to care for society as Osmond cared for it.
她可以再经历一次，她带着难以置信的恐惧来测量自己的住所。从那以后她就一直生活在这四堵墙之间。他们将在她的余生中围绕着她。这是黑暗之屋、沉默之屋、窒息之屋。奥斯蒙德美丽的心灵既没有给予它光明，也没有给予它空气；奥斯蒙德美丽的心灵确实像是从一扇高高的小窗户里窥视并嘲笑她。当然，这不是身体上的痛苦；而是身体上的痛苦。对于身体上的痛苦也许有一种补救办法。她可以来来去去；她有她的自由；她的丈夫非常有礼貌。他把自己看得如此认真；这是一件令人震惊的事情。在他的文化底蕴、他的聪明才智、他的随和、他的善良、他的机智、他的生活知识之下，他的自我中心像一条蛇隐藏在花丛中。她曾经认真地对待过他，但并没有那么认真地对待过他。她怎么能——尤其是当她更了解他的时候？她应该像他认为自己是欧洲第一位绅士一样看待他。所以说，她一开始就想到了他，这也确实是她嫁给他的原因。但当她开始明白这意味着什么时，她退缩了。这段关系中的内容比她本意要写的还要多。这意味着对除了他所羡慕的三四个非常尊贵的人之外的所有人，以及对世界上的一切事物的至高无上的蔑视，除了他自己的六个想法。 那很好；即使去很远的地方，她也会和他一起走。因为他向她指出了生活中如此多的卑鄙和卑鄙，让她睁大了眼睛，看到了人类的愚蠢、堕落和无知，以至于她对事物的无限粗俗和人类的美德印象深刻。保持自己不被它玷污。但看来，这个卑鄙、不光彩的世界毕竟是人们赖以生存的目标。人们应该永远把它放在自己的眼前，不是为了启发、改变或救赎它，而是为了从中获得对自己优越性的某种认识。一方面它是卑鄙的，但另一方面它提供了一个标准。奥斯蒙德曾与伊莎贝尔谈论过他的放弃、他的冷漠以及他轻松地放弃通常的成功辅助手段；这一切对她来说都是令人钦佩的。她原以为这是一种伟大的冷漠，一种绝妙的独立。但冷漠实际上是他的最后一个品质。她从来没有见过一个人能这么为别人着想。对于她自己来说，显然，她一直对这个世界感兴趣，而对她的同类的研究是她始终如一的热情。然而，如果当事人能让她相信这是一种收获，她愿意为了个人生活而放弃所有的好奇心和同情心！至少这是她目前的信念。这件事肯定比像奥斯蒙德那样关心社会要容易得多。

He was unable to live without it, and she saw that he had never really done so; he had looked at it out of his window even when he appeared to be most detached from it. He had his ideal, just as she had tried to have hers; only it was strange that people should seek for justice in such different quarters. His ideal was a conception of high prosperity and propriety, of the aristocratic life, which she now saw that he deemed himself always, in essence at least, to have led. He had never lapsed from it for an hour; he would never have recovered from the shame of doing so. That again was very well; here too she would have agreed; but they attached such different ideas, such different associations and desires, to the same formulas. Her notion of the aristocratic life was simply the union of great knowledge with great liberty; the knowledge would give one a sense of duty and the liberty a sense of enjoyment. But for Osmond it was altogether a thing of forms, a conscious, calculated attitude. He was fond of the old, the consecrated, the transmitted; so was she, but she pretended to do what she chose with it. He had an immense esteem for tradition; he had told her once that the best thing in the world was to have it, but that if one was so unfortunate as not to have it one must immediately proceed to make it. She knew that he meant by this that she hadn’t it, but that he was better off; though from what source he had derived his traditions she never learned. He had a very large collection of them, however; that was very certain, and after a little she began to see. The great thing was to act in accordance with them; the great thing not only for him but for her. Isabel had an undefined conviction that to serve for another person than their proprietor traditions must be of a thoroughly superior kind; but she nevertheless assented to this intimation that she too must march to the stately music that floated down from unknown periods in her husband’s past; she who of old had been so free of step, so desultory, so devious, so much the reverse of processional. There were certain things they must do, a certain posture they must take, certain people they must know and not know. When she saw this rigid system close about her, draped though it was in pictured tapestries, that sense of darkness and suffocation of which I have spoken took possession of her; she seemed shut up with an odour of mould and decay. She had resisted of course; at first very humorously, ironically, tenderly; then, as the situation grew more serious, eagerly, passionately, pleadingly. She had pleaded the cause of freedom, of doing as they chose, of not caring for the aspect and denomination of their life-the cause of other instincts and longings, of quite another ideal.
没有它他就无法生存，而她看到他从来没有真正这样做过；即使在他看起来与它最疏远的时候，他也曾从窗外望过它。他有他的理想，正如她也曾试图拥有她的理想一样。只是奇怪的是，人们竟然在如此不同的方面寻求正义。他的理想是高度繁荣和得体的贵族生活，她现在看到，至少在本质上，他认为自己一直在过着这样的生活。他从来没有停止过一个小时。他永远无法从这样做的耻辱中恢复过来。这又是非常好的事情。在这里她也会同意的。但他们却将如此不同的想法、如此不同的联想和愿望附加到同一个公式上。她对贵族生活的理解就是伟大的知识与伟大的自由的结合。知识给人一种责任感，自由给人一种享受感。但对奥斯蒙德来说，这完全是一种形式，一种有意识的、经过深思熟虑的态度。他喜欢古老的、神圣的、传承的东西。她也是，但她假装用它做她选择的事情。他非常尊重传统。他曾经告诉她，世界上最好的事情就是拥有它，但如果一个人不幸没有拥有它，就必须立即着手去创造它。她知道他的意思是她没有，但他的情况更好；尽管她不知道他的传统从何而来。然而，他收藏了大量这些作品。这是非常确定的，过了一会儿她就开始明白了。最重要的是按照它们行事。这不仅对他而且对她来说都是一件伟大的事情。 伊莎贝尔有一个不明确的信念，即为另一个人服务，而不是为他们的所有者传统服务，必须是一种完全优越的服务。但她还是同意了这一暗示，即她也必须踏着从她丈夫过去的未知时期飘来的庄严音乐前进。过去的她是那么自由自在，那么杂乱无章，那么迂回曲折，与游行队伍完全相反。他们必须做某些事情，采取某种姿势，必须认识或不认识某些人。当她看到这个僵硬的系统就在她身边，虽然它被挂在挂毯上，但我所说的黑暗和窒息的感觉占据了她；她似乎被困在了一股发霉和腐烂的气味中。她当然反抗了；但她还是拒绝了。起初非常幽默、讽刺、温柔；然后，随着情况变得更加严重，人们热切地、热情地、恳求地。她为自由辩护，为自己选择的事情做事，不关心自己生活的方面和教派——这是其他本能和渴望的原因，是完全不同的理想的原因。

Then it was that her husband’s personality, touched as it never had been, stepped forth and stood erect. The things she had said were answered only by his scorn, and she could see he was ineffably ashamed of her-did he think of her-that she was base, vulgar, ignoble? He at least knew now that she had no traditions! It had not been in his prevision of things that she should reveal such flatness; her sentiments were worthy of a radical newspaper or a Unitarian preacher. The real offence, as she ultimately perceived, was her having a mind of her own at all. Her mind was to be his-attached to his own like a small garden-plot to a deer-park. He would rake the soil gently and water the flowers; he would weed the beds and gather an occasional nosegay. It would be a pretty piece of property for a proprietor already far-reaching. He didn’t wish her to be stupid. On the contrary, it was because she was clever that she had pleased him. But he expected her intelligence to operate altogether in his favour, and so far from desiring her mind to be a blank he had flattered himself that it would be richly receptive. He had expected his wife to feel with him and for him, to enter into his opinions, his ambitions, his preferences; and Isabel was obliged to confess that this was no great insolence on the part of a man so accomplished and a husband originally at least so tender. But there were certain things she could never take in. To begin with, they were hideously unclean. She was not a daughter of the Puritans, but for all that she believed in such a thing as chastity and even as decency. It would appear that Osmond was far from doing anything of the sort; some of his traditions made her push back her skirts. Did all women have lovers? Did they all lie and even the best have their price? Were there only three or four that didn’t deceive their husbands? When Isabel heard such things she felt a greater scorn for them than for the gossip of a village parlour-a scorn that kept its freshness in a very tainted air. There was the taint of her sister-in-law: did her husband judge only by the Countess Gemini? This lady very often lied, and she had practised deceptions that were not simply verbal. It was enough to find these facts assumed among Osmond’s traditions-it was enough without giving them such a general extension. It was her scorn of his assumptions, it was this that made him draw himself up. He had plenty of contempt, and it was proper his wife should be as well furnished; but that she should turn the hot light of her disdain upon his own conception of things-this was a danger he had not allowed for. He believed he should have regulated her emotions before she came to it; and Isabel could easily imagine how his ears had scorched on his discovering he had been too confident. When one had a wife who gave one that sensation there was nothing left but to hate her.
然后就是她丈夫的人格，前所未有的感动，站了起来。她所说的话只得到他的蔑视，她看得出他对她感到难以言表的羞耻——他有没有想过她——她卑鄙、粗俗、不光彩？他现在至少知道，她没有传统！他没想到她会表现得如此平淡。她的观点堪比激进报纸或一神论传教士。正如她最终意识到的那样，真正的罪行是她完全有自己的想法。她的心思是依附于他自己的，就像小花园依附于鹿园一样。他会轻轻地耙土，给花浇水。他会给花坛除草，偶尔收集一些花束。对于一个影响深远的业主来说，这将是一笔漂亮的财产。他不希望她变得愚蠢。相反，正是因为她聪明，才让他高兴。但他希望她的智慧完全对他有利，而且他根本不希望她的头脑一片空白，他自以为她的头脑会非常善于接受。他原以为妻子能与他同感、为他着想，了解他的观点、他的抱负、他的喜好；但他的想法却是这样的。伊莎贝尔不得不承认，对于一个如此有成就的男人和一个原本至少如此温柔的丈夫来说，这并不是很大的无礼。但有些东西她永远无法接受。首先，它们极其不洁。她不是清教徒的女儿，但尽管如此，她仍然相信贞洁甚至正派之类的东西。奥斯蒙德似乎远没有做类似的事情。他的一些传统让她把裙子往后推。所有女人都有情人吗？难道他们都撒谎了，即使是最好的也有价格吗？ 不欺骗自己丈夫的只有三四个吗？当伊莎贝尔听到这些事情时，她对他们的蔑视比对乡村客厅里的八卦还要大——这种蔑视在非常肮脏的空气中保持着新鲜感。有她嫂子的污点：她的丈夫只以双子伯爵夫人来评判吗？这位女士经常撒谎，而且她所实施的欺骗不仅仅是口头上的。在奥斯蒙德的传统中找到这些假设的事实就足够了——无需给予它们如此普遍的扩展就足够了。正是她对他的假设的蔑视，正是这一点让他把自己摆在了面前。他有足够的蔑视，他的妻子也应该有很好的装备。但她居然把她的蔑视的强烈目光转向了他自己对事物的看法——这是他没有允许的危险。他相信自己应该在她意识到这一点之前就调节好她的情绪。伊莎贝尔很容易想象，当他发现自己过于自信时，他的耳朵是多么焦灼。当一个人拥有一个能给人这种感觉的妻子时，除了恨她之外别无他法。

She was morally certain now that this feeling of hatred, which at first had been a refuge and a refreshment, had become the occupation and comfort of his life. The feeling was deep, because it was sincere; he had had the revelation that she could after all dispense with him. If to herself the idea was startling, if it presented itself at first as a kind of infidelity, a capacity for pollution, what infinite effect might it not be expected to have had upon him? It was very simple; he despised her; she had no traditions and the moral horizon of a Unitarian minister. Poor Isabel, who had never been able to understand Unitarianism! This was the certitude she had been living with now for a time that she had ceased to measure. What was coming-what was before them? That was her constant question. What would he do-what ought she to do? When a man hated his wife what did it lead to? She didn’t hate him, that she was sure of, for every little while she felt a passionate wish to give him a pleasant surprise. Very often, however, she felt afraid, and it used to come over her, as I have intimated, that she had deceived him at the very first. They were strangely married, at all events, and it was a horrible life. Until that morning he had scarcely spoken to her for a week; his manner was as dry as a burned-out fire. She knew there was a special reason; he was displeased at Ralph Touchett’s staying on in Rome. He thought she saw too much of her cousin-he had told her a week before it was indecent she should go to him at his hotel. He would have said more than this if Ralph’s invalid state had not appeared to make it brutal to denounce him; but having had to contain himself had only deepened his disgust. Isabel read all this as she would have read the hour on the clock-face; she was as perfectly aware that the sight of her interest in her cousin stirred her husband’s rage as if Osmond had locked her into her room-which she was sure was what he wanted to do. It was her honest belief that on the whole she was not defiant, but she certainly couldn’t pretend to be indifferent to Ralph. She believed he was dying at last and that she should never see him again, and this gave her a tenderness for him that she had never known before. Nothing was a pleasure to her now; how could anything be a pleasure to a woman who knew that she had thrown away her life? There was an everlasting weight on her heart-there was a livid light on everything. But Ralph’s little visit was a lamp in the darkness; for the hour that she sat with him her ache for herself became somehow her ache for him. She felt to-day as if he had been her brother. She had never had a brother, but if she had and she were in trouble and he were dying, he would be dear to her as Ralph was. Ah yes, if Gilbert was jealous of her there was perhaps some reason; it didn’t make Gilbert look better to sit for half an hour with Ralph. It was not that they talked of him-it was not that she complained. His name was never uttered between them. It was simply that Ralph was generous and that her husband was not. There was something in Ralph’s talk, in his smile, in the mere fact of his being in Rome, that made the blasted circle round which she walked more spacious. He made her feel the’ good of the world; he made her feel what might have been. He was after all as intelligent as Osmond-quite apart from his being better. And thus it seemed to her an act of devotion to conceal her misery from him. She concealed it elaborately; she was perpetually, in their talk, hanging out curtains and arranging screens. It lived before her again-it had never had time to die-that morning in the garden at Florence when he had warned her against Osmond. She had only to close her eyes to see the place, to hear his voice, to feel the warm, sweet air. How could he have known? What a mystery, what a wonder of wisdom! As intelligent as Gilbert? He was much more intelligent-to arrive at such a judgement as that. Gilbert had never been so deep, so just. She had told him then that from her at least he should never know if he was right; and this was what she was taking care had now. It gave her plenty to do; there was passion, exaltation, religion in it. Women find their religion sometimes in strange exercises, and Isabel at present, in playing a part before her cousin, had an idea that she was doing him a kindness. It would have been a kindness perhaps if he had been for a single instant a dupe. As it was, the kindness consisted mainly in trying to make him believe that he had once wounded her greatly and that the event had put him to shame, but that, as she was very generous and he was so ill, she bore him no grudge and even considerately forbore to flaunt her happiness in his face. Ralph smiled to himself, as he lay on his sofa, at this extraordinary form of consideration; but he forgave her for having forgiven him. She didn’t wish him to have the pain of knowing she was unhappy: that was the great thing, and it didn’t matter that such knowledge would rather have righted him.
她现在在道义上确信，这种最初是避难所和提神作用的仇恨情绪，现在已经成为他生活的职业和安慰。感情深，因为真诚；他得到的启示是，她终究可以抛弃他。如果她自己觉得这个想法令人震惊，如果它一开始就表现为一种不忠，一种污染能力，那么它会对他产生什么无限的影响呢？事情很简单；他鄙视她；她没有一位神论牧师的传统和道德视野。可怜的伊莎贝尔，她从来都无法理解一神论！这是她现在已经不再衡量的一段时间以来一直生活在的确信。即将发生什么——他们面前是什么？这是她不断提出的问题。他会做什么——她应该做什么？当一个男人讨厌他的妻子时，会导致什么？她确信，她并不恨他，因为每时每刻，她都热切地希望给他一个惊喜。然而，她常常感到害怕，正如我已经暗示的那样，她常常感到自己一开始就欺骗了他。无论如何，他们的婚姻很奇怪，而且生活很糟糕。直到那天早上，他已经有一个星期没有和她说过话了。他的态度冷漠得像已燃尽的火。她知道这是有特殊原因的；他对拉尔夫·图切特留在罗马感到不满。他认为她见她表弟的次数太多了——一周前他就告诉过她，她应该去他的旅馆找他，这是不礼貌的。如果不是拉尔夫的病态使谴责他变得残酷的话，他可能会说得更多。但不得不克制自己只会加深他的厌恶。 伊莎贝尔读这一切就像她读钟面上的时间一样。她清楚地意识到，她对表弟的兴趣激起了她丈夫的愤怒，就好像奥斯蒙德把她锁在自己的房间里一样——她确信这就是他想做的事。她诚实地相信，总的来说，她并没有目中无人，但她当然不能假装对拉尔夫漠不关心。她相信他终于要死了，她再也见不到他了，这让她对他产生了一种以前从未有过的温柔。现在，没有什么能让她高兴了。对于一个知道自己已经放弃了自己生命的女人来说，还有什么是快乐的呢？她的心有一种永恒的沉重——一切都闪烁着青色的光芒。但拉尔夫的短暂拜访却是黑暗中的一盏明灯。在她和他坐在一起的那一刻，她对自己的痛苦不知何故变成了对他的痛苦。今天她感觉他就像她的兄弟一样。她从来没有过兄弟，但如果她有，而且她遇到了麻烦，他也快要死了，他会像拉尔夫一样对她很亲爱。啊，是的，如果吉尔伯特嫉妒她，也许是有原因的；与拉尔夫坐在一起半小时并没有让吉尔伯特看起来更好。并不是他们在谈论他——也不是她在抱怨。他们之间从未提及过他的名字。只是拉尔夫很慷慨，而她的丈夫则不然。拉尔夫的谈话、他的微笑、以及他身在罗马这一事实，都使她绕着该死的圈子变得更加宽敞。他让她感受到了世界的美好；他让她感受到了可能发生的事情。毕竟，他和奥斯蒙德一样聪明——只是他比奥斯蒙德更优秀而已。因此，在她看来，向他隐瞒自己的痛苦是一种奉献的行为。 她精心地掩饰了这一点；在他们的谈话中，她总是在挂窗帘、布置屏风。那天早上，在佛罗伦萨的花园里，当他警告她提防奥斯蒙德时，它再次出现在她面前——它从未来得及死去。她只需闭上眼睛就能看到这个地方，听到他的声音，感受到温暖、甜美的空气。他怎么知道？这是何等的奥秘，何等的智慧奇迹！和吉尔伯特一样聪明吗？他要聪明得多，才能做出这样的判断。吉尔伯特从未如此深刻、如此公正。当时她告诉他，至少从她那里他永远不会知道自己是否正确；因为她不会告诉他。这就是她现在所照顾的。这让她有很多事情要做。其中充满了激情、兴奋和宗教。女人有时会在奇怪的练习中发现她们的宗教信仰，而伊莎贝尔现在在她表弟面前扮演角色时，觉得她是在向他表示善意。如果他有那么一刻被骗了，也许会是一种善意。事实上，这种善意主要是想让他相信，他曾经对她造成了很大的伤害，这件事让他感到羞愧，但由于她非常慷慨，而他病得很重，所以她对他没有怨恨。甚至体贴地没有在他面前炫耀她的幸福。拉尔夫躺在沙发上，对这种非同寻常的体贴感到微笑。但他原谅了她，因为她原谅了他。她不希望他因知道她不快乐而感到痛苦：这是一件伟大的事情，而且这样的知识宁愿纠正他也没关系。

For herself, she lingered in the soundless saloon long after the fire had gone out. There was no danger of her feeling the cold; she was in a fever. She heard the small hours strike, and then the great ones, but her vigil took no heed of time. Her mind, assailed by visions, was in a state of extraordinary activity, and her visions might as well come to her there, where she sat up to meet them, as on her pillow, to make a mockery of rest. As I have said, she believed she was not defiant, and what could be a better proof of it than that she should linger there half the night, trying to persuade herself that there was no reason why Pansy shouldn’t be married as you would put a letter in the post-office? When the clock struck four she got up; she was going to bed at last, for the lamp had long since gone out and the candles burned down to their sockets. But even then she stopped again in the middle of the room and stood there gazing at a remembered vision-that of her husband and Madame Merle unconsciously and familiarly associated.
火熄灭后，她自己却在寂静的酒吧里徘徊了很久。她不会感到寒冷。她发烧了。她听到凌晨的钟声敲响，然后是凌晨的钟声，但她的守夜并没有在意时间。她的头脑受到幻象的袭击，处于一种异常活跃的状态，她的幻象可能会出现在她那里，她坐起来迎接它们，就像在枕头上一样，嘲笑休息。正如我所说的，她相信自己并没有目中无人，还有什么比她应该在那儿徘徊半夜，试图说服自己潘西没有理由不应该像你那样结婚更能证明这一点的呢？去邮局寄信吗？当时钟敲响四点时，她站了起来。她终于要上床睡觉了，因为灯早已熄灭，蜡烛也燃尽了。但即便如此，她又在房间中央停了下来，站在那里，凝视着记忆中的景象——她丈夫和梅尔夫人无意识地、熟悉地联系在一起的景象。

Chapter 43
第43章

Three nights after this she took Pansy to a great party, to which Osmond, who never went to dances, did not accompany them. Pansy was as ready for a dance as ever; was not of a generalizing turn and had not extended to other pleasures the interdict she had seen placed on those of love. If she was biding her time or hoping to circumvent her father she must have had a prevision of success. Isabel thought this unlikely; it was much more likely that Pansy had simply determined to be a good girl. She had never had such a chance, and she had a proper esteem for chances. She carried herself no less attentively than usual and kept no less anxious an eye upon her vaporous skirts; she held her bouquet very tight and counted over the flowers for the twentieth time. She made Isabel feel old; it seemed so long since she had been in a flutter about a ball. Pansy, who was greatly admired, was never in want of partners, and very soon after their arrival she gave Isabel, who was not dancing, her bouquet to hold. Isabel had rendered her this service for some minutes when she became aware of the near presence of Edward Rosier. He stood before her; he had lost his affable smile and wore a look of almost military resolution. The change in his appearance would have made Isabel smile if she had not felt his case to be at bottom a hard one: he had always smelt so much more of heliotrope than of gunpowder. He looked at her a moment somewhat fiercely, as if to notify her he was dangerous, and then dropped his eyes on her bouquet. After he had inspected it his glance softened and he said quickly: ‘It’s all pansies; it must be hers!’
三天后的晚上，她带潘西去参加一个盛大的聚会，从未参加过舞会的奥斯蒙德没有陪伴他们。潘西一如既往地准备跳舞。她没有概括性的转向，也没有将她所看到的对爱情的禁令扩展到其他快乐。如果她是在等待时机或者希望绕过她的父亲，那么她一定已经预感到成功了。伊莎贝尔认为这不太可能。更有可能的是，潘西只是决心做一个好女孩。她从来没有过这样的机会，她对机会也有适当的尊重。她的举止和平时一样专心，同样焦急地注视着她那飘逸的裙子。她紧紧地捧着花束，数了第二十遍。她让伊莎贝尔感觉自己老了；她似乎已经很久没有为舞会激动不已了。备受赞赏的潘西从不缺乏舞伴，他们到来后不久，她就把花束交给了不跳舞的伊莎贝尔。当伊莎贝尔意识到爱德华·罗齐尔就在附近时，她已经为她提供了几分钟的服务。他站在她面前；他失去了和蔼可亲的笑容，脸上露出了几乎是军人般的决心。如果伊莎贝尔没有觉得他的案子本质上很棘手的话，他外表的变化会让她微笑：他总是闻到天芥菜的味道，而不是火药的味道。他有些凶狠地看了她一会儿，好像是在告诉她他很危险，然后就把目光落在了她的花束上。他检查完后，目光柔和下来，连忙说道：“都是紫罗兰，都是紫罗兰。”它一定是她的！

Isabel smiled kindly. ‘Yes, it’s hers; she gave it to me to hold.’
伊莎贝尔善意地微笑着。 “是的，这是她的；”她把它交给我拿着。

‘May I hold it a little, Mrs. Osmond?’ the poor young man asked.
“奥斯蒙德夫人，我可以握一下吗？”可怜的年轻人问道。

‘No, I can’t trust you; I’m afraid you wouldn’t give it back.’
“不，我不能相信你；”我担心你不会还给我。

‘I’m not sure that I should; I should leave the house with it instantly.
“我不确定我应该这样做；我应该立即带着它离开家。

But may I not at least have a single flower?’
但我至少不能有一朵花吗？

Isabel hesitated a moment, and then, smiling still, held out the bouquet.
伊莎贝尔犹豫了一会儿，然后仍然微笑着递出了花束。

‘Choose one yourself. It’s frightful what I’m doing for you.’
‘你自己选一个吧。我为你做的事情太可怕了。”

‘Ah, if you do no more than this, Mrs. Osmond!’ Rosier exclaimed with his glass in one eye, carefully choosing his flower.
“啊，如果你不做更多的话，奥斯蒙德夫人！”罗齐尔用一只眼睛戴着眼镜，小心翼翼地挑选着他的花，大声说道。

‘Don’t put it into your button-hole,’ she said. ‘Don’t for the world!
“不要把它放进扣眼里，”她说。 ‘别为了这个世界！

‘I should like her to see it. She has refused to dance with me, but I wish to show her that I believe in her still.’
“我希望她能看到它。她拒绝和我跳舞，但我想让她知道我仍然相信她。

‘It’s very well to show it to her, but it’s out of place to show it to others. Her father has told her not to dance with you.’
“给她看很好，但给别人看就不合适了。”她父亲告诉她不要和你跳舞。

‘And is that all you can do for me? I expected more from you, Mrs. Osmond,’ said the young man in a tone of fine general reference. ‘You know our acquaintance goes back very far-quite into the days of our innocent childhood.’
‘这就是你能为我做的一切吗？我对你的期望更高，奥斯蒙德夫人。”年轻人用一种很好的概括性语气说道。 “你知道我们的相识可以追溯到我们天真的童年时代。”

‘Don’t make me out too old,’ Isabel patiently answered. ‘You come back to that very often, and I’ve never denied it. But I must tell you that, old friends as we are, if you had done me the honour to ask me to marry you I should have refused you on the spot.’
“别让我显得太老了，”伊莎贝尔耐心地回答。 “你经常提到这一点，我从来没有否认过。但我必须告诉你，我们都是老朋友了，如果你有幸向我求婚，我应该当场拒绝你。”

‘Ah, you don’t esteem me then. Say at once that you think me a mere Parisian trifler!’
‘啊，那你就不尊重我了。立刻说你认为我只是一个巴黎小混蛋！”

‘I esteem you very much, but I’m not in love with you. What I mean by that, of course, is that I’m not in love with you for Pansy.’
“我很尊重你，但我不爱你。当然，我的意思是我不是因为潘西才爱你的。

‘Very good; I see. You pity me-that’s all.’ And Edward Rosier looked all round, inconsequently, with his single glass. It was a revelation to him that people shouldn’t be more pleased; but he was at least too proud to show that the deficiency struck him as general.
'非常好;我懂了。你可怜我——仅此而已。”爱德华·罗齐尔拿着他的那只眼镜，漫不经心地环顾四周。这对他来说是一个启示，人们不应该更高兴；但他至少太骄傲了，无法表明他普遍存在这种缺陷。

Isabel for a moment said nothing. His manner and appearance had not the dignity of the deepest tragedy; his little glass, among other things, was against that. But she suddenly felt touched; her own unhappiness, after all, had something in common with his, and it came over her, more than before, that here, in recognizable, if not in romantic form, was the most affecting thing in the world-young love struggling with adversity. ‘Would you really be very kind to her?’ she finally asked in a low tone.
伊莎贝尔一时间什么也没说。他的举止和外表没有最深沉的悲剧的尊严；他的小玻璃杯，除其他外，反对这一点。但她突然感到很感动；毕竟，她自己的不幸与他的不幸有一些共同之处，她比以前更加意识到，在这里，以可识别的形式，如果不是以浪漫的形式，是世界上最感人的事情——与逆境作斗争的年轻爱情。 “你真的会对她很好吗？”她终于低声问道。

He dropped his eyes devoutly and raised the little flower that he held in his fingers to his lips. Then he looked at her. ‘You pity me; but don’t you pity her a little?’
他虔诚地垂下眼帘，将手指上的小花举到唇边。然后他看着她。 ‘你可怜我；但你就不可怜她一点吗？

‘I don’t know; I’m not sure. She’ll always enjoy life.’
'我不知道;我不知道。她将永远享受生活。

‘It will depend on what you call life!’ Mr. Rosier effectively said. ‘She won’t enjoy being tortured.’
“这取决于你所谓的生活！”罗齐尔先生有效地说。 “她不会喜欢被折磨的。”

‘There’ll be nothing of that.’
“不会有那样的事。”

‘I’m glad to hear it. She knows what she’s about. You’ll see.’
‘我很高兴听到这个消息。她知道自己在做什么。你会看到的。'

‘I think she does, and she’ll never disobey her father. But she’s coming back to me,’ Isabel added, ‘and I must beg you to go away.’
“我想她会的，而且她永远不会违背她的父亲。但她会回到我身边，”伊莎贝尔补充道，“我必须求你离开。”

Rosier lingered a moment till Pansy came in sight on the arm of her cavalier; he stood just long enough to look her in the face. Then he walked away, holding up his head; and the manner in which he achieved this sacrifice to expediency convinced Isabel he was very much in love.
罗齐尔逗留了一会儿，直到潘西出现在她骑士的手臂上。他站得足够长，足以看着她的脸。然后他抬起头走开了；他为了权宜之计做出的牺牲让伊莎贝尔确信他是深爱着他的。

Pansy, who seldom got disarranged in dancing, looking perfectly fresh and cool after this exercise, waited a moment and then took back her bouquet. Isabel watched her and saw she was counting the flowers; whereupon she said to herself that decidedly there were deeper forces at play than she had recognized. Pansy had seen Rosier turn away, but she said nothing to Isabel about him; she talked only of her partner, after he had made his bow and retired; of the music, the floor, the rare misfortune of having already torn her dress. Isabel was sure, however, she had discovered her lover to have abstracted a flower; though this knowledge was not needed to account for the dutiful grace with which she responded to the appeal of her next partner. That perfect amenity under acute constraint was part of a larger system. She was again led forth by a flushed young man, this time carrying her bouquet; and she had not been absent many minutes when Isabel saw Lord Warburton advancing through the crowd. He presently drew near and bade her good-evening; she had not seen him since the day before. He looked about him, and then ‘Where’s the little maid?’ he asked. It was in this manner that he had formed the harmless habit of alluding to Miss Osmond.
跳舞时很少出现混乱的Pansy，经过这次练习后看起来非常清新和凉爽，她等了一会儿，然后收回了她的花束。伊莎贝尔看着她，发现她正在数花。于是她对自己说，肯定有比她认识到的更深层次的力量在起作用。潘西看到罗齐尔转身离开，但她没有对伊莎贝尔提及他的事。她只在她的伴侣鞠躬退休后才谈论他。音乐、地板、以及已经撕破衣服的罕见不幸。然而，伊莎贝尔确信，她发现她的情人提取了一朵花；尽管这些知识并不需要解释她在回应下一位伴侣的呼吁时表现出的尽职尽责的优雅。这种在严格限制下的完美便利设施是一个更大系统的一部分。她再次被一位脸红的年轻人领着走，这次他手里拿着她的花束。伊莎贝尔看到沃伯顿勋爵从人群中走过来，她还没离开多久。不久他就走近了，向她道晚安。从前一天起她就没见过他。他环顾四周，然后问道：“小女仆在哪里？”正是通过这种方式，他养成了暗指奥斯蒙德小姐的无害习惯。

‘She’s dancing,’ said Isabel. ‘You’ll see her somewhere.’
“她在跳舞，”伊莎贝尔说。 “你会在某个地方见到她的。”

He looked among the dancers and at last caught Pansy’s eye. ‘She sees me, but she won’t notice me,’ he then remarked. ‘Are you not dancing?’
他在舞者中间看了看，最后引起了潘西的注意。 “她看到了我，但她不会注意到我，”他接着说道。 “你不跳舞吗？”

‘As you see, I’m a wall-flower.’
“如你所见，我是一朵壁花。”

‘Won’t you dance with me?’
“你愿意和我跳舞吗？”

‘Thank you; I’d rather you should dance with the little maid.’
'谢谢;我宁愿你和小女仆跳舞。

‘One needn’t prevent the other-especially as she’s engaged.’
“一个人不需要阻止另一个人——尤其是当她订婚的时候。”

‘She’s not engaged for everything, and you can reserve yourself. She dances very hard, and you’ll be the fresher.’
“她不会事事都忙，你可以自己保留。”她跳舞跳得很卖力，你会更精神。”

‘She dances beautifully,’ said Lord Warburton, following her with his eyes. ‘Ah, at last,’ he added, ‘she has given me a smile.’ He stood there with his handsome, easy, important physiognomy; and as Isabel observed him it came over her, as it had done before, that it was strange a man of his mettle should take an interest in a little maid. It struck her as a great incongruity; neither Pansy’s small fascinations, nor his own kindness, his good-nature, not even his need for amusement, which was extreme and constant, were sufficient to account for it. ‘I should like to dance with you,’ he went on in a moment, turning back to Isabel; ‘but I think I like even better to talk with you.’
“她跳舞跳得很美，”沃伯顿勋爵一边说，一边目光追随着她。 “啊，终于，”他补充道，“她给了我一个微笑。”他站在那儿，面容英俊、从容、举止端庄。当伊莎贝尔观察他时，她感到像以前一样，一个有勇气的男人会对一个小女仆感兴趣，这很奇怪。她觉得这很不协调。无论是潘西的小小迷恋，还是他自己的善良、他的善良，甚至他对娱乐的需求，这是极端而持续的，都不足以解释这一点。 “我想和你跳舞，”他转过身继续对着伊莎贝尔。 “但我想我更喜欢和你说话。”

‘Yes, it’s better, and it’s more worthy of your dignity. Great statesmen oughtn’t to waltz.’
‘是的，这样更好，更对得起你的尊严。伟大的政治家不应该跳华尔兹。”

‘Don’t be cruel. Why did you recommend me then to dance with Miss Osmond?’
‘别太残忍了。那么你为什么推荐我和奥斯蒙德小姐跳舞呢？

‘Ah, that’s different. If you danced with her it would look simply like a piece of kindness-as if you were doing it for her amusement. If you dance with me you’ll look as if you were doing it for your own.’
‘啊，那不一样。如果你和她跳舞，那看起来简直就是一种善意——就好像你这样做是为了让她开心。如果你和我一起跳舞，你看起来就像是为自己跳舞一样。”

‘And pray haven’t I a right to amuse myself?’
“请问我难道没有权利自娱自乐吗？”

‘No, not with the affairs of the British Empire on your hands.’
“不，大英帝国的事务都在你手里。”

‘The British Empire be hanged! You’re always laughing at it.’
‘大英帝国被绞死！你总是嘲笑它。

‘Amuse yourself with talking to me,’ said Isabel.
“跟我说话吧，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘I’m not sure it’s really a recreation. You’re too pointed; I’ve always to be defending myself. And you strike me as more than usually dangerous to-night. Will you absolutely not dance?’
“我不确定这真的是一种娱乐。你太尖锐了；我总是要为自己辩护。我觉得你今晚比平常更危险。你绝对不跳舞吗？

‘I can’t leave my place. Pansy must find me here.’
‘我不能离开我的地方。潘西必须在这里找到我。

He was silent a little. ‘You’re wonderfully good to her,’ he said suddenly.
他沉默了一会儿。 “你对她太好了，”他突然说道。

Isabel stared a little and smiled. ‘Can you imagine one’s not being?’
伊莎贝尔凝视了一下，微笑着。 “你能想象一个人不存在吗？”

‘No indeed. I know how one is charmed with her. But you must have done a great deal for her.’
‘确实不。我知道人们对她是多么着迷。但你一定为她做了很多事情。”

‘I’ve taken her out with me,’ said Isabel, smiling still. ‘And I’ve seen that she has proper clothes.’
“我带她出去了，”伊莎贝尔仍然微笑着说道。 “而且我看到她穿着合适的衣服。”

‘Your society must have been a great benefit to her. You’ve talked to her, advised her, helped her to develop.’
‘你们的交往一定对她有很大的好处。你和她交谈，给她建议，帮助她成长。”

‘Ah yes, if she isn’t the rose she has lived near it.’
“啊，是的，如果她不是那朵玫瑰，她就住在它附近。”

She laughed, and her companion did as much; but there was a certain visible preoccupation in his face which interfered with complete hilarity. ‘We all try to live as near it as we can,’ he said after a moment’s hesitation.
她笑了，她的同伴也笑了。但他脸上明显有一种专注的神情，这妨碍了他的欢闹。 “我们都尽量住得离它近一点，”他犹豫了一下后说道。

Isabel turned away; Pansy was about to be restored to her, and she welcomed the diversion. We know how much she liked Lord Warburton; she thought him pleasanter even than the sum of his merits warranted; there was something in his friendship that appeared a kind of resource in case of indefinite need; it was like having a large balance at the bank. She felt happier when he was in the room; there was something reassuring in his approach; the sound of his voice reminded her of the beneficence of nature. Yet for all that it didn’t suit her that he should be too near her, that he should take too much of her good-will for granted. She was afraid of that; she averted herself from it; she wished he wouldn’t. She felt that if he should come too near, as it were, it might be in her to flash out and bid him keep his distance. Pansy came back to Isabel with another rent in her skirt, which was the inevitable consequence of the first and which she displayed to Isabel with serious eyes. There were too many gentlemen in uniform; they wore those dreadful spurs, which were fatal to the dresses of little maids. It hereupon became apparent that the resources of women are innumerable. Isabel devoted herself to Pansy’s desecrated drapery; she fumbled for a pin and repaired the injury; she smiled and listened to her account of her adventures. Her attention, her sympathy were immediate and active; and they were in direct proportion to a sentiment with which they were in no way connected-a lively conjecture as to whether Lord Warburton might be trying to make love to her. It was not simply his words just then; it was others as well; it was the reference and the continuity. This was what she thought about while she pinned up Pansy’s dress. If it were so, as she feared, he was of course unwitting; he himself had not taken account of his intention. But this made it none the more auspicious, made the situation none the less impossible. The sooner he should get back into right relations with things the better. He immediately began to talk to Pansy-on whom it was certainly mystifying to see that he dropped a smile of chastened devotion. Pansy replied, as usual, with a little air of conscientious aspiration; he had to bend toward her a good deal in conversation, and her eyes, as usual, wandered up and down his robust person as if he had offered it to her for exhibition. She always seemed a little frightened; yet her fright was not of the painful character that suggests dislike; on the contrary, she looked as if she knew that he knew she liked him. Isabel left them together a little and wandered toward a friend whom she saw near and with whom she talked till the music of the following dance began, for which she knew Pansy to be also engaged. The girl joined her presently, with a little fluttered flush, and Isabel, who scrupulously took Osmond’s view of his daughter’s complete dependence, consigned her, as a precious and momentary loan, to her appointed partner. About all this matter she had her own imaginations, her own reserves; there were moments when Pansy’s extreme adhesiveness made each of them, to her sense, look foolish. But Osmond had given her a sort of tableau of her position as his daughter’s duenna, which consisted of gracious alternations of concession and contraction; and there were directions of his which she liked to think she obeyed to the letter. Perhaps, as regards some of them, it was because her doing so appeared to reduce them to the absurd.
伊莎贝尔转过身去。潘西即将回到她身边，她对这种转移表示欢迎。我们知道她有多喜欢沃伯顿勋爵；她认为他比他的优点的总和还要令人愉快。他的友谊中有些东西似乎是一种资源，以备不时之需。这就像在银行有大量余额一样。当他在房间里时，她感到更快乐；当他在房间里时，她感到更快乐。他的态度让人感到安心。他的声音让她想起大自然的仁慈。然而，尽管如此，他还是不适合她，因为他离她太近，他把她的善意视为理所当然。她害怕这个；她害怕这个。她避开了它；她希望他不会。她觉得，如果他离得太近，她可能会闪身而出，让他保持距离。潘西回到伊莎贝尔身边时，裙子又撕裂了，这是第一次撕裂不可避免的结果，她用严肃的眼神向伊莎贝尔展示了这一点。穿着制服的绅士太多了；她们穿着那些可怕的马刺，这对小女仆的衣服来说是致命的。由此可见，妇女的资源是数不胜数的。伊莎贝尔全身心投入到潘西被亵渎的帷幔上。她摸索着找到一根别针，修复了伤口。她微笑着听她讲述自己的冒险经历。她的关注和同情是直接而积极的。它们与一种与他们毫无关系的情感成正比——这是关于沃伯顿勋爵是否试图与她做爱的生动猜测。不仅仅是他刚才的话；也有其他人；这是参考和连续性。这就是她在别住Pansy的裙子时所想到的。 如果真是这样，正如她担心的那样，他当然是不知情的。他本人并没有考虑到他的意图。但这并没有让事情变得更加吉祥，也让情况变得不可能。他越早与事物恢复正确的关系越好。他立即开始与潘西昂交谈，看到潘西昂脸上露出了一丝虔诚的微笑，这确实令人费解。潘西像往常一样回答，带着一丝认真的渴望。谈话时，他不得不经常向她弯腰，而她的眼睛，像往常一样，在他健壮的身体上上下移动，仿佛他把它提供给她展示。她看上去总是有点害怕。然而，她的恐惧并不具有表明不喜欢的痛苦特征。相反，她看起来好像知道他知道她喜欢他。伊莎贝尔离开了他们一会儿，朝一位她看到在附近的朋友走去，并与他交谈，直到接下来的舞蹈音乐开始，她知道潘西也订婚了。不久，女孩也加入了她的行列，脸上泛起一丝红晕，伊莎贝尔谨慎地接受了奥斯蒙德对女儿完全依赖的看法，将她托付给她指定的伴侣，作为宝贵的暂时借用。对于这一切，她有自己的想象力，有自己的储备；有时候，在她看来，潘西极端的粘性让他们每个人都显得愚蠢。但奥斯蒙德给了她一种作为他女儿的杜娜的地位的画面，其中包括让步和收缩的优雅交替。她喜欢认为自己严格遵守了他的指示。或许，对于其中一些人来说，是因为她的这样做，显得他们变得荒唐可笑。

After Pansy had been led away, she found Lord Warburton drawing near her again. She rested her eyes on him steadily; she wished she could sound his thoughts. But he had no appearance of confusion. ‘She has promised to dance with me later,’ he said.
潘西被带走后，她发现沃伯顿勋爵再次靠近她。她的目光定定地落在他身上。她希望能说出他的想法。但他并没有表现出困惑的样子。 “她答应稍后和我跳舞，”他说。

‘I’m glad of that. I suppose you’ve engaged her for the cotillion.’
‘我对此很高兴。我想你已经邀请她参加舞会了。

At this he looked a little awkward. ‘No, I didn’t ask her for that. It’s a quadrille.’
想到这里，他显得有些尴尬。 “不，我没有问她这个。这是一个四边形。

‘Ah, you’re not clever!’ said Isabel almost angrily. ‘I told her to keep the cotillion in case you should ask for it.’
“啊，你不聪明！”伊莎贝尔几乎生气地说。 “我告诉她把舞会保留下来，以防万一你需要。”

‘Poor little maid, fancy that!’ And Lord Warburton laughed frankly.
“可怜的小女仆，想象一下吧！”沃伯顿勋爵坦率地笑道。

‘Of course I will if you like.’
“当然，如果你愿意的话，我会的。”

‘If I like? Oh, if you dance with her only because I like it-!
'如果我喜欢？哦，如果你只是因为我喜欢就和她跳舞的话——！

‘I’m afraid I bore her. She seems to have a lot of young fellows on her book.’
‘恐怕我让她厌烦了。她的书中似乎有很多年轻人。

Isabel dropped her eyes, reflecting rapidly; Lord Warburton stood there looking at her and she felt his eyes on her face. She felt much inclined to ask him to remove them. She didn’t do so, however; she only said to him, after a minute, with her own raised:
伊莎贝尔垂下眼睛，迅速反思。沃伯顿勋爵站在那里看着她，她感觉到他的目光注视着她的脸。她很想请他把它们去掉。然而她并没有这样做；过了一会儿，她才举起手来对他说：

‘Please let me understand.’
“请让我明白。”

‘Understand what?’
'懂什么？'

‘You told me ten days ago that you’d like to marry my stepdaughter.
“十天前你告诉我你想娶我的继女。

You’ve not forgotten it!’
你没有忘记！

‘Forgotten it? I wrote to Mr. Osmond about it this morning.’
‘忘记了？今天早上我写信给奥斯蒙德先生谈了这件事。

‘Ah,’ said Isabel, ‘he didn’t mention to me that he had heard from you.’
“啊，”伊莎贝尔说，“他没有向我提到他收到了你的消息。”

Lord Warburton stammered a little. ‘I-I didn’t send my letter.’
沃伯顿勋爵有点结巴了。 “我、我没有寄出我的信。”

‘Perhaps you forgot that.’
“也许你忘了这一点。”

‘No, I wasn’t satisfied with it. It’s an awkward sort of letter to write, you know. But I shall send it to-night.’
‘不，我对此并不满意。你知道，这是一封写起来很尴尬的信。但我今晚会把它寄出去。”

‘At three o’clock in the morning?’
“凌晨三点？”

‘I mean later, in the course of the day.’
“我的意思是稍后，在一天中。”

‘Very good. You still wish then to marry her?’
'非常好。那你还想娶她吗？

‘Very much indeed.’
“确实非常喜欢。”

‘Aren’t you afraid that you’ll bore her?’ And as her companion stared at this enquiry Isabel added: ‘If she can’t dance with you for half an hour how will she be able to dance with you for life?’
“你不怕让她厌烦吗？”当她的同伴盯着这个询问时，伊莎贝尔补充道：“如果她不能和你跳舞半个小时，她怎么能和你跳舞一辈子呢？” '

‘Ah,’ said Lord Warburton readily, ‘I’ll let her dance with other people! About the cotillion, the fact is I thought that you-that you-.’
“啊，”沃伯顿勋爵爽快地说，“我让她和其他人一起跳舞！”关于舞会，事实是我以为你——你——。

‘That I would do it with you? I told you I’d do nothing.’
‘我会和你一起做吗？我告诉过你我什么也不做。

‘Exactly; so that while it’s going on I might find some quiet corner where we may sit down and talk.’
'确切地;这样在进行过程中我可能会找到一些安静的角落，我们可以坐下来谈谈。

‘Oh,’ said Isabel gravely, ‘you’re much too considerate of me.’
“哦，”伊莎贝尔严肃地说，“你太体贴我了。”

When the cotillion came Pansy was found to have engaged herself, thinking, in perfect humility, that Lord Warburton had no intentions. Isabel recommended him to seek another partner, but he assured her that he would dance with no one but herself. As, however, she had, in spite of the remonstrances of her hostess, declined other invitations on the ground that she was not dancing at all, it was not possible for her to make an exception in Lord Warburton’s favour.
当舞会到来时，人们发现潘西已经很投入了，她极其谦卑地认为沃伯顿勋爵没有意图。伊莎贝尔建议他寻找另一位舞伴，但他向她保证，除了她自己，他不会与任何人跳舞。然而，由于她不顾女主人的抗议，以她根本不跳舞为由拒绝了其他邀请，因此她不可能为沃伯顿勋爵破例。

‘After all I don’t care to dance,’ he said; ‘it’s a barbarous amusement: I’d much rather talk.’ And he intimated that he had discovered exactly the corner he had been looking for-a quiet nook in one of the smaller rooms, where the music would come to them faintly and not interfere with conversation. Isabel had decided to let him carry out his idea; she wished to be satisfied. She wandered away from the ball-room with him, though she knew her husband desired she should not lose sight of his daughter. It was with his daughter’s pretendant, however; that would make it right for Osmond. On her way out of the ball-room she came upon Edward Rosier, who was standing in a doorway, with folded arms, looking at the dance in the attitude of a young man without illusions. She stopped a moment and asked him if he were not dancing.
“毕竟我不喜欢跳舞，”他说； “这是一种野蛮的娱乐：我宁愿说话。”他暗示他已经找到了他一直在寻找的角落——一个较小的房间里的一个安静的角落，在那里音乐会微弱地传到他们身边，而不是在他的房间里。干扰谈话。伊莎贝尔决定让他实现他的想法。她希望得到满足。她和他一起走出舞厅，尽管她知道丈夫希望她不要失去他的女儿。然而，这是他女儿的冒充者。这对奥斯蒙德来说是正确的。走出舞厅的时候，她遇到了爱德华·罗齐尔，他正抱着双臂站在门口，以一种不抱任何幻想的年轻人的态度看着舞会。她停了下来，问他是否不跳舞。

‘Certainly not, if I can’t dance with her!’ he answered.
“当然不行，如果我不能和她跳舞的话！”他回答道。

‘You had better go away then,’ said Isabel with the manner of good counsel.
“那你最好走开，”伊莎贝尔以善意劝告的态度说道。

‘I shall not go till she does!’ And he let Lord Warburton pass without giving him a look.
“她不走之前我不会去！”他看也不看沃伯顿勋爵一眼就让沃伯顿勋爵过去了。

This nobleman, however, had noticed the melancholy youth, and he asked Isabel who her dismal friend was, remarking that he had seen him somewhere before.
然而，这位贵族注意到了这个忧郁的年轻人，他问伊莎贝尔她忧郁的朋友是谁，并说他以前在哪里见过他。

‘It’s the young man I’ve told you about, who’s in love with Pansy.’
“这就是我告诉过你的那个年轻人，他爱上了潘西。”

‘Ah yes, I remember. He looks rather bad.’
‘啊，是的，我记得。他看起来很糟糕。

‘He has reason. My husband won’t listen to him.’
‘他有理由。我丈夫不会听他的。

‘What’s the matter with him?’ Lord Warburton enquired. ‘He seems very harmless.’
“他怎么了？”沃伯顿勋爵问道。 “他看起来很无害。”

‘He hasn’t money enough, and he isn’t very clever.’
“他钱不够，而且也不聪明。”

Lord Warburton listened with interest; he seemed struck with this account of Edward Rosier. ‘Dear me; he looked a well-set-up young fellow.’
沃伯顿勋爵饶有兴趣地听着。他似乎对爱德华·罗齐尔的描述感到震惊。 '亲爱的我;他看上去是个精神抖擞的年轻人。”

‘So he is, but my husband’s very particular.’
“确实如此，但我丈夫非常挑剔。”

‘Oh, I see.’ And Lord Warburton paused a moment. ‘How much money has he got?’ he then ventured to ask.
“哦，我明白了。”沃伯顿勋爵停顿了一下。 “他有多少钱？”然后他大胆地问道。

‘Some forty thousand francs a year.’
“每年大约四万法郎。”

‘Sixteen hundred pounds? Ah, but that’s very good, you know.’
‘一千六百英镑？啊，但这很好，你知道。

‘So I think. My husband, however, has larger ideas.’
'所以我认为。然而，我的丈夫有更大的想法。

‘Yes; I’ve noticed that your husband has very large ideas. Is he really an idiot, the young man?’
'是的;我注意到你丈夫有很大的想法。那个年轻人真的是个白痴吗？

‘An idiot? Not in the least; he’s charming. When he was twelve years old I myself was in love with him.’
‘白痴？一点也不；他很迷人。当他十二岁时，我自己就爱上了他。

‘He doesn’t look much more than twelve to-day,’ Lord Warburton rejoined vaguely, looking about him. Then with more point, ‘Don’t you think we might sit here?’ he asked.
“他今天看上去不过十二岁，”沃伯顿勋爵环视四周，含糊地回答道。然后更重要的是，“你不认为我们可以坐在这里吗？”他问道。

‘Wherever you please.’ The room was a sort of boudoir, pervaded by a subdued, rose-coloured light; a lady and gentleman moved out of it as our friends came in.
“无论你想去哪儿。”房间就像是闺房，弥漫着柔和的玫瑰色灯光。当我们的朋友进来时，一位女士和一位先生搬了出来。

‘It’s very kind of you to take such an interest in Mr. Rosier,’ Isabel said.
“您对罗齐尔先生如此感兴趣，真是太好了，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘He seems to me rather ill-treated. He had a face a yard long. I wondered what ailed him.’
“在我看来，他受到了相当虐待。他的脸有一码长。我想知道他怎么了。

‘You’re a just man,’ said Isabel. ‘You’ve a kind thought even for a rival.’
“你是一个正义的人，”伊莎贝尔说。 “即使是对对手，你也有善意的想法。”

Lord Warburton suddenly turned with a stare. ‘A rival! Do you call him my rival?’
沃伯顿勋爵突然转过身来，目光一凝。 ‘对手！你称他为我的对手吗？

‘Surely-if you both wish to marry the same person.’
“当然可以——如果你们都想嫁给同一个人的话。”

‘Yes-but since he has no chance!’
“是的——但是因为他没有机会！”

‘I like you, however that may be, for putting yourself in his place. It shows imagination.’
“不管怎样，我喜欢你，因为你把自己放在了他的位置上。它展现了想象力。

‘You like me for it?’ And Lord Warburton looked at her with an uncertain eye. ‘I think you mean you’re laughing at me for it.’
“你就因为这个而喜欢我吗？”沃伯顿勋爵用不确定的眼神看着她。 “我想你的意思是你在嘲笑我。”

‘Yes, I’m laughing at you a little. But I like you as somebody to laugh at.’
‘是的，我有点嘲笑你。但我喜欢你这个值得嘲笑的人。”

‘Ah well, then, let me enter into his situation a little more. What do you suppose one could do for him?’
‘啊，那么，让我进一步了解一下他的情况。你认为有人能为他做什么？

‘Since I have been praising your imagination I’ll leave you to imagine that yourself,’ Isabel said. ‘Pansy too would like you for that.’
“既然我一直在赞扬你的想象力，那么我就让你自己想象一下，”伊莎贝尔说。 “潘西也希望你能这么做。”

‘Miss Osmond? Ah, she, I flatter myself, likes me already.’
“奥斯蒙德小姐？啊，她，我就夸奖自己了，已经喜欢我了。

‘Very much, I think.’
“我想，非常喜欢。”

He waited a little; he was still questioning her face. ‘Well then, I don’t understand you. You don’t mean that she cares for him?’
他等了一会儿；他还在质疑她的脸。 ‘那么，我不明白你的意思。你不是说她关心他吗？

‘Surely I’ve told you I thought she did.’
“我当然告诉过你我认为她做到了。”

A quick blush sprang to his brow. ‘You told me she would have no wish apart from her father’s, and as I’ve gathered that he would favour me-!’ He paused a little and then suggested ‘Don’t you see?’ through his blush.
他的眉头迅速泛起红晕。 “你告诉我，除了她父亲的愿望之外，她不会有任何愿望，而且据我所知，他会偏爱我——！”他停顿了一下，然后红着脸提出“你难道没有看到吗？”

‘Yes, I told you she has an immense wish to please her father, and that it would probably take her very far.’
“是的，我告诉过你，她非常希望取悦她的父亲，这可能会让她走得很远。”

‘That seems to me a very proper feeling,’ said Lord Warburton.
“在我看来，这是一种非常恰当的感觉，”沃伯顿勋爵说。

‘Certainly; it’s a very proper feeling.’ Isabel remained silent for some moments; the room continued empty; the sound of the music reached them with its richness softened by the interposing apartments. Then at last she said: ‘But it hardly strikes me as the sort of feeling to which a man would wish to be indebted for a wife.’
'当然; “这是一种非常恰当的感觉。”伊莎贝尔沉默了一会儿。房间依然空荡荡。音乐声传到他们耳中，其丰富性被中间的公寓削弱了。最后她说道：“但在我看来，这并不是一个男人愿意为妻子所欠的那种感觉。”

‘I don’t know; if the wife’s a good one and he thinks she does well!
'我不知道;如果妻子是个好妻子并且他认为她做得很好！

‘Yes, of course you must think that.’
“是的，你当然一定这么想。”

‘I do; I can’t help it. You call that very British, of course.’
'我愿意;我情不自禁。当然，你称其为非常英国式的。

‘No, I don’t. I think Pansy would do wonderfully well to marry you, and I don’t know who should know it better than you. But you’re not in love.’
'不，我不。我认为潘西嫁给你会非常好，我不知道谁应该比你更了解这一点。但你并没有恋爱。

‘Ah, yes I am, Mrs. Osmond!’
“啊，是的，奥斯蒙德夫人！”

Isabel shook her head. ‘You like to think you are while you sit here with me. But that’s not how you strike me.’
伊莎贝尔摇摇头。 ‘当你和我坐在这儿的时候，你喜欢认为你是这样的。但这不是你打我的方式。

‘I’m not like the young man in the doorway. I admit that. But what makes it so unnatural? Could any one in the world be more loveable than Miss Osmond?’
“我不像门口的那个年轻人。我承认这一点。但是什么让它如此不自然呢？世界上还有比奥斯蒙德小姐更可爱的人吗？

‘No one, possibly. But love has nothing to do with good reasons.’
“可能没有人。”但爱情与充分的理由无关。”

‘I don’t agree with you. I’m delighted to have good reasons.’
‘我不同意你的观点。我很高兴有充分的理由。

‘Of course you are. If you were really in love you wouldn’t care a straw for them.’
‘当然是这样。如果你真的相爱，你就不会关心他们。”

‘Ah, really in love-really in love!’ Lord Warburton exclaimed, folding his arms, leaning back his head and stretching himself a little. ‘You must remember that I’m forty-two years old. I won’t pretend I’m as I once ‘Well, if you’re sure,’ said Isabel, ‘it’s all right.’
“啊，真的爱上了——真的爱上了！”沃伯顿勋爵喊道，他抱起双臂，向后仰着头，稍微伸展了一下身体。 ‘你必须记住，我已经四十二岁了。我不会假装自己像以前一样“好吧，如果你确定的话，”伊莎贝尔说，“那就没关系。”

He answered nothing; he sat there, with his head back, looking before him. Abruptly, however, he changed his position; he turned quickly to his friend. ‘Why are you so unwilling, so sceptical?’
他没有回答。他坐在那里，头向后仰，看着前方。然而，他突然改变了立场。他迅速转向他的朋友。 “你为什么这么不愿意，这么怀疑？”

She met his eyes, and for a moment they looked straight at each other. If she wished to be satisfied she saw something that satisfied her; she saw in his expression the gleam of an idea that she was uneasy on her own account-that she was perhaps even in fear. It showed a suspicion, not a hope, but such as it was it told her what she wanted to know. Not for an instant should he suspect her of detecting in his proposal of marrying her stepdaughter an implication of increased nearness to herself, or of thinking it, on such a betrayal, ominous. In that brief, extremely personal gaze, however, deeper meanings passed between them than they were conscious of at the moment.
她与他的目光相遇，有那么一刻，他们直视对方。如果她希望得到满足，她就会看到令她满意的东西；她从他的表情中看出一丝暗示，她为自己感到不安——她甚至可能感到害怕。它表现出一种怀疑，而不是希望，但它告诉了她她想知道的事情。他丝毫不应该怀疑她在他与继女结婚的提议中发现了与她自己更加亲近的暗示，或者认为她认为这种背叛是不祥的。然而，在那短暂的、极其个人化的凝视中，他们之间传递着比他们此刻意识到的更深层次的意义。

‘My dear Lord Warburton,’ she said, smiling, ‘you may do, as far as I’m concerned, whatever comes into your head.’
“亲爱的沃伯顿勋爵，”她微笑着说，“就我而言，你可以做任何你想到的事情。”

And with this she got up and wandered into the adjoining room, where, within her companion’s view, she was immediately addressed by a pair of gentlemen, high personages in the Roman world, who met her as if they had been looking for her. While she talked with them she found herself regretting she had moved; it looked a little like running away-all the more as Lord Warburton didn’t follow her. She was glad of this, however, and at any rate she was satisfied. She was so well satisfied that when, in passing back into the ball-room, she found Edward Rosier still planted in the doorway, she stopped and spoke to him again. ‘You did right not to go away. I’ve some comfort for you.’
说完，她站起身来，走进了隔壁的房间，在她同伴的视野里，一对罗马世界的显贵绅士立即向她招呼，他们迎接她，就像是在寻找她一样。当她与他们交谈时，她发现自己后悔自己搬家了。这看起来有点像逃跑——尤其是沃伯顿勋爵没有跟着她。不过，她对此很高兴，至少她很满意。她非常满意，当她回到舞厅时，发现爱德华·罗齐尔仍然站在门口，她停下来再次对他说话。 ‘你没有走开是对的。我有一些安慰你。

‘I need it,’ the young man softly wailed, ‘when I see you so awfully thick with him!’
“我需要它，”年轻人轻声哭道，“当我看到你和他如此亲密时！”

‘Don’t speak of him; I’ll do what I can for you. I’m afraid it won’t be much, but what I can I’ll do.’
‘别提他了；我会为你尽力而为。恐怕不会太多，但我会尽力而为。

He looked at her with gloomy obliqueness. ‘What has suddenly brought you round?’
他用阴郁的斜视看着她。 “是什么让你突然清醒过来？”

‘The sense that you are an inconvenience in doorways!’ she answered, smiling as she passed him. Half an hour later she took leave, with Pansy, and at the foot of the staircase the two ladies, with many other departing guests, waited a while for their carriage. just as it approached Lord Warburton came out of the house and assisted them to reach their vehicle. He stood a moment at the door, asking Pansy if she had amused herself; and she, having answered him, fell back with a little air of fatigue. Then Isabel, at the window, detaining him by a movement of her finger, murmured gently: ‘Don’t forget to send your letter to her father!’
“感觉你在门口给你带来不便！”她经过他身边时微笑着回答。半小时后，她带着潘西离开了，两位女士和许多其他即将离开的客人在楼梯脚下等了一会儿他们的马车。就在它接近的时候，沃伯顿勋爵从房子里出来，帮助他们到达他们的车辆。他在门口站了一会儿，问潘西是否玩得很开心。她回答完他，就向后倒去，神情有些疲倦。然后伊莎贝尔在窗边用手指一动就留住了他，轻轻地低声说道：“别忘了把你的信寄给她父亲！”

Chapter 44
第44章

The Countess Gemini was often extremely bored-bored, in her own phrase, to extinction. She had not been extinguished, however, and she struggled bravely enough with her destiny, which had been to marry an unaccommodating Florentine who insisted upon living in his native town, where he enjoyed such consideration as might attach to a gentleman whose talent for losing at cards had not the merit of being incidental to an obliging disposition. The Count Gemini was not liked even by those who won from him; and he bore a name, which, having a measurable value in Florence, was, like the local coin of the old Italian states, without currency in other parts of the peninsula. In Rome he was simply a very dull Florentine, and it is not remarkable that he should not have cared to pay frequent visits to a place where, to carry it off, his dulness needed more explanation than was convenient. The Countess lived with her eyes upon Rome, and it was the constant grievance of her life that she had not an habitation there. She was ashamed to say how seldom she had been allowed to visit that city; it scarcely made the matter better that there were other members of the Florentine nobility who never had been there at all. She went whenever she could; that was all she could say. Or rather not all, but all she said she could say. In fact she had much more to say about it, and had often set forth the reasons why she hated Florence and wished to end her days in the shadow of Saint Peter’s. They are reasons, however, that do not closely concern us, and were usually summed up in the declaration that Rome, in short, was the Eternal City and that Florence was simply a pretty little place like any other. The Countess apparently needed to connect the idea of eternity with her amusements. She was convinced that society was infinitely more interesting in Rome, where you met celebrities all winter at evening parties. At Florence there were no celebrities; none at least that one had heard of. Since her brother’s marriage her impatience had greatly increased; she was so sure his wife had a more brilliant life than herself. She was not so intellectual as Isabel, but she was intellectual enough to do justice to Rome-not to the ruins and the catacombs, not even perhaps to the monuments and museums, the church ceremonies and the scenery; but certainly to all the rest. She heard a great deal about her sister-in-law and knew perfectly that Isabel was having a beautiful time. She had indeed seen it for herself on the only occasion on which she had enjoyed the hospitality of Palazzo Roccanera. She had spent a week there during the first winter of her brother’s marriage, but she had not been encouraged to renew this satisfaction. Osmond didn’t want her-that she was perfectly aware of; but she would have gone all the same, for after all she didn’t care two straws about Osmond. It was her husband who wouldn’t let her, and the money question was always a trouble. Isabel had been very nice; the Countess, who had liked her sister-in-law from the first, had not been blinded by envy to Isabel’s personal merits. She had always observed that she got on better with clever women than with silly ones like herself; the silly ones could never understand her wisdom, whereas the clever ones-the really clever ones-always understood her silliness. It appeared to her that, different as they were in appearance and general style, Isabel and she had somewhere a patch of common ground that they would set their feet upon at last. It was not very large, but it was firm, and they should both know it when once they had really touched it. And then she lived, with Mrs. Osmond, under the influence of a pleasant surprise; she was constantly expecting that Isabel would ‘look down’ on her, and she as constantly saw this operation postponed. She asked herself when it would begin, like fire-works, or Lent, or the opera season; not that she cared much, but she wondered what kept it in abeyance. Her sister-in-law regarded her with none but level glances and expressed for the poor Countess as little contempt as admiration. In reality Isabel would as soon have thought of despising her as of passing a moral judgement on a grasshopper. She was not indifferent to her husband’s sister, however; she was rather a little afraid of her. She wondered at her; she thought her very extraordinary. The Countess seemed to her to have no soul; she was like a bright rare shell, with a polished surface and a remarkably pink lip, in which something would rattle when you shook it. This rattle was apparently the Countess’s spiritual principle, a little loose nut that tumbled about inside of her. She was too odd for disdain, too anomalous for comparisons. Isabel would have invited her again (there was no question of inviting the Count); but Osmond, after his marriage, had not scrupled to say frankly that Amy was a fool of the worst species-a fool whose folly had the irrepressibility of genius. He said at another time that she had no heart; and he added in a moment that she had given it all away-in small pieces, like a frosted wedding-cake. The fact of not having been asked was of course another obstacle to the Countess’s going again to Rome; but at the period with which this history has now to deal she was in receipt of an invitation to spend several weeks at Palazzo Roccanera. The proposal had come from Osmond himself, who wrote to his sister that she must be prepared to be very quiet. Whether or no she found in this phrase all the meaning he had put into it I am unable to say; but she accepted the invitation on any terms. She was curious, moreover; for one of the impressions of her former visit had been that her brother had found his match. Before the marriage she had been sorry for Isabel, so sorry as to have had serious thoughts-if any of the Countess’s thoughts were serious-of putting her on her guard. But she had let that pass, and after a little she was reassured. Osmond was as lofty as ever, but his wife would not be an easy victim. The Countess was not very exact at measurements, but it seemed to her that if Isabel should draw herself up she would be the taller spirit of the two. What she wanted to learn now was whether Isabel had drawn herself up; it would give her immense pleasure to see Osmond overtopped.
双子伯爵夫人常常极度无聊——用她自己的话说，无聊得要死。然而，她并没有被消灭，她勇敢地与自己的命运作斗争，她的命运是嫁给一个不宽容的佛罗伦萨人，他坚持住在自己的家乡，在那里他享受着像一位绅士那样的考虑，而这位绅士的才华却输给了他。卡片不具有作为义务处置的附带优点。即使是那些从他那里获胜的人也不喜欢双子伯爵。他的名字在佛罗伦萨具有可衡量的价值，就像古老的意大利各州的当地硬币一样，在半岛的其他地区没有货币。在罗马，他只是一个非常迟钝的佛罗伦萨人，而且他不应该经常去一个地方，这并不奇怪，因为为了达到目的，他的迟钝需要更多的解释，而不是方便。伯爵夫人的生活一直注视着罗马，但她一生中一直感到不满的是，她在那里没有住所。她很羞愧地说，她很少被允许参观那个城市。更糟糕的是，还有其他佛罗伦萨贵族成员根本没有去过那里。只要有时间她就去。她只能这么说。或者更确切地说，不是全部，而是她能说的全部。事实上，她对此还有很多话要说，并且经常阐述她讨厌佛罗伦萨并希望在圣彼得教堂的阴影下结束自己的日子的原因。然而，这些原因与我们并不密切相关，并且通常被总结为这样的声明：简而言之，罗马是永恒之城，而佛罗伦萨只是一个像其他地方一样漂亮的小地方。伯爵夫人显然需要将永恒的想法与她的娱乐联系起来。 她坚信罗马的社会更加有趣，整个冬天你都可以在晚会上遇到名人。佛罗伦萨没有名人。至少没有人听说过。自从她哥哥结婚后，她的不耐烦就大大增加了。她确信他妻子的生活比她自己更辉煌。她不像伊莎贝尔那样聪明，但她有足够的智慧来公正地对待罗马——而不是废墟和地下墓穴，甚至也许不是纪念碑和博物馆、教堂仪式和风景；但对其他人来说肯定如此。她听说了很多关于她嫂子的事情，并且完全知道伊莎贝尔正在度过一段美好的时光。她确实亲眼目睹了这一点，这是她唯一一次享受罗卡内拉宫的热情款待。在她哥哥结婚的第一个冬天，她在那里度过了一周，但她并没有被鼓励去重新获得这种满足感。奥斯蒙德不想要她——这一点她心里很清楚。但她还是会走，因为毕竟她对奥斯蒙德一点也不关心。丈夫不让，钱的问题一直是个难题。伊莎贝尔人很好。伯爵夫人从一开始就喜欢她的嫂子，她并没有被伊莎贝尔的个人优点所嫉妒所蒙蔽。她一直发现，她与聪明的女人相处得比与像她这样愚蠢的女人相处得更好。愚蠢的人永远无法理解她的智慧，而聪明的人——真正聪明的人——却总是能理解她的愚蠢。在她看来，尽管伊莎贝尔和她在外表和总体风格上有所不同，但他们最终还是有一些共同点的。 虽然不是很大，但很坚固，真正摸过之后，他们就应该知道。然后她和奥斯蒙德夫人生活在一起，受到了一个惊喜的影响。她一直期待伊莎贝尔会“看不起”她，而她也一直看到这个手术被推迟。她问自己什么时候开始，比如烟花，或者四旬斋，或者歌剧季节；或者什么时候开始？并不是说她很在意，而是她想知道是什么让这件事被搁置了。她的嫂子只是用平视的目光看着她，对这位可怜的伯爵夫人既没有轻蔑，也没有表示钦佩。事实上，伊莎贝尔会立即想到鄙视她，就像对一只蚱蜢做出道德判断一样。然而，她对丈夫的妹妹并不是无动于衷。她有点怕她。她对她感到奇怪；她认为她非常非凡。在她看来，伯爵夫人似乎没有灵魂。她就像一个明亮的稀有贝壳，表面光滑，嘴唇呈粉红色，当你摇动它时，里面有东西会发出嘎嘎声。这种嘎嘎声显然是伯爵夫人的精神原则，是一颗在她体内翻滚的小松动的坚果。她太奇怪了，不值得轻蔑，太反常，不值得比较。伊莎贝尔会再次邀请她（不存在邀请伯爵的问题）；但奥斯蒙德在结婚后，毫不犹豫地坦白说，艾米是最糟糕的傻瓜——这个傻瓜的愚蠢有着天才般的不可抑制性。他还有一次说她没有心。过了一会儿，他又补充说，她已经把一切都送出去了——分成小块，就像一块磨砂的婚礼蛋糕。 没有被邀请的事实当然是伯爵夫人再次前往罗马的另一个障碍。但在这段历史现在要讨论的时期，她收到了在罗卡内拉宫度过几周的邀请。这个提议是奥斯蒙德本人提出的，他写信给他的妹妹，说她必须做好保持沉默的准备。我无法说她是否在这句话中找到了他赋予它的全部含义；但我知道她的意思。但她不惜任何条件接受了邀请。此外，她也很好奇。因为她上次来访的印象之一就是她的哥哥找到了他的对手。结婚之前，她一直为伊莎贝尔感到难过，难过到产生了严肃的想法——如果伯爵夫人的想法是认真的的话——要让她保持警惕。但她已经把这件事过去了，过了一会儿她就放心了。奥斯蒙德一如既往地高高在上，但他的妻子不会轻易成为受害者。伯爵夫人的尺寸不是很精确，但在她看来，如果伊莎贝尔把自己摆正，她会是两个人中更高的一个。她现在想知道的是伊莎贝尔是否已经做好了准备。看到奥斯蒙德被超越，她会感到无比高兴。

Several days before she was to start for Rome a servant brought her the card of a visitor-a card with the simple superscription ‘Henrietta C. Stackpole.’ The Countess pressed her finger-tips to her forehead; she didn’t remember to have known any such Henrietta as that. The servant then remarked that the lady had requested him to say that if the Countess should not recognize her name she would know her well enough on seeing her. By the time she appeared before her visitor she had in fact reminded herself that there was once a literary lady at Mrs. Touchett’s; the only woman of letters she had ever encountered-that is the only modern one, since she was the daughter of a defunct poetess. She recognized Miss Stackpole immediately, the more so that Miss Stackpole seemed perfectly unchanged; and the Countess, who was thoroughly good-natured, thought it rather fine to be called on by a person of that sort of distinction. She wondered if Miss Stackpole had come on account of her mother-whether she had heard of the American Corinne. Her mother was not at all like Isabel’s friend; the Countess could see at a glance that this lady was much more contemporary; and she received an impression of the improvements that were taking place-chiefly in distant countries-in the character (the professional character) of literary ladies. Her mother had been used to wear a Roman scarf thrown over a pair of shoulders timorously bared of their tight black velvet (oh the old clothes! and a gold laurel-wreath set upon a multitude of glossy ringlets. She had spoken softly and vaguely, with the accent of her ‘Creole’ ancestors, as she always confessed; she sighed a great deal and was not at all enterprising. But Henrietta, the Countess could see, was always closely buttoned and compactly braided; there was something brisk and business-like in her appearance; her manner was almost conscientiously familiar. It was as impossible to imagine her ever vaguely sighing as to imagine a letter posted without its address. The Countess could not but feel that the correspondent of the Interviewer was much more in the movement than the American Corinne. She explained that she had called on the Countess because she was the only person she knew in Florence, and that when she visited a foreign city she liked to see something more than superficial travellers. She knew Mrs. Touchett, but Mrs. Touchett was in America, and even if she had been in Florence Henrietta would not have put herself out for her, since Mrs. Touchett was not one of her admirations.
在她动身前往罗马的前几天，一名仆人给她带来了一张访客卡，上面简单地写着“亨利埃塔·C·斯塔克波尔”。她不记得自己认识这样的亨利埃塔。仆人接着说，这位女士要求他说，如果伯爵夫人不认识她的名字，她一见到她就会很了解她。当她出现在客人面前时，她实际上已经提醒自己，图切特夫人家曾经有一位文学女士；她遇到过的唯一一位文学女性——也是唯一一位现代女性，因为她是一位已故女诗人的女儿。她立刻就认出了斯塔克波尔小姐，而且斯塔克波尔小姐看上去完全没有改变。伯爵夫人心地善良，认为受到这样一位杰出人物的拜访是相当不错的。她想知道斯塔克波尔小姐是不是因为她母亲的缘故才来的——她是否听说过美国的科琳娜。她的母亲一点也不像伊莎贝尔的朋友。伯爵夫人一眼就看出这位女士更加现代。她感受到了文学女士的品格（职业品格）正在发生的改善——主要是在遥远的国家。她的母亲习惯于系一条罗马围巾，披在双肩上，双肩上的黑色紧身天鹅绒胆怯地裸露着（哦，旧衣服！还有金色的月桂花环，戴在许多光滑的小卷发上。她轻声而含糊地说：正如她一直承认的那样，她的口音带有她的“克里奥尔”祖先的口音；她叹了口气，一点也没有进取心。 但伯爵夫人看得出来，亨利埃塔总是把扣子扣得很紧，辫子也扎得紧紧的。她的外表显得活泼而有条理。她的举止几乎是非常熟悉的。无法想象她会含糊地叹息，就像无法想象一封没有地址的信被寄出一样。伯爵夫人不禁觉得，《采访者》的通讯员比美国的科琳娜更热衷于运动。她解释说，她拜访伯爵夫人是因为她是她在佛罗伦萨唯一认识的人，当她访问外国城市时，她喜欢看到的不仅仅是肤浅的旅行者。她认识图切特夫人，但图切特夫人在美国，即使她在佛罗伦萨，亨利埃塔也不会为她付出一切，因为图切特夫人不是她的仰慕者之一。

‘Do you mean by that that I am?’ the Countess graciously asked.
“你的意思是我就是这样吗？”伯爵夫人和蔼地问道。

‘Well, I like you better than I do her,’ said Miss Stackpole. ‘I seem to remember that when I saw you before you were very interesting. I don’t know whether it was an accident or whether it’s your usual style. At any rate I was a good deal struck with what you said. I made use of it afterwards in print.’
“嗯，我比喜欢她更喜欢你，”斯塔克波尔小姐说。 ‘我好像记得以前见到你的时候，你很有趣。不知道是意外还是你一贯的风格。无论如何，你说的话让我很受触动。我后来在印刷中使用了它。

‘Dear me!’ cried the Countess, staring and half alarmed; ‘I had no idea I ever said anything remarkable! I wish I had known it at the time.’
“天啊！”伯爵夫人喊道，她瞪着眼睛，有些惊慌。 “我不知道我曾经说过什么了不起的话！我希望我当时就知道这一点。

‘It was about the position of woman in this city,’ Miss Stackpole remarked. ‘You threw a good deal of light upon it.’
“这关系到女性在这座城市的地位，”斯塔克波尔小姐说道。 “你对此做了很多阐述。”

‘The position of woman’s very uncomfortable. Is that what you mean? And you wrote it down and published it?’ the Countess went on. ‘Ah, do let me see it!’
“女人的地位很不舒服。你是这个意思吗？你把它写下来并出版了？”伯爵夫人继续说道。 “啊，让我看看吧！”

‘I’ll write to them to send you the paper if you like,’ Henrietta said. ‘I didn’t mention your name; I only said a lady of high rank. And then I quoted your views.’
“如果你愿意的话，我会写信给他们，把论文寄给你，”亨丽埃塔说。 “我没有提到你的名字；我只说一位地位很高的女士。然后我引用了你的观点。

The Countess threw herself hastily backward, tossing up her clasped hands. ‘Do you know I’m rather sorry you didn’t mention my name? I should have rather liked to see my name in the papers. I forget what my views were; I have so many! But I’m not ashamed of them. I’m not at all like my brother-I suppose you know my brother? He thinks it a kind of scandal to be put in the papers; if you were to quote him he’d never forgive you.
伯爵夫人急忙向后倒去，举起紧握的双手。 “你知道我很遗憾你没有提到我的名字吗？我应该更愿意看到我的名字出现在报纸上。我忘记了我的观点是什么；我有这么多！但我并不以他们为耻。我一点也不像我的兄弟——我想你认识我的兄弟吧？他认为登上报纸是一种丑闻；如果你引用他的话，他永远不会原谅你。

‘He needn’t be afraid; I shall never refer to him,’ said Miss Stackpole with bland dryness. ‘That’s another reason,’ she added, ‘why I wanted to come to see you. You know Mr. Osmond married my dearest friend.’
‘他不必害怕；我永远不会提及他。”斯塔克波尔小姐语气平淡地干巴巴地说。 “这也是我想来看你的另一个原因，”她补充道。你知道奥斯蒙德先生娶了我最亲爱的朋友。

‘Ah, yes; you were a friend of Isabel’s. I was trying to think what I knew about you.’
'是啊;你是伊莎贝尔的朋友。我试图思考我对你的了解。

quite willing to be known by that,’ Henrietta declared. ‘But that isn’t what your brother likes to know me by. He has tried to break up my relations with Isabel.’
“我非常愿意被人知道，”亨利埃塔宣称。 “但这不是你哥哥喜欢了解我的方式。他试图破坏我和伊莎贝尔的关系。

‘Don’t permit it,’ said the Countess.
“不允许这样做，”伯爵夫人说。

‘That’s what I want to talk about. I’m going to Rome.’
‘这就是我想谈的。我要去罗马。

‘So am I!’ the Countess cried. ‘We’ll go together.’
“我也是！”伯爵夫人喊道。 “我们一起去。”

‘With great pleasure. And when I write about my journey I’ll mention you by name as my companion.’
'非常荣幸。当我写下我的旅程时，我会提到你作为我的同伴的名字。

The Countess sprang from her chair and came and sat on the sofa beside her visitor. ‘Ah, you must send me the paper! My husband won’t like it, but he need never see it. Besides, he doesn’t know how to read.’
伯爵夫人从椅子上跳起来，来到访客旁边的沙发上坐下。 ‘啊，你必须把论文寄给我！我丈夫不会喜欢它，但他永远不需要看到它。此外，他不知道如何读书。

Henrietta’s large eyes became immense. ‘Doesn’t know how to read?
亨丽埃塔的大眼睛变得无比巨大。 ‘不知道怎么读书？

May I put that into my letter?
我可以把它写进我的信里吗？

‘Into your letter?’
“写在你的信里？”

‘In the Interviewer. That’s my paper.’
‘在采访者中。那是我的论文。

‘Oh yes, if you like; with his name. Are you going to stay with Isabel?’
“哦，是的，如果你愿意的话；和他的名字。你要和伊莎贝尔住在一起吗？

Henrietta held up her head, gazing a little in silence at her hostess. ‘She has not asked me. I wrote to her I was coming, and she answered that she would engage a room for me at a pension. She gave no reason.’
亨丽埃塔抬起头，沉默地凝视着女主人。 ‘她没有问过我。我写信给她我要来，她回答说她会在养老金中为我订一个房间。她没有给出任何理由。

The Countess listened with extreme interest. ‘The reason’s Osmond,’ she pregnantly remarked.
伯爵夫人饶有兴趣地听着。 “原因是奥斯蒙德，”她意味深长地说。

‘Isabel ought to make a stand,’ said Miss Stackpole. ‘I’m afraid she has changed a great deal. I told her she would.’
“伊莎贝尔应该表明立场，”斯塔克波尔小姐说。 ‘恐怕她已经改变了很多。我告诉她她会的。

‘I’m sorry to hear it; I hoped she would have her own way. Why doesn’t my brother like you?’ the Countess ingenuously added.
“我很遗憾听到这个消息；我希望她能有自己的路。为什么我哥哥不喜欢你？”伯爵夫人天真地补充道。

‘I don’t know and I don’t care. He’s perfectly welcome not to like me; I don’t want every one to like me; I should think less of myself if some people did. A journalist can’t hope to do much good unless he gets a good deal hated; that’s the way he knows how his work goes on. And it’s just the same for a lady. But I didn’t expect it of Isabel.’
“我不知道，也不关心。他不喜欢我是完全受欢迎的；我不希望每个人都喜欢我；如果有人这么做的话，我就应该少考虑一下自己。一名记者除非遭到很多人的憎恨，否则他不可能做太多好事。这就是他知道他的工作如何进行的方式。对于一位女士来说也是如此。但我没想到伊莎贝尔会这样。”

‘Do you mean that she hates you?’ the Countess enquired.
“你的意思是她恨你？”伯爵夫人问道。

‘I don’t know; I want to see. That’s what I’m going to Rome for.’ ‘Dear me, what a tiresome errand!’ the Countess exclaimed.
'我不知道;我想看看。 “天哪，这是多么令人厌烦的差事啊！”伯爵夫人惊呼道。

‘She doesn’t write to me in the same way; it’s easy to see there’s a difference. If you know anything,’ Miss Stackpole went on, ‘I should like to hear it beforehand, so as to decide on the line I shall take.’
“她不会用同样的方式给我写信；她不会用同样的方式给我写信。”很容易看出差异。如果你知道什么，”斯塔克波尔小姐继续说道，“我想提前听听，以便决定我要采取的路线。”

The Countess thrust out her under lip and gave a gradual shrug. ‘I know very little; I see and hear very little of Osmond. He doesn’t like me any better than he appears to like you.’
伯爵夫人伸出嘴唇，缓缓耸耸肩。 “我知道的很少；我很少见到和听到奥斯蒙德。他并不像喜欢你那样喜欢我。”

‘Yet you’re not a lady correspondent,’ said Henrietta pensively.
“但你不是女记者，”亨丽埃塔若有所思地说。

‘Oh, he has plenty of reasons. Nevertheless they’ve invited me-I’m to stay in the house!’ And the Countess smiled almost fiercely; her exultation, for the moment, took little account of Miss Stackpole’s disappointment.
‘哦，他有很多理由。尽管如此，他们还是邀请了我——我要留在家里！”伯爵夫人笑得近乎凶狠。她此刻的狂喜几乎没有考虑到斯塔克波尔小姐的失望。

This lady, however, regarded it very placidly. ‘I shouldn’t have gone if she had asked me. That is I think I shouldn’t; and I’m glad I hadn’t to make up my mind. It would have been a very difficult question. I shouldn’t have liked to turn away from her, and yet I shouldn’t have been happy under her roof. A pension will suit me very well. But that’s not all.’
然而这位女士却看得十分平静。 “如果她问我的话，我就不应该走。那是我认为我不应该；我很高兴我没有下定决心。这将是一个非常困难的问题。我不应该离开她，但我也不应该在她的屋檐下快乐。养老金非常适合我。但这还不是全部。

‘Rome’s very good just now,’ said the Countess; ‘there are all sorts of brilliant people. Did you ever hear of Lord Warburton?’
“罗马现在很好，”伯爵夫人说。 ‘有各种各样的才华横溢的人。你听说过沃伯顿勋爵吗？

‘Hear of him? I know him very well. Do you consider him very brilliant?’ Henrietta enquired.
‘听说过他吗？我很了解他。你认为他非常聪明吗？”亨利埃塔问道。

‘I don’t know him, but I’m told he’s extremely grand seigneur. He’s making love to Isabel.’
“我不认识他，但我听说他是一位极其伟大的领主。他正在和伊莎贝尔做爱。

‘Making love to her?’
“和她做爱吗？”

‘So I’m told; I don’t know the details,’ said the Countess lightly. ‘But Isabel’s pretty safe.’
‘有人告诉我；详情我不知道。”伯爵夫人淡淡地说。 “但伊莎贝尔很安全。”

Henrietta gazed earnestly at her companion; for a moment she said nothing. ‘When do you go to Rome?’ she enquired abruptly.
亨丽埃塔认真地看着她的同伴。有一会儿她什么也没说。 “你什么时候去罗马？”她突然问道。

‘Not for a week, I’m afraid.’
“恐怕一个星期都不会。”

‘I shall go to-morrow,’ Henrietta said. ‘I think I had better not wait.’
“我明天就去，”亨丽埃塔说。 “我想我最好不要等待。”

‘Dear me, I’m sorry; I’m having some dresses made. I’m told Isabel receives immensely. But I shall see you there; I shall call on you at your pension.’ Henrietta sat still-she was lost in thought; and suddenly the Countess cried: ‘Ah, but if you don’t go with me you can’t describe our journey!’
‘亲爱的我，对不起；我正在做一些衣服。我听说伊莎贝尔得到了巨大的回报。但我会在那里见到你； “我会去你的养老金处拜访你。”亨利埃塔一动不动地坐着——她陷入了沉思。伯爵夫人突然喊道：“啊，但是如果你不跟我一起去，你就无法描述我们的旅程！”

Miss Stackpole seemed unmoved by this consideration; she was thinking of something else and presently expressed it. ‘I’m not sure that I understand you about Lord Warburton.’
斯塔克波尔小姐似乎对这种考虑不为所动。她正在想别的事情，很快就表达了出来。 “我不确定我是否了解你对沃伯顿勋爵的了解。”

‘Understand me? I mean he’s very nice, that’s all.’
'明白我？我的意思是他非常好，仅此而已。

‘Do you consider it nice to make love to married women?’ Henrietta enquired with unprecedented distinctness.
“你认为和已婚女人做爱很好吗？”亨丽埃塔前所未有地清晰地问道。

The Countess stared, and then with a little violent laugh: ‘It’s certain all the nice men do it. Get married and you’ll see!’ she added.
伯爵夫人瞪大了眼睛，然后大笑起来：“肯定所有好男人都会这么做。”结婚吧，你就会看到！”她补充道。

‘That idea would be enough to prevent me,’ said Miss Stackpole. ‘I should want my own husband; I shouldn’t want any one else’s. Do you mean that Isabel’s guilty-guilty-?’ And she paused a little, choosing her expression.
“这个想法足以阻止我，”斯塔克波尔小姐说。 “我应该想要我自己的丈夫；我不应该想要别人的。你是说伊莎贝尔有罪吗——？”她停顿了一下，选择了自己的表情。

‘Do I mean she’s guilty? Oh dear no, not yet, I hope. I only mean that Osmond’s very tiresome and that Lord Warburton, as I hear, is a great deal at the house. I’m afraid you’re scandalized.’
‘我的意思是她有罪吗？哦天哪，不，我希望还没有。我只是说奥斯蒙德很烦人，而且据我所知，沃伯顿勋爵在家里很忙。我担心你会感到愤慨。

‘No, I’m just anxious,’ Henrietta said.
“不，我只是很焦虑，”亨利埃塔说。

‘Ah, you’re not very complimentary to Isabel! You should have more confidence. I’ll tell you,’ the Countess added quickly: ‘if it will be a comfort to you I engage to draw him off.’
“啊，你对伊莎贝尔不太恭维！你应该更有信心。我告诉你，”伯爵夫人很快补充道，“如果这能让你感到安慰，我会把他引走。”

Miss Stackpole answered at first only with the deeper solemnity of her gaze. ‘You don’t understand me,’ she said after a while. ‘I haven’t the idea you seem to suppose. I’m not afraid for Isabel-in that way. I’m only afraid she’s unhappy-that’s what I want to get at.’
斯塔克波尔小姐一开始只是用更加严肃的目光回答。 “你不理解我，”过了一会儿她说道。 “我不知道你的想法。”我不担心伊莎贝尔——就这样。我只是担心她不高兴——这就是我想要表达的意思。

The Countess gave a dozen turns of the head; she looked impatient and sarcastic. ‘That may very well be; for my part I should like to know whether Osmond is.’ Miss Stackpole had begun a little to bore her.
伯爵夫人转过十几次头。她看上去很不耐烦，还带着讽刺的意味。 ‘很可能是这样；就我而言，我想知道奥斯蒙德是否是。”斯塔克波尔小姐开始有点厌烦了。

‘If she’s really changed that must be at the bottom of it,’ Henrietta went on.
“如果她真的改变了，那一定是根本原因，”亨利埃塔继续说道。

‘You’ll see; she’ll tell you,’ said the Countess.
'你会看到的; “她会告诉你的。”伯爵夫人说道。

‘Ah, she may not tell me-that’s what I’m afraid of!’ ‘Well, if Osmond isn’t amusing himself-in his own old way-I flatter myself I shall discover it,’ the Countess rejoined.
“啊，她可能不会告诉我——这就是我所害怕的！”

‘I don’t care for that,’ said Henrietta.
“我不在乎这个，”亨丽埃塔说。

‘I do immensely! If Isabel’s unhappy I’m very sorry for her, but I can’t help it. I might tell her something that would make her worse, but I can’t tell her anything that would console her. What did she go and marry him for? If she had listened to me she’d have got rid of him. I’ll forgive her, however, if I find she has made things hot for him! If she has simply allowed him to trample upon her I don’t know that I shall even pity her. But I don’t think that’s very likely. I count upon finding that if she’s miserable she has at least made him so.’
‘我非常愿意！如果伊莎贝尔不开心，我很为她感到难过，但我无能为力。我可能会告诉她一些会让她变得更糟的事情，但我不能告诉她任何可以安慰她的事情。她嫁给他是为了什么？如果她听我的话，她就会摆脱他。不过，如果我发现她让他变得很热心，我会原谅她！如果她只是任由他践踏，我不知道我还会可怜她。但我认为这不太可能。我指望发现，如果她很痛苦，至少是她让他变得如此。

Henrietta got up; these seemed to her, naturally, very dreadful expectations. She honestly believed she had no desire to see Mr. Osmond unhappy; and indeed he could not be, for her the subject of a flight of fancy. She was on the whole rather disappointed in the Countess, whose mind moved in a narrower circle than she had imagined, though with a capacity for coarseness even there. ‘It will be better if they love each other,’ she said for edification.
亨利埃塔站了起来。当然，这些对她来说似乎是非常可怕的期望。老实说，她相信她不想看到奥斯蒙德先生不高兴；她不想看到奥斯蒙德先生不高兴。事实上，对于她来说，他不可能是一个幻想的对象。总的来说，她对伯爵夫人相当失望，伯爵夫人的思想范围比她想象的要窄，尽管她也有粗俗的一面。她说：“如果他们彼此相爱，那就更好了。”

‘They can’t. He can’t love any one.’
‘他们不能。他不能爱任何人。

‘I presumed that was the case. But it only aggravates my fear for Isabel.
“我以为情况就是这样。但这只会加剧我对伊莎贝尔的恐惧。

I shall positively start to-morrow.’
我明天就会积极开始。

‘Isabel certainly has devotees,’ said the Countess, smiling very vividly.
“伊莎贝尔当然有信徒，”伯爵夫人微笑着说道。

‘I declare I don’t pity her.’
“我声明我不可怜她。”

‘It may be I can’t assist her,’ Miss Stackpole pursued, as if it were well not to have illusions.
“也许我帮不了她，”斯塔克波尔小姐继续说道，仿佛最好不要抱有幻想。

‘You can have wanted to, at any rate; that’s something. I believe that’s what you came from America for,’ the Countess suddenly added.
“无论如何，你可能想要这么做；就是这样。我相信这就是你从美国来的目的。”伯爵夫人突然补充道。

‘Yes, I wanted to look after her,’ Henrietta said serenely.
“是的，我想照顾她，”亨利埃塔平静地说。

Her hostess stood there smiling at her with small bright eyes and an eager-looking nose; with cheeks into each of which a flush had come. ‘Ah, that’s very pretty—c’est bien gentil! Isn’t it what they call friendship?’
她的女主人站在那里，用明亮的小眼睛和热切的鼻子对她微笑。双颊都泛起了红晕。 “啊，那真是太漂亮了——c'est bien gentil！”这不就是他们所谓的友谊吗？

‘I don’t know what they call it. I thought I had better come.’
‘我不知道他们怎么称呼它。我想我最好还是来一下。

‘She’s very happy-she’s very fortunate,’ the Countess went on. ‘She has others besides.’ And then she broke out passionately. ‘She’s more fortunate than I! I’m as unhappy as she-I’ve a very bad husband; he’s a great deal worse than Osmond. And I’ve no friends. I thought I had, but they’re gone. No one, man or woman, would do for me what you’ve done for her.’
“她很高兴——她很幸运，”伯爵夫人继续说道。 “除此之外，她还有其他人。”然后她热情地爆发了。 ‘她比我幸运！我和她一样不快乐——我有一个很糟糕的丈夫；他比奥斯蒙德差很多。而且我没有朋友。我以为我有，但他们已经走了。没有人，无论男人还是女人，会为我做你为她所做的事情。”

Henrietta was touched; there was nature in this bitter effusion. She gazed at her companion a moment, and then: ‘Look here, Countess, I’ll do anything for you that you like. I’ll wait over and travel with you.’
亨丽埃塔很感动；这苦涩的流露中蕴含着自然。她凝视了她的同伴一会儿，然后说道：“听着，伯爵夫人，我愿意为你做任何你喜欢的事情。”我会等你并和你一起旅行。

‘Never mind,’ the Countess answered with a quick change of tone: only describe me in the newspaper!’
“没关系，”伯爵夫人迅速改变语气回答道：只要在报纸上描述我就可以了！

Henrietta, before leaving her, however, was obliged to make her understand that she could give no fictitious representation of her journey to Rome. Miss Stackpole was a strictly veracious reporter. On quitting her she took the way to the Lung’ Arno, the sunny quay beside the yellow river where the bright-faced inns familiar to tourists stand all in a row. She had learned her way before this through the streets of Florence (she was very quick in such matters), and was therefore able to turn with great decision of step out of the little square which forms the approach to the bridge of the Holy Trinity. She proceeded to the left, toward the Ponte Vecchio, and stopped in front of one of the hotels which overlook that delightful structure. Here she drew forth a small pocket-book, took from it a card and a pencil and, after meditating a moment, wrote a few words. It is our privilege to look over her shoulder, and if we exercise it we may read the brief query: ‘Could I see you this evening for a few moments on a very important matter?’ Henrietta added that she should start on the morrow for Rome. Armed with this little document she approached the porter, who now had taken up his station in the doorway, and asked if Mr. Goodwood were at home. The porter replied, as porters always reply, that he had gone out about twenty minutes before; whereupon Henrietta presented her card and begged it might be handed him on his return. She left the inn and pursued her course along the quay to the severe portico of the Uffizi, through which she presently reached the entrance of the famous gallery of paintings. Making her way in, she ascended the high staircase which leads to the upper chambers. The long corridor, glazed on one side and decorated with antique busts, which gives admission to these apartments, presented an empty vista in which the bright winter light twinkled upon the marble floor. The gallery is very cold and during the midwinter weeks but scantily visited. Miss Stackpole may appear more ardent in her quest of artistic beauty than she has hitherto struck us as being, but she had after all her preferences and admirations. One of the latter was the little Correggio of the Tribune-the Virgin kneeling down before the sacred infant, who lies in a litter of straw, and clapping her hands to him while he delightedly laughs and crows. Henrietta had a special devotion to this intimate scene-she thought it the most beautiful picture in the world. On her way, at present, from New York to Rome, she was spending but three days in Florence, and yet reminded herself that they must not elapse without her paying another visit to her favourite work of art. She had a great sense of beauty in all ways, and it involved a good many intellectual obligations. She was about to turn into the Tribune when a gentleman came out of it; whereupon she gave a little exclamation and stood before Caspar Goodwood.
然而，亨利埃塔在离开她之前，不得不让她明白，她不能虚构自己前往罗马的旅程。斯塔克波尔小姐是一位非常诚实的记者。离开她后，她朝龙阿诺走去，那是黄河边阳光明媚的码头，游客们熟悉的光鲜亮丽的旅馆鳞次栉比。在此之前，她已经在佛罗伦萨的街道上学会了自己的路（她在这些事情上很快），因此能够以重大的决定转身走出构成通往圣三一桥的小广场。她向左行驶，朝韦奇奥桥方向行驶，在一家旅馆前停了下来，从那里可以俯瞰这座令人愉悦的建筑。她拿出一个小皮夹，从里面拿出一张卡片和一支铅笔，沉思了一会儿，写了几个字。我们很荣幸能站在她身后，如果我们行使这一权利，我们可能会读到简短的询问：“今晚我能就一件非常重要的事情见你一会儿吗？”亨利埃塔补充说，她应该在明天开始罗马。她拿着这份小文件，走到门房前，问古德伍德先生是否在家。门房现在已经在门口站岗了。门房回答说，正如门房们总是回答的那样，他大约二十分钟前就出去了。于是，亨利埃塔出示了她的名片，并请求他回来时将其交给他。她离开旅馆，沿着码头前往乌菲兹美术馆的严肃门廊，很快就到达了著名画馆的入口。她走进去，登上通往楼上房间的高楼梯。 长长的走廊一侧装有玻璃，装饰着古董半身像，可通往这些公寓，呈现出一幅空旷的景色，明亮的冬光在大理石地板上闪烁。画廊在仲冬的几周里非常寒冷，但参观人数很少。斯塔克波尔小姐对艺术美的追求可能比我们迄今为止想象的更加热情，但她毕竟有自己的喜好和钦佩。其中一个就是《论坛报》的小科雷吉奥——圣母跪在躺在一堆稻草上的神圣婴儿面前，向他拍手，而他则高兴地大笑和啼叫。亨利埃塔对这个亲密的场景有着特殊的热爱——她认为这是世界上最美丽的图画。目前，从纽约到罗马，她在佛罗伦萨只呆了三天，但她提醒自己，如果没有再次参观她最喜欢的艺术作品，就不能错过这三天。她在各方面都具有很强的美感，这涉及到许多智力义务。她正要走进论坛报，这时一位绅士从里面走了出来。于是她发出一声惊叹，站到了卡斯帕·古德伍德面前。

‘I’ve just been at your hotel,’ she said. ‘I left a card for you.’
“我刚刚去过你们的旅馆，”她说。 “我给你留了一张卡片。”

‘I’m very much honoured,’ Caspar Goodwood answered as if he really meant it.
“我非常荣幸，”卡斯帕·古德伍德回答道，就好像他是认真的一样。

‘It was not to honour you I did it; I’ve called on you before and I know you don’t like it. It was to talk to you a little about something.’
“我这么做并不是为了向你致敬；我以前曾拜访过你，我知道你不喜欢这样。是想和你谈谈一些事情。

He looked for a moment at the buckle in her hat. ‘I shall be very glad to hear what you wish to say.’
他看了一会儿她帽子上的带扣。 “我很高兴听到你想说的话。”

‘You don’t like to talk with me,’ said Henrietta. ‘But I don’t care for that; I don’t talk for your amusement. I wrote a word to ask you to come and see me; but since I’ve met you here this will do as well.’
“你不喜欢和我说话，”亨丽埃塔说。 “但我不在乎这个；我不在乎。”我说话不是为了让你开心。我写了一句话，请你来见我；但既然我在这里遇见了你，这也行。

‘I was just going away,’ Goodwood stated; ‘but of course I’ll stop.’ He was civil, but not enthusiastic.
“我正要离开，”古德伍德说道。 “但我当然会停下来。”他很客气，但并不热情。

Henrietta, however, never looked for great professions, and she was so much in earnest that she was thankful he would listen to her on any terms. She asked him first, none the less, if he had seen all the pictures.
然而，亨利埃塔从来没有寻找过伟大的职业，她是如此真诚，以至于她很感激他能以任何条件倾听她的意见。尽管如此，她还是先问他是否看过所有的照片。

‘All I want to. I’ve been here an hour.’
'这都是我想要的。我已经在这里一个小时了。

‘I wonder if you’ve seen my Correggio,’ said Henrietta. ‘I came up on purpose to have a look at it.’ She went into the Tribune and he slowly accompanied her.
“我想知道你是否见过我的科雷吉奥，”亨利埃塔说。 “我是特意过来看看的。”她走进论坛报，他慢慢陪着她。

‘I suppose I’ve seen it, but I didn’t know it was yours. I don’t remember pictures-especially that sort.’ She had pointed out her favourite work, and he asked her if it was about Correggio she wished to talk with him.
“我想我见过它，但我不知道它是你的。我不记得照片了——尤其是那种。”她指出了她最喜欢的作品，他问她是否想和他谈谈关于科雷乔的作品。

‘No,’ said Henrietta, it’s about something less harmonious!’ They the small, brilliant room, a splendid cabinet of treasures, to themselves; there was only a custode hovering about the Medicean Venus. ‘I want you to do me a favour,’ Miss Stackpole went on.
“不，”亨丽埃塔说，这是关于一些不和谐的事情！只有一个监护人徘徊在美第奇维纳斯周围。 “我想让你帮我一个忙，”斯塔克波尔小姐继续说道。

Caspar Goodwood frowned a little, but he expressed no embarrassment at the sense of not looking eager. His face was that of a much older man than our earlier friend. ‘I’m sure it’s something I shan’t like,’ he said rather loudly.
卡斯帕·古德伍德微微皱起眉头，但他并没有因为自己看起来不急切而感到尴尬。他的脸比我们之前的朋友年长得多。 “我确信这是我不喜欢的事情，”他相当大声地说。

‘No, I don’t think you’ll like it. If you did it would be no favour.’
‘不，我想你不会喜欢它。如果你这样做了，那就没有什么好处了。

‘Well, let’s hear it,’ he went on in the tone of a man quite conscious of his patience.
“好吧，让我们听听吧，”他用一种非常有耐心的语气继续说道。

‘You may say there’s no particular reason why you should do me a favour. Indeed I only know of one: the fact that if you’d let me I’d gladly do you one.’ Her soft, exact tone, in which there was no attempt at effect, had an extreme sincerity; and her companion, though he presented rather a hard surface, couldn’t help being touched by it. When he was touched he rarely showed it, however, by the usual signs; he neither blushed, nor looked away, nor looked conscious. He only fixed his attention more directly; he seemed to consider with added firmness. Henrietta continued therefore disinterestedly, without the sense of an advantage. ‘I may say now, indeed-it seems a good time-that if I’ve ever annoyed you (and I think sometimes I have) it’s because I knew I was willing to suffer annoyance for you. I’ve troubled you—doubtless. But I’d take trouble for you.’
“你可能会说，没有什么特别的理由为什么你应该帮我一个忙。事实上，我只知道一个：如果你让我做，我很乐意为你做一个。”她的语气柔和而准确，没有任何效果，却有一种极其真诚的感觉；而她的同伴，表面虽然坚硬，却忍不住被触动。然而，当他被触碰时，他很少会通过通常的迹象表现出来。他既没有脸红，也没有移开视线，看上去也没有意识。他只是更加直接地集中注意力；他似乎更加坚定地考虑着。亨丽埃塔因此无私地继续说道，没有任何占优势的感觉。 “我现在确实可以说——这似乎是个好时机——如果我曾经惹恼过你（我想有时我确实如此），那是因为我知道我愿意为你承受烦恼。毫无疑问，我给你带来了麻烦。但我愿意为你添麻烦。

Goodwood hesitated. ‘You’re taking trouble now.’
古德伍德犹豫了。 “你现在有麻烦了。”

‘Yes, I am-some. I want you to consider whether it’s better on the whole that you should go to Rome.’
“是的，我是——一些。”我希望你考虑一下，总的来说，你是否应该去罗马更好。”

‘I thought you were going to say that!’ he answered rather artlessly. ‘You have considered it then?’
“我以为你会这么说！”他相当天真地回答道。 “那你考虑过了吗？”

‘Of course I have, very carefully. I’ve looked all round it. Otherwise I shouldn’t have come so far as this. That’s what I stayed in Paris two months for. I was thinking it over.’
“当然，我非常小心。我已经环顾四周了。否则我不应该走到这一步。这就是我在巴黎待了两个月的原因。我正在考虑。

‘I’m afraid you decided as you liked. You decided it was best because you were so much attracted.’
‘恐怕你已经做出了你喜欢的决定。你认为这是最好的，因为你被如此吸引。

‘Best for whom, do you mean?’ Goodwood demanded.
“你的意思是对谁最好？”古德伍德问道。

‘Well, for yourself first. For Mrs. Osmond next.’
‘好吧，首先是为了你自己。接下来是奥斯蒙德夫人。

‘Oh, it won’t do her any good! I don’t flatter myself that.’
‘哦，这对她没有任何好处！我不这么自以为是。

‘Won’t it do her some harm?-that’s the question.’
“这不会对她造成伤害吗？——这就是问题所在。”

‘I don’t see what it will matter to her. I’m nothing to Mrs. Osmond.
“我不明白这对她来说有什么关系。我对奥斯蒙德夫人来说什么都不是。

But if you want to know, I do want to see her myself.’
但如果你想知道的话，我确实想亲自见见她。”

‘Yes, and that’s why you go.’
“是的，这就是你走的原因。”

‘Of course it is. Could there be a better reason?’
'当然如此。还有更好的理由吗？

‘How will it help you?-that’s what I want to know,’ said Miss Stackpole.
“这对你有什么帮助？——这就是我想知道的，”斯塔克波尔小姐说。

‘That’s just what I can’t tell you. It’s just what I was thinking about in Paris.’
‘这就是我不能告诉你的。这正是我在巴黎时所想的。

‘It will make you more discontented.’
“这会让你更加不满。”

‘Why do you say ‘more’ so?’ Goodwood asked rather sternly. ‘How do you know I’m discontented?’
“你为什么这么说‘更多’？”古德伍德相当严厉地问道。 “你怎么知道我不满意？”

‘Well,’ said Henrietta, hesitating a little, ‘you seem never to have cared for another.’
“好吧，”亨丽埃塔犹豫了一下，说道，“你似乎从来没有关心过别人。”

‘How do you know what I care for?’ he cried with a big blush. ‘Just now I care to go to Rome.’
“你怎么知道我在乎什么？”他满脸通红地喊道。 “我现在想去罗马。”

Henrietta looked at him in silence, with a sad yet luminous expression. ‘Well,’ she observed at last, ‘I only wanted to tell you what I think; I had it on my mind. Of course you think it’s none of my business. But nothing is any one’s business on that principle.’
亨丽埃塔默默地看着他，表情悲伤却又明亮。 “好吧，”她最后说道，“我只是想告诉你我的想法；我心里有这个想法。你当然认为这不关我的事。但根据这一原则，任何人都无所谓。”

‘It’s very kind of you; I’m greatly obliged to you for your interest,’ said Caspar Goodwood. ‘I shall go to Rome and I shan’t hurt Mrs. Osmond.’
“你真是太好了；我非常感谢您的关注，”卡斯帕·古德伍德说道。 “我要去罗马，我不会伤害奥斯蒙德夫人。”

‘You won’t hurt her, perhaps. But will you help her?-that’s the real issue.’
“也许你不会伤害她。但你会帮助她吗？——这才是真正的问题。

‘Is she in need of help?’ he asked slowly, with a penetrating look.
“她需要帮助吗？”他缓慢地问道，目光锐利。

‘Most women always are,’ said Henrietta with conscientious evasiveness and generalizing less hopefully than usual. ‘If you go to Rome,’ she added, ‘I hope you’ll be a true friend-not a selfish one!’ And she turned off and began to look at the pictures.
“大多数女人总是这样，”亨丽埃塔认真地回避说，并且比平常更不抱希望地概括。 “如果你去罗马，”她补充道，“我希望你会成为一个真正的朋友，而不是一个自私的朋友！”然后她关掉电源，开始看那些照片。

Caspar Goodwood let her go and stood watching her while she wandered round the room; but after a moment he rejoined her. ‘You’ve heard something about her here,’ he then resumed. ‘I should like to know what you’ve heard.’
卡斯帕·古德伍德放开她，站在那儿看着她在房间里走来走去。但过了一会儿他又回到了她身边。 “你在这里听说过一些关于她的事情，”他接着说道。 “我想知道你听到了什么。”

Henrietta had never prevaricated in her life, and, though on this occasion there might have been a fitness in doing so, she decided, after thinking some minutes, to make no superficial exception. ‘Yes, I’ve heard,’ she answered; ‘but as I don’t want you to go to Rome I won’t tell you.’
亨丽埃塔一生中从来没有搪塞过，虽然这一次可能适合这样做，但她在思考了几分钟后决定，表面上也不例外。 “是的，我听说了，”她回答道。 “但因为我不想让你去罗马，所以我不会告诉你。”

‘Just as you please. I shall see for myself,’ he said. Then inconsistently, for him, ‘You’ve heard she’s unhappy!’ he added.
‘随你便吧。我会亲自看看，”他说。然后，对他来说，不一致的是，“你听说她不开心！”他补充道。

‘Oh, you won’t see that!’ Henrietta exclaimed.
“哦，你不会看到的！”亨利埃塔惊呼道。

‘I hope not. When do you start?’
'我希望不是。你什么时候开始？

‘To-morrow, by the evening train. And you?’
“明天，乘晚班火车。你呢？'

Goodwood hung back; he had no desire to make his journey to Rome in Miss Stackpole’s company. His indifference to this advantage was not of the same character as Gilbert Osmond’s, but it had at this moment an equal distinctness. It was rather a tribute to Miss Stackpole’s virtues than a reference to her faults. He thought her very remarkable, very brilliant, and he had, in theory, no objection to the class to which she belonged. Lady correspondents appeared to him a part of the natural scheme of things in a progressive country, and though he never read their letters he supposed that they ministered somehow to social prosperity. But it was this very eminence of their position that made him wish Miss Stackpole didn’t take so much for granted. She took for granted that he was always ready for some allusion to Mrs. Osmond; she had done so when they met in Paris, six weeks after his arrival in Europe, and she had repeated the assumption with every successive opportunity. He had no wish whatever to allude to Mrs. Osmond; he was not always thinking of her; he was perfectly sure of that. He was the most reserved, the least colloquial of men, and this enquiring authoress was constantly flashing her lantern into the quiet darkness of his soul. He wished she didn’t care so much; he even wished, though it might seem rather brutal of him, that she would leave him alone. In spite of this, however, he just now made other reflections-which show how widely different, in effect, his ill-humour was from Gilbert Osmond’s. He desired to go immediately to Rome; he would have liked to go alone, in the night-train. He hated the European railway-carriages, in which one sat for hours in a vise, knee to knee and nose to nose with a foreigner to whom one presently found one’s self objecting with all the added vehemence of one’s wish to have the window open; and if they were worse at night even than by day, at least at night one could sleep and dream of an American saloon-car. But he couldn’t take a night-train when Miss Stackpole was starting in the morning; it struck him that this would be an insult to an unprotected woman. Nor could he wait until after she had gone unless he should wait longer than he had patience for. It wouldn’t do to start the next day. She worried him; she oppressed him; the idea of spending the day in a European railway-carriage with her offered a complication of irritations. Still, she was a lady travelling alone; it was his duty to put himself out for her. There could be no two questions about that; it was a perfectly clear necessity. He looked extremely grave for some moments and then said, wholly without the flourish of gallantry but in a tone of extreme distinctness, ‘Of course if you’re going to-morrow I’ll go too, as I may be of assistance to you.’
古德伍德犹豫不决。他不想在斯塔克波尔小姐的陪伴下前往罗马。他对这种优势的漠视与吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德不同，但此刻却同样明显。这更多是对斯塔克波尔小姐美德的赞扬，而不是对她的缺点的提及。他认为她非常了不起，非常聪明，理论上他对她所属的阶级没有异议。在他看来，女记者是一个进步国家中自然事物的一部分，尽管他从未读过她们的信，但他认为她们在某种程度上促进了社会繁荣。但正是他们地位的显赫让他希望斯塔克波尔小姐不要认为这是理所当然的。她理所当然地认为他总是准备好提及奥斯蒙德夫人。当他们在巴黎见面时，也就是他到达欧洲六周后，她就这样做了，并且她在每次有机会的时候都重复了这个假设。他不想提及奥斯蒙德夫人。他并不总是想着她；他对此深信不疑。他是最保守、最不口语的男人，而这位好奇的女作家不断地将她的灯笼照进他灵魂安静的黑暗中。他希望她别太在意。他甚至希望她不要打扰他，尽管这对他来说似乎相当残酷。然而，尽管如此，他刚才又做出了其他的思考——这表明他的坏脾气实际上与吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德的坏脾气有多么不同。他想立即前往罗马。他本来想一个人坐夜车去。 他讨厌欧洲的火车车厢，在火车车厢里，一个人在虎钳里坐上几个小时，与一个外国人膝盖对膝盖、鼻子对鼻子，很快人们就会发现自己在反对这个外国人，并且更加强烈地希望打开窗户；即使晚上比白天更糟糕，至少在晚上人们可以睡觉并梦见一辆美国轿车。但当斯塔克波尔小姐早上出发时，他不能乘坐夜车。他突然意识到这对一个没有保护的女人来说是一种侮辱。他也不能等到她走后，除非他等待的时间超出了他的耐心。第二天开始是不行的。她让他担心。她压迫他；和她一起在欧洲火车车厢里度过一天的想法让她感到更加恼火。尽管如此，她还是一位独自旅行的女士。他有责任为她竭尽全力。对此不可能有两个问题：这是非常明显的必要性。有一会儿他看上去非常严肃，然后说道，完全没有殷勤的表现，但语气却极其明确：“当然，如果你明天要去，我也会去，因为我可能会帮助你。” 。’

‘Well, Mr. Goodwood, I should hope so!’ Henrietta returned imperturbably.
“好吧，古德伍德先生，我希望如此！”亨利埃塔平静地回答道。

Chapter 45
第45章

I have already had reason to say that Isabel knew her husband to be displeased by the continuance of Ralph’s visit to Rome. That knowledge was very present to her as she went to her cousin’s hotel the day after she had invited Lord Warburton to give a tangible proof of his sincerity; and at this moment, as at others, she had a sufficient perception of the sources of Osmond’s opposition. He wished her to have no freedom of mind, and he knew perfectly well that Ralph was an apostle of freedom. It was just because he was this, Isabel said to herself, that it was a refreshment to go and see him. It will be perceived that she partook of this refreshment in spite of her husband’s aversion to it, that is partook of it, as she flattered herself, discreetly. She had not as yet undertaken to act in direct opposition to his wishes; he was her appointed and inscribed master; she gazed at moments with a sort of incredulous blankness at this fact. It weighed upon her imagination, however; constantly present to her mind were all the traditionary decencies and sanctities of marriage. The idea of violating them filled her with shame as well as with dread, for on giving herself away she had lost sight of this contingency in the perfect belief that her husband’s intentions were as generous as her own. She seemed to see, none the less, the rapid approach of the day when she should have to take back something she had solemnly bestown. Such a ceremony would be odious and monstrous; she tried to shut her eyes to it meanwhile. Osmond would do nothing to help it by beginning first; he would put that burden upon her to the end. He had not yet formally forbidden her to call upon Ralph; but she felt sure that unless Ralph should very soon depart this prohibition would come. How could poor Ralph depart? The weather as yet made it impossible. She could perfectly understand her husband’s wish for the event; she didn’t, to be just, see how he could like her to be with her cousin. Ralph never said a word against him, but Osmond’s sore, mute protest was none the less founded. If he should positively interpose, if he should put forth his authority, she would have to decide, and that wouldn’t be easy. The prospect made her heart beat and her cheeks burn, as I say, in advance; there were moments when, in her wish to avoid an open rupture, she found herself wishing Ralph would start even at a risk. And it was of no use that, when catching herself in this state of mind, she called herself a feeble spirit, a coward. It was not that she loved Ralph less, but that almost anything seemed preferable to repudiating the most serious act-the single sacred act-of her life. That appeared to make the whole future hideous. To break with Osmond once would be to break for ever; any open acknowledgement of irreconcilable needs would be an admission that their whole attempt had proved a failure. For them there could be no condonement, no compromise, no easy forgetfulness, no formal readjustment. They had attempted only one thing, but that one thing was to have been exquisite. Once they missed it nothing else would do; there was no conceivable substitute for that success. For the moment, Isabel went to the Hotel de Paris as often as she thought well; the measure of propriety was in the canon of taste, and there couldn’t have been a better proof that morality was, so to speak, a matter of earnest appreciation. Isabel’s application of that measure had been particularly free to-day, for in addition to the general truth that she couldn’t leave Ralph to die alone she had something important to ask of him. This indeed was Gilbert’s business as well as her own.
我已经有理由说，伊莎贝尔知道她的丈夫对拉尔夫继续访问罗马感到不满。当她邀请沃伯顿勋爵以切实的证据证明他的诚意后的第二天，当她前往表弟的旅馆时，她就知道了这一点。此时此刻，和其他时候一样，她对奥斯蒙德反对的根源有了足够的认识。他希望她没有思想自由，他很清楚拉尔夫是自由的使徒。正是因为他是这样的人，伊莎贝尔对自己说，去看他才让人心旷神怡。可以看出，尽管她的丈夫厌恶她，她还是享用了这种茶点，也就是说，她谨慎地沾沾自喜地享用了它。她还没有承诺采取直接违背他意愿的行动；他是她指定并铭刻的主人；她有时会带着一种难以置信的茫然看着这个事实。然而，这对她的想象力造成了压力。她脑海中不断浮现出婚姻中所有传统的礼仪和神圣之处。违反这些规定的想法让她感到羞愧和恐惧，因为在自暴自弃时，她完全相信她丈夫的意图和她自己的意图一样慷慨，而忽略了这种偶然性。尽管如此，她似乎还是看到了她必须收回她庄严赐予的东西的那一天很快就要到来了。这样的仪式是可憎的、可怕的。与此同时，她试图闭上眼睛。奥斯蒙德不会采取任何先行行动来帮助它。他会把这个负担一直压在她身上。他还没有正式禁止她拜访拉尔夫。但她确信，除非拉尔夫很快离开，否则这项禁令就会到来。 可怜的拉尔夫怎么会离开呢？天气还使它不可能。她非常理解丈夫对这次活动的愿望；老实说，她不明白他怎么会喜欢她和她的表弟在一起。拉尔夫从未对他说过一句话，但奥斯蒙德的痛苦、无声的抗议仍然是有根据的。如果他主动介入，如果他拿出自己的权威，她就必须做出决定，而这并不容易。正如我所说，这种前景让她心跳加速，脸颊烧灼。有时，为了避免公开的破裂，她发现自己希望拉尔夫即使冒着风险也能开始。当她陷入这种心态时，她称自己是一个软弱的人，一个胆小鬼，这是没有用的。这并不是说她对拉尔夫的爱减少了，而是说几乎任何事情似乎都比否认她一生中最严肃的行为——唯一神圣的行为更好。这似乎让整个未来变得可怕。与奥斯蒙德决裂一次，就永远决裂；任何对不可调和的需求的公开承认都将等于承认他们的整个尝试已被证明是失败的。对他们来说，不可能有任何宽恕，没有妥协，没有轻易遗忘，也没有正式的调整。他们只尝试了一件事，但那一件事必须是精致的。一旦他们错过了这一点，其他一切都无济于事；这一成功无可替代。目前，伊莎贝尔只要她认为合适就去巴黎饭店。礼节的衡量标准是品味的标准，没有更好的证据可以证明道德是一种真诚的欣赏。 伊莎贝尔今天特别自由地运用了这一措施，因为除了她不能让拉尔夫独自死去这一普遍事实之外，她还有一些重要的事情要问他。这确实是吉尔伯特的事，也是她自己的事。

She came very soon to what she wished to speak of. ‘I want you to answer me a question. It’s about Lord Warburton.’
她很快就谈到了她想说的事情。 ‘我要你回答我一个问题。这是关于沃伯顿勋爵的。

‘I think I guess your question,’ Ralph answered from his arm-chair, out of which his thin legs protruded at greater length than ever.
“我想我猜到了你的问题，”拉尔夫坐在扶手椅上回答，他的细腿从扶手椅中伸出来，比以往任何时候都更长。

‘Very possibly you guess it. Please then answer it.’
‘很可能你猜到了。请回答。

‘Oh, I don’t say I can do that.’
“哦，我没说我能做到。”

‘You’re intimate with him,’ she said; ‘you’ve a great deal of observation of him.’
“你和他很亲密，”她说。 “你对他有很多观察。”

‘Very true. But think how he must dissimulate!’
‘非常正确。但想想他必须如何掩饰！

‘Why should he dissimulate? That’s not his nature.’
‘他为什么要掩饰？那不是他的本性。

‘Ah, you must remember that the circumstances are peculiar,’ said Ralph with an air of private amusement.
“啊，你必须记住，情况很特殊，”拉尔夫带着私下里的好笑说道。

‘To a certain extent-yes. But is he really in love?’
‘在某种程度上——是的。但他真的恋爱了吗？

‘Very much, I think. I can make that out.’
“我想，非常喜欢。”我能弄清楚。

‘Ah!’ said Isabel with a certain dryness.
“啊！”伊莎贝尔语气有些干巴巴地说。

Ralph looked at her as if his mild hilarity had been touched with mystification. ‘You say that as if you were disappointed.’
拉尔夫看着她，仿佛他温和的欢笑中夹杂着一丝神秘。 “你说得好像你很失望一样。”

Isabel got up, slowly smoothing her gloves and eyeing them thoughtfully.
伊莎贝尔站起来，慢慢地抚平她的手套，若有所思地看着它们。

‘It’s after all no business of mine.’
“这毕竟不关我的事。”

‘You’re very philosophic,’ said her cousin. And then in a moment:
“你很有哲理，”她的表弟说。然后过了一会儿：

‘May I enquire what you’re talking about?’
“我可以问一下你在说什么吗？”

Isabel stared. ‘I thought you knew. Lord Warburton tells me he wants, of all things in the world, to marry Pansy. I’ve told you that before, without eliciting a comment from you. You might risk one this morning, I think. Is it your belief that he really cares for her?’
伊莎贝尔凝视着。 ‘我以为你知道。沃伯顿勋爵告诉我，他最想娶的是潘西。我之前已经告诉过你了，但没有引起你的评论。我想你今天早上可能会冒险一试。你相信他真的关心她吗？

‘Ah, for Pansy, no!’ cried Ralph very positively.
“啊，对于潘西来说，不！”拉尔夫非常肯定地喊道。

‘But you said just now he did.’
“但你刚才说他做到了。”

Ralph waited a moment. ‘That he cared for you, Mrs. Osmond.’
拉尔夫等了一会儿。 “他关心你，奥斯蒙德夫人。”

Isabel shook her head gravely. ‘That’s nonsense, you know.’
伊莎贝尔严肃地摇摇头。 “你知道，那是无稽之谈。”

‘Of course it is. But the nonsense is Warburton’s, not mine.’
'当然如此。但这是沃伯顿的废话，不是我的。”

‘That would be very tiresome.’ She spoke, as she flattered herself, with much subtlety.
“那会很烦人的。”她自言自语地说，语气十分微妙。

‘I ought to tell you indeed,’ Ralph went on, ‘that to me he has denied it.’
“我确实应该告诉你，”拉尔夫继续说道，“他对我否认了这一点。”

‘It’s very good of you to talk about it together! Has he also told you that he’s in love with Pansy?’
‘你们能一起谈论这件事真是太好了！他也告诉过你他爱上了潘西吗？

‘He has spoken very well of her-very properly. He has let me know, of course, that he thinks she would do very well at Lockleigh.’
“他对她的评价非常好——非常恰当。当然，他让我知道，他认为她在洛克利会做得很好。

‘Does he really think it?’
“他真的这么认为吗？”

‘Ah, what Warburton really thinks-!’ said Ralph.
“啊，沃伯顿到底是怎么想的——！”拉尔夫说。

Isabel fell to smoothing her gloves again; they were long, loose gloves on which she could freely expend herself. Soon, however, she looked up, and then, ‘Ah, Ralph, you give me no help!’ she cried abruptly and passionately.
伊莎贝尔又开始抚平她的手套。那是又长又宽松的手套，她可以在上面自由自在地戴上。然而很快，她抬起头来，然后，“啊，拉尔夫，你帮不了我！”她突然热情地喊道。

It was the first time she had alluded to the need for help, and the words shook her cousin with their violence. He gave a long murmur of relief, of pity, of tenderness; it seemed to him that at last the gulf between them had been bridged. It was this that made him exclaim in a moment: ‘How unhappy you must be!’
这是她第一次提到需要帮助，这些话的暴力震撼了她的表弟。他长长地低语了一声，语气中充满了宽慰、怜悯和温柔。在他看来，他们之间的鸿沟终于被弥合了。正是这一点，让他瞬间惊呼：“你一定很不高兴吧！”

He had no sooner spoken than she recovered her self-possession, and the first use she made of it was to pretend she had not heard him. ‘When I talk of your helping me I talk great nonsense,’ she said with a quick smile. ‘The idea of my troubling you with my domestic embarrassments! The matter’s very simple; Lord Warburton must get on by himself. I can’t undertake to see him through.’
他刚一开口，她就恢复了镇定，而她第一个利用的就是假装没有听到他的声音。 “当我说起你帮助我的时候，我简直就是胡言乱语，”她迅速微笑着说道。 ‘我的想法是用我的家庭尴尬来困扰你！事情很简单；沃伯顿勋爵必须独自前行。我不能保证能陪他渡过难关。”

‘He ought to succeed easily,’ said Ralph.
“他应该很容易成功，”拉尔夫说。

Isabel debated. ‘Yes-but he has not always succeeded.’
伊莎贝尔辩论道。 “是的——但他并不总是成功。”

‘Very true. You know, however, how that always surprised me. Is Miss Osmond capable of giving us a surprise?’
‘非常正确。然而你知道，这总是让我感到惊讶。奥斯蒙德小姐能给我们带来惊喜吗？

‘It will come from him, rather. I seem to see that after all he’ll let the matter drop.’
‘相反，它将来自他。我看来他终究会放下这件事。

‘He’ll do nothing dishonourable,’ said Ralph.
“他不会做任何不光彩的事，”拉尔夫说。

‘I’m very sure of that. Nothing can be more honourable than for him to leave the poor child alone. She cares for another person, and it’s cruel to attempt to bribe her by magnificent offers to give him up.’
“我对此非常确定。对他来说，没有什么比让这个可怜的孩子独自一人更光荣的了。她关心另一个人，试图通过慷慨的提议来贿赂她放弃他是残酷的。

‘Cruel to the other person perhaps-the one she cares for. But Warburton isn’t obliged to mind that.’
“也许对另一个人很残忍——她所关心的人。但沃伯顿没有义务介意这一点。

‘No, cruel to her,’ said Isabel. ‘She would be very unhappy if she were to allow herself to be persuaded to desert poor Mr. Rosier. That idea seems to amuse you; of course you’re not in love with him. He has the merit-for Pansy-of being in love with Pansy. She can see at a glance that Lord Warburton isn’t.’
“不，对她太残忍了，”伊莎贝尔说。 “如果她被说服抛弃可怜的罗齐尔先生，她会非常不高兴。”这个想法似乎让你觉得好笑；你当然不爱他。对于潘西来说，他的优点是爱上潘西。她一眼就看出沃伯顿勋爵不是。

‘He’d be very good to her,’ said Ralph.
“他会对她很好，”拉尔夫说。

‘He has been good to her already. Fortunately, however, he has not said a word to disturb her. He could come and bid her good-bye to-morrow with perfect propriety.’
‘他已经对她很好了。不过庆幸的是，他并没有说出任何打扰她的话。明天他就可以以完美的礼节来向她告别。

‘How would your husband like that?’
“你丈夫会喜欢这样吗？”

‘Not at all; and he may be right in not liking it. Only he must obtain satisfaction himself.’
'一点也不;他不喜欢它也许是对的。只有他自己才能得到满足。

‘Has he commissioned you to obtain it?’ Ralph ventured to ask.
“他委托你去获取它吗？”拉尔夫大胆地问道。

‘It was natural that as an old friend of Lord Warburton’s-an older friend, that is, than Gilbert-I should take an interest in his intentions.’
“作为沃伯顿勋爵的老朋友——也就是说，比吉尔伯特年长的朋友——我自然会对他的意图感兴趣。”

‘Take an interest in his renouncing them, you mean?’
“你的意思是，对他放弃它们感兴趣吗？”

Isabel hesitated, frowning a little. ‘Let me understand. Are you pleading his cause?’
伊莎贝尔犹豫了一下，皱起了眉头。 ‘让我明白。你在为他辩护吗？

‘Not in the least. I’m very glad he shouldn’t become your stepdaughter’s husband. It makes such a very queer relation to you!’ said Ralph, smiling. ‘But I’m rather nervous lest your husband should think you haven’t pushed him enough.’
” “一点也不。我很高兴他不应该成为你继女的丈夫。这跟你的关系真是太奇怪了！”拉尔夫微笑着说道。 “但我很紧张，生怕你丈夫认为你没有给他足够的压力。”

Isabel found herself able to smile as well as he. ‘He knows me well enough not to have expected me to push. He himself has no intention of pushing, I presume. I’m not afraid I shall not be able to justify myself!’ she said lightly.
伊莎贝尔发现自己也能像他一样微笑。 “他很了解我，不会指望我会推动。我认为他本人无意推动。我不怕我无法为自己辩解！”她轻声说道。

Her mask had dropped for an instant, but she had put it on again, to Ralph’s infinite disappointment. He had caught a glimpse of her natural face and he wished immensely to look into it. He had an almost savage desire to hear her complain of her husband-hear her say that she should be held accountable for Lord Warburton’s defection. Ralph was certain that this was her situation; he knew by instinct, in advance, the form that in such an event Osmond’s displeasure would take. It could only take the meanest and cruellest. He would have liked to warn Isabel of it-to let her see at least how he judged for her and how he knew. It little mattered that Isabel would know much better; it was for his own satisfaction more than for hers that he longed to show her he was not deceived. He tried and tried again to make her betray Osmond; he felt cold-blooded, cruel, dishonourable almost, in doing so. But it scarcely mattered, for he only failed. What had she come for then, and why did she seem almost to offer him a chance to violate their tacit convention? Why did she ask him his advice if she gave him no liberty to answer her? How could they talk of her domestic embarrassments, as it pleased her humorously to designate them, if the principal factor was not to be mentioned? These contradictions were themselves but an indication of her trouble, and her cry for help, just before, was the only thing he was bound to consider. ‘You’ll be decidedly at variance, all the same,’ he said in a moment. And as she answered nothing, looking as if she scarce understood, ‘You’ll find yourselves thinking very differently,’ he continued.
她的面具瞬间掉了下来，但她又戴上了，这让拉尔夫无限失望。他瞥见了她本来的面容，非常想看一看。他有一种近乎野蛮的愿望，想听她抱怨她的丈夫——听她说她应该为沃伯顿勋爵的叛逃负责。拉尔夫确信这就是她的处境。他凭直觉提前知道在这种情况下奥斯蒙德的不满会采取什么形式。它只能采取最卑鄙和最残酷的手段。他本来想警告伊莎贝尔这一点——至少让她知道他是如何为她做出判断的，以及他是如何知道的。伊莎贝尔知道得更多并不重要；重要的是；他渴望向她表明他没有被欺骗，更多的是为了他自己的满足，而不是为了她的满足。他一次又一次地试图让她背叛奥斯蒙德。这样做让他感到冷血、残忍、几乎是不光彩的。但这并不重要，因为他只是失败了。她到底是来做什么的，为什么她看上去差点就给了他一个违反默契的机会？如果她没有给他回答她的自由，为什么她还要征求他的意见呢？如果不提及主要因素，他们怎么能谈论她家庭中的尴尬，因为她很高兴幽默地指出这些尴尬？这些矛盾本身只是她麻烦的表现，而她刚才的呼救声是他唯一必须考虑的事情。 “尽管如此，你肯定会产生分歧，”他过了一会儿说道。当她什么也没回答时，看起来似乎不太明白，“你们会发现自己的想法非常不同，”他继续说道。

‘That may easily happen, among the most united couples!’ She took up her parasol; he saw she was nervous, afraid of what he might say. ‘It’s a matter we can hardly quarrel about, however,’ she added; ‘for almost all the interest is on his side. That’s very natural. Pansy’s after all his daughter-not mine.’ And she put out her hand to wish him good-bye.
“对于最团结的夫妇来说，这很容易发生！”她拿起阳伞；他看到她很紧张，害怕他会说什么。 “然而，这是一个我们很难争论的问题，”她补充道。 “因为几乎所有的兴趣都在他这边。这是很自然的。潘西毕竟是他的女儿，不是我的。”她伸出手向他道别。

Ralph took an inward resolution that she shouldn’t leave him without his letting her know that he knew everything: it seemed too great an opportunity to lose. ‘Do you know what his interest will make him say?’ he asked as he took her hand. She shook her head, rather dryly-not discouragingly-and he went on. ‘It will make him say that your want of zeal is owing to jealousy.’ He stopped a moment; her face made him afraid.
拉尔夫内心下定决心，如果他不让她知道他知道一切，她就不应该离开他：这似乎是一个绝佳的机会，不容错过。 “你知道他的兴趣会让他说什么吗？”他握住她的手问道。她相当干巴巴地摇了摇头——并非沮丧——然后他继续说道。 “这会让他说你缺乏热情是因为嫉妒。”他停了下来。她的脸让他感到害怕。

‘To jealousy?’
“嫉妒？”

‘To jealousy of his daughter.’
“嫉妒他的女儿。”

She blushed red and threw back her head. ‘You’re not kind,’ she said in a voice that he had never heard on her lips.
她涨红了脸，把头向后仰去。 “你不友善，”她用他从未在她嘴里听到过的声音说道。

‘Be frank with me and you’ll see,’ he answered.
“坦白告诉我，你就会明白的，”他回答道。

But she made no reply; she only pulled her hand out of his own, which he tried still to hold, and rapidly withdrew from the room. She made up her mind to speak to Pansy, and she took an occasion on the same day, going to the girl’s room before dinner. Pansy was already dressed; she was always in advance of the time: it seemed to illustrate her pretty patience and the graceful stillness with which she could sit and wait. At present she was seated, in her fresh array, before the bed-room fire; she had blown out her candles on the completion of her toilet, in accordance with the economical habits in which she had been brought up and which she was now more careful than ever to observe; so that the room was lighted only by a couple of logs. The rooms in Palazzo Roccanera were as spacious as they were numerous, and Pansy’s virginal bower was an immense chamber with a dark, heavily-timbered ceiling. Its diminutive mistress, in the midst of it, appeared but a speck of humanity, and as she got up, with quick deference, to welcome Isabel, the latter was more than ever struck with her shy sincerity. Isabel had a difficult task-the only thing was to perform it as simply as possible. She felt bitter and angry, but she warned herself against betraying this heat. She was afraid even of looking too grave, or at least too stern; she was afraid of causing alarm. But Pansy seemed to have guessed she had come more or less as a confessor; for after she had moved the chair in which she had been sitting a little nearer to the fire and Isabel had taken her place in it, she kneeled down on a cushion in front of her, looking up and resting her clasped hands on her stepmother’s knees. What Isabel wished to do was to hear from her own lips that her mind was not occupied with Lord Warburton; but if she desired the assurance she felt herself by no means at liberty to provoke it. The girl’s father would have qualified this as rank treachery; and indeed Isabel knew that if Pansy should display the smallest germ of a disposition to encourage Lord Warburton her own duty was to hold her tongue. It was difficult to interrogate without appearing to suggest; Pansy’s supreme simplicity, an innocence even more complete than Isabel had yet judged it, gave to the most tentative enquiry something of the effect of an admonition. As she knelt there in the vague firelight, with her pretty dress dimly shining, her hands folded half in appeal and half in submission, her soft eyes, raised and fixed, full of the seriousness of the situation, she looked to Isabel like a childish martyr decked out for sacrifice and scarcely presuming even to hope to avert it. When Isabel said to her that she had never yet spoken to her of what might have been going on in relation to her getting married, but that her silence had not been indifference or ignorance, had only been the desire to leave her at liberty, Pansy bent forward, raised her face nearer and nearer, and with a little murmur which evidently expressed a deep longing, answered that she had greatly wished her to speak and that she begged her to advise her now.
但她没有回答；她只是将自己的手从他仍试图握住的手中抽出来，然后迅速退出了房间。她决定和Pansy谈谈，当天她就找了一个机会，晚饭前去了女孩的房间。潘西已经穿好衣服了。她总是走在时间的前面：这似乎说明了她相当的耐心和优雅的安静，她可以坐下来等待。现在，她穿着新装，坐在卧室的火炉前。她在上完厕所后就吹灭了蜡烛，这是根据她从小养成的节俭习惯，现在她比以往任何时候都更加小心地遵守这一习惯。所以房间里只有几根圆木照明。罗卡内拉宫的房间既宽敞又数量众多，潘西的处女凉亭是一个巨大的房间，有着深色的厚木天花板。娇小的女主人在这群人中间，显得不过是一个人性的斑点，当她迅速恭敬地起身欢迎伊莎贝尔时，伊莎贝尔比以往任何时候都更被她害羞的真诚所打动。伊莎贝尔面临着一项艰巨的任务——唯一的办法就是尽可能简单地完成它。她感到痛苦和愤怒，但她警告自己不要背叛这种热情。她甚至害怕显得过于严肃，或者至少是过于严厉。她害怕引起恐慌。但潘西似乎猜到她或多或少是作为忏悔神父而来的。因为当她把她刚才坐的椅子移到离火更近一点、伊莎贝尔坐到椅子上后，她跪在她面前的垫子上，抬起头，把紧握的双手放在继母的膝盖上。 。 伊莎贝尔想做的是从她自己的嘴里听到她的心思并没有被沃伯顿勋爵占据；但如果她想要得到保证，她觉得自己绝不能随意挑衅。女孩的父亲会认为这是严重的背叛。事实上，伊莎贝尔知道，如果潘西表现出哪怕一丁点的热情来鼓励沃伯顿勋爵，她自己的责任就是闭嘴。很难在不提出暗示的情况下进行审问。潘西极其单纯，她的天真甚至比伊莎贝尔的判断还要彻底，这给最试探性的询问带来了某种警告的效果。她跪在模糊的火光下，漂亮的衣裙泛着微光，双手半是恳求，半是屈服，柔和的眼睛抬起来，定定地看着，充满了事态的严重性，她看着伊莎贝尔，就像一个孩子气的孩子。烈士打扮得漂漂亮亮地准备牺牲，甚至不希望希望避免这种情况发生。当伊莎贝尔对她说，她从来没有跟她谈论过与她结婚有关的事情，但她的沉默并不是冷漠或无知，只是想让她自由时，潘西向前倾身，把脸抬得越来越近，小声嘀咕着，显然表达了深深的渴望，回答说她非常希望她说话，并恳求她现在就给她建议。

‘It’s difficult for me to advise you,’ Isabel returned. ‘I don’t know how I can undertake that. That’s for your father; you must get his advice and, above all, you must act on it.’
“我很难给你提供建议，”伊莎贝尔回答道。 ‘我不知道我该如何承担这件事。那是给你父亲的；你必须听取他的建议，最重要的是，你必须采取行动。

At this Pansy dropped her eyes; for a moment she said nothing. ‘I think I should like your advice better than papa’s,’ she presently remarked.
听到这里，Pansy垂下眼帘。有一会儿她什么也没说。 “我想我应该更喜欢你的建议，而不是爸爸的建议，”她随即说道。

‘That’s not as it should be,’ said Isabel coldly. ‘I love you very much, but your father loves you better.’
“事情不应该如此，”伊莎贝尔冷冷地说。 “我非常爱你，但你父亲更爱你。”

‘It isn’t because you love me-it’s because you’re a lady,’ Pansy answered with the air of saying something very reasonable. ‘A lady can advise a young girl better than a man.’
“不是因为你爱我——而是因为你是一位女士。”潘西回答道，语气很有道理。 “女士比男士更能为年轻女孩提供建议。”

‘I advise you then to pay the greatest respect to your father’s wishes.’
“那么我建议你对你父亲的意愿表示最大的尊重。”

‘Ah yes,’ said the child eagerly, ‘I must do that.’
“啊，是的，”孩子急切地说，“我必须这么做。”

‘But if I speak to you now about your getting married it’s not for your own sake, it’s for mine,’ Isabel went on. ‘If I try to learn from you what you expect, what you desire, it’s only that I may act accordingly.’
“但如果我现在和你谈论你结婚的事，那不是为了你自己，而是为了我，”伊莎贝尔继续说道。 “如果我试图从你身上了解你的期望、你的愿望，那只是我可以采取相应的行动。”

Pansy stared, and then very quickly, ‘Will you do everything I want?’ she asked.
Pansy 盯着看，然后很快问道：“你愿意做我想做的一切吗？”

‘Before I say yes I must know what such things are.’
“在我答应之前，我必须知道这些东西是什么。”

Pansy presently told her that the only thing she wanted in life was to marry Mr. Rosier. He had asked her and she had told him she would do so if her papa would allow it. Now her papa wouldn’t allow it.
潘西立即告诉她，她一生中唯一想要的就是嫁给罗齐尔先生。他问过她，她告诉他，如果她爸爸允许的话，她会这样做。现在她爸爸不允许了。

‘Very well then, it’s impossible,’ Isabel pronounced.
“好吧，这是不可能的，”伊莎贝尔断言。

‘Yes, it’s impossible,’ said Pansy without a sigh and with the same extreme attention in her clear little face.
“是的，这是不可能的。”潘西没有叹息地说，她那张清澈的小脸上却表现出同样的极度专注。

‘You must think of something else then,’ Isabel went on; but Pansy, sighing at this, told her that she had attempted that feat without the least success.
“那么你必须想点别的办法，”伊莎贝尔继续说道。但潘西对此叹了口气，告诉她，她曾尝试过这一壮举，但没有成功。

‘You think of those who think of you,’ she said with a faint smile. ‘I know Mr. Rosier thinks of me.’
“你想着那些想着你的人。”她微笑着说道。 “我知道罗齐尔先生想念我。”

‘He ought not to,’ said Isabel loftily. ‘Your father has expressly requested he shouldn’t.’
“他不应该这么做，”伊莎贝尔傲慢地说。 “你父亲明确要求他不应该这样做。”

‘He can’t help it, because he knows I think of him.’
“他无法控制，因为他知道我想他。”

‘You shouldn’t think of him. There’s some excuse for him, perhaps; but there’s none for you.’
‘你不应该想起他。也许他有一些借口；但没有适合你的。

‘I wish you would try to find one,’ the girl exclaimed as if she were praying to the Madonna.
“我希望你能找到一个，”女孩大声说道，仿佛她在向圣母祈祷。

‘I should be very sorry to attempt it,’ said the Madonna with unusual frigidity. ‘If you knew some one else was thinking of you, would you think of him?’
“我对尝试这样做感到非常遗憾，”麦当娜异常冷淡地说。 “如果你知道有人在想你，你会想起他吗？”

‘No one can think of me as Mr. Rosier does; no one has the right.’
“没有人能像罗齐尔先生那样看待我；没有人有这个权利。

‘Ah, but I don’t admit Mr. Rosier’s right!’ Isabel hypocritically cried.
“啊，但我不承认罗齐尔先生是对的！”伊莎贝尔虚伪地叫道。

Pansy only gazed at her, evidently much puzzled; and Isabel, taking advantage of it, began to represent to her the wretched consequences of disobeying her father. At this Pansy stopped her with the assurance that she would never disobey him, would never marry without his consent. And she announced, in the serenest, simplest tone, that, though she might never marry Mr. Rosier, she would never cease to think of him. She appeared to have accepted the idea of eternal singleness; but Isabel of course was free to reflect that she had no conception of its meaning. She was perfectly sincere; she was prepared to give up her lover. This might seem an important step toward taking another, but for Pansy, evidently, it failed to lead in that direction. She felt no bitterness toward her father; there was no bitterness in her heart; there was only the sweetness of fidelity to Edward Rosier, and a strange, exquisite intimation that she could prove it better by remaining single than even by marrying him.
Pansy只是看着她，显然很困惑。伊莎贝尔利用这个机会，开始向她讲述不服从父亲的悲惨后果。这时潘西阻止了她，并保证她永远不会违背他的命令，未经他的同意绝不会结婚。她用最平静、最简单的语气宣布，虽然她可能永远不会嫁给罗齐尔先生，但她永远不会停止想念他。她似乎已经接受了永远单身的想法；但伊莎贝尔当然可以自由地反映她不知道其含义。她非常真诚。她准备放弃她的爱人。这似乎是迈出另一步的重要一步，但对于潘西来说，显然，它未能朝这个方向迈出。她对父亲并无怨恨之情。她的心里没有苦涩；只有对爱德华·罗齐尔忠诚的甜蜜，以及一种奇怪而精致的暗示，表明她保持单身比嫁给他更能证明这一点。

‘Your father would like you to make a better marriage,’ said Isabel.
“你父亲希望你能拥有更好的婚姻，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘Mr. Rosier’s fortune is not at all large.’
'先生。罗齐尔的财富并不多。

‘How do you mean better-if that would be good enough? And I have myself so little money; why should I look for a fortune?’
“更好是什么意思——如果这样就足够了？”而我自己的钱又那么少；我为什么要寻找财富？

‘Your having so little is a reason for looking for more.’ With which Isabel was grateful for the dimness of the room; she felt as if her face were hideously insincere. It was what she was doing for Osmond; it was what one had to do for Osmond! Pansy’s solemn eyes, fixed on her own, almost embarrassed her; she was ashamed to think she had made so light of the girl’s preference.
“你拥有的如此之少，正是你寻找更多的理由。”伊莎贝尔对房间的昏暗表示感激。她觉得自己的表情显得极其不真诚。这就是她为奥斯蒙德做的事情；这就是人们必须为奥斯蒙德做的事情！潘西严肃的眼睛盯着她自己，几乎让她感到尴尬。她为自己如此轻视女孩的喜好而感到羞愧。

‘What should you like me to do?’ her companion softly demanded.
“你希望我做什么？”她的同伴轻声问道。

The question was a terrible one, and Isabel took refuge in timorous vagueness. ‘To remember all the pleasure it’s in your power to give your father.’
这个问题很可怕，伊莎贝尔只好胆怯地含糊其辞。 “记住你有能力给你父亲带来的​​所有快乐。”

‘To marry some one else, you mean-if he should ask me?’
“你是说，嫁给别人——如果他向我求婚呢？”

For a moment Isabel’s answer caused itself to be waited for; then she heard herself utter it in the stillness that Pansy’s attention seemed to make.
伊莎贝尔的回答引起了人们的等待。然后她听到自己在潘西的注意力所造成的安静中说出了这句话。

‘Yes-to marry some one else.’
“是的——嫁给别人。”

The child’s eyes grew more penetrating; Isabel believed she was doubting her sincerity, and the impression took force from her slowly getting up from her cushion. She stood there a moment with her small hands unclasped and then quavered out: ‘Well, I hope no one will ask me!’
孩子的目光变得更加锐利。伊莎贝尔相信她在怀疑自己的诚意，而这种印象在她慢慢地从垫子上站起来时就变得有力了。她张开小手在那里站了一会儿，然后颤抖着说道：“好吧，我希望没有人会问我！”

‘There has been a question of that. Some one else would have been ready to ask you.’
‘一直有一个问题。其他人可能已经准备好问你了。

don’t think he can have been ready,’ said Pansy.
我认为他还没有准备好。”潘西说道。

‘It would appear so-if he had been sure he’d succeed.’
“看来是这样——如果他确信自己会成功的话。”

‘If he had been sure? Then he wasn’t ready!’
“如果他确定的话？那么他还没有准备好！

Isabel thought this rather sharp; she also got up and stood a moment looking into the fire. ‘Lord Warburton has shown you great attention,’ she resumed; ‘of course you know it’s of him I speak.’ She found herself, against her expectation, almost placed in the position of justifying herself; which led her to introduce this nobleman more crudely than she had intended.
伊莎贝尔认为这相当尖锐。她也站起来，站了一会儿，看着火。 “沃伯顿勋爵对你表现出了极大的关注，”她继续说道。 “你当然知道我说的是他。”出乎她的意料，她发现自己几乎处于为自己辩护的境地。这导致她对这位贵族的介绍比她预想的更加粗鲁。

‘He has been very kind to me, and I like him very much. But if you mean that he’ll propose for me I think you’re mistaken.’
“他对我很好，我非常喜欢他。但如果你的意思是他会向我求婚，我想你就错了。”

‘Perhaps I am. But your father would like it extremely.’
'也许我是。但你父亲非常喜欢。”

Pansy shook her head with a little wise smile. ‘Lord Warburton won’t propose simply to please papa.’
Pansy 带着一点睿智的微笑摇了摇头。 “沃伯顿勋爵不会仅仅为了取悦爸爸而求婚。”

‘Your father would like you to encourage him,’ Isabel went on mechanically.
“你父亲希望你鼓励他，”伊莎贝尔机械地继续说道。

‘How can I encourage him?’
“我该如何鼓励他？”

don’t know. Your father must tell you that.’
不知道。你父亲一定会告诉你这一点。

Pansy said nothing for a moment; she only continued to smile as if she were in possession of a bright assurance. ‘There’s no danger-no danger!’ she declared at last.
Pansy 一时没有说话。她只是继续微笑，仿佛拥有光明的保证。 “没有危险——没有危险！”她最后宣布。

There was a conviction in the way she said this, and a felicity in her believing it, which conduced to Isabel’s awkwardness. She felt accused of dishonesty, and the idea was disgusting. To repair her self-respect she was on the point of saying that Lord Warburton had let her know that there was a danger. But she didn’t; she only said-in her embarrassment rather wide of the mark-that he surely had been most kind, most friendly.
她说这句话的方式充满了信念，而且她相信这一点很幸福，这导致了伊莎贝尔的尴尬。她觉得自己被指控不诚实，这个想法很恶心。为了挽回自尊，她几乎要说沃伯顿勋爵让她知道存在危险。但她没有；她只是说——在她相当尴尬的情况下——他确实是最仁慈、最友好的。

‘Yes, he has been very kind,’ Pansy answered. ‘That’s what I like him for.’
“是的，他非常友善，”潘西回答。 “这就是我喜欢他的原因。”

‘Why then is the difficulty so great?’
“那为什么困难这么大呢？”

‘I’ve always felt sure of his knowing that I don’t want-what did you say I should do?-to encourage him. He knows I don’t want to marry, and he wants me to know that he therefore won’t trouble me. That’s the meaning of his kindness. It’s as if he said to me: ‘I like you very much, but if it doesn’t please you I’ll never say it again.’ I think that’s very kind, very noble,’ Pansy went on with deepening positiveness. ‘That is all we’ve said to each other. And he doesn’t care for me either. Ah no, there’s no danger.’
“我一直确信他知道我不想——你说我应该做什么？——去鼓励他。他知道我不想结婚，他想让我知道他不会麻烦我。这就是他的善意的意义。就好像他对我说：“我非常喜欢你，但如果你不高兴，我就再也不会这么说了。”我认为这是非常友善、非常高尚的，”Pansy 继续说道，态度越来越积极。 “这就是我们彼此说的一切。而且他也不关心我。啊不，没有危险。

Isabel was touched with wonder at the depths of perception of which this submissive little person was capable; she felt afraid of Pansy’s wisdom-began almost to retreat before it. ‘You must tell your father that,’ she remarked reservedly.
伊莎贝尔对这个顺从的小个子的感知能力深感惊讶。她对潘西的智慧感到害怕——几乎开始在它面前退缩。 “你必须告诉你父亲这一点，”她有所保留地说。

‘I think I’d rather not,’ Pansy unreservedly answered.
“我想我不想，”潘西毫无保留地回答。

‘You oughtn’t to let him have false hopes.’
“你不应该让他抱有虚假的希望。”

‘Perhaps not; but it will be good for me that he should. So long as he believes that Lord Warburton intends anything of the kind you say, papa won’t propose any one else. And that will be an advantage for me,’ said the child very lucidly.
'也许不是；但他这样做对我有好处。只要爸爸相信沃伯顿勋爵有你所说的那种意图，他就不会推荐任何其他人。这对我来说是一个优势。”孩子非常清楚地说道。

There was something brilliant in her lucidity, and it made her companion draw a long breath. It relieved this friend of a heavy responsibility. Pansy had a sufficient illumination of her own, and Isabel felt that she herself just now had no light to spare from her small stock. Nevertheless it still clung to her that she must be loyal to Osmond, that she was on her honour in dealing with his daughter. Under the influence of this sentiment she threw out another suggestion before she retired-a suggestion with which it seemed to her that she should have done her utmost. ‘Your father takes for granted at least that you would like to marry a nobleman.’
她的清醒中有一种灿烂的光芒，让她的同伴长长地吸了一口气。这让这位朋友卸下了沉重的责任。潘西自己有足够的照明，而伊莎贝尔觉得她自己现在已经没有多余的光可以从她的小库存里拿出来了。尽管如此，她仍然坚信她必须忠于奥斯蒙德，她在与他的女儿打交道时以她的荣誉为荣。在这种情绪的影响下，她在退休前又提出了另一个建议——在她看来，她应该竭尽全力地提出这个建议。 “你父亲至少理所当然地认为你想嫁给一个贵族。”

Pansy stood in the open doorway; she had drawn back the curtain for Isabel to pass. ‘I think Mr. Rosier looks like one!’ she remarked very gravely.
潘西站在敞开的门口。她拉开了窗帘让伊莎贝尔过去。 “我觉得罗齐尔先生很像！”她非常严肃地说道。

Chapter 46
第46章

Lord Warburton was not seen in Mrs. Osmond’s drawing-room for several days, and Isabel couldn’t fail to observe that her husband said nothing to her about having received a letter from him. She couldn’t fail to observe, either, that Osmond was in a state of expectancy and that, though it was not agreeable to him to betray it, he thought their distinguished friend kept him waiting quite too long. At the end of four days he alluded to his absence.
沃伯顿勋爵已经好几天没有出现在奥斯蒙德夫人的客厅里了，伊莎贝尔不可能不注意到她的丈夫没有对她说过收到他的来信。她也不能不注意到，奥斯蒙德正处于一种期待的状态，尽管他不愿意背叛它，但他认为他们尊贵的朋友让他等得太久了。四天结束时，他提到了自己的缺席。

‘What has become of Warburton? What does he mean by treating one like a tradesman with a bill?’
“沃伯顿现在怎么样了？他把一个人当作一个拿着账单的商人是什么意思？

‘I know nothing about him,’ Isabel said. ‘I saw him last Friday at the German ball. He told me then that he meant to write to you.’
“我对他一无所知，”伊莎贝尔说。 “我上周五在德国舞会上看到了他。他当时告诉我他打算写信给你。

‘He has never written to me.’
“他从来没有给我写过信。”

‘So I supposed, from your not having told me.’
“我是这么想的，因为你没有告诉我。”

‘He’s an odd fish,’ said Osmond comprehensively. And on Isabel’s making no rejoinder he went on to enquire whether it took his lordship five days to indite a letter. ‘Does he form his words with such difficulty?’
“他是一条奇怪的鱼，”奥斯蒙德全面地说。伊莎贝尔没有反驳，他继续询问大人是否花了五天时间才写了一封信。 “他说起话来有那么困难吗？”

‘I don’t know,’ Isabel was reduced to replying. ‘I’ve never had a letter from him.’
“我不知道，”伊莎贝尔只好回答。 “我从未收到过他的来信。”

‘Never had a letter? I had an idea that you were at one time in intimate correspondence.’
‘从来没有收到过信吗？我有一个想法，你们曾经有过亲密的书信往来。”

She answered that this had not been the case, and let the conversation drop. On the morrow, however, coming into the drawing-room late in the afternoon, her husband took it up again.
她回答说事实并非如此，然后就结束了谈话。然而，第二天下午晚些时候，她丈夫走进客厅，又提起了这件事。

‘When Lord Warburton told you of his intention of writing what did you say to him?’ he asked.
“当沃伯顿勋爵告诉你他打算写信时，你对他说了什么？”他问道。

She just faltered. ‘I think I told him not to forget it.’
她只是支支吾吾。 “我想我告诉过他不要忘记。”

‘Did you believe there was a danger of that?’
“你认为这有危险吗？”

‘As you say, he’s an odd fish.’
“正如你所说，他是一条奇怪的鱼。”

‘Apparently he has forgotten it,’ said Osmond. ‘Be so good as to remind ‘Should you like me to write to him?’ she demanded.
“显然他已经忘记了，”奥斯蒙德说。 “要善意地提醒‘你想让我写信给他吗？’她要求道。

‘I’ve no objection whatever.’
“我不反对。”

‘You expect too much of me.’
“你对我期望太高了。”

‘Ah yes, I expect a great deal of you.’
“啊，是的，我对你寄予厚望。”

‘I’m afraid I shall disappoint you,’ said Isabel.
“恐怕我会让你失望，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘My expectations have survived a good deal of disappointment.’
“我的期望经受住了很多失望。”

‘Of course I know that. Think how I must have disappointed myself! If you really wish hands laid on Lord Warburton you must lay them yourself.’
‘我当然知道这一点。想想我一定让自己多么失望！如果你真的希望为沃伯顿勋爵按手，你必须亲自按手。

For a couple of minutes Osmond answered nothing; then he said: ‘That won’t be easy, with you working against me.’
有几分钟，奥斯蒙德没有回答。然后他说：“这并不容易，因为你和我作对。”

Isabel started; she felt herself beginning to tremble. He had a way of looking at her through half-closed eyelids, as if he were thinking of her but scarcely saw her, which seemed to her to have a wonderfully cruel intention. It appeared to recognize her as a disagreeable necessity of thought, but to ignore her for the time as a presence. That effect had never been so marked as now. ‘I think you accuse me of something very base,’ she returned.
伊莎贝尔吃了一惊；她感觉自己开始颤抖。他有一种半闭眼睑看着她的方式，仿佛他在想她，但几乎没有看到她，这在她看来有一种极其残忍的意图。它似乎承认她是思想中令人不快的必需品，但暂时忽略了她的存在。这种影响从未像现在这样显着。 “我认为你指责我一些非常卑鄙的事情，”她回答道。

‘I accuse you of not being trustworthy. If he doesn’t after all come forward it will be because you’ve kept him off. I don’t know that it’s base: it is the kind of thing a woman always thinks she may do. I’ve no doubt you’ve the finest ideas about it.’
‘我指责你不值得信任。如果他最终没有挺身而出，那是因为你阻止了他。我不知道这是卑鄙的：这是女人总是认为自己可以做的事情。我毫不怀疑你对此有最好的想法。

‘I told you I would do what I could,’ she went on.
“我告诉过你我会尽我所能，”她继续说道。

‘Yes, that gained you time.’
“是的，这为你赢得了时间。”

It came over her, after he had said this, that she had once thought him beautiful. ‘How much you must want to make sure of him!’ she exclaimed in a moment.
他说完这句话后，她突然意识到，她曾经认为他很漂亮。 “你一定非常想确定他的情况！”她立刻大声说道。

She had no sooner spoken than she perceived the full reach of her words, of which she had not been conscious in uttering them. They made a comparison between Osmond and herself, recalled the fact that she had once held this coveted treasure in her hand and felt herself rich enough to let it fall. A momentary exultation took possession of her-a horrible delight in having wounded him; for his face instantly told her that none of the force of her exclamation was lost. He expressed nothing otherwise, however; he only said quickly: ‘Yes, I want it immensely.’
她刚一开口，就意识到她的话的全部意义，而她在说这些话时并没有意识到。他们将奥斯蒙德和她自己进行了比较，回忆起她曾经把这件令人垂涎的宝贝握在手里，并觉得自己足够富有，以至于让它掉下来的事实。一阵狂喜占据了她的心——一种因伤害了他而产生的可怕的快乐；因为他的脸立即告诉她，她惊呼的力度丝毫没有减弱。不过，他并没有表达任何其他意思。他只是很快地说：“是的，我非常想要它。”

At this moment a servant came in to usher a visitor, and he was followed the next by Lord Warburton, who received a visible check on seeing Osmond. He looked rapidly from the master of the house to the mistress; a movement that seemed to denote a reluctance to interrupt or even a perception of ominous conditions. Then he advanced, with his English address, in which a vague shyness seemed to offer itself as an element of good breeding; in which the only defect was a difficulty in achieving transitions. Osmond was embarrassed; he found nothing to say; but Isabel remarked, promptly enough, that they had been in the act of talking about their visitor. Upon this her husband added that they hadn’t known what was become of him-they had been afraid he had gone away. ‘No,’ he explained, smiling and looking at Osmond; ‘I’m only on the point of going.’ And then he mentioned that he found himself suddenly recalled to England: he should start on the morrow or the day after. ‘I’m awfully sorry to leave poor Touchett!’ he ended by exclaiming.
这时，一名仆人进来迎接一位访客，紧随其后的是沃伯顿勋爵，他在见到奥斯蒙德时受到了明显的检查。他的目光迅速从男主人转向女主人。这一动作似乎表明不愿打断，甚至表示感觉到不祥的情况。然后他用英语说话，语气中隐隐约约的害羞似乎是良好教养的一个因素。其中唯一的缺陷是难以实现转变。奥斯蒙德很尴尬。他无话可说；但伊莎贝尔很快就指出，他们正在谈论他们的访客。对此，她的丈夫补充说，他们不知道他怎么样了——他们担心他已经走了。 “不，”他微笑着看着奥斯蒙德解释道。 “我正要出发。”然后他提到他突然被召回英格兰：他应该在明天或后天出发。 “我非常遗憾地离开了可怜的图切特！”他最后说道。

For a moment neither of his companions spoke; Osmond only leaned back in his chair, listening. Isabel didn’t look at him; she could only fancy how he looked. Her eyes were on their visitor’s face, where they were the more free to rest that those of his lordship carefully avoided them. Yet Isabel was sure that had she met his glance she would have found it expressive. ‘You had better take poor Touchett with you,’ she heard her husband say, lightly enough, in a moment.
一时之间，他的两个同伴都没有说话。奥斯蒙德只是靠在椅子上，听着。伊莎贝尔没有看他，只是看着他。她只能想象他的样子。她的眼睛注视着来访者的脸，在那里他们可以更自由地休息，而勋爵的人则小心翼翼地避开他们。然而伊莎贝尔确信，如果她看到他的目光，她会发现他的目光富有表现力。 “你最好带上可怜的图切特一起去，”她听见她丈夫立刻说道，语气很轻松。

‘He had better wait for warmer weather,’ Lord Warburton answered. ‘I shouldn’t advise him to travel just now.’
“他最好等待天气转暖，”沃伯顿勋爵回答道。 “我现在不应该建议他旅行。”

He sat there a quarter of an hour, talking as if he might not soon see them again-unless indeed they should come to England, a course he strongly recommended. Why shouldn’t they come to England in the autumn?-that struck him as a very happy thought. It would give him such pleasure to do what he could for them-to have them come and spend a month with him. Osmond, by his own admission, had been to England but once; which was an absurd state of things for a man of his leisure and intelligence. It was just the country for him-he would be sure to get on well there. Then Lord Warburton asked Isabel if she remembered what a good time she had had there and if she didn’t want to try it again. Didn’t she want to see Gardencourt once more? Gardencourt was really very good. Touchett didn’t take proper care of it, but it was the sort of place you could hardly spoil by letting it alone. Why didn’t they come and pay Touchett a visit? He surely must have asked them. Hadn’t asked them? What an ill-mannered wretch!-and Lord Warburton promised to give the master of Gardencourt a piece of his mind. Of course it was a mere accident; he would be delighted to have them. Spending a month with Touchett and a month with himself, and seeing all the rest of the people they must know there, they really wouldn’t find it half bad. Lord Warburton added that it would amuse Miss Osmond as well, who had told him that she had never been to England and whom he had assured it was a country she deserved to see. Of course she didn’t need to go to England to be admired-that was her fate everywhere; but she would be an immense success there, she certainly would, if that was any inducement. He asked if she were not at home: couldn’t he say good-bye? Not that he liked good-byes-he always funked them. When he left England the other day he hadn’t said good-bye to a two-legged creature. He had had half a mind to leave Rome without troubling Mrs. Osmond for a final interview. What could be more dreary than final interviews? One never said the things one wanted-one remembered them all an hour afterwards. On the other hand one usually said a lot of things one shouldn’t, simply from a sense that one had to say something. Such a sense was upsetting; it muddled one’s wits. He had it at present, and that was the effect it produced on him. If Mrs. Osmond didn’t think he spoke as he ought she must set it down to agitation; it was no light thing to part with Mrs. Osmond. He was really very sorry to be going. He had thought of writing to her instead of calling-but he would write to her at any rate, to tell her a lot of things that would be sure to occur to him as soon as he had left the house. They must think seriously about coming to Lockleigh.
他在那里坐了一刻钟，说话的语气好像他可能不会很快再见到他们——除非他们确实应该来英国，这是他强烈推荐的做法。他们为什么不应该在秋天来英国呢？——这让他感到非常高兴。如果他能够为他们做一些力所能及的事——让他们来和他一起度过一个月，他会感到非常高兴。奥斯蒙德自己承认，他只去过英国一次。对于他这样一个闲暇而聪明的人来说，这是一种荒谬的情况。这对他来说就是这个国家——他一定会在那里过得很好。然后沃伯顿勋爵问伊莎贝尔是否还记得在那里度过的美好时光，是否不想再尝试一次。难道她不想再去看看花园庭院吗？花园庭院真的非常好。塔奇特没有好好照顾它，但它是那种你很难放任不管而破坏它的地方。他们为什么不来看望杜切特？他肯定问过他们了。没有问过他们吗？真是一个无礼的坏蛋！沃伯顿勋爵答应向花园庭院的主人表达他的想法。当然，这只是一次意外。他会很高兴拥有它们。和图切特待了一个月，又和他自己呆了一个月，并看到了那里所有他们一定认识的其他人，他们真的不会觉得这很糟糕。沃伯顿勋爵补充说，这也会让奥斯蒙德小姐感到好笑，奥斯蒙德小姐告诉他，她从未去过英国，而他向她保证，这是一个她值得参观的国家。当然，她不需要去英国才能受到钦佩——那是她在任何地方的命运；但她会在那里取得巨大的成功，她肯定会的，如果这有什么诱因的话。他问她不在家吗：不能说再见吗？并不是说他喜欢告别——他总是对它们感到害怕。 有一天，当他离开英国时，他并没有对一只两条腿的生物说再见。他本来有点想离开罗马，不想麻烦奥斯蒙德夫人进行最后一次面谈。还有什么比最终面试更沉闷的事情呢？一个人从来不会说出自己想要说的话——一小时后就会全部记住。另一方面，人们通常会说很多不应该说的话，只是出于一种必须说些什么的感觉。这种感觉令人心烦意乱。它让人糊涂。他现在已经拥有了，这就是它对他产生的影响。如果奥斯蒙德夫人认为他没有按应有的方式说话，她一定会认为这是因为激动。与奥斯蒙德夫人分开并不是一件容易的事。他真的很遗憾要离开。他本来想写信给她而不是打电话——但他无论如何都会写信给她，告诉她很多他离开家后肯定会发生的事情。他们必须认真考虑来洛克利。

If there was anything awkward in the conditions of his visit or in the announcement of his departure it failed to come to the surface. Lord Warburton talked about his agitation; but he showed it in no other manner, and Isabel saw that since he had determined on a retreat he was capable of executing it gallantly. She was very glad for him; she liked him quite well enough to wish him to appear to carry a thing off. He would do that on any occasion-not from impudence but simply from the habit of success; and Isabel felt it out of her husband’s power to frustrate this faculty. A complex operation, as she sat there, went on in her mind. On one side she listened to their visitor; said what was proper to him; read, more or less, between the lines of what he said himself; and wondered how he would have spoken if he had found her alone. On the other she had a perfect consciousness of Osmond’s emotion. She felt almost sorry for him; he was condemned to the sharp pain of loss without the relief of cursing. He had had a great hope, and now, as he saw it vanish into smoke, he was obliged to sit and smile and twirl his thumbs. Not that he troubled himself to smile very brightly; he treated their friend on the whole to as vacant a countenance as so clever a man could very well wear. It was indeed a part of Osmond’s cleverness that he could look consummately uncompromised. His present appearance, however, was not a confession of disappointment; it was simply a part of Osmond’s habitual system, which was to be inexpressive exactly in proportion as he was really intent. He had been intent on this prize from the first; but he had never allowed his eagerness to irradiate his refined face. He had treated his possible son-in-law as he treated every one-with an air of being interested in him only for his own advantage, not for any profit to a person already so generally, so perfectly provided as Gilbert Osmond. He would give no sign now of an inward rage which was the result of a vanished prospect of gain-not the faintest nor subtlest. Isabel could be sure of that, if it was any satisfaction to her. Strangely, very strangely, it was a satisfaction; she wished Lord Warburton to triumph before her husband, and at the same time she wished her husband to be very superior before Lord Warburton. Osmond, in his way, was admirable; he had, like their visitor, the advantage of an acquired habit. It was not that of succeeding, but it was something almost as good-that of not attempting. As he leaned back in his place, listening but vaguely to the other’s friendly offers and suppressed explanations if it were only proper to assume that they were addressed essentially to his wife-he had at least (since so little else was left him) the comfort of thinking how well he personally had kept out of it, and how the air of indifference, which he was now able to wear, had the added beauty of consistency. It was something to be able to look as if the leave-taker’s movements had no relation to his own mind. The latter did well, certainly; but Osmond’s performance was in its very nature more finished. Lord Warburton’s position was after all an easy one; there was no reason in the world why he shouldn’t leave Rome. He had had beneficent inclinations, but they had stopped short of fruition; he had never committed himself, and his honour was safe. Osmond appeared to take but a moderate interest in the proposal that they should go and stay with him and in his allusion to the success Pansy might extract from their visit. He murmured a recognition, but left Isabel to say that it was a matter requiring grave consideration. Isabel, even while she made this remark, could see the great vista which had suddenly opened out in her husband’s mind, with Pansy’s little figure marching up the middle of it.
即使他访问的条件或他离开的消息中有什么尴尬的地方，也没有浮出水面。沃伯顿勋爵谈到了他的焦躁不安。但他没有以其他方式表现出来，伊莎贝尔看到，既然他决定撤退，他就有能力英勇地执行它。她为他感到非常高兴。她非常喜欢他，希望他看起来能有所作为。他在任何情况下都会这样做——不是出于厚颜无耻，而只是出于成功的习惯。伊莎贝尔觉得她丈夫没有能力挫败这种能力。当她坐在那里时，她的脑海里一直在进行着复杂的操作。她一方面倾听来访者的讲话，另一方面又倾听他们的声音。说的是适合他的话；或多或少地读懂他自己所说的话的字里行间；并想知道如果他发现她独自一人，他会怎样说话。另一方面，她对奥斯蒙德的情绪有着完美的感知。她几乎为他感到难过。他注定要承受失去亲人的剧痛，但咒骂却无法缓解。他曾经抱有很大的希望，而现在，当他看到它消失在烟雾中时，他不得不坐下来微笑着转动拇指。倒不是说他不厌其烦地笑得很灿烂；而是说他笑得很开心。总的来说，他对待他们的朋友的表情就像一个聪明人所能表现出的茫然一样。这确实是奥斯蒙德聪明的一部分，他可以看起来完美的不妥协。然而，他现在的表情并没有流露失望的意思。这只是奥斯蒙德习惯系统的一部分，他的表达方式与他真正的意图完全一致。他从一开始就对这个奖项一心一意。但他从不让自己的渴望暴露在他精致的脸上。 他像对待每个人一样对待他可能的女婿——一副对他感兴趣的样子，只是为了自己的利益，而不是为了给吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德这样一个已经如此普遍、如此完美的人带来任何利益。他现在不会表现出任何因获利前景消失而产生的内心愤怒——不是最微弱或最微妙的。伊莎贝尔可以肯定这一点，如果这能让她满意的话。奇怪的是，非常奇怪的是，这是一种满足；这是一种满足。她希望沃伯顿勋爵在她丈夫面前取得胜利，同时她也希望她的丈夫在沃伯顿勋爵面前表现得非常优越。奥斯蒙德以他的方式令人钦佩。和他们的访客一样，他也有后天习惯的优势。这不是成功，但几乎同样好——不去尝试。当他向后靠在自己的位置上，听着对方友好的提议和压抑的解释（如果可以假设这些内容本质上是对他的妻子说的话）时，他至少（因为剩下的东西已经很少了）感到安慰想想他个人是如何很好地置身事外，以及他现在能够表现出的冷漠神态如何具有一致性的美感。能够让告别者的动作看起来与他自己的思想无关，这是一件很了不起的事情。当然，后者做得很好。但奥斯蒙德的表演本质上更加完成。沃伯顿勋爵的处境毕竟很轻松。他没有理由不离开罗马。他曾有过善意，但未能实现。他从来没有做出过承诺，他的荣誉是安全的。 奥斯蒙德似乎对他们应该去和他呆在一起的建议以及他暗示潘西可能从他们的访问中获得的成功没有多大兴趣。他低声表示认可，但让伊莎贝尔说这是一件需要认真考虑的事情。伊莎贝尔在说这句话的时候，就可以看到她丈夫脑海中突然展开的伟大景象，潘西的小身影正走在其中。

Lord Warburton had asked leave to bid good-bye to Pansy, but neither Isabel nor Osmond had made any motion to send for her. He had the air of giving out that his visit must be short; he sat on a small chair, as if it were only for a moment, keeping his hat in his hand. But he stayed and stayed; Isabel wondered what he was waiting for. She believed it was not to see Pansy; she had an impression that on the whole he would rather not see Pansy. It was of course to see herself alone-he had something to say to her. Isabel had no great wish to hear it, for she was afraid it would be an explanation, and she could perfectly dispense with explanations. Osmond, however, presently got up, like a man of good taste to whom it had occurred that so inveterate a visitor might wish to say just the last word of all to the ladies. ‘I’ve a letter to write before dinner,’ he said; ‘you must excuse me. I’ll see if my daughter’s disengaged, and if she is she shall know you’re here. Of course when you come to Rome you’ll always look us up. Mrs. Osmond will talk to you about the English expedition: she decides all those things.’
沃伯顿勋爵已请假向潘西告别，但伊莎贝尔和奥斯蒙德都没有提出任何派人去接她的动议。他的神情似乎表明他的访问一定很短。他坐在一张小椅子上，手里拿着帽子，仿佛只坐了一会儿。但他留了下来，留了下来；伊莎贝尔想知道他在等什么。她相信不是为了见Pansy；而是为了见见Pansy。她的印象是，总的来说，他宁愿不见Pansy。当然是来看自己一个人——他有话要对她说。伊莎贝尔不太愿意听，因为她担心这会是一个解释，而她完全可以不解释。然而，奥斯蒙德很快就站了起来，就像一个有品味的男人，突然想到，一位如此顽固的访客可能想对女士们说最后一句话。 “晚饭前我有一封信要写，”他说； ‘你必须原谅我。我会看看我女儿是否脱离了，如果她脱离了，她就会知道你在这里。当然，当您来到罗马时，您总会来找我们。奥斯蒙德夫人将与您谈论英国探险队：所有这些事情都是她决定的。

The nod with which, instead of a hand-shake, he wound up this little speech was perhaps rather a meagre form of salutation; but on the whole it was all the occasion demanded. Isabel reflected that after he left the room Lord Warburton would have no pretext for saying, ‘Your husband’s very angry”; which would have been extremely disagreeable to her. Nevertheless, if he had done so, she would have said: ‘Oh, don’t be anxious. He doesn’t hate you: it’s me that he hates!’
他在结束这次简短的讲话时用的点头代替了握手，这也许只是一种微不足道的问候形式；但总的来说，这正是场合所需要的。伊莎贝尔反映，在他离开房间后，沃伯顿勋爵没有任何借口说：“你的丈夫非常生气”；这对她来说是非常不愉快的。不过，如果他这么做了，她就会说：‘哦，别着急。他不恨你：他恨的是我！

It was only when they had been left alone together that her friend showed a certain vague awkwardness-sitting down in another chair, handling two or three of the objects that were near him. ‘I hope he’ll make Miss Osmond come,’ he presently remarked. ‘I want very much to see her.’
只有当他们单独在一起时，她的朋友才表现出某种隐约的尴尬——坐在另一张椅子上，处理着他身边的两三个物体。 “我希望他能让奥斯蒙德小姐来，”他随即说道。 “我非常想见她。”

‘I’m glad it’s the last time,’ said Isabel.
“我很高兴这是最后一次，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘So am I. She doesn’t care for me.’
“我也是。她不关心我。”

‘No, she doesn’t care for you.’
“不，她不关心你。”

‘I don’t wonder at it,’ he returned. Then he added with inconsequence:
“我对此并不奇怪，”他回答道。然后他又补充了一句无关紧要的话：

‘You’ll come to England, won’t you?’
“你会来英国，是吗？”

‘I think we had better not.’
“我认为我们最好不要这样做。”

‘Ah, you owe me a visit. Don’t you remember that you were to have come to Lockleigh once, and you never did?’
‘啊，你欠我一次。你难道不记得你本来应该来过洛克利一次，但你却没有来过吗？

‘Everything’s changed since then,’ said Isabel.
“从那时起，一切都变了，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘Not changed for the worse, surely-as far as we’re concerned. To see you under my roof’-and he hung fire but an instant-”would be a great satisfaction.’
“就我们而言，当然没有变得更糟。在我的屋檐下看到你”——他瞬间燃起了火焰——“将是一种极大的满足。”

She had feared an explanation; but that was the only one that occurred. They talked a little of Ralph, and in another moment Pansy came in, already dressed for dinner and with a little red spot in either cheek. She shook hands with Lord Warburton and stood looking up into his face with a fixed smile-a smile that Isabel knew, though his lordship probably never suspected it, to be near akin to a burst of tears.
她害怕得到解释。但这是唯一发生的一件事。他们聊了一些拉尔夫，过了一会儿潘西进来了，她已经穿好了准备晚餐的衣服，脸颊上有一个小红点。她与沃伯顿勋爵握手，站起来，抬头看着他的脸，脸上挂着坚定的微笑——伊莎贝尔知道这种微笑近乎泪流满面，尽管勋爵可能从未怀疑过。

‘I’m going away,’ he said. ‘I want to bid you good-bye.’
“我要走了，”他说。 “我想向你告别。”

‘Good-bye, Lord Warburton.’ Her voice perceptibly trembled.
“再见，沃伯顿勋爵。”她的声音明显在颤抖。

‘And I want to tell you how much I wish you may be very happy.’
“我想告诉你，我多么希望你能幸福。”

‘Thank you, Lord Warburton,’ Pansy answered.
“谢谢您，沃伯顿勋爵，”潘西回答。

He lingered a moment and gave a glance at Isabel. ‘You ought to be very happy-you’ve got a guardian angel.’
他停留了一会儿，看了伊莎贝尔一眼。 “你应该很高兴——你有一个守护天使。”

‘I’m sure I shall be happy,’ said Pansy in the tone of a person whose certainties were always cheerful.
“我确信我会幸福的，”潘西用一种总是充满自信的语气说道。

‘Such a conviction as that will take you a great way. But if it should ever fail you, remember-remember-’ And her interlocutor stammered a little. ‘Think of me sometimes, you know!’ he said with a vague laugh. Then he shook hands with Isabel in silence, and presently he was gone.
“这样的信念将带你走上一条伟大的道路。但如果它让你失望了，记住——记住——”她的对话者有点结巴了。 “有时想想我，你知道！”他含糊地笑着说道。然后他默默地和伊莎贝尔握手，不久就走了。

When he had left the room she expected an effusion of tears from her stepdaughter; but Pansy in fact treated her to something very different.
当他离开房间时，她以为继女会流下眼泪。但实际上潘西对待她的态度非常不同。

‘I think you are my guardian angel!’ she exclaimed very sweetly.
“我认为你是我的守护天使！”她非常甜蜜地喊道。

Isabel shook her head. ‘I’m not an angel of any kind. I’m at the most your good friend.’
伊莎贝尔摇摇头。 “我不是任何类型的天使。我顶多是你的好朋友。

‘You’re a very good friend then-to have asked papa to be gentle with me.’
“那么你就是一个非常好的朋友了——让爸爸对我温柔一些。”

‘I’ve asked your father nothing,’ said Isabel wondering.
“我什么也没问过你父亲，”伊莎贝尔疑惑地说。

‘He told me just now to come to the drawing-room, and then he gave me a very kind kiss.’
“他刚才让我到客厅来，然后他给了我一个非常友善的吻。”

‘Ah,’ said Isabel, ‘that was quite his own idea!
“啊，”伊莎贝尔说，“这完全是他自己的主意！”

She recognized the idea perfectly; it was very characteristic, and she was to see a great deal more of it. Even with Pansy he couldn’t put himself the least in the wrong. They were dining out that day, and after their dinner they went to another entertainment; so that it was not till late in the evening that Isabel saw him alone. When Pansy kissed him before going to bed he returned her embrace with even more than his usual munificence, and Isabel wondered if he meant it as a hint that his daughter had been injured by the machinations of her stepmother. It was a partial expression, at any rate, of what he continued to expect of his wife. She was about to follow Pansy, but he remarked that he wished she would remain; he had something to say to her. Then he walked about the drawing-room a little, while she stood waiting in her cloak.
她完全认同这个想法。它非常有特色，而且她还会看到更多这样的东西。即使有潘西，他也不能让自己有丝毫的错误。那天他们在外面吃饭，吃完饭后又去参加另一场娱乐活动；直到傍晚时分，伊莎贝尔才单独见到他。当Pansy在睡觉前亲吻他时，他以比平常更加慷慨的方式回报了她的拥抱，伊莎贝尔想知道他的意思是否是暗示他的女儿被继母的阴谋所伤害。无论如何，这只是部分地表达了他对妻子的持续期望。她正要跟着潘西，但他说他希望她留下来。他有话要对她说。然后他在客厅里走了一会儿，而她穿着斗篷站在那儿等着。

‘I don’t understand what you wish to do,’ he said in a moment. ‘I should like to know-so that I may know how to act.’
“我不明白你想做什么，”他立刻说道。 “我想知道——这样我才能知道如何行动。”

‘Just now I wish to go to bed. I’m very tired.’
‘我现在想睡觉。我很累。'

‘Sit down and rest; I shall not keep you long. Not there-take a comfortable place.’ And he arranged a multitude of cushions that were scattered in picturesque disorder upon a vast divan. This was not, however, where she seated herself; she dropped into the nearest chair. The fire had gone out; the lights in the great room were few. She drew her cloak about her; she felt mortally cold. ‘I think you’re trying to humiliate me,’ Osmond went on. ‘It’s a most absurd undertaking.’
‘坐下休息吧；我不会让你久留的。不在那儿——找个舒服的地方。”然后他把许多垫子整齐地散落在一张巨大的沙发上。然而，这不是她坐的地方。她坐到最近的椅子上。火已经灭了；大房间里的灯光很少。她把斗篷披在身上；她感到极其寒冷。 “我认为你想羞辱我，”奥斯蒙德继续说道。 “这是一项最荒谬的事业。”

‘I haven’t the least idea what you mean,’ she returned.
“我一点也不明白你的意思，”她回答道。

‘You’ve played a very deep game; you’ve managed it beautifully.’
‘你玩了一场非常有深度的游戏；你做得很好。”

‘What is it that I’ve managed?’
“我做到了什么？”

‘You’ve not quite settled it, however; we shall see him again.’ And he stopped in front of her, with his hands in his pockets, looking down at her thoughtfully, in his usual way, which seemed meant to let her know that she was not an object, but only a rather disagreeable incident, of thought.
“不过，你还没有完全解决这个问题；我们会再见到他的。”他在她面前停了下来，双手插在口袋里，以他一贯的方式若有所思地低头看着她，这似乎是为了让她知道她不是一个物体，而只是一个物体。相当令人不愉快的事件，思想。

‘If you mean that Lord Warburton’s under an obligation to come back you’re wrong,’ Isabel said. ‘He’s under none whatever.’
“如果你的意思是沃伯顿勋爵有义务回来，那你就错了，”伊莎贝尔说。 “他不属于任何人。”

‘That’s just what I complain of. But when I say he’ll come back I don’t mean he’ll come from a sense of duty.’
‘这正是我所抱怨的。但当我说他会回来时，我并不是说他会出于责任感。”

‘There’s nothing else to make him. I think he has quite exhausted Rome.’
‘没有什么可以让他了。我认为他已经让罗马精疲力竭了。”

‘Ah no, that’s a shallow judgement. Rome’s inexhaustible.’ And Osmond began to walk about again. ‘However, about that perhaps there’s no hurry,’ he added. ‘It’s rather a good idea of his that we should go to England. If it were not for the fear of finding your cousin there I think I should try to persuade you.’
‘啊不，这是一个肤浅的判断。罗马取之不尽，用之不竭。”奥斯蒙德又开始四处走动。 “不过，也许并不着急，”他补充道。 ‘我们应该去英国，这是他的好主意。如果不是因为害怕在那里找到你的表弟，我想我应该尽力说服你。

‘It may be that you’ll not find my cousin,’ said Isabel.
“你可能找不到我的表弟，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘I should like to be sure of it. However, I shall be as sure as possible. At the same time I should like to see his house, that you told me so much about at one time: what do you call it?-Gardencourt. It must be a charming thing. And then, you know, I’ve a devotion to the memory of your uncle: you made me take a great fancy to him. I should like to see where he lived and died. That indeed is a detail. Your friend was right. Pansy ought to see England.’
“我想确定一下。不过，我会尽可能确定。同时我也想看看他的房子，你曾经告诉过我很多关于它的事情：你叫它什么？-花园庭院。这一定是一件很迷人的事情。然后，你知道，我非常怀念你叔叔：你让我非常喜欢他。我想看看他生活和去世的地方。这确实是一个细节。你的朋友是对的。潘西应该去英格兰看看。

‘I’ve no doubt she would enjoy it,’ said Isabel.
“我毫不怀疑她会喜欢它，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘But that’s a long time hence; next autumn’s far off,’ Osmond continued; ‘and meantime there are things that more nearly interest us. Do you think me so very proud?’ he suddenly asked.
“但那已经是很久以前的事情了；明年秋天还很遥远，”奥斯蒙德继续说道。 “与此同时，有些事情更让我们感兴趣。你觉得我很骄傲吗？”他突然问道。

‘I think you very strange.’
“我觉得你很奇怪。”

‘You don’t understand me.’
“你不明白我的意思。”

‘No, not even when you insult me.’
“不，即使你侮辱我也不行。”

‘I don’t insult you; I’m incapable of it. I merely speak of certain facts, and if the allusion’s an injury to you the fault’s not mine. It’s surely a fact that you have kept all this matter quite in your own hands.’
‘我没有侮辱你；我无能为力。我只是说出某些事实，如果暗示对你造成了伤害，那过错不在我。毫无疑问，这一切都掌握在你自己手中。”

‘Are you going back to Lord Warburton?’ Isabel asked. ‘I’m very tired of his name.’
“你要回沃伯顿勋爵那里吗？”伊莎贝尔问道。 “我厌倦了他的名字。”

‘You shall hear it again before we’ve done with it.’
“在我们处理完之前，你会再听到一次。”

She had spoken of his insulting her, but it suddenly seemed to her that this ceased to be a pain. He was going down-down; the vision of such a fall made her almost giddy: that was the only pain. He was too strange, too different; he didn’t touch her. Still, the working of his morbid passion was extraordinary, and she felt a rising curiosity to know in what light he saw himself justified. ‘I might say to you that I judge you’ve nothing to say to me that’s worth hearing,’ she returned in a moment. ‘But I should perhaps be wrong. There’s a thing that would be worth my hearing-to know in the plainest words of what it is you accuse me.’
她曾说过他侮辱了她，但她突然觉得这不再是一种痛苦。他正在走下坡路；这样坠落的景象让她几乎头晕：这是唯一的痛苦。他太奇怪了，太与众不同了；他没有碰她。尽管如此，他病态的热情却发挥了非同寻常的作用，她越来越好奇，想知道他是如何看待自己的正义的。 “我可能会对你说，我认为你对我说的话没有什么值得听的，”她立刻回答道。 “但我也许是错的。有件事值得我听——用最简单的语言知道你在指控我什么。

‘Of having prevented Pansy’s marriage to Warburton. Are those words plain enough?’
‘阻止潘西与沃伯顿结婚。这些话够明白吗？

‘On the contrary, I took a great interest in it. I told you so; and when you told me that you counted on me-that I think was what you said-I accepted the obligation. I was a fool to do so, but I did it.’
‘相反，我对此非常感兴趣。我已经告诉过你了;当你告诉我你依靠我时——我想你就是这么说的——我接受了这个义务。我这样做是个傻瓜，但我还是这么做了。”

‘You pretended to do it, and you even pretended reluctance to make me more willing to trust you. Then you began to use your ingenuity to get him out of the way.’
‘你假装这么做，还假装不情愿，让我更愿意相信你。然后你开始用你的聪明才智把他除掉。

‘I think I see what you mean,’ said Isabel.
“我想我明白你的意思了，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘Where’s the letter you told me he had written me?’ her husband demanded.
“你告诉我他写给我的那封信在哪里？”她丈夫问道。

‘I haven’t the least idea; I haven’t asked him.’
“我一点也不知道；我还没问过他。

‘You stopped it on the way,’ said Osmond.
“你在半路上拦住了它，”奥斯蒙德说。

Isabel slowly got up; standing there in her white cloak, which covered her to her feet, she might have represented the angel of disdain, first cousin to that of pity. ‘Oh, Gilbert, for a man who was so fine-!’ she exclaimed in a long murmur.
伊莎贝尔慢慢地站了起来；她穿着白斗篷站在那里，遮住了她的脚，她可能代表着蔑视天使，怜悯天使的表亲。 “哦，吉尔伯特，一个如此优秀的男人——！”她长长地低声喊道。

‘I was never so fine as you. You’ve done everything you wanted. You’ve got him out of the way without appearing to do so, and you’ve placed me in the position in which you wished to see me-that of a man who has tried to marry his daughter to a lord, but has grotesquely failed.’
‘我从来没有像你这么好过。你已经做了你想做的一切。你把他挡在了一边，但你并没有表现出这样做，你把我放在了你希望看到我的位置上——一个试图把他的女儿嫁给一个领主的男人，但奇怪的是失败的。'

‘Pansy doesn’t care for him. She’s very glad he’s gone,’ Isabel said.
‘潘西不关心他。她很高兴他走了，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘That has nothing to do with the matter.’
“这与此事无关。”

‘And he doesn’t care for Pansy.’
“而且他并不关心潘西。”

‘That won’t do; you told me he did. I don’t know why you wanted this particular satisfaction,’ Osmond continued; ‘you might have taken some other. It doesn’t seem to me that I’ve been presumptuous-that I have taken too much for granted. I’ve been very modest about it, very quiet. The idea didn’t originate with me. He began to show that he liked her before I ever thought of it. I left it all to you.’
‘那不行；你告诉我他做到了。我不知道你为什么想要这种特殊的满足感，”奥斯蒙德继续说道； ‘你可能还拿了一些其他的。在我看来，我并不自以为是——我把太多事情视为理所当然。我对此非常谦虚，非常安静。这个想法不是我提出的。在我想到之前，他就开始表现出他喜欢她。我把这一切都留给了你。

‘Yes, you were very glad to leave it to me. After this you must attend to such things yourself.’
“是的，你很高兴把它留给我。此后你必须自己处理这些事情。

He looked at her a moment; then he turned away. ‘I thought you were very fond of my daughter.’
他看了她一会儿；然后他转身走开。 “我以为你很喜欢我女儿。”

‘I’ve never been more so than to-day.’
“我从来没有像今天这样。”

‘Your affection is attended with immense limitations. However, that perhaps is natural.’
‘你的感情受到极大的限制。然而，这也许是自然的。

‘Is this all you wished to say to me?’ Isabel asked, taking a candle that stood on one of the tables.
“这就是你想对我说的全部吗？”伊莎贝尔问道，拿起桌上的一支蜡烛。

‘Are you satisfied? Am I sufficiently disappointed?’
'你满意吗？我足够失望了吗？

‘I don’t think that on the whole you’re disappointed. You’ve had another opportunity to try to stupefy me.’
“我认为总的来说，你并没有失望。你又有了一次机会来迷惑我。”

‘It’s not that. It’s proved that Pansy can aim high.’
'这并不是说。事实证明，潘西可以志存高远。”

‘Poor little Pansy!’ said Isabel as she turned away with her candle.
“可怜的小潘西！”伊莎贝尔拿着蜡烛转身走开时说道。

Chapter 47
第47章

It was from Henrietta Stackpole that she learned how Caspar Goodwood had come to Rome; an event that took place three days after Lord Warburton’s departure. This latter fact had been preceded by an incident of mg I some importance to Isabel-the temporary absence, once again, of Madame Merle, who had gone to Naples to stay with a friend, the happy possessor of a villa at Posilippo. Madame Merle had ceased to minister to Isabel’s happiness, who found herself wondering whether the most discreet of women might not also by chance be the most dangerous. Sometimes, at night, she had strange visions; she seemed to see her husband and her friend-his friend-in dim, indistinguishable combination. It seemed to her that she had not done with her; this lady had something in reserve. Isabel’s imagination applied itself actively to this elusive point, but every now and then it was checked by a nameless dread, so that when the charming woman was away from Rome she had almost a consciousness of respite. She had already learned from Miss Stackpole that Caspar Goodwood was in Europe, Henrietta having written to make it known to her immediately after meeting him in Paris. He himself never wrote to Isabel, and though he was in Europe she thought it very possible he might not desire to see her. Their last interview, before her marriage, had had quite the character of a complete rupture; if she remembered rightly he had said he wished to take his last look at her. Since then he had been the most discordant survival of her earlier time-the only one in fact with which a permanent pain was associated. He had left her that morning with a sense of the most superfluous of shocks: it was like a collision between vessels in broad daylight. There had been no mist, no hidden current to excuse it, and she herself had only wished to steer wide. He had bumped against her prow, however, while her hand was on the tiller, and-to complete the metaphor-had given the lighter vessel a strain which still occasionally betrayed itself in a faint creaking. It had been horrid to see him, because he represented the only serious harm that (to her belief) she had ever done in the world: he was the only person with an unsatisfied claim on her. She had made him unhappy, she couldn’t help it; and his unhappiness was a grim reality. She had cried with rage, after he had left her, at-she hardly knew what: she tried to think it had been at his want of consideration. He had come to her with his unhappiness when her own bliss was so perfect; he had done his best to darken the brightness of those pure rays. He had not been violent, and yet there had been a violence in the impression. There had been a violence at any rate in something somewhere; perhaps it was only in her own fit of weeping and in that after-sense of the same which had lasted three or four days.
她从亨利埃塔·斯塔克波尔那里得知卡斯帕·古德伍德是如何来到罗马的。沃伯顿勋爵离开三天后发生的事件。在这件事发生之前，发生了一件对伊莎贝尔来说相当重要的事件——梅尔夫人再次暂时缺席，她去那不勒斯和一位朋友住在一起，这位朋友是波西利波一栋别墅的快乐拥有者。梅尔夫人不再为伊莎贝尔的幸福服务，她发现自己在想，最谨慎的女人是否也可能是最危险的。有时，在晚上，她会出现奇怪的幻象。她似乎看到了她的丈夫和她的朋友——他的朋友——模糊、难以区分的组合。她觉得自己还没有和她断绝关系。这位女士有一些保留。伊莎贝尔的想象力积极地运用在这个难以捉摸的点上，但它时不时地被一种无名的恐惧所抑制，所以当这个迷人的女人离开罗马时，她几乎有一种喘息的意识。她已经从斯塔克波尔小姐那里得知卡斯帕·古德伍德在欧洲，亨利埃塔在巴黎见到他后立即写信告知她这一消息。他本人从未写过信给伊莎贝尔，尽管他在欧洲，但她认为他很可能不想见她。他们的最后一次会面是在她结婚之前，已经完全决裂了。如果她没记错的话，他说过他想最后看她一眼。从那时起，他就成了她早年生活中最不和谐的幸存者——事实上，他是唯一一个与永久疼痛相关的人。那天早上他给她留下了一种最多余的震惊：就像光天化日之下船只相撞一样。 没有雾气，也没有隐藏的水流可以作为借口，而她自己只想把船开到更远的地方。然而，当她的手放在舵柄上时，他撞到了她的船头，并且——为了完成这个比喻——给打火机船施加了压力，这种压力仍然偶尔会在微弱的吱吱声中暴露出来。见到他真是太可怕了，因为他代表了她在这个世界上（据她的信念）所造成的唯一严重伤害：他是唯一一个对她提出不满意要求的人。她让他不高兴了，她无法控制；她让他不高兴了。他的不幸是一个严峻的现实。他离开她后，她愤怒地哭了，她几乎不知道是什么：她试图认为这是因为他缺乏考虑。当她自己的幸福如此完美时，他却带着自己的不幸来到了她身边。他已经尽力使那些纯净光芒的亮度变暗了。他并不暴力，但给人的印象却是暴力。无论如何，某处发生了暴力事件；也许这只是她自己的哭泣，以及持续了三四天的哭泣之后的感觉。

The effect of his final appeal had in short faded away, and all the first year of her marriage he had dropped out of her books. He was a thankless subject of reference; it was disagreeable to have to think of a person who was sore and sombre about you and whom you could yet do nothing to relieve. It would have been different if she had been able to doubt, even a little, of his unreconciled state, as she doubted of Lord Warburton’s; unfortunately it was beyond question, and this aggressive, uncompromising look of it was just what made it unattractive. She could never say to herself that here was a sufferer who had compensations, as she was able to say in the case of her English suitor. She had no faith in Mr. Goodwood’s compensations and no esteem for them. A cotton-factory was not a compensation for anything-least of all for having failed to marry Isabel Archer. And yet, beyond that, she hardly knew what he had-save of course his intrinsic qualities. Oh, he was intrinsic enough; she never thought of his even looking for artificial aids. If he extended his business-that, to the best of her belief, was the only form exertion could take with him-it would be because it was an enterprising thing, or good for the business; not in the least because he might hope it would overlay the past. This gave his figure a kind of bareness and bleakness which made the accident of meeting it in memory or in apprehension a peculiar concussion; it was deficient in the social drapery commonly muffling, in an overcivilized age, the sharpness of human contacts. His perfect silence, moreover, the fact that she never heard from him and very seldom heard any mention of him, deepened this impression of his loneliness. She asked Lily for news of him, from time to time; but Lily knew nothing of Boston-her imagination was all bounded on the east by Madison Avenue. As time went on Isabel had thought of him oftener, and with fewer restrictions; she had had more than once the idea of writing to him. She had never told her husband about him-never let Osmond know of his visits to her in Florence; a reserve not dictated in the early period by a want of confidence in Osmond, but simply by the consideration that the young man’s disappointment was not her secret but his own. It would be wrong of her, she had believed, to convey it to another, and Mr. Goodwood’s affairs could have, after all, little interest for Gilbert. When it had come to the point she had never written to him; it seemed to her that, considering his grievance, the least she could do was to let him alone. Nevertheless she would have been glad to be in some way nearer to him. It was not that it ever occurred to her that she might have married him; even after the consequences of her actual union had grown vivid to her that particular reflection, though she indulged in so many, had not had the assurance to present itself. But on finding herself in trouble he had become a member of that circle of things with which she wished to set herself right. I have mentioned how passionately she needed to feel that her unhappiness should not have come to her through her own fault. She had no near prospect of dying, and yet she wished to make her peace with the world-to put her spiritual affairs in order. It came back to her from time to time that there was an account still to be settled with Caspar, and she saw herself disposed or able to settle it to-day on terms easier for him than ever before. Still, when she learned he was coming to Rome she felt all afraid; it would be more disagreeable for him than for any one else to make out-since he would make it out, as over a falsified balance-sheet or something of that sort-the intimate disarray of her affairs. Deep in her breast she believed that he had invested his all in her happiness, while the others had invested only a part. He was one more person from whom she should have to conceal her stress. She was reassured, however, after he arrived in Rome, for he spent several days without coming to see her.
他最后上诉的效果很快就消失了，在她结婚的第一年里，他就从她的记录中消失了。他是一个吃力不讨好的参考对象。想到一个对你感到痛苦和忧郁的人，而你又无能为力去缓解他，这真是令人不舒服。如果她能够像怀疑沃伯顿勋爵那样怀疑他不甘心的状态，即使是一点点，情况也会有所不同。不幸的是，这是毫无疑问的，而这种咄咄逼人、不妥协的外观正是它缺乏吸引力的原因。她永远不能对自己说，这是一个有补偿的受害者，就像她在她的英国追求者的情况下可以说的那样。她对古德伍德先生的报酬没有信心，也不尊重他们。棉花工厂并不是对任何事情的补偿——尤其是对未能与伊莎贝尔·阿切尔结婚的补偿。然而，除此之外，她几乎不知道他有什么——当然除了他的内在品质。哦，他的内心足够强大；她从来没想过自己竟然还要寻找人工辅助工具。如果他扩展他的生意——据她所知，这是他唯一可以采取的努力形式——那将是因为这是一件有进取心的事情，或者对生意有好处;至少不是因为他可能希望它能覆盖过去。这给他的形象带来了一种空虚和凄凉，使得在记忆中或在忧虑中偶然遇到它时产生一种奇特的震荡。在过度文明的时代，它的社会帷幕通常会掩盖人际交往的尖锐性。而且，他完全沉默，事实上，她从未收到他的消息，也很少听到任何人提起他，这加深了他孤独的印象。 她时不时地向莉莉打听他的消息。但莉莉对波士顿一无所知——她的想象力全部局限于东边的麦迪逊大道。随着时间的推移，伊莎贝尔越来越频繁地想起他，而且受到的限制也越来越少。她不止一次产生过给他写信的想法。她从来没有告诉过她丈夫关于他的事——也从来没有让奥斯蒙德知道他去佛罗伦萨拜访过她；早期的这种保留并不是因为对奥斯蒙德缺乏信心，而只是因为考虑到这个年轻人的失望不是她的秘密，而是他自己的秘密。她认为，把这件事转达给别人是错误的，毕竟，古德伍德先生的事情可能对吉尔伯特没什么兴趣。到了这个地步，她就再也没有给他写过信。在她看来，考虑到他的委屈，她至少能做的就是放过他。尽管如此，她还是很高兴能在某种程度上离他更近一些。她从来没有想过自己可能会嫁给他。即使在她实际结合的后果对她来说变得清晰之后，尽管她沉迷于如此多的特殊思考，但仍没有保证将其呈现出来。但当她发现自己陷入困境时，他就成为了她希望纠正自己的那个圈子的一员。我已经提到过，她多么强烈地需要感觉到，她的不幸不应该因为她自己的过错而降临到她身上。她几乎没有死亡的希望，但她希望与世界和解——让她的精神事务井然有序。她时不时地想起，还有一笔账要和卡斯帕算，她发现自己今天已经准备好或者能够按照对他来说比以往任何时候都更容易的条件来算账了。 尽管如此，当她得知他要来罗马时，她还是感到害怕。对他来说，比任何人都更不舒服的是——因为他会发现，就像伪造的资产负债表或类似的东西一样——她的事务的亲密混乱。她内心深处相信，他为她的幸福投入了全部，而其他人只投入了一部分。他又是一个她必须向她隐瞒压力的人。然而，当他到达罗马后，她就放心了，因为他已经好几天没有来看她了。

Henrietta Stackpole, it may well be imagined, was much more punctual, and Isabel was largely favoured with the society of her friend. She threw herself into it, for now that she had made such a point of keeping her conscience clear, that was one way of proving she had not been superficial-the more so as the years, in their flight, had rather enriched than blighted those peculiarities which had been humorously criticized by persons less interested than Isabel, and which were still marked enough to give loyalty a spice of heroism. Henrietta was as keen and quick and fresh as ever, and as neat and bright and fair. Her remarkably open eyes, lighted like great glazed railway-stations, had put up no shutters; her attire had lost none of its crispness, her opinions none of their national reference. She was by no means quite unchanged, however; it struck Isabel she had grown vague. Of old she had never been vague; though undertaking many enquiries at once, she had managed to be entire and pointed about each. She had a reason for everything she did; she fairly bristled with motives. Formerly, when she came to Europe it was because she wished to see it, but now, having already seen it, she had no such excuse. She didn’t for a moment pretend that the desire to examine decaying civilizations had anything to do with her present enterprise; her journey was rather an expression of her independence of the old world than of a sense of further obligations to it. ‘It’s nothing to come to Europe,’ she said to Isabel; ‘it doesn’t seem to me one needs so many reasons for that. It is something to stay at home; this is much more important.’ It was not therefore with a sense of doing anything very important that she treated herself to another pilgrimage to Rome; she had seen the place before and carefully inspected it; her present act was simply a sign of familiarity, of her knowing all about it, of her having as good a right as any one else to be there. This was all very well, and Henrietta was restless; she had a perfect right to be restless too, if one came to that. But she had after all a better reason for coming to Rome than that she cared for it so little. Her friend easily recognized it, and with it the worth of the other’s fidelity. She had crossed the stormy ocean in midwinter because she had guessed that Isabel was sad. Henrietta guessed a great deal, but she had never guessed so happily as that. Isabel’s satisfactions just now were few, but even if they had been more numerous there would still have been something of individual joy in her sense of being justified in having always thought highly of Henrietta. She had made large concessions with regard to her, and had yet insisted that, with all abatements, she was very valuable. It was not her own triumph, however, that she found good; it was simply the relief of confessing to this confidant, the first person to whom she had owned it, that she was not in the least at her ease. Henrietta had herself approached this point with the smallest possible delay, and had accused her to her face of being wretched. She was a woman, she was a sister; she was not Ralph, nor Lord Warburton, nor Caspar Goodwood, and Isabel could speak.
可以想象，亨利埃塔·斯塔克波尔要准时得多，而伊莎贝尔在很大程度上也很受她朋友的欢迎。她全身心地投入其中，因为既然她已经明确了自己的良心，那就是证明她并不肤浅的一种方式——更重要的是，岁月在飞逝中，使那些人变得丰富而不是枯萎。那些比伊莎贝尔更不感兴趣的人曾对这些特性进行过幽默的批评，但这些特性仍然足够明显，足以赋予忠诚以英雄主义的色彩。亨利埃塔一如既往地敏锐、敏捷、新鲜，而且整洁、明亮、白皙。她睁得大大的眼睛，像巨大的玻璃火车站一样明亮，没有拉上百叶窗。她的着装丝毫没有失去清爽的感觉，她的观点也没有失去任何全国性的参考意义。然而，她并没有完全改变。伊莎贝尔突然意识到她变得含糊其辞了。以前她从来都没有含糊过。尽管她同时进行了许多询问，但她还是设法对每一个问题都进行了全面而明确的询问。她所做的一切都是有原因的；她充满了动机。以前她来欧洲是因为想去看看，但现在既然已经看过了，她就没有这样的借口了。她一刻也没有假装检验腐朽文明的愿望与她目前的事业有任何关系；她的旅程更多地表达了她对旧世界的独立，而不是对旧世界的进一步义务感。 “来欧洲没什么大不了的，”她对伊莎贝尔说。 “在我看来，人们不需要那么多理由。这是呆在家里的事；这是更重要的。因此，她并没有打算做任何非常重要的事情，而是再次前往罗马朝圣；她以前曾见过这个地方，并仔细检查过。她现在的举动只是一种熟悉的迹象，表明她了解一切，表明她和其他人一样有权利在那里。一切都很好，但亨利埃塔却焦躁不安。如果有人这么做的话，她也完全有理由焦躁不安。但她毕竟有更好的理由来罗马，而不是因为她对罗马漠不关心。她的朋友很容易就认出了这一点，也认识到了对方忠诚的价值。她在仲冬穿越了波涛汹涌的海洋，因为她猜到伊莎贝尔正在悲伤。亨丽埃塔猜了很多，但她从来没有猜得这么开心。伊莎贝尔刚才的满足感很少，但即使有更多，她仍然会感到有些个人的快乐，因为她觉得自己一直对亨丽埃塔评价很高是有道理的。她对她做出了很大的让步，但仍然坚持认为，尽管做出了种种让步，她还是非常有价值的。然而，她发现的好处并不是她自己的胜利；而是她自己的胜利。向这个知己坦白，她是第一个拥有这本书的人，她感到一点也不自在，这只是一种解脱。亨丽埃塔自己已经尽可能地拖延到了这一点，并当面指责她是不幸的。她是一个女人，她是一个姐妹；她不是拉尔夫，也不是沃伯顿勋爵，也不是卡斯帕·古德伍德，伊莎贝尔会说话。

‘Yes, I’m wretched,’ she said very mildly. She hated to hear herself say it; she tried to say it as judicially as possible.
“是的，我很可怜，”她非常温和地说。她讨厌听自己这么说。她试图尽可能公正地说出这句话。

‘What does he do to you?’ Henrietta asked, frowning as if she were enquiring into the operations of a quack doctor.
“他对你做了什么？”亨丽埃塔问道，皱着眉头，仿佛在询问庸医的手术。

‘He does nothing. But he doesn’t like me.’
‘他什么也没做。但他不喜欢我。

‘He’s very hard to please!’ cried Miss Stackpole. ‘Why don’t you leave him?’
“他很难取悦！”斯塔克波尔小姐喊道。 “你为什么不离开他？”

‘I can’t change that way,’ Isabel said.
“我无法改变这一点，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘Why not, I should like to know? You won’t confess that you’ve made a mistake. You’re too proud.’
‘为什么不呢，我很想知道？你不会承认自己犯了错误。你太骄傲了。

‘I don’t know whether I’m too proud. But I can’t publish my mistake. I don’t think that’s decent. I’d much rather die.’
‘我不知道我是否太骄傲了。但我不能公开我的错误。我认为这不太好。我宁愿死。

‘You won’t think so always,’ said Henrietta.
“你不会总是这么想，”亨丽埃塔说。

‘I don’t know what great unhappiness might bring me to; but it seems to me I shall always be ashamed. One must accept one’s deeds. I married him before all the world; I was perfectly free; it was impossible to do anything more deliberate. One can’t change that way,’ Isabel repeated.
“我不知道巨大的不幸会给我带来什么；但在我看来，我将永远感到羞耻。一个人必须接受自己的行为。我在全世界面前嫁给了他；我完全自由了；不可能做任何更加深思熟虑的事情。人们无法改变这种方式，”伊莎贝尔重复道。

‘You have changed, in spite of the impossibility. I hope you don’t mean to say you like him.’
‘尽管这是不可能的，但你已经改变了。我希望你不是故意说你喜欢他。

Isabel debated. ‘No, I don’t like him. I can tell you, because I’m weary of my secret. But that’s enough; I can’t announce it on the housetops.’
伊莎贝尔辩论道。 ‘不，我不喜欢他。我可以告诉你，因为我厌倦了我的秘密。但这已经足够了；我不能在屋顶上宣布这一点。

Henrietta gave a laugh. ‘Don’t you think you’re rather too considerate?’
亨丽埃塔笑了。 “你不觉得你太体贴了吗？”

‘It’s not of him that I’m considerate-it’s of myself!’ Isabel answered.
“我不是为他着想，而是为我自己着想！”伊莎贝尔回答道。

It was not surprising Gilbert Osmond should not have taken comfort in Miss Stackpole; his instinct had naturally set him in opposition to a young lady capable of advising his wife to withdraw from the conjugal roof.
吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德没有从斯塔克波尔小姐那里得到安慰，这并不奇怪。他的本能自然而然地反对一位能够建议他的妻子退出婚姻屋顶的年轻女士。

When she arrived in Rome he had said to Isabel that he hoped she would leave her friend the interviewer alone; and Isabel had answered that he at least had nothing to fear from her. She said to Henrietta that as Osmond didn’t like her she couldn’t invite her to dine, but they could easily see each other in other ways. Isabel received Miss Stackpole freely in her own sitting-room, and took her repeatedly to drive, face to face with Pansy, who, bending a little forward, on the opposite seat of the carriage, gazed at the celebrated authoress with a respectful attention which Henrietta occasionally found irritating. She complained to Isabel that Miss Osmond had a little look as if she should remember everything one said. ‘I don’t want to be remembered that way,’ Miss Stackpole declared; ‘I consider that my conversation refers only to the moment, like the morning papers. Your stepdaughter, as she sits there, looks as if she kept all the back numbers and would bring them out some day against me.’ She could not teach herself to think favourably of Pansy, whose absence of initiative, of conversation, of personal claims, seemed to her, in a girl of twenty, unnatural and even uncanny. Isabel presently saw that Osmond would have liked her to urge a little the cause of her friend, insist a little upon his receiving her, so that he might appear to suffer for good manners’ sake. Her immediate acceptance of his objections put him too much in the wrong-it being in effect one of the disadvantages of expressing contempt that you cannot enjoy at the same time the credit of expressing sympathy. Osmond held to his credit, and yet he held to his objections-all of which were elements difficult to reconcile. The right thing would have been that Miss Stackpole should come to dine at Palazzo Roccanera once or twice, so that (in spite of his superficial civility, always so great) she might judge for herself how little pleasure it gave him. From the moment, however, that both the ladies were so unaccommodating, there was nothing for Osmond but to wish the lady from New York would take herself off. It was surprising how little satisfaction he got from his wife’s friends; he took occasion to call Isabel’s attention to it.
当她到达罗马时，他对伊莎贝尔说，他希望她不要打扰她的采访者朋友；伊莎贝尔回答说，他至少不用担心她。她对亨利埃塔说，由于奥斯蒙德不喜欢她，所以不能邀请她吃饭，但他们可以很容易地以其他方式看到对方。伊莎贝尔在自己的起居室里自由地接待了斯塔克波尔小姐，并多次带她开车，与潘西面对面，潘西在车厢对面的座位上稍微向前倾，用一种恭敬的目光注视着这位著名的女作家。亨丽埃塔有时会感到恼火。她向伊莎贝尔抱怨说，奥斯蒙德小姐看上去有点像她应该记住别人所说的一切。 “我不想以这种方式被人记住，”斯塔克波尔小姐宣称。 “我认为我的谈话只涉及当下，就像晨报一样。你的继女坐在那里，看起来好像她保留了所有的过往数据，有一天会把它们拿出来反对我。”她无法教会自己对潘西抱有好感，她缺乏主动性，不爱说话，也没有个人主张。在她看来，对于一个二十岁的女孩来说，这是不自然的，甚至是不可思议的。伊莎贝尔很快就发现奥斯蒙德希望她能稍微敦促一下她朋友的事业，坚持一点让他接待她，这样他就可以显得出于礼貌而受苦。她立即​​接受了他的反对意见，这让他错了太多——这实际上是表达蔑视的缺点之一，你不能同时享受表达同情的功劳。奥斯蒙德坚持自己的信誉，但他也坚持自己的反对意见——所有这些都是难以调和的因素。 正确的做法是斯塔克波尔小姐应该来罗卡内拉宫吃一两次饭，这样（尽管他表面上彬彬有礼，但总是那么好）她可以自己判断这给他带来了多少快乐。然而，从这两位女士如此不友善的那一刻起，奥斯蒙德就只能希望这位来自纽约的女士滚开。令人惊讶的是，他从妻子的朋友那里得到的满足感是如此之少。他找机会提请伊莎贝尔注意这件事。

‘You’re certainly not fortunate in your intimates; I wish you might make a new collection,’ he said to her one morning in reference to nothing visible at the moment, but in a tone of ripe reflection which deprived the remark of all brutal abruptness. ‘It’s as if you had taken the trouble to pick out the people in the world that I have least in common with. Your cousin I have always thought a conceited ass-besides his being the most ill-favoured animal I know. Then it’s insufferably tiresome that one can’t tell him so; one must spare him on account of his health. His health seems to me the best part of him; it gives him privileges enjoyed by no one else. If he’s so desperately ill there’s only one way to prove it; but he seems to have no mind for that. I can’t say much more for the great Warburton. When one really thinks of it, the cool insolence of that performance was something rare! He comes and looks at one’s daughter as if she were a suite of apartments; he tries the door-handles and looks out of the windows, raps on the walls and almost thinks he’ll take the place. Will you be so good as to draw up a lease? Then, on the whole, he decides that the rooms are too small; he doesn’t think he could live on a third floor; he must look out for a piano nobile. And he goes away after having got a month’s lodging in the poor little apartment for nothing. Miss Stackpole, however, is your most wonderful invention. She strikes me as a kind of monster. One hasn’t a nerve in one’s body that she doesn’t set quivering. You know I never have admitted that she’s a woman. Do you know what she reminds me of? Of a new steel pen-the most odious thing in nature. She talks as a steel pen writes; aren’t her letters, by the way, on ruled paper? She thinks and moves and walks and looks exactly as she talks. You may say that she doesn’t hurt me, inasmuch as I don’t see her. I don’t see her, but I hear her; I hear her all day long. Her voice is in my ears; I can’t get rid of it. I know exactly what she says, and every inflexion of the tone in which she says it. She says charming things about me, and they give you great comfort. I don’t like at all to think she talks about me-I feel as I should feel if I knew the footman were wearing my hat.’
“你的亲密朋友肯定不幸运；我希望你能制作一个新系列。”一天早上，他对她说，当时没有任何可见的东西，但他的语气是成熟的反思，消除了所有残酷的唐突。 ‘就好像你不厌其烦地挑选出世界上与我最没有共同点的人一样。我一直认为你的表弟是个自负的混蛋——而且他是我认识的最不受欢迎的动物。如果不能告诉他这一点，那就太烦人了。为了他的健康，我们必须饶恕他。在我看来，他的健康是他最好的部分。它给了他其他人没有享有的特权。如果他病得如此严重，只有一种方法可以证明这一点：但他似乎对此并不介意。对于伟大的沃伯顿，我不能再说太多了。仔细想来，那种冷酷无礼的表现，实属罕见！他来了，看着自己的女儿，就好像她是一套公寓一样；他试了试门把手，朝窗外望去，敲打着墙壁，几乎以为自己会占据这个位置。你愿意起草一份租约吗？然后，总的来说，他认为房间太小了；他认为他不能住在三楼；他必须寻找一位钢琴贵族。他在这间可怜的小公寓里免费住了一个月后就离开了。然而，斯塔克波尔小姐是你最精彩的发明。她给我的印象就像是一个怪物。人身上的每一根神经都会因她而颤抖。你知道我从来没有承认过她是女人。你知道她让我想起什么吗？一支新钢笔——自然界中最令人厌恶的东西。她说话就像钢笔写字一样；顺便问一下，她的信不是写在格纸上的吗？ 她的思考、行动、走路和表情都与她说话的一样。你可能会说她不会伤害我，因为我看不到她。我看不见她，但我听见她的声音；我整天都听到她的声音。她的声音在我耳边；我无法摆脱它。我清楚地知道她在说什么，以及她说话时语气的每一个变化。她对我说了一些迷人的话，这给了你很大的安慰。我一点也不喜欢她谈论我——如果我知道男仆戴着我的帽子，我就会有这种感觉。’

Henrietta talked about Gilbert Osmond, as his wife assured him, rather less than he suspected. She had plenty of other subjects, in two of which the reader may be supposed to be especially interested. She let her friend know that Caspar Goodwood had discovered for himself that she was unhappy, though indeed her ingenuity was unable to suggest what comfort he hoped to give her by coming to Rome and yet not calling on her. They met him twice in the street, but he had no appearance of seeing them; they were driving, and he had a habit of looking straight in front of him, as if he proposed to take in but one object at a time. Isabel could have fancied she had seen him the day before; it must have been with just that face and step that he had walked out of Mrs. Touchett’s door at the close of their last interview. He was dressed just as he had been dressed on that day, Isabel remembered the colour of his cravat; and yet in spite of this familiar look there was a strangeness in his figure too, something that made her feel it afresh to be rather terrible he should have come to Rome. He looked bigger and more overtopping than of old, and in those days he certainly reached high enough. She noticed that the people whom he passed looked back after him; but he went straight forward, lifting above them a face like a February sky.
正如他的妻子向他保证的那样，亨利埃塔谈到了吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德，而且比他想象的要少。她还有很多其他主题，读者可能对其中两个特别感兴趣。她让她的朋友知道，卡斯帕·古德伍德亲自发现她不高兴，尽管她的聪明才智确实无法表明他希望通过来到罗马而不拜访她来给她带来什么安慰。他们在街上遇见了他两次，但他并没有看见他们。他们在开车，他习惯于直视前方，仿佛他打算一次只看一个物体。伊莎贝尔本可以想象她前一天就见过他；但事实并非如此。在他们上次会面结束时，他一定就是以那样的表情和步伐走出了图切特夫人的门。他的穿着和那天一模一样，伊莎贝尔记得他领带的颜色；然而，尽管他的外表很熟悉，但他的身材也有一种奇怪的感觉，这让她重新感到他应该来罗马是相当可怕的。他看上去比以前更加高大，更加高大，在那些日子里，他确实达到了足够高的高度。她注意到他经过的人都回头看着他。但他径直向前走，在他们上方举起一张像二月天空一样的脸。

Miss Stackpole’s other topic was very different; she gave Isabel the latest news about Mr. Bantling. He had been out in the United States the year before, and she was happy to say she had been able to show him considerable attention. She didn’t know how much he had enjoyed it, but she would undertake to say it had done him good; he wasn’t the same man when he left as he had been when he came. It had opened his eyes and shown him that England wasn’t everything. He had been very much liked in most places, and thought extremely simple-more simple than the English were commonly supposed to be. There were people who had thought him affected; she didn’t know whether they meant that his simplicity was an affectation. Some of his questions were too discouraging; he thought all the chambermaids were farmers’ daughters-or all the farmers’ daughters were chambermaids-she couldn’t exactly remember which. He hadn’t seemed able to grasp the great school system; it had been really too much for him. On the whole he had behaved as if there were too much of everything-a if he could only take in a small part. The part he had chosen was the hotel system and the river navigation. He had seemed really fascinated with the hotels; he had a photograph of every one he had visited. But the river steamers were his principal interest; he wanted to do nothing but sail on the big boats. They had travelled together from New York to Milwaukee, stopping at the most interesting cities on the route; and whenever they started afresh he had wanted to know if they could go by the steamer. He seemed to have no idea of geography-had an impression that Baltimore was a Western city and was perpetually expecting to arrive at the Mississippi. He appeared never to have heard of any river in America but the Mississippi and was unprepared to recognize the existence of the Hudson, though obliged to confess at last that it was fully equal to the Rhine. They had spent some pleasant hours in the palace-cars; he was always ordering ice-cream from the coloured man. He could never get used to that idea-that you could get ice-cream in the cars. Of course you couldn’t, nor fans, nor candy, nor anything in the English cars! He found the heat quite overwhelming, and she had told him she indeed expected it was the biggest he had ever experienced. He was now in England, hunting-”hunting round’ Henrietta called it. These amusements were those of the American red men; we had left that behind long ago, the pleasures of the chase. It seemed to be generally believed in England that we wore tomahawks and feathers; but such a costume was more in keeping with English habits. Mr. Bantling would not have time to join her in Italy, but when she should go to Paris again he expected to come over. He wanted very much to see Versailles again; he was very fond of the ancient regime.
斯塔克波尔小姐的另一个话题则非常不同。她向伊莎贝尔透露了有关班特林先生的最新消息。他前一年去过美国，她很高兴地说她能够对他表现出相当大的关注。她不知道他有多喜欢这一切，但她敢说这对他有好处。他离开时和来时已不再是同一个人。这让他大开眼界，让他知道英格兰并不是一切。他在大多数地方都很受欢迎，而且思想极其简单——比英国人通常认为的还要简单。有些人认为他受到了影响；但事实并非如此。她不知道他们的意思是否是他的单纯是一种做作。他的一些问题太令人沮丧了；他以为所有的女服务员都是农民的女儿——或者说所有农民的女儿都是女服务员——她记不清是哪一个了。他似乎无法掌握伟大的学校制度；这对他来说实在是太过分了。总的来说，他表现得好像一切都太多了——如果他只能接受一小部分的话。他选择的部分是酒店系统和河运。他似乎对酒店很着迷。他有一张他拜访过的每个人的照片。但内河轮船才是他的主要兴趣。他什么都不想做，只想驾着大船航行。他们一起从纽约飞往密尔沃基，沿途在最有趣的城市停留。每当他们重新出发时，他都想知道他们是否可以乘轮船去。他似乎对地理一窍不通，印象中巴尔的摩是一座西部城市，永远期待着到达密西西比河。 除了密西西比河之外，他似乎从未听说过美国的任何河流，也没有准备好承认哈德逊河的存在，尽管最后不得不承认它与莱茵河完全相等。他们在宫车里度过了一些愉快的时光。他总是向黑人点冰淇淋。他永远无法适应这个想法——你可以在车里买到冰淇淋。当然你不能，车迷、糖果、英国车里的任何东西都不能！他发现天气非常炎热，而她告诉他，她确实预计这是他经历过的最热的天气。他现在在英国打猎——亨丽埃塔称之为“狩猎”。这些娱乐是美国红人的娱乐。我们很久以前就已经把追逐的乐趣抛在脑后了。在英国，人们似乎普遍认为我们戴着战斧和羽毛；但这样的服装更符合英国人的习惯。班特林先生没有时间去意大利和她会合，但当她再次去巴黎时，他希望能过来。他非常想再次见到凡尔赛宫。他非常喜欢古代政权。

They didn’t agree about that, but that was what she liked Versailles for, that you could see the ancient rigime had been swept away. There were no dukes and marquises there now; she remembered on the contrary one day when there were five American families, walking all round. Mr. Bantling was very anxious that she should take up the subject of England again, and he thought she might get on better with it now; England had changed a good deal within two or three years. He was determined that if she went there he should go to see his sister, Lady Pensil, and that this time the invitation should come to her straight. The mystery about that other one had never been explained.
他们对此意见不一，但这就是她喜欢凡尔赛宫的原因，你可以看到古老的制度已经被一扫而空。现在那里已经没有公爵和侯爵了。相反，她记得有一天有五个美国家庭在周围散步。班特林先生非常渴望她再次谈论英国这个话题，他认为她现在可能会相处得更好。英格兰在两三年内发生了很大变化。他决定，如果她去那里，他就应该去见他的妹妹彭西尔夫人，而这一次邀请应该直接发给她。另一个谜团从未被解释过。

Caspar Goodwood came at last to Palazzo Roccanera; he had written Isabel a note beforehand, to ask leave. This was promptly granted; she would be at home at six o’clock that afternoon. She spent the day wondering what he was coming for-what good he expected to get of it. He had presented himself hitherto as a person destitute of the faculty of compromise, who would take what he had asked for or take nothing. Isabel’s hospitality, however, raised no questions, and she found no great difficulty in appearing happy enough to deceive him. It was her conviction at least that she deceived him, made him say to himself that he had been misinformed. But she also saw, so she believed, that he was not disappointed, as some other men, she was sure, would have been; he had not come to Rome to look for an opportunity. She never found out what he had come for; he offered her no explanation; there could be none but the very simple one that he wanted to see her. In other words he had come for his amusement. Isabel followed up this induction with a good deal of eagerness, and was delighted to have found a formula that would lay the ghost of this gentleman’s ancient grievance. If he had come to Rome for his amusement this was exactly what she wanted; for if he cared for amusement he had got over his heartache. If he had got over his heartache everything was as it should be and her responsibilities were at an end. It was true that he took his recreation a little stiffly, but he had never been loose and easy and she had every reason to believe he was satisfied with what he saw. Henrietta was not in his confidence, though he was in hers, and Isabel consequently received no side-light upon his state of mind. He was open to little conversation on general topics; it came back to her that she had said of him once, years before, ‘Mr. Goodwood speaks a good deal, but he doesn’t talk.’ He spoke a good deal now, but he talked perhaps as little as ever; considering, that is, how much there was in Rome to talk about. His arrival was not calculated to simplify her relations with her husband, for if Mr. Osmond didn’t like her friends Mr. Goodwood had no claim upon his attention save as having been one of the first of them. There was nothing for her to say of him but that he was the very oldest; this rather meagre synthesis exhausted the facts. She had been obliged to introduce him to Gilbert; it was impossible she should not ask him to dinner, to her Thursday evenings, of which she had grown very weary, but to which her husband still held for the sake not so much of inviting people as of not inviting them.
卡斯帕·古德伍德终于来到了罗卡内拉宫。他事先给伊莎贝尔写了一张便条，请假。这很快就得到了批准；那天下午六点她会在家。她一整天都在想他来这里的目的是什么——他希望从中得到什么好处。迄今为止，他一直把自己表现为一个缺乏妥协能力的人，要么接受他所要求的，要么什么也不接受。然而，伊莎贝尔的热情好客并没有引起任何问题，而且她发现表现出足够高兴来欺骗他并不困难。至少她确信她欺骗了他，让他对自己说他被误导了。但她也看到，所以她相信，他并没有像其他男人那样失望，她确信，他会失望。他来罗马并不是为了寻找机会。她始终不明白他来这里的目的；他没有向她提供任何解释；没有什么比这更简单的了，他想见她。换句话说，他是来寻乐的。伊莎贝尔非常热切地跟进了这一归纳，并很高兴找到了一个公式，可以消除这位绅士古老的怨恨的幽灵。如果他来罗马是为了消遣的话，这正是她想要的。因为如果他喜欢娱乐，他就已经克服了心痛。如果他已经克服了心痛，一切都会如期而至，她的责任也就结束了。确实，他的娱乐方式有些拘谨，但他从来没有放松过，她完全有理由相信他对所看到的感到满意。尽管亨丽埃塔对她很信任，但他却对他不信任，因此伊莎贝尔也没有从侧面了解他的心理状态。 他对一般话题的谈话持开放态度。她回想起几年前她曾经说过一次他，“先生”。古德伍德说得很多，但他不说话。”他现在说得很多，但他说的也许和以前一样少；考虑到罗马有多少事情可谈。他的到来并不是为了简化她与丈夫的关系，因为如果奥斯蒙德先生不喜欢她的朋友，那么古德伍德先生就不会引起他的注意，除非他是第一批朋友之一。关于他，她无话可说，只是说他是最年长的。这种相当贫乏的综合详尽地阐述了事实。她不得不把他介绍给吉尔伯特。她不可能不邀请他共进晚餐，去她的周四晚上，她已经厌倦了，但她的丈夫仍然坚持参加，与其说是邀请人们，不如说是不邀请他们。

To the Thursdays Mr. Goodwood came regularly, solemnly, rather early; he appeared to regard them with a good deal of gravity. Isabel every now and then had a moment of anger; there was something so literal about him; she thought he might know that she didn’t know what to do with him. But she couldn’t call him stupid; he was not that in the least; he was only extraordinarily honest. To be as honest as that made a man very different from most people; one had to be almost equally honest with him. She made this latter reflection at the very time she was flattering herself she had persuaded him that she was the most light-hearted of women. He never threw any doubt on this point, never asked her any personal questions. He got on much better with Osmond than had seemed probable. Osmond had a great dislike to being counted on; in such a case he had an irresistible need of disappointing you. It was in virtue of this principle that he gave himself the entertainment of taking a fancy to a perpendicular Bostonian whom he had been depended upon to treat with coldness. He asked Isabel if Mr. Goodwood also had wanted to marry her, and expressed surprise at her not having accepted him. It would have been an excellent thing, like living under some tall belfry which would strike all the hours and make a queer vibration in the upper air. He declared he liked to talk with the great Goodwood; it wasn’t easy at first, you had to climb up an interminable steep staircase, up to the top of the tower; but when you got there you had a big view and felt a little fresh breeze. Osmond, as we know, had delightful qualities, and he gave Caspar Goodwood the benefit of them all. Isabel could see that Mr. Goodwood thought better of her husband than he had ever wished to; he had given her the impression that morning in Florence of being inaccessible to a good impression. Gilbert asked him repeatedly to dinner, and Mr. Goodwood smoked a cigar with him afterwards and even desired to be shown his collections. Gilbert said to Isabel that he was very original; he was as strong and of as good a style as an English portmanteau-he had plenty of straps and buckles which would never wear out, and a capital patent lock. Caspar Goodwood took to riding on the Campagna and devoted much time to this exercise; it was therefore mainly in the evening that Isabel saw him. She bethought herself of saying to him one day that if he were willing he could render her a service. And then she added smiling:
每到周四，古德伍德先生都会定期、庄严地来，而且来得比较早。他似乎很严肃地对待他们。伊莎贝尔时不时地会生气。他身上有一种非常真实的东西。她认为他可能知道她不知道该拿他做什么。但她不能说他愚蠢；她不能说他愚蠢。他根本不是那样的人。他只是非常诚实。诚实地做到这一点，使一个人与大多数人截然不同。人们必须对他几乎同样诚实。当她自以为已经说服他相信她是最无忧无虑的女人时，她做出了后一种思考。他从来没有对这一点提出过任何怀疑，也没有问过她任何私人问题。他和奥斯蒙德的关系比想象中要好得多。奥斯蒙德非常不喜欢被人指望。在这种情况下，他有一种无法抗拒的需要让你失望。正是由于这一原则，他才给自己带来了乐趣，喜欢上了一个性格直率的波士顿人，而他一直依赖他冷漠地对待他。他问伊莎贝尔古德伍德先生是否也想娶她，并对她没有接受他表示惊讶。这将是一件很棒的事情，就像生活在一些高大的钟楼下一样，钟楼会全天候敲响，并在高空发出奇怪的振动。他宣称他喜欢与伟大的古德伍德交谈。一开始并不容易，你必须爬上无休无止的陡峭楼梯，到达塔顶；但当你到达那里时，你会看到广阔的景色，并感受到一丝清新的微风。正如我们所知，奥斯蒙德具有令人愉快的品质，他让卡斯帕·古德伍德受益匪浅。伊莎贝尔看得出来，先生。 古德伍德对她丈夫的评价超出了他的想象。那天早上在佛罗伦萨，他给她的印象是很难给她留下好印象。吉尔伯特多次邀请他共进晚餐，古德伍德先生随后与他一起抽雪茄，甚至希望展示他的收藏品。吉尔伯特对伊莎贝尔说，他很有创意。他像一个英国混装车一样强壮，风格也很好——他有很多永远不会磨损的带子和带扣，还有一把大号专利锁。卡斯帕·古德伍德 (Caspar Goodwood) 喜欢在坎帕尼亚 (Campagna) 上骑行，并投入了大量时间进行这项练习。因此，伊莎贝尔主要是在晚上见到他。她想有一天对他说，如果他愿意，他可以为她提供服务。 然后她微笑着补充道：

‘I don’t know, however, what right I have to ask a service of you.’
“但是，我不知道我有什么权利要求你提供服务。”

‘You’re the person in the world who has most right,’ he answered.
“你是世界上最有权利的人，”他回答道。

‘I’ve given you assurances that I’ve never given any one else.’
“我已经向你保证过，我从未向其他任何人保证过。”

The service was that he should go and see her cousin Ralph, who was ill at the Hotel de Paris, alone, and be as kind to him as possible. Mr. Goodwood had never seen him, but he would know who the poor fellow was; if she was not mistaken Ralph had once invited him to Gardencourt. Caspar remembered the invitation perfectly, and, though he was not supposed to be a man of imagination, had enough to put himself in the place of a poor gentleman who lay dying at a Roman inn. He called at the Hotel de Paris and, on being shown into the presence of the master of Gardencourt, found Miss Stackpole sitting beside his sofa. A singular change had in fact occurred in this lady’s relations with Ralph Touchett. She had not been asked by Isabel to go and see him, but on hearing that he was too ill to come out had immediately gone of her own motion. After this she had paid him a daily visit-always under the conviction that they were great enemies. ‘Oh yes, we’re intimate enemies,’ Ralph used to say; and he accused her freely-as freely as the humour of it would allow-of coming to worry him to death. In reality they became excellent friends, Henrietta much wondering that she should never have liked him before. Ralph liked her exactly as much as he had always done; he had never doubted for a moment that she was an excellent fellow. They talked about everything and always differed; about everything, that is, but Isabel-a topic as to which Ralph always had a thin forefinger on his lips. Mr. Bantling on the other hand proved a great resource; Ralph was capable of discussing Mr. Bantling with Henrietta for hours. Discussion was stimulated of course by their inevitable difference of view-Ralph having amused himself with taking the ground that the genial ex-guardsman was a regular Machiavelli. Caspar Goodwood could contribute nothing to such a debate; but after he had been left alone with his host he found there were various other matters they could take up. It must be admitted that the lady who had just gone out was not one of these; Caspar granted all Miss Stackpole’s merits in advance, but had no further remark to make about her. Neither, after the first allusions, did the two men expatiate upon Mrs. Osmond-a theme in which Goodwood perceived as many dangers as Ralph. He felt very sorry for that unclassable personage; he couldn’t bear to see a pleasant man, so pleasant for all his queerness, so beyond anything to be done. There was always something to be done, for Goodwood, and he did it in this case by repeating several times his visit to the Hotel de Paris. It seemed to Isabel that she had been very clever; she had artfully disposed of the superfluous Caspar. She had given him an occupation; she had converted him into a caretaker of Ralph. She had a plan of making him travel northward with her cousin as soon as the first mild weather should allow it. Lord Warburton had brought Ralph to Rome and Mr. Goodwood should take him away. There seemed a happy symmetry in this, and she was now intensely eager that Ralph should depart. She had a constant fear he would die there before her eyes and a horror of the occurrence of this event at an inn, by her door, which he had so rarely entered. Ralph must sink to his last rest in his own dear house, in one of those deep, dim chambers of Gardencourt where the dark ivy would cluster round the edges of the glimmering window. There seemed to Isabel in these days something sacred in Gardencourt; no chapter of the past was more perfectly irrecoverable. When she thought of the months she had spent there the tears rose to her eyes. She flattered herself, as I say, upon her ingenuity, but she had need of all she could muster; for several events occurred which seemed to confront and defy her. The Countess Gemini arrived from Florence-arrived with her trunks, her dresses, her chatter, her falsehoods, her frivolity, the strange, the unholy legend of the number of her lovers. Edward Rosier, who had been away somewhere-no one, not even Pansy, knew where-reappeared in Rome and began to write her long letters, which she never answered. Madame Merle returned from Naples and said to her with a strange smile: ‘What on earth did you do with Lord Warburton?’ As if it were any business of hers!
服务是他应该独自去巴黎饭店看望她生病的表弟拉尔夫，并尽可能善待他。古德伍德先生从未见过他，但他知道这个可怜的家伙是谁。如果她没记错的话，拉尔夫曾经邀请他去花园庭院。卡斯帕清楚地记得这个邀请，尽管他不应该是一个富有想象力的人，但他足以将自己想象成一位在罗马旅馆里垂死的可怜绅士。他去了巴黎饭店，在被带到花园庭院主人面前时，发现斯塔克波尔小姐坐在他的沙发旁边。事实上，这位女士与拉尔夫·图切特的关系发生了奇异的变化。伊莎贝尔并没有要求她去看他，但当她听说他病得太重而不能出去时，她立即主动走了。此后，她每天都去拜访他——始终坚信他们是死敌。 “哦，是的，我们是亲密的敌人，”拉尔夫常说；他随意地指责她——尽可能地随意地指责她让他担心得要死。事实上，他们成了极好的朋友，亨利埃塔很想知道她以前不应该喜欢他。拉尔夫一如既往地喜欢她。他从来没有怀疑过她是一个优秀的人。他们无所不谈，但总是意见分歧。一切事情，就是说，除了伊莎贝尔——拉尔夫总是把一根细细的食指放在嘴唇上。另一方面，班特林先生被证明是一个很好的资源。拉尔夫能够与亨利埃塔讨论班特林先生几个小时。当然，他们不可避免的观点分歧引发了讨论——拉尔夫以这位和蔼可亲的前卫兵是一个普通的马基雅维利为借口自娱自乐。 卡斯帕·古德伍德对这样的争论没有任何贡献。但当他单独和主人在一起后，他发现他们还有很多其他事情可以处理。必须承认，刚才出去的那位女士不是其中之一；她是一位女士。卡斯帕事先认可了斯塔克波尔小姐的所有优点，但没有对她做进一步的评论。在第一次暗示之后，这两个人也没有详细阐述奥斯蒙德夫人——在这个主题上，古德伍德和拉尔夫一样感受到了许多危险。他对这个无品位的人物感到非常遗憾。他无法忍受看到一个令人愉快的人，尽管他的怪癖如此令人愉快，却无能为力。对于古德伍德来说，总有事情要做，在这种情况下，他通过多次重复访问巴黎饭店来做到这一点。伊莎贝尔觉得她很聪明。她巧妙地处理掉了多余的卡斯帕。她给了他一份职业；她把他变成了拉尔夫的看护者。她计划在第一个温和的天气允许的情况下让他和她的表弟一起向北旅行。沃伯顿勋爵把拉尔夫带到了罗马，古德伍德先生应该把他带走。这似乎是一种幸福的对称，她现在非常渴望拉尔夫离开。她一直担心他会死在她眼前，也害怕这件事发生在她家门口的一家旅馆里，而他很少进过那家旅馆。拉尔夫必须在他自己亲爱的房子里，在花园庭院那些又深又昏暗的房间之一里，沉入最后的休息，那里，黑色的常春藤聚集在微光窗户的边缘。如今，伊莎贝尔觉得花园庭院里有某种神圣的东西。过去的任何一章都无法挽回。 当她想到自己在那里度过的几个月时，她的眼泪就夺眶而出。正如我所说，她对自己的聪明才智感到自鸣得意，但她需要她能聚集的一切；因为发生了几件似乎与她对抗和反抗的事件。双子伯爵夫人从佛罗伦萨来了——带来了她的箱子、她的衣服、她的喋喋不休、她的谎言、她的轻浮、她的情人数量的奇怪、邪恶的传说。爱德华·罗齐尔去了某个地方——没人知道，甚至潘西也不知道在哪里——又出现在罗马，开始写长信，但她从未回复。梅尔夫人从那不勒斯回来，带着奇怪的微笑对她说：“你到底对沃伯顿勋爵做了什么？”好像这与她无关！

Chapter 48
第48章

One day, toward the end of February, Ralph Touchett made up his mind to return to England. He had his own reasons for this decision, which he was not bound to communicate; but Henrietta Stackpole, to whom he mentioned his intention, flattered herself that she guessed them. She forebore to express them, however; she only said, after a moment, as she sat by his sofa:
二月底的一天，拉尔夫·图切特决定返回英国。他做出这个决定有他自己的理由，但他没有义务表达出来。但亨利埃塔·斯塔克波尔在向她提及自己的意图后，自以为自己猜到了。然而，她却忍住没有表达出来。过了一会儿，她坐在他的沙发旁才说道：

‘I suppose you know you can’t go alone?’
“我想你知道你不能一个人去吗？”

‘I’ve no idea of doing that,’ Ralph answered. ‘I shall have people with me.’
“我不知道这么做，”拉尔夫回答道。 “我会有人陪着我。”

‘What do you mean by ‘people’? Servants whom you pay?’
‘你所说的‘人’是什么意思？你付钱给谁的仆人？

‘Ah,’ said Ralph jocosely, ‘after all, they’re human beings.’
“啊，”拉尔夫开玩笑地说，“毕竟，他们也是人类。”

‘Are there any women among them?’ Miss Stackpole desired to know.
“他们当中有女性吗？”斯塔克波尔小姐想知道。

‘You speak as if I had a dozen! No, I confess I haven’t a soubrette in my employment.’
‘你说得好像我有十几个一样！不，我承认我的工作中没有女红娘。

‘Well,’ said Henrietta calmly, ‘you can’t go to England that way. You must have a woman’s care.’
“好吧，”亨丽埃塔平静地说，“你不能那样去英国。”你必须得到女人的照顾。

‘I’ve had so much of yours for the past fortnight that it will last me a good while.’
“过去两周我已经吃了很多你的了，它可以让我吃上好一阵子。”

‘You’ve not had enough of it yet. I guess I’ll go with you,’ said Henrietta.
‘你还没有受够。我想我会和你一起去，”亨利埃塔说。

‘Go with me?’ Ralph slowly raised himself from his sofa.
“跟我一起去吗？”拉尔夫慢慢地从沙发上站起来。

‘Yes, I know you don’t like me, but I’ll go with you all the same. It would be better for your health to lie down again.’
“是的，我知道你不喜欢我，但我还是会和你一起去。”再次躺下对你的健康会更好。

Ralph looked at her a little; then he slowly relapsed. ‘I like you very much,’ he said in a moment.
拉尔夫稍微看了她一眼。然后他慢慢旧病复发。 “我非常喜欢你，”他立刻说道。

Miss Stackpole gave one of her infrequent laughs. ‘You needn’t think that by saying that you can buy me off. I’ll go with you, and what is more I’ll take care of you.’
斯塔克波尔小姐罕见地笑了一声。 ‘你不必这么想，说你可以收买我。我会跟你一起去，而且我还会照顾你。”

‘You’re a very good woman,’ said Ralph.
“你是一个非常好的女人，”拉尔夫说。

‘Wait till I get you safely home before you say that. It won’t be easy.
“等我把你安全送回家后再说这句话。”这并不容易。

But you had better go, all the same.’
但无论如何，你最好还是走吧。”

Before she left him, Ralph said to her: ‘Do you really mean to take care of me?’
在她离开他之前，拉尔夫对她说：“你真的想照顾我吗？”

‘Well, I mean to try.’
“嗯，我想尝试一下。”

‘I notify you then that I submit. Oh, I submit!’ And it was perhaps a sign of submission that a few minutes after she had left him alone he burst into a loud fit of laughter. It seemed to him so inconsequent, such a conclusive proof of his having abdicated all functions and renounced all exercise, that he should start on a journey across Europe under the supervision of Miss Stackpole. And the great oddity was that the prospect pleased him; he was gratefully, luxuriously passive. He felt even impatient to start; and indeed he had an immense longing to see his own house again. The end of everything was at hand; it seemed to him he could stretch out his arm and touch the goal. But he wanted to die at home; it was the only wish he had left-to extend himself in the large quiet room where he had last seen his father lie, and close his eyes upon the summer dawn.
‘那么我通知你我服从了。哦，我屈服了！”在她离开他几分钟后，他突然大笑起来，这也许是屈服的表现。在他看来，这件事是如此无关紧要，如此确凿的证据表明他已经放弃了所有职能并放弃了所有锻炼，因此他应该在斯塔克波尔小姐的监督下开始穿越欧洲的旅程。最奇怪的是，他对这个前景很满意。他满怀感激，极其被动。他甚至有些迫不及待地想开始了。事实上，他非常渴望再次见到自己的房子。一切的结局就在眼前；在他看来，他可以伸出手臂触碰球门。但他想死在家里；这是他唯一的愿望——在他最后一次看到父亲躺着的那间安静的大房间里，闭上眼睛看着夏日的黎明。

That same day Caspar Goodwood came to see him, and he informed his visitor that Miss Stackpole had taken him up and was to conduct him back to England. ‘Ah then,’ said Caspar, ‘I’m afraid I shall be a fifth wheel to the coach. Mrs. Osmond has made me promise to go with you.’
同一天，卡斯帕·古德伍德来看望他，他告诉来访者，斯塔克波尔小姐已经把他带回英国了。 “啊，那么，”卡斯帕说，“恐怕我会成为教练的第五轮。”奥斯蒙德夫人让我答应和你一起去。

‘Good heavens-it’s the golden age! You’re all too kind.’
‘天哪，现在是黄金时代！你们太善良了。

‘The kindness on my part is to her; it’s hardly to you.’
‘我的善意是对她的；这对你来说很难。

‘Granting that, she’s kind,’ smiled Ralph.
“当然，她很友善，”拉尔夫微笑着说。

‘To get people to go with you? Yes, that’s a sort of kindness,’ Goodwood answered without lending himself to the joke. ‘For myself, however,’ he added, ‘I’ll go as far as to say that I would much rather travel with you and Miss Stackpole than with Miss Stackpole alone.’
‘为了让人们和你一起去？是的，这是一种善意。”古德伍德回答道，但并没有开这个玩笑。 “不过，对于我自己来说，”他补充道，“我什至可以说，我宁愿和你以及斯塔克波尔小姐一起旅行，也不愿和斯塔克波尔小姐单独一起旅行。”

‘And you’d rather stay here than do either,’ said Ralph. ‘There’s really no need of your coming. Henrietta’s extraordinarily efficient.’
“你宁愿留在这里也不愿做任何事，”拉尔夫说。 ‘实在没必要​​你来。亨利埃塔效率极高。”

‘I’m sure of that. But I’ve promised Mrs. Osmond.’
“我确信这一点。但我已经答应奥斯蒙德夫人了。

‘You can easily get her to let you off.’
“你很容易让她放过你。”

‘She wouldn’t let me off for the world. She wants me to look after you, but that isn’t the principal thing. The principal thing is that she wants me to leave Rome.’
“她不会放过我的。”她希望我照顾你，但这不是主要的事情。最重要的是她希望我离开罗马。

‘Ah, you see too much in it,’ Ralph suggested.
“啊，你在其中看到了太多，”拉尔夫建议道。

‘I bore her,’ Goodwood went on; ‘she has nothing to say to me, so she invented that.’
“我生下了她，”古德伍德继续说道。 “她对我无话可说，所以她发明了这个。”

‘Oh then, if it’s a convenience to her I certainly will take you with me. Though I don’t see why it should be a convenience,’ Ralph added in a moment.
“哦，那么，如果她方便的话，我当然会带你一起去。”虽然我不明白为什么这应该是一种方便，”拉尔夫片刻后补充道。

‘Well,’ said Caspar Goodwood simply, ‘she thinks I’m watching her.’
“嗯，”卡斯帕·古德伍德简单地说，“她以为我在监视她。”

‘Watching her?’
“看着她？”

‘Trying to make out if she’s happy.’
“试着看看她是否快乐。”

‘That’s easy to make out,’ said Ralph. ‘She’s the most visibly happy woman I know.’
“这很容易看出，”拉尔夫说。 “她是我认识的最幸福的女人。”

‘Exactly so; I’m satisfied,’ Goodwood answered dryly. For all his dryness, however, he had more to say. ‘I’ve been watching her; I was an old friend and it seemed to me I had the right. She pretends to be happy; that was what she undertook to be; and I thought I should like to see for myself what it amounts to. I’ve seen,’ he continued with a harsh ring in his voice, ‘and I don’t want to see any more. I’m now quite ready to go.’
'正是如此;我很满意。”古德伍德干巴巴地回答道。然而，尽管他很干巴巴，但他还有更多的话要说。 “我一直在观察她；我是一位老朋友，在我看来我有权利。她假装很高兴；这就是她所承诺的。我想我应该亲自看看它意味着什么。我已经看到了，”他继续说道，声音里带着刺耳的声音，“我不想再看到了。我现在已经准备好出发了。

‘Do you know it strikes me as about time you should?’ Ralph rejoined. And this was the only conversation these gentlemen had about Isabel Osmond.
“你知道吗？我觉得你应该这么做了？”拉尔夫反问道。这是这些先生们关于伊莎贝尔·奥斯蒙德的唯一谈话。

Henrietta made her preparations for departure, and among them she found it proper to say a few words to the Countess Gemini, who returned at Miss Stackpole’s pension the visit which this lady had paid her in Florence.
亨丽埃塔做好了出发的准备，其中她发现对双子座伯爵夫人说几句话是合适的，双子座伯爵夫人回到了斯塔克波尔小姐的养老金，这位女士在佛罗伦萨拜访了她。

‘You were very wrong about Lord Warburton,’ she remarked to the Countess. ‘I think it right you should know that.’
“你对沃伯顿勋爵的看法是非常错误的，”她对伯爵夫人说道。 “我认为你应该知道这一点。”

‘About his making love to Isabel? My poor lady, he was at her house three times a day. He has left traces of his passage!’ the Countess cried.
“关于他和伊莎贝尔做爱的事？我可怜的女士，他一天去她家三次。他留下了他走过的痕迹！”伯爵夫人喊道。

‘He wished to marry your niece; that’s why he came to the house.’
“他想娶你的侄女；这就是他来到这所房子的原因。

The Countess stared, and then with an inconsiderate laugh: ‘Is that the story that Isabel tells? It isn’t bad, as such things go. If he wishes to marry my niece, pray why doesn’t he do it? Perhaps he has gone to buy the wedding-ring and will come back with it next month, after I’m gone.’
伯爵夫人盯着看，然后不经意地笑了一声：“这就是伊莎贝尔讲的故事吗？”就事情的发展而言，这还不错。如果他想娶我的侄女，请问他为什么不这么做呢？也许他去买了结婚戒指，下个月我走后他会带着它回来。

‘No, he’ll not come back. Miss Osmond doesn’t wish to marry him.’
‘不，他不会回来了。奥斯蒙德小姐不想嫁给他。

‘She’s very accommodating! I knew she was fond of Isabel, but I didn’t know she carried it so far.’
‘她真是太贴心了！我知道她喜欢伊莎贝尔，但我不知道她能坚持到现在。”

‘I don’t understand you,’ said Henrietta coldly, and reflecting that the Countess was unpleasantly perverse. ‘I really must stick to my point-that Isabel never encouraged the attentions of Lord Warburton.’
“我不明白你的意思，”亨丽埃塔冷冷地说，并反映出伯爵夫人的乖僻得令人不快。 “我真的必须坚持我的观点——伊莎贝尔从来没有鼓励沃伯顿勋爵的关注。”

‘My dear friend, what do you and I know about it? All we know is that my brother’s capable of everything.’
‘我亲爱的朋友，你和我对此了解多少？我们只知道我哥哥无所不能。

‘I don’t know what your brother’s capable of,’ said Henrietta with dignity.
“我不知道你哥哥有什么本事。”亨丽埃塔一本正经地说。

‘It’s not her encouraging Warburton that I complain of; it’s her sending him away. I want particularly to see him. Do you suppose she thought I would make him faithless?’ the Countess continued with audacious insistence. ‘However, she’s only keeping him, one can feel that. The house is full of him there; he’s quite in the air. Oh yes, he has left traces; I’m sure I shall see him yet.’
“我抱怨的不是她鼓励沃伯顿；而是她对沃伯顿的鼓励。”是她送他走的。我特别想见见他。你认为她认为我会让他不忠吗？”伯爵夫人大胆地坚持继续说道。 ‘但是，她只是留着他，这一点是可以感觉到的。房子里挤满了他；他很飘逸。哦，是的，他留下了痕迹；我确信我还会见到他。

‘Well,’ said Henrietta after a little, with one of those inspirations which had made the fortune of her letters to the Interviewer, ‘perhaps he’ll be more successful with you than with Isabel!’
“好吧，”过了一会儿，亨利埃塔说道，她的灵感之一正是她写给采访者的信的成功之处，“也许他和你在一起会比和伊莎贝尔在一起更成功！”

When she told her friend of the offer she had made Ralph Isabel replied that she could have done nothing that would have pleased her more. It had always been her faith that at bottom Ralph and this young woman were made to understand each other. ‘I don’t care whether he understands me or not,’ Henrietta declared. ‘The great thing is that he shouldn’t die in the cars.’
当她告诉她的朋友她提出的提议时，拉尔夫·伊莎贝尔回答说，她无法做任何让她更高兴的事情。她一直坚信拉尔夫和这个年轻女子本质上是能够相互理解的。 “我不在乎他是否理解我，”亨利埃塔宣称。 “最棒的是他不应该死在车里。”

‘He won’t do that,’ Isabel said, shaking her head with an extension of faith.
“他不会那样做的，”伊莎贝尔坚定地摇着头说道。

‘He won’t if I can help it. I see you want us all to go. I don’t know what you want to do.’
“如果我能帮上忙，他就不会这么做。”我看你想让我们都走。我不知道你想做什么。

‘I want to be alone,’ said Isabel.
“我想一个人呆着，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘You won’t be that so long as you’ve so much company at home.’
“只要家里有这么多陪伴，你就不会那样。”

‘Ah, they’re part of the comedy. You others are spectators.’
‘啊，他们是喜剧的一部分。你们其他人都是旁观者。

‘Do you call it a comedy, Isabel Archer?’ Henrietta rather grimly asked.
“你称它为喜剧吗，伊莎贝尔·阿切尔？”亨利埃塔相当严肃地问道。

‘The tragedy then if you like. You’re all looking at me; it makes me uncomfortable.’
“如果你愿意的话，那就悲剧吧。”你们都看着我；这让我不舒服。

Henrietta engaged in this act for a while. ‘You’re like the stricken deer, seeking the innermost shade. Oh, you do give me such a sense of helplessness!’ she broke out.
亨利埃塔（Henrietta）参与了这一行为一段时间。 ‘你就像那只受伤的鹿，寻找最深处的阴凉。哦，你确实给我一种无助的感觉！”她突然说道。

‘I’m not at all helpless. There are many things I mean to do.’
‘我一点也不无助。我想做的事情有很多。

‘It’s not you I’m speaking of; it’s myself. It’s too much, having come on purpose, to leave you just as I find you.’
“我说的不是你，而是你。”是我自己。我是故意来的，就在我找到你的时候就离开你了，这太过分了。”

‘You don’t do that; you leave me much refreshed,’ Isabel said.
‘你不这样做；你让我精神焕发，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘Very mild refreshment-sour lemonade! I want you to promise me something.’
“非常温和的清爽酸柠檬水！我要你答应我一件事。

‘I can’t do that. I shall never make another promise. I made such a solemn one four years ago, and I’ve succeeded so ill in keeping it.’
‘我不能那样做。我再也不会做出任何承诺。我四年前做了一个如此庄严的仪式，但我却很成功地保留了它。

‘You’ve had no encouragement. In this case I should give you the greatest. Leave your husband before the worst comes; that’s what I want you to promise.’
‘你没有得到任何鼓励。既然如此，我应该给你最好的。在最坏的情况到来之前离开你的丈夫；这就是我要你保证的。

‘The worst? What do you call the worst?’
'最不好的？你认为最糟糕的是什么？

‘Before your character gets spoiled.’
“在你的性格被宠坏之前。”

‘Do you mean my disposition? It won’t get spoiled,’ Isabel answered, smiling. ‘I’m taking very good care of it. I’m extremely struck,’ she added, turning away, ‘with the off-hand way in which you speak of a woman’s leaving her husband. It’s easy to see you’ve never had one!’
‘你是说我的性格吗？它不会被损坏。”伊莎贝尔微笑着回答。 ‘我正在很好地照顾它。我非常震惊，”她转过身去，补充道，“你谈到一个女人要离开她丈夫时的那种不经意的语气。很容易看出你从来没有拥有过！

‘Well,’ said Henrietta as if she were beginning an argument, ‘nothing is more common in our Western cities, and it’s to them, after all, that we must look in the future.’ Her argument, however, does not concern this history, which has too many other threads to unwind. She announced to Ralph Touchett that she was ready to leave Rome by any train he might designate, and Ralph immediately pulled himself together for departure. Isabel went to see him at the last, and he made the same remark that Henrietta had made. It struck him that Isabel was uncommonly glad to get rid of them all.
“好吧，”亨丽埃塔说道，仿佛她要开始一场争论，“在我们的西方城市里，没有什么比这更常见的了，毕竟，我们必须着眼于未来。”然而，她的论点并不涉及这个历史，还有太多其他线索需要解开。她向拉尔夫·图切特宣布，她已准备好乘坐他指定的任何火车离开罗马，拉尔夫立即振作起来准备出发。伊莎贝尔最后去看他，他说了和亨利埃塔一样的话。他突然意识到，伊莎贝尔非常高兴能够摆脱他们所有人。

For all answer to this she gently laid her hand on his, and said in a low tone, with a quick smile: ‘My dear Ralph-!’
对于这个问题，她轻轻地将手放在他的手上，微笑着低声说道：“我亲爱的拉尔夫——！”

It was answer enough, and he was quite contented. But he went on in the same way, jocosely, ingenuously: ‘I’ve seen less of you than I might, but it’s better than nothing. And then I’ve heard a great deal about you.’
这已经是足够的答案了，他已经很满足了。但他继续以同样的方式，开玩笑地，天真地说道：“我见到你的次数比我想象的要少，但这总比什么都没有好。”然后我听说了很多关于你的事。

‘I don’t know from whom, leading the life you’ve done.’
“我不知道是谁让你过着你现在这样的生活。”

‘From the voices of the air! Oh, from no one else; I never let other people speak of you. They always say you’re ‘charming,’ and that’s so flat.’
‘从空中的声音传来！噢，不是别人；我从来不让别人谈论你。他们总是说你‘很有魅力’，但这太平淡了。”

‘I might have seen more of you certainly,’ Isabel said. ‘But when one’s married one has so much occupation.’
“我当然可以多见见你，”伊莎贝尔说。 “但是当一个人结婚后，就会有很多事情要做。”

‘Fortunately I’m not married. When you come to see me in England I shall be able to entertain you with all the freedom of a bachelor.’ He continued to talk as if they should certainly meet again, and succeeded in making the assumption appear almost just. He made no allusion to his term being near, to the probability that he should not outlast the summer. If he preferred it so, Isabel was willing enough; the reality was sufficiently distinct without their erecting finger-posts in conversation. That had been well enough for the earlier time, though about this, as about his other affairs, Ralph had never been egotistic. Isabel spoke of his journey, of the stages into which he should divide it, of the precautions he should take. ‘Henrietta’s my greatest precaution,’ he went on. ‘The conscience of that woman’s sublime.’
‘幸好我还没结婚。当你来英国看我时，我将能够以单身汉的所有自由来招待你。”他继续说道，好像他们肯定会再次见面，并成功地使这个假设看起来几乎是正确的。他没有提到他的任期即将到来，也没有提到他可能活不过这个夏天。如果他愿意的话，伊莎贝尔也很愿意。无需他们在谈话中竖起手指柱，现实就已经足够清晰了。对于早些时候来说，这已经足够好了，尽管对于这件事，就像对于他的其他事情一样，拉尔夫从来都不是自私的。伊莎贝尔谈到了他的旅程、他应该将其分为的阶段以及他应该采取的预防措施。 “亨利埃塔是我最大的预防措施，”他继续说道。 “那个女人的良心是崇高的。”

‘Certainly she’ll be very conscientious.’
“她当然会非常认真。”

‘Will be? She has been! It’s only because she thinks it’s her duty that she goes with me. There’s a conception of duty for you.’
'将？她已经！只是因为她认为和我一起去是她的职责。你有一种责任感。

‘Yes, it’s a generous one,’ said Isabel, ‘and it makes me deeply ashamed.
“是的，这是一个慷慨的举动，”伊莎贝尔说，“这让我深感羞愧。”

I ought to go with you, you know.’
我应该和你一起去，你知道的。

‘Your husband wouldn’t like that.’
“你丈夫不会喜欢这样的。”

‘No, he wouldn’t like it. But I might go, all the same.’
‘不，他不会喜欢的。但我还是可能会去。

‘I’m startled by the boldness of your imagination. Fancy my being a cause of disagreement between a lady and her husband!’
“我对你想象力的大胆感到惊讶。想象一下我成为一位女士和她丈夫之间分歧的原因吧！

‘That’s why I don’t go,’ said Isabel simply-yet not very lucidly.
“这就是我不去的原因。”伊莎贝尔简单但不太清楚地说。

Ralph understood well enough, however. ‘I should think so, with all those occupations you speak of.’
不过，拉尔夫很清楚。 “对于你所说的所有这些职业，我应该这么认为。”

‘It isn’t that. I’m afraid,’ said Isabel. After a pause she repeated, as if to make herself, rather than him, hear the words: ‘I’m afraid.’
‘不是那样的。我害怕，”伊莎贝尔说。停顿了一下，她重复了一遍，仿佛是为了让自己而不是他听到这句话：“我害怕。”

Ralph could hardly tell what her tone meant; it was so strangely deliberate-apparently so void of emotion. Did she wish to do public penance for a fault of which she had not been convicted? or were her words simply an attempt at enlightened self-analysis? However this might be, Ralph could not resist so easy an opportunity. ‘Afraid of your husband?’
拉尔夫几乎听不懂她的语气是什么意思。这是如此奇怪的刻意——显然如此缺乏情感。她是否希望为自己尚未被定罪的过错进行公开忏悔？或者她的话只是一种开明的自我分析的尝试？不管怎样，拉尔夫无法抗拒如此轻易的机会。 “害怕你丈夫吗？”

‘Afraid of myself! ‘ she said, getting up. She stood there a moment and then added: ‘If I were afraid of my husband that would be simply my duty. That’s what women are expected to be.’
‘我害怕我自己！ ’她站起身来说道。她在那里站了一会儿，然后补充道：“如果我害怕我的丈夫，那只是我的责任。”这就是女性应该成为的样子。

‘Ah yes,’ laughed Ralph; ‘but to make up for it there’s always some man awfully afraid of some woman!’
“啊，是的，”拉尔夫笑道。 “但为了弥补这一点，总有一些男人非常害怕某个女人！”

She gave no heed to this pleasantry, but suddenly took a different turn. ‘With Henrietta at the head of your little band,’ she exclaimed abruptly, ‘there will be nothing left for Mr. Goodwood!’
她没有理会这句客套话，但突然就变了样。 “有了亨丽埃塔领导的小乐队，”她突然喊道，“古德伍德先生就什么都没有了！”

‘Ah, my dear Isabel,’ Ralph answered, ‘he’s used to that. There is nothing left for Mr. Goodwood.’
“啊，我亲爱的伊莎贝尔，”拉尔夫回答，“他已经习惯了。”古德伍德先生已经一无所有了。

She coloured and then observed, quickly, that she must leave him. They stood together a moment; both her hands were in both of his. ‘You’ve been my best friend,’ she said.
她脸色红了，然后很快就说她必须离开他。他们站在一起了一会儿；她的双手都握在他的双手里。 “你是我最好的朋友，”她说。

‘It was for you that I wanted-that I wanted to live. But I’m of no use to you.’
“我想要的是为了你——我想要活下去。”但我对你来说毫无用处。

Then it came over her more poignantly that she should not see him again. She could not accept that; she could not part with him that way. ‘If you should send for me I’d come,’ she said at last.
然后她更加痛苦地意识到她不应该再见到他。她无法接受这一点；她不能就这样与他分开。 “如果你派人来找我，我就会来。”她最后说道。

‘Your husband won’t consent to that.’
“你丈夫不会同意的。”

‘Oh yes, I can arrange it.’
“哦，是的，我可以安排。”

‘I shall keep that for my last pleasure!’ said Ralph.
“我将保留它作为我最后的快乐！”拉尔夫说。

In answer to which she simply kissed him. It was a Thursday, and that evening Caspar Goodwood came to Palazzo Roccanera. He was among the first to arrive, and he spent some time in conversation with Gilbert Osmond, who almost always was present when his wife received. They sat down together, and Osmond, talkative, communicative, expansive, seemed possessed with a kind of intellectual gaiety. He leaned back with his legs crossed, lounging and chatting, while Goodwood, more restless, but not at all lively, shifted his position, played with his hat, made the little sofa creak beneath him. Osmond’s face wore a sharp, aggressive smile; he was as a man whose perceptions have been quickened by good news. He remarked to Goodwood that he was sorry they were to lose him; he himself should particularly miss him. He saw so few intelligent men-they were surprisingly scarce in Rome. He must be sure to come back; there was something very refreshing, to an inveterate Italian like himself, in talking with a genuine outsider.
作为回应，她只是吻了他。那是一个星期四，那天晚上卡斯帕·古德伍德来到罗卡内拉宫。他是最早到达的人之一，他花了一些时间与吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德交谈，当他的妻子接待时，吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德几乎总是在场。他们坐在一起，奥斯蒙德健谈、健谈、心胸开阔，似乎充满了一种知识分子的快乐。他盘腿靠在椅背上，懒洋洋地闲聊着，而古德伍德则更加焦躁不安，但一点也不活泼，他变换着姿势，玩弄着帽子，让他身下的小沙发吱吱作响。奥斯蒙德的脸上挂着尖锐、咄咄逼人的微笑。他是一个因好消息而思维敏捷的人。他对古德伍德说，他很遗憾他们失去了他。他自己应该特别想念他。他看到的聪明人太少了——他们在罗马出奇地稀少。他一定要回来；对于像他这样一个根深蒂固的意大利人来说，与一个真正的局外人交谈是一件非常令人耳目一新的事情。

‘I’m very fond of Rome, you know,’ Osmond said, ‘but there’s nothing I like better than to meet people who haven’t that superstition. The modern world’s after all very fine. Now you’re thoroughly modern and yet are not at all common. So many of the moderns we see are such very poor stuff. If they’re the children of the future we’re willing to die young. Of course the ancients too are often very tiresome. My wife and I like everything that’s really new-not the mere pretence of it. There’s nothing new, unfortunately, in ignorance and stupidity. We see plenty of that in forms that offer themselves as a revelation of progress, of fight. A revelation of vulgarity! There’s a certain kind of vulgarity which I believe is really new; I don’t think there ever was anything like it before. Indeed I don’t find vulgarity, at all, before the present century. You see a faint menace of it here and there in the last, but to-day the air has grown so dense that delicate things are literally not recognized. Now, we’ve liked you-!’ With which he hesitated a moment, laying his hand gently on Goodwood’s knee and smiling with a mixture of assurance and embarrassment. ‘I’m going to say something extremely offensive and patronizing, but you must let me have the satisfaction of it. We’ve liked you because-because you’ve reconciled us a little to the future. If there are to be a certain number of people like you-a la bonne heure! I’m talking for my wife as well as for myself, you see. She speaks for me, my wife; why shouldn’t I speak for her? We’re as united, you know, as the candlestick and the snuffers. Am I assuming too much when I say that I think I’ve understood from you that your occupations have been-a-commercial? There’s a danger in that, you know; but it’s the way you have escaped that strikes us. Excuse me if my little compliment seems in execrable taste; fortunately my wife doesn’t hear me. What I mean is that you might have been-a-what I was mentioning just now. The whole American world was in a conspiracy to make you so. But you resisted, you’ve something about you that saved you. And yet you’re so modern, so modern; the most modern man we know! We shall always be delighted to see you again.’
“你知道，我非常喜欢罗马，”奥斯蒙德说，“但没有什么比见到那些不那么迷信的人更让我喜欢的了。”现代世界毕竟非常美好。现在你已经完全现代了，但又一点也不普通。我们看到的许多现代人都是非常可怜的东西。如果他们是未来的孩子，我们愿意英年早逝。当然，古人也常常很烦人。我和我的妻子喜欢一切真正新鲜的东西，而不仅仅是假装的。不幸的是，无知和愚蠢并不新鲜。我们看到很多这样的形式，这些形式本身就是进步和斗争的启示。粗俗的揭露！我认为有一种粗俗的行为确实是新鲜事。我认为以前没有过类似的事情。事实上，在本世纪之前，我根本不认为粗俗。过去你会在这里或那里看到它的微弱威胁，但今天空气变得如此稠密，以至于微妙的东西几乎无法被识别。现在，我们喜欢你了——！”他犹豫了一会儿，把手轻轻放在古德伍德的膝盖上，微笑着，脸上夹杂着自信和尴尬。 “我要说一些极其冒犯和居高临下的话，但你必须让我感到满意。我们喜欢你是因为——因为你让我们对未来有了一些和解。如果有一定数量的人像你一样那就太好了！你看，我是在为我的妻子和我自己说话。她代表我，我的妻子；我为什么不应该为她说话呢？你知道，我们就像烛台和剪纸器一样团结。当我说我认为我从你那里了解到你的职业是商业时，我是否假设太多了？ 你知道，这样做是有危险的；但令我们震惊的是你逃跑的方式。如果我的小恭维看起来很糟糕，请原谅；幸运的是我的妻子没有听到我的声音。我的意思是，你可能就是我刚才提到的那样。整个美国世界都在密谋让你变成这样。但你反抗了，你身上有某种东西拯救了你。但你却如此现代，如此现代；我们所知道的最现代的人！我们将永远很高兴再次见到您。’

I have said that Osmond was in good humour, and these remarks will give ample evidence of the fact. They were infinitely more personal than he usually cared to be, and if Caspar Goodwood had attended to them more closely he might have thought that the defence of delicacy was in rather odd hands. We may believe, however, that Osmond knew very well what he was about, and that if he chose to use the tone of patronage with a grossness not in his habits he had an excellent reason for the escapade. Goodwood had only a vague sense that he was laying it on somehow; he scarcely knew where the mixture was applied. Indeed he scarcely knew what Osmond was talking about; he wanted to be alone with Isabel, and that idea spoke louder to him than her husband’s perfectly-pitched voice. He watched her talking with other people and wondered when she would be at liberty and whether he might ask her to go into one of the other rooms. His humour was not, like Osmond’s, of the best; there was an element of dull rage in his consciousness of things. Up to this time he had not disliked Osmond personally; he had only thought him very well-informed and obliging and more than he had supposed like the person whom Isabel Archer would naturally marry. His host had won in the open field a great advantage over him, and Goodwood had too strong a sense of fair play to have been moved to underrate him on that account. He had not tried positively to think well of him; this was a flight of sentimental benevolence of which, even in the days when he came nearest to reconciling himself to what had happened, Goodwood was quite incapable. He accepted him as rather a brilliant personage of the amateurish kind, afflicted with a redundancy of leisure which it amused him to work off in little refinements of conversation. But he only half trusted him; he could never make out why the deuce Osmond should lavish refinements of any sort upon him. It made him suspect that he found some private entertainment in it, and it ministered to a general impression that his triumphant rival had in his composition a streak of perversity. He knew indeed that Osmond could have no reason to wish him evil; he had nothing to fear from him. He had carried off a supreme advantage and could afford to be kind to a man who had lost everything. It was true that Goodwood had at times grimly wished he were dead and would have liked to kill him; but Osmond had no means of knowing this, for practice had made the younger man perfect in the art of appearing inaccessible to-day to any violent emotion. He cultivated this art in order to deceive himself, but it was others that he deceived first. He cultivated it, moreover, with very limited success; of which there could be no better proof than the deep, dumb irritation that reigned in his soul when he heard Osmond speak of his wife’s feelings as if he were commissioned to answer for them.
我说过，奥斯蒙德的幽默感很好，这句话足以证明这一点。它们比他平时所希望的更加个性化，如果卡斯帕·古德伍德更仔细地关注它们，他可能会认为对美味的捍卫是在相当奇怪的人手中。然而，我们可以相信，奥斯蒙德非常清楚自己在做什么，如果他选择使用一种不符合他习惯的粗俗语气，那么他就有充分的理由进行这种越轨行为。古德伍德只是隐隐约约地感觉到他正在以某种方式把它放在上面；他几乎不知道混合物被涂在哪里。事实上，他几乎不知道奥斯蒙德在说什么。他想单独和伊莎贝尔在一起，这个想法对他来说比她丈夫完美音调的声音更响亮。他看着她和其他人交谈，想知道她什么时候有空，以及他是否可以请她到其他房间去。他的幽默并不像奥斯蒙德那样，是最好的。他对事物的认识中有一种隐隐的愤怒。到目前为止，他个人并没有讨厌奥斯蒙德；但他并没有讨厌奥斯蒙德。他只是认为他消息灵通、乐于助人，而且比他想象的更像伊莎贝尔·阿切尔自然会嫁给的人。他的东道主在空旷的场地上比他赢得了巨大的优势，而古德伍德有着太强烈的公平竞争意识，不会因此而低估他。他并没有积极地去评价他；这是一种情感上的仁慈，即使在他几乎要接受所发生的事情的那些日子里，古德伍德也完全无法做到这一点。 他认为他是一位业余的才华横溢的人物，他被多余的闲暇所困扰，这让他可以通过一些细微的谈话来消磨时间。但他只是半信半疑。他永远无法理解为什么平庸的奥斯蒙德会对他进行各种改良。这让他怀疑自己在其中找到了一些私人娱乐，并且给人一种普遍的印象，即他胜利的对手在他的作品中有一种反常的倾向。他确实知道奥斯蒙德没有理由希望他遭罪；他没有什么好害怕的。他已经获得了至高无上的优势，有能力善待一个失去一切的人。确实，古德伍德有时真希望他死掉，甚至想杀了他。但奥斯蒙德无法知道这一点，因为练习已经使这个年轻人完美地掌握了今天对任何暴力情绪都表现得难以接近的艺术。他修炼这门功法，是为了欺骗自己，但他先欺骗的却是别人。而且，他在这一方面的培养也取得了非常有限的成功。当他听到奥斯蒙德谈论他妻子的感受时，他的灵魂深处充满了深深的、无声的愤怒，就好像他被委托为这些感受负责一样，没有什么比这更好的证据了。

That was all he had had an ear for in what his host said to him this evening; he had been conscious that Osmond made more of a point even than usual of referring to the conjugal harmony prevailing at Palazzo Roccanera. He had been more careful than ever to speak as if he and his wife had all things in sweet community and it were as natural to each of them to say ‘we’ as to say ‘I.’ In all this there was an air of intention that had puzzled and angered our poor Bostonian, who could only reflect for his comfort that Mrs. Osmond’s relations with her husband were none of his business. He had no proof whatever that her husband misrepresented her, and if he judged her by the surface of things was bound to believe that she liked her life. She had never given him the faintest sign of discontent. Miss Stackpole had told him that she had lost her illusions, but writing for the papers had made Miss Stackpole sensational. She was too fond of early news. Moreover, since her arrival in Rome she had been much on her guard; she had pretty well ceased to flash her lantern at him. This indeed, it may be said for her, would have been quite against her conscience. She had now seen the reality of Isabel’s situation, and it had inspired her with a just reserve. Whatever could be done to improve it the most useful form of assistance would not be to inflame her former lovers with a sense of her wrongs. Miss Stackpole continued to take a deep interest in the state of Mr. Goodwood’s feelings, but she showed it at present only by sending him choice extracts, humorous and other, from the American journals, of which she received several by every post and which she always perused with a pair of scissors in her hand. The articles she cut out she placed in an envelope addressed to Mr. Goodwood, which she left with her own hand at his hotel. He never asked her a question about Isabel: hadn’t he come five thousand miles to see for himself? He was thus not in the least authorized to think Mrs. Osmond unhappy; but the very absence of authorization operated as an irritant, ministered to the harshness with which, in spite of his theory that he had ceased to care, he now recognized that, so far as she was concerned, the future had nothing more for him. He had not even the satisfaction of knowing the truth; apparently he could not even be trusted to respect her if she were unhappy. He was hopeless, helpless, useless. To this last character she had called his attention by her ingenious plan for making him leave Rome. He had no objection whatever to doing what he could for her cousin, but it made him grind his teeth to think that of all the services she might have asked of him this was the one she had been eager to select. There had been no danger of her choosing one that would have kept him in Rome.
这就是他今晚主人对他说的话。他意识到奥斯蒙德比平时更强调罗卡内拉宫的夫妻和谐。他说话比以往任何时候都更加小心，就好像他和他的妻子拥有甜蜜的共同体，他们每个人说“我们”就像说“我”一样自然。这个意图让我们可怜的波士顿人感到困惑和愤怒，为了安慰他只能想到奥斯蒙德夫人和她丈夫的关系与他无关。他没有任何证据证明她的丈夫歪曲了她，如果他仅凭表面来判断她，他一定会相信她喜欢自己的生活。她从未向他表现出一丝不满的迹象。斯塔克波尔小姐告诉他，她已经失去了幻想，但为报纸撰稿使斯塔克波尔小姐引起了轰动。她太喜欢早期的新闻了。此外，自从她抵达罗马以来，她一直保持着高度警惕。她已经不再向他闪烁灯笼了。对于她来说，这确实是违背她良心的。她现在已经看到了伊莎贝尔的现实处境，这激发了她公正的保留。无论采取什么措施来改善这种情况，最有用的帮助形式都不是激怒她以前的情人，让他们意识到她的错误。斯塔克波尔小姐继续对古德伍德先生的感情状况抱有浓厚的兴趣，但她目前只是通过向他发送来自美国期刊的精选摘录（幽默的和其他的）来表达这一点，她每篇文章都会收到几篇摘录，并且她对这些摘录感到满意。手里总是拿着剪刀翻阅。她把剪下来的文章装进一个信封，寄给先生。 古德伍德，她亲手把它留在了他的酒店。他从来没有问过她关于伊莎贝尔的问题：他不远万里来到这里亲眼看看吗？因此，他根本没有权利认为奥斯蒙德夫人不高兴。但缺乏授权本身就是一种刺激，加剧了他的严厉，尽管他理论上认为他已经不再关心，但他现在认识到，就她而言，未来对他来说已经没有什么了。他甚至没有因为知道真相而感到满足；显然，如果她不高兴，他甚至不能相信他会尊重她。他绝望、无助、无用。对于最后一个角色，她用巧妙的计划让他离开罗马，引起了他的注意。他不反对为她的表弟做一些力所能及的事，但一想到她可能要求他提供的所有服务中，这就是她渴望选择的一项，他就咬牙切齿。她选择一个能让他留在罗马的人​​并不会有任何危险。

To-night what he was chiefly thinking of was that he was to leave-her to-morrow and that he had gained nothing by coming but the knowledge that he was as little wanted as ever. About herself he had gained no knowledge; she was imperturbable, inscrutable, impenetrable. He felt the old bitterness, which he had tried so hard to swallow, rise again in his throat, and he knew there are disappointments that last as long as life. Osmond went on talking; Goodwood was vaguely aware that he was touching again upon his perfect intimacy with his wife. It seemed to him for a moment that the man had a kind of demonic imagination; it was impossible that without malice he should have selected so unusual a topic. But what did it matter, after all, whether he were demonic or not, and whether she loved him or hated him? She might hate him to the death without one’s gaining a straw one’s self. ‘You travel, by the by, with Ralph Touchett,’ Osmond said. ‘I suppose that means you’ll move slowly?’
今晚他主要想的是明天他就要离开她，而他的到来除了让他知道自己像以前一样不被需要之外什么也没得到。关于她，他一无所知。她冷静、高深莫测、难以捉摸。他感到曾经努力咽下的苦涩再次涌上喉咙，他知道有些失望会伴随一生。奥斯蒙德继续说话。古德伍德隐约意识到，他再次谈到了他与妻子的完美亲密关系。有一瞬间，他觉得这个人有一种恶魔般的想象力。如果没有恶意，他不可能选择如此不寻常的话题。但归根结底，他是不是恶魔，她是爱他还是恨他，又有什么关系呢？她可能会恨他至死，但自己却没有任何救命稻草。 “顺便说一句，你和拉尔夫·图切特一起旅行，”奥斯蒙德说。 “我想这意味着你会慢慢行动？”

‘I don’t know. I shall do just as he likes.’
'我不知道。我会按照他喜欢的方式去做。

‘You’re very accommodating. We’re immensely obliged to you; you must really let me say it. My wife has probably expressed to you what we feel. Touchett has been on our minds all winter; it has looked more than once as if he would never leave Rome. He ought never to have come; it’s worse than an imprudence for people in that state to travel; it’s a kind of indelicacy. I wouldn’t for the world be under such an obligation to Touchett as he has been to-to my wife and me. Other people inevitably have to look after him, and every one isn’t so generous as you.’
‘你真是太随和了。我们非常感谢您；你一定要让我说出来。我的妻子可能已经向你表达了我们的感受。整个冬天，塔奇特一直在我们的脑海里。不止一次看起来他永远不会离开罗马。他本不该来的；对于那个州的人来说，这比不谨慎的旅行更糟糕；这是一种不雅行为。我绝对不会像他对我和我的妻子那样对图塞特负有这样的义务。其他人不可避免地要照顾他，但并不是每个人都像你那么慷慨。

‘I’ve nothing else to do,’ Caspar said dryly.
“我没有别的事可做，”卡斯帕干巴巴地说。

Osmond looked at him a moment askance. ‘You ought to marry, and then you’d have plenty to do! It’s true that in that case you wouldn’t be quite so available for deeds of mercy.’
奥斯蒙德斜眼看了他一眼。 “你应该结婚，然后你就有很多事情要做了！”确实，在这种情况下，你就不会那么愿意做出仁慈的事了。”

‘Do you find that as a married man you’re so much occupied?’ the young man mechanically asked.
“你有没有发现作为一个已婚男人，你的生活如此忙碌？”年轻人机械地问道。

‘Ah, you see, being married’s in itself an occupation. It isn’t always active; it’s often passive; but that takes even more attention. Then my wife and I do so many things together. We read, we study, we make music, we walk, we drive-we talk even, as when we first knew each other. I delight, to this hour, in my wife’s conversation. If you’re ever bored take my advice and get married. Your wife indeed may bore you, in that case; but you’ll never bore yourself. You’ll always have something to say to yourself-always have a subject of reflection.’
‘啊，你看，结婚本身就是一种职业。它并不总是活跃的；通常是被动的；但这需要更多的关注。然后我和我的妻子一起做了很多事情。我们读书、学习、创作音乐、散步、开车，甚至说话，就像我们刚认识时一样。直到现在，我仍对妻子的谈话感到高兴。如果你感到无聊，听听我的建议，然后结婚吧。在这种情况下，你的妻子确实可能会生你的气。但你永远不会让自己感到无聊。你总是有话要对自己说——总是有一个反思的话题。

‘I’m not bored,’ said Goodwood. ‘I’ve plenty to think about and to say to myself.’
“我不无聊，”古德伍德说。 “我有很多话要思考，要对自己说。”

‘More than to say to others!’ Osmond exclaimed with a light laugh. ‘Where shall you go next? I mean after you’ve consigned Touchett to his natural caretakers-I believe his mother’s at last coming back to look after him. That little lady’s superb; she neglects her duties with a finish-! Perhaps you’ll spend the summer in England?’
“比对别人说的还要多！”奥斯蒙德轻笑道。 ‘接下来你要去哪里？我的意思是，当你将图切特托付给他的自然照顾者之后，我相信他的母亲最终会回来照顾他。那个小女人太棒了；她竟然玩忽职守——！也许你会在英国度过夏天？

‘I don’t know. I’ve no plans.’
'我不知道。我没有计划。

‘Happy man! That’s a little bleak, but it’s very free.’
‘快乐的人！这有点暗淡，但非常自由。”

‘Oh yes, I’m very free.’
“哦，是的，我很自由。”

‘Free to come back to Rome I hope,’ said Osmond as he saw a group of new visitors enter the room. ‘Remember that when you do come we count on you!’
“我希望能自由地回到罗马，”奥斯蒙德看到一群新访客进入房间时说道。 “记住，当你来的时候，我们就指望你了！”

Goodwood had meant to go away early, but the evening elapsed without his having a chance to speak to Isabel otherwise than as one of several associated interlocutors. There was something perverse in the inveteracy with which she avoided him; his unquenchable rancour discovered an intention where there was certainly no appearance of one. There was absolutely no appearance of one. She met his eyes with her clear hospitable smile, which seemed almost to ask that he would come and help her to entertain some of her visitors. To such suggestions, however, he opposed but a stiff impatience. He wandered about and waited; he talked to the few people he knew, who found him for the first time rather self-contradictory. This was indeed rare with Caspar Goodwood, though he often contradicted others. There was often music at Palazzo Roccanera, and it was usually very good. Under cover of the music he managed to contain himself; but toward the end, when he saw the people beginning to go, he drew near to Isabel and asked her in a low tone if he might not speak to her in one of the other rooms, which he had just assured himself was empty. She smiled as if she wished to oblige him but found herself absolutely prevented. ‘I’m afraid it’s impossible. People are saying good-night, and I must be where they can see me.’
古德伍德本来打算早点离开，但晚上过去了，他除了作为几个相关对话者之一之外，没有机会与伊莎贝尔交谈。她总是回避他，这有些反常。他无法抑制的怨恨发现了一种表面上看不到的意图。完全没有一个人的样子。她带着清澈好客的微笑与他的目光相遇，这几乎是在请求他过来帮助她招待一些访客。然而，对于这样的建议，他却非常不耐烦地反对。他四处闲逛，等待着。他与他认识的少数人交谈，他们第一次发现他相当自相矛盾。这对卡斯帕·古德伍德来说确实很少见，尽管他经常反驳别人。罗卡内拉宫经常有音乐，而且通常都非常好听。在音乐的掩护下，他成功地控制住了自己的情绪。但最后，当他看到人们开始离开时，他走近伊莎贝尔，低声问她是否可以在其他房间里和她说话，他刚刚确信那间房间是空的。她微笑着，似乎想满足他的要求，但发现自己完全被阻止了。 ‘恐怕这是不可能的。人们都在说晚安，而我一定在他们能看到的地方。”

‘I shall wait till they are all gone then.’
“那我就等他们都走了。”

She hesitated a moment.
她犹豫了片刻。

‘Ah, that will be delightful!’ she exclaimed.
“啊，那真是太令人高兴了！”她惊呼道。

And he waited, though it took a long time yet. There were several people, at the end, who seemed tethered to the carpet. The Countess Gemini, who was never herself till midnight, as she said, displayed no consciousness that the entertainment was over; she had still a little circle of gentlemen in front of the fire, who every now and then broke into a united laugh. Osmond had disappeared—he never bade good-bye to people; and as the Countess was extending her range, according to her custom at this period of the evening, Isabel sent Pansy to bed. Isabel sat a little apart; she too appeared to wish her sister-in-law would sound a lower note and let the last loiterers depart in peace.
他等待着，尽管已经等了很长时间了。最后有几个人似乎被拴在地毯上。双子座伯爵夫人，正如她所说，直到午夜才恢复正常，她丝毫没有意识到娱乐活动已经结束了。她的炉火前还有一小群绅士，他们时不时地发出齐声大笑。奥斯蒙德失踪了——他从不向人们告别；当伯爵夫人扩大她的范围时，按照她晚上这个时候的习惯，伊莎贝尔送潘西上床睡觉。伊莎贝尔坐得稍远一些。她似乎也希望她的嫂子能放低声调，让最后的闲逛者平静地离开。

‘May I not say a word to you now?’ Goodwood presently asked her.
“我现在可以不跟你说一句话吗？”古德伍德立即问她。

She got up immediately, smiling. ‘Certainly, we’ll go somewhere else if you like.’ They went together, leaving the Countess with her little circle, and for a moment after they had crossed the threshold neither of them spoke. Isabel would not sit down; she stood in the middle of the room slowly fanning herself; she had for him the same familiar grace. She seemed to wait for him to speak. Now that he was alone with her all the passion he had never stifled surged into his senses; it hummed in his eyes and made things swim round him. The bright, empty room grew dim and blurred, and through the heaving veil he felt her hover before him with gleaming eyes and parted lips. If he had seen more distinctly he would have perceived her smile was fixed and a trifle forced-that she was frightened at what she saw in his own face. ‘I suppose you wish to bid me good-bye?’ she said.
她立即​​起身，微笑着。 “当然，如果你愿意的话，我们可以去别的地方。”他们一起走了，留下伯爵夫人和她的小圈子，跨过门槛后，有一会儿他们都没有说话。伊莎贝尔不肯坐下。她站在房间中央，慢慢地扇着扇子。她对他也有同样熟悉的优雅。她似乎在等他说话。现在他单独和她在一起，所有他从未压抑过的激情涌入他的感官。它在他的眼睛里嗡嗡作响，让东西在他周围游动。明亮、空荡荡的房间变得昏暗而模糊，透过飘扬的面纱，他感觉到她在他面前盘旋，双眸闪烁，双唇微启。如果他看得更清楚的话，他就会发现她的笑容是固定的，而且有点勉强——她被自己脸上的表情吓坏了。 “我想你想跟我告别吧？”她说。

‘Yes—but I don’t like it. I don’t want to leave Rome,’ he answered with almost plaintive honesty.
“是的——但我不喜欢它。我不想离开罗马。”他几乎是哀伤地诚实地回答道。

‘I can well imagine. It’s wonderfully good of you. I can’t tell you how kind I think you.’
‘我完全可以想象。你真是太好了。我无法告诉你我对你有多好。

For a moment more he said nothing. ‘With a few words like that you make me go.’
又过了一会儿，他什么也没说。 “就这么几句话，你就让我走了。”

‘You must come back some day,’ she brightly returned. ‘Some day? You mean as long a time hence as possible.’ ‘Oh no; I don’t mean all that.’
“总有一天你一定要回来。”她爽快地回答道。 ‘有一天？你的意思是尽可能长的时间。”我并不是这个意思。

‘What do you mean? I don’t understand! But I said I’d go, and I’ll go,’
'你是什么意思？我不明白！但我说过我会走，我就会走。”

Goodwood added.
古德伍德补充道。

‘Come back whenever you like,’ said Isabel with attempted lightness.
“你想什么时候回来就什么时候回来。”伊莎贝尔语气轻松地说。

‘I don’t care a straw for your cousin!’ Caspar broke out.
“我一点也不在乎你的表弟！”卡斯帕大声说道。

‘Is that what you wished to tell me?’
“这就是你想告诉我的吗？”

‘No, no; I didn’t want to tell you anything. I wanted to ask you-’ he paused a moment, and then-”what have you really made of your life?’ he said, in a low, quick tone. He paused again, as if for an answer; but she said nothing, and he went on: ‘I can’t understand, I can’t penetrate you! What am I to believe-what do you want me to think?’ Still she said nothing; she only stood looking at him, now quite without pretending to ease. ‘I’m told you’re unhappy, and if you are I should like to know it. That would be something for me. But you yourself say you’re happy, and you’re somehow so still, so smooth, so hard. You’re completely changed. You conceal everything; I haven’t really come near you.’
'不，不;我不想告诉你任何事。我想问你——”他停顿了一下，然后——“你的生活到底是怎样的？”他用低沉、快速的语气说道。他又停了下来，像是在等待答案。但她什么也没说，他继续说道：“我无法理解，我无法理解你！”我该相信什么——你想让我怎么想？”她仍然什么也没说。她只是站在那里看着他，现在并没有假装放松。 “我听说你不高兴，如果你不高兴，我很想知道。”这对我来说是有意义的。但你自己却说你很幸福，而且不知何故，你是如此平静、如此顺利、如此坚强。你完全变了。你隐藏一切；我还没有真正靠近过你。”

‘You come very near,’ Isabel said gently, but in a tone of warning.
“你已经很近了。”伊莎贝尔轻声说道，但语气却带着警告。

‘And yet I don’t touch you! I want to know the truth. Have you done well?’
‘但我还是不碰你！我想知道真相。你做得好吗？

‘You ask a great deal.’
“你的要求很高。”

‘Yes-I’ve always asked a great deal. Of course you won’t tell me. I shall never know if you can help it. And then it’s none of my business.’ He had spoken with a visible effort to control himself, to give a considerate form to an inconsiderate state of mind. But the sense that it was his last chance, that he loved her and had lost her, that she would think him a fool whatever he should say, suddenly gave him a lash and added a deep vibration to his low voice. ‘You’re perfectly inscrutable, and that’s what makes me think you’ve something to hide. I tell you I don’t care a straw for your cousin, but I don’t mean that I don’t like him. I mean that it isn’t because I like him that I go away with him. I’d go if he were an idiot and you should have asked me. If you should ask me I’d go to Siberia to-morrow. Why do you want me to leave the place? You must have some reason for that; if you were as contented as you pretend you are you wouldn’t care. I’d rather know the truth about you, even if it’s damnable, than have come here for nothing. That isn’t what I came for. I thought I shouldn’t care. I came because I wanted to assure myself that I needn’t think of you any more. I haven’t thought of anything else, and you’re quite right to wish me to go away. But if I must go, there’s no harm in my letting myself out for a single moment, is there? If you’re really hurt-if he hurts you-nothing I say will hurt you. When I tell you I love you it’s simply what I came for. I thought it was for something else; but it was for that. I shouldn’t say it if I didn’t believe I should never see you again. It’s the last time-let me pluck a single flower! I’ve no right to say that, I know; and you’ve no right to listen. But you don’t listen; you never listen, you’re always thinking of something else. After this I must go, of course; so I shall at least have a reason. Your asking me is no reason, not a real one. I can’t judge by your husband,’ he went on irrelevantly, almost incoherently; ‘I don’t understand him; he tells me you adore each other. Why does he tell me that? What business is it of mine? When I say that to you, you look strange. But you always look strange. Yes, you’ve something to hide. It’s none of my business-very true. But I love you,’ said Caspar Goodwood.
“是的——我总是问很多问题。你当然不会告诉我。我永远不会知道你是否能帮上忙。然后这就不关我的事了。”他说话时明显在努力控制自己，以一种体贴的形式来表现一种不体贴的心态。但他意识到这是他最后的机会，他爱她却失去了她，无论他说什么，她都会认为他是个傻瓜，突然给了他一记鞭子，让他低沉的声音增添了深深的颤抖。 “你真是高深莫测，这让我觉得你有难言之隐。”我告诉你我一点也不关心你的表弟，但我并不是说我不喜欢他。我的意思是，我并不是因为喜欢他才和他走的。如果他是个白痴我就会去，而你应该问我。如果你问我的话，我明天就去西伯利亚。你为什么要我离开这个地方？你这样做一定有什么理由；如果你像你假装的那样满足，你就不会在意。我宁愿知道关于你的真相，即使它是可恶的，也不愿白白来到这里。这不是我来这里的目的。我想我不应该关心。我来是因为我想向自己保证我不需要再想你了。我没有想到其他事情，你希望我离开是完全正确的。但如果我必须走，我暂时离开也没有什么坏处，不是吗？如果你真的受伤了——如果他伤害了你——我说什么都不会伤害你。当我告诉你我爱你时，这就是我来这里的目的。我以为是为了别的事；但就是为了这个。如果我不相信我再也见不到你，我就不应该这么说。这是最后一次——让我摘一朵花吧！我知道，我没有权利这么说；而你没有权利听。但你不听；你从来不听，你总是在想别的事情。 当然，这之后我就必须走了；所以我至少应该有一个理由。你问我没有任何理由，不是真正的理由。我不能根据你的丈夫来判断，”他漫不经心、几乎语无伦次地继续说道。 ‘我不明白他；他告诉我你们彼此相爱。他为什么告诉我这些？关我什么事？当我对你这么说的时候，你看起来很奇怪。但你总是看起来很奇怪。是的，你有事要隐瞒。这不关我的事——确实如此。但我爱你，”卡斯帕·古德伍德说。

As he said, she looked strange. She turned her eyes to the door by which they had entered and raised her fan as if in warning. ‘You’ve behaved so well; don’t spoil it,’ she uttered softly.
正如他所说，她看起来很奇怪。她把目光转向他们进来的门，举起扇子，仿佛在警告。 ‘你表现得真好；别破坏它，”她轻声说道。

‘No one hears me. It’s wonderful what you tried to put me off with. I love you as I’ve never loved you.’
‘没有人听到我说话。你试图让我失望的事真是太棒了。我爱你，就像我从未爱过你一样。

‘I know it. I knew it as soon as you consented to go.’
'我知道这。你一同意走我就知道了。

‘You can’t help it-of course not. You would if you could, but you can’t, unfortunately. Unfortunately for me, I mean. I ask nothing-nothing, that is, I shouldn’t. But I do ask one sole satisfaction: that you tell me-that you tell me-!’
“你无法控制——当然不能。如果可以的话你会的，但不幸的是你不能。我的意思是，对我来说不幸的是。我什么也不问——什么也不问，也就是说，我不应该问。但我确实要求唯一的满足：你告诉我——你告诉我——！”

‘That I tell you what?’
“那我告诉你什么？”

‘Whether I may pity you.’
“我是否可以怜悯你。”

‘Should you like that?’ Isabel asked, trying to smile again.
“你喜欢这样吗？”伊莎贝尔问道，试图再次微笑。

‘To pity you? Most assuredly! That at least would be doing something.
‘可怜你？最肯定的是！那至少会做一些事情。

I’d give my life to it.’
我愿意为此献出我的生命。

She raised her fan to her face, which it covered all except her eyes. They rested a moment on his. ‘Don’t give your life to it; but give a thought to it every now and then.’ And with that she went back to the Countess Gemini.
她把扇子举到脸上，扇子遮住了除了眼睛以外的所有部位。他们在他身上休息了一会儿。 ‘不要把你的生命奉献给它；但时不时地想一想。”说完，她又回到双子伯爵夫人身边。

Chapter 49
第49章

Madame Merle had not made her appearance at Palazzo Roccanera on the evening of that Thursday of which I have narrated some of the incidents, and Isabel, though she observed her absence, was not surprised by it. Things had passed between them which added no stimulus to sociability, and to appreciate which we must glance a little backward. It has been mentioned that Madame Merle returned from Naples shortly after Lord Warburton had left Rome, and that on her first meeting with Isabel (whom, to do her justice, she came immediately to see) her first utterance had been an enquiry as to the whereabouts of this nobleman, for whom she appeared to hold her dear friend accountable.
那个星期四的晚上，梅尔夫人没有出现在罗卡内拉宫，我已经讲述了其中的一些事件，而伊莎贝尔虽然注意到她的缺席，但对此并不感到惊讶。他们之间发生的事情并没有增加社交的刺激性，要理解这一点，我们必须稍微回顾一下。据说，梅尔夫人在沃伯顿勋爵离开罗马后不久就从那不勒斯回来了，在她第一次见到伊莎贝尔时（公平地说，她立即来见伊莎贝尔），她的第一句话就是询问这位贵族的下落，她似乎在追究她亲爱的朋友的责任。

‘Please don’t talk of him,’ said Isabel for answer; ‘we’ve heard so much of him of late.’
“请不要谈论他，”伊莎贝尔回答道。 “最近我们听到了很多关于他的消息。”

Madame Merle bent her head on one side a little, protestingly, and smiled at the left corner of her mouth. ‘You’ve heard, yes. But you must remember that I’ve not, in Naples. I hoped to find him here and to be able to congratulate Pansy.’
梅尔夫人抗议地将头稍稍偏向一侧，左嘴角微笑着。 ‘你听说过，是的。但你必须记住，我在那不勒斯没有。我希望在这里找到他并能够祝贺潘西。

‘You may congratulate Pansy still; but not on marrying Lord Warburton.’
“你仍然可以祝贺潘西；但不是嫁给沃伯顿勋爵。”

‘How you say that! Don’t you know I had set my heart on it?’ Madame Merle asked with a great deal of spirit, but still with the intonation of good humour.
‘你怎么说呢！难道你不知道我已经下定决心要这么做了吗？”梅尔夫人精神抖擞地问道，但语气仍然很幽默。

Isabel was discomposed, but she was determined to be good-humoured too. ‘You shouldn’t have gone to Naples then. You should have stayed here to watch the affair.’
伊莎贝尔很不安，但她也决心保持幽默。 “那你就不应该去那不勒斯。你应该留在这里观看这件事。

‘I had too much confidence in you. But do you think it’s too late?’
‘我对你太有信心了。但你认为现在已经太晚了吗？

‘You had better ask Pansy,’ said Isabel.
“你最好问问潘西，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘I shall ask her what you’ve said to her.’
“我要问她你对她说了什么。”

These words seemed to justify the impulse of self-defence aroused on Isabel’s part by her perceiving that her visitor’s attitude was a critical one. Madame Merle, as we know, had been very discreet hitherto; she had never criticized; she had been markedly afraid of intermeddling. But apparently she had only reserved herself for this occasion, since she now had a dangerous quickness in her eye and an air of irritation which even her admirable ease was not able to transmute. She had suffered a disappointment which excited Isabel’s surprise-our heroine having no knowledge of her zealous interest in Pansy’s marriage; and she betrayed it in a manner which quickened Mrs. Osmond’s alarm. More clearly than ever before Isabel heard a cold, mocking voice proceed from she knew not where, in the dim void that surrounded her, and declare that this bright, strong, definite, worldly woman, this incarnation of the practical, the personal, the immediate, was a powerful agent in her destiny. She was nearer to her than Isabel had yet discovered, and her nearness was not the charming accident she had so long supposed. The sense of accident indeed had died within her that day when she happened to be struck with the manner in which the wonderful lady and her own husband sat together in private. No definite suspicion had as yet taken its place; but it was enough to make her view this friend with a different eye, to have been led to reflect that there was more intention in her past behaviour than she had allowed for at the time. Ah yes, there had been intention, there had been intention, Isabel said to herself; and she seemed to wake from a long pernicious dream. What was it that brought home to her that Madame Merle’s intention had not been good? Nothing but the mistrust which had lately taken body and which married itself now to the fruitful wonder produced by her visitor’s challenge on behalf of poor Pansy. There was something in this challenge which had at the very outset excited an answering defiance; a nameless vitality which she could see to have been absent from her friend’s professions of delicacy and caution. Madame Merle had been unwilling to interfere, certainly, but only so long as there was nothing to interfere with. It will perhaps seem to the reader that Isabel went fast in casting doubt, on mere suspicion, on a sincerity proved by several years of good offices. She moved quickly indeed, and with reason, for a strange truth was filtering into her soul. Madame Merle’s interest was identical with Osmond’s: that was enough. ‘I think Pansy will tell you nothing that will make you more angry,’ she said in answer to her companion’s last remark.
这些话似乎证明了伊莎贝尔意识到来访者的态度是批评性的，而产生的自卫冲动是合理的。据我们所知，梅尔夫人迄今为止一直非常谨慎。她从来没有批评过；她显然害怕干涉。但显然她只是为了这个场合而保留自己，因为现在她的眼睛里有一种危险的敏捷和一种恼怒的气氛，即使她令人钦佩的从容也无法改变。她所经历的失望让伊莎贝尔大吃一惊——我们的女主人公并不知道她对潘西的婚姻有着如此浓厚的兴趣；她的背叛让奥斯蒙德夫人更加警觉起来。伊莎贝尔比以往任何时候都更清楚地听到一个冰冷、嘲讽的声音从她不知道从哪里传来，在她周围的昏暗虚空中，宣称这个明亮、坚强、明确、世俗的女人，这个实际的、个人的、直接的，是她命运的强大代理人。她离她的距离比伊莎贝尔发现的还要近，而且她的亲近并不是她长期以来所想象的那样迷人的意外。那天，当她碰巧对那位出色的女士和她自己的丈夫私下坐在一起的方式感到震惊时，她内心的意外感确实消失了。到目前为止还没有明确的怀疑取代它。但这足以让她以不同的眼光看待这位朋友，让她反思她过去的行为比她当时所允许的更多的意图。啊，是的，有意图，有意图，伊莎贝尔对自己说；她似乎从一场漫长的恶梦中醒来。是什么让她意识到梅尔夫人的意图并不好？ 除了最近出现的不信任之外什么也没有，现在这种不信任又与她的访客代表可怜的潘西提出的挑战所产生的富有成果的奇迹结合在一起。这个挑战从一开始就激起了人们的反抗。她可以看出，她朋友的精致和谨慎的表白中缺乏这种无名的活力。梅尔夫人当然不愿意干涉，但前提是没有什么可干涉的。也许在读者看来，伊莎贝尔很快就提出了怀疑，仅仅是怀疑，而是几年斡旋所证明的诚意。她的动作确实很快，而且很有道理，因为一个奇怪的事实正在渗入她的灵魂。梅尔夫人的兴趣与奥斯蒙德的兴趣相同：这就够了。 “我认为潘西不会告诉你任何会让你更生气的事情，”她在回答她同伴的最后一句话时说道。

I’m not in the least angry. I’ve only a great desire to retrieve the situation. Do you consider that Warburton has left us for ever?’
我一点也不生气。我只是非常渴望挽回局面。你认为沃伯顿已经永远离开我们了吗？

‘I can’t tell you; I don’t understand you. It’s all over; please let it rest. Osmond has talked to me a great deal about it, and I’ve nothing more to say or to hear. I’ve no doubt,’ Isabel added, ‘that he’ll be very happy to discuss the subject with you.’
“我不能告诉你；我不明白你的意思。一切都结束了;请让它休息一下。奥斯蒙德已经和我谈了很多关于这个问题的事情，我没有什么可说或可听的。我毫不怀疑，”伊莎贝尔补充道，“他会很乐意与你讨论这个话题。”

‘I know what he thinks; he came to see me last evening.’
“我知道他的想法；他昨晚来看我。

‘As soon as you had arrived? Then you know all about it and you needn’t apply to me for information.’
‘你一到就？那么你就知道这一切了，你不需要向我申请信息。

‘It isn’t information I want. At bottom it’s sympathy. I had set my heart on that marriage; the idea did what so few things do-it satisfied the imagination.’
“这不是我想要的信息。归根结底是同情。我已经下定决心要结婚了；这个想法做到了很少有的事情能做到的事情——它满足了想象力。

‘Your imagination, yes. But not that of the persons concerned.’
“你的想象力，是的。但有关人员的情况却并非如此。”

‘You mean by that of course that I’m not concerned. Of course not directly. But when one’s such an old friend one can’t help having something at stake. You forget how long I’ve known Pansy. You mean, of course,’ Madame Merle added, ‘that you are one of the persons concerned.’
“你的意思当然是我不担心。当然不是直接。但当一个人是这样的老朋友时，你会情不自禁地感到有些危险。你忘了我认识潘西多久了。当然，你的意思是，”梅尔夫人补充道，“你是相关人员之一。”

‘No; that’s the last thing I mean. I’m very weary of it all.’
'不;这就是我的最后一个意思。我对这一切感到非常厌倦。

Madame Merle hesitated a little. ‘Ah yes, your work’s done.’
梅尔夫人犹豫了一下。 “啊，是的，你的工作完成了。”

‘Take care what you say,’ said Isabel very gravely.
“注意你说的话，”伊莎贝尔非常严肃地说。

‘Oh, I take care; never perhaps more than when it appears least. Your husband judges you severely.’
‘噢，我保重；也许永远不会比它出现最少的时候更多。你丈夫对你的评价很严厉。

Isabel made for a moment no answer to this; she felt choked with bitterness. It was not the insolence of Madame Merle’s informing her that Osmond had been taking her into his confidence as against his wife that struck her most; for she was not quick to believe that this was meant for insolence. Madame Merle was very rarely insolent, and only when it was exactly right. It was not right now, or at least it was not right yet. What touched Isabel like a drop of corrosive acid upon an open wound was the knowledge that Osmond dishonoured her in his words as well as in his thoughts. ‘Should you like to know how I judge him?’ she asked at last.
伊莎贝尔一时没有回答这个问题。她感到苦涩得窒息了。最让她震惊的并不是梅尔夫人的无礼行为，她告诉她，奥斯蒙德一直在秘密地信任她，而不是反对他的妻子。因为她很快就相信这是无礼的行为。梅尔夫人很少会无礼无礼，只有在完全正确的情况下才如此。现在还不是时候，或者至少现在还不是时候。伊莎贝尔的触动就像一滴腐蚀性酸滴在开放性伤口上一样，因为她知道奥斯蒙德在言语和思想上都侮辱了她。 “你想知道我如何评价他吗？”她最后问道。

‘No, because you’d never tell me. And it would be painful for me to know.’
“不，因为你永远不会告诉我。如果我知道的话，我会很痛苦。

There was a pause, and for the first time since she had known her Isabel thought Madame Merle disagreeable. She wished she would leave her. ‘Remember how attractive Pansy is, and don’t despair,’ she said abruptly, with a desire that this should close their interview.
停顿了一下，自从认识她的伊莎贝尔以来，这是她第一次觉得梅尔夫人令人讨厌。她希望她能离开她。 “记住潘西是多么有吸引力，不要绝望，”她突然说道，希望他们的采访就此结束。

But Madame Merle’s expansive presence underwent no contraction. She only gathered her mantle about her and, with the movement, scattered upon the air a faint, agreeable fragrance. ‘I don’t despair; I feel encouraged. And I didn’t come to scold you; I came if possible to learn the truth. I know you’ll tell it if I ask you. It’s an immense blessing with you that one can count upon that. No, you won’t believe what a comfort I take in it.’
但梅尔夫人的存在并没有收缩。她只是将斗篷裹在身上，随着动作，空气中散发出淡淡的宜人的香气。 “我并不绝望；我感到受到鼓舞。我也不是来骂你的；如果可能的话我来是为了了解真相。我知道如果我问你你会告诉的。人们可以信赖这一点，这对你来说是一种巨大的祝福。不，你不会相信我从中得到了多大的安慰。

‘What truth do you speak of?’ Isabel asked, wondering.
“你所说的真相是什么？”伊莎贝尔疑惑地问道。

‘Just this: whether Lord Warburton changed his mind quite of his own movement or because you recommended it. To please himself I mean, or to please you. Think of the confidence I must still have in you, in spite of having lost a little of it,’ Madame Merle continued with a smile, ‘to ask such a question as that!’ She sat looking at her friend, to judge the effect of her words, and then went on: ‘Now don’t be heroic, don’t be unreasonable, don’t take offence. It seems to me I do you an honour in speaking so. I don’t know another woman to whom I would do it. I haven’t the least idea that any other woman would tell me the truth. And don’t you see how well it is that your husband should know it? It’s true that he doesn’t appear to have had any tact whatever in trying to extract it; he has indulged in gratuitous suppositions. But that doesn’t alter the fact that it would make a difference in his view of his daughter’s prospects to know distinctly what really occurred. If Lord Warburton simply got tired of the poor child, that’s one thing, and it’s a pity. If he gave her up to please you it’s another. That’s a pity too, but in a different way. Then, in the latter case, you’d perhaps resign yourself to not being pleased-to simply seeing your stepdaughter married. Let him off-let us have him!’
“就是这样：沃伯顿勋爵是因为他自己的运动而改变了主意，还是因为你推荐了它。我的意思是取悦他自己，或者取悦你。想想我对你的信心，尽管已经失去了一点，”梅尔夫人微笑着继续说道，“问这样的问题！”她坐着看着她的朋友，判断效果”听了她的话，然后继续说道：“现在不要英雄气概，不要无理取闹，不要生气。在我看来，我很荣幸能这么说。我不知道还有哪个女人能让我这么做。我根本不知道还有其他女人会告诉我真相。难道你不明白你的丈夫应该知道这一点吗？确实，他在试图提取它时似乎没有任何机智。他沉迷于无端的假设。但这并不能改变这样一个事实：清楚地了解到底发生了什么，将会改变他对女儿前景的看法。如果沃伯顿勋爵只是厌倦了这个可怜的孩子，那是一回事，而且很遗憾。如果他为了取悦你而放弃她，那就是另一回事了。这也很遗憾，但方式不同。那么，在后一种情况下，你可能会甘心不高兴——只是看到你的继女结婚了。让他走吧——让我们抓住他！

Madame Merle had proceeded very deliberately, watching her companion and apparently thinking she could proceed safely. As she went on Isabel grew pale; she clasped her hands more tightly in her lap. It was not that her visitor had at last thought it the right time to be insolent; for this was not what was most apparent. It was a worse horror than that. ‘Who are you-what are you?’ Isabel murmured. ‘What have you to do with my husband?’ It was strange that for the moment she drew as near to him as if she had loved him.
梅尔夫人非常谨慎地前进，看着她的同伴，显然认为她可以安全地前进。伊莎贝尔继续前行，脸色变得苍白。她把放在腿上的双手握得更紧。这并不是说她的来访者最终认为现在是傲慢无礼的时候了；而是她的来访者最终认为现在是傲慢无礼的时候了。因为这并不是最明显的。这是比那更可怕的恐怖。 “你是谁——你是什么？”伊莎贝尔低声说道。 “你和我丈夫有什么关系？”奇怪的是，此刻她离他很近，就好像她很爱他一样。

‘Ah then, you take it heroically! I’m very sorry. Don’t think, however, that I shall do so.’
‘啊，那么，你就勇敢地接受吧！我很抱歉。不过，别以为我会这么做。

‘What have you to do with me?’ Isabel went on.
“你跟我有什么关系？”伊莎贝尔继续说道。

Madame Merle slowly got up, stroking her muff, but not removing her eyes from Isabel’s face. ‘Everything!’ she answered.
梅尔夫人慢慢地站起来，抚摸着手筒，但目光却没有从伊莎贝尔的脸上移开。 “一切！”她回答道。

Isabel sat there looking up at her, without rising; her face was almost a prayer to be enlightened. But the light of this woman’s eyes seemed only a darkness. ‘Oh misery!’ she murmured at last; and she fell back, covering her face with her hands. It had come over her like a high-surging wave that Mrs. Touchett was right. Madame Merle had married her. Before she uncovered her face again that lady had left the room.
伊莎贝尔坐在那里抬头看着她，没有站起来。她的表情几乎像是在祈祷，希望得到启发。但这个女人眼中的光芒却仿佛只有黑暗。 “哦，痛苦啊！”她最后低声说道。她向后倒去，用手捂住脸。她突然意识到，图切特夫人是对的。梅尔夫人娶了她。在她再次揭开脸之前，那位女士已经离开了房间。

Isabel took a drive alone that afternoon; she wished to be far away, under the sky, where she could descend from her carriage and tread upon the daisies. She had long before this taken old Rome into her confidence, for in a world of ruins the ruin of her happiness seemed a less unnatural catastrophe. She rested her weariness upon things that had crumbled for centuries and yet still were upright; she dropped her secret sadness into the silence of lonely places, where its very modern quality detached itself and grew objective, so that as she sat in a sun-warmed angle on a winter’s day, or stood in a mouldy church to which no one came, she could almost smile at it and think of its smallness. Small it was, in the large Roman record, and her haunting sense of the continuity of the human lot easily carried her from the less to the greater. She had become deeply, tenderly acquainted with Rome; it interfused and moderated her passion. But she had grown to think of it chiefly as the place where people had suffered. This was what came to her in the starved churches, where the marble columns, transferred from pagan ruins, seemed to offer her a companionship in endurance and the musty incense to be a compound of long-unanswered prayers. There was no gentler nor less consistent heretic than Isabel; the firmest of worshippers, gazing at dark altar-pictures or clustered candles, could not have felt more intimately the suggestiveness of these objects nor have been more liable at such moments to a spiritual visitation. Pansy, as we know, was almost always her companion, and of late the Countess Gemini, balancing a pink parasol, had lent brilliancy to their equipage; but she still occasionally found herself alone when it suited her mood and where it suited the place. On such occasions she had several resorts; the most accessible of which perhaps was a seat on the low parapet which edges the wide grassy space before the high, cold front of Saint John Lateran, whence you look across the Campagna at the far-trailing outline of the Alban Mount and at that mighty plain, between, which is still so full of all that has passed from it. After the departure of her cousin and his companions she roamed more than usual; she carried her sombre spirit from one familiar shrine to the other. Even when Pansy and the Countess were with her she felt the touch of a vanished world. The carriage, leaving the walls of Rome behind, rolled through narrow lanes where the wild honeysuckle had begun to tangle itself in the hedges, or waited for her in quiet places where the fields lay near, while she strolled further and further over the flower-freckled turf, or sat on a stone that had once had a use and gazed through the veil of her personal sadness at the splendid sadness of the scene-at the dense, warm light, the far gradations and soft confusions of colour, the motionless shepherds in lonely attitudes, the hills where the cloud-shadows had the lightness of a blush.
那天下午，伊莎贝尔独自开车兜风。她希望能到很远的地方，到天空下，从马车上下来，踩在雏菊上。在此之前，她早已将古罗马置于她的信任之中，因为在一个废墟的世界里，她幸福的毁灭似乎是一个不那么不自然的灾难。她把疲倦寄托在那些已经倒塌了几个世纪但仍然直立的东西上。她把秘密的悲伤倾注在孤独之地的寂静中，在那里，它非常现代的品质自我分离并变得客观，因此，当她在冬日坐在阳光温暖的角度，或者站在没人来的发霉的教堂里时，她几乎可以微笑地看着它，并想到它的渺小。在庞大的罗马记录中，它很小，而她对人类命运连续性的挥之不去的感觉很容易将她从较小者带到了伟大者。她对罗马已经有了深入而亲切的了解。它融入并缓和了她的热情。但她逐渐认为这里主要是人们遭受苦难的地方。这就是她在饥饿的教堂里遇到的东西，那里从异教废墟中搬来的大理石柱似乎为她提供了一种忍耐的陪伴，而发霉的香是长期未得到回应的祈祷的混合物。没有比伊莎贝尔更温和、更不坚定的异端了。最坚定的崇拜者，凝视着黑暗的祭坛图片或簇拥的蜡烛，无法更亲密地感受到这些物体的暗示，也无法在这种时刻更容易受到精神的拜访。正如我们所知，潘西几乎总是她的伴侣，最近，双子座伯爵夫人平衡着一把粉红色的遮阳伞，为他们的马车增添了光彩；但当适合她的心情和适合这个地方的时候，她仍然偶尔会发现自己独自一人。 在这种情况下，她有好几个度假胜地。其中最容易接近的也许是低矮矮墙上的一个座位，矮矮墙上的座位边缘是圣约翰拉特兰高处、寒冷的锋面之前的宽阔草地，从那里你可以眺望平原对面的阿尔班山远方的轮廓和那雄伟的山峰。平淡，介于两者之间，仍然充满了过去的一切。堂弟和他的同伴离开后，她比平常更频繁地闲逛。她把阴郁的精神从一座熟悉的神殿带到了另一座熟悉的神殿。即使当潘西和伯爵夫人和她在一起时，她也能感受到消失的世界的触感。马车离开罗马的城墙，驶过狭窄的小巷，那里的野金银花已经开始在树篱中纠缠，或者在田野附近的安静地方等待着她，而她则在花丛中越走越远——或者坐在一块曾经有用过的石头上，透过她个人悲伤的面纱，凝视着场景中壮丽的悲伤——浓密而温暖的光线，遥远的渐变和柔和的混乱色彩，一动不动的牧羊人在孤独的态度中，云影的山丘呈现出淡淡的红晕。

On the afternoon I began with speaking of, she had taken a resolution not to think of Madame Merle; but the resolution proved vain, and this lady’s image hovered constantly before her. She asked herself, with an almost childlike horror of the supposition, whether to this intimate friend of several years the great historical epithet of wicked were to be applied. She knew the idea only by the Bible and other literary works; to the best of her belief she had had no personal acquaintance with wickedness. She had desired a large acquaintance with human life, and in spite of her having flattered herself that she cultivated it with some success this elementary privilege had been denied her. Perhaps it was not wicked-in the historic sense-to be even deeply false; for that was what Madame Merle had been deeply, deeply, deeply. Isabel’s Aunt Lydia had made this discovery long before, and had mentioned it to her niece; but Isabel had flattered herself at this time that she had a much richer view of things, especially of the spontaneity of her own career and the nobleness of her own interpretations, than poor stiffly-reasoning Mrs. Touchett. Madame Merle had done what she wanted; she had brought about the union of her two friends; a reflection which could not fail to make it a matter of wonder that she should so much have desired such an event. There were people who had the match-making passion, like the votaries of art for art; but Madame Merle, great artist as she was, was scarcely one of these. She thought too ill of marriage, too ill even of life; she had desired that particular marriage but had not desired others. She had therefore had a conception of gain, and Isabel asked herself where she had found her profit. It took her naturally a long time to discover, and even then her discovery was imperfect. It came back to her that Madame Merle, though she had seemed to like her from their first meeting at Gardencourt, had been doubly affectionate after Mr. Touchett’s death and after learning that her young friend had been subject to the good old man’s charity. She had found her profit not in the gross device of borrowing money, but in the more refined idea of introducing one of her intimates to the young woman’s fresh and ingenuous fortune. She had naturally chosen her closest intimate, and it was already vivid enough to Isabel that Gilbert occupied this position. She found herself confronted in this manner with the conviction that the man in the world whom she had supposed to be the least sordid had married her, like a vulgar adventurer, for her money. Strange to say, it had never before occurred to her; if she had thought a good deal of harm of Osmond she had not done him this particular injury. This was the worst she could think of, and she had been saying to herself that the worst was still to come. A man might marry a woman for her money perfectly well; the thing was often done. But at least he should let her know. She wondered whether, since he had wanted her money, her money would now satisfy him. Would he take her money and let her go? Ah, if Mr. Touchett’s great charity would but help her today it would be blessed indeed! It was not slow to occur to her that if Madame Merle had wished to do Gilbert a service his recognition to her of the boon must have lost its warmth. What must be his feelings to-day in regard to his too zealous benefactress, and what expression must they have found on the part of such a master of irony? It is a singular, but a characteristic, fact that before Isabel returned from her silent drive she had broken its silence by the soft exclamation:
在我开始谈论的那个下午，她决定不去想梅尔夫人；她决定不去想梅尔夫人。但这个决心却是徒劳的，这位女士的形象一直在她面前盘旋。她带着一种近乎孩子般的对这个假设的恐惧问自己，这个伟大的历史绰号是否适用于这位多年的亲密朋友。她只是通过圣经和其他文学作品才知道这个想法。据她所知，她个人对邪恶并不了解。她渴望对人类生活有深入的了解，尽管她自以为自己在这方面取得了一些成功，但这一基本特权却被剥夺了。或许，从历史的意义上来说，即使是极其错误的行为，也并不邪恶。因为这就是梅尔夫人深深、深深、深深的感受。伊莎贝尔的姨妈莉迪亚很早就发现了这一点，并向她的侄女提到过。但此时伊莎贝尔却自以为自己对事物的看法比可怜的、僵硬推理的图切特太太丰富得多，尤其是对她自己职业生涯的自发性和她自己解释的高贵性。梅尔夫人已经做了她想做的事。她促成了她的两个朋友的结合；这种想法不能不让人感到惊奇，她竟然如此渴望这样的事情。有些人热衷于牵线搭桥，就像艺术对艺术的崇拜者；但梅尔夫人，尽管她是一位伟大的艺术家，却几乎不是其中之一。她对婚姻抱有太坏的想法，甚至对生活也抱有太坏的想法。她渴望那段特定的婚姻，但不渴望其他婚姻。因此，她有了一种获利的概念，伊莎贝尔问自己，她从哪里找到了利润。 她自然花了很长时间才发现，而且即便如此，她的发现也是不完美的。她回想起梅尔夫人虽然从他们第一次在花园庭院见面时就喜欢她，但在图切特先生去世后，以及在得知她的年轻朋友受到了这位好心老人的施舍后，她对她的喜爱加倍了。她发现自己的利润不在于粗俗的借钱手段，而在于向她的一位密友介绍这位年轻女子新鲜而纯真的财富的更精致的想法。她自然选择了自己最亲近的人，而且对于伊莎贝尔来说，吉尔伯特占据了这个位置，这一点已经足够清晰了。她发现自己以这种方式面对这样的信念：她认为世界上最不肮脏的男人像一个庸俗的冒险家一样为了她的钱而娶了她。奇怪的是，她以前从未想到过这种事。如果她认为奥斯蒙德受到了很大的伤害，那么她就没有对他造成这种特别的伤害。这是她能想到的最糟糕的情况，她一直对自己说，最糟糕的还在后面。一个男人可能为了金钱而娶一个女人，这完全是可能的。这件事经常做。但至少他应该让她知道。她想知道，既然他想要她的钱，她的钱现在是否能让他满意。他会拿走她的钱并放她走吗？啊，如果图切特先生的伟大慈善事业今天能帮到她，那就太幸运了！她很快就意识到，如果梅尔夫人希望为吉尔伯特提供帮助，那么他对她的恩惠肯定已经失去了热情。今天，他对他过于热心的恩人一定有什么感情，而在这样一位讽刺大师身上，他们又会有怎样的表情呢？这是一个奇特但又具有特色的事实，伊莎贝尔在安静地开车回来之前，用轻柔的感叹打破了沉默：

‘Poor, poor Madame Merle!’
“可怜的梅尔夫人！”

Her compassion would perhaps have been justified if on this same afternoon she had been concealed behind one of the valuable curtains of time-softened damask which dressed the interesting little salon of the lady to whom it referred; the carefully-arranged apartment to which we once paid a visit in company with the discreet Mr. Rosier. In that apartment, towards six o’clock, Gilbert Osmond was seated, and his hostess stood before him as Isabel had seen her stand on an occasion commemorated in this history with an emphasis appropriate not so much to its apparent as to its real importance.
如果在同一天下午，她被隐藏在一张珍贵的、经过时间软化的锦缎窗帘后面，那么她的同情心也许是合理的；窗帘所指的是那位女士的有趣的小沙龙。我们曾经与谨慎的罗齐尔先生一起参观过这间精心布置的公寓。六点左右，吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德在那间公寓里就座，他的女主人站在他面前，就像伊莎贝尔看到她站在这个历史上值得纪念的时刻一样，强调的重点与其说是表面上的，不如说是其真正的重要性。

‘I don’t believe you’re unhappy; I believe you like it,’ said Madame Merle.
“我不相信你不高兴；我相信你喜欢它，”梅尔夫人说。

‘Did I say I was unhappy?’ Osmond asked with a face grave enough to suggest that he might have been.
“我有说过我不高兴吗？”奥斯蒙德问道，他的表情严肃得足以表明他可能是这样。

‘No, but you don’t say the contrary, as you ought in common gratitude.’
“不，但你没有说相反的话，因为你应该表达感激之情。”

‘Don’t talk about gratitude,’ he returned dryly. ‘And don’t aggravate me,’ he added in a moment.
“别谈感激之情。”他干巴巴地回答道。 “别激怒我，”他随即补充道。

Madame Merle slowly seated herself, with her arms folded and her white hands arranged as a support to one of them and an ornament, as it were, to the other. She looked exquisitely calm but impressively sad. ‘On your side, don’t try to frighten me. I wonder if you guess some of my thoughts.’
梅尔夫人慢慢地坐了下来，双臂交叉，白皙的双手支撑着其中一个，也可以说是另一个的装饰品。她看起来异常平静，但令人印象深刻的是悲伤。 ‘在你这边，不要试图吓唬我。我想知道你是否猜到我的一些想法。

‘I trouble about them no more than I can help. I’ve quite enough of my own.’
“我对他们的麻烦不过是我帮不上忙而已。”我自己的已经够多了。

‘That’s because they’re so delightful.’
“那是因为它们太令人愉快了。”

Osmond rested his head against the back of his chair and looked at his companion with a cynical directness which seemed also partly an expression of fatigue. ‘You do aggravate me,’ he remarked in a moment. ‘I’m very tired.’
奥斯蒙德把头靠在椅背上，用一种愤世嫉俗的直率看着他的同伴，这似乎也有一种疲惫的表情。 “你确实激怒了我，”他立刻说道。 '我很累。'

‘Eh moi donc!’ cried Madame Merle.
“Eh moi donc！”梅尔夫人喊道。

‘With you it’s because you fatigue yourself. With me it’s not my own fault.’
‘和你在一起，是因为你让自己疲惫不堪。对我来说，这不是我自己的错。

‘When I fatigue myself it’s for you. I’ve given you an interest. That’s a great gift.’
‘当我疲惫不堪的时候，就是为了你。我已经给了你兴趣。这是一份很棒的礼物。

‘Do you call it an interest?’ Osmond enquired with detachment.
“你称之为兴趣吗？”奥斯蒙德超然地问道。

‘Certainly, since it helps you to pass your time.’
“当然，因为它可以帮助你打发时间。”

‘The time has never seemed longer to me than this winter.’
“对我来说，这个冬天的时间从未比现在更长。”

‘You’ve never looked better; you’ve never been so agreeable, so brilliant.’
“你从来没有这么好看过；你从来没有这么和蔼可亲，这么聪明过。”

‘Damn my brilliancy!’ he thoughtfully murmured. ‘How little, after all, you know me!’
“该死的，我的才华！”他若有所思地低声说道。 “毕竟，你对我的了解是多么少啊！”

‘If I don’t know you I know nothing,’ smiled Madame Merle. ‘You’ve the feeling of complete success.’
“如果我不认识你，我就什么都不知道。”梅尔夫人微笑着说道。 “你有一种完全成功的感觉。”

‘No, I shall not have that till I’ve made you stop judging me.’
“不，除非我让你停止评判我，否则我不会这么做。”

‘I did that long ago. I speak from old knowledge. But you express yourself more too.’
‘我很久以前就这么做了。我是根据旧知识说话的。但你也能更多地表达自己。”

Osmond just hung fire. ‘I wish you’d express yourself less!’
奥斯蒙德只是搁置了火。 “我希望你少表达自己的意思！”

‘You wish to condemn me to silence? Remember that I’ve never been a chatterbox. At any rate there are three or four things I should like to say to you first. Your wife doesn’t know what to do with herself,’ she went on with a change of tone.
‘你想谴责我沉默吗？请记住，我从来都不是一个话匣子。无论如何，我首先要对你说三四件事。你的妻子不知道该怎么办，”她改变了语气继续说道。

‘Pardon me; she knows perfectly. She has a line sharply drawn. She means to carry out her ideas.’
'对不起;她非常清楚。她的线条很清晰。她打算实现她的想法。

‘Her ideas to-day must be remarkable.’
“她今天的想法一定很了不起。”

‘Certainly they are. She has more of them than ever.’
“当然是的。”她的数量比以往任何时候都多。

‘She was unable to show me any this morning,’ said Madame Merle. ‘She seemed in a very simple, almost in a stupid, state of mind. She was completely bewildered.’
“今天早上她没能给我看任何东西，”梅尔夫人说。 “她的心态看起来非常简单，几乎是愚蠢的。她完全困惑了。

‘You had better say at once that she was pathetic.’
“你最好立刻说她很可怜。”

‘Ah no, I don’t want to encourage you too much.’
“啊不，我不想过多鼓励你。”

He still had his head against the cushion behind him; the ankle of one foot rested on the other knee. So he sat for a while. ‘I should like to know what’s the matter with you,’ he said at last.
他的头仍然靠在身后的垫子上。一只脚的脚踝搁在另一只膝盖上。于是他坐了一会儿。 “我想知道你怎么了，”他最后说道。

‘The matter-the matter-!’ And here Madame Merle stopped. Then she went on with a sudden outbreak of passion, a burst of summer thunder in a clear sky: ‘The matter is that I would give my right hand to be able to weep, and that I can’t!’
“问题——问题——！”梅尔夫人说到这里停了下来。然后她突然爆发出一股激情，晴朗的天空中响起夏日的雷声，继续说道：“问题是，我愿意伸出我的右手，以便能够哭泣，但我不能！”

‘What good would it do you to weep?’
“哭有什么好处呢？”

‘It would make me feel as I felt before I knew you.’
“这会让我感觉就像在认识你之前一样。”

‘If I’ve dried your tears, that’s something. But I’ve seen you shed them.’
“如果我擦干了你的眼泪，那就很了不起了。但我看到你把它们脱掉了。”

‘Oh, I believe you’ll make me cry still. I mean make me howl like a wolf. I’ve a great hope, I’ve a great need, of that. I was vile this morning; I was horrid,’ she said.
‘哦，我相信你会让我哭得更厉害。我的意思是让我像狼一样嚎叫。我对此抱有很大的希望，我有很大的需要。今天早上我很卑鄙；我太可怕了，”她说。

‘If Isabel was in the stupid state of mind you mention she probably didn’t perceive it,’ Osmond answered.
“如果伊莎贝尔处于你提到的那种愚蠢的心态，她可能没有意识到，”奥斯蒙德回答道。

‘It was precisely my deviltry that stupefied her. I couldn’t help it; I was full of something bad. Perhaps it was something good; I don’t know. You’ve not only dried up my tears; you’ve dried up my soul.’
‘正是我的妖术让她愣住了。我情不自禁；我心里充满了不好的东西。或许这是件好事；我不知道。你不仅擦干了我的眼泪；你已经耗尽了我的灵魂。

‘It’s not I then that am responsible for my wife’s condition,’ Osmond said. ‘It’s pleasant to think that I shall get the benefit of your influence upon her. Don’t you know the soul is an immortal principle? How can it suffer alteration?’
奥斯蒙德说：“那么我妻子的病情就不应该由我负责。” “想到我将从你对她的影响中受益，我感到很高兴。难道你不知道灵魂是不朽的法则吗？它怎么能遭受改变呢？

‘I don’t believe at all that it’s an immortal principle. I believe it can perfectly be destroyed. That’s what has happened to mine, which was a very good one to start with; and it’s you I have to thank for it. You’re very bad,’ she added with gravity in her emphasis.
“我根本不相信这是一个不朽的原则。我相信它可以被完美地摧毁。这就是发生在我身上的事情，这是一个非常好的开始；我要感谢的是你。你太糟糕了。”她严肃地补充道。

‘Is this the way we’re to end?’ Osmond asked with the same studied coldness.
“这就是我们的结局吗？”奥斯蒙德带着同样刻意的冷漠问道。

‘I don’t know how we’re to end. I wish I did! How do bad people end?-especially as to their common crimes. You have made me as bad as yourself.’
‘我不知道我们该如何结束。但愿我做了，可惜我没有！坏人的结局如何？——尤其是他们常见的罪行。你让我变得和你一样糟糕。

‘I don’t understand you. You seem to me quite good enough,’ said Osmond, his conscious indifference giving an extreme effect to the words.
‘我不明白你的意思。在我看来，你已经足够好了。”奥斯蒙德说道，他有意识的冷漠给这句话带来了极端的影响。

Madame Merle’s self-possession tended on the contrary to diminish, and she was nearer losing it than on any occasion on which we have had the pleasure of meeting her. The glow of her eye turned sombre; her smile betrayed a painful effort. ‘Good enough for anything that I’ve done with myself? I suppose that’s what you mean.’
梅尔夫人的自制力反而减弱了，而且比我们有幸见到她的任何场合都更接近于失去它。她眼中的光芒变得阴沉；她的笑容泄露了她痛苦的努力。 “我对自己所做的一切都足够好了吗？”我想这就是你的意思。

‘Good enough to be always charming!’ Osmond exclaimed, smiling too.
“足够好，永远迷人！”奥斯蒙德也微笑着喊道。

‘Oh God!’ his companion murmured; and, sitting there in her ripe freshness, she had recourse to the same gesture she had provoked on Isabel’s part in the morning: she bent her face and covered it with her hands.
“哦上帝！”他的同伴低声说道。她坐在那里，神清气爽，做出了早上伊莎贝尔做出的同样的动作：弯下脸，用手捂住脸。

‘Are you going to weep after all?’ Osmond asked; and on her remaining motionless he went on:
“你到底要哭吗？”奥斯蒙德问。他对着她一动不动地继续说道：

‘Have I ever complained to you?’
“我向你抱怨过吗？”

She dropped her hand quickly. ‘No, you’ve taken your revenge otherwise-you have taken it on her.’
她迅速放下手。 “不，你已经报复了——你已经报复了她。”

Osmond threw back his head further; he looked a while at the ceiling and might have been supposed to be appealing, in an informal way, to the heavenly powers. ‘Oh, the imagination of women! It’s always vulgar, at bottom. You talk of revenge like a third-rate novelist.’
奥斯蒙德把头进一步向后仰。他看了一会儿天花板，可能是在以一种非正式的方式向天上的力量求助。 ‘哦，女人的想象力！从本质上讲，它总是粗俗的。你像一个三流小说家一样谈论复仇。

‘Of course you haven’t complained. You’ve enjoyed your triumph too much.’
‘你当然没有抱怨过。你太享受你的胜利了。

‘I’m rather curious to know what you call my triumph.’
“我很好奇你所说的我的胜利是什么。”

‘You’ve made your wife afraid of you.’
“你让你的妻子害怕你了。”

Osmond changed his position; he leaned forward, resting his elbows on his knees and looking a while at a beautiful old Persian rug, at his feet. He had an air of refusing to accept any one’s valuation of anything, even of time, and of preferring to abide by his own; a peculiarity which made him at moments an irritating person to converse with. ‘Isabel’s not afraid of me, and it’s not what I wish,’ he said at last. ‘To what do you want to provoke me when you say such things as that?’
奥斯蒙德改变了立场；他向前倾身，将肘部放在膝盖上，看了一会儿脚边一块漂亮的旧波斯地毯。他的态度是拒绝接受任何人对任何事物的评价，甚至是对时间的评价，而宁愿遵守自己的评价。这种特质使他有时成为一个令人恼火的人。 “伊莎贝尔并不害怕我，这也不是我所希望的，”他最后说道。 “你说这种话是想激怒我什么？”

‘I’ve thought over all the harm you can do me,’ Madame Merle answered. ‘Your wife was afraid of me this morning, but in me it was really you she feared.’
“我已经考虑过你可能对我造成的所有伤害，”梅尔夫人回答道。 “你的妻子今天早上害怕我，但她害怕的其实是你。”

‘You may have said things that were in very bad taste; I’m not responsible for that. I didn’t see the use of your going to see her at all: you’re capable of acting without her. I’ve not made you afraid of me that I can see,’ he went on; ‘how then should I have made her? You’re at least as brave. I can’t think where you’ve picked up such rubbish; one might suppose you knew me by this time.’ He got up as he spoke and walked to the chimney, where he stood a moment bending his eye, as if he had seen them for the first time, on the delicate specimens of rare porcelain with which it was covered. He took up a small cup and held it in his hand; then, still holding it and leaning his arm on the mantel, he pursued: ‘You always see too much in everything; you overdo it; you lose sight of the real. I’m much simpler than you think.’
‘你可能说了一些非常低俗的话；我对此不负任何责任。我根本不认为你去见她有什么用：没有她你也能行动。我并没有让你害怕我，我看得出来，”他继续说道。 ‘那我该怎么做她呢？你至少同样勇敢。我想不出你从哪里捡到的这些垃圾；人们可能会认为这个时候你已经认识我了。”他边说边站起来，走到烟囱边，在那里站了一会儿，低下眼睛，仿佛他第一次在稀有瓷器的精致标本上看到它们。它被覆盖了。他拿起一个小杯子，捧在手里；然后，他仍然握着它，将手臂靠在壁炉架上，继续说道：“你总是在每件事上看到太多;你做得太过分了；你看不到真实的东西。我比你想象的要简单得多。”

‘I think you’re very simple.’ And Madame Merle kept her eye on her cup. ‘I’ve come to that with time. I judged you, as I say, of old; but it’s only since your marriage that I’ve understood you. I’ve seen better what you have been to your wife than I ever saw what you were for me. Please be very careful of that precious object.’
“我认为你很简单。”梅尔夫人的眼睛一直盯着她的杯子。 “随着时间的推移，我已经意识到了这一点。正如我所说，我从古以来就对你进行过评判；但自从你结婚后我才理解你。我对你对你妻子的了解比对我对你的了解还要深刻。请小心保管那件珍贵的物品。

‘It already has a wee bit of a tiny crack,’ said Osmond dryly as he put it down. ‘If you didn’t understand me before I married it was cruelly rash of you to put me into such a box. However, I took a fancy to my box myself; I thought it would be a comfortable fit. I asked very little; I only asked that she should like me.’
“它已经有了一点点小裂缝，”奥斯蒙德放下它时干巴巴地说。 “如果你在我结婚之前不理解我，那么你把我放在这样的盒子里就太鲁莽了。然而，我自己却看中了我的盒子；我认为这会很舒服。我问得很少；我只是要求她喜欢我。

‘That she should like you so much!’
“她应该非常喜欢你！”

‘So much, of course; in such a case one asks the maximum. That she should adore me, if you will. Oh yes, I wanted that.’
“当然就这么多了；在这种情况下，人们会要求最大值。如果你愿意的话，她应该崇拜我。哦，是的，我想要那个。

‘I never adored you,’ said Madame Merle.
“我从来没有崇拜过你，”梅尔夫人说。

‘Ah, but you pretended to!’
“啊，但你是假装的！”

‘It’s true that you never accused me of being a comfortable fit,’ Madame Merle went on.
“确实，你从来没有指责过我不合身，”梅尔夫人继续说道。

‘My wife has declined-declined to do anything of the sort,’ said Osmond. ‘If you’re determined to make a tragedy of that, the tragedy’s hardly for her.’
“我的妻子拒绝了——拒绝做任何此类事情，”奥斯蒙德说。 “如果你决心要制造一场悲剧，那么这个悲剧就不适合她。”

‘The tragedy’s for me!’ Madame Merle exclaimed, rising with a long low sigh but having a glance at the same time for the contents of her mantel-shelf. ‘It appears that I’m to be severely taught the disadvantages of a false position.’
“悲剧是为我而来的！”梅尔夫人大声说道，她长长地叹了口气，站了起来，但同时又看了一眼壁炉架上的东西。 “看来我要接受严厉的教育，了解错误立场的弊端。”

‘You express yourself like a sentence in a copy-book. We must look for our comfort where we can find it. If my wife doesn’t like me, at least my child does. I shall look for compensations in Pansy. Fortunately I haven’t a fault to find with her.’
“你表达自己就像抄本上的句子一样。我们必须在能找到的地方寻找安慰。如果我的妻子不喜欢我，至少我的孩子喜欢我。我会向潘西寻求补偿。幸运的是，我在她身上挑不出什么毛病。

‘Ah,’ she said softly, ‘if I had a child-!’
“啊，”她轻声说道，“如果我有一个孩子的话——！”

Osmond waited, and then, with a little formal air, ‘The children of others may be a great interest!’ he announced.
奥斯蒙德等待着，然后，带着一点正式的神情，“其他人的孩子可能会引起很大的兴趣！”他宣布。

‘You’re more like a copy-book than I. There’s something after all that holds us together.’
“你比我更像一本习字本。毕竟有一些东西将我们联系在一起。”

‘Is it the idea of the harm I may do you?’ Osmond asked.
“是因为我可能会对你造成伤害吗？”奥斯蒙德问道。

‘No; it’s the idea of the good I may do for you. It’s that,’ Madame Merle pursued, ‘that made me so jealous of Isabel. I want it to be my work,’ she added, with her face, which had grown hard and bitter, relaxing to its habit of smoothness.
'不;这是我可以为你做的好事的想法。 ”梅尔夫人继续说道，“正是这一点让我如此嫉妒伊莎贝尔。我希望它成为我的工作。”她补充道，她的脸变得坚硬而苦涩，放松下来，恢复了光滑的习惯。

Her friend took up his hat and his umbrella, and after giving the former article two or three strokes with his coat-cuff, ‘On the whole, I think,’ he said, ‘you had better leave it to me.’
她的朋友拿起帽子和雨伞，用外套袖口把前一篇文章敲了两三下，然后说道：“总的来说，我想，你最好把它交给我。”

After he had left her she went, the first thing, and lifted from the mantel-shelf the attenuated coffee-cup in which he had mentioned the existence of a crack; but she looked at it rather abstractedly. ‘Have I been so vile all for nothing?’ she vaguely wailed.
他离开后，她第一件事就是从壁炉架上拿起缩小版的咖啡杯，他曾提到杯子里有一条裂缝；但她看着它却相当心不在焉。 “我这么卑鄙难道都是无缘无故的吗？”她含糊地哀嚎道。

Chapter 50
第50章

As the Countess Gemini was not acquainted with the ancient monuments Isabel occasionally offered to introduce her to these interesting relics and to give their afternoon drive an antiquarian aim. The Countess, who professed to think her sister-in-law a prodigy of learning, never made an objection, and gazed at masses of Roman brickwork as patiently as if they had been mounds of modern drapery. She had not the historic sense, though she had in some directions the anecdotic, and as regards herself the apologetic, but she was so delighted to be in Rome that she only desired to float with the current. She would gladly have passed an hour every day in the damp darkness of the Baths of Titus if it had been a condition of her remaining at Palazzo Roccanera. Isabel, however, was not a severe cicerone; she used to visit the ruins chiefly because they offered an excuse for talking about other matters than the love-affairs of the ladies of Florence, as to which her companion was never weary of offering information. It must be added that during these visits the Countess forbade herself every form of active research; her preference was to sit in the carriage and exclaim that everything was most interesting. It was in this manner that she had hitherto examined the Coliseum, to the infinite regret of her niece, who-with all the respect that she owed her-could not see why she should not descend from the vehicle and enter the building. Pansy had so little chance to ramble that her view of the case was not wholly disinterested; it may be divined that she had a secret hope that, once inside, her parents’ guest might be induced to climb to the upper tiers. There came a day when the Countess announced her willingness to undertake this feat-a mild afternoon in March when the windy month expressed itself in occasional puffs of spring. The three ladies went into the Coliseum together, but Isabel left her companions to wander over the place. She had often ascended to those desolate ledges from which the Roman crowd used to bellow applause and where now the wild flowers (when they are allowed) bloom in the deep crevices; and to-day she felt weary and disposed to sit in the despoiled arena. It made an intermission too, for the Countess often asked more from one’s attention than she gave in return; and Isabel believed that when she was alone with her niece she let the dust gather for a moment on the ancient scandals of the Arnide. She so remained below therefore, while Pansy guided her undiscriminating aunt to the steep brick staircase at the foot of which the custodian unlocks the tall wooden gate. The great enclosure was half in shadow; the western sun brought out the pale red tone of the great blocks of travertine-the latent colour that is the only living element in the immense ruin. Here and there wandered a peasant or a tourist, looking up at the far sky-line where, in the clear stillness, a multitude of swallows kept circling and plunging. Isabel presently became aware that one of the other visitors, planted in the middle of the arena, had turned his attention to her own person and was looking at her with a certain little poise of the head which she had some weeks before perceived to be characteristic of baffled but indestructible purpose. Such an attitude, today, could belong only to Mr. Edward Rosier; and this gentleman proved in fact to have been considering the question of speaking to her. When he had assured himself that she was unaccompanied he drew near, remarking that though she would not answer his letters she would perhaps not wholly close her ears to his spoken eloquence. She replied that her stepdaughter was close at hand and that she could only give him five minutes; whereupon he took out his watch and sat down upon a broken block.
由于双子座伯爵夫人不熟悉古代古迹，伊莎贝尔偶尔会向她介绍这些有趣的文物，并让他们下午的车程以古物为目标。伯爵夫人自称认为她的嫂子是一个学识奇才，但她从未提出异议，她耐心地凝视着大量的罗马砖墙，就像它们是一堆现代的窗帘一样。她没有历史感，尽管她在某些方面有轶事，并且对自己有歉意，但她很高兴来到罗马，只想随波逐流。如果这是她留在罗卡内拉宫的条件的话，她很乐意每天在潮湿黑暗的提图斯浴场度过一个小时。然而，伊莎贝尔并不是一个严厉的坏人。她常常去参观废墟，主要是因为它们为谈论佛罗伦萨贵妇们的风流韵事之外的其他事情提供了借口，而她的同伴则乐此不疲地提供信息。必须补充的是，在这些访问期间，伯爵夫人禁止自己进行任何形式的积极研究。她最喜欢的是坐在马车里，感叹一切都是最有趣的。迄今为止，她正是以这种方式检查了体育馆，这让她的侄女无限遗憾，她——尽管她对她充满敬意——不明白为什么她不应该从车上下来并进入建筑物。潘西几乎没有机会闲聊，因此她对这起案件的看法并非完全中立。可以推测，她有一个秘密的希望，即一旦进入，她父母的客人可能会被吸引到上层。 有一天，伯爵夫人宣布她愿意承担这项壮举——三月的一个温和的下午，刮风的月份偶尔出现一阵春天的气息。三位女士一起走进了斗兽场，但伊莎贝尔却留下了她的同伴，在这个地方闲逛。她经常登上那些荒凉的岩架，罗马人群过去常常从那里大声鼓掌，而现在，野花（在允许的情况下）在深深的缝隙中绽放。今天她感到疲倦，打算坐在被掠夺的竞技场上。这也造成了一次中场休息，因为伯爵夫人常常要求人们的关注多于她给予的回报。伊莎贝尔相信，当她单独和侄女在一起时，她让阿尼德古老的丑闻暂时尘埃落定。因此，她就这样留在下面，而潘西则一视同仁地引导她的姨妈走向陡峭的砖楼梯，在楼梯脚下，看门人打开了高高的木门。巨大的围墙一半处于阴影之中。西边的阳光衬托出大块石灰华的淡红色调——这种潜在的颜色是这片巨大废墟中唯一的生命元素。到处都有农民或游客漫步，抬头望着远处的天际线，在清澈的寂静中，一群燕子不停地盘旋和俯冲。伊莎贝尔很快意识到，坐在竞技场中央的另一位访客已经将注意力转向了她自己，并且用一种平静的态度看着她，几周前她就认为这是一种特有的态度。令人困惑但坚不可摧的目的。今天，这种态度只能属于爱德华·罗齐尔先生。事实证明，这位先生一直在考虑要不要跟她说话。 当他确信她无人陪伴时，他走近了一步，说道，尽管她不会回信，但她也许不会完全不听他雄辩的话。她回答说，她的继女就在附近，她只能给他五分钟；于是他拿出手表，坐在一块破木块上。

‘It’s very soon told,’ said Edward Rosier. ‘I’ve sold all my bibelots!’ Isabel gave instinctively an exclamation of horror; it was as if he had told her he had had all his teeth drawn. ‘I’ve sold them by auction at the Hotel Drouot,’ he went on. ‘The sale took place three days ago, and they’ve telegraphed me the result. It’s magnificent.’
“很快就被告知了，”爱德华·罗齐尔说。 “我已经卖掉了所有的比贝洛特！”伊莎贝尔本能地惊呼起来。就好像他告诉她他已经拔掉了所有牙齿。 “我在德鲁奥酒店通过拍卖把它们卖了，”他继续说道。 “拍卖是在三天前进行的，他们已将结果电报给我。太棒了。

‘I’m glad to hear it; but I wish you had kept your pretty things.’
“我很高兴听到这个消息；但我希望你能保留你的漂亮东西。”

‘I have the money instead-fifty thousand dollars. Will Mr. Osmond think me rich enough now?’
“我有钱——五万美元。”奥斯蒙德先生会认为我现在足够富有了吗？

‘Is it for that you did it?’ Isabel asked gently.
“你就是为了这个才这么做的吗？”伊莎贝尔温和地问道。

‘For what else in the world could it be? That’s the only thing I think of. I went to Paris and made my arrangements. I couldn’t stop for the sale; I couldn’t have seen them going off; I think it would have killed me. But I put them into good hands, and they brought high prices. I should tell you I have kept my enamels. Now I have the money in my pocket, and he can’t say I’m poor!’ the young man exclaimed defiantly.
‘这世界上还能有什么呢？这是我唯一想到的。我去了巴黎并做了安排。我无法停下来进行销售；我不可能看到他们离开；我想这会杀了我。但我把它们交给了好人，它们带来了高价。我应该告诉你我保留了我的牙釉质。现在我口袋里有钱了，他不能说我穷！”年轻人挑衅地说道。

‘He’ll say now that you’re not wise,’ said Isabel, as if Gilbert Osmond had never said this before.
“他现在会说你不明智，”伊莎贝尔说道，仿佛吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德以前从未说过这句话。

Rosier gave her a sharp look. ‘Do you mean that without my bibelots I’m nothing? Do you mean they were the best thing about me? That’s what they told me in Paris; oh they were very frank about it. But they hadn’t seen her!’
罗齐尔锐利地看了她一眼。 “你的意思是说，没有我的 Bibelots，我什么都不是？你的意思是他们是我身上最好的东西吗？这是他们在巴黎告诉我的；哦，他们对此非常坦率。但他们没有看到她！

‘My dear friend, you deserve to succeed,’ said Isabel very kindly.
“我亲爱的朋友，你值得成功，”伊莎贝尔非常友善地说。

‘You say that so sadly that it’s the same as if you said I shouldn’t.’ And he questioned her eyes with the clear trepidation of his own. He had the air of a man who knows he has been the talk of Paris for a week and is full half a head taller in consequence, but who also has a painful suspicion that in spite of this increase of stature one or two persons still have the perversity to think him diminutive. ‘I know what happened here while I was away,’ he went on. ‘What does Mr. Osmond expect after she has refused Lord Warburton?’
“你这么悲伤地说，就好像你说我不应该一样。”他用他自己明显的恐惧来询问她的眼睛。他的神情就像一个知道自己已经成为巴黎一周话题的人，结果长高了半个头，但他也痛苦地怀疑，尽管身材增加了，有一两个人仍然认为他身材矮小是一种反常行为。 “我知道我不在的时候这里发生了什么，”他继续说道。 “在她拒绝了沃伯顿勋爵之后，奥斯蒙德先生期待什么？”

Isabel debated. ‘That she’ll marry another nobleman.’
伊莎贝尔辩论道。 “她会嫁给另一个贵族。”

‘What other nobleman?’
“还有什么贵族？”

‘One that he’ll pick out.’
“他会挑选一个。”

Rosier slowly got up, putting his watch into his waistcoat-pocket.
罗齐尔缓缓起身，将手表放进背心口袋里。

‘You’re laughing at some one, but this time I don’t think it’s at me.’
“你在嘲笑某人，但这次我不认为是在嘲笑我。”

‘I didn’t mean to laugh,’ said Isabel. ‘I laugh very seldom. Now you had better go away.’
“我不是故意笑的，”伊莎贝尔说。 “我很少笑。现在你最好走开。

‘I feel very safe!’ Rosier declared without moving. This might be; but it evidently made him feel more so to make the announcement in rather a loud voice, balancing himself a little complacently on his toes and looking all round the Coliseum as if it were filled with an audience. Suddenly Isabel saw him change colour; there was more of an audience than he had suspected. She turned and perceived that her two companions had returned from their excursion. ‘You must really go away,’ she said quickly.
“我感觉很安全！”罗齐尔不动声色地说道。这可能是；但显然，用相当大的声音宣布这一消息让他感觉更强烈，他有点自满地踮起脚尖，环视竞技场，好像里面挤满了观众。突然，伊莎贝尔看到他脸色变了。观众比他想象的还要多。她转过头，发现两个同伴已经出差回来了。 “你真的必须走开，”她很快说道。

‘Ah, my dear lady, pity me!’ Edward Rosier murmured in a voice strangely at variance with the announcement I have just quoted. And then he added eagerly, like a man who in the midst of his misery is seized by a happy thought: ‘Is that lady the Countess Gemini? I’ve a great desire to be presented to her.’
“啊，我亲爱的女士，可怜我吧！”爱德华·罗齐尔低声说道，声音奇怪地与我刚才引用的声明不一致。然后他像一个在痛苦中被幸福的想法抓住的人一样急切地补充道：“那位女士是双子座伯爵夫人吗？”我非常希望能被介绍给她。

Isabel looked at him a moment. ‘She has no influence with her brother.’
伊莎贝尔看了他一会儿。 “她对她哥哥没有影响力。”

‘Ah, what a monster you make him out!’ And Rosier faced the Countess, who advanced, in front of Pansy, with an animation partly due perhaps to the fact that she perceived her sister-in-law to be engaged in conversation with a very pretty young man.
“啊，你把他看成是个怪物！”罗齐尔面对伯爵夫人，伯爵夫人走到潘西面前，表情很激动，部分原因可能是她察觉到她的嫂子正在与她交谈。一个非常漂亮的年轻人。

‘I’m glad you’ve kept your enamels!’ Isabel called as she left him. She went straight to Pansy, who, on seeing Edward Rosier, had stopped short, with lowered eyes. ‘We’ll go back to the carriage,’ she said gently.
“我很高兴你保留了牙釉质！”伊莎贝尔离开他时喊道。她径直走向潘西，而潘西一看到爱德华·罗齐尔，就停下来，垂下眼睛。 “我们回马车去。”她温柔地说。

‘Yes, it’s getting late,’ Pansy returned more gently still. And she went on without a murmur, without faltering or glancing back.
“是的，已经很晚了。”Pansy 更加温和地回答道。她一声不吭地继续往前走，没有犹豫，也没有回头看一眼。

Isabel, however, allowing herself this last liberty, saw that a meeting had immediately taken place between the Countess and Mr. Rosier. He had removed his hat and was bowing and smiling; he had evidently introduced himself, while the Countess’s expressive back displayed to Isabel’s eye a gracious inclination. These facts, none the less, were presently lost to sight, for Isabel and Pansy took their places again in the carriage. Pansy, who faced her stepmother, at first kept her eyes fixed on her lap; then she raised them and rested them on Isabel’s. There shone out of each of them a little melancholy ray-a spark of timid passion which touched Isabel to the heart. At the same time a wave of envy passed over her soul, as she compared the tremulous longing, the definite ideal of the child with her own dry despair. ‘Poor little Pansy!’ she affectionately said.
然而，伊莎贝尔在给予自己最后的自由时，发现伯爵夫人和罗齐尔先生立即进行了会面。他摘下帽子，微笑着鞠躬。他显然已经做了自我介绍，而伯爵夫人富有表情的背影在伊莎贝尔眼中展现出一种亲切的倾向。尽管如此，这些事实很快就消失了，因为伊莎贝尔和潘西又回到了马车上。潘西面对着她的继母，一开始她的目光一直盯着她的腿上；后来，她的眼睛一直盯着她的腿。然后她把它们举起来放在伊莎贝尔的身上。他们每个人身上都闪烁着一丝忧郁的光芒——一种胆怯的激情火花，触动了伊莎贝尔的心。与此同时，当她将孩子的颤抖的渴望和明确的理想与自己干枯的绝望进行比较时，一股嫉妒的浪潮席卷了她的灵魂。 “可怜的小潘西！”她深情地说。

‘Oh never mind!’ Pansy answered in the tone of eager apology.
“噢，没关系！”潘西用急切的道歉语气回答。

And then there was a silence; the Countess was a long time coming. ‘Did you show your aunt everything, and did she enjoy it?’ Isabel asked at last.
然后是一片寂静。伯爵夫人姗姗来迟。 “你把所有东西都给你阿姨看了了吗？她喜欢吗？”伊莎贝尔最后问道。

‘Yes, I showed her everything. I think she was very much pleased.’
“是的，我向她展示了一切。我认为她非常高兴。

‘And you’re not tired, I hope.’
“我希望你不累。”

‘Oh no, thank you, I’m not tired.’
“哦，不，谢谢你，我不累。”

The Countess still remained behind, so that Isabel requested the footman to go into the Coliseum and tell her they were waiting. He presently returned with the announcement that the Signora Contessa begged them not to wait-she would come home in a cab!’
伯爵夫人仍然留在后面，因此伊莎贝尔要求男仆进入竞技场并告诉她他们正在等待。不久他就回来了，并宣布伯爵夫人恳求他们不要再等了——她会坐出租车回家！

About a week after this lady’s quick sympathies had enlisted themselves with Mr. Rosier, Isabel, going rather late to dress for dinner, found Pansy sitting in her room. The girl seemed to have been awaiting her; she got up from her low chair. ‘Pardon my taking the liberty,’ she said in a small voice. ‘It will be the last-for some time.’
这位女士很快对罗齐尔先生产生了同情，大约一周后，伊莎贝尔很晚才穿好衣服去吃晚饭，发现潘西坐在她的房间里。女孩似乎一直在等她。她从矮椅子上站起来。 “请原谅我冒昧，”她小声说道。 “这将是一段时间内的最后一次。”

Her voice was strange, and her eyes, widely opened, had an excited, frightened look. ‘You’re not going away!’ Isabel exclaimed.
她的声音很奇怪，她的眼睛睁得大大的，神情兴奋又惊恐。 “你不会走的！”伊莎贝尔喊道。

‘I’m going to the convent.’
“我要去修道院。”

‘To the convent?’
“去修道院？”

Pansy drew nearer, till she was near enough to put her arms round Isabel and rest her head on her shoulder. She stood this way a moment, perfectly still; but her companion could feel her tremble. The quiver of her little body expressed everything she was unable to say. Isabel nevertheless pressed her. ‘Why are you going to the convent?’
潘西走近了一些，直到她可以用双臂搂住伊莎贝尔，把头靠在她的肩膀上。她就这么站了一会儿，一动不动。但她的同伴能感觉到她的颤抖。她小小的身体的颤抖表达了她无法说出的一切。尽管如此，伊莎贝尔仍向她施压。 “你为什么要去修道院？”

‘Because papa thinks it best. He says a young girl’s better, every now and then, for making a little retreat. He says the world, always the world, is very bad for a young girl. This is just a chance for a little seclusion-a little reflexion.’ Pansy spoke in short detached sentences, as if she could scarce trust herself; and then she added with a triumph of self-control: ‘I think papa’s right; I’ve been so much in the world this winter.’
‘因为爸爸认为这是最好的。他说，年轻女孩最好时不时地退缩一下。他说这个世界，永远是这个世界，对于一个年轻女孩来说非常糟糕。这只是一个稍微隐居的机会——一点反思。然后她以自我控制的胜利补充道：“我认为爸爸是对的；”这个冬天我在这个世界上经历了很多事情。

Her announcement had a strange effect on Isabel; it seemed to carry a larger meaning than the girl herself knew. ‘When was this decided?’ she asked. ‘I’ve heard nothing of it.’
她的宣布对伊莎贝尔产生了奇怪的影响。这似乎比女孩自己所知道的意义更大。 “什么时候决定的？”她问道。 “我什么也没听说过。”

‘Papa told me half an hour ago; he thought it better it shouldn’t be too much talked about in advance. Madame Catherine’s to come for me at a quarter past seven, and I’m only to take two frocks. It’s only for a few weeks; I’m sure it will be very good. I shall find all those ladies who used to be so kind to me, and I shall see the little girls who are being educated. I’m very fond of little girls,’ said Pansy with an effect of diminutive grandeur. ‘And I’m also very fond of Mother Catherine. I shall be very quiet and think a great deal.’
“爸爸半小时前告诉我的；他认为最好不要提前谈论太多。凯瑟琳夫人七点一刻来接我，我只带两件连衣裙。这只持续几个星期；我相信这会非常好。我将找到所有那些曾经对我如此友善的女士，我将看到那些正在接受教育的小女孩。我非常喜欢小女孩。”潘西说道，语气中带着一种娇小的威严。 “我也很喜欢凯瑟琳母亲。我会非常安静，想很多事情。

Isabel listened to her, holding her breath; she was almost awe-struck.
伊莎贝尔屏住呼吸听她说话。她几乎被惊呆了。

‘Think of me sometimes.’
“有时想想我。”

‘Ah, come and see me soon!’ cried Pansy; and the cry was very different from the heroic remarks of which she had just delivered herself.
“啊，快来见我吧！”潘西喊道。这呼喊与她刚刚发表的英雄言论截然不同。

Isabel could say nothing more; she understood nothing; she only felt how little she yet knew her husband. Her answer to his daughter was a long, tender kiss.
伊莎贝尔再也无法再说什么了。她什么也不明白；她只觉得自己对丈夫的了解是多么的少。她对女儿的回应是一个漫长而温柔的吻。

Half an hour later she learned from her maid that Madame Catherine had arrived in a cab and had departed again with the signorina. On going to the drawing-room before dinner she found the Countess Gemini alone, and this lady characterized the incident by exclaiming, with a wonderful toss of the head, ‘En voila, ma chere, une pose!’ But if it was an affectation she was at a loss to see what her husband affected. She could only dimly perceive that he had more traditions than she supposed. It had become her habit to be so careful as to what she said to him that, strange as it may appear, she hesitated, for several minutes after he had come in, to allude to his daughter’s sudden departure: she spoke of it only after they were seated at table. But she had forbidden herself ever to ask Osmond a question. All she could do was to make a declaration, and there was one that came very naturally. ‘I shall miss Pansy very much.’
半小时后，她从女仆那里得知，凯瑟琳夫人已乘出租车抵达，并与夫人再次离开。晚餐前去客厅时，她发现双子座伯爵夫人独自一人，这位女士用美妙的摇头来描述这一事件，“瞧，ma chere，une pose！”但如果这是一种做作的话她不知道她丈夫受到了什么影响。她只能隐隐约约地感觉到，他的传统比她想象的还要多。她习惯于对他说的话如此小心，尽管这看起来很奇怪，但在他进来后的几分钟里，她犹豫着是否要提及他女儿的突然离开：她只是在他进来后才谈到这件事。他们坐在桌边。但她禁止自己向奥斯蒙德提问。她能做的就是做出一个声明，而且是很自然的声明。 “我会非常想念潘西。”

He looked a while, with his head inclined a little, at the basket of flowers in the middle of the table. ‘Ah yes,’ he said at last, ‘I had thought of that. You must go and see her, you know; but not too often. I dare say you wonder why I sent her to the good sisters; but I doubt if I can make you understand. It doesn’t matter; don’t trouble yourself about it. That’s why I had not spoken of it. I didn’t believe you would enter into it. But I’ve always had the idea; I’ve always thought it a part of the education of one’s daughter. One’s daughter should be fresh and fair; she should be innocent and gentle. With the manners of the present time she is liable to become so dusty and crumpled. Pansy’s a little dusty, a little dishevelled; she has knocked about too much. This bustling, pushing rabble that calls itself society-one should take her out of it occasionally. Convents are very quiet, very convenient, very salutary. I like to think of her there, in the old garden, under the arcade, among those tranquil virtuous women. Many of them are gentlewomen born; several of them are noble. She will have her books and her drawing, she will have her piano. I’ve made the most liberal arrangements. There is to be nothing ascetic; there’s just to be a certain little sense of sequestration. She’ll have time to think, and there’s something I want her to think about.’ Osmond spoke deliberately, reasonably, still with his head on one side, as if he were looking at the basket of flowers. His tone, however, was that of a man not so much offering an explanation as putting a thing into words-almost into pictures-to see, himself, how it would look. He considered a while the picture he had evoked and seemed greatly pleased with it. And then he went on: ‘The Catholics are very wise after all. The convent is a great institution; we can’t do without it; it corresponds to an essential need in families, in society. It’s a school of good manners; it’s a school of repose. Oh, I don’t want to detach my daughter from the world,’ he added; ‘I don’t want to make her fix her thoughts on any other. This one’s very well, as she should take it, and she may think of it as much as she likes. Only she must think of it in the right way.’
他微微侧着头，看了一会儿桌子中间的花篮。 “啊，是的，”他最后说道，“我已经想到了这一点。”你知道，你必须去看她；但不要太频繁。我敢说你想知道为什么我把她送到好姐妹那里；但我怀疑我能否让你理解。没关系;别为此烦恼。这就是为什么我没有谈到它。我不相信你会参与其中。但我一直有这个想法；我一直认为这是对女儿教育的一部分。女儿要清新白皙；她应该天真、温柔。按照现在的风俗习惯，她很容易变得满身灰尘、皱巴巴的。潘西有点脏，有点凌乱；她已经敲得太多了。这个自称为社会的熙熙攘攘、咄咄逼人的乌合之众——人们应该偶尔带她脱离其中。修道院很安静，很方便，很有益。我喜欢想起她，在古老的花园里，在拱廊下，在那些宁静贤淑的妇女中间。她们中的许多人都是出身名门淑女；其中有几个是贵族。她会有她的书和她的画，她会有她的钢琴。我已经做了最宽松的安排。没有什么是苦行的；只是有某种小小的隔离感。她会有时间思考的，而且有件事我想让她思考。”奥斯蒙德说话时，故意而合理，头仍然偏向一侧，仿佛在看着花篮。然而，他的语气与其说是提供解释，不如说是用文字（几乎是用图片）来表达一件事，然后亲自看看它会是什么样子。他思考了一会儿他所唤起的画面，似乎对此非常满意。然后他继续说道：“天主教徒毕竟是非常明智的。” 修道院是一个伟大的机构；我们离不开它；它符合家庭和社会的基本需求。这是一所讲礼貌的学校；这是一所宁静的学校。哦，我不想让我的女儿与这个世界分离，”他补充道； “我不想让她把自己的想法固定在任何其他事情上。这个很好，她应该接受，她想怎么想就怎么想。只是她必须以正确的方式思考。’

Isabel gave an extreme attention to this little sketch; she found it indeed intensely interesting. It seemed to show her how far her husband’s desire to be effective was capable of going-to the point of playing theoretic tricks on the delicate organism of his daughter. She could not understand his purpose, no-not wholly; but she understood it better than he supposed or desired, inasmuch as she was convinced that the whole proceeding was an elaborate mystification, addressed to herself and destined to act upon her imagination. He had wanted to do something sudden and arbitrary, something unexpected and refined; to mark the difference between his sympathies and her own, and show that if he regarded his daughter as a precious work of art it was natural he should be more and more careful about the finishing touches. If he wished to be effective he had succeeded; the incident struck a chill into Isabel’s heart. Pansy had known the convent in her childhood and had found a happy home there; she was fond of the good sisters, who were very fond of her, and there was therefore for the moment no definite hardship in her lot. But all the same the girl had taken fright; the impression her father desired to make would evidently be sharp enough. The old Protestant tradition had never faded from Isabel’s imagination, and as her thoughts attached themselves to this striking example of her husband’s genius-she sat looking, like him, at the basket of flowers-poor little Pansy became the heroine of a tragedy. Osmond wished it to be known that he shrank from nothing, and his wife found it hard to pretend to eat her dinner. There was a certain relief presently, in hearing the high, strained voice of her sister-in-law. The Countess too, apparently, had been thinking the thing out, but had arrived at a different conclusion from Isabel.
伊莎贝尔对这个小草图给予了极大的关注。她发现这确实非常有趣。这似乎向她表明，她丈夫对高效的渴望能够达到多大程度，甚至到了对他女儿脆弱的机体进行理论欺骗的地步。她不明白他的目的，不——不完全明白。但她比他想象或期望的更理解它，因为她确信整个过程是一个精心设计的神秘事件，是针对她自己的，注定要按照她的想象行事。他本来想做一些突然而任意的事情，一些出人意料而精致的事情；但他并没有这样做。以此来区分他和她的同情心，并表明如果他把他的女儿视为一件珍贵的艺术品，那么他自然应该在最后的润色上越来越小心。如果他希望有效，他就成功了；如果他希望有效，他就成功了。这件事让伊莎贝尔心里一阵寒意。潘西童年时就知道这座修道院，并在那里找到了一个幸福的家。她很喜欢那些好姐妹，她们也很喜欢她，因此目前她的处境并没有什么明确的困难。但尽管如此，女孩还是感到害怕。她父亲想要给人留下的印象显然是足够鲜明的。古老的新教传统从未从伊莎贝尔的想象中消失，当她的思绪附着在她丈夫天才的这个引人注目的例子上时——她像他一样，坐在那儿看着花篮——可怜的小潘西成了悲剧的女主角。奥斯蒙德希望人们知道他对任何事情都畏缩不前，而他的妻子发现很难假装吃晚饭。听到嫂子那高亢、紧张的声音，我立刻松了口气。 显然，伯爵夫人也一直在思考这个问题，但得出的结论与伊莎贝尔不同。

‘It’s very absurd, my dear Osmond,’ she said, ‘to invent so many pretty reasons for poor Pansy’s banishment. Why don’t you say at once that you want to get her out of my way? Haven’t you discovered that I think very well of Mr. Rosier? I do indeed; he seems to me simpaticissimo. He has made me believe in true love; I never did before! Of course you’ve made up your mind that with those convictions I’m dreadful company for Pansy.’
“亲爱的奥斯蒙德，”她说，“为可怜的潘西的流放编造了这么多漂亮的理由，这太荒谬了。”你为什么不立刻说你想让她别挡我的路呢？难道你没有发现我对罗齐尔先生的评价很好吗？我确实如此；我觉得他很和蔼可亲。他让我相信了真爱；我以前从来没有做过！当然，你已经下定决心，有了这些信念，我对潘西来说是一个可怕的伙伴。

Osmond took a sip of a glass of wine; he looked perfectly good humoured. ‘My dear Amy,’ he answered, smiling as if he were uttering a piece of gallantry, ‘I don’t know anything about your convictions, but if I suspected that they interfere with mine it would be much simpler to banish you.’
奥斯蒙德抿了一口酒；他看上去心情很好。 “我亲爱的艾米，”他微笑着回答，仿佛在表达一种殷勤，“我对你的信念一无所知，但如果我怀疑它们干扰了我的信念，驱逐你会简单得多。”

Chapter 51
第51章

The Countess was not banished, but she felt the insecurity of her tenure of her brother’s hospitality. A week after this incident Isabel received a telegram from England, dated from Gardencourt and bearing the stamp of Mrs. Touchett’s authorship. ‘Ralph cannot last many days,’ it ran, ‘and if convenient would like to see you. Wishes me to say that you must come only if you’ve not other duties. Say, for myself, that you used to talk a good deal about your duty and to wonder what it was; shall be curious to see whether you’ve found it out. Ralph is really dying, and there’s no other company.’ Isabel was prepared for this news, having received from Henrietta Stackpole a detailed account of her journey to England with her appreciative patient. Ralph had arrived more dead than alive, but she had managed to convey him to Gardencourt, where he had taken to his bed, which, as Miss Stackpole wrote, he evidently would never leave again. She added that she had really had two patients on her hands instead of one, inasmuch as Mr. Goodwood, who had been of no earthly use, was quite as ailing, in a different way, as Mr. Touchett. Afterwards she wrote that she had been obliged to surrender the field to Mrs. Touchett, who had just returned from America and had promptly given her to understand that she didn’t wish any interviewing at Gardencourt. Isabel had written to her aunt shortly after Ralph came to Rome, letting her know of his critical condition and suggesting that she should lose no time in returning to Europe. Mrs. Touchett had telegraphed an acknowledgement of this admonition, and the only further news Isabel received from her was the second telegram I have just quoted.
伯爵夫人没有被放逐，但她对哥哥的热情好客感到不安全。事件发生一周后，伊莎贝尔收到一封来自英国的电报，日期是加登考特，并盖有图切特夫人的署名印章。 “拉尔夫不能坚持很多天，”上面写道，“如果方便的话，他想见见你。”希望我说，只有当您没有其他职责时，您才必须来。就我自己而言，你曾经经常谈论你的职责，并想知道它是什么；你一定会好奇你是否发现了它。拉尔夫真的快要死了，没有其他人陪伴了。”伊莎贝尔已经做好了这个消息的准备，因为她从亨丽埃塔·斯塔克波尔那里收到了她与这位充满感激的病人一起前往英国的旅程的详细描述。拉尔夫到达时已经死了，生不如死，但她设法把他送到花园庭院，在那里他躺在床上，正如斯塔克波尔小姐所写，他显然永远不会再离开了。她补充说，她手头上确实有两个病人，而不是一个，因为古德伍德先生在世上毫无用处，但与图切特先生一样，病得很重，只是方式不同。后来她写道，她不得不把这个领域让给刚从美国回来的图切特夫人，她立即让她明白，她不希望在花园考特接受任何采访。拉尔夫来到罗马后不久，伊莎贝尔就写信给她的姨妈，让她知道他的病情危急，并建议她立即返回欧洲。塔切特夫人已发电报确认这一警告，伊莎贝尔从她那里收到的唯一进一步消息是我刚才引用的第二封电报。

Isabel stood a moment looking at the latter missive; then, thrusting it into her pocket, she went straight to the door of her husband’s study. Here she again paused an instant, after which she opened the door and went in. Osmond was seated at the table near the window with a folio volume before him, propped against a pile of books. This volume was open at a page of small coloured plates, and Isabel presently saw that he had been copying from it the drawing of an antique coin. A box of water-colours and fine brushes lay before him, and he had already transferred to a sheet of immaculate paper the delicate, finely-tinted disk. His back was turned toward the door, but he recognized his wife without looking round.
伊莎贝尔站了一会儿，看着后一封信。然后，她把它塞进口袋，直奔丈夫的书房门口。说到这里，她又停顿了一下，然后打开门走了进去。奥斯蒙德坐在靠窗的桌子旁，面前放着一本对开本，靠在一堆书上。这本书打开了一页小彩板，伊莎贝尔立即看到他正在从中临摹一枚古钱币的图画。他面前放着一盒水彩画和精美的画笔，他已经把精致、色彩精美的圆盘转移到一张完美的纸上。他背对着门，但没有回头就认出了他的妻子。

‘Excuse me for disturbing you,’ she said.
“抱歉打扰你了，”她说。

‘When I come to your room I always knock,’ he answered, going on with his work.
“当我来到你的房间时，我总是敲门，”他回答道，继续工作。

‘I forgot; I had something else to think of. My cousin’s dying.’
'我忘了;我还有别的事情要考虑。我的表弟快要死了。

‘Ah, I don’t believe that,’ said Osmond, looking at his drawing through a magnifying glass. ‘He was dying when we married; he’ll outlive us all.’
“啊，我不相信，”奥斯蒙德说，通过放大镜看着他的画。 “我们结婚时他就快要死了；他会比我们所有人都活得更长久。

Isabel gave herself no time, no thought, to appreciate the careful cynicism of this declaration; she simply went on quickly, full of her own intention: ‘My aunt has telegraphed for me; I must go to Gardencourt.’
伊莎贝尔没有给自己时间、没有思考去欣赏这一声明中谨慎的愤世嫉俗。她只是快速地继续说下去，充满了她自己的意图：“我的姨妈已经给我发电报了；”我必须去花园考特。

‘Why must you go to Gardencourt?’ Osmond asked in the tone of impartial curiosity.
“你为什么一定要去花园考特？”奥斯蒙德用公正好奇的语气问道。

‘To see Ralph before he dies.’
“在拉尔夫去世之前见他一面。”

To this, for some time, he made no rejoinder; he continued to give his chief attention to his work, which was of a sort that would brook no negligence.
对此，有一段时间他没有反驳。他继续把主要注意力放在他的工作上，这是一种不容疏忽的工作。

‘I don’t see the need of it,’ he said at last. ‘He came to see you here. didn’t like that; I thought his being in Rome a great mistake. But I tolerated it because it was to be the last time you should see him. Now you tell me it’s not to have been the last. Ah, you’re not grateful!’
“我认为没有必要，”他最后说道。 ‘他来这里见你。不喜欢那样；我认为他在罗马是一个巨大的错误。但我容忍了，因为这是你最后一次见到他。现在你告诉我这不是最后一次。啊，你不懂得感恩！

‘What am I to be grateful for?’
“我有什么值得感激的？”

Gilbert Osmond laid down his little implements, blew a speck of dust from his drawing, slowly got up, and for the first time looked at his wife. ‘For my not having interfered while he was here.’
吉尔伯特·奥斯蒙德放下他的小工具，吹掉画上的一粒灰尘，慢慢站起来，第一次看着他的妻子。 “因为他在的时候我没有干涉。”

‘Oh yes, I am. I remember perfectly how distinctly you let me know you didn’t like it. I was very glad when he went away.’
'噢是的我是。我清楚地记得你是如何清楚地让我知道你不喜欢它。当他离开时我很高兴。

‘Leave him alone then. Don’t run after him.’
‘那就别管他了。别追他。

Isabel turned her eyes away from him; they rested upon his little drawing. ‘I must go to England,’ she said, with a full consciousness that her tone might strike an irritable man of taste as stupidly obstinate.
伊莎贝尔把目光从他身上移开。他们停在他的小画上。 “我必须去英国，”她说，她完全意识到她的语气可能会让一个易怒的有品位的人觉得她愚蠢地固执。

‘I shall not like it if you do,’ Osmond remarked.
“如果你这样做，我不会喜欢的，”奥斯蒙德说道。

‘Why should I mind that? You won’t like it if I don’t. You like nothing do or don’t do. You pretend to think I lie.’
‘我为什么要介意这个？如果我不这样做你就不会喜欢它。你喜欢什么都不做或不做。你假装认为我在撒谎。

Osmond turned slightly pale; he gave a cold smile. ‘That’s why you must go then? Not to see your cousin, but to take a revenge on me.’
奥斯蒙德脸色微微苍白。他冷冷一笑。 ‘这就是为什么你必须走？不是为了见你表弟，而是为了向我报仇。”

‘I know nothing about revenge.’
“我对复仇一无所知。”

‘I do,’ said Osmond. ‘Don’t give me an occasion.’
“我愿意，”奥斯蒙德说。 “别给我机会。”

‘You’re only too eager to take one. You wish immensely that I would commit some folly.’
‘你实在是太渴望得到一个了。你非常希望我干点蠢事。”

‘I should be gratified in that case if you disobeyed me.’
“如果你不服从我的话，我会感到高兴。”

‘If I disobeyed you?’ said Isabel in a low tone which had the effect of mildness.
“如果我不听你的话呢？”伊莎贝尔低声说道，显得很温和。

‘Let it be clear. If you leave Rome to-day it will be a piece of the most deliberate, the most calculated, opposition.’
‘说清楚吧。如果你今天离开罗马，这将是一场最深思熟虑、最有计划的反对。

‘How can you call it calculated? I received my aunt’s telegram but three minutes ago.’
‘你怎么能称之为算计呢？我三分钟前就收到了姑妈的电报。”

‘You calculate rapidly; it’s a great accomplishment. I don’t see why we should prolong our discussion; you know my wish.’ And he stood there as if he expected to see her withdraw.
‘你计算得很快；这是一项伟大的成就。我不明白我们为什么要延长讨论时间；你知道我的愿望。”他站在那里，仿佛期待看到她退出。

But she never moved; she couldn’t move, strange as it may seem; she still wished to justify herself; he had the power, in an extraordinary degree, of making her feel this need. There was something in her imagination he could always appeal to against her judgement. ‘You’ve no reason for such a wish,’ said Isabel, ‘and I’ve every reason for going. I can’t tell you how unjust you seem to me. But I think you know. It’s your own opposition that’s calculated. It’s malignant.’
但她一动不动；她无法动弹，这看起来很奇怪。她还想为自己辩解；他有能力在非凡的程度上让她感受到这种需要。他总能利用她的想象来反对她的判断。 “你没有理由有这样的愿望，”伊莎贝尔说，“而我完全有理由去。”我无法告诉你你对我来说是多么不公正。但我想你知道。这是你自己计算出来的反对意见。这是恶性的。

She had never uttered her worst thought to her husband before, and the sensation of hearing it was evidently new to Osmond. But he showed no surprise, and his coolness was apparently a proof that he had believed his wife would in fact be unable to resist for ever his ingenious endeavour to draw her out. ‘It’s all the more intense then,’ he answered. And he added almost as if he were giving her a friendly counsel: ‘This is a very important matter.’ She recognized that; she was fully conscious of the weight of the occasion; she knew that between them they had arrived at a crisis. Its gravity made her careful; she said nothing, and he went on. ‘You say I’ve no reason? I have the very best. I dislike, from the bottom of my soul, what you intend to do. It’s dishonourable; it’s indelicate; it’s indecent. Your cousin is nothing whatever to me, and I’m under no obligation to make concessions to him. I’ve already made the very handsomest. Your relations with him, while he was here, kept me on pins and needles; but I let that pass, because from week to week I expected him to go. I’ve never liked him and he has never liked me. That’s why you like him-because he hates me,’ said Osmond with a quick, barely audible tremor in his voice. ‘I’ve an ideal of what my wife should do and should not do. She should not travel across Europe alone, in defiance of my deepest desire, to sit at the bedside of other men. Your cousin’s nothing to you; he’s nothing to us. You smile most expressively when I talk about us, but I assure you that we, Mrs. Osmond, is all I know. I take our marriage seriously; you appear to have found a way of not doing so. I’m not aware that we’re divorced or separated; for me we’re indissolubly united. You are nearer to me than any human creature, and I’m nearer to you. It may be a disagreeable proximity; it’s one, at any rate, of our own deliberate making. You don’t like to be reminded of that, I know; but I’m perfectly willing, because-because-’ And he paused a moment, looking as if he had something to say which would be very much to the point. ‘Because I think we should accept the consequences of our actions, and what I value most in life is the honour of a thing!’
她以前从未对丈夫说过她最坏的想法，而听到这句话的感觉对奥斯蒙德来说显然是新鲜的。但他并没有表现出惊讶，他的冷静显然证明他相信他的妻子实际上永远无法抗拒他将她引出来的巧妙努力。 “那么就更加激烈了，”他回答道。他补充道，就像是在给她一个友好的建议：“这是一件非常重要的事情。”她意识到了这一点；她意识到了这一点。她完全意识到这个场合的重要性。她知道他们之间已经出现了危机。它的重力让她小心翼翼。她什么也没说，他继续说下去。 ‘你说我没有理由？我有最好的。我从心底里不喜欢你打算做的事。这是不光彩的；这是不雅的；这是不雅的。你的表弟对我来说什么都不是，我没有义务向他让步。我已经做出了最帅的。他在这儿的时候，你和他的关系让我如坐针毡。但我就这样过去了，因为我每周都盼着他走。我从来没有喜欢过他，他也从来没有喜欢过我。这就是你喜欢他的原因——因为他恨我。”奥斯蒙德说道，他的声音里有一种快得几乎听不见的颤抖。 “我对我的妻子应该做什么和不应该做什么有一个理想。她不应该独自穿越欧洲，无视我最深切的愿望，坐在其他男人的床边。你的表弟对你来说什么都不是；他对我们来说什么都不是。当我谈论我们时，您的微笑最为富有表现力，但我向您保证，我们，奥斯蒙德夫人，就是我所知道的一切。我认真对待我们的婚姻；你似乎找到了一种不这样做的方法。我不知道我们已经离婚或分居；对我来说，我们是牢不可破的团结。你比任何人类都离我更近，我也离你更近。 这可能是一种不愉快的接近；无论如何，这是我们故意制造的。我知道你不喜欢别人提醒你这一点；但我完全愿意，因为——因为——”他停顿了一会儿，看起来好像有什么话要说，而且很切中要害。 ‘因为我认为我们应该接受我们行为的后果，而我一生中最看重的就是事物的荣誉！’

He spoke gravely and almost gently; the accent of sarcasm had dropped out of his tone. It had a gravity which checked his wife’s quick emotion; the resolution with which she had entered the room found itself caught in a mesh of fine threads. His last words were not command, they constituted a kind of appeal; and, though she felt that any expression of respect on his part could only be a refinement of egotism, they represented something transcendent and absolute, like the sign of the cross or the flag of one’s country. He spoke in the name of something sacred and precious-the observance of a magnificent form. They were as perfectly apart in feeling as two disillusioned lovers had ever been; but they had never yet separated in act. Isabel had not changed; her old passion for justice still abode within her; and now, in the very thick of her sense of her husband’s blasphemous sophistry, it began to throb to a tune which for a moment promised him the victory. It came over her that in his wish to preserve appearances he was after all sincere, and that this, as far as it went, was a merit. Ten minutes before she had felt all the joy of irreflective action-a joy to which she had so long been a stranger; but action had been suddenly changed to slow renunciation, transformed by the blight of Osmond’s touch. If she must renounce, however, she would let him know she was a victim rather than a dupe. ‘I know you’re a master of the art of mockery,’ she said. ‘How can you speak of an indissoluble union-how can you speak of your being contented? Where’s our union when you accuse me of falsity? Where’s your contentment when you have nothing but hideous suspicion in your heart?’
他说话的语气严肃而近乎温和。他的语气中不再带有讽刺的意味。它有一种严肃性，抑制了他妻子的急躁情绪。她走进房间的决心发现自己陷入了细线的网中。他的遗言不是命令，而是一种呼吁；尽管她觉得他表达的任何尊重都只能是自我中心的表现，但它们代表着某种超然和绝对的东西，就像十字标志或一个国家的国旗一样。他以神圣而珍贵的名义说话——遵守一种宏伟的形式。他们的感情完全不同，就像两个幻灭的恋人一样。但他们从未真正分开过。伊莎贝尔没有改变；她没有改变。她内心仍然存有对正义的旧有热情；现在，她对丈夫亵渎神灵的诡辩的强烈感觉，开始跳动，一度预示着他会取得胜利。她突然意识到，他想要保持面子的愿望毕竟是真诚的，就其本身而言，这是一种优点。十分钟前，她已经感受到了不假思索的行动所带来的所有快乐——这种快乐她早已陌生了；但现在，她已经感受到了这种快乐。但行动突然变成了缓慢的放弃，被奥斯蒙德的触摸所影响。然而，如果她必须放弃，她会让他知道她是受害者而不是受骗者。 “我知道你是嘲讽艺术的大师，”她说。 ‘何谓不解之缘，何谓知足？当你指责我撒谎时，我们的工会在哪里？当你心里只有可怕的怀疑时，你的满足在哪里呢？

‘It is in our living decently together, in spite of such drawbacks.’
“尽管存在这些缺点，但我们仍能体面地生活在一起。”

‘We don’t live decently together!’ cried Isabel.
“我们住在一起并不体面！”伊莎贝尔喊道。

‘Indeed we don’t if you go to England.’
“事实上，如果你去英国，我们就不会。”

‘That’s very little; that’s nothing. I might do much more.’
‘那很少；没什么。我可能会做得更多。

He raised his eyebrows and even his shoulders a little: he had lived long enough in Italy to catch this trick. ‘Ah, if you’ve come to threaten me I prefer my drawing.’ And he walked back to his table, where he took up the sheet of paper on which he had been working and stood studying it. ‘I suppose that if I go you’ll not expect me to come back,’ said Isabel.
他扬起眉毛，甚至肩膀也微微扬起：他在意大利生活了足够长的时间，能够识破这一把戏。 “啊，如果你来威胁我，我更喜欢我的画。”然后他走回自己的桌子，拿起他一直在写的纸，站在那里研究它。 “我想如果我走了，你就不会指望我回来了，”伊莎贝尔说。

He turned quickly around, and she could see this movement at least was not designed. He looked at her a little, and then, ‘Are you out of your mind?’ he enquired.
他飞快地转过身来，她看得出这个动作至少不是故意的。他看了她一眼，然后问道：“你疯了吗？”

‘How can it be anything but a rupture?’ she went on; ‘especially if all you say is true?’ She was unable to see how it could be anything but a rupture; she sincerely wished to know what else it might be.
“这怎么可能不是破裂呢？”她继续说道。 “尤其是如果你说的都是真的的话？”她不明白这怎么可能不是破裂。她真诚地想知道还有什么可能。

He sat down before his table. ‘I really can’t argue with you on the hypothesis of your defying me,’ he said. And he took up one of his little brushes again.
他在桌前坐下。 “我真的无法与你争论你是否反抗我的假设，”他说。他又拿起了一把小刷子。

She lingered but a moment longer; long enough to embrace with her eye his whole deliberately indifferent yet most expressive figure; after which she quickly left the room. Her faculties, her energy, her passion, were all dispersed again; she felt as if a cold, dark mist had suddenly encompassed her. Osmond possessed in a supreme degree the art of eliciting any weakness. On her way back to her room she found the Countess Gemini standing in the open doorway of a little parlour in which a small collection of heterogeneous books had been arranged. The Countess had an open volume in her hand; she appeared to have been glancing down a page which failed to strike her as interesting. At the sound of Isabel’s step she raised her head.
她又逗留了片刻。足够长的时间，足以用她的眼睛拥抱他整个故意冷漠但最具表现力的身材；说完她就迅速离开了房间。她的才能、她的精力、她的激情，都再次消散了；她感觉自己仿佛突然被一股阴冷的黑雾包围了。奥斯蒙德拥有极高的引出弱点的艺术。在回房间的路上，她发现双子伯爵夫人站在一间小客厅敞开的门口，里面摆放着一小批不同种类的书籍。伯爵夫人手里拿着一本打开的书。她似乎正在浏览一页，但她并没有觉得有趣。听到伊莎贝尔的脚步声，她抬起头。

‘Ah my dear,’ she said, ‘you, who are so literary, do tell me some amusing book to read! Everything here’s of a dreariness-! Do you think this would do me any good?’
“啊，亲爱的，”她说，“你这么有文学天赋，请告诉我一些有趣的书来读吧！”这里的一切都是凄凉的——！你认为这对我有什么好处吗？

Isabel glanced at the title of the volume she held out, but without reading or understanding it. ‘I’m afraid I can’t advise you. I’ve had bad news. My cousin, Ralph Touchett, is dying.’
伊莎贝尔瞥了一眼她递过来的书名，但没有阅读或理解它。 ‘恐怕我无法给你建议。我有坏消息。我的表弟拉尔夫·图切特快要死了。”

The Countess threw down her book. ‘Ah, he was so simpatico. I’m awfully sorry for you.’
伯爵夫人扔下了她的书。 ‘啊，他真是太和蔼可亲了。我对你感到非常抱歉。

‘You would be sorrier still if you knew.’
“如果你知道的话，你会更难过。”

‘What is there to know? You look very badly,’ the Countess added.
‘有什么可知道的？你看起来很糟糕，”伯爵夫人补充道。

‘You must have been with Osmond.’
“你肯定和奥斯蒙德在一起。”

Half an hour before Isabel would have listened very coldly to an intimation that she should ever feel a desire for the sympathy of her sister-in-law, and there can be no better proof of her present embarrassment than the fact that she almost clutched at this lady’s fluttering attention. ‘I’ve been with Osmond,’ she said, while the Countess’s bright eyes glittered at her.
半小时前，伊莎贝尔会冷冷地听着别人的暗示，说她应该渴望得到嫂子的同情，而她几乎抓住了她的手，这一事实就证明了她目前的尴尬。这位女士的注意力不集中。 “我一直和奥斯蒙德在一起，”她说，而伯爵夫人明亮的眼睛闪闪发光地看着她。

‘I’m sure then he has been odious!’ the Countess cried. ‘Did he say he was glad poor Mr. Touchett’s dying?’
“我敢肯定他是可憎的！”伯爵夫人喊道。 “他有没有说过他很高兴可怜的图切特先生的死？”

‘He said it’s impossible I should go to England.’
“他说我不可能去英国。”

The Countess’s mind, when her interests were concerned, was agile; she already foresaw the extinction of any further brightness in her visit to Rome. Ralph Touchett would die, Isabel would go into mourning, and then there would be no more dinner-parties. Such a prospect produced for a moment in her countenance an expressive grimace; but this rapid, picturesque play of feature was her only tribute to disappointment. After all, she reflected, the game was almost played out; she had already overstayed her invitation. And then she cared enough for Isabel’s trouble to forget her own, and she saw that Isabel’s trouble was deep. It seemed deeper than the mere death of a cousin, and the Countess had no hesitation in connecting her exasperating brother with the expression of her sister-in-law’s eyes. Her heart beat with an almost joyous expectation, for if she had wished to see Osmond overtopped the conditions looked favourable now. Of course if Isabel should go to England she herself would immediately leave Palazzo Roccanera; nothing would induce her to remain there with Osmond. Nevertheless she felt an immense desire to hear that Isabel would go to England.
当伯爵夫人关心自己的利益时，她的头脑很敏捷。她已经预见到，在她的罗马之行中，任何进一步的光明都会消失。拉尔夫·图切特会去世，伊莎贝尔会陷入哀悼，然后就不会再有晚宴了。这样的前景使她的脸上出现了片刻的表情。但这种快速、如画的表演是她对失望的唯一致敬。毕竟，她想，比赛已经快结束了；她已经超过了邀请的期限。然后她太关心伊莎贝尔的麻烦而忘记了自己的麻烦，她发现伊莎贝尔的麻烦很深。这似乎比表弟的死更严重，伯爵夫人毫不犹豫地把她恼怒的哥哥和她嫂子的眼神联系起来。她的心带着一种近乎喜悦的期待而跳动，因为如果她希望看到奥斯蒙德超越，现在的条件看起来很有利。当然，如果伊莎贝尔去英国，她本人会立即离开罗卡内拉宫；没有什么能促使她和奥斯蒙德一起留在那里。尽管如此，她还是非常渴望听到伊莎贝尔要去英国。

‘Nothing’s impossible for you, my dear,’ she said caressingly. ‘Why else are you rich and clever and good?’
“对你来说，没有什么是不可能的，亲爱的，”她爱抚地说。 “不然你为什么又富有又聪明又善良呢？”

‘Why indeed? I feel stupidly weak.’
‘为什么呢？我感到自己愚蠢地虚弱。

‘Why does Osmond say it’s impossible?’ the Countess asked in a tone which sufficiently declared that she couldn’t imagine.
“为什么奥斯蒙德说这是不可能的？”伯爵夫人用一种足以表明她无法想象的语气问道。

From the moment she thus began to question her, however, Isabel drew back; she disengaged her hand, which the Countess had affectionately taken. But she answered this enquiry with frank bitterness. ‘Because we’re so happy together that we can’t separate even for a fortnight.’
然而，从她开始质问她的那一刻起，伊莎贝尔就退缩了。她松开了伯爵夫人亲切地握着的手。但她以坦率的痛苦回答了这个询问。 “因为我们在一起太开心了，甚至两周都无法分开。”

‘Ah,’ cried the Countess while Isabel turned away, ‘when I want to make a journey my husband simply tells me I can have no money!’
“啊，”当伊莎贝尔转过身去时，伯爵夫人喊道，“当我想去旅行时，我丈夫只是告诉我，我可以没有钱！”

Isabel went to her room, where she walked up and down for an hour. It may appear to some readers that she gave herself much trouble, and it is certain that for a woman of a high spirit she had allowed herself easily to be arrested. It seemed to her that only now she fully measured the great undertaking of matrimony. Marriage meant that in such a case as this, when one had to choose, one chose as a matter of course for one’s husband. ‘I’m afraid-yes, I’m afraid,’ she said to herself more than once, stopping short in her walk. But what she was afraid of was not her husband-his displeasure, his hatred, his revenge; it was not even her own later judgement of her conduct-a consideration which had often held her in check; it was simply the violence there would be in going when Osmond wished her to remain. A gulf of difference had opened between them, but nevertheless it was his desire that she should stay, it was a horror to him that she should go. She knew the nervous fineness with which he could feel an objection. What he thought of her she knew, what he was capable of saying to her she had felt; yet they were married, for all that, and marriage meant that a woman should cleave to the man with whom, uttering tremendous vows, she had stood at the altar. She sank down on her sofa at last and buried her head in a pile of cushions.
伊莎贝尔回到自己的房间，在那里来回踱步了一个小时。在一些读者看来，她给自己惹了很多麻烦，但可以肯定的是，作为一个精神高尚的女人，她很容易就让自己被捕了。在她看来，直到现在她才完全衡量了婚姻的伟大事业。婚姻就意味着在这种情况下，当一个人必须选择的时候，就理所当然地选择自己的丈夫。 “我害怕——是的，我害怕，”她不止一次地对自己说，同时突然停下脚步。但她害怕的不是她的丈夫——他的不悦，他的仇恨，他的报复；这甚至不是她后来对自己行为的判断——这种考虑常常使她受到限制；这只是当奥斯蒙德希望她留下来时离开会带来的暴力。他们之间已经出现了鸿沟，但尽管如此，他还是希望她留下来，但她的离开却让他感到恐惧。她知道他会感到反对时的神经质。他对她的看法她知道，他能对她说的话她也感受到了；然而，尽管如此，他们还是结婚了，而婚姻意味着女人应该忠于那个与她一起站在祭坛上许下巨大誓言的男人。她终于在沙发上坐下，把头埋在一堆垫子里。

When she raised her head again the Countess Gemini hovered before her. She had come in all unperceived; she had a strange smile on her thin lips and her whole face had grown in an hour a shining intimation. She lived assuredly, it might be said, at the window of her spirit, but now she was leaning far out. ‘I knocked,’ she began, ‘but you didn’t answer me. So I ventured in. I’ve been looking at you for the last five minutes. You’re very unhappy.’
当她再次抬起头时，双子伯爵夫人就悬浮在她的面前。她是在无人察觉的情况下进来的。她薄薄的嘴唇上挂着奇怪的微笑，一小时内她的整张脸都变得闪闪发光。可以说，她确实生活在精神之窗前，但现在她已经远远地向外倾斜了。 “我敲了门，”她开始说道，“但你没有回应我。”所以我冒险进去了。过去五分钟我一直在看着你。你很不高兴。

‘Yes; but I don’t think you can comfort me.’
'是的;但我认为你不能安慰我。”

‘Will you give me leave to try?’ And the Countess sat down on the sofa beside her. She continued to smile, and there was something communicative and exultant in her expression. She appeared to have a deal to say, and it occurred to Isabel for the first time that her sister-in-law might say something really human. She made play with her glittering eyes, in which there was an unpleasant fascination. ‘After all,’ she soon resumed, ‘I must tell you, to begin with, that I don’t understand your state of mind. You seem to have so many scruples, so many reasons, so many ties. When I discovered, ten years ago, that my husband’s dearest wish was to make me miserable of late he has simply let me alone-ah, it was a wonderful simplification! My poor Isabel, you’re not simple enough.’
“你能让我尝试一下吗？”伯爵夫人在她旁边的沙发上坐下。她继续微笑，表情中流露出一种善于交际和欣喜若狂的感觉。她似乎有话要说，伊莎贝尔第一次想到她的嫂子可能会说一些真正人性的话。她玩弄着那双闪闪发光的眼睛，其中有一种令人不快的迷恋。 “毕竟，”她很快又说道，“我必须首先告诉你，我不明白你的心态。你似乎有那么多的顾忌，那么多的理由，那么多的牵绊。十年前，当我发现我丈夫最大的愿望就是让我最近痛苦不堪时，他只是让我一个人呆着——啊，这是一个美妙的简化！我可怜的伊莎贝尔，你不够简单。

‘No, I’m not simple enough,’ said Isabel.
“不，我不够简单，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘There’s something I want you to know,’ the Countess declared-”because I think you ought to know it. Perhaps you do; perhaps you’ve guessed it. But if you have, all I can say is that I understand still less why you shouldn’t do as you like.’
“有件事我想让你知道，”伯爵夫人宣称——“因为我认为你应该知道。也许你会这样做；也许你已经猜到了。但如果你有的话，我只能说，我更不明白为什么你不应该随心所欲。

‘What do you wish me to know?’ Isabel felt a foreboding that made her heart beat faster. The Countess was about to justify herself, and this alone was portentous.
“你想让我知道什么？”伊莎贝尔有一种不祥的预感，心跳加速。伯爵夫人正要为自己辩解，仅此一点就已经是不祥之兆了。

But she was nevertheless disposed to play a little with her subject. ‘In your place I should have guessed it ages ago. Have you never really suspected?’
但她还是愿意对她的主题进行一些玩弄。 “如果是你，我早就该猜到了。”你从来没有真正怀疑过吗？

‘I’ve guessed nothing. What should I have suspected? I don’t know what you mean.
‘我什么都没猜到。我应该怀疑什么？我不知道你的意思。

‘That’s because you’ve such a beastly pure mind. I never saw a woman with such a pure mind!’ cried the Countess.
‘那是因为你有如此禽兽般的清净心。我从来没有见过一个女人有如此纯洁的心灵！”伯爵夫人喊道。

Isabel slowly got up. ‘You’re going to tell me something horrible.’
伊莎贝尔慢慢地站了起来。 “你会告诉我一些可怕的事情。”

‘You can call it by whatever name you will!’ And the Countess rose also, while her gathered perversity grew vivid and dreadful. She stood a moment in a sort of glare of intention and, as seemed to Isabel even then, of ugliness; after which she said: ‘My first sister-in-law had no children.’
“你可以用任何名字来称呼它！”伯爵夫人也站了起来，她的乖僻变得生动而可怕。她站了一会儿，目光中充满了意图，但伊莎贝尔当时就觉得她很丑陋。之后她说：“我的大嫂没有孩子。”

Isabel stared back at her; the announcement was an anticlimax. ‘Your first sister-in-law?’
伊莎贝尔回望着她。这一宣布令人扫兴。 “你的大嫂？”

‘I suppose you know at least, if one may mention it, that Osmond has been married before! I’ve never spoken to you of his wife; I thought it mightn’t be decent or respectful. But others, less particular, must have done so. The poor little woman lived hardly three years and died childless. It wasn’t till after her death that Pansy arrived.’
“我想你至少知道，如果有人可以提到的话，奥斯蒙德以前结过婚！我从来没有和你谈过他的妻子；我认为这可能不体面或不尊重。但其他不那么特别的人一定也这样做了。这个可怜的小女人只活了三年，就死了，没有留下孩子。直到她死后，潘西才到来。

Isabel’s brow had contracted to a frown; her lips were parted in pale, vague wonder. She was trying to follow; there seemed so much more to follow than she could see. ‘Pansy’s not my husband’s child then?’
伊莎贝尔的眉头皱了起来。她的嘴唇张开，露出苍白、模糊的惊奇。她试图跟随；但似乎还有很多事情等着她去做，但她却看不到。 “那么潘西就不是我丈夫的孩子了？”

‘Your husband’s-in perfection! But no one else’s husband’s. Some one else’s wife’s. Ah, my good Isabel,’ cried the Countess, ‘with you one must dot one’s i’s!’
‘你的丈夫太完美了！但不是别人的丈夫。别人的妻子。啊，我的好伊莎贝尔，”伯爵夫人喊道，“和你在一起，一定要点我的！”

‘I don’t understand. Whose wife’s?’ Isabel asked.
'我不明白。谁的妻子的？”伊莎贝尔问道。

‘The wife of a horrid little Swiss who died-how long?-a dozen, more than fifteen, years ago. He never recognized Miss Pansy, nor, knowing what he was about, would have anything to say to her; and there was no reason why he should. Osmond did, and that was better; though he had to fit on afterwards the whole rigmarole of his own wife’s having died in childbirth, and of his having, in grief and horror, banished the little girl from his sight for as long as possible before taking her home from nurse. His wife had really died, you know, of quite another matter and in quite another place: in the Piedmontese mountains, where they had gone, one August, because her health appeared to require the air, but where she was suddenly taken worse-fatally ill. The story passed, sufficiently; it was covered by the appearances so long as nobody heeded, as nobody cared to look into it. But of course I knew-without researches,’ the Countess lucidly proceeded; ‘as also, you’ll understand, without a word said between us-I mean between Osmond and me. Don’t you see him looking at me, in silence, that way, to settle it?-that is to settle me if I should say anything. I said nothing, right or left-never a word to a creature, if you can believe that of me: on my honour, my dear, I speak of the thing to you now, after all this time, as I’ve never, never spoken. It was to be enough for me, from the first, that the child was my niece-from the moment she was my brother’s daughter. As for her veritable mother-!’ But with this Pansy’s wonderful aunt dropped involuntarily, from the impression of her sister-in-law’s face, out of which more eyes might have seemed to look at her than she had ever had to meet.
“一个可怕的小瑞士人的妻子死了——多久了？——十几年前，超过十五年前。他从来没有认出潘西小姐，也知道他在做什么，也不会跟她说什么。他没有理由这样做。奥斯蒙德做到了，而且效果更好。尽管事后他不得不接受他自己的妻子死于难产的全部胡言乱语，以及他在悲伤和恐惧中将这个小女孩从他的视线中尽可能长时间地驱逐出去，然后才将她从保姆身边带回家。他的妻子确实死了，你知道，死于完全不同的事情，死在完全不同的地方：一年八月，他们去了皮埃蒙特山区，因为她的健康似乎需要空气，但她突然被带到了那里，情况更糟，致命了。患病的。故事已经足够了。只要没有人注意，没有人愿意去探究它，它就被表象所掩盖。但我当然知道——无需研究，”伯爵夫人清晰地继续说道。 “同样，你也会明白，我们之间一言不发——我指的是奥斯蒙德和我之间。你没看到他默默地看着我，那样是为了解决问题吗？——如果我要说什么的话，那就是为了解决我的问题。我什么也没说，无论是左还是右——从来没有对一个生物说过一句话，如果你能相信我的话：以我的名誉，亲爱的，我现在对你说起这件事，经过这么长时间，我从来没有，从未说过。从一开始，这个孩子就是我的侄女，这对我来说就足够了——从她是我哥哥的女儿的那一刻起。至于她名副其实的母亲——！”但是说到这里，潘西那出色的姨妈不由自主地从她嫂子脸上的印象中消失了，从这张脸上，似乎有更多的眼睛在看着她，比她以前见过的更多。

She had spoken no name, yet Isabel could but check, on her own lips, an echo of the unspoken. She sank to her seat again, hanging her head.
她没有说出名字，但伊莎贝尔只能检查自己的嘴唇是否有未说出的回音。她再次坐回座位，低着头。

‘Why have you told me this?’ she asked in a voice the Countess hardly recognized.
“你为什么告诉我这些？”她用伯爵夫人几乎认不出的声音问道。

‘Because I’ve been so bored with your not knowing. I’ve been bored, frankly, my dear, with not having told you; as if, stupidly, all this time I couldn’t have managed! Ca me depasse, if you don’t mind my saying so, the things, all round you, that you’ve appeared to succeed in not knowing. It’s a sort of assistance-aid to innocent ignorance-that I’ve always been a bad hand at rendering; and in this connexion, that of keeping quiet for my brother, my virtue has at any rate finally found itself exhausted. It’s not a black lie, moreover, you know,’ the Countess inimitably added. ‘The facts are exactly what I tell you.’
“因为我对你的无知感到厌倦。亲爱的，坦率地说，我因为没有告诉你而感到无聊。就好像，愚蠢的是，我一直无法做到这一点！好吧，如果你不介意我这么说的话，你周围的一切，你似乎成功地不知道。这是一种帮助——对无辜者的无知的帮助——我一直不擅长渲染；这是一种帮助。在这方面，为了我的兄弟保持安静，我的德行无论如何终于发现自己耗尽了。而且，你知道，这不是恶意谎言。”伯爵夫人独特地补充道。 “事实就是我告诉你的。”

‘I had no idea,’ said Isabel presently; and looked up at her in a manner that doubtless matched the apparent witlessness of this confession.
“我不知道，”伊莎贝尔立刻说道。抬头看着她，眼神无疑与她坦白时明显的愚蠢相匹配。

‘So I believed-though it was hard to believe. Had it never occurred to you that he was for six or seven years her lover?’
“所以我相信了——尽管很难相信。你难道没想过他是她六七年的情人吗？

‘I don’t know. Things have occurred to me, and perhaps that was what they all meant.’
'我不知道。我发生过一些事情，也许这就是它们的意思。

‘She has been wonderfully clever, she has been magnificent, about Pansy!’ the Countess, before all this view of it, cried.
“关于潘西，她非常聪明，她非常出色！”伯爵夫人在看到这一切之前喊道。

‘Oh, no idea, for me,’ Isabel went on, ‘ever definitely took that form.’ She appeared to be making out to herself what had been and what hadn’t. ‘And as it is-I don’t understand.’
“哦，不知道，对我来说，”伊莎贝尔继续说道，“肯定曾经采取过那种形式。”她似乎正在自己弄清楚什么是曾经的，什么不是。 “事实上——我不明白。”

She spoke as one troubled and puzzled, yet the poor Countess seemed to have seen her revelation fall below its possibilities of effect. She had expected to kindle some responsive blaze, but had barely extracted a spark.
她说话的语气里充满了困扰和困惑，但可怜的伯爵夫人似乎已经看到她的启示没有达到其效果的可能性。她原以为会点燃一些反应性的火焰，但几乎没有点燃火花。

Isabel showed as scarce more impressed than she might have been, as a young woman of approved imagination, with some fine sinister passage of public history. ‘Don’t you recognize how the child could never pass for her husband’s?-that is with M. Merle himself,’ her companion resumed. ‘They had been separated too long for that, and he had gone to some far country-I think to South America. If she had ever had children-which I’m not sure of-she had lost them. The conditions happened to make it workable, under stress (I mean at so awkward a pinch), that Osmond should acknowledge the little girl. His wife was dead-very true; but she had not been dead too long to put a certain accommodation of dates out of the question-from the moment, I mean, that suspicion wasn’t started; which was what they had to take care of. What was more natural than that poor Mrs. Osmond, at a distance and for a world not troubling about trifles, should have left behind her, poverina, the pledge of her brief happiness that had cost her life? With the aid of a change of residence-Osmond had been living with her at Naples at the time of their stay in the Alps, and he in due course left it for ever-the whole history was successfully set going. My poor sister-in-law, in her grave, couldn’t help herself, and the real mother, to save her skin, renounced all visible property in the child.’
伊莎贝尔作为一位想象力丰富的年轻女性，对公共历史中一些精彩险恶的段落表现出了她应有的印象。 “你难道没有意识到这个孩子怎么可能永远不会被认为是她丈夫的吗？——那是梅尔先生本人的，”她的同伴继续说道。 “他们分开太久了，他去了某个遥远的国家——我想是南美。”如果她曾经有过孩子的话——我不确定——但她已经失去了他们。条件恰好使它可行，在压力下（我的意思是在如此尴尬的紧要关头），奥斯蒙德应该承认这个小女孩。他的妻子死了——千真万确；但她死后不久，就排除了某种约会的可能性——我的意思是，从那一刻起，怀疑就没有开始了；这是他们必须照顾的。可怜的奥斯蒙德夫人，在远方，在一个不为琐事而烦恼的世界里，留下她，poverina，她付出生命代价的短暂幸福的承诺，还有什么比这更自然的呢？在搬迁的帮助下——奥斯蒙德在阿尔卑斯山逗留期间一直和她在那不勒斯住在一起，他在适当的时候永远离开了——整个历史成功地开始了。我可怜的嫂子，在她的坟墓里，无法自拔，而真正的母亲，为了保全自己的性命，放弃了孩子的所有可见财产。

‘Ah, poor, poor woman!’ cried Isabel, who herewith burst into tears. It was a long time since she had shed any; she had suffered a high reaction from weeping. But now they flowed with an abundance in which the Countess Gemini found only another discomfiture.
“啊，可怜的女人！”伊莎贝尔哭了起来。她已经很久没有脱毛了。她因哭泣而产生了强烈的反应。但现在它们的数量如此之多，双子伯爵夫人却又感到了另一种不安。

‘It’s very kind of you to pity her!’ she discordantly laughed. ‘Yes indeed, you have a way of your own-!’
“你可怜她真是太好了！”她不和谐地笑道。 “是的，确实，你有你自己的办法——！”

‘He must have been false to his wife-and so very soon!’ said Isabel with a sudden check.
“他肯定对他的妻子撒谎了——而且是这么快！”伊莎贝尔突然愣住了。

‘That’s all that’s wanting-that you should take up her cause!’ the Countess went on. ‘I quite agree with you, however, that it was much too soon.’ ‘But to me, to me-?’ And Isabel hesitated as if she had not heard; as if her question-though it was sufficiently there in her eyes-were all for herself.
“这就是我们所需要的——你应该支持她的事业！”伯爵夫人继续说道。 “不过，我完全同意你的看法，现在还太早了。” “但是对我来说，对我——？” 伊莎贝尔犹豫了一下，好像她没有听到似的。就好像她的问题——尽管她的眼睛里已经足够了——都是针对她自己的。

‘To you he has been faithful? Well, it depends, my dear, on what you call faithful. When he married you he was no longer the lover of another woman-such a lover as he had been, cara mia, between their risks and their precautions, while the thing lasted! That state of affairs had passed away; the lady had repented, or at all events, for reasons of her own, drawn back: she had always had, too, a worship of appearances so intense that even Osmond himself had got bored with it. You may therefore imagine what it was-when he couldn’t patch it on conveniently to any of those he goes in for! But the whole past was between them.’
‘他对你忠诚吗？好吧，亲爱的，这取决于你所说的忠诚。当他娶了你之后，他就不再是另一个女人的情人了——卡拉米亚，他曾经是一个情人，在他们的风险和预防措施之间，而事情持续了！那种状况已经过去了。这位女士已经悔改了，或者无论如何，出于她自己的原因，她退缩了：她也一直对外表有如此强烈的崇拜，甚​​至奥斯蒙德本人也对此感到厌倦。因此，你可以想象那是什么——当他无法方便地将其修补到他所追求的任何一个时！但整个过去都是他们之间的事。”

‘Yes,’ Isabel mechanically echoed, ‘the whole past is between them.’
“是的，”伊莎贝尔机械地重复道，“整个过去都在他们之间。”

‘Ah, this later past is nothing. But for six or seven years, as I say, they had kept it up.’
‘啊，后来的过去算不了什么。但正如我所说，他们已经坚持了六七年了。”

She was silent a little. ‘Why then did she want him to marry me?’
她沉默了一会儿。 “那她为什么要他嫁给我呢？”

‘Ah my dear, that’s her superiority! Because you had money; and because she believed you would be good to Pansy.’
‘啊亲爱的，这就是她的优势！因为你有钱；因为她相信你会对潘西好。

‘Poor woman-and Pansy who doesn’t like her!’ cried Isabel.
“可怜的女人——还有不喜欢她的潘西！”伊莎贝尔喊道。

‘That’s the reason she wanted some one whom Pansy would like. She knows it; she knows everything.’
“这就是她想要一个潘西喜欢的人的原因。她知道；她知道。她什么都知道。

‘Will she know that you’ve told me this?’
“她会知道你告诉我这件事吗？”

‘That will depend upon whether you tell her. She’s prepared for it, and do you know what she counts upon for her defence? On your believing that I lie. Perhaps you do; don’t make yourself uncomfortable to hide it. Only, as it happens this time, I don’t. I’ve told plenty of little idiotic fibs, but they’ve never hurt any one but myself.’
“这取决于你是否告诉她。她已经做好了准备，你知道她靠什么来辩护吗？你相信我撒谎。也许你会这样做；不要因为隐藏它而让自己感到不舒服。只是，这次我没有。我说过很多愚蠢的小谎，但除了我自己之外，它们从未伤害过任何人。

Isabel sat staring at her companion’s story as at a bale of fantastic wares some strolling gypsy might have unpacked on the carpet at her feet. ‘Why did Osmond never marry her?’ she finally asked.
伊莎贝尔坐在那儿，盯着她同伴的故事，就像盯着一些散步的吉普赛人可能在她脚边的地毯上打开的一堆奇妙的商品一样。 “为什么奥斯蒙德从未娶她？”她最后问道。

‘Because she had no money.’ The Countess had an answer for everything, and if she lied she lied well. ‘No one knows, no one has ever known, what she lives on, or how she has got all those beautiful things. I don’t believe Osmond himself knows. Besides, she wouldn’t have married him.’
“因为她没有钱。”伯爵夫人对一切都有答案，如果她撒谎，她也撒得很好。 “没有人知道，没有人知道她靠什么生活，或者她是如何拥有所有这些美丽的东西。我不相信奥斯蒙德本人知道。此外，她也不会嫁给他。

‘How can she have loved him then?’
“那她怎么可能爱他呢？”

‘She doesn’t love him in that way. She did at first, and then, I suppose, she would have married him; but at that time her husband was living. By the time M. Merle had rejoined-I won’t say his ancestors, because he never had any-her relations with Osmond had changed, and she had grown more ambitious. Besides, she has never had, about him,’ the Countess went on, leaving Isabel to wince for it so tragically afterwards-she had never had, what you might call any illusions of intelligence. She hoped she might marry a great man; that has always been her idea. She has waited and watched and plotted and prayed; but she has never succeeded. I don’t call Madame Merle a success, you know. I don’t know what she may accomplish yet, but at present she has very little to show. The only tangible result she has ever achieved-except, of course, getting to know every one and staying with them free of expense-has been her bringing you and Osmond together. Oh, she did that, my dear; you needn’t look as if you doubted it. I’ve watched them for years; I know everything-everything. I’m thought a great scatterbrain, but I’ve had enough application of mind to follow up those two. She hates me, and her way of showing it is to pretend to be for ever defending me. When people say I’ve had fifteen lovers she looks horrified and declares that quite half of them were never proved. She has been afraid of me for years, and she has taken great comfort in the vile, false things people have said about me. She has been afraid I’d expose her, and she threatened me one day when Osmond began to pay his court to you. It was at his house in Florence; do you remember that afternoon when she brought you there and we had tea in the garden? She let me know then that if I should tell tales two could play at that game. She pretends there’s a good deal more to tell about me than about her. It would be an interesting comparison! I don’t care a fig about what she may say, simply because I know you don’t care a fig. You can’t trouble your head about me less than you do already. So she may take her revenge as she chooses; I don’t think she’ll frighten you very much. Her great idea has been to be tremendously irreproachable-a kind of full-blown lily-the incarnation of propriety. She has always worshipped that god. There should be no scandal about Caesar’s wife, you know; and, as I say, she has always hoped to marry Caesar. That was one reason she wouldn’t marry Osmond; the fear that on seeing her with Pansy people would put things together-would even see a resemblance. She has had a terror lest the mother should betray herself. She has been awfully careful; the mother has never done so.’
‘她并不那样爱他。她一开始是这么做的，然后，我想，她就会嫁给他了。但当时她的丈夫还活着。当梅尔先生重新加入时——我不会说他的祖先，因为他从未有过任何祖先——她与奥斯蒙德的关系发生了变化，她变得更加雄心勃勃。况且，她从来没有对他抱有过，”伯爵夫人继续说道，留下伊莎贝尔事后悲惨地皱起眉头——她从来没有抱有过，你可以称之为智力的幻觉。她希望自己能嫁给一个伟大的男人；这一直是她的想法。她等待、观察、策划、祈祷；但她从未成功。你知道，我不认为梅尔夫人是成功的。我不知道她会取得什么成就，但目前她几乎没有什么可展示的。她所取得的唯一切实的成果——当然，除了认识每个人并免费与他们住在一起——就是她把你和奥斯蒙德带到了一起。噢，她做到了，亲爱的；你不必表现得好像你对此表示怀疑。我已经观察它们很多年了；我知道一切——一切。人们认为我是一个很散漫的人，但我已经有足够的头脑来跟进这两件事。她恨我，而她表现出这一点的方式就是假装永远保护我。当人们说我有过十五个情人时，她看起来很震惊，并声称其中相当一半的情人从未得到证实。她多年来一直害怕我，而人们对我的恶言恶语让她得到了很大的安慰。她一直担心我会揭发她，有一天，当奥斯蒙德开始向你求情时，她威胁了我。那是在他位于佛罗伦萨的家里。你还记得那天下午她带你去那里，我们在花园里喝茶吗？然后她告诉我，如果我应该讲故事，那么两个人就可以参加那场比赛。 她假装关于我的事情比关于她的事情要多得多。这将是一个有趣的比较！我一点也不在乎她会说什么，只是因为我知道你一点也不在乎。你已经不能再为我操心了。所以她可以随心所欲地进行报复；我不认为她会吓到你。她的伟大想法是成为无可指责的人——一种盛开的百合花——礼节的化身。她一直崇拜那个神。你知道，凯撒的妻子不应该有任何丑闻；正如我所说，她一直希望嫁给凯撒。这是她不嫁给奥斯蒙德的原因之一。人们担心看到她和潘西在一起，人们会把事情放在一起——甚至会看到相似之处。她害怕母亲背叛自己。她一直非常小心。母亲从来没有这样做过。’

‘Yes, yes, the mother has done so,’ said Isabel, who had listened to all this with a face more and more wan. ‘She betrayed herself to me the other day, though I didn’t recognize her. There appeared to have been a chance of Pansy’s making a great marriage, and in her disappointment at its not coming off she almost dropped the mask.’
“是的，是的，母亲这么做了，”伊莎贝尔说，她听了这一切，脸色越来越苍白。 “那天她向我出卖了自己，尽管我不认识她。潘西似乎有机会缔造一段美好的婚姻，但她对婚姻未能成功感到失望，几乎丢掉了面具。

‘Ah, that’s where she’d dish herself!’ cried the Countess. ‘She has failed so dreadfully that she’s determined her daughter shall make it up.’
“啊，她就是在那里上菜的！”伯爵夫人叫道。 “她的失败是如此可怕，以至于她决心让女儿弥补这一点。”

Isabel started at the words ‘her daughter,’ which her guest threw off so familiarly. ‘It seems very wonderful,’ she murmured; and in this bewildering impression she had almost lost her sense of being personally touched by the story.
伊莎贝尔一听到“她的女儿”这个词就惊呆了，她的客人如此熟悉地拒绝了这个词。 “这看起来非常美妙，”她低声说道。在这种令人困惑的印象中，她几乎失去了对这个故事的个人感动的感觉。

‘Now don’t go and turn against the poor innocent child!’ the Countess went on. ‘She’s very nice, in spite of her deplorable origin. I myself have liked Pansy; not, naturally, because she was hers, but because she had become yours.’
“现在不要去反对这个可怜的无辜的孩子！”伯爵夫人继续说道。 “她非常友善，尽管她出身悲惨。我自己也很喜欢Pansy；当然，不是因为她是她的，而是因为她已经成为你的了。

‘Yes, she has become mine. And how the poor woman must have suffered at seeing me-!’ Isabel exclaimed while she flushed at the thought.
‘是的，她已经成为我的了。这个可怜的女人看到我一定很痛苦——！”伊莎贝尔一想到这一点，脸就红了，大声喊道。

‘I don’t believe she has suffered; on the contrary, she has enjoyed. Osmond’s marriage has given his daughter a great little lift. Before that she lived in a hole. And do you know what the mother thought? That you might take such a fancy to the child that you’d do something for her. Osmond of course could never give her a portion. Osmond was really extremely poor; but of course you know all about that. Ah, my dear,’ cried the Countess, ‘why did you ever inherit money?’ She stopped a moment as if she saw something singular in Isabel’s face. ‘Don’t tell me now that you’ll give her a dot. You’re capable of that, but I would refuse to believe it. Don’t try to be too good. Be a little easy and natural and nasty; feel a little wicked, for the comfort of it, once in your life!’
“我不相信她受苦了；”相反，她很享受。奥斯蒙德的婚姻给他的女儿带来了很大的提升。在此之前，她住在一个洞里。你知道妈妈是怎么想的吗？你可能会非常喜欢这个孩子，以至于你会为她做点什么。奥斯蒙德当然不可能给她一份。奥斯蒙德确实非常穷。但你当然知道这一切。啊，亲爱的，”伯爵夫人喊道，“你为什么要继承财产？”她停了下来，仿佛在伊莎贝尔的脸上看到了一些奇怪的东西。 ‘现在别告诉我你会给她一个点。你有能力做到这一点，但我拒绝相信。不要试图变得太好。表现得轻松一点、自然一点、讨厌一点；感觉有点邪恶，为了安慰，一生中就一次！”

‘It’s very strange. I suppose I ought to know, but I’m sorry,’ Isabel said. ‘I’m much obliged to you.’
‘这很奇怪。我想我应该知道，但我很抱歉，”伊莎贝尔说。 “我非常感谢你。”

‘Yes, you seem to be!’ cried the Countess with a mocking laugh. ‘Perhaps you are-perhaps you’re not. You don’t take it as I should have thought.’
“是的，看来你是这样！”伯爵夫人嘲笑道。 ‘也许你是——也许你不是。你不应该像我所想的那样认为它。

‘How should I take it?’ Isabel asked.
“我该怎么接受呢？”伊莎贝尔问道。

‘Well, I should say as a woman who has been made use of’ Isabel made no answer to this; she only listened, and the Countess went on. ‘They’ve always been bound to each other; they remained so even after she broke off-or he did. But he has always been more for her than she has been for him. When their little carnival was over they made a bargain that each should give the other complete liberty, but that each should also do everything possible to help the other on. You may ask me how I know such a thing as that. I know it by the way they’ve behaved. Now see how much better women are than men! She has found a wife for Osmond, but Osmond has never lifted a little finger for her. She has worked for him, plotted for him, suffered for him; she has even more than once found money for him; and the end of it is that he’s tired of her. She’s an old habit; there are moments when he needs her, but on the whole he wouldn’t miss her if she were removed. And, what’s more, to-day she knows it. So you needn’t be jealous!’ the Countess added humorously.
“好吧，我应该说，作为一个被利用的女人，”伊莎贝尔没有回答这个问题。她只是听着，伯爵夫人继续说道。 “他们一直彼此相连；即使在她中断之后，他们仍然如此——或者他中断了。但他对她的关心始终多于她对他的关心。当他们的小狂欢结束时，他们做了一个交易，双方都应该给予对方完全的自由，但每个人也应该尽一切可能帮助对方。你可能会问我怎么知道这样的事情。我从他们的行为方式就知道了。现在看看女人比男人好多少！她为奥斯蒙德找到了妻子，但奥斯蒙德却从未为她举过小指。她为他工作，为他谋划，为他受苦；她甚至不止一次为他找到过钱。结果就是他厌倦了她。她是一个老习惯；有时他会需要她，但总的来说，如果她离开了，他也不会想念她。而且，更重要的是，今天她知道了。所以你不用嫉妒！”伯爵夫人幽默地补充道。

Isabel rose from her sofa again; she felt bruised and scant of breath; her head was humming with new knowledge. ‘I’m much obliged to you,’ she repeated. And then she added abruptly, in quite a different tone: ‘How do you know all this?’
伊莎贝尔再次从沙发上站起来。她感到浑身青肿，呼吸困难；她的脑子里充满了新知识。 “我非常感谢你，”她重复道。然后她突然用一种完全不同的语气补充道：“你是怎么知道这一切的？”

This enquiry appeared to ruffle the Countess more than Isabel’s expression of gratitude pleased her. She gave her companion a bold stare, with which, ‘Let us assume that I’ve invented it!’ she cried. She too, however, suddenly changed her tone and, laying her hand on Isabel’s arm, said with the penetration of her sharp bright smile: ‘Now will you give up your journey?’
这个询问似乎让伯爵夫人感到恼怒，而伊莎贝尔表达的感激之情却让她感到高兴。她大胆地瞪了她的同伴一眼，说道：“让我们假设这是我发明的吧！”她喊道。然而她也突然改变了语气，把手放在伊莎贝尔的手臂上，带着尖锐而明亮的微笑说道：“现在你要放弃你的旅程了吗？”

Isabel started a little; she turned away. But she felt weak and in a moment had to lay her arm upon the mantel-shelf for support. She stood a minute so, and then upon her arm she dropped her dizzy head, with closed eyes and pale lips.
伊莎贝尔稍微吃了一惊。她转身走开。但她感到虚弱，立刻不得不将手臂放在壁炉架上寻求支撑。她站了一会儿，然后把头晕的头靠在手臂上，闭着眼睛，嘴唇苍白。

‘I’ve done wrong to speak-I’ve made you ill!’ the Countess cried.
“我说错话了——我让你生病了！”伯爵夫人喊道。

‘Ah, I must see Ralph!’ Isabel wailed; not in resentment, not in the quick passion her companion had looked for; but in a tone of far-reaching, infinite sadness.
“啊，我一定要见拉尔夫！”伊莎贝尔哭喊道。不是因为怨恨，也不是因为她的同伴所寻求的那种快速的激情；但却带着深远、无限悲伤的语气。

Chapter 52
第52章

There was a train for Turin and Paris that evening; and after the Countess had left her Isabel had a rapid and decisive conference with her maid, who was discreet, devoted and active. After this she thought (except of her journey) only of one thing. She must go and see Pansy; from her she couldn’t turn away. She had not seen her yet, as Osmond had given her to understand that it was too soon to begin. She drove at five o’clock to a high door in a narrow street in the quarter of the Piazza Navona, and was admitted by the portress of the convent, a genial and obsequious person. Isabel had been at this institution before; she had come with Pansy to see the sisters. She knew they were good women, and she saw that the large rooms were clean and cheerful and that the well-used garden had sun for winter and shade for spring. But she disliked the place, which affronted and almost frightened her; not for the world would she have spent a night there. It produced to-day more than before the impression of a well-appointed prison; for it was not possible to pretend Pansy was free to leave it. This innocent creature had been presented to her in a new and violent light, but the secondary effect of the relation was to make her reach out a hand.
那天晚上有一趟开往都灵和巴黎的火车；伯爵夫人离开后，伊莎贝尔与她的女仆进行了一次迅速而果断的会谈，女仆是谨慎、忠诚和积极的。此后她（除了她的旅程）只想着一件事。她必须去见潘西；她无法转身离开她。她还没有见到她，因为奥斯蒙德让她明白现在开始还为时过早。五点钟，她开车来到纳沃纳广场一条狭窄街道上的一扇高门前，修道院的女门童接待了她，她是一位和蔼可亲、谄媚的人。伊莎贝尔以前曾在这个机构工作过。她和潘西一起来看望姐妹俩。她知道她们都是好女人，她看到大房间干净又令人愉快，精心使用的花园冬有阳光，春有阴凉。但她不喜欢这个地方，因为那里冒犯了她，甚至让她感到害怕。如果不是这个世界，她也不会在那里过夜。今天它给人的印象比以前更像是一座设备齐全的监狱。因为不可能假装潘西可以自由地离开它。这个无辜的生物以一种新的、暴力的眼光呈现在她面前，但这种关系的次要影响是让她伸出了手。

The portress left her to wait in the parlour of the convent while she went to make it known that there was a visitor for the dear young lady. The parlour was a vast, cold apartment, with new-looking furniture; a large clean stove of white porcelain, unlighted, a collection of wax flowers under glass, and a series of engravings from religious pictures on the walls. On the other occasion Isabel had thought it less like Rome than like Philadelphia, but to-day she made no reflexions; the apartment only seemed to her very empty and very soundless. The portress returned at the end of some five minutes, ushering in another person. Isabel got up, expecting to see one of the ladies of the sisterhood, but to her extreme surprise found herself confronted with Madame Merle. The effect was strange, for Madame Merle was already so present to her vision that her appearance in the flesh was like suddenly, and rather awfully, seeing a painted picture move. Isabel had been thinking all day of her falsity, her audacity, her ability, her probable suffering; and these dark things seemed to flash with a sudden light as she entered the room. Her being there at all had the character of ugly evidence, of handwritings, of profaned relics, of grim things produced in court. It made Isabel feel faint; if it had been necessary to speak on the spot she would have been quite unable. But no such necessity was distinct to her; it seemed to her indeed that she had absolutely nothing to say to Madame Merle. In one’s relations with this lady, however, there were never any absolute necessities; she had a manner which carried off not only her own deficiencies but those of other people. But she was different from usual: she came in slowly, behind the portress, and Isabel instantly perceived that she was not likely to depend upon her habitual resources. For her too the occasion was exceptional, and she had undertaken to treat it by the light of the moment. This gave her a peculiar gravity; she pretended not even to smile, and though Isabel saw that she was more than ever playing a part it seemed to her that on the whole the wonderful woman had never been so natural. She looked at her young friend from head to foot, but not harshly nor defiantly; with a cold gentleness rather, and an absence of any air of allusion to their last meeting. It was as if she had wished to mark a distinction. She had been irritated then, she was reconciled now.
女看门人让她在修道院的客厅里等着，而她则去通报那位亲爱的年轻女士有客人来访。客厅是一间宽敞、冰冷的公寓，家具看起来很新。一个干净的大白瓷炉子，没有点燃，玻璃下有一组蜡花，墙上有一系列宗教图片的雕刻。还有一次，伊莎贝尔觉得这里不像罗马，而更像费城，但今天她没有做出任何反应；公寓在她看来只是空荡荡的，没有声音。大约五分钟后，女门童回来了，又引进了一个人。伊莎贝尔站了起来，本以为会见到姐妹会的一位女士，但令她极为惊讶的是，她发现自己面对的是梅尔夫人。效果很奇怪，因为梅尔夫人已经如此清晰地出现在她的视野中，以至于她的肉身出现就像突然、相当可怕地看到一幅画在移动。伊莎贝尔一整天都在思考她的虚假、她的大胆、她的能力，以及她可能遭受的痛苦；当她走进房间时，这些黑暗的东西似乎突然闪烁着光芒。她的存在完全具有丑陋的证据、笔迹、亵渎的遗物、法庭上产生的可怕事物的特征。这让伊莎贝尔感到头晕目眩。如果必须当场发言，她也无能为力。但她并没有明显感觉到这种必要性。在她看来，她确实对梅尔夫人无话可说。然而，在与这位女士的关系中，从来没有任何绝对的必要性。她的举止不仅弥补了她自己的缺点，也弥补了别人的缺点。 但她与平常不同：她慢慢地进来，在女门童后面，伊莎贝尔立即意识到她不太可能依赖她惯常的资源。对于她来说，这个场合也是特殊的，她决定根据当时的情况来对待它。这给了她一种特殊的严肃感。她甚至假装没有微笑，虽然伊莎贝尔看出她比以往任何时候都更加扮演一个角色，但在她看来，总的来说，这个美妙的女人从未如此自然。她从头到脚地打量着她的年轻朋友，但既不严厉也不挑衅。而是带着一种冷漠的温柔，没有任何暗示他们上次见面的气氛。就好像她想表明一种区别。当初她还很生气，现在已经释然了。

‘You can leave us alone,’ she said to the portress; ‘in five minutes this lady will ring for you.’ And then she turned to Isabel, who, after noting what has just been mentioned, had ceased to notice and had let her eyes wander as far as the limits of the room would allow. She wished never to look at Madame Merle again. ‘You’re surprised to find me here, and I’m afraid you’re not pleased,’ this lady went on. ‘You don’t see why I should have come; it’s as if I had anticipated you. I confess I’ve been rather indiscreet-I ought to have asked your permission.’ There was none of the oblique movement of irony in this; it was said simply and mildly; but Isabel, far afloat on a sea of wonder and pain, could not have told herself with what intention it was uttered. ‘But I’ve not been sitting long,’ Madame Merle continued; ‘that is I’ve not been long with Pansy. I came to see her because it occurred to me this afternoon that she must be rather lonely and perhaps even a little miserable. It may be good for a small girl; I know so little about small girls; I can’t tell. At any rate it’s a little dismal. Therefore I cam the chance. I knew of course that you’d come, and her father as well; still, I had not been told other visitors were forbidden. The good woman-what’s her name? Madame Catherine-made no objection whatever. I stayed twenty minutes with Pansy; she has a charming little room, not in the least conventual, with a piano and flowers. She has arranged it delightfully; she has so much taste. Of course it’s all none of my business, but I feel happier since I’ve seen her. She may even have a maid if she likes; but of course she has no occasion to dress. She wears a little black frock; she looks so charming. I went afterwards to see Mother Catherine, who has a very good room too; I assure you I don’t find the poor sisters at all monastic. Mother Catherine has a most coquettish little toilet-table, with something that looked uncommonly like a bottle of eau-de-Cologne. She speaks delightfully of Pansy; says it’s a great happiness for them to have her. She’s a little saint of heaven and a model to the oldest of them. just as I was leaving Madame Catherine the portress came to say to her that there was a lady for the signorina. Of course I knew it must be you, and I asked her to let me go and receive you in her place. She demurred greatly-I must tell you that-and said it was her duty to notify the Mother Superior; it was of such high importance that you should be treated with respect. I requested her to let the Mother Superior alone and asked her how she supposed I would treat you!’
“你可以别管我们了，”她对女门童说。 “五分钟后，这位女士会按铃叫你。”然后她转向伊莎贝尔，而伊莎贝尔在注意到刚才提到的内容后，就不再注意到了，而是让她的目光在房间允许的范围内游移。她希望永远不再看梅尔夫人。 “你很惊讶在这里发现我，恐怕你不高兴，”这位女士继续说道。 “你不明白我为什么要来；就好像我已经预料到了你一样。我承认我相当不检点——我应该征求你的许可。说得简单而温和；但伊莎贝尔漂浮在惊奇和痛苦的海洋上，无法告诉自己这句话的意图是什么。 “但我并没有坐多久，”梅尔夫人继续说道。 ‘那是我和Pansy相处的时间不长。我来看她是因为今天下午我想到她一定很孤独，甚至可能有点痛苦。对于小女孩来说这可能是件好事；我对小女孩知之甚少；我不知道。无论如何，这有点令人沮丧。因此我抓住了这个机会。我当然知道你会来，还有她父亲。尽管如此，我并没有被告知禁止其他访客进入。那个好女人——她叫什么名字？凯瑟琳夫人——无论如何都没有反对。我和潘西待了二十分钟。她有一间迷人的小房间，一点也不传统，里面有钢琴和鲜花。她把这一切安排得很愉快；她很有品味。当然这不关我的事，但自从见到她我就觉得开心了。如果她愿意的话，她甚至可以有一个女仆。但她当然没有机会穿衣服。她穿着一件黑色小连衣裙；她看起来很迷人。 后来我去看了凯瑟琳妈妈，她的房间也很好。我向你保证，我根本不认为这些可怜的姐妹是修道士。凯瑟琳母亲有一个非常妖艳的小梳妆台，上面放着一些看起来非常像一瓶古龙水的东西。她愉快地谈论潘西。说拥有她对他们来说是莫大的幸福。她是天上的小圣人，也是他们中最年长的人的榜样。正当我离开凯瑟琳夫人时，女门童走过来对她说，有一位女士是女主人的。我当然知道一定是你，所以我请求她放我走，代替她来接你。她极力反对——我必须告诉你——并说她有责任通知院长。这是非常重要的，所以你应该受到尊重。我请求她不要打扰院长，并问她我会如何对待你！’

So Madame Merle went on, with much of the brilliancy of a woman who had long been a mistress of the art of conversation. But there were phases and gradations in her speech, not one of which was lost upon Isabel’s ear, though her eyes were absent from her companion’s face. She had not proceeded far before Isabel noted a sudden break in her voice, a lapse in her continuity, which was in itself a complete drama. This subtle modulation marked a momentous discovery-the perception of an entirely new attitude on the part of her listener. Madame Merle had guessed in the space of an instant that everything was at end between them, and in the space of another instant she had guessed the reason why. The person who stood there was not the same one she had seen hitherto, but was a very different person-a person who knew her secret. This discovery was tremendous, and from the moment she made it the most accomplished of women faltered and lost her courage. But only for that moment. Then the conscious stream of her perfect manner gathered itself again and flowed on as smoothly as might be to the end. But it was only because she had the end in view that she was able to proceed. She had been touched with a point that made her quiver, and she needed all the alertness of her will to repress her agitation. Her only safety was in her not betraying herself. She resisted this, but the startled quality of her voice refused to improve she couldn’t help it while she heard herself say she hardly knew what. The tide of her confidence ebbed, and she was able only just to glide into port, faintly grazing the bottom.
梅尔夫人继续说道，她的才华横溢，就像一位长期精通谈话艺术的女人一样。但她的讲话有阶段性和层次性，伊莎贝尔的耳朵里没有漏掉任何一个阶段，尽管她的眼睛没有离开同伴的脸。她还没走多远，伊莎贝尔就注意到她的声音突然中断，她的连续性出现了中断，这本身就是一场完整的戏剧。这种微妙的调制标志着一个重大发现——听众感受到了一种全新的态度。梅尔夫人在一瞬间就猜到他们之间的一切都结束了，在另一瞬间她又猜到了原因。站在那里的人不是她以前见过的那个人，而是一个截然不同的人——一个知道她秘密的人。这个发现是巨大的，从她发现它的那一刻起，这位最有成就的女性就动摇了，失去了勇气。但仅限于那一刻。然后，她完美举止的意识流再次聚集起来，尽可能顺利地流到最后。但正是因为她看到了结局，她才能继续前进。她被触动了，让她颤抖起来，她需要用全部的警觉来抑制自己的激动。她唯一的安全感就是不背叛自己。她抗拒了这一点，但她的声音中惊愕的声音并没有改善，当她听到自己说她几乎不知道什么时，她无法控制。她的信心退潮了，她只能滑入左舷，微弱地擦过船底。

Isabel saw it all as distinctly as if it had been reflected in a large clear glass. It might have been a great moment for her, for it might have been a moment of triumph. That Madame Merle had lost her pluck and saw before her the phantom of exposure-this in itself was a revenge, this in itself was almost the promise of a brighter day. And for a moment during which she stood apparently looking out of the window, with her back half-turned, Isabel enjoyed that knowledge. On the other side of the window lay the garden of the convent; but this is not what she saw; she saw nothing of the budding plants and the glowing afternoon. She saw, in the crude light of that revelation which had already become a part of experience and to which the very frailty of the vessel in which it had been offered her only gave an intrinsic price, the dry staring fact that she had been an applied handled hung-up tool, as senseless and convenient as mere shaped wood and iron. All the bitterness of this knowledge surged into her soul again; it was as if she felt on her lips the taste of dishonour. There was a moment during which, if she had turned and spoken, she would have said something that would hiss like a lash. But she closed her eyes, and then the hideous vision dropped. What remained was the cleverest woman in the world standing there within a few feet of her and knowing as little what to think as the meanest. Isabel’s only revenge was to be silent still-to leave Madame Merle in this unprecedented situation. She left her there for a period that must have seemed long to this lady, who at last seated herself with a movement which was in itself a confession of helplessness. Then Isabel turned slow eyes, looking down at her. Madame Merle was very pale; her own eyes covered Isabel’s face. She might see what she would, but her danger was over. Isabel would never accuse her, never reproach her; perhaps because she never would give her the opportunity to defend herself.
伊莎贝尔看得清清楚楚，就像是映在一块透明的大玻璃里一样。这对她来说可能是一个伟大的时刻，因为这可能是一个胜利的时刻。梅尔夫人失去了勇气，看到了暴露在她面前的幻影——这本身就是一种报复，这本身几乎就是光明的一天的希望。有那么一会儿，伊莎贝尔半转着背，明显地看着窗外，她很享受这个知识。窗户的另一边是修道院的花园。但这不是她所看到的；她没有看到正在发芽的植物和阳光明媚的午后。她看到，在那个已经成为经验一部分的启示的粗略光线中，她所接受的容器的脆弱性只给出了一个内在的价格，一个干巴巴的事实是，她一直是一个应用程序。有手柄的悬挂工具，就像单纯的木头和铁一样无意义和方便。所有这些知识的苦涩再次涌入她的灵魂；她的嘴唇上仿佛感觉到了耻辱的味道。有那么一刻，如果她转身说话，她会说出像鞭子一样嘶嘶作响的话。但她闭上了眼睛，然后那可怕的景象就消失了。剩下的就是世界上最聪明的女人，站在离她几英尺的地方，和最卑鄙的女人一样不知道该怎么想。伊莎贝尔唯一的报复就是继续保持沉默——让梅尔夫人陷入前所未有的境地。她把她留在那里一段时间，对这位女士来说一定显得很长，她最后坐下来，动作本身就表明了无助。然后伊莎贝尔缓慢地转动眼睛，低头看着她。梅尔夫人脸色苍白。她自己的眼睛遮住了伊莎贝尔的脸。 她可能会看到她想要的，但她的危险已经过去了。伊莎贝尔永远不会指责她，永远不会责备她；也许是因为她从来不给她为自己辩护的机会。

‘I’m come to bid Pansy good-bye,’ our young woman said at last. ‘I go to England to-night.’
“我是来向潘西告别的，”我们的年轻女子最后说道。 “我今晚去英国。”

‘Go to England to-night!’ Madame Merle repeated sitting there and looking up at her.
“今晚去英国！”梅尔夫人坐在那里，抬头看着她，重复道。

‘I’m going to Gardencourt. Ralph Touchett’s dying.’
“我要去花园庭院。拉尔夫·图切特快要死了。”

‘Ah, you’ll feel that.’ Madame Merle recovered herself; she had a chance to express sympathy. ‘Do you go alone?’
“啊，你会感觉到的。”梅尔夫人恢复了平静。她有机会表达同情。 “你一个人去吗？”

‘Yes; without my husband.’
'是的;没有我丈夫。”

Madame Merle gave a low vague murmur; a sort of recognition of the general sadness of things. ‘Mr. Touchett never liked me, but I’m sorry he’s dying. Shall you see his mother?’
梅尔夫人低声含糊地嘀咕了一声。一种对事物普遍悲伤的认识。 '先生。塔奇特从来不喜欢我，但我很遗憾他快要死了。你要见他的母亲吗？

‘Yes; she has returned from America.’
'是的;她从美国回来了。

‘She used to be very kind to me; but she has changed. Others too have changed,’ said Madame Merle with a quiet noble pathos. She paused a moment, then added: ‘And you’ll see dear old Gardencourt again!’
“她以前对我很好；但她已经改变了。其他人也变了。”梅尔夫人带着一种安静、高贵的哀伤说道。她停顿了一下，然后补充道：“你会再次见到亲爱的老花园庭院！”

‘I shall not enjoy it much,’ Isabel answered.
“我不会太喜欢它，”伊莎贝尔回答。

‘Naturally-in your grief. But it’s on the whole, of all the houses I know, and I know many, the one I should have liked best to live in. I don’t venture to send a message to the people,’ Madame Merle added; ‘but I should like to give my love to the place.’
“当然——在你的悲伤中。但总的来说，在我所知道的所有房子中，而且我知道很多，我最喜欢住在里面的房子。我不敢冒险向人们传达信息，”梅尔夫人补充道； “但我想把我的爱献给这个地方。”

Isabel turned away. ‘I had better go to Pansy. I’ve not much time.’
伊莎贝尔转身走开。 “我最好去潘西那里。我没有太多时间。

When she looked about her for the proper egress, the door opened and admitted one of the ladies of the house, who advanced with a discreet smile, gently rubbing, under her long loose sleeves, a pair of plump white hands. Isabel recognized Madame Catherine, whose acquaintance she had already made, and begged that she would immediately let her see Miss Osmond. Madame Catherine looked doubly discreet, but smiled very blandly and said: ‘It will be good for her to see you. I’ll take you to her myself’ Then she directed her pleased guarded vision to Madame Merle.
当她环顾四周寻找合适的出口时，门开了，一位女士走了进来，她带着谨慎的微笑走上前来，在宽松的长袖子下轻轻地摩擦着一双丰满白皙的手。伊莎贝尔认出了她已经认识的凯瑟琳夫人，请求她立即让她见见奥斯蒙德小姐。凯瑟琳夫人显得格外谨慎，但笑得很温和，说道：“她很高兴见到你。”我会亲自带你去见她。”然后她把她高兴而警惕的目光投向梅尔夫人。

‘Will you let me remain a little?’ this lady asked. ‘It’s so good to be here.’
“你能让我停留一会儿吗？”这位女士问道。 “来到这里真是太好了。”

‘You may remain always if you like!’ And the good sister gave a knowing laugh.
“如果你愿意的话，你可以永远留下来！”好姐妹会意地笑了一声。

She led Isabel out of the room, through several corridors, and up a long staircase. All these departments were solid and bare, light and clean; so, thought Isabel, are the great penal establishments. Madame Catherine gently pushed open the door of Pansy’s room and ushered in the visitor; then stood smiling with folded hands while the two others met and embraced.
她领着伊莎贝尔走出房间，穿过几条走廊，走上长长的楼梯。所有这些部门都坚固、空旷、明亮、干净。伊莎贝尔想，伟大的刑罚机构也是如此。凯瑟琳夫人轻轻地推开了潘西的房门，迎来了客人。然后双手合十微笑地站着，另外两人相遇并拥抱。

‘She’s glad to see you,’ she repeated; ‘it will do her good.’ And she placed the best chair carefully for Isabel. But she made no movement to seat herself; she seemed ready to retire. ‘How does this dear child look?’ she asked of Isabel, lingering a moment.
“她很高兴见到你，”她重复道。 “这对她有好处。”然后她小心翼翼地为伊莎贝尔放置了最好的椅子。但她没有坐下的动作；她似乎准备退休了。 “这个可爱的孩子看起来怎么样？”她问伊莎贝尔，犹豫了一会儿。

‘She looks pale,’ Isabel answered.
“她看起来很苍白，”伊莎贝尔回答。

‘That’s the pleasure of seeing you. She’s very happy. Elle eclaire la maison,’ said the good sister.
‘很高兴见到你。她很高兴。 “Elle eclaire la maison，”好姐妹说道。

Pansy wore, as Madame Merle had said, a little black dress; it was perhaps this that made her look pale. ‘They’re very good to me-they think of everything!’ she exclaimed with all her customary eagerness to accommodate.
正如梅尔夫人所说，潘西穿着一件小黑裙。或许正是因为如此，她的脸色才显得苍白。 “他们对我很好——他们考虑到了一切！”她大声说道，带着她一贯的渴望迁就的态度。

‘We think of you always-you’re a precious charge,’ Madame Catherine remarked in the tone of a woman with whom benevolence was a habit and whose conception of duty was the acceptance of every care. It fell with a leaden weight on Isabel’s ears; it seemed to represent the surrender of a personality, the authority of the Church.
“我们一直想着你——你是一个宝贵的职责，”凯瑟琳夫人用一种女人的语气说道，她的仁慈是一种习惯，她的责任观念是接受每一个关心。它像铅一样重重地落在伊莎贝尔的耳朵上。它似乎代表着个人的投降，即教会权威的投降。

When Madame Catherine had left them together Pansy kneeled down and hid her head in her stepmother’s lap. So she remained some moments, while Isabel gently stroked her hair. Then she got up, averting her face and looking about the room. ‘Don’t you think I’ve arranged it well? I’ve everything I have at home.’
当凯瑟琳夫人把他们留在一起时，潘西跪下来，把头埋在继母的腿上。于是她又呆了一会儿，伊莎贝尔轻轻地抚摸着她的头发。然后她站了起来，别过脸去环视房间。 ‘你不觉得我安排得很好吗？我家里有我所有的东西。

‘It’s very pretty; you’re very comfortable.’ Isabel scarcely knew what she could say to her. On the one hand she couldn’t let her think she had come to pity her, and on the other it would be a dull mockery to pretend to rejoice with her. So she simply added after a moment: ‘I’ve come to bid you good-bye. I’m going to England.’
‘非常漂亮；你很舒服。”伊莎贝尔几乎不知道该对她说什么。一方面不能让她以为自己是来可怜她的，另一方面假装和她一起高兴又会是一种无聊的嘲讽。于是过了一会儿她又补充道：“我是来向你告别的。”我要去英国。

Pansy’s white little face turned red. ‘To England! Not to come back?’
潘西雪白的小脸变红了。 '去英格兰！不回来吗？

‘I don’t know when I shall come back.’
“我不知道什么时候才能回来。”

‘Ah, I’m sorry,’ Pansy breathed with faintness. She spoke as if she had no right to criticize; but her tone expressed a depth of disappointment.
“啊，对不起，”Pansy 微弱地喘着气。她说话的样子就好像她没有权利批评似的。但她的语气中却流露出深深的失望。

‘My cousin, Mr. Touchett, is very ill; he’ll probably die. I wish to see him,’ Isabel said.
“我的表弟图切特先生病得很重；他可能会死。我想见他，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘Ah yes; you told me he would die. Of course you must go. And will papa go?’
'是啊;你告诉我他会死。当然你必须去。爸爸会去吗？

‘No; I shall go alone.’
'不;我一个人去。

For a moment the girl said nothing. Isabel had often wondered what she thought of the apparent relations of her father with his wife; but never by a glance, by an intimation, had she let it be seen that she deemed them deficient in an air of intimacy. She made her reflexions, Isabel was sure; and she must have had a conviction that there were husbands and wives who were more intimate than that. But Pansy was not indiscreet even in thought; she would as little have ventured to judge her gentle stepmother as to criticize her magnificent father. Her heart may have stood almost as still as it would have done had she seen two of the saints in the great picture in the convent-chapel turn their painted heads and shake them at each other. But as in this latter case she would (for very solemnity’s sake) never have mentioned the awful phenomenon, so she put away all knowledge of the secrets of larger lives than her own. ‘You’ll be very far away,’ she presently went on.
女孩一时没有说话。伊莎贝尔经常想知道她对她父亲和他妻子的表面关系有何看法。但她从来没有从一个眼神或任何暗示中看出她认为他们缺乏亲密的气氛。伊莎贝尔确信，她已经做出了反应。她一定坚信，还有比这更亲密的丈夫和妻子。但潘西即使在思想上也并不轻率。她不敢去评判她温柔的继母，就像批评她伟大的父亲一样。她的心可能几乎静止不动，就像她看到修道院教堂里那幅伟大的画中的两个圣人转动他们画着的头，互相摇晃一样。但在后一种情况下，她（为了非常庄严的缘故）永远不会提到这个可怕的现象，所以她把所有关于比她自己更伟大的生命的秘密的知识都收起来了。 “你会走得很远，”她接着说道。

‘Yes; I shall be far away. But it will scarcely matter,’ Isabel explained; ‘since so long as you’re here I can’t be called near you.’
'是的;我将远离。但这并不重要，”伊莎贝尔解释道。 “只要你在这里，我就不能被称为靠近你。”

‘Yes, but you can come and see me; though you’ve not come very often.’
“是的，但是你可以来看我；虽然你不常来。

‘I’ve not come because your father forbade it. To-day I bring nothing with me. I can’t amuse you.’
“我没来是因为你父亲不允许。”今天我什么也没带。我不能逗你开心。

‘I’m not to be amused. That’s not what papa wishes.’
‘我可不想被逗乐。这不是爸爸所希望的。

‘Then it hardly matters whether I’m in Rome or in England.’
“那么我是在罗马还是在英格兰就不再重要了。”

‘You’re not happy, Mrs. Osmond,’ said Pansy.
“你不高兴，奥斯蒙德夫人，”潘西说。

‘Not very. But it doesn’t matter.’
'不是特别的。但这并不重要。

‘That’s what I say to myself. What does it matter? But I should like to come out.’
‘这就是我对自己说的。有什么关系？但我想出来。”

‘I wish indeed you might.’
“我确实希望你可以。”

‘Don’t leave me here,’ Pansy went on gently.
“别把我留在这里，”Pansy 温柔地继续说道。

Isabel said nothing for a minute; her heart beat fast. ‘Will you come away with me now?’ she asked.
伊莎贝尔一时间什么也没说。她的心跳得很快。 “你现在愿意跟我走吗？”她问道。

Pansy looked at her pleadingly. ‘Did papa tell you to bring me?’
Pansy恳求地看着她。 “爸爸让你带我来吗？”

‘No; it’s my own proposal.’
'不;这是我自己的建议。”

‘I think I had better wait then. Did papa send me no message?’
“我想我最好再等等。爸爸没有给我发信息吗？

‘I don’t think he knew I was coming.’
“我认为他不知道我要来。”

‘He thinks I’ve not had enough,’ said Pansy. ‘But I have. The ladies are very kind to me and the little girls come to see me. There are some very little ones-such charming children. Then my room-you can see for yourself. All that’s very delightful. But I’ve had enough. Papa wished me to think a little-and I’ve thought a great deal.’
“他认为我还没有受够，”潘西说。 '但我有。女士们对我很好，小女孩们也来看我。有一些非常小的孩子——非常迷人的孩子。然后是我的房间——你可以亲自看看。这一切都非常令人愉快。但我已经受够了。爸爸希望我思考一下——而我想了很多。

‘What have you thought?’
“你觉得怎么样？”

‘Well, that I must never displease papa.’
“好吧，我绝对不能让爸爸不高兴。”

‘You knew that before.’
“你以前就知道这一点。”

‘Yes; but I know it better. I’ll do anything-I’ll do anything,’ said Pansy. Then, as she heard her own words, a deep, pure blush came into her face. Isabel read the meaning of it; she saw the poor girl had been vanquished. It was well that Mr. Edward Rosier had kept his enamels! Isabel looked into her eyes and saw there mainly a prayer to be treated easily. She laid her hand on Pansy’s as if to let her know that her look conveyed diminution of esteem; for the collapse of the girl’s momentary resistance (mute and modest thought it had been) seemed only her tribute to the truth of things. She didn’t presume to judge others, but she had judged herself; she had seen the reality. She had no vocation for struggling with combinations; in the solemnity of sequestration there was something that overwhelmed her. She bowed her pretty head to authority and only asked of authority to be merciful. Yes; it was very well that Edward Rosier had reserved a few articles!’
'是的;但我更了解它。我会做任何事——我会做任何事，”潘西说。然后，听到自己的话，她的脸上浮现出深深的、纯洁的红晕。伊莎贝尔读懂了它的意思；她看到那个可怜的女孩已经被打败了。爱德华·罗齐尔先生保留了他的珐琅质，这真是太好了！伊莎贝尔看着她的眼睛，看到的主要是一种容易被对待的祈祷。她把手放在潘西的手上，仿佛要让她知道，她的表情表达了对她的尊重的减少。因为女孩一时的抵抗的崩溃（沉默而谦虚的认为）似乎只是她对事物真相的致敬。她没有妄加评判别人，但她却评判了自己；她已经看到了现实。她没有与组合斗争的天职；在隔离的庄严中，有一种东西压倒了她。她向权威低下漂亮的头，只求权威手下留情。是的;爱德华·罗齐尔保留了几篇文章，真是太好了！”

Isabel got up; her time was rapidly shortening. ‘Good-bye then. I leave Rome to-night.’
伊莎贝尔站了起来；她的时间正在迅速缩短。 ‘那就再见了。我今晚离开罗马。

Pansy took hold of her dress; there was a sudden change in the child’s face. ‘You look strange; you frighten me.’
潘西抓住了她的裙子。孩子的脸色突然变了。 ‘你看上去很奇怪；你吓到我了。

‘Oh, I’m very harmless,’ said Isabel.
“噢，我是无害的，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘Perhaps you won’t come back?’
“也许你不会回来？”

‘Perhaps not. I can’t tell.’
'也许不是。我不知道。

‘Ah, Mrs. Osmond, you won’t leave me!’
“啊，奥斯蒙德夫人，你不会离开我的！”

Isabel now saw she had guessed everything. ‘My dear child, what can I do for you?’ she asked.
伊莎贝尔现在发现她已经猜到了一切。 “我亲爱的孩子，我能为你做什么？”她问道。

‘I don’t know-but I’m happier when I think of you.’
“我不知道——但一想到你我就更开心。”

‘You can always think of me.’
“你可以一直想着我。”

‘Not when you’re so far. I’m a little afraid,’ said Pansy.
‘当你这么远的时候就不会了。我有点害怕，”潘西说。

‘What are you afraid of?’
'你怕什么呢？'

‘Of papa-a little. And of Madame Merle. She has just been to see me.’
“爸爸的——一点点。”还有梅尔夫人。她刚刚来看我。

‘You must not say that,’ Isabel observed.
“你不可以这么说，”伊莎贝尔说道。

‘Oh, I’ll do everything they want. Only if you’re here I shall do it more easily.’
‘哦，我会做他们想做的一切。只有你在这儿我才更容易做到。

Isabel considered. ‘I won’t desert you,’ she said at last. ‘Good-bye, my child.’
伊莎贝尔想了想。 “我不会抛弃你，”她最后说道。 “再见，我的孩子。”

Then they held each other a moment in a silent embrace, like two sisters; and afterwards Pansy walked along the corridor with her visitor to the top of the staircase. ‘Madame Merle has been here,’ she remarked as they went; and as Isabel answered nothing she added abruptly: ‘I don’t like Madame Merle!’
然后她们像两姐妹一样默默地拥抱了一会儿。随后潘西和她的客人一起沿着走廊走到楼梯顶。 “梅尔夫人来过这里，”他们走的时候她说道。伊莎贝尔没有回答，她突然补充道：“我不喜欢梅尔夫人！”

Isabel hesitated, then stopped. ‘You must never say that-that you don’t like Madame Merle.’
伊莎贝尔犹豫了一下，然后停了下来。 “你绝对不能说——你不喜欢梅尔夫人。”

Pansy looked at her in wonder; but wonder with Pansy had never been a reason for non-compliance. ‘I never will again,’ she said with exquisite gentleness. At the top of the staircase they had to separate, as it appeared to be part of the mild but very definite discipline under which Pansy lived that she should not go down. Isabel descended, and when she reached the bottom the girl was standing above. ‘You’ll come back?’ she called out in a voice that Isabel remembered afterwards.
Pansy惊奇地看着她。但对潘西的好奇从来都不是不遵守的理由。 “我再也不会了，”她极其温柔地说。到了楼梯顶，他们必须分开，因为这似乎是潘西生活中温和但非常明确的纪律的一部分，她不应该下去。伊莎贝尔下降，当她到达底部时，女孩就站在上面。 “你会回来吗？”她用伊莎贝尔后来记得的声音喊道。

‘Yes-I’ll come back.’
“是的——我会回来的。”

Madame Catherine met Mrs. Osmond below and conducted her to the door of the parlour, outside of which the two stood talking a minute. ‘I won’t go in,’ said the good sister. ‘Madame Merle’s waiting for you.’
凯瑟琳夫人在楼下遇见了奥斯蒙德夫人，并把她带到客厅门口，两​​人站在客厅外面聊了一会儿。 “我不进去。”好姐妹说。 “梅尔夫人正在等您。”

At this announcement Isabel stiffened; she was on the point of asking if there were no other egress from the convent. But a moment’s reflexion assured her that she would do well not to betray to the worthy nun her desire to avoid Pansy’s other friend. Her companion grasped her arm very gently and, fixing her a moment with wise, benevolent eyes, said in French and almost familiarly: ‘Eh, bien, chere Madame, qu’en pensez-vous?’
听到这个消息，伊莎贝尔浑身僵硬。她正想问修道院是否没有其他出口。但想了一会儿，她确信自己最好不要向那位可敬的修女透露她想避开潘西的另一个朋友的愿望。她的同伴非常温柔地抓住她的手臂，用睿智、仁慈的目光注视着她，用几乎熟悉的法语说道：“呃，bien，chere，女士，qu’en pensez-vous？”

‘About my step-daughter? Oh, it would take long to tell you.’
“关于我继女的事？哦，要花很长时间才能告诉你。

‘We think it’s enough,’ Madame Catherine distinctly observed. And she pushed open the door of the parlour.
“我们认为这就足够了，”凯瑟琳夫人清楚地说道。她推开了客厅的门。

Madame Merle was sitting just as Isabel had left her, like a woman so absorbed in thought that she had not moved a little finger. As Madame Catherine closed the door she got up, and Isabel saw that she had been thinking to some purpose. She had recovered her balance; she was in full possession of her resources. ‘I found I wished to wait for you,’ she said urbanely. ‘But it’s not to talk about Pansy.’
梅尔夫人就坐在伊莎贝尔离开她的地方，就像一个全神贯注于思考的女人，连一根小指头都没有动过。当凯瑟琳夫人关上门时，她站了起来，伊莎贝尔看出她一直在思考某种目的。她恢复了平衡；她完全拥有自己的资源。 “我发现我想等你，”她温文尔雅地说。 “但这并不是要谈论潘西。”

Isabel wondered what it could be to talk about, and in spite of Madame Merle’s declaration she answered after a moment: ‘Madame Catherine says it’s enough.’
伊莎贝尔想知道可以谈论什么，尽管梅尔夫人声明了这一点，但她过了一会儿才回答：“凯瑟琳夫人说已经足够了。”

‘Yes; it also seems to me enough. I wanted to ask you another word about poor Mr. Touchett,’ Madame Merle added. ‘Have you reason to believe that he’s really at his last?’
'是的;在我看来这也足够了。我想再问你一些关于可怜的图切特先生的事。”梅尔夫人补充道。 “你有理由相信他真的已经生命垂危了吗？”

‘I’ve no information but a telegram. Unfortunately it only confirms a probability.’
“除了一封电报，我没有任何信息。不幸的是，它只证实了一种可能性。

‘I’m going to ask you a strange question,’ said Madame Merle. ‘Are you very fond of your cousin?’ And she gave a smile as strange as her utterance.
“我要问你一个奇怪的问题，”梅尔夫人说。 “你很喜欢你的表弟吗？”她露出了一个和她的话语一样奇怪的微笑。

‘Yes, I’m very fond of him. But I don’t understand you.’
‘是的，我非常喜欢他。但我不明白你的意思。

She just hung fire. ‘It’s rather hard to explain. Something has occurred to me which may not have occurred to you, and I give you the benefit of my idea. Your cousin did you once a great service. Have you never guessed it?’
她只是挂火了。 ‘这很难解释。我想到了一些你可能没有想到的事情，我让你从我的想法中受益。你的表弟曾经为你提供了很大的帮助。你从来没有猜到过吗？

‘He has done me many services.’
“他为我提供了很多服务。”

‘Yes; but one was much above the rest. He made you a rich woman.’
'是的;但有一个远远高于其他。他让你成为一个富有的女人。

‘He made me? Madame Merle appearing to see herself successful, she went on more triumphantly: ‘He imparted to you that extra lustre which was required to make you a brilliant match. At bottom it’s him you’ve to thank.’ She stopped; there was something in Isabel’s eyes.
'他使我？梅尔夫人似乎看到了自己的成功，她更加得意地继续说道：“他给了你额外的光彩，这是让你们成为绝配的一对所必需的。”归根结底，你要感谢的是他。”她停了下来；伊莎贝尔的眼里有东西。

‘I don’t understand you. It was my uncle’s money.’
‘我不明白你的意思。这是我叔叔的钱。

‘Yes; it was your uncle’s money, but it was your cousin’s idea. He brought his father over to it. Ah, my dear, the sum was large!’
'是的;这是你叔叔的钱，但却是你表弟的主意。他把他的父亲带到了这里。啊，亲爱的，这笔钱可真大啊！”

Isabel stood staring; she seemed to-day to live in a world illumined by lurid flashes. ‘I don’t know why you say such things. I don’t know what you know.’
伊莎贝尔站在那里凝视着。她今天似乎生活在一个被可怕的闪光照亮的世界里。 ‘我不知道你为什么这么说。我不知道你知道什么。

‘I know nothing but what I’ve guessed. But I’ve guessed that.’
“除了我的猜测，我什么都不知道。但我已经猜到了。

Isabel went to the door and, when she had opened it, stood a moment with her hand on the latch. Then she said-it was her only revenge: ‘I believed it was you I had to thank!’
伊莎贝尔走到门口，打开门后，手放在门闩上站了一会儿。然后她说——这是她唯一的报复：“我相信我要感谢的是你！”

Madame Merle dropped her eyes; she stood there in a kind of proud penance. ‘You’re very unhappy, I know. But I’m more so.’
梅尔夫人垂下了眼睛。她站在那儿，带着一种骄傲的忏悔。 ‘你很不高兴，我知道。但我更是如此。

‘Yes; I can believe that. I think I should like never to see you again.’
'是的;我可以相信这一点。我想我宁愿再也见不到你了。

Madame Merle raised her eyes. ‘I shall go to America,’ she quietly remarked while Isabel passed out.
梅尔夫人抬起眼睛。 “我要去美国，”伊莎贝尔昏倒时她轻声说道。

Chapter 53
第53章

It was not with surprise, it was with a feeling which in other circumstances would have had much of the effect of joy, that as Isabel descended from the Paris Mail at Charing Cross she stepped into the arms, as it were-or at any rate into the hands-of Henrietta Stackpole. She had telegraphed to her friend from Turin, and though she had not definitely said to herself that Henrietta would meet her, she had felt her telegram would produce some helpful result. On her long journey from Rome her mind had been given up to vagueness; she was unable to question the future. She performed this journey with sightless eyes and took little pleasure in the countries she traversed, decked out though they were in the richest freshness of spring. Her thoughts followed their course through other countries-strange-looking, dimly-lighted, pathless lands, in which there was no change of seasons, but only, as it seemed, a perpetual dreariness of winter. She had plenty to think about; but it was neither reflexion nor conscious purpose that filled her mind. Disconnected visions passed through it, and sudden gleams of memory, of expectation. The past and the future came and went at their will, but she saw them only in fitful images, which rose and fell by a logic of their own. It was extraordinary the things she remembered. Now that she was in the secret, now that she knew something that so much concerned her and the eclipse of which had made life resemble an attempt to play whist with an imperfect pack of cards, the truth of things, their mutual relations, their meaning, and for the most part their horror, rose before her with a kind of architectural vastness. She remembered a thousand trifles; they started to life with the spontaneity of a shiver. She had thought them trifles at the time; now she saw that they had been weighted with lead. Yet even now they were trifles after all, for of what use was it to her to understand them? Nothing seemed of use to her to-day. All purpose, all intention, was suspended; all desire too save the single desire to reach her much-embracing refuge. Gardencourt had been her starting point, and to those muffled chambers it was at least a temporary solution to return. She had gone forth in her strength; she would come back in her weakness, and if the place had been a rest to her before, it would be a sanctuary now. She envied Ralph his dying, for if one were thinking of rest that was the most perfect of all. To cease utterly, to give it all up and not know anything more-this idea was as sweet as the vision of a cool bath in a marble tank, in a darkened chamber, in a hot land.
当伊莎贝尔从查林十字车站的巴黎邮报走下来时，她走进了怀抱，这并不令人惊讶，而是带着一种在其他情况下会产生很大的喜悦效果的感觉。落入亨丽埃塔·斯塔克波尔 (Henrietta Stackpole) 的手中。她从都灵给她的朋友打了电报，虽然她没有明确告诉自己亨丽埃塔会见她，但她觉得她的电报会产生一些有用的结果。在从罗马出发的漫长旅途中，她的思绪已经变得模糊。她无法质疑未来。她以失明的眼睛完成了这次旅程，对她所走过的国家并没有多少乐趣，尽管它们正处于春天最丰富的新鲜之中。她的思绪沿着其他国家的轨迹走去——那些看起来很奇怪、光线昏暗、没有道路的土地，那里没有季节的变化，但似乎只有永远沉闷的冬天。她有很多事情要考虑；但她脑子里既不是反射，也不是有意识的目的。断断续续的景象掠过眼前，记忆和期待的光芒突然闪现。过去和未来随心所欲地来来去去，但她只看到它们断断续续的影像，这些影像按照它们自己的逻辑起伏。她所记得的事情非同寻常。现在她已经处于秘密之中，现在她知道了一些她非常关心的事情，而这些事情的消失让生活就像是试图用一副不完美的牌玩惠斯特，事物的真相，它们之间的相互关系，它们的意义以及大部分的恐惧，以一种建筑般的浩瀚呈现在她面前。她想起了一千件琐事；他们自然而然地开始了生活。 当时她认为这些都是小事。现在她看到它们是用铅加重的。但现在毕竟都是小事，她了解又有什么用呢？今天对她来说似乎没有什么用处。所有的目的、所有的意图都被搁置了；除了到达她拥抱的避难所的唯一愿望之外，所有的愿望也是如此。花园庭院是她的出发点，回到那些闷热的房间至少是一个暂时的解决办法。她凭着自己的力量向前迈进。她会在虚弱中回来，如果这个地方以前对她来说是一个休息的地方，那么现在它就会成为一个避难所。她羡慕拉尔夫的死，因为如果一个人想到的是休息，那就是最完美的了。彻底停止，放弃一切，不再知道任何事情——这个想法就像在炎热的土地上、在黑暗的房间里、在大理石水箱里洗冷水澡的景象一样甜蜜。

She had moments indeed in her journey from Rome which were almost as good as being dead. She sat in her corner, so motionless, so passive, simply with the sense of being carried, so detached from hope and regret, that she recalled to herself one of those Etruscan figures couched upon the receptacle of their ashes. There was nothing to regret now-that was all over. Not only the time of her folly, but the time of her repentance was far. The only thing to regret was that Madame Merle had been so-well, so unimaginable. just here her intelligence dropped, from literal inability to say what it was that Madame Merle had been. Whatever it was it was for Madame Merle herself to regret it; and doubtless she would do so in America, where she had announced she was going. It concerned Isabel no more; she only had an impression that she should never again see Madame Merle. This impression carried her into the future, of which from time to time she had a mutilated glimpse. She saw herself, in the distant years, still in the attitude of a woman who had her life to live, and these intimations contradicted the spirit of the present hour. It might be desirable to get quite away, really away, further away than little grey-green England, but this privilege was evidently to be denied her. Deep in her soul-deeper than any appetite for renunciation-was the sense that life would be her business for a long time to come. And at moments there was something inspiring, almost enlivening, in the conviction. It was a proof of strength-it was a proof she should some day be happy again. It couldn’t be she was to live only to suffer; she was still young, after all, and a great many things might happen to her yet. To live only to suffer-only to feel the injury of life repeated and enlarged-it seemed to her she was too valuable, too capable, for that. Then she wondered if it were vain and stupid to think so well of herself. When had it even been a guarantee to be valuable? Wasn’t all history full of the destruction of precious things? Wasn’t it much more probable that if one were fine one would suffer? It involved then perhaps an admission that one had a certain grossness; but Isabel recognized, as it passed before her eyes, the quick vague shadow of a long future. She should never escape; she should last to the end. Then the middle years wrapped her about again and the grey curtain of her indifference closed her in.
在从罗马出发的旅途中，她确实有过一些几乎和死了一样好的时刻。她坐在自己的角落里，一动不动，如此被动，只是带着一种被牵着走的感觉，如此远离希望和遗憾，以至于她想起了那些躺在骨灰盒上的伊特鲁里亚人物之一。现在没有什么可后悔的了——一切都结束了。不仅她愚蠢的时候到了，而且她悔改的时候也已经很远了。唯一遗憾的是梅尔夫人表现得那么好，那么令人难以想象。就在这时，她的智力下降了，因为她根本无法说出梅尔夫人到底是什么样的人。不管怎样，梅尔夫人自己都后悔了；毫无疑问，她会在美国这样做，因为她已经宣布要去那里。它不再与伊莎贝尔有关；它与伊莎贝尔无关。她只觉得自己再也见不到梅尔夫人了。这种印象将她带入未来，她时不时地瞥见未来的残缺不全。她看到自己，在遥远的岁月里，仍然处于一个有自己的生活的女人的态度，而这些暗示与当今时代的精神相矛盾。离开得很远，真正离开，比灰绿色的小英格兰更远，也许是可取的，但这种特权显然被剥夺了。在她的灵魂深处——比任何放弃的欲望都更深——是这样一种感觉：在未来很长一段时间内，生活将是她的事。有时，这种信念会带来一些鼓舞人心、几乎令人振奋的东西。这是力量的证明——这是她有一天会再次幸福的证明。她不可能只是为了受苦而活着；她不可能只是为了受苦而活着。她毕竟还年轻，还有很多事情可能发生在她身上。 活着只是为了受苦——只是为了感受生命中的伤害的重复和扩大——在她看来，她太有价值了，太有能力了，不适合这样做。然后她想，把自己想得这么好是不是虚荣又愚蠢。什么时候它甚至成为了有价值的保证？历史不都充满了珍贵事物的毁灭吗？如果一个人没事，那么他受苦的可能性不是更大吗？这可能意味着承认一个人有某种粗俗的一面；但伊莎贝尔认出了，当它在她眼前掠过时，一个遥远的未来的模糊的影子很快就出现了。她绝对不应该逃跑；她应该坚持到最后。然后，中年再次将她包裹起来，冷漠的灰色帷幕将她封闭起来。

Henrietta kissed her, as Henrietta usually kissed, as if she were afraid she should be caught doing it; and then Isabel stood there in the crowd, looking about her, looking for her servant. She asked nothing; she wished to wait. She had a sudden perception that she should be helped. She rejoiced Henrietta had come; there was something terrible in an arrival in London. The dusky, smoky, far-arching vault of the station, the strange, livid light, the dense, dark, pushing crowd, filled her with a nervous fear and made her put her arm into her friend’s. She remembered she had once liked these things; they seemed part of a mighty spectacle in which there was something that touched her. She remembered how she walked away from Euston, in the winter dusk, in the crowded streets, five years before. She could not have done that to-day, and the incident came before her as the deed of another person.
亨丽埃塔吻了她，就像亨丽埃塔通常亲吻的那样，好像她害怕这样做会被人发现。然后伊莎贝尔站在人群中，环顾四周，寻找她的仆人。她什么也没问；她想等。她突然觉得自己应该得到帮助。她很高兴亨丽埃塔来了。抵达伦敦后发生了一些可怕的事情。车站昏暗、烟雾缭绕、远方拱形的拱顶，奇怪、青色的灯光，密集、黑暗、拥挤的人群，让她充满了紧张的恐惧，让她把手臂伸进了朋友的手臂。她记得她曾经喜欢过这些东西；它们似乎是一个伟大奇观的一部分，其中有某种东西触动了她。她记得五年前，在冬日的黄昏，在拥挤的街道上，她是如何离开尤斯顿的。今天她不可能这么做，而这件事作为另一个人的行为出现在她面前。

‘It’s too beautiful that you should have come,’ said Henrietta, looking at her as if she thought Isabel might be prepared to challenge the proposition. ‘If you hadn’t-if you hadn’t; well, I don’t know,’ remarked Miss Stackpole, hinting ominously at her powers of disapproval.
“你应该来真是太好了，”亨利埃塔说，看着她，好像她认为伊莎贝尔可能准备好挑战这个提议。 “如果你没有——如果你没有；好吧，我不知道。”斯塔克波尔小姐说道，不祥地暗示着她有反对的力量。

Isabel looked about without seeing her maid. Her eyes rested on another figure, however, which she felt she had seen before; and in a moment she recognized the genial countenance of Mr. Bantling. He stood a little apart, and it was not in the power of the multitude that pressed about him to make him yield an inch of the ground he had taken-that of abstracting himself discreetly while the two ladies performed their embraces.
伊莎贝尔环顾四周，没有看到她的女仆。然而，她的目光落在了另一个人影上，她觉得她以前见过这个人影。刹那间，她认出了班特林先生和蔼可亲的面容。他站得稍远一些，围在他周围的群众的力量也无法让他让出一英寸的土地——在两位女士拥抱时，他要小心翼翼地抽身。

‘There’s Mr. Bantling,’ said Isabel, gently, irrelevantly, scarcely caring much now whether she should find her maid or not.
“班特林先生在那儿，”伊莎贝尔轻声说道，语气无关紧要，现在她几乎不在乎是否应该找到她的女仆。

‘Oh yes, he goes everywhere with me. Come here, Mr. Bantling!’ Henrietta exclaimed. Whereupon the gallant bachelor advanced with a smile-a smile tempered, however, by the gravity of the occasion.
“哦，是的，他到处都跟我在一起。 “过来，班特林先生！”亨利埃塔喊道。于是这位英勇的单身汉微笑着走了上来——然而，由于场合的严肃，笑容缓和了一些。

‘Isn’t it lovely she has come?’ Henrietta asked. ‘He knows all about it,’ she added; ‘we had quite a discussion. He said you wouldn’t, I said you would.’
“她来了，不是很高兴吗？”亨丽埃塔问道。 “他知道这一切，”她补充道。 “我们进行了一番讨论。他说你不会，我说你会。

‘I thought you always agreed,’ Isabel smiled in return. She felt she could smile now; she had seen in an instant, in Mr. Bantling’s brave eyes, that he had good news for her. They seemed to say he wished her to remember he was an old friend of her cousin-that he understood, that it was all right. Isabel gave him her hand; she thought of him, extravagantly, as a beautiful blameless knight.
“我以为你总是同意，”伊莎贝尔微笑着回应。她觉得她现在可以微笑了；她立刻从班特林先生勇敢的眼睛里看出，他给她带来了好消息。他们似乎在说他希望她记住他是她表弟的老朋友——他理解，没关系。伊莎贝尔向他伸出了手；她认为他是一位美丽而无可指责的骑士。

‘Oh, I always agree,’ said Mr. Bantling. ‘But she doesn’t, you know.’
“哦，我总是同意，”班特林先生说。 “但她不知道，你知道。”

‘Didn’t I tell you that a maid was a nuisance?’ Henrietta enquired.
“我不是告诉过你女仆很麻烦吗？”亨丽埃塔问道。

‘Your young lady has probably remained at Calais.’
“你的小姐可能还留在加莱。”

‘I don’t care,’ said Isabel, looking at Mr. Bantling, whom she had never found so interesting.
“我不在乎，”伊莎贝尔看着班特林先生说道，她从来没有觉得他如此有趣。

‘Stay with her while I go and see,’ Henrietta commanded, leaving the two for a moment together.
“我去看看的时候，陪在她身边。”亨利埃塔命令道，让两人在一起呆了一会儿。

They stood there at first in silence, and then Mr. Bantling asked Isabel how it had been on the Channel.
他们一开始默默地站在那里，然后班特林先生问伊莎贝尔在英吉利海峡的情况如何。

‘Very fine. No, I believe it was very rough,’ she said, to her companion’s obvious surprise. After which she added: ‘You’ve been to Gardencourt, I know.’
'很好。不，我相信那是非常艰难的，”她说，这让她的同伴明显感到惊讶。之后她补充道：“我知道你去过花园庭院。”

‘Now how do you know that?’
“那你怎么知道呢？”

‘I can’t tell you-except that you look like a person who has been to Gardencourt.’
“我不能告诉你——只是你看起来像一个去过花园考特的人。”

‘Do you think I look awfully sad? It’s awfully sad there, you know.’
‘你觉得我看起来很悲伤吗？你知道，那里非常悲伤。”

‘I don’t believe you ever look awfully sad. You look awfully kind,’ said Isabel with a breadth that cost her no effort. It seemed to her she should never again feel a superficial embarrassment.
“我不相信你看上去会如此悲伤。你看起来非常友善。”伊莎贝尔毫不费力地说道。在她看来，她再也不会感到表面上的尴尬了。

Poor Mr. Bantling, however, was still in this inferior stage. He blushed a good deal and laughed, he assured her that he was often very blue, and that when he was blue he was awfully fierce. ‘You can ask Miss Stackpole, you know. I was at Gardencourt two days ago.’
然而，可怜的班特林先生仍处于这种低劣的阶段。他脸红了很多，笑了，他向她保证，他经常很忧郁，而且当他忧郁的时候，他非常凶猛。 “你知道，你可以问斯塔克波尔小姐。两天前我在花园庭院。

‘Did you see my cousin?’
“你看到我表弟了吗？”

‘Only for a little. But he had been seeing people; Warburton had been there the day before. Ralph was just the same as usual, except that he was in bed and that he looks tremendously ill and that he can’t speak,’ Mr. Bantling pursued. ‘He was awfully jolly and funny all the same. He was just as clever as ever. It’s awfully wretched.’
‘只是一点点。但他一直在见人；沃伯顿前一天就到过那里。拉尔夫和平常一样，只是躺在床上，看上去病得很重，而且不能说话。”班特林先生继续说道。 “尽管如此，他仍然非常快乐和有趣。他和以前一样聪明。真是太可怜了。

Even in the crowded, noisy station this simple picture was vivid. ‘Was that late in the day?’
即使在拥挤、喧闹的车站，这幅简单的画面也依然生动。 “那天很晚吗？”

‘Yes; I went on purpose. We thought you’d like to know.’
'是的;我是故意去的。我们认为你想知道。

greatly obliged to you. Can I go down to-night?’
非常感谢你。我今晚可以下去吗？

‘Ah, I don’t think she’ll let you go,’ said Mr. Bantling. ‘She wants you to stop with her. I made Touchett’s man promise to telegraph me to-day, and I found the telegram an hour ago at my club. ‘Quiet and easy,’ that’s what it says, and it’s dated two o’clock. So you see you can wait till tomorrow. You must be awfully tired.’
“啊，我想她不会放你走的，”班特林先生说。 ‘她希望你停止和她在一起。我让图切特的人答应今天给我发电报，一小时前我在我的俱乐部找到了那封电报。上面写着“安静而轻松”，日期是两点钟。所以你看你可以等到明天。你一定很累了。

‘Yes, I’m awfully tired. And I thank you again.’
‘是的，我实在太累了。我再次感谢你。

‘Oh,’ said Mr. Bantling, ‘we were certain you would like the last news.’ On which Isabel vaguely noted that he and Henrietta seemed after all to agree. Miss Stackpole came back with Isabel’s maid, whom she had caught in the act of proving her utility. This excellent person, instead of losing herself in the crowd, had simply attended to her mistress’s luggage, so that the latter was now at liberty to leave the station. ‘You know you’re not to think of going to the country to-night,’ Henrietta remarked to her. ‘It doesn’t matter whether there’s a train or not. You’re to come straight to me in Wimpole Street. There isn’t a corner to be had in London, but I’ve got you one all the same. It isn’t a Roman palace, but it will do for a night.’
“哦，”班特林先生说，“我们确信你会喜欢最后的消息。”伊莎贝尔含糊地注意到他和亨丽埃塔似乎最终同意了。斯塔克波尔小姐带着伊莎贝尔的女仆回来了，她在证明自己效用的行为中抓住了她。这位优秀的人没有在人群中迷失自己，而是简单地照管了女主人的行李，这样女主人就可以自由地离开车站了。 “你知道今晚你不会想到去乡下，”亨利埃塔对她说。 “有没有火车并不重要。你可以直接到温波尔街来找我。伦敦没有角落，但我还是给你找到了一个。这不是罗马宫殿，但住一晚就够了。”

‘I’ll do whatever you wish,’ Isabel said.
“我会做任何你想做的事，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘You’ll come and answer a few questions; that’s what I wish.’
‘你会过来回答几个问题；这就是我的愿望。

‘She doesn’t say anything about dinner, does she, Mrs. Osmond?’ Mr.
“奥斯蒙德太太，她没有说任何关于晚餐的事，是吗？”

Bantling enquired jocosely.
班特林开玩笑地问道。

Henrietta fixed him a moment with her speculative gaze. ‘I see you’re in a great hurry to get your own. You’ll be at the Paddington Station to-morrow morning at ten.’
亨丽埃塔用她思索的目光盯着他看了一会儿。 “我看你很着急想要得到自己的。”明天早上十点你将到达帕丁顿车站。

‘Don’t come for my sake, Mr. Bantling,’ said Isabel.
“别为了我来，班特林先生，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘He’ll come for mine,’ Henrietta declared as she ushered her friend into a cab. And later, in a large dusky parlour in Wimpole Street-to do her justice there had been dinner enough-she asked those questions to which she had alluded at the station. ‘Did your husband make you a scene about your coming?’ That was Miss Stackpole’s first enquiry.
“他会来接我的，”亨利埃塔在把她的朋友带进出租车时宣布。后来，在温普尔街一间昏暗的大客厅里——公平地说，晚餐已经吃够了——她问了她在车站提到的那些问题。 “你的丈夫有没有对你的到来大吵大闹？”这是斯塔克波尔小姐的第一个询问。

‘No; I can’t say he made a scene.’
'不;我不能说他大吵大闹。

‘He didn’t object then?’
“那他没有反对吗？”

‘Yes, he objected very much. But it was not what you’d call a scene.’
‘是的，他非常反对。但这不是你所说的场景。”

‘What was it then?’
“那是什么？”

‘It was a very quiet conversation.’
“这是一次非常安静的谈话。”

Henrietta for a moment regarded her guest. ‘It must have been hellish,’ she then remarked. And Isabel didn’t deny that it had been hellish. But she confined herself to answering Henrietta’s questions, which was easy, as they were tolerably definite. For the present she offered her no new information. ‘Well,’ said Miss Stackpole at last, ‘I’ve only one criticism to make. I don’t see why you promised little Miss Osmond to go back.’
亨利埃塔看了一会儿她的客人。 “那一定是地狱般的感觉，”她接着说道。伊莎贝尔并不否认那是地狱般的经历。但她只回答了亨丽埃塔的问题，这很容易，因为问题相当明确。目前她没有向她提供任何新信息。 “好吧，”斯塔克波尔小姐最后说道，“我只想提出一个批评。我不明白你为什么答应小奥斯蒙德小姐回去。

‘I’m not sure I myself see now,’ Isabel replied. ‘But I did then.’
“我不确定我现在是否看到了，”伊莎贝尔回答道。 “但我当时就这么做了。”

‘If you’ve forgotten your reason perhaps you won’t return.’
“如果你忘记了你的理由，也许你就不会回来了。”

Isabel waited a moment. ‘Perhaps I shall find another.’
伊莎贝尔等了一会儿。 “也许我会找到另一个。”

‘You’ll certainly never find a good one.’
“你肯定永远找不到一个好人。”

‘In default of a better my having promised will do,’ Isabel suggested.
“如果没有更好的承诺，我会做的，”伊莎贝尔建议道。

‘Yes; that’s why I hate it.’
'是的;这就是我讨厌它的原因。

‘Don’t speak of it now. I’ve a little time. Coming away was a complication, but what will going back be?’
‘现在别说这个了。我有一点时间。离开是一个复杂的问题，但回来会怎样呢？

‘You must remember, after all, that he won’t make you a scene!’ said Henrietta with much intention.
“你必须记住，他不会让你大吵大闹的！”亨丽埃塔意味深长地说。

‘He will, though,’ Isabel answered gravely. ‘It won’t be the scene of a moment; it will be a scene of the rest of my life.’
“不过他会的，”伊莎贝尔严肃地回答。 “这不会是一时的景象；这将是我余生的一个场景。

For some minutes the two women sat and considered this remainder, and then Miss Stackpole, to change the subject, as Isabel had requested, announced abruptly:
两个女人坐下来思考了几分钟，然后斯塔克波尔小姐按照伊莎贝尔的要求改变了话题，突然宣布：

‘I’ve been to stay with Lady Pensil!’
“我一直和彭西尔女士住在一起！”

‘Ah, the invitation came at last!’
“啊，邀请函终于来了！”

‘Yes; it took five years. But this time she wanted to see me.’
'是的;花了五年时间。但这一次她想见我。

‘Naturally enough.’
“自然够了。”

‘It was more natural than I think you know,’ said Henrietta, who fixed her eyes on a distant point. And then she added, turning suddenly: ‘Isabel Archer, I beg your pardon. You don’t know why? Because I criticized you, and yet I’ve gone further than you. Mr. Osmond, at least, was born on the other side!’
“这比我想象的更自然，”亨利埃塔说道，她的目光定定在远处。然后她突然转过身补充道：“伊莎贝尔·阿切尔，请原谅。”你不知道为什么吗？因为我批评了你，但我却比你走得更远。至少奥斯蒙德先生出生在另一边！

It was a moment before Isabel grasped her meaning; this sense was so modestly, or at least so ingeniously, veiled. Isabel’s mind was not possessed at present with the comicality of things; but she greeted with a quick laugh the image that her companion had raised. She immediately recovered herself, however, and with the right excess of intensity, ‘Henrietta Stackpole,’ she asked, ‘are you going to give up your country?’
伊莎贝尔过了一会儿才明白她的意思。这种感觉是如此谦虚，或者至少是如此巧妙地被掩盖了。伊莎贝尔现在的心思并没有被事情的滑稽所吸引；但她一想到同伴提出的形象，就立即大笑起来。然而，她立即恢复了平静，并以适当的过度紧张，“亨利埃塔·斯塔克波尔，”她问道，“你要放弃你的国家吗？”

‘Yes, my poor Isabel, I am. I won’t pretend to deny it; I look the fact in the face. I’m going to marry Mr. Bantling and locate right here in London.’
“是的，我可怜的伊莎贝尔，我就是。”我不会假装否认；我正视事实。我要嫁给班特林先生，并定居在伦敦。

‘It seems very strange,’ said Isabel, smiling now.
“这看起来很奇怪，”伊莎贝尔微笑着说道。

‘Well yes, I suppose it does. I’ve come to it little by little. I think I know what I’m doing; but I don’t know as I can explain.’
“嗯，是的，我想是这样。我是一点一点地做到的。我想我知道我在做什么；但我不知道，我可以解释一下。”

‘One can’t explain one’s marriage,’ Isabel answered. ‘And yours doesn’t need to be explained. Mr. Bantling isn’t a riddle.’
“一个人无法解释自己的婚姻，”伊莎贝尔回答道。 ‘而你的事情不需要解释。班特林先生不是一个谜语。

‘No, he isn’t a bad pun-or even a high flight of American humour. He has a beautiful nature,’ Henrietta went on. ‘I’ve studied him for many years and I see right through him. He’s as clear as the style of a good prospectus. He’s not intellectual, but he appreciates intellect. On the other hand he doesn’t exaggerate its claims. I sometimes think we do in the United States.’
“不，他不是一个糟糕的双关语，甚至不是一个高度美式幽默的人。他有美丽的本性，”亨利埃塔继续说道。 “我研究他很多年了，我看透了他。他的思路就像优秀招股说明书的风格一样清晰。他不是知识分子，但他欣赏知识分子。另一方面，他并没有夸大其主张。我有时认为我们在美国也是如此。

‘Ah,’ said Isabel, ‘you’re changed indeed! It’s the first time I’ve ever heard you say anything against your native land.’
“啊，”伊莎贝尔说，“你确实变了！这是我第一次听到你说任何反对你祖国的言论。”

‘I only say that we’re too infatuated with mere brain-power; that, after all, isn’t a vulgar fault. But I am changed; a woman has to change a good deal to marry.’
“我只是说我们太迷恋脑力了；毕竟，这不是一个粗俗的错误。但我变了；女人必须做出很多改变才能结婚。”

‘I hope you’ll be very happy. You will at last-over here-see something of the inner life.’
‘我希望你会很幸福。你最终会在这里看到内心生活的一些东西。

Henrietta gave a little significant sigh. ‘That’s the key to the mystery, I believe. I couldn’t endure to be kept off. Now I’ve as good a right as any one!’ she added with artless elation.
亨利埃塔意味深长地叹了口气。 “我相信，这就是解开谜团的关键。”我无法忍受被拒之门外。现在我和任何人一样享有良好的权利！”她自然而然地兴高采烈地补充道。

Isabel was duly diverted, but there was a certain melancholy in her view. Henrietta, after all, had confessed herself human and feminine, Henrietta whom she had hitherto regarded as a light keen flame, a disembodied voice. It was a disappointment to find she had personal susceptibilities, that she was subject to common passions, and that her intimacy with Mr. Bantling had not been completely original. There was a want of originality in her marrying him-there was even a kind of stupidity; and for a moment, to Isabel’s sense, the dreariness of the world took on a deeper tinge. A little later indeed she reflected that Mr. Bantling himself at least was original. But she didn’t see how Henrietta could give up her country. She herself had relaxed her hold of it, but it had never been her country as it had been Henrietta’s. She presently asked her if she had enjoyed her visit to Lady Pensil.
伊莎贝尔的心情适时地转移了注意力，但她的眼神中却有一丝忧郁。毕竟，亨丽埃塔承认自己是人类和女性，迄今为止，她一直将亨丽埃塔视为一道明亮而敏锐的火焰，一个无形的声音。令人失望的是，她发现自己有个人的敏感性，受制于共同的激情，而且她与班特林先生的亲密关系并不是完全原创的。她嫁给他缺乏创意——甚至有一种愚蠢。伊莎贝尔感觉，一时之间，世界的阴郁色彩变得更深了。过了一会儿，她确实意识到班特林先生本人至少是有原创性的。但她不明白亨利埃塔怎么会放弃她的国家。她自己也放松了对它的控制，但它从来都不是她的国家，而是亨利埃塔的国家。她随即问她拜访彭西尔夫人是否愉快。

‘Oh yes,’ said Henrietta, ‘she didn’t know what to make of me.’
“哦，是的，”亨丽埃塔说，“她不知道该怎么看待我。”

‘And was that very enjoyable?’
“那很愉快吗？”

‘Very much so, because she’s supposed to be a master mind. She thinks she knows everything; but she doesn’t understand a woman of my modern type. It would be so much easier for her if I were only a little better or a little worse. She’s so puzzled; I believe she thinks it’s my duty to go and do something immoral. She thinks it’s immoral that I should marry her brother; but, after all, that isn’t immoral enough. And she’ll never understand my mixture-never!’
“非常如此，因为她应该是一个大师。她以为她什么都知道；但她不理解我这样的现代女性。如果我好一点或差一点，对她来说就会容易得多。她很困惑；我相信她认为我有责任去做一些不道德的事情。她认为我嫁给她哥哥是不道德的；但毕竟，这还不够不道德。她永远不会理解我的混合物——永远不会！

‘She’s not so intelligent as her brother then,’ said Isabel. ‘He appears to have understood.’
“那时她不如她哥哥那么聪明，”伊莎贝尔说。 “他似乎已经明白了。”

‘Oh no, he hasn’t!’ cried Miss Stackpole with decision. ‘I really believe that’s what he wants to marry me for-just to find out the mystery and the proportions of it. That’s a fixed idea-a kind of fascination.’
“噢，不，他没有！”斯塔克波尔小姐坚决地喊道。 “我真的相信这就是他想娶我的目的——只是为了找出其中的奥秘及其比例。这是一个固定的想法——一种迷恋。

‘It’s very good in you to humour it.’
“你能幽默起来真是太好了。”

‘Oh well,’ said Henrietta, ‘I’ve something to find out too!’ And Isabel saw that she had not renounced an allegiance, but planned an attack. She was at last about to grapple in earnest with England.
“哦，好吧，”亨丽埃塔说，“我也有一些事情要查明！”伊莎贝尔发现她并没有放弃效忠，而是计划发动袭击。她终于要认真地与英格兰较量了。

Isabel also perceived, however, on the morrow, at the Paddington Station, where she found herself, at ten o’clock, in the company both of Miss Stackpole and Mr. Bantling, that the gentleman bore his perplexities lightly. If he had not found out everything he had found out at least the great point-that Miss Stackpole would not be wanting in initiative. It was evident that in the selection of a wife he had been on his guard against this deficiency.
然而，第二天，在帕丁顿车站，伊莎贝尔也意识到，十点钟，她发现自己在斯塔克波尔小姐和班特林先生的陪伴下，这位绅士对他的困惑毫不在意。即使他没有发现一切，他至少也发现了最重要的一点——斯塔克波尔小姐不会缺乏主动性。可见，他在挑选妻子时，是很注意这一点的。

‘Henrietta has told me, and I’m very glad,’ Isabel said as she gave him her hand.
“亨利埃塔告诉了我，我很高兴，”伊莎贝尔一边说，一边向他伸出了手。

‘I dare say you think it awfully odd,’ Mr. Bantling replied, resting on his neat umbrella.
“我敢说你觉得这很奇怪，”班特林先生回答道，靠在他整洁的雨伞上。

‘Yes, I think it awfully odd.’
“是的，我觉得这很奇怪。”

‘You can’t think it so awfully odd as I do. But I’ve always rather liked striking out a line,’ said Mr. Bantling serenely.
“你不可能像我一样认为这非常奇怪。但我一直很喜欢划线，”班特林先生平静地说。

Chapter 54
第54章

Isabel’s arrival at Gardencourt on this second occasion was even quieter than it had been on the first. Ralph Touchett kept but a small household, and to the new servants Mrs. Osmond was a stranger; so that instead of being conducted to her own apartment she was coldly shown into the drawing-room and left to wait while her name was carried up to her aunt. She waited a long time; Mrs. Touchett appeared in no hurry to come to her. She grew impatient at last; she grew nervous and scared as scared as if the objects about her had begun to show for conscious things, watching her trouble with grotesque grimaces. The day was dark and cold; the dusk was thick in the corners of the wide brown rooms. The house was perfectly still-with a stillness that Isabel remembered; it had filled all the place for days before the death of her uncle. She left the drawing-room and wandered about-strolled into the library and along the gallery of pictures, where, in the deep silence, her footstep made an echo. Nothing was changed; she recognized everything she had seen years before; it might have been only yesterday she had stood there. She envied the security of valuable ‘pieces’ which change by no hair’s breadth, only grow in value, while their owners lose inch by inch youth, happiness, beauty; and she became aware that she was walking about as her aunt had done on the day she had come to see her in Albany. She was changed enough since then-that had been the beginning. It suddenly struck her that if her Aunt Lydia had not come that day in just that way and found her alone, everything might have been different. She might have had another life and she might have been a woman more blest. She stopped in the gallery in front of a small picture-a charming and precious Bonington-upon which her eyes rested a long time. But she was not looking at the picture; she was wondering whether if her aunt had not come that day in Albany she would have married Caspar Goodwood.
伊莎贝尔第二次来到花园庭院时比第一次更安静。拉尔夫·图切特只保留了一个小家庭，对于新仆人来说，奥斯蒙德夫人是个陌生人。因此，她没有被领到自己的公寓，而是冷冷地被带到客厅，并留下等待，直到她的名字被带到她的姨妈那里。她等了很久；塔切特夫人似乎并不急着来找她。她终于变得不耐烦了。她变得紧张和害怕，害怕得好像她周围的物体开始表现出有意识的东西，用怪异的鬼脸看着她的麻烦。天又黑又冷。宽阔的棕色房间的角落里，暮色很浓。房子里一片寂静——是伊莎贝尔记忆中的那种寂静。在她叔叔去世前几天，它已经占据了所有地方。她离开客厅，闲逛着——漫步到图书馆，沿着画廊，在深深的寂静中，她的脚步声发出回声。一切都没有改变；她认出了多年前所见的一切。她站在那里也许就在昨天。她羡慕那些有价值的“碎片”的安全感，这些“碎片”丝毫没有改变，只会增值，而它们的主人却一寸一寸地失去青春、幸福和美丽；她意识到自己正在走来走去，就像她姨妈来奥尔巴尼看她那天那样。从那时起，她已经发生了很大的变化——那只是开始。她突然想到，如果莉迪亚婶婶那天没有那样来，发现她独自一人，一切可能都会不同。她可能会有另一种生活，她可能会成为一个更幸福的女人。 她在画廊里的一幅小画前停下来——一幅迷人而珍贵的博宁顿——她的目光在这幅画上停留了很长时间。但她并没有在看照片，而是在看照片。她想知道如果她姨妈那天没有来奥尔巴尼，她是否会嫁给卡斯帕·古德伍德。

Mrs. Touchett appeared at last, just after Isabel had returned to the big uninhabited drawing-room. She looked a good deal older, but her eye was as bright as ever and her head as erect; her thin lips seemed a repository of latent meanings. She wore a little grey dress of the most undecorated fashion, and Isabel wondered, as she had wondered the first time, if her remarkable kinswoman resembled more a queen-regent or the matron of a gaol. Her lips felt very thin indeed on Isabel’s hot cheek.
就在伊莎贝尔回到无人居住的大客厅后，图切特夫人终于出现了。她看起来老了很多，但眼睛一如既往地明亮，头也一如既往地挺直。她薄薄的嘴唇似乎蕴藏着潜在的含义。她穿着一件最朴素的灰色小裙子，伊莎贝尔想知道，就像她第一次想知道的那样，她这位非凡的女亲戚是否更像摄政王或监狱的女主人。她的嘴唇在伊莎贝尔滚烫的脸颊上确实感觉很薄。

‘I’ve kept you waiting because I’ve been sitting with Ralph,’ Mrs. Touchett said. ‘The nurse had gone to luncheon and I had taken her place. He has a man who’s supposed to look after him, but the man’s good for nothing; he’s always looking out of the window if there were anything to see! I didn’t wish to move, because Ralph seemed to be sleeping and I was afraid the sound would disturb him. I waited till the nurse came back. I remembered you knew the house.’
“我让你久等了，因为我一直和拉尔夫坐在一起，”图切特夫人说。 “护士去吃午饭了，我代替了她。他有一个应该照顾他的男人，但这个男人一无是处；如果有什么可看的，他总是看着窗外！我不想动，因为拉尔夫似乎正在睡觉，我担心声音会打扰他。我一直等到护士回来。我记得你认识这栋房子。”

‘I find I know it better even than I thought; I’ve been walking everywhere,’ Isabel answered. And then she asked if Ralph slept much.
“我发现我比我想象的更了解它；我到处都是步行，”伊莎贝尔回答道。然后她问拉尔夫睡得多吗？

‘He lies with his eyes closed; he doesn’t move. But I’m not sure that it’s always sleep.’
‘他闭着眼睛躺着；他一动不动。但我不确定它是否总是在睡觉。

‘Will he see me? Can he speak to me?’
‘他会看见我吗？他能跟我说话吗？

Mrs. Touchett declined the office of saying. ‘You can try him,’ was the limit of her extravagance. And then she offered to conduct Isabel to her room. ‘I thought they had taken you there; but it’s not my house, it’s Ralph’s; and I don’t know what they do. They must at least have taken your luggage; I don’t suppose you’ve brought much. Not that I care, however. I believe they’ve given you the same room you had before; when Ralph heard you were coming he said you must have that one.’
塔切特夫人拒绝透露此事。 “你可以试试他。”这是她奢侈的极限。然后她提出带伊莎贝尔去她的房间。 “我以为他们带你去了那里；但这不是我的房子，而是拉尔夫的；我不知道他们做什么。他们至少必须拿走了你的行李；我想你带的东西并不多。不过，我并不关心。我相信他们给了你以前住过的房间；当拉尔夫听说你要来时，他说你必须拥有那个。

‘Did he say anything else?’
“他还说了什么吗？”

‘Ah, my dear, he doesn’t chatter as he used!’ cried Mrs. Touchett as she preceded her niece up the staircase.
“啊，亲爱的，他不再像以前那样喋喋不休了！”图切特太太在她侄女前面走上楼梯时喊道。

It was the same room, and something told Isabel it had not been slept in since she occupied it. Her luggage was there and was not voluminous; Mrs. Touchett sat down a moment with her eyes upon it. ‘Is there really no hope?’ our young woman asked as she stood before her.
这是同一个房间，有什么东西告诉伊莎贝尔，自从她住进去以来，这个房间就没有人睡过。她的行李在那儿，而且并不大；图切特夫人坐了一会儿，眼睛盯着它。 “真的没有希望了吗？”我们的年轻女子站在她面前问道。

‘None whatever. There never has been. It has not been a successful life.’
‘什么都没有。从来没有过。这并不是一个成功的生活。

‘No-it has only been a beautiful one.’ Isabel found herself already contradicting her aunt; she was irritated by her dryness.
“不——这只是一件美丽的事。”伊莎贝尔发现自己已经在反驳她的姨妈了。她对自己的干燥感到恼火。

‘I don’t know what you mean by that; there’s no beauty without health.
“我不知道你的意思；没有健康就没有美丽。

That is a very odd dress to travel in.’
这是一件非常奇怪的衣服去旅行。”

Isabel glanced at her garment. ‘I left Rome at an hour’s notice; I took the first that came.’
伊莎贝尔看了一眼她的衣服。 “我提前一小时通知就离开了罗马；我拿了第一个来的。

‘Your sisters, in America, wished to know how you dress. That seemed to be their principal interest. I wasn’t able to tell them-but they seemed to have the right idea: that you never wear anything less than black brocade.’
“你在美国的姐妹们想知道你的着装。这似乎是他们的主要兴趣。我无法告诉他们，但他们似乎有正确的想法：你永远不能穿黑色锦缎以外的衣服。

‘They think I’m more brilliant than I am; I’m afraid to tell them the truth,’ said Isabel. ‘Lily wrote me you had dined with her.’
“他们认为我比实际情况更聪明；我不敢告诉他们真相，”伊莎贝尔说。 “莉莉写信给我说你和她一起吃过饭。”

‘She invited me four times, and I went once. After the second time she should have let me alone. The dinner was very good; it must have been expensive. Her husband has a very bad manner. Did I enjoy my visit to America? Why should I have enjoyed it? I didn’t go for my pleasure.’
“她邀请了我四次，我去了一次。第二次之后她就应该放过我了。晚餐非常好；它一定很贵。她丈夫的态度非常不好。我的美国之行愉快吗？为什么我应该享受它？我不是为了自己的快乐而去的。

These were interesting items, but Mrs. Touchett soon left her niece, whom she was to meet in half an hour at the midday meal. For this repast the two ladies faced each other at an abbreviated table in the melancholy dining-room. Here, after a little, Isabel saw her aunt not to be so dry as she appeared, and her old pity for the poor woman’s inexpressiveness, her want of regret, of disappointment, came back to her. Unmistakeably she would have found it a blessing to-day to be able to feel a defeat, a mistake, even a shame or two. She wondered if she were not even missing those enrichments of consciousness and privately trying-reaching out for some aftertaste of life, dregs of the banquet; the testimony of pain or the cold recreation of remorse. On the other hand perhaps she was afraid; if she should begin to know remorse at all it might take her too far. Isabel could perceive, however, how it had come over her dimly that she had failed of something, that she saw herself in the future as an old woman without memories. Her little sharp face looked tragical. She told her niece that Ralph had as yet not moved, but that he probably would be able to see her before dinner. And then in a moment she added that he had seen Lord Warburton the day before; an announcement which startled Isabel a little, as it seemed an intimation that this personage was in the neighbourhood and that an accident might bring them together. Such an accident would not be happy; she had not come to England to struggle again with Lord Warburton. She none the less presently said to her aunt that he had been very kind to Ralph; she had seen something of that in Rome.
这些都是有趣的事情，但图切特夫人很快就离开了她的侄女，半小时后她将在午餐时与她见面。这顿饭，两位女士在忧郁的餐厅里一张简陋的桌子上面对面。过了一会儿，伊莎贝尔发现她的姨妈并不像她看上去那样干巴巴的，她以前对这个可怜的女人的沉默寡言的怜悯，她不想后悔和失望的感觉又回来了。毫无疑问，如果她今天能够感受到失败、错误，甚至是一两次耻辱，她会觉得这是一件幸事。她想知道她是否怀念那些意识的丰富和私下的尝试——伸手去品尝生活的余味，宴会的残渣；痛苦的见证或悔恨的冰冷再现。另一方面，也许她害怕；也许她害怕。如果她开始后悔的话，她可能会走得太远。然而，伊莎贝尔可以察觉到，她隐隐约约地意识到自己在某件事上失败了，她认为未来的自己是一个没有记忆的老妇人。她那张尖尖的小脸看起来很悲惨。她告诉侄女，拉尔夫还没有搬家，但他可能会在晚饭前见到她。过了一会儿，她又补充说，他前一天见过沃伯顿勋爵。这个消息让伊莎贝尔有点吃惊，因为这似乎是在暗示这个人物就在附近，一场意外可能会让他们聚在一起。这样的意外不会让人高兴；她来到英国并不是为了再次与沃伯顿勋爵斗争。尽管如此，她还是对她姑姑说，他对拉尔夫非常友善。她在罗马见过这样的事。

‘He has something else to think of now,’ Mrs. Touchett returned. And she paused with a gaze like a gimlet.
“他现在有别的事情要考虑，”图切特夫人回答道。她停了下来，目光像钻头一样。

Isabel saw she meant something, and instantly guessed what she meant. But her reply concealed her guess; her heart beat faster and she wished to gain a moment. ‘Ah yes-the House of Lords and all that.’
伊莎贝尔看出她的意思，立刻猜到了她的意思。但她的回答掩盖了她的猜测；她的心跳加快，她希望能争取到一点时间。 “啊，是的——上议院等等。”

‘He’s not thinking of the Lords; he’s thinking of the ladies. At least he’s thinking of one of them; he told Ralph he’s engaged to be married.’
“他没有想到上议院；他想到的是上议院。”他在想女士们。至少他正在考虑其中的一个；他告诉拉尔夫他已经订婚了。”

‘Ah, to be married!’ Isabel mildly exclaimed.
“啊，要结婚了！”伊莎贝尔温和地喊道。

‘Unless he breaks it off. He seemed to think Ralph would like to know. Poor Ralph can’t go to the wedding, though I believe it’s to take place very soon.’
‘除非他把它打破。他似乎认为拉尔夫想知道。可怜的拉尔夫不能去参加婚礼，尽管我相信婚礼很快就会举行。

‘And who’s the young lady?’
“那位年轻女士是谁？”

‘A member of the aristocracy; Lady Flora, Lady Felicia-something of that sort.’
‘贵族成员；弗洛拉女士、费利西亚女士——诸如此类。

‘I’m very glad,’ Isabel said. ‘It must be a sudden decision.’
“我很高兴，”伊莎贝尔说。 “这一定是一个突然的决定。”

‘Sudden enough, I believe; a courtship of three weeks. It has only just been made public.’
“我相信，这太突然了；为期三周的求爱它刚刚被公开。

‘I’m very glad,’ Isabel repeated with a larger emphasis. She knew her aunt was watching her-looking for the signs of some imputed soreness, and the desire to prevent her companion from seeing anything of this kind enabled her to speak in the tone of quick satisfaction, the tone almost of relief. Mrs. Touchett of course followed the tradition that ladies, even married ones, regard the marriage of their old lovers as an offence to themselves. Isabel’s first care therefore was to show that however that might be in general she was not offended now. But meanwhile, as I say, her heart beat faster; and if she sat for some moments thoughtful-she presently forgot Mrs. Touchett’s observation-it was not because she had lost an admirer. Her imagination had traversed half Europe; it halted, panting, and even trembling a little, in the city of Rome. She figured herself announcing to her husband that Lord Warburton was to lead a bride to the altar, and she was of course not aware how extremely wan she must have looked while she made this intellectual effort. But at last she collected herself and said to her aunt: ‘He was sure to do it some time or other.’
“我很高兴，”伊莎贝尔更加强调地重复道。她知道姨妈正在注视着她——寻找某种被认为是疼痛的迹象，而为了防止她的同伴看到这种情况，她用一种很快满意的语气说话，语气几乎是松了口气。塔切特夫人当然遵循这样的传统：女士们，即使是已婚女士，也会认为旧情人的婚姻是对自己的冒犯。因此，伊莎贝尔首先关心的是要表明，无论总体情况如何，她现在并没有被冒犯。但与此同时，正如我所说，她的心跳加快了；她的心跳加快了。如果她坐了一会儿沉思——她很快就忘记了图切特夫人的观察——那并不是因为她失去了一个仰慕者。她的想象力已经穿越了半个欧洲；它在罗马城停了下来，气喘吁吁，甚至有点颤抖。她想象自己向丈夫宣布沃伯顿勋爵将带领一位新娘走向圣坛，她当然没有意识到，当她做出这种智力上的努力时，她看起来有多苍白。但最后她镇定下来，对姨妈说：“他迟早肯定会这么做的。”

Mrs. Touchett was silent; then she gave a sharp little shake of the head.
塔切特夫人沉默了。然后她猛烈地摇了摇头。

‘Ah, my dear, you’re beyond me!’ she cried suddenly. They went on with their luncheon in silence; Isabel felt as if she had heard of Lord Warburton’s death. She had known him only as a suitor, and now that was all over. He was dead for poor Pansy; by Pansy he might have lived. A servant had been hovering about; at last Mrs. Touchett requested him to leave them alone. She had finished her meal; she sat with her hands folded on the edge of the table. ‘I should like to ask you three questions,’ she observed when the servant had gone.
“啊，亲爱的，你超出了我的范围！”她突然喊道。他们默默地继续吃午饭。伊莎贝尔感觉自己好像听说了沃伯顿勋爵的死讯。她只把他当作追求者认识，现在一切都结束了。他为可怜的潘西而死；靠着潘西，他可能还活着。一名仆人在周围徘徊；最后，图切特夫人请求他别打扰他们。她已经吃完饭了；她双手交叉放在桌边坐着。 “我想问你三个问题，”仆人走后她说道。

‘Three are a great many.’
“三个已经很多了。”

‘I can’t do with less; I’ve been thinking. They’re all very good ones.’
“我不能少用；我一直在想。他们都是非常好的人。

‘That’s what I’m afraid of. The best questions are the worst,’ Isabel answered. Mrs. Touchett had pushed back her chair, and as her niece left the table and walked, rather consciously, to one of the deep windows, she felt herself followed by her eyes.
‘这就是我所害怕的。最好的问题也是最糟糕的。”伊莎贝尔回答道。图切特夫人把椅子往后推了推，当她的侄女离开桌子，相当有意识地走到一扇深窗前时，她感觉自己的眼睛跟着她。

‘Have you ever been sorry you didn’t marry Lord Warburton?’ Mrs.
“你有没有后悔过没有嫁给沃伯顿勋爵？”

Touchett enquired.
塔切特问道。

Isabel shook her head slowly, but not heavily. ‘No, dear aunt.’
伊莎贝尔慢慢地摇摇头，但摇得并不重。 “不，亲爱的阿姨。”

‘Good. I ought to tell you that I propose to believe what you say.’
'好的。我应该告诉你，我打算相信你所说的。

‘Your believing me’s an immense temptation,’ she declared, smiling still.
“你相信我是一个巨大的诱惑，”她微笑着宣称。

‘A temptation to lie? I don’t recommend you to do that, for when I’m misinformed I’m as dangerous as a poisoned rat. I don’t mean to crow over you.’
‘撒谎的诱惑？我不建议你这样做，因为当我被误导时，我就像一只中毒的老鼠一样危险。我并不想夸奖你。

‘It’s my husband who doesn’t get on with me,’ said Isabel.
“是我丈夫跟我合不来，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘I could have told him he wouldn’t. I don’t call that crowing over you,’ Mrs. Touchett added. ‘Do you still like Serena Merle?’ she went on.
“我本可以告诉他他不会的。我不认为这是对你的夸奖，”图切特夫人补充道。 “你还喜欢瑟琳娜·梅尔吗？”她继续说道。

‘Not as I once did. But it doesn’t matter, for she’s going to America.’
‘不像我以前那样。但这并不重要，因为她要去美国。”

‘To America? She must have done something very bad.’
‘去美国？她一定做了一些非常糟糕的事情。

‘Yes-very bad.’
“是的——非常糟糕。”

‘May I ask what it is?’
“请问那是什么？”

‘She made a convenience of me.’
“她给我带来了便利。”

‘Ah,’ cried Mrs. Touchett, ‘so she did of me! She does of every one.’
“啊，”图切特太太叫道，“她就是这样对待我的！”她对每一个人都如此。

‘She’ll make a convenience of America,’ said Isabel, smiling again and glad that her aunt’s questions were over.
“她会给美国带来便利。”伊莎贝尔再次微笑着说道，很高兴姨妈的问题结束了。

It was not till the evening that she was able to see Ralph. He had been dozing all day; at least he had been lying unconscious. The doctor was there, but after a while went away-the local doctor, who had attended his father and whom Ralph liked. He came three or four times a day; he was deeply interested in his patient. Ralph had had Sir Matthew Hope, but he had got tired of this celebrated man, to whom he had asked his mother to send word he was now dead and was therefore without further need of medical advice. Mrs. Touchett had simply written to Sir Matthew that her son disliked him. On the day of Isabel’s arrival Ralph gave no sign, as I have related, for many hours; but toward evening he raised himself and said he knew that she had come. How he knew was not apparent, inasmuch as for fear of exciting him no one had offered the information. Isabel came in and sat by his bed in the dim light; there was only a shaded candle in a corner of the room. She told the nurse she might he herself would sit with him for the rest of the evening. He had opened his eyes and recognized her, and had moved his hand, which lay helpless beside him, so that she might take it. But he was unable to speak; he closed his eyes again and remained perfectly still, only keeping her hand in his own. She sat with him a long time-till the nurse came back; but he gave no further sign. He might have passed away while she looked at him; he was already the figure and pattern of death. She had thought him far gone in Rome, and this was worse; there was but one change possible now. There was a strange tranquillity in his face; it was as still as the lid of a box. With this he was a mere lattice of bones; when he opened his eyes to greet her it was as if she were looking into immeasurable space. It was not till midnight that the nurse came back; but the hours, to Isabel, had not seemed long; it was exactly what she had come for. If she had come simply to wait she found ample occasion, for he lay three days in a kind of grateful silence. He recognized her and at moments seemed to wish to speak; but he found no voice. Then he closed his eyes again, as if he too were waiting for something-for something that certainly would come. He was so absolutely quiet that it seemed to her what was coming had already arrived; and yet she never lost the sense that they were still together. But they were not always together; there were other hours that she passed in wandering through the empty house and listening for a voice that was not poor Ralph’s. She had a constant fear; she thought it possible her husband would write to her. But he remained silent, and she only got a letter from Florence and from the Countess Gemini. Ralph, however, spoke at last-on the evening of the third day.
直到晚上她才见到拉尔夫。他一整天都在打瞌睡。至少他一直躺在那里不省人事。医生在那里，但过了一会儿就离开了——当地的医生，曾为他父亲看病，拉尔夫很喜欢他。他一天来三四次。他对他的病人很感兴趣。拉尔夫生下了马修·霍普爵士，但他已经厌倦了这位著名的人物，他让他的母亲向他传达他已经死了的消息，因此不需要进一步的医疗建议。塔切特夫人只是写信给马修爵士说她的儿子不喜欢他。正如我所说，伊莎贝尔抵达当天，拉尔夫好几个小时都没有做出任何表示。但到了晚上，他站了起来，说他知道她来了。他是如何知道的并不清楚，因为担心激怒他，没有人提供这一信息。伊莎贝尔走进来，在昏暗的灯光下坐在他的床边。房间的一角只有一支遮荫的蜡烛。她告诉护士，她可能会亲自陪着他度过余下的晚上。他睁开眼睛，认出了她，并移动了无助地放在他身边的手，以便她握住它。但他无法说话；他再次闭上眼睛，一动不动，只握着她的手。她陪着他坐了很长时间——直到护士回来。但他没有给出进一步的迹象。当她看着他的时候，他可能已经去世了。他已经是死亡的形象和模式。她原以为他已经远在罗马了，而这更糟。现在只有一处可能发生改变。他的脸上有一种奇怪的平静。四周一片寂静，就像盒子的盖子一样。这样一来，他就只剩下骨头了。当他睁开眼睛迎接她时，她仿佛看到了无边无际的太空。 直到半夜，护士才回来。但对于伊莎贝尔来说，时间并不长。这正是她来这里的目的。如果她只是来等待的话，她找到了充足的机会，因为他在一种感激的沉默中躺了三天。他认出了她，有时似乎想说话。但他没有发现任何声音。然后他又闭上了眼睛，仿佛他也在等待着什么——等待着一定会到来的东西。他是如此的安静，以至于在她看来，即将到来的事情已经到来了。但她从未失去他们仍然在一起的感觉。但他们并不总是在一起。还有一些时间，她在空荡荡的房子里徘徊，寻找不是可怜的拉尔夫的声音。她始终心存恐惧；她认为她的丈夫可能会写信给她。但他保持沉默，她只收到了佛罗伦萨和双子伯爵夫人的来信。然而，拉尔夫终于在第三天晚上开口说话了。

‘I feel better to-night,’ he murmured, abruptly, in the soundless dimness of her vigil; ‘I think I can say something.’ She sank upon her knees beside his pillow; took his thin hand in her own; begged him not to make an effort-not to tire himself. His face was of necessity serious-it was incapable of the muscular play of a smile; but its owner apparently had not lost a perception of incongruities. ‘What does it matter if I’m tired when I’ve all eternity to rest? There’s no harm in making an effort when it’s the very last of all. Don’t people always feel better just before the end? I’ve often heard of that; it’s what I was waiting for. Ever since you’ve been here I thought it would come. I tried two or three times; I was afraid you’d get tired of sitting there.’ He spoke slowly, with painful breaks and long pauses; his voice seemed to come from a distance. When he ceased he lay with his face turned to Isabel and his large unwinking eyes open into her own. ‘It was very good of you to come,’ he went on. ‘I thought you would; but I wasn’t sure.’
“今晚我感觉好多了，”在她守夜的无声昏暗中，他突然低声说道。 “我想我可以说点什么。”她跪在他的枕头边。她握住他瘦弱的手；恳求他不要费力——不要让自己疲惫不堪。他的脸必然是严肃的——肌肉发达，无法微笑。但它的主人显然并没有失去对不协调的感觉。 ‘当我有永恒的休息时间时，如果我累了又有什么关系呢？当最后的努力时，做出努力并没有什么坏处。人们不是总是在结束之前感觉更好吗？我经常听说这个；这就是我一直在等待的。自从你来到这里，我就以为它会来。我试了两三次； “我担心你会厌倦坐在那里。”他说话很慢，中间有痛苦的停顿和长时间的停顿。他的声音似乎是从远处传来的。当他停下来时，他脸转向伊莎贝尔，睁着大眼睛，一眨不眨地看着她的眼睛。 “你能来真是太好了，”他继续说道。 “我以为你会的；但我不确定。

‘I was not sure either till I came,’ said Isabel.
“我来之前也不确定，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘You’ve been like an angel beside my bed. You know they talk about the angel of death. It’s the most beautiful of all. You’ve been like that; as if you were waiting for me.’
“你就像我床边的天使。你知道他们谈论死亡天使。这是最美丽的。你一直都是这样；就像你在等我一样。

‘I was not waiting for your death; I was waiting for-for this. This is not death, dear Ralph.’
‘我不是在等待你的死亡；我一直在等待——等待这个。这不是死亡，亲爱的拉尔夫。”

‘Not for you-no. There’s nothing makes us feel so much alive as to see others die. That’s the sensation of life-the sense that we remain. I’ve had it-even I. But now I’m of no use but to give it to others. With me it’s all over.’ And then he paused. Isabel bowed her head further, till it rested on the two hands that were clasped upon his own. She couldn’t see him now; but his far-away voice was close to her ear. ‘Isabel,’ he went on suddenly, ‘I wish it were over for you.’ She answered nothing; she had burst into sobs; she remained so, with her buried face. He lay silent, listening to her sobs; at last he gave a long groan. ‘Ah, what is it you have done for me?’
‘不适合你——不。没有什么比看到别人死去更让我们感到自己还活着。这就是生命的感觉——我们依然存在的感觉。我曾经拥有过——连我自己也拥有过。但现在我除了把它给别人之外没有任何用处。对我来说，一切都结束了。”然后他停了下来。伊莎贝尔进一步低下头，直到头靠在他紧握的两只手上。现在她看不到他了。但他远方的声音却近在她耳边。 “伊莎贝尔，”他突然继续说道，“我希望你的一切都结束了。”她什么也没回答。她突然抽泣起来。她依然如此，埋着脸。他静静地躺着，听着她的抽泣。最后他发出一声长长的呻吟。 “啊，你为我做了什么？”

‘What is it you did for me?’ she cried, her now extreme agitation half smothered by her attitude. She had lost all her shame, all wish to hide things. Now he must know; she wished him to know, for it brought them supremely together, and he was beyond the reach of pain. ‘You did something once-you know it. O Ralph, you’ve been everything! What have I done for you-what can I do to-day? I would die if you could live. But I don’t wish you to live; I would die myself, not to lose you.’ Her voice was as broken as his own and full of tears and anguish.
“你为我做了什么？”她喊道，她的态度掩盖了她现在极度的焦躁。她已经失去了所有的羞耻感，所有想隐藏的事情。现在他必须知道了；她希望他知道，因为这让他们无比团结，而他也不再承受痛苦。 “你曾经做过某件事——你知道的。噢，拉尔夫，你就是一切！我为你做了什么——今天我能做什么？如果你能活下去，我会死。但我不希望你活着； “我宁愿死，也不愿失去你。”她的声音和他自己一样破碎，充满了泪水和痛苦。

‘You won’t lose me-you’ll keep me. Keep me in your heart; I shall be nearer to you than I’ve ever been. Dear Isabel, life is better; for in life there’s love. Death is good-but there’s no love.’
‘你不会失去我——你会留住我。把我放在心里；我将比以往任何时候都更接近你。亲爱的伊莎贝尔，生活更美好；因为生活中有爱。死亡是好事，但没有爱。”

‘I never thanked you-I never spoke-I never was what I should be!’
“我从来没有感谢过你——我从来没有说过话——我从来没有成为我应该成为的人！”

Isabel went on. She felt a passionate need to cry out and accuse herself, to let her sorrow possess her. All her troubles, for the moment, became single and melted together into this present pain. ‘What must you have thought of me? Yet how could I know? I never knew, and I only know to-day because there are people less stupid than I.’
伊莎贝尔继续说道。她强烈地需要哭泣并指责自己，让悲伤占据她的身体。她所有的烦恼，在这一刻，都化作了单一，融入了眼前的痛苦之中。 ‘你一定对我有什么看法？但我怎么知道呢？我从来不知道，直到今天我才知道，因为有人比我更愚蠢。”

‘Don’t mind people,’ said Ralph. ‘I think I’m glad to leave people.’
“别介意别人，”拉尔夫说。 “我想我很高兴离开人们。”

She raised her head and her clasped hands; she seemed for a moment to pray to him.
她抬起头，双手紧握；有那么一刻，她似乎在向他祈祷。

‘Is it true-is it true?’ she asked.
“这是真的吗——这是真的吗？”她问道。

‘True that you’ve been stupid? Oh no,’ said Ralph with a sensible intention of wit.
‘你真的很蠢吗？哦不，”拉尔夫带着明智的机智说道。

‘That you made me rich-that all I have is yours?’
“你让我变得富有——我拥有的一切都是你的？”

He turned away his head, and for some time said nothing. Then at last: ‘Ah, don’t speak of that-that was not happy.’ Slowly he moved his face toward her again, and they once more saw each other. ‘But for that-but for that-!’ And he paused. ‘I believe I ruined you,’ he wailed.
他转过头去，一时间没有说话。最后：“啊，别说这个了——那不快乐。”他慢慢地将脸转向她，他们再次看到了对方。 “但是为了那个——但是为了那个——！”他停了下来。 “我相信我毁了你，”他哀嚎道。

She was full of the sense that he was beyond the reach of pain; he seemed already so little of this world. But even if she had not had it she would still have spoken, for nothing mattered now but the only knowledge that was not pure anguish-the knowledge that they were looking at the truth together. ‘He married me for the money,’ she said. She wished to say everything; she was afraid he might die before she had done so.
她心里充满了这样的感觉：他不受痛苦的影响。他似乎已经与这个世界格格不入了。但即使她没有得到它，她仍然会说话，因为现在什么都不重要了，除了唯一不纯粹的痛苦的知识——他们正在一起看待真相的知识。 “他嫁给我是为了钱，”她说。她想把一切都说出来；她担心他可能会在她这么做之前就死掉。

He gazed at her a little, and for the first time his fixed eyes lowered their lids. But he raised them in a moment, and then, ‘He was greatly in love with you,’ he answered.
他凝视了她一会儿，他那双固定的眼睛第一次垂下了眼睑。但他很快就把它们举了起来，然后，“他非常爱你，”他回答道。

‘Yes, he was in love with me. But he wouldn’t have married me if I had been poor. I don’t hurt you in saying that. How can I? I only want you to understand. I always tried to keep you from understanding; but that’s all over.’
‘是的，他爱上了我。但如果我很穷，他就不会娶我。我这么说并没有伤害你。我怎么能够？我只想让你明白。我总是试图不让你理解；但一切都结束了。

‘I always understood,’ said Ralph.
“我一直都明白，”拉尔夫说。

‘I thought you did, and I didn’t like it. But now I like it.’
“我以为你会这么做，但我不喜欢这样。但现在我喜欢它。

‘You don’t hurt me-you make me very happy.’ And as Ralph said this there was an extraordinary gladness in his voice. She bent her head again, and pressed her lips to the back of his hand. ‘I always understood,’ he continued, ‘though it was so strange-so pitiful. You wanted to look at life for yourself-but you were not allowed; you were punished for your wish. You were ground in the very mill of the conventional!’
“你没有伤害我——你让我很开心。”拉尔夫说这句话的时候，他的声音里带着一种异常的高兴。她再次低下头，将嘴唇压在他的手背上。 “我一直能理解，”他继续说道，“尽管这很奇怪——很可怜。你想亲自审视生活——但你不被允许；你因为你的愿望而受到惩罚。你是在传统的磨坊里被磨碎的！

‘Oh yes, I’ve been punished,’ Isabel sobbed.
“哦，是的，我受到了惩罚，”伊莎贝尔抽泣着。

He listened to her a little, and then continued: ‘Was he very bad about your coming?’
他听了她一会儿，然后继续说道：“他对你的到来感到很不高兴吗？”

‘He made it very hard for me. But I don’t care.’
“他让我很难受。但我不在乎。

‘It is all over then between you?’
“你们之间就这样结束了吗？”

‘Oh no; I don’t think anything’s over.’
'不好了;我认为一切都还没有结束。

‘Are you going back to him?’ Ralph gasped.
“你要回到他身边吗？”拉尔夫喘着气说道。

‘I don’t know-I can’t tell. I shall stay here as long as I may. I don’t want to think-I needn’t think. I don’t care for anything but you, and that’s enough for the present. It will last a little yet. Here on my knees, with you dying in my arms, I’m happier than I have been for a long time. And I want you to be happy-not to think of anything sad; only to feel that I’m near you and I love you. Why should there be pain? In such hours as this what have we to do with pain? That’s not the deepest thing; there’s something deeper.’
“我不知道——我说不出来。我会尽可能长时间地留在这里。我不想思考——我不需要思考。除了你，我什么都不关心，目前就足够了。还会持续一段时间。我跪在地上，看着你在我怀里死去，我已经很久没有这么幸福了。我希望你快乐——不要去想任何悲伤的事情；只是为了感觉到我在你身边并且我爱你。为什么会有疼痛？在这样的时刻，我们与痛苦有什么关系呢？这还不是最深的事情；而是最深的事情。还有更深层次的东西。

Ralph evidently found from moment to moment greater difficulty in speaking; he had to wait longer to collect himself. At first he appeared to make no response to these last words; he let a long time elapse. Then he murmured simply: ‘You must stay here.’
拉尔夫显然发现说话时时变得更加困难。他不得不等待更长的时间才能恢复平静。起初，他似乎对这最后一句话没有做出任何回应。他等了很长时间。然后他简单地低声说道：“你必须留在这里。”

‘I should like to stay-as long as seems right.’
“我想留下来——只要看起来合适。”

‘As seems right-as seems right?’ He repeated her words. ‘Yes, you think a great deal about that.’
“看起来是对的——看起来是对的？”他重复了她的话。 “是的，你对此想得很多。”

‘Of course one must. You’re very tired,’ said Isabel.
‘当然必须。你很累了，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘I’m very tired. You said just now that pain’s not the deepest thing. No-no. But it’s very deep. If I could stay-.’
'我很累。你刚才说痛苦不是最深的东西。不，不。但它非常深。如果我能留下来——”

‘For me you’ll always be here,’ she softly interrupted. It was easy to interrupt him.
“对我来说，你永远都在这里。”她轻声打断道。打断他很容易。

But he went on, after a moment: ‘It passes, after all; it’s passing now. But love remains. I don’t know why we should suffer so much. Perhaps I shall find out. There are many things in life. You’re very young.’
但过了一会儿，他继续说道：“毕竟，一切都过去了；”现在已经过去了。但爱依然存在。我不知道为什么我们要受这么多苦。也许我会找到答案。生活中有很多事情。你还很年轻。

‘I feel very old,’ said Isabel.
“我感觉自己很老了，”伊莎贝尔说。

‘You’ll grow young again. That’s how I see you. I don’t believe-I don’t believe-’ But he stopped again; his strength failed him.
‘你会再次变年轻的。我就是这样看你的。我不相信——我不相信——”但他又停了下来；他的力量失败了。

She begged him to be quiet now. ‘We needn’t speak to understand each other,’ she said.
她恳求他现在安静点。 “我们不需要说话就能互相理解，”她说。

‘I don’t believe that such a generous mistake as yours can hurt you for more than a little.’
“我不认为像你这样大方的错误会对你造成多大的伤害。”

‘Oh Ralph, I’m very happy now,’ she cried through her tears.
“哦，拉尔夫，我现在很高兴，”她流着泪哭道。

‘And remember this,’ he continued, ‘that if you’ve been hated you’ve also been loved. Ah but, Isabel-adored!’ he just audibly and lingeringly breathed.
“记住这一点，”他继续说道，“如果你被恨过，那么你也曾被爱过。”啊，可是，伊莎贝尔崇拜的人！”他只是清晰地、悠长地呼吸着。

‘Oh my brother!’ she cried with a movement of still deeper prostration.
“哦，我的兄弟！”她喊道，动作更加虔诚。

Chapter 55
第55章

He had told her, the first evening she ever spent at Gardencourt, that if she should live to suffer enough she might some day see the ghost with which the old house was duly provided. She apparently had fulfilled the necessary condition; for the next morning, in the cold, faint dawn, she knew that a spirit was standing by her bed. She had lain down without undressing, it being her belief that Ralph would not outlast the night. She had no inclination to sleep; she was waiting, and such waiting was wakeful. But she closed her eyes; she believed that as the night wore on she should hear a knock at her door. She heard no knock, but at the time the darkness began vaguely to grow grey she started up from her pillow as abruptly as if she had received a summons. It seemed to her for an instant that he was standing there-a vague, hovering figure in the vagueness of the room. She stared a moment; she saw his white face-his kind eyes; then she saw there was nothing. She was not afraid; she was only sure. She quitted the place and in her certainty passed through dark corridors and down a flight of oaken steps that shone in the vague light of a hall-window. Outside Ralph’s door she stopped a moment, listening, but she seemed to hear only the hush that filled it. She opened the door with a hand as gentle as if she were lifting a veil from the face of the dead, and saw Mrs. Touchett sitting motionless and upright beside the couch of her son, with one of his hands in her own. The doctor was on the other side, with poor Ralph’s further wrist resting in his professional fingers. The two nurses were at the foot between them. Mrs. Touchett took no notice of Isabel, but the doctor looked at her very hard; then he gently placed Ralph’s hand in a proper position, close beside him. The nurse looked at her very hard too, and no one said a word; but Isabel only looked at what she had come to see. It was fairer than Ralph had ever been in life, and there was a strange resemblance to the face of his father, which, six years before, she had seen lying on the same pillow. She went to her aunt and put her arm around her; and Mrs. Touchett, who as a general thing neither invited nor enjoyed caresses, submitted for a moment to this one, rising, as might be, to take it. But she was stiff and dry-eyed; her acute white face was terrible.
她在花园庭院度过的第一个晚上，他就告诉她，如果她能活得足够痛苦，有一天她可能会看到老房子里的鬼魂。显然她已经满足了必要的条件；第二天早上，在寒冷、微弱的黎明中，她知道有一个鬼魂站在她的床边。她没有脱衣服就躺了下来，她相信拉尔夫撑不过今晚。她根本不想睡觉；她根本不想睡觉。她在等待，这样的等待是令人清醒的。但她闭上了眼睛；她相信随着夜幕降临，她应该会听到有人敲门。她没有听到敲门声，但就在黑暗开始隐隐约约变灰的时候，她猛地从枕头上站了起来，就像收到了召唤一样。有那么一瞬间，她觉得他站在那里——一个模糊的、盘旋在房间里的模糊身影。她凝视了一会儿；她看到了他苍白的脸——他慈祥的眼睛；然后她发现什么也没有。她并不害怕；她并不害怕。她只是确定。她离开了这个地方，确信自己穿过黑暗的走廊，走下一段橡木台阶，在大厅窗户的模糊灯光下闪闪发光。在拉尔夫的门外，她停了一会儿，听着，但她似乎只听到了屋子里的寂静。她用一只手轻轻地打开门，就像揭开死者脸上的面纱一样，看到图切特太太一动不动地坐在儿子的沙发旁边，手里握着儿子的一只手。医生在另一边，可怜的拉尔夫的另一只手腕搁在他专业的手指上。两个护士站在他们中间。图切特夫人没有注意到伊莎贝尔，但医生却很认真地看着她。然后他轻轻地将拉尔夫的手放在适当的位置，靠近他。 护士也很认真地看着她，没有人说话。但伊莎贝尔只看了她来此的目的。拉尔夫生前从未见过这样的脸，而且与他父亲的脸有一种奇怪的相似之处，六年前，她曾在同一个枕头上看到过他父亲的脸。她走到姨妈身边，用手臂搂住她。塔切特夫人一般来说既不邀请也不喜欢爱抚，她暂时屈服于这个爱抚，也许是站起来接受它。但她表情僵硬，眼睛干涩。她那张惨白的脸惨不忍睹。

‘Dear Aunt Lydia,’ Isabel murmured.
“亲爱的莉迪亚姨妈，”伊莎贝尔低声说道。

‘Go and thank God you’ve no child,’ said Mrs. Touchett, disengaging herself.
“去吧，感谢上帝，你没有孩子。”图切特夫人说着，脱离了自己。

Three days after this a considerable number of people found time, at the height of the London ‘season,’ to take a morning train down to a quiet station in Berkshire and spend half an hour in a small grey church which stood within an easy walk. It was in the green burial-place of this edifice that Mrs. Touchett consigned her son to earth. She stood herself at the edge of the grave, and Isabel stood beside her; the sexton himself had not a more practical interest in the scene than Mrs. Touchett. It was a solemn occasion, but neither a harsh nor a heavy one; there was a certain geniality in the appearance of things. The weather had changed to fair; the day, one of the last of the treacherous May-time, was warm and windless, and the air had the brightness of the hawthorn and the blackbird. If it was sad to think of poor Touchett, it was not too sad, since death, for him, had had no violence. He had been dying so long; he was so ready; everything had been so expected and prepared. There were tears in Isabel’s eyes, but they were not tears that blinded. She looked through them at the beauty of the day, the splendour of nature, the sweetness of the old English churchyard, the bowed heads of good friends. Lord Warburton was there, and a group of gentlemen all unknown to her, several of whom, as she afterwards learned, were connected with the bank; and there were others whom she knew. Miss Stackpole was among the first, with honest Mr. Bantling beside her; and Caspar Goodwood, lifting his head higher than the rest-bowing it rather less.
三天后，在伦敦“旺季”的高峰期，相当多的人抽出时间乘坐早班火车前往伯克郡一个安静的车站，并在步行不远的一座灰色小教堂里待了半个小时。 。正是在这座大厦的绿色墓地里，图切特夫人将她的儿子托付给了人间。她站在坟墓的边缘，伊莎贝尔站在她旁边。教堂司事本人对这一场景的兴趣并不比图切特夫人更实际。这是一个庄严的场合，但既不严酷也不沉重。事情的表面上有某种和蔼可亲的感觉。天气转晴。这一天是阴险的五月最后一天，天气温暖，无风，空气中充满了山楂树和黑鸟的光芒。如果想到可怜的图切特感到悲伤，那也不算太悲伤，​​因为死亡对他来说并没有暴力。他已经死去很久了；他已经准备好了；一切都是那么的期待和准备。伊莎贝尔眼里含着泪水，但它们并不是失明的泪水。她透过它们看到了今天的美丽、大自然的壮丽、英国古老教堂墓地的甜蜜、好朋友们低下的头。沃伯顿勋爵也在场，还有一群她不认识的绅士，据她后来所知，其中有几位与银行有联系。还有其他一些她认识的人。斯塔克波尔小姐是最先来的，旁边还有诚实的班特林先生。还有卡斯帕·古德伍德，他的头比其他人抬起得更高——低头的次数却少得多。

During much of the time Isabel was conscious of Mr. Goodwood’s gaze; he looked at her somewhat harder than he usually looked in public, while the others had fixed their eyes upon the churchyard turf. But she never let him see that she saw him; she thought of him only to wonder that he was still in England. She found she had taken for granted that after accompanying Ralph to Gardencourt he had gone away; she remembered how little it was a country that pleased him. He was there, however, very distinctly there; and something in his attitude seemed to say that he was there with a complex intention. She wouldn’t meet his eyes, though there was doubtless sympathy in them; he made her rather uneasy. With the dispersal of the little group he disappeared, and the only person who came to speak to her-though several spoke to Mrs. Touchett-was Henrietta Stackpole. Henrietta had been crying.
在大部分时间里，伊莎贝尔都能意识到古德伍德先生的目光。他看着她的眼神比平时在公共场合显得更加严肃，而其他人则把目光集中在教堂墓地的草坪上。但她从来没有让他知道她看见了他；她想起他只是想知道他还在英国。她发现她理所当然地认为，陪拉尔夫到花园庭院后，他就走了；她以为拉尔夫已经离开了。她记得这个国家是多么令他高兴。然而，他就在那儿，非常明显地在那儿。他的态度似乎表明他带着复杂的意图来到这里。她不愿看他的眼睛，尽管他的眼睛里无疑充满了同情。他让她很不安。随着一小群人的散去，他消失了，唯一一个来和她说话的人——尽管有几个人和图切特夫人说话——是亨丽埃塔·斯塔克波尔。亨利埃塔一直在哭。

Ralph had said to Isabel that he hoped she would remain at Gardencourt, and she made no immediate motion to leave the place. She said to herself that it was but common charity to stay a little with her aunt. It was fortunate she had so good a formula; otherwise she might have been greatly in want of one. Her errand was over; she had done what she had left her husband to do. She had a husband in a foreign city, counting the hours of her absence; in such a case one needed an excellent motive. He was not one of the best husbands, but that didn’t alter the case. Certain obligations were involved in the very fact of marriage, and were quite independent of the quantity of enjoyment extracted from it. Isabel thought of her husband as little as might be; but now that she was at a distance, beyond its spell, she thought with a kind of spiritual shudder of Rome. There was a penetrating chill in the image, and she drew back into the deepest shade of Gardencourt. She lived from day to day, postponing, closing her eyes, trying not to think. She knew she must decide, but she decided nothing; her coming itself had not been a decision. On that occasion she had simply started. Osmond gave no sound and now evidently would give none; he would leave it all to her. From Pansy she heard nothing, but that was very simple: her father had told her not to write.
拉尔夫曾对伊莎贝尔说过，他希望她留在花园考特，但她并没有立即离开这个地方。她对自己说，能在姨妈身边待一会儿，只是普通的慈善行为。幸好她有这么好的配方；否则她可能非常需要一个。她的任务结束了；她已经做了她留给丈夫做的事。她的丈夫在异国他乡，数着她不在的时间；在这种情况下，人们需要一个极好的动机。他不是最好的丈夫之一，但这并没有改变情况。婚姻本身就包含了某些义务，并且与从婚姻中获得的享受的数量完全无关。伊莎贝尔尽可能少地想到她的丈夫。但现在她已经远离了它，超出了它的魔力，她带着一种罗马的精神颤抖想道。画面中有一股刺骨的寒意，她退回到花园庭院最深处的阴凉处。她日复一日地生活着，推迟着，闭上眼睛，努力不去思考。她知道自己必须做出决定，但她什么也没决定；她的到来本身并不是一个决定。那次她才刚刚开始。奥斯蒙德没有发出任何声音，现在显然也不会再发出声音了。他会把一切都留给她。她没有从潘西那里听到任何消息，但这很简单：她父亲告诉她不要写信。

Mrs. Touchett accepted Isabel’s company, but offered her no assistance; she appeared to be absorbed in considering, without enthusiasm but with perfect lucidity, the new conveniences of her own situation. Mrs. Touchett was not an optimist, but even from painful -occurrences she managed to extract a certain utility. This consisted in the reflexion that, after all, such things happened to other people and not to herself. Death was disagreeable, but in this case it was her son’s death, not her own; she had never flattered herself that her own would be disagreeable to any one but Mrs. Touchett. She was better off than poor Ralph, who had left all the commodities of life behind him, and indeed all the security; since the worst of dying was, to Mrs. Touchett’s mind, that it exposed one to be taken advantage of. For herself she was on the spot; there was nothing so good as that. She made known to Isabel very punctually-it was the evening her son was buried several of Ralph’s testamentary arrangements. He had told her everything, had consulted her about everything. He left her no money; of course she had no need of money. He left her the furniture of Gardencourt, exclusive of the pictures and books and the use of the place for a year; after which it was to be sold. The money produced by the sale was to constitute an endowment for a hospital for poor persons suffering from the malady of which he died; and of this portion of the will Lord Warburton was appointed executor. The rest of his property, which was to be withdrawn from the bank, was disposed of in various bequests, several of them to those cousins in Vermont to whom his father had already been so bountiful. Then there were a number of small legacies.
图切特夫人接受了伊莎贝尔的陪伴，但没有为她提供任何帮助。她似乎全神贯注地考虑着自己处境带来的新便利，虽然没有热情，但却十分清醒。塔切特夫人并不是一个乐观主义者，但即使是从痛苦的事件中，她也设法获得了一定的效用。这包括这样的反思：毕竟，这样的事情发生在别人身上，而不是发生在她自己身上。死亡是令人不快的，但这次是她儿子的死，而不是她自己的死。她从来没有自以为自己的作品会令除了图切特夫人之外的任何人感到不愉快。她比可怜的拉尔夫过得更好，拉尔夫把所有的生活必需品都抛在了身后，甚至连所有的安全都抛在了身后。因为在图切特夫人看来，死亡最糟糕的就是让一个人被利用。对于她自己来说，她就在现场。没有什么比这更好的了。她非常准时地通知了伊莎贝尔——那天晚上，她的儿子被拉尔夫的几项遗嘱安排安葬了。他把一切都告诉了她，一切都咨询了她。他没有给她留下任何钱；她当然不需要钱。他把花园庭院的家具留给了她，但不包括图画和书籍以及该地方一年的使用权。之后它将被出售。出售所得的钱将捐献给一家医院，为患有他所患疾病的穷人提供医疗服务。沃伯顿勋爵被任命为这部分遗嘱的执行人。他将从银行提取的其余财产被以各种遗赠的方式处理，其中一些遗赠给了佛蒙特州的那些表兄弟，他的父亲已经对他们非常慷慨。然后还有一些小遗产。

‘Some of them are extremely peculiar,’ said Mrs. Touchett; ‘he has left considerable sums to persons I never heard of. He gave me a list, and I asked then who some of them were, and he told me they were people who at various times had seemed to like him. Apparently he thought you didn’t like him, for he hasn’t left you a penny. It was his opinion that you had been handsomely treated by his father, which I’m bound to say I think you were-though I don’t mean that I ever heard him complain of it. The pictures are to be dispersed; he has distributed them about, one by one, as little keepsakes. The most valuable of the collection goes to Lord Warburton. And what do you think he has done with his library? It sounds like a practical joke. He has left it to your friend Miss Stackpole-’in recognition of her services to literature.’ Does he mean her following him up from Rome? Was that a service to literature? It contains a great many rare and valuable books, and as she can’t carry it about the world in her trunk he recommends her to sell it at auction. She will sell it of course at Christie’s, and with the proceeds she’ll set up a newspaper. Will that be a service to literature?’
“其中一些非常奇特，”图切特夫人说。 “他给我从未听说过的人留下了相当大的一笔钱。他给了我一份名单，然后我问其中一些人是谁，他告诉我他们是在不同时期似乎喜欢他的人。显然他认为你不喜欢他，因为他没有给你留下一分钱。他认为你受到了他父亲的优待，我必须说我认为你是这样的——尽管我并不是说我曾听他抱怨过这一点。图片要散开；他把它们一一分发，作为小纪念品。其中最有价值的藏品属于沃伯顿勋爵。你认为他对图书馆做了什么？这听起来像是一个恶作剧。他把它留给了你的朋友斯塔克波尔小姐——“以表彰她对文学的贡献。”他的意思是她从罗马追随他吗？这是对文学的贡献吗？它包含许多稀有且有价值的书籍，由于她无法将其放在行李箱中携带它周游世界，因此他建议她在拍卖会上出售它。她当然会在佳士得拍卖行出售它，并用所得收益创办一份报纸。这会对文学有贡献吗？

This question Isabel forbore to answer, as it exceeded the little interrogatory to which she had deemed it necessary to submit on her arrival. Besides, she had never been less interested in literature than to-day, as she found when she occasionally took down from the shelf one of the rare and valuable volumes of which Mrs. Touchett had spoken. She was quite unable to read; her attention had never been so little at her command. One afternoon, in the library, about a week after the ceremony in the churchyard, she was trying to fix it for an hour; but her eyes often wandered from the book in her hand to the open window, which looked down the long avenue. It was in this way that she saw a modest vehicle approach the door and perceived Lord Warburton sitting, in rather an uncomfortable attitude, in a corner of it. He had always had a high standard of courtesy, and it was therefore not remarkable, under the circumstances, that he should have taken the trouble to come down from London to call on Mrs. Touchett. It was of course Mrs. Touchett he had come to see, and not Mrs. Osmond; and to prove to herself the validity of this thesis Isabel presently stepped out of the house and wandered away into the park. Since her arrival at Gardencourt she had been but little out of doors, the weather being unfavourable for visiting the grounds. This evening, however, was fine, and at first it struck her as a happy thought to have come out. The theory I have just mentioned was plausible enough, but it brought her little rest, and if you had seen her pacing about you would have said she had a bad conscience. She was not pacified when at the end of a quarter of an hour, finding herself in view of the house, she saw Mrs. Touchett emerge from the portico accompanied by her visitor. Her aunt had evidently proposed to Lord Warburton that they should come in search of her. She was in no humour for visitors and, if she had had a chance, would have drawn back behind one of the great trees. But she saw she had been seen and that nothing was left her but to advance. As the lawn at Gardencourt was a vast expanse this took some time; during which she observed that, as he walked beside his hostess, Lord Warburton kept his hands rather stiffly behind him and his eyes upon the ground. Both persons apparently were silent; but Mrs. Touchett’s thin little glance, as she directed it toward Isabel, had even at a distance an expression. It seemed to say with cutting sharpness: ‘Here’s the eminently amenable nobleman you might have married!’ When Lord Warburton lifted his own eyes, however, that was not what they said. They only said ‘This is rather awkward, you know, and I depend upon you to help me.’ He was very grave, very proper and, for the first time since Isabel had known him, greeted her without a smile. Even in his days of distress he had always begun with a smile. He looked extremely self-conscious.
伊莎贝尔没有回答这个问题，因为这超出了她认为在抵达时有必要接受的小小的询问。此外，她对文学的兴趣从来没有像今天这样低过，当她偶尔从书架上取下一本图切特夫人谈到过的稀有而有价值的书时，她就发现了这一点。她根本无法读书。她的注意力从来没有如此分散过。一天下午，在教堂墓地举行的仪式大约一周后，她在图书馆里花了一个小时试图修复它；但她却发现了这一点。但她的目光时常从手中的书转移到打开的窗户上，窗户俯瞰着长长的大道。就这样，她看到一辆朴素的汽车驶近门口，并看到沃伯顿勋爵以一种相当不舒服的态度坐在车的一个角落里。他一向彬彬有礼，因此在这种情况下，他不厌其烦地从伦敦来看望图切特夫人也就不足为奇了。他当然是来见图切特夫人的，而不是奥斯蒙德夫人。为了向自己证明这个论点的正确性，伊莎贝尔走出了房子，漫步到公园里。自从抵达花园庭院以来，她很少出门，因为天气不利于参观花园。然而，今晚天气很好，一开始她觉得这是一个令人高兴的想法。我刚才提到的理论似乎很有道理，但这并没有给她带来多少休息，如果你看到她在你周围踱来踱去，你会说她良心不好。一刻钟后，她发现自己在房子的视野中，看到图切特夫人在访客的陪伴下从门廊中出现，她的心情并没有平静下来。 她的姨妈显然向沃伯顿勋爵提议让他们来寻找她。她对访客没有幽默感，如果有机会，她会退到一棵大树后面。但她发现自己已经被看到了，除了前进之外，她别无选择。由于花园庭院的草坪非常广阔，这需要一些时间。在此期间，她观察到，当沃伯顿勋爵走在女主人身边时，他的双手相当僵硬地放在身后，眼睛盯着地面。两个人显然都沉默了。但是，当图切特夫人朝伊莎贝尔投去的时候，她那淡淡的目光甚至在远处也流露出一种表情。它似乎在尖锐地说道：“这是你可能会嫁给的一位非常顺从的贵族！”然而，当沃伯顿勋爵抬起眼睛时，他们所说的并不是这个。他们只是说：“你知道，这很尴尬，我依靠你来帮助我。”他非常严肃，非常得体，自从伊莎贝尔认识他以来，这是第一次没有微笑地向她打招呼。即使在困难的日子里，他也总是微笑着开始。他看起来非常不自在。

‘Lord Warburton has been so good as to come out to see me,’ said Mrs. Touchett. ‘He tells me he didn’t know you were still here. I know he’s an old friend of yours, and as I was told you were not in the house I brought him out to see for himself.’
“沃伯顿勋爵非常友善，竟然来见我，”图切特夫人说。 “他告诉我他不知道你还在这里。我知道他是你的老朋友，有人告诉我你不在屋子里，所以我带他出去亲自看看。

‘Oh, I saw there was a good train at 6:40, that would get me back in time for dinner,’ Mrs. Touchett’s companion rather irrelevantly explained. ‘I’m so glad to find you’ve not gone.’
“哦，我看到 6 点 40 分有一趟很好的火车，可以让我及时回来吃晚饭。”图切特夫人的同伴语无伦次地解释道。 “我很高兴发现你没有走。”

‘I’m not here for long, you know,’ Isabel said with a certain eagerness.
“你知道，我在这里待的时间并不长，”伊莎贝尔带着某种渴望说道。

‘I suppose not, but I hope it’s for some weeks. You came to England sooner than-a-than you thought?’
“我想不会，但我希望能持续几个星期。你来英国的时间比你想象的要早？

‘Yes, I came very suddenly.’
“是的，我来得很突然。”

Mrs. Touchett turned away as if she was looking at the condition of the grounds, which indeed was not what it should be, while Lord Warburton hesitated a little. Isabel fancied he had been on the point of asking about her husband-rather confusedly-and then had checked himself. He continued immitigably grave, either because he thought it becoming in a place over which death had just passed, or for more personal reasons. If he was conscious of personal reasons it was very fortunate that he had the cover of the former motive; he could make the most of that. Isabel thought of all this. It was not that his face was sad, for that was another matter; but it was strangely inexpressive.
塔切特夫人转过身去，好像在观察场地的状况，这确实不应该是这样，而沃伯顿勋爵则犹豫了一下。伊莎贝尔觉得他正要问起她丈夫的事——相当困惑——然后又克制住了自己。他继续表现得无比严肃，要么是因为他认为这是一个死亡刚刚过去的地方，要么是出于更个人的原因。如果他意识到个人原因，那么很幸运他有前一个动机的掩护。他可以充分利用这一点。伊莎贝尔想到了这一切。他的脸色并不是悲伤，那是另一回事。但奇怪的是，它毫无表情。

‘My sisters would have been so glad to come if they had known you were still here-if they had thought you would see them,’ Lord Warburton went on. ‘Do kindly let them see you before you leave England.’
“如果我的姐妹们知道你还在这里，如果她们认为你会见到她们，她们会很高兴来的，”沃伯顿勋爵继续说道。 “在你离开英格兰之前，请让他们见见你。”

‘It would give me great pleasure; I have such a friendly recollection of them.’
‘这会给我带来极大的快乐；我对他们有如此友好的回忆。

‘I don’t know whether you would come to Lockleigh for a day or two? You know there’s always that old promise.’ And his lordship coloured a little as he made this suggestion, which gave his face a somewhat more familiar air. ‘Perhaps I’m not right in saying that just now; of course you’re not thinking of visiting. But I meant what would hardly be a visit. My sisters are to be at Lockleigh at Whitsuntide for five days; and if you could come then you say you’re not to be very long in England-I would see that there should be literally no one else.’
“我不知道你是否愿意来洛克利一两天？你知道，那个古老的承诺总是存在的。”当他提出这个建议时，大人的脸色微微红了，这让他的脸上显得更加熟悉了。 “也许我刚才说的不太对；你当然不会想到去参观。但我的意思是这根本算不上是一次访问。我的姐妹们将在圣灵降临节的洛克利待五天。如果你能来的话，你会说你不会在英格兰待太久——我会发现那里应该没有其他人了。

Isabel wondered if not even the young lady he was to marry would be there with her mamma; but she did not express this idea. ‘Thank you extremely,’ she contented herself with saying; ‘I’m afraid I hardly know about Whitsuntide.’
伊莎贝尔想知道是不是连他要娶的那位年轻女士也不会和她的妈妈在一起。但她并没有表达这个想法。 “非常感谢你，”她满意地说。 “恐怕我对圣灵降临节几乎一无所知。”

‘But I have your promise-haven’t I?-for some other time.’
“但我得到了你的承诺——不是吗？——再过一次。”

There was an interrogation in this; but Isabel let it pass. She looked at her interlocutor a moment, and the result of her observation was that-M had happened before she felt sorry for him. ‘Take care you don’t miss your train,’ she said. And then she added: ‘I wish you every happiness.’
这其中有一个审问；但伊莎贝尔让它过去了。她看了一眼对话者，观察的结果是——M发生在她为他感到难过之前。 “小心点，不要错过火车，”她说。然后她补充道：“我祝你幸福。”

He blushed again, more than before, and he looked at his watch. ‘Ah yes, 6.40; I haven’t much time, but I’ve a fly at the door. Thank you very much.’ It was not apparent whether the thanks applied to her having reminded him of his train or to the more sentimental remark. ‘Good-bye, Mrs. Osmond; good-bye.’ He shook hands with her, without meeting her eyes, and then he turned to Mrs. Touchett, who had wandered back to them. With her his parting was equally brief; and in a moment the two ladies saw him move with long steps across the lawn.
他又脸红了，比之前更红了，他看了看手表。 ‘啊，是的，6.40；我时间不多，但门口有一只苍蝇。非常感谢你。”不清楚这番感谢是指她让他想起了他的火车，还是指那句更伤感的话。 “再见，奥斯蒙德夫人； “再见。再见。”他与她握手，但没有看她的眼睛，然后转向图切特太太，她已经走到了他们身边。他与她的离别同样短暂。不一会儿，两位女士就看到他迈着大步穿过草坪。

‘Are you very sure he’s to be married?’ Isabel asked of her aunt.
“你确定他要结婚吗？”伊莎贝尔问她的姨妈。

‘I can’t be surer than he; but he seems sure. I congratulated him, and he accepted it.’
“我不能比他更确定；但他似乎很确定。我向他表示祝贺，他接受了。”

‘Ah,’ said Isabel, ‘I give it up!’-while her aunt returned to the house and to those avocations which the visitor had interrupted.
“啊，”伊莎贝尔说，“我放弃了！”这时她的姨妈回到了家里，开始了那些被来访者打断的爱好。

She gave it up, but she still thought of it-thought of it while she strolled again under the great oaks whose shadows were long upon the acres of turf. At the end of a few minutes she found herself near a rustic bench, which, a moment after she had looked at it, struck her as an object recognized. It was not simply that she had seen it before, nor even that she had sat upon it; it was that on this spot something important had happened to her-that the place had an air of association. Then she remembered that she had been sitting there, six years before, when a servant brought her from the house the letter in which Caspar Goodwood informed her that he had followed her to Europe; and that when she had read the letter she looked up to hear Lord Warburton announcing that he should like to marry her. It was indeed an historical, an interesting, bench; she stood and looked at it as if it might have something to say to her. She wouldn’t sit down on it now-she felt rather afraid of it. She only stood before it, and while she stood the past came back to her in one of those rushing waves of emotion by which persons of sensibility are visited at odd hours. The effect of this agitation was a sudden sense of being very tired, under the influence of which she overcame her scruples and sank into the rustic seat. I have said that she was restless and unable to occupy herself; and whether or no, if you had seen her there, you would have admired the justice of the former epithet, you would at least have allowed that at this moment she was the image of a victim of idleness. Her attitude had a singular absence of purpose; her hands, hanging at her sides, lost themselves in the folds of her black dress; her eyes gazed vaguely before her. There was nothing to recall her to the house; the two ladies, in their seclusion, dined early and had tea at an indefinite hour. How long she had sat in this position she could not have told you; but the twilight had grown thick when she became aware that she was not alone. She quickly straightened herself, glancing about, and then saw what had become of her solitude. She was sharing it with Caspar Goodwood, who stood looking at her, a few yards off, and whose footfall on the unresonant turf, as he came near, she had not heard. It occurred to her in the midst of this that it was just so Lord Warburton had surprised her of old.
她放弃了，但她仍然想起了这件事——当她再次漫步在大橡树下时，她想起了这件事，橡树的影子在大片草坪上留下了长长的影子。几分钟后，她发现自己靠近一张质朴的长凳，在她看过它之后不久，她就意识到这是一个被认出的物体。不仅仅是因为她以前见过它，甚至也不是因为她坐在上面；而是因为她以前见过它。正是在这个地方，她发生了一件重要的事情——这个地方有一种联想的气氛。然后她记起六年前，她曾坐在那里，当时一名仆人从屋里给她带来了一封信，卡斯帕·古德伍德在信中告诉她，他已跟随她去了欧洲；然后她想起了她的父亲。当她读完这封信后，她抬头听到沃伯顿勋爵宣布他想娶她。这确实是一张历史悠久、有趣的长凳。她站起来看着它，好像它有什么话要对她说。她现在不会坐下来——她感到相当害怕。她只是站在它面前，当她站着的时候，过去的事就在她的情绪中涌上心头，敏感的人在奇怪的时间会出现这种情绪。这种激动的结果是一种突然的疲倦感，在这种感觉的影响下，她克服了顾忌，一屁股坐到了乡村风格的座位上。我说过她焦躁不安，无法自理。不管你是否在那儿看到她，你是否会钦佩前一个绰号的正义性，你至少会承认此时此刻她是懒惰受害者的形象。她的态度毫无目的。她的双手垂在身体两侧，淹没在黑色连衣裙的褶皱里。她的眼睛茫然地凝视着前方。 没有什么可以把她召回屋里。两位女士在隐居中很早就吃过饭，并在不固定的时间喝茶。她无法告诉你她以这个姿势坐了多久。但当她意识到自己并不孤单时，暮色已经变得浓重。她迅速直起身子，环顾四周，然后看到她的孤独变成了什么样子。她正在与卡斯帕·古德伍德分享这一切，卡斯帕·古德伍德站在几码远的地方看着她，当他走近时，她没有听到他在不和谐的草坪上的脚步声。在此期间，她突然想到，沃伯顿勋爵当年就曾让她感到惊讶过。

She instantly rose, and as soon as Goodwood saw he was seen he started forward. She had had time only to rise when, with a motion that looked like violence, but felt like-she knew not what, he grasped her by the wrist and made her sink again into the seat. She closed her eyes; he had not hurt her; it was only a touch, which she had obeyed. But there was something in his face that she wished not to see. That was the way he had looked at her the other day in the churchyard; only at present it was worse. He said nothing at first; she only felt him close to her-beside her on the bench and pressingly turned to her. It almost seemed to her that no one had ever been so close to her as that. All this, however, took but an instant, at the end of which she had disengaged her wrist, turning her eyes upon her visitant. ‘You’ve frightened me,’ she said.
她立即​​站了起来，古德伍德一看到有人看见他，就向前走去。她还没来得及站起来，他就抓住了她的手腕，让她重新坐回座位上，他的动作看起来像是暴力，但她自己也不知道是什么感觉。她闭上眼睛；他没有伤害她；只是轻轻一碰，她就顺从了。但他的脸上却有着她不愿看到的东西。那天他在教堂墓地里就是这样看着她的。只是目前情况更糟。起初他什么也没说。她只感觉到他离她很近——坐在她旁边的长凳上，并紧紧地转向她。在她看来，从来没有人像这样离她这么近过。然而，这一切只发生了一瞬间，最后她松开了手腕，将目光转向了来访者。 “你吓坏了我，”她说。

‘I didn’t mean to,’ he answered, ‘but if I did a little, no matter. I came from London a while ago by the train, but I couldn’t come here directly. There was a man at the station who got ahead of me. He took a fly that was there, and I heard him give the order to drive here. I don’t know who he was, but I didn’t want to come with him; I wanted to see you alone. So I’ve been waiting and walking about. I’ve walked all over, and I was just coming to the house when I saw you here. There was a keeper, or some one, who met me; but that was all right, because I had made his acquaintance when I came here with your cousin. Is that gentleman gone? Are you really alone? I want to speak to you.’ Goodwood spoke very fast; he was as excited as when they had parted in Rome. Isabel had hoped that condition would subside; and she shrank into herself as she perceived that, on the contrary, he had only let out sail. She had a new sensation; he had never produced it before; it was a feeling of danger. There was indeed something really formidable in his resolution. She gazed straight before her; he, with a hand on each knee, leaned forward, looking deeply into her face. The twilight seemed to darken round them. ‘I want to speak to you,’ he repeated; ‘I’ve something particular to say. I don’t want to trouble you-as I did the other day in Rome. That was of no use; it only distressed you. I couldn’t help it; I knew I was wrong. But I’m not wrong now; please don’t think I am,’ he went on with his hard, deep voice melting a moment into entreaty. ‘I came here to-day for a purpose. It’s very different. It was vain for me to speak to you then; but now I can help you.’
“我不是故意的，”他回答道，“但如果我做了一点，也没关系。”我前一阵子从伦敦坐火车来的，但没能直接来这里。车站里有一个人走在我前面。他抓住了那里的一只苍蝇，我听到他下令开车到这里。我不知道他是谁，但我不想和他一起去；我想单独见你。所以我一直在等待并四处走动。我走了一圈，刚到家，就看到你在这里。有一位看门人，或者说是某个人，迎接了我。不过没关系，因为我和你表弟来这里的时候就认识了他。那位先生走了吗？你真的孤身一人吗？ “我想和你谈谈。”古德伍德语速很快。他就像他们在罗马分别时一样兴奋。伊莎贝尔原本希望这种情况能够平息；当她发现他只是出航时，她缩了缩身子。她有了一种新的感觉；他以前从未制作过它；这是一种危险的感觉。他的决心确实有些令人畏惧。她直视前方；他一手放在膝盖上，身体前倾，深深地看着她的脸。他们周围的暮色似乎变暗了。 “我想和你说话，”他重复道。 ‘我有件事特别要说。我不想麻烦你——就像我前几天在罗马所做的那样。那是没有用的；这只会让你感到痛苦。我情不自禁；我知道我错了。但现在我没有错；请不要以为我是这样，”他继续说道，他的声音冷硬而低沉，一会儿又化为恳求。 “我今天来这里是有目的的。这是非常不同的。那时我和你说话是徒劳的；但现在我可以帮助你。

She couldn’t have told you whether it was because she was afraid, or because such a voice in the darkness seemed of necessity a boon; but she listened to him as she had never listened before; his words dropped deep into her soul. They produced a sort of stillness in all her being; and it was with an effort, in a moment, that she answered him. ‘How can you help me?’ she asked in a low tone, as if she were taking what he had said seriously enough to make the enquiry in confidence.
她无法告诉你这是因为她害怕，还是因为黑暗中的这种声音似乎必然是一种恩惠；但她听他说话的方式是她以前从未听过的。他的话深入她的灵魂。它们给她的全身带来了一种宁静。她花了一番功夫才回答了他。 “你能帮我什么忙？”她低声问道，仿佛她很认真地对待他所说的话，可以私下询问。

‘By inducing you to trust me. Now I know-to-day I know. Do you remember what I asked you in Rome? Then I was quite in the dark. But to-day I know on good authority; everything’s clear to me to-day. It was a good thing when you made me come away with your cousin. He was a good man, a fine man, one of the best; he told me how the case stands for you. He explained everything; he guessed my sentiments. He was a member of your family and he left you-so long as you should be in England-to my care,’ said Goodwood as if he were making a great point. ‘Do you know what he said to me the last time I saw him-as he lay there where he died? He said: ‘Do everything you can for her; do everything she’ll let you.’’
‘通过诱导你信任我。现在我知道了——今天我知道了。你还记得我在罗马问过你什么吗？然后我就完全蒙在鼓里了。但今天我有充分的权威知道；今天一切对我来说都清楚了。你让我和你表弟一起离开真是一件好事。他是一个好人，一个优秀的人，最好的人之一。他告诉我这个案子对你来说意味着什么。他解释了一切；他猜到了我的情绪。他是你家庭的一员，他把你——只要你还在英格兰——交给我照顾。”古德伍德说道，好像他在说一个很好的观点。 “你知道我最后一次见到他时——当他躺在死去的地方时，他对我说了什么吗？”他说：“为她尽你所能；做她会让你做的一切。”

Isabel suddenly got up. ‘You had no business to talk about me!’
伊莎贝尔突然站了起来。 “你没有资格谈论我！”

‘Why not-why not, when we talked in that way?’ he demanded, following her fast. ‘And he was dying-when a man’s dying it’s different.’ She checked the movement she had made to leave him; she was listening more than ever; it was true that he was not the same as that last time. That had been aimless, fruitless passion, but at present he had an idea, which she scented in all her being. ‘But it doesn’t matter!’ he exclaimed, pressing her still harder, though now without touching a hem of her garment. ‘If Touchett had never opened his mouth I should have known all the same. I had only to look at you at your cousin’s funeral to see what’s the matter with you. You can’t deceive me any more; for God’s sake be honest with a man who’s so honest with you. You’re the most unhappy of women, and your husband’s the deadliest of fiends.’
“为什么不——为什么不呢，当我们那样说话的时候？”他追着她问道。 “而他快要死了——当一个人快要死的时候，情况是不一样的。”她停下了准备离开他的动作；但她还是没有动。她比以往任何时候都更愿意倾听。确实，他和上次不一样了。那是漫无目的、徒劳无果的激情，但现在他有了一个想法，她全身心都嗅到了这个想法。 “但这没关系！”他喊道，把她压得更紧了，不过现在没有碰到她的衣摆。 “如果图切特从未张开嘴，我也应该知道。我只要在你表弟的葬礼上看看你，就知道你出了什么问题。你不能再欺骗我了；看在上帝的份上，对一个对你如此诚实的人诚实吧。你是最不幸福的女人，而你的丈夫是最致命的恶魔。

She turned on him as if he had struck her. ‘Are you mad?’ she cried.
她转向他，就好像他打了她一样。 “你生气了吗？”她喊道。

‘I’ve never been so sane; I see the whole thing. Don’t think it’s necessary to defend him. But I won’t say another word against him; I’ll speak only of you,’ Goodwood added quickly. ‘How can you pretend you’re not heartbroken? You don’t know what to do-you don’t know where to turn. It’s too late to play a part; didn’t you leave all that behind you in Rome? Touchett knew all about it, and I knew it too-what it would cost you to come here. It will have cost you your life? Say it will’-and he flared almost into anger: ‘give me one word of truth! When I know such a horror as that, how can I keep myself from wishing to save you? What would you think of me if I should stand still and see you go back to your reward? ‘It’s awful, what she’ll have to pay for it!’-that’s what Touchett said to me. I may tell you that, mayn’t I? He was such a near relation!’ cried Goodwood, making his queer grim point again. ‘I’d sooner have been shot than let another man say those things to me; but he was different; he seemed to me to have the right. It was after he got home-when he saw he was dying, and when I saw it too. I understand all about it: you’re afraid to go back. You’re perfectly alone; you don’t know where to turn. You can’t turn anywhere; you know that perfectly. Now it is therefore that I want you to think of me.’
“我从来没有这么理智过；我看到了整个事情。认为没有必要为他辩护。但我不会再说任何反对他的话；我只会谈论你，”古德伍德很快补充道。 ‘你怎么能假装你不伤心呢？你不知道该做什么——你不知道该转向哪里。想要发挥作用已经太晚了；你不是把这一切都留在了罗马吗？塔奇特知道这一切，我也知道——来到这里要付出什么代价。这会让你付出生命的代价吗？说吧”——他几乎勃然大怒：“给我一句实话！”当我知道这样的恐怖时，我怎么能不去拯救你呢？如果我站着不动，看着你回去领取你的奖赏，你会怎么看我？ “这太糟糕了，她必须为此付出代价！”——这就是图切特对我说的。我可以告诉你，不是吗？他真是我们的近亲啊！”古德伍德喊道，再次表达了他那古怪而严峻的观点。 “我宁愿被枪杀，也不愿让另一个人对我说这些话；”但他不一样；我认为他有权利。那是在他回家之后——当他看到自己快要死的时候，我也看到了。我完全理解：你害怕回去。你完全孤独；你不知道该向哪里求助。你无法转向任何地方；你非常清楚这一点。因此，现在我希望你能想到我。

‘To think of ‘you’?’ Isabel said, standing before him in the dusk. The idea of which she had caught a glimpse a few moments before now loomed large. She threw back her head a little; she stared at it as if it had been a comet in the sky.
“想到‘你’？”伊莎贝尔在黄昏中站在他面前说道。刚才她瞥见的这个想法现在变得越来越重要。她把头向后仰了一点。她盯着它，仿佛它是天空中的一颗彗星。

‘You don’t know where to turn. Turn straight to me. I want to persuade you to trust me,’ Goodwood repeated. And then he paused with his shining eyes. ‘Why should you go back-why should you go through that ghastly form?’
‘你不知道该转向哪里。直接转向我。我想说服你相信我。”古德伍德重复道。然后他停了下来，眼睛闪闪发亮。 “你为什么要回去——为什么你要经历那种可怕的形式？”

‘To get away from you!’ she answered. But this expressed only a little of what she felt. The rest was that she had never been loved before. She had believed it, but this was different; this was the hot wind of the desert, at the approach of which the others dropped dead, like mere sweet airs of the garden. It wrapped her about; it lifted her off her feet, while the very taste of it, as of something potent, acrid and strange, forced open her set teeth.
“为了远离你！”她回答道。但这只表达了她的一小部分感受。剩下的就是她从来没有被爱过。她曾经相信过，但这次不同了；她相信了。这是沙漠的热风，其他人一吹就倒地死去，就像花园里的甜美空气一样。它把她包裹起来；它让她站了起来，而它的味道，就像某种强烈的、辛辣的、奇怪的东西，迫使她张开紧闭的牙齿。

At first, in rejoinder to what she had said, it seemed to her that he would break out into greater violence. But after an instant he was perfectly quiet; he wished to prove he was sane, that he had reasoned it all out. ‘I want to prevent that, and I think I may, if you’ll only for once listen to me. It’s too monstrous of you to think of sinking back into that misery, of going to open your mouth to that poisoned air. It’s you that are out of your mind. Trust me as if I had the care of you. Why shouldn’t we be happy-when it’s here before us, when it’s so easy? I’m yours for ever-for ever and ever. Here I stand; I’m as firm as a rock. What have you to care about? You’ve no children; that perhaps would be an obstacle. As it is you’ve nothing to consider. You must save what you can of your life; you mustn’t lose it all simply because you’ve lost a part. It would be an insult to you to assume that you care for the look of the thing, for what people will say, for the bottomless idiocy of the world. We’ve nothing to do with all that; we’re quite out of it; we look at things as they are. You took the great step in coming away; the next is nothing; it’s the natural one. I swear, as I stand here, that a woman deliberately made to suffer is-justified in anything in life-in going down into the streets if that will help her! I know how you suffer, and that’s why I’m here. We can do absolutely as we please; to whom under the sun do we owe anything? What is it that holds us, what is it that has the smallest right to interfere in such a question as this? Such a question is between ourselves-and to say that is to settle it! Were we born to rot in our misery-were we born to be afraid? I never knew you afraid! If you’ll only trust me, how little you will be disappointed! The world’s all before us-and the world’s very big. I know something about that.’
起初，为了反驳她的话，她觉得他会爆发出更大的暴力。但过了一会儿，他就完全安静了。他想证明自己是理智的，他已经把这一切都推理出来了。 “我想阻止这种情况发生，我想我可以，只要你听我说一次。”你实在是太可怕了，竟然没想到要重新陷入那种痛苦之中，要张开嘴去呼吸那股有毒的空气。是你疯了。相信我，就像我照顾你一样。当它就在我们面前，当它如此容易时，我们为什么不应该感到快乐呢？我是你的，永远永远永远。我站在这儿;我坚如磐石。你有什么要关心的？你没有孩子；这也许会成为一个障碍。既然如此，你就没有什么可考虑的。你必须尽你所能节省你的生命；你不能仅仅因为失去了一部分就失去了一切。如果你认为你关心事物的外观、人们的言论、世界上无底洞的愚蠢，那将是对你的侮辱。我们与这一切无关；我们完全没有办法了；我们按事物本来的样子来看待。你迈出了离开的伟大一步；接下来什么都没有；这是自然的。当我站在这里时，我发誓，一个故意让她受苦的女人——无论在生活中的任何事情上——走上街头都是合理的，如果这能帮助她的话！我知道你有多痛苦，这就是我来这里的原因。我们绝对可以为所欲为；天底下我们欠谁的？是什么控制着我们，什么最有权利干涉这样的问题？这样的问题是我们之间的问题——说出来就是解决它！我们生来就在痛苦中腐烂吗——我们生来就害怕吗？我从来不知道你害怕！只要你相信我，你就不会失望！ 世界就在我们面前——而且世界很大。我对此有所了解。’

Isabel gave a long murmur, like a creature in pain; it was as if he were pressing something that hurt her. ‘The world’s very small,’ she said at random; she had an immense desire to appear to resist. She said it at random, to hear herself say something; but it was not what she meant. The world, in truth, had never seemed so large; it seemed to open out, all round her, to take the form of a mighty sea, where she floated in fathomless waters. She had wanted help, and here was help; it had come in a rushing torrent. I know not whether she believed everything he said; but she believed just then that to let him take her in his arms would be the next best thing to her dying. This belief, for a moment, was a kind of rapture, in which she felt herself sink and sink. In the movement she seemed to beat with her feet, in order to catch herself, to feel something to rest on.
伊莎贝尔发出一声长长的低语，就像一个痛苦的生物。就好像他压着什么东西伤害了她。 “世界很小。”她随口说道。她非常渴望表现出反抗的样子。她随意地说，是为了听自己说些什么；但这不是她的意思。事实上，世界从未显得如此之大。它似乎在她周围展开，呈现出一片浩瀚大海的形状，她漂浮在深不可测的水域中。她需要帮助，而这里就是帮助；它如洪流般涌来。我不知道她是否相信他所说的一切；但她当时就相信，让他把她抱在怀里，是仅次于她死去的最好的事情。这种信念，有一瞬间，是一种狂喜，她感觉自己在其中不断地沉沦。在这个动作中，她似乎在用脚拍打，以便抓住自己，感觉到有什么可以休息的地方。

‘Ah, be mine as I’m yours!’ she heard her companion cry. He had suddenly given up argument, and his voice seemed to come, harsh and terrible, through a confusion of vaguer sounds.
“啊，成为我的吧，就像我是你的一样！”她听到同伴喊道。他突然放弃了争论，他的声音似乎是从一些模糊的声音中传来的，刺耳而可怕。

This however, of course, was but a subjective fact, as the metaphysicians say; the confusion, the noise of waters, all the rest of it, were in her own swimming head. In an instant she became aware of this. ‘Do me the greatest kindness of all,’ she panted. ‘I beseech you to go away!’
然而，正如形而上学家所说，这当然只是一个主观事实。混乱，水流的噪音，所有其他的一切，都在她自己的游泳头脑中。刹那间，她意识到了这一点。 “请给我最大的仁慈吧，”她气喘吁吁地说。 “我求你走开！”

‘Ah, don’t say that. Don’t kill me!’ he cried.
‘啊，别这么说。别杀我！”他喊道。

She clasped her hands; her eyes were streaming with tears. ‘As you love me, as you pity me, leave me alone!’
她紧握双手；她的眼睛里充满了泪水。 “既然你爱我，既然你可怜我，就让我一个人静一静吧！”

He glared at her a moment through the dusk, and the next instant she felt his arms about her and his lips on her own lips. His kiss was like white lightning, a flash that spread, and spread again, and stayed; and it was extraordinarily as if, while she took it, she felt each thing in his hard manhood that had least pleased her, each aggressive fact of his face, his figure, his presence, justified of its intense identity and made one with this act of possession. So had she heard of those wrecked and under water following a train of images before they sink. But when darkness returned she was free. She never looked about her; she only darted from the spot. There were lights in the windows of the house; they shone far across the lawn. In an extraordinarily short time-for the distance was considerable-he had moved through the darkness (for she saw nothing) and reached the door. Here only she paused. She looked all about her; she listened a little; then she put her hand on the latch. She had not known where to turn; but she knew now. There was a very straight path.
他透过黄昏瞪了她一会儿，下一瞬间她就感觉到他的手臂搂住了她，他的嘴唇贴上了她自己的嘴唇。他的吻就像白色的闪电，一道闪光蔓延开来，然后停留下来；就好像，当她接受它的时候，她感受到了他硬朗的男子气概中最不让她高兴的每一件事，他的脸、他的身材、他的存在中的每一个侵略性事实，都证明了其强烈的身份，并与这一行为融为一体的占有。她也听说过那些遇难者在沉没之前在水下追随着一串图像的故事。但当夜幕降临时，她就自由了。她从不环顾四周；她只是从原地飞奔而去。房子的窗户里亮着灯。它们的光芒远远穿过草坪。在极短的时间内——因为距离相当远——他穿过黑暗（因为她什么也没看见）到达了门口。只有她在这里停了下来。她环顾四周；她听了一会儿；然后她把手放在门闩上。她不知道该向哪里求助；但她现在知道了。有一条非常直的路。

Two days afterwards Caspar Goodwood knocked at the door of the house in Wimpole Street in which Henrietta Stackpole occupied furnished lodgings. He had hardly removed his hand from the knocker when the door was opened and Miss Stackpole herself stood before him. She had on her hat and jacket; she was on the point of going out. ‘Oh, good-morning,’ he said, ‘I was in hopes I should find Mrs. Osmond.’
两天后，卡斯帕·古德伍德敲响了温波尔街那栋房子的门，亨丽埃塔·斯塔克波尔在这所房子里住着带家具的住所。他的手刚从门环上移开，门就打开了，斯塔克波尔小姐站在他面前。她戴着帽子，穿着夹克；她正要出去。 “哦，早上好，”他说，“我希望能找到奥斯蒙德夫人。”

Henrietta kept him waiting a moment for her reply; but there was a good deal of expression about Miss Stackpole even when she was silent. ‘Pray what led you to suppose she was here?’
亨利埃塔让他等了一会儿，等待她的答复。但斯塔克波尔小姐即使在沉默的时候，也有很多表情。 “请问是什么让你认为她在这里？”

‘I went down to Gardencourt this morning, and the servant told me she had come to London. He believed she was to come to you.’
“今天早上我去了花园考特，仆人告诉我她已经来伦敦了。他相信她会来找你。

Again Miss Stackpole held him-with an intention of perfect kindness-in suspense. ‘She came here yesterday, and spent the night. But this morning she started for Rome.’
斯塔克波尔小姐再次抱着他——怀着完美的善意——悬念不已。 “她昨天来到这里，并过夜。但今天早上她启程前往罗马。”

Caspar Goodwood was not looking at her; his eyes were fastened on the doorstep. ‘Oh, she started-?’ he stammered. And without finishing his phrase or looking up he stiffly averted himself. But he couldn’t otherwise move.
卡斯帕·古德伍德没有看她；他只是看着她。他的眼睛一直盯着门阶。 “哦，她开始——？”他结结巴巴地说。他没有把话说完，也没有抬头，僵硬地避开了自己。但他无法移动。

Henrietta had come out, closing the door behind her, and now she put out her hand and grasped his arm. ‘Look here, Mr. Goodwood,’ she said; ‘just you wait!’
亨丽埃塔走了出来，关上了身后的门，现在她伸出手抓住了他的手臂。 “看这里，古德伍德先生，”她说。 “你等着吧！”

On which he looked up at her-but only to guess, from her face, with a revulsion, that she simply meant he was young. She stood shining at him with that cheap comfort, and it added, on the spot, thirty years to his life. She walked him away with her, however, as if she had given him now the key to patience.
说到这里，他抬头看着她——但从她脸上带着厌恶的表情，他只能猜测她只是在说他还年轻。她站在他面前，带着那种廉价的安慰，光芒四射，立刻就让他多活了三十年。然而，她带着他离开了，仿佛她现在给了他耐心的钥匙。

THE END
结束