
The Thirty-Nine Steps
三十九级台阶

By John Buchan
约翰·巴肯

TO
THOMAS ARTHUR NELSON
托马斯·阿瑟·纳尔逊

(LOTHIAN AND BORDER HORSE)
（洛锡安和边境马）

My Dear Tommy,
我亲爱的汤米，


You and I have long cherished an affection for that elemental type of tale which Americans call the ‘dime novel’ and which we know as the ‘shocker’ the romance where the incidents defy the probabilities, and march just inside the borders of the possible. During an illness last winter I exhausted my store of those aids to cheerfulness, and was driven to write one for myself. This little volume is the result, and I should like to put your name on it in memory of our long friendship, in the days when the wildest fictions are so much less improbable than the facts.
你和我长期以来一直对这种基本类型的故事怀有一种感情，美国人称之为“一毛钱小说”，我们称之为“令人震惊”的浪漫故事，其中事件违背了可能性，并且在可能性的范围内进行。去年冬天生病期间，我用尽了我储存的那些快乐的辅助手段，并被迫为自己写一个。这本小书就是我的成果，我想把你的名字写在上面，以纪念我们长期的友谊，在这个最疯狂的小说比事实更不可能的时代。


J.B.

CHAPTER ONE
第一章

The Man Who Died
死去的人

I returned from the City about three o’clock on that May afternoon pretty well disgusted with life. I had been three months in the Old Country, and was fed up with it. If anyone had told me a year ago that I would have been feeling like that I should have laughed at him; but there was the fact. The weather made me liverish, the talk of the ordinary Englishman made me sick, I couldn’t get enough exercise, and the amusements of London seemed as flat as sodawater that has been standing in the sun. ‘Richard Hannay,’ I kept telling myself, ‘you have got into the wrong ditch, my friend, and you had better climb out.’ It made me bite my lips to think of the plans I had been building up those last years in Bulawayo. I had got my pile not one of the big ones, but good enough for me; and I had figured out all kinds of ways of enjoying myself. My father had brought me out from Scotland at the age of six, and I had never been home since; so England was a sort of Arabian Nights to me, and I counted on stopping there for the rest of my days.
那个五月的下午三点左右，我从城里回来，对生活感到非常厌恶。我在故国待了三个月，已经厌倦了。如果一年前有人告诉我，我会有这样的感觉，我会嘲笑他的。但事实是这样的。天气让我生气，普通英国人的谈话让我恶心，我无法得到足够的锻炼，伦敦的娱乐似乎像在阳光下晒过的苏打水一样平淡。 “理查德·汉内，”我不断地告诉自己，“你已经掉进了错误的沟渠，我的朋友，你最好爬出来。”一想到我过去几年制定的计划，我就咬紧嘴唇。布拉瓦约。我的那堆虽然不是大堆的，但对我来说已经足够了；我已经想出了各种各样的享受方式。六岁时，父亲将我从苏格兰带了出来，从那以后我就再也没有回家过。所以英国对我来说就像是天方夜谭，我指望在那里度过余生。

But from the first I was disappointed with it. In about a week I was tired of seeing sights, and in less than a month I had had enough of restaurants and theatres and race-meetings. I had no real pal to go about with, which probably explains things. Plenty of people invited me to their houses, but they didn’t seem much interested in me. They would fling me a question or two about South Africa, and then get on their own affairs. A lot of Imperialist ladies asked me to tea to meet schoolmasters from New Zealand and editors from Vancouver, and that was the dismalest business of all. Here was I, thirty-seven years old, sound in wind and limb, with enough money to have a good time, yawning my head off all day. I had just about settled to clear out and get back to the veld, for I was the best bored man in the United Kingdom.
但从一开始我就对它感到失望。大约一周的时间里，我厌倦了观光，不到一个月的时间，我就厌倦了餐馆、剧院和赛马会。我没有真正的朋友可以一起去，这也许可以解释一些事情。很多人邀请我去他们家，但他们似乎对我不太感兴趣。他们会问我一两个关于南非的问题，然后就开始处理自己的事情。许多帝国主义女士请我喝茶，会见新西兰的校长和温哥华的编辑，这是最令人沮丧的事情。这就是我，三十七岁，四肢健全，有足够的钱去享受美好时光，整天哈欠连天。我正准备离开并返回草原，因为我是英国最无聊的人。

That afternoon I had been worrying my brokers about investments to give my mind something to work on, and on my way home I turned into my club rather a pot-house, which took in Colonial members. I had a long drink, and read the evening papers. They were full of the row in the Near East, and there was an article about Karolides, the Greek Premier. I rather fancied the chap. From all accounts he seemed the one big man in the show; and he played a straight game too, which was more than could be said for most of them. I gathered that they hated him pretty blackly in Berlin and Vienna, but that we were going to stick by him, and one paper said that he was the only barrier between Europe and Armageddon. I remember wondering if I could get a job in those parts. It struck me that Albania was the sort of place that might keep a man from yawning.
那天下午，我一直在担心我的经纪人关于投资的事情，以便让我的头脑有一些工作可以做，在回家的路上，我把我的俱乐部变成了一个酒吧，接纳了殖民地会员。我喝了一大杯酒，读了晚报。他们充满了近东的争论，还有一篇关于希腊总理卡罗利德斯的文章。我比较喜欢这个家伙。从各方面来看，他似乎是这场演出中的一个大人物。而且他也打出了一盘直棋，这对他们中的大多数人来说都是难以言说的。我听说柏林和维也纳的人对他恨之入骨，但我们会坚持他，一份报纸说他是欧洲和世界末日之间的唯一障碍。我记得我想知道我是否能在这些领域找到一份工作。我突然意识到，阿尔巴尼亚是那种让人不打哈欠的地方。

About six o’clock I went home, dressed, dined at the Cafe Royal, and turned into a music-hall. It was a silly show, all capering women and monkey-faced men, and I did not stay long. The night was fine and clear as I walked back to the flat I had hired near Portland Place. The crowd surged past me on the pavements, busy and chattering, and I envied the people for having something to do. These shop-girls and clerks and dandies and policemen had some interest in life that kept them going. I gave half-a-crown to a beggar because I saw him yawn; he was a fellow-sufferer. At Oxford Circus I looked up into the spring sky and I made a vow. I would give the Old Country another day to fit me into something; if nothing happened, I would take the next boat for the Cape.
大约六点钟，我回家，穿好衣服，在皇家咖啡馆用餐，然后走进音乐厅。这是一场愚蠢的表演，全是雀跃的女人和猴子脸的男人，我没有停留太久。当我走回我在波特兰广场附近租的公寓时，夜色晴朗。人行道上，人群从我身边涌过，忙碌而喋喋不休，我很羡慕人们有事可做。这些女店员、店员、花花公子和警察对生活有一些兴趣，这让他们继续前进。我给了一个乞丐半个克朗，因为我看到他打哈欠；他是一个同病相怜的人。在牛津广场，我仰望春天的天空，许下誓言。我愿意再给故乡一天时间，让我适应一些事情；如果不出意外的话，我会乘下一班船去海角。

My flat was the first floor in a new block behind Langham Place. There was a common staircase, with a porter and a liftman at the entrance, but there was no restaurant or anything of that sort, and each flat was quite shut off from the others. I hate servants on the premises, so I had a fellow to look after me who came in by the day. He arrived before eight o’clock every morning and used to depart at seven, for I never dined at home.
我的公寓位于朗豪坊后面一个新街区的一楼。有一个公共楼梯，入口处有搬运工和电梯工，但没有餐厅或类似的东西，而且每间公寓都与其他公寓完全隔离。我讨厌店里的仆人，所以我有一个白天进来的人来照顾我。他每天早上八点前到达，七点钟出发，因为我从来不在家吃饭。

I was just fitting my key into the door when I noticed a man at my elbow. I had not seen him approach, and the sudden appearance made me start. He was a slim man, with a short brown beard and small, gimlety blue eyes. I recognized him as the occupant of a flat on the top floor, with whom I had passed the time of day on the stairs.
我刚把钥匙插进门，就注意到我的肘部有一个男人。我没有看到他走近，他的突然出现让我吃了一惊。他身材瘦削，留着棕色短胡子，一双蓝色的小眼睛闪闪发亮。我认出他是顶楼一套公寓的住户，我曾和他一起在楼梯上度过一天的时光。

‘Can I speak to you?’ he said. ‘May I come in for a minute?’ He was steadying his voice with an effort, and his hand was pawing my arm.
“我可以和你说话吗？”他说。 “我可以进来一下吗？”他努力稳定自己的声音，他的手正在抓着我的手臂。

I got my door open and motioned him in. No sooner was he over the threshold than he made a dash for my back room, where I used to smoke and write my letters. Then he bolted back.
我打开门，示意他进来。他一跨过门槛，就冲向我的后屋，我过去常常在那里抽烟和写信。然后他又冲了回来。

‘Is the door locked?’ he asked feverishly, and he fastened the chain with his own hand.
“门锁了吗？”他狂热地问道，并亲手系紧了链子。

‘I’m very sorry,’ he said humbly. ‘It’s a mighty liberty, but you looked the kind of man who would understand. I’ve had you in my mind all this week when things got troublesome. Say, will you do me a good turn?’
“我非常抱歉，”他谦虚地说。 “这是一种巨大的自由，但你看起来是那种能够理解的人。这周当事情变得麻烦时，我心里一直想着你。说吧，你愿意帮我一个忙吗？

‘I’ll listen to you,’ I said. ‘That’s all I’ll promise.’ I was getting worried by the antics of this nervous little chap.
“我会听你的，”我说。 “我只能保证这一点。”这个紧张的小家伙的滑稽动作让我很担心。

There was a tray of drinks on a table beside him, from which he filled himself a stiff whisky-and-soda. He drank it off in three gulps, and cracked the glass as he set it down.
他旁边的桌子上有一盘饮料，他从里面给自己倒了一杯烈性威士忌苏打水。他一口气喝了三口，放下时把玻璃杯打碎了。

‘Pardon,’ he said, ‘I’m a bit rattled tonight. You see, I happen at this moment to be dead.’
“请原谅，”他说，“我今晚有点不安。”你看，我此刻恰好死了。”

I sat down in an armchair and lit my pipe.
我坐在扶手椅上，点燃了烟斗。

‘What does it feel like?’ I asked. I was pretty certain that I had to deal with a madman.
“感觉怎么样？”我问。我非常确定我必须面对一个疯子。

A smile flickered over his drawn face. ‘I’m not mad yet. Say, Sir, I’ve been watching you, and I reckon you’re a cool customer. I reckon, too, you’re an honest man, and not afraid of playing a bold hand. I’m going to confide in you. I need help worse than any man ever needed it, and I want to know if I can count you in.’
他憔悴的脸上闪过一丝微笑。 ‘我还没生气。先生，我一直在关注您，我认为您是一位很酷的顾客。我也觉得你是个诚实的人，不怕出手大胆。我要向你倾诉。我比任何人都更需要帮助，我想知道我是否可以把你算在内。

‘Get on with your yarn,’ I said, ‘and I’ll tell you.’
“继续你的故事，”我说，“我会告诉你的。”

He seemed to brace himself for a great effort, and then started on the queerest rigmarole. I didn’t get hold of it at first, and I had to stop and ask him questions. But here is the gist of it:
他似乎做好了付出巨大努力的准备，然后开始了最奇怪的胡言乱语。我一开始没明白，不得不停下来问他问题。但要点如下：

He was an American, from Kentucky, and after college, being pretty well off, he had started out to see the world. He wrote a bit, and acted as war correspondent for a Chicago paper, and spent a year or two in South-Eastern Europe. I gathered that he was a fine linguist, and had got to know pretty well the society in those parts. He spoke familiarly of many names that I remembered to have seen in the newspapers.
他是美国人，来自肯塔基州，大学毕业后，他的生活相当富裕，开始环游世界。他写过一些文章，并担任芝加哥一家报纸的战地记者，并在东南欧呆了一两年。我推测他是一位优秀的语言学家，并且对那些地区的社会非常了解。他亲切地提到了我记得在报纸上见过的许多名字。

He had played about with politics, he told me, at first for the interest of them, and then because he couldn’t help himself. I read him as a sharp, restless fellow, who always wanted to get down to the roots of things. He got a little further down than he wanted.
他告诉我，他玩弄政治，一开始是为了他们的利益，后来是因为他无法控制自己。我认为他是一个敏锐、焦躁不安的人，总是想追根溯源。他比他想要的还要低一些。

I am giving you what he told me as well as I could make it out. Away behind all the Governments and the armies there was a big subterranean movement going on, engineered by very dangerous people. He had come on it by accident; it fascinated him; he went further, and then he got caught. I gathered that most of the people in it were the sort of educated anarchists that make revolutions, but that beside them there were financiers who were playing for money. A clever man can make big profits on a falling market, and it suited the book of both classes to set Europe by the ears.
我正在把他告诉我的以及我能理解的内容告诉你。在所有政府和军队的背后，正在发生一场由非常危险的人策划的大规模地下运动。他是偶然遇到的。这让他着迷；他走得更远，然后被抓住了。我猜想，里面的大多数人都是受过教育、发动革命的无政府主义者，但除了他们之外，还有一些为钱而玩的金融家。一个聪明的人可以在下跌的市场中赚取巨额利润，而这两个阶层的书都适合欧洲。

He told me some queer things that explained a lot that had puzzled me things that happened in the Balkan War, how one state suddenly came out on top, why alliances were made and broken, why certain men disappeared, and where the sinews of war came from. The aim of the whole conspiracy was to get Russia and Germany at loggerheads.
他告诉我一些奇怪的事情，这些事情解释了很多让我困惑的巴尔干战争中发生的事情，一个国家如何突然占据上风，为什么联盟建立和破裂，为什么某些人消失，以及战争的根源来自哪里从。整个阴谋的目的是让俄罗斯和德国发生争执。

When I asked why, he said that the anarchist lot thought it would give them their chance. Everything would be in the meltingpot, and they looked to see a new world emerge. The capitalists would rake in the shekels, and make fortunes by buying up wreckage. Capital, he said, had no conscience and no fatherland. Besides, the Jew was behind it, and the Jew hated Russia worse than hell.
当我问为什么时，他说无政府主义者认为这会给他们机会。一切都将进入熔炉，他们期待看到一个新世界的出现。资本家会大肆捞取谢克尔，并通过购买残骸来发财。他说，资本没有良心，也没有祖国。再说了，背后还有犹太人在背后操纵，犹太人对俄罗斯恨之入骨。

‘Do you wonder?’ he cried. ‘For three hundred years they have been persecuted, and this is the return match for the pogroms. The Jew is everywhere, but you have to go far down the backstairs to find him. Take any big Teutonic business concern. If you have dealings with it the first man you meet is Prince von und Zu Something, an elegant young man who talks Eton-and-Harrow English. But he cuts no ice. If your business is big, you get behind him and find a prognathous Westphalian with a retreating brow and the manners of a hog. He is the German business man that gives your English papers the shakes. But if you’re on the biggest kind of job and are bound to get to the real boss, ten to one you are brought up against a little white-faced Jew in a bath-chair with an eye like a rattlesnake. Yes, Sir, he is the man who is ruling the world just now, and he has his knife in the Empire of the Tzar, because his aunt was outraged and his father flogged in some one-horse location on the Volga.’
“你想知道吗？”他喊道。 “三百年来，他们一直受到迫害，这是大屠杀的回击。”犹太人无处不在，但你必须走到后楼很远的地方才能找到他。以日耳曼任何大型商业问题为例。如果你和它打交道，你遇到的第一个人就是Prince von und Zu Something，一位优雅的年轻人，说着伊顿公学和哈罗公学的英语。但他没有切冰。如果你的生意很大，你就可以走到他身后，发现他是一个下巴突出、眉头后缩、举止像猪的威斯特伐利亚人。他是一位让你的英语试卷大吃一惊的德国商人。但如果你从事的是最重要的工作，并且注定会遇到真正的老板，那么你就会以十比一的比例面对一个坐在浴椅上、眼睛像响尾蛇的白脸小犹太人。是的，先生，他就是刚才统治世界的人，他的刀在沙皇帝国，因为他的姨妈被激怒了，他的父亲在伏尔加河上的某个只有一匹马的地方被鞭打了。

I could not help saying that his Jew-anarchists seemed to have got left behind a little.
我忍不住说，他的犹太无政府主义者似乎有点落后了。

‘Yes and no,’ he said. ‘They won up to a point, but they struck a bigger thing than money, a thing that couldn’t be bought, the old elemental fighting instincts of man. If you’re going to be killed you invent some kind of flag and country to fight for, and if you survive you get to love the thing. Those foolish devils of soldiers have found something they care for, and that has upset the pretty plan laid in Berlin and Vienna. But my friends haven’t played their last card by a long sight. They’ve gotten the ace up their sleeves, and unless I can keep alive for a month they are going to play it and win.’
“是的，也不是，”他说。 “他们在一定程度上取得了胜利，但他们击中了比金钱更重要的东西，这是买不到的东西，是人类古老的基本战斗本能。如果你要被杀，你就会发明某种旗帜和国家来为之奋斗，如果你活下来，你就会爱上这个东西。那些愚蠢的士兵们找到了他们所关心的东西，这打乱了柏林和维也纳制定的美好计划。但我的朋友们还没有打出最后一张牌。他们已经掌握了王牌，除非我能活一个月，否则他们就会玩它并获胜。

‘But I thought you were dead,’ I put in.
“但我以为你死了，”我插嘴道。

‘MORS JANUA VITAE,’ he smiled. (I recognized the quotation: it was about all the Latin I knew.) ‘I’m coming to that, but I’ve got to put you wise about a lot of things first. If you read your newspaper, I guess you know the name of Constantine Karolides?’
“MORS JANUA VITAE，”他微笑着。 （我认出了这句话：它是关于我所知道的所有拉丁语的。）“我正在讲这个，但我必须首先让你了解很多事情。如果你读过报纸，我猜你知道康斯坦丁·卡罗利德斯的名字吗？

I sat up at that, for I had been reading about him that very afternoon.
我当时就坐了起来，因为那天下午我一直在读有关他的文章。

‘He is the man that has wrecked all their games. He is the one big brain in the whole show, and he happens also to be an honest man. Therefore he has been marked down these twelve months past. I found that out not that it was difficult, for any fool could guess as much. But I found out the way they were going to get him, and that knowledge was deadly. That’s why I have had to decease.’
“他是那个毁掉了他们所有比赛的人。他是整部剧中的大脑大佬，同时也是一个老实人。因此，他在过去的十二个月里已经被降价了。我发现这并不困难，因为任何傻瓜都可以猜到。但我发现了他们要抓到他的方法，而这个知识是致命的。这就是为什么我不得不死。

He had another drink, and I mixed it for him myself, for I was getting interested in the beggar.
他又喝了一杯，我亲自为他调了一杯，因为我对那个乞丐越来越感兴趣。

‘They can’t get him in his own land, for he has a bodyguard of Epirotes that would skin their grandmothers. But on the 15th day of June he is coming to this city. The British Foreign Office has taken to having International tea-parties, and the biggest of them is due on that date. Now Karolides is reckoned the principal guest, and if my friends have their way he will never return to his admiring countrymen.’
“他们无法让他回到自己的土地，因为他有一个伊庇鲁斯保镖，会剥他们祖母的皮。但6月15日，他要来到这个城市。英国外交部已开始举办国际茶话会，其中规模最大的茶话会将于该日期举行。现在卡罗利德斯被认为是主要客人，如果我的朋友们按他们的方式行事，他将永远不会回到他钦佩的同胞身边。

‘That’s simple enough, anyhow,’ I said. ‘You can warn him and keep him at home.’
“无论如何，这很简单，”我说。 “你可以警告他并让他留在家里。”

‘And play their game?’ he asked sharply. ‘If he does not come they win, for he’s the only man that can straighten out the tangle. And if his Government are warned he won’t come, for he does not know how big the stakes will be on June the 15th.’
“然后玩他们的游戏？”他尖锐地问道。 “如果他不来，他们就赢了，因为他是唯一能够理顺混乱的人。如果他的政府收到警告，他就不会来，因为他不知道 6 月 15 日的赌注有多大。

‘What about the British Government?’ I said. ‘They’re not going to let their guests be murdered. Tip them the wink, and they’ll take extra precautions.’
“那英国政府呢？”我说。 “他们不会让他们的客人被谋杀。给他们眨眼，他们就会采取额外的预防措施。

‘No good. They might stuff your city with plain-clothes detectives and double the police and Constantine would still be a doomed man. My friends are not playing this game for candy. They want a big occasion for the taking off, with the eyes of all Europe on it. He’ll be murdered by an Austrian, and there’ll be plenty of evidence to show the connivance of the big folk in Vienna and Berlin. It will all be an infernal lie, of course, but the case will look black enough to the world. I’m not talking hot air, my friend. I happen to know every detail of the hellish contrivance, and I can tell you it will be the most finished piece of blackguardism since the Borgias. But it’s not going to come off if there’s a certain man who knows the wheels of the business alive right here in London on the 15th day of June. And that man is going to be your servant, Franklin P. Scudder.’
'不好。他们可能会在你的城市塞满便衣侦探和双倍的警察，而康斯坦丁仍然是一个注定要失败的人。我的朋友玩这个游戏不是为了糖果。他们想要一个起飞的大场合，让整个欧洲都注视着它。他将被奥地利人谋杀，并且有大量证据表明维也纳和柏林大人物的纵容。当然，这一切都将是一个地狱般的谎言，但这个案子对于世人来说将是足够黑暗的。我不是在说空话，我的朋友。我碰巧知道这个地狱般的阴谋的每一个细节，我可以告诉你，这将是自博吉亚家族以来最彻底的恶棍行为。但如果 6 月 15 日有一个了解这个行业的人还活着在伦敦，那么它就不会成功。那个人将成为你的仆人，富兰克林·P·斯卡德。

I was getting to like the little chap. His jaw had shut like a rattrap, and there was the fire of battle in his gimlety eyes. If he was spinning me a yarn he could act up to it.
我越来越喜欢这个小家伙了。他的下巴像捕鼠器一样闭上了，他那双锐利的眼睛里闪烁着战斗的火焰。如果他给我编故事，他就能付诸行动。

‘Where did you find out this story?’ I asked.
“你从哪里知道这个故事的？”我问。

‘I got the first hint in an inn on the Achensee in Tyrol. That set me inquiring, and I collected my other clues in a fur-shop in the Galician quarter of Buda, in a Strangers’ Club in Vienna, and in a little bookshop off the Racknitzstrasse in Leipsic. I completed my evidence ten days ago in Paris. I can’t tell you the details now, for it’s something of a history. When I was quite sure in my own mind I judged it my business to disappear, and I reached this city by a mighty queer circuit. I left Paris a dandified young French-American, and I sailed from Hamburg a Jew diamond merchant. In Norway I was an English student of Ibsen collecting materials for lectures, but when I left Bergen I was a cinema-man with special ski films. And I came here from Leith with a lot of pulp-wood propositions in my pocket to put before the London newspapers. Till yesterday I thought I had muddied my trail some, and was feeling pretty happy. Then ...’
“我在蒂罗尔州阿亨湖的一家旅馆里得到了第一个提示。这让我产生了疑问，我在布达加利西亚区的一家毛皮店、维也纳的陌生人俱乐部以及莱比西克的拉克尼茨街附近的一家小书店收集了其他线索。我十天前在巴黎完成了我的证据。我现在不能告诉你细节，因为这已经是一段历史了。当我心里十分确定时，我断定我的事就是消失，然后我绕了一条巨大的奇怪路线到达了这座城市。离开巴黎时，我是一位年轻的法裔美国人，是一位风度翩翩的年轻法裔美国人；我是一位犹太钻石商人，从汉堡出发。在挪威，我是易卜生的一名英语学生，收集讲座材料，但当我离开卑尔根时，我是一名制作特殊滑雪电影的电影人。我从利斯来到这里，口袋里装满了纸浆木材提案，可以在伦敦报纸上发表。直到昨天，我还以为我的足迹有些泥泞，而且感觉很高兴。然后 ...'

The recollection seemed to upset him, and he gulped down some more whisky.
回忆似乎让他心烦意乱，他又喝了一些威士忌。

‘Then I saw a man standing in the street outside this block. I used to stay close in my room all day, and only slip out after dark for an hour or two. I watched him for a bit from my window, and I thought I recognized him ... He came in and spoke to the porter ... When I came back from my walk last night I found a card in my letter-box. It bore the name of the man I want least to meet on God’s earth.’
“然后我看到一个男人站在这个街区外的街上。我过去常常整天呆在房间里，天黑后才溜出去一两个小时。我从窗户里看了他一会儿，我想我认出了他……他进来和门房说话……当我昨晚散步回来时，我在信箱里发现了一张卡片。它的名字是我在上帝的地球上最不想见到的人的名字。

I think that the look in my companion’s eyes, the sheer naked scare on his face, completed my conviction of his honesty. My own voice sharpened a bit as I asked him what he did next.
我认为我同伴的眼神和他脸上赤裸裸的恐惧使我更加确信他是诚实的。当我问他接下来要做什么时，我自己的声音有点尖锐。

‘I realized that I was bottled as sure as a pickled herring, and that there was only one way out. I had to die. If my pursuers knew I was dead they would go to sleep again.’
“我意识到我就像腌鲱鱼一样被装瓶了，只有一条出路。我必须死。如果追捕我的人知道我死了，他们就会再次入睡。

‘How did you manage it?’
“你是怎么做到的？”

‘I told the man that valets me that I was feeling pretty bad, and I got myself up to look like death. That wasn’t difficult, for I’m no slouch at disguises. Then I got a corpse you can always get a body in London if you know where to go for it. I fetched it back in a trunk on the top of a four-wheeler, and I had to be assisted upstairs to my room. You see I had to pile up some evidence for the inquest. I went to bed and got my man to mix me a sleepingdraught, and then told him to clear out. He wanted to fetch a doctor, but I swore some and said I couldn’t abide leeches. When I was left alone I started in to fake up that corpse. He was my size, and I judged had perished from too much alcohol, so I put some spirits handy about the place. The jaw was the weak point in the likeness, so I blew it away with a revolver. I daresay there will be somebody tomorrow to swear to having heard a shot, but there are no neighbours on my floor, and I guessed I could risk it. So I left the body in bed dressed up in my pyjamas, with a revolver lying on the bed-clothes and a considerable mess around. Then I got into a suit of clothes I had kept waiting for emergencies. I didn’t dare to shave for fear of leaving tracks, and besides, it wasn’t any kind of use my trying to get into the streets. I had had you in my mind all day, and there seemed nothing to do but to make an appeal to you. I watched from my window till I saw you come home, and then slipped down the stair to meet you ... There, Sir, I guess you know about as much as me of this business.’
“我告诉那个泊车的人，我感觉很糟糕，我把自己打扮得像死了一样。这并不困难，因为我在伪装方面毫不马虎。然后我得到了一具尸体，如果你知道去哪里找的话，你总能在伦敦找到尸体。我把它放在一辆四轮车顶上的行李箱里取回来，然后我不得不被搀扶到楼上我的房间。你看，我必须为调查收集一些证据。我上床睡觉，让我的男人给我配了安眠药，然后叫他出去。他想请医生来，但我咒骂了几句，说我不能忍受水蛭。当我独自一人时，我开始伪造那具尸体。他和我一样大，我判断他是因为喝太多酒而死的，所以我在这个地方放了一些烈酒。下巴是这个雕像的弱点，所以我用左轮手枪把它打掉了。我敢说明天会有人发誓听到枪声，但我所在的楼层没有邻居，我想我可以冒险。于是我把尸体留在床上，穿着睡衣，床上放着一把左轮手枪，周围一片狼藉。然后我穿上了一套我一直在等待紧急情况的衣服。我不敢刮胡子，生怕留下痕迹，而且，我想上街也没有任何用处。我一整天都把你放在心里，除了向你发出呼吁之外，似乎没有什么可做的。我从窗户里一直看着你回家，然后溜下楼梯去见你……好了，先生，我想你对这件事的了解和我一样多。

He sat blinking like an owl, fluttering with nerves and yet desperately determined. By this time I was pretty well convinced that he was going straight with me. It was the wildest sort of narrative, but I had heard in my time many steep tales which had turned out to be true, and I had made a practice of judging the man rather than the story. If he had wanted to get a location in my flat, and then cut my throat, he would have pitched a milder yarn.
他坐在那里，像猫头鹰一样眨着眼睛，紧张地颤抖着，但又绝望地坚定。这时候我已经非常确信他会直接跟我走。这是最疯狂的叙述，但我在那个时代听过许多尖锐的故事，但后来证明是真实的，而且我习惯于判断这个人而不是故事。如果他想在我的公寓里找到一个位置，然后割断我的喉咙，他会讲一个更温和的故事。

‘Hand me your key,’ I said, ‘and I’ll take a look at the corpse. Excuse my caution, but I’m bound to verify a bit if I can.’
“把你的钥匙给我，”我说，“我来看看尸体。”请原谅我的谨慎，但如果可以的话，我一定会验证一下。

He shook his head mournfully. ‘I reckoned you’d ask for that, but I haven’t got it. It’s on my chain on the dressing-table. I had to leave it behind, for I couldn’t leave any clues to breed suspicions. The gentry who are after me are pretty bright-eyed citizens. You’ll have to take me on trust for the night, and tomorrow you’ll get proof of the corpse business right enough.’
他悲痛地摇摇头。 “我猜你会要求这个，但我没有。”它在我梳妆台上的链子上。我不得不把它抛在脑后，因为我不能留下任何引起怀疑的线索。追随我的绅士都是非常聪明的公民。今晚你必须信任我，明天你就会得到尸体生意的证据。

I thought for an instant or two. ‘Right. I’ll trust you for the night. I’ll lock you into this room and keep the key. just one word, Mr Scudder. I believe you’re straight, but if so be you are not I should warn you that I’m a handy man with a gun.’
我想了一两分钟。 '正确的。今晚我会相信你。我会把你锁在这个房间里并保留钥匙。就一个字，斯卡德先生。我相信你是直人，但如果是这样，你就不是了，我应该警告你，我是一个拿着枪的得心应手的人。

‘Sure,’ he said, jumping up with some briskness. ‘I haven’t the privilege of your name, Sir, but let me tell you that you’re a white man. I’ll thank you to lend me a razor.’
“当然，”他说，轻快地跳了起来。 “先生，我无权知道你的名字，但让我告诉你，你是一个白人。我会感谢你借给我一把剃须刀。

I took him into my bedroom and turned him loose. In half an hour’s time a figure came out that I scarcely recognized. Only his gimlety, hungry eyes were the same. He was shaved clean, his hair was parted in the middle, and he had cut his eyebrows. Further, he carried himself as if he had been drilled, and was the very model, even to the brown complexion, of some British officer who had had a long spell in India. He had a monocle, too, which he stuck in his eye, and every trace of the American had gone out of his speech.
我把他带进我的卧室并把他放了出来。半小时后，一个我几乎认不出的人影出现了。只有他那双闪闪发亮、饥渴的眼睛还是一样的。他的胡子刮得干干净净，头发从中间分开，眉毛也被剪掉了。此外，他的举止就好像经过了训练一样，甚至是棕色肤色的一些长期驻扎在印度的英国军官的典范。他还戴着单片眼镜，把它戴在眼睛上，美国人的一切痕迹都从他的讲话中消失了。

‘My hat! Mr Scudder -’ I stammered.
'我的帽子！斯卡德先生——”我结结巴巴地说。

‘Not Mr Scudder,’ he corrected; ‘Captain Theophilus Digby, of the 40th Gurkhas, presently home on leave. I’ll thank you to remember that, Sir.’
“不是斯卡德先生，”他纠正道。 “第 40 廓尔喀部队的西奥菲勒斯·迪格比上尉目前正在休假回家。先生，我会感谢你记住这一点。

I made him up a bed in my smoking-room and sought my own couch, more cheerful than I had been for the past month. Things did happen occasionally, even in this God-forgotten metropolis.
我在吸烟室里给他铺了一张床，然后寻找自己的沙发，心情比过去一个月更加愉快。即使在这个被上帝遗忘的大都市里，事情确实偶尔会发生。

I woke next morning to hear my man, Paddock, making the deuce of a row at the smoking-room door. Paddock was a fellow I had done a good turn to out on the Selakwe, and I had inspanned him as my servant as soon as I got to England. He had about as much gift of the gab as a hippopotamus, and was not a great hand at valeting, but I knew I could count on his loyalty.
第二天早上我醒来，听到我的伙计帕多克在吸烟室门口大吵大闹。帕多克是我在塞拉奎河上帮了大忙的一个人，我一到英国就把他当作我的仆人。他的口才和河马一样多，而且不擅长泊车，但我知道我可以信赖他的忠诚。

‘Stop that row, Paddock,’ I said. ‘There’s a friend of mine, Captain Captain’ (I couldn’t remember the name) ‘dossing down in there. Get breakfast for two and then come and speak to me.’
“别再吵了，帕多克，”我说。 “我的一个朋友，船长”（我不记得名字了）“正在那里打瞌睡。”吃两个人的早餐，然后过来跟我说话。

I told Paddock a fine story about how my friend was a great swell, with his nerves pretty bad from overwork, who wanted absolute rest and stillness. Nobody had got to know he was here, or he would be besieged by communications from the India Office and the Prime Minister and his cure would be ruined. I am bound to say Scudder played up splendidly when he came to breakfast. He fixed Paddock with his eyeglass, just like a British officer, asked him about the Boer War, and slung out at me a lot of stuff about imaginary pals. Paddock couldn’t learn to call me ‘Sir’, but he ‘sirred’ Scudder as if his life depended on it.
我给帕多克讲了一个精彩的故事，讲述了我的朋友是如何一个伟大的人，他的神经因过度劳累而变得非常糟糕，他想要绝对的休息和安静。没有人知道他在这里，否则他会被印度办公室和总理的通讯围困，他的治疗就会被毁。我不得不说，斯卡德尔来吃早餐时表现得非常出色。他像英国军官一样用眼镜固定帕多克，向他询问布尔战争的情况，并向我抛出了很多关于想象中的朋友的东西。帕多克无法学会称呼我“先生”，但他却称呼斯卡德为“先生”，就好像他的生命依赖于此一样。

I left him with the newspaper and a box of cigars, and went down to the City till luncheon. When I got back the lift-man had an important face.
我给他留下了报纸和一盒雪茄，然后就去城里吃午饭了。当我回来时，电梯工的表情很重要。

‘Nawsty business ‘ere this morning, Sir. Gent in No. 15 been and shot ‘isself. They’ve just took ‘im to the mortiary. The police are up there now.’
“今天早上发生了一件令人恶心的事情，先生。” 15 号的根特被枪杀了。他们刚刚带他去太平间。警察现在就在那里。

I ascended to No. 15, and found a couple of bobbies and an inspector busy making an examination. I asked a few idiotic questions, and they soon kicked me out. Then I found the man that had valeted Scudder, and pumped him, but I could see he suspected nothing. He was a whining fellow with a churchyard face, and halfa-crown went far to console him.
我登上15号，发现几个保安和一个检查员正在忙着检查。我问了一些愚蠢的问题，他们很快就把我赶了出去。然后我找到了那个侍候斯卡德的人，并抽打了他，但我看得出他什么也没怀疑。他是个爱发牢骚、长着一张教堂墓地脸的家伙，半克朗足以安慰他。

I attended the inquest next day. A partner of some publishing firm gave evidence that the deceased had brought him wood-pulp propositions, and had been, he believed, an agent of an American business. The jury found it a case of suicide while of unsound mind, and the few effects were handed over to the American Consul to deal with. I gave Scudder a full account of the affair, and it interested him greatly. He said he wished he could have attended the inquest, for he reckoned it would be about as spicy as to read one’s own obituary notice.
第二天我参加了审讯。某出版公司的一位合伙人提供的证据表明，死者给他带来了木浆建议，并且他相信死者是一家美国企业的代理人。陪审团认定这是一起精神不正常自杀案，并将少量后遗症交给美国领事处理。我向斯卡德详细讲述了这件事，他对此非常感兴趣。他说他希望自己能够参加调查，因为他认为这就像阅读自己的讣告一样令人兴奋。

The first two days he stayed with me in that back room he was very peaceful. He read and smoked a bit, and made a heap of jottings in a note-book, and every night we had a game of chess, at which he beat me hollow. I think he was nursing his nerves back to health, for he had had a pretty trying time. But on the third day I could see he was beginning to get restless. He fixed up a list of the days till June 15th, and ticked each off with a red pencil, making remarks in shorthand against them. I would find him sunk in a brown study, with his sharp eyes abstracted, and after those spells of meditation he was apt to be very despondent.
头两天他和我一起待在后面的房间里，他非常平静。他读书，抽烟，在笔记本上记下一堆笔记，每天晚上我们都会下棋，他把我打败了。我认为他正在让自己的神经恢复健康，因为他度过了一段相当艰难的时光。但到了第三天，我发现他开始变得焦躁不安。他列出了截至 6 月 15 日的日子清单，并用红铅笔在每一天上勾了勾，并用速记方式对它们进行了评论。我会发现他沉浸在棕色的书房里，目光锐利，心不在焉，经过一段时间的冥想后，他很容易变得非常沮丧。

Then I could see that he began to get edgy again. He listened for little noises, and was always asking me if Paddock could be trusted. Once or twice he got very peevish, and apologized for it. I didn’t blame him. I made every allowance, for he had taken on a fairly stiff job.
然后我发现他又开始变得急躁了。他倾听细微的声音，并且总是问我帕多克是否值得信任。有一两次他变得非常暴躁，并为此道歉。我没有责怪他。我对他的工作给予了充分的体谅，因为他承担了相当艰巨的工作。

It was not the safety of his own skin that troubled him, but the success of the scheme he had planned. That little man was clean grit all through, without a soft spot in him. One night he was very solemn.
令他烦恼的不是他自己的人身安全，而是他所计划的计划能否成功。那小个子浑身都是干净的沙砾，没有一丝软弱之处。一天晚上，他显得非常严肃。

‘Say, Hannay,’ he said, ‘I judge I should let you a bit deeper into this business. I should hate to go out without leaving somebody else to put up a fight.’ And he began to tell me in detail what I had only heard from him vaguely.
“嘿，汉内，”他说，“我觉得我应该让你更深入地了解这件事。”我不想出去而不留下其他人去打架。”然后他开始详细地告诉我我从他那里听到的只是模糊的事情。

I did not give him very close attention. The fact is, I was more interested in his own adventures than in his high politics. I reckoned that Karolides and his affairs were not my business, leaving all that to him. So a lot that he said slipped clean out of my memory. I remember that he was very clear that the danger to Karolides would not begin till he had got to London, and would come from the very highest quarters, where there would be no thought of suspicion. He mentioned the name of a woman Julia Czechenyi as having something to do with the danger. She would be the decoy, I gathered, to get Karolides out of the care of his guards. He talked, too, about a Black Stone and a man that lisped in his speech, and he described very particularly somebody that he never referred to without a shudder an old man with a young voice who could hood his eyes like a hawk.
我没有给予他非常密切的关注。事实上，我对他自己的冒险经历比对他的高层政治更感兴趣。我认为卡罗利德斯和他的事情不关我的事，一切都交给他了。他说的很多话都从我的记忆中消失了。我记得他非常清楚，卡罗利德斯面临的危险要到他到达伦敦后才会开始，而且危险来自最高层，在那里不会有任何怀疑。他提到一位女性朱莉娅·捷克尼（Julia Czechenyi）的名字，称其与危险有关。我猜想，她会成为诱饵，让卡罗利德摆脱卫兵的照顾。他还谈到了一块黑石和一个说话口齿不清的人，他特别描述了一个他每次提到他都会不寒而栗的人，一个声音年轻的老人，可以像鹰一样遮住眼睛。

He spoke a good deal about death, too. He was mortally anxious about winning through with his job, but he didn’t care a rush for his life. ‘I reckon it’s like going to sleep when you are pretty well tired out, and waking to find a summer day with the scent of hay coming in at the window. I used to thank God for such mornings way back in the Blue-Grass country, and I guess I’ll thank Him when I wake up on the other side of Jordan.’
他也多次谈到死亡。他非常渴望能完成工作，但他并不关心自己的生活。 “我想这就像当你非常疲倦时去睡觉，醒来发现夏天的一天窗外飘来干草的香味。早在蓝草之乡，我就曾感谢上帝让我度过了这样的早晨，我想当我在约旦的另一边醒来时，我也会感谢他。

Next day he was much more cheerful, and read the life of Stonewall Jackson much of the time. I went out to dinner with a mining engineer I had got to see on business, and came back about half-past ten in time for our game of chess before turning in.
第二天，他心情愉快多了，大部分时间都在阅读斯通沃尔·杰克逊的生平。我和一位出差的采矿工程师一起出去吃晚饭，十点半左右回来，我们下棋，然后上床睡觉。

I had a cigar in my mouth, I remember, as I pushed open the smoking-room door. The lights were not lit, which struck me as odd. I wondered if Scudder had turned in already.
我记得，当我推开吸烟室的门时，我嘴里叼着一支雪茄。灯没有亮，这让我觉得很奇怪。我想知道斯卡德是否已经上床睡觉了。

I snapped the switch, but there was nobody there. Then I saw something in the far corner which made me drop my cigar and fall into a cold sweat.
我按下开关，但那里没有人。然后我看到远处角落里有什么东西，让我放下雪茄，出了一身冷汗。

My guest was lying sprawled on his back. There was a long knife through his heart which skewered him to the floor.
我的客人仰面躺着。一把长刀穿过他的心脏，将他刺倒在地。

CHAPTER TWO
第二章

The Milkman Sets Out on his Travels
送牛奶的人开始了他的旅行

I sat down in an armchair and felt very sick. That lasted for maybe five minutes, and was succeeded by a fit of the horrors. The poor staring white face on the floor was more than I could bear, and I managed to get a table-cloth and cover it. Then I staggered to a cupboard, found the brandy and swallowed several mouthfuls. I had seen men die violently before; indeed I had killed a few myself in the Matabele War; but this cold-blooded indoor business was different. Still I managed to pull myself together. I looked at my watch, and saw that it was half-past ten.
我坐在扶手椅上，感到非常恶心。这持续了大约五分钟，然后是一阵恐怖。地板上那张可怜兮兮的白脸让我无法忍受，我设法拿了一块桌布盖住它。然后我摇摇晃晃地走到一个柜子前，找到白兰地，喝了几口。我以前见过男人惨死；事实上，我自己在马塔贝莱战争中也杀过一些人。但这种冷血的室内生意却不同。但我还是设法振作起来。我看了看表，已经十点半了。

An idea seized me, and I went over the flat with a small-tooth comb. There was nobody there, nor any trace of anybody, but I shuttered and bolted all the windows and put the chain on the door. By this time my wits were coming back to me, and I could think again. It took me about an hour to figure the thing out, and I did not hurry, for, unless the murderer came back, I had till about six o’clock in the morning for my cogitations.
我灵机一动，用一把小齿梳子在公寓上梳了梳。那里没有人，也没有任何人的踪迹，但我关上了所有窗户并用螺栓闩上，并把链条挂在门上。这时我的神智才恢复过来，我可以重新思考了。我花了大约一个小时才弄清楚这件事，但我并不着急，因为除非凶手回来，否则我要到早上六点左右才能思考。

I was in the soup that was pretty clear. Any shadow of a doubt I might have had about the truth of Scudder’s tale was now gone. The proof of it was lying under the table-cloth. The men who knew that he knew what he knew had found him, and had taken the best way to make certain of his silence. Yes; but he had been in my rooms four days, and his enemies must have reckoned that he had confided in me. So I would be the next to go. It might be that very night, or next day, or the day after, but my number was up all right. Then suddenly I thought of another probability. Supposing I went out now and called in the police, or went to bed and let Paddock find the body and call them in the morning. What kind of a story was I to tell about Scudder? I had lied to Paddock about him, and the whole thing looked desperately fishy. If I made a clean breast of it and told the police everything he had told me, they would simply laugh at me. The odds were a thousand to one that I would be charged with the murder, and the circumstantial evidence was strong enough to hang me. Few people knew me in England; I had no real pal who could come forward and swear to my character. Perhaps that was what those secret enemies were playing for. They were clever enough for anything, and an English prison was as good a way of getting rid of me till after June 15th as a knife in my chest.
我在汤里，汤非常清澈。我对斯卡德故事的真实性可能抱有的任何怀疑现在都消失了。证据就在桌布下面。那些知道他知道他所知道的事情的人找到了他，并采取了最好的方式来确保他保持沉默。是的;但他已经在我的房间里呆了四天了，他的敌人一定认为他已经向我吐露了心声。所以我将是下一个去的人。可能是那天晚上，或者第二天，或者后天，但我的号码没问题。然后突然我想到了另一种可能性。假设我现在出去报警，或者上床睡觉，让帕多克找到尸体，早上给他们打电话。我该讲一个关于斯卡德的什么样的故事呢？关于他，我向帕多克撒了谎，整件事看起来非常可疑。如果我如实坦白并告诉警察他告诉我的一切，他们只会嘲笑我。我被指控谋杀的可能性是千分之一，而间接证据足以绞死我。在英国很少有人认识我；我没有真正的朋友可以站出来向我发誓。也许这就是那些秘密敌人所玩弄的目的。他们对任何事情都很聪明，在 6 月 15 日之后，英国监狱是摆脱我的好方法，就像一把刀插在我的胸口一样。

Besides, if I told the whole story, and by any miracle was believed, I would be playing their game. Karolides would stay at home, which was what they wanted. Somehow or other the sight of Scudder’s dead face had made me a passionate believer in his scheme. He was gone, but he had taken me into his confidence, and I was pretty well bound to carry on his work.
此外，如果我讲述了整个故事，并且相信有任何奇迹，我就会玩他们的游戏。卡罗利德斯会待在家里，这正是他们想要的。不知何故，看到斯卡德那张死气沉沉的脸，我对他的计划深信不疑。他走了，但他对我很信任，我很有责任继续他的工作。

You may think this ridiculous for a man in danger of his life, but that was the way I looked at it. I am an ordinary sort of fellow, not braver than other people, but I hate to see a good man downed, and that long knife would not be the end of Scudder if I could play the game in his place.
你可能会认为这对于一个有生命危险的人来说很荒谬，但我就是这么看的。我是一个普通人，并不比其他人勇敢，但我讨厌看到一个好人被击倒，如果我能代替斯卡德玩这个游戏，那把长刀就不会是斯卡德的终结。

It took me an hour or two to think this out, and by that time I had come to a decision. I must vanish somehow, and keep vanished till the end of the second week in June. Then I must somehow find a way to get in touch with the Government people and tell them what Scudder had told me. I wished to Heaven he had told me more, and that I had listened more carefully to the little he had told me. I knew nothing but the barest facts. There was a big risk that, even if I weathered the other dangers, I would not be believed in the end. I must take my chance of that, and hope that something might happen which would confirm my tale in the eyes of the Government.
我花了一两个小时思考这个问题，那时我已经做出了决定。我必须以某种方式消失，并且一直消失到六月的第二周结束。然后我必须想办法与政府人员取得联系并告诉他们斯卡德告诉我的事情。我真希望老天爷能告诉我更多，也希望我能更仔细地聆听他告诉我的那一点点。除了最基本的事实之外，我一无所知。存在很大的风险，即使我经受住了其他危险，最终也不会被相信。我必须抓住这个机会，并希望可能发生一些事情，使我的故事在政府眼中得到证实。

My first job was to keep going for the next three weeks. It was now the 24th day of May, and that meant twenty days of hiding before I could venture to approach the powers that be. I reckoned that two sets of people would be looking for me Scudder’s enemies to put me out of existence, and the police, who would want me for Scudder’s murder. It was going to be a giddy hunt, and it was queer how the prospect comforted me. I had been slack so long that almost any chance of activity was welcome. When I had to sit alone with that corpse and wait on Fortune I was no better than a crushed worm, but if my neck’s safety was to hang on my own wits I was prepared to be cheerful about it.
我的第一份工作是在接下来的三周内继续前进。现在是 5 月 24 日，这意味着我要躲藏二十天才能冒险接近当权者。我估计有两类人会寻找我——斯卡德的敌人，想让我消失；还有警察，他们会因谋杀斯卡德而通缉我。这将是一次令人眼花缭乱的狩猎，奇怪的是，这个前景却让我感到安慰。我已经闲置太久了，几乎任何活动的机会都是受欢迎的。当我不得不独自坐在那具尸体旁边等待命运时，我并不比一条被压碎的蠕虫更好，但如果我的脖子的安全取决于我自己的智慧，我准备对此感到高兴。

My next thought was whether Scudder had any papers about him to give me a better clue to the business. I drew back the table-cloth and searched his pockets, for I had no longer any shrinking from the body. The face was wonderfully calm for a man who had been struck down in a moment. There was nothing in the breast-pocket, and only a few loose coins and a cigar-holder in the waistcoat. The trousers held a little penknife and some silver, and the side pocket of his jacket contained an old crocodile-skin cigar-case. There was no sign of the little black book in which I had seen him making notes. That had no doubt been taken by his murderer.
我的下一个想法是斯卡德是否有任何关于他的文件可以让我更好地了解这件事。我拉开桌布，搜查他的口袋，因为我已经不再对他的身体感到畏缩了。对于一个瞬间被击倒的人来说，脸上的表情出奇的平静。胸前的口袋里什么也没有，背心里只有几枚零钱和一个雪茄烟嘴。裤子里放着一把小刀和一些银器，夹克的侧袋里放着一个旧鳄鱼皮雪茄盒。没有看到他做笔记的那本小黑本。毫无疑问，那是凶手拿走的。

But as I looked up from my task I saw that some drawers had been pulled out in the writing-table. Scudder would never have left them in that state, for he was the tidiest of mortals. Someone must have been searching for something perhaps for the pocket-book.
但当我从工作中抬起头时，我发现写字台上的一些抽屉被拉了出来。斯卡德绝对不会让他们处于这种状态，因为他是凡人中最整洁的。肯定有人在寻找什么东西，也许是为了钱包。

I went round the flat and found that everything had been ransacked the inside of books, drawers, cupboards, boxes, even the pockets of the clothes in my wardrobe, and the sideboard in the dining-room. There was no trace of the book. Most likely the enemy had found it, but they had not found it on Scudder’s body.
我在公寓里转了一圈，发现里面的书、抽屉、橱柜、盒子，甚至衣柜里的衣服口袋和餐厅的餐具柜里的所有东西都被洗劫一空。没有看到那本书的踪迹。很可能是敌人发现了它，但他们并没有在斯卡德的身上发现它。

Then I got out an atlas and looked at a big map of the British Isles. My notion was to get off to some wild district, where my veldcraft would be of some use to me, for I would be like a trapped rat in a city. I considered that Scotland would be best, for my people were Scotch and I could pass anywhere as an ordinary Scotsman. I had half an idea at first to be a German tourist, for my father had had German partners, and I had been brought up to speak the tongue pretty fluently, not to mention having put in three years prospecting for copper in German Damaraland. But I calculated that it would be less conspicuous to be a Scot, and less in a line with what the police might know of my past. I fixed on Galloway as the best place to go. It was the nearest wild part of Scotland, so far as I could figure it out, and from the look of the map was not over thick with population.
然后我拿出一本地图集，看了一下不列颠群岛的大地图。我的想法是去某个荒野地区，在那里我的草原技能对我会有一些用处，因为我就像一只被困在城市里的老鼠。我认为苏格兰是最好的，因为我的人民是苏格兰人，我可以作为一个普通的苏格兰人去任何地方。我一开始有半个想法要成为一名德国游客，因为我父亲有过德国合伙人，而且我从小就被教育说得说一口流利的语言，更不用说在德国达马拉兰花了三年时间勘探铜矿。但我计算出，身为苏格兰人会不那么引人注目，也不太符合警方对我过去的了解。我确定加洛韦是最好的去处。据我所知，这是苏格兰最近的野生地区，而且从地图上看，人口并不算稠密。

A search in Bradshaw informed me that a train left St Pancras at 7.10, which would land me at any Galloway station in the late afternoon. That was well enough, but a more important matter was how I was to make my way to St Pancras, for I was pretty certain that Scudder’s friends would be watching outside. This puzzled me for a bit; then I had an inspiration, on which I went to bed and slept for two troubled hours.
在布拉德肖搜索后，我得知一列火车于 7 点 10 分从圣潘克拉斯出发，下午晚些时候我可以在任意加洛韦车站下车。这已经足够了，但更重要的是我如何前往圣潘克拉斯，因为我很确定斯卡德的朋友们会在外面看着。这让我有点困惑；然后我有了一个灵感，我就上床睡觉，睡了两个小时。

I got up at four and opened my bedroom shutters. The faint light of a fine summer morning was flooding the skies, and the sparrows had begun to chatter. I had a great revulsion of feeling, and felt a God-forgotten fool. My inclination was to let things slide, and trust to the British police taking a reasonable view of my case. But as I reviewed the situation I could find no arguments to bring against my decision of the previous night, so with a wry mouth I resolved to go on with my plan. I was not feeling in any particular funk; only disinclined to go looking for trouble, if you understand me.
我四点起床，打开卧室的百叶窗。夏日清晨的微弱阳光洒满天空，麻雀们开始叽叽喳喳地叫个不停。我有一种强烈的厌恶感，觉得自己是一个被上帝遗忘的傻瓜。我倾向于让事情顺其自然，并相信英国警方会合理地看待我的案件。但当我回顾当时的情况时，我发现没有任何理由可以反对我前一天晚上的决定，所以我苦笑着决定继续我的计划。我并没有感到任何特别的恐惧。只是不愿意去找麻烦，如果你理解我的话。

I hunted out a well-used tweed suit, a pair of strong nailed boots, and a flannel shirt with a collar. Into my pockets I stuffed a spare shirt, a cloth cap, some handkerchiefs, and a tooth-brush. I had drawn a good sum in gold from the bank two days before, in case Scudder should want money, and I took fifty pounds of it in sovereigns in a belt which I had brought back from Rhodesia. That was about all I wanted. Then I had a bath, and cut my moustache, which was long and drooping, into a short stubbly fringe.
我找到了一套用过的粗花呢套装、一双坚固的带钉靴子和一件有领法兰绒衬衫。我在口袋里塞了一件备用衬衫、一顶布帽、一些手帕和一把牙刷。两天前，我从银行取出了一大笔黄金，以防斯卡德需要钱，我从罗得西亚带回来的腰带里带了五十英镑的金币。这就是我想要的一切。然后我洗了个澡，把又长又下垂的小胡子剪成了短短的胡茬。

Now came the next step. Paddock used to arrive punctually at 7.30 and let himself in with a latch-key. But about twenty minutes to seven, as I knew from bitter experience, the milkman turned up with a great clatter of cans, and deposited my share outside my door. I had seen that milkman sometimes when I had gone out for an early ride. He was a young man about my own height, with an ill-nourished moustache, and he wore a white overall. On him I staked all my chances.
现在到了下一步。帕多克过去常常在 7.30 准时到达，并用钥匙开门。但大约七点差二十分钟，我从痛苦的经历中知道，送牛奶的人带着罐头的巨大响声出现了，把我的那一份放在门外。我有时早出去骑车时见过那个送牛奶的人。他是个和我身高相仿的年轻人，留着营养不良的小胡子，穿着白色工作服。我把所有的机会都押在了他身上。

I went into the darkened smoking-room where the rays of morning light were beginning to creep through the shutters. There I breakfasted off a whisky-and-soda and some biscuits from the cupboard. By this time it was getting on for six o’clock. I put a pipe in My Pocket and filled my pouch from the tobacco jar on the table by the fireplace.
我走进黑暗的吸烟室，晨光开始从百叶窗里透进来。在那里，我吃了一杯威士忌苏打水和橱柜里的一些饼干。这时已经六点了。我把烟斗放进口袋里，然后从壁炉旁桌子上的烟草罐里装满我的烟袋。

As I poked into the tobacco my fingers touched something hard, and I drew out Scudder’s little black pocket-book ...
当我伸进烟草时，我的手指碰到了一些坚硬的东西，我掏出了斯卡德的黑色小皮夹……

That seemed to me a good omen. I lifted the cloth from the body and was amazed at the peace and dignity of the dead face. ‘Goodbye, old chap,’ I said; ‘I am going to do my best for you. Wish me well, wherever you are.’
在我看来，这是一个好兆头。我揭开尸体上的布，对死者脸上的平静和尊严感到惊讶。 “再见，老伙计，”我说。 ‘我会为你竭尽全力。祝我一切顺利，无论你在哪里。

Then I hung about in the hall waiting for the milkman. That was the worst part of the business, for I was fairly choking to get out of doors. Six-thirty passed, then six-forty, but still he did not come. The fool had chosen this day of all days to be late.
然后我在大厅里闲逛，等待送牛奶的人。这是这件事中最糟糕的部分，因为我几乎不敢出门。六点三十分过去了，六点四十过去了，但他还是没有来。傻瓜选择了这一天来迟到。

At one minute after the quarter to seven I heard the rattle of the cans outside. I opened the front door, and there was my man, singling out my cans from a bunch he carried and whistling through his teeth. He jumped a bit at the sight of me.
七点一刻过后一分钟，我听到外面罐头罐的嘎嘎声。我打开前门，我的伙计就在那里，从他随身携带的一堆罐子中挑选出我的罐头，并用牙齿吹着口哨。他一看到我就有点跳了起来。

‘Come in here a moment,’ I said. ‘I want a word with you.’ And I led him into the dining-room.
“请到这里来一下，”我说。 “我想和你说句话。”我领着他走进餐厅。

‘I reckon you’re a bit of a sportsman,’ I said, ‘and I want you to do me a service. Lend me your cap and overall for ten minutes, and here’s a sovereign for you.’
“我认为你有点像运动员，”我说，“我希望你能为我服务。”把你的帽子和工作服借给我十分钟，这是一个给你的金镑。

His eyes opened at the sight of the gold, and he grinned broadly. ‘Wot’s the gyme?’he asked.
当他看到金色的时候，他的眼睛睁开了，他咧嘴笑了。 “健身房在哪里？”他问。

‘A bet,’ I said. ‘I haven’t time to explain, but to win it I’ve got to be a milkman for the next ten minutes. All you’ve got to do is to stay here till I come back. You’ll be a bit late, but nobody will complain, and you’ll have that quid for yourself.’
“打赌，”我说。 “我没有时间解释，但为了赢得比赛，我必须在接下来的十分钟里充当送奶工。你所要做的就是留在这里直到我回来。你会迟到一点，但没有人会抱怨，而且你会自己得到那一英镑。

‘Right-o!’ he said cheerily. ‘I ain’t the man to spoil a bit of sport. ‘Ere’s the rig, guv’nor.’
“对啊！”他高兴地说。 “我不是那种破坏体育运动的人。 “这是钻机，长官。”

I stuck on his flat blue hat and his white overall, picked up the cans, banged my door, and went whistling downstairs. The porter at the foot told me to shut my jaw, which sounded as if my make-up was adequate.
我戴上他的蓝色平顶帽子和白色工作服，拿起罐子，砰地一声关上门，吹着口哨下了楼。脚下的搬运工让我闭上下巴，听起来好像我的妆很合适。

At first I thought there was nobody in the street. Then I caught sight of a policeman a hundred yards down, and a loafer shuffling past on the other side. Some impulse made me raise my eyes to the house opposite, and there at a first-floor window was a face. As the loafer passed he looked up, and I fancied a signal was exchanged.
起初我以为街上没有人。然后我看到一百码外有一名警察，另一边有一个懒汉拖着脚走过。某种冲动让我抬起眼睛看向对面的房子，在一楼的窗户上有一张脸。当那个懒汉走过时，他抬起头来，我猜想他们交换了信号。

I crossed the street, whistling gaily and imitating the jaunty swing of the milkman. Then I took the first side street, and went up a left-hand turning which led past a bit of vacant ground. There was no one in the little street, so I dropped the milk-cans inside the hoarding and sent the cap and overall after them. I had only just put on my cloth cap when a postman came round the corner. I gave him good morning and he answered me unsuspiciously. At the moment the clock of a neighbouring church struck the hour of seven.
我穿过街道，快乐地吹着口哨，模仿着送奶工欢快的摇摆动作。然后我走上第一条小街，拐上一个左拐，经过一小块空地。小街上没有人，所以我把牛奶罐扔进了围板里，然后把瓶盖和衣服都送到了他们后面。我刚戴上布帽，就有一个邮递员从拐角处走过来。我向他道了早安，他毫不怀疑地回答了我。此刻，邻近教堂的时钟敲响了七点。

There was not a second to spare. As soon as I got to Euston Road I took to my heels and ran. The clock at Euston Station showed five minutes past the hour. At St Pancras I had no time to take a ticket, let alone that I had not settled upon my destination. A porter told me the platform, and as I entered it I saw the train already in motion. Two station officials blocked the way, but I dodged them and clambered into the last carriage.
没有一秒钟的空闲时间。我一到达尤斯顿路，就拔腿就跑。尤斯顿车站的时钟显示已经过五分钟了。在圣潘克拉斯我没有时间买票，更何况我还没有确定目的地。搬运工告诉我站台，当我进去时，我看到火车已经在行驶了。两个车站工作人员挡住了路，我躲开了他们，爬上了最后一节车厢。

Three minutes later, as we were roaring through the northern tunnels, an irate guard interviewed me. He wrote out for me a ticket to Newton-Stewart, a name which had suddenly come back to my memory, and he conducted me from the first-class compartment where I had ensconced myself to a third-class smoker, occupied by a sailor and a stout woman with a child. He went off grumbling, and as I mopped my brow I observed to my companions in my broadest Scots that it was a sore job catching trains. I had already entered upon my part.
三分钟后，当我们呼啸着穿过北部隧道时，一名愤怒的警卫询问了我。他为我写了一张去牛顿-斯图尔特的机票，这个名字突然出现在我的记忆中，他带我离开头等舱，我在那里安顿了一个三等吸烟者，里面坐着一个水手，一个带着孩子的粗壮女人他抱怨着走开，当我擦着额头时，我用我最广泛的苏格兰语对我的同伴说，赶火车是一项痛苦的工作。我已经开始履行自己的职责了。

‘The impidence o’ that gyaird!’ said the lady bitterly. ‘He needit a Scotch tongue to pit him in his place. He was complainin’ o’ this wean no haein’ a ticket and her no fower till August twalmonth, and he was objectin’ to this gentleman spittin’.’
“那个家伙太无耻了！”那位女士痛苦地说。 “他需要苏格兰舌头才能让他回到原来的位置。”他抱怨这个断奶没有票，她直到八月二月才收到礼物，他反对这位绅士随地吐痰。

The sailor morosely agreed, and I started my new life in an atmosphere of protest against authority. I reminded myself that a week ago I had been finding the world dull.
水手闷闷不乐地同意了，我就在抗议权威的气氛中开始了新的生活。我提醒自己，一周前我一直觉得这个世界很乏味。

CHAPTER THREE
第三章

The Adventure of the Literary Innkeeper
文学客栈老板的冒险

I had a solemn time travelling north that day. It was fine May weather, with the hawthorn flowering on every hedge, and I asked myself why, when I was still a free man, I had stayed on in London and not got the good of this heavenly country. I didn’t dare face the restaurant car, but I got a luncheon-basket at Leeds and shared it with the fat woman. Also I got the morning’s papers, with news about starters for the Derby and the beginning of the cricket season, and some paragraphs about how Balkan affairs were settling down and a British squadron was going to Kiel.
那天我向北旅行，度过了一段庄严的时光。五月的天气很好，山楂树在每个树篱上开花，我问自己，为什么当我还是一个自由人时，我留在伦敦而没有享受到这个天堂般的国家的好处。我不敢面对餐车，但我在利兹买了一个午餐篮，和那个胖女人分享。我还收到了早报，其中有关于德比首发和板球赛季开始的新闻，还有一些关于巴尔干事务如何安定下来以及一支英国中队将前往基尔的段落。

When I had done with them I got out Scudder’s little black pocket-book and studied it. It was pretty well filled with jottings, chiefly figures, though now and then a name was printed in. For example, I found the words ‘Hofgaard’, ‘Luneville’, and ‘Avocado’ pretty often, and especially the word ‘Pavia’.
当我处理完它们后，我拿出斯卡德的黑色小皮夹仔细研究起来。里面充满了笔记，主要是数字，尽管偶尔会印上名字。例如，我经常发现“Hofgaard”、“Luneville”和“Avocado”这些词，尤其是“Pavia”这个词。

Now I was certain that Scudder never did anything without a reason, and I was pretty sure that there was a cypher in all this. That is a subject which has always interested me, and I did a bit at it myself once as intelligence officer at Delagoa Bay during the Boer War. I have a head for things like chess and puzzles, and I used to reckon myself pretty good at finding out cyphers. This one looked like the numerical kind where sets of figures correspond to the letters of the alphabet, but any fairly shrewd man can find the clue to that sort after an hour or two’s work, and I didn’t think Scudder would have been content with anything so easy. So I fastened on the printed words, for you can make a pretty good numerical cypher if you have a key word which gives you the sequence of the letters.
现在我确信斯卡德从来不会无缘无故地做任何事，而且我很确定这一切都暗藏玄机。这是我一直感兴趣的一个主题，在布尔战争期间，我曾在德拉戈亚湾担任情报官员，自己也做过一些研究。我对国际象棋和谜题等事物很感兴趣，而且我曾经认为自己很擅长找出密码。这个看起来像是数字类型的，其中一组数字对应于字母表中的字母，但是任何相当精明的人都可以在一两个小时的工作后找到这种类型的线索，而且我认为斯卡德不会满足于此一切都那么容易。所以我把打印的文字固定在上面，因为如果你有一个可以给出字母顺序的关键词，你就可以写出一个很好的数字密码。

I tried for hours, but none of the words answered. Then I fell asleep and woke at Dumfries just in time to bundle out and get into the slow Galloway train. There was a man on the platform whose looks I didn’t like, but he never glanced at me, and when I caught sight of myself in the mirror of an automatic machine I didn’t wonder. With my brown face, my old tweeds, and my slouch, I was the very model of one of the hill farmers who were crowding into the third-class carriages.
我试了好几个小时，但没有一个词能回答我的问题。然后我睡着了，在邓弗里斯醒来，正好赶上捆绑并登上缓慢的加洛韦火车。站台上有一个男人，他的长相我不喜欢，但他从来没有看我一眼，当我在自动机器的镜子里看到自己时，我并没有感到奇怪。我的棕色脸庞、旧花呢衣服和无精打采的样子，简直就是挤进三等车厢的山里农民的典范。

I travelled with half a dozen in an atmosphere of shag and clay pipes. They had come from the weekly market, and their mouths were full of prices. I heard accounts of how the lambing had gone up the Cairn and the Deuch and a dozen other mysterious waters. Above half the men had lunched heavily and were highly flavoured with whisky, but they took no notice of me. We rumbled slowly into a land of little wooded glens and then to a great wide moorland place, gleaming with lochs, with high blue hills showing northwards.
我和六个人一起在粗毛和粘土烟斗的气氛中旅行。他们是从每周集市过来的，嘴里满是价格。我听说过小羊羔如何顺着凯恩河、多赫河以及其他十几个神秘水域而上的故事。超过一半的人午餐吃得很饱，并且喝了很多威士忌，但他们没有注意到我。我们慢慢地驶入一片树木繁茂的小峡谷，然后来到一片广阔的沼泽地，湖光闪闪，蓝色的高山向北显现。

About five o’clock the carriage had emptied, and I was left alone as I had hoped. I got out at the next station, a little place whose name I scarcely noted, set right in the heart of a bog. It reminded me of one of those forgotten little stations in the Karroo. An old station-master was digging in his garden, and with his spade over his shoulder sauntered to the train, took charge of a parcel, and went back to his potatoes. A child of ten received my ticket, and I emerged on a white road that straggled over the brown moor.
大约五点钟，车厢已经空了，正如我所希望的那样，只剩下我一个人。我在下一站下了车，那是一个我几乎没注意到名字的小地方，就在沼泽的中心。它让我想起卡鲁那些被遗忘的小车站之一。一位老站长正在花园里挖土，肩上扛着铁锹，悠闲地走向火车，接过一个包裹，然后又回去挖土豆。一个十岁的孩子收到了我的票，我出现在一条蜿蜒穿过棕色荒原的白色道路上。

It was a gorgeous spring evening, with every hill showing as clear as a cut amethyst. The air had the queer, rooty smell of bogs, but it was as fresh as mid-ocean, and it had the strangest effect on my spirits. I actually felt light-hearted. I might have been a boy out for a spring holiday tramp, instead of a man of thirty-seven very much wanted by the police. I felt just as I used to feel when I was starting for a big trek on a frosty morning on the high veld. If you believe me, I swung along that road whistling. There was no plan of campaign in my head, only just to go on and on in this blessed, honest-smelling hill country, for every mile put me in better humour with myself.
那是一个美丽的春天的夜晚，每座山丘都清晰可见，就像切割的紫水晶一样。空气中弥漫着沼泽的奇怪气味，但又像海洋中一样清新，对我的精神产生了最奇怪的影响。我实际上感到轻松。我可能是一个春假流浪的男孩，而不是一个被警察通缉的三十七岁男人。我的感觉就像以前在一个寒冷的早晨在高地开始长途跋涉时的感觉一样。如果你相信我，我吹着口哨沿着那条路荡来荡去。我脑子里没有任何竞选计划，只是在这片幸福的、散发着诚实气味的山地里继续前进，因为每一英里都让我对自己更有幽默感。

In a roadside planting I cut a walking-stick of hazel, and presently struck off the highway up a bypath which followed the glen of a brawling stream. I reckoned that I was still far ahead of any pursuit, and for that night might please myself. It was some hours since I had tasted food, and I was getting very hungry when I came to a herd’s cottage set in a nook beside a waterfall. A brown-faced woman was standing by the door, and greeted me with the kindly shyness of moorland places. When I asked for a night’s lodging she said I was welcome to the ‘bed in the loft’, and very soon she set before me a hearty meal of ham and eggs, scones, and thick sweet milk.
我在路边种植的一棵榛树上砍下一根手杖，不久就离开了高速公路，沿着一条小路沿着一条湍急的溪流行驶。我认为我仍然遥遥领先于任何追求，因为那天晚上可能会让我自己高兴。我已经好几个小时没尝过食物了，当我来到瀑布旁边一个角落里的牛群小屋时，我感到非常饿。一位棕色脸的女人站在门口，用荒野里那种亲切的羞涩向我打招呼。当我要求过夜时，她说欢迎我入住“阁楼的床”，很快她就给我准备了一顿丰盛的大餐，包括火腿、鸡蛋、烤饼和浓甜的牛奶。

At the darkening her man came in from the hills, a lean giant, who in one step covered as much ground as three paces of ordinary mortals. They asked me no questions, for they had the perfect breeding of all dwellers in the wilds, but I could see they set me down as a kind of dealer, and I took some trouble to confirm their view. I spoke a lot about cattle, of which my host knew little, and I picked up from him a good deal about the local Galloway markets, which I tucked away in my memory for future use. At ten I was nodding in my chair, and the ‘bed in the loft’ received a weary man who never opened his eyes till five o’clock set the little homestead a-going once more.
天黑时，她的男人从山里走了进来，是一个瘦削的巨人，他一步所走的土地相当于普通凡人三步那么大。他们没有问我任何问题，因为他们拥有所有野外居民的完美繁殖，但我可以看出他们将我视为经销商，我费了一些功夫来证实他们的观点。我谈论了很多关于牛的事情，而我的主人对此知之甚少，我从他那里学到了很多关于当地加洛韦市场的信息，我把它们藏在我的记忆中以备将来使用。十点钟，我在椅子上点头，“阁楼上的床上”接待了一个疲惫的人，他从来没有睁开眼睛，直到五点钟让这个小宅基地再次开始运转。

They refused any payment, and by six I had breakfasted and was striding southwards again. My notion was to return to the railway line a station or two farther on than the place where I had alighted yesterday and to double back. I reckoned that that was the safest way, for the police would naturally assume that I was always making farther from London in the direction of some western port. I thought I had still a good bit of a start, for, as I reasoned, it would take some hours to fix the blame on me, and several more to identify the fellow who got on board the train at St Pancras.
他们拒绝支付任何费用，六点钟我吃完早餐，又大步向南走去。我的想法是返回比昨天下车的地方远一两站的铁路线，然后折返。我认为这是最安全的方式，因为警察自然会认为我总是在远离伦敦，前往西部港口的方向。我认为我还有一个很好的开始，因为，正如我推理的那样，需要几个小时才能将责任归咎于我，并且需要几个小时才能识别在圣潘克拉斯登上火车的人。

it was the same jolly, clear spring weather, and I simply could not contrive to feel careworn. Indeed I was in better spirits than I had been for months. Over a long ridge of moorland I took my road, skirting the side of a high hill which the herd had called Cairnsmore of Fleet. Nesting curlews and plovers were crying everywhere, and the links of green pasture by the streams were dotted with young lambs. All the slackness of the past months was slipping from my bones, and I stepped out like a four-year-old. By-and-by I came to a swell of moorland which dipped to the vale of a little river, and a mile away in the heather I saw the smoke of a train.
春天的天气同样令人愉快、晴朗，我根本无法感到忧虑。事实上，我的精神状态比这几个月来要好。越过荒原的一条长长的山脊，我沿着一座高山的一侧走上我的路，牛群把这座山称为凯恩斯莫尔舰队。筑巢的麻鹬和鸻到处都在啼叫，溪边的绿色牧场上点缀着小羊羔。过去几个月的所有懈怠都从我的骨头里消失了，我像一个四岁的孩子一样走出去。不久，我来到了一片荒原，一直延伸到一条小河的河谷，在一英里外的石南丛中，我看到了一列火车冒出的烟。

The station, when I reached it, proved to be ideal for my purpose. The moor surged up around it and left room only for the single line, the slender siding, a waiting-room, an office, the stationmaster’s cottage, and a tiny yard of gooseberries and sweet-william. There seemed no road to it from anywhere, and to increase the desolation the waves of a tarn lapped on their grey granite beach half a mile away. I waited in the deep heather till I saw the smoke of an east-going train on the horizon. Then I approached the tiny booking-office and took a ticket for Dumfries.
当我到达车站时，事实证明它非常适合我的目的。周围的荒野汹涌澎湃，只留下了单行线、细长的壁线、候车室、办公室、站长的小屋，以及一个种有醋栗和甜威廉的小院子。似乎没有任何道路可以从任何地方通往那里，而半英里外的一个塔恩湖的波浪拍打着灰色的花岗岩海滩，更增添了荒凉的感觉。我在浓密的石南丛中等待，直到看到地平线上一列向东行驶的火车冒出的烟雾。然后我走到狭小的售票处，买了一张去邓弗里斯的票。

The only occupants of the carriage were an old shepherd and his dog a wall-eyed brute that I mistrusted. The man was asleep, and on the cushions beside him was that morning’s SCOTSMAN. Eagerly I seized on it, for I fancied it would tell me something.
马车上唯一的乘客是一位老牧羊人和他的狗，那是一只我不信任的白眼畜生。那人已经睡着了，他旁边的垫子上坐着那天早上的苏格兰人。我急切地抓住它，因为我想它会告诉我一些事情。

There were two columns about the Portland Place Murder, as it was called. My man Paddock had given the alarm and had the milkman arrested. Poor devil, it looked as if the latter had earned his sovereign hardly; but for me he had been cheap at the price, for he seemed to have occupied the police for the better part of the day. In the latest news I found a further instalment of the story. The milkman had been released, I read, and the true criminal, about whose identity the police were reticent, was believed to have got away from London by one of the northern lines. There was a short note about me as the owner of the flat. I guessed the police had stuck that in, as a clumsy contrivance to persuade me that I was unsuspected.
有两篇专栏是关于波特兰广场谋杀案的。我的伙计帕多克发出警报并逮捕了送奶工。可怜的家伙，看来后者很难赢得他的主权。但对我来说，他的价格很便宜，因为他似乎在一天的大部分时间里都在忙于警察。在最新的新闻中，我发现了这个故事的另一部分。我读到，送牛奶的人已经被释放了，而真正的罪犯——警方对他的身份却三缄其口——据信是通过北部线路之一逃离伦敦的。有一张关于我作为公寓主人的简短说明。我猜警察把它塞进去了，作为一个笨拙的设计来让我相信我没有受到怀疑。

There was nothing else in the paper, nothing about foreign politics or Karolides, or the things that had interested Scudder. I laid it down, and found that we were approaching the station at which I had got out yesterday. The potato-digging station-master had been gingered up into some activity, for the west-going train was waiting to let us pass, and from it had descended three men who were asking him questions. I supposed that they were the local police, who had been stirred up by Scotland Yard, and had traced me as far as this one-horse siding. Sitting well back in the shadow I watched them carefully. One of them had a book, and took down notes. The old potato-digger seemed to have turned peevish, but the child who had collected my ticket was talking volubly. All the party looked out across the moor where the white road departed. I hoped they were going to take up my tracks there.
报纸上没有其他内容，没有任何关于外国政治或卡罗利德斯的内容，也没有任何斯卡德感兴趣的事情。我放下它，发现我们正在接近我昨天下车的车站。挖土豆的站长已经做好了准备，因为西行的火车正在等待让我们通过，从车上下来三个人正在问他问题。我猜他们是当地警察，受到苏格兰场的煽动，一直追踪到我这一处独马专用道。我坐在阴影里仔细地观察着他们。其中一人有一本书，并记下了笔记。老挖土豆的人似乎变得脾气暴躁，但收我票的孩子却在滔滔不绝地说话。一行人都眺望着白色道路的起点处的荒野。我希望他们能在那里追踪我的踪迹。

As we moved away from that station my companion woke up. He fixed me with a wandering glance, kicked his dog viciously, and inquired where he was. Clearly he was very drunk. ‘That’s what comes o’ bein’ a teetotaller,’ he observed in bitter regret.
当我们离开那个车站时，我的同伴醒了。他用飘忽的眼神看着我，恶狠狠地踢了他的狗，并询问他在哪里。显然他喝得很醉。 “这就是滴酒不沾的后果。”他痛苦地遗憾地说。

I expressed my surprise that in him I should have met a blueribbon stalwart.
我表示很惊讶，在他身上我竟然遇到了一位蓝带坚定的人。

‘Ay, but I’m a strong teetotaller,’ he said pugnaciously. ‘I took the pledge last Martinmas, and I havena touched a drop o’ whisky sinsyne. Not even at Hogmanay, though I was sair temptit.’
“是的，但我是一个坚决不喝酒的人，”他好斗地说。 “我在去年的马丁节做出了这样的承诺，而且我还没有碰过一滴威士忌。”即使在除夕夜我也没有，尽管我很诱惑。

He swung his heels up on the seat, and burrowed a frowsy head into the cushions.
他把脚跟抬起来放在座位上，把闷闷不乐的头埋进垫子里。

‘And that’s a’ I get,’ he moaned. ‘A heid hetter than hell fire, and twae een lookin’ different ways for the Sabbath.’
“我明白了，”他呻吟道。 “比地狱之火更可怕的事，我们为安息日寻找不同的方式。”

‘What did it?’ I asked.
“这是怎么回事？”我问道。

‘A drink they ca’ brandy. Bein’ a teetotaller I keepit off the whisky, but I was nip-nippin’ a’ day at this brandy, and I doubt I’ll no be weel for a fortnicht.’ His voice died away into a splutter, and sleep once more laid its heavy hand on him.
“他们不能喝”白兰地。作为一个滴酒不沾的人，我不喝威士忌，但我一天都在喝这种白兰地，我怀疑我不会在半夜里感到难过。”他的声音渐渐消失，变成了结结巴巴的声音，然后又睡着了。对他施加了沉重的打击。

My plan had been to get out at some station down the line, but the train suddenly gave me a better chance, for it came to a standstill at the end of a culvert which spanned a brawling porter-coloured river. I looked out and saw that every carriage window was closed and no human figure appeared in the landscape. So I opened the door, and dropped quickly into the tangle of hazels which edged the line.
我的计划是在沿线的某个车站下车，但火车突然给了我一个更好的机会，因为它在横跨一条湍急的波特色河流的涵洞尽头停了下来。我向外望去，发现所有车厢的窗户都关着，没有人影出现。于是我打开门，迅速钻进队伍边缘的榛树丛中。

it would have been all right but for that infernal dog. Under the impression that I was decamping with its master’s belongings, it started to bark, and all but got me by the trousers. This woke up the herd, who stood bawling at the carriage door in the belief that I had committed suicide. I crawled through the thicket, reached the edge of the stream, and in cover of the bushes put a hundred yards or so behind me. Then from my shelter I peered back, and saw the guard and several passengers gathered round the open carriage door and staring in my direction. I could not have made a more public departure if I had left with a bugler and a brass band.
要不是那只该死的狗，一切都还好。它以为我带着主人的东西逃跑了，它开始吠叫，几乎抓住了我的裤子。这惊醒了一群人，他们站在马车门口嚎啕大哭，相信我是自杀的。我爬过灌木丛，到达溪边，在灌木丛的掩护下，在我身后大约一百码处。然后，我从避难所回头望去，看到警卫和几名乘客聚集在打开的车厢门周围，盯着我的方向。如果我带着号手和铜管乐队离开，我就不可能更公开地离开了。

Happily the drunken herd provided a diversion. He and his dog, which was attached by a rope to his waist, suddenly cascaded out of the carriage, landed on their heads on the track, and rolled some way down the bank towards the water. In the rescue which followed the dog bit somebody, for I could hear the sound of hard swearing. Presently they had forgotten me, and when after a quarter of a mile’s crawl I ventured to look back, the train had started again and was vanishing in the cutting.
幸运的是，喝醉的牛群提供了一种消遣。他和腰间系着绳子的狗突然从马车上滚了下来，头朝下落在铁轨上，然后沿着岸边滚向水边。在随后的救援中，那只狗咬了一个人，因为我听到了咒骂的声音。不久他们就忘记了我，当我爬行了四分之一英里后，我鼓起勇气回头一看时，火车又开动了，消失在路堑中。

I was in a wide semicircle of moorland, with the brown river as radius, and the high hills forming the northern circumference. There was not a sign or sound of a human being, only the plashing water and the interminable crying of curlews. Yet, oddly enough, for the first time I felt the terror of the hunted on me. It was not the police that I thought of, but the other folk, who knew that I knew Scudder’s secret and dared not let me live. I was certain that they would pursue me with a keenness and vigilance unknown to the British law, and that once their grip closed on me I should find no mercy.
我身处一片宽阔的半圆形沼泽地，以棕色河流为半径，高山构成北边。没有人影，也没有人声，只有哗哗的水声和麻鹬没完没了的叫声。然而，奇怪的是，我第一次感受到了被追捕的恐惧。我想到的不是警察，而是其他人，他们知道我知道了斯卡德的秘密，不敢放过我。我确信他们会以英国法律所不知道的敏锐和警惕来追捕我，一旦他们抓住我，我将不会受到怜悯。

I looked back, but there was nothing in the landscape. The sun glinted on the metals of the line and the wet stones in the stream, and you could not have found a more peaceful sight in the world. Nevertheless I started to run. Crouching low in the runnels of the bog, I ran till the sweat blinded my eyes. The mood did not leave me till I had reached the rim of mountain and flung myself panting on a ridge high above the young waters of the brown river.
我回头一看，风景里什么也没有。阳光照射在绳索的金属和溪流中潮湿的石头上，闪闪发光，你在世界上找不到比这更平静的景象了。尽管如此，我还是开始奔跑。我蹲在沼泽的沟渠里，一直跑到汗水模糊了我的眼睛。直到我到达山边，气喘吁吁地跳到高高的山脊上，高高的棕色河水清澈见底时，我的心情才消失。

From my vantage-ground I could scan the whole moor right away to the railway line and to the south of it where green fields took the place of heather. I have eyes like a hawk, but I could see nothing moving in the whole countryside. Then I looked east beyond the ridge and saw a new kind of landscape shallow green valleys with plentiful fir plantations and the faint lines of dust which spoke of highroads. Last of all I looked into the blue May sky, and there I saw that which set my pulses racing ...
从我的有利位置，我可以立即扫描整个荒原，直到铁路线以及铁路以南，那里的绿色田野取代了石南花。我的眼睛像鹰一样，但我看不到整个乡村有任何动静。然后我向山脊之外的东边望去，看到了一种新的景观：浅绿色的山谷，有大量的冷杉种植园和淡淡的灰尘线条，说明了公路的存在。最后，我望向五月蔚蓝的天空，在那里我看到了让我心跳加速的景象……

Low down in the south a monoplane was climbing into the heavens. I was as certain as if I had been told that that aeroplane was looking for me, and that it did not belong to the police. For an hour or two I watched it from a pit of heather. It flew low along the hill-tops, and then in narrow circles over the valley up which I had come’ Then it seemed to change its mind, rose to a great height, and flew away back to the south.
南方低空，一架单翼飞机正在爬上天空。我确信那架飞机正在寻找我，而且它不属于警察。我在石南丛中观看了它一两个小时。它沿着山顶低飞，然后在我来的山谷上空盘旋，然后它似乎改变了主意，升到了很高的高度，飞回了南方。

I did not like this espionage from the air, and I began to think less well of the countryside I had chosen for a refuge. These heather hills were no sort of cover if my enemies were in the sky, and I must find a different kind of sanctuary. I looked with more satisfaction to the green country beyond the ridge, for there I should find woods and stone houses. About six in the evening I came out of the moorland to a white ribbon of road which wound up the narrow vale of a lowland stream. As I followed it, fields gave place to bent, the glen became a plateau, and presently I had reached a kind of pass where a solitary house smoked in the twilight. The road swung over a bridge, and leaning on the parapet was a young man.
我不喜欢这种空中间谍活动，我开始对我选择避难的乡村产生不好的看法。如果我的敌人在天空中，这些石南花山就不再是掩护，我必须找到一个不同的避难所。我更加满意地看着山脊那边的绿色乡村，​​因为在那里我应该找到树林和石头房子。傍晚六点左右，我走出荒原，来到一条白色的带状道路，这条路蜿蜒穿过一条低地溪流的狭窄山谷。当我顺着它走的时候，田野变得弯曲，峡谷变成了高原，不久我就到达了一个山口，那里有一座孤零零的房子在暮色中冒着烟。道路蜿蜒过一座桥，栏杆上靠着一个年轻人。

He was smoking a long clay pipe and studying the water with spectacled eyes. In his left hand was a small book with a finger marking the place. Slowly he repeated -
他抽着一根长长的陶制烟斗，用眼镜眼睛观察着水。他的左手拿着一本小书，手指在这个地方做了标记。他慢慢地重复道——

As when a Gryphon through the wilderness
就像一只狮鹫穿越荒野时

With winged step, o’er hill and moory dale
带着翼步，越过山丘和穆里谷

Pursues the Arimaspian.
追寻阿里马斯派。

He jumped round as my step rung on the keystone, and I saw a pleasant sunburnt boyish face.
当我的脚步踩在梯形石上时，他跳了起来，我看到了一张令人愉快的晒黑的孩子气的脸。

‘Good evening to you,’ he said gravely. ‘It’s a fine night for the road.’
“晚上好，”他严肃地说。 “对于路上来说，这是一个美好的夜晚。”

The smell of peat smoke and of some savoury roast floated to me from the house.
屋子里飘来泥煤烟和烤肉的香味。

‘Is that place an inn?’ I asked.
“那个地方是旅馆吗？”我问道。

‘At your service,’ he said politely. ‘I am the landlord, Sir, and I hope you will stay the night, for to tell you the truth I have had no company for a week.’
“为您服务，”他礼貌地说。 “我是房东，先生，我希望您能留下来过夜，因为说实话，我已经一个星期没有人陪伴了。”

I pulled myself up on the parapet of the bridge and filled my pipe. I began to detect an ally.
我把自己拉到桥的栏杆上，灌满了烟斗。我开始寻找盟友。

‘You’re young to be an innkeeper,’ I said.
“你当客栈老板还年轻，”我说。

‘My father died a year ago and left me the business. I live there with my grandmother. It’s a slow job for a young man, and it wasn’t my choice of profession.’
“我父亲一年前去世了，把生意留给了我。我和祖母住在那里。对于一个年轻人来说，这是一份缓慢的工作，而且这不是我选择的职业。

‘Which was?’
“哪个是？”

He actually blushed. ‘I want to write books,’ he said.
他确实脸红了。 “我想写书，”他说。

‘And what better chance could you ask?’ I cried. ‘Man, I’ve often thought that an innkeeper would make the best story-teller in the world.’
“你还能问还有什么更好的机会吗？”我喊道。 “伙计，我经常认为旅店老板会成为世界上最好的讲故事的人。”

‘Not now,’ he said eagerly. ‘Maybe in the old days when you had pilgrims and ballad-makers and highwaymen and mail-coaches on the road. But not now. Nothing comes here but motor-cars full of fat women, who stop for lunch, and a fisherman or two in the spring, and the shooting tenants in August. There is not much material to be got out of that. I want to see life, to travel the world, and write things like Kipling and Conrad. But the most I’ve done yet is to get some verses printed in CHAMBERS’S JOURNAL.’ I looked at the inn standing golden in the sunset against the brown hills.
“现在不行，”他急切地说。 “也许在过去，路上有朝圣者、民谣制作者、强盗和邮车。但是不是现在。这里什么也没有，只有满载胖女人的汽车，她们停下来吃午饭，还有春天的一两个渔夫，以及八月的射击房客。从中并没有太多的材料可以得到。我想看看生活，环游世界，写出像吉卜林和康拉德那样的作品。但我迄今为止做的最多的事情就是在《钱伯斯日记》上印了一些诗句。”我看着那座旅馆，在夕阳的映衬下，在棕色的山丘上显得金光闪闪。

‘I’ve knocked a bit about the world, and I wouldn’t despise such a hermitage. D’you think that adventure is found only in the tropics or among gentry in red shirts? Maybe you’re rubbing shoulders with it at this moment.’
“我对这个世界有所了解，我不会鄙视这样的隐修院。你认为冒险只能在热带地区或穿红衫的绅士中进行吗？也许此刻你正在与它擦肩而过。

‘That’s what Kipling says,’ he said, his eyes brightening, and he quoted some verse about ‘Romance bringing up the 9.15’.
“吉卜林就是这么说的，”他眼睛发亮地说，并引用了一些关于“浪漫带来 9.15”的诗句。

‘Here’s a true tale for you then,’ I cried, ‘and a month from now you can make a novel out of it.’
“那么，这是给你的一个真实的故事，”我喊道，“一个月后你就可以用它写一本小说了。”

Sitting on the bridge in the soft May gloaming I pitched him a lovely yarn. It was true in essentials, too, though I altered the minor details. I made out that I was a mining magnate from Kimberley, who had had a lot of trouble with I.D.B. and had shown up a gang. They had pursued me across the ocean, and had killed my best friend, and were now on my tracks.
在五月柔和的暮色中，我坐在桥上，给他讲了一段可爱的故事。尽管我改变了一些小细节，但本质上也是如此。我发现我是一位来自金伯利的矿业大亨，曾因 I.D.B. 遇到过很多麻烦。并且出现了一个团伙。他们漂洋过海追捕我，杀死了我最好的朋友，现在又追上了我的踪迹。

I told the story well, though I say it who shouldn’t. I pictured a flight across the Kalahari to German Africa, the crackling, parching days, the wonderful blue-velvet nights. I described an attack on my life on the voyage home, and I made a really horrid affair of the Portland Place murder. ‘You’re looking for adventure,’ I cried; ‘well, you’ve found it here. The devils are after me, and the police are after them. It’s a race that I mean to win.’
我把这个故事讲得很好，尽管我说的是不该说的人。我想象着飞越喀拉哈里山脉飞往德属非洲的情景，那是噼啪作响、炎热干燥的日子，还有美妙的蓝色天鹅绒之夜。我描述了在回家途中我的生活遭受的一次袭击，并且我制造了一起非常可怕的波特兰广场谋杀案。 “你在寻找冒险，”我喊道。 ‘好吧，你已经在这里找到了。魔鬼在追捕我，警察也在追捕他们。这是一场我想赢得的比赛。

‘By God!’ he whispered, drawing his breath in sharply, ‘it is all pure Rider Haggard and Conan Doyle.’
“上帝啊！”他低声说道，猛吸了一口气，“这都是纯粹的莱德·哈格德和柯南·道尔的作品。”

‘You believe me,’ I said gratefully.
我感激地说：“你相信我。”

‘Of course I do,’ and he held out his hand. ‘I believe everything out of the common. The only thing to distrust is the normal.’
“我当然愿意，”他伸出了手。 “我相信一切都是非同寻常的。唯一不信任的是常态。

He was very young, but he was the man for my money.
他很年轻，但他是我的钱的人。

‘I think they’re off my track for the moment, but I must lie close for a couple of days. Can you take me in?’
“我认为他们暂时偏离了我的轨道，但我必须密切关注几天。你能带我进去吗？

He caught my elbow in his eagerness and drew me towards the house. ‘You can lie as snug here as if you were in a moss-hole. I’ll see that nobody blabs, either. And you’ll give me some more material about your adventures?’
他热切地抓住我的胳膊肘，把我拉向房子。 “你可以舒服地躺在这里，就像躺在苔藓洞里一样。”我也会看到没有人乱说话。你能给我更多关于你的冒险经历的材料吗？

As I entered the inn porch I heard from far off the beat of an engine. There silhouetted against the dusky West was my friend, the monoplane.
当我走进旅馆门廊时，我听到远处传来发动机的轰鸣声。在昏暗的西方映衬下，我的朋友，单翼飞机，映衬在其中。

He gave me a room at the back of the house, with a fine outlook over the plateau, and he made me free of his own study, which was stacked with cheap editions of his favourite authors. I never saw the grandmother, so I guessed she was bedridden. An old woman called Margit brought me my meals, and the innkeeper was around me at all hours. I wanted some time to myself, so I invented a job for him. He had a motor-bicycle, and I sent him off next morning for the daily paper, which usually arrived with the post in the late afternoon. I told him to keep his eyes skinned, and make note of any strange figures he saw, keeping a special sharp look-out for motors and aeroplanes. Then I sat down in real earnest to Scudder’s note-book.
他给了我一个位于房子后面的房间，可以看到高原的美景，他还让我离开了他自己的书房，书房里堆满了他最喜欢的作家的廉价版本。我从未见过祖母，所以我猜她卧床不起。一位名叫玛吉特的老妇人给我送饭菜，旅店老板随时都在我身边。我想要一些属于自己的时间，所以我为他发明了一份工作。他有一辆摩托车，第二天早上我送他去取日报，报纸通常在下午晚些时候随邮件一起到达。我告诉他要睁大眼睛，记下他看到的任何奇怪的人物，特别警惕发动机和飞机。然后我认真地坐在斯卡德的笔记本前。

He came back at midday with the SCOTSMAN. There was nothing in it, except some further evidence of Paddock and the milkman, and a repetition of yesterday’s statement that the murderer had gone North. But there was a long article, reprinted from THE TIMES, about Karolides and the state of affairs in the Balkans, though there was no mention of any visit to England. I got rid of the innkeeper for the afternoon, for I was getting very warm in my search for the cypher.
中午他带着苏格兰人回来了。除了一些有关帕多克和送奶工的进一步证据，以及昨天关于凶手已经去了北方的陈述的重复之外，里面什么也没有。但是《泰晤士报》转载了一篇关于卡罗利德斯和巴尔干地区事态的长文，尽管没有提到任何访问英国的事情。下午我摆脱了旅店老板，因为我在寻找密码的过程中变得非常热心。

As I told you, it was a numerical cypher, and by an elaborate system of experiments I had pretty well discovered what were the nulls and stops. The trouble was the key word, and when I thought of the odd million words he might have used I felt pretty hopeless. But about three o’clock I had a sudden inspiration.
正如我告诉你的，这是一个数字密码，通过精心设计的实验系统，我已经很好地发现了什么是零点和停止点。麻烦是关键词，当我想到他可能使用的数百万个单词时，我感到非常绝望。但大约三点钟的时候，我突然有了灵感。

The name Julia Czechenyi flashed across my memory. Scudder had said it was the key to the Karolides business, and it occurred to me to try it on his cypher.
朱莉娅·捷克尼这个名字在我的记忆中闪过。斯卡德说过这是卡罗利德斯生意的关键，我想到要在他的密码上试试。

It worked. The five letters of ‘Julia’ gave me the position of the vowels. A was J, the tenth letter of the alphabet, and so represented by X in the cypher. E was XXI, and so on. ‘Czechenyi’ gave me the numerals for the principal consonants. I scribbled that scheme on a bit of paper and sat down to read Scudder’s pages.
有效。 “Julia”的五个字母给了我元音的位置。 A 是 J，字母表中的第十个字母，因此在密码中用 X 表示。 E 是 XXI，等等。 “Czechenyi”给了我主要辅音的数字。我把这个计划潦草地写在一张纸上，然后坐下来读斯卡德的书。

In half an hour I was reading with a whitish face and fingers that drummed on the table.
半个小时后，我脸色发白，手指敲着桌子看书。

I glanced out of the window and saw a big touring-car coming up the glen towards the inn. It drew up at the door, and there was the sound of people alighting. There seemed to be two of them, men in aquascutums and tweed caps.
我向窗外望去，看到一辆大旅行车沿着峡谷驶向客栈。车子停在门口，听见有人下车的声音。似乎有两个人，都是戴着水蛇皮帽、戴着粗花呢帽子的男人。

Ten minutes later the innkeeper slipped into the room, his eyes bright with excitement.
十分钟后，店主溜进房间，眼神里闪烁着兴奋的光芒。

‘There’s two chaps below looking for you,’ he whispered. ‘They’re in the dining-room having whiskies-and-sodas. They asked about you and said they had hoped to meet you here. Oh! and they described you jolly well, down to your boots and shirt. I told them you had been here last night and had gone off on a motor bicycle this morning, and one of the chaps swore like a navvy.’
“下面有两个家伙在找你，”他低声说道。 “他们在餐厅里喝着威士忌和苏打水。他们询问了你的情况，并表示希望在这里见到你。哦！他们对你的描述非常好，包括你的靴子和衬衫。我告诉他们你昨晚来过这里，今天早上骑着摩托车走了，其中一个小伙子像海军一样咒骂着。

I made him tell me what they looked like. One was a dark-eyed thin fellow with bushy eyebrows, the other was always smiling and lisped in his talk. Neither was any kind of foreigner; on this my young friend was positive.
我让他告诉我他们长什么样。一个是黑眼睛、眉毛浓密的瘦小伙子，另一个总是微笑着，说话口齿不清。也不是任何外国人。我的年轻朋友对此持积极态度。

I took a bit of paper and wrote these words in German as if they were part of a letter -
我拿了一张纸，用德语写下了这些话，就像它们是一封信的一部分一样——

... ‘Black Stone. Scudder had got on to this, but he could not act for a fortnight. I doubt if I can do any good now, especially as Karolides is uncertain about his plans. But if Mr T. advises I will do the best I ...’
... '黑色的石头。斯卡德已经明白了这一点，但他有两周无法采取行动。我怀疑我现在是否能做任何好事，尤其是卡罗利德斯不确定他的计划。但如果 T 先生建议，我会尽力而为……”

I manufactured it rather neatly, so that it looked like a loose page of a private letter.
我把它做得相当工整，看起来就像是一封松散的私人信件。

‘Take this down and say it was found in my bedroom, and ask them to return it to me if they overtake me.’ Three minutes later I heard the car begin to move, and peeping from behind the curtain caught sight of the two figures. One was slim, the other was sleek; that was the most I could make of my reconnaissance.
“把这个拿下来，说是在我卧室里发现的，如果他们追上我，请他们把它还给我。”三分钟后，我听到汽车开始移动，从窗帘后面偷看，看到了两个人影。一个很苗条，另一个很时尚；这是我所能做的最多的侦察。

The innkeeper appeared in great excitement. ‘Your paper woke them up,’ he said gleefully. ‘The dark fellow went as white as death and cursed like blazes, and the fat one whistled and looked ugly. They paid for their drinks with half-a-sovereign and wouldn’t wait for change.’
店主显得非常兴奋。 “你的论文吵醒了他们，”他高兴地说。 ‘黑皮肤的家伙脸色苍白如死，咒骂如火焰，胖子吹着口哨，样子很丑。他们用半个主权货币支付饮料费用，并且不会等待零钱。

‘Now I’ll tell you what I want you to do,’ I said. ‘Get on your bicycle and go off to Newton-Stewart to the Chief Constable. Describe the two men, and say you suspect them of having had something to do with the London murder. You can invent reasons. The two will come back, never fear. Not tonight, for they’ll follow me forty miles along the road, but first thing tomorrow morning. Tell the police to be here bright and early.’
“现在我要告诉你我想让你做什么，”我说。 “骑上自行车，前往牛顿-斯图尔特去找警察局长。描述这两个人，并说你怀疑他们与伦敦谋杀案有关。你可以编造理由。两个人都会回来的，不用害怕。今晚不行，因为他们会沿着路跟着我四十英里，但明天早上第一件事就是。告诉警察早点到这里。”

He set off like a docile child, while I worked at Scudder’s notes. When he came back we dined together, and in common decency I had to let him pump me. I gave him a lot of stuff about lion hunts and the Matabele War, thinking all the while what tame businesses these were compared to this I was now engaged in! When he went to bed I sat up and finished Scudder. I smoked in a chair till daylight, for I could not sleep.
他像个温顺的孩子一样出发了，而我则在做斯卡德的笔记。当他回来时，我们一起吃饭，出于礼貌，我不得不让他给我打气。我给了他很多关于猎狮和马塔贝莱战争的东西，同时我一直在想，与我现在从事的事情相比，这些是多么乏味的事情啊！当他上床睡觉时，我坐起来，完成了斯卡德的任务。我在椅子上抽烟直到天亮，因为我无法入睡。

About eight next morning I witnessed the arrival of two constables and a sergeant. They put their car in a coach-house under the innkeeper’s instructions, and entered the house. Twenty minutes later I saw from my window a second car come across the plateau from the opposite direction. It did not come up to the inn, but stopped two hundred yards off in the shelter of a patch of wood. I noticed that its occupants carefully reversed it before leaving it. A minute or two later I heard their steps on the gravel outside the window.
第二天早上八点左右，我目睹了两名警察和一名中士的到来。他们按照旅店老板的吩咐，把车停在马车房里，然后进了屋子。二十分钟后，我从窗外看到第二辆车从相反的方向穿过高原。它没有开到旅店，而是在两百码外的一片树林里停了下来。我注意到车上的人在离开之前小心翼翼地把它倒转了。一两分钟后，我听到了窗外碎石路上他们的脚步声。

My plan had been to lie hid in my bedroom, and see what happened. I had a notion that, if I could bring the police and my other more dangerous pursuers together, something might work out of it to my advantage. But now I had a better idea. I scribbled a line of thanks to my host, opened the window, and dropped quietly into a gooseberry bush. Unobserved I crossed the dyke, crawled down the side of a tributary burn, and won the highroad on the far side of the patch of trees. There stood the car, very spick and span in the morning sunlight, but with the dust on her which told of a long journey. I started her, jumped into the chauffeur’s seat, and stole gently out on to the plateau.
我的计划是躲在卧室里，看看会发生什么。我有一个想法，如果我能让警察和其他更危险的追捕者聚集在一起，也许会对我有利。但现在我有了更好的主意。我潦草写下一行感谢主人的话，打开窗户，静静地钻进醋栗丛里。我在无人注意的情况下越过堤坝，爬下支流烧毁的一侧，并赢得了那片树林另一侧的公路。汽车停在那里，在早晨的阳光下显得十分整洁，但车上的灰尘却说明了长途旅行的痕迹。我启动了她，跳进司机的座位上，轻轻地溜到了高原上。

Almost at once the road dipped so that I lost sight of the inn, but the wind seemed to bring me the sound of angry voices.
道路几乎立刻就下陷了，我看不到旅馆了，但风似乎给我带来了愤怒的声音。

CHAPTER FOUR
第四回

The Adventure of the Radical Candidate
激进候选人的冒险

You may picture me driving that 40 h.p. car for all she was worth over the crisp moor roads on that shining May morning; glancing back at first over my shoulder, and looking anxiously to the next turning; then driving with a vague eye, just wide enough awake to keep on the highway. For I was thinking desperately of what I had found in Scudder’s pocket-book.
你可能会想象我驾驶那辆 40 马力的车。在那个阳光明媚的五月早晨，她的车在清新的沼泽道路上行驶；首先回头看了一眼，焦急地看着下一个转弯。然后开车时目光模糊，只保持清醒，可以继续在高速公路上行驶。因为我正在拼命地思考我在斯卡德的钱包里找到的东西。

The little man had told me a pack of lies. All his yarns about the Balkans and the Jew-Anarchists and the Foreign Office Conference were eyewash, and so was Karolides. And yet not quite, as you shall hear. I had staked everything on my belief in his story, and had been let down; here was his book telling me a different tale, and instead of being once-bitten-twice-shy, I believed it absolutely.
这个小个子男人对我说了一大堆谎言。他所有关于巴尔干、犹太无政府主义者和外交部会议的故事都是洗眼的，卡罗里德斯也是如此。但正如您将听到的，情况又不完全是这样。我把一切都押在了他的故事上，但结果却让我失望了。他的书给我讲述了一个不同的故事，我并没有一朝被蛇咬两次，而是绝对相信它。

Why, I don’t know. It rang desperately true, and the first yarn, if you understand me, had been in a queer way true also in spirit. The fifteenth day of June was going to be a day of destiny, a bigger destiny than the killing of a Dago. It was so big that I didn’t blame Scudder for keeping me out of the game and wanting to play a lone hand. That, I was pretty clear, was his intention. He had told me something which sounded big enough, but the real thing was so immortally big that he, the man who had found it out, wanted it all for himself. I didn’t blame him. It was risks after all that he was chiefly greedy about.
为什么，我不知道。这听上去极其真实，而第一个故事，如果你理解我的话，在精神上也以一种奇怪的方式真实。六月十五日将是命运的一天，比杀死达戈更大的命运。它是如此之大，以至于我没有责怪斯卡德让我远离游戏并想独自一人玩。我很清楚，这就是他的意图。他告诉了我一些听起来足够重大的事情，但真正的事情是如此巨大，以至于他，这个发现它的人，想要把它全部据为己有。我没有责怪他。毕竟他最贪婪的还是风险。

The whole story was in the notes with gaps, you understand, which he would have filled up from his memory. He stuck down his authorities, too, and had an odd trick of giving them all a numerical value and then striking a balance, which stood for the reliability of each stage in the yarn. The four names he had printed were authorities, and there was a man, Ducrosne, who got five out of a possible five; and another fellow, Ammersfoort, who got three. The bare bones of the tale were all that was in the book these, and one queer phrase which occurred half a dozen times inside brackets. ‘(Thirty-nine steps)’ was the phrase; and at its last time of use it ran ‘(Thirty-nine steps, I counted them high tide 10.17 p.m.)’. I could make nothing of that.
整个故事都记录在有空白的笔记中，你知道，他会用记忆来填补这些空白。他也坚持自己的权威，并有一个奇怪的技巧，给它们全部一个数值，然后达到平衡，这代表了纱线中每个阶段的可靠性。他打印的四个名字都是权威人士的名字，其中有一个人叫杜克罗斯尼，他在可能的五个名字中得到了五个。还有一个叫阿默斯福特的人，他得到了三个。书中的内容就是这个故事的基本内容，还有一个奇怪的短语在括号内出现了六次。 “（三十九级台阶）”是这句话；在最后一次使用时，它运行“（三十九步，我在晚上 10 点 17 分高潮时数过它们）”。我对此一无所知。

The first thing I learned was that it was no question of preventing a war. That was coming, as sure as Christmas: had been arranged, said Scudder, ever since February 1912. Karolides was going to be the occasion. He was booked all right, and was to hand in his checks on June 14th, two weeks and four days from that May morning. I gathered from Scudder’s notes that nothing on earth could prevent that. His talk of Epirote guards that would skin their own grandmothers was all billy-o.
我学到的第一件事是，这不是阻止战争的问题。斯卡德说，那一天就快到了，就像圣诞节一样：从 1912 年 2 月起就已经安排好了。卡罗利德斯将成为这个场合。他的预订没问题，并于 6 月 14 日交出支票，距离 5 月的早晨还有两周零四天。我从斯卡德的笔记中得知，世界上没有什么可以阻止这一点。他说伊庇鲁特卫兵会剥自己祖母的皮，这完全是胡言乱语。

The second thing was that this war was going to come as a mighty surprise to Britain. Karolides’ death would set the Balkans by the ears, and then Vienna would chip in with an ultimatum. Russia wouldn’t like that, and there would be high words. But Berlin would play the peacemaker, and pour oil on the waters, till suddenly she would find a good cause for a quarrel, pick it up, and in five hours let fly at us. That was the idea, and a pretty good one too. Honey and fair speeches, and then a stroke in the dark. While we were talking about the goodwill and good intentions of Germany our coast would be silently ringed with mines, and submarines would be waiting for every battleship.
第二件事是，这场战争将给英国带来巨大的惊喜。卡罗利季斯的死会让巴尔干半岛感到震惊，然后维也纳也会发出最后通牒。俄罗斯不会喜欢这样，而且还会有高调的言论。但柏林会扮演和平缔造者的角色，在水面上泼油，直到她突然找到一个争吵的好理由，拿起它，并在五个小时内向我们飞来。这就是我们的想法，而且也是一个非常好的想法。甜蜜而公平的演讲，然后是黑暗中的一击。当我们谈论德国的善意和良好意图时，我们的海岸将无声无息地布满水雷，潜艇将等待着每艘战列舰。

But all this depended upon the third thing, which was due to happen on June 15th. I would never have grasped this if I hadn’t once happened to meet a French staff officer, coming back from West Africa, who had told me a lot of things. One was that, in spite of all the nonsense talked in Parliament, there was a real working alliance between France and Britain, and that the two General Staffs met every now and then, and made plans for joint action in case of war. Well, in June a very great swell was coming over from Paris, and he was going to get nothing less than a statement of the disposition of the British Home Fleet on mobilization. At least I gathered it was something like that; anyhow, it was something uncommonly important.
但这一切都取决于第三件事，这件事定于6月15日发生。如果我没有碰巧遇到一位从西非回来的法国参谋，我永远不会明白这一点，他告诉了我很多事情。一是，尽管议会里说了很多废话，但法国和英国之间确实存在着有效的联盟，两国总参谋部时不时地会面，制定发生战争时联合行动的计划。好吧，六月，一股巨大的浪潮从巴黎袭来，他将得到一份关于英国本土舰队动员部署的声明。至少我猜想是这样的；无论如何，这是一件异常重要的事情。

But on the 15th day of June there were to be others in London others, at whom I could only guess. Scudder was content to call them collectively the ‘Black Stone’. They represented not our Allies, but our deadly foes; and the information, destined for France, was to be diverted to their pockets. And it was to be used, remember used a week or two later, with great guns and swift torpedoes, suddenly in the darkness of a summer night.
但 6 月 15 日，伦敦还会有其他人，我只能猜测。斯卡德很乐意将它们统称为“黑石”。他们代表的不是我们的盟友，而是我们的死敌；这些原本发往法国的信息将被转移到他们的口袋里。它将会被使用，记得是一两周后使用的，配备大炮和快速鱼雷，突然在一个夏夜的黑暗中。

This was the story I had been deciphering in a back room of a country inn, overlooking a cabbage garden. This was the story that hummed in my brain as I swung in the big touring-car from glen to glen.
这是我在一家乡村旅馆的密室里解读的故事，俯瞰着卷心菜园。当我乘坐大型旅行车从一个峡谷荡到另一个峡谷时，这个故事在我的脑海中嗡嗡作响。

My first impulse had been to write a letter to the Prime Minister, but a little reflection convinced me that that would be useless. Who would believe my tale? I must show a sign, some token in proof, and Heaven knew what that could be. Above all, I must keep going myself, ready to act when things got riper, and that was going to be no light job with the police of the British Isles in full cry after me and the watchers of the Black Stone running silently and swiftly on my trail.
我的第一冲动是给首相写一封信，但经过一番思考，我确信那是没有用的。谁会相信我的故事？我必须展示一个标志，一些证据，天知道那会是什么。最重要的是，我自己必须继续前进，准备好在事情成熟时采取行动，而这将不是一件轻松的工作，不列颠群岛的警察在我身后大声喊叫，而黑石的守望者则默默地、迅速地奔跑着。我的踪迹。

I had no very clear purpose in my journey, but I steered east by the sun, for I remembered from the map that if I went north I would come into a region of coalpits and industrial towns. Presently I was down from the moorlands and traversing the broad haugh of a river. For miles I ran alongside a park wall, and in a break of the trees I saw a great castle. I swung through little old thatched villages, and over peaceful lowland streams, and past gardens blazing with hawthorn and yellow laburnum. The land was so deep in peace that I could scarcely believe that somewhere behind me were those who sought my life; ay, and that in a month’s time, unless I had the almightiest of luck, these round country faces would be pinched and staring, and men would be lying dead in English fields.
我的旅程没有明确的目的，但我乘着太阳向东行驶，因为我从地图上记得，如果我向北走，我会进入一片煤矿和工业城镇的地区。不久我就从沼泽地下来，穿过一条宽阔的河流。我沿着公园的围墙跑了几英里，在树林的间隙我看到了一座伟大的城堡。我穿过古老的茅草村庄，越过平静的低地溪流，经过长满山楂树和黄色金链花的花园。这片土地是如此的平静，我几乎不敢相信在我身后的某个地方有那些寻索我生命的人。唉，一个月后，除非我有最大的运气，这些圆圆的乡村面孔将被捏住并凝视着，而人们将死在英国的田野里。

About mid-day I entered a long straggling village, and had a mind to stop and eat. Half-way down was the Post Office, and on the steps of it stood the postmistress and a policeman hard at work conning a telegram. When they saw me they wakened up, and the policeman advanced with raised hand, and cried on me to stop.
中午时分，我进入了一个又长又散的村庄，想停下来吃点东西。半路是邮局，邮局的台阶上站着邮政局长和一名警察，正在忙着发电报。当他们看到我时，他们醒了，警察举起手上前，大声叫我停下来。

I nearly was fool enough to obey. Then it flashed upon me that the wire had to do with me; that my friends at the inn had come to an understanding, and were united in desiring to see more of me, and that it had been easy enough for them to wire the description of me and the car to thirty villages through which I might pass. I released the brakes just in time. As it was, the policeman made a claw at the hood, and only dropped off when he got my left in his eye.
我差点就傻到服从了。然后我突然意识到，那根电线与我有关。我在旅馆的朋友们已经达成了谅解，并且一致希望能更多地见到我，而且他们很容易将我和汽车的描述发送到我可能经过的三十个村庄。我及时松开了刹车。事实上，警察用爪子抓了引擎盖，直到我的左眼碰到了他的眼睛，才松开手。

I saw that main roads were no place for me, and turned into the byways. It wasn’t an easy job without a map, for there was the risk of getting on to a farm road and ending in a duck-pond or a stableyard, and I couldn’t afford that kind of delay. I began to see what an ass I had been to steal the car. The big green brute would be the safest kind of clue to me over the breadth of Scotland. If I left it and took to my feet, it would be discovered in an hour or two and I would get no start in the race.
我发现大路已经容不下我了，于是就拐进了小路。没有地图，这不是一件容易的事，因为有可能走上一条农场道路，最后到达鸭子池塘或马厩院，而我不能承受这种延误。我开始意识到我偷车是多么愚蠢的行为。对我来说，在整个苏格兰范围内，绿色的大野兽将是最安全的线索。如果我离开它并站起来，一两个小时后就会被发现，我将无法参加比赛。

The immediate thing to do was to get to the loneliest roads. These I soon found when I struck up a tributary of the big river, and got into a glen with steep hills all about me, and a corkscrew road at the end which climbed over a pass. Here I met nobody, but it was taking me too far north, so I slewed east along a bad track and finally struck a big double-line railway. Away below me I saw another broadish valley, and it occurred to me that if I crossed it I might find some remote inn to pass the night. The evening was now drawing in, and I was furiously hungry, for I had eaten nothing since breakfast except a couple of buns I had bought from a baker’s cart. just then I heard a noise in the sky, and lo and behold there was that infernal aeroplane, flying low, about a dozen miles to the south and rapidly coming towards me.
当务之急就是前往最偏僻的道路。当我沿着大河的一条支流前进，进入一片峡谷时，我很快就发现了这些，周围都是陡峭的山丘，尽头有一条螺旋形的道路，爬过山口。在这里我没有遇到任何人，但它把我带得太北了，所以我沿着一条糟糕的轨道向东行驶，最后碰到了一条大型双线铁路。在我的下方，我看到了另一个宽阔的山谷，我突然想到，如果我穿过它，我可能会找到一些偏僻的客栈过夜。夜幕降临了，我饿得要命，因为早餐后我除了从面包车上买的几个小面包外什么也没吃。就在这时，我听到天空中传来一声响动，你瞧，那架可恶的飞机，低空飞行，在南边大约十几英里处，迅速向我飞来。

I had the sense to remember that on a bare moor I was at the aeroplane’s mercy, and that my only chance was to get to the leafy cover of the valley. Down the hill I went like blue lightning, screwing my head round, whenever I dared, to watch that damned flying machine. Soon I was on a road between hedges, and dipping to the deep-cut glen of a stream. Then came a bit of thick wood where I slackened speed.
我清楚地记得，在一片光秃秃的荒原上，我只能任由飞机摆布，而我唯一的机会就是到达山谷里绿树成荫的地方。我像蓝色闪电一样下了山，只要我敢，我就扭着头去看那台该死的飞行器。很快我就走到了树篱之间的一条路上，并进入了一条深深的溪谷。然后来到一片茂密的树林里，我放慢了速度。

Suddenly on my left I heard the hoot of another car, and realized to my horror that I was almost up on a couple of gate-posts through which a private road debouched on the highway. My horn gave an agonized roar, but it was too late. I clapped on my brakes, but my impetus was too great, and there before me a car was sliding athwart my course. In a second there would have been the deuce of a wreck. I did the only thing possible, and ran slap into the hedge on the right, trusting to find something soft beyond.
突然，在我的左边，我听到另一辆车的鸣叫声，我惊恐地意识到，我几乎已经到了几根门柱上，一条私人道路从门柱上延伸到高速公路上。我的号角发出痛苦的轰鸣声，但为时已晚。我猛踩刹车，但我的动力太大了，在我面前有一辆汽车横穿了我的路线。下一秒就会发生沉船事故。我做了唯一能做的事，一巴掌跑进右边的树篱，相信能在远处找到柔软的东西。

But there I was mistaken. My car slithered through the hedge like butter, and then gave a sickening plunge forward. I saw what was coming, leapt on the seat and would have jumped out. But a branch of hawthorn got me in the chest, lifted me up and held me, while a ton or two of expensive metal slipped below me, bucked and pitched, and then dropped with an almighty smash fifty feet to the bed of the stream.
但我错了。我的车像黄油一样滑过树篱，然后令人作呕地向前猛冲。我看到了即将发生的事情，跳上座位并想跳出去。但一根山楂枝卡在了我的胸口，把我举了起来，托住了我，而一两吨昂贵的金属则从我身下滑落，颠簸、倾斜，然后猛烈地摔落到五十英尺高的河床上。

Slowly that thorn let me go. I subsided first on the hedge, and then very gently on a bower of nettles. As I scrambled to my feet a hand took me by the arm, and a sympathetic and badly scared voice asked me if I were hurt.
慢慢地，那根刺让我离开了。我先是趴在树篱上，然后轻轻地趴在荨麻凉亭上。当我爬起来时，一只手抓住了我的手臂，一个充满同情和害怕的声音问我是否受伤了。

I found myself looking at a tall young man in goggles and a leather ulster, who kept on blessing his soul and whinnying apologies. For myself, once I got my wind back, I was rather glad than otherwise. This was one way of getting rid of the car.
我发现自己看着一个戴着护目镜、穿着皮革外套的高个子年轻人，他不断地祝福自己的灵魂，并哀嚎着道歉。对于我自己来说，一旦我恢复了平静，我就感到非常高兴。这是摆脱汽车的一种方法。

‘My blame, Sir,’ I answered him. ‘It’s lucky that I did not add homicide to my follies. That’s the end of my Scotch motor tour, but it might have been the end of my life.’
“这都是我的错，先生。”我回答他。 “很幸运，我没有在我的愚蠢行为中加上杀人罪。这是我的苏格兰汽车之旅的结束，但这可能是我生命的结束。

He plucked out a watch and studied it. ‘You’re the right sort of fellow,’ he said. ‘I can spare a quarter of an hour, and my house is two minutes off. I’ll see you clothed and fed and snug in bed. Where’s your kit, by the way? Is it in the burn along with the car?’
他掏出一块手表来研究。 “你是个合适的人，”他说。 “我可以腾出一刻钟的时间，而我家则需要两分钟的时间。我会看到你穿好衣服、吃饱、舒服地躺在床上。顺便问一下，你的工具包在哪里？它和汽车一起被烧毁了吗？

‘It’s in my pocket,’ I said, brandishing a toothbrush. ‘I’m a Colonial and travel light.’
“它在我的口袋里。”我挥舞着牙刷说道。 “我是一名殖民地居民，喜欢轻装出行。”

‘A Colonial,’ he cried. ‘By Gad, you’re the very man I’ve been praying for. Are you by any blessed chance a Free Trader?’
“一个殖民地，”他喊道。 ‘天哪，你就是我一直在祈祷的人。你有幸成为自由贸易者吗？

‘I am,’ said I, without the foggiest notion of what he meant.
“是的。”我说道，但完全不明白他的意思。

He patted my shoulder and hurried me into his car. Three minutes later we drew up before a comfortable-looking shooting box set among pine-trees, and he ushered me indoors. He took me first to a bedroom and flung half a dozen of his suits before me, for my own had been pretty well reduced to rags. I selected a loose blue serge, which differed most conspicuously from my former garments, and borrowed a linen collar. Then he haled me to the dining-room, where the remnants of a meal stood on the table, and announced that I had just five minutes to feed. ‘You can take a snack in your pocket, and we’ll have supper when we get back. I’ve got to be at the Masonic Hall at eight o’clock, or my agent will comb my hair.’
他拍了拍我的肩膀，催促我上了他的车。三分钟后，我们在松树丛中一个看起来很舒服的射击场前停了下来，他把我带进了室内。他先把我带到一间卧室，把他的六套衣服扔到我面前，因为我的衣服已经破烂不堪了。我选择了一件宽松的蓝色哔叽，它与我以前的衣服最明显不同，并借了一个亚麻领子。然后他把我拖到餐厅，桌子上摆着饭菜的残渣，并宣布我只有五分钟的时间吃饭。 “你可以在口袋里放点零食，我们回来后就吃晚饭。”我必须在八点钟到达共济会大厅，否则我的经纪人就会帮我梳头。”

I had a cup of coffee and some cold ham, while he yarned away on the hearth-rug.
我喝了一杯咖啡和一些冷火腿，而他则在炉边地毯上闲聊。

‘You find me in the deuce of a mess, Mr by-the-by, you haven’t told me your name. Twisdon? Any relation of old Tommy Twisdon of the Sixtieth? No? Well, you see I’m Liberal Candidate for this part of the world, and I had a meeting on tonight at Brattleburn that’s my chief town, and an infernal Tory stronghold. I had got the Colonial ex-Premier fellow, Crumpleton, coming to speak for me tonight, and had the thing tremendously billed and the whole place ground-baited. This afternoon I had a wire from the ruffian saying he had got influenza at Blackpool, and here am I left to do the whole thing myself. I had meant to speak for ten minutes and must now go on for forty, and, though I’ve been racking my brains for three hours to think of something, I simply cannot last the course. Now you’ve got to be a good chap and help me. You’re a Free Trader and can tell our people what a wash-out Protection is in the Colonies. All you fellows have the gift of the gab I wish to Heaven I had it. I’ll be for evermore in your debt.’
“你发现我陷入了困境，顺便说一句，你还没告诉我你的名字。特维斯顿？六十年代的老汤米·特威斯顿有亲戚吗？不？好吧，你看，我是世界这个地区的自由党候选人，今晚我在布拉特尔本举行了一次会议，那是我的主要城镇，也是一个地狱般的保守党据点。今晚我请了殖民地前首相克鲁普尔顿来为我发言，并为这件事开出了巨额账单，整个地方都陷入了困境。今天下午，我收到了那个恶棍发来的电报，说他在布莱克浦得了流感，现在我只能自己做这一切了。我本来想讲十分钟，现在必须讲四十分钟，尽管我已经绞尽脑汁想了三个小时，但我根本无法坚持讲完这堂课。现在你必须成为一个好人并帮助我。您是一名自由贸易者，可以告诉我们的人民什么是殖民地的淘汰保护。你们所有人都有能说会道的天赋，但愿我也有这样的天赋。我将永远欠你的情。

I had very few notions about Free Trade one way or the other, but I saw no other chance to get what I wanted. My young gentleman was far too absorbed in his own difficulties to think how odd it was to ask a stranger who had just missed death by an ace and had lost a 1,000-guinea car to address a meeting for him on the spur of the moment. But my necessities did not allow me to contemplate oddnesses or to pick and choose my supports.
我对自由贸易的想法很少，但我看不到其他机会得到我想要的东西。我的年轻绅士太专注于自己的困难，根本没有想到让一个刚刚被王牌错失良机并失去了一辆价值 1,000 基尼汽车的陌生人一时冲动为他在会议上发言是多么奇怪。但我的需要不允许我思考奇怪的事情或挑选我的支持。

‘All right,’ I said. ‘I’m not much good as a speaker, but I’ll tell them a bit about Australia.’
“好吧，”我说。 “我不太擅长演讲，但我会告诉他们一些关于澳大利亚的事情。”

At my words the cares of the ages slipped from his shoulders, and he was rapturous in his thanks. He lent me a big driving coat and never troubled to ask why I had started on a motor tour without possessing an ulster and, as we slipped down the dusty roads, poured into my ears the simple facts of his history. He was an orphan, and his uncle had brought him up I’ve forgotten the uncle’s name, but he was in the Cabinet, and you can read his speeches in the papers. He had gone round the world after leaving Cambridge, and then, being short of a job, his uncle had advised politics. I gathered that he had no preference in parties. ‘Good chaps in both,’ he said cheerfully, ‘and plenty of blighters, too. I’m Liberal, because my family have always been Whigs.’ But if he was lukewarm politically he had strong views on other things. He found out I knew a bit about horses, and jawed away about the Derby entries; and he was full of plans for improving his shooting. Altogether, a very clean, decent, callow young man.
听了我的话，多年来的忧虑从他的肩膀上消失了，他欣喜若狂地表示感谢。他借给我一件大外套，从来不费力地问我为什么在没有阿尔斯特的情况下开始汽车旅行，当我们沿着尘土飞扬的道路滑行时，他向我耳边讲述了他的简单历史事实。他是个孤儿，是他叔叔把他带大的。我忘记了叔叔的名字，但他是内阁成员，你可以在报纸上读到他的演讲。离开剑桥后，他环游世界，后来由于缺乏工作，他的叔叔开始从政。我推测他对聚会没有偏好。 “两者都是好人，”他高兴地说，“但也有很多坏蛋。”我是自由派，因为我的家人一直是辉格党。”但即使他在政治上不冷不热，他对其他事情也有强烈的看法。他发现我对马略知一二，就对德比参赛的事情喋喋不休。他充满了提高投篮能力的计划。总而言之，是一个非常干净、正派、稚嫩的年轻人。

As we passed through a little town two policemen signalled us to stop, and flashed their lanterns on us.
当我们经过一个小镇时，两名警察示意我们停车，并向我们照射灯笼。

‘Beg pardon, Sir Harry,’ said one. ‘We’ve got instructions to look out for a car, and the description’s no unlike yours.’
“请原谅，哈利爵士，”其中一人说道。 “我们收到了寻找汽车的说明，并且描述与您的描述没有什么不同。”

‘Right-o,’ said my host, while I thanked Providence for the devious ways I had been brought to safety. After that he spoke no more, for his mind began to labour heavily with his coming speech. His lips kept muttering, his eye wandered, and I began to prepare myself for a second catastrophe. I tried to think of something to say myself, but my mind was dry as a stone. The next thing I knew we had drawn up outside a door in a street, and were being welcomed by some noisy gentlemen with rosettes. The hall had about five hundred in it, women mostly, a lot of bald heads, and a dozen or two young men. The chairman, a weaselly minister with a reddish nose, lamented Crumpleton’s absence, soliloquized on his influenza, and gave me a certificate as a ‘trusted leader of Australian thought’. There were two policemen at the door, and I hoped they took note of that testimonial. Then Sir Harry started.
“好吧，”我的主人说，同时我感谢上帝以不正当的方式把我带到了安全的地方。此后他不再说话，因为他的思绪开始为即将到来的演讲而劳累。他的嘴唇不停地嘀咕着，他的目光游移着，我开始为第二次灾难做好准备。我试着想自己说点什么，但我的头脑像石头一样干燥。接下来我知道我们已经停在街上的一扇门外，受到了一些戴着玫瑰花饰的喧闹绅士的欢迎。大厅里大约有五百人，大部分是女性，还有不少光头，还有十几两个年轻男子。主席是一位长着红鼻子、狡猾的部长，他对克朗普尔顿的缺席表示遗憾，自言自语地谈论了他的流感，并向我颁发了“值得信赖的澳大利亚思想领袖”的证书。门口有两名警察，我希望他们注意到了这份证词。然后哈利爵士开始了。

I never heard anything like it. He didn’t begin to know how to talk. He had about a bushel of notes from which he read, and when he let go of them he fell into one prolonged stutter. Every now and then he remembered a phrase he had learned by heart, straightened his back, and gave it off like Henry Irving, and the next moment he was bent double and crooning over his papers. It was the most appalling rot, too. He talked about the ‘German menace’, and said it was all a Tory invention to cheat the poor of their rights and keep back the great flood of social reform, but that ‘organized labour’ realized this and laughed the Tories to scorn. He was all for reducing our Navy as a proof of our good faith, and then sending Germany an ultimatum telling her to do the same or we would knock her into a cocked hat. He said that, but for the Tories, Germany and Britain would be fellow-workers in peace and reform. I thought of the little black book in my pocket! A giddy lot Scudder’s friends cared for peace and reform.
我从来没有听说过类似的事情。他开始不知道如何说话。他有大约一蒲式耳的笔记可供阅读，当他放开笔记时，他陷入了长时间的结巴。他时不时地想起一句他背下来的短语，挺起背，像亨利·欧文一样把它说出来，然后他就弯下腰，低声低吟着他的论文。这也是最可怕的腐烂。他谈到了“德国的威胁”，并说这完全是保守党的发明，目的是欺骗穷人的权利并阻止社会改革的大潮，但“有组织的劳工”意识到了这一点，并嘲笑了保守党。他完全赞成削减我们的海军，以证明我们的诚意，然后向德国发出最后通牒，告诉她也这样做，否则我们就会把她打得落花流水。他说，如果没有保守党，德国和英国将成为和平与改革的同事。我想到了我口袋里的那本小黑书！斯卡德的很多朋友都热衷于和平与改革。

Yet in a queer way I liked the speech. You could see the niceness of the chap shining out behind the muck with which he had been spoon-fed. Also it took a load off my mind. I mightn’t be much of an orator, but I was a thousand per cent better than Sir Harry.
然而，我以一种奇怪的方式喜欢这个演讲。你可以看到这个小伙子在他被喂食的淤泥后面闪闪发光的善良。这也减轻了我的负担。我可能不是什么演说家，但我比哈利爵士强了百分之一千。

I didn’t get on so badly when it came to my turn. I simply told them all I could remember about Australia, praying there should be no Australian there all about its labour party and emigration and universal service. I doubt if I remembered to mention Free Trade, but I said there were no Tories in Australia, only Labour and Liberals. That fetched a cheer, and I woke them up a bit when I started in to tell them the kind of glorious business I thought could be made out of the Empire if we really put our backs into it.
轮到我的时候，我的表现并没有那么糟糕。我只是简单地告诉他们我所记得的关于澳大利亚的一切，祈祷那里不应该有澳大利亚人谈论其工党、移民和普遍服务。我怀疑我是否记得提到自由贸易，但我说过澳大利亚没有保守党，只有工党和自由党。这让他们欢呼雀跃，当我开始告诉他们我认为如果我们真正全力以赴的话，帝国可以创造出辉煌的事业时，我把他们吵醒了一点。

Altogether I fancy I was rather a success. The minister didn’t like me, though, and when he proposed a vote of thanks, spoke of Sir Harry’s speech as ‘statesmanlike’ and mine as having ‘the eloquence of an emigration agent’.
总而言之，我认为我相当成功。不过，部长不喜欢我，当他提议投感谢票时，他说哈里爵士的演讲具有“政治家风范”，而我的演讲则具有“移民代理人的口才”。

When we were in the car again my host was in wild spirits at having got his job over. ‘A ripping speech, Twisdon,’ he said. ‘Now, you’re coming home with me. I’m all alone, and if you’ll stop a day or two I’ll show you some very decent fishing.’
当我们再次坐上车时，主人因完成工作而兴高采烈。 “特威斯登，这是一场撕心裂肺的演讲，”他说。 ‘现在，你要跟我一起回家了。我孤身一人，如果你能停下来一两天，我会带你去一些非常不错的钓鱼点。

We had a hot supper and I wanted it pretty badly and then drank grog in a big cheery smoking-room with a crackling wood fire. I thought the time had come for me to put my cards on the table. I saw by this man’s eye that he was the kind you can trust.
我们吃了一顿热腾腾的晚餐，我非常想吃，然后在一间欢快的大吸烟室里喝了烈酒，那里生着噼啪作响的柴火。我认为是时候摊牌了。我从这个人的眼睛里看出他是那种值得信赖的人。

‘Listen, Sir Harry,’ I said. ‘I’ve something pretty important to say to you. You’re a good fellow, and I’m going to be frank. Where on earth did you get that poisonous rubbish you talked tonight?’
“听着，哈利爵士，”我说。 ‘我有非常重要的事情要对你说。你是个好人，我会坦白地说。你今晚说的那些有毒的废话到底是从哪里来的？

His face fell. ‘Was it as bad as that?’ he asked ruefully. ‘It did sound rather thin. I got most of it out of the PROGRESSIVE MAGAZINE and pamphlets that agent chap of mine keeps sending me. But you surely don’t think Germany would ever go to war with us?’
他的脸沉了下来。 “有那么糟糕吗？”他悲伤地问道。 ‘听起来确实很薄。我的大部分内容都是从《进步杂志》和我的经纪人不断寄给我的小册子中得到的。但你肯定不认为德国会与我们开战吗？

‘Ask that question in six weeks and it won’t need an answer,’ I said. ‘If you’ll give me your attention for half an hour I am going to tell you a story.’
“六周内问这个问题，就不需要答案了，”我说。 “如果你能集中注意力半个小时，我就给你讲一个故事。”

I can see yet that bright room with the deers’ heads and the old prints on the walls, Sir Harry standing restlessly on the stone curb of the hearth, and myself lying back in an armchair, speaking. I seemed to be another person, standing aside and listening to my own voice, and judging carefully the reliability of my tale. It was the first time I had ever told anyone the exact truth, so far as I understood it, and it did me no end of good, for it straightened out the thing in my own mind. I blinked no detail. He heard all about Scudder, and the milkman, and the note-book, and my doings in Galloway. Presently he got very excited and walked up and down the hearth-rug.
我仍然可以看到那间明亮的房间，里面有鹿头，墙上有旧版画，哈利爵士不安地站在炉边的石边上，而我自己则躺在扶手椅上，说话。我仿佛变成了另一个人，站在一旁听着自己的声音，仔细地判断着我的故事的可靠性。这是我第一次告诉任何人确切的真相，就我所知而言，这对我有无穷的好处，因为它理清了我自己的想法。我眨了眨眼睛没有细节。他听说了有关斯卡德、送奶工、笔记本以及我在加洛韦所做的一切。不久他变得非常兴奋，在炉边地毯上走来走去。

‘So you see,’ I concluded, ‘you have got here in your house the man that is wanted for the Portland Place murder. Your duty is to send your car for the police and give me up. I don’t think I’ll get very far. There’ll be an accident, and I’ll have a knife in my ribs an hour or so after arrest. Nevertheless, it’s your duty, as a law-abiding citizen. Perhaps in a month’s time you’ll be sorry, but you have no cause to think of that.’
“所以你看，”我总结道，“波特兰广场谋杀案的通缉犯就在你家里。”你的职责就是把你的车交给警察并交出我。我认为我不会走得太远。将会发生事故，被捕后大约一个小时，我的肋骨就会被一把刀刺中。尽管如此，作为一个守法公民，这是你的责任。也许一个月后你会后悔，但你没有理由这么想。

He was looking at me with bright steady eyes. ‘What was your job in Rhodesia, Mr Hannay?’ he asked.
他用明亮而坚定的眼睛看着我。 “汉内先生，你在罗得西亚的工作是什么？”他问道。

‘Mining engineer,’ I said. ‘I’ve made my pile cleanly and I’ve had a good time in the making of it.’
“采矿工程师，”我说。 “我已经把我的一堆堆干净了，而且我在制作过程中度过了一段愉快的时光。”

‘Not a profession that weakens the nerves, is it?’
“这不是一个让人神经衰弱的职业，不是吗？”

I laughed. ‘Oh, as to that, my nerves are good enough.’ I took down a hunting-knife from a stand on the wall, and did the old Mashona trick of tossing it and catching it in my lips. That wants a pretty steady heart.
我笑了。 “哦，至于这一点，我的神经足够好。”我从墙上的架子上取下一把猎刀，然后做了马绍纳的老把戏，把它扔出去，然后用嘴唇接住。那需要一颗相当稳定的心。

He watched me with a smile. ‘I don’t want proof. I may be an ass on the platform, but I can size up a man. You’re no murderer and you’re no fool, and I believe you are speaking the truth. I’m going to back you up. Now, what can I do?’
他微笑着看着我。 ‘我不需要证据。我可能是站台上的一个混蛋，但我可以打量一个人。你不是杀人犯，也不是傻瓜，我相信你说的是实话。我会支持你的。现在，我能做什么？

‘First, I want you to write a letter to your uncle. I’ve got to get in touch with the Government people sometime before the 15th of June.’
“首先，我要你给你叔叔写一封信。我必须在 6 月 15 日之前与政府人员取得联系。

He pulled his moustache. ‘That won’t help you. This is Foreign Office business, and my uncle would have nothing to do with it. Besides, you’d never convince him. No, I’ll go one better. I’ll write to the Permanent Secretary at the Foreign Office. He’s my godfather, and one of the best going. What do you want?’
他拉了拉小胡子。 ‘那对你没有帮助。这是外交部的事，我叔叔不会插手的。此外，你永远无法说服他。不，我会去更好的。我会写信给外交部常务秘书。他是我的教父，也是最优秀的教父之一。你想要什么？'

He sat down at a table and wrote to my dictation. The gist of it was that if a man called Twisdon (I thought I had better stick to that name) turned up before June 15th he was to entreat him kindly. He said Twisdon would prove his bona fides by passing the word ‘Black Stone’ and whistling ‘Annie Laurie’.
他在一张桌子旁坐下，按照我的口述写下了内容。其要点是，如果一个叫特威斯登（我想我最好还是用这个名字）的人在 6 月 15 日之前出现，他就应该善意地恳求他。他说特威斯登将通过传递“黑石”这个词并吹口哨“安妮·劳里”来证明他的诚意。

‘Good,’ said Sir Harry. ‘That’s the proper style. By the way, you’ll find my godfather his name’s Sir Walter Bullivant down at his country cottage for Whitsuntide. It’s close to Artinswell on the Kenner. That’s done. Now, what’s the next thing?’
“很好，”哈利爵士说。 ‘这才是正确的风格。顺便说一句，你会在圣灵降临节期间在他的乡村小屋里找到我的教父，他的名字叫沃尔特·布利万特爵士。它靠近肯纳 (Kenner) 的阿廷斯韦尔 (Artinswell)。这样就完成了。现在，下一步是什么？

‘You’re about my height. Lend me the oldest tweed suit you’ve got. Anything will do, so long as the colour is the opposite of the clothes I destroyed this afternoon. Then show me a map of the neighbourhood and explain to me the lie of the land. Lastly, if the police come seeking me, just show them the car in the glen. If the other lot turn up, tell them I caught the south express after your meeting.’
‘你和我差不多高。把你最旧的花呢套装借给我。任何东西都可以，只要颜色与我今天下午毁掉的衣服相反即可。然后给我看一张附近的地图，并向我解释这片土地的位置。最后，如果警察来找我，只要给他们看峡谷里的车就行了。如果其他人出现，请告诉他们我在你们见面后乘坐了南方快车。

He did, or promised to do, all these things. I shaved off the remnants of my moustache, and got inside an ancient suit of what I believe is called heather mixture. The map gave me some notion of my whereabouts, and told me the two things I wanted to know where the main railway to the south could be joined and what were the wildest districts near at hand. At two o’clock he wakened me from my slumbers in the smoking-room armchair, and led me blinking into the dark starry night. An old bicycle was found in a tool-shed and handed over to me.
他做了或者承诺要做所有这些事情。我剃掉了残留的小胡子，穿上了一套我认为是石南混合物制成的古老套装。地图让我知道了自己所在的位置，并告诉了我两件事，我想知道通往南方的主要铁路可以在哪里连接，以及附近最荒凉的地区是什么。两点钟，他把我从吸烟室扶手椅上的睡梦中叫醒，带我眨着眼睛走进漆黑的星夜。在工具棚里发现了一辆旧自行车交给了我。

‘First turn to the right up by the long fir-wood,’ he enjoined. ‘By daybreak you’ll be well into the hills. Then I should pitch the machine into a bog and take to the moors on foot. You can put in a week among the shepherds, and be as safe as if you were in New Guinea.’
“首先沿着长杉木向右转，”他吩咐道。 “天一亮，你就已经进山了。然后我应该把机器扔进沼泽，然后步行前往荒野。你可以在牧羊人中间待上一周，就像在新几内亚一样安全。”

I pedalled diligently up steep roads of hill gravel till the skies grew pale with morning. As the mists cleared before the sun, I found myself in a wide green world with glens falling on every side and a far-away blue horizon. Here, at any rate, I could get early news of my enemies.
我在陡峭的山路上勤奋地踩着碎石路，直到天空因早晨而变得苍白。当薄雾在太阳面前散去时，我发现自己置身于一个广阔的绿色世界，四面都是峡谷，远处是蓝色的地平线。无论如何，在这里我可以尽早得到敌人的消息。

CHAPTER FIVE
第五章

The Adventure of the Spectacled Roadman
眼镜路人的冒险

I sat down on the very crest of the pass and took stock of my position.
我在山口的山顶坐下来评估我的位置。

Behind me was the road climbing through a long cleft in the hills, which was the upper glen of some notable river. In front was a flat space of maybe a mile, all pitted with bog-holes and rough with tussocks, and then beyond it the road fell steeply down another glen to a plain whose blue dimness melted into the distance. To left and right were round-shouldered green hills as smooth as pancakes, but to the south that is, the left hand there was a glimpse of high heathery mountains, which I remembered from the map as the big knot of hill which I had chosen for my sanctuary. I was on the central boss of a huge upland country, and could see everything moving for miles. In the meadows below the road half a mile back a cottage smoked, but it was the only sign of human life. Otherwise there was only the calling of plovers and the tinkling of little streams.
我身后是一条穿过山上一条长长的裂缝的路，那是一条著名河流的上游峡谷。前面是一块大约一英里长的平坦空地，到处都是沼泽坑和长满草丛的崎岖不平的地方，然后越过它，道路陡峭地向下延伸到另一个峡谷，通向一片平原，平原的蓝色昏暗融入了远方。左右都是光滑如煎饼的圆肩青山，而南边，也就是左手边，隐约可见高高的石南山，我在地图上记得，那是我选的那座大山丘。为了我的庇护所。我在一个巨大的高地国家的中心地带，可以看到数英里内一切事物的移动。半英里后路下方的草地上，一座小屋冒着烟，但这是人类生命的唯一迹象。除此之外，只有鸻的叫声和小溪的叮当声。

It was now about seven o’clock, and as I waited I heard once again that ominous beat in the air. Then I realized that my vantageground might be in reality a trap. There was no cover for a tomtit in those bald green places.
现在大约七点钟了，当我等待时，我再次听到空气中传来不祥的敲击声。然后我意识到我的优势实际上可能是一个陷阱。那些秃绿的地方没有山雀的庇护所。

I sat quite still and hopeless while the beat grew louder. Then I saw an aeroplane coming up from the east. It was flying high, but as I looked it dropped several hundred feet and began to circle round the knot of hill in narrowing circles, just as a hawk wheels before it pounces. Now it was flying very low, and now the observer on board caught sight of me. I could see one of the two occupants examining me through glasses.
我静静地坐着，绝望地看着节拍声越来越响。然后我看到一架飞机从东方飞来。它飞得很高，但当我看到它时，它下降了数百英尺，并开始绕着山丘的圈子缩小，就像一只鹰在猛扑之前盘旋一样。现在它飞得很低，机上的观察员看到了我。我可以看到两名乘客中的一名通过眼镜检查我。

Suddenly it began to rise in swift whorls, and the next I knew it was speeding eastward again till it became a speck in the blue morning.
突然，它开始快速旋转，接下来我知道它又开始向东加速，直到变成蓝色早晨中的一个斑点。

That made me do some savage thinking. My enemies had located me, and the next thing would be a cordon round me. I didn’t know what force they could command, but I was certain it would be sufficient. The aeroplane had seen my bicycle, and would conclude that I would try to escape by the road. In that case there might be a chance on the moors to the right or left. I wheeled the machine a hundred yards from the highway, and plunged it into a moss-hole, where it sank among pond-weed and water-buttercups. Then I climbed to a knoll which gave me a view of the two valleys. Nothing was stirring on the long white ribbon that threaded them.
这让我产生了一些野蛮的想法。我的敌人已经找到了我，接下来就是在我周围设置警戒线。我不知道他们能指挥什么力量，但我确信这已经足够了。飞机看到了我的自行车，并断定我会尝试沿路逃跑。在这种情况下，右侧或左侧的荒原上可能有机会。我把机器开到离高速公路一百码远的地方，然后把它扔进一个苔藓洞里，它沉入了池塘杂草和水毛茛之中。然后我爬到一个小山丘上，从那里可以看到两个山谷的景色。穿过他们的白色长丝带上没有任何动静。

I have said there was not cover in the whole place to hide a rat. As the day advanced it was flooded with soft fresh light till it had the fragrant sunniness of the South African veld. At other times I would have liked the place, but now it seemed to suffocate me. The free moorlands were prison walls, and the keen hill air was the breath of a dungeon.
我说过整个地方没有遮盖物可以藏老鼠。随着时间的推移，这里充满了柔和的新鲜光线，直到充满了南非草原芬芳的阳光。在其他时候我会喜欢这个地方，但现在它似乎让我窒息。自由的荒野是监狱的围墙，山间刺鼻的空气是地牢的气息。

I tossed a coin heads right, tails left and it fell heads, so I turned to the north. In a little I came to the brow of the ridge which was the containing wall of the pass. I saw the highroad for maybe ten miles, and far down it something that was moving, and that I took to be a motor-car. Beyond the ridge I looked on a rolling green moor, which fell away into wooded glens.
我把一枚硬币朝右抛，反面朝左，结果正面朝下，所以我转向北方。不一会儿，我就来到了山脊的顶端，那是山口的围墙。我看到那条大约有十英里的公路，远处有东西在移动，我以为那是一辆汽车。越过山脊，我看到了连绵起伏的绿色荒原，它逐渐消失在树木繁茂的峡谷中。

Now my life on the veld has given me the eyes of a kite, and I can see things for which most men need a telescope ... Away down the slope, a couple of miles away, several men were advancing. like a row of beaters at a shoot ...
现在，我在草原上的生活给了我一双风筝的眼睛，我可以看到大多数人需要望远镜才能看到的东西……沿着斜坡，几英里外，有几个人正在前进。就像射击时的一排击球手......

I dropped out of sight behind the sky-line. That way was shut to me, and I must try the bigger hills to the south beyond the highway. The car I had noticed was getting nearer, but it was still a long way off with some very steep gradients before it. I ran hard, crouching low except in the hollows, and as I ran I kept scanning the brow of the hill before me. Was it imagination, or did I see figures one, two, perhaps more moving in a glen beyond the stream?
我消失在天际线后面。那条路对我来说是关闭的，我必须尝试一下高速公路以南的更大的山丘。我注意到那辆车越来越近了，但距离仍然很远，前面有一些非常陡峭的坡度。我拼命地跑，除了在洼地里外，我都蹲得很低，一边跑，一边不停地扫视着我面前的山峰。是我的想象，还是我看到了人物一、二，或许还有更多的人物在溪边的峡谷里移动？

If you are hemmed in on all sides in a patch of land there is only one chance of escape. You must stay in the patch, and let your enemies search it and not find you. That was good sense, but how on earth was I to escape notice in that table-cloth of a place? I would have buried myself to the neck in mud or lain below water or climbed the tallest tree. But there was not a stick of wood, the bog-holes were little puddles, the stream was a slender trickle. There was nothing but short heather, and bare hill bent, and the white highway.
如果你在一块土地上四面八方被包围，就只有一次逃脱的机会。你必须留在补丁中，让你的敌人搜索它而找不到你。这话很有道理，但我到底怎样才能在铺着桌布的地方逃脱别人的注意呢？我会把自己埋在泥里，或者躺在水下，或者爬上最高的树。但没有一根木棍，沼泽坑只是小水坑，溪流是细流。除了矮小的石南花、光秃秃的山坡和白色的公路之外，什么也没有。

Then in a tiny bight of road, beside a heap of stones, I found the roadman.
然后在一个小路口，在一堆石头旁边，我找到了修路人。

He had just arrived, and was wearily flinging down his hammer. He looked at me with a fishy eye and yawned.
他刚到，正疲倦地扔下锤子。他用鱼眼看着我，打了个哈欠。

‘Confoond the day I ever left the herdin’!’ he said, as if to the world at large. ‘There I was my ain maister. Now I’m a slave to the Goavernment, tethered to the roadside, wi’ sair een, and a back like a suckle.’
“让我离开牧群的那一天变得更糟吧！”他说道，仿佛是对整个世界。 ‘在那里我是我的主人。现在我是政府的奴隶，被拴在路边，没有任何东西，背部像个乳儿。

He took up the hammer, struck a stone, dropped the implement with an oath, and put both hands to his ears. ‘Mercy on me! My heid’s burstin’!’ he cried.
他拿起锤子，敲击一块石头，咒骂着扔下工具，双手捂住耳朵。 ‘怜悯我吧！我的头要爆炸了！”他喊道。

He was a wild figure, about my own size but much bent, with a week’s beard on his chin, and a pair of big horn spectacles.
他是个狂野的人物，和我差不多大，但弯着腰，下巴上留着一周的胡子，戴着一副大牛角眼镜。

‘I canna dae’t,’ he cried again. ‘The Surveyor maun just report me. I’m for my bed.’
“我不能，”他又哭了。 “测量员马恩刚刚报告了我。我要去睡觉了。

I asked him what was the trouble, though indeed that was clear enough.
我问他出了什么问题，尽管这确实很清楚。

‘The trouble is that I’m no sober. Last nicht my dochter Merran was waddit, and they danced till fower in the byre. Me and some ither chiels sat down to the drinkin’, and here I am. Peety that I ever lookit on the wine when it was red!’
‘问题是我不清醒。昨天晚上，我的医生梅兰（Merran）很高兴，他们在牛栏里跳舞直到结束。我和其他一些人坐下来喝酒，我就在这里。天哪，我在酒是红色的时候就看过它！

I agreed with him about bed. ‘It’s easy speakin’,’ he moaned. ‘But I got a postcard yestreen sayin’ that the new Road Surveyor would be round the day. He’ll come and he’ll no find me, or else he’ll find me fou, and either way I’m a done man. I’ll awa’ back to my bed and say I’m no weel, but I doot that’ll no help me, for they ken my kind o’ no-weel-ness.’
关于床的问题我同意他的观点。 “说起来很容易”，他呻吟道。 “但是我昨天收到了一张明信片，上面写着新的道路测量员将会在这一天出现。”他会来，但他不会找到我，否则他会找到我，无论哪种方式，我都完了。我会回到床上，说我不乖，但我相信这对我没有帮助，因为他们知道我是那种不乖的人。

Then I had an inspiration. ‘Does the new Surveyor know you?’ I asked.
然后我有了灵感。 “新任测量员认识你吗？”我问。

‘No him. He’s just been a week at the job. He rins about in a wee motor-cawr, and wad speir the inside oot o’ a whelk.’
‘没有他。他刚上班一周。他开着一辆小摩托，冲来冲去，然后挖出海螺里面的东西。

‘Where’s your house?’ I asked, and was directed by a wavering finger to the cottage by the stream.
“你的房子在哪里？”我问道，一根颤抖的手指指引我走向溪边的小屋。

‘Well, back to your bed,’ I said, ‘and sleep in peace. I’ll take on your job for a bit and see the Surveyor.’
“好吧，回到你的床上去吧，”我说，“安心地睡吧。”我会暂时接替你的工作并去见测量员。”

He stared at me blankly; then, as the notion dawned on his fuddled brain, his face broke into the vacant drunkard’s smile.
他茫然地看着我；然后，当这个想法在他混乱的大脑中浮现时，他的脸上露出了茫然的醉汉的微笑。

‘You’re the billy,’ he cried. ‘It’ll be easy eneuch managed. I’ve finished that bing o’ stanes, so you needna chap ony mair this forenoon. just take the barry, and wheel eneuch metal frae yon quarry doon the road to mak anither bing the morn. My name’s Alexander Turnbull, and I’ve been seeven year at the trade, and twenty afore that herdin’ on Leithen Water. My freens ca’ me Ecky, and whiles Specky, for I wear glesses, being waik i’ the sicht. just you speak the Surveyor fair, and ca’ him Sir, and he’ll be fell pleased. I’ll be back or mid-day.’ I borrowed his spectacles and filthy old hat; stripped off coat, waistcoat, and collar, and gave him them to carry home; borrowed, too, the foul stump of a clay pipe as an extra property. He indicated my simple tasks, and without more ado set off at an amble bedwards. Bed may have been his chief object, but I think there was also something left in the foot of a bottle. I prayed that he might be safe under cover before my friends arrived on the scene.
“你就是比利，”他喊道。 “这很容易管理。”我已经完成了 bing o’ stanes，所以今天上午你需要找个小伙子。只需乘坐巴里，然后在采石场的路上行驶轮子就可以到达早晨的另一边。我叫亚历山大·特恩布尔，从事这个行业已经七年了，在莱森湖放牧之前已经有二十年了。我的自由人是我 Ecky，而 Specky，因为我戴着眼镜，正在等待。只要你公平地说测量员，称他为先生，他就会很高兴。我中午就回来。”我借了他的眼镜和脏兮兮的旧帽子。脱下外套、背心和衣领，交给他带回家。还借了一根肮脏的粘土烟斗残桩作为额外财产。他指示了我简单的任务，然后没有多费事就出发去床上散步。床可能是他的主要目标，但我认为瓶脚里还留下了一些东西。我祈祷在我的朋友到达现场之前他能安全地躲藏起来。

Then I set to work to dress for the part. I opened the collar of my shirt it was a vulgar blue-and-white check such as ploughmen wear and revealed a neck as brown as any tinker’s. I rolled up my sleeves, and there was a forearm which might have been a blacksmith’s, sunburnt and rough with old scars. I got my boots and trouser-legs all white from the dust of the road, and hitched up my trousers, tying them with string below the knee. Then I set to work on my face. With a handful of dust I made a water-mark round my neck, the place where Mr Turnbull’s Sunday ablutions might be expected to stop. I rubbed a good deal of dirt also into the sunburn of my cheeks. A roadman’s eyes would no doubt be a little inflamed, so I contrived to get some dust in both of mine, and by dint of vigorous rubbing produced a bleary effect.
然后我开始为这个角色打扮。我打开衬衫领子，那是一种粗俗的蓝白格子，就像农夫穿的那样，露出了像修补匠一样棕色的脖子。我卷起袖子，看到一只前臂，可能是铁匠的，晒黑了，粗糙，有旧伤疤。我把靴子和裤腿都被路上的灰尘弄白了，然后把裤子挽起来，用绳子把它们系在膝盖以下。然后我开始处理我的脸。我用一把灰尘在脖子上留下了一个水印，特恩布尔先生周日的沐浴可能会在这里停止。我还在晒伤的脸颊上擦了很多泥土。路人的眼睛无疑会有点发炎，所以我想方设法在两只眼睛里沾点灰尘，用力揉搓，产生了一种昏昏欲睡的效果。

The sandwiches Sir Harry had given me had gone off with my coat, but the roadman’s lunch, tied up in a red handkerchief, was at my disposal. I ate with great relish several of the thick slabs of scone and cheese and drank a little of the cold tea. In the handkerchief was a local paper tied with string and addressed to Mr Turnbull obviously meant to solace his mid-day leisure. I did up the bundle again, and put the paper conspicuously beside it.
哈利爵士给我的三明治已经和我的外套一起掉了，但路工的午餐用红手帕包起来，任我处置。我津津有味地吃了几块厚厚的烤饼和奶酪，还喝了一点冷茶。手帕里有一张当地报纸，用绳子系着，写给特恩布尔先生，显然是为了安慰他中午的闲暇时光。我又把那捆纸包好，把纸放在它旁边显眼的地方。

My boots did not satisfy me, but by dint of kicking among the stones I reduced them to the granite-like surface which marks a roadman’s foot-gear. Then I bit and scraped my finger-nails till the edges were all cracked and uneven. The men I was matched against would miss no detail. I broke one of the bootlaces and retied it in a clumsy knot, and loosed the other so that my thick grey socks bulged over the uppers. Still no sign of anything on the road. The motor I had observed half an hour ago must have gone home.
我的靴子并不能满足我的要求，但通过在石头之间踢腿，我把它们变成了花岗岩般的表面，这标志着修路工人的脚具。然后我又咬又刮我的指甲，直到边缘全部开裂且凹凸不平。我的对手不会错过任何细节。我把其中一根鞋带弄断，然后笨拙地把它重新系成一个结，又松开另一根，这样我的厚厚的灰色袜子就凸出了鞋面。路上仍然没有任何迹象。我半小时前观察到的马达肯定已经回家了。

My toilet complete, I took up the barrow and began my journeys to and from the quarry a hundred yards off.
上完厕所，我拿起手推车，开始往返于一百码外的采石场。

I remember an old scout in Rhodesia, who had done many queer things in his day, once telling me that the secret of playing a part was to think yourself into it. You could never keep it up, he said, unless you could manage to convince yourself that you were it. So I shut off all other thoughts and switched them on to the roadmending. I thought of the little white cottage as my home, I recalled the years I had spent herding on Leithen Water, I made my mind dwell lovingly on sleep in a box-bed and a bottle of cheap whisky. Still nothing appeared on that long white road.
我记得罗德西亚的一位老侦察兵，他在他那个时代做过很多奇怪的事情，有一次告诉我，扮演一个角色的秘诀就是让自己融入其中。他说，你永远无法坚持下去，除非你能说服自己，你就是这样的人。所以我关掉了所有其他的想法，把它们转向修路。我把白色的小小屋当作我的家，我回忆起我在莱森水边放牧的那些年，我让我的思绪在一张箱式床上和一瓶廉价威士忌中安然入眠。那条白色的长路上仍然什么也没有出现。

Now and then a sheep wandered off the heather to stare at me. A heron flopped down to a pool in the stream and started to fish, taking no more notice of me than if I had been a milestone. On I went, trundling my loads of stone, with the heavy step of the professional. Soon I grew warm, and the dust on my face changed into solid and abiding grit. I was already counting the hours till evening should put a limit to Mr Turnbull’s monotonous toil. Suddenly a crisp voice spoke from the road, and looking up I saw a little Ford two-seater, and a round-faced young man in a bowler hat.
不时有一只羊从石南花丛中走出来，盯着我看。一只苍鹭扑通扑通地落到溪流的水池里，开始钓鱼，完全没有注意到我，就好像我是一个里程碑一样。我继续前行，迈着专业人士的沉重步伐，拖着我的石头。很快我就暖和起来，脸上的灰尘变成了坚固而持久的砂砾。我已经在数着时间了，直到晚上，特恩布尔先生的单调劳作才算结束。突然，路上传来一声清脆的声音，抬头一看，看到一辆小型福特两座车，还有一个戴着圆顶礼帽的圆脸年轻人。

‘Are you Alexander Turnbull?’ he asked. ‘I am the new County Road Surveyor. You live at Blackhopefoot, and have charge of the section from Laidlawbyres to the Riggs? Good! A fair bit of road, Turnbull, and not badly engineered. A little soft about a mile off, and the edges want cleaning. See you look after that. Good morning. You’ll know me the next time you see me.’
“你是亚历山大·特恩布尔吗？”他问道。 “我是新任县道路测量员。你住在布莱克霍普富特，负责从莱德劳拜尔斯到里格斯的路段？好的！特恩布尔，这条路相当长，而且设计得还不错。大约一英里外有点软，边缘需要清洁。看你照顾那个。早上好。下次你见到我时你就会认识我了。

Clearly my get-up was good enough for the dreaded Surveyor. I went on with my work, and as the morning grew towards noon I was cheered by a little traffic. A baker’s van breasted the hill, and sold me a bag of ginger biscuits which I stowed in my trouserpockets against emergencies. Then a herd passed with sheep, and disturbed me somewhat by asking loudly, ‘What had become o’ Specky?’
显然，我的装扮对于可怕的测量员来说已经足够好了。我继续我的工作，随着时间临近中午，我因一些交通而感到高兴。一辆面包车开到山上，卖给我一袋姜饼干，我把它装在裤兜里以备不时之需。然后一群羊走过，大声问我，有点打扰我，“斯佩基出了什么事？”

‘In bed wi’ the colic,’ I replied, and the herd passed on ... just about mid-day a big car stole down the hill, glided past and drew up a hundred yards beyond. Its three occupants descended as if to stretch their legs, and sauntered towards me.
“在床上绞痛，”我回答道，然后牛群继续前行……大约中午，一辆大汽车偷偷下了山，滑行过去，停在一百码外。车里的三个人像伸伸腿一样下来，慢悠悠地朝我走来。

Two of the men I had seen before from the window of the Galloway inn one lean, sharp, and dark, the other comfortable and smiling. The third had the look of a countryman a vet, perhaps, or a small farmer. He was dressed in ill-cut knickerbockers, and the eye in his head was as bright and wary as a hen’s.
我以前在加洛韦旅馆的窗户里见过两个人，一个精瘦、锐利、肤色黝黑，另一个则很舒服、面带微笑。第三个人看起来像个乡下人，也许是个兽医，或者是个小农夫。他穿着剪裁不规则的灯笼裤，脑袋里的眼睛像母鸡的眼睛一样明亮而警惕。

‘Morning,’ said the last. ‘That’s a fine easy job o’ yours.’
“早上好，”最后一个说。 “你的工作真是太轻松了。”

I had not looked up on their approach, and now, when accosted, I slowly and painfully straightened my back, after the manner of roadmen; spat vigorously, after the manner of the low Scot; and regarded them steadily before replying. I confronted three pairs of eyes that missed nothing.
我没有抬头看他们走近，现在，当他们搭话时，我像修路人一样，慢慢地、痛苦地挺直了背。按照低等苏格兰人的方式，用力吐口水；定定地看着他们，然后才回答。我面对着三双眼睛，他们什么都没有错过。

‘There’s waur jobs and there’s better,’ I said sententiously. ‘I wad rather hae yours, sittin’ a’ day on your hinderlands on thae cushions. It’s you and your muckle cawrs that wreck my roads! If we a’ had oor richts, ye sud be made to mend what ye break.’
“有工作，还有更好的工作，”我简洁地说。 “我宁愿拥有你的，在你的腹地的垫子上坐上一天。”是你和你的胡言乱语破坏了我的道路！如果我们有能力，你们就必须去修补你们所破坏的东西。”

The bright-eyed man was looking at the newspaper lying beside Turnbull’s bundle.
那个眼睛明亮的男人正在看着特恩布尔包裹旁边的报纸。

‘I see you get your papers in good time,’ he said.
“我看到你及时拿到了文件，”他说。

I glanced at it casually. ‘Aye, in gude time. Seein’ that that paper cam’ out last Setterday I’m just Sax days late.’
我随意地看了一眼。是的，及时。看到那张纸去年六月就出来了，我只是迟到了萨克斯天。

He picked it up, glanced at the superscription, and laid it down again. One of the others had been looking at my boots, and a word in German called the speaker’s attention to them. ‘You’ve a fine taste in boots,’ he said. ‘These were never made by a country shoemaker.’
他拿起它，看了一眼上面的铭文，然后又放下了。其中一个人一直在看我的靴子，一个德语单词引起了说话者的注意。 “你对靴子的品味很好，”他说。 “这些从来都不是乡村鞋匠制造的。”

‘They were not,’ I said readily. ‘They were made in London. I got them frae the gentleman that was here last year for the shootin’. What was his name now?’ And I scratched a forgetful head. Again the sleek one spoke in German. ‘Let us get on,’ he said. ‘This fellow is all right.’
“他们不是，”我爽快地说。 “它们是在伦敦制造的。我从去年来这里拍摄的那位先生那里得到了它们。他现在叫什么名字？”我挠了挠健忘的头。这位圆滑的人又用德语说话。 “我们继续吧，”他说。 “这家伙没事。”

They asked one last question.
他们问了最后一个问题。

‘Did you see anyone pass early this morning? He might be on a bicycle or he might be on foot.’
“今天一大早你看到有人经过吗？他可能骑自行车，也可能步行。

I very nearly fell into the trap and told a story of a bicyclist hurrying past in the grey dawn. But I had the sense to see my danger. I pretended to consider very deeply.
我差点就掉进了陷阱，并讲述了一个骑自行车的人在灰蒙蒙的黎明中匆匆经过的故事。但我有意识地看到了我的危险。我假装考虑得很深。

‘I wasna up very early,’ I said. ‘Ye see, my dochter was merrit last nicht, and we keepit it up late. I opened the house door about seeven and there was naebody on the road then. Since I cam’ up here there has just been the baker and the Ruchill herd, besides you gentlemen.’
“我起得很早，”我说。 “是的，我的医生昨晚表现出色，我们一直坚持到很晚。七点左右我打开家门，当时路上没有人。自从我来到这里以来，除了你们先生们之外，就只有面包师和鲁奇尔牛群了。”

One of them gave me a cigar, which I smelt gingerly and stuck in Turnbull’s bundle. They got into their car and were out of sight in three minutes.
其中一个给了我一支雪茄，我小心翼翼地闻了闻，然后把它塞进了特恩布尔的包里。他们钻进车里，三分钟后就消失在人们的视线中。

My heart leaped with an enormous relief, but I went on wheeling my stones. It was as well, for ten minutes later the car returned, one of the occupants waving a hand to me. Those gentry left nothing to chance.
我的心如释重负地跳动起来，但我继续转动我的石头。十分钟后，汽车又回来了，其中一位乘客向我挥手。那些绅士们不遗余力。

I finished Turnbull’s bread and cheese, and pretty soon I had finished the stones. The next step was what puzzled me. I could not keep up this roadmaking business for long. A merciful Providence had kept Mr Turnbull indoors, but if he appeared on the scene there would be trouble. I had a notion that the cordon was still tight round the glen, and that if I walked in any direction I should meet with questioners. But get out I must. No man’s nerve could stand more than a day of being spied on.
我吃完了特恩布尔的面包和奶酪，很快我就吃完了石头。接下来的步骤是让我困惑的。我无法长期维持修路生意。仁慈的上帝让特恩布尔先生待在室内，但如果他出现在现场就会有麻烦。我有一个想法，峡谷周围的警戒线仍然很紧，如果我朝任何方向走，我都会遇到提问者。但我必须出去。没有人的勇气能够承受超过一天的监视。

I stayed at my post till five o’clock. By that time I had resolved to go down to Turnbull’s cottage at nightfall and take my chance of getting over the hills in the darkness. But suddenly a new car came up the road, and slowed down a yard or two from me. A fresh wind had risen, and the occupant wanted to light a cigarette. It was a touring car, with the tonneau full of an assortment of baggage. One man sat in it, and by an amazing chance I knew him. His name was Marmaduke jopley, and he was an offence to creation. He was a sort of blood stockbroker, who did his business by toadying eldest sons and rich young peers and foolish old ladies. ‘Marmie’ was a familiar figure, I understood, at balls and poloweeks and country houses. He was an adroit scandal-monger, and would crawl a mile on his belly to anything that had a title or a million. I had a business introduction to his firm when I came to London, and he was good enough to ask me to dinner at his club. There he showed off at a great rate, and pattered about his duchesses till the snobbery of the creature turned me sick. I asked a man afterwards why nobody kicked him, and was told that Englishmen reverenced the weaker sex.
我在岗位上一直坚守到五点钟。那时我已经决定在夜幕降临时前往特恩布尔的小屋，并抓住机会在黑暗中翻过山丘。但突然一辆新车出现在路上，并在离我一两码的地方减速。一阵清风吹起，住户想点一根烟。这是一辆旅行车，后车厢里装满了各种各样的行李。里面坐着一个人，我很偶然地认识了他。他的名字叫马默杜克·乔普利，他是对造物的冒犯。他是一个血统股票经纪人，通过阿谀奉承长子、富有的年轻同辈和愚蠢的老太太来做生意。据我所知，在舞会、马球周和乡村别墅里，“玛米”是一个熟悉的人物。他是个狡猾的丑闻散布者，只要有头衔或百万，他就会用肚子爬行一英里。当我来到伦敦时，我对他的公司进行了业务介绍，他很好地邀请我去他的俱乐部吃晚饭。在那里，他大肆炫耀，喋喋不休地谈论他的公爵夫人，直到这个家伙的势利让我感到恶心。后来我问一个男人为什么没有人踢他，他被告知英国人尊重弱者。

Anyhow there he was now, nattily dressed, in a fine new car, obviously on his way to visit some of his smart friends. A sudden daftness took me, and in a second I had jumped into the tonneau and had him by the shoulder.
不管怎样，他现在就在那里，穿着整齐，开着一辆漂亮的新车，显然是要去拜访他的一些聪明的朋友。我突然感到一阵恍惚，立刻就跳进了酒桶，抓住了他的肩膀。

‘Hullo, jopley,’ I sang out. ‘Well met, my lad!’ He got a horrid fright. His chin dropped as he stared at me. ‘Who the devil are YOU?’ he gasped.
“哈罗，乔普利，”我大声喊道。 “很高兴见到你，我的小伙子！”他吓了一跳。当他凝视着我时，他的下巴垂了下来。 “你到底是谁？”他喘息道。

‘My name’s Hannay,’ I said. ‘From Rhodesia, you remember.’
“我叫汉内，”我说。 “你记得，来自罗德西亚。”

‘Good God, the murderer!’ he choked. ‘Just so. And there’ll be a second murder, my dear, if you don’t do as I tell you. Give me that coat of yours. That cap, too.’
“天哪，凶手！”他哽咽了。 ‘就是这样。亲爱的，如果你不按照我说的去做，将会发生第二起谋杀案。把你的那件外套给我。那顶帽子也是。

He did as bid, for he was blind with terror. Over my dirty trousers and vulgar shirt I put on his smart driving-coat, which buttoned high at the top and thereby hid the deficiencies of my collar. I stuck the cap on my head, and added his gloves to my getup. The dusty roadman in a minute was transformed into one of the neatest motorists in Scotland. On Mr jopley’s head I clapped Turnbull’s unspeakable hat, and told him to keep it there.
他照做了，因为他因恐惧而盲目了。我在肮脏的裤子和粗俗的衬衫外面穿上了他那件漂亮的驾驶外套，这件外套的扣子扣在顶部，从而掩盖了我衣领的缺陷。我把帽子戴在头上，把他的手套戴在我的衣服上。这名尘土飞扬的路工在一分钟内就变成了苏格兰最整洁的驾车者之一。我把特恩布尔那顶难以形容的帽子拍在乔普利先生的头上，并告诉他把它留在那里。

Then with some difficulty I turned the car. My plan was to go back the road he had come, for the watchers, having seen it before, would probably let it pass unremarked, and Marmie’s figure was in no way like mine.
然后我费了好大劲才把车转了过来。我的计划是沿着他来时的路原路返回，因为那些观察者以前见过它，可能会不加注意地让它过去，而且玛米的身材跟我一点也不像。

‘Now, my child,’ I said, ‘sit quite still and be a good boy. I mean you no harm. I’m only borrowing your car for an hour or two. But if you play me any tricks, and above all if you open your mouth, as sure as there’s a God above me I’ll wring your neck. SAVEZ?’
“现在，我的孩子，”我说，“安静地坐着，做一个好孩子。”我的意思是你没有伤害。我只借你的车一两个小时。但如果你对我耍什么把戏，最重要的是，如果你张开嘴，就像我上面有上帝一样，我会扭断你的脖子。保存吗？

I enjoyed that evening’s ride. We ran eight miles down the valley, through a village or two, and I could not help noticing several strange-looking folk lounging by the roadside. These were the watchers who would have had much to say to me if I had come in other garb or company. As it was, they looked incuriously on. One touched his cap in salute, and I responded graciously.
我很享受那天晚上的旅程。我们沿着山谷跑了八英里，穿过一两个村庄，我忍不住注意到路边有几个长相奇怪的人闲逛。如果我穿着其他服装或陪伴而来，这些观察者会对我有很多话要说。事实上，他们只是冷漠地看着。其中一人触碰帽子敬礼，我也礼貌地回应。

As the dark fell I turned up a side glen which, as I remember from the map, led into an unfrequented corner of the hills. Soon the villages were left behind, then the farms, and then even the wayside cottage. Presently we came to a lonely moor where the night was blackening the sunset gleam in the bog pools. Here we stopped, and I obligingly reversed the car and restored to Mr jopley his belongings.
夜幕降临时，我翻过一条侧谷，据我在地图上的记忆，它通向山上一个人迹罕至的角落。很快，村庄就被抛在了身后，然后是农场，甚至是路边的小屋。不久，我们来到了一片偏僻的荒原，那里的夜色使沼泽池中的夕阳光芒变得漆黑。我们在这里停下来，我礼貌地倒车，把他的物品还给乔普利先生。

‘A thousand thanks,’ I said. ‘There’s more use in you than I thought. Now be off and find the police.’
“非常感谢，”我说。 ‘你的用处比我想象的还要大。现在赶紧去找警察吧。”

As I sat on the hillside, watching the tail-light dwindle, I reflected on the various kinds of crime I had now sampled. Contrary to general belief, I was not a murderer, but I had become an unholy liar, a shameless impostor, and a highwayman with a marked taste for expensive motor-cars.
当我坐在山坡上，看着尾灯逐渐变暗时，我反思了我现在所经历的各种犯罪行为。与一般人的看法相反，我不是杀人犯，但我已经成为一个邪恶的骗子、一个无耻的冒名顶替者和一个对昂贵汽车有明显兴趣的拦路强盗。

CHAPTER SIX
第六章

The Adventure of the Bald Archaeologist
秃头考古学家的冒险

I spent the night on a shelf of the hillside, in the lee of a boulder where the heather grew long and soft. It was a cold business, for I had neither coat nor waistcoat. These were in Mr Turnbull’s keeping, as was Scudder’s little book, my watch and worst of all my pipe and tobacco pouch. Only my money accompanied me in my belt, and about half a pound of ginger biscuits in my trousers pocket.
我在山坡的一块岩石背风处过夜，石南花长得又长又软。这是一件很冷门的事，因为我既没有外套，也没有背心。这些东西都在特恩布尔先生的手里，还有斯卡德的小本子、我的手表，还有我最糟糕的烟斗和烟袋。腰带上只有我的钱，裤袋里还有大约半磅的姜饼。

I supped off half those biscuits, and by worming myself deep into the heather got some kind of warmth. My spirits had risen, and I was beginning to enjoy this crazy game of hide-and-seek. So far I had been miraculously lucky. The milkman, the literary innkeeper, Sir Harry, the roadman, and the idiotic Marmie, were all pieces of undeserved good fortune. Somehow the first success gave me a feeling that I was going to pull the thing through.
我吃了一半的饼干，把自己钻进石南丛深处，得到了某种温暖。我的精神振奋起来，我开始享受这种疯狂的捉迷藏游戏。到目前为止，我已经奇迹般地幸运了。送奶工、文学客栈老板、哈利爵士、马路老板和白痴玛米，都是不应得的好运。不知何故，第一次成功给了我一种感觉，我将把事情渡过难关。

My chief trouble was that I was desperately hungry. When a Jew shoots himself in the City and there is an inquest, the newspapers usually report that the deceased was ‘well-nourished’. I remember thinking that they would not call me well-nourished if I broke my neck in a bog-hole. I lay and tortured myself for the ginger biscuits merely emphasized the aching void with the memory of all the good food I had thought so little of in London. There were Paddock’s crisp sausages and fragrant shavings of bacon, and shapely poached eggs how often I had turned up my nose at them! There were the cutlets they did at the club, and a particular ham that stood on the cold table, for which my soul lusted. My thoughts hovered over all varieties of mortal edible, and finally settled on a porterhouse steak and a quart of bitter with a welsh rabbit to follow. In longing hopelessly for these dainties I fell asleep. I woke very cold and stiff about an hour after dawn. It took me a little while to remember where I was, for I had been very weary and had slept heavily. I saw first the pale blue sky through a net of heather, then a big shoulder of hill, and then my own boots placed neatly in a blaeberry bush. I raised myself on my arms and looked down into the valley, and that one look set me lacing up my boots in mad haste. For there were men below, not more than a quarter of a mile off, spaced out on the hillside like a fan, and beating the heather. Marmie had not been slow in looking for his revenge.
我主要的麻烦是我非常饿。当一名犹太人在伦敦城开枪自杀并进行调查时，报纸通常会报道死者“营养良好”。我记得我当时想，如果我在沼泽地里摔断了脖子，他们就不会说我营养良好。我躺在床上折磨自己，因为姜饼干只是强调了我在伦敦时很少想到的所有美食的痛苦空虚。有帕多克的脆香肠和香浓的培根片，还有形状优美的荷包蛋，我曾多次对它们嗤之以鼻！俱乐部里有他们做的炸肉排，冰冷的桌子上还有一根特别的火腿，我的灵魂都渴望得到它们。我的思绪盘旋在各种凡人食品上，最后选定了一份上等腰肉牛排和一夸脱苦酒，然后是一只威尔士兔子。在对这些美味佳肴的无限渴望中，我睡着了。天亮后大约一个小时，我醒来时浑身寒冷、僵硬。我花了一段时间才记起我在哪里，因为我非常疲倦，睡得很沉。我首先看到透过石南花网的淡蓝色天空，然后看到一个大山肩，然后我自己的靴子整齐地放在浆果丛中。我用手臂撑起身子，俯视山谷，这一眼神让我疯狂地匆忙系上靴子。因为下面有一些人，距离不到四分之一英里，在山坡上像一把扇子一样间隔开，敲打着石南花。玛米很快就开始寻求复仇。

I crawled out of my shelf into the cover of a boulder, and from it gained a shallow trench which slanted up the mountain face. This led me presently into the narrow gully of a burn, by way of which I scrambled to the top of the ridge. From there I looked back, and saw that I was still undiscovered. My pursuers were patiently quartering the hillside and moving upwards.
我从架子上爬进一块巨石的盖子里，从里面发现了一条倾斜到山壁上的浅沟。这很快就把我带进了烧伤的狭窄沟壑中，我通过它爬到了山脊顶部。从那里我回头一看，发现我仍然没有被发现。我的追击者耐心地在山坡上扎营，然后向上移动。

Keeping behind the skyline I ran for maybe half a mile, till I judged I was above the uppermost end of the glen. Then I showed myself, and was instantly noted by one of the flankers, who passed the word to the others. I heard cries coming up from below, and saw that the line of search had changed its direction. I pretended to retreat over the skyline, but instead went back the way I had come, and in twenty minutes was behind the ridge overlooking my sleeping place. From that viewpoint I had the satisfaction of seeing the pursuit streaming up the hill at the top of the glen on a hopelessly false scent. I had before me a choice of routes, and I chose a ridge which made an angle with the one I was on, and so would soon put a deep glen between me and my enemies. The exercise had warmed my blood, and I was beginning to enjoy myself amazingly. As I went I breakfasted on the dusty remnants of the ginger biscuits.
我沿着天际线跑了大约半英里，直到我判断自己已经到达了峡谷的最顶端。然后我出现了，立即被一名侧翼队员注意到，他将消息传给了其他人。我听到下面传来呼喊声，发现搜索线已经改变了方向。我假装从地平线上撤退，但实际上却原路返回，二十分钟后就到了山脊后面，俯瞰着我睡觉的地方。从这个角度来看，我很满意地看到追击者带着无可救药的虚假气味涌上峡谷顶部的小山。我面前有一条路线可供选择，我选择了一条与我所在的山脊成一定角度的山脊，这样很快就会在我和敌人之间形成一道深深的峡谷。这项运动温暖了我的血液，我开始享受到令人惊奇的乐趣。我边走边吃着沾满灰尘的姜饼干残渣作为早餐。

I knew very little about the country, and I hadn’t a notion what I was going to do. I trusted to the strength of my legs, but I was well aware that those behind me would be familiar with the lie of the land, and that my ignorance would be a heavy handicap. I saw in front of me a sea of hills, rising very high towards the south, but northwards breaking down into broad ridges which separated wide and shallow dales. The ridge I had chosen seemed to sink after a mile or two to a moor which lay like a pocket in the uplands. That seemed as good a direction to take as any other.
我对这个国家知之甚少，也不知道自己要做什么。我相信自己双腿的力量，但我很清楚，我身后的人会熟悉这片土地的情况，而我的无知将成为一个沉重的障碍。我看到眼前是一片山海，向南升起很高，但向北则分裂成宽阔的山脊，将宽阔而浅的山谷分开。我选择的山脊似乎在一两英里后就下沉到了一片沼泽地里，那片沼泽地就像高地上的一个口袋。这似乎是一个与其他方向一样好的方向。

My stratagem had given me a fair start call it twenty minutes and I had the width of a glen behind me before I saw the first heads of the pursuers. The police had evidently called in local talent to their aid, and the men I could see had the appearance of herds or gamekeepers. They hallooed at the sight of me, and I waved my hand. Two dived into the glen and began to climb my ridge, while the others kept their own side of the hill. I felt as if I were taking part in a schoolboy game of hare and hounds. But very soon it began to seem less of a game. Those fellows behind were hefty men on their native heath. Looking back I saw that only three were following direct, and I guessed that the others had fetched a circuit to cut me off. My lack of local knowledge might very well be my undoing, and I resolved to get out of this tangle of glens to the pocket of moor I had seen from the tops. I must so increase my distance as to get clear away from them, and I believed I could do this if I could find the right ground for it. If there had been cover I would have tried a bit of stalking, but on these bare slopes you could see a fly a mile off. My hope must be in the length of my legs and the soundness of my wind, but I needed easier ground for that, for I was not bred a mountaineer. How I longed for a good Afrikander pony!
我的策略给了我一个公平的开始，称之为二十分钟，在我看到追击者的第一批头之前，我身后有一个峡谷那么宽。警察显然已经召集了当地的人才来帮忙，而我看到的这些人的外表都是牛群或猎场看守人。他们一看到我就大声喊叫，我挥了挥手。其中两个潜入峡谷，开始攀登我的山脊，而其他人则留在山的一侧。我感觉自己好像正在参加一场小学生的野兔和猎犬游戏。但很快它就开始显得不再是一场游戏了。后面的那些家伙都是他们家乡的大块头。回头一看，只有三个人在跟着我，我猜其他人是绕了一圈来拦住我的。我对当地的了解很可能是我的失败，我决定离开这片混乱的峡谷，前往我从山顶看到的沼泽地。我必须拉开距离，远离他们，而且我相信，如果我能找到合适的地面，我就能做到这一点。如果有掩体，我会尝试跟踪一下，但在这些光秃秃的斜坡上，你可以看到一英里外的苍蝇。我的希望必须寄托在我的腿的长度和我的风的稳健性上，但为此我需要更容易的地面，因为我不是登山运动员。我多么渴望拥有一匹好的南非荷兰语小马啊！

I put on a great spurt and got off my ridge and down into the moor before any figures appeared on the skyline behind me. I crossed a burn, and came out on a highroad which made a pass between two glens. All in front of me was a big field of heather sloping up to a crest which was crowned with an odd feather of trees. In the dyke by the roadside was a gate, from which a grassgrown track led over the first wave of the moor.
在我身后的地平线上出现任何人影之前，我猛地冲下山脊，下到荒野中。我穿过一片烧伤地，走上一条穿过两个峡谷的大路。我面前是一大片石南花田，一直延伸到山顶，山顶上长着一根奇怪的树羽。路边的堤坝上有一扇门，从门里有一条长满青草的小路通向沼泽的第一波波浪。

I jumped the dyke and followed it, and after a few hundred yards as soon as it was out of sight of the highway the grass stopped and it became a very respectable road, which was evidently kept with some care. Clearly it ran to a house, and I began to think of doing the same. Hitherto my luck had held, and it might be that my best chance would be found in this remote dwelling. Anyhow there were trees there, and that meant cover.
我跳过堤坝，跟着它走，几百码后，当它离开高速公路的视线时，草就停了，它变成了一条非常受人尊敬的道路，显然是经过精心维护的。显然它跑到了一所房子里，我开始考虑做同样的事情。到目前为止，我的运气一直很好，也许我最好的机会就是在这个偏僻的住所里找到的。无论如何，那里有树，那就意味着有遮蔽物。

I did not follow the road, but the burnside which flanked it on the right, where the bracken grew deep and the high banks made a tolerable screen. It was well I did so, for no sooner had I gained the hollow than, looking back, I saw the pursuit topping the ridge from which I had descended.
我没有沿着路走，而是沿着路右侧的烧边，那里的蕨菜长得很深，高高的河岸形成了一个还算可以接受的屏障。我这样做很好，因为我一到达山谷，回头一看，就看到追击者已经冲上了我下山的山脊。

After that I did not look back; I had no time. I ran up the burnside, crawling over the open places, and for a large part wading in the shallow stream. I found a deserted cottage with a row of phantom peat-stacks and an overgrown garden. Then I was among young hay, and very soon had come to the edge of a plantation of wind-blown firs. From there I saw the chimneys of the house smoking a few hundred yards to my left. I forsook the burnside, crossed another dyke, and almost before I knew was on a rough lawn. A glance back told me that I was well out of sight of the pursuit, which had not yet passed the first lift of the moor.
之后我没有回头；我没有时间。我跑上烧边，爬过空旷的地方，大部分时间都在浅溪里涉水。我发现了一座废弃的小屋，里面有一排幽灵般的泥炭堆和一个杂草丛生的花园。然后我就置身于年轻的干草之中，很快就来到了一片被风吹动的冷杉种植园的边缘。从那里我看到左边几百码处房子的烟囱在冒烟。我离开了烧边，跨过另一条堤坝，几乎在我意识到之前就来到了一片粗糙的草坪上。回头一看，我已经远离了追击者的视线，追击者还没有越过沼泽地的第一道斜坡。

The lawn was a very rough place, cut with a scythe instead of a mower, and planted with beds of scrubby rhododendrons. A brace of black-game, which are not usually garden birds, rose at my approach. The house before me was the ordinary moorland farm, with a more pretentious whitewashed wing added. Attached to this wing was a glass veranda, and through the glass I saw the face of an elderly gentleman meekly watching me. I stalked over the border of coarse hill gravel and entered the open veranda door. Within was a pleasant room, glass on one side, and on the other a mass of books. More books showed in an inner room. On the floor, instead of tables, stood cases such as you see in a museum, filled with coins and queer stone implements.
草坪是一个非常粗糙的地方，用镰刀而不是割草机割草，并种满了灌木丛生的杜鹃花。一群黑色猎物，通常不是花园里的鸟儿，在我走近时出现了。我面前的房子是普通的沼泽农场，加上了一个更自命不凡的粉刷过的侧翼。与这个侧翼相连的是一个玻璃阳台，透过玻璃我看到一位年长绅士的脸温顺地看着我。我大步跨过粗糙的山砾石边界，走进敞开的阳台门。里面是一间令人愉快的房间，一侧是玻璃，另一侧是一堆书。里面的房间里陈列着更多的书。地板上没有桌子，而是放着箱子，就像你在博物馆看到的那样，里面装满了硬币和奇怪的石器。

There was a knee-hole desk in the middle, and seated at it, with some papers and open volumes before him, was the benevolent old gentleman. His face was round and shiny, like Mr Pickwick’s, big glasses were stuck on the end of his nose, and the top of his head was as bright and bare as a glass bottle. He never moved when I entered, but raised his placid eyebrows and waited on me to speak.
中间有一张齐膝的桌子，坐在桌子前的是那位仁慈的老先生，面前放着一些文件和打开的书卷。他的脸又圆又亮，就像匹克威克先生的脸，鼻尖上戴着一副大眼镜，头顶光亮得像个玻璃瓶一样光秃秃的。我进去时他一动不动，只是平静地扬起眉毛，等着我说话。

It was not an easy job, with about five minutes to spare, to tell a stranger who I was and what I wanted, and to win his aid. I did not attempt it. There was something about the eye of the man before me, something so keen and knowledgeable, that I could not find a word. I simply stared at him and stuttered.
这不是一件容易的事，在大约五分钟的时间里，告诉一个陌生人我是谁，我想要什么，并赢得他的帮助。我没有尝试。我面前这个人的眼睛里有一种东西，一种如此敏锐和博学的东西，以至于我找不到一个词来形容。我只是盯着他，结结巴巴地说。

‘You seem in a hurry, my friend,’he said slowly.
“你看起来很匆忙，我的朋友，”他慢慢地说。

I nodded towards the window. It gave a prospect across the moor through a gap in the plantation, and revealed certain figures half a mile off straggling through the heather.
我向窗外点点头。透过种植园的一个缺口，可以看到荒原的另一边，半英里外的石南花丛中隐约可见一些人影。

‘Ah, I see,’ he said, and took up a pair of field-glasses through which he patiently scrutinized the figures.
“啊，我明白了，”他说，然后拿起一副望远镜，耐心地观察着这些数字。

‘A fugitive from justice, eh? Well, we’ll go into the matter at our leisure. Meantime I object to my privacy being broken in upon by the clumsy rural policeman. Go into my study, and you will see two doors facing you. Take the one on the left and close it behind you. You will be perfectly safe.’
“一个逃犯，是吗？好吧，我们闲暇时再讨论这个问题。同时我也反对笨手笨脚的乡村警察侵犯我的隐私。走进我的书房，你会看到两扇门正对着你。拿起左边的那个并将其关在身后。你会非常安全。

And this extraordinary man took up his pen again.
这位非凡的人再次拿起了笔。

I did as I was bid, and found myself in a little dark chamber which smelt of chemicals, and was lit only by a tiny window high up in the wall. The door had swung behind me with a click like the door of a safe. Once again I had found an unexpected sanctuary.
我按照指示做了，发现自己身处一间黑暗的小房间里，里面充满了化学物质的味道，只有墙上高处的一扇小窗户照亮。门在我身后打开，发出喀哒声，就像保险箱的门一样。我再次找到了一个意想不到的避难所。

All the same I was not comfortable. There was something about the old gentleman which puzzled and rather terrified me. He had been too easy and ready, almost as if he had expected me. And his eyes had been horribly intelligent.
尽管如此，我还是不舒服。这位老先生身上有一种让我感到困惑甚至害怕的东西。他太轻松了，也准备好了，就好像他已经预料到了我的到来一样。他的眼睛非常聪明。

No sound came to me in that dark place. For all I knew the police might be searching the house, and if they did they would want to know what was behind this door. I tried to possess my soul in patience, and to forget how hungry I was.
那个黑暗的地方没有任何声音传来。据我所知，警察可能正在搜查这所房子，如果他们这样做，他们会想知道门后面是什么。我试着耐心地控制自己的灵魂，忘记自己有多饿。

Then I took a more cheerful view. The old gentleman could scarcely refuse me a meal, and I fell to reconstructing my breakfast. Bacon and eggs would content me, but I wanted the better part of a flitch of bacon and half a hundred eggs. And then, while my mouth was watering in anticipation, there was a click and the door stood open.
然后我有了更乐观的看法。老先生几乎不能拒绝我吃饭，我开始重新准备我的早餐。培根和鸡蛋足以让我满足，但我想要一块培根​​和半百个鸡蛋的更好部分。然后，当我期待得流口水时，咔哒一声，门打开了。

I emerged into the sunlight to find the master of the house sitting in a deep armchair in the room he called his study, and regarding me with curious eyes.
我出现在阳光下，发现主人坐在他称之为书房的房间里一张深扶手椅上，用好奇的目光看着我。

‘Have they gone?’ I asked. ‘They have gone. I convinced them that you had crossed the hill. I do not choose that the police should come between me and one whom I am delighted to honour. This is a lucky morning for you, Mr Richard Hannay.’
“他们走了吗？”我问。 ‘他们已经走了。我让他们相信你已经翻过了山。我不选择让警察介入我和我很高兴向其致敬的人之间。这对你来说是一个幸运的早晨，理查德·汉内先生。”

As he spoke his eyelids seemed to tremble and to fall a little over his keen grey eyes. In a flash the phrase of Scudder’s came back to me, when he had described the man he most dreaded in the world. He had said that he ‘could hood his eyes like a hawk’. Then I saw that I had walked straight into the enemy’s headquarters.
当他说话时，他的眼睑似乎在颤抖，并在他锐利的灰色眼睛上垂下来。刹那间，我想起了斯卡德描述这个世界上他最害怕的人时所说的话。他曾说过，他“可以像鹰一样蒙住眼睛”。然后我发现我已经径直走进了敌人的指挥部。

My first impulse was to throttle the old ruffian and make for the open air. He seemed to anticipate my intention, for he smiled gently, and nodded to the door behind me.
我的第一反应就是掐死这个老恶棍，逃到户外去。他似乎预料到了我的意图，轻轻地笑了笑，对我身后的门点了点头。

I turned, and saw two men-servants who had me covered with pistols.
我转过身，看到两个男仆用手枪对着我。

He knew my name, but he had never seen me before. And as the reflection darted across my mind I saw a slender chance.
他知道我的名字，但他以前从未见过我。当这个想法闪过我的脑海时，我看到了一个渺茫的机会。

‘I don’t know what you mean,’ I said roughly. ‘And who are you calling Richard Hannay? My name’s Ainslie.’ ‘So?’ he said, still smiling. ‘But of course you have others. We won’t quarrel about a name.’
“我不明白你的意思，”我粗鲁地说。 “你叫理查德·汉内是谁？我叫安斯利。” “所以呢？”他仍然微笑着说道。 “但是当然你还有其他的。我们不会因为名字而争吵。”

I was pulling myself together now, and I reflected that my garb, lacking coat and waistcoat and collar, would at any rate not betray me. I put on my surliest face and shrugged my shoulders.
我现在已经振作起来，我想我的服装，没有外套、马甲和领子，无论如何也不会背叛我。我摆出一副最暴躁的表情，耸了耸肩。

‘I suppose you’re going to give me up after all, and I call it a damned dirty trick. My God, I wish I had never seen that cursed motor-car! Here’s the money and be damned to you,’ and I flung four sovereigns on the table.
“我想你终究会放弃我，我称之为该死的肮脏伎俩。天啊，我希望我从来没有见过那辆该死的汽车！这是钱，见鬼去吧。”然后我把四个金币扔到了桌子上。

He opened his eyes a little. ‘Oh no, I shall not give you up. My friends and I will have a little private settlement with you, that is all. You know a little too much, Mr Hannay. You are a clever actor, but not quite clever enough.’
他稍微睁开了眼睛。 ‘噢，不，我不会放弃你的。我和我的朋友们将与你进行一些私人和解，仅此而已。你知道的有点太多了，汉内先生。你是一个聪明的演员，但还不够聪明。”

He spoke with assurance, but I could see the dawning of a doubt in his mind.
他说得很自信，但我可以看到他心中出现了怀疑。

‘Oh, for God’s sake stop jawing,’ I cried. ‘Everything’s against me. I haven’t had a bit of luck since I came on shore at Leith. What’s the harm in a poor devil with an empty stomach picking up some money he finds in a bust-up motor-car? That’s all I done, and for that I’ve been chivvied for two days by those blasted bobbies over those blasted hills. I tell you I’m fair sick of it. You can do what you like, old boy! Ned Ainslie’s got no fight left in him.’
“哦，看在上帝份上，别再胡言乱语了，”我喊道。 ‘一切都与我作对。自从我来到利斯上岸以来，我就没有一点运气了。一个可怜的家伙空着肚子捡起一辆破烂的汽车里发现的钱有什么害处呢？这就是我所做的一切，为此我已经被那些该死的山丘上的那些该死的鲍勃追赶了两天。我告诉你我已经厌倦了。你可以做你喜欢做的事，老男孩！内德·安斯利已经没有战斗力了。

I could see that the doubt was gaining.
我可以看到人们的怀疑越来越多。

‘Will you oblige me with the story of your recent doings?’he asked. ‘I can’t, guv’nor,’ I said in a real beggar’s whine. ‘I’ve not had a bite to eat for two days. Give me a mouthful of food, and then you’ll hear God’s truth.’
“你能向我讲述一下你最近所做的事情吗？”他问道。 “我不能，大人，”我用一种真正的乞丐的哀嚎说道。 “我已经两天没吃东西了。给我一口食物，然后你就会听到神的真理。

I must have showed my hunger in my face, for he signalled to one of the men in the doorway. A bit of cold pie was brought and a glass of beer, and I wolfed them down like a pig or rather, like Ned Ainslie, for I was keeping up my character. In the middle of my meal he spoke suddenly to me in German, but I turned on him a face as blank as a stone wall.
我一定在脸上表现出了我的饥饿，因为他向门口的一名男子示意。送来了一点冷馅饼和一杯啤酒，我像头猪一样狼吞虎咽地吃下去，或者更确切地说，像内德·安斯利一样，因为我保持了我的性格。吃饭的时候，他突然用德语对我说话，但我转向他，脸上的表情像石墙一样茫然。

Then I told him my story how I had come off an Archangel ship at Leith a week ago, and was making my way overland to my brother at Wigtown. I had run short of cash I hinted vaguely at a spree and I was pretty well on my uppers when I had come on a hole in a hedge, and, looking through, had seen a big motor-car lying in the burn. I had poked about to see what had happened, and had found three sovereigns lying on the seat and one on the floor. There was nobody there or any sign of an owner, so I had pocketed the cash. But somehow the law had got after me. When I had tried to change a sovereign in a baker’s shop, the woman had cried on the police, and a little later, when I was washing my face in a burn, I had been nearly gripped, and had only got away by leaving my coat and waistcoat behind me.
然后我告诉他我的故事，一周前我如何从利斯的一艘大天使号船上下来，然后经陆路去威格敦见我的兄弟。我的现金不够了，我含糊地暗示要大肆狂欢，当我来到树篱上的一个洞时，我的精神状态很好，往里看，看到一辆大汽车躺在烧毁的地方。我伸手去看看发生了什么事，发现座位上躺着三枚金币，地板上躺着一枚。那里没有人，也没有任何主人的迹象，所以我把现金装进口袋了。但不知何故，法律追捕了我。当我试图在一家面包店兑换金币时，那个女人向警察哭诉，过了一会儿，当我在洗烧伤的脸时，我差点被抓住，只有离开我才逃脱。外套和背心在我身后。

‘They can have the money back,’ I cried, ‘for a fat lot of good it’s done me. Those perishers are all down on a poor man. Now, if it had been you, guv’nor, that had found the quids, nobody would have troubled you.’
“他们可以把钱拿回来，”我喊道，“这对我来说有很多好处。”那些灭亡者都对一个穷人感到失望。现在，如果是你，先生，找到了这些钱，那么没有人会打扰你。

‘You’re a good liar, Hannay,’ he said.
“你是个很好的骗子，汉内，”他说。

I flew into a rage. ‘Stop fooling, damn you! I tell you my name’s Ainslie, and I never heard of anyone called Hannay in my born days. I’d sooner have the police than you with your Hannays and your monkey-faced pistol tricks ... No, guv’nor, I beg pardon, I don’t mean that. I’m much obliged to you for the grub, and I’ll thank you to let me go now the coast’s clear.’
我勃然大怒。 ‘别再胡闹了，该死的！我告诉你，我的名字叫安斯利，在我出生的时候，我从未听说过有人叫汉内。我宁愿找警察，也不愿找你的汉内和猴脸手枪把戏……不，长官，请原谅，我不是这个意思。我非常感谢你给我提供的食物，现在海岸已经畅通无阻了，我会感谢你放我走的。”

It was obvious that he was badly puzzled. You see he had never seen me, and my appearance must have altered considerably from my photographs, if he had got one of them. I was pretty smart and well dressed in London, and now I was a regular tramp.
很明显，他感到非常困惑。你看，他从来没有见过我，而且如果他有一张照片的话，我的外表一定与我的照片有很大变化。我在伦敦很聪明，穿着也很考究，现在我成了一名普通的流浪汉。

‘I do not propose to let you go. If you are what you say you are, you will soon have a chance of clearing yourself. If you are what I believe you are, I do not think you will see the light much longer.’
‘我不打算放你走。如果你真是你所说的那样，你很快就会有机会洗清自己的罪名。如果你是我所相信的那样，我认为你不会看到光明太久。

He rang a bell, and a third servant appeared from the veranda.
他按响了门铃，第三个仆人从阳台上出现。

‘I want the Lanchester in five minutes,’ he said. ‘There will be three to luncheon.’
“五分钟后我要兰彻斯特，”他说。 “午餐时将有三个人。”

Then he looked steadily at me, and that was the hardest ordeal of all.
然后他目不转睛地看着我，这是最艰难的考验。

There was something weird and devilish in those eyes, cold, malignant, unearthly, and most hellishly clever. They fascinated me like the bright eyes of a snake. I had a strong impulse to throw myself on his mercy and offer to join his side, and if you consider the way I felt about the whole thing you will see that that impulse must have been purely physical, the weakness of a brain mesmerized and mastered by a stronger spirit. But I managed to stick it out and even to grin.
那双眼睛里有一种怪异而邪恶的东西，冰冷、恶毒、超凡脱俗，却又极其聪明。它们就像蛇明亮的眼睛一样让我着迷。我有一种强烈的冲动，想要投身于他的仁慈之中，并主动提出加入他的阵营，如果你考虑一下我对整件事的感受，你就会发现这种冲动一定是纯粹的身体冲动，是大脑的弱点被催眠和控制的结果。通过更强大的精神。但我还是坚持了下来，甚至还笑了。

‘You’ll know me next time, guv’nor,’ I said.
“下次你就会认识我了，长官，”我说。

‘Karl,’ he spoke in German to one of the men in the doorway, ‘you will put this fellow in the storeroom till I return, and you will be answerable to me for his keeping.’
“卡尔，”他用德语对门口的一个人说道，“你要把这个家伙放在储藏室里，直到我回来，你要负责保管他。”

I was marched out of the room with a pistol at each ear.
我被带出了房间，两只耳朵各各拿着一把手枪。

The storeroom was a damp chamber in what had been the old farmhouse. There was no carpet on the uneven floor, and nothing to sit down on but a school form. It was black as pitch, for the windows were heavily shuttered. I made out by groping that the walls were lined with boxes and barrels and sacks of some heavy stuff. The whole place smelt of mould and disuse. My gaolers turned the key in the door, and I could hear them shifting their feet as they stood on guard outside.
储藏室是旧农舍里的一个潮湿的房间。凹凸不平的地板上没有地毯，除了一张课桌之外，没有什么可以坐下的。窗户关得严严实实，周围漆黑一片。我摸索着发现墙壁上排列着箱子、桶和一袋袋重物。整个地方都散发着霉味和废弃的味道。我的狱卒转动门上的钥匙，我能听到他们在外面站岗时移动脚步的声音。

I sat down in that chilly darkness in a very miserable frame of mind. The old boy had gone off in a motor to collect the two ruffians who had interviewed me yesterday. Now, they had seen me as the roadman, and they would remember me, for I was in the same rig. What was a roadman doing twenty miles from his beat, pursued by the police? A question or two would put them on the track. Probably they had seen Mr Turnbull, probably Marmie too; most likely they could link me up with Sir Harry, and then the whole thing would be crystal clear. What chance had I in this moorland house with three desperadoes and their armed servants?
我坐在寒冷的黑暗里，心情非常悲惨。老男孩开着一辆汽车去接昨天采访我的两个恶棍了。现在，他们把我视为路工，他们会记住我，因为我在同一台车上。一个路人在距离他的巡逻地点二十英里的地方被警察追赶，他在做什么？一两个问题就能让他们走上正轨。也许他们见过特恩布尔先生，也可能见过玛米；也许他们见过特恩布尔先生。他们很可能可以把我和哈利爵士联系起来，然后整个事情就一清二楚了。我有什么机会和三个亡命之徒以及他们的武装仆人一起呆在这间荒野房子里？

I began to think wistfully of the police, now plodding over the hills after my wraith. They at any rate were fellow-countrymen and honest men, and their tender mercies would be kinder than these ghoulish aliens. But they wouldn’t have listened to me. That old devil with the eyelids had not taken long to get rid of them. I thought he probably had some kind of graft with the constabulary. Most likely he had letters from Cabinet Ministers saying he was to be given every facility for plotting against Britain. That’s the sort of owlish way we run our politics in the Old Country.
我开始满怀渴望地想起那些正在追赶我的幽灵的警察们。无论如何，他们都是同胞和诚实的人，他们的温柔怜悯会比这些残忍的外国人更仁慈。但他们不会听我的。那个长着眼皮的老恶魔没多久就将他们除掉了。我认为他可能与警察有某种勾结。他很可能收到内阁部长的来信，称将给予他一切便利来密谋反对英国。这就是我们在祖国管理政治的猫头鹰方式。

The three would be back for lunch, so I hadn’t more than a couple of hours to wait. It was simply waiting on destruction, for I could see no way out of this mess. I wished that I had Scudder’s courage, for I am free to confess I didn’t feel any great fortitude. The only thing that kept me going was that I was pretty furious. It made me boil with rage to think of those three spies getting the pull on me like this. I hoped that at any rate I might be able to twist one of their necks before they downed me.
三人会回来吃午饭，所以我的等待时间不会超过几个小时。它只是在等待毁灭，因为我看不出摆脱这种混乱的出路。我希望我有斯卡德那样的勇气，因为我可以坦白地承认，我并没有感受到任何伟大的毅力。唯一让我坚持下去的就是我非常愤怒。想到那三个间谍如此拉扯我，我就气愤不已。我希望无论如何我能在他们打倒我之前扭断他们的脖子。

The more I thought of it the angrier I grew, and I had to get up and move about the room. I tried the shutters, but they were the kind that lock with a key, and I couldn’t move them. From the outside came the faint clucking of hens in the warm sun. Then I groped among the sacks and boxes. I couldn’t open the latter, and the sacks seemed to be full of things like dog-biscuits that smelt of cinnamon. But, as I circumnavigated the room, I found a handle in the wall which seemed worth investigating.
我越想越生气，不得不站起来在房间里走动。我尝试了百叶窗，但它们是用钥匙锁的那种，我无法移动它们。外面传来温暖阳光下母鸡的微弱咯咯声。然后我在麻袋和盒子之间摸索。我打不开后者，麻袋里似乎装满了狗饼干之类的东西，带着肉桂的味道。但是，当我绕过房间时，我在墙上发现了一个似乎值得研究的把手。

It was the door of a wall cupboard what they call a ‘press’ in Scotland and it was locked. I shook it, and it seemed rather flimsy. For want of something better to do I put out my strength on that door, getting some purchase on the handle by looping my braces round it. Presently the thing gave with a crash which I thought would bring in my warders to inquire. I waited for a bit, and then started to explore the cupboard shelves.
那是一个壁柜的门，在苏格兰他们称之为“压力机”，而且它是锁着的。我摇了摇它，它看起来很脆弱。由于缺乏更好的事情可做，我把我的力量放在那扇门上，用我的支架将我的支架绕在门上，以获取一些东西。不久，那东西发生了碰撞，我想这会引起我的看守的询问。我等了一会儿，然后开始探索橱柜架子。

There was a multitude of queer things there. I found an odd vesta or two in my trouser pockets and struck a light. It was out in a second, but it showed me one thing. There was a little stock of electric torches on one shelf. I picked up one, and found it was in working order.
那里有很多奇怪的事情。我在裤兜里发现了一两颗奇怪的灶神星，然后点了一根火。它一秒钟就出来了，但它向我展示了一件事。一个架子上有少量的手电筒。我拿起一个，发现它可以正常工作。

With the torch to help me I investigated further. There were bottles and cases of queer-smelling stuffs, chemicals no doubt for experiments, and there were coils of fine copper wire and yanks and yanks of thin oiled silk. There was a box of detonators, and a lot of cord for fuses. Then away at the back of the shelf I found a stout brown cardboard box, and inside it a wooden case. I managed to wrench it open, and within lay half a dozen little grey bricks, each a couple of inches square.
在手电筒的帮助下，我进一步调查。有一瓶一箱的奇怪气味的东西，毫无疑问是实验用的化学品，还有一卷细铜线和一卷又一卷的薄油丝。一盒雷管，还有很多引信线。然后在架子后面我发现了一个坚固的棕色纸板箱，里面有一个木箱。我设法把它打开，里面有六块灰色的小砖块，每块都有几英寸见方。

I took up one, and found that it crumbled easily in my hand. Then I smelt it and put my tongue to it. After that I sat down to think. I hadn’t been a mining engineer for nothing, and I knew lentonite when I saw it.
我拿起一个，发现它在我手里很容易就碎了。然后我闻了闻它的味道，把舌头伸到了它上面。之后我坐下来思考。我当采矿工程师并不是白来的，我一看到膨润土就知道它了。

With one of these bricks I could blow the house to smithereens. I had used the stuff in Rhodesia and knew its power. But the trouble was that my knowledge wasn’t exact. I had forgotten the proper charge and the right way of preparing it, and I wasn’t sure about the timing. I had only a vague notion, too, as to its power, for though I had used it I had not handled it with my own fingers.
只要用其中一块砖头，我就能把房子炸成碎片。我在罗德西亚用过这种东西，知道它的威力。但问题是我的知识并不准确。我忘记了正确的充电方式和正确的准备方法，而且我不确定时间。对于它的威力，我也只有一个模糊的概念，因为虽然我使用过它，但我并没有亲手操作过它。

But it was a chance, the only possible chance. It was a mighty risk, but against it was an absolute black certainty. If I used it the odds were, as I reckoned, about five to one in favour of my blowing myself into the tree-tops; but if I didn’t I should very likely be occupying a six-foot hole in the garden by the evening. That was the way I had to look at it. The prospect was pretty dark either way, but anyhow there was a chance, both for myself and for my country.
但这是一个机会，唯一可能的机会。这是一个巨大的风险，但与之相对的是绝对黑色的确定性。据我估计，如果我使用它，我把自己炸到树顶的几率大约是五比一。但如果我不这样做，到晚上我很可能会在花园里占据一个六英尺高的洞。这就是我必须看待它的方式。不管怎样，前景都很暗淡，但无论如何，无论是对我自己还是对我的国家来说，机会都是有的。

The remembrance of little Scudder decided me. It was about the beastliest moment of my life, for I’m no good at these cold-blooded resolutions. Still I managed to rake up the pluck to set my teeth and choke back the horrid doubts that flooded in on me. I simply shut off my mind and pretended I was doing an experiment as simple as Guy Fawkes fireworks.
对小斯卡德的回忆让我下定了决心。这是我一生中最残酷的时刻，因为我不擅长做出这些冷血的决心。尽管如此，我仍然鼓起勇气咬紧牙关，强忍住涌上心头的可怕疑虑。我只是关闭了自己的思维，假装我正在做一个像盖伊·福克斯烟花一样简单的实验。

I got a detonator, and fixed it to a couple of feet of fuse. Then I took a quarter of a lentonite brick, and buried it near the door below one of the sacks in a crack of the floor, fixing the detonator in it. For all I knew half those boxes might be dynamite. If the cupboard held such deadly explosives, why not the boxes? In that case there would be a glorious skyward journey for me and the German servants and about an acre of surrounding country. There was also the risk that the detonation might set off the other bricks in the cupboard, for I had forgotten most that I knew about lentonite. But it didn’t do to begin thinking about the possibilities. The odds were horrible, but I had to take them.
我拿了一个雷管，并将其固定在几英尺长的引信上。然后我拿了四分之一块膨润土砖，把它埋在门附近的一个麻袋下面的地板裂缝里，把雷管固定在里面。据我所知，其中一半的盒子可能是炸药。如果橱柜里装着如此致命的炸药，为什么盒子里没有呢？在这种情况下，我和德国仆人以及周围大约一英亩的土地将有一次辉煌的天空之旅。还有爆炸可能引爆橱柜里其他砖块的风险，因为我已经忘记了我对膨润土的了解。但开始思考可能性并没有用。可能性是可怕的，但我必须接受它们。

I ensconced myself just below the sill of the window, and lit the fuse. Then I waited for a moment or two. There was dead silence only a shuffle of heavy boots in the passage, and the peaceful cluck of hens from the warm out-of-doors. I commended my soul to my Maker, and wondered where I would be in five seconds ...
我躲在窗台下方，点燃了导火索。然后我等了一两分钟。死一般的寂静，只有过道里沉重的靴子拖拉的声音，以及温暖的室外传来的母鸡平静的咯咯声。我向我的创造者赞扬了我的灵魂，并想知道五秒钟后我会在哪里......

A great wave of heat seemed to surge upwards from the floor, and hang for a blistering instant in the air. Then the wall opposite me flashed into a golden yellow and dissolved with a rending thunder that hammered my brain into a pulp. Something dropped on me, catching the point of my left shoulder.
一股巨大的热浪似乎从地板上涌了上来，在空气中停留了一瞬间，让人感到烫手。然后我对面的墙壁突然变成金黄色，并在一声撕裂的雷声中溶解，将我的大脑锤成肉浆。有东西落在我身上，击中了我的左肩。

And then I think I became unconscious.
然后我想我失去了知觉。

My stupor can scarcely have lasted beyond a few seconds. I felt myself being choked by thick yellow fumes, and struggled out of the debris to my feet. Somewhere behind me I felt fresh air. The jambs of the window had fallen, and through the ragged rent the smoke was pouring out to the summer noon. I stepped over the broken lintel, and found myself standing in a yard in a dense and acrid fog. I felt very sick and ill, but I could move my limbs, and I staggered blindly forward away from the house.
我的昏迷状态几乎不会持续超过几秒钟。我感觉自己被浓浓的黄色烟雾窒息了，我挣扎着从废墟中站起来。在我身后的某个地方，我感觉到了新鲜的空气。窗框已经倒塌，烟雾从破破烂烂的缝隙中涌出，直达夏日的正午。我跨过破损的门楣，发现自己站在一个院子里，周围是浓浓的、刺鼻的雾气。我感觉很不舒服，但我的四肢还能活动，我盲目地摇摇晃晃地向前离开了房子。

A small mill-lade ran in a wooden aqueduct at the other side of the yard, and into this I fell. The cool water revived me, and I had just enough wits left to think of escape. I squirmed up the lade among the slippery green slime till I reached the mill-wheel. Then I wriggled through the axle hole into the old mill and tumbled on to a bed of chaff. A nail caught the seat of my trousers, and I left a wisp of heather-mixture behind me.
一个小磨坊里的小伙子从院子另一边的木制渡槽里跑了过来，我就掉进了这个渡槽里。清凉的水让我苏醒过来，我只剩下足够的理智去考虑逃跑了。我在滑溜溜的绿色粘液中蠕动着提桶，直到到达水车前。然后我蠕动着穿过轴孔进入旧磨坊，跌倒在一片谷壳上。一根钉子钉住了我的裤脚，我在身后留下了一缕石南花混合物。

The mill had been long out of use. The ladders were rotten with age, and in the loft the rats had gnawed great holes in the floor. Nausea shook me, and a wheel in my head kept turning, while my left shoulder and arm seemed to be stricken with the palsy. I looked out of the window and saw a fog still hanging over the house and smoke escaping from an upper window. Please God I had set the place on fire, for I could hear confused cries coming from the other side.
磨坊早已闲置多年。梯子因年代久远而腐烂，阁楼上的地板上也被老鼠咬出了大洞。恶心感让我浑身发抖，脑子里的轮子不停地转动，而我的左肩和手臂似乎也瘫痪了。我向窗外望去，看到房子上空仍然笼罩着一层雾气，烟雾从楼上的窗户里冒出来。天哪，我把这个地方放火了，因为我能听到从另一边传来混乱的叫喊声。

But I had no time to linger, since this mill was obviously a bad hiding-place. Anyone looking for me would naturally follow the lade, and I made certain the search would begin as soon as they found that my body was not in the storeroom. From another window I saw that on the far side of the mill stood an old stone dovecot. If I could get there without leaving tracks I might find a hiding-place, for I argued that my enemies, if they thought I could move, would conclude I had made for open country, and would go seeking me on the moor.
但我没有时间逗留，因为这个磨坊显然是一个糟糕的藏身之处。任何寻找我的人自然会跟着这艘船，我确信一旦他们发现我的尸体不在储藏室里，就会立即开始搜查。从另一扇窗户我看到磨坊的另一边立着一座古老的石头鸽舍。如果我能在不留下痕迹的情况下到达那里，我可能会找到一个藏身之处，因为我认为我的敌人，如果他们认为我可以移动，就会断定我已经前往空旷的国家，并会去荒野寻找我。

I crawled down the broken ladder, scattering chaff behind me to cover my footsteps. I did the same on the mill floor, and on the threshold where the door hung on broken hinges. Peeping out, I saw that between me and the dovecot was a piece of bare cobbled ground, where no footmarks would show. Also it was mercifully hid by the mill buildings from any view from the house. I slipped across the space, got to the back of the dovecot and prospected a way of ascent.
我从破损的梯子上爬下来，身后撒下谷壳来掩盖我的脚步。我在工厂地板上和门槛上也做了同样的事情，门挂在破损的铰链上。向外望去，我发现我和鸽舍之间是一块光秃秃的鹅卵石地面，看不到任何脚印。幸运的是，它被工厂建筑遮住了，从房子里看不到任何景色。我溜过空地，来到鸽舍后面，寻找一条上升的路。

That was one of the hardest jobs I ever took on. My shoulder and arm ached like hell, and I was so sick and giddy that I was always on the verge of falling. But I managed it somehow. By the use of out-jutting stones and gaps in the masonry and a tough ivy root I got to the top in the end. There was a little parapet behind which I found space to lie down. Then I proceeded to go off into an old-fashioned swoon.
那是我从事过的最艰难的工作之一。我的肩膀和手臂疼痛难忍，我感到恶心和头晕，总是处于摔倒的边缘。但我以某种方式做到了。通过使用突出的石头和砖石中的间隙以及坚韧的常春藤根，我最终到达了山顶。后面有一个小护栏，我找到了可以躺下的地方。然后我就陷入了一种老式的昏迷状态。

I woke with a burning head and the sun glaring in my face. For a long time I lay motionless, for those horrible fumes seemed to have loosened my joints and dulled my brain. Sounds came to me from the house men speaking throatily and the throbbing of a stationary car. There was a little gap in the parapet to which I wriggled, and from which I had some sort of prospect of the yard. I saw figures come out a servant with his head bound up, and then a younger man in knickerbockers. They were looking for something, and moved towards the mill. Then one of them caught sight of the wisp of cloth on the nail, and cried out to the other. They both went back to the house, and brought two more to look at it. I saw the rotund figure of my late captor, and I thought I made out the man with the lisp. I noticed that all had pistols.
我醒来时头很痛，阳光照在我脸上。我躺了很长一段时间一动不动，因为那些可怕的烟雾似乎让我的关节松弛了，大脑也变得迟钝了。我听到管家们嘶哑的说话声和一辆静止的汽车的轰鸣声。我爬到栏杆上有一个小缺口，从那里我可以看到院子里的景色。我看到几个人影走了出来，一个是裹着头的仆人，然后是一个穿着灯笼裤的年轻人。他们寻找着什么，便朝磨坊走去。这时，其中一个人看到了钉子上的一缕布，就向另一个人喊道。两人回到屋里，又带了两个人去看。我看到了已故俘虏的圆滚滚的身影，我想我认出了那个口齿不清的人。我注意到所有人都有手枪。

For half an hour they ransacked the mill. I could hear them kicking over the barrels and pulling up the rotten planking. Then they came outside, and stood just below the dovecot arguing fiercely. The servant with the bandage was being soundly rated. I heard them fiddling with the door of the dovecote and for one horrid moment I fancied they were coming up. Then they thought better of it, and went back to the house.
他们花了半个小时洗劫了工厂。我能听到他们踢木桶、拉起腐烂的木板的声音。然后他们来到外面，站在鸽舍下面激烈地争吵。缠着绷带的仆人受到了很好的评价。我听到他们摆弄鸽舍的门，有那么一个可怕的时刻，我以为他们正在过来。后来他们想了想，就回屋了。

All that long blistering afternoon I lay baking on the rooftop. Thirst was my chief torment. My tongue was like a stick, and to make it worse I could hear the cool drip of water from the milllade. I watched the course of the little stream as it came in from the moor, and my fancy followed it to the top of the glen, where it must issue from an icy fountain fringed with cool ferns and mosses. I would have given a thousand pounds to plunge my face into that.
整个炎热的下午，我都躺在屋顶上烘烤。口渴是我的主要折磨。我的舌头就像一根棍子，更糟糕的是，我能听到水从磨坊里滴下来的清凉声音。我注视着那条小溪从荒野流淌而来，我的想象随着它来到了峡谷的顶部，那里一定是从一个冰冷的喷泉中流出，喷泉周围长满了凉爽的蕨类植物和苔藓。我愿意付出一千英镑来让我的脸投入其中。

I had a fine prospect of the whole ring of moorland. I saw the car speed away with two occupants, and a man on a hill pony riding east. I judged they were looking for me, and I wished them joy of their quest.
我对整个荒原环抱有很好的看法。我看到汽车飞驰而去，车上载着两名乘客，还有一名男子骑着一匹小马向东行驶。我判断他们正在寻找我，我祝愿他们寻找快乐。

But I saw something else more interesting. The house stood almost on the summit of a swell of moorland which crowned a sort of plateau, and there was no higher point nearer than the big hills six miles off. The actual summit, as I have mentioned, was a biggish clump of trees firs mostly, with a few ashes and beeches. On the dovecot I was almost on a level with the tree-tops, and could see what lay beyond. The wood was not solid, but only a ring, and inside was an oval of green turf, for all the world like a big cricket-field.
但我看到了其他更有趣的东西。这座房子几乎矗立在一片荒原的山顶上，荒原上有一片高原，六英里外的大山附近没有更高的地方。正如我所提到的，实际的山顶主要是一大丛冷杉，还有一些灰树和山毛榉。在鸽舍上，我几乎与树顶齐平，可以看到远处的情况。木头不是实心的，只是一个圆环，里面是椭圆形的绿色草皮，完全就像一个大板球场。

I didn’t take long to guess what it was. It was an aerodrome, and a secret one. The place had been most cunningly chosen. For suppose anyone were watching an aeroplane descending here, he would think it had gone over the hill beyond the trees. As the place was on the top of a rise in the midst of a big amphitheatre, any observer from any direction would conclude it had passed out of view behind the hill. Only a man very close at hand would realize that the aeroplane had not gone over but had descended in the midst of the wood. An observer with a telescope on one of the higher hills might have discovered the truth, but only herds went there, and herds do not carry spy-glasses. When I looked from the dovecot I could see far away a blue line which I knew was the sea, and I grew furious to think that our enemies had this secret conning-tower to rake our waterways.
我没花太长时间就猜到那是什么。这是一个机场，而且是一个秘密机场。这个地方选择得非常巧妙。因为假设有人在这里观看一架飞机降落，他会认为飞机已经飞过树林之外的山丘。由于这个地方位于一个大圆形剧场中间的一个高地的顶部，任何方向的任何观察者都会得出结论，它已经消失在山后面的视野中了。只有离得很近的人才能意识到飞机并没有飞过去，而是降落在树林中间。一个在较高的山上用望远镜观察的人可能会发现真相，但只有牛群去那里，而牛群不携带望远镜。当我从鸽舍望去时，我可以看到远处有一条蓝线，我知道那是大海，一想到我们的敌人拥有这座秘密指挥塔来掠夺我们的水道，我就感到愤怒。

Then I reflected that if that aeroplane came back the chances were ten to one that I would be discovered. So through the afternoon I lay and prayed for the coming of darkness, and glad I was when the sun went down over the big western hills and the twilight haze crept over the moor. The aeroplane was late. The gloaming was far advanced when I heard the beat of wings and saw it volplaning downward to its home in the wood. Lights twinkled for a bit and there was much coming and going from the house. Then the dark fell, and silence.
然后我想到，如果那架飞机回来，我被发现的机会是十比一。于是整个下午，我躺着祈祷黑暗的到来，当太阳从西边的大山上落下、暮色的薄雾笼罩着沼泽时，我感到很高兴。飞机晚点了。当我听到翅膀的拍打声并看到它向下飞向树林中的家时，暮色已经很深了。灯光闪烁了一会儿，房子里来来往往的人很多。然后夜幕降临，一片寂静。

Thank God it was a black night. The moon was well on its last quarter and would not rise till late. My thirst was too great to allow me to tarry, so about nine o’clock, so far as I could judge, I started to descend. It wasn’t easy, and half-way down I heard the back door of the house open, and saw the gleam of a lantern against the mill wall. For some agonizing minutes I hung by the ivy and prayed that whoever it was would not come round by the dovecot. Then the light disappeared, and I dropped as softly as I could on to the hard soil of the yard.
感谢上帝，那是一个漆黑的夜晚。月亮刚刚上弦，要到很晚才会升起。我太渴了，无法停留，所以据我判断，大约九点钟，我开始下撤。这并不容易，半路上我听到房子后门打开的声音，看到磨坊墙上有一盏灯笼闪闪发光。在痛苦的几分钟里，我挂在常春藤旁，祈祷无论是谁都不要从鸽舍旁过来。然后光线消失了，我尽可能轻柔地落在院子里坚硬的土壤上。

I crawled on my belly in the lee of a stone dyke till I reached the fringe of trees which surrounded the house. If I had known how to do it I would have tried to put that aeroplane out of action, but I realized that any attempt would probably be futile. I was pretty certain that there would be some kind of defence round the house, so I went through the wood on hands and knees, feeling carefully every inch before me. It was as well, for presently I came on a wire about two feet from the ground. If I had tripped over that, it would doubtless have rung some bell in the house and I would have been captured.
我在石堤的背风处匍匐前进，直到到达房子周围的树林边缘。如果我知道该怎么做，我会尝试让那架飞机停止运行，但我意识到任何尝试都可能是徒劳的。我非常确定房子周围会有某种防御，所以我用手和膝盖穿过树林，仔细地感受着我面前的每一寸。也还好，因为不久之后我就来到了距离地面约两英尺的一根电线上。如果我被它绊倒，毫无疑问，房子里的某个铃声就会响起，我就会被抓住。

A hundred yards farther on I found another wire cunningly placed on the edge of a small stream. Beyond that lay the moor, and in five minutes I was deep in bracken and heather. Soon I was round the shoulder of the rise, in the little glen from which the mill-lade flowed. Ten minutes later my face was in the spring, and I was soaking down pints of the blessed water. But I did not stop till I had put half a dozen miles between me and that accursed dwelling.
再往前一百码，我发现另一根电线巧妙地放置在一条小溪的边缘。再往前就是沼泽地，五分钟后我就深入到了蕨菜和石南丛中。很快我就绕过了山肩，来到了磨车水源源不断流淌的小峡谷里。十分钟后，我的脸沐浴在泉水中，我正在浸泡一品脱的祝福之水。但直到我和那座该死的住所相距六英里后，我才停下来。

CHAPTER SEVEN
第七章

The Dry-Fly Fisherman
干蝇渔夫

I sat down on a hill-top and took stock of my position. I wasn’t feeling very happy, for my natural thankfulness at my escape was clouded by my severe bodily discomfort. Those lentonite fumes had fairly poisoned me, and the baking hours on the dovecot hadn’t helped matters. I had a crushing headache, and felt as sick as a cat. Also my shoulder was in a bad way. At first I thought it was only a bruise, but it seemed to be swelling, and I had no use of my left arm.
我坐在山顶上评估我的位置。我感觉不太高兴，因为我对逃脱的自然感激之情被我严重的身体不适所掩盖。那些膨润土烟雾相当毒害了我，而鸽舍上的烘烤时间也无济于事。我头痛欲裂，感觉像只猫一样难受。我的肩膀也不好。起初我以为只是瘀伤，但似乎正在肿胀，而且我的左臂已经无法使用了。

My plan was to seek Mr Turnbull’s cottage, recover my garments, and especially Scudder’s note-book, and then make for the main line and get back to the south. It seemed to me that the sooner I got in touch with the Foreign Office man, Sir Walter Bullivant, the better. I didn’t see how I could get more proof than I had got already. He must just take or leave my story, and anyway, with him I would be in better hands than those devilish Germans. I had begun to feel quite kindly towards the British police.
我的计划是寻找特恩布尔先生的小屋，找回我的衣服，特别是斯卡德的笔记本，然后沿着主线返回南方。在我看来，我越早与外交部官员沃尔特·布利万特爵士取得联系越好。我不知道怎样才能得到比我已经得到的更多的证据。他必须接受或离开我的故事，无论如何，和他在一起我会比那些邪恶的德国人更好。我开始对英国警察产生好感。

It was a wonderful starry night, and I had not much difficulty about the road. Sir Harry’s map had given me the lie of the land, and all I had to do was to steer a point or two west of south-west to come to the stream where I had met the roadman. In all these travels I never knew the names of the places, but I believe this stream was no less than the upper waters of the river Tweed. I calculated I must be about eighteen miles distant, and that meant I could not get there before morning. So I must lie up a day somewhere, for I was too outrageous a figure to be seen in the sunlight. I had neither coat, waistcoat, collar, nor hat, my trousers were badly torn, and my face and hands were black with the explosion. I daresay I had other beauties, for my eyes felt as if they were furiously bloodshot. Altogether I was no spectacle for God-fearing citizens to see on a highroad.
那是一个美妙的星夜，我的路并没有遇到什么困难。哈利爵士的地图告诉了我这片土地的位置，我所要做的就是向西南偏西行驶一两点，来到我遇见路工的那条小溪。在所有这些旅行中，我从来不知道这些地方的名字，但我相信这条溪流不亚于特威德河的上游水域。我算了一下，距离大约有十八英里，这意味着我无法在早上之前到达那里。所以我必须在某个地方躺一天，因为我的身材太离谱了，在阳光下很难被人看到。我的外套、马甲、领子、帽子都没有，裤子被严重撕破，脸和手都被炸得黑黑的。我敢说我还有其他的美人，因为我的眼睛感觉好像充满了疯狂的血丝。总而言之，我并不是敬畏上帝的公民在公路上看到的奇观。

Very soon after daybreak I made an attempt to clean myself in a hill burn, and then approached a herd’s cottage, for I was feeling the need of food. The herd was away from home, and his wife was alone, with no neighbour for five miles. She was a decent old body, and a plucky one, for though she got a fright when she saw me, she had an axe handy, and would have used it on any evil-doer. I told her that I had had a fall I didn’t say how and she saw by my looks that I was pretty sick. Like a true Samaritan she asked no questions, but gave me a bowl of milk with a dash of whisky in it, and let me sit for a little by her kitchen fire. She would have bathed my shoulder, but it ached so badly that I would not let her touch it.
天亮后不久，我试图在山上烧伤的地方清理自己，然后走近牛群的小屋，因为我感到需要食物。牛群离开了家，他的妻子孤身一人，方圆五英里都没有邻居。她的身体很老，而且很勇敢，虽然她看到我时吓了一跳，但她手边有一把斧子，任何作恶的人都会用它。我告诉她我摔倒了，但没有说是怎么摔倒的，她从我的表情看出我病得很厉害。就像一个真正的撒玛利亚人一样，她没有问任何问题，而是给了我一碗加了少许威士忌的牛奶，并让我在厨房的火旁坐了一会儿。她本想给我的肩膀洗澡，但我的肩膀太疼了，我不让她碰。

I don’t know what she took me for a repentant burglar, perhaps; for when I wanted to pay her for the milk and tendered a sovereign which was the smallest coin I had, she shook her head and said something about ‘giving it to them that had a right to it’. At this I protested so strongly that I think she believed me honest, for she took the money and gave me a warm new plaid for it, and an old hat of her man’s. She showed me how to wrap the plaid around my shoulders, and when I left that cottage I was the living image of the kind of Scotsman you see in the illustrations to Burns’s poems. But at any rate I was more or less clad.
也许我不知道她为什么把我当成一个悔过自新的窃贼。因为当我想付钱给她牛奶并给了我一枚英镑（这是我拥有的最小的硬币）时，她摇摇头并说了一些“把它给那些有权获得它的人”之类的话。我对此提出了强烈的抗议，以至于我认为她相信我是诚实的，因为她拿了钱，给了我一顶温暖的新格子花呢，还有一顶她男人的旧帽子。她教我如何将格子布裹在肩膀上，当我离开那间小屋时，我就是你在伯恩斯诗歌插图中看到的那种苏格兰人的活生生的形象。但无论如何，我或多或少都穿了衣服。

It was as well, for the weather changed before midday to a thick drizzle of rain. I found shelter below an overhanging rock in the crook of a burn, where a drift of dead brackens made a tolerable bed. There I managed to sleep till nightfall, waking very cramped and wretched, with my shoulder gnawing like a toothache. I ate the oatcake and cheese the old wife had given me and set out again just before the darkening.
也还好，中午之前天气就变了，下起了倾盆大雨。我在烧伤处的一块悬垂岩石下找到了庇护所，那里有一堆枯死的蕨类植物，可以作为一个还算可以的床。我在那里睡到了夜幕降临，醒来时感到浑身抽筋、痛苦不堪，肩膀像牙痛一样疼痛。我吃了老妻给我的燕麦饼和奶酪，在天黑之前再次出发。

I pass over the miseries of that night among the wet hills. There were no stars to steer by, and I had to do the best I could from my memory of the map. Twice I lost my way, and I had some nasty falls into peat-bogs. I had only about ten miles to go as the crow flies, but my mistakes made it nearer twenty. The last bit was completed with set teeth and a very light and dizzy head. But I managed it, and in the early dawn I was knocking at Mr Turnbull’s door. The mist lay close and thick, and from the cottage I could not see the highroad.
我在潮湿的山间经历了那天晚上的痛苦。没有星星可以指引方向，我必须根据地图的记忆尽我所能。我有两次迷路，还摔进了泥炭沼泽。直线距离我只剩下十英里左右，但我的失误让距离已经接近二十英里了。最后一点是在牙齿整齐、头部非常轻盈、头晕的情况下完成的。但我做到了，黎明时分，我敲了特恩布尔先生的门。雾气密密麻麻，从小屋里看不到公路。

Mr Turnbull himself opened to me sober and something more than sober. He was primly dressed in an ancient but well-tended suit of black; he had been shaved not later than the night before; he wore a linen collar; and in his left hand he carried a pocket Bible. At first he did not recognize me.
特恩布尔先生本人向我敞开心扉，他是清醒的，而且比清醒还要清醒。他穿着一套古老但保养得当的黑色西装，端庄得体。他最晚在前一天晚上才刮胡子。他穿着亚麻领子；他的左手拿着一本袖珍圣经。起初他没有认出我。

‘Whae are ye that comes stravaigin’ here on the Sabbath mornin’?’ he asked.
“安息日早上来这里苦苦挣扎的人是谁？”他问道。

I had lost all count of the days. So the Sabbath was the reason for this strange decorum.
我已经记不清有多少天了。所以安息日就是这种奇怪礼节的原因。

My head was swimming so wildly that I could not frame a coherent answer. But he recognized me, and he saw that I was ill.
我的头脑一片混乱，无法给出一个连贯的答案。但他认出了我，并且看出我病了。

‘Hae ye got my specs?’ he asked.
“你们拿到我的规格了吗？”他问道。

I fetched them out of my trouser pocket and gave him them.
我从裤兜里拿出来递给他。

‘Ye’ll hae come for your jaicket and westcoat,’ he said. ‘Come inbye. Losh, man, ye’re terrible dune i’ the legs. Haud up till I get ye to a chair.’
“你们会来拿外套和西衣的，”他说。 ‘来吧再见。天哪，伙计，你的腿沙丘太可怕了。起来吧，等我把你扶到椅子上为止。

I perceived I was in for a bout of malaria. I had a good deal of fever in my bones, and the wet night had brought it out, while my shoulder and the effects of the fumes combined to make me feel pretty bad. Before I knew, Mr Turnbull was helping me off with my clothes, and putting me to bed in one of the two cupboards that lined the kitchen walls.
我意识到我正患上疟疾。我的骨头里发烧得很厉害，潮湿的夜晚把它带了出来，而我的肩膀和烟雾的影响让我感觉很糟糕。在我意识到之前，特恩布尔先生已经帮我脱掉衣服，然后把我放在厨房墙壁上的两个橱柜之一的床上。

He was a true friend in need, that old roadman. His wife was dead years ago, and since his daughter’s marriage he lived alone.
那位老路夫，是一位真正的危难之友。他的妻子多年前就去世了，自从女儿结婚后，他就独自生活。

For the better part of ten days he did all the rough nursing I needed. I simply wanted to be left in peace while the fever took its course, and when my skin was cool again I found that the bout had more or less cured my shoulder. But it was a baddish go, and though I was out of bed in five days, it took me some time to get my legs again.
在十天的大部分时间里，他做了我需要的所有粗略护理。我只是想在发烧退去的同时保持安静，当我的皮肤再次凉爽时，我发现这场发作或多或少治愈了我的肩膀。但这是一次糟糕的经历，尽管我五天后就可以下床活动，但我还是花了一些时间才恢复双腿。

He went out each morning, leaving me milk for the day, and locking the door behind him; and came in in the evening to sit silent in the chimney corner. Not a soul came near the place. When I was getting better, he never bothered me with a question. Several times he fetched me a two days’ old SCOTSMAN, and I noticed that the interest in the Portland Place murder seemed to have died down. There was no mention of it, and I could find very little about anything except a thing called the General Assembly some ecclesiastical spree, I gathered.
他每天早上出门，给我留下当天的牛奶，然后锁上门。晚上进来，坐在烟囱的角落里，一言不发。没有人靠近这个地方。当我病情好转时，他再也不会问我问题了。有几次他给我带来了两天前的苏格兰人，我注意到对波特兰广场谋杀案的兴趣似乎已经消失了。没有提到它，我发现除了一个叫做大会的东西，一些教会的狂欢之外，我找不到任何东西。

One day he produced my belt from a lockfast drawer. ‘There’s a terrible heap o’ siller in’t,’ he said. ‘Ye’d better coont it to see it’s a’ there.’
有一天，他从一个带锁的抽屉里拿出了我的皮带。 “里面有一堆可怕的杀手，”他说。 “你最好算一下，看看那里有一个‘’。”

He never even sought my name. I asked him if anybody had been around making inquiries subsequent to my spell at the road-making.
他甚至从未询问过我的名字。我问他在我修路之后是否有人来询问。

‘Ay, there was a man in a motor-cawr. He speired whae had ta’en my place that day, and I let on I thocht him daft. But he keepit on at me, and syne I said he maun be thinkin’ o’ my gude-brither frae the Cleuch that whiles lent me a haun’. He was a wersh-lookin’ sowl, and I couldna understand the half o’ his English tongue.’
“哎呀，有一个人开着一辆汽车。他泄露了那天谁占据了我的位置，而我则表现出我认为他愚蠢。但他一直对我不屑一顾，我说他一定是在想我的好兄弟，那个曾借给我一个快乐的克鲁赫。他是一只长得像威尔士人的母猪，我听不懂他的一半英语。

I was getting restless those last days, and as soon as I felt myself fit I decided to be off. That was not till the twelfth day of June, and as luck would have it a drover went past that morning taking some cattle to Moffat. He was a man named Hislop, a friend of Turnbull’s, and he came in to his breakfast with us and offered to take me with him.
最后几天我变得焦躁不安，一旦我感觉自己健康了，我就决定离开。直到六月十二日，幸运的是，那天早上有一个赶牛人经过，把一些牛运到莫法特。他名叫希斯洛普，是特恩布尔的朋友，他和我们一起吃早餐，并主动提出带我一起去。

I made Turnbull accept five pounds for my lodging, and a hard job I had of it. There never was a more independent being. He grew positively rude when I pressed him, and shy and red, and took the money at last without a thank you. When I told him how much I owed him, he grunted something about ‘ae guid turn deservin’ anither’. You would have thought from our leave-taking that we had parted in disgust.
我让特恩布尔接受五英镑的住宿费，而且我的工作很辛苦。从来没有比这更独立的存在了。当我催促他时，他变得非常粗鲁，害羞，脸红，最后没有感谢就拿走了钱。当我告诉他我欠他多少钱时，他咕哝着“ae guidturn deservin” another”之类的话。从我们的告别中你可能会认为我们是在厌恶中分手的。

Hislop was a cheery soul, who chattered all the way over the pass and down the sunny vale of Annan. I talked of Galloway markets and sheep prices, and he made up his mind I was a ‘pack-shepherd’ from those parts whatever that may be. My plaid and my old hat, as I have said, gave me a fine theatrical Scots look. But driving cattle is a mortally slow job, and we took the better part of the day to cover a dozen miles.
希斯洛普是一个性格开朗的人，他一路喋喋不休地越过山口，来到阳光明媚的安南山谷。我谈到了加洛韦市场和绵羊价格，他决定我是来自那些地方的“牧羊人”，无论那是什么地方。正如我所说，我的格子呢格子和我的旧帽子给了我一种漂亮的苏格兰戏剧外观。但赶牛是一项极其缓慢的工作，我们花了一天的大部分时间才走了十几英里。

If I had not had such an anxious heart I would have enjoyed that time. It was shining blue weather, with a constantly changing prospect of brown hills and far green meadows, and a continual sound of larks and curlews and falling streams. But I had no mind for the summer, and little for Hislop’s conversation, for as the fateful fifteenth of June drew near I was overweighed with the hopeless difficulties of my enterprise.
如果我没有一颗焦虑的心，我会很享受那段时光。天气蔚蓝，棕色的山丘和远方绿色的草地不断变化，百灵鸟、麻鹬和飞流直下的溪流不断发出声音。但我对夏天没有兴趣，对希斯洛普的谈话也没什么兴趣，因为随着决定性的六月十五日的临近，我对我的事业中无望的困难感到沉重。

I got some dinner in a humble Moffat public-house, and walked the two miles to the junction on the main line. The night express for the south was not due till near midnight, and to fill up the time I went up on the hillside and fell asleep, for the walk had tired me. I all but slept too long, and had to run to the station and catch the train with two minutes to spare. The feel of the hard third-class cushions and the smell of stale tobacco cheered me up wonderfully. At any rate, I felt now that I was getting to grips with my job.
我在莫法特一家简陋的酒馆吃了晚饭，然后步行两英里到达主线的交叉路口。开往南方的夜快车要到午夜才到，为了填补这段时间，我爬到山坡上睡着了，因为走路已经累了。我几乎睡得太久了，不得不跑到车站去赶火车，还有两分钟的时间。三等舱硬垫的感觉和陈旧烟草的味道让我精神振奋。无论如何，我现在感觉我正在认真对待我的工作。

I was decanted at Crewe in the small hours and had to wait till six to get a train for Birmingham. In the afternoon I got to Reading, and changed into a local train which journeyed into the deeps of Berkshire. Presently I was in a land of lush water-meadows and slow reedy streams. About eight o’clock in the evening, a weary and travel-stained being a cross between a farm-labourer and a vet with a checked black-and-white plaid over his arm (for I did not dare to wear it south of the Border), descended at the little station of Artinswell. There were several people on the platform, and I thought I had better wait to ask my way till I was clear of the place.
凌晨时分，我在克鲁被解职，不得不等到六点才能搭乘开往伯明翰的火车。下午到达雷丁，换乘当地火车，驶入伯克郡深处。不久我就来到了一片有茂盛水草和缓慢芦苇溪流的土地。晚上八点左右，一个疲惫不堪、饱经风霜的人，既是农场工人又是兽医，手臂上戴着一块格子黑白格子呢（因为我不敢在南边穿它）。边境），在阿廷斯韦尔（Artinswell）小站下车。站台上有几个人，我想最好等我离开这个地方后再问路。

The road led through a wood of great beeches and then into a shallow valley, with the green backs of downs peeping over the distant trees. After Scotland the air smelt heavy and flat, but infinitely sweet, for the limes and chestnuts and lilac bushes were domes of blossom. Presently I came to a bridge, below which a clear slow stream flowed between snowy beds of water-buttercups. A little above it was a mill; and the lasher made a pleasant cool sound in the scented dusk. Somehow the place soothed me and put me at my ease. I fell to whistling as I looked into the green depths, and the tune which came to my lips was ‘Annie Laurie’.
这条路穿过一片高大的山毛榉树林，然后进入一个浅山谷，绿色的丘陵背影从远处的树林中隐约可见。离开苏格兰后，空气中弥漫着沉重而平淡的味道，但又无限甜美，因为酸橙、栗子和丁香丛都开满了花朵。不久，我来到一座桥前，桥下有一条清澈缓慢的小溪从水毛茛的雪床间流过。上面不远的地方有一座磨坊。鞭子在芳香的黄昏中发出令人愉悦的清凉声音。不知怎的，这个地方让我平静下来，让我放松下来。当我看着绿色的深处时，我开始吹口哨，我唇边响起的曲子是《安妮·劳里》。

A fisherman came up from the waterside, and as he neared me he too began to whistle. The tune was infectious, for he followed my suit. He was a huge man in untidy old flannels and a wide-brimmed hat, with a canvas bag slung on his shoulder. He nodded to me, and I thought I had never seen a shrewder or better-tempered face. He leaned his delicate ten-foot split-cane rod against the bridge, and looked with me at the water.
一个渔夫从水边上来，当他靠近我时，他也开始吹口哨。这首曲子很有感染力，因为他跟着我学。他身材高大，穿着凌乱的旧法兰绒衣服，戴着一顶宽边帽子，肩上挎着一个帆布包。他向我点点头，我想我从未见过比他更精明、脾气更好的面孔。他将他精致的十英尺长的分叉手杖靠在桥上，和我一起看着水面。

‘Clear, isn’t it?’ he said pleasantly. ‘I back our Kenner any day against the Test. Look at that big fellow. Four pounds if he’s an ounce. But the evening rise is over and you can’t tempt ‘em.’
“很清楚，不是吗？”他愉快地说。 “我在任何一天都支持我们的肯纳反对测试。看看那个大家伙。如果他是一盎司的话，就是四磅。但晚起已经结束，你无法诱惑他们。

‘I don’t see him,’ said I.
“我没有看到他，”我说。

‘Look! There! A yard from the reeds just above that stickle.’
'看！那里！距离那根棍子上方的芦苇丛一码远。

‘I’ve got him now. You might swear he was a black stone.’
‘我现在已经抓住他了。你可能会发誓他是一块黑石头。

‘So,’ he said, and whistled another bar of ‘Annie Laurie’.
“所以，”他说着，又吹了一首《安妮·劳里》。

‘Twisdon’s the name, isn’t it?’ he said over his shoulder, his eyes still fixed on the stream.
“这就是特维斯登的名字，不是吗？”他回头说道，眼睛仍然盯着溪流。

‘No,’ I said. ‘I mean to say, Yes.’ I had forgotten all about my alias.
“不，”我说。 “我的意思是，是的。”我已经忘记了我的化名。

‘It’s a wise conspirator that knows his own name,’ he observed, grinning broadly at a moor-hen that emerged from the bridge’s shadow.
“这是一个知道自己名字的聪明阴谋家，”他评论道，对着从桥的阴影中出现的一只沼泽母鸡咧嘴一笑。

I stood up and looked at him, at the square, cleft jaw and broad, lined brow and the firm folds of cheek, and began to think that here at last was an ally worth having. His whimsical blue eyes seemed to go very deep.
我站起来，看着他，看着他那方形的、有裂痕的下巴、宽阔、有皱纹的眉毛，还有脸颊上坚实的褶皱，我开始觉得，这里终于是一个值得拥有的盟友了。他那双异想天开的蓝眼睛似乎很深邃。

Suddenly he frowned. ‘I call it disgraceful,’ he said, raising his voice. ‘Disgraceful that an able-bodied man like you should dare to beg. You can get a meal from my kitchen, but you’ll get no money from me.’
突然他皱起了眉头。 “我认为这是可耻的，”他提高了声音说道。 ‘像你这样身强力壮的人，竟然敢乞讨，真是丢脸。你可以从我的厨房得到一顿饭，但你不会从我这里得到钱。

A dog-cart was passing, driven by a young man who raised his whip to salute the fisherman. When he had gone, he picked up his rod.
一辆马车驶过，一个年轻人驾驶着马车，举起鞭子向渔夫行礼。当他走后，他拿起了他的棍子。

‘That’s my house,’ he said, pointing to a white gate a hundred yards on. ‘Wait five minutes and then go round to the back door.’ And with that he left me.
“那是我的房子，”他指着一百码外的一扇白色大门说道。 “等五分钟，然后绕到后门。”说完他就离开了我。

I did as I was bidden. I found a pretty cottage with a lawn running down to the stream, and a perfect jungle of guelder-rose and lilac flanking the path. The back door stood open, and a grave butler was awaiting me.
我按照吩咐做了。我发现了一座漂亮的小屋，里面有一片一直延伸到小溪的草坪，小路两侧有一片完美的琼花和丁香丛林。后门开着，一位严肃的管家正在等我。

‘Come this way, Sir,’ he said, and he led me along a passage and up a back staircase to a pleasant bedroom looking towards the river. There I found a complete outfit laid out for me dress clothes with all the fixings, a brown flannel suit, shirts, collars, ties, shaving things and hair-brushes, even a pair of patent shoes. ‘Sir Walter thought as how Mr Reggie’s things would fit you, Sir,’ said the butler. ‘He keeps some clothes ‘ere, for he comes regular on the week-ends. There’s a bathroom next door, and I’ve prepared a ‘ot bath. Dinner in ‘alf an hour, Sir. You’ll ‘ear the gong.’
“请这边走，先生。”他说，然后领着我沿着一条通道走上后楼梯，来到一间面向河流的宜人卧室。在那里我找到了一套为我准备的全套服装，包括所有配件、一套棕色法兰绒西装、衬衫、领子、领带、剃须用品和发刷，甚至还有一双漆皮鞋。 “沃尔特爵士认为雷吉先生的东西很适合您，先生，”管家说。 “他在这里留了一些衣服，因为他周末会定期来。隔壁有浴室，我准备了一个‘ot’浴缸。半小时后吃晚饭，先生。你会“听到锣声”。

The grave being withdrew, and I sat down in a chintz-covered easy-chair and gaped. It was like a pantomime, to come suddenly out of beggardom into this orderly comfort. Obviously Sir Walter believed in me, though why he did I could not guess. I looked at myself in the mirror and saw a wild, haggard brown fellow, with a fortnight’s ragged beard, and dust in ears and eyes, collarless, vulgarly shirted, with shapeless old tweed clothes and boots that had not been cleaned for the better part of a month. I made a fine tramp and a fair drover; and here I was ushered by a prim butler into this temple of gracious ease. And the best of it was that they did not even know my name.
坟墓被撤了，我坐在一张铺着印花棉布的安乐椅上，目瞪口呆。突然从乞讨中走出来，进入这种井然有序的舒适之中，就像一场哑剧。显然沃尔特爵士相信我，尽管我无法猜测他为什么这么做。我看着镜子里的自己，看到一个狂野、憔悴的棕色人，留着两周来的胡须，耳朵和眼睛里满是灰尘，无领，衬衫粗俗，穿着不成形的旧粗花呢衣服和大部分没有清洗过的靴子。一个月。我是一个优秀的流浪汉和一个优秀的牲畜贩子；在这里，一位拘谨的管家把我带进了这座优雅安逸的殿堂。最棒的是他们甚至不知道我的名字。

I resolved not to puzzle my head but to take the gifts the gods had provided. I shaved and bathed luxuriously, and got into the dress clothes and clean crackling shirt, which fitted me not so badly. By the time I had finished the looking-glass showed a not unpersonable young man.
我决定不再迷惑自己的头脑，而是接受众神赐予的礼物。我刮了胡子，洗了个澡，穿上了礼服和干净、有裂纹的衬衫，这对我来说还算合身。当我看完的时候，镜子里出现了一个不失风度的年轻人。

Sir Walter awaited me in a dusky dining-room where a little round table was lit with silver candles. The sight of him so respectable and established and secure, the embodiment of law and government and all the conventions took me aback and made me feel an interloper. He couldn’t know the truth about me, or he wouldn’t treat me like this. I simply could not accept his hospitality on false pretences.
沃尔特爵士在一间昏暗的餐厅里等我，那里有一张小圆桌，点着银色的蜡烛。看到他如此受人尊敬、既稳固又安全，他是法律、政府和所有惯例的化身，让我大吃一惊，让我觉得自己是一个闯入者。他不可能知道我的真相，否则他不会这样对待我。我实在无法接受他以虚假借口的盛情款待。

‘I’m more obliged to you than I can say, but I’m bound to make things clear,’ I said. ‘I’m an innocent man, but I’m wanted by the police. I’ve got to tell you this, and I won’t be surprised if you kick me out.’
“我对你的感激之情难以言表，但我必须把事情说清楚，”我说。 “我是一个无辜的人，但我被警察通缉了。我必须告诉你这一点，如果你把我赶出去，我不会感到惊讶。

He smiled. ‘That’s all right. Don’t let that interfere with your appetite. We can talk about these things after dinner.’ I never ate a meal with greater relish, for I had had nothing all day but railway sandwiches. Sir Walter did me proud, for we drank a good champagne and had some uncommon fine port afterwards. it made me almost hysterical to be sitting there, waited on by a footman and a sleek butler, and remember that I had been living for three weeks like a brigand, with every man’s hand against me. I told Sir Walter about tiger-fish in the Zambesi that bite off your fingers if you give them a chance, and we discussed sport up and down the globe, for he had hunted a bit in his day.
他笑了。 '没关系。不要让它影响你的食欲。我们可以在晚饭后讨论这些事情。”我从来没有吃过比这更津津有味的饭菜，因为我一整天除了铁路三明治什么也没吃。沃尔特爵士让我感到自豪，因为我们喝了一杯上好的香槟，之后还喝了一些不寻常的优质波特酒。坐在那里，由一名男仆和一名时髦的管家伺候，让我几乎歇斯底里，回想起我已经像强盗一样生活了三个星期，每个人都对我下手。我告诉沃尔特爵士，赞比西河的虎鱼一旦有机会就会咬掉你的手指，我们讨论了全球各地的体育运动，因为他当时也打猎过。

We went to his study for coffee, a jolly room full of books and trophies and untidiness and comfort. I made up my mind that if ever I got rid of this business and had a house of my own, I would create just such a room. Then when the coffee-cups were cleared away, and we had got our cigars alight, my host swung his long legs over the side of his chair and bade me get started with my yarn.
我们去他的书房喝咖啡，这是一个充满书籍和奖杯的快乐房间，凌乱而舒适。我下定决心，如果我摆脱了这个生意并拥有了自己的房子，我就会建造一个这样的房间。然后，当咖啡杯被清理干净，我们也点着了雪茄时，我的主人将他的长腿摆到了椅子的一侧，吩咐我开始讲我的故事。

‘I’ve obeyed Harry’s instructions,’ he said, ‘and the bribe he offered me was that you would tell me something to wake me up. I’m ready, Mr Hannay.’
“我听从了哈利的指示，”他说，“他给我的贿赂是让你告诉我一些事情来叫醒我。”我准备好了，汉内先生。

I noticed with a start that he called me by my proper name.
我吃了一惊，注意到他用我的真名来称呼我。

I began at the very beginning. I told of my boredom in London, and the night I had come back to find Scudder gibbering on my doorstep. I told him all Scudder had told me about Karolides and the Foreign Office conference, and that made him purse his lips and grin.
我从头开始。我讲述了我在伦敦的无聊时光，以及那天晚上我回来时发现斯卡德在我家门口胡言乱语。我告诉他斯卡德告诉我的关于卡罗利德斯和外交部会议的一切，这让他抿起嘴笑了。

Then I got to the murder, and he grew solemn again. He heard all about the milkman and my time in Galloway, and my deciphering Scudder’s notes at the inn.
然后我谈到谋杀案，他又变得严肃起来。他听说了关于送奶工和我在加洛韦的时光，以及我在旅馆破译斯卡德笔记的一切。

‘You’ve got them here?’ he asked sharply, and drew a long breath when I whipped the little book from my pocket.
“你把它们放在这儿了吗？”他尖锐地问道，当我从口袋里掏出那本小书时，他长长地吸了一口气。

I said nothing of the contents. Then I described my meeting with Sir Harry, and the speeches at the hall. At that he laughed uproariously.
我对内容只字未提。然后我描述了我与哈里爵士的会面，以及在大厅里的演讲。说到这里，他哈哈大笑起来。

‘Harry talked dashed nonsense, did he? I quite believe it. He’s as good a chap as ever breathed, but his idiot of an uncle has stuffed his head with maggots. Go on, Mr Hannay.’
“哈利胡言乱语，是吗？我非常相信。他是个一如既往的好小伙子，但他的白痴叔叔却在他的头上塞满了蛆虫。继续吧，汉内先生。”

My day as roadman excited him a bit. He made me describe the two fellows in the car very closely, and seemed to be raking back in his memory. He grew merry again when he heard of the fate of that ass jopley.
我当路工的一天让他有点兴奋。他让我非常仔细地描述车里的两个人，似乎是在回忆他的记忆。当他听说那个混蛋乔普利的命运时，他又高兴起来。

But the old man in the moorland house solemnized him. Again I had to describe every detail of his appearance.
但沼泽地房子里的老人却向他庄严地举行了仪式。我再次必须描述他外表的每一个细节。

‘Bland and bald-headed and hooded his eyes like a bird ... He sounds a sinister wild-fowl! And you dynamited his hermitage, after he had saved you from the police. Spirited piece of work, that!’ Presently I reached the end of my wanderings. He got up slowly, and looked down at me from the hearth-rug.
“平淡无奇，秃头，像鸟一样遮住眼睛……他听起来像一只险恶的野禽！”在他从警察手中救出你之后，你又炸毁了他的隐居所。充满活力的作品，那！’不久我就到达了我的漫游的终点。他慢慢地站起来，从壁炉边的地毯上低头看着我。

‘You may dismiss the police from your mind,’ he said. ‘You’re in no danger from the law of this land.’
“你可以把警察从你的脑海中抹去，”他说。 “你不会受到这片土地法律的威胁。”

‘Great Scot!’ I cried. ‘Have they got the murderer?’
“伟大的苏格兰人！”我喊道。 “他们找到凶手了吗？”

‘No. But for the last fortnight they have dropped you from the list of possibles.’
'不。但在过去的两周里，他们已经把你从可能的名单中删除了。”

‘Why?’ I asked in amazement.
“为什么？”我惊讶地问道。

‘Principally because I received a letter from Scudder. I knew something of the man, and he did several jobs for me. He was half crank, half genius, but he was wholly honest. The trouble about him was his partiality for playing a lone hand. That made him pretty well useless in any Secret Service a pity, for he had uncommon gifts. I think he was the bravest man in the world, for he was always shivering with fright, and yet nothing would choke him off. I had a letter from him on the 31st of May.’
“主要是因为我收到了斯卡德的一封信。我对这个人有所了解，他为我做过几份工作。他一半是疯子，一半是天才，但他却非常诚实。他的问题在于他偏爱单打独斗。遗憾的是，这使得他在任何特勤局中都毫无用处，因为他有不寻常的天赋。我认为他是世界上最勇敢的人，因为他总是吓得浑身发抖，但没有什么能阻止他。 5 月 31 日我收到了他的一封信。

‘But he had been dead a week by then.’
“但那时他已经死了一个星期了。”

‘The letter was written and posted on the 23rd. He evidently did not anticipate an immediate decease. His communications usually took a week to reach me, for they were sent under cover to Spain and then to Newcastle. He had a mania, you know, for concealing his tracks.’
“这封信是23日写的并寄出的。他显然没有预料到会立即死亡。他的通讯通常需要一周时间才能到达我手中，因为它们被秘密发送到西班牙，然后再发送到纽卡斯尔。你知道，他有一种隐藏自己行踪的狂热。”

‘What did he say?’ I stammered.
“他说什么？”我结结巴巴地说。

‘Nothing. Merely that he was in danger, but had found shelter with a good friend, and that I would hear from him before the 15th of June. He gave me no address, but said he was living near Portland Place. I think his object was to clear you if anything happened. When I got it I went to Scotland Yard, went over the details of the inquest, and concluded that you were the friend. We made inquiries about you, Mr Hannay, and found you were respectable. I thought I knew the motives for your disappearance not only the police, the other one too and when I got Harry’s scrawl I guessed at the rest. I have been expecting you any time this past week.’ You can imagine what a load this took off my mind. I felt a free man once more, for I was now up against my country’s enemies only, and not my country’s law.
'没有什么。只是说他处于危险之中，但在一位好朋友那里找到了庇护所，而且我会在 6 月 15 日之前收到他的消息。他没有给我地址，但说他住在波特兰广场附近。我认为他的目的是在发生任何事情时清除你的罪名。当我拿到它后，我去了苏格兰场，详细了解了调查的细节，并得出结论，你就是那个朋友。汉内先生，我们询问了您的情况，发现您很受人尊敬。我以为我不仅知道警察失踪的动机，还知道另一个人失踪的动机，当我看到哈利潦草的字迹时，我猜到了其余的事情。过去一周我一直在等你。”你可以想象，这减轻了我多少负担。我再次感到自己是一个自由人，因为我现在面对的只是祖国的敌人，而不是祖国的法律。

‘Now let us have the little note-book,’ said Sir Walter.
“现在让我们拿着小笔记本，”沃尔特爵士说。

It took us a good hour to work through it. I explained the cypher, and he was jolly quick at picking it up. He emended my reading of it on several points, but I had been fairly correct, on the whole. His face was very grave before he had finished, and he sat silent for a while.
我们花了一个小时才完成它。我解释了密码，他很快就明白了。他在几个方面修改了我的解读，但总的来说，我是相当正确的。话还没说完，他的脸色就很凝重，沉默了一会儿。

‘I don’t know what to make of it,’ he said at last. ‘He is right about one thing what is going to happen the day after tomorrow. How the devil can it have got known? That is ugly enough in itself. But all this about war and the Black Stone it reads like some wild melodrama. If only I had more confidence in Scudder’s judgement. The trouble about him was that he was too romantic. He had the artistic temperament, and wanted a story to be better than God meant it to be. He had a lot of odd biases, too. Jews, for example, made him see red. Jews and the high finance.
“我不知道该怎么办，”他最后说道。 “他对后天将要发生的一件事是正确的。这事怎么会被人知道呢？这本身就够丑陋的了。但所有这些关于战争和黑石的故事读起来就像一部狂野的情节剧。如果我对斯卡德的判断更有信心就好了。他的问题在于他太浪漫了。他具有艺术气质，希望故事比上帝想象的更好。他也有很多奇怪的偏见。例如，犹太人让他看到红色。犹太人和高级金融。

‘The Black Stone,’ he repeated. ‘DER SCHWARZE STEIN. It’s like a penny novelette. And all this stuff about Karolides. That is the weak part of the tale, for I happen to know that the virtuous Karolides is likely to outlast us both. There is no State in Europe that wants him gone. Besides, he has just been playing up to Berlin and Vienna and giving my Chief some uneasy moments. No! Scudder has gone off the track there. Frankly, Hannay, I don’t believe that part of his story. There’s some nasty business afoot, and he found out too much and lost his life over it. But I am ready to take my oath that it is ordinary spy work. A certain great European Power makes a hobby of her spy system, and her methods are not too particular. Since she pays by piecework her blackguards are not likely to stick at a murder or two. They want our naval dispositions for their collection at the Marineamt; but they will be pigeon-holed nothing more.’ just then the butler entered the room.
“黑石，”他重复道。 ‘DER SCHWARZE STEIN’。这就像一本便士中篇小说。还有所有关于卡罗利德斯的事情。这是这个故事的弱点，因为我碰巧知道，善良的卡罗利德斯很可能比我们俩都活得更久。欧洲没有任何国家希望他离开。此外，他刚刚在柏林和维也纳表演，给我的酋长带来了一些不安的时刻。不！斯卡德尔在那里偏离了轨道。坦白说，汉内，我不相信他的故事的那一部分。有一些令人讨厌的事情正在发生，他发现了太多，并因此失去了生命。但我准备宣誓，这是普通的间谍工作。欧洲某个大国对她的间谍系统很感兴趣，而且她的手段并不算太讲究。由于她按件计酬，她的恶棍不太可能坚持谋杀一两起谋杀案。他们希望在海军陆战队收集我们的海军部署；但他们只会被归类。” 就在这时，管家走进了房间。

‘There’s a trunk-call from London, Sir Walter. It’s Mr ‘Eath, and he wants to speak to you personally.’
“沃尔特爵士，有从伦敦打来的长途电话。我是‘Eath’先生，他想亲自和你谈谈。”

My host went off to the telephone.
我的主人去接电话了。

He returned in five minutes with a whitish face. ‘I apologize to the shade of Scudder,’ he said. ‘Karolides was shot dead this evening at a few minutes after seven.’
五分钟后他回来了，脸色惨白。 “我向斯卡德的影子道歉，”他说。 “卡罗里德斯今晚七点过几分钟被枪杀。”

CHAPTER EIGHT
第八章

The Coming of the Black Stone
黑石的到来

I came down to breakfast next morning, after eight hours of blessed dreamless sleep, to find Sir Walter decoding a telegram in the midst of muffins and marmalade. His fresh rosiness of yesterday seemed a thought tarnished.
经过八个小时无梦的幸福睡眠后，第二天早上我下楼吃早餐，发现沃尔特爵士正在松饼和果酱中破译一封电报。他昨天的新鲜玫瑰色似乎已经失去了光泽。

‘I had a busy hour on the telephone after you went to bed,’ he said. ‘I got my Chief to speak to the First Lord and the Secretary for War, and they are bringing Royer over a day sooner. This wire clinches it. He will be in London at five. Odd that the code word for a SOUS-CHEF D/ETAT MAJOR-GENERAL should be ‘Porker”.’
“你上床睡觉后，我在电话里忙了一个小时，”他说。 “我让我的酋长与第一勋爵和战争部长交谈，他们会提前一天将罗耶带过来。这根线把它固定住了。他将于五点到达伦敦。奇怪的是，副主厨 D/ETAT 少将的代号应该是“猪肉”。

He directed me to the hot dishes and went on.
他带我去吃热菜，然后继续说道。

‘Not that I think it will do much good. If your friends were clever enough to find out the first arrangement they are clever enough to discover the change. I would give my head to know where the leak is. We believed there were only five men in England who knew about Royer’s visit, and you may be certain there were fewer in France, for they manage these things better there.’
“我并不认为这会有多大好处。如果你的朋友足够聪明，能够找出第一个安排，那么他们也足够聪明，能够发现变化。我会用我的头去知道泄漏在哪里。我们相信英国只有五个人知道罗耶的来访，你可以肯定法国的人更少，因为他们在那里处理这些事情更好。

While I ate he continued to talk, making me to my surprise a present of his full confidence.
当我吃饭的时候，他继续说话，令我惊讶的是，他表现出了十足的自信。

‘Can the dispositions not be changed?’ I asked.
“性格不能改变吗？”我问。

‘They could,’ he said. ‘But we want to avoid that if possible. They are the result of immense thought, and no alteration would be as good. Besides, on one or two points change is simply impossible. Still, something could be done, I suppose, if it were absolutely necessary. But you see the difficulty, Hannay. Our enemies are not going to be such fools as to pick Royer’s pocket or any childish game like that. They know that would mean a row and put us on our guard. Their aim is to get the details without any one of us knowing, so that Royer will go back to Paris in the belief that the whole business is still deadly secret. If they can’t do that they fail, for, once we suspect, they know that the whole thing must be altered.’
“他们可以，”他说。 “但如果可能的话，我们希望避免这种情况。它们是深思熟虑的结果，没有任何改变会更好。何况，一两点的改变根本就是不可能的。不过，我想，如果绝对必要的话，还是可以做点什么的。但你也看到了困难，汉内。我们的敌人不会傻到扒罗耶的口袋或进行任何类似的幼稚游戏。他们知道这意味着一场争吵，让我们保持警惕。他们的目的是在我们任何人都不知道的情况下获取细节，以便罗耶回到巴黎时相信整个事情仍然是致命的秘密。如果他们做不到这一点，他们就失败了，因为一旦我们怀疑，他们就知道整个事情必须改变。

‘Then we must stick by the Frenchman’s side till he is home again,’ I said. ‘If they thought they could get the information in Paris they would try there. It means that they have some deep scheme on foot in London which they reckon is going to win out.’
“那么我们必须站在法国人一边，直到他再次回家，”我说。 “如果他们认为可以在巴黎获得信息，他们就会去那里尝试。这意味着他们在伦敦有一些深入的计划，他们认为这个计划将会获胜。

‘Royer dines with my Chief, and then comes to my house where four people will see him Whittaker from the Admiralty, myself, Sir Arthur Drew, and General Winstanley. The First Lord is ill, and has gone to Sheringham. At my house he will get a certain document from Whittaker, and after that he will be motored to Portsmouth where a destroyer will take him to Havre. His journey is too important for the ordinary boat-train. He will never be left unattended for a moment till he is safe on French soil. The same with Whittaker till he meets Royer. That is the best we can do, and it’s hard to see how there can be any miscarriage. But I don’t mind admitting that I’m horribly nervous. This murder of Karolides will play the deuce in the chancelleries of Europe.’
“罗耶和我的首长一起吃饭，然后来到我家，有四个人会见他，来自海军部的惠特克、我本人、阿瑟·德鲁爵士和温斯坦利将军。第一勋爵病了，已经去了谢林汉姆。在我家，他将从惠特克那里得到一份特定的文件，之后他将被送往朴茨茅斯，在那里一艘驱逐舰将把他带到阿弗尔。他的旅程对于普通的火车船来说太重要了。在他安全抵达法国领土之前，他一刻也不会无人看管。惠特克也是如此，直到他遇到了罗耶。这是我们能做的最好的事情，而且很难看出怎么会有流产。但我不介意承认我非常紧张。卡罗利德斯的谋杀案将在欧洲各国总理府中发挥平手作用。

After breakfast he asked me if I could drive a car. ‘Well, you’ll be my chauffeur today and wear Hudson’s rig. You’re about his size. You have a hand in this business and we are taking no risks. There are desperate men against us, who will not respect the country retreat of an overworked official.’
早餐后，他问我是否可以开车。 “好吧，今天你将成为我的司机，并穿着哈德森的装备。你的体型和他差不多。您参与了这项业务，我们不承担任何风险。有一些绝望的人反对我们，他们不会尊重一位劳累过度的官员在乡村的撤退。”

When I first came to London I had bought a car and amused myself with running about the south of England, so I knew something of the geography. I took Sir Walter to town by the Bath Road and made good going. It was a soft breathless June morning, with a promise of sultriness later, but it was delicious enough swinging through the little towns with their freshly watered streets, and past the summer gardens of the Thames valley. I landed Sir Walter at his house in Queen Anne’s Gate punctually by half-past eleven. The butler was coming up by train with the luggage.
当我第一次来伦敦时，我买了一辆车，并以在英格兰南部跑步为乐，所以我对地理有所了解。我带沃尔特爵士沿着巴斯路进城，一路顺利。那是六月的一个柔和的、让人喘不过气来的早晨，接下来的天气肯定会很闷热，但穿过小镇的街道和泰晤士河谷的夏日花园，已经足够美味了。十一点半，我准时将沃尔特爵士送到了他位于安妮女王门的家。管家带着行李乘火车过来。

The first thing he did was to take me round to Scotland Yard. There we saw a prim gentleman, with a clean-shaven, lawyer’s face.
他做的第一件事就是带我去苏格兰场。在那里，我们看到了一位拘谨的绅士，胡子刮得干干净净，一副律师的面孔。

‘I’ve brought you the Portland Place murderer,’ was Sir Walter’s introduction.
“我给你带来了波特兰广场凶手，”沃尔特爵士介绍道。

The reply was a wry smile. ‘It would have been a welcome present, Bullivant. This, I presume, is Mr Richard Hannay, who for some days greatly interested my department.’
回答是苦笑。 “这将是一份受欢迎的礼物，布利文特。我猜这位就是理查德·汉内先生，几天来我的部门对他非常感兴趣。

‘Mr Hannay will interest it again. He has much to tell you, but not today. For certain grave reasons his tale must wait for four hours. Then, I can promise you, you will be entertained and possibly edified. I want you to assure Mr Hannay that he will suffer no further inconvenience.’
“汉内先生会再次对此感兴趣的。”他有很多话要告诉你，但不是今天。由于某些严重的原因，他的故事必须等待四个小时。然后，我可以向你保证，你会得到娱乐，并且可能会受到启发。我希望你向汉内先生保证，他不会再遭受任何不便。

This assurance was promptly given. ‘You can take up your life where you left off,’ I was told. ‘Your flat, which probably you no longer wish to occupy, is waiting for you, and your man is still there. As you were never publicly accused, we considered that there was no need of a public exculpation. But on that, of course, you must please yourself.’
这一保证很快就得到了。有人告诉我，“你可以从中断的地方重新开始你的生活”。 “你的公寓，可能你不想再住了，正在等你，而你的男人还在那里。”由于您从未受到公开指控，我们认为没有必要公开开脱。但在这方面，当然，你必须取悦你自己。

‘We may want your assistance later on, MacGillivray,’ Sir Walter said as we left.
“我们稍后可能需要你的帮助，麦吉利夫雷，”沃尔特爵士在我们离开时说道。

Then he turned me loose.
然后他放开了我。

‘Come and see me tomorrow, Hannay. I needn’t tell you to keep deadly quiet. If I were you I would go to bed, for you must have considerable arrears of sleep to overtake. You had better lie low, for if one of your Black Stone friends saw you there might be trouble.’
“明天来看我，汉内。我不需要告诉你保持绝对的安静。如果我是你，我就会上床睡觉，因为你一定有相当长的睡眠时间要过去。你最好保持低调，因为如果你的黑石朋友看到你，可能会有麻烦。

I felt curiously at a loose end. At first it was very pleasant to be a free man, able to go where I wanted without fearing anything. I had only been a month under the ban of the law, and it was quite enough for me. I went to the Savoy and ordered very carefully a very good luncheon, and then smoked the best cigar the house could provide. But I was still feeling nervous. When I saw anybody look at me in the lounge, I grew shy, and wondered if they were thinking about the murder.
我好奇地感到无所事事。起初，成为一个自由人是非常愉快的，可以去我想去的地方而不用担心任何事情。我只被法律禁止了一个月，这对我来说已经足够了。我去了萨沃伊酒店，非常仔细地订了一顿非常美味的午餐，然后抽了酒店能提供的最好的雪茄。但我仍然感到紧张。当我在休息室里看到有人看着我时，我变得害羞，想知道他们是否在考虑谋杀案。

After that I took a taxi and drove miles away up into North London. I walked back through fields and lines of villas and terraces and then slums and mean streets, and it took me pretty nearly two hours. All the while my restlessness was growing worse. I felt that great things, tremendous things, were happening or about to happen, and I, who was the cog-wheel of the whole business, was out of it. Royer would be landing at Dover, Sir Walter would be making plans with the few people in England who were in the secret, and somewhere in the darkness the Black Stone would be working. I felt the sense of danger and impending calamity, and I had the curious feeling, too, that I alone could avert it, alone could grapple with it. But I was out of the game now. How could it be otherwise? It was not likely that Cabinet Ministers and Admiralty Lords and Generals would admit me to their councils.
之后，我乘坐出租车，驱车数英里外前往北伦敦。我往回走，穿过田野、一排排别墅和露台，然后是贫民窟和简陋的街道，我花了将近两个小时。与此同时，我的不安越来越严重。我觉得伟大的事情、巨大的事情正在发生或即将发生，而我，作为整个行业的齿轮，却被排除在外。罗耶将在多佛登陆，沃尔特爵士将与英格兰的少数秘密人员制定计划，而黑石将在黑暗中的某个地方发挥作用。我感觉到危险和灾难即将来临，同时我也有一种奇怪的感觉，觉得只有我才能避免它，只有我才能应对它。但我现在已经退出游戏了。不然怎么可能呢？内阁部长、海军上将们不太可能接纳我加入他们的议会。

I actually began to wish that I could run up against one of my three enemies. That would lead to developments. I felt that I wanted enormously to have a vulgar scrap with those gentry, where I could hit out and flatten something. I was rapidly getting into a very bad temper.
我实际上开始希望我能遇到我的三个敌人之一。这将导致事态的发展。我觉得我非常想和那些绅士们进行一场粗俗的争吵，在那里我可以击打并压平一些东西。我的脾气很快就变得很坏。

I didn’t feel like going back to my flat. That had to be faced some time, but as I still had sufficient money I thought I would put it off till next morning, and go to a hotel for the night.
我不想回到我的公寓。这个问题必须要面对一段时间，但由于我还有足够的钱，我想我应该推迟到第二天早上，然后去旅馆过夜。

My irritation lasted through dinner, which I had at a restaurant in Jermyn Street. I was no longer hungry, and let several courses pass untasted. I drank the best part of a bottle of Burgundy, but it did nothing to cheer me. An abominable restlessness had taken possession of me. Here was I, a very ordinary fellow, with no particular brains, and yet I was convinced that somehow I was needed to help this business through that without me it would all go to blazes. I told myself it was sheer silly conceit, that four or five of the cleverest people living, with all the might of the British Empire at their back, had the job in hand. Yet I couldn’t be convinced. It seemed as if a voice kept speaking in my ear, telling me to be up and doing, or I would never sleep again.
我的恼怒一直持续到我在杰明街的一家餐馆吃的晚餐。我不再饿了，并没有品尝几道菜。我喝掉了一瓶勃艮第最好的葡萄酒，但这并没有让我高兴起来。一种令人厌恶的不安占据了我的心。我是一个非常普通的人，没有什么特别的头脑，但我确信，无论如何，我需要帮助这个企业渡过难关，如果没有我，这一切都会付诸东流。我告诉自己，这纯粹是愚蠢的自负，四五个最聪明的人在大英帝国的全部力量的支持下掌握了这份工作。但我还是无法相信。好像有一个声音一直在我耳边说话，告诉我要起床做事，否则我就再也睡不着了。

The upshot was that about half-past nine I made up my mind to go to Queen Anne’s Gate. Very likely I would not be admitted, but it would ease my conscience to try.
结果是，九点半左右，我决定去安妮女王之门。我很可能不会被录取，但尝试一下会让我的良心放心。

I walked down Jermyn Street, and at the corner of Duke Street passed a group of young men. They were in evening dress, had been dining somewhere, and were going on to a music-hall. One of them was Mr Marmaduke jopley.
我沿着杰明街走，在杜克街的拐角处经过一群年轻人。他们穿着晚礼服，正在某处用餐，正要去音乐厅。其中之一是马默杜克·乔普利先生。

He saw me and stopped short.
他看到了我，突然停了下来。

‘By God, the murderer!’ he cried. ‘Here, you fellows, hold him! That’s Hannay, the man who did the Portland Place murder!’ He gripped me by the arm, and the others crowded round. I wasn’t looking for any trouble, but my ill-temper made me play the fool. A policeman came up, and I should have told him the truth, and, if he didn’t believe it, demanded to be taken to Scotland Yard, or for that matter to the nearest police station. But a delay at that moment seemed to me unendurable, and the sight of Marmie’s imbecile face was more than I could bear. I let out with my left, and had the satisfaction of seeing him measure his length in the gutter.
“上帝啊，凶手！”他喊道。 ‘来，你们这些家伙，抓住他！那是汉内，波特兰广场谋杀案的凶手！”他抓住我的手臂，其他人围了过来。我并不是想找麻烦，但我的坏脾气让我装傻了。一名警察出现了，我应该告诉他真相，如果他不相信，就要求被带到苏格兰场，或者就此事带到最近的警察局。但那一刻的拖延对我来说似乎难以忍受，而看到玛米那张愚蠢的脸更是让我无法忍受。我用左手出去，很满意地看到他在排水沟里测量了自己的长度。

Then began an unholy row. They were all on me at once, and the policeman took me in the rear. I got in one or two good blows, for I think, with fair play, I could have licked the lot of them, but the policeman pinned me behind, and one of them got his fingers on my throat.
然后开始了一场邪恶的争吵。他们同时向我扑来，警察从后面抓住了我。我挨了一两下好拳，因为我想，如果公平竞争的话，我本可以把他们中的很多人都舔干净，但警察把我按在后面，其中一个人用手指掐住了我的喉咙。

Through a black cloud of rage I heard the officer of the law asking what was the matter, and Marmie, between his broken teeth, declaring that I was Hannay the murderer.
在愤怒的乌云中，我听到执法官问出了什么事，而玛米则咬着破碎的牙齿，宣布我就是凶手汉内。

‘Oh, damn it all,’ I cried, ‘make the fellow shut up. I advise you to leave me alone, constable. Scotland Yard knows all about me, and you’ll get a proper wigging if you interfere with me.’
“哦，该死的，”我喊道，“让这家伙闭嘴。”我建议你别打扰我，警官。苏格兰场知道我的一切，如果你干涉我，你就会得到适当的假发。

‘You’ve got to come along of me, young man,’ said the policeman. ‘I saw you strike that gentleman crool ‘ard. You began it too, for he wasn’t doing nothing. I seen you. Best go quietly or I’ll have to fix you up.’
“你必须跟我走，年轻人，”警察说。 “我看到你对那位绅士进行了攻击。”你也开始了，因为他什么也没做。我看见你了。最好安静地走，否则我就得收拾你了。”

Exasperation and an overwhelming sense that at no cost must I delay gave me the strength of a bull elephant. I fairly wrenched the constable off his feet, floored the man who was gripping my collar, and set off at my best pace down Duke Street. I heard a whistle being blown, and the rush of men behind me.
愤怒和一种压倒性的感觉，即我必须不惜一切代价拖延，给了我一头公象的力量。我狠狠地把警察从脚上拽下来，把抓着我衣领的人摔倒在地，然后以我最好的速度沿着杜克街出发。我听到一声哨子吹响，身后有人冲过来。

I have a very fair turn of speed, and that night I had wings. In a jiffy I was in Pall Mall and had turned down towards St James’s Park. I dodged the policeman at the Palace gates, dived through a press of carriages at the entrance to the Mall, and was making for the bridge before my pursuers had crossed the roadway. In the open ways of the Park I put on a spurt. Happily there were few people about and no one tried to stop me. I was staking all on getting to Queen Anne’s Gate.
我的速度非常快，那天晚上我就长出了翅膀。转眼间我就到了蓓尔美尔街，转向圣詹姆斯公园。我在宫殿门口躲避了警察，冲过广场入口处拥挤的马车，在追赶我的人穿过马路之前朝桥走去。在公园的开阔道路上，我冲刺了。庆幸的是周围人很少，也没有人试图阻止我。我赌上了一切才能到达安妮女王之门。

When I entered that quiet thoroughfare it seemed deserted. Sir Walter’s house was in the narrow part, and outside it three or four motor-cars were drawn up. I slackened speed some yards off and walked briskly up to the door. If the butler refused me admission, or if he even delayed to open the door, I was done.
当我走进那条安静的大道时，它显得空无一人。沃尔特爵士的房子位于狭窄的地方，外面停着三四辆汽车。我放慢了几码的速度，轻快地走到门口。如果管家拒绝我入内，或者甚至延迟开门，我就完了。

He didn’t delay. I had scarcely rung before the door opened.
他没有拖延。我刚按响门，门就开了。

‘I must see Sir Walter,’ I panted. ‘My business is desperately important.’
“我必须见沃尔特爵士，”我气喘吁吁地说。 “我的生意非常重要。”

That butler was a great man. Without moving a muscle he held the door open, and then shut it behind me. ‘Sir Walter is engaged, Sir, and I have orders to admit no one. Perhaps you will wait.’
那个管家是一个​​伟大的人。他一动不动地把门打开，然后在我身后关上。 “沃尔特爵士订婚了，先生，我奉命不许任何人进来。也许你会等待。

The house was of the old-fashioned kind, with a wide hall and rooms on both sides of it. At the far end was an alcove with a telephone and a couple of chairs, and there the butler offered me a seat.
房子是老式的，大厅很宽阔，两边都是房间。尽头有一个凹室，里面有一部电话和几把椅子，管家在那里给我安排了一个座位。

‘See here,’ I whispered. ‘There’s trouble about and I’m in it. But Sir Walter knows, and I’m working for him. If anyone comes and asks if I am here, tell him a lie.’
“看这里，”我低声说道。 ‘有麻烦，而我也身陷其中。但沃尔特爵士知道，而且我正在为他工作。如果有人来问我是否在这里，请告诉他一个谎言。

He nodded, and presently there was a noise of voices in the street, and a furious ringing at the bell. I never admired a man more than that butler. He opened the door, and with a face like a graven image waited to be questioned. Then he gave them it. He told them whose house it was, and what his orders were, and simply froze them off the doorstep. I could see it all from my alcove, and it was better than any play.
他点点头，不久街上就响起了喧闹的声音，还有愤怒的铃声。我从来没有比那个管家更崇拜一个人了。他打开门，面容如雕刻的肖像，等待着询问。然后他给了他们。他告诉他们这是谁的房子，他的命令是什么，然后就把他们拒之门外。我可以从我的壁龛里看到这一切，这比任何戏剧都好。

I hadn’t waited long till there came another ring at the bell. The butler made no bones about admitting this new visitor.
我没等多久，门铃又响了。管家毫不犹豫地接待了这位新客人。

While he was taking off his coat I saw who it was. You couldn’t open a newspaper or a magazine without seeing that face the grey beard cut like a spade, the firm fighting mouth, the blunt square nose, and the keen blue eyes. I recognized the First Sea Lord, the man, they say, that made the new British Navy.
当他脱掉外套时，我看到了那人是谁。你打开报纸或杂志就无法看到那张脸，灰色的胡须修剪得像铲子一样，坚定的斗嘴，钝的方鼻子和敏锐的蓝眼睛。我认出了第一海务大臣，他们说，正是这个人缔造了新的英国海军。

He passed my alcove and was ushered into a room at the back of the hall. As the door opened I could hear the sound of low voices. It shut, and I was left alone again.
他经过我的凹室，被领进大厅后面的一个房间。门一打开，我就听到了低沉的说话声。门关了，又只剩下我一个人了。

For twenty minutes I sat there, wondering what I was to do next. I was still perfectly convinced that I was wanted, but when or how I had no notion. I kept looking at my watch, and as the time crept on to half-past ten I began to think that the conference must soon end. In a quarter of an hour Royer should be speeding along the road to Portsmouth ...
我坐在那里二十分钟，思考下一步该做什么。我仍然坚信我是被通缉的，但我不知道何时或如何被通缉。我不停地看手表，时间已经快到十点半了，我开始想会议很快就要结束了。再过一刻钟，罗耶就会沿着去朴茨茅斯的路飞驰……

Then I heard a bell ring, and the butler appeared. The door of the back room opened, and the First Sea Lord came out. He walked past me, and in passing he glanced in my direction, and for a second we looked each other in the face.
然后我听到铃声响起，管家出现了。后屋的门打开，第一海务大臣走了出来。他从我身边走过，同时朝我的方向看了一眼，我们面对面看了一会儿。

Only for a second, but it was enough to make my heart jump. I had never seen the great man before, and he had never seen me. But in that fraction of time something sprang into his eyes, and that something was recognition. You can’t mistake it. It is a flicker, a spark of light, a minute shade of difference which means one thing and one thing only. It came involuntarily, for in a moment it died, and he passed on. In a maze of wild fancies I heard the street door close behind him.
虽然只有一秒钟，却足以让我心潮澎湃。我以前从未见过这位伟人，他也从未见过我。但就在那一刻，他的眼中突然闪现出某种东西，那就是认出。你不会弄错的。它是一种闪烁，一道光的火花，一种细微的差别，意味着一件事，而且只意味着一件事。它是不由自主地来的，因为它立刻就死了，然后他就走了。在疯狂的幻想迷宫中，我听到街门在他身后关上。

I picked up the telephone book and looked up the number of his house. We were connected at once, and I heard a servant’s voice.
我拿起电话簿，查了他家的电话号码。我们立刻就接通了，我听到了仆人的声音。

‘Is his Lordship at home?’ I asked.
“陛下在家吗？”我问道。

‘His Lordship returned half an hour ago,’ said the voice, ‘and has gone to bed. He is not very well tonight. Will you leave a message, Sir?’
“大人半小时前回来了，”那个声音说道，“已经上床睡觉了。”他今晚不太舒服。先生，您能留言吗？

I rang off and almost tumbled into a chair. My part in this business was not yet ended. It had been a close shave, but I had been in time.
我挂掉电话，差点跌倒在椅子上。我在这项事业中的角色还没有结束。虽然是九死一生，但我来得及时。

Not a moment could be lost, so I marched boldly to the door of that back room and entered without knocking.
我一刻也不能耽误，所以我大步走到那间里屋的门前，没有敲门就进去了。

Five surprised faces looked up from a round table. There was Sir Walter, and Drew the War Minister, whom I knew from his photographs. There was a slim elderly man, who was probably Whittaker, the Admiralty official, and there was General WinStanley, conspicuous from the long scar on his forehead. Lastly, there was a short stout man with an iron-grey moustache and bushy eyebrows, who had been arrested in the middle of a sentence.
五张惊讶的面孔从圆桌上抬起头来。其中有沃尔特爵士和陆军部长德鲁，我从他的照片中认识了他。其中有一位身材瘦长的老人，可能是海军部官员惠特克，还有温斯坦利将军，额头上的长疤很显眼。最后还有一个铁灰色小胡子、眉毛浓密的矮胖男子，刚说完就被抓了。

Sir Walter’s face showed surprise and annoyance.
沃尔特爵士的脸上露出惊讶和恼怒。

‘This is Mr Hannay, of whom I have spoken to you,’ he said apologetically to the company. ‘I’m afraid, Hannay, this visit is ill-timed.’
“这是汉内先生，我已经和你们谈过他了，”他向公司成员道歉。 “恐怕汉内，这次访问来得不合时宜。”

I was getting back my coolness. ‘That remains to be seen, Sir,’ I said; ‘but I think it may be in the nick of time. For God’s sake, gentlemen, tell me who went out a minute ago?’
我又恢复了冷静。 “这还有待观察，先生，”我说。 “但我认为这可能是在紧要关头。看在上帝的份上，先生们，告诉我谁一分钟前出去了？

‘Lord Alloa,’ Sir Walter said, reddening with anger. ‘It was not,’ I cried; ‘it was his living image, but it was not Lord Alloa. It was someone who recognized me, someone I have seen in the last month. He had scarcely left the doorstep when I rang up Lord Alloa’s house and was told he had come in half an hour before and had gone to bed.’
“阿洛大人，”沃尔特爵士气得脸都红了。 “不是的，”我喊道。 “这是他活生生的形象，但不是阿洛勋爵。这是一个认出了我的人，是我上个月见过的一个人。他刚走出家门，我就给阿洛勋爵的家打电话，得知他半小时前就来了，已经上床睡觉了。

‘Who who -’ someone stammered.
“谁谁——”有人结结巴巴地说。

‘The Black Stone,’ I cried, and I sat down in the chair so recently vacated and looked round at five badly scared gentlemen.
“黑石，”我喊道，然后在刚刚腾出的椅子上坐下，环顾四周，看着五位吓坏了的绅士。

CHAPTER NINE
第九章

The Thirty-Nine Steps
三十九级台阶

’Nonsense!’ said the official from the Admiralty.
“胡说八道！”海军部官员说。

Sir Walter got up and left the room while we looked blankly at the table. He came back in ten minutes with a long face. ‘I have spoken to Alloa,’ he said. ‘Had him out of bed very grumpy. He went straight home after Mulross’s dinner.’
沃尔特爵士起身离开了房间，而我们茫然地看着桌子。十分钟后他就拉长了脸回来了。 “我已经和阿洛谈过了，”他说。 ‘让他下床，脾气暴躁。穆罗斯吃完晚饭后他就直接回家了。

‘But it’s madness,’ broke in General Winstanley. ‘Do you mean to tell me that that man came here and sat beside me for the best part of half an hour and that I didn’t detect the imposture? Alloa
“但这太疯狂了，”温斯坦利将军插话道。 “你的意思是说，那个男人来到这里，在我旁边坐了大半个小时，而我却没有发现这个骗局？”阿洛阿

must be out of his mind.’ ‘Don’t you see the cleverness of it?’ I said. ‘You were too interested in other things to have any eyes. You took Lord Alloa for granted. If it had been anybody else you might have looked more closely, but it was natural for him to be here, and that put you all to sleep.’
“你难道没看出这很聪明吗？”我说。 ‘你对其他事情太感兴趣，以至于没有眼睛。你把阿洛勋爵视为理所当然。如果是其他人，你可能会看得更仔细，但他在这里很自然，这让你们都睡着了。

Then the Frenchman spoke, very slowly and in good English.
然后法国人说话了，语速非常慢，英语说得很好。

‘The young man is right. His psychology is good. Our enemies have not been foolish!’
‘年轻人说得对。他的心理素质很好。我们的敌人并不愚蠢！”

He bent his wise brows on the assembly.
他对集会皱起了睿智的眉毛。

‘I will tell you a tale,’ he said. ‘It happened many years ago in Senegal. I was quartered in a remote station, and to pass the time used to go fishing for big barbel in the river. A little Arab mare used to carry my luncheon basket one of the salted dun breed you got at Timbuctoo in the old days. Well, one morning I had good sport, and the mare was unaccountably restless. I could hear her whinnying and squealing and stamping her feet, and I kept soothing her with my voice while my mind was intent on fish. I could see her all the time, as I thought, out of a corner of my eye, tethered to a tree twenty yards away. After a couple of hours I began to think of food. I collected my fish in a tarpaulin bag, and moved down the stream towards the mare, trolling my line. When I got up to her I flung the tarpaulin on her back -’ He paused and looked round.
“我会告诉你一个故事，”他说。 “这件事发生在很多年前的塞内加尔。我住在一个偏远的车站，为了打发时间，我经常去河里钓鱼。一匹阿拉伯小母马曾经给我驮午餐篮，午餐篮是你以前在廷巴克图买到的一种咸褐色品种。好吧，有一天早上我进行了一场精彩的运动，而母马却莫名其妙地焦躁不安。我能听到她的呜呜声、尖叫声和跺脚声，我一边用声音安抚她，一边专注于鱼。正如我所想，我一直都能用眼角的余光看到她，她被拴在二十码外的一棵树上。几个小时后，我开始想到食物。我把鱼装进防水布袋里，然后沿着小溪朝母马走去，拖钓着我的鱼线。当我走到她身边时，我把防水布扔到她背上——”他停了下来，环顾四周。

‘It was the smell that gave me warning. I turned my head and found myself looking at a lion three feet off ... An old man-eater, that was the terror of the village ... What was left of the mare, a mass of blood and bones and hide, was behind him.’
“正是这种气味给了我警告。我转过头，发现自己正看着三英尺外的一头狮子……一头年老的食人者，那是村里的恐怖……母马留下的东西，一团血、骨头和兽皮，是在他后面。'

‘What happened?’ I asked. I was enough of a hunter to know a true yarn when I heard it.
“发生什么事了？”我问道。我是一个猎人，当我听到某个故事时，我知道它是真实的。

‘I stuffed my fishing-rod into his jaws, and I had a pistol. Also my servants came presently with rifles. But he left his mark on me.’ He held up a hand which lacked three fingers.
“我把钓鱼竿塞进了他的嘴里，我还有一把手枪。我的仆人很快也带着步枪来了。但他在我身上留下了印记。”他举起一只缺少三个手指的手。

‘Consider,’ he said. ‘The mare had been dead more than an hour, and the brute had been patiently watching me ever since. I never saw the kill, for I was accustomed to the mare’s fretting, and I never marked her absence, for my consciousness of her was only of something tawny, and the lion filled that part. If I could blunder thus, gentlemen, in a land where men’s senses are keen, why should we busy preoccupied urban folk not err also?’
“考虑一下，”他说。 “那匹母马已经死了一个多小时了，从那时起，这匹畜生就一直耐心地看着我。我从来没有亲眼目睹过猎物，因为我已经习惯了母马的烦躁，也从来没有注意到她不在，因为我对她的意识只是黄褐色的东西，而狮子则填补了那个部分。先生们，如果我在一个人类感官敏锐的土地上也会犯这样的错误，为什么我们这些忙碌而全神贯注的城市居民也不会犯错误呢？

Sir Walter nodded. No one was ready to gainsay him.
沃尔特爵士点点头。没有人愿意反驳他。

‘But I don’t see,’ went on Winstanley. ‘Their object was to get these dispositions without our knowing it. Now it only required one of us to mention to Alloa our meeting tonight for the whole fraud to be exposed.’
“但我不明白，”温斯坦利继续说道。 “他们的目的是在我们不知情的情况下获得这些处置。现在只需要我们中的一个人向阿洛提及我们今晚的会议，整个骗局就会被揭露。”

Sir Walter laughed dryly. ‘The selection of Alloa shows their acumen. Which of us was likely to speak to him about tonight? Or was he likely to open the subject?’
沃尔特爵士干笑一声。 “选择阿洛阿显示了他们的聪明才智。我们当中谁可能会和他谈论今晚的事？或者他可能会打开这个话题吗？

I remembered the First Sea Lord’s reputation for taciturnity and shortness of temper.
我记得第一海务大臣以沉默寡言和脾气暴躁而闻名。

‘The one thing that puzzles me,’ said the General, ‘is what good his visit here would do that spy fellow? He could not carry away several pages of figures and strange names in his head.’
“令我困惑的一件事是，”将军说，“他来这里对那个间谍有什么好处？他脑子里记不清几页数字和奇怪的名字。

‘That is not difficult,’ the Frenchman replied. ‘A good spy is trained to have a photographic memory. Like your own Macaulay. You noticed he said nothing, but went through these papers again and again. I think we may assume that he has every detail stamped on his mind. When I was younger I could do the same trick.’
“这并不难，”法国人回答道。 “一名优秀的间谍经过训练，拥有过目不忘的记忆力。就像你自己的麦考利一样。你注意到他什么也没说，只是一遍又一遍地浏览这些文件。我想我们可以假设他已经把每一个细节都铭记在心了。当我年轻的时候，我也可以做同样的事情。

‘Well, I suppose there is nothing for it but to change the plans,’ said Sir Walter ruefully.
“好吧，我想除了改变计划之外别无他法，”沃尔特爵士沮丧地说。

Whittaker was looking very glum. ‘Did you tell Lord Alloa what has happened?’ he asked. ‘No? Well, I can’t speak with absolute assurance, but I’m nearly certain we can’t make any serious change unless we alter the geography of England.’
惠特克看上去非常闷闷不乐。 “你告诉阿洛勋爵发生了什么事吗？”他问道。 '不？好吧，我不能绝对保证，但我几乎可以肯定，除非我们改变英格兰的地理，否则我们无法做出任何重大改变。

‘Another thing must be said,’ it was Royer who spoke. ‘I talked freely when that man was here. I told something of the military plans of my Government. I was permitted to say so much. But that information would be worth many millions to our enemies. No, my friends, I see no other way. The man who came here and his confederates must be taken, and taken at once.’
“还有一件事必须说，”说话的是罗耶。 ‘当那个人在这里的时候，我畅所欲言。我讲述了我国政府的军事计划。我被允许说这么多。但这些信息对我们的敌人来说价值数百万美元。不，我的朋友们，我没有其他办法。来到这里的人和他的同伙必须被抓获，而且必须立即抓获。”

‘Good God,’ I cried, ‘and we have not a rag of a clue.’
“天哪，”我喊道，“我们却没有任何线索。”

‘Besides,’ said Whittaker, ‘there is the post. By this time the news will be on its way.’
“此外，”惠特克说，“还有那个职位。”到时候消息就会传过来。”

‘No,’ said the Frenchman. ‘You do not understand the habits of the spy. He receives personally his reward, and he delivers personally his intelligence. We in France know something of the breed. There is still a chance, MES AMIS. These men must cross the sea, and there are ships to be searched and ports to be watched. Believe me, the need is desperate for both France and Britain.’
“不，”法国人说。 ‘你不了解间谍的习惯。他亲自接受他的奖励，他亲自提供他的智慧。我们法国人对这个品种有所了解。还有机会，MES AMIS。这些人必须渡海，还有船只要搜查，港口要监视。相信我，法国和英国都迫切需要。

Royer’s grave good sense seemed to pull us together. He was the man of action among fumblers. But I saw no hope in any face, and I felt none. Where among the fifty millions of these islands and within a dozen hours were we to lay hands on the three cleverest rogues in Europe?
罗耶的敏锐判断力似乎将我们团结在一起。他是笨拙者中的实干家。但我在任何人脸上都看不到希望，也感觉不到希望。在这五千万个岛屿中，我们能在十几个小时内抓住欧洲最聪明的三个盗贼吗？

Then suddenly I had an inspiration.
然后我突然有了灵感。

‘Where is Scudder’s book?’ I cried to Sir Walter. ‘Quick, man, I remember something in it.’
“斯卡德的书在哪里？”我向沃尔特爵士喊道。 “快点，伙计，我记得里面有东西。”

He unlocked the door of a bureau and gave it to me.
他打开了一个柜子的门并把它交给了我。

I found the place. THIRTY-NINE STEPS, I read, and again, THIRTY-NINE STEPS I COUNTED THEM HIGH TIDE 10.17 P.M.
我找到了那个地方。我读到了三十九级台阶，我数了一遍，三十九级台阶是晚上 10 点 17 分的高潮。

The Admiralty man was looking at me as if he thought I had gone mad.
海军部的人看着我，好像他认为我疯了。

‘Don’t you see it’s a clue,’ I shouted. ‘Scudder knew where these fellows laired he knew where they were going to leave the country, though he kept the name to himself. Tomorrow was the day, and it was some place where high tide was at 10.17.’
“你没看到这是一条线索吗？”我喊道。 “斯卡德知道这些家伙在哪里藏身，他知道他们将离开这个国家去哪里，尽管他没有透露这个名字。明天就是这一天，那个地方的涨潮时间是 10 点 17 分。”

‘They may have gone tonight,’ someone said.
“他们今晚可能已经走了，”有人说。

‘Not they. They have their own snug secret way, and they won’t be hurried. I know Germans, and they are mad about working to a plan. Where the devil can I get a book of Tide Tables?’
‘不是他们。他们有自己的舒适秘道，不会着急。我了解德国人，他们热衷于按计划工作。我到底在哪里能买到一本潮汐表？

Whittaker brightened up. ‘It’s a chance,’ he said. ‘Let’s go over to the Admiralty.’
惠特克眼前一亮。 “这是一个机会，”他说。 “我们去金钟吧。”

We got into two of the waiting motor-cars all but Sir Walter, who went off to Scotland Yard to ‘mobilize MacGillivray’, so he said. We marched through empty corridors and big bare chambers where the charwomen were busy, till we reached a little room lined with books and maps. A resident clerk was unearthed, who presently fetched from the library the Admiralty Tide Tables. I sat at the desk and the others stood round, for somehow or other I had got charge of this expedition.
我们上了两辆等候的汽车，除了沃尔特爵士，他去了苏格兰场“动员麦吉利夫雷”，他说。我们穿过空荡荡的走廊和空荡荡的大房间，女佣们正在忙碌，直到我们到达一个摆满书籍和地图的小房间。一名常驻职员被发现，他立即从图书馆取出了金钟潮汐表。我坐在办公桌前，其他人则站在周围，因为不知何故我负责了这次探险。

It was no good. There were hundreds of entries, and so far as I could see 10.17 might cover fifty places. We had to find some way of narrowing the possibilities.
这可不行。有数百个条目，据我所知，10.17 可能涵盖五十个位置。我们必须找到某种方法来缩小可能性。

I took my head in my hands and thought. There must be some way of reading this riddle. What did Scudder mean by steps? I thought of dock steps, but if he had meant that I didn’t think he would have mentioned the number. It must be some place where there were several staircases, and one marked out from the others by having thirty-nine steps.
我双手抱头思考。一定有某种方法可以解读这个谜语。斯卡德所说的步骤是什么意思？我想到了码头台阶，但如果他是这个意思，我认为他不会提到这个数字。一定是某个地方有几座楼梯，其中一座有三十九级台阶，与其他楼梯区分开来。

Then I had a sudden thought, and hunted up all the steamer sailings. There was no boat which left for the Continent at 10.17 p.m.
然后我灵机一动，把所有的轮船航次都查了出来。晚上 10 点 17 分没有开往欧洲大陆的船。

Why was high tide so important? If it was a harbour it must be some little place where the tide mattered, or else it was a heavydraught boat. But there was no regular steamer sailing at that hour, and somehow I didn’t think they would travel by a big boat from a regular harbour. So it must be some little harbour where the tide was important, or perhaps no harbour at all.
为什么涨潮如此重要？如果它是一个港口，那一定是某个受潮汐影响的小地方，否则它就是一艘吃水很大的船。但那个时候没有定期的轮船航行，不知何故，我不认为他们会从常规港口乘坐大船旅行。所以它一定是某个潮汐很重要的小港口，或者根本就没有港口。

But if it was a little port I couldn’t see what the steps signified. There were no sets of staircases on any harbour that I had ever seen. It must be some place which a particular staircase identified, and where the tide was full at 10.17. On the whole it seemed to me that the place must be a bit of open coast. But the staircases kept puzzling me.
但如果它是一个小港口，我就看不出这些台阶意味着什么。我所见过的任何港口都没有楼梯。它一定是某个特定楼梯所识别的地方，并且在 10.17 时涨潮。总的来说，我觉得这个地方一定是有点开放的海岸。但楼梯一直让我困惑。

Then I went back to wider considerations. Whereabouts would a man be likely to leave for Germany, a man in a hurry, who wanted a speedy and a secret passage? Not from any of the big harbours. And not from the Channel or the West Coast or Scotland, for, remember, he was starting from London. I measured the distance on the map, and tried to put myself in the enemy’s shoes. I should try for Ostend or Antwerp or Rotterdam, and I should sail from somewhere on the East Coast between Cromer and Dover.
然后我回到更广泛的考虑。一个匆忙的人想要一条快速而秘密的通道，他可能会去哪里去德国呢？不是来自任何大港口。而且不是从英吉利海峡、西海岸或苏格兰出发，因为请记住，他是从伦敦出发的。我在地图上测量了距离，并试图设身处地为敌人着想。我应该尝试前往奥斯坦德、安特卫普或鹿特丹，并且我应该从克罗默和多佛之间的东海岸某个地方航行。

All this was very loose guessing, and I don’t pretend it was ingenious or scientific. I wasn’t any kind of Sherlock Holmes. But I have always fancied I had a kind of instinct about questions like this. I don’t know if I can explain myself, but I used to use my brains as far as they went, and after they came to a blank wall I guessed, and I usually found my guesses pretty right.
所有这些都是非常宽松的猜测，我并不假装这是巧妙或科学的。我不是夏洛克·福尔摩斯。但我一直认为我对此类问题有一种本能。我不知道我是否可以解释自己，但我过去常常用我的大脑，当他们走到一堵空白的墙时我就猜了，而且我通常发现我的猜测很正确。

So I set out all my conclusions on a bit of Admiralty paper. They ran like this:
所以我在一份金钟文件上列出了我的所有结论。他们是这样跑的：

FAIRLY CERTAIN
相当确定

(1) Place where there are several sets of stairs; one that matters distinguished by having thirty-nine steps.
(1)有多组楼梯的场所；重要的是有三十九级台阶。

(2) Full tide at 10.17 p.m. Leaving shore only possible at full tide.
(2) 晚上10点17分满潮仅可在满潮时离岸。

(3) Steps not dock steps, and so place probably not harbour.
(3) 台阶不是码头台阶，因此该地方可能不是港口。

(4) No regular night steamer at 10.17. Means of transport must be tramp (unlikely), yacht, or fishing-boat.
(4) 10.17无定期夜船。交通工具必须是不定期船（不太可能）、游艇或渔船。

There my reasoning stopped. I made another list, which I headed ‘Guessed’, but I was just as sure of the one as the other.
我的推理就此停止。我又列出了一份清单，标题为“猜测”，但我对其中一个和另一个都一样确定。

GUESSED
猜测

(1) Place not harbour but open coast.
(1) 地点不是港口而是开阔的海岸。

(2) Boat small trawler, yacht, or launch.
(2) 小型拖网渔船、游艇或汽艇。

(3) Place somewhere on East Coast between Cromer and Dover.
(3) 放置在东海岸克罗默和多佛之间的某个地方。

it struck me as odd that I should be sitting at that desk with a Cabinet Minister, a Field-Marshal, two high Government officials, and a French General watching me, while from the scribble of a dead man I was trying to drag a secret which meant life or death for us.
让我感到奇怪的是，我坐在那张办公桌前，身边有一位内阁部长、一位陆军元帅、两位高级政府官员和一位法国将军在注视着我，而我却试图从一个死人的潦草字迹中找出一个秘密。这对我们来说意味着生死攸关。

Sir Walter had joined us, and presently MacGillivray arrived. He had sent out instructions to watch the ports and railway stations for the three men whom I had described to Sir Walter. Not that he or anybody else thought that that would do much good.
沃尔特爵士加入了我们，不久麦吉利夫雷也到了。他已发出指示，监视港口和火车站，寻找我向沃尔特爵士描述的那三个人。他或其他人并不认为这会有多大好处。

‘Here’s the most I can make of it,’ I said. ‘We have got to find a place where there are several staircases down to the beach, one of which has thirty-nine steps. I think it’s a piece of open coast with biggish cliffs, somewhere between the Wash and the Channel. Also it’s a place where full tide is at 10.17 tomorrow night.’
“这就是我能做的最多的事情了，”我说。 “我们必须找到一个有几级楼梯通向海滩的地方，其中一个有三十九级台阶。我认为这是一片开阔的海岸，有很大的悬崖，位于沃什河和英吉利海峡之间的某个地方。明天晚上 10 点 17 分，这里将迎来满潮。”

Then an idea struck me. ‘Is there no Inspector of Coastguards or some fellow like that who knows the East Coast?’
然后我想到了一个主意。 “难道没有海岸警卫队督察或类似的人了解东海岸吗？”

Whittaker said there was, and that he lived in Clapham. He went off in a car to fetch him, and the rest of us sat about the little room and talked of anything that came into our heads. I lit a pipe and went over the whole thing again till my brain grew weary.
惠特克说有，而且他住在克拉彭。他开车去接他，我们其余的人坐在小房间里，谈论我们想到的任何事情。我点燃了一根烟斗，把整个事情又回顾了一遍，直到我的大脑变得疲倦为止。

About one in the morning the coastguard man arrived. He was a fine old fellow, with the look of a naval officer, and was desperately respectful to the company. I left the War Minister to cross-examine him, for I felt he would think it cheek in me to talk.
大约凌晨一点，海岸警卫队的人到达了。他是个很好的老伙计，有着海军军官的相貌，对公司非常尊重。我让陆军部长去盘问他，因为我觉得他会认为我说话很厚颜无耻。

‘We want you to tell us the places you know on the East Coast where there are cliffs, and where several sets of steps run down to the beach.’
“我们希望你告诉我们你所知道的东海岸有悬崖的地方，以及有几组台阶通向海滩的地方。”

He thought for a bit. ‘What kind of steps do you mean, Sir? There are plenty of places with roads cut down through the cliffs, and most roads have a step or two in them. Or do you mean regular staircases all steps, so to speak?’
他想了想。 “先生，您所说的步骤是什么？很多地方都有从悬崖上开凿的道路，而且大多数道路都有一两级台阶。或者你的意思是普通楼梯所有的台阶，可以这么说吗？

Sir Arthur looked towards me. ‘We mean regular staircases,’ I said.
阿瑟爵士看着我。 “我们指的是普通楼梯，”我说。

He reflected a minute or two. ‘I don’t know that I can think of any. Wait a second. There’s a place in Norfolk Brattlesham beside a golf-course, where there are a couple of staircases, to let the gentlemen get a lost ball.’
他思考了一两分钟。 “我不知道我能想到什么。等一下。在诺福克布拉特舍姆的一个高尔夫球场旁边有一个地方，那里有几个楼梯，可以让绅士们捡起丢失的球。

‘That’s not it,’ I said.
“不是这样的，”我说。

‘Then there are plenty of Marine Parades, if that’s what you mean. Every seaside resort has them.’
“如果你是这个意思的话，那么还有很多马林游行。”每个海滨度假胜地都有它们。

I shook my head. ‘It’s got to be more retired than that,’ I said.
我摇摇头。 “它一定比那更退休，”我说。

‘Well, gentlemen, I can’t think of anywhere else. Of course, there’s the Ruff -’
“好吧，先生们，我想不出其他地方了。当然，还有鲁夫——”

‘What’s that?’ I asked.
“那是什么？”我问。

‘The big chalk headland in Kent, close to Bradgate. It’s got a lot of villas on the top, and some of the houses have staircases down to a private beach. It’s a very high-toned sort of place, and the residents there like to keep by themselves.’
“肯特郡的大白垩岬，靠近布拉德盖特。山顶有很多别墅，有些房子有楼梯通往私人海滩。这是一个非常高调的地方，那里的居民喜欢独处。”

I tore open the Tide Tables and found Bradgate. High tide there was at 10.17 P.m. on the 15th of June.
我撕开潮汐表并找到了布拉德盖特。晚上 10 点 17 分达到高潮。 6 月 15 日。

‘We’re on the scent at last,’ I cried excitedly. ‘How can I find out what is the tide at the Ruff?’
“我们终于闻到了气味了，”我兴奋地喊道。 “我怎样才能知道 Ruff 的潮汐是多少？”

‘I can tell you that, Sir,’ said the coastguard man. ‘I once was lent a house there in this very month, and I used to go out at night to the deep-sea fishing. The tide’s ten minutes before Bradgate.’
“我可以告诉你，先生，”海岸警卫队人员说。 “就在这个月，我在那里借了一套房子，晚上我经常出去深海钓鱼。潮水比布拉德盖特还早十分钟。

I closed the book and looked round at the company.
我合上书，环顾公司。

‘If one of those staircases has thirty-nine steps we have solved the mystery, gentlemen,’ I said. ‘I want the loan of your car, Sir Walter, and a map of the roads. If Mr MacGillivray will spare me ten minutes, I think we can prepare something for tomorrow.’
“如果其中一个楼梯有三十九级台阶，我们就解开了这个谜，先生们，”我说。 “沃尔特爵士，我想要借用你的汽车，以及一张道路地图。如果麦吉利夫雷先生能抽出我十分钟时间，我想我们可以为明天准备一些东西。

It was ridiculous in me to take charge of the business like this, but they didn’t seem to mind, and after all I had been in the show from the start. Besides, I was used to rough jobs, and these eminent gentlemen were too clever not to see it. It was General Royer who gave me my commission. ‘I for one,’ he said, ‘am content to leave the matter in Mr Hannay’s hands.’
我这样来负责这个生意真是可笑，但他们似乎并不介意，毕竟我从一开始就参与其中。再说了，我已经习惯了艰苦的工作，这些显赫的先生们太聪明了，不可能看不到这一点。是罗耶将军给了我委任状。 “我个人，”他说，“很乐意把这件事交给汉内先生处理。”

By half-past three I was tearing past the moonlit hedgerows of Kent, with MacGillivray’s best man on the seat beside me.
三点半的时候，我已经冲过肯特郡月光下的树篱，麦吉利夫雷的伴郎就坐在我旁边。

CHAPTER TEN
第十章

Various Parties Converging on the Sea
海上各方汇聚

A pink and blue June morning found me at Bradgate looking from the Griffin Hotel over a smooth sea to the lightship on the Cock sands which seemed the size of a bell-buoy. A couple of miles farther south and much nearer the shore a small destroyer was anchored. Scaife, MacGillivray’s man, who had been in the Navy, knew the boat, and told me her name and her commander’s, so I sent off a wire to Sir Walter.
六月的一个粉红色和蓝色的早晨，我在布拉德盖特从格里芬酒店眺望平静的大海，看到科克沙滩上的灯船，它看起来像一个钟浮标那么大。向南几英里、更靠近海岸的地方，一艘小型驱逐舰停泊在那里。麦克吉利夫雷的手下斯凯夫曾在海军服役，她认识这艘船，并告诉我她的名字和指挥官的名字，所以我给沃尔特爵士发了一封电报。

After breakfast Scaife got from a house-agent a key for the gates of the staircases on the Ruff. I walked with him along the sands, and sat down in a nook of the cliffs while he investigated the halfdozen of them. I didn’t want to be seen, but the place at this hour was quite deserted, and all the time I was on that beach I saw nothing but the sea-gulls.
早餐后，斯凯夫从房屋经纪人那里得到了拉夫楼梯大门的钥匙。我和他一起沿着沙滩行走，并在悬崖的一角坐下来，而他则在调查这六个悬崖。我不想被人看到，但这个时候这个地方很冷清，我一直在那个海滩上，除了海鸥什么也看不见。

It took him more than an hour to do the job, and when I saw him coming towards me, conning a bit of paper, I can tell you my heart was in my mouth. Everything depended, you see, on my guess proving right.
他花了一个多小时才完成这项工作，当我看到他拿着一张纸向我走来时，我可以告诉你，我的心提到了嗓子眼。你看，一切都取决于我的猜测是否正确。

He read aloud the number of steps in the different stairs. ‘Thirtyfour, thirty-five, thirty-nine, forty-two, forty-seven,’ and ‘twentyone’ where the cliffs grew lower. I almost got up and shouted.
他大声读出不同楼梯的台阶数。 “三十四、三十五、三十九、四十二、四十七”和“二十一”，悬崖越来越低。我差点站起来大喊。

We hurried back to the town and sent a wire to MacGillivray. I wanted half a dozen men, and I directed them to divide themselves among different specified hotels. Then Scaife set out to prospect the house at the head of the thirty-nine steps.
我们赶紧回到镇上，给麦克吉利夫雷发了一封电报。我想要六个人，然后我指示他们分到不同的指定酒店。然后斯凯夫出发去考察三十九级台阶尽头的房子。

He came back with news that both puzzled and reassured me. The house was called Trafalgar Lodge, and belonged to an old gentleman called Appleton a retired stockbroker, the house-agent said. Mr Appleton was there a good deal in the summer time, and was in residence now had been for the better part of a week. Scaife could pick up very little information about him, except that he was a decent old fellow, who paid his bills regularly, and was always good for a fiver for a local charity. Then Scaife seemed to have penetrated to the back door of the house, pretending he was an agent for sewing-machines. Only three servants were kept, a cook, a parlour-maid, and a housemaid, and they were just the sort that you would find in a respectable middle-class household. The cook was not the gossiping kind, and had pretty soon shut the door in his face, but Scaife said he was positive she knew nothing. Next door there was a new house building which would give good cover for observation, and the villa on the other side was to let, and its garden was rough and shrubby.
他回来带来的消息让我既困惑又放心。房产经纪人说，这栋房子叫做特拉法加小屋，属于一位名叫阿普尔顿的老绅士，他是一位退休股票经纪人。阿普尔顿先生夏天经常去那里，现在已经呆了大半周了。斯凯夫搜集到的关于他的信息很少，只知道他是一个正派的老家伙，定期支付账单，而且总是为当地的慈善机构捐出五块钱。然后斯凯夫似乎从房子的后门潜入，假装自己是缝纫机代理商。只留下了三个仆人，一个厨师，一个客厅女仆和一个女仆，她们正是在受人尊敬的中产阶级家庭中才能找到的那种人。厨师不是那种八卦的人，很快就当着他的面关上了门，但斯凯夫说他确信她什么都不知道。隔壁有一栋新建的房屋，可以提供良好的观察掩护，而另一边的别墅正在出租，花园很粗糙，灌木丛生。

I borrowed Scaife’s telescope, and before lunch went for a walk along the Ruff. I kept well behind the rows of villas, and found a good observation point on the edge of the golf-course. There I had a view of the line of turf along the cliff top, with seats placed at intervals, and the little square plots, railed in and planted with bushes, whence the staircases descended to the beach. I saw Trafalgar Lodge very plainly, a red-brick villa with a veranda, a tennis lawn behind, and in front the ordinary seaside flower-garden full of marguerites and scraggy geraniums. There was a flagstaff from which an enormous Union Jack hung limply in the still air.
我借了斯凯夫的望远镜，午餐前沿着拉夫河散步。我远远地躲在一排别墅后面，在高尔夫球场的边缘找到了一个很好的观察点。在那里，我可以看到沿着悬崖顶部的一排草皮，座位间隔放置，还有小方形地块，用栏杆围起来，种植灌木丛，楼梯从那里向下延伸到海滩。我看到特拉法尔加旅馆非常简单，是一栋带阳台的红砖别墅，后面是网球场，前面是普通的海边花园，种满了玛格丽特和稀疏的天竺葵。有一根旗杆，上面悬挂着一面巨大的英国国旗，悬挂在静止的空气中。

Presently I observed someone leave the house and saunter along the cliff. When I got my glasses on him I saw it was an old man, wearing white flannel trousers, a blue serge jacket, and a straw hat. He carried field-glasses and a newspaper, and sat down on one of the iron seats and began to read. Sometimes he would lay down the paper and turn his glasses on the sea. He looked for a long time at the destroyer. I watched him for half an hour, till he got up and went back to the house for his luncheon, when I returned to the hotel for mine.
不久，我看到有人离开房子，沿着悬崖漫步。我戴上眼镜，发现是一位老人，穿着白色法兰绒裤子，蓝色哔叽外套，戴着草帽。他拿着望远镜和一份报纸，坐在一张铁椅上开始读书。有时他会放下报纸，将眼镜转向大海。他盯着那艘驱逐舰看了很久。我看了他半个小时，直到他起身回屋吃午饭，我才回酒店吃午饭。

I wasn’t feeling very confident. This decent common-place dwelling was not what I had expected. The man might be the bald archaeologist of that horrible moorland farm, or he might not. He was exactly the kind of satisfied old bird you will find in every suburb and every holiday place. If you wanted a type of the perfectly harmless person you would probably pitch on that.
我感觉不太自信。这个体面的普通住宅并不是我所期望的。这个人可能是那个可怕的沼泽农场的秃头考古学家，也可能不是。他正是那种在每个郊区和每个度假胜地都能找到的满足的老鸟。如果你想要一种完全无害的人，你可能会选择它。

But after lunch, as I sat in the hotel porch, I perked up, for I saw the thing I had hoped for and had dreaded to miss. A yacht came up from the south and dropped anchor pretty well opposite the Ruff. She seemed about a hundred and fifty tons, and I saw she belonged to the Squadron from the white ensign. So Scaife and I went down to the harbour and hired a boatman for an afternoon’s fishing.
但午饭后，当我坐在酒店门廊里时，我精神抖擞，因为我看到了我一直希望看到的、又害怕错过的东西。一艘游艇从南边驶来，在拉夫河对面抛锚。她看起来大约有一百五十吨，我从白色的少尉身上看出她属于中队。于是我和斯凯夫去了港口，雇了一个船夫去钓鱼，花了一个下午的时间。

I spent a warm and peaceful afternoon. We caught between us about twenty pounds of cod and lythe, and out in that dancing blue sea I took a cheerier view of things. Above the white cliffs of the Ruff I saw the green and red of the villas, and especially the great flagstaff of Trafalgar Lodge. About four o’clock, when we had fished enough, I made the boatman row us round the yacht, which lay like a delicate white bird, ready at a moment to flee. Scaife said she must be a fast boat for her build, and that she was pretty heavily engined.
我度过了一个温暖而平静的下午。我们捕获了大约二十磅的鳕鱼和莱丝，在那片舞动的蓝色大海中，我对事物有了更愉快的看法。在拉夫河的白色悬崖之上，我看到了绿色和红色的别墅，尤其是特拉法加旅馆的巨大旗杆。大约四点钟，当我们钓够了鱼后，我让船夫划着我们绕着游艇转了一圈，游艇就像一只精致的白色小鸟，随时准备逃跑。斯凯夫说，就她的身材而言，她一定是一艘快船，而且她的发动机相当强劲。

Her name was the ARIADNE, as I discovered from the cap of one of the men who was polishing brasswork. I spoke to him, and got an answer in the soft dialect of Essex. Another hand that came along passed me the time of day in an unmistakable English tongue. Our boatman had an argument with one of them about the weather, and for a few minutes we lay on our oars close to the starboard bow.
她的名字叫阿里阿德涅，这是我从一位正在抛光黄铜制品的男人的帽子上发现的。我和他交谈，得到了用埃塞克斯柔和的方言回答。另一位过来的手用明确无误的英语向我介绍了一天中的时间。我们的船夫与其中一个人就天气问题发生了争执，我们在靠近右舷船头的桨上躺了几分钟。

Then the men suddenly disregarded us and bent their heads to their work as an officer came along the deck. He was a pleasant, clean-looking young fellow, and he put a question to us about our fishing in very good English. But there could be no doubt about him. His close-cropped head and the cut of his collar and tie never came out of England.
然后，当一名军官沿着甲板走来时，这些人突然无视了我们，低下头去干活。他是一个令人愉快、外表干净的年轻人，他用非常流利的英语向我们提出了有关钓鱼的问题。但对他来说，这是毫无疑问的。他的短发、衣领和领带的剪裁从来都不是来自英格兰。

That did something to reassure me, but as we rowed back to Bradgate my obstinate doubts would not be dismissed. The thing that worried me was the reflection that my enemies knew that I had got my knowledge from Scudder, and it was Scudder who had given me the clue to this place. If they knew that Scudder had this clue, would they not be certain to change their plans? Too much depended on their success for them to take any risks. The whole question was how much they understood about Scudder’s knowledge. I had talked confidently last night about Germans always sticking to a scheme, but if they had any suspicions that I was on their track they would be fools not to cover it. I wondered if the man last night had seen that I recognized him. Somehow I did not think he had, and to that I had clung. But the whole business had never seemed so difficult as that afternoon when by all calculations I should have been rejoicing in assured success.
这让我放心了，但当我们划回布拉德盖特时，我顽固的怀疑并没有消失。让我担心的是，我的敌人知道我是从斯卡德那里得到知识的，而正是斯卡德给了我这个地方的线索。如果他们知道斯卡德有这个线索，他们不就肯定要改变计划了吗？他们太过依赖于自己的成功，因此无法承担任何风险。整个问题在于他们对斯卡德的知识了解多少。昨晚我曾自信地谈到德国人总是坚持某个计划，但如果他们怀疑我正在追踪他们的踪迹，他们就不去报道它，那他们就是傻瓜了。我想知道昨晚那个男人是否看出我认出了他。不知怎的，我不认为他有，但我一直坚持这一点。但整个事情似乎从未像那天下午那样困难，从各方面来看，我本应为确定的成功而感到高兴。

In the hotel I met the commander of the destroyer, to whom Scaife introduced me, and with whom I had a few words. Then I thought I would put in an hour or two watching Trafalgar Lodge.
在旅馆里，我遇到了驱逐舰的指挥官，斯凯夫向他介绍了我，并与他交谈了几句。然后我想我应该花一两个小时观看特拉法加洛奇。

I found a place farther up the hill, in the garden of an empty house. From there I had a full view of the court, on which two figures were having a game of tennis. One was the old man, whom I had already seen; the other was a younger fellow, wearing some club colours in the scarf round his middle. They played with tremendous zest, like two city gents who wanted hard exercise to open their pores. You couldn’t conceive a more innocent spectacle. They shouted and laughed and stopped for drinks, when a maid brought out two tankards on a salver. I rubbed my eyes and asked myself if I was not the most immortal fool on earth. Mystery and darkness had hung about the men who hunted me over the Scotch moor in aeroplane and motor-car, and notably about that infernal antiquarian. It was easy enough to connect those folk with the knife that pinned Scudder to the floor, and with fell designs on the world’s peace. But here were two guileless citizens taking their innocuous exercise, and soon about to go indoors to a humdrum dinner, where they would talk of market prices and the last cricket scores and the gossip of their native Surbiton. I had been making a net to catch vultures and falcons, and lo and behold! two plump thrushes had blundered into it.
我在山上更远的地方找到了一个地方，在一座空房子的花园里。从那里我可以看到球场的全景，两个人影正在球场上打网球。其中一个是那位老人，我已经见过他了；另一个是我见过的老人。另一个是个年轻小伙子，中间围着俱乐部颜色的围巾。他们玩得很投入，就像两个想要通过剧烈运动来打开毛孔的城市绅士。你无法想象比这更天真无邪的景象了。他们又喊又笑，停下来喝饮料，这时一名女仆拿出托盘上的两个大酒杯。我揉揉眼睛，问自己是不是世界上最不朽的傻瓜。那些乘飞机和汽车在苏格兰荒原上追捕我的人，特别是那个可恶的古物收藏家，一直笼罩着神秘和黑暗。很容易将这些人与将斯卡德按在地板上的刀联系起来，并与世界和平的邪恶计划联系起来。但这里有两个朴实无华的公民正在进行无害的锻炼，很快就要进屋吃一顿单调的晚餐，他们会谈论市场价格、最后的板球比分以及家乡瑟比顿的八卦。我一直在制作一张网来捕捉秃鹰和猎鹰，你瞧！两只胖乎乎的画眉鸟跌跌撞撞地掉了进去。

Presently a third figure arrived, a young man on a bicycle, with a bag of golf-clubs slung on his back. He strolled round to the tennis lawn and was welcomed riotously by the players. Evidently they were chaffing him, and their chaff sounded horribly English. Then the plump man, mopping his brow with a silk handkerchief, announced that he must have a tub. I heard his very words ‘I’ve got into a proper lather,’ he said. ‘This will bring down my weight and my handicap, Bob. I’ll take you on tomorrow and give you a stroke a hole.’ You couldn’t find anything much more English than that.
不久，第三个人影出现了，一个骑着自行车的年轻人，背上背着一袋高尔夫球杆。他漫步来到网球场，受到了球员们的热烈欢迎。显然他们是在嘲笑他，而且他们的嘲笑听起来很糟糕。然后，胖男人用丝帕擦着额头，宣布他必须有一个浴缸。我听到了他的原话：“我已经起了泡沫了，”他说。 “这会减轻我的体重和我的残疾，鲍勃。明天我会带你去比赛，给你一杆一洞。’你找不到比这更英国的东西了。

They all went into the house, and left me feeling a precious idiot. I had been barking up the wrong tree this time. These men might be acting; but if they were, where was their audience? They didn’t know I was sitting thirty yards off in a rhododendron. It was simply impossible to believe that these three hearty fellows were anything but what they seemed three ordinary, game-playing, suburban Englishmen, wearisome, if you like, but sordidly innocent.
他们都进了屋子，让我感觉自己像个白痴。这次我找错了树。这些人可能是在演戏，也可能是在演戏。但如果是的话，他们的观众在哪里？他们不知道我正坐在三十码外的杜鹃花丛中。简直令人难以置信，这三个热心的家伙根本不是他们看上去的三个普通的、玩游戏的、郊区的英国人，如果你愿意的话，他们令人厌烦，但又非常天真。

And yet there were three of them; and one was old, and one was plump, and one was lean and dark; and their house chimed in with Scudder’s notes; and half a mile off was lying a steam yacht with at least one German officer. I thought of Karolides lying dead and all Europe trembling on the edge of earthquake, and the men I had left behind me in London who were waiting anxiously for the events of the next hours. There was no doubt that hell was afoot somewhere. The Black Stone had won, and if it survived this June night would bank its winnings.
然而他们却是三个人；一个老了，一个胖了，一个又瘦又黑。他们的房子里响起了斯卡德的音符。半英里外停泊着一艘蒸汽游艇，船上至少有一名德国军官。我想到卡罗利德斯已经死了，整个欧洲都在地震的边缘颤抖，而我留在伦敦的那些人正在焦急地等待接下来几个小时的事件。毫无疑问，地狱正在某处发生。黑石赢了，如果它能在这个六月的夜晚幸存下来，它的奖金就会存入银行。

There seemed only one thing to do go forward as if I had no doubts, and if I was going to make a fool of myself to do it handsomely. Never in my life have I faced a job with greater disinclination. I would rather in my then mind have walked into a den of anarchists, each with his Browning handy, or faced a charging lion with a popgun, than enter that happy home of three cheerful Englishmen and tell them that their game was up. How they would laugh at me!
似乎只有一件事要做，就好像我毫不怀疑一样，继续前进，如果我要出丑的话，就可以漂亮地完成它。在我的一生中，我从来没有遇到过比这更令人厌恶的工作。在我当时的脑海里，我宁愿走进一个无政府主义者的巢穴，每个人都拿着他的勃朗宁，或者面对一头拿着爆弹枪的狮子，也不愿走进那个由三个快乐的英国人组成的幸福之家，告诉他们他们的游戏已经结束了。他们会多么嘲笑我啊！

But suddenly I remembered a thing I once heard in Rhodesia from old Peter Pienaar. I have quoted Peter already in this narrative. He was the best scout I ever knew, and before he had turned respectable he had been pretty often on the windy side of the law, when he had been wanted badly by the authorities. Peter once discussed with me the question of disguises, and he had a theory which struck me at the time. He said, barring absolute certainties like fingerprints, mere physical traits were very little use for identification if the fugitive really knew his business. He laughed at things like dyed hair and false beards and such childish follies. The only thing that mattered was what Peter called ‘atmosphere’.
但突然我想起了我曾经在罗德西亚从老彼得·皮纳尔那里听到的一件事。我已经在这篇叙述中引用了彼得的话。他是我认识的最好的侦察员，在他变得受人尊敬之前，当他被当局通缉时，他经常处于法律的不利地位。彼得曾经和我讨论过伪装的问题，他有一个理论让我当时印象深刻。他说，除非有指纹等绝对确定的信息，如果逃亡者真的了解自己的生意，那么单纯的身体特征对于识别身份来说几乎没有什么用处。他嘲笑染头发、假胡须等幼稚的愚蠢行为。唯一重要的是彼得所说的“气氛”。

If a man could get into perfectly different surroundings from those in which he had been first observed, and this is the important part really play up to these surroundings and behave as if he had never been out of them, he would puzzle the cleverest detectives on earth. And he used to tell a story of how he once borrowed a black coat and went to church and shared the same hymn-book with the man that was looking for him. If that man had seen him in decent company before he would have recognized him; but he had only seen him snuffing the lights in a public-house with a revolver. The recollection of Peter’s talk gave me the first real comfort that I had had that day. Peter had been a wise old bird, and these fellows I was after were about the pick of the aviary. What if they were playing Peter’s game? A fool tries to look different: a clever man looks the same and is different.
如果一个人能够进入与他第一次被观察到的环境完全不同的环境，而这才是真正适应这些环境的重要部分，并且表现得好像他从未离开过这些环境，那么他会让最聪明的侦探感到困惑。地球。他曾经讲过一个故事，说他有一次借了一件黑色外套，去教堂，与正在寻找他的人分享同一本赞美诗集。如果那个人在体面的人面前看到他，他就会认出他来；但他只见过他在一家酒馆里用左轮手枪掐灭灯光。回忆起彼得的谈话，我第一次真正得到了那天的安慰。彼得是一只聪明的老鸟，而我所追寻的这些家伙都是鸟舍中的佼佼者。如果他们正在玩彼得的游戏怎么办？傻瓜试图让自己看起来与众不同；聪明人看起来一样，却有所不同。

Again, there was that other maxim of Peter’s which had helped me when I had been a roadman. ‘If you are playing a part, you will never keep it up unless you convince yourself that you are it.’ That would explain the game of tennis. Those chaps didn’t need to act, they just turned a handle and passed into another life, which came as naturally to them as the first. It sounds a platitude, but Peter used to say that it was the big secret of all the famous criminals.
再说一遍，彼得的另一条格言在我当路工时对我很有帮助。 “如果你在扮演一个角色，你永远无法坚持下去，除非你说服自己你就是这个角色。”这可以解释网球比赛。那些家伙不需要行动，只要转动把手，就进入了另一种生活，这对他们来说就像第一次一样自然。这听起来很陈词滥调，但彼得曾经说过，这是所有著名罪犯的大秘密。

It was now getting on for eight o’clock, and I went back and saw Scaife to give him his instructions. I arranged with him how to place his men, and then I went for a walk, for I didn’t feel up to any dinner. I went round the deserted golf-course, and then to a point on the cliffs farther north beyond the line of the villas.
现在已经八点了，我回去见斯凯夫，向他发出指示。我和他商量如何安置他的人，然后我出去散步，因为我不想吃晚饭。我绕过荒芜的高尔夫球场，然后来到别墅线以外更北的悬崖上的一个地方。

On the little trim newly-made roads I met people in flannels coming back from tennis and the beach, and a coastguard from the wireless station, and donkeys and pierrots padding homewards. Out at sea in the blue dusk I saw lights appear on the ARIADNE and on the destroyer away to the south, and beyond the Cock sands the bigger lights of steamers making for the Thames. The whole scene was so peaceful and ordinary that I got more dashed in spirits every second. It took all my resolution to stroll towards Trafalgar Lodge about half-past nine.
在修剪整齐的新建道路上，我遇到了从网球和海滩回来的穿着法兰绒的人们，还有无线电台的海岸警卫队，还有驴子和小丑正在踏着回家的路。在海上的蓝色黄昏中，我看到阿里阿德涅号和南边的驱逐舰上出现了灯光，科克沙河之外，驶向泰晤士河的轮船的灯光更大。整个场景是那么的平和、平常，让我的兴致每一秒都更加低落。九点半左右，我下定决心漫步走向特拉法加旅馆。

On the way I got a piece of solid comfort from the sight of a greyhound that was swinging along at a nursemaid’s heels. He reminded me of a dog I used to have in Rhodesia, and of the time when I took him hunting with me in the Pali hills. We were after rhebok, the dun kind, and I recollected how we had followed one beast, and both he and I had clean lost it. A greyhound works by sight, and my eyes are good enough, but that buck simply leaked out of the landscape. Afterwards I found out how it managed it. Against the grey rock of the kopjes it showed no more than a crow against a thundercloud. It didn’t need to run away; all it had to do was to stand still and melt into the background.
路上，我看到一只灵缇犬跟在保姆的脚后跟上摇摆，这让我感到非常安慰。他让我想起了我以前在罗得西亚养的一只狗，还有那次我带着他一起去巴利山打猎。我们在追捕雷博克，一种暗褐色的动物，我记得我们是如何跟踪一只野兽的，而他和我都彻底迷失了它。灵缇犬靠视觉工作，我的眼睛也足够好，但这只雄鹿只是从风景中漏出来了。后来我才知道它是如何做到的。在山丘的灰色岩石的映衬下，它只不过是一只乌鸦映衬着雷雨云。它不需要逃跑；它不需要逃跑。它所要做的就是静止不动并融入背景。

Suddenly as these memories chased across my brain I thought of my present case and applied the moral. The Black Stone didn’t need to bolt. They were quietly absorbed into the landscape. I was on the right track, and I jammed that down in my mind and vowed never to forget it. The last word was with Peter Pienaar.
突然，当这些记忆掠过我的大脑时，我想到了我目前的案例并应用了其中的寓意。黑石不需要逃跑。他们静静地融入了风景。我走在正确的道路上，我把它记在心里，并发誓永远不会忘记。最后一句话是彼得·皮纳尔（Peter Pienaar）说的。

Scaife’s men would be posted now, but there was no sign of a soul. The house stood as open as a market-place for anybody to observe. A three-foot railing separated it from the cliff road; the windows on the ground-floor were all open, and shaded lights and the low sound of voices revealed where the occupants were finishing dinner. Everything was as public and above-board as a charity bazaar. Feeling the greatest fool on earth, I opened the gate and rang the bell.
斯凯夫的人马现在已经就位，但没有人影。这座房子就像一个市场一样开放，任何人都可以参观。一道三英尺高的栏杆将它与悬崖路隔开。一楼的窗户全都开着，从昏暗的灯光和低沉的说话声中可以看出，住户们正在吃完晚饭。一切都像慈善义卖一样公开、光明正大。我感觉自己是世界上最愚蠢的人，于是打开门并按响了门铃。

A man of my sort, who has travelled about the world in rough places, gets on perfectly well with two classes, what you may call the upper and the lower. He understands them and they understand him. I was at home with herds and tramps and roadmen, and I was sufficiently at my ease with people like Sir Walter and the men I had met the night before. I can’t explain why, but it is a fact. But what fellows like me don’t understand is the great comfortable, satisfied middle-class world, the folk that live in villas and suburbs. He doesn’t know how they look at things, he doesn’t understand their conventions, and he is as shy of them as of a black mamba. When a trim parlour-maid opened the door, I could hardly find my voice.
像我这样的人，曾周游世界，经历过艰难的地方，却能与两个阶级相处得很好，你可以称之为上层阶级和下层阶级。他理解他们，他们也理解他。我对牛群、流浪汉和修路工人感到很自在，对像沃尔特爵士和我前一天晚上遇到的人这样的人也很自在。我无法解释为什么，但这是事实。但像我这样的人不了解的是舒适、满足的中产阶级世界，那些住在别墅和郊区的人们。他不知道他们如何看待事物，他不理解他们的惯例，他对他们就像对黑曼巴一样害羞。当一位整洁的客厅女仆打开门时，我几乎听不到自己的声音。

I asked for Mr Appleton, and was ushered in. My plan had been to walk straight into the dining-room, and by a sudden appearance wake in the men that start of recognition which would confirm my theory. But when I found myself in that neat hall the place mastered me. There were the golf-clubs and tennis-rackets, the straw hats and caps, the rows of gloves, the sheaf of walking-sticks, which you will find in ten thousand British homes. A stack of neatly folded coats and waterproofs covered the top of an old oak chest; there was a grandfather clock ticking; and some polished brass warming-pans on the walls, and a barometer, and a print of Chiltern winning the St Leger. The place was as orthodox as an Anglican church. When the maid asked me for my name I gave it automatically, and was shown into the smoking-room, on the right side of the hall.
我要求见阿普尔顿先生，他被带了进来。我的计划是直接走进餐厅，突然出现的男人们开始认出我，这将证实我的理论。但当我发现自己身处那个整洁的大厅时，这个地方就征服了我。那里有高尔夫球杆和网球拍、草帽和便帽、成排的手套、一捆手杖，这些东西你在数以万计的英国家庭中都能找到。旧橡木箱子的顶部堆放着叠得整整齐齐的外套和防水衣；有一座老爷钟滴答作响；墙上挂着一些擦得锃亮的黄铜暖锅，还有一个气压计，还有一幅奇尔特恩赢得圣莱杰奖的照片。这个地方就像英国圣公会教堂一样正统。当女仆问我的名字时，我自动报了名，然后被带到大厅右侧的吸烟室。

That room was even worse. I hadn’t time to examine it, but I could see some framed group photographs above the mantelpiece, and I could have sworn they were English public school or college. I had only one glance, for I managed to pull myself together and go after the maid. But I was too late. She had already entered the dining-room and given my name to her master, and I had missed the chance of seeing how the three took it.
那个房间更糟糕。我没有时间检查它，但我可以看到壁炉架上方有一些镶框的集体照片，我可以发誓它们是英国公立学校或大学。我只看了一眼，就努力振作起来，追上了女仆。但我太晚了。她已经进了餐厅，把我的名字告诉了她的主人，我错过了看看三人如何接受的机会。

When I walked into the room the old man at the head of the table had risen and turned round to meet me. He was in evening dress a short coat and black tie, as was the other, whom I called in my own mind the plump one. The third, the dark fellow, wore a blue serge suit and a soft white collar, and the colours of some club or school.
当我走进房间时，桌首的老人已经站起身来迎接我。他穿着晚礼服、短外套和黑色领带，和另一个人一样，我在心里称他为胖子。第三个是黑人，穿着蓝色哔叽套装和柔软的白领，以及一些俱乐部或学校的颜色。

The old man’s manner was perfect. ‘Mr Hannay?’ he said hesitatingly. ‘Did you wish to see me? One moment, you fellows, and I’ll rejoin you. We had better go to the smoking-room.’
老者的举止堪称完美。 “汉内先生？”他犹豫地说。 ‘你想见我吗？等一下，各位，我会重新加入你们。我们最好去吸烟室。

Though I hadn’t an ounce of confidence in me, I forced myself to play the game. I pulled up a chair and sat down on it.
虽然我对自己没有一点信心，但我还是强迫自己去玩这个游戏。我拉过一把椅子，坐了上去。

‘I think we have met before,’ I said, ‘and I guess you know my business.’
“我想我们以前见过面，”我说，“我猜你知道我的事。”

The light in the room was dim, but so far as I could see their faces, they played the part of mystification very well.
房间里的光线很暗，但从我能看到他们的脸来看，他们扮演的神秘角色非常好。

‘Maybe, maybe,’ said the old man. ‘I haven’t a very good memory, but I’m afraid you must tell me your errand, Sir, for I really don’t know it.’
“也许，也许，”老人说。 “我的记忆力不太好，但恐怕您必须告诉我您的任务，先生，因为我真的不知道。”

‘Well, then,’ I said, and all the time I seemed to myself to be talking pure foolishness ‘I have come to tell you that the game’s up. I have a warrant for the arrest of you three gentlemen.’
“好吧，那么，”我说，而我自己觉得自己一直在说一些纯粹的愚蠢的话，“我是来告诉你游戏已经结束了。”我有逮捕你们三位先生的逮捕令。

‘Arrest,’ said the old man, and he looked really shocked. ‘Arrest! Good God, what for?’
“逮捕。”老人说道，他看上去非常震惊。 '逮捕！天哪，这是为什么？

‘For the murder of Franklin Scudder in London on the 23rd day of last month.’
“上个月 23 日在伦敦谋杀富兰克林·斯卡德。”

‘I never heard the name before,’ said the old man in a dazed voice.
“我以前从未听说过这个名字。”老人茫然地说。

One of the others spoke up. ‘That was the Portland Place murder. I read about it. Good heavens, you must be mad, Sir! Where do you come from?’
另外一人开口说道。 “这就是波特兰广场谋杀案。我读到过。天哪，您一定是疯了，先生！你从哪里来的？'

‘Scotland Yard,’ I said.
“苏格兰场，”我说。

After that for a minute there was utter silence. The old man was staring at his plate and fumbling with a nut, the very model of innocent bewilderment.
在那之后有一分钟的彻底的沉默。老人盯着他的盘子，摸索着一颗坚果，这正是天真困惑的典型。

Then the plump one spoke up. He stammered a little, like a man picking his words.
然后胖子开口了。他有点结巴，就像一个人在说话。

‘Don’t get flustered, uncle,’ he said. ‘It is all a ridiculous mistake; but these things happen sometimes, and we can easily set it right. It won’t be hard to prove our innocence. I can show that I was out of the country on the 23rd of May, and Bob was in a nursing home. You were in London, but you can explain what you were doing.’
“别慌张，叔叔，”他说。 “这都是一个可笑的错误；但这些事情有时会发生，我们可以轻松纠正。证明我们的清白并不难。我可以证明 5 月 23 日我出国了，鲍勃在疗养院。你当时在伦敦，但你可以解释一下你在做什么。”

‘Right, Percy! Of course that’s easy enough. The 23rd! That was the day after Agatha’s wedding. Let me see. What was I doing? I came up in the morning from Woking, and lunched at the club with Charlie Symons. Then oh yes, I dined with the Fishmongers. I remember, for the punch didn’t agree with me, and I was seedy next morning. Hang it all, there’s the cigar-box I brought back from the dinner.’ He pointed to an object on the table, and laughed nervously.
“对了，珀西！当然，这很容易。 23号！那是阿加莎婚礼后的第二天。让我看看。我在做什么？我早上从沃金过来，和查理·西蒙斯在俱乐部共进午餐。然后哦，是的，我和鱼贩一起吃饭。我记得，因为这一拳不适合我，第二天早上我就很邋遢。都挂起来吧，这是我晚餐时带回来的雪茄盒。”他指着桌子上的一个东西，紧张地笑起来。

‘I think, Sir,’ said the young man, addressing me respectfully, ‘you will see you are mistaken. We want to assist the law like all Englishmen, and we don’t want Scotland Yard to be making fools of themselves. That’s so, uncle?’
“我想，先生，”年轻人恭敬地对我说道，“你会发现你错了。我们希望像所有英国人一样协助法律，我们不希望苏格兰场出丑。是这样吗，叔叔？

‘Certainly, Bob.’ The old fellow seemed to be recovering his voice. ‘Certainly, we’ll do anything in our power to assist the authorities. But but this is a bit too much. I can’t get over it.’
“当然，鲍勃。”老家伙的声音似乎恢复了。 “当然，我们会尽一切努力协助当局。但这有点太过分了。我无法克服它。

‘How Nellie will chuckle,’ said the plump man. ‘She always said that you would die of boredom because nothing ever happened to you. And now you’ve got it thick and strong,’ and he began to laugh very pleasantly.
“内莉会笑得多么开心啊，”胖男人说。 “她总是说你会无聊死，因为你什么都没发生过。现在你已经变得又厚又强了，”他开始愉快地笑起来。

‘By Jove, yes. just think of it! What a story to tell at the club. Really, Mr Hannay, I suppose I should be angry, to show my innocence, but it’s too funny! I almost forgive you the fright you gave me! You looked so glum, I thought I might have been walking in my sleep and killing people.’
天哪，是的。想想吧！在俱乐部里有一个多么值得讲述的故事啊。真的，汉内先生，我想我应该生气，以表明我的清白，但这太有趣了！我几乎原谅你给我带来的恐惧了！你看起来很忧郁，我以为我可能是在梦中行走并杀人了。”

It couldn’t be acting, it was too confoundedly genuine. My heart went into my boots, and my first impulse was to apologize and clear out. But I told myself I must see it through, even though I was to be the laughing-stock of Britain. The light from the dinnertable candlesticks was not very good, and to cover my confusion I got up, walked to the door and switched on the electric light. The sudden glare made them blink, and I stood scanning the three faces.
这不可能是在演戏，这太真实了。我的心猛地一跳，我的第一反应就是道歉并离开。但我告诉自己，我必须坚持到底，即使我会成为英国的笑柄。餐桌烛台的光线不太好，为了掩饰自己的困惑，我起身走到门口，打开了电灯。突如其来的强光让他们眨了眨眼，我站在那里审视着三张脸。

Well, I made nothing of it. One was old and bald, one was stout, one was dark and thin. There was nothing in their appearance to prevent them being the three who had hunted me in Scotland, but there was nothing to identify them. 1 simply can’t explain why I who, as a roadman, had looked into two pairs of eyes, and as Ned Ainslie into another pair, why I, who have a good memory and reasonable powers of observation, could find no satisfaction. They seemed exactly what they professed to be, and I could not have sworn to one of them.
好吧，我什么都没做。一个又老又秃，一个又胖又黑，一个又黑又瘦。从他们的外表来看，并不能阻止他们就是在苏格兰追捕我的那三个人，但也没有任何东西可以辨认出他们的身份。我根本无法解释为什么我，作为一个路工，看着两双眼睛，而作为内德·安斯利，看着另一双眼睛，为什么我这个拥有良好记忆力和合理观察力的人却找不到满足感。他们看起来确实如他们自称的那样，我不可能向他们中的任何一个发誓。

There in that pleasant dining-room, with etchings on the walls, and a picture of an old lady in a bib above the mantelpiece, I could see nothing to connect them with the moorland desperadoes. There was a silver cigarette-box beside me, and I saw that it had been won by Percival Appleton, Esq., of the St Bede’s Club, in a golf tournament. I had to keep a firm hold of Peter Pienaar to prevent myself bolting out of that house.
在那间令人愉快的餐厅里，墙上挂着蚀刻画，壁炉架上方挂着一张围着围兜的老太太的照片，我看不出他们与荒野亡命之徒有什么联系。我旁边有一个银色香烟盒，我看到它是圣贝德俱乐部的珀西瓦尔·阿普尔顿先生在一场高尔夫锦标赛中赢得的。我必须牢牢抓住彼得·皮纳尔，防止自己逃出那所房子。

‘Well,’ said the old man politely, ‘are you reassured by your scrutiny, Sir?’
“那么，”老人礼貌地说，“先生，经过您的仔细检查，您放心了吗？”

I couldn’t find a word.
我找不到一个词。

‘I hope you’ll find it consistent with your duty to drop this ridiculous business. I make no complaint, but you’ll see how annoying it must be to respectable people.’
“我希望你会发现放弃这桩荒唐的事情是符合你的职责的。”我没有抱怨，但你会看到这对受人尊敬的人来说一定是多么烦人。

I shook my head.
我摇摇头。

‘O Lord,’ said the young man. ‘This is a bit too thick!’
“主啊，”年轻人说道。 “这有点太厚了！”

‘Do you propose to march us off to the police station?’ asked the plump one. ‘That might be the best way out of it, but I suppose you won’t be content with the local branch. I have the right to ask to see your warrant, but I don’t wish to cast any aspersions upon you. You are only doing your duty. But you’ll admit it’s horribly awkward. What do you propose to do?’
“你打算押送我们去警察局吗？”胖子问道。 “这可能是最好的解决办法，但我想你不会满足于当地的分支机构。我有权要求看你的逮捕令，但我不想对你进行任何诽谤。你只是在尽你的职责。但你会承认这非常尴尬。你打算做什么？

There was nothing to do except to call in my men and have them arrested, or to confess my blunder and clear out. I felt mesmerized by the whole place, by the air of obvious innocence not innocence merely, but frank honest bewilderment and concern in the three faces.
除了叫来我的人并逮捕他们，或者承认我的错误并撤离之外，别无他法。我对整个地方感到着迷，被那明显的纯真空气所迷住了，不仅仅是纯真，而是三张脸上坦率诚实的困惑和关心。

‘Oh, Peter Pienaar,’ I groaned inwardly, and for a moment I was very near damning myself for a fool and asking their pardon.
“哦，彼得·皮纳尔，”我在心里呻吟着，有那么一刻，我几乎要责怪自己是个傻瓜，并请求他们的原谅。

‘Meantime I vote we have a game of bridge,’ said the plump one. ‘It will give Mr Hannay time to think over things, and you know we have been wanting a fourth player. Do you play, Sir?’
“与此同时，我投票决定我们打一场桥牌，”胖子说道。 “这会给汉内先生思考事情的时间，你知道我们一直想要第四名球员。先生，你玩吗？

I accepted as if it had been an ordinary invitation at the club. The whole business had mesmerized me. We went into the smoking-room where a card-table was set out, and I was offered things to smoke and drink. I took my place at the table in a kind of dream. The window was open and the moon was flooding the cliffs and sea with a great tide of yellow light. There was moonshine, too, in my head. The three had recovered their composure, and were talking easily just the kind of slangy talk you will hear in any golf club-house. I must have cut a rum figure, sitting there knitting my brows with my eyes wandering.
我接受了，就好像这是俱乐部的一个普通邀请一样。整个事情让我着迷。我们走进吸烟室，那里摆着一张牌桌，有人给我提供了抽烟和喝酒的东西。我在梦中坐到了餐桌旁。窗户开着，月光洒满悬崖和大海，泛着黄光。我的脑子里也有月光。三人恢复了镇静，轻松地交谈着，就像在任何高尔夫俱乐部里都能听到的那种俚语。我一定是一副朗姆酒般的样子，坐在那儿皱起眉头，目光游移。

My partner was the young dark one. I play a fair hand at bridge, but I must have been rank bad that night. They saw that they had got me puzzled, and that put them more than ever at their ease. I kept looking at their faces, but they conveyed nothing to me. It was not that they looked different; they were different. I clung desperately to the words of Peter Pienaar.
我的搭档是那个年轻的黑人。我在桥牌上打得不错，但那天晚上我的排名一定很差。他们发现我的想法让我感到困惑，这让他们比以往任何时候都更加轻松。我一直看着他们的脸，但他们没有向我传达任何信息。并不是他们看起来不同；而是他们看起来不同。他们是不同的。我紧紧抓住彼得·皮纳尔的话不放。

Then something awoke me.
然后有件事叫醒了我。

The old man laid down his hand to light a cigar. He didn’t pick it up at once, but sat back for a moment in his chair, with his fingers tapping on his knees.
老人放下手来点燃雪茄。他没有立即拿起它，而是在椅子上坐了一会儿，手指敲着膝盖。

It was the movement I remembered when I had stood before him in the moorland farm, with the pistols of his servants behind me.
这是我记得的动作，当时我在沼泽农场里站在他面前，他的仆人的手枪在我身后。

A little thing, lasting only a second, and the odds were a thousand to one that I might have had my eyes on my cards at the time and missed it. But I didn’t, and, in a flash, the air seemed to clear. Some shadow lifted from my brain, and I was looking at the three men with full and absolute recognition.
一件小事，只持续一秒钟，而我当时注视着我的牌而错过的可能性是千分之一。但我没有，刹那间，空气似乎变得晴朗了。我脑子里的一些阴影消失了，我用完全、绝对的认可看着这三个人。

The clock on the mantelpiece struck ten o’clock.
壁炉架上的时钟敲响了十点。

The three faces seemed to change before my eyes and reveal their secrets. The young one was the murderer. Now I saw cruelty and ruthlessness, where before I had only seen good-humour. His knife, I made certain, had skewered Scudder to the floor. His kind had put the bullet in Karolides.
三张脸似乎在我眼前发生了变化，露出了他们的秘密。那个年轻人就是凶手。现在我看到了残酷和无情，而以前我只看到了幽默。我确信是他的刀把斯卡德刺在了地板上。他的同类把子弹射进了卡罗利德斯身上。

The plump man’s features seemed to dislimn, and form again, as I looked at them. He hadn’t a face, only a hundred masks that he could assume when he pleased. That chap must have been a superb actor. Perhaps he had been Lord Alloa of the night before; perhaps not; it didn’t matter. I wondered if he was the fellow who had first tracked Scudder, and left his card on him. Scudder had said he lisped, and I could imagine how the adoption of a lisp might add terror.
当我看着那个胖男人的时候，他的五官似乎消失了，又恢复了形状。他没有脸，只有一百个他可以随心所欲地戴上的面具。那家伙一定是一位出色的演员。也许他是前一天晚上的阿洛勋爵；也许他是阿洛勋爵。也许不是；没关系。我想知道他是否是第一个追踪斯卡德并留下名片的人。斯卡德说他口齿不清，我可以想象采用口齿不清会如何增加恐惧。

But the old man was the pick of the lot. He was sheer brain, icy, cool, calculating, as ruthless as a steam hammer. Now that my eyes were opened I wondered where I had seen the benevolence. His jaw was like chilled steel, and his eyes had the inhuman luminosity of a bird’s. I went on playing, and every second a greater hate welled up in my heart. It almost choked me, and I couldn’t answer when my partner spoke. Only a little longer could I endure their company.
但老人却是众人中的佼佼者。他是个纯粹的大脑，冰冷、冷静、精于算计，像蒸汽锤一样冷酷无情。现在我睁开眼睛，我不知道我在哪里看到了仁慈。他的下巴就像冰冷的钢铁，他的眼睛有着鸟儿般非人的光芒。我继续玩着，心里每一秒都涌起更大的仇恨。我几乎被噎住了，当我的搭档说话时我无法回答。我只能再忍受他们的陪伴了。

‘Whew! Bob! Look at the time,’ said the old man. ‘You’d better think about catching your train. Bob’s got to go to town tonight,’ he added, turning to me. The voice rang now as false as hell. I looked at the clock, and it was nearly half-past ten.
‘哇！鲍勃！看看时间。”老人说道。 “你最好考虑一下赶火车。鲍勃今晚必须进城，”他转向我补充道。现在这个声音听起来虚伪得要命。我看了看表，已经快十点半了。

‘I am afraid he must put off his journey,’ I said.
“恐怕他必须推迟行程了，”我说。

‘Oh, damn,’ said the young man. ‘I thought you had dropped that rot. I’ve simply got to go. You can have my address, and I’ll give any security you like.’
“哦，该死，”年轻人说。 “我以为你已经把那些烂事丢掉了。我得走了。你可以知道我的地址，我会提供你想要的任何安全保障。

‘No,’ I said, ‘you must stay.’
“不，”我说，“你必须留下来。”

At that I think they must have realized that the game was desperate. Their only chance had been to convince me that I was playing the fool, and that had failed. But the old man spoke again.
我想他们一定已经意识到这场比赛是绝望的。他们唯一的机会就是让我相信我在装傻，但那失败了。但老者又开口了。

‘I’ll go bail for my nephew. That ought to content you, Mr Hannay.’ Was it fancy, or did I detect some halt in the smoothness of that voice?
“我会为我的侄子保释。汉内先生，这应该让您满意。”这是否很奇特，或者我是否察觉到那声音的平稳有一些停顿？

There must have been, for as I glanced at him, his eyelids fell in that hawk-like hood which fear had stamped on my memory.
肯定是有的，因为当我瞥了他一眼时，他的眼皮垂了下来，像鹰一样的兜帽，恐惧已经在我的记忆中留下了印记。

I blew my whistle.
我吹响了口哨。

In an instant the lights were out. A pair of strong arms gripped me round the waist, covering the pockets in which a man might be expected to carry a pistol.
瞬间灯就灭了。一双有力的手臂抓住了我的腰，遮住了男人可能会携带手枪的口袋。

‘SCHNELL, FRANZ,’ cried a voice, ‘DAS BOOT, DAS BOOT!’ As it spoke I saw two of my fellows emerge on the moonlit lawn. The young dark man leapt for the window, was through it, and over the low fence before a hand could touch him. I grappled the old chap, and the room seemed to fill with figures. I saw the plump one collared, but my eyes were all for the out-of-doors, where Franz sped on over the road towards the railed entrance to the beach stairs. One man followed him, but he had no chance. The gate of the stairs locked behind the fugitive, and I stood staring, with my hands on the old boy’s throat, for such a time as a man might take to descend those steps to the sea.
“施内尔，弗朗茨，”一个声音喊道，“启动，启动！”当它说话时，我看到我的两个伙伴出现在月光下的草坪上。年轻的黑人男子跳向窗户，穿过窗户，在一只手碰到他之前越过低矮的栅栏。我抓住了这个老家伙，房间里似乎充满了人影。我看到那个胖乎乎的人戴着项圈，但我的眼睛全都盯着户外，弗兰茨沿着马路飞驰，朝海滩楼梯的栏杆入口走去。一个人跟着他，但他没有机会。楼梯的门在逃亡者身后锁上了，我站在那里，双手放在老男孩的喉咙上，凝视着一个人走下楼梯到海边的时间。

Suddenly my prisoner broke from me and flung himself on the wall. There was a click as if a lever had been pulled. Then came a low rumbling far, far below the ground, and through the window I saw a cloud of chalky dust pouring out of the shaft of the stairway.
突然，我的囚犯挣脱了我的束缚，扑到了墙上。咔哒一声，好像拉动了杠杆。然后，从地下很远很远的地方传来一声低沉的隆隆声，透过窗户，我看到一团白垩灰尘从楼梯的竖井里倾泻而出。

Someone switched on the light.
有人打开了灯。

The old man was looking at me with blazing eyes.
老人用炽热的眼睛看着我。

‘He is safe,’ he cried. ‘You cannot follow in time ... He is gone ... He has triumphed ... DER SCHWARZE STEIN IST IN DER SIEGESKRONE.’
“他很安全，”他喊道。 “你无法及时跟上……他走了……他已经胜利了……DER SCHWARZE STEIN IST IN DER SIEGESKRONE。”

There was more in those eyes than any common triumph. They had been hooded like a bird of prey, and now they flamed with a hawk’s pride. A white fanatic heat burned in them, and I realized for the first time the terrible thing I had been up against. This man was more than a spy; in his foul way he had been a patriot.
那双眼睛里蕴含着比任何普通胜利更多的东西。他们曾像猛禽一样戴着兜帽，现在却燃烧着鹰的骄傲。一股白色的狂热在他们身上燃烧，我第一次意识到我所面对的可怕的事情。这个人不仅仅是一名间谍，更是一名间谍。尽管他的行为是邪恶的，但他却是一位爱国者。

As the handcuffs clinked on his wrists I said my last word to him.
当手铐戴在他手腕上叮当作响时，我对他说了最后一句话。

‘I hope Franz will bear his triumph well. I ought to tell you that the ARIADNE for the last hour has been in our hands.’
“我希望弗朗茨能够好好地承受他的胜利。我应该告诉你，最后一个小时的阿里阿德涅号一直在我们手中。

Three weeks later, as all the world knows, we went to war. I joined the New Army the first week, and owing to my Matabele experience got a captain’s commission straight off. But I had done my best service, I think, before I put on khaki.
三周后，众所周知，我们爆发了战争。我第一周就加入了新军，并且由于我在马塔贝莱的经历，我立即获得了上尉的任命。但我认为，在穿上卡其色衣服之前，我已经尽了最大努力。