
The Three Musketeers
三个火枪手

By Alexandre Dumas
作者：大仲马

AUTHOR’S PREFACE
作者序言

In which it is proved that, notwithstanding their names’ ending in OS and IS, the heroes of the story which we are about to have the honor to relate to our readers have nothing mythological about them.
事实证明，尽管他们的名字以 OS 和 IS 结尾，但我们将有幸向读者讲述的故事中的英雄们并没有任何神话色彩。

A short time ago, while making researches in the Royal Library for my History of Louis XIV, I stumbled by chance upon the Memoirs of M. d’Artagnan, printed—as were most of the works of that period, in which authors could not tell the truth without the risk of a residence, more or less long, in the Bastille—at Amsterdam, by Pierre Rouge. The title attracted me; I took them home with me, with the permission of the guardian, and devoured them.
不久前，当我在皇家图书馆研究路易十四的历史时，我偶然发现了达达尼昂先生的回忆录，该回忆录已印刷，就像那个时期的大多数作品一样，其中作者无法说实话，而不需要冒或多或少长期居住在巴士底狱的风险——在阿姆斯特丹，作者：皮埃尔·鲁日。这个标题吸引了我；在监护人的允许下，我把它们带回家，然后吃掉了。

It is not my intention here to enter into an analysis of this curious work; and I shall satisfy myself with referring such of my readers as appreciate the pictures of the period to its pages. They will therein find portraits penciled by the hand of a master; and although these squibs may be, for the most part, traced upon the doors of barracks and the walls of cabarets, they will not find the likenesses of Louis XIII, Anne of Austria, Richelieu, Mazarin, and the courtiers of the period, less faithful than in the history of M. Anquetil.
我在这里无意对这部奇怪的作品进行分析。我将满足于将那些欣赏那个时期的图片的读者推荐给我的书页。他们会在其中找到出自大师之手的肖像画；尽管这些哑炮大部分都可以在军营的门和歌舞厅的墙壁上找到，但他们找不到路易十三、奥地利的安妮、黎塞留、马扎林和当时朝臣的肖像，更不用说比安克蒂尔先生的历史更忠实。

But, it is well known, what strikes the capricious mind of the poet is not always what affects the mass of readers. Now, while admiring, as others doubtless will admire, the details we have to relate, our main preoccupation concerned a matter to which no one before ourselves had given a thought.
但是，众所周知，触动诗人反复无常的心灵的东西并不总是能影响广大读者。现在，正如其他人无疑也会钦佩我们必须涉及的细节一样，我们的主要关注点是我们之前没有人考虑过的问题。

D’Artagnan relates that on his first visit to M. de Treville, captain of the king’s Musketeers, he met in the antechamber three young men, serving in the illustrious corps into which he was soliciting the honor of being received, bearing the names of Athos, Porthos, and Aramis.
达达尼昂说，他第一次拜访国王火枪手队长德特雷维尔先生时，在前厅遇到了三名年轻人，他们在著名的军团中服役，他正在争取受到接待的荣誉，他们的名字是阿托斯、波托斯和阿拉米斯。

We must confess these three strange names struck us; and it immediately occurred to us that they were but pseudonyms, under which d’Artagnan had disguised names perhaps illustrious, or else that the bearers of these borrowed names had themselves chosen them on the day in which, from caprice, discontent, or want of fortune, they had donned the simple Musketeer’s uniform.
我们必须承认这三个奇怪的名字让我们印象深刻；我们立即想到，它们不过是化名，达达尼昂用这些化名伪装了也许是显赫的名字，或者这些借用名字的持有者自己在那天出于任性、不满或缺乏而选择了它们。幸运的是，他们穿上了简单的火枪手制服。

From the moment we had no rest till we could find some trace in contemporary works of these extraordinary names which had so strongly awakened our curiosity.
从我们没有休息的那一刻起，直到我们在当代作品中找到这些非凡名字的踪迹，这些名字如此强烈地唤醒了我们的好奇心。

The catalogue alone of the books we read with this object would fill a whole chapter, which, although it might be very instructive, would certainly afford our readers but little amusement. It will suffice, then, to tell them that at the moment at which, discouraged by so many fruitless investigations, we were about to abandon our search, we at length found, guided by the counsels of our illustrious friend Paulin Paris, a manuscript in folio, endorsed 4772 or 4773, we do not recollect which, having for title, ‘Memoirs of the Comte de la Fere, Touching Some Events Which Passed in France Toward the End of the Reign of King Louis XIII and the Commencement of the Reign of King Louis XIV.’
仅凭我们以此为目的阅读的书籍的目录就可以占满一整章，尽管它可能很有启发性，但肯定不会给我们的读者带来什么乐趣。那么，只要告诉他们，就在我们因如此多无果的调查而灰心丧气、准备放弃我们的寻找的那一刻，在我们杰出的朋友保林·帕里斯的建议的指导下，我们终于找到了一份手稿，对开页，背书 4772 或 4773，我们不记得哪一本，标题是《拉费尔伯爵回忆录，触及法国国王路易十三统治末期和路易十三统治开始时发生的一些事件》路易十四国王。

It may be easily imagined how great was our joy when, in turning over this manuscript, our last hope, we found at the twentieth page the name of Athos, at the twenty-seventh the name of Porthos, and at the thirty-first the name of Aramis.
不难想象，当我们翻阅这份手稿时，我们最后的希望是，我们在第二十页找到了阿托斯的名字，在第二十七页找到了波托斯的名字，在第三十一页找到了阿托斯的名字，这是多么令人高兴。阿拉米斯的名字。

The discovery of a completely unknown manuscript at a period in which historical science is carried to such a high degree appeared almost miraculous. We hastened, therefore, to obtain permission to print it, with the view of presenting ourselves someday with the pack of others at the doors of the Academie des Inscriptions et Belles Lettres, if we should not succeed—a very probable thing, by the by—in gaining admission to the Academie Francaise with our own proper pack. This permission, we feel bound to say, was graciously granted; which compels us here to give a public contradiction to the slanderers who pretend that we live under a government but moderately indulgent to men of letters.
在历史科学达到如此高度的时期，发现一份完全未知的手稿几乎是一个奇迹。因此，我们急忙获得印刷它的许可，希望有一天，如果我们不成功的话，我们会和其他人一起出现在铭文与美术学院的门口——这是很可能的事情，由——以我们自己合适的方式获得法兰西学院的录取。我们不得不说，这一许可是被慷慨地授予的。这迫使我们在这里公开反驳那些诽谤者，他们假装我们生活在政府统治下，但对文人却有适度的宽容。

Now, this is the first part of this precious manuscript which we offer to our readers, restoring it to the title which belongs to it, and entering into an engagement that if (of which we have no doubt) this first part should obtain the success it merits, we will publish the second immediately.
现在，这是我们向读者提供的这份珍贵手稿的第一部分，将其恢复到属于它的标题，并达成协议，如果（对此我们毫不怀疑）第一部分应该获得成功如果值得的话，我们将立即发布第二个。

In the meanwhile, as the godfather is a second father, we beg the reader to lay to our account, and not to that of the Comte de la Fere, the pleasure or the ENNUI he may experience.
与此同时，由于教父是第二个父亲，我们请求读者将他可能经历的快乐或倦怠归咎于我们，而不是德拉费尔伯爵。

This being understood, let us proceed with our history.
了解了这一点，让我们继续我们的历史。

1 THE THREE PRESENTS OF D’ARTAGNAN THE ELDER
1 老达达尼昂的三件礼物

On the first Monday of the month of April, 1625, the market town of Meung, in which the author of ROMANCE OF THE ROSE was born, appeared to be in as perfect a state of revolution as if the Huguenots had just made a second La Rochelle of it. Many citizens, seeing the women flying toward the High Street, leaving their children crying at the open doors, hastened to don the cuirass, and supporting their somewhat uncertain courage with a musket or a partisan, directed their steps toward the hostelry of the Jolly Miller, before which was gathered, increasing every minute, a compact group, vociferous and full of curiosity.
1625 年 4 月的第一个星期一，《玫瑰罗曼史》的作者出生的集镇默恩 (Meung) 似乎正处于完美的革命状态，就好像胡格诺派刚刚进行了第二次革命一样。罗谢尔吧。许多市民看到妇女们飞向大街，把孩子们留在敞开的门口哭泣，赶紧穿上胸甲，用步枪或游击队员支撑着他们有些不确定的勇气，径直走向快乐米勒旅馆的旅馆。 ，前面聚集着，每一分钟都在增加，一个紧凑的群体，吵吵闹闹，充满好奇。

In those times panics were common, and few days passed without some city or other registering in its archives an event of this kind. There were nobles, who made war against each other; there was the king, who made war against the cardinal; there was Spain, which made war against the king. Then, in addition to these concealed or public, secret or open wars, there were robbers, mendicants, Huguenots, wolves, and scoundrels, who made war upon everybody. The citizens always took up arms readily against thieves, wolves or scoundrels, often against nobles or Huguenots, sometimes against the king, but never against cardinal or Spain. It resulted, then, from this habit that on the said first Monday of April, 1625, the citizens, on hearing the clamor, and seeing neither the red-and-yellow standard nor the livery of the Duc de Richelieu, rushed toward the hostel of the Jolly Miller. When arrived there, the cause of the hubbub was apparent to all.
在那个时代，恐慌很常见，几天过去了，没有一些城市或其他地方在其档案中记录此类事件。有贵族，互相争斗；国王与红衣主教交战。还有西班牙，它向国王发动了战争。然后，除了这些隐蔽的或公开的、秘密的或公开的战争之外，还有强盗、乞丐、胡格诺派、狼和恶棍，他们向所有人发动战争。公民总是随时拿起武器对抗小偷、狼或恶棍，通常是针对贵族或胡格诺教徒，有时是针对国王，但从不反对红衣主教或西班牙。于是，由于这个习惯，在所谓的 1625 年 4 月的第一个星期一，市民们一听到喧闹声，既没有看到红黄旗，也没有看到黎塞留公爵的制服，就冲向旅馆。快乐米勒的。当到达那里时，喧闹的原因是众所周知的。

A young man—we can sketch his portrait at a dash. Imagine to yourself a Don Quixote of eighteen; a Don Quixote without his corselet, without his coat of mail, without his cuisses; a Don Quixote clothed in a woolen doublet, the blue color of which had faded into a nameless shade between lees of wine and a heavenly azure; face long and brown; high cheek bones, a sign of sagacity; the maxillary muscles enormously developed, an infallible sign by which a Gascon may always be detected, even without his cap—and our young man wore a cap set off with a sort of feather; the eye open and intelligent; the nose hooked, but finely chiseled. Too big for a youth, too small for a grown man, an experienced eye might have taken him for a farmer’s son upon a journey had it not been for the long sword which, dangling from a leather baldric, hit against the calves of its owner as he walked, and against the rough side of his steed when he was on horseback.
一个年轻人——我们可以一下子画出他的肖像。想象一下自己是十八岁的堂吉诃德；没有胸甲、没有铠甲、没有铠甲的堂吉诃德；唐吉诃德穿着羊毛紧身衣，蓝色在酒糟和天堂般的蔚蓝之间褪成了无名的阴影；脸长，呈棕色；高颧骨，是睿智的标志；上颌肌肉发达，这是一个可靠的标志，即使没有戴帽子，也总能认出加斯科尼人——我们的年轻人戴着一顶用某种羽毛衬托的帽子；眼睛开阔，聪明；鼻子呈鹰钩状，但轮廓分明。对于年轻人来说太大了，对于成年人来说又太小了，如果不是皮肩上挂着的长剑击中主人的小腿，经验丰富的人可能会把他当作一个正在旅行的农民的儿子。当他走路时，以及当他骑在马背上时，靠在他粗糙的马身上。

For our young man had a steed which was the observed of all observers. It was a Bearn pony, from twelve to fourteen years old, yellow in his hide, without a hair in his tail, but not without windgalls on his legs, which, though going with his head lower than his knees, rendering a martingale quite unnecessary, contrived nevertheless to perform his eight leagues a day. Unfortunately, the qualities of this horse were so well concealed under his strange-colored hide and his unaccountable gait, that at a time when everybody was a connoisseur in horseflesh, the appearance of the aforesaid pony at Meung—which place he had entered about a quarter of an hour before, by the gate of Beaugency—produced an unfavorable feeling, which extended to his rider.
因为我们的年轻人有一匹所有观察者都在观察的马。那是一匹贝恩小马，十二岁到十四岁，皮肤呈黄色，尾巴上没有毛，但腿上也有风瘿，虽然它的头低于膝盖，但鞅完全没有必要。尽管如此，他还是设法每天完成八个联赛。不幸的是，这匹马的品质被它那奇怪的颜色皮毛和莫名其妙的步态掩盖得如此之好，以至于在每个人都是马肉鉴赏家的时候，上述小马的出现在默恩——他进入这个地方大约有一段时间了。一刻钟前，在博让西门口——产生了一种不利的感觉，这种感觉也蔓延到了他的骑手身上。

And this feeling had been more painfully perceived by young d’Artagnan—for so was the Don Quixote of this second Rosinante named—from his not being able to conceal from himself the ridiculous appearance that such a steed gave him, good horseman as he was. He had sighed deeply, therefore, when accepting the gift of the pony from M. d’Artagnan the elder. He was not ignorant that such a beast was worth at least twenty livres; and the words which had accompanied the present were above all price.
年轻的达达尼昂更痛苦地感受到了这种感觉——因为第二个罗西南特的堂吉诃德就是这样命名的——因为他无法向自己隐瞒这样一匹骏马给他带来的可笑外表，尽管他是一位优秀的骑手。 。因此，当他接受老达达尼昂先生赠送的小马礼物时，他深深地叹了口气。他并非不知道这样一头野兽至少值二十里弗。伴随着礼物而来的话语是最有价值的。

‘My son,’ said the old Gascon gentleman, in that pure Bearn PATOIS of which Henry IV could never rid himself, ‘this horse was born in the house of your father about thirteen years ago, and has remained in it ever since, which ought to make you love it. Never sell it; allow it to die tranquilly and honorably of old age, and if you make a campaign with it, take as much care of it as you would of an old servant. At court, provided you have ever the honor to go there,’ continued M. d’Artagnan the elder, ‘—an honor to which, remember, your ancient nobility gives you the right—sustain worthily your name of gentleman, which has been worthily borne by your ancestors for five hundred years, both for your own sake and the sake of those who belong to you. By the latter I mean your relatives and friends. Endure nothing from anyone except Monsieur the Cardinal and the king. It is by his courage, please observe, by his courage alone, that a gentleman can make his way nowadays. Whoever hesitates for a second perhaps allows the bait to escape which during that exact second fortune held out to him. You are young. You ought to be brave for two reasons: the first is that you are a Gascon, and the second is that you are my son. Never fear quarrels, but seek adventures. I have taught you how to handle a sword; you have thews of iron, a wrist of steel. Fight on all occasions. Fight the more for duels being forbidden, since consequently there is twice as much courage in fighting. I have nothing to give you, my son, but fifteen crowns, my horse, and the counsels you have just heard. Your mother will add to them a recipe for a certain balsam, which she had from a Bohemian and which has the miraculous virtue of curing all wounds that do not reach the heart. Take advantage of all, and live happily and long. I have but one word to add, and that is to propose an example to you— not mine, for I myself have never appeared at court, and have only taken part in religious wars as a volunteer; I speak of Monsieur de Treville, who was formerly my neighbor, and who had the honor to be, as a child, the play-fellow of our king, Louis XIII, whom God preserve! Sometimes their play degenerated into battles, and in these battles the king was not always the stronger. The blows which he received increased greatly his esteem and friendship for Monsieur de Treville. Afterward, Monsieur de Treville fought with others: in his first journey to Paris, five times; from the death of the late king till the young one came of age, without reckoning wars and sieges, seven times; and from that date up to the present day, a hundred times, perhaps! So that in spite of edicts, ordinances, and decrees, there he is, captain of the Musketeers; that is to say, chief of a legion of Caesars, whom the king holds in great esteem and whom the cardinal dreads—he who dreads nothing, as it is said. Still further, Monsieur de Treville gains ten thousand crowns a year; he is therefore a great noble. He began as you begin. Go to him with this letter, and make him your model in order that you may do as he has done.’
“我的孩子，”加斯科尼老绅士用亨利四世无法摆脱的纯正贝恩方言说道，“这匹马大约十三年前出生在你父亲的房子里，从那时起就一直留在家里，应该让你喜欢它。永远不要卖掉它；让它在老年时平静而光荣地死去，如果你用它去打仗，要像照顾一个老仆人一样照顾它。在宫廷里，只要你有幸去那里，”老达达尼昂先生继续说道，“记住，你们古老的贵族赋予你这种荣誉的权利，值得维护你的绅士名声，这一直是你的荣幸。”你们的祖先值得承受五百年的苦难，这既是为了你们自己，也是为了那些属于你们的人。我所说的后者是指你的亲戚和朋友。除了红衣主教先生和国王之外，不要容忍任何人。现在的君子就是靠着他的勇气，请看，单靠着他的勇气，就能取得成功。谁若犹豫片刻，也许就会让诱饵逃脱，而正是在这第二次幸运中，诱饵向他伸出了援手。你很年轻。你应该勇敢，有两个原因：第一是你是加斯科涅人，第二是你是我的儿子。不要害怕争吵，而要寻求冒险。我已经教过你如何使用剑；你有钢铁般的意志，钢铁般的手腕。在任何场合都要战斗。为禁止决斗而进行更多的战斗，因为这样战斗的勇气就会增加一倍。我没有什么可以给你的，我的孩子，除了十五克朗、我的马和你刚才听到的忠告之外。你的母亲会给它们添加某种香脂的配方，这是她从波西米亚人那里得到的，它具有治愈所有未触及心脏的伤口的神奇功效。 充分利用一切，幸福长寿。我只有一句话要补充，那就是给你们举一个例子——不是我的，因为我本人从未出庭，只是作为志愿者参加过宗教战争；我说的是德·特雷维尔先生，他以前是我的邻居，小时候有幸成为我们国王路易十三的玩伴，上帝保佑他！有时他们的游戏会演变为战斗，而在这些战斗中，国王并不总是更强。他受到的打击大大增加了他对德特雷维尔先生的尊敬和友谊。此后，德特雷维尔先生与其他人发生争斗：第一次去巴黎时，五次；从已故国王去世到年轻国王成年为止，不计战争和围困，有七次；从那天到今天，也许有一百次了！因此，尽管有法令、条例和法令，他仍然是火枪手的队长；也就是说，凯撒军团的首领，国王非常尊敬他，而红衣主教却畏惧他——正如人们所说，他什么都不畏惧。此外，德·特雷维尔先生每年还能获得一万克朗；因此他是一位伟大的贵族。他开始就像你开始一样。带着这封信去找他，让他成为你的榜样，这样你就可以像他那样做。’

Upon which M. d’Artagnan the elder girded his own sword round his son, kissed him tenderly on both cheeks, and gave him his benediction.
达达尼昂先生随即将自己的剑挂在儿子身上，温柔地亲吻他的双颊，并向他致以祝福。

On leaving the paternal chamber, the young man found his mother, who was waiting for him with the famous recipe of which the counsels we have just repeated would necessitate frequent employment. The adieux were on this side longer and more tender than they had been on the other—not that M. d’Artagnan did not love his son, who was his only offspring, but M. d’Artagnan was a man, and he would have considered it unworthy of a man to give way to his feelings; whereas Mme. d’Artagnan was a woman, and still more, a mother. She wept abundantly; and—let us speak it to the praise of M. d’Artagnan the younger—notwithstanding the efforts he made to remain firm, as a future Musketeer ought, nature prevailed, and he shed many tears, of which he succeeded with great difficulty in concealing the half.
离开父亲的房间后，年轻人找到了他的母亲，她正在拿着著名的食谱等他，我们刚才重复的忠告将需要经常使用该食谱。这边的告别时间比那边的告别时间更长，也更温柔——并不是说达达尼昂先生不爱他的儿子，他是他唯一的后代，但达达尼昂先生是一个男人，他会的。认为一个人不值得屈服于自己的感情；而女士。达达尼昂是一位女性，更是一位母亲。她哭得很伤心。而且——让我们赞扬一下小达达尼昂先生吧——尽管他努力保持坚定，就像未来的火枪手应该做的那样，但天性占了上风，他流下了很多眼泪，他好不容易才成功地流下了眼泪。隐藏一半。

The same day the young man set forward on his journey, furnished with the three paternal gifts, which consisted, as we have said, of fifteen crowns, the horse, and the letter for M. de Treville— the counsels being thrown into the bargain.
同一天，年轻人带着三件父亲的礼物出发了，正如我们所说的，其中包括十五克朗、一匹马和给德·特雷维尔先生的信——这些忠告被投入讨价还价。 。

With such a VADE MECUM d’Artagnan was morally and physically an exact copy of the hero of Cervantes, to whom we so happily compared him when our duty of an historian placed us under the necessity of sketching his portrait. Don Quixote took windmills for giants, and sheep for armies; d’Artagnan took every smile for an insult, and every look as a provocation—whence it resulted that from Tarbes to Meung his fist was constantly doubled, or his hand on the hilt of his sword; and yet the fist did not descend upon any jaw, nor did the sword issue from its scabbard. It was not that the sight of the wretched pony did not excite numerous smiles on the countenances of passers-by; but as against the side of this pony rattled a sword of respectable length, and as over this sword gleamed an eye rather ferocious than haughty, these passers-by repressed their hilarity, or if hilarity prevailed over prudence, they endeavored to laugh only on one side, like the masks of the ancients. D’Artagnan, then, remained majestic and intact in his susceptibility, till he came to this unlucky city of Meung.
有了这样的瓦德·梅库姆·达达尼昂，无论在道德上还是身体上，都是塞万提斯英雄的精确复制品，当我们作为历史学家的职责使我们有必要描绘他的肖像时，我们非常高兴地将他与他进行比较。堂吉诃德将风车视为巨人，将羊视为军队。达达尼昂把每一个微笑都视为一种侮辱，每一个眼神都视为一种挑衅——因此，从塔布到默恩，他的拳头不断地握成双拳，或者把手放在剑柄上。然而，拳头并没有落在任何人的下巴上，剑也没有从剑鞘中射出。看到这匹可怜的小马，路过的人们脸上都露出了笑容。但是，当这匹小马的侧面放着一把相当长的剑时，当这把剑上闪烁着一只凶猛而不是傲慢的眼睛时，这些路人压抑了他们的欢笑，或者如果欢闹压倒了谨慎，他们只努力笑一个侧面，就像古人的面具一样。达达尼昂一直保持着威严和易感性，直到他来到了这座不幸的默恩城。

But there, as he was alighting from his horse at the gate of the Jolly Miller, without anyone—host, waiter, or hostler—coming to hold his stirrup or take his horse, d’Artagnan spied, though an open window on the ground floor, a gentleman, well-made and of good carriage, although of rather a stern countenance, talking with two persons who appeared to listen to him with respect. d’Artagnan fancied quite naturally, according to his custom, that he must be the object of their conversation, and listened. This time d’Artagnan was only in part mistaken; he himself was not in question, but his horse was. The gentleman appeared to be enumerating all his qualities to his auditors; and, as I have said, the auditors seeming to have great deference for the narrator, they every moment burst into fits of laughter. Now, as a half-smile was sufficient to awaken the irascibility of the young man, the effect produced upon him by this vociferous mirth may be easily imagined.
但是，当他在欢乐磨坊门口下马时，没有任何人——主人、侍者或马夫——来扶住他的马镫或牵走他的马，达达尼昂透过地上一扇开着的窗户发现了这一点。地板上有一位绅士，身材匀称，举止得体，尽管表情相当严肃，正在与两个人交谈，两个人似乎很尊重地听他说话。达达尼昂很自然地认为，按照他的习惯，他一定是他们谈话的对象，于是就听着。这次达达尼昂只错了一部分。他本人没有问题，但他的马有问题。这位绅士似乎正在向听众列举他所有的品质。正如我所说，听众们似乎对叙述者非常尊重，他们每时每刻都会爆发出阵阵笑声。现在，一个半微笑就足以唤醒年轻人的暴躁情绪，这种大声的欢笑对他产生的影响是很容易想象的。

Nevertheless, d’Artagnan was desirous of examining the appearance of this impertinent personage who ridiculed him. He fixed his haughty eye upon the stranger, and perceived a man of from forty to forty-five years of age, with black and piercing eyes, pale complexion, a strongly marked nose, and a black and well-shaped mustache. He was dressed in a doublet and hose of a violet color, with aiguillettes of the same color, without any other ornaments than the customary slashes, through which the shirt appeared. This doublet and hose, though new, were creased, like traveling clothes for a long time packed in a portmanteau. d’Artagnan made all these remarks with the rapidity of a most minute observer, and doubtless from an instinctive feeling that this stranger was destined to have a great influence over his future life.
尽管如此，达达尼昂还是想看看这个嘲笑他的无礼人物的外表。他用傲慢的目光注视着这个陌生人，发现这是一个四十岁到四十五岁之间的男人，双目漆黑而锐利，肤色苍白，鼻子轮廓分明，小胡子又黑又整齐。他穿着紫罗兰色的上衣和长筒袜，戴着同样颜色的肩章，除了衬衫上常见的斜线外，没有任何其他装饰。这件紧身上衣和长筒袜虽然是新的，但已经皱巴巴的，就像长期装在手提包里的旅行服一样。达达尼昂以最敏锐的观察者的速度说出了所有这些话，毫无疑问是出于一种本能的感觉，这个陌生人注定会对他未来的生活产生巨大的影响。

Now, as at the moment in which d’Artagnan fixed his eyes upon the gentleman in the violet doublet, the gentleman made one of his most knowing and profound remarks respecting the Bearnese pony, his two auditors laughed even louder than before, and he himself, though contrary to his custom, allowed a pale smile (if I may allowed to use such an expression) to stray over his countenance. This time there could be no doubt; d’Artagnan was really insulted. Full, then, of this conviction, he pulled his cap down over his eyes, and endeavoring to copy some of the court airs he had picked up in Gascony among young traveling nobles, he advanced with one hand on the hilt of his sword and the other resting on his hip. Unfortunately, as he advanced, his anger increased at every step; and instead of the proper and lofty speech he had prepared as a prelude to his challenge, he found nothing at the tip of his tongue but a gross personality, which he accompanied with a furious gesture.
现在，就在达达尼昂将目光投向这位身穿紫罗兰紧身衣的绅士的那一刻，这位绅士对贝内塞小马发表了他最有见地、最深刻的评论之一，他的两个听众笑得比以前更大声了，他自己尽管与他的习惯相反，他的脸上却露出了苍白的微笑（如果我可以允许使用这样的表情的话）。这一次，毫无疑问了；达达尼昂确实受到了侮辱。于是，他深信这一点，把帽子拉低遮住了眼睛，努力模仿他在加斯科涅与年轻的旅行贵族中学到的一些宫廷风范，他一只手放在剑柄上，一只手向前走去。另一个靠在他的臀部。不幸的是，随着他的前行，他的怒火也一步步增加。他并没有准备好作为挑战前奏的恰当而崇高的演讲，而是在他的舌尖上发现了一种粗俗的个性，并伴随着愤怒的手势。

‘I say, sir, you sir, who are hiding yourself behind that shutter—yes, you, sir, tell me what you are laughing at, and we will laugh together!’
“我说，先生，你先生，你把自己藏在百叶窗后面——是的，你，先生，告诉我你在笑什么，我们会一起笑！”

The gentleman raised his eyes slowly from the nag to his cavalier, as if he required some time to ascertain whether it could be to him that such strange reproaches were addressed; then, when he could not possibly entertain any doubt of the matter, his eyebrows slightly bent, and with an accent of irony and insolence impossible to be described, he replied to d’Artagnan, ‘I was not speaking to you, sir.’
绅士慢慢地把目光从那匹马转向他的骑士，仿佛他需要一些时间来确定这种奇怪的责备是否是针对他的。然后，当他无法对此事产生任何怀疑时，他的眉毛微微弯起，语气中带着难以形容的讽刺和傲慢，他对达达尼昂回答道：“我不是在对你说话，先生。”

‘But I am speaking to you!’ replied the young man, additionally exasperated with this mixture of insolence and good manners, of politeness and scorn.
“但我是在跟你说话！”年轻人回答道，他还对这种傲慢与礼貌、礼貌与轻蔑的混合体感到恼怒。

The stranger looked at him again with a slight smile, and retiring from the window, came out of the hostelry with a slow step, and placed himself before the horse, within two paces of d’Artagnan. His quiet manner and the ironical expression of his countenance redoubled the mirth of the persons with whom he had been talking, and who still remained at the window.
陌生人再次微笑地看了他一眼，然后从窗边退出，迈着缓慢的步伐走出旅馆，来到马前，距离达达尼昂不到两步。他安静的举止和脸上讽刺的表情，使那些一直在与他交谈的人以及仍然留在窗前的人更加高兴。

D’Artagnan, seeing him approach, drew his sword a foot out of the scabbard.
达达尼昂看到他走近，就把剑从剑鞘中拔出一英尺。

‘This horse is decidedly, or rather has been in his youth, a buttercup,’ resumed the stranger, continuing the remarks he had begun, and addressing himself to his auditors at the window, without paying the least attention to the exasperation of d’Artagnan, who, however placed himself between him and them. ‘It is a color very well known in botany, but till the present time very rare among horses.’
“这匹马无疑是一匹毛茛，或者更确切地说，在它年轻时一直是一匹毛茛，”陌生人继续说道，继续他已经开始的评论，并向窗外的听众讲话，丝毫没有注意到德的恼怒。阿塔格南，然而，他将自己置于他和他们之间。 “这种颜色在植物学中非常出名，但迄今为止在马匹中非常罕见。”

‘There are people who laugh at the horse that would not dare to laugh at the master,’ cried the young emulator of the furious Treville.
“有些人嘲笑马，却不敢嘲笑主人。”愤怒的特雷维尔的年轻模仿者喊道。

‘I do not often laugh, sir,’ replied the stranger, ‘as you may perceive by the expression of my countenance; but nevertheless I retain the privilege of laughing when I please.’
“先生，我不常笑，”陌生人回答道，“你可以从我的表情看出这一点。但尽管如此，我仍保留随心所欲地笑的特权。”

‘And I,’ cried d’Artagnan, ‘will allow no man to laugh when it displeases me!’
“而我，”达达尼昂喊道，“当我不高兴时，我不会允许任何人笑！”

‘Indeed, sir,’ continued the stranger, more calm than ever; ‘well, that is perfectly right!’ and turning on his heel, was about to re-enter the hostelry by the front gate, beneath which d’Artagnan on arriving had observed a saddled horse.
“确实如此，先生，”陌生人继续说道，他比以前更加平静了。 “嗯，完全正确！”他转身，正要从前门重新进入旅馆，达达尼昂到达时发现门下有一匹鞍马。

But, d’Artagnan was not of a character to allow a man to escape him thus who had the insolence to ridicule him. He drew his sword entirely from the scabbard, and followed him, crying, ‘Turn, turn, Master Joker, lest I strike you behind!’
但是，达达尼昂的性格不会允许一个如此无礼地嘲笑他的人逃脱他的追捕。他把剑完全从剑鞘中拔出来，跟在他身后，一边喊道：“转转，转转，小丑大师，免得我从背后攻击你！”

‘Strike me!’ said the other, turning on his heels, and surveying the young man with as much astonishment as contempt. ‘Why, my good fellow, you must be mad!’ Then, in a suppressed tone, as if speaking to himself, ‘This is annoying,’ continued he. ‘What a godsend this would be for his Majesty, who is seeking everywhere for brave fellows to recruit for his Musketeers!’
“打我！”另一个说着，转过身来，用既惊讶又轻蔑的目光打量着这个年轻人。 “哎呀，我的好朋友，你一定是疯了！”然后，他用压抑的语气，仿佛自言自语，“这很烦人，”他继续说道。 “这对国王陛下来说是多么天赐之物啊，他正在到处寻找勇敢的伙伴来招募他的火枪手！”

He had scarcely finished, when d’Artagnan made such a furious lunge at him that if he had not sprung nimbly backward, it is probable he would have jested for the last time. The stranger, then perceiving that the matter went beyond raillery, drew his sword, saluted his adversary, and seriously placed himself on guard. But at the same moment, his two auditors, accompanied by the host, fell upon d’Artagnan with sticks, shovels and tongs. This caused so rapid and complete a diversion from the attack that d’Artagnan’s adversary, while the latter turned round to face this shower of blows, sheathed his sword with the same precision, and instead of an actor, which he had nearly been, became a spectator of the fight—a part in which he acquitted himself with his usual impassiveness, muttering, nevertheless, ‘A plague upon these Gascons! Replace him on his orange horse, and let him begone!’
他话音刚落，达达尼昂就猛烈地向他猛扑过来，要不是他敏捷地向后一跳，很可能他就要开最后一次玩笑了。陌生人意识到事情已经超出了开玩笑的范围，便拔出剑，向对手敬礼，并严肃地做好了戒备。但与此同时，他的两名旁听者在主人的陪同下，拿着棍棒、铲子和钳子向达达尼昂扑来。这使得达达尼昂的对手迅速而完全地转移了攻击方向，而后者转身面对这如雨般的攻击，却以同样的精确度收剑入鞘，他不再是一个演员，而他几乎已经成为了演员。他是这场战斗的旁观者——在这个角色中，他表现出了一贯的冷漠态度，尽管如此，他还是嘟囔道：“加斯科尼人遭受了瘟疫！”让他骑上橙色的马，然后让他走吧！”

‘Not before I have killed you, poltroon!’ cried d’Artagnan, making the best face possible, and never retreating one step before his three assailants, who continued to shower blows upon him.
“在我杀了你之前，臭小子！”达达尼昂喊道，尽可能地摆出一副最好的表情，在三个袭击者面前一步也不退缩，他们继续对他拳打脚踢。

‘Another gasconade!’ murmured the gentleman. ‘By my honor, these Gascons are incorrigible! Keep up the dance, then, since he will have it so. When he is tired, he will perhaps tell us that he has had enough of it.’
“再来一杯加斯科纳德！”这位绅士低声说道。 “以我的名誉来说，这些加斯科涅人是不可救药的！”那么，继续跳舞吧，因为他会这么做的。当他累了的时候，他也许会告诉我们他已经受够了。

But the stranger knew not the headstrong personage he had to do with; d’Artagnan was not the man ever to cry for quarter. The fight was therefore prolonged for some seconds; but at length d’Artagnan dropped his sword, which was broken in two pieces by the blow of a stick. Another blow full upon his forehead at the same moment brought him to the ground, covered with blood and almost fainting.
但这个陌生人不知道他所面对的是一个任性的人物。达达尼昂不是一个会求饶的人。战斗因此延长了几秒钟。但达达尼昂最终丢下了剑，剑被棍子一击折成了两截。与此同时，他的额头又挨了一记重拳，把他打倒在地，浑身是血，几乎昏厥过去。

It was at this moment that people came flocking to the scene of action from all sides. The host, fearful of consequences, with the help of his servants carried the wounded man into the kitchen, where some trifling attentions were bestowed upon him.
就在这时，人们从四面八方涌到了活动现场。主人担心后果，在仆人的帮助下将伤者抬进厨房，在那里对他进行了一些照顾。

As to the gentleman, he resumed his place at the window, and surveyed the crowd with a certain impatience, evidently annoyed by their remaining undispersed.
至于那位绅士，他又回到了窗边的位置，有些不耐烦地打量着人群，显然对他们没有散去感到恼火。

‘Well, how is it with this madman?’ exclaimed he, turning round as the noise of the door announced the entrance of the host, who came in to inquire if he was unhurt.
“这个疯子怎么样了？”他惊呼道，当门声宣布主人进来时，他转过身来，主人进来询问他是否受伤。

‘Your excellency is safe and sound?’ asked the host.
“阁下平安无事吗？”主人问道。

‘Oh, yes! Perfectly safe and sound, my good host; and I wish to know what has become of our young man.’
'哦是的！我的好主人，平安无事；我想知道我们的年轻人怎么样了。

‘He is better,’ said the host, ‘he fainted quite away.’
“他好多了，”主人说，“他已经晕过去了。”

‘Indeed!’ said the gentleman.
“确实如此！”绅士说道。

‘But before he fainted, he collected all his strength to challenge you, and to defy you while challenging you.’
“但他在晕倒之前，却是用尽全力来挑战你，并且一边挑战你，一边反抗你。”

‘Why, this fellow must be the devil in person!’ cried the stranger.
“哎呀，这个家伙一定是魔鬼本人！”陌生人叫道。

‘Oh, no, your Excellency, he is not the devil,’ replied the host, with a grin of contempt; ‘for during his fainting we rummaged his valise and found nothing but a clean shirt and eleven crowns— which however, did not prevent his saying, as he was fainting, that if such a thing had happened in Paris, you should have cause to repent of it at a later period.’
“哦，不，阁下，他不是魔鬼，”主人回答道，脸上带着轻蔑的笑容。 “因为在他昏倒期间，我们翻遍了他的手提箱，除了一件干净的衬衫和十一个王冠之外什么也没找到——然而，这并没有阻止他在昏倒时说，如果这样的事情发生在巴黎，你应该有理由悔改稍后再说。

‘Then,’ said the stranger coolly, ‘he must be some prince in disguise.’
“那么，”陌生人冷冷地说，“他一定是某个乔装打扮的王子。”

‘I have told you this, good sir,’ resumed the host, ‘in order that you may be on your guard.’
“我告诉你这些，好先生，”主人继续说道，“是为了让你保持警惕。”

‘Did he name no one in his passion?’
“他没有说出他所热衷的人的名字吗？”

‘Yes; he struck his pocket and said, ‘We shall see what Monsieur de Treville will think of this insult offered to his protege.’’
'是的;他摸了摸口袋，说道：“我们看看德·特雷维尔先生会如何看待对他的门徒的这种侮辱。”

‘Monsieur de Treville?’ said the stranger, becoming attentive, ‘he put his hand upon his pocket while pronouncing the name of Monsieur de Treville? Now, my dear host, while your young man was insensible, you did not fail, I am quite sure, to ascertain what that pocket contained. What was there in it?’
“德·特雷维尔先生？”陌生人变得专注起来，“他把手放在口袋里，同时念出德·特雷维尔先生的名字？现在，我亲爱的主人，虽然你的年轻人失去了知觉，但我确信你一定能查明那个口袋里装着什么。里面有什么？

‘A letter addressed to Monsieur de Treville, captain of the Musketeers.’
“一封写给火枪手队长德特雷维尔先生的信。”

‘Indeed!’
'的确！'

‘Exactly as I have the honor to tell your Excellency.’
“正如我有幸告诉阁下的那样。”

The host, who was not endowed with great perspicacity, did not observe the expression which his words had given to the physiognomy of the stranger. The latter rose from the front of the window, upon the sill of which he had leaned with his elbow, and knitted his brow like a man disquieted.
主人的洞察力不强，没有观察到他的话对陌生人的相貌的影响。后者从窗前站起身来，他的胳膊肘靠在窗台上，皱起眉头，像个不安的人。

‘The devil!’ murmured he, between his teeth. ‘Can Treville have set this Gascon upon me? He is very young; but a sword thrust is a sword thrust, whatever be the age of him who gives it, and a youth is less to be suspected than an older man,’ and the stranger fell into a reverie which lasted some minutes. ‘A weak obstacle is sometimes sufficient to overthrow a great design.
“见鬼！”他从牙缝里低声说道。 “特雷维尔能把这个加斯科尼人放在我身上吗？他很年轻；但刺剑就是刺剑，无论刺剑者的年龄如何，年轻人比年长的人更值得怀疑。”陌生人陷入了持续几分钟的沉思。 “有时一个微弱的障碍就足以推翻一个伟大的设计。

‘Host,’ said he, ‘could you not contrive to get rid of this frantic boy for me? In conscience, I cannot kill him; and yet,’ added he, with a coldly menacing expression, ‘he annoys me. Where is he?’
“主人，”他说，“你能不能帮我除掉这个疯狂的男孩吗？凭良心来说，我不能杀他；然而，”他带着冷酷的威胁表情补充道，“他让我很恼火。他在哪里？'

‘In my wife’s chamber, on the first flight, where they are dressing his wounds.’
“在我妻子的房间里，在第一趟航班上，他们正在那里包扎他的伤口。”

‘His things and his bag are with him? Has he taken off his doublet?’
“他的东西和包都在他身边吗？”他脱下紧身上衣了吗？

‘On the contrary, everything is in the kitchen. But if he annoys you, this young fool—‘
“相反，一切都在厨房里。但如果他惹恼了你，这个年轻的傻瓜——”

‘To be sure he does. He causes a disturbance in your hostelry, which respectable people cannot put up with. Go; make out my bill and notify my servant.’
“他当然知道。”他在你的宿舍里制造了骚乱，这是受人尊敬的人无法忍受的。去;开出我的账单并通知我的仆人。

‘What, monsieur, will you leave us so soon?’
“什么，先生，您这么快就要离开我们了吗？”

‘You know that very well, as I gave my order to saddle my horse. Have they not obeyed me?’
“你很清楚这一点，因为我下令给我的马配鞍。难道他们不听我的话吗？

‘It is done; as your Excellency may have observed, your horse is in the great gateway, ready saddled for your departure.’
‘已经完成了；正如阁下可能已经观察到的那样，您的马已经停在大门上，准备好准备出发了。

‘That is well; do as I have directed you, then.’
‘那就好；那么就按照我指示你的去做吧。

‘What the devil!’ said the host to himself. ‘Can he be afraid of this boy?’ But an imperious glance from the stranger stopped him short; he bowed humbly and retired.
“见鬼了！”主人自言自语道。 “他会害怕这个男孩吗？”但是陌生人的一个傲慢的眼神让他停了下来。他谦卑地鞠了一躬，然后退了出去。

‘It is not necessary for Milady* to be seen by this fellow,’ continued the stranger. ‘She will soon pass; she is already late. I had better get on horseback, and go and meet her. I should like, however, to know what this letter addressed to Treville contains.’
“米莱迪*没必要被这个家伙看见，”陌生人继续说道。 ‘她很快就会过去；她已经迟到了。我最好骑马去见她。然而，我想知道这封写给特雷维尔的信包含什么内容。

*We are well aware that this term, milady, is only properly used when followed by a family name. But we find it thus in the manuscript, and we do not choose to take upon ourselves to alter it.
*我们很清楚，“milady”这个词只有在后面跟有姓氏时才能正确使用。但我们在手稿中发现了这样的内容，并且我们不选择自行修改它。

And the stranger, muttering to himself, directed his steps toward the kitchen.
陌生人一边自言自语，一边大步朝厨房走去。

In the meantime, the host, who entertained no doubt that it was the presence of the young man that drove the stranger from his hostelry, re-ascended to his wife’s chamber, and found d’Artagnan just recovering his senses. Giving him to understand that the police would deal with him pretty severely for having sought a quarrel with a great lord—for the opinion of the host the stranger could be nothing less than a great lord—he insisted that notwithstanding his weakness d’Artagnan should get up and depart as quickly as possible. D’Artagnan, half stupefied, without his doublet, and with his head bound up in a linen cloth, arose then, and urged by the host, began to descend the stairs; but on arriving at the kitchen, the first thing he saw was his antagonist talking calmly at the step of a heavy carriage, drawn by two large Norman horses.
与此同时，主人确信是年轻人的出现才把陌生人赶出了旅馆，他重新登上妻子的房间，发现达达尼昂刚刚恢复理智。让他明白，警察会因为他与一位大领主发生争执而对他进行相当严厉的处理——根据主人的意见，陌生人可能不亚于一位大领主——他坚持认为，尽管他很软弱，但达达尼昂应该尽快起身离开。达达尼昂半愣住了，没穿紧身衣，头上裹着亚麻布，然后站了起来，在主人的催促下，开始走下楼梯。但一到厨房，他首先看到的是他的对手在一辆由两匹诺曼大马拉着的重型马车的台阶上平静地说话。

His interlocutor, whose head appeared through the carriage window, was a woman of from twenty to two-and-twenty years. We have already observed with what rapidity d’Artagnan seized the expression of a countenance. He perceived then, at a glance, that this woman was young and beautiful; and her style of beauty struck him more forcibly from its being totally different from that of the southern countries in which d’Artagnan had hitherto resided. She was pale and fair, with long curls falling in profusion over her shoulders, had large, blue, languishing eyes, rosy lips, and hands of alabaster. She was talking with great animation with the stranger.
对话者的头从车窗里露出来，是一位二十岁到二二十岁的女人。我们已经观察到达达尼昂捕捉表情的速度是多么快。他一眼就看出这个女人年轻漂亮，她的美貌给他留下了更深刻的印象，因为她的美貌与达达尼昂迄今为止所居住的南方国家的美貌完全不同。她面色苍白，皮肤白皙，一头长长的卷发披散在肩上，一双大而忧郁的蓝色眼睛，玫瑰色的嘴唇，还有雪花石膏般的双手。她正在与陌生人愉快地交谈。

‘His Eminence, then, orders me—‘ said the lady.
“那么，陛下命令我——”那位女士说道。

‘To return instantly to England, and to inform him as soon as the duke leaves London.’
“立即返回英国，并在公爵离开伦敦后立即通知他。”

‘And as to my other instructions?’ asked the fair traveler.
“那么我的其他指示呢？”美丽的旅行者问道。

‘They are contained in this box, which you will not open until you are on the other side of the Channel.’
“它们就装在这个盒子里，除非你到达海峡的另一边，否则你无法打开它。”

‘Very well; and you—what will you do?’
'很好;而你——你会做什么？

‘I—I return to Paris.’
“我——我回到巴黎。”

‘What, without chastising this insolent boy?’ asked the lady.
“怎么，不惩罚这个无礼的男孩吗？”那位女士问道。

The stranger was about to reply; but at the moment he opened his mouth, d’Artagnan, who had heard all, precipitated himself over the threshold of the door.
陌生人正要回答，却没能回答。但就在他张开嘴的那一刻，达达尼昂已经听到了一切，猛地跨过了门槛。

‘This insolent boy chastises others,’ cried he; ‘and I hope that this time he whom he ought to chastise will not escape him as before.’
“这个无礼的男孩惩罚别人，”他喊道。 “我希望这一次他应该惩罚的人不会像以前那样逃脱他的惩罚。”

‘Will not escape him?’ replied the stranger, knitting his brow.
“逃不过他吗？”陌生人皱着眉头回答道。

‘No; before a woman you would dare not fly, I presume?’
'不;在一个女人面前你不敢飞翔，我猜？

‘Remember,’ said Milady, seeing the stranger lay his hand on his sword, ‘the least delay may ruin everything.’
“记住，”米莱迪看到陌生人把手放在剑上，说道，“稍有耽搁就可能毁掉一切。”

‘You are right,’ cried the gentleman; ‘begone then, on your part, and I will depart as quickly on mine.’ And bowing to the lady, sprang into his saddle, while her coachman applied his whip vigorously to his horses. The two interlocutors thus separated, taking opposite directions, at full gallop.
“你是对的，”这位绅士喊道。 “那么，你就走吧，我也快点走吧。”他向那位女士鞠了一躬，跳上马鞍，而她的车夫则用力地用鞭子抽打他的马。两个对话者就这样分开了，朝着相反的方向，全速驰骋。

‘Pay him, booby!’ cried the stranger to his servant, without checking the speed of his horse; and the man, after throwing two or three silver pieces at the foot of mine host, galloped after his master.
“给他钱，笨蛋！”陌生人对他的仆人喊道，没有检查他的马的速度。那人把两三块银子扔到我主人脚下后，就追赶着他的主人。

‘Base coward! false gentleman!’ cried d’Artagnan, springing forward, in his turn, after the servant. But his wound had rendered him too weak to support such an exertion. Scarcely had he gone ten steps when his ears began to tingle, a faintness seized him, a cloud of blood passed over his eyes, and he fell in the middle of the street, crying still, ‘Coward! coward! coward!’
‘卑鄙的胆小鬼！ “假绅士！”达达尼昂喊道，他也跟着仆人向前跳去。但他的伤使他太虚弱了，无法承受这样的努力。刚走出十步，他的耳朵就开始发麻，一阵眩晕感袭来，一团血从他的眼睛里流过，他倒在街中央，还在叫喊：“胆小鬼！”懦夫！懦夫！'

‘He is a coward, indeed,’ grumbled the host, drawing near to d’Artagnan, and endeavoring by this little flattery to make up matters with the young man, as the heron of the fable did with the snail he had despised the evening before.
“他确实是个胆小鬼，”主人一边抱怨着，一边走近达达尼昂，试图用这小小的奉承来和这个年轻人和解，就像寓言中的苍鹭对他那天晚上鄙视的蜗牛所做的那样。前。

‘Yes, a base coward,’ murmured d’Artagnan; ‘but she—she was very beautiful.’
“是的，一个卑鄙的胆小鬼，”达达尼昂低声说道。 “但是她——她非常美丽。”

‘What she?’ demanded the host.
“她是什么？”主人问道。

‘Milady,’ faltered d’Artagnan, and fainted a second time.
“米拉迪，”达达尼昂支支吾吾地说，然后第二次晕倒了。

‘Ah, it’s all one,’ said the host; ‘I have lost two customers, but this one remains, of whom I am pretty certain for some days to come. There will be eleven crowns gained.’
主人说：“啊，都是一个。” “我失去了两位顾客，但这位顾客仍然存在，我在未来几天里都非常确定他是他的客户。将获得十一冠。

It is to be remembered that eleven crowns was just the sum that remained in d’Artagnan’s purse.
值得注意的是，达达尼昂钱包里只剩下十一个克朗。

The host had reckoned upon eleven days of confinement at a crown a day, but he had reckoned without his guest. On the following morning at five o’clock d’Artagnan arose, and descending to the kitchen without help, asked, among other ingredients the list of which has not come down to us, for some oil, some wine, and some rosemary, and with his mother’s recipe in his hand composed a balsam, with which he anointed his numerous wounds, replacing his bandages himself, and positively refusing the assistance of any doctor, d’Artagnan walked about that same evening, and was almost cured by the morrow.
主人原计划以每天一克朗的价格进行十一天的禁闭，但他没有考虑到他的客人。第二天早上五点钟，达达尼昂起床，在没有帮助的情况下下楼到厨房，除了我们还没有找到的其他配料外，还要求一些油、一些酒和一些迷迭香，然后达达尼昂手里拿着母亲的配方配制了一种香脂，用它涂抹了他的无数伤口，自己更换了绷带，并坚决拒绝任何医生的帮助，达达尼昂当天晚上就走了一圈，第二天几乎就痊愈了。

But when the time came to pay for his rosemary, this oil, and the wine, the only expense the master had incurred, as he had preserved a strict abstinence—while on the contrary, the yellow horse, by the account of the hostler at least, had eaten three times as much as a horse of his size could reasonably supposed to have done—d’Artagnan found nothing in his pocket but his little old velvet purse with the eleven crowns it contained; for as to the letter addressed to M. de Treville, it had disappeared.
但是，到了支付他的迷迭香、这种油和酒的时候，这是主人所花费的唯一费用，因为他保持了严格的禁欲——而相反，根据马夫的说法，黄马至少，他吃的东西是他体型的马的三倍——达达尼昂在他的口袋里什么也没找到，除了他那只旧天鹅绒钱包，里面装着十一个克朗；因为至于写给德·特雷维尔先生的信，它已经消失了。

The young man commenced his search for the letter with the greatest patience, turning out his pockets of all kinds over and over again, rummaging and rerummaging in his valise, and opening and reopening his purse; but when he found that he had come to the conviction that the letter was not to be found, he flew, for the third time, into such a rage as was near costing him a fresh consumption of wine, oil, and rosemary—for upon seeing this hotheaded youth become exasperated and threaten to destroy everything in the establishment if his letter were not found, the host seized a spit, his wife a broom handle, and the servants the same sticks they had used the day before.
年轻人以极大的耐心开始寻找那封信，一遍又一遍地翻出各种口袋，在提包里翻来翻去，打开钱包又打开又打开。但当他发现自己已经确信那封信找不到时，他第三次勃然大怒，几乎让他喝掉了新的酒、油和迷迭香——因为看到这个性急的年轻人变得愤怒，并威胁说，如果找不到他的信，他就要毁掉店里的一切，主人抓起一把铁叉，他的妻子抓起扫帚柄，仆人抓起他们前一天用过的木棍。

‘My letter of recommendation!’ cried d’Artagnan, ‘my letter of recommendation! or, the holy blood, I will spit you all like ortolans!’
“我的推荐信！”达达尼昂喊道，“我的推荐信！”否则，神圣的血液，我会像 Ortolans 一样吐掉你们！”

Unfortunately, there was one circumstance which created a powerful obstacle to the accomplishment of this threat; which was, as we have related, that his sword had been in his first conflict broken in two, and which he had entirely forgotten. Hence, it resulted when d’Artagnan proceeded to draw his sword in earnest, he found himself purely and simply armed with a stump of a sword about eight or ten inches in length, which the host had carefully placed in the scabbard. As to the rest of the blade, the master had slyly put that on one side to make himself a larding pin.
不幸的是，有一种情况对实现这一威胁造成了巨大的障碍：正如我们已经提到的，他的剑在他的第一次冲突中断成了两半，而他完全忘记了这一点。所以，当达达尼昂认真地拔剑时，他发现自己纯粹简单地拿着一把长约八、十英寸的剑残端，是主人小心翼翼地放在剑鞘里的。至于刀刃的其余部分，大师偷偷地把它放在一边，给自己做了一个猪油钉。

But this deception would probably not have stopped our fiery young man if the host had not reflected that the reclamation which his guest made was perfectly just.
但是，如果主人没有意识到他的客人所做的声明是完全公正的，那么这种欺骗可能就无法阻止我们火热的年轻人。

‘But, after all,’ said he, lowering the point of his spit, ‘where is this letter?’
“但是，毕竟，”他放下口子说道，“这封信在哪里？”

‘Yes, where is this letter?’ cried d’Artagnan. ‘In the first place, I warn you that that letter is for Monsieur de Treville, and it must be found, he will know how to find it.’
“是的，这封信在哪里？”达达尼昂喊道。 “首先，我警告你，那封信是写给德特雷维尔先生的，必须找到它，他会知道如何找到它。”

His threat completed the intimidation of the host. After the king and the cardinal, M. de Treville was the man whose name was perhaps most frequently repeated by the military, and even by citizens. There was, to be sure, Father Joseph, but his name was never pronounced but with a subdued voice, such was the terror inspired by his Gray Eminence, as the cardinal’s familiar was called.
他的威胁完成了对主人的恐吓。在国王和红衣主教之后，德特雷维尔先生的名字也许是军队甚至公民中最常重复的人。确实，有约瑟夫神父，但他的名字从来没有被念出来，只是用一种柔和的声音，这就是他的灰色主教所激发的恐惧，正如红衣主教的使魔被称为那样。

Throwing down his spit, and ordering his wife to do the same with her broom handle, and the servants with their sticks, he set the first example of commencing an earnest search for the lost letter.
他扔掉了自己的口水，并命令他的妻子用扫帚柄和仆人用棍子也这样做，他树立了第一个开始认真寻找丢失的信件的榜样。

‘Does the letter contain anything valuable?’ demanded the host, after a few minutes of useless investigation.
“这封信里有什么有价值的东西吗？”经过几分钟无用的调查后，主人问道。

‘Zounds! I think it does indeed!’ cried the Gascon, who reckoned upon this letter for making his way at court. ‘It contained my fortune!’
‘Zounds！我认为确实如此！”加斯科涅人喊道，他认为这封信是他进入宫廷的原因。 “里面装着我的财富！”

‘Bills upon Spain?’ asked the disturbed host.
“西班牙的账单？”不安的主人问道。

‘Bills upon his Majesty’s private treasury,’ answered d’Artagnan, who, reckoning upon entering into the king’s service in consequence of this recommendation, believed he could make this somewhat hazardous reply without telling of a falsehood.
“账单属于国王陛下的私人国库，”达达尼昂回答道，他预计自己会因为这一建议而进入国王身边，相信自己可以在不撒谎的情况下做出这个有点危险的回答。

‘The devil!’ cried the host, at his wit’s end.
“见鬼了！”主人无计可施地喊道。

‘But it’s of no importance,’ continued d’Artagnan, with natural assurance; ‘it’s of no importance. The money is nothing; that letter was everything. I would rather have lost a thousand pistoles than have lost it.’ He would not have risked more if he had said twenty thousand; but a certain juvenile modesty restrained him.
“但这并不重要，”达达尼昂自然而然地继续说道。 ‘这并不重要。钱不算什么；那封信就是一切。 “我宁愿失去一千皮斯托，也不愿失去它。”即使他说两万皮斯托，他也不会冒更大的风险。但某种少年人的谦虚限制了他。

A ray of light all at once broke upon the mind of the host as he was giving himself to the devil upon finding nothing.
正当主人一无所获，将自己交给魔鬼的时候，一道光芒突然照亮了他的心。

‘That letter is not lost!’ cried he.
“那封信没有丢失！”他喊道。

‘What!’ cried d’Artagnan.
“什么！”达达尼昂叫道。

‘No, it has been stolen from you.’
“不，它是从你那里偷来的。”

‘Stolen? By whom?’
‘被偷了？通过谁？'

‘By the gentleman who was here yesterday. He came down into the kitchen, where your doublet was. He remained there some time alone. I would lay a wager he has stolen it.’
‘昨天来过这里的那位先生。他来到厨房，你的紧身衣就在那里。他独自在那里呆了一段时间。我打赌他偷了它。

‘Do you think so?’ answered d’Artagnan, but little convinced, as he knew better than anyone else how entirely personal the value of this letter was, and was nothing in it likely to tempt cupidity. The fact was that none of his servants, none of the travelers present, could have gained anything by being possessed of this paper.
“你这么认为吗？”达达尼昂回答，但不太相信，因为他比任何人都清楚这封信的价值是多么完全私人化，而且里面没有任何东西可能会诱惑贪婪。事实上，他的仆人、在场的旅行者都无法通过拥有这张纸而获得任何好处。

‘Do you say,’ resumed d’Artagnan, ‘that you suspect that impertinent gentleman?’
“你是说，”达达尼昂继续说道，“你怀疑那位无礼的绅士吗？”

‘I tell you I am sure of it,’ continued the host. ‘When I informed him that your lordship was the protege of Monsieur de Treville, and that you even had a letter for that illustrious gentleman, he appeared to be very much disturbed, and asked me where that letter was, and immediately came down into the kitchen, where he knew your doublet was.’
“我告诉你我确信这一点，”主持人继续说道。 “当我告诉他，阁下是德·特雷维尔先生的门生，而且您甚至还收到了一封写给这位杰出绅士的信时，他显得非常不安，问我那封信在哪里，然后立即走进了房间。厨房，他知道你的紧身衣在哪里。

‘Then that’s my thief,’ replied d’Artagnan. ‘I will complain to Monsieur de Treville, and Monsieur de Treville will complain to the king.’ He then drew two crowns majestically from his purse and gave them to the host, who accompanied him, cap in hand, to the gate, and remounted his yellow horse, which bore him without any further accident to the gate of St. Antoine at Paris, where his owner sold him for three crowns, which was a very good price, considering that d’Artagnan had ridden him hard during the last stage. Thus the dealer to whom d’Artagnan sold him for the nine livres did not conceal from the young man that he only gave that enormous sum for him on the account of the originality of his color.
“那就是我的小偷了，”达达尼昂回答道。 “我要向德·特雷维尔先生投诉，德·特雷维尔先生也要向国王投诉。”然后，他从钱包里庄严地掏出两顶王冠，交给了主人，主人戴着帽子，陪着他来到了大门，然后重新上马。他的黄马毫无意外地载着他到了巴黎的圣安东尼门口，在那里他的主人以三克朗的价格将他卖掉，考虑到达达尼昂在最后赛段中对他的骑术，这是一个非常好的价格。 。因此，达达尼昂以九里弗的价格把他卖给他的商人并没有向年轻人隐瞒，他只是因为他的颜色的独创性才给了他这么大的价钱。

Thus d’Artagnan entered Paris on foot, carrying his little packet under his arm, and walked about till he found an apartment to be let on terms suited to the scantiness of his means. This chamber was a sort of garret, situated in the Rue des Fossoyeurs, near the Luxembourg.
达达尼昂就这样步行进入巴黎，腋下夹着小包，四处走动，直到找到一套适合他财力匮乏的条件出租的公寓。这个房间是一种阁楼，位于卢森堡附近的福索耶街。

As soon as the earnest money was paid, d’Artagnan took possession of his lodging, and passed the remainder of the day in sewing onto his doublet and hose some ornamental braiding which his mother had taken off an almost-new doublet of the elder M. d’Artagnan, and which she had given her son secretly. Next he went to the Quai de Feraille to have a new blade put to his sword, and then returned toward the Louvre, inquiring of the first Musketeer he met for the situation of the hotel of M. de Treville, which proved to be in the Rue du Vieux-Colombier; that is to say, in the immediate vicinity of the chamber hired by d’Artagnan—a circumstance which appeared to furnish a happy augury for the success of his journey.
定金一付完，达达尼昂就住进了他的住处，用这一天剩下的时间在他的紧身上衣上缝制一些装饰性的辫子，这些辫子是他母亲从老M的一件几乎新的紧身上衣上取下来的。达达尼昂，这是她秘密给她儿子的。接下来，他前往费拉耶码头 (Quai de Feraille) 换了一把新刀片，然后返回卢浮宫，向他遇到的第一个火枪手询问德特雷维尔先生 (M. de Treville) 酒店的情况，事实证明该酒店位于老哥伦比耶街；也就是说，就在达达尼昂租用的房间附近——这种情况似乎为他的旅程的成功提供了一个美好的预兆。

After this, satisfied with the way in which he had conducted himself at Meung, without remorse for the past, confident in the present, and full of hope for the future, he retired to bed and slept the sleep of the brave.
此后，他对自己在默恩的表现感到满意，对过去没有悔恨，对现在充满信心，对未来充满希望，他上床睡觉，睡了勇敢的觉。

This sleep, provincial as it was, brought him to nine o’clock in the morning; at which hour he rose, in order to repair to the residence of M. de Treville, the third personage in the kingdom, in the paternal estimation.
这一觉虽然很乡土，但让他睡到了早上九点。这时，他起身前往德特雷维尔先生的住所，按照父亲的说法，特雷维尔先生是王国的第三号人物。

2 THE ANTECHAMBER OF M. DE TREVILLE
2 德·特雷维尔先生的前厅

M. de Troisville, as his family was still called in Gascony, or M. de Treville, as he has ended by styling himself in Paris, had really commenced life as d’Artagnan now did; that is to say, without a sou in his pocket, but with a fund of audacity, shrewdness, and intelligence which makes the poorest Gascon gentleman often derive more in his hope from the paternal inheritance than the richest Perigordian or Berrichan gentleman derives in reality from his. His insolent bravery, his still more insolent success at a time when blows poured down like hail, had borne him to the top of that difficult ladder called Court Favor, which he had climbed four steps at a time.
德·特鲁瓦维尔先生（他的家人在加斯科涅仍被称为德·特鲁瓦维尔先生），或者德·特雷维尔先生（他最后在巴黎自称），真正开始了与达达尼昂现在一样的生活。也就是说，他的口袋里没有一个苏，但拥有一笔大胆、精明和智慧的资金，这使得最贫穷的加斯科涅绅士常常希望从父系遗产中获得比最富有的佩里戈尔德或贝里查绅士实际上从父系遗产中获得的更多。他的。他无礼的勇敢，在打击如冰雹般倾泻而下的时候，他更加无礼的成功，使他登上了名为“宫廷青睐”的艰难阶梯的顶端，他一次爬了四级台阶。

He was the friend of the king, who honored highly, as everyone knows, the memory of his father, Henry IV. The father of M. de Treville had served him so faithfully in his wars against the league that in default of money—a thing to which the Bearnais was accustomed all his life, and who constantly paid his debts with that of which he never stood in need of borrowing, that is to say, with ready wit—in default of money, we repeat, he authorized him, after the reduction of Paris, to assume for his arms a golden lion passant upon gules, with the motto FIDELIS ET FORTIS. This was a great matter in the way of honor, but very little in the way of wealth; so that when the illustrious companion of the great Henry died, the only inheritance he was able to leave his son was his sword and his motto. Thanks to this double gift and the spotless name that accompanied it, M. de Treville was admitted into the household of the young prince where he made such good use of his sword, and was so faithful to his motto, that Louis XIII, one of the good blades of his kingdom, was accustomed to say that if he had a friend who was about to fight, he would advise him to choose as a second, himself first, and Treville next—or even, perhaps, before himself.
众所周知，他是国王的朋友，国王高度缅怀他的父亲亨利四世。德·特雷维尔先生的父亲在对抗联盟的战争中忠实地为他服务，以至于拖欠了钱——这是贝阿奈一家一生都习惯的事情，他不断地用他从未参与过的债务来偿还债务。需要借钱，也就是说，用现成的智慧——在缺乏资金的情况下，我们再说一遍，他授权他在巴黎沦陷后，以一只红色的金狮为武器，其座右铭是“FIDELIS ET FORTIS”。这对于荣誉而言是一件大事，但对于财富而言却微不足道。因此，当伟大的亨利的杰出同伴去世时，他留给儿子的唯一遗产就是他的剑和他的座右铭。多亏了这份双重礼物和随之而来的一尘不染的名字，德特雷维尔先生被允许进入年轻王子的家中，在那里他很好地使用了他的剑，并且非常忠实于他的座右铭，路易十三，一位他是他王国里的好刀锋，习惯说，如果他有一个即将参战的朋友，他会建议他选择第二个，首先是他自己，然后是特雷维尔——甚至可能是在他自己之前。

Thus Louis XIII had a real liking for Treville—a royal liking, a self-interested liking, it is true, but still a liking. At that unhappy period it was an important consideration to be surrounded by such men as Treville. Many might take for their device the epithet STRONG, which formed the second part of his motto, but very few gentlemen could lay claim to the FAITHFUL, which constituted the first. Treville was one of these latter. His was one of those rare organizations, endowed with an obedient intelligence like that of the dog; with a blind valor, a quick eye, and a prompt hand; to whom sight appeared only to be given to see if the king were dissatisfied with anyone, and the hand to strike this displeasing personage, whether a Besme, a Maurevers, a Poltiot de Mere, or a Vitry. In short, up to this period nothing had been wanting to Treville but opportunity; but he was ever on the watch for it, and he faithfully promised himself that he would not fail to seize it by its three hairs whenever it came within reach of his hand. At last Louis XIII made Treville the captain of his Musketeers, who were to Louis XIII in devotedness, or rather in fanaticism, what his Ordinaries had been to Henry III, and his Scotch Guard to Louis XI.
因此，路易十三对特雷维尔有一种真正的喜欢——一种皇室的喜欢，一种自私的喜欢，这是事实，但仍然是一种喜欢。在那个不幸的时期，被特雷维尔这样的人包围是一个重要的考虑因素。许多人可能会认为“坚强”这个绰号是他的座右铭的第二部分，但很少有绅士能宣称自己是“忠实”，它构成了第一部分。特雷维尔就是后者之一。他的组织是罕见的组织之一，具有像狗一样听话的聪明才智。凭着盲目的勇气、敏锐的目光和敏捷的双手；对他们来说，目光似乎只是为了看看国王是否对任何人不满意，并且用手去打击这个令人不快的人物，无论是贝斯梅、毛勒弗、波尔蒂奥·德·梅尔还是维特里。简而言之，到目前为止，特雷维尔除了机会之外什么都没有。但他始终警惕着它，并忠实地向自己保证，只要它触手可及，他就一定会抓住它的三根毛发。最后，路易十三任命特雷维尔为他的火枪手队长，他们对路易十三的忠诚，或者更确切地说是狂热，就像他的普通军官对亨利三世，以及他的苏格兰近卫队对路易十一一样。

On his part, the cardinal was not behind the king in this respect. When he saw the formidable and chosen body with which Louis XIII had surrounded himself, this second, or rather this first king of France, became desirous that he, too, should have his guard. He had his Musketeers therefore, as Louis XIII had his, and these two powerful rivals vied with each other in procuring, not only from all the provinces of France, but even from all foreign states, the most celebrated swordsmen. It was not uncommon for Richelieu and Louis XIII to dispute over their evening game of chess upon the merits of their servants. Each boasted the bearing and the courage of his own people. While exclaiming loudly against duels and brawls, they excited them secretly to quarrel, deriving an immoderate satisfaction or genuine regret from the success or defeat of their own combatants. We learn this from the memoirs of a man who was concerned in some few of these defeats and in many of these victories.
就红衣主教而言，他在这方面并不落后于国王。当他看到路易十三周围的强大而精选的身体时，第二位，或者更确切地说，第一位法国国王，开始希望他也应该有他的警卫。因此，他有自己的火枪手，就像路易十三有他的火枪手一样，这两个强大的对手相互竞争，不仅从法国所有省份，甚至从所有外国，采购最著名的剑客。对于黎塞留和路易十三来说，晚上下棋时根据仆人的功绩发生争执的情况并不少见。每个人都夸耀自己人民的风度和勇气。他们一边大声喊叫反对决斗和斗殴，一边暗地里煽动他们争吵，从自己的战斗者的成败中获得过度的满足或真正的遗憾。我们从一个人的回忆录中了解到这一点，他关心其中的一些失败和许多这样的胜利。

Treville had grasped the weak side of his master; and it was to this address that he owed the long and constant favor of a king who has not left the reputation behind him of being very faithful in his friendships. He paraded his Musketeers before the Cardinal Armand Duplessis with an insolent air which made the gray moustache of his Eminence curl with ire. Treville understood admirably the war method of that period, in which he who could not live at the expense of the enemy must live at the expense of his compatriots. His soldiers formed a legion of devil-may-care fellows, perfectly undisciplined toward all but himself.
特雷维尔抓住了他主人的弱点。正是由于这次演讲，他得到了一位国王长期而持续的青睐，这位国王并没有忘记他对友谊非常忠诚的声誉。他在红衣主教阿尔芒·杜普莱西斯面前炫耀他的火枪手，态度傲慢无礼，令主教大人的灰色小胡子愤怒地卷曲。特雷维尔对那个时期的战争方法有着令人钦佩的理解，在这种方法中，不能以牺牲敌人为代价的人必须以牺牲同胞为代价来生活。他的士兵组成了一支不顾一切的军团，除了他自己之外，对所有人都毫无纪律。

Loose, half-drunk, imposing, the king’s Musketeers, or rather M. de Treville’s, spread themselves about in the cabarets, in the public walks, and the public sports, shouting, twisting their mustaches, clanking their swords, and taking great pleasure in annoying the Guards of the cardinal whenever they could fall in with them; then drawing in the open streets, as if it were the best of all possible sports; sometimes killed, but sure in that case to be both wept and avenged; often killing others, but then certain of not rotting in prison, M. de Treville being there to claim them. Thus M. de Treville was praised to the highest note by these men, who adored him, and who, ruffians as they were, trembled before him like scholars before their master, obedient to his least word, and ready to sacrifice themselves to wash out the smallest insult.
国王的火枪手们，或者说是德·特雷维尔先生的火枪手们，散漫、半醉、威风凛凛，在歌舞厅、公共步道和公共体育活动中四处游荡，叫喊着，扭着胡子，把剑叮当作响，享受着巨大的乐趣。每当红衣主教的卫兵与他们发生冲突时，都会惹恼他们；然后在开阔的街道上画画，仿佛这是所有可能的运动中最好的；有时会被杀，但在这种情况下肯定会既哭泣又报仇；经常杀人，但又确信不会在监狱里腐烂，德特雷维尔先生在那里认领他们。因此，德·特雷维尔先生受到了这些人的高度赞扬，他们崇拜他，尽管他们是恶棍，但他们在他面前颤抖，就像学者在他们的主人面前一样，服从他的最小一句话，并准备牺牲自己来洗刷自己。最小的侮辱。

M. de Treville employed this powerful weapon for the king, in the first place, and the friends of the king—and then for himself and his own friends. For the rest, in the memoirs of this period, which has left so many memoirs, one does not find this worthy gentleman blamed even by his enemies; and he had many such among men of the pen as well as among men of the sword. In no instance, let us say, was this worthy gentleman accused of deriving personal advantage from the cooperation of his minions. Endowed with a rare genius for intrigue which rendered him the equal of the ablest intriguers, he remained an honest man. Still further, in spite of sword thrusts which weaken, and painful exercises which fatigue, he had become one of the most gallant frequenters of revels, one of the most insinuating lady’s men, one of the softest whisperers of interesting nothings of his day; the BONNES FORTUNES of de Treville were talked of as those of M. de Bassompierre had been talked of twenty years before, and that was not saying a little. The captain of the Musketeers was therefore admired, feared, and loved; and this constitutes the zenith of human fortune.
德特雷维尔先生首先为国王和国王的朋友们使用了这种强大的武器，然后为他自己和他自己的朋友们使用了这种强大的武器。除此之外，在这个时期的回忆录中，人们留下了如此多的回忆录，我们看不到这位值得尊敬的绅士甚至受到他的敌人的指责；他在文人中和武士中都有很多这样的人。可以说，这位可敬的绅士在任何情况下都没有被指控从他的爪牙的合作中获取个人利益。他具有罕见的阴谋天赋，这使他可以与最有能力的阴谋家相媲美，但他仍然是一个诚实的人。更进一步说，尽管剑刺会削弱力量，痛苦的练习会让人疲劳，但他已经成为最勇敢的狂欢者之一，最含蓄的女士男人之一，最温柔的低语者之一，谈论他那个时代的有趣的事情；人们谈论德·特雷维尔的好运就像二十年前谈论德·巴松皮埃尔先生的那样，这并不是什么小事。因此，火枪手队长受到钦佩、敬畏和爱戴。这构成了人类财富的顶峰。

Louis XIV absorbed all the smaller stars of his court in his own vast radiance; but his father, a sun PLURIBUS IMPAR, left his personal splendor to each of his favorites, his individual value to each of his courtiers. In addition to the leeves of the king and the cardinal, there might be reckoned in Paris at that time more than two hundred smaller but still noteworthy leeves. Among these two hundred leeves, that of Treville was one of the most sought.
路易十四以其巨大的光芒吸收了宫廷中所有较小的明星。但他的父亲，一位太阳普鲁里布斯·英帕尔（PLURIBUS IMPAR），把他个人的辉煌留给了他的每一个宠臣，把他个人的价值留给了他的每一个朝臣。除了国王和红衣主教的徽章外，当时的巴黎可能还有两百多个较小但仍然值得注意的徽章。在这 200 个叶子中，特雷维尔的叶子是最受欢迎的之一。

The court of his hotel, situated in the Rue du Vieux-Colombier, resembled a camp from by six o’clock in the morning in summer and eight o’clock in winter. From fifty to sixty Musketeers, who appeared to replace one another in order always to present an imposing number, paraded constantly, armed to the teeth and ready for anything. On one of those immense staircases, upon whose space modern civilization would build a whole house, ascended and descended the office seekers of Paris, who ran after any sort of favor—gentlemen from the provinces anxious to be enrolled, and servants in all sorts of liveries, bringing and carrying messages between their masters and M. de Treville. In the antechamber, upon long circular benches, reposed the elect; that is to say, those who were called. In this apartment a continued buzzing prevailed from morning till night, while M. de Treville, in his office contiguous to this antechamber, received visits, listened to complaints, gave his orders, and like the king in his balcony at the Louvre, had only to place himself at the window to review both his men and arms.
他的酒店庭院位于老哥伦比耶街，夏天早上六点钟和冬天早上八点钟就像一个营地。从五十到六十名火枪手，他们似乎互相替换，以便始终呈现出令人印象深刻的数量，不断地游行，全副武装，随时准备应对任何情况。在这些巨大的楼梯之一上，现代文明将在其空间上建造一整栋房子，巴黎的求职者上下上落，他们追逐着各种恩惠——来自各省渴望入学的绅士，以及各种职位的仆人。制服，在他们的主人和德·特雷维尔先生之间传递信息。在前厅里，选民们坐在长长的圆形长凳上。也就是说，那些被呼召的人。在这间公寓里，从早到晚，嗡嗡声不断，而德特雷维尔先生在他与前厅相邻的办公室里，接待来访，听取投诉，下达命令，就像卢浮宫阳台上的国王一样，他只他站在窗前检视他的人和武器。

The day on which d’Artagnan presented himself the assemblage was imposing, particularly for a provincial just arriving from his province. It is true that this provincial was a Gascon; and that, particularly at this period, the compatriots of d’Artagnan had the reputation of not being easily intimidated. When he had once passed the massive door covered with long square-headed nails, he fell into the midst of a troop of swordsmen, who crossed one another in their passage, calling out, quarreling, and playing tricks one with another. In order to make one’s way amid these turbulent and conflicting waves, it was necessary to be an officer, a great noble, or a pretty woman.
达达尼昂出席集会的那一天是令人印象深刻的，特别是对于一个刚从本省抵达的外省人来说。确实，这个外省人是加斯科涅人。而且，特别是在这个时期，达达尼昂的同胞享有不易被吓倒的名声。当他穿过那扇布满方头长钉的大门时，他就陷入了一群剑客的中间，他们在路上互相呼喊、争吵、捉弄。要想在这波涛汹涌、矛盾重重的浪潮中脱颖而出，要么是军官，要么是大贵族，要么是漂亮的女人。

It was, then, into the midst of this tumult and disorder that our young man advanced with a beating heat, ranging his long rapier up his lanky leg, and keeping one hand on the edge of his cap, with that half-smile of the embarrassed a provincial who wishes to put on a good face. When he had passed one group he began to breathe more freely; but he could not help observing that they turned round to look at him, and for the first time in his life d’Artagnan, who had till that day entertained a very good opinion of himself, felt ridiculous.
就在这时，我们的年轻人在这片喧闹和混乱中向前迈进，他的长剑沿着他瘦长的腿向上延伸，一只手放在帽子的边缘，脸上带着那种半微笑的表情。让一个想装出好脸来的外省人感到尴尬。当他经过一组时，他开始呼吸更加自由；但他情不自禁地发现他们转过身来看着他，达达尼昂生平第一次感到可笑，直到今天，他一直对自己抱有很好的看法。

Arrived at the staircase, it was still worse. There were four Musketeers on the bottom steps, amusing themselves with the following exercise, while ten or twelve of their comrades waited upon the landing place to take their turn in the sport.
到了楼梯口，情况更糟了。最下面的台阶上有四个火枪手，正在自娱自乐地进行着下面的练习，而他们的十到十二个战友则在着陆点等待轮流进行游戏。

One of them, stationed upon the top stair, naked sword in hand, prevented, or at least endeavored to prevent, the three others from ascending.
其中一人站在最上面的楼梯上，手里拿着光秃秃的剑，阻止或至少试图阻止其他三人登上楼梯。

These three others fenced against him with their agile swords.
另外三人用敏捷的剑与他对抗。

D’Artagnan at first took these weapons for foils, and believed them to be buttoned; but he soon perceived by certain scratches that every weapon was pointed and sharpened, and that at each of these scratches not only the spectators, but even the actors themselves, laughed like so many madmen.
达达尼昂起初把这些武器当作箔片，并相信它们是用扣子扣住的。但他很快就从某些划痕中发现，每件武器都是尖锐的和锋利的，每一个划痕不仅观众，甚至演员本人，也像许多疯子一样笑起来。

He who at the moment occupied the upper step kept his adversaries marvelously in check. A circle was formed around them. The conditions required that at every hit the man touched should quit the game, yielding his turn for the benefit of the adversary who had hit him. In five minutes three were slightly wounded, one on the hand, another on the ear, by the defender of the stair, who himself remained intact—a piece of skill which was worth to him, according to the rules agreed upon, three turns of favor.
此刻占据上层台阶的他出色地遏制了对手。他们周围形成了一个圆圈。条件要求，该人每被击中一次，就必须退出游戏，让出自己的回合，以利于击中他的对手。五分钟内，三人受了轻伤，一人在手上，另一人在耳朵上，被楼梯的防守者打伤，而他本人却毫发无伤——根据商定的规则，这项技能对他来说是值得的，三回合青睐。

However difficult it might be, or rather as he pretended it was, to astonish our young traveler, this pastime really astonished him. He had seen in his province—that land in which heads become so easily heated—a few of the preliminaries of duels; but the daring of these four fencers appeared to him the strongest he had ever heard of even in Gascony. He believed himself transported into that famous country of giants into which Gulliver afterward went and was so frightened; and yet he had not gained the goal, for there were still the landing place and the antechamber.
不管要让我们年轻的旅行者感到惊讶有多么困难，或者更确切地说，正如他假装的那样，这种消遣确实让他感到惊讶。他在他的省份——那片很容易头脑发热的土地上——见过一些决斗的预赛；但在他看来，这四名击剑手的胆量是他所听说过的最强者，即使是在加斯科尼也是如此。他相信自己来到了那个著名的巨人国度，格列佛后来去了那里，感到非常害怕。然而他还没有达到目的，因为还有着陆点和前厅。

On the landing they were no longer fighting, but amused themselves with stories about women, and in the antechamber, with stories about the court. On the landing d’Artagnan blushed; in the antechamber he trembled. His warm and fickle imagination, which in Gascony had rendered formidable to young chambermaids, and even sometimes their mistresses, had never dreamed, even in moments of delirium, of half the amorous wonders or a quarter of the feats of gallantry which were here set forth in connection with names the best known and with details the least concealed. But if his morals were shocked on the landing, his respect for the cardinal was scandalized in the antechamber. There, to his great astonishment, d’Artagnan heard the policy which made all Europe tremble criticized aloud and openly, as well as the private life of the cardinal, which so many great nobles had been punished for trying to pry into. That great man who was so revered by d’Artagnan the elder served as an object of ridicule to the Musketeers of Treville, who cracked their jokes upon his bandy legs and his crooked back. Some sang ballads about Mme. d’Aguillon, his mistress, and Mme. Cambalet, his niece; while others formed parties and plans to annoy the pages and guards of the cardinal duke—all things which appeared to d’Artagnan monstrous impossibilities.
在楼梯平台上，他们不再打斗，而是以有关妇女的故事为乐，在前厅里，以有关宫廷的故事为乐。在楼梯平台上，达达尼昂脸红了。在前厅里，他浑身发抖。他热情而善变的想象力，在加斯科涅使年轻的女服务员甚至有时甚至是她们的情妇都感到害怕，但即使在精神错乱的时刻，他也从未梦想过这里所阐述的一半的爱情奇迹或四分之一的英勇壮举。与最知名的名字和最不被隐藏的细节有关。但如果说他的道德在着陆时受到了震惊，那么他对红衣主教的尊重在前厅里也受到了谴责。令达达尼昂大吃一惊的是，他在那里听到了令整个欧洲颤抖的政策受到公开大声批评，还有红衣主教的私生活，许多大贵族因试图窥探而受到惩罚。这位受到老达达尼昂如此崇敬的伟人却成了特雷维尔火枪手们嘲笑的对象，他们拿他的罗圈腿和弯曲的背开玩笑。有些人唱着关于夫人的歌谣。达吉永、他的情妇和夫人。坎巴莱特，他的侄女；其他人则组织聚会，计划惹恼红衣公爵的侍从和卫兵——所有这些在达达尼昂看来都是极其不可能的事情。

Nevertheless, when the name of the king was now and then uttered unthinkingly amid all these cardinal jests, a sort of gag seemed to close for a moment on all these jeering mouths. They looked hesitatingly around them, and appeared to doubt the thickness of the partition between them and the office of M. de Treville; but a fresh allusion soon brought back the conversation to his Eminence, and then the laughter recovered its loudness and the light was not withheld from any of his actions.
然而，当国王的名字时不时地在这些基本的玩笑中不假思索地说出来时，所有这些嘲笑者的嘴巴似乎都暂时被堵住了。他们犹豫地环顾四周，似乎对他们和德特雷维尔先生办公室之间的隔板厚度感到怀疑。但很快，一个新的典故又把谈话带回到了主教大人身上，然后笑声又恢复了原来的响亮，他的任何一举一动都受到了关注。

‘Certes, these fellows will all either be imprisoned or hanged,’ thought the terrified d’Artagnan, ‘and I, no doubt, with them; for from the moment I have either listened to or heard them, I shall be held as an accomplice. What would my good father say, who so strongly pointed out to me the respect due to the cardinal, if he knew I was in the society of such pagans?’
“当然，这些家伙要么会被监禁，要么会被绞死，”惊恐万分的达达尼昂想，“毫无疑问，我也会和他们一起；但是，我知道了。”因为从我听到或听到他们的那一刻起，我就会被视为同谋。如果我的好父亲知道我是在这样的异教徒的社会中，他会怎么说呢？他如此强烈地向我表示对红衣主教的尊重。

We have no need, therefore, to say that d’Artagnan dared not join in the conversation, only he looked with all his eyes and listened with all his ears, stretching his five senses so as to lose nothing; and despite his confidence on the paternal admonitions, he felt himself carried by his tastes and led by his instincts to praise rather than to blame the unheard-of things which were taking place.
因此，我们不必说达达尼昂不敢参加谈话，只是他用眼睛看，用耳朵听，伸展他的五种感官，以免失去任何东西；尽管他对父亲的告诫充满信心，但他感到自己被自己的品味和本能所引导，去赞扬而不是指责正在发生的闻所未闻的事情。

Although he was a perfect stranger in the court of M. de Treville’s courtiers, and this his first appearance in that place, he was at length noticed, and somebody came and asked him what he wanted. At this demand d’Artagnan gave his name very modestly, emphasized the title of compatriot, and begged the servant who had put the question to him to request a moment’s audience of M. de Treville—a request which the other, with an air of protection, promised to transmit in due season.
虽然他在德特雷维尔先生的朝臣们的宫廷里是一个完全陌生的人，而且这是他第一次出现在那个地方，但他最终还是被注意到了，有人走过来问他想要什么。达达尼昂听到这个要求，非常谦虚地报出了自己的名字，强调了同胞的头衔，并恳求向他提出问题的仆人请求德特雷维尔先生会见一下——对方带着一种保护，承诺在适当的季节传输。

D’Artagnan, a little recovered from his first surprise, had now leisure to study costumes and physiognomy.
达达尼昂从第一次的惊讶中恢复了一些，现在有闲暇研究服装和相貌。

The center of the most animated group was a Musketeer of great height and haughty countenance, dressed in a costume so peculiar as to attract general attention. He did not wear the uniform cloak—which was not obligatory at that epoch of less liberty but more independence—but a cerulean-blue doublet, a little faded and worn, and over this a magnificent baldric, worked in gold, which shone like water ripples in the sun. A long cloak of crimson velvet fell in graceful folds from his shoulders, disclosing in front the splendid baldric, from which was suspended a gigantic rapier. This Musketeer had just come off guard, complained of having a cold, and coughed from time to time affectedly. It was for this reason, as he said to those around him, that he had put on his cloak; and while he spoke with a lofty air and twisted his mustache disdainfully, all admired his embroidered baldric, and d’Artagnan more than anyone.
最热闹的一群人的中心是一个火枪手，身材高大，面容傲慢，穿着奇特的服装，引来众人的注意。他没有穿制服斗篷——在那个自由较少但独立较多的时代，这不是强制性的——而是一件天蓝色的紧身上衣，有点褪色和磨损，外面是华丽的金饰肩章，像水一样闪闪发光阳光下泛起涟漪。一件深红色天鹅绒长斗篷以优雅的褶皱从他的肩上垂下来，露出华丽的佩饰，上面悬挂着一把巨大的细剑。这个火枪手刚刚猝不及防，自诉感冒了，时不时还故作咳嗽。正如他对周围的人所说，正是出于这个原因，他才披上了斗篷。尽管他说话态度高傲，轻蔑地捻着小胡子，但所有人都对他的绣花肩章赞不绝口，而达达尼昂比任何人都更欣赏。

‘What would you have?’ said the Musketeer. ‘This fashion is coming in. It is a folly, I admit, but still it is the fashion. Besides, one must lay out one’s inheritance somehow.’
“你想要什么？”火枪手问道。 “这种时尚正在流行。我承认这是一种愚蠢的行为，但它仍然是时尚。”此外，一个人必须以某种方式分配自己的遗产。

‘Ah, Porthos!’ cried one of his companions, ‘don’t try to make us believe you obtained that baldric by paternal generosity. It was given to you by that veiled lady I met you with the other Sunday, near the gate St. Honor.’
“啊，波托斯！”他的一位同伴喊道，“别试图让我们相信你是通过父亲的慷慨才得到那顶佩饰的。这是我前几天在圣奥诺门附近遇见你的那位蒙着面纱的女士送给你的。

‘No, upon honor and by the faith of a gentleman, I bought it with the contents of my own purse,’ answered he whom they designated by the name Porthos.
“不，出于荣誉和绅士的信念，我用自己钱包里的东西买了它，”他们指定他为波托斯的名字回答道。

‘Yes; about in the same manner,’ said another Musketeer, ‘that I bought this new purse with what my mistress put into the old one.’
'是的; ”另一位火枪手说，“我用我情妇放进旧钱包的钱买了这个新钱包，也是同样的道理。”

‘It’s true, though,’ said Porthos; ‘and the proof is that I paid twelve pistoles for it.’
“不过，这是真的，”波托斯说。 “证据是我为此付了十二皮斯托尔。”

The wonder was increased, though the doubt continued to exist.
尽管疑问仍然存在，但惊奇却增加了。

‘Is it not true, Aramis?’ said Porthos, turning toward another Musketeer.
“这不是真的吗，阿拉米斯？”波托斯转向另一个火枪手说道。

This other Musketeer formed a perfect contrast to his interrogator, who had just designated him by the name of Aramis. He was a stout man, of about twoor three-and-twenty, with an open, ingenuous countenance, a black, mild eye, and cheeks rosy and downy as an autumn peach. His delicate mustache marked a perfectly straight line upon his upper lip; he appeared to dread to lower his hands lest their veins should swell, and he pinched the tips of his ears from time to time to preserve their delicate pink transparency. Habitually he spoke little and slowly, bowed frequently, laughed without noise, showing his teeth, which were fine and of which, as the rest of his person, he appeared to take great care. He answered the appeal of his friend by an affirmative nod of the head.
这另一个火枪手与他的审讯者形成了完美的对比，审讯者刚刚指定了他的名字阿拉米斯。他是个粗壮的男人，大约二三岁二十岁左右，面容坦荡，眼神温和，双颊红润，像秋天的桃子。他精致的小胡子在上唇上画出了一条完美的直线。他似乎不敢放下双手，以免血管肿胀，他时不时地捏捏耳尖，以保持它们细腻的粉红色透明度。他习惯性地说话少而缓慢，经常鞠躬，笑起来不发出声音，露出牙齿，牙齿很好，而且和他身体的其他部分一样，他似乎非常小心地对待牙齿。他以肯定地点点头回应了朋友的请求。

This affirmation appeared to dispel all doubts with regard to the baldric. They continued to admire it, but said no more about it; and with a rapid change of thought, the conversation passed suddenly to another subject.
这一肯定似乎打消了人们对佩饰的所有疑虑。他们继续欣赏它，但没有再多说什么。随着想法的迅速转变，谈话突然转到了另一个话题。

‘What do you think of the story Chalais’s esquire relates?’ asked another Musketeer, without addressing anyone in particular, but on the contrary speaking to everybody.
“你觉得查莱的侍从讲述的故事怎么样？”另一名火枪手问道，他没有具体针对任何人，而是对每个人说话。

‘And what does he say?’ asked Porthos, in a self-sufficient tone.
“他怎么说？”波托斯用一种自以为是的语气问道。

‘He relates that he met at Brussels Rochefort, the AME DAMNEE of the cardinal disguised as a Capuchin, and that this cursed Rochefort, thanks to his disguise, had tricked Monsieur de Laigues, like a ninny as he is.’
“他说，他在布鲁塞尔遇到了伪装成嘉布遣会的红衣主教罗什福尔，这个可恶的罗什福尔，由于他的伪装，欺骗了莱格斯先生，尽管他是个傻瓜。”

‘A ninny, indeed!’ said Porthos; ‘but is the matter certain?’
“真是个傻瓜！”波托斯说。 “但是事情确定了吗？”

‘I had it from Aramis,’ replied the Musketeer.
“我从阿拉米斯那里得到的，”火枪手回答道。

‘Indeed?’
'的确？'

‘Why, you knew it, Porthos,’ said Aramis. ‘I told you of it yesterday. Let us say no more about it.’
“哦，你知道的，波托斯，”阿拉米斯说。 ‘我昨天就告诉过你了。让我们不再多说吧。

‘Say no more about it? That’s YOUR opinion!’ replied Porthos.
‘不再说这个了吗？这是你的意见！”波尔托斯回答道。

‘Say no more about it! PESTE! You come to your conclusions quickly. What! The cardinal sets a spy upon a gentleman, has his letters stolen from him by means of a traitor, a brigand, a rascal-has, with the help of this spy and thanks to this correspondence, Chalais’s throat cut, under the stupid pretext that he wanted to kill the king and marry Monsieur to the queen! Nobody knew a word of this enigma. You unraveled it yesterday to the great satisfaction of all; and while we are still gaping with wonder at the news, you come and tell us today, ‘Let us say no more about it.’’
‘别再说了！害虫！你很快就会得出结论。什么！红衣主教在一位绅士身上设置了一个间谍，并通过叛徒、强盗、流氓的手段从他那里偷走了他的信件，在这个间谍的帮助下，由于这封信，查莱以愚蠢的借口被割断了喉咙他要杀掉国王，把先生嫁给王后！没有人知道这个谜的一个字。你昨天把它解开了，大家都非常满意；当我们仍然对这个消息感到惊讶时，你今天来告诉我们，“让我们不再谈论它。”

‘Well, then, let us talk about it, since you desire it,’ replied Aramis, patiently.
“好吧，那么，既然你愿意，我们就来谈谈吧。”阿拉米斯耐心地回答道。

‘This Rochefort,’ cried Porthos, ‘if I were the esquire of poor Chalais, should pass a minute or two very uncomfortably with me.’
“这个罗什福尔，”波尔托斯喊道，“如果我是可怜的查莱的侍从，他会和我一起度过一两分钟，感到非常不舒服。”

‘And you—you would pass rather a sad quarter-hour with the Red Duke,’ replied Aramis.
“而你——你会和红公爵一起度过悲伤的一刻钟，”阿拉米斯回答道。

‘Oh, the Red Duke! Bravo! Bravo! The Red Duke!’ cried Porthos, clapping his hands and nodding his head. ‘The Red Duke is capital. I’ll circulate that saying, be assured, my dear fellow. Who says this Aramis is not a wit? What a misfortune it is you did not follow your first vocation; what a delicious abbe you would have made!’
‘哦，红公爵！太棒了！太棒了！红公爵！”波尔托斯拍手点头，大声喊道。 ‘红公爵是资本。我会传播这句话，请放心，我亲爱的朋友。谁说这个阿拉米斯不是才子？你没有遵循你的第一份职业，这是多么不幸啊！你会做出多么美味的神父啊！

‘Oh, it’s only a temporary postponement,’ replied Aramis; ‘I shall be one someday. You very well know, Porthos, that I continue to study theology for that purpose.’
“哦，这只是暂时的推迟，”阿拉米斯回答道。 ‘总有一天我会成为其中一员。波托斯，你很清楚，我为了这个目的而继续学习神学。

‘He will be one, as he says,’ cried Porthos; ‘he will be one, sooner or later.’
“正如他所说，他将成为一体。”波尔托斯喊道。 “他迟早会成为其中之一。”

‘Sooner.’ said Aramis.
“更快。”阿拉米斯说。

‘He only waits for one thing to determine him to resume his cassock, which hangs behind his uniform,’ said another Musketeer.
另一位火枪手说：“他只等一件事决定他就穿上挂在制服后面的袈裟。”

‘What is he waiting for?’ asked another.
“他在等什么？”另一个人问道。

‘Only till the queen has given an heir to the crown of France.’
“直到女王指定法国王位继承人为止。”

‘No jesting upon that subject, gentlemen,’ said Porthos; ‘thank God the queen is still of an age to give one!’
“先生们，不要在这个问题上开玩笑，”波托斯说。 “感谢上帝，女王还到了送礼物的年龄！”

‘They say that Monsieur de Buckingham is in France,’ replied Aramis, with a significant smile which gave to this sentence, apparently so simple, a tolerably scandalous meaning.
“他们说白金汉先生在法国。”阿拉米斯回答道，脸上挂着意味深长的微笑，这使得这句话看似简单，却带有一种相当可耻的含义。

‘Aramis, my good friend, this time you are wrong,’ interrupted Porthos. ‘Your wit is always leading you beyond bounds; if Monsieur de Treville heard you, you would repent of speaking thus.’
“阿拉米斯，我的好朋友，这一次你错了，”波尔托斯打断道。 ‘你的智慧总是引领你超越界限；如果德特雷维尔先生听到你的话，你就会后悔这样说。

‘Are you going to give me a lesson, Porthos?’ cried Aramis, from whose usually mild eye a flash passed like lightning.
“波托斯，你要教训我吗？”阿拉米斯叫道，他一向温和的眼睛里闪过一道闪电般的光芒。

‘My dear fellow, be a Musketeer or an abbe. Be one or the other, but not both,’ replied Porthos. ‘You know what Athos told you the other day; you eat at everybody’s mess. Ah, don’t be angry, I beg of you, that would be useless; you know what is agreed upon between you, Athos and me. You go to Madame d’Aguillon’s, and you pay your court to her; you go to Madame de Bois-Tracy’s, the cousin of Madame de Chevreuse, and you pass for being far advanced in the good graces of that lady. Oh, good Lord! Don’t trouble yourself to reveal your good luck; no one asks for your secret-all the world knows your discretion. But since you possess that virtue, why the devil don’t you make use of it with respect to her Majesty? Let whoever likes talk of the king and the cardinal, and how he likes; but the queen is sacred, and if anyone speaks of her, let it be respectfully.’
“我亲爱的朋友，成为一名火枪手或一名神父。波尔托斯回答说，可以选择其中之一，但不能两者兼而有之。 “你知道阿多斯那天告诉你的；你吃每个人的烂摊子。啊，别生气了，求你了，那是没有用的；你知道你、阿托斯和我之间达成的协议。你去阿吉永夫人家，向她求情。你去了布瓦-特雷西夫人家，她是谢夫勒斯夫人的表弟，你被认为深受这位女士的青睐。噢，上帝啊！不要费力去透露你的好运；没有人问你的秘密——全世界都知道你的判断力。但你既然有这个德性，为什么不好好利用一下女王陛下呢？谁愿意谈论国王和红衣主教，就随他的喜好吧。但女王是神圣的，如果有人谈论她，请尊重她。”

‘Porthos, you are as vain as Narcissus; I plainly tell you so,’ replied Aramis. ‘You know I hate moralizing, except when it is done by Athos. As to you, good sir, you wear too magnificent a baldric to be strong on that head. I will be an abbe if it suits me. In the meanwhile I am a Musketeer; in that quality I say what I please, and at this moment it pleases me to say that you weary me.’
‘波尔托斯，你和那喀索斯一样虚荣；我直截了当地告诉你，”阿拉米斯回答道。 “你知道我讨厌说教，除非是阿多斯做的。至于你，好先生，你戴的佩饰太华丽了，戴在头上不太坚固。如果适合的话我会当神父。与此同时，我是一名火枪手；在这种品质下，我想说什么就说什么，此刻我很高兴地说你让我厌倦了。

‘Aramis!’
“阿拉米斯！”

‘Porthos!’
“波托斯！”

‘Gentlemen! Gentlemen!’ cried the surrounding group.
‘先生们！先生们！”周围的人喊道。

‘Monsieur de Treville awaits Monsieur d’Artagnan,’ cried a servant, throwing open the door of the cabinet.
“德特雷维尔先生正在等待达达尼昂先生，”一个仆人大声喊道，打开了柜门。

At this announcement, during which the door remained open, everyone became mute, and amid the general silence the young man crossed part of the length of the antechamber, and entered the apartment of the captain of the Musketeers, congratulating himself with all his heart at having so narrowly escaped the end of this strange quarrel.
听到这个消息，门一直开着，每个人都鸦雀无声，在一片寂静中，年轻人穿过前厅的一部分，走进火枪手队长的公寓，全心全意地庆幸自己这场奇怪的争吵差点就结束了。

3 THE AUDIENCE
3 观众

M. de Treville was at the moment in rather ill-humor, nevertheless he saluted the young man politely, who bowed to the very ground; and he smiled on receiving d’Artagnan’s response, the Bearnese accent of which recalled to him at the same time his youth and his country—a double remembrance which makes a man smile at all ages; but stepping toward the antechamber and making a sign to d’Artagnan with his hand, as if to ask his permission to finish with others before he began with him, he called three times, with a louder voice at each time, so that he ran through the intervening tones between the imperative accent and the angry accent.
德·特雷维尔先生此刻的心情相当不好，不过他还是礼貌地向年轻人行了个礼，而年轻人则跪倒在地。听到达达尼昂的回答，他笑了，那口音的贝阿内斯口音同时让他想起了他的青年时代和他的国家——这是一种双重的回忆，让所有年龄段的人都微笑起来。但他朝前厅走去，向达达尼昂做了个手势，仿佛是在请求他允许先与其他人结束，然后他叫了三声，声音一次比一次更大，于是他就跑了。通过祈使口音和愤怒口音之间的介入语气。

‘Athos! Porthos! Aramis!’
‘阿托斯！波托斯！阿拉米斯！

The two Musketeers with whom we have already made acquaintance, and who answered to the last of these three names, immediately quitted the group of which they had formed a part, and advanced toward the cabinet, the door of which closed after them as soon as they had entered. Their appearance, although it was not quite at ease, excited by its carelessness, at once full of dignity and submission, the admiration of d’Artagnan, who beheld in these two men demigods, and in their leader an Olympian Jupiter, armed with all his thunders.
我们已经认识的两个火枪手，他们回答了这三个名字中的最后一个，立即退出了他们所组成的队伍，并向内阁走去，内阁的门在他们身后关上了。他们进来了。他们的外表虽然不太自在，但由于粗心大意而兴奋，立刻充满了尊严和服从，达达尼昂的钦佩，达达尼昂在这两个人身上看到了半神，在他们的领袖身上看到了奥林匹亚的朱庇特，武装着所有的一切。他的雷声。

When the two Musketeers had entered; when the door was closed behind them; when the buzzing murmur of the antechamber, to which the summons which had been made had doubtless furnished fresh food, had recommenced; when M. de Treville had three or four times paced in silence, and with a frowning brow, the whole length of his cabinet, passing each time before Porthos and Aramis, who were as upright and silent as if on parade—he stopped all at once full in front of them, and covering them from head to foot with an angry look, ‘Do you know what the king said to me,’ cried he, ‘and that no longer ago than yesterday evening—do you know, gentlemen?’
当两个火枪手进来时；当门在他们身后关上时；当前厅里再次响起嗡嗡声时，毫无疑问，前厅里已经传来了新鲜的食物。当德·特雷维尔先生皱着眉头默默地踱步三四次时，他的整个内阁每次都经过波尔托斯和阿拉米斯面前，他们笔直而沉默，就像在游行一样——他全都停了下来。一旦在他们面前，用愤怒的目光从头到脚覆盖他们，“你们知道国王对我说了什么吗？”他喊道，“就在昨天晚上之前——你们知道吗，先生们？ '

‘No,’ replied the two Musketeers, after a moment’s silence, ‘no, sir, we do not.’
“不，”沉默了一会儿后，两个火枪手回答道，“不，先生，我们不知道。”

‘But I hope that you will do us the honor to tell us,’ added Aramis, in his politest tone and with his most graceful bow.
“但我希望你能荣幸地告诉我们，”阿拉米斯用最礼貌的语气和最优雅的鞠躬补充道。

‘He told me that he should henceforth recruit his Musketeers from among the Guards of Monsieur the Cardinal.’
“他告诉我，他应该从红衣主教先生的近卫军中招募火枪手。”

‘The Guards of the cardinal! And why so?’ asked Porthos, warmly.
‘红衣主教的卫队！为什么会这样呢？”波尔托斯热情地问道。

‘Because he plainly perceives that his piquette* stands in need of being enlivened by a mixture of good wine.’
“因为他清楚地意识到他的皮奎特*需要用优质葡萄酒来激发活力。”

*A watered liquor, made from the second pressing of the grape.
*一种兑水酒，由第二次压榨葡萄制成。

The two Musketeers reddened to the whites of their eyes. d’Artagnan did not know where he was, and wished himself a hundred feet underground.
两个火枪手的脸都红到了眼白。达达尼昂不知道自己在哪里，他希望自己在地下一百英尺处。

‘Yes, yes,’ continued M. de Treville, growing warmer as he spoke, ‘and his majesty was right; for, upon my honor, it is true that the Musketeers make but a miserable figure at court. The cardinal related yesterday while playing with the king, with an air of condolence very displeasing to me, that the day before yesterday those DAMNED MUSKETEERS, those DAREDEVILS—he dwelt upon those words with an ironical tone still more displeasing to me—those BRAGGARTS, added he, glancing at me with his tigercat’s eye, had made a riot in the Rue Ferou in a cabaret, and that a party of his Guards (I thought he was going to laugh in my face) had been forced to arrest the rioters! MORBLEU! You must know something about it. Arrest Musketeers! You were among them—you were! Don’t deny it; you were recognized, and the cardinal named you. But it’s all my fault; yes, it’s all my fault, because it is myself who selects my men. You, Aramis, why the devil did you ask me for a uniform when you would have been so much better in a cassock? And you, Porthos, do you only wear such a fine golden baldric to suspend a sword of straw from it? And Athos—I don’t see Athos. Where is he?’
“是的，是的，”德·特雷维尔先生继续说道，他的语气变得更加温暖，“陛下说得对。”因为，以我的名誉担保，火枪手在宫廷中确实是一个可怜的人物。红衣主教昨天在与国王玩耍时，带着一种令我非常不愉快的哀悼气氛，说前天那些该死的火枪手，那些胆大妄为的人——他用讽刺的语气详细讲述了这些话，更令我不快——那些吹牛的人，他用虎猫般的眼睛看了我一眼，补充道，他在费鲁街的一家歌舞厅里制造了一场骚乱，他的一队卫兵（我以为他会当面嘲笑我）被迫逮捕了骚乱者！莫布鲁！你一定对它有所了解。逮捕火枪手！你就在他们之中——你就是！不要否认；你被认出来了，红衣主教也给你点了名。但这都是我的错；是的，这都是我的错，因为是我自己选择了我的人。你，阿拉米斯，当你穿袈裟会好得多时，你为什么要向我要一套制服？而你，波托斯，难道你只戴这么精美的金色肩章，上面挂着一把稻草剑吗？还有阿多斯——我没有看到阿多斯。他在哪里？'

‘Ill—‘
'患病的-'

‘Very ill, say you? And of what malady?’
‘你说病得很重？又是什么病呢？

‘It is feared that it may be the smallpox, sir,’ replied Porthos, desirous of taking his turn in the conversation; ‘and what is serious is that it will certainly spoil his face.’
“先生，恐怕是天花，”波托斯回答道，他想轮流说话。 “而且严重的是，这肯定会毁了他的脸。”

‘The smallpox! That’s a great story to tell me, Porthos! Sick of the smallpox at his age! No, no; but wounded without doubt, killed, perhaps. Ah, if I knew! S’blood! Messieurs Musketeers, I will not have this haunting of bad places, this quarreling in the streets, this swordplay at the crossways; and above all, I will not have occasion given for the cardinal’s Guards, who are brave, quiet, skillful men who never put themselves in a position to be arrested, and who, besides, never allow themselves to be arrested, to laugh at you! I am sure of it—they would prefer dying on the spot to being arrested or taking back a step. To save yourselves, to scamper away, to flee—that is good for the king’s Musketeers!’
‘天花！这是一个很棒的故事，波托斯！他这个年纪就得天花了！不，不;但毫无疑问是受伤了，也许是被杀了。啊，如果我知道就好了！血！火枪手们，我不会再去那些令人难以忘怀的坏地方，不会在街上吵架，不会在十字路口打剑；最重要的是，我不会给红衣主教的卫兵们嘲笑你的机会，他们是勇敢、安静、熟练的人，他们从不把自己置于被逮捕的境地，而且也从不让自己被逮捕。 ！我确信这一点——他们宁愿当场死亡，也不愿被捕或后退。自救，逃走，逃跑——这对国王的火枪手来说是件好事！

Porthos and Aramis trembled with rage. They could willingly have strangled M. de Treville, if, at the bottom of all this, they had not felt it was the great love he bore them which made him speak thus. They stamped upon the carpet with their feet; they bit their lips till the blood came, and grasped the hilts of their swords with all their might. All without had heard, as we have said, Athos, Porthos, and Aramis called, and had guessed, from M. de Treville’s tone of voice, that he was very angry about something. Ten curious heads were glued to the tapestry and became pale with fury; for their ears, closely applied to the door, did not lose a syllable of what he said, while their mouths repeated as he went on, the insulting expressions of the captain to all the people in the antechamber. In an instant, from the door of the cabinet to the street gate, the whole hotel was boiling.
波托斯和阿拉米斯气得浑身发抖。如果从根本上来说，他们没有感觉到德特雷维尔先生对他们怀有极大的爱，才让他说出这样的话，他们本可以心甘情愿地掐死德特雷维尔先生。他们用脚跺着地毯；他们咬紧嘴唇，直至流血，并用尽全力握住剑柄。正如我们所说，外面的人都听到阿托斯、波尔托斯和阿拉米斯打来电话，并从德特雷维尔先生的语气中猜到他对某件事非常生气。十个好奇的脑袋粘在挂毯上，气得脸色苍白。因为他们的耳朵紧贴在门上，没有漏掉他所说的话，而他们的嘴则随着他的继续而重复着船长对前厅里所有人的侮辱性表情。瞬间，从柜门到街门，整个酒店都沸腾了。

‘Ah! The king’s Musketeers are arrested by the Guards of the cardinal, are they?’ continued M. de Treville, as furious at heart as his soldiers, but emphasizing his words and plunging them, one by one, so to say, like so many blows of a stiletto, into the bosoms of his auditors. ‘What! Six of his Eminence’s Guards arrest six of his Majesty’s Musketeers! MORBLEU! My part is taken! I will go straight to the louvre; I will give in my resignation as captain of the king’s Musketeers to take a lieutenancy in the cardinal’s Guards, and if he refuses me, MORBLEU! I will turn abbe.’
'啊！国王的火枪手们被红衣主教的卫兵逮捕了，是吗？”德·特雷维尔先生继续说道，他的内心和他的士兵一样愤怒，但他强调了他的话，并把它们一一猛击，可以说，就像多次打击一样一把高跟鞋，进入他的听众的怀抱。 '什么！六名陛下的近卫逮捕了六名陛下的火枪手！莫布鲁！我的部分被占据了！我会直奔卢浮宫；我将辞去国王火枪手队长的职务，转而在红衣主教的卫队中担任中尉，如果他拒绝我，莫布卢！我将成为神父。

At these words, the murmur without became an explosion; nothing was to be heard but oaths and blasphemies. The MORBLEUS, the SANG DIEUS, the MORTS TOUTS LES DIABLES, crossed one another in the air. D’Artagnan looked for some tapestry behind which he might hide himself, and felt an immense inclination to crawl under the table.
此话一出，外面的低语声变成了爆炸声；除了咒骂和亵渎之外，什么也听不到。莫布鲁斯、桑迪厄斯、莫尔茨·图茨·莱斯·迪亚布尔斯在空中相互交叉。达达尼昂寻找着一块挂毯，可以把自己藏在后面，他非常想爬到桌子底下。

‘Well, my Captain,’ said Porthos, quite beside himself, ‘the truth is that we were six against six. But we were not captured by fair means; and before we had time to draw our swords, two of our party were dead, and Athos, grievously wounded, was very little better. For you know Athos. Well, Captain, he endeavored twice to get up, and fell again twice. And we did not surrender—no! They dragged us away by force. On the way we escaped. As for Athos, they believed him to be dead, and left him very quiet on the field of battle, not thinking it worth the trouble to carry him away. That’s the whole story. What the devil, Captain, one cannot win all one’s battles! The great Pompey lost that of Pharsalia; and Francis the First, who was, as I have heard say, as good as other folks, nevertheless lost the Battle of Pavia.’
“好吧，我的队长，”波托斯说道，他简直要疯了，“事实是我们是六人对六人。但我们并不是被正当手段俘虏的；我们还没来得及拔出剑，我们的两个人就死了，阿多斯受了重伤，情况也好不到哪里去。因为你知道阿托斯。好吧，队长，他两次努力站起来，又两次摔倒。我们没有投降——不！他们强行把我们拖走。我们逃亡的路上。至于阿托斯，他们相信他已经死了，并把他留在战场上，非常安静，认为不值得费力把他带走。这就是整个故事。天哪，队长，一个人不可能赢得所有的战斗！伟大的庞培失去了法萨利亚；正如我听说的那样，弗朗西斯一世和其他人一样优秀，但他却输掉了帕维亚战役。

‘And I have the honor of assuring you that I killed one of them with his own sword,’ said Aramis; ‘for mine was broken at the first parry. Killed him, or poniarded him, sir, as is most agreeable to you.’
“我很荣幸向你保证，我用其中一个人自己的剑杀死了他，”阿拉米斯说道。 “因为我的第一次招架就被打破了。杀掉他，或者刺死他，先生，只要您最满意就行。”

‘I did not know that,’ replied M. de Treville, in a somewhat softened tone. ‘The cardinal exaggerated, as I perceive.’
“我不知道，”德特雷维尔先生回答道，语气有些柔和。 “据我所知，红衣主教言过其实了。”

‘But pray, sir,’ continued Aramis, who, seeing his captain become appeased, ventured to risk a prayer, ‘do not say that Athos is wounded. He would be in despair if that should come to the ears of the king; and as the wound is very serious, seeing that after crossing the shoulder it penetrates into the chest, it is to be feared—‘
“但是请祈祷，先生，”阿拉米斯继续说道，看到他的队长变得平静，他冒险冒险祈祷，“不要说阿多斯受伤了。”如果这件事传到国王耳中，他会感到绝望。而且伤势十分严重，越过肩膀后就深入到了胸口，可怕的是——”

At this instant the tapestry was raised and a noble and handsome head, but frightfully pale, appeared under the fringe.
就在这时，挂毯被掀了起来，刘海下露出了一颗高贵英俊，但苍白得可怕的头像。

‘Athos!’ cried the two Musketeers.
“阿托斯！”两个火枪手喊道。

‘Athos!’ repeated M. de Treville himself.
“阿多斯！”德·特雷维尔先生亲自重复道。

‘You have sent for me, sir,’ said Athos to M. de Treville, in a feeble yet perfectly calm voice, ‘you have sent for me, as my comrades inform me, and I have hastened to receive your orders. I am here; what do you want with me?’
“您派人来找我了，先生，”阿多斯对德·特雷维尔先生说，声音微弱却十分平静，“正如我的同志们告诉我的那样，您派人来找我了，我已赶紧接受您的命令。我在这里;你想和我做什么？'

And at these words, the Musketeer, in irreproachable costume, belted as usual, with a tolerably firm step, entered the cabinet. M. de Treville, moved to the bottom of his heart by this proof of courage, sprang toward him.
说完这句话，火枪手穿着无可挑剔的服装，像往常一样系着腰带，迈着相当坚定的步伐走进了柜子。德·特雷维尔先生被他的勇气所感动，向他扑了过来。

‘I was about to say to these gentlemen,’ added he, ‘that I forbid my Musketeers to expose their lives needlessly; for brave men are very dear to the king, and the king knows that his Musketeers are the bravest on the earth. Your hand, Athos!’
“我正要对这些先生们说，”他补充道，“我禁止我的火枪手不必要地暴露他们的生命；因为国王非常喜爱勇敢的人，而国王也知道他的火枪手是地球上最勇敢的人。你的手，阿托斯！

And without waiting for the answer of the newcomer to this proof of affection, M. de Treville seized his right hand and pressed it with all his might, without perceiving that Athos, whatever might be his self-command, allowed a slight murmur of pain to escape him, and if possible, grew paler than he was before.
德·特雷维尔先生没等新来者对这份爱意的回答，就抓住了他的右手，用尽全身的力气，没有意识到阿多斯，无论他的自我控制能力如何，都允许他发出轻微的痛苦低语。逃离他，如果可能的话，他会变得比以前更苍白。

The door had remained open, so strong was the excitement produced by the arrival of Athos, whose wound, though kept as a secret, was known to all. A burst of satisfaction hailed the last words of the captain; and two or three heads, carried away by the enthusiasm of the moment, appeared through the openings of the tapestry. M. de Treville was about to reprehend this breach of the rules of etiquette, when he felt the hand of Athos, who had rallied all his energies to contend against pain, at length overcome by it, fell upon the floor as if he were dead.
门一直开着，阿托斯的到来引起了如此强烈的兴奋，他的伤口虽然保密，但却是众所周知的。船长的最后一句话让一阵满意的欢呼声响起。两三个脑袋被一时的热情冲昏了头脑，从挂毯的开口处探了出来。德·特雷维尔先生正要谴责这种违反礼节的行为，这时他感到阿多斯的手掉在了地板上，他用尽全身的力量来对抗疼痛，最终被疼痛所克服，就像他死了一样。 。

‘A surgeon!’ cried M. de Treville, ‘mine! The king’s! The best! A surgeon! Or, s’blood, my brave Athos will die!’
“一位外科医生！”德特雷维尔先生喊道，“我的！国王的！最好的！外科医生！或者，天哪，我勇敢的阿托斯会死！

At the cries of M. de Treville, the whole assemblage rushed into the cabinet, he not thinking to shut the door against anyone, and all crowded round the wounded man. But all this eager attention might have been useless if the doctor so loudly called for had not chanced to be in the hotel. He pushed through the crowd, approached Athos, still insensible, and as all this noise and commotion inconvenienced him greatly, he required, as the first and most urgent thing, that the Musketeer should be carried into an adjoining chamber. Immediately M. de Treville opened and pointed the way to Porthos and Aramis, who bore their comrade in their arms. Behind this group walked the surgeon; and behind the surgeon the door closed.
听到德·特雷维尔先生的叫声，所有人都冲进了柜子，他没有想到要关上门不让任何人看到，大家都围住了那个受伤的人。但如果大声呼唤的医生没有碰巧在酒店里，所有这些热切的关注可能都是无用的。他挤过人群，来到了仍然昏迷不醒的阿多斯身边，由于所有这些噪音和骚动给他带来了极大的不便，他要求，作为第一件也是最紧急的事情，把火枪手抬到隔壁的房间里。德·特雷维尔先生立刻开口，给波尔托斯和阿拉米斯指路，他们怀里抱着他们的战友。在这群人后面走的是外科医生。外科医生身后的门关上了。

The cabinet of M. de Treville, generally held so sacred, became in an instant the annex of the antechamber. Everyone spoke, harangued, and vociferated, swearing, cursing, and consigning the cardinal and his Guards to all the devils.
德·特雷维尔先生的内阁通常被认为是神圣的，但转眼间就变成了前厅的附属部分。每个人都在说话、长篇大论、大声喧哗、咒骂、咒骂，并将红衣主教和他的卫队交给所有魔鬼。

An instant after, Porthos and Aramis re-entered, the surgeon and M. de Treville alone remaining with the wounded.
不久之后，波托斯和阿拉米斯重新进入，只剩下外科医生和德特雷维尔先生照顾伤员。

At length, M. de Treville himself returned. The injured man had recovered his senses. The surgeon declared that the situation of the Musketeer had nothing in it to render his friends uneasy, his weakness having been purely and simply caused by loss of blood.
最后，德·特雷维尔先生亲自回来了。受伤的男子已经恢复了知觉。外科医生宣称，火枪手的情况并没有让他的朋友们感到不安，他的虚弱纯粹是由于失血造成的。

Then M. de Treville made a sign with his hand, and all retired except d’Artagnan, who did not forget that he had an audience, and with the tenacity of a Gascon remained in his place.
然后德·特雷维尔先生用手做了个手势，除了达达尼昂之外，所有人都退场了，达达尼昂没有忘记他有一个听众，并以加斯科尼人的坚韧留在了自己的位置上。

When all had gone out and the door was closed, M. de Treville, on turning round, found himself alone with the young man. The event which had occurred had in some degree broken the thread of his ideas. He inquired what was the will of his persevering visitor. d’Artagnan then repeated his name, and in an instant recovering all his remembrances of the present and the past, M. de Treville grasped the situation.
等所有人都出去了，门也关上了，德·特雷维尔先生一转身，发现自己和年轻人单独在一起。所发生的事件在某种程度上打断了他的思路。他询问这位不屈不挠的访客有何意愿。达达尼昂又重复了一遍他的名字，德特雷维尔先生立即恢复了对现在和过去的所有记忆，掌握了情况。

‘Pardon me,’ said he, smiling, ‘pardon me my dear compatriot, but I had wholly forgotten you. But what help is there for it! A captain is nothing but a father of a family, charged with even a greater responsibility than the father of an ordinary family. Soldiers are big children; but as I maintain that the orders of the king, and more particularly the orders of the cardinal, should be executed—‘
“请原谅，”他微笑着说，“请原谅我亲爱的同胞，但我完全忘记了你。”但这有什么帮助呢！队长只不过是一个家庭的父亲，肩负着比普通家庭的父亲更大的责任。军人是大孩子；但我坚持认为，国王的命令，尤其是红衣主教的命令，应该得到执行——”

D’Artagnan could not restrain a smile. By this smile M. de Treville judged that he had not to deal with a fool, and changing the conversation, came straight to the point.
达达尼昂忍不住笑了。德·特雷维尔先生看到这个笑容，判断自己不必跟一个傻瓜打交道，于是改变话题，开门见山。

‘I respected your father very much,’ said he. ‘What can I do for the son? Tell me quickly; my time is not my own.’
“我非常尊重你的父亲，”他说。 ‘我能为儿子做什么？快告诉我；我的时间不属于我自己。

‘Monsieur,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘on quitting Tarbes and coming hither, it was my intention to request of you, in remembrance of the friendship which you have not forgotten, the uniform of a Musketeer; but after all that I have seen during the last two hours, I comprehend that such a favor is enormous, and tremble lest I should not merit it.’
“先生，”达达尼昂说道，“离开塔布来到这里时，为了纪念您没有忘记的友谊，我想向您索要一件火枪手的制服；但在过去两个小时里我所看到的一切之后，我明白这样的恩惠是巨大的，我担心我不应该得到它。

‘It is indeed a favor, young man,’ replied M. de Treville, ‘but it may not be so far beyond your hopes as you believe, or rather as you appear to believe. But his majesty’s decision is always necessary; and I inform you with regret that no one becomes a Musketeer without the preliminary ordeal of several campaigns, certain brilliant actions, or a service of two years in some other regiment less favored than ours.’
“这确实是一个恩惠，年轻人，”德·特雷维尔先生回答说，“但它可能并不像你所相信的那样远远超出你的希望，或者更确切地说，不像你看起来相信的那样。但陛下的决定总是必要的；我遗憾地告诉你，如果没有经过几次战役的初步考验、某些出色的行动，或者在其他不如我们的团服役两年，没有人能成为一名火枪手。

D’Artagnan bowed without replying, feeling his desire to don the Musketeer’s uniform vastly increased by the great difficulties which preceded the attainment of it.
达达尼昂鞠了一躬，没有回答，他感到自己穿上火枪手制服的愿望因在实现这一目标之前遇到的巨大困难而大大增加。

‘But,’ continued M. de Treville, fixing upon his compatriot a look so piercing that it might be said he wished to read the thoughts of his heart, ‘on account of my old companion, your father, as I have said, I will do something for you, young man. Our recruits from Bearn are not generally very rich, and I have no reason to think matters have much changed in this respect since I left the province. I dare say you have not brought too large a stock of money with you?’
“但是，”德·特雷维尔先生继续说道，他的目光如此锐利，可以说他想读懂他内心的想法，“因为我的老伙伴，你的父亲，正如我所说的，我会为你做点什么，年轻人。我们从贝恩来的新兵一般都不是很富有，我没有理由认为自从我离开这个省以来，这方面的情况发生了很大的变化。我敢说你身上没有带太多的钱吧？

D’Artagnan drew himself up with a proud air which plainly said, ‘I ask alms of no man.’
达达尼昂摆出一副骄傲的样子，直截了当地说：“我不向任何人乞讨。”

‘Oh, that’s very well, young man,’ continued M. de Treville, ‘that’s all very well. I know these airs; I myself came to Paris with four crowns in my purse, and would have fought with anyone who dared to tell me I was not in a condition to purchase the Louvre.’
“噢，那很好，年轻人，”德特雷维尔先生继续说道，“那很好。”我了解这些气氛；我本人钱包里装着四枚王冠来到巴黎，如果有人胆敢告诉我我没有能力购买卢浮宫，我会与任何人战斗。

D’Artagnan’s bearing became still more imposing. Thanks to the sale of his horse, he commenced his career with four more crowns than M. de Treville possessed at the commencement of his.
达达尼昂的气势变得更加威严。由于出售了他的马，他在职业生涯开始时比德·特雷维尔先生在职业生涯开始时多获得了四个王冠。

‘You ought, I say, then, to husband the means you have, however large the sum may be; but you ought also to endeavor to perfect yourself in the exercises becoming a gentleman. I will write a letter today to the Director of the Royal Academy, and tomorrow he will admit you without any expense to yourself. Do not refuse this little service. Our best-born and richest gentlemen sometimes solicit it without being able to obtain it. You will learn horsemanship, swordsmanship in all its branches, and dancing. You will make some desirable acquaintances; and from time to time you can call upon me, just to tell me how you are getting on, and to say whether I can be of further service to you.’
“那么，我说，你应该节约你所拥有的钱财，无论数额有多大；但你也应该努力在成为绅士的练习中完善自己。今天我会写一封信给皇家学院院长，明天他就会录取你，而且你不需要支付任何费用。不要拒绝这个小服务。我们出身最优秀、最富有的绅士有时会索取它，但无法获得。你将学习马术、各门派的剑术和舞蹈。你会结识一些令人向往的朋友；你可以时不时地来找我，告诉我你过得怎么样，并告诉我是否可以为你提供进一步的服务。

D’Artagnan, stranger as he was to all the manners of a court, could not but perceive a little coldness in this reception.
达达尼昂虽然对宫廷礼仪很陌生，但他在这种接待中不禁感到一丝冷淡。

‘Alas, sir,’ said he, ‘I cannot but perceive how sadly I miss the letter of introduction which my father gave me to present to you.’
“唉，先生，”他说，“我无法不体会到，我多么遗憾地怀念父亲交给我的介绍信。”

‘I certainly am surprised,’ replied M. de Treville, ‘that you should undertake so long a journey without that necessary passport, the sole resource of us poor Bearnese.’
“我确实很惊讶，”德·特雷维尔先生回答说，“你竟然在没有必要的护照的情况下进行了这么长的旅行，而护照是我们可怜的贝阿内塞人的唯一资源。”

‘I had one, sir, and, thank God, such as I could wish,’ cried d’Artagnan; ‘but it was perfidiously stolen from me.’
“我有一个，先生，而且，感谢上帝，正如我所希望的那样，”达达尼昂喊道。 “但它是被人恶意从我这里偷走的。”

He then related the adventure of Meung, described the unknown gentleman with the greatest minuteness, and all with a warmth and truthfulness that delighted M. de Treville.
然后他讲述了默恩的冒险经历，极其细致地描述了这位不知名的绅士，所有的一切都充满了温暖和真实，这让德特雷维尔先生很高兴。

‘This is all very strange,’ said M. de Treville, after meditating a minute; ‘you mentioned my name, then, aloud?’
“这一切都很奇怪，”德特雷维尔先生沉思了一分钟后说道。 “那么，你大声提到了我的名字？”

‘Yes, sir, I certainly committed that imprudence; but why should I have done otherwise? A name like yours must be as a buckler to me on my way. Judge if I should not put myself under its protection.’
“是的，先生，我确实犯了这种轻率的行为；但我为什么要不这样做呢？像你这样的名字一定会成为我路上的盾牌。判断一下我是否不应该将自己置于它的保护之下。

Flattery was at that period very current, and M. de Treville loved incense as well as a king, or even a cardinal. He could not refrain from a smile of visible satisfaction; but this smile soon disappeared, and returning to the adventure of Meung, ‘Tell me,’ continued he, ‘had not this gentlemen a slight scar on his cheek?’
当时阿谀奉承很盛行，德·特雷维尔先生像国王甚至红衣主教一样热爱香火。他忍不住露出了明显满足的微笑。但笑容很快就消失了，回到了默恩的冒险，“告诉我，”他继续说，“这位先生的脸颊上不是有一道轻微的疤痕吗？”

‘Yes, such a one as would be made by the grazing of a ball.’
“是的，就像一个球被擦过一样。”

‘Was he not a fine-looking man?’
“他不是一个英俊的男人吗？”

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘Of lofty stature.’
“身材高大。”

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘Of complexion and brown hair?’
“肤色和棕色头发？”

‘Yes, yes, that is he; how is it, sir, that you are acquainted with this man? If I ever find him again—and I will find him, I swear, were it in hell!’
‘是的，是的，就是他；先生，您是怎么认识这个人的？如果我再次找到他——我发誓，即使是在地狱，我也会找到他！

‘He was waiting for a woman,’ continued Treville.
“他在等一个女人，”特雷维尔继续说道。

‘He departed immediately after having conversed for a minute with her whom he awaited.’
“他与等待的她交谈了一分钟后立即离开了。”

‘You know not the subject of their conversation?’
“你不知道他们谈话的主题吗？”

‘He gave her a box, told her not to open it except in London.’
“他给了她一个盒子，告诉她除了伦敦以外不要打开它。”

‘Was this woman English?’
“这个女人是英国人吗？”

‘He called her Milady.’
“他叫她米拉迪。”

‘It is he; it must be he!’ murmured Treville. ‘I believed him still at Brussels.’
‘是他；一定是他！”特雷维尔低声说道。 “我相信他还在布鲁塞尔。”

‘Oh, sir, if you know who this man is,’ cried d’Artagnan, ‘tell me who he is, and whence he is. I will then release you from all your promises—even that of procuring my admission into the Musketeers; for before everything, I wish to avenge myself.’
“噢，先生，如果您知道这个人是谁，”达达尼昂喊道，“请告诉我他是谁，从哪里来。”然后我将解除你所有的承诺——甚至包括让我加入火枪手的承诺；因为在这一切之前，我想为自己报仇。

‘Beware, young man!’ cried Treville. ‘If you see him coming on one side of the street, pass by on the other. Do not cast yourself against such a rock; he would break you like glass.’
“小心，年轻人！”特雷维尔喊道。 “如果你看到他从街道的一侧过来，就从另一侧过去。不要把自己撞到这样的岩石上；他会像玻璃一样打碎你。”

‘That will not prevent me,’ replied d’Artagnan, ‘if ever I find him.’
“这不会阻止我，”达达尼昂回答说，“如果我找到他的话。”

‘In the meantime,’ said Treville, ‘seek him not—if I have a right to advise you.’
“与此同时，”特雷维尔说，“如果我有权给你建议的话，就不要去找他了。”

All at once the captain stopped, as if struck by a sudden suspicion. This great hatred which the young traveler manifested so loudly for this man, who—a rather improbable thing—had stolen his father’s letter from him—was there not some perfidy concealed under this hatred? Might not this young man be sent by his Eminence? Might he not have come for the purpose of laying a snare for him? This pretended d’Artagnan—was he not an emissary of the cardinal, whom the cardinal sought to introduce into Treville’s house, to place near him, to win his confidence, and afterward to ruin him as had been done in a thousand other instances? He fixed his eyes upon d’Artagnan even more earnestly than before. He was moderately reassured however, by the aspect of that countenance, full of astute intelligence and affected humility. ‘I know he is a Gascon,’ reflected he, ‘but he may be one for the cardinal as well as for me. Let us try him.’
突然，船长停了下来，仿佛突然受到怀疑。年轻的旅行者对这个人表现出如此大的仇恨，这个人——这是一件相当不可能的事情——偷走了他父亲的信——这种仇恨之下难道没有隐藏着某种背信弃义吗？这年轻人该不会是殿下派来的吧？莫非他来就是为了给他设下圈套的？这个冒充的达达尼昂——难道他不是红衣主教的使者吗？红衣主教试图把他介绍到特雷维尔的家里，让他靠近他，赢得他的信任，然后像其他上千个例子一样毁掉他？他比以前更加认真地注视着达达尼昂。不过，看到那张充满精明智慧和假装谦虚的面容，他多少放心了。 “我知道他是加斯科尼人，”他反映道，“但他可能是红衣主教和我的人。让我们试试他吧。

‘My friend,’ said he, slowly, ‘I wish, as the son of an ancient friend—for I consider this story of the lost letter perfectly true—I wish, I say, in order to repair the coldness you may have remarked in my reception of you, to discover to you the secrets of our policy. The king and the cardinal are the best of friends; their apparent bickerings are only feints to deceive fools. I am not willing that a compatriot, a handsome cavalier, a brave youth, quite fit to make his way, should become the dupe of all these artifices and fall into the snare after the example of so many others who have been ruined by it. Be assured that I am devoted to both these all-powerful masters, and that my earnest endeavors have no other aim than the service of the king, and also the cardinal—one of the most illustrious geniuses that France has ever produced.
“我的朋友，”他慢慢地说，“作为一位远古朋友的儿子，我希望——因为我认为丢失信件的故事是完全真实的——我希望，我说，是为了修复你可能已经评论过的冷漠。”在我接待您的过程中，我向您揭示了我们政策的秘密。国王和红衣主教是最好的朋友；他们表面上的争吵只是为了欺骗傻瓜而做的佯攻。我不希望一个同胞，一个英俊的骑士，一个勇敢的青年，完全有资格走自己的路，却成为所有这些诡计的骗子，并在许多被它毁掉的人的榜样之后落入陷阱。请放心，我忠于这两位全能的主人，我的真诚努力除了为国王和红衣主教服务外没有其他目的——法国有史以来最杰出的天才之一。

‘Now, young man, regulate your conduct accordingly; and if you entertain, whether from your family, your relations, or even from your instincts, any of these enmities which we see constantly breaking out against the cardinal, bid me adieu and let us separate. I will aid you in many ways, but without attaching you to my person. I hope that my frankness at least will make you my friend; for you are the only young man to whom I have hitherto spoken as I have done to you.’
‘现在，年轻人，相应地规范你的行为；如果你对红衣主教不断爆发的敌意，无论是来自你的家人、你的亲戚，甚至是你的本能，请跟我告别，让我们分开。我会在很多方面帮助你，但不会让你依附于我。我希望我的坦诚至少能让你成为我的朋友；因为你是迄今为止我唯一对你说过话的年轻人。

Treville said to himself: ‘If the cardinal has set this young fox upon me, he will certainly not have failed—he, who knows how bitterly I execrate him—to tell his spy that the best means of making his court to me is to rail at him. Therefore, in spite of all my protestations, if it be as I suspect, my cunning gossip will assure me that he holds his Eminence in horror.’
特雷维尔自言自语道：“如果红衣主教派这只小狐狸来对付我，他一定不会失败——他知道我多么严厉地咒骂他——告诉他的间谍，向我求爱的最好方法就是咒骂他。因此，尽管我提出了所有的抗议，但如果真如我所怀疑的那样，我狡猾的流言会让我确信他对他的主教地位感到恐惧。

It, however, proved otherwise. D’Artagnan answered, with the greatest simplicity: ‘I came to Paris with exactly such intentions. My father advised me to stoop to nobody but the king, the cardinal, and yourself—whom he considered the first three personages in France.’
然而事实证明并非如此。达达尼昂极其简单地回答道：“我正是怀着这样的目的来到巴黎的。”我的父亲建议我除了国王、红衣主教和你自己之外不要屈服于任何人——他认为他们是法国的前三名人物。

D’Artagnan added M. de Treville to the others, as may be perceived; but he thought this addition would do no harm.
达达尼昂将德特雷维尔先生加入到其他人之中，这一点可以看出。但他认为添加这一点不会有什么坏处。

‘I have the greatest veneration for the cardinal,’ continued he, ‘and the most profound respect for his actions. So much the better for me, sir, if you speak to me, as you say, with frankness—for then you will do me the honor to esteem the resemblance of our opinions; but if you have entertained any doubt, as naturally you may, I feel that I am ruining myself by speaking the truth. But I still trust you will not esteem me the less for it, and that is my object beyond all others.’
“我对红衣主教怀有最大的敬意，”他继续说道，“并对他的行为表示最深切的敬意。先生，如果你像你所说的那样坦率地对我说话，那对我来说就更好了——因为那样你就会很荣幸地尊重我们观点的相似性；但如果你有任何疑问（这是理所当然的），我觉得我说实话正在毁掉自己。但我仍然相信你不会因此而降低对我的尊重，这是我最重要的目标。

M. de Treville was surprised to the greatest degree. So much penetration, so much frankness, created admiration, but did not entirely remove his suspicions. The more this young man was superior to others, the more he was to be dreaded if he meant to deceive him; ‘You are an honest youth; but at the present moment I can only do for you that which I just now offered. My hotel will be always open to you. Hereafter, being able to ask for me at all hours, and consequently to take advantage of all opportunities, you will probably obtain that which you desire.’
德特雷维尔先生感到非常惊讶。如此多的洞察力，如此多的坦诚，令人钦佩，但并没有完全消除他的怀疑。这个年轻人越是高人一等，如果他存心欺骗他，就越是让人忌惮。 ‘你是一个诚实的青年；但目前我只能为你做我刚才提出的事情。我的酒店将永远向您开放。今后，你能够随时向我询问，从而利用一切机会，你很可能会得到你想要的东西。”

‘That is to say,’ replied d’Artagnan, ‘that you will wait until I have proved myself worthy of it. Well, be assured,’ added he, with the familiarity of a Gascon, ‘you shall not wait long.’ And he bowed in order to retire, and as if he considered the future in his own hands.
“也就是说，”达达尼昂回答说，“你要等到我证明自己配得上这个职位。”好吧，请放心，”他用加斯科涅人的熟悉语气补充道，“你不会等太久的。”然后他鞠了一躬，打算退下，仿佛他正在考虑自己手中的未来。

‘But wait a minute,’ said M. de Treville, stopping him. ‘I promised you a letter for the director of the Academy. Are you too proud to accept it, young gentleman?’
“但是等一下，”德特雷维尔先生阻止了他。 “我答应你写一封给学院院长的信。年轻的先生，您是否太骄傲而无法接受？

‘No, sir,’ said d’Artagnan; ‘and I will guard it so carefully that I will be sworn it shall arrive at its address, and woe be to him who shall attempt to take it from me!’
“不，先生，”达达尼昂说。 “我会小心翼翼地守护它，我发誓它会到达它的地址，而那些试图从我手中夺走它的人就有祸了！”

M. de Treville smiled at this flourish; and leaving his young man compatriot in the embrasure of the window, where they had talked together, he seated himself at a table in order to write the promised letter of recommendation. While he was doing this, d’Artagnan, having no better employment, amused himself with beating a march upon the window and with looking at the Musketeers, who went away, one after another, following them with his eyes until they disappeared.
德特雷维尔先生对这种华丽的表现笑了。他把他的年轻同胞留在窗边，他们曾在那里交谈过，他自己坐在一张桌子旁，准备写承诺的推荐信。达达尼昂一边做这件事，一边没有更好的工作，就在窗户上敲打着，看着火枪手们，他们一个接一个地走开，眼睛跟着他们，直到他们消失。

M. de Treville, after having written the letter, sealed it, and rising, approached the young man in order to give it to him. But at the very moment when d’Artagnan stretched out his hand to receive it, M. de Treville was highly astonished to see his protege make a sudden spring, become crimson with passion, and rush from the cabinet crying, ‘S’blood, he shall not escape me this time!’
德·特雷维尔先生写完信后，将其封好，站起身来，走到年轻人面前，要把信交给他。但就在达达尼昂伸手接过它的那一刻，德·特雷维尔先生非常惊讶地看到他的门生突然跳了起来，激动得满脸通红，从柜子里冲出来，喊道：“血，”这次他不会再逃避我了！

‘And who?’ asked M. de Treville.
“那谁呢？”德·特雷维尔先生问道。

‘He, my thief!’ replied d’Artagnan. ‘Ah, the traitor!’ and he disappeared.
“他，我的小偷！”达达尼昂回答道。 “啊，叛徒！”然后他就消失了。

‘The devil take the madman!’ murmured M. de Treville, ‘unless,’ added he, ‘this is a cunning mode of escaping, seeing that he had failed in his purpose!’
“疯子见鬼去吧！”德特雷维尔先生低声说道，“除非，”他补充道，“这是一种狡猾的逃跑方式，因为他的目的已经失败了！”

4 THE SHOULDER OF ATHOS, THE BALDRIC OF PORTHOS AND THE
4 阿托斯的肩膀、波托斯的佩饰和

HANDKERCHIEF OF ARAMIS
阿拉米斯的手帕

D’Artagnan, in a state of fury, crossed the antechamber at three bounds, and was darting toward the stairs, which he reckoned upon descending four at a time, when, in his heedless course, he ran head foremost against a Musketeer who was coming out of one of M. de Treville’s private rooms, and striking his shoulder violently, made him utter a cry, or rather a howl.
达达尼昂盛怒之下，三步跨过前厅，冲向楼梯，他估计楼梯一次要下四层，就在他粗心大意的过程中，他头朝前撞上了一个火枪手。从德·特雷维尔先生的一间私人房间里出来，猛烈地拍打他的肩膀，使他发出一声叫喊，或者更确切地说是一声嚎叫。

‘Excuse me,’ said d’Artagnan, endeavoring to resume his course, ‘excuse me, but I am in a hurry.’
“对不起，”达达尼昂说，努力继续他的行程，“对不起，但我很着急。”

Scarcely had he descended the first stair, when a hand of iron seized him by the belt and stopped him.
他刚走下第一级楼梯，一只铁手就抓住了他的腰带，把他拦住了。

‘You are in a hurry?’ said the Musketeer, as pale as a sheet. ‘Under that pretense you run against me! You say. ‘Excuse me,’ and you believe that is sufficient? Not at all my young man. Do you fancy because you have heard Monsieur de Treville speak to us a little cavalierly today that other people are to treat us as he speaks to us? Undeceive yourself, comrade, you are not Monsieur de Treville.’
“你很着急吗？”火枪手脸色苍白地说。 ‘你就打着这个幌子跟我对抗！你说。 “对不起”，你认为这就足够了吗？根本不是我的年轻人。你今天听到德特雷维尔先生对我们说话有点傲慢，你是否认为其他人也会像他对我们说话一样对待我们？别欺骗自己了，同志，你不是德特雷维尔先生。”

‘My faith!’ replied d’Artagnan, recognizing Athos, who, after the dressing performed by the doctor, was returning to his own apartment. ‘I did not do it intentionally, and not doing it intentionally, I said ‘Excuse me.’ It appears to me that this is quite enough. I repeat to you, however, and this time on my word of honor—I think perhaps too often—that I am in haste, great haste. Leave your hold, then, I beg of you, and let me go where my business calls me.’
“我的信仰！”达达尼昂回答道，他认出了阿多斯，阿多斯在医生包扎完毕后，正在返回自己的公寓。 “我不是故意的，我不是故意的，我说‘对不起’。在我看来，这就足够了。”然而，我向你们重复一遍，这一次我以我的名誉担保——我想这可能太多次了——我很匆忙，非常匆忙。那么，我求你了，放手吧，让我去我的工作需要我去的地方。

‘Monsieur,’ said Athos, letting him go, ‘you are not polite; it is easy to perceive that you come from a distance.’
“先生，”阿托斯放开了他，说道，“你没有礼貌；很容易看出你来自远处。

D’Artagnan had already strode down three or four stairs, but at Athos’s last remark he stopped short.
达达尼昂已经大步走下三四级楼梯，但听到阿托斯最后一句话，他停了下来。

‘MORBLEU, monsieur!’ said he, ‘however far I may come, it is not you who can give me a lesson in good manners, I warn you.’
“莫布卢，先生！”他说，“无论我走多远，我警告你，你都无法以良好的举止给我上一课。”

‘Perhaps,’ said Athos.
“也许吧，”阿托斯说。

‘Ah! If I were not in such haste, and if I were not running after someone,’ said d’Artagnan.
'啊！如果我不那么匆忙，如果我没有追赶某人的话，”达达尼昂说道。

‘Monsieur Man-in-a-hurry, you can find me without running—ME, you understand?’
“急人先生，你不用跑就能找到我——我，你明白吗？”

‘And where, I pray you?’
“请问您在哪里？”

‘Near the Carmes-Deschaux.’
“靠近卡尔姆斯-德绍。”

‘At what hour?’
“什么时间？”

‘About noon.’
“大约中午。”

‘About noon? That will do; I will be there.’
‘大约中午？这样就可以了；我会在那里。'

‘Endeavor not to make me wait; for at quarter past twelve I will cut off your ears as you run.’
‘尽量不要让我等待；因为十二点十五分我会在你逃跑时割掉你的耳朵。

‘Good!’ cried d’Artagnan, ‘I will be there ten minutes before twelve.’ And he set off running as if the devil possessed him, hoping that he might yet find the stranger, whose slow pace could not have carried him far.
“好！”达达尼昂喊道，“我会在十二点前十分钟到达那里。”然后他开始奔跑，就像魔鬼附身一样，希望他还能找到那个陌生人，他的缓慢步伐不可能让他走多远。 。

But at the street gate, Porthos was talking with the soldier on guard. Between the two talkers there was just enough room for a man to pass. D’Artagnan thought it would suffice for him, and he sprang forward like a dart between them. But d’Artagnan had reckoned without the wind. As he was about to pass, the wind blew out Porthos’s long cloak, and d’Artagnan rushed straight into the middle of it. Without doubt, Porthos had reasons for not abandoning this part of his vestments, for instead of quitting his hold on the flap in his hand, he pulled it toward him, so that d’Artagnan rolled himself up in the velvet by a movement of rotation explained by the persistency of Porthos.
但在街门口，波托斯正在和守卫的士兵交谈。两个说话者之间的空间刚好够一个人通过。达达尼昂认为这对他来说就足够了，他像飞镖一样跳到他们中间。但达达尼昂没有考虑到风。正当他要过去的时候，波托斯的长斗篷被风吹散了，达达尼昂直接冲到了斗篷的中间。毫无疑问，波尔托斯有理由不放弃这部分法衣，因为他没有松开手中的襟翼，而是将它拉向自己，这样达达尼昂就通过旋转动作把自己卷进了天鹅绒里。波托斯的坚持可以解释这一点。

D’Artagnan, hearing the Musketeer swear, wished to escape from the cloak, which blinded him, and sought to find his way from under the folds of it. He was particularly anxious to avoid marring the freshness of the magnificent baldric we are acquainted with; but on timidly opening his eyes, he found himself with his nose fixed between the two shoulders of Porthos—that is to say, exactly upon the baldric.
达达尼昂听到火枪手的咒骂声，想要逃离那件使他失明的斗篷，并试图从斗篷的褶皱下找到出路。他特别渴望避免破坏我们所熟悉的华丽佩饰的新鲜感。但当他胆怯地睁开眼睛时，他发现自己的鼻子正固定在波尔托斯的两肩之间——也就是说，正好在肩章上。

Alas, like most things in this world which have nothing in their favor but appearances, the baldric was glittering with gold in the front, but was nothing but simple buff behind. Vainglorious as he was, Porthos could not afford to have a baldric wholly of gold, but had at least half. One could comprehend the necessity of the cold and the urgency of the cloak.
唉，就像这个世界上大多数东西只看外表一样，这肩章前面金光闪闪，后面却只有简单的浅黄色。波托斯虽然虚荣，但他买不起全金的肩章，但至少有一半。人们可以理解寒冷的必要性和斗篷的紧迫性。

‘Bless me!’ cried Porthos, making strong efforts to disembarrass himself of d’Artagnan, who was wriggling about his back; ‘you must be mad to run against people in this manner.’
“上帝保佑我！”波尔托斯喊道，竭尽全力摆脱在背上蠕动的达达尼昂。 “你一定是疯了，竟然以这种方式与人较量。”

‘Excuse me,’ said d’Artagnan, reappearing under the shoulder of the giant, ‘but I am in such haste—I was running after someone and—‘
“对不起，”达达尼昂说，重新出现在巨人的肩膀下，“但是我太匆忙了——我正在追赶一个人，然后——”

‘And do you always forget your eyes when you run?’ asked Porthos.
“你跑步时总是忘记眼睛吗？”波尔托斯问道。

‘No,’ replied d’Artagnan, piqued, ‘and thanks to my eyes, I can see what other people cannot see.’
“不，”达达尼昂生气地回答，“多亏了我的眼睛，我能看到别人看不到的东西。”

Whether Porthos understood him or did not understand him, giving way to his anger, ‘Monsieur,’ said he, ‘you stand a chance of getting chastised if you rub Musketeers in this fashion.’
不管波尔托斯是否理解他，他的怒气都被消解了，“先生，”他说，“如果你这样磨蹭火枪手，你就有可能受到惩罚。”

‘Chastised, Monsieur!’ said d’Artagnan, ‘the expression is strong.’
“严惩，先生！”达达尼昂说道，“表情很强烈。”

‘It is one that becomes a man accustomed to look his enemies in the face.’
“这是一个习惯于直面敌人的人。”

‘Ah, PARDIEU! I know full well that you don’t turn your back to yours.’
‘啊，帕迪厄！我很清楚你不会背对着你的。

And the young man, delighted with his joke, went away laughing loudly.
年轻人听了他的笑话，大笑起来，走开了。

Porthos foamed with rage, and made a movement to rush after d’Artagnan.
波托斯气得满口吐沫，做出了追赶达达尼昂的动作。

‘Presently, presently,’ cried the latter, ‘when you haven’t your cloak on.’
“快点，快点，”后者喊道，“当你没穿斗篷的时候。”

‘At one o’clock, then, behind the Luxembourg.’
“那么，一点钟方向，在卢森堡号后面。”

‘Very well, at one o’clock, then,’ replied d’Artagnan, turning the angle of the street.
“很好，那么，一点钟，”达达尼昂回答道，转过街道的角度。

But neither in the street he had passed through, nor in the one which his eager glance pervaded, could he see anyone; however slowly the stranger had walked, he was gone on his way, or perhaps had entered some house. D’Artagnan inquired of everyone he met with, went down to the ferry, came up again by the Rue de Seine, and the Red Cross; but nothing, absolutely nothing! This chase was, however, advantageous to him in one sense, for in proportion as the perspiration broke from his forehead, his heart began to cool.
但无论是在他走过的那条街上，还是在他热切的目光所扫过的那条街上，他都看不到任何人。不管陌生人走得有多慢，他已经上路了，或者可能已经进入了某个房子。达达尼昂询问了他遇到的每个人，然后走到渡口，又经过塞纳河街和红十字会。但什么也没有，绝对没有！不过，这种追逐从某种意义上来说对他来说也是有利的，随着他额头上的汗珠不断冒出，他的心也开始凉了。

He began to reflect upon the events that had passed; they were numerous and inauspicious. It was scarcely eleven o’clock in the morning, and yet this morning had already brought him into disgrace with M. de Treville, who could not fail to think the manner in which d’Artagnan had left him a little cavalier.
他开始反思过去发生的事情；他们数量众多，而且不吉利。现在还不到上午十一点，然而这个早晨已经让他在德·特雷维尔先生面前丢脸了，他不可能不认为达达尼昂让他有点傲慢了。

Besides this, he had drawn upon himself two good duels with two men, each capable of killing three d’Artagnans—with two Musketeers, in short, with two of those beings whom he esteemed so greatly that he placed them in his mind and heart above all other men.
除此之外，他还与两个人进行了两次精彩的决斗，每个人都能杀死三个达达尼昂——简而言之，与两个火枪手，与他非常尊敬的两个人进行决斗，以至于他将他们放在了他的思想和心中。高于所有其他男人。

The outlook was sad. Sure of being killed by Athos, it may easily be understood that the young man was not very uneasy about Porthos. As hope, however, is the last thing extinguished in the heart of man, he finished by hoping that he might survive, even though with terrible wounds, in both these duels; and in case of surviving, he made the following reprehensions upon his own conduct:
前景令人悲伤。确定会被阿托斯杀死，不难理解，这个年轻人对波尔托斯并不太感到不安。然而，由于希望是人心中最后熄灭的东西，他最后希望自己能够在这两次决斗中活下来，尽管他受了可怕的伤。如果他幸存下来，他对自己的行为做出以下谴责：

‘What a madcap I was, and what a stupid fellow I am! That brave and unfortunate Athos was wounded on that very shoulder against which I must run head foremost, like a ram. The only thing that astonishes me is that he did not strike me dead at once. He had good cause to do so; the pain I gave him must have been atrocious. As to Porthos—oh, as to Porthos, faith, that’s a droll affair!’
‘我真是个疯子，我真是个蠢货！那个勇敢而不幸的阿托斯就在我的肩膀上受伤了，我必须像公羊一样，头朝前冲过去。唯一让我吃惊的是，他并没有立刻把我打死。他有充分的理由这样做；我给他带来的痛苦一定是残酷的。至于波托斯——哦，至于波托斯，天啊，那真是一件滑稽的事情！

And in spite of himself, the young man began to laugh aloud, looking round carefully, however, to see that his solitary laugh, without a cause in the eyes of passers-by, offended no one.
年轻人不由自主地放声大笑起来，他仔细环顾四周，却发现他那孤独的笑声在路人眼中毫无来由，并没有冒犯任何人。

‘As to Porthos, that is certainly droll; but I am not the less a giddy fool. Are people to be run against without warning? No! And have I any right to go and peep under their cloaks to see what is not there? He would have pardoned me, he would certainly have pardoned me, if I had not said anything to him about that cursed baldric—in ambiguous words, it is true, but rather drolly ambiguous. Ah, cursed Gascon that I am, I get from one hobble into another. Friend d’Artagnan,’ continued he, speaking to himself with all the amenity that he thought due himself, ‘if you escape, of which there is not much chance, I would advise you to practice perfect politeness for the future. You must henceforth be admired and quoted as a model of it. To be obliging and polite does not necessarily make a man a coward. Look at Aramis, now; Aramis is mildness and grace personified. Well, did anybody ever dream of calling Aramis a coward? No, certainly not, and from this moment I will endeavor to model myself after him. Ah! That’s strange! Here he is!’
“至于波尔托斯，那确实很滑稽；但我仍然是一个轻率的傻瓜。人们会在没有警告的情况下遭到攻击吗？不！我有权利去窥视他们的斗篷下面，看看那里不存在什么吗？如果我没有对他说起那件该死的佩饰的话，他会原谅我的，他肯定会原谅我的——用含糊的词来说，这是真的，但相当滑稽的含糊不清。啊，我是该死的加斯科尼人，我从一处绊倒到另一处。达达尼昂朋友，”他继续自言自语，语气自以为是，“如果你逃跑了，这种机会不多，我会建议你为将来保持完美的礼貌。从此以后，你一定会受到人们的钦佩和引用，成为它的典范。乐于助人和有礼貌并不一定会使一个人成为懦夫。现在看看阿拉米斯；阿拉米斯是温和和优雅的化身。那么，有人曾经梦想过称阿拉米斯为胆小鬼吗？不，当然不是，从这一刻起，我将努力以他为榜样。啊!真奇怪！他在这里！'

D’Artagnan, walking and soliloquizing, had arrived within a few steps of the hotel d’Arguillon and in front of that hotel perceived Aramis, chatting gaily with three gentlemen; but as he had not forgotten that it was in presence of this young man that M. de Treville had been so angry in the morning, and as a witness of the rebuke the Musketeers had received was not likely to be at all agreeable, he pretended not to see him. D’Artagnan, on the contrary, quite full of his plans of conciliation and courtesy, approached the young men with a profound bow, accompanied by a most gracious smile. All four, besides, immediately broke off their conversation.
达达尼昂边走边自言自语，来到了距离达吉永旅馆几步之遥的地方，在旅馆前面看到了阿拉米斯，正在和三位绅士愉快地聊天。但他没有忘记，正是在这个年轻人面前，德·特雷维尔先生早上才如此生气，而且作为火枪手所受到的斥责的见证者，他不太可能感到愉快，所以他假装不去看他。相反，达达尼昂满怀安抚和礼貌的计划，向年轻人深深鞠了一躬，脸上带着最亲切的微笑。而且，四人立刻就中断了谈话。

D’Artagnan was not so dull as not to perceive that he was one too many; but he was not sufficiently broken into the fashions of the gay world to know how to extricate himself gallantly from a false position, like that of a man who begins to mingle with people he is scarcely acquainted with and in a conversation that does not concern him. He was seeking in his mind, then, for the least awkward means of retreat, when he remarked that Aramis had let his handkerchief fall, and by mistake, no doubt, had placed his foot upon it. This appeared to be a favorable opportunity to repair his intrusion. He stooped, and with the most gracious air he could assume, drew the handkerchief from under the foot of the Musketeer in spite of the efforts the latter made to detain it, and holding it out to him, said, ‘I believe, monsieur, that this is a handkerchief you would be sorry to lose?’
达达尼昂还没有愚钝到没有意识到自己是一个太多的人。但他还没有充分融入同性恋世界的时尚，不知道如何勇敢地摆脱错误的立场，就像一个人开始与他几乎不认识的人打交道，并进行与他无关的谈话。 。这时，他正在心里寻找最不尴尬的退路，这时他说阿拉米斯把他的手帕掉了下来，而且无疑是错误地将脚踩在了上面。这似乎是修复他入侵的有利机会。他弯下腰​​，以他所能表现出的最和蔼可亲的神情，从火枪手脚下抽出手帕，尽管火枪手竭尽全力地想抓住它，然后把它递给他，说道：“我相信，先生，这是一条你会后悔失去的手帕吗？

The handkerchief was indeed richly embroidered, and had a coronet and arms at one of its corners. Aramis blushed excessively, and snatched rather than took the handkerchief from the hand of the Gascon.
手帕上的刺绣确实很丰富，一角还有一顶王冠和手臂。阿拉米斯的脸涨得通红，他从加斯科涅人手中抢走了手帕，而不是接过手帕。

‘Ah, ah!’ cried one of the Guards, ‘will you persist in saying, most discreet Aramis, that you are not on good terms with Madame de Bois-Tracy, when that gracious lady has the kindness to lend you one of her handkerchiefs?’
“啊，啊！”一名卫兵喊道，“最谨慎的阿拉米斯，当那位亲切的女士好心借给你一件她的东西时，你会坚持说你和德布瓦-特雷西夫人关系不好吗？”手帕？

Aramis darted at d’Artagnan one of those looks which inform a man that he has acquired a mortal enemy. Then, resuming his mild air, ‘You are deceived, gentlemen,’ said he, ‘this handkerchief is not mine, and I cannot fancy why Monsieur has taken it into his head to offer it to me rather than to one of you; and as a proof of what I say, here is mine in my pocket.’
阿拉米斯向达达尼昂投去一种眼神，这种眼神告诉一个人他已经有了一个不共戴天的敌人。然后，恢复了他温和的神情，“先生们，你们被骗了，”他说，“这块手帕不是我的，我不明白为什么先生会想到把它送给我而不是你们中的一个人；作为我所说的证据，这是我口袋里的。

So saying, he pulled out his own handkerchief, likewise a very elegant handkerchief, and of fine cambric—though cambric was dear at the period—but a handkerchief without embroidery and without arms, only ornamented with a single cipher, that of its proprietor.
说着，他掏出了自己的手帕，同样是一块非常优雅的手帕，是上等的麻布手帕——虽然当时麻布很贵——但是手帕上没有刺绣，也没有纹章，只装饰着一个密码，那就是它的主人的密码。

This time d’Artagnan was not hasty. He perceived his mistake; but the friends of Aramis were not at all convinced by his denial, and one of them addressed the young Musketeer with affected seriousness. ‘If it were as you pretend it is,’ said he, ‘I should be forced, my dear Aramis, to reclaim it myself; for, as you very well know, Bois-Tracy is an intimate friend of mine, and I cannot allow the property of his wife to be sported as a trophy.’
这次达达尼昂并不仓促。他意识到了自己的错误；但阿拉米斯的朋友们根本不相信他的否认，其中一个人假装严肃地对年轻的火枪手说道。 “如果真像你假装的那样，”他说，“亲爱的阿拉米斯，我就不得不亲自去夺回它；因为，如你所知，布瓦-特雷西是我的亲密朋友，我不能允许他妻子的财产被当作战利品来炫耀。

‘You make the demand badly,’ replied Aramis; ‘and while acknowledging the justice of your reclamation, I refuse it on account of the form.’
“你这个要求很糟糕，”阿拉米斯回答道。 “虽然承认你收回土地的正义性，但我出于形式原因拒绝了它。”

‘The fact is,’ hazarded d’Artagnan, timidly, ‘I did not see the handkerchief fall from the pocket of Monsieur Aramis. He had his foot upon it, that is all; and I thought from having his foot upon it the handkerchief was his.’
“事实是，”达达尼昂胆怯地冒险，“我没有看到手帕从阿拉米斯先生的口袋里掉下来。他的脚踩在了上面，仅此而已。他的脚踩在上面，我以为手帕是他的。

‘And you were deceived, my dear sir,’ replied Aramis, coldly, very little sensible to the reparation. Then turning toward that one of the guards who had declared himself the friend of BoisTracy, ‘Besides,’ continued he, ‘I have reflected, my dear intimate of Bois-Tracy, that I am not less tenderly his friend than you can possibly be; so that decidedly this handkerchief is as likely to have fallen from your pocket as mine.’
“亲爱的先生，你被骗了。”阿拉米斯冷冷地回答，对赔偿毫无感觉。然后转向那位自称是布瓦·特雷西朋友的守卫，“此外，”他继续说道，“我已经反映出来，我亲爱的布瓦·特雷西的朋友，我对他的朋友并不比你更温柔。” ;因此，这块手帕很可能是从你的口袋里掉下来的，就像我的一样。”

‘No, upon my honor!’ cried his Majesty’s Guardsman.
“不，以我的名誉担保！”国王陛下的卫兵喊道。

‘You are about to swear upon your honor and I upon my word, and then it will be pretty evident that one of us will have lied. Now, here, Montaran, we will do better than that—let each take a half.’
“你即将以你的名誉发誓，而我则以我的诺言发誓，那么很明显我们中的一个人撒了谎。现在，蒙塔兰，我们会做得更好——让每人各拿一半。”

‘Of the handkerchief?’
“手帕的？”

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘Perfectly just,’ cried the other two Guardsmen, ‘the judgment of King Solomon! Aramis, you certainly are full of wisdom!’
“完全公正，”另外两名卫兵喊道，“所罗门王的判决！阿拉米斯，你真是充满智慧！

The young men burst into a laugh, and as may be supposed, the affair had no other sequel. In a moment or two the conversation ceased, and the three Guardsmen and the Musketeer, after having cordially shaken hands, separated, the Guardsmen going one way and Aramis another.
年轻人哈哈大笑，正如人们所想象的那样，这件事没有其他的后续。一两分钟后，谈话就停止了，三名卫兵和火枪手亲切地握手后就分开了，卫兵往这边走，阿拉米斯往那边走。

‘Now is my time to make peace with this gallant man,’ said d’Artagnan to himself, having stood on one side during the whole of the latter part of the conversation; and with this good feeling drawing near to Aramis, who was departing without paying any attention to him, ‘Monsieur,’ said he, ‘you will excuse me, I hope.’
“现在是我与这个勇敢的人讲和的时候了，”达达尼昂自言自语道，在整个谈话的后半部分，他一直站在一边。阿拉米斯带着这种美好的感觉靠近，而阿拉米斯却没有理睬他就离开了，“先生，”他说，“我希望您能原谅我。”

‘Ah, monsieur,’ interrupted Aramis, ‘permit me to observe to you that you have not acted in this affair as a gallant man ought.’
“啊，先生，”阿拉米斯打断道，“请允许我向您指出，您在这件事上没有表现出一个英勇的人应有的行为。”

‘What, monsieur!’ cried d’Artagnan, ‘and do you suppose—‘
“什么，先生！”达达尼昂喊道，“您认为——”

‘I suppose, monsieur that you are not a fool, and that you knew very well, although coming from Gascony, that people do not tread upon handkerchiefs without a reason. What the devil! Paris is not paved with cambric!’
“我想，先生，您不是傻瓜，您虽然来自加斯科尼，但很清楚，人们不会无缘无故地踩手帕。什么鬼啊！巴黎不是用麻布铺成的！”

‘Monsieur, you act wrongly in endeavoring to mortify me,’ said d’Artagnan, in whom the natural quarrelsome spirit began to speak more loudly than his pacific resolutions. ‘I am from Gascony, it is true; and since you know it, there is no occasion to tell you that Gascons are not very patient, so that when they have begged to be excused once, were it even for a folly, they are convinced that they have done already at least as much again as they ought to have done.’
“先生，你试图羞辱我，这是错误的，”达达尼昂说，他天生好争吵的精神开始比他和平的决心更响亮。 “我来自加斯科尼，这是事实；既然你知道这一点，就没有必要告诉你加斯科涅人不是很有耐心，因此，当他们请求原谅一次时，即使是因为愚蠢，他们也确信自己已经做了同样多的事情。再次正如他们应该做的那样。

‘Monsieur, what I say to you about the matter,’ said Aramis, ‘is not for the sake of seeking a quarrel. Thank God, I am not a bravo! And being a Musketeer but for a time, I only fight when I am forced to do so, and always with great repugnance; but this time the affair is serious, for here is a lady compromised by you.’
“先生，我对你说的这件事，”阿拉米斯说，“并不是为了吵架。感谢上帝，我不是一个勇敢的人！作为一名火枪手，但有一段时间，我只在被迫时才战斗，而且总是怀着极大的反感；但这一次事情很严重，因为这里有一位女士被你妥协了。”

‘By US, you mean!’ cried d’Artagnan.
“你是说我们！”达达尼昂喊道。

‘Why did you so maladroitly restore me the handkerchief?’
“你为什么这么笨手笨脚地把手帕还给我？”

‘Why did you so awkwardly let it fall?’
“你为什么这么尴尬地让它掉下来？”

‘I have said, monsieur, and I repeat, that the handkerchief did not fall from my pocket.’
“我说过，先生，我再说一遍，手帕不是从我口袋里掉下来的。”

‘And thereby you have lied twice, monsieur, for I saw it fall.’
“因此，先生，你撒了两次谎，因为我亲眼看到它掉下来了。”

‘Ah, you take it with that tone, do you, Master Gascon? Well, I will teach you how to behave yourself.’
“啊，你用这种语气接受它，是吗，加斯科少爷？好吧，我会教你如何做人。

‘And I will send you back to your Mass book, Master Abbe. Draw, if you please, and instantly—‘
“我会送你回去看弥撒书，阿贝大师。画吧，如果你愿意的话，立刻——”

‘Not so, if you please, my good friend—not here, at least. Do you not perceive that we are opposite the Hotel d’Arguillon, which is full of the cardinal’s creatures? How do I know that this is not his Eminence who has honored you with the commission to procure my head? Now, I entertain a ridiculous partiality for my head, it seems to suit my shoulders so correctly. I wish to kill you, be at rest as to that, but to kill you quietly in a snug, remote place, where you will not be able to boast of your death to anybody.’
“不是这样，如果你愿意的话，我的好朋友——至少不是在这里。你难道没有察觉到我们就在阿尔吉永酒店对面吗？那里到处都是红衣主教的生物？我怎么知道这不是陛下委托您获取我的头颅呢？现在，我对自己的头产生了一种可笑的偏爱，它似乎非常适合我的肩膀。我想杀了你，对此放心，但要在一个舒适、偏远的地方悄悄地杀你，在那里你不能向任何人吹嘘你的死。

‘I agree, monsieur; but do not be too confident. Take your handkerchief; whether it belongs to you or another, you may perhaps stand in need of it.’
“我同意，先生；但也不要太自信。拿上你的手帕；无论它属于你还是别人，你也许都需要它。

‘Monsieur is a Gascon?’ asked Aramis.
“先生是加斯科涅人？”阿拉米斯问道。

‘Yes. Monsieur does not postpone an interview through prudence?’
'是的。先生不是出于谨慎而推迟采访吗？

‘Prudence, monsieur, is a virtue sufficiently useless to Musketeers, I know, but indispensable to churchmen; and as I am only a Musketeer provisionally, I hold it good to be prudent. At two o’clock I shall have the honor of expecting you at the hotel of Monsieur de Treville. There I will indicate to you the best place and time.’
“我知道，先生，谨慎是一种美德，对火枪手来说毫无用处，但对牧师来说却是不可或缺的；由于我只是暂时的火枪手，所以我认为谨慎行事是有好处的。两点钟，我将荣幸地在德特雷维尔先生的旅馆等您。在那里我会告诉你最好的地点和时间。

The two young men bowed and separated, Aramis ascending the street which led to the Luxembourg, while d’Artagnan, perceiving the appointed hour was approaching, took the road to the Carmes-Deschaux, saying to himself, ‘Decidedly I can’t draw back; but at least, if I am killed, I shall be killed by a Musketeer.’
两个年轻人鞠了一躬，分开了，阿拉米斯走上了通往卢森堡的街道，而达达尼昂，意识到约定的时间即将到来，就走上通往卡尔梅斯-德绍的路，对自己说：“我确实不会画画”后退;但至少，如果我被杀了，我会被火枪手杀死。”

5 THE KING’S MUSKETEERS AND THE CARDINAL’S GUARDS
5 国王的火枪手和红衣主教的卫兵

D’Artagnan was acquainted with nobody in Paris. He went therefore to his appointment with Athos without a second, determined to be satisfied with those his adversary should choose. Besides, his intention was formed to make the brave Musketeer all suitable apologies, but without meanness or weakness, fearing that might result from this duel which generally results from an affair of this kind, when a young and vigorous man fights with an adversary who is wounded and weakened—if conquered, he doubles the triumph of his antagonist; if a conqueror, he is accused of foul play and want of courage.
达达尼昂在巴黎不认识任何人。因此，他立即前往与阿多斯的会面，并决心对他的对手所选择的人感到满意。此外，他的目的是让勇敢的火枪手做出适当的道歉，但不要卑鄙或软弱，担心这场决斗可能会导致这种事件，当一个年轻而精力充沛的男子与一个对手打架时，他是这样的人。受伤且虚弱——如果被击败，他的对手的胜利将加倍；如果是征服者，就会被指控犯规和缺乏勇气。

Now, we must have badly painted the character of our adventure seeker, or our readers must have already perceived that d’Artagnan was not an ordinary man; therefore, while repeating to himself that his death was inevitable, he did not make up his mind to die quietly, as one less courageous and less restrained might have done in his place. He reflected upon the different characters of men he had to fight with, and began to view his situation more clearly. He hoped, by means of loyal excuses, to make a friend of Athos, whose lordly air and austere bearing pleased him much. He flattered himself he should be able to frighten Porthos with the adventure of the baldric, which he might, if not killed upon the spot, relate to everybody a recital which, well managed, would cover Porthos with ridicule. As to the astute Aramis, he did not entertain much dread of him; and supposing he should be able to get so far, he determined to dispatch him in good style or at least, by hitting him in the face, as Caesar recommended his soldiers do to those of Pompey, to damage forever the beauty of which he was so proud.
现在，我们一定把冒险家的性格描绘得很糟糕，或者我们的读者一定已经意识到达达尼昂不是一个普通人；他是一个伟大的人物。因此，尽管他不断地对自己说他的死是不可避免的，但他并没有下定决心安静地死去，就像一个不那么勇敢、不那么克制的人可能会在他的位置上那样。他反思了与他战斗的人的不同性格，并开始更清楚地看待自己的处境。他希望通过忠诚的借口，与阿多斯成为朋友，阿多斯的高贵气质和严肃举止令他非常满意。他自以为自己应该能够用佩饰的冒险来吓唬波托斯，如果他没有当场杀死它，他可能会向每个人讲述一场朗诵会，如果管理得当，会让波托斯受到嘲笑。至于精明的阿拉米斯，他并不太畏惧他。假设他能走到这一步，他决定以良好的方式消灭他，或者至少打他的脸，就像凯撒建议他的士兵对庞培的士兵所做的那样，永远损害他所拥有的美丽。很自豪。

In addition to this, d’Artagnan possessed that invincible stock of resolution which the counsels of his father had implanted in his heart: ‘Endure nothing from anyone but the king, the cardinal, and Monsieur de Treville.’ He flew, then, rather than walked, toward the convent of the Carmes Dechausses, or rather Deschaux, as it was called at that period, a sort of building without a window, surrounded by barren fields—an accessory to the Preaux-Clercs, and which was generally employed as the place for the duels of men who had no time to lose.
除此之外，达达尼昂还拥有父亲的忠告植入他心中的不可战胜的决心：“除了国王、红衣主教和德·特雷维尔先生之外，不要忍受任何人的攻击。”然后，他飞走了。而不是步行，走向卡尔梅斯·德高斯修道院，或者更确切地说，德绍修道院，因为它在那个时期被称为，一种没有窗户的建筑，周围是贫瘠的田野——普罗克莱尔的附属建筑，通常被用作那些争分夺秒的人们决斗的地方。

When d’Artagnan arrived in sight of the bare spot of ground which extended along the foot of the monastery, Athos had been waiting about five minutes, and twelve o’clock was striking. He was, then, as punctual as the Samaritan woman, and the most rigorous casuist with regard to duels could have nothing to say.
当达达尼昂到达时，看到了沿着修道院脚延伸的光秃秃的地面，阿托斯已经等了大约五分钟，十二点钟已经敲响了。那么，他就像撒玛利亚妇人一样准时，对于决斗来说，即使是最严格的诡辩者也无话可说。

Athos, who still suffered grievously from his wound, though it had been dressed anew by M. de Treville’s surgeon, was seated on a post and waiting for his adversary with hat in hand, his feather even touching the ground.
阿托斯虽然已经被特雷维尔先生的外科医生重新包扎了伤口，但伤口仍然很严重，他坐在一根柱子上，手里拿着帽子，等待着他的对手，他的羽毛甚至接触到了地面。

‘Monsieur,’ said Athos, ‘I have engaged two of my friends as seconds; but these two friends are not yet come, at which I am astonished, as it is not at all their custom.’
“先生，”阿多斯说道，“我已经聘请了我的两个朋友作为副手。但这两个朋友还没有来，这让我很惊讶，因为这根本不是他们的习惯。

‘I have no seconds on my part, monsieur,’ said d’Artagnan; ‘for having only arrived yesterday in Paris, I as yet know no one but Monsieur de Treville, to whom I was recommended by my father, who has the honor to be, in some degree, one of his friends.’
“我没有时间，先生，”达达尼昂说。 “昨天才抵达巴黎，除了德特雷维尔先生之外，我还不认识任何人，我是我父亲向他推荐的，在某种程度上，他很荣幸成为他的朋友之一。”

Athos reflected for an instant. ‘You know no one but Monsieur de Treville?’ he asked.
阿托斯沉思了片刻。 “除了德特雷维尔先生，你谁都不认识？”他问。

‘Yes, monsieur, I know only him.’
“是的，先生，我只认识他。”

‘Well, but then,’ continued Athos, speaking half to himself, ‘if I kill you, I shall have the air of a boy-slayer.’
“好吧，但是，”阿托斯半自言自语地继续说道，“如果我杀了你，我就会像一个杀男孩的人一样。”

‘Not too much so,’ replied d’Artagnan, with a bow that was not deficient in dignity, ‘since you do me the honor to draw a sword with me while suffering from a wound which is very inconvenient.’
“也不算太远，”达达尼昂回答道，他鞠了一躬，不失尊严，“因为你在受着非常不便的伤的时候，能和我一起拔剑，这让我很荣幸。”

‘Very inconvenient, upon my word; and you hurt me devilishly, I can tell you. But I will take the left hand—it is my custom in such circumstances. Do not fancy that I do you a favor; I use either hand easily. And it will be even a disadvantage to you; a left-handed man is very troublesome to people who are not prepared for it. I regret I did not inform you sooner of this circumstance.’
“我保证，非常不方便；我可以告诉你，你深深地伤害了我。但我会用左手——这是我在这种情况下的习惯。别以为我是在帮你一个忙；我可以轻松地使用任意一只手。这甚至会对你不利；左撇子对于没有做好准备的人来说是非常麻烦的。我很遗憾没有尽早告知您这种情况。”

‘You have truly, monsieur,’ said d’Artagnan, bowing again, ‘a courtesy, for which, I assure you, I am very grateful.’
“先生，您确实很有礼貌，”达达尼昂说道，再次鞠了一躬，“对此，我向您保证，我非常感激。”

‘You confuse me,’ replied Athos, with his gentlemanly air; ‘let us talk of something else, if you please. Ah, s’blood, how you have hurt me! My shoulder quite burns.’
“你让我困惑了，”阿托斯带着绅士的神气回答道。 “如果你愿意的话，让我们谈谈别的事情吧。”啊，天哪，你伤害了我多少！我的肩膀很烫。

‘If you would permit me—‘ said d’Artagnan, with timidity.
“如果你允许的话——”达达尼昂胆怯地说。

‘What, monsieur?’
“什么，先生？”

‘I have a miraculous balsam for wounds—a balsam given to me by my mother and of which I have made a trial upon myself.’
“我有一种神奇的治疗伤口的香脂——这是我母亲给我的香脂，我自己也用它进行了试验。”

‘Well?’
'出色地？'

‘Well, I am sure that in less than three days this balsam would cure you; and at the end of three days, when you would be cured— well, sir, it would still do me a great honor to be your man.’
“嗯，我相信这种香膏不到三天就能治愈你的病；三天后，当你痊愈时——好吧，先生，能成为你的人仍然让我感到非常荣幸。

D’Artagnan spoke these words with a simplicity that did honor to his courtesy, without throwing the least doubt upon his courage.
达达尼昂说这句话时语气简单，既尊重了他的礼貌，又没有对他的勇气产生丝毫怀疑。

‘PARDIEU, monsieur!’ said Athos, ‘that’s a proposition that pleases me; not that I can accept it, but a league off it savors of the gentleman. Thus spoke and acted the gallant knights of the time of Charlemagne, in whom every cavalier ought to seek his model. Unfortunately, we do not live in the times of the great emperor, we live in the times of the cardinal; and three days hence, however well the secret might be guarded, it would be known, I say, that we were to fight, and our combat would be prevented. I think these fellows will never come.’
“帕迪厄，先生！”阿托斯说，“这个提议让我很高兴；虽然不是我能接受，但是却有一种绅士的味道。查理曼时代英勇的骑士们就是这样言行的，每个骑士都应该在他们身上寻求自己的榜样。不幸的是，我们不是生活在伟大皇帝的时代，我们生活在红衣主教的时代；三天后，无论这个秘密保护得多么好，我说，人们都会知道我们将要战斗，而我们的战斗将被阻止。我认为这些家伙永远不会来。

‘If you are in haste, monsieur,’ said d’Artagnan, with the same simplicity with which a moment before he had proposed to him to put off the duel for three days, ‘and if it be your will to dispatch me at once, do not inconvenience yourself, I pray you.’
“如果您很着急，先生，”达达尼昂说道，语气就像他刚才提议将决斗推迟三天一样简单，“如果您愿意立即派遣我，请不要给自己带来不便，我请求你。

‘There is another word which pleases me,’ cried Athos, with a gracious nod to d’Artagnan. ‘That did not come from a man without a heart. Monsieur, I love men of your kidney; and I foresee plainly that if we don’t kill each other, I shall hereafter have much pleasure in your conversation. We will wait for these gentlemen, so please you; I have plenty of time, and it will be more correct. Ah, here is one of them, I believe.’
“还有一个词让我很高兴，”阿托斯大声说道，并亲切地向达达尼昂点了点头。 ‘这不是一个没有心的人说出来的。先生，我爱您心目中的男人；我清楚地预见到，如果我们不互相残杀，我以后会很高兴与你们交谈。我们会等待这些先生们，所以请你们；我时间充裕，会更正确。啊，我相信这是其中之一。

In fact, at the end of the Rue Vaugirard the gigantic Porthos appeared.
事实上，在沃吉拉尔街的尽头，巨大的波尔托斯出现了。

‘What!’ cried d’Artagnan, ‘is your first witness Monsieur Porthos?’
“什么！”达达尼昂喊道，“波托斯先生是你的第一个证人吗？”

‘Yes, that disturbs you?’
“是的，这让你感到不安吗？”

‘By no means.’
“绝对不是。”

‘And here is the second.’
“这是第二个。”

D’Artagnan turned in the direction pointed to by Athos, and perceived Aramis.
达达尼昂顺着阿托斯所指的方向转去，看到了阿拉米斯。

‘What!’ cried he, in an accent of greater astonishment than before, ‘your second witness is Monsieur Aramis?’
“什么！”他喊道，语气比以前更加惊讶，“你的第二个证人是阿拉米斯先生？”

‘Doubtless! Are you not aware that we are never seen one without the others, and that we are called among the Musketeers and the Guards, at court and in the city, Athos, Porthos, and Aramis, or the Three Inseparables? And yet, as you come from Dax or Pau—‘
‘毫无疑问！难道你不知道我们从来都不是孤立无援的吗？在火枪手和近卫军中，在宫廷和城市里，我们被称为阿托斯、波托斯和阿拉米斯，或者“不可分割的三人”？然而，既然你来自达克斯或波城——”

‘From Tarbes,’ said d’Artagnan.
“来自塔布，”达达尼昂说。

‘It is probable you are ignorant of this little fact,’ said Athos.
“你很可能不知道这个小事实，”阿托斯说。

‘My faith!’ replied d’Artagnan, ‘you are well named, gentlemen; and my adventure, if it should make any noise, will prove at least that your union is not founded upon contrasts.’
“我的信仰！”达达尼昂答道，“先生们，你们的名字很好。而我的冒险，如果它产生任何噪音，至少会证明你们的结合不是建立在对比之上的。

In the meantime, Porthos had come up, waved his hand to Athos, and then turning toward d’Artagnan, stood quite astonished.
与此同时，波托斯走了过来，向阿托斯挥了挥手，然后转向达达尼昂，一脸惊讶地站着。

Let us say in passing that he had changed his baldric and relinquished his cloak.
顺便说一句，他已经换了肩饰，脱下了斗篷。

‘Ah, ah!’ said he, ‘what does this mean?’
“啊，啊！”他说，“这是什么意思？”

‘This is the gentleman I am going to fight with,’ said Athos, pointing to d’Artagnan with his hand and saluting him with the same gesture.
“这就是我要与之战斗的绅士，”阿托斯说道，用手指向达达尼昂，并以同样的姿势向他致敬。

‘Why, it is with him I am also going to fight,’ said Porthos.
“哎呀，我也要和他一起战斗，”波托斯说道。

‘But not before one o’clock,’ replied d’Artagnan.
“但是一点之前不行，”达达尼昂回答说。

‘And I also am to fight with this gentleman,’ said Aramis, coming in his turn onto the place.
“我也要和这位先生战斗，”阿拉米斯说道，轮到他来到这个地方。

‘But not until two o’clock,’ said d’Artagnan, with the same calmness.
“但是要到两点钟才可以，”达达尼昂说道，语气同样平静。

‘But what are you going to fight about, Athos?’ asked Aramis.
“但是你要因为什么而吵架呢，阿托斯？”阿拉米斯问道。

‘Faith! I don’t very well know. He hurt my shoulder. And you, Porthos?’
'信仰！我不太清楚。他伤了我的肩膀。你呢，波托斯？

‘Faith! I am going to fight—because I am going to fight,’ answered Porthos, reddening.
'信仰！我要战斗——因为我要战斗。”波托斯红着脸回答道。

Athos, whose keen eye lost nothing, perceived a faintly sly smile pass over the lips of the young Gascon as he replied, ‘We had a short discussion upon dress.’
阿托斯敏锐的目光一无所获，他察觉到年轻的加斯科涅嘴角掠过一丝狡黠的微笑，他回答道：“我们就着装问题进行了简短的讨论。”

‘And you, Aramis?’ asked Athos.
“你呢，阿拉米斯？”阿托斯问道。

‘Oh, ours is a theological quarrel,’ replied Aramis, making a sign to d’Artagnan to keep secret the cause of their duel.
“哦，我们的争论是神学上的争吵，”阿拉米斯回答道，同时向达达尼昂做了个手势，要求他们保密决斗的原因。

Athos indeed saw a second smile on the lips of d’Artagnan.
阿托斯确实在达达尼昂的嘴角上看到了第二次微笑。

‘Indeed?’ said Athos.
“真的吗？”阿托斯说。

‘Yes; a passage of St. Augustine, upon which we could not agree,’ said the Gascon.
'是的; “圣奥古斯丁的一段话，我们无法达成一致，”加斯科尼人说。

‘Decidedly, this is a clever fellow,’ murmured Athos.
“这确实是个聪明人，”阿托斯低声说道。

‘And now you are assembled, gentlemen,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘permit me to offer you my apologies.’
“现在你们已经到齐了，先生们，”达达尼昂说道，“请允许我向你们表示歉意。”

At this word APOLOGIES, a cloud passed over the brow of Athos, a haughty smile curled the lip of Porthos, and a negative sign was the reply of Aramis.
听到“道歉”这两个字，阿托斯的眉头掠过一丝阴云，波托斯的嘴角浮起一抹傲慢的笑容，而阿拉米斯的回答则是带着否定的表情。

‘You do not understand me, gentlemen,’ said d’Artagnan, throwing up his head, the sharp and bold lines of which were at the moment gilded by a bright ray of the sun. ‘I asked to be excused in case I should not be able to discharge my debt to all three; for Monsieur Athos has the right to kill me first, which must much diminish the face-value of your bill, Monsieur Porthos, and render yours almost null, Monsieur Aramis. And now, gentlemen, I repeat, excuse me, but on that account only, and—on guard!’
“先生们，你们不明白我的意思，”达达尼昂抬起头说道，此刻他的头被明亮的阳光镀上了一层金光。 “如果我无法偿还对这三个人的债务，我请求原谅；因为阿托斯先生有权先杀了我，这必定会大大削弱您的账单的面值，波尔托斯先生，并使您的账单几乎为零，阿拉米斯先生。现在，先生们，我重复一遍，请原谅，但仅此而已，并且——保持警惕！

At these words, with the most gallant air possible, d’Artagnan drew his sword.
听完这句话，达达尼昂以最英勇的姿态拔出了剑。

The blood had mounted to the head of d’Artagnan, and at that moment he would have drawn his sword against all the Musketeers in the kingdom as willingly as he now did against Athos, Porthos, and Aramis.
鲜血已经涌到了达达尼昂的头上，在那一刻，他会愿意拔剑对抗王国里所有的火枪手，就像他现在对抗阿托斯、波尔托斯和阿拉米斯一样。

It was a quarter past midday. The sun was in its zenith, and the spot chosen for the scene of the duel was exposed to its full ardor.
此时已是中午一刻钟了。太阳当空，决斗的地点暴露在炽热的阳光下。

‘It is very hot,’ said Athos, drawing his sword in its turn, ‘and yet I cannot take off my doublet; for I just now felt my wound begin to bleed again, and I should not like to annoy Monsieur with the sight of blood which he has not drawn from me himself.’
“天气很热，”阿托斯一边说，一边拔出了剑，“但我还是脱不掉我的紧身衣；因为我刚才感觉我的伤口又开始流血了，我不想让先生看到血，因为他不是亲自从我身上抽出来的。

‘That is true, Monsieur,’ replied d’Artagnan, ‘and whether drawn by myself or another, I assure you I shall always view with regret the blood of so brave a gentleman. I will therefore fight in my doublet, like yourself.’
“确实如此，先生，”达达尼昂回答道，“无论是我自己画的还是别人画的，我向你保证，我将永远遗憾地看到如此勇敢的绅士的鲜血。因此，我会像你一样穿着我的紧身衣战斗。

‘Come, come, enough of such compliments!’ cried Porthos. ‘Remember, we are waiting for our turns.’
“得了，得了，这样的赞美已经够多了！”波尔托斯喊道。 “记住，我们正在等待轮到我们。”

‘Speak for yourself when you are inclined to utter such incongruities,’ interrupted Aramis. ‘For my part, I think what they say is very well said, and quite worthy of two gentlemen.’
“当你想说出这种不协调的话时，请为自己说话，”阿拉米斯打断道。 “就我而言，我认为他们说得很好，值得两位先生说。”

‘When you please, monsieur,’ said Athos, putting himself on guard.
“随您便，先生，”阿托斯说道，同时保持警惕。

‘I waited your orders,’ said d’Artagnan, crossing swords.
“我等待你的命令，”达达尼昂交叉着剑说道。

But scarcely had the two rapiers clashed, when a company of the Guards of his Eminence, commanded by M. de Jussac, turned the corner of the convent.
但两把细剑刚刚发生冲突，德·茹萨克先生指挥的主教大人的一个近卫连就拐过了修道院的拐角。

‘The cardinal’s Guards!’ cried Aramis and Porthos at the same time. ‘Sheathe your swords, gentlemen, sheathe your swords!’
“红衣主教的卫队！”阿拉米斯和波托斯同时喊道。 “诸位先生，收剑入鞘！”

But it was too late. The two combatants had been seen in a position which left no doubt of their intentions.
但为时已晚。两名战斗人员所处的位置足以表明他们的意图。

‘Halloo!’ cried Jussac, advancing toward them and making a sign to his men to do so likewise, ‘halloo, Musketeers? Fighting here, are you? And the edicts? What is become of them?’
“哈喽！”朱萨克喊道，一边向他们走来，一边示意他的部下也这么做，“哈喽，火枪手们？在这里战斗，你呢？还有法令呢？他们怎么样了？

‘You are very generous, gentlemen of the Guards,’ said Athos, full of rancor, for Jussac was one of the aggressors of the preceding day. ‘If we were to see you fighting, I can assure you that we would make no effort to prevent you. Leave us alone, then, and you will enjoy a little amusement without cost to yourselves.’
“你们非常慷慨，近卫军的先生们，”阿多斯充满怨恨地说，因为朱萨克是前一天的侵略者之一。 “如果我们看到你打架，我可以向你保证，我们不会尽力阻止你。那么，别管我们了，你们会享受一点乐趣，而不需要付出任何代价。

‘Gentlemen,’ said Jussac, ‘it is with great regret that I pronounce the thing impossible. Duty before everything. Sheathe, then, if you please, and follow us.’
“先生们，”朱萨克说，“我非常遗憾地宣布这件事不可能。责任高于一切。那么，如果你愿意的话，请收起武器，跟在我们后面。”

‘Monsieur,’ said Aramis, parodying Jussac, ‘it would afford us great pleasure to obey your polite invitation if it depended upon ourselves; but unfortunately the thing is impossible—Monsieur de Treville has forbidden it. Pass on your way, then; it is the best thing to do.’
“先生，”阿拉米斯模仿朱萨克说道，“如果我们自己决定的话，我们将非常乐意遵守您的礼貌邀请；但不幸的是，这是不可能的——德特雷维尔先生禁止这样做。那么，继续前行吧；这是最好的做法。

This raillery exasperated Jussac. ‘We will charge upon you, then,’ said he, ‘if you disobey.’
这种嘲笑激怒了朱萨克。 “那么，”他说，“如果你不服从的话。”

‘There are five of them,’ said Athos, half aloud, ‘and we are but three; we shall be beaten again, and must die on the spot, for, on my part, I declare I will never appear again before the captain as a conquered man.’
“他们有五个人，”阿多斯低声说道，“而我们只有三个人；我们将再次被殴打，并且必须当场死亡，因为，就我而言，我宣布我永远不会再以一个被征服的人的身份出现在船长面前。

Athos, Porthos, and Aramis instantly drew near one another, while Jussac drew up his soldiers.
阿托斯、波尔托斯和阿拉米斯立刻靠拢在一起，而尤萨克则列好了他的士兵。

This short interval was sufficient to determine d’Artagnan on the part he was to take. It was one of those events which decide the life of a man; it was a choice between the king and the cardinal—the choice made, it must be persisted in. To fight, that was to disobey the law, that was to risk his head, that was to make at one blow an enemy of a minister more powerful than the king himself. All this young man perceived, and yet, to his praise we speak it, he did not hesitate a second. Turning towards Athos and his friends, ‘Gentlemen,’ said he, ‘allow me to correct your words, if you please. You said you were but three, but it appears to me we are four.’
这段短暂的间隔足以决定达达尼昂的角色。这是决定一个人一生的事件之一。这是国王和红衣主教之间的选择，做出了选择，就必须坚持下去。战斗，那就是违法，那就是冒着生命危险，那就是一举与大臣为敌。比国王本人还要强大。这位年轻人察觉到了这一切，但值得称赞的是，他毫不犹豫地说出了这一切。转向阿多斯和他的朋友们，“先生们，”他说道，“如果您愿意的话，请允许我纠正一下你们的话。”你说你们只有三个人，但在我看来我们是四个人。”

‘But you are not one of us,’ said Porthos.
“但你不是我们中的一员，”波托斯说。

‘That’s true,’ replied d’Artagnan; ‘I have not the uniform, but I have the spirit. My heart is that of a Musketeer; I feel it, monsieur, and that impels me on.’
“确实如此，”达达尼昂回答道。 “我没有制服，但我有精神。”我的心是火枪手的心；我感觉到了，先生，这激励我继续前进。

‘Withdraw, young man,’ cried Jussac, who doubtless, by his gestures and the expression of his countenance, had guessed d’Artagnan’s design. ‘You may retire; we consent to that. Save your skin; begone quickly.’
“撤退，年轻人，”朱萨克喊道，他无疑从他的手势和表情猜出了达达尼昂的计划。 ‘你可以退休了；我们同意这一点。拯救你的皮肤；快点走吧。

D’Artagnan did not budge.
达达尼昂没有让步。

‘Decidedly, you are a brave fellow,’ said Athos, pressing the young man’s hand.
“毫无疑问，你是一个勇敢的小伙子，”阿托斯一边说，一边握着年轻人的手。

‘Come, come, choose your part,’ replied Jussac.
“来吧，来吧，选择你的角色，”朱萨克回答道。

‘Well,’ said Porthos to Aramis, ‘we must do something.’
“好吧，”波托斯对阿拉米斯说，“我们必须做点什么。”

‘Monsieur is full of generosity,’ said Athos.
“先生非常慷慨，”阿托斯说。

But all three reflected upon the youth of d’Artagnan, and dreaded his inexperience.
但三人都反思了达达尼昂的年轻，并担心他缺乏经验。

‘We should only be three, one of whom is wounded, with the addition of a boy,’ resumed Athos; ‘and yet it will not be the less said we were four men.’
“我们应该只有三个人，其中一人受伤，再加上一个男孩，”阿多斯继续说道。 “但至少我们是四个人。”

‘Yes, but to yield!’ said Porthos.
“是的，但是要屈服！”波托斯说。

‘That IS difficult,’ replied Athos.
“这很难，”阿托斯回答道。

D’Artagnan comprehended their irresolution.
达达尼昂理解他们的犹豫不决。

‘Try me, gentlemen,’ said he, ‘and I swear to you by my honor that I will not go hence if we are conquered.’
“先生们，试试我吧，”他说，“我以我的名誉向你们发誓，如果我们被征服了，我也不会离开这里。”

‘What is your name, my brave fellow?’ said Athos.
“我勇敢的家伙，你叫什么名字？”阿托斯问道。

‘d’Artagnan, monsieur.’
“达达尼昂，先生。”

‘Well, then, Athos, Porthos, Aramis, and d’Artagnan, forward!’ cried Athos.
“那么，阿托斯、波尔托斯、阿拉米斯和达达尼昂，前进！”阿托斯喊道。

‘Come, gentlemen, have you decided?’ cried Jussac for the third time.
“来吧，先生们，你们决定了吗？”朱萨克第三次喊道。

‘It is done, gentlemen,’ said Athos.
“已经完成了，先生们，”阿托斯说道。

‘And what is your choice?’ asked Jussac.
“那你的选择是什么？”朱萨克问道。

‘We are about to have the honor of charging you,’ replied Aramis, lifting his hat with one hand and drawing his sword with the other.
“我们即将荣幸地向你发起冲锋，”阿拉米斯回答道，他一手举起帽子，另一只手拔出剑。

‘Ah! You resist, do you?’ cried Jussac.
'啊！ “你抵抗了，是吗？”朱萨克喊道。

‘S’blood; does that astonish you?’
‘S’血；这让你感到惊讶吗？

And the nine combatants rushed upon each other with a fury which however did not exclude a certain degree of method.
九名战斗者互相冲锋，怒气冲冲，但也不排除一定的手段。

Athos fixed upon a certain Cahusac, a favorite of the cardinal’s. Porthos had Bicarat, and Aramis found himself opposed to two adversaries. As to d’Artagnan, he sprang toward Jussac himself.
阿多斯看中了红衣主教最喜欢的一位卡胡萨克。波尔托斯有比卡拉，阿拉米斯发现自己面对着两个对手。至于达达尼昂，他向朱萨克本人扑去。

The heart of the young Gascon beat as if it would burst through his side—not from fear, God he thanked, he had not the shade of it, but with emulation; he fought like a furious tiger, turning ten times round his adversary, and changing his ground and his guard twenty times. Jussac was, as was then said, a fine blade, and had had much practice; nevertheless it required all his skill to defend himself against an adversary who, active and energetic, departed every instant from received rules, attacking him on all sides at once, and yet parrying like a man who had the greatest respect for his own epidermis.
年轻的加斯科涅的心脏跳动得好像要从他的肋旁冲破——他感谢上帝，这不是因为恐惧，他没有恐惧的阴影，而是因为竞争；他像猛虎一样作战，十次转身，二十次变换阵地和防守。正如当时所说，朱萨克是一把好刀，并且经过了很多练习。然而，这需要他运用全部技巧来防御对手，对手活跃而精力充沛，每时每刻都背离既定规则，同时从四面八方攻击他，但又像一个最尊重自己表皮的人一样进行招架。

This contest at length exhausted Jussac’s patience. Furious at being held in check by one whom he had considered a boy, he became warm and began to make mistakes. D’Artagnan, who though wanting in practice had a sound theory, redoubled his agility. Jussac, anxious to put an end to this, springing forward, aimed a terrible thrust at his adversary, but the latter parried it; and while Jussac was recovering himself, glided like a serpent beneath his blade, and passed his sword through his body. Jussac fell like a dead mass.
这场较量最终耗尽了朱萨克的耐心。他因为被一个他认为是男孩的人束缚而感到愤怒，变得热情并开始犯错误。达达尼昂虽然在实践中缺乏合理的理论，但他的敏捷性却加倍了。朱萨克急于结束这一切，他向前一跃，向对手发起了可怕的刺击，但后者挡开了。当朱萨克恢复过来时，他像一条蛇一样在他的剑下滑行，并将剑穿过了他的身体。朱萨克像死尸一样倒下。

D’Artagnan then cast an anxious and rapid glance over the field of battle.
达达尼昂随后焦急地快速扫视了战场。

Aramis had killed one of his adversaries, but the other pressed him warmly. Nevertheless, Aramis was in a good situation, and able to defend himself.
阿拉米斯杀死了他的一名对手，但另一名对手却热情地逼迫他。尽管如此，阿拉米斯的处境很好，并且能够保护自己。

Bicarat and Porthos had just made counterhits. Porthos had received a thrust through his arm, and Bicarat one through his thigh. But neither of these two wounds was serious, and they only fought more earnestly.
比卡拉和波托斯刚刚进行了反击。波尔托斯的手臂遭到了猛击，比卡拉的大腿也受到了猛击。但这两个伤都不算严重，他们只是战斗得更加认真了。

Athos, wounded anew by Cahusac, became evidently paler, but did not give way a foot. He only changed his sword hand, and fought with his left hand.
阿多斯再次被卡胡萨克打伤，他的脸色明显变得更苍白，但没有退一步。他只是换了持剑的手，用左手战斗。

According to the laws of dueling at that period, d’Artagnan was at liberty to assist whom he pleased. While he was endeavoring to find out which of his companions stood in greatest need, he caught a glance from Athos. The glance was of sublime eloquence. Athos would have died rather than appeal for help; but he could look, and with that look ask assistance. D’Artagnan interpreted it; with a terrible bound he sprang to the side of Cahusac, crying, ‘To me, Monsieur Guardsman; I will slay you!’
根据当时的决斗规则，达达尼昂可以自由地帮助他愿意帮助的人。当他努力找出哪些同伴最需要帮助时，他瞥见了阿托斯的目光。那眼神充满了雄辩的雄辩。阿多斯宁愿死也不愿求助；但他可以看，并用那种眼神寻求帮助。达达尼昂对此进行了解释；他猛地一跳，跳到卡胡萨克身边，喊道：“对我来说，卫兵先生；”我会杀了你！

Cahusac turned. It was time; for Athos, whose great courage alone supported him, sank upon his knee.
卡胡萨克转过身来。是时候了；阿多斯单靠巨大的勇气支撑着他，他跪倒在地。

‘S’blood!’ cried he to d’Artagnan, ‘do not kill him, young man, I beg of you. I have an old affair to settle with him when I am cured and sound again. Disarm him only—make sure of his sword. That’s it! Very well done!’
“真是天哪！”他对达达尼昂喊道，“别杀他，年轻人，我求求你了。”等我痊愈康复后，我有一件旧事要和他解决。只解除他的武装——确保他的剑。就是这样！做得太好了！'

The exclamation was drawn from Athos by seeing the sword of Cahusac fly twenty paces from him. D’Artagnan and Cahusac sprang forward at the same instant, the one to recover, the other to obtain, the sword; but d’Artagnan, being the more active, reached it first and placed his foot upon it.
阿托斯看到卡胡萨克的剑飞到距他二十步远的地方，发出了一声惊呼。达达尼昂和考萨克同时向前一跃，一个要收回剑，另一个要拿到剑；但达达尼昂比较活跃，第一个到达并把脚踩在上面。

Cahusac immediately ran to the Guardsman whom Aramis had killed, seized his rapier, and returned toward d’Artagnan; but on his way he met Athos, who during his relief which d’Artagnan had procured him had recovered his breath, and who, for fear that d’Artagnan would kill his enemy, wished to resume the fight.
卡胡萨克立即跑向被阿拉米斯杀死的卫兵，抓住他的细剑，返回达达尼昂。但在途中，他遇到了阿多斯，阿多斯在达达尼昂为他安排的缓解中恢复了呼吸，由于担心达达尼昂会杀死他的敌人，阿多斯希望重新开始战斗。

D’Artagnan perceived that it would be disobliging Athos not to leave him alone; and in a few minutes Cahusac fell, with a sword thrust through his throat.
达达尼昂认为，如果阿托斯不让他一个人呆着，他就没有义务。几分钟后，卡胡萨克倒下了，一把剑刺穿了他的喉咙。

At the same instant Aramis placed his sword point on the breast of his fallen enemy, and forced him to ask for mercy.
与此同时，阿拉米斯将他的剑尖放在倒下的敌人的胸口上，迫使他求饶。

There only then remained Porthos and Bicarat. Porthos made a thousand flourishes, asking Bicarat what o’clock it could be, and offering him his compliments upon his brother’s having just obtained a company in the regiment of Navarre; but, jest as he might, he gained nothing. Bicarat was one of those iron men who never fell dead.
只剩下波尔托斯和比卡拉了。波尔托斯做了一千个华丽的动作，问比卡拉现在几点，并对他的兄弟刚刚在纳瓦拉军团中获得了一个连表示祝贺。但是，尽管他可能开玩笑，他却一无所获。比卡拉是那些从未倒下死去的钢铁侠之一。

Nevertheless, it was necessary to finish. The watch might come up and take all the combatants, wounded or not, royalists or cardinalists. Athos, Aramis, and d’Artagnan surrounded Bicarat, and required him to surrender. Though alone against all and with a wound in his thigh, Bicarat wished to hold out; but Jussac, who had risen upon his elbow, cried out to him to yield. Bicarat was a Gascon, as d’Artagnan was; he turned a deaf ear, and contented himself with laughing, and between two parries finding time to point to a spot of earth with his sword, ‘Here,’ cried he, parodying a verse of the Bible, ‘here will Bicarat die; for I only am left, and they seek my life.’
尽管如此，还是有必要完成。值班人员可能会出现并带走所有战斗人员，无论是否受伤，无论是保皇派还是红衣主教。阿托斯、阿拉米斯和达达尼昂包围了比卡拉，要求他投降。尽管独自一人对抗所有人，而且大腿受伤，比卡拉仍希望坚持下去。但朱萨克用肘部站了起来，大声喊叫他屈服。比卡拉是加斯科涅人，就像达达尼昂一样。他充耳不闻，满足于大笑，在两个格挡之间找时间用剑指着地上的一个点，“这里，”他模仿着圣经的一节经文喊道，“比卡拉将死在这里；”因为只剩下我了，他们却寻索我的性命。

‘But there are four against you; leave off, I command you.’
‘但是有四个人反对你；走开，我命令你。

‘Ah, if you command me, that’s another thing,’ said Bicarat. ‘As you are my commander, it is my duty to obey.’ And springing backward, he broke his sword across his knee to avoid the necessity of surrendering it, threw the pieces over the convent wall, and crossed him arms, whistling a cardinalist air.
“啊，如果你命令我，那就是另一回事了，”比卡拉说。 “你是我的指挥官，服从是我的责任。”他向后一跳，把剑折断在膝盖上，以免必须交出它，把剑碎片扔到修道院的墙上，双臂交叉，吹着红衣主教的口哨。空气。

Bravery is always respected, even in an enemy. The Musketeers saluted Bicarat with their swords, and returned them to their sheaths. D’Artagnan did the same. Then, assisted by Bicarat, the only one left standing, he bore Jussac, Cahusac, and one of Aramis’s adversaries who was only wounded, under the porch of the convent. The fourth, as we have said, was dead. They then rang the bell, and carrying away four swords out of five, they took their road, intoxicated with joy, toward the hotel of M. de Treville.
勇敢总是受到尊重，即使是在敌人面前。火枪手们举剑向比卡拉敬礼，然后将剑收回鞘中。达达尼昂也这么做了。然后，在比卡拉（唯一幸存的人）的协助下，他把朱萨克、卡胡萨克和阿拉米斯的一位仅受了伤的对手带到了修道院的门廊下。正如我们所说，第四个已经死了。然后他们按响了门铃，带走了五把剑中的四把，满心欢喜地向德·特雷维尔先生的旅馆走去。

They walked arm in arm, occupying the whole width of the street and taking in every Musketeer they met, so that in the end it became a triumphal march. The heart of d’Artagnan swam in delirium; he marched between Athos and Porthos, pressing them tenderly.
他们手挽着手，占据了整条街道，把遇到的每一个火枪手都纳入其中，最后成了凯旋的进行曲。达达尼昂的心在狂乱中游动。他走在阿多斯和波多斯之间，温柔地压着他们。

‘If I am not yet a Musketeer,’ said he to his new friends, as he passed through the gateway of M. de Treville’s hotel, ‘at least I have entered upon my apprenticeship, haven’t I?’
“如果我还不是一名火枪手，”当他穿过德特雷维尔先生旅馆的大门时，他对他的新朋友说，“至少我已经开始了我的学徒生涯，不是吗？”

6 HIS MAJESTY KING LOUIS XIII
6 路易十三国王陛下

This affair made a great noise. M. de Treville scolded his Musketeers in public, and congratulated them in private; but as no time was to be lost in gaining the king, M. de Treville hastened to report himself at the Louvre. It was already too late. The king was closeted with the cardinal, and M. de Treville was informed that the king was busy and could not receive him at that moment. In the evening M. de Treville attended the king’s gaming table. The king was winning; and as he was very avaricious, he was in an excellent humor. Perceiving M. de Treville at a distance—
这件事闹得沸沸扬扬。德·特雷维尔先生在公开场合责骂他的火枪手，但在私下里却向他们表示祝贺。但由于得抓紧时间争取国王，德·特雷维尔先生赶紧去卢浮宫报到。已经太晚了。国王与红衣主教密谈，德特雷维尔先生获悉国王正忙，暂时无法接待他。晚上，德·特雷维尔先生出席了国王的赌桌。国王获胜了；由于他非常贪婪，所以他的幽默感非常好。远远地看到德·特雷维尔先生——

‘Come here, Monsieur Captain,’ said he, ‘come here, that I may growl at you. Do you know that his Eminence has been making fresh complaints against your Musketeers, and that with so much emotion, that this evening his Eminence is indisposed? Ah, these Musketeers of yours are very devils—fellows to be hanged.’
“过来，船长先生，”他说，“过来，我可以对你咆哮。”您知道陛下最近对你们的火枪手们提出了新的抱怨，而且情绪如此激动，以至于今天晚上陛下感到不舒服吗？啊，你们这些火枪手真是魔鬼——应该被绞死的家伙。

‘No, sire,’ replied Treville, who saw at the first glance how things would go, ‘on the contrary, they are good creatures, as meek as lambs, and have but one desire, I’ll be their warranty. And that is that their swords may never leave their scabbards but in your majesty’s service. But what are they to do? The Guards of Monsieur the Cardinal are forever seeking quarrels with them, and for the honor of the corps even, the poor young men are obliged to defend themselves.’
“不，陛下，”特雷维尔回答道，他第一眼就看到了事情会如何发展，“相反，他们是善良的动物，像羔羊一样温顺，只有一个愿望，我会成为他们的保证。也就是说，他们的剑永远不会离开刀鞘，而是为陛下服务。但他们该怎么办呢？红衣主教先生的卫队总是在找他们争吵，甚至为了军团的荣誉，这些可怜的年轻人也必须保卫自己。

‘Listen to Monsieur de Treville,’ said the king; ‘listen to him! Would not one say he was speaking of a religious community? In truth, my dear Captain, I have a great mind to take away your commission and give it to Mademoiselle de Chemerault, to whom I promised an abbey. But don’t fancy that I am going to take you on your bare word. I am called Louis the Just, Monsieur de Treville, and by and by, by and by we will see.’
“听听德特雷维尔先生的话，”国王说。 '听他的！难道不会有人说他说的是一个宗教团体吗？事实上，我亲爱的船长，我非常愿意取消您的任命，并将其交给德·谢默罗小姐，我曾向她许诺过一座修道院。但别以为我会相信你的话。我被称为正义者路易，德特雷维尔先生，渐渐地，渐渐地，我们就会看到了。

‘Ah, sire; it is because I confide in that justice that I shall wait patiently and quietly the good pleasure of your Majesty.’
“啊，陛下；正是因为我相信这一正义，我才会耐心而安静地等待陛下的喜悦。

‘Wait, then, monsieur, wait,’ said the king; ‘I will not detain you long.’
“那么，等等，先生，等等，”国王说道。 “我不会耽搁你太久。”

In fact, fortune changed; and as the king began to lose what he had won, he was not sorry to find an excuse for playing Charlemagne—if we may use a gaming phrase of whose origin we confess our ignorance. The king therefore arose a minute after, and putting the money which lay before him into his pocket, the major part of which arose from his winnings, ‘La Vieuville,’ said he, ‘take my place; I must speak to Monsieur de Treville on an affair of importance. Ah, I had eighty louis before me; put down the same sum, so that they who have lost may have nothing to complain of. Justice before everything.’
事实上，命运改变了；当国王开始输掉他赢得的东西时，他并不遗憾地找到了扮演查理曼的借口——如果我们可以使用一个游戏短语，我们承认我们对它的起源一无所知。因此，国王一分钟后站了起来，把摆在他面前的钱放进了口袋，其中大部分是他赢得的奖金。我必须和德特雷维尔先生谈谈一件重要的事情。啊，我面前有八十个路易斯；放下同样的金额，让那些失去的人也无怨无悔。正义高于一切。

Then turning toward M. de Treville and walking with him toward the embrasure of a window, ‘Well, monsieur,’ continued he, ‘you say it is his Eminence’s Guards who have sought a quarrel with your Musketeers?’
然后转向德·特雷维尔先生，和他一起朝窗户的方向走去，“好吧，先生，”他继续说道，“你说是大人的近卫想要与你的火枪手发生争吵？”

‘Yes, sire, as they always do.’
“是的，陛下，他们总是这样做。”

‘And how did the thing happen? Let us see, for you know, my dear Captain, a judge must hear both sides.’
‘事情是怎么发生的？让我们看看，因为你知道，我亲爱的船长，法官必须听取双方的意见。

‘Good Lord! In the most simple and natural manner possible. Three of my best soldiers, whom your Majesty knows by name, and whose devotedness you have more than once appreciated, and who have, I dare affirm to the king, his service much at heart—three of my best soldiers, I say, Athos, Porthos, and Aramis, had made a party of pleasure with a young fellow from Gascony, whom I had introduced to them the same morning. The party was to take place at St. Germain, I believe, and they had appointed to meet at the Carmes-Deschaux, when they were disturbed by de Jussac, Cahusac, Bicarat, and two other Guardsmen, who certainly did not go there in such a numerous company without some ill intention against the edicts.’
‘天哪！以最简单、最自然的方式。我最好的三名士兵，陛下知道他们的名字，您不止一次地赞赏他们的奉献精神，而且我敢向国王保证，他们是真心实意地为他服务的——我说，我最好的三名士兵，阿多斯、波尔托斯和阿拉米斯，与一位来自加斯科尼的年轻人举行了一场愉快的聚会，当天早上我把他介绍给了他们。我相信聚会原定在圣日耳曼举行，他们约好在卡尔梅斯-德肖会面，当时他们被德·朱萨克、卡胡萨克、比卡拉和另外两名卫兵打扰了，他们当然没有去那里。如此众多的公司并没有恶意反对这些法令。

‘Ah, ah! You incline me to think so,’ said the king. ‘There is no doubt they went thither to fight themselves.’
'啊啊！你让我这么想。”国王说道。 “毫无疑问，他们去那里是为了自斗。”

‘I do not accuse them, sire; but I leave your Majesty to judge what five armed men could possibly be going to do in such a deserted place as the neighborhood of the Convent des Carmes.’
“我并没有指控他们，陛下；但我请陛下判断一下，在卡姆斯修道院附近这样一个荒凉的地方，五个武装人员可能会做什么。”

‘Yes, you are right, Treville, you are right!’
“是的，你是对的，特雷维尔，你是对的！”

‘Then, upon seeing my Musketeers they changed their minds, and forgot their private hatred for partisan hatred; for your Majesty cannot be ignorant that the Musketeers, who belong to the king and nobody but the king, are the natural enemies of the Guardsmen, who belong to the cardinal.’
‘然后，当他们看到我的火枪手时，他们改变了主意，忘记了他们私人的仇恨变成了党派仇恨；陛下不可能不知道，火枪手是属于国王的，除了国王以外没有其他人，他们是属于红衣主教的近卫军的天敌。”

‘Yes, Treville, yes,’ said the king, in a melancholy tone; ‘and it is very sad, believe me, to see thus two parties in France, two heads to royalty. But all this will come to an end, Treville, will come to an end. You say, then, that the Guardsmen sought a quarrel with the Musketeers?’
“是的，特雷维尔，是的，”国王语气忧郁地说。 “相信我，看到法国有两个政党，两个王室首脑，这是非常悲伤的。但这一切都会结束，特雷维尔，都会结束。那么你是说近卫军想要与火枪手发生争执？

‘I say that it is probable that things have fallen out so, but I will not swear to it, sire. You know how difficult it is to discover the truth; and unless a man be endowed with that admirable instinct which causes Louis XIII to be named the Just—‘
“我说事情很可能会变成这样，但我不会发誓，陛下。你知道发现真相是多么困难；除非一个人具有令人钦佩的本能，使路易十三被称为正义者——”

‘You are right, Treville; but they were not alone, your Musketeers. They had a youth with them?’
“你是对的，特雷维尔；但你们的火枪手们并不孤单。他们身边还有一个年轻人吗？

‘Yes, sire, and one wounded man; so that three of the king’s Musketeers—one of whom was wounded—and a youth not only maintained their ground against five of the most terrible of the cardinal’s Guardsmen, but absolutely brought four of them to earth.’
“是的，陛下，还有一名伤员；因此，国王的三名火枪手（其中一人受伤）和一名年轻人不仅坚守阵地，对抗红衣主教的五名最可怕的卫兵，而且绝对将其中四名击倒在地。

‘Why, this is a victory!’ cried the king, all radiant, ‘a complete victory!’
“啊，这是一场胜利！”国王满面笑容地喊道，“一场彻底的胜利！”

‘Yes, sire; as complete as that of the Bridge of Ce.’
“是的，陛下；与 Ce 桥一样完整。

‘Four men, one of them wounded, and a youth, say you?’
“你说有四个人，其中一个受伤，还有一个年轻人？”

‘One hardly a young man; but who, however, behaved himself so admirably on this occasion that I will take the liberty of recommending him to your Majesty.’
“一个人根本算不上年轻人；但他在这次场合表现得如此令人钦佩，我将冒昧地向陛下推荐他。

‘How does he call himself?’
“他怎么称呼自己？”

‘d’Artagnan, sire; he is the son of one of my oldest friends—the son of a man who served under the king your father, of glorious memory, in the civil war.’
达达尼昂，陛下；他是我一位老朋友的儿子，他的父亲在内战期间曾在你父亲国王手下服役，有着光荣的记忆。

‘And you say this young man behaved himself well? Tell me how, Treville—you know how I delight in accounts of war and fighting.’
‘你说这个年轻人表现得很好？告诉我怎么做，特雷维尔——你知道我是多么喜欢战争和战斗的故事。

And Louis XIII twisted his mustache proudly, placing his hand upon his hip.
路易十三骄傲地扭动着小胡子，把手放在臀部上。

‘Sire,’ resumed Treville, ‘as I told you, Monsieur d’Artagnan is little more than a boy; and as he has not the honor of being a Musketeer, he was dressed as a citizen. The Guards of the cardinal, perceiving his youth and that he did not belong to the corps, invited him to retire before they attacked.’
“陛下，”特雷维尔继续说道，“正如我告诉过您的那样，达达尼昂先生不过是个小男孩而已；由于他没有成为火枪手的荣幸，所以他穿着公民的衣服。红衣主教的近卫队看出他年轻且不属于军团，邀请他在进攻前先退下。

‘So you may plainly see, Treville,’ interrupted the king, ‘it was they who attacked?’
“所以你可以清楚地看到，特雷维尔，”国王打断道，“是他们袭击的？”

‘That is true, sire; there can be no more doubt on that head. They called upon him then to retire; but he answered that he was a Musketeer at heart, entirely devoted to your Majesty, and that therefore he would remain with Messieurs the Musketeers.’
“确实如此，陛下；在这一点上再也没有疑问了。他们随后要求他退休。但他回答说，他本质上是一名火枪手，完全忠于陛下，因此他将留在火枪手先生身边。

‘Brave young man!’ murmured the king.
“勇敢的年轻人！”国王低声说道。

‘Well, he did remain with them; and your Majesty has in him so firm a champion that it was he who gave Jussac the terrible sword thrust which has made the cardinal so angry.’
“好吧，他确实留在了他们身边；陛下有一位如此坚定的拥护者，正是他给了朱萨克可怕的剑刺，这让红衣主教如此愤怒。

‘He who wounded Jussac!’ cried the king, ‘he, a boy! Treville, that’s impossible!’
“打伤朱萨克的人！”国王喊道，“他，一个男孩！”特雷维尔，那是不可能的！

‘It is as I have the honor to relate it to your Majesty.’
“我很荣幸向陛下报告此事。”

‘Jussac, one of the first swordsmen in the kingdom?’
“尤萨克，王国最早的剑客之一？”

‘Well, sire, for once he found his master.’
“好吧，陛下，这一次他找到了他的主人。”

‘I will see this young man, Treville—I will see him; and if anything can be done—well, we will make it our business.’
“我会见到这个年轻人，特雷维尔——我会见到他；如果有什么办法可以做的话——好吧，我们会把它当作我们的事。”

‘When will your Majesty deign to receive him?’
“陛下什么时候会屈尊接见他？”

‘Tomorrow, at midday, Treville.’
“明天中午，特雷维尔。”

‘Shall I bring him alone?’
“我要单独带他来吗？”

‘No, bring me all four together. I wish to thank them all at once. Devoted men are so rare, Treville, by the back staircase. It is useless to let the cardinal know.’
“不，把我四个人带到一起。”我想立刻感谢他们所有人。特雷维尔，在后楼梯旁，忠诚的人是如此罕见。让红衣主教知道是没有用的。

‘Yes, sire.’
“是的，陛下。”

‘You understand, Treville—an edict is still an edict, it is forbidden to fight, after all.’
“你明白，特雷维尔——法令终究是法令，毕竟禁止打斗。”

‘But this encounter, sire, is quite out of the ordinary conditions of a duel. It is a brawl; and the proof is that there were five of the cardinal’s Guardsmen against my three Musketeers and Monsieur d’Artagnan.’
“但是，陛下，这次遭遇是非常不寻常的决斗。这是一场争吵；证据就是，有五名红衣主教的近卫军在对抗我的三个火枪手和达达尼昂先生。”

‘That is true,’ said the king; ‘but never mind, Treville, come still by the back staircase.’
“确实如此，”国王说。 “不过没关系，特雷维尔，从后楼梯过来别动。”

Treville smiled; but as it was indeed something to have prevailed upon this child to rebel against his master, he saluted the king respectfully, and with this agreement, took leave of him.
特雷维尔微笑着；但由于这孩子确实背叛了他的主人，所以他恭敬地向国王行礼，并表示同意，告别了国王。

That evening the three Musketeers were informed of the honor accorded them. As they had long been acquainted with the king, they were not much excited; but d’Artagnan, with his Gascon imagination, saw in it his future fortune, and passed the night in golden dreams. By eight o’clock in the morning he was at the apartment of Athos.
那天晚上，三个火枪手被告知了他们所获得的荣誉。由于他们与国王相识已久，所以并没有太兴奋。但达达尼昂凭借他的加斯科涅想象力，从中看到了自己未来的命运，并在金色的梦中度过了这一夜。早上八点，他就到了阿多斯的公寓。

D’Artagnan found the Musketeer dressed and ready to go out. As the hour to wait upon the king was not till twelve, he had made a party with Porthos and Aramis to play a game at tennis in a tennis court situated near the stables of the Luxembourg. Athos invited d’Artagnan to follow them; and although ignorant of the game, which he had never played, he accepted, not knowing what to do with his time from nine o’clock in the morning, as it then scarcely was, till twelve.
达达尼昂发现火枪手已经穿戴整齐，准备出去了。由于侍候国王的时间还不到十二点，他便与波尔托斯和阿拉米斯一起在卢森堡马厩附近的网球场打网球。阿多斯邀请达达尼昂跟随他们。尽管他对这个游戏一无所知，因为他从未玩过，但他还是接受了，因为不知道从早上九点到十二点，他不知道如何度过自己的时间，当时几乎是这样。

The two Musketeers were already there, and were playing together. Athos, who was very expert in all bodily exercises, passed with d’Artagnan to the opposite side and challenged them; but at the first effort he made, although he played with his left hand, he found that his wound was yet too recent to allow of such exertion. D’Artagnan remained, therefore, alone; and as he declared he was too ignorant of the game to play it regularly they only continued giving balls to one another without counting. But one of these balls, launched by Porthos’ herculean hand, passed so close to d’Artagnan’s face that he thought that if, instead of passing near, it had hit him, his audience would have been probably lost, as it would have been impossible for him to present himself before the king. Now, as upon this audience, in his Gascon imagination, depended his future life, he saluted Aramis and Porthos politely, declaring that he would not resume the game until he should be prepared to play with them on more equal terms, and went and took his place near the cord and in the gallery.
两个火枪手已经在那里，正在一起玩耍。阿托斯精通所有的身体锻炼，他和达达尼昂一起走到对面，向他们发起挑战。但当他第一次努力时，虽然他用的是左手，但他发现自己的伤口还太新，不允许这样用力。因此，达达尼昂仍然孤身一人。当他声称自己对这项运动一无所知，无法经常参加这项运动时，他们只是继续互相传球，没有数数。但是其中一颗球是由波尔托斯的大力手射出的，它离达达尼昂的脸如此之近，以至于他认为如果不是从附近经过，而是击中了他，他的观众可能会迷失，因为它本来就是这样的。他不可能在国王面前出现。现在，在他的加斯科尼想象中，他的未来生活取决于这位观众，他礼貌地向阿拉米斯和波尔托斯致敬，宣布在他准备好与他们以更平等的条件进行比赛之前，他不会继续比赛，然后走过去接受了比赛。他的位置靠近电线和画廊。

Unfortunately for d’Artagnan, among the spectators was one of his Eminence’s Guardsmen, who, still irritated by the defeat of his companions, which had happened only the day before, had promised himself to seize the first opportunity of avenging it. He believed this opportunity was now come and addressed his neighbor: ‘It is not astonishing that that young man should be afraid of a ball, for he is doubtless a Musketeer apprentice.’
不幸的是，对于达达尼昂来说，观众中有一位大人的近卫军，他仍然对前一天发生的同伴战败感到恼火，他发誓要抓住第一个报仇的机会。他相信这个机会现在已经到来，并对他的邻居说：“那个年轻人害怕球，这并不奇怪，因为他无疑是一名火枪手学徒。”

D’Artagnan turned round as if a serpent had stung him, and fixed his eyes intensely upon the Guardsman who had just made this insolent speech.
达达尼昂像被蛇蜇了一样转过身来，目光紧紧地盯着刚刚发表无礼言论的卫兵。

‘PARDIEU,’ resumed the latter, twisting his mustache, ‘look at me as long as you like, my little gentleman! I have said what I have said.’
“帕迪厄，”后者扭着小胡子继续说道，“你想看多久就看多久，我的小绅士！我已经说过了。

‘And as since that which you have said is too clear to require any explanation,’ replied d’Artagnan, in a low voice, ‘I beg you to follow me.’
“既然你说的太清楚了，不需要任何解释，”达达尼昂低声回答，“我请求你跟我来。”

‘And when?’ asked the Guardsman, with the same jeering air.
“什么时候？”卫兵问道，语气同样带着嘲讽。

‘At once, if you please.’
“请立刻。”

‘And you know who I am, without doubt?’
“你毫无疑问知道我是谁吗？”

‘I? I am completely ignorant; nor does it much disquiet me.’
'我？我完全无知；这也没有让我太不安。

‘You’re in the wrong there; for if you knew my name, perhaps you would not be so pressing.’
‘你错了；因为如果你知道我的名字，也许你就不会那么紧迫了。

‘What is your name?’
'你叫什么名字？'

‘Bernajoux, at your service.’
“贝尔纳茹，随时为您服务。”

‘Well, then, Monsieur Bernajoux,’ said d’Artagnan, tranquilly, ‘I will wait for you at the door.’
“那么，贝尔纳茹先生，”达达尼昂平静地说，“我会在门口等你。”

‘Go, monsieur, I will follow you.’
“走吧，先生，我会跟着你。”

‘Do not hurry yourself, monsieur, lest it be observed that we go out together. You must be aware that for our undertaking, company would be in the way.’
“先生，别着急，以免被人发现我们一起出去。你必须意识到，对于我们的事业来说，公司会成为阻碍。

‘That’s true,’ said the Guardsman, astonished that his name had not produced more effect upon the young man.
“确实如此，”卫兵说，他很惊讶自己的名字没有对年轻人产生更大的影响。

Indeed, the name of Bernajoux was known to all the world, d’Artagnan alone excepted, perhaps; for it was one of those which figured most frequently in the daily brawls which all the edicts of the cardinal could not repress.
事实上，贝尔纳茹的名字全世界都知道，也许只有达达尼昂除外。因为这是日常争吵中最常见的争吵之一，而红衣主教的所有法令都无法压制这些争吵。

Porthos and Aramis were so engaged with their game, and Athos was watching them with so much attention, that they did not even perceive their young companion go out, who, as he had told the Guardsman of his Eminence, stopped outside the door. An instant after, the Guardsman descended in his turn. As d’Artagnan had no time to lose, on account of the audience of the king, which was fixed for midday, he cast his eyes around, and seeing that the street was empty, said to his adversary, ‘My faith! It is fortunate for you, although your name is Bernajoux, to have only to deal with an apprentice Musketeer. Never mind; be content, I will do my best. On guard!’
波托斯和阿拉米斯全神贯注地玩着游戏，而阿托斯则全神贯注地看着他们，他们甚至没有注意到他们的年轻同伴出去了，正如他对卫兵阁下所说的那样，他停在了门外。片刻之后，守卫也依次降临。达达尼昂没有时间浪费，因为国王的接见时间定在中午，他环顾四周，看到街上空无一人，就对他的对手说：“我的信仰！”尽管你的名字叫伯纳茹，但你只需要与一名火枪手学徒打交道，这对你来说是幸运的。没关系;知足吧，我会尽力的。处于戒备！'

‘But,’ said he whom d’Artagnan thus provoked, ‘it appears to me that this place is badly chosen, and that we should be better behind the Abbey St. Germain or in the Pre-aux-Clercs.’
“但是，”被达达尼昂激怒的他说，“在我看来，这个地方选得不好，我们应该在圣日耳曼修道院后面或在普雷奥克拉克那里更好。”

‘What you say is full of sense,’ replied d’Artagnan; ‘but unfortunately I have very little time to spare, having an appointment at twelve precisely. On guard, then, monsieur, on guard!’
“你说的很有道理，”达达尼昂回答道。 “但不幸的是，我的空闲时间很少，因为我有十二点整的约会。那么，保持警惕，先生，保持警惕！

Bernajoux was not a man to have such a compliment paid to him twice. In an instant his sword glittered in his hand, and he sprang upon his adversary, whom, thanks to his great youthfulness, he hoped to intimidate.
贝尔纳茹不是一个能两次得到这样的赞美的人。刹那间，他手中的剑闪闪发光，他向对手扑去，由于他还很年轻，他希望能吓倒对手。

But d’Artagnan had on the preceding day served his apprenticeship. Fresh sharpened by his victory, full of hopes of future favor, he was resolved not to recoil a step. So the two swords were crossed close to the hilts, and as d’Artagnan stood firm, it was his adversary who made the retreating step; but d’Artagnan seized the moment at which, in this movement, the sword of Bernajoux deviated from the line. He freed his weapon, made a lunge, and touched his adversary on the shoulder. d’Artagnan immediately made a step backward and raised his sword; but Bernajoux cried out that it was nothing, and rushing blindly upon him, absolutely spitted himself upon d’Artagnan’s sword. As, however, he did not fall, as he did not declare himself conquered, but only broke away toward the hotel of M. de la Tremouille, in whose service he had a relative, d’Artagnan was ignorant of the seriousness of the last wound his adversary had received, and pressing him warmly, without doubt would soon have completed his work with a third blow, when the noise which arose from the street being heard in the tennis court, two of the friends of the Guardsman, who had seen him go out after exchanging some words with d’Artagnan, rushed, sword in hand, from the court, and fell upon the conqueror. But Athos, Porthos, and Aramis quickly appeared in their turn, and the moment the two Guardsmen attacked their young companion, drove them back. Bernajoux now fell, and as the Guardsmen were only two against four, they began to cry, ‘To the rescue! The Hotel de la Tremouille!’ At these cries, all who were in the hotel rushed out and fell upon the four companions, who on their side cried aloud, ‘To the rescue, Musketeers!’
但达达尼昂在前一天就完成了他的学徒期。胜利使他精神焕发，充满了未来受宠的希望，他决心不退缩一步。于是，两把剑在剑柄附近交叉，达达尼昂站稳了脚跟，而他的对手则向后退了一步。但达达尼昂抓住了这一动作，贝尔纳茹的剑偏离了线。他松开武器，猛冲过去，碰了一下对手的肩膀。达达尼昂立即向后退了一步，举起了剑。但贝尔纳茹大声喊道，这没什么，盲目地冲向他，把自己吐到了达达尼昂的剑上。然而，他并没有倒下，也没有宣布自己被征服，而只是逃往德拉特雷穆耶先生的旅馆，他有一个亲戚为他服务，达达尼昂对最后的事件的严重性一无所知。卫兵的两个朋友看到了他的对手所受的伤，并热情地压住了他，毫无疑问，第三次打击很快就会完成他的工作，这时从街上传来的噪音在网球场上响起。他与达达尼昂说了几句话后就出去了，手持剑冲出宫廷，扑向征服者。但阿托斯、波托斯和阿拉米斯很快就出现了，两名近卫军一攻击他们的年轻同伴，就把他们赶了回来。贝尔纳茹现在陷落了，由于近卫军只有二对四，他们开始喊叫：“来救援！”特雷穆耶旅馆！” 听到这些叫喊声，旅馆里的所有人都冲了出来，扑向那四个同伴，而他们的同伴则大声喊道：“火枪手们，来救援吧！”

This cry was generally heeded; for the Musketeers were known to be enemies of the cardinal, and were beloved on account of the hatred they bore to his Eminence. Thus the soldiers of other companies than those which belonged to the Red Duke, as Aramis had called him, often took part with the king’s Musketeers in these quarrels. Of three Guardsmen of the company of M. Dessessart who were passing, two came to the assistance of the four companions, while the other ran toward the hotel of M. de Treville, crying, ‘To the rescue, Musketeers! To the rescue!’ As usual, this hotel was full of soldiers of this company, who hastened to the succor of their comrades. The MELEE became general, but strength was on the side of the Musketeers. The cardinal’s Guards and M. de la Tremouille’s people retreated into the hotel, the doors of which they closed just in time to prevent their enemies from entering with them. As to the wounded man, he had been taken in at once, and, as we have said, in a very bad state.
这种呼声得到了普遍关注。因为众所周知，火枪手是红衣主教的敌人，并且由于他们对主教大人的仇恨而受到爱戴。因此，除了阿拉米斯所称的“红公爵”所属连队的士兵之外，其他连队的士兵也经常与国王的火枪手一起参与这些争吵。德塞萨特先生连队的三名卫兵路过，其中两人前来援助四名同伴，另一名则跑向德特雷维尔先生的旅馆，高喊着：“火枪手们，来救援吧！”救援！”像往常一样，这家酒店挤满了该连的士兵，他们赶忙前去救援战友。混战变得普遍，但火枪手一方实力强劲。红衣主教的卫队和德拉特雷穆耶先生的人撤退到旅馆里，他们及时关上了门，防止敌人和他们一起进入。至于受伤的人，他是立即被送往医院的，正如我们所说，他的情况非常糟糕。

Excitement was at its height among the Musketeers and their allies, and they even began to deliberate whether they should not set fire to the hotel to punish the insolence of M. de la Tremouille’s domestics in daring to make a SORTIE upon the king’s Musketeers. The proposition had been made, and received with enthusiasm, when fortunately eleven o’clock struck. D’Artagnan and his companions remembered their audience, and as they would very much have regretted that such an opportunity should be lost, they succeeded in calming their friends, who contented themselves with hurling some paving stones against the gates; but the gates were too strong. They soon tired of the sport. Besides, those who must be considered the leaders of the enterprise had quit the group and were making their way toward the hotel of M. de Treville, who was waiting for them, already informed of this fresh disturbance.
火枪手们和他们的盟友们兴奋极了，他们甚至开始考虑是否应该放火烧旅馆，以惩罚德·拉·特雷穆耶先生的家臣胆敢对国王的火枪手们发动袭击的无礼行为。幸运的是，当十一点钟声敲响时，这个提议已经提出，并受到了热烈的欢迎。达达尼昂和他的同伴们记得他们的观众，如果他们失去这样的机会，他们会非常遗憾，所以他们成功地安抚了他们的朋友，他们满足于向大门扔一些铺路石；但城门太坚固了。他们很快就厌倦了这项运动。此外，那些必须被视为企业领导人的人已经退出了队伍，正在前往德特雷维尔先生的旅馆，而德特雷维尔先生正在等待他们，已经通知了这次新的骚乱。

‘Quick to the Louvre,’ said he, ‘to the Louvre without losing an instant, and let us endeavor to see the king before he is prejudiced by the cardinal. We will describe the thing to him as a consequence of the affair of yesterday, and the two will pass off together.’
“快去卢浮宫，”他说，“一刻也不耽误，去卢浮宫，让我们努力在国王受到红衣主教的偏见之前去见见他。我们会向他描述这件事是昨天那件事的后果，然后两人就会一起走掉。

M. de Treville, accompanied by the four young fellows, directed his course toward the Louvre; but to the great astonishment of the captain of the Musketeers, he was informed that the king had gone stag hunting in the forest of St. Germain. M. de Treville required this intelligence to be repeated to him twice, and each time his companions saw his brow become darker.
德·特雷维尔先生在四个年轻人的陪同下，径直朝卢浮宫走去。但令火枪手队长大吃一惊的是，他得知国王去圣日耳曼森林里猎鹿了。德·特雷维尔先生要求将这一情报向他重复两次，每次他的同伴都看到他的眉头变得更黑。

‘Had his Majesty,’ asked he, ‘any intention of holding this hunting party yesterday?’
“陛下，”他问道，“昨天有意举行这次狩猎聚会吗？”

‘No, your Excellency,’ replied the valet de chambre, ‘the Master of the Hounds came this morning to inform him that he had marked down a stag. At first the king answered that he would not go; but he could not resist his love of sport, and set out after dinner.’
“不，阁下，”侍从回答道，“今天早上猎狗主人来通知他，他已经标记了一头雄鹿。起初国王回答说他不去。但他无法抗拒自己对运动的热爱，晚饭后就出发了。

‘And the king has seen the cardinal?’ asked M. de Treville.
“国王见过红衣主教吗？”德·特雷维尔先生问道。

‘In all probability he has,’ replied the valet, ‘for I saw the horses harnessed to his Eminence’s carriage this morning, and when I asked where he was going, they told me, ‘To St. Germain.’’
“很可能他已经去了，”男仆回答道，“因为今天早上我看到大人的马车上套着马匹，当我问他要去哪里时，他们告诉我，‘去圣日耳曼。’”

‘He is beforehand with us,’ said M. de Treville. ‘Gentlemen, I will see the king this evening; but as to you, I do not advise you to risk doing so.’
“他事先就和我们在一起了，”德特雷维尔先生说。 “先生们，今晚我要见国王；但对于你来说，我不建议你冒险这样做。

This advice was too reasonable, and moreover came from a man who knew the king too well, to allow the four young men to dispute it. M. de Treville recommended everyone to return home and wait for news.
这个建议太有道理了，而且还是出自一个太了解国王的人之口，容不得四个年轻人去争辩。德特雷维尔先生建议大家回家等待消息。

On entering his hotel, M. de Treville thought it best to be first in making the complaint. He sent one of his servants to M. de la Tremouille with a letter in which he begged of him to eject the cardinal’s Guardsmen from his house, and to reprimand his people for their audacity in making SORTIE against the king’s Musketeers. But M. de la Tremouille—already prejudiced by his esquire, whose relative, as we already know, Bernajoux was— replied that it was neither for M. de Treville nor the Musketeers to complain, but, on the contrary, for him, whose people the Musketeers had assaulted and whose hotel they had endeavored to burn. Now, as the debate between these two nobles might last a long time, each becoming, naturally, more firm in his own opinion, M. de Treville thought of an expedient which might terminate it quietly. This was to go himself to M. de la Tremouille.
进入酒店后，德特雷维尔先生认为最好先提出投诉。他派一名仆人去见德拉特雷穆耶先生，并在信中恳求他将红衣主教的卫兵赶出家门，并谴责他的人民胆敢对国王的火枪手发起进攻。但是德·拉·特雷穆耶先生——已经受到他的侍从的偏见，我们已经知道，贝尔纳茹是他的亲戚——回答说，德·特雷维尔先生和火枪手们都不需要抱怨，相反，他应该抱怨，他的火枪手袭击过这些人，还试图烧毁他们的旅馆。现在，由于这两位贵族之间的争论可能会持续很长时间，自然而然地，他们各自的观点会变得更加坚定，德特雷维尔先生想到了一个权宜之计，可以悄悄地结束这场争论。他要亲自去见德拉特雷穆耶先生。

He repaired, therefore, immediately to his hotel, and caused himself to be announced.
因此，他立即返回旅馆，并通知了自己。

The two nobles saluted each other politely, for if no friendship existed between them, there was at least esteem. Both were men of courage and honor; and as M. de la Tremouille—a Protestant, and seeing the king seldom—was of no party, he did not, in general, carry any bias into his social relations. This time, however, his address, although polite, was cooler than usual.
两位贵族礼貌地互相行礼，即使没有友谊，至少还有尊重。两人都是勇敢而荣誉的人。由于德·拉·特雷穆耶先生是一名新教徒，很少见到国王，他不属于任何党派，因此他在社会关系中一般不带任何偏见。然而，这一次他的讲话虽然客气，但却比平时冷淡。

‘Monsieur,’ said M. de Treville, ‘we fancy that we have each cause to complain of the other, and I am come to endeavor to clear up this affair.’
“先生，”德·特雷维尔先生说，“我们认为我们都有理由互相抱怨，我是来尽力澄清这件事的。”

‘I have no objection,’ replied M. de la Tremouille, ‘but I warn you that I am well informed, and all the fault is with your Musketeers.’
“我不反对，”德拉特雷穆耶先生答道，“但我警告你们，我消息灵通，所有的错都在于你们的火枪手。”

‘You are too just and reasonable a man, monsieur!’ said Treville, ‘not to accept the proposal I am about to make to you.’
“先生，您是一个非常公正、通情达理的人！”特雷维尔说，“您不可能不接受我向您提出的建议。”

‘Make it, monsieur, I listen.’
“说吧，先生，我听着。”

‘How is Monsieur Bernajoux, your esquire’s relative?’
“您的侍从亲戚贝尔纳茹先生怎么样？”

‘Why, monsieur, very ill indeed! In addition to the sword thrust in his arm, which is not dangerous, he has received another right through his lungs, of which the doctor says bad things.’
“哎呀，先生，病得很重啊！除了剑刺入他的手臂之外（这并不危险），他还通过肺部接受了另一次权利，对此医生说不好。

‘But has the wounded man retained his senses?’
“但是受伤的人还清醒吗？”

‘Perfectly.’
'完美。'

‘Does he talk?’
“他会说话吗？”

‘With difficulty, but he can speak.’
“虽然很困难，但他能说话。”

‘Well, monsieur, let us go to him. Let us adjure him, in the name of the God before whom he must perhaps appear, to speak the truth. I will take him for judge in his own cause, monsieur, and will believe what he will say.’
“好吧，先生，让我们去找他吧。让我们以上帝的名义恳求他说实话，也许他必须出现在上帝面前。先生，我将接受他作为自己案件的法官，并相信他所说的话。

M. de la Tremouille reflected for an instant; then as it was difficult to suggest a more reasonable proposal, he agreed to it.
德拉特雷穆耶先生沉思了片刻。然后由于很难提出更合理的建议，他就同意了。

Both descended to the chamber in which the wounded man lay. The latter, on seeing these two noble lords who came to visit him, endeavored to raise himself up in his bed; but he was too weak, and exhausted by the effort, he fell back again almost senseless.
两人下楼来到受伤者躺着的房间。后者一看到两位贵族来拜访，就努力从床上爬起来。但他太虚弱了，又被力竭了，又向后倒去，几乎失去了知觉。

M. de la Tremouille approached him, and made him inhale some salts, which recalled him to life. Then M. de Treville, unwilling that it should be thought that he had influenced the wounded man, requested M. de la Tremouille to interrogate him himself.
德拉特雷穆耶先生走近他，让他吸入一些盐，这使他恢复了活力。德·特雷维尔先生不愿意让别人认为他影响了那个伤员，于是要求德拉·特雷穆耶先生亲自审问他。

That happened which M. de Treville had foreseen. Placed between life and death, as Bernajoux was, he had no idea for a moment of concealing the truth; and he described to the two nobles the affair exactly as it had passed.
德特雷维尔先生预见到了这一点。正如伯纳茹一样，他置身于生与死之间，一刻也不知道要隐瞒真相。他向两位贵族原原本本地描述了事情的经过。

This was all that M. de Treville wanted. He wished Bernajoux a speedy convalescence, took leave of M. de la Tremouille, returned to his hotel, and immediately sent word to the four friends that he awaited their company at dinner.
这就是德特雷维尔先生想要的一切。他祝愿贝尔纳茹早日康复，向德拉特雷穆耶先生告别，回到旅馆，并立即通知四位朋友，他正在等待他们共进晚餐。

M. de Treville entertained good company, wholly anticardinalist, though. It may easily be understood, therefore, that the conversation during the whole of dinner turned upon the two checks that his Eminence’s Guardsmen had received. Now, as d’Artagnan had been the hero of these two fights, it was upon him that all the felicitations fell, which Athos, Porthos, and Aramis abandoned to him, not only as good comrades, but as men who had so often had their turn that could very well afford him his.
不过，德特雷维尔先生招待了很多好朋友，但他完全是反枢机派的。因此，很容易理解，整个晚宴期间的谈话都集中在大人的卫兵收到的两张支票上。现在，由于达达尼昂是这两场战斗的英雄，阿托斯、波尔托斯和阿拉米斯都对他表示了所有的祝贺，不仅因为他是好同志，而且因为他经常与他相处。轮到他们了，他完全可以负担​​得起。

Toward six o’clock M. de Treville announced that it was time to go to the Louvre; but as the hour of audience granted by his Majesty was past, instead of claiming the ENTREE by the back stairs, he placed himself with the four young men in the antechamber. The king had not yet returned from hunting. Our young men had been waiting about half an hour, amid a crowd of courtiers, when all the doors were thrown open, and his Majesty was announced.
六点左右，德·特雷维尔先生宣布该去卢浮宫了。但由于国王陛下授予的接见时间已经过去，他没有在后楼梯上占据主菜，而是和四个年轻人一起坐在了前厅。国王打猎还没有回来。当所有的门都打开时，我们的年轻人在一群朝臣中等待了大约半个小时，宣布了国王陛下的消息。

At his announcement d’Artagnan felt himself tremble to the very marrow of his bones. The coming instant would in all probability decide the rest of his life. His eyes therefore were fixed in a sort of agony upon the door through which the king must enter.
达达尼昂听到他的宣布，感到自己从骨髓里颤抖起来。即将到来的那一刻很可能会决定他的余生。因此，他的眼睛以一种痛苦的方式盯着国王必须进入的那扇门。

Louis XIII appeared, walking fast. He was in hunting costume covered with dust, wearing large boots, and holding a whip in his hand. At the first glance, d’Artagnan judged that the mind of the king was stormy.
路易十三出现了，步伐飞快。他穿着一身沾满灰尘的狩猎服，穿着大靴子，手里拿着一根鞭子。达达尼昂第一眼就判断出国王的心思很复杂。

This disposition, visible as it was in his Majesty, did not prevent the courtiers from ranging themselves along his pathway. In royal antechambers it is worth more to be viewed with an angry eye than not to be seen at all. The three Musketeers therefore did not hesitate to make a step forward. D’Artagnan on the contrary remained concealed behind them; but although the king knew Athos, Porthos, and Aramis personally, he passed before them without speaking or looking—indeed, as if he had never seen them before. As for M. de Treville, when the eyes of the king fell upon him, he sustained the look with so much firmness that it was the king who dropped his eyes; after which his Majesty, grumbling, entered his apartment.
这种性格在国王陛下身上显而易见，但并没有阻止朝臣们沿着他的道路走来走去。在皇家前厅，被人用愤怒的目光注视比根本不被人看见更有价值。于是，三剑客毫不犹豫的向前迈出了一步。相反，达达尼昂仍然隐藏在他们身后。尽管国王认识阿托斯、波尔托斯和阿拉米斯，但他从他们面前走过时，没有说话，也没有看他们——事实上，就好像他以前从未见过他们一样。至于德·特雷维尔先生，当国王的目光落在他身上时，他的眼神如此坚定，以至于国王垂下了目光。随后，国王陛下带着牢骚走进了他的寓所。

‘Matters go but badly,’ said Athos, smiling; ‘and we shall not be made Chevaliers of the Order this time.’
“事情进展得很糟糕，”阿托斯微笑着说道。 “这次我们不会被授予骑士勋章。”

‘Wait here ten minutes,’ said M. de Treville; ‘and if at the expiration of ten minutes you do not see me come out, return to my hotel, for it will be useless for you to wait for me longer.’
“在这里等十分钟，”德特雷维尔先生说。 “如果十分钟后你还没有看到我出来，就回我的旅馆吧，因为你再等我也是没有用的。”

The four young men waited ten minutes, a quarter of an hour, twenty minutes; and seeing that M. de Treville did not return, went away very uneasy as to what was going to happen.
四个年轻人等了十分钟，一刻钟，二十分钟；等了十分钟，一刻钟，二十分钟。德·特雷维尔先生见他没有回来，就走开了，心里很不安，不知道接下来会发生什么。

M. de Treville entered the king’s cabinet boldly, and found his Majesty in a very ill humor, seated on an armchair, beating his boot with the handle of his whip. This, however, did not prevent his asking, with the greatest coolness, after his Majesty’s health.
德·特雷维尔先生大胆地走进国王的内阁，发现国王陛下坐在扶手椅上，用鞭柄敲打着靴子，心情非常不好。然而，这并没有阻止他以最冷静的态度询问陛下的健康状况。

‘Bad, monsieur, bad!’ replied the king; ‘I am bored.’
“糟糕，先生，糟糕！”国王回答道。 '好无聊。'

This was, in fact, the worst complaint of Louis XIII, who would sometimes take one of his courtiers to a window and say, ‘Monsieur So-and-so, let us weary ourselves together.’
事实上，这是路易十三最糟糕的抱怨，他有时会把他的一位朝臣带到窗前说：“某某先生，让我们一起疲惫吧。”

‘How! Your Majesty is bored? Have you not enjoyed the pleasures of the chase today?’
'如何！陛下无聊吗？你今天没有享受追逐的乐趣吗？

‘A fine pleasure, indeed, monsieur! Upon my soul, everything degenerates; and I don’t know whether it is the game which leaves no scent, or the dogs that have no noses. We started a stag of ten branches. We chased him for six hours, and when he was near being taken—when St.-Simon was already putting his horn to his mouth to sound the mort—crack, all the pack takes the wrong scent and sets off after a two-year-older. I shall be obliged to give up hunting, as I have given up hawking. Ah, I am an unfortunate king, Monsieur de Treville! I had but one gerfalcon, and he died day before yesterday.’
“确实很高兴，先生！在我的灵魂上，一切都退化了；我不知道是游戏没有留下气味，还是狗没有鼻子。我们开始了十个分支的雄鹿。我们追了他六个小时，当他快要被抓住时——当圣西门已经把号角放到嘴边以发出死亡声音时——突然，所有的狼群都闻到了错误的气味，在两年后出发了。 -旧的。我将不得不放弃狩猎，就像我放弃鹰猎一样。啊，我是一个不幸的国王，德·特雷维尔先生！我只有一只猎鹰，他前天就死了。”

‘Indeed, sire, I wholly comprehend your disappointment. The misfortune is great; but I think you have still a good number of falcons, sparrow hawks, and tiercets.’
“确实，陛下，我完全理解您的失望。祸患很大；但我认为你们仍然有很多猎鹰、雀鹰和雀鹰。”

‘And not a man to instruct them. Falconers are declining. I know no one but myself who is acquainted with the noble art of venery. After me it will all be over, and people will hunt with gins, snares, and traps. If I had but the time to train pupils! But there is the cardinal always at hand, who does not leave me a moment’s repose; who talks to me about Spain, who talks to me about Austria, who talks to me about England! Ah! A PROPOS of the cardinal, Monsieur de Treville, I am vexed with you!’
‘而且没有一个人来指导他们。猎鹰者正在减少。除了我自己之外，我不认识任何人熟悉高贵的装饰艺术。在我之后，一切都将结束，人们将用杜松子酒、网罗和陷阱来狩猎。如果我有时间训练学生就好了！但红衣主教总是在身边，不让我有片刻的休息；谁和我谈论西班牙，谁和我谈论奥地利，谁和我谈论英格兰！啊!红衣主教德特雷维尔先生的建议，我对你很恼火！

This was the chance at which M. de Treville waited for the king. He knew the king of old, and he knew that all these complaints were but a preface—a sort of excitation to encourage himself— and that he had now come to his point at last.
这是德·特雷维尔先生等待国王的机会。他了解古代的国王，他知道所有这些抱怨只是序言——一种鼓励自己的激励——而他现在终于说到了他的观点。

‘And in what have I been so unfortunate as to displease your Majesty?’ asked M. de Treville, feigning the most profound astonishment.
“我到底做了什么不幸的事情，让陛下不高兴了？”德·特雷维尔先生问道，装出一副极其惊讶的样子。

‘Is it thus you perform your charge, monsieur?’ continued the king, without directly replying to de Treville’s question. ‘Is it for this I name you captain of my Musketeers, that they should assassinate a man, disturb a whole quarter, and endeavor to set fire to Paris, without your saying a word? But yet,’ continued the king, ‘undoubtedly my haste accuses you wrongfully; without doubt the rioters are in prison, and you come to tell me justice is done.’
“先生，您就是这样履行职责的吗？”国王继续说道，但没有直接回答德特雷维尔的问题。 “我任命你为我的火枪手队长，难道就是为了让他们在你不说一句话的情况下刺杀一个人，扰乱整个街区，并试图纵火焚烧巴黎吗？”但是，”国王继续说道，“毫无疑问，我的仓促错误地指责了你；毫无疑问，暴乱者已经入狱了，而你却来告诉我正义已经得到了伸张。”

‘Sire,’ replied M. de Treville, calmly, ‘on the contrary, I come to demand it of you.’
“陛下，”德·特雷维尔先生平静地回答道，“恰恰相反，我是来向您提出要求的。”

‘And against whom?’ cried the king.
“那么针对谁呢？”国王喊道。

‘Against calumniators,’ said M. de Treville.
“反对诽谤者，”德特雷维尔先生说。

‘Ah! This is something new,’ replied the king. ‘Will you tell me that your three damned Musketeers, Athos, Porthos, and Aramis, and your youngster from Bearn, have not fallen, like so many furies, upon poor Bernajoux, and have not maltreated him in such a fashion that probably by this time he is dead? Will you tell me that they did not lay siege to the hotel of the Duc de la Tremouille, and that they did not endeavor to burn it?—which would not, perhaps, have been a great misfortune in time of war, seeing that it is nothing but a nest of Huguenots, but which is, in time of peace, a frightful example. Tell me, now, can you deny all this?’
'啊！这是新事物。”国王回答道。 “你能告诉我，你的三个该死的火枪手阿托斯、波尔托斯和阿拉米斯，还有你来自贝阿恩的孩子，并没有像许多愤怒的人一样，袭击可怜的贝尔纳茹，也没有以这样的方式虐待他，也许是这样的。”他什么时候死？你能告诉我，他们没有围攻特雷穆耶公爵的旅馆，也没有试图烧毁它吗？——这在战争时期也许不是一个巨大的不幸，因为它只不过是胡格诺教徒的巢穴，但在和平时期，这是一个可怕的例子。现在告诉我，你能否认这一切吗？

‘And who told you this fine story, sire?’ asked Treville, quietly.
“陛下，是谁告诉您这个好故事的？”特雷维尔轻声问道。

‘Who has told me this fine story, monsieur? Who should it be but he who watches while I sleep, who labors while I amuse myself, who conducts everything at home and abroad—in France as in Europe?’
“谁告诉我这个好故事的，先生？除了在我睡觉时监视、在我自娱自乐时劳动、在国内外（法国和欧洲）指挥一切的人之外，还能是谁呢？

‘Your Majesty probably refers to God,’ said M. de Treville; ‘for I know no one except God who can be so far above your Majesty.’
“陛下可能指的是上帝，”德特雷维尔先生说。 “因为除了上帝之外，我不知道谁能比陛下高出如此之多。”

‘No, monsieur; I speak of the prop of the state, of my only servant, of my only friend—of the cardinal.’
“不，先生；我谈论的是国家的支柱，我唯一的仆人，我唯一的朋友——红衣主教。

‘His Eminence is not his holiness, sire.’
“陛下，陛下并非圣尊。”

‘What do you mean by that, monsieur?’
“先生，您这是什么意思？”

‘That it is only the Pope who is infallible, and that this infallibility does not extend to cardinals.’
“只有教皇是绝对正确的，而这种绝对错误并不适用于红衣主教。”

‘You mean to say that he deceives me; you mean to say that he betrays me? You accuse him, then? Come, speak; avow freely that you accuse him!’
‘你的意思是说他欺骗了我；你的意思是说他背叛了我？那你指责他？来吧，说话；坦白承认你指控他！

‘No, sire, but I say that he deceives himself. I say that he is ill-informed. I say that he has hastily accused your Majesty’s Musketeers, toward whom he is unjust, and that he has not obtained his information from good sources.’
“不，陛下，但我说他是在欺骗自己。我说他无知。我说他仓促地指责了陛下的火枪手，对他们不公正，而且他没有从可靠的来源获得信息。

‘The accusation comes from Monsieur de la Tremouille, from the duke himself. What do you say to that?’
“这一指控来自德拉特雷穆耶先生，来自公爵本人。你对那个有什么想法？'

‘I might answer, sire, that he is too deeply interested in the question to be a very impartial witness; but so far from that, sire, I know the duke to be a royal gentleman, and I refer the matter to him—but upon one condition, sire.’
“我可能会回答，陛下，他对这个问题太感兴趣，无法成为一个非常公正的证人；但远非如此，陛下，我知道公爵是一位皇家绅士，我将此事转告他——但有一个条件，陛下。

‘What?’
'什么？'

‘It is that your Majesty will make him come here, will interrogate him yourself, TETE-A-TETE, without witnesses, and that I shall see your Majesty as soon as you have seen the duke.’
“陛下会让他来这里，亲自审问他，TETE-A-TETE，没有证人，一旦您见到公爵，我就会见陛下。”

‘What, then! You will bind yourself,’ cried the king, ‘by what Monsieur de la Tremouille shall say?’
'然后怎样呢！ “你要遵守德拉特雷穆耶先生的话，”国王喊道，“你会说什么？”

‘Yes, sire.’
“是的，陛下。”

‘You will accept his judgment?’
“你会接受他的判断吗？”

‘Undoubtedly.’
'无疑。'

‘Any you will submit to the reparation he may require?’
“你愿意接受他可能要求的赔偿吗？”

‘Certainly.’
'当然。'

‘La Chesnaye,’ said the king. ‘La Chesnaye!’
“La Chesnaye，”国王说。 “拉切斯奈！”

Louis XIII’s confidential valet, who never left the door, entered in reply to the call.
路易十三的贴身侍从从不离开门，应门而入。

‘La Chesnaye,’ said the king, ‘let someone go instantly and find Monsieur de la Tremouille; I wish to speak with him this evening.’
“拉切斯奈，”国王说道，“立即派人去寻找德·拉·特雷穆耶先生；我想今晚和他谈谈。

‘Your Majesty gives me your word that you will not see anyone between Monsieur de la Tremouille and myself?’
“陛下向我保证，您不会看到德拉特雷穆耶先生和我之间的任何人？”

‘Nobody, by the faith of a gentleman.’
“以绅士的信念，没有人。”

‘Tomorrow, then, sire?’
“那么明天呢，陛下？”

‘Tomorrow, monsieur.’
“明天，先生。”

‘At what o’clock, please your Majesty?’
“请问陛下，几点钟？”

‘At any hour you will.’
“任何时候你都会。”

‘But in coming too early I should be afraid of awakening your Majesty.’
“但是来得太早我会害怕吵醒陛下。”

‘Awaken me! Do you think I ever sleep, then? I sleep no longer, monsieur. I sometimes dream, that’s all. Come, then, as early as you like—at seven o’clock; but beware, if you and your Musketeers are guilty.’
‘叫醒我吧！那你认为我睡过吗？我不再睡觉了，先生。我有时会做梦，仅此而已。那么，只要你愿意，就来吧——七点钟；但要小心，如果你和你的火枪手有罪的话。”

‘If my Musketeers are guilty, sire, the guilty shall be placed in your Majesty’s hands, who will dispose of them at your good pleasure. Does your Majesty require anything further? Speak, I am ready to obey.’
“如果我的火枪手有罪，陛下，有罪的人将被交到陛下手中，陛下将按照您的意愿处置他们。陛下还有什么要求吗？说吧，我准备服从。

‘No, monsieur, no; I am not called Louis the Just without reason. Tomorrow, then, monsieur—tomorrow.’
“不，先生，不；”我被称为正义者路易并不是没有理由的。那么，明天，先生——明天。”

‘Till then, God preserve your Majesty!’
“到那时，愿上帝保佑陛下！”

However ill the king might sleep, M. de Treville slept still worse. He had ordered his three Musketeers and their companion to be with him at half past six in the morning. He took them with him, without encouraging them or promising them anything, and without concealing from them that their luck, and even his own, depended upon the cast of the dice.
不管国王睡得有多糟糕，德特雷维尔先生睡得更糟。他命令他的三个火枪手和他们的同伴在早上六点半跟他在一起。他带着他们一起走，没有鼓励他们，也没有向他们许诺任何事情，也没有向他们隐瞒他们的运气，甚至他自己的运气，都取决于骰子的掷出。

Arrived at the foot of the back stairs, he desired them to wait. If the king was still irritated against them, they would depart without being seen; if the king consented to see them, they would only have to be called.
到了后楼梯脚下，他希望他们稍等一下。如果国王仍然对他们感到恼怒，他们就会悄悄离开；如果国王同意会见他们，只需要传唤他们即可。

On arriving at the king’s private antechamber, M. de Treville found La Chesnaye, who informed him that they had not been able to find M. de la Tremouille on the preceding evening at his hotel, that he returned too late to present himself at the Louvre, that he had only that moment arrived and that he was at that very hour with the king.
到达国王的私人前厅后，德特雷维尔先生找到了拉切斯奈，拉切斯奈告诉他，前一天晚上他们在他的旅馆里没能找到德拉特雷穆耶先生，他回来得太晚了，无法出席国王的宴会。卢浮宫，他只到了那一刻，而他就在那一刻与国王在一起。

This circumstance pleased M. de Treville much, as he thus became certain that no foreign suggestion could insinuate itself between M. de la Tremouille’s testimony and himself.
这种情况让德·特雷维尔先生非常高兴，因为他因此确信在德·拉·特雷穆耶先生的证词和他自己之间不会有任何外国暗示。

In fact, ten minutes had scarcely passed away when the door of the king’s closet opened, and M. de Treville saw M. de la Tremouille come out. The duke came straight up to him, and said: ‘Monsieur de Treville, his Majesty has just sent for me in order to inquire respecting the circumstances which took place yesterday at my hotel. I have told him the truth; that is to say, that the fault lay with my people, and that I was ready to offer you my excuses. Since I have the good fortune to meet you, I beg you to receive them, and to hold me always as one of your friends.’
事实上，还不到十分钟，国王的衣柜门就打开了，德·特雷维尔先生看见德拉·特雷穆耶先生走了出来。公爵径直走到他面前，说道：“德·特雷维尔先生，陛下刚刚派人来找我，是为了询问昨天在我的旅馆发生的情况。我已经告诉他真相了；也就是说，错误在于我的人民，而我已经准备好向你提供我的借口。既然我有幸见到你，我恳求你接待他们，并永远把我当作你的朋友之一。

‘Monsieur the Duke,’ said M. de Treville, ‘I was so confident of your loyalty that I required no other defender before his Majesty than yourself. I find that I have not been mistaken, and I thank you that there is still one man in France of whom may be said, without disappointment, what I have said of you.’
“公爵先生，”德·特雷维尔先生说道，“我对您的忠诚非常有信心，除了您之外，在陛下面前我不需要任何其他捍卫者。我发现我没有弄错，我感谢你，法国仍然有一个人，可以毫不失望地说出我对你的评价。

‘That’s well said,’ cried the king, who had heard all these compliments through the open door; ‘only tell him, Treville, since he wishes to be considered your friend, that I also wish to be one of his, but he neglects me; that it is nearly three years since I have seen him, and that I never do see him unless I send for him. Tell him all this for me, for these are things which a king cannot say for himself.’
“说得好，”国王喊道，他从敞开的门里听到了所有这些赞美。 “只要告诉他，特雷维尔，既然他希望被视为你的朋友，我也希望成为他的一员，但他忽视了我；我已经快三年没有见到他了，除非我派人去找他，否则我永远也见不到他。替我告诉他这一切，因为这些事情是国王不能为自己说的。”

‘Thanks, sire, thanks,’ said the duke; ‘but your Majesty may be assured that it is not those—I do not speak of Monsieur de Treville—whom your Majesty sees at all hours of the day that are most devoted to you.’
“谢谢，陛下，谢谢，”公爵说。 “但是陛下请放心，陛下全天所见的人并不是那些——我不是指德特雷维尔先生——对您最忠诚。”

‘Ah! You have heard what I said? So much the better, Duke, so much the better,’ said the king, advancing toward the door. ‘Ah! It is you, Treville. Where are your Musketeers? I told you the day before yesterday to bring them with you; why have you not done so?’
'啊！你听到我说的话了吗？那就更好了，公爵，那就更好了。”国王边说边向门口走去。 '啊！是你，特雷维尔。你的火枪手在哪里？我前天告诉过你带上它们；你为什么不这样做？

‘They are below, sire, and with your permission La Chesnaye will bid them come up.’
“他们在下面，陛下，如果您允许，拉切斯奈会命令他们上来。”

‘Yes, yes, let them come up immediately. It is nearly eight o’clock, and at nine I expect a visit. Go, Monsieur Duke, and return often. Come in, Treville.’
‘是是是，让他们立刻上来。现在已经快八点了，我预计九点钟有人来访。杜克先生，去吧，常回来。进来吧，特雷维尔。”

The Duke saluted and retired. At the moment he opened the door, the three Musketeers and d’Artagnan, conducted by La Chesnaye, appeared at the top of the staircase.
公爵行礼告退。在他打开门的瞬间，三个火枪手和达达尼昂在拉切斯奈的带领下出现在了楼梯顶端。

‘Come in, my braves,’ said the king, ‘come in; I am going to scold you.’
“进来吧，我的勇士们，”国王说，“进来吧；我要骂你。

The Musketeers advanced, bowing, d’Artagnan following closely behind them.
火枪手们鞠躬行进，达达尼昂紧随其后。

‘What the devil!’ continued the king. ‘Seven of his Eminence’s Guards placed HORS DE COMBAT by you four in two days! That’s too many, gentlemen, too many! If you go on so, his Eminence will be forced to renew his company in three weeks, and I to put the edicts in force in all their rigor. One now and then I don’t say much about; but seven in two days, I repeat, it is too many, it is far too many!’
“见鬼了！”国王继续说道。 “两天之内，大人的七名侍卫就让你们四人失去了战斗力！”太多了，先生们，太多了！如果再这样下去，陛下将被迫在三周内更新他的公司，而我将严格执行法令。有时我不会多说；但两天之内就七次了，我重复一遍，太多了，太多了！”

‘Therefore, sire, your Majesty sees that they are come, quite contrite and repentant, to offer you their excuses.’
“因此，陛下，陛下看到他们是带着悔恨和忏悔的心情来向您提出借口的。”

‘Quite contrite and repentant! Hem!’ said the king. ‘I place no confidence in their hypocritical faces. In particular, there is one yonder of a Gascon look. Come hither, monsieur.’
‘真是悔罪、悔改啊！哼！”国王说道。 “我对他们虚伪的面孔不信任。特别是，那边有一种加斯科涅风格。过来吧，先生。

D’Artagnan, who understood that it was to him this compliment was addressed, approached, assuming a most deprecating air.
达达尼昂明白这番恭维是对他说的，他走上前来，摆出一副极其不以为然的神情。

‘Why you told me he was a young man? This is a boy, Treville, a mere boy! Do you mean to say that it was he who bestowed that severe thrust at Jussac?’
“你为什么告诉我他是个年轻人？这是一个男孩，特雷维尔，一个单纯的男孩！你的意思是说，是他对朱萨克施加了如此猛烈的一击？

‘And those two equally fine thrusts at Bernajoux.’
“还有对伯纳茹的那两次同样精彩的推击。”

‘Truly!’
“真的！”

‘Without reckoning,’ said Athos, ‘that if he had not rescued me from the hands of Cahusac, I should not now have the honor of making my very humble reverence to your Majesty.’
“我想，”阿托斯说道，“如果他没有把我从卡胡萨克手中救出来，我现在就没有荣幸向陛下致以最卑微的敬意。”

‘Why he is a very devil, this Bearnais! VENTRE-SAINT-GRIS, Monsieur de Treville, as the king my father would have said. But at this sort of work, many doublets must be slashed and many swords broken. Now, Gascons are always poor, are they not?’
‘为什么他是一个非常魔鬼的人，这个贝奈斯！ VENTRE-SAINT-GRIS，德特雷维尔先生，就像我父亲的国王会说的那样。但在这种工作中，必须砍断许多紧身衣，折断许多剑。现在，加斯康人总是很穷，不是吗？

‘Sire, I can assert that they have hitherto discovered no gold mines in their mountains; though the Lord owes them this miracle in recompense for the manner in which they supported the pretensions of the king your father.’
“陛下，我可以断言，他们迄今为止在山上还没有发现金矿；尽管上帝欠他们这个奇迹，以补偿他们支持你父亲国王的主张。

‘Which is to say that the Gascons made a king of me, myself, seeing that I am my father’s son, is it not, Treville? Well, happily, I don’t say nay to it. La Chesnaye, go and see if by rummaging all my pockets you can find forty pistoles; and if you can find them, bring them to me. And now let us see, young man, with your hand upon your conscience, how did all this come to pass?’
“这就是说，加斯科尼人拥立我为国王，因为我是我父亲的儿子，不是吗，特雷维尔？好吧，很高兴，我不会拒绝。拉切斯奈，你去翻遍我的口袋，看看能不能找到四十皮斯托尔；如果你能找到它们，就把它们带给我。现在让我们看看，年轻人，凭着你的良心，这一切是如何发生的？

D’Artagnan related the adventure of the preceding day in all its details; how, not having been able to sleep for the joy he felt in the expectation of seeing his Majesty, he had gone to his three friends three hours before the hour of audience; how they had gone together to the tennis court, and how, upon the fear he had manifested lest he receive a ball in the face, he had been jeered at by Bernajoux who had nearly paid for his jeer with his life and M. de la Tremouille, who had nothing to do with the matter, with the loss of his hotel.
达达尼昂详细讲述了前一天的冒险经历。他因期待见到国王陛下而高兴得无法入睡，于是在觐见时间前三小时就去找了他的三个朋友。他们是如何一起去网球场的，以及他是如何表现出害怕被球打到脸上的恐惧，他是如何受到贝尔纳茹的嘲笑的，贝尔纳茹几乎为他的嘲笑付出了生命和德拉先生的代价。特雷穆耶与这件事无关，他的酒店被毁了。

‘This is all very well,’ murmured the king, ‘yes, this is just the account the duke gave me of the affair. Poor cardinal! Seven men in two days, and those of his very best! But that’s quite enough, gentlemen; please to understand, that’s enough. You have taken your revenge for the Rue Ferou, and even exceeded it; you ought to be satisfied.’
“这一切都很好，”国王低声说道，“是的，这正是公爵向我讲述的这件事。可怜的红衣主教！两天之内七个男人，而且都是他最优秀的人！但这已经足够了，先生们；请理解，这就够了。你已经为费鲁街报了仇，甚至超越了它；你应该感到满意。

‘If your Majesty is so,’ said Treville, ‘we are.’
“如果陛下是这样，”特雷维尔说，“我们就是这样。”

‘Oh, yes; I am,’ added the king, taking a handful of gold from La Chesnaye, and putting it into the hand of d’Artagnan. ‘Here,’ said he, ‘is a proof of my satisfaction.’
'哦是的;是的，”国王补充道，从拉切斯奈手中抓起一把金子，放到了达达尼昂的手中。 “这是我满意的证明，”他说。

At this epoch, the ideas of pride which are in fashion in our days did not prevail. A gentleman received, from hand to hand, money from the king, and was not the least in the world humiliated. D’Artagnan put his forty pistoles into his pocket without any scruple—on the contrary, thanking his Majesty greatly.
在这个时代，我们这个时代流行的骄傲观念并没有盛行。一位绅士从国王手中接过钱财，却没有受到丝毫的羞辱。达达尼昂毫无顾忌地将四十皮托揣进了口袋——相反，他对国王陛下深表谢意。

‘There,’ said the king, looking at a clock, ‘there, now, as it is half past eight, you may retire; for as I told you, I expect someone at nine. Thanks for your devotedness, gentlemen. I may continue to rely upon it, may I not?’
“好了，”国王看着时钟说道，“好了，现在已经是八点半了，你们可以休息了。正如我告诉过你的，我预计九点钟会有人来。感谢你们的奉献，先生们。我可以继续依赖它，不是吗？

‘Oh, sire!’ cried the four companions, with one voice, ‘we would allow ourselves to be cut to pieces in your Majesty’s service.’
“噢，陛下！”四个同伴异口同声地喊道，“为陛下服务，我们宁愿被切成碎片。”

‘Well, well, but keep whole; that will be better, and you will be more useful to me. Treville,’ added the king, in a low voice, as the others were retiring, ‘as you have no room in the Musketeers, and as we have besides decided that a novitiate is necessary before entering that corps, place this young man in the company of the Guards of Monsieur Dessessart, your brother-in-law. Ah, PARDIEU, Treville! I enjoy beforehand the face the cardinal will make. He will be furious; but I don’t care. I am doing what is right.’
“好吧，好吧，但要保持完整；那样会更好，你对我会更有用。特雷维尔，”国王低声补充道，其他人都快要退场了，“火枪手队已经没有你的位置了，而且我们还决定，在进入该军团之前需要先进行见习，所以把这个年轻人安排在火枪手队里。”你姐夫德塞萨尔先生的卫兵的陪伴。啊，帕迪厄，特雷维尔！我事先很喜欢红衣主教的表情。他会发怒；但我不在乎。我正在做正确的事。

The king waved his hand to Treville, who left him and rejoined the Musketeers, whom he found sharing the forty pistoles with d’Artagnan.
国王向特雷维尔挥了挥手，特雷维尔离开了他，重新加入了火枪手队伍，他发现火枪手们正在与达达尼昂分享四十皮斯托尔。

The cardinal, as his Majesty had said, was really furious, so furious that during eight days he absented himself from the king’s gaming table. This did not prevent the king from being as complacent to him as possible whenever he met him, or from asking in the kindest tone, ‘Well, Monsieur Cardinal, how fares it with that poor Jussac and that poor Bernajoux of yours?’
正如陛下所说，红衣主教非常愤怒，愤怒到八天之内他都没有离开国王的赌桌。但这并没有阻止国王每次见到他时都尽可能地对他感到自满，或者用最友善的语气问道：“那么，红衣主教先生，你那可怜的朱萨克和可怜的伯纳茹怎么样了？”

7 THE INTERIOR OF ‘THE MUSKETEERS”
7 “火枪手”的内部

When d’Artagnan was out of the Louvre, and consulted his friends upon the use he had best make of his share of the forty pistoles, Athos advised him to order a good repast at the Pomme-de-Pin, Porthos to engage a lackey, and Aramis to provide himself with a suitable mistress.
当达达尼昂离开卢浮宫时，他向朋友们咨询了如何最好地利用他那份四十皮斯托尔的份额，阿托斯建议他去波尔托斯的Pomme-de-Pin餐厅吃顿丰盛的饭菜，去聘请一个跟班。 ，和阿拉米斯为自己提供一个合适的情妇。

The repast was carried into effect that very day, and the lackey waited at table. The repast had been ordered by Athos, and the lackey furnished by Porthos. He was a Picard, whom the glorious Musketeer had picked up on the Bridge Tournelle, making rings and plashing in the water.
宴会当天就开始了，仆人在餐桌上侍候。饭菜是阿托斯吩咐的，仆人是波托斯安排的。他是一位皮卡德人，是那位光荣的火枪手在图内尔桥上捡到的，他在水中打圈、嬉戏。

Porthos pretended that this occupation was proof of a reflective and contemplative organization, and he had brought him away without any other recommendation. The noble carriage of this gentleman, for whom he believed himself to be engaged, had won Planchet—that was the name of the Picard. He felt a slight disappointment, however, when he saw that this place was already taken by a compeer named Mousqueton, and when Porthos signified to him that the state of his household, though great, would not support two servants, and that he must enter into the service of d’Artagnan. Nevertheless, when he waited at the dinner given by his master, and saw him take out a handful of gold to pay for it, he believed his fortune made, and returned thanks to heaven for having thrown him into the service of such a Croesus. He preserved this opinion even after the feast, with the remnants of which he repaired his own long abstinence; but when in the evening he made his master’s bed, the chimeras of Planchet faded away. The bed was the only one in the apartment, which consisted of an antechamber and a bedroom. Planchet slept in the antechamber upon a coverlet taken from the bed of d’Artagnan, and which d’Artagnan from that time made shift to do without.
波尔托斯假装这种职业是一个反思和沉思组织的证明，他在没有任何其他建议的情况下就将他带走了。这位绅士的高贵举止，他相信自己是为他订婚的，赢得了普兰谢特——这就是皮卡德的名字。然而，当他看到这个地方已经被一位名叫穆斯克东的同伴占据时，他感到有点失望，当波尔托斯向他表示，他的家庭状况虽然很好，但无法养活两个仆人时，他必须进入为达达尼昂服务。然而，当他等待主人举办的晚宴时，看到主人拿出一把金子来付账，他相信自己的财富已经发了，并感谢上天让他为这样一个克洛伊索斯服务。即使在宴会结束后，他仍然保留了这一观点，并用这些残余来修复自己长期的禁欲。但当晚上他给主人铺床时，普兰切特的幻想就消失了。公寓由前厅和卧室组成，床是唯一的一张床。普朗谢睡在前厅里，盖着从达达尼昂床上取下的被单，从那时起，达达尼昂就不再穿这条被子了。

Athos, on his part, had a valet whom he had trained in his service in a thoroughly peculiar fashion, and who was named Grimaud. He was very taciturn, this worthy signor. Be it understood we are speaking of Athos. During the five or six years that he had lived in the strictest intimacy with his companions, Porthos and Aramis, they could remember having often seen him smile, but had never heard him laugh. His words were brief and expressive, conveying all that was meant, and no more; no embellishments, no embroidery, no arabesques. His conversation a matter of fact, without a single romance.
阿多斯则有一个仆人，他以一种完全奇特的方式训练了他为他服务，他的名字叫格里莫。这位尊贵的先生非常沉默寡言。可以理解我们说的是阿托斯。在他与同伴波托斯和阿拉米斯过着最亲密的生活的五六年里，他们记得经常看到他微笑，但从未听过他笑过。他的话简短而富有表现力，传达了所有意思，仅此而已。没有装饰，没有刺绣，没有阿拉伯式花纹。他的谈话很平淡，没有一丝浪漫色彩。

Although Athos was scarcely thirty years old, and was of great personal beauty and intelligence of mind, no one knew whether he had ever had a mistress. He never spoke of women. He certainly did not prevent others from speaking of them before him, although it was easy to perceive that this kind of conversation, in which he only mingled by bitter words and misanthropic remarks, was very disagreeable to him. His reserve, his roughness, and his silence made almost an old man of him. He had, then, in order not to disturb his habits, accustomed Grimaud to obey him upon a simple gesture or upon a simple movement of his lips. He never spoke to him, except under the most extraordinary occasions.
阿托斯虽然还不到三十岁，而且相貌俊美，头脑聪明，但没人知道他是否有过情妇。他从不谈论女人。他当然不会阻止别人在他面前谈论他们，尽管很容易看出，这种他只夹杂着苦涩的话语和厌世言论的谈话对他来说是非常不愉快的。他的矜持、粗鲁和沉默让他几乎成了一个老人。那么，为了不扰乱他的习惯，他习惯了格里莫通过一个简单的手势或嘴唇的简单动作来服从他。除了在最特殊的场合之外，他从来不跟他说话。

Sometimes, Grimaud, who feared his master as he did fire, while entertaining a strong attachment to his person and a great veneration for his talents, believed he perfectly understood what he wanted, flew to execute the order received, and did precisely the contrary. Athos then shrugged his shoulders, and, without putting himself in a passion, thrashed Grimaud. On these days he spoke a little.
有时，格里莫在主人开火时害怕他，同时又对他本人抱有强烈的依恋和对他的才能的崇敬，他相信他完全明白他想要什么，飞去执行收到的命令，但事实恰恰相反。阿多斯然后耸了耸肩，并没有让自己陷入激情，殴打了格里莫。这些天他说了一点话。

Porthos, as we have seen, had a character exactly opposite to that of Athos. He not only talked much, but he talked loudly, little caring, we must render him that justice, whether anybody listened to him or not. He talked for the pleasure of talking and for the pleasure of hearing himself talk. He spoke upon all subjects except the sciences, alleging in this respect the inveterate hatred he had borne to scholars from his childhood. He had not so noble an air as Athos, and the commencement of their intimacy often rendered him unjust toward that gentleman, whom he endeavored to eclipse by his splendid dress. But with his simple Musketeer’s uniform and nothing but the manner in which he threw back his head and advanced his foot, Athos instantly took the place which was his due and consigned the ostentatious Porthos to the second rank. Porthos consoled himself by filling the antechamber of M. de Treville and the guardroom of the Louvre with the accounts of his love scrapes, after having passed from professional ladies to military ladies, from the lawyer’s dame to the baroness, there was question of nothing less with Porthos than a foreign princess, who was enormously fond of him.
正如我们所见，波尔托斯的性格与阿托斯完全相反。他不仅话多，而且说话大声，不关心，我们必须给他一个公道，不管是否有人听他的。他说话是为了说话的乐趣，也是为了听自己说话的乐趣。他谈到了除科学之外的所有主题，并声称他从小就对学者怀有根深蒂固的仇恨。他没有阿多斯那么高贵的气质，他们的亲密关系一开始就常常使他对那位绅士不公正，他试图用他华丽的衣着使他黯然失色。但阿托斯穿着朴素的火枪手制服，再加上他头向后仰、迈步的动作，立刻占据了他应得的位置，把爱炫耀的波尔托斯排到了第二位。波托斯安慰自己，在德特雷维尔先生的前厅和卢浮宫的警卫室里写满了他的爱情故事，从职业女士到女军人，从律师夫人到男爵夫人，毫无疑问，这是一个问题。与波尔托斯在一起，胜过与一位非常喜欢他的外国公主。

An old proverb says, ‘Like master, like man.’ Let us pass, then, from the valet of Athos to the valet of Porthos, from Grimaud to Mousqueton.
一句古老的谚语说：“有其主人，必有其人。”那么，让我们从阿多斯的男仆转到波尔托斯的男仆，从格里莫转到穆斯克顿。

Mousqueton was a Norman, whose pacific name of Boniface his master had changed into the infinitely more sonorous name of Mousqueton. He had entered the service of Porthos upon condition that he should only be clothed and lodged, though in a handsome manner; but he claimed two hours a day to himself, consecrated to an employment which would provide for his other wants. Porthos agreed to the bargain; the thing suited him wonderfully well. He had doublets cut out of his old clothes and cast-off cloaks for Mousqueton, and thanks to a very intelligent tailor, who made his clothes look as good as new by turning them, and whose wife was suspected of wishing to make Porthos descend from his aristocratic habits, Mousqueton made a very good figure when attending on his master.
穆斯克顿是诺曼人，他的主人博尼法斯这个平易近人的名字后来变成了响亮无比的名字穆斯克顿。他加入波托斯的服务的条件是只给他提供衣服和住宿，尽管是在华丽的方式下。但他要求自己每天花两个小时来从事一项可以满足他其他需要的工作。波尔托斯同意了这笔交易；这件事非常适合他。他用自己的旧衣服和废弃的斗篷为穆斯克顿剪下了紧身衣，多亏了一位非常聪明的裁缝，他通过翻转衣服使他的衣服看起来像新的一样，而他的妻子被怀疑希望让波尔托斯从由于他的贵族习惯，穆斯克东在侍奉他的主人时表现得非常好。

As for Aramis, of whom we believe we have sufficiently explained the character—a character which, like that of his lackey was called Bazin. Thanks to the hopes which his master entertained of someday entering into orders, he was always clothed in black, as became the servant of a churchman. He was a Berrichon, thirty-five or forty years old, mild, peaceable, sleek, employing the leisure his master left him in the perusal of pious works, providing rigorously for two a dinner of few dishes, but excellent. For the rest, he was dumb, blind, and deaf, and of unimpeachable fidelity.
至于阿拉米斯，我们相信我们已经充分解释了他的性格——这个人物和他的走狗一样被称为巴赞。由于他的主人希望有一天能加入命令，他总是穿着黑衣，就像一名牧师的仆人一样。他是贝里雄人，三十五岁或四十岁，温和、平和、圆滑，利用主人留给他的闲暇来研读虔诚的著作，严格地为两人准备了一顿饭菜不多，但非常美味。除此之外，他又哑又聋，又瞎又聋，但对他却有着无可挑剔的忠诚。

And now that we are acquainted, superficially at least, with the masters and the valets, let us pass on to the dwellings occupied by each of them.
既然我们至少在表面上已经熟悉了主人和仆人，那么让我们继续看看他们每个人所居住的住所。

Athos dwelt in the Rue Ferou, within two steps of the Luxembourg. His apartment consisted of two small chambers, very nicely fitted up, in a furnished house, the hostess of which, still young and still really handsome, cast tender glances uselessly at him. Some fragments of past splendor appeared here and there upon the walls of this modest lodging; a sword, for example, richly embossed, which belonged by its make to the times of Francis I, the hilt of which alone, encrusted with precious stones, might be worth two hundred pistoles, and which, nevertheless, in his moments of greatest distress Athos had never pledged or offered for sale. It had long been an object of ambition for Porthos. Porthos would have given ten years of his life to possess this sword.
阿多斯住在费鲁街，距离卢森堡不到两步之遥。他的公寓由两间小房间组成，布置得很漂亮，位于一栋家具齐全的房子里，女主人还年轻，仍然非常英俊，无谓地向他投来温柔的目光。这座朴素住所的墙壁上随处可见昔日辉煌的一些碎片。例如，一把刻有丰富浮雕的剑，其制造属于弗朗西斯一世时代，仅镶有宝石的剑柄就可能价值两百皮斯托尔，尽管如此，在他最痛苦的时刻阿多斯从未承诺或提出出售。长期以来，这一直是波托斯的一个野心目标。为了拥有这把剑，波托斯愿意付出十年的生命。

One day, when he had an appointment with a duchess, he endeavored even to borrow it of Athos. Athos, without saying anything, emptied his pockets, got together all his jewels, purses, aiguillettes, and gold chains, and offered them all to Porthos; but as to the sword, he said it was sealed to its place and should never quit it until its master should himself quit his lodgings. In addition to the sword, there was a portrait representing a nobleman of the time of Henry III, dressed with the greatest elegance, and who wore the Order of the Holy Ghost; and this portrait had certain resemblances of lines with Athos, certain family likenesses which indicated that this great noble, a knight of the Order of the King, was his ancestor.
有一天，当他与一位公爵夫人约会时，他甚至想向阿托斯借用。阿托斯什么也没说，掏空了口袋，把所有的珠宝、钱包、肩带和金链都收集起来，全都献给了波托斯。但至于这把剑，他说它已被封印在原处，除非它的主人亲自离开他的住所，否则永远不要离开它。除了剑之外，还有一幅亨利三世时期一位贵族的肖像，他穿着极其优雅，佩戴着圣灵勋章；这幅肖像与阿多斯的线条有某些相似之处，有某些家族相似之处，这表明这位伟大的贵族，一位国王骑士团的骑士，是他的祖先。

Besides these, a casket of magnificent goldwork, with the same arms as the sword and the portrait, formed a middle ornament to the mantelpiece, and assorted badly with the rest of the furniture. Athos always carried the key of this coffer about him; but he one day opened it before Porthos, and Porthos was convinced that this coffer contained nothing but letters and papers—love letters and family papers, no doubt.
除此之外，还有一个华丽的金制品棺材，上面有与剑和肖像相同的武器，形成了壁炉架的中间装饰品，与家具的其他部分搭配得不好。阿托斯总是随身携带着这个保险箱的钥匙。但有一天，他当着波托斯的面打开了它，波托斯确信这个保险箱里除了信件和文件之外什么也没有——毫无疑问，是情书和家庭文件。

Porthos lived in an apartment, large in size and of very sumptuous appearance, in the Rue du Vieux-Colombier. Every time he passed with a friend before his windows, at one of which Mousqueton was sure to be placed in full livery, Porthos raised his head and his hand, and said, ‘That is my abode!’ But he was never to be found at home; he never invited anybody to go up with him, and no one could form an idea of what his sumptuous apartment contained in the shape of real riches.
波尔托斯住在旧哥伦比耶街的一套公寓里，面积很大，外观非常豪华。每当他和一位朋友在他的窗前经过时，波尔托斯都会抬起头和手，说：“那是我的住处！”但他却永远找不到。在家里;他从来没有邀请任何人和他一起去，没有人能想象他豪华的公寓里到底藏着什么真正的财富。

As to Aramis, he dwelt in a little lodging composed of a boudoir, an eating room, and a bedroom, which room, situated, as the others were, on the ground floor, looked out upon a little fresh green garden, shady and impenetrable to the eyes of his neighbors.
至于阿拉米斯，他住在一间由闺房、餐厅和卧室组成的小住所里，这个房间和其他房间一样，位于底楼，俯瞰着一个绿意盎然的小花园，阴凉而难以穿透。在他的邻居眼中。

With regard to d’Artagnan, we know how he was lodged, and we have already made acquaintance with his lackey, Master Planchet.
至于达达尼昂，我们知道他是如何被安置的，而且我们已经认识了他的走狗普朗谢大师。

D’Artagnan, who was by nature very curious—as people generally are who possess the genius of intrigue—did all he could to make out who Athos, Porthos, and Aramis really were (for under these pseudonyms each of these young men concealed his family name)— Athos in particular, who, a league away, savored of nobility. He addressed himself then to Porthos to gain information respecting Athos and Aramis, and to Aramis in order to learn something of Porthos.
达达尼昂生性好奇——就像那些具有阴谋天赋的人一样——竭尽全力想弄清楚阿托斯、波尔托斯和阿拉米斯到底是谁（因为这些年轻人在这些化名下都隐藏了自己的秘密）。姓氏）​​——尤其是阿托斯，他在一里之外，充满了贵族气息。然后，他向波尔托斯讲话，以获取有关阿托斯和阿拉米斯的信息，并向阿拉米斯讲话，以了解有关波尔托斯的一些信息。

Unfortunately Porthos knew nothing of the life of his silent companion but what revealed itself. It was said Athos had met with great crosses in love, and that a frightful treachery had forever poisoned the life of this gallant man. What could this treachery be? All the world was ignorant of it.
不幸的是，波托斯对这位沉默的同伴的生活一无所知，只知道他所揭露的事情。据说阿托斯在爱情中遇到了巨大的痛苦，而可怕的背叛永远毒害了这个英勇男人的生命。这种背叛可能是什么？全世界都对此一无所知。

As to Porthos, except his real name (as was the case with those of his two comrades), his life was very easily known. Vain and indiscreet, it was as easy to see through him as through a crystal. The only thing to mislead the investigator would have been belief in all the good things he said of himself.
至于波托斯，除了他的真名（他的两位战友也是如此）外，他的生平很容易被人知道。虚荣而轻率，就像透过水晶一样容易看穿他。唯一误导调查员的就是相信他对自己所说的所有好话。

With respect to Aramis, though having the air of having nothing secret about him, he was a young fellow made up of mysteries, answering little to questions put to him about others, and having learned from him the report which prevailed concerning the success of the Musketeer with a princess, wished to gain a little insight into the amorous adventures of his interlocutor. ‘And you, my dear companion,’ said he, ‘you speak of the baronesses, countesses, and princesses of others?’
至于阿拉米斯，尽管他看上去毫无秘密可言，但他是一个充满神秘感的年轻人，很少回答向他提出的有关其他人的问题，并从他那里得知了有关成功的报道。火枪手与一位公主，希望深入了解他的对话者的爱情冒险。 “那你呢，我亲爱的同伴，”他说，“你说的是其他人的男爵夫人、伯爵夫人和公主吗？”

‘PARDIEU! I spoke of them because Porthos talked of them himself, because he had paraded all these fine things before me. But be assured, my dear Monsieur d’Artagnan, that if I had obtained them from any other source, or if they had been confided to me, there exists no confessor more discreet than myself.’
‘帕迪厄！我谈到它们是因为波尔托斯自己也谈到过它们，因为他在我面前展示了所有这些美好的事物。但请放心，我亲爱的达达尼昂先生，如果我从其他来源获得它们，或者如果它们是向我吐露的，那么就没有比我更谨慎的忏悔神父了。

‘Oh, I don’t doubt that,’ replied d’Artagnan; ‘but it seems to me that you are tolerably familiar with coats of arms—a certain embroidered handkerchief, for instance, to which I owe the honor of your acquaintance?’
“哦，我不怀疑这一点，”达达尼昂回答道。 “但在我看来，你对徽章还算熟悉——例如，我有幸认识了一块绣花手帕？”

This time Aramis was not angry, but assumed the most modest air and replied in a friendly tone, ‘My dear friend, do not forget that I wish to belong to the Church, and that I avoid all mundane opportunities. The handkerchief you saw had not been given to me, but it had been forgotten and left at my house by one of my friends. I was obliged to pick it up in order not to compromise him and the lady he loves. As for myself, I neither have, nor desire to have, a mistress, following in that respect the very judicious example of Athos, who has none any more than I have.’
这次阿拉米斯并没有生气，而是摆出了最谦虚的态度，用友好的语气回答道：“亲爱的朋友，请不要忘记，我希望属于教会，并且我会避免一切世俗的机会。”你看到的手帕不是送给我的，而是我的一位朋友忘记放在我家的。我不得不把它捡起来，以免损害他和他所爱的女士。至于我自己，我既没有，也不想有情妇，在这方面，我效仿了阿托斯非常明智的榜样，他和我一样没有情妇。

‘But what the devil! You are not a priest, you are a Musketeer!’
‘但是见鬼了！你不是牧师，你是火枪手！”

‘A Musketeer for a time, my friend, as the cardinal says, a Musketeer against my will, but a churchman at heart, believe me. Athos and Porthos dragged me into this to occupy me. I had, at the moment of being ordained, a little difficulty with—But that would not interest you, and I am taking up your valuable time.’
“我的朋友，暂时当一名火枪手，正如红衣主教所说，虽然是一名违背我意愿的火枪手，但内心却是一名牧师，请相信我。阿托斯和波尔托斯把我拖进这件事，让我占据。我在受戒时遇到了一点困难——但这不会引起你的兴趣，而且我正在占用你的宝贵时间。

‘Not at all; it interests me very much,’ cried d’Artagnan; ‘and at this moment I have absolutely nothing to do.’
'一点也不; “这让我很感兴趣，”达达尼昂喊道。 “此时此刻我完全无事可做。”

‘Yes, but I have my breviary to repeat,’ answered Aramis; ‘then some verses to compose, which Madame d’Aiguillon begged of me. Then I must go to the Rue St. Honore in order to purchase some rouge for Madame de Chevreuse. So you see, my dear friend, that if you are not in a hurry, I am very much in a hurry.’
“是的，但我要重复一遍我的祈祷书，”阿拉米斯回答道。 “然后是艾吉永夫人恳求我写的一些诗句。然后我必须去圣奥诺雷街给谢夫勒斯夫人买一些胭脂。所以你看，我亲爱的朋友，如果你不着急，我就非常着急。”

Aramis held out his hand in a cordial manner to his young companion, and took leave of him.
阿拉米斯亲切地向他的年轻同伴伸出了手，然后与他告别。

Notwithstanding all the pains he took, d’Artagnan was unable to learn any more concerning his three new-made friends. He formed, therefore, the resolution of believing for the present all that was said of their past, hoping for more certain and extended revelations in the future. In the meanwhile, he looked upon Athos as an Achilles, Porthos as an Ajax, and Aramis as a Joseph.
尽管付出了所有的努力，达达尼昂还是无法对他的三个新朋友有更多的了解。因此，他下定决心，目前相信他们过去所说的一切，希望将来能得到更确定和更广泛的启示。与此同时，他将阿托斯视为阿基里斯，将波托斯视为阿贾克斯，将阿拉米斯视为约瑟夫。

As to the rest, the life of the four young friends was joyous enough. Athos played, and that as a rule unfortunately. Nevertheless, he never borrowed a sou of his companions, although his purse was ever at their service; and when he had played upon honor, he always awakened his creditor by six o’clock the next morning to pay the debt of the preceding evening.
至于其他的，四个小伙伴的生活已经足够幸福了。阿托斯上场了，这通常是不幸的。尽管如此，他从来没有向同伴借过一分钱，尽管他的钱包一直为他们服务。当他以荣誉为赌注时，他总是在第二天早上六点钟之前叫醒债主，以偿还前一天晚上的债务。

Porthos had his fits. On the days when he won he was insolent and ostentatious; if he lost, he disappeared completely for several days, after which he reappeared with a pale face and thinner person, but with money in his purse.
波尔托斯心情不好。在他获胜的日子里，他傲慢无礼、招摇；如果他输了，他就会完全消失几天，然后他再次出现时，脸色苍白，身材瘦弱，但钱包里却有钱。

As to Aramis, he never played. He was the worst Musketeer and the most unconvivial companion imaginable. He had always something or other to do. Sometimes in the midst of dinner, when everyone, under the attraction of wine and in the warmth of conversation, believed they had two or three hours longer to enjoy themselves at table, Aramis looked at his watch, arose with a bland smile, and took leave of the company, to go, as he said, to consult a casuist with whom he had an appointment. At other times he would return home to write a treatise, and requested his friends not to disturb him.
至于阿拉米斯，他从来没有打过球。他是你能想象到的最糟糕的火枪手，也是最不讨喜的同伴。他总是有事可做。有时，晚餐进行到一半时，大家在美酒的诱惑下，在热烈的交谈中，都以为自己还有两三个小时的时间在餐桌上尽情享受，这时阿拉米斯看了看手表，温和地微笑着起身，拿起手中的钥匙。他从公司请了假，按照他的说法，去咨询一位他约好的贤者。有时他会回家写论文，并请求朋友们不要打扰他。

At this Athos would smile, with his charming, melancholy smile, which so became his noble countenance, and Porthos would drink, swearing that Aramis would never be anything but a village CURE.
听到这里，阿托斯会微笑，带着他迷人而忧郁的微笑，这成了他高贵的面容，波托斯会喝酒，发誓阿拉米斯永远只会成为一个乡村治愈者。

Planchet, d’Artagnan’s valet, supported his good fortune nobly. He received thirty sous per day, and for a month he returned to his lodgings gay as a chaffinch, and affable toward his master. When the wind of adversity began to blow upon the housekeeping of the Rue des Fossoyeurs—that is to say, when the forty pistoles of King Louis XIII were consumed or nearly so—he commenced complaints which Athos thought nauseous, Porthos indecent, and Aramis ridiculous. Athos counseled d’Artagnan to dismiss the fellow; Porthos was of opinion that he should give him a good thrashing first; and Aramis contended that a master should never attend to anything but the civilities paid to him.
达达尼昂的贴身男仆普朗谢以高贵的方式支持了他的好运。他每天收到三十苏，一个月的时间里，他回到住处，心情愉快得像苍头燕雀，对主人也很和蔼可亲。当逆境之风开始吹向福索耶尔街的家政服务时——也就是说，当国王路易十三的四十皮斯托尔被消耗殆尽时——他开始抱怨，阿多斯认为令人作呕，波尔托斯认为不雅，阿拉米斯认为可笑。 。阿多斯建议达达尼昂解雇这个家伙。波尔托斯认为应该先狠狠地打他一顿。阿拉米斯认为，主人除了给予他的礼貌之外，永远不应该关心任何事情。

‘This is all very easy for you to say,’ replied d’Artagnan, ‘for you, Athos, who live like a dumb man with Grimaud, who forbid him to speak, and consequently never exchange ill words with him; for you, Porthos, who carry matters in such a magnificent style, and are a god to your valet, Mousqueton; and for you, Aramis, who, always abstracted by your theological studies, inspire your servant, Bazin, a mild, religious man, with a profound respect; but for me, who am without any settled means and without resources—for me, who am neither a Musketeer nor even a Guardsman, what I am to do to inspire either the affection, the terror, or the respect in Planchet?’
“这对你来说很容易说出来，”达达尼昂回答说，“对你来说，阿托斯，你和格里莫一起生活得像个哑巴，格里莫禁止他说话，因此从不与他说坏话；波托斯，你，你处理事情的风格如此宏伟，对你的贴身男仆穆斯克东来说，你就是上帝；还有你，阿拉米斯，你总是专注于你的神学研究，激励你的仆人巴赞，一个温和的宗教人士，怀着深深的敬意；但对于我来说，我没有任何稳定的手段，也没有资源——对于我来说，我既不是火枪手，也不是卫兵，我该怎么做才能激发普兰谢特的喜爱、恐惧或尊重呢？

‘This is serious,’ answered the three friends; ‘it is a family affair. It is with valets as with wives, they must be placed at once upon the footing in which you wish them to remain. Reflect upon it.’
“这很严重，”三个朋友回答道。 ‘这是家庭事务。对于仆人就像对待妻子一样，必须立即将他们安置在你希望他们留在的基础上。反思一下。

D’Artagnan did reflect, and resolved to thrash Planchet provisionally; which he did with the conscientiousness that d’Artagnan carried into everything. After having well beaten him, he forbade him to leave his service without his permission. ‘For,’ added he, ‘the future cannot fail to mend; I inevitably look for better times. Your fortune is therefore made if you remain with me, and I am too good a master to allow you to miss such a chance by granting you the dismissal you require.’
达达尼昂确实反思了，并决定暂时击败普兰谢特。他以达达尼昂对待一切事情的认真态度做到了这一点。把他狠狠地打了一顿后，未经他的允许，他禁止他离职。 “因为，”他补充道，“未来不会不好转；我不可避免地寻找更好的时光。因此，如果你留在我身边，你的财富就会发财，我是一位优秀的主人，不会允许你错过这样的机会，因为你需要解雇你。

This manner of acting roused much respect for d’Artagnan’s policy among the Musketeers. Planchet was equally seized with admiration, and said no more about going away.
这种行事方式引起了火枪手们对达达尼昂政策的尊重。普朗切特同样充满了钦佩，没有再说要走的事。

The life of the four young men had become fraternal. D’Artagnan, who had no settled habits of his own, as he came from his province into the midst of his world quite new to him, fell easily into the habits of his friends.
四个年轻人的生活变得兄弟般。达达尼昂没有自己固定的习惯，因为他从自己的省份来到对他来说很陌生的世界，很容易陷入朋友们的习惯中。

They rose about eight o’clock in the winter, about six in summer, and went to take the countersign and see how things went on at M. de Treville’s. D’Artagnan, although he was not a Musketeer, performed the duty of one with remarkable punctuality. He went on guard because he always kept company with whoever of his friends was on duty. He was well known at the Hotel of the Musketeers, where everyone considered him a good comrade. M. de Treville, who had appreciated him at the first glance and who bore him a real affection, never ceased recommending him to the king.
他们冬天八点左右起床，夏天六点左右起床，去拿口令，看看德特雷维尔先生家的情况如何。达达尼昂虽然不是一名火枪手，但他却非常准时地履行了火枪手的职责。他保持警惕，因为无论谁值班，他总是和他的朋友在一起。他在火枪手旅馆很有名，大家都认为他是好同志。德·特雷维尔先生第一眼就欣赏了他，对他产生了真正的感情，不断向国王推荐他。

On their side, the three Musketeers were much attached to their young comrade. The friendship which united these four men, and the need they felt of seeing another three or four times a day, whether for dueling, business, or pleasure, caused them to be continually running after one another like shadows; and the Inseparables were constantly to be met with seeking one another, from the Luxembourg to the Place St. Sulpice, or from the Rue du Vieux-Colombier to the Luxembourg.
就他们而言，三个火枪手非常依恋他们的年轻战友。将这四个人团结在一起的友谊，以及他们每天需要见到另外三四次的需要，无论是为了决斗、生意还是娱乐，使他们像影子一样不断地追赶着对方。从卢森堡到圣叙尔皮斯广场，或者从旧哥伦比耶街到卢森堡，形影不离的人总是会遇到彼此寻找的情况。

In the meanwhile the promises of M. de Treville went on prosperously. One fine morning the king commanded M. de Chevalier Dessessart to admit d’Artagnan as a cadet in his company of Guards. D’Artagnan, with a sigh, donned his uniform, which he would have exchanged for that of a Musketeer at the expense of ten years of his existence. But M. de Treville promised this favor after a novitiate of two years—a novitiate which might besides be abridged if an opportunity should present itself for d’Artagnan to render the king any signal service, or to distinguish himself by some brilliant action. Upon this promise d’Artagnan withdrew, and the next day he began service.
与此同时，德·特雷维尔先生的承诺继续顺利进行。一个晴朗的早晨，国王命令德塞萨特骑士先生接纳达达尼昂为他的近卫连的学员。达达尼昂叹了口气，穿上了他的制服，他愿意用十年的生命来换取火枪手的制服。但德·特雷维尔先生在两年见习期后答应了这一恩惠——如果达达尼昂有机会为国王提供任何重要的服务，或者通过一些出色的行动来脱颖而出，那么这个见习期可能会被缩短。达达尼昂答应这一承诺后就退出了，第二天他就开始服役。

Then it became the turn of Athos, Porthos, and Aramis to mount guard with d’Artagnan when he was on duty. The company of M. le Chevalier Dessessart thus received four instead of one when it admitted d’Artagnan.
然后轮到阿托斯、波尔托斯和阿拉米斯在达达尼昂值班时与他一起站岗。因此，德塞萨特骑士先生的公司在接纳达达尼昂时收到了四名而不是一名。

8 CONCERNING A COURT INTRIGUE
8 关于宫廷阴谋

In the meantime, the forty pistoles of King Louis XIII, like all other things of this world, after having had a beginning had an end, and after this end our four companions began to be somewhat embarrassed. At first, Athos supported the association for a time with his own means.
与此同时，路易十三国王的四十皮斯托尔，就像这个世界上的所有其他事物一样，有开始就有结束，而在这个结束之后，我们的四个同伴开始有些尴尬。起初，阿托斯以自己的方式支持了协会一段时间。

Porthos succeeded him; and thanks to one of those disappearances to which he was accustomed, he was able to provide for the wants of all for a fortnight. At last it became Aramis’s turn, who performed it with a good grace and who succeeded—as he said, by selling some theological books—in procuring a few pistoles.
波尔托斯接替了他。由于他已经习惯了其中一次失踪，他能够满足所有人两周的需要。最后轮到阿拉米斯了，他优雅地完成了这件事，并成功地——正如他所说，通过出售一些神学书籍——获得了一些皮斯托尔。

Then, as they had been accustomed to do, they had recourse to M. de Treville, who made some advances on their pay; but these advances could not go far with three Musketeers who were already much in arrears and a Guardsman who as yet had no pay at all.
然后，正如他们惯常做的那样，他们求助于德·特雷维尔先生，他预支了他们的工资。但对于三名已经拖欠大量工资的火枪手和一名还没有拿到工资的卫兵来说，这些预付款并不能走多远。

At length when they found they were likely to be really in want, they got together, as a last effort, eight or ten pistoles, with which Porthos went to the gaming table. Unfortunately he was in a bad vein; he lost all, together with twenty-five pistoles for which he had given his word.
最后，当他们发现自己可能真的很穷时，作为最后的努力，他们凑到了八个或十个皮斯托，波尔托斯带着这些走到了赌桌前。不幸的是，他的脾气不太好。他失去了一切，连同他所承诺的二十五皮斯托尔。

Then the inconvenience became distress. The hungry friends, followed by their lackeys, were seen haunting the quays and Guard rooms, picking up among their friends abroad all the dinners they could meet with; for according to the advice of Aramis, it was prudent to sow repasts right and left in prosperity, in order to reap a few in time of need.
然后，不便变成了痛苦。人们看到饥饿的朋友们在他们的走狗的跟随下，在码头和警卫室里出没，从国外的朋友那里捡起他们能遇到的所有晚餐；因为根据阿拉米斯的建议，明智的做法是在繁荣时左右播种食物，以便在需要时收获一些。

Athos was invited four times, and each time took his friends and their lackeys with him. Porthos had six occasions, and contrived in the same manner that his friends should partake of them; Aramis had eight of them. He was a man, as must have been already perceived, who made but little noise, and yet was much sought after.
阿多斯四次受邀，每次都带着他的朋友和他们的走狗。波尔托斯有六次机会，并以同样的方式让他的朋友们参加。阿拉米斯有八个。大家一定已经意识到，他是一个很少发出声音的人，但却很受追捧。

As to d’Artagnan, who as yet knew nobody in the capital, he only found one chocolate breakfast at the house of a priest of his own province, and one dinner at the house of a cornet of the Guards. He took his army to the priest’s, where they devoured as much provision as would have lasted him for two months, and to the cornet’s, who performed wonders; but as Planchet said, ‘People do not eat at once for all time, even when they eat a good deal.’
至于达达尼昂，他在首都还不认识任何人，他只在自己省份的一位牧师家里找到了一顿巧克力早餐，在近卫军短号家里找到了一顿晚餐。他率领军队前往牧师那里，在那里他们吃掉了足够他维持两个月的食物；他还前往短号那里，他们创造了奇迹。但正如普朗切特所说，“人们不会一直一次性吃东西，即使他们吃了很多东西。”

D’Artagnan thus felt himself humiliated in having only procured one meal and a half for his companions—as the breakfast at the priest’s could only be counted as half a repast—in return for the feasts which Athos, Porthos, and Aramis had procured him. He fancied himself a burden to the society, forgetting in his perfectly juvenile good faith that he had fed this society for a month; and he set his mind actively to work. He reflected that this coalition of four young, brave, enterprising, and active men ought to have some other object than swaggering walks, fencing lessons, and practical jokes, more or less witty.
因此，达达尼昂感到自己受到了羞辱，因为他只为他的同伴准备了一顿半饭——因为牧师的早餐只能算作半份正餐——以换取阿托斯、波托斯和阿拉米斯为他准备的盛宴。 。他认为自己是社会的负担，完全忘记了他已经为这个社会提供了一个月的食物；他积极地投入到工作中。他认为，这个由四个年轻、勇敢、进取、积极的人组成的联盟应该有其他的目标，而不是大摇大摆地散步、上击剑课和或多或少诙谐的恶作剧。

In fact, four men such as they were—four men devoted to one another, from their purses to their lives; four men always supporting one another, never yielding, executing singly or together the resolutions formed in common; four arms threatening the four cardinal points, or turning toward a single point—must inevitably, either subterraneously, in open day, by mining, in the trench, by cunning, or by force, open themselves a way toward the object they wished to attain, however well it might be defended, or however distant it may seem. The only thing that astonished d’Artagnan was that his friends had never thought of this.
事实上，这四个人就是他们这样的人——四个人彼此忠诚，从他们的钱包到他们的生活；他们都是彼此忠诚的人。四个人始终互相支持，永不屈服，单独或共同执行共同制定的决议；四只手臂威胁着四个基点，或者转向一个点——必须不可避免地，或者在地下，在露天，通过采矿，在战壕里，通过狡猾，或者通过武力，为自己打开一条通向他们希望达到的目标的道路。 ，无论它被保护得多么好，或者无论它看起来多么遥远。唯一让达达尼昂感到惊讶的是，他的朋友们从来没有想到过这一点。

He was thinking by himself, and even seriously racking his brain to find a direction for this single force four times multiplied, with which he did not doubt, as with the lever for which Archimedes sought, they should succeed in moving the world, when someone tapped gently at his door. D’Artagnan awakened Planchet and ordered him to open it.
他在自己思考，甚至​​认真地绞尽脑汁为这个四倍的单一力寻找方向，他毫不怀疑，就像阿基米德寻找的杠杆一样，他们应该成功地推动世界，当有人轻轻地敲了敲他的门。达达尼昂唤醒了普兰谢特并命令他打开它。

From this phrase, ‘d’Artagnan awakened Planchet,’ the reader must not suppose it was night, or that day was hardly come. No, it had just struck four. Planchet, two hours before, had asked his master for some dinner, and he had answered him with the proverb, ‘He who sleeps, dines.’ And Planchet dined by sleeping.
从“达达尼昂唤醒了普朗谢特”这句话中，读者不能认为现在是晚上，或者那天还没有到来。不，刚刚四点钟。两个小时前，普朗切特请他的主人吃晚饭，他用一句谚语回答了他：“睡觉的人吃饭。”普朗切特边睡觉边吃晚饭。

A man was introduced of simple mien, who had the appearance of a tradesman. Planchet, by way of dessert, would have liked to hear the conversation; but the citizen declared to d’Artagnan that what he had to say being important and confidential, he desired to be left alone with him.
介绍来了一个人，他相貌朴素，一看就是个商人。作为甜点，普兰切特很想听听这次谈话。但这位公民向达达尼昂宣称，他所说的话既重要又保密，他希望与他独处。

D’Artagnan dismissed Planchet, and requested his visitor to be seated. There was a moment of silence, during which the two men looked at each other, as if to make a preliminary acquaintance, after which d’Artagnan bowed, as a sign that he listened.
达达尼昂打发走了普朗谢，并请他的客人入座。沉默了一会儿，两人互相看了一眼，仿佛要初步熟悉一下，然后达达尼昂鞠了个躬，表示他在听。

‘I have heard Monsieur d’Artagnan spoken of as a very brave young man,’ said the citizen; ‘and this reputation which he justly enjoys had decided me to confide a secret to him.’
“我听说达达尼昂先生是一位非常勇敢的年轻人，”这位公民说道。 “他所享有的声誉决定我向他吐露一个秘密。”

‘Speak, monsieur, speak,’ said d’Artagnan, who instinctively scented something advantageous.
“说吧，先生，说吧，”达达尼昂说道，他本能地嗅到了某种有利的气味。

The citizen made a fresh pause and continued, ‘I have a wife who is seamstress to the queen, monsieur, and who is not deficient in either virtue or beauty. I was induced to marry her about three years ago, although she had but very little dowry, because Monsieur Laporte, the queen’s cloak bearer, is her godfather, and befriends her.’
市民顿了顿，接着说道：“先生，我有一位妻子，是王后的裁缝，德才兼备，美貌不缺。大约三年前，我被诱娶了她，尽管她只有很少的嫁妆，因为女王的斗篷持有者拉波尔特先生是她的教父，并且与她成为朋友。

‘Well, monsieur?’ asked d’Artagnan.
“怎么样，先生？”达达尼昂问道。

‘Well!’ resumed the citizen, ‘well, monsieur, my wife was abducted yesterday morning, as she was coming out of her workroom.’
“好吧！”公民继续说道，“好吧，先生，我的妻子昨天早上从工作室出来时被绑架了。”

‘And by whom was your wife abducted?’
“你的妻子是被谁绑架的？”

‘I know nothing surely, monsieur, but I suspect someone.’
“我确实什么都不知道，先生，但我怀疑有人。”

‘And who is the person whom you suspect?’
“你怀疑的人是谁？”

‘A man who has pursued her a long time.’
“一个追求她很久的男人。”

‘The devil!’
'恶魔！'

‘But allow me to tell you, monsieur,’ continued the citizen, ‘that I am convinced that there is less love than politics in all this.’
“但是，请允许我告诉您，先生，”这位公民继续说道，“我相信，在这一切中，政治比爱情更重要。”

‘Less love than politics,’ replied d’Artagnan, with a reflective air; ‘and what do you suspect?’
“与其说是爱情，不如说是政治。”达达尼昂带着沉思的神情回答道。 “你怀疑什么？”

‘I do not know whether I ought to tell you what I suspect.’
“我不知道是否应该告诉你我的怀疑。”

‘Monsieur, I beg you to observe that I ask you absolutely nothing. It is you who have come to me. It is you who have told me that you had a secret to confide in me. Act, then, as you think proper; there is still time to withdraw.’
“先生，我请求您注意，我绝对没有问您什么。是你来找我的。是你告诉我你有一个秘密要向我倾诉。那么，按照你认为正确的方式去做吧；还有时间撤退。

‘No, monsieur, no; you appear to be an honest young man, and I will have confidence in you. I believe, then, that it is not on account of any intrigues of her own that my wife has been arrested, but because of those of a lady much greater than herself.’
“不，先生，不；”你看起来是个诚实的年轻人，我对你有信心。那么，我相信，我妻子被捕并不是因为她自己的阴谋，而是因为一位比她伟大得多的女士的阴谋。

‘Ah, ah! Can it be on account of the amours of Madame de Bois-Tracy?’ said d’Artagnan, wishing to have the air, in the eyes of the citizen, of being posted as to court affairs.
'啊啊！难道是因为布瓦-特雷西夫人的风流韵事吗？”达达尼昂问道，他希望在公民眼中，有一种被派去处理宫廷事务的气氛。

‘Higher, monsieur, higher.’
“更高，先生，更高。”

‘Of Madame d’Aiguillon?’
“艾吉永夫人的？”

‘Still higher.’
“还更高。”

‘Of Madame de Chevreuse?’
“谢夫勒斯夫人的？”

‘Of the—‘ d’Artagnan checked himself.
“关于——”达达尼昂克制住自己。

‘Yes, monsieur,’ replied the terrified citizen, in a tone so low that he was scarcely audible.
“是的，先生。”这位惊慌失措的公民回答道，声音低得几乎听不见。

‘And with whom?’
“和谁一起呢？”

‘With whom can it be, if not the Duke of—‘
“如果不是公爵的话，还能是谁——”

‘The Duke of—‘
“公爵——”

‘Yes, monsieur,’ replied the citizen, giving a still fainter intonation to his voice.
“是的，先生。”公民回答道，语调更加微弱。

‘But how do you know all this?’
“但是你怎么知道这一切呢？”

‘How do I know it?’
“我怎么知道的？”

‘Yes, how do you know it? No half-confidence, or—you understand!’
‘是啊，你怎么知道的？不要半信半疑，或者——你明白！”

‘I know it from my wife, monsieur—from my wife herself.’
“先生，我是从我妻子那里知道的——从我妻子本人那里知道的。”

‘Who learns it from whom?’
“谁跟谁学的？”

‘From Monsieur Laporte. Did I not tell you that she was the goddaughter of Monsieur Laporte, the confidential man of the queen? Well, Monsieur Laporte placed her near her Majesty in order that our poor queen might at least have someone in whom she could place confidence, abandoned as she is by the king, watched as she is by the cardinal, betrayed as she is by everybody.’
“来自拉波尔特先生。我不是告诉过你她是王后的心腹拉波尔特先生的教女吗？好吧，拉波特先生把她安置在女王陛下附近，以便我们可怜的女王至少可以有一个可以信任的人，尽管她被国王抛弃，被红衣主教监视，被所有人背叛。 '

‘Ah, ah! It begins to develop itself,’ said d’Artagnan.
'啊啊！它开始自我发展，”达达尼昂说。

‘Now, my wife came home four days ago, monsieur. One of her conditions was that she should come and see me twice a week; for, as I had the honor to tell you, my wife loves me dearly—my wife, then, came and confided to me that the queen at that very moment entertained great fears.’
“现在，我的妻子四天前回家了，先生。她的条件之一是每周来看我两次；因为，正如我有幸告诉你的那样，我的妻子非常爱我——然后，我的妻子过来向我吐露，女王在那一刻感到非常恐惧。

‘Truly!’
“真的！”

‘Yes. The cardinal, as it appears, pursues he and persecutes her more than ever. He cannot pardon her the history of the Saraband. You know the history of the Saraband?’
'是的。看来，红衣主教对他的追求和迫害比以往任何时候都更加强烈。他无法原谅她萨拉班德的历史。你知道萨拉班德的历史吗？

‘PARDIEU! Know it!’ replied d’Artagnan, who knew nothing about it, but who wished to appear to know everything that was going on.
‘帕迪厄！知道了！”达达尼昂回答道，他对此一无所知，但他希望表现出知道所发生的一切。

‘So that now it is no longer hatred, but vengeance.’
“所以现在不再是仇恨，而是复仇。”

‘Indeed!’
'的确！'

‘And the queen believes—‘
“女王相信——”

‘Well, what does the queen believe?’
“那么，女王相信什么？”

‘She believes that someone has written to the Duke of Buckingham in her name.’
“她相信有人以她的名义写信给白金汉公爵。”

‘In the queen’s name?’
“以女王的名义？”

‘Yes, to make him come to Paris; and when once come to Paris, to draw him into some snare.’
“是的，让他来巴黎；一旦来到巴黎，就将他引入陷阱。

‘The devil! But your wife, monsieur, what has she to do with all this?’
'恶魔！但是您的妻子，先生，她与这一切有什么关系呢？

‘Her devotion to the queen is known; and they wish either to remove her from her mistress, or to intimidate her, in order to obtain her Majesty’s secrets, or to seduce her and make use of her as a spy.’
“她对女王的忠诚是众所周知的；他们要么想把她从她的情妇身边夺走，要么恐吓她，以获取女王陛下的秘密，要么引诱她，利用她作为间谍。

‘That is likely,’ said d’Artagnan; ‘but the man who has abducted her—do you know him?’
“这很可能，”达达尼昂说。 “但是绑架她的那个人——你认识他吗？”

‘I have told you that I believe I know him.’
“我已经告诉过你，我相信我认识他。”

‘His name?’
'他的名字？'

‘I do not know that; what I do know is that he is a creature of the cardinal, his evil genius.’
'我不知道那个;我所知道的是，他是红衣主教的产物，他的邪恶天才。

‘But you have seen him?’
“但是你见过他吗？”

‘Yes, my wife pointed him out to me one day.’
“是的，有一天我妻子把他指给我看。”

‘Has he anything remarkable about him by which one may recognize him?’
“他身上有什么值得注意的地方，可以让人认出他来吗？”

‘Oh, certainly; he is a noble of very lofty carriage, black hair, swarthy complexion, piercing eye, white teeth, and has a scar on his temple.’
‘哦，当然；他是一位贵族，气质很高，黑发，肤色黝黑，目光锐利，牙齿洁白，太阳穴上有一道伤疤。

‘A scar on his temple!’ cried d’Artagnan; ‘and with that, white teeth, a piercing eye, dark complexion, black hair, and haughty carriage—why, that’s my man of Meung.’
“他的太阳穴上有一道伤疤！”达达尼昂喊道。 “还有洁白的牙齿、锐利的眼睛、黝黑的肤色、黑色的头发和傲慢的举止——这就是我的默恩男人。”

‘He is your man, do you say?’
“你说他是你的男人，是吗？”

‘Yes, yes; but that has nothing to do with it. No, I am wrong. On the contrary, that simplifies the matter greatly. If your man is mine, with one blow I shall obtain two revenges, that’s all; but where to find this man?’
'是的是的;但这与此无关。不，我错了。相反，这大大简化了问题。如果你的男人是我的，我一击二仇，仅此而已；但到哪里去找这个人呢？

‘I know not.’
'我不知道。'

‘Have you no information as to his abiding place?’
“你不知道他的住处吗？”

‘None. One day, as I was conveying my wife back to the Louvre, he was coming out as she was going in, and she showed him to me.’
'没有任何。有一天，当我送妻子回卢浮宫时，她进去时他也出来了，她把他带给了我看。

‘The devil! The devil!’ murmured d’Artagnan; ‘all this is vague enough. From whom have you learned of the abduction of your wife?’
'恶魔！见鬼了！”达达尼昂低声说道。 ‘这一切都够模糊的了。你从谁那里得知你妻子被绑架的消息？

‘From Monsieur Laporte.’
“拉波尔特先生寄来的。”

‘Did he give you any details?’
“他给了你任何细节吗？”

‘He knew none himself.’
“他自己什么也不知道。”

‘And you have learned nothing from any other quarter?’
“你从其他地方什么也没学到吗？”

‘Yes, I have received—‘
“是的，我已经收到——”

‘What?’
'什么？'

‘I fear I am committing a great imprudence.’
“我担心我过于轻率了。”

‘You always come back to that; but I must make you see this time that it is too late to retreat.’
‘你总是会回到那个；但这次我必须让你明白，撤退已经太晚了。”

‘I do not retreat, MORDIEU!’ cried the citizen, swearing in order to rouse his courage. ‘Besides, by the faith of Bonacieux—‘
“我不会撤退，莫迪厄！”公民喊道，咒骂着以鼓起勇气。 “此外，以博纳希厄的信念——”

‘You call yourself Bonacieux?’ interrupted d’Artagnan.
“你自称博纳希厄？”达达尼昂打断道。

‘Yes, that is my name.’
“是的，那是我的名字。”

‘You said, then, by the word of Bonacieux. Pardon me for interrupting you, but it appears to me that that name is familiar to me.’
“那么，你是根据博纳希厄的话说的。请原谅我打扰你，但我觉得这个名字对我来说很熟悉。

‘Possibly, monsieur. I am your landlord.’
“有可能，先生。我是你的房东。

‘Ah, ah!’ said d’Artagnan, half rising and bowing; ‘you are my landlord?’
“啊，啊！”达达尼昂说，半站起来，鞠了一躬。 “你是我的房东？”

‘Yes, monsieur, yes. And as it is three months since you have been here, and though, distracted as you must be in your important occupations, you have forgotten to pay me my rent—as, I say, I have not tormented you a single instant, I thought you would appreciate my delicacy.’
“是的，先生，是的。自从你来到这里已经三个月了，尽管你一定在忙于你的重要工作而心烦意乱，你却忘记了付我的房租——因为，我说，我没有一刻折磨过你，我想你会欣赏我的美味。

‘How can it be otherwise, my dear Bonacieux?’ replied d’Artagnan; ‘trust me, I am fully grateful for such unparalleled conduct, and if, as I told you, I can be of any service to you—‘
“不然怎么可能呢，我亲爱的博纳希厄？”达达尼昂回答道。 “相信我，我对这种无与伦比的行为非常感激，如果像我告诉你的那样，我能为你提供任何服务——”

‘I believe you, monsieur, I believe you; and as I was about to say, by the word of Bonacieux, I have confidence in you.’
“我相信你，先生，我相信你；正如我正要说的，以博纳希厄的话来说，我对你有信心。

‘Finish, then, what you were about to say.’
“那么，把你要说的话说完吧。”

The citizen took a paper from his pocket, and presented it to d’Artagnan.
市民从口袋里掏出一张纸，递给达达尼昂。

‘A letter?’ said the young man.
“一封信？”年轻人问道。

‘Which I received this morning.’
“我今天早上收到的。”

D’Artagnan opened it, and as the day was beginning to decline, he approached the window to read it. The citizen followed him.
达达尼昂打开了它，天色开始暗下来，他走近窗户阅读。公民跟着他。

‘‘Do not seek your wife,’’ read d’Artagnan; ‘‘she will be restored to you when there is no longer occasion for her. If you make a single step to find her you are lost.’
“不要寻找你的妻子，”达达尼昂念道。 “当不再需要她的时候，她就会回到你身边。”如果你迈出一步去找她，你就迷路了。”

‘That’s pretty positive,’ continued d’Artagnan; ‘but after all, it is but a menace.’
“这是非常积极的，”达达尼昂继续说道。 “但毕竟，这只是一种威胁。”

‘Yes; but that menace terrifies me. I am not a fighting man at all, monsieur, and I am afraid of the Bastille.’
'是的;但那种威胁让我害怕。我根本不是一个战士，先生，我害怕巴士底狱。

‘Hum!’ said d’Artagnan. ‘I have no greater regard for the Bastille than you. If it were nothing but a sword thrust, why then—‘
“哼！”达达尼昂说。 “我对巴士底狱的尊重并不比你大。如果只是一剑刺入，那为什么——”

‘I have counted upon you on this occasion, monsieur.’
“这次我就指望你了，先生。”

‘Yes?’
'是的？'

‘Seeing you constantly surrounded by Musketeers of a very superb appearance, and knowing that these Musketeers belong to Monsieur de Treville, and were consequently enemies of the cardinal, I thought that you and your friends, while rendering justice to your poor queen, would be pleased to play his Eminence an ill turn.’
“看到你不断地被外表非常漂亮的火枪手包围，并且知道这些火枪手属于德特雷维尔先生，因此是红衣主教的敌人，我认为你和你的朋友在为你可怜的王后伸张正义的同时，会很高兴对大人造成不好的影响。”

‘Without doubt.’
'毫无疑问。'

‘And then I have thought that considering three months’ lodging, about which I have said nothing—‘
“然后我想，考虑到三个月的住宿，我对此什么也没说——”

‘Yes, yes; you have already given me that reason, and I find it excellent.’
'是的是的;你已经给了我这个理由，我觉得这很好。”

‘Reckoning still further, that as long as you do me the honor to remain in my house I shall never speak to you about rent—‘
“进一步考虑，只要你让我有幸留在我的房子里，我就永远不会和你谈论租金——”

‘Very kind!’
“非常友善！”

‘And adding to this, if there be need of it, meaning to offer you fifty pistoles, if, against all probability, you should be short at the present moment.’
“除此之外，如果有需要的话，我愿意给你五十皮斯托尔，如果万一你现在缺钱的话。”

‘Admirable! You are rich then, my dear Monsieur Bonacieux?’
‘令人钦佩！那么你很有钱吗，亲爱的博纳西厄先生？

‘I am comfortably off, monsieur, that’s all; I have scraped together some such thing as an income of two or three thousand crown in the haberdashery business, but more particularly in venturing some funds in the last voyage of the celebrated navigator Jean Moquet; so that you understand, monsieur—But’ cried the citizen.
“我过得很舒服，先生，仅此而已。”我在服饰生意上凑了两三千克朗的收入，但更特别的是，我在著名航海家让·莫凯的最后一次航行中冒险投入了一些资金。以便您理解，先生——但是，”公民喊道。

‘What!’ demanded d’Artagnan.
“什么！”达达尼昂问道。

‘Whom do I see yonder?’
“我在那边看到谁了？”

‘Where?’
'在哪里？'

‘In the street, facing your window, in the embrasure of that door—a man wrapped in a cloak.’
“在街上，面向你的窗户，在那扇门的射孔里——一个裹着斗篷的男人。”

‘It is he!’ cried d’Artagnan and the citizen at the same time, each having recognized his man.
“是他！”达达尼昂和公民同时喊道，他们都认出了自己的人。

‘Ah, this time,’ cried d’Artagnan, springing to his sword, ‘this time he will not escape me!’
“啊，这一次，”达达尼昂跳到剑前喊道，“这一次他不会再从我手中逃脱了！”

Drawing his sword from its scabbard, he rushed out of the apartment. On the staircase he met Athos and Porthos, who were coming to see him. They separated, and d’Artagnan rushed between them like a dart.
他拔剑出鞘，冲出公寓。在楼梯上，他遇到了阿托斯和波托斯，他们正来看他。他们分开了，达达尼昂像一支飞镖一样冲到了他们中间。

‘Pah! Where are you going?’ cried the two Musketeers in a breath.
‘呸！ “你们要去哪儿？”两个火枪手齐声喊道。

‘The man of Meung!’ replied d’Artagnan, and disappeared.
“默恩人！”达达尼昂回答道，然后就消失了。

D’Artagnan had more than once related to his friends his adventure with the stranger, as well as the apparition of the beautiful foreigner, to whom this man had confided some important missive.
达达尼昂不止一次地向他的朋友讲述了他与陌生人的冒险经历，以及那个美丽的外国人的幽灵，这个人向他透露了一些重要的信件。

The opinion of Athos was that d’Artagnan had lost his letter in the skirmish. A gentleman, in his opinion—and according to d’Artagnan’s portrait of him, the stranger must be a gentleman— would be incapable of the baseness of stealing a letter.
阿托斯认为达达尼昂在冲突中丢失了他的信。在他看来，一位绅士——根据达达尼昂对他的描述，陌生人一定是一位绅士——不会做出偷信的卑鄙行为。

Porthos saw nothing in all this but a love meeting, given by a lady to a cavalier, or by a cavalier to a lady, which had been disturbed by the presence of d’Artagnan and his yellow horse.
波托斯在这一切中只看到了一次爱情的邂逅，由一位女士与一位骑士，或由一位骑士与一位女士进行，但达达尼昂和他的黄马的出现扰乱了这次会面。

Aramis said that as these sorts of affairs were mysterious, it was better not to fathom them.
阿拉米斯说，这类事情很神秘，最好不要去探究。

They understood, then, from the few words which escaped from d’Artagnan, what affair was in hand, and as they thought that overtaking his man, or losing sight of him, d’Artagnan would return to his rooms, they kept on their way.
然后，他们从达达尼昂脱口而出的几句话中明白了正在发生什么事情，当他们认为追上他的人，或者失去他的视线时，达达尼昂会回到他的房间，他们继续他们的方式。

When they entered d’Artagnan’s chamber, it was empty; the landlord, dreading the consequences of the encounter which was doubtless about to take place between the young man and the stranger, had, consistent with the character he had given himself, judged it prudent to decamp.
当他们进入达达尼昂的房间时，里面空无一人。房东担心年轻人和陌生人之间无疑即将发生的相遇所带来的后果，根据他自己的性格，判断逃跑是明智的。

9 D’ARTAGNAN SHOWS HIMSELF
9 达达尼昂展现自我

As Athos and Porthos had foreseen, at the expiration of a half hour, d’Artagnan returned. He had again missed his man, who had disappeared as if by enchantment. D’Artagnan had run, sword in hand, through all the neighboring streets, but had found nobody resembling the man he sought for. Then he came back to the point where, perhaps, he ought to have begun, and that was to knock at the door against which the stranger had leaned; but this proved useless—for though he knocked ten or twelve times in succession, no one answered, and some of the neighbors, who put their noses out of their windows or were brought to their doors by the noise, had assured him that that house, all the openings of which were tightly closed, had not been inhabited for six months.
正如阿托斯和波尔托斯所预见的，半个小时后，达达尼昂回来了。他又想念他的男人了，他却像施了魔法一样消失了。达达尼昂手持剑跑遍了附近所有的街道，但没有发现任何人与他要找的人相似。然后他又回到了也许他应该开始的地方，那就是敲陌生人倚靠的那扇门。但这被证明是无用的——因为尽管他连续敲了十次或十二次，但没有人应声，一些邻居把鼻子伸出窗外，或者被噪音带到门口，向他保证那所房子所有的开口都紧闭，已经六个月没有人居住了。

While d’Artagnan was running through the streets and knocking at doors, Aramis had joined his companions; so that on returning home d’Artagnan found the reunion complete.
当达达尼昂跑过街道敲门时，阿拉米斯也加入了他的同伴行列。因此，达达尼昂回到家后，发现团聚已经完成。

‘Well!’ cried the three Musketeers all together, on seeing d’Artagnan enter with his brow covered with perspiration and his countenance upset with anger.
“好啦！”三个火枪手看到达达尼昂走进来，额头上全是汗，满脸怒容，他们齐声喊道。

‘Well!’ cried he, throwing his sword upon the bed, ‘this man must be the devil in person; he has disappeared like a phantom, like a shade, like a specter.’
“好吧！”他一边叫道，一边把剑扔到床上，“这个人一定是魔鬼本人；他像幽灵一样消失了，像影子一样，像幽灵一样。

‘Do you believe in apparitions?’ asked Athos of Porthos.
“你相信幻影吗？”波尔托斯的阿托斯问道。

‘I never believe in anything I have not seen, and as I never have seen apparitions, I don’t believe in them.’
“我从不相信任何我没见过的东西，就像我从未见过幻影一样，我也不相信它们。”

‘The Bible,’ said Aramis, ‘make our belief in them a law; the ghost of Samuel appeared to Saul, and it is an article of faith that I should be very sorry to see any doubt thrown upon, Porthos.’
“圣经，”阿拉米斯说，“使我们对它们的信仰成为法律；撒母耳的鬼魂出现在扫罗面前，这是一条信仰，如果有人对此产生怀疑，我会感到非常遗憾，波托斯。

‘At all events, man or devil, body or shadow, illusion or reality, this man is born for my damnation; for his flight has caused us to miss a glorious affair, gentlemen—an affair by which there were a hundred pistoles, and perhaps more, to be gained.’
“无论如何，无论是人还是魔鬼、身体还是影子、幻觉还是现实，这个人都是为了我的诅咒而生的；因为他的逃跑使我们错过了一件光荣的事情，先生们——通过这件事情，我们可以获得一百皮斯托，甚至更多。”

‘How is that?’ cried Porthos and Aramis in a breath.
“怎么样？”波托斯和阿拉米斯异口同声地喊道。

As to Athos, faithful to his system of reticence, he contented himself with interrogating d’Artagnan by a look.
至于阿托斯，他忠于自己的沉默寡言，他满足于用眼神审问达达尼昂。

‘Planchet,’ said d’Artagnan to his domestic, who just then insinuated his head through the half-open door in order to catch some fragments of the conversation, ‘go down to my landlord, Monsieur Bonacieux, and ask him to send me half a dozen bottles of Beaugency wine; I prefer that.’
“普兰谢特，”达达尼昂对他的仆人说，他当时正把头伸进半开的门，以便捕捉谈话的一些片段，“到我的房东博纳希厄先生那里去，请他派我来。”六瓶博让西葡萄酒；我更喜欢这样。

‘Ah, ah! You have credit with your landlord, then?’ asked Porthos.
'啊啊！那么，你的房东对你有信用吗？”波托斯问。

‘Yes,’ replied d’Artagnan, ‘from this very day; and mind, if the wine is bad, we will send him to find better.’
“是的，”达达尼昂回答说，“从今天起；请注意，如果酒不好，我们会派他去寻找更好的酒。

‘We must use, and not abuse,’ said Aramis, sententiously.
“我们必须使用，而不是滥用，”阿拉米斯简洁地说。

‘I always said that d’Artagnan had the longest head of the four,’ said Athos, who, having uttered his opinion, to which d’Artagnan replied with a bow, immediately resumed his accustomed silence.
“我总是说，达达尼昂的头是四个人中最长的。”阿托斯说道。阿托斯说出了自己的看法，达达尼昂鞠了一躬，随即又恢复了他惯常的沉默。

‘But come, what is this about?’ asked Porthos.
“但是，请问这是怎么回事？”波托斯问道。

‘Yes,’ said Aramis, ‘impart it to us, my dear friend, unless the honor of any lady be hazarded by this confidence; in that case you would do better to keep it to yourself.’
“是的，”阿拉米斯说，“请把它交给我们，我亲爱的朋友，除非任何一位女士的荣誉因这种信任而受到威胁；在这种情况下，你最好还是保守秘密。”

‘Be satisfied,’ replied d’Artagnan; ‘the honor of no one will have cause to complain of what I have to tell.’
“满意吧，”达达尼昂回答道。 “没有人有理由抱怨我所要讲述的事情。”

He then related to his friends, word for word, all that had passed between him and his host, and how the man who had abducted the wife of his worthy landlord was the same with whom he had had the difference at the hostelry of the Jolly Miller.
然后，他向朋友们一字不差地讲述了他和主人之间发生的一切，以及绑架了他可敬的房东妻子的那个人，与他在乔利旅馆里所遇到的不同的人是同一个人。磨坊主。

‘Your affair is not bad,’ said Athos, after having tasted like a connoisseur and indicated by a nod of his head that he thought the wine good; ‘and one may draw fifty or sixty pistoles from this good man. Then there only remains to ascertain whether these fifty or sixty pistoles are worth the risk of four heads.’
“你的生意还不错。”阿托斯像鉴赏家一样品尝了酒，并点点头表示他认为这酒不错，然后说道。 “人们可以从这位好人那里提取五十或六十皮斯托尔。”然后剩下的就是确定这五十或六十皮斯托是否值得冒四个人头的风险。

‘But observe,’ cried d’Artagnan, ‘that there is a woman in the affair—a woman carried off, a woman who is doubtless threatened, tortured perhaps, and all because she is faithful to her mistress.’
“但是请注意，”达达尼昂喊道，“这件事中有一个女人——一个被带走的女人，一个无疑受到威胁的女人，也许还受到酷刑，而这一切都是因为她对她的情妇忠诚。”

‘Beware, d’Artagnan, beware,’ said Aramis. ‘You grow a little too warm, in my opinion, about the fate of Madame Bonacieux. Woman was created for our destruction, and it is from her we inherit all our miseries.’
“小心，达达尼昂，小心，”阿拉米斯说。 “在我看来，你对博纳瑟夫人的命运有点过于热情了。女人是为了毁灭我们而创造的，我们从她那里继承了所有的痛苦。”

At this speech of Aramis, the brow of Athos became clouded and he bit his lips.
听到阿拉米斯的这番话，阿托斯的眉头一皱，咬住了嘴唇。

‘It is not Madame Bonacieux about whom I am anxious,’ cried d’Artagnan, ‘but the queen, whom the king abandons, whom the cardinal persecutes, and who sees the heads of all her friends fall, one after the other.’
“我担心的不是博纳瑟夫人，”达达尼昂喊道，“而是王后，她被国王抛弃，被红衣主教迫害，她眼睁睁地看着她所有朋友的头一个接一个地倒下。”

‘Why does she love what we hate most in the world, the Spaniards and the English?’
“为什么她喜欢我们世界上最讨厌的西班牙人和英国人？”

‘Spain is her country,’ replied d’Artagnan; ‘and it is very natural that she should love the Spanish, who are the children of the same soil as herself. As to the second reproach, I have heard it said that she does not love the English, but an Englishman.’
“西班牙是她的国家，”达达尼昂回答道。 “她爱西班牙人是很自然的，因为他们是和她出生在同一块土地上的孩子。”至于第二个指责，我听说她不爱英国人，而是一个英国人。

‘Well, and by my faith,’ said Athos, ‘it must be acknowledged that this Englishman is worthy of being loved. I never saw a man with a nobler air than his.’
“好吧，凭我的信心，”阿多斯说，“必须承认这个英国人值得被爱。我从未见过比他更有高贵气质的人。

‘Without reckoning that he dresses as nobody else can,’ said Porthos. ‘I was at the Louvre on the day when he scattered his pearls; and, PARDIEU, I picked up two that I sold for ten pistoles each. Do you know him, Aramis?’
“没想到他的穿着是别人无法比拟的，”波尔托斯说。 “他撒珍珠的那天我在卢浮宫；帕迪厄，我买了两件，每件卖了十皮斯托尔。你认识他吗，阿拉米斯？

‘As well as you do, gentlemen; for I was among those who seized him in the garden at Amiens, into which Monsieur Putange, the queen’s equerry, introduced me. I was at school at the time, and the adventure appeared to me to be cruel for the king.’
“先生们，和你们一样；因为我是在亚眠花园里抓获他的人之一，是王后的侍从普坦格先生介绍我进去的。当时我正在上学，在我看来，这次冒险对国王来说是残酷的。

‘Which would not prevent me,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘if I knew where the Duke of Buckingham was, from taking him by the hand and conducting him to the queen, were it only to enrage the cardinal, and if we could find means to play him a sharp turn, I vow that I would voluntarily risk my head in doing it.’
“这不会阻止我，”达达尼昂说，“如果我知道白金汉公爵在哪里，我不会拉着他的手把他带到王后那里，哪怕只是为了激怒红衣主教，如果我们能找到意思是让他来个急转弯，我发誓我会自愿冒着生命危险去做这件事。

‘And did the mercer*,’ rejoined Athos, ‘tell you, d’Artagnan, that the queen thought that Buckingham had been brought over by a forged letter?’
“那商人*，”阿多斯回答道，“达达尼昂，有没有告诉你，王后认为白金汉是被一封伪造的信带过来的？”

*Haberdasher
*服饰店

‘She is afraid so.’
“她恐怕是这样。”

‘Wait a minute, then,’ said Aramis.
“那么，等一下，”阿拉米斯说。

‘What for?’ demanded Porthos.
“做什么？”波托斯问道。

‘Go on, while I endeavor to recall circumstances.’
“继续说吧，我努力回忆一下当时的情况。”

‘And now I am convinced,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘that this abduction of the queen’s woman is connected with the events of which we are speaking, and perhaps with the presence of Buckingham in Paris.’
“现在我确信，”达达尼昂说，“王后的女人被绑架与我们正在谈论的事件有关，也许与白金汉在巴黎的存在有关。”

‘The Gascon is full of ideas,’ said Porthos, with admiration.
“加斯科尼充满了创意，”波托斯钦佩地说。

‘I like to hear him talk,’ said Athos; ‘his dialect amuses me.’
“我喜欢听他说话，”阿托斯说。 “他的方言让我觉得很有趣。”

‘Gentlemen,’ cried Aramis, ‘listen to this.’
“先生们，”阿拉米斯喊道，“听听这个。”

‘Listen to Aramis,’ said his three friends.
“听听阿拉米斯的话，”他的三个朋友说。

‘Yesterday I was at the house of a doctor of theology, whom I sometimes consult about my studies.’
“昨天我在一位神学博士家里，有时我会向他咨询我的学习问题。”

Athos smiled.
阿托斯笑了。

‘He resides in a quiet quarter,’ continued Aramis; ‘his tastes and his profession require it. Now, at the moment when I left his house—‘
“他住在一个安静的地方，”阿拉米斯继续说道。 “他的品味和职业需要它。现在，当我离开他家的那一刻——”

Here Aramis paused.
说到这里，阿拉米斯停了下来。

‘Well,’ cried his auditors; ‘at the moment you left his house?’
“好吧，”他的审计员喊道。 “你离开他家的那一刻？”

Aramis appeared to make a strong inward effort, like a man who, in the full relation of a falsehood, finds himself stopped by some unforeseen obstacle; but the eyes of his three companions were fixed upon him, their ears were wide open, and there were no means of retreat.
阿拉米斯似乎做出了强烈的内心努力，就像一个人在完全谎言的关系中发现自己被一些不可预见的障碍所阻止。但他的三个同伴却双目紧盯着他，竖起耳朵，没有退路。

‘This doctor has a niece,’ continued Aramis.
“这位医生有一个侄女，”阿拉米斯继续说道。

‘Ah, he has a niece!’ interrupted Porthos.
“啊，他有一个侄女！”波托斯打断道。

‘A very respectable lady,’ said Aramis.
“一位非常令人尊敬的女士，”阿拉米斯说。

The three friends burst into laughter.
三个朋友哈哈大笑。

‘Ah, if you laugh, if you doubt me,’ replied Aramis, ‘you shall know nothing.’
“啊，如果你笑，如果你怀疑我，”阿拉米斯回答道，“你就什么都不知道了。”

‘We believe like Mohammedans, and are as mute as tombstones,’ said Athos.
阿托斯说：“我们像伊斯兰教徒一样信仰，却像墓碑一样沉默。”

‘I will continue, then,’ resumed Aramis. ‘This niece comes sometimes to see her uncle; and by chance was there yesterday at the same time that I was, and it was my duty to offer to conduct her to her carriage.’
“那么我会继续，”阿拉米斯继续说道。 “这个侄女有时会来看望她的叔叔；昨天碰巧和我同时在那儿，我有责任主动带她上马车。

‘Ah! She has a carriage, then, this niece of the doctor?’ interrupted Porthos, one of whose faults was a great looseness of tongue. ‘A nice acquaintance, my friend!’
'啊！那么，这个医生的侄女，她有一辆马车吗？”波托斯打断道，他的缺点之一就是口无遮拦。 “一个很好的相识，我的朋友！”

‘Porthos,’ replied Aramis, ‘I have had the occasion to observe to you more than once that you are very indiscreet; and that is injurious to you among the women.’
“波尔托斯，”阿拉米斯回答说，“我不止一次地注意到你，你非常不检点；这对女性来说是有害的。”

‘Gentlemen, gentlemen,’ cried d’Artagnan, who began to get a glimpse of the result of the adventure, ‘the thing is serious. Let us try not to jest, if we can. Go on Aramis, go on.’
“先生们，先生们，”达达尼昂喊道，他开始看到这次冒险的结果，“事情很严重。”如果可以的话，让我们尽量不要开玩笑。继续阿拉米斯，继续。

‘All at once, a tall, dark gentleman—just like yours, d’Artagnan.’
“一下子就出现了一位身材高大、肤色黝黑的绅士——就像你的一样，达达尼昂。”

‘The same, perhaps,’ said he.
“也许是一样的，”他说。

‘Possibly,’ continued Aramis, ‘came toward me, accompanied by five or six men who followed about ten paces behind him; and in the politest tone, ‘Monsieur Duke,’ said he to me, ‘and you madame,’ continued he, addressing the lady on my arm—‘
“可能，”阿拉米斯继续说道，“他向我走来，身边有五、六个人，他们跟在他身后大约十步远；也许是他。”他用最礼貌的语气对我说：“公爵先生，还有您，夫人，”他继续对我手臂上的那位女士说道——“

‘The doctor’s niece?’
“医生的侄女？”

‘Hold your tongue, Porthos,’ said Athos; ‘you are insupportable.’
“住嘴吧，波尔托斯，”阿托斯说道。 “你让人难以忍受。”

‘‘—will you enter this carriage, and that without offering the least resistance, without making the least noise?’’
“——你愿意进入这辆马车，还是那辆马车，不做任何阻力，不发出任何噪音吗？”

‘He took you for Buckingham!’ cried d’Artagnan.
“他带你去了白金汉！”达达尼昂喊道。

‘I believe so,’ replied Aramis.
“我相信是这样，”阿拉米斯回答道。

‘But the lady?’ asked Porthos.
“但是那位女士呢？”波托斯问道。

‘He took her for the queen!’ said d’Artagnan.
“他把她当作王后！”达达尼昂说。

‘Just so,’ replied Aramis.
“正是如此，”阿拉米斯回答道。

‘The Gascon is the devil!’ cried Athos; ‘nothing escapes him.’
“加斯科尼人就是魔鬼！”阿托斯喊道。 “没有什么能逃过他的眼睛。”

‘The fact is,’ said Porthos, ‘Aramis is of the same height, and something of the shape of the duke; but it nevertheless appears to me that the dress of a Musketeer—‘
“事实是，”波托斯说，“阿拉米斯的身高和公爵一样高，体形也有些像；但在我看来，火枪手的服装——”

‘I wore an enormous cloak,’ said Aramis.
“我穿着一件巨大的斗篷，”阿拉米斯说。

‘In the month of July? The devil!’ said Porthos. ‘Is the doctor afraid that you may be recognized?’
‘七月份？见鬼了！”波尔托斯说道。 “医生是不是担心你被认出来？”

‘I can comprehend that the spy may have been deceived by the person; but the face—‘
“我可以理解，间谍可能被这个人欺骗了；但脸——”

‘I had a large hat,’ said Aramis.
“我有一顶大帽子，”阿拉米斯说。

‘Oh, good lord,’ cried Porthos, ‘what precautions for the study of theology!’
“哦，上帝啊，”波托斯喊道，“学习神学要注意什么！”

‘Gentlemen, gentlemen,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘do not let us lose our time in jesting. Let us separate, and let us seek the mercer’s wife—that is the key of the intrigue.’
“先生们，先生们，”达达尼昂说道，“别让我们在开玩笑中浪费时间。让我们分开，寻找商人的妻子——这就是阴谋的关键。

‘A woman of such inferior condition! Can you believe so?’ said Porthos, protruding his lips with contempt.
‘一个女人的条件竟然这么差！你能相信吗？”波尔托斯轻蔑地伸出嘴唇说道。

‘She is goddaughter to Laporte, the confidential valet of the queen. Have I not told you so, gentlemen? Besides, it has perhaps been her Majesty’s calculation to seek on this occasion for support so lowly. High heads expose themselves from afar, and the cardinal is longsighted.’
“她是女王的贴身男仆拉波尔特的教女。先生们，我没有告诉过你们吗？再说，这次如此卑微地寻求支持，或许也是女王陛下的算计。高头显远，红衣主教目光远大。

‘Well,’ said Porthos, ‘in the first place make a bargain with the mercer, and a good bargain.’
“好吧，”波托斯说，“首先和商人讨价还价，而且是一笔划算的讨价还价。”

‘That’s useless,’ said d’Artagnan; ‘for I believe if he does not pay us, we shall be well enough paid by another party.’
“那是没用的，”达达尼昂说。 “因为我相信，如果他不付钱给我们，另一方也会给我们足够的报酬。”

At this moment a sudden noise of footsteps was heard upon the stairs; the door was thrown violently open, and the unfortunate mercer rushed into the chamber in which the council was held.
就在这时，楼梯上突然传来一阵脚步声。门被猛地推开，不幸的默瑟冲进了举行会议的房间。

‘Save me, gentlemen, for the love of heaven, save me!’ cried he. ‘There are four men come to arrest me. Save me! Save me!’
“救救我，先生们，看在老天爷的份上，救救我吧！”他喊道。 “有四个人来逮捕我。救我！救我！'

Porthos and Aramis arose.
波尔托斯和阿拉米斯站了起来。

‘A moment,’ cried d’Artagnan, making them a sign to replace in the scabbard their half-drawn swords. ‘It is not courage that is needed; it is prudence.’
“等一下，”达达尼昂喊道，示意他们把半拔出来的剑放回剑鞘。 ‘需要的不是勇气，而是勇气。这是谨慎的做法。

‘And yet,’ cried Porthos, ‘we will not leave—‘
“然而，”波尔托斯喊道，“我们不会离开——”

‘You will leave d’Artagnan to act as he thinks proper,’ said Athos. ‘He has, I repeat, the longest head of the four, and for my part I declare that I will obey him. Do as you think best, d’Artagnan.’
“你将让达达尼昂按照他认为正确的方式行事，”阿托斯说。 “我再说一遍，他的头是四个人中最长的，就我而言，我宣布我会服从他。做你认为最好的事吧，达达尼昂。”

At this moment the four Guards appeared at the door of the antechamber, but seeing four Musketeers standing, and their swords by their sides, they hesitated about going farther.
就在这时，四名侍卫出现在了前厅门口，但见四名火枪手站着，身旁佩剑，他们犹豫着是否要走得更远。

‘Come in, gentlemen, come in,’ called d’Artagnan; ‘you are here in my apartment, and we are all faithful servants of the king and cardinal.’
“请进，先生们，请进，”达达尼昂喊道。 “你在我的公寓里，我们都是国王和红衣主教忠实的仆人。”

‘Then, gentlemen, you will not oppose our executing the orders we have received?’ asked one who appeared to be the leader of the party.
“那么，先生们，你们不会反对我们执行我们收到的命令吗？”一位似乎是该党领导人的人问道。

‘On the contrary, gentlemen, we would assist you if it were necessary.’
“相反，先生们，如果有必要，我们会帮助你们。”

‘What does he say?’ grumbled Porthos.
“他说什么？”波托斯抱怨道。

‘You are a simpleton,’ said Athos. ‘Silence!’
“你真是个傻瓜，”阿托斯说。 '安静！'

‘But you promised me—‘ whispered the poor mercer.
“但你答应过我——”可怜的商人低声说道。

‘We can only save you by being free ourselves,’ replied d’Artagnan, in a rapid, low tone; ‘and if we appear inclined to defend you, they will arrest us with you.’
“我们只能通过自己的自由来拯救你，”达达尼昂用快速而低沉的语气回答道。 “如果我们表现出愿意保护你，他们就会把我们和你一起逮捕。”

‘It seems, nevertheless—‘
“不过，看起来——”

‘Come, gentlemen, come!’ said d’Artagnan, aloud; ‘I have no motive for defending Monsieur. I saw him today for the first time, and he can tell you on what occasion; he came to demand the rent of my lodging. Is that not true, Monsieur Bonacieux? Answer!’
“来吧，先生们，来吧！”达达尼昂大声说道。 “我没有理由为先生辩护。我今天第一次见到他，他可以告诉你是什么场合；他来索要我的宿舍租金。博纳希厄先生，这不是真的吗？回答！'

‘That is the very truth,’ cried the mercer; ‘but Monsieur does not tell you—‘
“这就是事实，”布商喊道。 “但是先生并没有告诉你——”

‘Silence, with respect to me, silence, with respect to my friends; silence about the queen, above all, or you will ruin everybody without saving yourself! Come, come, gentlemen, remove the fellow.’ And d’Artagnan pushed the half-stupefied mercer among the Guards, saying to him, ‘You are a shabby old fellow, my dear. You come to demand money of me—of a Musketeer! To prison with him! Gentlemen, once more, take him to prison, and keep him under key as long as possible; that will give me time to pay him.’
‘沉默，是对我的尊重，沉默，是对我的朋友的尊重；最重要的是，对女王保持沉默，否则你会毁了所有人，却无法拯救自己！来吧，来吧，先生们，把这个家伙带走吧。”达达尼昂把那个半昏迷不醒的商人推到卫兵中间，对他说：“亲爱的，你是个破旧的老家伙。你来向我要钱——向火枪手要钱！和他一起进监狱！先生们，再次把他关进监狱，并尽可能长时间地把他关在监狱里。这样我就有时间付钱给他了。

The officers were full of thanks, and took away their prey. As they were going down d’Artagnan laid his hand on the shoulder of their leader.
军官们感激不尽，把猎物带走了。当他们下山时，达达尼昂把手放在他们领袖的肩膀上。

‘May I not drink to your health, and you to mine?’ said d’Artagnan, filling two glasses with the Beaugency wine which he had obtained from the liberality of M. Bonacieux.
“我可以为你的健康干杯吗？你也为我的健康干杯吗？”达达尼昂一边说，一边给两个杯子倒满了博纳西厄先生慷慨赠予的博让西葡萄酒。

‘That will do me great honor,’ said the leader of the posse, ‘and I accept thankfully.’
“这将给我带来莫大的荣誉，”队伍的首领说道，“我很感激地接受了。”

‘Then to yours, monsieur—what is your name?’
“那么您的先生，您叫什么名字？”

‘Boisrenard.’
“布瓦雷纳德。”

‘Monsieur Boisrenard.’
“布瓦雷纳德先生。”

‘To yours, my gentlemen! What is your name, in your turn, if you please?’
“致你们的，我的先生们！请问你叫什么名字？

‘d’Artagnan.’
“达达尼昂。”

‘To yours, monsieur.’
“致您的，先生。”

‘And above all others,’ cried d’Artagnan, as if carried away by his enthusiasm, ‘to that of the king and the cardinal.’
“最重要的是，”达达尼昂喊道，仿佛被自己的热情冲昏了头脑，“国王和红衣主教的。”

The leader of the posse would perhaps have doubted the sincerity of d’Artagnan if the wine had been bad; but the wine was good, and he was convinced.
如果酒不好的话，这支队伍的首领也许会怀疑达达尼昂的诚意。但酒好，他深信不疑。

‘What diabolical villainy you have performed here,’ said Porthos, when the officer had rejoined his companions and the four friends found themselves alone. ‘Shame, shame, for four Musketeers to allow an unfortunate fellow who cried for help to be arrested in their midst! And a gentleman to hobnob with a bailiff!’
“你在这里犯下了多么邪恶的恶行，”当这名军官重新回到他的同伴身边时，波托斯说道，而四个朋友却发现只剩下他们自己了。 “耻辱，耻辱，四个火枪手居然让一个呼救的不幸家伙在他们中间被捕！还有一位与法警交往的绅士！”

‘Porthos,’ said Aramis, ‘Athos has already told you that you are a simpleton, and I am quite of his opinion. D’Artagnan, you are a great man; and when you occupy Monsieur de Treville’s place, I will come and ask your influence to secure me an abbey.’
“波托斯，”阿拉米斯说，“阿托斯已经告诉过你，你是个傻瓜，我完全同意他的看法。达达尼昂，你是一个伟大的人；当你接任德·特雷维尔先生的位置时，我会来请求你的影响力，为我争取一座修道院。

‘Well, I am in a maze,’ said Porthos; ‘do YOU approve of what d’Artagnan has done?’
“好吧，我在迷宫里，”波托斯说。 “你赞同达达尼昂所做的事情吗？”

‘PARBLEU! Indeed I do,’ said Athos; ‘I not only approve of what he has done, but I congratulate him upon it.’
‘帕尔布鲁！我确实如此。”阿托斯说道。 “我不仅赞同他所做的事情，而且还祝贺他。”

‘And now, gentlemen,’ said d’Artagnan, without stopping to explain his conduct to Porthos, ‘All for one, one for all—that is our motto, is it not?’
“现在，先生们，”达达尼昂说道，没有停下来向波托斯解释他的行为，“一切为了一，一为了一切——这就是我们的座右铭，不是吗？”

‘And yet—‘ said Porthos.
“然而——”波托斯说道。

‘Hold out your hand and swear!’ cried Athos and Aramis at once.
“伸出你的手发誓！”阿托斯和阿拉米斯立刻喊道。

Overcome by example, grumbling to himself, nevertheless, Porthos stretched out his hand, and the four friends repeated with one voice the formula dictated by d’Artagnan:
尽管如此，波尔托斯还是以身作则，对自己发牢骚，最终还是伸出了手，四个朋友异口同声地重复了达达尼昂口述的公式：

‘All for one, one for all.’
“一切为一，一为一切。”

‘That’s well! Now let us everyone retire to his own home,’ said d’Artagnan, as if he had done nothing but command all his life; ‘and attention! For from this moment we are at feud with the cardinal.’
‘那就好！现在让我们每个人都回到自己的家去吧。”达达尼昂说道，仿佛他一生除了发号施令什么也没做。 '还有注意！因为从这一刻起我们就与红衣主教发生了争执。”

10 A MOUSETRAP IN THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY
10 十七世纪的捕鼠器

The invention of the mousetrap does not date from our days; as soon as societies, in forming, had invented any kind of police, that police invented mousetraps.
捕鼠器的发明并不是从我们这个时代就发明的。一旦社会在形成过程中发明了某种警察，警察就发明了捕鼠器。

As perhaps our readers are not familiar with the slang of the Rue de Jerusalem, and as it is fifteen years since we applied this word for the first time to this thing, allow us to explain to them what is a mousetrap.
也许我们的读者不熟悉耶路撒冷街的俚语，而且自从我们第一次用这个词来形容这个东西以来已经有十五年了，请允许我们向他们解释一下什么是捕鼠器。

When in a house, of whatever kind it may be, an individual suspected of any crime is arrested, the arrest is held secret. Four or five men are placed in ambuscade in the first room. The door is opened to all who knock. It is closed after them, and they are arrested; so that at the end of two or three days they have in their power almost all the HABITUES of the establishment. And that is a mousetrap.
当嫌疑人在任何类型的房屋中被捕时，无论其类型如何，逮捕都是秘密进行的。第一个房间里埋伏着四五个人。门向所有敲门的人敞开。他们之后门就关了，他们被捕了；这样，两三天后，他们就掌握了该机构的几乎所有习惯。那是一个捕鼠器。

The apartment of M. Bonacieux, then, became a mousetrap; and whoever appeared there was taken and interrogated by the cardinal’s people. It must be observed that as a separate passage led to the first floor, in which d’Artagnan lodged, those who called on him were exempted from this detention.
于是，博纳西厄先生的公寓就成了一个捕鼠器。无论是谁出现在那里，都会被红衣主教的人带走并审问。必须指出的是，由于有一条单独的通道通向达达尼昂所住的一楼，因此拜访他的人可以免受拘留。

Besides, nobody came thither but the three Musketeers; they had all been engaged in earnest search and inquiries, but had discovered nothing. Athos had even gone so far as to question M. de Treville—a thing which, considering the habitual reticence of the worthy Musketeer, had very much astonished his captain. But M. de Treville knew nothing, except that the last time he had seen the cardinal, the king, and the queen, the cardinal looked very thoughtful, the king uneasy, and the redness of the queen’s eyes donated that she had been sleepless or tearful. But this last circumstance was not striking, as the queen since her marriage had slept badly and wept much.
此外，除了三个火枪手之外，没有人来。他们都进行了认真的寻找和询问，但一无所获。阿多斯甚至质问了德·特雷维尔先生——考虑到这位可敬的火枪手一贯的沉默寡言，这件事让他的队长非常惊讶。但德特雷维尔先生什么都不知道，只知道他上次见到红衣主教、国王和王后时，红衣主教看上去很若有所思，国王不安，而王后的红眼睛说明她一直没睡着或者睡不着觉。内牛满面。但最后的情况并不引人注目，因为女王自结婚以来一直睡得很不好，而且哭得很厉害。

M. de Treville requested Athos, whatever might happen, to be observant of his duty to the king, but particularly to the queen, begging him to convey his desires to his comrades.
德特雷维尔先生要求阿多斯，无论发生什么情况，都要恪守对国王的职责，特别是对王后的职责，并恳求他将自己的愿望转达给他的战友。

As to d’Artagnan, he did not budge from his apartment. He converted his chamber into an observatory. From his windows he saw all the visitors who were caught. Then, having removed a plank from his floor, and nothing remaining but a simple ceiling between him and the room beneath, in which the interrogatories were made, he heard all that passed between the inquisitors and the accused.
至于达达尼昂，他没有离开自己的公寓。他把他的房间改造成天文台。从他的窗户里，他看到了所有被抓到的访客。然后，他从地板上移走了一块木板，在他和下面进行审讯的房间之间只剩下了一个简单的天花板，他听到了审判官和被告之间传递的一切。

The interrogatories, preceded by a minute search operated upon the persons arrested, were almost always framed thus: ‘Has Madame Bonacieux sent anything to you for her husband, or any other person? Has Monsieur Bonacieux sent anything to you for his wife, or for any other person? Has either of them confided anything to you by word of mouth?’
在对被捕者进行仔细搜查之前，审讯几乎总是这样进行的：“博纳西厄夫人是否为她的丈夫或任何其他人给您寄过任何东西？”博纳西厄先生有没有为他的妻子或任何其他人寄过什么东西给您？他们有没有向你口头透露过什么？

‘If they knew anything, they would not question people in this manner,’ said d’Artagnan to himself. ‘Now, what is it they want to know? Why, they want to know if the Duke of Buckingham is in Paris, and if he has had, or is likely to have, an interview with the queen.’
“如果他们知道什么，他们就不会以这种方式询问别人，”达达尼昂自言自语道。 ‘现在，他们想知道什么？为什么，他们想知道白金汉公爵是否在巴黎，以及他是否已经或可能接受女王的采访。

D’Artagnan held onto this idea, which, from what he had heard, was not wanting in probability.
达达尼昂坚持这个想法，据他所知，这个想法很有可能。

In the meantime, the mousetrap continued in operation, and likewise d’Artagnan’s vigilance.
与此同时，捕鼠器继续运作，达达尼昂也继续保持警惕。

On the evening of the day after the arrest of poor Bonacieux, as Athos had just left d’Artagnan to report at M. de Treville’s, as nine o’clock had just struck, and as Planchet, who had not yet made the bed, was beginning his task, a knocking was heard at the street door. The door was instantly opened and shut; someone was taken in the mousetrap.
可怜的博纳希厄被捕后的第二天晚上，阿多斯刚刚离开达达尼昂去德特雷维尔先生家报到，九点钟刚刚敲响，而普朗谢特还没有铺床，正要开始他的工作，临街的门上传来敲门声。门立刻被打开又关上。有人被困在捕鼠器里了。

D’Artagnan flew to his hole, laid himself down on the floor at full length, and listened.
达达尼昂飞到他的洞里，全身躺在地板上，听着。

Cries were soon heard, and then moans, which someone appeared to be endeavoring to stifle. There were no questions.
很快就听到了哭声，然后是呻吟声，似乎有人在努力压制。没有人提问。

‘The devil!’ said d’Artagnan to himself. ‘It seems like a woman! They search her; she resists; they use force—the scoundrels!’
“魔鬼！”达达尼昂自言自语道。 ‘好像是个女人啊！他们搜查了她；她反抗；他们使用武力——这些恶棍！

In spite of his prudence, d’Artagnan restrained himself with great difficulty from taking a part in the scene that was going on below.
尽管达达尼昂很谨慎，但他还是很难克制住自己，没有参与下面正在发生的场景。

‘But I tell you that I am the mistress of the house, gentlemen! I tell you I am Madame Bonacieux; I tell you I belong to the queen!’ cried the unfortunate woman.
“但我告诉你们，我是这所房子的女主人，先生们！我告诉你我是博纳瑟夫人；我告诉你我属于女王！”不幸的女人喊道。

‘Madame Bonacieux!’ murmured d’Artagnan. ‘Can I be so lucky as to find what everybody is seeking for?’
“博纳希厄夫人！”达达尼昂低声说道。 “我能如此幸运地找到每个人都在寻找的东西吗？”

The voice became more and more indistinct; a tumultuous movement shook the partition. The victim resisted as much as a woman could resist four men.
声音越来越模糊；一阵剧烈的运动震动了隔板。受害者的反抗程度相当于一个女人可以反抗四个男人的程度。

‘Pardon, gentlemen—par—‘ murmured the voice, which could now only be heard in inarticulate sounds.
“请原谅，先生们——请原谅——”那个声音低声说道，现在只能以含糊不清的声音听到。

‘They are binding her; they are going to drag her away,’ cried d’Artagnan to himself, springing up from the floor. ‘My sword! Good, it is by my side! Planchet!’
‘他们正在捆绑她； “他们会把她拖走的。”达达尼昂一边从地板上跳起来，一边自言自语地喊道。 ‘我的剑！很好，它就在我身边！普兰切特！

‘Monsieur.’
“先生。”

‘Run and seek Athos, Porthos and Aramis. One of the three will certainly be at home, perhaps all three. Tell them to take arms, to come here, and to run! Ah, I remember, Athos is at Monsieur de Treville’s.’
‘跑去寻找阿托斯、波托斯和阿拉米斯。这三个人中的一个肯定会在家，也许三个都在家。告诉他们拿起武器，到这里来，然后逃跑！啊，我记得，阿托斯在德特雷维尔先生家。”

‘But where are you going, monsieur, where are you going?’
“但是你要去哪里，先生，你要去哪里？”

‘I am going down by the window, in order to be there the sooner,’ cried d’Artagnan. ‘You put back the boards, sweep the floor, go out at the door, and run as I told you.’
“我要从窗户下去，以便早点到那里，”达达尼昂喊道。 “你把木板放回去，扫地，从门口出去，然后按照我告诉你的跑。”

‘Oh, monsieur! Monsieur! You will kill yourself,’ cried Planchet.
‘哦，先生！先生！ “你会自杀的，”普兰切特喊道。

‘Hold your tongue, stupid fellow,’ said d’Artagnan; and laying hold of the casement, he let himself gently down from the first story, which fortunately was not very elevated, without doing himself the slightest injury.
“闭嘴，愚蠢的家伙，”达达尼昂说。他抓住窗扉，轻轻地从一楼下来，幸好楼层不是很高，没有对自己造成丝毫伤害。

He then went straight to the door and knocked, murmuring, ‘I will go myself and be caught in the mousetrap, but woe be to the cats that shall pounce upon such a mouse!’
然后他径直走到门口，敲了敲门，低声说道：“我自己去，被老鼠夹夹住，但那些扑向这样一只老鼠的猫可就惨了！”

The knocker had scarcely sounded under the hand of the young man before the tumult ceased, steps approached, the door was opened, and d’Artagnan, sword in hand, rushed into the rooms of M. Bonacieux, the door of which doubtless acted upon by a spring, closed after him.
门环在年轻人的手下刚刚响起，骚乱就停止了，脚步声走近，门被打开了，达达尼昂手持剑，冲进了博纳希厄先生的房间，门无疑受到了影响。由一个弹簧，在他之后关闭。

Then those who dwelt in Bonacieux’s unfortunate house, together with the nearest neighbors, heard loud cries, stamping of feet, clashing of swords, and breaking of furniture. A moment after, those who, surprised by this tumult, had gone to their windows to learn the cause of it, saw the door open, and four men, clothed in black, not COME out of it, but FLY, like so many frightened crows, leaving on the ground and on the corners of the furniture, feathers from their wings; that is to say, patches of their clothes and fragments of their cloaks.
然后，住在博纳西厄不幸的房子里的人和最近的邻居一起听到了大声的叫喊声、跺脚声、剑的碰撞声和家具的破碎声。过了一会儿，那些对这场骚动感到惊讶的人走到窗前想了解原因，看到门打开了，四个穿着黑衣服的人没有从里面出来，而是飞走了，就像许多受惊的人一样乌鸦把翅膀上的羽毛留在地上和家具的角上；也就是说，他们的衣服补丁和斗篷碎片。

D’Artagnan was conqueror—without much effort, it must be confessed, for only one of the officers was armed, and even he defended himself for form’s sake. It is true that the three others had endeavored to knock the young man down with chairs, stools, and crockery; but two or three scratches made by the Gascon’s blade terrified them. Ten minutes sufficed for their defeat, and d’Artagnan remained master of the field of battle.
达达尼昂是征服者——必须承认，他毫不费力，因为只有一名军官携带武器，甚至他也只是为了形式而自卫。确实，其他三人曾试图用椅子、凳子和陶器将这个年轻人打倒；但他并没有这么做。但加斯科涅人的刀刃留下的两三处划痕让他们感到害怕。十分钟就足以让他们失败，而达达尼昂仍然是战场的主人。

The neighbors who had opened their windows, with the coolness peculiar to the inhabitants of Paris in these times of perpetual riots and disturbances, closed them again as soon as they saw the four men in black flee—their instinct telling them that for the time all was over. Besides, it began to grow late, and then, as today, people went to bed early in the quarter of the Luxembourg.
邻居们打开窗户，带着巴黎居民在骚乱和骚乱不断的时期所特有的冷静，一看到四个黑衣人逃跑，他们就又关上了窗户——他们的本能告诉他们，暂时所有的人都逃走了。已经完了。此外，天色开始变晚，然后，就像今天一样，卢森堡区的人们早早就睡觉了。

On being left alone with Mme. Bonacieux, d’Artagnan turned toward her; the poor woman reclined where she had been left, half-fainting upon an armchair. D’Artagnan examined her with a rapid glance.
独自一人与夫人在一起。博纳希厄，达达尼昂转向她。可怜的女人斜倚在原来的地方，半昏倒在扶手椅上。达达尼昂快速地扫视了她一眼。

She was a charming woman of twenty-five or twenty-six years, with dark hair, blue eyes, and a nose slightly turned up, admirable teeth, and a complexion marbled with rose and opal. There, however, ended the signs which might have confounded her with a lady of rank. The hands were white, but without delicacy; the feet did not bespeak the woman of quality. Happily, d’Artagnan was not yet acquainted with such niceties.
她是一位二十五、二十六岁的迷人女人，黑发，蓝眼睛，鼻子微微翘起，牙齿漂亮，肤色带有玫瑰色和蛋白石色的大理石花纹。然而，那些可能使她与一位有地位的女士相混淆的迹象就到此为止了。双手白皙，但并不精致；脚并不表明这个女人有品位。令人高兴的是，达达尼昂还不熟悉这些细节。

While d’Artagnan was examining Mme. Bonacieux, and was, as we have said, close to her, he saw on the ground a fine cambric handkerchief, which he picked up, as was his habit, and at the corner of which he recognized the same cipher he had seen on the handkerchief which had nearly caused him and Aramis to cut each other’s throat.
当达达尼昂正在检查夫人时。博纳西厄，正如我们所说，离她很近，他看到地上有一块精美的麻布手帕，他按照他的习惯捡起它，在手帕的一角他认出了他在纸上看到的相同的密码。手帕差点让他和阿拉米斯割断对方的喉咙。

From that time, d’Artagnan had been cautious with respect to handkerchiefs with arms on them, and he therefore placed in the pocket of Mme. Bonacieux the one he had just picked up.
从那时起，达达尼昂就对带有手臂的手帕十分谨慎，因此他将其放入了夫人的口袋中。博纳西厄就是他刚刚拿起的那个。

At that moment Mme. Bonacieux recovered her senses. She opened her eyes, looked around her with terror, saw that the apartment was empty and that she was alone with her liberator. She extended her hands to him with a smile. Mme. Bonacieux had the sweetest smile in the world.
就在那一刻女士。博纳希厄恢复了知觉。她睁开眼睛，惊恐地环顾四周，发现公寓空无一人，只有她和她的解放者在一起。她微笑着向他伸出双手。女士。博纳希厄拥有世界上最甜美的笑容。

‘Ah, monsieur!’ said she, ‘you have saved me; permit me to thank you.’
“啊，先生！”她说，“你救了我；请允许我感谢你。

‘Madame,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘I have only done what every gentleman would have done in my place; you owe me no thanks.’
“夫人，”达达尼昂说，“我只是做了每一位绅士在我的位置上都会做的事；你不欠我谢谢。

‘Oh, yes, monsieur, oh, yes; and I hope to prove to you that you have not served an ingrate. But what could these men, whom I at first took for robbers, want with me, and why is Monsieur Bonacieux not here?’
“哦，是的，先生，哦，是的；”我希望向你证明你没有为忘恩负义的人服务。但是这些我一开始以为是强盗的人想要和我一起做什么呢？为什么博纳西厄先生不在这里呢？

‘Madame, those men were more dangerous than any robbers could have been, for they are the agents of the cardinal; and as to your husband, Monsieur Bonacieux, he is not here because he was yesterday evening conducted to the Bastille.’
“夫人，这些人比强盗更危险，因为他们是红衣主教的代理人；至于你的丈夫博纳西厄先生，他不在这里，因为他昨天晚上被带到了巴士底狱。

‘My husband in the Bastille!’ cried Mme. Bonacieux. ‘Oh, my God! What has he done? Poor dear man, he is innocence itself!’
“我的丈夫在巴士底狱！”夫人喊道。博纳西厄。 '我的天啊！他做了什么？可怜的亲爱的人，他本身就是纯真的！

And something like a faint smile lighted the still-terrified features of the young woman.
年轻女子仍然惊恐的脸上浮现出一丝淡淡的微笑。

‘What has he done, madame?’ said d’Artagnan. ‘I believe that his only crime is to have at the same time the good fortune and the misfortune to be your husband.’
“他做了什么，夫人？”达达尼昂说。 “我相信他唯一的罪行就是既幸运又不幸地成为你的丈夫。”

‘But, monsieur, you know then—‘
“但是，先生，你知道——”

‘I know that you have been abducted, madame.’
“我知道您被绑架了，女士。”

‘And by whom? Do you know him? Oh, if you know him, tell me!’
‘那么由谁来呢？你认识他吗？哦，如果你认识他，请告诉我！

‘By a man of from forty to forty-five years, with black hair, a dark complexion, and a scar on his left temple.’
“是一个四十到四十五岁的男人，黑发，肤色黝黑，左太阳穴上有一道疤痕。”

‘That is he, that is he; but his name?’
‘就是他，就是他；但他的名字呢？

‘Ah, his name? I do not know that.’
‘啊，他的名字？我不知道那个。'

‘And did my husband know I had been carried off?’
“我丈夫知道我被带走了吗？”

‘He was informed of it by a letter, written to him by the abductor himself.’
“他是通过绑架者本人写给他的一封信得知此事的。”

‘And does he suspect,’ said Mme. Bonacieux, with some embarrassment, ‘the cause of this event?’
“他有怀疑吗？”夫人说。博纳希厄有些尴尬，“这件事的原因是什么？”

‘He attributed it, I believe, to a political cause.’
“我认为，他将其归因于政治原因。”

‘I doubted from the first; and now I think entirely as he does. Then my dear Monsieur Bonacieux has not suspected me a single instant?’
“我从一开始就怀疑；现在我的想法完全和他一样。那么我亲爱的博纳西厄先生就没有一刻怀疑过我吗？

‘So far from it, madame, he was too proud of your prudence, and above all, of your love.’
“远非如此，夫人，他对你的谨慎，尤其是对你的爱感到太骄傲了。”

A second smile, almost imperceptible, stole over the rosy lips of the pretty young woman.
美丽的年轻女子红润的嘴唇上又露出了几乎难以察觉的微笑。

‘But,’ continued d’Artagnan, ‘how did you escape?’
“但是，”达达尼昂继续说道，“你是怎么逃走的？”

‘I took advantage of a moment when they left me alone; and as I had known since morning the reason of my abduction, with the help of the sheets I let myself down from the window. Then, as I believed my husband would be at home, I hastened hither.’
“我利用了他们让我独自一人的时刻；正如我从早上起就知道我被绑架的原因一样，我借助床单从窗户跳了下来。然后，因为我相信我的丈夫会在家，所以我赶紧赶到这里。

‘To place yourself under his protection?’
“把自己置于他的保护之下？”

‘Oh, no, poor dear man! I knew very well that he was incapable of defending me; but as he could serve us in other ways, I wished to inform him.’
‘哦，不，可怜的亲爱的人！我很清楚他没有能力保护我；但由于他可以以其他方式为我们服务，我想通知他。

‘Of what?’
“什么？”

‘Oh, that is not my secret; I must not, therefore, tell you.’
‘哦，这不是我的秘密；因此，我不能告诉你。

‘Besides,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘pardon me, madame, if, guardsman as I am, I remind you of prudence—besides, I believe we are not here in a very proper place for imparting confidences. The men I have put to flight will return reinforced; if they find us here, we are lost. I have sent for three of my friends, but who knows whether they were at home?’
“此外，”达达尼昂说，“请原谅我，夫人，作为一名卫兵，我提醒您要谨慎行事——此外，我相信我们现在不是在一个非常适合透露秘密的地方。我所驱散的人将得到增援回来；如果他们在这里找到我们，我们就迷路了。我已经派人去叫了三个朋友，但谁知道他们是否在家？

‘Yes, yes! You are right,’ cried the affrighted Mme. Bonacieux; ‘let us fly! Let us save ourselves.’
'是的是的！你是对的，”受惊的夫人喊道。博纳西厄； ‘让我们飞吧！让我们拯救自己吧。

At these words she passed her arm under that of d’Artagnan, and urged him forward eagerly.
说完这句话，她把胳膊伸到达达尼昂的胳膊下面，急切地催促他向前走。

‘But whither shall we fly—whither escape?’
“但是我们该飞到哪里去——逃到哪里去呢？”

‘Let us first withdraw from this house; afterward we shall see.’
“我们先离开这所房子吧；之后我们就会看到。

The young woman and the young man, without taking the trouble to shut the door after them, descended the Rue des Fossoyeurs rapidly, turned into the Rue des Fosses-Monsieur-le-Prince, and did not stop till they came to the Place St. Sulpice.
少妇和少男懒得关门，迅速沿着福索耶街走下去，拐进福塞王子勒王子街，直到来到圣广场才停下来。 .苏尔皮斯。

‘And now what are we to do, and where do you wish me to conduct you?’ asked d’Artagnan.
“现在我们该怎么办？你希望我带你去哪里？”达达尼昂问道。

‘I am at quite a loss how to answer you, I admit,’ said Mme. Bonacieux. ‘My intention was to inform Monsieur Laporte, through my husband, in order that Monsieur Laporte might tell us precisely what had taken place at the Louvre in the last three days, and whether there is any danger in presenting myself there.’
“我承认，我很不知道如何回答你，”夫人说。博纳西厄。 “我的目​​的是通过我的丈夫通知拉波尔特先生，以便拉波尔特先生准确地告诉我们过去三天在卢浮宫发生了什么，以及我去那里是否有任何危险。”

‘But I,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘can go and inform Monsieur Laporte.’
“但是我，”达达尼昂说，“可以去通知拉波尔特先生。”

‘No doubt you could, only there is one misfortune, and that is that Monsieur Bonacieux is known at the Louvre, and would be allowed to pass; whereas you are not known there, and the gate would be closed against you.’
“毫无疑问，你可以，只是有一个不幸，那就是博纳西厄先生在卢浮宫很出名，他会被允许过去；而你在那里并不为人所知，大门也会对你关闭。

‘Ah, bah!’ said d’Artagnan; ‘you have at some wicket of the Louvre a CONCIERGE who is devoted to you, and who, thanks to a password, would—‘
“啊，呸！”达达尼昂说道。 “在卢浮宫的某个检票口，有一位礼宾人员竭诚为您服务，并且通过密码，他会——”

Mme. Bonacieux looked earnestly at the young man.
女士。博纳希厄认真地看着年轻人。

‘And if I give you this password,’ said she, ‘would you forget it as soon as you used it?’
“如果我给你这个密码，”她说，“你一用就会忘记吗？”

‘By my honor, by the faith of a gentleman!’ said d’Artagnan, with an accent so truthful that no one could mistake it.
“以我的名誉，以一位绅士的信念！”达达尼昂说，他的口音如此真诚，没有人会听错。

‘Then I believe you. You appear to be a brave young man; besides, your fortune may perhaps be the result of your devotedness.’
‘那我就相信你了。你看起来是一个勇敢的年轻人；此外，你的财富也许是你奉献的结果。

‘I will do, without a promise and voluntarily, all that I can do to serve the king and be agreeable to the queen. Dispose of me, then, as a friend.’
“我会在没有承诺的情况下自愿尽我所能，为国王服务并取悦王后。那么，就把我当作朋友吧。”

‘But I—where shall I go meanwhile?’
“但是我——我该去哪里呢？”

‘Is there nobody from whose house Monsieur Laporte can come and fetch you?’
“拉波尔特先生家里没人能来接您吗？”

‘No, I can trust nobody.’
“不，我不能相信任何人。”

‘Stop,’ said d’Artagnan; ‘we are near Athos’s door. Yes, here it is.’
“停下来，”达达尼昂说。 “我们已经靠近阿多斯的门了。”是的，就在这里。

‘Who is this Athos?’
“阿托斯是谁？”

‘One of my friends.’
'我的朋友之一。'

‘But if he should be at home and see me?’
“但是如果他在家来看我呢？”

‘He is not at home, and I will carry away the key, after having placed you in his apartment.’
“他不在家，我把你安置在他的公寓后，会把钥匙拿走。”

‘But if he should return?’
“但是如果他回来呢？”

‘Oh, he won’t return; and if he should, he will be told that I have brought a woman with me, and that woman is in his apartment.’
‘哦，他不会回来了；如果他愿意的话，他会被告知我带来了一个女人，而那个女人就在他的公寓里。

‘But that will compromise me sadly, you know.’
“但不幸的是，这会让我妥协，你知道。”

‘Of what consequence? Nobody knows you. Besides, we are in a situation to overlook ceremony.’
‘有什么后果呢？没有人认识你。此外，我们处于忽视仪式的境地。

‘Come, then, let us go to your friend’s house. Where does he live?’
「那么，我们去你朋友家吧。」他住在哪里？'

‘Rue Ferou, two steps from here.’
“费鲁街，距这里两步之遥。”

‘Let us go!’
'让我们去！'

Both resumed their way. As d’Artagnan had foreseen, Athos was not within. He took the key, which was customarily given him as one of the family, ascended the stairs, and introduced Mme. Bonacieux into the little apartment of which we have given a description.
两人又继续赶路。正如达达尼昂所预见的那样，阿托斯并不在里面。他拿着钥匙（这把钥匙通常是家人送给他的），走上楼梯，介绍了夫人。博纳西厄走进了我们已经描述过的小公寓。

‘You are at home,’ said he. ‘Remain here, fasten the door inside, and open it to nobody unless you hear three taps like this;’ and he tapped thrice—two taps close together and pretty hard, the other after an interval, and lighter.
“你在家，”他说。 “留在这儿，把门关在里面，不要给任何人开门，除非你听到这样的三声敲击声；”他敲了三次——两次敲击声很近，而且相当用力，间隔一段时间后，另一次敲击声更轻。

‘That is well,’ said Mme. Bonacieux. ‘Now, in my turn, let me give you my instructions.’
“那就好，”夫人说。博纳西厄。 “现在，轮到我给你指示了。”

‘I am all attention.’
“我全神贯注。”

‘Present yourself at the wicket of the Louvre, on the side of the Rue de l’Echelle, and ask for Germain.’
“到卢浮宫的检票口，埃谢尔街一侧，去找热尔曼。”

‘Well, and then?’
“嗯，然后呢？”

‘He will ask you what you want, and you will answer by these two words, ‘Tours’ and ‘Bruxelles.’ He will at once put himself at your orders.’
“他会问你想要什么，你会用‘图尔’和‘布鲁塞尔’这两个词来回答。他会立即听从你的命令。”

‘And what shall I command him?’
“那我该命令他什么呢？”

‘To go and fetch Monsieur Laporte, the queen’s VALET DE CHAMBRE.’
“去接女王的贴身男仆拉波尔特先生。”

‘And when he shall have informed him, and Monsieur Laporte is come?’
“拉波尔特先生什么时候来通知他呢？”

‘You will send him to me.’
“你把他送到我这里来。”

‘That is well; but where and how shall I see you again?’
‘那就好；但我要在哪里、怎样才能再见到你呢？

‘Do you wish to see me again?’
“你想再见到我吗？”

‘Certainly.’
'当然。'

‘Well, let that care be mine, and be at ease.’
“好吧，就由我来照顾吧，放心吧。”

‘I depend upon your word.’
“我相信你的话。”

‘You may.’
'您可以。'

D’Artagnan bowed to Mme. Bonacieux, darting at her the most loving glance that he could possibly concentrate upon her charming little person; and while he descended the stairs, he heard the door closed and double-locked. In two bounds he was at the Louvre; as he entered the wicket of L’Echelle, ten o’clock struck. All the events we have described had taken place within a half hour.
达达尼昂向夫人鞠躬。博纳希厄用最慈爱的目光扫了她一眼，这是他能集中在她迷人的小个子身上的。当他走下楼梯时，他听到门关上并上了锁。他跑了两圈就到了卢浮宫；当他进入 L’Echelle 的检票口时，十点钟敲响了。我们所描述的所有事件都发生在半小时内。

Everything fell out as Mme. Bonacieux prophesied. On hearing the password, Germain bowed. In a few minutes, Laporte was at the lodge; in two words d’Artagnan informed him where Mme. Bonacieux was. Laporte assured himself, by having it twice repeated, of the accurate address, and set off at a run. Hardly, however, had he taken ten steps before he returned.
一切都失败了。博纳希厄预言道。听到口令后，热尔曼鞠了一躬。几分钟后，拉波特就到达了小屋。达达尼昂用两句话告诉他夫人在哪里。博纳西厄是。拉波尔特重复了两次，确信地址是准确的，然后出发跑步。然而刚走出十步，他就回来了。

‘Young man,’ said he to d’Artagnan, ‘a suggestion.’
“年轻人，”他对达达尼昂说，“一个建议。”

‘What?’
'什么？'

‘You may get into trouble by what has taken place.’
“发生的事情可能会给你带来麻烦。”

‘You believe so?’
“你相信吗？”

‘Yes. Have you any friend whose clock is too slow?’
'是的。你有朋友的时钟太慢了吗？

‘Well?’
'出色地？'

‘Go and call upon him, in order that he may give evidence of your having been with him at half past nine. In a court of justice that is called an alibi.’
“去拜访他，让他证明你九点半曾和他在一起。”在法庭上，这被称为不在场证明。

D’Artagnan found his advice prudent. He took to his heels, and was soon at M. de Treville’s; but instead of going into the saloon with the rest of the crowd, he asked to be introduced to M. de Treville’s office. As d’Artagnan so constantly frequented the hotel, no difficulty was made in complying with his request, and a servant went to inform M. de Treville that his young compatriot, having something important to communicate, solicited a private audience. Five minutes after, M. de Treville was asking d’Artagnan what he could do to serve him, and what caused his visit at so late an hour.
达达尼昂发现他的建议很谨慎。他紧随其后，很快就到了德·特雷维尔先生家。但他没有和其他人一起走进酒吧，而是要求被介绍到德特雷维尔先生的办公室。由于达达尼昂经常光顾这家旅馆，所以很容易满足他的要求，一名仆人去通知德特雷维尔先生，他的年轻同胞有重要的事情需要沟通，需要私人会见。五分钟后，德·特雷维尔先生问达达尼昂有什么可以为他服务的，以及是什么原因导致他来的这么晚。

‘Pardon me, monsieur,’ said d’Artagnan, who had profited by the moment he had been left alone to put back M. de Treville’s clock three-quarters of an hour, ‘but I thought, as it was yet only twenty-five minutes past nine, it was not too late to wait upon you.’
“请原谅，先生，”达达尼昂说，他趁着只剩下他一个人的时候，把德·特雷维尔先生的钟拨慢了四分之三小时，“但是我想，因为现在才二十——九点过五分，等你还不算太晚。

‘Twenty-five minutes past nine!’ cried M. de Treville, looking at the clock; ‘why, that’s impossible!’
“九点二十五分！”德特雷维尔先生看着时钟喊道。 “为什么，那是不可能的！”

‘Look, rather, monsieur,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘the clock shows it.’
“你看，先生，”达达尼昂说，“时钟显示了这一点。”

‘That’s true,’ said M. de Treville; ‘I believed it later. But what can I do for you?’
“确实如此，”德特雷维尔先生说。 ’后来我就相信了。但我能为你做什么呢？

Then d’Artagnan told M. de Treville a long history about the queen. He expressed to him the fears he entertained with respect to her Majesty; he related to him what he had heard of the projects of the cardinal with regard to Buckingham, and all with a tranquillity and candor of which M. de Treville was the more the dupe, from having himself, as we have said, observed something fresh between the cardinal, the king, and the queen.
然后达达尼昂向德特雷维尔先生讲述了关于王后的悠久历史。他向他表达了他对女王陛下的恐惧。他向他讲述了他所听到的红衣主教关于白金汉的计划，一切都平静而坦率，德特雷维尔先生更受骗了，因为正如我们所说，他自己观察到了一些新鲜的东西红衣主教、国王和王后之间。

As ten o’clock was striking, d’Artagnan left M. de Treville, who thanked him for his information, recommended him to have the service of the king and queen always at heart, and returned to the saloon; but at the foot of the stairs, d’Artagnan remembered he had forgotten his cane. He consequently sprang up again, re-entered the office, with a turn of his finger set the clock right again, that it might not be perceived the next day that it had been put wrong, and certain from that time that he had a witness to prove his alibi, he ran downstairs and soon found himself in the street.
十点钟敲响时，达达尼昂离开了德·特雷维尔先生，德·特雷维尔先生感谢他提供的信息，并建议他始终牢记为国王和王后服务，然后回到了客厅。但到了楼梯脚下，达达尼昂想起自己忘记带手杖了。于是他又跳了起来，重新进入办公室，用手指转动一下，又把时钟调正了，这样第二天就不会发现它被调错了，从那时起，他就可以肯定，他有一个证人。为了证明自己不在场，他跑下楼，很快就发现自己到了街上。

11 IN WHICH THE PLOT THICKENS
11 情节变得更加复杂

His visit to M. de Treville being paid, the pensive d’Artagnan took the longest way homeward.
拜访德特雷维尔先生之后，达达尼昂陷入沉思，走了最长的路回家。

On what was d’Artagnan thinking, that he strayed thus from his path, gazing at the stars of heaven, and sometimes sighing, sometimes smiling?
达达尼昂在想什么，他就这样偏离了自己的道路，凝视着天上的星星，时而叹息，时而微笑？

He was thinking of Mme. Bonacieux. For an apprentice Musketeer the young woman was almost an ideal of love. Pretty, mysterious, initiated in almost all the secrets of the court, which reflected such a charming gravity over her pleasing features, it might be surmised that she was not wholly unmoved; and this is an irresistible charm to novices in love. Moreover, d’Artagnan had delivered her from the hands of the demons who wished to search and ill treat her; and this important service had established between them one of those sentiments of gratitude which so easily assume a more tender character.
他在想夫人。博纳西厄。对于一个火枪手学徒来说，这位年轻女子几乎是爱情的理想。美丽、神秘，几乎知晓宫廷的所有秘密，这在她令人愉悦的容貌上反映出如此迷人的严肃，可以推测她并非完全无动于衷；而这对于恋爱新手来说，是一种难以抗拒的魅力。此外，达达尼昂还把她从那些想要搜查和虐待她的恶魔手中救了出来。这项重要的服务在他们之间建立了一种感激之情，这种感情很容易呈现出一种更加温柔的性格。

D’Artagnan already fancied himself, so rapid is the flight of our dreams upon the wings of imagination, accosted by a messenger from the young woman, who brought him some billet appointing a meeting, a gold chain, or a diamond. We have observed that young cavaliers received presents from their king without shame. Let us add that in these times of lax morality they had no more delicacy with respect to the mistresses; and that the latter almost always left them valuable and durable remembrances, as if they essayed to conquer the fragility of their sentiments by the solidity of their gifts.
达达尼昂已经幻想了自己，我们的梦想乘着想象的翅膀飞得如此之快，年轻女子的使者向他搭讪，她给他带来了一些约定会面的坯料、一条金链子或一颗钻石。我们观察到，年轻的骑士们毫无羞耻地接受国王的礼物。让我们补充一点，在这个道德松懈的时代，他们对情妇不再有温柔的态度。后者几乎总是给他们留下宝贵而持久的回忆，就好像他们试图用自己坚定的天赋来克服脆弱的情感一样。

Without a blush, men made their way in the world by the means of women blushing. Such as were only beautiful gave their beauty, whence, without doubt, comes the proverb, ‘The most beautiful girl in the world can only give what she has.’ Such as were rich gave in addition a part of their money; and a vast number of heroes of that gallant period may be cited who would neither have won their spurs in the first place, nor their battles afterward, without the purse, more or less furnished, which their mistress fastened to the saddle bow.
男人不脸红，就是靠女人脸红来闯荡世界的。只有美丽的人才能奉献自己的美丽，毫无疑问，这句谚语就是从这里而来的：“世界上最美丽的女孩只能奉献她所拥有的一切。”那个英勇时期的许多英雄都可以被引用，如果没有他们的情妇将钱包固定在马鞍弓上，他们首先就不会赢得他们的马刺，也不会赢得他们的战斗。

D’Artagnan owned nothing. Provincial diffidence, that slight varnish, the ephemeral flower, that down of the peach, had evaporated to the winds through the little orthodox counsels which the three Musketeers gave their friend. D’Artagnan, following the strange custom of the times, considered himself at Paris as on a campaign, neither more nor less than if he had been in Flanders—Spain yonder, woman here. In each there was an enemy to contend with, and contributions to be levied.
达达尼昂一无所有。外省人的羞怯，那淡淡的清漆，那短暂的花朵，那桃子上的花，已经通过三个火枪手给他们的朋友的正统的小建议而消失在风中。达达尼昂遵循当时奇怪的习俗，认为自己在巴黎就像是在一场战役，就像他在佛兰德斯一样——那边是西班牙，女人在这里。每一个地方都有一个敌人需要对抗，并且需要缴纳捐款。

But, we must say, at the present moment d’Artagnan was ruled by a feeling much more noble and disinterested. The mercer had said that he was rich; the young man might easily guess that with so weak a man as M. Bonacieux; and interest was almost foreign to this commencement of love, which had been the consequence of it. We say ALMOST, for the idea that a young, handsome, kind, and witty woman is at the same time rich takes nothing from the beginning of love, but on the contrary strengthens it.
但是，我们必须说，目前达达尼昂的情绪更加高尚和公正。商人说他很有钱；对于像博纳西厄先生这样软弱的人来说，年轻人很容易猜到这一点。兴趣对于爱情的开始几乎是陌生的，爱情是爱情的结果。我们说“几乎”，是因为“年轻、英俊、善良、机智的女人同时又富有”的想法从爱情之初就没有任何好处，相反反而强化了爱情。

There are in affluence a crowd of aristocratic cares and caprices which are highly becoming to beauty. A fine and white stocking, a silken robe, a lace kerchief, a pretty slipper on the foot, a tasty ribbon on the head do not make an ugly woman pretty, but they make a pretty woman beautiful, without reckoning the hands, which gain by all this; the hands, among women particularly, to be beautiful must be idle.
富裕中存在着一群与美丽非常相称的贵族关怀和任性。一件细白的丝袜，一件丝袍，一条花边头巾，脚上一双漂亮的拖鞋，头上一条可口的丝带，并不能使一个丑女人变得漂亮，但却使一个漂亮女人变得美丽，不计双手，通过这一切；双手，尤其是女性，要想美丽就必须闲着。

Then d’Artagnan, as the reader, from whom we have not concealed the state of his fortune, very well knows—d’Artagnan was not a millionaire; he hoped to become one someday, but the time which in his own mind he fixed upon for this happy change was still far distant. In the meanwhile, how disheartening to see the woman one loves long for those thousands of nothings which constitute a woman’s happiness, and be unable to give her those thousands of nothings. At least, when the woman is rich and the lover is not, that which he cannot offer she offers to herself; and although it is generally with her husband’s money that she procures herself this indulgence, the gratitude for it seldom reverts to him.
那么，达达尼昂，作为读者，我们没有向他隐瞒他的财产状况，他非常清楚——达达尼昂不是百万富翁；他是一位百万富翁。他希望有一天能成为这样的人，但他自己认为实现这种幸福改变的时间还很遥远。同时，看到自己所爱的女人渴望着构成女人幸福的那万千的虚无，却又无法给予她那万千的虚无，这是多么令人沮丧啊。至少，当女人富有而情人不富有时，他不能提供的东西她可以提供给自己；虽然她通常是用丈夫的钱来获得这种放纵，但对此的感激之情却很少回到他身上。

Then d’Artagnan, disposed to become the most tender of lovers, was at the same time a very devoted friend, In the midst of his amorous projects for the mercer’s wife, he did not forget his friends. The pretty Mme. Bonacieux was just the woman to walk with in the Plain St. Denis or in the fair of St. Germain, in company with Athos, Porthos, and Aramis, to whom d’Artagnan had often remarked this. Then one could enjoy charming little dinners, where one touches on one side the hand of a friend, and on the other the foot of a mistress. Besides, on pressing occasions, in extreme difficulties, d’Artagnan would become the preserver of his friends.
然后，达达尼昂，倾向于成为最温柔的情人，同时也是一个非常忠诚的朋友，在他对商人妻子的多情计划中，他没有忘记他的朋友们。漂亮的Mme.博纳希厄正是在圣但尼平原或圣日耳曼集市上与阿托斯、波尔托斯和阿拉米斯同行的女人，达达尼昂经常向他们提到这一点。然后，人们可以享受迷人的小晚餐，其中一个人一侧触摸朋友的手，另一侧触摸情妇的脚。此外，在紧急情况下，在极端困难的时候，达达尼昂会成为他朋友的保护者。

And M. Bonacieux? whom d’Artagnan had pushed into the hands of the officers, denying him aloud although he had promised in a whisper to save him. We are compelled to admit to our readers that d’Artagnan thought nothing about him in any way; or that if he did think of him, it was only to say to himself that he was very well where he was, wherever it might be. Love is the most selfish of all the passions.
博纳西厄先生呢？达达尼昂将他推入军官手中，军官们大声否认，尽管他低声答应要救他。我们不得不向我们的读者承认，达达尼昂对他没有任何想法。或者说，如果他真的想起了他，也只是对自己说，无论他在哪里，他都过得很好。爱情是所有激情中最自私的。

Let our readers reassure themselves. IF d’Artagnan forgets his host, or appears to forget him, under the pretense of not knowing where he has been carried, we will not forget him, and we know where he is. But for the moment, let us do as did the amorous Gascon; we will see after the worthy mercer later.
让我们的读者放心吧。如果达达尼昂忘记了他的主人，或者假装不知道他被带到哪里，似乎忘记了他，我们就不会忘记他，我们也知道他在哪里。但现在，让我们像多情的加斯科尼人那样做吧；我们稍后会看到这位值得尊敬的默瑟。

D’Artagnan, reflecting on his future amours, addressing himself to the beautiful night, and smiling at the stars, ascended the Rue Cherish-Midi, or Chase-Midi, as it was then called. As he found himself in the quarter in which Aramis lived, he took it into his head to pay his friend a visit in order to explain the motives which had led him to send Planchet with a request that he would come instantly to the mousetrap. Now, if Aramis had been at home when Planchet came to his abode, he had doubtless hastened to the Rue des Fossoyeurs, and finding nobody there but his other two companions perhaps, they would not be able to conceive what all this meant. This mystery required an explanation; at least, so d’Artagnan declared to himself.
达达尼昂一边回想自己未来的恋情，一边向美丽的夜晚致意，一边对着星星微笑，登上了当时被称为“蔡斯·米迪”的切里什·米迪街。当他发现自己身处阿拉米斯居住的街区时，他想到要去拜访他的朋友，以解释他派普兰切特请求他立即前往捕鼠器的动机。现在，如果普兰切特来到他的住处时阿拉米斯在家，他无疑已经赶到了福索耶尔街，发现那里除了他的另外两个同伴之外没有人，他们将无法想象这一切意味着什么。这个谜团需要一个解释；至少，达达尼昂对自己如此宣称。

He likewise thought this was an opportunity for talking about pretty little Mme. Bonacieux, of whom his head, if not his heart, was already full. We must never look for discretion in first love. First love is accompanied by such excessive joy that unless the joy be allowed to overflow, it will stifle you.
他还认为这是一个谈论漂亮小夫人的机会。博纳希厄的脑子里已经充满了他，如果不是他的心的话，也已经充满了他。我们决不能在初恋中寻求谨慎。初恋总是伴随着过度的快乐，除非让快乐溢出来，否则它会窒息你。

Paris for two hours past had been dark, and seemed a desert. Eleven o’clock sounded from all the clocks of the Faubourg St. Germain. It was delightful weather. D’Artagnan was passing along a lane on the spot where the Rue d’Assas is now situated, breathing the balmy emanations which were borne upon the wind from the Rue de Vaugirard, and which arose from the gardens refreshed by the dews of evening and the breeze of night. From a distance resounded, deadened, however, by good shutters, the songs of the tipplers, enjoying themselves in the cabarets scattered along the plain. Arrived at the end of the lane, d’Artagnan turned to the left. The house in which Aramis dwelt was situated between the Rue Cassette and the Rue Servandoni.
过去两个小时，巴黎一直漆黑一片，看上去就像一片沙漠。圣日耳曼郊区的所有时钟都敲响了十一点钟声。天气宜人。达达尼昂正沿着阿萨斯街现在所在位置的一条小巷走过，呼吸着从沃吉拉尔街吹来的风带来的温和的气息，这些气息是从被傍晚和清晨的露水清新的花园中升起的。夜风。从远处传来的，是酒鬼们在散布在平原上的歌舞厅里尽情享受的歌声，但由于百叶窗关得很好，所以变得沉闷起来。到达小巷尽头后，达达尼昂向左转。阿拉米斯居住的房子位于卡塞特街和塞尔万多尼街之间。

D’Artagnan had just passed the Rue Cassette, and already perceived the door of his friend’s house, shaded by a mass of sycamores and clematis which formed a vast arch opposite the front of it, when he perceived something like a shadow issuing from the Rue Servandoni. This something was enveloped in a cloak, and d’Artagnan at first believed it was a man; but by the smallness of the form, the hesitation of the walk, and the indecision of the step, he soon discovered that it was a woman. Further, this woman, as if not certain of the house she was seeking, lifted up her eyes to look around her, stopped, went backward, and then returned again. D’Artagnan was perplexed.
达达尼昂刚刚经过卡塞特街，已经看到了他朋友家的门，门前被一大片悬铃木和铁线莲遮蔽，在门前形成了一个巨大的拱门，这时他发现有一个像影子一样的东西从街里出来塞尔万多尼。这个东西包裹在一件斗篷里，达达尼昂起初以为它是一个人；但后来他发现了这个东西。但从那身影的渺小、脚步的犹豫、脚步的犹豫，他很快就发现那是一个女人。而这个女人，仿佛不确定自己要找的房子，抬起眼睛环顾四周，停下来，向后退去，然后又回来了。达达尼昂很困惑。

‘Shall I go and offer her my services?’ thought he. ‘By her step she must be young; perhaps she is pretty. Oh, yes! But a woman who wanders in the streets at this hour only ventures out to meet her lover. If I should disturb a rendezvous, that would not be the best means of commencing an acquaintance.’
“我应该去为她提供服务吗？”他想。 “从她的脚步来看，她一定很年轻；也许她很漂亮。哦是的！但这个时候在街上闲逛的女人，只是冒险出去见她的情人。如果我打扰了一次约会，那并不是结识的最好方式。

Meantime the young woman continued to advance, counting the houses and windows. This was neither long nor difficult. There were but three hotels in this part of the street; and only two windows looking toward the road, one of which was in a pavilion parallel to that which Aramis occupied, the other belonging to Aramis himself.
与此同时，年轻女子继续前进，数着房屋和窗户。这既不长也不困难。这条街上只有三家旅馆；只有两扇窗户面向道路，其中一扇位于与阿拉米斯所在的平行的凉亭中，另一扇属于阿拉米斯本人。

‘PARIDIEU!’ said d’Artagnan to himself, to whose mind the niece of the theologian reverted, ‘PARDIEU, it would be droll if this belated dove should be in search of our friend’s house. But on my soul, it looks so. Ah, my dear Aramis, this time I shall find you out.’ And d’Artagnan, making himself as small as he could, concealed himself in the darkest side of the street near a stone bench placed at the back of a niche.
“帕里迪厄！”达达尼昂自言自语道，神学家的侄女又想起了他的想法，“帕里迪厄，如果这只迟到的鸽子去寻找我们朋友的房子，那就太滑稽了。”但在我的灵魂看来，确实如此。啊，我亲爱的阿拉米斯，这次我会找到你的。”达达尼昂尽可能地把自己缩小，躲在街道最黑暗的一侧，靠近壁龛后面的一张石凳。

The young woman continued to advance; and in addition to the lightness of her step, which had betrayed her, she emitted a little cough which denoted a sweet voice. D’Artagnan believed this cough to be a signal.
年轻女子继续前进。除了她的脚步轻盈外，她还发出一声轻微的咳嗽，这表明她的声音很甜美。达达尼昂认为这种咳嗽是一个信号。

Nevertheless, whether the cough had been answered by a similar signal which had fixed the irresolution of the nocturnal seeker, or whether without this aid she saw that she had arrived at the end of her journey, she resolutely drew near to Aramis’s shutter, and tapped, at three equal intervals, with her bent finger.
尽管如此，无论咳嗽是否已经得到了类似的信号的回应，从而解决了夜间探索者的犹豫不决的问题，或者如果没有这种帮助，她是否看到自己已经到达了旅程的终点​​，她毅然地走近阿拉米斯的百叶窗，并轻敲了一下。 ，以三个相等的间隔，用她弯曲的手指。

‘This is all very fine, dear Aramis,’ murmured d’Artagnan. ‘Ah, Monsieur Hypocrite, I understand how you study theology.’
“这一切都很好，亲爱的阿拉米斯，”达达尼昂低声说道。 “啊，伪君子先生，我明白你是如何学习神学的。”

The three blows were scarcely struck, when the inside blind was opened and a light appeared through the panes of the outside shutter.
三击刚打完，里面的百叶窗就打开了，一道光从外面的百叶窗的玻璃中透了进来。

‘Ah, ah!’ said the listener, ‘not through doors, but through windows! Ah, this visit was expected. We shall see the windows open, and the lady enter by escalade. Very pretty!’
“啊啊！”听者说道，“不是从门，而是从窗户！”啊，这次访问是预料之中的。我们将看到窗户打开，那位女士乘梯进入。很漂亮！'

But to the great astonishment of d’Artagnan, the shutter remained closed. Still more, the light which had shone for an instant disappeared, and all was again in obscurity.
但令达达尼昂大吃一惊的是，百叶窗仍然关着。更何况，那一瞬间的光芒消失了，一切再次陷入了朦胧之中。

D’Artagnan thought this could not last long, and continued to look with all his eyes and listen with all his ears.
达达尼昂认为这种情况不会持续太久，于是继续用眼睛看，用耳朵听。

He was right; at the end of some seconds two sharp taps were heard inside. The young woman in the street replied by a single tap, and the shutter was opened a little way.
他是对的;几秒钟后，里面传来两声尖锐的敲击声。街上的年轻女子轻轻一按，百叶窗就被打开了一点。

It may be judged whether d’Artagnan looked or listened with avidity. Unfortunately the light had been removed into another chamber; but the eyes of the young man were accustomed to the night. Besides, the eyes of the Gascons have, as it is asserted, like those of cats, the faculty of seeing in the dark.
可以通过达达尼昂是否热切地观看或聆听来判断。不幸的是，灯被移到了另一个房间里。但年轻人的眼睛已经习惯了夜晚。此外，据说加斯科尼人的眼睛像猫一样，具有在黑暗中看见东西的能力。

D’Artagnan then saw that the young woman took from her pocket a white object, which she unfolded quickly, and which took the form of a handkerchief. She made her interlocutor observe the corner of this unfolded object.
达达尼昂随后看到年轻女子从口袋里掏出一个白色物体，她迅速展开，它呈手帕的形状。她让对话者观察这个展开物体的一角。

This immediately recalled to d’Artagnan’s mind the handkerchief which he had found at the feet of Mme. Bonacieux, which had reminded him of that which he had dragged from under the feet of Aramis.
这立刻让达达尼昂想起了他在夫人脚下发现的那块手帕。博纳希厄，这让他想起了他从阿拉米斯脚下拖出来的东西。

‘What the devil could that handkerchief signify?’
“那块手帕究竟代表什么？”

Placed where he was, d’Artagnan could not perceive the face of Aramis. We say Aramis, because the young man entertained no doubt that it was his friend who held this dialogue from the interior with the lady of the exterior. Curiosity prevailed over prudence; and profiting by the preoccupation into which the sight of the handkerchief appeared to have plunged the two personages now on the scene, he stole from his hiding place, and quick as lightning, but stepping with utmost caution, he ran and placed himself close to the angle of the wall, from which his eye could pierce the interior of Aramis’s room.
达达尼昂站在原地，看不到阿拉米斯的脸。我们说阿拉米斯，因为年轻人毫无疑问地认为是他的朋友从内部与外部女士进行了对话。好奇心战胜了谨慎。手帕的出现似乎让现场的两个人陷入了全神贯注的境地，他从藏身之处偷偷溜了出来，速度快如闪电，但迈着极其谨慎的步伐，他跑到靠近那人的地方。墙壁的角度，从这个角度他的眼睛可以透视阿拉米斯房间的内部。

Upon gaining this advantage d’Artagnan was near uttering a cry of surprise; it was not Aramis who was conversing with the nocturnal visitor, it was a woman! D’Artagnan, however, could only see enough to recognize the form of her vestments, not enough to distinguish her features.
获得这一优势后，达达尼昂差点惊呼一声。与夜行者交谈的不是阿拉米斯，而是一个女人！然而，达达尼昂的视力只能辨认出她法衣的形状，不足以辨别她的特征。

At the same instant the woman inside drew a second handkerchief from her pocket, and exchanged it for that which had just been shown to her. Then some words were spoken by the two women. At length the shutter closed. The woman who was outside the window turned round, and passed within four steps of d’Artagnan, pulling down the hood of her mantle; but the precaution was too late, d’Artagnan had already recognized Mme. Bonacieux.
与此同时，里面的女人从口袋里掏出第二块手帕，把它换成了刚才给她看的那块手帕。随后，两个女人说了几句话。百叶窗终于关上了。窗外的女人转过身来，走到距离达达尼昂不到四步的地方，拉下了斗篷的兜帽。但预防措施为时已晚，达达尼昂已经认出了夫人。博纳西厄。

Mme. Bonacieux! The suspicion that it was she had crossed the mind of d’Artagnan when she drew the handkerchief from her pocket; but what probability was there that Mme. Bonacieux, who had sent for M. Laporte in order to be reconducted to the Louvre, should be running about the streets of Paris at half past eleven at night, at the risk of being abducted a second time?
女士。博纳西厄！当达达尼昂从口袋里掏出手帕时，她就怀疑是她干的。但女士的可能性有多大？博纳希厄派人去叫拉波尔特先生以便被带回卢浮宫，他应该在晚上十一点半在巴黎的街道上奔跑，冒着第二次被绑架的危险吗？

This must be, then, an affair of importance; and what is the most important affair to a woman of twenty-five! Love.
那么，这必定是一件重要的事情。对于一个二十五岁的女人来说，最重要的事情是什么！爱。

But was it on her own account, or on account of another, that she exposed herself to such hazards? This was a question the young man asked himself, whom the demon of jealousy already gnawed, being in heart neither more nor less than an accepted lover.
但她到底是为了自己，还是为了别人，才让自己陷入这样的危险之中呢？这是年轻人问自己的问题，嫉妒的恶魔已经啃噬着他，他的内心既是一个公认的情人。

There was a very simple means of satisfying himself whither Mme. Bonacieux was going; that was to follow her. This method was so simple that d’Artagnan employed it quite naturally and instinctively.
夫人有一个很简单的方法可以让他满足。博纳西厄要走了；那就是跟着她。这种方法非常简单，达达尼昂非常自然而本能地使用了它。

But at the sight of the young man, who detached himself from the wall like a statue walking from its niche, and at the noise of the steps which she heard resound behind her, Mme. Bonacieux uttered a little cry and fled.
但是，一看到这个年轻人，他就像一尊雕像从壁龛里走出来一样，从墙上脱离了出来，一看到她听到身后响起的脚步声，夫人。博纳希厄发出一声小叫，然后逃跑了。

D’Artagnan ran after her. It was not difficult for him to overtake a woman embarrassed with her cloak. He came up with her before she had traversed a third of the street. The unfortunate woman was exhausted, not by fatigue, but by terror, and when d’Artagnan placed his hand upon her shoulder, she sank upon one knee, crying in a choking voice, ‘Kill me, if you please, you shall know nothing!’
达达尼昂追赶她。对他来说，追上一个因斗篷而尴尬的女人并不困难。她还没走过三分之一的街道，他就追上了她。这个不幸的女人精疲力竭，不是因为疲劳，而是因为恐惧，当达达尼昂把手放在她肩上时，她单膝跪下，声音哽咽地哭喊着：“杀了我吧，如果你愿意的话，你将一无所知。” ！'

D’Artagnan raised her by passing his arm round her waist; but as he felt by her weight she was on the point of fainting, he made haste to reassure her by protestations of devotedness. These protestations were nothing for Mme. Bonacieux, for such protestations may be made with the worst intentions in the world; but the voice was all. Mme. Bonacieux thought she recognized the sound of that voice; she reopened her eyes, cast a quick glance upon the man who had terrified her so, and at once perceiving it was d’Artagnan, she uttered a cry of joy, ‘Oh, it is you, it is you! Thank God, thank God!’
达达尼昂用手臂搂住她的腰，把她扶了起来。但当他感觉到她的体重时，她快要晕倒了，他赶紧用忠诚的声明来安抚她。这些抗议对夫人来说毫无意义。博纳西厄，因为这种抗议可能是出于世界上最坏的意图；但声音就是一切。女士。博纳希厄认为她认出了那个声音。她重新睁开眼睛，飞快地看了一眼那个让她如此害怕的男人，立刻意识到那是达达尼昂，她高兴地喊道：“噢，是你，是你！”感谢上帝，感谢上帝！

‘Yes, it is I,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘it is I, whom God has sent to watch over you.’
“是的，是我，”达达尼昂说，“是我，上帝派来守护你的。”

‘Was it with that intention you followed me?’ asked the young woman, with a coquettish smile, whose somewhat bantering character resumed its influence, and with whom all fear had disappeared from the moment in which she recognized a friend in one she had taken for an enemy.
“你跟着我就是为了这个目的吗？”年轻女子带着妖艳的微笑问道，她那有点戏谑的性格又恢复了影响力，从她认出她所带的朋友的那一刻起，所有的恐惧都消失了。对于一个敌人。

‘No,’ said d’Artagnan; ‘no, I confess it. It was chance that threw me in your way; I saw a woman knocking at the window of one of my friends.’
“不，”达达尼昂说。 ‘不，我承认。是偶然让我挡住了你的路；我看到一个女人在敲我一个朋友的窗户。

‘One of your friends?’ interrupted Mme. Bonacieux.
“你的一个朋友？”夫人打断道。博纳西厄。

‘Without doubt; Aramis is one of my best friends.’
'毫无疑问;阿拉米斯是我最好的朋友之一。

‘Aramis! Who is he?’
‘阿拉米斯！他是谁？'

‘Come, come, you won’t tell me you don’t know Aramis?’
“得了，得了，你不会告诉我你不认识阿拉米斯吧？”

‘This is the first time I ever heard his name pronounced.’
“这是我第一次听到他的名字被发音。”

‘It is the first time, then, that you ever went to that house?’
“那么，这是你第一次去那所房子吗？”

‘Undoubtedly.’
'无疑。'

‘And you did not know that it was inhabited by a young man?’
“你不知道里面住着一个年轻人吗？”

‘No.’
'不。'

‘By a Musketeer?’
“由火枪手所为？”

‘No, indeed!’
“不，确实如此！”

‘It was not he, then, you came to seek?’
“那么，你不是来找他的吗？”

‘Not the least in the world. Besides, you must have seen that the person to whom I spoke was a woman.’
'这在世界上并不是最不重要的。而且，你一定也看到了，跟我说话的人是个女人。”

‘That is true; but this woman is a friend of Aramis—‘
'那是真实的;但这女人是阿拉米斯的朋友——”

‘I know nothing of that.’
“我对此一无所知。”

‘—since she lodges with him.’
“——因为她和他住在一起。”

‘That does not concern me.’
“这与我无关。”

‘But who is she?’
“但是她是谁？”

‘Oh, that is not my secret.’
“哦，这不是我的秘密。”

‘My dear Madame Bonacieux, you are charming; but at the same time you are one of the most mysterious women.’
“我亲爱的博纳瑟夫人，你很迷人；但同时你也是最神秘的女性之一。”

‘Do I lose by that?’
“这样我就输了吗？”

‘No; you are, on the contrary, adorable.’
'不;相反，你很可爱。

‘Give me your arm, then.’
“那么，把你的手臂给我。”

‘Most willingly. And now?’
‘非常愿意。现在？'

‘Now escort me.’
“现在护送我。”

‘Where?’
'在哪里？'

‘Where I am going.’
“我要去哪里。”

‘But where are you going?’
“但是你要去哪里？”

‘You will see, because you will leave me at the door.’
“你会看到的，因为你会把我留在门口。”

‘Shall I wait for you?’
“我等你吗？”

‘That will be useless.’
“那是没用的。”

‘You will return alone, then?’
“那么你会一个人回来吗？”

‘Perhaps yes, perhaps no.’
“也许是，也许不是。”

‘But will the person who shall accompany you afterward be a man or a woman?’
“但是以后陪你的人是男人还是女人呢？”

‘I don’t know yet.’
“我还不知道。”

‘But I will know it!’
“但我会知道的！”

‘How so?’
'为何如此？'

‘I will wait until you come out.’
“我会等你出来。”

‘In that case, adieu.’
“既然如此，那就再见了。”

‘Why so?’
'为什么这样？'

‘I do not want you.’
'我不想要你。'

‘But you have claimed—‘
“但你声称——”

‘The aid of a gentleman, not the watchfulness of a spy.’
“绅士的帮助，而不是间谍的警惕。”

‘The word is rather hard.’
“这个词相当难。”

‘How are they called who follow others in spite of them?’
“那些不顾他人而追随他人的人怎么称呼？”

‘They are indiscreet.’
“他们不检点。”

‘The word is too mild.’
“这个词太温和了。”

‘Well, madame, I perceive I must do as you wish.’
“好吧，夫人，我想我必须按您的意愿行事。”

‘Why did you deprive yourself of the merit of doing so at once?’
“你为什么要立刻剥夺自己这样做的好处呢？”

‘Is there no merit in repentance?’
“悔改没有什么好处吗？”

‘And do you really repent?’
“那你真的悔改了吗？”

‘I know nothing about it myself. But what I know is that I promise to do all you wish if you allow me to accompany you where you are going.’
‘我自己对此一无所知。但我知道的是，如果你允许我陪你去你要去的地方，我保证会做你想做的一切。

‘And you will leave me then?’
“那么你就会离开我吗？”

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘Without waiting for my coming out again?’
“不等我再出来吗？”

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘Word of honor?’
“荣誉的话？”

‘By the faith of a gentleman. Take my arm, and let us go.’
‘以君子之信。抓住我的手臂，让我们走吧。

D’Artagnan offered his arm to Mme. Bonacieux, who willingly took it, half laughing, half trembling, and both gained the top of Rue de la Harpe. Arriving there, the young woman seemed to hesitate, as she had before done in the Rue Vaugirard. She seemed, however, by certain signs, to recognize a door, and approaching that door, ‘And now, monsieur,’ said she, ‘it is here I have business; a thousand thanks for your honorable company, which has saved me from all the dangers to which, alone I was exposed. But the moment is come to keep your word; I have reached my destination.’
达达尼昂向夫人伸出手臂。博纳希厄欣然接受，半笑半颤，两人登上了拉哈普街的顶峰。到达那里后，这位年轻女子似乎犹豫了，就像她之前在沃吉拉尔街所做的那样。然而，从某些迹象来看，她似乎认出了一扇门，便走近那扇门，“现在，先生，”她说，“我在这里有事；我有事要处理。”一千次感谢您的光荣陪伴，使我摆脱了我独自面临的所有危险。但兑现诺言的时刻到了；我已经到达目的地了。

‘And you will have nothing to fear on your return?’
“你回来后就没有什么可担心的了？”

‘I shall have nothing to fear but robbers.’
“除了强盗，我什么都不怕。”

‘And that is nothing?’
“那没什么？”

‘What could they take from me? I have not a penny about me.’
‘他们能从我这里拿走什么？我身上一分钱都没有。

‘You forget that beautiful handkerchief with the coat of arms.’
“你忘记了那块带有徽章的漂亮手帕。”

‘Which?’
'哪个？'

‘That which I found at your feet, and replaced in your pocket.’
“我在你脚边发现的，然后放在你口袋里的。”

‘Hold your tongue, imprudent man! Do you wish to destroy me?’
‘闭嘴吧，鲁莽的人！你想毁掉我吗？

‘You see very plainly that there is still danger for you, since a single word makes you tremble; and you confess that if that word were heard you would be ruined. Come, come, madame!’ cried d’Artagnan, seizing her hands, and surveying her with an ardent glance, ‘come, be more generous. Confide in me. Have you not read in my eyes that there is nothing but devotion and sympathy in my heart?’
‘你看得很清楚，你仍然有危险，因为一句话就让你颤抖；你承认如果这个词被听到你就会毁掉。来吧，来吧，夫人！”达达尼昂喊道，抓住她的双手，用热切的目光打量着她，“来吧，慷慨一点。相信我。难道你没有从我的眼神中看出我心中除了奉献和同情之外什么都没有吗？

‘Yes,’ replied Mme. Bonacieux; ‘therefore, ask my own secrets, and I will reveal them to you; but those of others—that is quite another thing.’
“是的，”夫人回答道。博纳西厄； ‘因此，询问我自己的秘密，我会把它们透露给你；但其他人的——那就是另一回事了。”

‘Very well,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘I shall discover them; as these secrets may have an influence over your life, these secrets must become mine.’
“很好，”达达尼昂说，“我会发现它们的；因为这些秘密可能会影响你的生活，所以这些秘密必须属于我。

‘Beware of what you do!’ cried the young woman, in a manner so serious as to make d’Artagnan start in spite of himself. ‘Oh, meddle in nothing which concerns me. Do not seek to assist me in that which I am accomplishing. This I ask of you in the name of the interest with which I inspire you, in the name of the service you have rendered me and which I never shall forget while I have life. Rather, place faith in what I tell you. Have no more concern about me; I exist no longer for you, any more than if you had never seen me.’
“当心你的所作所为！”年轻女子大声喊道，她的语气严肃得让达达尼昂不由自主地吃了一惊。 ‘哦，别插手任何与我有关的事情。不要寻求帮助我完成我正在完成的事情。我以我激发你的兴趣的名义向你提出这一要求，以你为我提供的服务的名义，而我在有生之年永远不会忘记这一点。相反，相信我告诉你的话。不要再关心我；我不再为你而存在，就像你从未见过我一样。

‘Must Aramis do as much as I, madame?’ said d’Artagnan, deeply piqued.
“夫人，阿拉米斯必须像我一样做吗？”达达尼昂非常生气地说。

‘This is the second or third time, monsieur, that you have repeated that name, and yet I have told you that I do not know him.’
“先生，这已经是你第二次或第三次重复这个名字了，但我已经告诉你我不认识他了。”

‘You do not know the man at whose shutter you have just knocked? Indeed, madame, you believe me too credulous!’
‘你不认识你刚刚敲过百叶窗的那个人吗？确实，夫人，您太相信我了！”

‘Confess that it is for the sake of making me talk that you invent this story and create this personage.’
“承认你是为了让我说话才编造这个故事并创造这个人物的。”

‘I invent nothing, madame; I create nothing. I only speak that exact truth.’
“我什么也没发明，夫人；我什么也没创造。我只说实话。

‘And you say that one of your friends lives in that house?’
“你说你的一个朋友住在那所房子里？”

‘I say so, and I repeat it for the third time; that house is one inhabited by my friend, and that friend is Aramis.’
‘我这么说，而且我重复了第三次；那栋房子是我朋友住的，那个朋友就是阿拉米斯。

‘All this will be cleared up at a later period,’ murmured the young woman; ‘no, monsieur, be silent.’
“这一切都将在稍后的时间里得到澄清。”年轻女子低声说道。 “不，先生，保持安静。”

‘If you could see my heart,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘you would there read so much curiosity that you would pity me and so much love that you would instantly satisfy my curiosity. We have nothing to fear from those who love us.’
“如果你能看到我的心，”达达尼昂说，“你就会在那里读到如此多的好奇心，以至于你会怜悯我，也会读到如此多的爱，以至于你会立即满足我的好奇心。对于那些爱我们的人，我们没有什么可害怕的。

‘You speak very suddenly of love, monsieur,’ said the young woman, shaking her head.
“先生，你突然谈到爱情，”年轻女子摇着头说道。

‘That is because love has come suddenly upon me, and for the first time; and because I am only twenty.’
“那是因为爱情突然降临到我身上，而且是第一次；因为我只有二十岁。

The young woman looked at him furtively.
少妇偷偷地看着他。

‘Listen; I am already upon the scent,’ resumed d’Artagnan. ‘About three months ago I was near having a duel with Aramis concerning a handkerchief resembling the one you showed to the woman in his house—for a handkerchief marked in the same manner, I am sure.’
'听;我已经闻到了气味。”达达尼昂继续说道。 “大约三个月前，我差点和阿拉米斯就一块手帕与你向他家里的女人展示的相似的手帕进行决斗——我确信，这是一块以同样方式标记的手帕。”

‘Monsieur,’ said the young woman, ‘you weary me very much, I assure you, with your questions.’
“先生，”年轻女子说道，“我向你保证，你的问题让我非常厌烦。”

‘But you, madame, prudent as you are, think, if you were to be arrested with that handkerchief, and that handkerchief were to be seized, would you not be compromised?’
“但是，女士，尽管您很谨慎，但您想一想，如果您因那块手帕而被捕，并且那块手帕被没收，您不会受到损害吗？”

‘In what way? The initials are only mine—C. B., Constance Bonacieux.’
‘以什么方式？缩写是我的——C. B.，康斯坦斯·博纳西厄。”

‘Or Camille de Bois-Tracy.’
“或者卡米尔·德·布瓦-特蕾西。”

‘Silence, monsieur! Once again, silence! Ah, since the dangers I incur on my own account cannot stop you, think of those you may yourself run!’
“安静，先生！再次，寂静无声！啊，既然我自己招致的危险无法阻止你，那就想想你自己可能会遇到的危险吧！

‘Me?’
'我？'

‘Yes; there is peril of imprisonment, risk of life in knowing me.’
'是的;认识我有被监禁的危险，有生命的危险。”

‘Then I will not leave you.’
“那我不会离开你。”

‘Monsieur!’ said the young woman, supplicating him and clasping her hands together, ‘monsieur, in the name of heaven, by the honor of a soldier, by the courtesy of a gentleman, depart! There, there midnight sounds! That is the hour when I am expected.’
“先生！”年轻女子双手合十，恳求道，“先生，以老天之名，以军人的荣誉，以绅士的礼貌，走吧！”那里，有午夜的声音！那正是我期待的时刻。

‘Madame,’ said the young man, bowing; ‘I can refuse nothing asked of me thus. Be content; I will depart.’
“女士，”年轻人鞠躬说道。 ‘我不能拒绝任何对我的要求。知足;我会离开。

‘But you will not follow me; you will not watch me?’
‘但你不肯跟随我；你不看我吗？

‘I will return home instantly.’
“我会立即回家。”

‘Ah, I was quite sure you were a good and brave young man,’ said Mme. Bonacieux, holding out her hand to him, and placing the other upon the knocker of a little door almost hidden in the wall.
“啊，我确信你是一个善良而勇敢的年轻人，”夫人说。博纳希厄向他伸出一只手，另一只手放在几乎隐藏在墙里的小门的门环上。

D’Artagnan seized the hand held out to him, and kissed it ardently.
达达尼昂抓住向他伸出的手，热烈地吻了一下。

‘Ah! I wish I had never seen you!’ cried d’Artagnan, with that ingenuous roughness which women often prefer to the affectations of politeness, because it betrays the depths of the thought and proves that feeling prevails over reason.
'啊！ “我希望我从来没有见过你！”达达尼昂大声喊道，语气里带着女人常常喜欢的那种天真粗暴，而不是矫揉造作的礼貌，因为它暴露了思想的深度，证明了感情战胜了理智。

‘Well!’ resumed Mme. Bonacieux, in a voice almost caressing, and pressing the hand of d’Artagnan, who had not relinquished hers, ‘well: I will not say as much as you do; what is lost for today may not be lost forever. Who knows, when I shall be at liberty, that I may not satisfy your curiosity?’
“好吧！”夫人继续说道。博纳希厄用一种近乎爱抚的声音，握住达达尼昂的手，达达尼昂还没有放开她的手，“好吧，我不会说你说的那么多；我不会说太多。”今天失去的也许不会永远失去。谁知道，当我获得自由时，我会不会满足你的好奇心呢？

‘And will you make the same promise to my love?’ cried d’Artagnan, beside himself with joy.
“你愿意对我的爱人做出同样的承诺吗？”达达尼昂高兴得发狂地喊道。

‘Oh, as to that, I do not engage myself. That depends upon the sentiments with which you may inspire me.’
‘哦，至于这个，我不参与。这取决于你能激发我的情感。

‘Then today, madame—‘
“那么今天，夫人——”

‘Oh, today, I am no further than gratitude.’
“哦，今天，我只是感激而已。”

‘Ah! You are too charming,’ said d’Artagnan, sorrowfully; ‘and you abuse my love.’
'啊！你太迷人了，”达达尼昂悲伤地说。 “你滥用了我的爱。”

‘No, I use your generosity, that’s all. But be of good cheer; with certain people, everything comes round.’
‘不，我只是利用你的慷慨，仅此而已。但要高兴起来；对于某些人来说，一切都会发生。

‘Oh, you render me the happiest of men! Do not forget this evening—do not forget that promise.’
‘哦，你使我成为最幸福的人！不要忘记今晚——不要忘记那个承诺。”

‘Be satisfied. In the proper time and place I will remember everything. Now then, go, go, in the name of heaven! I was expected at sharp midnight, and I am late.’
'满意。在适当的时间和地点我会记住一切。现在，以天堂之名，走吧，走吧！预计我会在午夜时分到达，但我迟到了。”

‘By five minutes.’
“五分钟后。”

‘Yes; but in certain circumstances five minutes are five ages.’
'是的;但在某些情况下，五分钟就是五个年龄。”

‘When one loves.’
“当一个人爱的时候。”

‘Well! And who told you I had no affair with a lover?’
'出色地！谁告诉你我和情人没有外遇的？

‘It is a man, then, who expects you?’ cried d’Artagnan. ‘A man!’
“那么，这是一个男人，谁会指望你呢？”达达尼昂喊道。 “一个男人！”

‘The discussion is going to begin again!’ said Mme. Bonacieux, with a half-smile which was not exempt from a tinge of impatience.
“讨论又要开始了！​​”夫人说道。博纳希厄微笑着，脸上不免带着一丝不耐烦。

‘No, no; I go, I depart! I believe in you, and I would have all the merit of my devotion, even if that devotion were stupidity. Adieu, madame, adieu!’
'不，不;我走，我出发！我相信你，我会拥有我奉献的所有功德，即使这种奉献是愚蠢的。再见，夫人，再见！

And as if he only felt strength to detach himself by a violent effort from the hand he held, he sprang away, running, while Mme. Bonacieux knocked, as at the shutter, three light and regular taps. When he had gained the angle of the street, he turned. The door had been opened, and shut again; the mercer’s pretty wife had disappeared.
就好像他只觉得有力量用力挣脱他握着的手一样，他跳开了，跑着，而夫人。博纳希厄像敲快门一样轻轻地、有规律地敲了三下。当他找到街道的角度后，他转过身来。门被打开，又关上。商人的漂亮妻子失踪了。

D’Artagnan pursued his way. He had given his word not to watch Mme. Bonacieux, and if his life had depended upon the spot to which she was going or upon the person who should accompany her, d’Artagnan would have returned home, since he had so promised. Five minutes later he was in the Rue des Fossoyeurs.
达达尼昂继续追寻他的道路。他已经保证不看夫人。博纳希厄，如果他的生命取决于她要去的地方或陪伴她的人，那么达达尼昂就会回家，因为他已经如此保证了。五分钟后，他来到了福索耶街。

‘Poor Athos!’ said he; ‘he will never guess what all this means. He will have fallen asleep waiting for me, or else he will have returned home, where he will have learned that a woman had been there. A woman with Athos! After all,’ continued d’Artagnan, ‘there was certainly one with Aramis. All this is very strange; and I am curious to know how it will end.’
“可怜的阿托斯！”他说道。 “他永远猜不到这一切意味着什么。他会在等我的时候睡着的，否则他就会回家，在那里他会得知有一个女人在那里。一个有阿托斯的女人！毕竟，”达达尼昂继续说道，“阿拉米斯肯定有一个。这一切都很奇怪；我很好奇它会如何结束。

‘Badly, monsieur, badly!’ replied a voice which the young man recognized as that of Planchet; for, soliloquizing aloud, as very preoccupied people do, he had entered the alley, at the end of which were the stairs which led to his chamber.
“糟糕，先生，糟糕！”一个声音回答道，年轻人认出那是普朗谢特的声音。因为，正如心事重重的人所做的那样，他大声自言自语，进入了小巷，小巷的尽头是通向他房间的楼梯。

‘How badly? What do you mean by that, you idiot?’ asked d’Artagnan. ‘What has happened?’
‘有多严重？ “你这白痴，这是什么意思？”达达尼昂问道。 '发生了什么事？'

‘All sorts of misfortunes.’
“各种不幸。”

‘What?’
'什么？'

‘In the first place, Monsieur Athos is arrested.’
“首先，阿托斯先生被捕了。”

‘Arrested! Athos arrested! What for?’
‘被捕了！阿托斯被捕！做什么的？'

‘He was found in your lodging; they took him for you.’
“他是在你的住处被发现的；他们把他当作你了。

‘And by whom was he arrested?’
“他是被谁逮捕的？”

‘By Guards brought by the men in black whom you put to flight.’
“被你赶走的黑衣人带来的卫兵。”

‘Why did he not tell them his name? Why did he not tell them he knew nothing about this affair?’
‘他为什么不告诉他们他的名字？他为什么不告诉他们他对这件事一无所知？

‘He took care not to do so, monsieur; on the contrary, he came up to me and said, ‘It is your master that needs his liberty at this moment and not I, since he knows everything and I know nothing. They will believe he is arrested, and that will give him time; in three days I will tell them who I am, and they cannot fail to let me go.’’
“他小心翼翼地不这样做，先生；相反，他走到我面前说：‘此刻需要自由的是你的主人，而不是我，因为他什么都知道，而我什么都不知道。他们会相信他被捕了，这会给他时间；三天内我会告诉他们我是谁，他们不可能不放我走的。”

‘Bravo, Athos! Noble heart!’ murmured d’Artagnan. ‘I know him well there! And what did the officers do?’
‘好极了，阿托斯！高贵的心！”达达尼昂低声说道。 “我在那里很了解他！军官们做了什么？

‘Four conveyed him away, I don’t know where—to the Bastille or Fort l’Eveque. Two remained with the men in black, who rummaged every place and took all the papers. The last two mounted guard at the door during this examination; then, when all was over, they went away, leaving the house empty and exposed.’
“四个人把他抬走了，我不知道去了哪里——巴士底狱或者埃韦克堡。其中两个留在黑衣人身边，黑衣人翻遍了每一个地方，拿走了所有的文件。检查期间，最后两个人在门口站岗；然后，当一切结束后，他们就走了，留下空荡荡的房子。

‘And Porthos and Aramis?’
“波托斯和阿拉米斯呢？”

‘I could not find them; they did not come.’
“我找不到他们；他们没有来。

‘But they may come any moment, for you left word that I awaited them?’
“但是他们随时都可能来，因为你留下话让我在等他们？”

‘Yes, monsieur.’
“是的，先生。”

‘Well, don’t budge, then; if they come, tell them what has happened. Let them wait for me at the Pomme-de-Pin. Here it would be dangerous; the house may be watched. I will run to Monsieur de Treville to tell them all this, and will meet them there.’
好吧，那就别让步；如果他们来了，请告诉他们发生了什么事。让他们在Pomme-de-Pin 等我。在这里会很危险；房子可能会受到监视。我会跑去找特雷维尔先生告诉他们这一切，并在那里与他们会面。

‘Very well, monsieur,’ said Planchet.
“很好，先生，”普朗歇说。

‘But you will remain; you are not afraid?’ said d’Artagnan, coming back to recommend courage to his lackey.
‘但你会留下来； “你不害怕吗？”达达尼昂一边说，一边回来向他的仆人鼓起勇气。

‘Be easy, monsieur,’ said Planchet; ‘you do not know me yet. I am brave when I set about it. It is all in beginning. Besides, I am a Picard.’
“放轻松点，先生，”普朗歇说。 ‘你还不认识我。当我开始做这件事时，我很勇敢。一切都还处于开始阶段。此外，我是皮卡德家族的一员。

‘Then it is understood,’ said d’Artagnan; ‘you would rather be killed than desert your post?’
“那就明白了，”达达尼昂说。 “你宁愿被杀也不愿放弃岗位？”

‘Yes, monsieur; and there is nothing I would not do to prove to Monsieur that I am attached to him.’
“是的，先生；为了向先生证明我对他的依恋，我愿意做任何事。”

‘Good!’ said d’Artagnan to himself. ‘It appears that the method I have adopted with this boy is decidedly the best. I shall use it again upon occasion.’
“好！”达达尼昂自言自语道。 ‘看来，我对这小子采取的方法，无疑是最好的。有机会我会再次使用它。

And with all the swiftness of his legs, already a little fatigued however, with the perambulations of the day, d’Artagnan directed his course toward M. de Treville’s.
达达尼昂迈着敏捷的双腿，尽管经过一天的巡视，已经有点疲劳了，他还是朝着德特雷维尔先生的方向走去。

M. de Treville was not at his hotel. His company was on guard at the Louvre; he was at the Louvre with his company.
德特雷维尔先生不在旅馆里。他的连队在卢浮宫守卫；他和他的公司在卢浮宫。

It was necessary to reach M. de Treville; it was important that he should be informed of what was passing. D’Artagnan resolved to try and enter the Louvre. His costume of Guardsman in the company of M. Dessessart ought to be his passport.
有必要去见德·特雷维尔先生。重要的是让他了解正在发生的事情。达达尼昂决定尝试进入卢浮宫。他在德塞萨特先生的陪伴下所穿的卫兵服装应该是他的护照。

He therefore went down the Rue des Petits Augustins, and came up to the quay, in order to take the New Bridge. He had at first an idea of crossing by the ferry; but on gaining the riverside, he had mechanically put his hand into his pocket, and perceived that he had not wherewithal to pay his passage.
因此，他沿着小奥古斯丁街走下去，来到码头，以便占领新桥。起初，他想到了乘渡轮过去。但到了河边，他机械地把手伸进口袋，发现自己没有钱付路费。

As he gained the top of the Rue Guenegaud, he saw two persons coming out of the Rue Dauphine whose appearance very much struck him. Of the two persons who composed this group, one was a man and the other a woman. The woman had the outline of Mme. Bonacieux; the man resembled Aramis so much as to be mistaken for him.
当他登上格内戈街的顶端时，他看到两个人从多菲内街走出来，他们的外表给他留下了深刻的印象。这群人有两个人，一男一女。这个女人的轮廓就是夫人的轮廓。博纳西厄；这个人与阿拉米斯非常相似，以至于被误认为是他。

Besides, the woman wore that black mantle which d’Artagnan could still see outlined on the shutter of the Rue de Vaugirard and on the door of the Rue de la Harpe; still further, the man wore the uniform of a Musketeer.
此外，那个女人穿着那件黑色斗篷，达达尼昂仍然可以在沃吉拉尔街的百叶窗和哈普街的门上看到它的轮廓。更进一步，那人穿着火枪手的制服。

The woman’s hood was pulled down, and the man held a handkerchief to his face. Both, as this double precaution indicated, had an interest in not being recognized.
女人的兜帽被拉下，男人用手帕捂住脸。正如这种双重预防措施所表明的那样，两者都有不被认可的利益。

They took the bridge. That was d’Artagnan’s road, as he was going to the Louvre. D’Artagnan followed them.
他们占领了这座桥。那是达达尼昂的路，他要去卢浮宫。达达尼昂跟在他们后面。

He had not gone twenty steps before he became convinced that the woman was really Mme. Bonacieux and that the man was Aramis.
还没走出二十步，他就确信这个女人确实是夫人。博纳西厄并得知这个人就是阿拉米斯。

He felt at that instant all the suspicions of jealousy agitating his heart. He felt himself doubly betrayed, by his friend and by her whom he already loved like a mistress. Mme. Bonacieux had declared to him, by all the gods, that she did not know Aramis; and a quarter of an hour after having made this assertion, he found her hanging on the arm of Aramis.
那一瞬间，他感觉到所有的嫉妒的怀疑都在搅动着他的心。他感到自己受到了双重背叛：被他的朋友和他已经像情妇一样爱着的她。女士。博纳希厄以诸神之名向他宣称，她不认识阿拉米斯。做出这个断言后一刻钟，他发现她挂在阿拉米斯的手臂上。

D’Artagnan did not reflect that he had only known the mercer’s pretty wife for three hours; that she owed him nothing but a little gratitude for having delivered her from the men in black, who wished to carry her off, and that she had promised him nothing. He considered himself an outraged, betrayed, and ridiculed lover. Blood and anger mounted to his face; he was resolved to unravel the mystery.
达达尼昂并没有想到他只认识了商人漂亮的妻子三个小时；她只欠他一点感激之情，因为他把她从黑衣人手中救了出来，黑衣人想把她带走，而她什么也没答应他。他认为自己是一个被愤怒、被背叛、被嘲笑的情人。他的脸上充满了血色和愤怒。他决心解开这个谜团。

The young man and young woman perceived they were watched, and redoubled their speed. D’Artagnan determined upon his course. He passed them, then returned so as to meet them exactly before the Samaritaine. Which was illuminated by a lamp which threw its light over all that part of the bridge.
少男和少妇察觉到他们被监视，加快了速度。达达尼昂决定了他的路线。他经过他们，然后返回，以便在撒玛利亚人面前与他们会面。一盏灯照亮了桥，灯照亮了桥的所有部分。

D’Artagnan stopped before them, and they stopped before him.
达达尼昂在他们面前停了下来，他们也在他面前停了下来。

‘What do you want, monsieur?’ demanded the Musketeer, recoiling a step, and with a foreign accent, which proved to d’Artagnan that he was deceived in one of his conjectures.
“您想要什么，先生？”火枪手向后退了一步，带着外国口音问道，这向达达尼昂证明，他的一个猜想被欺骗了。

‘It is not Aramis!’ cried he.
“这不是阿拉米斯！”他喊道。

‘No, monsieur, it is not Aramis; and by your exclamation I perceive you have mistaken me for another, and pardon you.’
“不，先生，这不是阿拉米斯，而是阿拉米斯。”从你的惊呼声中，我知道你把我误认为是另一个人了，请原谅你。”

‘You pardon me?’ cried d’Artagnan.
“你原谅我吗？”达达尼昂喊道。

‘Yes,’ replied the stranger. ‘Allow me, then, to pass on, since it is not with me you have anything to do.’
“是的，”陌生人回答道。 “那么，请允许我继续说下去，因为这与我无关，你有什么事情要做。”

‘You are right, monsieur, it is not with you that I have anything to do; it is with Madame.’
“您说得对，先生，我与您无关；我与您无关。”是和夫人在一起的。”

‘With Madame! You do not know her,’ replied the stranger.
和夫人一起！你不认识她，”陌生人回答道。

‘You are deceived, monsieur; I know her very well.’
“您被骗了，先生；我很了解她。

‘Ah,’ said Mme. Bonacieux; in a tone of reproach, ‘ah, monsieur, I had your promise as a soldier and your word as a gentleman. I hoped to be able to rely upon that.’
“啊，”夫人说。博纳西厄；用责备的语气说：“啊，先生，我得到了你作为军人的承诺和作为绅士的承诺。”我希望能够依靠这一点。

‘And I, madame!’ said d’Artagnan, embarrassed; ‘you promised me—‘
“还有我，夫人！”达达尼昂尴尬地说。 '你答应过我-'

‘Take my arm, madame,’ said the stranger, ‘and let us continue our way.’
“夫人，牵着我的胳膊，”陌生人说道，“我们继续赶路吧。”

D’Artagnan, however, stupefied, cast down, annihilated by all that happened, stood, with crossed arms, before the Musketeer and Mme. Bonacieux.
然而，达达尼昂却惊呆了，心情低落，被所发生的一切击垮了，他双臂交叉地站在火枪手和夫人面前。博纳西厄。

The Musketeer advanced two steps, and pushed d’Artagnan aside with his hand. D’Artagnan made a spring backward and drew his sword. At the same time, and with the rapidity of lightning, the stranger drew his.
火枪手上前两步，用手将达达尼昂推到一边。达达尼昂向后一跳，拔出了剑。与此同时，陌生人以闪电般的速度拔出了他的。

‘In the name of heaven, my Lord!’ cried Mme. Bonacieux, throwing herself between the combatants and seizing the swords with her hands.
“以天堂的名义，陛下！”夫人喊道。博纳希厄冲到了战斗者之间，双手抓住了剑。

‘My Lord!’ cried d’Artagnan, enlightened by a sudden idea, ‘my Lord! Pardon me, monsieur, but you are not—‘
“大人！”达达尼昂突然灵机一动，喊道，“大人！请原谅，先生，但您不是——”

‘My Lord the Duke of Buckingham,’ said Mme. Bonacieux, in an undertone; ‘and now you may ruin us all.’
“白金汉公爵阁下，”夫人说。博纳西厄（Bonacieux），声音低沉； “现在你可能毁了我们所有人。”

‘My Lord, Madame, I ask a hundred pardons! But I love her, my Lord, and was jealous. You know what it is to love, my Lord. Pardon me, and then tell me how I can risk my life to serve your Grace?’
“大人，夫人，我请求一百次宽恕！但我爱她，主啊，并且嫉妒。你知道什么是爱，我的主。请原谅我，然后告诉我如何冒着生命危险来侍奉陛下？

‘You are a brave young man,’ said Buckingham, holding out his hand to d’Artagnan, who pressed it respectfully. ‘You offer me your services; with the same frankness I accept them. Follow us at a distance of twenty paces, as far as the Louvre, and if anyone watches us, slay him!’
“你是一个勇敢的年轻人，”白金汉向达达尼昂伸出了手，达达尼昂恭敬地握了握。 ‘你向我提供你的服务；我以同样的坦率接受他们。跟着我们二十步远，一直到卢浮宫，如果有人看到我们，杀了他！

D’Artagnan placed his naked sword under his arm, allowed the duke and Mme. Bonacieux to take twenty steps ahead, and then followed them, ready to execute the instructions of the noble and elegant minister of Charles I.
达达尼昂将裸露的剑放在腋下，允许公爵和夫人。博纳希厄向前走了二十步，然后跟在他们后面，准备执行查理一世高贵优雅的大臣的指示。

Fortunately, he had no opportunity to give the duke this proof of his devotion, and the young woman and the handsome Musketeer entered the Louvre by the wicket of the Echelle without any interference.
幸运的是，他没有机会向公爵证明他的忠诚，年轻女子和英俊的火枪手就不受任何干扰地从阶梯式检票口进入了卢浮宫。

As for d’Artagnan, he immediately repaired to the cabaret of the Pomme-de-Pin, where he found Porthos and Aramis awaiting him. Without giving them any explanation of the alarm and inconvenience he had caused them, he told them that he had terminated the affair alone in which he had for a moment believed he should need their assistance.
至于达达尼昂，他立即前往Pomme-de-Pin的歌舞厅，在那里他发现波托斯和阿拉米斯正在等他。他没有向他们解释他给他们带来的惊慌和不便，而是告诉他们，他已经独自结束了这件事，他一度认为自己应该需要他们的帮助。

Meanwhile, carried away as we are by our narrative, we must leave our three friends to themselves, and follow the Duke of Buckingham and his guide through the labyrinths of the Louvre.
与此同时，由于我们被自己的叙述所迷惑，我们必须让我们的三个朋友独自一人，跟随白金汉公爵和他的向导穿过卢浮宫的迷宫。

12 GEORGE VILLIERS, DUKE OF BUCKINGHAM
12 乔治·维利尔斯，白金汉公爵

Mme. Bonacieux and the duke entered the Louvre without difficulty. Mme. Bonacieux was known to belong to the queen; the duke wore the uniform of the Musketeers of M. de Treville, who, as we have said, were that evening on guard. Besides, Germain was in the interests of the queen; and if anything should happen, Mme. Bonacieux would be accused of having introduced her lover into the Louvre, that was all. She took the risk upon herself. Her reputation would be lost, it is true; but of what value in the world was the reputation of the little wife of a mercer?
女士。博纳希厄和公爵毫不费力地进入了卢浮宫。女士。众所周知，博纳西厄属于女王。公爵穿着德特雷维尔先生火枪手的制服，正如我们所说，那天晚上，他们正在值守。此外，热尔曼也符合女王的利益。如果有什么事情发生的话，女士。博纳希厄会被指控将她的情人介绍到卢浮宫，仅此而已。她自己承担了这个风险。确实，她的名誉将会丧失。但是，一个商人的小妻子的声誉到底有什么价值呢？

Once within the interior of the court, the duke and the young woman followed the wall for the space of about twenty-five steps. This space passed, Mme. Bonacieux pushed a little servants’ door, open by day but generally closed at night. The door yielded. Both entered, and found themselves in darkness; but Mme. Bonacieux was acquainted with all the turnings and windings of this part of the Louvre, appropriated for the people of the household. She closed the door after her, took the duke by the hand, and after a few experimental steps, grasped a balustrade, put her foot upon the bottom step, and began to ascend the staircase. The duke counted two stories. She then turned to the right, followed the course of a long corridor, descended a flight, went a few steps farther, introduced a key into a lock, opened a door, and pushed the duke into an apartment lighted only by a lamp, saying, ‘Remain here, my Lord Duke; someone will come.’ She then went out by the same door, which she locked, so that the duke found himself literally a prisoner.
进入宫廷内部后，公爵与少妇顺着墙壁走了大约二十五步。这个空间过去了，夫人。博纳希厄推开了一扇小仆人的门，白天打开，但晚上通常关闭。门屈服了。两人走进去，发现自己身处黑暗之中。但是女士。博纳西厄熟悉卢浮宫这部分为家庭成员所用的所有转弯和蜿蜒之处。她关上身后的门，拉着公爵的手，试探性地走了几步，抓住栏杆，把脚踩在最下面的台阶上，开始登上楼梯。公爵数了数两个故事。然后她向右转，沿着一条长长的走廊，下了楼梯，又走了几步，用钥匙插进锁，打开了一扇门，把公爵推进一间只有一盏灯照明的公寓，说道： '留在这里，公爵大人；会有人来的。”然后她从同一扇门出去，并锁上了门，因此公爵发现自己实际上是一个囚犯。

Nevertheless, isolated as he was, we must say that the Duke of Buckingham did not experience an instant of fear. One of the salient points of his character was the search for adventures and a love of romance. Brave, rash, and enterprising, this was not the first time he had risked his life in such attempts. He had learned that the pretended message from Anne of Austria, upon the faith of which he had come to Paris, was a snare; but instead of regaining England, he had, abusing the position in which he had been placed, declared to the queen that he would not depart without seeing her. The queen had at first positively refused; but at length became afraid that the duke, if exasperated, would commit some folly. She had already decided upon seeing him and urging his immediate departure, when, on the very evening of coming to this decision, Mme. Bonacieux, who was charged with going to fetch the duke and conducting him to the Louvre, was abducted. For two days no one knew what had become of her, and everything remained in suspense; but once free, and placed in communication with Laporte, matters resumed their course, and she accomplished the perilous enterprise which, but for her arrest, would have been executed three days earlier.
然而，尽管白金汉公爵处于孤立状态，但我们必须说，他并没有经历过片刻的恐惧。他性格的显着特点之一是寻求冒险和热爱浪漫。勇敢、鲁莽、进取，这并不是他第一次冒着生命危险进行这样的尝试。他了解到，他所信奉的来自奥地利安妮的假消息是一个陷阱；但他并没有夺回英格兰，而是滥用了自己的地位，向女王宣布，他不会在没有见到她的情况下离开。女王一开始断然拒绝了。但最终他担心公爵一旦被激怒，就会做出一些愚蠢的事情。她已经决定要见他并敦促他立即离开，就在做出这一决定的当天晚上，夫人。博纳西厄负责去接公爵并把他带到卢浮宫，但他被绑架了。两天来，没有人知道她发生了什么事，一切都悬而未决。但一旦获得自由，并与拉波尔特取得联系，事情又恢复了原样，她完成了这项危险的任务，如果不是她被捕，这项任务就会在三天前执行。

Buckingham, left alone, walked toward a mirror. His Musketeer’s uniform became him marvelously.
白金汉独自一人走向镜子。他的火枪手制服非常适合他。

At thirty-five, which was then his age, he passed, with just title, for the handsomest gentleman and the most elegant cavalier of France or England.
三十五岁，也就是他当时的年龄，他凭借公正的头衔，被评为法国或英国最英俊的绅士和最优雅的骑士。

The favorite of two kings, immensely rich, all-powerful in a kingdom which he disordered at his fancy and calmed again at his caprice, George Villiers, Duke of Buckingham, had lived one of those fabulous existences which survive, in the course of centuries, to astonish posterity.
白金汉公爵乔治·维利尔斯是两个国王的宠儿，他极其富有，在一个王国中无所不能，他因自己的幻想而混乱，又因自己的任性而再次平静，他过着几个世纪以来幸存下来的神话般的生活之一，令后人惊叹不已。

Sure of himself, convinced of his own power, certain that the laws which rule other men could not reach him, he went straight to the object he aimed at, even were this object were so elevated and so dazzling that it would have been madness for any other even to have contemplated it. It was thus he had succeeded in approaching several times the beautiful and proud Anne of Austria, and in making himself loved by dazzling her.
他对自己有信心，对自己的力量深信不疑，确信统治他人的法则无法触及他，他径直走向他所瞄准的目标，即使这个目标如此崇高，如此令人眼花缭乱，对于他来说这将是疯狂的。任何其他人甚至没有考虑过它。就这样，他数次成功地接近了美丽而骄傲的奥地利安妮，并通过让她眼花缭乱而赢得了她的爱戴。

George Villiers placed himself before the glass, as we have said, restored the undulations to his beautiful hair, which the weight of his hat had disordered, twisted his mustache, and, his heart swelling with joy, happy and proud at being near the moment he had so long sighed for, he smiled upon himself with pride and hope.
正如我们所说，乔治·维利尔斯站在镜子前，恢复了因帽子的重量而弄乱的美丽头发的波浪，扭曲了他的小胡子，他的心因喜悦而膨胀，为即将到来的时刻感到高兴和自豪他叹息了这么久，现在他满怀自豪和希望地对自己微笑。

At this moment a door concealed in the tapestry opened, and a woman appeared. Buckingham saw this apparition in the glass; he uttered a cry. It was the queen!
就在这时，隐藏在挂毯中的一扇门打开了，一个女人出现了。白金汉在玻璃中看到了这个幽灵；他喊了一声。原来是女王啊！

Anne of Austria was then twenty-six or twenty-seven years of age; that is to say, she was in the full splendor of her beauty.
奥地利的安妮当时二十六岁或二十七岁。也就是说，她正处于美丽的光彩之中。

Her carriage was that of a queen or a goddess; her eyes, which cast the brilliancy of emeralds, were perfectly beautiful, and yet were at the same time full of sweetness and majesty.
她的仪态是女王或女神的仪态。她的眼睛泛着翠绿的光彩，美丽极了，但同时又充满了甜美和威严。

Her mouth was small and rosy; and although her underlip, like that of all princes of the House of Austria, protruded slightly beyond the other, it was eminently lovely in its smile, but as profoundly disdainful in its contempt.
她的嘴小而红润。尽管她的下唇像奥地利王室所有王子的下唇一样，稍稍突出，但她的微笑显得格外可爱，但同时又带着深深的轻蔑。

Her skin was admired for its velvety softness; her hands and arms were of surpassing beauty, all the poets of the time singing them as incomparable.
她的皮肤因其天鹅绒般的柔软而受到赞赏。她的手和手臂极其美丽，当时的所有诗人都赞叹其无与伦比。

Lastly, her hair, which, from being light in her youth, had become chestnut, and which she wore curled very plainly, and with much powder, admirably set off her face, in which the most rigid critic could only have desired a little less rouge, and the most fastidious sculptor a little more fineness in the nose.
最后，她的头发从年轻时的浅色变成了栗色，她的头发卷得很朴素，涂了很多粉，令人钦佩地衬托着她的脸，即使是最严格的批评家也只能希望少一点。胭脂，最挑剔的雕刻家在鼻子上多一点精致。

Buckingham remained for a moment dazzled. Never had Anne of Austria appeared to him so beautiful, amid balls, fetes, or carousals, as she appeared to him at this moment, dressed in a simple robe of white satin, and accompanied by Donna Estafania— the only one of her Spanish women who had not been driven from her by the jealousy of the king or by the persecutions of Richelieu.
白金汉一时眼花缭乱。在他看来，奥地利的安妮从来没有在舞会、宴会或狂欢节上如此美丽，就像此时此刻，她穿着一件简单的白色缎子长袍，身边有唐娜·埃斯塔法尼亚——她唯一的一位西班牙女人。她并没有因为国王的嫉妒或黎塞留的迫害而离开她。

Anne of Austria took two steps forward. Buckingham threw himself at her feet, and before the queen could prevent him, kissed the hem of her robe.
奥地利的安妮向前走了两步。白金汉扑倒在她的脚下，在女王阻止之前，他亲吻了她的长袍下摆。

‘Duke, you already know that it is not I who caused you to be written to.’
“公爵，你已经知道，不是我让你写信的。”

‘Yes, yes, madame! Yes, your Majesty!’ cried the duke. ‘I know that I must have been mad, senseless, to believe that snow would become animated or marble warm; but what then! They who love believe easily in love. Besides, I have lost nothing by this journey because I see you.’
‘是的，是的，夫人！是的，陛下！”公爵喊道。 “我知道我一定是疯了、毫无知觉，才相信雪会变得生动，或者大理石会变得温暖；但那又怎样呢！爱过的人很容易相信爱情。此外，这次旅程我没有失去任何东西，因为我看到了你。”

‘Yes,’ replied Anne, ‘but you know why and how I see you; because, insensible to all my sufferings, you persist in remaining in a city where, by remaining, you run the risk of your life, and make me run the risk of my honor. I see you to tell you that everything separates us—the depths of the sea, the enmity of kingdoms, the sanctity of vows. It is sacrilege to struggle against so many things, my Lord. In short, I see you to tell you that we must never see each other again.’
“是的，”安妮回答道，“但你知道我为什么以及如何看待你；因为，你对我所有的痛苦无动于衷，坚持留在这座城市，留下来，你就冒着生命危险，也让我冒着荣誉的危险。我看到你告诉你，一切都将我们分开——大海的深处、王国的仇恨、誓言的神圣。陛下，与如此多的事物作斗争是一种亵渎。简而言之，我看到你是想告诉你，我们决不能再见面。

‘Speak on, madame, speak on, Queen,’ said Buckingham; ‘the sweetness of your voice covers the harshness of your words. You talk of sacrilege! Why, the sacrilege is the separation of two hearts formed by God for each other.’
“说吧，夫人，说吧，王后，”白金汉说。 ‘你声音的甜美掩盖了你言语的严厉。你说的是亵渎！为什么，亵渎是上帝为彼此而造的两颗心的分离。

‘My Lord,’ cried the queen, ‘you forget that I have never said that I love you.’
“陛下，”王后喊道，“您忘了我从来没有说过我爱您。”

‘But you have never told me that you did not love me; and truly, to speak such words to me would be, on the part of your Majesty, too great an ingratitude. For tell me, where can you find a love like mine—a love which neither time, nor absence, nor despair can extinguish, a love which contents itself with a lost ribbon, a stray look, or a chance word? It is now three years, madame, since I saw you for the first time, and during those three years I have loved you thus. Shall I tell you each ornament of your toilet? Mark! I see you now. You were seated upon cushions in the Spanish fashion; you wore a robe of green satin embroidered with gold and silver, hanging sleeves knotted upon your beautiful arms—those lovely arms—with large diamonds. You wore a close ruff, a small cap upon your head of the same color as your robe, and in that cap a heron’s feather. Hold! Hold! I shut my eyes, and I can see you as you then were; I open them again, and I see what you are now—a hundred time more beautiful!’
‘但你从来没有告诉过我你不爱我；确实，陛下对我说出这样的话实在是太忘恩负义了。告诉我，你在哪里可以找到像我这样的爱——一种无论时间、不在场、还是绝望都无法熄灭的爱，一种满足于丢失的丝带、流浪的眼神或偶然的话语的爱？夫人，自从我第一次见到您以来，已经三年了，在这三年里我就这样爱着您。我要告诉你你厕所的每一个装饰品吗？标记！我现在看到你了。你以西班牙方式坐在垫子上；你穿着一件绿缎长袍，上面绣着金银，挂着的袖子在你美丽的手臂上打结——那些可爱的手臂——上面镶着大颗钻石。你戴着紧领领，头上戴一顶与长袍颜色相同的小帽子，帽子里插着一根苍鹭羽毛。抓住！抓住！我闭上眼睛，我就能看到你当时的样子；我再次打开它们，我看到了你现在的样子——美丽一百倍！

‘What folly,’ murmured Anne of Austria, who had not the courage to find fault with the duke for having so well preserved her portrait in his heart, ‘what folly to feed a useless passion with such remembrances!’
“多么愚蠢啊，”奥地利的安妮低声说道，她没有勇气去指责公爵把她的肖像保存得如此完好，“用这样的回忆来满足无用的激情，是多么愚蠢的行为！”

‘And upon what then must I live? I have nothing but memory. It is my happiness, my treasure, my hope. Every time I see you is a fresh diamond which I enclose in the casket of my heart. This is the fourth which you have let fall and I have picked up; for in three years, madame, I have only seen you four times—the first, which I have described to you; the second, at the mansion of Madame de Chevreuse; the third, in the gardens of Amiens.’
‘那么我必须靠什么生活呢？我什么都没有，除了记忆。这是我的幸福，我的财富，我的希望。每次见到你都是一颗新鲜的钻石，我把它装进我的心匣里。这是你掉落的第四个，我捡起的；夫人，三年来我只见过您四次——第一次是我向您描述的；第二次是我向您描述的。第二个是在谢夫勒斯夫人的宅邸；第三个，在亚眠花园。

‘Duke,’ said the queen, blushing, ‘never speak of that evening.’
“公爵，”王后红着脸说道，“别再提那天晚上的事情了。”

‘Oh, let us speak of it; on the contrary, let us speak of it! That is the most happy and brilliant evening of my life! You remember what a beautiful night it was? How soft and perfumed was the air; how lovely the blue heavens and star-enameled sky! Ah, then, madame, I was able for one instant to be alone with you. Then you were about to tell me all—the isolation of your life, the griefs of your heart. You leaned upon my arm—upon this, madame! I felt, in bending my head toward you, your beautiful hair touch my cheek; and every time that it touched me I trembled from head to foot. Oh, Queen! Queen! You do not know what felicity from heaven, what joys from paradise, are comprised in a moment like that. Take my wealth, my fortune, my glory, all the days I have to live, for such an instant, for a night like that. For that night, madame, that night you loved me, I will swear it.’
‘哦，让我们谈谈吧；相反，我们来谈谈吧！那是我一生中最幸福、最辉煌的夜晚！你还记得那是一个多么美好的夜晚吗？空气多么柔和，多么芬芳；蔚蓝的天空和繁星闪烁的天空多么可爱啊！啊，那么，夫人，我就可以和您单独相处一瞬间了。然后你就要告诉我一切——你生活中的孤独，你内心的悲伤。您靠在我的手臂上——靠在这个手臂上，夫人！当我向你低下头时，我感觉到你美丽的头发触到了我的脸颊；每次它触碰我时，我都会从头到脚颤抖。哦，女王！女王！你不知道这样的时刻包含着怎样的天堂之福、天堂之乐。拿走我的财富，我的财产，我的荣耀，我必须活下去的所有日子，就为了这样一个瞬间，为了这样一个夜晚。那天晚上，夫人，那天晚上你爱我，我发誓。”

‘My Lord, yes; it is possible that the influence of the place, the charm of the beautiful evening, the fascination of your look—the thousand circumstances, in short, which sometimes unite to destroy a woman—were grouped around me on that fatal evening; but, my Lord, you saw the queen come to the aid of the woman who faltered. At the first word you dared to utter, at the first freedom to which I had to reply, I called for help.’
“陛下，是的；那个地方的影响、美丽夜晚的魅力、你容貌的魅力——简而言之，有时联合起来摧毁一个女人的上千种情况——可能在那个致命的夜晚聚集在我周围；也许是这样。但是，陛下，您看到王后帮助了那位动摇的女人。当你敢于说出第一个词时，当我第一次必须回应时，我就呼救了。

‘Yes, yes, that is true. And any other love but mine would have sunk beneath this ordeal; but my love came out from it more ardent and more eternal. You believed that you would fly from me by returning to Paris; you believed that I would not dare to quit the treasure over which my master had charged me to watch. What to me were all the treasures in the world, or all the kings of the earth! Eight days after, I was back again, madame. That time you had nothing to say to me; I had risked my life and favor to see you but for a second. I did not even touch your hand, and you pardoned me on seeing me so submissive and so repentant.’
‘是的，是的，确实如此。除了我的爱之外，任何其他的爱都会在这场磨难中沉沦。但我的爱却从中变得更加热烈、更加永恒。你相信你会飞回巴黎，离开我；你相信我不敢放弃我主人托付我看守的宝藏。对我来说，世界上所有的宝藏，或者地球上所有的国王，算什么！八天后，我又回来了，夫人。那时你对我无话可说；我冒着生命危险和恩惠去见你，但只有一秒钟。我什至没有碰你的手，你看到我如此顺从和如此悔改就原谅了我。

‘Yes, but calumny seized upon all those follies in which I took no part, as you well know, my Lord. The king, excited by the cardinal, made a terrible clamor. Madame de Vernet was driven from me, Putange was exiled, Madame de Chevreuse fell into disgrace, and when you wished to come back as ambassador to France, the king himself—remember, my lord—the king himself opposed to it.’
“是的，但是正如您所知道的，我的主，所有那些我没有参与的愚蠢行为都受到了诽谤。国王被红衣主教激怒了，发出了可怕的叫喊。德韦尔内夫人被从我身边赶走，普坦格被流放，德谢夫勒斯夫人蒙羞，当您希望回来担任驻法国大使时，国王本人——请记住，大人——国王本人反对。

‘Yes, and France is about to pay for her king’s refusal with a war. I am not allowed to see you, madame, but you shall every day hear of me. What object, think you, have this expedition to Re and this league with the Protestants of La Rochelle which I am projecting? The pleasure of seeing you. I have no hope of penetrating, sword in hand, to Paris, I know that well. But this war may bring round a peace; this peace will require a negotiator; that negotiator will be me. They will not dare to refuse me then; and I will return to Paris, and will see you again, and will be happy for an instant. Thousands of men, it is true, will have to pay for my happiness with their lives; but what is that to me, provided I see you again! All this is perhaps folly—perhaps insanity; but tell me what woman has a lover more truly in love; what queen a servant more ardent?’
“是的，法国即将为国王的拒绝付出战争的代价。夫人，我不能见到您，但您每天都会听到我的消息。您认为，我所计划的这次雷探险以及与拉罗谢尔新教徒的联盟有何目的？很高兴见到你。我很清楚，我没有希望手持剑深入巴黎。但这场战争可能会带来和平；这种和平需要一位谈判者；那个谈判者就是我。那时他们就不敢拒绝我了；我会回到巴黎，再次见到你，我会感到短暂的快乐。确实，成千上万的人将不得不为我的幸福付出生命的代价。但只要我能再次见到你，那对我来说又有什么意义呢！这一切也许是愚蠢的——也许是精神错乱；但请告诉我哪个女人有一个更真心相爱的情人；还有哪个女王比仆人更热心呢？

‘My Lord, my Lord, you invoke in your defense things which accuse you more strongly. All these proofs of love which you would give me are almost crimes.’
“我的主啊，我的主啊，您在辩护时援引了那些对您提出更强烈指控的事情。你给我的所有这些爱的证明几乎都是犯罪。

‘Because you do not love me, madame! If you loved me, you would view all this otherwise. If you loved me, oh, if you loved me, that would be too great happiness, and I should run mad. Ah, Madame de Chevreuse was less cruel than you. Holland loved her, and she responded to his love.’
“因为你不爱我，夫人！如果你爱我，你就会以不同的方式看待这一切。如果你爱我，哦，如果你爱我，那就太幸福了，我应该发疯的。啊，谢夫勒斯夫人没有你那么残忍。霍兰德爱她，她也回应了他的爱。

‘Madame de Chevreuse was not queen,’ murmured Anne of Austria, overcome, in spite of herself, by the expression of so profound a passion.
“谢弗勒兹夫人不是王后，”奥地利的安妮低声说道，她不由自主地被如此深刻的激情所征服。

‘You would love me, then, if you were not queen! Madame, say that you would love me then! I can believe that it is the dignity of your rank alone which makes you cruel to me; I can believe that you had been Madame de Chevreuse, poor Buckingham might have hoped. Thanks for those sweet words! Oh, my beautiful sovereign, a hundred times, thanks!’
“那么，如果你不是女王的话，你会爱我的！”夫人，说你会爱我的！我相信，仅仅因为你的地位的尊严，你才对我如此残忍；我相信你就是德·谢夫勒斯夫人，可怜的白金汉可能希望如此。谢谢你的这些甜言蜜语！哦，我美丽的君主，一百次，谢谢！

‘Oh, my Lord! You have ill understood, wrongly interpreted; I did not mean to say—‘
'哦，我的上帝！你理解错误，解释错误；我并不是想说——”

‘Silence, silence!’ cried the duke. ‘If I am happy in an error, do not have the cruelty to lift me from it. You have told me yourself, madame, that I have been drawn into a snare; I, perhaps, may leave my life in it—for, although it may be strange, I have for some time had a presentiment that I should shortly die.’ And the duke smiled, with a smile at once sad and charming.
“安静，安静！”公爵喊道。 ‘如果我对错误感到高兴，请不要残酷地让我摆脱错误。夫人，您亲口告诉过我，我已经落入了陷阱。也许我可以把我的生命留在其中——因为，虽然这可能很奇怪，但我有一段时间一直有一种预感，我很快就会死去。”公爵笑了，笑容既悲伤又迷人。

‘Oh, my God!’ cried Anne of Austria, with an accent of terror which proved how much greater an interest she took in the duke than she ventured to tell.
“哦，我的上帝！”奥地利的安妮喊道，语气里充满了恐惧，这证明她对公爵的兴趣比她敢说的要大得多。

‘I do not tell you this, madame, to terrify you; no, it is even ridiculous for me to name it to you, and, believe me, I take no heed of such dreams. But the words you have just spoken, the hope you have almost given me, will have richly paid all—were it my life.’
“我告诉你这些，女士，不是为了吓唬你；不，我把它告诉你甚至是可笑的，而且，相信我，我不会理会这样的梦。但你刚才所说的话，你几乎给了我的希望，将让我得到丰厚的回报——如果这是我的生命的话。”

‘Oh, but I,’ said Anne, ‘I also, duke, have had presentiments; I also have had dreams. I dreamed that I saw you lying bleeding, wounded.’
“哦，但是我，”安妮说，“我也有预感，公爵。我也曾有过梦想。我梦见你受伤流血地躺在那里。

‘In the left side, was it not, and with a knife?’ interrupted Buckingham.
“在左边，不是吗，还有一把刀？”白金汉打断道。

‘Yes, it was so, my Lord, it was so—in the left side, and with a knife. Who can possibly have told you I had had that dream? I have imparted it to no one but my God, and that in my prayers.’
“是的，是这样的，大人，是这样的——在左边，而且是用刀。”谁能告诉你我曾做过那个梦？除了我的上帝之外，我没有将它传授给任何人，并且在我的祈祷中。”

‘I ask for no more. You love me, madame; it is enough.’
‘我不再要求更多了。夫人，您爱我；就足够了。

‘I love you, I?’
'我爱你？'

‘Yes, yes. Would God send the same dreams to you as to me if you did not love me? Should we have the same presentiments if our existences did not touch at the heart? You love me, my beautiful queen, and you will weep for me?’
'是的是的。如果你不爱我，上帝会给你和我同样的梦吗？如果我们的存在没有触动心灵，我们是否也会有同样的预感？你爱我，我美丽的女王，你会为我哭泣吗？

‘Oh, my God, my God!’ cried Anne of Austria, ‘this is more than I can bear. In the name of heaven, Duke, leave me, go! I do not know whether I love you or love you not; but what I know is that I will not be perjured. Take pity on me, then, and go! Oh, if you are struck in France, if you die in France, if I could imagine that your love for me was the cause of your death, I could not console myself; I should run mad. Depart then, depart, I implore you!’
“哦，我的上帝，我的上帝！”奥地利的安妮喊道，“这超出了我的承受能力。”以天堂之名，公爵，离开我，走吧！我不知道我是爱你还是不爱你；但我知道我不会做伪证。那么可怜我吧，走吧！哦，如果你在法国被击中，如果你死在法国，如果我能想象你对我的爱是你的死因，我无法安慰自己；我应该发疯。那么走吧，走吧，我恳求你！

‘Oh, how beautiful you are thus! Oh, how I love you!’ said Buckingham.
‘哦，你这样多么美丽啊！哦，我多么爱你啊！”白金汉说。

‘Go, go, I implore you, and return hereafter! Come back as ambassador, come back as minister, come back surrounded with guards who will defend you, with servants who will watch over you, and then I shall no longer fear for your days, and I shall be happy in seeing you.’
‘走吧，走吧，我求你了，以后再回来吧！以大使的身份回来，以大臣的身份回来，回来时周围有卫兵，他们会保护你，仆人会看守你，然后我就不再担心你的日子，我会很高兴见到你。

‘Oh, is this true what you say?’
“哦，你说的是真的吗？”

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘Oh, then, some pledge of your indulgence, some object which came from you, and may remind me that I have not been dreaming; something you have worn, and that I may wear in my turn—a ring, a necklace, a chain.’
“哦，那么，你的一些宽容的保证，一些来自你的东西，可能会提醒我，我不是在做梦;你戴过的东西，我也可以戴——戒指、项链、链子。

‘Will you depart—will you depart, if I give you that you demand?’
“如果我满足你的要求，你会离开吗？你会离开吗？”

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘This very instant?’
“就这么瞬间？”

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘You will leave France, you will return to England?’
“你会离开法国，你会回到英国吗？”

‘I will, I swear to you.’
“我会的，我向你发誓。”

‘Wait, then, wait.’
“那么，等等，等等。”

Anne of Austria re-entered her apartment, and came out again almost immediately, holding a rosewood casket in her hand, with her cipher encrusted with gold.
奥地利的安妮重新进入了她的公寓，几乎立刻又出来了，手里拿着一个紫檀木棺材，里面的密码镶满了金子。

‘Here, my Lord, here,’ said she, ‘keep this in memory of me.’
“主啊，在这里，”她说，“把这个记下来纪念我吧。”

Buckingham took the casket, and fell a second time on his knees.
白金汉接过棺材，第二次跪下。

‘You have promised me to go,’ said the queen.
“你答应过我去的，”王后说道。

‘And I keep my word. Your hand, madame, your hand, and I depart!’
'我信守诺言。你的手，夫人，你的手，我走了！

Anne of Austria stretched forth her hand, closing her eyes, and leaning with the other upon Estafania, for she felt that her strength was about to fail her.
奥地利的安妮伸出手，闭上眼睛，另一只手靠在埃斯塔法尼亚身上，因为她觉得自己的力气快要耗尽了。

Buckingham pressed his lips passionately to that beautiful hand, and then rising, said, ‘Within six months, if I am not dead, I shall have seen you again, madame—even if I have to overturn the world.’ And faithful to the promise he had made, he rushed out of the apartment.
白金汉热情地将嘴唇贴在那只美丽的手上，然后站起来说：“六个月内，如果我没有死，我会再次见到你，夫人——即使我必须推翻世界。”许下诺言后，他冲出了公寓。

In the corridor he met Mme. Bonacieux, who waited for him, and who, with the same precautions and the same good luck, conducted him out of the Louvre.
在走廊里，他遇见了夫人。博纳希厄等待着他，并以同样的预防措施和同样的好运气把他带出了卢浮宫。

13 MONSIEUR BONACIEUX
13 博纳西厄先生

There was in all this, as may have been observed, one personage concerned, of whom, notwithstanding his precarious position, we have appeared to take but very little notice. This personage was M. Bonacieux, the respectable martyr of the political and amorous intrigues which entangled themselves so nicely together at this gallant and chivalric period.
正如我们可能已经观察到的那样，在所有这一切中，有一位有关人士，尽管他的地位岌岌可危，但我们似乎很少注意到他。这个人物就是博纳西厄先生，他是一位令人尊敬的烈士，他的政治阴谋和爱情阴谋在这个侠义的时代完美地交织在一起。

Fortunately, the reader may remember, or may not remember— fortunately we have promised not to lose sight of him.
幸运的是，读者可能记得，也可能不记得——幸运的是，我们已经承诺不会忘记他。

The officers who arrested him conducted him straight to the Bastille, where he passed trembling before a party of soldiers who were loading their muskets. Thence, introduced into a halfsubterranean gallery, he became, on the part of those who had brought him, the object of the grossest insults and the harshest treatment. The officers perceived that they had not to deal with a gentleman, and they treated him like a very peasant.
逮捕他的军官直接把他带到巴士底狱，他颤抖着从一群正在给步枪装弹的士兵面前经过。从那时起，他被引入半地下的画廊，成为那些带他来的人最粗暴侮辱和最严厉对待的对象。军官们认为他们不必与一位绅士打交道，他们对待他就像对待一个农民一样。

At the end of half an hour or thereabouts, a clerk came to put an end to his tortures, but not to his anxiety, by giving the order to conduct M. Bonacieux to the Chamber of Examination. Ordinarily, prisoners were interrogated in their cells; but they did not do so with M. Bonacieux.
大约过了半个小时，一名职员过来结束了他的折磨，但并没有结束他的焦虑，他下令将博纳西厄先生带到考试室。通常，囚犯在牢房里接受审讯。但他们并没有对博纳西厄先生这样做。

Two guards attended the mercer who made him traverse a court and enter a corridor in which were three sentinels, opened a door and pushed him unceremoniously into a low room, where the only furniture was a table, a chair, and a commissary. The commissary was seated in the chair, and was writing at the table.
两名守卫看守着布商，让他穿过庭院，进入走廊，走廊里有三个哨兵，打开门，毫不客气地将他推进一间低矮的房间，那里唯一的家具是一张桌子、一把椅子和一个小卖部。小卖部坐在椅子上，正在桌子上写字。

The two guards led the prisoner toward the table, and upon a sign from the commissary drew back so far as to be unable to hear anything.
两名看守领着囚犯走向桌子，按照小卖部的示意，向后退了一步，听不到任何声音。

The commissary, who had till this time held his head down over his papers, looked up to see what sort of person he had to do with. This commissary was a man of very repulsive mien, with a pointed nose, with yellow and salient cheek bones, with eyes small but keen and penetrating, and an expression of countenance resembling at once the polecat and the fox. His head, supported by a long and flexible neck, issued from his large black robe, balancing itself with a motion very much like that of the tortoise thrusting his head out of his shell. He began by asking M. Bonacieux his name, age, condition, and abode.
直到此时，小卖部一直低着头看文件，他抬起头来，想看看自己是在和什么样的人打交道。这个小卖部是个相貌极其令人厌恶的人，鼻子尖尖，颧骨发黄而突出，眼睛虽小却锐利而锐利，表情既像鸡貂，又像狐狸。他的头由长而灵活的脖子支撑着，从宽大的黑袍中伸出来，以一种非常像乌龟将头伸出壳的动作保持平衡。他首先询问博纳西厄先生的姓名、年龄、状况和住所。

The accused replied that his name was Jacques Michel Bonacieux, that he was fifty-one years old, a retired mercer, and lived Rue des Fossoyeurs, No. 14.
被告回答说，他的名字叫雅克·米歇尔·博纳西厄（Jacques Michel Bonacieux），今年五十一岁，是一名退休的商人，住在福索耶街（Rue des Fossoyeurs）14号。

The commissary then, instead of continuing to interrogate him, made him a long speech upon the danger there is for an obscure citizen to meddle with public matters. He complicated this exordium by an exposition in which he painted the power and the deeds of the cardinal, that incomparable minister, that conqueror of past ministers, that example for ministers to come—deeds and power which none could thwart with impunity.
然后，委员没有继续审问他，而是向他发表了长篇演讲，指出无名公民干预公共事务的危险。他通过阐述使序言复杂化，其中描绘了红衣主教的权力和事迹，这位无与伦比的部长，过去部长的征服者，未来部长的榜样——任何人都无法阻止他的事迹和权力而不受惩罚。

After this second part of his discourse, fixing his hawk’s eye upon poor Bonacieux, he bade him reflect upon the gravity of his situation.
在他讲话的第二部分之后，他用鹰眼盯着可怜的博纳希厄，要求他反思自己处境的严重性。

The reflections of the mercer were already made; he cursed the instant when M. Laporte formed the idea of marrying him to his goddaughter, and particularly the moment when that goddaughter had been received as Lady of the Linen to her Majesty.
绣工的倒影已经出现了；当拉波尔特先生想到要娶他的教女为妻的那一刻，他就咒骂起来，特别是当那个教女被女王陛下接纳为亚麻布女士的那一刻。

At bottom the character of M. Bonacieux was one of profound selfishness mixed with sordid avarice, the whole seasoned with extreme cowardice. The love with which his young wife had inspired him was a secondary sentiment, and was not strong enough to contend with the primitive feelings we have just enumerated. Bonacieux indeed reflected on what had just been said to him.
从本质上讲，博纳修先生的性格是一种深深的自私与肮脏的贪婪混合在一起的性格，整个过程都充满了极端的怯懦。他年轻的妻子激发他的爱只是次要的情感，不足以与我们刚才列举的原始情感相抗衡。博纳希厄确实反思了刚才对他说的话。

‘But, Monsieur Commissary,’ said he, calmly, ‘believe that I know and appreciate, more than anybody, the merit of the incomparable eminence by whom we have the honor to be governed.’
“但是，委员先生，”他平静地说，“相信我比任何人都更了解和欣赏这位无与伦比的显赫人物的优点，我们有幸受他统治。”

‘Indeed?’ asked the commissary, with an air of doubt. ‘If that is really so, how came you in the Bastille?’
“真的吗？”小卖部疑惑地问道。 “如果真是这样，你怎么会到巴士底狱呢？”

‘How I came there, or rather why I am there,’ replied Bonacieux, ‘that is entirely impossible for me to tell you, because I don’t know myself; but to a certainty it is not for having, knowingly at least, disobliged Monsieur the Cardinal.’
“我是怎么到那里的，或者更确切地说，我为什么在那里，”博纳希厄回答道，“我完全不可能告诉你，因为我不了解自己；但可以肯定的是，这并不是因为（至少是在知情的情况下）违背了红衣主教先生的义务。”

‘You must, nevertheless, have committed a crime, since you are here and are accused of high treason.’
“无论如何，你一定犯了罪，因为你在这里并被指控犯有叛国罪。”

‘Of high treason!’ cried Bonacieux, terrified; ‘of high treason! How is it possible for a poor mercer, who detests Huguenots and who abhors Spaniards, to be accused of high treason? Consider, monsieur, the thing is absolutely impossible.’
“叛国罪！”博纳希厄惊恐地喊道。 ‘叛国罪！一个厌恶胡格诺派、憎恶西班牙人的可怜的商人，怎么可能被指控犯有叛国罪呢？想想吧，先生，这件事是绝对不可能的。”

‘Monsieur Bonacieux,’ said the commissary, looking at the accused as if his little eyes had the faculty of reading to the very depths of hearts, ‘you have a wife?’
“博纳希厄先生，”小卖部看着被告说道，仿佛他的小眼睛有能力读懂内心深处，“你有妻子吗？”

‘Yes, monsieur,’ replied the mercer, in a tremble, feeling that it was at this point affairs were likely to become perplexing; ‘that is to say, I HAD one.’
“是的，先生，”百货商颤抖着回答，他觉得事情到了这一步可能会变得扑朔迷离。 “也就是说，我有一个。”

‘What, you ‘had one’? What have you done with her, then, if you have her no longer?’
‘什么，你‘有一个’？如果你不再拥有她了，你对她做了什么？

‘They have abducted her, monsieur.’
“他们绑架了她，先生。”

‘They have abducted her? Ah!’
‘他们绑架了她？啊！'

Bonacieux inferred from this ‘Ah’ that the affair grew more and more intricate.
博纳希厄从这一声“啊”中推断，事情变得越来越复杂了。

‘They have abducted her,’ added the commissary; ‘and do you know the man who has committed this deed?’
“他们绑架了她，”小卖部补充道。 “你认识犯下这件事的人吗？”

‘I think I know him.’
“我想我认识他。”

‘Who is he?’
'他是谁？'

‘Remember that I affirm nothing, Monsieur the Commissary, and that I only suspect.’
“请记住，我没有证实任何事情，委员先生，我只是怀疑。”

‘Whom do you suspect? Come, answer freely.’
‘你怀疑谁？来吧，自由回答。

M. Bonacieux was in the greatest perplexity possible. Had he better deny everything or tell everything? By denying all, it might be suspected that he must know too much to avow; by confessing all he might prove his good will. He decided, then, to tell all.
博纳修先生感到非常困惑。他最好否认一切还是告诉一切？通过否认一切，人们可能会怀疑他一定知道得太多而无法承认。通过坦白一切，他可以证明他的善意。于是，他决定把一切都说出来。

‘I suspect,’ said he, ‘a tall, dark man, of lofty carriage, who has the air of a great lord. He has followed us several times, as I think, when I have waited for my wife at the wicket of the Louvre to escort her home.’
“我怀疑，”他说，“是一个身材高大、肤色黝黑、举止高贵的男人，有一种大领主的气质。我想，当我在卢浮宫的检票口等我的妻子护送她回家时，他跟踪了我们好几次。

The commissary now appeared to experience a little uneasiness.
小卖部现在显得有些不安。

‘And his name?’ said he.
“他叫什么名字？”他问道。

‘Oh, as to his name, I know nothing about it; but if I were ever to meet him, I should recognize him in an instant, I will answer for it, were he among a thousand persons.’
“哦，至于他的名字，我一无所知；但如果我有一天见到他，我会立刻认出他，如果他在一千个人中，我会对此负责。

The face of the commissary grew still darker.
小卖部的脸色更加阴沉了。

‘You should recognize him among a thousand, say you?’ continued he.
“你说，你应该在一千人中认出他吧？”他继续说道。

‘That is to say,’ cried Bonacieux, who saw he had taken a false step, ‘that is to say—‘
“这就是说，”博纳希厄发现他迈出了一步，大声喊道，“这就是说——”

‘You have answered that you should recognize him,’ said the commissary. ‘That is all very well, and enough for today; before we proceed further, someone must be informed that you know the ravisher of your wife.’
“你已经回答说你应该认得他，”小卖部说。 “这一切都很好，今天就足够了；在我们继续进行之前，必须通知某人您认识强奸您妻子的人。

‘But I have not told you that I know him!’ cried Bonacieux, in despair. ‘I told you, on the contrary—‘
“但我没有告诉过你我认识他！”博纳希厄绝望地喊道。 “我告诉过你，恰恰相反——”

‘Take away the prisoner,’ said the commissary to the two guards.
“把囚犯带走。”小卖部对两名看守说道。

‘Where must we place him?’ demanded the chief.
“我们必须把他安置在哪里？”酋长问道。

‘In a dungeon.’
“在地牢里。”

‘Which?’
'哪个？'

‘Good Lord! In the first one handy, provided it is safe,’ said the commissary, with an indifference which penetrated poor Bonacieux with horror.
‘天哪！第一个方便，只要它是安全的。”小卖部说道，他的冷漠态度让可怜的博纳希厄感到恐惧。

‘Alas, alas!’ said he to himself, ‘misfortune is over my head; my wife must have committed some frightful crime. They believe me her accomplice, and will punish me with her. She must have spoken; she must have confessed everything—a woman is so weak! A dungeon! The first he comes to! That’s it! A night is soon passed; and tomorrow to the wheel, to the gallows! Oh, my God, my God, have pity on me!’
“唉，唉！”他自言自语道，“不幸降临在我头上；我的妻子肯定犯下了一些可怕的罪行。他们相信我是她的同谋，并且会和她一起惩罚我。她肯定已经说话了；她肯定已经承认了一切——女人真是太软弱了！一个地牢！他第一个来的！就是这样！一夜很快就过去了；明天就到方向盘，到绞刑架！哦，我的上帝，我的上帝，可怜可怜我吧！

Without listening the least in the world to the lamentations of M. Bonacieux—lamentations to which, besides, they must have been pretty well accustomed—the two guards took the prisoner each by an arm, and led him away, while the commissary wrote a letter in haste and dispatched it by an officer in waiting.
两个看守完全没有听博纳西厄先生的哀悼——而且，他们一定已经很习惯这种哀悼了——两个看守各自抓住了囚犯的一只胳膊，把他带走了，而小卖部则写了一封信。这封信匆匆忙忙，由一名侍候的军官发出。

Bonacieux could not close his eyes; not because his dungeon was so very disagreeable, but because his uneasiness was so great. He sat all night on his stool, starting at the least noise; and when the first rays of the sun penetrated into his chamber, the dawn itself appeared to him to have taken funereal tints.
博纳希厄无法闭上眼睛；并不是因为他的地牢非常不舒服，而是因为他的不安感太大了。他整晚都坐在凳子上，只要有一点声响，他就会惊慌失措。当第一缕阳光照进他的房间时，黎明本身在他看来就带有了葬礼的色彩。

All at once he heard his bolts drawn, and made a terrified bound. He believed they were come to conduct him to the scaffold; so that when he saw merely and simply, instead of the executioner he expected, only his commissary of the preceding evening, attended by his clerk, he was ready to embrace them both.
突然，他听到门闩被拉开的声音，吓得跳了起来。他相信他们是来把他押上断头台的。因此，当他看到的不是他所期待的刽子手，而是前一天晚上的小卖部和他的职员时，他准备拥抱他们两个。

‘Your affair has become more complicated since yesterday evening, my good man, and I advise you to tell the whole truth; for your repentance alone can remove the anger of the cardinal.’
“从昨天晚上开始，你的事情变得更加复杂了，我的好人，我建议你说出全部真相；因为只有你的悔改才能消除红衣主教的愤怒。

‘Why, I am ready to tell everything,’ cried Bonacieux, ‘at least, all that I know. Interrogate me, I entreat you!’
“哎呀，我已经准备好讲述一切了，”博纳希厄喊道，“至少，我所知道的一切。”审问我，我恳求你！

‘Where is your wife, in the first place?’
“首先，你的妻子在哪里？”

‘Why, did not I tell you she had been stolen from me?’
“为什么，我没有告诉过你她被从我身边偷走了吗？”

‘Yes, but yesterday at five o’clock in the afternoon, thanks to you, she escaped.’
“是的，不过昨天下午五点，多亏了你，她才逃了出来。”

‘My wife escaped!’ cried Bonacieux. ‘Oh, unfortunate creature! Monsieur, if she has escaped, it is not my fault, I swear.’
“我的妻子逃走了！”博纳希厄喊道。 ‘哦，不幸的生物！先生，如果她逃走了，那不是我的错，我发誓。

‘What business had you, then, to go into the chamber of Monsieur d’Artagnan, your neighbor, with whom you had a long conference during the day?’
“那么，你白天和你的邻居达达尼昂先生进行了长时间的会议，你有什么责任去他的房间呢？”

‘Ah, yes, Monsieur Commissary; yes, that is true, and I confess that I was in the wrong. I did go to Monsieur d’Artagnan’s.’
“啊，是的，委员先生；是的，确实如此，我承认我错了。我确实去了达达尼昂先生家。”

‘What was the aim of that visit?’
“那次访问的目的是什么？”

‘To beg him to assist me in finding my wife. I believed I had a right to endeavor to find her. I was deceived, as it appears, and I ask your pardon.’
‘求他帮助我寻找我的妻子。我相信我有权利努力寻找她。看来我被骗了，请您原谅。

‘And what did Monsieur d’Artagnan reply?’
“达达尼昂先生是怎么回答的？”

‘Monsieur d’Artagnan promised me his assistance; but I soon found out that he was betraying me.’
“达达尼昂先生答应帮助我；”但我很快就发现他背叛了我。”

‘You impose upon justice. Monsieur d’Artagnan made a compact with you; and in virtue of that compact put to flight the police who had arrested your wife, and has placed her beyond reach.’
‘你强加正义。达达尼昂先生与您签订了契约；凭借这份契约，逮捕了你妻子的警察逃走了，并将她置于遥不可及的境地。”

‘Fortunately, Monsieur d’Artagnan is in our hands, and you shall be confronted with him.’
“幸运的是，达达尼昂先生在我们手中，你将会遇到他。”

‘By my faith, I ask no better,’ cried Bonacieux; ‘I shall not be sorry to see the face of an acquaintance.’
“凭着我的信仰，我别无所求，”博纳希厄喊道。 “看到熟人的脸我不会感到难过。”

‘Bring in the Monsieur d’Artagnan,’ said the commissary to the guards. The two guards led in Athos.
“把达达尼昂先生带进来，”小卖部对卫兵说。两名侍卫在阿托斯领头。

‘Monsieur d’Artagnan,’ said the commissary, addressing Athos, ‘declare all that passed yesterday between you and Monsieur.’
“达达尼昂先生，”小卖部对阿多斯说道，“请宣布昨天您和先生之间发生的一切。”

‘But,’ cried Bonacieux, ‘this is not Monsieur d’Artagnan whom you show me.’
“但是，”博纳希厄喊道，“这不是你给我看的达达尼昂先生。”

‘What! Not Monsieur d’Artagnan?’ exclaimed the commissary.
'什么！ “不是达达尼昂先生吗？”小卖部惊呼道。

‘Not the least in the world,’ replied Bonacieux.
“一点也不，”博纳希厄回答道。

‘What is this gentleman’s name?’ asked the commissary.
“这位先生叫什么名字？”小卖部问道。

‘I cannot tell you; I don’t know him.’
'我不能告诉你;我不认识他。

‘How! You don’t know him?’
'如何！你不认识他？

‘No.’
'不。'

‘Did you never see him?’
“你从来没有见过他吗？”

‘Yes, I have seen him, but I don’t know what he calls himself.’
“是的，我见过他，但我不知道他自称什么。”

‘Your name?’ replied the commissary.
“你叫什么名字？”小卖部回答道。

‘Athos,’ replied the Musketeer.
“阿托斯，”火枪手回答道。

‘But that is not a man’s name; that is the name of a mountain,’ cried the poor questioner, who began to lose his head.
“但这不是一个人的名字；那是一座山的名字。”可怜的提问者喊道，他开始失去了理智。

‘That is my name,’ said Athos, quietly.
“这是我的名字，”阿托斯轻声说道。

‘But you said that your name was d’Artagnan.’
“但你说过你的名字叫达达尼昂。”

‘Who, I?’
“谁，我？”

‘Yes, you.’
'是的，就是你。'

‘Somebody said to me, ‘You are Monsieur d’Artagnan?’ I answered, ‘You think so?’ My guards exclaimed that they were sure of it. I did not wish to contradict them; besides, I might be deceived.’
“有人对我说，‘你是达达尼昂先生？’我回答说，‘你这么认为吗？’我的卫兵惊呼道，他们确信这一点。我不想反驳他们。而且，我可能会被骗。

‘Monsieur, you insult the majesty of justice.’
“先生，你侮辱了正义的尊严。”

‘Not at all,’ said Athos, calmly.
“一点也不，”阿托斯平静地说。

‘You are Monsieur d’Artagnan.’
“你是达达尼昂先生。”

‘You see, monsieur, that you say it again.’
“您看，先生，您再说一遍。”

‘But I tell you, Monsieur Commissary,’ cried Bonacieux, in his turn, ‘there is not the least doubt about the matter. Monsieur d’Artagnan is my tenant, although he does not pay me my rent—and even better on that account ought I to know him. Monsieur d’Artagnan is a young man, scarcely nineteen or twenty, and this gentleman must be thirty at least. Monsieur d’Artagnan is in Monsieur Dessessart’s Guards, and this gentleman is in the company of Monsieur de Treville’s Musketeers. Look at his uniform, Monsieur Commissary, look at his uniform!’
“但是我告诉你，委员先生，”博纳瑟克斯喊道，“这件事毫无疑问。达达尼昂先生是我的房客，尽管他不付我房租——而且如果我认识他的话就更好了。达达尼昂先生是个年轻人，还不到十九岁或二十岁，而这位先生至少也有三十岁了。达达尼昂先生在德塞萨尔先生的近卫军中，而这位绅士则在德特雷维尔先生的火枪手的陪伴下。看看他的制服，小卖部先生，看看他的制服！”

‘That’s true,’ murmured the commissary; ‘PARDIEU, that’s true.’
“确实如此，”小卖部低声说道。 “帕迪厄，确实如此。”

At this moment the door was opened quickly, and a messenger, introduced by one of the gatekeepers of the Bastille, gave a letter to the commissary.
这时，门很快被打开，由巴士底狱守门人介绍的一名信使将一封信交给了小卖部。

‘Oh, unhappy woman!’ cried the commissary.
“哦，不幸的女人！”小卖部喊道。

‘How? What do you say? Of whom do you speak? It is not of my wife, I hope!’
'如何？你怎么说？你说的是谁？我希望这不是我妻子的！”

‘On the contrary, it is of her. Yours is a pretty business.’
‘恰恰相反，是她的。你的生意很不错。

‘But,’ said the agitated mercer, ‘do me the pleasure, monsieur, to tell me how my own proper affair can become worse by anything my wife does while I am in prison?’
“但是，”商人激动地说，“先生，请告诉我，我妻子在监狱里做的任何事，都会让我自己的私事变得更糟吗？”

‘Because that which she does is part of a plan concerted between you—of an infernal plan.’
“因为她所做的事情是你们之间共同制定的计划的一部分——一个地狱计划的一部分。”

‘I swear to you, Monsieur Commissary, that you are in the profoundest error, that I know nothing in the world about what my wife had to do, that I am entirely a stranger to what she has done; and that if she has committed any follies, I renounce her, I abjure her, I curse her!’
“我向您发誓，委员先生，您犯了最严重的错误，我对我妻子必须做什么一无所知，我对她所做的事情完全陌生；如果她犯了任何愚蠢的事，我就会抛弃她，我发誓，我诅咒她！

‘Bah!’ said Athos to the commissary, ‘if you have no more need of me, send me somewhere. Your Monsieur Bonacieux is very tiresome.’
“呸！”阿托斯对小卖部说，“如果你不再需要我了，就派我去某个地方吧。”你的博纳西厄先生很烦人。

The commissary designated by the same gesture Athos and Bonacieux, ‘Let them be guarded more closely than ever.’
阿托斯和博纳希厄以同样的手势指定了小卖部，“让他们比以往任何时候都受到更严密的保护。”

‘And yet,’ said Athos, with his habitual calmness, ‘if it be Monsieur d’Artagnan who is concerned in this matter, I do not perceive how I can take his place.’
“然而，”阿托斯一如既往地冷静地说，“如果是达达尼昂先生关心这件事，我不知道我该如何取代他的位置。”

‘Do as I bade you,’ cried the commissary, ‘and preserve absolute secrecy. You understand!’
“照我吩咐的去做，”小卖部喊道，“并绝对保密。”你明白！'

Athos shrugged his shoulders, and followed his guards silently, while M. Bonacieux uttered lamentations enough to break the heart of a tiger.
阿多斯耸耸肩，默默地跟着他的卫兵走去，而博纳希厄先生则发出了足以让老虎心碎的哀叹。

They locked the mercer in the same dungeon where he had passed the night, and left him to himself during the day. Bonacieux wept all day, like a true mercer, not being at all a military man, as he himself informed us. In the evening, about nine o’clock, at the moment he had made up his mind to go to bed, he heard steps in his corridor. These steps drew near to his dungeon, the door was thrown open, and the guards appeared.
他们把布商锁在他过夜的那个地牢里，白天就让他一个人呆着。博纳希厄整天都在哭泣，就像一个真正的商人，正如他自己告诉我们的那样，他根本不是一个军人。晚上九点左右，正当他决定上床睡觉的时候，走廊里传来了脚步声。这些台阶已经接近他的地牢了，门被推开，守卫出现了。

‘Follow me,’ said an officer, who came up behind the guards.
“跟我来，”一名军官走到警卫身后说道。

‘Follow you!’ cried Bonacieux, ‘follow you at this hour! Where, my God?’
“跟着你！”博纳希厄喊道，“这个时候跟着你！”在哪里，我的上帝？

‘Where we have orders to lead you.’
“我们奉命带你去哪里。”

‘But that is not an answer.’
“但这不是答案。”

‘It is, nevertheless, the only one we can give.’
“尽管如此，这是我们唯一能给予的。”

‘Ah, my God, my God!’ murmured the poor mercer, ‘now, indeed, I am lost!’ And he followed the guards who came for him, mechanically and without resistance.
“啊，我的上帝，我的上帝！”可怜的商人低声说道，“现在，我确实迷路了！”然后他机械地、毫无抵抗地跟着那些来找他的卫兵。

He passed along the same corridor as before, crossed one court, then a second side of a building; at length, at the gate of the entrance court he found a carriage surrounded by four guards on horseback. They made him enter this carriage, the officer placed himself by his side, the door was locked, and they were left in a rolling prison. The carriage was put in motion as slowly as a funeral car. Through the closely fastened windows the prisoner could perceive the houses and the pavement, that was all; but, true Parisian as he was, Bonacieux could recognize every street by the milestones, the signs, and the lamps. At the moment of arriving at St. Paul—the spot where such as were condemned at the Bastille were executed—he was near fainting and crossed himself twice. He thought the carriage was about to stop there. The carriage, however, passed on.
他和以前一样沿着同一条走廊，穿过一个庭院，然后又穿过一座建筑物的另一侧；最后，他在门庭门口发现了一辆马车，周围有四个骑着马的侍卫。他们让他进入这辆马车，军官站在他身边，车门锁着，他们被留在滚动的监狱里。马车像殡仪车一样缓慢地行驶着。透过紧闭的窗户，囚犯可以看到房屋和人行道，仅此而已。但是，博纳西厄是真正的巴黎人，他可以通过里程碑、标志和路灯认出每条街道。当到达圣保罗——巴士底狱中被判死刑的人被处决的地方——的那一刻，他几乎要晕倒了，在身上画了两个十字。他以为马车就要停在那里了。然而马车却继续前行。

Farther on, a still greater terror seized him on passing by the cemetery of St. Jean, where state criminals were buried. One thing, however, reassured him; he remembered that before they were buried their heads were generally cut off, and he felt that his head was still on his shoulders. But when he saw the carriage take the way to La Greve, when he perceived the pointed roof of the Hotel de Ville, and the carriage passed under the arcade, he believed it was over with him. He wished to confess to the officer, and upon his refusal, uttered such pitiable cries that the officer told him that if he continued to deafen him thus, he should put a gag in his mouth.
再往前走，当他经过埋葬着国家罪犯的圣让公墓时，一种更大的恐惧抓住了他。然而，有一件事让他放心了：他记得在下葬之前，他们的头一般都被砍掉了，他感觉自己的头还在自己的肩膀上。但当他看到马车驶向拉格雷夫时，当他看到市政厅的尖屋顶时，当马车经过拱廊时，他相信他已经结束了。他想向警官坦白，但他拒绝了，他发出了如此可怜的哭声，警官告诉他，如果他继续这样把他震聋，就应该用塞子塞住他的嘴。

This measure somewhat reassured Bonacieux. If they meant to execute him at La Greve, it could scarcely be worth while to gag him, as they had nearly reached the place of execution. Indeed, the carriage crossed the fatal spot without stopping. There remained, then, no other place to fear but the Traitor’s Cross; the carriage was taking the direct road to it.
这一举措多少让博纳希厄放心了。如果他们打算在拉格雷夫处决他，那么几乎不值得堵住他的嘴，因为他们已经快到达行刑地点了。果然，马车没有停留就穿过了致命地点。那么，除了叛徒十字架之外，就没有其他地方值得害怕了。马车正走直达那儿的路。

This time there was no longer any doubt; it was at the Traitor’s Cross that lesser criminals were executed. Bonacieux had flattered himself in believing himself worthy of St. Paul or of the Place de Greve; it was at the Traitor’s Cross that his journey and his destiny were about to end! He could not yet see that dreadful cross, but he felt somehow as if it were coming to meet him. When he was within twenty paces of it, he heard a noise of people and the carriage stopped. This was more than poor Bonacieux could endure, depressed as he was by the successive emotions which he had experienced; he uttered a feeble groan which night have been taken for the last sigh of a dying man, and fainted.
这一次，不再有任何疑问；较轻的罪犯就是在叛徒十字架上被处决的。博纳希厄自以为配得上圣保罗或格雷夫广场，因此沾沾自喜。他的旅程和命运即将在叛徒十字架处结束！他还看不到那个可怕的十字架，但不知怎么的，他感觉它好像正在迎面而来。走到二十步不到的时候，就听见人声鼎沸，马车停了下来。可怜的博纳修克斯无法忍受，因为他所经历的接二连三的情绪让他感到沮丧。他发出一声微弱的呻吟，那晚被认为是一个垂死之人​​的最后一声叹息，然后就昏了过去。

14 THE MAN OF MEUNG
14 孟人

The crowd was caused, not by the expectation of a man to be hanged, but by the contemplation of a man who was hanged.
人群的聚集并不是因为对一个人被绞死的期待，而是因为一个被绞死的人的沉思。

The carriage, which had been stopped for a minute, resumed its way, passed through the crowd, threaded the Rue St. Honore, turned into the Rue des Bons Enfants, and stopped before a low door.
停了一会儿的马车又继续前行，穿过人群，穿过圣奥诺雷街，拐进好孩子街，在一扇低矮的门前停了下来。

The door opened; two guards received Bonacieux in their arms from the officer who supported him. They carried him through an alley, up a flight of stairs, and deposited him in an antechamber.
门开了；两名警卫从支持他的军官手中接过博纳希厄。他们把他抬过一条小巷，爬上一段楼梯，然后把他安置在前厅里。

All these movements had been effected mechanically, as far as he was concerned. He had walked as one walks in a dream; he had a glimpse of objects as through a fog. His ears had perceived sounds without comprehending them; he might have been executed at that moment without his making a single gesture in his own defense or uttering a cry to implore mercy.
在他看来，所有这些动作都是机械地进行的。他的行走就像在梦中行走一样；他仿佛透过雾气瞥见了物体。他的耳朵感知到了声音，但却无法理解它们；如果他没有做出任何自卫的动作，或者发出求饶的呼喊，他可能在那一刻就被处决了。

He remained on the bench, with his back leaning against the wall and his hands hanging down, exactly on the spot where the guards placed him.
他仍然坐在长凳上，背靠着墙，双手垂下，就在警卫放置他的位置上。

On looking around him, however, as he could perceive no threatening object, as nothing indicated that he ran any real danger, as the bench was comfortably covered with a well-stuffed cushion, as the wall was ornamented with a beautiful Cordova leather, and as large red damask curtains, fastened back by gold clasps, floated before the window, he perceived by degrees that his fear was exaggerated, and he began to turn his head to the right and the left, upward and downward.
然而，环顾四周，他发现没有任何威胁性的物体，没有任何迹象表明他遇到了任何真正的危险，长凳上舒适地铺着填充物丰富的垫子，墙壁上装饰着漂亮的科尔多瓦皮革，而且当用金色扣子扣紧的红色大马士革窗帘飘在窗前时，他逐渐意识到自己的恐惧被夸大了，他开始左右、向上和向下转动头。

At this movement, which nobody opposed, he resumed a little courage, and ventured to draw up one leg and then the other. At length, with the help of his two hands he lifted himself from the bench, and found himself on his feet.
看到这个没有人反对的举动，他又恢复了一点勇气，大胆地把一条腿伸出来，然后又伸出了另一条腿。最后，他用两只手从长凳上站了起来，站了起来。

At this moment an officer with a pleasant face opened a door, continued to exchange some words with a person in the next chamber and then came up to the prisoner. ‘Is your name Bonacieux?’ said he.
这时，一名面容和善的军官打开了门，继续与隔壁房间的一个人交谈了几句，然后走到了犯人面前。 “你叫博纳西厄吗？”他问道。

‘Yes, Monsieur Officer,’ stammered the mercer, more dead than alive, ‘at your service.’
“是的，军官先生，”布商结结巴巴地说道，“听候您的吩咐。”

‘Come in,’ said the officer.
“进来吧，”军官说。

And he moved out of the way to let the mercer pass. The latter obeyed without reply, and entered the chamber, where he appeared to be expected.
他让开一条路，让布商通过。后者没有回答，就服从了，走进了房间，似乎是在等他。

It was a large cabinet, close and stifling, with the walls furnished with arms offensive and defensive, and in which there was already a fire, although it was scarcely the end of the month of September. A square table, covered with books and papers, upon which was unrolled an immense plan of the city of La Rochelle, occupied the center of the room.
那是一个大内阁，封闭而令人窒息，墙壁上布满了进攻性和防御性的武器，尽管还不到九月末，里面已经起火了。一张方桌占据了房间的中央，上面摆满了书籍和文件，上面展开了拉罗谢尔市的巨大平面图。

Standing before the chimney was a man of middle height, of a haughty, proud mien; with piercing eyes, a large brow, and a thin face, which was made still longer by a ROYAL (or IMPERIAL, as it is now called), surmounted by a pair of mustaches. Although this man was scarcely thirty-six or thirty-seven years of age, hair, mustaches, and royal, all began to be gray. This man, except a sword, had all the appearance of a soldier; and his buff boots still slightly covered with dust, indicated that he had been on horseback in the course of the day.
烟囱前站着一个中等身材的男人，神态傲慢、傲慢。眼睛锐利，眉毛浓密，脸瘦削，被皇室（或现在称为帝国）弄得更长，上面留着一对小胡子。虽然这个男人还不到三十六、三十七岁，但头发、胡子、皇室，都开始花白了。这个人，除了一把剑之外，完全就是一个军人的模样。他的浅黄色靴子上还沾满了灰尘，这表明他白天一直在骑马。

This man was Armand Jean Duplessis, Cardinal de Richelieu; not such as he is now represented—broken down like an old man, suffering like a martyr, his body bent, his voice failing, buried in a large armchair as in an anticipated tomb; no longer living but by the strength of his genius, and no longer maintaining the struggle with Europe but by the eternal application of his thoughts—but such as he really was at this period; that is to say, an active and gallant cavalier, already weak of body, but sustained by that moral power which made of him one of the most extraordinary men that ever lived, preparing, after having supported the Duc de Nevers in his duchy of Mantua, after having taken Nimes, Castres, and Uzes, to drive the English from the Isle of Re and lay siege to La Rochelle.
这个人就是黎塞留红衣主教阿尔芒·让·杜普莱西 (Armand Jean Duplessis)。他不像现在所描绘的那样——像一个老人一样崩溃，像一个烈士一样受苦，他的身体弯曲，声音嘶哑，埋在一张大扶手椅里，就像埋在一座预期的坟墓里一样；不再依靠他的天才的力量来生活，也不再依靠他的思想的永恒应用来维持与欧洲的斗争——但就像他在这个时期的真实情况一样；也就是说，一位积极而英勇的骑士，身体本来就很虚弱，但他的道德力量使他成为有史以来最非凡的人之一，在支持内韦尔公爵曼图亚公国之后，他正在做好准备在占领尼姆、卡斯特尔和于泽斯后，将英国人赶出雷岛并围攻拉罗谢尔。

At first sight, nothing denoted the cardinal; and it was impossible for those who did not know his face to guess in whose presence they were.
乍一看，没有任何迹象表明是红衣主教。那些不认识他面孔的人不可能猜出他们是谁。

The poor mercer remained standing at the door, while the eyes of the personage we have just described were fixed upon him, and appeared to wish to penetrate even into the depths of the past.
可怜的默瑟仍然站在门口，而我们刚才描述的那个人物的眼睛却盯着他，似乎想要穿透过去的深处。

‘Is this that Bonacieux?’ asked he, after a moment of silence.
“这就是博纳希厄吗？”沉默了一会儿后，他问道。

‘Yes, monseigneur,’ replied the officer.
“是的，大人，”军官回答道。

‘That’s well. Give me those papers, and leave us.’
‘那就好。把那些文件给我，然后离开我们。

The officer took from the table the papers pointed out, gave them to him who asked for them, bowed to the ground, and retired.
军官从桌子上取出了指出的文件，交给了索要文件的人，然后跪倒在地，然后退了出去。

Bonacieux recognized in these papers his interrogatories of the Bastille. From time to time the man by the chimney raised his eyes from the writings, and plunged them like poniards into the heart of the poor mercer.
博纳瑟在这些文件中承认了他对巴士底狱的质询。烟囱旁的那个人时不时地把目光从那些文字上抬起来，把它们像短剑一样扎进可怜的商人的心里。

At the end of ten minutes of reading and ten seconds of examination, the cardinal was satisfied.
十分钟的阅读和十秒钟的检查结束后，红衣主教感到满意。

‘That head has never conspired,’ murmured he, ‘but it matters not; we will see.’
“那个头从来没有密谋过，”他低声说道，“但这并不重要；我们会看到。'

‘You are accused of high treason,’ said the cardinal, slowly.
“你被指控犯有叛国罪，”红衣主教慢慢地说。

‘So I have been told already, monseigneur,’ cried Bonacieux, giving his interrogator the title he had heard the officer give him, ‘but I swear to you that I know nothing about it.’
“大人，已经有人告诉我了，”博纳希厄喊道，同时向审讯者提供了他听到警官给他起的头衔，“但我向你发誓，我对此一无所知。”

The cardinal repressed a smile.
红衣主教强忍着笑容。

‘You have conspired with your wife, with Madame de Chevreuse, and with my Lord Duke of Buckingham.’
“你和你的妻子、谢弗勒斯夫人以及白金汉公爵大人密谋。”

‘Indeed, monseigneur,’ responded the mercer, ‘I have heard her pronounce all those names.’
“确实，大人，”商人回答道，“我听她念过所有这些名字。”

‘And on what occasion?’
“什么场合？”

‘She said that the Cardinal de Richelieu had drawn the Duke of Buckingham to Paris to ruin him and to ruin the queen.’
“她说红衣主教黎塞留把白金汉公爵拉到巴黎来毁掉他，也毁掉王后。”

‘She said that?’ cried the cardinal, with violence.
“她这么说的？”红衣主教大声喊道。

‘Yes, monseigneur, but I told her she was wrong to talk about such things; and that his Eminence was incapable—‘
“是的，大人，但我告诉她，谈论这些事情是错误的；而且陛下没有能力——”

‘Hold your tongue! You are stupid,’ replied the cardinal.
‘住嘴！你很愚蠢，”红衣主教回答道。

‘That’s exactly what my wife said, monseigneur.’
“大人，我妻子就是这么说的。”

‘Do you know who carried off your wife?’
“你知道是谁抢走了你的妻子吗？”

‘No, monseigneur.’
“不，大人。”

‘You have suspicions, nevertheless?’
“不过你还是有怀疑吗？”

‘Yes, monseigneur; but these suspicions appeared to be disagreeable to Monsieur the Commissary, and I no longer have them.’
“是的，大人；但委员先生似乎不同意这些怀疑，我不再有这样的怀疑了。

‘Your wife has escaped. Did you know that?’
‘你的妻子逃走了。你知道吗？'

‘No, monseigneur. I learned it since I have been in prison, and that from the conversation of Monsieur the Commissary—an amiable man.’
“不，大人。我是从进监狱后，从委员先生——一位和蔼可亲的人——的谈话中得知这一点的。

The cardinal repressed another smile.
红衣主教又忍住笑意。

‘Then you are ignorant of what has become of your wife since her flight.’
“那么你对你妻子逃亡后的情况一无所知。”

‘Absolutely, monseigneur; but she has most likely returned to the Louvre.’
“当然可以，大人；但她很可能已经回到了卢浮宫。”

‘At one o’clock this morning she had not returned.’
“今天凌晨一点，她还没有回来。”

‘My God! What can have become of her, then?’
'我的上帝！那么她会怎么样呢？

‘We shall know, be assured. Nothing is concealed from the cardinal; the cardinal knows everything.’
‘我们会知道的，放心吧。红衣主教没有什么可以隐瞒的。红衣主教知道一切。

‘In that case, monseigneur, do you believe the cardinal will be so kind as to tell me what has become of my wife?’
“那么，大人，您相信红衣主教会好心告诉我我妻子的情况吗？”

‘Perhaps he may; but you must, in the first place, reveal to the cardinal all you know of your wife’s relations with Madame de Chevreuse.’
“也许他可以；但首先，你必须向红衣主教透露你所知道的关于你妻子与谢夫勒斯夫人关系的一切。

‘But, monseigneur, I know nothing about them; I have never seen her.’
“但是，大人，我对他们一无所知；我从来没有见过她。

‘When you went to fetch your wife from the Louvre, did you always return directly home?’
“当你去卢浮宫接妻子时，你总是直接回家吗？”

‘Scarcely ever; she had business to transact with linen drapers, to whose houses I conducted her.’
‘几乎从来没有；她有生意要和亚麻布商做生意，我带她去了他们的家。

‘And how many were there of these linen drapers?’
“这些亚麻布布有多少？”

‘Two, monseigneur.’
“两个，大人。”

‘And where did they live?’
“他们住在哪里？”

‘One in Rue de Vaugirard, the other Rue de la Harpe.’
“一个在沃吉拉尔街，另一个在拉哈普街。”

‘Did you go into these houses with her?’
“你和她一起进过这些房子吗？”

‘Never, monseigneur; I waited at the door.’
“从来没有，大人；我在门口等着。

‘And what excuse did she give you for entering all alone?’
“她给你找了什么借口让你独自进去？”

‘She gave me none; she told me to wait, and I waited.’
“她什么也没给我；她让我等一下，我就等了。”

‘You are a very complacent husband, my dear Monsieur Bonacieux,’ said the cardinal.
“我亲爱的博纳西厄先生，你是一个非常自满的丈夫，”红衣主教说。

‘He calls me his dear Monsieur,’ said the mercer to himself. ‘PESTE! Matters are going all right.’
“他称我为他亲爱的先生，”布商自言自语道。 ‘瘟疫！事情进展顺利。

‘Should you know those doors again?’
“你应该再认识那些门吗？”

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘Do you know the numbers?’
“你知道数字吗？”

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘What are they?’
'这些是什么？'

‘No. 25 in the Rue de Vaugirard; 75 in the Rue de la Harpe.’
'不。 25 位于沃吉拉尔街 (Rue de Vaugirard)； 75号，位于Rue de la Harpe。

‘That’s well,’ said the cardinal.
“那就好，”红衣主教说。

At these words he took up a silver bell, and rang it; the officer entered.
说完，他拿起一个银铃，摇响了。军官进来了。

‘Go,’ said he, in a subdued voice, ‘and find Rochefort. Tell him to come to me immediately, if he has returned.’
“去吧，”他用低沉的声音说道，“去找罗什福尔。”如果他回来了，请告诉他立即来找我。

‘The count is here,’ said the officer, ‘and requests to speak with your Eminence instantly.’
“伯爵来了，”军官说道，“要求立即与阁下通话。”

‘Let him come in, then!’ said the cardinal, quickly.
“那就让他进来吧！”红衣主教迅速说道。

The officer sprang out of the apartment with that alacrity which all the servants of the cardinal displayed in obeying him.
军官像红衣主教的所有仆人都表现出的那样敏捷地从公寓里跳了出来。

‘To your Eminence!’ murmured Bonacieux, rolling his eyes round in astonishment.
“尊敬的陛下！”博纳希厄低声说道，惊讶地翻白眼。

Five seconds has scarcely elapsed after the disappearance of the officer, when the door opened, and a new personage entered.
军官消失后还不到五秒钟，门就打开了，进来了一个新的人物。

‘It is he!’ cried Bonacieux.
“是他！”博纳希厄喊道。

‘He! What he?’ asked the cardinal.
'他！ “他是什么？”红衣主教问道。

‘The man who abducted my wife.’
“绑架我妻子的人。”

The cardinal rang a second time. The officer reappeared.
红衣主教第二次按响了电话。军官又出现了。

‘Place this man in the care of his guards again, and let him wait till I send for him.’
“把这个人再次交给卫兵看管，让他等我派人去叫他。”

‘No, monseigneur, no, it is not he!’ cried Bonacieux; ‘no, I was deceived. This is quite another man, and does not resemble him at all. Monsieur is, I am sure, an honest man.’
“不，大人，不，不是他！”博纳希厄喊道。 ‘不，我被骗了。这完全是另外一个人，一点也不像他。我确信先生是一个诚实的人。

‘Take away that fool!’ said the cardinal.
“带走那个傻瓜！”红衣主教说道。

The officer took Bonacieux by the arm, and led him into the antechamber, where he found his two guards.
军官抓住博纳希厄的手臂，带他进入前厅，在那里他找到了两名警卫。

The newly introduced personage followed Bonacieux impatiently with his eyes till he had gone out; and the moment the door closed, ‘They have seen each other;’ said he, approaching the cardinal eagerly.
新介绍的人物不耐烦地用目光追随着博纳希厄，直到他走出去。门一关上，他就急切地走近红衣主教，说道：“他们已经见过面了。”

‘Who?’ asked his Eminence.
“谁？”主教大人问道。

‘He and she.’
'他和她。'

‘The queen and the duke?’ cried Richelieu.
“王后和公爵？”黎塞留喊道。

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘Where?’
'在哪里？'

‘At the Louvre.’
“在卢浮宫。”

‘Are you sure of it?’
“你确定吗？”

‘Perfectly sure.’
“完全确定。”

‘Who told you of it?’
“谁告诉你的？”

‘Madame de Lannoy, who is devoted to your Eminence, as you know.’
“如您所知，德·兰努瓦夫人是您的忠实拥护者。”

‘Why did she not let me know sooner?’
“她为什么不早点告诉我？”

‘Whether by chance or mistrust, the queen made Madame de Surgis sleep in her chamber, and detained her all day.’
“无论是偶然还是不信任，王后让德·苏吉斯夫人睡在她的房间里，并扣留了她一整天。”

‘Well, we are beaten! Now let us try to take our revenge.’
‘好吧，我们被打败了！现在让我们尝试报仇。

‘I will assist you with all my heart, monseigneur; be assured of that.’
“我将全心全意地帮助您，大人；请放心。”

‘How did it come about?’
“它是怎么发生的？”

‘At half past twelve the queen was with her women—‘
“十二点半，女王和她的女人们在一起——”

‘Where?’
'在哪里？'

‘In her bedchamber—‘
“在她的卧室里——”

‘Go on.’
'继续。'

‘When someone came and brought her a handkerchief from her laundress.’
“当有人过来从洗衣店给她拿来一块手帕时。”

‘And then?’
'进而？'

‘The queen immediately exhibited strong emotion; and despite the rouge with which her face was covered evidently turned pale—‘
'女王立即表现出强烈的情绪；尽管她的脸上涂了胭脂，但她的脸显然变得苍白了——”

‘And then, and then?’
“然后，然后？”

‘She then arose, and with altered voice, ‘Ladies,’ said she, ‘wait for me ten minutes, I shall soon return.’ She then opened the door of her alcove, and went out.’
“然后她站起来，用不同的声音说，‘女士们，’她说，‘等我十分钟，我很快就会回来。’然后她打开壁龛的门，走了出去。”

‘Why did not Madame de Lannoy come and inform you instantly?’
“为什么德兰努瓦夫人没有立即过来通知您？”

‘Nothing was certain; besides, her Majesty had said, ‘Ladies, wait for me,’ and she did not dare to disobey the queen.’
“没有什么是确定的；况且，太后说了‘诸位女士等我’，她也不敢忤逆太后。”

‘How long did the queen remain out of the chamber?’
“女王在房间外呆了多久？”

‘Three-quarters of an hour.’
“三刻钟。”

‘None of her women accompanied her?’
“她的女人没有一个陪着她吗？”

‘Only Donna Estafania.’
“只有唐娜·埃斯塔法尼亚。”

‘Did she afterward return?’
“她后来回来了吗？”

‘Yes; but only to take a little rosewood casket, with her cipher upon it, and went out again immediately.’
'是的;但只是拿了一个小红木棺材，上面有她的密码，然后立即又出去了。

‘And when she finally returned, did she bring that casket with her?’
“当她最终回来时，她带了那个棺材吗？”

‘No.’
'不。'

‘Does Madame de Lannoy know what was in that casket?’
“德兰努瓦夫人知道棺材里装的是什么吗？”

‘Yes; the diamond studs which his Majesty gave the queen.’
'是的;国王陛下送给女王的钻石耳钉。”

‘And she came back without this casket?’
“她回来时没有带这个棺材吗？”

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘Madame de Lannoy, then, is of opinion that she gave them to Buckingham?’
“那么，德兰努瓦夫人认为她把它们送给了白金汉宫吗？”

‘She is sure of it.’
“她确信这一点。”

‘How can she be so?’
“她怎么会这样？”

‘In the course of the day Madame de Lannoy, in her quality of tire-woman of the queen, looked for this casket, appeared uneasy at not finding it, and at length asked information of the queen.’
“这一天，德·兰努瓦夫人以她女王的疲倦女人的品质寻找这个棺材，似乎对找不到它感到不安，最后询问了女王的信息。”

‘And then the queen?’
“那么女王呢？”

‘The queen became exceedingly red, and replied that having in the evening broken one of those studs, she had sent it to her goldsmith to be repaired.’
“女王的脸涨得通红，她回答说，晚上弄坏了其中一颗钉子，她已将其送到金匠处修理。”

‘He must be called upon, and so ascertain if the thing be true or not.’
“必须叫他来，以确定这件事是否属实。”

‘I have just been with him.’
“我刚刚和他在一起。”

‘And the goldsmith?’
“金匠呢？”

‘The goldsmith has heard nothing of it.’
“金匠什么也没听说过。”

‘Well, well! Rochefort, all is not lost; and perhaps—perhaps everything is for the best.’
'好吧！罗什福尔，一切并没有失去；也许——也许一切都是最好的。

‘The fact is that I do not doubt your Eminence’s genius—‘
“事实上，我并不怀疑阁下的天才——”

‘Will repair the blunders of his agent—is that it?’
“将弥补他经纪人的错误——是这样吗？”

‘That is exactly what I was going to say, if your Eminence had let me finish my sentence.’
“如果陛下让我把话说完的话，这正是我要说的。”

‘Meanwhile, do you know where the Duchesse de Chevreuse and the Duke of Buckingham are now concealed?’
“同时，你知道谢弗勒斯公爵夫人和白金汉公爵现在藏在哪里吗？”

‘No, monseigneur; my people could tell me nothing on that head.’
“不，大人；我的人无法告诉我关于这个问题的任何信息。

‘But I know.’
'但我知道。'

‘You, monseigneur?’
“您，大人？”

‘Yes; or at least I guess. They were, one in the Rue de Vaugirard, No. 25; the other in the Rue de la Harpe, No. 75.’
'是的;或者至少我猜。其中一间位于沃日拉街 25 号；另一间位于沃吉拉街 25 号；另一个位于拉哈普街 (Rue de la Harpe) 75 号。

‘Does your Eminence command that they both be instantly arrested?’
“大人是否下令立即逮捕他们两人？”

‘It will be too late; they will be gone.’
‘那就太晚了；他们会消失的。

‘But still, we can make sure that they are so.’
“但是，我们仍然可以确保他们确实如此。”

‘Take ten men of my Guardsmen, and search the two houses thoroughly.’
“带十名我的卫兵，彻底搜查这两座房子。”

‘Instantly, monseigneur.’ And Rochefort went hastily out of the apartment.
“立刻，大人。”罗什福尔急忙走出公寓。

The cardinal being left alone, reflected for an instant and then rang the bell a third time. The same officer appeared.
红衣主教独自一人，沉思片刻，然后第三次按响了门铃。同一个军官出现了。

‘Bring the prisoner in again,’ said the cardinal.
“把囚犯再带进来，”红衣主教说道。

M. Bonacieux was introduced afresh, and upon a sign from the cardinal, the officer retired.
博纳西厄先生再次被介绍，在红衣主教示意后，军官退休了。

‘You have deceived me!’ said the cardinal, sternly.
“你欺骗了我！”红衣主教严厉地说。

‘I,’ cried Bonacieux, ‘I deceive your Eminence!’
“我，”博纳希厄喊道，“我欺骗了大人！”

‘Your wife, in going to Rue de Vaugirard and Rue de la Harpe, did not go to find linen drapers.’
“你的妻子去沃日拉尔街和拉哈普街时，并没有去找亚麻布店。”

‘Then why did she go, just God?’
“那她为什么要走呢，上帝啊？”

‘She went to meet the Duchesse de Chevreuse and the Duke of Buckingham.’
“她去见了谢夫勒斯公爵夫人和白金汉公爵。”

‘Yes,’ cried Bonacieux, recalling all his remembrances of the circumstances, ‘yes, that’s it. Your Eminence is right. I told my wife several times that it was surprising that linen drapers should live in such houses as those, in houses that had no signs; but she always laughed at me. Ah, monseigneur!’ continued Bonacieux, throwing himself at his Eminence’s feet, ‘ah, how truly you are the cardinal, the great cardinal, the man of genius whom all the world reveres!’
“是的，”博纳希厄回忆起他对当时情况的所有记忆，喊道，“是的，就是这样。”陛下说得对。我多次告诉我的妻子，令人惊讶的是，亚麻布商居然住在这样的房子里，住在没有任何标志的房子里；但她总是嘲笑我。啊，大人！”博纳希厄继续说道，跪倒在主教阁下的脚下，“啊，您真是红衣主教，伟大的红衣主教，全世界都尊敬的天才！”

The cardinal, however contemptible might be the triumph gained over so vulgar a being as Bonacieux, did not the less enjoy it for an instant; then, almost immediately, as if a fresh thought has occurred, a smile played upon his lips, and he said, offering his hand to the mercer, ‘Rise, my friend, you are a worthy man.’
红衣主教虽然战胜了像博纳希厄这样庸俗的人，虽然取得了多么可鄙的胜利，但他仍然片刻地享受着这一胜利。然后，几乎立刻，仿佛出现了一个新的想法，他的嘴唇上露出了微笑，他向布商伸出了手，说道：“站起来，我的朋友，你是一个值得尊敬的人。”

‘The cardinal has touched me with his hand! I have touched the hand of the great man!’ cried Bonacieux. ‘The great man has called me his friend!’
‘红衣主教用手碰了我！我已经触摸了这位伟人的手！”博纳希厄喊道。 “这位伟人称我为他的朋友！”

‘Yes, my friend, yes,’ said the cardinal, with that paternal tone which he sometimes knew how to assume, but which deceived none who knew him; ‘and as you have been unjustly suspected, well, you must be indemnified. Here, take this purse of a hundred pistoles, and pardon me.’
“是的，我的朋友，是的，”红衣主教说，他有时会用一种父亲般的语气说，但这种语气没有欺骗任何认识他的人。 ‘既然你受到了不公正的怀疑，那么你必须得到赔偿。在这里，请收下这个一百皮斯托尔的钱包，请原谅我。”

‘I pardon you, monseigneur!’ said Bonacieux, hesitating to take the purse, fearing, doubtless, that this pretended gift was but a pleasantry. ‘But you are able to have me arrested, you are able to have me tortured, you are able to have me hanged; you are the master, and I could not have the least word to say. Pardon you, monseigneur! You cannot mean that!’
“我原谅您，大人！”博纳希厄说，犹豫着是否要拿钱包，他无疑担心这个假装的礼物只是一种玩笑。 ‘但是你可以逮捕我，你可以折磨我，你可以绞死我；你是主人，我无话可说。恕我直言，大人！你不可能是这个意思！

‘Ah, my dear Monsieur Bonacieux, you are generous in this matter. I see it and I thank you for it. Thus, then, you will take this bag, and you will go away without being too malcontent.’
“啊，亲爱的博纳西厄先生，您在这件事上很慷慨。我看到了，我为此感谢你。那么，你就拿着这个袋子，走开吧，也不会太不满。

‘I go away enchanted.’
“我离开时很着迷。”

‘Farewell, then, or rather, AU REVOIR!’
“那么，再见，或者更确切地说，再见！”

And the cardinal made him a sign with his hand, to which Bonacieux replied by bowing to the ground. He then went out backward, and when he was in the antechamber the cardinal heard him, in his enthusiasm, crying aloud, ‘Long life to the Monseigneur! Long life to his Eminence! Long life to the great cardinal!’ The cardinal listened with a smile to this vociferous manifestation of the feelings of M. Bonacieux; and then, when Bonacieux’s cries were no longer audible, ‘Good!’ said he, ‘that man would henceforward lay down his life for me.’ And the cardinal began to examine with the greatest attention the map of La Rochelle, which, as we have said, lay open on the desk, tracing with a pencil the line in which the famous dyke was to pass which, eighteen months later, shut up the port of the besieged city. As he was in the deepest of his strategic meditations, the door opened, and Rochefort returned.
红衣主教向他做了个手势，博纳希厄则跪在地上作了回应。然后他向后退去，当他回到前厅时，红衣主教听到他热情地大声喊道：“大人万岁！”祝陛下万岁！伟大的红衣主教万岁！”红衣主教微笑着听着博纳希厄先生大声表达的感情。然后，当博纳希厄的呼喊声不再可闻时，他说：“好极了！那个人从此将为我献出生命。”红衣主教开始全神贯注地检查拉罗谢尔的地图，该地图是我们说过，我摊开在桌子上，用铅笔描绘了那条著名堤坝的路线，十八个月后，这条堤坝封锁了被围城的港口。正当他陷入战略沉思的时候，门开了，罗什福尔回来了。

‘Well?’ said the cardinal, eagerly, rising with a promptitude which proved the degree of importance he attached to the commission with which he had charged the count.
“怎么样？”红衣主教急切地说道，他迅速站了起来，这证明了他对伯爵委托的使命的重视程度。

‘Well,’ said the latter, ‘a young woman of about twenty-six or twenty-eight years of age, and a man of from thirty-five to forty, have indeed lodged at the two houses pointed out by your Eminence; but the woman left last night, and the man this morning.’
“嗯，”后者说道，“一位大约二十六岁或二十八岁的年轻女子，和一位三十五岁至四十岁的男子，确实在大人指出的两所房子里住宿过；但那个女人昨晚离开了，而那个男人今天早上离开了。”

‘It was they!’ cried the cardinal, looking at the clock; ‘and now it is too late to have them pursued. The duchess is at Tours, and the duke at Boulogne. It is in London they must be found.’
“是他们！”红衣主教看着时钟喊道。 ‘现在追捕他们已经太晚了。公爵夫人在图尔，公爵在布洛涅。必须在伦敦找到他们。

‘What are your Eminence’s orders?’
“大人有何吩咐？”

‘Not a word of what has passed. Let the queen remain in perfect security; let her be ignorant that we know her secret. Let her believe that we are in search of some conspiracy or other. Send me the keeper of the seals, Seguier.’
‘对过去的事情只字未提。让女王保持绝对的安全；让她不知道我们知道她的秘密。让她相信我们正在寻找某种阴谋。把海豹守护者塞吉耶派给我。

‘And that man, what has your Eminence done with him?’
“那么那个人，大人对他做了什么？”

‘What man?’ asked the cardinal.
“什么人？”红衣主教问道。

‘That Bonacieux.’
“那个博纳希厄。”

‘I have done with him all that could be done. I have made him a spy upon his wife.’
“我已经对他做了所有能做的事了。我让他成为监视他妻子的间谍。

The Comte de Rochefort bowed like a man who acknowledges the superiority of the master as great, and retired.
罗什福尔伯爵像一个承认主人的伟大地位的人一样鞠了一躬，然后退了出去。

Left alone, the cardinal seated himself again and wrote a letter, which he secured with his special seal. Then he rang. The officer entered for the fourth time.
红衣主教独自一人，重新坐下来，写了一封信，并用他的特殊印章将其固定。然后他就响了。这名军官第四次进来。

‘Tell Vitray to come to me,’ said he, ‘and tell him to get ready for a journey.’
“告诉维特雷来找我，”他说，“并告诉他准备好出发。”

An instant after, the man he asked for was before him, booted and spurred.
片刻之后，他要找的那个人就出现在他面前，穿着靴子，踩着马刺。

‘Vitray,’ said he, ‘you will go with all speed to London. You must not stop an instant on the way. You will deliver this letter to Milady. Here is an order for two hundred pistoles; call upon my treasurer and get the money. You shall have as much again if you are back within six days, and have executed your commission well.’
“维特雷，”他说，“你将全速前往伦敦。途中一刻不能停下来。您将把这封信交给米莱迪。这是一份两百皮斯托尔的订单；打电话给我的财务主管并拿钱。如果你在六天内回来，并且很好地执行了你的委托，你就会得到同样多的钱。

The messenger, without replying a single word, bowed, took the letter, with the order for the two hundred pistoles, and retired.
使者一言不发，鞠了个躬，接过信，上面写着两百手枪的命令，然后就退了出去。

Here is what the letter contained:
以下是这封信的内容：

MILADY, Be at the first ball at which the Duke of Buckingham shall be present. He will wear on his doublet twelve diamond studs; get as near to him as you can, and cut off two.
米拉迪：参加白金汉公爵出席的第一个舞会。他将在他的上衣上佩戴十二颗钻石耳钉；尽可能靠近他，然后砍掉两个。

As soon as these studs shall be in your possession, inform me.
一旦您拥有这些螺柱，请立即通知我。

15 MEN OF THE ROBE AND MEN OF THE SWORD
15 长袍之人和剑之人

On the day after these events had taken place, Athos not having reappeared, M. de Treville was informed by d’Artagnan and Porthos of the circumstance. As to Aramis, he had asked for leave of absence for five days, and was gone, it was said, to Rouen on family business.
这些事件发生后的第二天，阿托斯没有再次出现，达达尼昂和波尔托斯向德特雷维尔先生通报了这一情况。至于阿拉米斯，他已经请了五天假，据说是去鲁昂处理家族事务了。

M. de Treville was the father of his soldiers. The lowest or the least known of them, as soon as he assumed the uniform of the company, was as sure of his aid and support as if he had been his own brother.
德特雷维尔先生是他的士兵的父亲。他们中地位最低或最不为人所知的人，一旦穿上连队的制服，就会得到他的帮助和支持，就像他是自己的兄弟一样。

He repaired, then, instantly to the office of the LIEUTENANTCRIMINEL. The officer who commanded the post of the Red Cross was sent for, and by successive inquiries they learned that Athos was then lodged in the Fort l’Eveque.
然后，他立即前往刑警中尉的办公室。负责指挥红十字会的军官被派去，通过连续询问，他们得知阿多斯当时住在埃韦克堡。

Athos had passed through all the examinations we have seen Bonacieux undergo.
阿托斯已经通过了博纳西厄所经历的所有考试。

We were present at the scene in which the two captives were confronted with each other. Athos, who had till that time said nothing for fear that d’Artagnan, interrupted in his turn, should not have the time necessary, from this moment declared that his name was Athos, and not d’Artagnan. He added that he did not know either M. or Mme. Bonacieux; that he had never spoken to the one or the other; that he had come, at about ten o’clock in the evening, to pay a visit to his friend M. d’Artagnan, but that till that hour he had been at M. de Treville’s, where he had dined. ‘Twenty witnesses,’ added he, ‘could attest the fact”; and he named several distinguished gentlemen, and among them was M. le Duc de la Tremouille.
我们亲眼目睹了两名俘虏对峙的场景。阿多斯一直没有说话，因为担心轮到达达尼昂打断他的话，没有必要的时间，从这一刻起，他宣布他的名字是阿多斯，而不是达达尼昂。他补充说，他不认识M.或Mme。博纳西厄；他从未与其中一人说过话；说他是晚上十点左右来拜访他的朋友达达尼昂先生的，但在那之前他一直在德特雷维尔先生家吃饭。 “二十名证人，”他补充道，“可以证明这一事实”；他还点名了几位杰出的绅士，其中就有特雷穆耶公爵先生。

The second commissary was as much bewildered as the first had been by the simple and firm declaration of the Musketeer, upon whom he was anxious to take the revenge which men of the robe like at all times to gain over men of the sword; but the name of M. de Treville, and that of M. de la Tremouille, commanded a little reflection.
第二个委员和第一个委员一样，对火枪手简单而坚定的声明感到困惑，他急于对火枪手进行报复，就像长袍之人总是喜欢的那样，以战胜剑客。但德·特雷维尔先生和德·拉·特雷穆耶先生的名字引起了一些思考。

Athos was then sent to the cardinal; but unfortunately the cardinal was at the Louvre with the king.
阿托斯随后被送到红衣主教那里。但不幸的是，红衣主教与国王一起在卢浮宫。

It was precisely at this moment that M. de Treville, on leaving the residence of the LIEUTENANT-CRIMINEL and the governor of the Fort l’Eveque without being able to find Athos, arrived at the palace.
就在这个时候，德·特雷维尔先生离开了刑警中尉和埃维克堡总督的住所，没有找到阿多斯，就来到了王宫。

As captain of the Musketeers, M. de Treville had the right of entry at all times.
作为火枪手队长，德·特雷维尔先生在任何时候都拥有进入的权利。

It is well known how violent the king’s prejudices were against the queen, and how carefully these prejudices were kept up by the cardinal, who in affairs of intrigue mistrusted women infinitely more than men. One of the grand causes of this prejudice was the friendship of Anne of Austria for Mme. de Chevreuse. These two women gave him more uneasiness than the war with Spain, the quarrel with England, or the embarrassment of the finances. In his eyes and to his conviction, Mme. de Chevreuse not only served the queen in her political intrigues, but, what tormented him still more, in her amorous intrigues.
众所周知，国王对王后的偏见是多么强烈，而红衣主教又是多么小心翼翼地维持着这些偏见，在阴谋事务中，红衣主教对女性的不信任远胜于对男性的信任。造成这种偏见的主要原因之一是奥地利的安妮与夫人的友谊。德谢夫勒斯。这两个女人给他带来的不安，比与西班牙的战争、与英国的争吵、财政的尴尬还要多。在他的眼中和他的信念中，夫人。德·谢弗勒斯不仅在女王的政治阴谋中为她服务，而且更让他痛苦的是，在她的爱情阴谋中。

At the first word the cardinal spoke of Mme. de Chevreuse—who, though exiled to Tours and believed to be in that city, had come to Paris, remained there five days, and outwitted the police—the king flew into a furious passion. Capricious and unfaithful, the king wished to be called Louis the Just and Louis the Chaste. Posterity will find a difficulty in understanding this character, which history explains only by facts and never by reason.
红衣主教一开口就谈到了夫人。德·谢夫勒斯——虽然他被流放到图尔，据信就在那个城市，但实际上他已经来到了巴黎，在那里呆了五天，并且智取了警察——国王勃然大怒。国王反复无常且不忠，希望被称为正义者路易和贞洁者路易。后人将很难理解这个人物，因为历史只用事实而不是用理性来解释这个人物。

But when the cardinal added that not only Mme. de Chevreuse had been in Paris, but still further, that the queen had renewed with her one of those mysterious correspondences which at that time was named a CABAL; when he affirmed that he, the cardinal, was about to unravel the most closely twisted thread of this intrigue; that at the moment of arresting in the very act, with all the proofs about her, the queen’s emissary to the exiled duchess, a Musketeer had dared to interrupt the course of justice violently, by falling sword in hand upon the honest men of the law, charged with investigating impartially the whole affair in order to place it before the eyes of the king—Louis XIII could not contain himself, and he made a step toward the queen’s apartment with that pale and mute indignation which, when in broke out, led this prince to the commission of the most pitiless cruelty. And yet, in all this, the cardinal had not yet said a word about the Duke of Buckingham.
但当红衣主教补充说，不仅仅是夫人。德·谢夫勒斯当时在巴黎，但更进一步的是，女王与她续签了一份当时被称为“阴谋集团”的神秘信件；当他确认他，红衣主教，即将解开这场阴谋中最扭曲的线索时；就在逮捕她的那一刻，在掌握了有关她的所有证据的情况下，一名火枪手竟敢用手中的剑猛烈地中断司法进程，向诚实的法律人伸出了手中的剑。路易十三受命公正地调查整个事件，以便将其摆在国王眼前——路易十三无法控制自己，他怀着苍白而无声的愤怒向王后的寓所迈出了一步，这种愤怒一旦爆发，就导致了王后的愤怒。这个王子的委托是最无情的残忍。然而，在这一切中，红衣主教还没有对白金汉公爵说过一句话。

At this instant M. de Treville entered, cool, polite, and in irreproachable costume.
就在这时，德·特雷维尔先生进来了，他冷静、彬彬有礼，穿着无可挑剔的服装。

Informed of what had passed by the presence of the cardinal and the alteration in the king’s countenance, M. de Treville felt himself something like Samson before the Philistines.
得知红衣主教的出现以及国王面容的变化后，德·特雷维尔先生感觉自己就像非利士人面前的参孙。

Louis XIII had already placed his hand on the knob of the door; at the noise of M. de Treville’s entrance he turned round. ‘You arrive in good time, monsieur,’ said the king, who, when his passions were raised to a certain point, could not dissemble; ‘I have learned some fine things concerning your Musketeers.’
路易十三已经把手放在了门把手上。听到德·特雷维尔先生进来的声音，他转过身来。 “您来得正是时候，先生。”国王说道，当他的热情高涨到一定程度时，他就无法掩饰了。 “我了解到一些关于你们火枪手的好消息。”

‘And I,’ said Treville, coldly, ‘I have some pretty things to tell your Majesty concerning these gownsmen.’
“而我，”特雷维尔冷冷地说，“我有一些关于这些礼服师的好话要告诉陛下。”

‘What?’ said the king, with hauteur.
“什么？”国王傲慢地说。

‘I have the honor to inform your Majesty,’ continued M. de Treville, in the same tone, ‘that a party of PROCUREURS, commissaries, and men of the police—very estimable people, but very inveterate, as it appears, against the uniform—have taken upon themselves to arrest in a house, to lead away through the open street, and throw into the Fort l’Eveque, all upon an order which they have refused to show me, one of my, or rather your Musketeers, sire, of irreproachable conduct, of an almost illustrious reputation, and whom your Majesty knows favorably, Monsieur Athos.’
“我荣幸地通知陛下，”德特雷维尔先生用同样的语气继续说道，“一群检察官、警察和警察——都是非常值得尊敬的人，但看起来却非常顽固地反对制服——他们自己在一座房子里被捕，穿过开阔的街道，扔进了埃韦克堡，这一切都是按照他们拒绝向我展示的命令，我的，或者更确切地说是你的火枪手之一陛下，他品行无可挑剔，声誉近乎辉煌，陛下对他很了解，阿多斯先生。

‘Athos,’ said the king, mechanically; ‘yes, certainly I know that name.’
“阿多斯，”国王机械地说。 “是的，我当然知道这个名字。”

‘Let your Majesty remember,’ said Treville, ‘that Monsieur Athos is the Musketeer who, in the annoying duel which you are acquainted with, had the misfortune to wound Monsieur de Cahusac so seriously. A PROPOS, monseigneur,’ continued Treville. Addressing the cardinal, ‘Monsieur de Cahusac is quite recovered, is he not?’
“请陛下记住，”特雷维尔说，“阿多斯先生就是那个火枪手，在您所熟悉的那场恼人的决斗中，他不幸地把德·卡胡萨克先生打成了重伤。一个提案，大人，”特雷维尔继续说道。对红衣主教说：“德·卡胡萨克先生已经康复了，不是吗？”

‘Thank you,’ said the cardinal, biting his lips with anger.
“谢谢你，”红衣主教愤怒地咬着嘴唇说道。

‘Athos, then, went to pay a visit to one of his friends absent at the time,’ continued Treville, ‘to a young Bearnais, a cadet in his Majesty’s Guards, the company of Monsieur Dessessart, but scarcely had he arrived at his friend’s and taken up a book, while waiting his return, when a mixed crowd of bailiffs and soldiers came and laid siege to the house, broke open several doors—‘
“然后，阿多斯去拜访了当时缺席的一位朋友，”特雷维尔继续说道，“拜访了一位年轻的贝阿奈斯人，他是国王卫队的一名学员，在德塞萨特先生的陪伴下，但他几乎没有到达他的朋友的家，拿起一本书，在等待他回来的时候，一群法警和士兵围攻了那所房子，破开了几扇门——”

The cardinal made the king a sign, which signified, ‘That was on account of the affair about which I spoke to you.’
红衣主教向国王做了个手势，意思是：“那是因为我跟你说的那件事。”

‘We all know that,’ interrupted the king; ‘for all that was done for our service.’
“我们都知道，”国王打断道。 “感谢为我们所做的一切。”

‘Then,’ said Treville, ‘it was also for your Majesty’s service that one of my Musketeers, who was innocent, has been seized, that he has been placed between two guards like a malefactor, and that this gallant man, who has ten times shed his blood in your Majesty’s service and is ready to shed it again, has been paraded through the midst of an insolent populace?’
“那么，”特雷维尔说，“也是为了陛下的利益，我的一名无辜的火枪手被抓获，他像一个罪犯一样被放在两名警卫之间，而这个英勇的男人，有十个他曾多次为陛下的服务而流血，并准备再次流血，却在无礼的民众中游街示众？

‘Bah!’ said the king, who began to be shaken, ‘was it so managed?’
“呸！”国王开始动摇了，“事情就是这样处理的吗？”

‘Monsieur de Treville,’ said the cardinal, with the greatest phlegm, ‘does not tell your Majesty that this innocent Musketeer, this gallant man, had only an hour before attacked, sword in hand, four commissaries of inquiry, who were delegated by myself to examine into an affair of the highest importance.’
“德·特雷维尔先生，”红衣主教带着浓浓的痰说道，“没有告诉陛下，这个无辜的火枪手，这个英勇的人，在袭击发生前一个小时，手上拿着剑，有四名调查委员，他们是由我自己去调查一件最重要的事情。

‘I defy your Eminence to prove it,’ cried Treville, with his Gascon freedom and military frankness; ‘for one hour before, Monsieur Athos, who, I will confide it to your Majesty, is really a man of the highest quality, did me the honor after having dined with me to be conversing in the saloon of my hotel, with the Duc de la Tremouille and the Comte de Chalus, who happened to be there.’
“我不相信阁下能证明这一点，”特雷维尔喊道，带着他的加斯科尼自由和军人的坦率。 “一小时前，阿托斯先生，我向陛下透露，他确实是一位素质最高的人，他在与我共进晚餐后，有幸在我酒店的沙龙里与公爵交谈。 de la Tremouille 和 Chalus 伯爵，他们碰巧也在场。”

The king looked at the cardinal.
国王看着红衣主教。

‘A written examination attests it,’ said the cardinal, replying aloud to the mute interrogation of his Majesty; ‘and the illtreated people have drawn up the following, which I have the honor to present to your Majesty.’
“笔试可以证明这一点，”红衣主教大声回答国王陛下无声的询问。 “受虐待的人们起草了以下内容，我很荣幸将其呈现给陛下。”

‘And is the written report of the gownsmen to be placed in comparison with the word of honor of a swordsman?’ replied Treville haughtily.
“礼服师的书面报告是否可以与剑客的荣誉话语相提并论？”特雷维尔傲慢地回答道。

‘Come, come, Treville, hold your tongue,’ said the king.
“来吧，来吧，特雷维尔，闭嘴吧，”国王说道。

‘If his Eminence entertains any suspicion against one of my Musketeers,’ said Treville, ‘the justice of Monsieur the Cardinal is so well known that I demand an inquiry.’
“如果主教阁下对我的一名火枪手有任何怀疑，”特雷维尔说，“红衣主教先生的正义是众所周知的，我要求进行调查。”

‘In the house in which the judicial inquiry was made,’ continued the impassive cardinal, ‘there lodges, I believe, a young Bearnais, a friend of the Musketeer.’
“在进行司法调查的房子里，”冷漠的红衣主教继续说道，“我相信，住着一位年轻的贝阿内斯，他是火枪手的朋友。”

‘Your Eminence means Monsieur d’Artagnan.’
“阁下指的是达达尼昂先生。”

‘I mean a young man whom you patronize, Monsieur de Treville.’
“我指的是您所光顾的一个年轻人，德特雷维尔先生。”

‘Yes, your Eminence, it is the same.’
“是的，陛下，是一样的。”

‘Do you not suspect this young man of having given bad counsel?’
“你不怀疑这个年轻人提出了不好的建议吗？”

‘To Athos, to a man double his age?’ interrupted Treville. ‘No, monseigneur. Besides, d’Artagnan passed the evening with me.’
“对阿多斯来说，对一个年龄比他大一倍的人来说？”特雷维尔打断道。 “不，大人。此外，达达尼昂和我一起度过了这个夜晚。

‘Well,’ said the cardinal, ‘everybody seems to have passed the evening with you.’
“好吧，”红衣主教说，“看来每个人都和你一起度过了这个夜晚。”

‘Does your Eminence doubt my word?’ said Treville, with a brow flushed with anger.
“大人怀疑我的话吗？​​”特雷维尔怒气冲冲地说。

‘No, God forbid,’ said the cardinal; ‘only, at what hour was he with you?’
“不，上帝禁止，”红衣主教说。 “只是，他什么时候和你在一起的？”

‘Oh, as to that I can speak positively, your Eminence; for as he came in I remarked that it was but half past nine by the clock, although I had believed it to be later.’
“噢，对此我可以肯定地说，主教阁下；因为当他进来时，我注意到现在才九点半，尽管我本来以为会更晚。

‘At what hour did he leave your hotel?’
“他几点离开你的旅馆？”

‘At half past ten—an hour after the event.’
“十点半——活动结束后一个小时。”

‘Well,’ replied the cardinal, who could not for an instant suspect the loyalty of Treville, and who felt that the victory was escaping him, ‘well, but Athos WAS taken in the house in the Rue des Fossoyeurs.’
“好吧，”红衣主教回答道，他一瞬间无法怀疑特雷维尔的忠诚，并且觉得胜利正在离他而去，“好吧，但阿多斯是在福索耶尔街的房子里被抓起来的。”

‘Is one friend forbidden to visit another, or a Musketeer of my company to fraternize with a Guard of Dessessart’s company?’
“是否禁止一个朋友拜访另一个人，或者禁止我连的火枪手与德塞萨特连的卫兵交好？”

‘Yes, when the house where he fraternizes is suspected.’
“是的，当他交往的房子受到怀疑时。”

‘That house is suspected, Treville,’ said the king; ‘perhaps you did not know it?’
“特雷维尔，那所房子受到怀疑，”国王说。 “也许你不知道？”

‘Indeed, sire, I did not. The house may be suspected; but I deny that it is so in the part of it inhabited my Monsieur d’Artagnan, for I can affirm, sire, if I can believe what he says, that there does not exist a more devoted servant of your Majesty, or a more profound admirer of Monsieur the Cardinal.’
“确实，陛下，我没有。房屋可能受到怀疑；但我否认我的达达尼昂先生的部分情况是这样，因为我可以断言，陛下，如果我能相信他所说的话，那么不存在比陛下更忠诚的仆人，或者更忠诚的仆人。红衣主教先生的深深崇拜者。

‘Was it not this d’Artagnan who wounded Jussac one day, in that unfortunate encounter which took place near the Convent of the Carmes-Dechausses?’ asked the king, looking at the cardinal, who colored with vexation.
“有一天，在卡尔梅斯-德绍修道院附近发生的那场不幸的遭遇中，打伤了朱萨克的不是这个达达尼昂吗？”国王看着红衣主教问道，红衣主教气得满脸通红。

‘And the next day, Bernajoux. Yes, sire, yes, it is the same; and your Majesty has a good memory.’
“第二天，伯纳茹。是的，陛下，是的，是一样的；陛下记忆力很好。”

‘Come, how shall we decide?’ said the king.
“来吧，我们该如何决定呢？”国王说道。

‘That concerns your Majesty more than me,’ said the cardinal. ‘I should affirm the culpability.’
“这更关心陛下，而不是我，”红衣主教说。 “我应该确认有罪。”

‘And I deny it,’ said Treville. ‘But his Majesty has judges, and these judges will decide.’
“我否认这一点，”特雷维尔说。 “但国王陛下有法官，这些法官将做出决定。”

‘That is best,’ said the king. ‘Send the case before the judges; it is their business to judge, and they shall judge.’
“那就最好了，”国王说。 ‘将案件送交法官审理；审判是他们的事，他们也将审判。

‘Only,’ replied Treville, ‘it is a sad thing that in the unfortunate times in which we live, the purest life, the most incontestable virtue, cannot exempt a man from infamy and persecution. The army, I will answer for it, will be but little pleased at being exposed to rigorous treatment on account of police affairs.’
“只是，”特雷维尔回答道，“这是一件可悲的事情，在我们生活的不幸时代，最纯洁的生活，最无可争议的美德，无法使一个人免受耻辱和迫害。我将对此负责，军队对于因警察事务而受到严厉对待不会感到高兴。

The expression was imprudent; but M. de Treville launched it with knowledge of his cause. He was desirous of an explosion, because in that case the mine throws forth fire, and fire enlightens.
这种表达方式很不谨慎；但德特雷维尔先生在了解自己的事业的情况下发起了这一行动。他渴望爆炸，因为在这种情况下，地雷会喷出火焰，而火焰会照亮。

‘Police affairs!’ cried the king, taking up Treville’s words, ‘police affairs! And what do you know about them, Monsieur? Meddle with your Musketeers, and do not annoy me in this way. It appears, according to your account, that if by mischance a Musketeer is arrested, France is in danger. What a noise about a Musketeer! I would arrest ten of them, VENTREBLEU, a hundred, even, all the company, and I would not allow a whisper.’
“警察事务！”国王接起特雷维尔的话喊道，“警察事务！先生，您对他们了解多少？干涉你们的火枪手，别这样惹恼我。根据你的说法，如果火枪手不小心被捕，法国就会陷入危险。火枪手的声音多么大啊！我会逮捕他们中的十个人，文特布勒，甚至一百个人，甚至整个公司，而且我不允许有任何窃窃私语。

‘From the moment they are suspected by your Majesty,’ said Treville, ‘the Musketeers are guilty; therefore, you see me prepared to surrender my sword—for after having accused my soldiers, there can be no doubt that Monsieur the Cardinal will end by accusing me. It is best to constitute myself at once a prisoner with Athos, who is already arrested, and with d’Artagnan, who most probably will be.’
“从陛下怀疑他们的那一刻起，”特雷维尔说，“火枪手们就是有罪的；因此，你看到我准备交出我的剑——因为在指控了我的士兵之后，毫无疑问，红衣主教先生最终也会指控我。我最好立即与阿托斯一起成为囚犯，他已经被捕，还有达达尼昂，他很可能会被捕。

‘Gascon-headed man, will you have done?’ said the king.
“加斯科涅头的男人，你愿意吗？”国王说道。

‘Sire,’ replied Treville, without lowering his voice in the least, ‘either order my Musketeer to be restored to me, or let him be tried.’
“陛下，”特雷维尔毫不压低声音回答道，“要么命令把我的火枪手还给我，要么让他接受审判。”

‘He shall be tried,’ said the cardinal.
“他将受到审判，”红衣主教说。

‘Well, so much the better; for in that case I shall demand of his Majesty permission to plead for him.’
‘好吧，那就更好了；因为在这种情况下，我将请求国王陛下允许我为他求情。

The king feared an outbreak.
国王担心疫情会爆发。

‘If his Eminence,’ said he, ‘did not have personal motives—‘
“如果陛下，”他说，“没有个人动机——”

The cardinal saw what the king was about to say and interrupted him:
红衣主教看出国王要说什么，打断了他：

‘Pardon me,’ said he; ‘but the instant your Majesty considers me a prejudiced judge, I withdraw.’
“请原谅，”他说。 “但是一旦陛下认为我是一个有偏见的法官，我就会退出。”

‘Come,’ said the king, ‘will you swear, by my father, that Athos was at your residence during the event and that he took no part in it?’
“来吧，”国王说，“你能以我父亲的名义发誓，阿多斯在这次活动期间就在你的住所，而且他没有参与其中吗？”

‘By your glorious father, and by yourself, whom I love and venerate above all the world, I swear it.’
“以你光荣的父亲和你本人的名义，我对他的爱和尊敬超过了全世界，我发誓。”

‘Be so kind as to reflect, sire,’ said the cardinal. ‘If we release the prisoner thus, we shall never know the truth.’
“陛下，请好好反思一下，”红衣主教说道。 “如果我们这样释放囚犯，我们将永远不会知道真相。”

‘Athos may always be found,’ replied Treville, ‘ready to answer, when it shall please the gownsmen to interrogate him. He will not desert, Monsieur the Cardinal, be assured of that; I will answer for him.’
“阿多斯总是可以被发现，”特雷维尔回答说，“只要礼服师愿意审问他，他就准备好回答。”红衣主教先生，我确信他不会抛弃这一点。我会替他回答。

‘No, he will not desert,’ said the king; ‘he can always be found, as Treville says. Besides,’ added he, lowering his voice and looking with a suppliant air at the cardinal, ‘let us give them apparent security; that is policy.’
“不，他不会逃跑，”国王说。 “正如特雷维尔所说，他总是可以被发现。此外，”他压低声音，用恳求的眼神看着红衣主教，补充道，“让我们给他们表面上的安全；这就是政策。

This policy of Louis XIII made Richelieu smile.
路易十三的这一政策让黎塞留笑了。

‘Order it as you please, sire; you possess the right of pardon.’
“请随意吩咐，陛下；你拥有赦免权。”

‘The right of pardoning only applies to the guilty,’ said Treville, who was determined to have the last word, ‘and my Musketeer is innocent. It is not mercy, then, that you are about to accord, sire, it is justice.’
“赦免权只适用于有罪的人，”特雷维尔说道，他决心拥有最后的发言权，“而我的火枪手是无辜的。”那么，陛下，您要给予的不是仁慈，而是正义。”

‘And he is in the Fort l’Eveque?’ said the king.
“他在埃韦克堡吗？”国王问道。

‘Yes, sire, in solitary confinement, in a dungeon, like the lowest criminal.’
“是的，陛下，单独监禁，在地牢里，就像最低级的罪犯一样。”

‘The devil!’ murmured the king; ‘what must be done?’
“魔鬼啊！”国王低声说道。 “必须做什么？”

‘Sign an order for his release, and all will be said,’ replied the cardinal. ‘I believe with your Majesty that Monsieur de Treville’s guarantee is more than sufficient.’
“签署释放他的命令，一切都会被公布，”红衣主教回答道。 “我相信陛下，德特雷维尔先生的保证是绰绰有余的。”

Treville bowed very respectfully, with a joy that was not unmixed with fear; he would have preferred an obstinate resistance on the part of the cardinal to this sudden yielding.
特雷维尔非常恭敬地鞠了一躬，心中既高兴又夹杂着恐惧。他宁愿红衣主教顽强抵抗，也不愿突然屈服。

The king signed the order for release, and Treville carried it away without delay. As he was about to leave the presence, the cardinal gave him a friendly smile, and said, ‘A perfect harmony reigns, sire, between the leaders and the soldiers of your Musketeers, which must be profitable for the service and honorable to all.’
国王签署了释放令，特雷维尔立即将其带走。当他准备离开时，红衣主教对他友好地微笑了一下，说道：“陛下，您的火枪手的领导人和士兵之间存在着完美的和谐，这对服务来说一定是有益的，并且对所有人来说都是光荣的。” '

‘He will play me some dog’s trick or other, and that immediately,’ said Treville. ‘One has never the last word with such a man. But let us be quick—the king may change his mind in an hour; and at all events it is more difficult to replace a man in the Fort l’Eveque or the Bastille who has got out, than to keep a prisoner there who is in.’
“他会给我玩一些狗戏法或其他戏法，而且是立即进行的，”特雷维尔说。 “对这样的人，永远没有最后的定论。但我们得快点——国王可能会在一小时内改变主意；无论如何，在埃韦克堡或巴士底狱中替换一个已经逃出来的人比留住一个在里面的囚犯更困难。

M. de Treville made his entrance triumphantly into the Fort l’Eveque, whence he delivered the Musketeer, whose peaceful indifference had not for a moment abandoned him.
德·特雷维尔先生得意洋洋地走进埃韦克堡，从那里救出了火枪手，而火枪手的平静冷漠却一刻也没有抛弃他。

The first time he saw d’Artagnan, ‘You have come off well,’ said he to him; ‘there is your Jussac thrust paid for. There still remains that of Bernajoux, but you must not be too confident.’
他第一次见到达达尼昂时，对他说：“你表现得很好。” ‘你的朱萨克的冲刺已经得到了回报。贝尔纳茹的还在，但你也别太自信了。”

As to the rest, M. de Treville had good reason to mistrust the cardinal and to think that all was not over, for scarcely had the captain of the Musketeers closed the door after him, than his Eminence said to the king, ‘Now that we are at length by ourselves, we will, if your Majesty pleases, converse seriously. Sire, Buckingham has been in Paris five days, and only left this morning.’
至于其余的事，德·特雷维尔先生有充分的理由不信任红衣主教，并认为一切还没有结束，因为火枪手队长刚在他身后关上门，大人就对国王说：“现在，我们终于只剩下自己了，如果陛下愿意的话，我们可以认真地谈谈。陛下，白金汉已经来巴黎五天了，今天早上才离开。”

16 IN WHICH M. SEGUIER, KEEPER OF THE SEALS, LOOKS MORE THAN
16 其中，海豹守护者 M. Seguier 看起来不只是

ONCE FOR THE BELL, IN ORDER TO RING IT, AS HE DID BEFORE
一次按门铃，为了按响它，就像他以前所做的那样

It is impossible to form an idea of the impression these few words made upon Louis XIII. He grew pale and red alternately; and the cardinal saw at once that he had recovered by a single blow all the ground he had lost.
我们无法想象这几句话给路易十三留下的印象。他的脸色时而苍白，时而红润。红衣主教立刻发现，他一击就收复了所有失地。

‘Buckingham in Paris!’ cried he, ‘and why does he come?’
“白金汉在巴黎！”他喊道，“他为什么来？”

‘To conspire, no doubt, with your enemies, the Huguenots and the Spaniards.’
“毫无疑问，是与你的敌人胡格诺派和西班牙人密谋。”

‘No, PARDIEU, no! To conspire against my honor with Madame de Chevreuse, Madame de Longueville, and the Condes.’
“不，帕迪厄，不！与德·谢夫勒斯夫人、德·隆格维尔夫人和孔德家族密谋损害我的名誉。”

‘Oh, sire, what an idea! The queen is too virtuous; and besides, loves your Majesty too well.’
‘哦，陛下，真是个好主意！皇后太贤惠了；而且，他也太爱陛下了。”

‘Woman is weak, Monsieur Cardinal,’ said the king; ‘and as to loving me much, I have my own opinion as to that love.’
“红衣主教先生，女人是软弱的，”国王说。 “至于有多爱我，我对这种爱有自己的看法。”

‘I not the less maintain,’ said the cardinal, ‘that the Duke of Buckingham came to Paris for a project wholly political.’
“我仍然坚持，”红衣主教说，“白金汉公爵来到巴黎是为了一个完全政治性的计划。”

‘And I am sure that he came for quite another purpose, Monsieur Cardinal; but if the queen be guilty, let her tremble!’
“我确信他来的目的完全不同，红衣主教先生；但如果女王有罪，那就让她颤抖吧！”

‘Indeed,’ said the cardinal, ‘whatever repugnance I may have to directing my mind to such a treason, your Majesty compels me to think of it. Madame de Lannoy, whom, according to your Majesty’s command, I have frequently interrogated, told me this morning that the night before last her Majesty sat up very late, that this morning she wept much, and that she was writing all day.’
“确实，”红衣主教说，“无论我对这种叛国行为有多么反感，陛下都强迫我考虑它。我按照陛下的命令，经常审问德·兰努瓦夫人，她今天早上告诉我，陛下前天晚上睡得很晚，今天早上她哭得很厉害，而且她整天都在写作。

‘That’s it!’ cried the king; ‘to him, no doubt. Cardinal, I must have the queen’s papers.’
“就是这样！”国王喊道。 “对他来说，毫无疑问。红衣主教，我必须拿到女王的文件。

‘But how to take them, sire? It seems to me that it is neither your Majesty nor myself who can charge himself with such a mission.’
“但是怎么拿走它们呢，陛下？在我看来，无论是陛下还是我自己，都无法担负起这样的使命。

‘How did they act with regard to the Marechale d’Ancre?’ cried the king, in the highest state of choler; ‘first her closets were thoroughly searched, and then she herself.’
“他们对安克元帅有何反应？”国王怒不可遏地喊道。 “首先是她的衣柜被彻底搜查，然后是她自己。”

‘The Marechale d’Ancre was no more than the Marechale d’Ancre. A Florentine adventurer, sire, and that was all; while the august spouse of your Majesty is Anne of Austria, Queen of France—that is to say, one of the greatest princesses in the world.’
‘安克元帅只不过是安克元帅。一位佛罗伦萨冒险家，陛下，仅此而已。而陛下尊贵的配偶是法国女王奥地利的安妮——也就是说，世界上最伟大的公主之一。

‘She is not the less guilty, Monsieur Duke! The more she has forgotten the high position in which she was placed, the more degrading is her fall. Besides, I long ago determined to put an end to all these petty intrigues of policy and love. She has near her a certain Laporte.’
“公爵先生，她的罪孽并没有减轻！”她越忘记自己所处的崇高地位，她的堕落就越有辱人格。而且，我早就下定决心，要杜绝一切这些政策和爱情的小阴谋。她身边有一个叫拉波尔特的人。

‘Who, I believe, is the mainspring of all this, I confess,’ said the cardinal.
“我承认，我相信他是这一切的主要推动者，”红衣主教说道。

‘You think then, as I do, that she deceives me?’ said the king.
“那么你和我一样认为她欺骗了我吗？”国王说道。

‘I believe, and I repeat it to your Majesty, that the queen conspires against the power of the king, but I have not said against his honor.’
“我相信，并向陛下重复一遍，王后密谋反对国王的权力，但我并没有说过反对他的荣誉。”

‘And I—I tell you against both. I tell you the queen does not love me; I tell you she loves another; I tell you she loves that infamous Buckingham! Why did you not have him arrested while in Paris?’
“而我——我告诉你反对这两种情况。我告诉你女王不爱我；我告诉你她爱上了另一个人；我告诉你她喜欢那个臭名昭著的白金汉宫！你为什么不在巴黎逮捕他？

‘Arrest the Duke! Arrest the prime minister of King Charles I! Think of it, sire! What a scandal! And if the suspicions of your Majesty, which I still continue to doubt, should prove to have any foundation, what a terrible disclosure, what a fearful scandal!’
‘逮捕公爵！逮捕查理一世国王的首相！想想吧，先生！多么丑闻啊！如果陛下的怀疑——我仍然怀疑——被证明有任何根据，那么这是多么可怕的揭露，多么可怕的丑闻！

‘But as he exposed himself like a vagabond or a thief, he should have been—‘
“但当他像流浪汉或小偷一样暴露自己时，他应该——”

Louis XIII stopped, terrified at what he was about to say, while Richelieu, stretching out his neck, waited uselessly for the word which had died on the lips of the king.
路易十三停了下来，对自己要说的话感到害怕，而黎塞留则伸长脖子，徒劳地等待着国王嘴边说的话。

‘He should have been—?’
“他应该是——？”

‘Nothing,’ said the king, ‘nothing. But all the time he was in Paris, you, of course, did not lose sight of him?’
“没什么，”国王说，“没什么。”但他一直在巴黎，你当然没有忘记他吗？

‘No, sire.’
“不，陛下。”

‘Where did he lodge?’
“他住在哪里？”

‘Rue de la Harpe. No. 75.’
'Rue de la Harpe。 75 号。

‘Where is that?’
'哪里是？'

‘By the side of the Luxembourg.’
“在卢森堡号旁边。”

‘And you are certain that the queen and he did not see each other?’
“你确定女王和他没有见过对方吗？”

‘I believe the queen to have too high a sense of her duty, sire.’
“我认为女王的责任感太高了，陛下。”

‘But they have corresponded; it is to him that the queen has been writing all the day. Monsieur Duke, I must have those letters!’
‘但是他们已经通信了；女王一整天都在写信给他。杜克先生，我一定要拿到那些信！”

‘Sire, notwithstanding—‘
“陛下，尽管如此——”

‘Monsieur Duke, at whatever price it may be, I will have them.’
“杜克先生，无论付出什么代价，我都会得到它们。”

‘I would, however, beg your Majesty to observe—‘
“不过，我恳请陛下注意——”

‘Do you, then, also join in betraying me, Monsieur Cardinal, by thus always opposing my will? Are you also in accord with Spain and England, with Madame de Chevreuse and the queen?’
“那么，红衣主教先生，你是否也加入了背叛我的行列，总是反对我的意愿呢？您是否也同意西班牙和英国、谢夫勒斯夫人和女王的观点？

‘Sire,’ replied the cardinal, sighing, ‘I believed myself secure from such a suspicion.’
“陛下，”红衣主教叹了口气，回答道，“我相信自己不会受到这样的怀疑。”

‘Monsieur Cardinal, you have heard me; I will have those letters.’
“红衣主教先生，您已经听到我的声音了；我会收到那些信。

‘There is but one way.’
“只有一种方法。”

‘What is that?’
'那是什么？'

‘That would be to charge Monsieur de Seguier, the keeper of the seals, with this mission. The matter enters completely into the duties of the post.’
“那就是委托海豹守护者德·塞吉耶先生来执行这项任务。此事完全属于该职位的职责范围。”

‘Let him be sent for instantly.’
“立即派人把他叫来。”

‘He is most likely at my hotel. I requested him to call, and when I came to the Louvre I left orders if he came, to desire him to wait.’
“他很可能在我的酒店。我要求他打电话，当我来到卢浮宫时，如果他来的话，我会留下命令，希望他等待。

‘Let him be sent for instantly.’
“立即派人把他叫来。”

‘Your Majesty’s orders shall be executed; but—‘
‘陛下的命令必须执行；但-'

‘But what?’
“但是什么？”

‘But the queen will perhaps refuse to obey.’
“但女王也许会拒绝服从。”

‘My orders?’
'我的订单？'

‘Yes, if she is ignorant that these orders come from the king.’
“是的，如果她不知道这些命令来自国王的话。”

‘Well, that she may have no doubt on that head, I will go and inform her myself.’
“好吧，为了让她对这一点没有疑问，我会亲自去告诉她。”

‘Your Majesty will not forget that I have done everything in my power to prevent a rupture.’
“陛下不会忘记，我已经尽了一切努力来防止破裂。”

‘Yes, Duke, yes, I know you are very indulgent toward the queen, too indulgent, perhaps; we shall have occasion, I warn you, at some future period to speak of that.’
“是的，公爵，是的，我知道您对王后非常纵容，也许是太纵容了；我警告你，我们将来会有机会谈论这一点。

‘Whenever it shall please your Majesty; but I shall be always happy and proud, sire, to sacrifice myself to the harmony which I desire to see reign between you and the Queen of France.’
“只要陛下高兴；但陛下，我将永远感到高兴和自豪，为了我希望看到您和法国女王之间的和谐而牺牲自己。”

‘Very well, Cardinal, very well; but, meantime, send for Monsieur the Keeper of the Seals. I will go to the queen.’
“很好，红衣主教，很好；但是，与此同时，请派人去请海豹守护者先生。我要去见女王。

And Louis XIII, opening the door of communication, passed into the corridor which led from his apartments to those of Anne of Austria.
路易十三打开通讯门，走进从他的公寓通向奥地利安妮公寓的走廊。

The queen was in the midst of her women—Mme. de Guitaut, Mme. de Sable, Mme. de Montbazon, and Mme. de Guemene. In a corner was the Spanish companion, Donna Estafania, who had followed her from Madrid. Mme. Guemene was reading aloud, and everybody was listening to her with attention with the exception of the queen, who had, on the contrary, desired this reading in order that she might be able, while feigning to listen, to pursue the thread of her own thoughts.
王后正站在她的女人们中间——夫人。德吉托女士德·萨布尔女士德蒙巴宗和夫人。德格梅内。角落里坐着西班牙同伴唐娜·埃斯塔法尼亚 (Donna Estafania)，她是从马德里跟着她来的。女士。格梅内正在大声朗读，每个人都在聚精会神地听她讲话，除了王后，相反，她希望这样朗读，以便她能够在假装听的同时继续追寻自己的线索。想法。

These thoughts, gilded as they were by a last reflection of love, were not the less sad. Anne of Austria, deprived of the confidence of her husband, pursued by the hatred of the cardinal, who could not pardon her for having repulsed a more tender feeling, having before her eyes the example of the queen-mother whom that hatred had tormented all her life—though Marie de Medicis, if the memoirs of the time are to be believed, had begun by according to the cardinal that sentiment which Anne of Austria always refused him—Anne of Austria had seen her most devoted servants fall around her, her most intimate confidants, her dearest favorites. Like those unfortunate persons endowed with a fatal gift, she brought misfortune upon everything she touched. Her friendship was a fatal sign which called down persecution. Mme. de Chevreuse and Mme. de Bernet were exiled, and Laporte did not conceal from his mistress that he expected to be arrested every instant.
这些想法虽然被爱的最后反射镀上了一层金色，但依然令人悲伤。奥地利的安妮，被剥夺了丈夫的信任，被红衣主教的仇恨所追赶，红衣主教无法原谅她拒绝了更温柔的感情，因为她眼前有王太后的例子，她的仇恨折磨了所有人她的一生——尽管根据红衣主教的说法，玛丽·德·梅迪西斯，如果当时的回忆录可信的话，是从奥地利的安妮总是拒绝他的那种情感开始的——奥地利的安妮看到她最忠诚的仆人在她身边倒下，她的最亲密的知己，她最亲爱的最爱。就像那些被赋予了致命天赋的不幸者一样，她所接触到的一切都会带来不幸。她的友谊是一个致命的标志，可以制止迫害。女士。德谢夫勒斯和夫人。德贝尔内被流放，拉波尔特也没有向他的情妇隐瞒他随时都会被捕。

It was at the moment when she was plunged in the deepest and darkest of these reflections that the door of the chamber opened, and the king entered.
就在她陷入最深沉、最黑暗的思考中的那一刻，房间的门打开了，国王走了进来。

The reader hushed herself instantly. All the ladies rose, and there was a profound silence. As to the king, he made no demonstration of politeness, only stopping before the queen. ‘Madame,’ said he, ‘you are about to receive a visit from the chancellor, who will communicate certain matters to you with which I have charged him.’
读者立刻安静下来。所有的女士们都站了起来，全场陷入了深深的沉默。至于国王，他没有表现出任何客气，只是在王后面前停了下来。 “夫人，”他说，“财政大臣即将来访，他将向您通报我交待他的某些事宜。”

The unfortunate queen, who was constantly threatened with divorce, exile, and trial even, turned pale under her rouge, and could not refrain from saying, ‘But why this visit, sire? What can the chancellor have to say to me that your Majesty could not say yourself?’
不幸的王后不断受到离婚、流放甚至审判的威胁，她在胭脂下脸色苍白，忍不住问道：“陛下，为什么要来此？有什么是大臣必须对我说而陛下自己却不能说的呢？

The king turned upon his heel without reply, and almost at the same instant the captain of the Guards, M. de Guitant, announced the visit of the chancellor.
国王没有回答就转过身去，几乎同时，近卫军队长德·吉坦先生宣布了总理的来访。

When the chancellor appeared, the king had already gone out by another door.
当宰相出现时，国王已经从另一扇门出去了。

The chancellor entered, half smiling, half blushing. As we shall probably meet with him again in the course of our history, it may be well for our readers to be made at once acquainted with him.
总理进来了，半笑半红。由于我们可能会在我们的历史进程中再次见到他，因此我们的读者最好立即熟悉他。

This chancellor was a pleasant man. He was Des Roches le Masle, canon of Notre Dame, who had formerly been valet of a bishop, who introduced him to his Eminence as a perfectly devout man. The cardinal trusted him, and therein found his advantage.
这位总理是一个令人愉快的人。他是巴黎圣母院教士德·罗切斯·勒·马斯勒（Des Roches le Masle），曾是一位主教的贴身男仆，主教将他介绍给主教大人，他是一位完全虔诚的人。红衣主教信任他，并从中找到了他的优势。

There are many stories related of him, and among them this. After a wild youth, he had retired into a convent, there to expiate, at least for some time, the follies of adolescence. On entering this holy place, the poor penitent was unable to shut the door so close as to prevent the passions he fled from entering with him. He was incessantly attacked by them, and the superior, to whom he had confided this misfortune, wishing as much as in him lay to free him from them, had advised him, in order to conjure away the tempting demon, to have recourse to the bell rope, and ring with all his might. At the denunciating sound, the monks would be rendered aware that temptation was besieging a brother, and all the community would go to prayers.
关于他的故事有很多，其中就有这个。度过了疯狂的青春期后，他隐退到了一家修道院，在那里至少在一段时间内弥补了青春期的愚蠢行为。当进入这个圣地时，可怜的忏悔者无法将门关得那么紧，以防止他逃离的激情随之进入。他不断地受到它们的攻击，上级向他吐露了这一不幸，并尽可能地希望他摆脱它们，建议他求助于恶魔，以召唤出诱人的恶魔。铃绳，用尽全力敲响。当谴责声响起时，僧侣们就会意识到诱惑正在围攻一位弟兄，整个团体都会去祈祷。

This advice appeared good to the future chancellor. He conjured the evil spirit with abundance of prayers offered up by the monks. But the devil does not suffer himself to be easily dispossessed from a place in which he has fixed his garrison. In proportion as they redoubled the exorcisms he redoubled the temptations; so that day and night the bell was ringing full swing, announcing the extreme desire for mortification which the penitent experienced.
这个建议对未来的总理来说似乎很好。他通过僧侣们的大量祈祷来召唤邪灵。但魔鬼不会轻易地让自己从他驻扎的地方被夺走。他们越加倍驱魔，他就越加倍诱惑。于是，钟声日日夜夜地敲响，宣告着忏悔者所经历的极度的屈辱欲望。

The monks had no longer an instant of repose. By day they did nothing but ascend and descend the steps which led to the chapel; at night, in addition to complines and matins, they were further obliged to leap twenty times out of their beds and prostrate themselves on the floor of their cells.
修士们再也没有片刻的安宁。白天，他们除了走上走下通向教堂的台阶之外，什么也不做。晚上，除了守夜和晨祷外，他们还被迫从床上跳下二十次，趴在牢房的地板上。

It is not known whether it was the devil who gave way, or the monks who grew tired; but within three months the penitent reappeared in the world with the reputation of being the most terrible POSSESSED that ever existed.
不知道是魔鬼屈服了，还是僧侣们累了；但三个月后，忏悔者再次出现在世界上，并被认为是有史以来最可怕的恶魔。

On leaving the convent he entered into the magistracy, became president on the place of his uncle, embraced the cardinal’s party, which did not prove want of sagacity, became chancellor, served his Eminence with zeal in his hatred against the queenmother and his vengeance against Anne of Austria, stimulated the judges in the affair of Calais, encouraged the attempts of M. de Laffemas, chief gamekeeper of France; then, at length, invested with the entire confidence of the cardinal—a confidence which he had so well earned—he received the singular commission for the execution of which he presented himself in the queen’s apartments.
离开修道院后，他进入地方法官，代替他叔叔成为总统，加入了红衣主教的政党，这并没有证明缺乏睿智，成为财政大臣，怀着对太后的仇恨和对国王的复仇，满怀热情地为主教阁下服务。奥地利的安妮在加莱事件中刺激了法官，鼓励了法国首席猎场看守人拉菲马斯先生的尝试。最后，他得到了红衣主教的全部信任——这种信任是他应得的——他收到了一项特殊的委托，他亲自到女王的寓所执行这项委托。

The queen was still standing when he entered; but scarcely had she perceived him then she reseated herself in her armchair, and made a sign to her women to resume their cushions and stools, and with an air of supreme hauteur, said, ‘What do you desire, monsieur, and with what object do you present yourself here?’
当他进来时，王后还站着。但她刚发现他，就重新坐回扶手椅上，示意她的女人们把坐垫和凳子放回原位，然后带着一种至高无上的傲慢态度说道：“先生，您想要什么，有什么目的？”你在这里介绍一下自己吗？

‘To make, madame, in the name of the king, and without prejudice to the respect which I have the honor to owe to your Majesty a close examination into all your papers.’
“夫人，以国王的名义，在不损害我对陛下的尊重的情况下，对您的所有文件进行仔细检查。”

‘How, monsieur, an investigation of my papers—mine! Truly, this is an indignity!’
“先生，对我的文件进行调查——我的！”确实，这是一种侮辱！”

‘Be kind enough to pardon me, madame; but in this circumstance I am but the instrument which the king employs. Has not his Majesty just left you, and has he not himself asked you to prepare for this visit?’
“请原谅我，夫人；但在这种情况下，我不过是国王所使用的工具而已。陛下不是刚刚离开您吗？他不是亲自吩咐您为这次访问做准备吗？

‘Search, then, monsieur! I am a criminal, as it appears. Estafania, give up the keys of my drawers and my desks.’
“那就搜查吧，先生！看来我是个罪犯。 Estafania，交出我抽屉和桌子的钥匙。

For form’s sake the chancellor paid a visit to the pieces of furniture named; but he well knew that it was not in a piece of furniture that the queen would place the important letter she had written that day.
为了形式起见，财政大臣参观了这些被命名的家具；但他很清楚，女王不会把她那天写的重要信放在一件家具里。

When the chancellor had opened and shut twenty times the drawers of the secretaries, it became necessary, whatever hesitation he might experience—it became necessary, I say, to come to the conclusion of the affair; that is to say, to search the queen herself. The chancellor advanced, therefore, toward Anne of Austria, and said with a very perplexed and embarrassed air, ‘And now it remains for me to make the principal examination.’
当财政大臣打开和关上秘书的抽屉二十次时，无论他可能经历多少犹豫，我说，有必要得出这件事的结论；也就是说，要亲自搜查女王。因此，大法官走向奥地利的安妮，带着一种非常困惑和尴尬的神情说道：“现在我要做主要的检查了。”

‘What is that?’ asked the queen, who did not understand, or rather was not willing to understand.
“那是什么？”王后问道，她不明白，或者说不愿意明白。

‘His majesty is certain that a letter has been written by you during the day; he knows that it has not yet been sent to its address. This letter is not in your table nor in your secretary; and yet this letter must be somewhere.’
“陛下确信您白天写了一封信；他知道它尚未发送到其地址。这封信不在您的桌子上，也不在您的秘书中；但这封信肯定在某个地方。

‘Would you dare to lift your hand to your queen?’ said Anne of Austria, drawing herself up to her full height, and fixing her eyes upon the chancellor with an expression almost threatening.
“你敢向你的王后举手吗？”奥地利的安妮说，她挺直了身子，用几乎威胁的表情盯着大臣。

‘I am a faithful subject of the king, madame, and all that his Majesty commands I shall do.’
“我是国王忠实的臣民，夫人，凡是国王陛下的命令我都会遵照执行。”

‘Well, it is true!’ said Anne of Austria; ‘and the spies of the cardinal have served him faithfully. I have written a letter today; that letter is not yet gone. The letter is here.’ And the queen laid her beautiful hand on her bosom.
“嗯，这是真的！”奥地利的安妮说道。 “红衣主教的间谍忠实地为他服务。我今天写了一封信；那封信还没有消失。信在这里。”女王将她美丽的手放在胸前。

‘Then give me that letter, madame,’ said the chancellor.
“那么，夫人，请把那封信给我，”财政大臣说道。

‘I will give it to none but the king monsieur,’ said Anne.
“除了国王先生，我不会把它交给任何人，”安妮说。

‘If the king had desired that the letter should be given to him, madame, he would have demanded it of you himself. But I repeat to you, I am charged with reclaiming it; and if you do not give it up—‘
“如果国王希望将这封信交给他，夫人，他就会亲自向您索取。但我要向你们重复一遍，我有责任收回它；如果你不放弃——”

‘Well?’
'出色地？'

‘He has, then, charged me to take it from you.’
“那么，他就吩咐我把它从你手中拿走。”

‘How! What do you say?’
'如何！你怎么说？'

‘That my orders go far, madame; and that I am authorized to seek for the suspected paper, even on the person of your Majesty.’
“希望我的命令能够发挥作用，夫人；我有权寻找可疑文件，即使是针对陛下本人。”

‘What horror!’ cried the queen.
“太可怕了！”王后喊道。

‘Be kind enough, then, madame, to act more compliantly.’
“那么，女士，请表现得更加顺从一些。”

‘The conduct is infamously violent! Do you know that, monsieur?’
“这种行为是臭名昭著的暴力！你知道吗，先生？

‘The king commands it, madame; excuse me.’
“这是国王的命令，夫人；打扰一下。'

‘I will not suffer it! No, no, I would rather die!’ cried the queen, in whom the imperious blood of Spain and Austria began to rise.
‘我不会受苦的！不，不，我宁愿死！”王后喊道，西班牙和奥地利的专横血统开始在她身上升腾。

The chancellor made a profound reverence. Then, with the intention quite patent of not drawing back a foot from the accomplishment of the commission with which he was charged, and as the attendant of an executioner might have done in the chamber of torture, he approached Anne of Austria, for whose eyes at the same instant sprang tears of rage.
宰相致以深切的敬意。然后，他怀着毫不犹豫地完成他所承担的使命的意图，就像刽子手的侍从在酷刑室里可能做的那样，他走近奥地利的安妮，为了她的眼睛与此同时，愤怒的泪水涌了出来。

The queen was, as we have said, of great beauty. The commission might well be called delicate; and the king had reached, in his jealousy of Buckingham, the point of not being jealous of anyone else.
正如我们所说，女王非常美丽。该委员会很可能被称为微妙的。国王对白金汉的嫉妒已经达到了不再嫉妒其他任何人的地步。

Without doubt the chancellor, Seguier looked about at that moment for the rope of the famous bell; but not finding it he summoned his resolution, and stretched forth his hands toward the place where the queen had acknowledged the paper was to be found.
塞吉尔毫无疑问是财政大臣，此时他环顾四周，寻找着名钟的绳子。但没有找到，他下定决心，向王后承认可以找到这张纸的地方伸出双手。

Anne of Austria took one step backward, became so pale that it might be said she was dying, and leaning with her left hand upon a table behind her to keep herself from falling, she with her right hand drew the paper from her bosom and held it out to the keeper of the seals.
奥地利的安妮向后退了一步，脸色苍白得快要死了，她左手撑在身后的桌子上，以免摔倒，右手从怀里抽出纸片，握在手里。交给海豹守护者。

‘There, monsieur, there is that letter!’ cried the queen, with a broken and trembling voice; ‘take it, and deliver me from your odious presence.’
“先生，那封信就在这儿！”王后用断断续续、颤抖的声音喊道。 “拿着它，把我从你可恶的存在中救出来。”

The chancellor, who, on his part, trembled with an emotion easily to be conceived, took the letter, bowed to the ground, and retired. The door was scarcely closed upon him, when the queen sank, half fainting, into the arms of her women.
大臣则因一种难以想象的情绪而浑身颤抖，他接过信，跪倒在地，然后退了出去。门刚关上，王后就倒在了她的女人们的怀里，半昏过去了。

The chancellor carried the letter to the king without having read a single word of it. The king took it with a trembling hand, looked for the address, which was wanting, became very pale, opened it slowly, then seeing by the first words that it was addressed to the King of Spain, he read it rapidly.
大臣没有读过信中的任何一个字，就把信交给了国王。国王用颤抖的手接过它，寻找着想要的地址，脸色变得非常苍白，慢慢地打开它，然后从第一句话看出它是写给西班牙国王的，他飞快地读了一遍。

It was nothing but a plan of attack against the cardinal. The queen pressed her brother and the Emperor of Austria to appear to be wounded, as they really were, by the policy of Richelieu—the eternal object of which was the abasement of the house of Austria—to declare war against France, and as a condition of peace, to insist upon the dismissal of the cardinal; but as to love, there was not a single word about it in all the letter.
这只不过是针对红衣主教的攻击计划。王后迫使她的兄弟和奥地利皇帝表面上受到黎塞留政策的伤害——其永恒的目标是贬低奥地利王室——对法国宣战，并作为和平条件下，坚持罢免红衣主教；但至于爱情，整封信里却只字未提。

The king, quite delighted, inquired if the cardinal was still at the Louvre; he was told that his Eminence awaited the orders of his Majesty in the business cabinet.
国王非常高兴，询问红衣主教是否还在卢浮宫。有人告诉他，陛下正在商务内阁等待陛下的命令。

The king went straight to him.
国王径直走向他。

‘There, Duke,’ said he, ‘you were right and I was wrong. The whole intrigue is political, and there is not the least question of love in this letter; but, on the other hand, there is abundant question of you.’
“好了，公爵，”他说，“你是对的，我错了。整个阴谋都是政治性的，这封信中没有丝毫爱情的问题；但是，另一方面，你也有很多问题。”

The cardinal took the letter, and read it with the greatest attention; then, when he had arrived at the end of it, he read it a second time. ‘Well, your Majesty,’ said he, ‘you see how far my enemies go; they menace you with two wars if you do not dismiss me. In your place, in truth, sire, I should yield to such powerful instance; and on my part, it would be a real happiness to withdraw from public affairs.’
红衣主教接过这封信，全神贯注地读着。然后，当他读到最后时，他又读了一遍。 “好吧，陛下，”他说，“您看到我的敌人有多远了；如果你不解雇我，他们就会用两场战争来威胁你。事实上，陛下，在您的位置上，我应该屈服于如此有力的例子。就我而言，退出公共事务将是一种真正的幸福。

‘What say you, Duke?’
“杜克，你怎么说？”

‘I say, sire, that my health is sinking under these excessive struggles and these never-ending labors. I say that according to all probability I shall not be able to undergo the fatigues of the siege of La Rochelle, and that it would be far better that you should appoint there either Monsieur de Conde, Monsieur de Bassopierre, or some valiant gentleman whose business is war, and not me, who am a churchman, and who am constantly turned aside for my real vocation to look after matters for which I have no aptitude. You would be the happier for it at home, sire, and I do not doubt you would be the greater for it abroad.’
“我说，陛下，在这些过度的挣扎和无休止的劳作中，我的健康状况正在恶化。我说，很可能我将无法承受拉罗谢尔围攻的疲劳，最好您任命德·孔德先生、德·巴索皮埃尔先生或某位英勇的绅士在那里，他们的业务是战争，而不是我，我是一名牧师，为了我真正的使命而不断地被抛弃，去照顾我没有能力的事情。陛下，您在国内会因此而更加高兴，我毫不怀疑您在国外也会因此而更加伟大。

‘Monsieur Duke,’ said the king, ‘I understand you. Be satisfied, all who are named in that letter shall be punished as they deserve, even the queen herself.’
“公爵先生，”国王说，“我理解你。”请放心，所有在这封信中被点名的人都将受到应有的惩罚，甚至包括女王本人。”

‘What do you say, sire? God forbid that the queen should suffer the least inconvenience or uneasiness on my account! She has always believed me, sire, to be her enemy; although your Majesty can bear witness that I have always taken her part warmly, even against you. Oh, if she betrayed your Majesty on the side of your honor, it would be quite another thing, and I should be the first to say, ‘No grace, sire—no grace for the guilty!’ Happily, there is nothing of the kind, and your Majesty has just acquired a new proof of it.’
‘您说什么，先生？上帝保佑王后不要因为我而遭受哪怕一丁点的不便或不安！陛下，她一直认为我是她的敌人；尽管陛下可以作证，我一直热情地支持她，即使是反对您。哦，如果她为了您的荣誉而背叛了陛下，那将是另一回事了，我应该第一个说，“没有恩典，陛下——有罪的人没有恩典！”幸运的是，没有什么太好了，陛下刚刚获得了新的证据。”

‘That is true, Monsieur Cardinal,’ said the king, ‘and you were right, as you always are; but the queen, not the less, deserves all my anger.’
“确实如此，红衣主教先生，”国王说，“你是对的，一如既往；但女王同样值得我愤怒。”

‘It is you, sire, who have now incurred hers. And even if she were to be seriously offended, I could well understand it; your Majesty has treated her with a severity—‘
“是您，陛下，现在招致了她的痛苦。即使她被严重冒犯了，我也能理解。陛下对待她很严厉——”

‘It is thus I will always treat my enemies and yours, Duke, however high they may be placed, and whatever peril I may incur in acting severely toward them.’
“公爵，我将永远这样对待我的敌人和你的敌人，无论他们的地位有多高，也无论我严厉对待他们可能会带来什么危险。”

‘The queen is my enemy, but is not yours, sire; on the contrary, she is a devoted, submissive, and irreproachable wife. Allow me, then, sire, to intercede for her with your Majesty.’
“王后是我的敌人，但不是您的敌人，陛下；相反，她是一位忠诚、顺从、无可指责的妻子。那么，陛下，请允许我为她向陛下求情。”

‘Let her humble herself, then, and come to me first.’
“那就让她谦虚一下，先来找我吧。”

‘On the contrary, sire, set the example. You have committed the first wrong, since it was you who suspected the queen.’
‘恰恰相反，陛下，请树立榜样。你犯了第一个错误，因为是你怀疑了女王。

‘What! I make the first advances?’ said the king. ‘Never!’
'什么！ “是我先行的吗？”国王说道。 '绝不！'

‘Sire, I entreat you to do so.’
“陛下，我恳求您这样做。”

‘Besides, in what manner can I make advances first?’
“另外，我可以通过什么方式先取得进展呢？”

‘By doing a thing which you know will be agreeable to her.’
“做一件你知道她会同意的事情。”

‘What is that?’
'那是什么？'

‘Give a ball; you know how much the queen loves dancing. I will answer for it, her resentment will not hold out against such an attention.’
‘给一个球；你知道女王有多喜欢跳舞。我会对此负责，她的怨恨不会抵挡住这样的关注。

‘Monsieur Cardinal, you know that I do not like worldly pleasures.’
“红衣主教先生，您知道我不喜欢世俗的享乐。”

‘The queen will only be the more grateful to you, as she knows your antipathy for that amusement; besides, it will be an opportunity for her to wear those beautiful diamonds which you gave her recently on her birthday and with which she has since had no occasion to adorn herself.’
“女王只会更加感激你，因为她知道你对这种娱乐的反感；此外，这对她来说也是一个佩戴那些美丽的钻石的机会，这些钻石是您最近在她生日时送给她的，但从那以后她就没有机会用这些钻石来装饰自己了。”

‘We shall see, Monsieur Cardinal, we shall see,’ said the king, who, in his joy at finding the queen guilty of a crime which he cared little about, and innocent of a fault of which he had great dread, was ready to make up all differences with her, ‘we shall see, but upon my honor, you are too indulgent toward her.’
“我们会看到的，红衣主教先生，我们会看到的，”国王说，他高兴地发现王后犯了一件他不太关心的罪行，而且没有犯下他非常害怕的过错，准备好了为了弥补与她之间的所有分歧，“我们会看到，但以我的名誉而言，你对她太纵容了。”

‘Sire,’ said the cardinal, ‘leave severity to your ministers. Clemency is a royal virtue; employ it, and you will find that you derive advantage therein.’
“陛下，”红衣主教说，“把严厉的事情交给你的大臣们吧。”仁慈是皇家的美德；使用它，你会发现你从中获得了优势。

Thereupon the cardinal, hearing the clock strike eleven, bowed low, asking permission of the king to retire, and supplicating him to come to a good understanding with the queen.
随后，红衣主教听到时钟敲响十一点，低下头，请求国王允许退休，并恳求他与王后达成良好的谅解。

Anne of Austria, who, in consequence of the seizure of her letter, expected reproaches, was much astonished the next day to see the king make some attempts at reconciliation with her. Her first movement was repellent. Her womanly pride and her queenly dignity had both been so cruelly offended that she could not come round at the first advance; but, overpersuaded by the advice of her women, she at last had the appearance of beginning to forget. The king took advantage of this favorable moment to tell her that her had the intention of shortly giving a fete.
奥地利的安妮由于她的信被没收，本以为会受到责备，但第二天她惊讶地发现国王做出了一些与她和解的尝试。她的第一个动作就令人厌恶。她作为女人的骄傲和女王的尊严都受到了如此残酷的侵犯，以至于她无法在第一次出现时就回心转意。但是，她被女人们的建议说服了，最后看起来开始忘记了。国王趁着这个有利时机告诉她，她打算不久后举行宴会。

A fete was so rare a thing for poor Anne of Austria that at this announcement, as the cardinal had predicted, the last trace of her resentment disappeared, if not from her heart at least from her countenance. She asked upon what day this fete would take place, but the king replied that he must consult the cardinal upon that head.
对于可怜的奥地利安妮来说，庆祝活动是一件非常罕见的事情，以至于正如红衣主教所预言的那样，在这一消息宣布后，她最后一丝怨恨消失了，即使不是从她的心里，至少从她的脸上消失了。她询问这个节日将在哪一天举行，但国王回答说他必须就此问题咨询红衣主教。

Indeed, every day the king asked the cardinal when this fete should take place; and every day the cardinal, under some pretext, deferred fixing it. Ten days passed away thus.
事实上，国王每天都会询问红衣主教什么时候举行这个节日。红衣主教每天都会以某种借口推迟修复它。十天就这样过去了。

On the eighth day after the scene we have described, the cardinal received a letter with the London stamp which only contained these lines: ‘I have them; but I am unable to leave London for want of money. Send me five hundred pistoles, and four or five days after I have received them I shall be in Paris.’
在我们所描述的场景发生后的第八天，红衣主教收到了一封贴有伦敦邮票的信，其中只包含这样几行：“我有它们；我有它们。”但由于缺钱我无法离开伦敦。寄给我五百皮斯托尔，收到后四五天我就到了巴黎。”

On the same day the cardinal received this letter the king put his customary question to him.
红衣主教收到这封信的同一天，国王向他提出了惯常的问题。

Richelieu counted on his fingers, and said to himself, ‘She will arrive, she says, four or five days after having received the money. It will require four or five days for the transmission of the money, four or five days for her to return; that makes ten days. Now, allowing for contrary winds, accidents, and a woman’s weakness, there are twelve days.’
黎塞留掰着手指头，自言自语道：“她说，收到钱后四五天就会到了。”汇款需要四五天，她回来也需要四五天；那就是十天。现在，考虑到逆风、事故和女人的虚弱，还有十二天。

‘Well, Monsieur Duke,’ said the king, ‘have you made your calculations?’
“那么，公爵先生，”国王说，“您计算好了吗？”

‘Yes, sire. Today is the twentieth of September. The aldermen of the city give a fete on the third of October. That will fall in wonderfully well; you will not appear to have gone out of your way to please the queen.’
“是的，陛下。今天是九月二十号。十月三日，该市的市议员们举行了一场庆祝活动。那会非常顺利；你不会显得特意去取悦女王。”

Then the cardinal added, ‘A PROPOS, sire, do not forget to tell her Majesty the evening before the fete that you should like to see how her diamond studs become her.’
然后红衣主教补充道：“建议，陛下，别忘了在节日前一天晚上告诉女王陛下，您想看看她的钻石耳钉如何适合她。”

17 BONACIEUX AT HOME
17 博纳西厄在家

It was the second time the cardinal had mentioned these diamond studs to the king. Louis XIII was struck with this insistence, and began to fancy that this recommendation concealed some mystery.
这是红衣主教第二次向国王提到这些钻石耳钉。路易十三对这种坚持感到震惊，并开始认为这个建议隐藏着一些秘密。

More than once the king had been humiliated by the cardinal, whose police, without having yet attained the perfection of the modern police, were excellent, being better informed than himself, even upon what was going on in his own household. He hoped, then, in a conversation with Anne of Austria, to obtain some information from that conversation, and afterward to come upon his Eminence with some secret which the cardinal either knew or did not know, but which, in either case, would raise him infinitely in the eyes of his minister.
国王不止一次被红衣主教羞辱，红衣主教的警察虽然还没有达到现代警察的完美程度，但却很出色，比他更了解情况，甚至了解他自己家里发生的事情。然后，他希望在与奥地利的安妮的谈话中，从这次谈话中获得一些信息，然后向主教大人提出一些秘密，红衣主教要么知道，要么不知道，但无论哪种情况，都会引起人们的注意。他在大臣眼中无限。

He went then to the queen, and according to custom accosted her with fresh menaces against those who surrounded her. Anne of Austria lowered her head, allowed the torrent to flow on without replying, hoping that it would cease of itself; but this was not what Louis XIII meant. Louis XIII wanted a discussion from which some light or other might break, convinced as he was that the cardinal had some afterthought and was preparing for him one of those terrible surprises which his Eminence was so skillful in getting up. He arrived at this end by his persistence in accusation.
然后他去找王后，按照惯例向她搭话，对她周围的人发出新的威胁。奥地利的安妮低下头，任由洪流继续流淌，没有回应，希望它会自行停止。但这并不是路易十三的意思。路易十三希望进行一次讨论，以便从中打破一些线索，因为他确信红衣主教有一些事后的想法，正在为他准备一个可怕的惊喜，而他的主教阁下却如此熟练地准备好了。他之所以走到这一步，是因为他坚持不懈的指责。

‘But,’ cried Anne of Austria, tired of these vague attacks, ‘but, sire, you do not tell me all that you have in your heart. What have I done, then? Let me know what crime I have committed. It is impossible that your Majesty can make all this ado about a letter written to my brother.’
“但是，”奥地利的安妮厌倦了这些模糊的攻击，大声喊道，“但是，陛下，您没有告诉我您心里的一切。那我做了什么？让我知道我犯了什么罪。陛下不可能因为一封写给我弟弟的信而大惊小怪。

The king, attacked in a manner so direct, did not know what to answer; and he thought that this was the moment for expressing the desire which he was not going to have made until the evening before the fete.
国王受到如此直接的攻击，不知道该如何回答。他认为现在是表达愿望的时刻，而他直到节日前一天晚上才打算表达愿望。

‘Madame,’ said he, with dignity, ‘there will shortly be a ball at the Hotel de Ville. I wish, in order to honor our worthy aldermen, you should appear in ceremonial costume, and above all, ornamented with the diamond studs which I gave you on your birthday. That is my answer.’
“女士，”他庄严地说，“很快就会在巴黎市政厅举行一场舞会。我希望，为了向我们可敬的市议员致敬，您应该穿着礼服出现，最重要的是，佩戴我在您生日时送给您的钻石耳钉。这就是我的答案。

The answer was terrible. Anne of Austria believed that Louis XIII knew all, and that the cardinal had persuaded him to employ this long dissimulation of seven or eight days, which, likewise, was characteristic. She became excessively pale, leaned her beautiful hand upon a CONSOLE, which hand appeared then like one of wax, and looking at the king with terror in her eyes, she was unable to reply by a single syllable.
答案很糟糕。奥地利的安妮相信路易十三知道一切，红衣主教说服他采用了七八天的长时间掩饰，这同样是典型的。她脸色变得极其苍白，把她美丽的手靠在控制台上，那只手当时看起来像一只蜡，她用恐惧的眼神看着国王，她无法回答一个音节。

‘You hear, madame,’ said the king, who enjoyed the embarrassment to its full extent, but without guessing the cause. ‘You hear, madame?’
“您听到了，夫人，”国王说，他非常享受这种尴尬，但没有猜到原因。 “你听到了吗，女士？”

‘Yes, sire, I hear,’ stammered the queen.
“是的，陛下，我听到了，”王后结结巴巴地说。

‘You will appear at this ball?’
“你会出现在这个舞会上吗？”

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘With those studs?’
“用那些钉子？”

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

The queen’s paleness, if possible, increased; the king perceived it, and enjoyed it with that cold cruelty which was one of the worst sides of his character.
如果可能的话，王后的脸色更加苍白了。国王察觉到了这一点，并以冷酷的残忍来享受它，这是他性格中最糟糕的一面之一。

‘Then that is agreed,’ said the king, ‘and that is all I had to say to you.’
“那就这么说定了，”国王说道，“这就是我要对你说的全部内容。”

‘But on what day will this ball take place?’ asked Anne of Austria.
“但是这个舞会在哪一天举行呢？”奥地利的安妮问道。

Louis XIII felt instinctively that he ought not to reply to this question, the queen having put it in an almost dying voice.
路易十三本能地觉得自己不应该回答这个问题，因为王后的声音几乎要死了。

‘Oh, very shortly, madame,’ said he; ‘but I do not precisely recollect the date of the day. I will ask the cardinal.’
“哦，很快，夫人，”他说。 “但我记不清那天的具体日期了。我会问红衣主教。

‘It was the cardinal, then, who informed you of this fete?’
“那么，是谁告诉你这个节日的？”

‘Yes, madame,’ replied the astonished king; ‘but why do you ask that?’
“是的，夫人，”国王惊讶地回答道。 “但是你为什么这么问呢？”

‘It was he who told you to invite me to appear with these studs?’
“是他让你邀请我带着这些饰钉出现的？”

‘That is to say, madame—‘
“也就是说，夫人——”

‘It was he, sire, it was he!’
“是他，陛下，是他！”

‘Well, and what does it signify whether it was he or I? Is there any crime in this request?’
“那么，无论是他还是我，这意味着什么？这个要求有犯罪行为吗？

‘No, sire.’
“不，陛下。”

‘Then you will appear?’
“那你会出现吗？”

‘Yes, sire.’
“是的，陛下。”

‘That is well,’ said the king, retiring, ‘that is well; I count upon it.’
“那就好，”国王退了出去，说道，“那就好；我指望它。

The queen made a curtsy, less from etiquette than because her knees were sinking under her. The king went away enchanted.
女王行了个屈膝礼，与其说是出于礼节，不如说是因为她的膝盖陷了下去。国王心醉神迷地走了。

‘I am lost,’ murmured the queen, ‘lost!—for the cardinal knows all, and it is he who urges on the king, who as yet knows nothing but will soon know everything. I am lost! My God, my God, my God!’
“我迷路了，”王后低声说道，“迷路了！”——因为红衣主教知道一切，正是他向国王发出呼吁，国王现在一无所知，但很快就会知道一切。我搞不清楚了！我的上帝，我的上帝，我的上帝！

She knelt upon a cushion and prayed, with her head buried between her palpitating arms.
她跪在垫子上祈祷，把头埋在颤抖的双臂之间。

In fact, her position was terrible. Buckingham had returned to London; Mme. Chevreuse was at Tours. More closely watched than ever, the queen felt certain, without knowing how to tell which, that one of her women had betrayed her. Laporte could not leave the Louvre; she had not a soul in the world in whom she could confide. Thus, while contemplating the misfortune which threatened her and the abandonment in which she was left, she broke out into sobs and tears.
事实上，她的处境很糟糕。白金汉已返回伦敦。女士。切夫勒斯在图尔。女王比以往任何时候都受到更密切的监视，她确信自己的一个女人背叛了她，但她不知道如何辨别。拉波尔特无法离开卢浮宫；她在世界上没有一个可以倾诉的灵魂。因此，当她想到威胁她的不幸以及她被遗弃的情况时，她哭了起来。

‘Can I be of service to your Majesty?’ said all at once a voice full of sweetness and pity.
“我可以为陛下效劳吗？”一个充满甜蜜和怜悯的声音突然说道。

The queen turned sharply round, for there could be no deception in the expression of that voice; it was a friend who spoke thus.
王后猛地转过身来，因为那声音的表情不可能是骗人的。这么说的是一位朋友。

In fact, at one of the doors which opened into the queen’s apartment appeared the pretty Mme. Bonacieux. She had been engaged in arranging the dresses and linen in a closet when the king entered; she could not get out and had heard all.
事实上，在通往王后公寓的一扇门前，出现了漂亮的夫人。博纳西厄。国王进来时，她正在壁橱里整理衣服和亚麻布。她无法出去，却听到了一切。

The queen uttered a piercing cry at finding herself surprised— for in her trouble she did not at first recognize the young woman who had been given to her by Laporte.
王后惊讶地大叫一声——因为在她的麻烦中，她一开始并没有认出拉波尔特送给她的那个年轻女子。

‘Oh, fear nothing, madame!’ said the young woman, clasping her hands and weeping herself at the queen’s sorrows; ‘I am your Majesty’s, body and soul, and however far I may be from you, however inferior may be my position, I believe I have discovered a means of extricating your Majesty from your trouble.’
“哦，别害怕，夫人！”年轻女子说，她握着双手，为王后的悲伤而哭泣。 “我的身体和灵魂都是陛下的，无论我离您有多远，无论我的地位多么低下，我相信我已经找到了一种方法，可以让陛下摆脱麻烦。”

‘You, oh, heaven, you!’ cried the queen; ‘but look me in the face. I am betrayed on all sides. Can I trust in you?’
“你，天啊，你！”王后喊道。 ‘但是看着我的脸。我被四面八方出卖了。我可以相信你吗？

‘Oh, madame!’ cried the young woman, falling on her knees; ‘upon my soul, I am ready to die for your Majesty!’
“噢，夫人！”年轻女子跪倒在地，叫道。 “以我的灵魂起誓，我已经准备好为陛下而死！”

This expression sprang from the very bottom of the heart, and, like the first, there was no mistaking it.
这表情是从心底涌出来的，和第一个一样，毫无疑问。

‘Yes,’ continued Mme. Bonacieux, ‘yes, there are traitors here; but by the holy name of the Virgin, I swear that no one is more devoted to your Majesty than I am. Those studs which the king speaks of, you gave them to the Duke of Buckingham, did you not? Those studs were enclosed in a little rosewood box which he held under his arm? Am I deceived? Is it not so, madame?’
“是的，”夫人继续说道。博纳希厄：“是的，这里有叛徒；但以圣母圣名的名义，我发誓，没有人比我更忠于陛下。国王所说的那些耳钉，是你送给白金汉公爵的，不是吗？那些螺柱装在一个红木小盒子里，他把它夹在腋下？我被骗了吗？是不是这样，女士？

‘Oh, my God, my God!’ murmured the queen, whose teeth chattered with fright.
“哦，我的上帝，我的上帝！”王后低声说道，她的牙齿吓得打战。

‘Well, those studs,’ continued Mme. Bonacieux, ‘we must have them back again.’
“好吧，那些饰钉，”夫人继续说道。 Bonacieux，“我们必须让他们回来。”

‘Yes, without doubt, it is necessary,’ cried the queen; ‘but how am I to act? How can it be effected?’
“是的，毫无疑问，这是必要的，”王后喊道。 ‘但是我该如何行动呢？怎样才能实现呢？

‘Someone must be sent to the duke.’
“必须派人去见公爵。”

‘But who, who? In whom can I trust?’
‘但是谁，谁？我可以信任谁？

‘Place confidence in me, madame; do me that honor, my queen, and I will find a messenger.’
“请相信我，女士；请赐予我这份荣誉，女王陛下，我会找到一位使者。”

‘But I must write.’
“但我必须写。”

‘Oh, yes; that is indispensable. Two words from the hand of your Majesty and your private seal.’
'哦是的;这是不可或缺的。陛下亲笔所写的两句话和您的私人印章。

‘But these two words would bring about my condemnation, divorce, exile!’
“但这两个字就会招致我的谴责、离婚、流放！”

‘Yes, if they fell into infamous hands. But I will answer for these two words being delivered to their address.’
“是的，如果他们落入臭名昭著的手中。但我会回答将这两个字送到他们的地址。

‘Oh, my God! I must then place my life, my honor, my reputation, in your hands?’
'我的天啊！那么我就必须把我的生命、我的荣誉、我的名誉交到你手里吗？

‘Yes, yes, madame, you must; and I will save them all.’
“是的，是的，夫人，你必须这样做；我会拯救他们所有人。

‘But how? Tell me at least the means.’
‘但是怎么办呢？至少告诉我方法。

‘My husband had been at liberty these two or three days. I have not yet had time to see him again. He is a worthy, honest man who entertains neither love nor hatred for anybody. He will do anything I wish. He will set out upon receiving an order from me, without knowing what he carries, and he will carry your Majesty’s letter, without even knowing it is from your Majesty, to the address which is on it.’
“我丈夫这两三天一直处于自由状态。我还没有时间再次见到他。他是一个值得尊敬、诚实的人，对任何人都没有爱或恨。他会做任何我想做的事。他会在收到我的命令后出发，而不知道他携带的是什么，他会带着陛下的信，甚至不知道它是来自陛下的，到达上面的地址。

The queen took the two hands of the young woman with a burst of emotion, gazed at her as if to read her very heart, and seeing nothing but sincerity in her beautiful eyes, embraced her tenderly.
女王心潮澎湃地握住少女的两只手，凝视着她，仿佛读懂了她的内心，在她美丽的眸子里看到了真诚，温柔地拥抱了她。

‘Do that,’ cried she, ‘and you will have saved my life, you will have saved my honor!’
“这样做，”她喊道，“你就救了我的命，你就救了我的荣誉！”

‘Do not exaggerate the service I have the happiness to render your Majesty. I have nothing to save for your Majesty; you are only the victim of perfidious plots.’
“不要夸大我很高兴为陛下提供的服务。我没有什么可以为陛下保留的；你只是背信弃义阴谋的受害者。

‘That is true, that is true, my child,’ said the queen, ‘you are right.’
“这是真的，这是真的，我的孩子，”王后说，“你是对的。”

‘Give me then, that letter, madame; time presses.’
“那么请把那封信给我，女士；时间紧迫。

The queen ran to a little table, on which were ink, paper, and pens. She wrote two lines, sealed the letter with her private seal, and gave it to Mme. Bonacieux.
王后跑到一张小桌子前，桌上放着墨水、纸和笔。她写了两行字，用私人印章封好信，交给了夫人。博纳西厄。

‘And now,’ said the queen, ‘we are forgetting one very necessary thing.’
“现在，”女王说，“我们忘记了一件非常必要的事情。”

‘What is that, madame?’
“那是什么，女士？”

‘Money.’
'钱。'

Mme. Bonacieux blushed.
女士。博纳希厄脸红了。

‘Yes, that is true,’ said she, ‘and I will confess to your Majesty that my husband—‘
“是的，确实如此，”她说，“我向陛下承认，我的丈夫——”

‘Your husband has none. Is that what you would say?’
“你丈夫没有。”你会这么说吗？

‘He has some, but he is very avaricious; that is his fault. Nevertheless, let not your Majesty be uneasy, we will find means.’
‘他有一些，但他非常贪婪；这是他的错。不过，请陛下放心，我们会想办法的。”

‘And I have none, either,’ said the queen. Those who have read the MEMOIRS of Mme. de Motteville will not be astonished at this reply. ‘But wait a minute.’
“我也没有，”王后说。那些读过夫人回忆录的人。德莫特维尔不会对这个答复感到惊讶。 “但是等一下。”

Anne of Austria ran to her jewel case.
奥地利的安妮跑向她的珠宝盒。

‘Here,’ said she, ‘here is a ring of great value, as I have been assured. It came from my brother, the King of Spain. It is mine, and I am at liberty to dispose of it. Take this ring; raise money with it, and let your husband set out.’
“这里，”她说，“这是一枚价值不菲的戒指，我已经得到保证了。”它来自我的兄弟，西班牙国王。它是我的，我可以自由处置它。拿着这枚戒指；用它筹集资金，然后让你丈夫出发。

‘In an hour you shall be obeyed.’
“一个小时后，你就会服从。”

‘You see the address,’ said the queen, speaking so low that Mme. Bonacieux could hardly hear what she said, ‘To my Lord Duke of Buckingham, London.’
“你看到地址了，”女王说道，声音很低，以至于夫人。博纳希厄几乎听不见她说的话：“致伦敦白金汉公爵大人。”

‘The letter shall be given to himself.’
“这封信应该交给他自己。”

‘Generous girl!’ cried Anne of Austria.
“慷慨的女孩！”奥地利的安妮喊道。

Mme. Bonacieux kissed the hands of the queen, concealed the paper in the bosom of her dress, and disappeared with the lightness of a bird.
女士。博纳希厄亲吻了王后的手，把纸藏在裙子的怀里，然后像鸟儿一样轻盈地消失了。

Ten minutes afterward she was at home. As she told the queen, she had not seen her husband since his liberation; she was ignorant of the change that had taken place in him with respect to the cardinal—a change which had since been strengthened by two or three visits from the Comte de Rochefort, who had become the best friend of Bonacieux, and had persuaded him, without much trouble, was putting his house in order, the furniture of which he had found mostly broken and his closets nearly empty—justice not being one of the three things which King Solomon names as leaving no traces of their passage. As to the servant, she had run away at the moment of her master’s arrest. Terror had had such an effect upon the poor girl that she had never ceased walking from Paris till she reached Burgundy, her native place.
十分钟后，她就到家了。正如她告诉女王的那样，自从丈夫获释以来，她就再也没有见过他。她不知道他对红衣主教的态度发生了变化——这种变化后来因罗什福尔伯爵的两三次来访而得到加强，罗什福尔伯爵已成为博纳希厄最好的朋友，并说服了他，他毫不费力地整理了他的房子，他发现里面的家具大部分都坏了，他的壁橱几乎是空的——正义并不是所罗门王所说的不留痕迹的三件事之一。至于仆人，她在主人被捕的那一刻就已经逃跑了。恐惧对这个可怜的女孩产生了如此大的影响，以至于她从未停止过从巴黎步行到她的家乡勃艮第的脚步。

The worthy mercer had, immediately upon re-entering his house, informed his wife of his happy return, and his wife had replied by congratulating him, and telling him that the first moment she could steal from her duties should be devoted to paying him a visit.
这位可敬的商人一回到家，就立即向妻子通报了他的快乐归来，而他的妻子则向他表示祝贺，并告诉他，一旦她可以偷窃自己的职责，就应该专门付给他一笔钱。访问。

This first moment had been delayed five days, which, under any other circumstances, might have appeared rather long to M. Bonacieux; but he had, in the visit he had made to the cardinal and in the visits Rochefort had made him, ample subjects for reflection, and as everybody knows, nothing makes time pass more quickly than reflection.
这第一时刻被推迟了五天，在任何其他情况下，这对博纳瑟厄先生来说可能显得相当长。但是，在他拜访红衣主教和罗什福尔拜访他的过程中，他有足够的思考主题，众所周知，没有什么比思考更能让时间过得更快了。

This was the more so because Bonacieux’s reflections were all rose-colored. Rochefort called him his friend, his dear Bonacieux, and never ceased telling him that the cardinal had a great respect for him. The mercer fancied himself already on the high road to honors and fortune.
更是如此，因为博纳希厄的倒影都是玫瑰色的。罗什福尔称他为朋友、亲爱的博纳希厄，并不断地告诉他红衣主教非常尊重他。商人幻想自己已经走上了通往荣誉和财富的大道。

On her side Mme. Bonacieux had also reflected; but, it must be admitted, upon something widely different from ambition. In spite of herself her thoughts constantly reverted to that handsome young man who was so brave and appeared to be so much in love. Married at eighteen to M. Bonacieux, having always lived among her husband’s friends—people little capable of inspiring any sentiment whatever in a young woman whose heart was above her position—Mme. Bonacieux had remained insensible to vulgar seductions; but at this period the title of gentleman had great influence with the citizen class, and d’Artagnan was a gentleman. Besides, he wore the uniform of the Guards, which next to that of the Musketeers was most admired by the ladies. He was, we repeat, handsome, young, and bold; he spoke of love like a man who did love and was anxious to be loved in return. There was certainly enough in all this to turn a head only twenty-three years old, and Mme. Bonacieux had just attained that happy period of life.
夫人在她这边。博纳西厄也曾反思过；但是，必须承认，它所依据的东西与野心有很大不同。她的思绪不由自主地不断地回到那个英俊的年轻人身上，他是如此勇敢，而且似乎如此深爱着他。十八岁时与博纳西厄先生结婚，一直生活在她丈夫的朋友们中间——这些人几乎无法激发一个心高于自己立场的年轻女子的任何感情。博纳希厄对粗俗的诱惑仍然麻木不仁。但在这个时期，绅士的称号在公民阶级中产生了很大的影响，而达达尼昂就是一位绅士。此外，他还穿着近卫军的制服，仅次于火枪手的制服，最受女士们的喜爱。我们再说一遍，他英俊、年轻、大胆。他谈论爱就像一个真正爱过并且渴望被爱回报的人。这一切确实足以让年仅二十三岁的人回头，而夫人。博纳希厄刚刚度过了人生的幸福时光。

The couple, then, although they had not seen each other for eight days, and during that time serious events had taken place in which both were concerned, accosted each other with a degree of preoccupation. Nevertheless, Bonacieux manifested real joy, and advanced toward his wife with open arms. Madame Bonacieux presented her cheek to him.
尽管这对夫妇已经八天没有见面了，而且在这段时间里发生了一些双方都关心的重大事件，但他们还是以某种程度的专注来交谈。尽管如此，博纳希厄还是表现出了真正的喜悦，张开双臂走向他的妻子。博纳瑟夫人把脸颊凑到他面前。

‘Let us talk a little,’ said she.
“让我们谈谈吧，”她说。

‘How!’ said Bonacieux, astonished.
“怎么会这样！”博纳希厄惊讶地说。

‘Yes, I have something of the highest importance to tell you.’
“是的，我有一些最重要的事情要告诉你。”

‘True,’ said he, ‘and I have some questions sufficiently serious to put to you. Describe to me your abduction, I pray you.’
“是的，”他说，“我有一些非常严肃的问题要问你。请向我描述一下你被绑架的经历。

‘Oh, that’s of no consequence just now,’ said Mme. Bonacieux.
“哦，现在这已经不重要了，”夫人说。博纳西厄。

‘And what does it concern, then—my captivity?’
“那么，这又关乎什么呢——我的囚禁？”

‘I heard of it the day it happened; but as you were not guilty of any crime, as you were not guilty of any intrigue, as you, in short, knew nothing that could compromise yourself or anybody else, I attached no more importance to that event than it merited.’
“事情发生的那天我就听说了；但由于你没有犯下任何罪行，因为你没有犯下任何阴谋，简而言之，因为你不知道任何可能危及你自己或其他任何人的事情，所以我对那件事的重视程度并没有超过它应有的程度。

‘You speak very much at your ease, madame,’ said Bonacieux, hurt at the little interest his wife showed in him. ‘Do you know that I was plunged during a day and night in a dungeon of the Bastille?’
“您说话很轻松，夫人，”博纳希厄说，他因妻子对他表现出的一点兴趣而感到受伤。 “你知道我在巴士底狱的地牢里关了一天一夜吗？”

‘Oh, a day and night soon pass away. Let us return to the object that brings me here.’
‘哦，一天一夜很快就过去了。让我们回到把我带到这里的物体上。

‘What, that which brings you home to me? Is it not the desire of seeing a husband again from whom you have been separated for a week?’ asked the mercer, piqued to the quick.
‘什么，是什么让你回到我身边？这难道不是渴望再次见到已经分开一个星期的丈夫吗？”布商火急火燎地问道。

‘Yes, that first, and other things afterward.’
“是的，首先是这个，然后是其他事情。”

‘Speak.’
'说话。'

‘It is a thing of the highest interest, and upon which our future fortune perhaps depends.’
“这是一件最重要的事情，我们未来的命运也许取决于它。”

‘The complexion of our fortune has changed very much since I saw you, Madam Bonacieux, and I should not be astonished if in the course of a few months it were to excite the envy of many folks.’
“自从我见到您以来，我们的命运发生了很大的变化，博纳瑟夫人，如果在几个月内它引起了许多人的嫉妒，我不应该感到惊讶。”

‘Yes, particularly if you follow the instructions I am about to give you.’
“是的，特别是如果你遵循我即将给你的指示。”

‘Me?’
'我？'

‘Yes, you. There is good and holy action to be performed, monsieur, and much money to be gained at the same time.’
'是的，就是你。先生，我们有美好而神圣的行动要做，同时还能赚到很多钱。”

Mme. Bonacieux knew that in talking of money to her husband, she took him on his weak side. But a man, were he even a mercer, when he had talked for ten minutes with Cardinal Richelieu, is no longer the same man.
女士。博纳瑟知道，当她与丈夫谈论金钱时，她会站在他的软弱一边。但一个人，即使是一个商人，当他与红衣主教黎塞留交谈了十分钟后，就不再是同一个人了。

‘Much money to be gained?’ said Bonacieux, protruding his lip.
“能赚到多少钱？”博纳希厄伸出嘴唇说道。

‘Yes, much.’
“是的，很多。”

‘About how much?’
“大约多少钱？”

‘A thousand pistoles, perhaps.’
“也许是一千皮斯托尔。”

‘What you demand of me is serious, then?’
“那么你对我的要求是认真的吗？”

‘It is indeed.’
'真的是。'

‘What must be done?’
“必须做什么？”

‘You must go away immediately. I will give you a paper which you must not part with on any account, and which you will deliver into the proper hands.’
‘你必须立即离开。我将给你一份文件，你无论如何都不能放弃它，并且你将把它交给适当的人。

‘And whither am I to go?’
“那我该去哪里呢？”

‘To London.’
'去伦敦。'

‘I go to London? Go to! You jest! I have no business in London.’
‘我去伦敦？去！你开玩笑！我在伦敦没有什么事。

‘But others wish that you should go there.’
“但其他人希望你应该去那里。”

‘But who are those others? I warn you that I will never again work in the dark, and that I will know not only to what I expose myself, but for whom I expose myself.’
“但是其他人是谁呢？我警告你们，我永远不会再在黑暗中工作，我不仅会知道我暴露自己的对象，而且知道我暴露自己的对象。

‘An illustrious person sends you; an illustrious person awaits you. The recompense will exceed your expectations; that is all I promise you.’
‘一位显赫人物派遣你来；一位杰出的人物在等着你。回报将超出你的预期；这就是我向你保证的一切。

‘More intrigues! Nothing but intrigues! Thank you, madame, I am aware of them now; Monsieur Cardinal has enlightened me on that head.’
‘还有更多的阴谋！除了阴谋，一无所有！谢谢您，女士，我现在知道了。红衣主教先生在这一点上启发了我。”

‘The cardinal?’ cried Mme. Bonacieux. ‘Have you seen the cardinal?’
“红衣主教？”夫人喊道。博纳西厄。 “你见过红衣主教吗？”

‘He sent for me,’ answered the mercer, proudly.
“他派人来找我了，”布商自豪地回答。

‘And you responded to his bidding, you imprudent man?’
“你就听从了他的吩咐，你这个轻率的人？”

‘Well, I can’t say I had much choice of going or not going, for I was taken to him between two guards. It is true also, that as I did not then know his Eminence, if I had been able to dispense with the visit, I should have been enchanted.’
“嗯，我不能说我有太多选择去或不去，因为我是被带到他身边的两个警卫中间。确实，由于我当时并不认识他的主教阁下，如果我能够免去这次拜访，我一定会被迷住的。

‘He ill-treated you, then; he threatened you?’
“那么，他虐待了你；他威胁你？

‘He gave me his hand, and called me his friend. His friend! Do you hear that, madame? I am the friend of the great cardinal!’
“他向我伸出了手，并称我为他的朋友。他的朋友！你听到了吗，女士？我是伟大红衣主教的朋友！

‘Of the great cardinal!’
“伟大的红衣主教！”

‘Perhaps you would contest his right to that title, madame?’
“也许您会质疑他获得这个头衔的权利，女士？”

‘I would contest nothing; but I tell you that the favor of a minister is ephemeral, and that a man must be mad to attach himself to a minister. There are powers above his which do not depend upon a man or the issue of an event; it is to these powers we should rally.’
“我不会提出任何异议；但我告诉你们，臣子的恩惠是短暂的，一个人一定是疯了才依附于臣子的。有一些权力高于他，这些权力不取决于一个人或一个事件的结果。我们应该团结起来支持这些力量。

‘I am sorry for it, madame, but I acknowledge not her power but that of the great man whom I have the honor to serve.’
“我对此感到抱歉，夫人，但我承认的不是她的力量，而是我有幸服务的伟人的力量。”

‘You serve the cardinal?’
“你为红衣主教服务？”

‘Yes, madame; and as his servant, I will not allow you to be concerned in plots against the safety of the state, or to serve the intrigues of a woman who is not French and who has a Spanish heart. Fortunately we have the great cardinal; his vigilant eye watches over and penetrates to the bottom of the heart.’
“是的，夫人；作为他的仆人，我不会允许你参与危害国家安全的阴谋，或者为一个不是法国人但有一颗西班牙心的女人的阴谋服务。幸运的是，我们有伟大的红衣主教；他警惕的目光注视着并渗透到心底。

Bonacieux was repeating, word for word, a sentence which he had heard from the Comte de Rochefort; but the poor wife, who had reckoned on her husband, and who, in that hope, had answered for him to the queen, did not tremble the less, both at the danger into which she had nearly cast herself and at the helpless state to which she was reduced. Nevertheless, knowing the weakness of her husband, and more particularly his cupidity, she did not despair of bringing him round to her purpose.
博纳希厄正在逐字重复他从罗什福尔伯爵那里听到的一句话。但是可怜的妻子，她一直指望着她的丈夫，并且本着这种希望，代表他向王后负责，她并没有因此而颤抖，无论是在她几乎陷入的危险中，还是在无助的状态中。她被减少了。尽管如此，她知道丈夫的弱点，尤其是他的贪婪，所以她并不绝望，要让他达到她的目的。

‘Ah, you are a cardinalist, then, monsieur, are you?’ cried she; ‘and you serve the party of those who maltreat your wife and insult your queen?’
“啊，那么，先生，您是一位红衣主教，是吗？”她喊道。 “你为那些虐待你的妻子和侮辱你的女王的人服务吗？”

‘Private interests are as nothing before the interests of all. I am for those who save the state,’ said Bonacieux, emphatically.
“在所有人的利益面前，私人利益微不足道。”我支持那些拯救国家的人。”博纳西厄强调道。

‘And what do you know about the state you talk of?’ said Mme. Bonacieux, shrugging her shoulders. ‘Be satisfied with being a plain, straightforward citizen, and turn to that side which offers the most advantages.’
“你对你所说的国家了解多少？”博纳希厄耸耸肩。 “满足于做一个朴素、直率的公民，然后转向最有利的一方。”

‘Eh, eh!’ said Bonacieux, slapping a plump, round bag, which returned a sound a money; ‘what do you think of this, Madame Preacher?’
“呃，呃！”博纳希厄说着，拍打着一个圆鼓鼓的袋子，响了一声，钱就回来了。 “你对此有何看法，传教士夫人？”

‘Whence comes that money?’
“这些钱从哪里来？”

‘You do not guess?’
“你猜不出来吗？”

‘From the cardinal?’
“来自红衣主教？”

‘From him, and from my friend the Comte de Rochefort.’
“来自他，还有我的朋友罗什福尔伯爵。”

‘The Comte de Rochefort! Why it was he who carried me off!’
“罗什福尔伯爵！为什么是他把我带走了！

‘That may be, madame!’
“也许是这样，女士！”

‘And you receive silver from that man?’
“你从那个人那里得到了银子吗？”

‘Have you not said that that abduction was entirely political?’
“你不是说那次绑架完全是政治性的吗？”

‘Yes; but that abduction had for its object the betrayal of my mistress, to draw from me by torture confessions that might compromise the honor, and perhaps the life, of my august mistress.’
'是的;但这次绑架的目的是背叛我的情妇，通过酷刑逼迫我招供，这可能会损害我尊贵的情妇的荣誉，甚至可能危及我的生命。

‘Madame,’ replied Bonacieux, ‘your august mistress is a perfidious Spaniard, and what the cardinal does is well done.’
“夫人，”博纳希厄回答道，“您尊贵的女主人是个背信弃义的西班牙人，而红衣主教的做法做得很好。”

‘Monsieur,’ said the young woman, ‘I know you to be cowardly, avaricious, and foolish, but I never till now believed you infamous!’
“先生，”年轻女子说道，“我知道您胆小、贪婪、愚蠢，但我直到现在才相信您是臭名昭著的！”

‘Madame,’ said Bonacieux, who had never seen his wife in a passion, and who recoiled before this conjugal anger, ‘madame, what do you say?’
“夫人，”博纳希厄说道，他从未见过他的妻子陷入激情，面对这种夫妻间的愤怒，他退缩了，“夫人，您说什么？”

‘I say you are a miserable creature!’ continued Mme. Bonacieux, who saw she was regaining some little influence over her husband. ‘You meddle with politics, do you—and still more, with cardinalist politics? Why, you sell yourself, body and soul, to the demon, the devil, for money!’
“我说你是一个可怜的人！”夫人继续说道。博纳西厄发现她对丈夫的影响力正在恢复。 ‘你干涉政治，是不是——而且还干涉了红衣主教政治？为什么，你为了钱，把自己的身体和灵魂出卖给恶魔，魔鬼！

‘No, to the cardinal.’
“不，是对红衣主教。”

‘It’s the same thing,’ cried the young woman. ‘Who calls Richelieu calls Satan.’
“都是一样的，”年轻女子喊道。 “谁称黎塞留为撒旦。”

‘Hold your tongue, hold your tongue, madame! You may be overheard.’
‘闭嘴，闭嘴，夫人！你可能会被偷听。

‘Yes, you are right; I should be ashamed for anyone to know your baseness.’
'是的你是对的;我应该为任何人知道你的卑鄙而感到羞耻。

‘But what do you require of me, then? Let us see.’
‘那么你对我有什么要求呢？让我们来看看。'

‘I have told you. You must depart instantly, monsieur. You must accomplish loyally the commission with which I deign to charge you, and on that condition I pardon everything, I forget everything; and what is more,’ and she held out her hand to him, ‘I restore my love.’
'我已经告诉你。您必须立即离开，先生。你必须忠诚地完成我托付给你的使命，在这个条件下，我原谅一切，我忘记一切；更重要的是，”她向他伸出了手，“我恢复了我的爱。”

Bonacieux was cowardly and avaricious, but he loved his wife. He was softened. A man of fifty cannot long bear malice with a wife of twenty-three. Mme. Bonacieux saw that he hesitated.
博纳希厄懦弱而贪婪，但他爱他的妻子。他的心软了。五十岁的男人不能长期忍受二十三岁的妻子的恶意。女士。博纳希厄看出他犹豫了。

‘Come! Have you decided?’ said she.
'来！你决定了吗？”她说。

‘But, my dear love, reflect a little upon what you require of me. London is far from Paris, very far, and perhaps the commission with which you charge me is not without dangers?’
“但是，我亲爱的，请思考一下你对我的要求。伦敦离巴黎很远，很远，也许你委托给我的任务并非没有危险？

‘What matters it, if you avoid them?’
“如果你避开它们，那又有什么关系呢？”

‘Hold, Madame Bonacieux,’ said the mercer, ‘hold! I positively refuse; intrigues terrify me. I have seen the Bastille. My! Whew! That’s a frightful place, that Bastille! Only to think of it makes my flesh crawl. They threatened me with torture. Do you know what torture is? Wooden points that they stick in between your legs till your bones stick out! No, positively I will not go. And, MORBLEU, why do you not go yourself? For in truth, I think I have hitherto been deceived in you. I really believe you are a man, and a violent one, too.’
“等一下，博纳瑟夫人，”布商说，“等一下！我坚决拒绝；阴谋让我害怕。我见过巴士底狱。我的！哇！那是一个可怕的地方，巴士底狱！光是想想就让我浑身起鸡皮疙瘩。他们用酷刑威胁我。你知道什么是酷刑吗？它们会插入你的双腿之间，直到你的骨头伸出来！不，我肯定不会去。还有，莫布鲁，你为什么不自己去呢？事实上，我认为迄今为止我一直被你欺骗了。我真的相信你是一个男人，而且也是一个暴力的男人。”

‘And you, you are a woman—a miserable woman, stupid and brutal. You are afraid, are you? Well, if you do not go this very instant, I will have you arrested by the queen’s orders, and I will have you placed in the Bastille which you dread so much.’
‘而你，你是一个女人——一个悲惨的女人，愚蠢而残忍。你害怕了，是吗？好吧，如果你不立即去，我会按照女王的命令逮捕你，然后把你关进你非常害怕的巴士底狱。

Bonacieux fell into a profound reflection. He weighed the two angers in his brain—that of the cardinal and that of the queen; that of the cardinal predominated enormously.
博纳希厄陷入了深刻的反思。他掂量着脑子里的两种愤怒——红衣主教的愤怒和王后的愤怒。红衣主教的主张占据了极大的优势。

‘Have me arrested on the part of the queen,’ said he, ‘and I—I will appeal to his Eminence.’
“请女王逮捕我，”他说道，“我——我会向陛下上诉。”

At once Mme. Bonacieux saw that she had gone too far, and she was terrified at having communicated so much. She for a moment contemplated with fright that stupid countenance, impressed with the invincible resolution of a fool that is overcome by fear.
立刻夫人。博纳希厄看出她做得太过分了，她对交流这么多感到害怕。她一时惊恐地凝视着那张愚蠢的脸，为一个被恐惧压倒的傻瓜所表现出的无敌决心所折服。

‘Well, be it so!’ said she. ‘Perhaps, when all is considered, you are right. In the long run, a man knows more about politics than a woman, particularly such as, like you, Monsieur Bonacieux, have conversed with the cardinal. And yet it is very hard,’ added she, ‘that a man upon whose affection I thought I might depend, treats me thus unkindly and will not comply with any of my fancies.’
“好吧，就这样吧！”她说。 ‘也许，当考虑到一切时，你是对的。从长远来看，男人比女人更了解政治，特别是像您博纳西厄先生与红衣主教交谈过的那样。然而，这非常困难，”她补充道，“一个我以为我可以依赖的感情的男人对我如此不友善，并且不会遵守我的任何幻想。”

‘That is because your fancies go too far,’ replied the triumphant Bonacieux, ‘and I mistrust them.’
“那是因为你的幻想太过分了，”得意洋洋的博纳希厄回答道，“而我不信任他们。”

‘Well, I will give it up, then,’ said the young woman, sighing. ‘It is well as it is; say no more about it.’
“好吧，那我就放弃了。”年轻女子叹了口气说道。 ‘就这样就好了；不要再说了。

‘At least you should tell me what I should have to do in London,’ replied Bonacieux, who remembered a little too late that Rochefort had desired him to endeavor to obtain his wife’s secrets.
“至少你应该告诉我，我在伦敦应该做什么，”博纳瑟回答道，他想起来罗什福尔曾希望他努力获取他妻子的秘密，但为时已晚。

‘It is of no use for you to know anything about it,’ said the young woman, whom an instinctive mistrust now impelled to draw back. ‘It was about one of those purchases that interest women— a purchase by which much might have been gained.’
“你知道任何事情都是没有用的，”年轻女子说道，本能的不信任现在迫使她退缩了。 “这是关于女性感兴趣的一项购买——一次可能会获得很多收益的购买。”

But the more the young woman excused herself, the more important Bonacieux thought the secret which she declined to confide to him. He resolved then to hasten immediately to the residence of the Comte de Rochefort, and tell him that the queen was seeking for a messenger to send to London.
但这位年轻女子越是为自己辩解，博纳瑟就越觉得她拒绝向他吐露的秘密越重要。他决定立即赶往罗什福尔伯爵的住所，告诉他女王正在寻找一位信使前往伦敦。

‘Pardon me for quitting you, my dear Madame Bonacieux,’ said he; ‘but, not knowing you would come to see me, I had made an engagement with a friend. I shall soon return; and if you will wait only a few minutes for me, as soon as I have concluded my business with that friend, as it is growing late, I will come back and reconduct you to the Louvre.’
“请原谅我离开了你，我亲爱的博纳瑟夫人，”他说。 “但是，我不知道你会来看我，所以我已经和一位朋友订了婚。我很快就会回来；如果你只等我几分钟，等我和那位朋友谈完事后，因为时间已经很晚了，我就会回来带你去卢浮宫。

‘Thank you, monsieur, you are not brave enough to be of any use to me whatever,’ replied Mme. Bonacieux. ‘I shall return very safely to the Louvre all alone.’
“谢谢您，先生，您没有足够的勇气对我有任何帮助，”夫人回答道。博纳西厄。 “我将独自安全地返回卢浮宫。”

‘As you please, Madame Bonacieux,’ said the ex-mercer. ‘Shall I see you again soon?’
“随您便，博纳瑟夫人，”前商人说道。 “我很快就能再见到你吗？”

‘Next week I hope my duties will afford me a little liberty, and I will take advantage of it to come and put things in order here, as they must necessarily be much deranged.’
“下周我希望我的职责能给我一点自由，我会利用它来把这里的事情整理好，因为他们一定很精神错乱。”

‘Very well; I shall expect you. You are not angry with me?’
'很好;我会期待你。你不生我的气吗？

‘Not the least in the world.’
“世界上最不重要的。”

‘Till then, then?’
“那么，到那时呢？”

‘Till then.’
'直到那时。'

Bonacieux kissed his wife’s hand, and set off at a quick pace.
博纳希厄亲吻了妻子的手，然后快步出发了。

‘Well,’ said Mme. Bonacieux, when her husband had shut the street door and she found herself alone; ‘that imbecile lacked but one thing to become a cardinalist. And I, who have answered for him to the queen—I, who have promised my poor mistress—ah, my God, my God! She will take me for one of those wretches with whom the palace swarms and who are placed about her as spies! Ah, Monsieur Bonacieux, I never did love you much, but now it is worse than ever. I hate you, and on my word you shall pay for this!’
“好吧，”夫人说。博纳西厄，当她丈夫关上临街的门时，她发现自己孤身一人； ‘那个蠢货只缺少一件事就能成为一名红衣主教。而我，已经替他向王后做出了回应——我，已经答应了我可怜的女主人——啊，我的上帝，我的上帝！她会认为我是皇宫里挤满的那些可怜虫之一，他们被安排在她身边充当间谍！啊，博纳西厄先生，我从来没有多么爱过你，但现在比以前更爱你了。我恨你，我保证你会为此付出代价！”

At the moment she spoke these words a rap on the ceiling made her raise her head, and a voice which reached her through the ceiling cried, ‘Dear Madame Bonacieux, open for me the little door on the alley, and I will come down to you.’
就在她说这句话的时候，天花板上的敲击声让她抬起头，一个声音从天花板传到她耳边，喊道：“亲爱的博纳西厄夫人，请为我打开小巷里的小门，我要下来你。'

18 LOVER AND HUSBAND
18 情人和丈夫

‘Ah, Madame,’ said d’Artagnan, entering by the door which the young woman opened for him, ‘allow me to tell you that you have a bad sort of a husband.’
“啊，夫人，”达达尼昂走进年轻女子为他打开的门时说道，“请允许我告诉您，您的丈夫很糟糕。”

‘You have, then, overheard our conversation?’ asked Mme. Bonacieux, eagerly, and looking at d’Artagnan with disquiet.
“那么，你偷听了我们的谈话吗？”夫人问道。博纳希厄热切地看着达达尼昂，不安地看着他。

‘The whole.’
'整体。'

‘But how, my God?’
“但是怎么办呢，天啊？”

‘By a mode of proceeding known to myself, and by which I likewise overheard the more animated conversation which he had with the cardinal’s police.’
“通过我所知道的方式，我同样无意中听到了他与红衣主教的警察进行的更加热烈的对话。”

‘And what did you understand by what we said?’
“我们说的话你明白了什么？”

‘A thousand things. In the first place, that, unfortunately, your husband is a simpleton and a fool; in the next place, you are in trouble, of which I am very glad, as it gives me a opportunity of placing myself at your service, and God knows I am ready to throw myself into the fire for you; finally, that the queen wants a brave, intelligent, devoted man to make a journey to London for her. I have at least two of the three qualities you stand in need of, and here I am.’
‘一千件事。首先，不幸的是，你的丈夫是个傻瓜，是个傻瓜；其次，你遇到了麻烦，我很高兴，因为这给了我一个为你服务的机会，上帝知道我已经准备好为你投身火海；最后，女王想要一个勇敢、聪明、忠诚的男人为她前往伦敦。我至少具备你所需要的三种品质中的两种，而我就在这里。

Mme. Bonacieux made no reply; but her heart beat with joy and secret hope shone in her eyes.
女士。博纳希厄没有回答。但她的心因喜悦而跳动，眼中闪烁着隐秘的希望。

‘And what guarantee will you give me,’ asked she, ‘if I consent to confide this message to you?’
“如果我同意向你透露这个消息，”她问道，“你会给我什么保证呢？”

‘My love for you. Speak! Command! What is to be done?’
'我对你的爱。说话！命令！什么是要做？'

‘My God, my God!’ murmured the young woman, ‘ought I to confide such a secret to you, monsieur? You are almost a boy.’
“我的上帝，我的上帝！”年轻女子低声说道，“先生，我应该向您透露这样的秘密吗？你几乎是个男孩了。

‘I see that you require someone to answer for me?’
“我看到你需要有人替我回答？”

‘I admit that would reassure me greatly.’
“我承认这会让我非常放心。”

‘Do you know Athos?’
“你认识阿托斯吗？”

‘No.’
'不。'

‘Porthos?’
“波尔托斯？”

‘No.’
'不。'

‘Aramis?’
“阿拉米斯？”

‘No. Who are these gentleman?’
'不。这些先生是谁？

‘Three of the king’s Musketeers. Do you know Monsieur de Treville, their captain?’
“国王的三个火枪手。你认识他们的船长德特雷维尔先生吗？

‘Oh, yes, him! I know him; not personally, but from having heard the queen speak of him more than once as a brave and loyal gentleman.’
‘哦，是的，他！我认识他;不是针对个人，而是因为女王不止一次地谈到他是一位勇敢而忠诚的绅士。”

‘You do not fear lest he should betray you to the cardinal?’
“你不担心他会把你出卖给红衣主教吗？”

‘Oh, no, certainly not!’
“哦，不，当然不是！”

‘Well, reveal your secret to him, and ask him whether, however important, however valuable, however terrible it may be, you may not confide it to me.’
“好吧，把你的秘密告诉他，然后问他，无论这个秘密多么重要、多么有价值、多么可怕，你是否都不能向我吐露。”

‘But this secret is not mine, and I cannot reveal it in this manner.’
“但这个秘密不是我的，我不能以这种方式透露。”

‘You were about to confide it to Monsieur Bonacieux,’ said d’Artagnan, with chagrin.
“你正要把这事告诉博纳希厄先生，”达达尼昂懊恼地说。

‘As one confides a letter to the hollow of a tree, to the wing of a pigeon, to the collar of a dog.’
“就像一个人向树洞、鸽子的翅膀、狗的项圈倾诉一封信一样。”

‘And yet, me—you see plainly that I love you.’
“然而，我——你清楚地看到我爱你。”

‘You say so.’
'你说的啊。'

‘I am an honorable man.’
“我是一个值得尊敬的人。”

‘You say so.’
'你说的啊。'

‘I am a gallant fellow.’
“我是一个勇敢的人。”

‘I believe it.’
'我相信这个。'

‘I am brave.’
“我很勇敢。”

‘Oh, I am sure of that!’
“哦，我确信这一点！”

‘Then, put me to the proof.’
“那么，请给我提供证据。”

Mme. Bonacieux looked at the young man, restrained for a minute by a last hesitation; but there was such an ardor in his eyes, such persuasion in his voice, that she felt herself constrained to confide in him. Besides, she found herself in circumstances where everything must be risked for the sake of everything. The queen might be as much injured by too much reticence as by too much confidence; and—let us admit it—the involuntary sentiment which she felt for her young protector decided her to speak.
女士。博纳希厄看着年轻人，由于最后的犹豫而克制住了一会儿。但他的眼神里充满了热情，声音里充满了说服力，让她觉得自己不得不向他吐露心声。此外，她发现自己处于必须为了一切而冒一切风险的境地。女王可能因为过于沉默和过于自信而受到同样的伤害。而且——让我们承认这一点——她对年轻的保护者的不自觉的情感决定了她说话。

‘Listen,’ said she; ‘I yield to your protestations, I yield to your assurances. But I swear to you, before God who hears us, that if you betray me, and my enemies pardon me, I will kill myself, while accusing you of my death.’
“听着，”她说。 “我屈服于你的抗议，我屈服于你的保证。但我在垂听我们的上帝面前向你发誓，如果你背叛我，而我的敌人原谅我，我会自杀，同时指控你的死。

‘And I—I swear to you before God, madame,’ said d’Artagnan. ‘that if I am taken while accomplishing the orders you give me, I will die sooner than do anything that may compromise anyone.’
“我——我在上帝面前向您发誓，夫人，”达达尼昂说。 “如果我在完成你给我的命令时被抓，我会比做任何可能危及任何人的事情更快地死去。”

Then the young woman confided in him the terrible secret of which chance had already communicated to him a part in front of the Samaritaine. This was their mutual declaration of love.
然后，年轻女子向他吐露了一个可怕的秘密，这个秘密已经在撒玛利亚人面前告诉了他。这是他们相互的爱情宣言。

D’Artagnan was radiant with joy and pride. This secret which he possessed, this woman whom he loved! Confidence and love made him a giant.
达达尼昂脸上洋溢着喜悦和自豪。他所拥有的这个秘密，他所爱的这个女人！自信和爱使他成为巨人。

‘I go,’ said he; ‘I go at once.’
“我去，”他说。 “我马上就去。”

‘How, you will go!’ said Mme. Bonacieux; ‘and your regiment, your captain?’
“怎么样，你走吧！”夫人说。博纳西厄； “那你的团，你的队长呢？”

‘By my soul, you had made me forget all that, dear Constance! Yes, you are right; a furlough is needful.’
“以我的灵魂发誓，你让我忘记了这一切，亲爱的康斯坦斯！是的你是对的;休假是必要的。

‘Still another obstacle,’ murmured Mme. Bonacieux, sorrowfully.
“又一个障碍，”夫人低声说道。博纳希厄，悲伤地。

‘As to that,’ cried d’Artagnan, after a moment of reflection, ‘I shall surmount it, be assured.’
“至于这一点，”达达尼昂沉思片刻后喊道，“我一定会克服它的，请放心。”

‘How so?’
'为何如此？'

‘I will go this very evening to Treville, whom I will request to ask this favor for me of his brother-in-law, Monsieur Dessessart.’
“我今天晚上就要去特雷维尔，请他帮我请求他的妹夫德塞萨特先生的帮助。”

‘But another thing.’
“但还有一件事。”

‘What?’ asked d’Artagnan, seeing that Mme. Bonacieux hesitated to continue.
“什么？”达达尼昂问道，看到了那位女士。博纳希厄犹豫着是否要继续说下去。

‘You have, perhaps, no money?’
“你也许没有钱？”

‘PERHAPS is too much,’ said d’Artagnan, smiling.
“也许太过分了，”达达尼昂微笑着说道。

‘Then,’ replied Mme. Bonacieux, opening a cupboard and taking from it the very bag which a half hour before her husband had caressed so affectionately, ‘take this bag.’
“那么，”夫人回答道。博纳希厄打开一个柜子，从里面取出半小时前她丈夫深情地爱抚过的袋子，“拿着这个袋子。”

‘The cardinal’s?’ cried d’Artagnan, breaking into a loud laugh, he having heard, as may be remembered, thanks to the broken boards, every syllable of the conversation between the mercer and his wife.
“红衣主教的？”达达尼昂大声喊道，大笑起来，他通过破碎的木板听到了布商和他妻子之间谈话的每一个音节。

‘The cardinal’s,’ replied Mme. Bonacieux. ‘You see it makes a very respectable appearance.’
“红衣主教的，”夫人回答道。博纳西厄。 “你看，它的外观非常受人尊敬。”

‘PARDIEU,’ cried d’Artagnan, ‘it will be a double amusing affair to save the queen with the cardinal’s money!’
“帕迪厄，”达达尼昂喊道，“用红衣主教的钱来拯救王后，这将是一件双重有趣的事情！”

‘You are an amiable and charming young man,’ said Mme. Bonacieux. ‘Be assured you will not find her Majesty ungrateful.’
“你是一个和蔼可亲、迷人的年轻人，”夫人说。博纳西厄。 “请放心，您不会发现女王陛下忘恩负义。”

‘Oh, I am already grandly recompensed!’ cried d’Artagnan. ‘I love you; you permit me to tell you that I do—that is already more happiness than I dared to hope.’
“哦，我已经得到了丰厚的回报！”达达尼昂喊道。 '我爱你;你允许我告诉你我愿意——这已经比我敢希望的更幸福了。

‘Silence!’ said Mme. Bonacieux, starting.
“安静！”夫人说。博纳希厄，出发。

‘What!’
'什么！'

‘Someone is talking in the street.’
“有人在街上说话。”

‘It is the voice of—‘
“这是——”的声音

‘Of my husband! Yes, I recognize it!’
‘我的丈夫！是的，我认得！

D’Artagnan ran to the door and pushed the bolt.
达达尼昂跑到门口，推开了门闩。

‘He shall not come in before I am gone,’ said he; ‘and when I am gone, you can open to him.’
“我走之前他不会进来，”他说。 “等我走了，你就可以向他敞开心扉了。”

‘But I ought to be gone, too. And the disappearance of his money; how am I to justify it if I am here?’
“但我也应该走了。他的钱也不见了；如果我在这里，我该如何证明这一点？

‘You are right; we must go out.’
'你是对的;我们必须出去。

‘Go out? How? He will see us if we go out.’
'出去？如何？如果我们出去的话，他会看到我们。”

‘Then you must come up into my room.’
“那你必须到我的房间来。”

‘Ah,’ said Mme. Bonacieux, ‘you speak that in a tone that frightens me!’
“啊，”夫人说。 Bonacieux，“你说话的语气让我害怕！”

Mme. Bonacieux pronounced these words with tears in her eyes. d’Artagnan saw those tears, and much disturbed, softened, he threw himself at her feet.
女士。博纳希厄含着泪水说出了这句话。达达尼昂看到那些眼泪，感到非常不安，软化了，他扑倒在她的脚下。

‘With me you will be as safe as in a temple; I give you my word of a gentleman.’
“和我在一起，你会像在寺庙里一样安全；我向你保证，我是一位绅士。

‘Let us go,’ said she, ‘I place full confidence in you, my friend!’
“我们走吧，”她说，“我对你充满信心，我的朋友！”

D’Artagnan drew back the bolt with precaution, and both, light as shadows, glided through the interior door into the passage, ascended the stairs as quietly as possible, and entered d’Artagnan’s chambers.
达达尼昂小心翼翼地拉开了门闩，两人轻盈如影，从内门滑进通道，尽可能安静地登上楼梯，进入达达尼昂的房间。

Once there, for greater security, the young man barricaded the door. They both approached the window, and through a slit in the shutter they saw Bonacieux talking with a man in a cloak.
到达那里后，为了更加安全，年轻人把门堵住了。他们俩走到窗户边，透过百叶窗的一条缝，他们看到博纳希厄正在和一个穿着斗篷的男人说话。

At sight of this man, d’Artagnan started, and half drawing his sword, sprang toward the door.
达达尼昂一看到这个人，吓了一跳，半拔出剑，向门口跳去。

It was the man of Meung.
正是默恩的男人。

‘What are you going to do?’ cried Mme. Bonacieux; ‘you will ruin us all!’
“你要做什么？”夫人喊道。博纳西厄； “你会毁了我们所有人！”

‘But I have sworn to kill that man!’ said d’Artagnan.
“但我发誓要杀了那个人！”达达尼昂说道。

‘Your life is devoted from this moment, and does not belong to you. In the name of the queen I forbid you to throw yourself into any peril which is foreign to that of your journey.’
‘你的生命从这一刻起就奉献了，不再属于你。以女王的名义，我禁止你陷入任何与你的旅程无关的危险。

‘And do you command nothing in your own name?’
“你不会以自己的名义发出任何命令吗？”

‘In my name,’ said Mme. Bonacieux, with great emotion, ‘in my name I beg you! But listen; they appear to be speaking of me.’
“以我的名义，”夫人说。博纳希厄激动不已，“以我的名义求求你！”但听着；他们似乎在谈论我。

D’Artagnan drew near the window, and lent his ear.
达达尼昂靠近窗户，侧耳倾听。

M. Bonacieux had opened his door, and seeing the apartment, had returned to the man in the cloak, whom he had left alone for an instant.
博纳希厄先生打开了门，看到了公寓，就回到了那个穿斗篷的人身边，他暂时没有留下他。

‘She is gone,’ said he; ‘she must have returned to the Louvre.’
“她走了，”他说。 “她肯定回到了卢浮宫。”

‘You are sure,’ replied the stranger, ‘that she did not suspect the intentions with which you went out?’
“你确定，”陌生人回答道，“她没有怀疑你出去的意图？”

‘No,’ replied Bonacieux, with a self-sufficient air, ‘she is too superficial a woman.’
“不，”博纳希厄回答道，一副自以为是的样子，“她是个太肤浅的女人。”

‘Is the young Guardsman at home?’
“年轻的卫兵在家吗？”

‘I do not think he is; as you see, his shutter is closed, and you can see no light shine through the chinks of the shutters.’
“我不认为他是；”正如你所看到的，他的百叶窗关闭了，你看不到任何光线透过百叶窗的缝隙照射进来。

‘All the same, it is well to be certain.’
“尽管如此，确定一下还是有好处的。”

‘How so?’
'为何如此？'

‘By knocking at his door. Go.’
‘敲他的门。去。'

‘I will ask his servant.’
“我去问问他的仆人。”

Bonacieux re-entered the house, passed through the same door that had afforded a passage for the two fugitives, went up to d’Artagnan’s door, and knocked.
博纳希厄重新走进屋子，穿过为两名逃犯提供通道的同一扇门，走到达达尼昂的门前，敲了敲门。

No one answered. Porthos, in order to make a greater display, had that evening borrowed Planchet. As to d’Artagnan, he took care not to give the least sign of existence.
没有人回答。波尔托斯为了表现得更好，那天晚上借了普朗切特。至于达达尼昂，他小心翼翼地不表现出丝毫存在的迹象。

The moment the hand of Bonacieux sounded on the door, the two young people felt their hearts bound within them.
博纳希厄的手在门上响起的那一刻，两个年轻人就感觉自己的心被束缚住了。

‘There is nobody within,’ said Bonacieux.
“里面没有人，”博纳希厄说。

‘Never mind. Let us return to your apartment. We shall be safer there than in the doorway.’
'没关系。让我们回到你的公寓吧。我们在那里比在门口更安全。

‘Ah, my God!’ whispered Mme. Bonacieux, ‘we shall hear no more.’
“啊，天哪！”夫人低声说道。博纳西厄，“我们不会再听到任何消息了。”

‘On the contrary,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘we shall hear better.’
“恰恰相反，”达达尼昂说，“我们会听得更清楚。”

D’Artagnan raised the three or four boards which made his chamber another ear of Dionysius, spread a carpet on the floor, went upon his knees, and made a sign to Mme. Bonacieux to stoop as he did toward the opening.
达达尼昂举起三四块木板，使他的房间成为狄奥尼修斯的另一只耳朵，在地板上铺了一块地毯，跪下来，向夫人做了个手势。博纳西厄向开口处弯下腰。

‘You are sure there is nobody there?’ said the stranger.
“你确定那里没有人吗？”陌生人问道。

‘I will answer for it,’ said Bonacieux.
“我会负责的，”博纳希厄说。

‘And you think that your wife—‘
“而你认为你的妻子——”

‘Has returned to the Louvre.’
“已经回到卢浮宫了。”

‘Without speaking to anyone but yourself?’
“除了你自己之外，不跟任何人说话？”

‘I am sure of it.’
'我确定。'

‘That is an important point, do you understand?’
“这很重要，你明白吗？”

‘Then the news I brought you is of value?’
“那我给你带来的消息有价值吗？”

‘The greatest, my dear Bonacieux; I don’t conceal this from you.’
“最伟大的，我亲爱的博纳希厄；我不会向你隐瞒这一点。

‘Then the cardinal will be pleased with me?’
“那么红衣主教会对我满意吗？”

‘I have no doubt of it.’
“我对此毫不怀疑。”

‘The great cardinal!’
“伟大的红衣主教！”

‘Are you sure, in her conversation with you, that your wife mentioned no names?’
“你确定你妻子在与你谈话时没有提到任何名字吗？”

‘I think not.’
'我想不是。'

‘She did not name Madame de Chevreuse, the Duke of Buckingham, or Madame de Vernet?’
“她没有提到白金汉公爵谢夫勒斯夫人或韦尔内夫人的名字？”

‘No; she only told me she wished to send me to London to serve the interests of an illustrious personage.’
'不;她只告诉我，她希望派我去伦敦，为一位杰出人士的利益服务。

‘The traitor!’ murmured Mme. Bonacieux.
“叛徒！”夫人低声说道。博纳西厄。

‘Silence!’ said d’Artagnan, taking her hand, which, without thinking of it, she abandoned to him.
“安静！”达达尼昂说，握住她的手，她想都没想就把手放给了他。

‘Never mind,’ continued the man in the cloak; ‘you were a fool not to have pretended to accept the mission. You would then be in present possession of the letter. The state, which is now threatened, would be safe, and you—‘
“没关系，”斗篷人继续说道。 ‘你真是个傻瓜，竟然没有假装接受任务。那么您现在就拥有了这封信。现在受到威胁的国家将会安全，而你——”

‘And I?’
'和我？'

‘Well you—the cardinal would have given you letters of nobility.’
“好吧，你——红衣主教会给你贵族封信。”

‘Did he tell you so?’
“他是这么告​​诉你的吗？”

‘Yes, I know that he meant to afford you that agreeable surprise.’
“是的，我知道他是想给你这个令人愉快的惊喜。”

‘Be satisfied,’ replied Bonacieux; ‘my wife adores me, and there is yet time.’
“满意吧，”博纳希厄回答道。 “我的妻子很崇拜我，而且还有时间。”

‘The ninny!’ murmured Mme. Bonacieux.
“笨蛋！”夫人低声说道。博纳西厄。

‘Silence!’ said d’Artagnan, pressing her hand more closely.
“安静！”达达尼昂说，把她的手握得更紧了。

‘How is there still time?’ asked the man in the cloak.
“怎么还有时间？”斗篷人问道。

‘I go to the Louvre; I ask for Mme. Bonacieux; I say that I have reflected; I renew the affair; I obtain the letter, and I run directly to the cardinal.’
“我去卢浮宫；我请求找女士。博纳西厄；我说我已经反思了；我重提这件事；我收到了这封信，然后直接跑去找红衣主教。

‘Well, go quickly! I will return soon to learn the result of your trip.’
‘嗯，快点走吧！我很快就会回来了解你的旅行结果。

The stranger went out.
陌生人出去了。

‘Infamous!’ said Mme. Bonacieux, addressing this epithet to her husband.
“臭名昭著！”夫人说。博纳西厄（Bonacieux）向她的丈夫称呼这个绰号。

‘Silence!’ said d’Artagnan, pressing her hand still more warmly.
“安静！”达达尼昂说，更加热情地握着她的手。

A terrible howling interrupted these reflections of d’Artagnan and Mme. Bonacieux. It was her husband, who had discovered the disappearance of the moneybag, and was crying ‘Thieves!’
一声可怕的嚎叫打断了达达尼昂和夫人的沉思。博纳西厄。是她的丈夫发现了钱袋的失踪，大喊“小偷！”

‘Oh, my God!’ cried Mme. Bonacieux, ‘he will rouse the whole quarter.’
“哦，天啊！”夫人叫道。博纳西厄，“他将唤醒整个季度。”

Bonacieux called a long time; but as such cries, on account of their frequency, brought nobody in the Rue des Fossoyeurs, and as lately the mercer’s house had a bad name, finding that nobody came, he went out continuing to call, his voice being heard fainter and fainter as he went in the direction of the Rue du Bac.
博纳希厄叫了很久；但由于这种叫喊声太频繁，福苏耶尔街上没有人来，而且最近布商的房子名声不好，发现没有人来，他就出去继续喊，声音越来越微弱。他朝巴克街的方向走去。

‘Now he is gone, it is your turn to get out,’ said Mme. Bonacieux. ‘Courage, my friend, but above all, prudence, and think what you owe to the queen.’
“现在他走了，该你出去了，”夫人说。博纳西厄。 “勇气，我的朋友，但最重要的是，谨慎，想想你欠女王什么。”

‘To her and to you!’ cried d’Artagnan. ‘Be satisfied, beautiful Constance. I shall become worthy of her gratitude; but shall I likewise return worthy of your love?’
“为了她，也为了你！”达达尼昂喊道。 “满意吧，美丽的康斯坦斯。我将成为值得她感激的人；但我同样值得你的爱吗？

The young woman only replied by the beautiful glow which mounted to her cheeks. A few seconds afterward d’Artagnan also went out enveloped in a large cloak, which ill-concealed the sheath of a long sword.
年轻女子的回答只是脸上泛起美丽的光芒。几秒钟后，达达尼昂也出去了，裹着一件大斗篷，里面隐藏着一把长剑的剑鞘。

Mme. Bonacieux followed him with her eyes, with that long, fond look with which he had turned the angle of the street, she fell on her knees, and clasping her hands, ‘Oh, my God,’ cried she, ‘protect the queen, protect me!’
女士。博纳希厄用她那长久而慈爱的目光追随着他，他用这种目光扭转了街道的角度，她跪倒在地，紧握双手，“哦，我的上帝，”她喊道，“保护王后，保护我！'

19 PLAN OF CAMPAIGN
19 活动计划

D’Artagnan went straight to M. de Treville’s. He had reflected that in a few minutes the cardinal would be warned by this cursed stranger, who appeared to be his agent, and he judged, with reason, he had not a moment to lose.
达达尼昂直接去了德特雷维尔先生家。他想到，几分钟后，红衣主教就会受到这个该死的陌生人的警告，这个陌生人似乎是他的代理人，他有理由判断，他不能再浪费时间了。

The heart of the young man overflowed with joy. An opportunity presented itself to him in which there would be at the same time glory to be acquired, and money to be gained; and as a far higher encouragement, it brought him into close intimacy with a woman he adored. This chance did, then, for him at once more than he would have dared to ask of Providence.
年轻人的心中充满了喜悦。一个机会出现在他面前，他可以同时获得荣耀和金钱。作为一种更高的鼓励，它使他与他所崇拜的女人建立了亲密的关系。那么，这个机会对他来说，比他敢于向上帝祈求的还要多。

M. de Treville was in his saloon with his habitual court of gentlemen. D’Artagnan, who was known as a familiar of the house, went straight to his office, and sent word that he wished to see him on something of importance.
德·特雷维尔先生正和他惯常的绅士们一起在他的沙龙里。达达尼昂是家里的熟人，他直接去了他的办公室，并传话说他希望与他会面，有一件重要的事情。

D’Artagnan had been there scarcely five minutes when M. de Treville entered. At the first glance, and by the joy which was painted on his countenance, the worthy captain plainly perceived that something new was on foot.
德·特雷维尔先生进来时，达达尼昂刚到那里还不到五分钟。乍一看，这位可敬的船长脸上洋溢着喜悦，他清楚地意识到有什么新的东西正在步行。

All the way along d’Artagnan had been consulting with himself whether he should place confidence in M. de Treville, or whether he should only ask him to give him CARTE BLANCHE for some secret affair. But M. de Treville had always been so thoroughly his friend, had always been so devoted to the king and queen, and hated the cardinal so cordially, that the young man resolved to tell him everything.
达达尼昂自始至终都在考虑是否应该对德特雷维尔先生充满信心，或者是否应该只要求他为某些秘密事务提供全权委托。但德·特雷维尔先生一直是他的挚友，一直对国王和王后忠心耿耿，而且对红衣主教怀恨在心，所以这个年轻人决定把一切都告诉他。

‘Did you ask for me, my good friend?’ said M. de Treville.
“我的好朋友，你找我吗？”德·特雷维尔先生说道。

‘Yes, monsieur,’ said d’Artagnan, lowering his voice, ‘and you will pardon me, I hope, for having disturbed you when you know the importance of my business.’
“是的，先生，”达达尼昂压低了声音说道，“当您知道我的事情有多重要时，我希望您能原谅我打扰您。”

‘Speak, then, I am all attention.’
“那么请说话，我全神贯注。”

‘It concerns nothing less,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘than the honor, perhaps the life of the queen.’
“这关系到荣誉，也许还关系到王后的生命，”达达尼昂说。

‘What did you say?’ asked M. de Treville, glancing round to see if they were surely alone, and then fixing his questioning look upon d’Artagnan.
“你说什么？”德·特雷维尔先生问，他环顾四周，看看他们是否只有他们一人，然后用询问的目光看着达达尼昂。

‘I say, monsieur, that chance has rendered me master of a secret—‘
“我说，先生，这个机会使我掌握了一个秘密——”

‘Which you will guard, I hope, young man, as your life.’
“年轻人，我希望你能像你的生命一样守护它。”

‘But which I must impart to you, monsieur, for you alone can assist me in the mission I have just received from her Majesty.’
“但我必须将这一点告诉您，先生，因为只有您才能协助我完成我刚刚从女王陛下那里接到的使命。”

‘Is this secret your own?’
“这个秘密是你自己的吗？”

‘No, monsieur; it is her Majesty’s.’
“不，先生；这是女王陛下的。

‘Are you authorized by her Majesty to communicate it to me?’
“女王陛下授权你将此事传达给我吗？”

‘No, monsieur, for, on the contrary, I am desired to preserve the profoundest mystery.’
“不，先生，因为相反，我希望保留最深奥的秘密。”

‘Why, then, are you about to betray it to me?’
“那你为什么要把它出卖给我呢？”

‘Because, as I said, without you I can do nothing; and I am afraid you will refuse me the favor I come to ask if you do not know to what end I ask it.’
‘因为，正如我所说，没有你我什么也做不了；如果你不知道我请求的目的是什么，我担心你会拒绝我请求的帮助。

‘Keep your secret, young man, and tell me what you wish.’
“保守你的秘密，年轻人，告诉我你的愿望。”

‘I wish you to obtain for me, from Monsieur Dessessart, leave of absence for fifteen days.’
“我希望德塞萨尔先生为我请假十五天。”

‘When?’
'什么时候？'

‘This very night.’
“就在今天晚上。”

‘You leave Paris?’
“你离开巴黎了吗？”

‘I am going on a mission.’
“我要去执行任务。”

‘May you tell me whither?’
“你能告诉我去哪里吗？”

‘To London.’
'去伦敦。'

‘Has anyone an interest in preventing your arrival there?’
“有人有兴趣阻止你到达那里吗？”

‘The cardinal, I believe, would give the world to prevent my success.’
“我相信，红衣主教会让全世界阻止我的成功。”

‘And you are going alone?’
“你一个人去吗？”

‘I am going alone.’
“我一个人去。”

‘In that case you will not get beyond Bondy. I tell you so, by the faith of de Treville.’
“那样的话，你就无法超越邦迪。我凭着德特雷维尔的信心告诉你。

‘How so?’
'为何如此？'

‘You will be assassinated.’
“你会被暗杀的。”

‘And I shall die in the performance of my duty.’
“我将在履行职责时死去。”

‘But your mission will not be accomplished.’
“但是你的使命不会完成。”

‘That is true,’ replied d’Artagnan.
“确实如此，”达达尼昂回答道。

‘Believe me,’ continued Treville, ‘in enterprises of this kind, in order that one may arrive, four must set out.’
“相信我，”特雷维尔继续说道，“在这种企业中，为了让一个人到达，必须有四个人出发。”

‘Ah, you are right, monsieur,’ said d’Artagnan; ‘but you know Athos, Porthos, and Aramis, and you know if I can dispose of them.’
“啊，您说得对，先生，”达达尼昂说。 “但你认识阿托斯、波托斯和阿拉米斯，你知道我是否可以处理掉他们。”

‘Without confiding to them the secret which I am not willing to know?’
“不向他们吐露我不愿意知道的秘密吗？”

‘We are sworn, once for all, to implicit confidence and devotedness against all proof. Besides, you can tell them that you have full confidence in me, and they will not be more incredulous than you.’
“我们一劳永逸地宣誓，无论证据如何，我们都会表现出绝对的信心和奉献精神。而且，你可以告诉他们，你对我有充分的信心，他们不会比你更怀疑的。”

‘I can send to each of them leave of absence for fifteen days, that is all—to Athos, whose wound still makes him suffer, to go to the waters of Forges; to Porthos and Aramis to accompany their friend, whom they are not willing to abandon in such a painful condition. Sending their leave of absence will be proof enough that I authorize their journey.’
“我可以给他们每个人请假十五天，仅此而已——让阿多斯去福尔吉斯的水域，他的伤口仍然让他痛苦不已；波尔托斯和阿拉米斯陪伴他们的朋友，他们不愿意在如此痛苦的情况下抛弃他。向他们请假就足以证明我批准他们的旅行。

‘Thanks, monsieur. You are a hundred times too good.’
“谢谢，先生。你太优秀了一百倍。

‘Begone, then, find them instantly, and let all be done tonight! Ha! But first write your request to Dessessart. Perhaps you had a spy at your heels; and your visit, if it should ever be known to the cardinal, will thus seem legitimate.’
‘那么，走吧，立即找到他们，今晚就让一切都完成！哈！但请先将您的请求写给 Dessessart。也许你身后有间谍；如果红衣主教知道的话，你的来访就会显得合法。

D’Artagnan drew up his request, and M. de Treville, on receiving it, assured him that by two o’clock in the morning the four leaves of absence should be at the respective domiciles of the travelers.
达达尼昂起草了他的请求，德特雷维尔先生收到请求后，向他保证，到凌晨两点，四次请假应该到达旅客各自的住所。

‘Have the goodness to send mine to Athos’s residence. I should dread some disagreeable encounter if I were to go home.’
“请您将我的孩子送到阿多斯的住处。如果我回家的话，我会害怕遇到一些不愉快的遭遇。

‘Be easy. Adieu, and a prosperous voyage. A PROPOS,’ said M. de Treville, calling him back.
'放轻松。再见，祝您旅途顺利。一个提案，”德·特雷维尔先生把他叫了回来，说道。

D’Artagnan returned.
达达尼昂回来了。

‘Have you any money?’
“你有钱吗？”

D’Artagnan tapped the bag he had in his pocket.
达达尼昂敲了敲口袋里的袋子。

‘Enough?’ asked M. de Treville.
“够了吗？”德·特雷维尔先生问道。

‘Three hundred pistoles.’
“三百手枪。”

‘Oh, plenty! That would carry you to the end of the world. Begone, then!’
‘哦，够了！那会带你到世界的尽头。那么走开吧！

D’Artagnan saluted M. de Treville, who held out his hand to him; d’Artagnan pressed it with a respect mixed with gratitude. Since his first arrival at Paris, he had had constant occasion to honor this excellent man, whom he had always found worthy, loyal, and great.
达达尼昂向德特雷维尔先生敬礼，德特雷维尔先生向他伸出了手。达达尼昂带着尊敬和感激之情说道。自从他第一次到达巴黎以来，他一直有机会向这位优秀的人致敬，他一直认为他是值得的、忠诚的和伟大的。

His first visit was to Aramis, at whose residence he had not been since the famous evening on which he had followed Mme. Bonacieux. Still further, he had seldom seen the young Musketeer; but every time he had seen him, he had remarked a deep sadness imprinted on his countenance.
他的第一次访问是阿拉米斯，自从他跟随夫人的那个著名的夜晚以来，他就没有去过阿拉米斯的住所。博纳西厄。更何况，他很少见到年轻的火枪手。但每次见到他，他的脸上都写满了深深的悲伤。

This evening, especially, Aramis was melancholy and thoughtful. d’Artagnan asked some questions about this prolonged melancholy. Aramis pleaded as his excuse a commentary upon the eighteenth chapter of St. Augustine, which he was forced to write in Latin for the following week, and which preoccupied him a good deal.
尤其是这个晚上，阿拉米斯忧郁而沉思。达达尼昂对这种长期的忧郁提出了一些问题。阿拉米斯以对《圣奥古斯丁》第十八章的评论为借口，他被迫在接下来的一周用拉丁文写这本书，这让他全神贯注。

After the two friends had been chatting a few moments, a servant from M. de Treville entered, bringing a sealed packet.
两个朋友聊了一会儿之后，德·特雷维尔先生的仆人进来了，带来了一个密封的包裹。

‘What is that?’ asked Aramis.
“那是什么？”阿拉米斯问道。

‘The leave of absence Monsieur has asked for,’ replied the lackey.
“先生请假了。”仆人回答道。

‘For me! I have asked for no leave of absence.’
'为我！我已经要求不要请假了。

‘Hold your tongue and take it!’ said d’Artagnan. ‘And you, my friend, there is a demipistole for your trouble; you will tell Monsieur de Treville that Monsieur Aramis is very much obliged to him. Go.’
“管住你的舌头，接受它！”达达尼昂说。 “而你，我的朋友，有一个半皮斯托尔可以解决你的麻烦；你会告诉特雷维尔先生，阿拉米斯先生非常感激他。去。'

The lackey bowed to the ground and departed.
奴才跪倒在地，转身离去。

‘What does all this mean?’ asked Aramis.
“这一切意味着什么？”阿拉米斯问道。

‘Pack up all you want for a journey of a fortnight, and follow me.’
“收拾好两周旅行所需的一切，跟我来。”

‘But I cannot leave Paris just now without knowing—‘
“但我现在不能离开巴黎而不知道——”

Aramis stopped.
阿拉米斯停了下来。

‘What is become of her? I suppose you mean—‘ continued d’Artagnan.
‘她怎么样了？我想你的意思是——”达达尼昂继续说道。

‘Become of whom?’ replied Aramis.
“成为谁的？”阿拉米斯回答。

‘The woman who was here—the woman with the embroidered handkerchief.’
“就是在这里的那个女人——那个带着绣花手帕的女人。”

‘Who told you there was a woman here?’ replied Aramis, becoming as pale as death.
“谁告诉你这里有一个女人？”阿拉米斯回答道，脸色变得苍白得像死人一样。

‘I saw her.’
'我看见她了。'

‘And you know who she is?’
“你知道她是谁吗？”

‘I believe I can guess, at least.’
“我相信我至少能猜到。”

‘Listen!’ said Aramis. ‘Since you appear to know so many things, can you tell me what is become of that woman?’
“听着！”阿拉米斯说。 “看来你知道的事情很多，能告诉我那个女人怎么样了吗？”

‘I presume that she has returned to Tours.’
“我猜她已经回到图尔了。”

‘To Tours? Yes, that may be. You evidently know her. But why did she return to Tours without telling me anything?’
“去图尔？是的，可能是这样。显然你认识她。但为什么她什么也没告诉我就回到了图尔呢？

‘Because she was in fear of being arrested.’
“因为她害怕被捕。”

‘Why has she not written to me, then?’
“那她为什么不给我写信呢？”

‘Because she was afraid of compromising you.’
“因为她害怕连累你。”

‘d’Artagnan, you restore me to life!’ cried Aramis. ‘I fancied myself despised, betrayed. I was so delighted to see her again! I could not have believed she would risk her liberty for me, and yet for what other cause could she have returned to Paris?’
“达达尼昂，你让我复活了！”阿拉米斯喊道。 “我想象自己被鄙视、被背叛。我很高兴再次见到她！我简直不敢相信她会为了我而冒着自由的危险，但她还能因为什么其他原因回到巴黎呢？

‘For the cause which today takes us to England.’
“为了今天我们前往英国的事业。”

‘And what is this cause?’ demanded Aramis.
“这是什么原因？”阿拉米斯问道。

‘Oh, you’ll know it someday, Aramis; but at present I must imitate the discretion of ‘the doctor’s niece.’’
“哦，有一天你会知道的，阿拉米斯；但现在我必须效仿‘医生的侄女’的判断力。”

Aramis smiled, as he remembered the tale he had told his friends on a certain evening. ‘Well, then, since she has left Paris, and you are sure of it, d’Artagnan, nothing prevents me, and I am ready to follow you. You say we are going—‘
当阿拉米斯想起某个晚上给朋友们讲的故事时，他笑了。 “那么，既然她已经离开了巴黎，而且你也确信这一点，达达尼昂，没有什么可以阻止我，我准备跟随你。你说我们要去——”

‘To see Athos now, and if you will come thither, I beg you to make haste, for we have lost much time already. A PROPOS, inform Bazin.’
“现在就去见阿多斯，如果你想去那里，我请求你快点，因为我们已经浪费了很多时间。一个提案，通知巴赞。

‘Will Bazin go with us?’ asked Aramis.
“巴赞会和我们一起去吗？”阿拉米斯问。

‘Perhaps so. At all events, it is best that he should follow us to Athos’s.’
'也许是这样。无论如何，他最好跟着我们去阿多斯家。”

Aramis called Bazin, and, after having ordered him to join them at Athos’s residence, said ‘Let us go then,’ at the same time taking his cloak, sword, and three pistols, opening uselessly two or three drawers to see if he could not find stray coin. When well assured this search was superfluous, he followed d’Artagnan, wondering to himself how this young Guardsman should know so well who the lady was to whom he had given hospitality, and that he should know better than himself what had become of her.
阿拉米斯给巴赞打电话，命令他到阿托斯的住处与他们会合后，说道：“那我们走吧。”同时拿走了他的斗篷、剑和三把手枪，无用地打开了两三个抽屉，看看他是否可以没有找到流浪硬币。当他确信这次搜查是多余的时候，他跟着达达尼昂，心想这位年轻的卫兵怎么会如此清楚地知道他所招待的那位女士是谁，而且他应该比他自己更清楚她发生了什么事。

Only as they went out Aramis placed his hand upon the arm of d’Artagnan, and looking at him earnestly, ‘You have not spoken of this lady?’ said he.
当他们出去时，阿拉米斯把手放在达达尼昂的手臂上，认真地看着他，“你没有谈到过这位女士吗？”他说。

‘To nobody in the world.’
“对世界上任何人来说。”

‘Not even to Athos or Porthos?’
“连阿托斯或波托斯也不行吗？”

‘I have not breathed a syllable to them.’
“我没有对他们说过一个音节。”

‘Good enough!’
'够好了！'

Tranquil on this important point, Aramis continued his way with d’Artagnan, and both soon arrived at Athos’s dwelling. They found him holding his leave of absence in one hand, and M. de Treville’s note in the other.
阿拉米斯在这一重要时刻保持平静，继续与达达尼昂同行，两人很快就到达了阿托斯的住所。他们发现他一手拿着请假条，另一只手拿着德特雷维尔先生的便条。

‘Can you explain to me what signify this leave of absence and this letter, which I have just received?’ said the astonished Athos.
“你能向我解释一下我刚刚收到的这次请假和这封信意味着什么吗？”阿托斯惊讶地说。

My dear Athos,
我亲爱的阿托斯，

I wish, as your health absolutely requires it, that you should rest for a fortnight. Go, then, and take the waters of Forges, or any that may be more agreeable to you, and recuperate yourself as quickly as possible.
由于您的健康绝对需要，我希望您休息两周。那么，去福尔吉斯的水，或者任何你可能更喜欢的地方，尽快恢复体力。

Yours affectionate
你的深情

de Treville
德特雷维尔

‘Well, this leave of absence and that letter mean that you must follow me, Athos.’
“好吧，这次请假和那封信意味着你必须跟随我，阿托斯。”

‘To the waters of Forges?’
“去福吉斯水域？”

‘There or elsewhere.’
“在那里或其他地方。”

‘In the king’s service?’
“为国王服务？”

‘Either the king’s or the queen’s. Are we not their Majesties’ servants?’
“要么是国王的，要么是王后的。”我们不是陛下的仆人吗？

At that moment Porthos entered. ‘PARDIEU!’ said he, ‘here is a strange thing! Since when, I wonder, in the Musketeers, did they grant men leave of absence without their asking for it?’
就在这时，波托斯走了进来。 “帕迪厄！”他说，“这是一件奇怪的事情！我想知道，从什么时候开始，在《火枪手》中，他们允许男人在没有提出要求的情况下请假？

‘Since,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘they have friends who ask it for them.’
“从那时起，”达达尼昂说道，“他们有朋友向他们索要。”

‘Ah, ah!’ said Porthos, ‘it appears there’s something fresh here.’
“啊啊！”波托斯说道，“看来这里有什么新鲜的东西。”

‘Yes, we are going—‘ said Aramis.
“是的，我们要去——”阿拉米斯说。

‘To what country?’ demanded Porthos.
“去哪个国家？”波托斯问道。

‘My faith! I don’t know much about it,’ said Athos. ‘Ask d’Artagnan.’
‘我的信仰！我对此了解不多，”阿托斯说。 “问问达达尼昂。”

‘To London, gentlemen,’ said d’Artagnan.
“去伦敦，先生们，”达达尼昂说。

‘To London!’ cried Porthos; ‘and what the devil are we going to do in London?’
“去伦敦！”波尔托斯喊道。 “那我们到底要去伦敦做什么呢？”

‘That is what I am not at liberty to tell you, gentlemen; you must trust to me.’
“先生们，这就是我不能随意告诉你们的；你必须相信我。

‘But in order to go to London,’ added Porthos, ‘money is needed, and I have none.’
“但是为了去伦敦，”波托斯补充道，“需要钱，但我没有。”

‘Nor I,’ said Aramis.
“我也没有，”阿拉米斯说。

‘Nor I,’ said Athos.
“我也没有，”阿托斯说。

‘I have,’ replied d’Artagnan, pulling out his treasure from his pocket, and placing it on the table. ‘There are in this bag three hundred pistoles. Let each take seventy-five; that is enough to take us to London and back. Besides, make yourselves easy; we shall not all arrive at London.’
“我有，”达达尼昂回答道，从口袋里掏出他的财宝，放在桌子上。 “这个袋子里有三百皮斯托尔。让每人拿七十五；这足以带我们往返伦敦。另外，让自己轻松点；我们不会全部到达伦敦。

‘Why so?’
'为什么这样？'

‘Because, in all probability, some one of us will be left on the road.’
“因为很可能我们中的某个人会被留在路上。”

‘Is this, then, a campaign upon which we are now entering?’
“那么，这就是我们现在正在进行的一场战役吗？”

‘One of a most dangerous kind, I give you notice.’
“这是最危险的一种，我要通知你。”

‘Ah! But if we do risk being killed,’ said Porthos, ‘at least I should like to know what for.’
'啊！但如果我们确实冒着被杀的危险，”波托斯说，“至少我想知道是因为什么。”

‘You would be all the wiser,’ said Athos.
“你会更明智的，”阿托斯说。

‘And yet,’ said Aramis, ‘I am somewhat of Porthos’s opinion.’
“然而，”阿拉米斯说，“我在某种程度上同意波托斯的观点。”

‘Is the king accustomed to give you such reasons? No. He says to you jauntily, ‘Gentlemen, there is fighting going on in Gascony or in Flanders; go and fight,’ and you go there. Why? You need give yourselves no more uneasiness about this.’
‘国王习惯给你这样的理由吗？不，他得意地对你们说：“先生们，加斯科尼或佛兰德斯正在发生战斗；去战斗吧，”然后你就去了那里。为什么？你不必再为此感到不安。

‘d’Artagnan is right,’ said Athos; ‘here are our three leaves of absence which came from Monsieur de Treville, and here are three hundred pistoles which came from I don’t know where. So let us go and get killed where we are told to go. Is life worth the trouble of so many questions? D’Artagnan, I am ready to follow you.’
“达达尼昂是对的，”阿托斯说。 “这是德特雷维尔先生给我们的三张请假信，还有三百皮斯托尔，我不知道从哪里来的。所以让我们去被告知去的地方被杀吧。人生值得被这么多问题困扰吗？达达尼昂，我已经准备好跟随你了。

‘And I also,’ said Porthos.
“我也是，”波托斯说。

‘And I also,’ said Aramis. ‘And, indeed, I am not sorry to quit Paris; I had need of distraction.’
“我也是，”阿拉米斯说。 “事实上，我并不后悔离开巴黎；我需要分散注意力。

‘Well, you will have distractions enough, gentlemen, be assured,’ said d’Artagnan.
“好吧，先生们，放心吧，你们已经有足够多的干扰了，”达达尼昂说。

‘And, now, when are we to go?’ asked Athos.
“现在，我们什么时候出发？”阿托斯问道。

‘Immediately,’ replied d’Artagnan; ‘we have not a minute to lose.’
“立刻，”达达尼昂回答道。 “我们一分钟也不能浪费。”

‘Hello, Grimaud! Planchet! Mousqueton! Bazin!’ cried the four young men, calling their lackeys, ‘clean my boots, and fetch the horses from the hotel.’
“你好，格里莫！普兰切特！穆斯克顿！巴赞！”四个年轻人喊道，叫他们的仆人，“把我的靴子擦干净，把马从旅馆牵回来。”

Each Musketeer was accustomed to leave at the general hotel, as at a barrack, his own horse and that of his lackey. Planchet, Grimaud, Mousqueton, and Bazin set off at full speed.
每个火枪手都习惯在一般旅馆离开，就像在军营一样，带着自己的马和他的仆人的马。普朗谢、格里莫、穆斯克东和巴赞全速出发。

‘Now let us lay down the plan of campaign,’ said Porthos. ‘Where do we go first?’
“现在让我们制定行动计划，”波托斯说。 “我们先去哪里？”

‘To Calais,’ said d’Artagnan; ‘that is the most direct line to London.’
“去加莱，”达达尼昂说。 “这是通往伦敦最直接的线路。”

‘Well,’ said Porthos, ‘this is my advice—‘
“好吧，”波托斯说，“这是我的建议——”

‘Speak!’
'说话！'

‘Four men traveling together would be suspected. D’Artagnan will give each of us his instructions. I will go by the way of Boulogne to clear the way; Athos will set out two hours after, by that of Amiens; Aramis will follow us by that of Noyon; as to d’Artagnan, he will go by what route he thinks is best, in Planchet’s clothes, while Planchet will follow us like d’Artagnan, in the uniform of the Guards.’
“四名男子一起旅行会被怀疑。达达尼昂会给我们每个人他的指示。我将取道布洛涅来开路；两小时后，阿多斯将在亚眠出发。阿拉米斯（Aramis）将跟随我们前往努瓦永（Noyon）。至于达达尼昂，他会穿着普朗谢的衣服走他认为最好的路线，而普朗谢会像达达尼昂一样穿着近卫军的制服跟着我们。

‘Gentlemen,’ said Athos, ‘my opinion is that it is not proper to allow lackeys to have anything to do in such an affair. A secret may, by chance, be betrayed by gentlemen; but it is almost always sold by lackeys.’
“先生们，”阿托斯说，“我的意见是，让走狗插手这样的事情是不合适的。秘密可能会因偶然而被君子泄露；但它几乎总是被走狗卖掉。”

‘Porthos’s plan appears to me to be impracticable,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘inasmuch as I am myself ignorant of what instructions I can give you. I am the bearer of a letter, that is all. I have not, and I cannot make three copies of that letter, because it is sealed. We must, then, as it appears to me, travel in company. This letter is here, in this pocket,’ and he pointed to the pocket which contained the letter. ‘If I should be killed, one of you must take it, and continue the route; if he be killed, it will be another’s turn, and so on— provided a single one arrives, that is all that is required.’
“在我看来，波托斯的计划是不切实际的，”达达尼昂说，“因为我自己不知道我能给你什么指示。我只是一封信的持有者，仅此而已。我没有，也不能复印三份那封信，因为它是密封的。那么，在我看来，我们必须结伴旅行。这封信在这里，在这个口袋里。”他指着装着这封信的口袋。 ‘如果我被杀了，你们中的一个人必须接住它，继续前行；如果他被杀了，就会轮到另一个人，以此类推——只要有一个人到达，就足够了。

‘Bravo, d’Artagnan, your opinion is mine,’ cried Athos, ‘Besides, we must be consistent; I am going to take the waters, you will accompany me. Instead of taking the waters of Forges, I go and take sea waters; I am free to do so. If anyone wishes to stop us, I will show Monsieur de Treville’s letter, and you will show your leaves of absence. If we are attacked, we will defend ourselves; if we are tried, we will stoutly maintain that we were only anxious to dip ourselves a certain number of times in the sea. They would have an easy bargain of four isolated men; whereas four men together make a troop. We will arm our four lackeys with pistols and musketoons; if they send an army out against us, we will give battle, and the survivor, as d’Artagnan says, will carry the letter.’
“太棒了，达达尼昂，你的意见就是我的，”阿托斯喊道，“此外，我们必须保持一致；我去取水，你陪我。我不去福吉斯取水，而是去取海水；我可以自由地这样做。如果有人想阻止我们，我将出示德·特雷维尔先生的信，你将出示你的请假单。如果我们受到攻击，我们就会自卫；如果我们受到攻击，我们就会自卫；如果我们尝试过，我们会坚定地认为我们只是想在海里浸几次。他们可以轻松讨价还价，得到四个孤立的人；而四个人一起组成一支队伍。我们将为我们的四个走狗配备手枪和步枪；如果他们派出一支军队来攻击我们，我们将进行战斗，而正如达达尼昂所说，幸存者将携带这封信。

‘Well said,’ cried Aramis; ‘you don’t often speak, Athos, but when you do speak, it is like St. John of the Golden Mouth. I agree to Athos’s plan. And you, Porthos?’
“说得好，”阿拉米斯喊道。 “阿多斯，你不常说话，但当你说话时，就像金口圣约翰一样。我同意阿托斯的计划。你呢，波托斯？

‘I agree to it, too,’ said Porthos, ‘if d’Artagnan approves of it. D’Artagnan, being the bearer of the letter, is naturally the head of the enterprise; let him decide, and we will execute.’
“我也同意，”波托斯说，“如果达达尼昂同意的话。”达达尼昂作为这封信的持有者，自然是企业的负责人；让他决定，我们就会执行。”

‘Well,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘I decide that we should adopt Athos’s plan, and that we set off in half an hour.’
“好吧，”达达尼昂说，“我决定采用阿托斯的计划，半小时后出发。”

‘Agreed!’ shouted the three Musketeers in chorus.
“同意！”三个火枪手齐声喊道。

Each one, stretching out his hand to the bag, took his seventyfive pistoles, and made his preparations to set out at the time appointed.
每个人都把手伸向袋子，拿起自己的七十五皮尔斯，准备在指定的时间出发。

20 THE JOURNEY
20 旅程

At two o’clock in the morning, our four adventurers left Paris by the Barriere St. Denis. As long as it was dark they remained silent; in spite of themselves they submitted to the influence of the obscurity, and apprehended ambushes on every side.
凌晨两点，我们的四位冒险家经圣但尼巴里尔离开巴黎。天一黑，他们就保持沉默。他们不由自主地屈服于黑暗的影响，并遭到四面八方的伏击。

With the first rays of day their tongues were loosened; with the sun gaiety revived. It was like the eve of a battle; the heart beat, the eyes laughed, and they felt that the life they were perhaps going to lose, was, after all, a good thing.
随着第一缕阳光的出现，他们的舌头也放松了；阳光下，欢乐又恢复了。这就像一场战斗的前夕；心脏跳动，眼睛微笑，他们觉得自己可能会失去的生命毕竟是一件好事。

Besides, the appearance of the caravan was formidable. The black horses of the Musketeers, their martial carriage, with the regimental step of these noble companions of the soldier, would have betrayed the most strict incognito. The lackeys followed, armed to the teeth.
而且，商队的面貌也是十分的强大。火枪手的黑马，他们的军车，以及这些高贵的士兵同伴的团步，即使是最严格的隐姓埋名，也会暴露无遗。走狗全副武装，紧随其后。

All went well till they arrived at Chantilly, which they reached about eight o’clock in the morning. They needed breakfast, and alighted at the door of an AUBERGE, recommended by a sign representing St. Martin giving half his cloak to a poor man. They ordered the lackeys not to unsaddle the horses, and to hold themselves in readiness to set off again immediately.
一切都很顺利，直到他们到达尚蒂伊，他们在早上八点左右到达。他们需要早餐，在一家客栈门口下了车，这家客栈的标志牌上写着圣马丁把他的一半斗篷送给了一个穷人。他们吩咐走狗不要卸下马鞍，做好立即出发的准备。

They entered the common hall, and placed themselves at table. A gentleman, who had just arrived by the route of Dammartin, was seated at the same table, and was breakfasting. He opened the conversation about rain and fine weather; the travelers replied. He drank to their good health, and the travelers returned his politeness.
他们走进公共大厅，坐在餐桌旁。一位刚从达马丁途径抵达的绅士坐在同一张桌子上，正在吃早餐。他开始谈论下雨和晴朗的天气；旅行者回答道。他为他们的健康干杯，旅行者们也回报了他的礼貌。

But at the moment Mousqueton came to announce that the horses were ready, and they were arising from table, the stranger proposed to Porthos to drink the health of the cardinal. Porthos replied that he asked no better if the stranger, in his turn, would drink the health of the king. The stranger cried that he acknowledged no other king but his Eminence. Porthos called him drunk, and the stranger drew his sword.
但当穆斯克顿过来宣布马匹已经准备好，并且他们正从餐桌上起身时，陌生人向波尔托斯提议为红衣主教的健康干杯。波尔托斯回答说，他不再要求这个陌生人是否也愿意为国王的健康干杯。陌生人哭着说，除了大人之外，他不承认任何其他国王。波尔托斯称他喝醉了，陌生人拔出了剑。

‘You have committed a piece of folly,’ said Athos, ‘but it can’t be helped; there is no drawing back. Kill the fellow, and rejoin us as soon as you can.’
“你犯了一件愚蠢的事，”阿托斯说，“但这是没有办法的；没有退路。杀了那个家伙，尽快回到我们身边。”

All three remounted their horses, and set out at a good pace, while Porthos was promising his adversary to perforate him with all the thrusts known in the fencing schools.
三个人都重新骑上马，以良好的速度出发，而波托斯则向他的对手保证，会用击剑学校已知的所有刺击刺穿他。

‘There goes one!’ cried Athos, at the end of five hundred paces.
“来了！”阿多斯在五百步结束时喊道。

‘But why did that man attack Porthos rather than any other one of us?’ asked Aramis.
“但是为什么那个人攻击波尔托斯而不是我们其他人呢？”阿拉米斯问道。

‘Because, as Porthos was talking louder than the rest of us, he took him for the chief,’ said d’Artagnan.
“因为波尔托斯说话的声音比我们其他人都大，所以他把他当成了酋长，”达达尼昂说。

‘I always said that this cadet from Gascony was a well of wisdom,’ murmured Athos; and the travelers continued their route.
“我总是说这个来自加斯科尼的学员是智慧的源泉，”阿托斯低声说道。旅行者继续他们的路线。

At Beauvais they stopped two hours, as well to breathe their horses a little as to wait for Porthos. At the end of two hours, as Porthos did not come, not any news of him, they resumed their journey.
在博韦，他们停了两个小时，让马匹喘口气，等待波尔托斯。两个小时过去了，波托斯还没有来，也没有他的任何消息，他们又继续赶路。

At a league from Beauvais, where the road was confined between two high banks, they fell in with eight or ten men who, taking advantage of the road being unpaved in this spot, appeared to be employed in digging holes and filling up the ruts with mud.
在距离博韦一里格的地方，道路被限制在两座高堤之间，他们遇到了八到十个人，他们利用这个地方未铺砌的道路，似乎正在挖坑并用车辙填满。泥。

Aramis, not liking to soil his boots with this artificial mortar, apostrophized them rather sharply. Athos wished to restrain him, but it was too late. The laborers began to jeer the travelers and by their insolence disturbed the equanimity even of the cool Athos, who urged on his horse against one of them.
阿拉米斯不喜欢这种人造迫击炮弄脏他的靴子，因此对它们进行了相当尖锐的撇号。阿托斯想要阻止他，但已经来不及了。工人们开始嘲笑旅行者，他们的无礼甚至扰乱了冷静的阿托斯的平静，他骑上马对抗其中一个人。

Then each of these men retreated as far as the ditch, from which each took a concealed musket; the result was that our seven travelers were outnumbered in weapons. Aramis received a ball which passed through his shoulder, and Mousqueton another ball which lodged in the fleshy part which prolongs the lower portion of the loins. Therefore Mousqueton alone fell from his horse, not because he was severely wounded, but not being able to see the wound, he judged it to be more serious than it really was.
然后，这些人都退到了壕沟里，每人都从那里取出了一支隐藏的步枪。结果是我们的七名旅行者在武器数量上寡不敌众。阿拉米斯收到了一个穿过他肩膀的球，而穆斯克顿收到了另一个球，该球卡在延长腰部下部的肉质部分中。所以穆斯克东一个人从马背上摔了下来，并不是因为他受了重伤，而是因为看不到伤口，所以他判断伤口比实际情况更严重。

‘It was an ambuscade!’ shouted d’Artagnan. ‘Don’t waste a charge! Forward!’
“这是一次伏击！”达达尼昂喊道。 ‘别浪费钱了！向前！'

Aramis, wounded as he was, seized the mane of his horse, which carried him on with the others. Mousqueton’s horse rejoined them, and galloped by the side of his companions.
阿拉米斯虽然受伤了，但还是抓住了马的鬃毛，马带着他和其他人继续前行。穆斯克顿的马重新加入了他们，并在他的同伴身边驰骋。

‘That will serve us for a relay,’ said Athos.
“这将为我们的接力服务提供帮助，”阿托斯说。

‘I would rather have had a hat,’ said d’Artagnan. ‘Mine was carried away by a ball. By my faith, it is very fortunate that the letter was not in it.’
“我宁愿有一顶帽子，”达达尼昂说。 “我的被一个球带走了。凭我的信心，很幸运这封信不在里面。”

‘They’ll kill poor Porthos when he comes up,’ said Aramis.
“当可怜的波尔托斯出现时，他们会杀死他，”阿拉米斯说。

‘If Porthos were on his legs, he would have rejoined us by this time,’ said Athos. ‘My opinion is that on the ground the drunken man was not intoxicated.’
“如果波托斯能站起来，他这个时候就会回到我们身边了，”阿托斯说。 “我的观点是，在地面上的醉汉并没有喝醉。”

They continued at their best speed for two hours, although the horses were so fatigued that it was to be feared they would soon refuse service.
他们以最好的速度继续了两个小时，尽管马匹已经非常疲劳，以至于人们担心它们很快就会拒绝服务。

The travelers had chosen crossroads in the hope that they might meet with less interruption; but at Crevecoeur, Aramis declared he could proceed no farther. In fact, it required all the courage which he concealed beneath his elegant form and polished manners to bear him so far. He grew more pale every minute, and they were obliged to support him on his horse. They lifted him off at the door of a cabaret, left Bazin with him, who, besides, in a skirmish was more embarrassing than useful, and set forward again in the hope of sleeping at Amiens.
旅行者们选择了十字路口，是希望他们见面时能少受干扰。但在克雷维科尔，阿拉米斯宣布他无法再继续前进。事实上，他需要在优雅的外表和优雅的举止下隐藏着所有的勇气才能坚持到现在。他的脸色每一分钟都变得更加苍白，他们不得不搀扶着他上马。他们在一家歌舞厅门口把他抬了下来，留下巴赞留在身边，而巴赞在一场小冲突中更是尴尬而不是有用，然后又出发了，希望能在亚眠过夜。

‘MORBLEU,’ said Athos, as soon as they were again in motion, ‘reduced to two masters and Grimaud and Planchet! MORBLEU! I won’t be their dupe, I will answer for it. I will neither open my mouth nor draw my sword between this and Calais. I swear by—‘
“莫布卢，”他们一重新行动起来，阿多斯说道，“只剩下两位大师了：格里莫和普朗歇！莫布鲁！我不会成为他们的骗子，我会为此负责。在这和加莱之间，我不会张嘴，也不会拔剑。我发誓——”

‘Don’t waste time in swearing,’ said d’Artagnan; ‘let us gallop, if our horses will consent.’
“别把时间浪费在咒骂上，”达达尼昂说。 “如果我们的马同意的话，让我们驰骋吧。”

And the travelers buried their rowels in their horses’ flanks, who thus vigorously stimulated recovered their energies. They arrived at Amiens at midnight, and alighted at the AUBERGE of the Golden Lily.
旅行者们把马鞍埋在马的胁腹里，这样马匹就得到了有力的刺激，恢复了体力。他们于午夜抵达亚眠，在金百合旅馆下车。

The host had the appearance of as honest a man as any on earth. He received the travelers with his candlestick in one hand and his cotton nightcap in the other. He wished to lodge the two travelers each in a charming chamber; but unfortunately these charming chambers were at the opposite extremities of the hotel. d’Artagnan and Athos refused them. The host replied that he had no other worthy of their Excellencies; but the travelers declared they would sleep in the common chamber, each on a mattress which might be thrown upon the ground. The host insisted; but the travelers were firm, and he was obliged to do as they wished.
主人看上去是一个和地球上任何人一样诚实的人。他一手拿着烛台，一手拿着棉质睡帽接待旅客。他希望将这两位旅行者分别安置在一间迷人的房间里。但不幸的是，这些迷人的房间位于酒店的两端。达达尼昂和阿托斯拒绝了他们。主人回答说，他没有其他值得尊敬的人。但旅行者们宣称他们将睡在公共房间里，每个人都睡在一张可以扔在地上的床垫上。主人坚持；但旅行者们态度坚决，他只得按照他们的意愿去做。

They had just prepared their beds and barricaded their door within, when someone knocked at the yard shutter; they demanded who was there, and recognizing the voices of their lackeys, opened the shutter. It was indeed Planchet and Grimaud.
他们刚准备好床铺，把门关在里面，就有人敲院子的百叶窗。他们询问谁在那里，并认出他们的走狗的声音，打开了百叶窗。确实是普朗歇和格里莫。

‘Grimaud can take care of the horses,’ said Planchet. ‘If you are willing, gentlemen, I will sleep across your doorway, and you will then be certain that nobody can reach you.’
“格里莫可以照顾马匹，”普兰切特说。 “先生们，如果你们愿意，我会睡在你们的门口，这样你们就可以确定没有人能接近你们了。”

‘And on what will you sleep?’ said d’Artagnan.
“那你睡什么？”达达尼昂问道。

‘Here is my bed,’ replied Planchet, producing a bundle of straw.
“这是我的床，”普兰切特一边回答，一边拿出一捆稻草。

‘Come, then,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘you are right. Mine host’s face does not please me at all; it is too gracious.’
“好吧，”达达尼昂说，“你是对的。我的主人的脸一点也不令我满意；这太仁慈了。

‘Nor me either,’ said Athos.
“我也一样，”阿托斯说。

Planchet mounted by the window and installed himself across the doorway, while Grimaud went and shut himself up in the stable, undertaking that by five o’clock in the morning he and the four horses should be ready.
普朗谢特爬上窗户，站在门口，格里莫则去把自己关在马厩里，保证在早上五点钟之前他和四匹马应该准备好。

The night was quiet enough. Toward two o’clock in the morning somebody endeavored to open the door; but as Planchet awoke in an instant and cried, ‘Who goes there?’ somebody replied that he was mistaken, and went away.
夜已经足够安静了。凌晨两点左右，有人试图开门；但当普兰切特立刻醒来并喊道：“谁去了那里？”有人回答说他弄错了，然后就走了。

At four o’clock in the morning they heard a terrible riot in the stables. Grimaud had tried to waken the stable boys, and the stable boys had beaten him. When they opened the window, they saw the poor lad lying senseless, with his head split by a blow with a pitchfork.
凌晨四点，他们听到马厩里发生了可怕的骚乱。格里莫试图叫醒马厩童，但马厩童殴打了他。当他们打开窗户时，他们看到这个可怜的小伙子已经失去知觉地躺在那里，他的头被干草叉击破了。

Planchet went down into the yard, and wished to saddle the horses; but the horses were all used up. Mousqueton’s horse which had traveled for five or six hours without a rider the day before, might have been able to pursue the journey; but by an inconceivable error the veterinary surgeon, who had been sent for, as it appeared, to bleed one of the host’s horses, had bled Mousqueton’s.
普朗切特走进院子，想要给马备鞍。但马匹都已经耗尽了。穆斯克顿的马前一天在没有骑手的情况下行驶了五六个小时，也许能够继续赶路；但由于一个令人难以置信的错误，被派去给主人的一匹马放血的兽医却给穆斯克东的马放了血。

This began to be annoying. All these successive accidents were perhaps the result of chance; but they might be the fruits of a plot. Athos and d’Artagnan went out, while Planchet was sent to inquire if there were not three horses for sale in the neighborhood. At the door stood two horses, fresh, strong, and fully equipped. These would just have suited them. He asked where their masters were, and was informed that they had passed the night in the inn, and were then settling their bill with the host.
这开始令人烦恼。所有这些接二连三的事故或许都是偶然的结果。但它们可能是阴谋的成果。阿托斯和达达尼昂出去了，而普兰歇则被派去询问附近是否有三匹马出售。门口站着两匹马，精神抖擞，力气十足，装备齐全。这些正好适合他们。他询问他们的主人在哪里，得知他们已经在客栈过夜了，正在和主人结账。

Athos went down to pay the reckoning, while d’Artagnan and Planchet stood at the street door. The host was in a lower and back room, to which Athos was requested to go.
阿多斯下去算账，达达尼昂和普朗谢则站在街门口。主人在下层和后面的房间里，阿托斯被要求去那里。

Athos entered without the least mistrust, and took out two pistoles to pay the bill. The host was alone, seated before his desk, one of the drawers of which was partly open. He took the money which Athos offered to him, and after turning and turning it over and over in his hands, suddenly cried out that it was bad, and that he would have him and his companions arrested as forgers.
阿多斯毫无疑虑地走了进来，拿出两支手枪结账。主人独自坐在办公桌前，其中一个抽屉半开着。他接过阿多斯递给他的钱，在手里翻来覆去，突然大声喊道，这钱不好，他要把他和他的同伴当作伪造者逮捕。

‘You blackguard!’ cried Athos, going toward him, ‘I’ll cut your ears off!’
“你这个恶棍！”阿托斯朝他叫道，“我要割掉你的耳朵！”

At the same instant, four men, armed to the teeth, entered by side doors, and rushed upon Athos.
与此同时，四个全副武装的人从侧门进来，冲向阿托斯。

‘I am taken!’ shouted Athos, with all the power of his lungs. ‘Go on, d’Artagnan! Spur, spur!’ and he fired two pistols.
“我被抓住了！”阿托斯用尽全身的力气喊道。 “继续吧，达达尼昂！马刺，马刺！”然后他开了两把手枪。

D’Artagnan and Planchet did not require twice bidding; they unfastened the two horses that were waiting at the door, leaped upon them, buried their spurs in their sides, and set off at full gallop.
达达尼昂和普兰切特不需要两次出价；他们解开等候在门口的两匹马，跳上马，把马刺埋在马侧，全速出发。

‘Do you know what has become of Athos?’ asked d’Artagnan of Planchet, as they galloped on.
“你知道阿托斯怎么样了吗？”他们策马前行时，普朗谢特的达达尼昂问道。

‘Ah, monsieur,’ said Planchet, ‘I saw one fall at each of his two shots, and he appeared to me, through the glass door, to be fighting with his sword with the others.’
“啊，先生，”普朗歇说，“我看到他的两枪中每一枪都有一个倒下，透过玻璃门，我看到他正在用剑与其他人战斗。”

‘Brave Athos!’ murmured d’Artagnan, ‘and to think that we are compelled to leave him; maybe the same fate awaits us two paces hence. Forward, Planchet, forward! You are a brave fellow.’
“勇敢的阿托斯！”达达尼昂低声说道，“想到我们不得不离开他；也许同样的命运在两步之外等待着我们。前进，普朗切特，前进！你是一个勇敢的人。

‘As I told you, monsieur,’ replied Planchet, ‘Picards are found out by being used. Besides, I am here in my own country, and that excites me.’
“正如我告诉过你的，先生，”普朗谢回答道，“皮卡德是通过使用而被发现的。”此外，我在自己的国家，这让我很兴奋。”

And both, with free use of the spur, arrived at St. Omer without drawing bit. At St. Omer they breathed their horses with the bridles passed under their arms for fear of accident, and ate a morsel from their hands on the stones of the street, after they departed again.
两人都免费使用了支线，没有拖拽就到达了圣奥马尔。在圣奥马尔，他们把缰绳夹在腋下，以免发生意外，让马呼吸，再次出发后，他们在街上的石头上吃了一点东西。

At a hundred paces from the gates of Calais, d’Artagnan’s horse gave out, and could not by any means be made to get up again, the blood flowing from his eyes and his nose. There still remained Planchet’s horse; but he stopped short, and could not be made to move a step.
距加来城门一百步时，达达尼昂的马已经瘫痪了，无论如何也无法再站起来，鲜血从他的眼睛和鼻子里流出来。普朗切特的马还留着；但他突然停住了，无​​法再挪动一步。

Fortunately, as we have said, they were within a hundred paces of the city; they left their two nags upon the high road, and ran toward the quay. Planchet called his master’s attention to a gentleman who had just arrived with his lackey, and only preceded them by about fifty paces. They made all speed to come up to this gentleman, who appeared to be in great haste. His boots were covered with dust, and he inquired if he could not instantly cross over to England.
幸运的是，正如我们所说，他们距离城市不到一百步；他们把两匹马留在大路上，朝码头跑去。普朗切特请他的主人注意一位刚刚带着他的仆人到达的绅士，他只比他们领先了大约五十步。他们全速向这位看上去很匆忙的绅士走去。他的靴子上沾满了灰尘，他询问是否可以立即越境去英国。

‘Nothing would be more easy,’ said the captain of a vessel ready to set sail, ‘but this morning came an order to let no one leave without express permission from the cardinal.’
“没有什么比这更容易的了，”一艘准备启航的船的船长说道，“但今天早上传来了一项命令，未经红衣主教明确许可，任何人不得离开。”

‘I have that permission,’ said the gentleman, drawing the paper from his pocket; ‘here it is.’
“我得到了许可，”这位先生说，从口袋里掏出那张纸。 '这里是。'

‘Have it examined by the governor of the port,’ said the shipmaster, ‘and give me the preference.’
“请港口总督检查一下，”船长说，“并优先考虑。”

‘Where shall I find the governor?’
“我到哪里去找州长？”

‘At his country house.’
“在他的乡间别墅。”

‘And that is situated?’
“那是在什么地方？”

‘At a quarter of a league from the city. Look, you may see it from here—at the foot of that little hill, that slated roof.’
‘距离城市四分之一里格。看，你可以从这里看到它——在那座小山脚下，那个石板屋顶。

‘Very well,’ said the gentleman. And, with his lackey, he took the road to the governor’s country house.
“很好，”绅士说。然后，他和他的跟班一起走上通往总督乡间别墅的路。

D’Artagnan and Planchet followed the gentleman at a distance of five hundred paces. Once outside the city, d’Artagnan overtook the gentleman as he was entering a little wood.
达达尼昂和普朗谢特跟在这位绅士身后，相距五百步。出了城，达达尼昂在进入一片小树林时追上了这位绅士。

‘Monsieur, you appear to be in great haste?’
“先生，您看起来很着急吗？”

‘No one can be more so, monsieur.’
“没有人比他更是如此了，先生。”

‘I am sorry for that,’ said d’Artagnan; ‘for as I am in great haste likewise, I wish to beg you to render me a service.’
“我对此感到抱歉，”达达尼昂说。 “因为我也很匆忙，所以我想请求你为我提供服务。”

‘What?’
'什么？'

‘To let me sail first.’
“让我先开船。”

‘That’s impossible,’ said the gentleman; ‘I have traveled sixty leagues in forty hours, and by tomorrow at midday I must be in London.’
“那是不可能的，”绅士说。 “我在四十小时内走了六十里格，到明天中午我一定会到达伦敦。”

‘I have performed that same distance in forty hours, and by ten o’clock in the morning I must be in London.’
“我在四十小时内完成了同样的距离，到早上十点我一定会到达伦敦。”

‘Very sorry, monsieur; but I was here first, and will not sail second.’
“非常抱歉，先生；但我先到了这里，第二次就不会启航了。”

‘I am sorry, too, monsieur; but I arrived second, and must sail first.’
“我也很抱歉，先生；但我是第二个到达的，必须先启航。”

‘The king’s service!’ said the gentleman.
“为国王效劳！”绅士说道。

‘My own service!’ said d’Artagnan.
“我自己的服务！”达达尼昂说。

‘But this is a needless quarrel you seek with me, as it seems to me.’
“但在我看来，你与我的争吵是不必要的。”

‘PARBLEU! What do you desire it to be?’
‘帕尔布鲁！你希望它是什么？

‘What do you want?’
'你想要什么？'

‘Would you like to know?’
“你想知道吗？”

‘Certainly.’
'当然。'

‘Well, then, I wish that order of which you are bearer, seeing that I have not one of my own and must have one.’
“那么，我希望得到你所持有的勋章，因为我没有自己的勋章，但必须拥有一个。”

‘You jest, I presume.’
“我想你是在开玩笑吧。”

‘I never jest.’
“我从不开玩笑。”

‘Let me pass!’
“让我过去！”

‘You shall not pass.’
'你不可以过去。'

‘My brave young man, I will blow out your brains. HOLA, Lubin, my pistols!’
“我勇敢的年轻人，我会打爆你的大脑。你好，卢宾，我的手枪！

‘Planchet,’ called out d’Artagnan, ‘take care of the lackey; I will manage the master.’
“普朗谢特，”达达尼昂喊道，“照顾好仆人；我会管理主人的。

Planchet, emboldened by the first exploit, sprang upon Lubin; and being strong and vigorous, he soon got him on the broad of his back, and placed his knee upon his breast.
普兰切特因第一次的功绩而受到鼓舞，向卢宾扑去。他身体强壮，精力充沛，很快就把他抱到了他的背上，把膝盖放在他的胸前。

‘Go on with your affair, monsieur,’ cried Planchet; ‘I have finished mine.’
“继续你的事情吧，先生，”普朗歇喊道。 “我已经完成了。”

Seeing this, the gentleman drew his sword, and sprang upon d’Artagnan; but he had too strong an adversary. In three seconds d’Artagnan had wounded him three times, exclaiming at each thrust, ‘One for Athos, one for Porthos; and one for Aramis!’
绅士见状，拔出剑，向达达尼昂扑去。但他的对手太强大了。三秒钟之内，达达尼昂就打伤了他三处，每一次刺击都大喊道：“一处是阿多斯的，一处是波尔托斯的；一处是阿多斯的，一处是波托斯的；还有一个给阿拉米斯！”

At the third hit the gentleman fell like a log. D’Artagnan believed him to be dead, or at least insensible, and went toward him for the purpose of taking the order; but the moment he extended his hand to search for it, the wounded man, who had not dropped his sword, plunged the point into d’Artagnan’s breast, crying, ‘One for you!’
当第三次击中时，这位先生像一根木头一样倒下了。达达尼昂相信他已经死了，或者至少已经失去知觉，于是朝他走去，准备接受命令。但当他伸手去寻找它时，那个没有放下剑的伤者把剑尖刺进了达达尼昂的胸口，喊道：“给你一根！”

‘And one for me—the best for last!’ cried d’Artagnan, furious, nailing him to the earth with a fourth thrust through his body.
“还有一个给我——最好的留在最后！”达达尼昂愤怒地喊道，第四次刺入他的身体，将他钉在地上。

This time the gentleman closed his eyes and fainted. D’Artagnan searched his pockets, and took from one of them the order for the passage. It was in the name of Comte de Wardes.
这一次，这位先生闭上了眼睛，晕了过去。达达尼昂搜查了他的口袋，从其中一个口袋里取出了通行令。它是以瓦尔德伯爵的名义。

Then, casting a glance on the handsome young man, who was scarcely twenty-five years of age, and whom he was leaving in his gore, deprived of sense and perhaps dead, he gave a sigh for that unaccountable destiny which leads men to destroy each other for the interests of people who are strangers to them and who often do not even know that they exist. But he was soon aroused from these reflections by Lubin, who uttered loud cries and screamed for help with all his might.
然后，他瞥了一眼英俊的年轻人，他还不到二十五岁，他被留在血泊中，失去了知觉，也许已经死了，他为那种导致人们毁灭的不负责任的命运叹了口气。为了那些对他们来说是陌生人、甚至常常不知道他们存在的人的利益而彼此合作。但他很快就被卢宾惊醒，卢宾大声呼喊，拼命呼救。

Planchet grasped him by the throat, and pressed as hard as he could. ‘Monsieur,’ said he, ‘as long as I hold him in this manner, he can’t cry, I’ll be bound; but as soon as I let go he will howl again. I know him for a Norman, and Normans are obstinate.’
普朗切特掐住他的喉咙，用尽全身力气。 “先生，”他说，“只要我这样抱着他，他就不能哭，我就被束缚了；但我一放手，他又会嚎叫。我知道他是诺曼人，诺曼人很顽固。

In fact, tightly held as he was, Lubin endeavored still to cry out.
事实上，卢宾虽然被紧紧地抱住，但仍努力想叫出声来。

‘Stay!’ said d’Artagnan; and taking out his handkerchief, he gagged him.
“留下来！”达达尼昂说。他掏出手帕堵住了他的嘴。

‘Now,’ said Planchet, ‘let us bind him to a tree.’
“现在，”普兰歇说，“我们把他绑在树上吧。”

This being properly done, they drew the Comte de Wardes close to his servant; and as night was approaching, and as the wounded man and the bound man were at some little distance within the wood, it was evident they were likely to remain there till the next day.
这样做得当后，他们就把瓦尔德伯爵拉近了他的仆人身边。随着夜幕降临，受伤的人和被绑的人在树林里有一段不远的距离，显然他们很可能会留在那里直到第二天。

‘And now,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘to the Governor’s.’
“现在，”达达尼昂说，“去总督府。”

‘But you are wounded, it seems,’ said Planchet.
“但看来你受伤了，”普朗切特说。

‘Oh, that’s nothing! Let us attend to what is more pressing first, and then we will attend to my wound; besides, it does not seem very dangerous.’
‘噢，那没什么！让我们先处理更紧急的事情，然后再处理我的伤口；而且，看起来也不是很危险。”

And they both set forward as fast as they could toward the country house of the worthy functionary.
他们两人以最快的速度向那位可敬官员的乡间别墅走去。

The Comte de Wardes was announced, and d’Artagnan was introduced.
瓦尔德伯爵被任命，达达尼昂被任命。

‘You have an order signed by the cardinal?’ said the governor.
“你有红衣主教签署的命令吗？”州长问道。

‘Yes, monsieur,’ replied d’Artagnan; ‘here it is.’
“是的，先生，”达达尼昂回答道。 '这里是。'

‘Ah, ah! It is quite regular and explicit,’ said the governor.
'啊啊！这是相当规律和明确的，”州长说。

‘Most likely,’ said d’Artagnan; ‘I am one of his most faithful servants.’
“很有可能，”达达尼昂说。 “我是他最忠实的仆人之一。”

‘It appears that his Eminence is anxious to prevent someone from crossing to England?’
“看来陛下急于阻止有人越境前往英国？”

‘Yes; a certain d’Artagnan, a Bearnese gentleman who left Paris in company with three of his friends, with the intention of going to London.’
'是的;达达尼昂是一位贝尔内斯绅士，他和三个朋友一起离开巴黎，打算去伦敦。

‘Do you know him personally?’ asked the governor.
“你认识他吗？”州长问道。

‘Whom?’
'谁？'

‘This d’Artagnan.’
“这个达达尼昂。”

‘Perfectly well.’
'非常好。'

‘Describe him to me, then.’
“那么，请向我描述一下他。”

‘Nothing more easy.’
“没有比这更容易的了。”

And d’Artagnan gave, feature for feature, a description of the Comte de Wardes.
达达尼昂逐一介绍了瓦尔德伯爵。

‘Is he accompanied?’
“他有人陪同吗？”

‘Yes; by a lackey named Lubin.’
'是的;是一个名叫卢宾的走狗所为。

‘We will keep a sharp lookout for them; and if we lay hands on them his Eminence may be assured they will be reconducted to Paris under a good escort.’
“我们将密切关注他们；如果我们把手放在他们身上，陛下可以放心，他们将在良好的护送下被送回巴黎。”

‘And by doing so, Monsieur the Governor,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘you will deserve well of the cardinal.’
“总督先生，如果你这样做了，”达达尼昂说，“你就配得上红衣主教。”

‘Shall you see him on your return, Monsieur Count?’
“伯爵先生，您回来后能见到他吗？”

‘Without a doubt.’
'毫无疑问。'

‘Tell him, I beg you, that I am his humble servant.’
“我请求你告诉他，我是他卑微的仆人。”

‘I will not fail.’
“我不会失败。”

Delighted with this assurance the governor countersigned the passport and delivered it to d’Artagnan. D’Artagnan lost no time in useless compliments. He thanked the governor, bowed, and departed. Once outside, he and Planchet set off as fast as they could; and by making a long detour avoided the wood and reentered the city by another gate.
总督对这一保证感到高兴，在护照上会签并将其交给达达尼昂。达达尼昂不失时机地进行无用的恭维。他向州长致谢，鞠躬后离开。出了门后，他和普兰切特就以最快的速度出发了。然后绕了很长一段路，避开了树林，从另一扇门重新进入了城市。

The vessel was quite ready to sail, and the captain was waiting on the wharf. ‘Well?’ said he, on perceiving d’Artagnan.
船已做好起航的准备，船长已在码头等候。 “怎么样？”他一看到达达尼昂就说道。

‘Here is my pass countersigned,’ said the latter.
“这是我会签的通行证，”后者说道。

‘And that other gentleman?
“那另一位先生呢？

‘He will not go today,’ said d’Artagnan; ‘but here, I’ll pay you for us two.’
“他今天不会去，”达达尼昂说。 “但是在这里，我会为我们两个人付钱给你。”

‘In that case let us go,’ said the shipmaster.
“既然如此，我们就走吧。”船长说道。

‘Let us go,’ repeated d’Artagnan.
“我们走吧，”达达尼昂重复道。

He leaped with Planchet into the boat, and five minutes after they were on board. It was time; for they had scarcely sailed half a league, when d’Artagnan saw a flash and heard a detonation. It was the cannon which announced the closing of the port.
五分钟后，他和普朗切特一起跳上了船。是时候了；他们刚航行了半里格，达达尼昂就看到一道闪光并听到爆炸声。这是宣布港口关闭的大炮。

He had now leisure to look to his wound. Fortunately, as d’Artagnan had thought, it was not dangerous. The point of the sword had touched a rib, and glanced along the bone. Still further, his shirt had stuck to the wound, and he had lost only a few drops of blood.
他现在有闲暇查看伤口。幸运的是，正如达达尼昂所想的那样，这并不危险。剑尖触及肋骨，顺着骨头扫过。而且，他的衬衫粘在伤口上，只流了几滴血。

D’Artagnan was worn out with fatigue. A mattress was laid upon the deck for him. He threw himself upon it, and fell asleep.
达达尼昂疲惫不堪。甲板上为他铺了一张床垫。他趴在上面，睡着了。

On the morrow, at break of day, they were still three or four leagues from the coast of England. The breeze had been so light all night, they had made but little progress. At ten o’clock the vessel cast anchor in the harbor of Dover, and at half past ten d’Artagnan placed his foot on English land, crying, ‘Here I am at last!’
第二天天一亮，他们距离英格兰海岸还有三四里格。整个晚上，微风徐徐，他们却进展甚微。十点钟，船在多佛港抛锚，十点半，达达尼昂踏上英国土地，喊道：“我终于到了！”

But that was not all; they must get to London. In England the post was well served. D’Artagnan and Planchet took each a post horse, and a postillion rode before them. In a few hours they were in the capital.
但这还不是全部。他们必须到达伦敦。在英格兰，这个职位得到了很好的履行。达达尼昂和普兰谢特各牵了一匹马，前面骑着一匹马。几个小时后，他们就到达了首都。

D’Artagnan did not know London; he did not know a word of English; but he wrote the name of Buckingham on a piece of paper, and everyone pointed out to him the way to the duke’s hotel.
达达尼昂不了解伦敦；他不懂一个英语单词；但他把白金汉的名字写在一张纸上，每个人都给他指出了去公爵酒店的路。

The duke was at Windsor hunting with the king. D’Artagnan inquired for the confidential valet of the duke, who, having accompanied him in all his voyages, spoke French perfectly well; he told him that he came from Paris on an affair of life and death, and that he must speak with his master instantly.
公爵正在温莎与国王一起打猎。达达尼昂询问了公爵的贴身男仆，他在所有航行中都陪伴着他，法语说得很好。他告诉他，他从巴黎来是为了一件生死攸关的事情，他必须立即与他的主人交谈。

The confidence with which d’Artagnan spoke convinced Patrick, which was the name of this minister of the minister. He ordered two horses to be saddled, and himself went as guide to the young Guardsman. As for Planchet, he had been lifted from his horse as stiff as a rush; the poor lad’s strength was almost exhausted. d’Artagnan seemed iron.
达达尼昂说话时的自信让帕特里克信服了，帕特里克就是这位部长中的部长的名字。他命人备上两匹马，自己则去给年轻的卫兵当向导。至于普兰切特，他被从马上抱了起来，僵硬得像灯心草一样。可怜的小伙子的体力几乎耗尽了。达达尼昂看上去就像铁一样。

On their arrival at the castle they learned that Buckingham and the king were hawking in the marshes two or three leagues away. In twenty minutes they were on the spot named. Patrick soon caught the sound of his master’s voice calling his falcon.
到达城堡后，他们得知白金汉和国王正在两三里远外的沼泽地里放鹰。二十分钟后，他们就在现场被点名了。帕特里克很快就听到了主人呼唤猎鹰的声音。

‘Whom must I announce to my Lord Duke?’ asked Patrick.
“我必须向公爵大人宣布谁？”帕特里克问。

‘The young man who one evening sought a quarrel with him on the Pont Neuf, opposite the Samaritaine.’
“有一天晚上，那个年轻人在撒玛利亚人对面的新桥上与他发生了争吵。”

‘A singular introduction!’
“一个独特的介绍！”

‘You will find that it is as good as another.’
“你会发现它和其他的一样好。”

Patrick galloped off, reached the duke, and announced to him in the terms directed that a messenger awaited him.
帕特里克策马出发，到达公爵身边，按照指示向他宣布，有一位信使正在等待他。

Buckingham at once remembered the circumstance, and suspecting that something was going on in France of which it was necessary he should be informed, he only took the time to inquire where the messenger was, and recognizing from afar the uniform of the Guards, he put his horse into a gallop, and rode straight up to d’Artagnan. Patrick discreetly kept in the background.
白金汉立即想起了当时的情况，怀疑法国正在发生一些事情，有必要通知他，他只是花时间打听信使在哪里，远远地认出了近卫军的制服，他就说：他的马疾驰起来，直奔达达尼昂而去。帕特里克小心翼翼地留在幕后。

‘No misfortune has happened to the queen?’ cried Buckingham, the instant he came up, throwing all his fear and love into the question.
“女王没有遭遇不幸吗？”白金汉一上来就喊道，将所有的恐惧和爱都投入到这个问题中。

‘I believe not; nevertheless I believe she runs some great peril from which your Grace alone can extricate her.’
“我相信不会；尽管如此，我相信她正面临着巨大的危险，只有陛下才能将她从危险中解救出来。

‘I!’ cried Buckingham. ‘What is it? I should be too happy to be of any service to her. Speak, speak!’
“我！”白金汉喊道。 '它是什么？我应该很高兴为她提供任何服务。说吧，说吧！’

‘Take this letter,’ said d’Artagnan.
“拿着这封信，”达达尼昂说。

‘This letter! From whom comes this letter?’
'这封信！这封信是谁写的？

‘From her Majesty, as I think.’
“我认为是来自女王陛下。”

‘From her Majesty!’ said Buckingham, becoming so pale that d’Artagnan feared he would faint as he broke the seal.
“来自女王陛下！”白金汉说道，他的脸色变得如此苍白，达达尼昂担心他在打开封印时会晕倒。

‘What is this rent?’ said he, showing d’Artagnan a place where it had been pierced through.
“这个租金是多少？”他一边说，一边给达达尼昂看了一个被刺穿的地方。

‘Ah,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘I did not see that; it was the sword of the Comte de Wardes which made that hole, when he gave me a good thrust in the breast.’
“啊，”达达尼昂说，“我没有看到这一点；正是瓦尔德伯爵的剑在我的胸口狠狠地刺了一下，才造成了这个洞。”

‘You are wounded?’ asked Buckingham, as he opened the letter.
“你受伤了？”白金汉打开信时问道。

‘Oh, nothing but a scratch,’ said d’Artagnan.
“噢，只不过是擦伤而已。”达达尼昂说。

‘Just heaven, what have I read?’ cried the duke. ‘Patrick, remain here, or rather join the king, wherever he may be, and tell his Majesty that I humbly beg him to excuse me, but an affair of the greatest importance recalls me to London. Come, monsieur, come!’ and both set off towards the capital at full gallop.
“天啊，我读到了什么？”公爵喊道。 “帕特里克，留在这里，或者更确切地说，加入国王，无论他在哪里，告诉国王陛下，我谦卑地请求他原谅我，但有一件最重要的事情让我想起了伦敦。来吧，先生，来吧！”两人全速向京城出发。

21 THE COUNTESS DE WINTER
21 德温特伯爵夫人

As they rode along, the duke endeavored to draw from d’Artagnan, not all that had happened, but what d’Artagnan himself knew. By adding all that he heard from the mouth of the young man to his own remembrances, he was enabled to form a pretty exact idea of a position of the seriousness of which, for the rest, the queen’s letter, short but explicit, gave him the clue. But that which astonished him most was that the cardinal, so deeply interested in preventing this young man from setting his foot in England, had not succeeded in arresting him on the road. It was then, upon the manifestation of this astonishment, that d’Artagnan related to him the precaution taken, and how, thanks to the devotion of his three friends, whom he had left scattered and bleeding on the road, he had succeeded in coming off with a single sword thrust, which had pierced the queen’s letter and for which he had repaid M. de Wardes with such terrible coin. While he was listening to this recital, delivered with the greatest simplicity, the duke looked from time to time at the young man with astonishment, as if he could not comprehend how so much prudence, courage, and devotedness could be allied with a countenance which indicated not more than twenty years.
当他们骑马前进时，公爵努力从达达尼昂那里汲取教训，不是所有发生的事情，而是达达尼昂自己所知道的事情。通过将他从年轻人口中听到的所有内容添加到自己的记忆中，他能够对这一立场的严重性形成一个相当准确的想法，而其余的，女王的信，简短而明确，给了他线索。但最让他惊讶的是，红衣主教如此热衷于阻止这个年轻人踏上英格兰，却没有成功地在路上逮捕他。正是在这个时候，达达尼昂在表现出这种惊讶之后，向他讲述了所采取的预防措施，以及由于他在路上留下的三个朋友的奉献精神，他如何成功地来到了这里。他一剑刺入，刺穿了王后的信，为此他用如此可怕的硬币偿还了德瓦尔德先生。当公爵聆听着这句极其简单的朗诵时，他时不时地惊讶地看着这个年轻人，仿佛他无法理解，他的面容是如何与如此多的谨慎、勇气和奉献精神结合在一起的。表明不超过二十年。

The horses went like the wind, and in a few minutes they were at the gates of London. D’Artagnan imagined that on arriving in town the duke would slacken his pace, but it was not so. He kept on his way at the same rate, heedless about upsetting those whom he met on the road. In fact, in crossing the city two or three accidents of this kind happened; but Buckingham did not even turn his head to see what became of those he had knocked down. d’Artagnan followed him amid cries which strongly resembled curses.
马匹疾驰如风，几分钟之内就到了伦敦城门口。达达尼昂原以为公爵到达城镇后会放慢脚步，但事实并非如此。他以同样的速度继续前行，不顾一切地打扰路上遇到的人。事实上，在穿越城市的过程中，发生过两三起这样的事故。但白金汉甚至没有转过头去看看那些被他打倒的人怎么样了。达达尼昂跟着他，大声喊叫，很像咒骂。

On entering the court of his hotel, Buckingham sprang from his horse, and without thinking what became of the animal, threw the bridle on his neck, and sprang toward the vestibule. D’Artagnan did the same, with a little more concern, however, for the noble creatures, whose merits he fully appreciated; but he had the satisfaction of seeing three or four grooms run from the kitchens and the stables, and busy themselves with the steeds.
进入旅馆的庭院后，白金汉从马背上跳下来，没有考虑这头动物的下场，就把缰绳套在脖子上，然后跳向前厅。达达尼昂也做了同样的事，不过，他对这些高贵的生物更加关心，他完全欣赏它们的优点。但他很满意地看到三四个马夫从厨房和马厩里跑出来，忙着照顾马匹。

The duke walked so fast that d’Artagnan had some trouble in keeping up with him. He passed through several apartments, of an elegance of which even the greatest nobles of France had not even an idea, and arrived at length in a bedchamber which was at once a miracle of taste and of richness. In the alcove of this chamber was a door concealed in the tapestry which the duke opened with a little gold key which he wore suspended from his neck by a chain of the same metal. With discretion d’Artagnan remained behind; but at the moment when Buckingham crossed the threshold, he turned round, and seeing the hesitation of the young man, ‘Come in!’ cried he, ‘and if you have the good fortune to be admitted to her Majesty’s presence, tell her what you have seen.’
公爵走得如此之快，达达尼昂很难跟上他。他穿过了几间连法国最伟大的贵族都无法想象的优雅公寓，最后来到了一间卧室，这间卧室既是品味又是丰富的奇迹。在这个房间的壁龛里有一扇隐藏在挂毯中的门，公爵用一把小金钥匙打开了这扇门，他把钥匙用一根同样的金属链挂在脖子上。达达尼昂谨慎地留在了后面。但当白金汉跨过门槛的那一刻，他转过身来，看到年轻人犹豫不决，“进来吧！”他喊道，“如果你有幸被允许见见女王陛下，请告诉她什么？”你已看到。'

Encouraged by this invitation, d’Artagnan followed the duke, who closed the door after them. The two found themselves in a small chapel covered with a tapestry of Persian silk worked with gold, and brilliantly lighted with a vast number of candles. Over a species of altar, and beneath a canopy of blue velvet, surmounted by white and red plumes, was a full-length portrait of Anne of Austria, so perfect in its resemblance that d’Artagnan uttered a cry of surprise on beholding it. One might believe the queen was about to speak. On the altar, and beneath the portrait, was the casket containing the diamond studs.
受到这个邀请的鼓舞，达达尼昂跟在公爵后面，公爵关上了门。两人发现自己置身于一座小教堂里，教堂里铺满了黄金制成的波斯丝绸挂毯，并被大量的蜡烛照亮。在一个祭坛上方，在蓝色天鹅绒的华盖下，上面有白色和红色的羽毛，是奥地利安妮的全身肖像，它的相似度是如此完美，以至于达达尼昂看到它时发出了一声惊讶的叫声。人们可能会相信女王即将讲话。祭坛上、肖像下方是装有钻石耳钉的棺材。

The duke approached the altar, knelt as a priest might have done before a crucifix, and opened the casket. ‘There,’ said he, drawing from the casket a large bow of blue ribbon all sparkling with diamonds, ‘there are the precious studs which I have taken an oath should be buried with me. The queen gave them to me, the queen requires them again. Her will be done, like that of God, in all things.’
公爵走近祭坛，像牧师一样跪在十字架前，然后打开棺材。 “那里，”他从棺材里抽出一个大蝴蝶结，上面镶着闪闪发光的钻石，“里面有我发誓要和我一起埋葬的珍贵耳钉。女王把它们给了我，女王又要它们了。她的旨意将在一切事情上得到实现，就像上帝的旨意一样。”

Then, he began to kiss, one after the other, those dear studs with which he was about to part. All at once he uttered a terrible cry.
然后，他开始一一亲吻那些即将与他分开的亲爱的耳钉。突然他发出一声可怕的叫喊。

‘What is the matter?’ exclaimed d’Artagnan, anxiously; ‘what has happened to you, my Lord?’
“怎么了？”达达尼昂焦急地喊道。 “陛下，您怎么了？”

‘All is lost!’ cried Buckingham, becoming as pale as a corpse; ‘two of the studs are wanting, there are only ten.’
“一切都完了！”白金汉喊道，脸色变得像死人一样苍白。 “缺少两个螺柱，现在只有十个。”

‘Can you have lost them, my Lord, or do you think they have been stolen?’
“陛下，您是否丢失了它们，或者您认为它们被偷了？”

‘They have been stolen,’ replied the duke, ‘and it is the cardinal who has dealt this blow. Hold; see! The ribbons which held them have been cut with scissors.’
“它们被偷了，”公爵回答道，“是红衣主教造成了这一打击。”抓住;看！固定它们的丝带是用剪刀剪断的。

‘If my Lord suspects they have been stolen, perhaps the person who stole them still has them in his hands.’
“如果大人怀疑它们被偷了，那么偷窃它们的人也许还掌握着它们。”

‘Wait, wait!’ said the duke. ‘The only time I have worn these studs was at a ball given by the king eight days ago at Windsor. The Comtesse de Winter, with whom I had quarreled, became reconciled to me at that ball. That reconciliation was nothing but the vengeance of a jealous woman. I have never seen her from that day. The woman is an agent of the cardinal.’
“等等，等等！”公爵说道。 “我唯一一次佩戴这些耳钉是在八天前国王在温莎举行的舞会上。曾与我争吵的德温特伯爵夫人在那次舞会上与我和解了。那次和解只不过是一个嫉妒的女人的报复。从那天起我就再也没有见过她。这位女士是红衣主教的代理人。

‘He has agents, then, throughout the world?’ cried d’Artagnan.
“这么说，他在全世界都有特工？”达达尼昂喊道。

‘Oh, yes,’ said Buckingham, grating his teeth with rage. ‘Yes, he is a terrible antagonist. But when is this ball to take place?’
“哦，是的，”白金汉愤怒地咬牙切齿地说。 “是的，他是一个可怕的对手。但是这个舞会什么时候举行呢？

‘Monday next.’
“下周一。”

‘Monday next! Still five days before us. That’s more time than we want. Patrick!’ cried the duke, opening the door of the chapel, ‘Patrick!’ His confidential valet appeared.
‘下周一！距离我们还有五天。这比我们想要的时间要多。 “帕特里克！”公爵一边喊道，一边打开教堂的门，“帕特里克！”他的贴身男仆出现了。

‘My jeweler and my secretary.’
“我的珠宝商和我的秘书。”

The valet went out with a mute promptitude which showed him accustomed to obey blindly and without reply.
男仆默默地迅速出去了，这表明他习惯于盲目服从，不做任何回应。

But although the jeweler had been mentioned first, it was the secretary who first made his appearance. This was simply because he lived in the hotel. He found Buckingham seated at a table in his bedchamber, writing orders with his own hand.
不过，虽然先提到了珠宝商，但最先登场的却是秘书。这只是因为他住在酒店。他发现白金汉坐在卧室的一张桌子旁，亲手写下命令。

‘Mr. Jackson,’ said he, ‘go instantly to the Lord Chancellor, and tell him that I charge him with the execution of these orders. I wish them to be promulgated immediately.’
'先生。杰克逊，”他说，“立即去找大法官，告诉他我责成他执行这些命令。我希望它们立即颁布。

‘But, my Lord, if the Lord Chancellor interrogates me upon the motives which may have led your Grace to adopt such an extraordinary measure, what shall I reply?’
“但是，大人，如果大法官询问我陛下采取如此非同寻常措施的动机，我该怎么回答呢？”

‘That such is my pleasure, and that I answer for my will to no man.’
“这是我的荣幸，我的意志不服从于任何人。”

‘Will that be the answer,’ replied the secretary, smiling, ‘which he must transmit to his Majesty if, by chance, his Majesty should have the curiosity to know why no vessel is to leave any of the ports of Great Britain?’
“这就是答案吗？”秘书微笑着回答，“如果国王陛下有兴趣知道为什么没有船只离开英国的任何港口，他必须将这个答案转交给国王陛下吗？”

‘You are right, Mr. Jackson,’ replied Buckingham. ‘He will say, in that case, to the king that I am determined on war, and that this measure is my first act of hostility against France.’
“你是对的，杰克逊先生，”白金汉回答道。 “在这种情况下，他会对国王说，我决心发动战争，这是我对法国的第一个敌对行动。”

The secretary bowed and retired.
秘书鞠了一躬，退了出去。

‘We are safe on that side,’ said Buckingham, turning toward d’Artagnan. ‘If the studs are not yet gone to Paris, they will not arrive till after you.’
“我们那边很安全，”白金汉转向达达尼昂说道。 “如果鞋钉还没有去巴黎，它们也会在你之后到达。”

‘How so?’
'为何如此？'

‘I have just placed an embargo on all vessels at present in his Majesty’s ports, and without particular permission, not one dare lift an anchor.’
“我刚刚对目前在国王陛下港口的所有船只实施禁运，未经特别许可，没有人敢起锚。”

D’Artagnan looked with stupefaction at a man who thus employed the unlimited power with which he was clothed by the confidence of a king in the prosecution of his intrigues. Buckingham saw by the expression of the young man’s face what was passing in his mind, and he smiled.
达达尼昂目瞪口呆地看着这个人，他如此运用了国王所拥有的无限权力来执行他的阴谋。白金汉从年轻人脸上的表情看出了他心里的想法，他笑了。

‘Yes,’ said he, ‘yes, Anne of Austria is my true queen. Upon a word from her, I would betray my country, I would betray my king, I would betray my God. She asked me not to send the Protestants of La Rochelle the assistance I promised them; I have not done so. I broke my word, it is true; but what signifies that? I obeyed my love; and have I not been richly paid for that obedience? It was to that obedience I owe her portrait.’
“是的，”他说，“是的，奥地利的安妮是我真正的王后。只要她一句话，我就会背叛我的国家，我会背叛我的国王，我会背叛我的上帝。她要求我不要向拉罗谢尔的新教徒提供我所承诺的援助；我还没有这样做。我食言了，这是事实；但这意味着什么？我服从了我的爱；难道我没有因为这种服从而得到丰厚的报酬吗？正是因为这种服从，我才得到了她的肖像。

D’Artagnan was amazed to note by what fragile and unknown threads the destinies of nations and the lives of men are suspended. He was lost in these reflections when the goldsmith entered. He was an Irishman—one of the most skillful of his craft, and who himself confessed that he gained a hundred thousand livres a year by the Duke of Buckingham.
达达尼昂惊讶地发现，国家的命运和人类的生命被如此脆弱和未知的线索所悬置。当金匠进来时，他陷入了沉思。他是爱尔兰人，是他手艺最精湛的人之一，他本人也承认他每年从白金汉公爵那里获得了十万里弗。

‘Mr. O’Reilly,’ said the duke, leading him into the chapel, ‘look at these diamond studs, and tell me what they are worth apiece.’
'先生。奥莱利，”公爵领着他走进教堂，“看看这些钻石耳钉，然后告诉我每颗的价值是多少。”

The goldsmith cast a glance at the elegant manner in which they were set, calculated, one with another, what the diamonds were worth, and without hesitation said, ‘Fifteen hundred pistoles each, my Lord.’
金匠看了一眼钻石镶嵌的优雅方式，计算了一下钻石的价值，毫不犹豫地说：“大人，每颗一千五百皮斯托尔。”

‘How many days would it require to make two studs exactly like them? You see there are two wanting.’
“制作两个一模一样的螺柱需要多少天？”你看有两个人想要。

‘Eight days, my Lord.’
“八天，陛下。”

‘I will give you three thousand pistoles apiece if I can have them by the day after tomorrow.’
“如果我后天能拿到的话，我就给你们每人三千皮斯托。”

‘My Lord, they shall be yours.’
“主啊，它们将属于您。”

‘You are a jewel of a man, Mr. O’Reilly; but that is not all. These studs cannot be trusted to anybody; it must be done in the palace.’
“你是一个男人的瑰宝，奥莱利先生；但这还不是全部。任何人都不能信任这些螺柱；这必须在宫殿里完成。

‘Impossible, my Lord! There is no one but myself can so execute them that one cannot tell the new from the old.’
‘这不可能，陛下！除了我之外，没有人能将它们执行得如此令人分不清新旧。

‘Therefore, my dear Mr. O’Reilly, you are my prisoner. And if you wish ever to leave my palace, you cannot; so make the best of it. Name to me such of your workmen as you need, and point out the tools they must bring.’
‘因此，我亲爱的奥莱利先生，你是我的囚犯。如果你想离开我的宫殿，你就不能；所以要充分利用它。请告诉我您需要的工人的名字，并指出他们必须携带的工具。

The goldsmith knew the duke. He knew all objection would be useless, and instantly determined how to act.
金匠认识公爵。他知道一切反对都是没有用的，当即决定了如何行动。

‘May I be permitted to inform my wife?’ said he.
“我可以通知我的妻子吗？”他说。

‘Oh, you may even see her if you like, my dear Mr. O’Reilly. Your captivity shall be mild, be assured; and as every inconvenience deserves its indemnification, here is, in addition to the price of the studs, an order for a thousand pistoles, to make you forget the annoyance I cause you.’
“哦，如果你愿意的话，你甚至可以见到她，我亲爱的奥莱利先生。请放心，你的囚禁将会是温和的；由于所有的不便都值得赔偿，除了耳钉的价格之外，这里还有一份一千皮斯托尔的订单，让你忘记我给你带来的烦恼。

D’Artagnan could not get over the surprise created in him by this minister, who thus open-handed, sported with men and millions.
达达尼昂无法克服这位部长给他带来的惊讶，他如此开放，与男人和数百万人一起玩耍。

As to the goldsmith, he wrote to his wife, sending her the order for the thousand pistoles, and charging her to send him, in exchange, his most skillful apprentice, an assortment of diamonds, of which he gave the names and the weight, and the necessary tools.
至于金匠，他写信给他的妻子，向她发出了一千皮斯托尔的订单，并要求她送他最熟练的学徒，作为交换，他给出了钻石的名称和重量，以及必要的工具。

Buckingham conducted the goldsmith to the chamber destined for him, and which, at the end of half an hour, was transformed into a workshop. Then he placed a sentinel at each door, with an order to admit nobody upon any pretense but his VALET DE CHAMBRE, Patrick. We need not add that the goldsmith, O’Reilly, and his assistant, were prohibited from going out under any pretext. This point, settled, the duke turned to d’Artagnan. ‘Now, my young friend,’ said he, ‘England is all our own. What do you wish for? What do you desire?’
白金汉带着金匠来到了为他准备的房间，半小时后，房间变成了一间作坊。然后他在每扇门上都安置了一名哨兵，命令除了他的贴身男仆帕特里克外，任何人都不得以任何借口进入。我们无需补充，金匠奥莱利和他的助手被禁止以任何借口外出。这一点解决了，公爵转向达达尼昂。 “现在，我年轻的朋友，”他说，“英格兰完全是我们自己的了。”你想要什么？你想要什么？

‘A bed, my Lord,’ replied d’Artagnan. ‘At present, I confess, that is the thing I stand most in need of.’
“一张床，大人，”达达尼昂回答道。 “我承认，这是我目前最需要的东西。”

Buckingham gave d’Artagnan a chamber adjoining his own. He wished to have the young man at hand—not that he at all mistrusted him, but for the sake of having someone to whom he could constantly talk of the queen.
白金汉给了达达尼昂一间与他自己的房间相邻的房间。他希望有这个年轻人在身边——并不是他完全不信任他，而是为了有一个可以经常与他谈论女王的人。

In one hour after, the ordinance was published in London that no vessel bound for France should leave port, not even the packet boat with letters. In the eyes of everybody this was a declaration of war between the two kingdoms.
一小时后，伦敦发布法令，任何开往法国的船只都不得离港，即使是载有信件的邮船也不行。在所有人看来，这是两国之间的宣战。

On the day after the morrow, by eleven o’clock, the two diamond studs were finished, and they were so completely imitated, so perfectly alike, that Buckingham could not tell the new ones from the old ones, and experts in such matters would have been deceived as he was. He immediately called d’Artagnan. ‘Here,’ said he to him, ‘are the diamond studs that you came to bring; and be my witness that I have done all that human power could do.’
第二天，到了十一点钟，两颗钻石耳钉就完成了，而且它们完全是仿制的，一模一样，白金汉都分不清新旧的了，这方面的专家也会像他一样被欺骗了。他立即打电话给达达尼昂。 “这是你带来的钻石耳钉，”他对他说。并作为我的见证人，我已经做了人力所能做的一切。

‘Be satisfied, my Lord, I will tell all that I have seen. But does your Grace mean to give me the studs without the casket?’
‘主啊，请放心，我会告诉你我所看到的一切。但陛下是否打算在不带棺材的情况下把耳钉给我呢？

‘The casket would encumber you. Besides, the casket is the more precious from being all that is left to me. You will say that I keep it.’
“棺材会妨碍你。而且，棺材是我仅存的，所以更加珍贵。你会说我保留着它。

‘I will perform your commission, word for word, my Lord.’
“我会一字不差地履行您的委托，陛下。”

‘And now,’ resumed Buckingham, looking earnestly at the young man, ‘how shall I ever acquit myself of the debt I owe you?’
“现在，”白金汉继续说道，认真地看着年轻人，“我该如何偿还欠你的债呢？”

D’Artagnan blushed up to the whites of his eyes. He saw that the duke was searching for a means of making him accept something and the idea that the blood of his friends and himself was about to be paid for with English gold was strangely repugnant to him.
达达尼昂的脸红到了眼白。他看到公爵正在寻找一种方法让他接受某些事情，而他的朋友和他自己的鲜血即将用英国黄金来偿还的想法让他感到奇怪的反感。

‘Let us understand each other, my Lord,’ replied d’Artagnan, ‘and let us make things clear beforehand in order that there may be no mistake. I am in the service of the King and Queen of France, and form part of the company of Monsieur Dessessart, who, as well as his brother-in-law, Monsieur de Treville, is particularly attached to their Majesties. What I have done, then, has been for the queen, and not at all for your Grace. And still further, it is very probable I should not have done anything of this, if it had not been to make myself agreeable to someone who is my lady, as the queen is yours.’
“大人，让我们互相了解一下，”达达尼昂回答说，“让我们事先把事情说清楚，以免出现任何错误。”我为法国国王和王后服务，是德塞萨尔先生身边的一员，德塞萨尔先生和他的妹夫德特雷维尔先生都特别依恋他们的陛下。那么，我所做的一切都是为了女王，而不是为了陛下。更进一步说，如果不是为了让我的女士满意，我很可能不会做这件事，因为女王是你的。”

‘Yes,’ said the duke, smiling, ‘and I even believe that I know that other person; it is—‘
“是的，”公爵微笑着说道，“而且我什至相信我认识那个人；这是-'

‘My Lord, I have not named her!’ interrupted the young man, warmly.
“陛下，我还没有给她起名字！”年轻人热情地打断道。

‘That is true,’ said the duke; ‘and it is to this person I am bound to discharge my debt of gratitude.’
“确实如此，”公爵说。 “我必须向这个人表达我的感激之情。”

‘You have said, my Lord; for truly, at this moment when there is question of war, I confess to you that I see nothing in your Grace but an Englishman, and consequently an enemy whom I should have much greater pleasure in meeting on the field of battle than in the park at Windsor or the corridors of the Louvre—all which, however, will not prevent me from executing to the very point my commission or from laying down my life, if there be need of it, to accomplish it; but I repeat it to your Grace, without your having personally on that account more to thank me for in this second interview than for what I did for you in the first.’
‘我的主啊，你说过；因为确实，在此时此刻，当存在战争问题时，我向您承认，我在陛下眼中除了一个英国人之外什么都没有，因此是一个敌人，我应该比在公园里更高兴在战场上见到他在温莎或卢浮宫的走廊——然而，所有这些都不会阻止我执行我的使命，或者在需要时牺牲我的生命来完成它；但我向阁下重复一遍，但您个人在第二次采访中对我的感谢并不比我在第一次采访中为您所做的更多。

‘We say, ‘Proud as a Scotsman,’’ murmured the Duke of Buckingham.
“我们说，‘作为一名苏格兰人感到自豪’，”白金汉公爵低声说道。

‘And we say, ‘Proud as a Gascon,’’ replied d’Artagnan. ‘The Gascons are the Scots of France.’
“我们说，‘像加斯科涅人一样自豪’，”达达尼昂回答道。 “加斯科涅人是法国的苏格兰人。”

D’Artagnan bowed to the duke, and was retiring.
达达尼昂向公爵鞠了一躬，然后就告退了。

‘Well, are you going away in that manner? Where, and how?’
‘那么，你就这样走开吗？在哪里，如何？

‘That’s true!’
'这是真的！'

‘Fore Gad, these Frenchmen have no consideration!’
“在加德面前，这些法国人没有考虑！”

‘I had forgotten that England was an island, and that you were the king of it.’
“我忘记了英格兰是一个岛屿，而你是它的国王。”

‘Go to the riverside, ask for the brig SUND, and give this letter to the captain; he will convey you to a little port, where certainly you are not expected, and which is ordinarily only frequented by fishermen.’
“去河边，找双桅船SUND，把这封信交给船长；他会带你到一个小港口，那里肯定不会有你，通常只有渔民经常光顾。

‘The name of that port?’
“那个港口的名字？”

‘St. Valery; but listen. When you have arrived there you will go to a mean tavern, without a name and without a sign—a mere fisherman’s hut. You cannot be mistaken; there is but one.’
'英石。瓦莱里；但听着。到达那里后，你会来到一家简陋的小酒馆，没有名字，也没有招牌——只是一个渔民的小屋。你不会弄错的；只有一个。

‘Afterward?’
'之后？'

‘You will ask for the host, and will repeat to him the word ‘Forward!’’
“你要去找主人，并向他重复‘前进！’这个词。”

‘Which means?’
'意思是？'

‘In French, EN AVANT. It is the password. He will give you a horse all saddled, and will point out to you the road you ought to take. You will find, in the same way, four relays on your route. If you will give at each of these relays your address in Paris, the four horses will follow you thither. You already know two of them, and you appeared to appreciate them like a judge. They were those we rode on; and you may rely upon me for the others not being inferior to them. These horses are equipped for the field. However proud you may be, you will not refuse to accept one of them, and to request your three companions to accept the others—that is, in order to make war against us. Besides, the end justified the means, as you Frenchmen say, does it not?’
“用法语来说，EN AVANT。这是密码。他会给你一匹备有鞍具的马，并会向你指出你应该走的路。以同样的方式，您会发现您的路线上有四个中继站。如果您在每次接力赛中都给出您在巴黎的地址，四匹马就会跟随您前往那里。你已经认识其中两个，而且你似乎像法官一样欣赏他们。他们是我们骑乘的；你可以信赖我，因为其他人并不逊色于他们。这些马匹装备精良，适合野外作战。无论你多么骄傲，你都不会拒绝接受其中的一个，并要求你的三个同伴接受其他的——也就是说，为了与我们开战。此外，正如你们法国人所说，为了目的不择手段，不是吗？

‘Yes, my Lord, I accept them,’ said d’Artagnan; ‘and if it please God, we will make a good use of your presents.’
“是的，陛下，我接受它们，”达达尼昂说。 “如果上帝高兴的话，我们会好好利用你的礼物。”

‘Well, now, your hand, young man. Perhaps we shall soon meet on the field of battle; but in the meantime we shall part good friends, I hope.’
‘好吧，现在，你的手，年轻人。也许我们很快就会在战场上相遇；但与此同时，我希望我们能成为好朋友。”

‘Yes, my Lord; but with the hope of soon becoming enemies.’
'是的我的主;但希望很快成为敌人。

‘Be satisfied; I promise you that.’
'满意;我向你保证。

‘I depend upon your word, my Lord.’
“我相信您的话，陛下。”

D’Artagnan bowed to the duke, and made his way as quickly as possible to the riverside. Opposite the Tower of London he found the vessel that had been named to him, delivered his letter to the captain, who after having it examined by the governor of the port made immediate preparations to sail.
达达尼昂向公爵鞠了一躬，然后以最快的速度向河边走去。在伦敦塔对面，他找到了那艘以他的名字命名的船只，将信交给了船长，船长在接受港口总督的检查后，立即准备起航。

Fifty vessels were waiting to set out. Passing alongside one of them, d’Artagnan fancied he perceived on board it the woman of Meung—the same whom the unknown gentleman had called Milady, and whom d’Artagnan had thought so handsome; but thanks to the current of the stream and a fair wind, his vessel passed so quickly that he had little more than a glimpse of her.
五十艘船正等待出发。达达尼昂从其中一个人旁边走过时，他觉得他在车上看到了默恩的女人——那位不知名的绅士称她为米拉迪，达达尼昂觉得她很英俊；但他觉得她很漂亮。但多亏了水流和顺风，他的船飞得很快，他只能瞥见她一眼。

The next day about nine o’clock in the morning, he landed at St. Valery. D’Artagnan went instantly in search of the inn, and easily discovered it by the riotous noise which resounded from it. War between England and France was talked of as near and certain, and the jolly sailors were having a carousal.
第二天早上九点左右，他降落在圣瓦莱里。达达尼昂立即去找客栈，随着客栈里传来的喧闹声，很容易就找到了它。英国和法国之间的战争被认为是迫在眉睫且确定无疑的，而快乐的水手们正在狂欢。

D’Artagnan made his way through the crowd, advanced toward the host, and pronounced the word ‘Forward!’ The host instantly made him a sign to follow, went out with him by a door which opened into a yard, led him to the stable, where a saddled horse awaited him, and asked him if he stood in need of anything else.
达达尼昂穿过人群，向主人走去，并喊出“前进！”主人立刻示意他跟上，和他一起从一扇通向院子的门出去，带他到了大厅。马厩里有一匹备好鞍的马正在等待着他，并询问他是否还需要什么。

‘I want to know the route I am to follow,’ said d’Artagnan.
“我想知道我要走的路线，”达达尼昂说。

‘Go from hence to Blangy, and from Blangy to Neufchatel. At Neufchatel, go to the tavern of the Golden Harrow, give the password to the landlord, and you will find, as you have here, a horse ready saddled.’
‘从这里到布朗吉，再从布朗吉到纳沙泰尔。在纳沙泰尔，前往金耙的酒馆，将密码交给房东，你会发现，就像你在这里一样，一匹马已备好鞍。

‘Have I anything to pay?’ demanded d’Artagnan.
“我需要付什么钱吗？”达达尼昂问道。

‘Everything is paid,’ replied the host, ‘and liberally. Begone, and may God guide you!’
“一切都是有偿的，”主人回答道，“而且很慷慨。”走吧，愿上帝指引你！

‘Amen!’ cried the young man, and set off at full gallop.
“阿门！”年轻人喊道，然后全速出发。

Four hours later he was in Neufchatel. He strictly followed the instructions he had received. At Neufchatel, as at St. Valery, he found a horse quite ready and awaiting him. He was about to remove the pistols from the saddle he had quit to the one he was about to fill, but he found the holsters furnished with similar pistols.
四小时后，他到达了纳沙泰尔。他严格遵守收到的指示。在纳沙泰尔，就像在圣瓦莱里一样，他发现一匹马已经准备好了，正在等待他。他正要把手枪从他已经放下的马鞍上取下来，放到他要装满的马鞍上，但他发现枪套里装有类似的手枪。

‘Your address at Paris?’
“你在巴黎的地址？”

‘Hotel of the Guards, company of Dessessart.’
“守卫旅馆，德塞萨特公司。”

‘Enough,’ replied the questioner.
“够了，”提问者回答道。

‘Which route must I take?’ demanded d’Artagnan, in his turn.
“我该走哪条路？”达达尼昂问道。

‘That of Rouen; but you will leave the city on your right. You must stop at the little village of Eccuis, in which there is but one tavern—the Shield of France. Don’t condemn it from appearances; you will find a horse in the stables quite as good as this.’
‘鲁昂的那个；但你将离开你右边的城市。您必须在埃库伊斯 (Eccuis) 小村庄停留，那里只有一家小酒馆：法国之盾 (Shield of France)。不要从表面上谴责它；你会在马厩里找到一匹和这匹马一样好的马。

‘The same password?’
“相同的密码？”

‘Exactly.’
'确切地。'

‘Adieu, master!’
“再见，主人！”

‘A good journey, gentlemen! Do you want anything?’
“旅途愉快，先生们！你想要什么吗？

D’Artagnan shook his head, and set off at full speed. At Eccuis, the same scene was repeated. He found as provident a host and a fresh horse. He left his address as he had done before, and set off again at the same pace for Pontoise. At Pontoise he changed his horse for the last time, and at nine o’clock galloped into the yard of Treville’s hotel. He had made nearly sixty leagues in little more than twelve hours.
达达尼昂摇摇头，全速出发。在埃库伊斯，同样的场景又重演了。他幸运地找到了一位主人和一匹新鲜的马。他像以前一样留下了地址，然后以同样的速度再次出发前往蓬图瓦兹。在蓬图瓦兹，他最后一次换了马，九点钟飞奔进特雷维尔旅馆的院子里。他在十二个小时多一点的时间里已经走了近六十里格。

M. de Treville received him as if he had seen him that same morning; only, when pressing his hand a little more warmly than usual, he informed him that the company of Dessessart was on duty at the Louvre, and that he might repair at once to his post.
德·特雷维尔先生接待了他，就好像当天早上就见到了他一样。只是，当他比平常更热情地握着他的手时，他告诉他，德塞萨特的同伴正在卢浮宫值班，他可以立即返回岗位。

22 THE BALLET OF LA MERLAISON
22 梅莱松芭蕾舞团

On the morrow, nothing was talked of in Paris but the ball which the aldermen of the city were to give to the king and queen, and in which their Majesties were to dance the famous La Merlaison— the favorite ballet of the king.
第二天，巴黎除了市议员为国王和王后举办的舞会外，大家都在谈论什么，舞会上，两位陛下将跳著名的《La Merlaison》——国王最喜欢的芭蕾舞剧。

Eight days had been occupied in preparations at the Hotel de Ville for this important evening. The city carpenters had erected scaffolds upon which the invited ladies were to be placed; the city grocer had ornamented the chambers with two hundred FLAMBEAUX of white wax, a piece of luxury unheard of at that period; and twenty violins were ordered, and the price for them fixed at double the usual rate, upon condition, said the report, that they should be played all night.
为了这个重要的夜晚，巴黎市政厅已经花了八天的时间进行准备。城里的木匠们搭起了脚手架，上面放着受邀的女士们。城市杂货店用两百支白蜡火炬装饰了房间，这在当时是闻所未闻的奢侈品。报告称，他们订购了二十把小提琴，价格是平时的两倍，条件是必须整夜演奏。

At ten o’clock in the morning the Sieur de la Coste, ensign in the king’s Guards, followed by two officers and several archers of that body, came to the city registrar, named Clement, and demanded of him all the keys of the rooms and offices of the hotel. These keys were given up to him instantly. Each of them had ticket attached to it, by which it might be recognized; and from that moment the Sieur de la Coste was charged with the care of all the doors and all the avenues.
上午十点，国王卫队少尉德拉科斯特爵士在两名军官和几名弓箭手的带领下，来到了名叫克莱门特的城市登记处，向他索要所有房间的钥匙。以及酒店的办公室。这些钥匙立刻就交给了他。他们每个人都附有一张票，通过这张票可以被认出来。从那时起，拉科斯特先生就担负起看管所有大门和所有大道的责任。

At eleven o’clock came in his turn Duhallier, captain of the Guards, bringing with him fifty archers, who were distributed immediately through the Hotel de Ville, at the doors assigned them.
十一点钟，近卫军队长杜哈利尔登场，他带来了五十名弓箭手，他们立即分布在市政厅的指定门口。

At three o’clock came two companies of the Guards, one French, the other Swiss. The company of French guards was composed of half of M. Duhallier’s men and half of M. Dessessart’s men.
三点钟左右，两个连的近卫军来了，一个是法国人，另一个是瑞士人。法国卫兵连由杜哈利尔先生的一半人和德塞萨特先生的一半人组成。

At six in the evening the guests began to come. As fast as they entered, they were placed in the grand saloon, on the platforms prepared for them.
晚上六点，客人陆续来了。他们一进去，就被安置在大客厅里，在为他们准备的平台上。

At nine o’clock Madame la Premiere Presidente arrived. As next to the queen, she was the most considerable personage of the fete, she was received by the city officials, and placed in a box opposite to that which the queen was to occupy.
九点钟，首任总统夫人抵达。除了女王之外，她是整个宴会中最重要的人物，她受到了城市官员的接待，并被安置在与女王所在的相对的包厢里。

At ten o’clock, the king’s collation, consisting of preserves and other delicacies, was prepared in the little room on the side of the church of St. Jean, in front of the silver buffet of the city, which was guarded by four archers.
十点钟，国王的大餐，包括蜜饯和其他美味佳肴，在圣让教堂一侧的小房间里准备好了，面前是城市的银色自助餐，由四名弓箭手把守。 。

At midnight great cries and loud acclamations were heard. It was the king, who was passing through the streets which led from the Louvre to the Hotel de Ville, and which were all illuminated with colored lanterns.
午夜时分，响起了巨大的哭声和大声的欢呼声。那是国王，他正穿过从卢浮宫到市政厅的街道，街道上都挂满了彩灯。

Immediately the aldermen, clothed in their cloth robes and preceded by six sergeants, each holding a FLAMBEAU in his hand, went to attend upon the king, whom they met on the steps, where the provost of the merchants made him the speech of welcome—a compliment to which his Majesty replied with an apology for coming so late, laying the blame upon the cardinal, who had detained him till eleven o’clock, talking of affairs of state.
市议员们立即身着布袍，前面有六名中士，每人手里都拿着一把火炬，前去侍候国王，他们在台阶上遇见了国王，商人的教务长向他致欢迎辞——国王陛下对此表示歉意，并为他来得这么晚而致歉，并将责任归咎于红衣主教，因为红衣主教把他留到了十一点钟，谈论国家事务。

His Majesty, in full dress, was accompanied by his royal Highness, M. le Comte de Soissons, by the Grand Prior, by the Duc de Longueville, by the Duc d’Euboeuf, by the Comte d’Harcourt, by the Comte de la Roche-Guyon, by M. de Liancourt, by M. de Baradas, by the Comte de Cramail, and by the Chevalier de Souveray. Everybody noticed that the king looked dull and preoccupied.
国王陛下身着盛装，由苏瓦松伯爵殿下、大修道院院长、隆格维尔公爵、尤伯夫公爵、哈考特伯爵、德·德·德伯爵陪同。 la Roche-Guyon，由 M. de Liancourt、M. de Baradas、Comte de Cramail 和 Chevalier de Souveray 创作。大家都注意到国王神色呆滞，心事重重。

A private room had been prepared for the king and another for Monsieur. In each of these closets were placed masquerade dresses. The same had been done for the queen and Madame the President. The nobles and ladies of their Majesties’ suites were to dress, two by two, in chambers prepared for the purpose. Before entering his closet the king desired to be informed the moment the cardinal arrived.
为国王准备了一间私人房间，为先生准备了另一间私人房间。每个壁橱里都放着化装舞会礼服。女王和总统夫人也做了同样的事情。国王套房的贵族和女士们必须在为此目的准备的房间里，两人一组地着装。在进入他的衣柜之前，国王希望红衣主教到达时得到通知。

Half an hour after the entrance of the king, fresh acclamations were heard; these announced the arrival of the queen. The aldermen did as they had done before, and preceded by their sergeants, advanced to receive their illustrious guest. The queen entered the great hall; and it was remarked that, like the king, she looked dull and even weary.
国王入场半小时后，又响起了新的欢呼声。这些宣告了女王的到来。市议员们像以前一样，在他们的中士的带领下，上前迎接他们的尊贵客人。女王走进大厅；有人说，她就像国王一样，看上去呆滞甚至疲倦。

At the moment she entered, the curtain of a small gallery which to that time had been closed, was drawn, and the pale face of the cardinal appeared, he being dressed as a Spanish cavalier. His eyes were fixed upon those of the queen, and a smile of terrible joy passed over his lips; the queen did not wear her diamond studs.
她一进去，当时一直关闭的小画廊的窗帘被拉开，红衣主教苍白的脸出现了，他穿着西班牙骑士的衣服。他的眼睛盯着王后的眼睛，嘴角掠过一丝可怕的喜悦的微笑。女王没有佩戴钻石耳钉。

The queen remained for a short time to receive the compliments of the city dignitaries and to reply to the salutations of the ladies. All at once the king appeared with the cardinal at one of the doors of the hall. The cardinal was speaking to him in a low voice, and the king was very pale.
女王短暂停留，接受城市政要的致意，并回复女士们的问候。突然，国王和红衣主教出现在大厅的一扇门前。红衣主教正在低声对他说话，国王脸色苍白。

The king made his way through the crowd without a mask, and the ribbons of his doublet scarcely tied. He went straight to the queen, and in an altered voice said, ‘Why, madame, have you not thought proper to wear your diamond studs, when you know it would give me so much gratification?’
国王穿过人群，没有戴面具，上衣的丝带也几乎没有系上。他径直走向王后，用一种不同的声音说道：“为什么，夫人，当您知道戴上钻石耳钉会给我带来如此多的满足时，您为什么不认为戴上钻石耳钉是合适的呢？”

The queen cast a glance around her, and saw the cardinal behind, with a diabolical smile on his countenance.
王后环顾四周，看到了身后的红衣主教，脸上挂着恶魔般的笑容。

‘Sire,’ replied the queen, with a faltering voice, ‘because, in the midst of such a crowd as this, I feared some accident might happen to them.’
“陛下，”王后用结结巴巴的声音回答道，“因为在这么多人中间，我担心他们会发生什么意外。”

‘And you were wrong, madame. If I made you that present it was that you might adorn yourself therewith. I tell you that you were wrong.’
“你错了，夫人。如果我给你送了那件礼物，那是为了让你可以用它来装饰自己。我告诉你，你错了。

The voice of the king was tremulous with anger. Everybody looked and listened with astonishment, comprehending nothing of what passed.
国王的声音因愤怒而颤抖。每个人都惊讶地看着、听着，完全不明白发生了什么。

‘Sire,’ said the queen, ‘I can send for them to the Louvre, where they are, and thus your Majesty’s wishes will be complied with.’
“陛下，”王后说道，“我可以派人去卢浮宫接他们，他们就在那里，这样就可以满足陛下的愿望了。”

‘Do so, madame, do so, and that at once; for within an hour the ballet will commence.’
“就这样吧，夫人，就这样，立刻就这样；一小时内芭蕾舞剧就要开始了。

The queen bent in token of submission, and followed the ladies who were to conduct her to her room. On his part the king returned to his apartment.
王后弯下腰，表示服从，跟着那些要带她到自己房间的女士们。国王则回到了他的寓所。

There was a moment of trouble and confusion in the assembly. Everybody had remarked that something had passed between the king and queen; but both of them had spoken so low that everybody, out of respect, withdrew several steps, so that nobody had heard anything. The violins began to sound with all their might, but nobody listened to them.
集会中出现了一时的麻烦和混乱。每个人都说国王和王后之间发生了一些事情。但两人说话声音都很小，众人出于尊重，都退了好几步，没有人听见什么声音。小提琴开始用力演奏，但没有人听。

The king came out first from his room. He was in a most elegant hunting costume; and Monsieur and the other nobles were dressed like him. This was the costume that best became the king. So dressed, he really appeared the first gentleman of his kingdom.
国王首先从他的房间里出来。他穿着一套最优雅的狩猎服装；先生和其他贵族也穿得和他一样。这是最适合成为国王的服装。如此打扮，他确实是他王国的第一绅士。

The cardinal drew near to the king, and placed in his hand a small casket. The king opened it, and found in it two diamond studs.
红衣主教走近国王，把一个小棺材放在他手里。国王打开它，发现里面有两颗钻石耳钉。

‘What does this mean?’ demanded he of the cardinal.
“这是什么意思？”他向红衣主教问道。

‘Nothing,’ replied the latter; ‘only, if the queen has the studs, which I very much doubt, count them, sire, and if you only find ten, ask her Majesty who can have stolen from her the two studs that are here.’
“没什么，”后者回答道。 “只是，如果女王有耳钉，我非常怀疑，请数一数，陛下，如果您只找到十个，请询问女王陛下，谁能从她那里偷走这里的两颗耳钉。”

The king looked at the cardinal as if to interrogate him; but he had not time to address any question to him—a cry of admiration burst from every mouth. If the king appeared to be the first gentleman of his kingdom, the queen was without doubt the most beautiful woman in France.
国王看着红衣主教，仿佛在审问他。但他没有时间向他提出任何问题——每个人嘴里都发出钦佩的叫声。如果说国王是他王国的第一位绅士，那么王后无疑是法国最美丽的女人。

It is true that the habit of a huntress became her admirably. She wore a beaver hat with blue feathers, a surtout of gray-pearl velvet, fastened with diamond clasps, and a petticoat of blue satin, embroidered with silver. On her left shoulder sparkled the diamond studs, on a bow of the same color as the plumes and the petticoat.
确实，女猎人的习惯使她令人钦佩。她戴着一顶带有蓝色羽毛的海狸帽，身着灰色珍珠天鹅绒外套，用钻石扣扣紧，穿着蓝色缎子衬裙，上面绣有银色。她的左肩上的钻石饰钉闪闪发光，蝴蝶结的颜色与羽毛和衬裙的颜色相同。

The king trembled with joy and the cardinal with vexation; although, distant as they were from the queen, they could not count the studs. The queen had them. The only question was, had she ten or twelve?
国王高兴得浑身发抖，红衣主教则烦恼不已。尽管他们距离王后很远，但他们无法数清有多少种螺柱。女王拥有它们。唯一的问题是，她是十岁还是十二岁？

At that moment the violins sounded the signal for the ballet. The king advanced toward Madame the President, with whom he was to dance, and his Highness Monsieur with the queen. They took their places, and the ballet began.
就在这时，小提琴响起了芭蕾舞的信号。国王走向总统夫人，他将与总统夫人共舞，殿下先生则与王后在一起。他们各就各位，芭蕾舞剧开始了。

The king danced facing the queen, and every time he passed by her, he devoured with his eyes those studs of which he could not ascertain the number. A cold sweat covered the brow of the cardinal.
国王面对着王后跳舞，每次经过她身边时，他都会用眼睛吞噬那些他无法确定数量的耳钉。红衣主教的眉头布满了冷汗。

The ballet lasted an hour, and had sixteen ENTREES. The ballet ended amid the applause of the whole assemblage, and everyone reconducted his lady to her place; but the king took advantage of the privilege he had of leaving his lady, to advance eagerly toward the queen.
芭蕾舞剧持续一个小时，有十六个主菜。芭蕾舞在全场的掌声中结束，每个人都将自己的女士引回座位。但国王却利用离开夫人的特权，急切地走向王后。

‘I thank you, madame,’ said he, ‘for the deference you have shown to my wishes, but I think you want two of the studs, and I bring them back to you.’
“我感谢您，女士，”他说，“感谢您对我意愿的尊重，但我想您想要两颗饰钉，我会把它们还给您。”

With these words he held out to the queen the two studs the cardinal had given him.
说着，他把红衣主教送给他的两颗耳钉递给王后。

‘How, sire?’ cried the young queen, affecting surprise, ‘you are giving me, then, two more: I shall have fourteen.’
“怎么样，陛下？”年轻的王后装出惊讶的样子喊道，“那么，您又给了我两个：我将有十四个。”

In fact the king counted them, and the twelve studs were all on her Majesty’s shoulder.
事实上，国王数了一下，十二颗钉子都在女王陛下的肩膀上。

The king called the cardinal.
国王召集了红衣主教。

‘What does this mean, Monsieur Cardinal?’ asked the king in a severe tone.
“红衣主教先生，这是什么意思？”国王严厉地问道。

‘This means, sire,’ replied the cardinal, ‘that I was desirous of presenting her Majesty with these two studs, and that not daring to offer them myself, I adopted this means of inducing her to accept them.’
“这意味着，陛下，”红衣主教回答道，“我想把这两颗耳钉献给女王陛下，但我自己不敢献上，所以采取了这种方式来诱使她接受它们。”

‘And I am the more grateful to your Eminence,’ replied Anne of Austria, with a smile that proved she was not the dupe of this ingenious gallantry, ‘from being certain that these two studs alone have cost you as much as all the others cost his Majesty.’
“我更加感谢阁下，”奥地利的安妮回答道，她的微笑证明了她没有被这种巧妙的英勇行为所欺骗，“因为我确信仅这两个螺柱就让您付出了与其他所有螺柱一样多的代价。”陛下付出了代价。

Then saluting the king and the cardinal, the queen resumed her way to the chamber in which she had dressed, and where she was to take off her costume.
然后，王后向国王和红衣主教致敬，然后继续前往她穿衣服的房间，并在那里脱下她的服装。

The attention which we have been obliged to give, during the commencement of the chapter, to the illustrious personages we have introduced into it, has diverted us for an instant from him to whom Anne of Austria owed the extraordinary triumph she had obtained over the cardinal; and who, confounded, unknown, lost in the crowd gathered at one of the doors, looked on at this scene, comprehensible only to four persons—the king, the queen, his Eminence, and himself.
在本章开始时，我们不得不对我们所介绍的杰出人物给予我们关注，这让我们暂时从他身上转移了注意力，奥地利的安妮战胜红衣主教的非凡胜利归功于他。 ;他茫然不知所措，迷失在聚集在一扇门前的人群中，看着这一幕，只有四个人能理解——国王、王后、主教阁下和他自己。

The queen had just regained her chamber, and d’Artagnan was about to retire, when he felt his shoulder lightly touched. He turned and saw a young woman, who made him a sign to follow her. The face of this young woman was covered with a black velvet mask; but notwithstanding this precaution, which was in fact taken rather against others than against him, he at once recognized his usual guide, the light and intelligent Mme. Bonacieux.
王后刚刚回到自己的寝宫，达达尼昂正要告退，突然感觉肩膀轻轻一碰。他转身看到一位年轻女子，她示意他跟上她。这位年轻女子的脸上戴着黑色天鹅绒面具；尽管采取了这种预防措施，实际上是针对别人而不是针对他，但他还是立刻认出了他通常的向导，即轻松而聪明的夫人。博纳西厄。

On the evening before, they had scarcely seen each other for a moment at the apartment of the Swiss guard, Germain, whither d’Artagnan had sent for her. The haste which the young woman was in to convey to the queen the excellent news of the happy return of her messenger prevented the two lovers from exchanging more than a few words. D’Artagnan therefore followed Mme. Bonacieux moved by a double sentiment—love and curiosity. All the way, and in proportion as the corridors became more deserted, d’Artagnan wished to stop the young woman, seize her and gaze upon her, were it only for a minute; but quick as a bird she glided between his hands, and when he wished to speak to her, her finger placed upon her mouth, with a little imperative gesture full of grace, reminded him that he was under the command of a power which he must blindly obey, and which forbade him even to make the slightest complaint. At length, after winding about for a minute or two, Mme. Bonacieux opened the door of a closet, which was entirely dark, and led d’Artagnan into it. There she made a fresh sign of silence, and opened a second door concealed by tapestry. The opening of this door disclosed a brilliant light, and she disappeared.
前一天晚上，他们在达达尼昂派人去瑞士卫兵热尔曼的公寓里几乎没有见面。年轻女子急于向王后传达她的使者幸福归来的好消息，这使得两个恋人没有多说几句话。因此，达达尼昂跟随了夫人。博纳希厄被双重情感所感动——爱和好奇。一路上，随着走廊变得越来越冷清，达达尼昂希望拦住这位年轻女子，抓住她，凝视她，哪怕只是一分钟；但她像小鸟一样敏捷地在他的双手之间滑行，当他想和她说话时，她的手指放在嘴上，带着一种充满优雅的命令式的手势，提醒他，他正处于一种权力的指挥之下，他必须这样做。盲目服从，这让他连半点抱怨都不允许。最后，在绕了一两分钟后，夫人。博纳希厄打开一间漆黑的壁橱门，领着达达尼昂走了进去。在那里，她再次表示沉默，然后打开了第二扇被挂毯遮住的门。门打开后，绽放出绚丽的光芒，她消失了。

D’Artagnan remained for a moment motionless, asking himself where he could be; but soon a ray of light which penetrated through the chamber, together with the warm and perfumed air which reached him from the same aperture, the conversation of two of three ladies in language at once respectful and refined, and the word ‘Majesty’ several times repeated, indicated clearly that he was in a closet attached to the queen’s apartment. The young man waited in comparative darkness and listened.
达达尼昂一动不动地呆了一会儿，自问自己身在何处。但很快，一道光线穿过房间，伴随着从同一个孔进入他的温暖而芬芳的空气，三名女士中的两位用既恭敬又优雅的语言交谈，并多次提到“陛下”这个词重复了一遍，清楚地表明他在女王公寓的一个壁橱里。年轻人在相对黑暗的环境中等待并倾听。

The queen appeared cheerful and happy, which seemed to astonish the persons who surrounded her and who were accustomed to see her almost always sad and full of care. The queen attributed this joyous feeling to the beauty of the fete, to the pleasure she had experienced in the ballet; and as it is not permissible to contradict a queen, whether she smile or weep, everybody expatiated on the gallantry of the aldermen of the city of Paris.
女王显得开朗而快乐，这似乎让她周围的人感到惊讶，而那些习惯于看到她几乎总是悲伤和充满关怀的人。女王将这种欢乐的感觉归因于节日的美丽，归因于她在芭蕾舞中体验到的快乐；由于不允许顶撞女王，无论她微笑还是哭泣，因此每个人都对巴黎市议员的英勇行为赞不绝口。

Although d’Artagnan did not at all know the queen, he soon distinguished her voice from the others, at first by a slightly foreign accent, and next by that tone of domination naturally impressed upon all royal words. He heard her approach and withdraw from the partially open door; and twice or three times he even saw the shadow of a person intercept the light.
尽管达达尼昂根本不认识王后，但他很快就将她的声音与其他人区分开来，一开始是略带外国口音，接下来是那种自然而然地渗透到所有王室话语中的那种支配性的语气。他听见她走近，又从半开的门退出。有两三次他甚至看到人影挡住了光。

At length a hand and an arm, surpassingly beautiful in their form and whiteness, glided through the tapestry. D’Artagnan at once comprehended that this was his recompense. He cast himself on his knees, seized the hand, and touched it respectfully with his lips. Then the hand was withdrawn, leaving in his an object which he perceived to be a ring. The door immediately closed, and d’Artagnan found himself again in complete obscurity.
最后，一只手和一只手臂在挂毯上滑过，它们的形状和洁白都极其美丽。达达尼昂立刻明白，这就是他的报应。他跪下，抓住那只手，恭敬地用嘴唇触碰它。然后那只手收回了，留下了一个他认为是戒指的物体。门立刻关上了，达达尼昂发现自己又陷入了完全的默默无闻之中。

D’Artagnan placed the ring on his finger, and again waited; it was evident that all was not yet over. After the reward of his devotion, that of his love was to come. Besides, although the ballet was danced, the evening had scarcely begun. Supper was to be served at three, and the clock of St. Jean had struck three quarters past two.
达达尼昂将戒指戴在手指上，再次等待。显然一切还没有结束。在他的奉献得到回报之后，他的爱也随之而来。此外，虽然芭蕾舞已经跳了，但晚上才刚刚开始。晚饭定于三点钟开始，而圣让的时钟已经敲响了两点四分之三。

The sound of voices diminished by degrees in the adjoining chamber. The company was then heard departing; then the door of the closet in which d’Artagnan was, was opened, and Mme. Bonacieux entered.
隔壁房间里的说话声逐渐减弱。然后听到公司离开的声音；然后达达尼昂所在的壁橱的门被打开了，夫人。博纳希厄进来了。

‘You at last?’ cried d’Artagnan.
“你终于来了？”达达尼昂喊道。

‘Silence!’ said the young woman, placing her hand upon his lips; ‘silence, and go the same way you came!’
“安静！”年轻女子把手放在他的嘴唇上说道。 “安静，从来时的路走！”

‘But where and when shall I see you again?’ cried d’Artagnan.
“可是我什么时候才能再见到你呢？”达达尼昂喊道。

‘A note which you will find at home will tell you. Begone, begone!’
“你在家里找到的一张纸条会告诉你。走开，走开！

At these words she opened the door of the corridor, and pushed d’Artagnan out of the room. D’Artagnan obeyed like a child, without the least resistance or objection, which proved that he was really in love.
说完，她打开走廊的门，把达达尼昂推出了房间。达达尼昂像个孩子一样服从，没有丝毫反抗和反对，这证明他是真心相爱的。

23 THE RENDEZVOUS
23 约会

D’Artagnan ran home immediately, and although it was three o’clock in the morning and he had some of the worst quarters of Paris to traverse, he met with no misadventure. Everyone knows that drunkards and lovers have a protecting deity.
达达尼昂立即跑回家，虽然现在是凌晨三点，而且他要穿越巴黎最糟糕的一些街区，但他并没有遇到任何不幸。大家都知道，酒鬼和恋人都有一个保护神。

He found the door of his passage open, sprang up the stairs and knocked softly in a manner agreed upon between him and his lackey. Planchet*, whom he had sent home two hours before from the Hotel de Ville, telling him to sit up for him, opened the door for him.
他发现通道的门开着，跳上楼梯，按照他和仆人约定的方式轻轻敲门。两小时前，他从巴黎市政厅将普朗谢特*送回家，让他为他坐起来，并为他打开了门。

*The reader may ask, ‘How came Planchet here?’ when he was left ‘stiff as a rush’ in London. In the intervening time Buckingham perhaps sent him to Paris, as he did the horses.
*读者可能会问，“普兰切特怎么会来到这里？”当他在伦敦“僵硬得像匆匆忙忙”时。在此期间，白金汉也许派他去巴黎，就像他派马匹一样。

‘Has anyone brought a letter for me?’ asked d’Artagnan, eagerly.
“有人给我带来一封信吗？”达达尼昂急切地问道。

‘No one has BROUGHT a letter, monsieur,’ replied Planchet; ‘but one has come of itself.’
“没有人带信来，先生，”普朗歇回答道。 “但有一个是自然而然出现的。”

‘What do you mean, blockhead?’
“你什么意思，笨蛋？”

‘I mean to say that when I came in, although I had the key of your apartment in my pocket, and that key had never quit me, I found a letter on the green table cover in your bedroom.’
“我的意思是说，当我进来时，虽然我口袋里有你公寓的钥匙，而且那把钥匙从未离开过我，但我在你卧室的绿色桌布上发现了一封信。”

‘And where is that letter?’
“那封信在哪里？”

‘I left it where I found it, monsieur. It is not natural for letters to enter people’s houses in this manner. If the window had been open or even ajar, I should think nothing of it; but, no—all was hermetically sealed. Beware, monsieur; there is certainly some magic underneath.’
“我把它留在我发现它的地方了，先生。信件以这种方式进入人们的家中是不自然的。如果窗户开着，甚至半开着，我就不会介意。但是，不——一切都是密封的。当心，先生；这里面肯定有一些魔力。”

Meanwhile, the young man had darted in to his chamber, and opened the letter. It was from Mme. Bonacieux, and was expressed in these terms:
与此同时，年轻人冲进了自己的房间，打开了信。这是夫人寄来的。 Bonacieux，并用以下术语表达：

‘There are many thanks to be offered to you, and to be transmitted to you. Be this evening about ten o’clock at St. Cloud, in front of the pavilion which stands at the corner of the house of M. d’Estrees.—C.B.’
‘有很多感谢要献给你，并转达给你。今天晚上十点左右，在圣克劳德，在埃斯特里先生宅邸拐角处的凉亭前。——C.B.

While reading this letter, d’Artagnan felt his heart dilated and compressed by that delicious spasm which tortures and caresses the hearts of lovers.
读这封信时，达达尼昂感到自己的心因那美妙的痉挛而扩张和压缩，这种痉挛折磨和爱抚着恋人的心。

It was the first billet he had received; it was the first rendezvous that had been granted him. His heart, swelled by the intoxication of joy, felt ready to dissolve away at the very gate of that terrestrial paradise called Love!
这是他收到的第一根钢坯。这是他获得的第一次约会。他的心因喜悦的陶醉而膨胀，感觉即将在那个名为爱的人间天堂的门口消散！

‘Well, monsieur,’ said Planchet, who had observed his master grow red and pale successively, ‘did I not guess truly? Is it not some bad affair?’
“好吧，先生，”普朗谢看着他的主人脸色一阵一阵红一阵一阵白，说道，“我猜的不是真的吗？这不是一件坏事吗？

‘You are mistaken, Planchet,’ replied d’Artagnan; ‘and as a proof, there is a crown to drink my health.’
“你错了，普兰谢特，”达达尼昂回答道。 “作为证明，有一顶王冠为我的健康干杯。”

‘I am much obliged to Monsieur for the crown he had given me, and I promise him to follow his instructions exactly; but it is not the less true that letters which come in this way into shut-up houses—‘
“我非常感谢先生授予我的王冠，我向他保证会严格遵守他的指示；但同样真实的是，以这种方式进入封闭房屋的信件——”

‘Fall from heaven, my friend, fall from heaven.’
“从天堂坠落，我的朋友，从天堂坠落。”

‘Then Monsieur is satisfied?’ asked Planchet.
“那么先生满意了吗？”普朗谢问道。

‘My dear Planchet, I am the happiest of men!’
“我亲爱的普兰切特，我是最幸福的人！”

‘And I may profit by Monsieur’s happiness, and go to bed?’
“我可以从先生的幸福中受益，然后去睡觉吗？”

‘Yes, go.’
“是的，走吧。”

‘May the blessings of heaven fall upon Monsieur! But it is not the less true that that letter—‘
‘愿上天的祝福降临到先生身上！但这封信也同样真实——”

And Planchet retired, shaking his head with an air of doubt, which the liberality of d’Artagnan had not entirely effaced.
普朗谢退了出去，摇着头，脸上带着怀疑的神情，达达尼昂的慷慨并没有完全消除这种怀疑。

Left alone, d’Artagnan read and reread his billet. Then he kissed and rekissed twenty times the lines traced by the hand of his beautiful mistress. At length he went to bed, fell asleep, and had golden dreams.
达达尼昂独自一人，读了又读他的住所。然后他亲吻了又亲吻了他美丽的情妇手上画出的线条二十次。最后他上了床，睡着了，做了金色的梦。

At seven o’clock in the morning he arose and called Planchet, who at the second summons opened the door, his countenance not yet quite freed from the anxiety of the preceding night.
早上七点钟，他起床打电话给普兰谢特，普兰谢特在第二次召唤时打开了门，他的脸上还没有完全摆脱前一晚的焦虑。

‘Planchet,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘I am going out for all day, perhaps. You are, therefore, your own master till seven o’clock in the evening; but at seven o’clock you must hold yourself in readiness with two horses.’
“普朗谢特，”达达尼昂说，“也许我要出去一整天。因此，在晚上七点之前，你都是自己的主人。但到了七点，你必须带着两匹马做好准备。”

‘There!’ said Planchet. ‘We are going again, it appears, to have our hides pierced in all sorts of ways.’
“那儿！”普兰歇说。 “看来我们又要以各种方式刺穿我们的皮肤了。”

‘You will take your musketoon and your pistols.’
“你会带上你的步枪和手枪。”

‘There, now! Didn’t I say so?’ cried Planchet. ‘I was sure of it—the cursed letter!’
'就是现在！ “我不是说过了吗？”普朗切特喊道。 “我确信这一点——那封该死的信！”

‘Don’t be afraid, you idiot; there is nothing in hand but a party of pleasure.’
‘别害怕，你这个白痴；除了一场快乐的聚会之外，手头什么也没有。”

‘Ah, like the charming journey the other day, when it rained bullets and produced a crop of steel traps!’
“啊，就像前几天那次迷人的旅程一样，当时枪林弹雨，产生了一堆钢制陷阱！”

‘Well, if you are really afraid, Monsieur Planchet,’ resumed d’Artagnan, ‘I will go without you. I prefer traveling alone to having a companion who entertains the least fear.’
“好吧，如果你真的害怕，普朗谢先生，”达达尼昂继续说道，“我会不带你去。”我更喜欢独自旅行，而不是有一个最不害怕的同伴。”

‘Monsieur does me wrong,’ said Planchet; ‘I thought he had seen me at work.’
“先生冤枉了我，”普朗谢说。 “我以为他看到我在工作。”

‘Yes, but I thought perhaps you had worn out all your courage the first time.’
“是的，但我想也许你第一次就已经耗尽了所有的勇气。”

‘Monsieur shall see that upon occasion I have some left; only I beg Monsieur not to be too prodigal of it if he wishes it to last long.’
“先生，有时我会剩下一些；只是我恳求先生，如果他希望它能长久的话，就不要太挥霍了。

‘Do you believe you have still a certain amount of it to expend this evening?’
“你认为今晚你还有一定的钱可以花吗？”

‘I hope so, monsieur.’
“希望如此，先生。”

‘Well, then, I count on you.’
“那么，我就指望你了。”

‘At the appointed hour I shall be ready; only I believed that Monsieur had but one horse in the Guard stables.’
“到了指定的时间我就会准备好；只是我相信先生在卫兵马厩里只有一匹马。

‘Perhaps there is but one at this moment; but by this evening there will be four.’
“也许此刻只有一个；但到今天晚上就会有四个了。”

‘It appears that our journey was a remounting journey, then?’
“看来我们的旅程是一次重新上马的旅程？”

‘Exactly so,’ said d’Artagnan; and nodding to Planchet, he went out.
“正是如此，”达达尼昂说。他向普兰切特点了点头，然后就出去了。

M. Bonacieux was at his door. D’Artagnan’s intention was to go out without speaking to the worthy mercer; but the latter made so polite and friendly a salutation that his tenant felt obliged, not only to stop, but to enter into conversation with him.
博纳西厄先生就在他家门口。达达尼昂打算出去，不跟那位可敬的商人说话。但后者如此礼貌而友好地打招呼，以至于他的房客觉得有必要不仅停下来，而且还与他交谈。

Besides, how is it possible to avoid a little condescension toward a husband whose pretty wife has appointed a meeting with you that same evening at St. Cloud, opposite D’Estrees’s pavilion? D’Artagnan approached him with the most amiable air he could assume.
此外，如果丈夫的漂亮妻子约好了当天晚上在德埃斯特里凉亭对面的圣克劳德与你见面，怎么可能避免对他表现出一点屈尊呢？达达尼昂以他所能表现出的最和蔼可亲的神情走近他。

The conversation naturally fell upon the incarceration of the poor man. M. Bonacieux, who was ignorant that d’Artagnan had overheard his conversation with the stranger of Meung, related to his young tenant the persecutions of that monster, M. de Laffemas, whom he never ceased to designate, during his account, by the title of the ‘cardinal’s executioner,’ and expatiated at great length upon the Bastille, the bolts, the wickets, the dungeons, the gratings, the instruments of torture.
话题自然而然地落在了这个可怜人的监禁上。博纳西厄先生不知道达达尼昂无意中听到了他与默恩陌生人的谈话，他向他的年轻房客讲述了对那个怪物德·拉夫马斯先生的迫害，他在叙述中从未停止指定他是由“红衣主教的刽子手”的称号，并详细阐述了巴士底狱、门闩、小门、地牢、格栅和酷刑工具。

D’Artagnan listened to him with exemplary complaisance, and when he had finished said, ‘And Madame Bonacieux, do you know who carried her off?—For I do not forget that I owe to that unpleasant circumstance the good fortune of having made your acquaintance.’
达达尼昂以堪称典范的恭维态度听着他的讲话，听完后说道：“博纳希厄夫人，你知道是谁把她带走的吗？——因为我没有忘记，正是由于那次不愉快的情况，我才幸运地得到了你的帮助。”熟人。'

‘Ah!’ said Bonacieux, ‘they took good care not to tell me that; and my wife, on her part, has sworn to me by all that’s sacred that she does not know. But you,’ continued M. Bonacieux, in a tine of perfect good fellowship, ‘what has become of you all these days? I have not seen you nor your friends, and I don’t think you could gather all that dust that I saw Planchet brush off your boots yesterday from the pavement of Paris.’
“啊！”博纳希厄说，“他们小心翼翼地没有告诉我这件事。而我的妻子则以她所不知道的一切神圣事物向我发誓。但是你，”博纳西厄先生继续说道，语气中充满了友好的气氛，“这些天你怎么样了？我没有见过你，也没有见过你的朋友，而且我认为你无法收集我昨天在巴黎人行道上看到普兰切特拂去你靴子上的灰尘。”

‘You are right, my dear Monsieur Bonacieux, my friends and I have been on a little journey.’
“你是对的，亲爱的博纳西厄先生，我和我的朋友们已经踏上了一段小小的旅程。”

‘Far from here?’
'离这儿远？'

‘Oh, Lord, no! About forty leagues only. We went to take Monsieur Athos to the waters of Forges, where my friends still remain.’
‘噢，主啊，不！大约只有四十里格。我们带阿托斯先生去了福尔吉斯水域，我的朋友们仍然留在那里。

‘And you have returned, have you not?’ replied M. Bonacieux, giving to his countenance a most sly air. ‘A handsome young fellow like you does not obtain long leaves of absence from his mistress; and we were impatiently waited for at Paris, were we not?’
“你回来了，不是吗？”博纳希厄先生回答道，脸上露出一种最狡猾的神情。 “像你这样英俊的年轻人不会从他的情妇那里得到长期的休假；他们在巴黎等得不耐烦，不是吗？

‘My faith!’ said the young man, laughing, ‘I confess it, and so much more the readily, my dear Bonacieux, as I see there is no concealing anything from you. Yes, I was expected, and very impatiently, I acknowledge.’
“我的信仰！”年轻人笑着说，“我承认这一点，而且更愿意承认，亲爱的博纳希厄，因为我知道没有什么可以向你隐瞒的。是的，我承认，我是在预料之中的，而且非常不耐烦。”

A slight shade passed over the brow of Bonacieux, but so slight that d’Artagnan did not perceive it.
博纳希厄的额头上掠过一丝淡淡的阴影，但太淡了，达达尼昂没有察觉。

‘And we are going to be recompensed for our diligence?’ continued the mercer, with a trifling alteration in his voice—so trifling, indeed, that d’Artagnan did not perceive it any more than he had the momentary shade which, an instant before, had darkened the countenance of the worthy man.
“我们的勤奋会得到回报吗？”布商继续说道，他的声音略有变化——确实如此，达达尼昂没有察觉到这一点，就像他有一瞬间的阴影一样。之前，曾让这位可敬之人的脸色变得阴沉。

‘Ah, may you be a true prophet!’ said d’Artagnan, laughing.
“啊，愿你成为一位真正的先知！”达达尼昂笑着说。

‘No; what I say,’ replied Bonacieux, ‘is only that I may know whether I am delaying you.’
'不; “我所说的，”博纳希厄回答道，“只是为了让我知道我是否耽误了你。”

‘Why that question, my dear host?’ asked d’Artagnan. ‘Do you intend to sit up for me?’
“为什么问这个问题，我亲爱的主人？”达达尼昂问道。 “你打算帮我坐起来吗？”

‘No; but since my arrest and the robbery that was committed in my house, I am alarmed every time I hear a door open, particularly in the night. What the deuce can you expect? I am no swordsman.’
'不;但自从我被捕并在家里发生抢劫以来，每次听到开门声我都会感到惊慌，尤其是在晚上。你能期待什么？我不是剑客。

‘Well, don’t be alarmed if I return at one, two or three o’clock in the morning; indeed, do not be alarmed if I do not come at all.’
“好吧，如果我凌晨一点、两点或三点回来，请不要惊慌；事实上，如果我根本不来，请不要惊慌。

This time Bonacieux became so pale that d’Artagnan could not help perceiving it, and asked him what was the matter.
这一次，博纳希厄的脸色变得如此苍白，达达尼昂忍不住察觉到了，并问他出了什么事。

‘Nothing,’ replied Bonacieux, ‘nothing. Since my misfortunes I have been subject to faintnesses, which seize me all at once, and I have just felt a cold shiver. Pay no attention to it; you have nothing to occupy yourself with but being happy.’
“没什么，”博纳希厄回答道，“没什么。”自从我遭遇不幸以来，我一直感到头晕目眩，一下子就抓住了我，我只感到一阵冷战。不予理睬；除了快乐，你没有什么可忙的。

‘Then I have full occupation, for I am so.’
“那么我就有了全部的工作，因为我就是这样。”

‘Not yet; wait a little! This evening, you said.’
'还没有;等一下！今天晚上，你说的。”

‘Well, this evening will come, thank God! And perhaps you look for it with as much impatience as I do; perhaps this evening Madame Bonacieux will visit the conjugal domicile.’
‘好吧，今晚将会到来，感谢上帝！也许你和我一样不耐烦地寻找它；也许今天晚上博纳瑟夫人会去拜访夫妻住所。”

‘Madame Bonacieux is not at liberty this evening,’ replied the husband, seriously; ‘she is detained at the Louvre this evening by her duties.’
“博纳瑟夫人今晚没空，”丈夫严肃地回答道。 “她今晚因公被拘留在卢浮宫。”

‘So much the worse for you, my dear host, so much the worse! When I am happy, I wish all the world to be so; but it appears that is not possible.’
“对你来说更糟糕了，我亲爱的主人，更糟糕了！当我快乐的时候，我愿全世界都如此；但看来这是不可能的。”

The young man departed, laughing at the joke, which he thought he alone could comprehend.
年轻人听了这个笑话，大笑起来，离开了，他以为只有他能听懂。

‘Amuse yourself well!’ replied Bonacieux, in a sepulchral tone.
“好好享受吧！”博纳希厄用一种阴森的语气回答道。

But d’Artagnan was too far off to hear him; and if he had heard him in the disposition of mind he then enjoyed, he certainly would not have remarked it.
但达达尼昂距离太远，听不到他的声音。如果他以他当时喜欢的心态来听他讲话，他肯定不会这么说。

He took his way toward the hotel of M. de Treville; his visit of the day before, it is to be remembered, had been very short and very little explicative.
他朝德特雷维尔先生的旅馆走去。值得注意的是，他前一天的访问非常简短，也没有什么解释。

He found Treville in a joyful mood. He had thought the king and queen charming at the ball. It is true the cardinal had been particularly ill-tempered. He had retired at one o’clock under the pretense of being indisposed. As to their Majesties, they did not return to the Louvre till six o’clock in the morning.
他发现特雷维尔心情愉快。他认为国王和王后在舞会上很迷人。确实，红衣主教脾气特别暴躁。他借口身体不适，于一点钟就退休了。至于陛下，他们直到早上六点才回到卢浮宫。

‘Now,’ said Treville, lowering his voice, and looking into every corner of the apartment to see if they were alone, ‘now let us talk about yourself, my young friend; for it is evident that your happy return has something to do with the joy of the king, the triumph of the queen, and the humiliation of his Eminence. You must look out for yourself.’
“现在，”特雷维尔压低声音说道，环顾公寓的每个角落，看看是否只有他们一个人，“现在让我们谈谈你自己吧，我的年轻朋友；因为很明显，你的幸福归来与国王的喜悦、王后的凯旋和陛下的屈辱有关。你必须照顾好自己。

‘What have I to fear,’ replied d’Artagnan, ‘as long as I shall have the luck to enjoy the favor of their Majesties?’
“我有什么好怕的，”达达尼昂回答道，“只要我能幸运地得到两位陛下的青睐呢？”

‘Everything, believe me. The cardinal is not the man to forget a mystification until he has settled account with the mystifier; and the mystifier appears to me to have the air of being a certain young Gascon of my acquaintance.’
‘一切，相信我。红衣主教不是那种在与神秘人算账之前就忘记神秘事件的人。在我看来，这个神秘者就像是我认识的某个年轻的加斯科涅人。

‘Do you believe that the cardinal is as well posted as yourself, and knows that I have been to London?’
“你相信红衣主教和你一样，知道我去过伦敦吗？”

‘The devil! You have been to London! Was it from London you brought that beautiful diamond that glitters on your finger? Beware, my dear d’Artagnan! A present from an enemy is not a good thing. Are there not some Latin verses upon that subject? Stop!’
'恶魔！你去过伦敦！您从伦敦带来了手指上闪闪发光的美丽钻石吗？当心，我亲爱的达达尼昂！敌人送来的礼物不是什么好东西。难道没有一些关于这个主题的拉丁诗句吗？停止！'

‘Yes, doubtless,’ replied d’Artagnan, who had never been able to cram the first rudiments of that language into his head, and who had by his ignorance driven his master to despair, ‘yes, doubtless there is one.’
“是的，毫无疑问，”达达尼昂回答说，他从来没能把这种语言的初步基础知识塞进自己的脑子里，而且由于他的无知，他的主人已经绝望了，“是的，毫无疑问是有一个。”

‘There certainly is one,’ said M. de Treville, who had a tincture of literature, ‘and Monsieur de Benserade was quoting it to me the other day. Stop a minute—ah, this is it: ‘Timeo Danaos et dona ferentes,’ which means, ‘Beware of the enemy who makes you presents.’
“肯定有一个，”德·特雷维尔先生说，他对文学有一定的了解，“德·本塞拉德先生前几天向我引用过它。等一下——啊，是这样的：“Timeo Danaos et dona ferentes”，意思是“当心给你送礼物的敌人。”

‘This diamond does not come from an enemy, monsieur,’ replied d’Artagnan, ‘it comes from the queen.’
“这颗钻石不是来自敌人，先生，”达达尼昂回答道，“它来自王后。”

‘From the queen! Oh, oh!’ said M. de Treville. ‘Why, it is indeed a true royal jewel, which is worth a thousand pistoles if it is worth a denier. By whom did the queen send you this jewel?’
‘来自女王！哦，哦！”德特雷维尔先生说道。 ‘哎呀，这确实是一颗真正的皇家宝石，如果它值一个旦尼尔的话，它就值一千皮斯托尔了。王后是谁送你这件珠宝的？

‘She gave it to me herself.’
“她亲自给我的。”

‘Where?’
'在哪里？'

‘In the room adjoining the chamber in which she changed her toilet.’
“在与她更换厕所的房间相邻的房间里。”

‘How?’
'如何？'

‘Giving me her hand to kiss.’
“让我亲吻她的手。”

‘You have kissed the queen’s hand?’ said M. de Treville, looking earnestly at d’Artagnan.
“你亲吻了王后的手吗？”德·特雷维尔先生认真地看着达达尼昂说道。

‘Her Majesty did me the honor to grant me that favor.’
“女王陛下很荣幸给予我这样的恩惠。”

‘And that in the presence of witnesses! Imprudent, thrice imprudent!’
“而且是在证人在场的情况下！不谨慎，三倍不谨慎！

‘No, monsieur, be satisfied; nobody saw her,’ replied d’Artagnan, and he related to M. de Treville how the affair came to pass.
“不，先生，满意吧；达达尼昂回答说：“没人看见她。”他向德·特雷维尔先生讲述了这件事是如何发生的。

‘Oh, the women, the women!’ cried the old soldier. ‘I know them by their romantic imagination. Everything that savors of mystery charms them. So you have seen the arm, that was all. You would meet the queen, and she would not know who you are?’
“哦，女人，女人！”老士兵喊道。 “我通过他们浪漫的想象力认识他们。一切充满神秘色彩的事物都会让他们着迷。所以你已经看到了手臂，仅此而已。你会见到女王，而她不会知道你是谁？

‘No; but thanks to this diamond,’ replied the young man.
'不;但多亏了这颗钻石，”年轻人回答道。

‘Listen,’ said M. de Treville; ‘shall I give you counsel, good counsel, the counsel of a friend?’
“听着，”德特雷维尔先生说。 “我可以给你建议吗？好的建议，朋友的建议吗？”

‘You will do me honor, monsieur,’ said d’Artagnan.
“您将为我赢得荣誉，先生，”达达尼昂说。

‘Well, then, off to the nearest goldsmith’s, and sell that diamond for the highest price you can get from him. However much of a Jew he may be, he will give you at least eight hundred pistoles. Pistoles have no name, young man, and that ring has a terrible one, which may betray him who wears it.’
“好吧，那么，去最近的金匠那里，以你能从他那里得到的最高价格卖掉那颗钻石。不管他是多么的犹太人，他至少会给你八百皮斯托尔。皮斯托尔没有名字，年轻人，而那枚戒指的名字很糟糕，可能会背叛佩戴它的人。

‘Sell this ring, a ring which comes from my sovereign? Never!’ said d’Artagnan.
‘卖掉这枚戒指，一枚来自我君主的戒指？从来没有！”达达尼昂说。

‘Then, at least turn the gem inside, you silly fellow; for everybody must be aware that a cadet from Gascony does not find such stones in his mother’s jewel case.’
‘那么，至少把宝石放进去吧，你这个傻家伙；因为每个人都必须意识到，来自加斯科涅的学员在他母亲的珠宝盒中找不到这样的宝石。

‘You think, then, I have something to dread?’ asked d’Artagnan.
“那么，你认为我有什么可怕的事情吗？”达达尼昂问道。

‘I mean to say, young man, that he who sleeps over a mine the match of which is already lighted, may consider himself in safety in comparison with you.’
“我的意思是，年轻人，睡在地雷上且火柴已经点燃的人，可能会认为自己与你相比是安全的。”

‘The devil!’ said d’Artagnan, whom the positive tone of M. de Treville began to disquiet, ‘the devil! What must I do?’
“魔鬼！”达达尼昂说道，德·特雷维尔先生积极的语气开始让达达尼昂感到不安，“魔鬼！我必须做什么？'

‘Above all things be always on your guard. The cardinal has a tenacious memory and a long arm; you may depend upon it, he will repay you by some ill turn.’
‘最重要的是要时刻保持警惕。红衣主教有顽强的记忆力和长臂；你可以信赖它，他会用一些恶报来报复你。

‘But of what sort?’
“但是什么样的呢？”

‘Eh! How can I tell? Has he not all the tricks of a demon at his command? The least that can be expected is that you will be arrested.’
‘呃！我怎么知道？难道恶魔的所有伎俩都在他的掌握之中吗？至少可以预料的是你会被逮捕。

‘What! Will they dare to arrest a man in his Majesty’s service?’
'什么！他们敢逮捕为陛下服务的人吗？

‘PARDIEU! They did not scruple much in the case of Athos. At all events, young man, rely upon one who has been thirty years at court. Do not lull yourself in security, or you will be lost; but, on the contrary—and it is I who say it—see enemies in all directions. If anyone seeks a quarrel with you, shun it, were it with a child of ten years old. If you are attacked by day or by night, fight, but retreat, without shame; if you cross a bridge, feel every plank of it with your foot, lest one should give way beneath you; if you pass before a house which is being built, look up, for fear a stone should fall upon your head; if you stay out late, be always followed by your lackey, and let your lackey be armed—if, by the by, you can be sure of your lackey. Mistrust everybody, your friend, your brother, your mistress— your mistress above all.’
‘帕迪厄！对于阿托斯的事情，他们并没有太多顾忌。无论如何，年轻人，请相信一位已经在宫廷工作了三十年的人。不要让自己陷入安全感，否则你会迷失方向；但是，恰恰相反——这是我自己说的——看到四面八方的敌人。如果有人想与你争吵，即使是十岁的孩子，也要避开。日夜受袭，战而退，无耻；如果你过桥，用脚感受桥上的每一块木板，以免有人在你脚下让路。如果你经过一栋正在建造的房屋前，请向上看，以免一块石头掉到你的头上。如果你在外面呆到很晚，你的仆人就永远跟着你，并让你的仆人武装起来——顺便说一句，如果你能确定你的仆人。不信任每个人，你的朋友，你的兄弟，你的情妇——尤其是你的情妇。

D’Artagnan blushed.
达达尼昂脸红了。

‘My mistress above all,’ repeated he, mechanically; ‘and why her rather than another?’
“首先是我的情妇，”他机械地重复道。 “为什么是她而不是另一个？”

‘Because a mistress is one of the cardinal’s favorite means; he has not one that is more expeditious. A woman will sell you for ten pistoles, witness Delilah. You are acquainted with the Scriptures?’
“因为情妇是红衣主教最喜欢的手段之一；他没有比这更快捷的方法了。一个女人会以十皮托的价格卖掉你，黛利拉就是证人。你熟悉圣经吗？

D’Artagnan thought of the appointment Mme. Bonacieux had made with him for that very evening; but we are bound to say, to the credit of our hero, that the bad opinion entertained by M. de Treville of women in general, did not inspire him with the least suspicion of his pretty hostess.
达达尼昂想到了任命夫人。博纳希厄当天晚上就和他约好了。但我们不得不说，值得我们的英雄称赞的是，德·特雷维尔先生对妇女的普遍看法并不好，他并没有对他漂亮的女主人产生丝毫怀疑。

‘But, A PROPOS,’ resumed M. de Treville, ‘what has become of your three companions?’
“但是，顺便说一句，”德·特雷维尔先生继续说道，“你的三个同伴怎么样了？”

‘I was about to ask you if you had heard any news of them?’
“我正想问你有没有听说过他们的消息？”

‘None, monsieur.’
“没有，先生。”

‘Well, I left them on my road—Porthos at Chantilly, with a duel on his hands; Aramis at Crevecoeur, with a ball in his shoulder; and Athos at Amiens, detained by an accusation of coining.’
“好吧，我把他们留在了路上——波尔托斯在尚蒂伊，他的手上有一场决斗；阿拉米斯（Aramis）在克雷维科尔（Crevecoeur），肩上有球；还有阿多斯在亚眠，因铸造硬币的指控而被拘留。

‘See there, now!’ said M. de Treville; ‘and how the devil did you escape?’
“看那儿，现在！”德·特雷维尔先生说道。 “你到底是怎么逃脱的？”

‘By a miracle, monsieur, I must acknowledge, with a sword thrust in my breast, and by nailing the Comte de Wardes on the byroad to Calais, like a butterfly on a tapestry.’
“先生，我必须承认这是一个奇迹，一把剑插在我的胸口，把瓦尔德伯爵钉在通往加莱的小路上，就像挂毯上的蝴蝶一样。”

‘There again! De Wardes, one of the cardinal’s men, a cousin of Rochefort! Stop, my friend, I have an idea.’
‘又来了！德瓦尔德，红衣主教的手下之一，罗什福尔的表弟！停下来，我的朋友，我有一个主意。

‘Speak, monsieur.’
“请说，先生。”

‘In your place, I would do one thing.’
“如果我处在你的位置，我会做一件事。”

‘What?’
'什么？'

‘While his Eminence was seeking for me in Paris, I would take, without sound of drum or trumpet, the road to Picardy, and would go and make some inquiries concerning my three companions. What the devil! They merit richly that piece of attention on your part.’
“当主教大人在巴黎寻找我时，我会在没有鼓声或喇叭声的情况下，走上通往皮卡第的道路，去打听一些有关我的三个同伴的情况。什么鬼啊！他们非常值得你的关注。

‘The advice is good, monsieur, and tomorrow I will set out.’
“先生，这个建议很好，明天我就出发。”

‘Tomorrow! Any why not this evening?’
'明天！为什么不今晚呢？

‘This evening, monsieur, I am detained in Paris by indispensable business.’
“今天晚上，先生，我因不可推卸的事务而滞留在巴黎。”

‘Ah, young man, young man, some flirtation or other. Take care, I repeat to you, take care. It is woman who has ruined us, still ruins us, and will ruin us, as long as the world stands. Take my advice and set out this evening.’
‘啊，年轻人，年轻人，调情什么的。保重，我重复一遍，保重。只要世界存在，女人就已经毁了我们，现在仍然毁了我们，而且还会毁掉我们。听从我的建议，今晚就出发。”

‘Impossible, monsieur.’
“不可能，先生。”

‘You have given your word, then?’
“那么你已经做出承诺了吗？”

‘Yes, monsieur.’
“是的，先生。”

‘Ah, that’s quite another thing; but promise me, if you should not be killed tonight, that you will go tomorrow.’
‘啊，那是另一回事了；但请答应我，如果今晚你不被杀，那么你明天就走。”

‘I promise it.’
“我保证。”

‘Do you need money?’
'你需要钱吗？'

‘I have still fifty pistoles. That, I think, is as much as I shall want.’
“我还有五十皮斯托尔。”我想，这就是我想要的。

‘But your companions?’
“但是你的同伴们呢？”

‘I don’t think they can be in need of any. We left Paris, each with seventy-five pistoles in his pocket.’
“我认为他们不需要任何东西。我们离开巴黎，每人口袋里都揣着七十五皮斯托尔。”

‘Shall I see you again before your departure?’
“在你离开之前我可以再见你一次吗？”

‘I think not, monsieur, unless something new should happen.’
“我想不会，先生，除非发生新的事情。”

‘Well, a pleasant journey.’
“嗯，一次愉快的旅程。”

‘Thanks, monsieur.’
“谢谢，先生。”

D’Artagnan left M. de Treville, touched more than ever by his paternal solicitude for his Musketeers.
达达尼昂离开德特雷维尔先生时，比以往任何时候都更被他父亲般对火枪手的关怀所感动。

He called successively at the abodes of Athos, Porthos, and Aramis. Neither of them had returned. Their lackeys likewise were absent, and nothing had been heard of either the one or the other. He would have inquired after them of their mistresses, but he was neither acquainted with Porthos’s nor Aramis’s, and as to Athos, he had none.
他先后拜访了阿托斯、波尔托斯和阿拉米斯的住所。他们俩都没有回来。他们的走狗也同样缺席，两人都没有任何消息。他本来想打听一下他们的情妇，但他既不熟悉波托斯的情妇，也不认识阿拉米斯的情妇，至于阿多斯，他也不认识。

As he passed the Hotel des Gardes, he took a glance in to the stables. Three of the four horses had already arrived. Planchet, all astonishment, was busy grooming them, and had already finished two.
当他经过嘉德酒店时，他瞥了一眼马厩。四匹马中的三匹已经到了。普朗切特大吃一惊，忙着梳理它们，已经完成了两只。

‘Ah, monsieur,’ said Planchet, on perceiving d’Artagnan, ‘how glad I am to see you.’
“啊，先生，”普朗歇一看到达达尼昂就说道，“见到你我多么高兴啊。”

‘Why so, Planchet?’ asked the young man.
“为什么会这样，普兰切特？”年轻人问道。

‘Do you place confidence in our landlord—Monsieur Bonacieux?’
“您对我们的房东博纳西厄先生有信心吗？”

‘I? Not the least in the world.’
'我？世界上最不重要的。

‘Oh, you do quite right, monsieur.’
“哦，你说得对，先生。”

‘But why this question?’
“但是为什么要问这个问题呢？”

‘Because, while you were talking with him, I watched you without listening to you; and, monsieur, his countenance changed color two or three times!’
‘因为，当你和他说话的时候，我只是看着你，没有听你说话；先生，他的脸色变了两三次！

‘Bah!’
'呸！'

‘Preoccupied as Monsieur was with the letter he had received, he did not observe that; but I, whom the strange fashion in which that letter came into the house had placed on my guard—I did not lose a movement of his features.’
“尽管先生全神贯注于他收到的信，但他没有注意到这一点；但我，因为那封信以一种奇怪的方式进入房子，让我保持警惕——我没有失去他的表情。

‘And you found it?’
“你找到了吗？”

‘Traitorous, monsieur.’
“叛徒，先生。”

‘Indeed!’
'的确！'

‘Still more; as soon as Monsieur had left and disappeared round the corner of the street, Monsieur Bonacieux took his hat, shut his door, and set off at a quick pace in an opposite direction.’
‘还有更多；先生一离开，消失在街角，博纳西厄先生就拿起帽子，关上门，快步朝相反的方向走去。

‘It seems you are right, Planchet; all this appears to be a little mysterious; and be assured that we will not pay him our rent until the matter shall be categorically explained to us.’
“看来你是对的，普朗切特；这一切显得有些神秘；请放心，在向我们明确解释此事之前，我们不会向他支付房租。”

‘Monsieur jests, but Monsieur will see.’
“先生开玩笑，但先生会明白的。”

‘What would you have, Planchet? What must come is written.’
“你想要什么，普兰切特？必须发生的事情已经写好了。

‘Monsieur does not then renounce his excursion for this evening?’
“那么先生不会放弃今晚的旅行吧？”

‘Quite the contrary, Planchet; the more ill will I have toward Monsieur Bonacieux, the more punctual I shall be in keeping the appointment made by that letter which makes you so uneasy.’
“恰恰相反，普兰切特；我对博纳西厄先生越是怀有恶意，我就越要准时遵守那封让您如此不安的信中所定的约会。

‘Then that is Monsieur’s determination?’
“那么这就是先生的决定？”

‘Undeniably, my friend. At nine o’clock, then, be ready here at the hotel, I will come and take you.’
‘不可否认，我的朋友。那么九点钟，到酒店准备一下，我来接你。”

Planchet seeing there was no longer any hope of making his master renounce his project, heaved a profound sigh and set to work to groom the third horse.
普兰切特看到已经没有希望让他的主人放弃他的计划了，他深深地叹了口气，开始准备第三匹马。

As to d’Artagnan, being at bottom a prudent youth, instead of returning home, went and dined with the Gascon priest, who, at the time of the distress of the four friends, had given them a breakfast of chocolate.
至于达达尼昂，他本质上是个谨慎的年轻人，没有回家，而是去和加斯科尼神父一起吃饭，在四个朋友陷入困境的时候，神父给了他们一份巧克力早餐。

24 THE PAVILION
24 展馆

At nine o’clock d’Artagnan was at the Hotel des Gardes; he found Planchet all ready. The fourth horse had arrived.
九点钟，达达尼昂到达嘉德酒店。他发现普兰切特已经准备好了。第四匹马已经到了。

Planchet was armed with his musketoon and a pistol. D’Artagnan had his sword and placed two pistols in his belt; then both mounted and departed quietly. It was quite dark, and no one saw them go out. Planchet took place behind his master, and kept at a distance of ten paces from him.
普朗切特手持滑膛枪和手枪。达达尼昂拿着剑，腰带上挂着两把手枪。然后两人悄悄上马离开。天色已经黑了，没有人看见他们出去。普朗切特站在他主人的身后，与他保持着十步的距离。

D’Artagnan crossed the quays, went out by the gate of La Conference and followed the road, much more beautiful then than it is now, which leads to St. Cloud.
达达尼昂穿过码头，出了会议中心的大门，沿着那条路走，那条路当时比现在漂亮得多，通向圣克劳德。

As long as he was in the city, Planchet kept at the respectful distance he had imposed upon himself; but as soon as the road began to be more lonely and dark, he drew softly nearer, so that when they entered the Bois de Boulogne he found himself riding quite naturally side by side with his master. In fact, we must not dissemble that the oscillation of the tall trees and the reflection of the moon in the dark underwood gave him serious uneasiness. D’Artagnan could not help perceiving that something more than usual was passing in the mind of his lackey and said, ‘Well, Monsieur Planchet, what is the matter with us now?’
只要他在城里，普朗切特就一直保持着他强加给自己的尊重距离。但当道路开始变得更加孤独和黑暗时，他轻轻地靠近，这样当他们进入布洛涅森林时，他发现自己很自然地与他的主人并肩骑行。事实上，我们不能掩饰高大树木的摇晃和黑暗林下月亮的倒影给他带来了严重的不安。达达尼昂不禁察觉到他的跟班脑子里正在浮现出比平常更多的东西，于是说道：“那么，普朗谢先生，我们现在出了什么问题吗？”

‘Don’t you think, monsieur, that woods are like churches?’
“先生，您不认为树林就像教堂吗？”

‘How so, Planchet?’
“怎么会呢，普兰切特？”

‘Because we dare not speak aloud in one or the other.’
“因为我们不敢大声说出其中一种。”

‘But why did you not dare to speak aloud, Planchet—because you are afraid?’
“但是普朗切特，你为什么不敢大声说话——因为你害怕？”

‘Afraid of being heard? Yes, monsieur.’
‘怕被人听见？是的，先生。

‘Afraid of being heard! Why, there is nothing improper in our conversation, my dear Planchet, and no one could find fault with it.’
‘怕被人听见！哎呀，我们的谈话没有任何不妥之处，我亲爱的普兰切特，没有人能挑剔它。

‘Ah, monsieur!’ replied Planchet, recurring to his besetting idea, ‘that Monsieur Bonacieux has something vicious in his eyebrows, and something very unpleasant in the play of his lips.’
“啊，先生！”普朗谢回答道，又想起了他那令人困扰的想法，“博纳希厄先生的眉毛里有一种邪恶的东西，他的嘴唇上有一种非常令人不快的东西。”

‘What the devil makes you think of Bonacieux?’
“你到底怎么想到博纳希厄的？”

‘Monsieur, we think of what we can, and not of what we will.’
“先生，我们考虑的是我们能做什么，而不是我们会做什么。”

‘Because you are a coward, Planchet.’
“因为你是个胆小鬼，普朗切特。”

‘Monsieur, we must not confound prudence with cowardice; prudence is a virtue.’
“先生，我们不能将谨慎与怯懦混为一谈；谨慎是一种美德。”

‘And you are very virtuous, are you not, Planchet?’
“你非常有道德，不是吗，普兰切特？”

‘Monsieur, is not that the barrel of a musket which glitters yonder? Had we not better lower our heads?’
“先生，那边闪闪发光的不是火枪的枪管吗？我们最好低下头吗？

‘In truth,’ murmured d’Artagnan, to whom M. de Treville’s recommendation recurred, ‘this animal will end by making me afraid.’ And he put his horse into a trot.
“说实话，”达达尼昂低声说道，德特雷维尔先生向他重复了一遍建议，“这只动物最终会让我感到害怕。”说着他策马小跑。

Planchet followed the movements of his master as if he had been his shadow, and was soon trotting by his side.
普兰切特就像是他的影子一样，跟着主人的动作，很快就小跑到了他的身边。

‘Are we going to continue this pace all night?’ asked Planchet.
“我们要整夜继续这样的节奏吗？”普兰切特问。

‘No; you are at your journey’s end.’
'不;你的旅程已经结束了。”

‘How, monsieur! And you?’
‘怎么样，先生！你呢？'

‘I am going a few steps farther.’
“我还要再走几步。”

‘And Monsieur leaves me here alone?’
“先生就把我一个人留在这里吗？”

‘You are afraid, Planchet?’
“你害怕吗，普兰切特？”

‘No; I only beg leave to observe to Monsieur that the night will be very cold, that chills bring on rheumatism, and that a lackey who has the rheumatism makes but a poor servant, particularly to a master as active as Monsieur.’
'不;我只是请假向先生说，夜晚会很冷，寒冷会导致风湿病，一个患有风湿病的仆人只会成为一个可怜的仆人，特别是对于像先生这样活跃的主人来说。

‘Well, if you are cold, Planchet, you can go into one of those cabarets that you see yonder, and be in waiting for me at the door by six o’clock in the morning.’
“好吧，如果你觉得冷，普朗切特，你可以去你那边看到的一家歌舞厅，早上六点钟之前在门口等我。”

‘Monsieur, I have eaten and drunk respectfully the crown you gave me this morning, so that I have not a sou left in case I should be cold.’
“先生，今天早上我已经恭敬地吃了喝了您给我的皇冠，这样我就没有剩下一苏了，以防感冒。”

‘Here’s half a pistole. Tomorrow morning.’
“这是半支手枪。明天早上。'

D’Artagnan sprang from his horse, threw the bridle to Planchet, and departed at a quick pace, folding his cloak around him.
达达尼昂从马背上跳下来，把缰绳丢给普朗谢特，然后快步离开，把斗篷裹在身上。

‘Good Lord, how cold I am!’ cried Planchet, as soon as he had lost sight of his master; and in such haste was he to warm himself that he went straight to a house set out with all the attributes of a suburban tavern, and knocked at the door.
“天啊，我好冷啊！”普朗切特一看不见他的主人就喊道。他急于取暖，径直走到一栋具备郊区小酒馆所有特征的房子前，敲了敲门。

In the meantime d’Artagnan, who had plunged into a bypath, continued his route and reached St. Cloud; but instead of following the main street he turned behind the chateau, reached a sort of retired lane, and found himself soon in front of the pavilion named. It was situated in a very private spot. A high wall, at the angle of which was the pavilion, ran along one side of this lane, and on the other was a little garden connected with a poor cottage which was protected by a hedge from passers-by.
与此同时，达达尼昂陷入了一条小路，继续前行，到达了圣克劳德。但他没有沿着主街走，而是在城堡后面拐了个弯，来到了一条僻静的小巷，很快就发现自己来到了那个被命名的亭子前面。它位于一个非常私人的地方。这条小巷的一侧是一堵高墙，墙角就是亭子，另一侧是一个小花园，花园里有一座简陋的小屋，小屋被树篱保护着，不让行人进入。

He gained the place appointed, and as no signal had been given him by which to announce his presence, he waited.
他到达了指定的地点，但由于没有发出任何信号来宣布他的到来，所以他等待着。

Not the least noise was to be heard; it might be imagined that he was a hundred miles from the capital. D’Artagnan leaned against the hedge, after having cast a glance behind it. Beyond that hedge, that garden, and that cottage, a dark mist enveloped with its folds that immensity where Paris slept—a vast void from which glittered a few luminous points, the funeral stars of that hell!
听不到丝毫噪音。可以想象，他距首都有一百英里。达达尼昂朝树篱后面看了一眼，靠在树篱上。越过那道树篱、那座花园、那间小屋，一片黑雾笼罩着巴黎沉睡的那片无边无际的褶皱——一片巨大的虚空，从中闪烁着几个发光的点，那是地狱的葬礼之星！

But for d’Artagnan all aspects were clothed happily, all ideas wore a smile, all shades were diaphanous. The appointed hour was about to strike. In fact, at the end of a few minutes the belfry of St. Cloud let fall slowly ten strokes from its sonorous jaws. There was something melancholy in this brazen voice pouring out its lamentations in the middle of the night; but each of those strokes, which made up the expected hour, vibrated harmoniously to the heart of the young man.
但对于达达尼昂来说，所有方面都穿着愉快，所有想法都面带微笑，所有色调都是透明的。约定的时间即将敲响。事实上，几分钟后，圣克劳德钟楼从其响亮的下颚处缓缓落下十下。这厚颜无耻的声音在半夜里倾诉着哀伤，带着某种忧郁。但每一次敲击，构成了预期的时间，都在年轻人的心中和谐地震动。

His eyes were fixed upon the little pavilion situated at the angle of the wall, of which all the windows were closed with shutters, except one on the first story. Through this window shone a mild light which silvered the foliage of two or three linden trees which formed a group outside the park. There could be no doubt that behind this little window, which threw forth such friendly beams, the pretty Mme. Bonacieux expected him.
他的目光注视着墙角的那个小亭子，除了一楼的窗户外，所有的窗户都用百叶窗关着。柔和的光线透过窗户射进来，把公园外两三棵椴树的叶子镀成了银色。毫无疑问，在这扇射出如此友好的光束的小窗户后面，是美丽的夫人。博纳希厄期待着他。

Wrapped in this sweet idea, d’Artagnan waited half an hour without the least impatience, his eyes fixed upon that charming little abode of which he could perceive a part of the ceiling with its gilded moldings, attesting the elegance of the rest of the apartment.
达达尼昂抱着这个美好的想法，等了半个小时，没有丝毫不耐烦，他的眼睛盯着那个迷人的小住所，他可以看到天花板的一部分镀金装饰，证明了公寓其余部分的优雅。 。

The belfry of St. Cloud sounded half past ten.
圣克劳德钟楼的钟声敲响了十点半。

This time, without knowing why, d’Artagnan felt a cold shiver run through his veins. Perhaps the cold began to affect him, and he took a perfectly physical sensation for a moral impression.
这一次，达达尼昂不知为何感到血管里一阵冷颤。也许寒冷开始影响他，他把完美的身体感觉当作道德印象。

Then the idea seized him that he had read incorrectly, and that the appointment was for eleven o’clock. He drew near to the window, and placing himself so that a ray of light should fall upon the letter as he held it, he drew it from his pocket and read it again; but he had not been mistaken, the appointment was for ten o’clock. He went and resumed his post, beginning to be rather uneasy at this silence and this solitude.
然后他突然意识到自己看错了，约会的时间是十一点。他靠近窗户，让一束光线照射到他拿着的信上，然后他从口袋里掏出信，又读了一遍。但他没有看错，约定的时间是十点钟。他回去继续工作，开始对这种沉默和孤独感到不安。

Eleven o’clock sounded.
十一点钟声响起。

D’Artagnan began now really to fear that something had happened to Mme. Bonacieux. He clapped his hands three times—the ordinary signal of lovers; but nobody replied to him, not even an echo.
达达尼昂现在开始真正担心夫人出了什么事。博纳西厄。他拍了三下手——这是恋人的常见信号；但没有人回应他，甚至连回声也没有。

He then thought, with a touch of vexation, that perhaps the young woman had fallen asleep while waiting for him. He approached the wall, and tried to climb it; but the wall had been recently pointed, and d’Artagnan could get no hold.
他转而有些苦恼地想，也许这个年轻女子在等他的时候睡着了。他走近墙壁，试图爬上去，但没有成功。但墙最近被尖了，达达尼昂无法抓住。

At that moment he thought of the trees, upon whose leaves the light still shone; and as one of them drooped over the road, he thought that from its branches he might get a glimpse of the interior of the pavilion.
就在那一刻，他想到了那些树，它们的叶子上仍然闪耀着光芒；当其中一根垂落在路上时，他想从树枝上可以瞥见亭子的内部。

The tree was easy to climb. Besides, d’Artagnan was but twenty years old, and consequently had not yet forgotten his schoolboy habits. In an instant he was among the branches, and his keen eyes plunged through the transparent panes into the interior of the pavilion.
这棵树很容易爬。此外，达达尼昂才二十岁，因此还没有忘记他的学生习惯。瞬间他就到了树枝之中，敏锐的目光透过透明的玻璃，探入了亭子的内部。

It was a strange thing, and one which made d’Artagnan tremble from the sole of his foot to the roots of his hair, to find that this soft light, this calm lamp, enlightened a scene of fearful disorder. One of the windows was broken, the door of the chamber had been beaten in and hung, split in two, on its hinges. A table, which had been covered with an elegant supper, was overturned. The decanters broken in pieces, and the fruits crushed, strewed the floor. Everything in the apartment gave evidence of a violent and desperate struggle. D’Artagnan even fancied he could recognize amid this strange disorder, fragments of garments, and some bloody spots staining the cloth and the curtains. He hastened to descend into the street, with a frightful beating at his heart; he wished to see if he could find other traces of violence.
这是一件奇怪的事情，让达达尼昂从脚底到发根都在颤抖，发现这柔和的光线，这盏平静的灯，照亮了一幅可怕的混乱景象。其中一扇窗户被打破，房间的门被撞开并挂在铰链上，分成两半。一张桌子上摆满了精美的晚餐，被掀翻了。醒酒器碎成碎片，水果也被压碎，散落在地板上。公寓里的一切都证明了一场激烈而绝望的斗争。达达尼昂甚至觉得自己能在这奇怪的混乱中认出衣服的碎片，以及沾染在布料和窗帘上的血迹。他急忙跑到街上，心里一阵可怕的跳动。他想看看能否找到其他暴力痕迹。

The little soft light shone on in the calmness of the night. d’Artagnan then perceived a thing that he had not before remarked—for nothing had led him to the examination—that the ground, trampled here and hoofmarked there, presented confused traces of men and horses. Besides, the wheels of a carriage, which appeared to have come from Paris, had made a deep impression in the soft earth, which did not extend beyond the pavilion, but turned again toward Paris.
宁静的夜色中，闪烁着小小的柔和的光芒。达达尼昂随后意识到了一件他以前没有注意到的事情——因为没有任何事情引导他进行检查——地面上，这里被践踏，那里有蹄印，呈现出人和马的混乱痕迹。此外，一辆似乎来自巴黎的马车车轮在松软的大地上留下了深刻的印记，大地并没有延伸到展馆之外，而是再次转向了巴黎。

At length d’Artagnan, in pursuing his researches, found near the wall a woman’s torn glove. This glove, wherever it had not touched the muddy ground, was of irreproachable odor. It was one of those perfumed gloves that lovers like to snatch from a pretty hand.
最后，达达尼昂在进行研究时，在墙边发现了一只女人撕破的手套。这副手套，只要没有接触到泥泞的地面，就会散发出无可挑剔的气味。这是恋人们喜欢从漂亮的手上抢走的香水手套之一。

As d’Artagnan pursued his investigations, a more abundant and more icy sweat rolled in large drops from his forehead; his heart was oppressed by a horrible anguish; his respiration was broken and short. And yet he said, to reassure himself, that this pavilion perhaps had nothing in common with Mme. Bonacieux; that the young woman had made an appointment with him before the pavilion, and not in the pavilion; that she might have been detained in Paris by her duties, or perhaps by the jealousy of her husband.
当达达尼昂继续他的调查时，他的额头上流下了更多、更冰冷的汗珠。他的心被一种可怕的痛苦所压抑。他的呼吸断断续续、短促。然而，为了让自己放心，他说这个亭子也许与夫人没有任何共同之处。博纳西厄；那年轻女子是在亭子前与他约好的，而不是在亭子里。她可能因为自己的职责而被拘留在巴黎，也可能是因为她丈夫的嫉妒。

But all these reasons were combated, destroyed, overthrown, by that feeling of intimate pain which, on certain occasions, takes possession of our being, and cries to us so as to be understood unmistakably that some great misfortune is hanging over us.
但所有这些原因都被那种亲密的痛苦感所打击、摧毁、推翻，这种感觉在某些情况下占据了我们的存在，并向我们哭泣，以便让我们明白无误地了解到某种巨大的不幸正笼罩着我们。

Then d’Artagnan became almost wild. He ran along the high road, took the path he had before taken, and reaching the ferry, interrogated the boatman.
然后达达尼昂几乎变得疯狂。他顺着大路跑去，顺着原来走过的路，来到了渡口，审问了船夫。

About seven o’clock in the evening, the boatman had taken over a young woman, wrapped in a black mantle, who appeared to be very anxious not to be recognized; but entirely on account of her precautions, the boatman had paid more attention to her and discovered that she was young and pretty.
晚上七点左右，船夫接住了一位裹着黑斗篷的年轻女子，她似乎很着急不被认出来。但正是因为她的谨慎，船家才更加留意她，发现她年轻漂亮。

There were then, as now, a crowd of young and pretty women who came to St. Cloud, and who had reasons for not being seen, and yet d’Artagnan did not for an instant doubt that it was Mme. Bonacieux whom the boatman had noticed.
那时和现在一样，有一群年轻漂亮的妇女来到圣克劳德，她们有理由不被人看见，但达达尼昂毫不怀疑那是夫人。船夫注意到了博纳西厄。

D’Artagnan took advantage of the lamp which burned in the cabin of the ferryman to read the billet of Mme. Bonacieux once again, and satisfy himself that he had not been mistaken, that the appointment was at St. Cloud and not elsewhere, before the D’Estrees’s pavilion and not in another street. Everything conspired to prove to d’Artagnan that his presentiments had not deceived him, and that a great misfortune had happened.
达达尼昂利用摆渡人舱里点着的灯读着夫人的住所。博纳希厄再次确认自己没有弄错，约会地点是在圣克劳德，而不是其他地方，在德斯特里家的凉亭前，而不是在另一条街上。一切都在向达达尼昂证明，他的预感并没有欺骗他，一场巨大的不幸已经发生了。

He again ran back to the chateau. It appeared to him that something might have happened at the pavilion in his absence, and that fresh information awaited him. The lane was still deserted, and the same calm soft light shone through the window.
他再次跑回城堡。他觉得，他不在的时候，凉亭里可能发生了什么事，而新的消息正在等待着他。巷子里依然空无一人，窗外依然透着平静柔和的光线。

D’Artagnan then thought of that cottage, silent and obscure, which had no doubt seen all, and could tell its tale. The gate of the enclosure was shut; but he leaped over the hedge, and in spite of the barking of a chained-up dog, went up to the cabin.
达达尼昂随即想到了那座小屋，寂静而晦涩，它无疑已经看到了一切，并且可以讲述它的故事。围场的门是关着的。但他还是跳过了树篱，不顾一只拴着链子的狗的吠叫声，还是爬上了小屋。

No one answered to his first knocking. A silence of death reigned in the cabin as in the pavilion; but as the cabin was his last resource, he knocked again.
他第一次敲门，没有人回应。船舱里和凉亭里一样一片死寂。但由于小屋是他最后的资源，他又敲了敲门。

It soon appeared to him that he heard a slight noise within—a timid noise which seemed to tremble lest it should be heard.
很快他就听见里面有轻微的声音——一种胆怯的声音，似乎在颤抖，唯恐被人听见。

Then d’Artagnan ceased knocking, and prayed with an accent so full of anxiety and promises, terror and cajolery, that his voice was of a nature to reassure the most fearful. At length an old, worm-eaten shutter was opened, or rather pushed ajar, but closed again as soon as the light from a miserable lamp which burned in the corner had shone upon the baldric, sword belt, and pistol pommels of d’Artagnan. Nevertheless, rapid as the movement had been, d’Artagnan had had time to get a glimpse of the head of an old man.
然后达达尼昂停止敲门，用充满焦虑和承诺、恐惧和哄骗的口音祈祷，他的声音自然可以安抚最害怕的人。最后，一扇被虫蛀的旧百叶窗被打开了，或者更确切地说被推开，但当角落里燃烧的一盏可怜的灯发出的光照射到达达尼昂的肩章、剑带和手枪鞍头上时，它又关闭了。 。尽管如此，尽管动作很快，达达尼昂还是有时间瞥见一个老人的头。

‘In the name of heaven!’ cried he, ‘listen to me; I have been waiting for someone who has not come. I am dying with anxiety. Has anything particular happened in the neighborhood? Speak!’
“以天堂的名义！”他喊道，“听我说；我一直在等一个还没来的人。我快要焦虑死了。附近有发生什么特别的事情吗？说话！'

The window was again opened slowly, and the same face appeared, only it was now still more pale than before.
窗户再次缓缓打开，同样的脸出现了，只不过比之前更加苍白。

D’Artagnan related his story simply, with the omission of names. He told how he had a rendezvous with a young woman before that pavilion, and how, not seeing her come, he had climbed the linden tree, and by the light of the lamp had seen the disorder of the chamber.
达达尼昂简单地讲述了他的故事，省略了名字。他讲述了他在亭前与一位年轻女子的会合，并没有看到她来，他如何爬上了椴树，借着灯火看到了房间里的混乱。

The old man listened attentively, making a sign only that it was all so; and then, when d’Artagnan had ended, he shook his head with an air that announced nothing good.
老人聚精会神地听着，只是做了个手势表示事情确实如此。达达尼昂说完后，他摇摇头，神情中透露出没有什么好消息。

‘What do you mean?’ cried d’Artagnan. ‘In the name of heaven, explain yourself!’
“你这是什么意思？”达达尼昂喊道。 “以老天之名，请解释一下！”

‘Oh! Monsieur,’ said the old man, ‘ask me nothing; for if I dared tell you what I have seen, certainly no good would befall me.’
'哦！先生，”老人说，“别问我；因为如果我敢告诉你我所看到的，我肯定不会有什么好处。

‘You have, then, seen something?’ replied d’Artagnan. ‘In that case, in the name of heaven,’ continued he, throwing him a pistole, ‘tell me what you have seen, and I will pledge you the word of a gentleman that not one of your words shall escape from my heart.’
“那么，你看到了什么吗？”达达尼昂回答道。 “既然如此，以老天之名，”他扔给他一把手枪，继续说道，“告诉我你所看到的，我将以一位绅士的誓言向你保证，你所说的任何一句话都不会从我的心里逃脱。” '

The old man read so much truth and so much grief in the face of the young man that he made him a sign to listen, and repeated in a low voice: ‘It was scarcely nine o’clock when I heard a noise in the street, and was wondering what it could be, when on coming to my door, I found that somebody was endeavoring to open it. As I am very poor and am not afraid of being robbed, I went and opened the gate and saw three men at a few paces from it. In the shadow was a carriage with two horses, and some saddlehorses. These horses evidently belonged to the three men, who were dressed as cavaliers. ‘Ah, my worthy gentlemen,’ cried I, ‘what do you want?’ ‘You must have a ladder?’ said he who appeared to be the leader of the party. ‘Yes, monsieur, the one with which I gather my fruit.’ ‘Lend it to us, and go into your house again; there is a crown for the annoyance we have caused you. Only remember this—if you speak a word of what you may see or what you may hear (for you will look and you will listen, I am quite sure, however we may threaten you), you are lost.’ At these words he threw me a crown, which I picked up, and he took the ladder. After shutting the gate behind them, I pretended to return to the house, but I immediately went out a back door, and stealing along in the shade of the hedge, I gained yonder clump of elder, from which I could hear and see everything. The three men brought the carriage up quietly, and took out of it a little man, stout, short, elderly, and commonly dressed in clothes of a dark color, who ascended the ladder very carefully, looked suspiciously in at the window of the pavilion, came down as quietly as he had gone up, and whispered, ‘It is she!’ Immediately, he who had spoken to me approached the door of the pavilion, opened it with a key he had in his hand, closed the door and disappeared, while at the same time the other two men ascended the ladder. The little old man remained at the coach door; the coachman took care of his horses, the lackey held the saddlehorses. All at once great cries resounded in the pavilion, and a woman came to the window, and opened it, as if to throw herself out of it; but as soon as she perceived the other two men, she fell back and they went into the chamber. Then I saw no more; but I heard the noise of breaking furniture. The woman screamed, and cried for help; but her cries were soon stifled. Two of the men appeared, bearing the woman in their arms, and carried her to the carriage, into which the little old man got after her. The leader closed the window, came out an instant after by the door, and satisfied himself that the woman was in the carriage. His two companions were already on horseback. He sprang into his saddle; the lackey took his place by the coachman; the carriage went off at a quick pace, escorted by the three horsemen, and all was over. From that moment I have neither seen nor heard anything.’
老人在年轻人的脸上读出了那么多的真相和那么多的悲伤，他示意他听，然后低声重复道：“当时还不到九点，我就听到街上有吵闹声。” ，并想知道这可能是什么，当我来到我家门口时，发现有人正在努力打开它。由于我很穷，也不怕被抢，我就去打开大门，看到离门几步远的地方有三个人。阴影里有一辆马车，车上有两匹马，还有几匹鞍马。这些马显然是这三个穿着骑士装束的人的。 “啊，我可敬的先生们，”我喊道，“你们想要什么？” “你们必须有一个梯子吗？”那个看起来是队伍领袖的人说道。 “是的，先生，就是我用来采摘水果的那个。”我们给你带来的烦恼有一个皇冠。只要记住这一点——如果你说出你可能看到或听到的一句话（因为你会看，你会听，我很确定，无论我们如何威胁你），你都会迷失。”听到这些话，他扔给我一顶王冠，我捡起它，他拿着梯子。关上门后，我假装回屋，但立刻从后门出去，偷偷地在树篱的阴凉处走着，到了那边的接骨木丛，从那里我能听到和看到一切。三人悄悄将马车拉了上来，从车里取出一个身材矮小，身材矮小，年迈，衣着一般深色的小个子男子，小心翼翼地登上梯子，狐疑地朝亭子的窗子里望去。 ，就像他上去时一样安静地下来，低声说道：“是她！”’随即，跟我说话的那个人就走到了亭门前，用手里的钥匙打开了门，关上门就消失了，同时另外两个人也上了梯子。小老头留在车厢门口。车夫看管马匹，仆人牵着鞍马。突然，亭子里响起了巨大的叫喊声，一个女人来到窗前，打开窗户，好像要跳出去一样。但当她看到另外两个人时，她向后退了一步，他们走进了房间。然后我就再也看不见了；但我听到家具破碎的声音。女人尖叫着呼救。但她的哭声很快就被压制住了。两个男人出现，将女人抱到马车上，小老头跟着上了车。领头的人关上车窗，立刻从门边出来，确信那个女人就在车厢里。他的两个同伴已经骑在马背上了。他跳上马鞍；仆人接替了车夫的位置。马车在三名骑兵的护送下疾驰而去，一切都结束了。从那一刻起，我什么也没看到，也没有听到。’

D’Artagnan, entirely overcome by this terrible story, remained motionless and mute, while all the demons of anger and jealousy were howling in his heart.
达达尼昂完全被这个可怕的故事所征服，一动不动，一声不吭，愤怒和嫉妒的恶魔在他心中咆哮。

‘But, my good gentleman,’ resumed the old man, upon whom this mute despair certainly produced a greater effect than cries and tears would have done, ‘do not take on so; they did not kill her, and that’s a comfort.’
“但是，我的好先生，”老人继续说道，这种无声的绝望无疑比哭泣和泪水对他产生了更大的影响，“别这么做；别这样；别这样。”他们没有杀她，这是一种安慰。

‘Can you guess,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘who was the man who headed this infernal expedition?’
“你能猜到吗？”达达尼昂说道，“领导这支地狱探险队的人是谁？”

‘I don’t know him.’
“我不认识他。”

‘But as you spoke to him you must have seen him.’
“但当你跟他说话时，你一定已经看到他了。”

‘Oh, it’s a description you want?’
“哦，这是你想要的描述吗？”

‘Exactly so.’
'正是如此。'

‘A tall, dark man, with black mustaches, dark eyes, and the air of a gentleman.’
“一个身材高大、皮肤黝黑的男人，黑胡子、黑眼睛，一派绅士风度。”

‘That’s the man!’ cried d’Artagnan, ‘again he, forever he! He is my demon, apparently. And the other?’
“就是这个人！”达达尼昂喊道，“又是他，永远是他！”显然，他是我的恶魔。和另一个？'

‘Which?’
'哪个？'

‘The short one.’
“短的那个。”

‘Oh, he was not a gentleman, I’ll answer for it; besides, he did not wear a sword, and the others treated him with small consideration.’
“哦，他不是一位绅士，我来负责；而且，他没有佩剑，其他人都对他不重视。

‘Some lackey,’ murmured d’Artagnan. ‘Poor woman, poor woman, what have they done with you?’
“某个走狗，”达达尼昂低声说道。 “可怜的女人，可怜的女人，他们对你做了什么？”

‘You have promised to be secret, my good monsieur?’ said the old man.
“您答应保守秘密了吗，我的好先生？”老人说道。

‘And I renew my promise. Be easy, I am a gentleman. A gentleman has but his word, and I have given you mine.’
‘我重申我的承诺。放轻松，我是个绅士。君子言出必行，我也给了你我的诺言。”

With a heavy heart, d’Artagnan again bent his way toward the ferry. Sometimes he hoped it could not be Mme. Bonacieux, and that he should find her next day at the Louvre; sometimes he feared she had had an intrigue with another, who, in a jealous fit, had surprised her and carried her off. His mind was torn by doubt, grief, and despair.
达达尼昂怀着沉重的心情，再次向渡口走去。有时他希望不是夫人。博纳西厄，他第二天应该在卢浮宫找到她；有时他担心她与另一个人有阴谋，而那个人嫉妒地给了她一个惊喜，把她带走了。他的心被怀疑、悲伤和绝望撕裂。

‘Oh, if I had my three friends here,’ cried he, ‘I should have, at least, some hopes of finding her; but who knows what has become of them?’
“哦，如果我的三个朋友在这里，”他喊道，“至少我应该有找到她的希望；但是，如果我能找到她，那我一定会找到她。”但谁知道他们怎么样了呢？

It was past midnight; the next thing was to find Planchet. d’Artagnan went successively into all the cabarets in which there was a light, but could not find Planchet in any of them.
已经过了午夜了。接下来的事情就是找到 Planchet。达达尼昂先后走进了所有有灯光的歌舞厅，但都没有找到普兰谢特。

At the sixth he began to reflect that the search was rather dubious. D’Artagnan had appointed six o’clock in the morning for his lackey, and wherever he might be, he was right.
第六天，他开始反思这次搜寻相当可疑。达达尼昂为他的仆人指定了早上六点，无论他在哪里，他都是对的。

Besides, it came into the young man’s mind that by remaining in the environs of the spot on which this sad event had passed, he would, perhaps, have some light thrown upon the mysterious affair. At the sixth cabaret, then, as we said, d’Artagnan stopped, asked for a bottle of wine of the best quality, and placing himself in the darkest corner of the room, determined thus to wait till daylight; but this time again his hopes were disappointed, and although he listened with all his ears, he heard nothing, amid the oaths, coarse jokes, and abuse which passed between the laborers, servants, and carters who comprised the honorable society of which he formed a part, which could put him upon the least track of her who had been stolen from him. He was compelled, then, after having swallowed the contents of his bottle, to pass the time as well as to evade suspicion, to fall into the easiest position in his corner and to sleep, whether well or ill. D’Artagnan, be it remembered, was only twenty years old, and at that age sleep has its imprescriptible rights which it imperiously insists upon, even with the saddest hearts.
此外，年轻人想到，如果留在这起悲惨事件发生地点的周围，也许他能对这起神秘事件有所了解。然后，正如我们所说，在第六场歌舞表演中，达达尼昂停了下来，要了一瓶最好的葡萄酒，然后把自己放在房间最黑暗的角落里，决定等到天亮。但这一次，他的希望再次落空，尽管他用尽全力倾听，但他什么也没听到，在他所组建的光荣社会中，工人、仆人和车夫之间充斥着咒骂、粗俗的笑话和谩骂。一个可以让他对被从他身边偷走的她有丝毫踪迹的部分。然后，在吞下瓶子里的东西之后，他被迫在打发时间的同时避免怀疑，在他的角落里找到最舒服的姿势睡觉，无论健康还是生病。记住，达达尼昂只有二十岁，在那个年纪，睡眠有其不可侵犯的权利，即使内心最悲伤，睡眠也必须专横地坚持。

Toward six o’clock d’Artagnan awoke with that uncomfortable feeling which generally accompanies the break of day after a bad night. He was not long in making his toilet. He examined himself to see if advantage had been taken of his sleep, and having found his diamond ring on his finger, his purse in his pocket, and his pistols in his belt, he rose, paid for his bottle, and went out to try if he could have any better luck in his search after his lackey than he had had the night before. The first thing he perceived through the damp gray mist was honest Planchet, who, with the two horses in hand, awaited him at the door of a little blind cabaret, before which d’Artagnan had passed without even a suspicion of its existence.
六点左右，达达尼昂带着一种不舒服的感觉醒来，这种感觉通常伴随着一个糟糕的夜晚之后的黎明。他没多久就开始做厕所了。他检查了自己，看看是否有人利用了他的睡眠，然后发现手指上戴着钻戒，口袋里有钱包，腰带上有手枪，他站起来，付了酒钱，然后出去尝试。如果他在寻找他的走狗时能有比前一天晚上更好的运气就好了。透过潮湿的灰色雾气，他首先看到的是诚实的普朗谢特，他手里牵着两匹马，在一家小盲人歌舞表演的门口等他，达达尼昂从这家歌舞表演前经过，甚至没有怀疑它的存在。

25 PORTHOS
25 波托斯

Instead of returning directly home, d’Artagnan alighted at the door of M. de Treville, and ran quickly up the stairs. This time he had decided to relate all that had passed. M. de Treville would doubtless give him good advice as to the whole affair. Besides, as M. de Treville saw the queen almost daily, he might be able to draw from her Majesty some intelligence of the poor young woman, whom they were doubtless making pay very dearly for her devotedness to her mistress.
达达尼昂没有直接回家，而是在德特雷维尔先生的门口下了车，然后快步跑上楼梯。这一次他决定将所发生的一切讲述出来。德特雷维尔先生无疑会给他关于整个事件的好建议。此外，德·特雷维尔先生几乎每天都会见到王后，他也许能从女王陛下那里了解到这位可怜的年轻女子的一些情报，他们无疑正在为她对情妇的忠诚付出惨重的代价。

M. de Treville listened to the young man’s account with a seriousness which proved that he saw something else in this adventure besides a love affair. When d’Artagnan had finished, he said, ‘Hum! All this savors of his Eminence, a league off.’
德·特雷维尔先生认真地听着年轻人的讲述，这证明他在这次冒险中除了爱情之外还看到了别的东西。达达尼昂说完后，说道：“哼！所有这一切都体现了他的尊贵，相距甚远。

‘But what is to be done?’ said d’Artagnan.
“但是该怎么办呢？”达达尼昂说。

‘Nothing, absolutely nothing, at present, but quitting Paris, as I told you, as soon as possible. I will see the queen; I will relate to her the details of the disappearance of this poor woman, of which she is no doubt ignorant. These details will guide her on her part, and on your return, I shall perhaps have some good news to tell you. Rely on me.’
“目前没什么，绝对没什么，只是尽快离开巴黎，就像我告诉过你的那样。我会见到女王；我将向她讲述这个可怜的女人失踪的细节，而她无疑对此一无所知。这些细节将为她提供指导，当你回来时，我也许会告诉你一些好消息。靠我吧。'

D’Artagnan knew that, although a Gascon, M. de Treville was not in the habit of making promises, and that when by chance he did promise, he more than kept his word. He bowed to him, then, full of gratitude for the past and for the future; and the worthy captain, who on his side felt a lively interest in this young man, so brave and so resolute, pressed his hand kindly, wishing him a pleasant journey.
达达尼昂知道，虽然德·特雷维尔先生是加斯科涅人，但他并不习惯做出承诺，而当他偶然做出承诺时，他会严格遵守诺言。然后，他向他鞠了一躬，对过去和未来充满了感激之情。那位可敬的船长对这个如此勇敢、如此坚决的年轻人产生了浓厚的兴趣，亲切地握着他的手，祝他旅途愉快。

Determined to put the advice of M. de Treville in practice instantly, d’Artagnan directed his course toward the Rue des Fossoyeurs, in order to superintend the packing of his valise. On approaching the house, he perceived M. Bonacieux in morning costume, standing at his threshold. All that the prudent Planchet had said to him the preceding evening about the sinister character of the old man recurred to the mind of d’Artagnan, who looked at him with more attention than he had done before. In fact, in addition to that yellow, sickly paleness which indicates the insinuation of the bile in the blood, and which might, besides, be accidental, d’Artagnan remarked something perfidiously significant in the play of the wrinkled features of his countenance. A rogue does not laugh in the same way that an honest man does; a hypocrite does not shed the tears of a man of good faith. All falsehood is a mask; and however well made the mask may be, with a little attention we may always succeed in distinguishing it from the true face.
达达尼昂决心立即将德·特雷维尔先生的建议付诸实践，他径直朝福索耶街走去，以便监督他的行李箱的收拾。走近房子时，他看见博纳西厄先生穿着晨装，站在门口。前一天晚上，谨慎的普朗歇对他说的关于老人阴险性格的一切，都在达达尼昂的脑海中浮现，他比以前更加专注地看着他。事实上，除了黄色、病态的苍白表明血液中含有胆汁，而且这可能是偶然的，达达尼昂还注意到他脸上的皱纹特征有一些背信弃义的重要意义。流氓不会像诚实人那样笑；伪善者不会流真诚人的眼泪。所有的谎言都是面具；无论面具制作得多么精良，只要稍加注意，我们总能成功地将其与真面目区分开来。

It appeared, then, to d’Artagnan that M. Bonacieux wore a mask, and likewise that that mask was most disagreeable to look upon. In consequence of this feeling of repugnance, he was about to pass without speaking to him, but, as he had done the day before, M. Bonacieux accosted him.
那么，在达达尼昂看来，博纳希厄先生戴着面具，同样，那张面具也是最难看的。由于这种反感情绪，他正要走过去，不跟他说话，但是，正如他前一天所做的那样，博纳修克斯先生向他搭话。

‘Well, young man,’ said he, ‘we appear to pass rather gay nights! Seven o’clock in the morning! PESTE! You seem to reverse ordinary customs, and come home at the hour when other people are going out.’
“嗯，年轻人，”他说，“看来我们度过了相当愉快的夜晚！”早上七点！害虫！你似乎一反常态，在别人外出的时间回家。”

‘No one can reproach you for anything of the kind, Monsieur Bonacieux,’ said the young man; ‘you are a model for regular people. It is true that when a man possesses a young and pretty wife, he has no need to seek happiness elsewhere. Happiness comes to meet him, does it not, Monsieur Bonacieux?’
“没有人会因为这种事而责备你，博纳西厄先生，”年轻人说道。 ‘你是普通人的榜样。确实，当一个男人拥有了一个年轻漂亮的妻子时，他就不需要到别处去寻找幸福了。幸福会来迎接他，不是吗，博纳西厄先生？

Bonacieux became as pale as death, and grinned a ghastly smile.
博纳希厄脸色变得苍白如死，露出阴森的笑容。

‘Ah, ah!’ said Bonacieux, ‘you are a jocular companion! But where the devil were you gladding last night, my young master? It does not appear to be very clean in the crossroads.’
“啊，啊！”博纳希厄说，“你真是个爱开玩笑的同伴！”但我的少爷，你昨晚究竟在哪里高兴呢？十字路口看起来不太干净。”

D’Artagnan glanced down at his boots, all covered with mud; but that same glance fell upon the shoes and stockings of the mercer, and it might have been said they had been dipped in the same mud heap. Both were stained with splashes of mud of the same appearance.
达达尼昂低头看了一眼自己的靴子，上面沾满了泥土。但同样的目光落在了布商的鞋子和袜子上，可以说它们已经浸在同一个泥堆里了。两者都沾满了外观相同的泥土。

Then a sudden idea crossed the mind of d’Artagnan. That little stout man, short and elderly, that sort of lackey, dressed in dark clothes, treated without ceremony by the men wearing swords who composed the escort, was Bonacieux himself. The husband had presided at the abduction of his wife.
达达尼昂的脑海中突然闪过一个念头。那个矮胖的男人，又矮又老，就是那种穿着深色衣服、受到护卫队佩剑男子不客气对待的仆人，就是博纳希厄本人。丈夫主持了对妻子的绑架。

A terrible inclination seized d’Artagnan to grasp the mercer by the throat and strangle him; but, as we have said, he was a very prudent youth, and he restrained himself. However, the revolution which appeared upon his countenance was so visible that Bonacieux was terrified at it, and he endeavored to draw back a step or two; but as he was standing before the half of the door which was shut, the obstacle compelled him to keep his place.
达达尼昂突然有一种可怕的冲动，他想掐住布商的喉咙，把他勒死。但是，正如我们所说，他是一个非常谨慎的年轻人，他很克制自己。然而，他脸上出现的变化是如此明显，博纳希厄对此感到恐惧，他努力后退一两步；但当他站在那扇关着的门前时，障碍物迫使他留在原地。

‘Ah, but you are joking, my worthy man!’ said d’Artagnan. It appears to me that if my boots need a sponge, your stockings and shoes stand in equal need of a brush. May you not have been philandering a little also, Monsieur Bonacieux? Oh, the devil! That’s unpardonable in a man of your age, and who besides, has such a pretty wife as yours.’
“啊，但你在开玩笑，我可敬的人！”达达尼昂说。在我看来，如果我的靴子需要海绵，那么你的袜子和鞋子也同样需要刷子。博纳西厄先生，您是否也曾有过一点花心？哦，魔鬼！这对你这个年纪的男人来说是不可原谅的，而且他还有你这么漂亮的妻子。”

‘Oh, Lord! no,’ said Bonacieux, ‘but yesterday I went to St. Mande to make some inquiries after a servant, as I cannot possibly do without one; and the roads were so bad that I brought back all this mud, which I have not yet had time to remove.’
'我的天！不，”博纳希厄说，“但是昨天我去了圣曼德，询问一名仆人的情况，因为没有仆人我是不可能做的。路况太糟糕了，我把这些泥土都带了回来，但我还没来得及清除它们。”

The place named by Bonacieux as that which had been the object of his journey was a fresh proof in support of the suspicions d’Artagnan had conceived. Bonacieux had named Mande because Mande was in an exactly opposite direction from St. Cloud. This probability afforded him his first consolation. If Bonacieux knew where his wife was, one might, by extreme means, force the mercer to open his teeth and let his secret escape. The question, then, was how to change this probability into a certainty.
博纳希厄所指定的旅行目的地的地方，是支持达达尼昂的怀疑的新证据。博纳希厄之所以命名为曼德，是因为曼德与圣克劳德的方向完全相反。这个可能性给了他第一个安慰。如果博纳希厄知道他的妻子在哪里，人们可能会通过极端手段迫使商人张开牙齿，让他的秘密泄露出去。那么问题是如何将这种可能性变成确定性。

‘Pardon, my dear Monsieur Bonacieux, if I don’t stand upon ceremony,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘but nothing makes one so thirsty as want of sleep. I am parched with thirst. Allow me to take a glass of water in your apartment; you know that is never refused among neighbors.’
“请原谅，我亲爱的博纳希厄先生，如果我不讲礼节的话，”达达尼昂说，“但是没有什么比睡眠更让人口渴的了。我口干舌燥。请允许我到您的公寓倒一杯水；你知道邻居之间从来不会拒绝这一点。

Without waiting for the permission of his host, d’Artagnan went quickly into the house, and cast a rapid glance at the bed. It had not been used. Bonacieux had not been abed. He had only been back an hour or two; he had accompanied his wife to the place of her confinement, or else at least to the first relay.
达达尼昂没有等主人的允许，就快步走进屋里，快速地扫了一眼床。它没有被使用过。博纳希厄还没有睡觉。他才回来一两个小时；他陪同妻子前往她的监禁地点，或者至少前往第一次接力。

‘Thanks, Monsieur Bonacieux,’ said d’Artagnan, emptying his glass, ‘that is all I wanted of you. I will now go up into my apartment. I will make Planchet brush my boots; and when he has done, I will, if you like, send him to you to brush your shoes.’
“谢谢，博纳希厄先生，”达达尼昂说着，喝光了杯子里的酒，“这就是我对你的全部要求。”我现在要上楼去我的公寓。我会让 Planchet 刷我的靴子；当他完成后，如果你愿意的话，我会派他到你那里去刷鞋。

He left the mercer quite astonished at his singular farewell, and asking himself if he had not been a little inconsiderate.
他离开布商时，对他的奇异告别感到非常惊讶，并自问自己是不是有点不体贴。

At the top of the stairs he found Planchet in a great fright.
在楼梯顶上，他发现普兰切特吓坏了。

‘Ah, monsieur!’ cried Planchet, as soon as he perceived his master, ‘here is more trouble. I thought you would never come in.’
“啊，先生！”普朗切特一看到他的主人就喊道，“还有更多的麻烦。”我以为你永远不会进来。

‘What’s the matter now, Planchet?’ demanded d’Artagnan.
“现在怎么了，普兰歇？”达达尼昂问道。

‘Oh! I give you a hundred, I give you a thousand times to guess, monsieur, the visit I received in your absence.’
'哦！先生，我给你一百次，我给你一千次，让你猜猜你缺席期间我受到的拜访。

‘When?’
'什么时候？'

‘About half an hour ago, while you were at Monsieur de Treville’s.’
“大约半小时前，当你在德特雷维尔先生家的时候。”

‘Who has been here? Come, speak.’
‘谁来过这里？来吧，说话。”

‘Monsieur de Cavois.’
“德·卡沃斯先生。”

‘Monsieur de Cavois?’
“德·卡沃斯先生？”

‘In person.’
'亲自。'

‘The captain of the cardinal’s Guards?’
“红衣主教卫队队长？”

‘Himself.’
“他自己。”

‘Did he come to arrest me?’
“他是来逮捕我的吗？”

‘I have no doubt that he did, monsieur, for all his wheedling manner.’
“我毫不怀疑他确实这么做了，先生，尽管他总是用哄骗的方式。”

‘Was he so sweet, then?’
“那他有那么可爱吗？”

‘Indeed, he was all honey, monsieur.’
“确实，他真是太可爱了，先生。”

‘Indeed!’
'的确！'

‘He came, he said, on the part of his Eminence, who wished you well, and to beg you to follow him to the Palais-Royal.’*
“他说，他是代表陛下来的，他祝愿您一切顺利，并恳求您跟随他前往皇宫。”*

*It was called the Palais-Cardinal before Richelieu gave it to the King.
*在黎塞留将其送给国王之前，它被称为红衣主教宫。

‘What did you answer him?’
“你怎么回答他的？”

‘That the thing was impossible, seeing that you were not at home, as he could see.’
“正如他所见，你不在家，这件事是不可能的。”

‘Well, what did he say then?’
“那么，他当时说什么了？”

‘That you must not fail to call upon him in the course of the day; and then he added in a low voice, ‘Tell your master that his Eminence is very well disposed toward him, and that his fortune perhaps depends upon this interview.’’
“白天你一定要去拜访他；然后他低声补充道：“告诉你的主人，陛下对他非常好，他的命运也许取决于这次会面。”

‘The snare is rather MALADROIT for the cardinal,’ replied the young man, smiling.
“对于红衣主教来说，这个圈套实在是太笨拙了，”年轻人微笑着回答道。

‘Oh, I saw the snare, and I answered you would be quite in despair on your return.
“哦，我看到了那个网罗，我回答说你回来后会非常绝望。

‘‘Where has he gone?’ asked Monsieur de Cavois.
“他去哪儿了？”卡沃斯先生问道。

‘‘To Troyes, in Champagne,’ I answered.
“去特鲁瓦，在香槟，”我回答道。

‘‘And when did he set out?’
“他什么时候出发的？”

‘‘Yesterday evening.’’
“昨天晚上。”

‘Planchet, my friend,’ interrupted d’Artagnan, ‘you are really a precious fellow.’
“普朗谢，我的朋友，”达达尼昂打断道，“你真是一个珍贵的家伙。”

‘You will understand, monsieur, I thought there would be still time, if you wish, to see Monsieur de Cavois to contradict me by saying you were not yet gone. The falsehood would then lie at my door, and as I am not a gentleman, I may be allowed to lie.’
“你会明白的，先生，如果你愿意的话，我想还有时间去见德·卡沃斯先生，他会反驳我说你还没有走。谎言就会出现在我的门口，因为我不是绅士，所以我可能会被允许撒谎。

‘Be of good heart, Planchet, you shall preserve your reputation as a veracious man. In a quarter of an hour we set off.’
“保持一颗善良的心，普朗切特，你会维护你作为一个诚实人的声誉。一刻钟后我们就出发了。

‘That’s the advice I was about to give Monsieur; and where are we going, may I ask, without being too curious?’
“这就是我要给先生的建议；我可以问，我们要去哪里，但不要太好奇？

‘PARDIEU! In the opposite direction to that which you said I was gone. Besides, are you not as anxious to learn news of Grimaud, Mousqueton, and Bazin as I am to know what has become of Athos, Porthos, and Aramis?’
‘帕迪厄！与你说我消失的方向相反。此外，你不也像我急于了解阿托斯、波尔托斯和阿拉米斯的情况一样急于了解格里莫、穆斯克东和巴赞的消息吗？

‘Yes, monsieur,’ said Planchet, ‘and I will go as soon as you please. Indeed, I think provincial air will suit us much better just now than the air of Paris. So then—‘
“是的，先生，”普兰歇说，“只要您愿意，我就去。”事实上，我认为目前省内的空气比巴黎的空气更适合我们。那么——”

‘So then, pack up our luggage, Planchet, and let us be off. On my part, I will go out with my hands in my pockets, that nothing may be suspected. You may join me at the Hotel des Gardes. By the way, Planchet, I think you are right with respect to our host, and that he is decidedly a frightfully low wretch.’
“那么，普朗切特，收拾好行李，我们就出发吧。”就我而言，我会双手插在口袋里出门，以免引起任何怀疑。您可以到 Gardes 酒店来找我。顺便说一句，普朗切特，我认为你对我们主人的评价是对的，他绝对是一个卑鄙得可怕的家伙。

‘Ah, monsieur, you may take my word when I tell you anything. I am a physiognomist, I assure you.’
“啊，先生，当我告诉你任何事情时，你都可以相信我的话。我向你保证，我是一名相术师。

D’Artagnan went out first, as had been agreed upon. Then, in order that he might have nothing to reproach himself with, he directed his steps, for the last time, toward the residences of his three friends. No news had been received of them; only a letter, all perfumed and of an elegant writing in small characters, had come for Aramis. D’Artagnan took charge of it. Ten minutes afterward Planchet joined him at the stables of the Hotel des Gardes. D’Artagnan, in order that there might be no time lost, had saddled his horse himself.
按照约定，达达尼昂先出去了。然后，为了不让自己有什么可责备的，他最后一次走向了三个朋友的住处。没有收到他们的消息；只有一封写给阿拉米斯的信，散发着香气，字迹优雅。达达尼昂负责此事。十分钟后，普兰切特在嘉德酒店的马厩里与他会合。为了不耽误时间，达达尼昂亲自给马备好鞍。

‘That’s well,’ said he to Planchet, when the latter added the portmanteau to the equipment. ‘Now saddle the other three horses.’
“很好，”当普朗切特将组合件添加到设备中时，他对普朗切特说道。 “现在给另外三匹马装鞍。”

‘Do you think, then, monsieur, that we shall travel faster with two horses apiece?’ said Planchet, with his shrewd air.
“那么，先生，您认为我们每人骑两匹马会走得更快吗？”普朗谢神情精明地说。

‘No, Monsieur Jester,’ replied d’Artagnan; ‘but with our four horses we may bring back our three friends, if we should have the good fortune to find them living.’
“不，小丑先生，”达达尼昂回答道。 “但是，如果我们有幸发现他们还活着的话，我们可以用我们的四匹马带回我们的三个朋友。”

‘Which is a great chance,’ replied Planchet, ‘but we must not despair of the mercy of God.’
“这是一个很好的机会，”普兰歇回答道，“但我们绝不能对上帝的仁慈感到绝望。”

‘Amen!’ said d’Artagnan, getting into his saddle.
“阿门！”达达尼昂坐上马鞍说道。

As they went from the Hotel des Gardes, they separated, leaving the street at opposite ends, one having to quit Paris by the Barriere de la Villette and the other by the Barriere Montmartre, to meet again beyond St. Denis—a strategic maneuver which, having been executed with equal punctuality, was crowned with the most fortunate results. D’Artagnan and Planchet entered Pierrefitte together.
当他们离开嘉德酒店时，他们分开了，把街道分开了，一个必须从拉维莱特街离开巴黎，另一个必须从蒙马特街离开巴黎，在圣但尼之外再次相遇——这是一种战略策略，同样准时地被执行，获得了最幸运的结果。达达尼昂和普朗谢一起进入皮埃尔菲特。

Planchet was more courageous, it must be admitted, by day than by night. His natural prudence, however, never forsook him for a single instant. He had forgotten not one of the incidents of the first journey, and he looked upon everybody he met on the road as an enemy. It followed that his hat was forever in his hand, which procured him some severe reprimands from d’Artagnan, who feared that his excess of politeness would lead people to think he was the lackey of a man of no consequence.
必须承认，普兰切特白天比晚上更勇敢。然而，他天生的谨慎从来没有一刻放弃过。他没有忘记第一次旅途中发生的任何事情，他将路上遇到的每个人都视为敌人。因此，他的帽子永远在他手里，这招致了达达尼昂的严厉斥责，达达尼昂担心他的过度礼貌会让人认为他是一个无足轻重的人的走狗。

Nevertheless, whether the passengers were really touched by the urbanity of Planchet or whether this time nobody was posted on the young man’s road, our two travelers arrived at Chantilly without any accident, and alighted at the tavern of Great St. Martin, the same at which they had stopped on their first journey.
尽管如此，不管乘客们是否真的被普朗谢特的彬彬有礼所感动，也不管这一次年轻人的路上没有人站岗，我们的两位旅客还是毫无意外地到达了尚蒂伊，并在大圣马丁的小酒馆下车，同样在他们在第一次旅程中就停了下来。

The host, on seeing a young man followed by a lackey with two extra horses, advanced respectfully to the door. Now, as they had already traveled eleven leagues, d’Artagnan thought it time to stop, whether Porthos were or were not in the inn. Perhaps it would not be prudent to ask at once what had become of the Musketeer. The result of these reflections was that d’Artagnan, without asking information of any kind, alighted, commended the horses to the care of his lackey, entered a small room destined to receive those who wished to be alone, and desired the host to bring him a bottle of his best wine and as good a breakfast as possible—a desire which further corroborated the high opinion the innkeeper had formed of the traveler at first sight.
主人见一个年轻人身后跟着一个仆人，多了两匹马，恭敬地走到门口。现在，他们已经走了十一个里格，达达尼昂认为是时候停下来了，无论波托斯是否在旅馆里。也许立即询问火枪手的情况并不明智。这些思考的结果是，达达尼昂没有询问任何信息，就下了车，将马交给他的仆人照顾，进入一个小房间，专门接待那些想独处的人，并希望主人把马带来。他给了他一瓶最好的葡萄酒和尽可能好的早餐——这一愿望进一步证实了旅店老板对这位旅行者的第一眼的高度评价。

D’Artagnan was therefore served with miraculous celerity. The regiment of the Guards was recruited among the first gentlemen of the kingdom; and d’Artagnan, followed by a lackey, and traveling with four magnificent horses, despite the simplicity of his uniform, could not fail to make a sensation. The host desired himself to serve him; which d’Artagnan perceiving, ordered two glasses to be brought, and commenced the following conversation.
因此，达达尼昂得到了奇迹般的迅速服务。近卫军是在王国第一批绅士中招募的。达达尼昂身后跟着一个仆人，带着四匹华丽的马出行，尽管他的制服很简单，但也不可能不引起轰动。主人希望自己能为他服务。达达尼昂察觉到了这一点，吩咐拿来两只杯子，然后开始下面的谈话。

‘My faith, my good host,’ said d’Artagnan, filling the two glasses, ‘I asked for a bottle of your best wine, and if you have deceived me, you will be punished in what you have sinned; for seeing that I hate drinking my myself, you shall drink with me. Take your glass, then, and let us drink. But what shall we drink to, so as to avoid wounding any susceptibility? Let us drink to the prosperity of your establishment.’
“我的信仰，我的好主人，”达达尼昂说，给两个杯子倒满了酒，“我要了一瓶你们最好的酒，如果你们欺骗了我，你们将因你们所犯的罪而受到惩罚；既然我讨厌自己喝酒，你就和我一起喝酒吧。那么，拿起你的杯子，让我们喝一杯吧。但我们应该喝什么才能避免伤害敏感的人呢？让我们为贵公司的繁荣干杯。

‘Your Lordship does me much honor,’ said the host, ‘and I thank you sincerely for your kind wish.’
“阁下让我深感荣幸，”主人说道，“我衷心感谢您的美好祝愿。”

‘But don’t mistake,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘there is more selfishness in my toast than perhaps you may think—for it is only in prosperous establishments that one is well received. In hotels that do not flourish, everything is in confusion, and the traveler is a victim to the embarrassments of his host. Now, I travel a great deal, particularly on this road, and I wish to see all innkeepers making a fortune.’
“但是请不要误会，”达达尼昂说，“我的祝酒词中可能比你想象的更自私——因为只有在繁荣的场所，人们才会受到欢迎。在不繁荣的酒店里，一切都很混乱，旅行者成为主人尴尬的受害者。现在，我经常旅行，尤其是在这条路上，我希望看到所有的客栈老板都发财。

‘It seems to me,’ said the host, ‘that this is not the first time I have had the honor of seeing Monsieur.’
“在我看来，”主人说，“这不是我第一次有幸见到先生。”

‘Bah, I have passed perhaps ten times through Chantilly, and out of the ten times I have stopped three or four times at your house at least. Why I was here only ten or twelve days ago. I was conducting some friends, Musketeers, one of whom, by the by, had a dispute with a stranger—a man who sought a quarrel with him, for I don’t know what.’
“呸，我大概经过尚蒂伊十次了，这十次中我至少在你家停过三四次。为什么我十、十二天前才来这里。我正在指挥一些朋友，火枪手，其中一个，顺便说一句，与一个陌生人发生了争执——一个人试图与他争吵，我不知道是什么。

‘Exactly so,’ said the host; ‘I remember it perfectly. It is not Monsieur Porthos that your Lordship means?’
主人说：“正是如此。” “我记得很清楚。阁下所说的不是波托斯先生吧？

‘Yes, that is my companion’s name. My God, my dear host, tell me if anything has happened to him?’
“是的，这是我同伴的名字。我的上帝，我亲爱的主人，请告诉我他是否出了什么事？

‘Your Lordship must have observed that he could not continue his journey.’
“阁下一定发现他无法继续他的旅程了。”

‘Why, to be sure, he promised to rejoin us, and we have seen nothing of him.’
“当然，他答应重新加入我们，但我们却没有见到他。”

‘He has done us the honor to remain here.’
“他让我们很荣幸留在这里。”

‘What, he had done you the honor to remain here?’
“什么，他让你有幸留在这里？”

‘Yes, monsieur, in this house; and we are even a little uneasy—‘
“是的，先生，在这所房子里；我们甚至有点不安——”

‘On what account?’
“凭什么？”

‘Of certain expenses he has contracted.’
“他已经签订了某些费用合同。”

‘Well, but whatever expenses he may have incurred, I am sure he is in a condition to pay them.’
“好吧，但无论他可能产生什么费用，我相信他有能力支付这些费用。”

‘Ah, monsieur, you infuse genuine balm into my blood. We have made considerable advances; and this very morning the surgeon declared that if Monsieur Porthos did not pay him, he should look to me, as it was I who had sent for him.’
“啊，先生，您为我的血液注入了真正的香膏。我们已经取得了长足的进步；就在今天早上，外科医生宣布，如果波托斯先生不付钱给他，他就应该找我，因为是我派人来找他的。

‘Porthos is wounded, then?’
“那么，波尔托斯受伤了？”

‘I cannot tell you, monsieur.’
“我不能告诉你，先生。”

‘What! You cannot tell me? Surely you ought to be able to tell me better than any other person.’
'什么！你不能告诉我吗？当然，你应该比其他人更能告诉我。”

‘Yes; but in our situation we must not say all we know— particularly as we have been warned that our ears should answer for our tongues.’
'是的;但在我们的情况下，我们不能说出我们所知道的一切——特别是当我们被警告说我们的耳朵应该为我们的舌头负责时。

‘Well, can I see Porthos?’
“那么，我可以见波托斯吗？”

‘Certainly, monsieur. Take the stairs on your right; go up the first flight and knock at Number One. Only warn him that it is you.’
“当然可以，先生。走右边的楼梯；登上第一层楼梯，然后敲一号门。只要警告他是你就可以了。

‘Why should I do that?’
'我为什么要那么做？'

‘Because, monsieur, some mischief might happen to you.’
“因为，先生，你可能会遇到一些恶作剧。”

‘Of what kind, in the name of wonder?’
“什么类型的，以奇迹的名义？”

‘Monsieur Porthos may imagine you belong to the house, and in a fit of passion might run his sword through you or blow out your brains.’
“波尔托斯先生可能会认为你属于这所房子，一时冲动可能会用剑刺穿你，或者炸掉你的大脑。”

‘What have you done to him, then?’
“那你对他做了什么？”

‘We have asked him for money.’
“我们已经向他要钱了。”

‘The devil! Ah, I can understand that. It is a demand that Porthos takes very ill when he is not in funds; but I know he must be so at present.’
'恶魔！啊，我能理解。当波尔托斯没有资金时，他会非常讨厌这个要求。但我知道他现在一定是这样。”

‘We thought so, too, monsieur. As our house is carried on very regularly, and we make out our bills every week, at the end of eight days we presented our account; but it appeared we had chosen an unlucky moment, for at the first word on the subject, he sent us to all the devils. It is true he had been playing the day before.’
“我们也这么认为，先生。由于我们的房屋运转非常规律，而且我们每周都会记帐，所以八天后我们就提交了帐目；但看来我们选择了一个不幸的时刻，因为在谈到这个问题的第一个词时，他就把我们送到了所有的魔鬼那里。确实，他前一天就已经在打球了。”

‘Playing the day before! And with whom?’
‘前一天还在玩！和谁一起呢？

‘Lord, who can say, monsieur? With some gentleman who was traveling this way, to whom he proposed a game of LANSQUENET.’
“主啊，谁能说呢，先生？他和一位正在这条路上旅行的绅士一起，向他提议玩 LANSQUENET 游戏。

‘That’s it, then, and the foolish fellow lost all he had?’
“那么，就是这样，那个愚蠢的家伙就失去了他所有的一切吗？”

‘Even to his horse, monsieur; for when the gentleman was about to set out, we perceived that his lackey was saddling Monsieur Porthos’s horse, as well as his master’s. When we observed this to him, he told us all to trouble ourselves about our own business, as this horse belonged to him. We also informed Monsieur Porthos of what was going on; but he told us we were scoundrels to doubt a gentleman’s word, and that as he had said the horse was his, it must be so.’
“连他的马也一样，先生；因为当那位先生正要出发时，我们发现他的仆人正在给波托斯先生和他主人的马备鞍。当我们向他指出这一点时，他告诉我们大家别忙自己的事，因为这匹马是他的。我们还向波尔托斯先生通报了所发生的事情；但他告诉我们，怀疑君子的话就是无赖，既然他说这匹马是他的，那就一定是这样。

‘That’s Porthos all over,’ murmured d’Artagnan.
“这就是波尔托斯的全部，”达达尼昂低声说道。

‘Then,’ continued the host, ‘I replied that as from the moment we seemed not likely to come to a good understanding with respect to payment, I hoped that he would have at least the kindness to grant the favor of his custom to my brother host of the Golden Eagle; but Monsieur Porthos replied that, my house being the best, he should remain where he was. This reply was too flattering to allow me to insist on his departure. I confined myself then to begging him to give up his chamber, which is the handsomest in the hotel, and to be satisfied with a pretty little room on the third floor; but to this Monsieur Porthos replied that as he every moment expected his mistress, who was one of the greatest ladies in the court, I might easily comprehend that the chamber he did me the honor to occupy in my house was itself very mean for the visit of such a personage. Nevertheless, while acknowledging the truth of what he said, I thought proper to insist; but without even giving himself the trouble to enter into any discussion with me, he took one of his pistols, laid it on his table, day and night, and said that at the first word that should be spoken to him about removing, either within the house or out of it, he would blow out the brains of the person who should be so imprudent as to meddle with a matter which only concerned himself. Since that time, monsieur, nobody entered his chamber but his servant.’
“然后，”主人继续说道，“我回答说，从那一刻起，我们似乎不太可能在付款方面达成良好的谅解，我希望他至少能善意地给予我的习惯以他的好意。”金鹰的主持人兄弟；但波尔托斯先生回答说，我的房子是最好的，他应该留在原来的地方。这个答复太讨人喜欢了，我无法坚持让他离开。我当时只恳求他放弃他的房间，那是旅馆里最漂亮的房间，而满足于在三楼有一个漂亮的小房间。但波尔托斯先生对此回答说，他每时每刻都在期待着他的情妇，她是宫廷里最伟大的女士之一，我很容易理解，他有幸在我家中占据的房间本身对于这次访问来说是非常简陋的。这样的人物。尽管如此，虽然我承认他说的是真的，但我认为坚持是正确的。但他甚至没有费力与我进行任何讨论，而是拿起一把手枪，日日夜夜地放在桌子上，并说，当我对他说的第一句话是关于移除时，无论是在如果有人如此轻率地插手只与他自己有关的事情，他就会把他的大脑打碎。从那时起，先生，除了他的仆人之外，没有人能进入他的房间。

‘What! Mousqueton is here, then?’
'什么！那么穆斯克顿在这里吗？

‘Oh, yes, monsieur. Five days after your departure, he came back, and in a very bad condition, too. It appears that he had met with disagreeableness, likewise, on his journey. Unfortunately, he is more nimble than his master; so that for the sake of his master, he puts us all under his feet, and as he thinks we might refuse what he asked for, he takes all he wants without asking at all.’
“哦，是的，先生。你离开五天后，他回来了，而且情况也很糟糕。看来他在旅途中也遇到了不愉快的事情。不幸的是，他比他的主人更灵活；因此，为了他的主人，他把我们都踩在了脚下，因为他认为我们可能会拒绝他所要求的东西，所以他根本不问就拿走了他想要的一切。

‘The fact is,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘I have always observed a great degree of intelligence and devotedness in Mousqueton.’
“事实是，”达达尼昂说，“我一直在穆斯克东身上观察到高度的智慧和奉献精神。”

‘That is possible, monsieur; but suppose I should happen to be brought in contact, even four times a year, with such intelligence and devotedness—why, I should be a ruined man!’
“这是可能的，先生；但假设我碰巧接触到如此聪明和忠诚的人，哪怕一年四次——为什么，我会成为一个破产的人！

‘No, for Porthos will pay you.’
“不，波托斯会付钱给你。”

‘Hum!’ said the host, in a doubtful tone.
“嗯！”主持人用怀疑的语气说道。

‘The favorite of a great lady will not be allowed to be inconvenienced for such a paltry sum as he owes you.’
“一位伟大女士的最爱，不会因为他欠你的这笔微不足道的钱而受到不便。”

‘If I durst say what I believe on that head—‘
“如果我敢于说出我所相信的——”

‘What you believe?’
“你相信什么？”

‘I ought rather to say, what I know.’
“我应该说出我所知道的。”

‘What you know?’
'你知道什么？'

‘And even what I am sure of.’
“甚至是我确信的事情。”

‘And of what are you so sure?’
“你对什么如此确定？”

‘I would say that I know this great lady.’
“我想说我认识这位伟大的女士。”

‘You?’
'你？'

‘Yes; I.’
'是的;我。'

‘And how do you know her?’
“你怎么认识她的？”

‘Oh, monsieur, if I could believe I might trust in your discretion.’
“噢，先生，如果我能相信的话，我会相信您的判断力。”

‘Speak! By the word of a gentleman, you shall have no cause to repent of your confidence.’
'说话！以一位绅士的话来说，你没有理由后悔你的信任。

‘Well, monsieur, you understand that uneasiness makes us do many things.’
“好吧，先生，您知道，不安会让我们做很多事情。”

‘What have you done?’
'你做了什么？'

‘Oh, nothing which was not right in the character of a creditor.’
“哦，债权人的性格没有什么不对的。”

‘Well?’
'出色地？'

‘Monsieur Porthos gave us a note for his duchess, ordering us to put it in the post. This was before his servant came. As he could not leave his chamber, it was necessary to charge us with this commission.’
“波托斯先生给了我们一张给他的公爵夫人的纸条，命令我们把它投进邮局。这是在他的仆人到来之前。由于他无法离开他的房间，因此有必要向我们委托这项委托。

‘And then?’
'进而？'

‘Instead of putting the letter in the post, which is never safe, I took advantage of the journey of one of my lads to Paris, and ordered him to convey the letter to this duchess himself. This was fulfilling the intentions of Monsieur Porthos, who had desired us to be so careful of this letter, was it not?’
“我没有把这封信寄到邮局，因为这永远不安全，而是利用我的一个小伙子去巴黎的旅程，命令他亲自将这封信转交给这位公爵夫人。这正符合波尔托斯先生的意图，他希望我们对这封信如此小心，不是吗？

‘Nearly so.’
“几乎如此。”

‘Well, monsieur, do you know who this great lady is?’
“那么，先生，您知道这位伟大的女士是谁吗？”

‘No; I have heard Porthos speak of her, that’s all.’
'不;我听波托斯谈起过她，仅此而已。

‘Do you know who this pretended duchess is?
“你知道这位冒充的公爵夫人是谁吗？

‘I repeat to you, I don’t know her.’
“我向你重复一遍，我不认识她。”

‘Why, she is the old wife of a procurator* of the Chatelet, monsieur, named Madame Coquenard, who, although she is at least fifty, still gives herself jealous airs. It struck me as very odd that a princess should live in the Rue aux Ours.’
“哎呀，她是夏特莱检察官*的老太太，先生，名叫科奎纳尔夫人，虽然她至少已经五十岁了，但仍然摆出嫉妒的样子。一位公主竟然住在我们的街上，这让我觉得很奇怪。

*Attorney
*律师

‘But how do you know all this?’
“但是你怎么知道这一切呢？”

‘Because she flew into a great passion on receiving the letter, saying that Monsieur Porthos was a weathercock, and that she was sure it was for some woman he had received this wound.’
“因为她收到这封信后勃然大怒，说波托斯先生是个风向标，她确信他是为了某个女人才受了这个伤。”

‘Has he been wounded, then?’
“那么他受伤了吗？”

‘Oh, good Lord! What have I said?’
‘哦，天哪！我说什么了？

‘You said that Porthos had received a sword cut.’
“你说波托斯被剑砍伤了。”

‘Yes, but he has forbidden me so strictly to say so.’
“是的，但他严格禁止我这么说。”

‘And why so.’
“为什么会这样。”

‘Zounds, monsieur! Because he had boasted that he would perforate the stranger with whom you left him in dispute; whereas the stranger, on the contrary, in spite of all his rodomontades quickly threw him on his back. As Monsieur Porthos is a very boastful man, he insists that nobody shall know he has received this wound except the duchess, whom he endeavored to interest by an account of his adventure.’
‘Zounds，先生！因为他曾吹嘘说他会刺穿你留下的那个与他发生争执的陌生人；而陌生人则恰恰相反，尽管他的样子很夸张，但还是很快把他摔倒在地。由于波尔托斯先生是一个非常自夸的人，他坚持认为除了公爵夫人之外，没有人会知道他受了这个伤，他试图通过讲述自己的冒险经历来引起公爵夫人的兴趣。

‘It is a wound that confines him to his bed?’
“是伤口把他限制在床上了吗？”

‘Ah, and a master stroke, too, I assure you. Your friend’s soul must stick tight to his body.’
“啊，我向你保证，这也是一招绝技。”你朋友的灵魂必须紧紧地贴在他的身体上。

‘Were you there, then?’
“那么你在场吗？”

‘Monsieur, I followed them from curiosity, so that I saw the combat without the combatants seeing me.’
“先生，我出于好奇跟着他们，所以我看到了战斗，而战斗人员却没有看到我。”

‘And what took place?’
“发生了什么事？”

‘Oh! The affair was not long, I assure you. They placed themselves on guard; the stranger made a feint and a lunge, and that so rapidly that when Monsieur Porthos came to the PARADE, he had already three inches of steel in his breast. He immediately fell backward. The stranger placed the point of his sword at his throat; and Monsieur Porthos, finding himself at the mercy of his adversary, acknowledged himself conquered. Upon which the stranger asked his name, and learning that it was Porthos, and not d’Artagnan, he assisted him to rise, brought him back to the hotel, mounted his horse, and disappeared.’
'哦！我向你保证，这段恋情并没有持续多久。他们严阵以待。陌生人做了一个佯攻，动作如此之快，以至于当波托斯先生来到游行队伍时，他的胸口已经有三英寸厚的钢铁了。他立刻向后倒去。陌生人将剑尖抵在他的喉咙上。波尔托斯先生发现自己受到对手的摆布，承认自己被征服了。陌生人问起他的名字，得知那是波尔托斯，而不是达达尼昂，他扶他起身，把他带回旅馆，骑上马，消失了。

‘So it was with Monsieur d’Artagnan this stranger meant to quarrel?’
“这么说来，这个陌生人是想跟达达尼昂先生吵架？”

‘It appears so.’
“看来是这样。”

‘And do you know what has become of him?’
“你知道他怎么样了吗？”

‘No, I never saw him until that moment, and have not seen him since.’
“不，直到那一刻我才见过他，从那以后我就再也没有见过他。”

‘Very well; I know all that I wish to know. Porthos’s chamber is, you say, on the first story, Number One?’
'很好;我知道我想知道的一切。你说波托斯的房间在第一层，一号？

‘Yes, monsieur, the handsomest in the inn—a chamber that I could have let ten times over.’
“是的，先生，是旅馆里最漂亮的——我可以租十次的房间。”

‘Bah! Be satisfied,’ said d’Artagnan, laughing, ‘Porthos will pay you with the money of the Duchess Coquenard.’
'呸！满意吧，”达达尼昂笑着说，“波托斯会用科奎纳德公爵夫人的钱付给你。”

‘Oh, monsieur, procurator’s wife or duchess, if she will but loosen her pursestrings, it will be all the same; but she positively answered that she was tired of the exigencies and infidelities of Monsieur Porthos, and that she would not send him a denier.’
“哦，先生，无论是检察官的妻子还是公爵夫人，只要她愿意松开她的钱包，那就都一样了；但她积极地回答说，她厌倦了波尔托斯先生的急迫和不忠，并且她不会向他发出否认者的声音。

‘And did you convey this answer to your guest?’
“你把这个答案转达给你的客人了吗？”

‘We took good care not to do that; he would have found in what fashion we had executed his commission.’
“我们小心翼翼地不这样做；他会发现我们以什么方式执行他的委托。

‘So that he still expects his money?’
“所以他仍然指望得到他的钱？”

‘Oh, Lord, yes, monsieur! Yesterday he wrote again; but it was his servant who this time put the letter in the post.’
“噢，主啊，是的，先生！昨天他又写信；但这一次是他的仆人把信投进了邮筒。”

‘Do you say the procurator’s wife is old and ugly?’
“你说检察官夫人又老又丑？”

‘Fifty at least, monsieur, and not at all handsome, according to Pathaud’s account.’
“至少五十岁了，先生，根据帕托的说法，一点也不英俊。”

‘In that case, you may be quite at ease; she will soon be softened. Besides, Porthos cannot owe you much.’
‘这样的话，你就可以放心了；她很快就会软化。再说了，波托斯也不能欠你太多。”

‘How, not much! Twenty good pistoles, already, without reckoning the doctor. He denies himself nothing; it may easily be seen he has been accustomed to live well.’
‘怎么样，不多吧！已经有二十个好手枪了，还没有考虑到医生。他什么也不否认自己；很容易看出他已经习惯了美好的生活。

‘Never mind; if his mistress abandons him, he will find friends, I will answer for it. So, my dear host, be not uneasy, and continue to take all the care of him that his situation requires.’
'没关系;如果他的情妇抛弃了他，他会去找朋友，我会负责的。因此，我亲爱的主人，请不要感到不安，并继续根据他的情况需要照顾他。”

‘Monsieur has promised me not to open his mouth about the procurator’s wife, and not to say a word of the wound?’
“先生答应过我不许谈论检察官妻子的事，也不许说伤口的事？”

‘That’s agreed; you have my word.’
‘那是同意了；我向你保证。

‘Oh, he would kill me!’
“哦，他会杀了我！”

‘Don’t be afraid; he is not so much of a devil as he appears.’
‘不要害怕；他并不像表面上那样是个魔鬼。

Saying these words, d’Artagnan went upstairs, leaving his host a little better satisfied with respect to two things in which he appeared to be very much interested—his debt and his life.
说完这句话，达达尼昂上楼了，让主人对他似乎非常感兴趣的两件事——他的债务和他的生活——感到满意一些。

At the top of the stairs, upon the most conspicuous door of the corridor, was traced in black ink a gigantic number ‘1.’ d’Artagnan knocked, and upon the bidding to come in which came from inside, he entered the chamber.
楼梯顶端，走廊最显眼的门上，用黑色墨水写着一个巨大的数字“1”。达达尼昂敲了敲门，听到里面传来的“进来”的命令，他就走进了房间。

Porthos was in bed, and was playing a game at LANSQUENET with Mousqueton, to keep his hand in; while a spit loaded with partridges was turning before the fire, and on each side of a large chimneypiece, over two chafing dishes, were boiling two stewpans, from which exhaled a double odor of rabbit and fish stews, rejoicing to the smell. In addition to this he perceived that the top of a wardrobe and the marble of a commode were covered with empty bottles.
波托斯躺在床上，正在 LANSQUENET 和穆斯克东玩游戏，以控制住自己的手。一只装满鹧鸪的烤肉叉在火前转动，大烟囱的两侧，两个火锅上，正在煮两个炖锅，里面散发着兔肉和鱼炖肉的双重气味，令人欣喜。除此之外，他还发现衣柜顶部和马桶的大理石上都堆满了空瓶子。

At the sight of his friend, Porthos uttered a loud cry of joy; and Mousqueton, rising respectfully, yielded his place to him, and went to give an eye to the two stewpans, of which he appeared to have the particular inspection.
波托斯一看到他的朋友，就高兴地大叫起来。穆斯克顿恭恭敬敬地站起来，把位置让给了他，然后去照看两个炖锅，他似乎对这两个炖锅特别在意。

‘Ah, PARDIEU! Is that you?’ said Porthos to d’Artagnan. ‘You are right welcome. Excuse my not coming to meet you; but,’ added he, looking at d’Artagnan with a certain degree of uneasiness, ‘you know what has happened to me?’
‘啊，帕迪厄！是你吗？”波托斯对达达尼昂说道。 ‘不客气。对不起，我没有来见你；但是，”他补充道，带着某种程度的不安看着达达尼昂，“你知道我发生了什么事吗？”

‘No.’
'不。'

‘Has the host told you nothing, then?’
“那么主人什么也没告诉你吗？”

‘I asked after you, and came up as soon as I could.’
“我问过你的情况，并尽快赶来。”

Porthos seemed to breathe more freely.
波托斯似乎呼吸更加自由了。

‘And what has happened to you, my dear Porthos?’ continued d’Artagnan.
“亲爱的波托斯，你怎么了？”达达尼昂继续说道。

‘Why, on making a thrust at my adversary, whom I had already hit three times, and whom I meant to finish with the fourth, I put my foot on a stone, slipped, and strained my knee.’
“为什么，当我向我的对手发起猛击时，我已经击中了他三次，我本想用第四次击中他，但我的脚踩到了一块石头上，滑倒了，膝盖也拉伤了。”

‘Truly?’
“真的吗？”

‘Honor! Luckily for the rascal, for I should have left him dead on the spot, I assure you.’
'荣誉！对于这个流氓来说幸运的是，因为我应该让他当场死去，我向你保证。

‘And what has became of him?’
“他怎么样了？”

‘Oh, I don’t know; he had enough, and set off without waiting for the rest. But you, my dear d’Artagnan, what has happened to you?’
哦，我不知道；他吃饱了，不等剩下的就出发了。但是你，我亲爱的达达尼昂，你出了什么事？

‘So that this strain of the knee,’ continued d’Artagnan, ‘my dear Porthos, keeps you in bed?’
“所以膝盖的拉伤，”达达尼昂继续说道，“我亲爱的波尔托斯，让你一直躺在床上吗？”

‘My God, that’s all. I shall be about again in a few days.’
‘天啊，仅此而已。几天后我就会再来。

‘Why did you not have yourself conveyed to Paris? You must be cruelly bored here.’
“你为什么不把自己送到巴黎？你在这里一定太无聊了。

‘That was my intention; but, my dear friend, I have one thing to confess to you.’
“这就是我的意图；但是，我亲爱的朋友，我有一件事要向你坦白。

‘What’s that?’
'那是什么？'

‘It is that as I was cruelly bored, as you say, and as I had the seventy-five pistoles in my pocket which you had distributed to me, in order to amuse myself I invited a gentleman who was traveling this way to walk up, and proposed a cast of dice. He accepted my challenge, and, my faith, my seventy-five pistoles passed from my pocket to his, without reckoning my horse, which he won into the bargain. But you, my dear d’Artagnan?’
“正如你所说，我实在是太无聊了，而且我的口袋里有你分发给我的七十五皮斯托尔，为了自娱自乐，我邀请了一位正朝这边走来的绅士上楼。” ，并提议掷骰子。他接受了我的挑战，而且，我相信，我的七十五皮斯托尔从我的口袋里传到了他的手里，没有算上我的马，他赢得了这笔交易。那么你呢，我亲爱的达达尼昂？

‘What can you expect, my dear Porthos; a man is not privileged in all ways,’ said d’Artagnan. ‘You know the proverb ‘Unlucky at play, lucky in love.’ You are too fortunate in your love for play not to take its revenge. What consequence can the reverses of fortune be to you? Have you not, happy rogue that you are— have you not your duchess, who cannot fail to come to your aid?’
“你能期待什么，我亲爱的波尔托斯；一个人并不是在所有方面都享有特权，”达达尼昂说。 “你知道这句谚语：‘游戏中不幸，爱情中幸运’。你对游戏的热爱太幸运了，不会不去报复。命运的逆转会给你带来什么后果？你不是吗，你这个快乐的流氓——你不是你的公爵夫人吗，她一定会来帮助你的？

‘Well, you see, my dear d’Artagnan, with what ill luck I play,’ replied Porthos, with the most careless air in the world. ‘I wrote to her to send me fifty louis or so, of which I stood absolutely in need on account of my accident.’
“好吧，你看，我亲爱的达达尼昂，我运气真不好。”波尔托斯回答道，神态是世界上最粗心的。 “我写信给她，寄给我大约五十路易，由于我的事故，我绝对需要这笔钱。”

‘Well?’
'出色地？'

‘Well, she must be at her country seat, for she has not answered me.’
“嗯，她肯定在乡间别墅，因为她还没有回答我。”

‘Truly?’
“真的吗？”

‘No; so I yesterday addressed another epistle to her, still more pressing than the first. But you are here, my dear fellow, let us speak of you. I confess I began to be very uneasy on your account.’
'不;所以昨天我又给她写了一封信，比第一封更紧迫。但你在这里，我亲爱的朋友，让我们谈谈你。我承认我开始对你感到非常不安。

‘But your host behaves very well toward you, as it appears, my dear Porthos,’ said d’Artagnan, directing the sick man’s attention to the full stewpans and the empty bottles.
“但是你的主人对你表现得很好，亲爱的波托斯，”达达尼昂说，把病人的注意力引向装满的炖锅和空瓶子。

‘So, so,’ replied Porthos. ‘Only three or four days ago the impertinent jackanapes gave me his bill, and I was forced to turn both him and his bill out of the door; so that I am here something in the fashion of a conqueror, holding my position, as it were, my conquest. So you see, being in constant fear of being forced from that position, I am armed to the teeth.’
“所以，所以，”波托斯回答道。 “就在三四天前，那些无礼的杰克纳猿把他的账单交给了我，我被迫把他和他的账单都赶出了门；因此，我在这里就像一个征服者，坚守着我的立场，可以说，我的征服者。所以你看，我一直害怕被迫离开这个位置，所以我全副武装。

‘And yet,’ said d’Artagnan, laughing, ‘it appears to me that from time to time you must make SORTIES.’ And he again pointed to the bottles and the stewpans.
“然而，”达达尼昂笑着说道，“在我看来，你必须不时地出击。”他再次指着瓶子和炖锅。

‘Not I, unfortunately!’ said Porthos. ‘This miserable strain confines me to my bed; but Mousqueton forages, and brings in provisions. Friend Mousqueton, you see that we have a reinforcement, and we must have an increase of supplies.’
“不幸的是，我不是！”波托斯说。 “这种痛苦的压力将我限制在床上；但穆斯克东却在搜寻食物并带来粮食。穆斯克顿朋友，你看我们有增援，我们必须增加补给。

‘Mousqueton,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘you must render me a service.’
“穆斯克东，”达达尼昂说，“你必须为我服务。”

‘What, monsieur?’
“什么，先生？”

‘You must give your recipe to Planchet. I may be besieged in my turn, and I shall not be sorry for him to be able to let me enjoy the same advantages with which you gratify your master.’
“你必须把你的食谱交给普兰切特。我可能会被围困，但我不会为他感到遗憾，因为他能让我享受到你让你的主人满意的同样的好处。

‘Lord, monsieur! There is nothing more easy,’ said Mousqueton, with a modest air. ‘One only needs to be sharp, that’s all. I was brought up in the country, and my father in his leisure time was something of a poacher.’
‘主啊，先生！没有什么比这更容易的了。”穆斯克顿谦虚地说。 ‘只要头脑敏锐，仅此而已。我是在乡下长大的，我的父亲闲暇时是个偷猎者。

‘And what did he do the rest of his time?’
“那么他剩下的时间都做了什么？”

‘Monsieur, he carried on a trade which I have always thought satisfactory.’
“先生，他从事的生意我一直认为令人满意。”

‘Which?’
'哪个？'

‘As it was a time of war between the Catholics and the Huguenots, and as he saw the Catholics exterminate the Huguenots and the Huguenots exterminate the Catholics—all in the name of religion—he adopted a mixed belief which permitted him to be sometimes Catholic, sometimes a Huguenot. Now, he was accustomed to walk with his fowling piece on his shoulder, behind the hedges which border the roads, and when he saw a Catholic coming alone, the Protestant religion immediately prevailed in his mind. He lowered his gun in the direction of the traveler; then, when he was within ten paces of him, he commenced a conversation which almost always ended by the traveler’s abandoning his purse to save his life. It goes without saying that when he saw a Huguenot coming, he felt himself filled with such ardent Catholic zeal that he could not understand how, a quarter of an hour before, he had been able to have any doubts upon the superiority of our holy religion. For my part, monsieur, I am Catholic—my father, faithful to his principles, having made my elder brother a Huguenot.’
“当时是天主教徒和胡格诺派之间的战争时期，当他看到天主教徒消灭胡格诺派，胡格诺派消灭天主教徒——所有这些都是以宗教的名义——他采取了一种混合的信仰，这使他有时成为天主教徒，有时是胡格诺派。现在，他习惯了肩上扛着捕鸟器，在路边的树篱后面行走，当他看到一个天主教徒独自走来时，新教立即在他的脑海中占据上风。他把枪对准了旅行者的方向。然后，当他距离他十步以内时，他开始谈话，而谈话几乎总是以旅行者放弃钱包以挽救他的生命而结束。不用说，当他看到一位胡格诺教徒到来时，他感到自己充满了如此热烈的天主教热情，以至于他无法理解，在一刻钟之前，他怎么会对我们神圣宗教的优越性产生任何怀疑。 。就我而言，先生，我是天主教徒——我的父亲忠实于他的原则，使我的哥哥成为了胡格诺派教徒。

‘And what was the end of this worthy man?’ asked d’Artagnan.
“那么这个值得尊敬的人的结局是什么呢？”达达尼昂问道。

‘Oh, of the most unfortunate kind, monsieur. One day he was surprised in a lonely road between a Huguenot and a Catholic, with both of whom he had before had business, and who both knew him again; so they united against him and hanged him on a tree. Then they came and boasted of their fine exploit in the cabaret of the next village, where my brother and I were drinking.’
“哦，最不幸的是，先生。有一天，他在胡格诺派教徒和天主教徒之间的一条偏僻的道路上感到惊讶，他以前与他们都有过生意，而且都又认识了他。于是他们联合起来反对他，把他吊在树上。然后他们来了，吹嘘自己在隔壁村庄的歌舞表演中的出色表现，我和哥哥正在那里喝酒。

‘And what did you do?’ said d’Artagnan.
“那你做了什么？”达达尼昂问道。

‘We let them tell their story out,’ replied Mousqueton. ‘Then, as in leaving the cabaret they took different directions, my brother went and hid himself on the road of the Catholic, and I on that of the Huguenot. Two hours after, all was over; we had done the business of both, admiring the foresight of our poor father, who had taken the precaution to bring each of us up in a different religion.’
“我们让他们讲述自己的故事，”穆斯克顿回答道。 “然后，当他们离开歌舞厅时，他们走了不同的方向，我的兄弟躲在天主教的路上，而我则躲在胡格诺派的路上。两个小时后，一切都结束了；我们都完成了这两件事，钦佩我们可怜的父亲的远见，他采取了预防措施，让我们每个人都接受不同的宗教。

‘Well, I must allow, as you say, your father was a very intelligent fellow. And you say in his leisure moments the worthy man was a poacher?’
“嗯，我必须承认，正如你所说，你的父亲是一个非常聪明的人。你说这个值得尊敬的人在闲暇时是个偷猎者？

‘Yes, monsieur, and it was he who taught me to lay a snare and ground a line. The consequence is that when I saw our laborers, which did not at all suit two such delicate stomachs as ours, I had recourse to a little of my old trade. While walking near the wood of Monsieur le Prince, I laid a few snare in the runs; and while reclining on the banks of his Highness’s pieces of water, I slipped a few lines into his fish ponds. So that now, thanks be to God, we do not want, as Monsieur can testify, for partridges, rabbits, carp or eels—all light, wholesome food, suitable for the sick.’
“是的，先生，正是他教我如何布网和磨线。结果是，当我看到我们的工人根本不适合我们两个如此脆弱的胃时，我不得不求助于我的老手艺。当我在王子先生的树林附近散步时，我在奔跑中设置了一些陷阱；当我斜倚在殿下的水域岸边时，我把几条鱼线滑进他的鱼塘里。因此，感谢上帝，我们现在不需要鹧鸪、兔子、鲤鱼或鳗鱼——所有这些清淡、有益健康、适合病人吃的食物，先生可以作证。”

‘But the wine,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘who furnishes the wine? Your host?’
“但是酒，”达达尼昂说，“谁提供酒呢？你的主人？

‘That is to say, yes and no.’
“也就是说，是和不是。”

‘How yes and no?’
“怎么是和不是？”

‘He furnishes it, it is true, but he does not know that he has that honor.’
“他提供了它，这是事实，但他不知道自己有这种荣幸。”

‘Explain yourself, Mousqueton; your conversation is full of instructive things.’
“解释一下，穆斯克东；你们的谈话充满了启发性的东西。

‘That is it, monsieur. It has so chanced that I met with a Spaniard in my peregrinations who had seen many countries, and among them the New World.’
‘就是这样，先生。很偶然，我在旅行中遇到了一位西班牙人，他见过许多国家，其中包括新世界。

‘What connection can the New World have with the bottles which are on the commode and the wardrobe?’
“新世界与马桶和衣柜上的瓶子有什么联系？”

‘Patience, monsieur, everything will come in its turn.’
“耐心点，先生，一切都会水到渠成。”

‘This Spaniard had in his service a lackey who had accompanied him in his voyage to Mexico. This lackey was my compatriot; and we became the more intimate from there being many resemblances of character between us. We loved sporting of all kinds better than anything; so that he related to me how in the plains of the Pampas the natives hunt the tiger and the wild bull with simple running nooses which they throw to a distance of twenty or thirty paces the end of a cord with such nicety; but in face of the proof I was obliged to acknowledge the truth of the recital. My friend placed a bottle at the distance of thirty paces, and at each cast he caught the neck of the bottle in his running noose. I practiced this exercise, and as nature has endowed me with some faculties, at this day I can throw the lasso with any man in the world. Well, do you understand, monsieur? Our host has a wellfurnished cellar the key of which never leaves him; only this cellar has a ventilating hole. Now through this ventilating hole I throw my lasso, and as I now know in which part of the cellar is the best wine, that’s my point for sport. You see, monsieur, what the New World has to do with the bottles which are on the commode and the wardrobe. Now, will you taste our wine, and without prejudice say what you think of it?’
“这个西班牙人有一个仆人陪伴他前往墨西哥。这个走狗是我的同胞；由于我们之间性格上有许多相似之处，我们变得更加亲密。我们热爱各种运动胜过一切。因此，他向我讲述了在潘帕斯平原上，当地人如何用简单的套索来捕猎老虎和野牛，他们将绳索的末端漂亮地扔到二十或三十步的距离上。但面对证据，我不得不承认朗诵的真实性。我的朋友在三十步远的地方放了一个瓶子，每次抛投时，他都会用他的绞索抓住瓶子的脖子。我练习了这个练习，由于大自然赋予了我一些能力，今天我可以向世界上任何人扔套索。嗯，您明白吗，先生？我们的主人有一个设备齐全的地窖，他的钥匙永远不会离开；只有这个地窖有通风孔。现在，我通过这个通风孔扔出我的套索，现在我知道地窖的哪个部分是最好的葡萄酒，这就是我的运动点。先生，你看，新世界与马桶和衣柜上的瓶子有什么关系。现在，请您尝尝我们的酒，并不带偏见地说出您的看法吗？

‘Thank you, my friend, thank you; unfortunately, I have just breakfasted.’
‘谢谢你，我的朋友，谢谢你；不幸的是，我刚刚吃过早餐。

‘Well,’ said Porthos, ‘arrange the table, Mousqueton, and while we breakfast, d’Artagnan will relate to us what has happened to him during the ten days since he left us.’
“好吧，”波尔托斯说，“安排一下桌子，穆斯克东，我们吃早饭的时候，达达尼昂会向我们讲述他离开我们后十天里发生的事情。”

‘Willingly,’ said d’Artagnan.
“愿意，”达达尼昂说。

While Porthos and Mousqueton were breakfasting, with the appetites of convalescents and with that brotherly cordiality which unites men in misfortune, d’Artagnan related how Aramis, being wounded, was obliged to stop at Crevecoeur, how he had left Athos fighting at Amiens with four men who accused him of being a coiner, and how he, d’Artagnan, had been forced to run the Comtes de Wardes through the body in order to reach England.
当波尔托斯和穆斯克东带着康复者的胃口和团结不幸中的兄弟般的热情吃早餐时，达达尼昂讲述了阿拉米斯如何受伤，被迫停在克雷维科尔，以及他如何让阿托斯带着四个人在亚眠战斗。那些指责他是造币者的人，以及他，达达尼昂，如何被迫穿过瓦尔德伯爵的身体才能到达英格兰。

But there the confidence of d’Artagnan stopped. He only added that on his return from Great Britain he had brought back four magnificent horses—one for himself, and one for each of his companions; then he informed Porthos that the one intended for him was already installed in the stable of the tavern.
但达达尼昂的信心就到此为止了。他只是补充说，从英国回来后，他带回了四匹华丽的马——一匹给他自己，一匹给他的同伴；然后他告诉波尔托斯，为他准备的那个已经安装在酒馆的马厩里了。

At this moment Planchet entered, to inform his master that the horses were sufficiently refreshed and that it would be possible to sleep at Clermont.
这时，普朗歇进来了，通知他的主人，马匹已经恢复了足够的精神，可以在克莱蒙过夜了。

As d’Artagnan was tolerably reassured with regard to Porthos, and as he was anxious to obtain news of his two other friends, he held out his hand to the wounded man, and told him he was about to resume his route in order to continue his researches. For the rest, as he reckoned upon returning by the same route in seven or eight days, if Porthos were still at the Great St. Martin, he would call for him on his way.
达达尼昂对波尔托斯的情况还算放心，而且他急于获得另外两个朋友的消息，他向受伤的人伸出了手，告诉他他即将恢复路线，以便继续前进。他的研究。至于剩下的事，他估计七八天内会按原路返回，如果波托斯还在大圣马丁，他会在路上去接他。

Porthos replied that in all probability his sprain would not permit him to depart yet awhile. Besides, it was necessary he should stay at Chantilly to wait for the answer from his duchess.
波尔托斯回答说，他的扭伤很可能暂时不允许他离开。而且，他必须留在尚蒂伊等待公爵夫人的答复。

D’Artagnan wished that answer might be prompt and favorable; and having again recommended Porthos to the care of Mousqueton, and paid his bill to the host, he resumed his route with Planchet, already relieved of one of his led horses.
达达尼昂希望得到及时且有利的答复。他再次将波尔托斯推荐给穆斯克顿照顾，并向主人付了帐单，然后他带着已经摆脱了牵着的一匹马的普朗切特继续了他的路线。

26 ARAMIS AND HIS THESIS
26 阿拉米斯和他的论文

D’Artagnan had said nothing to Porthos of his wound or of his procurator’s wife. Our Bearnais was a prudent lad, however young he might be. Consequently he had appeared to believe all that the vainglorious Musketeer had told him, convinced that no friendship will hold out against a surprised secret. Besides, we feel always a sort of mental superiority over those whose lives we know better than they suppose. In his projects of intrigue for the future, and determined as he was to make his three friends the instruments of his fortune, d’Artagnan was not sorry at getting into his grasp beforehand the invisible strings by which he reckoned upon moving them.
达达尼昂没有向波尔托斯提及他的伤口或他的检察官的妻子。我们的贝奈斯是一个谨慎的小伙子，无论他多么年轻。因此，他似乎相信了虚荣的火枪手告诉他的一切，坚信任何友谊都无法抵挡住一个令人惊讶的秘密。此外，对于那些我们比他们想象的更了解生活的人，我们总是感到一种精神上的优越感。在他对未来的阴谋计划中，达达尼昂决心让他的三个朋友成为他的财富工具，但他并不后悔提前掌握了他指望用来推动他们的无形的绳索。

And yet, as he journeyed along, a profound sadness weighed upon his heart. He thought of that young and pretty Mme. Bonacieux who was to have paid him the price of his devotedness; but let us hasten to say that this sadness possessed the young man less from the regret of the happiness he had missed, than from the fear he entertained that some serious misfortune had befallen the poor woman. For himself, he had no doubt she was a victim of the cardinal’s vengeance; and, and as was well known, the vengeance of his Eminence was terrible. How he had found grace in the eyes of the minister, he did not know; but without doubt M. de Cavois would have revealed this to him if the captain of the Guards had found him at home.
然而，当他一路前行时，一种深深的悲伤压在他的心头。他想起了那位年轻漂亮的夫人。博纳西厄本应为他的忠诚付出代价。但我们得赶紧说，年轻人的这种悲伤与其说是因为他错过了幸福，不如说是因为他担心这个可怜的女人遭遇了严重的不幸。就他自己而言，他毫不怀疑她是红衣主教复仇的受害者。众所周知，主教大人的报复是可怕的。他不知道自己是如何在牧师眼中获得恩典的。但毫无疑问，如果近卫军队长发现德·卡沃瓦先生在家，他一定会向他透露这一点的。

Nothing makes time pass more quickly or more shortens a journey than a thought which absorbs in itself all the faculties of the organization of him who thinks. External existence then resembles a sleep of which this thought is the dream. By its influence, time has no longer measure, space has no longer distance. We depart from one place, and arrive at another, that is all. Of the interval passed, nothing remains in the memory but a vague mist in which a thousand confused images of trees, mountains, and landscapes are lost. It was as a prey to this hallucination that d’Artagnan traveled, at whatever pace his horse pleased, the six or eight leagues that separated Chantilly from Crevecoeur, without his being able to remember on his arrival in the village any of the things he had passed or met with on the road.
没有什么比思想本身吸收了思考者组织的所有能力的思想更能让时间过得更快或更短的旅程了。那么，外在的存在就类似于睡眠，而这个思想就是其中的梦。受它的影响，时间不再有尺度，空间不再有距离。我们从一个地方出发，到达另一个地方，仅此而已。在过去的这段时间里，记忆中除了一片模糊的雾气之外什么也没有留下，其中消失了一千种树木、山脉和风景的混乱图像。正是这种幻觉的牺牲品，达达尼昂以他的马喜欢的任何速度，行驶了尚蒂伊和克雷维科尔之间的六或八里格，而他在到达村庄时却记不起他所拥有的任何东西。路上经过或遇见。

There only his memory returned to him. He shook his head, perceived the cabaret at which he had left Aramis, and putting his horse to the trot, he shortly pulled up at the door.
那里只有他的记忆恢复了。他摇了摇头，认出了阿拉米斯所在的歌舞厅，然后策马小跑，很快就在门口停了下来。

This time it was not a host but a hostess who received him. d’Artagnan was a physiognomist. His eye took in at a glance the plump, cheerful countenance of the mistress of the place, and he at once perceived there was no occasion for dissembling with her, or of fearing anything from one blessed with such a joyous physiognomy.
这次接待他的不是男主人，而是女主人。达达尼昂是一位相术师。他的眼睛一眼就看到了这个地方的女主人那张丰润而快乐的面容，他立刻意识到没有必要和她一起掩饰，也没有必要害怕一个拥有如此快乐相貌的人的任何事情。

‘My good dame,’ asked d’Artagnan, ‘can you tell me what has become of one of my friends, whom we were obliged to leave here about a dozen days ago?’
“我的好夫人，”达达尼昂问道，“你能告诉我我的一位朋友怎么样了吗？大约十几天前我们不得不离开这里？”

‘A handsome young man, threeor four-and-twenty years old, mild, amiable, and well made?’
“一个英俊的年轻人，三四岁，二十岁左右，温和可亲，身材魁梧？”

‘That is he—wounded in the shoulder.’
“就是他——肩膀受伤了。”

‘Just so. Well, monsieur, he is still here.’
‘就是这样。嗯，先生，他还在这里。”

‘Ah, PARDIEU! My dear dame,’ said d’Artagnan, springing from his horse, and throwing the bridle to Planchet, ‘you restore me to life; where is this dear Aramis? Let me embrace him, I am in a hurry to see him again.’
‘啊，帕迪厄！我亲爱的夫人，”达达尼昂从马背上跳下来，把缰绳扔给普朗谢，说道，“你让我复活了；亲爱的阿拉米斯在哪里？让我拥抱他吧，我急着想再次见到他。

‘Pardon, monsieur, but I doubt whether he can see you at this moment.’
“请原谅，先生，但我怀疑他现在是否能见到您。”

‘Why so? Has he a lady with him?’
'为什么这样？他身边有一位女士吗？

‘Jesus! What do you mean by that? Poor lad! No, monsieur, he has not a lady with him.’
'耶稣！你是什​​么意思？可怜的小伙子！不，先生，他身边没有女士。”

‘With whom is he, then?’
“那么他和谁在一起呢？”

‘With the curate of Montdidier and the superior of the Jesuits of Amiens.’
“与蒙迪迪埃牧师和亚眠耶稣会士的上级一起。”

‘Good heavens!’ cried d’Artagnan, ‘is the poor fellow worse, then?’
“天哪！”达达尼昂喊道，“那么这个可怜的家伙是不是更糟了？”

‘No, monsieur, quite the contrary; but after his illness grace touched him, and he determined to take orders.’
“不，先生，恰恰相反；但在他生病之后，恩典感动了他，他决定接受命令。

‘That’s it!’ said d’Artagnan, ‘I had forgotten that he was only a Musketeer for a time.’
“就是这样！”达达尼昂说道，“我忘记了他曾经只是一名火枪手。”

‘Monsieur still insists upon seeing him?’
“先生还坚持要见他吗？”

‘More than ever.’
'比以往更。'

‘Well, monsieur has only to take the right-hand staircase in the courtyard, and knock at Number Five on the second floor.’
“好吧，先生只要走院子里右手边的楼梯，敲二楼五号就行了。”

D’Artagnan walked quickly in the direction indicated, and found one of those exterior staircases that are still to be seen in the yards of our old-fashioned taverns. But there was no getting at the place of sojourn of the future abbe; the defiles of the chamber of Aramis were as well guarded as the gardens of Armida. Bazin was stationed in the corridor, and barred his passage with the more intrepidity that, after many years of trial, Bazin found himself near a result of which he had ever been ambitious.
达达尼昂沿着指示的方向快步走去，找到了我们老式酒馆院子里至今仍可见的外部楼梯之一。但没有到达未来神甫的寄居地。阿拉米斯的房间的狭窄通道和阿尔米达的花园一样受到严密的守卫。巴赞驻扎在走廊里，并以更加无畏的态度阻止了他的通行，经过多年的尝试，巴赞发现自己已经接近他曾经雄心勃勃的结果了。

In fact, the dream of poor Bazin had always been to serve a churchman; and he awaited with impatience the moment, always in the future, when Aramis would throw aside the uniform and assume the cassock. The daily-renewed promise of the young man that the moment would not long be delayed, had alone kept him in the service of a Musketeer—a service in which, he said, his soul was in constant jeopardy.
事实上，可怜的巴赞的梦想一直是为一名牧师服务。他焦急地等待着阿拉米斯抛开制服穿上法衣的那一刻，永远是在未来。年轻人每天都重申这一时刻不会拖延太久，这一承诺让他继续为火枪手服务——他说，在这种服务中，他的灵魂不断处于危险之中。

Bazin was then at the height of joy. In all probability, this time his master would not retract. The union of physical pain with moral uneasiness had produced the effect so long desired. Aramis, suffering at once in body and mind, had at length fixed his eyes and his thoughts upon religion, and he had considered as a warning from heaven the double accident which had happened to him; that is to say, the sudden disappearance of his mistress and the wound in his shoulder.
巴赞此时欣喜若狂。恐怕这一次，他的主人不会收回了。身体上的痛苦与道德上的不安结合在一起，产生了人们渴望已久的效果。身体和心灵同时遭受痛苦的阿拉米斯最终将他的目光和思想集中在宗教上，他认为发生在他身上的双重事故是来自上天的警告。也就是说，他情妇的突然失踪和他肩膀上的伤口。

It may be easily understood that in the present disposition of his master nothing could be more disagreeable to Bazin than the arrival of d’Artagnan, which might cast his master back again into that vortex of mundane affairs which had so long carried him away. He resolved, then, to defend the door bravely; and as, betrayed by the mistress of the inn, he could not say that Aramis was absent, he endeavored to prove to the newcomer that it would be the height of indiscretion to disturb his master in his pious conference, which had commenced with the morning and would not, as Bazin said, terminate before night.
不难理解，就巴赞目前的性格而言，没有什么比达达尼昂的到来更让巴赞感到不快的了，达达尼昂的到来可能会让他的主人再次陷入长期以来把他卷走的世俗事务的漩涡中。于是，他决定勇敢地守住大门。由于被客栈女主人出卖，他不能说阿拉米斯缺席，他努力向新来者证明，在他的主人从早上开始的虔诚会议中打扰他是极其不检点的行为。正如巴赞所说，不会在夜晚之前结束。

But d’Artagnan took very little heed of the eloquent discourse of M. Bazin; and as he had no desire to support a polemic discussion with his friend’s valet, he simply moved him out of the way with one hand, and with the other turned the handle of the door of Number Five. The door opened, and d’Artagnan went into the chamber.
但达达尼昂对巴赞先生的雄辩演讲毫不在意。由于他不想与朋友的贴身男仆进行争论，所以他只是用一只手将他移开，另一只手转动五号门的把手。门开了，达达尼昂走进房间。

Aramis, in a black gown, his head enveloped in a sort of round flat cap, not much unlike a CALOTTE, was seated before an oblong table, covered with rolls of paper and enormous volumes in folio. At his right hand was placed the superior of the Jesuits, and on his left the curate of Montdidier. The curtains were half drawn, and only admitted the mysterious light calculated for beatific reveries. All the mundane objects that generally strike the eye on entering the room of a young man, particularly when that young man is a Musketeer, had disappeared as if by enchantment; and for fear, no doubt, that the sight of them might bring his master back to ideas of this world, Bazin had laid his hands upon sword, pistols, plumed hat, and embroideries and laces of all kinds and sorts. In their stead d’Artagnan thought he perceived in an obscure corner a discipline cord suspended from a nail in the wall.
阿拉米斯身穿黑色长袍，头戴一顶圆形平顶帽，与卡洛特帽没什么两样，他坐在一张长方形桌子前，桌子上摆满了纸卷和大卷的对开本。在他的右手边坐着耶稣会士的上级，左边是蒙迪迪埃神父。窗帘半拉着，只透进了为美好遐想而设计的神秘光线。进入年轻人房间时，尤其是当年轻人是火枪手时，所有通常引人注目的平凡物品都像施了魔法一样消失了；毫无疑问，因为害怕看到它们会让他的主人回到这个世界的想法，巴赞把手放在剑、手枪、羽毛帽、各种刺绣和花边上。相反，达达尼昂认为他在一个不起眼的角落里看到了一根从墙上的钉子上垂下来的纪律绳。

At the noise made by d’Artagnan in entering, Aramis lifted up his head, and beheld his friend; but to the great astonishment of the young man, the sight of him did not produce much effect upon the Musketeer, so completely was his mind detached from the things of this world.
听到达达尼昂进来的声音，阿拉米斯抬起头，看到了他的朋友。但令年轻人大吃一惊的是，他的目光并没有对火枪手产生太大的影响，他的思想完全脱离了这个世界的事物。

‘Good day, dear d’Artagnan,’ said Aramis; ‘believe me, I am glad to see you.’
“美好的一天，亲爱的达达尼昂，”阿拉米斯说。 “相信我，我很高兴见到你。”

‘So am I delighted to see you,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘although I am not yet sure that it is Aramis I am speaking to.’
“见到你我很高兴，”达达尼昂说，“虽然我还不确定我正在和阿拉米斯说话。”

‘To himself, my friend, to himself! But what makes you doubt it?’
“为了他自己，我的朋友，为了他自己！但是什么让你对此产生怀疑呢？

‘I was afraid I had made a mistake in the chamber, and that I had found my way into the apartment of some churchman. Then another error seized me on seeing you in company with these gentlemen—I was afraid you were dangerously ill.’
“我担心我在房间里犯了一个错误，我进入了某个牧师的公寓。然后，当我看到你和这些先生在一起时，我又犯了一个错误——我担心你病得很危险。

The two men in black, who guessed d’Artagnan’s meaning, darted at him a glance which might have been thought threatening; but d’Artagnan took no heed of it.
两个黑衣人猜出了达达尼昂的意思，用一种可能被认为是威胁的眼神扫了他一眼。但达达尼昂没有在意。

‘I disturb you, perhaps, my dear Aramis,’ continued d’Artagnan, ‘for by what I see, I am led to believe that you are confessing to these gentlemen.’
“也许我打扰了你，我亲爱的阿拉米斯，”达达尼昂继续说道，“因为根据我所看到的，我相信你正在向这些先生们坦白。”

Aramis colored imperceptibly. ‘You disturb me? Oh, quite the contrary, dear friend, I swear; and as a proof of what I say, permit me to declare I am rejoiced to see you safe and sound.’
阿拉米斯的脸色微不可察。 ‘你打扰我了？哦，恰恰相反，亲爱的朋友，我发誓；为了证明我所说的话，请允许我宣布我很高兴看到你安然无恙。

‘Ah, he’ll come round,’ thought d’Artagnan; ‘that’s not bad!’
“啊，他会醒过来的，”达达尼昂想。 “那还不错！”

‘This gentleman, who is my friend, has just escaped from a serious danger,’ continued Aramis, with unction, pointing to d’Artagnan with his hand, and addressing the two ecclesiastics.
“这位先生，我的朋友，刚刚摆脱了严重的危险，”阿拉米斯继续涂油，用手指向达达尼昂，对两位神职人员说道。

‘Praise God, monsieur,’ replied they, bowing together.
“赞美上帝，先生。”他们回答道，一起鞠躬。

‘I have not failed to do so, your Reverences,’ replied the young man, returning their salutation.
“尊敬的阁下，我并没有失败。”年轻人回答道，同时也向他们行礼。

‘You arrive in good time, dear d’Artagnan,’ said Aramis, ‘and by taking part in our discussion may assist us with your intelligence. Monsieur the Principal of Amiens, Monsieur the Curate of Montdidier, and I are arguing certain theological questions in which we have been much interested; I shall be delighted to have your opinion.’
“你来得正是时候，亲爱的达达尼昂，”阿拉米斯说，“参加我们的讨论可能会帮助我们了解你的智慧。亚眠校长先生、蒙迪迪埃牧师先生和我正在争论一些我们非常感兴趣的神学问题；我将很高兴听到你的意见。

‘The opinion of a swordsman can have very little weight,’ replied d’Artagnan, who began to be uneasy at the turn things were taking, ‘and you had better be satisfied, believe me, with the knowledge of these gentlemen.’
“剑客的意见没有什么分量，”达达尼昂回答道，他在事态发展时开始感到不安，“相信我，你最好对这些先生们的知识感到满意。”

The two men in black bowed in their turn.
两名黑衣人依次行礼。

‘On the contrary,’ replied Aramis, ‘your opinion will be very valuable. The question is this: Monsieur the Principal thinks that my thesis ought to be dogmatic and didactic.’
“恰恰相反，”阿拉米斯回答道，“你的意见非常有价值。”问题是这样的：校长先生认为我的论文应该是教条性的和说教性的。

‘Your thesis! Are you then making a thesis?’
‘你的论文！那你要写论文吗？

‘Without doubt,’ replied the Jesuit. ‘In the examination which precedes ordination, a thesis is always a requisite.’
“毫无疑问，”耶稣会士回答道。 “在任命前的考试中，论文始终是必需的。”

‘Ordination!’ cried d’Artagnan, who could not believe what the hostess and Bazin had successively told him; and he gazed, half stupefied, upon the three persons before him.
“任命！”达达尼昂喊道，他简直不敢相信女主人和巴赞相继告诉他的话。他半愕然地看着面前的三个人。

‘Now,’ continued Aramis, taking the same graceful position in his easy chair that he would have assumed in bed, and complacently examining his hand, which was as white and plump as that of a woman, and which he held in the air to cause the blood to descend, ‘now, as you have heard, d’Artagnan, Monsieur the Principal is desirous that my thesis should be dogmatic, while I, for my part, would rather it should be ideal. This is the reason why Monsieur the Principal has proposed to me the following subject, which has not yet been treated upon, and in which I perceive there is matter for magnificent elaboration-’UTRAQUE MANUS IN BENEDICENDO CLERICIS INFERIORIBUS NECESSARIA EST.’’
“现在，”阿拉米斯继续说道，他在安乐椅上采取了他在床上时会采取的同样优雅的姿势，并得意地检查着他的手，他的手像女人的手一样白皙而丰满，他把它举在空中，以观察他的手。导致血液下降，“现在，正如你所听到的，达达尼昂，校长先生希望我的论文应该是教条性的，而我，就我而言，宁愿它应该是理想的。这就是校长先生向我提出以下主题的原因，该主题尚未得到处理，但我认为其中有需要进行详细阐述的内容 - “UTRAQUE MANUS IN BENEDICENDO CLERICIS INFERIORIBUS NECESSARIA EST”。

D’Artagnan, whose erudition we are well acquainted with, evinced no more interest on hearing this quotation than he had at that of M. de Treville in allusion to the gifts he pretended that d’Artagnan had received from the Duke of Buckingham.
达达尼昂的博学我们很熟悉，但他对这句话的兴趣并不比对德特雷维尔先生的引文表现出更大的兴趣，德特雷维尔先生暗示达达尼昂假装达达尼昂从白金汉公爵那里收到了礼物。

‘Which means,’ resumed Aramis, that he might perfectly understand, ‘‘The two hands are indispensable for priests of the inferior orders, when they bestow the benediction.’’
“这意味着，”阿拉米斯继续说道，以便他能够完全理解，“对于低等等级的祭司来说，当他们给予祝福时，两只手是必不可少的。”

‘An admirable subject!’ cried the Jesuit.
“一个令人钦佩的话题！”耶稣会士喊道。

‘Admirable and dogmatic!’ repeated the curate, who, about as strong as d’Artagnan with respect to Latin, carefully watched the Jesuit in order to keep step with him, and repeated his words like an echo.
“令人钦佩，而且教条主义！”神甫重复道，他的拉丁语水平与达达尼昂一样强，他小心翼翼地注视着耶稣会士，以便跟上他的步伐，并像回声一样重复着他的话。

As to d’Artagnan, he remained perfectly insensible to the enthusiasm of the two men in black.
至于达达尼昂，他对两个黑衣人的热情完全没有感觉。

‘Yes, admirable! PRORSUS ADMIRABILE!’ continued Aramis; ‘but which requires a profound study of both the Scriptures and the Fathers. Now, I have confessed to these learned ecclesiastics, and that in all humility, that the duties of mounting guard and the service of the king have caused me to neglect study a little. I should find myself, therefore, more at my ease, FACILUS NATANS, in a subject of my own choice, which would be to these hard theological questions what morals are to metaphysics in philosophy.’
‘是啊，令人钦佩！阿拉米斯继续说道：“普罗苏斯令人钦佩！” ‘但这需要对圣经和教父的深入研究。现在，我已经谦卑地向这些博学的神职人员承认，侍卫的职责和为国王服务的职责使我有点忽视了学习。因此，我应该发现自己在自己选择的主题上更加轻松，法西鲁斯·纳坦斯，这对于这些困难的神学问题来说就像道德对于哲学中的形而上学一样。

D’Artagnan began to be tired, and so did the curate.
达达尼昂开始感到疲倦，神甫也感到疲倦。

‘See what an exordium!’ cried the Jesuit.
“看，多么精彩的序言啊！”耶稣会士喊道。

‘Exordium,’ repeated the curate, for the sake of saying something. ‘QUEMADMODUM INTER COELORUM IMMENSITATEM.’
“序言，”神甫为了说些什么而重复了一遍。 “QUEMADMODUM INTER COELORUM IMMENSITATEM。”

Aramis cast a glance upon d’Artagnan to see what effect all this produced, and found his friend gaping enough to split his jaws.
阿拉米斯看了一眼达达尼昂，想看看这一切会产生什么效果，却发现他的朋友张大了嘴，下巴都裂开了。

‘Let us speak French, my father,’ said he to the Jesuit; ‘Monsieur d’Artagnan will enjoy our conversation better.’
“父亲，我们说法语吧，”他对耶稣会士说。 “达达尼昂先生会更喜欢我们的谈话。”

‘Yes,’ replied d’Artagnan; ‘I am fatigued with reading, and all this Latin confuses me.’
“是的，”达达尼昂回答道。 “我厌倦了阅读，所有这些拉丁语都让我困惑。”

‘Certainly,’ replied the Jesuit, a little put out, while the curate, greatly delighted, turned upon d’Artagnan a look full of gratitude. ‘Well, let us see what is to be derived from this gloss. Moses, the servant of God-he was but a servant, please to understand-Moses blessed with the hands; he held out both his arms while the Hebrews beat their enemies, and then he blessed them with his two hands. Besides, what does the Gospel say? IMPONITE MANUS, and not MANUM-place the HANDS, not the HAND.’
“当然，”耶稣会士回答道，他有点不高兴，而牧师则非常高兴，向达达尼昂投去充满感激的目光。 ‘好吧，让我们看看从这个注释中可以得出什么。摩西，上帝的仆人——他只是一个仆人，请理解——摩西用手祝福；当希伯来人击败他们的敌人时，他伸出双臂，然后他用两只手祝福他们。此外，福音说了什么？ IMPONITE MANUS，而不是MANUM——放的是手，而不是手。

‘Place the HANDS,’ repeated the curate, with a gesture.
“把手放好，”牧师做了个手势重复道。

‘St. Peter, on the contrary, of whom the Popes are the successors,’ continued the Jesuit; ‘PORRIGE DIGITOS-present the fingers. Are you there, now?’
'英石。相反，彼得是教皇的继承人，”耶稣会士继续说道。 ‘PORRIGE DIGITOS-伸出手指。你现在在吗？

‘CERTES,’ replied Aramis, in a pleased tone, ‘but the thing is subtle.’
“确实如此，”阿拉米斯用愉快的语气回答，“但这件事很微妙。”

‘The FINGERS,’ resumed the Jesuit, ‘St. Peter blessed with the FINGERS. The Pope, therefore blesses with the fingers. And with how many fingers does he bless? With THREE fingers, to be sureone for the Father, one for the Son, and one for the Holy Ghost.’
“手指，”耶稣会士继续说道，“圣约翰。”彼得用手指祝福。因此，教皇用手指祝福。他用多少根手指祝福？用三个手指，可以肯定的是，一根手指代表圣父，一根手指代表圣子，一根手指代表圣灵。

All crossed themselves. D’Artagnan thought it was proper to follow this example.
所有人都画了十字。达达尼昂认为效仿这个例子是正确的。

‘The Pope is the successor of St. Peter, and represents the three divine powers; the rest-ORDINES INFERIORES-of the ecclesiastical hierarchy bless in the name of the holy archangels and angels. The most humble clerks such as our deacons and sacristans, bless with holy water sprinklers, which resemble an infinite number of blessing fingers. There is the subject simplified. ARGUMENTUM OMNI DENUDATUM ORNAMENTO. I could make of that subject two volumes the size of this,’ continued the Jesuit; and in his enthusiasm he struck a St. Chrysostom in folio, which made the table bend beneath its weight.
‘教皇是圣彼得的继承者，代表着三种神圣力量；教会等级制度的其余部分——下级命令——以神圣大天使和天使的名义祝福。最卑微的职员，例如我们的执事和圣器管理员，都会用圣水洒水器进行祝福，这些洒水器就像无数的祝福手指。主题被简化了。 ARGUMENTUM OMNI DENUDATUM ORNAMENTO。我可以把这个主题写成两本书那么大，”耶稣会士继续说道。在他的热情中，他敲出了对开的圣金口，这使得桌子在其重量下弯曲。

D’Artagnan trembled.
达达尼昂浑身发抖。

‘CERTES,’ said Aramis, ‘I do justice to the beauties of this thesis; but at the same time I perceive it would be overwhelming for me. I had chosen this text-tell me, dear d’Artagnan, if it is not to your taste-’NON INUTILE EST DESIDERIUM IN OBLATIONE’; that is, ‘A little regret is not unsuitable in an offering to the Lord.’’
“当然，”阿拉米斯说，“我公正地评价了这篇论文的优点；但同时我也意识到这对我来说是难以承受的。我选择了这段文字——告诉我，亲爱的达达尼昂，如果它不合你的口味——“NON INUTILE EST DESIDERIUM IN OBLATIONE”；也就是说，“献给主时，有一点遗憾，并无不妥。”

‘Stop there!’ cried the Jesuit, ‘for that thesis touches closely upon heresy. There is a proposition almost like it in the AUGUSTINUS of the heresiarch Jansenius, whose book will sooner or later be burned by the hands of the executioner. Take care, my young friend. You are inclining toward false doctrines, my young friend; you will be lost.’
“到此为止！”耶稣会士喊道，“因为这篇论文密切涉及异端邪说。异端教头詹森尼乌斯的《奥古斯丁》中也有类似的主张，他的书迟早会被刽子手烧毁。保重，我年轻的朋友。我年轻的朋友，你正在倾向于错误的教义；你会迷路的。

‘You will be lost,’ said the curate, shaking his head sorrowfully.
“你会迷路的，”牧师悲伤地摇着头说道。

‘You approach that famous point of free will which is a mortal rock. You face the insinuations of the Pelagians and the semiPelagians.’
‘你接近了那个著名的自由意志点，它是一块凡人的岩石。你面临着伯拉纠派和半伯拉纠派的暗示。

‘But, my Reverend-’ replied Aramis, a little amazed by the shower of arguments that poured upon his head.
“但是，我的牧师——”阿拉米斯回答道，他对纷至沓来的争论感到有点惊讶。

‘How will you prove,’ continued the Jesuit, without allowing him time to speak, ‘that we ought to regret the world when we offer ourselves to God? Listen to this dilemma: God is God, and the world is the devil. To regret the world is to regret the devil; that is my conclusion.’
“你如何证明，”耶稣会士继续说道，不给他时间说话，“当我们将自己奉献给上帝时，我们应该为这个世界感到遗憾？听听这个困境：上帝是上帝，世界是魔鬼。悔世，就是悔魔；悔罪，就是悔罪。这就是我的结论。

‘And that is mine also,’ said the curate.
“那也是我的，”牧师说。

‘But, for heaven’s sake-’ resumed Aramis.
“但是，看在上帝的份上——”阿拉米斯继续说道。

‘DESIDERAS DIABOLUM, unhappy man!’ cried the Jesuit.
“德赛德拉斯·迪亚波卢姆，不幸的人！”耶稣会士喊道。

‘He regrets the devil! Ah, my young friend,’ added the curate, groaning, ‘do not regret the devil, I implore you!’
‘他后悔死了！啊，我年轻的朋友，”牧师呻吟着补充道，“不要后悔，我恳求你！”

D’Artagnan felt himself bewildered. It seemed to him as though he were in a madhouse, and was becoming as mad as those he saw. He was, however, forced to hold his tongue from not comprehending half the language they employed.
达达尼昂感到自己很困惑。他觉得自己仿佛置身于疯人院，而且正变得像他所看到的那些人一样疯狂。然而，他被迫闭嘴，因为他听不懂他们所使用的语言的一半。

‘But listen to me, then,’ resumed Aramis with politeness mingled with a little impatience. ‘I do not say I regret; no, I will never pronounce that sentence, which would not be orthodox.’
“那么，请听我说，”阿拉米斯礼貌又夹杂着一点不耐烦地说道。 ‘我并不是说我后悔；不，我永远不会说出那句话，这不是正统的。”

The Jesuit raised his hands toward heaven, and the curate did the same.
耶稣会士向天举起双手，牧师也向天举起双手。

‘No; but pray grant me that it is acting with an ill grace to offer to the Lord only that with which we are perfectly disgusted! Don’t you think so, d’Artagnan?’
'不;但请允许我明白，只向主奉献我们完全厌恶的东西是一种不道德的行为！你不这么认为吗，达达尼昂？

‘I think so, indeed,’ cried he.
“我确实这么认为，”他喊道。

The Jesuit and the curate quite started from their chairs.
耶稣会士和神甫从椅子上惊了起来。

‘This is the point of departure; it is a syllogism. The world is not wanting in attractions. I quit the world; then I make a sacrifice. Now, the Scripture says positively, ‘Make a sacrifice unto the Lord.’’
‘这是出发点；这是一个三段论。世界并不缺少景点。我离开了这个世界；然后我做出牺牲。圣经明确地说：“要向耶和华献祭。”

‘That is true,’ said his antagonists.
“确实如此，”他的对手说。

‘And then,’ said Aramis, pinching his ear to make it red, as he rubbed his hands to make them white, ‘and then I made a certain RONDEAU upon it last year, which I showed to Monsieur Voiture, and that great man paid me a thousand compliments.’
“然后，”阿拉米斯一边说，一边捏住自己的耳朵，让它变红，同时又搓搓双手，让它们变白，“然后我去年在上面做了一首朗多，我把它拿给沃伊图尔先生和那位伟人看。”给了我一千个赞美。

‘A RONDEAU!’ said the Jesuit, disdainfully.
“一首回旋曲！”耶稣会士轻蔑地说。

‘A RONDEAU!’ said the curate, mechanically.
“一首回旋曲！”神甫机械地说道。

‘Repeat it! Repeat it!’ cried d’Artagnan; ‘it will make a little change.’
'重复！ “重复一遍！”达达尼昂喊道。 “这会带来一点改变。”

‘Not so, for it is religious,’ replied Aramis; ‘it is theology in verse.’
“不是这样，因为它是宗教性的，”阿拉米斯回答道。 “这是诗歌中的神学。”

‘The devil!’ said d’Artagnan.
“魔鬼！”达达尼昂说。

‘Here it is,’ said Aramis, with a little look of diffidence, which, however, was not exempt from a shade of hypocrisy:
“就是这个了，”阿拉米斯说道，脸上带着一丝自信，但也不免带有一丝虚伪：

‘Vous qui pleurez un passe plein de charmes, Et qui trainez des jours infortunes, Tous vos malheurs se verront termines, Quand a Dieu seul vous offrirez vos larmes, Vous qui pleurez!’
“Vous qui pleurez un passe plein de charmes，Et qui trainez des jours infortunes，Tous vos malheurs se verront termines，Quand a Dieu seul vous offrirez vos larmes，Vous qui pleurez！”

‘You who weep for pleasures fled, While dragging on a life of care, All your woes will melt in air, If to God your tears are shed, You who weep!’
“你们为快乐而哭泣的人逃离了，在拖着忧愁的生活的同时，你们所有的痛苦都将融化在空气中，如果你们的眼泪流向上帝，你们哭泣的人！”

d’Artagnan and the curate appeared pleased. The Jesuit persisted in his opinion. ‘Beware of a profane taste in your theological style. What says Augustine on this subject: ‘SEVERUS SIT CLERICORUM VERBO.’’
达达尼昂和神甫看上去很高兴。耶稣会士坚持他的观点。 ‘当心你的神学风格中的亵渎品味。奥古斯丁在这个问题上怎么说：“西弗勒斯坐在 CLERICORUUM VERBO 上。”

‘Yes, let the sermon be clear,’ said the curate.
“是的，让布道说清楚，”牧师说。

‘Now,’ hastily interrupted the Jesuit, on seeing that his acolyte was going astray, ‘now your thesis would please the ladies; it would have the success of one of Monsieur Patru’s pleadings.’
“现在，”耶稣会士看到他的助手误入歧途，急忙打断道，“现在你的论文会让女士们满意了；现在你的论文将让女士们满意；现在，你的论文将让女士们高兴；现在，你的论文将让女士们高兴；现在，你的论文将让女士们高兴；现在，你的论文将让女士们满意。”帕特鲁先生的一项诉求将会获得成功。

‘Please God!’ cried Aramis, transported.
“上帝保佑！”阿拉米斯激动地喊道。

‘There it is,’ cried the Jesuit; ‘the world still speaks within you in a loud voice, ALTISIMMA VOCE. You follow the world, my young friend, and I tremble lest grace prove not efficacious.’
“就在这里，”耶稣会士喊道。 “世界仍然在你内心大声说话，ALTISIMMA VOCE。你追随这个世界，我年轻的朋友，我颤抖着，唯恐恩典不起作用。

‘Be satisfied, my reverend father, I can answer for myself.’
“请放心，尊敬的父亲，我可以为自己负责。”

‘Mundane presumption!’
“世俗的假设！”

‘I know myself, Father; my resolution is irrevocable.’
“我了解我自己，父亲；我的决定是不可撤销的。”

‘Then you persist in continuing that thesis?’
“那么你坚持继续那个论文吗？”

‘I feel myself called upon to treat that, and no other. I will see about the continuation of it, and tomorrow I hope you will be satisfied with the corrections I shall have made in consequence of your advice.’
“我觉得自己有责任去治疗这个，而不是其他。”我会考虑继续进行，明天我希望您对我根据您的建议所做的更正感到满意。

‘Work slowly,’ said the curate; ‘we leave you in an excellent tone of mind.’
“慢慢来，”牧师说。 “我们让您保持良好的心态。”

‘Yes, the ground is all sown,’ said the Jesuit, ‘and we have not to fear that one portion of the seed may have fallen upon stone, another upon the highway, or that the birds of heaven have eaten the rest, AVES COELI COMEDERUNT ILLAM.’
“是的，地里都撒下了种子，”耶稣会士说，“我们不必担心种子的一部分落在石头上，另一部分落在公路上，或者天上的鸟儿吃掉了其余的种子，艾夫斯COELI COMEDERUNT ILLAM。

‘Plague stifle you and your Latin!’ said d’Artagnan, who began to feel all his patience exhausted.
“瘟疫会扼杀你和你的拉丁语！”达达尼昂说道，他开始感到自己所有的耐心都耗尽了。

‘Farewell, my son,’ said the curate, ‘till tomorrow.’
“再见，我的孩子，”牧师说，“明天见。”

‘Till tomorrow, rash youth,’ said the Jesuit. ‘You promise to become one of the lights of the Church. Heaven grant that this light prove not a devouring fire!’
“明天见，鲁莽的年轻人，”耶稣会士说。 ‘你承诺成为教会的光明之一。愿上帝保佑这道光不是吞噬之火！”

D’Artagnan, who for an hour past had been gnawing his nails with impatience, was beginning to attack the quick.
一个小时过去了，达达尼昂一直在不耐烦地咬着指甲，现在他开始攻击对手了。

The two men in black rose, bowed to Aramis and d’Artagnan, and advanced toward the door. Bazin, who had been standing listening to all this controversy with a pious jubilation, sprang toward them, took the breviary of the curate and the missal of the Jesuit, and walked respectfully before them to clear their way.
两个黑衣人起身，向阿拉米斯和达达尼昂鞠了一躬，然后朝门口走去。巴赞一直站着，怀着虔诚的喜悦听着所有这些争论，他跳向他们，拿着牧师的祈祷书和耶稣会士的弥撒书，恭敬地走在他们前面，为他们让路。

Aramis conducted them to the foot of the stairs, and then immediately came up again to d’Artagnan, whose senses were still in a state of confusion.
阿拉米斯领着他们走到楼梯口，然后立刻又来到达达尼昂身边，达达尼昂的感官还处于混乱状态。

When left alone, the two friends at first kept an embarrassed silence. It however became necessary for one of them to break it first, and as d’Artagnan appeared determined to leave that honor to his companion, Aramis said, ‘you see that I am returned to my fundamental ideas.’
独处时，这两个朋友起初保持着尴尬的沉默。然而，他们中的一个人必须首先打破它，当达达尼昂似乎决心把这一荣誉留给他的同伴时，阿拉米斯说，“你看，我又回到了我的基本思想上。”

‘Yes, efficacious grace has touched you, as that gentleman said just now.’
“是的，灵丹妙药感动了你，正如那位先生刚才所说的那样。”

‘Oh, these plans of retreat have been formed for a long time. You have often heard me speak of them, have you not, my friend?’
‘哦，这些撤退的计划已经制定很久了。你经常听我谈起它们，不是吗，我的朋友？

‘Yes; but I confess I always thought you jested.’
'是的;但我承认我一直以为你在开玩笑。

‘With such things! Oh, d’Artagnan!’
‘有这样的东西！哦，达达尼昂！

‘The devil! Why, people jest with death.’
'恶魔！为什么，人们拿死亡开玩笑。

‘And people are wrong, d’Artagnan; for death is the door which leads to perdition or to salvation.’
“人们错了，达达尼昂；因为死亡是通向灭亡或拯救的大门。

‘Granted; but if you please, let us not theologize, Aramis. You must have had enough for today. As for me, I have almost forgotten the little Latin I have ever known. Then I confess to you that I have eaten nothing since ten o’clock this morning, and I am devilish hungry.’
'的确;但如果你愿意的话，让我们不要神学化，阿拉米斯。今天你一定已经受够了。至于我，我几乎忘记了我所知道的一点拉丁语。那我向你坦白，从今天早上十点开始我就没有吃过东西了，我饿得要命。

‘We will dine directly, my friend; only you must please to remember that this is Friday. Now, on such a day I can neither eat flesh nor see it eaten. If you can be satisfied with my dinner-it consists of cooked tetragones and fruits.’
“我们直接吃饭，我的朋友；只是你必须记住今天是星期五。现在，在这样的日子里，我既不能吃肉，也不能看到它被吃。如果你对我的晚餐感到满意的话——它包括煮熟的四角果和水果。

‘What do you mean by tetragones?’ asked d’Artagnan, uneasily.
“四方是什么意思？”达达尼昂不安地问道。

‘I mean spinach,’ replied Aramis; ‘but on your account I will add some eggs, and that is a serious infraction of the rule-for eggs are meat, since they engender chickens.’
“我指的是菠菜，”阿拉米斯回答道。 “但是为了你的缘故，我要加一些鸡蛋，这严重违反了鸡蛋是肉的规则，因为它们生出鸡。”

‘This feast is not very succulent; but never mind, I will put up with it for the sake of remaining with you.’
‘这场盛宴并不多汁；但没关系，为了和你在一起，我会忍受。”

‘I am grateful to you for the sacrifice,’ said Aramis; ‘but if your body be not greatly benefited by it, be assured your soul will.’
“我感谢你的牺牲，”阿拉米斯说。 “但如果你的身体没有从中受益匪浅，请放心，你的灵魂一定会受益匪浅。”

‘And so, Aramis, you are decidedly going into the Church? What will our two friends say? What will Monsieur de Treville say? They will treat you as a deserter, I warn you.’
“所以，阿拉米斯，你决定要进入教堂吗？”我们的两个朋友会说什么？德特雷维尔先生会说什么？我警告你，他们会把你当作逃兵对待。

‘I do not enter the Church; I re-enter it. I deserted the Church for the world, for you know that I forced myself when I became a Musketeer.’
“我不进入教堂；我重新输入。我为了世界而抛弃了教会，因为你知道，当我成为一名火枪手时，我强迫自己。

‘I? I know nothing about it.’
'我？我对此一无所知。

‘You don’t know I quit the seminary?’
“你不知道我退了神学院吗？”

‘Not at all.’
'一点也不。'

‘This is my story, then. Besides, the Scriptures say, ‘Confess yourselves to one another,’ and I confess to you, d’Artagnan.’
‘那么，这就是我的故事。此外，圣经上说：“你们要互相坦白。”我向你坦白，达达尼昂。

‘And I give you absolution beforehand. You see I am a good sort of a man.’
“我事先就赦免了你。你看我是一个好人。

‘Do not jest about holy things, my friend.’
“不要拿神圣的事情开玩笑，我的朋友。”

‘Go on, then, I listen.’
“那你继续说吧，我听着。”

‘I had been at the seminary from nine years old; in three days I should have been twenty. I was about to become an abbe, and all was arranged. One evening I went, according to custom, to a house which I frequented with much pleasure: when one is young, what can be expected?—one is weak. An officer who saw me, with a jealous eye, reading the LIVES OF THE SAINTS to the mistress of the house, entered suddenly and without being announced. That evening I had translated an episode of Judith, and had just communicated my verses to the lady, who gave me all sorts of compliments, and leaning on my shoulder, was reading them a second time with me. Her pose, which I must admit was rather free, wounded this officer. He said nothing; but when I went out he followed, and quickly came up with me. ‘Monsieur the Abbe,’ said he, ‘do you like blows with a cane?’ ‘I cannot say, monsieur,’ answered I; ‘no one has ever dared to give me any.’ ‘Well, listen to me, then, Monsieur the Abbe! If you venture again into the house in which I have met you this evening, I will dare it myself.’ I really think I must have been frightened. I became very pale; I felt my legs fail me; I sought for a reply, but could find none-I was silent. The officer waited for his reply, and seeing it so long coming, he burst into a laugh, turned upon his heel, and re-entered the house. I returned to the seminary.
“我从九岁起就在神学院；三天后我就二十岁了。我即将成为神父，一切都安排好了。一天晚上，我按照惯例来到一所我经常光顾的房子：年轻时，还能指望什么呢？——人很弱。一位军官看到我用嫉妒的眼光给女主人朗读《圣徒传》，就突然进来了，没有通知。那天晚上，我翻译了《朱迪思》的一集，刚刚把我的诗句传达给那位女士，她给了我各种各样的赞美，靠在我的肩膀上，和我一起读第二遍。我必须承认，她的姿势相当自由，伤害了这位军官。他什么也没说；但当我出去的时候，他就跟了过来，很快就追上来了。 “神甫先生，”他说，“您喜欢用拐杖打吗？” “我不能说，先生，”我回答道。 “从来没有人敢给我任何东西。” “那么，听我说，神甫先生！如果你再次冒险进入我今晚见到你的房子，我自己也敢这么做。”我真的觉得我一定是害怕了。我的脸色变得非常苍白；我感觉我的双腿无力了；我寻找答案，却找不到答案——我沉默了。军官等待着他的答复，见他等了这么久，他突然大笑起来，转身重新进了屋。我回到神学院。

‘I am a gentleman born, and my blood is warm, as you may have remarked, my dear d’Artagnan. The insult was terrible, and although unknown to the rest of the world, I felt it live and fester at the bottom of my heart. I informed my superiors that I did not feel myself sufficiently prepared for ordination, and at my request the ceremony was postponed for a year. I sought out the best fencing master in Paris, I made an agreement with him to take a lesson every day, and every day for a year I took that lesson. Then, on the anniversary of the day on which I had been insulted, I hung my cassock on a peg, assumed the costume of a cavalier, and went to a ball given by a lady friend of mine and to which I knew my man was invited. It was in the Rue des France-Bourgeois, close to La Force. As I expected, my officer was there. I went up to him as he was singing a love ditty and looking tenderly at a lady, and interrupted him exactly in the middle of the second couplet. ‘Monsieur,’ said I, ‘does it still displease you that I should frequent a certain house of La Rue Payenne? And would you still cane me if I took it into my head to disobey you? The officer looked at me with astonishment, and then said, ‘What is your business with me, monsieur? I do not know you.’ ‘I am,’ said I, ‘the little abbe who reads LIVES OF THE SAINTS, and translates Judith into verse.’ ‘Ah, ah! I recollect now,’ said the officer, in a jeering tone; ‘well, what do you want with me?’ ‘I want you to spare time to take a walk with me.’ ‘Tomorrow morning, if you like, with the greatest pleasure.’ ‘No, not tomorrow morning, if you please, but immediately.’ ‘If you absolutely insist.’ ‘I do insist upon it.’ ‘Come, then. Ladies,’ said the officer, ‘do not disturb yourselves; allow me time just to kill this gentleman, and I will return and finish the last couplet.’
“我是一位天生的绅士，我的血液是温暖的，正如你可能已经说过的，我亲爱的达达尼昂。这种侮辱是可怕的，虽然世界上其他人都不知道，但我感觉到它在我心底里活生生地溃烂。我告诉上司，我觉得自己没有为受戒做好充分的准备，因此在我的要求下，仪式被推迟了一年。我找到了巴黎最好的击剑大师，与他达成协议，每天上一堂课，一年来我每天都上这堂课。然后，在我被侮辱的周年纪念日，我把袈裟挂在钉子上，穿上骑士的服装，去参加我的一位女性朋友举办的舞会，我知道我的男人也参加了舞会。邀请。它位于法国布尔乔亚街，靠近拉福斯。正如我所料，我的军官就在那里。当他唱着一首情歌，温柔地看着一位女士时，我走到他身边，并在第二句中间打断了他。 “先生，”我说，“我经常去帕耶纳街的某个房子，您是否仍然不高兴？如果我心里想不听你的话，你还会打我吗？那位军官惊讶地看着我，然后说道：“先生，你找我有什么事吗？”我不认识你。” “我是，”我说，“那个读《圣徒传》，并将朱迪思翻译成诗句的小神甫。” “啊，啊！我现在想起来了，”军官用嘲笑的语气说道。 “好吧，你想和我一起做什么？”“我希望你能抽出时间和我一起散步。”“明天早上，如果你愿意的话，我非常高兴。”“不，不是明天早上，如果你愿意的话。” ” “如果你绝对坚持的话。” “我确实坚持这样做。” “那就来吧。 女士们，”军官说，“不要打扰你们自己；等我有时间杀了这位先生，我就回来写完最后一副对联。’

‘We went out. I took him to the Rue Payenne, to exactly the same spot where, a year before, at the very same hour, he had paid me the compliment I have related to you. It was a superb moonlight night. We immediately drew, and at the first pass I laid him stark dead.’
'我们出去了。我带他去了帕延街，就在同一个地方，一年前的同一时间，他曾对我说过我对你的赞美。这是一个美妙的月夜。我们立即打平，在第一次通过时我就把他打死了。

‘The devil!’ cried d’Artagnan.
“魔鬼！”达达尼昂喊道。

‘Now,’ continued Aramis, ‘as the ladies did not see the singer come back, and as he was found in the Rue Payenne with a great sword wound through his body, it was supposed that I had accommodated him thus; and the matter created some scandal which obliged me to renounce the cassock for a time. Athos, whose acquaintance I made about that period, and Porthos, who had in addition to my lessons taught me some effective tricks of fence, prevailed upon me to solicit the uniform of a Musketeer. The king entertained great regard for my father, who had fallen at the siege of Arras, and the uniform was granted. You may understand that the moment has come for me to re-enter the bosom of the Church.’
“现在，”阿拉米斯继续说道，“由于女士们没有看到这位歌手回来，而且他被发现在佩耶纳街，身上被一把大剑刺穿，所以我认为我是这样接待他的；这件事引起了一些丑闻，迫使我暂时放弃了袈裟。阿托斯是我在那个时期认识的，波托斯除了我的课程之外还教给我一些有效的击剑技巧，他们说服我索要火枪手的制服。国王非常尊重我在阿拉斯围攻战中阵亡的父亲，并授予他制服。你可能会明白，我重新进入教会怀抱的时刻已经到来。

‘And why today, rather than yesterday or tomorrow? What has happened to you today, to raise all these melancholy ideas?’
‘为什么是今天，而不是昨天或明天呢？你今天到底发生了什么事，才提出这些令人忧郁的想法？

‘This wound, my dear d’Artagnan, has been a warning to me from heaven.’
“我亲爱的达达尼昂，这个伤口是上天对我的警告。”

‘This wound? Bah, it is now nearly healed, and I am sure it is not that which gives you the most pain.’
‘这个伤口？呸，现在已经差不多痊愈了，我相信这并不是让你最痛苦的。”

‘What, then?’ said Aramis, blushing.
“那怎么办？”阿拉米斯红着脸说道。

‘You have one at heart, Aramis, one deeper and more painful—a wound made by a woman.’
“阿拉米斯，你心里有一个更深、更痛苦的伤口——一个女人造成的伤口。”

The eye of Aramis kindled in spite of himself.
阿拉米斯的眼睛不由自主地燃烧起来。

‘Ah,’ said he, dissembling his emotion under a feigned carelessness, ‘do not talk of such things, and suffer love pains? VANITAS VANITATUM! According to your idea, then, my brain is turned. And for whom-for some GRISETTE, some chambermaid with whom I have trifled in some garrison? Fie!’
“啊，”他假装漫不经心地掩饰自己的情绪，“不要说这种事，还要承受爱情的痛苦吗？”虚空虚空！按照你的想法，那么，我的脑子就转了。为了谁——为了某个格里赛特，某个我在某个驻军中与她调侃过的女仆？呸！’

‘Pardon, my dear Aramis, but I thought you carried your eyes higher.’
“抱歉，我亲爱的阿拉米斯，但我以为你把目光放得更高了。”

‘Higher? And who am I, to nourish such ambition? A poor Musketeer, a beggar, an unknown-who hates slavery, and finds himself ill-placed in the world.’
'更高？而我是谁，竟有如此野心？一个可怜的火枪手、一个乞丐、一个默默无闻的人——他讨厌奴隶制，发现自己在这个世界上处境不利。

‘Aramis, Aramis!’ cried d’Artagnan, looking at his friend with an air of doubt.
“阿拉米斯，阿拉米斯！”达达尼昂喊道，疑惑地看着他的朋友。

‘Dust I am, and to dust I return. Life is full of humiliations and sorrows,’ continued he, becoming still more melancholy; ‘all the ties which attach him to life break in the hand of man, particularly the golden ties. Oh, my dear d’Artagnan,’ resumed Aramis, giving to his voice a slight tone of bitterness, ‘trust me! Conceal your wounds when you have any; silence is the last joy of the unhappy. Beware of giving anyone the clue to your griefs; the curious suck our tears as flies suck the blood of a wounded hart.’
‘我本是尘土，我也将回归尘土。生活充满了屈辱和悲伤，”他继续说，变得更加忧郁。 “所有与生命相连的纽带，在人手中都会断裂，尤其是金色的纽带。”噢，我亲爱的达达尼昂，”阿拉米斯继续说道，他的声音里带着一丝苦涩，“相信我！有伤口时要隐藏起来；沉默是不快乐者最后的快乐。小心不要让任何人知道你的悲伤；好奇的人吸着我们的眼泪，就像苍蝇吸着受伤的雄鹿的血一样。

‘Alas, my dear Aramis,’ said d’Artagnan, in his turn heaving a profound sigh, ‘that is my story you are relating!’
“唉，我亲爱的阿拉米斯，”达达尼昂说道，他也深深地叹了口气，“这就是你所讲述的我的故事！”

‘How?’
'如何？'

‘Yes; a woman whom I love, whom I adore, has just been torn from me by force. I do not know where she is or whither they have conducted her. She is perhaps a prisoner; she is perhaps dead!’
'是的;一个我爱的、我崇拜的女人刚刚被强行从我身边夺走。我不知道她在哪里，也不知道他们把她带到了哪里。她也许是个囚犯；她也许已经死了！

‘Yes, but you have at least this consolation, that you can say to yourself she has not quit you voluntarily, that if you learn no news of her, it is because all communication with you is interdicted; while I—‘
“是的，但你至少有这样的安慰，你可以对自己说，她并没有自愿离开你，如果你没有得到她的消息，那是因为与你的所有联系都被禁止了；当我-'

‘Well?’
'出色地？'

‘Nothing,’ replied Aramis, ‘nothing.’
“没什么，”阿拉米斯回答，“没什么。”

‘So you renounce the world, then, forever; that is a settled thing—a resolution registered!’
‘那么，你就永远放弃这个世界；这是一件已解决的事情——已登记的决议！”

‘Forever! You are my friend today; tomorrow you will be no more to me than a shadow, or rather, even, you will no longer exist. As for the world, it is a sepulcher and nothing else.’
'永远！今天你是我的朋友；明天你对我来说就只是一个影子，或者更确切地说，你将不再存在。至于世界，它只是一座坟墓，除此之外什么也没有。

‘The devil! All this is very sad which you tell me.’
'恶魔！你告诉我的这一切都非常令人悲伤。

‘What will you? My vocation commands me; it carries me away.’
'你会怎样？我的使命命令我；它把我带走了。

D’Artagnan smiled, but made no answer.
达达尼昂笑了笑，但没有回答。

Aramis continued, ‘And yet, while I do belong to the earth, I wish to speak of you—of our friends.’
阿拉米斯继续说道，“然而，虽然我确实属于地球，但我想谈谈你——我们的朋友。”

‘And on my part,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘I wished to speak of you, but I find you so completely detached from everything! To love you cry, ‘Fie! Friends are shadows! The world is a sepulcher!’’
“而就我而言，”达达尼昂说，“我本来想谈谈你，但我发现你完全脱离了一切！为了爱你而哭泣，‘呸！朋友都是影子！世界是一座坟墓！”

‘Alas, you will find it so yourself,’ said Aramis, with a sigh.
“唉，你自己会发现的，”阿拉米斯叹了口气说。

‘Well, then, let us say no more about it,’ said d’Artagnan; ‘and let us burn this letter, which, no doubt, announces to you some fresh infidelity of your GRISETTE or your chambermaid.’
“那么，我们就别再说了，”达达尼昂说。 “让我们烧掉这封信，毫无疑问，这封信向您宣布了您的格里塞特或您的女服务员的一些新的不忠行为。”

‘What letter?’ cried Aramis, eagerly.
“什么信？”阿拉米斯急切地喊道。

‘A letter which was sent to your abode in your absence, and which was given to me for you.’
“这封信是在你不在的时候寄到你住处的，也是我替你转交的。”

‘But from whom is that letter?’
“但这封信是谁写的呢？”

‘Oh, from some heartbroken waiting woman, some desponding GRISETTE; from Madame de Chevreuse’s chambermaid, perhaps, who was obliged to return to Tours with her mistress, and who, in order to appear smart and attractive, stole some perfumed paper, and sealed her letter with a duchess’s coronet.’
‘哦，来自某个伤心欲绝的等待女人，某个沮丧的格里塞特；也许是谢夫勒斯夫人的女仆送来的，她不得不和她的情妇一起返回图尔，为了显得聪明和有吸引力，她偷了一些香水纸，并用公爵夫人的皇冠封住了她的信。

‘What do you say?’
'你怎么说？'

‘Hold! I must have lost it,’ said the young man maliciously, pretending to search for it. ‘But fortunately the world is a sepulcher; the men, and consequently the women, are but shadows, and love is a sentiment to which you cry, ‘Fie! Fie!’’
'抓住！我一定是把它丢了。”年轻人恶狠狠地说，假装在寻找它。 “但幸运的是，世界是一座坟墓；男人，以及女人，都不过是影子，而爱情只是一种情感，让你大喊“呸！”呸！”

‘d’Artagnan, d’Artagnan,’ cried Aramis, ‘you are killing me!’
“达达尼昂，达达尼昂，”阿拉米斯喊道，“你要杀了我！”

‘Well, here it is at last!’ said d’Artagnan, as he drew the letter from his pocket.
“好了，终于到了！”达达尼昂一边说，一边从口袋里掏出信。

Aramis made a bound, seized the letter, read it, or rather devoured it, his countenance radiant.
阿拉米斯跳了起来，抓住了信，读了它，或者更确切地说，吞下了它，他的脸容光焕发。

‘This same waiting maid seems to have an agreeable style,’ said the messenger, carelessly.
“这位侍女的风格似乎很不错。”使者漫不经心地说道。

‘Thanks, d’Artagnan, thanks!’ cried Aramis, almost in a state of delirium. ‘She was forced to return to Tours; she is not faithless; she still loves me! Come, my friend, come, let me embrace you. Happiness almost stifles me!’
“谢谢，达达尼昂，谢谢！”阿拉米斯喊道，他几乎陷入了神志不清的状态。 “她被迫返回图尔；她并非不忠；她还爱我！来吧，我的朋友，来吧，让我拥抱你。幸福几乎让我窒息！”

The two friends began to dance around the venerable St. Chrysostom, kicking about famously the sheets of the thesis, which had fallen on the floor.
两个朋友开始围着受人尊敬的圣金口跳舞，踢着掉在地板上的论文纸。

At that moment Bazin entered with the spinach and the omelet.
就在这时，巴赞端着菠菜和煎蛋卷走了进来。

‘Be off, you wretch!’ cried Aramis, throwing his skullcap in his face. ‘Return whence you came; take back those horrible vegetables, and that poor kickshaw! Order a larded hare, a fat capon, mutton leg dressed with garlic, and four bottles of old Burgundy.’
“走开，你这个坏蛋！”阿拉米斯喊道，把他的无边便帽扔到脸上。 ‘从哪里来就回哪里去吧；收回那些可怕的蔬菜，还有那辆可怜的踢车！点一只猪油野兔、一只肥阉鸡、蒜蓉羊腿和四瓶老勃艮第葡萄酒。

Bazin, who looked at his master, without comprehending the cause of this change, in a melancholy manner, allowed the omelet to slip into the spinach, and the spinach onto the floor.
巴赞看着他的主人，不明白这种变化的原因，他忧郁地任由煎蛋卷滑进菠菜里，又让菠菜滑到地板上。

‘Now this is the moment to consecrate your existence to the King of kings,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘if you persist in offering him a civility. NON INUTILE DESIDERIUM OBLATIONE.’
“现在就是将你的存在奉献给万王之王的时刻，”达达尼昂说道，“如果你坚持向他表示礼貌的话。”非无用的锔念奉献。’

‘Go to the devil with your Latin. Let us drink, my dear d’Artagnan, MORBLEU! Let us drink while the wine is fresh! Let us drink heartily, and while we do so, tell me a little of what is going on in the world yonder.’
‘让你的拉丁语见鬼去吧。让我们干杯吧，我亲爱的达达尼昂，莫布勒！趁酒还新鲜，我们就喝吧！让我们尽情地喝吧，边喝边告诉我一些那边世界正在发生的事情。

27 THE WIFE OF ATHOS
27 阿多斯的妻子

‘We have now to search for Athos,’ said d’Artagnan to the vivacious Aramis, when he had informed him of all that had passed since their departure from the capital, and an excellent dinner had made one of them forget his thesis and the other his fatigue.
“我们现在必须寻找阿托斯，”达达尼昂对活泼的阿拉米斯说，当他告诉他自从他们离开首都以来所发生的一切时，一顿丰盛的晚餐使他们中的一个人忘记了他的论文和其他他的疲劳。

‘Do you think, then, that any harm can have happened to him?’ asked Aramis. ‘Athos is so cool, so brave, and handles his sword so skillfully.’
“那么，你认为他会受到什么伤害吗？”阿拉米斯问。 “阿托斯是如此冷静、如此勇敢，并且熟练地运用他的剑。”

‘No doubt. Nobody has a higher opinion of the courage and skill of Athos than I have; but I like better to hear my sword clang against lances than against staves. I fear lest Athos should have been beaten down by serving men. Those fellows strike hard, and don’t leave off in a hurry. This is why I wish to set out again as soon as possible.’
'毫无疑问。没有人比我更欣赏阿托斯的勇气和技巧。但我更喜欢听到我的剑与长矛碰撞的声音，而不是与棍棒碰撞的声音。我担心阿多斯会被服役人员殴打。那些家伙出手狠狠，并不急着离开。这就是为什么我希望尽快再次出发。

‘I will try to accompany you,’ said Aramis, ‘though I scarcely feel in a condition to mount on horseback. Yesterday I undertook to employ that cord which you see hanging against the wall, but pain prevented my continuing the pious exercise.’
“我会尽力陪你，”阿拉米斯说，“尽管我几乎感觉不到骑在马背上的情况。昨天，我打算使用你看到的挂在墙上的那根绳子，但疼痛阻止了我继续虔诚的练习。

‘That’s the first time I ever heard of anybody trying to cure gunshot wounds with cat-o’-nine-tails; but you were ill, and illness renders the head weak, therefore you may be excused.’
“这是我第一次听说有人试图用九尾猫治疗枪伤；但你病了，而且疾病使你的头脑变得虚弱，所以你可以原谅。

‘When do you mean to set out?’
“你打算什么时候出发？”

‘Tomorrow at daybreak. Sleep as soundly as you can tonight, and tomorrow, if you can, we will take our departure together.’
‘明天天一亮。今晚尽量睡个好觉，明天，如果可以的话，我们将一起出发。”

‘Till tomorrow, then,’ said Aramis; ‘for iron-nerved as you are, you must need repose.’
“那么，明天再说吧，”阿拉米斯说。 “对于你这样铁石心肠的人来说，你一定需要休息。”

The next morning, when d’Artagnan entered Aramis’s chamber, he found him at the window.
第二天早上，当达达尼昂走进阿拉米斯的房间时，他发现他在窗边。

‘What are you looking at?’ asked d’Artagnan.
“你在看什么？”达达尼昂问道。

‘My faith! I am admiring three magnificent horses which the stable boys are leading about. It would be a pleasure worthy of a prince to travel upon such horses.’
‘我的信仰！我正在欣赏马厩童牵着的三匹骏马。骑着这样的马出行，对于王子来说是一种荣幸。”

‘Well, my dear Aramis, you may enjoy that pleasure, for one of those three horses is yours.’
“好吧，我亲爱的阿拉米斯，你可以享受这种快乐，因为那三匹马中的一匹是你的。”

‘Ah, bah! Which?’
‘啊，呸！哪个？'

‘Whichever of the three you like, I have no preference.’
“无论你喜欢这三个中的哪一个，我都没有偏好。”

‘And the rich caparison, is that mine, too?’
“那个富有的衣着也是我的吗？”

‘Without doubt.’
'毫无疑问。'

‘You laugh, d’Artagnan.’
“你笑了，达达尼昂。”

‘No, I have left off laughing, now that you speak French.’
“不，既然你会说法语，我就不笑了。”

‘What, those rich holsters, that velvet housing, that saddle studded with silver-are they all for me?’
“什么，那些华丽的皮套，那个天鹅绒外壳，那个镶满银子的马鞍——它们都是给我的吗？”

‘For you and nobody else, as the horse which paws the ground is mine, and the other horse, which is caracoling, belongs to Athos.’
“对你来说，对任何其他人来说，因为用爪子抓地的那匹马是我的，而另一匹会唱卡拉歌的马则属于阿多斯。”

‘PESTE! They are three superb animals!’
‘瘟疫！它们是三只极好的动物！

‘I am glad they please you.’
“我很高兴它们能让你满意。”

‘Why, it must have been the king who made you such a present.’
“哎呀，一定是国王给你送了这样一份礼物。”

‘Certainly it was not the cardinal; but don’t trouble yourself whence they come, think only that one of the three is your property.’
“当然不是红衣主教，而是他。”但不要为它们从何而来而烦恼，只考虑三者之一是你的财产。

‘I choose that which the red-headed boy is leading.’
“我选择红发男孩带领的那个。”

‘It is yours!’
'这是你的！'

‘Good heaven! That is enough to drive away all my pains; I could mount him with thirty balls in my body. On my soul, handsome stirrups! HOLA, Bazin, come here this minute.’
‘天堂好啊！这足以驱走我所有的痛苦；我体内有三十个球就可以骑上他。在我的灵魂上，美丽的马镫！你好，巴赞，马上过来。”

Bazin appeared on the threshold, dull and spiritless.
巴赞出现在门槛上，表情呆滞，毫无精神。

‘That last order is useless,’ interrupted d’Artagnan; ‘there are loaded pistols in your holsters.’
“最后的命令毫无用处，”达达尼昂打断道。 “你的枪套里有上膛的手枪。”

Bazin sighed.
巴赞叹了口气。

‘Come, Monsieur Bazin, make yourself easy,’ said d’Artagnan; ‘people of all conditions gain the kingdom of heaven.’
“来吧，巴赞先生，放松点，”达达尼昂说。 “任何条件的人都可以获得天国。”

‘Monsieur was already such a good theologian,’ said Bazin, almost weeping; ‘he might have become a bishop, and perhaps a cardinal.’
“先生已经是一位非常优秀的神学家了，”巴赞几乎哭了。 “他可能会成为一名主教，也许还会成为一名红衣主教。”

‘Well, but my poor Bazin, reflect a little. Of what use is it to be a churchman, pray? You do not avoid going to war by that means; you see, the cardinal is about to make the next campaign, helm on head and partisan in hand. And Monsieur de Nogaret de la Valette, what do you say of him? He is a cardinal likewise. Ask his lackey how often he has had to prepare lint of him.’
“好吧，但是我可怜的巴赞，反思一下吧。请问，成为一名牧师有什么用呢？你并不能通过这种方式避免战争；你看，红衣主教即将发起下一场竞选，他掌舵，手握党派。德·诺加雷·德拉·瓦莱特先生，您对他有何评价？他同样是一位红衣主教。问问他的跟班，他有多少次需要为他准备棉绒。

‘Alas!’ sighed Bazin. ‘I know it, monsieur; everything is turned topsy-turvy in the world nowadays.’
“唉！”巴赞叹了口气。 “我知道，先生；如今世界上的一切都变得乱七八糟。

While this dialogue was going on, the two young men and the poor lackey descended.
就在对话进行的时候，两个年轻人和那个可怜的仆人下来了。

‘Hold my stirrup, Bazin,’ cried Aramis; and Aramis sprang into the saddle with his usual grace and agility, but after a few vaults and curvets of the noble animal his rider felt his pains come on so insupportably that he turned pale and became unsteady in his seat. D’Artagnan, who, foreseeing such an event, had kept his eye on him, sprang toward him, caught him in his arms, and assisted him to his chamber.
“巴赞，握住我的马镫，”阿拉米斯喊道。阿拉米斯以他一贯的优雅和敏捷跳上了马鞍，但是在这头高贵的动物做了几次跳跃和弯曲之后，他的骑手感到他的疼痛如此难以忍受，以至于他脸色苍白，在座位上变得站不稳。达达尼昂预见到了这样的事情，一直注视着他，向他扑过来，把他抱在怀里，扶他回到自己的房间。

‘That’s all right, my dear Aramis, take care of yourself,’ said he; ‘I will go alone in search of Athos.’
“没关系，我亲爱的阿拉米斯，照顾好自己，”他说。 “我会独自去寻找阿托斯。”

‘You are a man of brass,’ replied Aramis.
“你是个黄铜人，”阿拉米斯回答道。

‘No, I have good luck, that is all. But how do you mean to pass your time till I come back? No more theses, no more glosses upon the fingers or upon benedictions, hey?’
‘不，我运气好，仅此而已。但你打算如何打发时间直到我回来呢？不再有论文，不再有手指上的注释或祝福，嘿？

Aramis smiled. ‘I will make verses,’ said he.
阿拉米斯笑了。 “我会写诗，”他说。

‘Yes, I dare say; verses perfumed with the odor of the billet from the attendant of Madame de Chevreuse. Teach Bazin prosody; that will console him. As to the horse, ride him a little every day, and that will accustom you to his maneuvers.’
“是的，我敢说；诗句散发着舍夫勒斯夫人侍从的钢坯气味。教巴赞韵律；这会安慰他。至于马，每天骑一会儿，这样你就会习惯他的动作。

‘Oh, make yourself easy on that head,’ replied Aramis. ‘You will find me ready to follow you.’
“哦，别太在意这个了，”阿拉米斯回答道。 “你会发现我已经准备好跟随你了。”

They took leave of each other, and in ten minutes, after having commended his friend to the cares of the hostess and Bazin, d’Artagnan was trotting along in the direction of Amiens.
他们互相告别，十分钟后，达达尼昂把他的朋友托付给女主人和巴赞的照顾后，就小跑着朝亚眠的方向走去。

How was he going to find Athos? Should he find him at all? The position in which he had left him was critical. He probably had succumbed. This idea, while darkening his brow, drew several sighs from him, and caused him to formulate to himself a few vows of vengeance. Of all his friends, Athos was the eldest, and the least resembling him in appearance, in his tastes and sympathies.
他要怎样才能找到阿托斯呢？他到底该去找他吗？他留给他的处境至关重要。他可能已经屈服了。这个念头，让他眉头暗沉的同时，也让他叹了口气，心中暗生了几条复仇的誓言。在他所有的朋友中，阿托斯是最年长的，但在外表、品味和同情心上却与他最不相似。

Yet he entertained a marked preference for this gentleman. The noble and distinguished air of Athos, those flashes of greatness which from time to time broke out from the shade in which he voluntarily kept himself, that unalterable equality of temper which made him the most pleasant companion in the world, that forced and cynical gaiety, that bravery which might have been termed blind if it had not been the result of the rarest coolness—such qualities attracted more than the esteem, more than the friendship of d’Artagnan; they attracted his admiration.
然而他对这位绅士却有着明显的偏爱。阿托斯高贵而杰出的气质，那些不时从他自愿保持的阴影中爆发出来的伟大的闪光，那种使他成为世界上最令人愉快的伴侣的不可改变的平等性情，那种被迫而愤世嫉俗的欢乐如果不是出于最罕见的冷静，这种勇敢可能会被称为盲目——这种品质不仅吸引了达达尼昂的尊重，也吸引了他的友谊；他们引起了他的钦佩。

Indeed, when placed beside M. de Treville, the elegant and noble courtier, Athos in his most cheerful days might advantageously sustain a comparison. He was of middle height; but his person was so admirably shaped and so well proportioned that more than once in his struggles with Porthos he had overcome the giant whose physical strength was proverbial among the Musketeers. His head, with piercing eyes, a straight nose, a chin cut like that of Brutus, had altogether an indefinable character of grandeur and grace. His hands, of which he took little care, were the despair of Aramis, who cultivated his with almond paste and perfumed oil. The sound of his voice was at once penetrating and melodious; and then, that which was inconceivable in Athos, who was always retiring, was that delicate knowledge of the world and of the usages of the most brilliant society—those manners of a high degree which appeared, as if unconsciously to himself, in his least actions.
事实上，当阿多斯在他最快乐的日子里与优雅而高贵的朝臣德特雷维尔先生一起时，可能会有利地进行比较。他中等身高；但他的体形非常优美，比例也非常匀称，以至于在他与波托斯的斗争中，他不止一次战胜了这个在火枪手中众所周知的体格强壮的巨人。他的脑袋，目光锐利，鼻子挺直，下巴像布鲁图斯一样，有一种难以形容的宏伟和优雅。他的双手，他很少关心，是阿拉米斯的绝望，阿拉米斯用杏仁酱和香油培育他的双手。他的声音既富有穿透力又悠扬。然后，对于总是退休的阿托斯来说，令人难以置信的是，他对世界和最辉煌的社会的惯例有着敏锐的了解——那些在他最小的时候似乎无意识地出现在他自己身上的高度的举止。行动。

If a repast were on foot, Athos presided over it better than any other, placing every guest exactly in the rank which his ancestors had earned for him or that he had made for himself. If a question in heraldry were started, Athos knew all the noble families of the kingdom, their genealogy, their alliances, their coats of arms, and the origin of them. Etiquette had no minutiae unknown to him. He knew what were the rights of the great land owners. He was profoundly versed in hunting and falconry, and had one day when conversing on this great art astonished even Louis XIII himself, who took a pride in being considered a past master therein.
如果步行就餐，阿多斯会比其他任何人主持得更好，将每一位客人完全按照他的祖先为他赢得的或他为自己制定的等级。如果开始询问纹章学问题，阿多斯知道王国所有的贵族家族，他们的家谱，他们的联盟，他们的纹章，以及他们的起源。礼仪没有他不知道的细枝末节。他知道大土地所有者的权利是什么。他精通狩猎和猎鹰术，有一天，当他谈论这一伟大的艺术时，甚至连路易十三本人也感到惊讶，他为自己被认为是这方面的过去的大师而感到自豪。

Like all the great nobles of that period, Athos rode and fenced to perfection. But still further, his education had been so little neglected, even with respect to scholastic studies, so rare at this time among gentlemen, that he smiled at the scraps of Latin which Aramis sported and which Porthos pretended to understand. Two or three times, even, to the great astonishment of his friends, he had, when Aramis allowed some rudimental error to escape him, replaced a verb in its right tense and a noun in its case. Besides, his probity was irreproachable, in an age in which soldiers compromised so easily with their religion and their consciences, lovers with the rigorous delicacy of our era, and the poor with God’s Seventh Commandment. This Athos, then, was a very extraordinary man.
和那个时期所有伟大的贵族一样，阿多斯的骑马和击剑都达到了完美的程度。但更进一步的是，他的教育几乎没有被忽视，甚至在学术研究方面也没有被忽视，这在当时的绅士中是如此罕见，以至于他对阿拉米斯炫耀的拉丁语碎片微笑，波尔托斯假装理解这些拉丁语。甚至有两三次，当阿拉米斯犯了一些基本错误时，他用右时态替换了动词，用格子替换了名词，这让他的朋友们大吃一惊。此外，他的正直是无可指责的，在这个时代，士兵很容易向他们的宗教和良心妥协，情人很容易向我们这个时代的严格精致妥协，穷人很容易向上帝的第七条诫命妥协。那么，这个阿托斯是一个非常非凡的人。

And yet this nature so distinguished, this creature so beautiful, this essence so fine, was seen to turn insensibly toward material life, as old men turn toward physical and moral imbecility. Athos, in his hours of gloom—and these hours were frequent—was extinguished as to the whole of the luminous portion of him, and his brilliant side disappeared as into profound darkness.
然而，这种如此杰出的本性，如此美丽的生物，如此优秀的本质，却被视为不知不觉地转向物质生活，就像老年人转向身体和道德上的低能一样。阿多斯在他的忧郁时刻——而且这种时刻经常发生——他的整个发光部分都熄灭了，他明亮的一面消失在深深的黑暗中。

Then the demigod vanished; he remained scarcely a man. His head hanging down, his eye dull, his speech slow and painful, Athos would look for hours together at his bottle, his glass, or at Grimaud, who, accustomed to obey him by signs, read in the faint glance of his master his least desire, and satisfied it immediately. If the four friends were assembled at one of these moments, a word, thrown forth occasionally with a violent effort, was the share Athos furnished to the conversation. In exchange for his silence Athos drank enough for four, and without appearing to be otherwise affected by wine than by a more marked constriction of the brow and by a deeper sadness.
然后半神就消失了。他几乎不再是一个男人了。阿多斯低垂着头，眼神呆滞，说话缓慢而痛苦，他会一连几个小时看着他的瓶子、杯子，或者看着格里莫，而格里莫习惯于通过手势服从他，从他主人的微弱的眼神中读出了他的意思。最小的欲望，并立即满足它。如果这四个朋友在某个时刻聚集在一起，阿多斯偶尔会用力地说出一句话，作为谈话的一部分。作为沉默的交换，阿托斯喝了足够四个人喝的酒，除了眉头更明显地收缩和更深的悲伤之外，他似乎没有受到酒的其他影响。

D’Artagnan, whose inquiring disposition we are acquainted with, had not—whatever interest he had in satisfying his curiosity on this subject—been able to assign any cause for these fits of for the periods of their recurrence. Athos never received any letters; Athos never had concerns which all his friends did not know.
我们熟悉达达尼昂的好奇心，但他无法——无论他对满足自己对这个问题的好奇心有多大兴趣——能够为这些发作的反复发作找出任何原因。阿托斯从未收到过任何信件；阿多斯从来没有担心过他所有的朋友都不知道的事情。

It could not be said that it was wine which produced this sadness; for in truth he only drank to combat this sadness, which wine however, as we have said, rendered still darker. This excess of bilious humor could not be attributed to play; for unlike Porthos, who accompanied the variations of chance with songs or oaths, Athos when he won remained as unmoved as when he lost. He had been known, in the circle of the Musketeers, to win in one night three thousand pistoles; to lose them even to the gold-embroidered belt for gala days, win all this again with the addition of a hundred louis, without his beautiful eyebrow being heightened or lowered half a line, without his hands losing their pearly hue, without his conversation, which was cheerful that evening, ceasing to be calm and agreeable.
不能说是酒造成了这种悲伤，而是酒造成了这种悲伤。事实上，他喝酒只是为了对抗这种悲伤，然而，正如我们所说，酒使这种悲伤变得更加黑暗。这种过度的暴躁幽默不能归因于玩耍；而是来自游戏。因为与波尔托斯不同的是，波尔托斯用歌曲或誓言伴随着机会的变化，阿托斯在获胜时和失败时一样不为所动。在火枪手圈子里，他曾在一夜之间赢得了三千皮斯托尔。连庆功日的金绣腰带都丢了，再加上一百路易，又赢了这一切，美丽的眉毛没有抬高或降低半行，双手没有失去珍珠般的色泽，没有谈话，那天晚上气氛很愉快，不再平静和愉快。

Neither was it, as with our neighbors, the English, an atmospheric influence which darkened his countenance; for the sadness generally became more intense toward the fine season of the year. June and July were the terrible months with Athos.
也不像我们的邻居英国人那样，是大气的影响使他的脸色变黑了。因为到了一年中的美好季节，悲伤通常会变得更加强烈。六月和七月对于阿多斯来说是可怕的几个月。

For the present he had no anxiety. He shrugged his shoulders when people spoke of the future. His secret, then, was in the past, as had often been vaguely said to d’Artagnan.
目前他没有任何焦虑。当人们谈到未来时，他耸了耸肩。那么，他的秘密就在过去，就像人们经常含糊地对达达尼昂说的那样。

This mysterious shade, spread over his whole person, rendered still more interesting the man whose eyes or mouth, even in the most complete intoxication, had never revealed anything, however skillfully questions had been put to him.
这种神秘的阴影遍布他的整个人，使这个人变得更加有趣，即使在最彻底的陶醉状态下，无论向他提出多么巧妙的问题，他的眼睛或嘴巴都从未透露过任何东西。

‘Well,’ thought d’Artagnan, ‘poor Athos is perhaps at this moment dead, and dead by my fault—for it was I who dragged him into this affair, of which he did not know the origin, of which he is ignorant of the result, and from which he can derive no advantage.’
“好吧，”达达尼昂想，“可怜的阿多斯此刻可能已经死了，而且是因为我的过错而死的——因为是我把他拖进了这件事，他不知道这件事的起因，他对此一无所知。的结果，他不能从中获得任何好处。

‘Without reckoning, monsieur,’ added Planchet to his master’s audibly expressed reflections, ‘that we perhaps owe our lives to him. Do you remember how he cried, ‘On, d’Artagnan, on, I am taken’? And when he had discharged his two pistols, what a terrible noise he made with his sword! One might have said that twenty men, or rather twenty mad devils, were fighting.’
“毫无疑问，先生，”普朗切特在他的主人大声表达的反思中补充道，“我们也许欠他一条命。”你还记得他是如何喊道“达达尼昂，我被抓住了”吗？当他的两把手枪开火后，他的剑发出了多么可怕的声音！有人可能会说，有二十个人，或者更确切地说，二十个疯狂的魔鬼，正在战斗。

These words redoubled the eagerness of d’Artagnan, who urged his horse, though he stood in need of no incitement, and they proceeded at a rapid pace. About eleven o’clock in the morning they perceived Ameins, and at half past eleven they were at the door of the cursed inn.
这句话使达达尼昂更加急切，尽管他不需要任何煽动，但他催促着他的马，他们快速前进。上午十一点左右，他们看到了阿明，十一点半，他们来到了那家被诅咒的旅馆门口。

D’Artagnan had often meditated against the perfidious host one of those hearty vengeances which offer consolation while they are hoped for. He entered the hostelry with his hat pulled over his eyes, his left hand on the pommel of the sword, and cracking his whip with his right hand.
达达尼昂经常对背信弃义的主人进行一场热心的复仇，这在人们所希望的同时提供了安慰。他走进旅馆，帽子遮住了眼睛，左手放在剑柄上，右手挥动鞭子。

‘Do you remember me?’ said he to the host, who advanced to greet him.
“你还记得我吗？”他对主人说道，主人迎上前来。

‘I have not that honor, monseigneur,’ replied the latter, his eyes dazzled by the brilliant style in which d’Artagnan traveled.
“我没有这样的荣幸，大人，”后者回答道，他的眼睛被达达尼昂辉煌的旅行风格弄得眼花缭乱。

‘What, you don’t know me?’
“什么，你不认识我了？”

‘No, monseigneur.’
“不，大人。”

‘Well, two words will refresh your memory. What have you done with that gentleman against whom you had the audacity, about twelve days ago, to make an accusation of passing false money?’
“好吧，两个词就能刷新你的记忆。大约十二天前，你厚颜无耻地指控那位先生传递假钱，你对他做了什么？

The host became as pale as death; for d’Artagnan had assumed a threatening attitude, and Planchet modeled himself after his master.
主人脸色苍白如死。因为达达尼昂采取了一种威胁的态度，而普朗谢则效仿他的主人。

‘Ah, monseigneur, do not mention it!’ cried the host, in the most pitiable voice imaginable. ‘Ah, monseigneur, how dearly have I paid for that fault, unhappy wretch as I am!’
“啊，大人，别提了！”主人用可以想象到的最可怜的声音喊道。 “啊，大人，我为这个错误付出了多么惨重的代价，我这个不幸的人！”

‘That gentleman, I say, what has become of him?’
“我问这位先生，他怎么样了？”

‘Deign to listen to me, monseigneur, and be merciful! Sit down, in mercy!’
“请听我的话，大人，发发慈悲吧！”坐下吧，怜悯吧！

D’Artagnan, mute with anger and anxiety, took a seat in the threatening attitude of a judge. Planchet glared fiercely over the back of his armchair.
达达尼昂因愤怒和焦虑而哑口无言，以法官威胁的态度坐下来。普兰切特在扶手椅背上狠狠地瞪着他。

‘Here is the story, monseigneur,’ resumed the trembling host; ‘for I now recollect you. It was you who rode off at the moment I had that unfortunate difference with the gentleman you speak of.’
“大人，故事是这样的，”颤抖着的主人继续说道。 ‘因为我现在记起你了。当我与你所说的那位先生发生不幸的分歧时，是你骑马离开的。

‘Yes, it was I; so you may plainly perceive that you have no mercy to expect if you do not tell me the whole truth.’
‘是的，是我；所以你可以清楚地认识到，如果你不告诉我全部真相，你就不会得到怜悯。

‘Condescend to listen to me, and you shall know all.’
“屈尊听我说，你就会知道一切。”

‘I listen.’
'我听。'

‘I had been warned by the authorities that a celebrated coiner of bad money would arrive at my inn, with several of his companions, all disguised as Guards or Musketeers. Monseigneur, I was furnished with a description of your horses, your lackeys, your countenances—nothing was omitted.’
“当局警告我，一位著名的劣币制造者将带着他的几个同伴来到我的旅馆，他们都伪装成卫兵或火枪手。大人，我得到了关于您的马匹、您的仆人、您的面容的描述——没有遗漏任何东西。

‘Go on, go on!’ said d’Artagnan, who quickly understood whence such an exact description had come.
“继续，继续！”达达尼昂说道，他很快就明白了这样一个准确的描述是从哪里来的。

‘I took then, in conformity with the orders of the authorities, who sent me a reinforcement of six men, such measures as I thought necessary to get possession of the persons of the pretended coiners.’
“随后，我按照当局的命令，派了六名增援人员给我，采取了我认为必要的措施，以控制假冒铸币者的身份。”

‘Again!’ said d’Artagnan, whose ears chafed terribly under the repetition of this word COINERs.
“又来了！”达达尼昂说道，他的耳朵因为重复这个词“COINER”而刺痛得厉害。

‘Pardon me, monseigneur, for saying such things, but they form my excuse. The authorities had terrified me, and you know that an innkeeper must keep on good terms with the authorities.’
“请原谅我说了这样的话，大人，但这只是我的借口。当局吓坏了我，你知道旅店老板必须与当局保持良好关系。

‘But once again, that gentleman—where is he? What has become of him? Is he dead? Is he living?’
“但是，那位先生——他在哪里？”他现在怎么样了？他死了吗？他还活着吗？

‘Patience, monseigneur, we are coming to it. There happened then that which you know, and of which your precipitate departure,’ added the host, with an acuteness that did not escape d’Artagnan, ‘appeared to authorize the issue. That gentleman, your friend, defended himself desperately. His lackey, who, by an unforeseen piece of ill luck, had quarreled with the officers, disguised as stable lads—‘
“请耐心等待，大人，我们快要到了。然后发生了你所知道的事情，而你的突然离开，”主人补充道，达达尼昂没有逃脱的敏锐，“似乎授权了这个问题。那位先生，你的朋友，拼命地为自己辩护。他的跟班，由于一次意外的不幸，与伪装成马夫的小伙子的军官们发生了争吵——”

‘Miserable scoundrel!’ cried d’Artagnan, ‘you were all in the plot, then! And I really don’t know what prevents me from exterminating you all.’
“可悲的恶棍！”达达尼昂喊道，“那么你们都参与了阴谋！”我真的不知道是什么阻止我消灭你们所有人。”

‘Alas, monseigneur, we were not in the plot, as you will soon see. Monsieur your friend (pardon for not calling him by the honorable name which no doubt he bears, but we do not know that name), Monsieur your friend, having disabled two men with his pistols, retreated fighting with his sword, with which he disabled one of my men, and stunned me with a blow of the flat side of it.’
“唉，大人，我们没有参与阴谋，你很快就会看到。您的朋友先生（请原谅我没有用他无疑拥有的光荣名字来称呼他，但我们不知道这个名字），您的朋友先生，用手枪打伤了两个人，用剑撤退了，他用剑打伤了我的一个手下，用它平坦的一面一击，把我打晕了。”

‘You villain, will you finish?’ cried d’Artagnan, ‘Athos—what has become of Athos?’
“你这个恶棍，你能说完吗？”达达尼昂喊道，“阿多斯——阿多斯怎么样了？”

‘While fighting and retreating, as I have told Monseigneur, he found the door of the cellar stairs behind him, and as the door was open, he took out the key, and barricaded himself inside. As we were sure of finding him there, we left him alone.’
“正如我告诉大人的那样，在战斗和撤退时，他发现了身后地窖楼梯的门，门开着，他拿出钥匙，把自己锁在里面。因为我们确信能在那里找到他，所以我们就让他一个人呆着。

‘Yes,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘you did not really wish to kill; you only wished to imprison him.’
“是的，”达达尼昂说，“你并不是真的想杀人；你只是想杀人而已。”你只是想囚禁他。

‘Good God! To imprison him, monseigneur? Why, he imprisoned himself, I swear to you he did. In the first place he had made rough work of it; one man was killed on the spot, and two others were severely wounded. The dead man and the two wounded were carried off by their comrades, and I have heard nothing of either of them since. As for myself, as soon as I recovered my senses I went to Monsieur the Governor, to whom I related all that had passed, and asked, what I should do with my prisoner. Monsieur the Governor was all astonishment. He told me he knew nothing about the matter, that the orders I had received did not come from him, and that if I had the audacity to mention his name as being concerned in this disturbance he would have me hanged. It appears that I had made a mistake, monsieur, that I had arrested the wrong person, and that he whom I ought to have arrested had escaped.’
‘天啊！监禁他，大人？为什么，他囚禁了自己，我向你发誓他做到了。首先，他把这件事做得很艰难。一名男子当场死亡，另外两人受重伤。死者和两名伤者被他们的战友抬走了，从那以后我就再也没有他们的消息了。至于我自己，我一清醒过来就去找总督先生，向他讲述了所发生的一切，并询问我应该如何处置我的囚犯。总督先生大吃一惊。他告诉我，他对此事一无所知，我收到的命令不是来自他，如果我胆敢提及他的名字，因为他与这场骚乱有关，他就会把我绞死。看来我犯了一个错误，先生，我逮捕了错误的人，而我应该逮捕的人却逃走了。”

‘But Athos!’ cried d’Artagnan, whose impatience was increased by the disregard of the authorities, ‘Athos, where is he?’
“但是阿多斯！”达达尼昂喊道，当局的无视让他更加不耐烦，“阿多斯，他在哪里？”

‘As I was anxious to repair the wrongs I had done the prisoner,’ resumed the innkeeper, ‘I took my way straight to the cellar in order to set him at liberty. Ah, monsieur, he was no longer a man, he was a devil! To my offer of liberty, he replied that it was nothing but a snare, and that before he came out he intended to impose his own conditions. I told him very humbly—for I could not conceal from myself the scrape I had got into by laying hands on one of his Majesty’s Musketeers—I told him I was quite ready to submit to his conditions.
“因为我急于弥补我对囚犯的错误，”旅店老板继续说道，“我径直走向地窖，想让他重获自由。啊，先生，他不再是人了，他是魔鬼了！对于我提出的自由，他回答说这只不过是一个圈套，在他出来之前他打算强加自己的条件。我非常谦虚地告诉他——因为我无法向自己隐瞒我因触碰国王陛下的一名火枪手而陷入的困境——我告诉他我已经准备好服从他的条件了。

‘‘In the first place,’ said he, ‘I wish my lackey placed with me, fully armed.’ We hastened to obey this order; for you will please to understand, monsieur, we were disposed to do everything your friend could desire. Monsieur Grimaud (he told us his name, although he does not talk much)—Monsieur Grimaud, then, went down to the cellar, wounded as he was; then his master, having admitted him, barricaded the door afresh, and ordered us to remain quietly in our own bar.’
“首先，”他说，“我希望我的仆人全副武装地和我在一起。”我们赶紧服从这个命令。先生，请您理解，我们愿意做您朋友所希望的一切。格里莫先生（他告诉了我们他的名字，虽然他话不多）——然后，格里莫先生下楼去了地窖，尽管他受了伤；但他还是把自己的名字告诉了我们。然后他的主人接纳了他，又重新堵住了门，并命令我们安静地留在我们自己的酒吧里。

‘But where is Athos now?’ cried d’Artagnan. ‘Where is Athos?’
“可是阿托斯现在在哪儿呢？”达达尼昂喊道。 “阿托斯在哪里？”

‘In the cellar, monsieur.’
“在地窖里，先生。”

‘What, you scoundrel! Have you kept him in the cellar all this time?’
‘什么，你这个无赖！你一直把他关在地窖里吗？

‘Merciful heaven! No, monsieur! We keep him in the cellar! You do not know what he is about in the cellar. Ah! If you could but persuade him to come out, monsieur, I should owe you the gratitude of my whole life; I should adore you as my patron saint!’
‘仁慈的天啊！不，先生！我们把他关在地窖里！你不知道他在地窖里做什么。啊!先生，如果您能说服他出来，我将一生感激您。我应该崇拜你作为我的守护神！

‘Then he is there? I shall find him there?’
‘那他在那儿？我会在那里找到他吗？

‘Without doubt you will, monsieur; he persists in remaining there. We every day pass through the air hole some bread at the end of a fork, and some meat when he asks for it; but alas! It is not of bread and meat of which he makes the greatest consumption. I once endeavored to go down with two of my servants; but he flew into terrible rage. I heard the noise he made in loading his pistols, and his servant in loading his musketoon. Then, when we asked them what were their intentions, the master replied that he had forty charges to fire, and that he and his lackey would fire to the last one before he would allow a single soul of us to set foot in the cellar. Upon this I went and complained to the governor, who replied that I only had what I deserved, and that it would teach me to insult honorable gentlemen who took up their abode in my house.’
“毫无疑问，您会的，先生；他坚持留在那里。我们每天都会从叉子末端的气孔里放一些面包，当他要的时候，我们会放一些肉。可惜！他消耗最多的并不是面包和肉。有一次，我试图和我的两个仆人一起下山。但他勃然大怒。我听到他给手枪装子弹的声音，还有他的仆人给步枪装子弹的声音。然后，当我们问他们的意图是什么时，主人回答说他有四十发子弹要发射，他和他的仆人会发射到最后一颗，然后他才会允许我们中的任何一个灵魂踏入地窖。于是我去向州长投诉，州长回答说我只是得到了我应得的，这会教我侮辱住在我家里的可敬的绅士。

‘So that since that time—‘ replied d’Artagnan, totally unable to refrain from laughing at the pitiable face of the host.
“所以从那时起——”达达尼昂回答道，看到主人那张可怜的脸，他忍不住笑了起来。

‘So from that time, monsieur,’ continued the latter, ‘we have led the most miserable life imaginable; for you must know, monsieur, that all our provisions are in the cellar. There is our wine in bottles, and our wine in casks; the beer, the oil, and the spices, the bacon, and sausages. And as we are prevented from going down there, we are forced to refuse food and drink to the travelers who come to the house; so that our hostelry is daily going to ruin. If your friend remains another week in my cellar I shall be a ruined man.’
“所以从那时起，先生，”后者继续说道，“我们过着可以想象到的最悲惨的生活；因为您必须知道，先生，我们所有的供给品都在地窖里。有我们的瓶装酒，还有我们的木桶酒；啤酒、油、香料、培根和香肠。由于我们被禁止前往那里，我们被迫拒绝向来到这所房子的旅行者提供食物和饮料；所以我们的旅馆每天都在毁坏。如果你的朋友在我的地窖里再呆一个星期，我就会破产了。”

‘And not more than justice, either, you ass! Could you not perceive by our appearance that we were people of quality, and not coiners—say?’
“也不过是正义，你这个混蛋！”难道你看不出我们的外表，我们是有素质的人，而不是造币者吗？

‘Yes, monsieur, you are right,’ said the host. ‘But, hark, hark! There he is!’
“是的，先生，您说得对。”主人说道。 “但是，听着，听着！他在那！'

‘Somebody has disturbed him, without doubt,’ said d’Artagnan.
“毫无疑问，有人打扰了他，”达达​​尼昂说。

‘But he must be disturbed,’ cried the host; ‘Here are two English gentlemen just arrived.’
“但是他一定受到了打扰，”主人喊道。 “两位英国绅士刚刚抵达。”

‘Well?’
'出色地？'

‘Well, the English like good wine, as you may know, monsieur; these have asked for the best. My wife has perhaps requested permission of Monsieur Athos to go into the cellar to satisfy these gentlemen; and he, as usual, has refused. Ah, good heaven! There is the hullabaloo louder than ever!’
“嗯，正如您所知，先生，英国人喜欢好酒；这些都要求最好的。我的妻子也许已请求阿托斯先生允许进入地窖以满足这些先生们的需要；但他像往常一样拒绝了。啊，好天堂！喧闹声比以往任何时候都更大！

D’Artagnan, in fact, heard a great noise on the side next the cellar. He rose, and preceded by the host wringing his hands, and followed by Planchet with his musketoon ready for use, he approached the scene of action.
事实上，达达尼昂听到地窖旁边有很大的噪音。他站起身来，在绞着手的主持人走在前面，在拿着火枪准备使用的普兰切特后面，他来到了行动现场。

The two gentlemen were exasperated; they had had a long ride, and were dying with hunger and thirst.
两位先生很恼火。他们已经长途跋涉，快要饥渴交加了。

‘But this is tyranny!’ cried one of them, in very good French, though with a foreign accent, ‘that this madman will not allow these good people access to their own wine! Nonsense, let us break open the door, and if he is too far gone in his madness, well, we will kill him!’
“但这就是暴政！”其中一个人用非常流利的法语喊道，虽然带着外国口音，“这个疯子不让这些好人喝到他们自己的酒！胡说，让我们破门而入，如果他疯狂得太过​​分，那么我们就杀了他！

‘Softly, gentlemen!’ said d’Artagnan, drawing his pistols from his belt, ‘you will kill nobody, if you please!’
“轻点，先生们！”达达尼昂一边说，一边从腰带上拔出手枪，“如果你们愿意的话，你们不会杀死任何人的！”

‘Good, good!’ cried the calm voice of Athos, from the other side of the door, ‘let them just come in, these devourers of little children, and we shall see!’
“好，好！”阿多斯平静的声音从门的另一边喊道，“让他们进来吧，这些吞食小孩子的人，我们拭目以待！”

Brave as they appeared to be, the two English gentlemen looked at each other hesitatingly. One might have thought there was in that cellar one of those famished ogres—the gigantic heroes of popular legends, into whose cavern nobody could force their way with impunity.
尽管这两位英国绅士看上去很勇敢，但他们却犹豫地互相看了一眼。人们可能会认为那个地窖里住着一位饥饿的食人魔——流行传说中的巨大英雄，任何人都不能强行闯入他的洞穴而不受惩罚。

There was a moment of silence; but at length the two Englishmen felt ashamed to draw back, and the angrier one descended the five or six steps which led to the cellar, and gave a kick against the door enough to split a wall.
一阵沉默。但最后，这两个英国人羞于退缩，更愤怒的那个人走下通向地窖的五六级台阶，对着门一脚，足足踢开了一堵墙。

‘Planchet,’ said d’Artagnan, cocking his pistols, ‘I will take charge of the one at the top; you look to the one below. Ah, gentlemen, you want battle; and you shall have it.’
“普兰谢特，”达达尼昂一边说，一边扳动手枪，“我来负责上面的那个；你看看下面这个。啊，先生们，你们想要战斗；你就会得到它。

‘Good God!’ cried the hollow voice of Athos, ‘I can hear d’Artagnan, I think.’
“天哪！”阿托斯空洞的声音喊道，“我想我能听到达达尼昂的声音。”

‘Yes,’ cried d’Artagnan, raising his voice in turn, ‘I am here, my friend.’
“是的，”达达尼昂提高声音喊道，“我在这儿，我的朋友。”

‘Ah, good, then,’ replied Athos, ‘we will teach them, these door breakers!’
“啊，那么好，”阿多斯回答道，“我们会教训他们，这些破门者！”

The gentlemen had drawn their swords, but they found themselves taken between two fires. They still hesitated an instant; but, as before, pride prevailed, and a second kick split the door from bottom to top.
绅士们拔出了剑，但他们发现自己被夹在两堆火中间。他们还是犹豫了一下；但是，和以前一样，骄傲占了上风，第二次踢门把门从下到上劈开了。

‘Stand on one side, d’Artagnan, stand on one side,’ cried Athos. ‘I am going to fire!’
“站在一边，达达尼昂，站在一边，”阿托斯喊道。 “我要开火了！”

‘Gentlemen,’ exclaimed d’Artagnan, whom reflection never abandoned, ‘gentlemen, think of what you are about. Patience, Athos! You are running your heads into a very silly affair; you will be riddled. My lackey and I will have three shots at you, and you will get as many from the cellar. You will then have our swords, with which, I can assure you, my friend and I can play tolerably well. Let me conduct your business and my own. You shall soon have something to drink; I give you my word.’
“先生们，”达达尼昂大声说道，他的反思从未放弃过，“先生们，想想你们在做什么。耐心点，阿托斯！你正在陷入一件非常愚蠢的事情；你将会千疮百孔。我和我的跟班会向你开三枪，你从地窖里得到同样多的枪。然后你就会得到我们的剑，我可以向你保证，我和我的朋友可以玩得很好。让我来处理你的事和我自己的事。你很快就会有东西喝；我给你我的话。'

‘If there is any left,’ grumbled the jeering voice of Athos.
“如果还有的话，”阿托斯用嘲笑的声音抱怨道。

The host felt a cold sweat creep down his back.
主持人感觉后背直冒冷汗。

‘How! ‘If there is any left!’’ murmured he.
'如何！ “如果还有的话！”他低声说道。

‘What the devil! There must be plenty left,’ replied d’Artagnan. ‘Be satisfied of that; these two cannot have drunk all the cellar. Gentlemen, return your swords to their scabbards.’
‘什么鬼啊！一定还剩下很多。”达达尼昂回答道。 ‘对此感到满意；这两个人不可能喝光整个地窖。先生们，请把你们的剑收回剑鞘吧。”

‘Well, provided you replace your pistols in your belt.’
“好吧，前提是你把手枪重新挂在腰带上。”

‘Willingly.’
“愿意。”

And d’Artagnan set the example. Then, turning toward Planchet, he made him a sign to uncock his musketoon.
达达尼昂树立了榜样。然后，他转向普兰切特，示意他拔出步枪。

The Englishmen, convinced of these peaceful proceedings, sheathed their swords grumblingly. The history of Athos’s imprisonment was then related to them; and as they were really gentlemen, they pronounced the host in the wrong.
英国人对这些和平进程深信不疑，抱怨着将剑收入鞘中。阿托斯被监禁的历史就与他们有关。由于他们确实是绅士，所以他们认为主人是错误的。

‘Now, gentlemen,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘go up to your room again; and in ten minutes, I will answer for it, you shall have all you desire.’
“现在，先生们，”达达尼昂说，“回到你们的房间去吧！十分钟后，我会回答，你会得到你想要的一切。

The Englishmen bowed and went upstairs.
英国人鞠了一躬，上楼了。

‘Now I am alone, my dear Athos,’ said d’Artagnan; ‘open the door, I beg of you.’
“现在我孤身一人了，亲爱的阿多斯，”达达尼昂说。 “打开门，我求你了。”

‘Instantly,’ said Athos.
“立刻，”阿托斯说。

Then was heard a great noise of fagots being removed and of the groaning of posts; these were the counterscarps and bastions of Athos, which the besieged himself demolished.
然后就听到了柴草被移走的巨大声响和柱子的呻吟声。这些是阿多斯的反崖壁和堡垒，被围困者自己拆毁了。

An instant after, the broken door was removed, and the pale face of Athos appeared, who with a rapid glance took a survey of the surroundings.
片刻之后，破损的门被移开，阿托斯苍白的脸出现了，他快速扫视了一下周围。

D’Artagnan threw himself on his neck and embraced him tenderly. He then tried to draw him from his moist abode, but to his surprise he perceived that Athos staggered.
达达尼昂伏在他的脖子上，温柔地拥抱他。然后他试图把他从潮湿的住所拉出来，但令他惊讶的是，他发现阿多斯摇摇欲坠。

‘You are wounded,’ said he.
“你受伤了，”他说。

‘I! Not at all. I am dead drunk, that’s all, and never did a man more strongly set about getting so. By the Lord, my good host! I must at least have drunk for my part a hundred and fifty bottles.’
'我！一点也不。我已经喝醉了，仅此而已，从来没有人比我更强烈地想要喝醉了。主啊，我的好主人！我至少已经喝了一百五十瓶了。

‘Mercy!’ cried the host, ‘if the lackey has drunk only half as much as the master, I am a ruined man.’
“天哪！”主人喊道，“如果奴才只喝了主人一半的酒，我就完蛋了。”

‘Grimaud is a well-bred lackey. He would never think of faring in the same manner as his master; he only drank from the cask. Hark! I don’t think he put the faucet in again. Do you hear it? It is running now.’
‘格里莫是一个有教养的走狗。他永远不会想到像他的主人一样生活。他只喝木桶里的水。听着！我认为他没有再把水龙头关上。你听到了吗？现在正在运行。

D’Artagnan burst into a laugh which changed the shiver of the host into a burning fever.
达达尼昂突然大笑起来，把主人的颤抖变成了烧灼般的发烧。

In the meantime, Grimaud appeared in his turn behind his master, with the musketoon on his shoulder, and his head shaking. Like one of those drunken satyrs in the pictures of Rubens. He was moistened before and behind with a greasy liquid which the host recognized as his best olive oil.
与此同时，格里莫也出现在他主人的身后，肩上扛着步枪，他的头在摇晃。就像鲁本斯画中的醉酒色狼之一。他的前后都沾满了油腻的液体，主人认为这是他最好的橄榄油。

The four crossed the public room and proceeded to take possession of the best apartment in the house, which d’Artagnan occupied with authority.
四人穿过公共房间，占领了房子里最好的公寓，达达尼昂占据了其中的权威。

In the meantime the host and his wife hurried down with lamps into the cellar, which had so long been interdicted to them and where a frightful spectacle awaited them.
与此同时，主人和他的妻子提着灯匆匆走进地窖，地窖早已禁止他们进入，可怕的景象正在等待着他们。

Beyond the fortifications through which Athos had made a breach in order to get out, and which were composed of fagots, planks, and empty casks, heaped up according to all the rules of the strategic art, they found, swimming in puddles of oil and wine, the bones and fragments of all the hams they had eaten; while a heap of broken bottles filled the whole left-hand corner of the cellar, and a tun, the cock of which was left running, was yielding, by this means, the last drop of its blood. ‘The image of devastation and death,’ as the ancient poet says, ‘reigned as over a field of battle.’
除了阿托斯为了逃脱而突破的防御工事之外，他们发现，这些防御工事是由柴草、木板和空桶组成的，按照战略艺术的所有规则堆积起来，在石油和石油的水坑中游泳。酒，他们吃过的所有火腿的骨头和碎片；地窖的左手边角落里堆满了一堆破瓶子，还有一只大桶，它的旋塞还开着，正在用这种方法流出最后一滴血。正如这位古代诗人所说，“毁灭和死亡的景象就像战场上空一样。”

Of fifty large sausages, suspended from the joists, scarcely ten remained.
托梁上悬挂着五十根大香肠，只剩下十根了。

Then the lamentations of the host and hostess pierced the vault of the cellar. D’Artagnan himself was moved by them. Athos did not even turn his head.
随后，男女主人的悲痛声响彻了地窖的拱顶。达达尼昂本人也被他们感动了。阿托斯甚至没有回头。

To grief succeeded rage. The host armed himself with a spit, and rushed into the chamber occupied by the two friends.
悲伤继而愤怒。主人拿起一口唾沫，冲进了两个朋友所在的房间。

‘Some wine!’ said Athos, on perceiving the host.
“来点酒吧！”阿托斯一看到主人就说道。

‘Some wine!’ cried the stupefied host, ‘some wine? Why you have drunk more than a hundred pistoles’ worth! I am a ruined man, lost, destroyed!’
“来点酒！”主人惊呆了，喊道，“来点酒？为什么你喝了一百多皮斯托尔的酒！我是一个被毁掉的人，迷失了，被毁了！

‘Bah,’ said Athos, ‘we were always dry.’
“呸，”阿托斯说，“我们一直都是干的。”

‘If you had been contented with drinking, well and good; but you have broken all the bottles.’
“如果你对喝酒感到满意，那很好；但你已经打碎了所有的瓶子。”

‘You pushed me upon a heap which rolled down. That was your fault.’
‘你把我推到了一堆滚下来的地方。那是你的错。

‘All my oil is lost!’
“我所有的油都用完了！”

‘Oil is a sovereign balm for wounds; and my poor Grimaud here was obliged to dress those you had inflicted on him.’
“油是治愈伤口的至高良药；我可怜的格里莫不得不为你给他造成的伤害穿上衣服。

‘All my sausages are gnawed!’
“我所有的香肠都被啃坏了！”

‘There is an enormous quantity of rats in that cellar.’
“那个地窖里有大量的老鼠。”

‘You shall pay me for all this,’ cried the exasperated host.
“你应该为这一切付钱给我，”愤怒的主人喊道。

‘Triple ass!’ said Athos, rising; but he sank down again immediately. He had tried his strength to the utmost. d’Artagnan came to his relief with his whip in his hand.
“三重屁股！”阿托斯站起身来说道。但他立刻又沉下去了。他已经用尽全力了。达达尼昂手里拿着鞭子，这才松了口气。

The host drew back and burst into tears.
主人退后一步，泪流满面。

‘This will teach you,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘to treat the guests God sends you in a more courteous fashion.’
“这会教你，”达达尼昂说，“以更有礼貌的方式对待上帝派给你的客人。”

‘God? Say the devil!’
'上帝？说魔鬼吧！

‘My dear friend,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘if you annoy us in this manner we will all four go and shut ourselves up in your cellar, and we will see if the mischief is as great as you say.’
“我亲爱的朋友，”达达尼昂说，“如果你这样惹恼我们，我们四个人就都去你的地窖里关起来，看看祸害是否像你说的那么严重。”

‘Oh, gentlemen,’ said the host, ‘I have been wrong. I confess it, but pardon to every sin! You are gentlemen, and I am a poor innkeeper. You will have pity on me.’
“哦，先生们，”主持人说，“我错了。”我承认这一点，但宽恕所有的罪过！你们是先生们，而我是一个穷旅馆老板。你会可怜我的。

‘Ah, if you speak in that way,’ said Athos, ‘you will break my heart, and the tears will flow from my eyes as the wine flowed from the cask. We are not such devils as we appear to be. Come hither, and let us talk.’
“啊，如果你这么说，”阿托斯说，“你就会伤透我的心，我的泪水就会从我的眼睛里流出来，就像酒从木桶里流出来一样。”我们并不像我们看上去那样是魔鬼。过来，让我们谈谈。

The host approached with hesitation.
主人犹豫着走近。

‘Come hither, I say, and don’t be afraid,’ continued Athos. ‘At the very moment when I was about to pay you, I had placed my purse on the table.’
“过来吧，我说，别害怕，”阿多斯继续说道。 “就在我要付钱给你的时候，我把钱包放在了桌子上。”

‘Yes, monsieur.’
“是的，先生。”

‘That purse contained sixty pistoles; where is it?’
“那个钱包里有六十皮斯托尔；它在哪里？'

‘Deposited with the justice; they said it was bad money.’
‘交由司法机关保管；他们说这是劣币。

‘Very well; get me my purse back and keep the sixty pistoles.’
'很好;把我的钱包拿回来，并保留六十皮斯托尔。”

‘But Monseigneur knows very well that justice never lets go that which it once lays hold of. If it were bad money, there might be some hopes; but unfortunately, those were all good pieces.’
“但是大人非常清楚，正义永远不会放开它曾经掌握的东西。如果是劣币，或许还有些希望；如果是劣币，或许还有希望。但不幸的是，这些都是好作品。

‘Manage the matter as well as you can, my good man; it does not concern me, the more so as I have not a livre left.’
“尽你所能处理好这件事，我的好人；这与我无关，尤其是我已经没有里弗了。”

‘Come,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘let us inquire further. Athos’s horse, where is that?’
“来吧，”达达尼昂说，“让我们进一步询问一下。”阿托斯的马，在哪里？

‘In the stable.’
“在马厩里。”

‘How much is it worth?’
'这个值多少钱？'

‘Fifty pistoles at most.’
“最多五十皮斯托。”

‘It’s worth eighty. Take it, and there ends the matter.’
‘值八十。拿着它，事情就这样结束了。”

‘What,’ cried Athos, ‘are you selling my horse—my Bajazet? And pray upon what shall I make my campaign; upon Grimaud?’
“什么，”阿托斯喊道，“你要卖我的马——我的巴雅泽特吗？并祈祷我该做什么；在格里莫身上？

‘I have brought you another,’ said d’Artagnan.
“我给你带来了另一个，”达达尼昂说。

‘Another?’
'其他？'

‘And a magnificent one!’ cried the host.
“真是太棒了！”主人喊道。

‘Well, since there is another finer and younger, why, you may take the old one; and let us drink.’
‘好吧，既然还有一个更优秀、更年轻的，那么，你就拿那个旧的吧；让我们喝酒吧。

‘What?’ asked the host, quite cheerful again.
“什么？”主人又很高兴地问道。

‘Some of that at the bottom, near the laths. There are twentyfive bottles of it left; all the rest were broken by my fall. Bring six of them.’
“其中一些在底部，靠近板条的地方。还剩下二十五瓶；其余的一切都因我的跌倒而破碎。带六个来。

‘Why, this man is a cask!’ said the host, aside. ‘If he only remains here a fortnight, and pays for what he drinks, I shall soon re-establish my business.’
“哎呀，这个人就是个木桶！”主人在一旁说道。 “如果他只在这里待两周，并支付他所喝的酒的费用，我很快就会恢复我的生意。”

‘And don’t forget,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘to bring up four bottles of the same sort for the two English gentlemen.’
“别忘了，”达达尼昂说，“给两位英国绅士带四瓶同样的酒。”

‘And now,’ said Athos, ‘while they bring the wine, tell me, d’Artagnan, what has become of the others, come!’
“现在，”阿多斯说道，“当他们端来酒的时候，告诉我，达达尼昂，其他人怎么样了，来吧！”

D’Artagnan related how he had found Porthos in bed with a strained knee, and Aramis at a table between two theologians. As he finished, the host entered with the wine ordered and a ham which, fortunately for him, had been left out of the cellar.
达达尼昂讲述了他如何发现波尔托斯膝盖拉伤躺在床上，而阿拉米斯坐在两位神学家中间的一张桌子上。当他结束时，主人带着点的酒和火腿走了进来，幸运的是，火腿被留在了地窖里。

‘That’s well!’ said Athos, filling his glass and that of his friend; ‘here’s to Porthos and Aramis! But you, d’Artagnan, what is the matter with you, and what has happened to you personally? You have a sad air.’
“那就好！”阿托斯一边说，一边给他和他的朋友斟满了酒。 “为波托斯和阿拉米斯干杯！但是你，达达尼昂，你到底怎么了？你个人发生了什么事？你有一种悲伤的气氛。

‘Alas,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘it is because I am the most unfortunate.’
“唉，”达达尼昂说，“因为我是最不幸的一个。”

‘Tell me.’
'告诉我。'

‘Presently,’ said d’Artagnan.
“现在，”达达尼昂说。

‘Presently! And why presently? Because you think I am drunk? d’Artagnan, remember this! My ideas are never so clear as when I have had plenty of wine. Speak, then, I am all ears.’
‘现在！为什么现在呢？因为你认为我喝醉了？达达尼昂，记住这一点！当我喝了很多酒时，我的想法变得更加清晰。那么请说吧，我洗耳恭听。

D’Artagnan related his adventure with Mme. Bonacieux. Athos listened to him without a frown; and when he had finished, said, ‘Trifles, only trifles!’ That was his favorite word.
达达尼昂讲述了他与夫人的冒险经历。博纳西厄。阿多斯没有皱眉听他说。当他说完后，他说：“琐事，只是琐事！”这是他最喜欢的词。

‘You always say TRIFLES, my dear Athos!’ said d’Artagnan, ‘and that come very ill from you, who have never loved.’
“你总是说琐事，我亲爱的阿托斯！”达达尼昂说，“你从来没有爱过，这对你来说是非常糟糕的。”

The drink-deadened eye of Athos flashed out, but only for a moment; it became as dull and vacant as before.
阿托斯喝醉了的眼睛闪现出光芒，但只持续了一瞬间；它变得和以前一样沉闷和空虚。

‘That’s true,’ said he, quietly, ‘for my part I have never loved.’
“确实如此，”他平静地说，“就我而言，我从未爱过。”

‘Acknowledge, then, you stony heart,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘that you are wrong to be so hard upon us tender hearts.’
“那么，你这铁石心肠吧，”达达尼昂说，“你对我们这些温柔的心如此严厉是错误的。”

‘Tender hearts! Pierced hearts!’ said Athos.
‘温柔的心啊！心被刺穿了！”阿托斯说道。

‘What do you say?’
'你怎么说？'

‘I say that love is a lottery in which he who wins, wins death! You are very fortunate to have lost, believe me, my dear d’Artagnan. And if I have any counsel to give, it is, always lose!’
“我说，爱情是一张彩票，中奖的人，也赢得了死亡！”相信我，我亲爱的达达尼昂，你输了真是太幸运了。如果我有什么建议的话，那就是，总是失败！

‘She seemed to love me so!’
“她看起来很爱我！”

‘She SEEMED, did she?’
“她看起来是这样，是吗？”

‘Oh, she DID love me!’
“哦，她确实爱我！”

‘You child, why, there is not a man who has not believed, as you do, that his mistress loved him, and there lives not a man who has not been deceived by his mistress.’
“你的孩子，没有一个男人像你一样不相信他的情妇爱他，也没有一个男人没有被他的情妇欺骗过。”

‘Except you, Athos, who never had one.’
“除了你，阿托斯，你从来没有拥有过。”

‘That’s true,’ said Athos, after a moment’s silence, ‘that’s true! I never had one! Let us drink!’
“确实如此，”阿托斯沉默了一会儿后说道，“确实如此！我从来没有过！我们喝酒吧！

‘But then, philosopher that you are,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘instruct me, support me. I stand in need of being taught and consoled.’
“但是，哲学家啊，”达达尼昂说，“请指导我，支持我。”我需要被教导和安慰。

‘Consoled for what?’
“安慰什么？”

‘For my misfortune.’
“为了我的不幸。”

‘Your misfortune is laughable,’ said Athos, shrugging his shoulders; ‘I should like to know what you would say if I were to relate to you a real tale of love!’
“你的不幸是可笑的，”阿托斯耸耸肩说道。 “如果我给你讲一个真实的爱情故事，我想知道你会怎么说！”

‘Which has happened to you?’
“你出了什么事？”

‘Or one of my friends, what matters?’
“或者我的一位朋友，有什么关系吗？”

‘Tell it, Athos, tell it.’
“说吧，阿托斯，说吧。”

‘Better if I drink.’
“我喝点酒就更好了。”

‘Drink and relate, then.’
“那就喝酒聊聊吧。”

‘Not a bad idea!’ said Athos, emptying and refilling his glass. ‘The two things agree marvelously well.’
“这主意不错！”阿托斯一边说，一边倒空杯子，又重新倒满。 “这两件事非常吻合。”

‘I am all attention,’ said d’Artagnan.
“我全神贯注，”达达尼昂说。

Athos collected himself, and in proportion as he did so, d’Artagnan saw that he became pale. He was at that period of intoxication in which vulgar drinkers fall on the floor and go to sleep. He kept himself upright and dreamed, without sleeping. This somnambulism of drunkenness had something frightful in it.
阿多斯镇定下来，达达尼昂发现他的脸色也随之变得苍白。他正处于那种粗俗的饮酒者倒在地板上睡着的陶醉时期。他保持身体直立，做梦，没有睡觉。这种醉酒的梦游有些可怕。

‘You particularly wish it?’ asked he.
“你特别希望这样吗？”他问。

‘I pray for it,’ said d’Artagnan.
“我为此祈祷，”达达尼昂说。

‘Be it then as you desire. One of my friends—one of my friends, please to observe, not myself,’ said Athos, interrupting himself with a melancholy smile, ‘one of the counts of my province—that is to say, of Berry—noble as a Dandolo or a Montmorency, at twenty-five years of age fell in love with a girl of sixteen, beautiful as fancy can paint. Through the ingenuousness of her age beamed an ardent mind, not of the woman, but of the poet. She did not please; she intoxicated. She lived in a small town with her brother, who was a curate. Both had recently come into the country. They came nobody knew whence; but when seeing her so lovely and her brother so pious, nobody thought of asking whence they came. They were said, however, to be of good extraction. My friend, who was seigneur of the country, might have seduced her, or taken her by force, at his will—for he was master. Who would have come to the assistance of two strangers, two unknown persons? Unfortunately he was an honorable man; he married her. The fool! The ass! The idiot!’
‘那就如你所愿吧。我的一位朋友——我的一位朋友，请注意观察，而不是我自己，”阿多斯说道，带着忧郁的微笑打断了自己，“我的省份——也就是说，贝里的一位伯爵——高贵得像丹多洛或蒙莫朗西二十五岁时爱上了一个十六岁的女孩，她美丽得像想象中的那样。她这个年纪的天真烂漫，散发出一颗热情的心，不是女人的心，而是诗人的心。她不高兴；她陶醉了。她和担任牧师的哥哥住在一个小镇上。两人都是最近才来到这个国家的。他们不知从何而来；但看到她如此可爱，她的哥哥如此虔诚，没有人想到要问他们是从哪里来的。然而，据说他们出身很好。我的朋友是这个国家的领主，他可能会按照自己的意愿引诱她，或者用武力带走她——因为他是主人。谁会来帮助两个陌生人、两个不认识的人呢？不幸的是，他是一个正直的人；他娶了她。傻瓜！屁股！白痴！’

‘How so, if he love her?’ asked d’Artagnan.
“如果他爱她怎么办？”达达尼昂问道。

‘Wait,’ said Athos. ‘He took her to his chateau, and made her the first lady in the province; and in justice it must be allowed that she supported her rank becomingly.’
“等等，”阿托斯说。 “他把她带到了他的城堡，让她成为该省的第一夫人；出于正义，必须允许她适当地支持她的地位。

‘Well?’ asked d’Artagnan.
“怎么样？”达达尼昂问道。

‘Well, one day when she was hunting with her husband,’ continued Athos, in a low voice, and speaking very quickly, ‘she fell from her horse and fainted. The count flew to her to help, and as she appeared to be oppressed by her clothes, he ripped them open with his ponaird, and in so doing laid bare her shoulder. d’Artagnan,’ said Athos, with a maniacal burst of laughter, ‘guess what she had on her shoulder.’
“嗯，有一天，当她和丈夫一起打猎时，”阿多斯低声说道，语速很快，“她从马上摔下来，昏了过去。伯爵飞奔到她身边帮忙，当她似乎被衣服压着时，他用短刀将它们撕开，这样就暴露了她的肩膀。达达尼昂，”阿多斯突然大笑起来，“猜猜她肩上扛着什么。”

‘How can I tell?’ said d’Artagnan.
“我怎么知道？”达达尼昂说。

‘A FLEUR-DE-LIS,’ said Athos. ‘She was branded.’
“百合花，”阿托斯说。 “她被打上了烙印。”

Athos emptied at a single draught the glass he held in his hand.
阿多斯一口气喝光了手里的杯子。

‘Horror!’ cried d’Artagnan. ‘What do you tell me?’
“太恐怖了！”达达尼昂喊道。 '你告诉我什么？'

‘Truth, my friend. The angel was a demon; the poor young girl had stolen the sacred vessels from a church.’
‘说实话，我的朋友。天使是恶魔；这个可怜的年轻女孩从教堂偷了圣器。

‘And what did the count do?’
“伯爵做了什么？”

‘The count was of the highest nobility. He had on his estates the rights of high and low tribunals. He tore the dress of the countess to pieces; he tied her hands behind her, and hanged her on a tree.’
“伯爵是最高贵族。他对自己的庄园拥有高等法庭和低级法庭的权利。他把伯爵夫人的衣服撕成碎片；他把她的双手反绑在身后，然后把她挂在树上。”

‘Heavens, Athos, a murder?’ cried d’Artagnan.
“天哪，阿多斯，这是谋杀吗？”达达尼昂喊道。

‘No less,’ said Athos, as pale as a corpse. ‘But methinks I need wine!’ and he seized by the neck the last bottle that was left, put it to his mouth, and emptied it at a single draught, as he would have emptied an ordinary glass.
“同样如此，”阿托斯说道，脸色苍白如死人。 “但我想我需要酒！”他抓住了剩下的最后一瓶酒，把它放到嘴边，一口气喝光了，就像喝普通玻璃杯一样。

Then he let his head sink upon his two hands, while d’Artagnan stood before him, stupefied.
然后他把头埋在两只手上，达达尼昂站在他面前，目瞪口呆。

‘That has cured me of beautiful, poetical, and loving women,’ said Athos, after a considerable pause, raising his head, and forgetting to continue the fiction of the count. ‘God grant you as much! Let us drink.’
“这治愈了我对美丽、诗意和可爱女人的喜爱。”阿托斯停顿了相当长的一段时间后，抬起头说道，忘记了继续伯爵的小说。 ‘愿上帝赐福给你！我们喝吧。

‘Then she is dead?’ stammered d’Artagnan.
“那么她死了？”达达尼昂结结巴巴地说。

‘PARBLEU!’ said Athos. ‘But hold out your glass. Some ham, my boy, or we can’t drink.’
“PARBLEU！”阿多斯说。 “但是请拿出你的杯子。”一些火腿，我的孩子，否则我们不能喝酒。

‘And her brother?’ added d’Artagnan, timidly.
“那她哥哥呢？”达达尼昂胆怯地补充道。

‘Her brother?’ replied Athos.
“她的兄弟？”阿托斯回答。

‘Yes, the priest.’
“是的，神父。”

‘Oh, I inquired after him for the purpose of hanging him likewise; but he was beforehand with me, he had quit the curacy the night before.’
“哦，我问过他，是为了同样绞死他；但他事先就和我在一起了，前一天晚上他就辞去了牧师职务。

‘Was it ever known who this miserable fellow was?’
“有人知道这个可怜的家伙是谁吗？”

‘He was doubtless the first lover and accomplice of the fair lady. A worthy man, who had pretended to be a curate for the purpose of getting his mistress married, and securing her a position. He has been hanged and quartered, I hope.’
“他无疑是这位美丽女士的初恋情人和同谋。一个正派的男人，为了让自己的情妇娶妻，并保住她的职位，而冒充牧师。我希望他已被绞死并分尸。

‘My God, my God!’ cried d’Artagnan, quite stunned by the relation of this horrible adventure.
“我的上帝，我的上帝！”达达尼昂喊道，他对这次可怕的冒险事件感到非常震惊。

‘Taste some of this ham, d’Artagnan; it is exquisite,’ said Athos, cutting a slice, which he placed on the young man’s plate.
“尝尝这个火腿吧，达达尼昂； “真是太精致了。”阿托斯边说边切了一片，放在年轻人的盘子里。

‘What a pity it is there were only four like this in the cellar. I could have drunk fifty bottles more.’
‘可惜地窖里只有四个这样的人。我本来可以再喝五十瓶。”

D’Artagnan could no longer endure this conversation, which had made him bewildered. Allowing his head to sink upon his two hands, he pretended to sleep.
达达尼昂再也无法忍受这场让他困惑的谈话。他把头埋在两只手上，假装睡着了。

‘These young fellows can none of them drink,’ said Athos, looking at him with pity, ‘and yet this is one of the best!’
“这些年轻人都不会喝酒，”阿多斯说道，怜悯地看着他，“但这却是最好的酒之一！”

28 THE RETURN
28 回归

D’Artagnan was astounded by the terrible confidence of Athos; yet many things appeared very obscure to him in this half revelation. In the first place it had been made by a man quite drunk to one who was half drunk; and yet, in spite of the incertainty which the vapor of three or four bottles of Burgundy carries with it to the brain, d’Artagnan, when awaking on the following morning, had all the words of Athos as present to his memory as if they then fell from his mouth—they had been so impressed upon his mind. All this doubt only gave rise to a more lively desire of arriving at a certainty, and he went into his friend’s chamber with a fixed determination of renewing the conversation of the preceding evening; but he found Athos quite himself again—that is to say, the most shrewd and impenetrable of men. Besides which, the Musketeer, after having exchanged a hearty shake of the hand with him, broached the matter first.
达达尼昂对阿托斯可怕的自信感到震惊。然而，在这半个启示中，许多事情对他来说显得非常模糊。首先，它是由一个喝得酩酊大醉的人对一个半醉的人做出的；然而，尽管三四瓶勃艮第酒的蒸气带着不确定性进入了大脑，达达尼昂第二天早上醒来时，阿托斯的所有话都在他的记忆中，仿佛它们是然后从他嘴里掉下来——它们已经深深地印在了他的脑海里。所有这些疑虑只会让他更强烈地渴望确定答案，于是他走进朋友的房间，下定决心要重温前一天晚上的谈话。但他又发现阿多斯又恢复了原来的样子——也就是说，他是最精明、最难以捉摸的人。除此之外，火枪手在与他握手之后，率先提出了此事。

‘I was pretty drunk yesterday, d’Artagnan,’ said he, ‘I can tell that by my tongue, which was swollen and hot this morning, and by my pulse, which was very tremulous. I wager that I uttered a thousand extravagances.’
“我昨天喝得很醉，达达尼昂，”他说，“我的舌头可以看出这一点，今天早上我的舌头又肿又热，我的脉搏也非常颤抖。我敢打赌我说了一千遍夸张的话。

While saying this he looked at his friend with an earnestness that embarrassed him.
说这话的时候，他看着自己的朋友，眼神里充满了让他尴尬的认真。

‘No,’ replied d’Artagnan, ‘if I recollect well what you said, it was nothing out of the common way.’
“不，”达达尼昂回答说，“如果我没记错的话，这没什么不寻常的。”

‘Ah, you surprise me. I thought I had told you a most lamentable story.’ And he looked at the young man as if he would read the bottom of his heart.
‘啊，你让我很惊讶。我以为我给你讲了一个最可悲的故事。”他看着年轻人，仿佛能读懂他的心底。

‘My faith,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘it appears that I was more drunk than you, since I remember nothing of the kind.’
“我的老天爷，”达达尼昂说道，“看来我比你醉得更厉害，因为我不记得有过这样的事。”

Athos did not trust this reply, and he resumed; ‘you cannot have failed to remark, my dear friend, that everyone has his particular kind of drunkenness, sad or gay. My drunkenness is always sad, and when I am thoroughly drunk my mania is to relate all the lugubrious stories which my foolish nurse inculcated into my brain. That is my failing—a capital failing, I admit; but with that exception, I am a good drinker.’
阿多斯不相信这个答复，又继续说道。 “我亲爱的朋友，你不可能不说，每个人都有自己独特的醉态，无论是悲伤的还是快乐的。我的醉酒总是令人悲伤，当我喝得酩酊大醉时，我的狂热就是讲述我愚蠢的护士灌输给我大脑的所有悲惨故事。这就是我的失败——我承认这是一个致命的失败；但除此之外，我是一个很好的饮酒者。

Athos spoke this in so natural a manner that d’Artagnan was shaken in his conviction.
阿托斯说这话的方式如此自然，以至于达达尼昂的信念动摇了。

‘It is that, then,’ replied the young man, anxious to find out the truth, ‘it is that, then, I remember as we remember a dream. We were speaking of hanging.’
“那么，就是这样，”年轻人回答说，他急于找出真相，“那么，就是这样，我记得就像我们记得一个梦一样。我们正在谈论绞刑。

‘Ah, you see how it is,’ said Athos, becoming still paler, but yet attempting to laugh; ‘I was sure it was so—the hanging of people is my nightmare.’
“啊，你知道是怎么回事，”阿多斯说，脸色变得更加苍白，但仍想笑。 “我确信确实如此——绞死人是我的噩梦。”

‘Yes, yes,’ replied d’Artagnan. ‘I remember now; yes, it was about—stop a minute—yes, it was about a woman.’
“是的，是的，”达达尼昂回答道。 '我想起来了;是的，这是关于——停一下——是的，这是关于一个女人。

‘That’s it,’ replied Athos, becoming almost livid; ‘that is my grand story of the fair lady, and when I relate that, I must be very drunk.’
“就是这样，”阿托斯回答道，他的脸几乎变得铁青。 “这就是我关于那位美丽女士的伟大故事，当我讲述这个故事时，我一定是喝醉了。”

‘Yes, that was it,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘the story of a tall, fair lady, with blue eyes.’
“是的，就是这样，”达达尼昂说，“一个高个子、美丽的蓝眼睛女士的故事。”

‘Yes, who was hanged.’
“是的，谁被绞死了。”

‘By her husband, who was a nobleman of your acquaintance,’ continued d’Artagnan, looking intently at Athos.
“她的丈夫，你认识的一位贵族，”达达尼昂继续说道，专注地看着阿多斯。

‘Well, you see how a man may compromise himself when he does not know what he says,’ replied Athos, shrugging his shoulders as if he thought himself an object of pity. ‘I certainly never will get drunk again, d’Artagnan; it is too bad a habit.’
“好吧，你看，当一个人不知道自己在说什么时，他可能会做出妥协，”阿托斯回答道，耸了耸肩，仿佛他认为自己是一个可怜的对象。 “我绝对不会再喝醉了，达达尼昂；这是一个太糟糕的习惯。

D’Artagnan remained silent; and then changing the conversation all at once, Athos said:
达达尼昂保持沉默。然后突然话锋一转，阿托斯说道：

‘By the by, I thank you for the horse you have brought me.’
“顺便说一句，我感谢你给我带来的马。”

‘Is it to your mind?’ asked d’Artagnan.
“你觉得这样吗？”达达尼昂问道。

‘Yes; but it is not a horse for hard work.’
'是的;但它不是一匹适合努力工作的马。

‘You are mistaken; I rode him nearly ten leagues in less than an hour and a half, and he appeared no more distressed than if he had only made the tour of the Place St. Sulpice.’
'你误会了;我在不到一个半小时的时间里骑着他走了近十里格，他看起来并不比只游览圣叙尔皮斯广场更痛苦。

‘Ah, you begin to awaken my regret.’
“啊，你开始唤醒我的悔恨了。”

‘Regret?’
'后悔？'

‘Yes; I have parted with him.’
'是的;我已经和他分手了。

‘How?’
'如何？'

‘Why, here is the simple fact. This morning I awoke at six o’clock. You were still fast asleep, and I did not know what to do with myself; I was still stupid from our yesterday’s debauch. As I came into the public room, I saw one of our Englishman bargaining with a dealer for a horse, his own having died yesterday from bleeding. I drew near, and found he was bidding a hundred pistoles for a chestnut nag. ‘PARDIEU,’ said I, ‘my good gentleman, I have a horse to sell, too.’ ‘Ay, and a very fine one! I saw him yesterday; your friend’s lackey was leading him.’ ‘Do you think he is worth a hundred pistoles?’ ‘Yes! Will you sell him to me for that sum?’ ‘No; but I will play for him.’ ‘What?’ ‘At dice.’ No sooner said than done, and I lost the horse. Ah, ah! But please to observe I won back the equipage,’ cried Athos.
‘为什么，这是一个简单的事实。今天早上我六点钟就醒了。你还在熟睡，我不知道该怎么办；我还是因为昨天的放荡而变得愚蠢。当我走进公共房间时，我看到我们的一个英国人正在与经销商讨价还价一匹马，他自己的马昨天因流血而死。我走近一看，发现他正以一百皮斯托尔的价格买一匹栗色马。 “帕迪厄，”我说，“我的好先生，我也有一匹马要卖。”“是的，一匹非常好的马！我昨天见过他； “你认为他值一百皮斯托尔吗？” “是的！你愿意以这个价钱把他卖给我吗？ “什么？”“掷骰子。”说完，我就输掉了马。啊啊！但请注意，我赢回了马车，”阿托斯喊道。

D’Artagnan looked much disconcerted.
达达尼昂看上去很困惑。

‘This vexes you?’ said Athos.
“这让你烦恼吗？”阿托斯说。

‘Well, I must confess it does,’ replied d’Artagnan. ‘That horse was to have identified us in the day of battle. It was a pledge, a remembrance. Athos, you have done wrong.’
“嗯，我必须承认确实如此，”达达尼昂回答道。 “那匹马本应在战斗当天识别出我们的身份。这是一个誓言，也是一个纪念。阿托斯，你做错了。

‘But, my dear friend, put yourself in my place,’ replied the Musketeer. ‘I was hipped to death; and still further, upon my honor, I don’t like English horses. If it is only to be recognized, why the saddle will suffice for that; it is quite remarkable enough. As to the horse, we can easily find some excuse for its disappearance. Why the devil! A horse is mortal; suppose mine had had the glanders or the farcy?’
“但是，我亲爱的朋友，请设身处地为我着想，”火枪手回答道。 “我被踢死了；而且，以我的名誉担保，我不喜欢英国马。如果只是为了被认可，为什么马鞍就足够了？这已经够了不起了。至于那匹马，我们很容易为它的失踪找到一些借口。何为恶魔！马是会死的；假设我的感染了鼻疽或闹剧呢？

D’Artagnan did not smile.
达达尼昂没有笑。

‘It vexes me greatly,’ continued Athos, ‘that you attach so much importance to these animals, for I am not yet at the end of my story.’
“这让我非常恼火，”阿多斯继续说道，“你对这些动物如此重视，因为我的故事还没有讲完。”

‘What else have you done.’
“你还做了什么？”

‘After having lost my own horse, nine against ten—see how near— I formed an idea of staking yours.’
“在以九比十失去了我自己的马之后——看看有多近——我想到了赌你的马。”

‘Yes; but you stopped at the idea, I hope?’
'是的;但我希望你停止了这个想法？

‘No; for I put it in execution that very minute.’
'不;因为我在那一刻就把它付诸实施了。

‘And the consequence?’ said d’Artagnan, in great anxiety.
“结果呢？”达达尼昂非常焦虑地说。

‘I threw, and I lost.’
“我扔了，但我输了。”

‘What, my horse?’
“什么，我的马？”

‘Your horse, seven against eight; a point short—you know the proverb.’
‘你的马，七对八；少了一点——你知道这句谚语。

‘Athos, you are not in your right senses, I swear.’
“阿多斯，我发誓，你的理智不对。”

‘My dear lad, that was yesterday, when I was telling you silly stories, it was proper to tell me that, and not this morning. I lost him then, with all his appointments and furniture.’
“我亲爱的小伙子，那是昨天，当我给你讲愚蠢的故事时，告诉我这些是合适的，而不是今天早上。然后我就失去了他，连同他所有的约会和家具。

‘Really, this is frightful.’
“真的，这太可怕了。”

‘Stop a minute; you don’t know all yet. I should make an excellent gambler if I were not too hot-headed; but I was hotheaded, just as if I had been drinking. Well, I was not hotheaded then—‘
‘停一下；你还不知道全部。如果我不是太头脑发热的话，我应该会成为一名出色的赌徒。但我却头脑发热，就像喝了酒一样。好吧，当时我并不头脑发热——”

‘Well, but what else could you play for? You had nothing left?’
‘好吧，但是你还能玩什么呢？你什么也没有剩下吗？

‘Oh, yes, my friend; there was still that diamond left which sparkles on your finger, and which I had observed yesterday.’
“哦，是的，我的朋友；你的手指上还剩下那颗闪闪发光的钻石，这是我昨天观察到的。”

‘This diamond!’ said d’Artagnan, placing his hand eagerly on his ring.
“这颗钻石！”达达尼昂说道，同时急切地把手放在戒指上。

‘And as I am a connoisseur in such things, having had a few of my own once, I estimated it at a thousand pistoles.’
“我是这类东西的鉴赏家，曾经拥有过一些，我估计它有一千皮斯托尔。”

‘I hope,’ said d’Artagnan, half dead with fright, ‘you made no mention of my diamond?’
“我希望，”达达尼昂吓得半死，说道，“你没有提到我的钻石吧？”

‘On the contrary, my dear friend, this diamond became our only resource; with it I might regain our horses and their harnesses, and even money to pay our expenses on the road.’
“相反，我亲爱的朋友，这颗钻石成了我们唯一的资源；有了它，我可以重新获得我们的马匹和马具，甚至还有钱来支付路上的费用。

‘Athos, you make me tremble!’ cried d’Artagnan.
“阿多斯，你让我颤抖！”达达尼昂喊道。

‘I mentioned your diamond then to my adversary, who had likewise remarked it. What the devil, my dear, do you think you can wear a star from heaven on your finger, and nobody observe it? Impossible!’
“当时我向我的对手提到了你的钻石，他也同样评论了它。天哪，亲爱的，你以为你可以把一颗来自天上的星星戴在你的手指上，而没有人注意到它吗？不可能的！'

‘Go on, go on, my dear fellow!’ said d’Artagnan; ‘for upon my honor, you will kill me with your indifference.’
“继续，继续，我亲爱的朋友！”达达尼昂说。 “以我的名誉担保，你的冷漠会杀了我。”

‘We divided, then, this diamond into ten parts of a hundred pistoles each.’
“然后，我们将这颗钻石分成十份，每份一百皮斯托。”

‘You are laughing at me, and want to try me!’ said d’Artagnan, whom anger began to take by the hair, as Minerva takes Achilles, in the ILLIAD.
“你在嘲笑我，还想考验我！”达达尼昂说道，他的愤怒开始抓住他的头发，就像《伊利亚特》中密涅瓦抓住阿喀琉斯一样。

‘No, I do not jest, MORDIEU! I should like to have seen you in my place! I had been fifteen days without seeing a human face, and had been left to brutalize myself in the company of bottles.’
“不，我没有开玩笑，莫迪厄！我很想在我的地方见到你！我已经十五天没有见过人脸了，只能在瓶子的陪伴下残酷地折磨自己。

‘That was no reason for staking my diamond!’ replied d’Artagnan, closing his hand with a nervous spasm.
“这不是拿我的钻石做赌注的理由！”达达尼昂回答道，紧张地痉挛地合上了他的手。

‘Hear the end. Ten parts of a hundred pistoles each, in ten throws, without revenge; in thirteen throws I had lost all—in thirteen throws. The number thirteen was always fatal to me; it was on the thirteenth of July that—‘
‘听听结局。每投十次，每人一百皮枪十份，没有报复；在十三次投掷中，我输掉了一切——在十三次投掷中。十三这个数字对我来说总是致命的。七月十三日——”

‘VENTREBLEU!’ cried d’Artagnan, rising from the table, the story of the present day making him forget that of the preceding one.
“文特布勒！”达达尼昂喊道，从桌子上站起来，今天的故事让他忘记了前一天的故事。

‘Patience!’ said Athos; ‘I had a plan. The Englishman was an original; I had seen him conversing that morning with Grimaud, and Grimaud had told me that he had made him proposals to enter into his service. I staked Grimaud, the silent Grimaud, divided into ten portions.’
“耐心点！”阿托斯说道。 “我有一个计划。这位英国人是一位原创者。那天早上我看到他和格里莫谈话，格里莫告诉我，他已经向他提出了加入他的服务的建议。我把格里莫，沉默的格里莫，分成十份。

‘Well, what next?’ said d’Artagnan, laughing in spite of himself.
“好吧，接下来怎么办？”达达尼昂说，不由自主地笑了起来。

‘Grimaud himself, understand; and with the ten parts of Grimaud, which are not worth a ducatoon, I regained the diamond. Tell me, now, if persistence is not a virtue?’
“格里莫本人，请理解；我用不值一文钱的格里莫的十个部分，重新​​获得了钻石。现在告诉我，坚持是否不是一种美德？

‘My faith! But this is droll,’ cried d’Artagnan, consoled, and holding his sides with laughter.
‘我的信仰！但这真是滑稽。”达达尼昂一边安慰一边喊道，一边笑一边抱着自己的身体。

‘You may guess, finding the luck turned, that I again staked the diamond.’
“你可能会猜到，运气好的话，我又把钻石押在了赌注上。”

‘The devil!’ said d’Artagnan, becoming angry again.
“魔鬼！”达达尼昂说道，他又生气了。

‘I won back your harness, then your horse, then my harness, then my horse, and then I lost again. In brief, I regained your harness and then mine. That’s where we are. That was a superb throw, so I left off there.’
“我赢回了你的挽具，然后是你的马，然后是我的挽具，然后是我的马，然后我又输了。简而言之，我夺回了你的安全带，然后是我的。这就是我们现在的处境。那是一次精彩的投掷，所以我就到此为止了。

D’Artagnan breathed as if the whole hostelry had been removed from his breast.
达达尼昂的呼吸仿佛整个旅馆都从他胸中移走了。

‘Then the diamond is safe?’ said he, timidly.
“那么钻石安全了？”他胆怯地说。

‘Intact, my dear friend; besides the harness of your Bucephalus and mine.’
“完好无损，我亲爱的朋友；除了你和我的 Bucephalus 的挽具之外。”

‘But what is the use of harnesses without horses?’
“但是如果没有马，挽具有什么用呢？”

‘I have an idea about them.’
“我对他们有一个想法。”

‘Athos, you make me shudder.’
“阿托斯，你让我不寒而栗。”

‘Listen to me. You have not played for a long time, d’Artagnan.’
'听我说。你已经很久没玩了，达达尼昂。”

‘And I have no inclination to play.’
“而且我没有兴趣玩。”

‘Swear to nothing. You have not played for a long time, I said; you ought, then, to have a good hand.’
‘发誓什么也不做。我说，你已经很久没玩了；那么你应该有一手好牌。

‘Well, what then?’
“那么，然后呢？”

‘Well; the Englishman and his companion are still here. I remarked that he regretted the horse furniture very much. You appear to think much of your horse. In your place I would stake the furniture against the horse.’
'出色地;英国人和他的同伴还在这里。我说他非常后悔马家具。你似乎很重视你的马。代替你，我会把家具放在马背上。

‘But he will not wish for only one harness.’
“但他不会只想要一根安全带。”

‘Stake both, PARDIEU! I am not selfish, as you are.’
‘把两者都押上，帕迪厄！我不像你一样自私。

‘You would do so?’ said d’Artagnan, undecided, so strongly did the confidence of Athos begin to prevail, in spite of himself.
“你会这么做吗？”达达尼昂犹豫不决地说，阿多斯的信心如此强烈，不由自主地开始占上风。

‘On my honor, in one single throw.’
“以我的名誉担保，一掷。”

‘But having lost the horses, I am particularly anxious to preserve the harnesses.’
“但是失去了马匹后，我特别渴望保存马具。”

‘Stake your diamond, then.’
“那就放上你的钻石吧。”

‘This? That’s another matter. Never, never!’
'这？那是另一回事了。从来没有，从来没有！

‘The devil!’ said Athos. ‘I would propose to you to stake Planchet, but as that has already been done, the Englishman would not, perhaps, be willing.’
“魔鬼！”阿托斯说道。 “我会建议你押注普朗谢特，但既然那已经完成了，英国人也许不会愿意。”

‘Decidedly, my dear Athos,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘I should like better not to risk anything.’
“当然，我亲爱的阿托斯，”达达尼昂说，“我最好不要冒任何风险。”

‘That’s a pity,’ said Athos, coolly. ‘The Englishman is overflowing with pistoles. Good Lord, try one throw! One throw is soon made!’
“真可惜，”阿托斯冷冷地说。 “英国人手里充满了手枪。上帝啊，尝试一下吧！一掷很快就完成了！

‘And if I lose?’
“如果我输了呢？”

‘You will win.’
'你会赢。'

‘But if I lose?’
“但是如果我输了呢？”

‘Well, you will surrender the harnesses.’
“好吧，你会交出安全带。”

‘Have with you for one throw!’ said d’Artagnan.
“和你一起扔一掷吧！”达达尼昂说道。

Athos went in quest of the Englishman, whom he found in the stable, examining the harnesses with a greedy eye. The opportunity was good. He proposed the conditions—the two harnesses, either against one horse or a hundred pistoles. The Englishman calculated fast; the two harnesses were worth three hundred pistoles. He consented.
阿多斯去找那个英国人，他在马厩里发现了他，他用贪婪的目光检查着马具。机会很好。他提出了条件——两条挽具，要么对抗一匹马，要么对抗一百皮斯托尔。英国人计算得很快；两条挽具价值三百皮斯托尔。他同意了。

D’Artagnan threw the dice with a trembling hand, and turned up the number three; his paleness terrified Athos, who, however, consented himself with saying, ‘That’s a sad throw, comrade; you will have the horses fully equipped, monsieur.’
达达尼昂用颤抖的手掷骰子，结果是数字三。他脸色苍白，吓坏了阿托斯，但阿托斯同意了，说道：“这真是一次悲惨的失败，同志；”先生，您的马匹将会装备齐全。”

The Englishman, quite triumphant, did not even give himself the trouble to shake the dice. He threw them on the table without looking at them, so sure was he of victory; d’Artagnan turned aside to conceal his ill humor.
英国人得意洋洋，甚至懒得去摇骰子。他看也不看就把它们扔到桌子上，他确信自己已经胜利了。达达尼昂转过身来掩饰他的坏脾气。

‘Hold, hold, hold!’ said Athos, wit his quiet tone; ‘that throw of the dice is extraordinary. I have not seen such a one four times in my life. Two aces!’
“坚持，坚持，坚持！”阿托斯用平静的语气说道。 ‘掷骰子的动作非同寻常。我一生中还没有见过四次这样的人。两张王牌！

The Englishman looked, and was seized with astonishment. d’Artagnan looked, and was seized with pleasure.
英国人一看，大吃一惊。达达尼昂看了一眼，心中充满了喜悦。

‘Yes,’ continued Athos, ‘four times only; once at the house of Monsieur Crequy; another time at my own house in the country, in my chateau at—when I had a chateau; a third time at Monsieur de Treville’s where it surprised us all; and the fourth time at a cabaret, where it fell to my lot, and where I lost a hundred louis and a supper on it.’
“是的，”阿多斯继续说道，“只有四次；有一次在克雷奎先生家里；另一次是在我自己在乡下的家里，在我的城堡里——当时我有一座城堡；第三次是在德特雷维尔先生那里，这让我们所有人都感到惊讶。第四次是在一家歌舞厅，那是我的命运，我在那里损失了一百路易和一顿晚餐。

‘Then Monsieur takes his horse back again,’ said the Englishman.
“然后先生又牵回他的马了，”英国人说道。

‘Certainly,’ said d’Artagnan.
“当然，”达达尼昂说。

‘Then there is no revenge?’
“那么就没有报复了吗？”

‘Our conditions said, ‘No revenge,’ you will please to recollect.’
“我们的条件是‘不报复’，请你记住。”

‘That is true; the horse shall be restored to your lackey, monsieur.’
'那是真实的;先生，这匹马将归还给您的仆人。”

‘A moment,’ said Athos; ‘with your permission, monsieur, I wish to speak a word with my friend.’
“等一下，”阿托斯说。 “先生，如果您允许的话，我想和我的朋友说句话。”

‘Say on.’
“说吧。”

Athos drew d’Artagnan aside.
阿多斯把达达尼昂拉到一边。

‘Well, Tempter, what more do you want with me?’ said d’Artagnan. ‘You want me to throw again, do you not?’
“那么，坦普特，你还想要什么？”达达尼昂说道。 “你想让我再扔一次，不是吗？”

‘No, I would wish you to reflect.’
“不，我希望你反思一下。”

‘On what?’
'什么？'

‘You mean to take your horse?’
“你想带走你的马吗？”

‘Without doubt.’
'毫无疑问。'

‘You are wrong, then. I would take the hundred pistoles. You know you have staked the harnesses against the horse or a hundred pistoles, at your choice.’
‘那么你就错了。我愿意拿一百皮斯托尔。你知道你已经把挽具固定在马身上，或者一百个皮斯托尔，由你选择。

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘Well, then, I repeat, you are wrong. What is the use of one horse for us two? I could not ride behind. We should look like the two sons of Anmon, who had lost their brother. You cannot think of humiliating me by prancing along by my side on that magnificent charger. For my part, I should not hesitate a moment; I should take the hundred pistoles. We want money for our return to Paris.’
“那么，我再说一遍，你错了。一匹马对我们两个人有什么用？我不能骑在后面。我们应该看起来像失去兄弟的安蒙的两个儿子。你不可能骑着那匹华丽的战马在我身边腾跃而行，以此来羞辱我。就我而言，我应该毫不犹豫；我应该拿走那一百皮斯托尔。我们需要钱返回巴黎。”

‘I am much attached to that horse, Athos.’
“我非常喜欢那匹马，阿托斯。”

‘And there again you are wrong. A horse slips and injures a joint; a horse stumbles and breaks his knees to the bone; a horse eats out of a manger in which a glandered horse has eaten. There is a horse, while on the contrary, the hundred pistoles feed their master.’
‘你又错了。马滑倒并伤及关节；一匹马绊倒，膝盖骨折；一匹马从马槽里吃东西，而马槽里的马曾吃过鼻疽病。有一匹马，而相反，一百皮斯托尔喂他们的主人。

‘But how shall we get back?’
“但是我们要怎么回去呢？”

‘Upon our lackey’s horses, PARDIEU. Anybody may see by our bearing that we are people of condition.’
“在我们仆人的马匹上，帕迪厄。任何人都可以从我们的举止看出我们是有条件的人。

‘Pretty figures we shall cut on ponies while Aramis and Porthos caracole on their steeds.’
“当阿拉米斯和波尔托斯·卡拉科骑着他们的战马时，我们会在小马身上砍下漂亮的身影。”

‘Aramis! Porthos!’ cried Athos, and laughed aloud.
‘阿拉米斯！ “波托斯！”阿托斯喊道，同时放声大笑。

‘What is it?’ asked d’Artagnan, who did not at all comprehend the hilarity of his friend.
“什么事？”达达尼昂问道，他根本不理解他朋友的欢笑。

‘Nothing, nothing! Go on!’
'没事没事！继续！'

‘Your advice, then?’
“那么你的建议呢？”

‘To take the hundred pistoles, d’Artagnan. With the hundred pistoles we can live well to the end of the month. We have undergone a great deal of fatigue, remember, and a little rest will do no harm.’
“拿走一百皮斯托尔，达达尼昂。有了一百皮斯托尔，我们就可以过好日子到月底了。请记住，我们已经经历了很大的疲劳，稍微休息一下也没什么坏处。”

‘I rest? Oh, no, Athos. Once in Paris, I shall prosecute my search for that unfortunate woman!’
'我休息？哦，不，阿托斯。一旦到达巴黎，我就会继续寻找那个不幸的女人！

‘Well, you may be assured that your horse will not be half so serviceable to you for that purpose as good golden louis. Take the hundred pistoles, my friend; take the hundred pistoles!’
“好吧，你可以放心，为了这个目的，你的马对你的作用不会比善良的金路易斯一半好。拿走一百皮斯托尔吧，我的朋友；拿走一百皮斯托尔！”

D’Artagnan only required one reason to be satisfied. This last reason appeared convincing. Besides, he feared that by resisting longer he should appear selfish in the eyes of Athos. He acquiesced, therefore, and chose the hundred pistoles, which the Englishman paid down on the spot.
达达尼昂只需要一个满意的理由。最后一个理由似乎很有说服力。此外，他担心自己再抵抗下去，会在阿托斯眼中显得自私。因此，他默许了，并选择了一百皮斯托尔，英国人当场就付了钱。

They then determined to depart. Peace with the landlord, in addition to Athos’s old horse, cost six pistoles. D’Artagnan and Athos took the nags of Planchet and Grimaud, and the two lackeys started on foot, carrying the saddles on their heads.
然后他们决定离开。与地主讲和，加上阿多斯的老马，花费了六皮斯托尔。达达尼昂和阿托斯牵着普朗歇和格里莫的马，两个仆人头上顶着马鞍，开始步行。

However ill our two friends were mounted, they were soon far in advance of their servants, and arrived at Creveccoeur. From a distance they perceived Aramis, seated in a melancholy manner at his window, looking out, like Sister Anne, at the dust in the horizon.
不管我们的两个朋友骑得有多病，他们很快就远远领先于他们的仆人，到达了克雷韦科尔。他们从远处看到阿拉米斯，他忧郁地坐在窗前，像安妮修女一样，望着地平线上的尘埃。

‘HOLA, Aramis! What the devil are you doing there?’ cried the two friends.
‘你好，阿拉米斯！ “你们到底在做什么？”两个朋友喊道。

‘Ah, is that you, d’Artagnan, and you, Athos?’ said the young man. ‘I was reflecting upon the rapidity with which the blessings of this world leave us. My English horse, which has just disappeared amid a cloud of dust, has furnished me with a living image of the fragility of the things of the earth. Life itself may be resolved into three words: ERAT, EST, FUIT.’
“啊，是你吗，达达尼昂，还有你，阿托斯？”年轻人说道。 “我在反思这个世界的祝福是如何迅速地离开我们的。我的英国马刚刚消失在尘埃云中，它为我提供了地球上万物脆弱的生动形象。生活本身可以归结为三个词：ERAT、EST、FUIT。

‘Which means—‘ said d’Artagnan, who began to suspect the truth.
“这意味着——”达达尼昂说道，他开始怀疑真相。

‘Which means that I have just been duped-sixty louis for a horse which by the manner of his gait can do at least five leagues an hour.’
“这意味着我刚刚被骗了——六十路易斯，因为这匹马从它的步态来看每小时至少能跑五里格。”

D’Artagnan and Athos laughed aloud.
达达尼昂和阿托斯放声大笑。

‘My dear d’Artagnan,’ said Aramis, ‘don’t be too angry with me, I beg. Necessity has no law; besides, I am the person punished, as that rascally horsedealer has robbed me of fifty louis, at least. Ah, you fellows are good managers! You ride on our lackey’s horses, and have your own gallant steeds led along carefully by hand, at short stages.’
“我亲爱的达达尼昂，”阿拉米斯说，“我请求你不要对我太生气。必然性没有规律；再说了，受罚的也是我，那个无赖的马贩子至少抢走了我的五十个路易。啊，你们都是好管理者！你骑着我们仆人的马，并在短时间内由专人小心地牵着你自己英勇的战马。

At the same instant a market cart, which some minutes before had appeared upon the Amiens road, pulled up at the inn, and Planchet and Grimaud came out of it with the saddles on their heads. The cart was returning empty to Paris, and the two lackeys had agreed, for their transport, to slake the wagoner’s thirst along the route.
与此同时，几分钟前出现在亚眠路上的一辆市场车在旅馆前停下，普朗谢和格里莫从车里走出来，头上顶着马鞍。马车空着返回巴黎，两个仆人已经同意，他们的运输费用是为了满足沿途马车夫的口渴。

‘What is this?’ said Aramis, on seeing them arrive. ‘Nothing but saddles?’
“这是什么？”阿拉米斯看到他们到来后问道。 “除了马鞍什么都没有？”

‘Now do you understand?’ said Athos.
“现在你明白了吗？”阿托斯说道。

‘My friends, that’s exactly like me! I retained my harness by instinct. HOLA, Bazin! Bring my new saddle and carry it along with those of these gentlemen.’
‘我的朋友们，这和我一模一样！我本能地保留了我的安全带。你好，巴赞！带上我的新马鞍，和这些先生们的马鞍一起带着。”

‘And what have you done with your ecclesiastics?’ asked d’Artagnan.
“那么你对你的神职人员做了什么？”达达尼昂问道。

‘My dear fellow, I invited them to a dinner the next day,’ replied Aramis. ‘They have some capital wine here—please to observe that in passing. I did my best to make them drunk. Then the curate forbade me to quit my uniform, and the Jesuit entreated me to get him made a Musketeer.’
“我亲爱的朋友，我第二天邀请他们去吃晚饭，”阿拉米斯回答道。 ‘他们这里有一些名酒——请顺便注意一下。我尽了最大努力让他们喝醉。然后牧师禁止我脱掉制服，耶稣会士恳求我让他成为一名火枪手。

‘Without a thesis?’ cried d’Artagnan, ‘without a thesis? I demand the suppression of the thesis.’
“没有论文？”达达尼昂喊道，“没有论文？我要求压制这篇论文。

‘Since then,’ continued Aramis, ‘I have lived very agreeably. I have begun a poem in verses of one syllable. That is rather difficult, but the merit in all things consists in the difficulty. The matter is gallant. I will read you the first canto. It has four hundred lines, and lasts a minute.’
“从那时起，”阿拉米斯继续说道，“我过着非常愉快的生活。我开始写一首单音节诗。这是相当困难的，但凡事的优点就在于困难。事情是堂堂正正的。我给你读第一章。它有四百行，持续一分钟。

‘My faith, my dear Aramis,’ said d’Artagnan, who detested verses almost as much as he did Latin, ‘add to the merit of the difficulty that of the brevity, and you are sure that your poem will at least have two merits.’
“我的信仰，我亲爱的阿拉米斯，”达达尼昂说道，他几乎像厌恶拉丁语一样厌恶诗句，“加上简洁的优点，你确信你的诗至少有两个优点。

‘You will see,’ continued Aramis, ‘that it breathes irreproachable passion. And so, my friends, we return to Paris? Bravo! I am ready. We are going to rejoin that good fellow, Porthos. So much the better. You can’t think how I have missed him, the great simpleton. To see him so self-satisfied reconciles me with myself. He would not sell his horse; not for a kingdom! I think I can see him now, mounted upon his superb animal and seated in his handsome saddle. I am sure he will look like the Great Mogul!’
“你会看到，”阿拉米斯继续说道，“它散发着无可指责的激情。那么，我的朋友们，我们回到巴黎吗？太棒了！我已经准备好了。我们要和波托斯那个好人会合了。那就更好了。你想象不到我是多么想念他，这个大傻瓜。看到他如此得意，我就和自己和解了。他不会卖掉他的马；不是为了一个王国！我想我现在可以看到他了，骑在他那匹华丽的马身上，坐在他漂亮的马鞍上。我相信他会看起来像大亨！

They made a halt for an hour to refresh their horses. Aramis discharged his bill, placed Bazin in the cart with his comrades, and they set forward to join Porthos.
他们停下来一个小时，让马恢复精神。阿拉米斯解除了他的账单，将巴赞和他的战友们一起放进了马车，然后他们出发去会合波尔托斯。

They found him up, less pale than when d’Artagnan left him after his first visit, and seated at a table on which, though he was alone, was spread enough for four persons. This dinner consisted of meats nicely dressed, choice wines, and superb fruit.
他们发现他站了起来，他的脸色比达达尼昂第一次来访后离开他时的脸色要浅一些，他坐在一张桌子旁，尽管他独自一人，但桌子上的座位足以容纳四个人。这顿晚餐包括精心烹制的肉类、精选的葡萄酒和美味的水果。

‘Ah, PARDIEU!’ said he, rising, ‘you come in the nick of time, gentlemen. I was just beginning the soup, and you will dine with me.’
“啊，帕迪厄！”他站起来说道，“先生们，你们来得正是时候。”我刚开始喝汤，你跟我一起吃吧。”

‘Oh, oh!’ said d’Artagnan, ‘Mousqueton has not caught these bottles with his lasso. Besides, here is a piquant FRICANDEAU and a fillet of beef.’
“哦，哦！”达达尼昂说，“穆斯克东没有用套索抓住这些瓶子。此外，这里还有一份辛辣的煎饼和一块牛肉。”

‘I am recruiting myself,’ said Porthos, ‘I am recruiting myself. Nothing weakens a man more than these devilish strains. Did you ever suffer from a strain, Athos?’
“我正在招募自己，”波托斯说，“我正在招募自己。”没有什么比这些邪恶的压力更能削弱一个人的力量了。阿托斯，你曾经受过拉伤吗？

‘Never! Though I remember, in our affair of the Rue Ferou, I received a sword wound which at the end of fifteen or eighteen days produced the same effect.’
'绝不！虽然我记得，在我们费鲁街的事件中，我受了刀伤，十五或十八天后产生了同样的效果。

‘But this dinner was not intended for you alone, Porthos?’ said Aramis.
“但是这顿晚餐不是为你一个人准备的，波托斯？”阿拉米斯说。

‘No,’ said Porthos, ‘I expected some gentlemen of the neighborhood, who have just sent me word they could not come. You will take their places and I shall not lose by the exchange. HOLA, Mousqueton, seats, and order double the bottles!’
“不，”波托斯说，“我以为附近有一些绅士，他们刚刚通知我他们不能来。你将取代他们的位置，而我不会因交换而失败。 HOLA，Mousqueton，座位，订购双倍的瓶子！

‘Do you know what we are eating here?’ said Athos, at the end of ten minutes.
“你知道我们在这里吃什么吗？”十分钟后，阿托斯说道。

‘PARDIEU!’ replied d’Artagnan, ‘for my part, I am eating veal garnished with shrimps and vegetables.’
“帕迪厄！”达达尼昂回答道，“就我而言，我吃的是配以虾和蔬菜的小牛肉。”

‘And I some lamb chops,’ said Porthos.
“我还有一些羊排，”波托斯说。

‘And I a plain chicken,’ said Aramis.
“我是一只普通的鸡，”阿拉米斯说。

‘You are all mistaken, gentlemen,’ answered Athos, gravely; ‘you are eating horse.’
“先生们，你们都错了，”阿多斯严肃地回答。 “你在吃马。”

‘Eating what?’ said d’Artagnan.
“吃什么？”达达尼昂问道。

‘Horse!’ said Aramis, with a grimace of disgust.
“马！”阿拉米斯说道，脸上露出厌恶的表情。

Porthos alone made no reply.
波托斯一人没有做出回应。

‘Yes, horse. Are we not eating a horse, Porthos? And perhaps his saddle, therewith.’
‘是的，马。波托斯，我们不是在吃马吗？也许还有他的马鞍。

‘No, gentlemen, I have kept the harness,’ said Porthos.
“不，先生们，我保留了安全带，”波托斯说。

‘My faith,’ said Aramis, ‘we are all alike. One would think we had tipped the wink.’
“我相信，”阿拉米斯说，“我们都是一样的。”人们可能会认为我们已经眨眼了。

‘What could I do?’ said Porthos. ‘This horse made my visitors ashamed of theirs, and I don’t like to humiliate people.’
“我能做什么呢？”波托斯说。 “这匹马让我的访客为他们的马感到羞耻，我不喜欢羞辱别人。”

‘Then your duchess is still at the waters?’ asked d’Artagnan.
“那么您的公爵夫人还在水里吗？”达达尼昂问道。

‘Still,’ replied Porthos. ‘And, my faith, the governor of the province—one of the gentlemen I expected today—seemed to have such a wish for him, that I gave him to him.’
“不过，”波托斯回答道。 “而且，我相信，该省的省长——我今天所期待的一位先生——似乎对他有这样的愿望，所以我把他送给了他。”

‘Gave him?’ cried d’Artagnan.
“给了他？”达达尼昂喊道。

‘My God, yes, GAVE, that is the word,’ said Porthos; ‘for the animal was worth at least a hundred and fifty louis, and the stingy fellow would only give me eighty.’
“我的上帝，是的，给予，就是这个词，”波托斯说。 “因为这头动物至少值一百五十路易，而那个小气的家伙只给了我八十路易。”

‘Without the saddle?’ said Aramis.
“没有马鞍？”阿拉米斯说。

‘Yes, without the saddle.’
“是的，没有马鞍。”

‘You will observe, gentlemen,’ said Athos, ‘that Porthos has made the best bargain of any of us.’
“先生们，你们会发现，”阿托斯说道，“波尔托斯是我们当中最划算的。”

And then commenced a roar of laughter in which they all joined, to the astonishment of poor Porthos; but when he was informed of the cause of their hilarity, he shared it vociferously according to his custom.
然后，大家一起大笑起来，这让可怜的波托斯大吃一惊。但当他得知他们欢闹的原因时，他按照自己的习惯大声分享。

‘There is one comfort, we are all in cash,’ said d’Artagnan.
“有一个安慰，我们都是现金，”达达尼昂说。

‘Well, for my part,’ said Athos, ‘I found Aramis’s Spanish wine so good that I sent on a hamper of sixty bottles of it in the wagon with the lackeys. That has weakened my purse.’
“好吧，就我而言，”阿托斯说，“我发现阿拉米斯的西班牙葡萄酒非常好，所以我和仆人们一起在马车上送了一篮六十瓶葡萄酒。这削弱了我的钱包。

‘And I,’ said Aramis, ‘imagined that I had given almost my last sou to the church of Montdidier and the Jesuits of Amiens, with whom I had made engagements which I ought to have kept. I have ordered Masses for myself, and for you, gentlemen, which will be said, gentlemen, for which I have not the least doubt you will be marvelously benefited.’
“而我，”阿拉米斯说，“我想我几乎已经把最后一个苏捐给了蒙迪迪埃教堂和亚眠耶稣会士，我与他们订下了我应该遵守的约定。我已经为我自己和你们安排了弥撒，先生们，我毫不怀疑你们会因此而受益匪浅。”

‘And I,’ said Porthos, ‘do you think my strain cost me nothing?— without reckoning Mousqueton’s wound, for which I had to have the surgeon twice a day, and who charged me double on account of that foolish Mousqueton having allowed himself a ball in a part which people generally only show to an apothecary; so I advised him to try never to get wounded there any more.’
“而我，”波尔托斯说，“你认为我的拉伤没有给我带来任何损失吗？——没有考虑到穆斯克顿的伤口，为此我每天必须请外科医生两次，而且由于那个愚蠢的穆斯克顿让自己受伤，他向我收取了双倍费用。人们通常只向药剂师展示的部位有一个球；所以我建议他尽量不要再在那里受伤。

‘Ay, ay!’ said Athos, exchanging a smile with d’Artagnan and Aramis, ‘it is very clear you acted nobly with regard to the poor lad; that is like a good master.’
“哎呀，哎呀！”阿托斯一边说，一边与达达尼昂和阿拉米斯交换微笑，“很明显，你对这个可怜的小伙子表现得非常高尚；这就像一位好主人。

‘In short,’ said Porthos, ‘when all my expenses are paid, I shall have, at most, thirty crowns left.’
“总而言之，”波托斯说道，“当我支付完所有费用后，我最多还剩三十克朗。”

‘And I about ten pistoles,’ said Aramis.
“我大约有十皮斯托尔，”阿拉米斯说。

‘Well, then it appears that we are the Croesuses of the society. How much have you left of your hundred pistoles, d’Artagnan?’
“好吧，那么看来我们就是社会上的克洛伊修斯了。达达尼昂，你的一百皮斯托尔还剩下多少？

‘Of my hundred pistoles? Why, in the first place I gave you fifty.’
“我的一百皮枪？”为什么，一开始我给了你五十。

‘You think so?’
“你这么认为吗？”

‘PARDIEU!’
“帕迪厄！”

‘Ah, that is true. I recollect.’
‘啊，确实如此。我记得。

‘Then I paid the host six.’
“然后我付给了主人六块钱。”

‘What a brute of a host! Why did you give him six pistoles?’
‘真是个残暴的主人啊！你为什么给他六皮斯托尔？

‘You told me to give them to him.’
“你告诉我把它们给他的。”

‘It is true; I am too good-natured. In brief, how much remains?’
'是真的;我脾气太好了。简而言之，还剩下多少？

‘Twenty-five pistoles,’ said d’Artagnan.
“二十五皮斯托尔，”达达尼昂说。

‘And I,’ said Athos, taking some small change from his pocket, I—‘
“而我，”阿托斯说，从口袋里掏出一些零钱，我——”

‘You? Nothing!’
'你？没有什么！'

‘My faith! So little that it is not worth reckoning with the general stock.’
‘我的信仰！如此之少，以至于不值得考虑一般库存。

‘Now, then, let us calculate how much we posses in all.’
“那么，现在让我们计算一下我们总共拥有多少。”

‘Porthos?’
“波尔托斯？”

‘Thirty crowns.’
“三十克朗。”

‘Aramis?’
“阿拉米斯？”

‘Ten pistoles.’
“十皮斯托尔。”

‘And you, d’Artagnan?’
“你呢，达达尼昂？”

‘Twenty-five.’
'二十五。'

‘That makes in all?’ said Athos.
“这就是一切？”阿托斯说。

‘Four hundred and seventy-five livres,’ said d’Artagnan, who reckoned like Archimedes.
“四百七十五里弗。”达达尼昂说道，他的计算方式与阿基米德差不多。

‘On our arrival in Paris, we shall still have four hundred, besides the harnesses,’ said Porthos.
“抵达巴黎后，除了安全带外，我们还有四百人，”波托斯说。

‘But our troop horses?’ said Aramis.
“但是我们的军马呢？”阿拉米斯说。

‘Well, of the four horses of our lackeys we will make two for the masters, for which we will draw lots. With the four hundred livres we will make the half of one for one of the unmounted, and then we will give the turnings out of our pockets to d’Artagnan, who has a steady hand, and will go and play in the first gaming house we come to. There!’
“好吧，从我们仆人的四匹马中，我们将为主人做两匹，我们将为此抽签。有了这四百里弗，我们将为其中一个下马的人赚一半，然后我们将从口袋里掏出钱给达达尼昂，他手艺稳定，然后去第一家赌场玩。我们来了。那里！'

‘Let us dine, then,’ said Porthos; ‘it is getting cold.’
“那么我们吃饭吧，”波托斯说。 “天气变冷了。”

The friends, at ease with regard to the future, did honor to the repast, the remains of which were abandoned to Mousqueton, Bazin, Planchet, and Grimaud.
朋友们对未来感到放心，他们很荣幸地享用了这顿饭，剩下的饭菜就留给了穆斯克东、巴赞、普朗谢和格里莫。

On arriving in Paris, d’Artagnan found a letter from M. de Treville, which informed him that, at his request, the king had promised that he should enter the company of the Musketeers.
到达巴黎后，达达尼昂发现了德·特雷维尔先生的一封信，信中告诉他，应他的要求，国王答应让他加入火枪手的队伍。

As this was the height of d’Artagnan’s worldly ambition—apart, be it well understood, from his desire of finding Mme. Bonacieux—he ran, full of joy, to seek his comrades, whom he had left only half an hour before, but whom he found very sad and deeply preoccupied. They were assembled in council at the residence of Athos, which always indicated an event of some gravity. M. de Treville had intimated to them his Majesty’s fixed intention to open the campaign on the first of May, and they must immediately prepare their outfits.
因为这是达达尼昂世俗野心的顶峰——除了他想要找到夫人的愿望之外，这是众所周知的。博纳希厄——他满怀喜悦地跑去寻找他的战友，他半小时前刚刚离开，但他发现他们非常悲伤，全神贯注。他们在阿托斯的官邸召开会议，这总是表明事件有一定的严重性。德特雷维尔先生已经向他们透露了国王陛下定于五月一日开始征战的计划，他们必须立即准备好行装。

The four philosophers looked at one another in a state of bewilderment. M. de Treville never jested in matters relating to discipline.
四大哲学家面面相觑。德特雷维尔先生从不拿有关纪律的事情开玩笑。

‘And what do you reckon your outfit will cost?’ said d’Artagnan.
“你认为你的衣服要花多少钱？”达达尼昂说。

‘Oh, we can scarcely say. We have made our calculations with Spartan economy, and we each require fifteen hundred livres.’
‘哦，我们很难说。我们用斯巴达经济进行了计算，我们每人需要一千五百里弗。

‘Four times fifteen makes sixty—six thousand livres,’ said Athos.
“四乘十五等于六十——六千里弗，”阿多斯说。

‘It seems to me,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘with a thousand livres each— I do not speak as a Spartan, but as a procurator—‘
“在我看来，”达达尼昂说，“每人一千里弗——我不是以斯巴达人的身份说话，而是以检察官的身份说话——”

This word PROCURATOR roused Porthos. ‘Stop,’ said he, ‘I have an idea.’
检察官这个词唤醒了波托斯。 “停下来，”他说，“我有一个主意。”

‘Well, that’s something, for I have not the shadow of one,’ said Athos coolly; ‘but as to d’Artagnan, gentlemen, the idea of belonging to OURS has driven him out of his senses. A thousand livres! For my part, I declare I want two thousand.’
“好吧，那是很了不起的事情，因为我连影子都没有。”阿托斯冷冷地说。 “但至于达达尼昂，先生们，属于我们的想法已经把他逼疯了。一千里弗！就我而言，我声明我想要两千。

‘Four times two makes eight,’ then said Aramis; ‘it is eight thousand that we want to complete our outfits, toward which, it is true, we have already the saddles.’
“四乘二等于八，”阿拉米斯接着说道。 “我们想要完成我们的服装需要八千件，事实上，我们已经准备好了马鞍。”

‘Besides,’ said Athos, waiting till d’Artagnan, who went to thank Monsieur de Treville, had shut the door, ‘besides, there is that beautiful ring which beams from the finger of our friend. What the devil! D’Artagnan is too good a comrade to leave his brothers in embarrassment while he wears the ransom of a king on his finger.’
“此外，”阿托斯说，等达达尼昂去谢德·特雷维尔先生关上门时，“此外，我们朋友的手指上还戴着那枚美丽的戒指。什么鬼啊！达达尼昂是一位非常好的同志，当他手指上戴着国王的赎金时，他不会让他的兄弟们感到尴尬。

29 HUNTING FOR THE EQUIPMENTS
29 寻找装备

The most preoccupied of the four friends was certainly d’Artagnan, although he, in his quality of Guardsman, would be much more easily equipped than Messieurs the Musketeers, who were all of high rank; but our Gascon cadet was, as may have been observed, of a provident and almost avaricious character, and with that (explain the contradiction) so vain as almost to rival Porthos. To this preoccupation of his vanity, d’Artagnan at this moment joined an uneasiness much less selfish. Notwithstanding all his inquiries respecting Mme. Bonacieux, he could obtain no intelligence of her. M. de Treville had spoken of her to the queen. The queen was ignorant where the mercer’s young wife was, but had promised to have her sought for; but this promise was very vague and did not at all reassure d’Artagnan.
四个朋友中最关心的无疑是达达尼昂，尽管他以近卫军的身份，比火枪手先生更容易装备，因为他们都是高级别的人。但我们的加斯科涅学员，正如人们可能观察到的那样，具有深思熟虑且近乎贪婪的性格，因此（解释一下矛盾）如此自负，几乎可以与波托斯匹敌。达达尼昂此刻除了对虚荣心的关注外，还夹杂着一种不那么自私的不安。尽管他询问了有关夫人的所有问题。博纳希厄，他无法获得她的任何情报。德·特雷维尔先生曾向王后谈起过她。女王不知道商人年轻的妻子在哪里，但她答应去找她。但这个承诺非常模糊，根本没有让达达尼昂放心。

Athos did not leave his chamber; he made up his mind not to take a single step to equip himself.
阿多斯没有离开他的房间；他决定不再装备自己一步。

‘We have still fifteen days before us,’ said he to his friends. ‘well, if at the end of a fortnight I have found nothing, or rather if nothing has come to find me, as I, too good a Catholic to kill myself with a pistol bullet, I will seek a good quarrel with four of his Eminence’s Guards or with eight Englishmen, and I will fight until one of them has killed me, which, considering the number, cannot fail to happen. It will then be said of me that I died for the king; so that I shall have performed my duty without the expense of an outfit.’
“我们还有十五天的时间，”他对朋友们说。 “好吧，如果两周后我什么也没找到，或者更确切地说，如果没有什么东西来找我，因为我是一个太好的天主教徒，不会用手枪子弹自杀，我会寻求与他的四个人好好争吵。主教的卫兵或八名英国人，我将战斗，直到他们中的一个杀了我，考虑到人数，这不可能不发生。那时人们就会说我是为国王而死的；这样我就可以履行我的职责而无需支付服装费用。

Porthos continued to walk about with his hands behind him, tossing his head and repeating, ‘I shall follow up on my idea.’
波尔托斯继续背着手走来走去，摇头重复道：“我会继续我的想法。”

Aramis, anxious and negligently dressed, said nothing.
阿拉米斯焦急万分，衣着随意，一言不发。

It may be seen by these disastrous details that desolation reigned in the community.
从这些灾难性的细节可以看出，社区里一片荒凉。

The lackeys on their part, like the coursers of Hippolytus, shared the sadness of their masters. Mousqueton collected a store of crusts; Bazin, who had always been inclined to devotion, never quit the churches; Planchet watched the flight of flies; and Grimaud, whom the general distress could not induce to break the silence imposed by his master, heaved sighs enough to soften the stones.
而他们的走狗，就像希波吕托斯的骏马一样，也分享着他们主人的悲伤。穆斯克顿收集了一批面包皮；巴赞一向虔诚，从未离开过教堂。普朗切特观察苍蝇的飞行；格里莫虽然普遍的痛苦无法促使他打破主人强加的沉默，但他叹了口气，足以软化石头。

The three friends—for, as we have said, Athos had sworn not to stir a foot to equip himself—went out early in the morning, and returned late at night. They wandered about the streets, looking at the pavement as if to see whether the passengers had not left a purse behind them. They might have been supposed to be following tracks, so observant were they wherever they went. When they met they looked desolately at one another, as much as to say, ‘Have you found anything?’
这三个朋友——正如我们已经说过的，阿多斯发誓不再动一动脚去装备自己——清早出去，深夜才回来。他们在街上闲逛，看着人行道，好像是想看看乘客们有没有把钱包落在身后。他们本来应该循迹而行，所以无论走到哪里，他们都保持着敏锐的观察力。当他们见面时，他们眼神凄凉，仿佛在说：“你们发现什么了吗？”

However, as Porthos had first found an idea, and had thought of it earnestly afterward, he was the first to act. He was a man of execution, this worthy Porthos. D’Artagnan perceived him one day walking toward the church of St. Leu, and followed him instinctively. He entered, after having twisted his mustache and elongated his imperial, which always announced on his part the most triumphant resolutions. As d’Artagnan took some precautions to conceal himself, Porthos believed he had not been seen. d’Artagnan entered behind him. Porthos went and leaned against the side of a pillar. D’Artagnan, still unperceived, supported himself against the other side.
不过，由于波托斯先有了想法，又认真思考过，所以他第一个行动了。他是一个有执行力的人，这个值得尊敬的波托斯。有一天，达达尼昂发现他朝圣勒教堂走去，便本能地跟着他。他扭了扭胡子，拉长了帝国帽，然后走进来，帝国军总是宣告着他最胜利的决心。由于达达尼昂采取了一些预防措施来隐藏自己，波托斯相信他没有被发现。达达尼昂在他身后走了进来。波托斯走过去，靠在一根柱子的一边。达达尼昂仍然不为人知，支持自己对抗另一边。

There happened to be a sermon, which made the church very full of people. Porthos took advantage of this circumstance to ogle the women. Thanks to the cares of Mousqueton, the exterior was far from announcing the distress of the interior. His hat was a little napless, his feather was a little faded, his gold lace was a little tarnished, his laces were a trifle frayed; but in the obscurity of the church these things were not seen, and Porthos was still the handsome Porthos.
正好有一次布道，教堂里挤满了人。波尔托斯利用这个机会向妇女们抛媚眼。多亏了穆斯克东的精心照料，外表并没有透露出内部的困境。他的帽子有点没有绒毛，他的羽毛有点褪色，他的金色蕾丝有点失去光泽，他的鞋带有点磨损；他的帽子有点褪色。但在教堂的暗处，这些东西都看不见，波托斯仍然是那个英俊的波托斯。

D’Artagnan observed, on the bench nearest to the pillar against which Porthos leaned, a sort of ripe beauty, rather yellow and rather dry, but erect and haughty under her black hood. The eyes of Porthos were furtively cast upon this lady, and then roved about at large over the nave.
达达尼昂观察到，在离波尔托斯靠着的柱子最近的长凳上，有一种成熟的美人，肤色相当黄，相当干燥，但在黑色兜帽下却挺拔而傲慢。波尔托斯的目光偷偷地落在这位女士身上，然后在中殿上空转了一圈。

On her side the lady, who from time to time blushed, darted with the rapidity of lightning a glance toward the inconstant Porthos; and then immediately the eyes of Porthos wandered anxiously. It was plain that this mode of proceeding piqued the lady in the black hood, for she bit her lips till they bled, scratched the end of her nose, and could not sit still in her seat.
在她这边，这位女士时不时地脸红，以闪电般的速度向反复无常的波尔托斯扫了一眼。波托斯的目光立刻焦急地游移着。显然，这样的做法激怒了黑兜帽女士，她咬得嘴唇流血，抓破了鼻尖，在座位上坐不住了。

Porthos, seeing this, retwisted his mustache, elongated his imperial a second time, and began to make signals to a beautiful lady who was near the choir, and who not only was a beautiful lady, but still further, no doubt, a great lady—for she had behind her a Negro boy who had brought the cushion on which she knelt, and a female servant who held the emblazoned bag in which was placed the book from which she read the Mass.
波托斯见状，重新扭了扭胡子，再次拉长了胡子，开始向唱诗班附近的一位美丽女士打手势，她不仅是一位美丽的女士，而且毫无疑问是一位伟大的女士——因为她身后有一个黑人男孩，他带来了她跪下的垫子，还有一个女仆，她拿着一个纹章袋子，袋子里放着她读弥撒的书。

The lady with the black hood followed through all their wanderings the looks of Porthos, and perceived that they rested upon the lady with the velvet cushion, the little Negro, and the maid-servant.
戴黑兜帽的女士在他们四处游荡时一直注视着波尔托斯的目光，发现他们坐在戴天鹅绒垫子的女士、小黑人和女仆的身上。

During this time Porthos played close. It was almost imperceptible motions of his eyes, fingers placed upon the lips, little assassinating smiles, which really did assassinate the disdained beauty.
在此期间，波尔托斯的表现很接近。他的眼神几乎难以察觉，手指放在嘴唇上，还有一点刺杀性的微笑，这些都确实刺杀了这位被鄙视的美人。

Then she cried, ‘Ahem!’ under cover of the MEA CULPA, striking her breast so vigorously that everybody, even the lady with the red cushion, turned round toward her. Porthos paid no attention. Nevertheless, he understood it all, but was deaf.
然后她在“MEA CULPA”的掩护下喊道“咳咳！”，用力地拍打着自己的胸部，以至于每个人，甚至是那个带着红色坐垫的女士，都转过身来看着她。波托斯没有理睬。尽管如此，他都明白了，只是充耳不闻。

The lady with the red cushion produced a great effect—for she was very handsome—upon the lady with he black hood, who saw in her a rival really to be dreaded; a great effect upon Porthos, who thought her much prettier than the lady with the black hood; a great effect upon d’Artagnan, who recognized in her the lady of Meung, of Calais, and of Dover, whom his persecutor, the man with the scar, had saluted by the name of Milady.
戴红色坐垫的女士对戴黑兜帽的女士产生了巨大的影响——因为她非常英俊——她在她身上看到了一个真正令人畏惧的对手；这对波尔托斯产生了很大的影响，他认为她比那个戴黑兜帽的女士漂亮得多。这对达达尼昂产生了很大的影响，他在她身上认出了来自加莱和多佛的默恩女士，他的迫害者，那个有疤痕的人，曾以米拉迪的名字向她致敬。

D’Artagnan, without losing sight of the lady of the red cushion, continued to watch the proceedings of Porthos, which amused him greatly. He guessed that the lady of the black hood was the procurator’s wife of the Rue aux Ours, which was the more probable from the church of St. Leu being not far from that locality.
达达尼昂没有忽视红坐垫女士，继续注视着波托斯的一举一动，这让他觉得很有趣。他猜测那个戴黑兜帽的女士是我们街检察官的妻子，从离当地不远的圣勒教堂来看，可能性更大。

He guessed, likewise, by induction, that Porthos was taking his revenge for the defeat of Chantilly, when the procurator’s wife had proved so refractory with respect to her purse.
同样，通过归纳，他猜测波尔托斯正在为尚蒂伊的失败进行报复，而检察官的妻子对她的钱包却表现得如此顽固。

Amid all this, d’Artagnan remarked also that not one countenance responded to the gallantries of Porthos. There were only chimeras and illusions; but for real love, for true jealousy, is there any reality except illusions and chimeras?
达达尼昂还指出，在这一切之中，没有人对波托斯的英勇表现有任何反应。只有幻想和幻想；但对于真正的爱，对于真正的嫉妒，除了幻想和幻想之外，还有现实吗？

The sermon over, the procurator’s wife advanced toward the holy font. Porthos went before her, and instead of a finger, dipped his whole hand in. The procurator’s wife smiled, thinking that it was for her Porthos had put himself to this trouble; but she was cruelly and promptly undeceived. When she was only about three steps from him, he turned his head round, fixing his eyes steadfastly upon the lady with the red cushion, who had risen and was approaching, followed by her black boy and her woman.
布道结束后，检察官夫人走向圣池。波托斯走到她面前，不是一根手指，而是整个手伸进去。检察官的妻子笑了，心想波托斯是为了她才这么麻烦的。但她很快就被残酷地欺骗了。当她距离他只有三步远时，他转过头来，目光坚定地盯着那个红坐垫女士，她已经起身走近，后面跟着她的黑人男孩和她的女人。

When the lady of the red cushion came close to Porthos, Porthos drew his dripping hand from the font. The fair worshipper touched the great hand of Porthos with her delicate fingers, smiled, made the sign of the cross, and left the church.
当红坐垫女士走近波托斯时，波托斯从圣水池中抽出了滴着水的手。美丽的崇拜者用她纤细的手指碰触波托斯的大手，微笑着，画了十字，然后离开了教堂。

This was too much for the procurator’s wife; she doubted not there was an intrigue between this lady and Porthos. If she had been a great lady she would have fainted; but as she was only a procurator’s wife, she contented herself saying to the Musketeer with concentrated fury, ‘Eh, Monsieur Porthos, you don’t offer me any holy water?’
这对检察官的妻子来说太过分了。她毫不怀疑这位女士和波尔托斯之间存在阴谋。如果她是一位伟大的女士，她一定会晕倒；但由于她只是一名检察官的妻子，所以她满足于对火枪手说：“呃，波托斯先生，你不给我圣水吗？”

Porthos, at the sound of that voice, started like a man awakened from a sleep of a hundred years.
波托斯一听到这个声音，就像一个从一百年的沉睡中惊醒的人一样惊呆了。

‘Ma-madame!’ cried he; ‘is that you? How is your husband, our dear Monsieur Coquenard? Is he still as stingy as ever? Where can my eyes have been not to have seen you during the two hours of the sermon?’
“妈妈，女士！”他喊道。 '那是你吗？我们亲爱的科克纳尔先生，您的丈夫怎么样？他还像以前一样小气吗？在讲道的两个小时里，我的眼睛怎么没看到你呢？

‘I was within two paces of you, monsieur,’ replied the procurator’s wife; ‘but you did not perceive me because you had no eyes but for the pretty lady to whom you just now gave the holy water.’
“先生，我离您只有两步之遥，”检察官的妻子回答道。 “但你没有看到我，因为你的眼睛里只有你刚才给她喝圣水的那位漂亮女士。”

Porthos pretended to be confused. ‘Ah,’ said he, ‘you have remarked—‘
波托斯假装困惑。 “啊，”他说，“你说过——”

‘I must have been blind not to have seen.’
“我一定是瞎了才没有看到。”

‘Yes,’ said Porthos, ‘that is a duchess of my acquaintance whom I have great trouble to meet on account of the jealousy of her husband, and who sent me word that she should come today to this poor church, buried in this vile quarter, solely for the sake of seeing me.’
“是的，”波托斯说，“那是我认识的一位公爵夫人，由于她丈夫的嫉妒，我费了好大劲才见到她，她还给我发了话，说她今天要来这座可怜的教堂，埋葬在这个肮脏的地方。”四分之一，只是为了见我。

‘Monsieur Porthos,’ said the procurator’s wife, ‘will you have the kindness to offer me your arm for five minutes? I have something to say to you.’
“波尔托斯先生，”检察官的妻子说道，“您能帮我伸出手臂五分钟吗？”我有话要对你说。

‘Certainly, madame,’ said Porthos, winking to himself, as a gambler does who laughs at the dupe he is about to pluck.
“当然，夫人，”波托斯一边眨着眼睛一边说，就像一个赌徒嘲笑他即将上当受骗的人一样。

At that moment d’Artagnan passed in pursuit of Milady; he cast a passing glance at Porthos, and beheld this triumphant look.
就在这时，达达尼昂过去追赶米拉迪。他瞥了波托斯一眼，看到了他胜利的表情。

‘Eh, eh!’ said he, reasoning to himself according to the strangely easy morality of that gallant period, ‘there is one who will be equipped in good time!’
“呃，呃！”他说道，根据那个英勇时代异常轻松的道德观，他自言自语道，“总有一个人会及时装备起来的！”

Porthos, yielding to the pressure of the arm of the procurator’s wife, as a bark yields to the rudder, arrived at the cloister St. Magloire—a little-frequented passage, enclosed with a turnstile at each end. In the daytime nobody was seen there but mendicants devouring their crusts, and children at play.
波尔托斯屈服于检察官妻子手臂的压力，就像船皮屈服于船舵一样，到达了圣马格洛尔修道院——一条很少有人光顾的通道，两端各有一个十字转门。白天，除了乞丐们正在狼吞虎咽地吃着面包皮，还有孩子们在玩耍的时候，那里什么人也没有。

‘Ah, Monsieur Porthos,’ cried the procurator’s wife, when she was assured that no one who was a stranger to the population of the locality could either see or hear her, ‘ah, Monsieur Porthos, you are a great conqueror, as it appears!’
“啊，波尔托斯先生，”检察官的妻子喊道，当她确信没有一个对当地居民来说是陌生人的人可以看到或听到她时，“啊，波尔托斯先生，你是一位伟大的征服者，因为它是一个伟大的征服者。”出现了！

‘I, madame?’ said Porthos, drawing himself up proudly; ‘how so?’
“我，夫人？”波尔托斯自豪地挺直身子说道。 '为何如此？'

‘The signs just now, and the holy water! But that must be a princess, at least—that lady with her Negro boy and her maid!’
‘刚才的征兆，还有圣水！但那至少一定是一位公主——那位女士带着她的黑人男孩和她的女仆！

‘My God! Madame, you are deceived,’ said Porthos; ‘she is simply a duchess.’
'我的上帝！波托斯说：“夫人，您被骗了。” “她只是一位公爵夫人。”

‘And that running footman who waited at the door, and that carriage with a coachman in grand livery who sat waiting on his seat?’
“还有那个在门口等着的跑腿，还有那辆马车，车夫穿着华丽的制服，坐在他的座位上等着呢？”

Porthos had seen neither the footman nor the carriage, but with the eye of a jealous woman, Mme. Coquenard had seen everything.
波尔托斯既没有看到男仆，也没有看到马车，而是用嫉妒的女人的眼睛看到了。科奎纳尔目睹了一切。

Porthos regretted that he had not at once made the lady of the red cushion a princess.
波托斯后悔没有立即将红垫上的女士封为公主。

‘Ah, you are quite the pet of the ladies, Monsieur Porthos!’ resumed the procurator’s wife, with a sigh.
“啊，波托斯先生，你真是女士们的宠儿！”检察官的妻子叹了口气，接着说道。

‘Well,’ responded Porthos, ‘you may imagine, with the physique with which nature has endowed me, I am not in want of good luck.’
“好吧，”波尔托斯回答道，“你可以想象，以大自然赋予我的体格，我并不需要好运。”

‘Good Lord, how quickly men forget!’ cried the procurator’s wife, raising her eyes toward heaven.
“上帝啊，人们忘记得多么快啊！”检察官的妻子抬头望天，大声喊道。

‘Less quickly than the women, it seems to me,’ replied Porthos; ‘for I, madame, I may say I was your victim, when wounded, dying, I was abandoned by the surgeons. I, the offspring of a noble family, who placed reliance upon your friendship—I was near dying of my wounds at first, and of hunger afterward, in a beggarly inn at Chantilly, without you ever deigning once to reply to the burning letters I addressed to you.’
“在我看来，速度比女人慢，”波尔托斯回答道。 “对于我来说，夫人，我可以说我是你的受害者，当我受伤、垂死时，我被外科医生抛弃了。我，一个贵族家庭的后裔，信赖你们的友谊——一开始我差点因伤而死，后来又饿死在尚蒂伊的一家乞丐旅馆里，而你们却从未屈尊回复我那些燃烧着的信件。写给你的。

‘But, Monsieur Porthos,’ murmured the procurator’s wife, who began to feel that, to judge by the conduct of the great ladies of the time, she was wrong.
“但是，波尔托斯先生，”检察官的妻子低声说道，她开始觉得，从当时名流淑女的行为来看，她错了。

‘I, who had sacrificed for you the Baronne de—‘
“我，为你牺牲了男爵夫人——”

‘I know it well.’
“我很清楚。”

‘The Comtesse de—‘
“伯爵夫人——”

‘Monsieur Porthos, be generous!’
“波托斯先生，慷慨一点！”

‘You are right, madame, and I will not finish.’
“你是对的，女士，我不会说完。”

‘But it was my husband who would not hear of lending.’
“但我的丈夫不愿意听说贷款。”

‘Madame Coquenard,’ said Porthos, ‘remember the first letter you wrote me, and which I preserve engraved in my memory.’
“科克纳尔夫人，”波托斯说，“还记得您写给我的第一封信吗？我把它铭刻在我的记忆中。”

The procurator’s wife uttered a groan.
检察官夫人发出一声呻吟。

‘Besides,’ said she, ‘the sum you required me to borrow was rather large.’
“而且，”她说，“你要求我借的金额相当大。”

‘Madame Coquenard, I gave you the preference. I had but to write to the Duchesse—but I won’t repeat her name, for I am incapable of compromising a woman; but this I know, that I had but to write to her and she would have sent me fifteen hundred.’
“科克纳尔夫人，我优先考虑的是您。我只好写信给公爵夫人——但我不会重复她的名字，因为我无法向一个女人妥协；但我知道，我只要写信给她，她就会给我寄一千五百块。

The procurator’s wife shed a tear.
检察官的妻子流下了眼泪。

‘Monsieur Porthos,’ said she, ‘I can assure you that you have severely punished me; and if in the time to come you should find yourself in a similar situation, you have but to apply to me.’
“波尔托斯先生，”她说，“我可以向您保证，您已经严厉地惩罚了我；如果将来你发现自己遇到类似的情况，你只需向我提出申请即可。

‘Fie, madame, fie!’ said Porthos, as if disgusted. ‘Let us not talk about money, if you please; it is humiliating.’
“呸，夫人，呸！”波托斯说道，似乎很厌恶。 “如果你愿意的话，我们不要谈论金钱；这是一种耻辱。

‘Then you no longer love me!’ said the procurator’s wife, slowly and sadly.
“那你就不再爱我了！”检察官的妻子缓慢而悲伤地说。

Porthos maintained a majestic silence.
波托斯保持着庄严的沉默。

‘And that is the only reply you make? Alas, I understand.’
‘这是你唯一的回答吗？唉，我明白了。

‘Think of the offense you have committed toward me, madame! It remains HERE!’ said Porthos, placing his hand on his heart, and pressing it strongly.
“想想你对我犯下的罪行吧，夫人！它还在这里！”波尔托斯说着，把手放在心口上，用力按着。

‘I will repair it, indeed I will, my dear Porthos.’
“我会修复它，真的，我会的，我亲爱的波托斯。”

‘Besides, what did I ask of you?’ resumed Porthos, with a movement of the shoulders full of good fellowship. ‘A loan, nothing more! After all, I am not an unreasonable man. I know you are not rich, Madame Coquenard, and that your husband is obliged to bleed his poor clients to squeeze a few paltry crowns from them. Oh! If you were a duchess, a marchioness, or a countess, it would be quite a different thing; it would be unpardonable.’
“此外，我向你请求了什么？”波尔托斯继续说道，肩膀的动作充满了友好的友谊。 “贷款，仅此而已！”毕竟我不是一个不讲道理的人。我知道你并不富有，科奎纳尔夫人，你的丈夫不得不让他可怜的客户流血，才能从他们身上榨取一些微不足道的克朗。哦！如果你是公爵夫人、侯爵夫人或伯爵夫人，那就完全不同了。这是不可原谅的。

The procurator’s wife was piqued.
检察官的妻子很生气。

‘Please to know, Monsieur Porthos,’ said she, ‘that my strongbox, the strongbox of a procurator’s wife though it may be, is better filled than those of your affected minxes.’
“请知道，波托斯先生，”她说，“我的保险箱，虽然可能是检察官妻子的保险箱，但比你那些受影响的妓女的保险箱装得更满。”

‘The doubles the offense,’ said Porthos, disengaging his arm from that of the procurator’s wife; ‘for if you are rich, Madame Coquenard, then there is no excuse for your refusal.’
“罪责加倍，”波托斯一边说，一边从检察官妻子的手臂上松开。 “科克纳尔夫人，如果您很有钱，那么您就没有理由拒绝。”

‘When I said rich,’ replied the procurator’s wife, who saw that she had gone too far, ‘you must not take the word literally. I am not precisely rich, though I am pretty well off.’
“当我说富有时，”检察官的妻子回答道，她发现自己说得太过分了，“你不能从字面上理解这个词。”虽然我并不富裕，但我的生活相当富裕。”

‘Hold, madame,’ said Porthos, ‘let us say no more upon the subject, I beg of you. You have misunderstood me, all sympathy is extinct between us.’
“等一下，夫人，”波托斯说，“我们不要再谈论这个话题了，我求你了。”你误会了我，我们之间已经没有任何同情心了。”

‘Ingrate that you are!’
“你真是忘恩负义！”

‘Ah! I advise you to complain!’ said Porthos.
'啊！我建议你投诉！”波托斯说。

‘Begone, then, to your beautiful duchess; I will detain you no longer.’
“那么，走吧，去找你美丽的公爵夫人吧；我不会再拘留你了。

‘And she is not to be despised, in my opinion.’
“在我看来，她不应该被鄙视。”

‘Now, Monsieur Porthos, once more, and this is the last! Do you love me still?’
“现在，波尔托斯先生，再一次，这是最后一次！你还爱我吗？

‘Ah, madame,’ said Porthos, in the most melancholy tone he could assume, ‘when we are about to enter upon a campaign—a campaign, in which my presentiments tell me I shall be killed—‘
“啊，夫人，”波托斯用他所能表现出的最忧郁的语气说，“当我们即将参加一场战役时——一场我的预感告诉我我会被杀的战役——”

‘Oh, don’t talk of such things!’ cried the procurator’s wife, bursting into tears.
“噢，别说这种事了！”检察官的妻子哭着喊道。

‘Something whispers me so,’ continued Porthos, becoming more and more melancholy.
“有什么东西在对我低语，”波尔托斯继续说道，他变得越来越忧郁。

‘Rather say that you have a new love.’
“不如说你有了新欢。”

‘Not so; I speak frankly to you. No object affects me; and I even feel here, at the bottom of my heart, something which speaks for you. But in fifteen days, as you know, or as you do not know, this fatal campaign is to open. I shall be fearfully preoccupied with my outfit. Then I must make a journey to see my family, in the lower part of Brittany, to obtain the sum necessary for my departure.’
‘不是这样的；我坦白地跟你说。没有任何物体影响我；我什至在心底感觉到有某种东西可以为你说话。但十五天内，正如你所知，或者你不知道，这场致命的战役即将拉开帷幕。我会全神贯注于我的服装。然后我必须去布列塔尼下部看望我的家人，以获得离开所需的资金。

Porthos observed a last struggle between love and avarice.
波托斯目睹了爱情与贪婪之间的最后斗争。

‘And as,’ continued he, ‘the duchess whom you saw at the church has estates near to those of my family, we mean to make the journey together. Journeys, you know, appear much shorter when we travel two in company.’
“而且，”他继续说道，“你在教堂看到的公爵夫人的地产与我家族的地产很接近，所以我们打算一起上路。你知道，当我们两个人结伴旅行时，旅程会显得更短。

‘Have you no friends in Paris, then, Monsieur Porthos?’ said the procurator’s wife.
“那么，波托斯先生，你在巴黎没有朋友吗？”检察官的妻子问道。

‘I thought I had,’ said Porthos, resuming his melancholy air; ‘but I have been taught my mistake.’
“我以为我已经做到了，”波托斯说道，恢复了他忧郁的神情。 “但我已经被告知我的错误了。”

‘You have some!’ cried the procurator’s wife, in a transport that surprised even herself. ‘Come to our house tomorrow. You are the son of my aunt, consequently my cousin; you come from Noyon, in Picardy; you have several lawsuits and no attorney. Can you recollect all that?’
“你有一些！”检察官的妻子喊道，她的语气连她自己都感到惊讶。 ‘明天到我们家来吧。你是我姨妈的儿子，因此也是我的表弟；你来自皮卡第的努瓦永；您有几起诉讼，但没有律师。你能记得这一切吗？

‘Perfectly, madame.’
“很好，女士。”

‘Come at dinnertime.’
“晚餐时间过来。”

‘Very well.’
'很好。'

‘And be upon your guard before my husband, who is rather shrewd, notwithstanding his seventy-six years.’
“在我丈夫面前要小心，他虽然已经七十六岁了，但还是很精明。”

‘Seventy-six years! PESTE! That’s a fine age!’ replied Porthos.
‘七十六年了！害虫！那真是一个美好的年纪！”波尔托斯回答道。

‘A great age, you mean, Monsieur Porthos. Yes, the poor man may be expected to leave me a widow, any hour,’ continued she, throwing a significant glance at Porthos. ‘Fortunately, by our marriage contract, the survivor takes everything.’
“你的意思是，波托斯先生，一个伟大的时代。是的，那个可怜的男人可能随时都会让我成为寡妇，”她继续说道，意味深长地看了波托斯一眼。 “幸运的是，根据我们的婚约，幸存者将获得一切。”

‘All?’
'全部？'

‘Yes, all.’
“是的，全部。”

‘You are a woman of precaution, I see, my dear Madame Coquenard,’ said Porthos, squeezing the hand of the procurator’s wife tenderly.
“我明白，你是一个谨慎的女人，我亲爱的科奎纳尔夫人，”波托斯温柔地握着检察官妻子的手说道。

‘We are then reconciled, dear Monsieur Porthos?’ said she, simpering.
“那么我们就和好了，亲爱的波尔托斯先生？”她笑着说。

‘For life,’ replied Porthos, in the same manner.
“终生。”波尔托斯以同样的方式回答。

‘Till we meet again, then, dear traitor!’
“那么，我们再见面吧，亲爱的叛徒！”

‘Till we meet again, my forgetful charmer!’
“我们再见面吧，我那健忘的魔术师！”

‘Tomorrow, my angel!’
“明天，我的天使！”

‘Tomorrow, flame of my life!’
“明天，我生命的火焰！”

30 D’ARTAGNAN AND THE ENGLISHMAN
30 达达尼昂和英国人

D’Artagnan followed Milady without being perceived by her. He saw her get into her carriage, and heard her order the coachman to drive to St. Germain.
达达尼昂跟踪着米莱迪，但没有被她发现。他看见她上了马车，听见她命令车夫开往圣日耳曼。

It was useless to try to keep pace on foot with a carriage drawn by two powerful horses. D’Artagnan therefore returned to the Rue Ferou.
试图跟上两匹马拉着的马车是没有用的。达达尼昂因此回到了费鲁街。

In the Rue de Seine he met Planchet, who had stopped before the house of a pastry cook, and was contemplating with ecstasy a cake of the most appetizing appearance.
在塞纳河上，他遇到了普兰谢特，普兰谢特停在一位糕点师的房子前，正欣喜若狂地看着一块看起来最令人垂涎​​的蛋糕。

He ordered him to go and saddle two horses in M. de Treville’s stables—one for himself, d’Artagnan, and one for Planchet—and bring them to Athens’s place. Once for all, Treville had placed his stable at d’Artagnan’s service.
他命令他去德·特雷维尔先生的马厩里备上两匹马——一匹是达达尼昂自己的，一匹是普朗谢特的——然后把它们带到雅典的地方。特雷维尔终于把他的马厩交给了达达尼昂。

Planchet proceeded toward the Rue du Colombier, and d’Artagnan toward the Rue Ferou. Athos was at home, emptying sadly a bottle of the famous Spanish wine he had brought back with him from his journey into Picardy. He made a sign for Grimaud to bring a glass for d’Artagnan, and Grimaud obeyed as usual.
普朗谢朝科隆比尔街走去，达达尼昂则朝费鲁街走去。阿托斯在家，悲伤地倒空了一瓶他从皮卡第之旅带回来的著名西班牙葡萄酒。他示意格里莫给达达尼昂拿一杯酒，格里莫像往常一样服从了。

D’Artagnan related to Athos all that had passed at the church between Porthos and the procurator’s wife, and how their comrade was probably by that time in a fair way to be equipped.
达达尼昂向阿托斯讲述了波托斯和检察官妻子在教堂里发生的一切，以及他们的同志当时可能已经准备好了。

‘As for me,’ replied Athos to this recital, ‘I am quite at my ease; it will not be women that will defray the expense of my outfit.’
“至于我，”阿多斯对这次朗诵会回答道，“我很自在；不会是女人来支付我的服装费用。

‘Handsome, well-bred, noble lord as you are, my dear Athos, neither princesses nor queens would be secure from your amorous solicitations.’
“尽管您是英俊、有教养、高贵的勋爵，我亲爱的阿多斯，但公主和王后都无法免受您多情的诱惑。”

‘How young this d’Artagnan is!’ said Athos, shrugging his shoulders; and he made a sign to Grimaud to bring another bottle.
“这个达达尼昂多么年轻啊！”阿托斯耸耸肩说道。他示意格里莫再拿一瓶。

At that moment Planchet put his head modestly in at the half-open door, and told his master that the horses were ready.
就在这时，普兰切特谦虚地把头探进半开的门，告诉主人马匹已经准备好了。

‘What horses?’ asked Athos.
“什么马？”阿托斯问。

‘Two horses that Monsieur de Treville lends me at my pleasure, and with which I am now going to take a ride to St. Germain.’
“德特雷维尔先生乐意借给我两匹马，我现在要骑着它们去圣日耳曼。”

‘Well, and what are you going to do at St. Germain?’ then demanded Athos.
“那么，你要去圣日耳曼做什么？”阿托斯问道。

Then d’Artagnan described the meeting which he had at the church, and how he had found that lady who, with the seigneur in the black cloak and with the scar near his temple, filled his mind constantly.
然后达达尼昂描述了他在教堂里的那次会面，以及他如何找到那位穿着黑斗篷的领主、太阳穴附近有伤疤的女士，这不断地充斥着他的脑海。

‘That is to say, you are in love with this lady as you were with Madame Bonacieux,’ said Athos, shrugging his shoulders contemptuously, as if he pitied human weakness.
“也就是说，你爱着这位女士，就像爱着博纳瑟夫人一样。”阿托斯轻蔑地耸了耸肩，仿佛在怜悯人类的弱点。

‘I? not at all!’ said d’Artagnan. ‘I am only curious to unravel the mystery to which she is attached. I do not know why, but I imagine that this woman, wholly unknown to me as she is, and wholly unknown to her as I am, has an influence over my life.’
'我？一点也不！”达达尼昂说。 “我只是好奇地想解开她所依附的谜团。我不知道为什么，但我想这个女人对我的生活有影响，虽然我对她完全不了解，对我也完全不了解。

‘Well, perhaps you are right,’ said Athos. ‘I do not know a woman that is worth the trouble of being sought for when she is once lost. Madame Bonacieux is lost; so much the worse for her if she is found.’
“好吧，也许你是对的，”阿托斯说。 “我不知道有哪个女人一旦迷失就值得费尽心思去寻找。博纳瑟夫人失踪了；如果她被发现的话，对她来说就更糟糕了。

‘No, Athos, no, you are mistaken,’ said d’Artagnan; ‘I love my poor Constance more than ever, and if I knew the place in which she is, were it at the end of the world, I would go to free her from the hands of her enemies; but I am ignorant. All my researches have been useless. What is to be said? I must divert my attention!’
“不，阿多斯，不，你错了，”达达尼昂说。 “我比以往任何时候都更爱我可怜的康斯坦丝，如果我知道她在哪里，如果是在世界末日，我会去把她从敌人手中解救出来；但我无知。我所有的研究都毫无用处。该说什么？我必须转移注意力！

‘Amuse yourself with Milady, my dear d’Artagnan; I wish you may with all my heart, if that will amuse you.’
“和米莱迪一起玩吧，我亲爱的达达尼昂；如果你觉得有趣的话，我全心全意地希望你能这样做。

‘Hear me, Athos,’ said d’Artagnan. ‘Instead of shutting yourself up here as if you were under arrest, get on horseback and come and take a ride with me to St. Germain.’
“听我说，阿托斯，”达达尼昂说。 “与其像被捕一样把自己关在这里，不如骑上马来，跟我一起去圣日耳曼。”

‘My dear fellow,’ said Athos, ‘I ride horses when I have any; when I have none, I go afoot.’
“我亲爱的朋友，”阿多斯说，“只要有马，我就会骑马；当我没有的时候，我就步行。

‘Well,’ said d’Artagnan, smiling at the misanthropy of Athos, which from any other person would have offended him, ‘I ride what I can get; I am not so proud as you. So AU REVOIR, dear Athos.’
“好吧，”达达尼昂说，对阿多斯的厌世态度微笑着说，换做任何人都会冒犯他，“我骑我能得到的东西；我骑的是我能骑到的东西。”我不像你那么骄傲。所以，再见吧，亲爱的阿托斯。

‘AU REVOIR,’ said the Musketeer, making a sign to Grimaud to uncork the bottle he had just brought.
“再见。”火枪手一边说，一边示意格里莫打开他刚带来的瓶子。

D’Artagnan and Planchet mounted, and took the road to St. Germain.
达达尼昂和普朗谢上马，走上前往圣日耳曼的路。

All along the road, what Athos had said respecting Mme. Bonacieux recurred to the mind of the young man. Although d’Artagnan was not of a very sentimental character, the mercer’s pretty wife had made a real impression upon his heart. As he said, he was ready to go to the end of the world to seek her; but the world, being round, has many ends, so that he did not know which way to turn. Meantime, he was going to try to find out Milady. Milady had spoken to the man in the black cloak; therefore she knew him. Now, in the opinion of d’Artagnan, it was certainly the man in the black cloak who had carried off Mme. Bonacieux the second time, as he had carried her off the first. d’Artagnan then only half-lied, which is lying but little, when he said that by going in search of Milady he at the same time went in search of Constance.
一路上，阿多斯对夫人说过的话。博纳希厄再次出现在年轻人的脑海中。虽然达达尼昂的性格并不多愁善感，但布商的漂亮妻子却给他留下了深刻的印象。正如他所说，他准备去天涯海角寻找她；但世界是圆的，有很多尽头，所以他不知道该转向哪条路。与此同时，他也要去寻找米莱迪。米莱迪已经和黑斗篷的男人说过话了。因此她认识他。现在，在达达尼昂看来，肯定是那个穿黑斗篷的人带走了夫人。博纳西厄是第二次，因为他第一次把她抱走了。当达达尼昂说他去寻找米拉迪的同时，他也去寻找康斯坦丝时，他只是半撒了谎，这只是一点点谎言。

Thinking of all this, and from time to time giving a touch of the spur to his horse, d’Artagnan completed his short journey, and arrived at St. Germain. He had just passed by the pavilion in which ten years later Louis XIV was born. He rode up a very quiet street, looking to the right and the left to see if he could catch any vestige of his beautiful Englishwoman, when from the ground floor of a pretty house, which, according to the fashion of the time, had no window toward the street, he saw a face peep out with which he thought he was acquainted. This person walked along the terrace, which was ornamented with flowers. Planchet recognized him first.
想到这一切，达达尼昂时不时地用马刺踢一下马刺，完成了他的短暂旅程，到达了圣日耳曼。他刚刚路过十年后路易十四出生的亭子。他沿着一条非常安静的街道骑行，左顾右盼，看看是否能捕捉到他美丽的英国女人的踪迹，当时他站在一栋漂亮房子的底层，按照当时的时尚，这座房子没有任何东西。他从临街的窗户里看到一张他以为很熟悉的脸。这个人沿着鲜花装饰的露台走着。普兰切特首先认出了他。

‘Eh, monsieur!’ said he, addressing d’Artagnan, ‘don’t you remember that face which is blinking yonder?’
“呃，先生！”他对达达尼昂说道，“您不记得那边那张眨着眼睛的脸吗？”

‘No,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘and yet I am certain it is not the first time I have seen that visage.’
“不，”达达尼昂说，“但我确信这不是我第一次看到那张脸。”

‘PARBLEU, I believe it is not,’ said Planchet. ‘Why, it is poor Lubin, the lackey of the Comte de Wardes—he whom you took such good care of a month ago at Calais, on the road to the governor’s country house!’
“PARBLEU，我相信不是，”普兰切特说。 “哎呀，那是可怜的卢宾，瓦尔德伯爵的走狗——一个月前在加来，在去总督乡间别墅的路上，你对他照顾得很好！”

‘So it is!’ said d’Artagnan; ‘I know him now. Do you think he would recollect you?’
“原来如此！”达达尼昂说道。 ‘我现在认识他了。你认为他会记得你吗？

‘My faith, monsieur, he was in such trouble that I doubt if he can have retained a very clear recollection of me.’
“我相信，先生，他遇到了如此大的麻烦，我怀疑他是否还能对我有一个非常清晰的记忆。”

‘Well, go and talk with the boy,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘and make out if you can from his conversation whether his master is dead.’
“好吧，去和那个男孩谈谈，”达达尼昂说，“你能否从他的谈话中判断出他的主人是否已经死了。”

Planchet dismounted and went straight up to Lubin, who did not at all remember him, and the two lackeys began to chat with the best understanding possible; while d’Artagnan turned the two horses into a lane, went round the house, and came back to watch the conference from behind a hedge of filberts.
普朗谢下了马，径直走向卢宾，卢宾根本不记得他了，两个走狗开始以最默契的方式交谈起来。达达尼昂则把两匹马赶到一条小路上，绕着房子转了一圈，然后从榛子树篱后面回来观看会议。

At the end of an instant’s observation he heard the noise of a vehicle, and saw Milady’s carriage stop opposite to him. He could not be mistaken; Milady was in it. D’Artagnan leaned upon the neck of his horse, in order that he might see without being seen.
转眼间，他听到了汽车的声音，看到米莱迪的马车停在了他的对面。他不会弄错的。米莱迪也在其中。达达尼昂靠在马脖子上，这样他就可以看到而不被人看见。

Milady put her charming blond head out at the window, and gave her orders to her maid.
米莱迪把迷人的金发头伸出窗外，对女仆下达了命令。

The latter—a pretty girl of about twenty or twenty-two years, active and lively, the true SOUBRETTE of a great lady—jumped from the step upon which, according to the custom of the time, she was seated, and took her way toward the terrace upon which d’Artagnan had perceived Lubin.
后者——一个大约二十岁或二十二岁的漂亮女孩，活泼好动，真正的名媛淑女——按照当时的习俗，从她坐的台阶上跳下来，走了过去。朝达达尼昂认出卢宾的露台走去。

D’Artagnan followed the soubrette with his eyes, and saw her go toward the terrace; but it happened that someone in the house called Lubin, so that Planchet remained alone, looking in all directions for the road where d’Artagnan had disappeared.
达达尼昂的目光追随着红女郎，看见她朝露台走去。但恰巧屋里有人打电话给卢宾，普朗谢独自一人，四处张望，寻找达达尼昂失踪的那条路。

The maid approached Planchet, whom she took for Lubin, and holding out a little billet to him said, ‘For your master.’
女仆走近普朗谢，以为他是鲁宾，递给他一小块坯料，说道：“给你的主人的。”

‘For my master?’ replied Planchet, astonished.
“为了我的主人？”普朗歇惊讶地回答。

‘Yes, and important. Take it quickly.’
‘是的，而且很重要。快点拿走。

Thereupon she ran toward the carriage, which had turned round toward the way it came, jumped upon the step, and the carriage drove off.
于是她跑向那辆调转方向的马车，跳上台阶，马车就开走了。

Planchet turned and returned the billet. Then, accustomed to passive obedience, he jumped down from the terrace, ran toward the lane, and at the end of twenty paces met d’Artagnan, who, having seen all, was coming to him.
普朗切特转身把坯料放回原处。然后，习惯了被动服从的他从露台上跳下来，朝小巷跑去，在二十步的尽头遇到了达达尼昂，达达尼昂看到了一切，正向他走来。

‘For you, monsieur,’ said Planchet, presenting the billet to the young man.
“给你的，先生。”普朗切特一边说，一边把坯料递给年轻人。

‘For me?’ said d’Artagnan; ‘are you sure of that?’
“给我？”达达尼昂说。 “你确定吗？”

‘PARDIEU, monsieur, I can’t be more sure. The SOUBRETTE said, ‘For your master.’ I have no other master but you; so— a pretty little lass, my faith, is that SOUBRETTE!’
“帕迪厄，先生，我非常确定。苏布雷特说：“为了你的主人。”除了你，我没有别的主人；所以——我相信，那个漂亮的小姑娘就是苏布雷特！”

D’Artagnan opened the letter, and read these words:
达达尼昂打开信，读到这样的话：

‘A person who takes more interest in you than she is willing to confess wishes to know on what day it will suit you to walk in the forest? Tomorrow, at the Hotel Field of the Cloth of Gold, a lackey in black and red will wait for your reply.’
“一个对你比她愿意承认的更感兴趣的人想知道你哪一天适合在森林里散步？明天，在金布饭店场，会有黑衣红衣的跟班等待你的答复。”

‘Oh!’ said d’Artagnan, ‘this is rather warm; it appears that Milady and I are anxious about the health of the same person. Well, Planchet, how is the good Monsieur de Wardes? He is not dead, then?’
“哦！”达达尼昂说，“这里相当温暖；看来我和米莱迪都在担心同一个人的健康状况。嗯，普朗谢特，德瓦尔德先生好吗？那么他还没有死？

‘No, monsieur, he is as well as a man can be with four sword wounds in his body; for you, without question, inflicted four upon the dear gentleman, and he is still very weak, having lost almost all his blood. As I said, monsieur, Lubin did not know me, and told me our adventure from one end to the other.’
“不，先生，他身体上有四处剑伤，但他已经是一个最好的人了。毫无疑问，你对这位亲爱的先生造成了四次伤害，而他仍然很虚弱，几乎失去了所有的血。正如我所说，先生，卢宾不认识我，他把我们的冒险经历从头到尾告诉了我。

‘Well done, Planchet! you are the king of lackeys. Now jump onto your horse, and let us overtake the carriage.’
“干得好，普朗切特！你是走狗之王。现在跳上你的马，让我们追上马车。

This did not take long. At the end of five minutes they perceived the carriage drawn up by the roadside; a cavalier, richly dressed, was close to the door.
这并没有花很长时间。五分钟后，他们看到马车停在路边。一名衣着华丽的骑士站在门口附近。

The conversation between Milady and the cavalier was so animated that d’Artagnan stopped on the other side of the carriage without anyone but the pretty SOUBRETTE perceiving his presence.
米莱迪和骑士之间的谈话如此热烈，以至于达达尼昂在马车的另一边停了下来，除了漂亮的苏布雷特之外，没有任何人注意到他的存在。

The conversation took place in English—a language which d’Artagnan could not understand; but by the accent the young man plainly saw that the beautiful Englishwoman was in a great rage. She terminated it by an action which left no doubt as to the nature of this conversation; this was a blow with her fan, applied with such force that the little feminine weapon flew into a thousand pieces.
谈话是用英语进行的——达达尼昂无法理解这种语言。但从口音中，年轻人清楚地看出这位美丽的英国女人正在勃然大怒。她用一个动作结束了谈话，这一动作使这次谈话的性质毫无疑问。这是她用扇子一击，用力之大，以至于那件小小的女性武器被炸成了一千块。

The cavalier laughed aloud, which appeared to exasperate Milady still more.
骑士大声笑起来，这似乎更激怒了米莱迪。

D’Artagnan thought this was the moment to interfere. He approached the other door, and taking off his hat respectfully, said, ‘Madame, will you permit me to offer you my services? It appears to me that this cavalier has made you very angry. Speak one word, madame, and I take upon myself to punish him for his want of courtesy.’
达达尼昂认为现在是干预的时候了。他走到另一扇门前，恭敬地摘下帽子，说道：“女士，您能允许我为您服务吗？”在我看来，这个骑士让你很生气。夫人，请说一句话，我会亲自惩罚他，因为他缺乏礼貌。

At the first word Milady turned, looking at the young man with astonishment; and when he had finished, she said in very good French, ‘Monsieur, I should with great confidence place myself under your protection if the person with whom I quarrel were not my brother.’
听到第一句话，米莱迪转过身来，惊讶地看着年轻人。当他说完后，她用非常流利的法语说道：“先生，如果与我争吵的人不是我的兄弟，我会非常有信心地接受您的保护。”

‘Ah, excuse me, then,’ said d’Artagnan. ‘You must be aware that I was ignorant of that, madame.’
“啊，那么，请原谅，”达达尼昂说。 “您一定知道我对此一无所知，女士。”

‘What is that stupid fellow troubling himself about?’ cried the cavalier whom Milady had designated as her brother, stooping down to the height of the coach window. ‘Why does not he go about his business?’
“那个愚蠢的家伙在烦恼什么？”那个被米莱迪指定为她兄弟的骑士大声喊道，他弯下腰来到车窗的高度。 “他为什么不去做他的事呢？”

‘Stupid fellow yourself!’ said d’Artagnan, stooping in his turn on the neck of his horse, and answering on his side through the carriage window. ‘I do not go on because it pleases me to stop here.’
“你自己真是个愚蠢的家伙！”达达尼昂说，他弯下身子骑在马脖子上，从马车窗外回答道。 “我不再继续下去，因为我很高兴在这里停下来。”

The cavalier addressed some words in English to his sister.
骑士用英语对他妹妹说了几句话。

‘I speak to you in French,’ said d’Artagnan; ‘be kind enough, then, to reply to me in the same language. You are Madame’s brother, I learn—be it so; but fortunately you are not mine.’
“我用法语跟你说话，”达达尼昂说。 ‘那么，请用同样的语言回复我。据我所知，你是夫人的兄弟——不管怎样；但幸运的是你不是我的。

It might be thought that Milady, timid as women are in general, would have interposed in this commencement of mutual provocations in order to prevent the quarrel from going too far; but on the contrary, she threw herself back in her carriage, and called out coolly to the coachman, ‘Go on—home!’
人们可能会认为，像一般女人一样胆怯的米莱迪会介入这种相互挑衅的行为，以防止争吵闹得太过火。但她却相反，一头扎进马车里，冷冷地对车夫喊道：“走吧——回家吧！”

The pretty SOUBRETTE cast an anxious glance at d’Artagnan, whose good looks seemed to have made an impression on her.
漂亮的苏布雷特焦急地看了达达尼昂一眼，达达尼昂的英俊容貌似乎给她留下了深刻的印象。

The carriage went on, and left the two men facing each other; no material obstacle separated them.
马车继续前行，留下两人面对面。没有任何物质障碍将他们分开。

The cavalier made a movement as if to follow the carriage; but d’Artagnan, whose anger, already excited, was much increased by recognizing in him the Englishman of Amiens who had won his horse and had been very near winning his diamond of Athos, caught at his bridle and stopped him.
骑士做出了一个动作，仿佛是在追随马车。达达尼昂已经很激动了，他认出他是亚眠的英国人，他赢得了他的马，而且差一点就赢得了他的阿托斯钻石，达达尼昂的愤怒更加强烈，他抓住了他的缰绳，阻止了他。

‘Well, monsieur,’ said he, ‘you appear to be more stupid than I am, for you forget there is a little quarrel to arrange between us two.’
“好吧，先生，”他说，“你看起来比我更愚蠢，因为你忘记了我们两个之间需要安排一场小争吵。”

‘Ah,’ said the Englishman, ‘is it you, my master? It seems you must always be playing some game or other.’
“啊，”英国人说，“是你吗，我的主人？看来你一定一直在玩某种游戏。

‘Yes; and that reminds me that I have a revenge to take. We will see, my dear monsieur, if you can handle a sword as skillfully as you can a dice box.’
'是的;这提醒我我要报仇。我们会看到，我亲爱的先生，你是否能像操纵骰子一样熟练地操纵一把剑。

‘You see plainly that I have no sword,’ said the Englishman. ‘Do you wish to play the braggart with an unarmed man?’
“你清楚地看到我没有剑，”英国人说。 “你想和一个手无寸铁的人吹牛吗？”

‘I hope you have a sword at home; but at all events, I have two, and if you like, I will throw with you for one of them.’
‘我希望你家里有把剑；但无论如何，我有两个，如果你愿意，我会和你一起去拿其中一个。

‘Needless,’ said the Englishman; ‘I am well furnished with such playthings.’
“没必要，”英国人说。 “我有这样的玩具。”

‘Very well, my worthy gentleman,’ replied d’Artagnan, ‘pick out the longest, and come and show it to me this evening.’
“很好，我可敬的先生，”达达尼昂答道，“挑出最长的，今晚拿给我看。”

‘Where, if you please?’
“请问在哪里？”

‘Behind the Luxembourg; that’s a charming spot for such amusements as the one I propose to you.’
“在卢森堡后面；这是一个迷人的娱乐场所，就像我向您推荐的那样。”

‘That will do; I will be there.’
‘这样就可以了；我会在那里。'

‘Your hour?’
“你的时间？”

‘Six o’clock.’
'六点钟。'

‘A PROPOS, you have probably one or two friends?’
“一个提案，你可能有一两个朋友吗？”

‘I have three, who would be honored by joining in the sport with me.’
“我有三个人，如果能和我一起加入这项运动，他们会感到很荣幸。”

‘Three? Marvelous! That falls out oddly! Three is just my number!’
'三？奇妙！那结果很奇怪！三只是我的数字！

‘Now, then, who are you?’ asked the Englishman.
“那么，你是谁？”英国人问道。

‘I am Monsieur d’Artagnan, a Gascon gentleman, serving in the king’s Musketeers. And you?’
“我是达达尼昂先生，一位加斯科涅绅士，在国王的火枪队服役。你呢？'

‘I am Lord de Winter, Baron Sheffield.’
“我是德温特勋爵，谢菲尔德男爵。”

‘Well, then, I am your servant, Monsieur Baron,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘though you have names rather difficult to recollect.’ And touching his horse with the spur, he cantered back to Paris. As he was accustomed to do in all cases of any consequence, d’Artagnan went straight to the residence of Athos.
“好吧，那么，我是您的仆人，男爵先生，”达达尼昂说道，“尽管您的名字很难记住。”说完，他用马刺碰了一下马，小跑着回到了巴黎。正如他在任何情况下习惯做的那样，达达尼昂径直前往阿托斯的住所。

He found Athos reclining upon a large sofa, where he was waiting, as he said, for his outfit to come and find him. He related to Athos all that had passed, except the letter to M. de Wardes.
他发现阿托斯斜倚在一张大沙发上，正如他所说，他正在那里等待他的装备来找他。他向阿多斯讲述了所发生的一切，除了给德瓦尔德斯先生的信。

Athos was delighted to find he was going to fight an Englishman. We might say that was his dream.
阿托斯很高兴地发现他要和一个英国人战斗。可以说，这是他的梦想。

They immediately sent their lackeys for Porthos and Aramis, and on their arrival made them acquainted with the situation.
他们立即派走狗去见波尔托斯和阿拉米斯，并在他们到来后向他们了解情况。

Porthos drew his sword from the scabbard, and made passes at the wall, springing back from time to time, and making contortions like a dancer.
波尔托斯从剑鞘中拔出剑，在墙上划过，时不时弹回来，像舞者一样扭曲。

Aramis, who was constantly at work at his poem, shut himself up in Athos’s closet, and begged not to be disturbed before the moment of drawing swords.
阿拉米斯一直在写诗，他把自己关在阿多斯的壁橱里，并请求在拔剑之前不要被打扰。

Athos, by signs, desired Grimaud to bring another bottle of wine.
从迹象来看，阿托斯希望格里莫再带一瓶酒。

D’Artagnan employed himself in arranging a little plan, of which we shall hereafter see the execution, and which promised him some agreeable adventure, as might be seen by the smiles which from time to time passed over his countenance, whose thoughtfulness they animated.
达达尼昂忙于制定一个小计划，我们将在以后看到该计划的执行，这给他带来了一些愉快的冒险，这一点可以从他脸上不时掠过的微笑中看出，这激发了他的深思熟虑。

31 ENGLISH AND FRENCH
31 英语和法语

The hour having come, they went with their four lackeys to a spot behind the Luxembourg given up to the feeding of goats. Athos threw a piece of money to the goatkeeper to withdraw. The lackeys were ordered to act as sentinels.
时间到了，他们带着四个仆人来到卢森堡后面一个专门喂山羊的地方。阿多斯扔给牧羊人一块钱让他取走。走狗奉命充当哨兵。

A silent party soon drew near to the same enclosure, entered, and joined the Musketeers. Then, according to foreign custom, the presentations took place.
一支沉默的队伍很快就接近了同一个围场，进入并加入了火枪手的行列。然后，按照外国惯例，进行了演讲。

The Englishmen were all men of rank; consequently the odd names of their adversaries were for them not only a matter of surprise, but of annoyance.
英国人都是有地位的人。因此，他们的对手的奇怪名字不仅让他们感到惊讶，而且让他们烦恼。

‘But after all,’ said Lord de Winter, when the three friends had been named, ‘we do not know who you are. We cannot fight with such names; they are names of shepherds.’
“但毕竟，”当三位朋友的名字被点名后，德温特勋爵说道，“我们不知道你们是谁。我们不能用这样的名字去战斗；它们是牧羊人的名字。

‘Therefore your lordship may suppose they are only assumed names,’ said Athos.
“因此，阁下可能会认为它们只是化名，”阿多斯说道。

‘Which only gives us a greater desire to know the real ones,’ replied the Englishman.
“这只会让我们更加渴望了解真实的东西，”英国人回答道。

‘You played very willingly with us without knowing our names,’ said Athos, ‘by the same token that you won our horses.’
“你很乐意和我们一起玩，却不知道我们的名字，”阿托斯说，“同样的道理，你赢得了我们的马。”

‘That is true, but we then only risked our pistoles; this time we risk our blood. One plays with anybody; but one fights only with equals.’
“确实如此，但我们只是拿我们的手枪冒险；这次我们冒着鲜血的危险。一个人和任何人一起玩；但只有与平等的人才能战斗。

‘And that is but just,’ said Athos, and he took aside the one of the four Englishmen with whom he was to fight, and communicated his name in a low voice.
“那是公正的，”阿多斯说，他把要与之战斗的四个英国人中的一个拉到一边，低声报出他的名字。

Porthos and Aramis did the same.
波托斯和阿拉米斯也做了同样的事情。

‘Does that satisfy you?’ said Athos to his adversary. ‘Do you find me of sufficient rank to do me the honor of crossing swords with me?’
“这让你满意吗？”阿托斯对他的对手说。 “你认为我的等级足以让我有幸与我交锋吗？”

‘Yes, monsieur,’ said the Englishman, bowing.
“是的，先生，”英国人鞠躬说道。

‘Well! now shall I tell you something?’ added Athos, coolly.
'出色地！现在我要告诉你一件事吗？”阿托斯冷静地补充道。

‘What?’ replied the Englishman.
“什么？”英国人回答道。

‘Why, that is that you would have acted much more wisely if you had not required me to make myself known.’
“哎呀，如果你不要求我公开自己的身份，你会表现得更加明智。”

‘Why so?’
'为什么这样？'

‘Because I am believed to be dead, and have reasons for wishing nobody to know I am living; so that I shall be obliged to kill you to prevent my secret from roaming over the fields.’
“因为人们相信我已经死了，并且有理由希望没有人知道我还活着；这样我就不得不杀了你，以防止我的秘密在田野里传播。

The Englishman looked at Athos, believing that he jested, but Athos did not jest the least in the world.
英国人看着阿多斯，相信他在开玩笑，但阿多斯一点也没有开玩笑。

‘Gentlemen,’ said Athos, addressing at the same time his companions and their adversaries, ‘are we ready?’
“先生们，”阿托斯同时对他的同伴和对手说道，“我们准备好了吗？”

‘Yes!’ answered the Englishmen and the Frenchmen, as with one voice.
“是的！”英国人和法国人异口同声地回答道。

‘On guard, then!’ cried Athos.
“那么，保持警惕！”阿托斯喊道。

Immediately eight swords glittered in the rays of the setting sun, and the combat began with an animosity very natural between men twice enemies.
八把剑立刻在夕阳的光芒中闪闪发光，战斗在两个敌人之间非常自然的敌意中开始。

Athos fenced with as much calmness and method as if he had been practicing in a fencing school.
阿托斯的击剑冷静而有条理，就像在击剑学校练习一样。

Porthos, abated, no doubt, of his too-great confidence by his adventure of Chantilly, played with skill and prudence. Aramis, who had the third canto of his poem to finish, behaved like a man in haste.
毫无疑问，波尔托斯在尚蒂伊的冒险经历中削弱了他过于自信的态度，他的演奏技巧娴熟而谨慎。阿拉米斯的诗的第三章还没有完成，他的表现就像一个匆忙的人。

Athos killed his adversary first. He hit him but once, but as he had foretold, that hit was a mortal one; the sword pierced his heart.
阿托斯首先杀死了他的对手。他只打了他一次，但正如他所预言的那样，那一击是致命的；剑刺穿了他的心脏。

Second, Porthos stretched his upon the grass with a wound through his thigh, As the Englishman, without making any further resistance, then surrendered his sword, Porthos took him up in his arms and bore him to his carriage.
其次，波尔托斯把他的大腿上的伤口伸到了草地上，当英国人没有做出任何进一步的抵抗，然后交出了他的剑时，波尔托斯把他抱在怀里，把他带到了马车上。

Aramis pushed his so vigorously that after going back fifty paces, the man ended by fairly taking to his heels, and disappeared amid the hooting of the lackeys.
阿拉米斯用力地推了他一下，以至于他向后退了五十步后，终于转身就走，在走狗的叫喊声中消失了。

As to d’Artagnan, he fought purely and simply on the defensive; and when he saw his adversary pretty well fatigued, with a vigorous side thrust sent his sword flying. The baron, finding himself disarmed, took two or three steps back, but in this movement his foot slipped and he fell backward.
至于达达尼昂，他的战斗纯粹是防御性的。当他看到对手已经疲惫不堪时，猛力侧刺，剑飞了出去。男爵发现自己被解除了武装，连忙后退了两三步，却脚下一滑，向后摔了下去。

D’Artagnan was over him at a bound, and said to the Englishman, pointing his sword to his throat, ‘I could kill you, my Lord, you are completely in my hands; but I spare your life for the sake of your sister.’
达达尼昂一跃越过他，用剑指着他的喉咙，对英国人说：“我可以杀了你，陛下，你完全在我手里；但为了你妹妹，我饶你一命。”

D’Artagnan was at the height of joy; he had realized the plan he had imagined beforehand, whose picturing had produced the smiles we noted upon his face.
达达尼昂欣喜若狂。他已经实现了他之前设想的计划，我们在他的脸上看到了他的笑容。

The Englishman, delighted at having to do with a gentleman of such a kind disposition, pressed d’Artagnan in his arms, and paid a thousand compliments to the three Musketeers, and as Porthos’s adversary was already installed in the carriage, and as Aramis’s had taken to his heels, they had nothing to think about but the dead.
英国人很高兴能与一位如此善良的绅士打交道，他把达达尼昂搂在怀里，向三个火枪手致以千百个致意，因为波托斯的对手已经坐在马车里了，而阿拉米斯的对手也已经坐在了马车上。追随他之后，他们除了死者之外别无他法。

As Porthos and Aramis were undressing him, in the hope of finding his wound not mortal, a large purse dropped from his clothes. D’Artagnan picked it up and offered it to Lord de Winter.
当波尔托斯和阿拉米斯为他脱衣服时，希望能发现他的伤口不是致命的，一个大钱包从他的衣服上掉了下来。达达尼昂捡起它并将其献给温特勋爵。

‘What the devil would you have me do with that?’ said the Englishman.
“你到底要我用这个做什么？”英国人说道。

‘You can restore it to his family,’ said d’Artagnan.
“你可以把它还给他的家人，”达达尼昂说。

‘His family will care much about such a trifle as that! His family will inherit fifteen thousand louis a year from him. Keep the purse for your lackeys.’
‘他的家人会很关心这种小事！他的家人每年将从他那里继承一万五千路易。把钱包留给你的走狗吧。

D’Artagnan put the purse into his pocket.
达达尼昂把钱包放进口袋里。

‘And now, my young friend, for you will permit me, I hope, to give you that name,’ said Lord de Winter, ‘on this very evening, if agreeable to you, I will present you to my sister, Milady Clarik, for I am desirous that she should take you into her good graces; and as she is not in bad odor at court, she may perhaps on some future day speak a word that will not prove useless to you.’
“现在，我年轻的朋友，我希望你能允许我给你起这个名字，”德温特勋爵说道，“就在今天晚上，如果你同意的话，我会把你介绍给我的妹妹米拉迪·克拉里克。” ，因为我希望她能对你产生好感；因为她在宫廷里的名声并不坏，也许有一天她会说一些对你来说并非毫无用处的话。

D’Artagnan blushed with pleasure, and bowed a sign of assent.
达达尼昂高兴得满脸通红，鞠躬表示同意。

At this time Athos came up to d’Artagnan.
这时，阿托斯来到达达尼昂面前。

‘What do you mean to do with that purse?’ whispered he.
“你打算用那个钱包做什么？”他低声问道。

‘Why, I meant to pass it over to you, my dear Athos.’
“哎呀，我本来打算把它交给你的，我亲爱的阿托斯。”

‘Me! why to me?’
'我！为什么对我来说？

‘Why, you killed him! They are the spoils of victory.’
‘为什么，你杀了他！他们是胜利的战利品。

‘I, the heir of an enemy!’ said Athos; ‘for whom, then, do you take me?’
“我，敌人的继承人！”阿托斯说道。 “那么，你认为我是为了谁呢？”

‘It is the custom in war,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘why should it not be the custom in a duel?’
“这是战争中的惯例，”达达尼昂说，“为什么决斗中就不能这样呢？”

‘Even on the field of battle, I have never done that.’
“即使是在战场上，我也从来没有这样做过。”

Porthos shrugged his shoulders; Aramis by a movement of his lips endorsed Athos.
波尔托斯耸了耸肩。阿拉米斯动了动嘴唇，表示支持阿多斯。

‘Then,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘let us give the money to the lackeys, as Lord de Winter desired us to do.’
“那么，”达达尼昂说，“让我们把钱交给走狗吧，就像德温特勋爵希望我们做的那样。”

‘Yes,’ said Athos; ‘let us give the money to the lackeys—not to our lackeys, but to the lackeys of the Englishmen.’
“是的，”阿托斯说。 “让我们把钱交给走狗——不是我们的走狗，而是英国人的走狗。”

Athos took the purse, and threw it into the hand of the coachman. ‘For you and your comrades.’
阿托斯接过钱包，扔到车夫手里。 “为了你和你的战友。”

This greatness of spirit in a man who was quite destitute struck even Porthos; and this French generosity, repeated by Lord de Winter and his friend, was highly applauded, except by MM. Grimaud, Bazin, Mousqueton and Planchet.
一个穷困潦倒的人所表现出的这种伟大精神甚至令波托斯感到震惊。德温特勋爵和他的朋友重复了法国人的慷慨之举，除MM外，都受到高度赞扬。格里莫、巴赞、穆斯克东和普朗谢特。

Lord de Winter, on quitting d’Artagnan, gave him his sister’s address. She lived in the Place Royale—then the fashionable quarter—at Number 6, and he undertook to call and take d’Artagnan with him in order to introduce him. d’Artagnan appointed eight o’clock at Athos’s residence.
德温特勋爵离开达达尼昂后，给了他妹妹的地址。她住在皇家广场——当时的时尚街区——六号，他答应打电话并带达达尼昂一起去，以便介绍他。达达尼昂约定八点钟到阿多斯的住处。

This introduction to Milady Clarik occupied the head of our Gascon greatly. He remembered in what a strange manner this woman had hitherto been mixed up in his destiny. According to his conviction, she was some creature of the cardinal, and yet he felt himself invincibly drawn toward her by one of those sentiments for which we cannot account. His only fear was that Milady would recognize in him the man of Meung and of Dover. Then she knew that he was one of the friends of M. de Treville, and consequently, that he belonged body and soul to the king; which would make him lose a part of his advantage, since when known to Milady as he knew her, he played only an equal game with her. As to the commencement of an intrigue between her and M. de Wardes, our presumptuous hero gave but little heed to that, although the marquis was young, handsome, rich, and high in the cardinal’s favor. It is not for nothing we are but twenty years old, above all if we were born at Tarbes.
对米拉迪·克拉里克的介绍极大地吸引了我们加斯科涅人的注意力。他记得这个女人迄今为止以一种多么奇怪的方式与他的命运纠缠在一起。根据他的信念，她是红衣主教的某种产物，然而他感到自己被一种我们无法解释的情感所不可战胜地吸引到了她身边。他唯一担心的是米莱迪会认出他是来自默恩和多佛的人。这时她才知道他是德·特雷维尔先生的朋友之一，因此，他的身体和灵魂都属于国王。这会让他失去一部分优势，因为当他认识米莱迪时，他与她只是平等的游戏。至于她和德瓦尔德先生之间的阴谋的开始，我们的自以为是的英雄几乎没有注意到这一点，尽管侯爵年轻、英俊、富有，而且很受红衣主教的青睐。我们二十岁并不是没有原因的，尤其是如果我们出生在塔布的话。

D’Artagnan began by making his most splendid toilet, then returned to Athos’s, and according to custom, related everything to him. Athos listened to his projects, then shook his head, and recommended prudence to him with a shade of bitterness.
达达尼昂首先制作了他最华丽的厕所，然后回到阿托斯的房间，按照惯例，向他讲述了一切。阿托斯听完他的计划，然后摇摇头，带着一丝苦涩地向他建议要谨慎行事。

‘What!’ said he, ‘you have just lost one woman, whom you call good, charming, perfect; and here you are, running headlong after another.’
“什么！”他说，“你刚刚失去了一个女人，你称她为善良、迷人、完美；而你就在这里，一个接一个地狂奔。

D’Artagnan felt the truth of this reproach.
达达尼昂感受到了这种责备的真实性。

‘I loved Madame Bonacieux with my heart, while I only love Milady with my head,’ said he. ‘In getting introduced to her, my principal object is to ascertain what part she plays at court.’
“我全心全意地爱博纳瑟夫人，而我只用头脑爱米莱迪，”他说。 “在向她介绍时，我的主要目的是确定她在法庭上扮演什么角色。”

‘The part she plays, PARDIEU! It is not difficult to divine that, after all you have told me. She is some emissary of the cardinal; a woman who will draw you into a snare in which you will leave your head.’
“她扮演的角色，帕迪厄！毕竟你已经告诉我了，不难推测这一点。她是红衣主教的特使；一个女人会把你拉进网罗，让你丢掉你的头。”

‘The devil! my dear Athos, you view things on the dark side, methinks.’
'恶魔！我亲爱的阿托斯，我认为你看待事物的阴暗面。

‘My dear fellow, I mistrust women. Can it be otherwise? I bought my experience dearly—particularly fair women. Milady is fair, you say?’
“亲爱的朋友，我不信任女人。还可以吗？我为自己的经历付出了高昂的代价——尤其是美丽的女性。你说米莱迪公平吗？

‘She has the most beautiful light hair imaginable!’
“她有一头可以想象到的最美丽的浅色头发！”

‘Ah, my poor d’Artagnan!’ said Athos.
“啊，我可怜的达达尼昂！”阿托斯说道。

‘Listen to me! I want to be enlightened on a subject; then, when I shall have learned what I desire to know, I will withdraw.’
'听我说！我想在一个主题上得到启发；然后，当我了解了我想知道的事情时，我就会退出。

‘Be enlightened!’ said Athos, phlegmatically.
“开悟吧！”阿多斯冷漠地说。

Lord de Winter arrived at the appointed time; but Athos, being warned of his coming, went into the other chamber. He therefore found d’Artagnan alone, and as it was nearly eight o’clock he took the young man with him.
温特勋爵在约定的时间到达。但阿多斯接到警告他要来，就走进了另一个房间。因此，他发现达达尼昂独自一人，当时已经快八点了，他带着年轻人一起去了。

An elegant carriage waited below, and as it was drawn by two excellent horses, they were soon at the Place Royale.
一辆优雅的马车在下面等候，由两匹良马牵引，很快就到了皇家广场。

Milady Clarik received d’Artagnan ceremoniously. Her hotel was remarkably sumptuous, and while the most part of the English had quit, or were about to quit, France on account of the war, Milady had just been laying out much money upon her residence; which proved that the general measure which drove the English from France did not affect her.
米拉迪·克拉里克隆重接待了达达尼昂。她的旅馆非常豪华，虽然大多数英国人由于战争而离开或即将离开法国，但米莱迪刚刚在她的住所上投入了很多钱；因此，她的旅馆非常豪华。这证明将英国人赶出法国的一般措施并没有影响到她。

‘You see,’ said Lord de Winter, presenting d’Artagnan to his sister, ‘a young gentleman who has held my life in his hands, and who has not abused his advantage, although we have been twice enemies, although it was I who insulted him, and although I am an Englishman. Thank him, then, madame, if you have any affection for me.’
“你看，”德温特勋爵把达达尼昂介绍给他的妹妹，“一位年轻的绅士，他把我的生命掌握在他的手中，他没有滥用他的优势，尽管我们已经两次成为敌人，尽管是我谁侮辱了他，尽管我是英国人。那么，夫人，如果您对我有一点感情的话，谢谢他。”

Milady frowned slightly; a scarcely visible cloud passed over her brow, and so peculiar a smile appeared upon her lips that the young man, who saw and observed this triple shade, almost shuddered at it.
米莱迪微微皱眉；一朵几乎看不见的云彩掠过她的额头，她的嘴唇上浮现出如此奇特的微笑，以至于看到并观察到这三重阴影的年轻人几乎为此颤抖起来。

The brother did not perceive this; he had turned round to play with Milady’s favorite monkey, which had pulled him by the doublet.
哥哥没有意识到这一点；他转过身来和米莱迪最喜欢的猴子玩耍，猴子拉着他的上衣。

‘You are welcome, monsieur,’ said Milady, in a voice whose singular sweetness contrasted with the symptoms of ill-humor which d’Artagnan had just remarked; ‘you have today acquired eternal rights to my gratitude.’
“不客气，先生，”米莱迪说道，她的声音异常甜美，与达达尼昂刚才所说的坏脾气形成鲜明对比。 “今天你获得了我永远的感激之情。”

The Englishman then turned round and described the combat without omitting a single detail. Milady listened with the greatest attention, and yet it was easily to be perceived, whatever effort she made to conceal her impressions, that this recital was not agreeable to her. The blood rose to her head, and her little foot worked with impatience beneath her robe.
英国人随后转过身来，毫不遗漏地描述了这场战斗。米莱迪全神贯注地听着，但无论她如何努力掩饰自己的印象，都很容易看出她并不喜欢这场朗诵会。血涌到了她的头上，她的小脚在长袍下不耐烦地活动着。

Lord de Winter perceived nothing of this. When he had finished, he went to a table upon which was a salver with Spanish wine and glasses. He filled two glasses, and by a sign invited d’Artagnan to drink.
德温特勋爵对此毫无察觉。吃完后，他走到一张桌子旁，桌上放着一个托盘，里面放着西班牙葡萄酒和玻璃杯。他倒了两杯酒，示意达达尼昂喝酒。

D’Artagnan knew it was considered disobliging by an Englishman to refuse to pledge him. He therefore drew near to the table and took the second glass. He did not, however, lose sight of Milady, and in a mirror he perceived the change that came over her face. Now that she believed herself to be no longer observed, a sentiment resembling ferocity animated her countenance. She bit her handkerchief with her beautiful teeth.
达达尼昂知道，一个英国人拒绝向他保证，会被认为是不负责任的行为。于是他走近桌子，拿起了第二个杯子。然而，他并没有忽视米莱迪，他在镜子里看到了她脸上的变化。现在她相信自己不再被人监视，她的脸上浮现出一种类似凶猛的情绪。她用美丽的牙齿咬着手帕。

That pretty little SOUBRETTE whom d’Artagnan had already observed then came in. She spoke some words to Lord de Winter in English, who thereupon requested d’Artagnan’s permission to retire, excusing himself on account of the urgency of the business that had called him away, and charging his sister to obtain his pardon.
达达尼昂已经注意到的那个漂亮的小苏布雷特进来了。她用英语跟德温特勋爵说了几句话，德温特勋爵随即请求达达尼昂允许退休，并以打电话给他的事情紧急为借口原谅自己。离开，并嘱咐他的妹妹请求他的赦免。

D’Artagnan exchanged a shake of the hand with Lord de Winter, and then returned to Milady. Her countenance, with surprising mobility, had recovered its gracious expression; but some little red spots on her handkerchief indicated that she had bitten her lips till the blood came. Those lips were magnificent; they might be said to be of coral.
达达尼昂与德温特勋爵握了握手，然后回到了米莱迪身边。她的面容，出人意料的灵活，又恢复了优雅的表情。但她的手帕上有一些小红点，表明她曾咬过嘴唇，直到流血。那双嘴唇非常美丽；它们可以说是珊瑚制成的。

The conversation took a cheerful turn. Milady appeared to have entirely recovered. She told d’Artagnan that Lord de Winter was her brother-in-law, and not her brother. She had married a younger brother of the family, who had left her a widow with one child. This child was the only heir to Lord de Winter, if Lord de Winter did not marry. All this showed d’Artagnan that there was a veil which concealed something; but he could not yet see under this veil.
谈话的气氛变得愉快起来。米莱迪似乎已经完全康复了。她告诉达达尼昂，德温特勋爵是她的姐夫，而不是她的兄弟。她嫁给了家里的一位弟弟，弟弟留下了她一个寡妇，带着一个孩子。如果德温特勋爵不结婚，这个孩子就是德温特勋爵的唯一继承人。这一切都向达达尼昂表明，有一层面纱掩盖了某些东西。但他还看不到这面纱下面的东西。

In addition to this, after a half hour’s conversation d’Artagnan was convinced that Milady was his compatriot; she spoke French with an elegance and a purity that left no doubt on that head.
除此之外，经过半个小时的谈话，达达尼昂确信米莱迪是他的同胞。她说法语时优雅而纯洁，这一点毫无疑问。

D’Artagnan was profuse in gallant speeches and protestations of devotion. To all the simple things which escaped our Gascon, Milady replied with a smile of kindness. The hour came for him to retire. D’Artagnan took leave of Milady, and left the saloon the happiest of men.
达达尼昂热衷于发表慷慨的演讲和虔诚的声明。对于我们加斯科涅人没有想到的所有简单的事情，米莱迪都以善意的微笑回答。他退休的时刻到了。达达尼昂告别了米莱迪，带着最幸福的人离开了酒吧。

On the staircase he met the pretty SOUBRETTE, who brushed gently against him as she passed, and then, blushing to the eyes, asked his pardon for having touched him in a voice so sweet that the pardon was granted instantly.
在楼梯上，他遇到了漂亮的女主角，她经过时轻轻地拂过他，然后红着眼睛请求他原谅，因为她用如此甜美的声音碰了他，以至于立即得到了原谅。

D’Artagnan came again on the morrow, and was still better received than on the evening before. Lord de Winter was not at home; and it was Milady who this time did all the honors of the evening. She appeared to take a great interest in him, asked him whence he came, who were his friends, and whether he had not sometimes thought of attaching himself to the cardinal.
达达尼昂第二天又来了，仍然比前一天晚上受到更好的欢迎。德温特勋爵不在家。这次是米莱迪承担了当晚的所有荣誉。她似乎对他很感兴趣，问他从哪里来，他的朋友是谁，以及他是否有时想过要与红衣主教建立联系。

D’Artagnan, who, as we have said, was exceedingly prudent for a young man of twenty, then remembered his suspicions regarding Milady. He launched into a eulogy of his Eminence, and said that he should not have failed to enter into the Guards of the cardinal instead of the king’s Guards if he had happened to know M. de Cavois instead of M. de Treville.
达达尼昂，正如我们所说，对于一个二十岁的年轻人来说是非常谨慎的，然后想起了他对米莱迪的怀疑。他向主教阁下致悼词，并说，如果他碰巧认识德·卡沃斯先生而不是德·特雷维尔先生，他就不会错过加入红衣主教卫队而不是国王卫队。

Milady changed the conversation without any appearance of affectation, and asked d’Artagnan in the most careless manner possible if he had ever been in England.
米莱迪毫不做作地改变了话题，并以最漫不经心的方式问达达尼昂是否来过英格兰。

D’Artagnan replied that he had been sent thither by M. de Treville to treat for a supply of horses, and that he had brought back four as specimens.
达达尼昂回答说，德·特雷维尔先生派他到那里去处理马匹供应，他带回了四匹马作为样本。

Milady in the course of the conversation twice or thrice bit her lips; she had to deal with a Gascon who played close.
说话的过程中，米莱迪咬了嘴唇两三次。她必须对付一个实力接近的加斯科涅人。

At the same hour as on the preceding evening, d’Artagnan retired. In the corridor he again met the pretty Kitty; that was the name of the SOUBRETTE. She looked at him with an expression of kindness which it was impossible to mistake; but d’Artagnan was so preoccupied by the mistress that he noticed absolutely nothing but her.
与前一天晚上相同的时间，达达尼昂退休了。在走廊里，他又遇见了漂亮的凯蒂。这就是《SOUBRETTE》的名字。她看着他，眼神里充满了善意，让人不会误会。但达达尼昂全神贯注于情妇，除了她以外，他什么也没注意到。

D’Artagnan came again on the morrow and the day after that, and each day Milady gave him a more gracious reception.
达达尼昂第二天和后天又来了，米莱迪一天比一天更加盛情款待他。

Every evening, either in the antechamber, the corridor, or on the stairs, he met the pretty SOUBRETTE. But, as we have said, d’Artagnan paid no attention to this persistence of poor Kitty.
每天晚上，无论是在前厅、走廊还是楼梯上，他都会遇见美丽的苏布雷特。但是，正如我们所说，达达尼昂并没有注意到可怜的基蒂的这种坚持。

32 A PROCURATOR’S DINNER
32 检察官的晚餐

However brilliant had been the part played by Porthos in the duel, it had not made him forget the dinner of the procurator’s wife.
无论波托斯在决斗中扮演的角色有多出色，他都没有忘记检察官妻子的晚餐。

On the morrow he received the last touches of Mousqueton’s brush for an hour, and took his way toward the Rue aux Ours with the steps of a man who was doubly in favor with fortune.
第二天，他接受了穆斯克东画笔的最后一击，用了一个小时，然后迈着双倍受命运眷顾的人的脚步朝我们街走去。

His heart beat, but not like d’Artagnan’s with a young and impatient love. No; a more material interest stirred his blood. He was about at last to pass that mysterious threshold, to climb those unknown stairs by which, one by one, the old crowns of M. Coquenard had ascended. He was about to see in reality a certain coffer of which he had twenty times beheld the image in his dreams—a coffer long and deep, locked, bolted, fastened in the wall; a coffer of which he had so often heard, and which the hands—a little wrinkled, it is true, but still not without elegance—of the procurator’s wife were about to open to his admiring looks.
他的心在跳动，但不像达达尼昂那样充满着年轻而急躁的爱情。不;一种更物质的兴趣搅动了他的血液。他终于要跨过那个神秘的门槛，爬上那些未知的楼梯，科奎纳尔先生的旧王冠就是通过这些楼梯一一登上去的。他即将在现实中看到一个他在梦中见过二十次的金库——一个又长又深的金库，锁着，用螺栓固定，固定在墙上；一个金库。他经常听到这个箱子，检察官妻子的双手——确实有点皱纹，但仍然不失优雅——即将打开，迎接他钦佩的目光。

And then he—a wanderer on the earth, a man without fortune, a man without family, a soldier accustomed to inns, cabarets, taverns, and restaurants, a lover of wine forced to depend upon chance treats—was about to partake of family meals, to enjoy the pleasures of a comfortable establishment, and to give himself up to those little attentions which ‘the harder one is, the more they please,’ as old soldiers say.
然后他——一个大地上的流浪者，一个没有财富的人，一个没有家人的人，一个习惯于客栈、歌舞厅、酒馆和餐馆的士兵，一个被迫依赖偶然待遇的葡萄酒爱好者——即将与家人分享吃饭，享受舒适场所的乐趣，并全身心地投入到那些小小的照顾中，正如老士兵所说，“越难，他们就越高兴”。

To come in the capacity of a cousin, and seat himself every day at a good table; to smooth the yellow, wrinkled brow of the old procurator; to pluck the clerks a little by teaching them BASSETTE, PASSE-DIX, and LANSQUENET, in their utmost nicety, and winning from them, by way of fee for the lesson he would give them in an hour, their savings of a month—all this was enormously delightful to Porthos.
以表弟的身份来，每天坐在一张好桌子旁；抚平老检察官黄皱的眉头；教职员们一点点精气神，教他们巴塞特、帕斯迪克斯和兰斯奎内特，以最精细的方式教他们，并从他们那里赢得，通过他在一小时内给他们上课的费用，他们一个月的积蓄——全部这让波托斯非常高兴。

The Musketeer could not forget the evil reports which then prevailed, and which indeed have survived them, of the procurators of the period—meanness, stinginess, fasts; but as, after all, excepting some few acts of economy which Porthos had always found very unseasonable, the procurator’s wife had been tolerably liberal—that is, be it understood, for a procurator’s wife—he hoped to see a household of a highly comfortable kind.
火枪手无法忘记当时盛行的、而且确实在他们之后幸存下来的关于那个时期检察官的邪恶报道——卑鄙、吝啬、禁食；但是，毕竟，除了波尔托斯一直认为非常不合时宜的一些经济行为外，检察官的妻子还是算得上自由的——也就是说，可以理解，对于检察官的妻子来说——他希望看到一个非常舒适的家庭。种类。

And yet, at the very door the Musketeer began to entertain some doubts. The approach was not such as to prepossess people—an ill-smelling, dark passage, a staircase halflighted by bars through which stole a glimmer from a neighboring yard; on the first floor a low door studded with enormous nails, like the principal gate of the Grand Chatelet.
然而，刚到门口，火枪手就开始产生一些疑虑。这条路并不吸引人们的注意——一条恶臭、黑暗的通道，一个被栅栏照亮的楼梯，透过栅栏偷走了邻近院子的微光；一楼有一扇低矮的门，上面钉满了巨大的钉子，就像大城堡的正门一样。

Porthos knocked with his hand. A tall, pale clerk, his face shaded by a forest of virgin hair, opened the door, and bowed with the air of a man forced at once to respect in another lofty stature, which indicated strength, the military dress, which indicated rank, and a ruddy countenance, which indicated familiarity with good living.
波托斯用手敲了敲。一个高大、苍白的职员，他的脸被浓密的处女头发遮住，打开了门，鞠了一躬，神情就像一个男人被迫立即尊重的另一个崇高的身材，这表明了力量，军装表明了等级，面色红润，表明对美好生活的熟悉。

A shorter clerk came behind the first, a taller clerk behind the second, a stripling of a dozen years rising behind the third. In all, three clerks and a half, which, for the time, argued a very extensive clientage.
第一个后面有一个矮个子职员，第二个后面有一个较高的职员，第三个后面是一个十几岁的小伙子。总共有三个半职员，当时他们的客户范围非常广泛。

Although the Musketeer was not expected before one o’clock, the procurator’s wife had been on the watch ever since midday, reckoning that the heart, or perhaps the stomach, of her lover would bring him before his time.
虽然火枪手在一点钟之前不会到来，但检察官的妻子从中午就开始守候，她认为她爱人的心，或者也许是胃，会提前把他带来。

Mme. Coquenard therefore entered the office from the house at the same moment her guest entered from the stairs, and the appearance of the worthy lady relieved him from an awkward embarrassment. The clerks surveyed him with great curiosity, and he, not knowing well what to say to this ascending and descending scale, remained tongue-tied.
女士。因此，在她的客人从楼梯进来的同时，科克纳德也从家里进入了办公室，而这位可敬的女士的出现使他摆脱了尴尬的尴尬。店员们好奇地打量着他，他对这上升和下降的音阶不知道该说些什么，只好结结巴巴。

‘It is my cousin!’ cried the procurator’s wife. ‘Come in, come in, Monsieur Porthos!’
“这是我的表弟！”检察官的妻子喊道。 “请进，请进，波托斯先生！”

The name of Porthos produced its effect upon the clerks, who began to laugh; but Porthos turned sharply round, and every countenance quickly recovered its gravity.
波托斯的名字对职员们产生了影响，他们开始大笑。但波尔托斯猛地转过身来，脸上的表情很快恢复了严肃。

They reached the office of the procurator after having passed through the antechamber in which the clerks were, and the study in which they ought to have been. This last apartment was a sort of dark room, littered with papers. On quitting the study they left the kitchen on the right, and entered the reception room.
穿过书记员所在的前厅和他们本应所在的书房，他们来到了检察官办公室。最后一间公寓是一间黑暗的房间，里面堆满了文件。退出书房后，他们离开了右边的厨房，进入了接待室。

All these rooms, which communicated with one another, did not inspire Porthos favorably. Words might be heard at a distance through all these open doors. Then, while passing, he had cast a rapid, investigating glance into the kitchen; and he was obliged to confess to himself, to the shame of the procurator’s wife and his own regret, that he did not see that fire, that animation, that bustle, which when a good repast is on foot prevails generally in that sanctuary of good living.
所有这些相互连通的房间并没有给波托斯带来好感。透过所有这些敞开的门，可以听到远处的说话声。然后，当他经过时，他迅速地、调查地看了一眼厨房。他不得不向自己承认，令检察官的妻子感到羞耻，也令他自己感到遗憾的是，他没有看到那场火、那场热闹、那场喧闹，而当人们步行吃一顿丰盛的饭菜时，在那个美好的避难所里通常会看到这样的景象。活的。

The procurator had without doubt been warned of his visit, as he expressed no surprise at the sight of Porthos, who advanced toward him with a sufficiently easy air, and saluted him courteously.
毫无疑问，检察官已经被警告过他的来访，因为他对波尔托斯的出现并不感到惊讶，波尔托斯以一种足够轻松的神情向他走来，并礼貌地向他行礼。

‘We are cousins, it appears, Monsieur Porthos?’ said the procurator, rising, yet supporting his weight upon the arms of his cane chair.
“波托斯先生，看来我们是表兄弟？”检察官站起身来，用藤椅的扶手支撑着自己的体重。

The old man, wrapped in a large black doublet, in which the whole of his slender body was concealed, was brisk and dry. His little gray eyes shone like carbuncles, and appeared, with his grinning mouth, to be the only part of his face in which life survived. Unfortunately the legs began to refuse their service to this bony machine. During the last five or six months that this weakness had been felt, the worthy procurator had nearly become the slave of his wife.
老者裹着宽大的黑色上衣，将整个修长的身躯隐藏在里面，显得干爽而干爽。他那双灰色的小眼睛像痈一样闪闪发光，嘴角咧着嘴，似乎是他脸上唯一还有生命的部分。不幸的是，双腿开始拒绝为这台骨骼机器服务。在感受到这种弱点的最后五六个月里，这位可敬的检察官几乎成了他妻子的奴隶。

The cousin was received with resignation, that was all. M. Coquenard, firm upon his legs, would have declined all relationship with M. Porthos.
表弟受到了辞职的接待，仅此而已。科克纳尔先生的双腿坚定，他会拒绝与波托斯先生有任何关系。

‘Yes, monsieur, we are cousins,’ said Porthos, without being disconcerted, as he had never reckoned upon being received enthusiastically by the husband.
“是的，先生，我们是表兄弟。”波托斯说道，他并没有感到不安，因为他从来没有想到会受到丈夫的热情接待。

‘By the female side, I believe?’ said the procurator, maliciously.
“我相信是女性这边吧？”检察官恶狠狠地说。

Porthos did not feel the ridicule of this, and took it for a piece of simplicity, at which he laughed in his large mustache. Mme. Coquenard, who knew that a simple-minded procurator was a very rare variety in the species, smiled a little, and colored a great deal.
波尔托斯并不觉得这有什么嘲讽，他把这当成一件简单的事，留着大胡子，哈哈大笑。女士。科克纳德知道头脑简单的检察官在这个物种中是非常罕见的，他微微一笑，脸色大变。

M. Coquenard had, since the arrival of Porthos, frequently cast his eyes with great uneasiness upon a large chest placed in front of his oak desk. Porthos comprehended that this chest, although it did not correspond in shape with that which he had seen in his dreams, must be the blessed coffer, and he congratulated himself that the reality was several feet higher than the dream.
自从波托斯到来之后，科克纳德先生就时常将目光不安地投向放在他橡木办公桌前的一个大箱子上。波尔托斯明白，这个箱子虽然形状与他梦中看到的不相符，但一定是受祝福的箱子，他庆幸现实比梦境高出数英尺。

M. Coquenard did not carry his genealogical investigations any further; but withdrawing his anxious look from the chest and fixing it upon Porthos, he contented himself with saying, ‘Monsieur our cousin will do us the favor of dining with us once before his departure for the campaign, will he not, Madame Coquenard?’
科克纳德先生没有进一步进行家谱调查。但他把焦急的目光从箱子上收回来，落在波尔托斯身上，满意地说：“我们的表弟先生会在出发去参加竞选之前帮我们吃一次饭，不是吗，科奎纳尔夫人？”

This time Porthos received the blow right in his stomach, and felt it. It appeared likewise that Mme. Coquenard was not less affected by it on her part, for she added, ‘My cousin will not return if he finds that we do not treat him kindly; but otherwise he has so little time to pass in Paris, and consequently to spare to us, that we must entreat him to give us every instant he can call his own previous to his departure.’
这次波托斯的腹部受到了打击，并且感觉到了。看来同样是女士。科克纳德对此的影响也丝毫不减，她补充道：“如果我的表弟发现我们不善待他，他就不会回来；但除此之外，他在巴黎度过的时间太少了，因此留给我们的时间就很少了，因此我们必须恳求他在离开之前给我们他可以利用的每一刻。

‘Oh, my legs, my poor legs! where are you?’ murmured Coquenard, and he tried to smile.
‘哦，我的腿，我可怜的腿！ “你在哪儿？”科奎纳尔低声问道，他试图微笑。

This succor, which came to Porthos at the moment in which he was attacked in his gastronomic hopes, inspired much gratitude in the Musketeer toward the procurator’s wife.
波托斯在他的美食希望遭到袭击时得到了这种救助，这激起了火枪手对检察官妻子的感激之情。

The hour of dinner soon arrived. They passed into the eating room—a large dark room situated opposite the kitchen.
很快就到了吃晚饭的时间。他们走进餐厅——厨房对面的一间又大又暗的房间。

The clerks, who, as it appeared, had smelled unusual perfumes in the house, were of military punctuality, and held their stools in hand quite ready to sit down. Their jaws moved preliminarily with fearful threatenings.
店员们似乎在屋里闻到了不寻常的香水味，他们都是军人守时的，手里拿着凳子，准备坐下。他们的下巴初步动了起来，带着可怕的威胁。

‘Indeed!’ thought Porthos, casting a glance at the three hungry clerks—for the errand boy, as might be expected, was not admitted to the honors of the magisterial table, ‘in my cousin’s place, I would not keep such gourmands! They look like shipwrecked sailors who have not eaten for six weeks.’
“确实如此！”波尔托斯想道，看了一眼三个饥饿的办事员——正如人们所预料的那样，这个跑腿的男孩没有被允许登上行政餐桌的荣誉，“如果是在我表弟的位置上，我不会保留这样的美食家！”他们看起来就像遭遇海难的水手，已经六个星期没有吃东西了。”

M. Coquenard entered, pushed along upon his armchair with casters by Mme. Coquenard, whom Porthos assisted in rolling her husband up to the table. He had scarcely entered when he began to agitate his nose and his jaws after the example of his clerks.
科克纳德先生进来了，由夫人推着他的带脚轮的扶手椅。波托斯协助科奎纳德将她的丈夫推到桌子上。他刚一进门，就开始效仿他的职员，鼻子和下巴都开始躁动起来。

‘Oh, oh!’ said he; ‘here is a soup which is rather inviting.’
“噢，噢！”他说。 “这是一道相当诱人的汤。”

‘What the devil can they smell so extraordinary in this soup?’ said Porthos, at the sight of a pale liquid, abundant but entirely free from meat, on the surface of which a few crusts swam about as rare as the islands of an archipelago.
“这汤到底是怎么闻起来如此特别的？”波托斯看到一种苍白的液体，液体丰富，但完全不含肉，表面有一些硬皮在游动，就像群岛上的岛屿一样稀有。 。

Mme. Coquenard smiled, and upon a sign from her everyone eagerly took his seat.
女士。科克纳尔微笑着，在她示意后，每个人都急切地入座。

M. Coquenard was served first, then Porthos. Afterward Mme. Coquenard filled her own plate, and distributed the crusts without soup to the impatient clerks. At this moment the door of the dining room unclosed with a creak, and Porthos perceived through the half-open flap the little clerk who, not being allowed to take part in the feast, ate his dry bread in the passage with the double odor of the dining room and kitchen.
M. Coquenard 首先上桌，然后是 Porthos。随后夫人。科奎纳尔给自己的盘子装满了，把没有汤的​​面包皮分发给不耐烦的店员。就在这时，餐厅的门吱呀一声关上了，波托斯透过半开的门板看到了那个小伙计，他不被允许参加宴会，在过道里吃着带有双重气味的干面包。餐厅和厨房。

After the soup the maid brought a boiled fowl—a piece of magnificence which caused the eyes of the diners to dilate in such a manner that they seemed ready to burst.
喝完汤，侍女端来了一只水煮鸡，那一绝，让食客们的眼睛都瞪得快要炸裂了。

‘One may see that you love your family, Madame Coquenard,’ said the procurator, with a smile that was almost tragic. ‘You are certainly treating your cousin very handsomely!’
“人们可以看出你爱你的家人，科克纳尔夫人，”检察官说道，笑容几乎是悲剧性的。 “你对你表弟真是太好了！”

The poor fowl was thin, and covered with one of those thick, bristly skins through which the teeth cannot penetrate with all their efforts. The fowl must have been sought for a long time on the perch, to which it had retired to die of old age.
这只可怜的家禽很瘦弱，身上覆盖着一层厚厚的、长满刚毛的皮肤，牙齿用尽全力都无法穿透它。这只鸟一定在栖木上被寻找了很长时间，它已经退休到老死了。

‘The devil!’ thought Porthos, ‘this is poor work. I respect old age, but I don’t much like it boiled or roasted.’
“天哪！”波尔托斯心想，“这真是糟糕的工作。”我尊重老年，但我不太喜欢煮或烤。

And he looked round to see if anybody partook of his opinion; but on the contrary, he saw nothing but eager eyes which were devouring, in anticipation, that sublime fowl which was the object of his contempt.
他环顾四周，看看是否有人同意他的观点。但恰恰相反，他只看到一双热切的眼睛，正在等待着吞噬他所鄙视的那只高贵的家禽。

Mme. Coquenard drew the dish toward her, skillfully detached the two great black feet, which she placed upon her husband’s plate, cut off the neck, which with the head she put on one side for herself, raised the wing for Porthos, and then returned the bird otherwise intact to the servant who had brought it in, who disappeared with it before the Musketeer had time to examine the variations which disappointment produces upon faces, according to the characters and temperaments of those who experience it.
女士。科克纳德把盘子拉向她，熟练地把两只巨大的黑脚分开，放在她丈夫的盘子上，切掉脖子，把头放在一边，为波尔托斯举起翅膀，然后把盘子还给她。这只鸟对于带它进来的仆人来说完好无损，在火枪手有时间根据经历者的性格和气质检查失望在脸上产生的变化之前，仆人就带着它消失了。

In the place of the fowl a dish of haricot beans made its appearance—an enormous dish in which some bones of mutton that at first sight one might have believed to have some meat on them pretended to show themselves.
取代鸡肉的地方出现了一道扁豆——这是一道巨大的菜肴，里面有一些羊骨头，乍一看可能会让人相信上面有肉。

But the clerks were not the dupes of this deceit, and their lugubrious looks settled down into resigned countenances.
但店员们并没有被这种欺骗所欺骗，他们阴郁的表情变成了无奈的表情。

Mme. Coquenard distributed this dish to the young men with the moderation of a good housewife.
女士。科克纳尔以一位好家庭主妇的节制将这道菜分发给年轻人。

The time for wine came. M. Coquenard poured from a very small stone bottle the third of a glass for each of the young men, served himself in about the same proportion, and passed the bottle to Porthos and Mme. Coquenard.
喝酒的时间到了。科克纳尔先生从一个很小的石瓶里为每个年轻人倒了三分之一杯，自己也按同样的比例倒了一杯，然后把瓶子递给了波尔托斯和夫人。科克纳尔。

The young men filled up their third of a glass with water; then, when they had drunk half the glass, they filled it up again, and continued to do so. This brought them, by the end of the repast, to swallowing a drink which from the color of the ruby had passed to that of a pale topaz.
年轻人把第三个杯子装满了水。然后，当他们喝了一半的时候，他们又把它倒满，然后继续这样做。就餐结束时，他们喝下的饮料颜色从红宝石色变成了浅黄玉色。

Porthos ate his wing of the fowl timidly, and shuddered when he felt the knee of the procurator’s wife under the table, as it came in search of his. He also drank half a glass of this sparingly served wine, and found it to be nothing but that horrible Montreuil—the terror of all expert palates.
波托斯胆怯地吃着鸡翅，当他感觉到检察官妻子的膝盖在桌子底下寻找他的时候，他浑身发抖。他还喝了半杯这种很少供应的酒，发现它只不过是可怕的蒙特勒伊葡萄酒——所有味觉专家的恐惧。

M. Coquenard saw him swallowing this wine undiluted, and sighed deeply.
科奎纳尔先生见他将这杯未稀释的酒吞了下去，深深地叹了口气。

‘Will you eat any of these beans, Cousin Porthos?’ said Mme. Coquenard, in that tone which says, ‘Take my advice, don’t touch them.’
“波尔托斯表弟，你想吃这些豆子吗？”科克纳尔用那种语气说：“听从我的建议，不要碰它们。”

‘Devil take me if I taste one of them!’ murmured Porthos to himself, and then said aloud, ‘Thank you, my cousin, I am no longer hungry.’
“如果我尝尝其中的一种，那就见鬼吧！”波尔托斯自言自语道，然后大声说道，“谢谢你，我的表弟，我不再饿了。”

There was silence. Porthos could hardly keep his countenance.
一片寂静。波托斯的脸色难掩。

The procurator repeated several times, ‘Ah, Madame Coquenard! Accept my compliments; your dinner has been a real feast. Lord, how I have eaten!’
检察官重复了好几次：“啊，科克纳尔夫人！接受我的赞美；你的晚餐真是一顿丰盛的盛宴。主啊，我吃得多好啊！

M. Coquenard had eaten his soup, the black feet of the fowl, and the only mutton bone on which there was the least appearance of meat.
科奎纳尔先生已经吃完了他的汤、黑鸡脚和唯一一块肉质最淡的羊骨头。

Porthos fancied they were mystifying him, and began to curl his mustache and knit his eyebrows; but the knee of Mme. Coquenard gently advised him to be patient.
波尔托斯觉得他们让他感到迷惑，开始卷曲他的小胡子，皱起眉头。但女士的膝盖。科奎纳德温和地劝他要有耐心。

This silence and this interruption in serving, which were unintelligible to Porthos, had, on the contrary, a terrible meaning for the clerks. Upon a look from the procurator, accompanied by a smile from Mme. Coquenard, they arose slowly from the table, folded their napkins more slowly still, bowed, and retired.
这种沉默和服务中断对波尔托斯来说是难以理解的，相反，对职员来说却有着可怕的意义。检察官看了一眼，伴随着夫人的微笑。科克纳德，他们慢慢地从桌子上站起来，更慢地折叠餐巾，鞠躬，然后退了出去。

‘Go, young men! go and promote digestion by working,’ said the procurator, gravely.
‘走吧，年轻人！去工作促进消化吧。”检察官严肃地说。

The clerks gone, Mme. Coquenard rose and took from a buffet a piece of cheese, some preserved quinces, and a cake which she had herself made of almonds and honey.
职员们走了，夫人。科奎纳德站起身来，从自助餐中取出一块奶酪、一些腌制的榅桲，以及一个她自己用杏仁和蜂蜜做的蛋糕。

M. Coquenard knit his eyebrows because there were too many good things. Porthos bit his lips because he saw not the wherewithal to dine. He looked to see if the dish of beans was still there; the dish of beans had disappeared.
科奎纳德先生皱起了眉头，因为好东西太多了。波托斯咬着嘴唇，因为他没有钱吃饭。他看了看那盘豆子是否还在。那盘豆子不见了。

‘A positive feast!’ cried M. Coquenard, turning about in his chair, ‘a real feast, EPULCE EPULORUM. Lucullus dines with Lucullus.’
“一顿丰盛的盛宴！”科奎纳德先生在椅子上转过身喊道，“一场真正的盛宴，EPULCE EPULORUM。”卢库勒斯和卢库勒斯一起吃饭。

Porthos looked at the bottle, which was near him, and hoped that with wine, bread, and cheese, he might make a dinner; but wine was wanting, the bottle was empty. M. and Mme. Coquenard did not seem to observe it.
波托斯看着他身边的瓶子，希望能用酒、面包和奶酪来做一顿晚餐；但他没有想到。但缺少酒，瓶子是空的。 M.和Mme。科奎纳德似乎没有注意到这一点。

‘This is fine!’ said Porthos to himself; ‘I am prettily caught!’
“这很好！”波托斯自言自语道。 “我被漂亮地抓住了！”

He passed his tongue over a spoonful of preserves, and stuck his teeth into the sticky pastry of Mme. Coquenard.
他用舌头舔过一勺蜜饯，然后把牙齿咬进了夫人粘糊糊的糕点里。科克纳尔。

‘Now,’ said he, ‘the sacrifice is consummated! Ah! if I had not the hope of peeping with Madame Coquenard into her husband’s chest!’
“现在，”他说，“牺牲已经完成了！”啊!如果我没有希望和科奎纳德夫人一起窥视她丈夫的胸膛就好了！

M. Coquenard, after the luxuries of such a repast, which he called an excess, felt the want of a siesta. Porthos began to hope that the thing would take place at the present sitting, and in that same locality; but the procurator would listen to nothing, he would be taken to his room, and was not satisfied till he was close to his chest, upon the edge of which, for still greater precaution, he placed his feet.
科克纳德先生在享用了一顿他称之为过度的奢侈大餐之后，感到想要午睡。波尔托斯开始希望这件事能在现在的会议上、在同一地点举行。但检察官什么也听不进去，他会被带到自己的房间，直到他靠近自己的胸口才满意，为了更加谨慎，他把脚放在胸口的边缘。

The procurator’s wife took Porthos into an adjoining room, and they began to lay the basis of a reconciliation.
检察官的妻子把波托斯带到了隔壁的房间，他们开始为和解奠定基础。

‘You can come and dine three times a week,’ said Mme. Coquenard.
“你每周可以来吃三次饭，”夫人说。科克纳尔。

‘Thanks, madame!’ said Porthos, ‘but I don’t like to abuse your kindness; besides, I must think of my outfit!’
“谢谢，夫人！”波托斯说道，“但我不想辜负您的好意；另外，我必须考虑一下我的衣服！

‘That’s true,’ said the procurator’s wife, groaning, ‘that unfortunate outfit!’
“确实如此，”检察官的妻子呻吟着说道，“这身衣服真不幸！”

‘Alas, yes,’ said Porthos, ‘it is so.’
“唉，是的，”波托斯说，“确实如此。”

‘But of what, then, does the equipment of your company consist, Monsieur Porthos?’
“那么，波托斯先生，你们公司的设备是由什么组成的呢？”

‘Oh, of many things!’ said Porthos. ‘The Musketeers are, as you know, picked soldiers, and they require many things useless to the Guardsmen or the Swiss.’
“哦，有很多事情！”波托斯说。 “如你所知，火枪手是精挑细选的士兵，他们需要许多对卫兵或瑞士人来说毫无用处的东西。”

‘But yet, detail them to me.’
“但是，请向我详细介绍一下。”

‘Why, they may amount to—‘, said Porthos, who preferred discussing the total to taking them one by one.
“为什么，它们可能相当于——”波托斯说，他更喜欢讨论总数，而不是一一列举。

The procurator’s wife waited tremblingly.
检察官的妻子战战兢兢地等待着。

‘To how much?’ said she. ‘I hope it does not exceed—‘ She stopped; speech failed her.
“多少钱？”她问。 “我希望它不会超过——”她停了下来；她的演讲失败了。

‘Oh, no,’ said Porthos, ‘it does not exceed two thousand five hundred livres! I even think that with economy I could manage it with two thousand livres.’
“哦，不，”波托斯说，“不超过两千五百里弗！”我什至认为，经济的话我可以用两千里弗来应付。

‘Good God!’ cried she, ‘two thousand livres! Why, that is a fortune!’
“天哪！”她喊道，“两千里弗！为什么，那是一笔财富！

Porthos made a most significant grimace; Mme. Coquenard understood it.
波托斯做了一个极其严重的鬼脸。女士。科奎纳德明白这一点。

‘I wished to know the detail,’ said she, ‘because, having many relatives in business, I was almost sure of obtaining things at a hundred per cent less than you would pay yourself.’
“我想知道细节，”她说，“因为我有很多亲戚做生意，我几乎可以肯定，我得到的东西比你自己支付的要低百分之一百。”

‘Ah, ah!’ said Porthos, ‘that is what you meant to say!’
“啊，啊！”波托斯说道，“这就是你想说的！”

‘Yes, dear Monsieur Porthos. Thus, for instance, don’t you in the first place want a horse?’
“是的，亲爱的波托斯先生。因此，举例来说，你首先不想要一匹马吗？

‘Yes, a horse.’
“是的，一匹马。”

‘Well, then! I can just suit you.’
'好吧！我正好适合你。

‘Ah!’ said Porthos, brightening, ‘that’s well as regards my horse; but I must have the appointments complete, as they include objects which a Musketeer alone can purchase, and which will not amount, besides, to more than three hundred livres.’
“啊！”波托斯脸上的笑容变得明亮起来，“我的马就这样了。但我必须完成约会，因为其中包括仅火枪手就可以购买的物品，而且金额不会超过三百里弗。

‘Three hundred livres? Then put down three hundred livres,’ said the procurator’s wife, with a sigh.
“三百里弗？然后付三百里弗。”检察官的妻子叹了口气说道。

Porthos smiled. It may be remembered that he had the saddle which came from Buckingham. These three hundred livres he reckoned upon putting snugly into his pocket.
波托斯笑了。人们可能还记得，他拥有来自白金汉宫的马鞍。他认为这三百里弗可以紧紧地放进口袋里。

‘Then,’ continued he, ‘there is a horse for my lackey, and my valise. As to my arms, it is useless to trouble you about them; I have them.’
“那么，”他继续说道，“我的仆人有一匹马，还有我的行李箱。至于我的手臂，劳烦你是没有用的；我有它们。

‘A horse for your lackey?’ resumed the procurator’s wife, hesitatingly; ‘but that is doing things in lordly style, my friend.’
“给你的仆人一匹马？”检察官的妻子犹豫着问道。 “但这就是以贵族风格做事，我的朋友。”

‘Ah, madame!’ said Porthos, haughtily; ‘do you take me for a beggar?’
“啊，夫人！”波托斯傲慢地说。 “你以为我是乞丐吗？”

‘No; I only thought that a pretty mule makes sometimes as good an appearance as a horse, and it seemed to me that by getting a pretty mule for Mousqueton—‘
'不;我只是觉得漂亮的骡子有时和马一样漂亮，在我看来，为穆斯克顿买一头漂亮的骡子——”

‘Well, agreed for a pretty mule,’ said Porthos; ‘you are right, I have seen very great Spanish nobles whose whole suite were mounted on mules. But then you understand, Madame Coquenard, a mule with feathers and bells.’
“嗯，同意买一头漂亮的骡子。”波托斯说。 “你说得对，我见过非常伟大的西班牙贵族，他们的整个套件都骑在骡子上。但后来你就明白了，科奎纳尔夫人，一头长着羽毛和铃铛的骡子。”

‘Be satisfied,’ said the procurator’s wife.
“满意吧，”检察官的妻子说。

‘There remains the valise,’ added Porthos.
“手提箱还在那里，”波托斯补充道。

‘Oh, don’t let that disturb you,’ cried Mme. Coquenard. ‘My husband has five or six valises; you shall choose the best. There is one in particular which he prefers in his journeys, large enough to hold all the world.’
“哦，别让这件事打扰你，”夫人喊道。科克纳尔。 “我丈夫有五六个行李箱；你应该选择最好的。在他的旅途中，他特别喜欢有一个大到足以容纳整个世界的东西。

‘Your valise is then empty?’ asked Porthos, with simplicity.
“那么你的行李箱是空的吗？”波托斯简单地问道。

‘Certainly it is empty,’ replied the procurator’s wife, in real innocence.
“当然是空的。”检察官的妻子一脸天真地回答道。

‘Ah, but the valise I want,’ cried Porthos, ‘is a wellfilled one, my dear.’
“啊，但是我想要的手提箱，”波托斯叫道，“是一个装得满满的，亲爱的。”

Madame uttered fresh sighs. Moliere had not written his scene in ‘L’Avare’ then. Mme. Coquenard was in the dilemma of Harpagan.
夫人发出新的叹息声。莫里哀当时还没有在《阿瓦尔》中写下他的场景。女士。科克纳尔陷入了哈帕甘的困境。

Finally, the rest of the equipment was successively debated in the same manner; and the result of the sitting was that the procurator’s wife should give eight hundred livres in money, and should furnish the horse and the mule which should have the honor of carrying Porthos and Mousqueton to glory.
最后，其余装备也依次以同样的方式进行辩论；会议的结果是，检察官的妻子应该捐出八百里弗的钱，并提供马和骡子，它们将有幸载着波尔托斯和穆斯克东走向辉煌。

These conditions being agreed to, Porthos took leave of Mme. Coquenard. The latter wished to detain him by darting certain tender glances; but Porthos urged the commands of duty, and the procurator’s wife was obliged to give place to the king.
这些条件得到同意后，波托斯就向夫人告别了。科克纳尔。后者想用温柔的眼神来留住他。但波尔托斯力促执行命令，检察官的妻子不得不让位给国王。

The Musketeer returned home hungry and in bad humor.
火枪手饿着肚子回到家，心情也不好。

33 SOUBRETTE AND MISTRESS
33 红娘子和情妇

Meantime, as we have said, despite the cries of his conscience and the wise counsels of Athos, d’Artagnan became hourly more in love with Milady. Thus he never failed to pay his diurnal court to her; and the self-satisfied Gascon was convinced that sooner or later she could not fail to respond.
与此同时，正如我们所说，尽管达达尼昂良心不断呐喊，阿多斯也提出明智的劝告，但他却越来越爱米莱迪。因此，他每天都会向她献殷勤。自鸣得意的加斯科涅确信她迟早会做出回应。

One day, when he arrived with his head in the air, and as light at heart as a man who awaits a shower of gold, he found the SOUBRETTE under the gateway of the hotel; but this time the pretty Kitty was not contented with touching him as he passed, she took him gently by the hand.
有一天，当他昂首挺胸地到达酒店时，心情轻松得像一个等待金雨的人，他在酒店的大门下发现了SOUBRETTE；但这一次，漂亮的凯蒂不满足于在他经过时碰触他，她轻轻地握住了他的手。

‘Good!’ thought d’Artagnan, ‘She is charged with some message for me from her mistress; she is about to appoint some rendezvous of which she had not courage to speak.’ And he looked down at the pretty girl with the most triumphant air imaginable.
“好极了！”达达尼昂心想，“她受命为我传达她情妇的一些信息； “她正要约一个约会地点，但她没有勇气说出来。”他低头看着这个漂亮的女孩，脸上洋溢着可以想象到的最得意的神情。

‘I wish to say three words to you, Monsieur Chevalier,’ stammered the SOUBRETTE.
“我想对您说三个字，骑士先生，”SOUBRETTE 结结巴巴地说。

‘Speak, my child, speak,’ said d’Artagnan; ‘I listen.’
“说吧，我的孩子，说吧，”达达尼昂说。 '我听。'

‘Here? Impossible! That which I have to say is too long, and above all, too secret.’
'这里？不可能的！我要说的太长了，而且最重要的是，太秘密了。

‘Well, what is to be done?’
“那么，该怎么办呢？”

‘If Monsieur Chevalier would follow me?’ said Kitty, timidly.
“骑士先生愿意跟我来吗？”基蒂胆怯地说。

‘Where you please, my dear child.’
“随你便，我亲爱的孩子。”

‘Come, then.’
“那就来吧。”

And Kitty, who had not let go the hand of d’Artagnan, led him up a little dark, winding staircase, and after ascending about fifteen steps, opened a door.
基蒂没有放开达达尼昂的手，领着他走上一段黑暗的、蜿蜒的楼梯，登上大约十五级台阶后，打开了一扇门。

‘Come in here, Monsieur Chevalier,’ said she; ‘here we shall be alone, and can talk.’
“进来吧，骑士先生，”她说道。 “我们将单独呆在这里，并且可以交谈。”

‘And whose room is this, my dear child?’
“亲爱的孩子，这是谁的房间？”

‘It is mine, Monsieur Chevalier; it communicates with my mistress’s by that door. But you need not fear. She will not hear what we say; she never goes to bed before midnight.’
“这是我的，骑士先生；它通过那扇门与我情妇的联系。但你不必害怕。她不会听我们说的话；她从不在午夜之前睡觉。

D’Artagnan cast a glance around him. The little apartment was charming for its taste and neatness; but in spite of himself, his eyes were directed to that door which Kitty said led to Milady’s chamber.
达达尼昂环顾四周。这间小公寓因其品味和整洁而迷人。但他不由自主地把目光投向了基蒂所说的通向米莱迪房间的那扇门。

Kitty guessed what was passing in the mind of the young man, and heaved a deep sigh.
凯蒂猜到了年轻人心里在想什么，深深地叹了口气。

‘You love my mistress, then, very dearly, Monsieur Chevalier?’ said she.
“那么，你非常爱我的女主人吗，骑士先生？”她说道。

‘Oh, more than I can say, Kitty! I am mad for her!’
“哦，我无法说更多，基蒂！我为她生气！

Kitty breathed a second sigh.
凯蒂第二次叹了口气。

‘Alas, monsieur,’ said she, ‘that is too bad.’
“唉，先生，”她说，“那太糟糕了。”

‘What the devil do you see so bad in it?’ said d’Artagnan.
“你到底看到了什么这么糟糕的事情？”达达尼昂说。

‘Because, monsieur,’ replied Kitty, ‘my mistress loves you not at all.’
“因为，先生，”基蒂回答道，“我的女主人根本不爱你。”

‘HEIN!’ said d’Artagnan, ‘can she have charged you to tell me so?’
“海因！”达达尼昂说道，“她能要求你告诉我这些吗？”

‘Oh, no, monsieur; but out of the regard I have for you, I have taken the resolution to tell you so.’
“哦，不，先生；但出于对你的尊重，我决定告诉你这一点。

‘Much obliged, my dear Kitty; but for the intention only—for the information, you must agree, is not likely to be at all agreeable.’
“非常感谢，我亲爱的基蒂；但仅出于意图 - 对于信息，您必须同意，但不太可能完全同意。

‘That is to say, you don’t believe what I have told you; is it not so?’
‘也就是说，你不相信我告诉你的话；不是这样吗？

‘We have always some difficulty in believing such things, my pretty dear, were it only from self-love.’
“亲爱的，如果只是出于自爱，我们总是很难相信这些事情。”

‘Then you don’t believe me?’
“那你不相信我吗？”

‘I confess that unless you deign to give me some proof of what you advance—‘
“我承认，除非你屈尊给我一些你所提出的证据——”

‘What do you think of this?’
'你觉得这怎么样？'

Kitty drew a little note from her bosom.
凯蒂从怀里抽出一张小纸条。

‘For me?’ said d’Artagnan, seizing the letter.
“给我的？”达达尼昂说，抓起那封信。

‘No; for another.’
'不;为了另一个。'

‘For another?’
'为了另一个？'

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘His name; his name!’ cried d’Artagnan.
'他的名字; “他的名字！”达达尼昂喊道。

‘Read the address.’
“读出地址。”

‘Monsieur El Comte de Wardes.’
“瓦尔德伯爵先生。”

The remembrance of the scene at St. Germain presented itself to the mind of the presumptuous Gascon. As quick as thought, he tore open the letter, in spite of the cry which Kitty uttered on seeing what he was going to do, or rather, what he was doing.
自以为是的加斯科尼人脑海中浮现出圣日耳曼的情景。尽管基蒂看到他要做什么，或者更确切地说，他正在做什么，他哭了起来，但他还是以最快的速度撕开了信。

‘Oh, good Lord, Monsieur Chevalier,’ said she, ‘what are you doing?’
“哦，上帝啊，骑士先生，”她说，“你在做什么？”

‘I?’ said d’Artagnan; ‘nothing,’ and he read,
“我？”达达尼昂说。 “没什么，”他读到，

‘You have not answered my first note. Are you indisposed, or have you forgotten the glances you favored me with at the ball of Mme. de Guise? You have an opportunity now, Count; do not allow it to escape.’
“你还没有回复我的第一封信。您是否不舒服，或者您忘记了您在夫人舞会上向我投来的目光？德吉斯？现在你有机会了，伯爵；不要让它逃脱。

d’Artagnan became very pale; he was wounded in his SELFlove: he thought that it was in his LOVE.
达达尼昂的脸色变得非常苍白。他在自爱中受伤：他认为那是在他的爱中。

‘Poor dear Monsieur d’Artagnan,’ said Kitty, in a voice full of compassion, and pressing anew the young man’s hand.
“可怜的达达尼昂先生，”基蒂用充满同情的声音说道，并再次握住了年轻人的手。

‘You pity me, little one?’ said d’Artagnan.
“你可怜我吗，小家伙？”达达尼昂说。

‘Oh, yes, and with all my heart; for I know what it is to be in love.’
“哦，是的，我全心全意；因为我知道恋爱是什么意思。

‘You know what it is to be in love?’ said d’Artagnan, looking at her for the first time with much attention.
“你知道恋爱是什么吗？”达达尼昂第一次用十分专注的目光看着她说道。

‘Alas, yes.’
“唉，是的。”

‘Well, then, instead of pitying me, you would do much better to assist me in avenging myself on your mistress.’
“那么，你与其可怜我，倒不如帮我向你的女主人报仇。”

‘And what sort of revenge would you take?’
“那么你会采取什么样的报复呢？”

‘I would triumph over her, and supplant my rival.’
“我会战胜她，取代我的对手。”

‘I will never help you in that, Monsieur Chevalier,’ said Kitty, warmly.
“我永远不会在这方面帮助你，骑士先生，”基蒂热情地说。

‘And why not?’ demanded d’Artagnan.
“为什么不呢？”达达尼昂问道。

‘For two reasons.’
“有两个原因。”

‘What ones?’
“什么？”

‘The first is that my mistress will never love you.’
“第一，我的情妇永远不会爱你。”

‘How do you know that?’
'你怎么知道？'

‘You have cut her to the heart.’
“你伤了她的心。”

‘I? In what can I have offended her—I who ever since I have known her have lived at her feet like a slave? Speak, I beg you!’
'我？自从认识她以来，我就像奴隶一样生活在她的脚下，我到底有什么得罪她的地方呢？说吧，我求你了！

‘I will never confess that but to the man—who should read to the bottom of my soul!’
“我永远不会承认这一点，除非向那个应该读我灵魂深处的人承认！”

D’Artagnan looked at Kitty for the second time. The young girl had freshness and beauty which many duchesses would have purchased with their coronets.
达达尼昂第二次看着基蒂。这位年轻的女孩拥有许多公爵夫人都会用皇冠购买的清新和美丽。

‘Kitty,’ said he, ‘I will read to the bottom of your soul when-ever you like; don’t let that disturb you.’ And he gave her a kiss at which the poor girl became as red as a cherry.
“基蒂，”他说，“只要你愿意，我都会读到你灵魂的深处；别让这件事打扰你。”他吻了她一下，可怜的女孩脸红得像樱桃一样。

‘Oh, no,’ said Kitty, ‘it is not me you love! It is my mistress you love; you told me so just now.’
“哦，不，”基蒂说，“你爱的不是我！你爱的是我的情妇；你刚才就这么告诉我了。”

‘And does that hinder you from letting me know the second reason?’
“这会妨碍你让我知道第二个原因吗？”

‘The second reason, Monsieur the Chevalier,’ replied Kitty, emboldened by the kiss in the first place, and still further by the expression of the eyes of the young man, ‘is that in love, everyone for herself!’
“第二个原因，骑士先生，”基蒂回答道，因为这个吻，再加上年轻人的眼神，让她更加大胆，“那就是爱情，每个人都为了自己！”

Then only d’Artagnan remembered the languishing glances of Kitty, her constantly meeting him in the antechamber, the corridor, or on the stairs, those touches of the hand every time she met him, and her deep sighs; but absorbed by his desire to please the great lady, he had disdained the soubrette. He whose game is the eagle takes no heed of the sparrow.
然后，只有达达尼昂记得基蒂疲惫的眼神，她不断地在前厅、走廊或楼梯上遇见他，每次遇见他时的手的触摸，以及她深深的叹息；但他全神贯注于取悦那位伟大的女士，因此鄙视了这位红娘子。以老鹰为游戏的人不会理会麻雀。

But this time our Gascon saw at a glance all the advantage to be derived from the love which Kitty had just confessed so innocently, or so boldly: the interception of letters addressed to the Comte de Wardes, news on the spot, entrance at all hours into Kitty’s chamber, which was contiguous to her mistress’s. The perfidious deceiver was, as may plainly be perceived, already sacrificing, in intention, the poor girl in order to obtain Milady, willy-nilly.
但这一次，我们的加斯科涅人一眼就看出了基蒂刚刚如此天真或如此大胆地表白的爱情所带来的所有好处：截获写给瓦尔德伯爵的信件，现场新闻，随时入场走进基蒂的房间，该房间与她女主人的房间相邻。可以清楚地看出，这个背信弃义的骗子已经有意牺牲了可怜的女孩，以便无论愿意与否，都能得到米莱迪。

‘Well,’ said he to the young girl, ‘are you willing, my dear Kitty, that I should give you a proof of that love which you doubt?’
“好吧，”他对年轻女孩说，“我亲爱的基蒂，你愿意我给你一份你怀疑的爱的证据吗？”

‘What love?’ asked the young girl.
“什么爱？”年轻女孩问道。

‘Of that which I am ready to feel toward you.’
“我已经准备好对你有这种感觉了。”

‘And what is that proof?’
“那证明是什么？”

‘Are you willing that I should this evening pass with you the time I generally spend with your mistress?’
“你愿意让我今晚和你一起度过我通常和你的情妇一起度过的时光吗？”

‘Oh, yes,’ said Kitty, clapping her hands, ‘very willing.’
“哦，是的，”基蒂拍着手说，“非常愿意。”

‘Well, then, come here, my dear,’ said d’Artagnan, establishing himself in an easy chair; ‘come, and let me tell you that you are the prettiest SOUBRETTE I ever saw!’
“那么，亲爱的，到这里来吧，”达达尼昂说着，在一张安乐椅上坐了下来。 “来吧，让我告诉你，你是我见过的最漂亮的SOUBRETTE！”

And he did tell her so much, and so well, that the poor girl, who asked nothing better than to believe him, did believe him. Nevertheless, to d’Artagnan’s great astonishment, the pretty Kitty defended herself resolutely.
他确实告诉了她那么多，而且说得那么清楚，那个可怜的女孩，除了相信他之外别无所求，她确实相信了他。然而，令达达尼昂大吃一惊的是，漂亮的基蒂坚决地捍卫了自己。

Time passes quickly when it is passed in attacks and defenses. Midnight sounded, and almost at the same time the bell was rung in Milady’s chamber.
时间在攻击和防御中流逝，过得很快。午夜钟声响起，几乎同时，米莱迪的房间里的铃声也响起。

‘Good God,’ cried Kitty, ‘there is my mistress calling me! Go; go directly!’
“天啊，”基蒂喊道，“我的女主人在呼唤我！”去;直接走！

D’Artagnan rose, took his hat, as if it had been his intention to obey, then, opening quickly the door of a large closet instead of that leading to the staircase, he buried himself amid the robes and dressing gowns of Milady.
达达尼昂站起身，拿起帽子，仿佛他打算服从似的，然后迅速打开一个大壁橱的门，而不是通向楼梯的门，把自己埋在米莱迪的长袍和晨衣中。

‘What are you doing?’ cried Kitty.
“你在做什么？”基蒂喊道。

D’Artagnan, who had secured the key, shut himself up in the closet without reply.
拿到钥匙的达达尼昂没有回答，就把自己关在壁橱里。

‘Well,’ cried Milady, in a sharp voice. ‘Are you asleep, that you don’t answer when I ring?’
“好吧，”米莱迪尖声喊道。 “你睡着了，我按铃时你没有接听吗？”

And d’Artagnan heard the door of communication opened violently.
达达尼昂听到通讯之门猛烈地打开了。

‘Here am I, Milady, here am I!’ cried Kitty, springing forward to meet her mistress.
“我在这儿，米莱迪，我在这儿！”基蒂叫道，跳上前来迎接她的女主人。

Both went into the bedroom, and as the door of communication remained open, d’Artagnan could hear Milady for some time scolding her maid. She was at length appeased, and the conversation turned upon him while Kitty was assisting her mistress.
两人走进卧室，通讯门一直开着，达达尼昂能听到米莱迪责骂她的女仆一段时间。她终于平静下来，当基蒂协助她的女主人时，话题转向了他。

‘Well,’ said Milady, ‘I have not seen our Gascon this evening.’
“好吧，”米莱迪说，“今晚我没有看到我们的加斯科涅。”

‘What, Milady! has he not come?’ said Kitty. ‘Can he be inconstant before being happy?’
‘什么，米拉迪！ “他没来吗？”基蒂说。 “他能在高兴之前就反复无常吗？”

‘Oh, no; he must have been prevented by Monsieur de Treville or Monsieur Dessessart. I understand my game, Kitty; I have this one safe.’
'不好了;他一定是被德特雷维尔先生或德塞萨尔先生阻止了。我了解我的游戏，基蒂；我有这个安全的。

‘What will you do with him, madame?’
“夫人，您打算对他做什么？”

‘What will I do with him? Be easy, Kitty, there is something between that man and me that he is quite ignorant of: he nearly made me lose my credit with his Eminence. Oh, I will be revenged!’
‘我要对他做什么？放轻松，基蒂，那个人和我之间有一些他完全不知道的事情：他差点让我失去了他大人的信任。哦，我会报仇的！

‘I believed that Madame loved him.’
“我相信夫人爱他。”

‘I love him? I detest him! An idiot, who held the life of Lord de Winter in his hands and did not kill him, by which I missed three hundred thousand livres’ income.’
'我爱他？我讨厌他！一个白痴，手里握着德温特勋爵的性命，却不杀他，我因此损失了三十万里弗的收入。”

‘That’s true,’ said Kitty; ‘your son was the only heir of his uncle, and until his majority you would have had the enjoyment of his fortune.’
“确实如此，”基蒂说。 “你的儿子是他叔叔的唯一继承人，在他成年之前，你可以享受他的财产。”

D’Artagnan shuddered to the marrow at hearing this suave creature reproach him, with that sharp voice which she took such pains to conceal in conversation, for not having killed a man whom he had seen load her with kindnesses.
达达尼昂听到这个温文尔雅的女人责备他，用她在谈话中极力掩饰的尖锐声音责备他，达达尼昂浑身颤抖，因为他没有杀死一个他看到对她充满仁慈的人。

‘For all this,’ continued Milady, ‘I should long ago have revenged myself on him if, and I don’t know why, the cardinal had not requested me to conciliate him.’
“尽管如此，”米拉迪继续说道，“如果我不知道为什么，红衣主教没有要求我安抚他，我早就应该向他报仇了。”

‘Oh, yes; but Madame has not conciliated that little woman he was so fond of.’
'哦是的;但夫人并没有安抚他如此喜爱的那个小女人。

‘What, the mercer’s wife of the Rue des Fossoyeurs? Has he not already forgotten she ever existed? Fine vengeance that, on my faith!’
“什么，福苏耶街的商人的妻子？难道他还没有忘记她的存在吗？凭我的信心，报仇雪耻！”

A cold sweat broke from d’Artagnan’s brow. Why, this woman was a monster! He resumed his listening, but unfortunately the toilet was finished.
达达尼昂的额头上渗出了冷汗。为什么，这个女人是个怪物！他继续听着，但不幸的是厕所已经结束了。

‘That will do,’ said Milady; ‘go into your own room, and tomorrow endeavor again to get me an answer to the letter I gave you.’
“那就行了，”米莱迪说。 “到你自己的房间去，明天再努力让我回复我给你的那封信。”

‘For Monsieur de Wardes?’ said Kitty.
“给德瓦尔德先生吗？”基蒂说。

‘To be sure; for Monsieur de Wardes.’
'为了确定;献给德瓦尔德先生。”

‘Now, there is one,’ said Kitty, ‘who appears to me quite a different sort of a man from that poor Monsieur d’Artagnan.’
“现在，有一个人，”基蒂说，“在我看来，他与那位可怜的达达尼昂先生完全不同。”

‘Go to bed, mademoiselle,’ said Milady; ‘I don’t like comments.’
“去睡觉吧，小姐，”米莱迪说。 “我不喜欢评论。”

D’Artagnan heard the door close; then the noise of two bolts by which Milady fastened herself in. On her side, but as softly as possible, Kitty turned the key of the lock, and then d’Artagnan opened the closet door.
达达尼昂听到门关上的声音。然后是米莱迪用两颗螺栓锁紧自己的声音。基蒂在她身边，但尽可能轻柔地转动了锁的钥匙，然后达达尼昂打开了壁橱门。

‘Oh, good Lord!’ said Kitty, in a low voice, ‘what is the matter with you? How pale you are!’
“哦，天哪！”基蒂低声说道，“你怎么了？你的脸色多么苍白啊！

‘The abominable creature’ murmured d’Artagnan.
“可恶的生物，”达达尼昂低声说道。

‘Silence, silence, begone!’ said Kitty. ‘There is nothing but a wainscot between my chamber and Milady’s; every word that is uttered in one can be heard in the other.’
“安静，安静，走开！”基蒂说。 “我的房间和米莱迪的房间之间只有一个壁板；一个人所说的每一个字都可以在另一个人身上听到。

‘That’s exactly the reason I won’t go,’ said d’Artagnan.
“这正是我不去的原因，”达达尼昂说。

‘What!’ said Kitty, blushing.
“什么！”基蒂红着脸说道。

‘Or, at least, I will go—later.’
“或者，至少，我会——稍后再去。”

He drew Kitty to him. She had the less motive to resist, resistance would make so much noise. Therefore Kitty surrendered.
他把凯蒂吸引到他身边。她根本没有反抗的动力，反抗就会闹出这么大的声音。于是基蒂投降了。

It was a movement of vengeance upon Milady. D’Artagnan believed it right to say that vengeance is the pleasure of the gods. With a little more heart, he might have been contented with this new conquest; but the principal features of his character were ambition and pride. It must, however, be confessed in his justification that the first use he made of his influence over Kitty was to try and find out what had become of Mme. Bonacieux; but the poor girl swore upon the crucifix to d’Artagnan that she was entirely ignorant on that head, her mistress never admitting her into half her secrets—only she believed she could say she was not dead.
这是对米莱迪的报复行动。达达尼昂认为，复仇是众神的乐趣是正确的。如果他再多一点心，他可能会对这次新的征服感到满意。但他性格的主要特征是野心和骄傲。然而，在他的辩护中必须承认，他利用自己对基蒂的影响力的第一个用途就是试图查明夫人的情况。博纳西厄；但可怜的女孩对着达达尼昂的十字架发誓，她在这方面完全无知，她的女主人从来不承认她有一半的秘密——只有她相信她可以说她没有死。

As to the cause which was near making Milady lose her credit with the cardinal, Kitty knew nothing about it; but this time d’Artagnan was better informed than she was. As he had seen Milady on board a vessel at the moment he was leaving England, he suspected that it was, almost without a doubt, on account of the diamond studs.
至于米莱迪差点失去红衣主教信任的原因，基蒂一无所知。但这一次达达尼昂比她更了解情况。当他离开英国时，他在一艘船上看到了米莱迪，几乎毫无疑问，他怀疑这是因为钻石耳钉。

But what was clearest in all this was that the true hatred, the profound hatred, the inveterate hatred of Milady, was increased by his not having killed her brother-in-law.
但这一切中最清楚的是，对米莱迪的真正的仇恨，深刻的仇恨，根深蒂固的仇恨，因为他没有杀死她的姐夫而更加强烈。

D’Artagnan came the next day to Milady’s, and finding her in a very ill-humor, had no doubt that it was lack of an answer from M. de Wardes that provoked her thus. Kitty came in, but Milady was very cross with her. The poor girl ventured a glance at d’Artagnan which said, ‘See how I suffer on your account!’
第二天，达达尼昂来到了米莱迪家，发现她心情很不好，他毫不怀疑，正是德瓦尔德先生没有给她答复，才激怒了她。基蒂进来了，但米莱迪对她很生气。可怜的女孩大胆地看了达达尼昂一眼，达达尼昂说道：“看看我为你受了多少苦！”

Toward the end of the evening, however, the beautiful lioness became milder; she smilingly listened to the soft speeches of d’Artagnan, and even gave him her hand to kiss.
然而，到了傍晚，美丽的母狮变得温和起来。她微笑着听达达尼昂轻柔的讲话，甚至伸出手来亲吻他。

D’Artagnan departed, scarcely knowing what to think, but as he was a youth who did not easily lose his head, while continuing to pay his court to Milady, he had framed a little plan in his mind.
达达尼昂离开时，几乎不知道自己在想什么，但他是一个不容易失去理智的年轻人，在继续向米莱迪献殷勤的同时，他心里已经制定了一个小计划。

He found Kitty at the gate, and, as on the preceding evening, went up to her chamber. Kitty had been accused of negligence and severely scolded. Milady could not at all comprehend the silence of the Comte de Wardes, and she ordered Kitty to come at nine o’clock in the morning to take a third letter.
他在门口找到了基蒂，然后像前一天晚上一样，走进了她的房间。凯蒂被指责玩忽职守并受到严厉斥责。米莱迪根本无法理解瓦尔德伯爵的沉默，她命令基蒂早上九点来拿第三封信。

D’Artagnan made Kitty promise to bring him that letter on the following morning. The poor girl promised all her lover desired; she was mad.
达达尼昂让基蒂答应第二天早上给他带来那封信。可怜的女孩答应了她爱人所想要的一切；她很生气。

Things passed as on the night before. D’Artagnan concealed himself in his closet; Milady called, undressed, sent away Kitty, and shut the door. As the night before, d’Artagnan did not return home till five o’clock in the morning.
事情就和前一天晚上一样过去了。达达尼昂把自己藏在壁橱里。米莱迪脱掉衣服，打发走了凯蒂，然后关上了门。和前一天晚上一样，达达尼昂直到凌晨五点才回到家。

At eleven o’clock Kitty came to him. She held in her hand a fresh billet from Milady. This time the poor girl did not even argue with d’Artagnan; she gave it to him at once. She belonged body and soul to her handsome soldier.
十一点钟，基蒂来找他。她手里拿着米莱迪送来的新鲜坯料。这一次，可怜的女孩甚至没有与达达尼昂争论。她立刻把它给了他。她的身体和灵魂都属于她英俊的士兵。

D’Artagnan opened the letter and read as follows:
达达尼昂打开信，读道如下：

This is the third time I have written to you to tell you that I love you. Beware that I do not write to you a fourth time to tell you that I detest you.
这是我第三次写信给你，告诉你我爱你。请注意，我第四次给你写信不是为了告诉你我讨厌你。

If you repent of the manner in which you have acted toward me, the young girl who brings you this will tell you how a man of spirit may obtain his pardon.
如果你对你对我的行为感到悔改，给你带来这封信的年轻女孩会告诉你，一个有精神的人如何才能获得他的宽恕。

d’Artagnan colored and grew pale several times in reading this billet.
达达尼昂读到这篇文章时，脸色好几次变得苍白。

‘Oh, you love her still,’ said Kitty, who had not taken her eyes off the young man’s countenance for an instant.
“噢，你还爱她。”基蒂说道，她的目光一刻也没有从年轻人的脸上移开。

‘No, Kitty, you are mistaken. I do not love her, but I will avenge myself for her contempt.’
“不，基蒂，你错了。我不爱她，但我会为她的蔑视报仇。

‘Oh, yes, I know what sort of vengeance! You told me that!’
“哦，是的，我知道是什么样的复仇！你告诉我的！'

‘What matters it to you, Kitty? You know it is you alone whom I love.’
“这对你来说有什么重要的，基蒂？你知道我只爱你。

‘How can I know that?’
“我怎么知道呢？”

‘By the scorn I will throw upon her.’
“我将蔑视她。”

D’Artagnan took a pen and wrote:
达达尼昂拿起笔写道：

Madame, Until the present moment I could not believe that it was to me your first two letters were addressed, so unworthy did I feel myself of such an honor; besides, I was so seriously indisposed that I could not in any case have replied to them.
夫人，直到现在我都不敢相信您的前两封信是写给我的，我觉得自己不配得到这样的荣誉；此外，我的身体非常不适，无论如何我都无法回复他们。

But now I am forced to believe in the excess of your kindness, since not only your letter but your servant assures me that I have the good fortune to be beloved by you.
但现在我不得不相信你的仁慈，因为不仅你的信，而且你的仆人都向我保证，我有幸被你所爱。

She has no occasion to teach me the way in which a man of spirit may obtain his pardon. I will come and ask mine at eleven o’clock this evening.
她没有机会教我如何让一个有精神的人获得宽恕。今天晚上十一点我会来问我的。

To delay it a single day would be in my eyes now to commit a fresh offense.
现在，在我看来，拖延一天就等于犯下新的罪行。

From him whom you have rendered the happiest of men, Comte de Wardes
瓦尔德伯爵，您使他成为人类最幸福的人

This note was in the first place a forgery; it was likewise an indelicacy. It was even, according to our present manners, something like an infamous action; but at that period people did not manage affairs as they do today. Besides, d’Artagnan from her own admission knew Milady culpable of treachery in matters more important, and could entertain no respect for her. And yet, notwithstanding this want of respect, he felt an uncontrollable passion for this woman boiling in his veins—passion drunk with contempt; but passion or thirst, as the reader pleases.
这张纸条首先是伪造的；这同样是一种不雅行为。按照我们现在的习惯，这甚至是一种臭名昭著的行为。但当时人们并没有像今天那样处理事务。此外，达达尼昂从她自己的承认中知道，米莱迪在更重要的事情上犯有背叛罪，因此无法尊重她。然而，尽管缺乏尊重，他对这个女人却感到一种无法控制的激情在他的血管中沸腾——激情中充满了轻蔑；但激情或渴望，随读者的喜好而定。

D’Artagnan’s plan was very simple. By Kitty’s chamber he could gain that of her mistress. He would take advantage of the first moment of surprise, shame, and terror, to triumph over her. He might fail, but something must be left to chance. In eight days the campaign would open, and he would be compelled to leave Paris; d’Artagnan had no time for a prolonged love siege.
达达尼昂的计划非常简单。通过基蒂的房间，他可以得到她情妇的房间。他会利用第一时间的惊讶、羞耻和恐惧来战胜她。他可能会失败，但必须留点机会。八天后，战役即将开始，他将被迫离开巴黎。达达尼昂没有时间进行长期的爱情围攻。

‘There,’ said the young man, handing Kitty the letter sealed; ‘give that to Milady. It is the count’s reply.’
“好了，”年轻人说着，把密封好的信递给基蒂。 ‘把它交给米莱迪。这是伯爵的答复。

Poor Kitty became as pale as death; she suspected what the letter contained.
可怜的基蒂脸色苍白得像死人一样。她怀疑这封信的内容。

‘Listen, my dear girl,’ said d’Artagnan; ‘you cannot but perceive that all this must end, some way or other. Milady may discover that you gave the first billet to my lackey instead of to the count’s; that it is I who have opened the others which ought to have been opened by de Wardes. Milady will then turn you out of doors, and you know she is not the woman to limit her vengeance.’
“听着，我亲爱的姑娘，”达达尼昂说。 “你不得不意识到这一切都必须以某种方式结束。米莱迪可能会发现你把第一块住所给了我的仆人而不是伯爵的；是我打开了其他本应由德瓦尔德打开的东西。然后米莱迪会把你赶出家门，你知道她不是那个限制她复仇的女人。

‘Alas!’ said Kitty, ‘for whom have I exposed myself to all that?’
“唉！”基蒂说，“我为了谁而遭受这一切呢？”

‘For me, I well know, my sweet girl,’ said d’Artagnan. ‘But I am grateful, I swear to you.’
“对我来说，我很清楚，我可爱的女孩，”达达尼昂说。 “但我很感激，我向你发誓。”

‘But what does this note contain?’
“但是这张纸条上写的是什么？”

‘Milady will tell you.’
“米莱迪会告诉你的。”

‘Ah, you do not love me!’ cried Kitty, ‘and I am very wretched.’
“啊，你不爱我！”基蒂喊道，“我很可怜。”

To this reproach there is always one response which deludes women. D’Artagnan replied in such a manner that Kitty remained in her great delusion. Although she cried freely before deciding to transmit the letter to her mistress, she did at last so decide, which was all d’Artagnan wished. Finally he promised that he would leave her mistress’s presence at an early hour that evening, and that when he left the mistress he would ascend with the maid. This promise completed poor Kitty’s consolation.
对于这种指责，总有一种反应会迷惑女性。达达尼昂的回答让基蒂仍然沉浸在她的巨大错觉中。尽管她在决定将这封信转交给她的女主人之前曾大哭过一场，但她最终还是做出了这样的决定，这也是达达尼昂所希望的。最后他答应当天晚上一早就离开女主人，离开女主人后他会带着女仆上去。这个承诺完成了可怜的基蒂的安慰。

34 IN WHICH THE EQUIPMENT OF ARAMIS AND PORTHOS IS TREATED
34 其中处理 ARAMIS 和 PORTHOS 的设备

OF

Since the four friends had been each in search of his equipments, there had been no fixed meeting between them. They dined apart from one another, wherever they might happen to be, or rather where they could. Duty likewise on its part took a portion of that precious time which was gliding away so rapidly—only they had agreed to meet once a week, about one o’clock, at the residence of Athos, seeing that he, in agreement with the vow he had formed, did not pass over the threshold of his door.
由于四位好友各自都在寻找自己的装备，所以并没有固定的见面时间。无论他们在哪里，或者更确切地说，在他们可以的地方，他们都分开用餐。职责同样占用了宝贵的时间，而这段宝贵的时间很快就过去了——只是他们同意每周一次，大约一点钟，在阿多斯的住所见面，因为他同意誓言。他已经形成了，并没有跨过门槛。

This day of reunion was the same day as that on which Kitty came to find d’Artagnan. Soon as Kitty left him, d’Artagnan directed his steps toward the Rue Ferou.
这团聚的日子与基蒂来找达达尼昂的日子是同一天。基蒂一离开，达达尼昂就朝费鲁街走去。

He found Athos and Aramis philosophizing. Aramis had some slight inclination to resume the cassock. Athos, according to his system, neither encouraged nor dissuaded him. Athos believed that everyone should be left to his own free will. He never gave advice but when it was asked, and even then he required to be asked twice.
他发现阿托斯和阿拉米斯在思考哲学。阿拉米斯有点想重新穿上法衣。根据阿多斯的体系，他既没有鼓励也没有劝阻他。阿多斯认为每个人都应该有自己的自由意志。他从来不提供建议，除非有人问他，即使这样，他也需要被问两次。

‘People, in general,’ he said, ‘only ask advice not to follow it; or if they do follow it, it is for the sake of having someone to blame for having given it.’
“一般来说，人们只会寻求建议，而不是遵循建议；”或者如果他们确实遵循了它，那也是为了让某人因给予它而受到责备。

Porthos arrived a minute after d’Artagnan. The four friends were reunited.
波尔托斯比达达尼昂晚一分钟到达。四个好朋友又重聚了。

The four countenances expressed four different feelings: that of Porthos, tranquillity; that of d’Artagnan, hope; that of Aramis, uneasiness; that of Athos, carelessness.
四张脸表达了四种不同的感觉：波托斯的，平静；波托斯的，平静；达达尼昂的，希望；阿拉米斯的，不安；阿托斯的那句话，粗心大意。

At the end of a moment’s conversation, in which Porthos hinted that a lady of elevated rank had condescended to relieve him from his embarrassment, Mousqueton entered. He came to request his master to return to his lodgings, where his presence was urgent, as he piteously said.
一会儿谈话结束后，波尔托斯暗示一位地位较高的女士屈尊让他摆脱尴尬，穆斯克顿进来了。他来请求他的主人返回他的住所，正如他可怜兮兮地说的那样，他的出现很紧急。

‘Is it my equipment?’
“这是我的装备吗？”

‘Yes and no,’ replied Mousqueton.
“是的，也不是，”穆斯克顿回答道。

‘Well, but can’t you speak?’
“好吧，但是你不能说话吗？”

‘Come, monsieur.’
“来吧，先生。”

Porthos rose, saluted his friends, and followed Mousqueton. An instant after, Bazin made his appearance at the door.
波托斯起身，向他的朋友们致意，然后跟在穆斯克东后面。片刻之后，巴赞出现在门口。

‘What do you want with me, my friend?’ said Aramis, with that mildness of language which was observable in him every time that his ideas were directed toward the Church.
“我的朋友，你想对我做什么？”阿拉米斯说道，每次当他的想法指向教会时，他的语气都很温和。

‘A man wishes to see Monsieur at home,’ replied Bazin.
“有人希望在家里见到先生，”巴赞回答道。

‘A man! What man?’
‘一个男人！什么样的男人？'

‘A mendicant.’
“一个托钵僧。”

‘Give him alms, Bazin, and bid him pray for a poor sinner.’
“巴赞，请给他施舍，并请他为一个可怜的罪人祈祷。”

‘This mendicant insists upon speaking to you, and pretends that you will be very glad to see him.’
“这个托钵僧坚持要和你说话，并假装你会很高兴见到他。”

‘Has he sent no particular message for me?’
“他没有给我发什么特别的信息吗？”

‘Yes. If Monsieur Aramis hesitates to come,’ he said, ‘tell him I am from Tours.’
'是的。如果阿拉米斯先生犹豫要不要来，”他说，“告诉他我来自图尔。”

‘From Tours!’ cried Aramis. ‘A thousand pardons, gentlemen; but no doubt this man brings me the news I expected.’ And rising also, he went off at a quick pace. There remained Athos and d’Artagnan.
“来自图尔！”阿拉米斯喊道。 “一千个赦免，先生们；但毫无疑问，这个人给我带来了我所期待的消息。”他也站起来，快步走了出去。剩下阿多斯和达达尼昂。

‘I believe these fellows have managed their business. What do you think, d’Artagnan?’ said Athos.
“我相信这些人已经管理好了他们的生意。 “达达尼昂，你觉得怎么样？”阿托斯问道。

‘I know that Porthos was in a fair way,’ replied d’Artagnan; ‘and as to Aramis to tell you the truth, I have never been seriously uneasy on his account. But you, my dear Athos— you, who so generously distributed the Englishman’s pistoles, which were our legitimate property—what do you mean to do?’
“我知道波尔托斯是一个公平的人，”达达尼昂回答道。 “至于阿拉米斯，说实话，我从来没有因为他而感到严重不安。但是你，我亲爱的阿托斯——你如此慷慨地分发了英国人的手枪，这是我们的合法财产——你打算做什么？

‘I am satisfied with having killed that fellow, my boy, seeing that it is blessed bread to kill an Englishman; but if I had pocketed his pistoles, they would have weighed me down like a remorse.
“我很满足于杀死了那个家伙，我的孩子，因为杀死一个英国人是受祝福的面包；但如果我把他的手枪装进口袋，它们就会像悔恨一样压垮我。

‘Go to, my dear Athos; you have truly inconceivable ideas.’
“去吧，我亲爱的阿托斯；你的想法真是不可思议。”

‘Let it pass. What do you think of Monsieur de Treville telling me, when he did me the honor to call upon me yesterday, that you associated with the suspected English, whom the cardinal protects?’
‘就让它过去吧。德特雷维尔先生昨天有幸拜访我时告诉我，你与红衣主教保护的可疑英国人有联系，你对此有何看法？

‘That is to say, I visit an Englishwoman—the one I named.’
“也就是说，我拜访了一位英国女人——我指定的那个女人。”

‘Oh, ay! the fair woman on whose account I gave you advice, which naturally you took care not to adopt.’
‘哦，哎呀！我为这位美丽的女人向你提出了建议，你自然小心翼翼地不采纳。

‘I gave you my reasons.’
“我给了你我的理由。”

‘Yes; you look there for your outfit, I think you said.’
'是的; “你去那里看看你的衣服，我想你是这么说的。”

‘Not at all. I have acquired certain knowledge that that woman was concerned in the abduction of Madame Bonacieux.’
'一点也不。我已经了解到，那个女人参与了博纳瑟夫人的绑架事件。”

‘Yes, I understand now: to find one woman, you court another. It is the longest road, but certainly the most amusing.’
“是的，我现在明白了：要找到一个女人，你就要追求另一个女人。这是最长的路，但肯定是最有趣的。”

D’Artagnan was on the point of telling Athos all; but one consideration restrained him. Athos was a gentleman, punctilious in points of honor; and there were in the plan which our lover had devised for Milady, he was sure, certain things that would not obtain the assent of this Puritan. He was therefore silent; and as Athos was the least inquisitive of any man on earth, d’Artagnan’s confidence stopped there. We will therefore leave the two friends, who had nothing important to say to each other, and follow Aramis.
达达尼昂正想把一切都告诉阿托斯。但有一个考虑限制了他。阿多斯是一位绅士，在荣誉问题上很挑剔。他确信，在我们的爱人为米莱迪制定的计划中，有些事情不会得到这位清教徒的同意。于是他沉默了。由于阿多斯是世界上最不好奇的人，达达尼昂的信心就到此为止了。因此，我们将离开这两个彼此没什么重要可说的朋友，跟随阿拉米斯。

Upon being informed that the person who wanted to speak to him came from Tours, we have seen with what rapidity the young man followed, or rather went before, Bazin; he ran without stopping from the Rue Ferou to the Rue de Vaugirard. On entering he found a man of short stature and intelligent eyes, but covered with rags.
当得知想要与他交谈的人来自图尔时，我们看到这个年轻人以多么快的速度跟随，或者更确切地说，走在巴赞之前；他不停地从费鲁街奔向沃日拉尔街。一进门，他就发现一个身材矮小、目光聪慧的男人，却衣衫褴褛。

‘You have asked for me?’ said the Musketeer.
“你找过我吗？”火枪手说道。

‘I wish to speak with Monsieur Aramis. Is that your name, monsieur?’
“我想和阿拉米斯先生谈谈。先生，这是您的名字吗？

‘My very own. You have brought me something?’
‘我自己的。你给我带了东西吗？

‘Yes, if you show me a certain embroidered handkerchief.’
“是的，如果你给我看一块绣花手帕的话。”

‘Here it is,’ said Aramis, taking a small key from his breast and opening a little ebony box inlaid with mother of pearl, ‘here it is. Look.’
“就是这里了，”阿拉米斯说着，从怀里拿出一把小钥匙，打开了一个镶嵌着珍珠母贝的小乌木盒子，“就是这里了。”看。'

‘That is right,’ replied the mendicant; ‘dismiss your lackey.’
“是的，”托钵僧回答道。 “解雇你的走狗。”

In fact, Bazin, curious to know what the mendicant could want with his master, kept pace with him as well as he could, and arrived almost at the same time he did; but his quickness was not of much use to him. At the hint from the mendicant his master made him a sign to retire, and he was obliged to obey.
事实上，巴赞很好奇这位托钵僧想要他的师父做什么，他尽可能地跟上他，几乎同时到达。但他的速度对他来说并没有多大用处。在托钵僧的暗示下，他的师父示意他退隐，他只得服从。

Bazin gone, the mendicant cast a rapid glance around him in order to be sure that nobody could either see or hear him, and opening his ragged vest, badly held together by a leather strap, he began to rip the upper part of his doublet, from which he drew a letter.
巴赞走后，托钵僧迅速扫视四周，以确保没有人能看到或听到他的声音，然后打开他那件破烂的背心，用皮带紧紧地固定在一起，他开始撕开他的上衣的上半部分，他从中抽出了一封信。

Aramis uttered a cry of joy at the sight of the seal, kissed the superscription with an almost religious respect, and opened the epistle, which contained what follows:
阿拉米斯看到印章时发出了一声喜悦的叫声，以近乎宗教般的敬意亲吻了上面的铭文，然后打开了这封信，其中包含以下内容：

‘My Friend, it is the will of fate that we should be still for some time separated; but the delightful days of youth are not lost beyond return. Perform your duty in camp; I will do mine elsewhere. Accept that which the bearer brings you; make the campaign like a handsome true gentleman, and think of me, who kisses tenderly your black eyes.
“我的朋友，命运的安排让我们暂时分开；但青春的美好时光并不会一去不复返。在营地履行职责；我会在别处做我的。接受携带者带给您的东西；让竞选活动像一位英俊的真正绅士一样，想想我，温柔地亲吻你的黑眼睛。

‘Adieu; or rather, AU REVOIR.’
再见；或者更确切地说，AU REVOIR。

The mendicant continued to rip his garments; and drew from amid his rags a hundred and fifty Spanish double pistoles, which he laid down on the table; then he opened the door, bowed, and went out before the young man, stupefied by his letter, had ventured to address a word to him.
托钵僧继续撕扯他的衣服。他从破烂的衣服里掏出一百五十支西班牙双手枪，放在桌子上。然后他打开门，鞠了一躬，在年轻人被他的信惊呆了之前，他就出去了，还没有敢对他说一句话。

Aramis then reperused the letter, and perceived a postscript:
阿拉米斯随后重读了这封信，并看到了附言：

P.S. You may behave politely to the bearer, who is a count and a grandee of Spain!
附：您可以对持票人保持礼貌，他是西班牙的伯爵和贵族！

‘Golden dreams!’ cried Aramis. ‘Oh, beautiful life! Yes, we are young; yes, we shall yet have happy days! My love, my blood, my life! all, all, all, are thine, my adored mistress!’
“金色的梦想！”阿拉米斯喊道。 ‘哦，美丽的生活！是的，我们还年轻；是的，我们还会有幸福的日子！我的爱，我的血，我的生命！一切，一切，一切，都是你的，我敬爱的女主人！

And he kissed the letter with passion, without even vouchsafing a look at the gold which sparkled on the table.
他热情地亲吻了这封信，甚至没有看一眼桌上闪闪发光的金色。

Bazin scratched at the door, and as Aramis had no longer any reason to exclude him, he bade him come in.
巴赞挠了挠门，阿拉米斯没有理由拒绝他，于是请他进来。

Bazin was stupefied at the sight of the gold, and forgot that he came to announce d’Artagnan, who, curious to know who the mendicant could be, came to Aramis on leaving Athos.
巴赞一看到金子就惊呆了，忘记了他是来通知达达尼昂的，达达尼昂好奇地想知道这个托钵僧是谁，于是离开阿索斯来到阿拉米斯。

Now, as d’Artagnan used no ceremony with Aramis, seeing that Bazin forgot to announce him, he announced himself.
现在，达达尼昂对阿拉米斯没有采取任何仪式，看到巴赞忘记宣布他的消息，他就宣布了自己的消息。

‘The devil! my dear Aramis,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘if these are the prunes that are sent to you from Tours, I beg you will make my compliments to the gardener who gathers them.’
'恶魔！我亲爱的阿拉米斯，”达达尼昂说，“如果这些李子是从图尔寄给您的，我请求您向采摘这些李子的园丁致意。”

‘You are mistaken, friend d’Artagnan,’ said Aramis, always on his guard; ‘this is from my publisher, who has just sent me the price of that poem in one-syllable verse which I began yonder.’
“你错了，达达尼昂朋友，”阿拉米斯说道，他始终保持警惕。 “这是我的出版商寄来的，他刚刚给我寄来了我在那边开始写的那首单音节诗的价格。”

‘Ah, indeed,’ said d’Artagnan. ‘Well, your publisher is very generous, my dear Aramis, that’s all I can say.’
“啊，确实如此，”达达尼昂说。 “嗯，你们的出版商非常慷慨，亲爱的阿拉米斯，我只能说这么多。”

‘How, monsieur?’ cried Bazin, ‘a poem sell so dear as that! It is incredible! Oh, monsieur, you can write as much as you like; you may become equal to Monsieur de Voiture and Monsieur de Benserade. I like that. A poet is as good as an abbe. Ah! Monsieur Aramis, become a poet, I beg of you.’
“怎么，先生？”巴赞喊道，“一首诗卖得这么贵！”不可思议！哦，先生，您想写多少就写多少；你可能会变得与德沃伊图尔先生和德本塞拉德先生平起平坐。我喜欢。诗人和神父一样优秀。啊!阿拉米斯先生，成为一名诗人，我请求你。

‘Bazin, my friend,’ said Aramis, ‘I believe you meddle with my conversation.’
“巴赞，我的朋友，”阿拉米斯说，“我相信你插手了我的谈话。”

Bazin perceived he was wrong; he bowed and went out.
巴赞意识到自己错了。他鞠了一躬，然后出去了。

‘Ah!’ said d’Artagnan with a smile, ‘you sell your productions at their weight in gold. You are very fortunate, my friend; but take care or you will lose that letter which is peeping from your doublet, and which also comes, no doubt, from your publisher.’
“啊！”达达尼昂微笑着说，“你的产品是按黄金重量出售的。”你很幸运，我的朋友；但要小心，否则你会丢失那封从你的上衣里偷看出来的信，毫无疑问，这封信也是来自你的出版商的。

Aramis blushed to the eyes, crammed in the letter, and re-buttoned his doublet.
阿拉米斯脸红了，把信塞进信里，重新扣上上衣的扣子。

‘My dear d’Artagnan,’ said he, ‘if you please, we will join our friends; as I am rich, we will today begin to dine together again, expecting that you will be rich in your turn.’
“我亲爱的达达尼昂，”他说，“如果您愿意的话，我们就和我们的朋友们一起去吧；因为我很有钱，所以今天我们又开始一起吃饭，期待轮到你也有钱了。

‘My faith!’ said d’Artagnan, with great pleasure. ‘It is long since we have had a good dinner; and I, for my part, have a somewhat hazardous expedition for this evening, and shall not be sorry, I confess, to fortify myself with a few glasses of good old Burgundy.’
“我的信仰！”达达尼昂非常高兴地说。 “我们已经很久没有吃过一顿丰盛的晚餐了；就我而言，今晚要进行一次有点危险的探险，我承认，我不会后悔喝几杯古老的勃艮第葡萄酒来增强自己。

‘Agreed, as to the old Burgundy; I have no objection to that,’ said Aramis, from whom the letter and the gold had removed, as by magic, his ideas of conversion.
“同意，至于老勃艮第；我对此并不反对。”阿拉米斯说，这封信和金子像魔法一样从他身上消除了皈依的想法。

And having put three or four double pistoles into his pocket to answer the needs of the moment, he placed the others in the ebony box, inlaid with mother of pearl, in which was the famous handkerchief which served him as a talisman.
为了满足当时的需要，他把三四把双手枪放进口袋里，然后把其他的放在镶有珍珠母的乌木盒子里，里面装着那条著名的手帕，可以作为他的护身符。

The two friends repaired to Athos’s, and he, faithful to his vow of not going out, took upon him to order dinner to be brought to them. As he was perfectly acquainted with the details of gastronomy, d’Artagnan and Aramis made no objection to abandoning this important care to him.
两个朋友到了阿多斯家，阿多斯恪守自己不出门的誓言，请他给他们送晚饭。由于他非常熟悉美食的细节，达达尼昂和阿拉米斯并不反对将这项重要的工作交给他。

They went to find Porthos, and at the corner of the Rue Bac met Mousqueton, who, with a most pitiable air, was driving before him a mule and a horse.
他们去找波尔托斯，在巴克街的拐角处遇见了穆斯克东，穆斯克东神态可怜，在他前面赶着一头骡子和一匹马。

D’Artagnan uttered a cry of surprise, which was not quite free from joy.
达达尼昂惊讶地叫了一声，其中不乏喜悦。

‘Ah, my yellow horse,’ cried he. ‘Aramis, look at that horse!’
“啊，我的黄马，”他喊道。 “阿拉米斯，看看那匹马！”

‘Oh, the frightful brute!’ said Aramis.
“哦，可怕的畜生！”阿拉米斯说道。

‘Ah, my dear,’ replied d’Artagnan, ‘upon that very horse I came to Paris.’
“啊，亲爱的，”达达尼昂回答道，“我就是骑着那匹马来到巴黎的。”

‘What, does Monsieur know this horse?’ said Mousqueton.
“什么，先生认识这匹马吗？”穆斯克顿问道。

‘It is of an original color,’ said Aramis; ‘I never saw one with such a hide in my life.’
“它是原来的颜色，”阿拉米斯说。 “我一生中从未见过有这样的皮肤的人。”

‘I can well believe it,’ replied d’Artagnan, ‘and that was why I got three crowns for him. It must have been for his hide, for, CERTES, the carcass is not worth eighteen livres. But how did this horse come into your bands, Mousqueton?’
“我完全相信这一点，”达达尼昂回答道，“这就是我为他赢得三冠的原因。”一定是为了他的皮，因为，CERTES，尸体不值十八里弗。但这匹马是怎么进入你的乐队的，穆斯克顿？

‘Pray,’ said the lackey, ‘say nothing about it, monsieur; it is a frightful trick of the husband of our duchess!’
“请您不要再说这件事，先生，”仆人说。这是我们公爵夫人的丈夫的可怕伎俩！”

‘How is that, Mousqueton?’
“怎么样，穆斯克东？”

‘Why, we are looked upon with a rather favorable eye by a lady of quality, the Duchesse de—but, your pardon; my master has commanded me to be discreet. She had forced us to accept a little souvenir, a magnificent Spanish GENET and an Andalusian mule, which were beautiful to look upon. The husband heard of the affair; on their way he confiscated the two magnificent beasts which were being sent to us, and substituted these horrible animals.’
“哎呀，一位高贵的女士，公爵夫人，对我们投来了相当好感的目光——但是，请原谅；我的主人吩咐我要谨慎。她强迫我们接受了一份小纪念品，一头宏伟的西班牙基因和一头安达卢西亚骡子，它们看起来很漂亮。丈夫听说了这件事；在路上，他没收了送到我们这里的两只巨大的野兽，并用这些可怕的动物代替了。

‘Which you are taking back to him?’ said d’Artagnan.
“你要带回给他什么？”达达尼昂说。

‘Exactly!’ replied Mousqueton. ‘You may well believe that we will not accept such steeds as these in exchange for those which had been promised to us.’
“完全正确！”穆斯克顿回答道。 “你很可能相信，我们不会接受这样的战马来换取承诺给我们的战马。”

‘No, PARDIEU; though I should like to have seen Porthos on my yellow horse. That would give me an idea of how I looked when I arrived in Paris. But don’t let us hinder you, Mousqueton; go and perform your master’s orders. Is he at home?’
“不，帕迪厄；虽然我很想看到波尔托斯骑在我的黄马上。这会让我了解我到达巴黎时的样子。但别让我们妨碍你，穆斯克东；去执行主人的命令吧。他在家吗？

‘Yes, monsieur,’ said Mousqueton, ‘but in a very ill humor. Get up!’
“是的，先生，”穆斯克顿说，“但是心情很不好。”起床！'

He continued his way toward the Quai des Grands Augustins, while the two friends went to ring at the bell of the unfortunate Porthos. He, having seen them crossing the yard, took care not to answer, and they rang in vain.
他继续朝奥古斯丁大码头走去，而两个朋友则去按不幸的波尔托斯的门铃。他看到他们穿过院子，小心翼翼地不去接听，但他们却徒劳地按了门铃。

Meanwhile Mousqueton continued on his way, and crossing the Pont Neuf, still driving the two sorry animals before him, he reached the Rue aux Ours. Arrived there, he fastened, according to the orders of his master, both horse and mule to the knocker of the procurator’s door; then, without taking any thought for their future, he returned to Porthos, and told him that his commission was completed.
与此同时，穆斯克顿继续赶路，穿过新桥，仍然赶着前面那两只可怜的动物，到达了我们的街。到了那里，他按照主人的命令，把马和骡子拴在检察官门的门环上。然后，他没有考虑他们的未来，回到波托斯，告诉他他的任务已经完成。

In a short time the two unfortunate beasts, who had not eaten anything since the morning, made such a noise in raising and letting fall the knocker that the procurator ordered his errand boy to go and inquire in the neighborhood to whom this horse and mule belonged.
不一会儿，这两只不幸的野兽从早上起就没有吃过任何东西，举起和放下门环时发出很大的噪音，检察官命令他的差役去附近打听这匹马和骡子是谁的。 。

Mme. Coquenard recognized her present, and could not at first comprehend this restitution; but the visit of Porthos soon enlightened her. The anger which fired the eyes of the Musketeer, in spite of his efforts to suppress it, terrified his sensitive inamorata. In fact, Mousqueton had not concealed from his master that he had met d’Artagnan and Aramis, and that d’Artagnan in the yellow horse had recognized the Bearnese pony upon which he had come to Paris, and which he had sold for three crowns.
女士。科克纳尔认出了她的礼物，但一开始无法理解这种恢复。但波尔托斯的来访很快让她明白了。尽管火枪手极力压抑，但他眼中的怒火还是让他敏感的情人感到恐惧。事实上，穆斯克东并没有向他的主人隐瞒他见过达达尼昂和阿拉米斯，而且骑着黄马的达达尼昂认出了他骑着这匹小马来到巴黎，并以三克朗的价格卖掉了这匹小马。 。

Porthos went away after having appointed a meeting with the procurator’s wife in the cloister of St. Magloire. The procurator, seeing he was going, invited him to dinner—an invitation which the Musketeer refused with a majestic air.
波托斯约好在圣马格洛瓦尔修道院与检察官的妻子会面后就离开了。检察官见他要走，就邀请他去吃晚饭，但火枪手却一本正经地拒绝了。

Mme. Coquenard repaired trembling to the cloister of St. Magloire, for she guessed the reproaches that awaited her there; but she was fascinated by the lofty airs of Porthos.
女士。科克纳德颤抖着回到圣马格洛瓦尔修道院，因为她猜到那里等待着她的将是耻辱。但她却被波尔托斯的高高在上的气质所吸引。

All that which a man wounded in his self-love could let fall in the shape of imprecations and reproaches upon the head of a woman Porthos let fall upon the bowed head of the procurator’s wife.
一个男人在自爱中受到伤害的一切，都可以以咒骂和责备的形式落在一个女人的头上，波托斯则落在检察官妻子低下的头上。

‘Alas,’ said she, ‘I did all for the best! One of our clients is a horsedealer; he owes money to the office, and is backward in his pay. I took the mule and the horse for what he owed us; he assured me that they were two noble steeds.’
“唉，”她说，“我所做的一切都是为了最好！”我们的一位客户是一位马商；他欠办公室钱，而且拖欠工资。我拿走了骡子和马，作为他欠我们的债；他向我保证它们是两匹高贵的骏马。

‘Well, madame,’ said Porthos, ‘if he owed you more than five crowns, your horsedealer is a thief.’
“好吧，夫人，”波托斯说，“如果他欠你的钱超过五克朗，那么你的马贩子就是小偷。”

‘There is no harm in trying to buy things cheap, Monsieur Porthos,’ said the procurator’s wife, seeking to excuse herself.
“波托斯先生，买便宜的东西总没有坏处。”检察官的妻子试图为自己辩解。

‘No, madame; but they who so assiduously try to buy things cheap ought to permit others to seek more generous friends.’ And Porthos, turning on his heel, made a step to retire.
“不，夫人；但那些如此孜孜不倦地想买便宜东西的人应该允许其他人寻找更慷慨的朋友。”波尔托斯转身，迈出了退休的一步。

‘Monsieur Porthos! Monsieur Porthos!’ cried the procurator’s wife. ‘I have been wrong; I see it. I ought not to have driven a bargain when it was to equip a cavalier like you.’
“波尔托斯先生！波托斯先生！”检察官的妻子喊道。 ‘我错了；我看到了。当我要装备像你这样的骑士时，我不应该讨价还价。

Porthos, without reply, retreated a second step. The procurator’s wife fancied she saw him in a brilliant cloud, all surrounded by duchesses and marchionesses, who cast bags of money at his feet.
波托斯没有回答，退了两步。检察官的妻子仿佛看到他在一片灿烂的云彩中，周围都是公爵夫人和侯爵夫人，她们把一袋袋的钱扔在他的脚下。

‘Stop, in the name of heaven, Monsieur Porthos!’ cried she. ‘Stop, and let us talk.’
“停止吧，以天堂的名义，波托斯先生！”她喊道。 “停下来，让我们谈谈。”

‘Talking with you brings me misfortune,’ said Porthos.
“和你说话会给我带来不幸，”波托斯说。

‘But, tell me, what do you ask?’
“但是，告诉我，你想问什么？”

‘Nothing; for that amounts to the same thing as if I asked you for something.’
'没有什么;因为这相当于我向你要东西一样。

The procurator’s wife hung upon the arm of Porthos, and in the violence of her grief she cried out, ‘Monsieur Porthos, I am ignorant of all such matters! How should I know what a horse is? How should I know what horse furniture is?’
检察官的妻子挽着波尔托斯的手臂，悲痛欲绝地喊道：“波尔托斯先生，我对这些事情一无所知！我怎么知道马是什么？我怎么知道什么是马家具？

‘You should have left it to me, then, madame, who know what they are; but you wished to be frugal, and consequently to lend at usury.’
“那么，夫人，你应该把它留给我，因为我知道它们是什么；但你想节俭，因此放高利贷。

‘It was wrong, Monsieur Porthos; but I will repair that wrong, upon my word of honor.’
“这是错误的，波托斯先生；但我会以我的名誉担保来​​弥补这个错误。”

‘How so?’ asked the Musketeer.
“怎么会这样呢？”火枪手问道。

‘Listen. This evening M. Coquenard is going to the house of the Due de Chaulnes, who has sent for him. It is for a consultation, which will last three hours at least. Come! We shall be alone, and can make up our accounts.’
'听。今天晚上，科奎纳德先生要去杜·德·肖恩 (Due de Chaulnes) 家，他已经派人来接他了。这是一个咨询，至少要三个小时。来！我们将独自一人，可以算账。

‘In good time. Now you talk, my dear.’
” 时机正好。现在你说话了，亲爱的。

‘You pardon me?’
“你原谅我吗？”

‘We shall see,’ said Porthos, majestically; and the two separated saying, ‘Till this evening.’
“我们拭目以待吧，”波托斯威严地说。两人分开说：“到今天晚上为止。”

‘The devil!’ thought Porthos, as he walked away, ‘it appears I am getting nearer to Monsieur Coquenard’s strongbox at last.’
“天哪！”波尔托斯一边走一边想，“看来我终于接近科克纳尔先生的保险箱了。”

35 A GASCON A MATCH FOR CUPID
35 加斯康与丘比特相配

The evening so impatiently waited for by Porthos and by d’Artagnan at last arrived.
波尔托斯和达达尼昂焦急地等待着的夜晚终于到来了。

As was his custom, d’Artagnan presented himself at Milady’s at about nine o’clock. He found her in a charming humor. Never had he been so well received. Our Gascon knew, by the first glance of his eye, that his billet had been delivered, and that this billet had had its effect.
按照惯例，达达尼昂九点钟左右来到了米莱迪家。他发现她充满了迷人的幽默感。他从来没有受到如此热烈的欢迎。我们的加斯科涅人第一眼就知道他的钢坯已经交付，而且这个钢坯已经发挥了作用。

Kitty entered to bring some sherbet. Her mistress put on a charming face, and smiled on her graciously; but alas! the poor girl was so sad that she did not even notice Milady’s condescension.
凯蒂进来拿了一些果子露。她的女主人摆出一张迷人的脸，对她亲切地微笑；可惜！可怜的女孩太伤心了，甚至没有注意到米莱迪的居高临下。

D’Artagnan looked at the two women, one after the other, and was forced to acknowledge that in his opinion Dame Nature had made a mistake in their formation. To the great lady she had given a heart vile and venal; to the SOUBRETTE she had given the heart of a duchess.
达达尼昂一一看着这两个女人，被迫承认，在他看来，大自然在她们的阵型上犯了一个错误。她给这位伟大的女士一颗卑鄙、贪婪的心。她给了女主角一颗公爵夫人的心。

At ten o’clock Milady began to appear restless. D’Artagnan knew what she wanted. She looked at the clock, rose, reseated herself, smiled at d’Artagnan with an air which said, ‘You are very amiable, no doubt, but you would be charming if you would only depart.’
十点钟，米莱迪开始显得焦躁不安。达达尼昂知道她想要什么。她看了看时钟，站起身来，重新坐了下来，对达达尼昂微笑，神情仿佛在说：“毫无疑问，你非常和蔼可亲，但如果你能离开，那就太迷人了。”

D’Artagnan rose and took his hat; Milady gave him her hand to kiss. The young man felt her press his hand, and comprehended that this was a sentiment, not of coquetry, but of gratitude because of his departure.
达达尼昂站起来，拿起帽子。米莱迪伸出手来亲吻他。少年感觉到她握着他的手，明白这是一种感情，不是撒娇，而是对自己离开的感激。

‘She loves him devilishly,’ he murmured. Then he went out.
“她爱得发狂，”他低声说道。然后他就出去了。

This time Kitty was nowhere waiting for him; neither in the antechamber, nor in the corridor, nor beneath the great door. It was necessary that d’Artagnan should find alone the staircase and the little chamber. She heard him enter, but she did not raise her head. The young man went to her and took her hands; then she sobbed aloud.
这次基蒂没有在等他。既不在前厅，也不在走廊，也不在大门下面。达达尼昂必须单独找到楼梯和小房间。她听见他进来了，但没有抬起头。年轻人走到她身边，握住了她的手。然后她放声哭泣。

As d’Artagnan had presumed, on receiving his letter, Milady in a delirium of joy had told her servant everything; and by way of recompense for the manner in which she had this time executed the commission, she had given Kitty a purse.
正如达达尼昂所推测的那样，米拉迪收到信后欣喜若狂，把一切都告诉了她的仆人。为了补偿她这次执行任务的方式，她送给基蒂一个钱包。

Returning to her own room, Kitty had thrown the purse into a corner, where it lay open, disgorging three or four gold pieces on the carpet. The poor girl, under the caresses of d’Artagnan, lifted her head. D’Artagnan himself was frightened by the change in her countenance. She joined her hands with a suppliant air, but without venturing to speak a word. As little sensitive as was the heart of d’Artagnan, he was touched by this mute sorrow; but he held too tenaciously to his projects, above all to this one, to change the program which he had laid out in advance. He did not therefore allow her any hope that he would flinch; only he represented his action as one of simple vengeance.
回到自己的房间，基蒂把钱包扔到了角落里，钱包打开了，三四块金币掉在地毯上。可怜的女孩在达达尼昂的爱抚下抬起了头。达达尼昂本人也被她脸色的变化吓坏了。她双手合十，一副恳求的样子，但没有冒险说一句话。达达尼昂的心虽然不太敏感，却被这种无声的悲伤所感动。但他太执着于自己的计划，尤其是这个计划，以至于无法改变他事先制定的计划。因此，他不希望她有任何退缩的希望。只是他将自己的行为描述为一种简单的复仇。

For the rest this vengeance was very easy; for Milady, doubtless to conceal her blushes from her lover, had ordered Kitty to extinguish all the lights in the apartment, and even in the little chamber itself. Before daybreak M. de Wardes must take his departure, still in obscurity.
对于其他人来说，这种报复是很容易的。因为米莱迪无疑是为了向她的爱人掩饰自己的脸红，她命令基蒂熄灭公寓里的所有灯，甚至是小房间里的灯。天亮之前，德瓦尔德先生必须离开，但仍然默默无闻。

Presently they heard Milady retire to her room. D’Artagnan slipped into the wardrobe. Hardly was he concealed when the little bell sounded. Kitty went to her mistress, and did not leave the door open; but the partition was so thin that one could hear nearly all that passed between the two women.
不久，他们听到米莱迪回到自己的房间。达达尼昂溜进衣柜。他刚藏好，小铃就响了。基蒂去找她的女主人，并没有让门开着。但隔板太薄了，两个女人之间的谈话声几乎都能听见。

Milady seemed overcome with joy, and made Kitty repeat the smallest details of the pretended interview of the soubrette with de Wardes when he received the letter; how he had responded; what was the expression of his face; if he seemed very amorous. And to all these questions poor Kitty, forced to put on a pleasant face, responded in a stifled voice whose dolorous accent her mistress did not however remark, solely because happiness is egotistical.
米莱迪似乎欣喜若狂，当德瓦尔德收到信时，她让凯蒂重复了假装与德瓦尔德进行采访的最细微的细节。他的反应如何；他脸上的表情是什么？如果他看起来很多情的话。对于所有这些问题，可怜的基蒂被迫摆出一副愉快的表情，用一种压抑的声音回答，她的女主人没有注意到她的悲伤口音，仅仅是因为幸福是自私的。

Finally, as the hour for her interview with the count approached, Milady had everything about her darkened, and ordered Kitty to return to her own chamber, and introduce de Wardes whenever he presented himself.
最后，随着与伯爵会面的时间临近，米莱迪把自己的一切都暗了下来，并命令基蒂回到自己的房间，每当德瓦尔德出现时，都要介绍他。

Kitty’s detention was not long. Hardly had d’Artagnan seen, through a crevice in his closet, that the whole apartment was in obscurity, than he slipped out of his concealment, at the very moment when Kitty reclosed the door of communication.
基蒂被拘留的时间并不长。达达尼昂刚从壁橱的缝隙中看到整个公寓都处于朦胧之中，就在基蒂重新关上通讯门的那一刻，他从隐蔽处溜了出来。

‘What is that noise?’ demanded Milady.
“那是什么声音？”米莱迪问道。

‘It is I,’ said d’Artagnan in a subdued voice, ‘I, the Comte de Wardes.’
“是我，”达达尼昂低声说道，“我，瓦尔德伯爵。”

‘Oh, my God, my God!’ murmured Kitty, ‘he has not even waited for the hour he himself named!’
“哦，我的上帝，我的上帝！”基蒂低声说道，“他甚至没有等到他自己命名的时刻！”

‘Well,’ said Milady, in a trembling voice, ‘why do you not enter? Count, Count,’ added she, ‘you know that I wait for you.’
“好吧，”米莱迪声音颤抖地说，“你为什么不进去呢？伯爵，伯爵，”她补充道，“你知道我在等你。”

At this appeal d’Artagnan drew Kitty quietly away, and slipped into the chamber.
听到这个请求，达达尼昂悄悄地把基蒂拉开，溜进了房间。

If rage or sorrow ever torture the heart, it is when a lover receives under a name which is not his own protestations of love addressed to his happy rival. D’Artagnan was in a dolorous situation which he had not foreseen. Jealousy gnawed his heart; and he suffered almost as much as poor Kitty, who at that very moment was crying in the next chamber.
如果说愤怒或悲伤曾经折磨过心灵，那就是当一个爱人以一个不是他自己向他快乐的对手表达爱意的名字时。达达尼昂正处于一种他没有预见到的悲惨境地。嫉妒侵蚀着他的心；他几乎和可怜的基蒂一样痛苦，就在那一刻，基蒂正在隔壁房间里哭泣。

‘Yes, Count,’ said Milady, in her softest voice, and pressing his hand in her own, ‘I am happy in the love which your looks and your words have expressed to me every time we have met. I also—I love you. Oh, tomorrow, tomorrow, I must have some pledge from you which will prove that you think of me; and that you may not forget me, take this!’ and she slipped a ring from her finger onto d’Artagnan’s. d’Artagnan remembered having seen this ring on the finger of Milady; it was a magnificent sapphire, encircled with brilliants.
“是的，伯爵，”米莱迪用最温柔的声音说道，并把他的手握在自己手里，“每次我们见面时，你的眼神和言语都向我表达了爱意，我感到很高兴。我也爱你。噢，明天，明天，我一定要得到你的保证，以证明你在想我；带着这个，你就不会忘记我了！”说完，她把一枚戒指从手指上套到了达达尼昂的手指上。达达尼昂记得曾在米莱迪的手指上见过这枚戒指。那是一颗华丽的蓝宝石，周围镶满了钻石。

The first movement of d’Artagnan was to return it, but Milady added, ‘No, no! Keep that ring for love of me. Besides, in accepting it,’ she added, in a voice full of emotion, ‘you render me a much greater service than you imagine.’
达达尼昂的第一个动作就是把它还回去，但米莱迪补充道：“不，不！为了爱我，请保留那枚戒指。此外，在接受它的过程中，”她用充满感情的声音补充道，“你为我提供的服务比你想象的要大得多。”

‘This woman is full of mysteries,’ murmured d’Artagnan to himself. At that instant he felt himself ready to reveal all. He even opened his mouth to tell Milady who he was, and with what a revengeful purpose he had come; but she added, ‘Poor angel, whom that monster of a Gascon barely failed to kill.’
“这个女人充满了谜团。”达达尼昂自言自语道。那一刻，他觉得自己已经准备好揭露一切了。他甚至张开嘴告诉米莱迪他是谁，以及他是带着怎样的报复目的而来的。但她补充道，“可怜的天使，那个加斯科涅怪物差点没能杀死他。”

The monster was himself.
那个怪物就是他自己。

‘Oh,’ continued Milady, ‘do your wounds still make you suffer?’
“哦，”米莱迪继续说道，“你的伤口还让你痛苦吗？”

‘Yes, much,’ said d’Artagnan, who did not well know how to answer.
“是的，很多。”达达尼昂说，他不知道该如何回答。

‘Be tranquil,’ murmured Milady; ‘I will avenge you—and cruelly!’
“保持安静，”米莱迪低声说道。 “我会为你报仇——而且是残酷的！”

‘PESTE!’ said d’Artagnan to himself, ‘the moment for confidences has not yet come.’
“哎呀！”达达尼昂自言自语道，“吐露心声的时刻还没有到来。”

It took some time for d’Artagnan to resume this little dialogue; but then all the ideas of vengeance which he had brought with him had completely vanished. This woman exercised over him an unaccountable power; he hated and adored her at the same time. He would not have believed that two sentiments so opposite could dwell in the same heart, and by their union constitute a passion so strange, and as it were, diabolical.
达达尼昂花了一些时间才恢复这个简短的对话。但随后他身上所有的复仇念头就完全消失了。这个女人对他行使着一种难以解释的力量。他既恨又爱她。他不会相信，两种如此相反的情感会存在于同一颗心中，而且它们的结合会构成一种如此奇怪、甚至可以说是恶魔般的激情。

Presently it sounded one o’clock. It was necessary to separate. D’Artagnan at the moment of quitting Milady felt only the liveliest regret at the parting; and as they addressed each other in a reciprocally passionate adieu, another interview was arranged for the following week.
不久，钟声敲响了一点。有必要分开。达达尼昂在离开米莱迪的那一刻，只感到最强烈的离别遗憾。当他们互相热情地告别时，安排了下周的另一次采访。

Poor Kitty hoped to speak a few words to d’Artagnan when he passed through her chamber; but Milady herself reconducted him through the darkness, and only quit him at the staircase.
可怜的基蒂希望当达达尼昂经过她的房间时能跟他说几句话。但米莱迪亲自带他穿过黑暗，只是在楼梯口才让他离开。

The next morning d’Artagnan ran to find Athos. He was engaged in an adventure so singular that he wished for counsel. He therefore told him all.
第二天早上，达达尼昂跑去找阿托斯。他正在进行一次如此奇特的冒险，因此他希望得到建议。于是他就把一切都告诉了他。

‘Your Milady,’ said he, ‘appears to be an infamous creature, but not the less you have done wrong to deceive her. In one fashion or another you have a terrible enemy on your hands.’
“您的夫人，”他说，“看来是个臭名昭著的人物，但您欺骗她的行为却是错误的。以某种方式，你手上有一个可怕的敌人。

While thus speaking Athos regarded with attention the sapphire set with diamonds which had taken, on d’Artagnan’s finger, the place of the queen’s ring, carefully kept in a casket.
阿托斯一边说着，一边注视着达达尼昂手指上镶嵌着钻石的蓝宝石，这颗蓝宝石取代了王后戒指的位置，小心翼翼地保存在棺材里。

‘You notice my ring?’ said the Gascon, proud to display so rich a gift in the eyes of his friends.
“你注意到我的戒指了吗？”加斯科涅人说道，他很自豪能够在朋友们眼中展示如此丰富的礼物。

‘Yes,’ said Athos, ‘it reminds me of a family jewel.’
“是的，”阿托斯说，“它让我想起了一件家族珠宝。”

‘It is beautiful, is it not?’ said d’Artagnan.
“它很漂亮，不是吗？”达达尼昂说。

‘Yes,’ said Athos, ‘magnificent. I did not think two sapphires of such a fine water existed. Have you traded it for your diamond?’
“是的，”阿托斯说，“太棒了。”我没想到有两颗如此优质水的蓝宝石存在。你用它换钻石了吗？

‘No. It is a gift from my beautiful Englishwoman, or rather Frenchwoman—for I am convinced she was born in France, though I have not questioned her.’
'不。这是我美丽的英国女人，或者更确切地说是法国女人的礼物，因为我确信她出生在法国，尽管我没有质疑她。

‘That ring comes from Milady?’ cried Athos, with a voice in which it was easy to detect strong emotion.
“那枚戒指是米莱迪送的？”阿托斯喊道，声音中很容易听出强烈的情绪。

‘Her very self; she gave it me last night. Here it is,’ replied d’Artagnan, taking it from his finger.
‘她的自我；她昨晚给了我。就在这儿，”达达尼昂回答道，从手指上接过它。

Athos examined it and became very pale. He tried it on his left hand; it fit his finger as if made for it.
阿多斯检查了一下，脸色变得非常苍白。他在左手上试了一下；它很适合他的手指，就像是为它量身定做的一样。

A shade of anger and vengeance passed across the usually calm brow of this gentleman.
这位绅士一向冷静的眉宇间掠过一抹愤怒和复仇之色。

‘It is impossible it can be she,’ said be. ‘How could this ring come into the hands of Milady Clarik? And yet it is difficult to suppose such a resemblance should exist between two jewels.’
“不可能是她，”贝说道。 ‘这枚戒指怎么会到米拉迪·克拉里克的手里？然而，很难想象两颗珠宝之间存在如此相似之处。”

‘Do you know this ring?’ said d’Artagnan.
“你认识这枚戒指吗？”达达尼昂问道。

‘I thought I did,’ replied Athos; ‘but no doubt I was mistaken.’ And he returned d’Artagnan the ring without, however, ceasing to look at it.
“我想我做到了，”阿托斯回答道。 “但毫无疑问我错了。”他把戒指还给了达达尼昂，但仍然没有停止看它。

‘Pray, d’Artagnan,’ said Athos, after a minute, ‘either take off that ring or turn the mounting inside; it recalls such cruel recollections that I shall have no head to converse with you. Don’t ask me for counsel; don’t tell me you are perplexed what to do. But stop! let me look at that sapphire again; the one I mentioned to you had one of its faces scratched by accident.’
“求你了，达达尼昂，”阿托斯过了一会儿说道，“要么把那个环取下来，要么把支架转进去；否则，你就得把它拆下来。”它让我想起了如此残酷的回忆，以至于我没有头脑与你交谈。不要向我寻求建议；别告诉我你对该怎么做感到困惑。但是停下来！让我再看看那颗蓝宝石；我向你提到的那个，它的一张脸被意外划伤了。”

D’Artagnan took off the ring, giving it again to Athos.
达达尼昂摘下戒指，再次交给阿托斯。

Athos started. ‘Look,’ said he, ‘is it not strange?’ and he pointed out to d’Artagnan the scratch he had remembered.
阿托斯开始了。 “你看，”他说，“这不奇怪吗？”他向达达尼昂指出了他记得的划痕。

‘But from whom did this ring come to you, Athos?’
“但这枚戒指是从谁那里给你的，阿托斯？”

‘From my mother, who inherited it from her mother. As I told you, it is an old family jewel.’
‘来自我母亲，她从她母亲那里继承了它。正如我告诉过你的，这是一件古老的家族宝石。

‘And you—sold it?’ asked d’Artagnan, hesitatingly.
“那你——把它卖掉了？”达达尼昂犹豫地问道。

‘No,’ replied Athos, with a singular smile. ‘I gave it away in a night of love, as it has been given to you.’
“不，”阿托斯回答道，脸上带着奇异的微笑。 “我在一个充满爱的夜晚把它送给了你，就像它送给你一样。”

D’Artagnan became pensive in his turn; it appeared as if there were abysses in Milady’s soul whose depths were dark and unknown. He took back the ring, but put it in his pocket and not on his finger.
达达尼昂也陷入了沉思。米莱迪的灵魂里仿佛有一个深渊，其深处是黑暗而未知的。他收回戒指，但把它放在口袋里，而不是戴在手指上。

‘d’Artagnan,’ said Athos, taking his hand, ‘you know I love you; if I had a son I could not love him better. Take my advice, renounce this woman. I do not know her, but a sort of intuition tells me she is a lost creature, and that there is something fatal about her.’
“达达尼昂，”阿托斯握住他的手说道，“你知道我爱你；我爱你。”如果我有一个儿子，我就不能更好地爱他了。听我的建议，放弃这个女人。我不认识她，但一种直觉告诉我，她是一个迷失的生物，她身上有某种致命的东西。

‘You are right,’ said d’Artagnan; ‘I will have done with her. I own that this woman terrifies me.’
“你是对的，”达达尼昂说。 “我就和她了结了。”我承认这个女人让我害怕。

‘Shall you have the courage?’ said Athos.
“你有勇气吗？”阿托斯说。

‘I shall,’ replied d’Artagnan, ‘and instantly.’
“我会的，”达达尼昂回答，“而且是立刻。”

‘In truth, my young friend, you will act rightly,’ said the gentleman, pressing the Gascon’s hand with an affection almost paternal; ‘and God grant that this woman, who has scarcely entered into your life, may not leave a terrible trace in it!’ And Athos bowed to d’Artagnan like a man who wishes it understood that he would not be sorry to be left alone with his thoughts.
“说实话，我年轻的朋友，你的行为是正确的。”这位绅士一边说，一边用近乎慈父般的慈爱握着加斯科尼人的手。 “愿上帝保佑这个刚刚进入你生活的女人，不要在你的生活中留下可怕的痕迹！”阿托斯向达达尼昂鞠躬，就像一个希望人们理解他不会因为独自一人而感到遗憾的人一样。和他的想法。

On reaching home d’Artagnan found Kitty waiting for him. A month of fever could not have changed her more than this one night of sleeplessness and sorrow.
回到家后，达达尼昂发现基蒂正在等他。一个月的高烧对她的改变，莫过于这一夜的失眠和悲伤。

She was sent by her mistress to the false de Wardes. Her mistress was mad with love, intoxicated with joy. She wished to know when her lover would meet her a second night; and poor Kitty, pale and trembling, awaited d’Artagnan’s reply. The counsels of his friend, joined to the cries of his own heart, made him determine, now his pride was saved and his vengeance satisfied, not to see Milady again. As a reply, he wrote the following letter:
她被她的情妇送到了假德瓦尔德那里。她的女主人因爱而疯狂，因欢乐而陶醉。她想知道她的爱人第二晚什么时候能见到她；可怜的基蒂脸色苍白，浑身颤抖，等待着达达尼昂的答复。他朋友的劝告，加上他内心的呼喊，使他下定决心，现在他的自尊心得到了拯救，他的复仇心得到了满足，不再见到米莱迪了。作为答复，他写了以下信：

Do not depend upon me, madame, for the next meeting. Since my convalescence I have so many affairs of this kind on my hands that I am forced to regulate them a little. When your turn comes, I shall have the honor to inform you of it. I kiss your hands.
夫人，下次会议请不要依赖我。自从我康复以来，我手头上的事情太多了，我不得不稍微调整一下。当轮到你的时候，我将荣幸地通知你。我亲吻你的手。

Comte de Wardes
瓦尔德伯爵

Not a word about the sapphire. Was the Gascon determined to keep it as a weapon against Milady, or else, let us be frank, did he not reserve the sapphire as a last resource for his outfit? It would be wrong to judge the actions of one period from the point of view of another. That which would now be considered as disgraceful to a gentleman was at that time quite a simple and natural affair, and the younger sons of the best families were frequently supported by their mistresses. D’Artagnan gave the open letter to Kitty, who at first was unable to comprehend it, but who became almost wild with joy on reading it a second time. She could scarcely believe in her happiness; and d’Artagnan was forced to renew with the living voice the assurances which he had written. And whatever might be—considering the violent character of Milady—the danger which the poor girl incurred in giving this billet to her mistress, she ran back to the Place Royale as fast as her legs could carry her.
没有提到蓝宝石。加斯科尼人是否决心保留它作为对抗米莱迪的武器，或者，坦白说，他是否没有将蓝宝石保留为他的装备的最后资源？从一个时期的角度来判断另一个时期的行为是错误的。现在被认为是绅士耻辱的事情，在当时是一件很简单、很自然的事情，而名门望族的小儿子常常得到他们的情妇的支持。达达尼昂把这封公开信交给了基蒂，基蒂起初无法理解这封信，但第二次读到这封信时，她欣喜若狂。她简直不敢相信自己会幸福。达达尼昂被迫以生动的声音重申他所写的保证。不管是什么——考虑到米拉迪的暴力性格——这个可怜的女孩把这个住所给她的情妇所带来的危险，她以最快的速度跑回皇家广场。

The heart of the best woman is pitiless toward the sorrows of a rival.
最好的女人的心对于情敌的悲伤是无情的。

Milady opened the letter with eagerness equal to Kitty’s in bringing it; but at the first words she read she became livid. She crushed the paper in her hand, and turning with flashing eyes upon Kitty, she cried, ‘What is this letter?’
米莱迪打开这封信时，和凯蒂送信时一样热切。但当她读到第一句话时，她就勃然大怒。她捏碎了手里的纸，转过头来，眼睛闪闪发亮地看着基蒂，喊道：“这封信是什么？”

‘The answer to Madame’s,’ replied Kitty, all in a tremble.
“夫人的回答，”基蒂回答道，全身都在颤抖。

‘Impossible!’ cried Milady. ‘It is impossible a gentleman could have written such a letter to a woman.’ Then all at once, starting, she cried, ‘My God! can he have—‘ and she stopped. She ground her teeth; she was of the color of ashes. She tried to go toward the window for air, but she could only stretch forth her arms; her legs failed her, and she sank into an armchair. Kitty, fearing she was ill, hastened toward her and was beginning to open her dress; but Milady started up, pushing her away. ‘What do you want with me?’ said she, ‘and why do you place your hand on me?’
“不可能！”米莱迪喊道。 “一个绅士不可能给一个女人写这样一封信。”然后她突然惊呼道：“天哪！他能不能——”她停了下来。她咬紧牙关；她的颜色如灰烬。她试图走到窗前透透气，但只能伸出双臂，无法呼吸。她的双腿发软，瘫坐在扶手椅上。基蒂担心她生病了，赶紧向她走去，开始解开她的衣服。但米莱迪猛地站起来，把她推开。 “你想对我做什么？”她说，“你为什么把手放在我身上？”

‘I thought that Madame was ill, and I wished to bring her help,’ responded the maid, frightened at the terrible expression which had come over her mistress’s face.
“我以为夫人病了，我想帮助她。”女仆回答道，她被女主人脸上的可怕表情吓坏了。

‘I faint? I? I? Do you take me for half a woman? When I am insulted I do not faint; I avenge myself!’
'我晕？我？我？你当我是半个女人吗？当我受到侮辱时，我不会晕倒；我为自己报仇！

And she made a sign for Kitty to leave the room.
她示意凯蒂离开房间。

36 DREAM OF VENGEANCE
36 复仇之梦

That evening Milady gave orders that when M. d’Artagnan came as usual, he should be immediately admitted; but he did not come.
那天晚上，米拉迪下令，当达达尼昂先生像往常一样来时，他应该立即被接纳。但他没有来。

The next day Kitty went to see the young man again, and related to him all that had passed on the preceding evening. d’Artagnan smiled; this jealous anger of Milady was his revenge.
第二天，基蒂又去看了年轻人，向他讲述了前一天晚上发生的一切。达达尼昂微笑着；米莱迪的嫉妒愤怒是他的报复。

That evening Milady was still more impatient than on the preceding evening. She renewed the order relative to the Gascon; but as before she expected him in vain.
那天晚上，米莱迪比前一天晚上更加不耐烦。她更新了有关加斯科尼人的命令；但和以前一样，她对他的期待是徒劳的。

The next morning, when Kitty presented herself at d’Artagnan’s, she was no longer joyous and alert as on the two preceding days; but on the contrary sad as death.
第二天早上，当基蒂出现在达达尼昂家时，她不再像前两天那样快乐和警觉；但相反却悲伤如死。

D’Artagnan asked the poor girl what was the matter with her; but she, as her only reply, drew a letter from her pocket and gave it to him.
达达尼昂问这个可怜的女孩怎么了？但她唯一的答复是从口袋里掏出一封信交给他。

This letter was in Milady’s handwriting; only this time it was addressed to M. d’Artagnan, and not to M. de Wardes.
这封信是米莱迪亲笔写下的。只是这一次是写给达达尼昂先生的，而不是德瓦尔德先生。

He opened it and read as follows:
他打开一看，内容如下：

Dear M. d’Artagnan, It is wrong thus to neglect your friends, particularly at the moment you are about to leave them for so long a time. My brother-in-law and myself expected you yesterday and the day before, but in vain. Will it be the same this evening?
亲爱的达达尼昂先生： 忽视你的朋友是错误的，尤其是在你即将离开他们这么长时间的时候。我和姐夫昨天和前天都在盼望你，但没有成功。今天晚上也会一样吗？

Your very grateful, Milady Clarik
非常感谢，米拉迪·克拉里克

‘That’s all very simple,’ said d’Artagnan; ‘I expected this letter. My credit rises by the fall of that of the Comte de Wardes.’
“这一切都很简单，”达达尼昂说。 “我期待着这封信。我的信誉随着瓦尔德伯爵的垮台而上升。

‘And will you go?’ asked Kitty.
“你愿意去吗？”基蒂问道。

‘Listen to me, my dear girl,’ said the Gascon, who sought for an excuse in his own eyes for breaking the promise he had made Athos; ‘you must understand it would be impolitic not to accept such a positive invitation. Milady, not seeing me come again, would not be able to understand what could cause the interruption of my visits, and might suspect something; who could say how far the vengeance of such a woman would go?’
“听我说，我亲爱的女孩，”加斯科涅人说道，他在自己眼中为违背对阿托斯的承诺寻找借口。 “你必须明白，不接受如此积极的邀请是不明智的。米莱迪没有看到我再次回来，她无法理解是什么原因导致我的访问中断，并且可能会怀疑一些事情；谁知道这样一个女人的复仇会达到什么程度呢？

‘Oh, my God!’ said Kitty, ‘you know how to represent things in such a way that you are always in the right. You are going now to pay your court to her again, and if this time you succeed in pleasing her in your own name and with your own face, it will be much worse than before.’
“哦，我的上帝！”基蒂说，“你知道如何以一种永远正确的方式来表达事物。你现在又要向她求情了，如果这一次你能以自己的名义、以自己的面子取悦她，那就比以前糟糕多了。

Instinct made poor Kitty guess a part of what was to happen. d’Artagnan reassured her as well as he could, and promised to remain insensible to the seductions of Milady.
直觉让可怜的基蒂猜到了将要发生的事情的一部分。达达尼昂尽可能地让她放心，并保证对米莱迪的诱惑保持无动于衷。

He desired Kitty to tell her mistress that he could not be more grateful for her kindnesses than he was, and that he would be obedient to her orders. He did not dare to write for fear of not being able—to such experienced eyes as those of Milady—to disguise his writing sufficiently.
他希望凯蒂告诉她的女主人，他对她的好意感激不尽，并且他会服从她的命令。他不敢写作，因为担心在米莱迪这样经验丰富的人眼中，无法充分掩饰他的写作。

As nine o’clock sounded, d’Artagnan was at the Place Royale. It was evident that the servants who waited in the antechamber were warned, for as soon as d’Artagnan appeared, before even he had asked if Milady were visible, one of them ran to announce him.
九点钟敲响时，达达尼昂已经到了皇家广场。显然，在前厅等候的仆人们都受到了警告，因为达达尼昂一出现，甚至在他问米莱迪是否出现之前，其中一个就跑去通报他的情况。

‘Show him in,’ said Milady, in a quick tone, but so piercing that d’Artagnan heard her in the antechamber.
“请他进来，”米莱迪说，语气很快，但语气如此尖锐，达达尼昂在前厅里听到了她的声音。

He was introduced.
他被介绍了。

‘I am at home to nobody,’ said Milady; ‘observe, to nobody.’ The servant went out.
“我不喜欢任何人，”米莱迪说。 “注意，不要对任何人说。”仆人出去了。

D’Artagnan cast an inquiring glance at Milady. She was pale, and looked fatigued, either from tears or want of sleep. The number of lights had been intentionally diminished, but the young woman could not conceal the traces of the fever which had devoured her for two days.
达达尼昂询问地看了米莱迪一眼。她脸色苍白，看上去很疲惫，要么是因为流泪，要么是因为缺乏睡眠。灯光的数量被刻意减少了，但年轻女子却无法掩饰已经吞噬了她两天的高烧痕迹。

D’Artagnan approached her with his usual gallantry. She then made an extraordinary effort to receive him, but never did a more distressed countenance give the lie to a more amiable smile.
达达尼昂以他一贯的殷勤态度向她走来。然后，她竭尽全力地接待他，但脸上的表情从未像现在这样痛苦，反而露出了更加和蔼可亲的微笑。

To the questions which d’Artagnan put concerning her health, she replied, ‘Bad, very bad.’
对于达达尼昂提出的有关她健康状况的问题，她回答说：“很糟糕，非常糟糕。”

‘Then,’ replied he, ‘my visit is ill-timed; you, no doubt, stand in need of repose, and I will withdraw.’
“那么，”他回答道，“我来的时机不对；毫无疑问，你需要休息，我会退出。

‘No. no!’ said Milady. ‘On the contrary, stay, Monsieur d’Artagnan; your agreeable company will divert me.’
'不。不！”米莱迪说。 “恰恰相反，留下来，达达尼昂先生；你的友善陪伴会让我开心。

‘Oh, oh!’ thought d’Artagnan. ‘She has never been so kind before. On guard!’
“噢，噢！”达达尼昂想。 ‘她以前从来没有这么友善过。处于戒备！'

Milady assumed the most agreeable air possible, and conversed with more than her usual brilliancy. At the same time the fever, which for an instant abandoned her, returned to give luster to her eyes, color to her cheeks, and vermillion to her lips. D’Artagnan was again in the presence of the Circe who had before surrounded him with her enchantments. His love, which he believed to be extinct but which was only asleep, awoke again in his heart. Milady smiled, and d’Artagnan felt that he could damn himself for that smile. There was a moment at which he felt something like remorse.
米莱迪摆出一副最令人愉快的样子，谈话时比平时更加​​聪明。与此同时，暂时抛弃了她的高烧又回来了，让她的眼睛变得有光泽，脸颊变得红润，嘴唇变得朱红。达达尼昂再次出现在之前用魔法包围着他的喀耳刻面前。他本以为已经绝迹，但只是沉睡的爱情，却在他心中再次苏醒。米莱迪笑了，达达尼昂觉得他会因为这个微笑而诅咒自己。有那么一瞬间，他有种悔恨的感觉。

By degrees, Milady became more communicative. She asked d’Artagnan if he had a mistress.
渐渐地，米莱迪变得更加健谈了。她问达达尼昂是否有情妇。

‘Alas!’ said d’Artagnan, with the most sentimental air he could assume, ‘can you be cruel enough to put such a question to me—to me, who, from the moment I saw you, have only breathed and sighed through you and for you?’
“唉！”达达尼昂用他所能表现出来的最伤感的神情说道，“你能残忍地向我提出这样的问题吗——对我来说，从我见到你的那一刻起，我只是呼吸和叹息。你和你吗？

Milady smiled with a strange smile.
米莱迪露出了诡异的笑容。

‘Then you love me?’ said she.
“那你爱我吗？”她说。

‘Have I any need to tell you so? Have you not perceived it?’
‘我有必要告诉你吗？你没有察觉到吗？

‘It may be; but you know the more hearts are worth the capture, the more difficult they are to be won.’
‘可能是；但你知道，越值得俘获的心，就越难赢得。

‘Oh, difficulties do not affright me,’ said d’Artagnan. ‘I shrink before nothing but impossibilities.’
“哦，困难不会让我害怕，”达达尼昂说。 “除了不可能之外，我只会退缩。”

‘Nothing is impossible,’ replied Milady, ‘to true love.’
“对于真爱来说，没有什么是不可能的，”米莱迪回答道。

‘Nothing, madame?’
“没什么，女士？”

‘Nothing,’ replied Milady.
“没什么，”米莱迪回答道。

‘The devil!’ thought d’Artagnan. ‘The note is changed. Is she going to fall in love with me, by chance, this fair inconstant; and will she be disposed to give me myself another sapphire like that which she gave me for de Wardes?’
“魔鬼！”达达尼昂想。 ‘注释已更改。难道她会偶然爱上我吗？她愿意再给我一颗蓝宝石吗？就像她送给我的德瓦尔德那样？

D’Artagnan rapidly drew his seat nearer to Milady’s.
达达尼昂迅速将座位拉近米莱迪的位置。

‘Well, now,’ she said, ‘let us see what you would do to prove this love of which you speak.’
“好吧，现在，”她说，“让我们看看你会做什么来证明你所说的这种爱。”

‘All that could be required of me. Order; I am ready.’
“这一切都对我有要求。命令;我已经准备好了。'

‘For everything?’
“为了一切？”

‘For everything,’ cried d’Artagnan, who knew beforehand that he had not much to risk in engaging himself thus.
“不管怎样，”达达尼昂喊道，他事先就知道这样做不会冒太大的风险。

‘Well, now let us talk a little seriously,’ said Milady, in her turn drawing her armchair nearer to d’Artagnan’s chair.
“好吧，现在让我们认真地谈谈，”米拉迪说，然后她把扶手椅拉近了达达尼昂的椅子。

‘I am all attention, madame,’ said he.
“我全神贯注，女士，”他说。

Milady remained thoughtful and undecided for a moment; then, as if appearing to have formed a resolution, she said, ‘I have an enemy.’
米莱迪陷入沉思，犹豫不决。然后，她似乎已经下了决心，说道：“我有一个敌人。”

‘You, madame!’ said d’Artagnan, affecting surprise; ‘is that possible, my God?—good and beautiful as you are!’
“你，夫人！”达达尼昂假装惊讶地说。 “这可能吗，我的上帝？——你又善良又美丽！”

‘A mortal enemy.’
“一个不共戴天的敌人。”

‘Indeed!’
'的确！'

‘An enemy who has insulted me so cruelly that between him and me it is war to the death. May I reckon on you as an auxiliary?’
“一个敌人如此残酷地侮辱了我，以至于他和我之间展开了生死之战。我可以把你当作辅助吗？

D’Artagnan at once perceived the ground which the vindictive creature wished to reach.
达达尼昂立刻察觉到了这个怀恨在心的生物想要到达的地方。

‘You may, madame,’ said he, with emphasis. ‘My arm and my life belong to you, like my love.’
“可以，夫人，”他强调道。 “我的手臂和我的生命都属于你，就像我的爱一样。”

‘Then,’ said Milady, ‘since you are as generous as you are loving—‘
“那么，”米莱迪说，“既然你既慷慨又充满爱心——”

She stopped.
她停了下来。

‘Well?’ demanded d’Artagnan.
“怎么样？”达达尼昂问道。

‘Well,’ replied Milady, after a moment of silence, ‘from the present time, cease to talk of impossibilities.’
“好吧，”米莱迪沉默了一会儿，回答道，“从现在开始，别再谈论不可能的事情了。”

‘Do not overwhelm me with happiness,’ cried d’Artagnan, throwing himself on his knees, and covering with kisses the hands abandoned to him.
“别让幸福压倒我，”达达尼昂喊道，双膝跪地，亲吻了他的双手。

‘Avenge me of that infamous de Wardes,’ said Milady, between her teeth, ‘and I shall soon know how to get rid of you—you double idiot, you animated sword blade!’
“为我那个臭名昭著的德瓦尔德报仇吧，”米莱迪咬牙切齿地说，“我很快就会知道如何除掉你——你这个双白痴，你这个动画剑刃！”

‘Fall voluntarily into my arms, hypocritical and dangerous woman,’ said d’Artagnan, likewise to himself, ‘after having abused me with such effrontery, and afterward I will laugh at you with him whom you wish me to kill.’
“你自愿投入我的怀抱吧，虚伪而危险的女人，”达达尼昂同样自言自语道，“在你如此厚颜无耻地辱骂了我之后，我会和你一起嘲笑你，你想让我杀了他。”

D’Artagnan lifted up his head.
达达尼昂抬起头。

‘I am ready,’ said he.
“我准备好了，”他说。

‘You have understood me, then, dear Monsieur d’Artagnan,’ said Milady.
“那么，亲爱的达达尼昂先生，您已经理解我的意思了，”米莱迪说。

‘I could interpret one of your looks.’
“我可以解读你的外表之一。”

‘Then you would employ for me your arm which has already acquired so much renown?’
“那么你愿意为我使用你已经享有盛名的手臂吗？”

‘Instantly!’
'即刻！'

‘But on my part,’ said Milady, ‘how should I repay such a service? I know these lovers. They are men who do nothing for nothing.’
“但就我而言，”米莱迪说，“我该如何报答这样的服务呢？我认识这些恋人。他们是不劳而获的人。

‘You know the only reply that I desire,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘the only one worthy of you and of me!’
“你知道我想要的唯一答复，”达达尼昂说，“唯一配得上你和我的答复！”

And he drew nearer to her.
他离她更近了。

She scarcely resisted.
她几乎没有反抗。

‘Interested man!’ cried she, smiling.
“有兴趣的人！”她微笑着喊道。

‘Ah,’ cried d’Artagnan, really carried away by the passion this woman had the power to kindle in his heart, ‘ah, that is because my happiness appears so impossible to me; and I have such fear that it should fly away from me like a dream that I pant to make a reality of it.’
“啊，”达达尼昂喊道，他真的被这个女人有能力在他心中点燃的激情所感动，“啊，那是因为我的幸福对我来说是不可能的；我非常担心它会像一场梦一样从我身边飞走，我渴望让它成为现实。

‘Well, merit this pretended happiness, then!’
“那么，就值得这种假装的幸福吧！”

‘I am at your orders,’ said d’Artagnan.
“我听从你的命令，”达达尼昂说。

‘Quite certain?’ said Milady, with a last doubt.
“很确定吗？”米莱迪带着最后的怀疑说道。

‘Only name to me the base man that has brought tears into your beautiful eyes!’
“只告诉我那个让你美丽的眼睛流泪的卑鄙男人的名字！”

‘Who told you that I had been weeping?’ said she.
“谁告诉你我一直在哭？”她说。

‘It appeared to me—‘
“在我看来——”

‘Such women as I never weep,’ said Milady.
“像我这样的女人从不哭泣。”米莱迪说。

‘So much the better! Come, tell me his name!’
‘那就更好了！来吧，告诉我他的名字！

‘Remember that his name is all my secret.’
“记住，他的名字是我的全部秘密。”

‘Yet I must know his name.’
“但我必须知道他的名字。”

‘Yes, you must; see what confidence I have in you!’
‘是的，你必须；看看我对你有多大的信心！

‘You overwhelm me with joy. What is his name?’
‘你让我欣喜若狂。他叫什么名字？

‘You know him.’
“你认识他。”

‘Indeed.’
'的确。'

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘It is surely not one of my friends?’ replied d’Artagnan, affecting hesitation in order to make her believe him ignorant.
“这肯定不是我的一位朋友吧？”达达尼昂回答道，假装犹豫不决，想让她相信他无知。

‘If it were one of your friends you would hesitate, then?’ cried Milady; and a threatening glance darted from her eyes.
“如果是你的一位朋友，你会犹豫吗？”米莱迪喊道。她的眼中闪过威胁的目光。

‘Not if it were my own brother!’ cried d’Artagnan, as if carried away by his enthusiasm.
“如果是我自己的兄弟就不会！”达达尼昂喊道，仿佛被他的热情冲昏了头脑。

Our Gascon promised this without risk, for he knew all that was meant.
我们的加斯科尼人毫无风险地答应了这一点，因为他知道这一切的含义。

‘I love your devotedness,’ said Milady.
“我喜欢你的忠诚，”米莱迪说。

‘Alas, do you love nothing else in me?’ asked d’Artagnan.
“唉，你除了我以外就没有别的爱好了吗？”达达尼昂问道。

‘I love you also, YOU!’ said she, taking his hand.
“我也爱你，你！”她握住他的手说道。

The warm pressure made d’Artagnan tremble, as if by the touch that fever which consumed Milady attacked himself.
温暖的压力让达达尼昂浑身颤抖，仿佛米莱迪的发烧一触即发袭击了自己。

‘You love me, you!’ cried he. ‘Oh, if that were so, I should lose my reason!’
“你爱我，你！”他喊道。 “哦，如果是这样的话，我就失去理智了！”

And he folded her in his arms. She made no effort to remove her lips from his kisses; only she did not respond to them. Her lips were cold; it appeared to d’Artagnan that he had embraced a statue.
他将她搂在怀里。她没有试图将自己的嘴唇从他的吻中移开。只是她没有回应他们。她的嘴唇冰凉；达达尼昂觉得他拥抱了一尊雕像。

He was not the less intoxicated with joy, electrified by love. He almost believed in the tenderness of Milady; he almost believed in the crime of de Wardes. If de Wardes had at that moment been under his hand, he would have killed him.
他仍然沉浸在喜悦之中，被爱所震撼。他几乎相信了米莱迪的温柔。他几乎相信了德瓦尔德的罪行。如果德瓦尔德当时在他的手下，他就会杀了他。

Milady seized the occasion.
米莱迪抓住了这个机会。

‘His name is—‘ said she, in her turn.
“他的名字是——”轮到她说道。

‘De Wardes; I know it,’ cried d’Artagnan.
'德瓦尔德斯；我知道，”达达尼昂喊道。

‘And how do you know it?’ asked Milady, seizing both his hands, and endeavoring to read with her eyes to the bottom of his heart.
“你怎么知道的？”米莱迪问道，抓住他的双手，努力用眼睛读懂他的心底。

D’Artagnan felt he had allowed himself to be carried away, and that he had committed an error.
达达尼昂觉得自己被冲昏了头脑，犯了一个错误。

‘Tell me, tell me, tell me, I say,’ repeated Milady, ‘how do you know it?’
“告诉我，告诉我，告诉我，我说，”米莱迪重复道，“你怎么知道的？”

‘How do I know it?’ said d’Artagnan.
“我怎么知道呢？”达达尼昂说。

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘I know it because yesterday Monsieur de Wardes, in a saloon where I was, showed a ring which he said he had received from you.’
“我知道这一点是因为昨天德瓦尔德先生在我所在的一家酒吧里展示了一枚戒指，他说这是你从你那里收到的。”

‘Wretch!’ cried Milady.
“可怜虫！”米莱迪叫道。

The epithet, as may be easily understood, resounded to the very bottom of d’Artagnan’s heart.
这个绰号，很容易理解，却响彻达达尼昂的心底。

‘Well?’ continued she.
“怎么样？”她继续说道。

‘Well, I will avenge you of this wretch,’ replied d’Artagnan, giving himself the airs of Don Japhet of Armenia.
“好吧，我会为你这个可怜虫报仇的。”达达尼昂回答道，摆出了亚美尼亚唐·雅菲特的架势。

‘Thanks, my brave friend!’ cried Milady; ‘and when shall I be avenged?’
“谢谢，我勇敢的朋友！”米莱迪喊道。 “我什么时候才能报仇呢？”

‘Tomorrow—immediately—when you please!’
“明天——立即——只要你愿意！”

Milady was about to cry out, ‘Immediately,’ but she reflected that such precipitation would not be very gracious toward d’Artagnan.
米莱迪正要喊“立刻”，但她想到这样的降水对达达尼昂来说不太好。

Besides, she had a thousand precautions to take, a thousand counsels to give to her defender, in order that he might avoid explanations with the count before witnesses. All this was answered by an expression of d’Artagnan’s. ‘Tomorrow,’ said he, ‘you will be avenged, or I shall be dead.’
此外，她还有一千种预防措施要采取，一千种忠告要给她的辩护人，以便他可以避免在证人面前向伯爵解释。达达尼昂的表情回答了这一切。 “明天，”他说，“你就会被报仇，否则我就死了。”

‘No,’ said she, ‘you will avenge me; but you will not be dead. He is a coward.’
“不，”她说，“你会为我报仇的；但你不会死。他是个胆小鬼。

‘With women, perhaps; but not with men. I know something of him.’
“也许是和女人在一起；但对男人则不然。我对他有所了解。

‘But it seems you had not much reason to complain of your fortune in your contest with him.’
“不过看来你并没有太多理由抱怨自己在与他的较量中的运气。”

‘Fortune is a courtesan; favorable yesterday, she may turn her back tomorrow.’
‘福是妓女；昨天还不错，明天她可能会转身离开。

‘Which means that you now hesitate?’
“这意味着你现在犹豫了？”

‘No, I do not hesitate; God forbid! But would it be just to allow me to go to a possible death without having given me at least something more than hope?’
“不，我不会犹豫；上帝禁止！但这只是让我走向可能的死亡而不给我至少比希望更多的东西吗？

Milady answered by a glance which said, ‘Is that all?—speak, then.’ And then accompanying the glance with explanatory words, ‘That is but too just,’ said she, tenderly.
米莱迪看了一眼，回答道：“就这些了吗？——那么，请说吧。”然后，伴随着这一目光，她用解释性的话语说道：“这太公正了，”她温柔地说。

‘Oh, you are an angel!’ exclaimed the young man.
“哦，你真是天使！”年轻人惊呼道。

‘Then all is agreed?’ said she.
“那么一切都同意了吗？”她说。

‘Except that which I ask of you, dear love.’
“除了我对你的要求，亲爱的。”

‘But when I assure you that you may rely on my tenderness?’
“但是当我向你保证你可以信赖我的温柔时呢？”

‘I cannot wait till tomorrow.’
“我等不及明天了。”

‘Silence! I hear my brother. It will be useless for him to find you here.’
'安静！我听到我的兄弟。他在这里找到你是没有用的。

She rang the bell and Kitty appeared.
她按响了门铃，凯蒂出现了。

‘Go out this way,’ said she, opening a small private door, ‘and come back at eleven o’clock; we will then terminate this conversation. Kitty will conduct you to my chamber.’
“从这边出去，”她打开一扇私人小门说道，“十一点钟回来；然后我们将终止这次对话。基蒂会带你去我的房间。

The poor girl almost fainted at hearing these words.
可怜的女孩听到这句话差点晕过去。

‘Well, mademoiselle, what are you thinking about, standing there like a statue? Do as I bid you: show the chevalier out; and this evening at eleven o’clock—you have heard what I said.’
“好吧，小姐，你像雕像一样站在那里，在想什么？照我吩咐的去做：把骑士带出去；今天晚上十一点——你已经听到我说的话了。”

‘It appears that these appointments are all made for eleven o’clock,’ thought d’Artagnan; ‘that’s a settled custom.’
“看来这些约会都是在十一点钟进行的，”达达尼昂想道。 “这是一个既定的习俗。”

Milady held out her hand to him, which he kissed tenderly.
米莱迪向他伸出手，他温柔地吻了一下。

‘But,’ said he, as he retired as quickly as possible from the reproaches of Kitty, ‘I must not play the fool. This woman is certainly a great liar. I must take care.’
“但是，”他一边说，一边尽快从基蒂的责备中走出来，“我不能装傻。”这个女人绝对是个大骗子。我必须小心。

37 MILADY’S SECRET
37 米莱迪的秘密

D’Artagnan left the hotel instead of going up at once to Kitty’s chamber, as she endeavored to persuade him to do—and that for two reasons: the first, because by this means he should escape reproaches, recriminations, and prayers; the second, because he was not sorry to have an opportunity of reading his own thoughts and endeavoring, if possible, to fathom those of this woman.
达达尼昂离开了旅馆，而不是像基蒂极力劝说的那样立即去基蒂的房间——这样做有两个原因：第一，因为这样他就可以避免责备、指责和祈祷；第二，因为这样他就可以避免责备、指责和祈祷。第二，因为他并不遗憾有机会了解自己的想法，并在可能的情况下努力理解这个女人的想法。

What was most clear in the matter was that d’Artagnan loved Milady like a madman, and that she did not love him at all. In an instant d’Artagnan perceived that the best way in which he could act would be to go home and write Milady a long letter, in which he would confess to her that he and de Wardes were, up to the present moment absolutely the same, and that consequently he could not undertake, without committing suicide, to kill the Comte de Wardes. But he also was spurred on by a ferocious desire of vengeance. He wished to subdue this woman in his own name; and as this vengeance appeared to him to have a certain sweetness in it, he could not make up his mind to renounce it.
这件事最清楚的是，达达尼昂像个疯子一样爱着米莱迪，而她根本不爱他。达达尼昂立刻意识到，他最好的办法就是回家给米莱迪写一封长信，在信中他要向她承认，到目前为止，他和德瓦尔德是完全一样的。 ，因此他不能在不自杀的情况下杀死瓦尔德伯爵。但他也被强烈的复仇欲望所激励。他要以自己的名义征服这个女人，由于他觉得这种复仇有一定的甜蜜，所以他无法下定决心放弃它。

He walked six or seven times round the Place Royale, turning at every ten steps to look at the light in Milady’s apartment, which was to be seen through the blinds. It was evident that this time the young woman was not in such haste to retire to her apartment as she had been the first.
他绕着皇家广场走了六七圈，每走十步就转头看看米莱迪公寓里的灯光，透过百叶窗可以看到灯光。显然，这一次这位年轻女子并不像第一次那样急于回到自己的公寓。

At length the light disappeared. With this light was extinguished the last irresolution in the heart of d’Artagnan. He recalled to his mind the details of the first night, and with a beating heart and a brain on fire he re-entered the hotel and flew toward Kitty’s chamber.
最后那光消失了。这盏灯熄灭了达达尼昂心中最后的犹豫。他回忆起第一晚的细节，心潮澎湃，脑子火热，重新进入酒店，飞向凯蒂的房间。

The poor girl, pale as death and trembling in all her limbs, wished to delay her lover; but Milady, with her ear on the watch, had heard the noise d’Artagnan had made, and opening the door, said, ‘Come in.’
可怜的姑娘脸色苍白如死人，四肢发抖，她想拖延她的情人。但米莱迪耳朵一直盯着手表，听到了达达尼昂发出的声音，于是打开门说：“进来吧。”

All this was of such incredible immodesty, of such monstrous effrontery, that d’Artagnan could scarcely believe what he saw or what he heard. He imagined himself to be drawn into one of those fantastic intrigues one meets in dreams. He, however, darted not the less quickly toward Milady, yielding to that magnetic attraction which the loadstone exercises over iron.
这一切都是如此令人难以置信的不谦虚，如此可怕的厚颜无耻，以至于达达尼昂几乎不敢相信他所看到的或他所听到的。他想象自己被卷入梦境中的奇妙阴谋之一。然而，他还是很快地冲向米莱迪，屈服于磁石对铁的磁力吸引力。

As the door closed after them Kitty rushed toward it. Jealousy, fury, offended pride, all the passions in short that dispute the heart of an outraged woman in love, urged her to make a revelation; but she reflected that she would be totally lost if she confessed having assisted in such a machination, and above all, that d’Artagnan would also be lost to her forever. This last thought of love counseled her to make this last sacrifice.
当门在他们身后关上时，基蒂冲向门。嫉妒、愤怒、被冒犯的自尊心，简而言之，所有这些激情都会对一个陷入爱情的愤怒女人的心产生争议，促使她说出真相。但她想到，如果她承认参与了这样的阴谋，她将彻底迷失，最重要的是，她也将永远失去达达尼昂。这最后的爱的想法劝告她做出最后的牺牲。

D’Artagnan, on his part, had gained the summit of all his wishes. It was no longer a rival who was beloved; it was himself who was apparently beloved. A secret voice whispered to him, at the bottom of his heart, that he was but an instrument of vengeance, that he was only caressed till he had given death; but pride, but self-love, but madness silenced this voice and stifled its murmurs. And then our Gascon, with that large quantity of conceit which we know he possessed, compared himself with de Wardes, and asked himself why, after all, he should not be beloved for himself?
达达尼昂则实现了他所有的愿望。被爱的不再是对手，而是被爱的人。显然，受人爱戴的是他自己。一个秘密的声音在他的心底低声对他说，他只是复仇的工具，他只是被爱抚，直到他死去；但骄傲、自爱和疯狂却让这个声音安静了下来，抑制了它的低语。然后，我们的加斯科尼带着我们知道他所拥有的那种自负，将自己与德瓦尔德进行了比较，并问自己，为什么他不应该为自己而受到爱戴？

He was absorbed entirely by the sensations of the moment. Milady was no longer for him that woman of fatal intentions who had for a moment terrified him; she was an ardent, passionate mistress, abandoning herself to love which she also seemed to feel. Two hours thus glided away. When the transports of the two lovers were calmer, Milady, who had not the same motives for forgetfulness that d’Artagnan had, was the first to return to reality, and asked the young man if the means which were on the morrow to bring on the encounter between him and de Wardes were already arranged in his mind.
他完全被这一刻的感觉所吸引。对他来说，米莱迪不再是那个曾一度让他感到恐惧、怀有致命意图的女人了。她是一位热心、热情的情妇，全身心地投入到爱情中，她似乎也感受到了这种感觉。两个小时就这样过去了。当两个恋人的心情平静下来时，米拉迪第一个回到现实，她不像达达尼昂那样有健忘的动机，她问年轻人明天有什么办法可以实现这一点。他和德瓦尔德的相遇，已经在他的脑海里安排好了。

But d’Artagnan, whose ideas had taken quite another course, forgot himself like a fool, and answered gallantly that it was too late to think about duels and sword thrusts.
但达达尼昂的思想却走了另一条路，他像个傻瓜一样忘记了自己，并勇敢地回答说，现在考虑决斗和剑刺已经太晚了。

This coldness toward the only interests that occupied her mind terrified Milady, whose questions became more pressing.
这种对她唯一关心的事情的冷漠让米莱迪感到害怕，她的问题变得更加紧迫。

Then d’Artagnan, who had never seriously thought of this impossible duel, endeavored to turn the conversation; but he could not succeed. Milady kept him within the limits she had traced beforehand with her irresistible spirit and her iron will.
达达尼昂从来没有认真考虑过这场不可能的决斗，他试图扭转话题。但他没能成功。米莱迪用她不可抗拒的精神和钢铁般的意志将他限制在她事先设定的范围内。

D’Artagnan fancied himself very cunning when advising Milady to renounce, by pardoning de Wardes, the furious projects she had formed.
当达达尼昂建议米莱迪通过赦免德瓦尔德而放弃她所制定的愤怒计划时，达达尼昂自以为非常狡猾。

But at the first word the young woman started, and exclaimed in a sharp, bantering tone, which sounded strangely in the darkness, ‘Are you afraid, dear Monsieur d’Artagnan?’
但听到第一个字，年轻女子就惊呆了，用尖锐、戏谑的语气喊道，这声音在黑暗中听起来很奇怪：“亲爱的达达尼昂先生，你害怕吗？”

‘You cannot think so, dear love!’ replied d’Artagnan; ‘but now, suppose this poor Comte de Wardes were less guilty than you think him?’
“你不能这么想，亲爱的！”达达尼昂回答道。 “但是现在，假设这个可怜的瓦尔德伯爵没有你想象的那么有罪呢？”

‘At all events,’ said Milady, seriously, ‘he has deceived me, and from the moment he deceived me, he merited death.’
“无论如何，”米莱迪严肃地说，“他欺骗了我，从他欺骗我的那一刻起，他就该死。”

‘He shall die, then, since you condemn him!’ said d’Artagnan, in so firm a tone that it appeared to Milady an undoubted proof of devotion. This reassured her.
“那么，既然你谴责他，他就该死！”达达尼昂说道，语气如此坚定，在米莱迪看来，这无疑是忠诚的证明。这让她放心了。

We cannot say how long the night seemed to Milady, but d’Artagnan believed it to be hardly two hours before the daylight peeped through the window blinds, and invaded the chamber with its paleness. Seeing d’Artagnan about to leave her, Milady recalled his promise to avenge her on the Comte de Wardes.
我们无法说这个夜晚对米莱迪来说有多长，但达达尼昂相信，还不到两个小时，日光就从百叶窗中探出，进入了苍白的房间。看到达达尼昂即将离开她，米莱迪想起他曾许诺要向瓦尔德伯爵报仇。

‘I am quite ready,’ said d’Artagnan; ‘but in the first place I should like to be certain of one thing.’
“我已经准备好了，”达达尼昂说。 “但首先我想确定一件事。”

‘And what is that?’ asked Milady.
“那是什么？”米莱迪问道。

‘That is, whether you really love me?’
“也就是说，你是否真的爱我？”

‘I have given you proof of that, it seems to me.’
“在我看来，我已经给了你证据。”

‘And I am yours, body and soul!’
“我的身体和灵魂都是你的！”

‘Thanks, my brave lover; but as you are satisfied of my love, you must, in your turn, satisfy me of yours. Is it not so?’
“谢谢，我勇敢的爱人；但既然你满足了我的爱，你也必须满足我的爱。不是这样吗？

‘Certainly; but if you love me as much as you say,’ replied d’Artagnan, ‘do you not entertain a little fear on my account?’
'当然; “但是，如果你像你所说的那样爱我，”达达尼昂回答说，“你难道不会因为我而感到一点恐惧吗？”

‘What have I to fear?’
“我有什么可害怕的？”

‘Why, that I may be dangerously wounded—killed even.’
“哎呀，我可能会受重伤，甚至被杀。”

‘Impossible!’ cried Milady, ‘you are such a valiant man, and such an expert swordsman.’
“不可能！”米莱迪喊道，“你是一个如此勇敢的人，也是一个如此熟练的剑客。”

‘You would not, then, prefer a method,’ resumed d’Artagnan, ‘which would equally avenge you while rendering the combat useless?’
“那么，你不会更喜欢一种方法，”达达尼昂继续说道，“既可以为你报仇，又可以使战斗变得毫无意义？”

Milady looked at her lover in silence. The pale light of the first rays of day gave to her clear eyes a strangely frightful expression.
米莱迪默默地看着自己的爱人。第一缕霞光的苍白给她清澈的眼睛带来一种奇怪的可怕的表情。

‘Really,’ said she, ‘I believe you now begin to hesitate.’
“真的，”她说，“我相信你现在开始犹豫了。”

‘No, I do not hesitate; but I really pity this poor Comte de Wardes, since you have ceased to love him. I think that a man must be so severely punished by the loss of your love that he stands in need of no other chastisement.’
“不，我不会犹豫；但我真的很可怜这个可怜的瓦尔德伯爵，因为你已经不再爱他了。我认为一个男人一定会因为失去你的爱而受到如此严厉的惩罚，以至于他不需要其他的惩罚。

‘Who told you that I loved him?’ asked Milady, sharply.
“谁告诉你我爱他的？”米莱迪尖锐地问道。

‘At least, I am now at liberty to believe, without too much fatuity, that you love another,’ said the young man, in a caressing tone, ‘and I repeat that I am really interested for the count.’
“至少，我现在可以自由地相信，没有太多愚蠢，你爱着另一个人，”年轻人用爱抚的语气说道，“我再说一遍，我真的对伯爵感兴趣。”

‘You?’ asked Milady.
“你？”米莱迪问。

‘Yes, I.’
'是的，我。'

‘And why YOU?’
“那为什么是你呢？”

‘Because I alone know—‘
“因为只有我知道——”

‘What?’
'什么？'

‘That he is far from being, or rather having been, so guilty toward you as he appears.’
“他远没有，或者更确切地说，没有像他表现出来的那样对你那么有罪。”

‘Indeed!’ said Milady, in an anxious tone; ‘explain yourself, for I really cannot tell what you mean.’
“确实如此！”米莱迪语气焦急地说。 “请解释一下，因为我实在听不懂你的意思。”

And she looked at d’Artagnan, who embraced her tenderly, with eyes which seemed to burn themselves away.
她看着达达尼昂，达达尼昂温柔地拥抱着她，目光似乎要燃烧殆尽。

‘Yes; I am a man of honor,’ said d’Artagnan, determined to come to an end, ‘and since your love is mine, and I am satisfied I possess it—for I do possess it, do I not?’
'是的;我是一个有荣誉感的人，”达达尼昂说道，决心要结束这一切，“既然你的爱是我的，我就满足于我拥有它——因为我确实拥有它，不是吗？

‘Entirely; go on.’
'完全;继续。'

‘Well, I feel as if transformed—a confession weighs on my mind.’
“嗯，我感觉自己好像变了——一份坦白压在我的心头。”

‘A confession!’
“坦白！”

‘If I had the least doubt of your love I would not make it, but you love me, my beautiful mistress, do you not?’
“如果我对你的爱有丝毫怀疑，我就不会这么做，但你爱我，我美丽的情妇，不是吗？”

‘Without doubt.’
'毫无疑问。'

‘Then if through excess of love I have rendered myself culpable toward you, you will pardon me?’
“那么，如果我因过度的爱而对你负有罪责，你会原谅我吗？”

‘Perhaps.’
'也许。'

D’Artagnan tried with his sweetest smile to touch his lips to Milady’s, but she evaded him.
达达尼昂试图用他最甜蜜的微笑来触碰米莱迪的嘴唇，但她避开了他。

‘This confession,’ said she, growing paler, ‘what is this confession?’
“这个供词，”她的脸色变得越来越苍白，“这个供词是什么？”

‘You gave de Wardes a meeting on Thursday last in this very room, did you not?’
“上周四你就在这个房间里给德瓦尔德开会了，不是吗？”

‘No, no! It is not true,’ said Milady, in a tone of voice so firm, and with a countenance so unchanged, that if d’Artagnan had not been in such perfect possession of the fact, he would have doubted.
'不，不！这不是真的。”米莱迪说道，语气如此坚决，面色却毫无变化，如果达达尼昂没有完全掌握事实，他一定会怀疑。

‘Do not lie, my angel,’ said d’Artagnan, smiling; ‘that would be useless.’
“别撒谎，我的天使，”达达尼昂微笑着说道。 “那是没用的。”

‘What do you mean? Speak! you kill me.’
'你是什么意思？说话！你杀了我。'

‘Be satisfied; you are not guilty toward me, and I have already pardoned you.’
'满意;你对我没有罪，我已经原谅你了。

‘What next? what next?’
'接下来是什么？接下来是什么？'

‘De Wardes cannot boast of anything.’
“德瓦尔德不能夸耀任何东西。”

‘How is that? You told me yourself that that ring—‘
'那个怎么样？你亲口告诉我那枚戒指——”

‘That ring I have! The Comte de Wardes of Thursday and the d’Artagnan of today are the same person.’
‘那枚戒指我有！星期四的瓦尔德伯爵和今天的达达尼昂是同一个人。

The imprudent young man expected a surprise, mixed with shame—a slight storm which would resolve itself into tears; but he was strangely deceived, and his error was not of long duration.
这个轻率的年轻人期待着一个惊喜，其中夹杂着羞愧——一场轻微的暴风雨最终会化为泪水。但奇怪的是，他被欺骗了，而且他的错误并没有持续很长时间。

Pale and trembling, Milady repulsed d’Artagnan’s attempted embrace by a violent blow on the chest, as she sprang out of bed.
米莱迪脸色苍白，浑身发抖，从床上跳了起来，她用力击打达达尼昂的胸部，拒绝了达达尼昂的拥抱。

It was almost broad daylight.
时间已经快到大白天了。

D’Artagnan detained her by her night dress of fine India linen, to implore her pardon; but she, with a strong movement, tried to escape. Then the cambric was torn from her beautiful shoulders; and on one of those lovely shoulders, round and white, d’Artagnan recognized, with inexpressible astonishment, the FLEUR-DE-LIS—that indelible mark which the hand of the infamous executioner had imprinted.
达达尼昂抓住她的精美印度亚麻睡衣，恳求她的原谅。但她却用力地想要逃跑。然后，细麻布从她美丽的肩膀上扯了下来。达达尼昂在其中一个圆润洁白的可爱肩膀上认出了百合花，这是臭名昭著的刽子手的手所留下的不可磨灭的痕迹，达达尼昂带着难以言表的惊讶认出了它。

‘Great God!’ cried d’Artagnan, loosing his hold of her dress, and remaining mute, motionless, and frozen.
“伟大的上帝！”达达尼昂喊道，松开了她的裙子，保持着沉默，一动不动，一动不动。

But Milady felt herself denounced even by his terror. He had doubtless seen all. The young man now knew her secret, her terrible secret—the secret she concealed even from her maid with such care, the secret of which all the world was ignorant, except himself.
但米莱迪觉得自己甚至被他的恐惧所谴责。毫无疑问，他已经看到了一切。年轻人现在知道了她的秘密，她可怕的秘密——她如此小心翼翼地向女仆隐瞒的秘密，除了他自己之外，全世界都不知道这个秘密。

She turned upon him, no longer like a furious woman, but like a wounded panther.
她转向他，不再像一个愤怒的女人，而是像一只受伤的黑豹。

‘Ah, wretch!’ cried she, ‘you have basely betrayed me, and still more, you have my secret! You shall die.’
“啊，可怜虫！”她叫道，“你卑鄙地背叛了我，而且你还掌握了我的秘密！”你会死的。

And she flew to a little inlaid casket which stood upon the dressing table, opened it with a feverish and trembling band, drew from it a small poniard, with a golden haft and a sharp thin blade, and then threw herself with a bound upon d’Artagnan.
她飞奔到梳妆台上的一个镶嵌着小棺材的地方，用一根狂热而颤抖的带子打开它，从里面抽出一把小匕首，有金色的柄和锋利的薄刃，然后跳到了床上。 '阿塔尼昂。

Although the young man was brave, as we know, he was terrified at that wild countenance, those terribly dilated pupils, those pale cheeks, and those bleeding lips. He recoiled to the other side of the room as he would have done from a serpent which was crawling toward him, and his sword coming in contact with his nervous hand, he drew it almost unconsciously from the scabbard. But without taking any heed of the sword, Milady endeavored to get near enough to him to stab him, and did not stop till she felt the sharp point at her throat.
正如我们所知，尽管这个年轻人很勇敢，但他对那张狂野的面容、那些放大得可怕的瞳孔、那些苍白的脸颊和那些流血的嘴唇感到害怕。他退到了房间的另一边，就像面对一条向他爬来的蛇时所做的那样，他的剑接触到了他紧张的手，他几乎无意识地将它从剑鞘中拔了出来。但米莱迪没有理会剑，努力靠近他刺伤他，直到感觉到尖锐的尖端抵在她的喉咙上才停下来。

She then tried to seize the sword with her hands; but d’Artagnan kept it free from her grasp, and presenting the point, sometimes at her eyes, sometimes at her breast, compelled her to glide behind the bedstead, while he aimed at making his retreat by the door which led to Kitty’s apartment.
然后她试图用手抓住剑，但没有成功。但达达尼昂不让她抓着它，有时对着她的眼睛，有时对着她的胸口，迫使她滑到床架后面，而他则打算从通向基蒂公寓的门旁撤退。

Milady during this time continued to strike at him with horrible fury, screaming in a formidable way.
米莱蒂此时继续以可怕的愤怒攻击着他，发出令人畏惧的尖叫声。

As all this, however, bore some resemblance to a duel, d’Artagnan began to recover himself little by little.
然而，这一切都有点像决斗，达达尼昂开始逐渐恢复过来。

‘Well, beautiful lady, very well,’ said he; ‘but, PARDIEU, if you don’t calm yourself, I will design a second FLEUR-DE-LIS upon one of those pretty cheeks!’
“好吧，美丽的女士，很好，”他说。 “但是，帕迪厄，如果你不冷静下来，我会在其中一张漂亮的脸颊上设计第二朵百合花！”

‘Scoundrel, infamous scoundrel!’ howled Milady.
“恶棍，臭名昭著的恶棍！”米莱迪吼道。

But d’Artagnan, still keeping on the defensive, drew near to Kitty’s door. At the noise they made, she in overturning the furniture in her efforts to get at him, he in screening himself behind the furniture to keep out of her reach, Kitty opened the door. D’Artagnan, who had unceasingly maneuvered to gain this point, was not at more than three paces from it. With one spring he flew from the chamber of Milady into that of the maid, and quick as lightning, he slammed to the door, and placed all his weight against it, while Kitty pushed the bolts.
但达达尼昂仍然处于守势，靠近基蒂的门。听到他们发出的噪音，她翻倒家具试图接近他，他把自己藏在家具后面，以免她够不到，基蒂打开了门。达达尼昂一直在不断地机动来获得这一点，但距离它不超过三步。他一跃从米莱迪的房间飞进女仆的房间，闪电般地猛地撞到门上，用全身的重量抵在门上，基蒂则推门闩。

Then Milady attempted to tear down the doorcase, with a strength apparently above that of a woman; but finding she could not accomplish this, she in her fury stabbed at the door with her poniard, the point of which repeatedly glittered through the wood. Every blow was accompanied with terrible imprecations.
然后米莱迪试图撕开门框，其力量显然超过了女人。但她发现自己无法做到这一点，于是愤怒地用匕首刺向门，匕首不断在木头上闪闪发光。每一次打击都伴随着可怕的咒语。

‘Quick, Kitty, quick!’ said d’Artagnan, in a low voice, as soon as the bolts were fast, ‘let me get out of the hotel; for if we leave her time to turn round, she will have me killed by the servants.’
“快点，凯蒂，快点！”螺栓一拧紧，达达尼昂就低声说道，“让我离开旅馆；快点，快点！”因为如果我们留她转身的时间，她就会让仆人杀了我。”

‘But you can’t go out so,’ said Kitty; ‘you are naked.’
“但是你不能这样出去，”基蒂说。 “你赤身裸体。”

‘That’s true,’ said d’Artagnan, then first thinking of the costume he found himself in, ‘that’s true. But dress me as well as you are able, only make haste; think, my dear girl, it’s life and death!’
“确实如此，”达达尼昂说道，然后首先想到了他自己穿的服装，“确实如此。”不过，请尽你所能给我穿好衣服，动作要快；想一想，我亲爱的女孩，这是生与死！

Kitty was but too well aware of that. In a turn of the hand she muffled him up in a flowered robe, a large hood, and a cloak. She gave him some slippers, in which he placed his naked feet, and then conducted him down the stairs. It was time. Milady had already rung her bell, and roused the whole hotel. The porter was drawing the cord at the moment Milady cried from her window, ‘Don’t open!’
凯蒂非常清楚这一点。她一转身，给他穿上了一件花袍、一顶大兜帽和一件斗篷。她给了他一双拖鞋，让他赤脚穿上，然后领着他下了楼梯。是时候了。米莱迪已经按响了门铃，吵醒了整个旅馆。门房正在拉绳子，这时米莱迪从窗外喊道：“别开门！”

The young man fled while she was still threatening him with an impotent gesture. The moment she lost sight of him, Milady tumbled fainting into her chamber.
当她仍用无能为力的手势威胁年轻人时，年轻人就逃跑了。米莱迪一看不见他，就晕倒在自己的房间里。

38 HOW, WITHOUT INCOMMODING HIMSELF, ATHOS PROCURES HIS EQUIPMENT
38 阿多斯如何在不妨碍自己的情况下采购他的设备

D’Artagnan was so completely bewildered that without taking any heed of what might become of Kitty he ran at full speed across half Paris, and did not stop till he came to Athos’s door. The confusion of his mind, the terror which spurred him on, the cries of some of the patrol who started in pursuit of him, and the hooting of the people who, notwithstanding the early hour, were going to their work, only made him precipitate his course.
达达尼昂完全不知所措，根本不顾基蒂的遭遇，全速跑过半个巴黎，直到来到阿多斯家门口才停下来。他的头脑一片混乱，恐惧驱使着他，一些追赶他的巡逻队的叫喊声，还有那些尽管时间还早，却要去干活的人们的叫喊声，都让他惊慌失措。他的课程。

He crossed the court, ran up the two flights to Athos’s apartment, and knocked at the door enough to break it down.
他穿过球场，跑上两层楼梯来到阿多斯的公寓，敲了敲门，把门打开了。

Grimaud came, rubbing his half-open eyes, to answer this noisy summons, and d’Artagnan sprang with such violence into the room as nearly to overturn the astonished lackey.
格里莫揉着半睁着的眼睛来回应这个喧闹的召唤，达达尼昂猛烈地冲进房间，几乎把惊讶的仆人推倒了。

In spite of his habitual silence, the poor lad this time found his speech.
尽管这个可怜的小伙子一向沉默寡言，但这次他终于找到了自己的发言机会。

‘Holloa, there!’ cried he; ‘what do you want, you strumpet? What’s your business here, you hussy?’
“喂，那里！”他喊道。 ‘你想要什么，你这个妓女？你来这里干什么，你这个女人？

D’Artagnan threw off his hood, and disengaged his hands from the folds of the cloak. At sight of the mustaches and the naked sword, the poor devil perceived he had to deal with a man. He then concluded it must be an assassin.
达达尼昂甩掉兜帽，把手从斗篷的褶皱中抽出来。看到胡须和光秃秃的剑，可怜的魔鬼意识到他必须对付一个人。然后他断定这一定是刺客。

‘Help! murder! help!’ cried he.
'帮助！谋杀！救命啊！”他喊道。

‘Hold your tongue, you stupid fellow!’ said the young man; ‘I am d’Artagnan; don’t you know me? Where is your master?’
“闭嘴，你这个蠢货！”年轻人说道。 “我是达达尼昂；你不认识我吗？你的主人在哪里？

‘You, Monsieur d’Artagnan!’ cried Grimaud, ‘impossible.’
“你，达达尼昂先生！”格里莫喊道，“不可能。”

‘Grimaud,’ said Athos, coming out of his apartment in a dressing gown, ‘Grimaud, I thought I heard you permitting yourself to speak?’
“格里莫，”阿托斯穿着晨衣从公寓里走出来，说道，“格里莫，我想我听到你允许自己说话了？”

‘Ah, monsieur, it is—‘
“啊，先生，是——”

‘Silence!’
'安静！'

Grimaud contented himself with pointing d’Artagnan out to his master with his finger.
格里莫满足于用手指将达达尼昂指向他的主人。

Athos recognized his comrade, and phlegmatic as he was, he burst into a laugh which was quite excused by the strange masquerade before his eyes—petticoats falling over his shoes, sleeves tucked up, and mustaches stiff with agitation.
阿多斯认出了他的战友，虽然他性格冷漠，但他突然大笑起来，他眼前的奇怪伪装完全可以原谅他——衬裙滑落到他的鞋子上，袖子卷起来，胡子因激动而僵硬。

‘Don’t laugh, my friend!’ cried d’Artagnan; ‘for heaven’s sake, don’t laugh, for upon my soul, it’s no laughing matter!’
“别笑，我的朋友！”达达尼昂喊道。 “看在老天爷的份上，别笑了，对我来说，这可不是开玩笑的事！”

And he pronounced these words with such a solemn air and with such a real appearance of terror, that Athos eagerly seized his hand, crying, ‘Are you wounded, my friend? How pale you are!’
他以如此庄严的神情和如此真实的恐惧说出这些话，阿多斯急切地抓住他的手，喊道：“你受伤了吗，我的朋友？你的脸色多么苍白啊！

‘No, but I have just met with a terrible adventure! Are you alone, Athos?’
“不，但我刚刚经历了一次可怕的冒险！”你一个人吗，阿托斯？

‘PARBLEU! whom do you expect to find with me at this hour?’
‘帕尔布鲁！你想在这个时间找到谁和我在一起？

‘Well, well!’ and d’Artagnan rushed into Athos’s chamber.
“好吧，好吧！”达达尼昂冲进阿托斯的房间。

‘Come, speak!’ said the latter, closing the door and bolting it, that they might not be disturbed. ‘Is the king dead? Have you killed the cardinal? You are quite upset! Come, come, tell me; I am dying with curiosity and uneasiness!’
“来吧，说话！”后者说着，关上门，锁上门，以免打扰他们。 ‘国王死了吗？你杀了红衣主教吗？你实在是太不爽了！来来来，告诉我；我快要因好奇和不安而死了！”

‘Athos,’ said d’Artagnan, getting rid of his female garments, and appearing in his shirt, ‘prepare yourself to hear an incredible, an unheard-of story.’
“阿多斯，”达达尼昂脱掉女装，穿着衬衫出现，“准备好听一个令人难以置信的、前所未闻的故事吧。”

‘Well, but put on this dressing gown first,’ said the Musketeer to his friend.
“好吧，但先穿上这件晨衣，”火枪手对他的朋友说。

D’Artagnan donned the robe as quickly as he could, mistaking one sleeve for the other, so greatly was he still agitated.
达达尼昂以最快的速度穿上长袍，把一只袖子误认为另一只袖子，他仍然非常激动。

‘Well?’ said Athos.
“怎么样？”阿托斯说。

‘Well,’ replied d’Artagnan, bending his mouth to Athos’s ear, and lowering his voice, ‘Milady is marked with a FLEUR-DE-LIS upon her shoulder!’
“好吧，”达达尼昂回答道，他把嘴凑到阿多斯的耳边，压低了声音，“米莱迪的肩膀上刻着一朵百合花！”

‘Ah!’ cried the Musketeer, as if he had received a ball in his heart.
“啊！”火枪手喊道，心里仿佛接到了一个球。

‘Let us see,’ said d’Artagnan. ‘Are you SURE that the OTHER is dead?’
“让我们看看，”达达尼昂说。 “你确定对方已经死了吗？”

‘THE OTHER?’ said Athos, in so stifled a voice that d’Artagnan scarcely heard him.
“另一个人？”阿托斯问道，他的声音如此压抑，达达尼昂几乎听不见他的声音。

‘Yes, she of whom you told me one day at Amiens.’
“是的，就是你有一天在亚眠告诉我的她。”

Athos uttered a groan, and let his head sink on his hands.
阿托斯发出一声呻吟，将头埋在双手上。

‘This is a woman of twenty-six or twenty-eight years.’
“这是一个二十六或二十八岁的女人。”

‘Fair,’ said Athos, ‘is she not?’
“公平，”阿托斯说，“她不是吗？”

‘Very.’
'非常。'

‘Blue and clear eyes, of a strange brilliancy, with black eyelids and eyebrows?’
“蓝色而清澈的眼睛，有一种奇怪的光彩，还有黑色的眼睑和眉毛？”

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘Tall, well-made? She has lost a tooth, next to the eyetooth on the left?’
‘个子高，身材好？她掉了一颗牙齿，就在左边的牙旁边？”

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘The FLEUR-DE-LIS is small, rosy in color, and looks as if efforts had been made to efface it by the application of poultices?’
“百合花很小，颜色呈玫瑰色，看起来好像是用药膏抹掉了它？”

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘But you say she is English?’
“但你说她是英国人？”

‘She is called Milady, but she may be French. Lord de Winter is only her brother-in-law,’
“她叫米莱迪，但她可能是法国人。德温特勋爵只是她的姐夫，”

‘I will see her, d’Artagnan!’
“我会见到她，达达尼昂！”

‘Beware, Athos, beware. You tried to kill her; she is a woman to return you the like, and not to fail.’
“当心，阿托斯，当心。你试图杀死她；她是一个会回报你的女人，而不是失败的女人。

‘She will not dare to say anything; that would be to denounce herself.’
‘她什么也不敢说；那就是谴责她自己。

‘She is capable of anything or everything. Did you ever see her furious?’
‘她有能力做任何事情。你见过她生气吗？

‘No,’ said Athos.
“不，”阿托斯说。

‘A tigress, a panther! Ah, my dear Athos, I am greatly afraid I have drawn a terrible vengeance on both of us!’
‘母老虎，黑豹！啊，我亲爱的阿托斯，我很担心我对我们俩都造成了可怕的报复！

D’Artagnan then related all—the mad passion of Milady and her menaces of death.
达达尼昂随后讲述了一切——米莱迪的疯狂激情和她的死亡威胁。

‘You are right; and upon my soul, I would give my life for a hair,’ said Athos. ‘Fortunately, the day after tomorrow we leave Paris. We are going according to all probability to La Rochelle, and once gone—‘
'你是对的;阿多斯说：“我愿意用我的灵魂换一根头发。” ‘还好，后天我们就要离开巴黎了。我们很有可能要去拉罗谢尔，一旦走了——”

‘She will follow you to the end of the world, Athos, if she recognizes you. Let her, then, exhaust her vengeance on me alone!’
“阿多斯，如果她认出你，她就会跟着你到世界的尽头。”那么，就让她一个人向我报仇吧！

‘My dear friend, of what consequence is it if she kills me?’ said Athos. ‘Do you, perchance, think I set any great store by life?’
“我亲爱的朋友，如果她杀了我，会有什么后果呢？”阿托斯说道。 “你也许认为我非常重视生命吗？”

‘There is something horribly mysterious under all this, Athos; this woman is one of the cardinal’s spies, I am sure of that.’
“阿托斯，这一切的背后隐藏着某种可怕的神秘事物；这个女人是红衣主教的间谍之一，我确信这一点。

‘In that case, take care! If the cardinal does not hold you in high admiration for the affair of London, he entertains a great hatred for you; but as, considering everything, he cannot accuse you openly, and as hatred must be satisfied, particularly when it’s a cardinal’s hatred, take care of yourself. If you go out, do not go out alone; when you eat, use every precaution. Mistrust everything, in short, even your own shadow.’
‘既然如此，你可要小心了！如果红衣主教对伦敦的事情不高度赞赏你，他就会对你怀有极大的仇恨；但考虑到一切，他不能公开指责你，而且仇恨必须得到满足，特别是当它是红衣主教的仇恨时，你要照顾好自己。如果外出，不要单独外出；吃饭时，采取一切预防措施。不相信一切，简而言之，甚至包括你自己的影子。

‘Fortunately,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘all this will be only necessary till after tomorrow evening, for when once with the army, we shall have, I hope, only men to dread.’
“幸运的是，”达达尼昂说，“这一切只需要在明天晚上之后进行，因为一旦我们与军队在一起，我希望，我们将只剩下可怕的人。”

‘In the meantime,’ said Athos, ‘I renounce my plan of seclusion, and wherever you go, I will go with you. You must return to the Rue des Fossoyeurs; I will accompany you.’
“与此同时，”阿托斯说道，“我放弃了隐居计划，无论你去哪里，我都会和你一起去。您必须返回 Rue des Fossoyeurs；我会陪你。

‘But however near it may be,’ replied d’Artagnan, ‘I cannot go thither in this guise.’
“但不管它有多近，”达达尼昂回答说，“我不能以这种伪装去那里。”

‘That’s true,’ said Athos, and he rang the bell.
“确实如此，”阿托斯说，然后他按响了门铃。

Grimaud entered.
格里莫进来了。

Athos made him a sign to go to d’Artagnan’s residence, and bring back some clothes. Grimaud replied by another sign that he understood perfectly, and set off.
阿托斯示意他去达达尼昂的住处，带回一些衣服。格里莫又做了一个表示他完全理解的手势，然后出发了。

‘All this will not advance your outfit,’ said Athos; ‘for if I am not mistaken, you have left the best of your apparel with Milady, and she will certainly not have the politeness to return it to you. Fortunately, you have the sapphire.’
“所有这些都不会提升你的服装，”阿托斯说；“ “如果我没记错的话，你把最好的衣服留给了米莱迪，她肯定不会有礼貌地把它还给你。幸运的是，你有蓝宝石。”

‘The jewel is yours, my dear Athos! Did you not tell me it was a family jewel?’
“这颗宝石是你的，我亲爱的阿托斯！你没告诉我这是一件家​​族珠宝吗？

‘Yes, my grandfather gave two thousand crowns for it, as he once told me. It formed part of the nuptial present he made his wife, and it is magnificent. My mother gave it to me, and I, fool as I was, instead of keeping the ring as a holy relic, gave it to this wretch.’
“是的，正如我祖父曾经告诉我的那样，我的祖父为此付出了两千克朗。这是他为妻子制作的结婚礼物的一部分，非常华丽。我母亲把它给了我，而我，尽管我是个傻瓜，并没有把戒指当作圣物保留，而是把它给了这个可怜虫。

‘Then, my friend, take back this ring, to which I see you attach much value.’
“那么，我的朋友，请收回这枚戒指，我看你很看重它。”

‘I take back the ring, after it has passed through the hands of that infamous creature? Never; that ring is defiled, d’Artagnan.’
“戒指经过那个臭名昭著的生物之手后，我要收回它吗？”绝不;那枚戒指被玷污了，达达尼昂。”

‘Sell it, then.’
“那就卖掉吧。”

‘Sell a jewel which came from my mother! I vow I should consider it a profanation.’
‘卖掉我母亲的珠宝！我发誓我应该认为这是一种亵渎。

‘Pledge it, then; you can borrow at least a thousand crowns on it. With that sum you can extricate yourself from your present difficulties; and when you are full of money again, you can redeem it, and take it back cleansed from its ancient stains, as it will have passed through the hands of usurers.’
‘那就发誓吧；你至少可以借到一千克朗。有了这笔钱，你就可以摆脱目前的困难；当你再次充满金钱时，你可以赎回它，并把它从古老的污点中清除出来，就像它经过高利贷者的手一样。

Athos smiled.
阿托斯笑了。

‘You are a capital companion, d’Artagnan,’ said be; ‘your never-failing cheerfulness raises poor souls in affliction. Well, let us pledge the ring, but upon one condition.’
“达达尼昂，你是一位伟大的同伴，”贝说道。 ‘你永不枯竭的快乐使可怜的灵魂陷入苦难。好吧，让我们承诺戒指，但有一个条件。”

‘What?’
'什么？'

‘That there shall be five hundred crowns for you, and five hundred crowns for me.’
“五百克朗给你，五百克朗给我。”

‘Don’t dream it, Athos. I don’t need the quarter of such a sum—I who am still only in the Guards—and by selling my saddles, I shall procure it. What do I want? A horse for Planchet, that’s all. Besides, you forget that I have a ring likewise.’
“别做梦了，阿托斯。我不需要这笔钱的四分之一——我还只是在近卫军中——通过卖掉我的马鞍，我可以得到它。我想要什么？普朗切特的一匹马，仅此而已。再说了，你忘了我也有一枚戒指。”

‘To which you attach more value, it seems, than I do to mine; at least, I have thought so.’
“看来你对它的重视程度比我对我的的重视程度更高；至少，我是这么认为的。

‘Yes, for in any extreme circumstance it might not only extricate us from some great embarrassment, but even a great danger. It is not only a valuable diamond, but it is an enchanted talisman.’
“是的，因为在任何极端情况下，它不仅可能使我们摆脱某种巨大的尴尬，甚至可能使我们摆脱巨大的危险。它不仅是一颗珍贵的钻石，而且还是一个迷人的护身符。”

‘I don’t at all understand you, but I believe all you say to be true. Let us return to my ring, or rather to yours. You shall take half the sum that will be advanced upon it, or I will throw it into the Seine; and I doubt, as was the case with Polycrates, whether any fish will be sufficiently complaisant to bring it back to us.’
“我完全不明白你的意思，但我相信你说的都是真的。让我们回到我的戒指上，或者更确切地说，回到你的戒指上。你将接受预付金额的一半，否则我将把它扔进塞纳河；我怀疑，就像波利克拉特斯的情况一样，是否有鱼会足够顺从地把它带回给我们。

‘Well, I will take it, then,’ said d’Artagnan.
“好吧，那我就接受了，”达达尼昂说。

At this moment Grimaud returned, accompanied by Planchet; the latter, anxious about his master and curious to know what had happened to him, had taken advantage of the opportunity and brought the garments himself.
这时，格里莫回来了，普兰谢也跟着回来了。后者担心他的主人，也想知道他发生了什么事，于是趁这个机会亲自带来了衣服。

d’Artagnan dressed himself, and Athos did the same. When the two were ready to go out, the latter made Grimaud the sign of a man taking aim, and the lackey immediately took down his musketoon, and prepared to follow his master.
达达尼昂穿好衣服，阿托斯也穿好衣服。当两人准备出去时，后者向格里莫做了一个瞄准的手势，走狗立即取下了自己的火枪，准备跟随他的主人。

They arrived without accident at the Rue des Fossoyeurs. Bonacieux was standing at the door, and looked at d’Artagnan hatefully.
他们毫无意外地到达了福索耶街。博纳希厄站在门口，恨恨地看着达达尼昂。

‘Make haste, dear lodger,’ said he; ‘there is a very pretty girl waiting for you upstairs; and you know women don’t like to be kept waiting.’
“快点，亲爱的房客，”他说。 ‘有一个非常漂亮的女孩在楼上等你；你知道女人不喜欢一直等待。”

‘That’s Kitty!’ said d’Artagnan to himself, and darted into the passage.
“那是基蒂！”达达尼昂自言自语道，然后冲进了通道。

Sure enough! Upon the landing leading to the chamber, and crouching against the door, he found the poor girl, all in a tremble. As soon as she perceived him, she cried, ‘You have promised your protection; you have promised to save me from her anger. Remember, it is you who have ruined me!’
果然！在通往房间的楼梯平台上，他蹲在门边，发现那个可怜的女孩浑身发抖。她一看到他，就喊道：“你已经答应保护你了；你答应过要救我脱离她的愤怒。记住，是你毁了我！”

‘Yes, yes, to be sure, Kitty,’ said d’Artagnan; ‘be at ease, my girl. But what happened after my departure?’
“是的，是的，当然，基蒂，”达达尼昂说。 ‘放心吧，我的女孩。但我离开后发生了什么？

‘How can I tell!’ said Kitty. ‘The lackeys were brought by the cries she made. She was mad with passion. There exist no imprecations she did not pour out against you. Then I thought she would remember it was through my chamber you had penetrated hers, and that then she would suppose I was your accomplice; so I took what little money I had and the best of my things, and I got away.
“我怎么知道呢！”基蒂说。 ‘走狗们被她的叫声吸引了。她因激情而疯狂。她对你的咒骂无一不是。然后我想她会记得你是通过我的房间进入她的房间的，然后她会认为我是你的同谋；于是我带着仅有的一点钱和最好的东西逃走了。

‘Poor dear girl! But what can I do with you? I am going away the day after tomorrow.’
‘可怜的亲爱的女孩！但我能对你做什么呢？我后天就要离开。

‘Do what you please, Monsieur Chevalier. Help me out of Paris; help me out of France!’
“随你便吧，骑士先生。”帮我离开巴黎；帮我离开法国！”

‘I cannot take you, however, to the siege of La Rochelle,’ aid d’Artagnan.
“但是，我不能带你去围攻拉罗谢尔，”达达尼昂说道。

‘No; but you can place me in one of the provinces with some lady of your acquaintance—in your own country, for instance.’
'不;但你可以把我安排在一个省份，和你认识的一位女士在一起——比如在你自己的国家。

‘My dear little love! In my country the ladies do without chambermaids. But stop! I can manage your business for you. Planchet, go and find Aramis. Request him to come here directly. We have something very important to say to him.’
‘我亲爱的小爱！在我的国家，女士们没有女服务员。但是停下来！我可以为你管理你的生意。普兰切特，去找阿拉米斯。请他直接过来。我们有非常重要的事情要对他说。

‘I understand,’ said Athos; ‘but why not Porthos? I should have thought that his duchess—‘
“我明白，”阿托斯说。 “但为什么波托斯不呢？我应该以为他的公爵夫人——”

‘Oh, Porthos’s duchess is dressed by her husband’s clerks,’ said d’Artagnan, laughing. ‘Besides, Kitty would not like to live in the Rue aux Ours. Isn’t it so, Kitty?’
“哦，波尔托斯的公爵夫人是由她丈夫的职员穿的，”达达尼昂笑着说。 “此外，基蒂不想住在我们的街上。不是这样吗，基蒂？

‘I do not care where I live,’ said Kitty, ‘provided I am well concealed, and nobody knows where I am.’
“我不在乎我住在哪里，”基蒂说，“只要我隐藏得很好，没人知道我在哪里。”

‘Meanwhile, Kitty, when we are about to separate, and you are no longer jealous of me—‘
“与此同时，基蒂，当我们即将分开时，你不再嫉妒我了——”

‘Monsieur Chevalier, far off or near,’ said Kitty, ‘I shall always love you.’
“骑士先生，无论远近，”基蒂说，“我将永远爱你。”

‘Where the devil will constancy niche itself next?’ murmured Athos.
“魔鬼接下来会在哪里安稳地立足呢？”阿托斯低声说道。

‘And I, also,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘I also. I shall always love you; be sure of that. But now answer me. I attach great importance to the question I am about to put to you. Did you never hear talk of a young woman who was carried off one night?’
“我也，”达达尼昂说，“我也。”我将永远爱你；请确定这一点。但现在请回答我。我非常重视我要向你提出的问题。你从来没有听说过一位年轻女子一天晚上被带走的事吗？

‘There, now! Oh, Monsieur Chevalier, do you love that woman still?’
'就是现在！哦，骑士先生，你还爱那个女人吗？

‘No, no; it is one of my friends who loves her—Monsieur Athos, this gentleman here.’
'不，不;是我的一位朋友爱她——阿托斯先生，这位绅士。

‘I?’ cried Athos, with an accent like that of a man who perceives he is about to tread upon an adder.
“我？”阿托斯喊道，他的口音就像一个意识到自己即将踩到毒蛇的人。

‘You, to be sure!’ said d’Artagnan, pressing Athos’s hand. ‘You know the interest we both take in this poor little Madame Bonacieux. Besides, Kitty will tell nothing; will you, Kitty? You understand, my dear girl,’ continued d’Artagnan, ‘she is the wife of that frightful baboon you saw at the door as you came in.’
“当然是你！”达达尼昂一边说，一边握住阿托斯的手。 “你知道我们都对这个可怜的小博纳瑟夫人很感兴趣。此外，基蒂什么也不会说。你愿意吗，基蒂？你明白，我亲爱的女孩，”达达尼昂继续说道，“她是你进来时在门口看到的那只可怕狒狒的妻子。”

‘Oh, my God! You remind me of my fright! If he should have known me again!’
'我的天啊！你让我想起了我的恐惧！如果他能再次认识我就好了！

‘How? know you again? Did you ever see that man before?’
'如何？又认识你了？你以前见过那个人吗？

‘He came twice to Milady’s.’
“他来过米莱迪家两次。”

‘That’s it. About what time?’
'就是这样。大约什么时间？

‘Why, about fifteen or eighteen days ago.’
“哦，大约十五天或十八天前。”

‘Exactly so.’
'正是如此。'

‘And yesterday evening he came again.’
“昨天晚上他又来了。”

‘Yesterday evening?’
“昨天晚上？”

‘Yes, just before you came.’
“是的，就在你来之前。”

‘My dear Athos, we are enveloped in a network of spies. And do you believe he knew you again, Kitty?’
“我亲爱的阿托斯，我们被间谍网络包围了。你相信他又认识你了吗，基蒂？

‘I pulled down my hood as soon as I saw him, but perhaps it was too late.’
“我一看到他就拉下了兜帽，但也许为时已晚。”

‘Go down, Athos—he mistrusts you less than me—and see if he be still at his door.’
“下去吧，阿多斯——他对你的不信任程度还不如对我的信任程度——看看他是否还在门口。”

Athos went down and returned immediately.
阿托斯下去，立刻就回来了。

‘He has gone,’ said he, ‘and the house door is shut.’
“他走了，”他说，“门也关上了。”

‘He has gone to make his report, and to say that all the pigeons are at this moment in the dovecot.’
“他去报告了，并说所有的鸽子此时都在鸽舍里。”

‘Well, then, let us all fly,’ said Athos, ‘and leave nobody here but Planchet to bring us news.’
“好吧，那么，让我们都飞吧，”阿托斯说，“除了普朗切特之外，不要留下任何人在这里给我们带来消息。”

‘A minute. Aramis, whom we have sent for!’
'一分钟。阿拉米斯，我们已经派人去请他了！

‘That’s true,’ said Athos; ‘we must wait for Aramis.’
“确实如此，”阿托斯说。 “我们必须等待阿拉米斯。”

At that moment Aramis entered.
就在这时，阿拉米斯走了进来。

The matter was all explained to him, and the friends gave him to understand that among all his high connections he must find a place for Kitty.
事情全都向他解释了，朋友们让他明白，他必须在他所有的高层关系中为基蒂找到一席之地。

Aramis reflected for a minute, and then said, coloring, ‘Will it be really rendering you a service, d’Artagnan?’
阿拉米斯沉思了一会儿，然后红着脸说道：“这真的能为你服务吗，达达尼昂？”

‘I shall be grateful to you all my life.’
“我一生都会感激你。”

‘Very well. Madame de Bois-Tracy asked me, for one of her friends who resides in the provinces, I believe, for a trustworthy maid. If you can, my dear d’Artagnan, answer for Mademoiselle-”
'很好。我相信，德布瓦-特雷西夫人向我寻找一位住在外省的朋友，寻找一位值得信赖的女仆。如果可以的话，我亲爱的达达尼昂，请为小姐负责——”

‘Oh, monsieur, be assured that I shall be entirely devoted to the person who will give me the means of quitting Paris.’
“哦，先生，请放心，我将完全献身于那个能给我离开巴黎的方法的人。”

‘Then,’ said Aramis, ‘this falls out very well.’
“那么，”阿拉米斯说，“结果非常好。”

He placed himself at the table and wrote a little note which he sealed with a ring, and gave the billet to Kitty.
他坐在桌子旁，写了一张小纸条，用戒指封好，然后把坯子交给了基蒂。

‘And now, my dear girl,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘you know that it is not good for any of us to be here. Therefore let us separate. We shall meet again in better days.’
“现在，我亲爱的女孩，”达达尼昂说，“你知道我们在这里对任何人都不好。因此，让我们分开吧。我们会在更好的日子里再次见面。

‘And whenever we find each other, in whatever place it may be,’ said Kitty, ‘you will find me loving you as I love you today.’
“每当我们找到彼此，无论在什么地方，”基蒂说，“你都会发现我爱你，就像我今天爱你一样。”

‘Dicers’ oaths!’ said Athos, while d’Artagnan went to conduct Kitty downstairs.
“切丁者的誓言！”阿多斯说道，而达达尼昂则带着基蒂下了楼。

An instant afterward the three young men separated, agreeing to meet again at four o’clock with Athos, and leaving Planchet to guard the house.
不久之后，三个年轻人分开了，同意在四点钟与阿多斯再次会面，并留下普朗切特看守房子。

Aramis returned home, and Athos and d’Artagnan busied themselves about pledging the sapphire.
阿拉米斯回到家，阿托斯和达达尼昂忙着抵押蓝宝石。

As the Gascon had foreseen, they easily obtained three hundred pistoles on the ring. Still further, the Jew told them that if they would sell it to him, as it would make a magnificent pendant for earrings, he would give five hundred pistoles for it.
正如加斯科涅人所预料的那样，他们在擂台上轻而易举地获得了三百皮斯托尔。更进一步，犹太人告诉他们，如果他们愿意把它卖给他，因为它可以做成一个华丽的耳环吊坠，他愿意出五百皮斯托尔。

Athos and d’Artagnan, with the activity of two soldiers and the knowledge of two connoisseurs, hardly required three hours to purchase the entire equipment of the Musketeer. Besides, Athos was very easy, and a noble to his fingers’ ends. When a thing suited him he paid the price demanded, without thinking to ask for any abatement. D’Artagnan would have remonstrated at this; but Athos put his hand upon his shoulder, with a smile, and d’Artagnan understood that it was all very well for such a little Gascon gentleman as himself to drive a bargain, but not for a man who had the bearing of a prince. The Musketeer met with a superb Andalusian horse, black as jet, nostrils of fire, legs clean and elegant, rising six years. He examined him, and found him sound and without blemish. They asked a thousand livres for him.
阿托斯和达达尼昂凭借两个士兵的行动和两个鉴赏家的知识，几乎不需要三个小时就购买了火枪手的全部装备。此外，阿托斯很随和，而且是一位彻头彻尾的贵族。当一件东西适合他时，他就支付所要求的价格，而不考虑要求任何折扣。达达尼昂可能会对此提出抗议。阿多斯微笑着把手放在他的肩膀上，达达尼昂明白，对于像他这样的加斯科涅小绅士来说，讨价还价是很好的，但对于一个有王子气质的人来说就不行了。火枪手遇见了一匹极好的安达卢西亚马，黑如墨玉，鼻孔火红，双腿干净优雅，已经成长了六年。他检查了他，发现他身体健康，没有任何瑕疵。他们为他要价一千里弗。

He might perhaps have been bought for less; but while d’Artagnan was discussing the price with the dealer, Athos was counting out the money on the table.
也许他是被以更低的价格买下的。但当达达尼昂与经销商讨论价格时，阿托斯正在数桌子上的钱。

Grimaud had a stout, short Picard cob, which cost three hundred livres.
格里莫有一根又粗又短的皮卡德玉米棒子，价值三百里弗。

But when the saddle and arms for Grimaud were purchased, Athos had not a sou left of his hundred and fifty pistoles. d’Artagnan offered his friend a part of his share which he should return when convenient.
但当格里莫购买了马鞍和武器时，阿多斯的一百五十皮枪已经所剩无几了。达达尼昂向他的朋友提供了他的一部分份额，他应该在方便的时候归还。

But Athos only replied to this proposal by shrugging his shoulders.
但阿托斯只是耸耸肩回应了这个提议。

‘How much did the Jew say he would give for the sapphire if be purchased it?’ said Athos.
“犹太人说，如果有人购买这颗蓝宝石，他愿意出多少钱？”阿托斯说道。

‘Five hundred pistoles.’
“五百皮斯托尔。”

‘That is to say, two hundred more—a hundred pistoles for you and a hundred pistoles for me. Well, now, that would be a real fortune to us, my friend; let us go back to the Jew’s again.’
“也就是说，还有两百皮斯托——你一百皮斯托，我一百皮斯托。”好吧，现在，这对我们来说将是一笔真正的财富，我的朋友；让我们再次回到犹太人那里吧。

‘What! will you—‘
'什么！你会-'

‘This ring would certainly only recall very bitter remembrances; then we shall never be masters of three hundred pistoles to redeem it, so that we really should lose two hundred pistoles by the bargain. Go and tell him the ring is his, d’Artagnan, and bring back the two hundred pistoles with you.’
“这枚戒指肯定只能唤起非常痛苦的回忆；那么我们就永远不可能成为用三百皮斯托来赎回它的主人，这样我们就真的会因讨价还价而损失两百皮斯托。达达尼昂，去告诉他戒指是他的，然后把两百皮斯托尔带回来。

‘Reflect, Athos!’
“反思一下，阿托斯！”

‘Ready money is needful for the present time, and we must learn how to make sacrifices. Go, d’Artagnan, go; Grimaud will accompany you with his musketoon.’
“现在需要现成的钱，我们必须学会如何做出牺牲。”走吧，达达尼昂，走吧；格里莫会带着他的步枪陪伴你。”

A half hour afterward, d’Artagnan returned with the two thousand livres, and without having met with any accident.
半小时后，达达尼昂带着两千里弗回来了，没有遇到任何意外。

It was thus Athos found at home resources which he did not expect.
因此，阿托斯在家里发现了他没想到的资源。

39 A VISION
39 愿景

At four o’clock the four friends were all assembled with Athos. Their anxiety about their outfits had all disappeared, and each countenance only preserved the expression of its own secret disquiet—for behind all present happiness is concealed a fear for the future.
四点钟，四个朋友都和阿多斯聚集在一起。他们对自己着装的担忧全都消失了，每个人的脸上都只保留着各自隐秘的不安的表情——因为所有眼前的幸福背后都隐藏着对未来的恐惧。

Suddenly Planchet entered, bringing two letters for d’Artagnan.
突然普朗歇进来了，给达达尼昂带来了两封信。

The one was a little billet, genteelly folded, with a pretty seal in green wax on which was impressed a dove bearing a green branch.
那是一块小坯料，被优雅地折叠起来，上面有一个漂亮的绿蜡封印，上面印着一只带着绿色树枝的鸽子。

The other was a large square epistle, resplendent with the terrible arms of his Eminence the cardinal duke.
另一封是一封大的方形书信，上面有红衣公爵大人那可怕的纹章，金碧辉煌。

At the sight of the little letter the heart of d’Artagnan bounded, for he believed he recognized the handwriting, and although he had seen that writing but once, the memory of it remained at the bottom of his heart.
看到这封小信，达达尼昂的心一跳，因为他相信自己认出了那笔字，虽然他只见过那封信一次，但它的记忆却留在了他的心底。

He therefore seized the little epistle, and opened it eagerly.
于是，他抓起那封小信，迫不及待地打开。

‘Be,’ said the letter, ‘on Thursday next, at from six to seven o’clock in the evening, on the road to Chaillot, and look carefully into the carriages that pass; but if you have any consideration for your own life or that of those who love you, do not speak a single word, do not make a movement which may lead anyone to believe you have recognized her who exposes herself to everything for the sake of seeing you but for an instant.’
信中写道：“下周四，晚上六点到七点，在去夏约的路上，仔细看看经过的马车；但如果你对自己或爱你的人的生命有一点考虑，就不要说一句话，不要做出任何动作，以免让任何人相信你认出了她，为了看到她而暴露在一切之中。你只是一瞬间。

No signature.
没有签名。

‘That’s a snare,’ said Athos; ‘don’t go, d’Artagnan.’
“那是一个圈套，”阿托斯说。 “别走，达达尼昂。”

‘And yet,’ replied d’Artagnan, ‘I think I recognize the writing.’
“然而，”达达尼昂回答道，“我想我认得上面的字迹。”

‘It may be counterfeit,’ said Athos. ‘Between six and seven o’clock the road of Chaillot is quite deserted; you might as well go and ride in the forest of Bondy.’
“这可能是假的，”阿托斯说。 “六点到七点之间，夏乐路的路非常冷清；你不妨去邦迪森林里骑马。”

‘But suppose we all go,’ said d’Artagnan; ‘what the devil! They won’t devour us all four, four lackeys, horses, arms, and all!’
“但是假设我们都走了，”达达尼昂说。 ‘什么鬼啊！他们不会把我们四个人、四个走狗、马匹、武器，以及所有的东西都吃掉！”

‘And besides, it will be a chance for displaying our new equipments,’ said Porthos.
“此外，这将是展示我们新设备的机会，”波托斯说。

‘But if it is a woman who writes,’ said Aramis, ‘and that woman desires not to be seen, remember, you compromise her, d’Artagnan; which is not the part of a gentleman.’
“但是，如果是一个女人在写作，”阿​​拉米斯说，“而那个女人又不想被人看见，那么记住，你就妥协了她，达达尼昂；这不是绅士该做的事。”

‘We will remain in the background,’ said Porthos, ‘and he will advance alone.’
“我们将留在幕后，”波托斯说，“而他将独自前进。”

‘Yes; but a pistol shot is easily fired from a carriage which goes at a gallop.’
'是的;但从一辆疾驰的马车上很容易发射手枪子弹。

‘Bah!’ said d’Artagnan, ‘they will miss me; if they fire we will ride after the carriage, and exterminate those who may be in it. They must be enemies.’
“呸！”达达尼昂说道，“他们会想念我的；如果他们开火，我们将追赶马车，并消灭马车里的人。他们一定是敌人。

‘He is right,’ said Porthos; ‘battle. Besides, we must try our own arms.’
“他是对的，”波托斯说。 '战斗。此外，我们必须尝试自己的武器。

‘Bah, let us enjoy that pleasure,’ said Aramis, with his mild and careless manner.
“呸，让我们享受这种快乐吧。”阿拉米斯语气温和而漫不经心地说。

‘As you please,’ said Athos.
“随你便吧，”阿托斯说。

‘Gentlemen,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘it is half past four, and we have scarcely time to be on the road of Chaillot by six.’
“先生们，”达达尼昂说道，“现在已经是四点半了，我们几乎没有时间在六点钟之前赶上夏约路上。”

‘Besides, if we go out too late, nobody will see us,’ said Porthos, ‘and that will be a pity. Let us get ready, gentlemen.’
“此外，如果我们出去得太晚，没有人会看到我们，”波托斯说，“那就太可惜了。”先生们，让我们做好准备吧。

‘But this second letter,’ said Athos, ‘you forget that; it appears to me, however, that the seal denotes that it deserves to be opened. For my part, I declare, d’Artagnan, I think it of much more consequence than the little piece of waste paper you have so cunningly slipped into your bosom.’
“但是第二封信，”阿多斯说，“你忘了这一点；然而，在我看来，封印表明它值得被打开。就我而言，我声明，达达尼昂，我认为这比你巧妙地塞进怀里的那张小废纸要重要得多。

D’Artagnan blushed.
达达尼昂脸红了。

‘Well,’ said he, ‘let us see, gentlemen, what are his Eminence’s commands,’ and d’Artagnan unsealed the letter and read,
“好吧，”他说，“先生们，让我们看看大人的命令是什么。”达达尼昂打开信封，读道：

‘M. d’Artagnan, of the king’s Guards, company Dessessart, is expected at the Palais-Cardinal this evening, at eight o’clock.
'M。国王卫队 Dessessart 连队的达达尼昂预计将于今晚八点到达红衣主教宫。

‘La Houdiniere, CAPTAIN OF THE GUARDS”
“拉胡迪尼尔，卫兵队长”

‘The devil!’ said Athos; ‘here’s a rendezvous much more serious than the other.’
“魔鬼！”阿托斯说道。 “这里的约会比其他约会要严肃得多。”

‘I will go to the second after attending the first,’ said d’Artagnan. ‘One is for seven o’clock, and the other for eight; there will be time for both.’
“参加完第一场比赛后，我将去第二场比赛，”达达尼昂说。 ‘一个是七点钟，一个是八点钟；两者都有时间。

‘Hum! I would not go at all,’ said Aramis. ‘A gallant knight cannot decline a rendezvous with a lady; but a prudent gentleman may excuse himself from not waiting on his Eminence, particularly when he has reason to believe he is not invited to make his compliments.’
'哼！我根本不会去，”阿拉米斯说。 “英勇的骑士不能拒绝与女士的会面；但是，一位谨慎的绅士可能会为自己不等待陛下找借口，特别是当他有理由相信自己没有被邀请致意时。

‘I am of Aramis’s opinion,’ said Porthos.
“我同意阿拉米斯的意见，”波托斯说。

‘Gentlemen,’ replied d’Artagnan, ‘I have already received by Monsieur de Cavois a similar invitation from his Eminence. I neglected it, and on the morrow a serious misfortune happened to me—Constance disappeared. Whatever may ensue, I will go.’
“先生们，”达达尼昂答道，“我已经收到了德·卡沃斯先生发出的类似邀请。我忽略了这一点，第二天，一场严重的不幸发生在我身上——康斯坦斯失踪了。无论发生什么，我都会去。

‘If you are determined,’ said Athos, ‘do so.’
“如果你有决心，”阿多斯说，“就这么做吧。”

‘But the Bastille?’ said Aramis.
“但是巴士底狱呢？”阿拉米斯说。

‘Bah! you will get me out if they put me there,’ said d’Artagnan.
'呸！如果他们把我放在那里，你就会把我救出来，”达达尼昂说。

‘To be sure we will,’ replied Aramis and Porthos, with admirable promptness and decision, as if that were the simplest thing in the world, ‘to be sure we will get you out; but meantime, as we are to set off the day after tomorrow, you would do much better not to risk this Bastille.’
“我们肯定会的，”阿拉米斯和波托斯回答道，他们的迅速和果断令人钦佩，仿佛这是世界上最简单的事情，“我们一定会把你救出来；”但与此同时，由于我们后天就要出发，你最好不要冒这个巴士底狱的风险。”

‘Let us do better than that,’ said Athos; ‘do not let us leave him during the whole evening. Let each of us wait at a gate of the palace with three Musketeers behind him; if we see a close carriage, at all suspicious in appearance, come out, let us fall upon it. It is a long time since we have had a skirmish with the Guards of Monsieur the Cardinal; Monsieur de Treville must think us dead.’
“让我们做得更好，”阿托斯说。 ‘别让我们整个晚上都离开他。让我们每个人都在宫殿门口等候，身后跟着三个火枪手；如果我们看到一辆看上去很可疑的近距离马车出来，我们就去扑上去。我们已经很久没有和红衣主教先生的卫队发生过冲突了。德特雷维尔先生肯定认为我们已经死了。

‘To a certainty, Athos,’ said Aramis, ‘you were meant to be a general of the army! What do you think of the plan, gentlemen?’
“可以肯定的是，阿托斯，”阿拉米斯说，“你注定要成为军队的将军！先生们，你们觉得这个计划怎么样？

‘Admirable!’ replied the young men in chorus.
“太棒了！”年轻人齐声回答。

‘Well,’ said Porthos, ‘I will run to the hotel, and engage our comrades to hold themselves in readiness by eight o’clock; the rendezvous, the Place du Palais-Cardinal. Meantime, you see that the lackeys saddle the horses.’
“好吧，”波尔托斯说，“我会跑到旅馆，让我们的同志在八点钟之前做好准备；约会地点，红衣主教宫广场。与此同时，你会看到仆人们给马备鞍。

‘I have no horse,’ said d’Artagnan; ‘but that is of no consequence, I can take one of Monsieur de Treville’s.’
“我没有马，”达达尼昂说。 “但这并不重要，我可以拿一张德·特雷维尔先生的。”

‘That is not worth while,’ said Aramis, ‘you can have one of mine.’
“那不值得，”阿拉米斯说，“你可以拥有我的一个。”

‘One of yours! how many have you, then?’ asked d’Artagnan.
‘你的一个！那么你有多少个呢？”达达尼昂问道。

‘Three,’ replied Aramis, smiling.
“三个，”阿拉米斯微笑着回答。

‘Certes,’ cried Athos, ‘you are the best-mounted poet of France or Navarre.’
“当然，”阿托斯喊道，“你是法国或纳瓦拉最好的诗人。”

‘Well, my dear Aramis, you don’t want three horses? I cannot comprehend what induced you to buy three!’
“好吧，亲爱的阿拉米斯，你不想要三匹马吗？我无法理解是什么促使你买了三个！

‘Therefore I only purchased two,’ said Aramis.
“因此我只买了两个，”阿拉米斯说。

‘The third, then, fell from the clouds, I suppose?’
“那么，我想，第三个是从天上掉下来的吧？”

‘No, the third was brought to me this very morning by a groom out of livery, who would not tell me in whose service he was, and who said he had received orders from his master.’
“不，第三个是今天早上由一位穿着制服的马夫给我带来的，他不肯告诉我他为谁服务，并说他收到了主人的命令。”

‘Or his mistress,’ interrupted d’Artagnan.
“或者他的情妇，”达达尼昂打断道。

‘That makes no difference,’ said Aramis, coloring; ‘and who affirmed, as I said, that he had received orders from his master or mistress to place the horse in my stable, without informing me whence it came.’
“这没什么区别，”阿拉米斯脸红地说。 “正如我所说，他确认他收到了主人或情妇的命令，将马放在我的马厩里，但没有告诉我它来自哪里。”

‘It is only to poets that such things happen,’ said Athos, gravely.
“只有诗人才会发生这样的事，”阿托斯严肃地说。

‘Well, in that case, we can manage famously,’ said d’Artagnan; ‘which of the two horses will you ride—that which you bought or the one that was given to you?’
“好吧，在这种情况下，我们可以出色地应对，”达达尼昂说。 “你会骑这两匹马中的哪一匹——你买的还是别人给你的？”

‘That which was given to me, assuredly. You cannot for a moment imagine, d’Artagnan, that I would commit such an offense toward—‘
‘当然，这是给我的。达达尼昂，你根本无法想象我会对——”

‘The unknown giver,’ interrupted d’Artagnan.
“未知的给予者，”达达尼昂打断道。

‘Or the mysterious benefactress,’ said Athos.
“或者神秘的女恩人，”阿托斯说。

‘The one you bought will then become useless to you?’
“你买的那个就对你没用了？”

‘Nearly so.’
“几乎如此。”

‘And you selected it yourself?’
“那是你自己选的吗？”

‘With the greatest care. The safety of the horseman, you know, depends almost always upon the goodness of his horse.’
‘以最大的关怀。你知道，骑手的安全几乎总是取决于他的马的品质。

‘Well, transfer it to me at the price it cost you?’
“那么，按照你的价格转让给我吧？”

‘I was going to make you the offer, my dear d’Artagnan, giving you all the time necessary for repaying me such a trifle.’
“亲爱的达达尼昂，我本来打算向你提出这个条件，给你所有必要的时间来报答我这样的小事。”

‘How much did it cost you?’
“你花了多少钱？”

‘Eight hundred livres.’
“八百里弗。”

‘Here are forty double pistoles, my dear friend,’ said d’Artagnan, taking the sum from his pocket; ‘I know that is the coin in which you were paid for your poems.’
“这是四十个双手枪，我亲爱的朋友，”达达尼昂说，从口袋里掏出这笔钱。 “我知道那是你为你的诗付钱的硬币。”

‘You are rich, then?’ said Aramis.
“那么你很有钱吗？”阿拉米斯说。

‘Rich? Richest, my dear fellow!’
'富有的？最富有的，我亲爱的朋友！

And d’Artagnan chinked the remainder of his pistoles in his pocket.
达达尼昂把剩下的手枪放进口袋里。

‘Send your saddle, then, to the hotel of the Musketeers, and your horse can be brought back with ours.’
“那么，把你的马鞍送到火枪手旅馆，你的马就可以和我们的马一起带回来了。”

‘Very well; but it is already five o’clock, so make haste.’
'很好;但现在已经五点了，所以抓紧时间吧。”

A quarter of an hour afterward Porthos appeared at the end of the Rue Ferou on a very handsome genet. Mousqueton followed him upon an Auvergne horse, small but very handsome. Porthos was resplendent with joy and pride.
一刻钟后，波托斯出现在费鲁街的尽头，骑在一位非常英俊的基因身上。穆斯克顿骑着一匹奥弗涅马跟在他后面，这匹马虽小，但非常英俊。波托斯脸上洋溢着喜悦和自豪。

At the same time, Aramis made his appearance at the other end of the street upon a superb English charger. Bazin followed him upon a roan, holding by the halter a vigorous Mecklenburg horse; this was d’Artagnan mount.
与此同时，阿拉米斯骑着一匹漂亮的英国战马出现在街道的另一端。巴赞骑着一匹马驹跟在他后面，拴着一匹精力充沛的梅克伦堡马。这是达达尼昂山。

The two Musketeers met at the gate. Athos and d’Artagnan watched their approach from the window.
两个火枪手在门口相遇了。阿托斯和达达尼昂从窗口看着他们走近。

‘The devil!’ cried Aramis, ‘you have a magnificent horse there, Porthos.’
“天哪！”阿拉米斯喊道，“波托斯，你那儿有一匹好马。”

‘Yes,’ replied Porthos, ‘it is the one that ought to have been sent to me at first. A bad joke of the husband’s substituted the other; but the husband has been punished since, and I have obtained full satisfaction.’
“是的，”波托斯回答道，“这就是一开始就应该送给我的。”丈夫的一个蹩脚笑话取代了另一个笑话；但丈夫已经受到了惩罚，我已经完全满意了。”

Planchet and Grimaud appeared in their turn, leading their masters’ steeds. D’Artagnan and Athos put themselves into saddle with their companions, and all four set forward; Athos upon a horse he owed to a woman, Aramis on a horse he owed to his mistress, Porthos on a horse he owed to his procurator’s wife, and d’Artagnan on a horse he owed to his good fortune—the best mistress possible.
普朗谢和格里莫依次出现，牵着主人的战马。达达尼昂和阿托斯与他们的同伴一起上了马鞍，四人一起向前走。阿托斯骑着一匹马，他欠一个女人；阿拉米斯骑着一匹马，他欠他的情妇；波尔托斯骑着一匹马，他欠他检察官的妻子；达达尼昂骑着马，他欠他的好运气——最好的情妇。

The lackeys followed.
走狗们也紧随其后。

As Porthos had foreseen, the cavalcade produced a good effect; and if Mme. Coquenard had met Porthos and seen what a superb appearance he made upon his handsome Spanish genet, she would not have regretted the bleeding she had inflicted upon the strongbox of her husband.
正如波尔托斯所预见的那样，这支队伍产生了良好的效果。如果女士。科克纳尔见过波尔托斯，看到他在他英俊的西班牙基因上表现得多么出色，她不会后悔她对她丈夫的保险箱造成的流血。

Near the Louvre the four friends met with M. de Treville, who was returning from St. Germain; he stopped them to offer his compliments upon their appointments, which in an instant drew round them a hundred gapers.
在卢浮宫附近，四位朋友会见了从圣日耳曼回来的德特雷维尔先生。他拦住了他们，对他们的任命表示祝贺，这立刻吸引了一百个目瞪口呆的人。

D’Artagnan profited by the circumstance to speak to M. de Treville of the letter with the great red seal and the cardinal’s arms. It is well understood that he did not breathe a word about the other.
达达尼昂利用这个机会向德·特雷维尔先生讲述了这封带有大红印章和红衣主教徽章的信。众所周知，他没有透露任何有关对方的信息。

M. de Treville approved of the resolution he had adopted, and assured him that if on the morrow he did not appear, he himself would undertake to find him, let him be where he might.
德特雷维尔先生批准了他所通过的决议，并向他保证，如果他第二天没有出现，他将亲自去找他，让他去他可能去的地方。

At this moment the clock of La Samaritaine struck six; the four friends pleaded an engagement, and took leave of M. de Treville.
这时，莎玛丽丹的时钟敲响了六点。四个朋友请求订婚，并向德特雷维尔先生告别。

A short gallop brought them to the road of Chaillot; the day began to decline, carriages were passing and repassing. d’Artagnan, keeping at some distance from his friends, darted a scrutinizing glance into every carriage that appeared, but saw no face with which he was acquainted.
他们跑了一小段路就到了夏乐路。天色开始暗下来，马车来来往往。达达尼昂与他的朋友们保持着一定的距离，他仔细地扫视着每一辆出现的马车，但没有看到他熟悉的面孔。

At length, after waiting a quarter of an hour and just as twilight was beginning to thicken, a carriage appeared, coming at a quick pace on the road of Sevres. A presentiment instantly told d’Artagnan that this carriage contained the person who had appointed the rendezvous; the young man was himself astonished to find his heart beat so violently. Almost instantly a female head was put out at the window, with two fingers placed upon her mouth, either to enjoin silence or to send him a kiss. D’Artagnan uttered a slight cry of joy; this woman, or rather this apparition— for the carriage passed with the rapidity of a vision—was Mme. Bonacieux.
终于，等了一刻钟，暮色开始浓重时，一辆马车出现了，在塞夫尔的路上飞快地驶来。达达尼昂立即有一种预感，这辆马车里坐着指定约会地点的人。年轻人自己也惊讶地发现自己的心跳得如此剧烈。几乎立刻，一个女人的头就被探出窗外，两根手指放在她的嘴上，要么是要求安静，要么是给他一个吻。达达尼昂发出一声轻微的喜悦叫声。这个女人，或者更确切地说，这个幽灵——因为马车以幻象般的速度飞驰而过——就是夫人。博纳西厄。

By an involuntary movement and in spite of the injunction given, d’Artagnan put his horse into a gallop, and in a few strides overtook the carriage; but the window was hermetically closed, the vision had disappeared.
达达尼昂不顾禁令，不由自主地策马狂奔，几步就追上了马车。但窗户紧闭，视线消失了。

D’Artagnan then remembered the injunction: ‘If you value your own life or that of those who love you, remain motionless, and as if you had seen nothing.’
达达尼昂随后想起了这条禁令：“如果你珍惜自己或爱你的人的生命，就保持一动不动，就好像你什么也没看到一样。”

He stopped, therefore, trembling not for himself but for the poor woman who had evidently exposed herself to great danger by appointing this rendezvous.
因此，他停了下来，不是为自己而颤抖，而是为那个可怜的女人颤抖，她显然因为指定了这次约会而将自己置于巨大的危险之中。

The carriage pursued its way, still going at a great pace, till it dashed into Paris, and disappeared.
马车继续前行，速度仍然很快，直到冲进巴黎，消失了。

D’Artagnan remained fixed to the spot, astounded and not knowing what to think. If it was Mme. Bonacieux and if she was returning to Paris, why this fugitive rendezvous, why this simple exchange of a glance, why this lost kiss? If, on the other side, it was not she—which was still quite possible—for the little light that remained rendered a mistake easy—might it not be the commencement of some plot against him through the allurement of this woman, for whom his love was known?
达达尼昂站在原地，震惊不已，不知道该想什么。如果是女士的话。博纳瑟和如果她要返回巴黎，为什么要进行这次逃亡的会面，为什么要进行这种简单的眼神交换，为什么要进行这个失去的吻？如果，在另一边，不是她——这仍然是很有可能的——因为剩下的那一点点光很容易犯一个错误——这可能不是通过这个女人的诱惑而开始的针对他的阴谋，因为她是他的女人。爱情被知道了？

His three companions joined him. All had plainly seen a woman’s head appear at the window, but none of them, except Athos, knew Mme. Bonacieux. The opinion of Athos was that it was indeed she; but less preoccupied by that pretty face than d’Artagnan, he had fancied he saw a second head, a man’s head, inside the carriage.
他的三个同伴也加入了他的行列。大家都清楚地看到一个女人的头出现在窗户上，但除了阿多斯之外，没有人认识我夫人。博纳西厄。阿多斯认为确实是她。但他不像达达尼昂那样对那张漂亮的脸那么着迷，他幻想自己在马车里看到了第二颗头，一个男人的头。

‘If that be the case,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘they are doubtless transporting her from one prison to another. But what can they intend to do with the poor creature, and how shall I ever meet her again?’
“如果是这样的话，”达达尼昂说，“他们无疑会把她从一座监狱转移到另一座监狱。但他们打算对这个可怜的生物做什么呢？我该如何再见到她呢？

‘Friend,’ said Athos, gravely, ‘remember that it is the dead alone with whom we are not likely to meet again on this earth. You know something of that, as well as I do, I think. Now, if your mistress is not dead, if it is she we have just seen, you will meet with her again some day or other. And perhaps, my God!’ added he, with that misanthropic tone which was peculiar to him, ‘perhaps sooner than you wish.’
“朋友，”阿托斯严肃地说，“请记住，我们不可能在这个地球上再次见到死者。我想你和我一样知道一些事情。现在，如果你的情妇没有死，如果是我们刚刚见到的她，你总有一天会再次见到她的。也许，天哪！”他用他特有的愤世嫉俗的语气补充道，“也许比你希望的要早。”

Half past seven had sounded. The carriage had been twenty minutes behind the time appointed. D’Artagnan’s friends reminded him that he had a visit to pay, but at the same time bade him observe that there was yet time to retract.
七点半钟声响起。马车比约定的时间晚了二十分钟。达达尼昂的朋友们提醒他要去拜访，但同时又叮嘱他注意现在还没有时间撤回。

But d’Artagnan was at the same time impetuous and curious. He had made up his mind that he would go to the PalaisCardinal, and that he would learn what his Eminence had to say to him. Nothing could turn him from his purpose.
但达达尼昂同时又冲动又好奇。他已经决定去红衣主教宫，了解主教大人对他说的话。没有什么可以改变他的目标。

They reached the Rue St. Honore, and in the Place du PalaisCardinal they found the twelve invited Musketeers, walking about in expectation of their comrades. There only they explained to them the matter in hand.
他们到达了圣奥诺雷街，在红衣主教宫广场上，他们发现了十二名受邀的火枪手，正在四处走动，等待着他们的战友。在那里，只有他们向他们解释了手头的事情。

D’Artagnan was well known among the honorable corps of the king’s Musketeers, in which it was known he would one day take his place; he was considered beforehand as a comrade. It resulted from these antecedents that everyone entered heartily into the purpose for which they met; besides, it would not be unlikely that they would have an opportunity of playing either the cardinal or his people an ill turn, and for such expeditions these worthy gentlemen were always ready.
达达尼昂在国王火枪手的光荣军团中享有盛誉，人们知道他有一天会取代他的位置。他事先被视为同志。正是由于这些前因后果，每个人都全心全意地意识到他们相遇的目的。此外，他们也不太可能有机会对红衣主教或他的人民做出不好的举动，而对于这样的远征，这些可敬的绅士们总是做好了准备。

Athos divided them into three groups, assumed the command of one, gave the second to Aramis, and the third to Porthos; and then each group went and took their watch near an entrance.
阿托斯将他们分成三组，由一组负责指挥，第二组交给阿拉米斯，第三组交给波托斯。然后每个小组都去入口附近拿表。

D’Artagnan, on his part, entered boldly at the principal gate.
达达尼昂则大胆地从大门进来。

Although he felt himself ably supported, the young man was not without a little uneasiness as he ascended the great staircase, step by step. His conduct toward Milady bore a strong resemblance to treachery, and he was very suspicious of the political relations which existed between that woman and the cardinal. Still further, de Wardes, whom he had treated so ill, was one of the tools of his Eminence; and d’Artagnan knew that while his Eminence was terrible to his enemies, he was strongly attached to his friends.
虽然感觉自己得到了有力的支撑，但当他一步步登上大楼梯时，年轻人还是不免有些不安。他对米莱迪的行为很像背叛，他对米莱迪和红衣主教之间存在的政治关系非常怀疑。更进一步说，他曾如此虐待德瓦尔德，但他却是主教大人的工具之一。达达尼昂知道，虽然他的主教对他的敌人来说是可怕的，但他对他的朋友却有着强烈的依恋。

‘If de Wardes has related all our affair to the cardinal, which is not to be doubted, and if he has recognized me, as is probable, I may consider myself almost as a condemned man,’ said d’Artagnan, shaking his head. ‘But why has he waited till now? That’s all plain enough. Milady has laid her complaints against me with that hypocritical grief which renders her so interesting, and this last offense has made the cup overflow.’
“如果德瓦尔德将我们所有的事情都告诉了红衣主教，这是毫无疑问的，如果他认出了我（这是可能的），我可能会认为自己几乎是一个被判有罪的人，”达达尼昂摇着头说道。 。 “可是他为什么要等到现在呢？这一切都很简单。米莱迪带着虚伪的悲伤向我抱怨，这使她变得如此有趣，而这最后的冒犯已经让杯子溢出来了。

‘Fortunately,’ added he, ‘my good friends are down yonder, and they will not allow me to be carried away without a struggle. Nevertheless, Monsieur de Treville’s company of Musketeers alone cannot maintain a war against the cardinal, who disposes of the forces of all France, and before whom the queen is without power and the king without will. d’Artagnan, my friend, you are brave, you are prudent, you have excellent qualities; but the women will ruin you!’
“幸运的是，”他补充道，“我的好朋友就在那边，他们不会让我不经挣扎就被带走。”然而，仅靠德·特雷维尔先生的火枪手连队无法维持对红衣主教的战争，红衣主教掌握着整个法国的军队，在他面前女王没有权力，国王没有意志。达达尼昂，我的朋友，你勇敢，你谨慎，你有优秀的品质；但女人会毁了你！”

He came to this melancholy conclusion as he entered the antechamber. He placed his letter in the hands of the usher on duty, who led him into the waiting room and passed on into the interior of the palace.
当他走进前厅时，他得出了这个令人忧郁的结论。他将信交到值班的引座员手中，引座员领着他走进候诊室，进入宫殿内部。

In this waiting room were five or six of the cardinals Guards, who recognized d’Artagnan, and knowing that it was he who had wounded Jussac, they looked upon him with a smile of singular meaning.
候诊室里有五六名红衣主教近卫，他们认出了达达尼昂，知道是他打伤了朱萨克，他们看着他，脸上带着一种意味深长的微笑。

This smile appeared to d’Artagnan to be of bad augury. Only, as our Gascon was not easily intimidated—or rather, thanks to a great pride natural to the men of his country, he did not allow one easily to see what was passing in his mind when that which was passing at all resembled fear—he placed himself haughtily in front of Messieurs the Guards, and waited with his hand on his hip, in an attitude by no means deficient in majesty.
在达达尼昂看来，这个微笑是不祥之兆。只是，我们的加斯科涅人不容易被吓倒——或者更确切地说，由于他的国家的人们天生具有一种巨大的骄傲，他不允许人们轻易地看到他脑海中正在发生的事情，而实际上正在发生的事情就像恐惧一样——他傲慢地站在近卫大人面前，双手叉腰等待着，态度丝毫不失威严。

The usher returned and made a sign to d’Artagnan to follow him. It appeared to the young man that the Guards, on seeing him depart, chuckled among themselves.
引座员回来了，示意达达尼昂跟他走。在年轻人看来，守卫们看到他离开后，都窃笑起来。

He traversed a corridor, crossed a grand saloon, entered a library, and found himself in the presence of a man seated at a desk and writing.
他穿过一条走廊，穿过一家大酒馆，走进一间图书馆，发现自己面前有一个男人坐在书桌前写字。

The usher introduced him, and retired without speaking a word. D’Artagnan remained standing and examined this man.
引座员介绍了他，然后一言不发地退了出去。达达尼昂仍然站着，审视着这个人。

D’Artagnan at first believed that he had to do with some judge examining his papers; but he perceived that the man at the desk wrote, or rather corrected, lines of unequal length, scanning the words on his fingers. He saw then that he was with a poet. At the end of an instant the poet closed his manuscript, upon the cover of which was written ‘Mirame, a Tragedy in Five Acts,’ and raised his head.
达达尼昂起初认为他与某位法官审查他的文件有关。但他发现办公桌前的那个人一边用手指扫视着文字，一边写下，或者更确切地说，修正着长度不等的线条。这时他发现自己正和一位诗人在一起。刹那间，诗人合上手稿，封面上写着“米拉梅，五幕悲剧”，然后抬起了头。

D’Artagnan recognized the cardinal.
达达尼昂认出了红衣主教。

40 A TERRIBLE VISION
40 可怕的异象

The cardinal leaned his elbow on his manuscript, his cheek upon his hand, and looked intently at the young man for a moment. No one had a more searching eye than the Cardinal de Richelieu, and d’Artagnan felt this glance run through his veins like a fever.
红衣主教将手肘靠在手稿上，脸颊贴在手上，专注地看了年轻人一会儿。没有人比黎塞留红衣主教更具洞察力，达达尼昂感到这一目光像发烧一样流过他的血管。

He however kept a good countenance, holding his hat in his hand and awaiting the good pleasure of his Eminence, without too much assurance, but also without too much humility.
然而，他却保持着良好的面容，手里拿着帽子，等待着主教大人的喜悦，没有太多的自信，但也没有太多的谦卑。

‘Monsieur,’ said the cardinal, ‘are you a d’Artagnan from Bearn?’
“先生，”红衣主教说道，“您是来自贝阿恩的达达尼昂吗？”

‘Yes, monseigneur,’ replied the young man.
“是的，大人，”年轻人回答道。

‘There are several branches of the d’Artagnans at Tarbes and in its environs,’ said the cardinal; ‘to which do you belong?’
“达达尼昂家族在塔布及其周边地区有几个分支，”红衣主教说。 “你属于哪一个？”

‘I am the son of him who served in the Religious Wars under the great King Henry, the father of his gracious Majesty.’
“我是在伟大的亨利国王手下参加宗教战争的人的儿子，他是仁慈的陛下的父亲。”

‘That is well. It is you who set out seven or eight months ago from your country to seek your fortune in the capital?’
‘那就好。是你七八个月前从自己的国家出发，到京城闯荡的吗？

‘Yes, monseigneur.’
“是的，大人。”

‘You came through Meung, where something befell you. I don’t very well know what, but still something.’
“你经过默恩，在那里发生了一些事情。我不太清楚是什么，但还是有一些。

‘Monseigneur,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘this was what happened to me—‘
“大人，”达达尼昂说道，“这就是发生在我身上的事——”

‘Never mind, never mind!’ resumed the cardinal, with a smile which indicated that he knew the story as well as he who wished to relate it. ‘You were recommended to Monsieur de Treville, were you not?’
“没关系，没关系！”红衣主教微笑着继续说道，这表明他和想要讲述这个故事的人一样了解这个故事。 “你被推荐给德·特雷维尔先生，不是吗？”

‘Yes, monseigneur; but in that unfortunate affair at Meung—‘
“是的，大人；但在默恩那场不幸的事件中——”

‘The letter was lost,’ replied his Eminence; ‘yes, I know that. But Monsieur de Treville is a skilled physiognomist, who knows men at first sight; and he placed you in the company of his brother-in-law, Monsieur Dessessart, leaving you to hope that one day or other you should enter the Musketeers.’
“这封信丢了，”主教回答道。 '对我知道那个。但德特雷维尔先生是一位技术精湛的相术师，他对男人一见钟情。他把你安排在他的姐夫德塞萨特先生身边，让你希望有一天或有一天你能加入火枪手队。

‘Monseigneur is correctly informed,’ said d’Artagnan.
“大人得到的消息是正确的，”达达尼昂说道。

‘Since that time many things have happened to you. You were walking one day behind the Chartreux, when it would have been better if you had been elsewhere. Then you took with your friends a journey to the waters of Forges; they stopped on the road, but you continued yours. That is all very simple: you had business in England.’
‘从那时起，你身上发生了很多事情。有一天，你走在沙特勒后面，如果你去别的地方会更好。然后你和你的朋友一起前往福尔吉斯水域。他们停在路上，但你继续你的。这一切都很简单：你在英格兰有生意。

‘Monseigneur,’ said d’Artagnan, quite confused, ‘I went—‘
“大人，”达达尼昂很困惑地说，“我去了——”

‘Hunting at Windsor, or elsewhere—that concerns nobody. I know, because it is my office to know everything. On your return you were received by an august personage, and I perceive with pleasure that you preserve the souvenir she gave you.’
“在温莎或其他地方打猎——这与任何人无关。我知道，因为这是我的办公室，什么都知道。当你回来时，一位威严的人物接待了你，我很高兴地看到你保存了她送给你的纪念品。

D’Artagnan placed his hand upon the queen’s diamond, which he wore, and quickly turned the stone inward; but it was too late.
达达尼昂把手放在他佩戴的王后钻石上，然后迅速将宝石向内转动；但为时已晚。

‘The day after that, you received a visit from Cavois,’ resumed the cardinal. ‘He went to desire you to come to the palace. You have not returned that visit, and you were wrong.’
“第二天，卡沃斯来访了，”红衣主教继续说道。 ‘他去请你到王宫去。你还没有回访，你错了。

‘Monseigneur, I feared I had incurred disgrace with your Eminence.’
“大人，我担心我让大人蒙羞了。”

‘How could that be, monsieur? Could you incur my displeasure by having followed the orders of your superiors with more intelligence and courage than another would have done? It is the people who do not obey that I punish, and not those who, like you, obey—but too well. As a proof, remember the date of the day on which I had you bidden to come to me, and seek in your memory for what happened to you that very night.’
“怎么可能呢，先生？你比别人更聪明、更勇敢地执行上级的命令，会招致我的不满吗？我惩罚的是那些不服从的人，而不是那些像你一样服从的人——但服从得太好了。作为证据，请记住我邀请你来找我的那天的日期，并在你的记忆中寻找那天晚上发生在你身上的事情。

That was the very evening when the abduction of Mme. Bonacieux took place. D’Artagnan trembled; and he likewise recollected that during the past half hour the poor woman had passed close to him, without doubt carried away by the same power that had caused her disappearance.
就在那天晚上，夫人被绑架了。博纳希厄发生了。达达尼昂颤抖着；他还记得，在过去的半个小时里，那个可怜的女人从他身边走过，毫无疑问是被导致她失踪的同样的力量带走了。

‘In short,’ continued the cardinal, ‘as I have heard nothing of you for some time past, I wished to know what you were doing. Besides, you owe me some thanks. You must yourself have remarked how much you have been considered in all the circumstances.’
“简而言之，”红衣主教继续说道，“因为我已经有一段时间没有听到你的消息了，我想知道你在做什么。另外，你还欠我一些感谢。你自己一定已经说过在所有情况下你都被考虑了多少。

D’Artagnan bowed with respect.
达达尼昂恭敬地鞠了一躬。

‘That,’ continued the cardinal, ‘arose not only from a feeling of natural equity, but likewise from a plan I have marked out with respect to you.’
“这，”红衣主教继续说道，“不仅源于自然公平感，而且同样源于我为您制定的计划。”

D’Artagnan became more and more astonished.
达达尼昂越来越惊讶。

‘I wished to explain this plan to you on the day you received my first invitation; but you did not come. Fortunately, nothing is lost by this delay, and you are now about to hear it. Sit down there, before me, d’Artagnan; you are gentleman enough not to listen standing.’ And the cardinal pointed with his finger to a chair for the young man, who was so astonished at what was passing that he awaited a second sign from his interlocutor before he obeyed.
“我想在你收到我第一次邀请的那天向你解释这个计划；但你没有来。幸运的是，这种延迟并没有造成任何损失，而且您现在即将听到它。达达尼昂，坐在我面前；红衣主教用手指指着年轻人的一把椅子，年轻人对所发生的事情感到非常惊讶，以至于他等待对话者的第二个信号才服从。

‘You are brave, Monsieur d’Artagnan,’ continued his Eminence; ‘you are prudent, which is still better. I like men of head and heart. Don’t be afraid,’ said he, smiling. ‘By men of heart I mean men of courage. But young as you are, and scarcely entering into the world, you have powerful enemies; if you do not take great heed, they will destroy you.’
“你很勇敢，达达尼昂先生，”主教继续说道。 ‘你很谨慎，这样更好。我喜欢有头脑和心灵的男人。别害怕，”他微笑着说道。 “我所说的有爱心的人是指有勇气的人。但尽管你还年轻，刚刚踏入这个世界，你却有强大的敌人；如果你不小心，他们就会毁掉你。”

‘Alas, monseigneur!’ replied the young man, ‘very easily, no doubt, for they are strong and well supported, while I am alone.’
“唉，大人！”年轻人回答道，“毫无疑问，这很容易，因为他们很强大，也有很好的支持，而我却孤身一人。”

‘Yes, that’s true; but alone as you are, you have done much already, and will do still more, I don’t doubt. Yet you have need, I believe, to be guided in the adventurous career you have undertaken; for, if I mistake not, you came to Paris with the ambitious idea of making your fortune.’
'是的，这是真的;但尽管你孤身一人，但我毫不怀疑，你已经做了很多事情，而且还会做更多事情。然而，我相信，你需要在你所从事的冒险事业中得到指导；因为，如果我没记错的话，你来到巴黎是带着发财的雄心勃勃的想法的。

‘I am at the age of extravagant hopes, monseigneur,’ said d’Artagnan.
“我正处于充满希望的年纪，大人，”达达尼昂说。

‘There are no extravagant hopes but for fools, monsieur, and you are a man of understanding. Now, what would you say to an ensign’s commission in my Guards, and a company after the campaign?’
“除了傻瓜之外，没有什么奢侈的希望，先生，而您是一个有悟性的人。现在，您对我的近卫军中的一名少尉以及战役结束后的连队有什么想说的？

‘Ah, monseigneur.’
“啊，大人。”

‘You accept it, do you not?’
“你接受了，不是吗？”

‘Monseigneur,’ replied d’Artagnan, with an embarrassed air.
“大人，”达达尼昂回答道，神情有些尴尬。

‘How? You refuse?’ cried the cardinal, with astonishment.
'如何？你拒绝？”红衣主教惊讶地喊道。

‘I am in his Majesty’s Guards, monseigneur, and I have no reason to be dissatisfied.’
“我是陛下的侍卫，大人，我没有理由不满意。”

‘But it appears to me that my Guards—mine—are also his Majesty’s Guards; and whoever serves in a French corps serves the king.’
“但在我看来，我的卫兵——我的——也是国王陛下的卫兵；法国军团中的任何人都为国王服务。”

‘Monseigneur, your Eminence has ill understood my words.’
“大人，陛下没有理解我的话。”

‘You want a pretext, do you not? I comprehend. Well, you have this excuse: advancement, the opening campaign, the opportunity which I offer you—so much for the world. As regards yourself, the need of protection; for it is fit you should know, Monsieur d’Artagnan, that I have received heavy and serious complaints against you. You do not consecrate your days and nights wholly to the king’s service.’
‘你想要一个借口，不是吗？我明白了。好吧，你有这个借口：晋升、开幕活动、我为你提供的机会——对世界来说就这么多了。至于你自己，需要保护；达达尼昂先生，您应该知道，我收到了针对您的大量严重投诉。你不会把你的日日夜夜完全奉献给国王。”

D’Artagnan colored.
达达尼昂着色。

‘In fact,’ said the cardinal, placing his hand upon a bundle of papers, ‘I have here a whole pile which concerns you. I know you to be a man of resolution; and your services, well directed, instead of leading you to ill, might be very advantageous to you. Come; reflect, and decide.’
“事实上，”红衣主教把手放在一叠文件上说道，“我这里有一大堆与你有关的文件。我知道你是一个有决心的人；如果你的服务有针对性，可能对你非常有利，而不是让你生病。来;反思并决定。”

‘Your goodness confounds me, monseigneur,’ replied d’Artagnan, ‘and I am conscious of a greatness of soul in your Eminence that makes me mean as an earthworm; but since Monseigneur permits me to speak freely—‘
“您的善良让我感到困惑，大人，”达达尼昂回答道，“我意识到您的灵魂的伟大使我像一条蚯蚓一样卑鄙；但既然大人允许我自由发言——”

D’Artagnan paused.
达达尼昂停了下来。

‘Yes; speak.’
'是的;说话。'

‘Then, I will presume to say that all my friends are in the king’s Musketeers and Guards, and that by an inconceivable fatality my enemies are in the service of your Eminence; I should, therefore, be ill received here and ill regarded there if I accepted what Monseigneur offers me.’
“那么，我可以说，我所有的朋友都在国王的火枪手和卫队中，而我的敌人却以难以想象的命运为陛下服务；因此，如果我接受大人提供给我的东西，我会在这里受到不受欢迎，在那里也会受到不尊重。

‘Do you happen to entertain the haughty idea that I have not yet made you an offer equal to your value?’ asked the cardinal, with a smile of disdain.
“你是否认为我还没有向你提出与你的价值相等的报价？”红衣主教带着轻蔑的微笑问道。

‘Monseigneur, your Eminence is a hundred times too kind to me; and on the contrary, I think I have not proved myself worthy of your goodness. The siege of La Rochelle is about to be resumed, monseigneur. I shall serve under the eye of your Eminence, and if I have the good fortune to conduct myself at the siege in such a manner as merits your attention, then I shall at least leave behind me some brilliant action to justify the protection with which you honor me. Everything is best in its time, monseigneur. Hereafter, perhaps, I shall have the right of giving myself; at present I shall appear to sell myself.’
“大人，大人对我真是太好了一百倍；相反，我认为我还没有证明自己配得上你的善良。主教大人，对拉罗谢尔的围攻即将恢复。我将在陛下的注视下服役，如果我有幸在围城时表现得值得您的注意，那么我至少会留下一些出色的行动来证明您对我的保护是合理的。尊重我。一切都是最好的，大人。或许，从今往后，我将有权献出自己；现在我似乎要出卖自己了。

‘That is to say, you refuse to serve me, monsieur,’ said the cardinal, with a tone of vexation, through which, however, might be seen a sort of esteem; ‘remain free, then, and guard your hatreds and your sympathies.’
“也就是说，您拒绝为我服务，先生。”红衣主教语气里带着烦恼，但从中可以看出一种尊重。 “那么，保持自由，守护你的仇恨和同情。”

‘Monseigneur—‘
'阁下-'

‘Well, well,’ said the cardinal, ‘I don’t wish you any ill; but you must be aware that it is quite trouble enough to defend and recompense our friends. We owe nothing to our enemies; and let me give you a piece of advice; take care of yourself, Monsieur d’Artagnan, for from the moment I withdraw my hand from behind you, I would not give an obolus for your life.’
“好吧，好吧，”红衣主教说，“我不希望你生病；但你要知道，维护和补偿我们的朋友已经够麻烦的了。我们不欠我们的敌人；我们不欠我们的敌人。让我给你一个建议；照顾好自己，达达尼昂先生，从我把手从你身后收回的那一刻起，我就不会为了你的生命而付出任何代价。

‘I will try to do so, monseigneur,’ replied the Gascon, with a noble confidence.
“我会尽力做到这一点，大人，”加斯科尼人带着崇高的信心回答道。

‘Remember at a later period and at a certain moment, if any mischance should happen to you,’ said Richelieu, significantly, ‘that it was I who came to seek you, and that I did all in my power to prevent this misfortune befalling you.’
“请记住，在以后的某个时刻，如果你遇到任何不幸，”黎塞留意味深长地说，“是我来找你的，并且我竭尽全力阻止这种不幸降临。”你。'

‘I shall entertain, whatever may happen,’ said d’Artagnan, placing his hand upon his breast and bowing, ‘an eternal gratitude toward your Eminence for that which you now do for me.’
“无论发生什么，”达达尼昂说道，他把手放在胸前，鞠了一躬，“对陛下为我所做的一切表示永远的感激之情。”

‘Well, let it be, then, as you have said, Monsieur d’Artagnan; we shall see each other again after the campaign. I will have my eye upon you, for I shall be there,’ replied the cardinal, pointing with his finger to a magnificent suit of armor he was to wear, ‘and on our return, well—we will settle our account!’
“好吧，那就这样吧，正如您所说的，达达尼昂先生；竞选结束后我们将再次见面。我会盯着你，因为我会在那里，”红衣主教回答道，用手指着他要穿的一套华丽的盔甲，“等我们回来时，好吧——我们会算账的！”

‘Young man,’ said Richelieu, ‘if I shall be able to say to you at another time what I have said to you today, I promise you to do so.’
“年轻人，”黎塞留说，“如果我能在其他时候对你说我今天对你说的话，我向你保证会这样做。”

This last expression of Richelieu’s conveyed a terrible doubt; it alarmed d’Artagnan more than a menace would have done, for it was a warning. The cardinal, then, was seeking to preserve him from some misfortune which threatened him. He opened his mouth to reply, but with a haughty gesture the cardinal dismissed him.
黎塞留最后的表情表达了一种可怕的怀疑。这比威胁更让达达尼昂感到震惊，因为这是一个警告。那么，红衣主教正试图保护他免受威胁他的不幸的影响。他张嘴想要回答，但红衣主教以傲慢的姿态打发走了他。

D’Artagnan went out, but at the door his heart almost failed him, and he felt inclined to return. Then the noble and severe countenance of Athos crossed his mind; if he made the compact with the cardinal which he required, Athos would no more give him his hand—Athos would renounce him.
达达尼昂出去了，但到了门口，他的心几乎要崩溃了，他想再回来。这时他的脑海中浮现出了阿多斯高贵而严肃的面容。如果他与红衣主教签订了他所要求的契约，阿多斯将不再向他伸出援手——阿多斯将与他断绝关系。

It was this fear that restrained him, so powerful is the influence of a truly great character on all that surrounds it.
正是这种恐惧束缚了他，一个真正伟大的人物对周围一切的影响是如此强大。

D’Artagnan descended by the staircase at which he had entered, and found Athos and the four Musketeers waiting his appearance, and beginning to grow uneasy. With a word, d’Artagnan reassured them; and Planchet ran to inform the other sentinels that it was useless to keep guard longer, as his master had come out safe from the Palais-Cardinal.
达达尼昂从他进来的楼梯走下来，发现阿托斯和四个火枪手正在等待他的出现，并开始变得不安。达达尼昂说了一句话，让他们放心。普朗谢特跑去告诉其他哨兵，再守卫也没有用，因为他的主人已经安全地从红衣主教宫出来了。

Returned home with Athos, Aramis and Porthos inquired eagerly the cause of the strange interview; but d’Artagnan confined himself to telling them that M. de Richelieu had sent for him to propose to him to enter into his guards with the rank of ensign, and that he had refused.
与阿托斯一起回到家后，阿拉米斯和波托斯急切地询问这次奇怪采访的原因。但达达尼昂只告诉他们，黎塞留先生曾派人找他，建议他以少尉军衔加入卫队，但他拒绝了。

‘And you were right,’ cried Aramis and Porthos, with one voice.
“你是对的，”阿拉米斯和波托斯同声喊道。

Athos fell into a profound reverie and answered nothing. But when they were alone he said, ‘You have done that which you ought to have done, d’Artagnan; but perhaps you have been wrong.’
阿多斯陷入了沉思，什么也没回答。但当他们单独在一起时，他说：“你已经做了你应该做的事，达达尼昂；但也许你错了。

D’Artagnan sighed deeply, for this voice responded to a secret voice of his soul, which told him that great misfortunes awaited him.
达达尼昂深深地叹了口气，因为这个声音回应了他灵魂深处的秘密声音，告诉他巨大的不幸正在等待着他。

The whole of the next day was spent in preparations for departure. D’Artagnan went to take leave of M. de Treville. At that time it was believed that the separation of the Musketeers and the Guards would be but momentary, the king holding his Parliament that very day and proposing to set out the day after. M. de Treville contented himself with asking d’Artagnan if he could do anything for him, but d’Artagnan answered that he was supplied with all he wanted.
第二天一整天都在准备出发。达达尼昂去向德·特雷维尔先生告别。当时人们认为火枪手和近卫军的分离只是暂时的，国王当天召开了议会，并提议第二天出发。德·特雷维尔先生满足于询问达达尼昂是否能为他做点什么，但达达尼昂回答说，他已经得到了他想要的一切。

That night brought together all those comrades of the Guards of M. Dessessart and the company of Musketeers of M. de Treville who had been accustomed to associate together. They were parting to meet again when it pleased God, and if it pleased God. That night, then, was somewhat riotous, as may be imagined. In such cases extreme preoccupation is only to be combated by extreme carelessness.
那天晚上，德塞萨特先生的近卫军和德特雷维尔先生的火枪手连的所有习惯于交往的同志都聚集到了一起。当上帝高兴时，如果上帝高兴的话，他们就会分开并重逢。可以想象，那天晚上是有些骚乱的。在这种情况下，极端的专注只能通过极端的粗心来对抗。

At the first sound of the morning trumpet the friends separated; the Musketeers hastening to the hotel of M. de Treville, the Guards to that of M. Dessessart. Each of the captains then led his company to the Louvre, where the king held his review.
清晨的号角一响起，朋友们就分开了。火枪手们赶往德特雷维尔先生的旅馆，卫兵则赶往德塞萨特先生的旅馆。随后，各位队长带领自己的连队前往卢浮宫，国王在那里举行检阅。

The king was dull and appeared ill, which detracted a little from his usual lofty bearing. In fact, the evening before, a fever had seized him in the midst of the Parliament, while he was holding his Bed of Justice. He had, not the less, decided upon setting out that same evening; and in spite of the remonstrances that had been offered to him, he persisted in having the review, hoping by setting it at defiance to conquer the disease which began to lay hold upon him.
国王面色呆滞，而且看上去病重，这让他平时的高高在上的气度稍稍减了一些。事实上，前一天晚上，当他在议会中守着正义之床时，他就发烧了。尽管如此，他还是决定当天晚上就出发。尽管有人向他提出抗议，他还是坚持进行复查，希望通过反抗来战胜开始困扰他的疾病。

The review over, the Guards set forward alone on their march, the Musketeers waiting for the king, which allowed Porthos time to go and take a turn in his superb equipment in the Rue aux Ours.
检阅结束后，近卫军独自上路，火枪手们等待国王，这让波托斯有时间穿着他的精良装备在我们的大街上转一转。

The procurator’s wife saw him pass in his new uniform and on his fine horse. She loved Porthos too dearly to allow him to part thus; she made him a sign to dismount and come to her. Porthos was magnificent; his spurs jingled, his cuirass glittered, his sword knocked proudly against his ample limbs. This time the clerks evinced no inclination to laugh, such a real ear clipper did Porthos appear.
检察官的妻子看到他穿着新制服骑着一匹好马走过。她太爱波尔托斯了，不允许他就这样分开。她示意他下马来到她身边。波托斯是伟大的。他的马刺叮当作响，他的胸甲闪闪发光，他的剑骄傲地敲击着他宽大的四肢。这一次，店员们都笑不出来了，波尔托斯真是一把剪耳器。

The Musketeer was introduced to M. Coquenard, whose little gray eyes sparkled with anger at seeing his cousin all blazing new. Nevertheless, one thing afforded him inward consolation; it was expected by everybody that the campaign would be a severe one. He whispered a hope to himself that this beloved relative might be killed in the field.
火枪手被介绍给科奎纳德先生，科奎纳德先生看到他的表弟焕然一新，灰色的小眼睛里闪烁着愤怒的光芒。尽管如此，有一件事给了他内心的安慰：每个人都预计这场运动将是一场严峻的运动。他低声对自己说，希望这位心爱的亲戚可能会死在战场上。

Porthos paid his compliments to M. Coquenard and bade him farewell. M. Coquenard wished him all sorts of prosperities. As to Mme. Coquenard, she could not restrain her tears; but no evil impressions were taken from her grief as she was known to be very much attached to her relatives, about whom she was constantly having serious disputes with her husband.
波托斯向科奎纳尔先生致意并向他告别。科克纳德先生祝愿他一切顺利。至于女士。科克纳德，她无法抑制自己的泪水；但她的悲痛并没有给她留下任何不好的印象，因为众所周知，她非常依恋她的亲戚，而且她经常与她的丈夫为亲戚发生严重争执。

But the real adieux were made in Mme. Coquenard’s chamber; they were heartrending.
但真正的告别是在夫人身上做出的。科克纳尔的房间；他们令人心碎。

As long as the procurator’s wife could follow him with her eyes, she waved her handkerchief to him, leaning so far out of the window as to lead people to believe she wished to precipitate herself. Porthos received all these attentions like a man accustomed to such demonstrations, only on turning the corner of the street he lifted his hat gracefully, and waved it to her as a sign of adieu.
只要检察官的妻子的目光能跟上他，她就向他挥舞着手帕，身体探出窗外，让人以为她是想下台。波尔托斯像一个习惯了这种示威的人一样受到了所有这些关注，直到拐过街角时，他才优雅地举起帽子，向她挥手示意告别。

On his part Aramis wrote a long letter. To whom? Nobody knew. Kitty, who was to set out that evening for Tours, was waiting in the next chamber.
阿拉米斯则写了一封长信。给谁？没有人知道。基蒂当天晚上就要出发去图尔，她正在隔壁房间等着。

Athos sipped the last bottle of his Spanish wine.
阿托斯喝完了最后一瓶西班牙葡萄酒。

In the meantime d’Artagnan was defiling with his company. Arriving at the Faubourg St. Antoine, he turned round to look gaily at the Bastille; but as it was the Bastille alone he looked at, he did not observe Milady, who, mounted upon a light chestnut horse, designated him with her finger to two ill-looking men who came close up to the ranks to take notice of him. To a look of interrogation which they made, Milady replied by a sign that it was he. Then, certain that there could be no mistake in the execution of her orders, she started her horse and disappeared.
与此同时，达达尼昂正在玷污他的公司。到达圣安东尼郊区后，他转过身来，高兴地看着巴士底狱。但由于他只看到了巴士底狱，所以没有注意到米拉迪，米拉迪骑在一匹浅栗色的马上，用手指指着他指着两个相貌丑陋的男人，他们走近队伍来注意他。面对他们询问的目光，米莱迪做了一个手势，表示是他。然后，她确信自己的命令执行不会有任何错误，于是策马消失了。

The two men followed the company, and on leaving the Faubourg St. Antoine, mounted two horses properly equipped, which a servant without livery had waiting for them.
两人跟着队伍离开圣安托万郊区，骑上两匹装备齐全的马，有一个没有制服的仆人在等着他们。

41 THE SEIGE OF LA ROCHELLE
41 拉罗谢尔围攻

The Siege of La Rochelle was one of the great political events of the reign of Louis XIII, and one of the great military enterprises of the cardinal. It is, then, interesting and even necessary that we should say a few words about it, particularly as many details of this siege are connected in too important a manner with the story we have undertaken to relate to allow us to pass it over in silence.
拉罗谢尔之围是路易十三统治时期的重大政治事件之一，也是红衣主教伟大的军事事业之一。因此，我们应该对此说几句话，这是有趣的，甚至是必要的，特别是因为这次围攻的许多细节与我们所要讲述的故事有着非常重要的联系，以至于我们无法默默地忽略它。

The political plans of the cardinal when he undertook this siege were extensive. Let us unfold them first, and then pass on to the private plans which perhaps had not less influence upon his Eminence than the others.
红衣主教进行这次围攻时的政治计划是广泛的。让我们先展开它们，然后再讨论私人计划，这些计划对主教大人的影响也许并不比其他计划小。

Of the important cities given up by Henry IV to the Huguenots as places of safety, there only remained La Rochelle. It became necessary, therefore, to destroy this last bulwark of Calvinism—a dangerous leaven with which the ferments of civil revolt and foreign war were constantly mingling.
在亨利四世放弃给胡格诺派作为安全地的重要城市中，只剩下了拉罗谢尔。因此，有必要摧毁加尔文主义的最后堡垒——这是一种危险的酵母，内乱和对外战争不断地与它混合在一起。

Spaniards, Englishmen, and Italian malcontents, adventurers of all nations, and soldiers of fortune of every sect, flocked at the first summons under the standard of the Protestants, and organized themselves like a vast association, whose branches diverged freely over all parts of Europe.
西班牙人、英国人和意大利人的不满者、各国的冒险家和各个教派的财富士兵，在新教徒的旗帜下一经召唤便蜂拥而至，并像一个巨大的协会一样组织起来，其分支机构自由地分布在欧洲各地。

La Rochelle, which had derived a new importance from the ruin of the other Calvinist cities, was, then, the focus of dissensions and ambition. Moreover, its port was the last in the kingdom of France open to the English, and by closing it against England, our eternal enemy, the cardinal completed the work of Joan of Arc and the Duc de Guise.
拉罗谢尔从其他加尔文主义城市的废墟中获得了新的重要性，当时，它是争论和野心的焦点。此外，它的港口是法兰西王国最后一个向英国人开放的港口，通过对我们永恒的敌人英国关闭它，红衣主教完成了圣女贞德和吉斯公爵的工作。

Thus Bassompierre, who was at once Protestant and Catholic— Protestant by conviction and Catholic as commander of the order of the Holy Ghost; Bassompierre, who was a German by birth and a Frenchman at heart—in short, Bassompierre, who had a distinguished command at the siege of La Rochelle, said, in charging at the head of several other Protestant nobles like himself, ‘You will see, gentlemen, that we shall be fools enough to take La Rochelle.’
巴松皮埃尔就是这样，他既是新教徒又是天主教徒——信仰新教，而作为圣灵命令的指挥官，又是天主教徒。巴松皮埃尔出生在德国，内心是法国人——简而言之，巴松皮埃尔在拉罗谢尔围攻战中指挥出色，他在率领其他几个像他一样的新教贵族冲锋时说道：“你会看到先生们，我们会傻到拿下拉罗谢尔。”

And Bassompierre was right. The cannonade of the Isle of Re presaged to him the dragonnades of the Cevennes; the taking of La Rochelle was the preface to the revocation of the Edict of Nantes.
巴松皮埃尔是对的。雷岛的炮火向他预示着塞文山脉的龙阵。夺取拉罗谢尔是废除南特敕令的前奏。

We have hinted that by the side of these views of the leveling and simplifying minister, which belong to history, the chronicler is forced to recognize the lesser motives of the amorous man and jealous rival.
我们已经暗示过，除了这些属于历史的平等和简化大臣的观点之外，编年史家还被迫承认多情的人和嫉妒的对手的次要动机。

Richelieu, as everyone knows, had loved the queen. Was this love a simple political affair, or was it naturally one of those profound passions which Anne of Austria inspired in those who approached her? That we are not able to say; but at all events, we have seen, by the anterior developments of this story, that Buckingham had the advantage over him, and in two or three circumstances, particularly that of the diamond studs, had, thanks to the devotedness of the three Musketeers and the courage and conduct of d’Artagnan, cruelly mystified him.
众所周知，黎塞留曾经爱过王后。这种爱是一件简单的政治事件，还是奥地利的安妮自然而然地激发了那些接近她的人的深刻激情之一？我们不能说；但无论如何，通过这个故事的前面的发展，我们已经看到白金汉比他有优势，并且在两三种情况下，特别是钻石耳钉，由于三个火枪手的奉献精神和达达尼昂的勇气和行为使他深深地感到困惑。

It was, then, Richelieu’s object, not only to get rid of an enemy of France, but to avenge himself on a rival; but this vengeance must be grand and striking and worthy in every way of a man who held in his hand, as his weapon for combat, the forces of a kingdom.
因此，黎塞留的目标不仅是除掉法国的敌人，而且是向对手报仇。但对于一个手中握着王国军队作为战斗武器的人来说，这种复仇必须是伟大的、引人注目的、在各方面都是值得的。

Richelieu knew that in combating England he combated Buckingham; that in triumphing over England he triumphed over Buckingham—in short, that in humiliating England in the eyes of Europe he humiliated Buckingham in the eyes of the queen.
黎塞留知道，在与英格兰作战时，他就是在与白金汉宫作战。在战胜英格兰的同时，他也战胜了白金汉——简而言之，在欧洲人眼中羞辱了英国，他也在女王眼中羞辱了白金汉。

On his side Buckingham, in pretending to maintain the honor of England, was moved by interests exactly like those of the cardinal. Buckingham also was pursuing a private vengeance. Buckingham could not under any pretense be admitted into France as an ambassador; he wished to enter it as a conqueror.
白金汉方面，假装维护英格兰的荣誉，实际上是被红衣主教的利益所感动。白金汉也在进行私人复仇。白金汉不能以任何借口被允许以大使身份进入法国；他希望以征服者的身份进入它。

It resulted from this that the real stake in this game, which two most powerful kingdoms played for the good pleasure of two amorous men, was simply a kind look from Anne of Austria.
由此可见，这场两个最强大的王国为了两个多情男人的快乐而玩的游戏，真正的赌注只是奥地利安妮的一个善意的眼神。

The first advantage had been gained by Buckingham. Arriving unexpectedly in sight of the Isle of Re with ninety vessels and nearly twenty thousand men, he had surprised the Comte de Toiras, who commanded for the king in the Isle, and he had, after a bloody conflict, effected his landing.
白金汉取得了第一个优势。他率领九十艘船只和近两万人出人意料地抵达雷岛，令负责岛上国王指挥的图伊拉斯伯爵大吃一惊，经过一场血腥冲突后，他成功登陆。

Allow us to observe in passing that in this fight perished the Baron de Chantal; that the Baron de Chantal left a little orphan girl eighteen months old, and that this little girl was afterward Mme. de Sevigne.
请允许我们顺便指出，在这场战斗中，尚塔尔男爵阵亡了。尚塔尔男爵留下了一个十八个月大的孤女，这个小女孩就是后来的夫人。德塞维涅。

The Comte de Toiras retired into the citadel St. Martin with his garrison, and threw a hundred men into a little fort called the fort of La Pree.
图拉斯伯爵带着他的驻军撤退到圣马丁城堡，并把一百人扔进了一个叫做拉普雷堡垒的小堡垒。

This event had hastened the resolutions of the cardinal; and till the king and he could take the command of the siege of La Rochelle, which was determined, he had sent Monsieur to direct the first operations, and had ordered all the troops he could dispose of to march toward the theater of war. It was of this detachment, sent as a vanguard, that our friend d’Artagnan formed a part.
这一事件加速了红衣主教的决议。在国王和他能够指挥围攻拉罗谢尔之前，他已派先生指挥第一批行动，并命令他可以调动的所有部队向战区进军。我们的朋友达达尼昂就加入了这支分遣队，作为先锋队。

The king, as we have said, was to follow as soon as his Bed of Justice had been held; but on rising from his Bed of Justice on the twenty-eighth of June, he felt himself attacked by fever. He was, notwithstanding, anxious to set out; but his illness becoming more serious, he was forced to stop at Villeroy.
正如我们已经说过的，国王一旦占据了他的正义之床，就将跟随他。但六月二十八日，当他从正义之床起身时，他感到自己发烧了。尽管如此，他还是急于出发。但他的病情越来越严重，他被迫在维勒鲁瓦停留。

Now, whenever the king halted, the Musketeers halted. It followed that d’Artagnan, who was as yet purely and simply in the Guards, found himself, for the time at least, separated from his good friends—Athos, Porthos, and Aramis. This separation, which was no more than an unpleasant circumstance, would have certainly become a cause of serious uneasiness if he had been able to guess by what unknown dangers he was surrounded.
现在，只要国王停下来，火枪手们就会停下来。随后，达达尼昂还纯粹地、单纯地加入了近卫军，他发现自己至少暂时与他的好朋友——阿托斯、波尔托斯和阿拉米斯——分开了。这种分离不过是一种不愉快的情况，如果他能够猜到自己被什么未知的危险所包围的话，肯定会引起严重的不安。

He, however, arrived without accident in the camp established before La Rochelle, of the tenth of the month of September of the year 1627.
然而，1627 年 9 月 10 日，他毫无意外地抵达拉罗谢尔之前建立的营地。

Everything was in the same state. The Duke of Buckingham and his English, masters of the Isle of Re, continued to besiege, but without success, the citadel St. Martin and the fort of La Pree; and hostilities with La Rochelle had commenced, two or three days before, about a fort which the Duc d’Angouleme had caused to be constructed near the city.
一切都处于同样的状态。白金汉公爵和他的英国人，雷岛的主人，继续围攻圣马丁城堡和拉普雷堡垒，但没有成功。两三天前，与拉罗谢尔的敌对行动已经开始，原因是昂古莱姆公爵在该城市附近建造了一座堡垒。

The Guards, under the command of M. Dessessart, took up their quarters at the Minimes; but, as we know, d’Artagnan, possessed with ambition to enter the Musketeers, had formed but few friendships among his comrades, and he felt himself isolated and given up to his own reflections.
近卫军在德塞萨特先生的指挥下，在米尼姆驻地。但是，正如我们所知，达达尼昂一心想加入火枪手行列，但他与战友之间的友谊却很少，他感到自己被孤立了，只能沉迷于自己的思考。

His reflections were not very cheerful. From the time of his arrival in Paris, he had been mixed up with public affairs; but his own private affairs had made no great progress, either in love or fortune. As to love, the only woman he could have loved was Mme. Bonacieux; and Mme. Bonacieux had disappeared, without his being able to discover what had become of her. As to fortune, he had made—he, humble as he was—an enemy of the cardinal; that is to say, of a man before whom trembled the greatest men of the kingdom, beginning with the king.
他的心情不太愉快。自从他到达巴黎以来，他就一直卷入公共事务。但他自己的私事却没有取得太大的进展，无论是爱情还是财富。至于爱情，他唯一能爱的女人就是夫人。博纳西厄；和夫人。博纳希厄消失了，他无法发现她的下落。至于命运，他——尽管他很卑微——已经成为了红衣主教的敌人。也就是说，从国王开始，王国中最伟大的人物都在他面前颤抖。

That man had the power to crush him, and yet he had not done so. For a mind so perspicuous as that of d’Artagnan, this indulgence was a light by which he caught a glimpse of a better future.
那个人有能力碾压他，但他却没有这么做。对于达达尼昂这样头脑敏锐的人来说，这种放纵是一盏明灯，让他瞥见了更美好的未来。

Then he had made himself another enemy, less to be feared, he thought; but nevertheless, he instinctively felt, not to be despised. This enemy was Milady.
然后他又给自己制造了另一个敌人，他想，这个敌人更不值得害怕了。但尽管如此，他本能地感觉到，自己不应该被轻视。这个敌人就是米莱迪。

In exchange for all this, he had acquired the protection and good will of the queen; but the favor of the queen was at the present time an additional cause of persecution, and her protection, as it was known, protected badly—as witness Chalais and Mme. Bonacieux.
这一切的交换，是他得到了女王的保护和善意；但女王的宠爱目前是迫害的另一个原因，众所周知，她的保护受到了严重的保护——正如查莱和夫人所证。博纳西厄。

What he had clearly gained in all this was the diamond, worth five or six thousand livres, which he wore on his finger; and even this diamond—supposing that d’Artagnan, in his projects of ambition, wished to keep it, to make it someday a pledge for the gratitude of the queen—had not in the meanwhile, since he could not part with it, more value than the gravel he trod under his feet.
他在这一切中显然得到的是他戴在手指上的那颗价值五六千里弗的钻石；甚至连这颗钻石——假设达达尼昂在他的野心计划中希望保留它，以便有一天将它作为对王后感激之情的承诺——同时，因为他无法放弃它，所以它也没有更多。比他脚下踩的碎石更有价值。

We say the gravel he trod under his feet, for d’Artagnan made these reflections while walking solitarily along a pretty little road which led from the camp to the village of Angoutin. Now, these reflections had led him further than he intended, and the day was beginning to decline when, by the last ray of the setting sun, he thought he saw the barrel of a musket glitter from behind a hedge.
我们说他脚下踩着碎石，因为达达尼昂在一条从营地通向安古坦村的漂亮小路上独自行走时做出了这些思考。现在，这些倒影让他超出了他的预期，天色开始暗下来，在夕阳的最后一缕阳光下，他觉得自己看到了一支火枪的枪管在树篱后面闪闪发光。

D’Artagnan had a quick eye and a prompt understanding. He comprehended that the musket had not come there of itself, and that he who bore it had not concealed himself behind a hedge with any friendly intentions. He determined, therefore, to direct his course as clear from it as he could when, on the opposite side of the road, from behind a rock, he perceived the extremity of another musket.
达达尼昂目光敏锐，理解力迅速。他明白这把火枪并不是自己来到那里的，而携带火枪的人也没有怀着任何友好的意图隐藏在树篱后面。因此，当他从路对面的一块岩石后面看到另一支步枪的末端时，他决定尽可能清楚地引导自己的路线。

This was evidently an ambuscade.
这显然是一场伏击。

The young man cast a glance at the first musket and saw, with a certain degree of inquietude, that it was leveled in his direction; but as soon as he perceived that the orifice of the barrel was motionless, he threw himself upon the ground. At the same instant the gun was fired, and he heard the whistling of a ball pass over his head.
年轻人看了一眼第一支步枪，带着某种程度的不安，发现它正对着他的方向。但当他发现桶口一动不动时，他就扑倒在地。与此同时，枪响了，他听到一个球从他头顶飞过的呼啸声。

No time was to be lost. D’Artagnan sprang up with a bound, and at the same instant the ball from the other musket tore up the gravel on the very spot on the road where he had thrown himself with his face to the ground.
不能浪费时间。达达尼昂一跃而起，与此同时，另一支步枪的子弹击碎了路上的碎石，就在他脸朝下摔倒的地方。

D’Artagnan was not one of those foolhardy men who seek a ridiculous death in order that it may be said of them that they did not retreat a single step. Besides, courage was out of the question here; d’Artagnan had fallen into an ambush.
达达尼昂并不是那种为了让人们说他们寸步不退而寻求可笑的死亡的鲁莽之人。此外，在这里，勇气是不可能的。达达尼昂陷入了埋伏。

‘If there is a third shot,’ said he to himself, ‘I am a lost man.’
“如果再开第三枪，”他自言自语道，“我就完蛋了。”

He immediately, therefore, took to his heels and ran toward the camp, with the swiftness of the young men of his country, so renowned for their agility; but whatever might be his speed, the first who fired, having had time to reload, fired a second shot, and this time so well aimed that it struck his hat, and carried it ten paces from him.
于是，他立即拔腿就跑，以本国年轻人的敏捷度向营地跑去，而他的国家以敏捷着称。但无论他的速度有多快，第一个开枪的人在有时间重新装弹后，又开了第二枪，这次瞄准得非常好，击中了他的帽子，把帽子带离了他十步远。

As he, however, had no other hat, he picked up this as he ran, and arrived at his quarters very pale and quite out of breath. He sat down without saying a word to anybody, and began to reflect.
然而，由于他没有别的帽子，他边跑边捡起这顶帽子，回到自己的住处时，脸色苍白，气喘吁吁。他坐下来，没有对任何人说一句话，开始思考。

This event might have three causes:
此事件可能有以下三个原因：

The first and the most natural was that it might be an ambuscade of the Rochellais, who might not be sorry to kill one of his Majesty’s Guards, because it would be an enemy the less, and this enemy might have a well-furnished purse in his pocket.
第一个也是最自然的情况是，这可能是罗谢莱家族的伏击，罗谢莱家族可能不会因为杀死国王陛下的一名卫兵而感到遗憾，因为这将是一个较小的敌人，而这个敌人可能在当地有一个精良的钱包。他的口袋。

D’Artagnan took his hat, examined the hole made by the ball, and shook his head. The ball was not a musket ball—it was an arquebus ball. The accuracy of the aim had first given him the idea that a special weapon had been employed. This could not, then, be a military ambuscade, as the ball was not of the regular caliber.
达达尼昂拿起帽子，检查了球留下的洞，然后摇了摇头。这个球不是步枪弹，而是火绳枪弹。瞄准的准确性首先让他意识到使用的是特殊武器。那么，这不可能是军事伏击，因为球不是常规口径的。

This might be a kind remembrance of Monsieur the Cardinal. It may be observed that at the very moment when, thanks to the ray of the sun, he perceived the gun barrel, he was thinking with astonishment on the forbearance of his Eminence with respect to him.
这可能是对红衣主教先生的善意纪念。可以看出，就在他借着阳光看到枪管的那一刻，他惊讶地想到主教阁下对他的宽容。

But d’Artagnan again shook his head. For people toward whom he had but to put forth his hand, his Eminence had rarely recourse to such means.
但达达尼昂再次摇了摇头。对于那些他只能伸出援手的人，陛下很少诉诸这种手段。

It might be a vengeance of Milady; that was most probable.
这可能是米莱迪的报复；这是最有可能的。

He tried in vain to remember the faces or dress of the assassins; he had escaped so rapidly that he had not had leisure to notice anything.
他徒劳地试图记住刺客的面孔或衣着。他逃得如此之快，根本没有时间去注意什么。

‘Ah, my poor friends!’ murmured d’Artagnan; ‘where are you? And that you should fail me!’
“啊，我可怜的朋友们！”达达尼昂低声说道。 '你在哪里？你应该让我失望！

D’Artagnan passed a very bad night. Three or four times he started up, imagining that a man was approaching his bed for the purpose of stabbing him. Nevertheless, day dawned without darkness having brought any accident.
达达尼昂度过了一个非常糟糕的夜晚。有三四次他惊醒，想象一个男人正靠近他的床，想要刺伤他。然而，天还是亮了，黑暗并没有带来任何意外。

But d’Artagnan well suspected that that which was deferred was not relinquished.
但达达尼昂很怀疑被推迟的事情并没有被放弃。

D’Artagnan remained all day in his quarters, assigning as a reason to himself that the weather was bad.
达达尼昂一整天都待在自己的住处，给自己找了一个理由：天气不好。

At nine o’clock the next morning, the drums beat to arms. The Duc d’Orleans visited the posts. The guards were under arms, and d’Artagnan took his place in the midst of his comrades.
第二天早上九点，锣鼓敲响。奥尔良公爵参观了这些哨所。卫兵都拿起武器，达达尼昂站在他的战友中间。

Monsieur passed along the front of the line; then all the superior officers approached him to pay their compliments, M. Dessessart, captain of the Guards, as well as the others.
先生走在队伍的最前面。随后，所有上级军官都向他致意，包括近卫军队长德塞萨特先生以及其他人。

At the expiration of a minute or two, it appeared to d’Artagnan that M. Dessessart made him a sign to approach. He waited for a fresh gesture on the part of his superior, for fear he might be mistaken; but this gesture being repeated, he left the ranks, and advanced to receive orders.
一两分钟后，达达尼昂觉得德塞萨特先生示意他走近。他等待上级做出新的姿态，生怕自己会弄错。但他重复了这个动作，就离开了队伍，上前去接受命令。

‘Monsieur is about to ask for some men of good will for a dangerous mission, but one which will do honor to those who shall accomplish it; and I made you a sign in order that you might hold yourself in readiness.’
“先生将要求一些善意的人来执行一项危险的任务，但要为那些完成这项任务的人带来荣誉；我给你做了一个手势，以便你做好准备。

‘Thanks, my captain!’ replied d’Artagnan, who wished for nothing better than an opportunity to distinguish himself under the eye of the lieutenant general.
“谢谢，我的船长！”达达尼昂回答道，他最希望的就是有机会在中将的注目下脱颖而出。

In fact the Rochellais had made a sortie during the night, and had retaken a bastion of which the royal army had gained possession two days before. The matter was to ascertain, by reconnoitering, how the enemy guarded this bastion.
事实上，罗谢莱人在夜间出击，重新夺回了皇家军队两天前占领的一座堡垒。任务是通过侦察来查明敌人是如何守卫这座堡垒的。

At the end of a few minutes Monsieur raised his voice, and said, ‘I want for this mission three or four volunteers, led by a man who can be depended upon.’
几分钟后，先生提高了声音说：“这次任务我需要三到四名志愿者，由一个值得信赖的人领导。”

‘As to the man to be depended upon, I have him under my hand, monsieur,’ said M. Dessessart, pointing to d’Artagnan; ‘and as to the four or five volunteers, Monsieur has but to make his intentions known, and the men will not be wanting.’
“至于那个可以依靠的人，我已经把他交给我了，先生，”德塞萨尔先生指着达达尼昂说道。 “至于四五个志愿者，先生只需表明他的意图，这些人就不会缺少。”

‘Four men of good will who will risk being killed with me!’ said d’Artagnan, raising his sword.
“四个善意的人愿意和我一起冒着被杀的危险！”达达尼昂举起剑说道。

Two of his comrades of the Guards immediately sprang forward, and two other soldiers having joined them, the number was deemed sufficient. D’Artagnan declined all others, being unwilling to take the first chance from those who had the priority.
两名近卫军战友立即扑了上来，另外两名士兵也加入了进来，人数也算足够了。达达尼昂拒绝了所有其他人，不愿意从那些拥有优先权的人那里获得第一个机会。

It was not known whether, after the taking of the bastion, the Rochellais had evacuated it or left a garrison in it; the object then was to examine the place near enough to verify the reports.
目前尚不清楚罗谢莱家族在攻占堡垒后是否已将其撤离或在其中留下了驻军。当时的目的是检查足够近的地方以核实报告。

D’Artagnan set out with his four companions, and followed the trench; the two Guards marched abreast with him, and the two soldiers followed behind.
达达尼昂和他的四个同伴出发了，沿着战壕前进。两名侍卫与他并肩而行，两名士兵跟在后面。

They arrived thus, screened by the lining of the trench, till they came within a hundred paces of the bastion. There, on turning round, d’Artagnan perceived that the two soldiers had disappeared.
他们就这样到达了，在战壕的衬里的掩护下，直到他们来到了距离堡垒一百步的地方。达达尼昂一转身，就发现那两个士兵不见了。

He thought that, beginning to be afraid, they had stayed behind, and he continued to advance.
他开始害怕，以为他们已经落后了，于是他继续前进。

At the turning of the counterscarp they found themselves within about sixty paces of the bastion. They saw no one, and the bastion seemed abandoned.
在崖壁的拐角处，他们发现自己距离堡垒大约有六十步。他们没有看到任何人，堡垒似乎被遗弃了。

The three composing our forlorn hope were deliberating whether they should proceed any further, when all at once a circle of smoke enveloped the giant of stone, and a dozen balls came whistling around d’Artagnan and his companions.
构成我们绝望希望的三个人正在考虑是否应该继续前进，突然一圈烟雾笼罩了这个石头巨人，十几颗球在达达尼昂和他的同伴周围呼啸而过。

They knew all they wished to know; the bastion was guarded. A longer stay in this dangerous spot would have been useless imprudence. D’Artagnan and his two companions turned their backs, and commenced a retreat which resembled a flight.
他们知道他们想知道的一切；堡垒被守卫着。在这个危险的地方停留更长时间是无用的轻率行为。达达尼昂和他的两个同伴转身，开始了类似逃跑的撤退。

On arriving at the angle of the trench which was to serve them as a rampart, one of the Guardsmen fell. A ball had passed through his breast. The other, who was safe and sound, continued his way toward the camp.
当到达作为他们的壁垒的战壕的角度时，一名卫兵倒下了。一个球穿过了他的胸口。另一个人安然无恙，继续朝营地走去。

D’Artagnan was not willing to abandon his companion thus, and stooped to raise him and assist him in regaining the lines; but at this moment two shots were fired. One ball struck the head of the already-wounded guard, and the other flattened itself against a rock, after having passed within two inches of d’Artagnan.
达达尼昂不愿意就这么抛弃他的同伴，弯下腰扶起他，帮助他重新站稳了脚跟。但就在这时，两声枪响了。一颗球击中了已经受伤的后卫的头部，另一颗球在经过达达尼昂不到两英寸后，撞在了岩石上。

The young man turned quickly round, for this attack could not have come from the bastion, which was hidden by the angle of the trench. The idea of the two soldiers who had abandoned him occurred to his mind, and with them he remembered the assassins of two evenings before. He resolved this time to know with whom he had to deal, and fell upon the body of his comrade as if he were dead.
年轻人迅速转过身来，因为这次攻击不可能来自堡垒，因为堡垒被战壕的角度所隐藏。他的脑海中浮现出那两个抛弃他的士兵的念头，同时他也想起了前两天晚上的刺客。这次他决定知道自己要对付的是谁，于是扑倒在同伴的尸体上，就像他死了一样。

He quickly saw two heads appear above an abandoned work within thirty paces of him; they were the heads of the two soldiers. D’Artagnan had not been deceived; these two men had only followed for the purpose of assassinating him, hoping that the young man’s death would be placed to the account of the enemy.
他很快就看到在距离他三十步的地方，一个废弃的作品上方出现了两个头颅。他们是两名士兵的头。达达尼昂并没有被欺骗。这两个人跟踪他，只是为了刺杀他，希望将年轻人的死算在敌人的账上。

As he might be only wounded and might denounce their crime, they came up to him with the purpose of making sure. Fortunately, deceived by d’Artagnan’s trick, they neglected to reload their guns.
由于他可能只是受了伤，并且可能会谴责他们的罪行，所以他们走到他面前，目的是确定一下。幸运的是，他们被达达尼昂的诡计所欺骗，忘记了给枪重新装弹。

When they were within ten paces of him, d’Artagnan, who in falling had taken care not to let go his sword, sprang up close to them.
当他们距离他不到十步时，达达尼昂在倒地时小心翼翼地不放开他的剑，突然跳到他们身边。

The assassins comprehended that if they fled toward the camp without having killed their man, they should be accused by him; therefore their first idea was to join the enemy. One of them took his gun by the barrel, and used it as he would a club. He aimed a terrible blow at d’Artagnan, who avoided it by springing to one side; but by this movement he left a passage free to the bandit, who darted off toward the bastion. As the Rochellais who guarded the bastion were ignorant of the intentions of the man they saw coming toward them, they fired upon him, and he fell, struck by a ball which broke his shoulder.
刺客们明白，如果他们没有杀死自己的人就逃向营地，他们就会受到他的指控；因此他们的第一个想法就是加入敌人。其中一个人拿着枪的枪管，像使用棍棒一样使用它。他向达达尼昂发出了可怕的一击，达达尼昂跳到一边躲开了这一击。但他的这一举动给强盗留下了一条通道，强盗冲向堡垒。由于守卫堡垒的罗谢莱人不知道他们看到的那个人的意图，他们向他开枪，他被一颗球击中，肩膀骨折了，倒下了。

Meantime d’Artagnan had thrown himself upon the other soldier, attacking him with his sword. The conflict was not long; the wretch had nothing to defend himself with but his discharged arquebus. The sword of the Guardsman slipped along the barrel of the now-useless weapon, and passed through the thigh of the assassin, who fell.
与此同时，达达尼昂扑向另一名士兵，用剑攻击他。冲突持续的时间并不长；这个可怜虫除了他的火绳枪之外没有任何东西可以保护自己。禁卫军的剑顺着这件已经无用的武器的枪管滑过，穿过了刺客的大腿，后者倒了下去。

D’Artagnan immediately placed the point of his sword at his throat.
达达尼昂立即将剑尖抵在他的喉咙上。

‘Oh, do not kill me!’ cried the bandit. ‘Pardon, pardon, my officer, and I will tell you all.’
“哦，别杀我！”强盗喊道。 “请原谅，请原谅，我的军官，我会告诉你一切。”

‘Is your secret of enough importance to me to spare your life for it?’ asked the young man, withholding his arm.
“你的秘密对我来说足够重要，以至于可以饶你一命吗？”年轻人收回手臂，问道。

‘Yes; if you think existence worth anything to a man of twenty, as you are, and who may hope for everything, being handsome and brave, as you are.’
'是的;如果你认为生存对于像你一样的二十岁男人来说有什么价值，并且像你一样对一切充满希望，英俊勇敢，那么。

‘Wretch,’ cried d’Artagnan, ‘speak quickly! Who employed you to assassinate me?’
“可怜虫，”达达尼昂喊道，“快说！谁雇用你来刺杀我的？

‘A woman whom I don’t know, but who is called Milady.’
“一个我不认识的女人，但她叫米莱迪。”

‘But if you don’t know this woman, how do you know her name?’
“但如果你不认识这个女人，你怎么知道她的名字呢？”

‘My comrade knows her, and called her so. It was with him she agreed, and not with me; he even has in his pocket a letter from that person, who attaches great importance to you, as I have heard him say.’
“我的同伴认识她，并这么称呼她。她同意的是他，而不是我。他的口袋里甚至还藏着一封来自那个人的信，正如我听他说的那样，他非常重视你。

‘But how did you become concerned in this villainous affair?’
“但是你怎么会卷入这件邪恶的事情呢？”

‘He proposed to me to undertake it with him, and I agreed.’
“他向我提议和他一起做这件事，我同意了。”

‘And how much did she give you for this fine enterprise?’
“为了这个伟大的事业，她给了你多少钱？”

‘A hundred louis.’
“一百路易。”

‘Well, come!’ said the young man, laughing, ‘she thinks I am worth something. A hundred louis? Well, that was a temptation for two wretches like you. I understand why you accepted it, and I grant you my pardon; but upon one condition.’
“好吧，来吧！”年轻人笑着说，“她认为我有价值。”一百路易斯？好吧，这对像你这样的两个可怜虫来说是一个诱惑。我明白你为什么接受它，我向你表示歉意；但有一个条件。

‘What is that?’ said the soldier, uneasy at perceiving that all was not over.
“那是什么？”士兵问道，他不安地发现一切还没有结束。

‘That you will go and fetch me the letter your comrade has in his pocket.’
“你去把你同伴口袋里的那封信拿来给我。”

‘But,’ cried the bandit, ‘that is only another way of killing me. How can I go and fetch that letter under the fire of the bastion?’
“但是，”强盗喊道，“这只是杀死我的另一种方式。”我怎样才能去堡垒的火下取那封信呢？

‘You must nevertheless make up your mind to go and get it, or I swear you shall die by my hand.’
“不过，你必须下定决心去拿它，否则我发誓你会死在我手上。”

‘Pardon, monsieur; pity! In the name of that young lady you love, and whom you perhaps believe dead but who is not!’ cried the bandit, throwing himself upon his knees and leaning upon his hand—for he began to lose his strength with his blood.
“请原谅，先生；遗憾！以你所爱的那位年轻女士的名义，你也许相信她已经死了，但实际上她并没有死！”强盗喊道，跪倒在地，用手撑着——因为他开始因鲜血而失去力量。

‘And how do you know there is a young woman whom I love, and that I believed that woman dead?’ asked d’Artagnan.
“你怎么知道我爱着一个年轻女子，而且我相信那个女人已经死了？”达达尼昂问道。

‘By that letter which my comrade has in his pocket.’
“凭我同伴口袋里的那封信。”

‘You see, then,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘that I must have that letter. So no more delay, no more hesitation; or else whatever may be my repugnance to soiling my sword a second time with the blood of a wretch like you, I swear by my faith as an honest man—‘ and at these words d’Artagnan made so fierce a gesture that the wounded man sprang up.
“那么，你瞧，”达达尼昂说，“我必须拥有那封信。所以不要再拖延，不要再犹豫；否则，无论我多么厌恶第二次让像你这样的坏蛋的鲜血弄脏我的剑，我作为一个诚实的人以我的信仰发誓——”说完这句话，达达尼昂做出了一个如此激烈的手势，以至于受伤的人兴起。

‘Stop, stop!’ cried he, regaining strength by force of terror. ‘I will go—I will go!’
“停下来，停下来！”他喊道，恐惧的力量恢复了体力。 “我去——我去！”

D’Artagnan took the soldier’s arquebus, made him go on before him, and urged him toward his companion by pricking him behind with his sword.
达达尼昂接过士兵的火绳枪，让他走在前面，并用剑刺伤他的同伴，催促他走向他的同伴。

It was a frightful thing to see this wretch, leaving a long track of blood on the ground he passed over, pale with approaching death, trying to drag himself along without being seen to the body of his accomplice, which lay twenty paces from him.
看到这个可怜虫，在他经过的地上留下了一条长长的血迹，因死亡临近而脸色苍白，他试图拖着自己走，不让别人看到他同伙的尸体，这真是一件可怕的事情，而他的同伙的尸体就在离他二十步远的地方。

Terror was so strongly painted on his face, covered with a cold sweat, that d’Artagnan took pity on him, and casting upon him a look of contempt, ‘Stop,’ said he, ‘I will show you the difference between a man of courage and such a coward as you. Stay where you are; I will go myself.’
他的脸上充满了恐惧，浑身都是冷汗，达达尼昂对他产生了怜悯，并向他投来了轻蔑的目光，“停下来，”他说，“我会让你看看一个人与一个人的区别。”勇气和像你这样的胆小鬼。保持你原有位置;我自己去。

And with a light step, an eye on the watch, observing the movements of the enemy and taking advantage of the accidents of the ground, d’Artagnan succeeded in reaching the second soldier.
达达尼昂迈着轻快的步伐，眼睛盯着表，观察敌人的动向，利用地面的意外，成功地接近了第二个士兵。

There were two means of gaining his object—to search him on the spot, or to carry him away, making a buckler of his body, and search him in the trench.
达到他的目的有两种方法：就地搜查他，或者把他带走，把他的身体制成圆盾，然后在战壕里搜查他。

D’Artagnan preferred the second means, and lifted the assassin onto his shoulders at the moment the enemy fired.
达达尼昂更喜欢第二种方式，在敌人开枪的那一刻，他将刺客举到了肩膀上。

A slight shock, the dull noise of three balls which penetrated the flesh, a last cry, a convulsion of agony, proved to d’Artagnan that the would-be assassin had saved his life.
一阵轻微的震动，三颗球穿透肉体发出的沉闷声音，最后一声呼喊，一阵痛苦的抽搐，向达达尼昂证明，那个潜在的刺客救了他的命。

D’Artagnan regained the trench, and threw the corpse beside the wounded man, who was as pale as death.
达达尼昂重新夺回战壕，把尸体扔到伤员身边，伤员脸色苍白如死人。

Then he began to search. A leather pocketbook, a purse, in which was evidently a part of the sum which the bandit had received, with a dice box and dice, completed the possessions of the dead man.
然后他开始寻找。一个皮革皮夹，一个钱包，里面显然是强盗收到的一部分款项，还有一个骰子盒和骰子，构成了死者的所有财产。

He left the box and dice where they fell, threw the purse to the wounded man, and eagerly opened the pocketbook.
他把盒子和骰子留在原地，把钱包扔给受伤的人，然后急切地打开钱包。

Among some unimportant papers he found the following letter, that which he had sought at the risk of his life:
在一些不重要的文件中，他发现了下面这封信，这是他冒着生命危险寻找的：

‘Since you have lost sight of that woman and she is now in safety in the convent, which you should never have allowed her to reach, try, at least, not to miss the man. If you do, you know that my hand stretches far, and that you shall pay very dearly for the hundred louis you have from me.’
“既然你已经看不到那个女人了，而且她现在安全地待在修道院里，你就不应该让她到达修道院，至少尽量不要错过那个男人。如果你这样做了，你就知道我的手伸得很长，你将为我从我这里得到的一百路易付出非常高昂的代价。

No signature. Nevertheless it was plain the letter came from Milady. He consequently kept it as a piece of evidence, and being in safety behind the angle of the trench, he began to interrogate the wounded man. He confessed that he had undertaken with his comrade—the same who was killed—to carry off a young woman who was to leave Paris by the Barriere de La Villette; but having stopped to drink at a cabaret, they had missed the carriage by ten minutes.
没有签名。尽管如此，这封信显然是米莱迪寄来的。因此，他保留了它作为证据，并在战壕的角落后面安全地开始审问受伤的人。他承认，他和他的战友（也就是被杀的战友）约定，要带走一名即将从拉维莱特栅栏离开巴黎的年轻女子；但他们在一家歌舞厅停下来喝酒后，比马车晚了十分钟。

‘But what were you to do with that woman?’ asked d’Artagnan, with anguish.
“但是你要对那个女人做什么呢？”达达尼昂痛苦地问道。

‘We were to have conveyed her to a hotel in the Place Royale,’ said the wounded man.
“我们本应将她送往皇家广场的一家酒店，”受伤男子说。

‘Yes, yes!’ murmured d’Artagnan; ‘that’s the place—Milady’s own residence!’
“是的，是的！”达达尼昂低声说。 “就是那个地方——米莱迪自己的住处！”

Then the young man tremblingly comprehended what a terrible thirst for vengeance urged this woman on to destroy him, as well as all who loved him, and how well she must be acquainted with the affairs of the court, since she had discovered all. There could be no doubt she owed this information to the cardinal.
然后，年轻人颤抖着明白了这个女人是多么渴望复仇，想要毁灭他以及所有爱他的人，而且她必须熟悉宫廷的事务，因为她已经发现了一切。毫无疑问，她把这个信息归功于红衣主教。

But amid all this he perceived, with a feeling of real joy, that the queen must have discovered the prison in which poor Mme. Bonacieux was explaining her devotion, and that she had freed her from that prison; and the letter he had received from the young woman, and her passage along the road of Chaillot like an apparition, were now explained.
但在这一切之中，他怀着一种真正的喜悦感意识到，王后一定已经发现了可怜的夫人的监狱。博纳希厄正在解释她的奉献精神，以及她将她从监狱中释放出来。他从这位年轻女子那里收到的信，以及她像幽灵一样沿着夏乐路的经过，现在都得到了解释。

Then also, as Athos had predicted, it became possible to find Mme. Bonacieux, and a convent was not impregnable.
然后，正如阿托斯所预测的那样，找到夫人成为可能。博纳希厄修道院并不是坚不可摧的。

This idea completely restored clemency to his heart. He turned toward the wounded man, who had watched with intense anxiety all the various expressions of his countenance, and holding out his arm to him, said, ‘Come, I will not abandon you thus. Lean upon me, and let us return to the camp.’
这个念头让他的心彻底恢复了仁慈。他转向受伤的人，他焦急地注视着他脸上的各种表情，向他伸出手臂，说道：“来吧，我不会就这样抛弃你。”靠在我身上，让我们回营地吧。”

‘Yes,’ said the man, who could scarcely believe in such magnanimity, ‘but is it not to have me hanged?’
“是的，”那人说道，他几乎不敢相信如此宽宏大量的内容，“但这不是要绞死我吗？”

‘You have my word,’ said he; ‘for the second time I give you your life.’
“我向你保证，”他说。 “我第二次给你生命。”

The wounded man sank upon his knees, to again kiss the feet of his preserver; but d’Artagnan, who had no longer a motive for staying so near the enemy, abridged the testimonials of his gratitude.
受伤的人跪下，再次亲吻保护者的脚。但达达尼昂不再有理由继续与敌人如此接近，他删去了他的感激之情。

The Guardsman who had returned at the first discharge announced the death of his four companions. They were therefore much astonished and delighted in the regiment when they saw the young man come back safe and sound.
第一次退伍回来的卫兵宣布了他的四名同伴的死亡。因此，当他们看到这个年轻人安然无恙地回来时，团里的人都感到非常惊讶和高兴。

D’Artagnan explained the sword wound of his companion by a sortie which he improvised. He described the death of the other soldier, and the perils they had encountered. This recital was for him the occasion of veritable triumph. The whole army talked of this expedition for a day, and Monsieur paid him his compliments upon it. Besides this, as every great action bears its recompense with it, the brave exploit of d’Artagnan resulted in the restoration of the tranquility he had lost. In fact, d’Artagnan believed that he might be tranquil, as one of his two enemies was killed and the other devoted to his interests.
达达尼昂用他即兴出击的方式解释了他同伴的剑伤。他描述了另一名士兵的死亡以及他们所遇到的危险。这次演奏会对他来说是一次真正的胜利。全军谈论了这次远征一天，先生对此表示赞赏。除此之外，每一次伟大的行动都会有其回报，达达尼昂的英勇事迹使他恢复了失去的平静。事实上，达达尼昂相信他可能会平静，因为他的两个敌人之一被杀，另一个则致力于他的利益。

This tranquillity proved one thing—that d’Artagnan did not yet know Milady.
这种平静证明了一件事——达达尼昂还不认识米莱迪。

42 THE ANJOU WINE
42 安茹葡萄酒

After the most disheartening news of the king’s health, a report of his convalescence began to prevail in the camp; and as he was very anxious to be in person at the siege, it was said that as soon as he could mount a horse he would set forward.
在国王健康状况最令人沮丧的消息传出后，有关他康复的消息开始在军营中流传。由于他急切地想亲临围城，据说只要他能上马，他就会出发。

Meantime, Monsieur, who knew that from one day to the other he might expect to be removed from his command by the Duc d’Angouleme, by Bassompierre, or by Schomberg, who were all eager for his post, did but little, lost his days in wavering, and did not dare to attempt any great enterprise to drive the English from the Isle of Re, where they still besieged the citadel St. Martin and the fort of La Pree, as on their side the French were besieging La Rochelle.
与此同时，先生知道，日复一日，他可能会被昂古莱姆公爵、巴松皮埃尔或朔姆贝格解除指挥权，他们都渴望他的职位，但他几乎没有做任何事，失去了他的地位。几天来，他们一直在犹豫不决，不敢尝试任何伟大的事业来将英国人赶出雷岛，他们仍然围困着雷岛的圣马丁城堡和拉普雷要塞，而法国人则围攻拉罗谢尔。

D’Artagnan, as we have said, had become more tranquil, as always happens after a past danger, particularly when the danger seems to have vanished. He only felt one uneasiness, and that was at not hearing any tidings from his friends.
正如我们所说，达达尼昂变得更加平静，就像过去的危险之后总是发生的那样，特别是当危险似乎已经消失时。他只感到一种不安，那就是没有听到朋友们的任何消息。

But one morning at the commencement of the month of November everything was explained to him by this letter, dated from Villeroy:
但十一月初的一天早上，维勒鲁瓦的这封信向他解释了一切：

M. d’Artagnan,
达达尼昂先生，

MM. Athos, Porthos, and Aramis, after having had an entertainment at my house and enjoying themselves very much, created such a disturbance that the provost of the castle, a rigid man, has ordered them to be confined for some days; but I accomplish the order they have given me by forwarding to you a dozen bottles of my Anjou wine, with which they are much pleased. They are desirous that you should drink to their health in their favorite wine. I have done this, and am, monsieur, with great respect,
毫米。阿托斯、波尔托斯和阿拉米斯在我家里玩得很尽兴之后，却制造了如此大的骚乱，以至于城堡的教务长这个僵硬的人下令将他们禁闭几天；但我完成了他们给我的命令，给了你一打瓶我的安茹葡萄酒，他们对此非常满意。他们希望您为他们的健康喝上他们最喜欢的葡萄酒。我已经做到了这一点，先生，我怀着极大的敬意，

Your very humble and obedient servant,
您非常谦卑和服从的仆人，

Godeau, Purveyor of the Musketeers
戈多，火枪手的供应商

‘That’s all well!’ cried d’Artagnan. ‘They think of me in their pleasures, as I thought of them in my troubles. Well, I will certainly drink to their health with all my heart, but I will not drink alone.’
“那就好！”达达尼昂喊道。 “他们在快乐时想到我，就像我在遇到麻烦时想到他们一样。”好吧，我当然会全心全意地为他们的健康干杯，但我不会独自喝酒。

And d’Artagnan went among those Guardsmen with whom he had formed greater intimacy than with the others, to invite them to enjoy with him this present of delicious Anjou wine which had been sent him from Villeroy.
达达尼昂走到那些与他比其他人更亲密的卫兵中间，邀请他们和他一起享用维勒鲁瓦送给他的这份美味的安茹葡萄酒。

One of the two Guardsmen was engaged that evening, and another the next, so the meeting was fixed for the day after that.
那天晚上，两名卫兵中的一名有事，第二天还有另一名，所以会议定在后一天。

D’Artagnan, on his return, sent the twelve bottles of wine to the refreshment room of the Guards, with strict orders that great care should be taken of it; and then, on the day appointed, as the dinner was fixed for midday d’Artagnan sent Planchet at nine in the morning to assist in preparing everything for the entertainment.
达达尼昂回来后，将十二瓶酒送到近卫军的茶点室，并严格命令要小心保管。然后，在指定的日子，由于晚餐定在中午，达达尼昂在早上九点派了普朗谢去协助准备娱乐活动的一切。

Planchet, very proud of being raised to the dignity of landlord, thought he would make all ready, like an intelligent man; and with this view called in the assistance of the lackey of one of his master’s guests, named Fourreau, and the false soldier who had tried to kill d’Artagnan and who, belonging to no corps, had entered into the service of d’Artagnan, or rather of Planchet, after d’Artagnan had saved his life.
普兰切特为自己被提升为地主而感到非常自豪，他认为自己会像一个聪明人一样做好一切准备。带着这种想法，他请来了他主人的一位客人的仆人，名叫福罗，以及试图杀死达达尼昂的假士兵，他不属于任何军团，而是为达达尼昂服务的。 ，或者更确切地说是普兰谢特，在达达尼昂救了他的命之后。

The hour of the banquet being come, the two guards arrived, took their places, and the dishes were arranged on the table. Planchet waited, towel on arm; Fourreau uncorked the bottles; and Brisemont, which was the name of the convalescent, poured the wine, which was a little shaken by its journey, carefully into decanters. Of this wine, the first bottle being a little thick at the bottom, Brisemont poured the lees into a glass, and d’Artagnan desired him to drink it, for the poor devil had not yet recovered his strength.
到了宴席的时间，两个侍卫到了，就位，菜品摆上了桌子。布兰切特手臂上挂着毛巾，等待着。福罗打开了瓶子的塞子。布里斯蒙特（Brisemont），这是康复者的名字，小心翼翼地把因旅途而有点摇晃的葡萄酒倒入醒酒器中。第一瓶酒的底部有点厚，布里斯蒙特把酒糟倒进了杯子里，达达尼昂要他喝下去，因为这个可怜的家伙还没有恢复体力。

The guests having eaten the soup, were about to lift the first glass of wine to their lips, when all at once the cannon sounded from Fort Louis and Fort Neuf. The Guardsmen, imagining this to be caused by some unexpected attack, either of the besieged or the English, sprang to their swords. D’Artagnan, not less forward than they, did likewise, and all ran out, in order to repair to their posts.
客人们喝完汤，正要举起第一杯酒送到嘴边时，路易斯堡和新堡突然响起了炮声。卫兵们以为这是由某种意外袭击造成的，无论是被围困的还是英国人，都跳了起来。达达尼昂也不比他们更靠前，他也照样做了，所有人都跑了出去，以便回到自己的岗位上。

But scarcely were they out of the room before they were made aware of the cause of this noise. Cries of ‘Live the king! Live the cardinal!’ resounded on every side, and the drums were beaten in all directions.
但他们刚走出房间，就意识到了这种噪音的原因。喊叫着“国王活着！”红衣主教万岁！”四面八方响彻，鼓声四面八方响起。

In short, the king, impatient, as has been said, had come by forced marches, and had that moment arrived with all his household and a reinforcement of ten thousand troops. His Musketeers proceeded and followed him. D’Artagnan, placed in line with his company, saluted with an expressive gesture his three friends, whose eyes soon discovered him, and M. de Treville, who detected him at once.
简而言之，如前所述，国王迫不及待地强行行军，并带着他的全家和一万名增援部队来到了那一刻。他的火枪手继续前行并跟随他。达达尼昂与他的同伴排成一排，以富有表现力的姿势向他的三个朋友致意，他们的眼睛很快就发现了他，而德特雷维尔先生也立即发现了他。

The ceremony of reception over, the four friends were soon in one another’s arms.
招待仪式结束，四位朋友很快就互相拥抱在一起。

‘Pardieu!’ cried d’Artagnan, ‘you could not have arrived in better time; the dinner cannot have had time to get cold! Can it, gentlemen?’ added the young man, turning to the two Guards, whom he introduced to his friends.
“帕迪厄！”达达尼昂喊道，“你来得正是时候；晚餐不可能有时间变冷！可以吗，先生们？”年轻人转向两名卫兵补充道，并把他们介绍给了他的朋友们。

‘Ah, ah!’ said Porthos, ‘it appears we are feasting!’
“啊，啊！”波托斯说道，“看来我们正在大吃大喝！”

‘I hope,’ said Aramis, ‘there are no women at your dinner.’
“我希望，”阿拉米斯说，“你的晚餐上没有女人。”

‘Is there any drinkable wine in your tavern?’ asked Athos.
“你们的酒馆里有可以喝的酒吗？”阿托斯问道。

‘Well, pardieu! there is yours, my dear friend,’ replied d’Artagnan.
‘好吧，帕迪尤！这是你的，我亲爱的朋友，”达达尼昂回答道。

‘Our wine!’ said Athos, astonished.
“我们的酒！”阿托斯惊讶地说。

‘Yes, that you sent me.’
“是的，是你派我来的。”

‘We sent you wine?’
“我们给你送了酒？”

‘You know very well—the wine from the hills of Anjou.’
“你很清楚——来自安茹山的葡萄酒。”

‘Yes, I know what brand you are talking about.’
“是的，我知道你说的是什么品牌。”

‘The wine you prefer.’
“你喜欢的酒。”

‘Well, in the absence of champagne and chambertin, you must content yourselves with that.’
“好吧，在没有香槟和香白丹的情况下，你就满足于此吧。”

‘And so, connoisseurs in wine as we are, we have sent you some Anjou wine?’ said Porthos.
“所以，作为葡萄酒鉴赏家，我们给您送了一些安茹葡萄酒？”波托斯说道。

‘Not exactly, it is the wine that was sent by your order.’
“不完全是，是​​你点的酒。”

‘On our account?’ said the three Musketeers.
“为了我们？”三个火枪手问道。

‘Did you send this wine, Aramis?’ said Athos.
“阿拉米斯，这酒是你送来的吗？”阿托斯问道。

‘No; and you, Porthos?’
'不;你呢，波托斯？

‘No; and you, Athos?’
'不;你呢，阿托斯？

‘No!’
'不！'

‘If it was not you, it was your purveyor,’ said d’Artagnan.
“如果不是你，那就是你的供应商，”达达尼昂说。

‘Our purveyor!’
“我们的供应商！”

‘Yes, your purveyor, Godeau—the purveyor of the Musketeers.’
“是的，你的供应商，戈多——火枪手的供应商。”

‘My faith! never mind where it comes from,’ said Porthos, ‘let us taste it, and if it is good, let us drink it.’
‘我的信仰！不管它从哪里来，”波尔托斯说，“让我们尝尝，如果好的话，就让我们喝吧。”

‘No,’ said Athos; ‘don’t let us drink wine which comes from an unknown source.’
“不，”阿托斯说。 “别让我们喝来历不明的酒。”

‘You are right, Athos,’ said d’Artagnan. ‘Did none of you charge your purveyor, Godeau, to send me some wine?’
“你是对的，阿托斯，”达达尼昂说。 “戈多，你们没有人请你们的供应商给我送点酒吗？”

‘No! And yet you say he has sent you some as from us?’
'不！但你却说他给你送来了一些我们的东西？

‘Here is his letter,’ said d’Artagnan, and he presented the note to his comrades.
“这是他的信，”达达尼昂说道，然后他把信交给了他的战友们。

‘This is not his writing!’ said Athos. ‘I am acquainted with it; before we left Villeroy I settled the accounts of the regiment.’
“这不是他写的！”阿托斯说。 ‘我熟悉它；在我们离开维勒鲁瓦之前，我结算了团的账目。

‘A false letter altogether,’ said Porthos, ‘we have not been disciplined.’
“这封信完全是假的，”波托斯说，“我们没有受到纪律处分。”

‘d’Artagnan,’ said Aramis, in a reproachful tone, ‘how could you believe that we had made a disturbance?’
“达达尼昂，”阿拉米斯用责备的语气说道，“你怎么能相信我们扰乱了秩序呢？”

D’Artagnan grew pale, and a convulsive trembling shook all his limbs.
达达尼昂的脸色变得苍白，四肢剧烈颤抖。

‘Thou alarmest me!’ said Athos, who never used thee and thou but upon very particular occasions, ‘what has happened?’
“你让我惊慌了！”阿多斯说道，除了在非常特殊的场合外，他从来没有使用过“你”和“你”，“发生了什么事？”

‘Look you, my friends!’ cried d’Artagnan, ‘a horrible suspicion crosses my mind! Can this be another vengeance of that woman?’
“看看你们，我的朋友们！”达达尼昂喊道，“我的脑海中闪过了一个可怕的怀疑！难道这又是那个女人的报复？

It was now Athos who turned pale.
阿托斯现在脸色惨白。

D’Artagnan rushed toward the refreshment room, the three Musketeers and the two Guards following him.
达达尼昂冲向茶点室，三个火枪手和两个卫兵跟在他后面。

The first object that met the eyes of d’Artagnan on entering the room was Brisemont, stretched upon the ground and rolling in horrible convulsions.
达达尼昂进入房间后第一个映入眼帘的就是布里斯蒙特，他躺在地上，在可怕的抽搐中翻滚。

Planchet and Fourreau, as pale as death, were trying to give him succor; but it was plain that all assistance was useless—all the features of the dying man were distorted with agony.
普朗谢和福罗脸色苍白得像死人一样，试图救助他。但很明显，所有的帮助都是无用的——垂死者的所有特征都因痛苦而扭曲。

‘Ah!’ cried he, on perceiving d’Artagnan, ‘ah! this is frightful! You pretend to pardon me, and you poison me!’
“啊！”他一看到达达尼昂就喊道，“啊！这太可怕了！你假装原谅我，却毒害了我！”

‘I!’ cried d’Artagnan. ‘I, wretch? What do you say?’
“我！”达达尼昂喊道。 ‘我，可怜虫？你怎么说？'

‘I say that it was you who gave me the wine; I say that it was you who desired me to drink it. I say you wished to avenge yourself on me, and I say that it is horrible!’
‘我说是你给我酒的；我说是你让我喝的。我说你想向我报仇，我说这太可怕了！

‘Do not think so, Brisemont,’ said d’Artagnan; ‘do not think so. I swear to you, I protest—‘
“别这么想，布里斯蒙特，”达达尼昂说。 '不这么认为。我向你发誓，我抗议——”

‘Oh, but God is above! God will punish you! My God, grant that he may one day suffer what I suffer!’
‘哦，但是上帝在上面！老天爷会惩罚你的！我的上帝，愿他有一天能遭受我所遭受的痛苦！

‘Upon the Gospel,’ said d’Artagnan, throwing himself down by the dying man, ‘I swear to you that the wine was poisoned and that I was going to drink of it as you did.’
“根据福音，”达达尼昂说着，倒在了垂死的人身边，“我向你发誓，这酒是有毒的，我会像你一样喝掉它。”

‘I do not believe you,’ cried the soldier, and he expired amid horrible tortures.
“我不相信你，”士兵喊道，他在可怕的折磨中死去。

‘Frightful! frightful!’ murmured Athos, while Porthos broke the bottles and Aramis gave orders, a little too late, that a confessor should be sent for.
'可怕！阿托斯低声说道，波托斯打碎了瓶子，阿拉米斯下令请一位忏悔神父，但为时已晚。

‘Oh, my friends,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘you come once more to save my life, not only mine but that of these gentlemen. Gentlemen,’ continued he, addressing the Guardsmen, ‘I request you will be silent with regard to this adventure. Great personages may have had a hand in what you have seen, and if talked about, the evil would only recoil upon us.’
“哦，我的朋友们，”达达尼昂说，“你们再次来救我的命，不仅是我的命，还有这些先生们的命。先生们，”他对卫兵们继续说道，“我请求你们对这次冒险保持沉默。你们所看到的可能是伟大人物所参与的，如果谈论起来，邪恶只会反弹到我们身上。

‘Ah, monsieur!’ stammered Planchet, more dead than alive, ‘ah, monsieur, what an escape I have had!’
“啊，先生！”普朗歇结结巴巴地说，他已经死了，“啊，先生，我逃过一劫！”

‘How, sirrah! you were going to drink my wine?’
‘怎么样，先生！你要喝我的酒吗？

‘To the health of the king, monsieur; I was going to drink a small glass of it if Fourreau had not told me I was called.’
“为了国王的健康，先生；如果福罗没有告诉我有人叫我的话，我本来打算喝一小杯。

‘Alas!’ said Fourreau, whose teeth chattered with terror, ‘I wanted to get him out of the way that I might drink myself.’
“唉！”福罗说，他的牙齿因恐惧而打颤，“我想把他推开，这样我就可以喝醉了。”

‘Gentlemen,’ said d’Artagnan, addressing the Guardsmen, ‘you may easily comprehend that such a feast can only be very dull after what has taken place; so accept my excuses, and put off the party till another day, I beg of you.’
“先生们，”达达尼昂对卫兵们说道，“你们很容易理解，在发生了这一切之后，这样的盛宴只会变得非常乏味；所以请接受我的借口，把聚会推迟到另一天，我求你了。”

The two Guardsmen courteously accepted d’Artagnan’s excuses, and perceiving that the four friends desired to be alone, retired.
两名近卫军礼貌地接受了达达尼昂的借口，并察觉到这四个朋友想独处，便退了出去。

When the young Guardsman and the three Musketeers were without witnesses, they looked at one another with an air which plainly expressed that each of them perceived the gravity of their situation.
年轻近卫军和三名火枪手在没有目击者的情况下，互相对视一眼，神情显然表明他们都意识到了事态的严重性。

‘In the first place,’ said Athos, ‘let us leave this chamber; the dead are not agreeable company, particularly when they have died a violent death.’
“首先，”阿托斯说，“让我们离开这个房间；死者不是一个令人愉快的伙伴，特别是当他们死于暴力时。

‘Planchet,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘I commit the corpse of this poor devil to your care. Let him be interred in holy ground. He committed a crime, it is true; but he repented of it.’
“普朗谢特，”达达尼昂说道，“我把这个可怜的家伙的尸体交给你照顾。让他安葬在圣地。他犯了罪，这是事实；但他后悔了。

And the four friends quit the room, leaving to Planchet and Fourreau the duty of paying mortuary honors to Brisemont.
四个朋友离开了房间，把给布里斯蒙特举行葬礼的任务留给了普朗谢和福罗。

The host gave them another chamber, and served them with fresh eggs and some water, which Athos went himself to draw at the fountain. In a few words, Porthos and Aramis were posted as to the situation.
主人给了他们另一个房间，并为他们提供了新鲜的鸡蛋和一些水，阿多斯亲自去喷泉旁取水。波托斯和阿拉米斯三言两语就将情况通报了出来。

‘Well,’ said d’Artagnan to Athos, ‘you see, my dear friend, that this is war to the death.’
“好吧，”达达尼昂对阿托斯说，“你瞧，我亲爱的朋友，这是一场生死之战。”

Athos shook his head.
阿托斯摇摇头。

‘Yes, yes,’ replied he, ‘I perceive that plainly; but do you really believe it is she?’
“是的，是的，”他回答道，“我清楚地意识到了这一点；但你真的相信是她吗？

‘I am sure of it.’
'我确定。'

‘Nevertheless, I confess I still doubt.’
“尽管如此，我承认我仍然怀疑。”

‘But the fleur-de-lis on her shoulder?’
“但是她肩上的百合花呢？”

‘She is some Englishwoman who has committed a crime in France, and has been branded in consequence.’
“她是一位在法国犯罪的英国女人，并因此被打上烙印。”

‘Athos, she is your wife, I tell you,’ repeated d’Artagnan; ‘only reflect how much the two descriptions resemble each other.’
“阿多斯，我告诉你，她是你的妻子，”达达尼昂重复道。 “仅反映这两种描述有多相似。”

‘Yes; but I should think the other must be dead, I hanged her so effectually.’
'是的;但我认为对方一定已经死了，我如此有效地绞死了她。

It was d’Artagnan who now shook his head in his turn.
现在轮到达达尼昂摇摇头了。

‘But in either case, what is to be done?’ said the young man.
“但无论哪种情况，该怎么办呢？”年轻人说道。

‘The fact is, one cannot remain thus, with a sword hanging eternally over his head,’ said Athos. ‘We must extricate ourselves from this position.’
“事实是，一个人不能一直这样，头上永远悬着一把剑，”阿托斯说。 “我们必须摆脱这种处境。”

‘But how?’
“但是怎么办呢？”

‘Listen! You must try to see her, and have an explanation with her. Say to her: ‘Peace or war! My word as a gentleman never to say anything of you, never to do anything against you; on your side, a solemn oath to remain neutral with respect to me. If not, I will apply to the chancellor, I will apply to the king, I will apply to the hangman, I will move the courts against you, I will denounce you as branded, I will bring you to trial; and if you are acquitted, well, by the faith of a gentleman, I will kill you at the corner of some wall, as I would a mad dog.’’
'听！你一定要试着去见她，跟她解释一下。对她说：‘要么和平，要么战争！我以绅士身份发誓，永远不会说你的坏话，也不会做任何反对你的事；在你这边，庄严宣誓对我保持中立。如果没有，我会向大臣提出申请，我会向国王提出申请，我会向刽子手提出申请，我会向法庭提出反对你的诉讼，我会谴责你被打上烙印，我会将你送上法庭；如果你被无罪释放，好吧，出于绅士的信念，我会在墙角杀掉你，就像杀一只疯狗一样。”

‘I like the means well enough,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘but where and how to meet with her?’
“我很喜欢这种方法，”达达尼昂说，“但是在哪里以及如何与她见面呢？”

‘Time, dear friend, time brings round opportunity; opportunity is the martingale of man. The more we have ventured the more we gain, when we know how to wait.’
“时间，亲爱的朋友，时间带来机遇；机会是人的鞅。当我们知道如何等待时，我们冒险的越多，我们收获的就越多。

‘Yes; but to wait surrounded by assassins and poisoners.’
'是的;但要在刺客和投毒者的包围下等待。”

‘Bah!’ said Athos. ‘God has preserved us hitherto, God will preserve us still.’
“呸！”阿托斯说。 “迄今为止，上帝保护了我们，上帝仍将保护我们。”

‘Yes, we. Besides, we are men; and everything considered, it is our lot to risk our lives; but she,’ asked he, in an undertone.
'没错，我们。再说，我们是男人；综合考虑，我们必须冒着生命危险；但她，”他低声问道。

‘What she?’ asked Athos.
“她是什么？”阿托斯问道。

‘Constance.’
'康斯坦斯。'

‘Madame Bonacieux! Ah, that’s true!’ said Athos. ‘My poor friend, I had forgotten you were in love.’
“博纳希厄夫人！啊，确实如此！”阿托斯说。 “我可怜的朋友，我忘了你恋爱了。”

‘Well, but,’ said Aramis, ‘have you not learned by the letter you found on the wretched corpse that she is in a convent? One may be very comfortable in a convent; and as soon as the siege of La Rochelle is terminated, I promise you on my part—‘
“好吧，但是，”阿拉米斯说，“难道你没有从那可怜的尸体上发现的信中得知她在修道院里吗？修道院里的人可能会很舒服；一旦拉罗谢尔的围困结束，我向你保证——”

‘Good,’ cried Athos, ‘good! Yes, my dear Aramis, we all know that your views have a religious tendency.’
“好极了，”阿托斯喊道，“好极了！是的，我亲爱的阿拉米斯，我们都知道你的观点有宗教倾向。

‘I am only temporarily a Musketeer,’ said Aramis, humbly.
“我只是暂时的火枪手。”阿拉米斯谦虚地说。

‘It is some time since we heard from his mistress,’ said Athos, in a low voice. ‘But take no notice; we know all about that.’
“我们已经有一段时间没有收到他情妇的消息了，”阿托斯低声说道。 “但是别在意；我们知道这一切。

‘Well,’ said Porthos, ‘it appears to me that the means are very simple.’
“嗯，”波托斯说，“在我看来，手段很简单。”

‘What?’ asked d’Artagnan.
“什么？”达达尼昂问道。

‘You say she is in a convent?’ replied Porthos.
“你说她在修道院里？”波托斯回答道。

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘Very well. As soon as the siege is over, we’ll carry her off from that convent.’
'很好。围困一结束，我们就把她从修道院里带走。”

‘But we must first learn what convent she is in.’
“但我们必须首先了解她在哪个修道院。”

‘That’s true,’ said Porthos.
“确实如此，”波托斯说。

‘But I think I have it,’ said Athos. ‘Don’t you say, dear d’Artagnan, that it is the queen who has made choice of the convent for her?’
“但我想我有它，”阿托斯说。 “亲爱的达达尼昂，你不是说是王后为她选择了修道院吗？”

‘I believe so, at least.’
“至少我相信是这样。”

‘In that case Porthos will assist us.’
“这样的话，波托斯就会协助我们。”

‘And how so, if you please?’
“请问，怎么会这样呢？”

‘Why, by your marchioness, your duchess, your princess. She must have a long arm.’
“哎呀，以您的侯爵夫人、您的公爵夫人、您的公主的名义。她的手臂一定很长。

‘Hush!’ said Porthos, placing a finger on his lips. ‘I believe her to be a cardinalist; she must know nothing of the matter.’
“嘘！”波托斯将一根手指放在嘴唇上说道。 “我相信她是一名红衣主教；她肯定对这件事一无所知。

‘Then,’ said Aramis, ‘I take upon myself to obtain intelligence of her.’
“那么，”阿拉米斯说道，“我就亲自去了解她的情报。”

‘You, Aramis?’ cried the three friends. ‘You! And how?’
“你，阿拉米斯？”三个朋友喊道。 '你！如何？'

‘By the queen’s almoner, to whom I am very intimately allied,’ said Aramis, coloring.
“我是女王的施舍者，我与他关系密切。”阿拉米斯脸红着说道。

And on this assurance, the four friends, who had finished their modest repast, separated, with the promise of meeting again that evening. D’Artagnan returned to less important affairs, and the three Musketeers repaired to the king’s quarters, where they had to prepare their lodging.
得到这个保证后，四位朋友吃完简餐后就分开了，并承诺当晚再见面。达达尼昂回到了不太重要的事务上，三个火枪手回到了国王的住处，在那里准备住宿。

43 THE SIGN OF THE RED DOVECOT
43 红鸽子的标志

Meanwhile the king, who, with more reason than the cardinal, showed his hatred for Buckingham, although scarcely arrived was in such a haste to meet the enemy that he commanded every disposition to be made to drive the English from the Isle of Re, and afterward to press the siege of La Rochelle; but notwithstanding his earnest wish, he was delayed by the dissensions which broke out between MM. Bassompierre and Schomberg, against the Duc d’Angouleme.
与此同时，国王比红衣主教更有理由地表达了对白金汉的仇恨，尽管他刚刚抵达，却急于迎战敌人，以至于他下令采取一切措施将英国人赶出雷岛。随后围攻拉罗谢尔；尽管他很热心，但由于MM之间爆发的争执而耽搁了他的时间。巴松皮埃尔和舍姆贝格对阵安古莱姆公爵。

MM. Bassompierre and Schomberg were marshals of France, and claimed their right of commanding the army under the orders of the king; but the cardinal, who feared that Bassompierre, a Huguenot at heart, might press but feebly the English and Rochellais, his brothers in religion, supported the Duc d’Angouleme, whom the king, at his instigation, had named lieutenant general. The result was that to prevent MM. Bassompierre and Schomberg from deserting the army, a separate command had to be given to each. Bassompierre took up his quarters on the north of the city, between Leu and Dompierre; the Duc d’Angouleme on the east, from Dompierre to Perigny; and M. de Schomberg on the south, from Perigny to Angoutin.
毫米。巴松皮埃尔和舍姆贝格是法国元帅，并声称自己有权听从国王的命令指挥军队。但红衣主教担心本质上是胡格诺派的巴松皮埃尔可能会对英国人和他的宗教兄弟罗谢莱施加微弱的压力，因此支持了昂古莱姆公爵，国王在他的怂恿下任命他为中将。结果就是阻止MM。为了防止巴松皮埃尔和舍姆贝格逃兵，必须给他们各自下达单独的命令。巴松皮埃尔（Bassompierre）在城市北部的勒伊（Leu）和东皮埃尔（Dompierre）之间定居。东边是昂古莱姆公爵 (Duc d’Angouleme)，从东皮埃尔 (Dompierre) 到佩里尼 (Perigny)；南部有M. de Schomberg，从佩里尼到安古坦。

The quarters of Monsieur were at Dompierre; the quarters of the king were sometimes at Estree, sometimes at Jarrie; the cardinal’s quarters were upon the downs, at the bridge of La Pierre, in a simple house without any entrenchment. So that Monsieur watched Bassompierre; the king, the Duc d’Angouleme; and the cardinal, M. de Schomberg.
先生的住所位于多姆皮埃尔。国王的住所有时在埃斯特里，有时在贾里。红衣主教的住所位于丘陵上的拉皮埃尔桥上，一座没有任何防御工事的简陋房屋里。所以先生看着巴松皮埃尔；国王昂古莱姆公爵；还有红衣主教德朔姆伯格先生。

As soon as this organization was established, they set about driving the English from the Isle.
这个组织一成立，他们就开始将英国人赶出岛上。

The juncture was favorable. The English, who require, above everything, good living in order to be good soldiers, only eating salt meat and bad biscuit, had many invalids in their camp. Still further, the sea, very rough at this period of the year all along the sea coast, destroyed every day some little vessel; and the shore, from the point of l’Aiguillon to the trenches, was at every tide literally covered with the wrecks of pinnacles, roberges, and feluccas. The result was that even if the king’s troops remained quietly in their camp, it was evident that some day or other, Buckingham, who only continued in the Isle from obstinacy, would be obliged to raise the siege.
时机是有利的。英国人首先要求的是良好的生活才能成为好士兵，只吃咸肉和劣质饼干，他们的营地里有许多病人。此外，一年中的这个时候，沿海地区的海浪非常汹涌，每天都会毁坏一些小船。从艾吉永角到战壕的海岸，每次潮汐时都布满了尖塔、长袍和三桅帆船的残骸。结果是，即使国王的军队静静地留在营地里，很明显，总有一天，因为固执而继续留在岛上的白金汉将不得不解除围困。

But as M. de Toiras gave information that everything was preparing in the enemy’s camp for a fresh assault, the king judged that it would be best to put an end to the affair, and gave the necessary orders for a decisive action.
但当德·图拉斯先生通报说，敌军营地中的一切都在为新的进攻做准备时，国王认为最好结束这件事，并下达了采取果断行动的必要命令。

As it is not our intention to give a journal of the siege, but on the contrary only to describe such of the events of it as are connected with the story we are relating, we will content ourselves with saying in two words that the expedition succeeded, to the great astonishment of the king and the great glory of the cardinal. The English, repulsed foot by foot, beaten in all encounters, and defeated in the passage of the Isle of Loie, were obliged to re-embark, leaving on the field of battle two thousand men, among whom were five colonels, three lieutenant colonels, two hundred and fifty captains, twenty gentlemen of rank, four pieces of cannon, and sixty flags, which were taken to Paris by Claude de St. Simon, and suspended with great pomp in the arches of Notre Dame.
由于我们无意写一篇围城日记，相反只是为了描述与我们正在讲述的故事有关的围城事件，所以我们只用两个词说这次远征成功了。 ，令国王无比惊讶，令红衣主教无比荣耀。英国人被逐一击退，在所有遭遇战中都被击败，并在通过洛伊岛时被击败，被迫重新登船，在战场上留下了两千名士兵，其中有五名上校，三名中校、两百五十名上尉、二十名军衔绅士、四门大炮和六十面旗帜，这些都被克洛德·德·圣西蒙带到了巴黎，并以盛大的场面悬挂在巴黎圣母院的拱门上。

Te Deums were chanted in camp, and afterward throughout France.
人们在军营里高喊感恩颂，随后在法国各地高喊。

The cardinal was left free to carry on the siege, without having, at least at the present, anything to fear on the part of the English.
红衣主教可以自由地进行围攻，至少目前不用担心英国人。

But it must be acknowledged, this response was but momentary. An envoy of the Duke of Buckingham, named Montague, was taken, and proof was obtained of a league between the German Empire, Spain, England, and Lorraine. This league was directed against France.
但必须承认，这种反应只是短暂的。白金汉公爵的一位名叫蒙塔古的特使被抓获，并获得了德意志帝国、西班牙、英格兰和洛林之间结盟的证据。这个联赛是针对法国的。

Still further, in Buckingham’s lodging, which he had been forced to abandon more precipitately than he expected, papers were found which confirmed this alliance and which, as the cardinal asserts in his memoirs, strongly compromised Mme. de Chevreuse and consequently the queen.
此外，在白金汉的住所中，他被迫比他预期的更仓促地放弃了那里，发现了一些文件，这些文件证实了这种联盟，正如红衣主教在他的回忆录中所断言的那样，这些文件强烈损害了夫人的利益。 de Chevreuse，因此成为女王。

It was upon the cardinal that all the responsibility fell, for one is not a despotic minister without responsibility. All, therefore, of the vast resources of his genius were at work night and day, engaged in listening to the least report heard in any of the great kingdoms of Europe.
所有的责任都落在了红衣主教身上，因为一个人不是一个没有责任的专制大臣。因此，他的天才的全部资源都在夜以继日地工作，致力于倾听欧洲任何一个伟大王国中听到的最少的报告。

The cardinal was acquainted with the activity, and more particularly the hatred, of Buckingham. If the league which threatened France triumphed, all his influence would be lost. Spanish policy and Austrian policy would have their representatives in the cabinet of the Louvre, where they had as yet but partisans; and he, Richelieu—the French minister, the national minister—would be ruined. The king, even while obeying him like a child, hated him as a child hates his master, and would abandon him to the personal vengeance of Monsieur and the queen. He would then be lost, and France, perhaps, with him. All this must be prepared against.
红衣主教熟悉白金汉的活动，尤其是仇恨。如果威胁法国的联赛获胜，他的影响力就会消失。西班牙政策和奥地利政策将在卢浮宫内阁中有代表，但他们在那里还只有党派。而他，黎塞留——法国部长，国家部长——就会破产。国王虽然像个孩子一样服从他，却像孩子恨他的主人一样恨他，并会抛弃他，让先生和王后亲自报仇。那时他就会迷失，也许法国也会跟着他一起迷失。这一切都必须做好准备。

Courtiers, becoming every instant more numerous, succeeded one another, day and night, in the little house of the bridge of La Pierre, in which the cardinal had established his residence.
朝臣们的数量每时每刻都在增加，日夜不停地在拉皮埃尔桥的小房子里接替，红衣主教就在里面安顿了自己的住所。

There were monks who wore the frock with such an ill grace that it was easy to perceive they belonged to the church militant; women a little inconvenienced by their costume as pages and whose large trousers could not entirely conceal their rounded forms; and peasants with blackened hands but with fine limbs, savoring of the man of quality a league off.
有些僧侣穿着这件长袍，样子很不雅观，很容易让人认为他们属于激进的教会。女侍者的服装有点不便，她们的大裤衩无法完全掩盖她们圆润的身材。还有双手发黑但四肢纤细的农民，他们的品格远在里外。

There were also less agreeable visits—for two or three times reports were spread that the cardinal had nearly been assassinated.
也有不太令人愉快的访问——有两三次报道称红衣主教差点被暗杀。

It is true that the enemies of the cardinal said that it was he himself who set these bungling assassins to work, in order to have, if wanted, the right of using reprisals; but we must not believe everything ministers say, nor everything their enemies say.
确实，红衣主教的敌人说，是他本人让这些笨手笨脚的刺客工作的，以便在需要时有权进行报复；但我们不能相信牧师所说的一切，也不能相信他们的敌人所说的一切。

These attempts did not prevent the cardinal, to whom his most inveterate detractors have never denied personal bravery, from making nocturnal excursions, sometimes to communicate to the Duc d’Angouleme important orders, sometimes to confer with the king, and sometimes to have an interview with a messenger whom he did not wish to see at home.
这些尝试并没有阻止红衣主教进行夜间旅行，有时是向昂古莱姆公爵传达重要命令，有时是与国王商议，有时是进行面谈，而他最顽固的诽谤者从未否认红衣主教的个人勇敢。和一个他不想在家里见到的使者。

On their part the Musketeers, who had not much to do with the siege, were not under very strict orders and led a joyous life. The was the more easy for our three companions in particular; for being friends of M. de Treville, they obtained from him special permission to be absent after the closing of the camp.
就火枪手而言，他们与围攻没有多大关系，也没有受到非常严格的命令，过着快乐的生活。尤其是对于我们的三个同伴来说，这更容易。由于是德特雷维尔先生的朋友，他们得到了他的特别许可，可以在营地关闭后缺席。

Now, one evening when d’Artagnan, who was in the trenches, was not able to accompany them, Athos, Porthos, and Aramis, mounted on their battle steeds, enveloped in their war cloaks, with their hands upon their pistol butts, were returning from a drinking place called the Red Dovecot, which Athos had discovered two days before upon the route to Jarrie, following the road which led to the camp and quite on their guard, as we have stated, for fear of an ambuscade, when, about a quarter of a league from the village of Boisnau, they fancied they heard the sound of horses approaching them. They immediately all three halted, closed in, and waited, occupying the middle of the road. In an instant, and as the moon broke from behind a cloud, they saw at a turning of the road two horsemen who, on perceiving them, stopped in their turn, appearing to deliberate whether they should continue their route or go back. The hesitation created some suspicion in the three friends, and Athos, advancing a few paces in front of the others, cried in a firm voice, ‘Who goes there?’
现在，一天晚上，达达尼昂在战壕里，无法陪伴他们，阿托斯、波尔托斯和阿拉米斯骑上战马，裹着斗篷，双手放在手枪枪托上，从一个叫“红鸽子”的饮酒场所回来，阿多斯两天前在前往雅里的路上发现了这个地方，沿着通往营地的道路，他们非常警惕，正如我们所说的，因为担心遭到伏击，当，距离布瓦瑙村大约四分之一里格的地方，他们感觉听到了马匹的声音向他们靠近。他们三人立即停下来，围拢过来，占据路中央等待。刹那间，月亮从云层后面露出来，他们在路的拐弯处看到了两个骑兵，他们见了他们，也停了下来，似乎在考虑是继续赶路还是回去。这种犹豫让三个朋友产生了一些怀疑，阿托斯在其他人前面走了几步，用坚定的声音喊道：“谁去那里？”

‘Who goes there, yourselves?’ replied one of the horsemen.
“你们自己谁去那里？”一名骑兵回答道。

‘That is not an answer,’ replied Athos. ‘Who goes there? Answer, or we charge.’
“这不是答案，”阿托斯回答道。 ‘谁去那里？回答，否则我们收费。

‘Beware of what you are about, gentlemen!’ said a clear voice which seemed accustomed to command.
“当心你们的行为，先生们！”一个清晰的声音说道，似乎已经习惯了命令。

‘It is some superior officer making his night rounds,’ said Athos. ‘What do you wish, gentlemen?’
“这是一位上级军官在夜间巡查，”阿托斯说。 “先生们，你们想要什么？”

‘Who are you?’ said the same voice, in the same commanding tone. ‘Answer in your turn, or you may repent of your disobedience.’
“你是谁？”同样的声音，同样的命令语气说道。 “轮到你回答了，否则你可能会为你的不服从而后悔。”

‘King’s Musketeers,’ said Athos, more and more convinced that he who interrogated them had the right to do so.
“国王的火枪手。”阿多斯说道，他越来越相信审问他们的人有权这样做。

‘What company?’
'什么公司？'

‘Company of Treville.’
“特雷维尔公司。”

‘Advance, and give an account of what you are doing here at this hour.’
“先介绍一下你现在在这里做什么。”

The three companions advanced rather humbly—for all were now convinced that they had to do with someone more powerful than themselves—leaving Athos the post of speaker.
三位同伴相当谦虚地上前——因为现在所有人都确信他们与比自己更强大的人打交道——让阿多斯担任发言人。

One of the two riders, he who had spoken second, was ten paces in front of his companion. Athos made a sign to Porthos and Aramis also to remain in the rear, and advanced alone.
两名骑手中的一位，即第二个发言者，距离他的同伴十步远。阿托斯向波托斯和阿拉米斯做了个手势，让他们留在后方，然后独自前进。

‘Your pardon, my officer,’ said Athos; ‘but we were ignorant with whom we had to do, and you may see that we were good guard.’
“请原谅，我的军官，”阿托斯说道。 “但我们不知道我们要和谁打交道，你可能会看到我们是很好的警卫。”

‘Your name?’ said the officer, who covered a part of his face with his cloak.
“你的名字？”军官用斗篷遮住了部分脸。

‘But yourself, monsieur,’ said Athos, who began to be annoyed by this inquisition, ‘give me, I beg you, the proof that you have the right to question me.’
“但是你自己，先生，”阿多斯说，他开始对这种审讯感到恼火，“我请求你，给我证据，证明你有权审问我。”

‘Your name?’ repeated the cavalier a second time, letting his cloak fall, and leaving his face uncovered.
“你的名字？”骑士第二次重复了一遍，让他的斗篷落了下来，露出了他的脸。

‘Monsieur the Cardinal!’ cried the stupefied Musketeer.
“红衣主教先生！”目瞪口呆的火枪手喊道。

‘Your name?’ cried his Eminence, for the third time.
“您的名字？”主教大人第三次喊道。

‘Athos,’ said the Musketeer.
“阿托斯，”火枪手说道。

The cardinal made a sign to his attendant, who drew near. ‘These three Musketeers shall follow us,’ said he, in an undertone. ‘I am not willing it should be known I have left the camp; and if they follow us we shall be certain they will tell nobody.’
红衣主教向走近的侍从做了个手势。 “这三个火枪手将跟随我们，”他低声说道。 “我不愿意让别人知道我已经离开了营地；如果他们跟踪我们，我们确信他们不会告诉任何人。

‘We are gentlemen, monseigneur,’ said Athos; ‘require our parole, and give yourself no uneasiness. Thank God, we can keep a secret.’
“我们是先生们，大人，”阿托斯说道。 ‘要求我们假释，别让自己感到不安。感谢上帝，我们可以保守秘密。”

The cardinal fixed his piercing eyes on this courageous speaker.
红衣主教用锐利的目光注视着这位勇敢的演讲者。

‘You have a quick ear, Monsieur Athos,’ said the cardinal; ‘but now listen to this. It is not from mistrust that I request you to follow me, but for my security. Your companions are no doubt Messieurs Porthos and Aramis.’
“阿托斯先生，你的耳朵很灵敏，”红衣主教说。 ‘但现在听听这个。我并不是因为不信任才要求你跟随我，而是为了我的安全。你的同伴无疑是波托斯先生和阿拉米斯先生。

‘Yes, your Eminence,’ said Athos, while the two Musketeers who had remained behind advanced hat in hand.
“是的，陛下，”阿托斯说道，而留在后面的两个火枪手则手里拿着帽子。

‘I know you, gentlemen,’ said the cardinal, ‘I know you. I know you are not quite my friends, and I am sorry you are not so; but I know you are brave and loyal gentlemen, and that confidence may be placed in you. Monsieur Athos, do me, then, the honor to accompany me; you and your two friends, and then I shall have an escort to excite envy in his Majesty, if we should meet him.’
“我了解你们，先生们，”红衣主教说，“我了解你们。”我知道你们不完全是我的朋友，很抱歉你们不是我的朋友；但我知道你们是勇敢而忠诚的绅士，我们可以对你们充满信心。阿托斯先生，请您荣幸地陪伴我；你和你的两个朋友，如果我们见到他的话，我将有一个护卫队，让国王陛下羡慕不已。

The three Musketeers bowed to the necks of their horses.
三个火枪手向马颈鞠躬。

‘Well, upon my honor,’ said Athos, ‘your Eminence is right in taking us with you; we have seen several ill-looking faces on the road, and we have even had a quarrel at the Red Dovecot with four of those faces.’
“好吧，以我的名誉担保，”阿多斯说道，“陛下带我们一起去是正确的；我们在路上看到了几张难看的面孔，我们甚至在红鸽舍与其中四张面孔发生了争吵。

‘A quarrel, and what for, gentlemen?’ said the cardinal; ‘you know I don’t like quarrelers.’
“一场争吵，为了什么，先生们？”红衣主教说道。 “你知道我不喜欢争吵的人。”

‘And that is the reason why I have the honor to inform your Eminence of what has happened; for you might learn it from others, and upon a false account believe us to be in fault.’
“这就是为什么我有幸向陛下通报所发生的事情；因为你可能会从别人那里了解到这一点，并根据错误的说法相信我们有错。

‘What have been the results of your quarrel?’ said the cardinal, knitting his brow.
“你们争吵的结果是什么？”红衣主教皱着眉头说道。

‘My friend, Aramis, here, has received a slight sword wound in the arm, but not enough to prevent him, as your Eminence may see, from mounting to the assault tomorrow, if your Eminence orders an escalade.’
“我的朋友，阿拉米斯，在这里，手臂上受了轻微的剑伤，但正如阁下所见，如果阁下下令升级，这不足以阻止他明天发起攻击。”

‘But you are not the men to allow sword wounds to be inflicted upon you thus,’ said the cardinal. ‘Come, be frank, gentlemen, you have settled accounts with somebody! Confess; you know I have the right of giving absolution.’
“但是你们不是允许这样被刀伤的人，”红衣主教说道。 ‘来吧，老实说，先生们，你们已经和某人算账了！承认;你知道我有权赦免。”

‘I, monseigneur?’ said Athos. ‘I did not even draw my sword, but I took him who offended me round the body, and threw him out of the window. It appears that in falling,’ continued Athos, with some hesitation, ‘he broke his thigh.’
“我，大人？”阿托斯说道。 “我什至没有拔出剑，而是抓住了那个冒犯我的人，把他扔出了窗外。看起来，在跌倒的过程中，”阿托斯犹豫了一下，继续说道，“他摔断了大腿。”

‘Ah, ah!’ said the cardinal; ‘and you, Monsieur Porthos?’
“啊，啊！”红衣主教说道。 “波托斯先生，你呢？”

‘I, monseigneur, knowing that dueling is prohibited—I seized a bench, and gave one of those brigands such a blow that I believe his shoulder is broken.’
“我，大人，知道决斗是被禁止的——我抓起一张长凳，对其中一个强盗进行了重击，我相信他的肩膀被打断了。”

‘Very well,’ said the cardinal; ‘and you, Monsieur Aramis?’
“很好，”红衣主教说。 “阿拉米斯先生，你呢？”

‘Monseigneur, being of a very mild disposition, and being, likewise, of which Monseigneur perhaps is not aware, about to enter into orders, I endeavored to appease my comrades, when one of these wretches gave me a wound with a sword, treacherously, across my left arm. Then I admit my patience failed me; I drew my sword in my turn, and as he came back to the charge, I fancied I felt that in throwing himself upon me, he let it pass through his body. I only know for a certainty that he fell; and it seemed to me that he was borne away with his two companions.’
“大人，性情非常温和，同样，大人也许也没有意识到，当我正要下达命令时，我试图安抚我的战友，这时其中一个坏人用剑奸诈地给了我一个伤口。 ，穿过我的左臂。然后我承认我失去了耐心；轮到我拔出剑，当他回来冲锋时，我觉得我感觉到他向我扑来，让剑穿过了他的身体。我只知道他摔倒了；在我看来，他是和他的两个同伴一起被带走的。

‘The devil, gentlemen!’ said the cardinal, ‘three men placed hors de combat in a cabaret squabble! You don’t do your work by halves. And pray what was this quarrel about?’
“见鬼，先生们！”红衣主教说道，“三个人在一场歌舞表演争吵中失去了战斗力！你的工作不会半途而废。请问这次争吵是因为什么？

‘These fellows were drunk,’ said Athos, ‘and knowing there was a lady who had arrived at the cabaret this evening, they wanted to force her door.’
“这些家伙喝醉了，”阿托斯说，“他们知道今晚有一位女士来到了歌舞厅，所以想强行闯入她的门。”

‘Force her door!’ said the cardinal, ‘and for what purpose?’
“强行打开她的门！”红衣主教说道，“目的是什么？”

‘To do her violence, without doubt,’ said Athos. ‘I have had the honor of informing your Eminence that these men were drunk.’
“毫无疑问，是为了对她实施暴力，”阿托斯说。 “我荣幸地通知阁下，这些人喝醉了。”

‘And was this lady young and handsome?’ asked the cardinal, with a certain degree of anxiety.
“这位女士年轻又英俊吗？”红衣主教有些焦虑地问道。

‘We did not see her, monseigneur,’ said Athos.
“我们没有看到她，大人，”阿托斯说。

‘You did not see her? Ah, very well,’ replied the cardinal, quickly. ‘You did well to defend the honor of a woman; and as I am going to the Red Dovecot myself, I shall know if you have told me the truth.’
‘你没看到她吗？啊，很好，”红衣主教很快回答道。 “你捍卫了一个女人的荣誉，做得很好；当我亲自去红鸽舍时，我会知道你是否告诉了我真相。

‘Monseigneur,’ said Athos, haughtily, ‘we are gentlemen, and to save our heads we would not be guilty of a falsehood.’
“大人，”阿多斯傲慢地说，“我们是绅士，为了保住我们的脑袋，我们不会撒谎。”

‘Therefore I do not doubt what you say, Monsieur Athos, I do not doubt it for a single instant; but,’ added he, ‘to change the conversation, was this lady alone?’
“因此，我不怀疑你所说的，阿多斯先生，我一刻也不怀疑；但是，”他补充道，“为了改变话题，这位女士是独自一人吗？”

‘The lady had a cavalier shut up with her,’ said Athos, ‘but as notwithstanding the noise, this cavalier did not show himself, it is to be presumed that he is a coward.’
“那位女士把一名骑士关在她身边，”阿托斯说道，“但尽管有喧闹声，这名骑士却没有现身，可以推测他是个胆小鬼。”

‘‘Judge not rashly’, says the Gospel,’ replied the cardinal.
红衣主教回答说：“《福音书》说，不要轻率地做出判断。”

Athos bowed.
阿托斯鞠躬。

‘And now, gentlemen, that’s well,’ continued the cardinal. ‘I know what I wish to know; follow me.’
“现在，先生们，很好，”红衣主教继续说道。 ‘我知道我想知道什么；跟我来。'

The three Musketeers passed behind his Eminence, who again enveloped his face in his cloak, and put his horse in motion, keeping from eight to ten paces in advance of his four companions.
三个火枪手从大人身后经过，大人再次用斗篷遮住脸，催动马匹，比他的四个同伴保持八到十步的距离。

They soon arrived at the silent, solitary inn. No doubt the host knew what illustrious visitor was expected, and had consequently sent intruders out of the way.
很快，他们就来到了那座寂静孤寂的客栈。毫无疑问，主人知道会迎来什么杰出的访客，因此把入侵者赶走了。

Ten paces from the door the cardinal made a sign to his esquire and the three Musketeers to halt. A saddled horse was fastened to the window shutter. The cardinal knocked three times, and in a peculiar manner.
距离门十步远的地方，红衣主教示意他的侍从和三个火枪手停下来。一匹鞍马拴在百叶窗上。红衣主教敲了三下门，而且方式很奇特。

A man, enveloped in a cloak, came out immediately, and exchanged some rapid words with the cardinal; after which he mounted his horse, and set off in the direction of Surgeres, which was likewise the way to Paris.
一个裹着斗篷的男人立刻走了出来，和红衣主教简短地交谈了几句。然后他骑上马，向苏热雷斯方向出发，这也是去巴黎的路。

‘Advance, gentlemen,’ said the cardinal.
“请进，先生们，”红衣主教说道。

‘You have told me the truth, my gentlemen,’ said he, addressing the Musketeers, ‘and it will not be my fault if our encounter this evening be not advantageous to you. In the meantime, follow me.’
“先生们，你们告诉了我真相，”他对火枪手们说道，“如果我们今晚的遭遇对你们不利，那也不是我的错。与此同时，跟着我。

The cardinal alighted; the three Musketeers did likewise. The cardinal threw the bridle of his horse to his esquire; the three Musketeers fastened the horses to the shutters.
红衣主教下了车。三个火枪手也这样做了。红衣主教将马缰绳扔给他的侍从。三个火枪手把马拴在百叶窗上。

The host stood at the door. For him, the cardinal was only an officer coming to visit a lady.
主人站在门口。对他来说，红衣主教只是一个来拜访女士的官员。

‘Have you any chamber on the ground floor where these gentlemen can wait near a good fire?’ said the cardinal.
“你们底楼有房间可以让这些先生们在篝火旁等待吗？”红衣主教说道。

The host opened the door of a large room, in which an old stove had just been replaced by a large and excellent chimney.
主人打开了一间大房间的门，房间里刚刚更换了一个旧炉灶，换成了又大又好的烟囱。

‘I have this,’ said he.
“我有这个，”他说。

‘That will do,’ replied the cardinal. ‘Enter, gentlemen, and be kind enough to wait for me; I shall not be more than half an hour.’
“那就行了，”红衣主教回答道。 “请进来，先生们，请耐心等待我；我不会超过半小时。

And while the three Musketeers entered the ground floor room, the cardinal, without asking further information, ascended the staircase like a man who has no need of having his road pointed out to him.
当三个火枪手进入一楼的房间时，红衣主教没有询问更多信息，就像一个不需要别人为他指路的人一样登上了楼梯。

44 THE UTILITY OF STOVEPIPES
44 炉灶的用途

It was evident that without suspecting it, and actuated solely by their chivalrous and adventurous character, our three friends had just rendered a service to someone the cardinal honored with his special protection.
显然，我们的三个朋友毫无疑问地为红衣主教特别保护的人提供了服务，这完全是出于他们的侠义和冒险精神。

Now, who was that someone? That was the question the three Musketeers put to one another. Then, seeing that none of their replies could throw any light on the subject, Porthos called the host and asked for dice.
现在，那个人是谁？这是三个火枪手互相问的问题。然后，看到他们的回答都无法阐明这个问题，波托斯打电话给主持人并索要骰子。

Porthos and Aramis placed themselves at the table and began to play. Athos walked about in a contemplative mood.
波尔托斯和阿拉米斯坐在桌子旁开始演奏。阿托斯带着沉思的心情走来走去。

While thinking and walking, Athos passed and repassed before the pipe of the stove, broken in halves, the other extremity passing into the chamber above; and every time he passed and repassed he heard a murmur of words, which at length fixed his attention. Athos went close to it, and distinguished some words that appeared to merit so great an interest that he made a sign to his friends to be silent, remaining himself bent with his ear directed to the opening of the lower orifice.
阿多斯边走边思考，在断成两半的火炉管道前来回走动，另一端伸进了上面的房间。每次他经过又经过时，他都会听到一阵低语声，这最终引起了他的注意。阿多斯走近它，辨认出一些似乎值得引起极大兴趣的词语，于是他向朋友们示意保持沉默，同时保持着弯腰，耳朵对着下面的孔口。

‘Listen, Milady,’ said the cardinal, ‘the affair is important. Sit down, and let us talk it over.’
“听着，米拉迪，”红衣主教说，“这件事很重要。坐下来，让我们好好谈谈。”

‘Milady!’ murmured Athos.
“夫人！”阿托斯低声说道。

‘I listen to your Eminence with greatest attention,’ replied a female voice which made the Musketeer start.
“我全神贯注地听大人讲话，”一个女声回答道，这让火枪手吃了一惊。

‘A small vessel with an English crew, whose captain is on my side, awaits you at the mouth of Charente, at fort of the Point. He will set sail tomorrow morning.’
“一艘载有英国船员的小船，船长就在我这边，在夏朗德河口的角堡等待着您。他明天早上就要起航了。”

‘I must go thither tonight?’
“我今晚必须去那儿吗？”

‘Instantly! That is to say, when you have received my instructions. Two men, whom you will find at the door on going out, will serve you as escort. You will allow me to leave first; then, after half an hour, you can go away in your turn.’
'即刻！也就是说，当你收到我的指示时。出门时，您会在门口找到两个人，他们会为您提供护送服务。你允许我先离开；然后，半小时后，轮到你离开了。”

‘Yes, monseigneur. Now let us return to the mission with which you wish to charge me; and as I desire to continue to merit the confidence of your Eminence, deign to unfold it to me in terms clear and precise, that I may not commit an error.’
“是的，大人。现在让我们回到您赋予我的使命；由于我希望继续赢得阁下的信任，请您以清晰准确的方式向我阐述它，以免我犯错误。

There was an instant of profound silence between the two interlocutors. It was evident that the cardinal was weighing beforehand the terms in which he was about to speak, and that Milady was collecting all her intellectual faculties to comprehend the things he was about to say, and to engrave them in her memory when they should be spoken.
两个对话者之间瞬间陷入了深深的沉默。显然，红衣主教事先就在权衡他要讲话的措辞，而米莱迪正在集中她所有的智力来理解他要说的事情，并在应该说出来的时候将它们铭刻在她的记忆中。 。

Athos took advantage of this moment to tell his two companions to fasten the door inside, and to make them a sign to come and listen with him.
阿托斯趁此机会吩咐两个同伴把门关好，示意他们过来和他一起听。

The two Musketeers, who loved their ease, brought a chair for each of themselves and one for Athos. All three then sat down with their heads together and their ears on the alert.
两个喜欢轻松自在的火枪手给自己拿了一把椅子，也给阿托斯拿了一把。然后三人都坐下来，头靠在一起，耳朵竖起警觉。

‘You will go to London,’ continued the cardinal. ‘Arrived in London, you will seek Buckingham.’
“你会去伦敦，”红衣主教继续说道。 “到达伦敦后，你将前往白金汉宫。”

‘I must beg your Eminence to observe,’ said Milady, ‘that since the affair of the diamond studs, about which the duke always suspected me, his Grace distrusts me.’
“我必须恳请阁下注意，”米拉迪说，“自从公爵一直怀疑我的钻石耳钉事件以来，陛下就不信任我了。”

‘Well, this time,’ said the cardinal, ‘it is not necessary to steal his confidence, but to present yourself frankly and loyally as a negotiator.’
“好吧，这一次，”红衣主教说，“没有必要窃取他的信任，而是要坦率而忠诚地表现出自己作为谈判者的态度。”

‘Frankly and loyally,’ repeated Milady, with an unspeakable expression of duplicity.
“坦率而忠诚地，”米莱迪重复道，脸上带着难以言表的口是心非。

‘Yes, frankly and loyally,’ replied the cardinal, in the same tone. ‘All this negotiation must be carried on openly.’
“是的，坦率而忠诚地，”红衣主教以同样的语气回答道。 “所有这些谈判都必须公开进行。”

‘I will follow your Eminence’s instructions to the letter. I only wait till you give them.’
“我将严格遵循阁下的指示。我只等你给他们。

‘You will go to Buckingham in my behalf, and you will tell him I am acquainted with all the preparations he has made; but that they give me no uneasiness, since at the first step he takes I will ruin the queen.’
“你会代表我去白金汉，你会告诉他我熟悉他所做的一切准备；但他们不会让我感到不安，因为他迈出的第一步我就会毁掉女王。”

‘Will he believe that your Eminence is in a position to accomplish the threat thus made?’
“他会相信陛下有能力完成这样的威胁吗？”

‘Yes; for I have the proofs.’
'是的;因为我有证据。”

‘I must be able to present these proofs for his appreciation.’
“我必须能够提供这些证据以供他欣赏。”

‘Without doubt. And you will tell him I will publish the report of Bois-Robert and the Marquis de Beautru, upon the interview which the duke had at the residence of Madame the Constable with the queen on the evening Madame the Constable gave a masquerade. You will tell him, in order that he may not doubt, that he came there in the costume of the Great Mogul, which the Chevalier de Guise was to have worn, and that he purchased this exchange for the sum of three thousand pistoles.’
'毫无疑问。你要告诉他，我将发表布瓦-罗伯特和博特鲁侯爵的报告，内容是公爵在警察夫人举行化装舞会的那天晚上在警察夫人的住所与王后进行的采访。你要告诉他，以免他怀疑，他是穿着大莫卧儿的服装来的，吉斯骑士应该穿这身衣服，他用三千皮斯托尔购买了这笔交换。

‘Well, monseigneur?’
“怎么样，大人？”

‘All the details of his coming into and going out of the palace—on the night when he introduced himself in the character of an Italian fortune teller—you will tell him, that he may not doubt the correctness of my information; that he had under his cloak a large white robe dotted with black tears, death’s heads, and crossbones—for in case of a surprise, he was to pass for the phantom of the White Lady who, as all the world knows, appears at the Louvre every time any great event is impending.’
“他进出宫殿的所有细节——在他以意大利算命师的身份自我介绍的那个晚上——你要告诉他，让他不要怀疑我的信息的正确性；他的斗篷下穿着一件宽大的白色长袍，上面点缀着黑色的泪水、死亡的头像和交叉骨——因为万一发生意外，他会被误认为是白色女士的幽灵，众所周知，白色女士出现在广场上。每当有重大事件即将发生时，卢浮宫就会出现。”

‘Is that all, monseigneur?’
“就这样了吗，大人？”

‘Tell him also that I am acquainted with all the details of the adventure at Amiens; that I will have a little romance made of it, wittily turned, with a plan of the garden and portraits of the principal actors in that nocturnal romance.’
“还告诉他，我熟悉亚眠冒险的所有细节； “我会用它来巧妙地演绎一段浪漫故事，其中包括花园的平面图和夜间浪漫故事中主要演员的肖像。”

‘I will tell him that.’
“我会告诉他的。”

‘Tell him further that I hold Montague in my power; that Montague is in the Bastille; that no letters were found upon him, it is true, but that torture may make him tell much of what he knows, and even what he does not know.’
“进一步告诉他，我掌控着蒙塔古；蒙塔古在巴士底狱；确实，他身上没有发现任何信件，但这种折磨可能会让他说出很多他知道的事情，甚至他不知道的事情。

‘Exactly.’
'确切地。'

‘Then add that his Grace has, in the precipitation with which he quit the Isle of Re, forgotten and left behind him in his lodging a certain letter from Madame de Chevreuse which singularly compromises the queen, inasmuch as it proves not only that her Majesty can love the enemies of the king but that she can conspire with the enemies of France. You recollect perfectly all I have told you, do you not?’
然后补充说，陛下在离开雷岛的过程中，忘记了一封谢夫勒斯夫人写的信，这封信特别损害了王后的利益，因为这不仅证明了女王陛下她可以爱国王的敌人，但她可以与法国的敌人密谋。我告诉你的一切你都记得清清楚楚，不是吗？

‘Your Eminence will judge: the ball of Madame the Constable; the night at the Louvre; the evening at Amiens; the arrest of Montague; the letter of Madame de Chevreuse.’
“陛下将评判：警察夫人的舞会；卢浮宫之夜；晚上在亚眠；蒙塔古被捕；谢夫勒斯夫人的信。”

‘That’s it,’ said the cardinal, ‘that’s it. You have an excellent memory, Milady.’
“就是这样，”红衣主教说，“就是这样。”你的记忆力真好，米莱迪。”

‘But,’ resumed she to whom the cardinal addressed this flattering compliment, ‘if, in spite of all these reasons, the duke does not give way and continues to menace France?’
“但是，”红衣主教向她说了这句谄媚的恭维话后，她继续说道，“如果公爵不顾所有这些原因，不让步并继续威胁法国呢？”

‘The duke is in love to madness, or rather to folly,’ replied Richelieu, with great bitterness. ‘Like the ancient paladins, he has only undertaken this war to obtain a look from his lady love. If he becomes certain that this war will cost the honor, and perhaps the liberty, of the lady of his thoughts, as he says, I will answer for it he will look twice.’
“公爵热衷于疯狂，或者更确切地说，热衷于愚蠢。”黎塞留极其痛苦地回答道。 ‘就像古代的圣骑士一样，他发动这场战争只是为了得到他心爱的女人的一瞥。如果他确定这场战争将损害他心目中的女士的荣誉，也许还有自由，正如他所说，我会为此负责，他会再看一遍。

‘And yet,’ said Milady, with a persistence that proved she wished to see clearly to the end of the mission with which she was about to be charged, ‘if he persists?’
“然而，”米莱迪说道，她的坚持表明她希望清楚地看到她即将承担的任务的结束，“如果他坚持下去呢？”

‘If he persists?’ said the cardinal. ‘That is not probable.’
“如果他坚持的话？”红衣主教问道。 “这不太可能。”

‘It is possible,’ said Milady.
“有可能，”米莱迪说。

‘If he persists—‘ His Eminence made a pause, and resumed: ‘If he persists—well, then I shall hope for one of those events which change the destinies of states.’
“如果他坚持——”主教大人停顿了一下，然后继续说道：“如果他坚持——好吧，那么我将希望发生一件能够改变国家命运的事件。”

‘If your Eminence would quote to me some one of these events in history,’ said Milady, ‘perhaps I should partake of your confidence as to the future.’
“如果阁下能向我引用历史上的一些事件，”米拉迪说，“也许我应该分享您对未来的信心。”

‘Well, here, for example,’ said Richelieu: ‘when, in 1610, for a cause similar to that which moves the duke, King Henry IV, of glorious memory, was about, at the same time, to invade Flanders and Italy, in order to attack Austria on both sides. Well, did there not happen an event which saved Austria? Why should not the king of France have the same chance as the emperor?’
“嗯，例如，”黎塞留说：“1610 年，出于与记忆力辉煌的公爵亨利四世类似的事业，他即将同时入侵佛兰德斯和意大利，以便从两侧进攻奥地利。那么，不是发生了拯救奥地利的事件吗？为什么法国国王不应该有和皇帝一样的机会呢？

‘Your Eminence means, I presume, the knife stab in the Rue de la Feronnerie?’
“我猜，大人指的是费罗内里路上刺伤的刀？”

‘Precisely,’ said the cardinal.
“正是如此，”红衣主教说。

‘Does not your Eminence fear that the punishment inflicted upon Ravaillac may deter anyone who might entertain the idea of imitating him?’
“陛下难道不担心对拉瓦雅克施加的惩罚会阻止任何想效仿他的人吗？”

‘There will be, in all times and in all countries, particularly if religious divisions exist in those countries, fanatics who ask nothing better than to become martyrs. Ay, and observe—it just occurs to me that the Puritans are furious against Buckingham, and their preachers designate him as the Antichrist.’
“古今中外，在所有国家，尤其是在那些存在宗教分歧的国家，都会有狂热分子，他们除了成为烈士之外别无所求。是的，请注意——我只是想到清教徒对白金汉感到愤怒，他们的传教士称他为反基督者。

‘Well?’ said Milady.
“怎么样？”米莱迪说。

‘Well,’ continued the cardinal, in an indifferent tone, ‘the only thing to be sought for at this moment is some woman, handsome, young, and clever, who has cause of quarrel with the duke. The duke has had many affairs of gallantry; and if he has fostered his amours by promises of eternal constancy, he must likewise have sown the seeds of hatred by his eternal infidelities.’
“好吧，”红衣主教用冷漠的语气继续说道，“现在唯一需要寻找的是一位英俊、年轻、聪明、与公爵有争执的女人。公爵有过许多侠义事迹。如果他通过永远忠诚的承诺来培育他的爱情，那么他也一定通过他永恒的不忠播下了仇恨的种子。

‘No doubt,’ said Milady, coolly, ‘such a woman may be found.’
“毫无疑问，”米莱迪冷静地说，“这样的女人是可以找到的。”

‘Well, such a woman, who would place the knife of Jacques Clement or of Ravaillac in the hands of a fanatic, would save France.’
“好吧，这样一个女人，将雅克·克莱门特或拉瓦雅克的刀交到狂热分子手中，就能拯救法国。”

‘Yes; but she would then be the accomplice of an assassination.’
'是的;但她会成为暗杀的同谋。”

‘Were the accomplices of Ravaillac or of Jacques Clement ever known?’
“拉瓦雅克或雅克·克莱门特的同谋是否为人所知？”

‘No; for perhaps they were too high-placed for anyone to dare look for them where they were. The Palace of Justice would not be burned down for everybody, monseigneur.’
'不;因为也许他们的地位太高了，以至于没有人敢在他们所在的地方寻找他们。司法宫不会为所有人而被烧毁，大人。

‘You think, then, that the fire at the Palace of Justice was not caused by chance?’ asked Richelieu, in the tone with which he would have put a question of no importance.
“那么，你认为正义宫的火灾不是偶然造成的吗？”黎塞留问道，他的语气就像是在问一个无关紧要的问题。

‘I, monseigneur?’ replied Milady. ‘I think nothing; I quote a fact, that is all. Only I say that if I were named Madame de Montpensier, or the Queen Marie de Medicis, I should use less precautions than I take, being simply called Milady Clarik.’
“我，大人？”米莱迪回答道。 “我什么也没想；我引用一个事实，仅此而已。只是我想说的是，如果我被命名为蒙庞西埃夫人或玛丽·德·梅迪西斯王后，我应该比我简单地称为米拉迪·克拉里克那样采取更少的预防措施。

‘That is just,’ said Richelieu. ‘What do you require, then?’
“正是如此，”黎塞留说。 “那么你需要什么？”

‘I require an order which would ratify beforehand all that I should think proper to do for the greatest good of France.’
“我需要一项命令，预先批准我认为为法国最大利益而应该做的一切事情。”

‘But in the first place, this woman I have described must be found who is desirous of avenging herself upon the duke.’
“但首先，必须找到我所描述的这个渴望向公爵报仇的女人。”

‘She is found,’ said Milady.
“她被发现了，”米莱迪说。

‘Then the miserable fanatic must be found who will serve as an instrument of God’s justice.’
“那么必须找到那个可怜的狂热分子，他将成为上帝正义的工具。”

‘He will be found.’
“他会被发现的。”

‘Well,’ said the cardinal, ‘then it will be time to claim the order which you just now required.’
“好吧，”红衣主教说道，“那么就该领取您刚才所要求的命令了。”

‘Your Eminence is right,’ replied Milady; ‘and I have been wrong in seeing in the mission with which you honor me anything but that which it really is—that is, to announce to his Grace, on the part of your Eminence, that you are acquainted with the different disguises by means of which he succeeded in approaching the queen during the fete given by Madame the Constable; that you have proofs of the interview granted at the Louvre by the queen to a certain Italian astrologer who was no other than the Duke of Buckingham; that you have ordered a little romance of a satirical nature to be written upon the adventures of Amiens, with a plan of the gardens in which those adventures took place, and portraits of the actors who figured in them; that Montague is in the Bastille, and that the torture may make him say things he remembers, and even things he has forgotten; that you possess a certain letter from Madame de Chevreuse, found in his Grace’s lodging, which singularly compromises not only her who wrote it, but her in whose name it was written. Then, if he persists, notwithstanding all this—as that is, as I have said, the limit of my mission—I shall have nothing to do but to pray God to work a miracle for the salvation of France. That is it, is it not, monseigneur, and I shall have nothing else to do?’
“陛下说得对，”米莱迪回答道。 “我错误地认为，您向我授予的使命除了其真正含义外，就是向陛下宣布，您通过各种手段熟悉了不同的伪装。”在警察夫人举办的宴会上，他成功地接近了王后。你有女王在卢浮宫采访一位意大利占星家的证据，他正是白金汉公爵；您已下令写一部关于亚眠冒险的讽刺性浪漫小说，其中包括发生这些冒险的花园的平面图，以及其中的演员的肖像；蒙塔古在巴士底狱，酷刑可能使他说出他记得的事情，甚至他已经忘记的事情；你拥有谢夫勒斯夫人的一封信，是在公爵夫人的住处发现的，这封信不仅损害了写这封信的她的利益，而且损害了以她的名义写下这封信的她的利益。那么，如果他坚持不懈，尽管如此——正如我所说，这是我使命的极限——我将无事可做，只能祈祷上帝为拯救法国创造奇迹。就是这样，不是吗，大人，我就没有别的事情可做了吗？

‘That is it,’ replied the cardinal, dryly.
“就是这样，”红衣主教干巴巴地回答道。

‘And now,’ said Milady, without appearing to remark the change of the duke’s tone toward her—‘now that I have received the instructions of your Eminence as concerns your enemies, Monseigneur will permit me to say a few words to him of mine?’
“现在，”米莱迪说道，似乎没有注意到公爵对她语气的变化——“既然我已经收到了阁下关于您的敌人的指示，大人将允许我对他说几句话。” ？

‘Have you enemies, then?’ asked Richelieu.
“那么，你们有敌人吗？”黎塞留问道。

‘Yes, monseigneur, enemies against whom you owe me all your support, for I made them by serving your Eminence.’
“是的，大人，对于这些敌人，您应该给予我全力的支持，因为我是通过为大人服务而制造出他们的。”

‘Who are they?’ replied the duke.
“他们是谁？”公爵回答道。

‘In the first place, there is a little intrigante named Bonacieux.’
“首先，有一个名叫博纳希厄的小阴谋家。”

‘She is in the prison of Nantes.’
“她在南特监狱里。”

‘That is to say, she was there,’ replied Milady; ‘but the queen has obtained an order from the king by means of which she has been conveyed to a convent.’
“也就是说，她在那儿。”米莱迪回答道。 “但女王已获得国王的命令，根据该命令，她已被送往修道院。”

‘To a convent?’ said the duke.
“去修道院？”公爵问道。

‘Yes, to a convent.’
“是的，去修道院。”

‘And to which?’
“那又是哪一个呢？”

‘I don’t know; the secret has been well kept.’
'我不知道;这个秘密一直保存得很好。”

‘But I will know!’
“但我会知道的！”

‘And your Eminence will tell me in what convent that woman is?’
“主教阁下能告诉我那个女人在哪个修道院吗？”

‘I can see nothing inconvenient in that,’ said the cardinal.
“我看不出这有什么不便，”红衣主教说。

‘Well, now I have an enemy much more to be dreaded by me than this little Madame Bonacieux.’
“好吧，现在我有了一个比博纳瑟小夫人更让我害怕的敌人。”

‘Who is that?’
'那是谁？'

‘Her lover.’
“她的情人。”

‘What is his name?’
“他叫什么名字？”

‘Oh, your Eminence knows him well,’ cried Milady, carried away by her anger. ‘He is the evil genius of both of us. It is he who in an encounter with your Eminence’s Guards decided the victory in favor of the king’s Musketeers; it is he who gave three desperate wounds to de Wardes, your emissary, and who caused the affair of the diamond studs to fail; it is he who, knowing it was I who had Madame Bonacieux carried off, has sworn my death.’
“哦，陛下很了解他，”米莱迪被她的愤怒冲昏了头，喊道。 ‘他是我们俩的邪恶天才。正是他在与阁下卫队的一场战斗中决定了国王火枪手的胜利。是他给你的使者德瓦尔德造成了三处致命的伤害，也是他导致了钻石耳钉事件的失败。正是他，知道是我带走了博纳希厄夫人，所以发誓要我死。

‘Ah, ah!’ said the cardinal, ‘I know of whom you speak.’
“啊，啊！”红衣主教说道，“我知道你说的是谁。”

‘I mean that miserable d’Artagnan.’
“我指的是那个可怜的达达尼昂。”

‘He is a bold fellow,’ said the cardinal.
“他是一个勇敢的人，”红衣主教说。

‘And it is exactly because he is a bold fellow that he is the more to be feared.’
“正因为他是个大胆的家伙，所以他才更令人畏惧。”

‘I must have,’ said the duke, ‘a proof of his connection with Buckingham.’
“我一定有，”公爵说，“证明他与白金汉的关系。”

‘A proof?’ cried Milady; ‘I will have ten.’
“证据？”米莱迪喊道。 “我要十个。”

‘Well, then, it becomes the simplest thing in the world; get me that proof, and I will send him to the Bastille.’
‘好吧，那么，这就成了世界上最简单的事情了；给我证据，我会把他送进巴士底狱。”

‘So far good, monseigneur; but afterwards?’
“到目前为止还不错，大人；但之后呢？

‘When once in the Bastille, there is no afterward!’ said the cardinal, in a low voice. ‘Ah, pardieu!’ continued he, ‘if it were as easy for me to get rid of my enemy as it is easy to get rid of yours, and if it were against such people you require impunity—‘
“一旦进了巴士底狱，就没有以后了！”红衣主教低声说道。 “啊，pardieu！”他继续说道，“如果我能像摆脱你的敌人一样容易地摆脱我的敌人，而且如果是针对这样的人，你就可以不受惩罚——”

‘Monseigneur,’ replied Milady, ‘a fair exchange. Life for life, man for man; give me one, I will give you the other.’
“大人，”米莱迪回答道，“一次公平的交换。”命对命，人对人；给我一个，我给你另一个。

‘I don’t know what you mean, nor do I even desire to know what you mean,’ replied the cardinal; ‘but I wish to please you, and see nothing out of the way in giving you what you demand with respect to so infamous a creature—the more so as you tell me this d’Artagnan is a libertine, a duelist, and a traitor.’
“我不明白你的意思，我也不想知道你的意思，”红衣主教回答道。 “但我希望取悦您，并且不认为有任何问题可以满足您对如此臭名昭著的生物的要求——尤其是当您告诉我这个达达尼昂是一个浪荡子、一个决斗者和一个叛徒时.'

‘An infamous scoundrel, monseigneur, a scoundrel!’
“一个臭名昭著的恶棍，大人，一个恶棍！”

‘Give me paper, a quill, and some ink, then,’ said the cardinal.
“那么，给我纸、羽毛笔和一些墨水，”红衣主教说道。

‘Here they are, monseigneur.’
“他们在这儿，大人。”

There was a moment of silence, which proved that the cardinal was employed in seeking the terms in which he should write the note, or else in writing it. Athos, who had not lost a word of the conversation, took his two companions by the hand, and led them to the other end of the room.
一阵沉默，这证明红衣主教正忙着寻找写这封信的条件，或者说正在写这封信。阿托斯没有漏掉谈话中的一个字，他拉着两个同伴的手，带着他们走向房间的另一端。

‘Well,’ said Porthos, ‘what do you want, and why do you not let us listen to the end of the conversation?’
“好吧，”波托斯说，“你想要什么？为什么不让我们听听谈话的结尾呢？”

‘Hush!’ said Athos, speaking in a low voice. ‘We have heard all it was necessary we should hear; besides, I don’t prevent you from listening, but I must be gone.’
“嘘！”阿托斯低声说道。 “我们已经听到了我们应该听到的一切；另外，我不阻止你听，但我必须走了。

‘You must be gone!’ said Porthos; ‘and if the cardinal asks for you, what answer can we make?’
“你一定是走了！”波托斯说道。 “如果红衣主教找你，我们能回答什么？”

‘You will not wait till he asks; you will speak first, and tell him that I am gone on the lookout, because certain expressions of our host have given me reason to think the road is not safe. I will say two words about it to the cardinal’s esquire likewise. The rest concerns myself; don’t be uneasy about that.’
‘你不会等到他开口问；你先说话，告诉他我出去监视了，因为我们主人的某些表情让我有理由认为这条路不安全。我也会同样向红衣主教的侍从说两句话。剩下的就和我自己有关了；不要为此感到不安。

‘Be prudent, Athos,’ said Aramis.
“要谨慎，阿托斯，”阿拉米斯说。

‘Be easy on that head,’ replied Athos; ‘you know I am cool enough.’
“放心吧，”阿托斯回答道。 “你知道我很酷。”

Porthos and Aramis resumed their places by the stovepipe.
波尔托斯和阿拉米斯回到了炉管旁的位置。

As to Athos, he went out without any mystery, took his horse, which was tied with those of his friends to the fastenings of the shutters, in four words convinced the attendant of the necessity of a vanguard for their return, carefully examined the priming of his pistols, drew his sword, and took, like a forlorn hope, the road to the camp.
至于阿托斯，他毫不神秘地出去了，牵着他的马，那匹马和他朋友的马一起拴在百叶窗的紧固件上，用四个字说服侍从，让他们相信需要先锋来返回，仔细检查了启动。拔出手枪，拔出剑，像绝望的希望一样走上通往营地的路。

45 A CONJUGAL SCENE
第45章 夫妻场面

As Athos had foreseen, it was not long before the cardinal came down. He opened the door of the room in which the Musketeers were, and found Porthos playing an earnest game of dice with Aramis. He cast a rapid glance around the room, and perceived that one of his men was missing.
正如阿多斯所预料的那样，没过多久，红衣主教就下来了。他打开火枪手们所在的房间的门，发现波托斯正和阿拉米斯认真地玩骰子游戏。他迅速扫视了一下房间，发现他的一名手下失踪了。

‘What has become of Monseigneur Athos?’ asked he.
“阿托斯大人怎么样了？”他问道。

‘Monseigneur,’ replied Porthos, ‘he has gone as a scout, on account of some words of our host, which made him believe the road was not safe.’
“大人，”波托斯回答道，“他是去当侦察兵的，因为我们主人的一些话让他相信这条路不安全。”

‘And you, what have you done, Monsieur Porthos?’
“那么你，你做了什么，波尔托斯先生？”

‘I have won five pistoles of Aramis.’
“我赢得了五皮托阿拉米斯。”

‘Well; now will you return with me?’
'出色地;现在你愿意和我一起回去吗？

‘We are at your Eminence’s orders.’
“我们听从陛下的命令。”

‘To horse, then, gentlemen; for it is getting late.’
“那么，先生们，上马吧；因为已经晚了。

The attendant was at the door, holding the cardinal’s horse by the bridle. At a short distance a group of two men and three horses appeared in the shade. These were the two men who were to conduct Milady to the fort of the Point, and superintend her embarkation.
侍者站在门口，牵着红衣主教的马缰绳。不远处，树荫下出现了一群两人和三匹马。这两个人将带领米莱迪前往波因特要塞，并监督她登船。

The attendant confirmed to the cardinal what the two Musketeers had already said with respect to Athos. The cardinal made an approving gesture, and retraced his route with the same precautions he had used incoming.
随从向红衣主教证实了两个火枪手已经说过的关于阿托斯的话。红衣主教做了一个赞同的手势，然后像来时一样小心翼翼地原路返回。

Let us leave him to follow the road to the camp protected by his esquire and the two Musketeers, and return to Athos.
让我们留下他沿着路前往由他的随从和两个火枪手保护的营地，然后返回阿索斯。

For a hundred paces he maintained the speed at which he started; but when out of sight he turned his horse to the right, made a circuit, and came back within twenty paces of a high hedge to watch the passage of the little troop. Having recognized the laced hats of his companions and the golden fringe of the cardinal’s cloak, he waited till the horsemen had turned the angle of the road, and having lost sight of them, he returned at a gallop to the inn, which was opened to him without hesitation.
他保持着出发时的速度走了一百步。但当看不见时，他把马转向右边，绕了一圈，然后回到离高树篱不到二十步的地方，观察这小队人马的经过。他认出了同伴们的花边帽子和红衣主教斗篷的金色流苏，等骑兵拐过路的拐角，看不见他们后，他策马回到旅馆，旅馆对客人开放。他毫不犹豫。

The host recognized him.
主人认出了他。

‘My officer,’ said Athos, ‘has forgotten to give a piece of very important information to the lady, and has sent me back to repair his forgetfulness.’
“我的军官，”阿托斯说，“忘记向这位女士提供一条非常重要的信息，所以派我回去纠正他的健忘。”

‘Go up,’ said the host; ‘she is still in her chamber.’
主人说：“上去吧。” “她还在她的房间里。”

Athos availed himself of the permission, ascended the stairs with his lightest step, gained the landing, and through the open door perceived Milady putting on her hat.
阿多斯得到了许可，以最轻的步伐登上了楼梯，到达了平台，透过敞开的门，看到米莱迪正在戴帽子。

He entered the chamber and closed the door behind him. At the noise he made in pushing the bolt, Milady turned round.
他走进房间，关上身后的门。听到他推门闩的声音，米莱迪转过身来。

Athos was standing before the door, enveloped in his cloak, with his hat pulled down over his eyes. On seeing this figure, mute and immovable as a statue, Milady was frightened.
阿多斯站在门前，裹着斗篷，帽子拉低遮住眼睛。看到这个像雕像一样沉默、一动不动的身影，米莱迪感到害怕。

‘Who are you, and what do you want?’ cried she.
“你是谁，你想要什么？”她喊道。

‘Humph,’ murmured Athos, ‘it is certainly she!’
“哼，”阿托斯低声说道，“肯定是她！”

And letting fall his cloak and raising his hat, he advanced toward Milady.
他脱下斗篷，举起帽子，朝米莱迪走去。

‘Do you know me, madame?’ said he.
“你认识我吗，夫人？”他说。

Milady made one step forward, and then drew back as if she had seen a serpent.
米莱迪向前迈了一步，然后就像看到了一条蛇一样向后退了一步。

‘So far, well,’ said Athos, ‘I perceive you know me.’
“到目前为止，好吧，”阿托斯说，“我觉得你认识我。”

‘The Comte de la Fere!’ murmured Milady, becoming exceedingly pale, and drawing back till the wall prevented her from going any farther.
“德拉费尔伯爵！”米莱迪低声说道，她的脸色变得极其苍白，向后退去，直到墙壁阻止她再走得更远。

‘Yes, Milady,’ replied Athos; ‘the Comte de la Fere in person, who comes expressly from the other world to have the pleasure of paying you a visit. Sit down, madame, and let us talk, as the cardinal said.’
“是的，米莱迪，”阿托斯回答道。 “德拉费尔伯爵亲自从另一个世界来到这里，很高兴拜访您。坐下来，夫人，让我们谈谈，正如红衣主教所说的那样。”

Milady, under the influence of inexpressible terror, sat down without uttering a word.
米莱迪在无法形容的恐惧的影响下，一言不发地坐下了。

‘You certainly are a demon sent upon the earth!’ said Athos. ‘Your power is great, I know; but you also know that with the help of God men have often conquered the most terrible demons. You have once before thrown yourself in my path. I thought I had crushed you, madame; but either I was deceived or hell has resuscitated you!’
“你确实是被派到地球上的恶魔！”阿托斯说道。 “我知道你的力量很大；但你也知道，在上帝的帮助下，人们常常战胜了最可怕的恶魔。你曾经曾经挡在我的路上。我以为我已经压垮了你，夫人；但要么我被欺骗了，要么地狱让你复活了！”

Milady at these words, which recalled frightful remembrances, hung down her head with a suppressed groan.
米莱迪听到这句话，想起了可怕的回忆，低下头，压抑着呻吟。

‘Yes, hell has resuscitated you,’ continued Athos. ‘Hell has made you rich, hell has given you another name, hell has almost made you another face; but it has neither effaced the stains from your soul nor the brand from your body.’
“是的，地狱让你复活了，”阿托斯继续说道。 ‘地狱让你变得富有，地狱给了你另一个名字，地狱几乎让你有了另一张面孔；但它既没有抹去你灵魂上的污点，也没有抹去你身体上的烙印。”

Milady arose as if moved by a powerful spring, and her eyes flashed lightning. Athos remained sitting.
米莱迪仿佛被一股强大的力量触动般站了起来，她的眼睛里闪烁着闪电。阿托斯仍然坐着。

‘You believed me to be dead, did you not, as I believed you to be? And the name of Athos as well concealed the Comte de la Fere, as the name Milady Clarik concealed Anne de Breuil. Was it not so you were called when your honored brother married us? Our position is truly a strange one,’ continued Athos, laughing. ‘We have only lived up to the present time because we believed each other dead, and because a remembrance is less oppressive than a living creature, though a remembrance is sometimes devouring.’
‘你相信我已经死了，不是吗，正如我所相信的那样？阿托斯的名字也掩盖了拉费尔伯爵，正如米拉迪·克拉里克的名字掩盖了安妮·德布勒伊一样。你哥哥和我们结婚的时候不是这么称呼你的吗？我们的处境确实很奇怪，”阿托斯笑着继续说道。 “我们之所以活到现在，只是因为我们相信彼此已经死了，而且因为回忆不像活物那样令人压抑，尽管回忆有时会吞噬人。”

‘But,’ said Milady, in a hollow, faint voice, ‘what brings you back to me, and what do you want with me?’
“但是，”米莱迪用空洞而微弱的声音说道，“是什么让你回到我身边，你想要我做什么？”

‘I wish to tell you that though remaining invisible to your eyes, I have not lost sight of you.’
“我想告诉你，虽然你看不见我，但我并没有失去你。”

‘You know what I have done?’
“你知道我做了什么吗？”

‘I can relate to you, day by day, your actions from your entrance to the service of the cardinal to this evening.’
“从你开始为红衣主教服务到今天晚上，我可以日复一日地体会到你的所作所为。”

A smile of incredulity passed over the pale lips of Milady.
米莱迪苍白的嘴唇上掠过一丝难以置信的微笑。

‘Listen! It was you who cut off the two diamond studs from the shoulder of the Duke of Buckingham; it was you had the Madame Bonacieux carried off; it was you who, in love with de Wardes and thinking to pass the night with him, opened the door to Monsieur d’Artagnan; it was you who, believing that de Wardes had deceived you, wished to have him killed by his rival; it was you who, when this rival had discovered your infamous secret, wished to have him killed in his turn by two assassins, whom you sent in pursuit of him; it was you who, finding the balls had missed their mark, sent poisoned wine with a forged letter, to make your victim believe that the wine came from his friends. In short, it was you who have but now in this chamber, seated in this chair I now fill, made an engagement with Cardinal Richelieu to cause the Duke of Buckingham to be assassinated, in exchange for the promise he has made you to allow you to assassinate d’Artagnan.’
'听！是你从白金汉公爵的肩膀上砍下了两颗钻石耳钉；是你把博纳希厄夫人带走了；是你爱上了德瓦尔德并想与他共度良宵，为达达尼昂先生打开了大门；是你相信德瓦尔德欺骗了你，希望他被他的对手杀死；当这个对手发现了你臭名昭著的秘密时，你希望轮到你派去追捕他的两名刺客杀死他。是你发现球没有达到目标，就用一封伪造的信件寄出毒酒，让你的受害者相信这些酒来自他的朋友。简而言之，正是你现在在这个会议厅里，坐在我现在担任的这把椅子上，与红衣主教黎塞留订婚，刺杀白金汉公爵，以换取他向你做出的承诺，让你允许你刺杀达达尼昂。

Milady was livid.
米莱迪很生气。

‘You must be Satan!’ cried she.
“你一定是撒旦！”她喊道。

‘Perhaps,’ said Athos; ‘But at all events listen well to this. Assassinate the Duke of Buckingham, or cause him to be assassinated—I care very little about that! I don’t know him. Besides, he is an Englishman. But do not touch with the tip of your finger a single hair of d’Artagnan, who is a faithful friend whom I love and defend, or I swear to you by the head of my father the crime which you shall have endeavored to commit, or shall have committed, shall be the last.’
“也许吧，”阿托斯说。 “但无论如何，请好好听听。”刺杀白金汉公爵，或者导致他被暗杀——我对此毫不关心！我不认识他。此外，他是一个英国人。但是，不要用你的指尖碰达达尼昂的一根头发，他是我所爱和捍卫的忠实朋友，否则我以我父亲的头向你发誓，你将试图犯下的罪行，或将犯下的，将是最后一个。

‘Monsieur d’Artagnan has cruelly insulted me,’ said Milady, in a hollow tone; ‘Monsieur d’Artagnan shall die!’
“达达尼昂先生残酷地侮辱了我，”米拉迪语气空洞地说。 “达达尼昂先生必死无疑！”

‘Indeed! Is it possible to insult you, madame?’ said Athos, laughing; ‘he has insulted you, and he shall die!’
'的确！ “可以侮辱您吗，夫人？”阿托斯笑着说道。 “他侮辱了你，他应该死！”

‘He shall die!’ replied Milady; ‘she first, and he afterward.’
“他会死的！”米莱迪回答道。 “她先，然后是他。”

Athos was seized with a kind of vertigo. The sight of this creature, who had nothing of the woman about her, recalled awful remembrances. He thought how one day, in a less dangerous situation than the one in which he was now placed, he had already endeavored to sacrifice her to his honor. His desire for blood returned, burning his brain and pervading his frame like a raging fever; he arose in his turn, reached his hand to his belt, drew forth a pistol, and cocked it.
阿托斯感到一阵眩晕。看到这个生物，她身上没有任何女人的影子，唤起了可怕的回忆。他想，有一天，在比现在更危险的情况下，他已经试图为了自己的荣誉而牺牲她。他对鲜血的渴望又回来了，烧灼着他的大脑，像一场熊熊的高烧一样弥漫在他的全身。轮到他站起来，把手伸到腰带上，拔出手枪，扣上扳机。

Milady, pale as a corpse, endeavored to cry out; but her swollen tongue could utter no more than a hoarse sound which had nothing human in it and resembled the rattle of a wild beast. Motionless against the dark tapestry, with her hair in disorder, she appeared like a horrid image of terror.
米莱迪脸色苍白得像死人一样，拼命叫喊。但她肿胀的舌头只能发出嘶哑的声音，毫无人性，就像野兽的嘎嘎声。她一动不动地靠在黑色的挂毯上，头发乱糟糟的，看起来就像一个可怕的恐怖形象。

Athos slowly raised his pistol, stretched out his arm so that the weapon almost touched Milady’s forehead, and then, in a voice the more terrible from having the supreme calmness of a fixed resolution, ‘Madame,’ said he, ‘you will this instant deliver to me the paper the cardinal signed; or upon my soul, I will blow your brains out.’
阿托斯慢慢地举起手枪，伸出手臂，让武器几乎碰到了米莱迪的前额，然后，他的声音因坚定的决心而变得更加平静，声音更加可怕，“夫人，”他说，“你会立即把红衣主教签署的文件交给我；或者在我的灵魂上，我会炸掉你的大脑。

With another man, Milady might have preserved some doubt; but she knew Athos. Nevertheless, she remained motionless.
对于另一个男人，米莱迪可能会保留一些怀疑；但她认识阿托斯。尽管如此，她还是一动不动。

‘You have one second to decide,’ said he.
“你有一秒钟的时间来决定，”他说。

Milady saw by the contraction of his countenance that the trigger was about to be pulled; she reached her hand quickly to her bosom, drew out a paper, and held it toward Athos.
米莱迪从他的脸色收缩看出，扳机即将扣动。她迅速把手伸到怀里，抽出一张纸，递给阿多斯。

‘Take it,’ said she, ‘and be accursed!’
“拿着它，”她说，“那就被诅咒吧！”

Athos took the paper, returned the pistol to his belt, approached the lamp to be assured that it was the paper, unfolded it, and read:
阿多斯接过那张纸，把手枪放回腰带，走近灯以确定那是那张纸，然后展开它，读道：

Dec. 3, 1627
1627 年 12 月 3 日

It is by my order and for the good of the state that the bearer of this has done what he has done.
这是我的命令，也是为了国家的利益，这个命令的持有者做了他所做的事情。

Richelieu
黎塞留

‘And now,’ said Athos, resuming his cloak and putting on his hat, ‘now that I have drawn your teeth, viper, bite if you can.’
“现在，”阿多斯说着，重新穿上斗篷，戴上帽子，“现在我已经拔掉了你的牙齿，毒蛇，如果你能咬的话，就咬吧。”

And he left the chamber without once looking behind him.
他离开了房间，头也不回地看了一眼。

At the door he found the two men and the spare horse which they held.
在门口，他发现了这两个人以及他们所持有的备用马。

‘Gentlemen,’ said he, ‘Monseigneur’s order is, you know, to conduct that woman, without losing time, to the fort of the Point, and never to leave her till she is on board.’
“先生们，”他说，“大人的命令是，要抓紧时间，把那个女人带到波因特要塞，在她上船之前，不要离开她。”

As these words agreed wholly with the order they had received, they bowed their heads in sign of assent.
这话与他们接到的命令完全吻合，他们纷纷低头表示同意。

With regard to Athos, he leaped lightly into the saddle and set out at full gallop; only instead of following the road, he went across the fields, urging his horse to the utmost and stopping occasionally to listen.
至于阿托斯，他轻轻跳上马鞍，全速驰骋。只是他没有沿着大路走，而是穿过田野，竭力策马，时不时停下来听听。

In one of those halts he heard the steps of several horses on the road. He had no doubt it was the cardinal and his escort. He immediately made a new point in advance, rubbed his horse down with some heath and leaves of trees, and placed himself across the road, about two hundred paces from the camp.
在其中一次停车时，他听到路上有几匹马的脚步声。他毫不怀疑那是红衣主教和他的护卫。他立即提前定下新的地点，用石南花和树叶擦了擦马，然后穿过马路，距离营地大约两百步。

‘Who goes there?’ cried he, as soon as he perceived the horsemen.
“谁去那里了？”他一看到骑兵就喊道。

‘That is our brave Musketeer, I think,’ said the cardinal.
“我想，这就是我们勇敢的火枪手，”红衣主教说。

‘Yes, monseigneur,’ said Porthos, ‘it is he.’
“是的，大人，”波托斯说，“就是他。”

‘Monsieur Athos,’ said Richelieu, ‘receive my thanks for the good guard you have kept. Gentlemen, we are arrived; take the gate on the left. The watchword is, ‘King and Re.’’
“阿多斯先生，”黎塞留说道，“请接受我的谢意，感谢您的严密守护。先生们，我们到了；走左边的门。口号是“King and Re”。

Saying these words, the cardinal saluted the three friends with an inclination of his head, and took the right hand, followed by his attendant—for that night he himself slept in the camp.
说完这句话，红衣主教向三位朋友低头行礼，然后握住右手，后面跟着他的随从——因为当晚他自己就睡在营地里。

‘Well!’ said Porthos and Aramis together, as soon as the cardinal was out of hearing, ‘well, he signed the paper she required!’
“好吧！”等红衣主教听不见了，波托斯和阿拉米斯一起说道，“好吧，他签署了她需要的文件！”

‘I know it,’ said Athos, coolly, ‘since here it is.’
“我知道，”阿托斯冷冷地说，“因为它就在这里。”

And the three friends did not exchange another word till they reached their quarters, except to give the watchword to the sentinels. Only they sent Mousqueton to tell Planchet that his master was requested, the instant that he left the trenches, to come to the quarters of the Musketeers.
直到到达自己的住处，三个朋友除了向哨兵发出口令外，没有再说一句话。只是他们派了穆斯克顿去告诉普朗切特，他的主人在离开战壕的那一刻就被要求来到火枪手的住处。

Milady, as Athos had foreseen, on finding the two men that awaited her, made no difficulty in following them. She had had for an instant an inclination to be reconducted to the cardinal, and relate everything to him; but a revelation on her part would bring about a revelation on the part of Athos. She might say that Athos had hanged her; but then Athos would tell that she was branded. She thought it was best to preserve silence, to discreetly set off to accomplish her difficult mission with her usual skill; and then, all things being accomplished to the satisfaction of the cardinal, to come to him and claim her vengeance.
正如阿托斯所预见的那样，米莱迪在找到等待她的两个男人后，毫不费力地跟着他们。她有一瞬间想要被重新引导到红衣主教那里，并把一切都告诉他。但她的揭露也会带来阿多斯的揭露。她可能会说阿多斯绞死了她；但随后阿多斯会告诉她，她被打上了烙印。她认为最好保持沉默，谨慎地出发，用她惯常的技能去完成她艰巨的任务；然后，一切都已完成，让红衣主教满意，她就来找他报仇。

In consequence, after having traveled all night, at seven o’clock she was at the fort of the Point; at eight o’clock she had embarked; and at nine, the vessel, which with letters of marque from the cardinal was supposed to be sailing for Bayonne, raised anchor, and steered its course toward England.
结果，经过一夜的路程，七点钟她就到达了角堡。八点钟，她登船了。九点钟，这艘带有红衣主教颁发的私掠许可证、本应驶往巴约讷的船只起锚，驶向英国。

46 THE BASTION SAINT-GERVAIS
46 圣热尔韦堡垒

On arriving at the lodgings of his three friends, d’Artagnan found them assembled in the same chamber. Athos was meditating; Porthos was twisting his mustache; Aramis was saying his prayers in a charming little Book of Hours, bound in blue velvet.
到达三个朋友的住所后，达达尼昂发现他们聚集在同一个房间里。阿托斯正在沉思。波托斯正在捻着他的小胡子。阿拉米斯正在用蓝色天鹅绒装订的迷人的小时辰书祈祷。

‘Pardieu, gentlemen,’ said he. ‘I hope what you have to tell me is worth the trouble, or else, I warn you, I will not pardon you for making me come here instead of getting a little rest after a night spent in taking and dismantling a bastion. Ah, why were you not there, gentlemen? It was warm work.’
“帕迪乌，先生们，”他说。 “我希望你告诉我的事情是值得的，否则，我警告你，我不会原谅你让我来到这里，而不是在花了一个晚上攻占和拆除堡垒后休息一下。啊，先生们，你们为什么不在那儿？这是一份温暖的工作。

‘We were in a place where it was not very cold,’ replied Porthos, giving his mustache a twist which was peculiar to him.
“我们所在的地方不太冷，”波尔托斯回答道，他把胡子扭了一下，这是他特有的。

‘Hush!’ said Athos.
“嘘！”阿托斯说。

‘Oh, oh!’ said d’Artagnan, comprehending the slight frown of the Musketeer. ‘It appears there is something fresh aboard.’
“噢，噢！”达达尼昂说道，他理解了火枪手微微皱起的眉头。 “看来船上有新鲜的东西。”

‘Aramis,’ said Athos, ‘you went to breakfast the day before yesterday at the inn of the Parpaillot, I believe?’
“阿拉米斯，”阿托斯说，“我想你前天去帕帕约旅馆吃过早餐吧？”

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘How did you fare?’
“你过得怎么样？”

‘For my part, I ate but little. The day before yesterday was a fish day, and they had nothing but meat.’
“就我而言，我吃得很少。前天是鱼日，他们除了肉什么也没有。

‘What,’ said Athos, ‘no fish at a seaport?’
“什么，”阿托斯说，“海港没有鱼？”

‘They say,’ said Aramis, resuming his pious reading, ‘that the dyke which the cardinal is making drives them all out into the open sea.’
“他们说，”阿拉米斯一边说，一边继续虔诚地读书，“红衣主教正在筑起的堤坝把他们全都赶到了大海里。”

‘But that is not quite what I mean to ask you, Aramis,’ replied Athos. ‘I want to know if you were left alone, and nobody interrupted you.’
“但这并不是我要问你的意思，阿拉米斯，”阿托斯回答道。 “我想知道你是否独自一人，没有人打扰你。”

‘Why, I think there were not many intruders. Yes, Athos, I know what you mean: we shall do very well at the Parpaillot.’
‘为什么，我认为入侵者并不多。是的，阿托斯，我明白你的意思：我们在帕帕约特会表现得很好。

‘Let us go to the Parpaillot, then, for here the walls are like sheets of paper.’
“那么，让我们去帕帕约特吧，因为这里的墙壁就像一张张纸。”

D’Artagnan, who was accustomed to his friend’s manner of acting, and who perceived immediately, by a word, a gesture, or a sign from him, that the circumstances were serious, took Athos’s arm, and went out without saying anything. Porthos followed, chatting with Aramis.
达达尼昂已经习惯了他朋友的行事方式，从他的一句话、一个手势或一个手势中，他立即看出情况很严重，于是拉着阿托斯的手臂，什么也没说就出去了。波托斯跟在后面，一边和阿拉米斯聊天。

On their way they met Grimaud. Athos made him a sign to come with them. Grimaud, according to custom, obeyed in silence; the poor lad had nearly come to the pass of forgetting how to speak.
在路上他们遇到了格里莫。阿多斯示意他跟他们一起走。格里莫按照惯例，默默地服从了。这个可怜的小伙子几乎忘记了如何说话。

They arrived at the drinking room of the Parpaillot. It was seven o’clock in the morning, and daylight began to appear. The three friends ordered breakfast, and went into a room in which the host said they would not be disturbed.
他们来到了Parpaillot 的酒水室。早上七点钟，天开始亮了。三个朋友点了早餐，走进了一个房间，主人说他们不会被打扰。

Unfortunately, the hour was badly chosen for a private conference. The morning drum had just been beaten; everyone shook off the drowsiness of night, and to dispel the humid morning air, came to take a drop at the inn. Dragoons, Swiss, Guardsmen, Musketeers, light-horsemen, succeeded one another with a rapidity which might answer the purpose of the host very well, but agreed badly with the views of the four friends. Thus they applied very curtly to the salutations, healths, and jokes of their companions.
不幸的是，私人会议的时间选择得很糟糕。晨鼓刚刚敲响；大家摆脱了一夜的睡意，驱散早晨潮湿的空气，来到客栈喝了一口。龙骑兵、瑞士人、近卫军、火枪手、轻骑兵，他们的速度很快，这可能很好地满足了东道主的目的，但与四位朋友的观点却很不一致。因此，他们对同伴的问候、健康和笑话都非常简短。

‘I see how it will be,’ said Athos: ‘we shall get into some pretty quarrel or other, and we have no need of one just now. D’Artagnan, tell us what sort of a night you have had, and we will describe ours afterward.’
“我知道事情会怎样，”阿托斯说，“我们会发生一些漂亮的争吵或其他事情，但我们现在不需要这样的争吵。”达达尼昂，告诉我们你度过了一个什么样的夜晚，我们稍后会描述我们的夜晚。

‘Ah, yes,’ said a light-horseman, with a glass of brandy in his hand, which he sipped slowly. ‘I hear you gentlemen of the Guards have been in the trenches tonight, and that you did not get much the best of the Rochellais.’
“啊，是的，”一个轻骑兵说道，他手里拿着一杯白兰地，慢慢地喝了一口。 “我听说你们这些近卫军先生们今晚都在战壕里，你们并没有从罗切莱家族中得到多少好处。”

D’Artagnan looked at Athos to know if he ought to reply to this intruder who thus mixed unasked in their conversation.
达达尼昂看着阿托斯，想知道他是否应该回答这个不请自来地混入他们谈话的闯入者。

‘Well,’ said Athos, ‘don’t you hear Monsieur de Busigny, who does you the honor to ask you a question? Relate what has passed during the night, since these gentlemen desire to know it.’
“好吧，”阿托斯说，“你没听到德·布西尼先生的声音吗？您有幸向您提问吗？讲述一下当晚发生的事情，因为这些先生们想知道。

‘Have you not taken a bastion?’ said a Swiss, who was drinking rum out of beer glass.
“你们没有占领堡垒吗？”一个正在用啤酒杯喝朗姆酒的瑞士人说道。

‘Yes, monsieur,’ said d’Artagnan, bowing, ‘we have had that honor. We even have, as you may have heard, introduced a barrel of powder under one of the angles, which in blowing up made a very pretty breach. Without reckoning that as the bastion was not built yesterday all the rest of the building was badly shaken.’
“是的，先生，”达达尼昂鞠躬说道，“我们有此荣幸。正如您可能听说的那样，我们甚至在其中一个角度下放了一桶火药，在炸毁时形成了一个非常漂亮的缺口。没有想到的是，由于堡垒昨天没有建成，所以建筑物的其余部分都受到了严重的震动。

‘And what bastion is it?’ asked a dragoon, with his saber run through a goose which he was taking to be cooked.
“那是什么堡垒？”一个龙骑兵问道，他用军刀刺穿了一只准备煮的鹅。

‘The bastion St. Gervais,’ replied d’Artagnan, ‘from behind which the Rochellais annoyed our workmen.’
“圣热尔韦堡垒，”达达尼昂回答说，“罗谢莱人从后面惹恼了我们的工人。”

‘Was that affair hot?’
“那件事很热门吗？”

‘Yes, moderately so. We lost five men, and the Rochellais eight or ten.’
“是的，差不多吧。”我们失去了五个人，罗切莱家族则损失了八到十个人。”

‘Balzempleu!’ said the Swiss, who, notwithstanding the admirable collection of oaths possessed by the German language, had acquired a habit of swearing in French.
“巴尔赞普鲁！”瑞士人说，尽管德语拥有令人钦佩的誓言集合，但他却养成了用法语说脏话的习惯。

‘But it is probable,’ said the light-horseman, ‘that they will send pioneers this morning to repair the bastion.’
“不过，”轻骑兵说道，“他们很可能会在今天早上派出先锋去修复堡垒。”

‘Yes, that’s probable,’ said d’Artagnan.
“是的，这很可能，”达达尼昂说。

‘Gentlemen,’ said Athos, ‘a wager!’
“先生们，”阿托斯说道，“赌一赌！”

‘Ah, wooi, a vager!’ cried the Swiss.
“啊，哇，一个怪人！”瑞士人喊道。

‘What is it?’ said the light-horseman.
“那是什么？”轻骑兵问道。

‘Stop a bit,’ said the dragoon, placing his saber like a spit upon the two large iron dogs which held the firebrands in the chimney, ‘stop a bit, I am in it. You cursed host! a dripping pan immediately, that I may not lose a drop of the fat of this estimable bird.’
“停一下，”龙骑兵说道，将他的军刀像唾沫一样放在两只大铁狗上，那两条铁狗把火把插在烟囱里，“停一下，我在里面。”你这该死的主人！立即滴水锅，这样我就不会失去这只可敬的鸟的一滴脂肪。

‘You was right,’ said the Swiss; ‘goose grease is kood with basdry.’
“你是对的，”瑞士人说。 “鹅油和巴斯德瑞很搭。”

‘There!’ said the dragoon. ‘Now for the wager! We listen, Monsieur Athos.’
“那里！”龙骑兵说道。 ‘现在开始打赌！我们听着，阿托斯先生。”

‘Yes, the wager!’ said the light-horseman.
“是的，赌注！”轻骑兵说道。

‘Well, Monsieur de Busigny, I will bet you,’ said Athos, ‘that my three companions, Messieurs Porthos, Aramis, and d’Artagnan, and myself, will go and breakfast in the bastion St. Gervais, and we will remain there an hour, by the watch, whatever the enemy may do to dislodge us.’
“好吧，德布西尼先生，我跟你打赌，”阿多斯说，“我的三个同伴，波托斯先生、阿拉米斯先生、达达尼昂先生，还有我自己，都会去圣热尔韦堡垒吃早餐，然后我们就留下来。”在那里一小时，值班，无论敌人会做什么来驱逐我们。

Porthos and Aramis looked at each other; they began to comprehend.
波尔托斯和阿拉米斯面面相觑。他们开始明白了。

‘But,’ said d’Artagnan, in the ear of Athos, ‘you are going to get us all killed without mercy.’
“但是，”达达尼昂在阿托斯耳边说道，“你会毫不留情地杀死我们所有人。”

‘We are much more likely to be killed,’ said Athos, ‘if we do not go.’
“如果我们不去，我们就更有可能被杀，”阿托斯说。

‘My faith, gentlemen,’ said Porthos, turning round upon his chair and twisting his mustache, ‘that’s a fair bet, I hope.’
“我相信，先生们，”波托斯在椅子上转过身来，捻着小胡子说道，“我希望这是一个公平的赌注。”

‘I take it,’ said M. de Busigny; ‘so let us fix the stake.’
“我接受了，”德布西尼先生说。 “所以让我们解决赌注吧。”

‘You are four gentlemen,’ said Athos, ‘and we are four; an unlimited dinner for eight. Will that do?’
“你们是四位先生，”阿多斯说，“我们也是四位；八人无限量晚餐。这样可以吗？

‘Capitally,’ replied M. de Busigny.
“基本上，”德布西尼先生回答道。

‘Perfectly,’ said the dragoon.
“完美，”龙骑兵说。

‘That shoots me,’ said the Swiss.
“这让我很震惊，”瑞士人说道。

The fourth auditor, who during all this conversation had played a mute part, made a sign of the head in proof that he acquiesced in the proposition.
第四位审计员在整个谈话过程中一直扮演着沉默的角色，他做了一个点头的手势，以证明他默许了这个提议。

‘The breakfast for these gentlemen is ready,’ said the host.
“先生们的早餐已经准备好了。”主人说道。

‘Well, bring it,’ said Athos.
“好吧，拿来吧，”阿托斯说。

The host obeyed. Athos called Grimaud, pointed to a large basket which lay in a corner, and made a sign to him to wrap the viands up in the napkins.
主人听从了。阿多斯打电话给格里莫，指着角落里的一个大篮子，示意他餐巾纸包好食物。

Grimaud understood that it was to be a breakfast on the grass, took the basket, packed up the viands, added the bottles, and then took the basket on his arm.
格里莫明白这是在草地上吃早餐，便接过篮子，收拾好食物，加上瓶子，然后把篮子扛在胳膊上。

‘But where are you going to eat my breakfast?’ asked the host.
“但是你要去哪里吃我的早餐呢？”主人问。

‘What matter, if you are paid for it?’ said Athos, and he threw two pistoles majestically on the table.
“有什么关系，如果你付钱的话？”阿托斯说道，然后他威严地把两支手枪扔到桌子上。

‘Shall I give you the change, my officer?’ said the host.
“我给你找零钱吗，我的军官？”主人说。

‘No, only add two bottles of champagne, and the difference will be for the napkins.’
“不，只要加两瓶香槟，区别就在于餐巾纸。”

The host had not quite so good a bargain as he at first hoped for, but he made amends by slipping in two bottles of Anjou wine instead of two bottles of champagne.
主人并没有像他最初希望的那样讨价还价，但他用两瓶安茹葡萄酒而不是两瓶香槟来弥补。

‘Monsieur de Busigny,’ said Athos, ‘will you be so kind as to set your watch with mine, or permit me to regulate mine by yours?’
“德·比西尼先生，”阿多斯说道，“请您将您的手表与我的手表调校，或者允许我用您的手表来调校我的手表？”

‘Which you please, monsieur!’ said the light-horseman, drawing from his fob a very handsome watch, studded with diamonds; ‘half past seven.’
“请您随心所欲，先生！”轻骑兵说道，从他的钥匙扣里取出一块非常漂亮的镶有钻石的手表。 '七点半。'

‘Thirty-five minutes after seven,’ said Athos, ‘by which you perceive I am five minutes faster than you.’
“七点过三十五分钟，”阿多斯说，“你会觉得我比你快了五分钟。”

And bowing to all the astonished persons present, the young men took the road to the bastion St. Gervais, followed by Grimaud, who carried the basket, ignorant of where he was going but in the passive obedience which Athos had taught him not even thinking of asking.
年轻人向在场的所有惊讶的人鞠了一躬，走上通往圣热尔韦堡垒的路，格里莫跟在后面，他提着篮子，不知道自己要去哪里，但在阿多斯教给他的被动服从中，甚至不加思考的询问。

As long as they were within the circle of the camp, the four friends did not exchange one word; besides, they were followed by the curious, who, hearing of the wager, were anxious to know how they would come out of it. But when once they passed the line of circumvallation and found themselves in the open plain, d’Artagnan, who was completely ignorant of what was going forward, thought it was time to demand an explanation.
只要在营地的范围内，四个朋友就没有说过一句话；此外，他们身后还跟着一些好奇的人，他们听到这个赌注，急切地想知道他们会如何结果。但当他们越过包围线并发现自己身处开阔的平原时，对接下来发生的事情一无所知的达达尼昂认为是时候要求一个解释了。

‘And now, my dear Athos,’ said he, ‘do me the kindness to tell me where we are going?’
“现在，亲爱的阿托斯，”他说道，“请您告诉我我们要去哪里？”

‘Why, you see plainly enough we are going to the bastion.’
“哎呀，你看得很清楚，我们要去堡垒了。”

‘But what are we going to do there?’
“但是我们要去那里做什么呢？”

‘You know well that we go to breakfast there.’
“你很清楚我们去那里吃早餐。”

‘But why did we not breakfast at the Parpaillot?’
“但是我们为什么不在帕帕约酒店吃早餐呢？”

‘Because we have very important matters to communicate to one another, and it was impossible to talk five minutes in that inn without being annoyed by all those importunate fellows, who keep coming in, saluting you, and addressing you. Here at least,’ said Athos, pointing to the bastion, ‘they will not come and disturb us.’
“因为我们有非常重要的事情要互相沟通，而且在那家旅馆里不可能谈五分钟而不被那些不断进来、向你致敬、向你讲话的那些纠缠不休的家伙惹恼。至少在这里，”阿托斯指着堡垒说道，“他们不会来打扰我们。”

‘It appears to me,’ said d’Artagnan, with that prudence which allied itself in him so naturally with excessive bravery, ‘that we could have found some retired place on the downs or the seashore.’
“在我看来，”达达尼昂说，他的谨慎与过分的勇敢如此自然地结合在一起，“我们可以在丘陵或海边找到一个僻静的地方。”

‘Where we should have been seen all four conferring together, so that at the end of a quarter of an hour the cardinal would have been informed by his spies that we were holding a council.’
“我们应该看到所有四个人在一起商议，这样在一刻钟结束后，红衣主教就会被他的间谍告知我们正在举行一次会议。”

‘Yes,’ said Aramis, ‘Athos is right: ANIMADVERTUNTUR IN DESERTIS.’
“是的，”阿拉米斯说，“阿多斯是对的：沙漠中的阿尼玛德维尔图恩图尔。”

‘A desert would not have been amiss,’ said Porthos; ‘but it behooved us to find it.’
“沙漠也没什么不好的，”波托斯说。 “但我们有必要找到它。”

‘There is no desert where a bird cannot pass over one’s head, where a fish cannot leap out of the water, where a rabbit cannot come out of its burrow, and I believe that bird, fish, and rabbit each becomes a spy of the cardinal. Better, then, pursue our enterprise; from which, besides, we cannot retreat without shame. We have made a wager—a wager which could not have been foreseen, and of which I defy anyone to divine the true cause. We are going, in order to win it, to remain an hour in the bastion. Either we shall be attacked, or not. If we are not, we shall have all the time to talk, and nobody will hear us—for I guarantee the walls of the bastion have no ears; if we are, we will talk of our affairs just the same. Moreover, in defending ourselves, we shall cover ourselves with glory. You see that everything is to our advantage.’
没有沙漠，鸟不能从头顶飞过，鱼不能跃出水面，兔子不能从洞里出来，我相信鸟、鱼、兔子都成为了大地的间谍。红衣主教。那么，更好的是，追求我们的事业；此外，我们不能无耻地撤退。我们打了一个赌注——一个无法预见的赌注，我不相信任何人都能猜到真正的原因。为了赢得胜利，我们将在堡垒中停留一个小时。我们要么受到攻击，要么不受到攻击。如果我们不这样做，我们就有足够的时间说话，没有人会听到我们的声音——因为我保证堡垒的墙壁没有耳朵；如果是的话，我们也会同样谈论我们的事情。此外，在保卫自己的过程中，我们将为自己披上荣耀。你看，一切都对我们有利。

‘Yes,’ said d’Artagnan; ‘but we shall indubitably attract a ball.’
“是的，”达达尼昂说。 “但我们无疑会吸引一个球。”

‘Well, my dear,’ replied Athos, ‘you know well that the balls most to be dreaded are not from the enemy.’
“好吧，亲爱的，”阿托斯回答道，“你很清楚，最可怕的球不是来自敌人。”

‘But for such an expedition we surely ought to have brought our muskets.’
“但是对于这样的探险，我们当然应该带上我们的步枪。”

‘You are stupid, friend Porthos. Why should we load ourselves with a useless burden?’
“你真是个傻瓜，波托斯朋友。为什么我们要给自己背上无用的负担呢？

‘I don’t find a good musket, twelve cartridges, and a powder flask very useless in the face of an enemy.’
“我没有发现一支好的步枪、十二发子弹和一个火药瓶在面对敌人时毫无用处。”

‘Well,’ replied Athos, ‘have you not heard what d’Artagnan said?’
“好吧，”阿托斯回答道，“你没有听到达达尼昂说的话吗？”

‘What did he say?’ demanded Porthos.
“他说什么？”波托斯问道。

‘d’Artagnan said that in the attack of last night eight or ten Frenchmen were killed, and as many Rochellais.’
“达达尼昂说，在昨晚的袭击中，有八到十名法国人被杀，还有同样多的罗谢莱人。”

‘What then?’
'然后怎样呢？'

‘The bodies were not plundered, were they? It appears the conquerors had something else to do.’
“尸体没有被掠夺，不是吗？看来征服者还有其他事情要做。

‘Well?’
'出色地？'

‘Well, we shall find their muskets, their cartridges, and their flasks; and instead of four musketoons and twelve balls, we shall have fifteen guns and a hundred charges to fire.’
“好吧，我们会找到他们的步枪、弹药筒和烧瓶；我们将用十五把枪和一百个装药来发射，而不是四个步枪和十二个子弹。

‘Oh, Athos!’ said Aramis, ‘truly you are a great man.’
“哦，阿托斯！”阿拉米斯说道，“你确实是一个伟人。”

Porthos nodded in sign of agreement. D’Artagnan alone did not seem convinced.
波尔托斯点头表示同意。达达尼昂似乎并不相信这一点。

Grimaud no doubt shared the misgivings of the young man, for seeing that they continued to advance toward the bastion—something he had till then doubted—he pulled his master by the skirt of his coat.
格里莫毫无疑问和这个年轻人一样担心，因为看到他们继续向堡垒前进——他直到那时才怀疑这一点——他拉住了主人的外套裙边。

‘Where are we going?’ asked he, by a gesture.
“我们要去哪里？”他用手势问。

Athos pointed to the bastion.
阿托斯指着堡垒。

‘But,’ said Grimaud, in the same silent dialect, ‘we shall leave our skins there.’
“但是，”格里莫用同样无声的方言说道，“我们要把我们的皮肤留在那里。”

Athos raised his eyes and his finger toward heaven.
阿多斯抬起眼睛，手指指向天空。

Grimaud put his basket on the ground and sat down with a shake of the head.
格里莫把他的篮子放在地上，摇摇头坐下。

Athos took a pistol from his belt, looked to see if it was properly primed, cocked it, and placed the muzzle close to Grimaud’s ear.
阿多斯从腰带上掏出一把手枪，检查是否已正确上膛，然后扳起扳机，然后将枪口靠近格里莫的耳朵。

Grimaud was on his legs again as if by a spring. Athos then made him a sign to take up his basket and to walk on first. Grimaud obeyed. All that Grimaud gained by this momentary pantomime was to pass from the rear guard to the vanguard.
格里莫又像弹簧一样站了起来。阿多斯示意他拿起篮子，先走。格里莫服从了。格里莫通过这短暂的哑剧所获得的一切，就是从后卫转到前锋。

Arrived at the bastion, the four friends turned round.
到达堡垒后，四个朋友转身。

More than three hundred soldiers of all kinds were assembled at the gate of the camp; and in a separate group might be distinguished M. de Busigny, the dragoon, the Swiss, and the fourth bettor.
营门口聚集了三百多名各类士兵。在一个单独的组中，可能有杰出的德布西尼先生、龙骑兵、瑞士人和第四个赌徒。

Athos took off his hat, placed it on the end of his sword, and waved it in the air.
阿托斯摘下帽子，戴在剑尖上，在空中挥舞起来。

All the spectators returned him his salute, accompanying this courtesy with a loud hurrah which was audible to the four; after which all four disappeared in the bastion, whither Grimaud had preceded them.
所有观众都向他回礼，伴随着这一礼节，四人都听到了大声欢呼。随后，四人都消失在堡垒里，格里莫先于他们到达那里。

47 THE COUNCIL OF THE MUSKETEERS
47 火枪手理事会

As Athos had foreseen, the bastion was only occupied by a dozen corpses, French and Rochellais.
正如阿托斯所预见的那样，这座堡垒里只剩下了法国人和罗切莱人的十几具尸体。

‘Gentlemen,’ said Athos, who had assumed the command of the expedition, ‘while Grimaud spreads the table, let us begin by collecting the guns and cartridges together. We can talk while performing that necessary task. These gentlemen,’ added he, pointing to the bodies, ‘cannot hear us.’
“先生们，”担任探险队指挥的阿托斯说道，“在格里莫铺开桌子的同时，让我们开始收集枪支和子弹。我们可以在执行必要任务的同时进行交谈。他指着尸体补充道，“这些先生们听不到我们的声音。”

‘But we could throw them into the ditch,’ said Porthos, ‘after having assured ourselves they have nothing in their pockets.’
“但我们可以把他们扔进沟里，”波托斯说，“在确保他们口袋里没有东西之后。”

‘Yes,’ said Athos, ‘that’s Grimaud’s business.’
“是的，”阿托斯说，“那是格里莫的事。”

‘Well, then,’ cried d’Artagnan, ‘pray let Grimaud search them and throw them over the walls.’
“好吧，那么，”达达尼昂喊道，“请让格里莫搜查一下，然后把它们扔到墙上去。”

‘Heaven forfend!’ said Athos; ‘they may serve us.’
“上天保佑！”阿托斯说道。 “他们可以为我们服务。”

‘These bodies serve us?’ said Porthos. ‘You are mad, dear friend.’
“这些尸体为我们服务？”波托斯说。 “你疯了，亲爱的朋友。”

‘Judge not rashly, say the gospel and the cardinal,’ replied Athos. ‘How many guns, gentlemen?’
“福音书和红衣主教都说，不要轻率地做出判断。”阿多斯回答道。 “先生们，有多少枪？”

‘Twelve,’ replied Aramis.
“十二个，”阿拉米斯回答。

‘How many shots?’
“开了多少枪？”

‘A hundred.’
'一百。'

‘That’s quite as many as we shall want. Let us load the guns.’
“这已经是我们想要的那么多了。”让我们给枪上子弹吧。

The four Musketeers went to work; and as they were loading the last musket Grimaud announced that the breakfast was ready.
四个火枪手开始工作；当他们给最后一支步枪装弹时，格里莫宣布早餐准备好了。

Athos replied, always by gestures, that that was well, and indicated to Grimaud, by pointing to a turret that resembled a pepper caster, that he was to stand as sentinel. Only, to alleviate the tediousness of the duty, Athos allowed him to take a loaf, two cutlets, and a bottle of wine.
阿多斯总是用手势回答说，那就好，并指向格里莫，指着一座类似胡椒施法器的炮塔，表示他将担任哨兵。只是，为了减轻这项繁琐的职责，阿多斯允许他拿一条面包、两块肉排和一瓶酒。

‘And now to table,’ said Athos.
“现在上桌吧，”阿托斯说道。

The four friends seated themselves on the ground with their legs crossed like Turks, or even tailors.
四个朋友盘腿坐在地上，像土耳其人，甚至像裁缝。

‘And now,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘as there is no longer any fear of being overheard, I hope you are going to let me into your secret.’
“现在，”达达尼昂说道，“既然不再担心被人偷听，我希望你能让我知道你的秘密。”

‘I hope at the same time to procure you amusement and glory, gentlemen,’ said Athos. ‘I have induced you to take a charming promenade; here is a delicious breakfast; and yonder are five hundred persons, as you may see through the loopholes, taking us for heroes or madmen—two classes of imbeciles greatly resembling each other.’
“先生们，我希望同时能给你们带来乐趣和荣耀，”阿托斯说道。 “我引诱你去散步；这里有美味的早餐；那边有五百人，正如你从漏洞中看到的那样，他们把我们当作英雄或疯子——两类极其相似的白痴。

‘But the secret!’ said d’Artagnan.
“但是秘密！”达达尼昂说。

‘The secret is,’ said Athos, ‘that I saw Milady last night.’
“秘密是，”阿托斯说，“我昨晚见到了米莱迪。”

D’Artagnan was lifting a glass to his lips; but at the name of Milady, his hand trembled so, that he was obliged to put the glass on the ground again for fear of spilling the contents.’
达达尼昂正把一杯酒举到唇边。但一听到米莱迪的名字，他的手就抖得厉害，不得不把玻璃杯重新放在地上，生怕里面的东西洒出来。

‘You saw your wi—‘
“你看到了你的无线——”

‘Hush!’ interrupted Athos. ‘You forget, my dear, you forget that these gentlemen are not initiated into my family affairs like yourself. I have seen Milady.’
“嘘！”阿托斯打断道。 “你忘记了，亲爱的，你忘记了这些先生们并不像你一样主动参与我的家庭事务。我见过米莱迪。

‘Where?’ demanded d’Artagnan.
“去哪儿？”达达尼昂问道。

‘Within two leagues of this place, at the inn of the Red Dovecot.’
“距此地两里格内，红鸽舍客栈。”

‘In that case I am lost,’ said d’Artagnan.
“那样的话我就迷路了，”达达尼昂说。

‘Not so bad yet,’ replied Athos; ‘for by this time she must have quit the shores of France.’
“还不错，”阿托斯回答道。 “因为此时她一定已经离开了法国海岸。”

D’Artagnan breathed again.
达达尼昂再次呼吸。

‘But after all,’ asked Porthos, ‘who is Milady?’
“但毕竟，”波托斯问道，“米莱迪是谁？”

‘A charming woman!’ said Athos, sipping a glass of sparkling wine. ‘Villainous host!’ cried he, ‘he has given us Anjou wine instead of champagne, and fancies we know no better! Yes,’ continued he, ‘a charming woman, who entertained kind views toward our friend d’Artagnan, who, on his part, has given her some offense for which she tried to revenge herself a month ago by having him killed by two musket shots, a week ago by trying to poison him, and yesterday by demanding his head of the cardinal.’
“一个迷人的女人！”阿托斯一边说，一边喝着一杯起泡酒。 “邪恶的主人！”他喊道，“他给了我们安茹葡萄酒而不是香槟，我们根本不知道他的幻想！是的，”他继续说道，“一位迷人的女人，对我们的朋友达达尼昂抱有善意，达达尼昂则冒犯了她，一个月前她试图报复，用两支步枪杀死了他一周前，他试图毒死他；昨天，他要求砍下红衣主教的头。”

‘What! by demanding my head of the cardinal?’ cried d’Artagnan, pale with terror.
'什么！想要砍下我的红衣主教的头？”达达尼昂喊道，脸色吓得苍白。

‘Yes, that is true as the Gospel,’ said Porthos; ‘I heard her with my own ears.’
“是的，这确实是福音，”波托斯说。 “我亲耳听到了她的声音。”

‘I also,’ said Aramis.
“我也一样，”阿拉米斯说。

‘Then,’ said d’Artagnan, letting his arm fall with discouragement, ‘it is useless to struggle longer. I may as well blow my brains out, and all will be over.’
“那么，”达达尼昂沮丧地垂下手臂，说道，“再挣扎也是没有用的。”我还不如把我的脑子打爆，一切都会结束。

‘That’s the last folly to be committed,’ said Athos, ‘seeing it is the only one for which there is no remedy.’
“这是最后的愚蠢行为，”阿托斯说，“因为这是唯一无法补救的愚蠢行为。”

‘But I can never escape,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘with such enemies. First, my stranger of Meung; then de Wardes, to whom I have given three sword wounds; next Milady, whose secret I have discovered; finally, the cardinal, whose vengeance I have balked.’
“但面对这样的敌人，我永远无法逃脱，”达达尼昂说道。首先是我的陌生人 Meung；然后是德瓦尔德斯，我给他造成了三处剑伤；接下来是米莱迪，我发现了她的秘密；最后是红衣主教，我阻止了他的复仇。

‘Well,’ said Athos, ‘that only makes four; and we are four—one for one. Pardieu! if we may believe the signs Grimaud is making, we are about to have to do with a very different number of people. What is it, Grimaud? Considering the gravity of the occasion, I permit you to speak, my friend; but be laconic, I beg. What do you see?’
“好吧，”阿托斯说，“那只有四个；我们是四个人——一对一。帕迪厄！如果我们相信格里莫所做出的迹象，我们将要面对数量截然不同的人。格里莫，什么事？考虑到场合的严重性，我允许你发言，我的朋友；但请简洁一点。你看到了什么？'

‘A troop.’
“一支部队。”

‘Of how many persons?’
“有多少人？”

‘Twenty men.’
“二十个人。”

‘What sort of men?’
“什么样的人？”

‘Sixteen pioneers, four soldiers.’
“十六名先锋，四名士兵。”

‘How far distant?’
“有多远？”

‘Five hundred paces.’
“五百步。”

‘Good! We have just time to finish this fowl and to drink one glass of wine to your health, d’Artagnan.’
'好的！我们正好有时间吃完这只鸡，并为您的健康喝一杯酒，达达尼昂。”

‘To your health!’ repeated Porthos and Aramis.
“为了你们的健康！”波尔托斯和阿拉米斯重复道。

‘Well, then, to my health! although I am very much afraid that your good wishes will not be of great service to me.’
“那么，为了我的健康！虽然我很担心你的良好祝愿对我没有多大帮助。”

‘Bah!’ said Athos, ‘God is great, as say the followers of Mohammed, and the future is in his hands.’
“呸！”阿托斯说道，“正如穆罕默德的追随者所说，上帝是伟大的，未来掌握在他的手中。”

Then, swallowing the contents of his glass, which he put down close to him, Athos arose carelessly, took the musket next to him, and drew near to one of the loopholes.
然后，阿多斯把杯子里的东西放在身边，吞了下去，漫不经心地起身，拿起旁边的步枪，靠近了一个枪口。

Porthos, Aramis and d’Artagnan followed his example. As to Grimaud, he received orders to place himself behind the four friends in order to reload their weapons.
波尔托斯、阿拉米斯和达达尼昂效仿了他的榜样。至于格里莫，他接到命令站在四个朋友身后，以便给他们的武器重新装弹。

‘Pardieu!’ said Athos, ‘it was hardly worth while to distribute ourselves for twenty fellows armed with pickaxes, mattocks, and shovels. Grimaud had only to make them a sign to go away, and I am convinced they would have left us in peace.’
“帕迪厄！”阿托斯说道，“我们根本不值得为二十个拿着鹤嘴锄、鹤嘴锄和铁锹的家伙分配自己。格里莫只需向他们示意离开，我相信他们就会让我们平静地离开。

‘I doubt that,’ replied d’Artagnan, ‘for they are advancing very resolutely. Besides, in addition to the pioneers, there are four soldiers and a brigadier, armed with muskets.’
“我对此表示怀疑，”达达尼昂回答说，“因为他们正在非常坚决地前进。此外，除了先锋队之外，还有四名士兵和一名准将，手持步枪。

‘That’s because they don’t see us,’ said Athos.
“那是因为他们看不到我们，”阿托斯说。

‘My faith,’ said Aramis, ‘I must confess I feel a great repugnance to fire on these poor devils of civilians.’
“我的信仰，”阿拉米斯说，“我必须承认，我非常厌恶向这些可怜的平民开枪。”

‘He is a bad priest,’ said Porthos, ‘who has pity for heretics.’
“他是个糟糕的牧师，”波托斯说，“他对异教徒表示同情。”

‘In truth,’ said Athos, ‘Aramis is right. I will warn them.’
“事实上，”阿托斯说，“阿拉米斯是对的。我会警告他们。

‘What the devil are you going to do?’ cried d’Artagnan, ‘you will be shot.’
“你到底想做什么？”达达尼昂喊道，“你会被枪杀的。”

But Athos heeded not his advice. Mounting on the breach, with his musket in one hand and his hat in the other, he said, bowing courteously and addressing the soldiers and the pioneers, who, astonished at this apparition, stopped fifty paces from the bastion: ‘Gentlemen, a few friends and myself are about to breakfast in this bastion. Now, you know nothing is more disagreeable than being disturbed when one is at breakfast. We request you, then, if you really have business here, to wait till we have finished or repast, or to come again a short time hence, unless; unless, which would be far better, you form the salutary resolution to quit the side of the rebels, and come and drink with us to the health of the King of France.’
但阿多斯没有听从他的建议。他一手拿着步枪，另一只手拿着帽子，登上突破口，礼貌地鞠了一躬，向士兵和先锋们讲话，他们对这个幽灵感到惊讶，在距离堡垒五十步远的地方停下来：“先生们，有几个我和朋友们正准备在这个堡垒里吃早餐。现在，你知道没有什么比吃早餐时受到打扰更令人不快的了。那么，如果您确实在这里有事，请等到我们吃完或吃完饭后，或者稍后再来，除非；除非你下定决心，退出叛乱分子一边，来和我们一起为法国国王的健康干杯，这样会好得多。”

‘Take care, Athos!’ cried d’Artagnan; ‘don’t you see they are aiming?’
“保重，阿托斯！”达达尼昂喊道。 “你没看到他们正在瞄准吗？”

‘Yes, yes,’ said Athos; ‘but they are only civilians—very bad marksmen, who will be sure not to hit me.’
“是的，是的，”阿托斯说。 “但他们只是平民——非常糟糕的射手，他们肯定不会打到我。”

In fact, at the same instant four shots were fired, and the balls were flattened against the wall around Athos, but not one touched him.
事实上，在同一瞬间开了四枪，球被压扁在阿托斯周围的墙上，但没有一颗碰到他。

Four shots replied to them almost instantaneously, but much better aimed than those of the aggressors; three soldiers fell dead, and one of the pioneers was wounded.
四枪几乎立即回应了他们，但比侵略者的瞄准要好得多；三名士兵倒地身亡，其中一名先锋受伤。

‘Grimaud,’ said Athos, still on the breach, ‘another musket!’
“格里莫，”阿多斯仍在突破口说道，“另一支步枪！”

Grimaud immediately obeyed. On their part, the three friends had reloaded their arms; a second discharge followed the first. The brigadier and two pioneers fell dead; the rest of the troop took to flight.
格里莫立刻服从了。就他们而言，三个朋友已经重新装弹了。第一次放电后又进行了第二次放电。准将和两名先锋倒地身亡。其余的部队纷纷逃跑。

‘Now, gentlemen, a sortie!’ cried Athos.
“现在，先生们，出击吧！”阿托斯喊道。

And the four friends rushed out of the fort, gained the field of battle, picked up the four muskets of the privates and the half-pike of the brigadier, and convinced that the fugitives would not stop till they reached the city, turned again toward the bastion, bearing with them the trophies of their victory.
四个朋友冲出了堡垒，占领了战场，拿起二等兵的四支步枪和准将的半长矛，确信逃亡者不到达城市不会停下来，再次转向堡垒，带着他们胜利的奖杯。

‘Reload the muskets, Grimaud,’ said Athos, ‘and we, gentlemen, will go on with our breakfast, and resume our conversation. Where were we?’
“给步枪重新装弹，格里莫，”阿多斯说，“先生们，我们将继续吃早餐，然后继续我们的谈话。我们刚刚说到哪了？'

‘I recollect you were saying,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘that after having demanded my head of the cardinal, Milady had quit the shores of France. Whither goes she?’ added he, strongly interested in the route Milady followed.
“我记得你说过，”达达尼昂说，“在索要我的红衣主教的人头后，米莱迪就离开了法国海岸。她去哪儿了？”他补充道，对米莱迪所走的路线非常感兴趣。

‘She goes into England,’ said Athos.
“她去了英国，”阿托斯说。

‘With what view?’
“什么观点？”

‘With the view of assassinating, or causing to be assassinated, the Duke of Buckingham.’
“意图暗杀或导致白金汉公爵被暗杀。”

D’Artagnan uttered an exclamation of surprise and indignation.
达达尼昂发出了一声既惊讶又愤怒的感叹。

‘But this is infamous!’ cried he.
“但是这是臭名昭著的！”他喊道。

‘As to that,’ said Athos, ‘I beg you to believe that I care very little about it. Now you have done, Grimaud, take our brigadier’s half-pike, tie a napkin to it, and plant it on top of our bastion, that these rebels of Rochellais may see that they have to deal with brave and loyal soldiers of the king.’
“至于这一点，”阿托斯说道，“我请求你相信我对此并不关心。现在你已经完成了，格里莫，拿起我们准将的半长矛，在上面系上餐巾，然后把它放在我们的堡垒顶部，这样罗谢莱的叛乱分子就会看到他们必须对付勇敢而忠诚的国王士兵。 '

Grimaud obeyed without replying. An instant afterward, the white flag was floating over the heads of the four friends. A thunder of applause saluted its appearance; half the camp was at the barrier.
格里莫服从了，没有回答。片刻之后，白旗就飘到了四位朋友的头顶上。雷鸣般的掌声迎接它的出现。一半的营地都在屏障处。

‘How?’ replied d’Artagnan, ‘you care little if she kills Buckingham or causes him to be killed? But the duke is our friend.’
“怎么办？”达达尼昂回答道，“你不在乎她是否杀死了白金汉或者导致他被杀？但公爵是我们的朋友。”

‘The duke is English; the duke fights against us. Let her do what she likes with the duke; I care no more about him than an empty bottle.’ And Athos threw fifteen paces from him an empty bottle from which he had poured the last drop into his glass.
“公爵是英国人；公爵与我们作战。让她为公爵做她喜欢做的事吧；我对他的关心就如同对一个空瓶子的关心一样。”阿托斯把一个空瓶子扔到离他十五步远的地方，他已经把最后一滴酒倒进了他的杯子里。

‘A moment,’ said d’Artagnan. ‘I will not abandon Buckingham thus. He gave us some very fine horses.’
“等一下，”达达尼昂说。 “我不会因此放弃白金汉。他给了我们一些非常好的马。”

‘And moreover, very handsome saddles,’ said Porthos, who at the moment wore on his cloak the lace of his own.
“而且，还有非常漂亮的马鞍，”波托斯说道，此时他的斗篷上穿着他自己的蕾丝。

‘Besides,’ said Aramis, ‘God desires the conversion and not the death of a sinner.’
“此外，”阿拉米斯说，“上帝希望罪人悔改，而不是死亡。”

‘Amen!’ said Athos, ‘and we will return to that subject later, if such be your pleasure; but what for the moment engaged my attention most earnestly, and I am sure you will understand me, d’Artagnan, was the getting from this woman a kind of carte blanche which she had extorted from the cardinal, and by means of which she could with impunity get rid of you and perhaps of us.’
“阿门！”阿托斯说道，“如果您愿意的话，我们稍后再回到这个话题；但目前最引起我注意的是，达达尼昂，我相信你会理解我的，是从这个女人那里得到一种她从红衣主教那里勒索的全权委托，通过这种全权委托，她可以摆脱你，也许还有我们，而不受惩罚。

‘But this creature must be a demon!’ said Porthos, holding out his plate to Aramis, who was cutting up a fowl.
“但是这个生物一定是恶魔！”波托斯一边说，一边把盘子递给正在切鸡的阿拉米斯。

‘And this carte blanche,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘this carte blanche, does it remain in her hands?’
“那么这个全权委托，”达达尼昂说，“这个全权委托，它还留在她手里吗？”

‘No, it passed into mine; I will not say without trouble, for if I did I should tell a lie.’
‘不，它进入了我的；我不会毫无麻烦地说出来，因为如果我这样做了，我就会撒谎。

‘My dear Athos, I shall no longer count the number of times I am indebted to you for my life.’
“我亲爱的阿托斯，我将不再数算我一生中欠你多少次。”

‘Then it was to go to her that you left us?’ said Aramis.
“那么你离开我们就是为了去找她吗？”阿拉米斯说。

‘Exactly.’
'确切地。'

‘And you have that letter of the cardinal?’ said d’Artagnan.
“你有红衣主教的那封信吗？”达达尼昂问道。

‘Here it is,’ said Athos; and he took the invaluable paper from the pocket of his uniform. D’Artagnan unfolded it with one hand, whose trembling he did not even attempt to conceal, to read:
“就是这里，”阿托斯说。他从制服口袋里拿出了那张无价的文件。达达尼昂用一只手展开它，他甚至没有试图掩盖他的颤抖，读到：

Dec. 3, 1627
1627 年 12 月 3 日

It is by my order and for the good of the state that the bearer of this has done what he has done.
这是我的命令，也是为了国家的利益，这个命令的持有者做了他所做的事情。

‘Richelieu”
‘黎塞留’

‘In fact,’ said Aramis, ‘it is an absolution according to rule.’
“事实上，”阿拉米斯说，“这是根据规则的赦免。”

‘That paper must be torn to pieces,’ said d’Artagnan, who fancied he read in it his sentence of death.
“那张纸必须撕成碎片，”达达尼昂说道，他想象着自己在上面读到了死刑判决。

‘On the contrary,’ said Athos, ‘it must be preserved carefully. I would not give up this paper if covered with as many gold pieces.’
“恰恰相反，”阿托斯说，“它必须小心保存。”如果这张纸上有那么多金币，我也不会放弃。”

‘And what will she do now?’ asked the young man.
“那她现在要做什么？”年轻人问道。

‘Why,’ replied Athos, carelessly, ‘she is probably going to write to the cardinal that a damned Musketeer, named Athos, has taken her safe-conduct from her by force; she will advise him in the same letter to get rid of his two friends, Aramis and Porthos, at the same time. The cardinal will remember that these are the same men who have often crossed his path; and then some fine morning he will arrest d’Artagnan, and for fear he should feel lonely, he will send us to keep him company in the Bastille.’
“为什么，”阿多斯漫不经心地回答道，“她可能会写信给红衣主教，说一个名叫阿多斯的该死的火枪手强行夺走了她的安全通行证；她将在同一封信中建议他同时摆脱他的两个朋友阿拉米斯和波托斯。红衣主教会记住，这些人经常在他的道路上遇到。然后某个晴朗的早晨，他会逮捕达达尼昂，因为担心他会感到孤独，他会派我们去巴士底狱陪伴他。

‘Go to! It appears to me you make dull jokes, my dear,’ said Porthos.
'去！在我看来，亲爱的，你开了一些无聊的玩笑。”波托斯说道。

‘I do not jest,’ said Athos.
“我没有开玩笑，”阿托斯说。

‘Do you know,’ said Porthos, ‘that to twist that damned Milady’s neck would be a smaller sin than to twist those of these poor devils of Huguenots, who have committed no other crime than singing in French the psalms we sing in Latin?’
“你知道吗，”波尔托斯说，“扭断那该死的米莱迪的脖子比扭断胡格诺派这些可怜的魔鬼的罪孽更小，他们除了用法语唱我们用拉丁语唱的诗篇外，没有犯过任何其他罪行？ '

‘What says the abbe?’ asked Athos, quietly.
“神甫怎么说？”阿托斯轻声问道。

‘I say I am entirely of Porthos’s opinion,’ replied Aramis.
“我说我完全同意波托斯的观点，”阿拉米斯回答道。

‘And I, too,’ said d’Artagnan.
“我也是，”达达尼昂说。

‘Fortunately, she is far off,’ said Porthos, ‘for I confess she would worry me if she were here.’
“幸运的是，她离得很远，”波托斯说，“因为我承认，如果她在这里的话，我会担心的。”

‘She worries me in England as well as in France,’ said Athos.
“她让我在英国和法国都很担心，”阿托斯说。

‘She worries me everywhere,’ said d’Artagnan.
“她处处让我担心，”达达尼昂说。

‘But when you held her in your power, why did you not drown her, strangle her, hang her?’ said Porthos. ‘It is only the dead who do not return.’
“但是当你掌控她时，为什么不淹死她、勒死她、绞死她呢？”波尔托斯说道。 “只有死人不会回来。”

‘You think so, Porthos?’ replied the Musketeer, with a sad smile which d’Artagnan alone understood.
“你这么认为，波托斯？”火枪手回答道，脸上带着只有达达尼昂能理解的悲伤微笑。

‘I have an idea,’ said d’Artagnan.
“我有一个主意，”达达尼昂说。

‘What is it?’ said the Musketeers.
“这是什么？”火枪手们问道。

‘To arms!’ cried Grimaud.
“拿起武器！”格里莫喊道。

The young men sprang up, and seized their muskets.
年轻人跳了起来，抓起火枪。

This time a small troop advanced, consisting of from twenty to twenty-five men; but they were not pioneers, they were soldiers of the garrison.
这次是一小队人马前进，人数从二十到二十五人不等。但他们不是先锋，他们是驻军的士兵。

‘Shall we return to the camp?’ said Porthos. ‘I don’t think the sides are equal.’
“我们要回营地吗？”波托斯问道。 “我不认为双方是平等的。”

‘Impossible, for three reasons,’ replied Athos. ‘The first, that we have not finished breakfast; the second, that we still have some very important things to say; and the third, that it yet wants ten minutes before the lapse of the hour.’
“不可能，有三个原因。”阿托斯回答道。 ‘第一，我们还没吃完早餐；第二，我们还有一些非常重要的事情要说；第三，距离时间结束还需要十分钟。

‘Well, then,’ said Aramis, ‘we must form a plan of battle.’
“那么，”阿拉米斯说，“我们必须制定一个作战计划。”

‘That’s very simple,’ replied Athos. ‘As soon as the enemy are within musket shot, we must fire upon them. If they continue to advance, we must fire again. We must fire as long as we have loaded guns. If those who remain of the troop persist in coming to the assault, we will allow the besiegers to get as far as the ditch, and then we will push down upon their heads that strip of wall which keeps its perpendicular by a miracle.’
“这很简单，”阿托斯回答道。 “一旦敌人进入步枪射击范围，我们就必须向他们开火。如果他们继续前进，我们就必须再次开火。只要我们的枪已经上膛，我们就必须开火。如果剩下的部队坚持进攻，我们将允许围攻者一直到达壕沟，然后我们将奇迹般地将那条保持垂直的墙推到他们的头上。

‘Bravo!’ cried Porthos. ‘Decidedly, Athos, you were born to be a general, and the cardinal, who fancies himself a great soldier, is nothing beside you.’
“太棒了！”波尔托斯喊道。 “毫无疑问，阿托斯，你生来就是一名将军，而自诩为伟大士兵的红衣主教在你面前根本算不上什么。”

‘Gentlemen,’ said Athos, ‘no divided attention, I beg; let each one pick out his man.’
“先生们，”阿多斯说，“请大家不要分散注意力；让每个人选出自己的人选。

‘I cover mine,’ said d’Artagnan.
“我掩护我的，”达达尼昂说。

‘And I mine,’ said Porthos.
“我也是我的，”波托斯说。

‘And I mine,’ said Aramis.
“我也是我的，”阿拉米斯说。

‘Fire, then,’ said Athos.
“那就着火吧，”阿托斯说道。

The four muskets made but one report, but four men fell.
四支步枪只发出一声响响，却有四人倒下。

The drum immediately beat, and the little troop advanced at charging pace.
鼓声立刻响起，小队人马疾驰而去。

Then the shots were repeated without regularity, but always aimed with the same accuracy. Nevertheless, as if they had been aware of the numerical weakness of the friends, the Rochellais continued to advance in quick time.
然后，无规律地重复射击，但总是以相同的精度瞄准。尽管如此，罗谢莱人似乎已经意识到了友军人数上的弱点，他们继续快速推进。

With every three shots at least two men fell; but the march of those who remained was not slackened.
每三枪，至少有两人倒下；但留下来的人并没有放缓脚步。

Arrived at the foot of the bastion, there were still more than a dozen of the enemy. A last discharge welcomed them, but did not stop them; they jumped into the ditch, and prepared to scale the breach.
到了堡垒脚下，敌人还有十几人。最后一次退伍欢迎他们，但并没有阻止他们。他们跳进沟里，准备翻越缺口。

‘Now, my friends,’ said Athos, ‘finish them at a blow. To the wall; to the wall!’
“现在，我的朋友们，”阿多斯说，“一下子解决掉他们。”到墙上；到墙上！’

And the four friends, seconded by Grimaud, pushed with the barrels of their muskets an enormous sheet of the wall, which bent as if pushed by the wind, and detaching itself from its base, fell with a horrible crash into the ditch. Then a fearful crash was heard; a cloud of dust mounted toward the sky—and all was over!
四个朋友在格里莫的协助下，用步枪的枪管推动了一块巨大的墙，墙就像被风吹动一样弯曲，从底部脱落，可怕地摔进了沟里。然后传来可怕的撞击声。一团尘埃向天空升起——一切都结束了！

‘Can we have destroyed them all, from the first to the last?’ said Athos.
“我们能把它们从头到尾全部消灭掉吗？”阿托斯说道。

‘My faith, it appears so!’ said d’Artagnan.
“我的信仰，看来是这样！”达达尼昂说道。

‘No,’ cried Porthos; ‘there go three or four, limping away.’
“不，”波托斯喊道。 “有三四个人一瘸一拐地走了。”

In fact, three or four of these unfortunate men, covered with dirt and blood, fled along the hollow way, and at length regained the city. These were all who were left of the little troop.
事实上，这些不幸的人中有三四个浑身是泥和血，沿着空旷的道路逃走，最终重新夺回了这座城市。这些都是小部队里剩下的人了。

Athos looked at his watch.
阿托斯看了看手表。

‘Gentlemen,’ said he, ‘we have been here an hour, and our wager is won; but we will be fair players. Besides, d’Artagnan has not told us his idea yet.’
“先生们，”他说，“我们已经在这里待了一个小时了，我们的赌注赢了；但我们会成为公平的参与者。再说了，达达尼昂还没有告诉我们他的想法。”

And the Musketeer, with his usual coolness, reseated himself before the remains of the breakfast.
火枪手一如往常的冷静，在剩下的早餐前重新坐了下来。

‘My idea?’ said d’Artagnan.
“我的主意？”达达尼昂说。

‘Yes; you said you had an idea,’ said Athos.
'是的;你说你有一个主意，”阿托斯说。

‘Oh, I remember,’ said d’Artagnan. ‘Well, I will go to England a second time; I will go and find Buckingham.’
“哦，我记得了，”达达尼昂说。 “好吧，我会第二次去英国；我会去找白金汉。

‘You shall not do that, d’Artagnan,’ said Athos, coolly.
“你不可以那样做，达达尼昂，”阿多斯冷冷地说。

‘And why not? Have I not been there once?’
'那么为何不？我没去过那里一次吗？

‘Yes; but at that period we were not at war. At that period Buckingham was an ally, and not an enemy. What you would now do amounts to treason.’
'是的;但当时我们并没有处于战争状态。当时白金汉是盟友，而不是敌人。你现在所做的事就等于叛国罪。”

D’Artagnan perceived the force of this reasoning, and was silent.
达达尼昂察觉到了这个推理的力量，于是沉默了。

‘But,’ said Porthos, ‘I think I have an idea, in my turn.’
“但是，”波托斯说，“我想我有一个主意，轮到我了。”

‘Silence for Monsieur Porthos’s idea!’ said Aramis.
“对波尔托斯先生的想法保持沉默！”阿拉米斯说。

‘I will ask leave of absence of Monsieur de Treville, on some pretext or other which you must invent; I am not very clever at pretexts. Milady does not know me; I will get access to her without her suspecting me, and when I catch my beauty, I will strangle her.’
“我会请德·特雷维尔先生请假，以某种你必须发明的借口；我不太擅长找借口。米莱迪不认识我；我会在她不怀疑我的情况下接近她，当我发现我的美貌时，我会掐死她。

‘Well,’ replied Athos, ‘I am not far from approving the idea of Monsieur Porthos.’
“好吧，”阿托斯回答道，“我离赞同波尔托斯先生的想法不远了。”

‘For shame!’ said Aramis. ‘Kill a woman? No, listen to me; I have the true idea.’
“真丢脸！”阿拉米斯说。 ‘杀女人？不，听我说；我有真正的想法。

‘Let us see your idea, Aramis,’ said Athos, who felt much deference for the young Musketeer.
“让我们看看你的想法，阿拉米斯，”阿托斯说道，他对这位年轻的火枪手非常尊敬。

‘We must inform the queen.’
“我们必须通知女王。”

‘Ah, my faith, yes!’ said Porthos and d’Artagnan, at the same time; ‘we are coming nearer to it now.’
“啊，我的信仰，是的！”波尔托斯和达达尼昂同时说道。 “我们现在离它越来越近了。”

‘Inform the queen!’ said Athos; ‘and how? Have we relations with the court? Could we send anyone to Paris without its being known in the camp? From here to Paris it is a hundred and forty leagues; before our letter was at Angers we should be in a dungeon.’
“通知王后！”阿托斯说道。 '如何？我们和法院有关系吗？我们可以派人去巴黎而不让难民营里知道吗？从这里到巴黎有一百四十里。在我们的信到达昂热之前，我们应该在地牢里。

‘As to remitting a letter with safety to her Majesty,’ said Aramis, coloring, ‘I will take that upon myself. I know a clever person at Tours—‘
“至于安全地向女王陛下寄一封信，”阿拉米斯脸色红润地说，“我会亲自承担这件事。”我在图尔认识一个聪明人——”

Aramis stopped on seeing Athos smile.
看到阿托斯微笑，阿拉米斯停了下来。

‘Well, do you not adopt this means, Athos?’ said d’Artagnan.
“那么，阿多斯，你不采取这个办法吗？”达达尼昂说。

‘I do not reject it altogether,’ said Athos; ‘but I wish to remind Aramis that he cannot quit the camp, and that nobody but one of ourselves is trustworthy; that two hours after the messenger has set out, all the Capuchins, all the police, all the black caps of the cardinal, will know your letter by heart, and you and your clever person will be arrested.’
“我并不完全拒绝它，”阿托斯说。 “但我想提醒阿拉米斯，他不能离开营地，除了我们中的一个人之外，没有人值得信任；信使出发后两小时，所有嘉布遣会、所有警察、所有戴黑帽子的红衣主教都会背出你的信，你和你的聪明人就会被捕。

‘Without reckoning,’ objected Porthos, ‘that the queen would save Monsieur de Buckingham, but would take no heed of us.’
“没想到，”波托斯反对道，“女王会拯救白金汉先生，却不会理睬我们。”

‘Gentlemen,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘what Porthos says is full of sense.’
“先生们，”达达尼昂说道，“波托斯所说的很有道理。”

‘Ah, ah! but what’s going on in the city yonder?’ said Athos.
'啊啊！但那边的城市发生了什么事呢？”阿托斯问道。

‘They are beating the general alarm.’
“他们正在敲响普遍的警报。”

The four friends listened, and the sound of the drum plainly reached them.
四友侧耳而听，鼓声清晰地传到了他们的耳中。

‘You see, they are going to send a whole regiment against us,’ said Athos.
“你看，他们会派出一整个团来对付我们，”阿托斯说。

‘You don’t think of holding out against a whole regiment, do you?’ said Porthos.
“你不会想对抗整个团吧？”波托斯说。

‘Why not?’ said Musketeer. ‘I feel myself quite in a humor for it; and I would hold out before an army if we had taken the precaution to bring a dozen more bottles of wine.’
“为什么不呢？”火枪手说。 “我觉得自己对此很感兴趣；如果我们采取预防措施，多带十几瓶酒，我会在军队面前坚持下去。

‘Upon my word, the drum draws near,’ said d’Artagnan.
“据我所知，鼓声已经临近了，”达达尼昂说道。

‘Let it come,’ said Athos. ‘It is a quarter of an hour’s journey from here to the city, consequently a quarter of an hour’s journey from the city to hither. That is more than time enough for us to devise a plan. If we go from this place we shall never find another so suitable. Ah, stop! I have it, gentlemen; the right idea has just occurred to me.’
“让它来吧，”阿托斯说。 “从这里到城市有一刻钟的路程，因此从城市到这里也有一刻钟的路程。”这时间足够我们制定计划了。如果我们离开这个地方，我们将永远找不到另一个如此合适的地方。啊，停下来！我已经拿到了，先生们；我刚刚想到了正确的想法。

‘Tell us.’
'告诉我们。'

‘Allow me to give Grimaud some indispensable orders.’
“请允许我给格里莫一些必要的命令。”

Athos made a sign for his lackey to approach.
阿多斯做了个手势，示意他的仆人靠近。

‘Grimaud,’ said Athos, pointing to the bodies which lay under the wall of the bastion, ‘take those gentlemen, set them up against the wall, put their hats upon their heads, and their guns in their hands.’
“格里莫，”阿多斯指着堡垒墙下的尸体说道，“把那些先生们带上墙，把帽子戴在头上，手里拿着枪。”

‘Oh, the great man!’ cried d’Artagnan. ‘I comprehend now.’
“哦，伟大的人！”达达尼昂喊道。 “我现在明白了。”

‘You comprehend?’ said Porthos.
“你明白了吗？”波托斯说。

‘And do you comprehend, Grimaud?’ said Aramis.
“你明白吗，格里莫？”阿拉米斯说。

Grimaud made a sign in the affirmative.
格里莫做了一个表示肯定的手势。

‘That’s all that is necessary,’ said Athos; ‘now for my idea.’
“这就是所需要的一切，”阿托斯说。 “现在谈谈我的想法。”

‘I should like, however, to comprehend,’ said Porthos.
“然而，我想理解，”波托斯说。

‘That is useless.’
“那是没用的。”

‘Yes, yes! Athos’s idea!’ cried Aramis and d’Artagnan, at the same time.
'是的是的！阿多斯的主意！”阿拉米斯和达达尼昂同时喊道。

‘This Milady, this woman, this creature, this demon, has a brother-in-law, as I think you told me, d’Artagnan?’
“这个夫人，这个女人，这个生物，这个恶魔，有一个妹夫，我想你是这么告诉我的，达达尼昂？”

‘Yes, I know him very well; and I also believe that he has not a very warm affection for his sister-in-law.’
“是的，我很了解他；我也相信他对他嫂子的感情不是很热烈。

‘There is no harm in that. If he detested her, it would be all the better,’ replied Athos.
‘这并没有什么害处。如果他讨厌她，那就更好了。”阿托斯回答道。

‘In that case we are as well off as we wish.’
“那样的话，我们就如我们所愿了。”

‘And yet,’ said Porthos, ‘I would like to know what Grimaud is about.’
“然而，”波尔托斯说，“我想知道格里莫是关于什么的。”

‘Silence, Porthos!’ said Aramis.
“安静，波托斯！”阿拉米斯说道。

‘What is her brother-in-law’s name?’
“她姐夫叫什么名字？”

‘Lord de Winter.’
“德温特勋爵。”

‘Where is he now?’
'他现在在哪儿？'

‘He returned to London at the first sound of war.’
“战争一响，他就回到了伦敦。”

‘Well, there’s just the man we want,’ said Athos. ‘It is he whom we must warn. We will have him informed that his sister-in-law is on the point of having someone assassinated, and beg him not to lose sight of her. There is in London, I hope, some establishment like that of the Magdalens, or of the Repentant Daughters. He must place his sister in one of these, and we shall be in peace.’
“好吧，这就是我们想要的人，”阿托斯说。 ‘我们必须警告的是他。我们会通知他，他的嫂子即将有人被暗杀，并恳求他不要失去她。我希望伦敦有一些像马格达伦姐妹或悔改之女那样的机构。他必须把他的妹妹安置在其中之一，我们就能安心了。”

‘Yes,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘till she comes out.’
“是的，”达达尼昂说，“直到她出来。”

‘Ah, my faith!’ said Athos, ‘you require too much, d’Artagnan. I have given you all I have, and I beg leave to tell you that this is the bottom of my sack.’
“啊，我的信仰！”阿托斯说，“你要求太多了，达达尼昂。我已经给了你我所拥有的一切，请允许我告诉你，这是我的全部。

‘But I think it would be still better,’ said Aramis, ‘to inform the queen and Lord de Winter at the same time.’
“但我认为最好同时通知王后和德温特勋爵，”阿拉米斯说。

‘Yes; but who is to carry the letter to Tours, and who to London?’
'是的;但谁该把这封信带到图尔，又该由谁带到伦敦呢？

‘I answer for Bazin,’ said Aramis.
“我代表巴赞，”阿拉米斯说。

‘And I for Planchet,’ said d’Artagnan.
“我支持普朗谢特，”达达尼昂说。

‘Ay,’ said Porthos, ‘if we cannot leave the camp, our lackeys may.’
“是的，”波托斯说，“如果我们不能离开营地，我们的走狗可以。”

‘To be sure they may; and this very day we will write the letters,’ said Aramis. ‘Give the lackeys money, and they will start.’
“当然他们可以；就在这一天我们就会写信，”阿拉米斯说。 “给走狗钱，他们就会开始。”

‘We will give them money?’ replied Athos. ‘Have you any money?’
“我们会给他们钱吗？”阿托斯回答道。 “你有钱吗？”

The four friends looked at one another, and a cloud came over the brows which but lately had been so cheerful.
四个朋友面面相觑，最近一直很愉快的眉宇上浮现出一抹阴云。

‘Look out!’ cried d’Artagnan, ‘I see black points and red points moving yonder. Why did you talk of a regiment, Athos? It is a veritable army!’
“小心！”达达尼昂喊道，“我看到黑点和红点在那边移动。阿托斯，你为什么要谈论军团？这是一支名副其实的军队！”

‘My faith, yes,’ said Athos; ‘there they are. See the sneaks come, without drum or trumpet. Ah, ah! have you finished, Grimaud?’
“我的信仰，是的，”阿托斯说。 ‘他们就在那里。看到鬼鬼祟祟的人来了，没有鼓或喇叭。啊啊！你说完了吗，格里莫？

Grimaud made a sign in the affirmative, and pointed to a dozen bodies which he had set up in the most picturesque attitudes. Some carried arms, others seemed to be taking aim, and the remainder appeared merely to be sword in hand.
格里莫做出了肯定的手势，并指着他以最美丽的姿势摆设的十几具尸体。有些人拿着武器，有些人似乎在瞄准，而剩下的人似乎只是手里拿着剑。

‘Bravo!’ said Athos; ‘that does honor to your imagination.’
“太棒了！”阿托斯说。 “这确实尊重你的想象力。”

‘All very well,’ said Porthos, ‘but I should like to understand.’
“很好，”波托斯说，“但我想了解一下。”

‘Let us decamp first, and you will understand afterward.’
“我们先逃走吧，之后你就会明白了。”

‘A moment, gentlemen, a moment; give Grimaud time to clear away the breakfast.’
“一会儿，先生们，一会儿；给格里莫一些时间来收拾早餐。”

‘Ah, ah!’ said Aramis, ‘the black points and the red points are visibly enlarging. I am of d’Artagnan’s opinion; we have no time to lose in regaining our camp.’
“啊，啊！”阿拉米斯说道，“黑点和红点明显变大了。”我同意达达尼昂的观点；我们必须抓紧时间夺回营地。”

‘My faith,’ said Athos, ‘I have nothing to say against a retreat. We bet upon one hour, and we have stayed an hour and a half. Nothing can be said; let us be off, gentlemen, let us be off!’
“我的信仰，”阿托斯说，“我没有什么可反对撤退的。我们赌的是一个小时，结果我们呆了一个半小时。无话可说；让我们出发吧，先生们，让我们出发吧！”

Grimaud was already ahead, with the basket and the dessert. The four friends followed, ten paces behind him.
格里莫已经提着篮子和甜点走在了前面。四个朋友跟在他后面，距他十步远。

‘What the devil shall we do now, gentlemen?’ cried Athos.
“先生们，我们现在该怎么办？”阿托斯喊道。

‘Have you forgotten anything?’ said Aramis.
“你忘了什么吗？”阿拉米斯说。

‘The white flag, morbleu! We must not leave a flag in the hands of the enemy, even if that flag be but a napkin.’
‘白旗，莫布鲁！我们决不能把一面旗帜留在敌人手中，即使那面旗帜只是一张餐巾纸。”

And Athos ran back to the bastion, mounted the platform, and bore off the flag; but as the Rochellais had arrived within musket range, they opened a terrible fire upon this man, who appeared to expose himself for pleasure’s sake.
阿多斯跑回堡垒，登上平台，摘下旗帜。但当罗切莱人到达火枪射程之内时，他们向这个人开了可怕的火，这个人似乎是为了取乐而暴露自己。

But Athos might be said to bear a charmed life. The balls passed and whistled all around him; not one struck him.
但阿多斯的生活可以说是充满魅力的。球在他周围飞来飞去，发出呼啸声。没有人打他。

Athos waved his flag, turning his back on the guards of the city, and saluting those of the camp. On both sides loud cries arose—on the one side cries of anger, on the other cries of enthusiasm.
阿多斯挥舞着旗帜，背对着城市的守卫，向营地里的守卫敬礼。两边都响起了大声的叫喊声，一边是愤怒的叫喊，另一边是热情的叫喊。

A second discharge followed the first, and three balls, by passing through it, made the napkin really a flag. Cries were heard from the camp, ‘Come down! come down!’
第一次发射后又发射了第二次，三个球穿过它，使餐巾真正成为一面旗帜。营地里传来呼喊声：“下来吧！”坠落！'

Athos came down; his friends, who anxiously awaited him, saw him returned with joy.
阿托斯下来了。他的朋友们焦急地等待着他，看到他回来，高兴极了。

‘Come along, Athos, come along!’ cried d’Artagnan; ‘now we have found everything except money, it would be stupid to be killed.’
“来吧，阿托斯，来吧！”达达尼昂喊道。 “现在除了钱我们什么都找到了，如果被杀就太愚蠢了。”

But Athos continued to march majestically, whatever remarks his companions made; and they, finding their remarks useless, regulated their pace by his.
但阿多斯继续威风凛凛地前进，无论他的同伴们发表什么评论。他们发现自己的言论毫无用处，就跟着他调整自己的步伐。

Grimaud and his basket were far in advance, out of the range of the balls.
格里莫和他的篮子远远领先，超出了球的范围。

At the end of an instant they heard a furious fusillade.
刹那间，他们听到了一阵猛烈的齐射声。

‘What’s that?’ asked Porthos, ‘what are they firing at now? I hear no balls whistle, and I see nobody!’
“那是什么？”波托斯问道，“他们现在向什么开火？我没有听到球哨声，也没有看到任何人！”

‘They are firing at the corpses,’ replied Athos.
“他们正在向尸体开枪，”阿托斯回答道。

‘But the dead cannot return their fire.’
“但死者无法还击。”

‘Certainly not! They will then fancy it is an ambuscade, they will deliberate; and by the time they have found out the pleasantry, we shall be out of the range of their balls. That renders it useless to get a pleurisy by too much haste.’
‘当然不是！然后他们会认为这是一次伏击，他们会故意的；当他们发现乐趣时，我们就超出了他们的范围。这使得操之过急而患上胸膜炎是没有用的。

‘Oh, I comprehend now,’ said the astonished Porthos.
“哦，我现在明白了，”波尔托斯惊讶地说。

‘That’s lucky,’ said Athos, shrugging his shoulders.
“那很幸运，”阿托斯耸耸肩说道。

On their part, the French, on seeing the four friends return at such a step, uttered cries of enthusiasm.
法国人看到这四个朋友迈着这样的步伐回来，发出了热情的叫喊。

At length a fresh discharge was heard, and this time the balls came rattling among the stones around the four friends, and whistling sharply in their ears. The Rochellais had at last taken possession of the bastion.
最后，听到了新的放电声，这一次，球在四个朋友周围的石头之间嘎嘎作响，在他们耳边发出尖锐的呼啸声。罗谢莱家族终于占领了这座堡垒。

‘These Rochellais are bungling fellows,’ said Athos; ‘how many have we killed of them—a dozen?’
“这些罗切莱人都是笨手笨脚的家伙，”阿多斯说。 “我们杀了多少人——一打？”

‘Or fifteen.’
“或者十五个。”

‘How many did we crush under the wall?’
“我们在墙下压死了多少人？”

‘Eight or ten.’
“八个或十个。”

‘And in exchange for all that not even a scratch! Ah, but what is the matter with your hand, d’Artagnan? It bleeds, seemingly.’
‘而换来的却是连一点划痕都没有！啊，达达尼昂，你的手怎么了？看起来，它在流血。”

‘Oh, it’s nothing,’ said d’Artagnan.
“哦，没什么，”达达尼昂说。

‘A spent ball?’
“用过的球？”

‘Not even that.’
“连这个都没有。”

‘What is it, then?’
'之后怎么样了？'

We have said that Athos loved d’Artagnan like a child, and this somber and inflexible personage felt the anxiety of a parent for the young man.
我们说过，阿多斯像爱孩子一样爱达达尼昂，这个阴沉而顽固的人物感受到了父母对这个年轻人的焦虑。

‘Only grazed a little,’ replied d’Artagnan; ‘my fingers were caught between two stones—that of the wall and that of my ring—and the skin was broken.’
“只吃过一点点，”达达尼昂回答道。 “我的手指被两块石头夹住——墙壁的石头和我戒指的石头——皮肤都碎了。”

‘That comes of wearing diamonds, my master,’ said Athos, disdainfully.
“这是佩戴钻石的结果，我的主人，”阿托斯轻蔑地说。

‘Ah, to be sure,’ cried Porthos, ‘there is a diamond. Why the devil, then, do we plague ourselves about money, when there is a diamond?’
“啊，当然，”波托斯喊道，“有一颗钻石。”既然有钻石，为什么我们还要为金钱烦恼呢？

‘Stop a bit!’ said Aramis.
“停一下！”阿拉米斯说。

‘Well thought of, Porthos; this time you have an idea.’
“想得好，波托斯；这次你有主意了。”

‘Undoubtedly,’ said Porthos, drawing himself up at Athos’s compliment; ‘as there is a diamond, let us sell it.’
“毫无疑问，”波托斯说道，听到阿托斯的称赞，他挺起了身子。 “既然有钻石，我们就把它卖掉吧。”

‘But,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘it is the queen’s diamond.’
“但是，”达达尼昂说，“这是女王的钻石。”

‘The stronger reason why it should be sold,’ replied Athos. The queen saving Monsieur de Buckingham, her lover; nothing more just. The queen saving us, her friends; nothing more moral. Let us sell the diamond. What says Monsieur the Abbe? I don’t ask Porthos; his opinion has been given.’
“这是应该出售它的更强有力的理由，”阿托斯回答道。女王拯救了她的情人白金汉先生；仅此而已。女王拯救了我们，她的朋友；没有什么比道德更道德的了。让我们卖掉钻石吧。神甫先生怎么说？我不问波托斯；我问。他的意见已经给出了。

‘Why, I think,’ said Aramis, blushing as usual, ‘that his ring not coming from a mistress, and consequently not being a love token, d’Artagnan may sell it.’
“为什么，我想，”阿拉米斯说，像往常一样红着脸，“他的戒指不是来自情妇，因此不是爱情信物，达达尼昂可能会卖掉它。”

‘My dear Aramis, you speak like theology personified. Your advice, then, is—‘
“我亲爱的阿拉米斯，你说话就像神学的化身。那么，你的建议是——”

‘To sell the diamond,’ replied Aramis.
“为了卖掉钻石，”阿拉米斯回答道。

‘Well, then,’ said d’Artagnan, gaily, ‘let us sell the diamond, and say no more about it.’
“那么，”达达尼昂高兴地说，“我们把钻石卖掉吧，别再说了。”

The fusillade continued; but the four friends were out of reach, and the Rochellais only fired to appease their consciences.
齐射仍在继续。但四位朋友却无法联系到，罗谢莱夫妇开枪只是为了安抚他们的良心。

‘My faith, it was time that idea came into Porthos’s head. Here we are at the camp; therefore, gentlemen, not a word more of this affair. We are observed; they are coming to meet us. We shall be carried in triumph.’
“我相信，现在是波托斯脑海中浮现出这个想法的时候了。我们到了营地；因此，先生们，不要再对这件事多说一句话了。我们被观察；他们要来接我们了。我们将获得胜利。

In fact, as we have said, the whole camp was in motion. More than two thousand persons had assisted, as at a spectacle, in this fortunate but wild undertaking of the four friends—an undertaking of which they were far from suspecting the real motive. Nothing was heard but cries of ‘Live the Musketeers! Live the Guards!’ M. de Busigny was the first to come and shake Athos by the hand, and acknowledge that the wager was lost. The dragoon and the Swiss followed him, and all their comrades followed the dragoon and the Swiss. There was nothing but felicitations, pressures of the hand, and embraces; there was no end to the inextinguishable laughter at the Rochellais. The tumult at length became so great that the cardinal fancied there must be some riot, and sent La Houdiniere, his captain of the Guards, to inquire what was going on.
事实上，正如我们所说，整个营地都在运转。两千多人协助这四位朋友完成这项幸运但疯狂的事业，就像在观看一场奇观一样——他们根本不怀疑这项事业的真正动机。除了“火枪手活着！”的呼喊声之外，什么也没有听到。守卫们活下去！”德布西尼先生第一个过来，与阿多斯握手，并承认赌注输了。龙骑兵和瑞士人跟着他，他们所有的战友也跟着龙骑兵和瑞士人。除了祝贺、握手和拥抱之外，什么也没有。罗谢莱一家的笑声不绝于耳。骚乱最终变得如此严重，以至于红衣主教认为一定发生了骚乱，并派了他的近卫队长拉胡迪尼尔去询问发生了什么事。

The affair was described to the messenger with all the effervescence of enthusiasm.
人们热情洋溢地向使者描述了这件事。

‘Well?’ asked the cardinal, on seeing La Houdiniere return.
“怎么样？”红衣主教看到拉胡迪尼尔回来后问道。

‘Well, monseigneur,’ replied the latter, ‘three Musketeers and a Guardsman laid a wager with Monsieur de Busigny that they would go and breakfast in the bastion St. Gervais; and while breakfasting they held it for two hours against the enemy, and have killed I don’t know how many Rochellais.’
“好吧，大人，”后者回答道，“三名火枪手和一名卫兵与德比西尼先生打赌，他们将去圣热尔韦堡垒吃早餐；但是，他们必须去圣热尔韦堡垒吃早餐。”吃早饭的时候，他们与敌人进行了两个小时的战斗，杀死了我不知道有多少罗切莱人。

‘Did you inquire the names of those three Musketeers?’
“你询问过那三个火枪手的名字吗？”

‘Yes, monseigneur.’
“是的，大人。”

‘What are their names?’
'他们的名字是什么？'

‘Messieurs Athos, Porthos, and Aramis.’
“阿托斯先生、波托斯先生和阿拉米斯先生。”

‘Still my three brave fellows!’ murmured the cardinal. ‘And the Guardsman?’
“仍然是我的三个勇敢的伙伴！”红衣主教低声说道。 “那卫兵呢？”

‘d’Artagnan.’
“达达尼昂。”

‘Still my young scapegrace. Positively, these four men must be on my side.’
'仍然是我年轻时的风景。肯定的是，这四个人一定是站在我这边的。

The same evening the cardinal spoke to M. de Treville of the exploit of the morning, which was the talk of the whole camp. M. de Treville, who had received the account of the adventure from the mouths of the heroes of it, related it in all its details to his Eminence, not forgetting the episode of the napkin.
当天晚上，红衣主教向德·特雷维尔先生讲述了早上的事迹，引起了全营的议论。德·特雷维尔先生从英雄们口中得知了这次冒险的经过，他向主教阁下讲述了这次冒险的所有细节，也没有忘记餐巾纸的事件。

‘That’s well, Monsieur de Treville,’ said the cardinal; ‘pray let that napkin be sent to me. I will have three fleur-de-lis embroidered on it in gold, and will give it to your company as a standard.’
“很好，德特雷维尔先生，”红衣主教说。 ‘请把那张餐巾寄给我。我会用金色在上面绣上三朵百合花，并将其作为标准送给你们公司。

‘Monseigneur,’ said M. de Treville, ‘that will be unjust to the Guardsmen. Monsieur d’Artagnan is not with me; he serves under Monsieur Dessessart.’
“大人，”德·特雷维尔先生说，“这对卫兵来说是不公平的。达达尼昂先生不在我身边；他在 Dessessart 先生手下工作。”

‘Well, then, take him,’ said the cardinal; ‘when four men are so much attached to one another, it is only fair that they should serve in the same company.’
“那么，带上他吧，”红衣主教说道。 “当四个人彼此如此依恋时，他们应该在同一连服役才公平。”

That same evening M. de Treville announced this good news to the three Musketeers and d’Artagnan, inviting all four to breakfast with him next morning.
当天晚上，德特雷维尔先生向三个火枪手和达达尼昂宣布了这个好消息，并邀请四人第二天早上与他一起吃早餐。

D’Artagnan was beside himself with joy. We know that the dream of his life had been to become a Musketeer. The three friends were likewise greatly delighted.
达达尼昂欣喜若狂。我们知道他一生的梦想是成为一名火枪手。三个朋友同样非常高兴。

‘My faith,’ said d’Artagnan to Athos, ‘you had a triumphant idea! As you said, we have acquired glory, and were enabled to carry on a conversation of the highest importance.’
“我的信仰，”达达尼昂对阿托斯说，“你有一个成功的想法！正如你所说，我们已经获得了荣耀，并且能够进行最重要的对话。

‘Which we can resume now without anybody suspecting us, for, with the help of God, we shall henceforth pass for cardinalists.’
“我们现在可以继续进行，没有人会怀疑我们，因为在上帝的帮助下，我们从此将被视为红衣主教。”

That evening d’Artagnan went to present his respects to M. Dessessart, and inform him of his promotion.
当天晚上，达达尼昂前去向德塞萨特先生表示敬意，并通知他晋升的消息。

M. Dessessart, who esteemed d’Artagnan, made him offers of help, as this change would entail expenses for equipment.
德塞萨特先生很尊敬达达尼昂，向他提出帮助，因为这一改变将需要设备费用。

D’Artagnan refused; but thinking the opportunity a good one, he begged him to have the diamond he put into his hand valued, as he wished to turn it into money.
达达尼昂拒绝了；但他认为这是一个很好的机会，请求他对他放入手中的钻石进行估价，因为他希望将其变成金钱。

The next day, M. Dessessart’s valet came to d’Artagnan’s lodging, and gave him a bag containing seven thousand livres.
第二天，德塞萨特先生的贴身男仆来到达达尼昂的住处，给了他一个装有七千里弗的袋子。

This was the price of the queen’s diamond.
这是女王钻石的价格。

48 A FAMILY AFFAIR
48 家庭事务

Athos had invented the phrase, family affair. A family affair was not subject to the investigation of the cardinal; a family affair concerned nobody. People might employ themselves in a family affair before all the world. Therefore Athos had invented the phrase, family affair.
阿多斯发明了“家庭事务”这个词。家庭事务不受红衣主教调查；家庭事务与任何人无关。人们可能会在全世界面前忙于家庭事务。因此阿托斯发明了“家庭事务”这个词。

Aramis had discovered the idea, the lackeys.
阿拉米斯发现了这个主意，走狗们。

Porthos had discovered the means, the diamond.
波托斯发现了手段，那就是钻石。

D’Artagnan alone had discovered nothing—he, ordinarily the most inventive of the four; but it must be also said that the very name of Milady paralyzed him.
达达尼昂一个人什么也没发现——他通常是四个人中最有创造力的；但他却没有发现任何东西。但还必须指出的是，米莱迪这个名字本身就让他瘫痪了。

Ah! no, we were mistaken; he had discovered a purchaser for his diamond.
啊!不，我们错了；他为他的钻石找到了买家。

The breakfast at M. de Treville’s was as gay and cheerful as possible. D’Artagnan already wore his uniform—for being nearly of the same size as Aramis, and as Aramis was so liberally paid by the publisher who purchased his poem as to allow him to buy everything double, he sold his friend a complete outfit.
德特雷维尔先生家的早餐尽可能地愉快和愉快。达达尼昂已经穿上了他的制服——因为他的尺寸几乎与阿拉米斯一样，而且由于阿拉米斯从购买他的诗的出版商那里得到了如此慷慨的报酬，以至于允许他双倍购买所有东西，他卖给了他的朋友一套完整的衣服。

D’Artagnan would have been at the height of his wishes if he had not constantly seen Milady like a dark cloud hovering in the horizon.
如果不是达达尼昂经常看到米莱迪像一朵乌云在地平线上盘旋，他本来就能实现自己的愿望。

After breakfast, it was agreed that they should meet again in the evening at Athos’s lodging, and there finish their plans.
早餐后，大家商定晚上在阿多斯的住处再次会面，并在那里完成他们的计划。

D’Artagnan passed the day in exhibiting his Musketeer’s uniform in every street of the camp.
达达尼昂在营地的每条街道上展示他的火枪手制服来度过这一天。

In the evening, at the appointed hour, the four friends met. There only remained three things to decide—what they should write to Milady’s brother; what they should write to the clever person at Tours; and which should be the lackeys to carry the letters.
晚上，在约定的时间，四个朋友见面了。只剩下三件事需要决定——他们应该给米莱迪的哥哥写什么信；他们应该给图尔的聪明人写些什么；哪个应该是搬运信件的走狗。

Everyone offered his own. Athos talked of the discretion of Grimaud, who never spoke a word but when his master unlocked his mouth. Porthos boasted of the strength of Mousqueton, who was big enough to thrash four men of ordinary size. Aramis, confiding in the address of Bazin, made a pompous eulogium on his candidate. Finally, d’Artagnan had entire faith in the bravery of Planchet, and reminded them of the manner in which he had conducted himself in the ticklish affair of Boulogne.
每个人都提供了自己的。阿托斯谈到了格里莫的谨慎，除非他的主人松开他的嘴，否则他从来不说话。波尔托斯夸耀穆斯克顿的力量，他的体格足以击败四个普通体型的人。阿拉米斯向巴赞透露了他的讲话，对他的候选人进行了盛大的颂扬。最后，达达尼昂对普朗谢的勇敢充满信心，并提醒他们他在布洛涅棘手事件中的表现。

These four virtues disputed the prize for a length of time, and gave birth to magnificent speeches which we do not repeat here for fear they should be deemed too long.
这四种美德对这个奖项争论了很长一段时间，并催生了精彩的演讲，我们在此不再重复，以免被认为太长。

‘Unfortunately,’ said Athos, ‘he whom we send must possess in himself alone the four qualities united.’
“不幸的是，”阿多斯说，“我们派来的人必须具备这四种品质。”

‘But where is such a lackey to be found?’
“可是哪里去找这样的走狗呢？”

‘Not to be found!’ cried Athos. ‘I know it well, so take Grimaud.’
“找不到！”阿托斯喊道。 “我很清楚，所以就拿格里莫来说吧。”

‘Take Mousqueton.’
“以穆斯克顿为例。”

‘Take Bazin.’
“以巴赞为例。”

‘Take Planchet. Planchet is brave and shrewd; they are two qualities out of the four.’
‘拿上普兰切特。普兰切特勇敢而精明；它们是四种品质中的两种。

‘Gentlemen,’ said Aramis, ‘the principal question is not to know which of our four lackeys is the most discreet, the most strong, the most clever, or the most brave; the principal thing is to know which loves money the best.’
“先生们，”阿拉米斯说，“主要问题不是要知道我们的四个仆人中哪一个最谨慎、最强壮、最聪明或最勇敢；最重要的是要知道谁最爱钱。”

‘What Aramis says is very sensible,’ replied Athos; ‘we must speculate upon the faults of people, and not upon their virtues. Monsieur Abbe, you are a great moralist.’
“阿拉米斯说的很有道理，”阿托斯回答道。 “我们必须推测人们的缺点，而不是他们的美德。阿贝先生，您是一位伟大的道德家。

‘Doubtless,’ said Aramis, ‘for we not only require to be well served in order to succeed, but moreover, not to fail; for in case of failure, heads are in question, not for our lackeys—‘
“毫无疑问，”阿拉米斯说，“因为我们不仅需要得到良好的服务才能成功，而且还需要不失败；因为一旦失败，问题就出在我们的脑袋上，而不是我们的走狗——”

‘Speak lower, Aramis,’ said Athos.
“小点声，阿拉米斯，”阿托斯说道。

‘That’s wise—not for the lackeys,’ resumed Aramis, ‘but for the master—for the masters, we may say. Are our lackeys sufficiently devoted to us to risk their lives for us? No.’
“这是明智之举——不是为了走狗，”阿拉米斯继续说道，“而是为了主人——我们可以说，为了主人。”我们的走狗是否对我们足够忠诚，愿意为我们冒生命危险？不。'

‘My faith,’ said d’Artagnan. ‘I would almost answer for Planchet.’
“我的信仰，”达达尼昂说。 “我几乎会为普兰切特负责。”

‘Well, my dear friend, add to his natural devotedness a good sum of money, and then, instead of answering for him once, answer for him twice.’
“好吧，我亲爱的朋友，请在他自然的奉献精神上加上一大笔钱，然后，不要为他负责一次，而是为他负责两次。”

‘Why, good God! you will be deceived just the same,’ said Athos, who was an optimist when things were concerned, and a pessimist when men were in question. ‘They will promise everything for the sake of the money, and on the road fear will prevent them from acting. Once taken, they will be pressed; when pressed, they will confess everything. What the devil! we are not children. To reach England’—Athos lowered his voice—‘all France, covered with spies and creatures of the cardinal, must be crossed. A passport for embarkation must be obtained; and the party must be acquainted with English in order to ask the way to London. Really, I think the thing very difficult.’
‘哎呀，天啊！阿多斯说，当人们关心事情时，他是一个乐观主义者，而当人们关心问题时，他是一个悲观主义者。 “为了钱，他们会承诺一切，而在路上，恐惧会阻止他们采取行动。”一旦拿下，就会被压；当受到追问时，他们会承认一切。什么鬼啊！我们不是孩子。为了到达英格兰，”——阿多斯压低了声音——“必须穿越布满间谍和红衣主教走狗的整个法国。必须获得登船护照；并且该团体必须熟悉英语才能询问去伦敦的路。真的，我认为这件事非常困难。

‘Not at all,’ cried d’Artagnan, who was anxious the matter should be accomplished; ‘on the contrary, I think it very easy. It would be, no doubt, parbleu, if we write to Lord de Winter about affairs of vast importance, of the horrors of the cardinal—‘
“一点也不，”达达尼昂喊道，他急于解决这件事。 ‘恰恰相反，我认为这很容易。毫无疑问，如果我们写信给德温特勋爵，谈论极其重要的事情，以及红衣主教的恐怖——”

‘Speak lower!’ said Athos.
“小声点儿！”阿托斯说道。

‘—of intrigues and secrets of state,’ continued d’Artagnan, complying with the recommendation. ‘There can be no doubt we would all be broken on the wheel; but for God’s sake, do not forget, as you yourself said, Athos, that we only write to him concerning a family affair; that we only write to him to entreat that as soon as Milady arrives in London he will put it out of her power to injure us. I will write to him, then, nearly in these terms.’
“——关于阴谋和国家秘密，”达达尼昂继续说道，遵循了建议。 “毫无疑问，我们都会在车轮上崩溃；但看在上帝的份上，不要忘记，正如你自己所说的，阿多斯，我们写信给他只是为了家庭事务；我们只是写信给他，恳求米莱迪一到达伦敦，他就禁止她伤害我们。那么我会写信给他，几乎就是这样的。

‘Let us see,’ said Athos, assuming in advance a critical look.
“让我们看看，”阿托斯说，预先做出了批判的目光。

‘Monsieur and dear friend—‘
“先生和亲爱的朋友——”

‘Ah, yes! Dear friend to an Englishman,’ interrupted Athos; ‘well commenced! Bravo, d’Artagnan! Only with that word you would be quartered instead of being broken on the wheel.’
'是啊！ “英国人的亲爱的朋友，”阿托斯打断道。 ‘开始得好！太棒了，达达尼昂！只有听到这个词，你才会被分尸，而不是被车轮碾碎。”

‘Well, perhaps. I will say, then, Monsieur, quite short.’
“嗯，也许吧。那么，先生，我会说，很短。

‘You may even say, My Lord,’ replied Athos, who stickled for propriety.
“您甚至可以说，大人，”阿多斯回答道，他坚持讲礼节。

‘My Lord, do you remember the little goat pasture of the Luxembourg?’
“大人，您还记得卢森堡的小山羊牧场吗？”

‘Good, the Luxembourg! One might believe this is an allusion to the queen-mother! That’s ingenious,’ said Athos.
‘好，卢森堡！有人可能会认为这是在暗指太后！这太巧妙了，”阿托斯说。

‘Well, then, we will put simply, My Lord, do you remember a certain little enclosure where your life was spared?’
“好吧，那么，我们简单地说，大人，您还记得某个小围栏，您在那儿幸免于难吗？”

‘My dear d’Artagnan, you will never make anything but a very bad secretary. Where your life was spared! For shame! that’s unworthy. A man of spirit is not to be reminded of such services. A benefit reproached is an offense committed.’
“我亲爱的达达尼昂，除了一个非常糟糕的秘书之外，你永远不会成为任何人。在那里你的生命得以幸免！耻辱！这是不值得的。一个有精神的人不会被提醒去参加这样的服务。受到诟病的利益就是一种冒犯。”

‘The devil!’ said d’Artagnan, ‘you are insupportable. If the letter must be written under your censure, my faith, I renounce the task.’
“见鬼！”达达尼昂说，“你真是令人难以忍受。”如果这封信必须在你的谴责下写出来，我的信仰，我放弃这项任务。

‘And you will do right. Handle the musket and the sword, my dear fellow. You will come off splendidly at those two exercises; but pass the pen over to Monsieur Abbe. That’s his province.’
‘你会做对的。拿起步枪和剑，我亲爱的朋友。你在这两项练习中将会取得出色的成绩；但把笔交给阿贝先生吧。那是他的省份。

‘Ay, ay!’ said Porthos; ‘pass the pen to Aramis, who writes theses in Latin.’
“哎呀，哎呀！”波托斯说。 “把笔交给阿拉米斯，他用拉丁文写论文。”

‘Well, so be it,’ said d’Artagnan. ‘Draw up this note for us, Aramis; but by our Holy Father the Pope, cut it short, for I shall prune you in my turn, I warn you.’
“好吧，就这样吧，”达达尼昂说。 “阿拉米斯，为我们起草这张纸条；但我们的圣父教皇，请打住，因为我警告你，我也会修剪你的。

‘I ask no better,’ said Aramis, with that ingenious air of confidence which every poet has in himself; ‘but let me be properly acquainted with the subject. I have heard here and there that this sister-in-law was a hussy. I have obtained proof of it by listening to her conversation with the cardinal.’
“我没有更好的要求，”阿拉米斯说道，带着每个诗人都拥有的巧妙的自信神情。 “但是让我正确熟悉这个主题。我到处都听说这个嫂子是个婊子。我通过听她与红衣主教的谈话获得了证据。

‘Lower! SACRE BLEU!’ said Athos.
'降低！圣蓝色！”阿托斯说道。

‘But,’ continued Aramis, ‘the details escape me.’
“但是，”阿拉米斯继续说道，“我忘记了细节。”

‘And me also,’ said Porthos.
“我也是，”波托斯说。

D’Artagnan and Athos looked at each other for some time in silence. At length Athos, after serious reflection and becoming more pale than usual, made a sign of assent to d’Artagnan, who by it understood he was at liberty to speak.
达达尼昂和阿托斯沉默地对视了一会儿。最后，阿多斯经过认真的思考，脸色变得比平时更加​​苍白，向达达尼昂做了一个表示同意的手势，达达尼昂由此明白他可以自由发言。

‘Well, this is what you have to say,’ said d’Artagnan: ‘My Lord, your sister-in-law is an infamous woman, who wished to have you killed that she might inherit your wealth; but she could not marry your brother, being already married in France, and having been—‘ d’Artagnan stopped, as if seeking for the word, and looked at Athos.
“好吧，这就是你要说的，”达达尼昂说，“大人，你的嫂子是个臭名昭著的女人，她想杀了你，以便继承你的财产；但她不能嫁给你的兄弟，因为她已经在法国结婚了，而且已经——”达达尼昂停了下来，似乎在寻找这个词，然后看着阿多斯。

‘Repudiated by her husband,’ said Athos.
“被她丈夫抛弃了，”阿多斯说。

‘Because she had been branded,’ continued d’Artagnan.
“因为她被打上了烙印，”达达尼昂继续说道。

‘Bah!’ cried Porthos. ‘Impossible! What do you say—that she wanted to have her brother-in-law killed?’
“呸！”波尔托斯叫道。 '不可能的！你怎么说——她想杀掉她的姐夫？

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘She was married?’ asked Aramis.
“她结婚了？”阿拉米斯问。

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘And her husband found out that she had a fleur-de-lis on her shoulder?’ cried Porthos.
“她丈夫发现她肩上有一朵百合花？”波尔托斯喊道。

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

These three yeses had been pronounced by Athos, each with a sadder intonation.
阿多斯说出了这三个“是”，每一个的语气都更加悲伤。

‘And who has seen this fleur-de-lis?’ inquired Aramis.
“谁见过这朵百合花？”阿拉米斯问道。

‘d’Artagnan and I. Or rather, to observe the chronological order, I and d’Artagnan,’ replied Athos.
“达达尼昂和我。或者更确切地说，按照时间顺序，我和达达尼昂，”阿托斯回答道。

‘And does the husband of this frightful creature still live?’ said Aramis.
“这个可怕生物的丈夫还活着吗？”阿拉米斯问道。

‘He still lives.’
“他还活着。”

‘Are you quite sure of it?’
“你确定吗？”

‘I am he.’
“我就是他。”

There was a moment of cold silence, during which everyone was affected according to his nature.
一阵冰冷的沉默，每个人都自然而然地受到了影响。

‘This time,’ said Athos, first breaking the silence, ‘d’Artagnan has given us an excellent program, and the letter must be written at once.’
“这一次，”阿托斯首先打破了沉默，“达达尼昂给了我们一个很好的计划，这封信必须立即写下来。”

‘The devil! You are right, Athos,’ said Aramis; ‘and it is a rather difficult matter. The chancellor himself would be puzzled how to write such a letter, and yet the chancellor draws up an official report very readily. Never mind! Be silent, I will write.’
'恶魔！你是对的，阿托斯，”阿拉米斯说。 ‘这是一件相当困难的事情。总理本人也会困惑如何写这样的信，但总理却很轻松地起草了一份正式报告。没关系！安静点，我会写的。”

Aramis accordingly took the quill, reflected for a few moments, wrote eight or ten lines in a charming little female hand, and then with a voice soft and slow, as if each word had been scrupulously weighed, he read the following:
阿拉米斯于是拿起羽毛笔，沉思了一会儿，用迷人的小手写下了八行或十行，然后用轻柔而缓慢的声音，仿佛每个字都经过仔细掂量，读了以下内容：

‘My Lord, The person who writes these few lines had the honor of crossing swords with you in the little enclosure of the Rue d’Enfer. As you have several times since declared yourself the friend of that person, he thinks it his duty to respond to that friendship by sending you important information. Twice you have nearly been the victim of a near relative, whom you believe to be your heir because you are ignorant that before she contracted a marriage in England she was already married in France. But the third time, which is the present, you may succumb. Your relative left La Rochelle for England during the night. Watch her arrival, for she has great and terrible projects. If you require to know positively what she is capable of, read her past history on her left shoulder.’
“大人，写下这几行字的人有幸在地狱街的小围场里与您交锋。由于您已多次宣称自己是该人的朋友，因此他认为他有责任通过向您发送重要信息来回应这种友谊。有两次你差点成为近亲的受害者，你相信她是你的继承人，因为你不知道她在英国结婚之前就已经在法国结婚了。但第三次，也就是现在，你可能会屈服。你的亲戚连夜离开拉罗谢尔前往英国。看着她的到来，因为她有伟大和可怕的项目。如果你想确切地了解她的能力，请阅读她左肩上的过去的历史。

‘Well, now that will do wonderfully well,’ said Athos. ‘My dear Aramis, you have the pen of a secretary of state. Lord de Winter will now be upon his guard if the letter should reach him; and even if it should fall into the hands of the cardinal, we shall not be compromised. But as the lackey who goes may make us believe he has been to London and may stop at Chatellerault, let us give him only half the sum promised him, with the letter, with an agreement that he shall have the other half in exchange for the reply. Have you the diamond?’ continued Athos.
“好吧，现在效果非常好，”阿托斯说。 “我亲爱的阿拉米斯，你有国务卿的笔。如果这封信到达温特勋爵手中，他现在会保持警惕。即使它落入红衣主教手中，我们也不会妥协。但是，由于走狗可能会让我们相信他去过伦敦，并可能在沙泰勒罗停留，所以我们只给他信中承诺的一半金额，并同意他将用另一半来交换回复。你有钻石吗？”阿托斯继续说道。

‘I have what is still better. I have the price”; and d’Artagnan threw the bag upon the table. At the sound of the gold Aramis raised his eyes and Porthos started. As to Athos, he remained unmoved.
‘我还有更好的东西。我有价格”；达达尼昂把袋子扔到桌子上。听到金色的声音，阿拉米斯抬起了眼睛，波托斯吃了一惊。至于阿托斯，他依然不为所动。

‘How much in that little bag?’
“那个小袋子里有多少钱？”

‘Seven thousand livres, in louis of twelve francs.’
“七千里弗，折合十二法郎路易。”

‘Seven thousand livres!’ cried Porthos. ‘That poor little diamond was worth seven thousand livres?’
“七千里弗！”波托斯喊道。 “那颗可怜的小钻石值七千里弗？”

‘It appears so,’ said Athos, ‘since here they are. I don’t suppose that our friend d’Artagnan has added any of his own to the amount.’
“看来是这样，”阿多斯说，“因为他们在这里。我不认为我们的朋友达达尼昂在这笔金额中添加了他自己的任何东西。

‘But, gentlemen, in all this,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘we do not think of the queen. Let us take some heed of the welfare of her dear Buckingham. That is the least we owe her.’
“但是，先生们，在这一切中，”达达尼昂说道，“我们并没有想到王后。让我们关心一下她亲爱的白金汉的福祉。这是我们至少欠她的。

‘That’s true,’ said Athos; ‘but that concerns Aramis.’
“确实如此，”阿托斯说。 “但这与阿拉米斯有关。”

‘Well,’ replied the latter, blushing, ‘what must I say?’
“好吧，”后者红着脸回答道，“我该说什么呢？”

‘Oh, that’s simple enough!’ replied Athos. ‘Write a second letter for that clever personage who lives at Tours.’
“噢，这很简单！”阿托斯回答道。 “给住在图尔的那个聪明人写第二封信。”

Aramis resumed his pen, reflected a little, and wrote the following lines, which he immediately submitted to the approbation of his friends.
阿拉米斯重新拿起笔，想了想，写下了以下几行文字，并立即提交给朋友们认可。

‘My dear cousin.’
“我亲爱的表弟。”

‘Ah, ah!’ said Athos. ‘This clever person is your relative, then?’
“啊，啊！”阿托斯说道。 “那么这个聪明人是你的亲戚吗？”

‘Cousin-german.’
“德国表弟。”

‘Go on, to your cousin, then!’
“那么，去找你的表弟吧！”

Aramis continued:
阿拉米斯继续说道：

‘My dear Cousin, His Eminence, the cardinal, whom God preserve for the happiness of France and the confusion of the enemies of the kingdom, is on the point of putting an end to the hectic rebellion of La Rochelle. It is probable that the succor of the English fleet will never even arrive in sight of the place. I will even venture to say that I am certain M. de Buckingham will be prevented from setting out by some great event. His Eminence is the most illustrious politician of times past, of times present, and probably of times to come. He would extinguish the sun if the sun incommoded him. Give these happy tidings to your sister, my dear cousin. I have dreamed that the unlucky Englishman was dead. I cannot recollect whether it was by steel or by poison; only of this I am sure, I have dreamed he was dead, and you know my dreams never deceive me. Be assured, then, of seeing me soon return.’
“我亲爱的表弟，主教阁下，上帝为了法国的幸福和王国敌人的混乱而保护他，他即将结束拉罗谢尔的激烈叛乱。英国舰队的救援很可能永远不会到达这个地方。我什至敢说，我确信白金汉先生会因某些重大事件而无法出发。陛下是过去、现在、甚至未来最杰出的政治家。如果太阳妨碍了他，他就会熄灭太阳。把这些好消息告诉你的妹妹，我亲爱的表弟。我梦见那个不幸的英国人死了。我记不清是用钢铁还是毒药；我唯一确信的是，我梦见过他死了，你知道我的梦永远不会欺骗我。那么，请放心，我很快就会回来。”

‘Capital!’ cried Athos; ‘you are the king of poets, my dear Aramis. You speak like the Apocalypse, and you are as true as the Gospel. There is nothing now to do but to put the address to this letter.’
“资本！”阿托斯喊道。 “你是诗人之王，我亲爱的阿拉米斯。你说得像启示录，你说得像福音一样真实。现在别无选择，只能把地址写到这封信上。”

‘That is easily done,’ said Aramis.
“这很容易做到，”阿拉米斯说。

He folded the letter fancifully, and took up his pen and wrote:
他奇思妙想地把信折好，拿起笔写道：

‘To Mlle. Michon, seamstress, Tours.’
“致女士。米琼，裁缝，图尔。”

The three friends looked at one another and laughed; they were caught.
三个朋友相视一笑。他们被抓住了。

‘Now,’ said Aramis, ‘you will please to understand, gentlemen, that Bazin alone can carry this letter to Tours. My cousin knows nobody but Bazin, and places confidence in nobody but him; any other person would fail. Besides, Bazin is ambitious and learned; Bazin has read history, gentlemen, he knows that Sixtus the Fifth became Pope after having kept pigs. Well, as he means to enter the Church at the same time as myself, he does not despair of becoming Pope in his turn, or at least a cardinal. You can understand that a man who has such views will never allow himself to be taken, or if taken, will undergo martyrdom rather than speak.’
“现在，”阿拉米斯说，“先生们，请您了解，只有巴赞才能将这封信带到图尔。我的表弟除了巴赞之外谁也不认识，除了他之外谁也不信任他。任何其他人都会失败。此外，巴赞雄心勃勃，博学多才。巴赞读过历史，先生们，他知道西克斯图斯五世养猪后成为教皇。好吧，既然他打算和我同时进入教会，他并不绝望地成为教皇，或者至少是一名红衣主教。你可以理解，一个有这种观点的人永远不会允许自己被带走，或者如果被带走，他会殉难而不是说话。

‘Very well,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘I consent to Bazin with all my heart, but grant me Planchet. Milady had him one day turned out of doors, with sundry blows of a good stick to accelerate his motions. Now, Planchet has an excellent memory; and I will be bound that sooner than relinquish any possible means of vengeance, he will allow himself to be beaten to death. If your arrangements at Tours are your arrangements, Aramis, those of London are mine. I request, then, that Planchet may be chosen, more particularly as he has already been to London with me, and knows how to speak correctly: London, sir, if you please, and my master, Lord d’Artagnan. With that you may be satisfied he can make his way, both going and returning.’
“很好，”达达尼昂说，“我全心全意地同意巴赞的意见，但请赐予我普兰歇特。有一天，米莱迪把他赶出了门，用一根好棍子敲打他，以加速他的动作。现在，普兰切特拥有出色的记忆力；我保证，在放弃任何可能的复仇手段之前，他会允许自己被殴打致死。如果你在图尔的安排是你的安排，阿拉米斯，那么伦敦的安排就是我的安排。那么，我请求普朗谢特可以被选中，特别是因为他已经和我一起去了伦敦，并且知道如何正确地说话：伦敦，先生，如果您愿意的话，还有我的主人达达尼昂勋爵。有了这个，你可能会感到满意，他可以走自己的路，无论去还是回来。

‘In that case,’ said Athos, ‘Planchet must receive seven hundred livres for going, and seven hundred livres for coming back; and Bazin, three hundred livres for going, and three hundred livres for returning—that will reduce the sum to five thousand livres. We will each take a thousand livres to be employed as seems good, and we will leave a fund of a thousand livres under the guardianship of Monsieur Abbe here, for extraordinary occasions or common wants. Will that do?’
“这样的话，”阿托斯说道，“普朗切特去必须得到七百里弗，回来必须得到七百里弗；巴赞则去三百里弗，回程三百里弗——这样一来，总金额就减少到五千里弗了。我们将每人拿一千里弗来使用，如果看起来不错的话，我们将在阿贝先生的监护下留下一千里弗的基金，以备特殊场合或共同需要。这样可以吗？

‘My dear Athos,’ said Aramis, ‘you speak like Nestor, who was, as everyone knows, the wisest among the Greeks.’
“我亲爱的阿多斯，”阿拉米斯说，“你说话就像内斯特，众所周知，他是希腊人中最聪明的人。”

‘Well, then,’ said Athos, ‘it is agreed. Planchet and Bazin shall go. Everything considered, I am not sorry to retain Grimaud; he is accustomed to my ways, and I am particular. Yesterday’s affair must have shaken him a little; his voyage would upset him quite.’
“那么，”阿托斯说，“我们同意了。”普兰切特和巴赞该走了。综合考虑，我并不后悔保留格里莫；他习惯了我的方式，而我却很特别。昨天的事情一定让他有些动摇；他的航行会让他非常心烦意乱。

Planchet was sent for, and instructions were given him. The matter had been named to him by d’Artagnan, who in the first place pointed out the money to him, then the glory, and then the danger.
普朗切特被叫来，并给了他指示。这件事是达达尼昂向他指出的，达达尼昂首先向他指出了金钱，然后是荣耀，然后是危险。

‘I will carry the letter in the lining of my coat,’ said Planchet; ‘and if I am taken I will swallow it.’
“我会把这封信放在我外套的衬里里，”普兰切特说。 “如果我被抓住了，我就会吞下它。”

‘Well, but then you will not be able to fulfill your commission,’ said d’Artagnan.
“好吧，但是那样你就无法完成你的委托了，”达达尼昂说。

‘You will give me a copy this evening, which I shall know by heart tomorrow.’
“今晚你给我一份，明天我就会背下来。”

D’Artagnan looked at his friends, as if to say, ‘Well, what did I tell you?’
达达尼昂看着他的朋友们，仿佛在说：“好吧，我告诉你们什么了？”

‘Now,’ continued he, addressing Planchet, ‘you have eight days to get an interview with Lord de Winter; you have eight days to return—in all sixteen days. If, on the sixteenth day after your departure, at eight o’clock in the evening you are not here, no money—even if it be but five minutes past eight.’
“现在，”他对普朗谢继续说道，“你有八天的时间去采访德温特勋爵；你有八天的时间返回——总共十六天。如果在你离开后的第十六天，晚上八点你不在这里，就没有钱——即使只是八点过五分。

‘Then, monsieur,’ said Planchet, ‘you must buy me a watch.’
“那么，先生，”普兰歇说，“您必须给我买一块手表。”

‘Take this,’ said Athos, with his usual careless generosity, giving him his own, ‘and be a good lad. Remember, if you talk, if you babble, if you get drunk, you risk your master’s head, who has so much confidence in your fidelity, and who answers for you. But remember, also, that if by your fault any evil happens to d’Artagnan, I will find you, wherever you may be, for the purpose of ripping up your belly.’
“拿着这个，”阿多斯一如既往地表现出漫不经心的慷慨，把自己的也给了他，“做一个好小伙子。”记住，如果你说话，如果你胡言乱语，如果你喝醉了，你的主人就会冒着丧命的危险，他对你的忠诚非常有信心，并且会为你负责。但也要记住，如果达达尼昂因你的过失而遭受任何不幸，我会找到你，无论你在哪里，目的是撕开你的肚子。

‘Oh, monsieur!’ said Planchet, humiliated by the suspicion, and moreover, terrified at the calm air of the Musketeer.
“哦，先生！”普朗歇说，他因这种怀疑而感到羞辱，而且对火枪手平静的神情感到害怕。

‘And I,’ said Porthos, rolling his large eyes, ‘remember, I will skin you alive.’
“而我，”波托斯翻着大眼睛说道，“记住，我会活剥你的皮。”

‘Ah, monsieur!’
“啊，先生！”

‘And I,’ said Aramis, with his soft, melodius voice, ‘remember that I will roast you at a slow fire, like a savage.’
“而我，”阿拉米斯用他柔和、悦耳的声音说道，“记住我会像野蛮人一样用文火烤你。”

‘Ah, monsieur!’
“啊，先生！”

Planchet began to weep. We will not venture to say whether it was from terror created by the threats or from tenderness at seeing four friends so closely united.
普朗切特开始哭泣。我们不敢说这是因为威胁造成的恐惧，还是因为看到四个朋友如此紧密地团结在一起而感到温柔。

D’Artagnan took his hand. ‘See, Planchet,’ said he, ‘these gentlemen only say this out of affection for me, but at bottom they all like you.’
达达尼昂握住他的手。 “你看，普兰切特，”他说，“这些先生们只是出于对我的喜爱才这么说，但本质上他们都喜欢你。”

‘Ah, monsieur,’ said Planchet, ‘I will succeed or I will consent to be cut in quarters; and if they do cut me in quarters, be assured that not a morsel of me will speak.’
“啊，先生，”普朗歇说，“我会成功，否则我会同意被切成四半；如果他们真的把我切成四半，请放心，我不会说话。

It was decided that Planchet should set out the next day, at eight o’clock in the morning, in order, as he had said, that he might during the night learn the letter by heart. He gained just twelve hours by this engagement; he was to be back on the sixteenth day, by eight o’clock in the evening.
决定普朗切特第二天早上八点出发，正如他所说，这样他就可以在晚上背下这封信。这次约会他只获得了十二个小时；他要在第十六天晚上八点回来。

In the morning, as he was mounting his horse, d’Artagnan, who felt at the bottom of his heart a partiality for the duke, took Planchet aside.
早上，当达达尼昂上马时，他从心底里对公爵产生了偏爱，把普朗歇拉到一边。

‘Listen,’ said he to him. ‘When you have given the letter to Lord de Winter and he has read it, you will further say to him: Watch over his Grace Lord Buckingham, for they wish to assassinate him. But this, Planchet, is so serious and important that I have not informed my friends that I would entrust this secret to you; and for a captain’s commission I would not write it.’
“听着，”他对他说。 “当你把这封信交给德温特勋爵并且他读过之后，你还要对他说：看好白金汉勋爵陛下，因为他们想刺杀他。但这件事，普朗切特，是如此严肃和重要，以至于我没有告诉我的朋友们我会把这个秘密托付给你；对于船长的任命，我不会写它。

‘Be satisfied, monsieur,’ said Planchet, ‘you shall see if confidence can be placed in me.’
“放心吧，先生，”普兰歇说，“你会看看我是否可以信任。”

Mounted on an excellent horse, which he was to leave at the end of twenty leagues in order to take the post, Planchet set off at a gallop, his spirits a little depressed by the triple promise made him by the Musketeers, but otherwise as light-hearted as possible.
普兰切特骑着一匹优秀的马，他将在二十里格结束后离开这匹马，以便就任这个职位。尽心尽力。

Bazin set out the next day for Tours, and was allowed eight days for performing his commission.
巴赞第二天就出发前往图尔，并有八天的时间来执行他的任务。

The four friends, during the period of these two absences, had, as may well be supposed, the eye on the watch, the nose to the wind, and the ear on the hark. Their days were passed in endeavoring to catch all that was said, in observing the proceeding of the cardinal, and in looking out for all the couriers who arrived. More than once an involuntary trembling seized them when called upon for some unexpected service. They had, besides, to look constantly to their own proper safety; Milady was a phantom which, when it had once appeared to people, did not allow them to sleep very quietly.
可以想象，在这两次缺席期间，这四个朋友的眼睛盯着手表，鼻子盯着风，耳朵听着。他们的日子就这样度过了，他们努力听清所说的一切，观察红衣主教的行踪，并留意所有到达的信使。当他们被要求提供一些意想不到的服务时，他们不止一次不由自主地颤抖起来。此外，他们还必须时刻注意自身的安全。米莱迪是一个幻影，一旦出现在人们面前，就让人无法安眠。

On the morning of the eighth day, Bazin, fresh as ever, and smiling, according to custom, entered the cabaret of the Parpaillot as the four friends were sitting down to breakfast, saying, as had been agreed upon: ‘Monsieur Aramis, the answer from your cousin.’
第八天早上，巴赞像往常一样精神焕发，按照惯例微笑着走进帕帕约特的歌舞厅，当时四个朋友正坐下来吃早餐，按照约定说：“阿拉米斯先生，你表弟的回答。

The four friends exchanged a joyful glance; half of the work was done. It is true, however, that it was the shorter and easier part.
四个朋友愉快地交换了一个眼神；工作已经完成一半了。然而，这确实是更短、更容易的部分。

Aramis, blushing in spite of himself, took the letter, which was in a large, coarse hand and not particular for its orthography.
阿拉米斯不由自主地脸红了，他接过这封信，这封信是用粗大的手写的，而且在拼写上并不特别。

‘Good God!’ cried he, laughing, ‘I quite despair of my poor Michon; she will never write like Monsieur de Voiture.’
“天啊！”他笑着喊道，“我对我可怜的米雄感到非常绝望；她永远不会像德沃伊图尔先生那样写作。”

‘What does you mean by boor Michon?’ said the Swiss, who was chatting with the four friends when the letter came.
“粗鲁米雄是什么意思？”瑞士人说，当信来时，他正在和四个朋友聊天。

‘Oh, pardieu, less than nothing,’ said Aramis; ‘a charming little seamstress, whom I love dearly and from whose hand I requested a few lines as a sort of keepsake.’
“哦，pardieu，比什么都没有还好，”阿拉米斯说。 “一位迷人的小裁缝，我深爱着她，我向她索要几行字作为纪念品。”

‘The duvil!’ said the Swiss, ‘if she is as great a lady as her writing is large, you are a lucky fellow, gomrade!’
“这个女人！”瑞士人说，“如果她是位像她的大字一样伟大的女士，那么你就是一个幸运的家伙，老兄！”

Aramis read the letter, and passed it to Athos.
阿拉米斯读了这封信，并将其交给了阿托斯。

‘See what she writes to me, Athos,’ said he.
“看看她给我写了什么，阿多斯，”他说。

Athos cast a glance over the epistle, and to disperse all the suspicions that might have been created, read aloud:
阿多斯扫了一眼这封信，为了打消所有可能产生的怀疑，他大声朗读道：

‘My cousin, My sister and I are skillful in interpreting dreams, and even entertain great fear of them; but of yours it may be said, I hope, every dream is an illusion. Adieu! Take care of yourself, and act so that we may from time to time hear you spoken of.
‘我和我的表弟、我的妹妹都擅长解梦，甚至对梦抱有极大的恐惧；但对于你来说，我希望，每一个梦想都是幻觉。再见！照顾好自己，并采取行动，以便我们可以时不时听到人们谈论您。

‘Marie Michon”
“玛丽·米琼”

‘And what dream does she mean?’ asked the dragoon, who had approached during the reading.
“她指的是什么梦？”在朗读期间走近的龙骑兵问道。

‘Yez; what’s the dream?’ said the Swiss.
‘耶兹; “梦想是什么？”瑞士人问道。

‘Well, pardieu!’ said Aramis, ‘it was only this: I had a dream, and I related it to her.’
“好吧，帕迪厄！”阿拉米斯说，“只是这样：我做了一个梦，我把它告诉了她。”

‘Yez, yez,’ said the Swiss; ‘it’s simple enough to dell a dream, but I neffer dream.’
“是的，是的，”瑞士人说。 “做梦很简单，但我从不做梦。”

‘You are very fortunate,’ said Athos, rising; ‘I wish I could say as much!’
“你很幸运，”阿托斯站起身来说道。 “我希望我能这么说！”

‘Neffer,’ replied the Swiss, enchanted that a man like Athos could envy him anything. ‘Neffer, neffer!’
“内弗，”瑞士人回答道，他对像阿托斯这样的人可以嫉妒他任何事情感到着迷。 “奈弗，奈弗！”

D’Artagnan, seeing Athos rise, did likewise, took his arm, and went out.
达达尼昂看到阿多斯站了起来，也跟着起身，挽起他的手臂，走了出去。

Porthos and Aramis remained behind to encounter the jokes of the dragoon and the Swiss.
波托斯和阿拉米斯留下来，遭遇龙骑兵和瑞士人的笑话。

As to Bazin, he went and lay down on a truss of straw; and as he had more imagination than the Swiss, he dreamed that Aramis, having become pope, adorned his head with a cardinal’s hat.
至于巴赞，他走过去躺在一捆稻草上。由于他比瑞士人有更多的想象力，他梦见阿拉米斯成为教皇后，在他的头上戴了一顶红衣主教的帽子。

But, as we have said, Bazin had not, by his fortunate return, removed more than a part of the uneasiness which weighed upon the four friends. The days of expectation are long, and d’Artagnan, in particular, would have wagered that the days were forty-four hours. He forgot the necessary slowness of navigation; he exaggerated to himself the power of Milady. He credited this woman, who appeared to him the equal of a demon, with agents as supernatural as herself; at the least noise, he imagined himself about to be arrested, and that Planchet was being brought back to be confronted with himself and his friends. Still further, his confidence in the worthy Picard, at one time so great, diminished day by day. This anxiety became so great that it even extended to Aramis and Porthos. Athos alone remained unmoved, as if no danger hovered over him, and as if he breathed his customary atmosphere.
但是，正如我们所说，巴赞的幸运归来并没有消除困扰这四个朋友的部分不安。期待的日子很长，尤其是达达尼昂，他会打赌这些日子有四十四小时。他忘记了航行所必需的缓慢；他对自己夸大了米莱迪的力量。他相信这个在他看来就像恶魔一样的女人拥有像她一样超自然的代理人。只要有一点声响，他就会想象自己即将被捕，而普兰切特将被带回来与他自己和他的朋友们对峙。更进一步说，他对可敬的皮卡德的信心一度如此高，但现在却日益减弱。这种焦虑变得如此之大，甚至延伸到了阿拉米斯和波托斯。只有阿多斯一动不动，仿佛没有任何危险笼罩在他身上，仿佛呼吸着惯常的气氛。

On the sixteenth day, in particular, these signs were so strong in d’Artagnan and his two friends that they could not remain quiet in one place, and wandered about like ghosts on the road by which Planchet was expected.
特别是在第十六天，达达尼昂和他的两个朋友身上的这些迹象是如此强烈，以至于他们不能安静地呆在一个地方，像幽灵一样在普朗谢期待的路上徘徊。

‘Really,’ said Athos to them, ‘you are not men but children, to let a woman terrify you so! And what does it amount to, after all? To be imprisoned. Well, but we should be taken out of prison; Madame Bonacieux was released. To be decapitated? Why, every day in the trenches we go cheerfully to expose ourselves to worse than that—for a bullet may break a leg, and I am convinced a surgeon would give us more pain in cutting off a thigh than an executioner in cutting off a head. Wait quietly, then; in two hours, in four, in six hours at latest, Planchet will be here. He promised to be here, and I have very great faith in Planchet, who appears to me to be a very good lad.’
“真的，”阿多斯对他们说，“你们不是男人，而是孩子，竟让一个女人如此恐吓你们！”到底它意味着什么呢？被监禁。好吧，但我们应该被带出监狱；博纳瑟夫人被释放。要被斩首吗？为什么，每天在战壕里，我们都兴高采烈地将自己暴露在比这更糟糕的境地——因为一颗子弹可能会打断一条腿，而且我相信，外科医生砍掉大腿会给我们带来比刽子手砍掉头更痛苦的痛苦。 。那就静静地等待吧；两小时内，四小时内，最晚六小时内，普朗切特就会到这里。他答应会来这里，我对普朗切特很有信心，在我看来，他是一个非常好的小伙子。

‘But if he does not come?’ said d’Artagnan.
“但是如果他不来呢？”达达尼昂说。

‘Well, if he does not come, it will be because he has been delayed, that’s all. He may have fallen from his horse, he may have cut a caper from the deck; he may have traveled so fast against the wind as to have brought on a violent catarrh. Eh, gentlemen, let us reckon upon accidents! Life is a chaplet of little miseries which the philosopher counts with a smile. Be philosophers, as I am, gentlemen; sit down at the table and let us drink. Nothing makes the future look so bright as surveying it through a glass of chambertin.’
‘好吧，如果他不来，那是因为他耽搁了，仅此而已。他可能是从马背上摔下来的，也可能是从甲板上跳下来的。他可能逆风行驶得太快，导致了严重的卡他病。呃，先生们，让我们考虑一下意外吧！生活是一串小小的苦难，哲学家微笑着数着它们。先生们，像我一样成为哲学家；坐在桌边让我们喝酒。没有什么比透过一杯香贝丹来审视未来更能让未来变得光明的了。”

‘That’s all very well,’ replied d’Artagnan; ‘but I am tired of fearing when I open a fresh bottle that the wine may come from the cellar of Milady.’
“那很好，”达达尼昂回答道。 “但当我打开一瓶新酒时，我厌倦了担心酒可能来自米莱迪的地窖。”

‘You are very fastidious,’ said Athos; ‘such a beautiful woman!’
“你非常挑剔，”阿托斯说。 “多么美丽的女人啊！”

‘A woman of mark!’ said Porthos, with his loud laugh.
“一位有名望的女人！”波托斯大声笑道。

Athos started, passed his hand over his brow to remove the drops of perspiration that burst forth, and rose in his turn with a nervous movement he could not repress.
阿托斯吃了一惊，用手捂住额头，擦去涌出的汗珠，接着他又站起来，紧张得无法抑制。

The day, however, passed away; and the evening came on slowly, but finally it came. The bars were filled with drinkers. Athos, who had pocketed his share of the diamond, seldom quit the Parpaillot. He had found in M. de Busigny, who, by the by, had given them a magnificent dinner, a partner worthy of his company. They were playing together, as usual, when seven o’clock sounded; the patrol was heard passing to double the posts. At half past seven the retreat was sounded.
然而，这一天已经过去了。傍晚慢慢地过去了，但终于还是来了。酒吧里挤满了喝酒的人。阿托斯将自己那份钻石收入囊中，却很少离开帕帕约特。他发现德布西尼先生是一个值得他陪伴的伙伴，顺便说一句，他为他们准备了一顿丰盛的晚餐。当七点钟声响起时，他们像往常一样一起玩耍。听到巡逻队经过两个哨所。七点半，撤退的声音响起。

‘We are lost,’ said d’Artagnan, in the ear of Athos.
“我们迷路了，”达达尼昂在阿托斯耳边说道。

‘You mean to say we have lost,’ said Athos, quietly, drawing four pistoles from his pocket and throwing them upon the table. ‘Come, gentlemen,’ said he, ‘they are beating the tattoo. Let us to bed!’
“你的意思是说我们输了，”阿多斯轻声说道，从口袋里掏出四支手枪，扔到桌子上。 “来吧，先生们，”他说，“他们正在敲打纹身。”我们去睡觉吧！

And Athos went out of the Parpaillot, followed by d’Artagnan. Aramis came behind, giving his arm to Porthos. Aramis mumbled verses to himself, and Porthos from time to time pulled a hair or two from his mustache, in sign of despair.
阿多斯走出了帕帕约，达达尼昂跟在后面。阿拉米斯跟在后面，将手臂交给了波托斯。阿拉米斯自言自语地吟诵着诗句，波托斯时不时地从胡子上拔下一两根头发，以示绝望。

But all at once a shadow appeared in the darkness the outline of which was familiar to d’Artagnan, and a wellknown voice said, ‘Monsieur, I have brought your cloak; it is chilly this evening.’
但突然黑暗中出现了一个影子，其轮廓是达达尼昂所熟悉的，一个熟悉的声音说道：“先生，我把你的斗篷带来了；我已经把你的斗篷拿来了。”今天晚上很冷。”

‘Planchet!’ cried d’Artagnan, beside himself with joy.
“普兰切特！”达达尼昂高兴得发狂地喊道。

‘Planchet!’ repeated Aramis and Porthos.
“行星！”阿拉米斯和波托斯重复道。

‘Well, yes, Planchet, to be sure,’ said Athos, ‘what is there so astonishing in that? He promised to be back by eight o’clock, and eight is striking. Bravo, Planchet, you are a lad of your word, and if ever you leave your master, I will promise you a place in my service.’
“嗯，是的，普兰切特，当然，”阿多斯说，“这有什么令人惊讶的呢？他答应八点钟回来，八点钟很惊人。太棒了，普朗切特，你是一个言出必行的小伙子，如果你离开你的主人，我会答应你在我的服务中占有一席之地。

‘Oh, no, never,’ said Planchet, ‘I will never leave Monsieur d’Artagnan.’
“哦，不，永远不会，”普兰歇说，“我永远不会离开达达尼昂先生。”

At the same time d’Artagnan felt that Planchet slipped a note into his hand.
与此同时，达达尼昂感觉到普兰歇塞了一张纸条到他手里。

D’Artagnan felt a strong inclination to embrace Planchet as he had embraced him on his departure; but he feared lest this mark of affection, bestowed upon his lackey in the open street, might appear extraordinary to passers-by, and he restrained himself.
达达尼昂强烈地想要拥抱普朗谢，就像普朗谢离开时拥抱他一样。但他担心在大街上向他的仆人表达的这种爱意会在路人看来显得不同寻常，所以他克制住了自己。

‘I have the note,’ said he to Athos and to his friends.
“我有纸条，”他对阿托斯和他的朋友们说。

‘That’s well,’ said Athos, ‘let us go home and read it.’
“好吧，”阿托斯说，“我们回家看看吧。”

The note burned the hand of d’Artagnan. He wished to hasten their steps; but Athos took his arm and passed it under his own, and the young man was forced to regulate his pace by that of his friend.
这张纸条烧伤了达达尼昂的手。他希望加快他们的脚步。但阿托斯抓住了他的手臂，将它放在自己的手臂下，年轻人被迫按照他朋友的节奏来调整自己的步伐。

At length they reached the tent, lit a lamp, and while Planchet stood at the entrance that the four friends might not be surprised, d’Artagnan, with a trembling hand, broke the seal and opened the so anxiously expected letter.
最后，他们到达了帐篷，点燃了一盏灯，当普朗谢特站在门口以免四个朋友感到惊讶时，达达尼昂用颤抖的手打开了封条，打开了这封如此焦急地等待的信。

It contained half a line, in a hand perfectly British, and with a conciseness as perfectly Spartan:
上面有半行字，其笔迹完全是英国式的，简洁得就像斯巴达式的：

Thank you; be easy.
谢谢;放轻松。

d’Artagnan translated this for the others.
达达尼昂为其他人翻译了这个。

Athos took the letter from the hands of d’Artagnan, approached the lamp, set fire to the paper, and did not let go till it was reduced to a cinder.
阿多斯从达达尼昂手中接过信，走到灯前，点燃了信纸，直到它化为灰烬才放手。

Then, calling Planchet, he said, ‘Now, my lad, you may claim your seven hundred livres, but you did not run much risk with such a note as that.’
然后，他打电话给普朗切特，说道：“现在，我的小伙子，你可以领取你的七百里弗，但你并没有冒太大的风险，因为这样一张纸条。”

‘I am not to blame for having tried every means to compress it,’ said Planchet.
普兰切特说：“我不应该因为尝试了一切方法来压缩它而受到责备。”

‘Well!’ cried d’Artagnan, ‘tell us all about it.’
“好吧！”达达尼昂喊道，“把这一切都告诉我们吧。”

‘Dame, that’s a long job, monsieur.’
“女士，这是一项漫长的工作，先生。”

‘You are right, Planchet,’ said Athos; ‘besides, the tattoo has been sounded, and we should be observed if we kept a light burning much longer than the others.’
“你是对的，普朗切特，”阿托斯说。 “此外，纹身已经发出声音，我们应该观察我们是否让灯比其他人燃烧得更久。”

‘So be it,’ said d’Artagnan. ‘Go to bed, Planchet, and sleep soundly.’
“就这样吧，”达达尼昂说。 “去睡觉吧，普朗切特，睡个好觉。”

‘My faith, monsieur! that will be the first time I have done so for sixteen days.’
“我的信仰，先生！这将是十六天以来我第一次这样做。”

‘And me, too!’ said d’Artagnan.
“我也是！”达达尼昂说。

‘And me, too!’ said Porthos.
“我也是！”波托斯说道。

‘And me, too!’ said Aramis.
“还有我！”阿拉米斯说。

‘Well, if you will have the truth, and me, too!’ said Athos.
“好吧，如果你愿意知道真相的话，我也愿意！”阿多斯说道。

49 FATALITY
49 死亡人数

Meantime Milady, drunk with passion, roaring on the deck like a lioness that has been embarked, had been tempted to throw herself into the sea that she might regain the coast, for she could not get rid of the thought that she had been insulted by d’Artagnan, threatened by Athos, and that she had quit France without being revenged on them. This idea soon became so insupportable to her that at the risk of whatever terrible consequences might result to herself from it, she implored the captain to put her on shore; but the captain, eager to escape from his false position—placed between French and English cruisers, like the bat between the mice and the birds—was in great haste to regain England, and positively refused to obey what he took for a woman’s caprice, promising his passenger, who had been particularly recommended to him by the cardinal, to land her, if the sea and the French permitted him, at one of the ports of Brittany, either at Lorient or Brest. But the wind was contrary, the sea bad; they tacked and kept offshore. Nine days after leaving the Charente, pale with fatigue and vexation, Milady saw only the blue coasts of Finisterre appear.
与此同时，米莱迪沉浸在激情之中，在甲板上咆哮，就像一头登船的母狮，她很想跳进海里，这样她就可以重新回到海岸，因为她无法摆脱自己受到了侮辱的想法。达达尼昂受到阿托斯的威胁，并说她已经离开法国而没有向他们复仇。这个想法很快让她变得难以忍受，以至于冒着可能给自己带来任何可怕后果的风险，她恳求船长把她送上岸；但她却拒绝了。但是船长急于摆脱他的错误位置——位于法国和英国巡洋舰之间，就像老鼠和鸟之间的蝙蝠一样——急于夺回英格兰，并且断然拒绝服从他所认为的女人的任性，红衣主教特别向他推荐的乘客向他保证，如果海洋和法国人允许，他可以在布列塔尼的一个港口（洛里昂或布雷斯特）登陆。但风向相反，海面恶劣；他们逆风航行并留在海上。离开夏朗德省九天后，米莱迪因疲劳和烦恼而脸色苍白，只看到菲尼斯特雷蓝色的海岸出现。

She calculated that to cross this corner of France and return to the cardinal it would take her at least three days. Add another day for landing, and that would make four. Add these four to the nine others, that would be thirteen days lost—thirteen days, during which so many important events might pass in London. She reflected likewise that the cardinal would be furious at her return, and consequently would be more disposed to listen to the complaints brought against her than to the accusations she brought against others.
她计算了一下，穿过​​法国的这个角落，回到红衣主教身边，至少需要三天的时间。再加上着陆天，那就是四天了。将这四天加上其他九天，那就损失了十三天——这十三天，伦敦可能会发生许多重要的事件。她同样反映，红衣主教会对她的回归感到愤怒，因此更愿意倾听针对她的投诉，而不是她对他人的指控。

She allowed the vessel to pass Lorient and Brest without repeating her request to the captain, who, on his part, took care not to remind her of it. Milady therefore continued her voyage, and on the very day that Planchet embarked at Portsmouth for France, the messenger of his Eminence entered the port in triumph.
她允许船只通过洛里昂和布雷斯特，而没有向船长重复她的请求，而船长则小心翼翼地没有提醒她这一点。因此，米莱迪继续她的航行，就在普兰谢特从朴次茅斯启程前往法国的那天，陛下的使者凯旋进港。

All the city was agitated by an extraordinary movement. Four large vessels, recently built, had just been launched. At the end of the jetty, his clothes richly laced with gold, glittering, as was customary with him, with diamonds and precious stones, his hat ornamented with a white feather which drooped upon his shoulder, Buckingham was seen surrounded by a staff almost as brilliant as himself.
一场非同寻常的运动震动了整个城市。最近建造的四艘大型船只刚刚下水。在码头的尽头，白金汉的衣服镶满了金色，闪闪发光，就像他惯常的那样，镶有钻石和宝石，他的帽子装饰着一根白色的羽毛，垂在肩上，白金汉被一根手杖包围着，几乎就像他的手杖一样。和他一样辉煌。

It was one of those rare and beautiful days in winter when England remembers that there is a sun. The star of day, pale but nevertheless still splendid, was setting in the horizon, glorifying at once the heavens and the sea with bands of fire, and casting upon the towers and the old houses of the city a last ray of gold which made the windows sparkle like the reflection of a conflagration. Breathing that sea breeze, so much more invigorating and balsamic as the land is approached, contemplating all the power of those preparations she was commissioned to destroy, all the power of that army which she was to combat alone—she, a woman with a few bags of gold—Milady compared herself mentally to Judith, the terrible Jewess, when she penetrated the camp of the Assyrians and beheld the enormous mass of chariots, horses, men, and arms, which a gesture of her hand was to dissipate like a cloud of smoke.
这是冬天里罕见而美丽的日子之一，英格兰记得有太阳。白日之星，虽然苍白，但仍然灿烂，正在地平线上落下，立刻用火带照亮了天空和海洋，并在城市的塔楼和老房子上投射出最后一缕金色，使这座城市变得更加美丽。窗户像大火的反射一样闪闪发光。呼吸着海风，随着陆地的接近，更加令人振奋和芳香，思考着她被委托摧毁的那些准备工作的所有力量，思考着她将独自战斗的那支军队的所有力量——她，一个带着几个人的女人米莱迪在心里把自己比作朱迪丝，可怕的犹太女人，当她深入亚述人的营地，看到大量的战车、马匹、人和武器，她的一个手势就会像云一样消散的烟雾。

They entered the roadstead; but as they drew near in order to cast anchor, a little cutter, looking like a coastguard formidably armed, approached the merchant vessel and dropped into the sea a boat which directed its course to the ladder. This boat contained an officer, a mate, and eight rowers. The officer alone went on board, where he was received with all the deference inspired by the uniform.
他们进入了路边停泊处。但当他们靠近准备抛锚时，一艘看起来像全副武装的海岸警卫队的小快艇接近了商船，并将一艘小船扔进海里，小船的航向指向梯子。这艘船载有一名军官、一名大副和八名划手。这名军官独自登上了飞机，他受到了制服所激发的尊重。

The officer conversed a few instants with the captain, gave him several papers, of which he was the bearer, to read, and upon the order of the merchant captain the whole crew of the vessel, both passengers and sailors, were called upon deck.
军官与船长交谈了一会儿，给了他几份文件（他是这些文件的持有者）以供阅读，然后根据商船船长的命令，船上的全体船员，包括乘客和水手，都被召集到甲板上。

When this species of summons was made the officer inquired aloud the point of the brig’s departure, its route, its landings; and to all these questions the captain replied without difficulty and without hesitation. Then the officer began to pass in review all the people, one after the other, and stopping when he came to Milady, surveyed her very closely, but without addressing a single word to her.
当发出这种传唤时，军官大声询问双桅船的出发地点、航线、着陆点；对于所有这些问题，船长毫不犹豫地回答了。然后军官开始一个接一个地盘点所有的人，当他来到米莱迪面前时停了下来，仔细地打量着她，但没有对她说一句话。

He then returned to the captain, said a few words to him, and as if from that moment the vessel was under his command, he ordered a maneuver which the crew executed immediately. Then the vessel resumed its course, still escorted by the little cutter, which sailed side by side with it, menacing it with the mouths of its six cannon. The boat followed in the wake of the ship, a speck near the enormous mass.
然后他回到船长身边，对他说了几句话，仿佛从那一刻起，这艘船就在他的指挥之下了，他下令进行机动，船员们立即执行。然后，船继续航行，仍然有小快艇护航，小快艇与它并肩航行，用六门大炮的嘴威胁它。小船跟在船的后面，就像一个靠近巨大物体的斑点。

During the examination of Milady by the officer, as may well be imagined, Milady on her part was not less scrutinizing in her glances. But however great was the power of this woman with eyes of flame in reading the hearts of those whose secrets she wished to divine, she met this time with a countenance of such impassivity that no discovery followed her investigation. The officer who had stopped in front of her and studied her with so much care might have been twenty-five or twenty-six years of age. He was of pale complexion, with clear blue eyes, rather deeply set; his mouth, fine and well cut, remained motionless in its correct lines; his chin, strongly marked, denoted that strength of will which in the ordinary Britannic type denotes mostly nothing but obstinacy; a brow a little receding, as is proper for poets, enthusiasts, and soldiers, was scarcely shaded by short thin hair which, like the beard which covered the lower part of his face, was of a beautiful deep chestnut color.
军官对米莱迪进行检查的过程中，可以想象，米莱迪的目光同样是审视的。然而，无论这个有着火焰之眼的女人在读懂那些她想窥探其秘密的人的内心方面有多么强大的力量，她这次遇到的表情却如此冷漠，以致于她的调查没有发现任何发现。那位在她面前停下来如此仔细打量她的军官大概有二十五岁或二十六岁。他肤色苍白，有一双清澈的蓝眼睛，目光深邃。他的嘴巴精致而轮廓分明，一动不动地保持着正确的线条。他的下巴上有明显的标志，表明了他的意志力，而在普通的英国人中，这种意志力大多只代表着固执。他的眉毛稍稍后退，这对于诗人、狂热分子和士兵来说是合适的，几乎没有被稀疏的短发遮住，而他的头发就像遮住脸下半部分的胡须一样，是美丽的深栗色。

When they entered the port, it was already night. The fog increased the darkness, and formed round the sternlights and lanterns of the jetty a circle like that which surrounds the moon when the weather threatens to become rainy. The air they breathed was heavy, damp, and cold.
当他们进入港口时，已经是晚上了。雾增加了黑暗，在码头的尾灯和灯笼周围形成一个圆圈，就像天气即将下雨时围绕月亮的圆圈一样。他们呼吸的空气沉重、潮湿、寒冷。

Milady, that woman so courageous and firm, shivered in spite of herself.
米莱迪这个勇敢而坚定的女人，不由自主地颤抖起来。

The officer desired to have Milady’s packages pointed out to him, and ordered them to be placed in the boat. When this operation was complete, he invited her to descend by offering her his hand.
军官希望有人向他指出米莱迪的包裹，并命令将它们放在船上。手术完成后，他向她伸出了手，邀请她下来。

Milady looked at this man, and hesitated. ‘Who are you, sir,’ asked she, ‘who has the kindness to trouble yourself so particularly on my account?’
米莱迪看着这个男人，犹豫了。 “先生，您是谁，”她问道，“谁有这么好心，专门为了我而劳烦您呢？”

‘You may perceive, madame, by my uniform, that I am an officer in the English navy,’ replied the young man.
“夫人，从我的制服中您可以看出我是英国海军的一名军官，”年轻人回答道。

‘But is it the custom for the officers in the English navy to place themselves at the service of their female compatriots when they land in a port of Great Britain, and carry their gallantry so far as to conduct them ashore?’
“但是，当女同胞登陆英国港口时，英国海军军官们是否有这样的习惯：为她们的女同胞服务，并表现出英勇的态度，引导她们上岸呢？”

‘Yes, madame, it is the custom, not from gallantry but prudence, that in time of war foreigners should be conducted to particular hotels, in order that they may remain under the eye of the government until full information can be obtained about them.’
“是的，夫人，按照惯例，不是出于殷勤，而是出于谨慎，在战时外国人应该被带到特定的旅馆，以便他们可以一直处于政府的监视之下，直到获得有关他们的全部信息。 '

These words were pronounced with the most exact politeness and the most perfect calmness. Nevertheless, they had not the power of convincing Milady.
这句话是用最精确的礼貌和最完美的平静说出来的。然而，他们却没有说服米莱迪的力量。

‘But I am not a foreigner, sir,’ said she, with an accent as pure as ever was heard between Portsmouth and Manchester; ‘my name is Lady Clarik, and this measure—‘
“但我不是外国人，先生，”她说，口音一如既往地纯正，在朴茨茅斯和曼彻斯特之间都能听到。 “我的名字是克拉里克女士，这个措施——”

‘This measure is general, madame; and you will seek in vain to evade it.’
“这项措施是一般性的，女士；你会徒劳地寻求逃避它。

‘I will follow you, then, sir.’
“那我就跟着你了，先生。”

Accepting the hand of the officer, she began the descent of the ladder, at the foot of which the boat waited. The officer followed her. A large cloak was spread at the stern; the officer requested her to sit down upon this cloak, and placed himself beside her.
她握住军官的手，开始走下梯子，船就停在梯子的脚下。军官跟着她。船尾铺着一件大斗篷。军官请她坐在这件斗篷上，然后坐在她旁边。

‘Row!’ said he to the sailors.
“划！”他对水手们说。

The eight oars fell at once into the sea, making but a single sound, giving but a single stroke, and the boat seemed to fly over the surface of the water.
八支桨同时落入海中，只发出一声，只划了一下，船就好像在水面上飞了起来。

In five minutes they gained the land.
五分钟后他们就占领了土地。

The officer leaped to the pier, and offered his hand to Milady. A carriage was in waiting.
军官跳到码头上，向米莱迪伸出了手。一辆马车已经在等候。

‘Is this carriage for us?’ asked Milady.
“这辆马车适合我们吗？”米莱迪问道。

‘Yes, madame,’ replied the officer.
“是的，女士，”军官回答道。

‘The hotel, then, is far away?’
“那么，酒店远吗？”

‘At the other end of the town.’
“在城镇的另一端。”

‘Very well,’ said Milady; and she resolutely entered the carriage.
“很好，”米莱迪说。她毅然走进了马车。

The officer saw that the baggage was fastened carefully behind the carriage; and this operation ended, he took his place beside Milady, and shut the door.
军官看到行李被小心翼翼地固定在马车后面；这次行动结束后，他走到米莱迪身边，关上了门。

Immediately, without any order being given or his place of destination indicated, the coachman set off at a rapid pace, and plunged into the streets of the city.
随即，没有任何命令，也没有指明目的地，马车夫就快步出发，冲进了城市的街道。

So strange a reception naturally gave Milady ample matter for reflection; so seeing that the young officer did not seem at all disposed for conversation, she reclined in her corner of the carriage, and one after the other passed in review all the surmises which presented themselves to her mind.
如此奇怪的接待自然给了米莱迪足够的思考空间。看到这位年轻军官似乎根本不想说话，她就靠在车厢的角落里，一一回顾着她脑海中出现的所有猜测。

At the end of a quarter of an hour, however, surprised at the length of the journey, she leaned forward toward the door to see whither she was being conducted. Houses were no longer to be seen; trees appeared in the darkness like great black phantoms chasing one another. Milady shuddered.
然而，一刻钟过后，她对路程之长感到惊讶，于是她向前倾身向门口，想看看自己被带往何处。房子已经看不见了；树木出现在黑暗中，就像巨大的黑色幽灵互相追逐。米莱迪浑身颤抖。

‘But we are no longer in the city, sir,’ said she.
“但是我们已经不在城里了，先生，”她说。

The young officer preserved silence.
年轻军官保持沉默。

‘I beg you to understand, sir, I will go no farther unless you tell me whither you are taking me.’
“我请求您理解，先生，除非您告诉我您要带我去哪里，否则我不会再往前走了。”

This threat brought no reply.
这一威胁没有得到回应。

‘Oh, this is too much,’ cried Milady. ‘Help! help!’
“哦，这太过分了，”米莱迪喊道。 '帮助！帮助！'

No voice replied to hers; the carriage continued to roll on with rapidity; the officer seemed a statue.
没有人回应她的声音。马车继续快速前行。这位军官就像一尊雕像。

Milady looked at the officer with one of those terrible expressions peculiar to her countenance, and which so rarely failed of their effect; anger made her eyes flash in the darkness.
米莱迪用一种她脸上特有的可怕表情看着军官，这种表情很少会产生效果。愤怒让她的眼睛在黑暗中闪烁。

The young man remained immovable.
年轻人依然一动不动。

Milady tried to open the door in order to throw herself out.
米莱迪试图打开门，想跳出去。

‘Take care, madame,’ said the young man, coolly, ‘you will kill yourself in jumping.’
“小心点，夫人，”年轻人冷冷地说，“你跳下去会自杀的。”

Milady reseated herself, foaming. The officer leaned forward, looked at her in his turn, and appeared surprised to see that face, just before so beautiful, distorted with passion and almost hideous. The artful creature at once comprehended that she was injuring herself by allowing him thus to read her soul; she collected her features, and in a complaining voice said: ‘In the name of heaven, sir, tell me if it is to you, if it is to your government, if it is to an enemy I am to attribute the violence that is done me?’
米莱迪重新坐了起来，口吐白沫。军官向前倾身，轮流看着她，惊讶地发现那张脸，之前是那么美丽，却因激情而扭曲，近乎丑陋。这个狡猾的生物立刻明白，她让他这样读懂她的灵魂，是在伤害自己。她集中了表情，用抱怨的声音说道：“先生，以上帝之名，告诉我，如果是你干的，如果是你政府干的，如果是敌人干的，我会把这种暴力归咎于你。”干了我？

‘No violence will be offered to you, madame, and what happens to you is the result of a very simple measure which we are obliged to adopt with all who land in England.’
“不会向您提供暴力，夫人，发生在您身上的事情是我们有义务对所有登陆英格兰的人采取的非常简单的措施的结果。”

‘Then you don’t know me, sir?’
“那么您不认识我了，先生？”

‘It is the first time I have had the honor of seeing you.’
“这是我第一次有幸见到你。”

‘And on your honor, you have no cause of hatred against me?’
“以你的名誉来说，你对我没有任何仇恨吗？”

‘None, I swear to you.’
“没有，我向你发誓。”

There was so much serenity, coolness, mildness even, in the voice of the young man, that Milady felt reassured.
年轻人的声音里充满了平静、冷静、甚至温和，让米莱迪感到安心。

At length after a journey of nearly an hour, the carriage stopped before an iron gate, which closed an avenue leading to a castle severe in form, massive, and isolated. Then, as the wheels rolled over a fine gravel, Milady could hear a vast roaring, which she at once recognized as the noise of the sea dashing against some steep cliff.
经过近一个小时的路程，马车终于在一扇铁门前停了下来，铁门封闭了一条通往一座城堡的大道，城堡的形状严峻，规模宏大，又与世隔绝。然后，当车轮滚过细碎的砾石时，米莱迪听到一声巨大的轰鸣声，她立刻认出那是大海冲撞陡峭悬崖的声音。

The carriage passed under two arched gateways, and at length stopped in a court large, dark, and square. Almost immediately the door of the carriage was opened, the young man sprang lightly out and presented his hand to Milady, who leaned upon it, and in her turn alighted with tolerable calmness.
马车穿过两扇拱门，最后停在一个又大又黑的方形庭院里。几乎就在马车门打开的同时，年轻人轻轻地跳了出来，向米莱迪伸出了手，米莱迪靠在了手上，而她也平静地下了车。

‘Still, then, I am a prisoner,’ said Milady, looking around her, and bringing back her eyes with a most gracious smile to the young officer; ‘but I feel assured it will not be for long,’ added she. ‘My own conscience and your politeness, sir, are the guarantees of that.’
“尽管如此，我还是个囚犯，”米拉迪环顾四周说道，然后又带着最亲切的微笑看着年轻的军官。 “但我确信这种情况不会持续太久，”她补充道。 “先生，我自己的良心和你的礼貌就是这一点的保证。”

However flattering this compliment, the officer made no reply; but drawing from his belt a little silver whistle, such as boatswains use in ships of war, he whistled three times, with three different modulations. Immediately several men appeared, who unharnessed the smoking horses, and put the carriage into a coach house.
不管这个恭维多么恭维，这位军官都没有回答。但他从腰带上掏出一把银色的小哨子，就像战船上水手长所用的那样，他吹了三声口哨，用了三种不同的调式。立刻有几个人出现，他们解下了冒烟的马匹，把马车放进了马车房。

Then the officer, with the same calm politeness, invited his prisoner to enter the house. She, with a still-smiling countenance, took his arm, and passed with him under a low arched door, which by a vaulted passage, lighted only at the farther end, led to a stone staircase around an angle of stone. They then came to a massive door, which after the introduction into the lock of a key which the young man carried with him, turned heavily upon its hinges, and disclosed the chamber destined for Milady.
然后，军官以同样平静的礼貌邀请他的囚犯进屋。她面带微笑，挽着他的手臂，和他一起从一扇低矮的拱形门下经过，门旁有一条拱形通道，只有另一端有灯光，通向一个围绕着石头角的石阶。然后他们来到一扇巨大的门前，年轻人随身携带的一把钥匙插入门锁后，门重重地转动铰链，露出了为米莱迪准备的房间。

With a single glance the prisoner took in the apartment in its minutest details. It was a chamber whose furniture was at once appropriate for a prisoner or a free man; and yet bars at the windows and outside bolts at the door decided the question in favor of the prison.
囚犯一眼就看清了公寓里最细微的细节。这是一个房间，里面的家具既适合囚犯，也适合自由人。然而窗户上的栅栏和门上的外插销决定了这个问题有利于监狱。

In an instant all the strength of mind of this creature, though drawn from the most vigorous sources, abandoned her; she sank into a large easy chair, with her arms crossed, her head lowered, and expecting every instant to see a judge enter to interrogate her.
刹那间，这个生物的所有精神力量，尽管是从最有力的源泉中汲取的，都抛弃了她。她坐在一张大安乐椅上，双臂交叉，低着头，时刻期待着法官进来审问她。

But no one entered except two or three marines, who brought her trunks and packages, deposited them in a corner, and retired without speaking.
但除了两三个海军陆战队员，没有人进来，他们给她带来了行李箱和包裹，把它们放在一个角落里，然后一言不发地退了出去。

The officer superintended all these details with the same calmness Milady had constantly seen in him, never pronouncing a word himself, and making himself obeyed by a gesture of his hand or a sound of his whistle.
军官以米莱迪经常在他身上看到的同样的冷静来监督所有这些细节，他自己从不发出一个字，只是通过一个手势或一声哨子让自己服从。

It might have been said that between this man and his inferiors spoken language did not exist, or had become useless.
可以说，这个人和他的下等人之间没有语言，或者已经变得毫无用处。

At length Milady could hold out no longer; she broke the silence. ‘In the name of heaven, sir,’ cried she, ‘what means all that is passing? Put an end to my doubts; I have courage enough for any danger I can foresee, for every misfortune which I understand. Where am I, and why am I here? If I am free, why these bars and these doors? If I am a prisoner, what crime have I committed?’
米莱迪终于坚持不住了。她打破了沉默。 “以天堂的名义，先生，”她喊道，“正在发生的这一切意味着什么？消除我的疑虑；我有足够的勇气来应对我可以预见的任何危险，以及我所理解的每一个不幸。我在哪里，我为什么在这里？如果我有空，为什么要这些酒吧和这些门？如果我是囚犯，我犯了什么罪？

‘You are here in the apartment destined for you, madame. I received orders to go and take charge of you on the sea, and to conduct you to this castle. This order I believe I have accomplished with all the exactness of a soldier, but also with the courtesy of a gentleman. There terminates, at least to the present moment, the duty I had to fulfill toward you; the rest concerns another person.’
“您现在在为您指定的公寓里，女士。我接到命令，要去海上照顾你，并引导你到这座城堡。我相信我以军人的严谨态度和绅士的礼貌完成了这个命令。至少在目前，我对你必须履行的义务就到此为止了；其余的则与另一个人有关。

‘And who is that other person?’ asked Milady, warmly. ‘Can you not tell me his name?’
“那另一个人是谁？”米莱迪热情地问道。 “你能不能告诉我他的名字？”

At the moment a great jingling of spurs was heard on the stairs. Some voices passed and faded away, and the sound of a single footstep approached the door.
就在这时，楼梯上传来一声巨大的马刺叮叮当当的声音。一些声音过去了又消失了，一个脚步声靠近了门口。

‘That person is here, madame,’ said the officer, leaving the entrance open, and drawing himself up in an attitude of respect.
“那个人在这里，女士。”军官说着，让入口敞开，并摆出尊敬的态度。

At the same time the door opened; a man appeared on the threshold. He was without a hat, carried a sword, and flourished a handkerchief in his hand.
与此同时，门开了；一个男人出现在门槛上。他没戴帽子，拿着一把剑，手里还挥舞着一块手帕。

Milady thought she recognized this shadow in the gloom; she supported herself with one hand upon the arm of the chair, and advanced her head as if to meet a certainty.
米莱迪觉得她在黑暗中认出了这个影子。她用一只手撑在椅子的扶手上，抬起头，仿佛要迎接一个确定的事情。

The stranger advanced slowly, and as he advanced, after entering into the circle of light projected by the lamp, Milady involuntarily drew back.
陌生人缓缓前行，随着他的前行，进入灯光投射的光圈后，米莱迪不由自主地后退了一步。

Then when she had no longer any doubt, she cried, in a state of stupor, ‘What, my brother, is it you?’
当她不再怀疑时，她恍惚地喊道：“什么，我的兄弟，是你吗？”

‘Yes, fair lady!’ replied Lord de Winter, making a bow, half courteous, half ironical; ‘it is I, myself.’
“是的，美丽的女士！”德温特勋爵回答道，半礼貌半讽刺地鞠了一躬。 “是我，我自己。”

‘But this castle, then?’
“那么这座城堡呢？”

‘Is mine.’
'是我的。'

‘This chamber?’
“这个房间？”

‘Is yours.’
'是你的。'

‘I am, then, your prisoner?’
“那么我就是你的囚犯了？”

‘Nearly so.’
“几乎如此。”

‘But this is a frightful abuse of power!’
“但这是可怕的滥用权力！”

‘No high-sounding words! Let us sit down and chat quietly, as brother and sister ought to do.’
‘没有什么冠冕堂皇的话！让我们坐下来安静地聊天，就像兄弟姐妹应该做的那样。

Then, turning toward the door, and seeing that the young officer was waiting for his last orders, he said. ‘All is well, I thank you; now leave us alone, Mr. Felton.’
然后，他转向门口，看到年轻军官正在等待他最后的命令，他说道。 “一切都好，谢谢你；现在别打扰我们了，费尔顿先生。”

50 CHAT BETWEEN BROTHER AND SISTER
第50章 兄妹之间的聊天

During the time which Lord de Winter took to shut the door, close a shutter, and draw a chair near to his sister-in-law’s fauteuil, Milady, anxiously thoughtful, plunged her glance into the depths of possibility, and discovered all the plan, of which she could not even obtain a glance as long as she was ignorant into whose hands she had fallen. She knew her brother-in-law to be a worthy gentleman, a bold hunter, an intrepid player, enterprising with women, but by no means remarkable for his skill in intrigues. How had he discovered her arrival, and caused her to be seized? Why did he detain her?
就在德温特勋爵关上门、关上百叶窗、把一把椅子拉到他嫂子家附近的这段时间里，米莱迪焦急地若有所思，把目光投向了可能性的深处，发现了所有的计划。只要她不知道自己落入了谁的手中，她就连看一眼都看不到。她知道她的姐夫是一位可敬的绅士，一位勇敢的猎人，一位勇敢的玩家，对女人很有进取心，但他的阴谋诡计绝非出类拔萃。他怎么会发现她的到来，并让她被抓走？他为什么拘留她？

Athos had dropped some words which proved that the conversation she had with the cardinal had fallen into outside ears; but she could not suppose that he had dug a countermine so promptly and so boldly. She rather feared that her preceding operations in England might have been discovered. Buckingham might have guessed that it was she who had cut off the two studs, and avenge himself for that little treachery; but Buckingham was incapable of going to any excess against a woman, particularly if that woman was supposed to have acted from a feeling of jealousy.
阿多斯说了一些话，证明她和红衣主教的谈话已经落入了外界的耳朵。但她无法想象他会如此迅速、如此大胆地挖地雷。她相当担心她之前在英国的行动可能会被发现。白金汉可能猜到是她砍掉了两颗耳钉，并为自己的小背叛报仇。但白金汉不能对一个女人采取任何过分的行为，特别是如果那个女人的行为是出于嫉妒的感觉。

This supposition appeared to her most reasonable. It seemed to her that they wanted to revenge the past, and not to anticipate the future. At all events, she congratulated herself upon having fallen into the hands of her brother-in-law, with whom she reckoned she could deal very easily, rather than into the hands of an acknowledged and intelligent enemy.
这个推测在她看来是最合理的。在她看来，他们只是想报复过去，而不是预见未来。无论如何，她庆幸自己落入了姐夫的手中，她认为自己可以很容易地对付她，而不是落入一个公认的、聪明的敌人手中。

‘Yes, let us chat, brother,’ said she, with a kind of cheerfulness, decided as she was to draw from the conversation, in spite of all the dissimulation Lord de Winter could bring, the revelations of which she stood in need to regulate her future conduct.
“是的，让我们聊聊吧，兄弟，”她带着一种愉快的心情说道，尽管德温特勋爵极力掩饰，但她还是需要从谈话中汲取教训。规范她今后的行为。

‘You have, then, decided to come to England again,’ said Lord de Winter, ‘in spite of the resolutions you so often expressed in Paris never to set your feet on British ground?’
“那么，你决定再次来到英国，”德温特勋爵说道，“尽管你在巴黎经常表示不再踏上英国的土地？”

Milady replied to this question by another question. ‘To begin with, tell me,’ said she, ‘how have you watched me so closely as to be aware beforehand not only of my arrival, but even of the day, the hour, and the port at which I should arrive?’
米莱迪用另一个问题回答了这个问题。 “首先，告诉我，”她说，“你是如何如此密切地观察我，不仅提前知道我的到来，而且还知道我应该到达的日期、时间和港口？”

Lord de Winter adopted the same tactics as Milady, thinking that as his sister-in-law employed them they must be the best.
德温特勋爵采取了与米莱迪相同的策略，认为既然他的嫂子雇用了他们，他们一定是最好的。

‘But tell me, my dear sister,’ replied he, ‘what makes you come to England?’
“但是请告诉我，我亲爱的妹妹，”他回答道，“是什么让你来到英国的？”

‘I come to see you,’ replied Milady, without knowing how much she aggravated by this reply the suspicions to which d’Artagnan’s letter had given birth in the mind of her brother-in-law, and only desiring to gain the good will of her auditor by a falsehood.
“我来见你，”米莱迪回答道，她不知道自己的回答使达达尼昂的信在她姐夫心中产生的怀疑有多么严重，她只是想博取善意。她的审计员的谎言。

‘Ah, to see me?’ said de Winter, cunningly.
“啊，来见我吗？”德温特狡猾地说。

‘To be sure, to see you. What is there astonishing in that?’
‘当然，是为了见你。这有什么令人惊奇的呢？

‘And you had no other object in coming to England but to see me?’
“你来英国除了来看我之外没有其他目的吗？”

‘No.’
'不。'

‘So it was for me alone you have taken the trouble to cross the Channel?’
“这么说，你不辞辛劳地横渡英吉利海峡只是为了我一个人？”

‘For you alone.’
“只为你一个人。”

‘The deuce! What tenderness, my sister!’
‘平局！多么温柔啊，我的妹妹！

‘But am I not your nearest relative?’ demanded Milady, with a tone of the most touching ingenuousness.
“可是我不是你最近的亲戚吗？”米莱迪用一种最感人的天真语气问道。

‘And my only heir, are you not?’ said Lord de Winter in his turn, fixing his eyes on those of Milady.
“我唯一的继承人，不是吗？”德温特勋爵轮到他说道，眼睛盯着米莱迪。

Whatever command she had over herself, Milady could not help starting; and as in pronouncing the last words Lord de Winter placed his hand upon the arm of his sister, this start did not escape him.
无论米莱迪对自己有什么掌控，她都情不自禁地开始了。德·温特勋爵在宣布最后一句话时，把手放在了妹妹的手臂上，他并没有逃脱这一惊吓。

In fact, the blow was direct and severe. The first idea that occurred to Milady’s mind was that she had been betrayed by Kitty, and that she had recounted to the baron the selfish aversion toward himself of which she had imprudently allowed some marks to escape before her servant. She also recollected the furious and imprudent attack she had made upon d’Artagnan when he spared the life of her brother.
事实上，这个打击是直接而严重的。米莱迪脑海中闪现的第一个想法是，她被基蒂背叛了，她向男爵讲述了她对自己的自私厌恶，她不谨慎地让一些痕迹在她的仆人面前流露出来。她还记得当达达尼昂饶了她哥哥的命时，她对他发起了猛烈而轻率的攻击。

‘I do not understand, my Lord,’ said she, in order to gain time and make her adversary speak out. ‘What do you mean to say? Is there any secret meaning concealed beneath your words?’
“我不明白，陛下，”她说，以便赢得时间并让她的对手说出来。 ‘你想说什么？你这话里是不是藏着什么不可告人的秘密？

‘Oh, my God, no!’ said Lord de Winter, with apparent good nature. ‘You wish to see me, and you come to England. I learn this desire, or rather I suspect that you feel it; and in order to spare you all the annoyances of a nocturnal arrival in a port and all the fatigues of landing, I send one of my officers to meet you, I place a carriage at his orders, and he brings you hither to this castle, of which I am governor, whither I come every day, and where, in order to satisfy our mutual desire of seeing each other, I have prepared you a chamber. What is there more astonishing in all that I have said to you than in what you have told me?’
“哦，天啊，不！”德温特勋爵说道，他的脾气明显很好。 ‘你想见我，就来英国。我了解到这种渴望，或者更确切地说，我怀疑你也感受到了这种渴望；为了让您免去夜间抵达港口的所有烦恼和登陆的所有疲劳，我派了一名军官来迎接您，我按照他的命令安排了一辆马车，然后他带您来到这座城堡，我是那里的总督，我每天都去那里，为了满足我们彼此相见的愿望，我为你们准备了一间房间。我对你所说的一切，还有什么比你告诉我的更令人惊讶的呢？

‘No; what I think astonishing is that you should expect my coming.’
'不;我认为令人惊讶的是你竟然期待我的到来。

‘And yet that is the most simple thing in the world, my dear sister. Have you not observed that the captain of your little vessel, on entering the roadstead, sent forward, in order to obtain permission to enter the port, a little boat bearing his logbook and the register of his voyagers? I am commandant of the port. They brought me that book. I recognized your name in it. My heart told me what your mouth has just confirmed—that is to say, with what view you have exposed yourself to the dangers of a sea so perilous, or at least so troublesome at this moment—and I sent my cutter to meet you. You know the rest.’
“然而，这是世界上最简单的事情，我亲爱的妹妹。难道你没有注意到，你的小船的船长在进入停泊地时，为了获得进入港口的许可，派出一艘小船，载有他的航海日志和航海者登记册吗？我是港口的指挥官。他们给我带来了那本书。我在里面认出了你的名字。我的心告诉了我你刚刚证实的事情——也就是说，你以什么观点将自己暴露在如此危险的海洋中，或者至少在此刻如此麻烦——然后我派了我的快艇去见你。剩下的你都知道。

Milady knew that Lord de Winter lied, and she was the more alarmed.
米莱迪知道德温特勋爵撒谎了，她更加惊慌了。

‘My brother,’ continued she, ‘was not that my Lord Buckingham whom I saw on the jetty this evening as we arrived?’
“我的兄弟，”她继续说道，“这不是我今晚到达时在码头上看到的白金汉勋爵吗？”

‘Himself. Ah, I can understand how the sight of him struck you,’ replied Lord de Winter. ‘You came from a country where he must be very much talked of, and I know that his armaments against France greatly engage the attention of your friend the cardinal.’
‘他自己。啊，我能理解你看到他时的感受。”温特勋爵回答道。 “你来自一个他一定会被广泛谈论的国家，我知道他针对法国的武器极大地引起了你的红衣主教朋友的注意。”

‘My friend the cardinal!’ cried Milady, seeing that on this point as on the other Lord de Winter seemed well instructed.
“我的红衣主教朋友！”米莱迪喊道，她看到德温特勋爵在这一点上和在另一点上似乎都受到了很好的指导。

‘Is he not your friend?’ replied the baron, negligently. ‘Ah, pardon! I thought so; but we will return to my Lord Duke presently. Let us not depart from the sentimental turn our conversation had taken. You came, you say, to see me?’
“他不是你的朋友吗？”男爵漫不经心地回答道。 ‘啊，请原谅！我是这么想的;但我们很快就会回到公爵大人身边。让我们不要偏离我们谈话所采取的感性的转变。你说你是来看我的？

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘Well, I reply that you shall be served to the height of your wishes, and that we shall see each other every day.’
“好吧，我回答说，您将得到最大程度的服务，我们将每天见面。”

‘Am I, then, to remain here eternally?’ demanded Milady, with a certain terror.
“那么，我要永远留在这里吗？”米莱迪带着某种恐惧问道。

‘Do you find yourself badly lodged, sister? Demand anything you want, and I will hasten to have you furnished with it.’
“姐姐，你觉得自己住得不好吗？你想要什么，我都会赶紧给你准备。

‘But I have neither my women nor my servants.’
“但我既没有我的女人，也没有我的仆人。”

‘You shall have all, madame. Tell me on what footing your household was established by your first husband, and although I am only your brother-in-law, I will arrange one similar.’
‘你将拥有一切，夫人。告诉我你的家庭是由你的第一任丈夫建立的，虽然我只是你的妹夫，但我会安排一个类似的。

‘My first husband!’ cried Milady, looking at Lord de Winter with eyes almost starting from their sockets.
“我的第一任丈夫！”米莱迪喊道，眼睛几乎要从眼窝里瞪出来，看着德温特勋爵。

‘Yes, your French husband. I don’t speak of my brother. If you have forgotten, as he is still living, I can write to him and he will send me information on the subject.’
“是的，你的法国丈夫。”我不说我的兄弟。如果你忘记了，因为他还活着，我可以写信给他，他会向我发送有关该主题的信息。

A cold sweat burst from the brow of Milady.
米莱迪的额头上冒出了冷汗。

‘You jest!’ said she, in a hollow voice.
“你开玩笑吧！”她声音空洞地说。

‘Do I look so?’ asked the baron, rising and going a step backward.
“我看起来是这样吗？”男爵问道，站起身来，向后退了一步。

‘Or rather you insult me,’ continued she, pressing with her stiffened hands the two arms of her easy chair, and raising herself upon her wrists.
“或者更确切地说，你侮辱了我，”她继续说道，用僵硬的双手压住安乐椅的两条扶手，然后用手腕撑起身子。

‘I insult you!’ said Lord de Winter, with contempt. ‘In truth, madame, do you think that can be possible?’
“我侮辱你！”德温特勋爵轻蔑地说。 “说实话，女士，您认为这可能吗？”

‘Indeed, sir,’ said Milady, ‘you must be either drunk or mad. Leave the room, and send me a woman.’
“确实，先生，”米莱迪说道，“您一定是喝醉了，或者是疯了。离开房间，给我派一个女人来。

‘Women are very indiscreet, my sister. Cannot I serve you as a waiting maid? By that means all our secrets will remain in the family.’
“女人都是很不检点的，我的妹妹。我不能给你当侍女吗？这样一来，我们所有的秘密都将留在家里。”

‘Insolent!’ cried Milady; and as if acted upon by a spring, she bounded toward the baron, who awaited her attack with his arms crossed, but nevertheless with one hand on the hilt of his sword.
“无礼！”米莱迪喊道。仿佛受到了弹簧的作用，她跳向男爵，男爵交叉双臂等待着她的攻击，但一只手仍然放在剑柄上。

‘Come!’ said he. ‘I know you are accustomed to assassinate people; but I warn you I shall defend myself, even against you.’
“来吧！”他说。 ‘我知道你习惯于杀人；但我警告你，我会保护自己，即使是针对你。”

‘You are right,’ said Milady. ‘You have all the appearance of being cowardly enough to lift your hand against a woman.’
“你说得对，”米莱迪说。 “你这副样子，真是胆小到敢对女人动手。”

‘Perhaps so; and I have an excuse, for mine would not be the first hand of a man that has been placed upon you, I imagine.’
'也许是这样；我有一个借口，因为我想我不会是对你下手的人的第一手。

And the baron pointed, with a slow and accusing gesture, to the left shoulder of Milady, which he almost touched with his finger.
男爵以一种缓慢而指责的姿势指着米莱迪的左肩，他的手指差点就碰到了。

Milady uttered a deep, inward shriek, and retreated to a corner of the room like a panther which crouches for a spring.
米莱迪发出一声低沉的、内心的尖叫，像一头蹲伏在地的豹子一样退到了房间的一角。

‘Oh, growl as much as you please,’ cried Lord de Winter, ‘but don’t try to bite, for I warn you that it would be to your disadvantage. There are here no procurators who regulate successions beforehand. There is no knight-errant to come and seek a quarrel with me on account of the fair lady I detain a prisoner; but I have judges quite ready who will quickly dispose of a woman so shameless as to glide, a bigamist, into the bed of Lord de Winter, my brother. And these judges, I warn you, will soon send you to an executioner who will make both your shoulders alike.’
“哦，你想怎么咆哮就怎么咆哮吧，”德温特勋爵喊道，“但不要试图咬人，因为我警告你，这对你不利。这里没有检察官预先规范继承。没有游侠来与我争吵，因为我囚禁了那位美丽的女士；但我已经准备好了法官，他们会很快处理掉一个如此无耻的女人，一个重婚犯，滑进了我的兄弟德温特勋爵的床上。我警告你，这些法官很快就会把你送到刽子手那里，他会让你的肩膀变得一样。

The eyes of Milady darted such flashes that although he was a man and armed before an unarmed woman, he felt the chill of fear glide through his whole frame. However, he continued all the same, but with increasing warmth: ‘Yes, I can very well understand that after having inherited the fortune of my brother it would be very agreeable to you to be my heir likewise; but know beforehand, if you kill me or cause me to be killed, my precautions are taken. Not a penny of what I possess will pass into your hands. Were you not already rich enough—you who possess nearly a million? And could you not stop your fatal career, if you did not do evil for the infinite and supreme joy of doing it? Oh, be assured, if the memory of my brother were not sacred to me, you should rot in a state dungeon or satisfy the curiosity of sailors at Tyburn. I will be silent, but you must endure your captivity quietly. In fifteen or twenty days I shall set out for La Rochelle with the army; but on the eve of my departure a vessel which I shall see depart will take you hence and convey you to our colonies in the south. And be assured that you shall be accompanied by one who will blow your brains out at the first attempt you make to return to England or the Continent.’
米莱迪的眼睛里闪烁着如此的光芒，尽管他是一个男人，在一个手无寸铁的女人面前全副武装，但他还是感到恐惧的寒意掠过他的全身。然而，他仍然继续说道，但语气却越来越热情：“是的，我非常理解，在继承了我兄弟的财产之后，你也很乐意成为我的继承人；”但请事先知道，如果你杀了我或导致我被杀，我会采取预防措施。我所拥有的一分钱​​都不会落到你手里。拥有近百万的你还不够富有吗？如果你不是为了获得无限的、至高无上的快乐而作恶，你难道就不能停止你致命的事业吗？哦，请放心，如果我哥哥的记忆对我来说不是神圣的，你应该在国家地牢里腐烂，或者满足泰伯恩水手的好奇心。我会沉默，但你必须安静地忍受你的囚禁。十五或二十天后，我将率领军队出发前往拉罗谢尔。但在我出发前夕，我将看到一艘离开的船只将把你们带到这里，并将你们带到我们南方的殖民地。请放心，当你第一次尝试返回英格兰或欧洲大陆时，会有一个人陪伴你，他会打爆你的大脑。

Milady listened with an attention that dilated her inflamed eyes.
米莱迪全神贯注地听着，她红肿的眼睛睁大了。

‘Yes, at present,’ continued Lord de Winter, ‘you will remain in this castle. The walls are thick, the doors strong, and the bars solid; besides, your window opens immediately over the sea. The men of my crew, who are devoted to me for life and death, mount guard around this apartment, and watch all the passages that lead to the courtyard. Even if you gained the yard, there would still be three iron gates for you to pass. The order is positive. A step, a gesture, a word, on your part, denoting an effort to escape, and you are to be fired upon. If they kill you, English justice will be under an obligation to me for having saved it trouble. Ah! I see your features regain their calmness, your countenance recovers its assurance. You are saying to yourself: ‘Fifteen days, twenty days? Bah! I have an inventive mind; before that is expired some idea will occur to me. I have an infernal spirit. I shall meet with a victim. Before fifteen days are gone by I shall be away from here.’ Ah, try it!’
“是的，目前，”德温特勋爵继续说道，“你将留在这座城堡里。墙厚，门坚固，栅栏坚固；此外，您的窗户打开后正对着大海。我的船员们对我生死忠心，他们在这间公寓周围站岗，看守所有通向庭院的通道。就算你获得了院子，也还是有三道铁门需要你通过。订单是积极的。你的一个脚步、一个手势、一个词，如果表明你试图逃跑，你就会遭到射击。如果他们杀了你，英国司法部门就会对我负有责任，因为我帮它避免了麻烦。啊!我看到你的表情恢复了平静，你的表情恢复了自信。你对自己说：‘十五天，二十天？呸!我有一个创造性的头脑；在那之前，我会想到一些想法。我有一个地狱般的灵魂。我将会见一位受害者。十五天之前我就会离开这里。’啊，试试吧！’

Milady, finding her thoughts betrayed, dug her nails into her flesh to subdue every emotion that might give to her face any expression except agony.
米莱迪发现自己的想法被出卖了，她把指甲深深地扎进肉里，以抑制除了痛苦之外脸上可能出现的任何情绪。

Lord de Winter continued: ‘The officer who commands here in my absence you have already seen, and therefore know him. He knows how, as you must have observed, to obey an order—for you did not, I am sure, come from Portsmouth hither without endeavoring to make him speak. What do you say of him? Could a statue of marble have been more impassive and more mute? You have already tried the power of your seductions upon many men, and unfortunately you have always succeeded; but I give you leave to try them upon this one. PARDIEU! if you succeed with him, I pronounce you the demon himself.’
德温特勋爵继续说道：“在我不在期间指挥这里的军官你已经见过，因此认识他。正如你一定已经观察到的那样，他知道如何服从命令——我确信，你从朴茨茅斯来到这里，一定会努力让他说话。你觉得他怎么样？大理石雕像还能更冷漠、更沉默吗？你已经在很多男人身上尝试过你的诱惑力，但不幸的是你总是成功。但我允许你尝试一下这个。帕迪尤！如果你成功对付他，我就宣布你就是恶魔。”

He went toward the door and opened it hastily.
他走到门边，连忙打开门。

‘Call Mr. Felton,’ said he. ‘Wait a minute longer, and I will introduce him to you.’
“打电话给费尔顿先生，”他说。 “再等一下，我把他介绍给你。”

There followed between these two personages a strange silence, during which the sound of a slow and regular step was heard approaching. Shortly a human form appeared in the shade of the corridor, and the young lieutenant, with whom we are already acquainted, stopped at the threshold to receive the orders of the baron.
两人之间陷入了一阵诡异的沉默，其间传来一阵缓慢而有规律的脚步声靠近。不久，走廊的阴影里出现了一个人形，我们已经熟悉的年轻中尉在门口停下来接受男爵的命令。

‘Come in, my dear John,’ said Lord de Winter, ‘come in, and shut the door.’
“进来吧，我亲爱的约翰，”德温特勋爵说道，“进来吧，把门关上。”

The young officer entered.
年轻军官走了进来。

‘Now,’ said the baron, ‘look at this woman. She is young; she is beautiful; she possesses all earthly seductions. Well, she is a monster, who, at twenty-five years of age, has been guilty of as many crimes as you could read of in a year in the archives of our tribunals. Her voice prejudices her hearers in her favor; her beauty serves as a bait to her victims; her body even pays what she promises—I must do her that justice. She will try to seduce you, perhaps she will try to kill you. I have extricated you from misery, Felton; I have caused you to be named lieutenant; I once saved your life, you know on what occasion. I am for you not only a protector, but a friend; not only a benefactor, but a father. This woman has come back again into England for the purpose of conspiring against my life. I hold this serpent in my hands. Well, I call you, and say to you: Friend Felton, John, my child, guard me, and more particularly guard yourself, against this woman. Swear, by your hopes of salvation, to keep her safely for the chastisement she has merited. John Felton, I trust your word! John Felton, I put faith in your loyalty!’
“现在，”男爵说，“看看这个女人。”她很年轻;她很漂亮;她拥有世间所有的诱惑。好吧，她是个怪物，二十五岁的时候，你在我们法庭的档案中一年内就犯下了尽可能多的罪行。她的声音让听众对她产生好感。她的美貌成了受害者的诱饵；她的身体甚至兑现了她的承诺——我必须公正地对待她。她会试图引诱你，也许她会试图杀死你。我已经把你从痛苦中解救出来了，费尔顿；我已任命你为中尉；我曾经救过你的命，你知道在什么场合。我对你来说不仅是保护者，而且是朋友；不仅是恩人，更是父亲。这个女人再次回到英国，目的是密谋谋害我的生命。我把这条蛇握在手里。好吧，我打电话给你，对你说：费尔顿朋友，约翰，我的孩子，保护我，尤其是保护你自己，远离这个女人。以你得救的希望发誓，一定会保证她的安全，让她受到应有的惩罚。约翰·费尔顿，我相信你的话！约翰·费尔顿，我相信你的忠诚！

‘My Lord,’ said the young officer, summoning to his mild countenance all the hatred he could find in his heart, ‘my Lord, I swear all shall be done as you desire.’
“大人，”年轻的军官说道，他的脸上充满了心中的仇恨，“大人，我发誓一切都会按照您的意愿进行。”

Milady received this look like a resigned victim; it was impossible to imagine a more submissive or a more mild expression than that which prevailed on her beautiful countenance. Lord de Winter himself could scarcely recognize the tigress who, a minute before, prepared apparently for a fight.
米莱迪看上去就像是一个听天由命的受害者。很难想象还有比她美丽的脸上的表情更顺从或更温和的表情了。德温特勋爵本人几乎认不出那只母老虎，一分钟前它显然已经做好了战斗的准备。

‘She is not to leave this chamber, understand, John,’ continued the baron. ‘She is to correspond with nobody; she is to speak to no one but you—if you will do her the honor to address a word to her.’
“她不能离开这个房间，明白，约翰，”男爵继续说道。 ‘她不能与任何人通信；除了你之外，她不能和任何人说话——如果你能荣幸地对她说一句话的话。

‘That is sufficient, my Lord! I have sworn.’
‘这就足够了，陛下！我已经发誓了。

‘And now, madame, try to make your peace with God, for you are judged by men!’
“现在，夫人，尝试与上帝和解，因为你受到了人们的审判！”

Milady let her head sink, as if crushed by this sentence. Lord de Winter went out, making a sign to Felton, who followed him, shutting the door after him.
米莱迪低下了头，仿佛被这句话压垮了。德温特勋爵出去了，向费尔顿做了个手势，费尔顿跟着他，关上了门。

One instant after, the heavy step of a marine who served as sentinel was heard in the corridor—his ax in his girdle and his musket on his shoulder.
下一瞬，走廊里传来一名担任哨兵的海军陆战队员沉重的脚步声——他的斧头插在腰带上，步枪扛在肩上。

Milady remained for some minutes in the same position, for she thought they might perhaps be examining her through the keyhole; she then slowly raised her head, which had resumed its formidable expression of menace and defiance, ran to the door to listen, looked out of her window, and returning to bury herself again in her large armchair, she reflected.
米莱迪保持同样的姿势几分钟，因为她认为他们可能正在通过钥匙孔检查她。然后她慢慢地抬起头，脸上又恢复了威胁和挑衅的可怕表情，跑到门口听着，望向窗外，然后又回到了她的大扶手椅里，她回忆道。

51 OFFICER
51 官员

Meanwhile, the cardinal looked anxiously for news from England; but no news arrived that was not annoying and threatening.
与此同时，红衣主教焦急地寻找来自英国的消息。但没有任何消息不令人烦恼和威胁。

Although La Rochelle was invested, however certain success might appear—thanks to the precautions taken, and above all to the dyke, which prevented the entrance of any vessel into the besieged city—the blockade might last a long time yet. This was a great affront to the king’s army, and a great inconvenience to the cardinal, who had no longer, it is true, to embroil Louis XIII with Anne of Austria—for that affair was over—but he had to adjust matters for M. de Bassompierre, who was embroiled with the Duc d’Angouleme.
尽管拉罗谢尔已被投资，但无论看起来取得了怎样的成功——由于采取了预防措施，尤其是堤坝，阻止了任何船只进入被围困的城市——封锁可能还会持续很长时间。这对国王的军队来说是极大的侮辱，对红衣主教来说也是极大的不便，事实上，红衣主教已经不再让路易十三与奥地利的安妮卷入其中——因为那件事已经结束了——但他必须为M做出调整。 . de Bassompierre，与昂古莱姆公爵有牵连。

As to Monsieur, who had begun the siege, he left to the cardinal the task of finishing it.
至于开始围攻的先生，他把完成围攻的任务留给了红衣主教。

The city, notwithstanding the incredible perseverance of its mayor, had attempted a sort of mutiny for a surrender; the mayor had hanged the mutineers. This execution quieted the illdisposed, who resolved to allow themselves to die of hunger—this death always appearing to them more slow and less sure than strangulation.
尽管市长有着令人难以置信的毅力，这座城市还是试图通过某种叛变来投降。市长绞死了叛变者。这种处决让那些心怀不轨的人平静下来，他们决定让自己死于饥饿——这种死亡在他们看来总是比勒死更缓慢、更不确定。

On their side, from time to time, the besiegers took the messengers which the Rochellais sent to Buckingham, or the spies which Buckingham sent to the Rochellais. In one case or the other, the trial was soon over. The cardinal pronounced the single word, ‘Hanged!’ The king was invited to come and see the hanging. He came languidly, placing himself in a good situation to see all the details. This amused him sometimes a little, and made him endure the siege with patience; but it did not prevent his getting very tired, or from talking at every moment of returning to Paris—so that if the messengers and the spies had failed, his Eminence, notwithstanding all his inventiveness, would have found himself much embarrassed.
在他们这边，围攻者时不时地带走罗谢莱家族派往白金汉的信使，或者白金汉派往罗谢莱家族的间谍。不管怎样，审判很快就结束了。红衣主教说出了一个词：“绞刑！”国王受邀前来观看绞刑。他懒洋洋地走过来，把自己摆在一个有利的位置，可以看到所有的细节。这有时让他感到有些好笑，也使他能够耐心地忍受围攻。但这并没有阻止他变得非常疲倦，或者在返回巴黎的每时每刻都在说话——因此，如果信使和间谍失败了，尽管大人很有创造力，他也会发现自己非常尴尬。

Nevertheless, time passed on, and the Rochellais did not surrender. The last spy that was taken was the bearer of a letter. This letter told Buckingham that the city was at an extremity; but instead of adding, ‘If your succor does not arrive within fifteen days, we will surrender,’ it added, quite simply, ‘If your succor comes not within fifteen days, we shall all be dead with hunger when it comes.’
然而，时间过去了，罗谢莱家族并没有投降。最后被抓走的间谍是一封信的持有者。这封信告诉白金汉，这座城市正处于绝境。但它没有加上“如果你的救援在十五天内不到，我们就会投降”，而是简单地补充道，“如果你的救援在十五天内不到，我们都会饿死。”

The Rochellais, then, had no hope but in Buckingham. Buckingham was their Messiah. It was evident that if they one day learned positively that they must not count on Buckingham, their courage would fail with their hope.
罗谢莱家族除了白金汉之外别无希望。白金汉是他们的弥赛亚。显然，如果有一天他们明确知道不能指望白金汉，他们的勇气就会随着希望而消失。

The cardinal looked, then, with great impatience for the news from England which would announce to him that Buckingham would not come.
红衣主教焦急地等待着来自英国的消息，英国将向他宣布白金汉不会来。

The question of carrying the city by assault, though often debated in the council of the king, had been always rejected. In the first place, La Rochelle appeared impregnable. Then the cardinal, whatever he said, very well knew that the horror of bloodshed in this encounter, in which Frenchman would combat against Frenchman, was a retrograde movement of sixty years impressed upon his policy; and the cardinal was at that period what we now call a man of progress. In fact, the sack of La Rochelle, and the assassination of three of four thousand Huguenots who allowed themselves to be killed, would resemble too closely, in 1628, the massacre of St. Bartholomew in 1572; and then, above all this, this extreme measure, which was not at all repugnant to the king, good Catholic as he was, always fell before this argument of the besieging generals—La Rochelle is impregnable except to famine.
尽管国王的会议经常讨论进攻夺取城市的问题，但始终被拒绝。首先，拉罗谢尔看上去坚不可摧。然后，无论红衣主教说什么，他都清楚地知道，这场法国人与法国人之间的冲突中流血的恐怖，是他政策上六十年来的倒退。那个时期的红衣主教就是我们现在所说的进步人士。事实上，拉罗谢尔的洗劫，以及四千名自愿被杀的胡格诺教徒中的三人被暗杀，与 1628 年发生的 1572 年圣巴塞洛缪大屠杀太相似了。然后，最重要的是，这种极端措施对于国王这个虔诚的天主教徒来说一点也不反感，但总是在围攻将军的论点面前落空——拉罗谢尔除了饥荒之外是坚不可摧的。

The cardinal could not drive from his mind the fear he entertained of his terrible emissary—for he comprehended the strange qualities of this woman, sometimes a serpent, sometimes a lion. Had she betrayed him? Was she dead? He knew her well enough in all cases to know that, whether acting for or against him, as a friend or an enemy, she would not remain motionless without great impediments; but whence did these impediments arise? That was what he could not know.
红衣主教无法摆脱他对这位可怕的使者的恐惧——因为他理解这个女人的奇怪品质，有时是蛇，有时是狮子。难道她背叛了他？她死了吗？他对她在任何情况下都非常了解，知道无论是支持他还是反对他，作为朋友还是敌人，如果没有很大的障碍，她不会一动不动；但这些障碍是从何而来的呢？这是他无法知道的。

And yet he reckoned, and with reason, on Milady. He had divined in the past of this woman terrible things which his red mantle alone could cover; and he felt, from one cause or another, that this woman was his own, as she could look to no other but himself for a support superior to the danger which threatened her.
但他还是有理由相信米莱迪。他在过去就预见到这个女人身上有可怕的事情，只有他的红色斗篷才能掩盖这些事情。出于某种原因，他觉得这个女人是他自己的，因为除了他自己之外，她无法向其他人寻求比威胁她的危险更好的支持。

He resolved, then, to carry on the war alone, and to look for no success foreign to himself, but as we look for a fortunate chance. He continued to press the raising of the famous dyke which was to starve La Rochelle. Meanwhile, he cast his eyes over that unfortunate city, which contained so much deep misery and so many heroic virtues, and recalling the saying of Louis XI, his political predecessor, as he himself was the predecessor of Robespierre, he repeated this maxim of Tristan’s gossip: ‘Divide in order to reign.’
于是，他决定独自进行战争，不寻求任何与他无关的成功，而我们则寻找幸运的机会。他继续敦促修建著名的堤坝，这将使拉罗谢尔挨饿。与此同时，他把目光投向了这座不幸的城市，那里蕴藏着如此多的深重苦难和如此多的英雄美德，他回忆起他的政治前辈路易十一的名言，正如他本人是罗伯斯庇尔的前辈一样，他重复了特里斯坦的这句格言。流言蜚语：“为了统治而分裂。”

Henry IV, when besieging Paris, had loaves and provisions thrown over the walls. The cardinal had little notes thrown over in which he represented to the Rochellais how unjust, selfish, and barbarous was the conduct of their leaders. These leaders had corn in abundance, and would not let them partake of it; they adopted as a maxim—for they, too, had maxims—that it was of very little consequence that women, children, and old men should die, so long as the men who were to defend the walls remained strong and healthy. Up to that time, whether from devotedness or from want of power to act against it, this maxim, without being generally adopted, nevertheless passed from theory into practice; but the notes did it injury. The notes reminded the men that the children, women, and old men whom they allowed to die were their sons, their wives, and their fathers, and that it would be more just for everyone to be reduced to the common misery, in order that equal conditions should give birth to unanimous resolutions.
亨利四世围攻巴黎时，将面包和粮食扔到了墙上。红衣主教扔了一些小纸条，向罗谢莱家族表示他们领导人的行为是多么不公正、自私和野蛮。这些领导人有充足的谷物，却不让他们分享；他们采纳了一条格言——因为他们也有格言——只要保卫城墙的男人保持强壮和健康，妇女、儿童和老人的死亡就没有什么影响。直到那时，无论是出于忠诚还是由于缺乏反对它的权力，这条格言虽然没有被普遍采用，但却从理论变成了实践。但笔记却伤害了我。这些纸条提醒男人们，他们允许死去的儿童、妇女和老人是他们的儿子、妻子和父亲，而让每个人都陷入共同的痛苦中会更公平，这样才能平等的条件应该产生一致的决议。

These notes had all the effect that he who wrote them could expect, in that they induced a great number of the inhabitants to open private negotiations with the royal army.
这些笔记产生了书写者所期望的所有效果，因为它们诱导了大量居民与皇家军队进行私人谈判。

But at the moment when the cardinal saw his means already bearing fruit, and applauded himself for having put it in action, an inhabitant of La Rochelle who had contrived to pass the royal lines—God knows how, such was the watchfulness of Bassompierre, Schomberg, and the Duc d’Angouleme, themselves watched over by the cardinal—an inhabitant of La Rochelle, we say, entered the city, coming from Portsmouth, and saying that he had seen a magnificent fleet ready to sail within eight days. Still further, Buckingham announced to the mayor that at length the great league was about to declare itself against France, and that the kingdom would be at once invaded by the English, Imperial, and Spanish armies. This letter was read publicly in all parts of the city. Copies were put up at the corners of the streets; and even they who had begun to open negotiations interrupted them, being resolved to await the succor so pompously announced.
但当红衣主教看到他的手段已经取得成果，并为自己将其付诸行动而鼓掌时，拉罗谢尔的居民设法越过了王室的界限——天知道是怎么做到的，巴松皮埃尔、舍姆贝格的警惕性就是如此。和昂古莱姆公爵本人，由红衣主教（我们说是拉罗谢尔的居民）看守，从朴茨茅斯进入这座城市，并说他看到一支宏伟的舰队准备在八天内起航。此外，白金汉向市长宣布，大联盟最终将宣布反对法国，英国、帝国和西班牙军队将立即入侵英国。这封信在全市各地公开宣读。副本被张贴在街角；就连那些已经开始谈判的人也打断了谈判，决心等待如此浮夸地宣布的援助。

This unexpected circumstance brought back Richelieu’s former anxiety, and forced him in spite of himself once more to turn his eyes to the other side of the sea.
这突如其来的情况，让黎塞留又恢复了先前的焦虑，迫使他不由自主地再次将目光投向了大海的彼岸。

During this time, exempt from the anxiety of its only and true chief, the royal army led a joyous life, neither provisions nor money being wanting in the camp. All the corps rivaled one another in audacity and gaiety. To take spies and hang them, to make hazardous expeditions upon the dyke or the sea, to imagine wild plans, and to execute them coolly—such were the pastimes which made the army find these days short which were not only so long to the Rochellais, a prey to famine and anxiety, but even to the cardinal, who blockaded them so closely.
这段时间，王军没有了唯一真正的首领的忧虑，过着快乐的生活，军营里不缺粮草，也不缺钱。所有军团都在大胆和欢乐方面相互竞争。抓捕间谍并绞死他们，在堤坝或海上进行危险的探险，想象疯狂的计划，然后冷静地执行它们——这些消遣让军队觉得日子很短，而对罗谢莱人来说却是漫长的，饥荒和焦虑的牺牲品，但即使是红衣主教，也如此紧密地封锁了他们。

Sometimes when the cardinal, always on horseback, like the lowest GENDARME of the army, cast a pensive glance over those works, so slowly keeping pace with his wishes, which the engineers, brought from all the corners of France, were executing under his orders, if he met a Musketeer of the company of Treville, he drew near and looked at him in a peculiar manner, and not recognizing in him one of our four companions, he turned his penetrating look and profound thoughts in another direction.
有时，总是骑在马背上的红衣主教，就像军队中最低级的宪兵一样，若有所思地看了一眼那些工程，慢慢地跟上他的愿望，而工程师们从法国各个角落带来，正在他的命令下执行，如果他遇到了特雷维尔连队的火枪手，他就会靠近并以一种特殊的方式看着他，没有认出他是我们四个同伴中的一个，他将他敏锐的目光和深刻的思想转向另一个方向。

One day when oppressed with a mortal weariness of mind, without hope in the negotiations with the city, without news from England, the cardinal went out, without any other aim than to be out of doors, and accompanied only by Cahusac and La Houdiniere, strolled along the beach. Mingling the immensity of his dreams with the immensity of the ocean, he came, his horse going at a foot’s pace, to a hill from the top of which he perceived behind a hedge, reclining on the sand and catching in its passage one of those rays of the sun so rare at this period of the year, seven men surrounded by empty bottles. Four of these men were our Musketeers, preparing to listen to a letter one of them had just received. This letter was so important that it made them forsake their cards and their dice on the drumhead.
有一天，红衣主教心情极度疲倦，与市政府谈判没有希望，也没有来自英格兰的消息，他出去了，除了出门外没有任何其他目的，只有考萨克和拉胡迪涅尔陪同。沿着海滩漫步。他将浩瀚的梦想与浩瀚的海洋融为一体，他骑着马以一英尺的速度来到了一座小山，从山顶上，他看到树篱后面有一座小山，斜倚在沙滩上，在它的通道中捕捉到其中的一个一年中这个时候的阳光如此罕见，七个男人围着空瓶子。其中四个人是我们的火枪手，准备听其中一个人刚刚收到的一封信。这封信是如此重要，以至于他们放弃了手中的牌和鼓面上的骰子。

The other three were occupied in opening an enormous flagon of Collicure wine; these were the lackeys of these gentlemen.
另外三个人正忙着打开一大壶科利库尔葡萄酒。这些都是这些先生们的走狗。

The cardinal was, as we have said, in very low spirits; and nothing when he was in that state of mind increased his depression so much as gaiety in others. Besides, he had another strange fancy, which was always to believe that the causes of his sadness created the gaiety of others. Making a sign to La Houdiniere and Cahusac to stop, he alighted from his horse, and went toward these suspected merry companions, hoping, by means of the sand which deadened the sound of his steps and of the hedge which concealed his approach, to catch some words of this conversation which appeared so interesting. At ten paces from the hedge he recognized the talkative Gascon; and as he had already perceived that these men were Musketeers, he did not doubt that the three others were those called the Inseparables; that is to say, Athos, Porthos, and Aramis.
正如我们所说，红衣主教情绪非常低落。当他处于这种心态时，没有什么比别人的快乐更能增加他的沮丧了。此外，他还有一个奇怪的幻想，那就是总是相信自己悲伤的原因造就了别人的欢乐。他向拉胡迪涅尔和卡胡萨克打了个手势，示意他们停下来，然后下了马，朝这些可疑的快乐伙伴走去，希望借助沙子的声音减弱他的脚步声，并利用树篱遮挡他的接近，抓住他们。这次谈话中的一些话显得很有趣。距离树篱十步远的地方，他认出了那个爱说话的加斯科尼人。由于他已经看出这些人是火枪手，所以他毫不怀疑另外三个人就是那些被称为“形影不离”的人。也就是说，阿托斯、波尔托斯和阿拉米斯。

It may be supposed that his desire to hear the conversation was augmented by this discovery. His eyes took a strange expression, and with the step of a tiger-cat he advanced toward the hedge; but he had not been able to catch more than a few vague syllables without any positive sense, when a sonorous and short cry made him start, and attracted the attention of the Musketeers.
可以认为，这一发现增强了他想听谈话的愿望。他的眼神变得怪异，迈着虎猫般的步伐，朝树篱走去。但他还没能听懂几个没有任何积极意义的模糊音节，突然一声响亮而短促的叫声让他惊呆了，并引起了火枪手们的注意。

‘Officer!’ cried Grimaud.
“警官！”格里莫喊道。

‘You are speaking, you scoundrel!’ said Athos, rising upon his elbow, and transfixing Grimaud with his flaming look.
“你在说话，你这个恶棍！”阿多斯说着，用胳膊肘站了起来，他那火红的眼神让格里莫惊呆了。

Grimaud therefore added nothing to his speech, but contented himself with pointing his index finger in the direction of the hedge, announcing by this gesture the cardinal and his escort.
因此，格里莫没有在他的讲话中添加任何内容，而是满足于将食指指向树篱的方向，通过这个手势宣布红衣主教和他的护卫。

With a single bound the Musketeers were on their feet, and saluted with respect.
火枪手们一跳就站了起来，恭敬地行礼。

The cardinal seemed furious.
红衣主教似乎很生气。

‘It appears that Messieurs the Musketeers keep guard,’ said he. ‘Are the English expected by land, or do the Musketeers consider themselves superior officers?’
“看来火枪手先生们在守卫，”他说。 “是英国人在陆地上被期待，还是火枪手认为自己是高级军官？”

‘Monseigneur,’ replied Athos, for amid the general fright he alone had preserved the noble calmness and coolness that never forsook him, ‘Monseigneur, the Musketeers, when they are not on duty, or when their duty is over, drink and play at dice, and they are certainly superior officers to their lackeys.’
“大人，”阿多斯回答道，因为在普遍的恐惧中，只有他一个人保持着从未放弃过的高贵的平静和冷静，“大人，火枪手们，当他们不执勤时，或者当他们的执勤结束时，就喝酒玩耍。”骰子，他们肯定是比他们的走狗优越的军官。

‘Lackeys?’ grumbled the cardinal. ‘Lackeys who have the order to warn their masters when anyone passes are not lackeys, they are sentinels.’
“走狗？”红衣主教抱怨道。 “受命在有人经过时警告主人的走狗不是走狗，他们是哨兵。”

‘Your Eminence may perceive that if we had not taken this precaution, we should have been exposed to allowing you to pass without presenting you our respects or offering you our thanks for the favor you have done us in uniting us. D’Artagnan,’ continued Athos, ‘you, who but lately were so anxious for such an opportunity for expressing your gratitude to Monseigneur, here it is; avail yourself of it.’
“陛下可能会认为，如果我们没有采取这一预防措施，我们就会在没有向您表示敬意或感谢您为团结我们而给予我们的帮助的情况下允许您通过。达达尼昂，”阿托斯继续说道，“您最近非常渴望有这样一个机会向大人表达您的谢意，就在这里；充分利用它。

These words were pronounced with that imperturbable phlegm which distinguished Athos in the hour of danger, and with that excessive politeness which made of him at certain moments a king more majestic than kings by birth.
说这些话时，阿多斯表现出一种镇定自若的态度，这正是阿多斯在危险时刻所表现出来的特点，同时又带着一种过分的礼貌，这使得他在某些时刻成为了一位比生来的国王更加威严的国王。

D’Artagnan came forward and stammered out a few words of gratitude which soon expired under the gloomy looks of the cardinal.
达达尼昂上前，结结巴巴地说了几句感谢的话，但很快就在红衣主教阴沉的目光下消失了。

‘It does not signify, gentlemen,’ continued the cardinal, without appearing to be in the least swerved from his first intention by the diversion which Athos had started, ‘it does not signify, gentlemen. I do not like to have simple soldiers, because they have the advantage of serving in a privileged corps, thus to play the great lords; discipline is the same for them as for everybody else.’
“这并不意味着，先生们，”红衣主教继续说道，丝毫没有因为阿多斯开始的转移注意力而偏离他的初衷，“这并不意味着，先生们。我不喜欢简单的士兵，因为他们有在特权军团服役的优势，可以扮演大领主；纪律对他们来说和其他人一样。

Athos allowed the cardinal to finish his sentence completely, and bowed in sign of assent. Then he resumed in his turn: ‘Discipline, Monseigneur, has, I hope, in no way been forgotten by us. We are not on duty, and we believed that not being on duty we were at liberty to dispose of our time as we pleased. If we are so fortunate as to have some particular duty to perform for your Eminence, we are ready to obey you. Your Eminence may perceive,’ continued Athos, knitting his brow, for this sort of investigation began to annoy him, ‘that we have not come out without our arms.’
阿托斯让红衣主教完整地说完他的话，然后鞠了一躬以示同意。然后他又继续说道：“大人，我希望我们绝没有忘记纪律。我们没有值班，而且我们相信，不值班我们就可以随心所欲地安排我们的时间。如果我们有幸能够为阁下履行某些特殊职责，我们随时准备服从您。陛下可能会察觉到，”阿多斯皱起眉头继续说道，因为这种调查开始让他恼火，“我们没有带着武器出来。”

And he showed the cardinal, with his finger, the four muskets piled near the drum, on which were the cards and dice.
他用手指向红衣主教展示了堆在鼓附近的四支步枪，上面有纸牌和骰子。

‘Your Eminence may believe,’ added d’Artagnan, ‘that we would have come to meet you, if we could have supposed it was Monseigneur coming toward us with so few attendants.’
“陛下也许会相信，”达达尼昂补充道，“如果我们能想到大人带着这么少的侍从朝我们走来的话，我们一定会来迎接您的。”

The cardinal bit his mustache, and even his lips a little.
红衣主教咬着胡子，甚至咬着嘴唇。

‘Do you know what you look like, all together, as you are armed and guarded by your lackeys?’ said the cardinal. ‘You look like four conspirators.’
“你知道当你全副武装、由你的走狗看守时，你看起来是什么样子吗？”红衣主教说道。 “你们看起来像四个同谋。”

‘Oh, as to that, Monseigneur, it is true,’ said Athos; ‘we do conspire, as your Eminence might have seen the other morning. Only we conspire against the Rochellais.’
“噢，大人，确实如此，”阿多斯说道。 “我们确实在密谋，正如阁下那天早上可能看到的那样。只有我们密谋反对罗切莱家族。

‘Ah, you gentlemen of policy!’ replied the cardinal, knitting his brow in his turn, ‘the secret of many unknown things might perhaps be found in your brains, if we could read them as you read that letter which you concealed as soon as you saw me coming.’
“啊，你们这些政策先生们！”红衣主教也皱起眉头回答道，“如果我们能像你们读到那封信一样，我们可以在你们的大脑中发现许多不为人知的秘密。”正如你看到我来的那样。

The color mounted to the face of Athos, and he made a step toward his Eminence.
阿托斯脸色涨红，向主教大人迈出了一步。

‘One might think you really suspected us, monseigneur, and we were undergoing a real interrogatory. If it be so, we trust your Eminence will deign to explain yourself, and we should then at least be acquainted with our real position.’
“有人可能会认为您真的怀疑我们，大人，而我们正在接受一场真正的审讯。如果是这样，我们相信阁下会屈尊解释一下，然后我们至少应该了解我们的真实立场。

‘And if it were an interrogatory!’ replied the cardinal. ‘Others besides you have undergone such, Monsieur Athos, and have replied thereto.’
“如果这是一次审问的话！”红衣主教回答道。 “阿多斯先生，除了你之外，其他人也经历过这样的事情，并且对此做出了回应。”

‘Thus I have told your Eminence that you had but to question us, and we are ready to reply.’
“因此，我已经告诉阁下，您只要向我们提问，我们就准备答复。”

‘What was that letter you were about to read, Monsieur Aramis, and which you so promptly concealed?’
“阿拉米斯先生，你要读的那封信是什么，但你这么快就把它藏起来了？”

‘A woman’s letter, monseigneur.’
“一封女人的信，大人。”

‘Ah, yes, I see,’ said the cardinal; ‘we must be discreet with this sort of letters; but nevertheless, we may show them to a confessor, and you know I have taken orders.’
“啊，是的，我明白了，”红衣主教说。 “我们必须谨慎对待此类信件；但无论如何，我们可以把它们拿给忏悔神父看，你知道我已经接受了命令。”

‘Monseigneur,’ said Athos, with a calmness the more terrible because he risked his head in making this reply, ‘the letter is a woman’s letter, but it is neither signed Marion de Lorme, nor Madame d’Aiguillon.’
“大人，”阿托斯说，他的平静更加可怕，因为他冒着生命危险做出了这封信，“这封信是一封女人的信，但署名既不是玛丽昂·德·洛尔姆，也不是艾吉永夫人。”

The cardinal became as pale as death; lightning darted from his eyes. He turned round as if to give an order to Cahusac and Houdiniere. Athos saw the movement; he made a step toward the muskets, upon which the other three friends had fixed their eyes, like men ill-disposed to allow themselves to be taken. The cardinalists were three; the Musketeers, lackeys included, were seven. He judged that the match would be so much the less equal, if Athos and his companions were really plotting; and by one of those rapid turns which he always had at command, all his anger faded away into a smile.
红衣主教脸色苍白得像死人一样。闪电从他的眼中射出。他转过身来，仿佛是在向卡胡萨克和胡迪涅尔下达命令。阿多斯看到了动静。他向火枪迈出了一步，其他三个朋友的目光都集中在火枪上，就像不愿意被抓住的人一样。红衣主教是三人；火枪手，包括走狗在内，共有七人。他判断，如果阿多斯和他的同伴真的在密谋的话，那么这场比赛将更加不平等。随着他一惯的快速转身，他所有的愤怒都消失成了微笑。

‘Well, well!’ said he, ‘you are brave young men, proud in daylight, faithful in darkness. We can find no fault with you for watching over yourselves, when you watch so carefully over others. Gentlemen, I have not forgotten the night in which you served me as an escort to the Red Dovecot. If there were any danger to be apprehended on the road I am going, I would request you to accompany me; but as there is none, remain where you are, finish your bottles, your game, and your letter. Adieu, gentlemen!’
“好吧，好吧！”他说，“你们是勇敢的年轻人，在白天骄傲，在黑暗中忠诚。当你如此仔细地照顾别人时，我们不能责怪你照顾自己。先生们，我没有忘记你们护送我前往红鸽舍的那个夜晚。如果我要去的路上有任何危险，我会请你陪我；但既然没有，就留在原地，喝完你的酒、你的游戏和你的信。再见，先生们！

And remounting his horse, which Cahusac led to him, he saluted them with his hand, and rode away.
他重新骑上卡胡萨克牵来的马，向他们挥手致意，然后骑马走了。

The four young men, standing and motionless, followed him with their eyes without speaking a single word until he had disappeared. Then they looked at one another.
四个年轻人一动不动地站着，目光跟着他，一言不发，直到他消失。然后他们互相看了一眼。

The countenances of all gave evidence of terror, for notwithstanding the friendly adieu of his Eminence, they plainly perceived that the cardinal went away with rage in his heart.
所有人的表情都充满了恐惧，因为尽管主教阁下友好地告别了，但他们清楚地看出红衣主教带着愤怒离开了。

Athos alone smiled, with a self-possessed, disdainful smile.
唯有阿托斯笑了，笑容里带着泰然自若、轻蔑的笑容。

When the cardinal was out of hearing and sight, ‘That Grimaud kept bad watch!’ cried Porthos, who had a great inclination to vent his ill-humor on somebody.
当红衣主教消失得无影无踪时，波尔托斯喊道：“那个格里莫看守得不好！”他很想向某人发泄自己的坏脾气。

Grimaud was about to reply to excuse himself. Athos lifted his finger, and Grimaud was silent.
格里莫正要回答说对不起。阿多斯举起手指，格里莫沉默了。

‘Would you have given up the letter, Aramis?’ said d’Artagnan.
“阿拉米斯，你会放弃这封信吗？”达达尼昂说。

‘I,’ said Aramis, in his most flutelike tone, ‘I had made up my mind. If he had insisted upon the letter being given up to him, I would have presented the letter to him with one hand, and with the other I would have run my sword through his body.’
“我，”阿拉米斯用他最像长笛的声音说道，“我已经下定决心了。如果他坚持要把这封信交给他，我就会用一只手把这封信递给他，另一只手就会用剑刺穿他的身体。

‘I expected as much,’ said Athos; ‘and that was why I threw myself between you and him. Indeed, this man is very much to blame for talking thus to other men; one would say he had never had to do with any but women and children.’
“我也这么期望，”阿托斯说道。 ‘这就是为什么我把自己挡在你和他之间。事实上，这个人对其他人这样说话是非常应该受到责备的。有人会说，除了妇女和儿童之外，他从来没有和任何人有过关系。”

‘My dear Athos, I admire you, but nevertheless we were in the wrong, after all.’
“我亲爱的阿托斯，我钦佩你，但无论如何，我们都错了。”

‘How, in the wrong?’ said Athos. ‘Whose, then, is the air we breathe? Whose is the ocean upon which we look? Whose is the sand upon which we were reclining? Whose is that letter of your mistress? Do these belong to the cardinal? Upon my honor, this man fancies the world belongs to him. There you stood, stammering, stupefied, annihilated. One might have supposed the Bastille appeared before you, and that the gigantic Medusa had converted you into stone. Is being in love conspiring? You are in love with a woman whom the cardinal has caused to be shut up, and you wish to get her out of the hands of the cardinal. That’s a match you are playing with his Eminence; this letter is your game. Why should you expose your game to your adversary? That is never done. Let him find it out if he can! We can find out his!’
“怎么，错了？”阿托斯说。 “那么，我们呼吸的空气是谁的？我们眼前的海洋是谁的？我们斜倚的沙子是谁的？你情妇的那封信是谁的？这些是红衣主教的吗？以我的名誉担保，这个人幻想世界属于他。你站在那里，结结巴巴，目瞪口呆，彻底崩溃了。人们可能会认为巴士底狱出现在你面前，巨大的美杜莎把你变成了石头。相爱就是阴谋吗？你爱上了一个被红衣主教关起来的女人，你希望把她从红衣主教的手中救出来。这是一场你正在和​​他的阁下进行的比赛；这封信是你的游戏。为什么要向对手公开你的游戏？那是从来没有做过的。如果可以的话就让他找出来吧！我们可以找到他的！

‘Well, that’s all very sensible, Athos,’ said d’Artagnan.
“嗯，这一切都很明智，阿托斯，”达达尼昂说。

‘In that case, let there be no more question of what’s past, and let Aramis resume the letter from his cousin where the cardinal interrupted him.’
“既然如此，就不要再追究过去的事情了，让阿拉米斯继续写他表弟的信，红衣主教打断了他的话。”

Aramis drew the letter from his pocket; the three friends surrounded him, and the three lackeys grouped themselves again near the wine jar.
阿拉米斯从口袋里掏出信。三个朋友围住了他，三个走狗又聚集在酒坛附近。

‘You had only read a line or two,’ said d’Artagnan; ‘read the letter again from the commencement.’
“你只读了一两行，”达达尼昂说； “从开头再读一遍这封信。”

‘Willingly,’ said Aramis.
“愿意，”阿拉米斯说。

‘My dear Cousin, I think I shall make up my mind to set out for Bethune, where my sister has placed our little servant in the convent of the Carmelites; this poor child is quite resigned, as she knows she cannot live elsewhere without the salvation of her soul being in danger. Nevertheless, if the affairs of our family are arranged, as we hope they will be, I believe she will run the risk of being damned, and will return to those she regrets, particularly as she knows they are always thinking of her. Meanwhile, she is not very wretched; what she most desires is a letter from her intended. I know that such viands pass with difficulty through convent gratings; but after all, as I have given you proofs, my dear cousin, I am not unskilled in such affairs, and I will take charge of the commission. My sister thanks you for your good and eternal remembrance. She has experienced much anxiety; but she is now at length a little reassured, having sent her secretary away in order that nothing may happen unexpectedly.
“我亲爱的表弟，我想我应该决定出发去白求恩，我姐姐已经把我们的小仆人安置在加尔默罗修道院里了。这个可怜的孩子很听天由命，因为她知道如果她的灵魂得救没有危险，她就无法生活在其他地方。尽管如此，如果我们家的事情如我们希望的那样安排好了，我相信她会冒着被诅咒的危险，并会回到那些她后悔的地方，特别是因为她知道他们总是想着她。与此同时，她也不是很可怜。她最想要的是一封来自她的意中人的信。我知道这样的食物很难通过修道院的栅栏。但毕竟，正如我已经给你提供的证据一样，我亲爱的表弟，我在这方面并不不熟练，而且我将负责这项委员会。我的妹妹感谢你给我美好而永恒的回忆。她经历了很多焦虑；不过，为了避免发生意外，她已经把秘书送走了，现在总算是放心了一些。

‘Adieu, my dear cousin. Tell us news of yourself as often as you can; that is to say, as often as you can with safety. I embrace you.
‘再见，我亲爱的表弟。尽可能多地告诉我们有关您自己的消息；也就是说，在安全的情况下尽可能多地进行。我拥抱你。

‘Marie Michon.’
“玛丽·米琼。”

‘Oh, what do I not owe you, Aramis?’ said d’Artagnan. ‘Dear Constance! I have at length, then, intelligence of you. She lives; she is in safety in a convent; she is at Bethune! Where is Bethune, Athos?’
“噢，阿拉米斯，我有什么不欠你的？”达达尼昂说。亲爱的康斯坦斯！那么我终于掌握了你的智慧。她住在;她在修道院里很安全；她在白求恩！阿托斯，白求恩在哪里？

‘Why, upon the frontiers of Artois and of Flanders. The siege once over, we shall be able to make a tour in that direction.’
“为什么，在阿图瓦和佛兰德斯的边界上。围攻一结束，我们就可以朝那个方向游览了。

‘And that will not be long, it is to be hoped,’ said Porthos; ‘for they have this morning hanged a spy who confessed that the Rochellais were reduced to the leather of their shoes. Supposing that after having eaten the leather they eat the soles, I cannot see much that is left unless they eat one another.’
“希望这不会太久，”波托斯说。 “因为今天早上他们绞死了一名间谍，他承认罗谢莱一家已经沦落到只剩鞋子的皮革了。”假设吃完皮革后，他们又吃鞋底，我看不到剩下多少，除非他们互相吃掉。

‘Poor fools!’ said Athos, emptying a glass of excellent Bordeaux wine which, without having at that period the reputation it now enjoys, merited it no less, ‘poor fools! As if the Catholic religion was not the most advantageous and the most agreeable of all religions! All the same,’ resumed he, after having clicked his tongue against his palate, ‘they are brave fellows! But what the devil are you about, Aramis?’ continued Athos. ‘Why, you are squeezing that letter into your pocket!’
“可怜的傻瓜！”阿托斯一边说，一边喝光了一杯上等的波尔多葡萄酒，这种葡萄酒在当时虽然没有现在这样的声誉，但也同样值得拥有，“可怜的傻瓜！”好像天主教不是所有宗教中最有利和最令人愉快的！尽管如此，”他用舌头抵住上颚，接着说道，“他们都是勇敢的家伙！ “阿拉米斯，你到底想干什么？”阿托斯继续说道。 “哎呀，你把那封信塞进口袋里了！”

‘Yes,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘Athos is right, it must be burned. And yet if we burn it, who knows whether Monsieur Cardinal has not a secret to interrogate ashes?’
“是的，”达达尼昂说，“阿多斯是对的，必须把它烧掉。”但如果我们把它烧了，谁知道红衣主教先生是否有审问骨灰的秘密呢？

‘He must have one,’ said Athos.
“他一定有一个，”阿托斯说。

‘What will you do with the letter, then?’ asked Porthos.
“那么你打算怎么处理这封信呢？”波托斯问道。

‘Come here, Grimaud,’ said Athos. Grimaud rose and obeyed. ‘As a punishment for having spoken without permission, my friend, you will please to eat this piece of paper; then to recompense you for the service you will have rendered us, you shall afterward drink this glass of wine. First, here is the letter. Eat heartily.’
“过来，格里莫，”阿托斯说。格里莫站起来服从了。 “作为对未经允许说话的惩罚，我的朋友，请你吃掉这张纸；然后，为了报答您为我们提供的服务，您应该喝下这杯酒。首先，这是一封信。尽情地吃吧。

Grimaud smiled; and with his eyes fixed upon the glass which Athos held in his hand, he ground the paper well between his teeth and then swallowed it.
格里莫笑了；他的眼睛盯着阿多斯手里的玻璃杯，用牙齿把纸磨得很碎，然后把它咽了下去。

‘Bravo, Monsieur Grimaud!’ said Athos; ‘and now take this. That’s well. We dispense with your saying grace.’
“好极了，格里莫先生！”阿托斯说。 ‘现在拿着这个。那很好。我们不再接受你的恩典。

Grimaud silently swallowed the glass of Bordeaux wine; but his eyes, raised toward heaven during this delicious occupation, spoke a language which, though mute, was not the less expressive.
格里莫默默地咽下了一杯波尔多葡萄酒；但在这美妙的时光里，他的眼睛仰望着天空，诉说着一种虽然无声却富有表现力的语言。

‘And now,’ said Athos, ‘unless Monsieur Cardinal should form the ingenious idea of ripping up Grimaud, I think we may be pretty much at our ease respecting the letter.’
“现在，”阿托斯说，“除非红衣主教先生想出一个巧妙的主意来撕毁格里莫，否则我想我们可能会很放心地尊重这封信。”

Meantime, his Eminence continued his melancholy ride, murmuring between his mustaches, ‘These four men must positively be mine.’
与此同时，大人继续忧郁地前行，胡须间低声说道：“这四个人肯定是我的了。”

52 CAPTIVITY: THE FIRST DAY
52 囚禁：第一天

Let us return to Milady, whom a glance thrown upon the coast of France has made us lose sight of for an instant.
让我们回到米拉迪身上，只要一瞥法国海岸，我们就暂时忽视了她。

We shall find her still in the despairing attitude in which we left her, plunged in an abyss of dismal reflection—a dark hell at the gate of which she has almost left hope behind, because for the first time she doubts, for the first time she fears.
我们会发现她仍然处于我们离开她时的绝望态度，陷入悲观反思的深渊——一个黑暗的地狱，她几乎把希望抛在了门外，因为她第一次怀疑，第一次她担心。

On two occasions her fortune has failed her, on two occasions she has found herself discovered and betrayed; and on these two occasions it was to one fatal genius, sent doubtlessly by the Lord to combat her, that she has succumbed. D’Artagnan has conquered her—her, that invincible power of evil.
有两次她的命运让她失望了，有两次她发现自己被发现并被出卖。在这两次事件中，她都屈服于一位致命的天才，无疑是上帝派来与她战斗的。达达尼昂征服了她——她，那股不可战胜的邪恶力量。

He has deceived her in her love, humbled her in her pride, thwarted her in her ambition; and now he ruins her fortune, deprives her of liberty, and even threatens her life. Still more, he has lifted the corner of her mask—that shield with which she covered herself and which rendered her so strong.
他在她的爱情中欺骗了她，在她的骄傲中贬低了她，在她的野心中挫败了她。现在他毁了她的财产，剥夺她的自由，甚至威胁她的生命。更重要的是，他抬起了她面具的一角——那是她用来遮盖自己、使她变得如此坚强的盾牌。

D’Artagnan has turned aside from Buckingham, whom she hates as she hates everyone she has loved, the tempest with which Richelieu threatened him in the person of the queen. D’Artagnan had passed himself upon her as de Wardes, for whom she had conceived one of those tigerlike fancies common to women of her character. D’Artagnan knows that terrible secret which she has sworn no one shall know without dying. In short, at the moment in which she has just obtained from Richelieu a carte blanche by the means of which she is about to take vengeance on her enemy, this precious paper is torn from her hands, and it is d’Artagnan who holds her prisoner and is about to send her to some filthy Botany Bay, some infamous Tyburn of the Indian Ocean.
达达尼昂已经背弃了白金汉，她恨白金汉，就像她恨她所爱的所有人一样，黎塞留以王后的名义威胁他。达达尼昂自称是德·瓦尔德，她为他设想了一种像她这样性格的女人所共有的老虎般的幻想。达达尼昂知道这个可怕的秘密，她发誓除非死，否则任何人都不会知道这个秘密。简而言之，当她刚刚从黎塞留那里获得全权委托，准备向敌人报仇时，这份珍贵的文件从她手中被撕了下来，而抓住她的是达达尼昂。囚犯并准备将她送到某个肮脏的植物湾，某个臭名昭著的印度洋泰伯恩。

All this she owes to d’Artagnan, without doubt. From whom can come so many disgraces heaped upon her head, if not from him? He alone could have transmitted to Lord de Winter all these frightful secrets which he has discovered, one after another, by a train of fatalities. He knows her brother-in-law. He must have written to him.
毫无疑问，这一切都归功于达达尼昂。如果不是他，谁能让她承受如此多的耻辱？他一个人就能将他在一系列死亡事件中发现的所有这些可怕的秘密传达给德温特勋爵。他认识她的姐夫。一定是他写信给他的。

What hatred she distills! Motionless, with her burning and fixed glances, in her solitary apartment, how well the outbursts of passion which at times escape from the depths of her chest with her respiration, accompany the sound of the surf which rises, growls, roars, and breaks itself like an eternal and powerless despair against the rocks on which is built this dark and lofty castle! How many magnificent projects of vengeance she conceives by the light of the flashes which her tempestuous passion casts over her mind against Mme. Bonacieux, against Buckingham, but above all against d’Artagnan—projects lost in the distance of the future.
她激起了多大的仇恨啊！一动不动，目光灼热，在她孤独的公寓里，激情的爆发是多么美妙，有时随着她的呼吸从胸腔深处逸出，伴随着海浪的升起、咆哮、咆哮和破碎的声音。就像对建造这座黑暗而高大的城堡的岩石有一种永恒而无力的绝望！她的狂暴的激情在她的脑海中投射出对夫人的闪光，她构想了多少宏伟的复仇计划。博纳希厄对阵白金汉宫，但最重要的是对阵达达尼昂——这些项目在遥远的未来都消失了。

Yes; but in order to avenge herself she must be free. And to be free, a prisoner has to pierce a wall, detach bars, cut through a floor—all undertakings which a patient and strong man may accomplish, but before which the feverish irritations of a woman must give way. Besides, to do all this, time is necessary— months, years; and she has ten or twelve days, as Lord de Winter, her fraternal and terrible jailer, has told her.
是的;但为了报仇，她必须自由。为了获得自由，囚犯必须刺穿墙壁、拆开铁栅栏、切开地板——所有这些都是一个耐心而坚强的男人可以完成的事情，但在这之前，女人的狂热激怒必须让位。此外，要做这一切，需要时间——数月、数年；正如她的兄弟般可怕的狱卒德·温特勋爵告诉她的，她还有十天或十二天的时间。

And yet, if she were a man she would attempt all this, and perhaps might succeed; why, then, did heaven make the mistake of placing that manlike soul in that frail and delicate body?
然而，如果她是一个男人，她会尝试这一切，也许会成功；那么，为什么上天会错误地将男人般的灵魂安置在这个脆弱而精致的身体里呢？

The first moments of her captivity were terrible; a few convulsions of rage which she could not suppress paid her debt of feminine weakness to nature. But by degrees she overcame the outbursts of her mad passion; and nervous tremblings which agitated her frame disappeared, and she remained folded within herself like a fatigued serpent in repose.
她被囚禁的最初时刻是可怕的。她无法抑制的几次愤怒抽搐，偿还了她对自然的女性弱点的亏欠。但她渐渐地克服了疯狂激情的爆发。使她身体不安的紧张颤抖消失了，她像一条疲惫的蛇一样蜷缩在自己的身体里。

‘Go to, go to! I must have been mad to allow myself to be carried away so,’ says she, gazing into the glass, which reflects back to her eyes the burning glance by which she appears to interrogate herself. ‘No violence; violence is the proof of weakness. In the first place, I have never succeeded by that means. Perhaps if I employed my strength against women I might perchance find them weaker than myself, and consequently conquer them; but it is with men that I struggle, and I am but a woman to them. Let me fight like a woman, then; my strength is in my weakness.’
‘去去去去！我一定是疯了，让自己如此失控。”她凝视着玻璃说道，玻璃反射回她的眼睛，她似乎在审问自己的灼热目光。 ‘没有暴力；暴力是软弱的证明。首先，我从来没有通过这种方式成功过。或许，如果我用我的力量对付女人，我可能会发现她们比我弱，从而征服她们；但我是在男人面前挣扎，而对他们来说我只是一个女人。那么，让我像个女人一样去战斗吧；我的优点在于我的缺点。

Then, as if to render an account to herself of the changes she could place upon her countenance, so mobile and so expressive, she made it take all expressions from that of passionate anger, which convulsed her features, to that of the most sweet, most affectionate, and most seducing smile. Then her hair assumed successively, under her skillful hands, all the undulations she thought might assist the charms of her face. At length she murmured, satisfied with herself, ‘Come, nothing is lost; I am still beautiful.’
然后，仿佛要向自己解释她的面部表情会发生怎样的变化，她的表情如此活跃，如此富于表现力，她把所有的表情都从让她面容抽搐的强烈愤怒变成了最甜蜜的表情，最深情、最迷人的微笑。然后，她的头发在她灵巧的双手下，相继呈现出她认为可能有助于衬托她的脸庞魅力的所有起伏。最后，她对自己感到满意，低声说道：“来吧，没有什么损失；”我仍然很美丽。

It was then nearly eight o’clock in the evening. Milady perceived a bed; she calculated that the repose of a few hours would not only refresh her head and her ideas, but still further, her complexion. A better idea, however, came into her mind before going to bed. She had heard something said about supper. She had already been an hour in this apartment; they could not long delay bringing her a repast. The prisoner did not wish to lose time; and she resolved to make that very evening some attempts to ascertain the nature of the ground she had to work upon, by studying the characters of the men to whose guardianship she was committed.
那时已经是晚上快八点了。米莱迪看到了一张床；她估计，几个小时的休息不仅能让她的头脑和想法焕然一新，而且还能让她的肤色焕然一新。然而，在睡觉前，她想到了一个更好的主意。她听到有人说起晚饭。她已经在这间公寓里待了一个小时了。他们迫不及待地给她准备了饭菜。囚犯不想浪费时间。她决定当天晚上就进行一些尝试，通过研究她所委托监护的人的性格来确定她必须工作的土地的性质。

A light appeared under the door; this light announced the reappearance of her jailers. Milady, who had arisen, threw herself quickly into the armchair, her head thrown back, her beautiful hair unbound and disheveled, her bosom half bare beneath her crumpled lace, one hand on her heart, and the other hanging down.
门下出现了一道光；这道光宣告了她的狱卒的再次出现。米莱迪站起来，迅速坐到扶手椅上，头向后仰，美丽的头发散开，蓬乱，皱巴巴的花边下半裸着胸部，一只手放在心上，另一只手垂下来。

The bolts were drawn; the door groaned upon its hinges. Steps sounded in the chamber, and drew near.
螺栓已拔出；门的铰链嘎吱作响。房间里响起脚步声，越来越近。

‘Place that table there,’ said a voice which the prisoner recognized as that of Felton.
“把那张桌子放在那里，”囚犯认出是费尔顿的声音说道。

The order was executed.
命令被执行了。

‘You will bring lights, and relieve the sentinel,’ continued Felton.
“你将带上灯，并接替哨兵，”费尔顿继续说道。

And this double order which the young lieutenant gave to the same individuals proved to Milady that her servants were the same men as her guards; that is to say, soldiers.
年轻中尉向同一个人下达的双重命令向米莱迪证明，她的仆人和她的卫兵是同一个人。也就是说，士兵。

Felton’s orders were, for the rest, executed with a silent rapidity that gave a good idea of the way in which he maintained discipline.
费尔顿的命令其余部分都以无声无息的速度执行，这让人很好地了解他维持纪律的方式。

At length Felton, who had not yet looked at Milady, turned toward her.
最后，还没看米莱迪的费尔顿转向了她。

‘Ah, ah!’ said he, ‘she is asleep; that’s well. When she wakes she can sup.’ And he made some steps toward the door.
“啊，啊！”他说，“她睡着了；很好。 “等她醒了就可以吃晚饭了。”说着他朝门口走了几步。

‘But, my lieutenant,’ said a soldier, less stoical than his chief, and who had approached Milady, ‘this woman is not asleep.’
“但是，我的中尉，”一名走近米莱迪的士兵说道，“这个女人没有睡着。”他的性格不像他的长官那么坚忍。

‘What, not asleep!’ said Felton; ‘what is she doing, then?’
“什么，没睡！”费尔顿说。 “那她在做什么呢？”

‘She has fainted. Her face is very pale, and I have listened in vain; I do not hear her breathe.’
‘她晕倒了。她的脸色很苍白，我听了也没有用。我听不到她的呼吸声。

‘You are right,’ said Felton, after having looked at Milady from the spot on which he stood without moving a step toward her. ‘Go and tell Lord de Winter that his prisoner has fainted—for this event not having been foreseen, I don’t know what to do.’
“你是对的，”费尔顿站在原地看着米莱迪，没有向她迈出一步，说道。 “去告诉德温特勋爵，他的囚犯已经晕倒了——因为没有预见到这一事件，我不知道该怎么办。”

The soldier went out to obey the orders of his officer. Felton sat down upon an armchair which happened to be near the door, and waited without speaking a word, without making a gesture. Milady possessed that great art, so much studied by women, of looking through her long eyelashes without appearing to open the lids. She perceived Felton, who sat with his back toward her. She continued to look at him for nearly ten minutes, and in these ten minutes the immovable guardian never turned round once.
士兵出去听从军官的命令。费尔顿在靠近门的一张扶手椅上坐下来，一言不发地等待着。米莱迪拥有一项被女性们广泛研究的伟大艺术，她可以透过她长长的睫毛观看，但看起来却没有打开眼睑。她认出了费尔顿，他背对着她坐着。她持续地注视着他近十分钟，而这十分钟里，那个一动不动的守护者却没有回头过一次。

She then thought that Lord de Winter would come, and by his presence give fresh strength to her jailer. Her first trial was lost; she acted like a woman who reckons up her resources. As a result she raised her head, opened her eyes, and sighed deeply.
然后她以为德温特勋爵会来，他的出现会给她的狱卒带来新的力量。她的第一次审判失败了；她表现得就像一个计算自己资源的女人。于是她抬起头，睁开眼睛，深深地叹了口气。

At this sigh Felton turned round.
听到这声叹息，费尔顿转过身来。

‘Ah, you are awake, madame,’ he said; ‘then I have nothing more to do here. If you want anything you can ring.’
“啊，您醒了，夫人，”他说。 ‘那么我在这里就没什么可做的了。如果你想要什么，可以打电话。

‘Oh, my God, my God! how I have suffered!’ said Milady, in that harmonious voice which, like that of the ancient enchantresses, charmed all whom she wished to destroy.
‘噢，我的上帝，我的上帝！ “我多么痛苦啊！”米莱迪用和谐的声音说道，这声音就像古代女巫的声音一样，迷住了所有她想消灭的人。

And she assumed, upon sitting up in the armchair, a still more graceful and abandoned position than when she reclined.
当她坐在扶手椅上时，她采取了比斜倚时更加优雅和放弃的姿势。

Felton arose.
费尔顿站了起来。

‘You will be served, thus, madame, three times a day,’ said he. ‘In the morning at nine o’clock, in the day at one o’clock, and in the evening at eight. If that does not suit you, you can point out what other hours you prefer, and in this respect your wishes will be complied with.’
“夫人，一天三顿，”他说。 ‘早上九点，白天一点，晚上八点。如果这不适合您，您可以指出您喜欢的其他时间，在这方面，您的愿望将得到满足。

‘But am I to remain always alone in this vast and dismal chamber?’ asked Milady.
“但是我必须永远独自一人呆在这个巨大而阴暗的房间里吗？”米莱迪问道。

‘A woman of the neighbourhood has been sent for, who will be tomorrow at the castle, and will return as often as you desire her presence.’
“已派人去请附近的一位女士，她明天会到城堡，只要你希望她出现，她就会回来。”

‘I thank you, sir,’ replied the prisoner, humbly.
“谢谢您，先生。”囚犯谦虚地回答道。

Felton made a slight bow, and directed his steps toward the door. At the moment he was about to go out, Lord de Winter appeared in the corridor, followed by the soldier who had been sent to inform him of the swoon of Milady. He held a vial of salts in his hand.
费尔顿微微鞠了一躬，然后迈步朝门口走去。正当他要出去的时候，德温特勋爵出现在走廊里，后面跟着派来通知他米莱迪昏倒的消息的士兵。他手里拿着一瓶盐。

‘Well, what is it—what is going on here?’ said he, in a jeering voice, on seeing the prisoner sitting up and Felton about to go out. ‘Is this corpse come to life already? Felton, my lad, did you not perceive that you were taken for a novice, and that the first act was being performed of a comedy of which we shall doubtless have the pleasure of following out all the developments?’
“呃，这是什么——这是怎么回事？”当他看到囚犯坐起来而费尔顿正要出去时，他用嘲笑的声音问道。 ‘这具尸体已经复活了吗？费尔顿，我的小伙子，你难道没有意识到你被当作一个新手吗？而且第一幕正在表演一部喜剧，我们无疑将有幸跟踪所有的发展？

‘I thought so, my lord,’ said Felton; ‘but as the prisoner is a woman, after all, I wish to pay her the attention that every man of gentle birth owes to a woman, if not on her account, at least on my own.’
“我是这么想的，大人，”费尔顿说。 “但由于囚犯毕竟是一名女性，我希望向她表示，每个出身高贵的男人都应该对一名女性负责，即使不是为了她，至少也是为了我自己。”

Milady shuddered through her whole system. These words of Felton’s passed like ice through her veins.
米莱迪的整个系统都在颤抖。费尔顿的这句话像冰一样穿过她的血管。

‘So,’ replied de Winter, laughing, ‘that beautiful hair so skillfully disheveled, that white skin, and that languishing look, have not yet seduced you, you heart of stone?’
“这么说，”德温特笑着回答，“那美丽的头发如此巧妙地凌乱，那白皙的皮肤，还有那憔悴的表情，还没有诱惑你，你这个铁石心肠？”

‘No, my Lord,’ replied the impassive young man; ‘your Lordship may be assured that it requires more than the tricks and coquetry of a woman to corrupt me.’
“不，陛下，”那个面无表情的年轻人回答道。 “大人请放心，要腐蚀我，需要的不仅仅是一个女人的诡计和卖弄。”

‘In that case, my brave lieutenant, let us leave Milady to find out something else, and go to supper; but be easy! She has a fruitful imagination, and the second act of the comedy will not delay its steps after the first.’
“既然如此，我勇敢的中尉，我们就离开米莱迪去找点别的事情吧，然后去吃晚饭吧；但要轻松！她的想象力丰富，喜剧的第二幕不会在第一幕之后拖延。

And at these words Lord de Winter passed his arm through that of Felton, and led him out, laughing.
听完这些话，德温特勋爵伸出手臂挽住费尔顿的手臂，笑着把他领了出去。

‘Oh, I will be a match for you!’ murmured Milady, between her teeth; ‘be assured of that, you poor spoiled monk, you poor converted soldier, who has cut his uniform out of a monk’s frock!’
“哦，我会和你比赛的！”米莱迪从牙缝里低声说道。 “放心吧，你可怜的被宠坏的和尚，你可怜的皈依的士兵，他从僧侣的衣服上剪下了他的制服！”

‘By the way,’ resumed de Winter, stopping at the threshold of the door, ‘you must not, Milady, let this check take away your appetite. Taste that fowl and those fish. On my honor, they are not poisoned. I have a very good cook, and he is not to be my heir; I have full and perfect confidence in him. Do as I do. Adieu, dear sister, till your next swoon!’
“顺便说一句，”德温特在门口停下来继续说道，“米拉迪，你不能让这张支票夺走你的胃口。尝尝那只鸟和那些鱼。以我的名誉担保，他们没有中毒。我有一个非常好的厨师，但他不能成为我的继承人；我对他充满信心。照我做的做吧。再见，亲爱的妹妹，直到你下一次昏倒为止！

This was all that Milady could endure. Her hands clutched her armchair; she ground her teeth inwardly; her eyes followed the motion of the door as it closed behind Lord de Winter and Felton, and the moment she was alone a fresh fit of despair seized her. She cast her eyes upon the table, saw the glittering of a knife, rushed toward it and clutched it; but her disappointment was cruel. The blade was round, and of flexible silver.
这是米莱迪所能忍受的。她的双手紧紧抓住扶手椅。她心里咬紧牙关；当门在德温特勋爵和费尔顿身后关上时，她的眼睛随着门的动作而移动，当她独自一人时，一股新的绝望抓住了她。她把目光投向桌子，看到了一把闪闪发光的刀，她冲过去抓住了它。但她的失望是残酷的。刀片是圆形的，由银色制成，富有弹性。

A burst of laughter resounded from the other side of the illclosed door, and the door reopened.
紧闭的门的另一边传来一阵笑声，门重新打开了。

‘Ha, ha!’ cried Lord de Winter; ‘ha, ha! Don’t you see, my brave Felton; don’t you see what I told you? That knife was for you, my lad; she would have killed you. Observe, this is one of her peculiarities, to get rid thus, after one fashion or another, of all the people who bother her. If I had listened to you, the knife would have been pointed and of steel. Then no more of Felton; she would have cut your throat, and after that everybody else’s. See, John, see how well she knows how to handle a knife.’
“哈，哈！”温特勋爵喊道。 '哈哈！难道你没看到吗，我勇敢的费尔顿；你没看到我告诉你的话吗？那把刀是给你的，我的小伙子；她会杀了你的。请注意，这是她的特点之一，以这种或那种方式摆脱所有打扰她的人。如果我听了你的话，刀就会是尖的、钢的。然后就不再有费尔顿了；她会割断你的喉咙，然后是其他人的喉咙。看看，约翰，看看她如何熟练地使用刀子。

In fact, Milady still held the harmless weapon in her clenched hand; but these last words, this supreme insult, relaxed her hands, her strength, and even her will. The knife fell to the ground.
事实上，米莱迪握紧的手里还握着那把无害的武器；但最后这句话，这无上的侮辱，却让她的双手、她的力量、甚至她的意志都放松了。刀掉在了地上。

‘You were right, my Lord,’ said Felton, with a tone of profound disgust which sounded to the very bottom of the heart of Milady, ‘you were right, my Lord, and I was wrong.’
“您是对的，大人，”费尔顿说道，语气里充满了深深的厌恶，听起来直击米莱迪的心底，“您是对的，大人，而我错了。”

And both again left the room.
然后两人又离开了房间。

But this time Milady lent a more attentive ear than the first, and she heard their steps die away in the distance of the corridor.
但这一次米莱迪比第一次更加专心地倾听，她听到他们的脚步声在走廊的远处渐渐消失。

‘I am lost,’ murmured she; ‘I am lost! I am in the power of men upon whom I can have no more influence than upon statues of bronze or granite; they know me by heart, and are steeled against all my weapons. It is, however, impossible that this should end as they have decreed!’
“我迷路了，”她低声说道。 '我搞不清楚了！我处于人们的权力之中，我对其的影响力并不比对青铜或花岗岩雕像的影响力大。他们对我了如指掌，并且能够抵抗我所有的武器。然而，这不可能像他们所规定的那样结束！

In fact, as this last reflection indicated—this instinctive return to hope—sentiments of weakness or fear did not dwell long in her ardent spirit. Milady sat down to table, ate from several dishes, drank a little Spanish wine, and felt all her resolution return.
事实上，正如最后的反思所表明的那样——这种本能地回归希望——软弱或恐惧的情绪并没有在她热情的精神中停留太久。米莱迪坐到餐桌旁，吃了几盘菜，喝了一点西班牙葡萄酒，感觉所有的决心都回来了。

Before she went to bed she had pondered, analyzed, turned on all sides, examined on all points, the words, the steps, the gestures, the signs, and even the silence of her interlocutors; and of this profound, skillful, and anxious study the result was that Felton, everything considered, appeared the more vulnerable of her two persecutors.
上床睡觉之前，她思考、分析、翻来覆去、审视所有的要点、言语、脚步、手势、迹象，甚至对话者的沉默；这项深刻、巧妙、令人焦虑的研究的结果是，从各方面考虑，费尔顿似乎是她的两个迫害者中更容易受到伤害的一个。

One expression above all recurred to the mind of the prisoner: ‘If I had listened to you,’ Lord de Winter had said to Felton.
囚犯的脑海中首先浮现出一种表情：“如果我听了你的话就好了，”德温特勋爵对费尔顿说道。

Felton, then, had spoken in her favor, since Lord de Winter had not been willing to listen to him.
费尔顿的话对她有利，因为德温特勋爵不愿意听他的。

‘Weak or strong,’ repeated Milady, ‘that man has, then, a spark of pity in his soul; of that spark I will make a flame that shall devour him. As to the other, he knows me, he fears me, and knows what he has to expect of me if ever I escape from his hands. It is useless, then, to attempt anything with him. But Felton— that’s another thing. He is a young, ingenuous, pure man who seems virtuous; him there are means of destroying.’
“不管是弱者还是强者，”米莱迪重复道，“那么，这个人的灵魂里就有一丝怜悯的火花；我将用那火花点燃火焰，吞噬他。至于另一个，他了解我，他害怕我，并且知道如果我从他手中逃脱，他会对我抱有什么期望。那么，尝试对他做任何事情都是没有用的。但费尔顿——那是另一回事了。他是一个年轻、纯真、纯洁、看似贤惠的人；他有摧毁的手段。

And Milady went to bed and fell asleep with a smile upon her lips. Anyone who had seen her sleeping might have said she was a young girl dreaming of the crown of flowers she was to wear on her brow at the next festival.
米莱迪上床睡觉，嘴角挂着微笑。任何见过她睡觉的人都可能会说，她是一个年轻的女孩，梦想着下一个节日时她能戴在额头上的花冠。

53 CAPTIVITY: THE SECOND DAY
53 被囚禁：第二天

Milady dreamed that she at length had d’Artagnan in her power, that she was present at his execution; and it was the sight of his odious blood, flowing beneath the ax of the headsman, which spread that charming smile upon her lips.
米莱迪梦见她终于掌控了达达尼昂，她出席了他的行刑。正是看到刽子手的斧头下流淌着他可憎的鲜血，她的嘴唇上才绽放出迷人的微笑。

She slept as a prisoner sleeps, rocked by his first hope.
她像囚犯一样睡着，被他的第一个希望所震撼。

In the morning, when they entered her chamber she was still in bed. Felton remained in the corridor. He brought with him the woman of whom he had spoken the evening before, and who had just arrived; this woman entered, and approaching Milady’s bed, offered her services.
早上，当他们进入她的房间时，她还躺在床上。费尔顿留在走廊里。他带来了他前一天晚上谈到的那个刚刚到达的女人。这个女人进来了，走到米莱迪的床边，提出了她的服务。

Milady was habitually pale; her complexion might therefore deceive a person who saw her for the first time.
米莱迪的脸色一向苍白。因此，她的肤色可能会欺骗第一次见到她的人。

‘I am in a fever,’ said she; ‘I have not slept a single instant during all this long night. I suffer horribly. Are you likely to be more humane to me than others were yesterday? All I ask is permission to remain abed.’
“我发烧了，”她说。 ‘在这漫漫长夜里，我一刻也没睡过。我痛苦极了。你可能会比昨天的其他人对我更加人道吗？我所要求的只是继续卧床休息。

‘Would you like to have a physician called?’ said the woman.
“你想请医生吗？”女人说道。

Felton listened to this dialogue without speaking a word.
费尔顿听着这段对话，一言不发。

Milady reflected that the more people she had around her the more she would have to work upon, and Lord de Winter would redouble his watch. Besides, the physician might declare the ailment feigned; and Milady, after having lost the first trick, was not willing to lose the second.
米莱迪想，她身边的人越多，她需要做的工作就越多，德温特勋爵就会加倍看守。此外，医生可能会宣称该病是假的；而米莱迪在输掉第一招之后，也不甘心输掉第二招。

‘Go and fetch a physician?’ said she. ‘What could be the good of that? These gentlemen declared yesterday that my illness was a comedy; it would be just the same today, no doubt—for since yesterday evening they have had plenty of time to send for a doctor.’
“去请医生来吗？”她说。 ‘那有什么好处呢？这些先生们昨天宣称我的病是一场喜剧；毫无疑问，今天也会一样——因为从昨天晚上开始，他们就有足够的时间去请医生了。

‘Then,’ said Felton, who became impatient, ‘say yourself, madame, what treatment you wish followed.’
“那么，”费尔顿变得不耐烦了，“请你自己说，女士，你希望接受什么治疗。”

‘Eh, how can I tell? My God! I know that I suffer, that’s all. Give me anything you like, it is of little consequence.’
‘呃，我怎么知道呢？我的上帝！我知道我很痛苦，仅此而已。你喜欢什么就给我什么，这没什么影响。”

‘Go and fetch Lord de Winter,’ said Felton, tired of these eternal complaints.
“去叫德温特勋爵来吧，”费尔顿说道，他厌倦了这些无休无止的抱怨。

‘Oh, no, no!’ cried Milady; ‘no, sir, do not call him, I conjure you. I am well, I want nothing; do not call him.’
“哦，不，不！”米莱迪喊道。 “不，先生，不要打电话给他，我召唤你。我很好，我什么都不想要；不要给他打电话。

She gave so much vehemence, such magnetic eloquence to this exclamation, that Felton in spite of himself advanced some steps into the room.
她的这句感叹语气如此强烈，如此富有磁性的雄辩，费尔顿不由自主地向前迈了几步，走进了房间。

‘He has come!’ thought Milady.
“他来了！”米莱迪想。

‘Meanwhile, madame, if you really suffer,’ said Felton, ‘a physician shall be sent for; and if you deceive us—well, it will be the worse for you. But at least we shall not have to reproach ourselves with anything.’
“同时，夫人，如果您真的很痛苦，”费尔顿说，“我们会请一位医生来；如果您真的很痛苦，我们会派一位医生来。”如果你欺骗了我们——那么，对你来说，情况会更糟。但至少我们不必用任何事情来责备自己。”

Milady made no reply, but turning her beautiful head round upon her pillow, she burst into tears, and uttered heartbreaking sobs.
米莱迪没有回答，只是把美丽的头枕在枕头上，放声大哭起来，发出令人心碎的抽泣声。

Felton surveyed her for an instant with his usual impassiveness; then, seeing that the crisis threatened to be prolonged, he went out. The woman followed him, and Lord de Winter did not appear.
费尔顿用他一贯的冷漠态度打量了她一会儿。然后，看到危机可能会持续下去，他就出去了。女人跟着他，德温特勋爵却没有出现。

‘I fancy I begin to see my way,’ murmured Milady, with a savage joy, burying herself under the clothes to conceal from anybody who might be watching her this burst of inward satisfaction.
“我想我开始认清自己的出路了，”米莱迪带着狂野的喜悦低声说道，她把自己埋在衣服下面，向任何可能正在看着她的人隐藏这股内心的满足感。

Two hours passed away.
两个小时过去了。

‘Now it is time that the malady should be over,’ said she; ‘let me rise, and obtain some success this very day. I have but ten days, and this evening two of them will be gone.’
“现在是疾病结束的时候了，”她说。 ‘让我站起来，今天就取得一些成功。我只有十天的时间，今晚其中两天就会消失。

In the morning, when they entered Milady’s chamber they had brought her breakfast. Now, she thought, they could not long delay coming to clear the table, and that Felton would then reappear.
早上，当他们进入米莱迪的房间时，他们给她带来了早餐。现在，她想，他们不能再拖延太久来收拾桌子了，然后费尔顿就会再次出现。

Milady was not deceived. Felton reappeared, and without observing whether Milady had or had not touched her repast, made a sign that the table should be carried out of the room, it having been brought in ready spread.
米莱迪没有被骗。费尔顿再次出现，没有观察米莱迪是否碰过她的食物，就做了一个手势，示意桌子应该搬出房间，桌子已经铺好了。

Felton remained behind; he held a book in his hand.
费尔顿留在了后面；他手里拿着一本书。

Milady, reclining in an armchair near the chimney, beautiful, pale, and resigned, looked like a holy virgin awaiting martyrdom.
米莱迪斜倚在烟囱旁的扶手椅上，美丽、苍白、听天由命，看起来像一位等待殉道的圣洁处女。

Felton approached her, and said, ‘Lord de Winter, who is a Catholic, like yourself, madame, thinking that the deprivation of the rites and ceremonies of your church might be painful to you, has consented that you should read every day the ordinary of your Mass; and here is a book which contains the ritual.’
费尔顿走近她，说道：“德温特勋爵，和你一样，也是一名天主教徒，夫人，他认为剥夺你教堂的仪式和仪式可能会让你感到痛苦，所以他同意你应该每天阅读普通的你的弥撒；这是一本包含仪式的书。

At the manner in which Felton laid the book upon the little table near which Milady was sitting, at the tone in which he pronounced the two words, YOUR MASS, at the disdainful smile with which he accompanied them, Milady raised her head, and looked more attentively at the officer.
费尔顿把书放在米莱迪旁边的小桌子上，看着他念出“你的弥撒”这两个词的语气，看着他伴随着他们的轻蔑的微笑，米莱迪抬起头，看着更加专心地看着军官。

By that plain arrangement of the hair, by that costume of extreme simplicity, by the brow polished like marble and as hard and impenetrable, she recognized one of those gloomy Puritans she had so often met, not only in the court of King James, but in that of the King of France, where, in spite of the remembrance of the St. Bartholomew, they sometimes came to seek refuge.
通过那朴素的头发排列，通过那件极其简单的服装，通过像大理石一样光滑、坚硬和难以理解的额头，她认出了她经常遇到的那些阴沉的清教徒之一，不仅在詹姆斯国王的宫廷里，而且在在法国国王那里，尽管人们记得圣巴塞洛缪，但他们有时还是来这里寻求庇护。

She then had one of those sudden inspirations which only people of genius receive in great crises, in supreme moments which are to decide their fortunes or their lives.
然后，她突然获得了一种灵感，这种灵感只有天才人才在重大危机、决定他们命运或生活的至高时刻才能获得。

Those two words, YOUR MASS, and a simple glance cast upon Felton, revealed to her all the importance of the reply she was about to make; but with that rapidity of intelligence which was peculiar to her, this reply, ready arranged, presented itself to her lips:
“你的弥撒”这两个词，以及瞥了费尔顿一眼，就向她揭示了她即将做出的答复的重要性。但凭借她特有的敏捷的智慧，这句已经准备好的回答就出现在她的嘴里：

‘I?’ said she, with an accent of disdain in unison with that which she had remarked in the voice of the young officer, ‘I, sir? MY MASS? Lord de Winter, the corrupted Catholic, knows very well that I am not of his religion, and this is a snare he wishes to lay for me!’
“我？”她带着轻蔑的口音说道，这与她用年轻军官的声音说的一致，“我，先生？我的弥撒？德温特勋爵，这个腐败的天主教徒，非常清楚我不属于他的宗教，这是他想为我设置的一个陷阱！

‘And of what religion are you, then, madame?’ asked Felton, with an astonishment which in spite of the empire he held over himself he could not entirely conceal.
“那么，夫人，您信奉什么宗教？”费尔顿问道，他的惊讶之情尽管他拥有强大的帝国，但他无法完全掩饰这种惊讶。

‘I will tell it,’ cried Milady, with a feigned exultation, ‘on the day when I shall have suffered sufficiently for my faith.’
“我会告诉你的，”米莱迪假装兴奋地喊道，“有一天我会为我的信仰而受尽苦难。”

The look of Felton revealed to Milady the full extent of the space she had opened for herself by this single word.
费尔顿的表情向米莱迪揭示了她通过这句话为自己打开的全部空间。

The young officer, however, remained mute and motionless; his look alone had spoken.
然而，这位年轻军官仍然一声不吭，一动不动。他的眼神已经说明了一切。

‘I am in the hands of my enemies,’ continued she, with that tone of enthusiasm which she knew was familiar to the Puritans. ‘Well, let my God save me, or let me perish for my God! That is the reply I beg you to make to Lord de Winter. And as to this book,’ added she, pointing to the manual with her finger but without touching it, as if she must be contaminated by it, ‘you may carry it back and make use of it yourself, for doubtless you are doubly the accomplice of Lord de Winter—the accomplice in his persecutions, the accomplice in his heresies.’
“我落入了敌人的手中，”她继续说道，语气充满热情，她知道清教徒很熟悉这种语气。 ‘好吧，让我的上帝拯救我，或者让我为我的上帝而灭亡！这就是我请求您对德温特勋爵作出的答复。至于这本书，”她补充道，用手指指着手册，但没有碰它，仿佛她一定被它污染了，“你可以把它带回去自己使用，因为毫无疑问，你是双倍的。德温特勋爵的同谋——他迫害的同谋，他异端邪说的同谋。

Felton made no reply, took the book with the same appearance of repugnance which he had before manifested, and retired pensively.
费尔顿没有回答，以他之前表现出的同样厌恶的表情接过这本书，然后若有所思地退了出去。

Lord de Winter came toward five o’clock in the evening. Milady had had time, during the whole day, to trace her plan of conduct. She received him like a woman who had already recovered all her advantages.
傍晚五点左右，德温特勋爵来了。米莱迪一整天都有时间来追踪她的行为计划。她接待他就像一个已经恢复了所有优点的女人。

‘It appears,’ said the baron, seating himself in the armchair opposite that occupied by Milady, and stretching out his legs carelessly upon the hearth, ‘it appears we have made a little apostasy!’
“看来，”男爵坐在米莱迪对面的扶手椅上，漫不经心地把腿伸到壁炉上，说道，“看来我们有点叛教了！”

‘What do you mean, sir!’
“您是什么意思，先生！”

‘I mean to say that since we last met you have changed your religion. You have not by chance married a Protestant for a third husband, have you?’
“我的意思是说，自从我们上次见面以来，你已经改变了你的宗教信仰。你并不是偶然嫁给了一个新教徒作为第三任丈夫，不是吗？

‘Explain yourself, my Lord,’ replied the prisoner, with majesty; ‘for though I hear your words, I declare I do not understand them.’
“请解释一下，陛下，”囚犯威严地回答道。 “虽然我听到了你的话，但我声明我不明白它们。”

‘Then you have no religion at all; I like that best,’ replied Lord de Winter, laughing.
‘那么你根本就没有宗教信仰；我最喜欢这个，”德温特勋爵笑着回答道。

‘Certainly that is most in accord with your own principles,’ replied Milady, frigidly.
“当然，这最符合你自己的原则。”米莱迪冷冷地回答道。

‘Oh, I confess it is all the same to me.’
“哦，我承认这对我来说都是一样的。”

‘Oh, you need not avow this religious indifference, my Lord; your debaucheries and crimes would vouch for it.’
“哦，陛下，您不必承认这种宗教冷漠；你的放荡和犯罪行为就可以证明这一点。”

‘What, you talk of debaucheries, Madame Messalina, Lady Macbeth! Either I misunderstand you or you are very shameless!’
“什么，你们谈论放荡，梅萨琳娜夫人，麦克白夫人！要么是我误会你了，要么就是你太无耻了！

‘You only speak thus because you are overheard,’ coolly replied Milady; ‘and you wish to interest your jailers and your hangmen against me.’
“你这么说只是因为你被人偷听了。”米莱迪冷冷地回答道。 “你想让你的狱卒和刽子手对我感兴趣。”

‘My jailers and my hangmen! Heyday, madame! you are taking a poetical tone, and the comedy of yesterday turns to a tragedy this evening. As to the rest, in eight days you will be where you ought to be, and my task will be completed.’
“我的狱卒和刽子手！嘿嘿，夫人！你用一种诗意的语气，昨天的喜剧今晚变成了悲剧。至于剩下的，八天内你就会到达你该去的地方，我的任务也将完成。

‘Infamous task! impious task!’ cried Milady, with the exultation of a victim who provokes his judge.
‘臭名昭著的任务！这是不敬虔的任务！”米莱迪大声喊道，语气就像一个激怒法官的受害者一样兴奋。

‘My word,’ said de Winter, rising, ‘I think the hussy is going mad! Come, come, calm yourself, Madame Puritan, or I’ll remove you to a dungeon. It’s my Spanish wine that has got into your head, is it not? But never mind; that sort of intoxication is not dangerous, and will have no bad effects.’
“我的保证，”德温特站了起来，“我觉得这个女人快疯了！”来吧，来吧，清教徒夫人，冷静一下，否则我就把你送进地牢。是我的西班牙葡萄酒进入了你的脑海，不是吗？但是不要紧;这种中毒并不危险，也不会产生不良影响。

And Lord de Winter retired swearing, which at that period was a very knightly habit.
温特勋爵也不再咒骂，这在当时是一种非常骑士化的习惯。

Felton was indeed behind the door, and had not lost one word of this scene. Milady had guessed aright.
费尔顿确实就在门后，对这一幕一字不漏。米莱迪猜对了。

‘Yes, go, go!’ said she to her brother; ‘the effects ARE drawing near, on the contrary; but you, weak fool, will not see them until it is too late to shun them.’
“是的，走吧，走吧！”她对弟弟说。 “相反，效果正在临近；但你，弱小的傻瓜，不会看到他们，直到为时已晚，无法避开他们。

Silence was re-established. Two hours passed away. Milady’s supper was brought in, and she was found deeply engaged in saying her prayers aloud—prayers which she had learned of an old servant of her second husband, a most austere Puritan. She appeared to be in ecstasy, and did not pay the least attention to what was going on around her. Felton made a sign that she should not be disturbed; and when all was arranged, he went out quietly with the soldiers.
又恢复了沉默。两个小时过去了。米莱迪的晚饭被端了进来，人们发现她正在全神贯注地大声祈祷——这些祈祷是她从她第二任丈夫的一位老仆人那里学来的，她是一位极其严肃的清教徒。她似乎沉浸在狂喜之中，根本没有留意周围发生的事情。费尔顿做了个手势，示意她不要被打扰。一切安排妥当后，他就带着士兵悄悄出去了。

Milady knew she might be watched, so she continued her prayers to the end; and it appeared to her that the soldier who was on duty at her door did not march with the same step, and seemed to listen. For the moment she wished nothing better. She arose, came to the table, ate but little, and drank only water.
米莱迪知道她可能会被监视，所以她继续祈祷到底；在她看来，在她家门口值班的士兵并没有以同样的步伐前进，而是似乎在倾听。目前她不希望有更好的事情发生。她起身，来到餐桌旁，只吃了很少的东西，只喝了水。

An hour after, her table was cleared; but Milady remarked that this time Felton did not accompany the soldiers. He feared, then, to see her too often.
一小时后，她的桌子被清理干净了。但米莱迪表示，这次费尔顿没有陪伴士兵们。那么，他害怕经常见到她。

She turned toward the wall to smile—for there was in this smile such an expression of triumph that this smile alone would have betrayed her.
她转向墙壁微笑——因为这个微笑里有一种胜利的表情，光是这个微笑就会背叛她。

She allowed, therefore, half an hour to pass away; and as at that moment all was silence in the old castle, as nothing was heard but the eternal murmur of the waves—that immense breaking of the ocean—with her pure, harmonious, and powerful voice, she began the first couplet of the psalm then in great favor with the Puritans:
因此，她允许半个小时过去。在那一刻，古老的城堡里一片寂静，除了海浪永恒的低语声——大海的巨大破碎——她用她纯净、和谐、有力的声音开始了圣诗的第一对联。然后受到清教徒的极大青睐：

‘Thou leavest thy servants, Lord, To see if they be strong; But soon thou dost afford Thy hand to lead them on.’
‘主啊，你留下你的仆人，看看他们是否坚强；但很快你就会伸出你的手来带领他们。

These verses were not excellent—very far from it; but as it is well known, the Puritans did not pique themselves upon their poetry.
这些诗句并不出色——相去甚远；但众所周知，清教徒并不因他们的诗歌而激怒自己。

While singing, Milady listened. The soldier on guard at her door stopped, as if he had been changed into stone. Milady was then able to judge of the effect she had produced.
米莱迪边唱边听。守在她门口的士兵停了下来，仿佛变成了石头。米莱迪然后就可以判断她所产生的效果了。

Then she continued her singing with inexpressible fervor and feeling. It appeared to her that the sounds spread to a distance beneath the vaulted roofs, and carried with them a magic charm to soften the hearts of her jailers. It however likewise appeared that the soldier on duty—a zealous Catholic, no doubt—shook off the charm, for through the door he called: ‘Hold your tongue, madame! Your song is as dismal as a ‘De profundis’; and if besides the pleasure of being in garrison here, we must hear such things as these, no mortal can hold out.’
然后她继续唱着，带着难以言表的热情和感情。在她看来，声音传到拱形屋顶下很远的地方，并带有一种魔力，可以软化狱卒的心。然而，值班的士兵——无疑是一位热心的天主教徒——似乎也摆脱了这种魅力，因为他在门外喊道：“闭嘴，夫人！”你的歌就像一首《De profundis》一样阴郁；如果除了在这里驻军的乐趣之外，我们还必须听到这样的事情，那么任何凡人都无法忍受。

‘Silence!’ then exclaimed another stern voice which Milady recognized as that of Felton. ‘What are you meddling with, stupid? Did anybody order you to prevent that woman from singing? No. You were told to guard her—to fire at her if she attempted to fly. Guard her! If she flies, kill her; but don’t exceed your orders.’
“安静！”接着又响起了另一个严厉的声音，米莱迪认出那是费尔顿的声音。 ‘你在干涉什么，笨蛋？有人命令你阻止那个女人唱歌吗？不。你被告知要保护她——如果她试图飞行，就向她开火。守护她！如果她飞了，就杀掉她；但不要超出你的订单。”

An expression of unspeakable joy lightened the countenance of Milady; but this expression was fleeting as the reflection of lightning. Without appearing to have heard the dialogue, of which she had not lost a word, she began again, giving to her voice all the charm, all the power, all the seduction the demon had bestowed upon it:
米莱迪的脸上露出了难以形容的喜悦之情。但这种表情如闪电般转瞬即逝。她似乎没有听到对话，其中她没有丢失一个字，她又开始了，赋予她的声音所有的魅力，所有的力量，所有的诱惑恶魔赋予它：

‘For all my tears, my cares, My exile, and my chains, I have my youth, my prayers, And God, who counts my pains.’
“对于我所有的眼泪、我的忧虑、我的流放和我的锁链，我有我的青春，我的祈祷，还有上帝，他计算了我的痛苦。”

Her voice, of immense power and sublime expression, gave to the rude, unpolished poetry of these psalms a magic and an effect which the most exalted Puritans rarely found in the songs of their brethren, and which they were forced to ornament with all the resources of their imagination. Felton believed he heard the singing of the angel who consoled the three Hebrews in the furnace.
她的声音具有巨大的力量和崇高的表达力，给这些诗篇中粗鲁、未经修饰的诗歌赋予了一种魔力和效果，这是最崇高的清教徒在他们弟兄的歌曲中很少发现的，他们被迫用所有的资源来装饰它。他们的想象力。费尔顿相信他听到了天使的歌声，天使在熔炉中安慰了三个希伯来人。

Milady continued:
米莱迪继续说道：

‘One day our doors will ope, With God come our desire; And if betrays that hope, To death we can aspire.’
“有一天，我们的大门将敞开，上帝将带来我们的愿望；如果背叛了这个希望，我们可以渴望死亡。

This verse, into which the terrible enchantress threw her whole soul, completed the trouble which had seized the heart of the young officer. He opened the door quickly; and Milady saw him appear, pale as usual, but with his eye inflamed and almost wild.
那个可怕的女巫倾注了全部灵魂的这首诗，完成了困扰年轻军官的心的麻烦。他迅速打开门；米莱迪看到他出现了，脸色像往常一样苍白，但眼睛发炎，几乎狂野。

‘Why do you sing thus, and with such a voice?’ said he.
“你为什么唱这样的歌，用这样的声音？”他说。

‘Your pardon, sir,’ said Milady, with mildness. ‘I forgot that my songs are out of place in this castle. I have perhaps offended you in your creed; but it was without wishing to do so, I swear. Pardon me, then, a fault which is perhaps great, but which certainly was involuntary.’
“请原谅，先生，”米莱迪温和地说。 “我忘了我的歌与这座城堡格格不入。也许我的信条冒犯了你；但我发誓，那是无意的。那么，请原谅我，这个错误也许很大，但肯定是非自愿的。

Milady was so beautiful at this moment, the religious ecstasy in which she appeared to be plunged gave such an expression to her countenance, that Felton was so dazzled that he fancied he beheld the angel whom he had only just before heard.
米莱迪此时是如此美丽，她似乎陷入了宗教的狂喜之中，她的脸上呈现出这样的表情，以至于费尔顿感到如此眼花缭乱，他觉得自己看到了他刚刚听到的天使。

‘Yes, yes,’ said he; ‘you disturb, you agitate the people who live in the castle.’
“是的，是的，”他说。 “你打扰了，你激怒了住在城堡里的人们。”

The poor, senseless young man was not aware of the incoherence of his words, while Milady was reading with her lynx’s eyes the very depths of his heart.
这个可怜的、毫无知觉的年轻人并没有意识到自己话语中的语无伦次，而米莱迪则用她山猫般的眼睛解读着他的内心深处。

‘I will be silent, then,’ said Milady, casting down her eyes with all the sweetness she could give to her voice, with all the resignation she could impress upon her manner.
“那我就保持沉默吧，”米莱迪垂下眼睛，语气中尽显甜蜜，举止中尽显顺从。

‘No, no, madame,’ said Felton, ‘only do not sing so loud, particularly at night.’
“不，不，夫人，”费尔顿说，“只是不要唱得那么大声，尤其是在晚上。”

And at these words Felton, feeling that he could not long maintain his severity toward his prisoner, rushed out of the room.
听完这句话，费尔顿感到自己无法长久维持对囚犯的严厉态度，冲出了房间。

‘You have done right, Lieutenant,’ said the soldier. ‘Such songs disturb the mind; and yet we become accustomed to them, her voice is so beautiful.’
“你做得对，中尉，”士兵说。 ‘这样的歌曲扰乱心灵；但我们已经习惯了，她的声音是如此美丽。

54 CAPTIVITY: THE THIRD DAY
54 被囚禁：第三天

Felton had fallen; but there was still another step to be taken. He must be retained, or rather he must be left quite alone; and Milady but obscurely perceived the means which could lead to this result.
费尔顿倒下了；但还需要采取另一步骤。必须留下他，或者更确切地说，必须让他独自一人。而米莱迪却隐约察觉到了导致这个结果的手段。

Still more must be done. He must be made to speak, in order that he might be spoken to—for Milady very well knew that her greatest seduction was in her voice, which so skillfully ran over the whole gamut of tones from human speech to language celestial.
还必须做更多的工作。必须让他说话，以便有人可以对他说话——因为米莱迪非常清楚，她最大的诱惑在于她的声音，她的声音如此巧妙地涵盖了从人类语言到天语的整个语调。

Yet in spite of all this seduction Milady might fail—for Felton was forewarned, and that against the least chance. From that moment she watched all his actions, all his words, from the simplest glance of his eyes to his gestures—even to a breath that could be interpreted as a sigh. In short, she studied everything, as a skillful comedian does to whom a new part has been assigned in a line to which he is not accustomed.
然而，尽管有如此多的诱惑，米莱迪也可能会失败——因为费尔顿已经得到了预先警告，而且这是万无一失的。从那一刻起，她注视着他的一举一动，一言一行，从他最简单的眼神，到他的手势，甚至到一声可以理解为叹息的呼吸。简而言之，她研究了一切，就像一个熟练的喜剧演员在他不习惯的线路中被分配了一个新角色一样。

Face to face with Lord de Winter her plan of conduct was more easy. She had laid that down the preceding evening. To remain silent and dignified in his presence; from time to time to irritate him by affected disdain, by a contemptuous word; to provoke him to threats and violence which would produce a contrast with her own resignation—such was her plan. Felton would see all; perhaps he would say nothing, but he would see.
与德温特勋爵面对面时，她的行动计划更加轻松。她在前一天晚上就已经把它放下了。在他面前保持沉默和尊严；时不时地用假装的轻蔑、轻蔑的话语来激怒他；激怒他，对他进行威胁和暴力，这与她自己的辞职形成鲜明对比——这就是她的计划。费尔顿会看到一切；也许他不会说什么，但他会看到。

In the morning, Felton came as usual; but Milady allowed him to preside over all the preparations for breakfast without addressing a word to him. At the moment when he was about to retire, she was cheered with a ray of hope, for she thought he was about to speak; but his lips moved without any sound leaving his mouth, and making a powerful effort to control himself, he sent back to his heart the words that were about to escape from his lips, and went out. Toward midday, Lord de Winter entered.
早上，费尔顿像往常一样来了。但米莱迪任由他主持所有早餐的准备工作，没有对他说一句话。在他即将退休的那一刻，她心中充满了一线希望，因为她以为他要说话了；但他的嘴唇动了动，却没有发出任何声音，他用力控制自己，将即将脱口而出的话语送回心里，然后就出去了。中午时分，德·温特勋爵进来了。

It was a tolerably fine winter’s day, and a ray of that pale English sun which lights but does not warm came through the bars of her prison.
那是一个还算晴朗的冬日，一缕英国苍白的阳光透过监狱的铁栏照进来，虽然明亮，但并不温暖。

Milady was looking out at the window, and pretended not to hear the door as it opened.
米莱迪看着窗外，假装没有听到门打开的声音。

‘Ah, ah!’ said Lord de Winter, ‘after having played comedy, after having played tragedy, we are now playing melancholy?’
“啊，啊！”德温特勋爵说道，“演完喜剧，演完悲剧，我们现在又演忧郁了？”

The prisoner made no reply.
囚犯没有回答。

‘Yes, yes,’ continued Lord de Winter, ‘I understand. You would like very well to be at liberty on that beach! You would like very well to be in a good ship dancing upon the waves of that emerald-green sea; you would like very well, either on land or on the ocean, to lay for me one of those nice little ambuscades you are so skillful in planning. Patience, patience! In four days’ time the shore will be beneath your feet, the sea will be open to you—more open than will perhaps be agreeable to you, for in four days England will be relieved of you.’
“是的，是的，”德温特勋爵继续说道，“我明白。”您很想在那个海滩上自由自在！你很想坐在一艘好船里，在那翠绿色的大海的波涛上翩翩起舞；你很乐意，无论是在陆地上还是在海上，为我布置一场你策划得如此巧妙的小型伏击。耐心，耐心！四天内，海岸将在你的脚下，大海将向你敞开——比你可能愿意的还要开放，因为四天内英格兰将摆脱你。

Milady folded her hands, and raising her fine eyes toward heaven, ‘Lord, Lord,’ said she, with an angelic meekness of gesture and tone, ‘pardon this man, as I myself pardon him.’
米莱迪双手合十，抬起美丽的眼睛望向天空，“主啊，主啊，”她用天使般温柔的手势和语气说道，“请原谅这个人，就像我自己原谅他一样。”

‘Yes, pray, accursed woman!’ cried the baron; ‘your prayer is so much the more generous from your being, I swear to you, in the power of a man who will never pardon you!’ and he went out.
“是的，祈祷吧，该死的女人！”男爵喊道。 “我向你发誓，凭借一个永远不会原谅你的人的力量，你的祈祷更加慷慨！”说完他就出去了。

At the moment he went out a piercing glance darted through the opening of the nearly closed door, and she perceived Felton, who drew quickly to one side to prevent being seen by her.
就在他出去的那一刻，一道锐利的目光从几乎关着的门缝里射了进来，她看到了费尔顿，费尔顿迅速躲到一边以免被她看到。

Then she threw herself upon her knees, and began to pray.
然后她跪下，开始祈祷。

‘My God, my God!’ said she, ‘thou knowest in what holy cause I suffer; give me, then, strength to suffer.’
“我的上帝，我的上帝！”她说道，“你知道我因什么神圣的原因而受苦；那么请赐予我承受痛苦的力量。”

The door opened gently; the beautiful supplicant pretended not to hear the noise, and in a voice broken by tears, she continued:
门轻轻地开了；美丽的恳求者假装没有听到这声音，她用含着泪水的声音继续说道：

‘God of vengeance! God of goodness! wilt thou allow the frightful projects of this man to be accomplished?’
‘复仇之神！善良的上帝！你愿意允许这个人完成可怕的计划吗？

Then only she pretended to hear the sound of Felton’s steps, and rising quick as thought, she blushed, as if ashamed of being surprised on her knees.
然后，只有她假装听到了费尔顿的脚步声，并像她想的那样迅速站了起来，她脸红了，仿佛因为惊讶地跪下而感到羞愧。

‘I do not like to disturb those who pray, madame,’ said Felton, seriously; ‘do not disturb yourself on my account, I beseech you.’
“我不想打扰那些正在祈祷的人，夫人，”费尔顿严肃地说。 “请不要因为我而打扰自己，我恳求你。”

‘How do you know I was praying, sir?’ said Milady, in a voice broken by sobs. ‘You were deceived, sir; I was not praying.’
“你怎么知道我在祈祷呢，先生？”米莱迪的声音中充满了抽泣。 “您被骗了，先生；我没有祈祷。

‘Do you think, then, madame,’ replied Felton, in the same serious voice, but with a milder tone, ‘do you think I assume the right of preventing a creature from prostrating herself before her Creator? God forbid! Besides, repentance becomes the guilty; whatever crimes they may have committed, for me the guilty are sacred at the feet of God!’
“那么，夫人，你认为我有权利阻止一个生物在她的造物主面前跪拜吗？”费尔顿用同样严肃的声音回答，但语气更加温和了？上帝禁止！此外，悔改就成为有罪的；无论他们犯下什么罪行，对我来说，有罪的人在上帝脚下都是神圣的！”

‘Guilty? I?’ said Milady, with a smile which might have disarmed the angel of the last judgment. ‘Guilty? Oh, my God, thou knowest whether I am guilty! Say I am condemned, sir, if you please; but you know that God, who loves martyrs, sometimes permits the innocent to be condemned.’
'有罪的？我？”米莱迪说道，她的微笑可能会让最后审判的天使解除武装。 '有罪的？天哪，你知道我是否有罪！先生，请说我受到了谴责；但你知道，热爱殉道者的上帝有时会允许无辜者受到谴责。

‘Were you condemned, were you innocent, were you a martyr,’ replied Felton, ‘the greater would be the necessity for prayer; and I myself would aid you with my prayers.’
“如果你被定罪，如果你是无辜的，如果你是烈士，”费尔顿回答道，“祈祷的必要性就更大；”我本人会帮助你祈祷。

‘Oh, you are a just man!’ cried Milady, throwing herself at his feet. ‘I can hold out no longer, for I fear I shall be wanting in strength at the moment when I shall be forced to undergo the struggle, and confess my faith. Listen, then, to the supplication of a despairing woman. You are abused, sir; but that is not the question. I only ask you one favor; and if you grant it me, I will bless you in this world and in the next.’
“哦，你是一个正义的人！”米莱迪跪倒在他的脚下喊道。 “我不能再坚持了，因为我担心当我被迫进行斗争并承认我的信仰时，我会缺乏力量。那么，请听听一位绝望妇女的恳求。先生，你受到了虐待；但这不是问题所在。我只求你一件事；如果你答应我，我会在今世和来世祝福你。”

‘Speak to the master, madame,’ said Felton; ‘happily I am neither charged with the power of pardoning nor punishing. It is upon one higher placed than I am that God has laid this responsibility.’
“请跟主人说话，夫人，”费尔顿说道。 “幸运的是，我既没有被赋予赦免或惩罚的权力。上帝把这一责任交给了比我更高的人。

‘To you—no, to you alone! Listen to me, rather than add to my destruction, rather than add to my ignominy!’
‘对你——不，只对你一个人！听我的，不要增加我的毁灭，不要增加我的耻辱！

‘If you have merited this shame, madame, if you have incurred this ignominy, you must submit to it as an offering to God.’
“如果您应受这种耻辱，夫人，如果您遭受了这种耻辱，您必须将其视为对上帝的祭品。”

‘What do you say? Oh, you do not understand me! When I speak of ignominy, you think I speak of some chastisement, of imprisonment or death. Would to heaven! Of what consequence to me is imprisonment or death?’
'你怎么说？哦，你不明白我的意思！当我谈到耻辱时，你以为我谈到的是某种惩罚、监禁或死亡。愿上天堂！入狱或死亡对我有什么后果？

‘It is I who no longer understand you, madame,’ said Felton.
“是我不再理解您了，夫人，”费尔顿说。

‘Or, rather, who pretend not to understand me, sir!’ replied the prisoner, with a smile of incredulity.
“或者更确切地说，谁假装不理解我，先生！”囚犯回答道，脸上带着怀疑的微笑。

‘No, madame, on the honor of a soldier, on the faith of a Christian.’
“不，夫人，以军人的荣誉，以基督徒的信仰。”

‘What, you are ignorant of Lord de Winter’s designs upon me?’
“什么，你不知道德温特勋爵对我的阴谋吗？”

‘I am.’
'我是。'

‘Impossible; you are his confidant!’
'不可能的;你是他的知己！

‘I never lie, madame.’
“我从不说谎，女士。”

‘Oh, he conceals them too little for you not to divine them.’
“哦，他对它们隐藏得太少了，你无法猜到它们。”

‘I seek to divine nothing, madame; I wait till I am confided in, and apart from that which Lord de Winter has said to me before you, he has confided nothing to me.’
“我不想占卜什么，夫人；我等着别人向我吐露心声，除了德·温特勋爵在您面前对我说过的话之外，他什么也没向我吐露过。

‘Why, then,’ cried Milady, with an incredible tone of truthfulness, ‘you are not his accomplice; you do not know that he destines me to a disgrace which all the punishments of the world cannot equal in horror?’
“那么，”米莱迪用一种令人难以置信的诚实语气喊道，“你不是他的同谋；你是他的帮凶。”你不知道他注定要让我蒙受世上所有惩罚都无法比拟的耻辱吗？

‘You are deceived, madame,’ said Felton, blushing; ‘Lord de Winter is not capable of such a crime.’
“你被骗了，夫人，”费尔顿红着脸说道。 “德温特勋爵没有能力犯下这样的罪行。”

‘Good,’ said Milady to herself; ‘without thinking what it is, he calls it a crime!’ Then aloud, ‘The friend of THAT WRETCH is capable of everything.’
“很好，”米莱迪自言自语道。 “他不假思索地称其为犯罪！”然后大声说道，“那个可怜虫的朋友无所不能。”

‘Whom do you call ‘that wretch’?’ asked Felton.
“你管谁叫‘那个坏蛋’？”费尔顿问。

‘Are there, then, in England two men to whom such an epithet can be applied?’
“那么，在英国有两个人可以用这样的绰号来形容吗？”

‘You mean George Villiers?’ asked Felton, whose looks became excited.
“你是说乔治·维利尔斯？”费尔顿问道，他的表情变得兴奋起来。

‘Whom Pagans and unbelieving Gentiles call Duke of Buckingham,’ replied Milady. ‘I could not have thought that there was an Englishman in all England who would have required so long an explanation to make him understand of whom I was speaking.’
“异教徒和不信教的外邦人称他为白金汉公爵。”米莱迪回答道。 “我无法想象全英格兰有一个英国人需要这么长的解释才能让他明白我在说谁。”

‘The hand of the Lord is stretched over him,’ said Felton; ‘he will not escape the chastisement he deserves.’
“主的手已伸向他，”费尔顿说道。 “他将无法逃脱他应得的惩罚。”

Felton only expressed, with regard to the duke, the feeling of execration which all the English had declared toward him whom the Catholics themselves called the extortioner, the pillager, the debauchee, and whom the Puritans styled simply Satan.
费尔顿只是表达了所有英国人对公爵的咒骂之情，天主教徒称他为勒索者、掠夺者、放荡者，而清教徒则称他为撒旦。

‘Oh, my God, my God!’ cried Milady; ‘when I supplicate thee to pour upon this man the chastisement which is his due, thou knowest it is not my own vengeance I pursue, but the deliverance of a whole nation that I implore!’
“哦，我的上帝，我的上帝！”米莱迪喊道。 “当我恳求你对这个人施以他应得的惩罚时，你知道我追求的不是我自己的复仇，而是我恳求整个国家的拯救！”

‘Do you know him, then?’ asked Felton.
“那么你认识他吗？”费尔顿问道。

‘At length he interrogates me!’ said Milady to herself, at the height of joy at having obtained so quickly such a great result. ‘Oh, know him? Yes, yes! to my misfortune, to my eternal misfortune!’ and Milady twisted her arms as if in a paroxysm of grief.
“他终于审问了我！”米莱迪自言自语道，她为这么快就得到了这么好的结果而感到无比高兴。 ‘哦，认识他吗？是的是的！ “这就是我的不幸，我永远的不幸！”米莱迪扭动着双臂，仿佛陷入了极度的悲伤之中。

Felton no doubt felt within himself that his strength was abandoning him, and he made several steps toward the door; but the prisoner, whose eye never left him, sprang in pursuit of him and stopped him.
毫无疑问，费尔顿内心感到自己的力气正在消失，他向门口走了几步。但囚犯的目光始终没有离开过他，猛地追上他并阻止了他。

‘Sir,’ cried she, ‘be kind, be clement, listen to my prayer! That knife, which the fatal prudence of the baron deprived me of, because he knows the use I would make of it! Oh, hear me to the end! that knife, give it to me for a minute only, for mercy’s, for pity’s sake! I will embrace your knees! You shall shut the door that you may be certain I contemplate no injury to you! My God! to you—the only just, good, and compassionate being I have met with! To you—my preserver, perhaps! One minute that knife, one minute, a single minute, and I will restore it to you through the grating of the door. Only one minute, Mr. Felton, and you will have saved my honor!’
“先生，”她喊道，“仁慈一点，宽容一点，听听我的祈祷吧！”那把刀，男爵的致命的谨慎剥夺了我，因为他知道我会用它！哦，听我说到底！那把刀，就给我一分钟吧，看在怜悯的份上，看在怜悯的份上！我会拥抱你的膝盖！你应该关上门，这样你就可以确定我不会伤害你！我的上帝！你——我见过的唯一公正、善良、富有同情心的人！对你来说——也许是我的保护者！一分钟那把刀，一分钟，一分钟，我会透过门栅把它还给你。只需一分钟，费尔顿先生，你就能挽救我的荣誉！

‘To kill yourself?’ cried Felton, with terror, forgetting to withdraw his hands from the hands of the prisoner, ‘to kill yourself?’
“自杀？”费尔顿惊恐地喊道，忘记从囚犯手中抽回双手，“自杀？”

‘I have told, sir,’ murmured Milady, lowering her voice, and allowing herself to sink overpowered to the ground; ‘I have told my secret! He knows all! My God, I am lost!’
“我已经说过了，先生。”米莱迪低声说道，压低了声音，让自己无力地倒在了地上。 ‘我已经说出了我的秘密！他什么都知道！天哪，我迷路了！

Felton remained standing, motionless and undecided.
费尔顿仍然站着，一动不动，犹豫不决。

‘He still doubts,’ thought Milady; ‘I have not been earnest enough.’
“他仍然怀疑，”米莱迪想。 “我还不够认真。”

Someone was heard in the corridor; Milady recognized the step of Lord de Winter.
走廊里传来有人的声音；米莱迪认出了德温特勋爵的脚步。

Felton recognized it also, and made a step toward the door.
费尔顿也认出了它，并向门口迈出了一步。

Milady sprang toward him. ‘Oh, not a word,’ said she in a concentrated voice, ‘not a word of all that I have said to you to this man, or I am lost, and it would be you—you—‘
米莱迪向他扑来。 “哦，一个字都别说，”她集中声音说道，“我对这个男人对你说的一切，一个字也别说，否则我就迷路了，而那个人就是你——你——”

Then as the steps drew near, she became silent for fear of being heard, applying, with a gesture of infinite terror, her beautiful hand to Felton’s mouth.
然后，随着脚步声的临近，她因为害怕被听见而变得沉默，以一种无限恐惧的姿态，用她美丽的手捂住了费尔顿的嘴。

Felton gently repulsed Milady, and she sank into a chair.
费尔顿轻轻地拒绝了米莱迪，她坐到了椅子上。

Lord de Winter passed before the door without stopping, and they heard the noise of his footsteps soon die away.
温特勋爵从门前走过，没有停留，他们听到他的脚步声很快就消失了。

Felton, as pale as death, remained some instants with his ear bent and listening; then, when the sound was quite extinct, he breathed like a man awaking from a dream, and rushed out of the apartment.
费尔顿脸色苍白得像死人一样，他呆了一会儿，侧着耳朵听着。然后，等声音完全消失后，他才如梦初醒般喘着气，冲出了公寓。

‘Ah!’ said Milady, listening in her turn to the noise of Felton’s steps, which withdrew in a direction opposite to those of Lord de Winter; ‘at length you are mine!’
“啊！”米莱迪一边听着费尔顿的脚步声一边说道，那脚步声朝与德温特勋爵相反的方向退去。 “你终于是我的了！”

Then her brow darkened. ‘If he tells the baron,’ said she, ‘I am lost—for the baron, who knows very well that I shall not kill myself, will place me before him with a knife in my hand, and he will discover that all this despair is but acted.’
然后她的眉头就暗了下来。 “如果他告诉男爵，”她说，“我就迷路了——因为男爵很清楚我不会自杀，他会把我手里拿着刀放在他面前，他会发现这一切绝望只是行动。

She placed herself before the glass, and regarded herself attentively; never had she appeared more beautiful.
她站在玻璃前，聚精会神地打量着自己。她从未显得如此美丽。

‘Oh, yes,’ said she, smiling, ‘but we won’t tell him!’
“哦，是的，”她微笑着说，“但我们不会告诉他！”

In the evening Lord de Winter accompanied the supper.
晚上，德温特勋爵陪同共进晚餐。

‘Sir,’ said Milady, ‘is your presence an indispensable accessory of my captivity? Could you not spare me the increase of torture which your visits cause me?’
“先生，”米莱迪说道，“您的存在是我被囚禁不可或缺的一部分吗？你难道不能免除你的来访给我带来的更多折磨吗？

‘How, dear sister!’ said Lord de Winter. ‘Did not you sentimentally inform me with that pretty mouth of yours, so cruel to me today, that you came to England solely for the pleasure of seeing me at your ease, an enjoyment of which you told me you so sensibly felt the deprivation that you had risked everything for it—seasickness, tempest, captivity? Well, here I am; be satisfied. Besides, this time, my visit has a motive.’
“怎么样，亲爱的妹妹！”德温特勋爵说道。 “你今天对我如此残酷，难道你不是用你那张漂亮的嘴感伤地告诉我，你来到英国只是为了看到我轻松自在，一种享受，你告诉我你如此明显地感受到了被剥夺，你为此冒了一切风险——晕船、暴风雨、被囚禁？好吧，我在这里；满意。再说了，我这次来也是有目的的。”

Milady trembled; she thought Felton had told all. Perhaps never in her life had this woman, who had experienced so many opposite and powerful emotions, felt her heart beat so violently.
米莱迪浑身发抖。她以为费尔顿已经告诉了一切。或许，这个经历过如此多对立而强烈的情感的女人，一生中从来没有感觉到自己的心跳得如此剧烈过。

She was seated. Lord de Winter took a chair, drew it toward her, and sat down close beside her. Then taking a paper out of his pocket, he unfolded it slowly.
她坐下了。温特勋爵拿了一把椅子，把它拉向她，紧挨着她坐下。然后从口袋里掏出一张纸，缓缓展开。

‘Here,’ said he, ‘I want to show you the kind of passport which I have drawn up, and which will serve you henceforward as the rule of order in the life I consent to leave you.’
“在这里，”他说，“我想给你看我起草的那种护照，从今以后，它将成为你在我同意离开你的生活中的秩序规则。”

Then turning his eyes from Milady to the paper, he read: ‘‘Order to conduct—‘ The name is blank,’ interrupted Lord de Winter. ‘If you have any preference you can point it out to me; and if it be not within a thousand leagues of London, attention will be paid to your wishes. I will begin again, then:
然后他把目光从米莱迪身上转向报纸，读道：“命令执行——”名字是空白的，”德温特勋爵打断道。 ‘如果你有任何偏好，可以向我指出；如果不在距伦敦一千里的范围内，我们会关注您的意愿。那么我重新开始：

‘‘Order to conduct to—the person named Charlotte Backson, branded by the justice of the kingdom of France, but liberated after chastisement. She is to dwell in this place without ever going more than three leagues from it. In case of any attempt to escape, the penalty of death is to be applied. She will receive five shillings per day for lodging and food’’.
“命令执行——一个名叫夏洛特·巴克森的人，被法兰西王国的法官打上烙印，但在惩罚后被释放。”她将居住在这个地方，并且不能离开它超过三里格。如果企图逃跑，将被判处死刑。她每天将收到五先令的住宿和食物费用。”

‘That order does not concern me,’ replied Milady, coldly, ‘since it bears another name than mine.’
“这个命令与我无关，”米莱迪冷冷地回答，“因为它的名字不是我的。”

‘A name? Have you a name, then?’
'一个名字？那么你有名字吗？

‘I bear that of your brother.’
“我继承了你兄弟的那份。”

‘Ay, but you are mistaken. My brother is only your second husband; and your first is still living. Tell me his name, and I will put it in the place of the name of Charlotte Backson. No? You will not? You are silent? Well, then you must be registered as Charlotte Backson.’
‘哎呀，但是你错了。我哥哥只是你的第二任丈夫；而你的第一个还活着。告诉我他的名字，我会把它放在夏洛特·巴克森名字的地方。不？你不会？你很安静？好吧，那么你必须注册为夏洛特·巴克森。

Milady remained silent; only this time it was no longer from affectation, but from terror. She believed the order ready for execution. She thought that Lord de Winter had hastened her departure; she thought she was condemned to set off that very evening. Everything in her mind was lost for an instant; when all at once she perceived that no signature was attached to the order. The joy she felt at this discovery was so great she could not conceal it.
米莱迪保持沉默。只不过这一次不再是出于做作，而是出于恐惧。她相信命令已准备好执行。她认为德温特勋爵加速了她的离开；但事实并非如此。她认为她注定要在当天晚上出发。一瞬间她脑子里的一切都失去了。她突然发现订单上没有签名。她对这个发现感到无比的喜悦，无法掩饰。

‘Yes, yes,’ said Lord de Winter, who perceived what was passing in her mind; ‘yes, you look for the signature, and you say to yourself: ‘All is not lost, for that order is not signed. It is only shown to me to terrify me, that’s all.’ You are mistaken. Tomorrow this order will be sent to the Duke of Buckingham. The day after tomorrow it will return signed by his hand and marked with his seal; and four-and-twenty hours afterward I will answer for its being carried into execution. Adieu, madame. That is all I had to say to you.’
“是的，是的，”德温特勋爵说，他察觉到了她心里的想法。 “是的，你寻找签名，然后对自己说：‘一切都还没有丢失，因为该命令还没有签名。它只是展示给我看以吓唬我，仅此而已。’你错了。明天该命令将发送给白金汉公爵。后天，他会亲笔签名并盖上印章返回。四又二十个小时后，我将负责其执行。再见，女士。这就是我要对你说的一切。

‘And I reply to you, sir, that this abuse of power, this exile under a fictitious name, are infamous!’
“我回答你，先生，这种滥用权力、这种以假名流放的行为是臭名昭著的！”

‘Would you like better to be hanged in your true name, Milady? You know that the English laws are inexorable on the abuse of marriage. Speak freely. Although my name, or rather that of my brother, would be mixed up with the affair, I will risk the scandal of a public trial to make myself certain of getting rid of you.’
“你愿意以你的真名被绞死吗，米莱迪？你知道英国法律对于滥用婚姻是无情的。畅所欲言。虽然我的名字，或者更确切地说是我兄弟的名字，会与这件事混在一起，但我会冒着公开审判丑闻的风险，以确保自己摆脱你。

Milady made no reply, but became as pale as a corpse.
米莱狄没有回答，脸色惨白如死人。

‘Oh, I see you prefer peregrination. That’s well madame; and there is an old proverb that says, ‘Traveling trains youth.’ My faith! you are not wrong after all, and life is sweet. That’s the reason why I take such care you shall not deprive me of mine. There only remains, then, the question of the five shillings to be settled. You think me rather parsimonious, don’t you? That’s because I don’t care to leave you the means of corrupting your jailers. Besides, you will always have your charms left to seduce them with. Employ them, if your check with regard to Felton has not disgusted you with attempts of that kind.’
“哦，我看你更喜欢旅行。很好，夫人；有一句古老的谚语说：“旅行锻炼青春。”我的信仰！你终究没有错，生活是甜蜜的。这就是为什么我如此小心，你不能剥夺我的。那么，只剩下五先令的问题需要解决了。你觉得我很节俭，不是吗？那是因为我不想给你留下腐蚀狱卒的手段。此外，你总会有自己的魅力来吸引他们。如果你对费尔顿的检查没有让你对此类尝试感到厌恶，那就雇用他们吧。

‘Felton has not told him,’ said Milady to herself. ‘Nothing is lost, then.’
“费尔顿没有告诉他，”米莱迪自言自语道。 “那么，就没有什么损失了。”

‘And now, madame, till I see you again! Tomorrow I will come and announce to you the departure of my messenger.’
“现在，夫人，直到我再次见到你为止！”明天我会来向你们宣布我的使者离开的消息。

Lord de Winter rose, saluted her ironically, and went out.
温特勋爵起身，讽刺地向她行了个礼，然后出去了。

Milady breathed again. She had still four days before her. Four days would quite suffice to complete the seduction of Felton.
米莱迪又呼吸了。距离她出发还有四天。四天的时间足以完成对费尔顿的诱惑。

A terrible idea, however, rushed into her mind. She thought that Lord de Winter would perhaps send Felton himself to get the order signed by the Duke of Buckingham. In that case Felton would escape her—for in order to secure success, the magic of a continuous seduction was necessary. Nevertheless, as we have said, one circumstance reassured her. Felton had not spoken.
然而，一个可怕的想法突然涌入她的脑海。她认为德温特勋爵也许会派费尔顿亲自去让白金汉公爵签署命令。在这种情况下，费尔顿就会逃离她——因为为了获得成功，持续诱惑的魔力是必要的。然而，正如我们所说，有一种情况让她放心了。费尔顿没有说话。

As she would not appear to be agitated by the threats of Lord de Winter, she placed herself at the table and ate.
由于她似乎没有被德温特勋爵的威胁所激怒，所以她坐在桌边吃饭。

Then, as she had done the evening before, she fell on her knees and repeated her prayers aloud. As on the evening before, the soldier stopped his march to listen to her.
然后，就像她前一天晚上所做的那样，她跪下并大声重复祈祷。和前一天晚上一样，士兵停止了行军，听她说话。

Soon after she heard lighter steps than those of the sentinel, which came from the end of the corridor and stopped before her door.
不久之后，她听到了比哨兵更轻的脚步声，哨兵从走廊尽头传来，停在了她的门前。

‘It is he,’ said she. And she began the same religious chant which had so strongly excited Felton the evening before.
“是他，”她说。她开始唱同样的宗教圣歌，前一天晚上让费尔顿非常兴奋。

But although her voice—sweet, full, and sonorous—vibrated as harmoniously and as affectingly as ever, the door remained shut. It appeared however to Milady that in one of the furtive glances she darted from time to time at the grating of the door she thought she saw the ardent eyes of the young man through the narrow opening. But whether this was reality or vision, he had this time sufficient self-command not to enter.
然而，尽管她的声音甜美、饱满、铿锵，振动一如既往地和谐、动人，门仍然关着。然而，米莱迪似乎时不时地偷偷地瞥一眼门栅，她以为自己从狭窄的门缝里看到了年轻人热切的眼睛。但无论是现实还是幻象，他这次都有足够的自制力，没有进去。

However, a few instants after she had finished her religious song, Milady thought she heard a profound sigh. Then the same steps she had heard approach slowly withdrew, as if with regret.
然而，就在她唱完宗教歌曲后不久，米莱迪觉得她听到了一声深深的叹息。然后，她听到的同样的脚步声慢慢退去，仿佛带着遗憾。

55 CAPTIVITY: THE FOURTH DAY
55 被囚禁：第四天

The next day, when Felton entered Milady’s apartment he found her standing, mounted upon a chair, holding in her hands a cord made by means of torn cambric handkerchiefs, twisted into a kind of rope one with another, and tied at the ends. At the noise Felton made in entering, Milady leaped lightly to the ground, and tried to conceal behind her the improvised cord she held in her hand.
第二天，当费尔顿走进米莱迪的公寓时，他发现她站着，坐在椅子上，手里拿着一根用撕破的麻布手帕制成的绳子，一根一根地扭成一种绳子，两端系着。听到费尔顿进来的声音，米莱迪轻轻地跳到地上，试图把手里拿着的临时绳子藏在身后。

The young man was more pale than usual, and his eyes, reddened by want of sleep, denoted that he had passed a feverish night. Nevertheless, his brow was armed with a severity more austere than ever.
年轻人的脸色比平常更加苍白，眼睛因缺乏睡眠而发红，表明他已经度过了一个发烧的夜晚。尽管如此，他的眉头却比以往更加严肃。

He advanced slowly toward Milady, who had seated herself, and taking an end of the murderous rope which by neglect, or perhaps by design, she allowed to be seen, ‘What is this, madame?’ he asked coldly.
他慢慢地向米莱迪走去，米拉迪已经坐下了，他拿起那根凶恶的绳子的一端，由于疏忽，或者可能是故意，她让人们看到了这条绳子，“这是什么，夫人？”他冷冷地问。

‘That? Nothing,’ said Milady, smiling with that painful expression which she knew so well how to give to her smile. ‘Ennui is the mortal enemy of prisoners; I had ennui, and I amused myself with twisting that rope.’
'那？没什么。”米莱迪微笑着说道，脸上带着痛苦的表情，她很清楚如何展现这种笑容。 “倦怠是囚犯的死敌；我很无聊，就以扭绳子为乐。

Felton turned his eyes toward the part of the wall of the apartment before which he had found Milady standing in the armchair in which she was now seated, and over her head he perceived a gilt-headed screw, fixed in the wall for the purpose of hanging up clothes or weapons.
费尔顿将目光转向公寓墙壁的一部分，他发现米莱迪站在她现在坐的扶手椅上，在她的头顶上，他看到了一个镀金头的螺丝，固定在墙上，目的是为了挂衣服或武器。

He started, and the prisoner saw that start—for though her eyes were cast down, nothing escaped her.
他吃了一惊，囚犯也看到了他的一惊——尽管她的目光低垂着，但什么也没有逃过她的眼睛。

‘What were you doing on that armchair?’ asked he.
“你在那张扶手椅上做什么？”他问。

‘Of what consequence?’ replied Milady.
“有什么后果呢？”米莱迪回答道。

‘But,’ replied Felton, ‘I wish to know.’
“但是，”费尔顿回答道，“我想知道。”

‘Do not question me,’ said the prisoner; ‘you know that we who are true Christians are forbidden to lie.’
“别问我，”囚犯说。 “你知道我们这些真正的基督徒是被禁止说谎的。”

‘Well, then,’ said Felton, ‘I will tell you what you were doing, or rather what you meant to do; you were going to complete the fatal project you cherish in your mind. Remember, madame, if our God forbids falsehood, he much more severely condemns suicide.’
“好吧，那么，”费尔顿说，“我会告诉你你在做什么，或者更确切地说，你打算做什么；你即将完成你心中珍视的致命项目。请记住，女士，如果我们的上帝禁止谎言，他就会更加严厉地谴责自杀。”

‘When God sees one of his creatures persecuted unjustly, placed between suicide and dishonor, believe me, sir,’ replied Milady, in a tone of deep conviction, ‘God pardons suicide, for then suicide becomes martyrdom.’
“当上帝看到他的一个创造物受到不公正的迫害，置于自杀和耻辱之间时，请相信我，先生，”米莱迪用一种深信不疑的语气回答道，“上帝赦免自杀，因为那样自杀就成了殉道。”

‘You say either too much or too little; speak, madame. In the name of heaven, explain yourself.’
‘你要么说太多，要么说太少；说话吧，女士。以天堂的名义，解释一下你自己。

‘That I may relate my misfortunes for you to treat them as fables; that I may tell you my projects for you to go and betray them to my persecutor? No, sir. Besides, of what importance to you is the life or death of a condemned wretch? You are only responsible for my body, is it not so? And provided you produce a carcass that may be recognized as mine, they will require no more of you; nay, perhaps you will even have a double reward.’
‘我可以向你们讲述我的不幸，让你们把它们当作寓言；我可以告诉你我的计划，让你去把它们出卖给我的迫害者吗？不，先生。再说了，一个被定罪的可怜虫的生死对你来说还有什么重要意义呢？你只对我的身体负责不是吗？只要你能生产出一具可以被认为是我的尸体，他们就不再需要你了；不，也许你甚至会得到双倍的奖励。

‘I, madame, I?’ cried Felton. ‘You suppose that I would ever accept the price of your life? Oh, you cannot believe what you say!’
“我，夫人，我？”费尔顿喊道。 ‘你认为我会接受你的生命作为代价吗？哦，你简直不敢相信你说的话！

‘Let me act as I please, Felton, let me act as I please,’ said Milady, elated. ‘Every soldier must be ambitious, must he not? You are a lieutenant? Well, you will follow me to the grave with the rank of captain.’
“让我随心所欲，费尔顿，让我随心所欲，”米莱迪兴高采烈地说。 “每个士兵都必须有雄心壮志，不是吗？你是中尉？好吧，你将以队长的军衔跟随我到坟墓。”

‘What have I, then, done to you,’ said Felton, much agitated, ‘that you should load me with such a responsibility before God and before men? In a few days you will be away from this place; your life, madame, will then no longer be under my care, and,’ added he, with a sigh, ‘then you can do what you will with it.’
“那么，我对你做了什么，”费尔顿非常激动地说道，“你竟然让我在上帝和人类面前承担这样的责任？”几天后你就会离开这个地方；夫人，你的生活将不再受我照顾，而且，”他叹了口气，补充道，“然后你就可以用它做你想做的事了。”

‘So,’ cried Milady, as if she could not resist giving utterance to a holy indignation, ‘you, a pious man, you who are called a just man, you ask but one thing—and that is that you may not be inculpated, annoyed, by my death!’
“所以，”米莱迪喊道，仿佛她无法抗拒地表达一种神圣的愤慨，“你，一个虔诚的人，你这个被称为正义的人，你只要求一件事——那就是你可以不被指责，对我的死感到恼火！

‘It is my duty to watch over your life, madame, and I will watch.’
“照顾您的生活是我的职责，女士，我会照顾的。”

‘But do you understand the mission you are fulfilling? Cruel enough, if I am guilty; but what name can you give it, what name will the Lord give it, if I am innocent?’
‘但是你了解你正在履行的使命吗？如果我有罪的话，那就够残酷了；但如果我是无辜的，你能给它起什么名字，主会给它起什么名字呢？

‘I am a soldier, madame, and fulfill the orders I have received.’
“我是一名士兵，女士，我会执行我收到的命令。”

‘Do you believe, then, that at the day of the Last Judgment God will separate blind executioners from iniquitous judges? You are not willing that I should kill my body, and you make yourself the agent of him who would kill my soul.’
“那么，你相信在最后审判的那一天，上帝会将盲目的刽子手与不公正的法官分开吗？你不愿意我杀死我的身体，你让自己成为杀死我灵魂的人的代理人。

‘But I repeat it again to you,’ replied Felton, in great emotion, ‘no danger threatens you; I will answer for Lord de Winter as for myself.’
“但是我再向你重复一遍，”费尔顿激动地回答道，“没有危险威胁到你；你不会受到任何威胁。”我将为德温特勋爵负责，也将为我自己负责。

‘Dunce,’ cried Milady, ‘dunce! who dares to answer for another man, when the wisest, when those most after God’s own heart, hesitate to answer for themselves, and who ranges himself on the side of the strongest and the most fortunate, to crush the weakest and the most unfortunate.’
“笨蛋，”米莱迪喊道，“笨蛋！”当最明智的人，当那些最合上帝心意的人犹豫不决为自己负责时，谁敢于为另一个人负责，谁站在最强大和最幸运的一边，压垮最弱小和最不幸的人。 '

‘Impossible, madame, impossible,’ murmured Felton, who felt to the bottom of his heart the justness of this argument. ‘A prisoner, you will not recover your liberty through me; living, you will not lose your life through me.’
“不可能，夫人，不可能。”费尔顿低声说道，他从心底里感受到了这个论点的合理性。 ‘身为囚犯，你无法通过我重获自由；活着，你不会因为我而失去生命。”

‘Yes,’ cried Milady, ‘but I shall lose that which is much dearer to me than life, I shall lose my honor, Felton; and it is you, you whom I make responsible, before God and before men, for my shame and my infamy.’
“是的，”米莱迪喊道，“但是我将失去比生命更珍贵的东西，我将失去我的荣誉，费尔顿；我要让你在上帝和人面前为我的耻辱和耻辱负责。

This time Felton, immovable as he was, or appeared to be, could not resist the secret influence which had already taken possession of him. To see this woman, so beautiful, fair as the brightest vision, to see her by turns overcome with grief and threatening; to resist at once the ascendancy of grief and beauty—it was too much for a visionary; it was too much for a brain weakened by the ardent dreams of an ecstatic faith; it was too much for a heart furrowed by the love of heaven that burns, by the hatred of men that devours.
这一次，费尔顿虽然一动不动，或者看起来一动不动，却无法抗拒已经占据了他的秘密影响力。看到这个女人，如此美丽，如此美丽，就像最明亮的视野一样，看到她时而感到悲伤，时而感到威胁；立即抵制悲伤和美丽的统治——这对于一个有远见的人来说是难以承受的。对于一个因狂喜信仰的热切梦想而削弱的大脑来说，这实在是太难以承受了。对于一颗因天国之爱的燃烧、因人类的仇恨而吞噬的心来说，这实在是太难以忍受了。

Milady saw the trouble. She felt by intuition the flame of the opposing passions which burned with the blood in the veins of the young fanatic. As a skillful general, seeing the enemy ready to surrender, marches toward him with a cry of victory, she rose, beautiful as an antique priestess, inspired like a Christian virgin, her arms extended, her throat uncovered, her hair disheveled, holding with one hand her robe modestly drawn over her breast, her look illumined by that fire which had already created such disorder in the veins of the young Puritan, and went toward him, crying out with a vehement air, and in her melodious voice, to which on this occasion she communicated a terrible energy:
米莱迪看出了麻烦。她凭直觉感受到了相反的激情的火焰，它随着年轻狂热者血管中的血液而燃烧。作为一位精明的将领，看到敌人准备投降，带着胜利的呐喊向他走来，她站了起来，美丽如古时的女祭司，灵感如基督教的处女，她张开双臂，裸露喉咙，披头散发，抱着一只手端庄地把长袍拉到胸前，她的神情被那已在年轻清教徒的血管中造成如此混乱的火焰所照亮，她走向他，用一种激烈的气氛和她那悠扬的声音喊叫着，这次她传达出一种可怕的能量：

‘Let this victim to Baal be sent, To the lions the martyr be thrown! Thy God shall teach thee to repent! From th’ abyss he’ll give ear to my moan.’
‘让这个受害者被送到巴力那里，把烈士扔到狮子那里去！你的神会教导你悔改！他会从深渊里倾听我的呻吟。

Felton stood before this strange apparition like one petrified.
费尔顿站在这个奇怪的幽灵面前，像被石化了一样。

‘Who art thou? Who art thou?’ cried he, clasping his hands. ‘Art thou a messenger from God; art thou a minister from hell; art thou an angel or a demon; callest thou thyself Eloa or Astarte?’
‘你是谁？ “你是谁？”他紧握着双手喊道。 ‘你是上帝的使者吗？你是来自地狱的牧师吗？你是天使还是恶魔？你称自己为埃洛亚还是阿斯塔特？

‘Do you not know me, Felton? I am neither an angel nor a demon; I am a daughter of earth, I am a sister of thy faith, that is all.’
“你不认识我吗，费尔顿？我既不是天使，也不是恶魔；我是大地的女儿，我是你信仰的姐妹，仅此而已。

‘Yes, yes!’ said Felton, ‘I doubted, but now I believe.’
“是的，是的！”费尔顿说，“我曾怀疑过，但现在我相信了。”

‘You believe, and still you are an accomplice of that child of Belial who is called Lord de Winter! You believe, and yet you leave me in the hands of mine enemies, of the enemy of England, of the enemy of God! You believe, and yet you deliver me up to him who fills and defiles the world with his heresies and debaucheries—to that infamous Sardanapalus whom the blind call the Duke of Buckingham, and whom believers name Antichrist!’
“你相信，但你仍然是那个被称为温特勋爵的贝利亚之子的同谋！你相信，但你却把我留在我的敌人手中，英国的敌人，上帝的敌人手中！你相信，却把我交给那个用异端邪说和放荡充斥和玷污世界的人——那个臭名昭著的萨达纳帕勒斯，盲人称他为白金汉公爵，信徒称他为敌基督！

‘I deliver you up to Buckingham? I? what mean you by that?’
“我送你去白金汉？”我？你这是什么意思？

‘They have eyes,’ cried Milady, ‘but they see not; ears have they, but they hear not.’
“他们有眼睛，”米莱迪喊道，“但他们看不见；他们有耳朵，但他们听不到。

‘Yes, yes!’ said Felton, passing his hands over his brow, covered with sweat, as if to remove his last doubt. ‘Yes, I recognize the voice which speaks to me in my dreams; yes, I recognize the features of the angel who appears to me every night, crying to my soul, which cannot sleep: ‘Strike, save England, save thyself— for thou wilt die without having appeased God!’ Speak, speak!’ cried Felton, ‘I can understand you now.’
“是的，是的！”费尔顿说，双手捂着额头，满头大汗，仿佛要消除他最后的疑虑。 “是的，我认出了在梦中对我说话的声音；是的，我认出了每天晚上出现在我面前的天使的面貌，他向我无法入睡的灵魂呼喊：“罢工，拯救英格兰，拯救你自己——因为如果没有安抚上帝，你就会死去！”说吧，说吧！费尔顿：“我现在能理解你了。”

A flash of terrible joy, but rapid as thought, gleamed from the eyes of Milady.
米莱迪的眼中闪过一丝可怕的喜悦，但速度和思想一样快。

However fugitive this homicide flash, Felton saw it, and started as if its light had revealed the abysses of this woman’s heart. He recalled, all at once, the warnings of Lord de Winter, the seductions of Milady, her first attempts after her arrival. He drew back a step, and hung down his head, without, however, ceasing to look at her, as if, fascinated by this strange creature, he could not detach his eyes from her eyes.
无论这凶杀的闪光多么难以捉摸，费尔顿都看到了它，并吃了一惊，仿佛它的光芒揭示了这个女人内心的深渊。他突然回忆起德温特勋爵的警告、米莱迪的诱惑以及她抵达后的第一次尝试。他退后一步，低下头，却没有停止地看着她，仿佛被这个奇怪的生物迷住了，无法将目光从她的眼睛上移开。

Milady was not a woman to misunderstand the meaning of this hesitation. Under her apparent emotions her icy coolness never abandoned her. Before Felton replied, and before she should be forced to resume this conversation, so difficult to be sustained in the same exalted tone, she let her hands fall; and as if the weakness of the woman overpowered the enthusiasm of the inspired fanatic, she said: ‘But no, it is not for me to be the Judith to deliver Bethulia from this Holofernes. The sword of the eternal is too heavy for my arm. Allow me, then, to avoid dishonor by death; let me take refuge in martyrdom. I do not ask you for liberty, as a guilty one would, nor for vengeance, as would a pagan. Let me die; that is all. I supplicate you, I implore you on my knees—let me die, and my last sigh shall be a blessing for my preserver.’
米莱迪不是一个女人，不会误解这种犹豫的含义。在她明显的情绪下，她的冰冷却从未抛弃过她。在费尔顿回答之前，在她被迫继续这场谈话之前，她很难保持同样崇高的语气，她放下了手；仿佛这个女人的软弱压倒了受鼓舞的狂热分子的热情，她说：“但是不，我不应该成为朱迪思，把贝图利亚从这个霍洛弗尼手中救出来。”永恒之剑对于我的手臂来说太重了。那么，请允许我避免因死亡而蒙受耻辱；让我以殉道为避难所。我不会像有罪的人那样要求你们自由，也不会像异教徒那样要求你们复仇。让我死;就这些。我恳求你，我跪下恳求你——让我死吧，我最后的叹息将成为我的保护者的祝福。

Hearing that voice, so sweet and suppliant, seeing that look, so timid and downcast, Felton reproached himself. By degrees the enchantress had clothed herself with that magic adornment which she assumed and threw aside at will; that is to say, beauty, meekness, and tears—and above all, the irresistible attraction of mystical voluptuousness, the most devouring of all voluptuousness.
听到那声音，那么甜美和恳求，看到那表情，那么胆怯和沮丧，费尔顿责备自己。渐渐地，女巫已经给自己穿上了魔法装饰品，她随意地把它放在一边。也就是说，美丽、温柔和泪水——最重要的是，神秘的性感的不可抗拒的吸引力，所有性感中最具有吞噬性的。

‘Alas!’ said Felton, ‘I can do but one thing, which is to pity you if you prove to me you are a victim! But Lord de Winter makes cruel accusations against you. You are a Christian; you are my sister in religion. I feel myself drawn toward you—I, who have never loved anyone but my benefactor—I who have met with nothing but traitors and impious men. But you, madame, so beautiful in reality, you, so pure in appearance, must have committed great iniquities for Lord de Winter to pursue you thus.’
“唉！”费尔顿说，“我只能做一件事，那就是如果你向我证明你是受害者，我会怜悯你！”但德温特勋爵对你提出了残酷的指控。你是基督徒；你是我宗教上的姐妹。我感到自己被你吸引了——我，除了我的恩人之外，从来没有爱过任何人——我除了叛徒和不敬虔的人之外，什么也没遇到过。但夫人，您实际上如此美丽，您外表如此纯洁，德温特勋爵如此追求您，一定是犯了大罪。”

‘They have eyes,’ repeated Milady, with an accent of indescribable grief, ‘but they see not; ears have they, but they hear not.’
“他们有眼睛，”米莱迪重复道，语气中带着难以形容的悲伤，“但他们看不见；他们有耳朵，但他们听不到。

‘But,’ cried the young officer, ‘speak, then, speak!’
“但是，”年轻军官喊道，“说吧，说吧！”

‘Confide my shame to you,’ cried Milady, with the blush of modesty upon her countenance, ‘for often the crime of one becomes the shame of another—confide my shame to you, a man, and I a woman? Oh,’ continued she, placing her hand modestly over her beautiful eyes, ‘never! never!—I could not!’
“把我的耻辱告诉你吧，”米莱迪喊道，脸上带着羞涩的红晕，“因为一个人的罪行往往会成为另一个人的耻辱——把我的耻辱告诉你，一个男人，而我一个女人？哦，”她继续说道，谦虚地把手放在她美丽的眼睛上，“从来没有！从来没有！——我不能！”

‘To me, to a brother?’ said Felton.
“对我，对兄弟？”费尔顿说。

Milady looked at him for some time with an expression which the young man took for doubt, but which, however, was nothing but observation, or rather the wish to fascinate.
米莱迪看了他一会儿，脸上的表情被年轻人视为怀疑，但其实那只不过是观察，或者更确切地说是想迷惑他。

Felton, in his turn a suppliant, clasped his hands.
费尔顿紧握双手，恳求道。

‘Well, then,’ said Milady, ‘I confide in my brother; I will dare to—‘
“那么，”米莱迪说，“我向我哥哥吐露心声；我敢于——”

At this moment the steps of Lord de Winter were heard; but this time the terrible brother-in-law of Milady did not content himself, as on the preceding day, with passing before the door and going away again. He paused, exchanged two words with the sentinel; then the door opened, and he appeared.
就在这时，听见了温特勋爵的脚步声。但这一次，米莱迪可怕的姐夫并不像前一天那样，从门前经过，又走了。他停了下来，与哨兵交换了两个词；然后门开了，他出现了。

During the exchange of these two words Felton drew back quickly, and when Lord de Winter entered, he was several paces from the prisoner.
在交换这两个词的过程中，费尔顿迅速后退，当德温特勋爵进来时，他距离囚犯只有几步之遥。

The baron entered slowly, sending a scrutinizing glance from Milady to the young officer.
男爵缓缓走进来，目光从米莱迪身上扫向年轻军官。

‘You have been here a very long time, John,’ said he. ‘Has this woman been relating her crimes to you? In that case I can comprehend the length of the conversation.’
“你在这里已经很长时间了，约翰，”他说。 “这个女人有没有向你讲述她的罪行？这样的话我就能理解谈话的长度了。

Felton started; and Milady felt she was lost if she did not come to the assistance of the disconcerted Puritan.
费尔顿开始了；米莱迪觉得，如果她不去帮助这位惊慌失措的清教徒，她就会迷失方向。

‘Ah, you fear your prisoner should escape!’ said she. ‘Well, ask your worthy jailer what favor I this instant solicited of him.’
“啊，你担心你的囚犯会逃跑！”她说。 “好吧，问问你可敬的狱卒，我现在向他请求了什么帮助。”

‘You demanded a favor?’ said the baron, suspiciously.
“你需要帮忙吗？”男爵疑惑地说。

‘Yes, my Lord,’ replied the young man, confused.
“是的，陛下。”年轻人困惑地回答道。

‘And what favor, pray?’ asked Lord de Winter.
“请问有什么恩惠吗？”温特勋爵问道。

‘A knife, which she would return to me through the grating of the door a minute after she had received it,’ replied Felton.
“一把刀，她收到刀后一分钟就会通过门栅还给我，”费尔顿回答道。

‘There is someone, then, concealed here whose throat this amiable lady is desirous of cutting,’ said de Winter, in an ironical, contemptuous tone.
“那么，这里藏着一个人，这位和蔼可亲的女士想割断他的喉咙，”德温特用讽刺、轻蔑的语气说道。

‘There is myself,’ replied Milady.
“是我自己，”米莱迪回答道。

‘I have given you the choice between America and Tyburn,’ replied Lord de Winter. ‘Choose Tyburn, madame. Believe me, the cord is more certain than the knife.’
“我已经让你在美国和泰伯恩之间做出选择，”德温特勋爵回答道。 “选择泰伯恩，夫人。相信我，绳子比刀更可靠。”

Felton grew pale, and made a step forward, remembering that at the moment he entered Milady had a rope in her hand.
费尔顿的脸色变得苍白，向前迈了一步，想起他进来的那一刻，米莱迪手里拿着一根绳子。

‘You are right,’ said she, ‘I have often thought of it.’ Then she added in a low voice, ‘And I will think of it again.’
“你说得对，”她说，“我经常想到这一点。”然后她低声补充道，“我还会再想到这一点。”

Felton felt a shudder run to the marrow of his bones; probably Lord de Winter perceived this emotion.
费尔顿感到一阵战栗直达骨髓。也许德温特勋爵察觉到了这种情绪。

‘Mistrust yourself, John,’ said he. ‘I have placed reliance upon you, my friend. Beware! I have warned you! But be of good courage, my lad; in three days we shall be delivered from this creature, and where I shall send her she can harm nobody.’
“不要相信你自己，约翰，”他说。 “我已经信赖你了，我的朋友。谨防！我已经警告过你了！但要鼓起勇气，我的小伙子；三天后，我们就可以摆脱这个生物了，我把她送到哪里，她就不会伤害任何人。

‘You hear him!’ cried Milady, with vehemence, so that the baron might believe she was addressing heaven, and that Felton might understand she was addressing him.
“你听到他的声音了！”米莱迪激烈地喊道，这样男爵就会相信她是在向天堂说话，费尔顿也可能明白她是在向他说话。

Felton lowered his head and reflected.
费尔顿低下头沉思起来。

The baron took the young officer by the arm, and turned his head over his shoulder, so as not to lose sight of Milady till he was gone out.
男爵抓住年轻军官的手臂，将他的头转过肩膀，以免在他出去之前看不到米莱迪。

‘Well,’ said the prisoner, when the door was shut, ‘I am not so far advanced as I believed. De Winter has changed his usual stupidity into a strange prudence. It is the desire of vengeance, and how desire molds a man! As to Felton, he hesitates. Ah, he is not a man like that cursed d’Artagnan. A Puritan only adores virgins, and he adores them by clasping his hands. A Musketeer loves women, and he loves them by clasping his arms round them.’
“好吧，”门关上后，囚犯说道，“我并没有我想象的那么先进。”德温特一改平时的愚蠢，变成了一种奇怪的谨慎。这是复仇的欲望，而欲望是如何塑造一个人的！至于费尔顿，他犹豫了。啊，他不是那个被诅咒的达达尼昂那样的人。清教徒只崇拜处女，并且通过紧握双手来崇拜她们。火枪手爱女人，他会用双臂拥抱她们来爱她们。”

Milady waited, then, with much impatience, for she feared the day would pass away without her seeing Felton again. At last, in an hour after the scene we have just described, she heard someone speaking in a low voice at the door. Presently the door opened, and she perceived Felton.
米莱迪非常不耐烦地等待着，因为她担心这一天就这样过去了，她再也见不到费尔顿了。终于，在我们刚刚描述的场景发生一个小时后，她听到门口有人低声说话。不久门开了，她看见了费尔顿。

The young man advanced rapidly into the chamber, leaving the door open behind him, and making a sign to Milady to be silent; his face was much agitated.
年轻人迅速走进房间，身后的门开着，并示意米莱迪保持安静。他的脸色非常激动。

‘What do you want with me?’ said she.
“你想找我做什么？”她说。

‘Listen,’ replied Felton, in a low voice. ‘I have just sent away the sentinel that I might remain here without anybody knowing it, in order to speak to you without being overheard. The baron has just related a frightful story to me.’
“听着，”费尔顿低声回答。 “我刚刚打发了哨兵，这样我就可以在没有人知道的情况下留在这里，以便在不被人偷听的情况下与你交谈。男爵刚刚给我讲了一个可怕的故事。

Milady assumed her smile of a resigned victim, and shook her head.
米莱迪摆出一副听天由命的受害者的微笑，摇了摇头。

‘Either you are a demon,’ continued Felton, ‘or the baron—my benefactor, my father—is a monster. I have known you four days; I have loved him four years. I therefore may hesitate between you. Be not alarmed at what I say; I want to be convinced. Tonight, after twelve, I will come and see you, and you shall convince me.’
“要么你是一个恶魔，”费尔顿继续说道，“要么男爵——我的恩人，我的父亲——是一个怪物。我认识你四天了；我爱他四年了。因此我可能会在你们之间犹豫。不要对我所说的感到惊慌；我想被说服。今晚十二点后，我会来看你，你会说服我的。”

‘No, Felton, no, my brother,’ said she; ‘the sacrifice is too great, and I feel what it must cost you. No, I am lost; do not be lost with me. My death will be much more eloquent than my life, and the silence of the corpse will convince you much better than the words of the prisoner.’
“不，费尔顿，不，我的兄弟，”她说。 ‘牺牲太大了，我感觉到你必须付出什么代价。不，我迷路了；不要和我一起迷路。我的死比我的生更有说服力，尸体的沉默比囚犯的言语更能让你信服。

‘Be silent, madame,’ cried Felton, ‘and do not speak to me thus; I came to entreat you to promise me upon your honor, to swear to me by what you hold most sacred, that you will make no attempt upon your life.’
“保持安静，夫人，”费尔顿喊道，“别这样对我说话；我来恳求你以你的名誉向我保证，以你认为最神圣的东西向我发誓，你不会尝试夺走你的生命。

‘I will not promise,’ said Milady, ‘for no one has more respect for a promise or an oath than I have; and if I make a promise I must keep it.’
“我不会许诺，”米拉迪说，“因为没有人比我更尊重诺言或誓言。如果我做出承诺，我就必须遵守它。

‘Well,’ said Felton, ‘only promise till you have seen me again. If, when you have seen me again, you still persist—well, then you shall be free, and I myself will give you the weapon you desire.’
“好吧，”费尔顿说，“只保证你能再次见到我。”如果，当你再次见到我时，你仍然坚持——那么，那么你就自由了，我会给你你想要的武器。

‘Well,’ said Milady, ‘for you I will wait.’
“好吧，”米莱迪说，“我会等你。”

‘Swear.’
'发誓。'

‘I swear it, by our God. Are you satisfied?’
“我以我们的上帝发誓。你满意吗？'

‘Well,’ said Felton, ‘till tonight.’
“好吧，”费尔顿说，“直到今晚。”

And he darted out of the room, shut the door, and waited in the corridor, the soldier’s half-pike in his hand, and as if he had mounted guard in his place.
他冲出房间，关上门，在走廊里等着，手里拿着士兵的半长矛，就好像他已经在自己的位置上站岗了。

The soldier returned, and Felton gave him back his weapon.
士兵回来了，费尔顿把武器还给了他。

Then, through the grating to which she had drawn near, Milady saw the young man make a sign with delirious fervor, and depart in an apparent transport of joy.
然后，透过她走近的栅栏，米莱迪看到年轻人疯狂地做了个手势，然后带着明显的喜悦离开了。

As for her, she returned to her place with a smile of savage contempt upon her lips, and repeated, blaspheming, that terrible name of God, by whom she had just sworn without ever having learned to know Him.
至于她，她回到了自己的位置，嘴唇上挂着野蛮蔑视的微笑，并亵渎地重复着上帝那可怕的名字，她刚刚发誓，却从未学会认识上帝。

‘My God,’ said she, ‘what a senseless fanatic! My God, it is I— I—and this fellow who will help me to avenge myself.’
“天哪，”她说，“真是个愚蠢的狂热分子！”我的上帝，是我——我——和这个家伙会帮助我为自己报仇。

56 CAPTIVITY: THE FIFTH DAY
56 被囚禁：第五天

Milady had however achieved a half-triumph, and success doubled her forces.
然而米莱迪已经取得了一半的胜利，并且成功使她的力量增加了一倍。

It was not difficult to conquer, as she had hitherto done, men prompt to let themselves be seduced, and whom the gallant education of a court led quickly into her net. Milady was handsome enough not to find much resistance on the part of the flesh, and she was sufficiently skillful to prevail over all the obstacles of the mind.
征服那些急于受诱惑的男人并不困难，就像她迄今为止所做的那样，宫廷的英勇教育很快就把他们引向了她的网。米莱迪足够英俊，不会受到肉体方面的太多阻力，而且她也足够有技巧，可以克服心灵上的所有障碍。

But this time she had to contend with an unpolished nature, concentrated and insensible by force of austerity. Religion and its observances had made Felton a man inaccessible to ordinary seductions. There fermented in that sublimated brain plans so vast, projects so tumultuous, that there remained no room for any capricious or material love—that sentiment which is fed by leisure and grows with corruption. Milady had, then, made a breach by her false virtue in the opinion of a man horribly prejudiced against her, and by her beauty in the heart of a man hitherto chaste and pure. In short, she had taken the measure of motives hitherto unknown to herself, through this experiment, made upon the most rebellious subject that nature and religion could submit to her study.
但这一次，她不得不面对未经雕琢的本性，在简朴的力量下变得专注而麻木。宗教及其仪式使费尔顿成为一个无法受到普通诱惑的人。在升华的大脑中发酵着如此庞大的计划，如此混乱的计划，以至于没有任何反复无常的或物质的爱的空间——这种情感是由闲暇滋养的，随着腐败而增长。那么，米莱迪就用她虚假的美德打破了一个对她怀有极大偏见的男人的印象，也用她的美貌打破了一个迄今为止贞洁纯洁的男人的心。简而言之，通过这个实验，她对自然和宗教可以接受的最叛逆的主题进行了实验，衡量了自己迄今为止未知的动机。

Many a time, nevertheless, during the evening she despaired of fate and of herself. She did not invoke God, we very well know, but she had faith in the genius of evil—that immense sovereignty which reigns in all the details of human life, and by which, as in the Arabian fable, a single pomegranate seed is sufficient to reconstruct a ruined world.
然而，很多时候，晚上她对命运和自己感到绝望。我们很清楚，她没有祈求上帝，但她相信邪恶的天才——统治人类生活所有细节的巨大主权，正如阿拉伯寓言中那样，一粒石榴籽就足够了重建一个被毁坏的世界。

Milady, being well prepared for the reception of Felton, was able to erect her batteries for the next day. She knew she had only two days left; that when once the order was signed by Buckingham— and Buckingham would sign it the more readily from its bearing a false name, and he could not, therefore, recognize the woman in question—once this order was signed, we say, the baron would make her embark immediately, and she knew very well that women condemned to exile employ arms much less powerful in their seductions than the pretendedly virtuous woman whose beauty is lighted by the sun of the world, whose style the voice of fashion lauds, and whom a halo of aristocracy gilds with enchanting splendors. To be a woman condemned to a painful and disgraceful punishment is no impediment to beauty, but it is an obstacle to the recovery of power. Like all persons of real genius, Milady knew what suited her nature and her means. Poverty was repugnant to her; degradation took away two-thirds of her greatness. Milady was only a queen while among queens. The pleasure of satisfied pride was necessary to her domination. To command inferior beings was rather a humiliation than a pleasure for her.
米莱迪为接待费尔顿做好了充分准备，能够为第二天装好电池。她知道自己只剩下两天的时间了。一旦白金汉签署了命令——白金汉会更容易地签署它，因为它有假名，因此他无法认出有问题的女人——我们说，一旦签署了命令，男爵就会让她立即上船，她很清楚，被判处流放的妇女所使用的武器在诱惑力上远不如那些假装贤惠的女人强大，她们的美丽被世界的阳光照亮，她们的风格受到时尚之声的赞扬，她们的魅力被时尚界所称赞。贵族的光环，散发着迷人的光彩。成为一个遭受痛苦和不光彩惩罚的女人，并不妨碍美丽，但却是恢复权力的障碍。像所有真正的天才一样，米莱迪知道什么适合她的本性和她的手段。她厌恶贫穷。堕落夺去了她三分之二的伟大。米莱迪只是女王中的女王。满足自尊心的快乐对于她的统治是必要的。指挥低等生灵，对于她来说，与其说是一种乐趣，不如说是一种屈辱。

She should certainly return from her exile—she did not doubt that a single instant; but how long might this exile last? For an active, ambitious nature, like that of Milady, days not spent in climbing are inauspicious days. What word, then, can be found to describe the days which they occupy in descending? To lose a year, two years, three years, is to talk of an eternity; to return after the death or disgrace of the cardinal, perhaps; to return when d’Artagnan and his friends, happy and triumphant, should have received from the queen the reward they had well acquired by the services they had rendered her—these were devouring ideas that a woman like Milady could not endure. For the rest, the storm which raged within her doubled her strength, and she would have burst the walls of her prison if her body had been able to take for a single instant the proportions of her mind.
她当然应该从流放中回来——她一刻也没有怀疑过；但这种流亡会持续多久呢？对于像米莱迪这样积极、雄心勃勃的人来说，不进行攀登的日子是不吉利的日子。那么，可以用什么词来形容他们下降的日子呢？失去一年、两年、三年，就谈得上永恒；也许是在红衣主教去世或受辱之后返回；当达达尼昂和他的朋友们高兴而胜利地返回时，他们本应从王后那里得到他们为王后提供的服务而得到的报酬——这些令人吞噬的想法是像米莱迪这样的女人无法忍受的。除此之外，她体内肆虐的风暴使她的力量加倍，如果她的身体能够在片刻之间承受她心灵的比例，她就会冲破监狱的墙壁。

Then that which spurred her on additionally in the midst of all this was the remembrance of the cardinal. What must the mistrustful, restless, suspicious cardinal think of her silence— the cardinal, not merely her only support, her only prop, her only protector at present, but still further, the principal instrument of her future fortune and vengeance? She knew him; she knew that at her return from a fruitless journey it would be in vain to tell him of her imprisonment, in vain to enlarge upon the sufferings she had undergone. The cardinal would reply, with the sarcastic calmness of the skeptic, strong at once by power and genius, ‘You should not have allowed yourself to be taken.’
在这一切之中，更加激励她前进的是对红衣主教的怀念。多疑、焦躁、多疑的红衣主教会对她的沉默有什么看法——红衣主教不仅是她目前唯一的支持者、唯一的支柱、她唯一的保护者，而且还是她未来财富和复仇的主要工具？她认识他；她认识他。她知道，当她从一次毫无结果的旅程归来时，告诉他她被监禁的事是徒劳的，向他讲述她所遭受的痛苦也是徒劳的。红衣主教会以怀疑论者讽刺的冷静回答，同时又因权力和天才而坚强：“你不应该让自己被夺走。”

Then Milady collected all her energies, murmuring in the depths of her soul the name of Felton—the only beam of light that penetrated to her in the hell into which she had fallen; and like a serpent which folds and unfolds its rings to ascertain its strength, she enveloped Felton beforehand in the thousand meshes of her inventive imagination.
然后米莱迪集中了全部的精力，在灵魂深处低声念叨着费尔顿的名字——在她坠入的地狱里，这是唯一穿透她的光芒；就像一条蛇通过折叠和展开环来确定自己的力量一样，她事先将费尔顿笼罩在她创造性想象力的数千个网格中。

Time, however, passed away; the hours, one after another, seemed to awaken the clock as they passed, and every blow of the brass hammer resounded upon the heart of the prisoner. At nine o’clock, Lord de Winter made his customary visit, examined the window and the bars, sounded the floor and the walls, looked to the chimney and the doors, without, during this long and minute examination, he or Milady pronouncing a single word.
然而，时间已经过去了；时间一分一秒地过去，仿佛唤醒了时钟，铜锤的每一击都在囚犯的心上回响。九点钟，德温特勋爵按照惯例来访，检查了窗户和栅栏，敲响了地板和墙壁的声音，检查了烟囱和门，在这个漫长而分钟的检查过程中，他或米莱迪没有发出任何声音。一个字。

Doubtless both of them understood that the situation had become too serious to lose time in useless words and aimless wrath.
毫无疑问，他们都明白事态已经严重到不能再浪费时间在无用的言语和漫无目的的愤怒上。

‘Well,’ said the baron, on leaving her ‘you will not escape tonight!’
“好吧，”男爵离开她时说道，“今晚你是逃不掉的！”

At ten o’clock Felton came and placed the sentinel. Milady recognized his step. She was as well acquainted with it now as a mistress is with that of the lover of her heart; and yet Milady at the same time detested and despised this weak fanatic.
十点钟，费尔顿来了并安置了哨兵。米莱迪认出了他的脚步。她现在对它的熟悉程度就像情妇对她心上爱人的熟悉一样。但米莱迪同时又厌恶、鄙视这个软弱的狂热分子。

That was not the appointed hour. Felton did not enter.
那不是约定的时间。费尔顿没有进去。

Two hours after, as midnight sounded, the sentinel was relieved. This time it WAS the hour, and from this moment Milady waited with impatience. The new sentinel commenced his walk in the corridor. At the expiration of ten minutes Felton came.
两个小时后，午夜钟声响起，哨兵松了口气。这次是时候了，从这一刻起，米莱迪就焦急地等待着。新哨兵开始在走廊里行走。十分钟后，费尔顿来了。

Milady was all attention.
米莱迪全神贯注。

‘Listen,’ said the young man to the sentinel. ‘On no pretense leave the door, for you know that last night my Lord punished a soldier for having quit his post for an instant, although I, during his absence, watched in his place.’
“听着，”年轻人对哨兵说。 “不要假装离开门，因为你知道昨晚我的主惩罚了一名暂时离开岗位的士兵，尽管我在他不在的时候在他的位置上看着。”

‘Yes, I know it,’ said the soldier.
“是的，我知道，”士兵说。

‘I recommend you therefore to keep the strictest watch. For my part I am going to pay a second visit to this woman, who I fear entertains sinister intentions upon her own life, and I have received orders to watch her.’
“因此，我建议您保持最严格的监视。就我而言，我将第二次拜访这个女人，我担心她对自己的生命怀有险恶的意图，我已收到监视她的命令。

‘Good!’ murmured Milady; ‘the austere Puritan lies.’
“好！”米莱迪低声说道。 “严肃的清教徒的谎言。”

As to the soldier, he only smiled.
至于士兵，他只是微笑。

‘Zounds, Lieutenant!’ said he; ‘you are not unlucky in being charged with such commissions, particularly if my Lord has authorized you to look into her bed.’
“Zounds，中尉！”他说道。 “你被指控执行这样的任务并不不幸，特别是如果我的主人授权你检查她的床。”

Felton blushed. Under any other circumstances he would have reprimanded the soldier for indulging in such pleasantry, but his conscience murmured too loud for his mouth to dare speak.
费尔顿脸红了。如果是在其他情况下，他一定会斥责这个士兵如此逗乐，但他的良心咕哝得太厉害，他的嘴不敢说话。

‘If I call, come,’ said he. ‘If anyone comes, call me.’
“如果我打电话来，就来吧，”他说。 “如果有人来，请给我打电话。”

‘I will, Lieutenant,’ said the soldier.
“我会的，中尉，”士兵说。

Felton entered Milady’s apartment. Milady arose.
费尔顿走进了米莱迪的公寓。米莱迪站了起来。

‘You are here!’ said she.
“你在这里！”她说。

‘I promised to come,’ said Felton, ‘and I have come.’
“我答应要来，”费尔顿说，“我已经来了。”

‘You promised me something else.’
“你答应过我别的事情。”

‘What, my God!’ said the young man, who in spite of his selfcommand felt his knees tremble and the sweat start from his brow.
“什么，我的上帝！”年轻人说道，尽管他很自制，但还是感觉膝盖在颤抖，额头开始冒汗。

‘You promised to bring a knife, and to leave it with me after our interview.’
“你答应带一把刀，并在我们采访后把它留给我。”

‘Say no more of that, madame,’ said Felton. ‘There is no situation, however terrible it may be, which can authorize a creature of God to inflict death upon himself. I have reflected, and I cannot, must not be guilty of such a sin.’
“别再说了，夫人，”费尔顿说。 “无论情况多么可怕，任何情况都不能授权上帝的创造物给自己带来死亡。我已经反省了，我不能、不能犯这样的罪。”

‘Ah, you have reflected!’ said the prisoner, sitting down in her armchair, with a smile of disdain; ‘and I also have reflected.’
“啊，你已经反映了！”囚犯坐在扶手椅上说道，脸上带着轻蔑的微笑。 “我也反思过。”

‘Upon what?’
“依据什么？”

‘That I can have nothing to say to a man who does not keep his word.’
“对于一个不遵守诺言的人，我无话可说。”

‘Oh, my God!’ murmured Felton.
“哦，天啊！”费尔顿低声说道。

‘You may retire,’ said Milady. ‘I will not talk.’
“你可以退休了，”米莱迪说。 “我不会说话。”

‘Here is the knife,’ said Felton, drawing from his pocket the weapon which he had brought, according to his promise, but which he hesitated to give to his prisoner.
“这是刀，”费尔顿一边说，一边从口袋里掏出他按照承诺带来的武器，但他犹豫着是否要把它交给囚犯。

‘Let me see it,’ said Milady.
“让我看看，”米莱迪说。

‘For what purpose?’
'出于什么目的？'

‘Upon my honor, I will instantly return it to you. You shall place it on that table, and you may remain between it and me.’
“以我的名誉担保，我会立即把它还给你。你应该把它放在那张桌子上，你可以留在它和我之间。

Felton offered the weapon to Milady, who examined the temper of it attentively, and who tried the point on the tip of her finger.
费尔顿把武器递给米莱迪，米莱迪仔细地检查了武器的性能，并用指尖试了一下刀尖。

‘Well,’ said she, returning the knife to the young officer, ‘this is fine and good steel. You are a faithful friend, Felton.’
“好吧，”她说着，把刀还给了年轻军官，“这是上好的钢。”你是一位忠实的朋友，费尔顿。

Felton took back the weapon, and laid it upon the table, as he had agreed with the prisoner.
费尔顿收回了武器，并将其放在桌子上，正如他与囚犯所同意的那样。

Milady followed him with her eyes, and made a gesture of satisfaction.
米莱狄的目光追随着他，做出了满意的手势。

‘Now,’ said she, ‘listen to me.’
“现在，”她说，“听我说。”

The request was needless. The young officer stood upright before her, awaiting her words as if to devour them.
这个要求是没有必要的。年轻军官笔直地站在她面前，等待着她的话语，仿佛要将她的话吞没。

‘Felton,’ said Milady, with a solemnity full of melancholy, ‘imagine that your sister, the daughter of your father, speaks to you. While yet young, unfortunately handsome, I was dragged into a snare. I resisted. Ambushes and violences multiplied around me, but I resisted. The religion I serve, the God I adore, were blasphemed because I called upon that religion and that God, but still I resisted. Then outrages were heaped upon me, and as my soul was not subdued they wished to defile my body forever. Finally—‘
“费尔顿，”米莱迪严肃而充满忧郁地说，“想象一下，你的妹妹，你父亲的女儿，正在对你说话。年纪轻轻，可惜英俊潇洒，我就被拉进了陷阱。我反抗了。我周围的伏击和暴力事件不断增加，但我进行了抵抗。我所服务的宗教、我崇拜的上帝，因为我呼唤那个宗教和那个上帝而受到亵渎，但我仍然抵抗。然后，他们对我进行了暴行，由于我的灵魂没有被征服，所以他们想要永远玷污我的身体。最后-'

Milady stopped, and a bitter smile passed over her lips.
米莱迪停了下来，嘴角掠过一抹苦笑。

‘Finally,’ said Felton, ‘finally, what did they do?’
“最后，”费尔顿说，“最后，他们做了什么？”

‘At length, one evening my enemy resolved to paralyze the resistance he could not conquer. One evening he mixed a powerful narcotic with my water. Scarcely had I finished my repast, when I felt myself sink by degrees into a strange torpor. Although I was without mistrust, a vague fear seized me, and I tried to struggle against sleepiness. I arose. I wished to run to the window and call for help, but my legs refused their office. It appeared as if the ceiling sank upon my head and crushed me with its weight. I stretched out my arms. I tried to speak. I could only utter inarticulate sounds, and irresistible faintness came over me. I supported myself by a chair, feeling that I was about to fall, but this support was soon insufficient on account of my weak arms. I fell upon one knee, then upon both. I tried to pray, but my tongue was frozen. God doubtless neither heard nor saw me, and I sank upon the floor a prey to a slumber which resembled death.
“最终，有一天晚上，我的敌人决定瘫痪他无法征服的抵抗力量。一天晚上，他在我的水中混合了一种强力麻醉剂。我刚吃完饭，就感觉自己渐渐陷入了一种奇怪的麻木状态。虽然我并没有怀疑，但一种隐约的恐惧攫住了我，我努力与睡意作斗争。我站了起来。我想跑到窗前呼救，但我的双腿却不肯行动。天花板似乎下沉到了我的头上，并以其重量压垮了我。我伸出双臂。我试着说话。我只能发出难以言喻的声音，无法抗拒的昏厥笼罩着我。我扶着椅子，感觉自己快要摔倒了，但很快，我的手臂就变得无力了。我单膝跪下，然后双膝跪下。我试图祈祷，但我的舌头被冻住了。上帝无疑既没有听到也没有看到我，我倒在地板上，陷入了类似于死亡的沉睡。

‘Of all that passed in that sleep, or the time which glided away while it lasted, I have no remembrance. The only thing I recollect is that I awoke in bed in a round chamber, the furniture of which was sumptuous, and into which light only penetrated by an opening in the ceiling. No door gave entrance to the room. It might be called a magnificent prison.
“对于在那次睡眠中发生的一切，或者在睡眠期间流逝的时间，我不记得了。我唯一记得的是，我在一个圆形房间的床上醒来，房间里的家具非常华丽，光线只能从天花板上的一个开口透进来。没有门可以进入房间。可以称得上是一座宏伟的监狱。

‘It was a long time before I was able to make out what place I was in, or to take account of the details I describe. My mind appeared to strive in vain to shake off the heavy darkness of the sleep from which I could not rouse myself. I had vague perceptions of space traversed, of the rolling of a carriage, of a horrible dream in which my strength had become exhausted; but all this was so dark and so indistinct in my mind that these events seemed to belong to another life than mine, and yet mixed with mine in fantastic duality.
“过了很长一段时间，我才能够弄清楚自己所处的位置，或者考虑到我所描述的细节。我的头脑似乎徒劳地努力摆脱沉睡中的黑暗，我无法从睡眠中醒来。我模糊地感觉到穿越的空间，马车的滚动，以及我的力量已经耗尽的可怕的梦境。但这一切在我的脑海中是如此黑暗和模糊，以至于这些事件似乎属于我以外的另一个生活，但却以奇妙的二元性与我的生活混合在一起。

‘At times the state into which I had fallen appeared so strange that I believed myself dreaming. I arose trembling. My clothes were near me on a chair; I neither remembered having undressed myself nor going to bed. Then by degrees the reality broke upon me, full of chaste terrors. I was no longer in the house where I had dwelt. As well as I could judge by the light of the sun, the day was already two-thirds gone. It was the evening before when I had fallen asleep; my sleep, then, must have lasted twenty-four hours! What had taken place during this long sleep?
“有时我陷入的状态显得如此奇怪，以至于我相信自己在做梦。我颤抖着站起来。我的衣服放在靠近我的椅子上；我不记得自己脱过衣服，也不记得自己上床睡觉了。然后，现实逐渐向我袭来，充满了纯洁的恐惧。我已经不在原来住过的房子里了。根据太阳的光亮判断，天已经过去了三分之二。那是前一天晚上，当我睡​​着的时候。那么我的睡眠一定持续了二十四小时！在这漫长的沉睡中，究竟发生了什么？

‘I dressed myself as quickly as possible; my slow and stiff motions all attested that the effects of the narcotic were not yet entirely dissipated. The chamber was evidently furnished for the reception of a woman; and the most finished coquette could not have formed a wish, but on casting her eyes about the apartment, she would have found that wish accomplished.
“我尽快穿好衣服；我缓慢而僵硬的动作都证明麻醉药的作用还没有完全消散。房间的布置显然是为了接待一位女士而布置的。即使是最完美的风骚女郎也无法提出一个愿望，但当她环视公寓时，她会发现这个愿望已经实现了。

‘Certainly I was not the first captive that had been shut up in this splendid prison; but you may easily comprehend, Felton, that the more superb the prison, the greater was my terror.
“当然，我不是第一个被关在这座华丽监狱里的俘虏；但你很容易理解，费尔顿，监狱越高级，我的恐惧就越大。

‘Yes, it was a prison, for I tried in vain to get out of it. I sounded all the walls, in the hopes of discovering a door, but everywhere the walls returned a full and flat sound.
“是的，那是一座监狱，因为我徒劳地试图逃脱。我对所有的墙壁进行了探测，希望能找到一扇门，但到处的墙壁都发出了饱满而平淡的声音。

‘I made the tour of the room at least twenty times, in search of an outlet of some kind; but there was none. I sank exhausted with fatigue and terror into an armchair.
“我在这个房间里巡视了至少二十次，寻找某种出口；但没有。我因疲倦和恐惧而筋疲力尽地瘫倒在扶手椅上。

‘Meantime, night came on rapidly, and with night my terrors increased. I did not know but I had better remain where I was seated. It appeared that I was surrounded with unknown dangers into which I was about to fall at every instant. Although I had eaten nothing since the evening before, my fears prevented my feeling hunger.
与此同时，夜幕降临了，随着夜幕降临，我的恐惧也随之增加。我不知道，但我最好留在座位上。似乎我周围充满了未知的危险，每时每刻我都将陷入其中。尽管从前一天晚上开始我就没有吃任何东西，但我的恐惧阻止了我感到饥饿。

‘No noise from without by which I could measure the time reached me; I only supposed it must be seven or eight o’clock in the evening, for it was in the month of October and it was quite dark.
“没有任何来自外界的噪音传到我耳中，我可以通过这些噪音来测量时间；我只是猜想现在应该是晚上七八点钟了，因为当时是十月，天色已经很黑了。

‘All at once the noise of a door, turning on its hinges, made me start. A globe of fire appeared above the glazed opening of the ceiling, casting a strong light into my chamber; and I perceived with terror that a man was standing within a few paces of me.
“突然，门铰链转动的声音让我吓了一跳。天花板的玻璃开口上方出现了一个火球，将强光投射进我的房间；我惊恐地发现一个男人站在离我几步之遥的地方。

‘A table, with two covers, bearing a supper ready prepared, stood, as if by magic, in the middle of the apartment.
“公寓中央有一张桌子，有两个盖子，上面摆着准备好的晚餐，就像变魔术一样。

‘That man was he who had pursued me during a whole year, who had vowed my dishonor, and who, by the first words that issued from his mouth, gave me to understand he had accomplished it the preceding night.’
“那个人就是那个追了我整整一年的人，他发誓要羞辱我，而他从他嘴里说出的第一句话就让我知道他在前一天晚上就完成了这件事。”

‘Scoundrel!’ murmured Felton.
“恶棍！”费尔顿低声说道。

‘Oh, yes, scoundrel!’ cried Milady, seeing the interest which the young officer, whose soul seemed to hang on her lips, took in this strange recital. ‘Oh, yes, scoundrel! He believed, having triumphed over me in my sleep, that all was completed. He came, hoping that I would accept my shame, as my shame was consummated; he came to offer his fortune in exchange for my love.
“哦，是的，恶棍！”米莱迪喊道，她看到这位年轻军官对这奇怪的叙述表现出兴趣，她的灵魂似乎悬在她的嘴唇上。 ‘哦，是的，恶棍！他相信，在我睡梦中战胜了我之后，一切都完成了。他来了，希望我能接受我的耻辱，因为我的耻辱已经完成了；他来是为了用他的财产来换取我的爱。

‘All that the heart of a woman could contain of haughty contempt and disdainful words, I poured out upon this man. Doubtless he was accustomed to such reproaches, for he listened to me calm and smiling, with his arms crossed over his breast. Then, when he thought I had said all, he advanced toward me; I sprang toward the table, I seized a knife, I placed it to my breast.
“一个女人心里所能容纳的一切傲慢轻蔑和轻蔑的言语，我都倾注在这个男人身上。毫无疑问，他已经习惯了这样的责备，因为他双臂交叉在胸前，平静地微笑着听我说话。然后，当他认为我已经说完了一切时，他向我走来。我跳向桌子，抓起一把刀，放在胸前。

‘Take one step more,’ said I, ‘and in addition to my dishonor, you shall have my death to reproach yourself with.’
“再迈出一步，”我说，“除了我的耻辱之外，你还要以我的死来谴责自己。”

‘There was, no doubt, in my look, my voice, my whole person, that sincerity of gesture, of attitude, of accent, which carries conviction to the most perverse minds, for he paused.
“毫无疑问，在我的外表、我的声音、我的整个人中，我的手势、态度和口音都充满了真诚，即使是最乖僻的人也会相信，因为他停了下来。

‘‘Your death?’ said he; ‘oh, no, you are too charming a mistress to allow me to consent to lose you thus, after I have had the happiness to possess you only a single time. Adieu, my charmer; I will wait to pay you my next visit till you are in a better humor.’
“你死了吗？”他问道。 “哦，不，你是一个太迷人的情妇，在我有幸拥有你一次之后，你不允许我同意就这样失去你。再见，我的魅力者；我会等你心情好一点后再来拜访你。

‘At these words he blew a whistle; the globe of fire which lighted the room reascended and disappeared. I found myself again in complete darkness. The same noise of a door opening and shutting was repeated the instant afterward; the flaming globe descended afresh, and I was completely alone.
“说完这句话，他吹了一声口哨；照亮房间的火球重新升起并消失。我发现自己又陷入了完全的黑暗之中。紧接着，同样的开门和关门声再次响起。燃烧的地球仪再次降临，只剩下我一个人。

‘This moment was frightful; if I had any doubts as to my misfortune, these doubts had vanished in an overwhelming reality. I was in the power of a man whom I not only detested, but despised—of a man capable of anything, and who had already given me a fatal proof of what he was able to do.’
“这一刻太可怕了；如果我对自己的不幸有任何怀疑，那么这些怀疑已经在压倒性的现实中消失了。我被一个我不仅厌恶而且鄙视的人所控制——一个无所不能的人，而且他已经向我证明了他的能力。

‘But who, then was this man?’ asked Felton.
“但是这个人是谁？”费尔顿问道。

‘I passed the night on a chair, starting at the least noise, for toward midnight the lamp went out, and I was again in darkness. But the night passed away without any fresh attempt on the part of my persecutor. Day came; the table had disappeared, only I had still the knife in my hand.
“我在椅子上度过了这一夜，一听到最小的声音就开始了，因为到了午夜，灯就灭了，我又陷入了黑暗。但那个夜晚过去了，迫害我的人并没有做出任何新的尝试。天来了；桌子不见了，只有我手里还拿着刀。

‘This knife was my only hope.
“这把刀是我唯一的希望。

‘I was worn out with fatigue. Sleeplessness inflamed my eyes; I had not dared to sleep a single instant. The light of day reassured me; I went and threw myself on the bed, without parting with the emancipating knife, which I concealed under my pillow.
“我已经疲惫不堪了。失眠使我的眼睛发炎；我一刻也不敢睡觉。天亮让我安心；我走过去，倒在床上，没有放下那把解放刀，把它藏在枕头底下。

‘When I awoke, a fresh meal was served.
“当我醒来时，一顿新鲜的饭菜已经端上来了。

‘This time, in spite of my terrors, in spite of my agony, I began to feel a devouring hunger. It was forty-eight hours since I had taken any nourishment. I ate some bread and some fruit; then, remembering the narcotic mixed with the water I had drunk, I would not touch that which was placed on the table, but filled my glass at a marble fountain fixed in the wall over my dressing table.
“这一次，尽管我感到恐惧，尽管我痛苦，我还是开始感到一种吞噬一切的饥饿感。我已经四十八小时没有进食了。我吃了一些面包和一些水果；然后，想起我喝过的麻醉剂与水的混合，我不会碰放在桌子上的东西，而是在梳妆台上方墙上固定的大理石喷泉处给我的杯子倒满酒。

‘And yet, notwithstanding these precautions, I remained for some time in a terrible agitation of mind. But my fears were this time ill-founded; I passed the day without experiencing anything of the kind I dreaded.
“然而，尽管采取了这些预防措施，我在一段时间内仍然处于极度不安之中。但这一次我的担心是没有根据的。我度过了这一天，没有经历任何我害怕的事情。

‘I took the precaution to half empty the carafe, in order that my suspicions might not be noticed.
“我采取了预防措施，把玻璃瓶里的水倒了一半，以免别人注意到我的怀疑。

‘The evening came on, and with it darkness; but however profound was this darkness, my eyes began to accustom themselves to it. I saw, amid the shadows, the table sink through the floor; a quarter of an hour later it reappeared, bearing my supper. In an instant, thanks to the lamp, my chamber was once more lighted.
“傍晚来临，黑暗降临；但无论这黑暗有多深，我的眼睛都开始习惯了。我看到，在阴影中，桌子沉入了地板；一刻钟后，它又出现了，端来了我的晚餐。刹那间，多亏了灯，我的房间再次被照亮了。

‘I was determined to eat only such things as could not possibly have anything soporific introduced into them. Two eggs and some fruit composed my repast; then I drew another glass of water from my protecting fountain, and drank it.
“我决定只吃那些不可能含有催眠成分的东西。我的晚餐是两个鸡蛋和一些水果；然后我从我的保护喷泉里又打了一杯水，喝了下去。

‘At the first swallow, it appeared to me not to have the same taste as in the morning. Suspicion instantly seized me. I paused, but I had already drunk half a glass.
“第一口吞下去的时候，我觉得味道和早上不一样了。我立刻产生了怀疑。我顿了顿，但我已经喝了半杯了。

‘I threw the rest away with horror, and waited, with the dew of fear upon my brow.
“我惊恐地扔掉了剩下的东西，等待着，恐惧的露珠挂在我的额头上。

‘No doubt some invisible witness had seen me draw the water from that fountain, and had taken advantage of my confidence in it, the better to assure my ruin, so coolly resolved upon, so cruelly pursued.
“毫无疑问，有某个看不见的目击者看到我从那个喷泉里取水，并利用了我对它的信心，更好地确保了我的毁灭，如此冷静地决心，如此残酷地追求。

‘Half an hour had not passed when the same symptoms began to appear; but as I had only drunk half a glass of the water, I contended longer, and instead of falling entirely asleep, I sank into a state of drowsiness which left me a perception of what was passing around me, while depriving me of the strength either to defend myself or to fly.
“还没过半小时，同样的症状就开始出现；但由于我只喝了半杯水，所以我坚持得更久了，我并没有完全睡着，而是陷入了一种昏昏欲睡的状态，这让我对周围发生的事情产生了知觉，同时也剥夺了我的力量。保卫自己或飞行。

‘I dragged myself toward the bed, to seek the only defense I had left—my saving knife; but I could not reach the bolster. I sank on my knees, my hands clasped round one of the bedposts; then I felt that I was lost.’
“我拖着身子向床边走去，寻找我仅存的唯一防御手段——我的救命刀；但我够不到长枕。我跪下来，双手紧握一根床柱。然后我觉得我迷路了。

Felton became frightfully pale, and a convulsive tremor crept through his whole body.
费尔顿的脸色变得惨白，全身都在颤抖。

‘And what was most frightful,’ continued Milady, her voice altered, as if she still experienced the same agony as at that awful minute, ‘was that at this time I retained a consciousness of the danger that threatened me; was that my soul, if I may say so, waked in my sleeping body; was that I saw, that I heard. It is true that all was like a dream, but it was not the less frightful.
“最可怕的是，”米莱迪继续说道，她的声音变了，仿佛她仍然经历着那可怕时刻同样的痛苦，“此时我仍然意识到威胁着我的危险；如果我可以这么说的话，我的灵魂是在我沉睡的身体中醒来的吗？是我看到的，我听到的。确实，一切都像一场梦，但也同样令人恐惧。

‘I saw the lamp ascend, and leave me in darkness; then I heard the well-known creaking of the door although I had heard that door open but twice.
‘我看见灯升起，把我留在黑暗中；然后我听到了众所周知的门吱吱作响的声音，尽管我只听过那扇门打开过两次。

‘I felt instinctively that someone approached me; it is said that the doomed wretch in the deserts of America thus feels the approach of the serpent.
“我本能地感觉到有人靠近我；据说，美洲沙漠中的不幸者因此感受到了蛇的逼近。

‘I wished to make an effort; I attempted to cry out. By an incredible effort of will I even raised myself up, but only to sink down again immediately, and to fall into the arms of my persecutor.’
“我想努力；我试图哭出来。我靠着令人难以置信的意志力，甚至把自己站起来，但又立刻又沉下去，落入迫害者的怀抱。

‘Tell me who this man was!’ cried the young officer.
“告诉我这个人是谁！”年轻军官喊道。

Milady saw at a single glance all the painful feelings she inspired in Felton by dwelling on every detail of her recital; but she would not spare him a single pang. The more profoundly she wounded his heart, the more certainly he would avenge her. She continued, then, as if she had not heard his exclamation, or as if she thought the moment was not yet come to reply to it.
米莱迪一眼就看出了她因详述朗诵的每一个细节而在费尔顿身上激起的所有痛苦感受；但她不会让他感到一丝痛苦。她对他的心伤得越深，他就越有把握为她报仇。然后她继续说道，好像她没有听到他的惊呼，或者好像她认为还没有到做出回应的时候。

‘Only this time it was no longer an inert body, without feeling, that the villain had to deal with. I have told you that without being able to regain the complete exercise of my faculties, I retained the sense of my danger. I struggled, then, with all my strength, and doubtless opposed, weak as I was, a long resistance, for I heard him cry out, ‘These miserable Puritans! I knew very well that they tired out their executioners, but I did not believe them so strong against their lovers!’
‘只是这一次，恶棍要对付的不再是一具没有感觉的惰性身体。我已经告诉过你，在无法完全恢复我的能力的情况下，我仍然保留着危险的感觉。于是，我用尽全身的力量进行了挣扎，尽管我很虚弱，但毫无疑问，我进行了长时间的抵抗，因为我听到他喊道：“这些可怜的清教徒！”我很清楚他们让刽子手疲惫不堪，但我不相信他们对自己的情人如此坚强！

‘Alas! this desperate resistance could not last long. I felt my strength fail, and this time it was not my sleep that enabled the coward to prevail, but my swoon.’
'唉！这种绝望的抵抗不可能持续太久。我感到我的力气在衰退，这一次，不是我的睡眠让胆小鬼得逞了，而是我的昏迷。

Felton listened without uttering any word or sound, except an inward expression of agony. The sweat streamed down his marble forehead, and his hand, under his coat, tore his breast.
费尔顿听着，没有发出任何言语或声音，除了内心痛苦的表情。汗水顺着他大理石般的额头流下来，他的手在外套下撕扯着胸口。

‘My first impulse, on coming to myself, was to feel under my pillow for the knife I had not been able to reach; if it had not been useful for defense, it might at least serve for expiation.
“当我清醒过来时，我的第一个冲动就是在枕头底下摸索，寻找那把我没能够到的刀；如果它不能用于防御，那么它至少可以用于赎罪。

‘But on taking this knife, Felton, a terrible idea occurred to me. I have sworn to tell you all, and I will tell you all. I have promised you the truth; I will tell it, were it to destroy me.’
“但是费尔顿，当我拿起这把刀时，我突然想到了一个可怕的想法。我已经发誓要告诉你们一切，我也会告诉你们一切。我已经向你保证了真相；如果它要毁灭我，我会告诉它。

‘The idea came into your mind to avenge yourself on this man, did it not?’ cried Felton.
“你想到了要向这个人报仇，不是吗？”费尔顿喊道。

‘Yes,’ said Milady. ‘The idea was not that of a Christian, I knew; but without doubt, that eternal enemy of our souls, that lion roaring constantly around us, breathed it into my mind. In short, what shall I say to you, Felton?’ continued Milady, in the tone of a woman accusing herself of a crime. ‘This idea occurred to me, and did not leave me; it is of this homicidal thought that I now bear the punishment.’
“是的，”米莱迪说。 “我知道，这不是基督徒的想法；但毫无疑问，我们灵魂永恒的敌人，那头在我们周围不断咆哮的狮子，将它吸入了我的脑海。简而言之，我该对你说什么，费尔顿？”米莱迪继续说道，语气就像一个女人指控自己犯罪一样。 “这个想法出现在我的脑海中，并没有离开我；我现在正是因为这种杀人思想而受到惩罚。

‘Continue, continue!’ said Felton; ‘I am eager to see you attain your vengeance!’
“继续，继续！”费尔顿说道。 “我渴望看到你报仇！”

‘Oh, I resolved that it should take place as soon as possible. I had no doubt he would return the following night. During the day I had nothing to fear.
‘哦，我决定尽快进行。我毫不怀疑他第二天晚上就会回来。白天我没什么可害怕的。

‘When the hour of breakfast came, therefore, I did not hesitate to eat and drink. I had determined to make believe sup, but to eat nothing. I was forced, then, to combat the fast of the evening with the nourishment of the morning.
因此，当早餐的时间到来时，我毫不犹豫地大吃大喝。我决定假装吃晚饭，但什么也不吃。于是，我被迫用早晨的营养来对抗晚上的禁食。

‘Only I concealed a glass of water, which remained after my breakfast, thirst having been the chief of my sufferings when I remained forty-eight hours without eating or drinking.
“只是我藏了一杯早餐后剩下的水，当我四十八小时不吃不喝时，口渴一直是我最大的痛苦。

‘The day passed away without having any other influence on me than to strengthen the resolution I had formed; only I took care that my face should not betray the thoughts of my heart, for I had no doubt I was watched. Several times, even, I felt a smile on my lips. Felton, I dare not tell you at what idea I smiled; you would hold me in horror—‘
“这一天过去了，除了强化我已下定的决心之外，对我没有任何其他影响；只是我小心翼翼地不让自己的表情泄露我内心的想法，因为我毫不怀疑有人在监视我。甚至有好几次，我感觉到嘴角挂着微笑。费尔顿，我不敢告诉你我是因为什么而笑的；你会让我感到恐惧——”

‘Go on! go on!’ said Felton; ‘you see plainly that I listen, and that I am anxious to know the end.’
'继续！继续！”费尔顿说； “你清楚地看到我在听，而且我很想知道结果。”

‘Evening came; the ordinary events took place. During the darkness, as before, my supper was brought. Then the lamp was lighted, and I sat down to table. I only ate some fruit. I pretended to pour out water from the jug, but I only drank that which I had saved in my glass. The substitution was made so carefully that my spies, if I had any, could have no suspicion of it.
‘晚上来了；普通的事件发生了。在黑暗中，我的晚饭和以前一样送来了。然后灯亮了，我坐到桌边。我只吃了一些水果。我假装从壶里倒水，但我只喝了杯子里的水。替换过程非常仔细，以至于我的间谍（如果有的话）不可能对此产生怀疑。

‘After supper I exhibited the same marks of languor as on the preceding evening; but this time, as I yielded to fatigue, or as if I had become familiarized with danger, I dragged myself toward my bed, let my robe fall, and lay down.
“晚饭后，我表现出与前一天晚上相同的倦怠迹象；但这一次，当我屈服于疲劳，或者好像我已经熟悉了危险一样，我拖着自己走向床边，放下长袍，躺了下来。

‘I found my knife where I had placed it, under my pillow, and while feigning to sleep, my hand grasped the handle of it convulsively.
“我在枕头下发现了我放刀的地方，在假装睡觉的时候，我的手痉挛地抓住了刀柄。

‘Two hours passed away without anything fresh happening. Oh, my God! who could have said so the evening before? I began to fear that he would not come.
“两个小时过去了，没有发生任何新鲜事。我的天啊！前一天晚上谁会这么说呢？我开始担心他不会来。

‘At length I saw the lamp rise softly, and disappear in the depths of the ceiling; my chamber was filled with darkness and obscurity, but I made a strong effort to penetrate this darkness and obscurity.
“最后我看到灯轻轻升起，消失在天花板深处；我的房间充满了黑暗和晦涩，但我竭尽全力想要穿透这黑暗和晦涩。

‘Nearly ten minutes passed; I heard no other noise but the beating of my own heart. I implored heaven that he might come.
‘已经过去近十分钟了；除了我自己的心跳声，我没有听到任何其他声音。我祈求上天让他来。

‘At length I heard the well-known noise of the door, which opened and shut; I heard, notwithstanding the thickness of the carpet, a step which made the floor creak; I saw, notwithstanding the darkness, a shadow which approached my bed.’
“最后，我听到了众所周知的门打开和关闭的声音；尽管地毯很厚，我还是听到了脚步声，地板吱吱作响。尽管黑暗，我还是看到一个影子正在靠近我的床。

‘Haste! haste!’ said Felton; ‘do you not see that each of your words burns me like molten lead?’
‘快点！费尔顿说，快点！ “你没看到你的每一句话都像熔化的铅一样灼烧着我吗？”

‘Then,’ continued Milady, ‘then I collected all my strength; I recalled to my mind that the moment of vengeance, or rather, of justice, had struck. I looked upon myself as another Judith; I gathered myself up, my knife in my hand, and when I saw him near me, stretching out his arms to find his victim, then, with the last cry of agony and despair, I struck him in the middle of his breast.
“然后，”米莱迪继续说道，“然后我用尽全力；我想起复仇的时刻，或者更确切地说，正义的时刻已经到来。我把自己视为另一个朱迪思；我站了起来，手里拿着刀，当我看到他靠近我，伸出双臂寻找他的受害者时，随着最后一声痛苦和绝望的呼喊，我击中了他的胸部中央。

‘The miserable villain! He had foreseen all. His breast was covered with a coat-of-mail; the knife was bent against it.
‘可悲的恶棍！他已经预见到了这一切。他的胸前覆盖着一件锁子甲。刀子弯向它。

‘‘Ah, ah!’ cried he, seizing my arm, and wresting from me the weapon that had so badly served me, ‘you want to take my life, do you, my pretty Puritan? But that’s more than dislike, that’s ingratitude! Come, come, calm yourself, my sweet girl! I thought you had softened. I am not one of those tyrants who detain women by force. You don’t love me. With my usual fatuity I doubted it; now I am convinced. Tomorrow you shall be free.’
“啊，啊！”他喊道，抓住我的手臂，从我手中夺走那把对我来说如此糟糕的武器，“你想夺走我的生命，是吗，我漂亮的清教徒？但这不仅仅是不喜欢，更是忘恩负义！来吧，来吧，冷静一下，我可爱的女孩！我以为你已经软化了我不是那些武力拘留妇女的暴君之一。你不爱我。由于我一贯的愚蠢，我对此表示怀疑。现在我确信了。明天你就有空了。”

‘I had but one wish; that was that he should kill me.
“我只有一​​个愿望；那就是他应该杀了我。

‘‘Beware!’ said I, ‘for my liberty is your dishonor.’
“当心！”我说，“因为我的自由是你的耻辱。”

‘‘Explain yourself, my pretty sibyl!’
“解释一下，我漂亮的女预言家！”

‘‘Yes; for as soon as I leave this place I will tell everything. I will proclaim the violence you have used toward me. I will describe my captivity. I will denounce this place of infamy. You are placed on high, my Lord, but tremble! Above you there is the king; above the king there is God!’
''是的;因为一旦我离开这个地方，我就会告诉一切。我将宣告你对我使用的暴力。我将描述我的囚禁。我将谴责这个臭名昭著的地方。我的主啊，你被置于崇高的地位，但请颤抖！在你之上是国王；国王之上有上帝！”

‘However perfect master he was over himself, my persecutor allowed a movement of anger to escape him. I could not see the expression of his countenance, but I felt the arm tremble upon which my hand was placed.
“无论迫害我的人多么完美，他的主人还是让他的愤怒从他身上流露出来。我看不到他的表情，但我感觉到我的手放在上面的手臂在颤抖。

‘‘Then you shall not leave this place,’ said he.
“那么你就不能离开这个地方，”他说。

‘‘Very well,’ cried I, ‘then the place of my punishment will be that of my tomb. I will die here, and you will see if a phantom that accuses is not more terrible than a living being that threatens!’
“好吧，”我喊道，“那么我受罚的地方就是我的坟墓。”我会死在这里，你会看到一个指责的幽灵是否比一个威胁的活人更可怕！

‘‘You shall have no weapon left in your power.’
“你手中将没有任何武器。”

‘‘There is a weapon which despair has placed within the reach of every creature who has the courage to use it. I will allow myself to die with hunger.’
“有一种武器，绝望已将它置于每一个有勇气使用它的生物的触手可及的地方。我会让自己饿死。

‘‘Come,’ said the wretch, ‘is not peace much better than such a war as that? I will restore you to liberty this moment; I will proclaim you a piece of immaculate virtue; I will name you the Lucretia of England.’
“得了吧，”这个可怜虫说，“和平不是比这样的战争好得多吗？此刻我将让你重获自由；我将宣布你为无瑕的美德；我将命名你为英格兰的卢克丽霞。

‘‘And I will say that you are the Sextus. I will denounce you before men, as I have denounced you before God; and if it be necessary that, like Lucretia, I should sign my accusation with my blood, I will sign it.’
“我会说你是塞克斯图斯。”我要在人面前控告你们，正如我在上帝面前控告你们一样。如果有必要像卢克丽霞一样，用我的鲜血签署我的指控，我就会签署。

‘‘Ah!’ said my enemy, in a jeering tone, ‘that’s quite another thing. My faith! everything considered, you are very well off here. You shall want for nothing, and if you let yourself die of hunger that will be your own fault.’
“啊！”我的敌人用嘲笑的语气说道，“那是另一回事了。”我的信仰！综合考虑，你在这里过得很好。你将一无所有，如果你让自己饿死，那将是你自己的错。

‘At these words he retired. I heard the door open and shut, and I remained overwhelmed, less, I confess it, by my grief than by the mortification of not having avenged myself.
'听完这句话，他就退休了。我听到门打开又关上的声音，我仍然不知所措，我承认，与其说是因为我的悲伤，不如说是因为没有为自己报仇而感到羞愧。

‘He kept his word. All the day, all the next night passed away without my seeing him again. But I also kept my word with him, and I neither ate nor drank. I was, as I told him, resolved to die of hunger.
'他信守诺言。一整天，第二天一夜都过去了，我没有再见到他。但我也遵守了对他的诺言，不吃不喝。正如我告诉他的那样，我决心死于饥饿。

‘I passed the day and the night in prayer, for I hoped that God would pardon me my suicide.
“我日日夜夜都在祈祷，因为我希望上帝能原谅我的自杀。

‘The second night the door opened; I was lying on the floor, for my strength began to abandon me.
‘第二天晚上门开了；我躺在地板上，因为我的力气开始消失。

‘At the noise I raised myself up on one hand.
“听到声音，我用一只手站了起来。

‘‘Well,’ said a voice which vibrated in too terrible a manner in my ear not to be recognized, ‘well! Are we softened a little? Will we not pay for our liberty with a single promise of silence? Come, I am a good sort of a prince,’ added he, ‘and although I like not Puritans I do them justice; and it is the same with Puritanesses, when they are pretty. Come, take a little oath for me on the cross; I won’t ask anything more of you.’
“好吧，”一个声音在我耳边振动得可怕，以至于我无法辨认出来，“好吧！我们是不是软化了一点？难道我们不会因为一个沉默的承诺而为我们的自由付出代价吗？来吧，我是一位好王子，”他补充道，“虽然我不喜欢清教徒，但我还是公正地对待他们；清教徒也一样，当她们漂亮的时候。来吧，在十字架上为我起誓；我不会再问你任何事了。

‘‘On the cross,’ cried I, rising, for at that abhorred voice I had recovered all my strength, ‘on the cross I swear that no promise, no menace, no force, no torture, shall close my mouth! On the cross I swear to denounce you everywhere as a murderer, as a thief of honor, as a base coward! On the cross I swear, if I ever leave this place, to call down vengeance upon you from the whole human race!’
“在十字架上，”我站起来喊道，因为听到那令人厌恶的声音，我已经恢复了所有的力量，“在十字架上，我发誓，任何承诺、任何威胁、任何力量、任何酷刑都不能闭上我的嘴！”在十字架上，我发誓要在各处谴责你是杀人犯、名誉窃贼、卑鄙的胆小鬼！我在十字架上发誓，如果我离开这个地方，我会向全人类报仇！

‘‘Beware!’ said the voice, in a threatening accent that I had never yet heard. ‘I have an extraordinary means which I will not employ but in the last extremity to close your mouth, or at least to prevent anyone from believing a word you may utter.’
“小心！”那个声音用我从未听过的威胁口音说道。 “我有一种非凡的手段，除非在最后的绝境中，我不会使用它来封住你的嘴，或者至少阻止任何人相信你所说的任何一句话。”

‘I mustered all my strength to reply to him with a burst of laughter.
“我用尽全身力气，以一阵大笑来回应他。

‘He saw that it was a merciless war between us—a war to the death.
“他看到我们之间这是一场无情的战争——一场生死之战。

‘‘Listen!’ said he. ‘I give you the rest of tonight and all day tomorrow. Reflect: promise to be silent, and riches, consideration, even honor, shall surround you; threaten to speak, and I will condemn you to infamy.’
“听着！”他说。 “今晚剩下的时间和明天一整天我都给你。反思：答应保持沉默，财富、体贴、甚至荣誉都会围绕着你；威胁说出来，我就会判你臭名昭著。”

‘‘You?’ cried I. ‘You?’
“你？”我喊道，“你？”

‘‘To interminable, ineffaceable infamy!’
“无尽的、不可磨灭的耻辱！”

‘‘You?’ repeated I. Oh, I declare to you, Felton, I thought him mad!
“你？”我重复道。哦，我向你声明，费尔顿，我以为他疯了！

‘‘Yes, yes, I!’ replied he.
“是的，是的，我！”他回答道。

‘‘Oh, leave me!’ said I. ‘Begone, if you do not desire to see me dash my head against that wall before your eyes!’
“哦，离开我吧！”我说道，“如果你不想看到我在你眼前把头撞到墙上，那就走吧！”

‘‘Very well, it is your own doing. Till tomorrow evening, then!’
” “很好，这是你自己做的。那就到明天晚上吧！

‘‘Till tomorrow evening, then!’ replied I, allowing myself to fall, and biting the carpet with rage.’
“那么，就到明天晚上吧！”我回答道，任由自己跌倒，愤怒地咬着地毯。

Felton leaned for support upon a piece of furniture; and Milady saw, with the joy of a demon, that his strength would fail him perhaps before the end of her recital.
费尔顿靠在一件家具上寻求支撑。米莱迪带着恶魔般的喜悦看到，也许在她的朗诵结束之前，他的力量就会耗尽。

57 MEANS FOR CLASSICAL TRAGEDY
古典悲剧的 57 种手段

After a moment of silence employed by Milady in observing the young man who listened to her, Milady continued her recital.
米莱迪沉默片刻，观察听她说话的年轻人，然后继续她的朗诵。

‘It was nearly three days since I had eaten or drunk anything. I suffered frightful torments. At times there passed before me clouds which pressed my brow, which veiled my eyes; this was delirium.
“我已经快三天没有吃喝任何东西了。我遭受了可怕的折磨。有时，乌云从我面前掠过，压住我的额头，遮住我的眼睛；这是谵妄。

‘When the evening came I was so weak that every time I fainted I thanked God, for I thought I was about to die.
“到了晚上，我非常虚弱，每次晕倒时我都感谢上帝，因为我以为我快要死了。

‘In the midst of one of these swoons I heard the door open. Terror recalled me to myself.
“在一阵昏迷之中，我听到门开了。恐惧让我想起了自己。

‘He entered the apartment followed by a man in a mask. He was masked likewise; but I knew his step, I knew his voice, I knew him by that imposing bearing which hell has bestowed upon his person for the curse of humanity.
“他进入公寓，身后跟着一名戴着面具的男子。他同样戴着面具。但我认得他的脚步，我认得他的声音，我认得他的气势，这是地狱为了人类的诅咒而赋予他的。

‘‘Well,’ said he to me, ‘have you made your mind up to take the oath I requested of you?’
“那么，”他对我说，“你决定按照我的要求宣誓了吗？”

‘‘You have said Puritans have but one word. Mine you have heard, and that is to pursue you—on earth to the tribunal of men, in heaven to the tribunal of God.’
“你说过清教徒只有一个词。我的，你已经听到了，那就是追捕你——在地上到人类的法庭，在天上到上帝的法庭。

‘‘You persist, then?’
“那你坚持吗？”

‘‘I swear it before the God who hears me. I will take the whole world as a witness of your crime, and that until I have found an avenger.’
“我在垂听我的上帝面前起誓。我会让全世界见证你的罪行，直到我找到复仇者为止。”

‘‘You are a prostitute,’ said he, in a voice of thunder, ‘and you shall undergo the punishment of prostitutes! Branded in the eyes of the world you invoke, try to prove to that world that you are neither guilty nor mad!’
“你是个妓女，”他用雷鸣般的声音说道，“你将受到妓女的惩罚！”在你所唤起的世界的眼中烙上烙印，试着向那个世界证明你既没有罪，也没有疯！

‘Then, addressing the man who accompanied him, ‘Executioner,’ said he, ‘do your duty.’’
“然后，他对陪同他的人说，‘刽子手，’他说，‘履行你的职责。’”

‘Oh, his name, his name!’ cried Felton. ‘His name, tell it me!’
“哦，他的名字，他的名字！”费尔顿喊道。 “他的名字，告诉我！”

‘Then in spite of my cries, in spite of my resistance—for I began to comprehend that there was a question of something worse than death—the executioner seized me, threw me on the floor, fastened me with his bonds, and suffocated by sobs, almost without sense, invoking God, who did not listen to me, I uttered all at once a frightful cry of pain and shame. A burning fire, a red-hot iron, the iron of the executioner, was imprinted on my shoulder.’
“然后，尽管我哭喊，尽管我反抗——因为我开始明白有比死亡更糟糕的事情——刽子手抓住了我，把我扔在地板上，用绳子把我绑起来，然后用绳子将我窒息而死。我几乎毫无意义地抽泣着，祈求上帝，但他并没有听我的，我一下子发出了痛苦和羞耻的可怕叫声。熊熊燃烧的火焰，烧红的烙铁，刽子手的烙铁，烙印在我的肩膀上。

Felton uttered a groan.
费尔顿发出一声呻吟。

‘Here,’ said Milady, rising with the majesty of a queen, ‘here, Felton, behold the new martyrdom invented for a pure young girl, the victim of the brutality of a villain. Learn to know the heart of men, and henceforth make yourself less easily the instrument of their unjust vengeance.’
“在这里，”米莱迪带着女王的威严站了起来，“费尔顿，在这里，看看为一个纯洁的年轻女孩发明的新殉道方式，她是恶棍残暴的受害者。学会了解人们的内心，从此以后，你就不会轻易成为他们不公正复仇的工具。

Milady, with a rapid gesture, opened her robe, tore the cambric that covered her bosom, and red with feigned anger and simulated shame, showed the young man the ineffaceable impression which dishonored that beautiful shoulder.
米莱狄迅速地解开了长袍，撕开了遮住胸前的麻布，脸上因佯装的愤怒和假装的羞愧而涨得通红，给年轻人留下了难以磨灭的印象，羞辱了那美丽的肩膀。

‘But,’ cried Felton, ‘that is a FLEUR-DE-LIS which I see there.’
“但是，”费尔顿喊道，“我在那里看到的是百合花。”

‘And therein consisted the infamy,’ replied Milady. ‘The brand of England!—it would be necessary to prove what tribunal had imposed it on me, and I could have made a public appeal to all the tribunals of the kingdom; but the brand of France!—oh, by that, by THAT I was branded indeed!’
“这就是耻辱，”米莱迪回答道。 “英格兰的标志！——有必要证明哪个法庭把它强加给我，我可以向王国所有法庭提出公开上诉；但法国的品牌！——哦，由此可见，我确实被打上了烙印！”

This was too much for Felton.
这对费尔顿来说太过分了。

Pale, motionless, overwhelmed by this frightful revelation, dazzled by the superhuman beauty of this woman who unveiled herself before him with an immodesty which appeared to him sublime, he ended by falling on his knees before her as the early Christians did before those pure and holy martyrs whom the persecution of the emperors gave up in the circus to the sanguinary sensuality of the populace. The brand disappeared; the beauty alone remained.
他脸色苍白，一动不动，被这可怕的启示所压倒，被这个女人超人的美丽所迷惑，她以一种在他看来崇高的不谦虚的方式在他面前揭开了自己的面纱，最后他跪在她面前，就像早期的基督徒在那些纯洁而纯洁的人面前那样。神圣的殉道者，他们因皇帝的迫害而在马戏团中被抛弃，供大众血腥的肉欲之用。品牌消失了；只剩下美丽了。

‘Pardon! Pardon!’ cried Felton, ‘oh, pardon!’
'赦免！原谅！”费尔顿喊道，“噢，原谅！”

Milady read in his eyes LOVE! LOVE!
米莱迪从他的眼中读出了爱！爱！

‘Pardon for what?’ asked she.
“原谅什么？”她问。

‘Pardon me for having joined with your persecutors.’
“请原谅我加入了迫害者的行列。”

Milady held out her hand to him.
米莱迪向他伸出了手。

‘So beautiful! so young!’ cried Felton, covering that hand with his kisses.
'如此美丽！这么年轻！”费尔顿喊道，亲吻着那只手。

Milady let one of those looks fall upon him which make a slave of a king.
米莱迪的眼神落在他身上，就像国王的奴隶一样。

Felton was a Puritan; he abandoned the hand of this woman to kiss her feet.
费尔顿是一名清教徒。他放弃了这个女人的手去亲吻她的脚。

He no longer loved her; he adored her.
他不再爱她了；他不再爱她了。他很喜欢她。

When this crisis was past, when Milady appeared to have resumed her self-possession, which she had never lost; when Felton had seen her recover with the veil of chastity those treasures of love which were only concealed from him to make him desire them the more ardently, he said, ‘Ah, now! I have only one thing to ask of you; that is, the name of your true executioner. For to me there is but one; the other was an instrument, that was all.’
当这场危机过去后，当米莱迪似乎恢复了她从未失去过的冷静时；当费尔顿看到她带着贞洁的面纱收回了那些爱情的宝藏时，这些宝藏只是为了让他更加渴望而向他隐瞒的，他说：“啊，现在！”我只有一件事要问你：那就是你真正的刽子手的名字。因为对我来说只有一个；另一个是乐器，仅此而已。

‘What, brother!’ cried Milady, ‘must I name him again? Have you not yet divined who he is?’
“什么，兄弟！”米莱迪喊道，“我必须再说一遍他的名字吗？你还没猜出他是谁吗？

‘What?’ cried Felton, ‘he—again he—always he? What—the truly guilty?’
“什么？”费尔顿喊道，“他——又是他——总是他？什么——真正有罪的人？

‘The truly guilty,’ said Milady, ‘is the ravager of England, the persecutor of true believers, the base ravisher of the honor of so many women—he who, to satisfy a caprice of his corrupt heart, is about to make England shed so much blood, who protects the Protestants today and will betray them tomorrow—‘
“真正有罪的人，”米莱迪说，“是英格兰的破坏者，是真正信徒的迫害者，是众多妇女荣誉的卑鄙掠夺者——他为了满足自己腐败的心的任性，即将使英格兰成为现实。”流了这么多的血，今天保护新教徒，明天就会背叛他们——”

‘Buckingham! It is, then, Buckingham!’ cried Felton, in a high state of excitement.
'白金汉！那么，就是白金汉宫了！”费尔顿兴奋地喊道。

Milady concealed her face in her hands, as if she could not endure the shame which this name recalled to her.
米莱迪双手捂住脸，仿佛无法忍受这个名字让她想起的耻辱。

‘Buckingham, the executioner of this angelic creature!’ cried Felton. ‘And thou hast not hurled thy thunder at him, my God! And thou hast left him noble, honored, powerful, for the ruin of us all!’
“白金汉，这个天使生物的刽子手！”费尔顿喊道。 ‘我的上帝啊，你并没有向他发出雷霆！你却让他高贵、受人尊敬、强大，却毁了我们所有人！”

‘God abandons him who abandons himself,’ said Milady.
“上帝抛弃了那些放弃自己的人，”米莱迪说。

‘But he will draw upon his head the punishment reserved for the damned!’ said Felton, with increasing exultation. ‘He wills that human vengeance should precede celestial justice.’
“但他会把为受诅咒者保留的惩罚加到他头上！”费尔顿说，越来越兴奋。 “他希望人类的复仇应该先于天国的正义。”

‘Men fear him and spare him.’
“人们敬畏他并饶恕他。”

‘I,’ said Felton, ‘I do not fear him, nor will I spare him.’
“我，”费尔顿说，“我不怕他，也不会饶恕他。”

The soul of Milady was bathed in an infernal joy.
米莱迪的灵魂沐浴在地狱般的喜悦之中。

‘But how can Lord de Winter, my protector, my father,’ asked Felton, ‘possibly be mixed up with all this?’
“但是德温特勋爵，我的保护者，我的父亲，”费尔顿问道，“怎么可能与这一切混在一起呢？”

‘Listen, Felton,’ resumed Milady, ‘for by the side of base and contemptible men there are often found great and generous natures. I had an affianced husband, a man whom I loved, and who loved me—a heart like yours, Felton, a man like you. I went to him and told him all; he knew me, that man did, and did not doubt an instant. He was a nobleman, a man equal to Buckingham in every respect. He said nothing; he only girded on his sword, wrapped himself in his cloak, and went straight to Buckingham Palace.
“听着，费尔顿，”米莱迪继续说道，“因为在卑鄙可鄙的人身边，往往也有伟大而慷慨的人。我有一个已订婚的丈夫，一个我爱的男人，他也爱我——一颗像你一样的心，费尔顿，一个像你一样的男人。我去找他，把一切都告诉了他。他认识我，那个人也认识我，而且一刻也没有怀疑过。他是一位贵族，在各方面都与白金汉平等。他什么也没说；他只佩剑，裹上斗篷，直奔白金汉宫。

‘Yes, yes,’ said Felton; ‘I understand how he would act. But with such men it is not the sword that should be employed; it is the poniard.’
“是的，是的，”费尔顿说。 “我明白他会怎么做。但对于这样的人，不应该使用剑，而应该使用剑。这是匕首。”

‘Buckingham had left England the day before, sent as ambassador to Spain, to demand the hand of the Infanta for King Charles I, who was then only Prince of Wales. My affianced husband returned.
“白金汉前一天离开英国，被派往西班牙担任大使，向当时还只是威尔士亲王的查理一世国王请求公主的求婚。我的未婚夫回来了。

‘‘Hear me,’ said he; ‘this man has gone, and for the moment has consequently escaped my vengeance; but let us be united, as we were to have been, and then leave it to Lord de Winter to maintain his own honor and that of his wife.’’
“听我说，”他说； ‘这个人已经走了，暂时逃脱了我的报复；但让我们团结起来，就像我们本来应该的那样，然后让德温特勋爵来维护他自己和他妻子的荣誉。”

‘Lord de Winter!’ cried Felton.
“德温特勋爵！”费尔顿喊道。

‘Yes,’ said Milady, ‘Lord de Winter; and now you can understand it all, can you not? Buckingham remained nearly a year absent. A week before his return Lord de Winter died, leaving me his sole heir. Whence came the blow? God who knows all, knows without doubt; but as for me, I accuse nobody.’
“是的，”米莱迪说，“温特勋爵；现在你可以理解这一切了，不是吗？白金汉缺席近一年。在他回国前一周，德温特勋爵去世了，留下我作为他唯一的继承人。打击从何而来？上帝是全知的，他毫无疑问地知道；但至于我，我不会指责任何人。

‘Oh, what an abyss; what an abyss!’ cried Felton.
‘噢，多么深渊啊！多么深渊啊！”费尔顿喊道。

‘Lord de Winter died without revealing anything to his brother. The terrible secret was to be concealed till it burst, like a clap of thunder, over the head of the guilty. Your protector had seen with pain this marriage of his elder brother with a portionless girl. I was sensible that I could look for no support from a man disappointed in his hopes of an inheritance. I went to France, with a determination to remain there for the rest of my life. But all my fortune is in England. Communication being closed by the war, I was in want of everything. I was then obliged to come back again. Six days ago, I landed at Portsmouth.’
“德温特勋爵去世时没有向他的兄弟透露任何信息。这个可怕的秘密必须被隐藏起来，直到它像一声惊雷一样从罪人的头上炸开。你的保护者痛苦地目睹了他的哥哥与一个没有财产的女孩的婚姻。我很清楚，我不能向一个对继承希望感到失望的人寻求任何支持。我去了法国，并决心在那里度过我的余生。但我所有的财富都在英格兰。战争导致通讯中断，我什么都缺。然后我不得不再次回来。六天前，我降落在朴茨茅斯。

‘Well?’ said Felton.
“怎么样？”费尔顿说。

‘Well; Buckingham heard by some means, no doubt, of my return. He spoke of me to Lord de Winter, already prejudiced against me, and told him that his sister-in-law was a prostitute, a branded woman. The noble and pure voice of my husband was no longer here to defend me. Lord de Winter believed all that was told him with so much the more ease that it was his interest to believe it. He caused me to be arrested, had me conducted hither, and placed me under your guard. You know the rest. The day after tomorrow he banishes me, he transports me; the day after tomorrow he exiles me among the infamous. Oh, the train is well laid; the plot is clever. My honor will not survive it! You see, then, Felton, I can do nothing but die. Felton, give me that knife!’
'出色地;毫无疑问，白金汉通过某种方式听说了我回来的消息。他向已经对我产生偏见的德温特勋爵谈到了我，并告诉他他的嫂子是一个妓女，一个有名的女人。丈夫高贵纯净的声音不再在这里为我辩护。德温特勋爵更加轻松地相信了他所听到的一切，相信这也是他的兴趣所在。他让我被捕，把我带到这里，并把我置于你的看守之下。其余的你都知道。后天他驱逐我，他运送我；后天他就把我流放到臭名昭著的人中间。哦，火车铺设得很好；情节很巧妙。我的荣誉将无法幸存！那么你看，费尔顿，我除了死别无他法。费尔顿，把刀给我！

And at these words, as if all her strength was exhausted, Milady sank, weak and languishing, into the arms of the young officer, who, intoxicated with love, anger, and voluptuous sensations hitherto unknown, received her with transport, pressed her against his heart, all trembling at the breath from that charming mouth, bewildered by the contact with that palpitating bosom.
听到这句话，米莱迪仿佛用尽了所有的力气，虚弱无力地倒在了年轻军官的怀里，年轻军官陶醉在爱、愤怒和前所未有的肉欲中，热情地接待了她，把她压在怀里。他的心因那张迷人的嘴里的呼吸而颤抖，因与那颤动的胸膛的接触而困惑。

‘No, no,’ said he. ‘No, you shall live honored and pure; you shall live to triumph over your enemies.’
“不，不，”他说。 ‘不，你将生活得尊贵而纯洁；你将活着战胜你的敌人。

Milady put him from her slowly with her hand, while drawing him nearer with her look; but Felton, in his turn, embraced her more closely, imploring her like a divinity.
米莱迪用手慢慢地把他从身边拉开，同时用目光把他拉近。但费尔顿却更紧密地拥抱了她，像神灵一样恳求她。

‘Oh, death, death!’ said she, lowering her voice and her eyelids, ‘oh, death, rather than shame! Felton, my brother, my friend, I conjure you!’
“哦，死亡，死亡！”她压低声音，垂下眼睑，说道，“哦，死亡，而不是羞耻！”费尔顿，我的兄弟，我的朋友，我召唤你！

‘No,’ cried Felton, ‘no; you shall live and you shall be avenged.’
“不，”费尔顿喊道，“不；”你会活下来，你会被报仇的。

‘Felton, I bring misfortune to all who surround me! Felton, abandon me! Felton, let me die!’
‘费尔顿，我给我周围的人带来不幸！费尔顿，放弃我吧！费尔顿，让我死吧！

‘Well, then, we will live and die together!’ cried he, pressing his lips to those of the prisoner.
“那么，我们就一起生，一起死！”他喊道，将嘴唇贴在囚犯的嘴唇上。

Several strokes resounded on the door; this time Milady really pushed him away from her.
门上响起几声敲击声；这次米莱迪真的把他从自己身边推开了。

‘Hark,’ said she, ‘we have been overheard! Someone is coming! All is over! We are lost!’
“听着，”她说，“我们被偷听了！有人来了！一切都结束了！我们迷路了！'

‘No,’ said Felton; it is only the sentinel warning me that they are about to change the guard.’
“不，”费尔顿说。只是哨兵警告我他们即将换岗。

‘Then run to the door, and open it yourself.’
“然后跑到门口，自己开门。”

Felton obeyed; this woman was now his whole thought, his whole soul.
费尔顿服从了；这个女人现在就是他的全部思想，他的全部灵魂。

He found himself face to face with a sergeant commanding a watchpatrol.
他发现自己与一名指挥巡逻队的中士面对面。

‘Well, what is the matter?’ asked the young lieutenant.
“嗯，出了什么事？”年轻的中尉问道。

‘You told me to open the door if I heard anyone cry out,’ said the soldier; ‘but you forgot to leave me the key. I heard you cry out, without understanding what you said. I tried to open the door, but it was locked inside; then I called the sergeant.’
“你告诉我如果听到有人喊叫就开门，”士兵说。 “但是你忘了把钥匙留给我。”我听到你的哭声，但不明白你在说什么。我试图打开门，但门被锁在里面了；然后我打电话给中士。

‘And here I am,’ said the sergeant.
“我就在这里，”中士说。

Felton, quite bewildered, almost mad, stood speechless.
费尔顿很困惑，几乎要疯了，站在那里说不出话来。

Milady plainly perceived that it was now her turn to take part in the scene. She ran to the table, and seizing the knife which Felton had laid down, exclaimed, ‘And by what right will you prevent me from dying?’
米莱迪清楚地意识到，现在轮到她参与其中了。她跑到桌子旁，抓起费尔顿放下的刀，喊道：“你凭什么权利阻止我死？”

‘Great God!’ exclaimed Felton, on seeing the knife glitter in her hand.
“天啊！”费尔顿看到她手中的刀闪闪发光，惊呼道。

At that moment a burst of ironical laughter resounded through the corridor. The baron, attracted by the noise, in his chamber gown, his sword under his arm, stood in the doorway.
就在这时，走廊里响起了一阵讽刺的笑声。男爵被喧闹声吸引了，穿着礼服，腋下夹着剑，站在门口。

‘Ah,’ said he, ‘here we are, at the last act of the tragedy. You see, Felton, the drama has gone through all the phases I named; but be easy, no blood will flow.’
“啊，”他说，“我们到了，悲剧的最后一幕。你看，费尔顿，这出戏已经经历了我所说的所有阶段；但要放轻松，不会有血流出来。”

Milady perceived that all was lost unless she gave Felton an immediate and terrible proof of her courage.
米莱迪意识到，除非她立即向费尔顿提供可怕的勇气证明，否则一切都会失败。

‘You are mistaken, my Lord, blood will flow; and may that blood fall back on those who cause it to flow!’
“您错了，陛下，血会流；愿这些血流回到那些让它流淌的人身上！”

Felton uttered a cry, and rushed toward her. He was too late; Milady had stabbed herself.
费尔顿大叫一声，冲向她。他来得太晚了；米莱迪刺伤了自己。

But the knife had fortunately, we ought to say skillfully, come in contact with the steel busk, which at that period, like a cuirass, defended the chests of women. It had glided down it, tearing the robe, and had penetrated slantingly between the flesh and the ribs. Milady’s robe was not the less stained with blood in a second.
但幸运的是，我们应该巧妙地说，这把刀接触到了钢制的木箱，在那个时期，钢制的木箱就像胸甲一样，保护着女性的胸部。它顺着它滑下来，撕裂了袍子，斜着刺入了肉和肋骨之间。米莱狄的袍子上瞬间沾满了血迹。

Milady fell down, and seemed to be in a swoon.
米莱迪跌倒在地，看上去已经昏倒了。

Felton snatched away the knife.
费尔顿夺走了刀。

‘See, my Lord,’ said he, in a deep, gloomy tone, ‘here is a woman who was under my guard, and who has killed herself!’
“陛下，您看，”他用低沉、阴郁的语气说道，“有一个女人在我的看守之下，但她自杀了！”

‘Be at ease, Felton,’ said Lord de Winter. ‘She is not dead; demons do not die so easily. Be tranquil, and go wait for me in my chamber.’
“放心吧，费尔顿，”德温特勋爵说道。 ‘她没有死；恶魔不会​​那么容易死的。安静点，到我的房间里等我。”

‘But, my Lord—‘
“但是，陛下——”

‘Go, sir, I command you!’
“走吧，先生，我命令你！”

At this injunction from his superior, Felton obeyed; but in going out, he put the knife into his bosom.
费尔顿听从了上级的命令。但出门时，他却把刀放进了怀里。

As to Lord de Winter, he contented himself with calling the woman who waited on Milady, and when she was come, he recommended the prisoner, who was still fainting, to her care, and left them alone.
至于德温特勋爵，他满足于叫来服侍米莱迪的那个女人，当她来时，他建议她照顾仍在昏厥中的囚犯，然后让他们独自一人。

Meanwhile, all things considered and notwithstanding his suspicions, as the wound might be serious, he immediately sent off a mounted man to find a physician.
与此同时，考虑到一切，尽管他有所怀疑，但由于伤势可能很严重，他立即派了一名骑兵去找医生。

58 ESCAPE
58 逃脱

As Lord de Winter had thought, Milady’s wound was not dangerous. So soon as she was left alone with the woman whom the baron had summoned to her assistance she opened her eyes.
正如德温特勋爵所想，米莱迪的伤势并不危险。当她独自一人和男爵召唤来帮助她的女人在一起时，她立刻睁开了眼睛。

It was, however, necessary to affect weakness and pain—not a very difficult task for so finished an actress as Milady. Thus the poor woman was completely the dupe of the prisoner, whom, notwithstanding her hints, she persisted in watching all night.
然而，影响虚弱和疼痛是必要的——对于像米莱迪这样的女演员来说，这并不是一项非常困难的任务。因此，这个可怜的女人完全被那个囚犯欺骗了，尽管她有暗示，她还是坚持看守了整个晚上。

But the presence of this woman did not prevent Milady from thinking.
但这个女人的存在并没有阻止米莱迪的思考。

There was no longer a doubt that Felton was convinced; Felton was hers. If an angel appeared to that young man as an accuser of Milady, he would take him, in the mental disposition in which he now found himself, for a messenger sent by the devil.
毫无疑问，费尔顿已经被说服了。费尔顿是她的。如果一个天使以米拉迪的控告者的身份出现在那个年轻人面前，他就会以他现在的心理倾向，把他当作魔鬼派来的使者。

Milady smiled at this thought, for Felton was now her only hope— her only means of safety.
米莱迪想到这里笑了，因为费尔顿现在是她唯一的希望——她唯一的安全手段。

But Lord de Winter might suspect him; Felton himself might now be watched!
但德温特勋爵可能会怀疑他；费尔顿本人现在可能会受到监视！

Toward four o’clock in the morning the doctor arrived; but since the time Milady stabbed herself, however short, the wound had closed. The doctor could therefore measure neither the direction nor the depth of it; he only satisfied himself by Milady’s pulse that the case was not serious.
凌晨四点左右，医生来了。但自从米莱迪刺伤自己之后，无论时间有多短，伤口都已经愈合了。因此，医生既无法测量它的方向，也无法测量它的深度。他只是通过米莱迪的脉搏才确信情况并不严重。

In the morning Milady, under the pretext that she had not slept well in the night and wanted rest, sent away the woman who attended her.
早上，米拉迪借口晚上没睡好，想休息，打发走了侍候她的女人。

She had one hope, which was that Felton would appear at the breakfast hour; but Felton did not come.
她只有一个希望，那就是费尔顿会在早餐时间出现。但费尔顿没有来。

Were her fears realized? Was Felton, suspected by the baron, about to fail her at the decisive moment? She had only one day left. Lord de Winter had announced her embarkation for the twenty-third, and it was now the morning of the twenty-second.
她的恐惧成真了吗？被男爵怀疑的费尔顿难道要在关键时刻让她失望吗？她只剩下一天的时间了。德温特勋爵已经宣布二十三号启程了，现在已经是二十二号早上了。

Nevertheless she still waited patiently till the hour for dinner.
尽管如此，她还是耐心地等到了晚饭时间。

Although she had eaten nothing in the morning, the dinner was brought in at its usual time. Milady then perceived, with terror, that the uniform of the soldiers who guarded her was changed.
虽然早上她什么都没吃，但晚饭还是按照平常的时间送来的。米莱迪惊恐地发现看守她的士兵的制服已经换了。

Then she ventured to ask what had become of Felton.
然后她大胆地问费尔顿怎么样了。

She was told that he had left the castle an hour before on horseback. She inquired if the baron was still at the castle. The soldier replied that he was, and that he had given orders to be informed if the prisoner wished to speak to him.
她被告知他一小时前骑马离开了城堡。她询问男爵是否还在城堡里。士兵回答说他是，并且他已下令如果囚犯想和他说话就通知他。

Milady replied that she was too weak at present, and that her only desire was to be left alone.
米莱迪回答说，她现在太虚弱了，她唯一的愿望就是一个人呆着。

The soldier went out, leaving the dinner served.
士兵出去了，留下了晚餐。

Felton was sent away. The marines were removed. Felton was then mistrusted.
费尔顿被送走了。海军陆战队被撤走。费尔顿随后受到了不信任。

This was the last blow to the prisoner.
这是对囚犯的最后一击。

Left alone, she arose. The bed, which she had kept from prudence and that they might believe her seriously wounded, burned her like a bed of fire. She cast a glance at the door; the baron had had a plank nailed over the grating. He no doubt feared that by this opening she might still by some diabolical means corrupt her guards.
只剩下她一个人，她站了起来。她出于谨慎而保留了这张床，以免他们相信她受了重伤，但这张床像一张火床一样烧伤了她。她朝门口看了一眼；男爵在栅栏上钉了一块木板。毫无疑问，他担心通过这个机会，她可能仍然会通过某种邪恶的手段腐蚀她的守卫。

Milady smiled with joy. She was free now to give way to her transports without being observed. She traversed her chamber with the excitement of a furious maniac or of a tigress shut up in an iron cage. CERTES, if the knife had been left in her power, she would now have thought, not of killing herself, but of killing the baron.
米莱迪高兴地笑了。现在她可以自由地让路给她的运输工具而不被观察到。她带着狂怒的疯子或关在铁笼子里的母老虎般的兴奋穿过她的房间。塞特斯，如果这把刀留在她手里，她现在想的不是自杀，而是杀死男爵。

At six o’clock Lord de Winter came in. He was armed at all points. This man, in whom Milady till that time had only seen a very simple gentleman, had become an admirable jailer. He appeared to foresee all, to divine all, to anticipate all.
六点钟，德温特勋爵进来了。他全副武装。米莱迪以前只在他身上看到过一个非常朴素的绅士，现在却成了一个令人敬佩的狱卒。他似乎预见到了一切，预见到了一切，预见到了一切。

A single look at Milady apprised him of all that was passing in her mind.
只要看了米莱迪一眼，他就知道了她脑子里正在想的一切。

‘Ay!’ said he, ‘I see; but you shall not kill me today. You have no longer a weapon; and besides, I am on my guard. You had begun to pervert my poor Felton. He was yielding to your infernal influence; but I will save him. He will never see you again; all is over. Get your clothes together. Tomorrow you will go. I had fixed the embarkation for the twenty-fourth; but I have reflected that the more promptly the affair takes place the more sure it will be. Tomorrow, by twelve o’clock, I shall have the order for your exile, signed, BUCKINGHAM. If you speak a single word to anyone before going aboard ship, my sergeant will blow your brains out. He has orders to do so. If when on the ship you speak a single word to anyone before the captain permits you, the captain will have you thrown into the sea. That is agreed upon.
“啊！”他说，“我明白了；但今天你不能杀我。你不再拥有武器；此外，我很警惕。你已经开始扭曲我可怜的费尔顿了。他屈服于你的邪恶影响；但我会救他。他再也见不到你了；一切都结束了。把你的衣服放在一起。明天你就走。我已定好二十四号的登船时间；但我已经反思过，事情发生得越快，事情就越确定。明天十二点之前，我将收到签署的流放令，白金汉。如果你在上船前对任何人说一句话，我的中士就会打爆你的脑袋。他奉命这样做。在船上，如果你在船长允许之前对任何人说一句话，船长就会把你扔进海里。这是一致同意的。

‘AU REVOIR; then; that is all I have to say today. Tomorrow I will see you again, to take my leave.’ With these words the baron went out. Milady had listened to all this menacing tirade with a smile of disdain on her lips, but rage in her heart.
‘再见；然后;这就是我今天要说的全部内容。明天我再来看你，就告辞了。”说完，男爵就出去了。米莱迪听着这些威胁性的长篇大论，嘴角挂着轻蔑的微笑，心里却充满愤怒。

Supper was served. Milady felt that she stood in need of all her strength. She did not know what might take place during this night which approached so menacingly—for large masses of cloud rolled over the face of the sky, and distant lightning announced a storm.
晚饭已经上桌了。米莱迪觉得她需要全力以赴。她不知道在这个如此危险的夜晚会发生什么——因为大片云彩在天空中翻滚，远处的闪电预示着一场暴风雨。

The storm broke about ten o’clock. Milady felt a consolation in seeing nature partake of the disorder of her heart. The thunder growled in the air like the passion and anger in her thoughts. It appeared to her that the blast as it swept along disheveled her brow, as it bowed the branches of the trees and bore away their leaves. She howled as the hurricane howled; and her voice was lost in the great voice of nature, which also seemed to groan with despair.
暴风雨大约在十点钟左右爆发。米莱迪看到大自然也分担了她内心的混乱，这让她感到一种安慰。雷霆在空中咆哮，就像她思想中的激情和愤怒一样。在她看来，爆炸席卷而来，让她的额头凌乱，树枝压弯，树叶也被卷走。她随着飓风的呼啸而嚎叫；她的声音消失在大自然伟大的声音中，大自然似乎也绝望地呻吟着。

All at once she heard a tap at her window, and by the help of a flash of lightning she saw the face of a man appear behind the bars.
突然，她听到敲窗户的声音，借助一道闪电，她看到一张男人的脸出现在铁栅栏后面。

She ran to the window and opened it.
她跑到窗前，打开了窗户。

‘Felton!’ cried she. ‘I am saved.’
“费尔顿！”她喊道。 “我得救了。”

‘Yes,’ said Felton; ‘but silence, silence! I must have time to file through these bars. Only take care that I am not seen through the wicket.’
“是的，”费尔顿说。 ‘但是沉默，沉默！我必须有时间浏览这些酒吧。只要注意不要从检票口看到我就可以了。

‘Oh, it is a proof that the Lord is on our side, Felton,’ replied Milady. ‘They have closed up the grating with a board.’
“哦，这证明上帝站在我们这一边，费尔顿，”米莱迪回答道。 “他们用一块木板把栅栏封闭起来。”

‘That is well; God has made them senseless,’ said Felton.
‘那就好；上帝让他们变得毫无知觉，”费尔顿说。

‘But what must I do?’ asked Milady.
“但是我该怎么办呢？”米莱迪问道。

‘Nothing, nothing, only shut the window. Go to bed, or at least lie down in your clothes. As soon as I have done I will knock on one of the panes of glass. But will you be able to follow me?’
“没什么，没什么，只是关上窗户。”上床睡觉，或者至少穿着衣服躺下。一旦完成，我就会敲击其中一块玻璃。但你能跟着我吗？

‘Oh, yes!’
'哦是的！'

‘Your wound?’
“你的伤口？”

‘Gives me pain, but will not prevent my walking.’
“让我感到疼痛，但不会妨碍我行走。”

‘Be ready, then, at the first signal.’
“那么，在第一个信号出现时做好准备。”

Milady shut the window, extinguished the lamp, and went, as Felton had desired her, to lie down on the bed. Amid the moaning of the storm she heard the grinding of the file upon the bars, and by the light of every flash she perceived the shadow of Felton through the panes.
米莱迪关上窗户，熄灭灯，然后按照费尔顿的要求，躺在床上。在暴风雨的呻吟声中，她听到锉刀敲击栏杆的摩擦声，借着每一次闪光，她透过窗玻璃看到费尔顿的影子。

She passed an hour without breathing, panting, with a cold sweat upon her brow, and her heart oppressed by frightful agony at every movement she heard in the corridor.
她气喘吁吁、没有呼吸地度过了一个小时，额头上冒着冷汗，走廊里听到的每一个动静都让她的心感到可怕的痛苦。

There are hours which last a year.
有些时间可以持续一年。

At the expiration of an hour, Felton tapped again.
一小时后，费尔顿再次敲击。

Milady sprang out of bed and opened the window. Two bars removed formed an opening for a man to pass through.
米莱迪从床上跳起来，打开窗户。拆除的两根栅栏形成了一个供人通过的开口。

‘Are you ready?’ asked Felton.
“你准备好了吗？”费尔顿问道。

‘Yes. Must I take anything with me?’
'是的。我必须带什么东西吗？

‘Money, if you have any.’
“钱，如果你有的话。”

‘Yes; fortunately they have left me all I had.’
'是的;幸运的是，他们给我留下了我所拥有的一切。

‘So much the better, for I have expended all mine in chartering a vessel.’
“那就更好了，因为我已经花光了我所有的钱来租一艘船。”

‘Here!’ said Milady, placing a bag full of louis in Felton’s hands.
“给你！”米莱迪说着，把一袋路易放在费尔顿手里。

Felton took the bag and threw it to the foot of the wall.
费尔顿接过袋子，把它扔到了墙脚下。

‘Now,’ said he, ‘will you come?’
“现在，”他说，“你愿意来吗？”

‘I am ready.’
'我已经准备好了。'

Milady mounted upon a chair and passed the upper part of her body through the window. She saw the young officer suspended over the abyss by a ladder of ropes. For the first time an emotion of terror reminded her that she was a woman.
米莱迪坐到椅子上，将上半身从窗户里探了出来。她看到年轻的军官被绳梯悬在深渊上。第一次，一种恐惧的情绪提醒她自己是个女人。

The dark space frightened her.
黑暗的空间让她感到害怕。

‘I expected this,’ said Felton.
“我预料到了这一点，”费尔顿说。

‘It’s nothing, it’s nothing!’ said Milady. ‘I will descend with my eyes shut.’
“没什么，没什么！”米莱迪说。 “我会闭着眼睛下降。”

‘Have you confidence in me?’ said Felton.
“你对我有信心吗？”费尔顿说。

‘You ask that?’
“你问这个？”

‘Put your two hands together. Cross them; that’s right!’
‘把你的两只手放在一起。越过它们；这是正确的！'

Felton tied her two wrists together with his handkerchief, and then with a cord over the handkerchief.
费尔顿用手帕将她的两只手腕绑在一起，然后在手帕上用绳子绑起来。

‘What are you doing?’ asked Milady, with surprise.
“你在做什么？”米莱迪惊讶地问道。

‘Pass your arms around my neck, and fear nothing.’
“用你的手臂搂住我的脖子，不要害怕。”

‘But I shall make you lose your balance, and we shall both be dashed to pieces.’
“但我会让你失去平衡，我们都会粉身碎骨。”

‘Don’t be afraid. I am a sailor.’
‘别害怕。我是一名水手。

Not a second was to be lost. Milady passed her two arms round Felton’s neck, and let herself slip out of the window. Felton began to descend the ladder slowly, step by step. Despite the weight of two bodies, the blast of the hurricane shook them in the air.
一刻也不能耽误。米莱迪用两只手臂搂住费尔顿的脖子，然后溜出了窗外。费尔顿开始一步一步慢慢地走下梯子。尽管有两具尸体的重量，飓风的冲击却将他们在空中摇晃起来。

All at once Felton stopped.
费尔顿突然停了下来。

‘What is the matter?’ asked Milady.
“怎么了？”米莱迪问道。

‘Silence,’ said Felton, ‘I hear footsteps.’
“安静，”费尔顿说，“我听到脚步声。”

‘We are discovered!’
“我们被发现了！”

There was a silence of several seconds.
现场沉默了几秒。

‘No,’ said Felton, ‘it is nothing.’
“不，”费尔顿说，“没什么。”

‘But what, then, is the noise?’
“那么，噪音是什么？”

‘That of the patrol going their rounds.’
“巡逻队巡逻的时候的事。”

‘Where is their road?’
“他们的路在哪里？”

‘Just under us.’
“就在我们下面。”

‘They will discover us!’
“他们会发现我们的！”

‘No, if it does not lighten.’
“不，如果它不亮的话。”

‘But they will run against the bottom of the ladder.’
“但他们会撞到梯子的底部。”

‘Fortunately it is too short by six feet.’
“幸运的是，它太短了六英尺。”

‘Here they are! My God!’
'他们来了！我的上帝！'

‘Silence!’
'安静！'

Both remained suspended, motionless and breathless, within twenty paces of the ground, while the patrol passed beneath them laughing and talking. This was a terrible moment for the fugitives.
两人都悬在空中，一动不动，气喘吁吁，距离地面不到二十步，而巡逻队则有说有笑地从他们下面经过。对于逃亡者来说，这是一个可怕的时刻。

The patrol passed. The noise of their retreating footsteps and the murmur of their voices soon died away.
巡逻队过去了。他们远去的脚步声和低语声很快就消失了。

‘Now,’ said Felton, ‘we are safe.’
“现在，”费尔顿说，“我们安全了。”

Milady breathed a deep sigh and fainted.
米莱迪深深地叹了口气，昏了过去。

Felton continued to descend. Near the bottom of the ladder, when he found no more support for his feet, he clung with his hands; at length, arrived at the last step, he let himself hang by the strength of his wrists, and touched the ground. He stooped down, picked up the bag of money, and placed it between his teeth. Then he took Milady in his arms, and set off briskly in the direction opposite to that which the patrol had taken. He soon left the pathway of the patrol, descended across the rocks, and when arrived on the edge of the sea, whistled.
费尔顿继续下降。快到梯子底部时，他发现自己的脚不再有支撑，他就用双手紧紧抓住。终于，到了最后一步，他凭借手腕的力量，让自己悬空，接触到了地面。他弯下腰​​，拿起那袋钱，放进牙缝里。然后他抱起米莱迪，快步朝与巡逻队相反的方向走去。很快他就离开了巡逻队的路线，沿着岩石下降，到达海边时，吹起了口哨。

A similar signal replied to him; and five minutes after, a boat appeared, rowed by four men.
类似的信号也回应了他。五分钟后，一艘由四个人划着的船出现了。

The boat approached as near as it could to the shore; but there was not depth enough of water for it to touch land. Felton walked into the sea up to his middle, being unwilling to trust his precious burden to anybody.
船尽可能靠近岸边。但水深不够，无法接触陆地。费尔顿走进了深至身体中部的大海，不愿意将他宝贵的负担托付给任何人。

Fortunately the storm began to subside, but still the sea was disturbed. The little boat bounded over the waves like a nutshell.
幸运的是，风暴开始平息，但大海仍然受到干扰。小船像果壳一样在波浪上跳跃。

‘To the sloop,’ said Felton, ‘and row quickly.’
“到单桅帆船上，”费尔顿说，“快点划吧。”

The four men bent to their oars, but the sea was too high to let them get much hold of it.
四个人弯腰划桨，但海浪太高，他们抓不住桨。

However, they left the castle behind; that was the principal thing. The night was extremely dark. It was almost impossible to see the shore from the boat; they would therefore be less likely to see the boat from the shore.
然而，他们却把城堡抛在了身后。这是最重要的事情。夜色极其漆黑。从船上几乎看不到岸边。因此，他们不太可能从岸上看到这艘船。

A black point floated on the sea. That was the sloop. While the boat was advancing with all the speed its four rowers could give it, Felton untied the cord and then the handkerchief which bound Milady’s hands together. When her hands were loosed he took some sea water and sprinkled it over her face.
海面上漂浮着一个黑点。那是单桅帆船。当船以四个桨手所能达到的最大速度前进时，费尔顿解开了绳子，然后解开了将米莱迪的双手绑在一起的手帕。当她的手松开时，他拿了一些海水，洒在她的脸上。

Milady breathed a sigh, and opened her eyes.
米莱迪叹了口气，睁开了眼睛。

‘Where am I?’ said she.
“我在哪儿？”她说。

‘Saved!’ replied the young officer.
“得救了！”年轻军官回答道。

‘Oh, saved, saved!’ cried she. ‘Yes, there is the sky; here is the sea! The air I breathe is the air of liberty! Ah, thanks, Felton, thanks!’
“哦，得救了，得救了！”她喊道。 ‘是的，有天空；这里是海！我呼吸的空气是自由的空气！啊，谢谢，费尔顿，谢谢！

The young man pressed her to his heart.
年轻人将她按在了心口。

‘But what is the matter with my hands!’ asked Milady; ‘it seems as if my wrists had been crushed in a vice.’
“可是我的手怎么了？”米莱迪问道。 “我的手腕好像被虎钳压碎了。”

Milady held out her arms; her wrists were bruised.
米莱迪伸出双臂；她的手腕被擦伤了。

‘Alas!’ said Felton, looking at those beautiful hands, and shaking his head sorrowfully.
“唉！”费尔顿看着那双美丽的双手，悲伤地摇着头。

‘Oh, it’s nothing, nothing!’ cried Milady. ‘I remember now.’
“哦，没什么，没什么！”米莱迪喊道。 '我想起来了。'

Milady looked around her, as if in search of something.
米莱迪环顾四周，似乎在寻找什么。

‘It is there,’ said Felton, touching the bag of money with his foot.
“它就在那儿，”费尔顿一边说，一边用脚触碰那袋钱。

They drew near to the sloop. A sailor on watch hailed the boat; the boat replied.
他们靠近单桅帆船。值班的水手向船招呼。小船回答道。

‘What vessel is that?’ asked Milady.
“那是什么船？”米莱迪问道。

‘The one I have hired for you.’
“是我为你雇的。”

‘Where will it take me?’
“它会带我去哪里？”

‘Where you please, after you have put me on shore at Portsmouth.’
“在你把我送到朴茨茅斯的岸上之后，随你便。”

‘What are you going to do at Portsmouth?’ asked Milady.
“你要去朴茨茅斯做什么？”米莱迪问。

‘Accomplish the orders of Lord de Winter,’ said Felton, with a gloomy smile.
“执行德温特勋爵的命令。”费尔顿阴郁地微笑着说道。

‘What orders?’ asked Milady.
“什么命令？”米莱迪问。

‘You do not understand?’ asked Felton.
“你不明白吗？”费尔顿问道。

‘No; explain yourself, I beg.’
'不;请解释一下。”

‘As he mistrusted me, he determined to guard you himself, and sent me in his place to get Buckingham to sign the order for your transportation.’
“因为他不信任我，所以他决定亲自看守你，并派我代替他去让白金汉签署你的运输命令。”

‘But if he mistrusted you, how could he confide such an order to you?’
“但如果他不信任你，他怎么可能向你下达这样的命令呢？”

‘How could I know what I was the bearer of?’
“我怎么知道我携带的是什么？”

‘That’s true! And you are going to Portsmouth?’
'这是真的！你要去朴茨茅斯吗？

‘I have no time to lose. Tomorrow is the twenty-third, and Buckingham sets sail tomorrow with his fleet.’
“我没有时间可以浪费了。明天是二十三号，白金汉明天将带着他的舰队启航。”

‘He sets sail tomorrow! Where for?’
“他明天起航！去哪儿？

‘For La Rochelle.’
“为了拉罗谢尔。”

‘He need not sail!’ cried Milady, forgetting her usual presence of mind.
“他不需要航行！”米莱迪喊道，忘记了她平时的冷静。

‘Be satisfied,’ replied Felton; ‘he will not sail.’
“满意吧，”费尔顿回答道。 “他不会航行。”

Milady started with joy. She could read to the depths of the heart of this young man; the death of Buckingham was written there at full length.
米莱迪高兴地开始说。她能读懂这个年轻人的内心深处；白金汉之死的全文都写在那里。

‘Felton,’ cried she, ‘you are as great as Judas Maccabeus! If you die, I will die with you; that is all I can say to you.’
“费尔顿，”她喊道，“你和犹大·马卡比一样伟大！”你若死，我便与你同死；这就是我能对你说的一切。

‘Silence!’ cried Felton; ‘we are here.’
“安静！”费尔顿喊道。 '我们在这儿。'

In fact, they touched the sloop.
事实上，他们触碰了单桅帆船。

Felton mounted the ladder first, and gave his hand to Milady, while the sailors supported her, for the sea was still much agitated.
费尔顿先爬上梯子，把手伸给米莱迪，水手们则搀扶着她，因为大海仍然波涛汹涌。

An instant after they were on the deck.
他们到达甲板后不久。

‘Captain,’ said Felton, ‘this is person of whom I spoke to you, and whom you must convey safe and sound to France.’
“队长，”费尔顿说，“这就是我跟你说过的人，你必须把他安然无恙地送回法国。”

‘For a thousand pistoles,’ said the captain.
“一千皮斯托尔，”船长说。

‘I have paid you five hundred of them.’
“我已经付给你五百块了。”

‘That’s correct,’ said the captain.
“没错，”船长说。

‘And here are the other five hundred,’ replied Milady, placing her hand upon the bag of gold.
“这是另外五百块，”米莱迪把手放在金袋上回答道。

‘No,’ said the captain, ‘I make but one bargain; and I have agreed with this young man that the other five hundred shall not be due to me till we arrive at Boulogne.’
“不，”船长说，“我只做一笔交易；我同意这个年轻人的看法，在我们到达布洛涅之前，剩下的五百块钱不会归我所有。

‘And shall we arrive there?’
“我们能到达那里吗？”

‘Safe and sound, as true as my name’s Jack Butler.’
“平安无事，就像我的名字叫杰克·巴特勒一样真实。”

‘Well,’ said Milady, ‘if you keep your word, instead of five hundred, I will give you a thousand pistoles.’
“好吧，”米拉迪说，“如果你信守诺言，我就不给你五百皮斯托，而是给你一千皮斯托。”

‘Hurrah for you, then, my beautiful lady,’ cried the captain; ‘and may God often send me such passengers as your Ladyship!’
“那么，为你万岁，我美丽的女士，”船长喊道。 “愿上帝经常给我送来像您夫人这样的乘客！”

‘Meanwhile,’ said Felton, ‘convey me to the little bay of—; you know it was agreed you should put in there.’
“同时，”费尔顿说，“带我去——的小海湾；你知道大家都同意你应该把它放在那里。

The captain replied by ordering the necessary maneuvers, and toward seven o’clock in the morning the little vessel cast anchor in the bay that had been named.
船长回答说，下令进行必要的演习，早上七点左右，这艘小船在指定的海湾抛锚。

During this passage, Felton related everything to Milady—how, instead of going to London, he had chartered the little vessel; how he had returned; how he had scaled the wall by fastening cramps in the interstices of the stones, as he ascended, to give him foothold; and how, when he had reached the bars, he fastened his ladder. Milady knew the rest.
在这段话中，费尔顿向米莱迪讲述了一切——他如何租用了这艘小船，而不是去伦敦；他是怎么回来的？当他向上攀登时，他是如何通过在石头的缝隙中固定痉挛来攀爬墙壁的，以便给他立足点；当他到达栅栏时，他如何系紧梯子。米莱迪知道其余的事情。

On her side, Milady tried to encourage Felton in his project; but at the first words which issued from her mouth, she plainly saw that the young fanatic stood more in need of being moderated than urged.
米莱迪则试图鼓励费尔顿的项目。但当她说出第一句话时，她清楚地看出这位年轻的狂热分子更需要的是缓和而不是敦促。

It was agreed that Milady should wait for Felton till ten o’clock; if he did not return by ten o’clock she was to sail.
大家商定，米莱迪要等费尔顿到十点。如果他十点前还没有回来，她就要启航。

In that case, and supposing he was at liberty, he was to rejoin her in France, at the convent of the Carmelites at Bethune.
在这种情况下，假设他有自由，他将在法国白求恩的加尔默罗修道院与她会合。

59 WHAT TOOK PLACE AT PORTSMOUTH AUGUST 23, 1628
59 1628 年 8 月 23 日朴次茅斯发生的事情

Felton took leave of Milady as a brother about to go for a mere walk takes leave of his sister, kissing her hand.
费尔顿告别米莱迪，就像一个正要散步的兄弟亲吻她的手告别他的妹妹一样。

His whole body appeared in its ordinary state of calmness, only an unusual fire beamed from his eyes, like the effects of a fever; his brow was more pale than it generally was; his teeth were clenched, and his speech had a short dry accent which indicated that something dark was at work within him.
他的全身呈现出平常的平静状态，只是眼眸中闪烁着异乎寻常的火光，就像是发烧了一样。他的眉毛比平常更苍白。他咬紧牙关，说话时带着短促、干巴巴的口音，这表明他内心有某种阴暗的东西在起作用。

As long as he remained in the boat which conveyed him to land, he kept his face toward Milady, who, standing on the deck, followed him with her eyes. Both were free from the fear of pursuit; nobody ever came into Milady’s apartment before nine o’clock, and it would require three hours to go from the castle to London.
只要他留在送他上岸的船上，他就一直把脸朝向米莱迪，而米莱迪站在甲板上，目光追随着他。两人都没有被追赶的恐惧。九点之前从来没有人进入过米莱迪的公寓，从城堡到伦敦需要三个小时。

Felton jumped onshore, climbed the little ascent which led to the top of the cliff, saluted Milady a last time, and took his course toward the city.
费尔顿跳上岸，爬上通往悬崖顶的小斜坡，向米莱迪最后一次敬礼，然后朝城市走去。

At the end of a hundred paces, the ground began to decline, and he could only see the mast of the sloop.
走到一百步的尽头，地面开始下降，他只能看到单桅帆船的桅杆。

He immediately ran in the direction of Portsmouth, which he saw at nearly half a league before him, standing out in the haze of the morning, with its houses and towers.
他立即朝朴茨茅斯的方向跑去，他看到朴茨茅斯就在他面前近半里格的地方，矗立在早晨的薄雾中，那里有房屋和塔楼。

Beyond Portsmouth the sea was covered with vessels whose masts, like a forest of poplars despoiled by the winter, bent with each breath of the wind.
朴次茅斯以外的大海上布满了船只，它们的桅杆就像被冬天破坏的白杨树林一样，随着风的每一次呼吸而弯曲。

Felton, in his rapid walk, reviewed in his mind all the accusations against the favorite of James I and Charles I, furnished by two years of premature meditation and a long sojourn among the Puritans.
费尔顿在快速行走中，在脑海中回顾了对詹姆斯​​一世和查理一世的宠儿的所有指控，这些指控是由两年过早的沉思和在清教徒中的长期逗留所提供的。

When he compared the public crimes of this minister—startling crimes, European crimes, if so we may say—with the private and unknown crimes with which Milady had charged him, Felton found that the more culpable of the two men which formed the character of Buckingham was the one of whom the public knew not the life. This was because his love, so strange, so new, and so ardent, made him view the infamous and imaginary accusations of Milady de Winter as, through a magnifying glass, one views as frightful monsters atoms in reality imperceptible by the side of an ant.
当费尔顿将这位部长的公共罪行（如果我们可以这样说的话，是令人震惊的罪行，欧洲的罪行）与米莱迪指控他的私人和未知的罪行进行比较时，费尔顿发现，构成部长性格的这两个人中，罪责更大的一方是罪魁祸首。白金汉是公众不了解其生活的人之一。这是因为他的爱如此陌生、如此新鲜、如此热烈，使他将德温特夫人那些臭名昭著的、虚构的指控视为通过放大镜，人们将其视为现实中在蚂蚁身边难以察觉的可怕怪物原子。 。

The rapidity of his walk heated his blood still more; the idea that he left behind him, exposed to a frightful vengeance, the woman he loved, or rather whom he adored as a saint, the emotion he had experienced, present fatigue—all together exalted his mind above human feeling.
他的步伐加快了，他的血液更加沸腾了。他把自己抛在身后，遭受可怕的报复，他所爱的女人，或者更确切地说，他崇拜的圣人，他所经历的情感，目前的疲劳——所有这些都使他的思想超越了人类的感觉。

He entered Portsmouth about eight o’clock in the morning. The whole population was on foot; drums were beating in the streets and in the port; the troops about to embark were marching toward the sea.
他早上八点左右进入朴茨茅斯。全体居民都步行；街道上和港口里都响起了鼓声。即将登船的部队正在向大海行进。

Felton arrived at the palace of the Admiralty, covered with dust, and streaming with perspiration. His countenance, usually so pale, was purple with heat and passion. The sentinel wanted to repulse him; but Felton called to the officer of the post, and drawing from his pocket the letter of which he was the bearer, he said, ‘A pressing message from Lord de Winter.’
费尔顿抵达海军部宫殿时，满身灰尘，大汗淋漓。他的脸色平时是那么苍白，现在却因为热度和激情而变成紫色。哨兵想要击退他。但费尔顿叫来了邮政官员，从口袋里掏出了他拿着的那封信，说道：“德温特勋爵发来的紧急信息。”

At the name of Lord de Winter, who was known to be one of his Grace’s most intimate friends, the officer of the post gave orders to let Felton pass, who, besides, wore the uniform of a naval officer.
哨所军官以德温特勋爵的名义下令让费尔顿通过，而费尔顿还穿着海军军官的制服。

Felton darted into the palace.
费尔顿冲进宫殿。

At the moment he entered the vestibule, another man was entering likewise, dusty, out of breath, leaving at the gate a post horse, which, on reaching the palace, tumbled on his foreknees.
当他进入前厅时，另一个人也进来了，满身灰尘，气喘吁吁，在大门口留下了一匹驿马，当他到达宫殿时，他的前膝摔倒了。

Felton and he addressed Patrick, the duke’s confidential lackey, at the same moment. Felton named Lord de Winter; the unknown would not name anybody, and pretended that it was to the duke alone he would make himself known. Each was anxious to gain admission before the other.
费尔顿和他同时向公爵的心腹跟班帕特里克讲话。费尔顿被任命为德温特勋爵；未知者不会说出任何人的名字，并假装只有公爵才能知道他自己。每个人都渴望在另一个人之前获得入场许可。

Patrick, who knew Lord de Winter was in affairs of the service, and in relations of friendship with the duke, gave the preference to the one who came in his name. The other was forced to wait, and it was easily to be seen how he cursed the delay.
帕特里克知道德·温特勋爵正忙于公务，而且与公爵关系密切，因此优先考虑以他的名义前来的人。另一个人被迫等待，很容易看出他是如何咒骂这种拖延的。

The valet led Felton through a large hall in which waited the deputies from La Rochelle, headed by the Prince de Soubise, and introduced him into a closet where Buckingham, just out of the bath, was finishing his toilet, upon which, as at all times, he bestowed extraordinary attention.
男仆领着费尔顿穿过一个大厅，大厅里等待着以苏比斯亲王为首的拉罗谢尔的代表，然后把他介绍到一个壁橱里，白金汉刚刚从浴室里出来，正在整理他的厕所，在这上面，就像所有的东西一样。多次，他给予了非凡的关注。

‘Lieutenant Felton, from Lord de Winter,’ said Patrick.
“费尔顿中尉，来自德温特勋爵，”帕特里克说。

‘From Lord de Winter!’ repeated Buckingham; ‘let him come in.’
“来自德温特勋爵！”白金汉重复道。 “让他进来。”

Felton entered. At that moment Buckingham was throwing upon a couch a rich toilet robe, worked with gold, in order to put on a blue velvet doublet embroidered with pearls.
费尔顿进来了。此刻，白金汉正把一件华丽的金质浴袍扔到沙发上，以便穿上绣有珍珠的蓝色天鹅绒紧身上衣。

‘Why didn’t the baron come himself?’ demanded Buckingham. ‘I expected him this morning.’
“男爵为什么不亲自来？”白金汉问道。 “我今天早上就在等他。”

‘He desired me to tell your Grace,’ replied Felton, ‘that he very much regretted not having that honor, but that he was prevented by the guard he is obliged to keep at the castle.’
“他希望我告诉陛下，”费尔顿回答道，“他非常遗憾没有得到这份荣誉，但他不得不在城堡里看守，所以他被阻止了。”

‘Yes, I know that,’ said Buckingham; ‘he has a prisoner.’
“是的，我知道，”白金汉说。 “他有一个囚犯。”

‘It is of that prisoner that I wish to speak to your Grace,’ replied Felton.
“我想和陛下谈谈的是那个囚犯，”费尔顿回答道。

‘Well, then, speak!’
“那么，说吧！”

‘That which I have to say of her can only be heard by yourself, my Lord!’
“我要对她说的话只有您自己才能听到，陛下！”

‘Leave us, Patrick,’ said Buckingham; ‘but remain within sound of the bell. I shall call you presently.’
“离开我们吧，帕特里克，”白金汉说。 “但要保持在铃声响起的范围内。我马上给你打电话。

Patrick went out.
帕特里克出去了。

‘We are alone, sir,’ said Buckingham; ‘speak!’
“我们很孤独，先生，”白金汉说。 '说话！'

‘My Lord,’ said Felton, ‘the Baron de Winter wrote to you the other day to request you to sign an order of embarkation relative to a young woman named Charlotte Backson.’
“大人，”费尔顿说，“德温特男爵前几天写信给您，要求您签署一份与一位名叫夏洛特·巴克森的年轻女子有关的登船令。”

‘Yes, sir; and I answered him, to bring or send me that order and I would sign it.’
'是的先生;我回答他，请把该命令带给我或寄给我，我会签署。

‘Here it is, my Lord.’
“就是这里，陛下。”

‘Give it to me,’ said the duke.
“把它给我，”公爵说。

And taking it from Felton, he cast a rapid glance over the paper, and perceiving that it was the one that had been mentioned to him, he placed it on the table, took a pen, and prepared to sign it.
他从费尔顿手中接过它，飞快地扫了一眼纸，发现这就是刚才向他提到过的那张纸，他把它放在桌子上，拿起笔，准备签字。

‘Pardon, my Lord,’ said Felton, stopping the duke; ‘but does your Grace know that the name of Charlotte Backson is not the true name of this young woman?’
“请原谅，陛下，”费尔顿拦住了公爵说道。 “但是陛下知道夏洛特·巴克森的名字并不是这位年轻女子的真名吗？”

‘Yes, sir, I know it,’ replied the duke, dipping the quill in the ink.
“是的，先生，我知道。”公爵一边回答，一边将羽毛笔浸入墨水中。

‘Then your Grace knows her real name?’ asked Felton, in a sharp tone.
“那么陛下知道她的真名吗？”费尔顿语气尖锐地问道。

‘I know it”; and the duke put the quill to the paper. Felton grew pale.
'我知道这”;公爵把羽毛笔放在纸上。费尔顿的脸色变得苍白。

‘And knowing that real name, my Lord,’ replied Felton, ‘will you sign it all the same?’
“陛下，既然知道了这个真实姓名，”费尔顿回答道，“您还是会签下吗？”

‘Doubtless,’ said Buckingham, ‘and rather twice than once.’
“毫无疑问，”白金汉说，“而且是两次而不是一次。”

‘I cannot believe,’ continued Felton, in a voice that became more sharp and rough, ‘that your Grace knows that it is to Milady de Winter this relates.’
“我不敢相信，”费尔顿继续说道，声音变得更加尖锐和粗暴，“陛下知道这件事与德温特夫人有关。”

‘I know it perfectly, although I am astonished that you know it.’
“我完全知道这一点，尽管我很惊讶你知道这一点。”

‘And will your Grace sign that order without remorse?’
“陛下会毫无悔意地签署这项命令吗？”

Buckingham looked at the young man haughtily.
白金汉傲慢地看着年轻人。

‘Do you know, sir, that you are asking me very strange questions, and that I am very foolish to answer them?’
“先生，您知道您在问我一些非常奇怪的问题，而我回答这些问题是非常愚蠢的吗？”

‘Reply to them, my Lord,’ said Felton; ‘the circumstances are more serious than you perhaps believe.’
“请答复他们，大人，”费尔顿说道。 “情况可能比你想象的更严重。”

Buckingham reflected that the young man, coming from Lord de Winter, undoubtedly spoke in his name, and softened.
白金汉想到这个来自德温特勋爵的年轻人无疑是以他的名义说话的，于是态度软化了。

‘Without remorse,’ said he. ‘The baron knows, as well as myself, that Milady de Winter is a very guilty woman, and it is treating her very favorably to commute her punishment to transportation.’ The duke put his pen to the paper.
他说：“毫无悔意。” “男爵和我自己都知道，德温特夫人是一个非常有罪的女人，将她减为流放是对她非常有利的待遇。”公爵把笔写在纸上。

‘You will not sign that order, my Lord!’ said Felton, making a step toward the duke.
“您不会签署这项命令，大人！”费尔顿一边说，一边向公爵迈出了一步。

‘I will not sign this order! And why not?’
‘我不会签署这个命令！那么为何不？'

‘Because you will look into yourself, and you will do justice to the lady.’
“因为你会审视自己，你会公正地对待这位女士。”

‘I should do her justice by sending her to Tyburn,’ said Buckingham. ‘This lady is infamous.’
“我应该公正地对待她，把她送到泰伯恩，”白金汉说。 “这位女士臭名昭著。”

‘My Lord, Milady de Winter is an angel; you know that she is, and I demand her liberty of you.’
“陛下，德温特夫人是一位天使；你知道她是这样的，我要求她放开你。

‘Bah! Are you mad, to talk to me thus?’ said Buckingham.
'呸！ “你疯了吗，竟然这样跟我说话？”白金汉说道。

‘My Lord, excuse me! I speak as I can; I restrain myself. But, my Lord, think of what you’re about to do, and beware of going too far!’
‘陛下，请原谅！我尽我所能说话；我克制自己。但是，陛下，请考虑一下您将要做什么，并小心不要做得太过分！”

‘What do you say? God pardon me!’ cried Buckingham, ‘I really think he threatens me!’
'你怎么说？上帝原谅我！”白金汉喊道，“我真的认为他威胁了我！”

‘No, my Lord, I still plead. And I say to you: one drop of water suffices to make the full vase overflow; one slight fault may draw down punishment upon the head spared, despite many crimes.’
“不，陛下，我仍然恳求。我告诉你们：一滴水足以溢满花瓶；尽管犯下了许多罪行，但一个轻微的过错可能会导致幸免的人受到惩罚。”

‘Mr. Felton,’ said Buckingham, ‘you will withdraw, and place yourself at once under arrest.’
'先生。费尔顿，”白金汉说，“你将撤退，并立即被捕。”

‘You will hear me to the end, my Lord. You have seduced this young girl; you have outraged, defiled her. Repair your crimes toward her; let her go free, and I will exact nothing else from you.’
“您会听我到底的，陛下。你引诱了这个年轻女孩；你激怒了她，玷污了她。弥补你对她犯下的罪行；让她自由，我不会向你索取任何其他东西。

‘You will exact!’ said Buckingham, looking at Felton with astonishment, and dwelling upon each syllable of the three words as he pronounced them.
“你会严格要求！”白金汉惊讶地看着费尔顿，并在念出这三个词时仔细考虑着这三个词的每一个音节。

‘My Lord,’ continued Felton, becoming more excited as he spoke, ‘my Lord, beware! All England is tired of your iniquities; my Lord, you have abused the royal power, which you have almost usurped; my Lord, you are held in horror by God and men. God will punish you hereafter, but I will punish you here!’
“大人，”费尔顿继续说道，他说话时变得更加兴奋，“大人，小心！”全英格兰都厌倦了你们的罪孽；陛下，您滥用了王权，几乎已经篡夺了王权；我的主啊，上帝和人类都对您感到恐惧。上帝会在以后惩罚你，但我会在这里惩罚你！

‘Ah, this is too much!’ cried Buckingham, making a step toward the door.
“啊，这太过分了！”白金汉喊道，朝门口迈出了一步。

Felton barred his passage.
费尔顿阻止了他的通行。

‘I ask it humbly of you, my Lord,’ said he; ‘sign the order for the liberation of Milady de Winter. Remember that she is a woman whom you have dishonored.’
“我谨向您请求，陛下，”他说道。 ‘签署解放德温特夫人的命令。请记住，她是一个被你羞辱的女人。”

‘Withdraw, sir,’ said Buckingham, ‘or I will call my attendant, and have you placed in irons.’
“撤退，先生，”白金汉说，“否则我就叫我的侍从，把你戴上镣铐。”

‘You shall not call,’ said Felton, throwing himself between the duke and the bell placed on a stand encrusted with silver. ‘Beware, my Lord, you are in the hands of God!’
“你不准打电话，”费尔顿说着，扑到公爵和镶银架子上的大钟之间。 “当心，我的主，你在上帝的手中！”

‘In the hands of the devil, you mean!’ cried Buckingham, raising his voice so as to attract the notice of his people, without absolutely shouting.
“你的意思是，在魔鬼的手中！”白金汉大声喊道，为了吸引他的人民的注意，他没有完全喊叫。

‘Sign, my Lord; sign the liberation of Milady de Winter,’ said Felton, holding out a paper to the duke.
‘陛下，请签字； “签署解放米拉迪·德·温特的协议。”费尔顿一边说，一边向公爵递出一张纸。

‘By force? You are joking! Holloa, Patrick!’
'通过武力？你在开玩笑吧！你好，帕特里克！

‘Sign, my Lord!’
“陛下，请签字！”

‘Never.’
'绝不。'

‘Never?’
'绝不？'

‘Help!’ shouted the duke; and at the same time he sprang toward his sword.
“救命！”公爵喊道。与此同时，他跳向他的剑。

But Felton did not give him time to draw it. He held the knife with which Milady had stabbed herself, open in his bosom; at one bound he was upon the duke.
但费尔顿没有给他时间画它。他把米莱迪刺伤自己的那把刀张开在怀里。他一下子就追上了公爵。

At that moment Patrick entered the room, crying, ‘A letter from France, my Lord.’
就在这时，帕特里克走进了房间，哭喊道：“大人，一封来自法国的信。”

‘From France!’ cried Buckingham, forgetting everything in thinking from whom that letter came.
“来自法国！”白金汉喊道，他忘记了一切，想着这封信是谁写的。

Felton took advantage of this moment, and plunged the knife into his side up to the handle.
费尔顿抓住了这个时机，将刀插入他的身体一侧，直到刀柄。

‘Ah, traitor,’ cried Buckingham, ‘you have killed me!’
“啊，叛徒，”白金汉喊道，“你杀了我！”

‘Murder!’ screamed Patrick.
“谋杀！”帕特里克尖叫道。

Felton cast his eyes round for means of escape, and seeing the door free, he rushed into the next chamber, in which, as we have said, the deputies from La Rochelle were waiting, crossed it as quickly as possible, and rushed toward the staircase; but upon the first step he met Lord de Winter, who, seeing him pale, confused, livid, and stained with blood both on his hands and face, seized him by the throat, crying, ‘I knew it! I guessed it! But too late by a minute, unfortunate, unfortunate that I am!’
费尔顿环顾四周，寻找逃生的方法，看到门没有关上，他冲进了隔壁的房间，正如我们所说，拉罗谢尔的代表正在里面等待，他以最快的速度穿过它，冲向隔壁的房间。楼梯;但刚踏出第一步，他就遇见了德·温特勋爵，温特勋爵看到他脸色苍白、困惑、脸色铁青，手上和脸上都沾满了血，就掐住了他的喉咙，喊道：“我就知道！”我猜对了！但已经晚了一分钟，不幸的是，我真是不幸！”

Felton made no resistance. Lord de Winter placed him in the hands of the guards, who led him, while awaiting further orders, to a little terrace commanding the sea; and then the baron hastened to the duke’s chamber.
费尔顿没有做出任何抵抗。温特勋爵把他交给了卫兵，卫兵们在等待进一步命令的同时把他带到了一个俯瞰大海的小露台上。然后男爵急忙赶到公爵的房间。

At the cry uttered by the duke and the scream of Patrick, the man whom Felton had met in the antechamber rushed into the chamber.
听到公爵的叫声和帕特里克的尖叫声，费尔顿在前厅遇见的那个人冲进了房间。

He found the duke reclining upon a sofa, with his hand pressed upon the wound.
他发现公爵斜靠在沙发上，用手按着伤口。

‘Laporte,’ said the duke, in a dying voice, ‘Laporte, do you come from her?’
“拉波特，”公爵用微弱的声音说道，“拉波特，你是她的后代吗？”

‘Yes, monseigneur,’ replied the faithful cloak bearer of Anne of Austria, ‘but too late, perhaps.’
“是的，大人，”奥地利安妮忠实的斗篷侍者回答道，“但也许已经太晚了。”

‘Silence, Laporte, you may be overheard. Patrick, let no one enter. Oh, I cannot tell what she says to me! My God, I am dying!’
“安静，拉波尔特，你可能会被听到。帕特里克，不让任何人进来。哦，我不知道她对我说了什么！天哪，我快死了！

And the duke swooned.
公爵昏倒了。

Meanwhile, Lord de Winter, the deputies, the leaders of the expedition, the officers of Buckingham’s household, had all made their way into the chamber. Cries of despair resounded on all sides. The news, which filled the palace with tears and groans, soon became known, and spread itself throughout the city.
与此同时，德温特勋爵、代表们、探险队的领导者、白金汉宫的官员们都进入了房间。四面八方响起绝望的呼喊声。这个消息很快就传遍了全城，让皇宫里充满了泪水和呻吟。

The report of a cannon announced that something new and unexpected had taken place.
一声炮响宣布发生了一些新的、意想不到的事情。

Lord de Winter tore his hair.
温特勋爵撕扯着他的头发。

‘Too late by a minute!’ cried he, ‘too late by a minute! Oh, my God, my God! what a misfortune!’
“一分钟都晚了！”他叫道，“一分钟都晚了！”哦，我的天啊，我的天啊！真是不幸啊！

He had been informed at seven o’clock in the morning that a rope ladder floated from one of the windows of the castle; he had hastened to Milady’s chamber, had found it empty, the window open, and the bars filed, had remembered the verbal caution d’Artagnan had transmitted to him by his messenger, had trembled for the duke, and running to the stable without taking time to have a horse saddled, had jumped upon the first he found, had galloped off like the wind, had alighted below in the courtyard, had ascended the stairs precipitately, and on the top step, as we have said, had encountered Felton.
早上七点钟他被告知，一架绳梯从城堡的一扇窗户飘了出来；他急忙赶到米莱迪的房间，发现里面空空如也，窗户开着，铁栅栏竖起，他想起了达达尼昂的使者向他传达的口头警告，他为公爵而颤抖，然后跑向马厩，没有采取任何措施。是时候给马配鞍了，他跳上他发现的第一匹马，像风一样疾驰而去，在下面的院子里降落，匆匆登上楼梯，正如我们所说，在最上面的台阶上遇到了费尔顿。

The duke, however, was not dead. He recovered a little, reopened his eyes, and hope revived in all hearts.
然而，公爵并没有死。他稍微恢复了一点，重新睁开了眼睛，所有人心中都重新燃起了希望。

‘Gentlemen,’ said he, ‘leave me alone with Patrick and Laporte—ah, is that you, de Winter? You sent me a strange madman this morning! See the state in which he has put me.’
“先生们，”他说，“别让我和帕特里克和拉波特待在一起——啊，是你吗，德温特？今天早上你给我送来了一个奇怪的疯子！看看他把我置于怎样的境地。

‘Oh, my Lord!’ cried the baron, ‘I shall never console myself.’
“哦，上帝啊！”男爵喊道，“我永远无法安慰自己。”

‘And you would be quite wrong, my dear de Winter,’ said Buckingham, holding out his hand to him. ‘I do not know the man who deserves being regretted during the whole life of another man; but leave us, I pray you.’
“你就错了，亲爱的德温特，”白金汉向他伸出手说道。 ‘我不知道哪个人值得让另一个人一生感到遗憾；但请离开我们，我请求你。”

The baron went out sobbing.
男爵抽泣着走出去。

There only remained in the closet of the wounded duke Laporte and Patrick. A physician was sought for, but none was yet found.
柜子里只剩下受伤的拉波特公爵和帕特里克了。人们寻找了一名医生，但尚未找到。

‘You will live, my Lord, you will live!’ repeated the faithful servant of Anne of Austria, on his knees before the duke’s sofa.
“您会活下去，陛下，您会活下去！”奥地利安妮忠实的仆人跪在公爵的沙发前重复道。

‘What has she written to me?’ said Buckingham, feebly, streaming with blood, and suppressing his agony to speak of her he loved, ‘what has she written to me? Read me her letter.’
“她给我写了些什么？”白金汉虚弱地说，鲜血直流，他强忍着谈论他所爱的她时的痛苦，“她给我写了些什么？读给我听她的信。

‘Oh, my Lord!’ said Laporte.
“哦，天哪！”拉波尔特说道。

‘Obey, Laporte, do you not see I have no time to lose?’
“听话，拉波尔特，你没看到我已经没有时间可以浪费了吗？”

Laporte broke the seal, and placed the paper before the eyes of the duke; but Buckingham in vain tried to make out the writing.
拉波尔特撕开封条，把纸放在公爵眼前。但白金汉试图辨认其中的字迹，却徒劳无功。

‘Read!’ said he, ‘read! I cannot see. Read, then! For soon, perhaps, I shall not hear, and I shall die without knowing what she has written to me.’
“读！”他说，“读！”我看不见。那就读吧！也许很快我就听不到她写给我的信了，而我死后也不知道她写了些什么。

Laporte made no further objection, and read:
拉波尔特没有进一步反对，并宣读：

‘My Lord, By that which, since I have known you, have suffered by you and for you, I conjure you, if you have any care for my repose, to countermand those great armaments which you are preparing against France, to put an end to a war of which it is publicly said religion is the ostensible cause, and of which, it is generally whispered, your love for me is the concealed cause. This war may not only bring great catastrophes upon England and France, but misfortune upon you, my Lord, for which I should never console myself.
“陛下，自从我认识您以来，您为您而遭受的苦难，我请求您，如果您关心我的休息，请取消您正在准备对抗法国的那些强大武器，结束一场战争，人们公开宣称宗教是这场战争的表面原因，而人们普遍私下议论，你对我的爱是这场战争的隐秘原因。这场战争不仅会给英国和法国带来巨大的灾难，还会给您带来不幸，大人，我决不应该为此安慰自己。

‘Be careful of your life, which is menaced, and which will be dear to me from the moment I am not obliged to see an enemy in you.
‘小心你的生命，它受到威胁，从我不必在你身上看到敌人的那一刻起，它对我来说就很珍贵。

‘Your affectionate
‘你的深情

‘ANNE”
‘安妮’

Buckingham collected all his remaining strength to listen to the reading of the letter; then, when it was ended, as if he had met with a bitter disappointment, he asked, ‘Have you nothing else to say to me by the living voice, Laporte?’
白金汉鼓足了最后的力气，听读了这封信。然后，当比赛结束时，他仿佛感到了一种痛苦的失望，问道：“拉波尔特，你还有什么话要对我说吗？”

‘The queen charged me to tell you to watch over yourself, for she had advice that your assassination would be attempted.’
“女王吩咐我告诉你要小心，因为她建议你会遭到暗杀。”

‘And is that all—is that all?’ replied Buckingham, impatiently.
“就这样吗——就这样了吗？”白金汉不耐烦地回答道。

‘She likewise charged me to tell you that she still loved you.’
“她同样要求我告诉你，她仍然爱你。”

‘Ah,’ said Buckingham, ‘God be praised! My death, then, will not be to her as the death of a stranger!’
“啊，”白金汉说，“赞美上帝！那么，我的死对她来说就不会像一个陌生人的死一样了！

Laporte burst into tears.
拉波尔特泪流满面。

‘Patrick,’ said the due, ‘bring me the casket in which the diamond studs were kept.’
“帕特里克，”应酬者说，“把装着钻石耳钉的盒子给我拿来。”

Patrick brought the object desired, which Laporte recognized as having belonged to the queen.
帕特里克带来了想要的东西，拉波尔特认出这是属于女王的。

‘Now the scent bag of white satin, on which her cipher is embroidered in pearls.’
“现在是白色缎子的香袋，上面用珍珠绣着她的密码。”

Patrick again obeyed.
帕特里克再次服从了。

‘Here, Laporte,’ said Buckingham, ‘these are the only tokens I ever received from her—this silver casket and these two letters. You will restore them to her Majesty; and as a last memorial’—he looked round for some valuable object—‘you will add—‘
“给你，拉波特，”白金汉说，“这是我从她那里收到的唯一的纪念品——这个银匣子和这两封信。你将把它们归还给女王陛下；作为最后的纪念”——他环顾四周寻找一些有价值的物品——“你会补充——”

He still sought; but his eyes, darkened by death, encountered only the knife which had fallen from the hand of Felton, still smoking with the blood spread over its blade.
他仍在寻找；但他的眼睛因死亡而变暗，只看到从费尔顿手中掉落的那把刀，刀上还沾着血，还在冒烟。

‘And you will add to them this knife,’ said the duke, pressing the hand of Laporte. He had just strength enough to place the scent bag at the bottom of the silver casket, and to let the knife fall into it, making a sign to Laporte that he was no longer able to speak; than, in a last convulsion, which this time he had not the power to combat, he slipped from the sofa to the floor.
“你还要给他们加上这把刀，”公爵按住拉波尔特的手说道。他只有足够的力气将气味袋放在银棺材的底部，然后让刀掉进去，向拉波尔特示意他已经无法说话了；最后一次抽搐，这一次他无力反抗，他从沙发上滑到了地板上。

Patrick uttered a loud cry.
帕特里克大声喊叫。

Buckingham tried to smile a last time; but death checked his thought, which remained engraved on his brow like a last kiss of love.
白金汉最后一次试图微笑；但他还是没能成功。但死亡阻止了他的想法，它像爱的最后一吻一样铭刻在他的额头上。

At this moment the duke’s surgeon arrived, quite terrified; he was already on board the admiral’s ship, where they had been obliged to seek him.
这时，公爵的外科医生赶到了，他非常害怕。他已经在海军上将的船上了，他们不得不在那里寻找他。

He approached the duke, took his hand, held it for an instant in his own, and letting it fall, ‘All is useless,’ said he, ‘he is dead.’
他走近公爵，握住他的手，握了一会儿，然后让它落下，“一切都没用，”他说，“他死了。”

‘Dead, dead!’ cried Patrick.
“死了，死了！”帕特里克喊道。

At this cry all the crowd re-entered the apartment, and throughout the palace and town there was nothing but consternation and tumult.
随着一声叫喊，所有的人群都重新进入了公寓，整个宫殿和城镇里除了惊愕和骚动之外什么也没有。

As soon as Lord de Winter saw Buckingham was dead, he ran to Felton, whom the soldiers still guarded on the terrace of the palace.
德温特勋爵一看到白金汉死了，就跑去找费尔顿，士兵们仍然把守在宫殿的露台上。

‘Wretch!’ said he to the young man, who since the death of Buckingham had regained that coolness and self-possession which never after abandoned him, ‘wretch! what have you done?’
“可怜虫！”他对年轻人说，自从白金汉死后，年轻人就恢复了冷静和沉着，而这种冷静和镇定自此以后从未抛弃过他，“可怜虫！你做了什么？'

‘I have avenged myself!’ said he.
“我已经为自己报仇了！”他说道。

‘Avenged yourself,’ said the baron. ‘Rather say that you have served as an instrument to that accursed woman; but I swear to you that this crime shall be her last.’
“为自己报仇。”男爵说道。 ‘不如说你是那个该诅咒的女人的工具；但我向你发誓，这将是她的最后一次犯罪。

‘I don’t know what you mean,’ replied Felton, quietly, ‘and I am ignorant of whom you are speaking, my Lord. I killed the Duke of Buckingham because he twice refused you yourself to appoint me captain; I have punished him for his injustice, that is all.’
“我不明白你的意思，”费尔顿平静地回答，“我也不知道你在说谁，大人。”我杀了白金汉公爵，因为他两次拒绝你亲自任命我为队长；我已经因为他的不公正而惩罚了他，仅此而已。

De Winter, stupefied, looked on while the soldiers bound Felton, and could not tell what to think of such insensibility.
德温特目瞪口呆地看着士兵们捆绑费尔顿，不知道该如何看待这种麻木不仁的行为。

One thing alone, however, threw a shade over the pallid brow of Felton. At every noise he heard, the simple Puritan fancied he recognized the step and voice of Milady coming to throw herself into his arms, to accuse herself, and die with him.
然而，只有一件事给费尔顿苍白的额头上蒙上了一层阴影。听到每一声响动，这个单纯的清教徒都觉得自己认出了米莱迪的脚步声和声音，她正扑进他的怀里，控诉自己，与他同归于尽。

All at once he started. His eyes became fixed upon a point of the sea, commanded by the terrace where he was. With the eagle glance of a sailor he had recognized there, where another would have seen only a gull hovering over the waves, the sail of a sloop which was directed toward the cost of France.
他突然开始了。他的目光固定在大海的一个点上，由他所在的露台控制。他以水手鹰般的目光认出了那里，而换作其他人，他只会看到一只海鸥在海浪上盘旋，一艘单桅帆船的帆正驶向法国的海岸。

He grew deadly pale, placed his hand upon his heart, which was breaking, and at once perceived all the treachery.
他脸色变得惨白，把手放在心碎的地方，立刻察觉到了一切的背叛。

‘One last favor, my Lord!’ said he to the baron.
“最后一个恩惠，大人！”他对男爵说道。

‘What?’ asked his Lordship.
“什么？”勋爵问道。

‘What o’clock is it?’
“现在几点了？”

The baron drew out his watch. ‘It wants ten minutes to nine,’ said he.
男爵拿出手表。 “九点差十分钟，”他说。

Milady had hastened her departure by an hour and a half. As soon as she heard the cannon which announced the fatal event, she had ordered the anchor to be weighed. The vessel was making way under a blue sky, at great distance from the coast.
米莱迪把出发时间提前了一个半小时。当她听到宣布致命事件的炮声时，她立即下令对锚进行称重。船在蓝天下航行，距离海岸很远。

‘God has so willed it!’ said he, with the resignation of a fanatic; but without, however, being able to take his eyes from that ship, on board of which he doubtless fancied he could distinguish the white outline of her to whom he had sacrificed his life.
“这是上帝的旨意！”他带着狂热分子的无奈说道。但无论如何，他的目光都无法从那艘船上移开，毫无疑问，在船上他可以辨认出他为之牺牲的她的白色轮廓。

De Winter followed his look, observed his feelings, and guessed all.
德温特顺着他的目光，观察他的感受，猜出了一切。

‘Be punished ALONE, for the first, miserable man!’ said Lord de Winter to Felton, who was being dragged away with his eyes turned toward the sea; ‘but I swear to you by the memory of my brother whom I have loved so much that your accomplice is not saved.’
“为第一个可怜的人单独受到惩罚！”德温特勋爵对费尔顿说道，费尔顿正被拖走，眼睛转向大海。 “但我以对我兄弟的记忆向你发誓，我非常爱他，以至于你的同伙没有得救。”

Felton lowered his head without pronouncing a syllable.
费尔顿低下头，没有发出一个音节。

As to Lord de Winter, he descended the stairs rapidly, and went straight to the port.
而德温特勋爵则快速走下楼梯，直奔港口而去。

60 IN FRANCE
60 法国

The first fear of the King of England, Charles I, on learning of the death of the duke, was that such terrible news might discourage the Rochellais; he tried, says Richelieu in his Memoirs, to conceal it from them as long as possible, closing all the ports of his kingdom, and carefully keeping watch that no vessel should sail until the army which Buckingham was getting together had gone, taking upon himself, in default of Buckingham, to superintend the departure.
英国国王查理一世得知公爵去世后，首先担心的是这样可怕的消息可能会令罗谢莱家族泄气。黎塞留在他的回忆录中说，他试图尽可能长时间地向他们隐瞒此事，关闭了王国的所有港口，并小心翼翼地监视着任何船只不得航行，直到白金汉正在召集的军队离开，他自己承担了责任，在白金汉宫缺席的情况下，监督离开。

He carried the strictness of this order so far as to detain in England the ambassadors of Denmark, who had taken their leave, and the regular ambassador of Holland, who was to take back to the port of Flushing the Indian merchantmen of which Charles I had made restitution to the United Provinces.
他严格执行这一命令，将已离开的丹麦大使和荷兰常驻大使扣留在英国，后者将把查理一世所带的印度商船带回法拉盛港。归还给联合省。

But as he did not think of giving this order till five hours after the event—that is to say, till two o’clock in the afternoon—two vessels had already left the port, the one bearing, as we know, Milady, who, already anticipating the event, was further confirmed in that belief by seeing the black flag flying at the masthead of the admiral’s ship.
但是，由于他直到事件发生后五个小时（也就是说，直到下午两点）才想到发出这一命令，两艘船已经离开港口，据我们所知，其中一艘载着米莱迪，她已经预料到这一事件的人，看到海军上将舰艇桅顶上飘扬的黑旗，进一步证实了这一信念。

As to the second vessel, we will tell hereafter whom it carried, and how it set sail.
至于第二艘船，我们将在后面讲述它载着谁，以及它是如何起航的。

During this time nothing new occurred in the camp at La Rochelle; only the king, who was bored, as always, but perhaps a little more so in camp than elsewhere, resolved to go incognito and spend the festival of St. Louis at St. Germain, and asked the cardinal to order him an escort of only twenty Musketeers. The cardinal, who sometimes became weary of the king, granted this leave of absence with great pleasure to his royal lieutenant, who promised to return about the fifteenth of September.
在此期间，拉罗谢尔营地没有发生任何新的事情。只有国王一如既往地感到无聊，但也许在营地里比在其他地方更无聊，他决定隐姓埋名，在圣日耳曼度过圣路易节，并要求红衣主教命令一支只有二十个火枪手。红衣主教有时对国王感到厌倦，他非常高兴地向他的皇家副官请了假，副官答应在九月十五日左右回来。

M. de Treville, being informed of this by his Eminence, packed his portmanteau; and as without knowing the cause he knew the great desire and even imperative need which his friends had of returning to Paris, it goes without saying that he fixed upon them to form part of the escort.
德·特雷维尔先生接到主教阁下的通知后，收拾起了他的手提包。尽管他不知道原因，但他知道他的朋友们非常渴望甚至迫切需要返回巴黎，所以不用说，他决定让他们成为护送的一部分。

The four young men heard the news a quarter of an hour after M. de Treville, for they were the first to whom he communicated it. It was then that d’Artagnan appreciated the favor the cardinal had conferred upon him in making him at last enter the Musketeers—for without that circumstance he would have been forced to remain in the camp while his companions left it.
这四个年轻人比德·特雷维尔先生晚一刻钟才听到这个消息，因为他们是他第一个通知的。就在那时，达达尼昂感激红衣主教给予他的恩惠，使他最终进入火枪手队——因为如果没有这种情况，他将被迫留在营地，而他的同伴们则离开营地。

It goes without saying that this impatience to return toward Paris had for a cause the danger which Mme. Bonacieux would run of meeting at the convent of Bethune with Milady, her mortal enemy. Aramis therefore had written immediately to Marie Michon, the seamstress at Tours who had such fine acquaintances, to obtain from the queen authority for Mme. Bonacieux to leave the convent, and to retire either into Lorraine or Belgium. They had not long to wait for an answer. Eight or ten days afterward Aramis received the following letter:
不言而喻，这种急于返回巴黎的行为导致了夫人的危险。博纳希厄经常在白求恩修道院与她的死敌米莱迪会面。因此，阿拉米斯立即写信给图尔的女裁缝玛丽·米琼（Marie Michon），她是一位熟人，为她从女王那里获得授权。博纳希厄离开修道院，退休到洛林或比利时。他们没等多久就得到了答案。八天或十天后，阿拉米斯收到了以下信：

My Dear Cousin, Here is the authorization from my sister to withdraw our little servant from the convent of Bethune, the air of which you think is bad for her. My sister sends you this authorization with great pleasure, for she is very partial to the little girl, to whom she intends to be more serviceable hereafter.
我亲爱的表弟，这是我妹妹的授权，让我们的小仆人从白求恩修道院撤走，你认为那里的空气对她不好。我姐姐非常高兴地向您发送这份授权书，因为她非常偏爱这个小女孩，她打算今后为她提供更多服务。

I salute you,
我向你们致敬，

MARIE MICHON
玛丽·米琼

To this letter was added an order, conceived in these terms:
这封信中添加了一项命令，其内容如下：

At the Louvre, August 10, 1628 The superior of the convent of Bethune will place in the hands of the person who shall present this note to her the novice who entered the convent upon my recommendation and under my patronage.
1628 年 8 月 10 日，在卢浮宫，白求恩修道院的院长将把根据我的推荐和赞助进入修道院的新手交给向她出示这张纸条的人。

ANNE
安妮

It may be easily imagined how the relationship between Aramis and a seamstress who called the queen her sister amused the young men; but Aramis, after having blushed two or three times up to the whites of his eyes at the gross pleasantry of Porthos, begged his friends not to revert to the subject again, declaring that if a single word more was said to him about it, he would never again implore his cousins to interfere in such affairs.
不难想象，阿拉米斯和一位称王后为妹妹的女裁缝之间的关系让年轻人感到多么开心。但是，阿拉米斯在看到波托斯的粗俗玩笑后，脸红了两三下，恳求他的朋友们不要再回到这个话题，并宣称如果有人再对他说一句话，他就不再谈论这个话题了。再也不会恳求他的表兄弟干涉这样的事情了。

There was no further question, therefore, about Marie Michon among the four Musketeers, who besides had what they wanted: that was, the order to withdraw Mme. Bonacieux from the convent of the Carmelites of Bethune. It was true that this order would not be of great use to them while they were in camp at La Rochelle; that is to say, at the other end of France. Therefore d’Artagnan was going to ask leave of absence of M. de Treville, confiding to him candidly the importance of his departure, when the news was transmitted to him as well as to his three friends that the king was about to set out for Paris with an escort of twenty Musketeers, and that they formed part of the escort.
因此，四个火枪手中的玛丽·米琼就不再有任何问题了，她除了得到了他们想要的东西之外，那就是撤回夫人的命令。博纳希厄来自白求恩加尔默罗会修道院。确实，当他们在拉罗谢尔营地时，这个命令对他们来说并没有多大用处。也就是说，在法国的另一端。因此，达达尼昂正要请德·特雷维尔先生请假，向他坦白地透露他离开的重要性，这时国王即将出发的消息传给了他和他的三个朋友。巴黎有二十名火枪手组成的护卫队，他们也是护卫队的一部分。

Their joy was great. The lackeys were sent on before with the baggage, and they set out on the morning of the sixteenth.
他们的喜悦是巨大的。走狗们先前就已经带着行李上路了，十六日一早他们就出发了。

The cardinal accompanied his Majesty from Surgeres to Mauzes; and there the king and his minister took leave of each other with great demonstrations of friendship.
红衣主教陪同国王陛下从苏热雷斯前往莫泽斯。国王和大臣在那里互相告别，表现出了极大的友谊。

The king, however, who sought distraction, while traveling as fast as possible—for he was anxious to be in Paris by the twenty-third—stopped from time to time to fly the magpie, a pastime for which the taste had been formerly inspired in him by de Luynes, and for which he had always preserved a great predilection. Out of the twenty Musketeers sixteen, when this took place, rejoiced greatly at this relaxation; but the other four cursed it heartily. D’Artagnan, in particular, had a perpetual buzzing in his ears, which Porthos explained thus: ‘A very great lady has told me that this means that somebody is talking of you somewhere.’
然而，国王为了分散注意力，以尽可能快的速度旅行——因为他急于在二十三点到达巴黎——时不时地停下来放喜鹊，这是一种以前激发人们兴趣的消遣。德吕内斯对他的作品一直抱有极大的偏爱。当这一切发生时，二十名火枪手中有十六人因这种放松而感到非常高兴。其他四人却是骂声一片。尤其是达达尼昂，他的耳朵里一直嗡嗡作响，波托斯这样解释道：“一位非常伟大的女士告诉我，这意味着有人在某个地方谈论你。”

At length the escort passed through Paris on the twenty-third, in the night. The king thanked M. de Treville, and permitted him to distribute furloughs for four days, on condition that the favored parties should not appear in any public place, under penalty of the Bastille.
最后，护送队于二十三日夜间穿过巴黎。国王感谢德特雷维尔先生，并允许他休假四天，条件是受宠的政党不得出现在任何公共场所，否则将受到巴士底狱的处罚。

The first four furloughs granted, as may be imagined, were to our four friends. Still further, Athos obtained of M. de Treville six days instead of four, and introduced into these six days two more nights—for they set out on the twenty-fourth at five o’clock in the evening, and as a further kindness M. de Treville post-dated the leave to the morning of the twenty-fifth.
可以想象，前四次休假是给我们的四位朋友的。更进一步，阿托斯让德·特雷维尔先生从四天到六天，并在这六天中又安排了两晚——因为他们是在二十四号晚上五点钟出发的，作为进一步的善意，德特雷维尔把休假日期推迟到二十五号早上。

‘Good Lord!’ said d’Artagnan, who, as we have often said, never stumbled at anything. ‘It appears to me that we are making a great trouble of a very simple thing. In two days, and by using up two or three horses (that’s nothing; I have plenty of money), I am at Bethune. I present my letter from the queen to the superior, and I bring back the dear treasure I go to seek—not into Lorraine, not into Belgium, but to Paris, where she will be much better concealed, particularly while the cardinal is at La Rochelle. Well, once returned from the country, half by the protection of her cousin, half through what we have personally done for her, we shall obtain from the queen what we desire. Remain, then, where you are, and do not exhaust yourselves with useless fatigue. Myself and Planchet are all that such a simple expedition requires.’
“上帝啊！”达达尼昂说道，正如我们常说的，他从来没有在任何事情上犯过错误。 “在我看来，我们正在为一件非常简单的事情惹上大麻烦。两天之内，用了两三匹马（这没什么，我有的是钱），就到了白求恩。我把女王写给上级的信呈递给上级，我带回了我要去寻找的珍贵宝藏——不是去洛林，不是去比利时，而是去巴黎，在那里她会更好地隐藏起来，特别是当红衣主教在巴黎时。罗谢尔。好吧，等从国内回来，一半靠她表弟的保护，一半靠我们亲自为她做的，我们就能从女王那里得到我们想要的东西了。那么，就留在原地吧，不要因无用的疲劳而精疲力竭。这样一次简单的探险只需要我和 Planchet 就够了。

To this Athos replied quietly: ‘We also have money left—for I have not yet drunk all my share of the diamond, and Porthos and Aramis have not eaten all theirs. We can therefore use up four horses as well as one. But consider, d’Artagnan,’ added he, in a tone so solemn that it made the young man shudder, ‘consider that Bethune is a city where the cardinal has given rendezvous to a woman who, wherever she goes, brings misery with her. If you had only to deal with four men, d’Artagnan, I would allow you to go alone. You have to do with that woman! We four will go; and I hope to God that with our four lackeys we may be in sufficient number.’
阿托斯平静地回答道：“我们还剩下钱——因为我还没有喝完我那份钻石，波托斯和阿拉米斯也没有吃完他们的钻石。”因此，我们既可以用掉一匹马，也可以用掉四匹马。但是，达达尼昂，”他补充道，语气如此严肃，使年轻人不寒而栗，“考虑一下白求恩这座城市，红衣主教在那里与一个女人会面，无论她走到哪里，都会带来痛苦。如果你只需要对付四个人，达达尼昂，我会让你一个人去。你和那个女人有关系！我们四个人去；我向上帝祈祷，希望我们的四个仆人数量足够。

‘You terrify me, Athos!’ cried d’Artagnan. ‘My God! what do you fear?’
“你吓坏了我，阿托斯！”达达尼昂喊道。 '我的上帝！你害怕什么？

‘Everything!’ replied Athos.
“一切！”阿托斯回答道。

D’Artagnan examined the countenances of his companions, which, like that of Athos, wore an impression of deep anxiety; and they continued their route as fast as their horses could carry them, but without adding another word.
达达尼昂审视着同伴们的表情，他们的表情和阿托斯一样，都流露出深深的焦虑。他们以马匹所能承受的最快速度继续赶路，但没有多说一句话。

On the evening of the twenty-fifth, as they were entering Arras, and as d’Artagnan was dismounting at the inn of the Golden Harrow to drink a glass of wine, a horseman came out of the post yard, where he had just had a relay, started off at a gallop, and with a fresh horse took the road to Paris. At the moment he passed through the gateway into the street, the wind blew open the cloak in which he was wrapped, although it was in the month of August, and lifted his hat, which the traveler seized with his hand the moment it had left his head, pulling it eagerly over his eyes.
二十五号晚上，当他们进入阿拉斯时，达达尼昂在金耙旅馆下马喝一杯酒时，一个骑兵从他刚刚下车的邮局里出来。接力赛，疾驰出发，带着一匹新鲜的马踏上通往巴黎的道路。当他穿过大门进入街道时，尽管是八月，风却吹开了他包裹的斗篷，并掀起了他的帽子，旅行者一离开就用手抓住了帽子。他的头，急切地将它拉到眼睛上。

D’Artagnan, who had his eyes fixed upon this man, became very pale, and let his glass fall.
达达尼昂的眼睛盯着这个人，脸色变得非常苍白，杯子掉了下来。

‘What is the matter, monsieur?’ said Planchet. ‘Oh, come, gentlemen, my master is ill!’
“怎么了，先生？”普朗歇问道。 “哦，来吧，先生们，我的主人病了！”

The three friends hastened toward d’Artagnan, who, instead of being ill, ran toward his horse. They stopped him at the door.
三个朋友赶紧向达达尼昂走去，达达尼昂并没有生病，而是跑向他的马。他们在门口拦住了他。

‘Well, where the devil are you going now?’ cried Athos.
“哎呀，你现在到底要去哪里？”阿托斯喊道。

‘It is he!’ cried d’Artagnan, pale with anger, and with the sweat on his brow, ‘it is he! let me overtake him!’
“是他！”达达尼昂喊道，他气得脸色苍白，额头冒汗，“是他！”让我追上他！

‘He? What he?’ asked Athos.
'他？他是什么？”阿托斯问。

‘He, that man!’
“他，那个男人！”

‘What man?’
'什么样的男人？'

‘That cursed man, my evil genius, whom I have always met with when threatened by some misfortune, he who accompanied that horrible woman when I met her for the first time, he whom I was seeking when I offended our Athos, he whom I saw on the very morning Madame Bonacieux was abducted. I have seen him; that is he! I recognized him when the wind blew upon his cloak.’
“那个被诅咒的男人，我的邪恶天才，当我受到某种不幸的威胁时，我总是会遇到他，当我第一次见到那个可怕的女人时，他陪伴着她，当我冒犯了我们的阿托斯时，我正在寻找他，我的他就在博纳瑟夫人被绑架的那天早上我就看到了。我见过他；那就是他！当风吹过他的斗篷时，我认出了他。”

‘The devil!’ said Athos, musingly.
“魔鬼！”阿托斯若有所思地说。

‘To saddle, gentlemen! to saddle! Let us pursue him, and we shall overtake him!’
“上鞍吧，先生们！上鞍！让我们追赶他，我们一定会追上他的！

‘My dear friend,’ said Aramis, ‘remember that he goes in an opposite direction from that in which we are going, that he has a fresh horse, and ours are fatigued, so that we shall disable our own horses without even a chance of overtaking him. Let the man go, d’Artagnan; let us save the woman.’
“我亲爱的朋友，”阿拉米斯说，“记住，他走的方向与我们要去的方向相反，他有一匹新马，而我们的马却很疲劳，所以我们会毫无机会地让自己的马失去能力。”超越他。放开这个人吧，达达尼昂；让我们救救那个女人。”

‘Monsieur, monsieur!’ cried a hostler, running out and looking after the stranger, ‘monsieur, here is a paper which dropped out of your hat! Eh, monsieur, eh!’
“先生，先生！”一个马夫喊道，跑出去照顾陌生人，“先生，这是一张从你帽子里掉下来的纸！”呃，先生，呃！’

‘Friend,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘a half-pistole for that paper!’
“朋友，”达达尼昂说，“那张纸半手枪！”

‘My faith, monsieur, with great pleasure! Here it is!’
“我的信仰，先生，非常高兴！这里是！'

The hostler, enchanted with the good day’s work he had done, returned to the yard. D’Artagnan unfolded the paper.
马夫对自己这一天的辛苦工作感到非常高兴，他回到了院子。达达尼昂展开那张纸。

‘Well?’ eagerly demanded all his three friends.
“怎么样？”他的三个朋友急切地问道。

‘Nothing but one word!’ said d’Artagnan.
“只有一个字！”达达尼昂说道。

‘Yes,’ said Aramis, ‘but that one word is the name of some town or village.’
“是的，”阿拉米斯说，“但那个词是某个城镇或村庄的名字。”

‘Armentieres,’ read Porthos; ‘Armentieres? I don’t know such a place.’
波托斯读到：“阿门蒂耶尔”； “阿门蒂耶尔？我不知道有这样的地方。

‘And that name of a town or village is written in her hand!’ cried Athos.
“城镇或村庄的名字都写在她的手上！”阿托斯喊道。

‘Come on, come on!’ said d’Artagnan; ‘let us keep that paper carefully, perhaps I have not thrown away my half-pistole. To horse, my friends, to horse!’
“来吧，来吧！”达达尼昂说。 “让我们小心保管那张纸，也许我没有扔掉我的半手枪。”去马吧，我的朋友们，去马吧！

And the four friends flew at a gallop along the road to Bethune.
四个朋友沿着通往白求恩的道路飞驰而去。

61 THE CARMELITE CONVENT AT BETHUNE
61 白求恩加尔默罗会修道院

Great criminals bear about them a kind of predestination which makes them surmount all obstacles, which makes them escape all dangers, up to the moment which a wearied Providence has marked as the rock of their impious fortunes.
大罪犯身上有一种宿命，使他们能够克服一切障碍，逃脱一切危险，直到疲倦的上帝将其标记为他们不虔诚的命运的基石。

It was thus with Milady. She escaped the cruisers of both nations, and arrived at Boulogne without accident.
米莱迪就是这样。她逃离了两国的巡洋舰，并顺利抵达布洛涅。

When landing at Portsmouth, Milady was an Englishwoman whom the persecutions of the French drove from La Rochelle; when landing at Boulogne, after a two days’ passage, she passed for a Frenchwoman whom the English persecuted at Portsmouth out of their hatred for France.
在朴茨茅斯登陆时，米莱迪是一名英国妇女，因法国人的迫害而被迫离开拉罗谢尔。经过两天的航行后，当她在布洛涅着陆时，她误以为是一名法国妇女，英国人出于对法国的仇恨而在朴茨茅斯迫害她。

Milady had, likewise, the best of passports—her beauty, her noble appearance, and the liberality with which she distributed her pistoles. Freed from the usual formalities by the affable smile and gallant manners of an old governor of the port, who kissed her hand, she only remained long enough at Boulogne to put into the post a letter, conceived in the following terms:
同样，米莱迪也拥有最好的护照——她的美丽，她高贵的外表，以及她慷慨地分发手枪。一位老港口总督亲吻了她的手，脸上带着和蔼可亲的微笑和殷勤的举止，使她摆脱了通常的礼节，只在布洛涅停留了足够长的时间，就投了一封信，信的内容如下：

‘To his Eminence Monseigneur the Cardinal Richelieu, in his camp before La Rochelle.
“致黎塞留红衣主教阁下，在拉罗谢尔之前的营地。

‘Monseigneur, Let your Eminence be reassured. His Grace the Duke of Buckingham WILL NOT SET OUT for France.
“大人，请陛下放心。白金汉公爵陛下不会启程前往法国。

‘MILADY DE ——
‘米拉迪·德——

‘BOULOGNE, evening of the twenty-fifth.
‘布洛涅，二十五号晚上。

‘P.S.—According to the desire of your Eminence, I report to the convent of the Carmelites at Bethune, where I will await your orders.’
“附注——根据阁下的愿望，我前往白求恩加尔默罗会修道院报到，在那里等待您的命令。”

Accordingly, that same evening Milady commenced her journey. Night overtook her; she stopped, and slept at an inn. At five o’clock the next morning she again proceeded, and in three hours after entered Bethune. She inquired for the convent of the Carmelites, and went thither immediately.
因此，当天晚上米莱迪就开始了她的旅程。夜幕降临了；她停下来，睡在一家旅馆里。第二天早上五点，她又出发了，三个小时后就到了白求恩。她询问了加尔默罗会修道院的情况，并立即前往那里。

The superior met her; Milady showed her the cardinal’s order. The abbess assigned her a chamber, and had breakfast served.
上级接见了她；米莱迪向她展示了红衣主教的命令。女院长给她分配了一间房间，并为她准备了早餐。

All the past was effaced from the eyes of this woman; and her looks, fixed on the future, beheld nothing but the high fortunes reserved for her by the cardinal, whom she had so successfully served without his name being in any way mixed up with the sanguinary affair. The ever-new passions which consumed her gave to her life the appearance of those clouds which float in the heavens, reflecting sometimes azure, sometimes fire, sometimes the opaque blackness of the tempest, and which leave no traces upon the earth behind them but devastation and death.
过去的一切都从这个女人的眼前消失了。她的目光着眼于未来，只看到红衣主教为她保留的巨额财富，她如此成功地为红衣主教服务，而没有以任何方式将他的名字与血腥事件混在一起。不断吞噬她的激情使她的生活看起来像漂浮在天空中的云彩，有时反射出蔚蓝，有时反射出火焰，有时反射出暴风雨的不透明黑色，在它们身后的大地上除了毁灭之外没有留下任何痕迹。和死亡。

After breakfast, the abbess came to pay her a visit. There is very little amusement in the cloister, and the good superior was eager to make the acquaintance of her new boarder.
早餐后，女院长来看望她。回廊里几乎没有什么娱乐活动，好心的上司很想结识她的新寄宿生。

Milady wished to please the abbess. This was a very easy matter for a woman so really superior as she was. She tried to be agreeable, and she was charming, winning the good superior by her varied conversation and by the graces of her whole personality.
米莱迪想要取悦女院长。对于一个像她这样高高在上的女人来说，这是一件很容易的事情。她试图表现得和蔼可亲，而且很迷人，通过她多变的谈话和她整个人格的优雅赢得了好上司的青睐。

The abbess, who was the daughter of a noble house, took particular delight in stories of the court, which so seldom travel to the extremities of the kingdom, and which, above all, have so much difficulty in penetrating the walls of convents, at whose threshold the noise of the world dies away.
女修道院院长是贵族家庭的女儿，她对宫廷故事特别感兴趣，这些故事很少传播到王国的尽头，而且最重要的是，要穿透修道院的墙壁非常困难，在踏入门槛，世界的喧嚣就消失了。

Milady, on the contrary, was quite conversant with all aristocratic intrigues, amid which she had constantly lived for five or six years. She made it her business, therefore, to amuse the good abbess with the worldly practices of the court of France, mixed with the eccentric pursuits of the king; she made for her the scandalous chronicle of the lords and ladies of the court, whom the abbess knew perfectly by name, touched lightly on the amours of the queen and the Duke of Buckingham, talking a great deal to induce her auditor to talk a little.
米莱狄则相反，对一切贵族的阴谋诡计都了如指掌，她已经在其中生活了五六年了。因此，她以法国宫廷的世俗做法和国王的古怪追求来取悦善良的女修道院院长。她为她编写了宫廷贵族和贵妇的丑闻编年史，女院长对他们的名字了如指掌，轻描淡写地触及了王后和白金汉公爵的恋情，说了很多话，以吸引她的听众多说一点。 。

But the abbess contented herself with listening and smiling without replying a word. Milady, however, saw that this sort of narrative amused her very much, and kept at it; only she now let her conversation drift toward the cardinal.
但女院长只满足于听着，微笑着，没有回答任何一句话。然而米莱迪觉得这种叙述很有趣，就一直这样讲下去。只是她现在把话题转向了红衣主教。

But she was greatly embarrassed. She did not know whether the abbess was a royalist or a cardinalist; she therefore confined herself to a prudent middle course. But the abbess, on her part, maintained a reserve still more prudent, contenting herself with making a profound inclination of the head every time the fair traveler pronounced the name of his Eminence.
但她却感到非常尴尬。她不知道女院长是保皇党还是红衣主教；因此，她只采取谨慎的中间路线。但女修道院院长则更加谨慎，每次这位美丽的旅行者念出大人的名字时，她都会深深地歪着头。

Milady began to think she should soon grow weary of a convent life; she resolved, then, to risk something in order that she might know how to act afterward. Desirous of seeing how far the discretion of the good abbess would go, she began to tell a story, obscure at first, but very circumstantial afterward, about the cardinal, relating the amours of the minister with Mme. d’Aiguillon, Marion de Lorme, and several other gay women.
米莱迪开始觉得她很快就会厌倦修道院的生活。于是，她决定冒点险，以便知道事后该如何行动。她想看看这位好心女修道院院长的判断力能达到什么程度，于是开始讲述一个关于红衣主教的故事，起初晦涩难懂，但后来却非常详细，讲述了部长与夫人的恋情。 d’Aiguillon、Marion de Lorme 和其他几位女同性恋者。

The abbess listened more attentively, grew animated by degrees, and smiled.
女院长听得更加专注，渐渐变得活跃起来，微笑着。

‘Good,’ thought Milady; ‘she takes a pleasure in my conversation. If she is a cardinalist, she has no fanaticism, at least.’
“很好，”米莱迪想。 “她对我的谈话感到很高兴。如果她是一位红衣主教，至少她没有狂热。

She then went on to describe the persecutions exercised by the cardinal upon his enemies. The abbess only crossed herself, without approving or disapproving.
然后她继续描述了红衣主教对敌人的迫害。女院长只在胸前画了个十字，没有表示赞同或反对。

This confirmed Milady in her opinion that the abbess was rather royalist than cardinalist. Milady therefore continued, coloring her narrations more and more.
这证实了米莱迪的观点：女修道院院长是保王党而不是红衣主教。因此，米莱迪继续为她的叙述增添色彩。

‘I am very ignorant of these matters,’ said the abbess, at length; ‘but however distant from the court we may be, however remote from the interests of the world we may be placed, we have very sad examples of what you have related. And one of our boarders has suffered much from the vengeance and persecution of the cardinal!’
“我对这些事情一无所知，”女院长最后说道。 “但是，无论我们与法院的距离有多远，无论我们与世界利益的距离有多远，我们都面临着你所提到的非常悲惨的例子。我们的一位寄宿生因红衣主教的报复和迫害而遭受了很大的痛苦！

‘One of your boarders?’ said Milady; ‘oh, my God! Poor woman! I pity her, then.’
“你的寄宿生之一？”米莱迪问道。 '我的天啊！可怜的女人！那么我可怜她。

‘And you have reason, for she is much to be pitied. Imprisonment, menaces, ill treatment-she has suffered everything. But after all,’ resumed the abbess, ‘Monsieur Cardinal has perhaps plausible motives for acting thus; and though she has the look of an angel, we must not always judge people by the appearance.’
“你说得有道理，因为她实在太可怜了。”监禁、威胁、虐待——她遭受了一切。但毕竟，”女修道院院长继续说道，“红衣主教先生这样做或许有合理的动机；虽然她有着天使般的容貌，但我们不能总是以貌取人。

‘Good!’ said Milady to herself; ‘who knows! I am about, perhaps, to discover something here; I am in the vein.’
“好！”米莱迪自言自语道。 '谁知道！或许，我即将在这里发现一些东西；我很感兴趣。

She tried to give her countenance an appearance of perfect candor.
她努力让自己的表情显得十分坦率。

‘Alas,’ said Milady, ‘I know it is so. It is said that we must not trust to the face; but in what, then, shall we place confidence, if not in the most beautiful work of the Lord? As for me, I shall be deceived all my life perhaps, but I shall always have faith in a person whose countenance inspires me with sympathy.’
“唉，”米莱迪说，“我知道是这样的。”有人说，我们不能相信表面；但如果不是主最美丽的作为，我们还能对什么充满信心呢？至于我，也许我一生都会被欺骗，但我会永远相信一个让我同情的人。

‘You would, then, be tempted to believe,’ said the abbess, ‘that this young person is innocent?’
“那么，你会忍不住相信，”女院长说，“这个年轻人是无辜的吗？”

‘The cardinal pursues not only crimes,’ said she: ‘there are certain virtues which he pursues more severely than certain offenses.’
“红衣主教不仅追求犯罪，”她说，“他还更严厉地追求某些美德，而不是某些罪行。”

‘Permit me, madame, to express my surprise,’ said the abbess.
“请允许我，夫人，表达我的惊讶，”女院长说道。

‘At what?’ said Milady, with the utmost ingenuousness.
“什么？”米莱迪极其天真地说。

‘At the language you use.’
“按照你使用的语言。”

‘What do you find so astonishing in that language?’ said Milady, smiling.
“你觉得这种语言有什么令人惊奇的地方？”米莱迪微笑着说道。

‘You are the friend of the cardinal, for he sends you hither, and yet—‘
“你是红衣主教的朋友，因为他派你来这里，然而——”

‘And yet I speak ill of him,’ replied Milady, finishing the thought of the superior.
“可是我却说他的坏话，”米莱迪回答道，结束了上级的思绪。

‘At least you don’t speak well of him.’
“至少你没有说他好话。”

‘That is because I am not his friend,’ said she, sighing, ‘but his victim!’
“那是因为我不是他的朋友，”她叹了口气说，“而是他的受害者！”

‘But this letter in which he recommends you to me?’
“但是他向我推荐你的这封信呢？”

‘Is an order for me to confine myself to a sort of prison, from which he will release me by one of his satellites.’
“这是一项命令，要求我将自己关进某种监狱，他将通过他的一颗卫星将我从监狱中释放出来。”

‘But why have you not fled?’
“但是你为什么不逃走呢？”

‘Whither should I go? Do you believe there is a spot on the earth which the cardinal cannot reach if he takes the trouble to stretch forth his hand? If I were a man, that would barely be possible; but what can a woman do? This young boarder of yours, has she tried to fly?’
‘我该去哪里？你相信地球上有一个地方是红衣主教不费力地伸出手就够不到的吗？如果我是一个男人，那几乎是不可能的；但女人能做什么呢？你这位年轻的寄宿生，她尝试过飞翔吗？

‘No, that is true; but she—that is another thing; I believe she is detained in France by some love affair.’
‘不，确实如此；但她——那是另一回事；我相信她是因为某种爱情而被拘留在法国的。”

‘Ah,’ said Milady, with a sigh, ‘if she loves she is not altogether wretched.’
“啊，”米莱迪叹了口气说，“如果她爱的话，她也不完全是可怜的。”

‘Then,’ said the abbess, looking at Milady with increasing interest, ‘I behold another poor victim?’
“那么，”女院长越来越感兴趣地看着米莱迪，“我看到了另一个可怜的受害者？”

‘Alas, yes,’ said Milady.
“唉，是的，”米莱迪说。

The abbess looked at her for an instant with uneasiness, as if a fresh thought suggested itself to her mind.
女院长不安地看了她一眼，似乎有一个新的想法浮现在她的脑海里。

‘You are not an enemy of our holy faith?’ said she, hesitatingly.
“你不是我们神圣信仰的敌人吗？”她犹豫地说。

‘Who—I?’ cried Milady; ‘I a Protestant? Oh, no! I call to witness the God who hears us, that on the contrary I am a fervent Catholic!’
“谁——我？”米莱迪喊道。 ‘我是新教徒？不好了！我呼求垂听我们的上帝作证，相反，我是一名热心的天主教徒！”

‘Then, madame,’ said the abbess, smiling, ‘be reassured; the house in which you are shall not be a very hard prison, and we will do all in our power to make you cherish your captivity. You will find here, moreover, the young woman of whom I spoke, who is persecuted, no doubt, in consequence of some court intrigue. She is amiable and well-behaved.’
“那么，夫人，”女院长微笑着说道，“放心吧；你所在的房子不会是一个非常艰苦的监狱，我们将尽一切努力让你珍惜你的囚禁。此外，你还会在这里找到我所说的那位年轻女子，毫无疑问，她因宫廷阴谋而受到迫害。她很和蔼可亲，举止也很好。

‘What is her name?’
'她叫什么名字？'

‘She was sent to me by someone of high rank, under the name of Kitty. I have not tried to discover her other name.’
“她是一位名叫基蒂的高层人士派给我的。我没有试图找出她的另一个名字。

‘Kitty!’ cried Milady. ‘What? Are you sure?’
“基蒂！”米莱迪喊道。 '什么？你确定吗？'

‘That she is called so? Yes, madame. Do you know her?’
‘她是这么称呼的吗？是的，女士。你认识她吗？'

Milady smiled to herself at the idea which had occurred to her that this might be her old chambermaid. There was connected with the remembrance of this girl a remembrance of anger; and a desire of vengeance disordered the features of Milady, which, however, immediately recovered the calm and benevolent expression which this woman of a hundred faces had for a moment allowed them to lose.
米莱迪想到这可能是她的老女仆，心里暗自微笑。想起这个女孩，就会想起愤怒。复仇的欲望扰乱了米莱迪的面容，不过，她立刻又恢复了这个百面女人曾一度让他们失去的平静和仁慈的表情。

‘And when can I see this young lady, for whom I already feel so great a sympathy?’ asked Milady.
“我什么时候才能见到这位我已经深感同情的年轻女士呢？”米莱迪问道。

‘Why, this evening,’ said the abbess; ‘today even. But you have been traveling these four days, as you told me yourself. This morning you rose at five o’clock; you must stand in need of repose. Go to bed and sleep; at dinnertime we will rouse you.’
“哎呀，今天晚上，”女院长说。 '即使是今天。但这四天你一直在旅行，正如你自己告诉我的。今天早上你五点钟起床；你必须需要休息。上床睡觉；晚餐时间我们会叫醒你。

Although Milady would very willingly have gone without sleep, sustained as she was by all the excitements which a new adventure awakened in her heart, ever thirsting for intrigues, she nevertheless accepted the offer of the superior. During the last fifteen days she had experienced so many and such various emotions that if her frame of iron was still capable of supporting fatigue, her mind required repose.
尽管米莱迪非常愿意不睡觉，因为新的冒险在她心中唤醒了所有的兴奋，她一直渴望阴谋，但她仍然接受了上级的提议。这十五天里，她经历了太多太多的情绪，如果说她的铁骨还能承受疲劳的话，她的心就需要休息了。

She therefore took leave of the abbess, and went to bed, softly rocked by the ideas of vengeance which the name of Kitty had naturally brought to her thoughts. She remembered that almost unlimited promise which the cardinal had given her if she succeeded in her enterprise. She had succeeded; d’Artagnan was then in her power!
因此，她告别了女修道院院长，上床睡觉了，凯蒂的名字自然而然地让她想到了复仇的想法，这让她轻轻地摇晃起来。她记得红衣主教给了她几乎无​​限的承诺，如果她的事业成功的话。她成功了；她成功了。达达尼昂那时就在她的权力之下了！

One thing alone frightened her; that was the remembrance of her husband, the Comte de la Fere, whom she had believed dead, or at least expatriated, and whom she found again in Athos-the best friend of d’Artagnan.
只有一件事让她感到害怕：那是对她丈夫德拉费尔伯爵的纪念，她相信他已经死了，或者至少已经流亡国外了，但她在阿多斯再次找到了他，他是达达尼昂最好的朋友。

But alas, if he was the friend of d’Artagnan, he must have lent him his assistance in all the proceedings by whose aid the queen had defeated the project of his Eminence; if he was the friend of d’Artagnan, he was the enemy of the cardinal; and she doubtless would succeed in involving him in the vengeance by which she hoped to destroy the young Musketeer.
但可惜的是，如果他是达达尼昂的朋友，他一定在所有的程序中向他提供了帮助，王后正是靠着他的帮助才击败了大人的计划。如果他是达达尼昂的朋友，那么他就是红衣主教的敌人；如果他是达达尼昂的朋友，那么他就是红衣主教的敌人。毫无疑问，她会成功地让他参与到她希望消灭年轻火枪手的复仇之中。

All these hopes were so many sweet thoughts for Milady; so, rocked by them, she soon fell asleep.
所有这些希望对米莱迪来说都是许多甜蜜的想法。于是，在他们的摇晃下，她很快就睡着了。

She was awakened by a soft voice which sounded at the foot of her bed. She opened her eyes, and saw the abbess, accompanied by a young woman with light hair and delicate complexion, who fixed upon her a look full of benevolent curiosity.
她是被床脚上传来的轻柔声音吵醒的。她睁开眼睛，看到女院长身边带着一位浅色头发、肤色娇嫩的年轻女子，用一种充满仁慈好奇的目光注视着她。

The face of the young woman was entirely unknown to her. Each examined the other with great attention, while exchanging the customary compliments; both were very handsome, but of quite different styles of beauty. Milady, however, smiled in observing that she excelled the young woman by far in her high air and aristocratic bearing. It is true that the habit of a novice, which the young woman wore, was not very advantageous in a contest of this kind.
她完全不认识这个年轻女子的脸。双方都非常注意地审视着对方，同时交换了习惯性的赞美。两人都非常英俊，但美的风格却截然不同。米莱迪却笑了，发现她的架势和贵族气度远远胜过这位年轻女子。确实，这位年轻女子所穿的新手习惯在这种比赛中并不是很有优势。

The abbess introduced them to each other. When this formality was ended, as her duties called her to chapel, she left the two young women alone.
女院长向他们介绍了彼此。当这个仪式结束后，由于她的职责要求她去教堂，她留下了这两个年轻女子。

The novice, seeing Milady in bed, was about to follow the example of the superior; but Milady stopped her.
新手看到米莱迪躺在床上，正要效仿上级的做法。但米莱迪阻止了她。

‘How, madame,’ said she, ‘I have scarcely seen you, and you already wish to deprive me of your company, upon which I had counted a little, I must confess, for the time I have to pass here?’
“怎么了，夫人，”她说，“我才刚见到你，你就想剥夺我与你的陪伴，我必须承认，在我必须经过这里的这段时间里，我一直指望着你的陪伴？”

‘No, madame,’ replied the novice, ‘only I thought I had chosen my time ill; you were asleep, you are fatigued.’
“不，女士，”新手回答道，“只是我以为我选择了错误的时间；你睡着了，你累了。

‘Well,’ said Milady, ‘what can those who sleep wish for—a happy awakening? This awakening you have given me; allow me, then, to enjoy it at my ease,’ and taking her hand, she drew her toward the armchair by the bedside.
“好吧，”米莱迪说，“那些睡着的人能祈求什么呢——快乐的醒来？你给了我这种觉醒；那么，就让我轻松地享受吧。”她拉着她的手，把她拉向床边的扶手椅。

The novice sat down.
新手坐了下来。

‘How unfortunate I am!’ said she; ‘I have been here six months without the shadow of recreation. You arrive, and your presence was likely to afford me delightful company; yet I expect, in all probability, to quit the convent at any moment.’
“我多么不幸啊！”她说。 “我在这里已经六个月了，没有任何娱乐的影子。你来了，你的出现很可能会给我带来愉快的陪伴；但我很可能随时都会离开修道院。”

‘How, you are going soon?’ asked Milady.
“怎么样，你很快就要走了吗？”米莱迪问道。

‘At least I hope so,’ said the novice, with an expression of joy which she made no effort to disguise.
“至少我希望如此，”新手说道，脸上毫不掩饰喜悦的表情。

‘I think I learned you had suffered persecutions from the cardinal,’ continued Milady; ‘that would have been another motive for sympathy between us.’
“我想我知道你受到了红衣主教的迫害，”米莱迪继续说道。 “这将是我们之间同情的另一个动机。”

‘What I have heard, then, from our good mother is true; you have likewise been a victim of that wicked priest.’
“那么，我从我们好母亲那里听到的都是真的；你同样也是那个邪恶牧师的受害者。

‘Hush!’ said Milady; ‘let us not, even here, speak thus of him. All my misfortunes arise from my having said nearly what you have said before a woman whom I thought my friend, and who betrayed me. Are you also the victim of a treachery?’
“嘘！”米莱迪说。 ‘即使在这里，我们也不要这样谈论他。我所有的不幸都源于我在一个我认为是朋友的女人面前说了几乎你所说的话，而她却背叛了我。你也是背叛的受害者吗？

‘No,’ said the novice, ‘but of my devotion—of a devotion to a woman I loved, for whom I would have laid down my life, for whom I would give it still.’
“不，”新手说，“而是我的忠诚——对我所爱的女人的忠诚，我愿意为她献出我的生命，我仍愿意为她付出生命。”

‘And who has abandoned you—is that it?’
“是谁抛弃了你——是这样吗？”

‘I have been sufficiently unjust to believe so; but during the last two or three days I have obtained proof to the contrary, for which I thank God—for it would have cost me very dear to think she had forgotten me. But you, madame, you appear to be free,’ continued the novice; ‘and if you were inclined to fly it only rests with yourself to do so.’
“我如此相信是非常不公正的；但在过去的两三天里，我得到了相反的证据，为此我感谢上帝——因为如果我认为她已经忘记了我，我就会付出很大的代价。但你，女士，你看起来是自由的，”新手继续说道。 “如果你想飞，那就只能由你自己决定了。”

‘Whither would you have me go, without friends, without money, in a part of France with which I am unacquainted, and where I have never been before?’
“你想让我去哪里，没有朋友，没有钱，去法国一个我不熟悉、我以前从未去过的地方？”

‘Oh,’ cried the novice, ‘as to friends, you would have them wherever you want, you appear so good and are so beautiful!’
“哦，”新手喊道，“至于朋友，你想要他们在哪里就可以有他们，你看起来那么好，那么美丽！”

‘That does not prevent,’ replied Milady, softening her smile so as to give it an angelic expression, ‘my being alone or being persecuted.’
“这并不能阻止，”米莱迪回答道，她的笑容变得柔和，呈现出天使般的表情，“我独自一人或受到迫害。”

‘Hear me,’ said the novice; ‘we must trust in heaven. There always comes a moment when the good you have done pleads your cause before God; and see, perhaps it is a happiness for you, humble and powerless as I am, that you have met with me, for if I leave this place, well-I have powerful friends, who, after having exerted themselves on my account, may also exert themselves for you.’
“听我说，”新手说。 ‘我们必须相信天堂。总会有这样的时刻，你所做的善事会在上帝面前为你辩护。你看，也许对你来说，你是一种幸福，尽管我是卑微而无能为力的人，但你能遇见我，因为如果我离开这个地方，那么——我有强大的朋友，他们在为我付出了努力之后，可能会也为你竭尽全力。

‘Oh, when I said I was alone,’ said Milady, hoping to make the novice talk by talking of herself, ‘it is not for want of friends in high places; but these friends themselves tremble before the cardinal. The queen herself does not dare to oppose the terrible minister. I have proof that her Majesty, notwithstanding her excellent heart, has more than once been obliged to abandon to the anger of his Eminence persons who had served her.’
“哦，当我说我孤身一人时，”米莱迪说道，希望通过谈论自己来让新手开口说话，“这并不是因为缺乏高层朋友；而是因为他们缺乏朋友。”但这些朋友自己却在红衣主教面前颤抖。女王本人也不敢反对这个可怕的大臣。我有证据表明，女王陛下尽管心地善良，却不止一次不得不抛弃曾为她服务的陛下的愤怒。”

‘Trust me, madame; the queen may appear to have abandoned those persons, but we must not put faith in appearances. The more they are persecuted, the more she thinks of them; and often, when they least expect it, they have proof of a kind remembrance.’
“相信我，夫人；女王可能看起来已经抛弃了那些人，但我们不能相信外表。他们越受迫害，她就越想念他们；通常，当他们最意想不到的时候，他们就会有善意的回忆。

‘Alas!’ said Milady, ‘I believe so; the queen is so good!’
“唉！”米莱迪说，“我相信是这样；女王真是太好了！”

‘Oh, you know her, then, that lovely and noble queen, that you speak of her thus!’ cried the novice, with enthusiasm.
“噢，那么，你认识她，那位可爱而高贵的王后，你这样谈论她！”新手热情地喊道。

‘That is to say,’ replied Milady, driven into her entrenchment, ‘that I have not the honor of knowing her personally; but I know a great number of her most intimate friends. I am acquainted with Monsieur de Putange; I met Monsieur Dujart in England; I know Monsieur de Treville.’
“也就是说，”米莱迪回答说，她被逼到了自己的壕沟里，“我没有荣幸认识她本人；但我认识她很多最亲密的朋友。我认识德·普坦热先生；我在英国遇见了杜雅特先生。我认识德特雷维尔先生。”

‘Monsieur de Treville!’ exclaimed the novice, ‘do you know Monsieur de Treville?’
“德特雷维尔先生！”新手喊道，“你认识德特雷维尔先生吗？”

‘Yes, perfectly well—intimately even.’
“是的，非常好——甚至非常好。”

‘The captain of the king’s Musketeers?’
“国王火枪手的队长？”

‘The captain of the king’s Musketeers.’
“国王火枪手的队长。”

‘Why, then, only see!’ cried the novice; ‘we shall soon be well acquainted, almost friends. If you know Monsieur de Treville, you must have visited him?’
“那你就看看吧！”新手喊道。 “我们很快就会很熟悉，几乎成为朋友。如果你认识德特雷维尔先生，你一定拜访过他吧？

‘Often!’ said Milady, who, having entered this track, and perceiving that falsehood succeeded, was determined to follow it to the end.
“经常如此！”米莱迪说，她进入了这条轨道，并意识到谎言成功了，决心将它坚持到底。

‘With him, then, you must have seen some of his Musketeers?’
“那么，和他一起，你一定见过他的一些火枪手吧？”

‘All those he is in the habit of receiving!’ replied Milady, for whom this conversation began to have a real interest.
“他习惯接待所有这些！”米莱迪回答道，她开始对这次谈话产生了真正的兴趣。

‘Name a few of those whom you know, and you will see if they are my friends.’
“说出一些你认识的人的名字，你就会知道他们是不是我的朋友。”

‘Well!’ said Milady, embarrassed, ‘I know Monsieur de Louvigny, Monsieur de Courtivron, Monsieur de Ferussac.’
“好吧！”米莱迪不好意思地说，“我认识德·卢维尼先生、德·库蒂弗隆先生、德·费鲁萨克先生。”

The novice let her speak, then seeing that she paused, she said, ‘Don’t you know a gentleman named Athos?’
见习生让她说话，见她停了下来，就说道：“你不认识一位名叫阿托斯的绅士吗？”

Milady became as pale as the sheets in which she was lying, and mistress as she was of herself, could not help uttering a cry, seizing the hand of the novice, and devouring her with looks.
米莱迪的脸色变得像她躺着的床单一样苍白，身为女主人的她忍不住发出一声叫喊，抓住了新手的手，用眼神吞噬了她。

‘What is the matter? Good God!’ asked the poor woman, ‘have I said anything that has wounded you?’
'什么事？天哪！”可怜的女人问道，“我说过什么伤害你的话了吗？”

‘No; but the name struck me, because I also have known that gentleman, and it appeared strange to me to meet with a person who appears to know him well.’
'不;但这个名字让我印象深刻，因为我也认识那位先生，而与一个似乎很了解他的人见面对我来说似乎很奇怪。

‘Oh, yes, very well; not only him, but some of his friends, Messieurs Porthos and Aramis!’
哦，是的，很好；不仅是他，还有他的一些朋友，波托斯先生和阿拉米斯先生！”

‘Indeed! you know them likewise? I know them,’ cried Milady, who began to feel a chill penetrate her heart.
'的确！你也认识他们吗？我认识他们。”米莱迪喊道，她的心开始感到一阵寒意。

‘Well, if you know them, you know that they are good and free companions. Why do you not apply to them, if you stand in need of help?’
“好吧，如果你了解他们，你就会知道他们是优秀而自由的伙伴。如果你需要帮助，为什么不向他们申请呢？

‘That is to say,’ stammered Milady, ‘I am not really very intimate with any of them. I know them from having heard one of their friends, Monsieur d’Artagnan, say a great deal about them.’
“也就是说，”米莱迪结结巴巴地说，“我和他们中的任何一个人都不是很亲密。我之所以认识他们，是因为听他们的一位朋友达达尼昂先生说了很多关于他们的事。

‘You know Monsieur d’Artagnan!’ cried the novice, in her turn seizing the hands of Milady and devouring her with her eyes.
“你认识达达尼昂先生！”新手叫道，她也抓住了米莱迪的双手，用目光吞噬着她。

Then remarking the strange expression of Milady’s countenance, she said, ‘Pardon me, madame; you know him by what title?’
然后她注意到米莱迪脸上奇怪的表情，说道：“请原谅，夫人；请原谅我。”你知道他叫什么名字？

‘Why,’ replied Milady, embarrassed, ‘why, by the title of friend.’
“为什么，”米莱迪尴尬地回答，“为什么，以朋友的名义。”

‘You deceive me, madame,’ said the novice; ‘you have been his mistress!’
“你欺骗了我，女士，”新手说道。 “你曾经是他的情妇！”

‘It is you who have been his mistress, madame!’ cried Milady, in her turn.
“夫人，你才是他的情妇！”轮到米莱迪喊道。

‘I?’ said the novice.
“我？”新手问道。

‘Yes, you! I know you now. You are Madame Bonacieux!’
'是的，就是你！我现在认识你了。你是博纳希厄夫人！

The young woman drew back, filled with surprise and terror.
年轻女子向后退了一步，心中充满了惊讶和恐惧。

‘Oh, do not deny it! Answer!’ continued Milady.
‘哦，别否认！回答！”米莱迪继续说道。

‘Well, yes, madame,’ said the novice, ‘Are we rivals?’
“嗯，是的，女士，”新手说，“我们是竞争对手吗？”

The countenance of Milady was illumined by so savage a joy that under any other circumstances Mme. Bonacieux would have fled in terror; but she was absorbed by jealousy.
米拉迪夫人的脸上洋溢着一种狂野的喜悦，在任何其他情况下，夫人。博纳希厄可能会惊恐地逃走。但她却被嫉妒所吸引。

‘Speak, madame!’ resumed Mme. Bonacieux, with an energy of which she might not have been believed capable. ‘Have you been, or are you, his mistress?’
“请说，夫人！”夫人继续说道。博纳希厄的精力充沛，人们可能不相信她有这样的能力。 “你曾经是，还是现在，他的情妇？”

‘Oh, no!’ cried Milady, with an accent that admitted no doubt of her truth. ‘Never, never!’
“噢，不！”米莱迪喊道，她的口音无疑表明了她的真实性。 “从来没有，从来没有！”

‘I believe you,’ said Mme. Bonacieux; ‘but why, then, did you cry out so?’
“我相信你，”夫人说。博纳西厄； “那么，你为什么哭得这么厉害呢？”

‘Do you not understand?’ said Milady, who had already overcome her agitation and recovered all her presence of mind.
“你不明白吗？”米莱迪说道，她已经克服了激动，恢复了平静。

‘How can I understand? I know nothing.’
‘我怎么能明白呢？我什么都不知道。'

‘Can you not understand that Monsieur d’Artagnan, being my friend, might take me into his confidence?’
“你难道不明白达达尼昂先生作为我的朋友，可能会信任我吗？”

‘Truly?’
“真的吗？”

‘Do you not perceive that I know all—your abduction from the little house at St. Germain, his despair, that of his friends, and their useless inquiries up to this moment? How could I help being astonished when, without having the least expectation of such a thing, I meet you face to face—you, of whom we have so often spoken together, you whom he loves with all his soul, you whom he had taught me to love before I had seen you! Ah, dear Constance, I have found you, then; I see you at last!’
“你难道没有意识到我知道一切吗——你被从圣日耳曼的小房子里绑架了，他的绝望，他的朋友们的绝望，以及他们迄今为止无用的询问？”当我毫无期待地面对面见到你时，我怎能不感到惊讶——我们经常一起谈论的你，他全心全意爱着的你，他教导过的你。我在见到你之前就已经爱上了你！啊，亲爱的康斯坦斯，那么我找到你了；我终于见到你了！

And Milady stretched out her arms to Mme. Bonacieux, who, convinced by what she had just said, saw nothing in this woman whom an instant before she had believed her rival but a sincere and devoted friend.
米莱迪向夫人伸出双臂。博纳希厄被她刚才所说的话说服了，她在这个她刚才还相信她的对手的女人身上什么也没有看到，而是一个真诚而忠诚的朋友。

‘Oh, pardon me, pardon me!’ cried she, sinking upon the shoulders of Milady. ‘Pardon me, I love him so much!’
“哦，请原谅我，请原谅我！”她喊道，倒在了米莱迪的肩膀上。 “对不起，我非常爱他！”

These two women held each other for an instant in a close embrace. Certainly, if Milady’s strength had been equal to her hatred, Mme. Bonacieux would never have left that embrace alive. But not being able to stifle her, she smiled upon her.
两个女人瞬间紧紧地拥抱在一起。当然，如果米莱迪的力量等于她的仇恨，夫人。博纳西厄永远不会活着离开这个拥抱。但她无法压制住她，只是对她微笑。

‘Oh, you beautiful, good little creature!’ said Milady. ‘How delighted I am to have found you! Let me look at you!’ and while saying these words, she absolutely devoured her by her looks. ‘Oh, yes it is you indeed! From what he has told me, I know you now. I recognize you perfectly.’
“噢，你这个美丽又善良的小动物！”米莱迪说。 ‘找到你我是多么高兴啊！让我看看你！”说这句话的时候，她完全被她的容貌吞噬了。 ‘哦，是的，确实是你！从他告诉我的情况来看，我现在认识你了。我完全认得你。

The poor young woman could not possibly suspect what frightful cruelty was behind the rampart of that pure brow, behind those brilliant eyes in which she read nothing but interest and compassion.
这位可怜的年轻女子不可能怀疑在那纯洁的额头的壁垒后面，在那双明亮的眼睛后面，她除了兴趣和同情之外什么也看不到什么可怕的残忍。

‘Then you know what I have suffered,’ said Mme. Bonacieux, ‘since he has told you what he has suffered; but to suffer for him is happiness.’
“那你知道我受过什么苦了，”夫人说。博纳希厄，“既然他告诉了你他所受的苦难；但为他受苦就是幸福。”

Milady replied mechanically, ‘Yes, that is happiness.’ She was thinking of something else.
米莱迪机械地回答：“是的，那就是幸福。”她在想别的事情。

‘And then,’ continued Mme. Bonacieux, ‘my punishment is drawing to a close. Tomorrow, this evening, perhaps, I shall see him again; and then the past will no longer exist.’
“然后，”夫人继续说道。博纳西厄，‘我的惩罚即将结束。明天，也许今天晚上，我会再次见到他；然后过去将不复存在。

‘This evening?’ asked Milady, roused from her reverie by these words. ‘What do you mean? Do you expect news from him?’
“今天晚上？”米莱迪被这句话从沉思中惊醒，问道。 '你是什么意思？你期待他的消息吗？

‘I expect himself.’
“我期待他自己。”

‘Himself? D’Artagnan here?’
‘他自己？达达尼昂在这里吗？

‘Himself!’
“他自己！”

‘But that’s impossible! He is at the siege of La Rochelle with the cardinal. He will not return till after the taking of the city.’
‘但是那是不可能的！他与红衣主教一起围攻拉罗谢尔。直到占领这座城市之后他才会回来。”

‘Ah, you fancy so! But is there anything impossible for my d’Artagnan, the noble and loyal gentleman?’
‘啊，你也这么想啊！但对于我的达达尼昂这位高贵而忠诚的绅士来说，还有什么不可能的事吗？

‘Oh, I cannot believe you!’
“哦，我简直不敢相信你！”

‘Well, read, then!’ said the unhappy young woman, in the excess of her pride and joy, presenting a letter to Milady.
“那么，读吧！”这位不幸的年轻女子带着无比自豪和喜悦的心情说道，同时递给米莱迪一封信。

‘The writing of Madame de Chevreuse!’ said Milady to herself. ‘Ah, I always thought there was some secret understanding in that quarter!’ And she greedily read the following few lines:
“这是谢夫勒斯夫人写的！”米莱迪自言自语道。 “啊，我总以为那一刻有什么隐秘的默契！”她贪婪地读着下面几行字：

My Dear Child, Hold yourself ready. OUR FRIEND will see you soon, and he will only see you to release you from that imprisonment in which your safety required you should be concealed. Prepare, then, for your departure, and never despair of us.
我亲爱的孩子，做好准备。我们的朋友很快就会见到你，他见到你只是为了把你从监禁中释放出来，为了你的安全，你必须隐藏在其中。那么，准备好离开吧，永远不要对我们失望。

Our charming Gascon has just proved himself as brave and faithful as ever. Tell him that certain parties are grateful for the warning he has given.
我们迷人的加斯科涅刚刚证明了自己一如既往的勇敢和忠诚。告诉他某些方面对他发出的警告表示感谢。

‘Yes, yes,’ said Milady; ‘the letter is precise. Do you know what that warning was?’
“是的，是的，”米莱迪说。 ‘这封信是准确的。你知道那个警告是什么吗？

‘No, I only suspect he has warned the queen against some fresh machinations of the cardinal.’
“不，我只是怀疑他警告女王不要提防红衣主教的一些新阴谋。”

‘Yes, that’s it, no doubt!’ said Milady, returning the letter to Mme. Bonacieux, and letting her head sink pensively upon her bosom.
“是的，就是这样，毫无疑问！”米拉迪一边说，一边把信还给了夫人。博纳希厄把头埋在怀里，若有所思。

At that moment they heard the gallop of a horse.
就在这时，他们听到了马蹄声。

‘Oh!’ cried Mme. Bonacieux, darting to the window, ‘can it be he?’
“噢！”夫人叫道。博纳西厄冲到窗前，“是他吗？”

Milady remained still in bed, petrified by surprise; so many unexpected things happened to her all at once that for the first time she was at a loss.
米莱迪仍然躺在床上一动不动，她惊呆了。这么多意想不到的事情一下子发生在她身上，让她第一次不知所措。

‘He, he!’ murmured she; ‘can it be he?’ And she remained in bed with her eyes fixed.
“他，他！”她低声说道。 “会是他吗？”她仍然躺在床上，眼睛盯着。

‘Alas, no!’ said Mme. Bonacieux; ‘it is a man I don’t know, although he seems to be coming here. Yes, he checks his pace; he stops at the gate; he rings.’
“唉，不！”夫人说。博纳西厄； “这是一个我不认识的人，虽然他似乎要来这里。是的，他检查了自己的步伐；他停在门口；他响了。

Milady sprang out of bed.
米莱迪从床上跳了起来。

‘You are sure it is not he?’ said she.
“你确定不是他？”她说。

‘Yes, yes, very sure!’
“是的，是的，非常肯定！”

‘Perhaps you did not see well.’
“也许你没看清楚。”

‘Oh, if I were to see the plume of his hat, the end of his cloak, I should know HIM!’
“哦，如果我看到他帽子上的羽毛，他斗篷的末端，我就应该认出他了！”

Milady was dressing herself all the time.
米莱迪一直在打扮自己。

‘Yes, he has entered.’
“是的，他进来了。”

‘It is for you or me!’
“这是为了你或我！”

‘My God, how agitated you seem!’
“天啊，你看起来多么激动啊！”

‘Yes, I admit it. I have not your confidence; I fear the cardinal.’
‘是的，我承认。我没有你的信任；我害怕红衣主教。

‘Hush!’ said Mme. Bonacieux; ‘somebody is coming.’
“嘘！”夫人说。博纳西厄； “有人来了。”

Immediately the door opened, and the superior entered.
门立刻打开，上级进来了。

‘Did you come from Boulogne?’ demanded she of Milady.
“你是从布洛涅来的吗？”她问米莱迪。

‘Yes,’ replied she, trying to recover her self-possession. ‘Who wants me?’
“是的，”她回答道，试图恢复镇定。 “谁想要我？”

‘A man who will not tell his name, but who comes from the cardinal.’
“一个不愿透露自己名字的人，但他来自红衣主教。”

‘And who wishes to speak with me?’
“谁愿意和我说话？”

‘Who wishes to speak to a lady recently come from Boulogne.’
“谁想和一位最近来自布洛涅的女士说话。”

‘Then let him come in, if you please.’
“那就让他进来吧，如果你愿意的话。”

‘Oh, my God, my God!’ cried Mme. Bonacieux. ‘Can it be bad news?’
“噢，天啊，天啊！”夫人叫道。博纳西厄。 “这会是坏消息吗？”

‘I fear it.’
“我害怕它。”

‘I will leave you with this stranger; but as soon as he is gone, if you will permit me, I will return.’
“我会把你留给这个陌生人；但他一走，如果你允许的话，我就会回来。”

‘PERMIT you? I BESEECH you.’
‘允许你吗？我恳求你。

The superior and Mme. Bonacieux retired.
上级和夫人。博纳希厄退休了。

Milady remained alone, with her eyes fixed upon the door. An instant later, the jingling of spurs was heard upon the stairs, steps drew near, the door opened, and a man appeared.
米莱迪独自一人，眼睛盯着门。过了一会儿，楼梯上传来马刺的叮当声，脚步声越来越近，门打开了，一个男人出现了。

Milady uttered a cry of joy; this man was the Comte de Rochefort—the demoniacal tool of his Eminence.
米莱迪高兴地叫了一声。这个人就是罗什福尔伯爵——他的恶魔工具。

62 TWO VARIETIES OF DEMONS
第62章 两种恶魔

‘Ah,’ cried Milady and Rochefort together, ‘it is you!’
“啊，”米莱迪和罗什福尔一起喊道，“是你！”

‘Yes, it is I.’
“是的，是我。”

‘And you come?’ asked Milady.
“你也来吗？”米莱迪问道。

‘From La Rochelle; and you?’
“来自拉罗谢尔；你呢？'

‘From England.’
'来自英国。'

‘Buckingham?’
'白金汉？'

‘Dead or desperately wounded, as I left without having been able to hear anything of him. A fanatic has just assassinated him.’
“死了或者受了重伤，我离开时没有听到他的任何消息。一名狂热分子刚刚刺杀了他。”

‘Ah,’ said Rochefort, with a smile; ‘this is a fortunate chance—one that will delight his Eminence! Have you informed him of it?’
“啊，”罗什福尔微笑着说道。 “这是一个幸运的机会——一个会让陛下高兴的机会！”你通知他了吗？

‘I wrote to him from Boulogne. But what brings you here?’
“我从布洛涅给他写信。但是什么让你来到这里呢？

‘His Eminence was uneasy, and sent me to find you.’
“陛下不安，派我来找您。”

‘I only arrived yesterday.’
“我昨天才到的。”

‘And what have you been doing since yesterday?’
“从昨天起你都在做什么？”

‘I have not lost my time.’
“我没有浪费时间。”

‘Oh, I don’t doubt that.’
“哦，我对此毫不怀疑。”

‘Do you know whom I have encountered here?’
“你知道我在这里遇到了谁吗？”

‘No.’
'不。'

‘Guess.’
'猜测。'

‘How can I?’
'我怎么能够？'

‘That young woman whom the queen took out of prison.’
“女王从监狱里带出来的那个年轻女子。”

‘The mistress of that fellow d’Artagnan?’
“达达尼昂那个家伙的情妇？”

‘Yes; Madame Bonacieux, with whose retreat the cardinal was unacquainted.’
'是的;博纳瑟夫人，红衣主教不熟悉她的隐居处。

‘Well, well,’ said Rochefort, ‘here is a chance which may pair off with the other! Monsieur Cardinal is indeed a privileged man!’
“好吧，好吧，”罗什福尔说，“这是一个可以与另一个配对的机会！红衣主教先生确实是一个有特权的人！

‘Imagine my astonishment,’ continued Milady, ‘when I found myself face to face with this woman!’
“想象一下，当我发现自己面对面面对这个女人时，”米莱迪继续说道，“我有多惊讶！”

‘Does she know you?’
“她认识你吗？”

‘No.’
'不。'

‘Then she looks upon you as a stranger?’
“那么她就把你当作陌生人了？”

Milady smiled. ‘I am her best friend.’
米莱迪笑了。 “我是她最好的朋友。”

‘Upon my honor,’ said Rochefort, ‘it takes you, my dear countess, to perform such miracles!’
“以我的名誉担保，”罗什福尔说道，“我亲爱的伯爵夫人，只有你才能创造这样的奇迹！”

‘And it is well I can, Chevalier,’ said Milady, ‘for do you know what is going on here?’
“我能做到，很好，骑士，”米莱迪说，“你知道这里发生了什么事吗？”

‘No.’
'不。'

‘They will come for her tomorrow or the day after, with an order from the queen.’
“按照女王的命令，他们明天或后天就会来找她。”

‘Indeed! And who?’
'的确！还有谁？'

‘d’Artagnan and his friends.’
“达达尼昂和他的朋友们。”

‘Indeed, they will go so far that we shall be obliged to send them to the Bastille.’
“事实上，他们会走得太远，我们不得不把他们送到巴士底狱。”

‘Why is it not done already?’
“为什么还没有完成？”

‘What would you? The cardinal has a weakness for these men which I cannot comprehend.’
'你会怎么？红衣主教对这些人有一个我无法理解的弱点。

‘Indeed!’
'的确！'

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘Well, then, tell him this, Rochefort. Tell him that our conversation at the inn of the Red Dovecot was overheard by these four men; tell him that after his departure one of them came up to me and took from me by violence the safe-conduct which he had given me; tell him they warned Lord de Winter of my journey to England; that this time they nearly foiled my mission as they foiled the affair of the studs; tell him that among these four men two only are to be feared—d’Artagnan and Athos; tell him that the third, Aramis, is the lover of Madame de Chevreuse—he may be left alone, we know his secret, and it may be useful; as to the fourth, Porthos, he is a fool, a simpleton, a blustering booby, not worth troubling himself about.’
“好吧，那么，告诉他这个，罗什福尔。告诉他我们在红鸽客栈的谈话被这四个人偷听了；告诉他，他离开后，他们中的一个人找到我，用暴力夺走了他给我的安全通行证；告诉他，他们警告德温特勋爵我去英国的旅程；这次他们几乎挫败了我的任务，就像他们挫败了螺柱事件一样；告诉他，在这四个人中，只有两个人值得害怕——达达尼昂和阿托斯；告诉他，第三个，阿拉米斯，是谢夫勒斯夫人的情人——他可能会独自一人，我们知道他的秘密，这可能有用；至于第四个，波尔托斯，他是个傻瓜，一个傻瓜，一个狂妄的骗子，不值得自己为之烦恼。

‘But these four men must be now at the siege of La Rochelle?’
“但这四个人现在肯定正在围攻拉罗谢尔吧？”

‘I thought so, too; but a letter which Madame Bonacieux has received from Madame the Constable, and which she has had the imprudence to show me, leads me to believe that these four men, on the contrary, are on the road hither to take her away.’
'我也是这么想;但是，博纳瑟夫人从警察夫人那里收到了一封信，她鲁莽地把这封信给了我看，这让我相信这四个人恰恰相反，正在路上把她带走。

‘The devil! What’s to be done?’
'恶魔！该怎么办？

‘What did the cardinal say about me?’
“红衣主教对我说了些什么？”

‘I was to take your dispatches, written or verbal, and return by post; and when he shall know what you have done, he will advise what you have to do.’
“我要接收你的书面或口头急件，然后邮寄回来；当他知道你做了什么时，他会建议你必须做什么。

‘I must, then, remain here?’
“那么我必须留在这里吗？”

‘Here, or in the neighborhood.’
“在这里，或者在附近。”

‘You cannot take me with you?’
“你不能带我一起去吗？”

‘No, the order is imperative. Near the camp you might be recognized; and your presence, you must be aware, would compromise the cardinal.’
“不，命令是必须的。在营地附近你可能会被认出来；你必须意识到，你的存在会危及红衣主教的利益。

‘Then I must wait here, or in the neighborhood?’
“那我必须在这里等，还是在附近等？”

‘Only tell me beforehand where you will wait for intelligence from the cardinal; let me know always where to find you.’
“只要事先告诉我你将在哪里等待红衣主教的情报；让我知道在哪里可以找到你。

‘Observe, it is probable that I may not be able to remain here.’
“你看，我很可能无法留在这里。”

‘Why?’
'为什么？'

‘You forget that my enemies may arrive at any minute.’
“你忘了我的敌人随时可能到来。”

‘That’s true; but is this little woman, then, to escape his Eminence?’
'这是真的;那么，这个小女人是为了躲避大人吗？

‘Bah!’ said Milady, with a smile that belonged only to herself; ‘you forget that I am her best friend.’
“呸！”米莱迪说道，脸上露出了只属于她自己的微笑。 “你忘了我是她最好的朋友。”

‘Ah, that’s true! I may then tell the cardinal, with respect to this little woman—‘
‘啊，确实如此！然后我可以告诉红衣主教，关于这个小女人——”

‘That he may be at ease.’
“这样他就可以安心了。”

‘Is that all?’
'这就是全部？'

‘He will know what that means.’
“他会知道这意味着什么。”

‘He will guess, at least. Now, then, what had I better do?’
“至少他会猜测。那么，现在我最好做什么呢？

‘Return instantly. It appears to me that the news you bear is worth the trouble of a little diligence.’
‘立即返回。在我看来，你所带来的消息值得花点功夫。

‘My chaise broke down coming into Lilliers.’
“我的躺椅在进入利利尔斯时坏了。”

‘Capital!’
'首都！'

‘What, CAPITAL?’
“什么，资本？”

‘Yes, I want your chaise.’
“是的，我想要你的躺椅。”

‘And how shall I travel, then?’
“那我该如何旅行呢？”

‘On horseback.’
'在马背上。'

‘You talk very comfortably,—a hundred and eighty leagues!’
“你说话很舒服——一百八十里！”

‘What’s that?’
'那是什么？'

‘One can do it! Afterward?’
‘一个人就能做到！之后？'

‘Afterward? Why, in passing through Lilliers you will send me your chaise, with an order to your servant to place himself at my disposal.’
'之后？嗨，在经过利利尔斯时，你会把你的马车送给我，并命令你的仆人听从我的指挥。

‘Well.’
'出色地。'

‘You have, no doubt, some order from the cardinal about you?’
“毫无疑问，你接到了红衣主教关于你的命令？”

‘I have my FULL POWER.’
“我有我的全部力量。”

‘Show it to the abbess, and tell her that someone will come and fetch me, either today or tomorrow, and that I am to follow the person who presents himself in your name.’
“把它拿给女院长看，告诉她今天或明天会有人来接我，我要跟踪那个以你的名义出现的人。”

‘Very well.’
'很好。'

‘Don’t forget to treat me harshly in speaking of me to the abbess.’
“当女院长谈论我时，别忘了严厉地对待我。”

‘To what purpose?’
“目的是什么？”

‘I am a victim of the cardinal. It is necessary to inspire confidence in that poor little Madame Bonacieux.’
“我是红衣主教的受害者。有必要激发对可怜的小博纳瑟夫人的信心。

‘That’s true. Now, will you make me a report of all that has happened?’
'这是真的。现在，你可以向我报告所发生的一切吗？

‘Why, I have related the events to you. You have a good memory; repeat what I have told you. A paper may be lost.’
‘哎呀，我已经把这件事告诉你了。你的记忆力很好；重复我告诉过你的话。一张纸可能会丢失。

‘You are right; only let me know where to find you that I may not run needlessly about the neighborhood.’
'你是对的;只要让我知道在哪里可以找到你，这样我就不会在附近不必要地跑来跑去了。

‘That’s correct; wait!’
‘没错；等待！'

‘Do you want a map?’
“你想要地图吗？”

‘Oh, I know this country marvelously!’
“哦，我非常了解这个国家！”

‘You? When were you here?’
'你？你什么时候来的？

‘I was brought up here.’
“我是在这里长大的。”

‘Truly?’
“真的吗？”

‘It is worth something, you see, to have been brought up somewhere.’
“你看，在某个地方长大是有价值的。”

‘You will wait for me, then?’
“那你会等我吗？”

‘Let me reflect a little! Ay, that will do—at Armentieres.’
‘让我反思一下！嗯，那就行了——在阿芒蒂埃。”

‘Where is that Armentieres?’
“那个阿尔芒蒂埃在哪里？”

‘A little town on the Lys; I shall only have to cross the river, and I shall be in a foreign country.’
“里斯河畔的一座小镇；我只要过河，就到了异国他乡。

‘Capital! but it is understood you will only cross the river in case of danger.’
'首都！但据了解，只有在遇到危险时，你才会过河。”

‘That is well understood.’
“这很好理解。”

‘And in that case, how shall I know where you are?’
“那么，我怎么知道你在哪里呢？”

‘You do not want your lackey?’
“你不想要你的跟班吗？”

‘Is he a sure man?’
“他是个可靠的人吗？”

‘To the proof.’
“为了证明。”

‘Give him to me. Nobody knows him. I will leave him at the place I quit, and he will conduct you to me.’
‘把他交给我吧。没有人认识他。我把他留在我离开的地方，他会把你带到我身边。

‘And you say you will wait for me at Armentieres?’
“你说你会在阿尔芒蒂埃等我？”

‘At Armentieres.’
“在阿尔芒蒂埃。”

‘Write that name on a bit of paper, lest I should forget it. There is nothing compromising in the name of a town. Is it not so?’
“把这个名字写在一张纸上，免得我忘记了。”城镇的名字没有任何妥协之处。不是这样吗？

‘Eh, who knows? Never mind,’ said Milady, writing the name on half a sheet of paper; ‘I will compromise myself.’
‘呃，谁知道呢？没关系，”米莱迪一边说，一边把名字写在半张纸上。 “我会妥协。”

‘Well,’ said Rochefort, taking the paper from Milady, folding it, and placing it in the lining of his hat, ‘you may be easy. I will do as children do, for fear of losing the paper—repeat the name along the route. Now, is that all?’
“好吧，”罗什福尔说，从米莱迪手中接过那张纸，折叠起来，放在帽子里，“你可以轻松一点。”我会像孩子一样，生怕丢了纸——沿途重复名字。现在，就这些了吗？

‘I believe so.’
'我相信是这样。'

‘Let us see: Buckingham dead or grievously wounded; your conversation with the cardinal overheard by the four Musketeers; Lord de Winter warned of your arrival at Portsmouth; d’Artagnan and Athos to the Bastille; Aramis the lover of Madame de Chevreuse; Porthos an ass; Madame Bonacieux found again; to send you the chaise as soon as possible; to place my lackey at your disposal; to make you out a victim of the cardinal in order that the abbess may entertain no suspicion; Armentieres, on the banks of the Lys. Is that all, then?’
“让我们看看：白金汉死了或受重伤；你和红衣主教的谈话被四个火枪手偷听了；德温特勋爵警告您抵达朴茨茅斯；达达尼昂和阿托斯到巴士底狱；阿拉米斯（Aramis），谢夫勒斯夫人的情人；波托斯是一头驴；博纳瑟夫人又找到了；尽快给您送来躺椅；让我的走狗听从你的调遣；让你成为红衣主教的受害者，这样女院长就不会受到怀疑；阿门蒂埃 (Armentieres)，位于里斯河畔。那么就这些了吗？

‘In truth, my dear Chevalier, you are a miracle of memory. A PROPOS, add one thing—‘
“事实上，我亲爱的骑士，你是记忆力的奇迹。提案，添加一件事——‘

‘What?’
'什么？'

‘I saw some very pretty woods which almost touch the convent garden. Say that I am permitted to walk in those woods. Who knows? Perhaps I shall stand in need of a back door for retreat.’
“我看到一些非常漂亮的树林，几乎与修道院花园相连。说我被允许在那些树林里散步。谁知道？也许我需要一个后门来撤退。

‘You think of everything.’
“你什么都想到了。”

‘And you forget one thing.’
“你忘记了一件事。”

‘What?’
'什么？'

‘To ask me if I want money.’
“问我要不要钱。”

‘That’s true. How much do you want?’
'这是真的。你想要多少？'

‘All you have in gold.’
“你拥有的一切都是黄金。”

‘I have five hundred pistoles, or thereabouts.’
“我有五百皮斯托尔左右。”

‘I have as much. With a thousand pistoles one may face everything. Empty your pockets.’
‘我也有那么多了。有了一千个皮斯托尔，一个人就可以面对一切。掏空你的口袋。

‘There.’
'那里。'

‘Right. And you go—‘
'正确的。然后你就去——”

‘In an hour—time to eat a morsel, during which I shall send for a post horse.’
“一个小时后——吃点东西的时间到了，在此期间我将派人去叫一匹邮马。”

‘Capital! Adieu, Chevalier.’
'首都！再见，骑士。

‘Adieu, Countess.’
“再见，伯爵夫人。”

‘Commend me to the cardinal.’
“向红衣主教推荐我。”

‘Commend me to Satan.’
“向撒旦推荐我。”

Milady and Rochefort exchanged a smile and separated. An hour afterward Rochefort set out at a grand gallop; five hours after that he passed through Arras.
米莱迪和罗什福尔相视一笑，分开。一小时后，罗什福尔开始了一次盛大的驰骋。五小时后，他经过阿拉斯。

Our readers already know how he was recognized by d’Artagnan, and how that recognition by inspiring fear in the four Musketeers had given fresh activity to their journey.
我们的读者已经知道他是如何被达达尼昂认出的，以及这种认出如何通过激发四个火枪手的恐惧而给他们的旅程带来新鲜的活力。

63 THE DROP OF WATER
63 水滴

Rochefort had scarcely departed when Mme. Bonacieux re-entered. She found Milady with a smiling countenance.
罗什福尔夫人刚离开，博纳希厄重新进来。她发现米莱迪面带微笑。

‘Well,’ said the young woman, ‘what you dreaded has happened. This evening, or tomorrow, the cardinal will send someone to take you away.’
“好吧，”年轻女子说道，“你担心的事情发生了。”今天晚上，或者明天，红衣主教会派人来接你走。”

‘Who told you that, my dear?’ asked Milady.
“谁告诉你的，亲爱的？”米莱迪问道。

‘I heard it from the mouth of the messenger himself.’
“我是从使者本人口中听到的。”

‘Come and sit down close to me,’ said Milady.
“过来坐到我身边吧，”米莱迪说。

‘Here I am.’
'我在这里。'

‘Wait till I assure myself that nobody hears us.’
“等我确信没有人听到我们的声音。”

‘Why all these precautions?’
“为什么要采取这些预防措施？”

‘You shall know.’
“你会知道的。”

Milady arose, went to the door, opened it, looked in the corridor, and then returned and seated herself close to Mme. Bonacieux.
米莱迪起身，走到门口，打开门，看了看走廊，然后回来，坐在夫人身边。博纳西厄。

‘Then,’ said she, ‘he has well played his part.’
“那么，”她说，“他很好地扮演了自己的角色。”

‘Who has?’
'谁有？'

‘He who just now presented himself to the abbess as a messenger from the cardinal.’
“他刚才以红衣主教的使者身份向女院长介绍了自己。”

‘It was, then, a part he was playing?’
“那么，这就是他所扮演的角色？”

‘Yes, my child.’
“是的，我的孩子。”

‘That man, then, was not—‘
“那么，那个人不是——”

‘That man,’ said Milady, lowering her voice, ‘is my brother.’
“那个人，”米莱迪压低声音说道，“是我的兄弟。”

‘Your brother!’ cried Mme. Bonacieux.
“你的兄弟！”夫人喊道。博纳西厄。

‘No one must know this secret, my dear, but yourself. If you reveal it to anyone in the world, I shall be lost, and perhaps yourself likewise.’
“亲爱的，除了你自己之外，任何人都不能知道这个秘密。如果你把它透露给世界上的任何人，我就会迷失方向，也许你自己也会迷失方向。”

‘Oh, my God!’
'我的天啊！'

‘Listen. This is what has happened: My brother, who was coming to my assistance to take me away by force if it were necessary, met with the emissary of the cardinal, who was coming in search of me. He followed him. At a solitary and retired part of the road he drew his sword, and required the messenger to deliver up to him the papers of which he was the bearer. The messenger resisted; my brother killed him.’
'听。事情是这样的：我的兄弟来协助我，如果有必要的话，他会用武力带走我，他遇到了来寻找我的红衣主教的特使。他跟着他。在路边一个僻静的地方，他拔出了剑，要求信使将他所持有的文件交给他。使者反抗；我哥哥杀了他。”

‘Oh!’ said Mme. Bonacieux, shuddering.
“哦！”夫人说。博纳希厄，颤抖着。

‘Remember, that was the only means. Then my brother determined to substitute cunning for force. He took the papers, and presented himself here as the emissary of the cardinal, and in an hour or two a carriage will come to take me away by the orders of his Eminence.’
‘记住，这是唯一的手段。于是我哥哥决定用狡猾代替武力。他拿着文件，以红衣主教的特使的身份来到这里，一两个小时后，按照主教阁下的命令，一辆马车就会来接我离开。

‘I understand. It is your brother who sends this carriage.’
'我明白。这辆马车是你哥哥送来的。

‘Exactly; but that is not all. That letter you have received, and which you believe to be from Madame de Chevreuse—‘
'确切地;但这还不是全部。你收到的那封信，你相信是德·谢夫勒斯夫人写来的——”

‘Well?’
'出色地？'

‘It is a forgery.’
“这是伪造的。”

‘How can that be?’
'怎么可能？'

‘Yes, a forgery; it is a snare to prevent your making any resistance when they come to fetch you.’
“是的，伪造的；这是一个陷阱，可以防止你在他们来抓你时做出任何抵抗。

‘But it is d’Artagnan that will come.’
“但达达尼昂会来。”

‘Do not deceive yourself. D’Artagnan and his friends are detained at the siege of La Rochelle.’
‘别欺骗自己了。达达尼昂和他的朋友在拉罗谢尔围攻中被拘留。

‘How do you know that?’
'你怎么知道？'

‘My brother met some emissaries of the cardinal in the uniform of Musketeers. You would have been summoned to the gate; you would have believed yourself about to meet friends; you would have been abducted, and conducted back to Paris.’
“我哥哥遇到了一些穿着火枪手制服的红衣主教的使者。你会被叫到门口；你会相信自己即将见到朋友；你会被绑架并带回巴黎。

‘Oh, my God! My senses fail me amid such a chaos of iniquities. I feel, if this continues,’ said Mme. Bonacieux, raising her hands to her forehead, ‘I shall go mad!’
'我的天啊！在如此混乱的罪恶之中，我失去了知觉。我觉得，如果这种情况持续下去，”女士说。博纳希厄将双手举到额头上，“我会发疯的！”

‘Stop—‘
'停止-'

‘What?’
'什么？'

‘I hear a horse’s steps; it is my brother setting off again. I should like to offer him a last salute. Come!’
‘我听到马蹄声；哥哥又出发了。我想向他致以最后的敬意。来！'

Milady opened the window, and made a sign to Mme. Bonacieux to join her. The young woman complied.
米莱迪打开窗户，向夫人做了个手势。博纳西厄加入了她。年轻女子答应了。

Rochefort passed at a gallop.
罗什福尔疾驰而过。

‘Adieu, brother!’ cried Milady.
“再见，兄弟！”米莱迪喊道。

The chevalier raised his head, saw the two young women, and without stopping, waved his hand in a friendly way to Milady.
骑士抬起头，看到了两个年轻女子，没有停留，友好地向米莱迪挥了挥手。

‘The good George!’ said she, closing the window with an expression of countenance full of affection and melancholy. And she resumed her seat, as if plunged in reflections entirely personal.
“好乔治！”她说着关上了窗户，脸上的表情充满了爱意和忧郁。她又回到座位上，仿佛陷入了完全私人的沉思之中。

‘Dear lady,’ said Mme. Bonacieux, ‘pardon me for interrupting you; but what do you advise me to do? Good heaven! You have more experience than I have. Speak; I will listen.’
“亲爱的女士，”夫人说。博纳西厄，‘请原谅我打扰你；但你建议我做什么？好天堂！你的经验比我丰富。说话;我会听。'

‘In the first place,’ said Milady, ‘it is possible I may be deceived, and that d’Artagnan and his friends may really come to your assistance.’
“首先，”米拉迪说，“我可能被欺骗了，达达尼昂和他的朋友们可能真的会来帮助你。”

‘Oh, that would be too much!’ cried Mme. Bonacieux, ‘so much happiness is not in store for me!’
“哦，那太过分了！”夫人叫道。 Bonacieux，“我没有那么多幸福！”

‘Then you comprehend it would be only a question of time, a sort of race, which should arrive first. If your friends are the more speedy, you are to be saved; if the satellites of the cardinal, you are lost.’
“然后你就会明白，这只是一个时间问题，一种竞赛，谁应该先到达。”如果你的朋友跑得更快，你就有救了；如果你的朋友跑得更快，你就得救了；如果红衣主教的卫星，你就迷路了。

‘Oh, yes, yes; lost beyond redemption! What, then, to do? What to do?’
哦，是的，是的；失去万劫不复！那么，该怎么办呢？该怎么办？'

‘There would be a very simple means, very natural—‘
“会有一个非常简单、非常自然的方法——”

‘Tell me what!’
“告诉我什么！”

‘To wait, concealed in the neighborhood, and assure yourself who are the men who come to ask for you.’
“躲在附近等待，确认谁是来找你的人。”

‘But where can I wait?’
“但是我可以在哪里等呢？”

‘Oh, there is no difficulty in that. I shall stop and conceal myself a few leagues hence until my brother can rejoin me. Well, I take you with me; we conceal ourselves, and wait together.’
‘哦，这没有什么困难。我将停下来，躲在几里格外，直到我的兄弟能重新加入我。好吧，我带你一起去；我们隐藏起来，一起等待。

‘But I shall not be allowed to go; I am almost a prisoner.’
“但是我不会被允许去；我几乎成了一名囚犯。

‘As they believe that I go in consequence of an order from the cardinal, no one will believe you anxious to follow me.’
“他们相信我是按照红衣主教的命令去的，所以没有人会相信你急于跟随我。”

‘Well?’
'出色地？'

‘Well! The carriage is at the door; you bid me adieu; you mount the step to embrace me a last time; my brother’s servant, who comes to fetch me, is told how to proceed; he makes a sign to the postillion, and we set off at a gallop.’
'出色地！马车就到门口了；你向我告别；你走上台阶最后一次拥抱我；我哥哥的仆人来接我，他被告知如何进行。他向后座做了个手势，我们便策马出发了。

‘But d’Artagnan! D’Artagnan! if he comes?’
“但是达达尼昂！达达尼昂！如果他来的话？

‘Shall we not know it?’
“我们难道不知道吗？”

‘How?’
'如何？'

‘Nothing easier. We will send my brother’s servant back to Bethune, whom, as I told you, we can trust. He shall assume a disguise, and place himself in front of the convent. If the emissaries of the cardinal arrive, he will take no notice; if it is Monsieur d’Artagnan and his friends, he will bring them to us.’
'没有什么比这更容易的了。我们会把我哥哥的仆人送回白求恩那里，正如我告诉过你的，我们可以信任他。他将乔装打扮，来到修道院前。如果红衣主教的使者到来，他也不会注意到；如果是达达尼昂先生和他的朋友，他会把他们带到我们这里来。

‘He knows them, then?’
“那么他认识他们？”

‘Doubtless. Has he not seen Monsieur d’Artagnan at my house?’
‘毫无疑问。他没有在我家见过达达尼昂先生吗？

‘Oh, yes, yes; you are right. Thus all may go well—all may be for the best; but we do not go far from this place?’
哦，是的，是的；你是对的。这样，一切都会顺利——一切都可能是最好的；但我们离这个地方并不远？

‘Seven or eight leagues at the most. We will keep on the frontiers, for instance; and at the first alarm we can leave France.’
‘最多七八个联赛。例如，我们将继续坚守边境；一旦警报响起，我们就可以离开法国。

‘And what can we do there?’
“那我们能在那里做什么呢？”

‘Wait.’
'等待。'

‘But if they come?’
“但是如果他们来了呢？”

‘My brother’s carriage will be here first.’
“我哥哥的马车会先到的。”

‘If I should happen to be any distance from you when the carriage comes for you—at dinner or supper, for instance?’
“当马车来接你时，例如在晚餐或晚餐时，我是否碰巧离你有一段距离？”

‘Do one thing.’
“做一件事。”

‘What is that?’
'那是什么？'

‘Tell your good superior that in order that we may be as much together as possible, you ask her permission to share my repast.’
“告诉你的好上司，为了我们能尽可能多地在一起，你请她允许和我一起吃饭。”

‘Will she permit it?’
“她会允许吗？”

‘What inconvenience can it be?’
“有什么不便吗？”

‘Oh, delightful! In this way we shall not be separated for an instant.’
‘哦，真高兴！这样我们就不会一刻分开了。”

‘Well, go down to her, then, to make your request. I feel my head a little confused; I will take a turn in the garden.’
“好吧，那么，去见她，提出你的要求。我觉得我的头有点混乱；我要去花园转一转。

‘Go and where shall I find you?’
“走吧，我到哪里去找你？”

‘Here, in an hour.’
“一个小时后，就到这里。”

‘Here, in an hour. Oh, you are so kind, and I am so grateful!’
‘在这里，一小时后。哦，你真是太好了，我很感激！”

‘How can I avoid interesting myself for one who is so beautiful and so amiable? Are you not the beloved of one of my best friends?’
“我怎么能不被一个如此美丽、如此和蔼可亲的人所吸引呢？”你不是我最好的朋友之一的挚爱吗？

‘Dear d’Artagnan! Oh, how he will thank you!’
“亲爱的达达尼昂！哦，他会多么感谢你啊！

‘I hope so. Now, then, all is agreed; let us go down.’
'但愿如此。那么现在，一切都同意了；让我们下去吧。

‘You are going into the garden?’
“你要去花园吗？”

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘Go along this corridor, down a little staircase, and you are in it.’
“沿着这条走廊走下去，走下一个小楼梯，你就到了里面。”

‘Excellent; thank you!’
'出色的;谢谢你！'

And the two women parted, exchanging charming smiles.
两个女人分开，交换着迷人的微笑。

Milady had told the truth—her head was confused, for her ill-arranged plans clashed one another like chaos. She required to be alone that she might put her thoughts a little into order. She saw vaguely the future; but she stood in need of a little silence and quiet to give all her ideas, as yet confused, a distinct form and a regular plan.
米莱迪说的是实话——她的脑子很混乱，因为她安排不善的计划像混乱一样相互冲突。她需要独处，这样才能理清思绪。她隐约看到了未来；但她需要一点安静和安静，让她所有的想法，尽管还很混乱，有一个独特的形式和一个有规律的计划。

What was most pressing was to get Mme. Bonacieux away, and convey her to a place of safety, and there, if matters required, make her a hostage. Milady began to have doubts of the issue of this terrible duel, in which her enemies showed as much perseverance as she did animosity.
当务之急是找到夫人。博纳希厄走开，把她送到安全的地方，如果有必要的话，可以把她当作人质。米莱迪开始对这场可怕的决斗产生怀疑，在这场决斗中，她的敌人表现出的毅力和她表现出的敌意一样多。

Besides, she felt as we feel when a storm is coming on—that this issue was near, and could not fail to be terrible.
此外，她的感觉就像我们在暴风雨即将来临时的感觉一样——这个问题已经迫在眉睫，而且一定会很可怕。

The principal thing for her, then, was, as we have said, to keep Mme. Bonacieux in her power. Mme. Bonacieux was the very life of d’Artagnan. This was more than his life, the life of the woman he loved; this was, in case of ill fortune, a means of temporizing and obtaining good conditions.
那么，正如我们所说，对她来说最重要的是留住夫人。博纳西厄在她的权力之下。女士。博纳希厄就是达达尼昂的一生。这不仅仅是他的生活，他所爱的女人的生活；这不仅仅是他的生活。在不幸的情况下，这是一种拖延时间并获得良好条件的手段。

Now, this point was settled; Mme. Bonacieux, without any suspicion, accompanied her. Once concealed with her at Armentieres, it would be easy to make her believe that d’Artagnan had not come to Bethune. In fifteen days at most, Rochefort would be back; besides, during that fifteen days she would have time to think how she could best avenge herself on the four friends. She would not be weary, thank God! for she should enjoy the sweetest pastime such events could accord a woman of her character—perfecting a beautiful vengeance.
现在，这一点已经解决了；女士。博纳希厄毫无怀疑地陪着她。一旦和她一起躲在阿芒蒂耶尔，就很容易让她相信达达尼昂没有来白求恩那里。最多十五天，罗什福尔就会回来；此外，在那十五天里，她有时间思考如何才能最好地向四个朋友报仇。她不会疲倦的，感谢上帝！因为她应该享受这样的事情能给她这种性格的女人带来的最甜蜜的消遣——完美的复仇。

Revolving all this in her mind, she cast her eyes around her, and arranged the topography of the garden in her head. Milady was like a good general who contemplates at the same time victory and defeat, and who is quite prepared, according to the chances of the battle, to march forward or to beat a retreat.
脑子里旋转着这一切，她目光扫视四周，在脑海中排列着花园的地形。米莱狄就像一位善将，既考虑胜败，又根据战况做好了进退的准备。

At the end of an hour she heard a soft voice calling her; it was Mme. Bonacieux’s. The good abbess had naturally consented to her request; and as a commencement, they were to sup together.
一个小时后，她听到一个轻柔的声音在呼唤她。是女士。博纳西厄的。善良的女院长自然答应了她的请求。作为开始，他们要一起吃晚饭。

On reaching the courtyard, they heard the noise of a carriage which stopped at the gate.
刚到院子，就听见门口有一辆马车停了下来。

Milady listened.
米莱迪听着。

‘Do you hear anything?’ said she.
“你听到什么声音了吗？”她说。

‘Yes, the rolling of a carriage.’
“是的，马车滚动。”

‘It is the one my brother sends for us.’
“这是我哥哥派来找我们的。”

‘Oh, my God!’
'我的天啊！'

‘Come, come! courage!’
'来来！勇气！'

The bell of the convent gate was sounded; Milady was not mistaken.
修道院大门的钟声响起；米莱迪没有看错。

‘Go to your chamber,’ said she to Mme. Bonacieux; ‘you have perhaps some jewels you would like to take.’
“回你的房间去吧，”她对夫人说。博纳西厄； “你也许有一些想要带走的珠宝。”

‘I have his letters,’ said she.
“我有他的信，”她说。

‘Well, go and fetch them, and come to my apartment. We will snatch some supper; we shall perhaps travel part of the night, and must keep our strength up.’
“好吧，去把他们接过来，然后到我的公寓来。我们会去吃点晚饭；我们也许会在夜间旅行，必须保持体力。

‘Great God!’ said Mme. Bonacieux, placing her hand upon her bosom, ‘my heart beats so I cannot walk.’
“伟大的上帝！”夫人说道。博纳西厄将手放在胸前，“我的心脏跳动，所以我无法行走。”

‘Courage, courage! remember that in a quarter of an hour you will be safe; and think that what you are about to do is for HIS sake.’
‘勇气，勇气！请记住，一刻钟后您就会安全；并认为你要做的事情是为了他。

‘Yes, yes, everything for him. You have restored my courage by a single word; go, I will rejoin you.’
‘是的，是的，一切都为了他。你一句话，就让我恢复了勇气；走吧，我会重新加入你。

Milady ran up to her apartment quickly; she there found Rochefort’s lackey, and gave him his instructions.
米莱迪快步跑到她的公寓。她在那里找到了罗什福尔的跟班，并向他下达了指示。

He was to wait at the gate; if by chance the Musketeers should appear, the carriage was to set off as fast as possible, pass around the convent, and go and wait for Milady at a little village which was situated at the other side of the wood. In this case Milady would cross the garden and gain the village on foot. As we have already said, Milady was admirably acquainted with this part of France.
他要在门口等候；如果碰巧有火枪手出现，马车就要尽快出发，绕过修道院，去树林另一边的一个小村庄等待米莱迪。在这种情况下，米莱迪将穿过花园，步行到达村庄。正如我们已经说过的，米莱迪对法国的这一地区非常熟悉。

If the Musketeers did not appear, things were to go on as had been agreed; Mme. Bonacieux was to get into the carriage as if to bid her adieu, and she was to take away Mme. Bonacieux.
如果火枪手没有出现，事情就按照约定继续进行。女士。博纳希厄要像向她告别一样钻进马车，而她要带走夫人。博纳西厄。

Mme. Bonacieux came in; and to remove all suspicion, if she had any, Milady repeated to the lackey, before her, the latter part of her instructions.
女士。博纳希厄进来了。为了消除所有怀疑（如果有的话），米莱迪向她面前的仆人重复了她指示的后半部分。

Milady asked some questions about the carriage. It was a chaise drawn by three horses, driven by a postillion; Rochefort’s lackey would precede it, as courier.
米莱迪问了一些关于马车的问题。这是一辆由三匹马拉着的马车，由一个后车驱动。罗什福尔的走狗会走在前面，充当信使。

Milady was wrong in fearing that Mme. Bonacieux would have any suspicion. The poor young woman was too pure to suppose that any female could be guilty of such perfidy; besides, the name of the Comtesse de Winter, which she had heard the abbess pronounce, was wholly unknown to her, and she was even ignorant that a woman had had so great and so fatal a share in the misfortune of her life.
米莱迪担心夫人是错误的。博纳西厄会有任何怀疑。这位可怜的年轻女子太纯洁了，不可能认为任何女性都会犯下这种背信弃义的罪行。此外，她听女修道院院长念出的温特伯爵夫人的名字，她完全不知道，她甚至不知道，一个女人对她一生的不幸有着如此重大和致命的责任。

‘You see,’ said she, when the lackey had gone out, ‘everything is ready. The abbess suspects nothing, and believes that I am taken by order of the cardinal. This man goes to give his last orders; take the least thing, drink a finger of wine, and let us be gone.’
“你看，”仆人出去后，她说道，“一切都准备好了。”女院长毫无怀疑，并相信我是奉红衣主教的命令被带走的。这个人去下达最后的命令；拿走最少的东西，喝一点酒，然后我们就走吧。”

‘Yes,’ said Mme. Bonacieux, mechanically, ‘yes, let us be gone.’
“是的，”夫人说。博纳西厄机械地说道：“是的，我们走吧。”

Milady made her a sign to sit down opposite, poured her a small glass of Spanish wine, and helped her to the wing of a chicken.
米莱迪示意她在对面坐下，给她倒了一小杯西班牙葡萄酒，又帮她夹了一只鸡翅。

‘See,’ said she, ‘if everything does not second us! Here is night coming on; by daybreak we shall have reached our retreat, and nobody can guess where we are. Come, courage! take something.’
“瞧，”她说，“如果一切都不支持我们的话！夜幕降临了；天一亮我们就会到达撤退地点，没有人能猜出我们在哪里。来吧，勇气！拿点东西。

Mme. Bonacieux ate a few mouthfuls mechanically, and just touched the glass with her lips.
女士。博纳希厄机械地吃了几口，嘴唇只是碰了一下玻璃杯。

‘Come, come!’ said Milady, lifting hers to her mouth, ‘do as I do.’
“来吧，来吧！”米莱迪边说边把嘴举到嘴边，“照我做的做吧。”

But at the moment the glass touched her lips, her hand remained suspended; she heard something on the road which sounded like the rattling of a distant gallop. Then it grew nearer, and it seemed to her, almost at the same time, that she heard the neighing of horses.
但就在玻璃杯触碰她嘴唇的那一刻，她的手却悬空了。她听到路上有什么声音，听起来像是远处疾驰的嘎嘎声。然后它越来越近了，在她看来，几乎在同一时间，她听到了马匹的嘶鸣声。

This noise acted upon her joy like the storm which awakens the sleeper in the midst of a happy dream; she grew pale and ran to the window, while Mme. Bonacieux, rising all in a tremble, supported herself upon her chair to avoid falling. Nothing was yet to be seen, only they heard the galloping draw nearer.
这声音对她的喜悦产生了影响，就像暴风雨唤醒了美梦中的熟睡者一样。她的脸色变得苍白，跑到窗边，而夫人。博纳希厄浑身发抖，靠在椅子上以免摔倒。什么也没有看到，只是他们听到疾驰的声音越来越近。

‘Oh, my God!’ said Mme. Bonacieux, ‘what is that noise?’
“哦，天啊！”夫人说道。 Bonacieux，“那是什么声音？”

‘That of either our friends or our enemies,’ said Milady, with her terrible coolness. ‘Stay where you are, I will tell you.’
“要么是我们的朋友，要么是我们的敌人。”米莱迪极其冷静地说。 “呆在原地，我会告诉你的。”

Mme. Bonacieux remained standing, mute, motionless, and pale as a statue.
女士。博纳希厄仍然站着，一言不发，一动不动，脸色苍白得像一尊雕像。

The noise became louder; the horses could not be more than a hundred and fifty paces distant. If they were not yet to be seen, it was because the road made an elbow. The noise became so distinct that the horses might be counted by the rattle of their hoofs.
噪音越来越大；马匹的距离不会超过一百五十步。如果说还没有看到他们，那是因为路弯了。噪音变得如此明显，以至于可以通过马蹄的嘎嘎声来数出马匹的数量。

Milady gazed with all the power of her attention; it was just light enough for her to see who was coming.
米莱迪全神贯注地凝视着。天色刚刚好，足以让她看到谁来了。

All at once, at the turning of the road she saw the glitter of laced hats and the waving of feathers; she counted two, then five, then eight horsemen. One of them preceded the rest by double the length of his horse.
突然，在路的拐角处，她看到了闪闪发光的系带帽子和飘扬的羽毛。她数了数，有两个，然后是五个，然后是八个骑兵。其中一个人领先于其他人，其长度是他的马的两倍。

Milady uttered a stifled groan. In the first horseman she recognized d’Artagnan.
米莱迪发出一声压抑的呻吟。在第一个骑士中，她认出了达达尼昂。

‘Oh, my God, my God,’ cried Mme. Bonacieux, ‘what is it?’
“哦，我的上帝，我的上帝，”夫人喊道。博纳西厄，“那是什么？”

‘It is the uniform of the cardinal’s Guards. Not an instant to be lost! Fly, fly!’
“这是红衣主教卫队的制服。一刻也不能丢失！飞吧，飞吧！’

‘Yes, yes, let us fly!’ repeated Mme. Bonacieux, but without being able to make a step, glued as she was to the spot by terror.
“是的，是的，让我们飞吧！”夫人重复道。博纳希厄却无法迈出一步，她因恐惧而呆在原地。

They heard the horsemen pass under the windows.
他们听见骑兵从窗下经过。

‘Come, then, come, then!’ cried Milady, trying to drag the young woman along by the arm. ‘Thanks to the garden, we yet can flee; I have the key, but make haste! in five minutes it will be too late!’
“那就来吧，那就来吧！”米莱迪喊道，试图拉着年轻女子的手臂一起走。 “多亏了花园，我们才得以逃离；我有钥匙，但要快点！五分钟后就太晚了！”

Mme. Bonacieux tried to walk, made two steps, and sank upon her knees. Milady tried to raise and carry her, but could not do it.
女士。博纳希厄试图走路，走了两步，然后跪倒在地。米莱迪试图扶起并抱起她，但没能做到。

At this moment they heard the rolling of the carriage, which at the approach of the Musketeers set off at a gallop. Then three or four shots were fired.
就在这时，他们听到了马车的滚动声，火枪手一靠近，马车就开始疾驰。然后就开了三四枪。

‘For the last time, will you come?’ cried Milady.
“你最后一次来吗？”米莱迪喊道。

‘Oh, my God, my God! you see my strength fails me; you see plainly I cannot walk. Flee alone!’
‘噢，我的上帝，我的上帝！你看，我的力气已经耗尽了；你清楚地看到我不能走路。独自逃走！

‘Flee alone, and leave you here? No, no, never!’ cried Milady.
‘一个人逃走，把你留在这里？不，不，从来没有！”米莱迪喊道。

All at once she paused, a livid flash darted from her eyes; she ran to the table, emptied into Mme. Bonacieux’s glass the contents of a ring which she opened with singular quickness. It was a grain of a reddish color, which dissolved immediately.
突然，她停了下来，眼中闪过一道青色的光芒。她跑到桌边，向夫人倾诉心事。博纳希厄的玻璃杯里装着一枚戒指，她以惊人的速度打开了戒指。那是一粒淡红色的颗粒，立刻就溶解了。

Then, taking the glass with a firm hand, she said, ‘Drink. This wine will give you strength, drink!’ And she put the glass to the lips of the young woman, who drank mechanically.
然后，她用力接过酒杯，说道：“喝吧。”这酒会给你力量，喝吧！”她把酒杯放到年轻女子的唇边，年轻女子机械地喝了下去。

‘This is not the way that I wished to avenge myself,’ said Milady, replacing the glass upon the table, with an infernal smile, ‘but, my faith! we do what we can!’ And she rushed out of the room.
“这不是我为自己报仇的方式，”米莱迪把玻璃杯放回桌子上，脸上带着邪恶的微笑，“但是，我的信仰！”我们尽力而为！”说着她冲出了房间。

Mme. Bonacieux saw her go without being able to follow her; she was like people who dream they are pursued, and who in vain try to walk.
女士。博纳希厄目送她离去，但没能跟上她。她就像那些梦想着自己被追赶的人，却徒劳地试图行走。

A few moments passed; a great noise was heard at the gate. Every instant Mme. Bonacieux expected to see Milady, but she did not return. Several times, with terror, no doubt, the cold sweat burst from her burning brow.
过了一会儿；门口传来一阵巨大的喧闹声。每一个瞬间女士。博纳希厄希望能见到米莱迪，但她没有回来。有几次，毫无疑问，她带着恐惧，从她灼热的额头上冒出了冷汗。

At length she heard the grating of the hinges of the opening gates; the noise of boots and spurs resounded on the stairs. There was a great murmur of voices which continued to draw near, amid which she seemed to hear her own name pronounced.
最后，她听到了大门铰链打开时发出的嘎吱声。楼梯上响起靴子和马刺的声音。一阵巨大的低语声不断靠近，她似乎听到自己的名字被念出来。

All at once she uttered a loud cry of joy, and darted toward the door; she had recognized the voice of d’Artagnan.
突然，她高兴地大喊一声，冲向门口。她认出了达达尼昂的声音。

‘d’Artagnan! D’Artagnan!’ cried she, ‘is it you? This way! this way!’
‘达达尼昂！达达尼昂！”她喊道，“是你吗？这边走！这边走！'

‘Constance? Constance?’ replied the young man, ‘where are you? where are you? My God!’
'康斯坦斯？康斯坦丝？”年轻人回答道，“你在哪里？你在哪里？我的上帝！'

At the same moment the door of the cell yielded to a shock, rather than opened; several men rushed into the chamber. Mme. Bonacieux had sunk into an armchair, without the power of moving.
与此同时，牢房的门却因为震动而屈服，而不是打开。几个人冲进了房间。女士。博纳希厄陷入了扶手椅中，无法移动。

D’Artagnan threw down a yet-smoking pistol which he held in his hand, and fell on his knees before his mistress. Athos replaced his in his belt; Porthos and Aramis, who held their drawn swords in their hands, returned them to their scabbards.
达达尼昂扔掉了手里的一把还在冒烟的手枪，跪在了情妇面前。阿托斯将他的腰带重新戴上。波尔托斯和阿拉米斯手中握着拔出的剑，将剑放回剑鞘。

‘Oh, d’Artagnan, my beloved d’Artagnan! You have come, then, at last! You have not deceived me! It is indeed thee!’
“哦，达达尼昂，我亲爱的达达尼昂！那么，你终于来了！你没有骗我！确实是你！

‘Yes, yes, Constance. Reunited!’
“是的，是的，康斯坦斯。重聚了！

‘Oh, it was in vain she told me you would not come! I hoped in silence. I was not willing to fly. Oh, I have done well! How happy I am!’
“噢，她告诉我你不来是徒劳的！”我默默地希望着。我不愿意飞。哦，我已经做得很好了！我多么高兴啊！

At this word SHE, Athos, who had seated himself quietly, started up.
听到“她”这句话，原本安静地坐下的阿托斯猛地站了起来。

‘SHE! What she?’ asked d’Artagnan.
'她！ “她是什么？”达达尼昂问道。

‘Why, my companion. She who out of friendship for me wished to take me from my persecutors. She who, mistaking you for the cardinal’s Guards, has just fled away.’
‘为什么，我的同伴。她出于对我的友谊，希望将我从迫害者手中带走。她把你误认为是红衣主教的卫兵，刚刚逃跑了。”

‘Your companion!’ cried d’Artagnan, becoming more pale than the white veil of his mistress. ‘Of what companion are you speaking, dear Constance?’
“你的同伴！”达达尼昂喊道，他的脸色变得比他情妇的白面纱还要苍白。 “亲爱的康斯坦斯，你说的是哪个同伴？”

‘Of her whose carriage was at the gate; of a woman who calls herself your friend; of a woman to whom you have told everything.’
‘她的马车停在门口；一个自称为你朋友的女人；一个你已经告诉了她一切的女人。

‘Her name, her name!’ cried d’Artagnan. ‘My God, can you not remember her name?’
“她的名字，她的名字！”达达尼昂喊道。 “天啊，你记不住她的名字了吗？”

‘Yes, it was pronounced in my hearing once. Stop—but—it is very strange—oh, my God, my head swims! I cannot see!’
“是的，我曾在听证会上宣布过一次。停下来——但是——这很奇怪——哦，天哪，我的头晕了！我看不见！'

‘Help, help, my friends! her hands are icy cold,’ cried d’Artagnan. ‘She is ill! Great God, she is losing her senses!’
‘救命，救命，我的朋友们！ “她的手冰冷。”达达尼昂喊道。 '她病了！天啊，她快失去知觉了！”

While Porthos was calling for help with all the power of his strong voice, Aramis ran to the table to get a glass of water; but he stopped at seeing the horrible alteration that had taken place in the countenance of Athos, who, standing before the table, his hair rising from his head, his eyes fixed in stupor, was looking at one of the glasses, and appeared a prey to the most horrible doubt.
当波托斯用尽全力呼救时，阿拉米斯跑到桌边去拿一杯水；但当他看到阿多斯的脸色发生了可怕的变化时，他停下来了。阿多斯站在桌子前，头发从头上竖起来，他的眼睛呆呆地盯着其中一个眼镜，看起来像是一个猎物。到最可怕的怀疑。

‘Oh!’ said Athos, ‘oh, no, it is impossible! God would not permit such a crime!’
“噢！”阿托斯说道，“噢，不，这是不可能的！”上帝不会允许这样的罪行发生！”

‘Water, water!’ cried d’Artagnan. ‘Water!’
“水，水！”达达尼昂喊道。 '水！'

‘Oh, poor woman, poor woman!’ murmured Athos, in a broken voice.
“噢，可怜的女人，可怜的女人！”阿托斯用断断续续的声音低声说道。

Mme. Bonacieux opened her eyes under the kisses of d’Artagnan.
女士。博纳希厄在达达尼昂的吻下睁开了眼睛。

‘She revives!’ cried the young man. ‘Oh, my God, my God, I thank thee!’
“她复活了！”年轻人喊道。 “哦，我的上帝，我的上帝，我感谢你！”

‘Madame!’ said Athos, ‘madame, in the name of heaven, whose empty glass is this?’
“夫人！”阿托斯说道，“夫人，看在上帝的份上，这是谁的空杯子？”

‘Mine, monsieur,’ said the young woman, in a dying voice.
“我的，先生，”年轻女子用微弱的声音说道。

‘But who poured the wine for you that was in this glass?’
“但是这个杯子里的酒是谁给你倒的呢？”

‘She.’
'她。'

‘But who is SHE?’
“但是她是谁？”

‘Oh, I remember!’ said Mme. Bonacieux, ‘the Comtesse de Winter.’
“哦，我记得了！”夫人说。 Bonacieux，“温特伯爵夫人”。

The four friends uttered one and the same cry, but that of Athos dominated all the rest.
四个朋友发出了同样的呼喊，但阿多斯的呼喊声压倒了其余的声音。

At that moment the countenance of Mme. Bonacieux became livid; a fearful agony pervaded her frame, and she sank panting into the arms of Porthos and Aramis.
那一刻，夫人的表情。博纳希厄脸色铁青。一种可怕的痛苦弥漫在她的全身，她气喘吁吁地倒在波托斯和阿拉米斯的怀里。

D’Artagnan seized the hands of Athos with an anguish difficult to be described.
达达尼昂抓住阿托斯的手，心中的痛苦难以形容。

‘And what do you believe?’ His voice was stifled by sobs.
“那你相信什么？”他的声音因抽泣而窒息。

‘I believe everything,’ said Athos biting his lips till the blood sprang to avoid sighing.
“我相信一切，”阿托斯咬着嘴唇直到鲜血喷涌，以免叹息。

‘d’Artagnan, d’Artagnan!’ cried Mme. Bonacieux, ‘where art thou? Do not leave me! You see I am dying!’
“达达尼昂，达达尼昂！”夫人喊道。博纳希厄，‘你在哪里？不要离开我！你看我快死了！

D’Artagnan released the hands of Athos which he still held clasped in both his own, and hastened to her. Her beautiful face was distorted with agony; her glassy eyes had no longer their sight; a convulsive shuddering shook her whole body; the sweat rolled from her brow.
达达尼昂松开了阿托斯的双手，他仍然紧握着他的双手，急忙走向她。她美丽的脸因痛苦而扭曲。她那双呆滞的眼睛已经失去了视力。一阵痉挛般的颤抖摇晃着她的全身。汗水从她的额头上滚落下来。

‘In the name of heaven, run, call! Aramis! Porthos! Call for help!’
‘以天堂之名，奔跑，呼叫！阿拉米斯！波托斯！寻求帮助！'

‘Useless!’ said Athos, ‘useless! For the poison which SHE pours there is no antidote.’
“没用！”阿托斯说，“没用！”她倒下的毒药是没有解药的。

‘Yes, yes! Help, help!’ murmured Mme. Bonacieux; ‘help!’
'是的是的！救命，救命！”夫人低声说道。博纳西厄； '帮助！'

Then, collecting all her strength, she took the head of the young man between her hands, looked at him for an instant as if her whole soul passed into that look, and with a sobbing cry pressed her lips to his.
然后，她用尽全身的力气，双手捧住年轻人的头，看了他一瞬间，仿佛她的整个灵魂都融入了那眼神中，然后带着抽泣的声音将她的嘴唇贴在了他的嘴唇上。

‘Constance, Constance!’ cried d’Artagnan.
“康斯坦斯，康斯坦斯！”达达尼昂喊道。

A sigh escaped from the mouth of Mme. Bonacieux, and dwelt for an instant on the lips of d’Artagnan. That sigh was the soul, so chaste and so loving, which reascended to heaven.
夫人嘴里发出一声叹息。博纳希厄，并在达达尼昂的嘴唇上停留了片刻。那一声叹息就是灵魂，那么纯洁，那么慈爱，升上了天堂。

D’Artagnan pressed nothing but a corpse in his arms. The young man uttered a cry, and fell by the side of his mistress as pale and as icy as herself.
达达尼昂怀里压着一具尸体。年轻人惨叫一声，倒在情妇身边，脸色苍白，冰冷如情妇。

Porthos wept; Aramis pointed toward heaven; Athos made the sign of the cross.
波托斯哭了；阿拉米斯指向天堂；阿多斯画了十字。

At that moment a man appeared in the doorway, almost as pale as those in the chamber. He looked around him and saw Mme. Bonacieux dead, and d’Artagnan in a swoon. He appeared just at that moment of stupor which follows great catastrophes.
就在这时，一个男人出现在门口，脸色几乎和房间里的人一样苍白。他环顾四周，看到了夫人。博纳希厄死了，达达尼昂陷入昏迷。他的出现正是在巨大灾难之后的昏迷时刻。

‘I was not deceived,’ said he; ‘here is Monsieur d’Artagnan; and you are his friends, Messieurs Athos, Porthos, and Aramis.’
“我没有被骗，”他说。 “这是达达尼昂先生；你们是他的朋友，阿托斯先生、波尔托斯先生和阿拉米斯先生。

The persons whose names were thus pronounced looked at the stranger with astonishment. It seemed to all three that they knew him.
那些被念出名字的人都惊讶地看着这个陌生人。三人似乎都认识他。

‘Gentlemen,’ resumed the newcomer, ‘you are, as I am, in search of a woman who,’ added he, with a terrible smile, ‘must have passed this way, for I see a corpse.’
“先生们，”新来者继续说道，“你们和我一样，正在寻找一位女士，”他带着可怕的微笑补充道，“她一定是从这条路经过的，因为我看到了一具尸体。”

The three friends remained mute—for although the voice as well as the countenance reminded them of someone they had seen, they could not remember under what circumstances.
三个朋友保持沉默——虽然声音和表情都让他们想起了自己见过的某个人，但他们却记不起是在什么情况下见过的。

‘Gentlemen,’ continued the stranger, ‘since you do not recognize a man who probably owes his life to you twice, I must name myself. I am Lord de Winter, brother-in-law of THAT WOMAN.’
“先生们，”陌生人继续说道，“既然你们不认识一个可能两次欠你们生命的人，那么我必须说出我自己的名字。我是德温特勋爵，那个女人的妹夫。

The three friends uttered a cry of surprise.
三个朋友发出了一声惊讶的叫声。

Athos rose, and offering him his hand, ‘Be welcome, my Lord,’ said he, ‘you are one of us.’
阿多斯站起来，向他伸出了手，“不客气，我的主，”他说，“你是我们中的一员。”

‘I set out five hours after her from Portsmouth,’ said Lord de Winter. ‘I arrived three hours after her at Boulogne. I missed her by twenty minutes at St. Omer. Finally, at Lilliers I lost all trace of her. I was going about at random, inquiring of everybody, when I saw you gallop past. I recognized Monsieur d’Artagnan. I called to you, but you did not answer me; I wished to follow you, but my horse was too much fatigued to go at the same pace with yours. And yet it appears, in spite of all your diligence, you have arrived too late.’
“我从朴茨茅斯出发，在她之后五个小时出发，”德温特勋爵说道。 “我比她晚三个小时到达布洛涅。我在圣奥马尔错过了她二十分钟。最后，在利里尔斯，我失去了她的踪迹。我正闲逛着，向大家打听，就看见你疾驰而过。我认出了达达尼昂先生。我呼唤你，你却没有回应我；我本想跟着你，但我的马太累了，无法跟上你的马的步伐。然而，尽管你很努力，但看来你来得太晚了。

‘You see!’ said Athos, pointing to Mme. Bonacieux dead, and to d’Artagnan, whom Porthos and Aramis were trying to recall to life.
“你瞧！”阿托斯指着夫人说道。博纳希厄死了，达达尼昂也死了，波尔托斯和阿拉米斯正试图让他复活。

‘Are they both dead?’ asked Lord de Winter, sternly.
“他们都死了吗？”德温特勋爵严厉地问道。

‘No,’ replied Athos, ‘fortunately Monsieur d’Artagnan has only fainted.’
“没有，”阿托斯回答道，“幸好达达尼昂先生只是晕倒了。”

‘Ah, indeed, so much the better!’ said Lord de Winter.
“啊，确实，好多了！”温特勋爵说道。

At that moment d’Artagnan opened his eyes. He tore himself from the arms of Porthos and Aramis, and threw himself like a madman on the corpse of his mistress.
就在这时，达达尼昂睁开了眼睛。他从波尔托斯和阿拉米斯的怀抱中挣脱出来，像个疯子一样扑倒在情妇的尸体上。

Athos rose, walked toward his friend with a slow and solemn step, embraced him tenderly, and as he burst into violent sobs, he said to him with his noble and persuasive voice, ‘Friend, be a man! Women weep for the dead; men avenge them!’
阿多斯站起身来，迈着缓慢而庄重的步伐走向他的朋友，温柔地拥抱他，当他突然抽泣起来时，他用高贵而有说服力的声音对他说：“朋友，做个男子汉吧！”女人为死者哭泣；人们为他们报仇！

‘Oh, yes!’ cried d’Artagnan, ‘yes! If it be to avenge her, I am ready to follow you.’
“哦，是的！”达达尼昂喊道，“是的！如果是为了给她报仇，我愿意跟着你。”

Athos profited by this moment of strength which the hope of vengeance restored to his unfortunate friend to make a sign to Porthos and Aramis to go and fetch the superior.
阿多斯利用这一刻的力量，他不幸的朋友重新燃起了复仇的希望，他向波尔托斯和阿拉米斯做了一个手势，让他们去把上级叫来。

The two friends met her in the corridor, greatly troubled and much upset by such strange events; she called some of the nuns, who against all monastic custom found themselves in the presence of five men.
两个朋友在走廊里遇见了她，对这些奇怪的事件感到非常困扰和不安。她叫来了一些修女，她们发现自己面对着五个男人，这违反了修道院的所有习俗。

‘Madame,’ said Athos, passing his arm under that of d’Artagnan, ‘we abandon to your pious care the body of that unfortunate woman. She was an angel on earth before being an angel in heaven. Treat her as one of your sisters. We will return someday to pray over her grave.’
“夫人，”阿多斯一边说，一边把胳膊搂在达达尼昂的手下，“我们把那个不幸女人的尸体交给您虔诚的照顾。在成为天上的天使之前，她先是人间的天使。把她当作你的姐妹之一。有一天我们会回来为她的坟墓祈祷。

D’Artagnan concealed his face in the bosom of Athos, and sobbed aloud.
达达尼昂把脸埋在阿多斯的怀里，放声哭泣。

‘Weep,’ said Athos, ‘weep, heart full of love, youth, and life! Alas, would I could weep like you!’
“哭吧，”阿多斯说，“哭吧，充满爱、青春和生命的心！”唉，我要是能像你一样哭泣就好了！

And he drew away his friend, as affectionate as a father, as consoling as a priest, noble as a man who has suffered much.
他拉走了他的朋友，像父亲一样深情，像牧师一样安慰，像一个饱受苦难的人一样高贵。

All five, followed by their lackeys leading their horses, took their way to the town of Bethune, whose outskirts they perceived, and stopped before the first inn they came to.
五人在仆人牵着马匹的跟随下，向白求恩镇走去，他们看到了白求恩镇的郊外，在他们来到的第一家客店前停了下来。

‘But,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘shall we not pursue that woman?’
“但是，”达达尼昂说，“我们不去追那个女人吗？”

‘Later,’ said Athos. ‘I have measures to take.’
“稍后再说。”阿托斯说道。 “我有措施要采取。”

‘She will escape us,’ replied the young man; ‘she will escape us, and it will be your fault, Athos.’
“她会逃离我们的，”年轻人回答道。 “她会逃离我们，这都是你的错，阿托斯。”

‘I will be accountable for her,’ said Athos.
“我会对她负责，”阿托斯说。

D’Artagnan had so much confidence in the word of his friend that he lowered his head, and entered the inn without reply.
达达尼昂对朋友的话深信不疑，低下头，没有回答，就走进了客栈。

Porthos and Aramis regarded each other, not understanding this assurance of Athos.
波托斯和阿拉米斯面面相觑，不明白阿托斯的保证。

Lord de Winter believed he spoke in this manner to soothe the grief of d’Artagnan.
德温特勋爵相信他这样说是为了安抚达达尼昂的悲伤。

‘Now, gentlemen,’ said Athos, when he had ascertained there were five chambers free in the hotel, ‘let everyone retire to his own apartment. d’Artagnan needs to be alone, to weep and to sleep. I take charge of everything; be easy.’
“现在，先生们，”阿托斯在确定旅馆里还有五个房间空闲后说道，“让每个人都回到自己的公寓去吧。”达达尼昂需要独自一人，哭泣和睡觉。我负责一切；放轻松。'

‘It appears, however,’ said Lord de Winter, ‘if there are any measures to take against the countess, it concerns me; she is my sister-in-law.’
“不过，”德温特勋爵说道，“如果要对伯爵夫人采取任何措施，那是与我有关的；她是我的嫂子。

‘And me,’ said Athos, ‘—she is my wife!’
“还有我，”阿托斯说道，“——她是我的妻子！”

D’Artagnan smiled—for he understood that Athos was sure of his vengeance when he revealed such a secret. Porthos and Aramis looked at each other, and grew pale. Lord de Winter thought Athos was mad.
达达尼昂笑了——因为他明白，当阿托斯透露这个秘密时，他就已经确定要报仇了。波托斯和阿拉米斯对视一眼，脸色都变白了。德温特勋爵认为阿多斯疯了。

‘Now, retire to your chambers,’ said Athos, ‘and leave me to act. You must perceive that in my quality of a husband this concerns me. Only, d’Artagnan, if you have not lost it, give me the paper which fell from that man’s hat, upon which is written the name of the village of—‘
“现在，回你的房间去吧，”阿多斯说道，“让我来行动吧。”你必须认识到，这与我作为丈夫的品质有关。只是，达达尼昂，如果你没有丢的话，请把那张从那个人帽子上掉下来的纸给我，上面写着村子的名字——”

‘Ah,’ said d’Artagnan, ‘I comprehend! that name written in her hand.’
“啊，”达达尼昂说，“我明白了！这个名字写在她的手上。”

‘You see, then,’ said Athos, ‘there is a god in heaven still!’
“那么，你瞧，”阿多斯说，“天堂里还有一位神！”

64 THE MAN IN THE RED CLOAK
64 红斗篷人

The despair of Athos had given place to a concentrated grief which only rendered more lucid the brilliant mental faculties of that extraordinary man.
阿多斯的绝望已经被一种集中的悲伤所取代，这种悲伤只会让这个非凡的人的聪明才智更加清晰。

Possessed by one single thought—that of the promise he had made, and of the responsibility he had taken—he retired last to his chamber, begged the host to procure him a map of the province, bent over it, examined every line traced upon it, perceived that there were four different roads from Bethune to Armentieres, and summoned the lackeys.
心中只有一个念头——他所做出的承诺，以及他所承担的责任——他最后回到自己的房间，恳求主人给他拿一张该省的地图，弯下腰，检查了上面描绘的每一条线。它察觉到从白求恩到阿尔芒蒂埃有四条不同的道路，于是召集了走狗。

Planchet, Grimaud, Bazin, and Mousqueton presented themselves, and received clear, positive, and serious orders from Athos.
普朗谢、格里莫、巴赞和穆斯克顿亲自到场，并接受了阿托斯明确、积极和严肃的命令。

They must set out the next morning at daybreak, and go to Armentieres— each by a different route. Planchet, the most intelligent of the four, was to follow that by which the carriage had gone upon which the four friends had fired, and which was accompanied, as may be remembered, by Rochefort’s servant.
他们必须在第二天一早天一亮就出发，前往阿尔芒蒂埃——每人走不同的路线。普朗谢是四人中最聪明的一个，他要跟踪四位朋友开枪射击的那辆马车，人们可能还记得，伴随着这辆马车的是罗什福尔的仆人。

Athos set the lackeys to work first because, since these men had been in the service of himself and his friends he had discovered in each of them different and essential qualities. Then, lackeys who ask questions inspire less mistrust than masters, and meet with more sympathy among those to whom they address themselves. Besides, Milady knew the masters, and did not know the lackeys; on the contrary, the lackeys knew Milady perfectly.
阿多斯首先让仆人们开始工作，因为自从这些人为他自己和他的朋友服务以来，他发现他们每个人都有不同的基本品质。然后，提出问题的走狗比主人更容易引起不信任，并且会在他们的询问者中获得更多的同情。况且，米莱狄知主子，不识奴才，相反，走狗们对米莱迪非常了解。

All four were to meet the next day at eleven o’clock. If they had discovered Milady’s retreat, three were to remain on guard; the fourth was to return to Bethune in order to inform Athos and serve as a guide to the four friends. These arrangements made, the lackeys retired.
四个人将于第二天十一点见面。如果他们发现了米莱迪的撤退，三个人就必须继续警戒；四是返回白求恩，通知阿多斯，并为四位朋友做向导。这些安排做好了，走狗们就退场了。

Athos then arose from his chair, girded on his sword, enveloped himself in his cloak, and left the hotel. It was nearly ten o’clock. At ten o’clock in the evening, it is well known, the streets in provincial towns are very little frequented. Athos nevertheless was visibly anxious to find someone of whom he could ask a question. At length he met a belated passenger, went up to him, and spoke a few words to him. The man he addressed recoiled with terror, and only answered the few words of the Musketeer by pointing. Athos offered the man half a pistole to accompany him, but the man refused.
然后阿多斯从椅子上站起来，佩带剑，裹上斗篷，离开了酒店。已经快十点了。众所周知，晚上十点，外省城镇的街道上很少有人光顾。尽管如此，阿多斯显然还是急于找到一个可以向他提问的人。最后，他遇到了一位迟到的乘客，走到他跟前，跟他说了几句话。他说话的那个人吓得往后退了一步，只是用手指回应了火枪手的几句话。阿多斯向该男子提供了半皮枪作为陪伴，但该男子拒绝了。

Athos then plunged into the street the man had indicated with his finger; but arriving at four crossroads, he stopped again, visibly embarrassed. Nevertheless, as the crossroads offered him a better chance than any other place of meeting somebody, he stood still. In a few minutes a night watch passed. Athos repeated to him the same question he had asked the first person he met. The night watch evinced the same terror, refused, in his turn, to accompany Athos, and only pointed with his hand to the road he was to take.
然后阿托斯冲进了那人用手指所指的街道上。但到了四个十字路口时，他又停了下来，显得很尴尬。然而，由于十字路口比其他任何地方都有更好的机会与人见面，所以他站着不动。几分钟后，夜更就过去了。阿多斯向他重复了他向他遇到的第一个人提出的同样的问题。守夜人也表现出同样的恐惧，拒绝陪伴阿多斯，只是用手指向他要走的路。

Athos walked in the direction indicated, and reached the suburb situated at the opposite extremity of the city from that by which he and his friends had entered it. There he again appeared uneasy and embarrassed, and stopped for the third time.
阿多斯按照指示的方向走去，到达了与他和朋友们进入城市相对的郊区。在那里，他再次显得不安和尴尬，并第三次停了下来。

Fortunately, a mendicant passed, who, coming up to Athos to ask charity, Athos offered him half a crown to accompany him where he was going. The mendicant hesitated at first, but at the sight of the piece of silver which shone in the darkness he consented, and walked on before Athos.
幸运的是，有一位托钵僧经过，他来到阿多斯面前请求施舍，阿多斯给了他半克朗，让他陪他一起去。托钵僧起初犹豫了，但看到那块在黑暗中闪闪发光的银子，他同意了，然后继续走到阿多斯面前。

Arrived at the angle of a street, he pointed to a small house, isolated, solitary, and dismal. Athos went toward the house, while the mendicant, who had received his reward, left as fast as his legs could carry him.
来到街角，他指着一栋小房子，孤零零、孤零零、阴森森的。阿多斯朝房子走去，而得到报酬的托钵僧则以最快的速度离开了。

Athos went round the house before he could distinguish the door, amid the red color in which the house was painted. No light appeared through the chinks of the shutters; no noise gave reason to believe that it was inhabited. It was dark and silent as the tomb.
阿多斯在房子漆成红色的背景下绕了一圈，还没来得及辨认出那扇门。百叶窗的缝隙里没有一丝光亮。没有任何噪音让人有理由相信那里有人居住。四周漆黑一片，寂静得像坟墓一样。

Three times Athos knocked without receiving an answer. At the third knock, however, steps were heard inside. The door at length was opened, and a man appeared, of high stature, pale complexion, and black hair and beard.
阿托斯敲了三下门，却没有得到回应。然而，第三次敲门时，里面传来了脚步声。门终于被打开，一个男人出现了，身材高大，肤色苍白，黑发黑须。

Athos and he exchanged some words in a low voice, then the tall man made a sign to the Musketeer that he might come in. Athos immediately profited by the permission, and the door was closed behind him.
阿多斯和他低声交谈了几句，然后高个子向火枪手做了个可以进来的手势。阿多斯立即得到了允许，门在他身后关上了。

The man whom Athos had come so far to seek, and whom he had found with so much trouble, introduced him into his laboratory, where he was engaged in fastening together with iron wire the dry bones of a skeleton. All the frame was adjusted except the head, which lay on the table.
阿多斯千里迢迢来寻找的那个人，他费了很大的劲才找到的，把他带进自己的实验室，在那里他正在用铁丝将一具干枯的骨头固定在一起。除了放在桌子上的头部外，所有框架都已调整。

All the rest of the furniture indicated that the dweller in this house occupied himself with the study of natural science. There were large bottles filled with serpents, ticketed according to their species; dried lizards shone like emeralds set in great squares of black wood, and bunches of wild odoriferous herbs, doubtless possessed of virtues unknown to common men, were fastened to the ceiling and hung down in the corners of the apartment. There was no family, no servant; the tall man alone inhabited this house.
其余的所有家具都表明这所房子的居住者正在忙于自然科学研究。那里有装满蛇的大瓶子，根据蛇的种类贴上标签。干蜥蜴像镶在大块黑木头上的绿宝石一样闪闪发光，一束束野生芳香草药，无疑具有普通人不知道的优点，被固定在天花板上，挂在公寓的角落里。没有家人，没有仆人；这座房子里只有那个高个子男人居住。

Athos cast a cold and indifferent glance upon the objects we have described, and at the invitation of him whom he came to seek sat down near him.
阿多斯冷漠地看了我们所描述的物体一眼，并应他来找的人的邀请在他身边坐下。

Then he explained to him the cause of his visit, and the service he required of him. But scarcely had he expressed his request when the unknown, who remained standing before the Musketeer, drew back with signs of terror, and refused. Then Athos took from his pocket a small paper, on which two lines were written, accompanied by a signature and a seal, and presented them to him who had made too prematurely these signs of repugnance. The tall man had scarcely read these lines, seen the signature, and recognized the seal, when he bowed to denote that he had no longer any objection to make, and that he was ready to obey.
然后他向他解释了他来访的原因，以及他需要他提供的服务。但他刚刚表达了自己的请求，那个站在火枪手面前的陌生人就露出恐惧的表情退缩了，并拒绝了。然后阿多斯从口袋里掏出一张小纸条，上面写着两行字，并附有签名和印章，交给他，因为他过早地做出了这些反感的迹象。高个子男人刚读完这些文字，看到了签名，也认出了印章，就鞠躬表示他不再有任何反对意见，并且他准备服从。

Athos required no more. He arose, bowed, went out, returned by the same way he came, re-entered the hotel, and went to his apartment.
阿托斯不再需要更多。他起身，鞠了一躬，出去了，又原路返回，重新进入旅馆，回到了自己的公寓。

At daybreak d’Artagnan entered the chamber, and demanded what was to be done.
天一亮，达达尼昂走进房间，询问该怎么办。

‘To wait,’ replied Athos.
“等待，”阿托斯回答。

Some minutes after, the superior of the convent sent to inform the Musketeers that the burial would take place at midday. As to the poisoner, they had heard no tidings of her whatever, only that she must have made her escape through the garden, on the sand of which her footsteps could be traced, and the door of which had been found shut. As to the key, it had disappeared.
几分钟后，修道院院长派人通知火枪手，葬礼将于中午举行。至于投毒者，他们没有听到任何关于她的消息，只知道她一定是从花园逃走的，花园的沙子上可以找到她的足迹，而且花园的门也关着。至于钥匙，已经消失了。

At the hour appointed, Lord de Winter and the four friends repaired to the convent; the bells tolled, the chapel was open, the grating of the choir was closed. In the middle of the choir the body of the victim, clothed in her novitiate dress, was exposed. On each side of the choir and behind the gratings opening into the convent was assembled the whole community of the Carmelites, who listened to the divine service, and mingled their chant with the chant of the priests, without seeing the profane, or being seen by them.
在指定的时间，德温特勋爵和四个朋友回到了修道院。钟声响起，教堂开放，唱诗班的栅栏关闭。在唱诗班中央，受害者的尸体暴露在外，穿着见习服。唱诗班的两侧和通向修道院的格栅后面聚集了整个加尔默罗会团体，他们聆听神圣的仪式，并将他们的圣歌与牧师的圣歌混合在一起，没有看到亵渎，也没有被其他人看到。他们。

At the door of the chapel d’Artagnan felt his courage fall anew, and returned to look for Athos; but Athos had disappeared.
到了小教堂门口，达达尼昂感到自己的勇气又下降了，于是又回去寻找阿多斯。但阿托斯却不见了。

Faithful to his mission of vengeance, Athos had requested to be conducted to the garden; and there upon the sand following the light steps of this woman, who left sharp tracks wherever she went, he advanced toward the gate which led into the wood, and causing it to be opened, he went out into the forest.
阿托斯忠于自己的复仇使命，要求被带到花园。在那儿，他在沙地上，跟随这个女人轻快的脚步，无论她走到哪里，都会留下尖锐的足迹，他朝通向树林的大门走去，打开门，走进了森林。

Then all his suspicions were confirmed; the road by which the carriage had disappeared encircled the forest. Athos followed the road for some time, his eyes fixed upon the ground; slight stains of blood, which came from the wound inflicted upon the man who accompanied the carriage as a courier, or from one of the horses, dotted the road. At the end of three-quarters of a league, within fifty paces of Festubert, a larger bloodstain appeared; the ground was trampled by horses. Between the forest and this accursed spot, a little behind the trampled ground, was the same track of small feet as in the garden; the carriage had stopped here. At this spot Milady had come out of the wood, and entered the carriage.
然后他所有的怀疑都得到了证实。马车消失的那条路环绕着森林。阿托斯沿着路走了一会儿，他的眼睛盯着地面。道路上点缀着一些轻微的血迹，这些血迹是随车送信的人所受的伤口，或者是其中一匹马的血迹。走了四分之三里格后，距离费斯图贝尔五十步以内，出现了更大的血迹；地面被马践踏了。在森林和这个被诅咒的地方之间，在被践踏的土地后面不远的地方，有一条和花园里一样的小脚印。马车就停在这里了。这时米莱迪已经从树林里出来，上了马车。

Satisfied with this discovery which confirmed all his suspicions, Athos returned to the hotel, and found Planchet impatiently waiting for him.
阿托斯对这一发现证实了他所有的怀疑感到满意，他回到旅馆，发现普兰切特正在不耐烦地等着他。

Everything was as Athos had foreseen.
一切都正如阿多斯所预见的那样。

Planchet had followed the road; like Athos, he had discovered the stains of blood; like Athos, he had noted the spot where the horses had halted. But he had gone farther than Athos—for at the village of Festubert, while drinking at an inn, he had learned without needing to ask a question that the evening before, at half-past eight, a wounded man who accompanied a lady traveling in a post-chaise had been obliged to stop, unable to go further. The accident was set down to the account of robbers, who had stopped the chaise in the wood. The man remained in the village; the woman had had a relay of horses, and continued her journey.
普朗切特沿着路走。和阿托斯一样，他也发现了血迹。和阿托斯一样，他也注意到了马匹停下的地方。但他比阿托斯走得更远——因为在费斯图伯特村的一家旅馆里喝酒时，他不用问就知道，前天晚上八点半，一名受伤的男子陪同一位女士在路上旅行。一辆马车不得不停下来，无法继续前行。这起事故归咎于强盗，他们把马车停在树林里。该男子仍留在村里。女人接了马匹，继续赶路。

Planchet went in search of the postillion who had driven her, and found him. He had taken the lady as far as Fromelles; and from Fromelles she had set out for Armentieres. Planchet took the crossroad, and by seven o’clock in the morning he was at Armentieres.
普兰切特去寻找开她车的那个后车，并找到了他。他把这位女士带到了弗罗梅勒斯。她从弗罗梅莱斯出发前往阿尔芒蒂耶尔。普朗谢特走上了十字路口，早上七点就到了阿芒蒂埃。

There was but one tavern, the Post. Planchet went and presented himself as a lackey out of a place, who was in search of a situation. He had not chatted ten minutes with the people of the tavern before he learned that a woman had come there alone about eleven o’clock the night before, had engaged a chamber, had sent for the master of the hotel, and told him she desired to remain some time in the neighborhood.
那里只有一家小酒馆，那就是“邮报”。普兰切特走过去，表现出自己是一个从某个地方出来的走狗，正在寻找一个工作机会。和酒馆里的人聊了不到十分钟，他就知道前一天晚上十一点左右，一个女人独自来到这里，订了一间房间，并派人去叫了旅馆的老板，告诉他她想要的。在附近停留一段时间。

Planchet had no need to learn more. He hastened to the rendezvous, found the lackeys at their posts, placed them as sentinels at all the outlets of the hotel, and came to find Athos, who had just received this information when his friends returned.
Planchet 不需要了解更多。他赶紧赶到集合地点，找到了各自岗位上的走狗，将他们安排在酒店各个网点担任哨兵，然后来找阿托斯，阿托斯在朋友们回来时刚刚收到了这个信息。

All their countenances were melancholy and gloomy, even the mild countenance of Aramis.
他们个个面容忧郁、阴沉，连面容温和的阿拉米斯也不例外。

‘What is to be done?’ asked d’Artagnan.
“该怎么办？”达达尼昂问道。

‘To wait!’ replied Athos.
“等待！”阿托斯回答。

Each retired to his own apartment.
每个人都退休到自己的公寓。

At eight o’clock in the evening Athos ordered the horses to be saddled, and Lord de Winter and his friends notified that they must prepare for the expedition.
晚上八点，阿多斯下令备好马鞍，德温特勋爵和他的朋友们通知他们必须为这次远征做好准备。

In an instant all five were ready. Each examined his arms, and put them in order. Athos came down last, and found d’Artagnan already on horseback, and growing impatient.
刹那间，五个人都准备好了。每个人都检查了自己的手臂，并将它们整理好。阿托斯最后下来，发现达达尼昂已经骑在马背上，而且越来越不耐烦。

‘Patience!’ cried Athos; ‘one of our party is still wanting.’
“耐心点！”阿托斯喊道。 “我们党中的一个人还缺人。”

The four horsemen looked round them with astonishment, for they sought vainly in their minds to know who this other person could be.
四名骑士惊讶地环顾四周，因为他们徒劳地想知道另一个人是谁。

At this moment Planchet brought out Athos’s house; the Musketeer leaped lightly into the saddle.
这时，普朗切特带出了阿多斯的房子。火枪手轻轻地跳上马鞍。

‘Wait for me,’ cried he, ‘I will soon be back,’ and he set off at a gallop.
“等我一下，”他喊道，“我很快就回来。”然后他就策马出发了。

In a quarter of an hour he returned, accompanied by a tall man, masked, and wrapped in a large red cloak.
一刻钟后，他回来了，身边跟着一个戴着面具、裹着一件红色大斗篷的高个子男人。

Lord de Winter and the three Musketeers looked at one another inquiringly. Neither could give the others any information, for all were ignorant who this man could be; nevertheless, they felt convinced that all was as it should be, as it was done by the order of Athos.
温特勋爵和三个火枪手面面相觑。两人都无法向其他人透露任何信息，因为大家都不知道这个人是谁。尽管如此，他们还是确信一切都是按照阿托斯的命令完成的。

At nine o’clock, guided by Planchet, the little cavalcade set out, taking the route the carriage had taken.
九点钟，在普兰切特的带领下，这一小队人马沿着马车走过的路线出发了。

It was a melancholy sight—that of these six men, traveling in silence, each plunged in his own thoughts, sad as despair, gloomy as chastisement.
这是一幅忧郁的景象——这六个人默默地行进，各自陷入自己的思绪，悲伤如绝望，阴郁如惩罚。

65 TRIAL
65 试用

It was a stormy and dark night; vast clouds covered the heavens, concealing the stars; the moon would not rise till midnight.
那是一个风雨交加、漆黑的夜晚；浩瀚的云层遮盖了天空，遮住了星星；月亮要到午夜才会升起。

Occasionally, by the light of a flash of lightning which gleamed along the horizon, the road stretched itself before them, white and solitary; the flash extinct, all remained in darkness.
偶尔，在地平线上闪烁的闪电的光芒下，道路在他们面前伸展开来，白色而孤独。闪光熄灭了，一切仍处于黑暗之中。

Every minute Athos was forced to restrain d’Artagnan, constantly in advance of the little troop, and to beg him to keep in the line, which in an instant he again departed from. He had but one thought—to go forward; and he went.
阿多斯每时每刻都被迫在小队前面拦住达达尼昂，并恳求他保持阵形，但他立刻又偏离了阵线。他只有一个念头——向前走；他就去了。

They passed in silence through the little village of Festubert, where the wounded servant was, and then skirted the wood of Richebourg. At Herlier, Planchet, who led the column, turned to the left.
他们默默地穿过受伤仆人所在的费斯图贝尔小村庄，然后绕过里什堡树林。在赫利耶，带头纵队的普朗谢特转向左边。

Several times Lord de Winter, Porthos, or Aramis, tried to talk with the man in the red cloak; but to every interrogation which they put to him he bowed, without response. The travelers then comprehended that there must be some reason why the unknown preserved such a silence, and ceased to address themselves to him.
德温特勋爵、波尔托斯或阿拉米斯曾多次试图与红斗篷男子交谈；但对于他们对他的每一次审问，他都鞠躬，没有任何回应。旅行者们明白了，这个未知的人保持如此沉默一定是有原因的，于是不再跟他说话。

The storm increased, the flashes succeeded one another more rapidly, the thunder began to growl, and the wind, the precursor of a hurricane, whistled in the plumes and the hair of the horsemen.
暴风雨愈演愈烈，闪光更加迅速地相继出现，雷声开始咆哮，飓风的前兆，在骑兵的羽毛和头发中呼啸而过。

The cavalcade trotted on more sharply.
队伍小跑得更快了。

A little before they came to Fromelles the storm burst. They spread their cloaks. There remained three leagues to travel, and they did it amid torrents of rain.
就在他们到达弗罗梅尔斯之前不久，暴风雨爆发了。他们展开斗篷。还剩三里格的路程，他们是在倾盆大雨中完成的。

D’Artagnan took off his hat, and could not be persuaded to make use of his cloak. He found pleasure in feeling the water trickle over his burning brow and over his body, agitated by feverish shudders.
达达尼昂摘下帽子，却无法说服他使用他的斗篷。他很高兴地感觉到水流过他灼热的额头和他因发烧而颤抖的身体。

The moment the little troop passed Goskal and were approaching the Port, a man sheltered beneath a tree detached himself from the trunk with which he had been confounded in the darkness, and advanced into the middle of the road, putting his finger on his lips.
当这支小队经过戈斯卡尔，接近港口时，一个躲在树下的男人从黑暗中被他迷惑的树干上取下来，走到路中间，把手指放在嘴唇上。

Athos recognized Grimaud.
阿多斯认出了格里莫。

‘What’s the manner?’ cried Athos. ‘Has she left Armentieres?’
“怎么样？”阿托斯喊道。 “她离开阿芒蒂埃了吗？”

Grimaud made a sign in the affirmative. D’Artagnan groaned his teeth.
格里莫做了一个表示肯定的手势。达达尼昂咬牙切齿。

‘Silence, d’Artagnan!’ said Athos. I have charged myself with this affair. It is for me, then, to interrogate Grimaud.’
“安静，达达尼昂！”阿托斯说道。我已经对这件事负责了。那么，由我来审问格里莫。”

‘Where is she?’ asked Athos.
“她在哪儿？”阿托斯问。

Grimaud extended his hands in the direction of the Lys. ‘Far from here?’ asked Athos.
格里莫向里斯河的方向伸出双手。 “离这里很远吗？”阿托斯问。

Grimaud showed his master his forefinger bent.
格里莫向他的主人展示了他弯曲的食指。

‘Alone?’ asked Athos.
“独自一人？”阿托斯问道。

Grimaud made the sign yes.
格里莫做了个“是”的手势。

‘Gentlemen,’ said Athos, ‘she is alone within half a league of us, in the direction of the river.’
“先生们，”阿托斯说道，“她就在我们半里格以内，就在河边。”

‘That’s well,’ said d’Artagnan. ‘Lead us, Grimaud.’
“那就好，”达达尼昂说。 “引导我们，格里莫。”

Grimaud took his course across the country, and acted as guide to the cavalcade.
格里莫走遍全国，并担任车队的向导。

At the end of five hundred paces, more or less, they came to a rivulet, which they forded.
大约走了五百步，他们来到一条小溪，涉水而过。

By the aid of the lightning they perceived the village of Erquinheim.
借助闪电，他们看到了埃尔奎海姆村。

‘Is she there, Grimaud?’ asked Athos.
“格里莫，她在吗？”阿托斯问道。

Grimaud shook his head negatively.
格里莫否定地摇摇头。

‘Silence, then!’ cried Athos.
“那就安静吧！”阿托斯喊道。

And the troop continued their route.
部队继续前行。

Another flash illuminated all around them. Grimaud extended his arm, and by the bluish splendor of the fiery serpent they distinguished a little isolated house on the banks of the river, within a hundred paces of a ferry.
又一道闪光照亮了他们周围。格里莫伸出手臂，根据火蛇的蓝色光芒，他们辨认出了河岸上一座孤立的小房子，距离渡口不到一百步。

One window was lighted.
一扇窗户亮着灯。

‘Here we are!’ said Athos.
“我们到了！”阿托斯说道。

At this moment a man who had been crouching in a ditch jumped up and came towards them. It was Mousqueton. He pointed his finger to the lighted window.
就在这时，一个原本蹲在沟里的人猛地跳了起来，朝他们这边走来。这是穆斯克顿。他用手指着亮着灯的窗户。

‘She is there,’ said he.
“她在那儿，”他说。

‘And Bazin?’ asked Athos.
“巴赞呢？”阿托斯问。

‘While I watched the window, he guarded the door.’
“当我看着窗户时，他守着门。”

‘Good!’ said Athos. ‘You are good and faithful servants.’
“好！”阿托斯说。 “你们是善良而忠实的仆人。”

Athos sprang from his horse, gave the bridle to Grimaud, and advanced toward the window, after having made a sign to the rest of the troop to go toward the door.
阿多斯从马背上跳下来，把缰绳交给格里莫，向窗外走去，示意其他人朝门口走去。

The little house was surrounded by a low, quickset hedge, two or three feet high. Athos sprang over the hedge and went up to the window, which was without shutters, but had the half-curtains closely drawn.
小房子的周围是两三英尺高的低矮、快速的树篱。阿多斯跳过树篱，走到窗户前，窗户没有百叶窗，但半窗帘拉得很紧。

He mounted the skirting stone that his eyes might look over the curtain.
他登上了踢脚石，这样他的眼睛就可以透过窗帘看到。

By the light of a lamp he saw a woman, wrapped in a dark mantle, seated upon a stool near a dying fire. Her elbows were placed upon a mean table, and she leaned her head upon her two hands, which were white as ivory.
借着灯光，他看到一个女人，裹着深色斗篷，坐在即将熄灭的火旁的凳子上。她的手肘撑在一张简陋的桌子上，头靠在两只洁白如象牙的手上。

He could not distinguish her countenance, but a sinister smile passed over the lips of Athos. He was not deceived; it was she whom he sought.
他看不清她的面容，但阿托斯的嘴角掠过一丝阴险的微笑。他没有被欺骗；他要找的就是她。

At this moment a horse neighed. Milady raised her head, saw close to the panes the pale face of Athos, and screamed.
就在这时，一声马嘶。米莱迪抬起头，看到靠近窗玻璃的阿托斯苍白的脸，尖叫起来。

Athos, perceiving that she knew him, pushed the window with his knee and hand. The window yielded. The squares were broken to shivers; and Athos, like the spectre of vengeance, leaped into the room.
阿托斯察觉到她认识他，就用膝盖和手推开了窗户。窗户屈服了。方块被震碎了；阿多斯像复仇的幽灵一样跳进了房间。

Milady rushed to the door and opened it. More pale and menacing than Athos, d’Artagnan stood on the threshold.
米莱迪冲到门口打开了门。达达尼昂站在门槛上，脸色比阿多斯还要苍白，更具威胁性。

Milady recoiled, uttering a cry. D’Artagnan, believing she might have means of flight and fearing she should escape, drew a pistol from his belt; but Athos raised his hand.
米莱迪向后退了一步，发出一声叫喊。达达尼昂相信她可能有逃跑的办法，并担心她会逃跑，于是从腰带上拔出了一把手枪。但阿托斯举起了手。

‘Put back that weapon, d’Artagnan!’ said he; ‘this woman must be tried, not assassinated. Wait an instant, my friend, and you shall be satisfied. Come in, gentlemen.’
“达达尼昂，把武器放回去！”他说道。 ‘这个女人必须受到审判，而不是被暗杀。等一下，我的朋友，你就会满意的。进来吧，先生们。

D’Artagnan obeyed; for Athos had the solemn voice and the powerful gesture of a judge sent by the Lord himself. Behind d’Artagnan entered Porthos, Aramis, Lord de Winter, and the man in the red cloak.
达达尼昂服从了。因为阿多斯的声音庄严，动作有力，就像主亲自派来的法官一样。达达尼昂身后跟着波尔托斯、阿拉米斯、德温特勋爵和红袍人。

The four lackeys guarded the door and the window.
四个走狗把守着门窗。

Milady had sunk into a chair, with her hands extended, as if to conjure this terrible apparition. Perceiving her brother-in-law, she uttered a terrible cry.
米莱迪一屁股坐在椅子上，双手伸出，仿佛要召唤出这个可怕的幽灵。看到姐夫，她发出一声惨叫。

‘What do you want?’ screamed Milady.
“你想要什么？”米莱迪尖叫道。

‘We want,’ said Athos, ‘Charlotte Backson, who first was called Comtesse de la Fere, and afterwards Milady de Winter, Baroness of Sheffield.’
“我们想要，”阿托斯说，“夏洛特·巴克森，她最初被称为德拉费尔伯爵夫人，后来被称为谢菲尔德男爵夫人米拉迪·德温特。”

‘That is I! that is I!’ murmured Milady, in extreme terror; ‘what do you want?’
‘那是我！ “是我！”米莱迪极度恐惧地低声说道。 '你想要什么？'

‘We wish to judge you according to your crime,’ said Athos; ‘you shall be free to defend yourself. Justify yourself if you can. M. d’Artagnan, it is for you to accuse her first.’
“我们希望根据你的罪行来审判你，”阿托斯说道。 ‘你可以自由地为自己辩护。如果可以的话，为自己辩护。达达尼昂先生，你应该先指控她。

D’Artagnan advanced.
达达尼昂先进了。

‘Before God and before men,’ said he, ‘I accuse this woman of having poisoned Constance Bonacieux, who died yesterday evening.’
“在上帝面前，在人面前，”他说，“我指控这个女人毒害了康斯坦斯·博纳瑟，她昨天晚上死了。”

He turned towards Porthos and Aramis.
他转向波托斯和阿拉米斯。

‘We bear witness to this,’ said the two Musketeers, with one voice.
“我们见证了这一点。”两个火枪手同声说道。

D’Artagnan continued: ‘Before God and before men, I accuse this woman of having attempted to poison me, in wine which she sent me from Villeroy, with a forged letter, as if that wine came from my friends. God preserved me, but a man named Brisemont died in my place.’
达达尼昂继续说道：“在上帝和人们面前，我指控这个女人试图用她从维勒鲁瓦寄给我的酒和一封伪造的信来毒害我，就好像那酒来自我的朋友一样。上帝保护了我，但一个名叫布里斯蒙特的人代替了我而死。”

‘We bear witness to this,’ said Porthos and Aramis, in the same manner as before.
“我们见证了这一点，”波托斯和阿拉米斯以与之前相同的方式说道。

‘Before God and before men, I accuse this woman of having urged me to the murder of the Baron de Wardes; but as no one else can attest the truth of this accusation, I attest it myself. I have done.’ And d’Artagnan passed to the other side of the room with Porthos and Aramis.
“在上帝和人类面前，我指控这个女人怂恿我谋杀瓦尔德男爵；但由于没有人能够证明这一指控的真实性，所以我自己证明这一点。我已经做到了。”达达尼昂与波托斯和阿拉米斯一起走到房间的另一边。

‘Your turn, my Lord,’ said Athos.
“轮到您了，陛下，”阿多斯说道。

The baron came forward.
男爵走上前来。

‘Before God and before men,’ said he, ‘I accuse this woman of having caused the assassination of the Duke of Buckingham.’
“在上帝和人类面前，”他说，“我指控这个女人刺杀了白金汉公爵。”

‘The Duke of Buckingham assassinated!’ cried all present, with one voice.
“白金汉公爵被暗杀了！”在场所有人异口同声地喊道。

‘Yes,’ said the baron, ‘assassinated. On receiving the warning letter you wrote to me, I had this woman arrested, and gave her in charge to a loyal servant. She corrupted this man; she placed the poniard in his hand; she made him kill the duke. And at this moment, perhaps, Felton is paying with his head for the crime of this fury!’
“是的，”男爵说，“被暗杀了。”收到你写给我的警告信后，我逮捕了这个女人，并把她交给了一个忠诚的仆人。她败坏了这个男人；她把匕首放在他手里。她让他杀了公爵。而此时此刻，也许费尔顿正在为这种愤怒的罪行付出生命的代价！

A shudder crept through the judges at the revelation of these unknown crimes.
这些未知罪行的揭露让法官们不寒而栗。

‘That is not all,’ resumed Lord de Winter. ‘My brother, who made you his heir, died in three hours of a strange disorder which left livid traces all over the body. My sister, how did your husband die?’
“这还不是全部，”德温特勋爵继续说道。 “我的兄弟，你让你成为他的继承人，他在三小时内死于一种奇怪的疾病，全身留下了青紫的痕迹。我姐姐，你丈夫是怎么死的？

‘Horror!’ cried Porthos and Aramis.
“太恐怖了！”波托斯和阿拉米斯叫道。

‘Assassin of Buckingham, assassin of Felton, assassin of my brother, I demand justice upon you, and I swear that if it be not granted to me, I will execute it myself.’
“白金汉的刺客，费尔顿的刺客，我兄弟的刺客，我要求对你伸张正义，我发誓，如果不给我伸张正义，我会亲自执行。”

And Lord de Winter ranged himself by the side of d’Artagnan, leaving the place free for another accuser.
德温特勋爵站在达达尼昂身边，把这个地方留给了另一名原告。

Milady let her head sink between her two hands, and tried to recall her ideas, whirling in a mortal vertigo.
米莱迪把头埋在两只手之间，试图回忆起自己的想法，但她却陷入了致命的眩晕之中。

‘My turn,’ said Athos, himself trembling as the lion trembles at the sight of the serpent—‘my turn. I married that woman when she was a young girl; I married her in opposition to the wishes of all my family; I gave her my wealth, I gave her my name; and one day I discovered that this woman was branded—this woman was marked with a FLEUR-DE-LIS on her left shoulder.’
“轮到我了，”阿多斯说道，他自己也像狮子看到蛇一样颤抖——“轮到我了。”当那个女人还是个年轻女孩的时候，我就娶了她。我不顾全家人的反对娶了她；我给了她我的财富，我给了她我的名字；有一天，我发现这个女人被打上了烙印——这个女人的左肩上刻着一朵百合花。

‘Oh,’ said Milady, raising herself, ‘I defy you to find any tribunal which pronounced that infamous sentence against me. I defy you to find him who executed it.’
“哦，”米莱迪站了起来，“我不相信你能找到任何法庭对我宣判那项臭名昭著的判决。我不相信你能找到执行这件事的人。

‘Silence!’ said a hollow voice. ‘It is for me to reply to that!’ And the man in the red cloak came forward in his turn.
“安静！”一个空洞的声音说道。 “这个问题该由我来回答！” 红斗篷男子也上前说道。

‘What man is that? What man is that?’ cried Milady, suffocated by terror, her hair loosening itself, and rising above her livid countenance as if alive.
‘那是什么人？那是什么人？”米莱迪喊道，她因恐惧而窒息，她的头发散落下来，从她苍白的脸上升起，仿佛还活着。

All eyes were turned towards this man—for to all except Athos he was unknown.
所有的目光都转向这个人——因为除了阿托斯之外，所有人都不认识他。

Even Athos looked at him with as much stupefaction as the others, for he knew not how he could in any way find himself mixed up with the horrible drama then unfolded.
就连阿托斯也和其他人一样目瞪口呆地看着他，因为他不知道自己怎么会发现自己卷入了随后展开的可怕戏剧之中。

After approaching Milady with a slow and solemn step, so that the table alone separated them, the unknown took off his mask.
未知者迈着缓慢而庄严的步伐靠近米莱迪，只留下桌子将他们隔开，然后摘下了面具。

Milady for some time examined with increasing terror that pale face, framed with black hair and whiskers, the only expression of which was icy impassibility. Then she suddenly cried, ‘Oh, no, no!’ rising and retreating to the very wall. ‘No, no! it is an infernal apparition! It is not he! Help, help!’ screamed she, turning towards the wall, as if she would tear an opening with her hands.
米莱迪用越来越恐惧的心情审视了他那张苍白的脸，黑色的头发和胡须，唯一的表情是冰冷的冷漠。然后她突然叫道：“哦，不，不！”站起来，退到墙边。 '不，不！这是地狱的幽灵！不是他！救命，救命！”她尖叫着，转向墙壁，仿佛要用双手撕开一个口子。

‘Who are you, then?’ cried all the witnesses of this scene.
“那你是谁？”这一幕的所有目击者都喊道。

‘Ask that woman,’ said the man in the red cloak, ‘for you may plainly see she knows me!’
“去问那个女人吧，”红斗篷男子说道，“你可以清楚地看到她认识我！”

‘The executioner of Lille, the executioner of Lille!’ cried Milady, a prey to insensate terror, and clinging with her hands to the wall to avoid falling.
“里尔的刽子手，里尔的刽子手！”米拉迪喊道，她陷入了无知的恐惧之中，她双手紧紧抓住墙壁，以免摔倒。

Every one drew back, and the man in the red cloak remained standing alone in the middle of the room.
所有人都后退了一步，而红袍男子依然孤零零地站在房间中央。

‘Oh, grace, grace, pardon!’ cried the wretch, falling on her knees.
“噢，天哪，天哪，请原谅！”这个可怜虫跪倒在地，大声喊道。

The unknown waited for silence, and then resumed, ‘I told you well that she would know me. Yes, I am the executioner of Lille, and this is my history.’
未知者等待沉默，然后继续说道：“我早就告诉过你，她会认识我的。”是的，我是里尔的刽子手，这就是我的历史。

All eyes were fixed upon this man, whose words were listened to with anxious attention.
所有人的目光都集中在这个男人的身上，众人焦急地听着他的话。

‘That woman was once a young girl, as beautiful as she is today. She was a nun in the convent of the Benedictines of Templemar. A young priest, with a simple and trustful heart, performed the duties of the church of that convent. She undertook his seduction, and succeeded; she would have seduced a saint.
‘那个女人曾经是一个年轻的女孩，和今天一样美丽。她是坦普尔玛本笃会修道院的一名修女。一位年轻的神父，怀着一颗单纯而信任的心，履行着该修道院教会的职责。她接受了他的诱惑，并且成功了。她会引诱一位圣人。

‘Their vows were sacred and irrevocable. Their connection could not last long without ruining both. She prevailed upon him to leave the country; but to leave the country, to fly together, to reach another part of France, where they might live at ease because unknown, money was necessary. Neither had any. The priest stole the sacred vases, and sold them; but as they were preparing to escape together, they were both arrested.
“他们的誓言是神圣的、不可撤销的。他们的联系不可能持续太久而不毁掉双方。她说服他离开这个国家。但要离开这个国家，一起飞到法国的另一个地方，在那里他们可以安心地生活，因为未知，金钱是必要的。两者都没有。牧师偷走了神圣的花瓶并把它们卖掉了。但当他们准备一起逃跑时，却双双被捕。

‘Eight days later she had seduced the son of the jailer, and escaped. The young priest was condemned to ten years of imprisonment, and to be branded. I was executioner of the city of Lille, as this woman has said. I was obliged to brand the guilty one; and he, gentlemen, was my brother!
“八天后，她引诱了狱卒的儿子，然后逃跑了。这位年轻的牧师被判处十年监禁，并被烙上烙印。正如这位女士所说，我是里尔市的刽子手。我不得不给有罪的人打上烙印；先生们，他是我的兄弟！

‘I then swore that this woman who had ruined him, who was more than his accomplice, since she had urged him to the crime, should at least share his punishment. I suspected where she was concealed. I followed her, I caught her, I bound her; and I imprinted the same disgraceful mark upon her that I had imprinted upon my poor brother.
“然后我发誓，这个毁了他的女人，既然是她怂恿他犯罪，那么她不仅仅是他的同谋，至少应该分担他的惩罚。”我怀疑她藏在哪里。我跟随她，我抓住她，我束缚她；我在她身上也烙下了同样不光彩的印记，就像我在我可怜的弟弟身上烙印的一样。

‘The day after my return to Lille, my brother in his turn succeeded in making his escape; I was accused of complicity, and was condemned to remain in his place till he should be again a prisoner. My poor brother was ignorant of this sentence. He rejoined this woman; they fled together into Berry, and there he obtained a little curacy. This woman passed for his sister.
“我回到里尔的第二天，我的兄弟也成功逃脱了；我被指控为同谋，并被判处继续担任他的职务，直到他再次成为囚犯。我可怜的弟弟对这句话一无所知。他又回到了这个女人身边。他们一起逃到贝里，他在那里得到了一点神职人员的帮助。这个女人被误认为是他的妹妹。

‘The Lord of the estate on which the chapel of the curacy was situated saw this pretend sister, and became enamoured of her—amorous to such a degree that he proposed to marry her. Then she quitted him she had ruined for him she was destined to ruin, and became the Comtesse de la Fere—‘
“神甫礼拜堂所在庄园的领主看到了这个假装的妹妹，并爱上了她——爱到了要娶她为妻的程度。然后她离开了他，她为他毁掉了她注定要毁掉的一切，成了德拉费尔伯爵夫人——”

All eyes were turned towards Athos, whose real name that was, and who made a sign with his head that all was true which the executioner had said.
所有的目光都转向阿托斯，他的真名是他，他用头做了个手势，表明刽子手所说的一切都是真的。

‘Then,’ resumed he, ‘mad, desperate, determined to get rid of an existence from which she had stolen everything, honor and happiness, my poor brother returned to Lille, and learning the sentence which had condemned me in his place, surrendered himself, and hanged himself that same night from the iron bar of the loophole of his prison.
“然后，”他继续说道，“我可怜的弟弟疯狂、绝望、决心摆脱她偷走了一切、荣誉和幸福的存在，回到了里尔，得知了对我的判决，他投降了。”当天晚上，他就在监狱漏洞的铁栏上上吊自杀了。

‘To do justice to them who had condemned me, they kept their word. As soon as the identity of my brother was proved, I was set at liberty.
“为了给那些谴责我的人伸张正义，他们遵守了诺言。当我哥哥的身份得到证实后，我就获得了自由。

‘That is the crime of which I accuse her; that is the cause for which she was branded.’
“这就是我指控她的罪行；这就是她被打上烙印的原因。

‘Monsieur d’Artagnan,’ said Athos, ‘what is the penalty you demand against this woman?’
“达达尼昂先生，”阿托斯说道，“您要求对这个女人判处什么刑罚？”

‘The punishment of death,’ replied d’Artagnan.
“死刑，”达达尼昂回答道。

‘My Lord de Winter,’ continued Athos, ‘what is the penalty you demand against this woman?’
“德温特大人，”阿多斯继续说道，“您要求对这个女人判处什么刑罚？”

‘The punishment of death,’ replied Lord de Winter.
“死刑，”德温特勋爵回答。

‘Messieurs Porthos and Aramis,’ repeated Athos, ‘you who are her judges, what is the sentence you pronounce upon this woman?’
“波托斯先生和阿拉米斯先生，”阿托斯重复道，“你们是她的法官，你们对这个女人的判决是什么？”

‘The punishment of death,’ replied the Musketeers, in a hollow voice.
“死刑。”火枪手们用空洞的声音回答。

Milady uttered a frightful shriek, and dragged herself along several paces upon her knees toward her judges.
米莱迪发出一声可怕的尖叫，拖着膝盖朝法官们走了几步。

Athos stretched out his hand toward her.
阿托斯向她伸出手。

‘Charlotte Backson, Comtesse de la Fere, Milady de Winter,’ said he, ‘your crimes have wearied men on earth and God in heaven. If you know a prayer, say it—for you are condemned, and you shall die.’
“夏洛特·巴克森、拉菲尔伯爵夫人、德·温特夫人，”他说道，“你们的罪行让地上的人们和天上的上帝都感到疲倦。如果你知道一个祈祷词，就说出来——因为你被定罪了，你会死。

At these words, which left no hope, Milady raised herself in all her pride, and wished to speak; but her strength failed her. She felt that a powerful and implacable hand seized her by the hair, and dragged her away as irrevocably as fatality drags humanity. She did not, therefore, even attempt the least resistance, and went out of the cottage.
听了这番毫无希望的话语，米莱迪骄傲地站了起来，想要说话。但她的力量失败了。她感觉有一只强大而无情的手抓住了她的头发，将她拖走，就像命运拖拽着人性一样。于是，她连一丝反抗的力气都没有，就走出了小屋。

Lord de Winter, d’Artagnan, Athos, Porthos, and Aramis, went out close behind her. The lackeys followed their masters, and the chamber was left solitary, with its broken window, its open door, and its smoky lamp burning sadly on the table.
德·温特勋爵、达达尼昂、阿托斯、波尔托斯和阿拉米斯紧随其后走出去。仆人们跟着他们的主人走，房间里只剩下孤零零的一个人，窗户破了，门开着，桌上的油灯在桌子上悲伤地燃烧着。

66 EXECUTION
66 执行

It was near midnight; the moon, lessened by its decline, and reddened by the last traces of the storm, arose behind the little town of Armentieres, which showed against its pale light the dark outline of its houses, and the skeleton of its high belfry. In front of them the Lys rolled its waters like a river of molten tin; while on the other side was a black mass of trees, profiled on a stormy sky, invaded by large coppery clouds which created a sort of twilight amid the night. On the left was an old abandoned mill, with its motionless wings, from the ruins of which an owl threw out its shrill, periodical, and monotonous cry. On the right and on the left of the road, which the dismal procession pursued, appeared a few low, stunted trees, which looked like deformed dwarfs crouching down to watch men traveling at this sinister hour.
时间已近午夜。月亮因落日而减弱，又因暴风雨的最后痕迹而变红，在阿芒蒂埃小镇后面升起，在苍白的光线下，映照出小镇房屋的黑色轮廓和高高的钟楼的骨架。在他们面前，利斯河的河水像一条熔化的锡河一样翻滚。另一边是一大片黑色的树木，在暴风雨的天空中轮廓分明，大片铜色云朵侵入，在夜色中营造出一种暮色。左边是一座废弃的旧磨坊，它的翅膀一动不动，废墟中一只猫头鹰发出尖锐、周期性、单调的叫声。悲凉的队伍所追赶的路的左右两侧，出现了几棵低矮的矮树，它们看起来像畸形的小矮人，在这不祥的时刻蹲着，注视着行进的人们。

From time to time a broad sheet of lightning opened the horizon in its whole width, darted like a serpent over the black mass of trees, and like a terrible scimitar divided the heavens and the waters into two parts. Not a breath of wind now disturbed the heavy atmosphere. A deathlike silence oppressed all nature. The soil was humid and glittering with the rain which had recently fallen, and the refreshed herbs sent forth their perfume with additional energy.
时不时地，一道宽阔的闪电将整个地平线打开，像一条蛇一样在黑色的树林上猛冲，又像一把可怕的弯刀将天和水分成两部分。现在没有一丝风扰乱这沉重的气氛。死一般的寂静压迫着整个大自然。刚刚下过的雨，土壤湿润，闪闪发亮，清新的药草散发着额外的能量香气。

Two lackeys dragged Milady, whom each held by one arm. The executioner walked behind them, and Lord de Winter, d’Artagnan, Porthos, and Aramis walked behind the executioner. Planchet and Bazin came last.
两个仆人拖着米莱迪，每人挽着她的一只手臂。刽子手走在他们身后，德温特勋爵、达达尼昂、波尔托斯和阿拉米斯走在刽子手身后。普兰切特和巴赞排在最后。

The two lackeys conducted Milady to the bank of the river. Her mouth was mute; but her eyes spoke with their inexpressible eloquence, supplicating by turns each of those on whom she looked.
两个仆人带着米莱迪来到了河边。她的嘴哑了；但她的眼睛却有着难以言喻的雄辩，轮流向她所注视的每一个人祈求。

Being a few paces in advance she whispered to the lackeys, ‘A thousand pistoles to each of you, if you will assist my escape; but if you deliver me up to your masters, I have near at hand avengers who will make you pay dearly for my death.’
她在前面几步远的地方低声对仆人们说：“如果你们愿意帮助我逃脱，你们每人给我一千皮斯托尔；但如果你把我交给你的主人，我附近就有复仇者，他们会让你为我的死付出高昂的代价。

Grimaud hesitated. Mousqueton trembled in all his members.
格里莫犹豫了。穆斯克顿的所有成员都在颤抖。

Athos, who heard Milady’s voice, came sharply up. Lord de Winter did the same.
阿托斯听到米莱迪的声音，猛地站了起来。温特勋爵也做了同样的事。

‘Change these lackeys,’ said he; ‘she has spoken to them. They are no longer sure.’
“换掉这些走狗吧，”他说。 ‘她已经和他们谈过了。他们不再确定了。

Planchet and Bazin were called, and took the places of Grimaud and Mousqueton.
普朗谢特和巴赞被召集，接替格里莫和穆斯克东。

On the bank of the river the executioner approached Milady, and bound her hands and feet.
河岸上，刽子手走近米莱迪，绑住了她的手脚。

Then she broke the silence to cry out, ‘You are cowards, miserable assassins—ten men combined to murder one woman. Beware! If I am not saved I shall be avenged.’
然后她打破了沉默，大声喊道：“你们是胆小鬼，可悲的刺客——十个男人联手谋杀了一个女人。”谨防！如果我没有得救，我就会遭到报复。”

‘You are not a woman,’ said Athos, coldly and sternly. ‘You do not belong to the human species; you are a demon escaped from hell, whither we send you back again.’
“你不是女人，”阿托斯冷酷而严厉地说。 ‘你不属于人类；你是从地狱逃出来的恶魔，我们又把你送回地狱了。”

‘Ah, you virtuous men!’ said Milady; ‘please to remember that he who shall touch a hair of my head is himself an assassin.’
“啊，你们这些有道德的人！”米莱迪说道。 “请记住，凡是敢动我一根头发的人，他自己就是一名刺客。”

‘The executioner may kill, without being on that account an assassin,’ said the man in the red cloak, rapping upon his immense sword. ‘This is the last judge; that is all. NACHRICHTER, as say our neighbors, the Germans.’
“刽子手可以杀人，但并不因此而成为刺客。”身穿红斗篷的男子一边说，一边敲击着他那把巨大的剑。 ‘这是最后的法官；就这些。 NACHRICHTER，正如我们的邻居德国人所说。

And as he bound her while saying these words, Milady uttered two or three savage cries, which produced a strange and melancholy effect in flying away into the night, and losing themselves in the depths of the woods.
当他一边捆绑她一边说这句话时，米莱迪发出了两三声野蛮的叫声，产生了一种奇怪而忧郁的效果，飞入夜色，迷失在树林深处。

‘If I am guilty, if I have committed the crimes you accuse me of,’ shrieked Milady, ‘take me before a tribunal. You are not judges! You cannot condemn me!’
“如果我有罪，如果我犯了你指控我的罪行，”米莱迪尖叫道，“就把我带上法庭。”你们不是法官！你不能谴责我！

‘I offered you Tyburn,’ said Lord de Winter. ‘Why did you not accept it?’
“我向你提出了泰伯恩，”德温特勋爵说道。 “你为什么不接受？”

‘Because I am not willing to die!’ cried Milady, struggling. ‘Because I am too young to die!’
“因为我不愿意死！”米莱迪挣扎着喊道。 “因为我还太年轻，不能死！”

‘The woman you poisoned at Bethune was still younger than you, madame, and yet she is dead,’ said d’Artagnan.
“你在白求恩毒死的那个女人还比你年轻，夫人，但她已经死了，”达达尼昂说。

‘I will enter a cloister; I will become a nun,’ said Milady.
“我将进入一座修道院；我要成为一名修女，”米莱迪说。

‘You were in a cloister,’ said the executioner, ‘and you left it to ruin my brother.’
“你在修道院里，”刽子手说，“你离开它是为了毁掉我的兄弟。”

Milady uttered a cry of terror and sank upon her knees. The executioner took her up in his arms and was carrying her toward the boat.
米莱迪发出一声惊恐的叫声，跪倒在地。刽子手将她抱起来，正往船上走去。

‘Oh, my God!’ cried she, ‘my God! are you going to drown me?’
“哦，我的上帝！”她喊道，“我的上帝！”你要淹死我吗？

These cries had something so heartrending in them that M. d’Artagnan, who had been at first the most eager in pursuit of Milady, sat down on the stump of a tree and hung his head, covering his ears with the palms of his hands; and yet, notwithstanding, he could still hear her cry and threaten.
这些叫喊声令人心碎，以至于一开始最热衷于追寻米莱迪的达达尼昂先生坐在树桩上，低下头，用手掌捂住耳朵。 ;然而，尽管如此，他仍然能听到她的哭泣和威胁。

D’Artagnan was the youngest of all these men. His heart failed him.
达达尼昂是这些人中最年轻的一个。他的心失望了。

‘Oh, I cannot behold this frightful spectacle!’ said he. ‘I cannot consent that this woman should die thus!’
“哦，我无法看到这可怕的景象！”他说道。 “我不能同意这个女人就这样死去！”

Milady heard these few words and caught at a shadow of hope.
米莱迪听到这几句话，心中燃起一丝希望。

‘d’Artagnan, d’Artagnan!’ cried she; ‘remember that I loved you!’
“达达尼昂，达达尼昂！”她喊道。 “记住我爱你！”

The young man rose and took a step toward her.
年轻人站起身来，朝她走了一步。

But Athos rose likewise, drew his sword, and placed himself in the way.
但阿多斯同样站了起来，拔出剑，挡在了路上。

‘If you take one step farther, d’Artagnan,’ said he, ‘we shall cross swords together.’
“达达尼昂，如果你再向前迈出一步，”他说道，“我们就会一起交锋。”

D’Artagnan sank on his knees and prayed.
达达尼昂跪下祈祷。

‘Come,’ continued Athos, ‘executioner, do your duty.’
“来吧，”阿托斯继续说道，“刽子手，履行你的职责。”

‘Willingly, monseigneur,’ said the executioner; ‘for as I am a good Catholic, I firmly believe I am acting justly in performing my functions on this woman.’
“愿意，大人，”刽子手说。 “因为我是一名虔诚的天主教徒，我坚信我在这个女人身上履行我的职责是公正的。”

‘That’s well.’
“那就好。”

Athos made a step toward Milady.
阿托斯向米莱迪迈出了一步。

‘I pardon you,’ said he, ‘the ill you have done me. I pardon you for my blasted future, my lost honor, my defiled love, and my salvation forever compromised by the despair into which you have cast me. Die in peace!’
“我原谅你，”他说，“你对我造成的伤害。”我原谅你，因为你让我陷入了绝望，我的未来、我失去的荣誉、我被玷污的爱，以及我的救赎永远受到损害。安详地死去吧！

Lord de Winter advanced in his turn.
德温特勋爵依次上前。

‘I pardon you,’ said he, ‘for the poisoning of my brother, and the assassination of his Grace, Lord Buckingham. I pardon you for the death of poor Felton; I pardon you for the attempts upon my own person. Die in peace!’
“我原谅你，”他说，“毒害了我的兄弟，刺杀了白金汉勋爵陛下。我原谅你可怜的费尔顿的死；我原谅你对我本人的企图。安详地死去吧！

‘And I,’ said M. d’Artagnan. ‘Pardon me, madame, for having by a trick unworthy of a gentleman provoked your anger; and I, in exchange, pardon you the murder of my poor love and your cruel vengeance against me. I pardon you, and I weep for you. Die in peace!’
“还有我，”达达尼昂先生说。 “请原谅我，夫人，我用了一个不符合绅士身份的伎俩激起了您的愤怒；作为交换，我原谅你谋杀我可怜的爱人和你对我的残酷报复。我原谅你，我为你哭泣。安详地死去吧！

‘I am lost!’ murmured Milady in English. ‘I must die!’
“我迷路了！”米莱迪用英语低声说道。 “我必须死！”

Then she arose of herself, and cast around her one of those piercing looks which seemed to dart from an eye of flame.
然后她站了起来，向四周投去一种锐利的目光，仿佛是从一只火焰之眼中射出的。

She saw nothing; she listened, and she heard nothing.
她什么也没看见；她听着，但什么也没听到。

‘Where am I to die?’ said she.
“我该死在哪里呢？”她说道。

‘On the other bank,’ replied the executioner.
“在对岸。”刽子手回答道。

Then he placed her in the boat, and as he was going to set foot in it himself, Athos handed him a sum of silver.
然后他把她放在船上，当他自己要上船时，阿多斯递给他一笔银子。

‘Here,’ said he, ‘is the price of the execution, that it may be plain we act as judges.’
他说：“这是执行死刑的代价，这样我们就可以清楚地看出我们是作为法官行事的。”

‘That is correct,’ said the executioner; ‘and now in her turn, let this woman see that I am not fulfilling my trade, but my debt.’
“这是正确的，”刽子手说。 “现在轮到这个女人了，我不是在履行我的生意，而是在履行我的债务。”

And he threw the money into the river.
然后他把钱扔进河里。

The boat moved off toward the left-hand shore of the Lys, bearing the guilty woman and the executioner; all the others remained on the righthand bank, where they fell on their knees.
小船载着有罪的女人和刽子手，向里斯河的左岸驶去。其他人都留在右岸，跪倒在地。

The boat glided along the ferry rope under the shadow of a pale cloud which hung over the water at that moment.
此时，水面上飘浮着一片苍白的云彩，小船沿着渡船绳索滑行。

The troop of friends saw it gain the opposite bank; the figures were defined like black shadows on the red-tinted horizon.
朋友们看到它到达了对岸。这些人物就像红色地平线上的黑色阴影。

Milady, during the passage had contrived to untie the cord which fastened her feet. On coming near the bank, she jumped lightly on shore and took to flight. But the soil was moist; on reaching the top of the bank, she slipped and fell upon her knees.
米莱迪在路上设法解开了绑住她脚的绳子。快到岸边时，她轻轻跳上岸，然后逃跑了。但土壤是湿润的；到达岸顶时，她滑倒并跪倒在地。

She was struck, no doubt, with a superstitious idea; she conceived that heaven denied its aid, and she remained in the attitude in which she had fallen, her head drooping and her hands clasped.
毫无疑问，她受到了一种迷信的影响。她认为上天拒绝了她的帮助，她仍然保持着倒下时的姿势，低着头，双手紧握。

Then they saw from the other bank the executioner raise both his arms slowly; a moonbeam fell upon the blade of the large sword. The two arms fell with a sudden force; they heard the hissing of the scimitar and the cry of the victim, then a truncated mass sank beneath the blow.
这时，他们看见对岸的刽子手缓缓举起双臂。一道月光落在了大剑的剑刃上。两只手臂突然用力落下；他们听到了弯刀的嘶嘶声和受害者的哭声，然后，一团被截断的东西在打击下沉没了。

The executioner then took off his red cloak, spread it upon the ground, laid the body in it, threw in the head, tied all up by the four corners, lifted it on his back, and entered the boat again.
刽子手便脱下红袍，铺在地上，把尸体放进去，把头扔进去，用四个角绑起来，背在背上，又上了船。

In the middle of the stream he stopped the boat, and suspending his burden over the water cried in a loud voice, ‘Let the justice of God be done!’ and he let the corpse drop into the depths of the waters, which closed over it.
他在溪中央停下了船，把自己的担子悬在水面上，大声呼喊：“愿上帝伸张正义！”然后他把尸体扔进了水的深处，水淹没了水。它。

Three days afterward the four Musketeers were in Paris; they had not exceeded their leave of absence, and that same evening they went to pay their customary visit to M. de Treville.
三天后，四名火枪手抵达巴黎。他们没有超过休假期限，当天晚上，他们按照惯例去拜访德特雷维尔先生。

‘Well, gentlemen,’ said the brave captain, ‘I hope you have been well amused during your excursion.’
“好吧，先生们，”勇敢的船长说道，“我希望你们在这次旅行中玩得开心。”

‘Prodigiously,’ replied Athos in the name of himself and his comrades.
“太棒了，”阿多斯以他自己和战友的名义回答道。

67 CONCLUSION
67 结论

On the sixth of the following month the king, in compliance with the promise he had made the cardinal to return to La Rochelle, left his capital still in amazement at the news which began to spread itself of Buckingham’s assassination.
下个月六日，国王遵守了他向红衣主教返回拉罗谢尔的承诺，离开首都时，白金汉遇刺的消息开始四处传播，他仍然对此事感到惊讶。

Although warned that the man she had loved so much was in great danger, the queen, when his death was announced to her, would not believe the fact, and even imprudently exclaimed, ‘it is false; he has just written to me!’
尽管王后警告说，她深爱的男人正面临巨大危险，但当她得知他的死讯时，她却不相信这个事实，甚至轻率地惊呼：“这是假的；这是假的；这是假的；这是假的；这是假的；这是假的；这是假的；这是假的；这是假的；这是假的；这是假的；这是假的；这是假的”。”他刚刚写信给我！

But the next day she was obliged to believe this fatal intelligence; Laporte, detained in England, as everyone else had been, by the orders of Charles I, arrived, and was the bearer of the duke’s dying gift to the queen.
但第二天她不得不相信这个致命的情报；拉波尔特和其他人一样，按照查理一世的命令被拘留在英格兰，他抵达了，并且是公爵送给女王的临终礼物的携带者。

The joy of the king was lively. He did not even give himself the trouble to dissemble, and displayed it with affectation before the queen. Louis XIII, like every weak mind, was wanting in generosity.
国王的喜悦是热烈的。他连掩饰都不屑一顾，在王后面前矫情地表现出来。路易十三像所有软弱的人一样，缺乏慷慨。

But the king soon again became dull and indisposed; his brow was not one of those that long remain clear. He felt that in returning to camp he should re-enter slavery; nevertheless, he did return.
但国王很快又变得迟钝、不舒服。他的眉头并不是那种长久以来都清晰的眉头。他觉得回到营地后他应该重新成为奴隶。尽管如此，他还是回来了。

The cardinal was for him the fascinating serpent, and himself the bird which flies from branch to branch without power to escape.
对他来说，红衣主教是一条迷人的蛇，而他自己则是一只从树枝飞到树枝而无法逃脱的鸟。

The return to La Rochelle, therefore, was profoundly dull. Our four friends, in particular, astonished their comrades; they traveled together, side by side, with sad eyes and heads lowered. Athos alone from time to time raised his expansive brow; a flash kindled in his eyes, and a bitter smile passed over his lips, then, like his comrades, he sank again into reverie.
因此，返回拉罗谢尔的旅程非常无聊。尤其是我们的四个朋友，让他们的同志们感到惊讶。他们并肩同行，眼神悲伤，低着头。只有阿多斯一个人，时不时地扬起他宽阔的眉毛。他眼中闪过一丝光芒，嘴角掠过一抹苦笑，然后，像他的战友们一样，再次陷入了沉思。

As soon as the escort arrived in a city, when they had conducted the king to his quarters the four friends either retired to their own or to some secluded cabaret, where they neither drank nor played; they only conversed in a low voice, looking around attentively to see that no one overheard them.
护卫队一到达城市，就把国王带到他的住所，四个朋友要么回到自己的地方，要么到某个僻静的歌舞厅，在那里他们既不喝酒也不玩耍；他们只是低声交谈，小心地环顾四周，没有人听见。

One day, when the king had halted to fly the magpie, and the four friends, according to their custom, instead of following the sport had stopped at a cabaret on the high road, a man coming from la Rochelle on horseback pulled up at the door to drink a glass of wine, and darted a searching glance into the room where the four Musketeers were sitting.
有一天，当国王停下来放喜鹊时，四个朋友按照他们的习惯，没有去观看这项运动，而是在大路上的一家歌舞厅停下来，一个从拉罗谢尔骑马而来的男子在喜鹊停了下来。进门喝了一杯酒，然后向四个火枪手坐着的房间扫了一眼。

‘Holloa, Monsieur d’Artagnan!’ said he, ‘is not that you whom I see yonder?’
“喂，达达尼昂先生！”他说道，“我在那边看到的不是你吗？”

D’Artagnan raised his head and uttered a cry of joy. It was the man he called his phantom; it was his stranger of Meung, of the Rue des Fossoyeurs and of Arras.
达达尼昂抬起头，发出一声喜悦的叫喊。他称这个人为他的幻影。这是他从默恩、福索耶尔街和阿拉斯来的陌生人。

D’Artagnan drew his sword, and sprang toward the door.
达达尼昂拔出剑，向门口跳去。

But this time, instead of avoiding him the stranger jumped from his horse, and advanced to meet d’Artagnan.
但这一次，陌生人没有避开他，而是从马上跳下来，迎向达达尼昂。

‘Ah, monsieur!’ said the young man, ‘I meet you, then, at last! This time you shall not escape me!’
“啊，先生！”年轻人说道，“那么，我终于见到你了！”这次你逃不过我的追击了！”

‘Neither is it my intention, monsieur, for this time I was seeking you; in the name of the king, I arrest you.’
“先生，这一次我来找你也不是我的本意。以国王的名义，我逮捕你。”

‘How! what do you say?’ cried d’Artagnan.
'如何！ “你说什么？”达达尼昂喊道。

‘I say that you must surrender your sword to me, monsieur, and that without resistance. This concerns your head, I warn you.’
“我说你必须把你的剑交给我，先生，而且不要反抗。我警告你，这关系到你的头脑。

‘Who are you, then?’ demanded d’Artagnan, lowering the point of his sword, but without yet surrendering it.
“那么，你是谁？”达达尼昂问道，放下了剑尖，但还没有投降。

‘I am the Chevalier de Rochefort,’ answered the other, ‘the equerry of Monsieur le Cardinal Richelieu, and I have orders to conduct you to his Eminence.’
“我是罗什福尔骑士，”对方答道，“黎塞留红衣主教先生的侍从，我奉命带您去见主教阁下。”

‘We are returning to his Eminence, monsieur the Chevalier,’ said Athos, advancing; ‘and you will please to accept the word of Monsieur d’Artagnan that he will go straight to La Rochelle.’
“我们要回殿下了，骑士先生，”阿多斯一边说着，一边走上前去。 “请您接受达达尼昂先生的话，他将直接前往拉罗谢尔。”

‘I must place him in the hands of guards who will take him into camp.’
“我必须把他交给卫兵，他们会把他带进营地。”

‘We will be his guards, monsieur, upon our word as gentlemen; but likewise, upon our word as gentlemen,’ added Athos, knitting his brow, ‘Monsieur d’Artagnan shall not leave us.’
“先生，我们将作为他的守卫，以绅士的身份保证我们的诺言；但同样，以我们先生的身份，”阿多斯皱起眉头补充道，“达达尼昂先生不会离开我们。”

The Chevalier de Rochefort cast a glance backward, and saw that Porthos and Aramis had placed themselves between him and the gate; he understood that he was completely at the mercy of these four men.
罗什福尔骑士回头看了一眼，发现波尔托斯和阿拉米斯已经站在他和大门之间了。他明白，自己已经完全被这四个人摆布了。

‘Gentlemen,’ said he, ‘if Monsieur d’Artagnan will surrender his sword to me and join his word to yours, I shall be satisfied with your promise to convey Monsieur d’Artagnan to the quarters of Monseigneur the Cardinal.’
“先生们，”他说，“如果达达尼昂先生愿意将剑交给我，并向你们承诺，我将对你们承诺将达达尼昂先生带到红衣主教大人的住所感到满意。”

‘You have my word, monsieur, and here is my sword.’
“我向你保证，先生，这是我的剑。”

‘This suits me the better,’ said Rochefort, ‘as I wish to continue my journey.’
“这更适合我，”罗什福尔说，“因为我希望继续我的旅程。”

‘If it is for the purpose of rejoining Milady,’ said Athos, coolly, ‘it is useless; you will not find her.’
“如果是为了与米莱迪团聚，”阿托斯冷冷地说，“那是没有用的；你不会找到她的。

‘What has become of her, then?’ asked Rochefort, eagerly.
“那么她怎么样了？”罗什福尔急切地问道。

‘Return to camp and you shall know.’
“回到营地你就会知道了。”

Rochefort remained for a moment in thought; then, as they were only a day’s journey from Surgeres, whither the cardinal was to come to meet the king, he resolved to follow the advice of Athos and go with them. Besides, this return offered him the advantage of watching his prisoner.
罗什福尔沉思了一会儿。然后，由于他们距离苏热雷斯只有一天的路程，红衣主教要去那里会见国王，所以他决定听从阿托斯的建议，和他们一起去。此外，这次返回给他提供了监视囚犯的优势。

They resumed their route.
他们又继续了他们的路线。

On the morrow, at three o’clock in the afternoon, they arrived at Surgeres. The cardinal there awaited Louis XIII. The minister and the king exchanged numerous caresses, felicitating each other upon the fortunate chance which had freed France from the inveterate enemy who set all Europe against her. After which, the cardinal, who had been informed that d’Artagnan was arrested and who was anxious to see him, took leave of the king, inviting him to come the next day to view the work already done upon the dyke.
第二天下午三点，他们到达了苏杰雷斯。红衣主教在那里等待着路易十三。大臣和国王多次互相爱抚，互相祝贺有幸将法国从与整个欧洲作对的宿敌手中解放出来。此后，得知达达尼昂被捕并急于见到他的红衣主教向国王告别，邀请他第二天来参观堤坝上已经完成的工作。

On returning in the evening to his quarters at the bridge of La Pierre, the cardinal found, standing before the house he occupied, d’Artagnan, without his sword, and the three Musketeers armed.
晚上，红衣主教回到拉皮埃尔桥的住所时，发现达达尼昂站在他住的房子前，没有带剑，而三个火枪手则全副武装。

This time, as he was well attended, he looked at them sternly, and made a sign with his eye and hand for d’Artagnan to follow him.
这一次，由于周围的人很多，他严厉地看着他们，并用眼睛和手示意达达尼昂跟上他。

D’Artagnan obeyed.
达达尼昂服从了。

‘We shall wait for you, d’Artagnan,’ said Athos, loud enough for the cardinal to hear him.
“我们会等你，达达尼昂，”阿托斯说道，声音足够大，红衣主教也能听到。

His Eminence bent his brow, stopped for an instant, and then kept on his way without uttering a single word.
殿下眉头一皱，停顿了一下，便一言不发，继续上路。

D’Artagnan entered after the cardinal, and behind d’Artagnan the door was guarded.
达达尼昂跟随红衣主教进来，达达尼昂身后的门有人把守。

His Eminence entered the chamber which served him as a study, and made a sign to Rochefort to bring in the young Musketeer.
主教阁下走进他用作书房的房间，向罗什福尔示意，请这位年轻的火枪手进来。

Rochefort obeyed and retired.
罗什福尔服从了，然后退了出去。

D’Artagnan remained alone in front of the cardinal; this was his second interview with Richelieu, and he afterward confessed that he felt well assured it would be his last.
达达尼昂独自一人站在红衣主教面前。这是他第二次接受黎塞留的采访，他后来承认，他确信这将是他的最后一次采访。

Richelieu remained standing, leaning against the mantelpiece; a table was between him and d’Artagnan.
黎塞留仍然站着，靠在壁炉架上。他和达达尼昂之间有一张桌子。

‘Monsieur,’ said the cardinal, ‘you have been arrested by my orders.’
“先生，”红衣主教说道，“你是按照我的命令被捕的。”

‘So they tell me, monseigneur.’
“他们是这么告诉我的，大人。”

‘Do you know why?’
'你知道为什么吗？'

‘No, monseigneur, for the only thing for which I could be arrested is still unknown to your Eminence.’
“不，大人，陛下仍然不知道我唯一可能被捕的原因。”

Richelieu looked steadfastly at the young man.
黎塞留目光坚定地看着年轻人。

‘Holloa!’ said he, ‘what does that mean?’
“喂！”他说，“这是什么意思？”

‘If Monseigneur will have the goodness to tell me, in the first place, what crimes are imputed to me, I will then tell him the deeds I have really done.’
“如果大人能首先告诉我，我犯下了哪些罪行，那么我就会告诉他我真正做过的事。”

‘Crimes are imputed to you which had brought down far loftier heads than yours, monsieur,’ said the cardinal.
“先生，你所犯下的罪行让比你高得多的人都被打倒了。”红衣主教说道。

‘What, monseigneur?’ said d’Artagnan, with a calmness which astonished the cardinal himself.
“什么，大人？”达达尼昂问道，语气中的平静让红衣主教自己都感到惊讶。

‘You are charged with having corresponded with the enemies of the kingdom; you are charged with having surprised state secrets; you are charged with having tried to thwart the plans of your general.’
“你被指控与王国的敌人通信；你被指控泄露国家机密；你被指控试图阻挠将军的计划。

‘And who charges me with this, monseigneur?’ said d’Artagnan, who had no doubt the accusation came from Milady, ‘a woman branded by the justice of the country; a woman who has espoused one man in France and another in England; a woman who poisoned her second husband and who attempted both to poison and assassinate me!’
“大人，谁指控我这样做？”达达尼昂说道，他毫不怀疑这一指控来自米莱迪，“一个被国家正义打上烙印的女人；一名妇女在法国与一名男子结婚，在英国与另一名男子结婚；一个女人毒害了她的第二任丈夫，还企图毒害和刺杀我！”

‘What do you say, monsieur?’ cried the cardinal, astonished; ‘and of what woman are you speaking thus?’
“您说什么，先生？”红衣主教惊讶地喊道。 “你这样说是指哪个女人？”

‘Of Milady de Winter,’ replied d’Artagnan, ‘yes, of Milady de Winter, of whose crimes your Eminence is doubtless ignorant, since you have honored her with your confidence.’
“关于德·温特夫人，”达达尼昂答道，“是的，关于德·温特夫人，阁下无疑对她的罪行一无所知，因为您对她充满信心。”

‘Monsieur,’ said the cardinal, ‘if Milady de Winter has committed the crimes you lay to her charge, she shall be punished.’
“先生，”红衣主教说道，“如果德温特夫人犯下了您指控的罪行，她将受到惩罚。”

‘She has been punished, monseigneur.’
“她受到了惩罚，大人。”

‘And who has punished her?’
“谁惩罚了她？”

‘We.’
'我们。'

‘She is in prison?’
“她在监狱里？”

‘She is dead.’
'她死了。'

‘Dead!’ repeated the cardinal, who could not believe what he heard, ‘dead! Did you not say she was dead?’
“死了！”红衣主教重复道，他简直不敢相信自己所听到的，“死了！”你不是说她死了吗？

‘Three times she attempted to kill me, and I pardoned her; but she murdered the woman I loved. Then my friends and I took her, tried her, and condemned her.’
“她三次企图杀我，我都原谅了她；但她谋杀了我爱的女人。然后我和我的朋友们抓住了她，审判了她，并谴责了她。

D’Artagnan then related the poisoning of Mme. Bonacieux in the convent of the Carmelites at Bethune, the trial in the isolated house, and the execution on the banks of the Lys.
达达尼昂随后讲述了夫人中毒的事。博纳希厄在白求恩的加尔默罗修道院进行审判，在偏僻的房子里进行审判，在利斯河岸上执行死刑。

A shudder crept through the body of the cardinal, who did not shudder readily.
红衣主教全身一阵颤抖，但他并没有轻易颤抖。

But all at once, as if undergoing the influence of an unspoken thought, the countenance of the cardinal, till then gloomy, cleared up by degrees, and recovered perfect serenity.
但突然间，仿佛受到某种无言的思绪的影响，红衣主教原本阴郁的脸色渐渐变得明朗起来，恢复了完美的平静。

‘So,’ said the cardinal, in a tone that contrasted strongly with the severity of his words, ‘you have constituted yourselves judges, without remembering that they who punish without license to punish are assassins?’
“这么说，”红衣主教的语气与他言语的严肃性形成鲜明对比，“你们自封为法官，却不记得那些未经许可实施惩罚的人是刺客？”

‘Monseigneur, I swear to you that I never for an instant had the intention of defending my head against you. I willingly submit to any punishment your Eminence may please to inflict upon me. I do not hold life dear enough to be afraid of death.’
“大人，我向您发誓，我从来没有想过要保护我的头来对抗您。我愿意接受陛下对我施加的任何惩罚。我对生命的热爱还不足以让我害怕死亡。”

‘Yes, I know you are a man of a stout heart, monsieur,’ said the cardinal, with a voice almost affectionate; ‘I can therefore tell you beforehand you shall be tried, and even condemned.’
“是的，我知道您是一个心地善良的人，先生，”红衣主教说道，声音近乎亲切。 “因此，我可以事先告诉你，你将受到审判，甚至被定罪。”

‘Another might reply to your Eminence that he had his pardon in his pocket. I content myself with saying: Command, monseigneur; I am ready.’
“另一个人可能会回答阁下说，他口袋里有赦免书。我满足于说：指挥，大人；我已经准备好了。'

‘Your pardon?’ said Richelieu, surprised.
“请原谅？”黎塞留惊讶地说。

‘Yes, monseigneur,’ said d’Artagnan.
“是的，大人，”达达尼昂说。

‘And signed by whom—by the king?’ And the cardinal pronounced these words with a singular expression of contempt.
“由谁签署的——由国王签署的？”红衣主教以一种奇特的轻蔑表情说出了这句话。

‘No, by your Eminence.’
“不，陛下。”

‘By me? You are insane, monsieur.’
'由我？你疯了，先生。

‘Monseigneur will doubtless recognize his own handwriting.’
“大人无疑会认出他自己的笔迹。”

And d’Artagnan presented to the cardinal the precious piece of paper which Athos had forced from Milady, and which he had given to d’Artagnan to serve him as a safeguard.
达达尼昂向红衣主教展示了阿多斯从米莱迪那里强行夺来的那张珍贵的文件，他把它交给了达达尼昂作为他的保护。

His Eminence took the paper, and read in a slow voice, dwelling upon every syllable:
陛下接过纸，用缓慢的声音读着每一个音节：

‘Dec. 3, 1627
‘十二月。 3, 1627

‘It is by my order and for the good of the state that the bearer of this has done what he has done.
‘这是我的命令，也是为了国家的利益，这封信的持有者做了他所做的事情。

‘RICHELIEU”
‘黎塞留’

The cardinal, after having read these two lines, sank into a profound reverie; but he did not return the paper to d’Artagnan.
红衣主教读完这两句话，陷入了沉思。但他没有把文件还给达达尼昂。

‘He is meditating by what sort of punishment he shall cause me to die,’ said the Gascon to himself. ‘Well, my faith! he shall see how a gentleman can die.’
“他正在考虑用什么样的惩罚来处死我。”加斯科尼人自言自语道。 ‘好吧，我的信仰！他将看到一位绅士如何死去。

The young Musketeer was in excellent disposition to die heroically.
这位年轻的火枪手准备好英勇地死去。

Richelieu still continued thinking, rolling and unrolling the paper in his hands.
黎塞留仍在思考，手中的纸卷着又展开。

At length he raised his head, fixed his eagle look upon that loyal, open, and intelligent countenance, read upon that face, furrowed with tears, all the sufferings its possessor had endured in the course of a month, and reflected for the third or fourth time how much there was in that youth of twenty-one years before him, and what resources his activity, his courage, and his shrewdness might offer to a good master. On the other side, the crimes, the power, and the infernal genius of Milady had more than once terrified him. He felt something like a secret joy at being forever relieved of this dangerous accomplice.
最后，他抬起头，用鹰般的目光注视着那张忠诚、开放、聪明的脸，在那张泪流满面的脸上读到了它的拥有者在一个月的时间里所遭受的所有痛苦，并反思了第三或第三年。第四次，他面前的那个二十一岁的年轻人有多少东西，他的活动、他的勇气和他的精明可以为一个好主人提供什么资源。另一方面，米莱迪的罪行、权力和地狱般的天才不止一次让他感到恐惧。他感到一种隐秘的喜悦，因为他永远摆脱了这个危险的同谋。

Richelieu slowly tore the paper which d’Artagnan had generously relinquished.
黎塞留慢慢地撕开了达达尼昂慷慨交出的那张纸。

‘I am lost!’ said d’Artagnan to himself. And he bowed profoundly before the cardinal, like a man who says, ‘Lord, Thy will be done!’
“我迷路了！”达达尼昂自言自语道。他在红衣主教面前深深地鞠了一躬，就像一个人在说：“主啊，愿您的旨意得到实现！”

The cardinal approached the table, and without sitting down, wrote a few lines upon a parchment of which two-thirds were already filled, and affixed his seal.
红衣主教走到桌边，没有坐下，在一张已经填了三分之二的羊皮纸上写了几行字，然后盖上了印章。

‘That is my condemnation,’ thought d’Artagnan; ‘he will spare me the ENNUI of the Bastille, or the tediousness of a trial. That’s very kind of him.’
“这就是我的谴责，”达达尼昂想。 “他会让我免于巴士底狱的倦怠，或者审判的乏味。他真是太好了。

‘Here, monsieur,’ said the cardinal to the young man. ‘I have taken from you one CARTE BLANCHE to give you another. The name is wanting in this commission; you can write it yourself.’
“这里，先生，”红衣主教对年轻人说。 “我从你那里拿走了一张全权委托书，然后再给你一张。”这个委员会中缺少这个名字；你可以自己写。

D’Artagnan took the paper hesitatingly and cast his eyes over it; it was a lieutenant’s commission in the Musketeers.
达达尼昂犹豫地接过那张纸，目光落在上面。这是火枪手中的一名中尉。

D’Artagnan fell at the feet of the cardinal.
达达尼昂倒在红衣主教脚下。

‘Monseigneur,’ said he, ‘my life is yours; henceforth dispose of it. But this favor which you bestow upon me I do not merit. I have three friends who are more meritorious and more worthy—‘
“大人，”他说，“我的命是你的；从此以后将其丢弃。但你给予我的这份恩惠我并不值得。我有三个朋友，他们比较有功，比较值得——’

‘You are a brave youth, d’Artagnan,’ interrupted the cardinal, tapping him familiarly on the shoulder, charmed at having vanquished this rebellious nature. ‘Do with this commission what you will; only remember, though the name be blank, it is to you I give it.’
“你是个勇敢的年轻人，达达尼昂，”红衣主教打断了他的话，并亲切地拍着他的肩膀，为自己战胜了这种叛逆的本性而着迷。 ‘用这个委托做你想做的事；只要记住，虽然名字是空白的，但我是给你的。

‘I shall never forget it,’ replied d’Artagnan. ‘Your Eminence may be certain of that.’
“我永远不会忘记它，”达达尼昂回答道。 “陛下对此可以肯定。”

The cardinal turned and said in a loud voice, ‘Rochefort!’ The chevalier, who no doubt was near the door, entered immediately.
红衣主教转过身来，大声说道：“罗什福尔！” 骑士无疑就在门边，他立即走了进来。

‘Rochefort,’ said the cardinal, ‘you see Monsieur d’Artagnan. I receive him among the number of my friends. Greet each other, then; and be wise if you wish to preserve your heads.’
“罗什福尔，”红衣主教说，“您看到达达尼昂先生了。”我在我的朋友中接待了他。那么，互相问候一下；如果你想保住自己的头脑，就得明智点。”

Rochefort and d’Artagnan coolly greeted each other with their lips; but the cardinal was there, observing them with his vigilant eye.
罗什福尔和达达尼昂冷冷地用嘴唇打招呼。但红衣主教就在那里，用警惕的目光观察着他们。

They left the chamber at the same time.
他们同时离开了密室。

‘We shall meet again, shall we not, monsieur?’
“我们还会再见面的，不是吗，先生？”

‘When you please,’ said d’Artagnan.
“只要你愿意，”达达尼昂说。

‘An opportunity will come,’ replied Rochefort.
“机会将会到来，”罗什福尔回答道。

‘Hey?’ said the cardinal, opening the door.
“嘿？”红衣主教打开门说道。

The two men smiled at each other, shook hands, and saluted his Eminence.
两人相视一笑，握手，行礼。

‘We were beginning to grow impatient,’ said Athos.
“我们开始变得不耐烦了，”阿托斯说。

‘Here I am, my friends,’ replied d’Artagnan; ‘not only free, but in favor.’
“我在这里，我的朋友们，”达达尼昂回答道。 “不仅免费，而且有利于。”

‘Tell us about it.’
“告诉我们吧。”

‘This evening; but for the moment, let us separate.’
‘今天晚上；但现在，让我们分开吧。

Accordingly, that same evening d’Artagnan repaired to the quarters of Athos, whom he found in a fair way to empty a bottle of Spanish wine—an occupation which he religiously accomplished every night.
因此，当天晚上，达达尼昂前往阿多斯的住处，他发现阿多斯以一种公平的方式倒空了一瓶西班牙葡萄酒——这是他每晚虔诚地完成的一项工作。

D’Artagnan related what had taken place between the cardinal and himself, and drawing the commission from his pocket, said, ‘Here, my dear Athos, this naturally belongs to you.’
达达尼昂讲述了红衣主教和他自己之间发生的事情，然后从口袋里掏出委托书，说道：“这里，我亲爱的阿托斯，这自然属于你。”

Athos smiled with one of his sweet and expressive smiles.
阿多斯微笑着，笑容甜美而富有表现力。

‘Friend,’ said he, ‘for Athos this is too much; for the Comte de la Fere it is too little. Keep the commission; it is yours. Alas! you have purchased it dearly enough.’
“朋友，”他说，“对阿多斯来说，这太过分了；对于德拉费尔伯爵来说，这太少了。保留佣金；这是你的。唉!你买得够贵的了。

D’Artagnan left Athos’s chamber and went to that of Porthos. He found him clothed in a magnificent dress covered with splendid embroidery, admiring himself before a glass.
达达尼昂离开阿托斯的房间，前往波托斯的房间。他发现他穿着一件华丽的衣服，上面绣着华丽的刺绣，正在镜子前欣赏自己。

‘Ah, ah! is that you, dear friend?’ exclaimed Porthos. ‘How do you think these garments fit me?’
'啊啊！是你吗，亲爱的朋友？”波尔托斯惊呼道。 “你觉得这些衣服适合我吗？”

‘Wonderfully,’ said d’Artagnan; but I come to offer you a dress which will become you still better.’
“太棒了，”达达尼昂说。但我来是为了给你一件衣服，它会让你变得更好。”

‘What?’ asked Porthos.
“什么？”波托斯问道。

‘That of a lieutenant of Musketeers.’
“那是一位火枪手中尉的名字。”

D’Artagnan related to Porthos the substance of his interview with the cardinal, and said, taking the commission from his pocket, ‘Here, my friend, write your name upon it and become my chief.’
达达尼昂向波尔托斯讲述了他会见红衣主教的内容，并从口袋里掏出委任状说：“在这里，我的朋友，在上面写下你的名字，成为我的首领。”

Porthos cast his eyes over the commission and returned it to d’Artagnan, to the great astonishment of the young man.
波尔托斯看了一眼委托书，然后把它还给了达达尼昂，这让年轻人大吃一惊。

‘Yes,’ said he, ‘yes, that would flatter me very much; but I should not have time enough to enjoy the distinction. During our expedition to Bethune the husband of my duchess died; so, my dear, the coffer of the defunct holding out its arms to me, I shall marry the widow. Look here! I was trying on my wedding suit. Keep the lieutenancy, my dear, keep it.’
“是的，”他说，“是的，这让我很受宠若惊。”但我应该没有足够的时间来享受这种区别。在我们远征白求恩期间，我公爵夫人的丈夫去世了。所以，亲爱的，已故者的金库向我伸出双臂，我将娶那个寡妇。看这里！我正在试穿我的结婚礼服。保留中尉职位，亲爱的，保留它。

The young man then entered the apartment of Aramis. He found him kneeling before a PRIEDIEU with his head leaning on an open prayer book.
随后年轻人进入了阿拉米斯的公寓。他发现他跪在普里迪厄面前，头靠在一本打开的祈祷书上。

He described to him his interview with the cardinal, and said, for the third time drawing his commission from his pocket, ‘You, our friend, our intelligence, our invisible protector, accept this commission. You have merited it more than any of us by your wisdom and your counsels, always followed by such happy results.’
他向他描述了他与红衣主教的会面，并第三次从口袋里掏出他的委托书，说道：“你，我们的朋友，我们的情报，我们隐形的保护者，接受这个委托。”你比我们任何人都更值得拥有它，因为你的智慧和建议，总是伴随着如此幸福的结果。

‘Alas, dear friend!’ said Aramis, ‘our late adventures have disgusted me with military life. This time my determination is irrevocably taken. After the siege I shall enter the house of the Lazarists. Keep the commission, d’Artagnan; the profession of arms suits you. You will be a brave and adventurous captain.’
“唉，亲爱的朋友！”阿拉米斯说，“我们最近的冒险让我对军事生活感到厌恶。这一次，我的决心已经坚定了。围困结束后，我将进入拉撒路人的家。保留委托，达达尼昂；武器职业适合你。你将成为一名勇敢而富有冒险精神的船长。”

D’Artagnan, his eye moist with gratitude though beaming with joy, went back to Athos, whom he found still at table contemplating the charms of his last glass of Malaga by the light of his lamp.
达达尼昂的眼睛因喜悦而湿润，同时又充满了感激之情，他回到阿托斯身边，发现阿托斯仍在餐桌旁，在灯下沉思着最后一杯马拉加葡萄酒的魅力。

‘Well,’ said he, ‘they likewise have refused me.’
“好吧，”他说，“他们同样拒绝了我。”

‘That, dear friend, is because nobody is more worthy than yourself.’
“亲爱的朋友，那是因为没有人比你自己更有价值。”

He took a quill, wrote the name of d’Artagnan in the commission, and returned it to him.
他拿起一支羽毛笔，在委托书上写下了达达尼昂的名字，然后还给了他。

‘I shall then have no more friends,’ said the young man. ‘Alas! nothing but bitter recollections.’
“那样我就没有朋友了，”年轻人说。 '唉！除了痛苦的回忆之外什么也没有。”

And he let his head sink upon his hands, while two large tears rolled down his cheeks.
他把头埋在双手上，两行大泪从他的脸颊上滚落下来。

‘You are young,’ replied Athos; ‘and your bitter recollections have time to change themselves into sweet remembrances.’
“你还年轻，”阿托斯回答道。 “你的痛苦回忆有时间变成甜蜜回忆。”

EPILOGUE
结语

La Rochelle, deprived of the assistance of the English fleet and of the diversion promised by Buckingham, surrendered after a siege of a year. On the twenty-eighth of October, 1628, the capitulation was signed.
拉罗谢尔失去了英国舰队的援助和白金汉承诺的改道，在围困一年后投降。 1628年10月28日，投降书签署。

The king made his entrance into Paris on the twenty-third of December of the same year. He was received in triumph, as if he came from conquering an enemy and not Frenchmen. He entered by the Faubourg St. Jacques, under verdant arches.
同年十二月二十三日，国王进入巴黎。他受到了胜利的欢迎，就好像他是战胜了敌人而不是法国人一样。他从圣雅克郊区翠绿的拱门下进入。

D’Artagnan took possession of his command. Porthos left the service, and in the course of the following year married Mme. Coquenard; the coffer so much coveted contained eight hundred thousand livres.
达达尼昂接管了他的指挥权。波尔托斯退伍，并于次年与夫人结婚。科克纳德；令人垂涎的金库里有八十万里弗。

Mousqueton had a magnificent livery, and enjoyed the satisfaction of which he had been ambitious all his life—that of standing behind a gilded carriage.
穆斯克顿有着华丽的制服，并享受着他一生都雄心勃勃的满足感——站在一辆镀金马车后面。

Aramis, after a journey into Lorraine, disappeared all at once, and ceased to write to his friends; they learned at a later period through Mme. de Chevreuse, who told it to two or three of her intimates, that, yielding to his vocation, he had retired into a convent—only into which, nobody knew.
阿拉米斯在前往洛林一趟之后，立刻失踪了，也不再给他的朋友们写信。他们后来通过夫人了解到。德·谢弗勒斯告诉她的两三个密友，他因工作原因隐退到了一座修道院——只是没有人知道是在哪。

Bazin became a lay brother.
巴赞成为一名平信徒弟兄。

Athos remained a Musketeer under the command of d’Artagnan till the year 1633, at which period, after a journey he made to Touraine, he also quit the service, under the pretext of having inherited a small property in Roussillon.
阿托斯一直是达达尼昂麾下的一名火枪手，直到 1633 年，在这段时间，他在前往都兰旅行后，也借口继承了鲁西永的一小块财产而退出了军队。

Grimaud followed Athos.
格里莫跟着阿托斯。

D’Artagnan fought three times with Rochefort, and wounded him three times.
达达尼昂与罗什福尔三度交战，并三度受伤。

‘I shall probably kill you the fourth,’ said he to him, holding out his hand to assist him to rise.
“第四个我可能会杀了你，”他对他说，伸出手扶他站起来。

‘It is much better both for you and for me to stop where we are,’ answered the wounded man. ‘CORBLEU—I am more your friend than you think—for after our very first encounter, I could by saying a word to the cardinal have had your throat cut!’
“对我和你来说，最好就地停下来。”受伤的人回答道。 “科布卢——我比你想象的更像你的朋友——因为在我们第一次见面之后，我只要对红衣主教说一句话，就能割断你的喉咙！”

They this time embraced heartily, and without retaining any malice.
这一次，他们真心相拥，没有半点恶意。

Planchet obtained from Rochefort the rank of sergeant in the Piedmont regiment.
普朗谢特从罗什福尔那里获得了皮埃蒙特军团的中士军衔。

M. Bonacieux lived on very quietly, wholly ignorant of what had become of his wife, and caring very little about it. One day he had the imprudence to recall himself to the memory of the cardinal. The cardinal had him informed that he would provide for him so that he should never want for anything in future. In fact, M. Bonacieux, having left his house at seven o’clock in the evening to go to the Louvre, never appeared again in the Rue des Fossoyeurs; the opinion of those who seemed to be best informed was that he was fed and lodged in some royal castle, at the expense of his generous Eminence.
博纳希厄先生过着平静的生活，完全不知道他妻子的遭遇，也很少关心。有一天，他鲁莽地想起了红衣主教的记忆。红衣主教告诉他，他会供养他，这样他以后就不会再有任何需要了。事实上，博纳西厄先生晚上七点钟离开家去卢浮宫后，就再也没有出现在福苏耶街。那些似乎最了解情况的人的意见是，他在某个皇家城堡里吃住，而牺牲了他慷慨的主教。