Utopia
乌托邦
Utopia
乌托邦
INTRODUCTION
介绍
DISCOURSES OF RAPHAEL HYTHLODAY, OF THE BEST STATE OF A COMMONWEALTH
拉斐尔·希洛迪的论述，关于联邦的最佳状态
OF THEIR TOWNS, PARTICULARLY OF AMAUROT
他们的城镇，特别是阿莫罗特
OF THEIR MAGISTRATES
他们的治安官
OF THEIR TRADES, AND MANNER OF LIFE
他们的行业和生活方式
OF THEIR TRAFFIC
他们的交通
OF THE TRAVELLING OF THE UTOPIANS
乌托邦人的旅行
OF THEIR SLAVES, AND OF THEIR MARRIAGES
他们的奴隶和他们的婚姻
OF THEIR MILITARY DISCIPLINE
他们的军事纪律
OF THE RELIGIONS OF THE UTOPIANS
乌托邦宗教


Utopia
乌托邦

By Thomas More
托马斯·莫尔

INTRODUCTION
介绍

Sir Thomas More, son of Sir John More, a justice of the King’s Bench, was born in 1478, in Milk Street, in the city of London. After his earlier education at St. Anthony’s School, in Threadneedle Street, he was placed, as a boy, in the household of Cardinal John Morton, Archbishop of Canterbury and Lord Chancellor. It was not unusual for persons of wealth or influence and sons of good families to be so established together in a relation of patron and client. The youth wore his patron’s livery, and added to his state. The patron used, afterwards, his wealth or influence in helping his young client forward in the world. Cardinal Morton had been in earlier days that Bishop of Ely whom Richard III. sent to the Tower; was busy afterwards in hostility to Richard; and was a chief adviser of Henry VII., who in 1486 made him Archbishop of Canterbury, and nine months afterwards Lord Chancellor. Cardinal Morton—of talk at whose table there are recollections in ‘Utopia’delighted in the quick wit of young Thomas More. He once said, ‘Whoever shall live to try it, shall see this child here waiting at table prove a notable and rare man.’
托马斯·莫尔爵士 (Sir Thomas More) 是国王法官约翰·莫尔爵士 (Sir John More) 的儿子，1478 年出生于伦敦市牛奶街。在针线街的圣安东尼学校接受早期教育后，他小时候被安置在坎特伯雷大主教兼大法官红衣主教约翰·莫顿的家里。对于有钱有势的人和出身名门的人来说，建立起赞助人与受托人的关系并不罕见。这位年轻人穿着他赞助人的制服，为他的国家增添了光彩。后来，赞助人利用他的财富或影响力帮助他的年轻客户在世界上前进。莫顿红衣主教早些时候曾担任理查三世的伊利主教。发送到塔；后来忙着对理查德怀有敌意。他是亨利七世的首席顾问，亨利七世于 1486 年任命他为坎特伯雷大主教，九个月后又任命为大法官。莫顿枢机主教在餐桌上回忆起“乌托邦”，他对年轻的托马斯·莫尔的机智感到高兴。他曾经说过：“无论谁有生之年尝试一下，都会看到这个在餐桌旁等候的孩子是一位著名的、罕见的人。”

At the age of about nineteen, Thomas More was sent to Canterbury College, Oxford, by his patron, where he learnt Greek of the first men who brought Greek studies from Italy to England—William Grocyn and Thomas Linacre. Linacre, a physician, who afterwards took orders, was also the founder of the College of Physicians. In 1499, More left Oxford to study law in London, at Lincoln’s Inn, and in the next year Archbishop Morton died.
大约十九岁时，托马斯·莫尔被他的赞助人送到牛津坎特伯雷学院，在那里他学习了希腊语，这是第一批将希腊研究从意大利带到英国的人——威廉·格罗辛和托马斯·利纳克尔。利纳克尔是一位医生，后来奉命行事，也是医师学院的创始人。 1499 年，莫尔离开牛津前往伦敦林肯律师学院学习法律，次年莫顿大主教去世。

More’s earnest character caused him while studying law to aim at the subduing of the flesh, by wearing a hair shirt, taking a log for a pillow, and whipping himself on Fridays. At the age of twenty-one he entered Parliament, and soon after he had been called to the bar he was made Under-Sheriff of London. In 1503 he opposed in the House of Commons Henry VII.’s proposal for a subsidy on account of the marriage portion of his daughter Margaret; and he opposed with so much energy that the House refused to grant it. One went and told the king that a beardless boy had disappointed all his expectations. During the last years, therefore, of Henry VII. More was under the displeasure of the king, and had thoughts of leaving the country.
莫尔的认真性格使他在学习法律时就以征服肉体为目标，穿着毛衬衫，用木头当枕头，每周五鞭打自己。二十一岁时，他进入议会，获得律师资格后不久，他就被任命为伦敦副警长。 1503年，他以女儿玛格丽特的婚姻部分为由，在下议院反对亨利七世提出的补贴提案；他强烈反对，以致众议院拒绝批准。其中一个人去告诉国王，一个没有胡子的男孩辜负了他的所有期望。因此，在亨利七世的最后几年。莫尔因国王不满，萌生了出国的念头。

Henry VII. died in April, 1509, when More’s age was a little over thirty. In the first years of the reign of Henry VIII. he rose to large practice in the law courts, where it is said he refused to plead in cases which he thought unjust, and took no fees from widows, orphans, or the poor. He would have preferred marrying the second daughter of John Colt, of New Hall, in Essex, but chose her elder sister, that he might not subject her to the discredit of being passed over.
亨利七世。 1509 年 4 月去世，当时莫尔 30 岁出头。在亨利八世统治的最初几年。他在法庭上的地位很高，据说他拒绝为他认为不公正的案件辩护，并且不向寡妇、孤儿或穷人收取任何费用。他本来更愿意娶埃塞克斯郡纽霍尔的约翰·柯尔特的二女儿为妻，但他选择了她的姐姐，以免让她蒙受被忽视的耻辱。

In 1513 Thomas More, still Under-Sheriff of London, is said to have written his ‘History of the Life and Death of King Edward V., and of the Usurpation of Richard III.’ The book, which seems to contain the knowledge and opinions of More’s patron, Morton, was not printed until 1557, when its writer had been twenty-two years dead. It was then printed from a MS. in More’s handwriting.
1513 年，托马斯·莫尔（Thomas More），当时仍担任伦敦副治安官，据说写下了《爱德华五世国王的生死史，以及理查三世的篡位史》。莫尔的赞助人莫顿的意见直到 1557 年才得以印刷，当时其作者已去世 22 年。然后从 MS 打印它。莫尔的笔迹。

In the year 1515 Wolsey, Archbishop of York, was made Cardinal by Leo X.; Henry VIII. made him Lord Chancellor, and from that year until 1523 the King and the Cardinal ruled England with absolute authority, and called no parliament. In May of the year 1515 Thomas More—not knighted yet—was joined in a commission to the Low Countries with Cuthbert Tunstal and others to confer with the ambassadors of Charles V., then only Archduke of Austria, upon a renewal of alliance. On that embassy More, aged about thirtyseven, was absent from England for six months, and while at Antwerp he established friendship with Peter Giles (Latinised AEgidius), a scholarly and courteous young man, who was secretary to the municipality of Antwerp.
1515年，约克大主教沃尔西被利奥十世任命为红衣主教；亨利八世。任命他为大法官，从那一年到 1523 年，国王和红衣主教以绝对权威统治英格兰，并且不召集议会。 1515 年 5 月，托马斯·莫尔（尚未被封为爵士）与卡斯伯特·坦斯塔尔等人一起参加了一个前往低地国家的委员会，与当时只有奥地利大公的查理五世的大使商讨更新联盟事宜。在那个使馆期间，莫尔大约三十七岁，离开英国六个月，在安特卫普期间，他与彼得·贾尔斯（拉丁语埃吉迪乌斯）建立了友谊，彼得·贾尔斯是一位博学而有礼貌的年轻人，当时担任安特卫普市政府秘书。

Cuthbert Tunstal was a rising churchman, chancellor to the Archbishop of Canterbury, who in that year (1515) was made Archdeacon of Chester, and in May of the next year (1516) Master of the Rolls. In 1516 he was sent again to the Low Countries, and More then went with him to Brussels, where they were in close companionship with Erasmus.
卡斯伯特·通斯塔尔 (Cuthbert Tunstal) 是一位冉冉升起的牧师，坎特伯雷大主教的大臣，同年（1515 年）被任命为切斯特大执事，并于次年（1516 年）5 月被任命为主教。 1516 年，他再次被派往低地国家，随后莫尔随他前往布鲁塞尔，在那里他们与伊拉斯谟密切相伴。

More’s ‘Utopia’ was written in Latin, and is in two parts, of which the second, describing the place ([Greek text]—or Nusquama, as he called it sometimes in his letters—‘Nowhere’), was probably written towards the close of 1515; the first part, introductory, early in 1516. The book was first printed at Louvain, late in 1516, under the editorship of Erasmus, Peter Giles, and other of More’s friends in Flanders. It was then revised by More, and printed by Frobenius at Basle in November, 1518. It was reprinted at Paris and Vienna, but was not printed in England during More’s lifetime. Its first publication in this country was in the English translation, made in Edward’s VI.’s reign (1551) by Ralph Robinson. It was translated with more literary skill by Gilbert Burnet, in 1684, soon after he had conducted the defence of his friend Lord William Russell, attended his execution, vindicated his memory, and been spitefully deprived by James II. of his lectureship at St. Clement’s. Burnet was drawn to the translation of ‘Utopia’ by the same sense of unreason in high places that caused More to write the book. Burnet’s is the translation given in this volume.
莫尔的《乌托邦》是用拉丁文写成的，分为两部分，其中第二部分描述了这个地方（[希腊语文本]——或努斯夸玛，他有时在信中这样称呼它——“无处”），可能是为了1515收盘；第一部分是介绍性内容，出版于 1516 年初。该书于 1516 年底在鲁汶首次印刷，由伊拉斯谟、彼得·贾尔斯和莫尔在佛兰德斯的其他朋友编辑。随后莫尔对其进行了修订，并于 1518 年 11 月由弗罗贝尼乌斯在​​巴塞尔印刷。该书在巴黎和维也纳重印，但莫尔在世期间并未在英国印刷。该书在该国的首次出版是英文译本，由拉尔夫·罗宾逊于爱德华六世统治时期（1551 年）出版。 1684 年，吉尔伯特·伯内特 (Gilbert Burnet) 为他的朋友威廉·罗素勋爵 (Lord William Russell) 辩护，参加了对他的处决，维护了对他的记忆，并被詹姆斯二世 (James II) 恶意剥夺了权利，不久后，他以更具文学技巧的方式翻译了这本书。他在圣克莱门特学院的演讲。伯内特被《乌托邦》的翻译所吸引，与莫尔写这本书的原因相同。伯内特的译本是本卷中给出的。

The name of the book has given an adjective to our language—we call an impracticable scheme Utopian. Yet, under the veil of a playful fiction, the talk is intensely earnest, and abounds in practical suggestion. It is the work of a scholarly and witty Englishman, who attacks in his own way the chief political and social evils of his time. Beginning with fact, More tells how he was sent into Flanders with Cuthbert Tunstal, ‘whom the king’s majesty of late, to the great rejoicing of all men, did prefer to the office of Master of the Rolls;’ how the commissioners of Charles met them at Bruges, and presently returned to Brussels for instructions; and how More then went to Antwerp, where he found a pleasure in the society of Peter Giles which soothed his desire to see again his wife and children, from whom he had been four months away. Then fact slides into fiction with the finding of Raphael Hythloday (whose name, made of two Greek words [Greek text] and [Greek text], means ‘knowing in trifles’), a man who had been with Amerigo Vespucci in the three last of the voyages to the new world lately discovered, of which the account had been first printed in 1507, only nine years before Utopia was written.
这本书的名字给我们的语言起了一个形容词——我们把不切实际的计划称为乌托邦。然而，在有趣的小说的面纱下，谈话是非常认真的，并且充满了实际的建议。这是一位博学而机智的英国人的作品，他以自己的方式攻击了他那个时代的主要政治和社会罪恶。莫尔从事实开始，讲述了他是如何与卡斯伯特·通斯塔尔一起被派往佛兰德斯的，“近来国王陛下确实更喜欢他，而不是劳斯莱斯大师的职位；”查理的专员们是如何会见的他们在布鲁日，不久就返回布鲁塞尔接受指示；然后莫尔去了安特卫普，在那里他在彼得·吉尔斯的陪伴下找到了乐趣，这安抚了他再次见到妻子和孩子的愿望，而他已经离开他们四个月了。然后，随着拉斐尔·希斯洛迪（Raphael Hythloday）的发现，事实变成了虚构（他的名字由两个希腊词[希腊语文本]和[希腊语文本]组成，意思是“在琐事中了解”），一个在过去的三个世纪中与亚美利哥·韦斯普奇在一起的人。本书首次出版于 1507 年，仅比《乌托邦》成书早九年。

Designedly fantastic in suggestion of details, ‘Utopia’ is the work of a scholar who had read Plato’s ‘Republic,’ and had his fancy quickened after reading Plutarch’s account of Spartan life under Lycurgus. Beneath the veil of an ideal communism, into which there has been worked some witty extravagance, there lies a noble English argument. Sometimes More puts the case as of France when he means England. Sometimes there is ironical praise of the good faith of Christian kings, saving the book from censure as a political attack on the policy of Henry VIII. Erasmus wrote to a friend in 1517 that he should send for More’s ‘Utopia,’ if he had not read it, and ‘wished to see the true source of all political evils.’ And to More Erasmus wrote of his book, ‘A burgomaster of Antwerp is so pleased with it that he knows it all by heart.’
《乌托邦》在细节暗示方面精心设计，是一位学者的作品，他读过柏拉图的《理想国》，并在阅读普鲁塔克对莱库格斯统治下的斯巴达生活的描述后，他的想象力加速了。在理想共产主义的面纱之下，有一些诙谐的夸张，隐藏着一种高贵的英国论点。有时，当莫尔指的是英格兰时，他会以法国为例。有时会对基督教国王的善意进行讽刺性的赞扬，使这本书免遭谴责，被认为是对亨利八世政策的政治攻击。 1517 年，伊拉斯谟写信给一位朋友，如果他还没有读过莫尔的《乌托邦》，他应该派人去取来，并且“希望看到所有政治罪恶的真正根源。”伊拉斯谟在给莫尔的信中谈到了他的书，“一位市长”安特卫普的人对此非常满意，以至于他都熟记于心。

H. M.
H.M.

DISCOURSES OF RAPHAEL HYTHLODAY, OF THE BEST STATE OF A COMMONWEALTH
拉斐尔·希洛迪的论述，关于联邦的最佳状态

Henry VIII., the unconquered King of England, a prince adorned with all the virtues that become a great monarch, having some differences of no small consequence with Charles the most serene Prince of Castile, sent me into Flanders, as his ambassador, for treating and composing matters between them. I was colleague and companion to that incomparable man Cuthbert Tonstal, whom the King, with such universal applause, lately made Master of the Rolls; but of whom I will say nothing; not because I fear that the testimony of a friend will be suspected, but rather because his learning and virtues are too great for me to do them justice, and so well known, that they need not my commendations, unless I would, according to the proverb, ‘Show the sun with a lantern.’ Those that were appointed by the Prince to treat with us, met us at Bruges, according to agreement; they were all worthy men. The Margrave of Bruges was their head, and the chief man among them; but he that was esteemed the wisest, and that spoke for the rest, was George Temse, the Provost of Casselsee: both art and nature had concurred to make him eloquent: he was very learned in the law; and, as he had a great capacity, so, by a long practice in affairs, he was very dexterous at unravelling them. After we had several times met, without coming to an agreement, they went to Brussels for some days, to know the Prince’s pleasure; and, since our business would admit it, I went to Antwerp. While I was there, among many that visited me, there was one that was more acceptable to me than any other, Peter Giles, born at Antwerp, who is a man of great honour, and of a good rank in his town, though less than he deserves; for I do not know if there be anywhere to be found a more learned and a better bred young man; for as he is both a very worthy and a very knowing person, so he is so civil to all men, so particularly kind to his friends, and so full of candour and affection, that there is not, perhaps, above one or two anywhere to be found, that is in all respects so perfect a friend: he is extraordinarily modest, there is no artifice in him, and yet no man has more of a prudent simplicity. His conversation was so pleasant and so innocently cheerful, that his company in a great measure lessened any longings to go back to my country, and to my wife and children, which an absence of four months had quickened very much. One day, as I was returning home from mass at St. Mary’s, which is the chief church, and the most frequented of any in Antwerp, I saw him, by accident, talking with a stranger, who seemed past the flower of his age; his face was tanned, he had a long beard, and his cloak was hanging carelessly about him, so that, by his looks and habit, I concluded he was a seaman. As soon as Peter saw me, he came and saluted me, and as I was returning his civility, he took me aside, and pointing to him with whom he had been discoursing, he said, ‘Do you see that man? I was just thinking to bring him to you.’ I answered, ‘He should have been very welcome on your account.’ ‘And on his own too,’ replied he, ‘if you knew the man, for there is none alive that can give so copious an account of unknown nations and countries as he can do, which I know you very much desire.’ ‘Then,’ said I, ‘I did not guess amiss, for at first sight I took him for a seaman.’ ‘But you are much mistaken,’ said he, ‘for he has not sailed as a seaman, but as a traveller, or rather a philosopher. This Raphael, who from his family carries the name of Hythloday, is not ignorant of the Latin tongue, but is eminently learned in the Greek, having applied himself more particularly to that than to the former, because he had given himself much to philosophy, in which he knew that the Romans have left us nothing that is valuable, except what is to be found in Seneca and Cicero. He is a Portuguese by birth, and was so desirous of seeing the world, that he divided his estate among his brothers, ran the same hazard as Americus Vesputius, and bore a share in three of his four voyages that are now published; only he did not return with him in his last, but obtained leave of him, almost by force, that he might be one of those twenty-four who were left at the farthest place at which they touched in their last voyage to New Castile. The leaving him thus did not a little gratify one that was more fond of travelling than of returning home to be buried in his own country; for he used often to say, that the way to heaven was the same from all places, and he that had no grave had the heavens still over him. Yet this disposition of mind had cost him dear, if God had not been very gracious to him; for after he, with five Castalians, had travelled over many countries, at last, by strange good fortune, he got to Ceylon, and from thence to Calicut, where he, very happily, found some Portuguese ships; and, beyond all men’s expectations, returned to his native country.’ When Peter had said this to me, I thanked him for his kindness in intending to give me the acquaintance of a man whose conversation he knew would be so acceptable; and upon that Raphael and I embraced each other. After those civilities were past which are usual with strangers upon their first meeting, we all went to my house, and entering into the garden, sat down on a green bank and entertained one another in discourse. He told us that when Vesputius had sailed away, he, and his companions that stayed behind in New Castile, by degrees insinuated themselves into the affections of the people of the country, meeting often with them and treating them gently; and at last they not only lived among them without danger, but conversed familiarly with them, and got so far into the heart of a prince, whose name and country I have forgot, that he both furnished them plentifully with all things necessary, and also with the conveniences of travelling, both boats when they went by water, and waggons when they trained over land: he sent with them a very faithful guide, who was to introduce and recommend them to such other princes as they had a mind to see: and after many days’ journey, they came to towns, and cities, and to commonwealths, that were both happily governed and well peopled. Under the equator, and as far on both sides of it as the sun moves, there lay vast deserts that were parched with the perpetual heat of the sun; the soil was withered, all things looked dismally, and all places were either quite uninhabited, or abounded with wild beasts and serpents, and some few men, that were neither less wild nor less cruel than the beasts themselves. But, as they went farther, a new scene opened, all things grew milder, the air less burning, the soil more verdant, and even the beasts were less wild: and, at last, there were nations, towns, and cities, that had not only mutual commerce among themselves and with their neighbours, but traded, both by sea and land, to very remote countries. There they found the conveniencies of seeing many countries on all hands, for no ship went any voyage into which he and his companions were not very welcome. The first vessels that they saw were flat-bottomed, their sails were made of reeds and wicker, woven close together, only some were of leather; but, afterwards, they found ships made with round keels and canvas sails, and in all respects like our ships, and the seamen understood both astronomy and navigation. He got wonderfully into their favour by showing them the use of the needle, of which till then they were utterly ignorant. They sailed before with great caution, and only in summer time; but now they count all seasons alike, trusting wholly to the loadstone, in which they are, perhaps, more secure than safe; so that there is reason to fear that this discovery, which was thought would prove so much to their advantage, may, by their imprudence, become an occasion of much mischief to them. But it were too long to dwell on all that he told us he had observed in every place, it would be too great a digression from our present purpose: whatever is necessary to be told concerning those wise and prudent institutions which he observed among civilised nations, may perhaps be related by us on a more proper occasion. We asked him many questions concerning all these things, to which he answered very willingly; we made no inquiries after monsters, than which nothing is more common; for everywhere one may hear of ravenous dogs and wolves, and cruel meneaters, but it is not so easy to find states that are well and wisely governed.
亨利八世，不可征服的英格兰国王，一位拥有成为伟大君主的所有美德的王子，与卡斯蒂利亚最平静的王子查尔斯有一些不小的分歧，派我作为他的大使前往佛兰德斯并在他们之间撰写事务。我是那位无与伦比的库斯伯特·通斯塔尔的同事和同伴，国王最近在普遍的掌声中任命他为劳斯莱斯大师。但我不会谈论谁；并不是因为我担心朋友的证词会受到怀疑，而是因为他的学识和美德太高深了，我无法公正地对待他们，而且众所周知，他们不需要我的赞扬，除非我愿意，根据谚语说：“用灯笼展示太阳。”王子指定接待我们的人按照协议在布鲁日与我们会面。他们都是有价值的人。布鲁日侯爵是他们的首领，也是他们中的首领。但被认为最聪明、最能代表其他人发言的是卡塞尔湖教务长乔治·特姆塞（George Temse）：艺术和自然共同使他能言善辩：他在法律方面非常有学识；由于他能力很强，经过长期的实践，他能够非常灵巧地解决这些问题。我们见过几次面，但没有达成协议，他们就去布鲁塞尔待了几天，想知道王子的喜好。而且，既然我们的生意承认这一点，我就去了安特卫普。 当我在那儿时，在许多拜访我的人中，有一个人比其他任何人都更能接受我，他是出生于安特卫普的彼得贾尔斯，他是一位非常有荣誉的人，在他的镇上享有很高的地位，尽管他的地位较低。比他应得的；因为我不知道是否还能找到比他更有学识、更有教养的年轻人。因为他既是一个非常值得尊敬的人，也是一个非常有见识的人，所以他对所有人都很有礼貌，对他的朋友特别友善，而且充满了坦诚和感情，也许在任何地方都没有超过一两个人。可以看出，他在各方面都是一位非常完美的朋友：他非常谦虚，没有任何诡计，但没有人比他更谨慎、单纯。他的谈话是那么愉快，那么天真快乐，他的陪伴在很大程度上减少了我想回到我的国家，回到我的妻子和孩子身边的渴望，四个月的缺席已经大大加速了这种渴望。有一天，当我从圣玛丽教堂做完弥撒回家时，这是安特卫普的主教堂，也是人们最常去的教堂，我偶然看到他正在与一位陌生人交谈，这位陌生人似乎已经过了他这个年纪的年纪。 ;他的脸晒黑了，留着长长的胡子，斗篷随意地披在身上，所以，从他的外表和习惯来看，我断定他是一名海员。彼得一看见我，就走过来向我打招呼，当我回敬他的客气时，他把我拉到一边，指着刚才与他谈话的那个人说：‘你看到那个人了吗？我只是想带他来见你。”我回答说：“你应该很欢迎他的。” “还有他自己，”他回答道，“如果你认识这个人的话，因为没有人能像他一样对未知的民族和国家进行如此丰富的描述，我知道你非常渴望这样做。 “那么，”我说，“我没有猜错，因为乍一看我以为他是一名海员。”“但是你大错特错了，”他说，“因为他并不是以海员的身份航行，而是以一名海员的身份航行。”旅行者，或者更确切地说是哲学家。这位拉斐尔的家族姓氏希斯洛迪，他对拉丁语并不陌生，但对希腊语却颇有造诣，他对希腊语的研究比对希腊语的研究更为深入，因为他对哲学投入了很多精力。他知道，除了塞内卡和西塞罗的著作之外，罗马人没有给我们留下任何有价值的东西。他出生于葡萄牙，非常渴望见识世界，因此他将自己的财产分给了他的兄弟们，冒着与阿梅里库斯·韦斯普提乌斯同样的危险，并在现已出版的他的四次航行中的三次中分享了他的经验。只是他最后一次没有和他一起返回，而是几乎是通过武力离开了他，这样他就可以成为最后一次前往新卡斯提尔时留在最远地方的二十四人之一。因此，他的离开让一个更喜欢旅行而不是回国安葬的人感到非常欣慰。因为他常常说，无论在哪里，通往天堂的路都是一样的，没有坟墓的人，天堂仍在他的上方。 然而，如果上帝不是对他非常仁慈的话，这种心态就让他付出了高昂的代价。因为他和五个卡斯塔利亚人走遍了许多国家，最后，凭借着奇怪的运气，他到达了锡兰，然后从那里到达了卡利卡特，在那里他非常高兴地发现了一些葡萄牙船只。当彼得对我说这番话时，我感谢他的好意，因为他打算让我结识一个他知道他的谈话会很容易被接受的人。就在那时，拉斐尔和我拥抱在一起。过了陌生人初次见面时常见的礼节后，我们都到了我家，走进花园，坐在绿色的岸边，互相交谈。他告诉我们，当维斯普蒂乌斯扬帆离开后，他和留在新卡斯提尔的同伴逐渐赢得了这个国家人民的喜爱，经常与他们会面并温柔地对待他们；最后，他们不仅没有危险地生活在他们中间，而且与他们交谈得很熟悉，深深地融入了一位王子的心，我已经忘记了他的名字和国家，他既为他们提供了充足的一切必需品，也为他们提供了充足的生活必需品。旅行十分便利，水路时用船，陆上训练时用马车：他派了一位非常忠实的向导随行，将他们介绍和推荐给其他有兴趣的王子：经过许多天的旅程，他们来到了城镇、城市和联邦，那里治理得很好，人民也很好。 赤道下方，以及太阳移动的赤道两侧，都是大片的沙漠，被太阳的永恒热量烤焦了。土地枯萎了，一切都显得惨淡，所有的地方要么完全无人居住，要么到处都是野兽和蛇，还有一些人，他们的野性和残忍程度不亚于野兽本身。但是，当他们走得更远时，新的景象出现了，一切都变得更加温和，空气不再那么燃烧，土壤更加青翠，甚至野兽也不再那么狂野：最后，出现了国家、城镇和城市，不仅相互之间以及与邻国之间有相互贸易，而且还通过海上和陆路与非常偏远的国家进行贸易。在那里，他们发现了游览许多国家的便利，因为没有一艘船去任何他和他的同伴不受欢迎的航程。他们看到的第一艘船是平底的，船帆是用芦苇和柳条紧密编织而成的，只有一些是皮革的；但后来，他们发现了圆龙骨和帆布帆制成的船只，在各方面都与我们的船只相似，而且水手们懂得天文学和航海术。他向他们展示了针的使用方法，奇妙地赢得了他们的青睐，而在此之前他们对此一无所知。他们以前航行时非常小心，而且只在夏季航行。但现在他们对所有季节都一视同仁，完全信任磁石，在磁石中他们也许比安全更安全。因此，我们有理由担心，这个原本被认为对他们有利的发现，可能会因为他们的轻率而给他们带来很多祸害。 但是，要详细阐述他告诉我们的他在各个地方所观察到的一切，时间太长，这会偏离我们目前的目的：关于他在文明国家中观察到的那些明智而审慎的制度，有必要告诉我们的一切，也许我们会在更合适的场合提及。我们问了他很多关于这些事情的问题，他非常乐意回答。我们没有询问怪物，没有比这更常见的了。因为人们在任何地方都可能听说过贪婪的狗和狼以及残忍的食人者，但要找到治理良好且明智的国家却并不容易。

As he told us of many things that were amiss in those newdiscovered countries, so he reckoned up not a few things, from which patterns might be taken for correcting the errors of these nations among whom we live; of which an account may be given, as I have already promised, at some other time; for, at present, I intend only to relate those particulars that he told us, of the manners and laws of the Utopians: but I will begin with the occasion that led us to speak of that commonwealth. After Raphael had discoursed with great judgment on the many errors that were both among us and these nations, had treated of the wise institutions both here and there, and had spoken as distinctly of the customs and government of every nation through which he had past, as if he had spent his whole life in it, Peter, being struck with admiration, said, ‘I wonder, Raphael, how it comes that you enter into no king’s service, for I am sure there are none to whom you would not be very acceptable; for your learning and knowledge, both of men and things, is such, that you would not only entertain them very pleasantly, but be of great use to them, by the examples you could set before them, and the advices you could give them; and by this means you would both serve your own interest, and be of great use to all your friends.’ ‘As for my friends,’ answered he, ‘I need not be much concerned, having already done for them all that was incumbent on me; for when I was not only in good health, but fresh and young, I distributed that among my kindred and friends which other people do not part with till they are old and sick: when they then unwillingly give that which they can enjoy no longer themselves. I think my friends ought to rest contented with this, and not to expect that for their sakes I should enslave myself to any king whatsoever.’ ‘Soft and fair!’ said Peter; ‘I do not mean that you should be a slave to any king, but only that you should assist them and be useful to them.’ ‘The change of the word,’ said he, ‘does not alter the matter.’ ‘But term it as you will,’ replied Peter, ‘I do not see any other way in which you can be so useful, both in private to your friends and to the public, and by which you can make your own condition happier.’ ‘Happier?’ answered Raphael, ‘is that to be compassed in a way so abhorrent to my genius? Now I live as I will, to which I believe, few courtiers can pretend; and there are so many that court the favour of great men, that there will be no great loss if they are not troubled either with me or with others of my temper.’ Upon this, said I, ‘I perceive, Raphael, that you neither desire wealth nor greatness; and, indeed, I value and admire such a man much more than I do any of the great men in the world. Yet I think you would do what would well become so generous and philosophical a soul as yours is, if you would apply your time and thoughts to public affairs, even though you may happen to find it a little uneasy to yourself; and this you can never do with so much advantage as by being taken into the council of some great prince and putting him on noble and worthy actions, which I know you would do if you were in such a post; for the springs both of good and evil flow from the prince over a whole nation, as from a lasting fountain. So much learning as you have, even without practice in affairs, or so great a practice as you have had, without any other learning, would render you a very fit counsellor to any king whatsoever.’ ‘You are doubly mistaken,’ said he, ‘Mr. More, both in your opinion of me and in the judgment you make of things: for as I have not that capacity that you fancy I have, so if I had it, the public would not be one jot the better when I had sacrificed my quiet to it. For most princes apply themselves more to affairs of war than to the useful arts of peace; and in these I neither have any knowledge, nor do I much desire it; they are generally more set on acquiring new kingdoms, right or wrong, than on governing well those they possess: and, among the ministers of princes, there are none that are not so wise as to need no assistance, or at least, that do not think themselves so wise that they imagine they need none; and if they court any, it is only those for whom the prince has much personal favour, whom by their fawning and flatteries they endeavour to fix to their own interests; and, indeed, nature has so made us, that we all love to be flattered and to please ourselves with our own notions: the old crow loves his young, and the ape her cubs. Now if in such a court, made up of persons who envy all others and only admire themselves, a person should but propose anything that he had either read in history or observed in his travels, the rest would think that the reputation of their wisdom would sink, and that their interests would be much depressed if they could not run it down: and, if all other things failed, then they would fly to this, that such or such things pleased our ancestors, and it were well for us if we could but match them. They would set up their rest on such an answer, as a sufficient confutation of all that could be said, as if it were a great misfortune that any should be found wiser than his ancestors. But though they willingly let go all the good things that were among those of former ages, yet, if better things are proposed, they cover themselves obstinately with this excuse of reverence to past times. I have met with these proud, morose, and absurd judgments of things in many places, particularly once in England.’ ‘Were you ever there?’ said I. ‘Yes, I was,’ answered he, ‘and stayed some months there, not long after the rebellion in the West was suppressed, with a great slaughter of the poor people that were engaged in it.
当他告诉我们那些新发现的国家的许多问题时，他也总结出不少事情，可以从中采取模式来纠正我们生活在其中的这些国家的错误；正如我已经承诺的那样，可能会在其他时间对此进行说明；因为，目前，我只想讲述他告诉我们的乌托邦人的习俗和法律的细节：但我将从引导我们谈论该共和国的场合开始。拉斐尔以极大的判断力论述了我们和这些国家之间存在的许多错误，讨论了各地的明智机构，并清楚地谈到了他所经历的每个国家的习俗和政府，彼得仿佛一生都在其中度过，他钦佩不已，说道：“我想知道，拉斐尔，你为什么不为国王服务，因为我确信没有人不愿意为你服务。”非常可以接受；因为你的学识和知识，无论是人还是事，都如此，你不仅会非常愉快地招待他们，而且通过你可以在他们面前树立的榜样和你可以给他们的建议，对他们有很大的用处； ” “至于我的朋友们，”他回答说，“我不必太担心，因为我已经为他们做了所有该做的事。包在我身上;因为当我不仅身体健康，而且还年轻时，我把这些东西分给了我的亲人和朋友，其他人直到年老和生病才舍弃它们：当他们不愿意给予他们自己无法再享受的东西时。 我想我的朋友们应该对此感到满意，不要指望为了他们，我应该奴役任何国王。“温柔而公平！”彼得说。 “我并不是说你应该成为任何国王的奴隶，而是说你应该协助他们，对他们有用。”“这个词的改变，”他说，“不会改变事情。”“但是随你怎么称呼，”彼得回答说，“我看不出还有什么其他方式可以让你如此有用，无论是在私下里对你的朋友还是在公众面前，而且你可以让自己的处境更幸福。”更快乐吗？”拉斐尔回答道，“对于我的天才来说，这是一种如此令人憎恶的方式吗？现在我按照自己的意愿生活，我相信很少有朝臣能够假装做到这一点；有这么多人讨好伟人的青睐，如果他们不为我或与我脾气相同的人烦恼，那就不会有什么大损失。”对此，我说，“我认为，拉斐尔，你不求富贵，不求伟大；事实上，我比世界上任何伟人更珍视和钦佩这样的人。然而，我认为，如果你愿意将你的时间和思想投入到公共事务中，即使你可能碰巧发现这对你自己来说有点不安，你也会做像你这样慷慨和哲学的灵魂；做到这一点，你永远不会比被纳入某个伟大王子的议会并让他采取高尚而有价值的行动更有利，我知道如果你担任这样的职位，你会这样做；因为善与恶的源泉都从君王那里流淌到整个国家，就像从永恒的泉水里流出来一样。即使你没有在事务上实践过，但你拥有如此多的学识，或者你拥有如此多的实践，但没有任何其他学识，将使你成为任何国王的非常合适的顾问。” “你就大错特错了，”他说，“先生。更重要的是，无论是在你对我的看法中，还是在你对事物的判断中：因为我没有你想象的那种能力，所以如果我有这种能力，当我牺牲了我的能力时，公众也不会好一点。安静地对待它。因为大多数君主更多地致力于战争事务，而不是有用的和平艺术。对于这些，我一无所知，也不太渴望了解。他们通常更热衷于获得新的王国，无论是对是错，而不是治理好他们所拥有的王国：而且，在诸侯的大臣中，没有一个人不明智到不需要援助，或者至少不需要援助。不要认为自己聪明到不需要任何东西；如果他们向任何人求爱，那也只是那些受到君主个人恩惠的人，他们通过阿谀奉承和奉承，竭力使他们符合自己的利益。事实上，大自然造就了我们，我们都喜欢受人奉承，喜欢用自己的想法取悦自己：老乌鸦爱幼崽，猿猴爱幼崽。现在，如果在这样一个由羡慕所有其他人而只欣赏自己的人组成的宫廷中，一个人只要提出他在历史上读到的或在旅行中观察到的任何东西，其他人就会认为他们的智慧声誉会受到影响。沉没，如果他们不能把它搞下去，他们的利益就会大打折扣：而且，如果所有其他事情都失败了，那么他们就会飞向这个，这样或那样的事情让我们的祖先高兴，如果我们这样做，对我们来说是有好处的只能匹配他们。他们将以这样的答案作为休息，作为对所有可以说的充分反驳，仿佛发现任何人比他的祖先更聪明都是一个巨大的不幸。 尽管他们愿意放弃前世的一切美好事物，但如果提出更好的事物，他们就固执地以崇敬过去的借口来掩盖自己。我在很多地方都遇到过这些对事物的骄傲、忧郁和荒谬的判断，尤其是在英国。”“你去过那里吗？”我说。“是的，我去过，”他回答说，“并在那里呆了几个月。西方的叛乱被镇压后不久，参与叛乱的穷人遭到了大规模屠杀。

‘I was then much obliged to that reverend prelate, John Morton, Archbishop of Canterbury, Cardinal, and Chancellor of England; a man,’ said he, ‘Peter (for Mr. More knows well what he was), that was not less venerable for his wisdom and virtues than for the high character he bore: he was of a middle stature, not broken with age; his looks begot reverence rather than fear; his conversation was easy, but serious and grave; he sometimes took pleasure to try the force of those that came as suitors to him upon business by speaking sharply, though decently, to them, and by that he discovered their spirit and presence of mind; with which he was much delighted when it did not grow up to impudence, as bearing a great resemblance to his own temper, and he looked on such persons as the fittest men for affairs. He spoke both gracefully and weightily; he was eminently skilled in the law, had a vast understanding, and a prodigious memory; and those excellent talents with which nature had furnished him were improved by study and experience. When I was in England the King depended much on his counsels, and the Government seemed to be chiefly supported by him; for from his youth he had been all along practised in affairs; and, having passed through many traverses of fortune, he had, with great cost, acquired a vast stock of wisdom, which is not soon lost when it is purchased so dear. One day, when I was dining with him, there happened to be at table one of the English lawyers, who took occasion to run out in a high commendation of the severe execution of justice upon thieves, ‘who,’ as he said, ‘were then hanged so fast that there were sometimes twenty on one gibbet!’ and, upon that, he said, ‘he could not wonder enough how it came to pass that, since so few escaped, there were yet so many thieves left, who were still robbing in all places.’ Upon this, I (who took the boldness to speak freely before the Cardinal) said, ‘There was no reason to wonder at the matter, since this way of punishing thieves was neither just in itself nor good for the public; for, as the severity was too great, so the remedy was not effectual; simple theft not being so great a crime that it ought to cost a man his life; no punishment, how severe soever, being able to restrain those from robbing who can find out no other way of livelihood. In this,’ said I, ‘not only you in England, but a great part of the world, imitate some ill masters, that are readier to chastise their scholars than to teach them. There are dreadful punishments enacted against thieves, but it were much better to make such good provisions by which every man might be put in a method how to live, and so be preserved from the fatal necessity of stealing and of dying for it.’ ‘There has been care enough taken for that,’ said he; ‘there are many handicrafts, and there is husbandry, by which they may make a shift to live, unless they have a greater mind to follow ill courses.’ ‘That will not serve your turn,’ said I, ‘for many lose their limbs in civil or foreign wars, as lately in the Cornish rebellion, and some time ago in your wars with France, who, being thus mutilated in the service of their king and country, can no more follow their old trades, and are too old to learn new ones; but since wars are only accidental things, and have intervals, let us consider those things that fall out every day. There is a great number of noblemen among you that are themselves as idle as drones, that subsist on other men’s labour, on the labour of their tenants, whom, to raise their revenues, they pare to the quick. This, indeed, is the only instance of their frugality, for in all other things they are prodigal, even to the beggaring of themselves; but, besides this, they carry about with them a great number of idle fellows, who never learned any art by which they may gain their living; and these, as soon as either their lord dies, or they themselves fall sick, are turned out of doors; for your lords are readier to feed idle people than to take care of the sick; and often the heir is not able to keep together so great a family as his predecessor did. Now, when the stomachs of those that are thus turned out of doors grow keen, they rob no less keenly; and what else can they do? For when, by wandering about, they have worn out both their health and their clothes, and are tattered, and look ghastly, men of quality will not entertain them, and poor men dare not do it, knowing that one who has been bred up in idleness and pleasure, and who was used to walk about with his sword and buckler, despising all the neighbourhood with an insolent scorn as far below him, is not fit for the spade and mattock; nor will he serve a poor man for so small a hire and in so low a diet as he can afford to give him.’ To this he answered, ‘This sort of men ought to be particularly cherished, for in them consists the force of the armies for which we have occasion; since their birth inspires them with a nobler sense of honour than is to be found among tradesmen or ploughmen.’ ‘You may as well say,’ replied I, ‘that you must cherish thieves on the account of wars, for you will never want the one as long as you have the other; and as robbers prove sometimes gallant soldiers, so soldiers often prove brave robbers, so near an alliance there is between those two sorts of life. But this bad custom, so common among you, of keeping many servants, is not peculiar to this nation. In France there is yet a more pestiferous sort of people, for the whole country is full of soldiers, still kept up in time of peace (if such a state of a nation can be called a peace); and these are kept in pay upon the same account that you plead for those idle retainers about noblemen: this being a maxim of those pretended statesmen, that it is necessary for the public safety to have a good body of veteran soldiers ever in readiness. They think raw men are not to be depended on, and they sometimes seek occasions for making war, that they may train up their soldiers in the art of cutting throats, or, as Sallust observed, ‘for keeping their hands in use, that they may not grow dull by too long an intermission.’ But France has learned to its cost how dangerous it is to feed such beasts. The fate of the Romans, Carthaginians, and Syrians, and many other nations and cities, which were both overturned and quite ruined by those standing armies, should make others wiser; and the folly of this maxim of the French appears plainly even from this, that their trained soldiers often find your raw men prove too hard for them, of which I will not say much, lest you may think I flatter the English. Every day’s experience shows that the mechanics in the towns or the clowns in the country are not afraid of fighting with those idle gentlemen, if they are not disabled by some misfortune in their body or dispirited by extreme want; so that you need not fear that those well-shaped and strong men (for it is only such that noblemen love to keep about them till they spoil them), who now grow feeble with ease and are softened with their effeminate manner of life, would be less fit for action if they were well bred and well employed. And it seems very unreasonable that, for the prospect of a war, which you need never have but when you please, you should maintain so many idle men, as will always disturb you in time of peace, which is ever to be more considered than war. But I do not think that this necessity of stealing arises only from hence; there is another cause of it, more peculiar to England.’ ‘What is that?’ said the Cardinal: ‘The increase of pasture,’ said I, ‘by which your sheep, which are naturally mild, and easily kept in order, may be said now to devour men and unpeople, not only villages, but towns; for wherever it is found that the sheep of any soil yield a softer and richer wool than ordinary, there the nobility and gentry, and even those holy men, the dobots! not contented with the old rents which their farms yielded, nor thinking it enough that they, living at their ease, do no good to the public, resolve to do it hurt instead of good. They stop the course of agriculture, destroying houses and towns, reserving only the churches, and enclose grounds that they may lodge their sheep in them. As if forests and parks had swallowed up too little of the land, those worthy countrymen turn the best inhabited places into solitudes; for when an insatiable wretch, who is a plague to his country, resolves to enclose many thousand acres of ground, the owners, as well as tenants, are turned out of their possessions by trick or by main force, or, being wearied out by ill usage, they are forced to sell them; by which means those miserable people, both men and women, married and unmarried, old and young, with their poor but numerous families (since country business requires many hands), are all forced to change their seats, not knowing whither to go; and they must sell, almost for nothing, their household stuff, which could not bring them much money, even though they might stay for a buyer. When that little money is at an end (for it will be soon spent), what is left for them to do but either to steal, and so to be hanged (God knows how justly!), or to go about and beg? and if they do this they are put in prison as idle vagabonds, while they would willingly work but can find none that will hire them; for there is no more occasion for country labour, to which they have been bred, when there is no arable ground left. One shepherd can look after a flock, which will stock an extent of ground that would require many hands if it were to be ploughed and reaped. This, likewise, in many places raises the price of corn. The price of wool is also so risen that the poor people, who were wont to make cloth, are no more able to buy it; and this, likewise, makes many of them idle: for since the increase of pasture God has punished the avarice of the owners by a rot among the sheep, which has destroyed vast numbers of them—to us it might have seemed more just had it fell on the owners themselves. But, suppose the sheep should increase ever so much, their price is not likely to fall; since, though they cannot be called a monopoly, because they are not engrossed by one person, yet they are in so few hands, and these are so rich, that, as they are not pressed to sell them sooner than they have a mind to it, so they never do it till they have raised the price as high as possible. And on the same account it is that the other kinds of cattle are so dear, because many villages being pulled down, and all country labour being much neglected, there are none who make it their business to breed them. The rich do not breed cattle as they do sheep, but buy them lean and at low prices; and, after they have fattened them on their grounds, sell them again at high rates. And I do not think that all the inconveniences this will produce are yet observed; for, as they sell the cattle dear, so, if they are consumed faster than the breeding countries from which they are brought can afford them, then the stock must decrease, and this must needs end in great scarcity; and by these means, this your island, which seemed as to this particular the happiest in the world, will suffer much by the cursed avarice of a few persons: besides this, the rising of corn makes all people lessen their families as much as they can; and what can those who are dismissed by them do but either beg or rob? And to this last a man of a great mind is much sooner drawn than to the former. Luxury likewise breaks in apace upon you to set forward your poverty and misery; there is an excessive vanity in apparel, and great cost in diet, and that not only in noblemen’s families, but even among tradesmen, among the farmers themselves, and among all ranks of persons. You have also many infamous houses, and, besides those that are known, the taverns and alehouses are no better; add to these dice, cards, tables, football, tennis, and quoits, in which money runs fast away; and those that are initiated into them must, in the conclusion, betake themselves to robbing for a supply. Banish these plagues, and give orders that those who have dispeopled so much soil may either rebuild the villages they have pulled down or let out their grounds to such as will do it; restrain those engrossings of the rich, that are as bad almost as monopolies; leave fewer occasions to idleness; let agriculture be set up again, and the manufacture of the wool be regulated, that so there may be work found for those companies of idle people whom want forces to be thieves, or who now, being idle vagabonds or useless servants, will certainly grow thieves at last. If you do not find a remedy to these evils it is a vain thing to boast of your severity in punishing theft, which, though it may have the appearance of justice, yet in itself is neither just nor convenient; for if you suffer your people to be ill-educated, and their manners to be corrupted from their infancy, and then punish them for those crimes to which their first education disposed them, what else is to be concluded from this but that you first make thieves and then punish them?’
“当时我非常感谢那位令人尊敬的主教约翰·莫顿，坎特伯雷大主教、红衣主教和英格兰财政大臣； “彼得，”他说，“彼得（莫尔先生很清楚他是什么人），他的智慧和美德不亚于他的高尚品格，同样值得尊敬：他中等身材，没有因年龄而衰弱。” ;他的容貌让人尊敬而不是恐惧；他的谈话很轻松，但是很严肃。有时，他乐于尝试那些因公事前来求婚的人的力量，对他们说话严厉但得体，通过这种方式，他发现了他们的精神和冷静。当他的脾气没有变得鲁莽时，他感到非常高兴，因为他的脾气与他自己的性格非常相似，而且他认为这样的人是最适合处理事务的人。他说话既优雅又沉重。他精通法律，理解力广博，记忆力惊人。大自然赋予他的卓越才能通过学习和经验得到了提高。当我在英国时，国王非常依赖他的建议，而政府似乎主要是由他支持的。因为从他年轻时起，他就一直是做事老练的人。他经历了许多命运的坎坷，付出了巨大的代价，获得了大量的智慧，而这些智慧在以如此昂贵的价格购买时不会很快消失。有一天，我和他一起吃饭时，餐桌上碰巧有一位英国律师，他趁机跑出去，高度赞扬对小偷的严厉执法，“他”，正如他所说，“然后被绞得如此之快，有时一根绞刑架上有二十个人！”对此，他说，“他实在是太奇怪了，既然逃走的人这么少，居然还有那么多小偷，他们仍然在各地抢劫。”对此，我（谁）大胆地在红衣主教面前畅所欲言）说：“没有理由对此事感到惊讶，因为这种惩罚窃贼的方式本身既不公正，也不利于公众；因为，由于病情太严重，所以补救措施并不有效。简单的盗窃行为并不算严重到要送命的程度；没有任何惩罚，无论多么严厉，都能够限制那些没有其他谋生之道的人进行抢劫。在这一点上，”我说，“不仅你们英国人，而且世界上很多地方，都在效仿一些邪恶的大师，他们更愿意惩罚他们的学者，而不是教导他们。对小偷的惩罚是可怕的，但最好制定出如此好的规定，使每个人都能掌握一种生活方式，从而避免因盗窃而死亡。”他说，对此我们已经采取了足够的措施。 “有很多手工业，还有畜牧业，他们可以靠这些来谋生，除非他们有更大的决心去走邪恶的道路。”“那轮不到你了，”我说，“因为许多人失去了他们的生活。”内战或对外战争中的肢体，就像最近在康沃尔叛乱中，以及不久前在你们与法国的战争中，他们在为国王和国家服务时被肢解，不能再从事他们的旧行当，而且已经太老了学习新知识；但既然战争只是偶然的事情，并且有间歇性，那么让我们考虑一下那些每天都会发生的事情。 你们中间有很多贵族，他们自己像无人机一样游手好闲，靠别人的劳动、靠佃农的劳动为生，为了增加收入，他们剥削了佃农。这确实是他们节俭的唯一例子，因为在所有其他事情上他们都是挥霍的，甚至到了自取其辱的程度。但除此之外，他们还带着一大群游手好闲的人，他们从未学过任何谋生的技艺。一旦他们的主人去世，或者他们自己生病了，这些人就会被赶出家门。因为你们的主人们更愿意养活闲人，而不是照顾病人。通常，继承人无法像他的前任那样维持如此大的家庭。现在，当那些被赶出家门的人的胃变得敏锐时，他们也同样热衷于抢劫。他们还能做什么？因游走，身心俱损，衣衫褴褛，面貌丑陋，贵人不招待，贫人不敢招待，因为知道有教养的人。闲散享乐，惯于拿着剑和圆盾到处走动，以一种远低于他的无礼的蔑视态度蔑视周围的一切，不适合使用铁锹和鹤嘴锄；他也不会以他所能支付的那么低的工资和如此低的饮食来服务一个穷人。”对此，他回答说：“这种人应该受到特别珍惜，因为他们身上蕴含着力量。我们有机会的军队；因为他们的出生激发了他们比商人或农夫更高尚的荣誉感。” “你不妨说，”我回答说，“你必须因为战争而珍惜盗贼，因为只要你拥有另一个，你就永远不会想要这个；正如强盗有时会被证明是英勇的士兵一样，士兵也常常会被证明是勇敢的强盗，因此这两种生活之间几乎是一种联盟。但是，这种在你们中间很常见的坏习惯，即保留许多仆人，并不是这个国家所独有的。在法国，还有一种更加瘟疫的人，因为整个国家到处都是士兵，仍然保持着和平时期的状态（如果这样的国家状态可以称为和平的话）；这些人的报酬与你为那些闲散的贵族家臣求情的理由是一样的：这是那些假装政治家的格言，为了公共安全，有必要拥有一支随时待命的良好的老兵队伍。他们认为不值得依赖原始人，他们有时会寻找发动战争的机会，以便训练士兵割喉的艺术，或者正如萨卢斯特所观察到的，“为了保持双手的使用，他们可以训练士兵的割喉艺术”。中场休息时间太长可能不会变得迟钝。”但法国已经付出了代价，了解到喂养这些野兽是多么危险。罗马人、迦太基人、叙利亚人以及许多其他国家和城市的命运，都被这些常备军推翻和彻底摧毁，应该让其他人变得更加明智。法国人的这句格言的愚蠢之处甚至从这里就可以清楚地看出，他们训练有素的士兵经常发现你的原始人对他们来说太难了，对此我不会说太多，以免你认为我在奉承英国人。 每天的经验表明，城镇里的机械师或乡村里的小丑，只要不是因为身体上的某种不幸而残疾，或者因为极度匮乏而意志消沉，就不会害怕与那些游手好闲的绅士们打架。因此，你不必担心那些身材匀称、体格健壮的男人（因为只有这样，贵族才喜欢把他们留在身边，直到他们把他们宠坏为止），他们现在很容易变得虚弱，并因其女性化的生活方式而变得柔和，会如果他们有良好的教养和良好的就业，他们就不太适合行动。而且，为了战争的前景，你永远不需要战争，但当你愿意的时候，你应该保留这么多闲人，这似乎是非常不合理的，因为在和平时期总是会打扰你，这永远比你更值得考虑。战争。但我不认为这种偷窃的必要性只是由此产生的； “这是什么原因？”红衣主教说：“牧场的增加，”我说，“你的羊本来性情温和，很容易保持秩序，因此，现在可以说它吞噬了人类和非人类，不仅是村庄，还有城镇；因为只要发现任何土壤中的羊能产出比普通羊更柔软、更丰富的羊毛，那里就有贵族和士绅，甚至还有那些圣人，即机械人！不满足于他们的农场所产生的旧租金，也不认为他们安逸的生活对公众没有任何好处，决心做坏事而不是好事。他们停止了农业生产，摧毁了房屋和城镇，只保留了教堂，并围出了可以安置羊群的土地。 就好像森林和公园吞噬的土地太少一样，那些可敬的同胞把最适合居住的地方变成了荒凉的地方。因为，当一个贪得无厌的坏蛋，给他的国家带来瘟疫，决定圈占数千英亩的土地时，业主和佃户都会被诡计或主力赶出他们的财产，或者被厌倦了。使用不当，他们被迫出售；如此一来，那些苦苦的人，无论男女，已婚未婚，老幼，家境贫寒，人多（乡村生意需要很多人手），都被迫换座位，不知去向；他们必须几乎无偿地出售他们的家庭用品，这不能给他们带来很多钱，即使他们可能留下来寻找买家。当那点钱用完时（因为很快就会花掉），他们除了偷窃然后被绞死（天知道多么公正！），或者四处乞讨之外，还能做什么呢？如果他们这样做，他们就会像游手好闲的流浪汉一样被关进监狱，虽然他们愿意工作，但却找不到愿意雇用他们的人。因为当没有耕地时，他们就不再需要乡村劳动了，而乡村劳动是他们养育出来的。一个牧羊人可以照顾一群羊群，这些羊群会拥有一定面积的土地，如果要犁地和收割，就需要很多人手。同样，许多地方的玉米价格也因此上涨。 羊毛的价格也水涨船高，习惯做布的穷人再也买不起了；同样，这也使他们中的许多人无所事事：因为自从牧场增加之后，上帝就通过羊群的腐烂来惩罚业主的贪婪，这导致了大批羊群的死亡——对我们来说，如果这样的话，这似乎更公平落在业主自己身上。但是，假设羊的数量增加这么多，它们的价格就不可能下降；因为，虽然它们不能被称为垄断，因为它们不被一个人全神贯注，但它们掌握在少数人手中，而且这些人又如此富有，以至于他们不会被迫在他们有意愿之前出售它们。因此，在将价格提高到尽可能高的水平之前，他们绝不会这样做。出于同样的原因，其他种类的牛也如此昂贵，因为许多村庄被拆毁，所有乡村劳动力都被忽视，没有人以饲养它们为己任。富人不像养羊那样养牛，而是以低价购买瘦肉。他们在自己的土地上养肥之后，再以高价出售。我认为这将产生的所有不便尚未被观察到；因为，由于他们以昂贵的价格出售牛，因此，如果牛的消费速度超过了牛的饲养国的承受能力，那么牛的存栏量必然会减少，而这必然会导致严重的稀缺；通过这些方式，你的这个岛屿，在这个特定的情况下，似乎是世界上最幸福的岛屿，将因少数人的可恶的贪婪而遭受很大的痛苦：除此之外，谷物的上涨使所有人都减少了他们的家庭，就像他们的家庭一样。能;那些被他们解雇的人除了乞讨或抢劫还能做什么呢？ 一个有伟大思想的人比前者更容易被后者所吸引。奢侈同样会迅速降临到你身上，加剧你的贫穷和痛苦。不仅在贵族家庭中，而且在商人中、在农民中以及在各个阶层的人中，都存在着过度的衣着虚荣和饮食的巨大花费。这里还有许多臭名昭著的房子，除了那些众所周知的房子外，小酒馆和啤酒屋也好不到哪儿去。再加上这些骰子、纸牌、桌子、足球、网球和圈子，其中的钱会很快流失；那些开始这样做的人最终必须致力于通过抢劫来获取供给。消灭这些瘟疫，并下令那些驱散如此多土地的人要么重建他们拆毁的村庄，要么将土地让给愿意这样做的人；限制富人的那些几乎与垄断一样糟糕的投资；减少闲置的时间；让农业重新建立起来，羊毛的生产得到规范，这样，那些想要军队成为小偷的闲人，或者现在是游手好闲的流浪汉或无用的仆人的人，就可以找到工作，他们肯定会成长终于有贼了如果你找不到解决这些弊病的办法，那么夸耀你对盗窃行为的严厉惩罚是徒劳的，尽管它可能看起来很正义，但其本身既不公正也不方便；因为如果你让你的人民受到不良教育，让他们的礼仪从婴儿期起就败坏，然后惩罚他们犯下的那些他们最初所受的教育所犯下的罪行，那么除了你首先让他们犯下这些罪行之外，还能得出什么结论呢？窃贼然后惩罚他们？’

‘While I was talking thus, the Counsellor, who was present, had prepared an answer, and had resolved to resume all I had said, according to the formality of a debate, in which things are generally repeated more faithfully than they are answered, as if the chief trial to be made were of men’s memories. ‘You have talked prettily, for a stranger,’ said he, ‘having heard of many things among us which you have not been able to consider well; but I will make the whole matter plain to you, and will first repeat in order all that you have said; then I will show how much your ignorance of our affairs has misled you; and will, in the last place, answer all your arguments. And, that I may begin where I promised, there were four things—‘ ‘Hold your peace!’ said the Cardinal; ‘this will take up too much time; therefore we will, at present, ease you of the trouble of answering, and reserve it to our next meeting, which shall be to-morrow, if Raphael’s affairs and yours can admit of it. But, Raphael,’ said he to me, ‘I would gladly know upon what reason it is that you think theft ought not to be punished by death: would you give way to it? or do you propose any other punishment that will be more useful to the public? for, since death does not restrain theft, if men thought their lives would be safe, what fear or force could restrain ill men? On the contrary, they would look on the mitigation of the punishment as an invitation to commit more crimes.’ I answered, ‘It seems to me a very unjust thing to take away a man’s life for a little money, for nothing in the world can be of equal value with a man’s life: and if it be said, ‘that it is not for the money that one suffers, but for his breaking the law,’ I must say, extreme justice is an extreme injury: for we ought not to approve of those terrible laws that make the smallest offences capital, nor of that opinion of the Stoics that makes all crimes equal; as if there were no difference to be made between the killing a man and the taking his purse, between which, if we examine things impartially, there is no likeness nor proportion. God has commanded us not to kill, and shall we kill so easily for a little money? But if one shall say, that by that law we are only forbid to kill any except when the laws of the land allow of it, upon the same grounds, laws may be made, in some cases, to allow of adultery and perjury: for God having taken from us the right of disposing either of our own or of other people’s lives, if it is pretended that the mutual consent of men in making laws can authorise man-slaughter in cases in which God has given us no example, that it frees people from the obligation of the divine law, and so makes murder a lawful action, what is this, but to give a preference to human laws before the divine? and, if this is once admitted, by the same rule men may, in all other things, put what restrictions they please upon the laws of God. If, by the Mosaical law, though it was rough and severe, as being a yoke laid on an obstinate and servile nation, men were only fined, and not put to death for theft, we cannot imagine, that in this new law of mercy, in which God treats us with the tenderness of a father, He has given us a greater licence to cruelty than He did to the Jews. Upon these reasons it is, that I think putting thieves to death is not lawful; and it is plain and obvious that it is absurd and of ill consequence to the commonwealth that a thief and a murderer should be equally punished; for if a robber sees that his danger is the same if he is convicted of theft as if he were guilty of murder, this will naturally incite him to kill the person whom otherwise he would only have robbed; since, if the punishment is the same, there is more security, and less danger of discovery, when he that can best make it is put out of the way; so that terrifying thieves too much provokes them to cruelty.
“当我这样说话时，在场的辅导员已经准备好了答案，并决定按照辩论的形式恢复我所说的一切，在辩论中，事情的重复通常比答案更忠实，仿佛要进行的主要审判是对人的记忆的审判。 “对于一个陌生人来说，你说得非常漂亮，”他说，“你听说过我们之间的许多事情，但你却没有仔细考虑过；但我会把整个事情向你解释清楚，并首先按顺序重复你所说的一切；然后我会告诉你，你对我们事务的无知给你带来了多大的误导；最后，我会回答你所有的论点。而且，为了让我从我所承诺的地方开始，有四件事——““保持安静！”红衣主教说； ‘这会占用太多时间；因此，如果拉斐尔的事务和您的事务能够接受的话，我们现在将免除您回答的麻烦，并将其保留到我们明天的下次会议上。但是，拉斐尔，”他对我说，“我很想知道你认为盗窃不应该被判处死刑的原因是什么：你愿意让步吗？或者您是否提出任何其他对公众更有用的惩罚？因为，既然死亡并不能抑制盗窃，如果人们认为自己的生命是安全的，那么什么恐惧或力量可以抑制生病的人呢？相反，他们会把减轻惩罚视为犯下更多罪行的诱因。”我回答说：“在我看来，为了一点钱而夺走一个人的生命是一件非常不公平的事情，因为世界上没有任何东西可以与一个人的生命同等价值：如果有人说，“那不是”我必须说，极端的正义是一种极端的伤害：因为我们不应该赞同那些将最小的罪行定为死刑的可怕法律，也不应该赞同斯多葛学派的观点这使得所有犯罪行为一律平等；就好像杀人和夺走他的钱包之间没有区别一样，如果我们公正地审视事物，两者之间没有相似之处或比例。神吩咐我们不可以杀人，我们为了一点钱就可以轻易杀人吗？但是，如果有人说，根据该法律，我们只禁止杀害任何人，除非当地法律允许，那么基于同样的理由，在某些情况下，可以制定法律允许通奸和伪证：因为上帝已经剥夺了我们处置我们自己或他人生命的权利，如果假装人们在制定法律时相互同意就可以在上帝没有给我们举例的情况下授权屠杀人类，那么，将人们从神圣法律的义务中解放出来，从而使谋杀成为合法行为，这不是优先考虑人类法律而不是神圣法律吗？而且，如果这一点一旦被承认，按照同样的规则，人们就可以在所有其他事情上对上帝的律法施加他们所喜欢的限制。 如果按照摩西律法，虽然它是粗暴和严厉的，就像强加在一个顽固和奴性民族身上的枷锁一样，但如果人们只因盗窃而被处以罚款，而不被处以死刑，我们就无法想象，在这个新的怜悯律法中，上帝以父亲般的温柔对待我们，但他却给了我们比对犹太人更大的残忍许可。基于这些原因，我认为处死小偷是不合法的；显而易见，小偷和杀人犯受到同样的惩罚是荒谬的，而且对国家会产生不良后果。因为如果一个强盗看到他被判犯有盗窃罪和犯有谋杀罪，他的危险是一样的，这自然会促使他杀死那个他本来只会抢劫的人；因为，如果惩罚相同，当最能做到这一点的人被排除在外时，就会更加安全，被发现的危险也会减少。因此，可怕的盗贼太容易激怒他们的残忍行为。

‘But as to the question, ‘What more convenient way of punishment can be found?’ I think it much easier to find out that than to invent anything that is worse; why should we doubt but the way that was so long in use among the old Romans, who understood so well the arts of government, was very proper for their punishment? They condemned such as they found guilty of great crimes to work their whole lives in quarries, or to dig in mines with chains about them. But the method that I liked best was that which I observed in my travels in Persia, among the Polylerits, who are a considerable and well-governed people: they pay a yearly tribute to the King of Persia, but in all other respects they are a free nation, and governed by their own laws: they lie far from the sea, and are environed with hills; and, being contented with the productions of their own country, which is very fruitful, they have little commerce with any other nation; and as they, according to the genius of their country, have no inclination to enlarge their borders, so their mountains and the pension they pay to the Persian, secure them from all invasions. Thus they have no wars among them; they live rather conveniently than with splendour, and may be rather called a happy nation than either eminent or famous; for I do not think that they are known, so much as by name, to any but their next neighbours. Those that are found guilty of theft among them are bound to make restitution to the owner, and not, as it is in other places, to the prince, for they reckon that the prince has no more right to the stolen goods than the thief; but if that which was stolen is no more in being, then the goods of the thieves are estimated, and restitution being made out of them, the remainder is given to their wives and children; and they themselves are condemned to serve in the public works, but are neither imprisoned nor chained, unless there happens to be some extraordinary circumstance in their crimes. They go about loose and free, working for the public: if they are idle or backward to work they are whipped, but if they work hard they are well used and treated without any mark of reproach; only the lists of them are called always at night, and then they are shut up. They suffer no other uneasiness but this of constant labour; for, as they work for the public, so they are well entertained out of the public stock, which is done differently in different places: in some places whatever is bestowed on them is raised by a charitable contribution; and, though this way may seem uncertain, yet so merciful are the inclinations of that people, that they are plentifully supplied by it; but in other places public revenues are set aside for them, or there is a constant tax or poll-money raised for their maintenance. In some places they are set to no public work, but every private man that has occasion to hire workmen goes to the market-places and hires them of the public, a little lower than he would do a freeman. If they go lazily about their task he may quicken them with the whip. By this means there is always some piece of work or other to be done by them; and, besides their livelihood, they earn somewhat still to the public. They all wear a peculiar habit, of one certain colour, and their hair is cropped a little above their ears, and a piece of one of their ears is cut off. Their friends are allowed to give them either meat, drink, or clothes, so they are of their proper colour; but it is death, both to the giver and taker, if they give them money; nor is it less penal for any freeman to take money from them upon any account whatsoever: and it is also death for any of these slaves (so they are called) to handle arms. Those of every division of the country are distinguished by a peculiar mark, which it is capital for them to lay aside, to go out of their bounds, or to talk with a slave of another jurisdiction, and the very attempt of an escape is no less penal than an escape itself. It is death for any other slave to be accessory to it; and if a freeman engages in it he is condemned to slavery. Those that discover it are rewarded—if freemen, in money; and if slaves, with liberty, together with a pardon for being accessory to it; that so they might find their account rather in repenting of their engaging in such a design than in persisting in it.
“但至于‘能找到什么更方便的惩罚方式？’这个问题，我认为找出这一点比发明更糟糕的东西要容易得多。我们为什么要怀疑古罗马人长期使用的方式，他们如此了解政府的艺术，对于他们的惩罚是否非常合适呢？他们谴责那些被判犯有重大罪行的人终其一生在采石场工作，或者带着铁链去挖掘矿井。但我最喜欢的方法是我在波斯旅行时在波利勒里特人中观察到的方法，他们是一个相当大且治理良好的民族：他们每年向波斯国王进贡，但在所有其他方面，他们都是他们是一个自由的国家，受自己的法律管辖：他们远离大海，四面环山；他们对自己国家丰富的产品感到满意，因此很少与其他国家进行贸易。根据他们国家的智慧，他们无意扩大边界，因此他们的山脉和他们向波斯人支付的抚恤金可以保护他们免受所有入侵。因此，他们之间没有战争；他们的生活相当便利，而不是辉煌，与其说是杰出或著名，不如说是一个幸福的国家。因为我认为，除了他们的近邻之外，任何人都不知道他们的名字。 他们中那些被判犯有盗窃罪的人必须向失主归还，而不是像在其他地方那样向王子归还，因为他们认为王子对赃物的权利并不比小偷更大。如果被偷的东西已经不复存在，那么盗贼的财物就被估价，并归还，剩下的则归给他们的妻子和孩子。他们本身也被判处在公共工程中服役，但不会被监禁或锁链，除非他们的罪行碰巧有某种特殊情况。他们自由自在地为公众工作：如果他们游手好闲或落后于工作，他们就会受到鞭打；但如果他们工作努力，他们就会受到很好的利用和对待，没有任何责备的痕迹；只有他们的名单总是在晚上被点名，然后他们就被关起来了。除了持续不断的劳动之外，他们没有其他的不安。因为，当他们为公众工作时，他们就会从公共资源中得到很好的招待，这在不同的地方有不同的做法：在一些地方，给予他们的任何东西都是通过慈善捐款筹集的；虽然这条路看起来不确定，但那群人的意愿是如此仁慈，以至于他们得到了充足的供应。但在其他地方，政府会为它们拨出公共收入，或者持续征收税收或人头资金来维持它们。在某些地方，他们不从事任何公共工作，但每个有机会雇用工人的私人都会去市场并雇用公共工人，其工资比他雇用自由民的工资要低一些。如果他们懒惰地完成任务，他可能会用鞭子加速他们。 通过这种方式，他们总是有一些工作要做。而且，除了生计之外，他们还为公众赚取一些收入。他们都穿着一种奇特的习惯，某种颜色的头发，头发剪得比耳朵高一点，其中一只耳朵被剪掉了一块。他们的朋友可以给他们肉、饮料或衣服，这样他们就具有适当的颜色；但如果他们给钱，对于给予者和接受者来说都是死亡。对于任何自由人来说，无论出于什么原因从他们那里拿钱，都受到同样的惩罚：对于这些奴隶（他们是这样称呼的）中的任何一个来说，使用武器也是死刑。国家各个地区的奴隶都有一个特殊的标志，他们最好放弃这个标志，走出自己的界限，或者与另一个管辖区的奴隶交谈，而逃跑的企图是不可以的。比逃跑本身受到的惩罚要少。任何其他奴隶如果成为它的附属者，那就是死亡。如果一个自由人参与其中，他就会被判处奴隶制。那些发现它的人会得到奖励——如果是自由人，则是金钱；如果是自由人，则是金钱；如果是自由人，则是金钱。如果是奴隶，则享有自由，并因参与自由而得到赦免；因此，他们可能会发现自己的帐户是对自己参与的这种设计感到后悔，而不是坚持下去。

‘These are their laws and rules in relation to robbery, and it is obvious that they are as advantageous as they are mild and gentle; since vice is not only destroyed and men preserved, but they are treated in such a manner as to make them see the necessity of being honest and of employing the rest of their lives in repairing the injuries they had formerly done to society. Nor is there any hazard of their falling back to their old customs; and so little do travellers apprehend mischief from them that they generally make use of them for guides from one jurisdiction to another; for there is nothing left them by which they can rob or be the better for it, since, as they are disarmed, so the very having of money is a sufficient conviction: and as they are certainly punished if discovered, so they cannot hope to escape; for their habit being in all the parts of it different from what is commonly worn, they cannot fly away, unless they would go naked, and even then their cropped ear would betray them. The only danger to be feared from them is their conspiring against the government; but those of one division and neighbourhood can do nothing to any purpose unless a general conspiracy were laid amongst all the slaves of the several jurisdictions, which cannot be done, since they cannot meet or talk together; nor will any venture on a design where the concealment would be so dangerous and the discovery so profitable. None are quite hopeless of recovering their freedom, since by their obedience and patience, and by giving good grounds to believe that they will change their manner of life for the future, they may expect at last to obtain their liberty, and some are every year restored to it upon the good character that is given of them. When I had related all this, I added that I did not see why such a method might not be followed with more advantage than could ever be expected from that severe justice which the Counsellor magnified so much. To this he answered, ‘That it could never take place in England without endangering the whole nation.’ As he said this he shook his head, made some grimaces, and held his peace, while all the company seemed of his opinion, except the Cardinal, who said, ‘That it was not easy to form a judgment of its success, since it was a method that never yet had been tried; but if,’ said he, ‘when sentence of death were passed upon a thief, the prince would reprieve him for a while, and make the experiment upon him, denying him the privilege of a sanctuary; and then, if it had a good effect upon him, it might take place; and, if it did not succeed, the worst would be to execute the sentence on the condemned persons at last; and I do not see,’ added he, ‘why it would be either unjust, inconvenient, or at all dangerous to admit of such a delay; in my opinion the vagabonds ought to be treated in the same manner, against whom, though we have made many laws, yet we have not been able to gain our end.’ When the Cardinal had done, they all commended the motion, though they had despised it when it came from me, but more particularly commended what related to the vagabonds, because it was his own observation
‘这些是他们关于抢劫的法律和规则，很明显，他们的优势和他们的温和和温和一样；因为罪恶不仅被消灭，人类得以保存，而且他们受到的对待使他们认识到诚实的必要性，并用余生来修复他们以前对社会造成的伤害。他们也不会有回到旧习俗的危险。旅行者很少担心它们会造成伤害，因此他们通常利用它们作为从一个管辖区到另一个管辖区的向导。因为他们已经没有什么可以用来抢劫或改善的了，因为他们已经解除了武装，所以只要有钱就足以有罪：而且，如果被发现，他们肯定会受到惩罚，所以他们不能指望逃脱;因为它们的习惯在所有部分都与通常佩戴的不同，所以它们无法飞走，除非它们赤身裸体，即使如此，它们的短耳朵也会暴露它们。他们唯一令人担心的危险是他们密谋反对政府。但是，一个分区和邻里的奴隶无能为力，除非几个管辖区的所有奴隶之间存在一个普遍的阴谋，这是不可能的，因为他们不能见面或在一起交谈。任何人都不会冒险进行隐藏如此危险而发现如此有利可图的设计。没有人完全没有恢复自由的希望，因为通过他们的服从和耐心，并有充分的理由相信他们将改变未来的生活方式，他们可能期望最终获得自由，而且有些人每年都会获得自由。恢复它是基于他们所赋予的良好品格。 当我讲述完这一切后，我补充说，我不明白为什么采用这种方法可能不会比顾问如此夸大的严厉正义所带来的优势更大。对此，他回答说：“在英国发生这样的事情，绝对不会危及整个国家。”说这话时，他摇了摇头，做了个鬼脸，然后保持沉默，而所有人似乎都同意他的意见，除了卡迪纳尔说：“要对其成功做出判断并不容易，因为这是一种从未尝试过的方法；但如果，”他说，“当一个小偷被判处死刑时，王子会缓刑他一段时间，并对他进行实验，剥夺他获得庇护的特权；然后，如果这件事对他产生了良好的影响，那么它就可能发生；如果不成功，最糟糕的就是最后对死刑犯执行判决。我不明白，”他补充道，“为什么承认这样的拖延是不公正的、不方便的，或者是危险的；在我看来，流浪汉也应该受到同样的对待，虽然我们针对他们制定了许多法律，但我们还没有达到我们的目的。” 红衣主教说完后，他们都称赞了这个动议，虽然当我提出这个动议时他们很鄙视，但更特别赞扬的是与流浪汉有关的内容，因为这是他自己的观察

‘I do not know whether it be worth while to tell what followed, for it was very ridiculous; but I shall venture at it, for as it is not foreign to this matter, so some good use may be made of it. There was a Jester standing by, that counterfeited the fool so naturally that he seemed to be really one; the jests which he offered were so cold and dull that we laughed more at him than at them, yet sometimes he said, as it were by chance, things that were not unpleasant, so as to justify the old proverb, ‘That he who throws the dice often, will sometimes have a lucky hit.’ When one of the company had said that I had taken care of the thieves, and the Cardinal had taken care of the vagabonds, so that there remained nothing but that some public provision might be made for the poor whom sickness or old age had disabled from labour, ‘Leave that to me,’ said the Fool, ‘and I shall take care of them, for there is no sort of people whose sight I abhor more, having been so often vexed with them and with their sad complaints; but as dolefully soever as they have told their tale, they could never prevail so far as to draw one penny from me; for either I had no mind to give them anything, or, when I had a mind to do it, I had nothing to give them; and they now know me so well that they will not lose their labour, but let me pass without giving me any trouble, because they hope for nothing—no more, in faith, than if I were a priest; but I would have a law made for sending all these beggars to monasteries, the men to the Benedictines, to be made lay-brothers, and the women to be nuns.’ The Cardinal smiled, and approved of it in jest, but the rest liked it in earnest. There was a divine present, who, though he was a grave morose man, yet he was so pleased with this reflection that was made on the priests and the monks that he began to play with the Fool, and said to him, ‘This will not deliver you from all beggars, except you take care of us Friars.’ ‘That is done already,’ answered the Fool, ‘for the Cardinal has provided for you by what he proposed for restraining vagabonds and setting them to work, for I know no vagabonds like you.’ This was well entertained by the whole company, who, looking at the Cardinal, perceived that he was not ill-pleased at it; only the Friar himself was vexed, as may be easily imagined, and fell into such a passion that he could not forbear railing at the Fool, and calling him knave, slanderer, backbiter, and son of perdition, and then cited some dreadful threatenings out of the Scriptures against him. Now the Jester thought he was in his element, and laid about him freely. ‘Good Friar,’ said he, ‘be not angry, for it is written, ‘In patience possess your soul.‘‘ The Friar answered (for I shall give you his own words), ‘I am not angry, you hangman; at least, I do not sin in it, for the Psalmist says, ‘Be ye angry and sin not.‘‘ Upon this the Cardinal admonished him gently, and wished him to govern his passions. ‘No, my lord,’ said he, ‘I speak not but from a good zeal, which I ought to have, for holy men have had a good zeal, as it is said, ‘The zeal of thy house hath eaten me up;’ and we sing in our church that those who mocked Elisha as he went up to the house of God felt the effects of his zeal, which that mocker, that rogue, that scoundrel, will perhaps feel.’ ‘You do this, perhaps, with a good intention,’ said the Cardinal, ‘but, in my opinion, it were wiser in you, and perhaps better for you, not to engage in so ridiculous a contest with a Fool.’ ‘No, my lord,’ answered he, ‘that were not wisely done, for Solomon, the wisest of men, said, ‘Answer a Fool according to his folly,’ which I now do, and show him the ditch into which he will fall, if he is not aware of it; for if the many mockers of Elisha, who was but one bald man, felt the effect of his zeal, what will become of the mocker of so many Friars, among whom there are so many bald men? We have, likewise, a bull, by which all that jeer us are excommunicated.’ When the Cardinal saw that there was no end of this matter he made a sign to the Fool to withdraw, turned the discourse another way, and soon after rose from the table, and, dismissing us, went to hear causes.
“我不知道接下来发生的事情是否值得讲述，因为这非常荒谬；但我还是要大胆地讨论一下，因为这对这个问题来说并不陌生，所以它可能会有一些很好的用途。旁边站着一个小丑，他把愚人伪装得如此自然，看起来就像真的一样。他开的玩笑是如此冷漠和乏味，我们对他的笑比对他们的笑还要多，但有时他会说一些并不令人不快的话，这似乎是偶然的，从而证明了那句古老的谚语的合理性：骰子经常，有时会幸运地击中。”当其中一个公司说我已经解决了小偷，红衣主教已经解决了流浪汉，所以除了一些公共规定可能会被保留之外，什么也没有了。愚者说：“把这个留给我吧，我会照顾他们的，因为没有哪一种人的视力比我更厌恶的了，因为经常对他们及其悲伤的抱怨感到烦恼；尽管他们讲述的故事多么悲惨，但他们永远无法从我这里拿走一分钱。因为要么我没有心思给他们任何东西，要么当我有心思这样做时，我却没有什么可以给他们；他们现在对我非常了解，不会浪费他们的劳力，而是让我过去，不会给我带来任何麻烦，因为他们不抱任何希望——在信仰上，就像我是一名牧师一样。 “但我希望制定一项法律，将所有这些乞丐送到修道院，将男人送到本笃会，成为平信徒，而女人则成为修女。”红衣主教微笑着，开玩笑地表示赞同，但其余的人都同意了。真心喜欢它。 有一位神圣的礼物，虽然他是一个严肃的忧郁的人，但他对牧师和僧侣们的这种反映感到非常高兴，他开始与弄臣玩耍，并对他说：“这将除非你照顾我们修道士，否则不能把你从所有乞丐手中救出来。” “那已经完成了，”愚人回答说，“因为红衣主教已经通过他提议的限制流浪汉和让他们工作的方式为你提供了保障，因为我“我不认识像你这样的流浪汉。”这句话引起了全队人的极大兴趣，他们看着红衣主教，发现他对此并没有感到不悦。只有修士本人很恼火，这是可以想象的，他陷入了如此强烈的情绪中，以至于他无法克制地辱骂弄臣，称他为无赖、诽谤者、诽谤者和灭亡之子，然后列举了一些可怕的威胁。圣经反对他。现在小丑认为他已经得心应手了，并且随意地在他身边躺着。 “好修士，”他说，“不要生气，因为经上记着，‘耐心地占有你的灵魂。’”修士回答道（我将告诉你他自己的话），“我没有生气，你这个刽子手；我没有生气。”至少，我没有犯罪，因为诗篇作者说：“你们生气，不要犯罪。”对此，红衣主教温和地告诫他，并希望他控制自己的激情。 “不，大人，”他说，“我这样说只是出于我应该有的热心，因为圣人都有热心，正如所说的那样，‘对你殿堂的热心已经吞噬了我’我们在我们的教会里歌唱，当以利沙上上帝的殿时，那些嘲笑他的人感受到了他热心的影响，那个嘲笑者、那个流氓、那个恶棍也许也会感受到。” “也许你这样做是出于好意，”红衣主教说，“但是，在我看来，不与一个傻瓜进行如此荒谬的竞争对你来说是更明智的，也许对你更好。 “不，大人，”他回答说，“这样做并不明智，因为所罗门，最聪明的人，说过：‘要根据愚人的愚昧回答他’，我现在就这样做，并给他指出他要掉进去的沟渠。”如果他没有意识到，就会跌倒；因为如果以利沙的许多嘲笑者（他只是一个秃头的人）感受到了他的热心的影响，那么嘲笑这么多修士的人会变成什么样子，其中有这么多秃头的人呢？同样，我们也有一头公牛，所有嘲笑我们的人都会被逐出教会。”当红衣主教看到事情没有结束时，他向弄臣示意退出，然后将话题转向另一个方向，不久之后站了起来离开餐桌，打发我们走去听听原因。

‘Thus, Mr. More, I have run out into a tedious story, of the length of which I had been ashamed, if (as you earnestly begged it of me) I had not observed you to hearken to it as if you had no mind to lose any part of it. I might have contracted it, but I resolved to give it you at large, that you might observe how those that despised what I had proposed, no sooner perceived that the Cardinal did not dislike it but presently approved of it, fawned so on him and flattered him to such a degree, that they in good earnest applauded those things that he only liked in jest; and from hence you may gather how little courtiers would value either me or my counsels.’
“因此，莫尔先生，我已经陷入了一个乏味的故事，如果（正如你恳求我的那样）我没有注意到你听它，就好像你没有介意失去它的任何部分。我可能已经感染了它，但我决定把它广泛地交给你，以便你可以观察那些鄙视我提议的人是如何立即意识到红衣主教并不讨厌它，而是很快就批准了它，于是对他进行了巴结，他受宠若惊，以至于他们真诚地为那些他只是开玩笑地喜欢的事情鼓掌。由此你可以看出，朝臣们是多么不重视我或我的建议。

To this I answered, ‘You have done me a great kindness in this relation; for as everything has been related by you both wisely and pleasantly, so you have made me imagine that I was in my own country and grown young again, by recalling that good Cardinal to my thoughts, in whose family I was bred from my childhood; and though you are, upon other accounts, very dear to me, yet you are the dearer because you honour his memory so much; but, after all this, I cannot change my opinion, for I still think that if you could overcome that aversion which you have to the courts of princes, you might, by the advice which it is in your power to give, do a great deal of good to mankind, and this is the chief design that every good man ought to propose to himself in living; for your friend Plato thinks that nations will be happy when either philosophers become kings or kings become philosophers. It is no wonder if we are so far from that happiness while philosophers will not think it their duty to assist kings with their counsels.’ ‘They are not so base-minded,’ said he, ‘but that they would willingly do it; many of them have already done it by their books, if those that are in power would but hearken to their good advice. But Plato judged right, that except kings themselves became philosophers, they who from their childhood are corrupted with false notions would never fall in entirely with the counsels of philosophers, and this he himself found to be true in the person of Dionysius.
对此我回答说：‘在这件事上你给了我很大的恩惠；因为你明智而愉快地讲述了一切，所以你让我想起了那位善良的红衣主教，我从小就是在他的家庭中长大的，因此你让我想象自己回到了自己的国家，又变年轻了。虽然从其他方面来看，你对我来说非常亲爱，但更亲爱的是你，因为你如此尊重他的记忆；但是，在这一切之后，我无法改变我的观点，因为我仍然认为，如果你能够克服对王子宫廷的厌恶，你可以通过你有能力提供的建议，做一个伟大的事情。为人类谋福利，这是每个好人在生活中应该为自己提出的首要目标。因为你的朋友柏拉图认为，当哲学家成为国王或国王成为哲学家时，国家就会幸福。难怪我们离那种幸福如此遥远，而哲学家们不会认为他们有责任协助国王提供建议。”如果当权者愿意听取他们的好建议的话，他们中的许多人已经按照书本行事了。但柏拉图的判断是正确的，除了国王自己成为哲学家之外，那些从小就被错误观念所腐蚀的人永远不会完全接受哲学家的建议，他自己发现狄奥尼修斯本人就是如此。

‘Do not you think that if I were about any king, proposing good laws to him, and endeavouring to root out all the cursed seeds of evil that I found in him, I should either be turned out of his court, or, at least, be laughed at for my pains? For instance, what could I signify if I were about the King of France, and were called into his cabinet council, where several wise men, in his hearing, were proposing many expedients; as, by what arts and practices Milan may be kept, and Naples, that has so often slipped out of their hands, recovered; how the Venetians, and after them the rest of Italy, may be subdued; and then how Flanders, Brabant, and all Burgundy, and some other kingdoms which he has swallowed already in his designs, may be added to his empire? One proposes a league with the Venetians, to be kept as long as he finds his account in it, and that he ought to communicate counsels with them, and give them some share of the spoil till his success makes him need or fear them less, and then it will be easily taken out of their hands; another proposes the hiring the Germans and the securing the Switzers by pensions; another proposes the gaining the Emperor by money, which is omnipotent with him; another proposes a peace with the King of Arragon, and, in order to cement it, the yielding up the King of Navarre’s pretensions; another thinks that the Prince of Castile is to be wrought on by the hope of an alliance, and that some of his courtiers are to be gained to the French faction by pensions. The hardest point of all is, what to do with England; a treaty of peace is to be set on foot, and, if their alliance is not to be depended on, yet it is to be made as firm as possible, and they are to be called friends, but suspected as enemies: therefore the Scots are to be kept in readiness to be let loose upon England on every occasion; and some banished nobleman is to be supported underhand (for by the League it cannot be done avowedly) who has a pretension to the crown, by which means that suspected prince may be kept in awe. Now when things are in so great a fermentation, and so many gallant men are joining counsels how to carry on the war, if so mean a man as I should stand up and wish them to change all their counsels—to let Italy alone and stay at home, since the kingdom of France was indeed greater than could be well governed by one man; that therefore he ought not to think of adding others to it; and if, after this, I should propose to them the resolutions of the Achorians, a people that lie on the south-east of Utopia, who long ago engaged in war in order to add to the dominions of their prince another kingdom, to which he had some pretensions by an ancient alliance: this they conquered, but found that the trouble of keeping it was equal to that by which it was gained; that the conquered people were always either in rebellion or exposed to foreign invasions, while they were obliged to be incessantly at war, either for or against them, and consequently could never disband their army; that in the meantime they were oppressed with taxes, their money went out of the kingdom, their blood was spilt for the glory of their king without procuring the least advantage to the people, who received not the smallest benefit from it even in time of peace; and that, their manners being corrupted by a long war, robbery and murders everywhere abounded, and their laws fell into contempt; while their king, distracted with the care of two kingdoms, was the less able to apply his mind to the interest of either. When they saw this, and that there would be no end to these evils, they by joint counsels made an humble address to their king, desiring him to choose which of the two kingdoms he had the greatest mind to keep, since he could not hold both; for they were too great a people to be governed by a divided king, since no man would willingly have a groom that should be in common between him and another. Upon which the good prince was forced to quit his new kingdom to one of his friends (who was not long after dethroned), and to be contented with his old one. To this I would add that after all those warlike attempts, the vast confusions, and the consumption both of treasure and of people that must follow them, perhaps upon some misfortune they might be forced to throw up all at last; therefore it seemed much more eligible that the king should improve his ancient kingdom all he could, and make it flourish as much as possible; that he should love his people, and be beloved of them; that he should live among them, govern them gently and let other kingdoms alone, since that which had fallen to his share was big enough, if not too big, for him:pray, how do you think would such a speech as this be heard?’
“你不认为如果我是关于任何一位国王，向他提出良好的法律，并努力根除我在他身上发现的所有被诅咒的邪恶种子，我应该要么被赶出他的宫廷，要么至少，我的苦心被人嘲笑吗？例如，如果我是关于法国国王的事，被召集到他的内阁会议上，几位智者在他的听证会上提出了许多权宜之计，那么我能意味着什么？米兰可以通过什么手段和实践得以保住，而那不勒斯则经常从他们手中溜走，从而恢复过来？如何征服威尼斯人和随后的意大利其他地区？那么，佛兰德斯、布拉班特、整个勃艮第以及他已经在他的计划中吞并的其他一些王国如何才能被纳入他的帝国呢？有人提议与威尼斯人结盟，只要他在其中找到自己的账目，就可以保留该联盟，并且他应该与他们沟通建议，并给他们一些战利品，直到他的成功使他不再需要或害怕他们为止，然后它就会轻易地从他们手中夺走；另一种建议雇用德国人并通过养老金保障瑞士人；另一种则主张以金钱得皇帝，金钱对他来说是万能的。另一个提议与阿拉贡国王讲和，为了巩固和平，放弃纳瓦拉国王的主张；另一种观点则认为，卡斯蒂利亚亲王是为了结盟而努力的，而他的一些朝臣则是通过养老金来拉拢法国派系的。 最困难的一点是，如何对待英格兰？必须签订和平条约，如果他们的联盟不可靠，则应尽可能使其牢固，他们将被称为朋友，但被怀疑为敌人：因此苏格兰人随时准备在任何情况下向英格兰发起攻击；一些被放逐的贵族会得到暗中支持（因为联盟不能公开这样做），他们声称自己是王位，这样可以让可疑的王子保持敬畏。 现在，当事态如此激烈地发酵，这么多英勇的人正在共同商议如何进行战争时，如果像我这样卑鄙的人，我应该站起来并希望他们改变所有的建议——让意大利独自一人并留下来在国内，因为法兰西王国确实幅员辽阔，一个人无法治理好。因此他不应该考虑添加其他人；如果在此之后我向他们提出阿乔里亚人的决议，阿乔里亚人是乌托邦东南部的一个民族，他们很久以前就参与战争，以便在他们的王子的领土上增加另一个王国，他对一个古老的联盟有一些自负：他们征服了这个联盟，但发现维持它的麻烦与获得它的麻烦相同。被征服的人民总是要么叛乱，要么遭受外国入侵，而他们则被迫不断地处于战争状态，无论是支持还是反对他们，因此永远无法解散他们的军队；与此同时，他们受到税收的压迫，他们的钱流出了王国，他们为国王的荣耀而流血，却没有给人民带来丝毫好处，即使在和平时期，人民也没有从中得到哪怕一丁点好处;他们的行为因长期战争而败坏，抢劫和谋杀随处可见，他们的法律也遭到蔑视。而他们的国王则因照顾两个王国而心烦意乱，不太能够将自己的注意力集中在两个王国的利益上。 当他们看到这一点，并且看到这些罪恶将永无休止时，他们联合商议，向他们的国王发出谦卑的讲话，希望他选择他最愿意保留的两个王国中的哪一个，因为他无法保留两个都;因为他们是一个太大的民族，不能由一个分裂的国王来统治，因为没有人愿意有一个与另一个人共同的新郎。善良的王子被迫将他的新王国让给他的一位朋友（他不久后被废黜），并满足于他的旧王国。对此我要补充一点，在经历了所有这些好战的尝试、巨大的混乱以及必须追随他们的财宝和人员的消耗之后，也许由于某种不幸，他们最终可能会被迫放弃一切；因此，国王似乎更有资格尽其所能地改善他古老的王国，并使其尽可能繁荣。他应该爱他的人民，并被他们所爱；他应该生活在他们中间，温柔地统治他们，不要打扰其他王国，因为对他来说，落入他手中的王国已经足够大了，即使不是太大：祈祷，你认为这样的演讲会被听到吗？ ？’

‘I confess,’ said I, ‘I think not very well.’
“我承认，”我说，“我觉得不太好。”

‘But what,’ said he, ‘if I should sort with another kind of ministers, whose chief contrivances and consultations were by what art the prince’s treasures might be increased? where one proposes raising the value of specie when the king’s debts are large, and lowering it when his revenues were to come in, that so he might both pay much with a little, and in a little receive a great deal. Another proposes a pretence of a war, that money might be raised in order to carry it on, and that a peace be concluded as soon as that was done; and this with such appearances of religion as might work on the people, and make them impute it to the piety of their prince, and to his tenderness for the lives of his subjects. A third offers some old musty laws that have been antiquated by a long disuse (and which, as they had been forgotten by all the subjects, so they had also been broken by them), and proposes the levying the penalties of these laws, that, as it would bring in a vast treasure, so there might be a very good pretence for it, since it would look like the executing a law and the doing of justice. A fourth proposes the prohibiting of many things under severe penalties, especially such as were against the interest of the people, and then the dispensing with these prohibitions, upon great compositions, to those who might find their advantage in breaking them. This would serve two ends, both of them acceptable to many; for as those whose avarice led them to transgress would be severely fined, so the selling licences dear would look as if a prince were tender of his people, and would not easily, or at low rates, dispense with anything that might be against the public good. Another proposes that the judges must be made sure, that they may declare always in favour of the prerogative; that they must be often sent for to court, that the king may hear them argue those points in which he is concerned; since, how unjust soever any of his pretensions may be, yet still some one or other of them, either out of contradiction to others, or the pride of singularity, or to make their court, would find out some pretence or other to give the king a fair colour to carry the point. For if the judges but differ in opinion, the clearest thing in the world is made by that means disputable, and truth being once brought in question, the king may then take advantage to expound the law for his own profit; while the judges that stand out will be brought over, either through fear or modesty; and they being thus gained, all of them may be sent to the Bench to give sentence boldly as the king would have it; for fair pretences will never be wanting when sentence is to be given in the prince’s favour. It will either be said that equity lies of his side, or some words in the law will be found sounding that way, or some forced sense will be put on them; and, when all other things fail, the king’s undoubted prerogative will be pretended, as that which is above all law, and to which a religious judge ought to have a special regard. Thus all consent to that maxim of Crassus, that a prince cannot have treasure enough, since he must maintain his armies out of it; that a king, even though he would, can do nothing unjustly; that all property is in him, not excepting the very persons of his subjects; and that no man has any other property but that which the king, out of his goodness, thinks fit to leave him. And they think it is the prince’s interest that there be as little of this left as may be, as if it were his advantage that his people should have neither riches nor liberty, since these things make them less easy and willing to submit to a cruel and unjust government. Whereas necessity and poverty blunts them, makes them patient, beats them down, and breaks that height of spirit that might otherwise dispose them to rebel. Now what if, after all these propositions were made, I should rise up and assert that such counsels were both unbecoming a king and mischievous to him; and that not only his honour, but his safety, consisted more in his people’s wealth than in his own; if I should show that they choose a king for their own sake, and not for his; that, by his care and endeavours, they may be both easy and safe; and that, therefore, a prince ought to take more care of his people’s happiness than of his own, as a shepherd is to take more care of his flock than of himself? It is also certain that they are much mistaken that think the poverty of a nation is a mean of the public safety. Who quarrel more than beggars? who does more earnestly long for a change than he that is uneasy in his present circumstances? and who run to create confusions with so desperate a boldness as those who, having nothing to lose, hope to gain by them? If a king should fall under such contempt or envy that he could not keep his subjects in their duty but by oppression and ill usage, and by rendering them poor and miserable, it were certainly better for him to quit his kingdom than to retain it by such methods as make him, while he keeps the name of authority, lose the majesty due to it. Nor is it so becoming the dignity of a king to reign over beggars as over rich and happy subjects. And therefore Fabricius, a man of a noble and exalted temper, said ‘he would rather govern rich men than be rich himself; since for one man to abound in wealth and pleasure when all about him are mourning and groaning, is to be a gaoler and not a king.’ He is an unskilful physician that cannot cure one disease without casting his patient into another. So he that can find no other way for correcting the errors of his people but by taking from them the conveniences of life, shows that he knows not what it is to govern a free nation. He himself ought rather to shake off his sloth, or to lay down his pride, for the contempt or hatred that his people have for him takes its rise from the vices in himself. Let him live upon what belongs to him without wronging others, and accommodate his expense to his revenue. Let him punish crimes, and, by his wise conduct, let him endeavour to prevent them, rather than be severe when he has suffered them to be too common. Let him not rashly revive laws that are abrogated by disuse, especially if they have been long forgotten and never wanted. And let him never take any penalty for the breach of them to which a judge would not give way in a private man, but would look on him as a crafty and unjust person for pretending to it. To these things I would add that law among the Macarians—a people that live not far from Utopia—by which their king, on the day on which he began to reign, is tied by an oath, confirmed by solemn sacrifices, never to have at once above a thousand pounds of gold in his treasures, or so much silver as is equal to that in value. This law, they tell us, was made by an excellent king who had more regard to the riches of his country than to his own wealth, and therefore provided against the heaping up of so much treasure as might impoverish the people. He thought that moderate sum might be sufficient for any accident, if either the king had occasion for it against the rebels, or the kingdom against the invasion of an enemy; but that it was not enough to encourage a prince to invade other men’s rights—a circumstance that was the chief cause of his making that law. He also thought that it was a good provision for that free circulation of money so necessary for the course of commerce and exchange. And when a king must distribute all those extraordinary accessions that increase treasure beyond the due pitch, it makes him less disposed to oppress his subjects. Such a king as this will be the terror of ill men, and will be beloved by all the good.
“但是，”他说，“如果我要找另一种大臣，他们的主要目的和协商是通过什么方法来增加王子的财富呢？有人提议，当国王的债务很大时，就提高货币的价值；当国王的收入增加时，就降低货币的价值，这样他既可以用很少的钱支付很多，又可以用很少的钱得到很多。另一种建议假装战争，筹集资金以维持战争，一旦完成就立即缔结和平；这种宗教的表现可能会对人民产生影响，使他们将其归因于他们的君主的​​虔诚和他对臣民生命的温柔。第三种提出了一些因长期废弃而过时的陈旧法律（而且，由于所有臣民都忘记了这些法律，因此这些法律也被他们所破坏），并建议对这些法律征收惩罚， ，因为它会带来巨大的财富，所以它可能有一个很好的借口，因为它看起来像是执行法律和伸张正义。第四种建议以严厉的惩罚来禁止许多事情，特别是那些违背人民利益的事情，然后根据伟大的构想废除这些禁令，让那些可能发现违反它们的人有利。这有两个目的，两者都为许多人所接受。因为那些因贪婪而违法的人会被处以严厉的罚款，因此，昂贵的许可证出售看起来就像一位王子对他的人民很温柔，并且不会轻易或以低利率免除任何可能不利于公众的东西。好的。 另一种建议是，法官必须确保他们可以宣布始终支持特权；必须经常将他们送上法庭，以便国王可以听到他们就他所关心的问题进行辩论；因为，无论他的任何主张多么不公正，但他们中的某些人，要么出于与他人的矛盾，要么出于独特性的骄傲，要么为了讨好，会找出某种借口来给予国王以公平的颜色来承载这一点。因为如果法官们意见不同，那么世界上最清楚的事情就因此而变得有争议，一旦真理受到质疑，国王就可以利用解释法律来谋取自己的利益；而那些脱颖而出的法官将被带过来，要么是出于恐惧，要么是出于谦虚；如此获得这些人后，所有这些人都可以被送到法官席上，按照国王的意愿大胆地作出判决。因为当判决对王子有利时，公平的借口永远不会缺乏。要么会说公平属于他这一方，要么会发现法律中的某些词语听起来是这样，或者会被强加一些意义；当所有其他事情都失败时，国王无疑的特权将被假装为高于一切法律的特权，宗教法官应该特别重视这一特权。因此，所有人都同意克拉苏的那句格言，即君主拥有的财富是不够的，因为他必须用它来维持他的军队。国王即使愿意，也不能做任何不公正的事；所有财产都归他所有，包括他臣民的个人；除了国王出于仁慈而认为适合留给他的财产外，没有人拥有任何其他财产。 他们认为，王子的利益是让这种东西尽可能少地留下来，就好像他的人民既没有财富也没有自由是他的优势，因为这些东西使他们不那么容易和愿意屈服于残酷的统治。和不公正的政府。然而，贫困和贫困却让他们变得迟钝，让他们变得有耐心，把他们击垮，并破坏了他们原本可能会叛逆的精神高度。现在，如果在提出所有这些主张之后，我站起来断言这些建议既不符合国王的身份，又对他有害，那又怎么样呢？不仅他的荣誉，而且他的安全，更多地取决于他的人民的财富，而不是他自己的财富。如果我要表明他们选择国王是为了他们自己，而不是为了他；通过他的关心和努力，他们可以既轻松又安全；因此，一个君主应该更多地关心他的人民的幸福而不是他自己的幸福，就像一个牧羊人应该更多地照顾他的羊群而不是他自己一样？同样可以肯定的是，他们认为一个国家的贫困是公共安全的手段是大错特错的。谁比乞丐更吵架？谁比那些对目前处境感到不安的人更热切地渴望改变呢？还有谁像那些一无所失却希望从中获益的人一样，如此大胆地去制造混乱呢？如果一个国王受到如此的蔑视或嫉妒，以至于他无法让他的臣民履行职责，除非通过压迫和虐待，使他们变得贫穷和悲惨，那么对他来说，放弃他的王国肯定比通过保留王国更好。这些方法使他在保有权威之名的同时，却因此失去了威严。国王统治乞丐也不像统治富裕幸福的臣民那样有尊严。 因此，性情高贵而崇高的法布里修斯说：“他宁愿统治富人，也不愿自己成为富人；”因为当一个人周围都在哀悼和呻吟时，一个人却拥有丰富的财富和快乐，这就像一个狱卒，而不是一个国王。”他是一位不熟练的医生，不能治愈一种疾病，而不会让他的病人陷入另一种疾病。因此，如果一个人除了剥夺人民的生活便利之外，别无他法来纠正他们的错误，这表明他不知道什么是治理一个自由国家。他本人应该摆脱懒惰，或者放下骄傲，因为他的人民对他的蔑视或仇恨是源于他自己的恶习。让他靠自己的东西生活，不冤枉别人，让他的支出与他的收入相适应。让他惩罚犯罪，并通过他的明智行为，努力阻止犯罪，而不是当他让犯罪变得太普遍时就采取严厉措施。让他不要鲁莽地恢复那些因废弃而被废除的法律，特别是那些早已被遗忘且从未被需要的法律。让他永远不要因为违反这些规定而接受任何处罚，而法官对于一个普通人是不会让步的，但会因为他假装这样做而将他视为狡猾和不公正的人。对于这些事情，我想补充一下，马卡里人（一个居住在离乌托邦不远的民族）中的法律，根据该法律，他们的国王在他开始统治的那一天，必须发誓，并通过庄严的牺牲来确认，永远不会他的财宝中立刻就有超过一千磅的黄金，或者等值的白银。 他们告诉我们，这项法律是由一位优秀的国王制定的，他更关心自己国家的财富而不是自己的财富，因此禁止堆积过多的财富，以免人民陷入贫困。他认为，如果国王有机会对抗叛乱分子，或者王国有机会对抗敌人的入侵，那么适度的金额可能足以应对任何意外。但这还不足以鼓励王子侵犯其他人的权利——这种情况是他制定这项法律的主要原因。他还认为，这对于商业和交换过程中所必需的货币自由流通来说是一个很好的规定。当国王必须分配所有这些非凡的物品来增加超出应有的财富时，他就不太愿意压迫他的臣民。这样的国王将令恶人畏惧，并受到所有善良者的爱戴。

‘If, I say, I should talk of these or such-like things to men that had taken their bias another way, how deaf would they be to all I could say!’ ‘No doubt, very deaf,’ answered I; ‘and no wonder, for one is never to offer propositions or advice that we are certain will not be entertained. Discourses so much out of the road could not avail anything, nor have any effect on men whose minds were prepossessed with different sentiments. This philosophical way of speculation is not unpleasant among friends in a free conversation; but there is no room for it in the courts of princes, where great affairs are carried on by authority.’ ‘That is what I was saying,’ replied he, ‘that there is no room for philosophy in the courts of princes.’ ‘Yes, there is,’ said I, ‘but not for this speculative philosophy, that makes everything to be alike fitting at all times; but there is another philosophy that is more pliable, that knows its proper scene, accommodates itself to it, and teaches a man with propriety and decency to act that part which has fallen to his share. If when one of Plautus’ comedies is upon the stage, and a company of servants are acting their parts, you should come out in the garb of a philosopher, and repeat, out of Octavia, a discourse of Seneca’s to Nero, would it not be better for you to say nothing than by mixing things of such different natures to make an impertinent tragi-comedy? for you spoil and corrupt the play that is in hand when you mix with it things of an opposite nature, even though they are much better. Therefore go through with the play that is acting the best you can, and do not confound it because another that is pleasanter comes into your thoughts. It is even so in a commonwealth and in the councils of princes; if ill opinions cannot be quite rooted out, and you cannot cure some received vice according to your wishes, you must not, therefore, abandon the commonwealth, for the same reasons as you should not forsake the ship in a storm because you cannot command the winds. You are not obliged to assault people with discourses that are out of their road, when you see that their received notions must prevent your making an impression upon them: you ought rather to cast about and to manage things with all the dexterity in your power, so that, if you are not able to make them go well, they may be as little ill as possible; for, except all men were good, everything cannot be right, and that is a blessing that I do not at present hope to see.’ ‘According to your argument,’ answered he, ‘all that I could be able to do would be to preserve myself from being mad while I endeavoured to cure the madness of others; for, if I speak with, I must repeat what I have said to you; and as for lying, whether a philosopher can do it or not I cannot tell: I am sure I cannot do it. But though these discourses may be uneasy and ungrateful to them, I do not see why they should seem foolish or extravagant; indeed, if I should either propose such things as Plato has contrived in his ‘Commonwealth,’ or as the Utopians practise in theirs, though they might seem better, as certainly they are, yet they are so different from our establishment, which is founded on property (there being no such thing among them), that I could not expect that it would have any effect on them. But such discourses as mine, which only call past evils to mind and give warning of what may follow, leave nothing in them that is so absurd that they may not be used at any time, for they can only be unpleasant to those who are resolved to run headlong the contrary way; and if we must let alone everything as absurd or extravagant—which, by reason of the wicked lives of many, may seem uncouth—we must, even among Christians, give over pressing the greatest part of those things that Christ hath taught us, though He has commanded us not to conceal them, but to proclaim on the housetops that which He taught in secret. The greatest parts of His precepts are more opposite to the lives of the men of this age than any part of my discourse has been, but the preachers seem to have learned that craft to which you advise me: for they, observing that the world would not willingly suit their lives to the rules that Christ has given, have fitted His doctrine, as if it had been a leaden rule, to their lives, that so, some way or other, they might agree with one another. But I see no other effect of this compliance except it be that men become more secure in their wickedness by it; and this is all the success that I can have in a court, for I must always differ from the rest, and then I shall signify nothing; or, if I agree with them, I shall then only help forward their madness. I do not comprehend what you mean by your ‘casting about,’ or by ‘the bending and handling things so dexterously that, if they go not well, they may go as little ill as may be;’ for in courts they will not bear with a man’s holding his peace or conniving at what others do: a man must barefacedly approve of the worst counsels and consent to the blackest designs, so that he would pass for a spy, or, possibly, for a traitor, that did but coldly approve of such wicked practices; and therefore when a man is engaged in such a society, he will be so far from being able to mend matters by his ‘casting about,’ as you call it, that he will find no occasions of doing any good—the ill company will sooner corrupt him than be the better for him; or if, notwithstanding all their ill company, he still remains steady and innocent, yet their follies and knavery will be imputed to him; and, by mixing counsels with them, he must bear his share of all the blame that belongs wholly to others.
“我说，如果我向那些以另一种方式持有偏见的人谈论这些或类似的事情，他们会对我所说的一切充耳不闻！” “这也不足为奇，因为我们永远不会提出我们确信不会被接受的主张或建议。如此脱离实际的言论没有任何用处，对于那些心怀不同情感的人也没有任何影响。这种哲学思考方式在朋友之间自由交谈中并不令人不快； “这就是我所说的，”他回答说，“在诸侯的宫廷里没有哲学的空间。” “是的，有，”我说，“但不是因为这种思辨哲学，它使一切在任何时候都一样合适；”但还有另一种哲学更为灵活，它知道它的适当场景，适应它，并教导一个人以礼节和正派来扮演属于他的角色。如果当普劳图斯的一部喜剧搬上舞台，一群仆人正在表演自己的角色时，你应该穿上哲学家的外衣，从奥克塔维亚那里重复塞内卡对尼禄的一段对话，不是吗？对你来说，什么都不说，比把性质如此不同的东西混合在一起，拍出一部无礼的悲喜剧更好吗？因为当你将相反性质的东西混合在一起时，你就会破坏和破坏正在进行的游戏，即使它们要好得多。因此，尽你所能去演完那部表演最好的戏，不要因为你想到了另一部更令人愉快的戏而把它弄混了。 在联邦和诸侯的议会中更是如此。如果不好的意见不能完全根除，并且你不能按照你的意愿治愈一些公认的恶习，那么你就不能放弃联邦，就像你不能在暴风雨中抛弃船只一样，因为你不能指挥国家。风。当你看到他们所接受的观念必须阻止你给他们留下印象时，你没有义务用不符合他们道路的话语来攻击他们：你应该用你的力量中的所有灵巧来思考和处理事情，因此，如果你不能让他们过得好，他们可能会尽可能少生病。因为，除非所有人都是善良的，否则一切都不可能是正确的，而这是我目前不希望看到的祝福。”“根据你的论点，”他回答说，“我所能做的就是当我努力治愈别人的疯狂时，要保护自己不发疯；因为，如果我跟你说话，我必须重复我对你说过的话；至于说谎，哲学家是否能做到这一点，我无法判断：我确信我做不到。尽管这些言论可能让他们感到不安和忘恩负义，但我不明白为什么它们会显得愚蠢或奢侈；事实上，如果我提出柏拉图在他的“共同体”中所设想的东西，或者乌托邦主义者在他们的“共同体”中实践的东西，尽管它们可能看起来更好，事实上它们确实如此，但它们与我们的建立有很大的不同，我们的建立是建立在关于财产（他们当中没有这样的事情），我无法指望这会对他们产生任何影响。 但是，像我这样的话语，只是唤起过去的罪恶，并对将要发生的事情提出警告，其中没有留下任何荒谬的东西，以致于任何时候都不能使用它们，因为它们只会让那些下定决心的人感到不愉快。向相反的方向猛冲；如果我们必须放弃一切荒谬或奢侈的事情——由于许多人的邪恶生活，这些事情可能显得粗俗——我们就必须放弃基督所教导我们的大部分事情，即使在基督徒中也是如此。他命令我们不要隐藏它们，而要在屋顶上宣扬他秘密教导的内容。他的戒律中最重要的部分比我讲道中的任何部分都更与这个时代的人的生活相反，但传教士们似乎已经学会了你建议我做的那门手艺：因为他们观察到世界会不愿意让他们的生活适应基督所赐下的规则，却把他的教义（仿佛这是一条铅规则）适应了他们的生活，这样，他们就可以以某种方式彼此同意。但我看不出这种服从有任何其他效果，除了使人们在他们的邪恶中变得更加安全之外。这就是我在法庭上所能取得的全部成功，因为我必须始终与其他人不同，然后我就毫无意义了。或者，如果我同意他们的观点，那么我只会助长他们的疯狂。 我不明白你所说的“左右移动”或“如此巧妙地弯曲和处理事物，以至于如果事情进展不顺利，他们可能会生病”，因为在法庭上他们不会忍受一个人保持沉默或纵容别人的所作所为：一个人必须毫不掩饰地赞同最糟糕的建议，同意最黑暗的计划，这样他就会被视为间谍，或者可能被视为叛徒，而他只是冷酷地这样做赞同这种邪恶的做法；因此，当一个人置身于这样的社会中时，他将根本无法通过你所谓的“四处奔波”来解决问题，以至于他找不到任何行善的机会——坏人会与其让他变得更好，不如让他败坏。或者，如果尽管他们的关系不好，他仍然保持镇静和纯真，那么他们的愚蠢和恶行就会归咎于他；而且，通过与他们商议，他必须承担完全属于他人的所有责任。

‘It was no ill simile by which Plato set forth the unreasonableness of a philosopher’s meddling with government. ‘If a man,’ says he, ‘were to see a great company run out every day into the rain and take delight in being wet—if he knew that it would be to no purpose for him to go and persuade them to return to their houses in order to avoid the storm, and that all that could be expected by his going to speak to them would be that he himself should be as wet as they, it would be best for him to keep within doors, and, since he had not influence enough to correct other people’s folly, to take care to preserve himself.’
“柏拉图用这个比喻来阐述哲学家干预政府的不合理性，这并不是一个不好的比喻。 “如果一个人，”他说，“每天看到一大群人跑到雨中，并以被淋湿为乐——如果他知道他去劝他们返回是没有意义的。”他们的房子是为了躲避暴风雨，而他要和他们说话时所能想到的就是他自己会像他们一样湿漉漉的，所以他最好待在室内，而且，因为他他没有足够的影响力来纠正别人的愚蠢行为，也无法注意保护自己。”

‘Though, to speak plainly my real sentiments, I must freely own that as long as there is any property, and while money is the standard of all other things, I cannot think that a nation can be governed either justly or happily: not justly, because the best things will fall to the share of the worst men; nor happily, because all things will be divided among a few (and even these are not in all respects happy), the rest being left to be absolutely miserable. Therefore, when I reflect on the wise and good constitution of the Utopians, among whom all things are so well governed and with so few laws, where virtue hath its due reward, and yet there is such an equality that every man lives in plenty— when I compare with them so many other nations that are still making new laws, and yet can never bring their constitution to a right regulation; where, notwithstanding every one has his property, yet all the laws that they can invent have not the power either to obtain or preserve it, or even to enable men certainly to distinguish what is their own from what is another’s, of which the many lawsuits that every day break out, and are eternally depending, give too plain a demonstration—when, I say, I balance all these things in my thoughts, I grow more favourable to Plato, and do not wonder that he resolved not to make any laws for such as would not submit to a community of all things; for so wise a man could not but foresee that the setting all upon a level was the only way to make a nation happy; which cannot be obtained so long as there is property, for when every man draws to himself all that he can compass, by one title or another, it must needs follow that, how plentiful soever a nation may be, yet a few dividing the wealth of it among themselves, the rest must fall into indigence. So that there will be two sorts of people among them, who deserve that their fortunes should be interchanged—the former useless, but wicked and ravenous; and the latter, who by their constant industry serve the public more than themselves, sincere and modest men—from whence I am persuaded that till property is taken away, there can be no equitable or just distribution of things, nor can the world be happily governed; for as long as that is maintained, the greatest and the far best part of mankind, will be still oppressed with a load of cares and anxieties. I confess, without taking it quite away, those pressures that lie on a great part of mankind may be made lighter, but they can never be quite removed; for if laws were made to determine at how great an extent in soil, and at how much money, every man must stop—to limit the prince, that he might not grow too great; and to restrain the people, that they might not become too insolent—and that none might factiously aspire to public employments, which ought neither to be sold nor made burdensome by a great expense, since otherwise those that serve in them would be tempted to reimburse themselves by cheats and violence, and it would become necessary to find out rich men for undergoing those employments, which ought rather to be trusted to the wise. These laws, I say, might have such effect as good diet and care might have on a sick man whose recovery is desperate; they might allay and mitigate the disease, but it could never be quite healed, nor the body politic be brought again to a good habit as long as property remains; and it will fall out, as in a complication of diseases, that by applying a remedy to one sore you will provoke another, and that which removes the one ill symptom produces others, while the strengthening one part of the body weakens the rest.’ ‘On the contrary,’ answered I, ‘it seems to me that men cannot live conveniently where all things are common. How can there be any plenty where every man will excuse himself from labour? for as the hope of gain doth not excite him, so the confidence that he has in other men’s industry may make him slothful. If people come to be pinched with want, and yet cannot dispose of anything as their own, what can follow upon this but perpetual sedition and bloodshed, especially when the reverence and authority due to magistrates falls to the ground? for I cannot imagine how that can be kept up among those that are in all things equal to one another.’ ‘I do not wonder,’ said he, ‘that it appears so to you, since you have no notion, or at least no right one, of such a constitution; but if you had been in Utopia with me, and had seen their laws and rules, as I did, for the space of five years, in which I lived among them, and during which time I was so delighted with them that indeed I should never have left them if it had not been to make the discovery of that new world to the Europeans, you would then confess that you had never seen a people so well constituted as they.’ ‘You will not easily persuade me,’ said Peter, ‘that any nation in that new world is better governed than those among us; for as our understandings are not worse than theirs, so our government (if I mistake not) being more ancient, a long practice has helped us to find out many conveniences of life, and some happy chances have discovered other things to us which no man’s understanding could ever have invented.’ ‘As for the antiquity either of their government or of ours,’ said he, ‘you cannot pass a true judgment of it unless you had read their histories; for, if they are to be believed, they had towns among them before these parts were so much as inhabited; and as for those discoveries that have been either hit on by chance or made by ingenious men, these might have happened there as well as here. I do not deny but we are more ingenious than they are, but they exceed us much in industry and application. They knew little concerning us before our arrival among them. They call us all by a general name of ‘The nations that lie beyond the equinoctial line;’ for their chronicle mentions a shipwreck that was made on their coast twelve hundred years ago, and that some Romans and Egyptians that were in the ship, getting safe ashore, spent the rest of their days amongst them; and such was their ingenuity that from this single opportunity they drew the advantage of learning from those unlooked-for guests, and acquired all the useful arts that were then among the Romans, and which were known to these shipwrecked men; and by the hints that they gave them they themselves found out even some of those arts which they could not fully explain, so happily did they improve that accident of having some of our people cast upon their shore. But if such an accident has at any time brought any from thence into Europe, we have been so far from improving it that we do not so much as remember it, as, in aftertimes perhaps, it will be forgot by our people that I was ever there; for though they, from one such accident, made themselves masters of all the good inventions that were among us, yet I believe it would be long before we should learn or put in practice any of the good institutions that are among them. And this is the true cause of their being better governed and living happier than we, though we come not short of them in point of understanding or outward advantages.’ Upon this I said to him, ‘I earnestly beg you would describe that island very particularly to us; be not too short, but set out in order all things relating to their soil, their rivers, their towns, their people, their manners, constitution, laws, and, in a word, all that you imagine we desire to know; and you may well imagine that we desire to know everything concerning them of which we are hitherto ignorant.’ ‘I will do it very willingly,’ said he, ‘for I have digested the whole matter carefully, but it will take up some time.’ ‘Let us go, then,’ said I, ‘first and dine, and then we shall have leisure enough.’ He consented; we went in and dined, and after dinner came back and sat down in the same place. I ordered my servants to take care that none might come and interrupt us, and both Peter and I desired Raphael to be as good as his word. When he saw that we were very intent upon it he paused a little to recollect himself, and began in this manner:-
“尽管如此，为了坦白地表达我的真实情感，我必须自由地承认，只要有财产，虽然金钱是一切其他事物的标准，但我不能认为一个国家可以被公正或幸福地治理：不公正，因为最好的东西会落到最坏的人手中；也不幸福，因为所有的事情都会被少数人瓜分（甚至这些人也不是在所有方面都幸福），其余的人则绝对悲惨。 因此，当我思考乌托邦人的明智而良好的宪法时，在他们中间，一切事物都受到如此良好的管理，法律却如此之少，美德得到应有的回报，但又存在如此平等，使每个人都生活在富裕之中——当我与他们相比时，许多其他国家仍在制定新法律，但永远无法使他们的宪法得到正确的规范；尽管每个人都拥有自己的财产，但他们可以发明的所有法律都没有能力获得或保护财产，甚至无法使人们明确区分什么是自己的，什么是别人的，其中许多诉讼每一天的爆发，并且永远依赖，给出了太明显的证明——我说，当我在思想中平衡所有这些事情时，我变得更加支持柏拉图，并且不奇怪他决心不制定任何法律因为那些不肯服从万物共同体的人；因为如此明智的人不能不预见到，将一切置于同一水平上是使一个国家幸福的唯一途径。只要有财产，就不可能获得这种财产，因为当每个人通过一种或另一种头衔，将他所能拥有的一切都吸引到自己身上时，必然需要遵循这样的结论：无论一个国家多么富裕，但少数人却瓜分了财富如果他们自己都失去了这一点，其余的人就必然陷入贫困。 这样一来，他们当中就会有两种人，他们的命运应该互换——前者无用，但却邪恶贪婪；后者则无用，但邪恶贪婪。后者，他们通过不断的勤奋为公众服务，而不是为自己服务，他们是真诚而谦虚的人——从这里我相信，除非财产被剥夺，否则就不可能公平或公正地分配事物，世界也不可能幸福管辖；因为只要这种情况继续存在，人类最伟大、最优秀的部分就仍然会被忧虑和焦虑的重担所压迫。我承认，虽然没有完全消除这种压力，但人​​类大部分人所承受的压力可能会减轻，但永远无法完全消除。因为如果制定法律来确定土地的面积和金钱的多少，那么每个人都必须停止限制君主，以免他变得太大；并约束人民，使他们不会变得太傲慢，并且没有人会煽动地渴望担任公共职位，这些职位既不应该被出售，也不应该因巨额费用而成为负担，否则，在这些职位上任职的人就会试图报销他们自己通过欺骗和暴力，有必要找到有钱人来从事这些工作，而这应该相信明智的人。 我想说的是，这些法律对于一个康复急需的病人来说，可能会产生良好的饮食和护理的效果。它们可能会缓解和减轻疾病，但只要财产仍然存在，它就永远不可能完全治愈，也不可能使国家重新养成良好的习惯；正如疾病的并发症一样，通过对一种疼痛进行治疗，你会激起另一种疼痛，消除一种症状会产生其他症状，而加强身体的某一部分则会削弱其他部分。 “恰恰相反，”我回答道，“在我看来，在所有东西都共有的地方，人们无法舒适地生活。”怎么会有那么多人可以逃避劳动的事情呢？因为，正如他对获得利益的希望不感兴趣一样，他对别人的勤奋的信心也可能使他变得懒惰。如果人们穷困潦倒，却又不能处置属于自己的东西，那么，除了永不停歇的骚乱和流血之外，还能有什么呢？特别是当官员的尊敬和权威落到了地上的时候？ “我不奇怪，”他说，“在你看来是这样，因为你没有概念，或者至少没有概念。”没有人适合这样一部宪法；但是，如果你和我一起在乌托邦，并且像我一样，在我和他们一起生活的五年时间里，了解了他们的法律和规则，并且在这段时间里，我对他们感到如此高兴，那么我确实应该如果不是欧洲人发现了那个新世界，你就会承认你从未见过像他们这样结构良好的民族。” 彼得说：“你很难让我相信，那个新世界里的任何一个国家都比我们国家治理得更好。因为我们的理解力并不比他们差，所以我们的政府（如果我没记错的话）更加古老，长期的实践帮助我们发现了许多生活便利，并且一些幸运的机会为我们发现了其他人无法发现的东西。 “至于他们的政府或我们的政府的古代，”他说，“除非你读过他们的历史，否则你无法对它做出正确的判断；因为你必须读过他们的历史。”因为，如果他们可信的话，在这些地区还没有有人居住之前，他们就已经在他们中间建立了城镇。至于那些偶然发现或由聪明人做出的发现，这些发现可能在那里也发生过。我不否认，我们比他们更聪明，但他们在工业和应用上比我们多得多。在我们来到他们中间之前，他们对我们知之甚少。他们用“位于春分线以外的国家”这个通用名称来称呼我们所有人；因为他们的编年史提到了一千二百年前在他们的海岸发生的一次沉船事故，船上的一些罗马人和埃及人，安全上岸，与他们一起度过余生；他们的聪明才智如此之大，以至于他们利用这个机会向那些不速之客学习，并获得了当时罗马人中所有有用的艺术，这些艺术是这些遭遇海难的人所知道的。通过他们给他们的暗示，他们自己甚至发现了一些他们无法完全解释的艺术，他们很高兴地改善了我们的一些人被扔到他们的海岸上的事故。 但是，如果这样的事故在任何时候将任何东西从那里带入欧洲，我们还远远没有改善它，以至于我们根本不记得它，因为也许在以后，我们的人民会忘记我是曾经在那里；因为尽管他们因一次这样的意外而成为我们之中所有优秀发明的主人，但我相信，我们还需要很长时间才能学习或实践他们之中的任何优秀制度。这就是他们比我们治理得更好、生活得更幸福的真正原因，尽管我们在理解力和外在优势方面并不比他们差。”对此，我对他说：“我恳求你详细描述一下那个岛。特别是对我们来说；不要太短，而是按顺序列出与他们的土地、他们的河流、他们的城镇、他们的人民、他们的礼仪、宪法、法律以及总之，所有你想象中我们想知道的一切有关的事情；你完全可以想象，我们渴望了解有关他们的一切，而我们迄今为止对此一无所知。” “那么我们走吧，”我说，“先吃顿饭，然后我们就有足够的闲暇了。”他同意了。我们进去吃饭，吃完饭回来又在同一个地方坐下。我命令我的仆人小心，不要有人来打扰我们，彼得和我都希望拉斐尔言出必行。 当他看到我们非常热衷于此事时，他停了下来，回想了一下自己，然后开始这样说：

‘The island of Utopia is in the middle two hundred miles broad, and holds almost at the same breadth over a great part of it, but it grows narrower towards both ends. Its figure is not unlike a crescent. Between its horns the sea comes in eleven miles broad, and spreads itself into a great bay, which is environed with land to the compass of about five hundred miles, and is well secured from winds. In this bay there is no great current; the whole coast is, as it were, one continued harbour, which gives all that live in the island great convenience for mutual commerce. But the entry into the bay, occasioned by rocks on the one hand and shallows on the other, is very dangerous. In the middle of it there is one single rock which appears above water, and may, therefore, easily be avoided; and on the top of it there is a tower, in which a garrison is kept; the other rocks lie under water, and are very dangerous. The channel is known only to the natives; so that if any stranger should enter into the bay without one of their pilots he would run great danger of shipwreck. For even they themselves could not pass it safe if some marks that are on the coast did not direct their way; and if these should be but a little shifted, any fleet that might come against them, how great soever it were, would be certainly lost. On the other side of the island there are likewise many harbours; and the coast is so fortified, both by nature and art, that a small number of men can hinder the descent of a great army. But they report (and there remains good marks of it to make it credible) that this was no island at first, but a part of the continent. Utopus, that conquered it (whose name it still carries, for Abraxa was its first name), brought the rude and uncivilised inhabitants into such a good government, and to that measure of politeness, that they now far excel all the rest of mankind. Having soon subdued them, he designed to separate them from the continent, and to bring the sea quite round them. To accomplish this he ordered a deep channel to be dug, fifteen miles long; and that the natives might not think he treated them like slaves, he not only forced the inhabitants, but also his own soldiers, to labour in carrying it on. As he set a vast number of men to work, he, beyond all men’s expectations, brought it to a speedy conclusion. And his neighbours, who at first laughed at the folly of the undertaking, no sooner saw it brought to perfection than they were struck with admiration and terror.
“乌托邦岛中部有两百英里宽，大部分地区的宽度几乎相同，但向两端逐渐变窄。它的形状与新月没有什么不同。在它的两角之间，大海宽十一英里，蔓延成一个大海湾，周围环绕着大约五百英里的陆地，并且不受风的影响。这个海湾里没有大水流；整个海岸可以说是一个连续的港口，为岛上居民的相互贸易提供了极大的便利。但进入海湾时，一方面是岩石，另一方面是浅滩，非常危险。在它的中间有一块露出水面的岩石，因此可以很容易地避开。其顶有一座楼，内有驻军。其他岩石都在水下，非常危险。该海峡只有当地人知道；因此，如果任何陌生人在没有领航员的情况下进入海湾，他将面临沉船的巨大危险。因为如果海岸上的一些标记没有指引他们的方向，即使他们自己也无法安全通过。如果这些舰队稍微移动一点，任何可能与他们对抗的舰队，无论多么强大，都肯定会失败。岛的另一边同样有许多港口。海岸的防御工事无论是自然还是艺术都如此坚固，以至于少数人就可以阻止一支大军的下降。但他们报告说（并且仍然有良好的标记使其可信），这最初并不是岛屿，而是大陆的一部分。 征服了它的乌托普斯（它的名字至今仍然存在，因为阿布拉克萨是它的名字），将粗鲁和不文明的居民带入了一个良好的政府，并达到了礼貌的程度，以至于他们现在远远超过了所有其他人类。很快就征服了他们，他计划将他们与大陆分开，并让海洋将他们完全包围。为了实现这一目标，他下令挖一条十五英里长的深沟。为了让当地人不会认为他像对待奴隶一样对待他们，他不仅强迫居民，而且还强迫他自己的士兵，继续劳作。当他安排大量人员去工作时，出乎所有人意料的是，他很快就完成了任务。他的邻居们起初嘲笑这项事业的愚蠢，但当看到它变得完美时，他们立即感到钦佩和恐惧。

‘There are fifty-four cities in the island, all large and well built, the manners, customs, and laws of which are the same, and they are all contrived as near in the same manner as the ground on which they stand will allow. The nearest lie at least twenty-four miles’ distance from one another, and the most remote are not so far distant but that a man can go on foot in one day from it to that which lies next it. Every city sends three of their wisest senators once a year to Amaurot, to consult about their common concerns; for that is the chief town of the island, being situated near the centre of it, so that it is the most convenient place for their assemblies. The jurisdiction of every city extends at least twenty miles, and, where the towns lie wider, they have much more ground. No town desires to enlarge its bounds, for the people consider themselves rather as tenants than landlords. They have built, over all the country, farmhouses for husbandmen, which are well contrived, and furnished with all things necessary for country labour. Inhabitants are sent, by turns, from the cities to dwell in them; no country family has fewer than forty men and women in it, besides two slaves. There is a master and a mistress set over every family, and over thirty families there is a magistrate. Every year twenty of this family come back to the town after they have stayed two years in the country, and in their room there are other twenty sent from the town, that they may learn country work from those that have been already one year in the country, as they must teach those that come to them the next from the town. By this means such as dwell in those country farms are never ignorant of agriculture, and so commit no errors which might otherwise be fatal and bring them under a scarcity of corn. But though there is every year such a shifting of the husbandmen to prevent any man being forced against his will to follow that hard course of life too long, yet many among them take such pleasure in it that they desire leave to continue in it many years. These husbandmen till the ground, breed cattle, hew wood, and convey it to the towns either by land or water, as is most convenient. They breed an infinite multitude of chickens in a very curious manner; for the hens do not sit and hatch them, but a vast number of eggs are laid in a gentle and equal heat in order to be hatched, and they are no sooner out of the shell, and able to stir about, but they seem to consider those that feed them as their mothers, and follow them as other chickens do the hen that hatched them. They breed very few horses, but those they have are full of mettle, and are kept only for exercising their youth in the art of sitting and riding them; for they do not put them to any work, either of ploughing or carriage, in which they employ oxen. For though their horses are stronger, yet they find oxen can hold out longer; and as they are not subject to so many diseases, so they are kept upon a less charge and with less trouble. And even when they are so worn out that they are no more fit for labour, they are good meat at last. They sow no corn but that which is to be their bread; for they drink either wine, cider or perry, and often water, sometimes boiled with honey or liquorice, with which they abound; and though they know exactly how much corn will serve every town and all that tract of country which belongs to it, yet they sow much more and breed more cattle than are necessary for their consumption, and they give that overplus of which they make no use to their neighbours. When they want anything in the country which it does not produce, they fetch that from the town, without carrying anything in exchange for it. And the magistrates of the town take care to see it given them; for they meet generally in the town once a month, upon a festival day. When the time of harvest comes, the magistrates in the country send to those in the towns and let them know how many hands they will need for reaping the harvest; and the number they call for being sent to them, they commonly despatch it all in one day.
岛上有五十四个城市，都很大，建筑精良，风俗习惯和法律都是一样的，而且它们的设计方式都与它们所处的地面允许的程度相同。 。最近的地方彼此之间至少有二十四英里的距离，而最远的地方也没有那么远，但一个人可以在一天之内步行从它到邻近的地方。每个城市每年都会派遣三位最明智的参议员前往阿毛罗特，就他们共同关心的问题进行磋商；因为那是岛上的主要城镇，位于岛的中心附近，因此是他们集会的最方便的地方。每个城市的管辖范围至少延伸二十英里，城镇越宽，它们的土地就越多。没有一个城镇愿意扩大其范围，因为人们认为自己是佃农而不是地主。他们在全国各地为农民建造了农舍，这些农舍设计精良，配备了乡村劳动所需的一切设施。居民轮流从城市被派往城市居住。没有一个乡村家庭的男女人数少于四十人，除了两名奴隶之外。家家有主、主母，三十余户有知县。这个家庭每年都有二十个人在乡下呆了两年后回到城里，他们的房间里还有另外二十个从城里派来的，他们可以向那些已经在乡下呆了一年的人学习乡村工作。国家，因为他们必须教导那些下一个从城镇来到他们这里的人。 通过这种方式，那些居住在乡村农场的人永远不会对农业一无所知，因此不会犯下可能致命的错误，使他们陷入玉米短缺的境地。但是，尽管每年农夫们都会进行这样的轮换，以防止任何人被迫违背自己的意愿，过长时间地过这种艰苦的生活，但他们中的许多人却从中获得了如此大的乐趣，以至于他们希望离开，继续这样生活很多年。 。这些农夫耕地、饲养牲畜、砍伐木材，然后通过陆路或水路将其运送到城镇，这是最方便的。他们以一种非常奇怪的方式饲养了无数的鸡。因为母鸡不会坐下来孵化它们，而是在温和且均匀的温度下产下大量的鸡蛋，以便孵化，它们很快就从壳中出来，能够搅动，但它们似乎将那些喂养它们的人视为它们的母亲，并像其他鸡追随孵化它们的母鸡一样追随它们。他们饲养的马很少，但他们拥有的马都充满勇气，饲养它们只是为了锻炼他们年轻时的坐骑艺术。因为他们不让牛从事任何需要牛耕作或运输的工作。因为虽然他们的马更强壮，但他们发现牛可以坚持更长的时间；由于他们不易罹患如此多的疾病，因此他们的负担较少，麻烦也较少。即使它们已经疲惫不堪，不再适合劳动，它们最终还是好肉。 他们只种粮食，只种谷物。因为他们喝葡萄酒、苹果酒或梨酒，经常喝水，有时加蜂蜜或甘草煮沸，他们经常喝水。尽管他们确切地知道每个城镇和所有属于该城镇的乡村有多少玉米，但他们播种的粮食和饲养的牲畜都超出了他们消费的需要，而且他们把多余的粮食给了他们，而他们并没有利用这些粮食。给他们的邻居。当他们想要乡村里不生产的东西时，他们会从城里取来，而不用携带任何东西来交换。镇上的行政长官们小心翼翼地把它交给了他们。因为他们通常每月一次在节日期间在城里聚会。当收获的季节到来时，乡村的官员会派人到城镇里，让他们知道收割庄稼需要多少人手；他们要求发送给他们的号码，他们通常会在一天之内全部发送出去。

OF THEIR TOWNS, PARTICULARLY OF AMAUROT
他们的城镇，特别是阿莫罗特

‘He that knows one of their towns knows them all—they are so like one another, except where the situation makes some difference. I shall therefore describe one of them, and none is so proper as Amaurot; for as none is more eminent (all the rest yielding in precedence to this, because it is the seat of their supreme council), so there was none of them better known to me, I having lived five years all together in it.
“了解其中一个城镇的人就了解所有城镇——它们彼此非常相似，除了情况有所不同之外。因此，我将描述其中的一个，没有一个比阿莫罗特更合适。因为没有人比这更杰出（所有其他人都优先于此，因为这是他们最高委员会的所在地），所以我对他们中的人也没有比这更熟悉的了，因为我在这里一起生活了五年。

‘It lies upon the side of a hill, or, rather, a rising ground. Its figure is almost square, for from the one side of it, which shoots up almost to the top of the hill, it runs down, in a descent for two miles, to the river Anider; but it is a little broader the other way that runs along by the bank of that river. The Anider rises about eighty miles above Amaurot, in a small spring at first. But other brooks falling into it, of which two are more considerable than the rest, as it runs by Amaurot it is grown half a mile broad; but, it still grows larger and larger, till, after sixty miles’ course below it, it is lost in the ocean. Between the town and the sea, and for some miles above the town, it ebbs and flows every six hours with a strong current. The tide comes up about thirty miles so full that there is nothing but salt water in the river, the fresh water being driven back with its force; and above that, for some miles, the water is brackish; but a little higher, as it runs by the town, it is quite fresh; and when the tide ebbs, it continues fresh all along to the sea. There is a bridge cast over the river, not of timber, but of fair stone, consisting of many stately arches; it lies at that part of the town which is farthest from the sea, so that the ships, without any hindrance, lie all along the side of the town. There is, likewise, another river that runs by it, which, though it is not great, yet it runs pleasantly, for it rises out of the same hill on which the town stands, and so runs down through it and falls into the Anider. The inhabitants have fortified the fountain-head of this river, which springs a little without the towns; that so, if they should happen to be besieged, the enemy might not be able to stop or divert the course of the water, nor poison it; from thence it is carried, in earthen pipes, to the lower streets. And for those places of the town to which the water of that small river cannot be conveyed, they have great cisterns for receiving the rain-water, which supplies the want of the other. The town is compassed with a high and thick wall, in which there are many towers and forts; there is also a broad and deep dry ditch, set thick with thorns, cast round three sides of the town, and the river is instead of a ditch on the fourth side. The streets are very convenient for all carriage, and are well sheltered from the winds. Their buildings are good, and are so uniform that a whole side of a street looks like one house. The streets are twenty feet broad; there lie gardens behind all their houses. These are large, but enclosed with buildings, that on all hands face the streets, so that every house has both a door to the street and a back door to the garden. Their doors have all two leaves, which, as they are easily opened, so they shut of their own accord; and, there being no property among them, every man may freely enter into any house whatsoever. At every ten years’ end they shift their houses by lots. They cultivate their gardens with great care, so that they have both vines, fruits, herbs, and flowers in them; and all is so well ordered and so finely kept that I never saw gardens anywhere that were both so fruitful and so beautiful as theirs. And this humour of ordering their gardens so well is not only kept up by the pleasure they find in it, but also by an emulation between the inhabitants of the several streets, who vie with each other. And there is, indeed, nothing belonging to the whole town that is both more useful and more pleasant. So that he who founded the town seems to have taken care of nothing more than of their gardens; for they say the whole scheme of the town was designed at first by Utopus, but he left all that belonged to the ornament and improvement of it to be added by those that should come after him, that being too much for one man to bring to perfection. Their records, that contain the history of their town and State, are preserved with an exact care, and run backwards seventeen hundred and sixty years. From these it appears that their houses were at first low and mean, like cottages, made of any sort of timber, and were built with mud walls and thatched with straw. But now their houses are three storeys high, the fronts of them are faced either with stone, plastering, or brick, and between the facings of their walls they throw in their rubbish. Their roofs are flat, and on them they lay a sort of plaster, which costs very little, and yet is so tempered that it is not apt to take fire, and yet resists the weather more than lead. They have great quantities of glass among them, with which they glaze their windows; they use also in their windows a thin linen cloth, that is so oiled or gummed that it both keeps out the wind and gives free admission to the light.
“它位于一座小山的一侧，或者更确切地说，位于一块上升的地面上。它的形状几乎是方形的，因为从它的一侧，它几乎直达山顶，它向下延伸两英里，到达安尼德河；它的形状几乎是正方形的。但沿着那条河岸的另一条路要宽一些。安尼德河 (Anider) 最初在一个小泉水中升起，高于阿莫罗特 (Amaurot) 约八十英里。但还有其他小溪流入其中，其中有两条比其他小溪更大，因为它流过阿莫罗特，所以宽有半英里；但是，它仍然变得越来越大，直到在其下方六十英里的航程后，它消失在海洋中。在城镇和大海之间，以及城镇上方几英里的地方，每六个小时就会有一股强劲的水流潮起潮落。潮水涨到了大约三十英里，河里只剩下咸水，淡水被它的力量驱赶回去。在此之上，方圆几英里的水域都是微咸的。但稍微高一点，因为它经过城镇，所以很新鲜。当潮水退去时，它仍然新鲜地一直流向大海。河上有一座桥，桥不是木头的，而是白皙的石头，有许多庄严的拱门。它位于城镇中离海最远的地方，因此船只可以毫无阻碍地停泊在城镇的两侧。同样，还有另一条河流流过它，虽然它并不大，但它的流淌令人愉快，因为它发源于城镇所在的同一座山，因此流过它并注入安尼德河。 居民们在这条河的源头筑起了防御工事，这条河的水流在远离城镇的地方有一点点流淌。因此，如果他们碰巧被围困，敌人可能无法阻止或改变水流，也无法毒害水；从那里，它通过土管被输送到较低的街道。对于镇上那些无法将小河的水输送到的地方，他们有很大的蓄水池来接收雨水，以满足其他地方的需要。城内有高而厚的城墙，城内有许多塔楼和堡垒。还有一条又宽又深的干沟，布满荆棘，围绕着城镇的三边，第四边是河，而不是一条沟。街道对所有车辆来说都很方便，而且避风性好。他们的建筑很好，而且很统一，一整条街看起来就像一栋房子。街道有二十英尺宽；他们所有的房子后面都有花园。这些建筑很大，但周围都是建筑物，所有建筑物都面朝街道，因此每栋房屋都有一扇通向街道的门和一扇通向花园的后门。他们的门都有两扇门，因为它们很容易打开，所以它们会自动关闭。而且，他们中间没有财产，每个人都可以自由进入任何房屋。每十年结束，他们就会批量搬迁房屋。他们精心耕耘自己的花园，让花园里长满了藤蔓、水果、香草和鲜花。一切都秩序井然，保存得如此完好，我从来没有在任何地方见过像他们的花园一样硕果累累、如此美丽的花园。 这种将花园布置得如此出色的幽默感不仅源于他们在花园中找到的乐趣，还源于几条街道上相互竞争的居民之间的竞争。事实上，整个城镇没有什么比这更有用、更令人愉快的了。因此，这座城镇的建立者似乎只关心他们的花园。因为他们说，这座城镇的整个计划最初是由乌托普斯设计的，但他留下了所有属于装饰和改进的东西，由他之后的人来添加，这对一个人来说太多了，无法完成。完美。他们的记录包含了他们的城镇和州的历史，被精心保存，可以追溯到一千七百六十年前。从这些看来，他们的房屋起初低矮简陋，就像小屋一样，用各种木材建造，墙壁是泥墙，茅草盖的是稻草。但现在他们的房子有三层高，正面不是用石头、灰泥或砖砌成的，他们在墙板之间扔垃圾。他们的屋顶是平的，上面铺着一种灰泥，这种灰泥成本很低，但经过淬火，不易着火，而且比铅更能抵抗天气影响。他们有大量的玻璃，用来给窗户上釉。他们还在窗户上使用薄薄的亚麻布，这种布经过涂油或涂胶，既可以挡风又可以让光线自由进入。

OF THEIR MAGISTRATES
他们的治安官

‘Thirty families choose every year a magistrate, who was anciently called the Syphogrant, but is now called the Philarch; and over every ten Syphogrants, with the families subject to them, there is another magistrate, who was anciently called the Tranibore, but of late the Archphilarch. All the Syphogrants, who are in number two hundred, choose the Prince out of a list of four who are named by the people of the four divisions of the city; but they take an oath, before they proceed to an election, that they will choose him whom they think most fit for the office: they give him their voices secretly, so that it is not known for whom every one gives his suffrage. The Prince is for life, unless he is removed upon suspicion of some design to enslave the people. The Tranibors are new chosen every year, but yet they are, for the most part, continued; all their other magistrates are only annual. The Tranibors meet every third day, and oftener if necessary, and consult with the Prince either concerning the affairs of the State in general, or such private differences as may arise sometimes among the people, though that falls out but seldom. There are always two Syphogrants called into the council chamber, and these are changed every day. It is a fundamental rule of their government, that no conclusion can be made in anything that relates to the public till it has been first debated three several days in their council. It is death for any to meet and consult concerning the State, unless it be either in their ordinary council, or in the assembly of the whole body of the people.
‘每年有三十个家庭选出一名地方法官，古代称为“Syphogrant”，现在称为“Philarch”；每十名西弗格兰特（Syphogrants）以及受其管辖的家庭中，还有另一位治安法官，古称特拉尼博尔（Tranibore），但近来被称为大主教（Archphilarch）。所有 200 名赛弗格兰特人从该城四个分区的人民提名的四人名单中选出王子；但他们在进行选举之前宣誓，他们将选择他们认为最适合担任该职位的人：他们秘密地向他表达自己的意见，因此不知道每个人都为谁提供了选举权。王子是终身的，除非他因涉嫌奴役人民而被罢免。特拉尼博尔家族每年都会有新的选择，但大多数情况下他们都会继续存在。他们所有其他治安法官都只是年度法官。特拉尼博尔家族每三天开会一次，必要时会更频繁，与王子协商一般国家事务，或人民之间有时可能出现的私人分歧，尽管这种情况很少发生。总会有两名赛弗格兰特被叫进议事厅，而且每天都会更换。他们政府的一条基本规则是，任何与公众有关的事情都必须在议会经过三天的辩论后才能得出结论。任何人就国家问题进行集会和协商都是死亡，除非是在他们的普通议会中，或者是在全体人民的议会中。

‘These things have been so provided among them that the Prince and the Tranibors may not conspire together to change the government and enslave the people; and therefore when anything of great importance is set on foot, it is sent to the Syphogrants, who, after they have communicated it to the families that belong to their divisions, and have considered it among themselves, make report to the senate; and, upon great occasions, the matter is referred to the council of the whole island. One rule observed in their council is, never to debate a thing on the same day in which it is first proposed; for that is always referred to the next meeting, that so men may not rashly and in the heat of discourse engage themselves too soon, which might bias them so much that, instead of consulting the good of the public, they might rather study to support their first opinions, and by a perverse and preposterous sort of shame hazard their country rather than endanger their own reputation, or venture the being suspected to have wanted foresight in the expedients that they at first proposed; and therefore, to prevent this, they take care that they may rather be deliberate than sudden in their motions.
“这些东西在他们中间是这样规定的，以便王子和特拉尼博尔人不能合谋改变政府并奴役人民；因此，当任何重大事件发生时，都会被发送给Syphogrants，Syphogrants将其传达给属于其部门的家庭，并在他们之间进行考虑后，向元老院报告；在重大场合，此事会被提交给全岛议会。在他们的理事会中遵守的一条规则是，永远不要在第一次提出某件事的同一天对其进行辩论；因为这总是提到下一次会议，这样人们就不会鲁莽地在激烈的讨论中过早地参与进来，这可能会使他们产生很大的偏见，以至于他们宁愿研究支持公众的利益，而不是咨询公众的利益。他们的第一意见，并通过一种反常和荒谬的耻辱危害他们的国家，而不是危及他们自己的声誉，或者冒着被怀疑在他们最初提出的权宜之计中缺乏先见之明的风险；因此，为了防止这种情况发生，他们会注意自己的行动应该是深思熟虑的，而不是突然的。

OF THEIR TRADES, AND MANNER OF LIFE
他们的行业和生活方式

‘Agriculture is that which is so universally understood among them that no person, either man or woman, is ignorant of it; they are instructed in it from their childhood, partly by what they learn at school, and partly by practice, they being led out often into the fields about the town, where they not only see others at work but are likewise exercised in it themselves. Besides agriculture, which is so common to them all, every man has some peculiar trade to which he applies himself; such as the manufacture of wool or flax, masonry, smith’s work, or carpenter’s work; for there is no sort of trade that is in great esteem among them. Throughout the island they wear the same sort of clothes, without any other distinction except what is necessary to distinguish the two sexes and the married and unmarried. The fashion never alters, and as it is neither disagreeable nor uneasy, so it is suited to the climate, and calculated both for their summers and winters. Every family makes their own clothes; but all among them, women as well as men, learn one or other of the trades formerly mentioned. Women, for the most part, deal in wool and flax, which suit best with their weakness, leaving the ruder trades to the men. The same trade generally passes down from father to son, inclinations often following descent: but if any man’s genius lies another way he is, by adoption, translated into a family that deals in the trade to which he is inclined; and when that is to be done, care is taken, not only by his father, but by the magistrate, that he may be put to a discreet and good man: and if, after a person has learned one trade, he desires to acquire another, that is also allowed, and is managed in the same manner as the former. When he has learned both, he follows that which he likes best, unless the public has more occasion for the other.
“农业是他们普遍理解的东西，没有人，无论男人还是女人，对它一无所知；他们从童年起就接受了这方面的教育，部分是通过在学校学到的知识，部分是通过实践，他们经常被带到城镇周围的田野里，在那里他们不仅看到别人在工作，而且自己也在那里得到锻炼。除了对所有人来说都很常见的农业之外，每个人都有一些自己从事的特殊行业。例如羊毛或亚麻的制造、砖石、铁匠工作或木匠工作；因为没有一种贸易在他们中间受到高度重视。在全岛，他们都穿着同样的衣服，除了区分两性和已婚与未婚的必要服装外，没有任何其他区别。时尚永远不会改变，因为它既不令人讨厌也不令人不安，所以它适合气候，并且适合夏季和冬季。每个家庭都自己做衣服；但他们中的所有人，无论是女人还是男人，都学习前面提到的一种或另一种职业。大多数情况下，女性从事羊毛和亚麻贸易，这最适合她们的弱点，而将更粗鲁的交易留给了男性。同一行业通常由父亲传给儿子，倾向往往随血统而变化：但如果一个人的天才以另一种方式存在，那么他就会通过收养而进入一个从事他所倾向的行业的家庭；当这样做时，不仅由他的父亲而且由地方法官负责，以便将他交给一个谨慎而善良的人：如果一个人在学会了一门手艺之后，他希望获得一门手艺。另一种也是允许的，管理方式与前者相同。 当他学会了两者后，他就会选择他最喜欢的，除非公众有更多机会选择另一个。

The chief, and almost the only, business of the Syphogrants is to take care that no man may live idle, but that every one may follow his trade diligently; yet they do not wear themselves out with perpetual toil from morning to night, as if they were beasts of burden, which as it is indeed a heavy slavery, so it is everywhere the common course of life amongst all mechanics except the Utopians: but they, dividing the day and night into twenty-four hours, appoint six of these for work, three of which are before dinner and three after; they then sup, and at eight o’clock, counting from noon, go to bed and sleep eight hours: the rest of their time, besides that taken up in work, eating, and sleeping, is left to every man’s discretion; yet they are not to abuse that interval to luxury and idleness, but must employ it in some proper exercise, according to their various inclinations, which is, for the most part, reading. It is ordinary to have public lectures every morning before daybreak, at which none are obliged to appear but those who are marked out for literature; yet a great many, both men and women, of all ranks, go to hear lectures of one sort or other, according to their inclinations: but if others that are not made for contemplation, choose rather to employ themselves at that time in their trades, as many of them do, they are not hindered, but are rather commended, as men that take care to serve their country. After supper they spend an hour in some diversion, in summer in their gardens, and in winter in the halls where they eat, where they entertain each other either with music or discourse. They do not so much as know dice, or any such foolish and mischievous games. They have, however, two sorts of games not unlike our chess; the one is between several numbers, in which one number, as it were, consumes another; the other resembles a battle between the virtues and the vices, in which the enmity in the vices among themselves, and their agreement against virtue, is not unpleasantly represented; together with the special opposition between the particular virtues and vices; as also the methods by which vice either openly assaults or secretly undermines virtue; and virtue, on the other hand, resists it. But the time appointed for labour is to be narrowly examined, otherwise you may imagine that since there are only six hours appointed for work, they may fall under a scarcity of necessary provisions: but it is so far from being true that this time is not sufficient for supplying them with plenty of all things, either necessary or convenient, that it is rather too much; and this you will easily apprehend if you consider how great a part of all other nations is quite idle. First, women generally do little, who are the half of mankind; and if some few women are diligent, their husbands are idle: then consider the great company of idle priests, and of those that are called religious men; add to these all rich men, chiefly those that have estates in land, who are called noblemen and gentlemen, together with their families, made up of idle persons, that are kept more for show than use; add to these all those strong and lusty beggars that go about pretending some disease in excuse for their begging; and upon the whole account you will find that the number of those by whose labours mankind is supplied is much less than you perhaps imagined: then consider how few of those that work are employed in labours that are of real service, for we, who measure all things by money, give rise to many trades that are both vain and superfluous, and serve only to support riot and luxury: for if those who work were employed only in such things as the conveniences of life require, there would be such an abundance of them that the prices of them would so sink that tradesmen could not be maintained by their gains; if all those who labour about useless things were set to more profitable employments, and if all they that languish out their lives in sloth and idleness (every one of whom consumes as much as any two of the men that are at work) were forced to labour, you may easily imagine that a small proportion of time would serve for doing all that is either necessary, profitable, or pleasant to mankind, especially while pleasure is kept within its due bounds: this appears very plainly in Utopia; for there, in a great city, and in all the territory that lies round it, you can scarce find five hundred, either men or women, by their age and strength capable of labour, that are not engaged in it. Even the Syphogrants, though excused by the law, yet do not excuse themselves, but work, that by their examples they may excite the industry of the rest of the people; the like exemption is allowed to those who, being recommended to the people by the priests, are, by the secret suffrages of the Syphogrants, privileged from labour, that they may apply themselves wholly to study; and if any of these fall short of those hopes that they seemed at first to give, they are obliged to return to work; and sometimes a mechanic that so employs his leisure hours as to make a considerable advancement in learning is eased from being a tradesman and ranked among their learned men. Out of these they choose their ambassadors, their priests, their Tranibors, and the Prince himself, anciently called their Barzenes, but is called of late their Ademus.
赛弗格兰特人的首要任务，也是几乎唯一的任务，就是确保每个人都不能无所事事，但每个人都可以勤奋地从事自己的工作；然而，他们并没有因为从早到晚的永久劳作而疲惫不堪，就好像他们是负重的野兽一样，这确实是一种沉重的奴役，所以除了乌托邦主义者之外，这在所有机械师中都是普遍的生活方式：但是他们将白天和黑夜分为二十四小时，指定其中六个小时工作，其中三个在晚餐前，三个在晚餐后；然后他们吃晚饭，八点钟（从中午算起）上床睡觉，睡八个小时：除了工作、吃饭和睡觉之外，其余的时间由每个人自行决定。然而，他们不应该滥用这段时间来奢侈和无所事事，而必须根据自己的不同爱好，利用这段时间进行一些适当的锻炼，其中大部分是阅读。每天早上天亮之前举行公开讲座是很平常的事，除了那些被指定为文学专业的人之外，没有人必须出席。然而，许多人，无论男女，无论阶层如何，都会根据自己的喜好去听一种或另一种讲座：但如果其他人不适合沉思，那么他们宁愿选择在那时从事自己的行业正如他们中的许多人所做的那样，他们没有受到阻碍，反而受到赞扬，因为他们是认真为国家服务的人。晚饭后，他们会花一个小时进行消遣，夏天在花园里，冬天在吃饭的大厅里，用音乐或谈话互相娱乐。他们根本不知道骰子或任何此类愚蠢而恶作剧的游戏。 然而，他们有两种游戏，就像我们的国际象棋一样：一个是在几个数字之间，其中一个数字可以说是消耗另一个数字；另一个则类似于美德与恶行之间的一场战斗，其中恶行之间的敌意以及他们对美德的一致，并没有令人不快地表现出来。以及特定的美德和恶习之间的特殊对立；以及恶行公开攻击或暗中破坏美德的方法；另一方面，美德则抵制它。但指定的劳动时间要仔细审查，否则你可能会认为，由于指定的工作时间只有六个小时，他们可能会缺乏必要的规定：但事实远非如此，这个时间不是足以为他们提供充足的一切东西，无论是必需的还是方便的，这是太多了；如果你考虑一下所有其他国家中有多少人是闲着的，你就会很容易理解这一点。首先，女性一般做得很少，她们是人类的一半；如果少数妇女很勤奋，她们的丈夫就很懒惰：那么请考虑一下大批无所事事的牧师和那些所谓的宗教人士；除此之外，还有所有富人，主要是那些拥有土地的人，他们被称为贵族和绅士，还有他们的家人，都是由游手好闲的人组成的，他们保留这些财产更多的是为了炫耀，而不是为了使用。除此之外，还有那些身体强壮、精力充沛的乞丐，他们假装生病，以乞讨为借口；从整体上看，你会发现，通过劳动为人类提供食物的人的数量比你想象的要少得多：然后考虑一下，在那些工作的人中，从事真正服务劳动的人是多么少，因为我们这些衡量标准的人一切都靠金钱，产生了许多徒劳和多余的行业，只会助长暴乱和奢侈：因为如果那些工作的人只从事生活便利所需的事情，就会有如此丰富的东西它们的价格会大幅下​​跌，以致商人无法靠他们的收益维持生计；如果所有那些为无用之事而劳作的人都被安排去从事更有利可图的工作，如果所有那些在懒惰和无所事事中度过一生的人（其中每个人的消耗与任何两个正在工作的人的消耗一样多）都被迫劳动，你可能很容易想象一小部分时间可以用来做所有对人类来说必要的、有利可图的或令人愉快的事情，特别是当快乐保持在其应有的范围之内时：这在乌托邦中表现得非常明显；因为在那里，在一座大城市及其周围的所有领土上，你几乎找不到五百名男性或女性，按他们的年龄和体力来说，有能力从事劳动。，不参与其中。即使是赛弗格兰特派，虽然得到了法律的宽恕，但他们并没有为自己找借口，而是努力工作，以便通过他们的榜样激发其他人民的勤奋。同样的豁免也适用于那些由神父向人民推荐的人，经西弗格兰特秘密选举，享有免于劳动的特权，以便他们可以全身心投入学习。如果其中任何一个未能达到他们最初似乎给予的希望，他们就必须重返工作岗位。有时，一个机械师利用闲暇时间在学习上取得了相当大的进步，从而摆脱了商人的地位，并跻身于有学问的人之列。他们从这些人中选出他们的大使、他们的牧师、他们的特拉尼博尔和王子本人，古代被称为他们的巴泽内斯，但最近被称为他们的阿德穆斯。

‘And thus from the great numbers among them that are neither suffered to be idle nor to be employed in any fruitless labour, you may easily make the estimate how much may be done in those few hours in which they are obliged to labour. But, besides all that has been already said, it is to be considered that the needful arts among them are managed with less labour than anywhere else. The building or the repairing of houses among us employ many hands, because often a thriftless heir suffers a house that his father built to fall into decay, so that his successor must, at a great cost, repair that which he might have kept up with a small charge; it frequently happens that the same house which one person built at a vast expense is neglected by another, who thinks he has a more delicate sense of the beauties of architecture, and he, suffering it to fall to ruin, builds another at no less charge. But among the Utopians all things are so regulated that men very seldom build upon a new piece of ground, and are not only very quick in repairing their houses, but show their foresight in preventing their decay, so that their buildings are preserved very long with but very little labour, and thus the builders, to whom that care belongs, are often without employment, except the hewing of timber and the squaring of stones, that the materials may be in readiness for raising a building very suddenly when there is any occasion for it. As to their clothes, observe how little work is spent in them; while they are at labour they are clothed with leather and skins, cut carelessly about them, which will last seven years, and when they appear in public they put on an upper garment which hides the other; and these are all of one colour, and that is the natural colour of the wool. As they need less woollen cloth than is used anywhere else, so that which they make use of is much less costly; they use linen cloth more, but that is prepared with less labour, and they value cloth only by the whiteness of the linen or the cleanness of the wool, without much regard to the fineness of the thread. While in other places four or five upper garments of woollen cloth of different colours, and as many vests of silk, will scarce serve one man, and while those that are nicer think ten too few, every man there is content with one, which very often serves him two years; nor is there anything that can tempt a man to desire more, for if he had them he would neither be the, warmer nor would he make one jot the better appearance for it. And thus, since they are all employed in some useful labour, and since they content themselves with fewer things, it falls out that there is a great abundance of all things among them; so that it frequently happens that, for want of other work, vast numbers are sent out to mend the highways; but when no public undertaking is to be performed, the hours of working are lessened. The magistrates never engage the people in unnecessary labour, since the chief end of the constitution is to regulate labour by the necessities of the public, and to allow the people as much time as is necessary for the improvement of their minds, in which they think the happiness of life consists.
“因此，从他们中既没有被闲置也没有被从事任何徒劳的劳动的人数来看，你可以很容易地估计出在他们被迫劳动的那几个小时内可以完成多少工作。但是，除了已经说过的所有内容之外，还应该考虑到，其中所需的艺术比其他任何地方都需要更少的劳动力来管理。我们当中建造或修缮房屋需要很多人，因为一个不节俭的继承人经常会导致他父亲建造的房屋破败，因此他的继承人必须花费巨大的成本来修缮他本来可以跟上的房屋。少量费用；经常发生这样的情况：一个人花费巨资建造的同一栋房子被另一个人忽视了，这个人认为他对建筑之美有更敏锐的感觉，而他在忍受它倒塌的情况下，又以同样的费用建造了另一所房子。但在乌托邦主义者中，一切事物都是如此有规律地进行，人们很少在新的土地上建造房屋，而且不仅很快地修缮房屋，而且在防止房屋腐烂方面表现出远见，因此他们的建筑物能够保存很长时间。但劳动力很少，因此负责照管的建筑商常常没有工作，除了砍伐木材和修整石头，以便在有任何情况时可以立即准备好建造建筑物的材料为了它。至于他们的衣服，你会发现他们在衣服上花费的工夫是多么少。当她们分娩时，她们穿着粗心剪裁的皮革和兽皮衣服，可以穿七年；当她们出现在公共场合时，她们会穿上一件上衣，将另一件衣服遮住。这些都是一种颜色，那就是羊毛的自然颜色。 由于他们需要的羊毛布料比其他地方少，所以他们使用的羊毛布料的成本要低得多；他们多用麻布，但制作的工夫较少，只看布的白度或羊毛的洁净度，而不太关心线的细度。而在其他地方，四五件不同颜色的呢子上衣，以及那么多的丝绸背心，一个人穿不了，而那些好一点的人认为十件太少了，但那里的每个人都满足了一件，这非常重要。经常为他服务两年；也没有什么可以诱惑一个人有更多的欲望，因为如果他拥有它们，他既不会变得更温暖，也不会因此而变得更好。因此，由于他们都从事一些有用的劳动，并且由于他们满足于较少的东西，所以他们中间的一切东西都非常丰富；因此，经常会发生这样的情况：由于缺乏其他工作，大量人员被派去修理高速公路。但当不进行公共事务时，工作时间就会减少。地方官员从不让人民从事不必要的劳动，因为宪法的主要目的是根据公众的需要来规范劳动，并给予人民尽可能多的时间来提高他们的思想，他们认为生活的幸福在于。

OF THEIR TRAFFIC
他们的交通

‘But it is now time to explain to you the mutual intercourse of this people, their commerce, and the rules by which all things are distributed among them.
“但现在是时候向你们解释一下这个民族的相互交往、他们的贸易以及他们之间分配一切的规则了。

‘As their cities are composed of families, so their families are made up of those that are nearly related to one another. Their women, when they grow up, are married out, but all the males, both children and grandchildren, live still in the same house, in great obedience to their common parent, unless age has weakened his understanding, and in that case he that is next to him in age comes in his room; but lest any city should become either too great, or by any accident be dispeopled, provision is made that none of their cities may contain above six thousand families, besides those of the country around it. No family may have less than ten and more than sixteen persons in it, but there can be no determined number for the children under age; this rule is easily observed by removing some of the children of a more fruitful couple to any other family that does not abound so much in them. By the same rule they supply cities that do not increase so fast from others that breed faster; and if there is any increase over the whole island, then they draw out a number of their citizens out of the several towns and send them over to the neighbouring continent, where, if they find that the inhabitants have more soil than they can well cultivate, they fix a colony, taking the inhabitants into their society if they are willing to live with them; and where they do that of their own accord, they quickly enter into their method of life and conform to their rules, and this proves a happiness to both nations; for, according to their constitution, such care is taken of the soil that it becomes fruitful enough for both, though it might be otherwise too narrow and barren for any one of them. But if the natives refuse to conform themselves to their laws they drive them out of those bounds which they mark out for themselves, and use force if they resist, for they account it a very just cause of war for a nation to hinder others from possessing a part of that soil of which they make no use, but which is suffered to lie idle and uncultivated, since every man has, by the law of nature, a right to such a waste portion of the earth as is necessary for his subsistence. If an accident has so lessened the number of the inhabitants of any of their towns that it cannot be made up from the other towns of the island without diminishing them too much (which is said to have fallen out but twice since they were first a people, when great numbers were carried off by the plague), the loss is then supplied by recalling as many as are wanted from their colonies, for they will abandon these rather than suffer the towns in the island to sink too low.
‘正如他们的城市是由家庭组成的一样，他们的家庭也是由彼此有近亲关系的人组成的。他们的女人长大后都嫁出去了，但所有的男人，无论是孩子还是孙子，仍然住在同一所房子里，非常服从他们共同的父母，除非年龄削弱了他的理解力，在这种情况下，他来到他的房间里，年龄在他旁边；但为了避免任何城市变得太大，或因意外而被驱散，规定除了其周围国家的家庭外，任何城市的家庭不得超过六千户。家庭人口不得少于十人，多于十六人，但未成年子女的人数不得确定；通过将一对多产夫妇的一些孩子转移到任何其他没有那么多孩子的家庭中，可以很容易地遵守这条规则。按照同样的规则，它们为增长速度较慢的城市供应其他增长较快的城市；如果整个岛上的土地有任何增加，那么他们就会从几个城镇中抽出一些公民，并将他们送到邻近的大陆，在那里，如果他们发现居民的土地多于他们可以耕种的土地，他们建立一个殖民地，如果居民愿意与他们一起生活，他们就会将他们纳入他们的社会；当他们自愿这样做时，他们很快就会进入他们的生活方式并遵守他们的规则，这对两国来说都是幸福的。因为，根据他们的体质，他们对土地的照顾程度很高，使土地对双方来说都足够肥沃，尽管对于他们中的任何一个人来说，土地可能都太狭窄和贫瘠。 但是，如果土著人拒绝遵守他们的法律，他们就会将他们赶出他们为自己划定的界限，如果他们反抗，就会使用武力，因为他们认为，一个国家阻止其他国家占有土地是一个非常正义的战争原因。他们不利用土地的一部分，而是闲置和未开垦的土地，因为根据自然法，每个人都有权获得其生存所必需的土地的废弃部分。如果一场事故导致任何一个城镇的居民数量减少，以至于岛上其他城镇的人口数量无法弥补，而不会使居民人数减少太多（据说自从他们成为一个民族以来，这种情况已经发生过两次）当大量人口被瘟疫带走时），损失可以通过从殖民地召回尽可能多的人来弥补，因为他们会放弃这些殖民地，而不是让岛上的城镇陷得太低。

‘But to return to their manner of living in society: the oldest man of every family, as has been already said, is its governor; wives serve their husbands, and children their parents, and always the younger serves the elder. Every city is divided into four equal parts, and in the middle of each there is a market-place. What is brought thither, and manufactured by the several families, is carried from thence to houses appointed for that purpose, in which all things of a sort are laid by themselves; and thither every father goes, and takes whatsoever he or his family stand in need of, without either paying for it or leaving anything in exchange. There is no reason for giving a denial to any person, since there is such plenty of everything among them; and there is no danger of a man’s asking for more than he needs; they have no inducements to do this, since they are sure they shall always be supplied: it is the fear of want that makes any of the whole race of animals either greedy or ravenous; but, besides fear, there is in man a pride that makes him fancy it a particular glory to excel others in pomp and excess; but by the laws of the Utopians, there is no room for this. Near these markets there are others for all sorts of provisions, where there are not only herbs, fruits, and bread, but also fish, fowl, and cattle. There are also, without their towns, places appointed near some running water for killing their beasts and for washing away their filth, which is done by their slaves; for they suffer none of their citizens to kill their cattle, because they think that pity and good-nature, which are among the best of those affections that are born with us, are much impaired by the butchering of animals; nor do they suffer anything that is foul or unclean to be brought within their towns, lest the air should be infected by ill-smells, which might prejudice their health. In every street there are great halls, that lie at an equal distance from each other, distinguished by particular names. The Syphogrants dwell in those that are set over thirty families, fifteen lying on one side of it, and as many on the other. In these halls they all meet and have their repasts; the stewards of every one of them come to the market-place at an appointed hour, and according to the number of those that belong to the hall they carry home provisions. But they take more care of their sick than of any others; these are lodged and provided for in public hospitals. They have belonging to every town four hospitals, that are built without their walls, and are so large that they may pass for little towns; by this means, if they had ever such a number of sick persons, they could lodge them conveniently, and at such a distance that such of them as are sick of infectious diseases may be kept so far from the rest that there can be no danger of contagion. The hospitals are furnished and stored with all things that are convenient for the ease and recovery of the sick; and those that are put in them are looked after with such tender and watchful care, and are so constantly attended by their skilful physicians, that as none is sent to them against their will, so there is scarce one in a whole town that, if he should fall ill, would not choose rather to go thither than lie sick at home.
“但是回到他们的社会生活方式：正如已经说过的，每个家庭中最年长的男人是其统治者；妻子侍奉丈夫，子女侍奉父母，总是小的侍奉长的。每个城市都被分成四个相等的部分，每个部分的中间都有一个市场。带到那里并由几个家庭制造的东西，从那里运到为此目的指定的房屋，所有类似的东西都被单独放置在其中。每个父亲都会去那里，拿走他或他的家人需要的任何东西，既不付钱，也不留下任何东西作为交换。没有理由拒绝任何人，因为他们之中的一切都如此丰富；一个人的要求不存在超出他需要的危险；他们没有动机这样做，因为他们确信自己总是会得到供应：正是对匮乏的恐惧使所有动物要么贪婪要么贪婪。但是，除了恐惧之外，人身上还有一种骄傲，使他认为在排场和奢侈方面超越他人是一种特殊的荣耀。但根据乌托邦的法律，没有这样做的余地。在这些市场附近还有其他一些出售各种物资的市场，那里不仅有香草、水果和面包，还有鱼、禽和牛。 在没有城镇的情况下，也有一些地方指定在流水附近，用来杀死他们的牲畜，清洗他们的污秽，这是由他们的奴隶完成的。因为他们不允许自己的公民宰杀他们的牲畜，因为他们认为，同情心和善良本性是我们与生俱来的最好的情感之一，但宰杀动物会大大损害他们的同情心和善良的本性。他们也不允许将任何污秽或不洁的物品带入他们的城镇，以免空气受到恶臭的污染，从而损害他们的健康。每条街道上都有大厅，彼此距离相等，并以特定的名称进行区分。 Syphogrants 居住在三十多个家庭中，一侧有十五个家庭，另一侧也有同样多的家庭。他们都在这些大厅里聚会、吃饭。每个人的管家都会在指定的时间来到市场，并根据大厅里的人数携带回家的食物。但他们比其他人更关心自己的病人。这些费用由公立医院存放和提供。每个城镇都有四家医院，这些医院没有围墙而建，规模很大，足以让人误以为是小城镇。通过这种方式，如果他们有一定数量的病人，他们可以方便地安置他们，并保持一定的距离，使那些患有传染病的人可以与其他人保持一定的距离，以免发生危险的传染。 医院配备和储存一切方便病人康复的物品；那些被安置在其中的人都受到如此温柔和警惕的照顾，并且有熟练的医生不断地照顾，以至于没有人会违背他们的意愿被送到他们那里，所以整个城镇中几乎没有一个人，如果如果他生病了，他不会选择去那里，而是躺在家里生病。

‘After the steward of the hospitals has taken for the sick whatsoever the physician prescribes, then the best things that are left in the market are distributed equally among the halls in proportion to their numbers; only, in the first place, they serve the Prince, the Chief Priest, the Tranibors, the Ambassadors, and strangers, if there are any, which, indeed, falls out but seldom, and for whom there are houses, well furnished, particularly appointed for their reception when they come among them. At the hours of dinner and supper the whole Syphogranty being called together by sound of trumpet, they meet and eat together, except only such as are in the hospitals or lie sick at home. Yet, after the halls are served, no man is hindered to carry provisions home from the marketplace, for they know that none does that but for some good reason; for though any that will may eat at home, yet none does it willingly, since it is both ridiculous and foolish for any to give themselves the trouble to make ready an ill dinner at home when there is a much more plentiful one made ready for him so near hand. All the uneasy and sordid services about these halls are performed by their slaves; but the dressing and cooking their meat, and the ordering their tables, belong only to the women, all those of every family taking it by turns. They sit at three or more tables, according to their number; the men sit towards the wall, and the women sit on the other side, that if any of them should be taken suddenly ill, which is no uncommon case amongst women with child, she may, without disturbing the rest, rise and go to the nurses’ room (who are there with the sucking children), where there is always clean water at hand and cradles, in which they may lay the young children if there is occasion for it, and a fire, that they may shift and dress them before it. Every child is nursed by its own mother if death or sickness does not intervene; and in that case the Syphogrants’ wives find out a nurse quickly, which is no hard matter, for any one that can do it offers herself cheerfully; for as they are much inclined to that piece of mercy, so the child whom they nurse considers the nurse as its mother. All the children under five years old sit among the nurses; the rest of the younger sort of both sexes, till they are fit for marriage, either serve those that sit at table, or, if they are not strong enough for that, stand by them in great silence and eat what is given them; nor have they any other formality of dining. In the middle of the first table, which stands across the upper end of the hall, sit the Syphogrant and his wife, for that is the chief and most conspicuous place; next to him sit two of the most ancient, for there go always four to a mess. If there is a temple within the Syphogranty, the Priest and his wife sit with the Syphogrant above all the rest; next them there is a mixture of old and young, who are so placed that as the young are set near others, so they are mixed with the more ancient; which, they say, was appointed on this account: that the gravity of the old people, and the reverence that is due to them, might restrain the younger from all indecent words and gestures. Dishes are not served up to the whole table at first, but the best are first set before the old, whose seats are distinguished from the young, and, after them, all the rest are served alike. The old men distribute to the younger any curious meats that happen to be set before them, if there is not such an abundance of them that the whole company may be served alike.
‘医院的管家为病人服用了医生开的药后，市场上剩下的最好的东西按照数量的比例平均分配给各个大厅；只是，首先，他们为王子、大祭司、特拉尼博尔人、大使和陌生人服务，如果有的话，确实，他们很少摔倒，而且为他们提供了房屋，设施齐全，特别是当他们来到他们中间时，被指定接待他们。晚餐和晚饭的时候，整个 Syphogranty 都会被喇叭声召集在一起，一起吃饭，只有那些在医院或生病在家的人除外。然而，在大厅服务完毕后，没有人会被阻止从市场上把食物带回家，因为他们知道没有人这样做，除非有某种充分的理由。因为虽然任何愿意在家吃饭的人都可以在家吃饭，但没有人愿意这样做，因为当家里已经为他准备了丰盛得多的晚餐时，任何人还费力在家准备一顿糟糕的晚餐，这既荒谬又愚蠢。这么近的手。这些大厅里所有令人不安和肮脏的服务都是由他们的奴隶完成的。但拌菜、煮肉、点菜，全是女人的事，各家各户轮流做。 根据人数，他们坐在三张或更多桌子上；男人们靠墙而坐，女人则坐在另一边，这样，如果他们中的任何一个突然生病了（这在怀有孩子的妇女中并不罕见），她可以在不影响其他人休息的情况下起身去医院。护士室（他们和吃奶的孩子在那里），那里总是有干净的水和摇篮，如果有必要的话，他们可以把幼儿放在里面，还有火，以便他们可以为他们换衣服和穿衣在它之前。如果不发生死亡或疾病，每个孩子都由自己的母亲喂养；在这种情况下，赛弗格兰特夫妇的妻子们很快就会找到一名护士，这并不难，因为任何能做到这一点的人都会很乐意地提供自己。因为他们非常倾向于这种仁慈，所以他们所哺育的孩子也将保姆视为自己的母亲。所有五岁以下的孩子都坐在护士中间；其余的年轻男女，在适合结婚之前，要么为坐在餐桌上的人服务，要么，如果他们不够强壮，就默默地站在他们旁边，吃给他们的东西；他们也没有任何其他用餐礼仪。第一张桌子位于大厅的上端，中间坐着西弗格兰特和他的妻子，因为那是最主要、最显眼的地方。他旁边坐着两个最古老的人，因为总是有四个人乱七八糟。 如果Syphogranty内有一座寺庙，牧师和他的妻子会与Syphogrant坐在一起，高于其他人。接下来是年长者和年轻人的混合体，他们的位置是这样的：当年轻人靠近其他人时，他们就与年长者混合在一起。他们说，这样做的原因是：老年人的严肃性和对他们应有的尊敬，可能会限制年轻人的所有不雅言语和手势。菜肴一开始不会摆满全桌，而是先把最好的摆在老人面前，老人的座位与年轻人分开，之后，其余的人都一视同仁。老人们把摆在他们面前的任何奇怪的肉类都分发给年轻人，如果这些肉类的数量不足以让整个公司都得到同样的服务的话。

‘Thus old men are honoured with a particular respect, yet all the rest fare as well as they. Both dinner and supper are begun with some lecture of morality that is read to them; but it is so short that it is not tedious nor uneasy to them to hear it. From hence the old men take occasion to entertain those about them with some useful and pleasant enlargements; but they do not engross the whole discourse so to themselves during their meals that the younger may not put in for a share; on the contrary, they engage them to talk, that so they may, in that free way of conversation, find out the force of every one’s spirit and observe his temper. They despatch their dinners quickly, but sit long at supper, because they go to work after the one, and are to sleep after the other, during which they think the stomach carries on the concoction more vigorously. They never sup without music, and there is always fruit served up after meat; while they are at table some burn perfumes and sprinkle about fragrant ointments and sweet waters—in short, they want nothing that may cheer up their spirits; they give themselves a large allowance that way, and indulge themselves in all such pleasures as are attended with no inconvenience. Thus do those that are in the towns live together; but in the country, where they live at a great distance, every one eats at home, and no family wants any necessary sort of provision, for it is from them that provisions are sent unto those that live in the towns.
‘因此，老年人受到特别的尊重，但其他人也和他们一样。晚餐和晚餐都以向他们朗读一些道德讲座开始。但它很短，所以他们听起来并不乏味，也不感到不安。从那时起，老人就有机会用一些有用的、令人愉快的扩展来娱乐他们周围的人。但他们在吃饭时并不会全神贯注于自己的谈话，以免年幼的孩子无法分享。相反，他们让他们说话，以便他们可以在那种自由的交谈中，发现每个人的精神力量，观察每个人的脾气。他们很快就把晚餐送出去，但吃晚饭时却坐了很长时间，因为他们在一顿饭后去上班，在另一顿饭后就睡觉，在这段时间里，他们认为胃会更有力地搬运混合物。他们吃饭时不会没有音乐，吃完饭后总是有水果。当他们在餐桌上时，有些人会烧香水，撒上香膏和甜水——总之，他们不想要任何能让他们精神振奋的东西；他们以这种方式给自己很大的津贴，并沉迷于所有这些没有任何不便的快乐之中。城里的人就这样住在一起；但在乡下，他们住在很远的地方，每个人都在家里吃饭，没有一个家庭需要任何必要的食物，因为食物是从他们那里送到城镇里的居民那里的。

OF THE TRAVELLING OF THE UTOPIANS
乌托邦人的旅行

If any man has a mind to visit his friends that live in some other town, or desires to travel and see the rest of the country, he obtains leave very easily from the Syphogrant and Tranibors, when there is no particular occasion for him at home. Such as travel carry with them a passport from the Prince, which both certifies the licence that is granted for travelling, and limits the time of their return. They are furnished with a waggon and a slave, who drives the oxen and looks after them; but, unless there are women in the company, the waggon is sent back at the end of the journey as a needless encumbrance. While they are on the road they carry no provisions with them, yet they want for nothing, but are everywhere treated as if they were at home. If they stay in any place longer than a night, every one follows his proper occupation, and is very well used by those of his own trade; but if any man goes out of the city to which he belongs without leave, and is found rambling without a passport, he is severely treated, he is punished as a fugitive, and sent home disgracefully; and, if he falls again into the like fault, is condemned to slavery. If any man has a mind to travel only over the precinct of his own city, he may freely do it, with his father’s permission and his wife’s consent; but when he comes into any of the country houses, if he expects to be entertained by them, he must labour with them and conform to their rules; and if he does this, he may freely go over the whole precinct, being then as useful to the city to which he belongs as if he were still within it. Thus you see that there are no idle persons among them, nor pretences of excusing any from labour. There are no taverns, no alehouses, nor stews among them, nor any other occasions of corrupting each other, of getting into corners, or forming themselves into parties; all men live in full view, so that all are obliged both to perform their ordinary task and to employ themselves well in their spare hours; and it is certain that a people thus ordered must live in great abundance of all things, and these being equally distributed among them, no man can want or be obliged to beg.
如果任何人想去拜访住在其他城镇的朋友，或者想要旅行并参观这个国家的其他地方，当他在家中没有特殊情况时，他很容易从西弗格兰特和特拉尼博尔获得休假。例如旅行时随身携带王子的护照，这既证明了旅行所授予的许可证，又限制了他们的返回时间。他们配有一辆马车和一名赶牛并看护牛的奴隶。但是，除非公司中有女性，否则马车会在旅程结束时被送回，作为不必要的负担。他们在路上没有携带任何食物，却一无所求，但到处都受到像在家一样的待遇。如果他们在某个地方停留的时间超过一夜，每个人都会各司其职，并受到同业的利用。但是，如果有人未经许可离开他所属的城市，被发现没有护照在外闲逛，他就会受到严厉的对待，他会被当作逃犯来惩罚，并被羞辱地遣送回国。如果他再次犯同样的错误，就会被判处奴隶制。如果任何男子只想在自己城市的范围内旅行，在征得其父亲和妻子同意的情况下，他可以自由地进行；但是，当他进入任何乡间别墅时，如果他希望受到他们的款待，他就必须与他们一起劳动并遵守他们的规则。如果他这样做了，他就可以自由地走遍整个辖区，对他所属的城市也同样有用，就好像他还在这座城市里一样。由此可见，他们之中没有闲人，也没有借口借口劳作。 他们之间没有小酒馆，没有啤酒馆，也没有炖菜，也没有任何其他互相腐蚀、走入角落或结成党派的场合；所有人都生活在众目睽睽之下，因此所有人都必须履行自己的日常任务并在业余时间充分利用自己的时间。可以肯定的是，一个如此秩序井然的民族必定生活在一切事物的丰富之中，并且这些东西在他们之间平均分配，没有人会想要或被迫乞讨。

‘In their great council at Amaurot, to which there are three sent from every town once a year, they examine what towns abound in provisions and what are under any scarcity, that so the one may be furnished from the other; and this is done freely, without any sort of exchange; for, according to their plenty or scarcity, they supply or are supplied from one another, so that indeed the whole island is, as it were, one family. When they have thus taken care of their whole country, and laid up stores for two years (which they do to prevent the ill consequences of an unfavourable season), they order an exportation of the overplus, both of corn, honey, wool, flax, wood, wax, tallow, leather, and cattle, which they send out, commonly in great quantities, to other nations. They order a seventh part of all these goods to be freely given to the poor of the countries to which they send them, and sell the rest at moderate rates; and by this exchange they not only bring back those few things that they need at home (for, indeed, they scarce need anything but iron), but likewise a great deal of gold and silver; and by their driving this trade so long, it is not to be imagined how vast a treasure they have got among them, so that now they do not much care whether they sell off their merchandise for money in hand or upon trust. A great part of their treasure is now in bonds; but in all their contracts no private man stands bound, but the writing runs in the name of the town; and the towns that owe them money raise it from those private hands that owe it to them, lay it up in their public chamber, or enjoy the profit of it till the Utopians call for it; and they choose rather to let the greatest part of it lie in their hands, who make advantage by it, than to call for it themselves; but if they see that any of their other neighbours stand more in need of it, then they call it in and lend it to them. Whenever they are engaged in war, which is the only occasion in which their treasure can be usefully employed, they make use of it themselves; in great extremities or sudden accidents they employ it in hiring foreign troops, whom they more willingly expose to danger than their own people; they give them great pay, knowing well that this will work even on their enemies; that it will engage them either to betray their own side, or, at least, to desert it; and that it is the best means of raising mutual jealousies among them. For this end they have an incredible treasure; but they do not keep it as a treasure, but in such a manner as I am almost afraid to tell, lest you think it so extravagant as to be hardly credible. This I have the more reason to apprehend because, if I had not seen it myself, I could not have been easily persuaded to have believed it upon any man’s report.
“在阿莫罗特的大会议上，每个城镇每年都会派出三名成员参加会议，他们会检查哪些城镇的粮食丰富，哪些城镇缺乏，以便可以从另一个城镇提供供给；这是自由进行的，没有任何形式的交换；因为，根据它们的丰富或稀缺，它们相互供给或被供给，因此整个岛屿确实可以说是一个家庭。当他们这样照顾好整个国家并储备了两年的储备后（他们这样做是为了防止不利季节的不良后果），他们下令出口过剩的产品，包括玉米、蜂蜜、羊毛、亚麻。 、木材、蜡、牛脂、皮革和牲畜，他们通常大量向其他国家出口。他们下令将所有这些货物的七分之一免费送给目的地国家的穷人，并以适度的价格出售其余的；通过这种交换，他们不仅带回了家里所需要的少量物品（因为事实上，除了铁之外，他们几乎不需要任何东西），而且还带回了大量的金银。由于他们长期推动这项贸易，无法想象他们在其中拥有了多么巨大的宝藏，因此现在他们不太关心是为了手头的钱还是为了信托而出售他们的商品。 他们的大部分财富现在都被债券化了。但在他们的所有合同中，没有私人受到约束，而是以城镇的名义书写。欠他们钱的城镇从那些欠他们钱的私人手中筹集资金，将其存放在公共房间里，或者享受其中的利润，直到乌托邦主义者要求为止。他们宁愿把大部分的钱掌握在自己手中，从而从中获利，也不愿自己去争取。但如果他们发现其他邻居更需要这笔钱，他们就会打电话借给他们。每当他们卷入战争时，这是他们的财宝可以发挥作用的唯一场合，他们就会自己使用它。当他们陷入绝境或突发事故时，他们会雇佣外国军队，他们比本国人民更愿意让外国军队面临危险。他们给他们丰厚的报酬，因为他们很清楚这甚至对他们的敌人也有效。这将使他们要么背叛自己的一方，要么至少抛弃自己的一方；这是引起他们之间相互嫉妒的最好手段。为此，他们拥有令人难以置信的宝藏；但他们并没有把它当成珍宝，而是以我几乎不敢说的方式保存，以免你认为它太过奢侈以至于难以置信。我更有理由理解这一点，因为如果不是我亲眼所见，我不可能轻易相信任何人的报告。

‘It is certain that all things appear incredible to us in proportion as they differ from known customs; but one who can judge aright will not wonder to find that, since their constitution differs so much from ours, their value of gold and silver should be measured by a very different standard; for since they have no use for money among themselves, but keep it as a provision against events which seldom happen, and between which there are generally long intervening intervals, they value it no farther than it deserves—that is, in proportion to its use. So that it is plain they must prefer iron either to gold or silver, for men can no more live without iron than without fire or water; but Nature has marked out no use for the other metals so essential as not easily to be dispensed with. The folly of men has enhanced the value of gold and silver because of their scarcity; whereas, on the contrary, it is their opinion that Nature, as an indulgent parent, has freely given us all the best things in great abundance, such as water and earth, but has laid up and hid from us the things that are vain and useless.
“可以肯定的是，所有事情对我们来说都显得不可思议，因为它们与已知的习俗不同；但是，只要有正确判断力的人就会毫不奇怪地发现，由于他们的宪法与我们的宪法有很大不同，所以他们的金银价值应该用一种截然不同的标准来衡量；因为，由于他们之间对金钱没有用处，而是将其保留下来，以备不时之需，以应对很少发生的事件，而且这些事件之间通常有很长的间隔，所以他们对金钱的重视程度不会超过其应有的程度，即与金钱的用途成正比。 。因此，很明显，他们肯定更喜欢铁而不是金或银，因为没有铁，就像没有火或水一样，人们也无法生存。但大自然已经表明其他金属没有任何用处，这些金属是如此重要而不易被放弃。由于人们的愚蠢，金银的稀缺性提高了它们的价值。相反，他们认为，大自然作为一位宽容的父母，无偿地赐给了我们一切最好的东西，如水和泥土，但却向我们储存和隐藏了那些徒劳无益的东西。无用。

‘If these metals were laid up in any tower in the kingdom it would raise a jealousy of the Prince and Senate, and give birth to that foolish mistrust into which the people are apt to fall—a jealousy of their intending to sacrifice the interest of the public to their own private advantage. If they should work it into vessels, or any sort of plate, they fear that the people might grow too fond of it, and so be unwilling to let the plate be run down, if a war made it necessary, to employ it in paying their soldiers. To prevent all these inconveniences they have fallen upon an expedient which, as it agrees with their other policy, so is it very different from ours, and will scarce gain belief among us who value gold so much, and lay it up so carefully. They eat and drink out of vessels of earth or glass, which make an agreeable appearance, though formed of brittle materials; while they make their chamber-pots and closestools of gold and silver, and that not only in their public halls but in their private houses. Of the same metals they likewise make chains and fetters for their slaves, to some of which, as a badge of infamy, they hang an earring of gold, and make others wear a chain or a coronet of the same metal; and thus they take care by all possible means to render gold and silver of no esteem; and from hence it is that while other nations part with their gold and silver as unwillingly as if one tore out their bowels, those of Utopia would look on their giving in all they possess of those metals (when there were any use for them) but as the parting with a trifle, or as we would esteem the loss of a penny! They find pearls on their coasts, and diamonds and carbuncles on their rocks; they do not look after them, but, if they find them by chance, they polish them, and with them they adorn their children, who are delighted with them, and glory in them during their childhood; but when they grow to years, and see that none but children use such baubles, they of their own accord, without being bid by their parents, lay them aside, and would be as much ashamed to use them afterwards as children among us, when they come to years, are of their puppets and other toys.
“如果这些金属被存放在王国的任何塔楼里，就会引起王子和元老院的嫉妒，并产生人们容易陷入的愚蠢的不信任——嫉妒他们打算牺牲国家的利益。”公众为了自己的私人利益。如果他们将其加工成容器或任何种类的盘子，他们担心人们可能会变得太喜欢它，因此不愿意让盘子被磨损，如果战争迫使他们用它来支付他们的士兵。为了防止所有这些不便，他们采取了一种权宜之计，这种权宜之计与他们的其他政策一致，但与我们的政策却截然不同，并且很难赢得我们如此看重黄金并如此谨慎地存放黄金的人的信任。他们用泥土或玻璃制成的器皿进食和喝水，这些器皿虽然是由易碎材料制成，但外观令人愉悦。他们用金银制造夜壶和马桶，不仅在公共大厅里，而且在私人住宅中也用金银制造。他们同样用同样的金属为他们的奴隶制作锁链和脚镣，他们为其中一些奴隶挂上金耳环，作为耻辱的徽章，并让其他人戴上同样金属的链子或王冠；因此，他们千方百计地贬低金银。因此，当其他国家像撕扯他们的肠子一样不情愿地放弃他们的金银时，乌托邦的国家却将他们所拥有的所有这些金属视为奉献（当它们有任何用处时）就像与一件小事的离别，或者就像我们认为失去一分钱一样！ 他们在海岸上发现珍珠，在岩石上发现钻石和红宝石。他们不照顾它们，但是，如果他们偶然发现它们，他们就会擦亮它们，并用它们装饰自己的孩子，孩子们在童年时对它们感到高兴，并以它们为荣。但当他们长大后，发现除了孩子之外没有人使用这些小玩意，他们会在没有父母吩咐的情况下，自己把它们放在一边，然后像我们中间的孩子一样羞于使用它们。他们到了岁月，都是他们的木偶和其他玩具。

‘I never saw a clearer instance of the opposite impressions that different customs make on people than I observed in the ambassadors of the Anemolians, who came to Amaurot when I was there. As they came to treat of affairs of great consequence, the deputies from several towns met together to wait for their coming. The ambassadors of the nations that lie near Utopia, knowing their customs, and that fine clothes are in no esteem among them, that silk is despised, and gold is a badge of infamy, used to come very modestly clothed; but the Anemolians, lying more remote, and having had little commerce with them, understanding that they were coarsely clothed, and all in the same manner, took it for granted that they had none of those fine things among them of which they made no use; and they, being a vainglorious rather than a wise people, resolved to set themselves out with so much pomp that they should look like gods, and strike the eyes of the poor Utopians with their splendour. Thus three ambassadors made their entry with a hundred attendants, all clad in garments of different colours, and the greater part in silk; the ambassadors themselves, who were of the nobility of their country, were in cloth-of-gold, and adorned with massy chains, earrings and rings of gold; their caps were covered with bracelets set full of pearls and other gems—in a word, they were set out with all those things that among the Utopians were either the badges of slavery, the marks of infamy, or the playthings of children. It was not unpleasant to see, on the one side, how they looked big, when they compared their rich habits with the plain clothes of the Utopians, who were come out in great numbers to see them make their entry; and, on the other, to observe how much they were mistaken in the impression which they hoped this pomp would have made on them. It appeared so ridiculous a show to all that had never stirred out of their country, and had not seen the customs of other nations, that though they paid some reverence to those that were the most meanly clad, as if they had been the ambassadors, yet when they saw the ambassadors themselves so full of gold and chains, they looked upon them as slaves, and forbore to treat them with reverence. You might have seen the children who were grown big enough to despise their playthings, and who had thrown away their jewels, call to their mothers, push them gently, and cry out, ‘See that great fool, that wears pearls and gems as if he were yet a child!’ while their mothers very innocently replied, ‘Hold your peace! this, I believe, is one of the ambassadors’ fools.’ Others censured the fashion of their chains, and observed, ‘That they were of no use, for they were too slight to bind their slaves, who could easily break them; and, besides, hung so loose about them that they thought it easy to throw their away, and so get from them.’ But after the ambassadors had stayed a day among them, and saw so vast a quantity of gold in their houses (which was as much despised by them as it was esteemed in other nations), and beheld more gold and silver in the chains and fetters of one slave than all their ornaments amounted to, their plumes fell, and they were ashamed of all that glory for which they had formed valued themselves, and accordingly laid it aside—a resolution that they immediately took when, on their engaging in some free discourse with the Utopians, they discovered their sense of such things and their other customs. The Utopians wonder how any man should be so much taken with the glaring doubtful lustre of a jewel or a stone, that can look up to a star or to the sun himself; or how any should value himself because his cloth is made of a finer thread; for, how fine soever that thread may be, it was once no better than the fleece of a sheep, and that sheep, was a sheep still, for all its wearing it. They wonder much to hear that gold, which in itself is so useless a thing, should be everywhere so much esteemed that even man, for whom it was made, and by whom it has its value, should yet be thought of less value than this metal; that a man of lead, who has no more sense than a log of wood, and is as bad as he is foolish, should have many wise and good men to serve him, only because he has a great heap of that metal; and that if it should happen that by some accident or trick of law (which, sometimes produces as great changes as chance itself) all this wealth should pass from the master to the meanest varlet of his whole family, he himself would very soon become one of his servants, as if he were a thing that belonged to his wealth, and so were bound to follow its fortune! But they much more admire and detest the folly of those who, when they see a rich man, though they neither owe him anything, nor are in any sort dependent on his bounty, yet, merely because he is rich, give him little less than divine honours, even though they know him to be so covetous and base-minded that, notwithstanding all his wealth, he will not part with one farthing of it to them as long as he lives!
“当我在阿莫罗特时，我在阿尼莫利亚人的大使身上观察到了不同的习俗给人们带来的相反印象，这是我从未见过的最清楚的例子。由于他们来处理重大事务，几个镇的代表聚集在一起等待他们的到来。乌托邦附近国家的使节们了解他们的习俗，知道他们不尊重漂亮的衣服，鄙视丝绸，而黄金是耻辱的标志，过去常常穿着非常朴素的衣服。但阿涅莫利亚人地处较远，与他们几乎没有什么贸易往来，他们知道他们衣着粗糙，而且都同样如此，他们理所当然地认为他们没有任何他们不使用的好东西。 ;他们是一个虚荣而不是明智的民族，他们决心以如此盛大的方式展示自己，使自己看起来像神，并以他们的辉煌震撼可怜的乌托邦人的眼睛。就这样，三位大使带着一百名侍从入场，他们都穿着不同颜色的衣服，其中大部分是丝绸衣服。大使们都是本国的贵族，身着金衣，佩戴着厚重的金链、耳环和戒指。他们的帽子上戴着镶满珍珠和其他宝石的手镯——总之，他们身上摆满了乌托邦人的所有东西，这些东西要么是奴隶制的徽章，要么是耻辱的标志，要么是儿童的玩具。 一方面，当他们将自己丰富的习惯与乌托邦人的便衣相比较时，看到他们看起来多么高大，这并不令人不快，乌托邦人大批地出来观看他们的到来；另一方面，当他们将他们丰富的习惯与乌托邦人的便衣相比较时，看到他们看起来多么高大，这并不令人不快。另一方面，观察他们希望这种盛况给他们留下的印象是多么错误。对于那些从未走出自己国家、没有见过其他国家风俗习惯的人来说，这场表演显得如此荒谬，尽管他们对那些衣着最朴素的人表示了一些敬意，就好像他们是大使一样，然而，当他们看到大使们身上挂满了金子和锁链时，他们就把他们视为奴隶，不敢恭敬地对待他们。你可能见过那些大到足以鄙视自己的玩具、扔掉珠宝的孩子们，呼喊着他们的母亲，轻轻地推着他们，大声喊道：“看那个大傻瓜，他戴着珍珠和宝石，仿佛戴着珍珠和宝石。”他还是个孩子！”而他们的母亲则非常天真地回答：“别吵了！我相信，这是使节们的傻瓜之一。”其他人则谴责他们的锁链的样式，并观察到，“它们没有任何用处，因为它们太瘦弱，无法束缚他们的奴隶，因为奴隶很容易将它们打破；而且，此外，他们对它们的束缚如此松散，以至于他们认为很容易扔掉它们，从而摆脱它们。’但是，大使们在他们中间待了一天，看到他们家里有大量的黄金（他们鄙视这些黄金，正如其他国家对黄金的尊重一样），还看到锁链和锁链里有更多的金银。一个奴隶的枷锁比他们所有的装饰品都多，他们的羽毛掉落，他们为自己所珍视的所有荣耀感到羞耻，因此将其放在一边——当他们从事某些活动时，他们立即做出了这个决定。通过与乌托邦主义者的自由对话，他们发现了他们对这些事物的感觉以及他们的其他习俗。乌托邦主义者想知道，一个人怎么会如此着迷于一颗宝石或一块石头的耀眼的、令人怀疑的光泽，因为它们可以仰望星星或太阳本身？或者一个人应该如何评价自己，因为他的衣服是用更细的线制成的？因为，无论那根线多么细，它曾经也不比羊的羊毛好多少，而那只羊仍然是一只羊，尽管它穿着它。他们非常惊讶地听到，黄金本身是无用的东西，却在任何地方都受到如此的尊重，以至于即使是人类，它是为谁而创造的，并由谁拥有它的价值，却应该被认为比这更有价值。金属;一个铅人，他的理智不亚于一根木头，他既坏又愚蠢，应该有许多聪明而善良的人来侍奉他，只因为他有一大堆铅。如果发生这种情况，由于某种意外或法律的诡计（有时会产生与机会本身一样巨大的变化），所有这些财富都从主人转移到他整个家庭中最卑鄙的仆人手中，那么他自己很快就会成为一个人。他的仆人，就好像他是属于他的财富的一个东西，因此注定要追随它的命运！ 但他们更钦佩和厌恶那些愚蠢的人，当他们看到一个富人时，虽然他们不欠他任何东西，也不以任何方式依赖他的慷慨，但仅仅因为他富有，就给他比神圣的荣誉，尽管他们知道他是如此的贪婪和卑鄙，尽管他拥有所有的财富，但只要他活着，他就不会向他们分出一分钱！

‘These and such like notions have that people imbibed, partly from their education, being bred in a country whose customs and laws are opposite to all such foolish maxims, and partly from their learning and studies—for though there are but few in any town that are so wholly excused from labour as to give themselves entirely up to their studies (these being only such persons as discover from their childhood an extraordinary capacity and disposition for letters), yet their children and a great part of the nation, both men and women, are taught to spend those hours in which they are not obliged to work in reading; and this they do through the whole progress of life. They have all their learning in their own tongue, which is both a copious and pleasant language, and in which a man can fully express his mind; it runs over a great tract of many countries, but it is not equally pure in all places. They had never so much as heard of the names of any of those philosophers that are so famous in these parts of the world, before we went among them; and yet they had made the same discoveries as the Greeks, both in music, logic, arithmetic, and geometry. But as they are almost in everything equal to the ancient philosophers, so they far exceed our modern logicians for they have never yet fallen upon the barbarous niceties that our youth are forced to learn in those trifling logical schools that are among us. They are so far from minding chimeras and fantastical images made in the mind that none of them could comprehend what we meant when we talked to them of a man in the abstract as common to all men in particular (so that though we spoke of him as a thing that we could point at with our fingers, yet none of them could perceive him) and yet distinct from every one, as if he were some monstrous Colossus or giant; yet, for all this ignorance of these empty notions, they knew astronomy, and were perfectly acquainted with the motions of the heavenly bodies; and have many instruments, well contrived and divided, by which they very accurately compute the course and positions of the sun, moon, and stars. But for the cheat of divining by the stars, by their oppositions or conjunctions, it has not so much as entered into their thoughts. They have a particular sagacity, founded upon much observation, in judging of the weather, by which they know when they may look for rain, wind, or other alterations in the air; but as to the philosophy of these things, the cause of the saltness of the sea, of its ebbing and flowing, and of the original and nature both of the heavens and the earth, they dispute of them partly as our ancient philosophers have done, and partly upon some new hypothesis, in which, as they differ from them, so they do not in all things agree among themselves.
“这些以及诸如此类的观念是人们吸收的，部分来自他们的教育，在一个习俗和法律与所有这些愚蠢的格言相反的国家中长大，部分来自他们的学习和研究——尽管在任何城镇中这样的人都很少。那些完全不用劳动而全身心投入学习的人（这些人从童年起就发现了非凡的文学能力和性格），但他们的孩子和国家的大部分人，无论男女女性被教导要把不需要工作的时间花在阅读上；他们在生命的整个过程中都这样做。他们用自己的语言学习所有的知识，这是一种丰富而令人愉快的语言，人们可以用这种语言充分表达自己的想法；它遍布许多国家的大片土地，但并不是所有地方都同样纯净。在我们拜访他们之前，他们从未听说过世界这些地区如此著名的哲学家的名字。然而他们在音乐、逻辑、算术和几何方面都取得了与希腊人相同的发现。但由于他们几乎在所有方面都与古代哲学家相同，因此他们远远超过了我们现代的逻辑学家，因为他们从未接触过我们的年轻人被迫在我们中间那些微不足道的逻辑学校中学习的野蛮细节。 他们根本不关心头脑中产生的幻想和幻想图像，以至于当我们与他们谈论一个抽象的人时，他们中没有一个人能够理解我们的意思，这个人对所有人来说都是特别普遍的（因此，尽管我们说他是我们可以用手指指着一个东西，但没有人能察觉到他），但又与其他人截然不同，就好像他是某个可怕的巨像或巨人一样；然而，尽管他们对这些空洞的概念一无所知，他们却了解天文学，并且非常熟悉天体的运动。他们拥有许多精心设计和划分的仪器，可以非常准确地计算出太阳、月亮和星星的轨迹和位置。但对于通过星星、对分或合相来占卜的骗局，他们根本没有想到过。他们在判断天气方面具有一种特殊的洞察力，这种洞察力建立在大量观察的基础上，通过这种洞察力，他们知道何时会下雨、刮风或空气中的其他变化；但至于这些事物的哲学，即大海的咸味、潮起潮落的原因，以及天地的起源和本质，他们部分地像我们古代哲学家那样争论，部分地基于某种新的假设，在这些假设中，由于它们与它们不同，所以它们在所有事情上彼此不一致。

‘As to moral philosophy, they have the same disputes among them as we have here. They examine what are properly good, both for the body and the mind; and whether any outward thing can be called truly GOOD, or if that term belong only to the endowments of the soul. They inquire, likewise, into the nature of virtue and pleasure. But their chief dispute is concerning the happiness of a man, and wherein it consists—whether in some one thing or in a great many. They seem, indeed, more inclinable to that opinion that places, if not the whole, yet the chief part, of a man’s happiness in pleasure; and, what may seem more strange, they make use of arguments even from religion, notwithstanding its severity and roughness, for the support of that opinion so indulgent to pleasure; for they never dispute concerning happiness without fetching some arguments from the principles of religion as well as from natural reason, since without the former they reckon that all our inquiries after happiness must be but conjectural and defective.
‘至于道德哲学，他们之间也有和我们这里一样的争论。他们审视什么对身体和心灵都是有益的；任何外在的事物是否可以被称为真正的善，或者这个词是否只属于灵魂的天赋。同样，他们探究美德和快乐的本质。但他们的主要争论是关于一个人的幸福，以及幸福的所在——无论是在某件事中还是在许多事情中。事实上，他们似乎更倾向于这样一种观点，即把一个人的幸福（即使不是全部，但却是主要部分）置于快乐之中。而且，似乎更奇怪的是，他们甚至利用来自宗教的论据，尽管其严厉和粗鲁，来支持这种纵容享乐的观点；因为他们从不从宗教原则和自然理性中获取一些论据，从不争论幸福问题，因为如果没有前者，他们认为我们对幸福的所有探索都只能是推测和有缺陷的。

‘These are their religious principles:That the soul of man is immortal, and that God of His goodness has designed that it should be happy; and that He has, therefore, appointed rewards for good and virtuous actions, and punishments for vice, to be distributed after this life. Though these principles of religion are conveyed down among them by tradition, they think that even reason itself determines a man to believe and acknowledge them; and freely confess that if these were taken away, no man would be so insensible as not to seek after pleasure by all possible means, lawful or unlawful, using only this caution—that a lesser pleasure might not stand in the way of a greater, and that no pleasure ought to be pursued that should draw a great deal of pain after it; for they think it the maddest thing in the world to pursue virtue, that is a sour and difficult thing, and not only to renounce the pleasures of life, but willingly to undergo much pain and trouble, if a man has no prospect of a reward. And what reward can there be for one that has passed his whole life, not only without pleasure, but in pain, if there is nothing to be expected after death? Yet they do not place happiness in all sorts of pleasures, but only in those that in themselves are good and honest. There is a party among them who place happiness in bare virtue; others think that our natures are conducted by virtue to happiness, as that which is the chief good of man. They define virtue thus—that it is a living according to Nature, and think that we are made by God for that end; they believe that a man then follows the dictates of Nature when he pursues or avoids things according to the direction of reason. They say that the first dictate of reason is the kindling in us a love and reverence for the Divine Majesty, to whom we owe both all that we have and, all that we can ever hope for. In the next place, reason directs us to keep our minds as free from passion and as cheerful as we can, and that we should consider ourselves as bound by the ties of good-nature and humanity to use our utmost endeavours to help forward the happiness of all other persons; for there never was any man such a morose and severe pursuer of virtue, such an enemy to pleasure, that though he set hard rules for men to undergo, much pain, many watchings, and other rigors, yet did not at the same time advise them to do all they could in order to relieve and ease the miserable, and who did not represent gentleness and good-nature as amiable dispositions. And from thence they infer that if a man ought to advance the welfare and comfort of the rest of mankind (there being no virtue more proper and peculiar to our nature than to ease the miseries of others, to free from trouble and anxiety, in furnishing them with the comforts of life, in which pleasure consists) Nature much more vigorously leads them to do all this for himself. A life of pleasure is either a real evil, and in that case we ought not to assist others in their pursuit of it, but, on the contrary, to keep them from it all we can, as from that which is most hurtful and deadly; or if it is a good thing, so that we not only may but ought to help others to it, why, then, ought not a man to begin with himself? since no man can be more bound to look after the good of another than after his own; for Nature cannot direct us to be good and kind to others, and yet at the same time to be unmerciful and cruel to ourselves. Thus as they define virtue to be living according to Nature, so they imagine that Nature prompts all people on to seek after pleasure as the end of all they do. They also observe that in order to our supporting the pleasures of life, Nature inclines us to enter into society; for there is no man so much raised above the rest of mankind as to be the only favourite of Nature, who, on the contrary, seems to have placed on a level all those that belong to the same species. Upon this they infer that no man ought to seek his own conveniences so eagerly as to prejudice others; and therefore they think that not only all agreements between private persons ought to be observed, but likewise that all those laws ought to be kept which either a good prince has published in due form, or to which a people that is neither oppressed with tyranny nor circumvented by fraud has consented, for distributing those conveniences of life which afford us all our pleasures.
“这些是他们的宗教原则：人的灵魂是不朽的，仁慈的上帝设计它应该是幸福的；因此，他指定了对善行和美德行为的奖赏，以及对恶行的惩罚，并在今生之后分配。尽管这些宗教原则是通过传统在他们中间传承下来的，但他们认为，甚至理性本身也决定了一个人相信和承认这些原则；坦率地承认，如果这些都被拿走，没有人会麻木不仁地不通过一切可能的手段，合法或非法来寻求快乐，只使用这种谨慎——较小的快乐不会妨碍更大的快乐，追求的快乐不应带来巨大的痛苦；因为他们认为追求美德是世界上最疯狂的事情，这是一件酸涩而困难的事情，如果一个人没有希望得到回报，不仅放弃生活的乐趣，而且愿意承受许多痛苦和麻烦。 。一个人一生不仅没有快乐，而且还痛苦，如果死后没有什么可期待的，那还能有什么回报呢？然而，他们并不把幸福寄托在各种快乐上，而只把幸福寄托在那些本身善良和诚实的快乐上。他们中间有一派把幸福寄托在赤裸裸的德行上。另一些人则认为，我们的本性是通过美德来引导幸福的，因为幸福是人类的首要利益。他们这样定义美德——它是一种按照自然而生的生活，并认为我们是为此目的而被上帝创造的；他们相信，当一个人按照理性的方向追求或避免事物时，他就遵循了自然的指示。 他们说，理性的首要指令是在我们心中点燃对神圣陛下的热爱和崇敬，我们所拥有的一切和我们所希望的一切都归功于他。其次，理性指导我们保持心灵尽可能地远离激情和快乐，我们应该认为自己受到善良和人性的纽带的约束，尽最大的努力来帮助推进幸福。所有其他人；因为从来没有一个人如此忧郁而严格地追求美德，如此与享乐为敌，尽管他为人们制定了严格的规则，让他们承受许多痛苦、许多监视和其他严酷，但同时却没有提出建议他们尽其所能来减轻和减轻痛苦，而他们并不代表温柔和善良的和蔼可亲的性格。由此他们推断，如果一个人应该促进其他人类的福利和舒适（没有什么美德比减轻他人的痛苦、摆脱麻烦和焦虑更适合我们的本性，那么，在提供他们享受生活的舒适，快乐就在其中。）大自然更加积极地引导他们为自己做这一切。快乐的生活要么是一种真正的罪恶，在这种情况下，我们不应该帮助别人追求快乐，相反，我们应该尽我们所能阻止他们，就像远离最有害和致命的东西一样。 ;或者，如果这是一件好事，因此我们不仅可以而且应该帮助别人做到这一点，那么为什么一个人不应该从自己开始呢？因为没有人比照顾自己的利益更有义务照顾他人的利益；因为大自然不能指导我们对他人善良和仁慈，但同时对自己却无情和残酷。 因此，当他们将美德定义为按照自然生活时，他们想象自然促使所有人将追求快乐作为他们所做一切的目的。他们还观察到，为了支持生活的乐趣，大自然倾向于我们进入社会。因为没有一个人比其他人类高出许多，以至于成为大自然唯一的宠儿，相反，大自然似乎将所有属于同一物种的人置于同一水平上。据此，他们推断，任何人都不应该急于寻求自己的便利而损害他人。因此，他们认为，不仅私人之间的所有协议都应该得到遵守，而且所有那些法律都应该得到遵守，这些法律要么是一位好君主以适当的形式颁布的，要么是一个既不受暴政压迫又不受暴政压迫的人民遵守的。被欺诈所规避的人同意了，因为他们分配了那些为我们提供所有乐趣的生活便利。

‘They think it is an evidence of true wisdom for a man to pursue his own advantage as far as the laws allow it, they account it piety to prefer the public good to one’s private concerns, but they think it unjust for a man to seek for pleasure by snatching another man’s pleasures from him; and, on the contrary, they think it a sign of a gentle and good soul for a man to dispense with his own advantage for the good of others, and that by this means a good man finds as much pleasure one way as he parts with another; for as he may expect the like from others when he may come to need it, so, if that should fail him, yet the sense of a good action, and the reflections that he makes on the love and gratitude of those whom he has so obliged, gives the mind more pleasure than the body could have found in that from which it had restrained itself. They are also persuaded that God will make up the loss of those small pleasures with a vast and endless joy, of which religion easily convinces a good soul.
他们认为一个人在法律允许的范围内追求自己的利益是真正智慧的证据，他们认为优先考虑公共利益而不是个人利益是虔诚的，但他们认为一个人追求自己的利益是不公正的。通过夺取别人的快乐来获得快乐；相反，他们认为，一个人为了他人的利益而放弃自己的利益，这是一个温柔而善良的灵魂的标志，通过这种方式，一个好人会发现与他放弃自己的利益一样多的快乐。其他;因为，当他需要的时候，他可能会期望别人也这样做，所以，如果这让他失败了，那么，良好行为的感觉，以及他对那些他所拥有的人的爱和感激的反思义务，给心灵比身体在克制自己的事情中所能找到的更多的快乐。他们还相信，上帝会用巨大而无尽的快乐来弥补这些小快乐的损失，而宗教很容易让一个善良的灵魂相信这种快乐。

‘Thus, upon an inquiry into the whole matter, they reckon that all our actions, and even all our virtues, terminate in pleasure, as in our chief end and greatest happiness; and they call every motion or state, either of body or mind, in which Nature teaches us to delight, a pleasure. Thus they cautiously limit pleasure only to those appetites to which Nature leads us; for they say that Nature leads us only to those delights to which reason, as well as sense, carries us, and by which we neither injure any other person nor lose the possession of greater pleasures, and of such as draw no troubles after them. But they look upon those delights which men by a foolish, though common, mistake call pleasure, as if they could change as easily the nature of things as the use of words, as things that greatly obstruct their real happiness, instead of advancing it, because they so entirely possess the minds of those that are once captivated by them with a false notion of pleasure that there is no room left for pleasures of a truer or purer kind.
“因此，在对整个问题进行调查后，他们认为我们所有的行为，甚至我们所有的美德，都以快乐为终点，就像我们的主要目的和最大的幸福一样；他们把自然教导我们愉悦的每一种运动或状态，无论是身体的还是心灵的，称为快乐。因此，他们小心翼翼地将快乐仅限于自然引导我们的欲望。因为他们说，自然只会引导我们走向那些理性和感觉所引导我们的快乐，通过这种快乐，我们既不会伤害任何人，也不会失去对更大快乐的拥有，而且不会给我们带来麻烦。但他们却把那些被人们错误地称为快乐的快乐视为一种愚蠢的、虽然常见的错误，似乎他们可以像使用言语一样轻易地改变事物的本质，因为这些快乐极大地阻碍了他们真正的幸福，而不是促进它，因为它们完全占据了那些曾经被它们所迷惑的人的心灵，导致了一种错误的快乐观念，以至于没有留下任何空间来容纳更真实或更纯粹的快乐。

‘There are many things that in themselves have nothing that is truly delightful; on the contrary, they have a good deal of bitterness in them; and yet, from our perverse appetites after forbidden objects, are not only ranked among the pleasures, but are made even the greatest designs, of life. Among those who pursue these sophisticated pleasures they reckon such as I mentioned before, who think themselves really the better for having fine clothes; in which they think they are doubly mistaken, both in the opinion they have of their clothes, and in that they have of themselves. For if you consider the use of clothes, why should a fine thread be thought better than a coarse one? And yet these men, as if they had some real advantages beyond others, and did not owe them wholly to their mistakes, look big, seem to fancy themselves to be more valuable, and imagine that a respect is due to them for the sake of a rich garment, to which they would not have pretended if they had been more meanly clothed, and even resent it as an affront if that respect is not paid them. It is also a great folly to be taken with outward marks of respect, which signify nothing; for what true or real pleasure can one man find in another’s standing bare or making legs to him? Will the bending another man’s knees give ease to yours? and will the head’s being bare cure the madness of yours? And yet it is wonderful to see how this false notion of pleasure bewitches many who delight themselves with the fancy of their nobility, and are pleased with this conceit—that they are descended from ancestors who have been held for some successions rich, and who have had great possessions; for this is all that makes nobility at present. Yet they do not think themselves a whit the less noble, though their immediate parents have left none of this wealth to them, or though they themselves have squandered it away. The Utopians have no better opinion of those who are much taken with gems and precious stones, and who account it a degree of happiness next to a divine one if they can purchase one that is very extraordinary, especially if it be of that sort of stones that is then in greatest request, for the same sort is not at all times universally of the same value, nor will men buy it unless it be dismounted and taken out of the gold. The jeweller is then made to give good security, and required solemnly to swear that the stone is true, that, by such an exact caution, a false one might not be bought instead of a true; though, if you were to examine it, your eye could find no difference between the counterfeit and that which is true; so that they are all one to you, as much as if you were blind. Or can it be thought that they who heap up a useless mass of wealth, not for any use that it is to bring them, but merely to please themselves with the contemplation of it, enjoy any true pleasure in it? The delight they find is only a false shadow of joy. Those are no better whose error is somewhat different from the former, and who hide it out of their fear of losing it; for what other name can fit the hiding it in the earth, or, rather, the restoring it to it again, it being thus cut off from being useful either to its owner or to the rest of mankind? And yet the owner, having hid it carefully, is glad, because he thinks he is now sure of it. If it should be stole, the owner, though he might live perhaps ten years after the theft, of which he knew nothing, would find no difference between his having or losing it, for both ways it was equally useless to him.
“很多事情本身并没有什么真正令人愉快的事情；相反，他们的内心充满苦涩。然而，由于我们对禁忌之物的反常欲望，它们不仅被列为快乐，而且甚至成为生活中最伟大的设计。在那些追求这些精致快乐的人中，他们认为就像我之前提到的那样，他们认为自己确实因为拥有漂亮的衣服而更好；他们认为自己双重错误，无论是对衣服的看法，还是对自己的看法。因为如果你考虑衣服的用途，为什么细线比粗线更好呢？然而，这些人似乎拥有一些超越他人的真正优势，而且并不完全归因于他们的错误，他们看起来很大，似乎认为自己更有价值，并想象他们应该受到尊重是为了一件华丽的衣服，如果他们穿得更简陋，他们就不会假装穿这件衣服，如果不尊重他们，他们甚至会认为这是一种侮辱。仅仅表现出毫无意义的外在尊重，也是一种极大的愚蠢。一个人光着身子站着，或者给他搭腿，能从中找到什么真正的快乐呢？弯曲别人的膝盖会让你的膝盖放松吗？光着头能治愈你的疯狂吗？然而，令人惊奇的是，看到这种错误的快乐观念如何迷惑了许多人，他们以自己的贵族幻想为乐，并为这种自负感到高兴——他们的祖先曾有过一些富裕的继承，并且拥有丰富的财富。拥有大量财产；因为这就是目前高贵的全部。 然而，他们并不认为自己有丝毫高贵，尽管他们的直系父母没有给他们留下任何财富，或者他们自己也把这些财富挥霍一空。乌托邦主义者对那些热衷于宝石和贵重宝石的人没有更好的看法，他们认为如果他们能买到一件非常非凡的宝石，尤其是那种宝石，那就是仅次于神圣宝石的幸福。这是人们最迫切的要求，因为同一种东西并不总是具有相同的价值，人们也不会购买它，除非它被拆下来并从黄金中取出。然后，珠宝商必须提供良好的安全保证，并庄严地宣誓这颗宝石是真的，这样，通过如此严格的警告，就不会买到假宝石而不是真宝石；然而，如果你仔细检查，你的眼睛无法发现赝品和真品之间有什么区别。这样它们对你来说都是一体的，就好像你是瞎子一样。或者，我们是否可以认为，那些积累大量无用财富的人，并不是为了给自己带来任何用处，而只是为了通过沉思这些财富来取悦自己，并从中享受到真正的快乐？他们发现的快乐只是快乐的虚假影子。那些错误与前者有所不同，并且出于害怕失去错误而隐藏它的人也好不了多少。因为还有什么其他名字可以形容将其隐藏在地下，或者更确切地说，将其恢复原状，从而切断了对其所有者或其他人类的有用性呢？然而，主人小心翼翼地把它藏了起来，他很高兴，因为他认为他现在已经确定了。 如果它被偷了，主人虽然在被盗后可能还能活十年，而他对此一无所知，但他会发现拥有或失去它没有任何区别，因为这两种方式对他来说同样没有用处。

‘Among those foolish pursuers of pleasure they reckon all that delight in hunting, in fowling, or gaming, of whose madness they have only heard, for they have no such things among them. But they have asked us, ‘What sort of pleasure is it that men can find in throwing the dice?’ (for if there were any pleasure in it, they think the doing it so often should give one a surfeit of it); ‘and what pleasure can one find in hearing the barking and howling of dogs, which seem rather odious than pleasant sounds?’ Nor can they comprehend the pleasure of seeing dogs run after a hare, more than of seeing one dog run after another; for if the seeing them run is that which gives the pleasure, you have the same entertainment to the eye on both these occasions, since that is the same in both cases. But if the pleasure lies in seeing the hare killed and torn by the dogs, this ought rather to stir pity, that a weak, harmless, and fearful hare should be devoured by strong, fierce, and cruel dogs. Therefore all this business of hunting is, among the Utopians, turned over to their butchers, and those, as has been already said, are all slaves, and they look on hunting as one of the basest parts of a butcher’s work, for they account it both more profitable and more decent to kill those beasts that are more necessary and useful to mankind, whereas the killing and tearing of so small and miserable an animal can only attract the huntsman with a false show of pleasure, from which he can reap but small advantage. They look on the desire of the bloodshed, even of beasts, as a mark of a mind that is already corrupted with cruelty, or that at least, by too frequent returns of so brutal a pleasure, must degenerate into it.
在那些愚蠢的享乐追求者中，他们认为所有的快乐都来自于狩猎、捕鸟或游戏，他们只是听说过这些快乐的疯狂，因为他们当中没有这样的东西。但他们问我们：“人们在掷骰子时能找到什么样的乐趣？”（因为如果掷骰子有什么乐趣的话，他们认为经常这样做就应该让人感到厌倦了）； “听狗的吠叫和嚎叫能得到什么乐趣，这些声音看起来相当可恶，而不是令人愉快的声音？”他们也无法理解看到狗追赶野兔的乐趣，比看到一只狗追赶另一只狗的乐趣更多；因为如果看到它们奔跑就给人带来快乐，那么在这两种情况下你都会得到同样的视觉娱乐，因为这两种情况都是一样的。但是，如果快乐在于看到野兔被狗杀死和撕裂，那么这应该引起怜悯，一只弱小、无害、可怕的野兔被强大、凶猛、残忍的狗吃掉。因此，在乌托邦人中，所有这些狩猎事务都交给了他们的屠夫，而正如已经说过的，这些人都是奴隶，他们将狩猎视为屠夫工作中最卑鄙的部分之一，因为他们认为杀死那些对人类更必要、更有用的动物既更有利可图，也更体面，而杀戮和撕扯如此小而可怜的动物只能以虚假的快乐来吸引猎人，从中他可以获得的只是小优势。他们认为流血的欲望，甚至是野兽的流血欲望，都被视为心灵已经因残酷而腐化的标志，或者至少，由于过于频繁地返回如此残酷的快乐，必须堕落到这种程度。

‘Thus though the rabble of mankind look upon these, and on innumerable other things of the same nature, as pleasures, the Utopians, on the contrary, observing that there is nothing in them truly pleasant, conclude that they are not to be reckoned among pleasures; for though these things may create some tickling in the senses (which seems to be a true notion of pleasure), yet they imagine that this does not arise from the thing itself, but from a depraved custom, which may so vitiate a man’s taste that bitter things may pass for sweet, as women with child think pitch or tallow taste sweeter than honey; but as a man’s sense, when corrupted either by a disease or some ill habit., does not change the nature of other things, so neither can it change the nature of pleasure.
因此，尽管人类的乌托邦们将这些以及无数其他具有相同性质的事物视为快乐，但乌托邦主义者却相反，他们观察到其中没有什么真正令人愉快的，因此得出结论认为它们不应该被视为快乐。乐趣；因为虽然这些东西可能会在感官上产生一些痒痒的感觉（这似乎是一种真正的快乐概念），但他们认为这并不是由东西本身引起的，而是来自一种堕落的习俗，它可能会严重损害一个人的品味，以至于苦的东西可能会被误认为是甜的，就像怀孕的妇女认为沥青或牛油的味道比蜂蜜更甜一样。但是，正如一个人的感觉，当因疾病或某些不良习惯而败坏时，不会改变其他事物的本质，因此它也不能改变快乐的本质。

‘They reckon up several sorts of pleasures, which they call true ones; some belong to the body, and others to the mind. The pleasures of the mind lie in knowledge, and in that delight which the contemplation of truth carries with it; to which they add the joyful reflections on a well-spent life, and the assured hopes of a future happiness. They divide the pleasures of the body into two sorts—the one is that which gives our senses some real delight, and is performed either by recruiting Nature and supplying those parts which feed the internal heat of life by eating and drinking, or when Nature is eased of any surcharge that oppresses it, when we are relieved from sudden pain, or that which arises from satisfying the appetite which Nature has wisely given to lead us to the propagation of the species. There is another kind of pleasure that arises neither from our receiving what the body requires, nor its being relieved when overcharged, and yet, by a secret unseen virtue, affects the senses, raises the passions, and strikes the mind with generous impressions—this is, the pleasure that arises from music. Another kind of bodily pleasure is that which results from an undisturbed and vigorous constitution of body, when life and active spirits seem to actuate every part. This lively health, when entirely free from all mixture of pain, of itself gives an inward pleasure, independent of all external objects of delight; and though this pleasure does not so powerfully affect us, nor act so strongly on the senses as some of the others, yet it may be esteemed as the greatest of all pleasures; and almost all the Utopians reckon it the foundation and basis of all the other joys of life, since this alone makes the state of life easy and desirable, and when this is wanting, a man is really capable of no other pleasure. They look upon freedom from pain, if it does not rise from perfect health, to be a state of stupidity rather than of pleasure. This subject has been very narrowly canvassed among them, and it has been debated whether a firm and entire health could be called a pleasure or not. Some have thought that there was no pleasure but what was ‘excited’ by some sensible motion in the body. But this opinion has been long ago excluded from among them; so that now they almost universally agree that health is the greatest of all bodily pleasures; and that as there is a pain in sickness which is as opposite in its nature to pleasure as sickness itself is to health, so they hold that health is accompanied with pleasure. And if any should say that sickness is not really pain, but that it only carries pain along with it, they look upon that as a fetch of subtlety that does not much alter the matter. It is all one, in their opinion, whether it be said that health is in itself a pleasure, or that it begets a pleasure, as fire gives heat, so it be granted that all those whose health is entire have a true pleasure in the enjoyment of it. And they reason thus:‘What is the pleasure of eating, but that a man’s health, which had been weakened, does, with the assistance of food, drive away hunger, and so recruiting itself, recovers its former vigour? And being thus refreshed it finds a pleasure in that conflict; and if the conflict is pleasure, the victory must yet breed a greater pleasure, except we fancy that it becomes stupid as soon as it has obtained that which it pursued, and so neither knows nor rejoices in its own welfare.’ If it is said that health cannot be felt, they absolutely deny it; for what man is in health, that does not perceive it when he is awake? Is there any man that is so dull and stupid as not to acknowledge that he feels a delight in health? And what is delight but another name for pleasure?
“他们提出了几种快乐，他们称之为真正的快乐；有些属于身体，有些属于心灵。心灵的快乐在于知识，在于沉思真理所带来的快乐。其中还添加了对美好生活的快乐反思，以及对未来幸福的坚定希望。他们把身体的快乐分为两类——一类是给我们的感官带来真正的愉悦，它要么通过吸收自然并通过饮食提供那些为生命提供内热的部分来实现，要么当自然当我们从突然的痛苦中解脱出来，或者从满足大自然明智地给予我们物种繁衍的食欲而产生的痛苦中解脱出来时，任何压迫它的附加负担都会得到缓解。还有另一种快乐，既不是因为我们接受了身体的需要，也不是因为身体负担过重而得到缓解，而是通过一种秘密的、看不见的美德，影响了感官，激发了激情，并给心灵留下了慷慨的印象——这就是从音乐中产生的乐趣。另一种身体愉悦是由于身体不受干扰且充满活力，生命和活跃的精神似乎在驱动每个部分而产生的。 这种活泼的健康，当完全摆脱了所有痛苦的混合时，它本身就给人一种内在的快乐，独立于所有外在的快乐对象。虽然这种快乐不像其他快乐那样强烈地影响我们，也不像其他快乐那样强烈地作用于感官，但它可以被认为是所有快乐中最伟大的。几乎所有的乌托邦主义者都认为它是生活中所有其他乐趣的基础和基础，因为仅此一项就使生活状态变得轻松而令人向往，而当缺乏这一点时，一个人实际上无法获得其他乐趣。他们认为，如果脱离痛苦不是出于完美的健康，那么这种脱离痛苦的状态就是一种愚蠢而不是快乐的状态。他们对这个话题进行了非常狭隘的探讨，并且对于坚定而完整的健康是否可以称为快乐也存在争论。有些人认为，除了身体的某种明显运动所“兴奋”之外，没有任何快乐。但这种意见早已被排除在外。因此，现在他们几乎普遍认为健康是所有身体快乐中最大的。正如疾病中的痛苦在本质上与快乐相反，正如疾病本身与健康相反一样，所以他们认为健康伴随着快乐。如果有人说疾病并不是真正的疼痛，只是伴随着疼痛，他们会认为这是一种微妙的感觉，不会对问题产生太大影响。在他们看来，无论是说健康本身就是一种快乐，还是说它产生一种快乐，就像火产生热量一样，这都是一个，所以可以理所当然地，所有健康状况良好的人都可以在健康中获得真正的快乐。享受它。 他们这样推理：‘吃东西的乐趣何在，不就是一个人本来已经衰弱的健康，在食物的帮助下，消除了饥饿，从而恢复了原来的活力吗？如此神清气爽，它在这场冲突中找到了乐趣；如果冲突是快乐，那么胜利必定会孕育出更大的快乐，除非我们想象它一旦获得了它所追求的东西就变得愚蠢，因此既不知道也不为自己的福利感到高兴。健康是感觉不到的，他们绝对否认；哪个人在健康状态下，在醒着的时候不会察觉到这一点呢？有哪个人如此迟钝和愚蠢以至于不承认他对健康感到高兴吗？快乐不就是快乐的另一个名字吗？

‘But, of all pleasures, they esteem those to be most valuable that lie in the mind, the chief of which arise out of true virtue and the witness of a good conscience. They account health the chief pleasure that belongs to the body; for they think that the pleasure of eating and drinking, and all the other delights of sense, are only so far desirable as they give or maintain health; but they are not pleasant in themselves otherwise than as they resist those impressions that our natural infirmities are still making upon us. For as a wise man desires rather to avoid diseases than to take physic, and to be freed from pain rather than to find ease by remedies, so it is more desirable not to need this sort of pleasure than to be obliged to indulge it. If any man imagines that there is a real happiness in these enjoyments, he must then confess that he would be the happiest of all men if he were to lead his life in perpetual hunger, thirst, and itching, and, by consequence, in perpetual eating, drinking, and scratching himself; which any one may easily see would be not only a base, but a miserable, state of a life. These are, indeed, the lowest of pleasures, and the least pure, for we can never relish them but when they are mixed with the contrary pains. The pain of hunger must give us the pleasure of eating, and here the pain out-balances the pleasure. And as the pain is more vehement, so it lasts much longer; for as it begins before the pleasure, so it does not cease but with the pleasure that extinguishes it, and both expire together. They think, therefore, none of those pleasures are to be valued any further than as they are necessary; yet they rejoice in them, and with due gratitude acknowledge the tenderness of the great Author of Nature, who has planted in us appetites, by which those things that are necessary for our preservation are likewise made pleasant to us. For how miserable a thing would life be if those daily diseases of hunger and thirst were to be carried off by such bitter drugs as we must use for those diseases that return seldomer upon us! And thus these pleasant, as well as proper, gifts of Nature maintain the strength and the sprightliness of our bodies.
“但是，在所有的快乐中，他们认为那些存在于心灵中的快乐是最有价值的，其中最主要的是产生于真正的美德和良心的见证。他们认为健康是身体的主要乐趣。因为他们认为，吃喝的乐趣以及所有其他感官上的乐趣只有在能够促进或维持健康的情况下才是令人向往的。但它们本身并不令人愉快，除非它们抵制我们天生的弱点仍然给我们留下的印象。因为，正如智者更希望避免疾病而不是吃药，更希望摆脱痛苦而不是通过治疗来寻求缓解一样，因此，不需要这种快乐比被迫沉溺于这种快乐更可取。如果有人想象这些享受中有真正的幸福，他就必须承认，如果他一生都生活在饥饿、口渴和瘙痒之中，那么他将是所有人中最幸福的人，从而永远生活在饥饿、干渴和瘙痒之中。吃、喝、抓自己；任何人都可以轻易地看出，这不仅是一种卑鄙的生活，而且是一种悲惨的生活状态。事实上，这些是最低级的快乐，也是最不纯粹的快乐，因为除非它们与相反的痛苦混合在一起，否则我们永远无法享受它们。饥饿的痛苦一定会给我们带来进食的乐趣，而在这里，痛苦超过了快乐。由于疼痛更加剧烈，因此持续时间也会更长；因为它是在快乐之前开始的，所以它不会停止，而是随着快乐的消失而消失，并且两者一起消失。 因此，他们认为，这些快乐中的任何一种都不应被视为必要的。然而，他们却为它们感到高兴，并怀着应有的感激之情承认伟大的大自然作者的温柔，他在我们心中种下了欲望，通过它，我们的保存所必需的东西同样使我们感到愉快。因为，如果我们必须用治疗那些很少复发的疾病那样的苦药来治愈那些日常的饥饿和口渴疾病，那生活将是多么悲惨啊！因此，这些令人愉快的、适当的自然恩赐保持着我们身体的力量和活力。

‘They also entertain themselves with the other delights let in at their eyes, their ears, and their nostrils as the pleasant relishes and seasoning of life, which Nature seems to have marked out peculiarly for man, since no other sort of animals contemplates the figure and beauty of the universe, nor is delighted with smells any further than as they distinguish meats by them; nor do they apprehend the concords or discords of sound. Yet, in all pleasures whatsoever, they take care that a lesser joy does not hinder a greater, and that pleasure may never breed pain, which they think always follows dishonest pleasures. But they think it madness for a man to wear out the beauty of his face or the force of his natural strength, to corrupt the sprightliness of his body by sloth and laziness, or to waste it by fasting; that it is madness to weaken the strength of his constitution and reject the other delights of life, unless by renouncing his own satisfaction he can either serve the public or promote the happiness of others, for which he expects a greater recompense from God. So that they look on such a course of life as the mark of a mind that is both cruel to itself and ungrateful to the Author of Nature, as if we would not be beholden to Him for His favours, and therefore rejects all His blessings; as one who should afflict himself for the empty shadow of virtue, or for no better end than to render himself capable of bearing those misfortunes which possibly will never happen.
“它们还用眼睛、耳朵和鼻孔中的其他乐趣来娱乐自己，作为生活的愉快滋味和调味品，大自然似乎专门为人类标记了这些，因为没有其他种类的动物考虑到这种形象和宇宙之美，他们对气味的喜爱程度不亚于通过气味来区分肉类。他们也不理解声音的和谐或不和谐。然而，在所有的快乐中，他们都会注意，较小的快乐不会妨碍更大的快乐，并且快乐永远不会滋生痛苦，他们认为痛苦总是伴随着不诚实的快乐。但他们认为，一个人如果耗尽了自己美丽的面容或自然力量，因懒惰和懒惰而败坏了自己活泼的身体，或者因禁食而浪费了身体，那就是疯狂的行为；削弱自己体质的力量并拒绝生活中的其他乐趣是疯狂的，除非通过放弃自己的满足，他可以服务公众或促进他人的幸福，为此他期望从上帝那里得到更大的回报。因此，他们把这样的生活方式视为一种对自己残忍、对大自然的创造者忘恩负义的思想标志，仿佛我们不会感谢他的恩惠，因此拒绝他的所有祝福；作为一个应该为美德的空虚阴影而折磨自己的人，或者为了让自己有能力承受那些可能永远不会发生的不幸，没有更好的目的。

‘This is their notion of virtue and of pleasure: they think that no man’s reason can carry him to a truer idea of them unless some discovery from heaven should inspire him with sublimer notions. I have not now the leisure to examine whether they think right or wrong in this matter; nor do I judge it necessary, for I have only undertaken to give you an account of their constitution, but not to defend all their principles. I am sure that whatever may be said of their notions, there is not in the whole world either a better people or a happier government. Their bodies are vigorous and lively; and though they are but of a middle stature, and have neither the fruitfullest soil nor the purest air in the world; yet they fortify themselves so well, by their temperate course of life, against the unhealthiness of their air, and by their industry they so cultivate their soil, that there is nowhere to be seen a greater increase, both of corn and cattle, nor are there anywhere healthier men and freer from diseases; for one may there see reduced to practice not only all the art that the husbandman employs in manuring and improving an ill soil, but whole woods plucked up by the roots, and in other places new ones planted, where there were none before. Their principal motive for this is the convenience of carriage, that their timber may be either near their towns or growing on the banks of the sea, or of some rivers, so as to be floated to them; for it is a harder work to carry wood at any distance over land than corn. The people are industrious, apt to learn, as well as cheerful and pleasant, and none can endure more labour when it is necessary; but, except in that case, they love their ease. They are unwearied pursuers of knowledge; for when we had given them some hints of the learning and discipline of the Greeks, concerning whom we only instructed them (for we know that there was nothing among the Romans, except their historians and their poets, that they would value much), it was strange to see how eagerly they were set on learning that language: we began to read a little of it to them, rather in compliance with their importunity than out of any hopes of their reaping from it any great advantage: but, after a very short trial, we found they made such progress, that we saw our labour was like to be more successful than we could have expected: they learned to write their characters and to pronounce their language so exactly, had so quick an apprehension, they remembered it so faithfully, and became so ready and correct in the use of it, that it would have looked like a miracle if the greater part of those whom we taught had not been men both of extraordinary capacity and of a fit age for instruction: they were, for the greatest part, chosen from among their learned men by their chief council, though some studied it of their own accord. In three years’ time they became masters of the whole language, so that they read the best of the Greek authors very exactly. I am, indeed, apt to think that they learned that language the more easily from its having some relation to their own. I believe that they were a colony of the Greeks; for though their language comes nearer the Persian, yet they retain many names, both for their towns and magistrates, that are of Greek derivation. I happened to carry a great many books with me, instead of merchandise, when I sailed my fourth voyage; for I was so far from thinking of soon coming back, that I rather thought never to have returned at all, and I gave them all my books, among which were many of Plato’s and some of Aristotle’s works: I had also Theophrastus on Plants, which, to my great regret, was imperfect; for having laid it carelessly by, while we were at sea, a monkey had seized upon it, and in many places torn out the leaves. They have no books of grammar but Lascares, for I did not carry Theodorus with me; nor have they any dictionaries but Hesichius and Dioscerides. They esteem Plutarch highly, and were much taken with Lucian’s wit and with his pleasant way of writing. As for the poets, they have Aristophanes, Homer, Euripides, and Sophocles of Aldus’s edition; and for historians, Thucydides, Herodotus, and Herodian. One of my companions, Thricius Apinatus, happened to carry with him some of Hippocrates’s works and Galen’s Microtechne, which they hold in great estimation; for though there is no nation in the world that needs physic so little as they do, yet there is not any that honours it so much; they reckon the knowledge of it one of the pleasantest and most profitable parts of philosophy, by which, as they search into the secrets of nature, so they not only find this study highly agreeable, but think that such inquiries are very acceptable to the Author of nature; and imagine, that as He, like the inventors of curious engines amongst mankind, has exposed this great machine of the universe to the view of the only creatures capable of contemplating it, so an exact and curious observer, who admires His workmanship, is much more acceptable to Him than one of the herd, who, like a beast incapable of reason, looks on this glorious scene with the eyes of a dull and unconcerned spectator.
“这就是他们关于美德和快乐的观念：他们认为，没有人的理性能够使他对它们有更真实的认识，除非来自天堂的某些发现能够激发他更崇高的观念。我现在没有时间去考察他们在这件事上的想法是对是错；我也认为没有必要，因为我只是承诺向你们介绍他们的宪法，而不是捍卫他们的所有原则。我确信，无论他们的观念如何，全世界都不存在更好的人民或更幸福的政府。他们的身体充满活力，充满活力；尽管他们只是中等身材，既没有世界上最肥沃的土壤，也没有世界上最纯净的空气；然而，他们通过节制的生活方式，抵御不健康的空气，并通过勤劳耕种土地，使自己的防御能力如此之强，以至于没有任何地方可以看到玉米和牲畜的产量有更大的增长，也没有看到任何地方的谷物和牲畜有更大的增长。哪里都有更健康、更远离疾病的人；因为人们可能会看到，不仅农夫在施肥和改良贫瘠土壤时所采用的所有技术都被简化了，而且整个树林都被连根拔起，并在其他地方种植了以前没有的新树林。他们这样做的主要动机是为了运输方便，他们的木材要么生长在他们的城镇附近，要么生长在海边或一些河流的岸边，以便漂流到他们那里；因为在陆地上运送木材比玉米更困难。人民勤劳、好学、开朗、愉快，没有人能忍受更多的劳动。但除此之外，他们都喜欢安逸。 他们是孜孜不倦的知识追求者；因为当我们向他们暗示了希腊人的学识和纪律时，我们只是向他们传授了希腊人的知识和纪律（因为我们知道，除了他们的历史学家和诗人之外，罗马人中没有什么东西是他们会非常看重的），奇怪的是，他们如此热切地开始学习这门语言：我们开始读一些内容给他们听，而不是出于他们的要求，而不是希望他们从中获得任何巨大的好处：但是，经过一段很长的时间之后经过短暂的试验，我们发现他们取得了如此大的进步，以至于我们看到我们的劳动比我们预期的更加成功：他们学会了如此准确地书写他们的字符并发音他们的语言，他们的理解如此之快，他们记住了它如此忠实，并且在使用它时变得如此准备和正确，以至于如果我们所教的大部分人不是具有非凡能力和适合教育年龄的人，那看起来就像是一个奇迹：他们是大部分是由他们的首席委员会从有学问的人中选出的，尽管有些人是自己研究的。三年后，他们成为了整个语言的大师，因此他们可以非常准确地阅读最好的希腊作家。事实上，我倾向于认为，由于该语言与他们自己的语言有某种关系，他们更容易学习该语言。我相信他们是希腊人的殖民地；因为虽然他们的语言更接近波斯语，但他们保留了许多源自希腊语的城镇和地方官员的名称。 当我进行第四次航行时，我碰巧随身携带了大量书籍，而不是商品。因为我根本不想很快回来，我宁愿认为永远不会回来，我把我所有的书都给了他们，其中有许多柏拉图和亚里士多德的一些著作：我还有《泰奥弗拉斯托斯论植物》，令我非常遗憾的是，它并不完美；因为当我们在海上时，我们不小心把它放在一边，一只猴子抓住了它，并撕下了许多地方的叶子。除了《拉斯卡里斯》之外，他们没有语法书，因为我没有带狄奥多罗斯。除了赫西修斯和迪奥塞里德斯之外，他们也没有任何字典。他们非常尊敬普鲁塔克，并且对卢西安的智慧和他愉快的写作方式非常着迷。至于诗人，有阿里斯托芬、荷马、欧里庇得斯、阿尔都斯版本的索福克勒斯；对于历史学家来说，有修昔底德、希罗多德和希律王。 我的一位同伴，Thricius Apinatus，碰巧随身携带了希波克拉底的一些著作和盖伦的《微技术》，他们对这些作品评价很高。因为，虽然世界上没有哪个国家像他们一样对医疗的需求如此之少，但也没有哪个国家如此重视医疗。他们认为这方面的知识是哲学中最令人愉快和最有利可图的部分之一，当他们探索自然的秘密时，他们不仅发现这项研究非常令人愉快，而且认为这种探究对于作者来说是非常容易接受的自然;想象一下，正如他，就像人类中奇怪的发动机的发明者一样，将宇宙的这台伟大机器暴露在唯一能够思考它的生物的视野中，因此，一个精确而好奇的观察者，钦佩他的工艺，会非常高兴。祂比一群畜群更能接受祂，因为一群畜群就像一头没有理性的野兽，以一个迟钝而漠不关心的旁观者的眼睛看着这辉煌的景象。

‘The minds of the Utopians, when fenced with a love for learning, are very ingenious in discovering all such arts as are necessary to carry it to perfection. Two things they owe to us, the manufacture of paper and the art of printing; yet they are not so entirely indebted to us for these discoveries but that a great part of the invention was their own. We showed them some books printed by Aldus, we explained to them the way of making paper and the mystery of printing; but, as we had never practised these arts, we described them in a crude and superficial manner. They seized the hints we gave them; and though at first they could not arrive at perfection, yet by making many essays they at last found out and corrected all their errors and conquered every difficulty. Before this they only wrote on parchment, on reeds, or on the barks of trees; but now they have established the manufactures of paper and set up printing presses, so that, if they had but a good number of Greek authors, they would be quickly supplied with many copies of them: at present, though they have no more than those I have mentioned, yet, by several impressions, they have multiplied them into many thousands. If any man was to go among them that had some extraordinary talent, or that by much travelling had observed the customs of many nations (which made us to be so well received), he would receive a hearty welcome, for they are very desirous to know the state of the whole world. Very few go among them on the account of traffic; for what can a man carry to them but iron, or gold, or silver? which merchants desire rather to export than import to a strange country: and as for their exportation, they think it better to manage that themselves than to leave it to foreigners, for by this means, as they understand the state of the neighbouring countries better, so they keep up the art of navigation which cannot be maintained but by much practice.
“乌托邦主义者的思想，当被对学习的热爱所包围时，就会非常巧妙地发现所有必要的艺术，以使其达到完美。他们欠我们两件事：造纸术和印刷术；然而，他们的这些发现并不完全归功于我们，而且大部分发明都是他们自己的。我们给他们看了一些阿尔杜斯印刷的书籍，向他们解释了造纸的方法和印刷术的奥秘；但是，由于我们从未实践过这些艺术，所以我们以粗鄙和肤浅的方式描述它们。他们抓住了我们给他们的暗示；虽然一开始他们未能达到完美，但通过写下许多文章，他们终于发现并改正了所有的错误，克服了一切困难。在此之前，他们只在羊皮纸、芦苇或树皮上书写。但现在他们已经建立了纸张制造厂并建立了印刷机，因此，如果他们只有大量的希腊作家，他们很快就会获得许多希腊作家的副​​本：目前，尽管他们只有这些我已经提到过，然而，根据几次印象，他们已经将它们增加到数千个。如果有一个人要加入他们之中，如果他有某种非凡的才能，或者通过多次旅行观察了许多国家的习俗（这使我们受到如此热烈的欢迎），他会受到热烈的欢迎，因为他们非常渴望了解整个世界的状况。很少有人因为交通的原因而进入其中；因为除了铁、金、银之外，一个人还能带什么东西给他们呢？ 商人宁愿出口而不是进口到一个陌生的国家：至于出口，他们认为自己管理比留给外国人更好，因为通过这种方式，他们可以更好地了解邻国的状况，因此，他们保持着航海艺术，而这种艺术只有通过大量练习才能保持。

OF THEIR SLAVES, AND OF THEIR MARRIAGES
他们的奴隶和他们的婚姻

‘They do not make slaves of prisoners of war, except those that are taken in battle, nor of the sons of their slaves, nor of those of other nations: the slaves among them are only such as are condemned to that state of life for the commission of some crime, or, which is more common, such as their merchants find condemned to die in those parts to which they trade, whom they sometimes redeem at low rates, and in other places have them for nothing. They are kept at perpetual labour, and are always chained, but with this difference, that their own natives are treated much worse than others: they are considered as more profligate than the rest, and since they could not be restrained by the advantages of so excellent an education, are judged worthy of harder usage. Another sort of slaves are the poor of the neighbouring countries, who offer of their own accord to come and serve them: they treat these better, and use them in all other respects as well as their own countrymen, except their imposing more labour upon them, which is no hard task to those that have been accustomed to it; and if any of these have a mind to go back to their own country, which, indeed, falls out but seldom, as they do not force them to stay, so they do not send them away empty-handed.
“他们不把战俘当作奴隶，除了那些在战斗中被俘的人，也不把他们的奴隶的儿子当作奴隶，也不把其他国家的奴隶当作奴隶：他们当中的奴隶只是那些因为某种原因而被判处这种生活状态的人。犯下某种罪行，或者，更常见的是，例如他们的商人在他们进行贸易的地方发现注定要死，他们有时以很低的价格赎回他们，而在其他地方却一无所获。他们永远从事劳作，总是被锁链锁着，但有一点不同的是，他们自己的当地人受到的待遇比其他人差得多：他们被认为比其他人更挥霍，而且因为他们无法受到如此多的好处的约束。优秀的教育，被认为值得更努力地使用。另一种奴隶是邻国的穷人，他们自愿前来为他们服务：他们对这些人更好，并在所有其他方面使用他们以及他们自己的同胞，除了他们强加给他们更多的劳动，这对于那些已经习惯了的人来说并不是什么困难的任务；如果他们中的任何一个人想回到自己的国家，事实上，他们的国家很少会失败，因为他们不强迫他们留下来，所以他们不会让他们空手而去。

‘I have already told you with what care they look after their sick, so that nothing is left undone that can contribute either to their case or health; and for those who are taken with fixed and incurable diseases, they use all possible ways to cherish them and to make their lives as comfortable as possible. They visit them often and take great pains to make their time pass off easily; but when any is taken with a torturing and lingering pain, so that there is no hope either of recovery or ease, the priests and magistrates come and exhort them, that, since they are now unable to go on with the business of life, are become a burden to themselves and to all about them, and they have really out-lived themselves, they should no longer nourish such a rooted distemper, but choose rather to die since they cannot live but in much misery; being assured that if they thus deliver themselves from torture, or are willing that others should do it, they shall be happy after death: since, by their acting thus, they lose none of the pleasures, but only the troubles of life, they think they behave not only reasonably but in a manner consistent with religion and piety; because they follow the advice given them by their priests, who are the expounders of the will of God. Such as are wrought on by these persuasions either starve themselves of their own accord, or take opium, and by that means die without pain. But no man is forced on this way of ending his life; and if they cannot be persuaded to it, this does not induce them to fail in their attendance and care of them: but as they believe that a voluntary death, when it is chosen upon such an authority, is very honourable, so if any man takes away his own life without the approbation of the priests and the senate, they give him none of the honours of a decent funeral, but throw his body into a ditch.
“我已经告诉过你，他们是多么细心地照顾病人，以便不遗余力地为他们的病情或健康做出贡献；对于那些患有顽固性疾病的人，他们想尽一切办法去珍惜，让他们的生活尽可能舒适。他们经常去看望他们，不遗余力地让自己的时间轻松地度过。但是，当有人遭受折磨和挥之不去的痛苦，以至于没有康复或缓解的希望时，牧师和地方官就会来劝告他们，既然他们现在无法继续生活，就应该成为他们自己和周围所有人的负担，他们确实已经超越了自己，他们不应该再滋生这种根深蒂固的疾病，而应该选择死亡，因为他们只能在痛苦中生存。他们确信，如果他们这样使自己摆脱酷刑，或者愿意别人这样做，他们死后就会幸福：因为，通过这样做，他们不会失去任何快乐，而只会失去生活中的烦恼，他们认为他们的行为不仅合理，而且符合宗教和虔诚；因为他们听从祭司的建议，祭司是上帝旨意的解释者。受这些劝说影响的人要么自愿挨饿，要么吸食鸦片，从而毫无痛苦地死去。 但没有人被迫以这种方式结束自己的生命。如果他们不能被说服，这并不会导致他们不去照顾和照顾他们：而是因为他们相信，当这样的权威选择自愿死亡时，这是非常光荣的，所以如果任何人在没有得到神父和元老院批准的情况下夺走了他自己的生命，他们没有给他任何体面葬礼的荣誉，而是把他的尸体扔进了沟里。

‘Their women are not married before eighteen nor their men before two-and-twenty, and if any of them run into forbidden embraces before marriage they are severely punished, and the privilege of marriage is denied them unless they can obtain a special warrant from the Prince. Such disorders cast a great reproach upon the master and mistress of the family in which they happen, for it is supposed that they have failed in their duty. The reason of punishing this so severely is, because they think that if they were not strictly restrained from all vagrant appetites, very few would engage in a state in which they venture the quiet of their whole lives, by being confined to one person, and are obliged to endure all the inconveniences with which it is accompanied. In choosing their wives they use a method that would appear to us very absurd and ridiculous, but it is constantly observed among them, and is accounted perfectly consistent with wisdom. Before marriage some grave matron presents the bride, naked, whether she is a virgin or a widow, to the bridegroom, and after that some grave man presents the bridegroom, naked, to the bride. We, indeed, both laughed at this, and condemned it as very indecent. But they, on the other hand, wondered at the folly of the men of all other nations, who, if they are but to buy a horse of a small value, are so cautious that they will see every part of him, and take off both his saddle and all his other tackle, that there may be no secret ulcer hid under any of them, and that yet in the choice of a wife, on which depends the happiness or unhappiness of the rest of his life, a man should venture upon trust, and only see about a handsbreadth of the face, all the rest of the body being covered, under which may lie hid what may be contagious as well as loathsome. All men are not so wise as to choose a woman only for her good qualities, and even wise men consider the body as that which adds not a little to the mind, and it is certain there may be some such deformity covered with clothes as may totally alienate a man from his wife, when it is too late to part with her; if such a thing is discovered after marriage a man has no remedy but patience; they, therefore, think it is reasonable that there should be good provision made against such mischievous frauds.
“他们的女人在十八岁之前不结婚，男人在两岁和二十岁之前不结婚，如果他们中的任何人在婚前遇到禁止的拥抱，他们将受到严厉的惩罚，并且婚姻的特权被剥夺，除非他们能获得特别授权王子。这种乱七八糟的事情给发生这种事的家庭的主人和女主人带来了极大的耻辱，因为人们认为他们没有尽到自己的职责。之所以如此严厉地惩罚，是因为他们认为，如果不严格克制一切游荡的欲望，很少有人会陷入这样一种状态，即把一生的宁静都限制在一个人身上，并且有义务忍受随之而来的一切不便。他们在选择妻子时所采用的方法在我们看来非常荒唐可笑，但他们却经常遵守，并且被认为完全符合智慧。结婚前，一些严肃的女主人将新娘赤身裸体地介绍给新郎，无论她是处女还是寡妇，然后，一些严肃的男子将赤身裸体的新郎介绍给新娘。事实上，我们都嘲笑了这一点，并谴责这是非常不雅的。 但另一方面，他们对所有其他国家的人的愚蠢感到惊讶，如果他们只是为了买一匹价值不高的马，他们会如此谨慎，以至于他们会看到他的每一部分，然后起飞他的马鞍和所有其他装备，其中任何一个下面都不会隐藏秘密溃疡，然而，在选择妻子时，这取决于他余生的幸福或不幸，一个男人应该冒险在信任的情况下，只能看到大约一掌宽的脸，身体的其余部分都被覆盖，下面可能隐藏着可能传染的和令人厌恶的东西。并不是所有的男人都会明智地选择一个女人，只是因为她有好的品质，甚至聪明的男人也认为身体对心灵的贡献不小，而且可以肯定的是，可能会有一些像衣服一样的畸形。当男人与妻子分离时已经太晚了，他就完全疏远了她；如果婚后发现这种事，男人除了忍耐之外别无补救办法。因此，他们认为应该制定良好的规定来防止这种恶作剧的欺诈行为，这是合理的。

‘There was so much the more reason for them to make a regulation in this matter, because they are the only people of those parts that neither allow of polygamy nor of divorces, except in the case of adultery or insufferable perverseness, for in these cases the Senate dissolves the marriage and grants the injured person leave to marry again; but the guilty are made infamous and are never allowed the privilege of a second marriage. None are suffered to put away their wives against their wills, from any great calamity that may have fallen on their persons, for they look on it as the height of cruelty and treachery to abandon either of the married persons when they need most the tender care of their consort, and that chiefly in the case of old age, which, as it carries many diseases along with it, so it is a disease of itself. But it frequently falls out that when a married couple do not well agree, they, by mutual consent, separate, and find out other persons with whom they hope they may live more happily; yet this is not done without obtaining leave of the Senate, which never admits of a divorce but upon a strict inquiry made, both by the senators and their wives, into the grounds upon which it is desired, and even when they are satisfied concerning the reasons of it they go on but slowly, for they imagine that too great easiness in granting leave for new marriages would very much shake the kindness of married people. They punish severely those that defile the marriage bed; if both parties are married they are divorced, and the injured persons may marry one another, or whom they please, but the adulterer and the adulteress are condemned to slavery, yet if either of the injured persons cannot shake off the love of the married person they may live with them still in that state, but they must follow them to that labour to which the slaves are condemned, and sometimes the repentance of the condemned, together with the unshaken kindness of the innocent and injured person, has prevailed so far with the Prince that he has taken off the sentence; but those that relapse after they are once pardoned are punished with death.
“他们更有理由在这件事上制定一项规定，因为他们是那些地区唯一不允许一夫多妻制或离婚的人，除非通奸或令人难以忍受的反常行为，因为在这些情况下参议院解除婚姻关系并准许受伤者再次结婚；但有罪的人会变得臭名昭著，并且永远不会获得第二次婚姻的特权。没有人会被允许违背自己的意愿休掉自己的妻子，以免遭受任何可能降临在他们身上的巨大灾难，因为在他们最需要温柔照顾的时候抛弃已婚人士，他们认为这是极其残忍和背叛的行为。其配偶的疾病，主要是在老年的情况下，因为老年会带来许多疾病，所以它本身就是一种疾病。但事实常常是，当一对已婚夫妇意见不一致时，他们会在双方同意的情况下分居，并寻找其他他们希望能够生活得更幸福的人；而他们也希望能与他们一起生活。然而，这是在没有获得参议院许可的情况下完成的，参议院从不承认离婚，除非参议员及其妻子对离婚的理由进行严格调查，即使他们对离婚感到满意。他们继续解释其中的原因，但速度很慢，因为他们认为，过于轻易地批准新婚夫妇的休假会极大地动摇已婚人士的善意。 他们严厉惩罚那些玷污婚床的人；如果双方都已结婚，则离婚，受伤害的人可以彼此结婚，或与他们喜欢的人结婚，但通奸者和通奸者将被判处奴隶制，但如果任何一个受伤害者无法摆脱已婚者的爱他们可能仍与他们生活在那种状态下，但他们必须跟随他们从事奴隶被谴责的劳动，有时，受谴责者的悔改，以及无辜者和受伤者坚定不移的善意，迄今为止已经占上风。王子表示他已经取消了判决；但赦免后又旧病复发的，则被处以死刑。

‘Their law does not determine the punishment for other crimes, but that is left to the Senate, to temper it according to the circumstances of the fact. Husbands have power to correct their wives and parents to chastise their children, unless the fault is so great that a public punishment is thought necessary for striking terror into others. For the most part slavery is the punishment even of the greatest crimes, for as that is no less terrible to the criminals themselves than death, so they think the preserving them in a state of servitude is more for the interest of the commonwealth than killing them, since, as their labour is a greater benefit to the public than their death could be, so the sight of their misery is a more lasting terror to other men than that which would be given by their death. If their slaves rebel, and will not bear their yoke and submit to the labour that is enjoined them, they are treated as wild beasts that cannot be kept in order, neither by a prison nor by their chains, and are at last put to death. But those who bear their punishment patiently, and are so much wrought on by that pressure that lies so hard on them, that it appears they are really more troubled for the crimes they have committed than for the miseries they suffer, are not out of hope, but that, at last, either the Prince will, by his prerogative, or the people, by their intercession, restore them again to their liberty, or, at least, very much mitigate their slavery. He that tempts a married woman to adultery is no less severely punished than he that commits it, for they believe that a deliberate design to commit a crime is equal to the fact itself, since its not taking effect does not make the person that miscarried in his attempt at all the less guilty.
“他们的法律没有决定对其他罪行的惩罚，但这由参议院根据事实情况进行调整。”丈夫有权纠正妻子和父母管教孩子的行为，除非过错严重到认为有必要公开惩罚以恐吓他人。在大多数情况下，奴隶制甚至是对最严重罪行的惩罚，因为这对罪犯本身来说并不比死亡更可怕，所以他们认为将他们保留在奴役状态比杀死他们更符合联邦的利益因为，由于他们的劳动比他们的死亡能给公众带来更大的利益，所以看到他们的苦难对其他人来说比他们的死亡所带来的恐惧更持久。如果他们的奴隶反叛，不肯负轭，不服从吩咐他们的劳动，他们就会被当作野兽，无论是监狱还是锁链都无法驯服，最后被处死。但那些耐心地承受惩罚、承受着巨大压力的人，似乎对自己所犯下的罪行比所遭受的痛苦更感到困扰，但他们并没有失去希望。但最终，要么王子将凭借他的特权，要么人民将通过他们的调解，再次恢复他们的自由，或者至少大大减轻他们的奴役。引诱已婚妇女通奸的人受到的惩罚并不比实施通奸的人轻，因为他们认为故意犯罪就等于事实本身，因为它不生效并不意味着流产的人他的尝试完全没有罪过。

‘They take great pleasure in fools, and as it is thought a base and unbecoming thing to use them ill, so they do not think it amiss for people to divert themselves with their folly; and, in their opinion, this is a great advantage to the fools themselves; for if men were so sullen and severe as not at all to please themselves with their ridiculous behaviour and foolish sayings, which is all that they can do to recommend themselves to others, it could not be expected that they would be so well provided for nor so tenderly used as they must otherwise be. If any man should reproach another for his being misshaped or imperfect in any part of his body, it would not at all be thought a reflection on the person so treated, but it would be accounted scandalous in him that had upbraided another with what he could not help. It is thought a sign of a sluggish and sordid mind not to preserve carefully one’s natural beauty; but it is likewise infamous among them to use paint. They all see that no beauty recommends a wife so much to her husband as the probity of her life and her obedience; for as some few are caught and held only by beauty, so all are attracted by the other excellences which charm all the world.
“他们非常喜欢愚人，并且认为利用愚人是卑鄙和不恰当的事情，所以他们不认为人们用愚人来消遣是有错的；在他们看来，这对愚人自己来说是一个很大的优势。因为，如果人们如此阴沉和严厉，根本不以自己可笑的行为和愚蠢的言论来取悦自己，而他们所能做的就是向别人推荐自己，那么就不能指望他们会得到如此好的待遇，也不能指望他们会得到如此好的待遇。如此温柔地使用它们，否则它们就必须如此。如果一个人因他人身体任何部位的畸形或不完美而责备他，这根本不会被认为是受到如此对待的人的反映，但他会被认为是一种可耻的行为，因为他尽其所能地责备了另一个人。没有帮助。不小心保护自然之美被认为是思想迟钝和肮脏的表现。但他们中使用油漆同样是臭名昭著的。他们都知道，没有什么美人比她的生活的正直和她的服从更能向她的丈夫推荐一个妻子了。因为，正如少数人只被美丽所吸引和坚持一样，所有人都被其他令全世界着迷的卓越事物所吸引。

‘As they fright men from committing crimes by punishments, so they invite them to the love of virtue by public honours; therefore they erect statues to the memories of such worthy men as have deserved well of their country, and set these in their market-places, both to perpetuate the remembrance of their actions and to be an incitement to their posterity to follow their example.
‘正如他们用刑罚吓唬人们去犯罪一样，他们也用公共荣誉来促使人们热爱美德；因此，他们竖立雕像来纪念这些值得为国家做出贡献的可敬之人，并将这些雕像放置在自己的市场上，既是为了永远记住他们的行为，也是为了激励他们的子孙后代效仿他们的榜样。

‘If any man aspires to any office he is sure never to compass it. They all live easily together, for none of the magistrates are either insolent or cruel to the people; they affect rather to be called fathers, and, by being really so, they well deserve the name; and the people pay them all the marks of honour the more freely because none are exacted from them. The Prince himself has no distinction, either of garments or of a crown; but is only distinguished by a sheaf of corn carried before him; as the High Priest is also known by his being preceded by a person carrying a wax light.
“如果任何人渴望获得任何职位，他肯定永远无法获得它。他们生活在一起很轻松，因为没有一个官员对人民是粗暴或残忍的。他们宁愿被称为父亲，而且，由于确实如此，他们当之无愧地被称为父亲。人民更加自由地向他们支付所有的荣誉，因为没有人向他们索取任何荣誉。王子本人没有任何区别，无论是衣服还是王冠；但唯一的区别是他面前拿着一捆玉米；大祭司也因其前面有一个手持蜡灯的人而闻名。

‘They have but few laws, and such is their constitution that they need not many. They very much condemn other nations whose laws, together with the commentaries on them, swell up to so many volumes; for they think it an unreasonable thing to oblige men to obey a body of laws that are both of such a bulk, and so dark as not to be read and understood by every one of the subjects.
“他们的法律很少，而且他们的宪法规定他们不需要太多法律。他们强烈谴责其他国家，因为这些国家的法律以及对这些法律的评论已经达到了如此之多。因为他们认为，强迫人们遵守一套庞大而晦涩难懂的法律是一件不合理的事情，以至于不能被每个臣民阅读和理解。

‘They have no lawyers among them, for they consider them as a sort of people whose profession it is to disguise matters and to wrest the laws, and, therefore, they think it is much better that every man should plead his own cause, and trust it to the judge, as in other places the client trusts it to a counsellor; by this means they both cut off many delays and find out truth more certainly; for after the parties have laid open the merits of the cause, without those artifices which lawyers are apt to suggest, the judge examines the whole matter, and supports the simplicity of such well-meaning persons, whom otherwise crafty men would be sure to run down; and thus they avoid those evils which appear very remarkably among all those nations that labour under a vast load of laws. Every one of them is skilled in their law; for, as it is a very short study, so the plainest meaning of which words are capable is always the sense of their laws; and they argue thus: all laws are promulgated for this end, that every man may know his duty; and, therefore, the plainest and most obvious sense of the words is that which ought to be put upon them, since a more refined exposition cannot be easily comprehended, and would only serve to make the laws become useless to the greater part of mankind, and especially to those who need most the direction of them; for it is all one not to make a law at all or to couch it in such terms that, without a quick apprehension and much study, a man cannot find out the true meaning of it, since the generality of mankind are both so dull, and so much employed in their several trades, that they have neither the leisure nor the capacity requisite for such an inquiry.
“他们当中没有律师，因为他们认为律师是一类以掩盖事实和夺取法律为职业的人，因此，他们认为最好每个人都为自己的案件辩护，并且将其委托给法官，就像在其他地方委托人将其委托给顾问一样；通过这种方式，他们既避免了许多延误，又更加确定地发现了真相。因为在双方公开了案情的是非曲直之后，法官在没有律师容易提出的那些诡计的情况下审查了整个事件，并支持这些善意的人的简单性，否则狡猾的人肯定会操纵他们向下;因此，他们避免了那些在大量法律负担下劳动的国家中明显出现的罪恶。他们每个人都精通他们的法律；因为，由于这是一项非常简短的研究，因此词语所能表达的最简单的含义始终是它们的规律的含义。他们这样主张：所有法律都是为了这个目的而颁布的，以便每个人都知道自己的义务；因此，这些词最简单、最明显的含义就是应该放在它们身上的含义，因为更精致的解释不容易理解，而且只会使法律对大多数人类变得毫无用处，尤其是对于那些最需要他们指导的人；因为根本不制定法律或以这样的术语表达它，如果没有快速理解和大量研究，一个人就无法找出它的真正含义，因为人类的普遍性都是如此迟钝，他们忙于自己的几项行业，因此既没有闲暇也没有能力进行这样的调查。

‘Some of their neighbours, who are masters of their own liberties (having long ago, by the assistance of the Utopians, shaken off the yoke of tyranny, and being much taken with those virtues which they observe among them), have come to desire that they would send magistrates to govern them, some changing them every year, and others every five years; at the end of their government they bring them back to Utopia, with great expressions of honour and esteem, and carry away others to govern in their stead. In this they seem to have fallen upon a very good expedient for their own happiness and safety; for since the good or ill condition of a nation depends so much upon their magistrates, they could not have made a better choice than by pitching on men whom no advantages can bias; for wealth is of no use to them, since they must so soon go back to their own country, and they, being strangers among them, are not engaged in any of their heats or animosities; and it is certain that when public judicatories are swayed, either by avarice or partial affections, there must follow a dissolution of justice, the chief sinew of society.
“他们的一些邻居是自己自由的主人（很久以前，在乌托邦主义者的帮助下，摆脱了暴政的枷锁，并且对他们在他们中间观察到的那些美德非常着迷），已经开始渴望他们会派出官员来管理他们，有的每年更换一次，有的每五年更换一次；当他们的政府结束时，他们带着极大的荣誉和尊重将他们带回乌托邦，并带走其他人代替他们统治。他们似乎为了自己的幸福和安全找到了一个非常好的权宜之计。因为一个国家的状况好坏很大程度上取决于他们的执政官，所以他们最好的选择就是选择那些没有优势的人。因为财富对他们来说没有任何用处，因为他们很快就要回到自己的国家，而他们又是他们中间的陌生人，不会参与他们的任何热情或敌意。可以肯定的是，当公共司法机构受到贪婪或偏袒的影响时，必然会导致作为社会支柱的正义的瓦解。

‘The Utopians call those nations that come and ask magistrates from them Neighbours; but those to whom they have been of more particular service, Friends; and as all other nations are perpetually either making leagues or breaking them, they never enter into an alliance with any state. They think leagues are useless things, and believe that if the common ties of humanity do not knit men together, the faith of promises will have no great effect; and they are the more confirmed in this by what they see among the nations round about them, who are no strict observers of leagues and treaties. We know how religiously they are observed in Europe, more particularly where the Christian doctrine is received, among whom they are sacred and inviolable! which is partly owing to the justice and goodness of the princes themselves, and partly to the reverence they pay to the popes, who, as they are the most religious observers of their own promises, so they exhort all other princes to perform theirs, and, when fainter methods do not prevail, they compel them to it by the severity of the pastoral censure, and think that it would be the most indecent thing possible if men who are particularly distinguished by the title of ‘The Faithful’ should not religiously keep the faith of their treaties. But in that new-found world, which is not more distant from us in situation than the people are in their manners and course of life, there is no trusting to leagues, even though they were made with all the pomp of the most sacred ceremonies; on the contrary, they are on this account the sooner broken, some slight pretence being found in the words of the treaties, which are purposely couched in such ambiguous terms that they can never be so strictly bound but they will always find some loophole to escape at, and thus they break both their leagues and their faith; and this is done with such impudence, that those very men who value themselves on having suggested these expedients to their princes would, with a haughty scorn, declaim against such craft; or, to speak plainer, such fraud and deceit, if they found private men make use of it in their bargains, and would readily say that they deserved to be hanged.
“乌托邦主义者把那些前来请他们担任行政长官的国家称为邻国；但那些他们曾为之提供过更特别服务的人，朋友们；由于所有其他国家总是要么缔结联盟，要么破坏联盟，所以它们从不与任何国家结盟。他们认为联盟是无用的东西，并相信如果人类的共同纽带不能将人们团结在一起，承诺的信仰就不会产生太大的作用；他们在周围国家中看到的情况更加证实了这一点，这些国家并不严格遵守联盟和条约。我们知道它们在欧洲受到多么虔诚的遵守，特别是在接受基督教教义的地方，它们在欧洲人中是神圣不可侵犯的！这部分是由于诸侯本身的正义和善良，部分是由于他们对教皇的尊敬，因为教皇是自己诺言中最虔诚的遵守者，所以他们劝告所有其他王子履行他们的诺言，并且当较弱的方法不占上风时，他们就会通过严厉的教牧谴责来迫使他们这样做，并认为如果那些以“忠实者”的称号而特别杰出的人不应该虔诚地保留，那将是最不雅的事情。他们的条约的信仰。 但在那个新发现的世界里，它的情况与我们的距离并不比人们的举止和生活方式更遥远，人们对联盟没有信任，尽管它们是在最神圣的仪式的盛况下建立的;相反，它们因此而更快被打破，在条约的措辞中发现了一些轻微的借口，这些条约故意以如此含糊的术语表达，以至于它们永远无法受到如此严格的约束，但它们总是会找到一些漏洞来逃避就这样，他们既破坏了联盟，也破坏了信仰；这种做法是如此厚颜无耻，以至于那些自视向君主提出这些权宜之计的人也会傲慢地蔑视这种伎俩。或者，说得更直白一点，如果他们发现私人在讨价还价中利用了这种欺诈和欺骗，并且会欣然地说他们应该被绞死。

‘By this means it is that all sort of justice passes in the world for a low-spirited and vulgar virtue, far below the dignity of royal greatness—or at least there are set up two sorts of justice; the one is mean and creeps on the ground, and, therefore, becomes none but the lower part of mankind, and so must be kept in severely by many restraints, that it may not break out beyond the bounds that are set to it; the other is the peculiar virtue of princes, which, as it is more majestic than that which becomes the rabble, so takes a freer compass, and thus lawful and unlawful are only measured by pleasure and interest. These practices of the princes that lie about Utopia, who make so little account of their faith, seem to be the reasons that determine them to engage in no confederacy. Perhaps they would change their mind if they lived among us; but yet, though treaties were more religiously observed, they would still dislike the custom of making them, since the world has taken up a false maxim upon it, as if there were no tie of nature uniting one nation to another, only separated perhaps by a mountain or a river, and that all were born in a state of hostility, and so might lawfully do all that mischief to their neighbours against which there is no provision made by treaties; and that when treaties are made they do not cut off the enmity or restrain the licence of preying upon each other, if, by the unskilfulness of wording them, there are not effectual provisoes made against them; they, on the other hand, judge that no man is to be esteemed our enemy that has never injured us, and that the partnership of human nature is instead of a league; and that kindness and good nature unite men more effectually and with greater strength than any agreements whatsoever, since thereby the engagements of men’s hearts become stronger than the bond and obligation of words.
“这样一来，世间的一切正义都被视为低俗庸俗的德行，远低于王权的尊严——或者至少设立了两种正义；一个人是卑鄙的，在地上爬行，因此，他只不过是人类的下层部分，因此必须受到许多限制的严格限制，以免他超出了设定的范围。其二是君主特有的美德，因为它比成为暴民的德性更加威严，所以采取更自由的方针，因此合法与非法只能用快乐和利益来衡量。那些对乌托邦撒谎的诸侯们的这些做法，他们很少考虑自己的信仰，似乎是决定他们不参与联盟的原因。 如果他们生活在我们中间，也许他们会改变主意；然而，尽管条约得到了更加虔诚的遵守，但他们仍然不喜欢制定条约的习俗，因为世界在条约上采用了一条错误的格言，好像一个国家与另一个国家之间没有任何自然纽带，也许只是通过一座山或一条河，所有人都生来就处于敌对状态，因此可以合法地对其邻居进行所有没有条约规定的危害；当条约签订时，如果由于措辞不巧妙而没有针对条约制定有效的条款，那么条约并不能消除敌意，也不能限制相互掠夺的许可；另一方面，他们认为，没有人会被视为从未伤害过我们的敌人，人性的伙伴关系而不是联盟；仁慈和善良的本性比任何协议都更有效、更有力量地将人们团结在一起，因为由此，人们内心的承诺变得比言语的纽带和义务更强大。

OF THEIR MILITARY DISCIPLINE
他们的军事纪律

They detest war as a very brutal thing, and which, to the reproach of human nature, is more practised by men than by any sort of beasts. They, in opposition to the sentiments of almost all other nations, think that there is nothing more inglorious than that glory that is gained by war; and therefore, though they accustom themselves daily to military exercises and the discipline of war, in which not only their men, but their women likewise, are trained up, that, in cases of necessity, they may not be quite useless, yet they do not rashly engage in war, unless it be either to defend themselves or their friends from any unjust aggressors, or, out of good nature or in compassion, assist an oppressed nation in shaking off the yoke of tyranny. They, indeed, help their friends not only in defensive but also in offensive wars; but they never do that unless they had been consulted before the breach was made, and, being satisfied with the grounds on which they went, they had found that all demands of reparation were rejected, so that a war was unavoidable. This they think to be not only just when one neighbour makes an inroad on another by public order, and carries away the spoils, but when the merchants of one country are oppressed in another, either under pretence of some unjust laws, or by the perverse wresting of good ones. This they count a juster cause of war than the other, because those injuries are done under some colour of laws. This was the only ground of that war in which they engaged with the Nephelogetes against the Aleopolitanes, a little before our time; for the merchants of the former having, as they thought, met with great injustice among the latter, which (whether it was in itself right or wrong) drew on a terrible war, in which many of their neighbours were engaged; and their keenness in carrying it on being supported by their strength in maintaining it, it not only shook some very flourishing states and very much afflicted others, but, after a series of much mischief ended in the entire conquest and slavery of the Aleopolitanes, who, though before the war they were in all respects much superior to the Nephelogetes, were yet subdued; but, though the Utopians had assisted them in the war, yet they pretended to no share of the spoil
他们厌恶战争，认为战争是一件非常残酷的事情，而对人性来说，战争更多的是由人类而不是任何野兽进行的。他们与几乎所有其他国家的观点相反，认为没有什么比通过战争获得的荣耀更不光彩的了。因此，尽管他们每天都习惯于军事演习和战争纪律，不仅他们的男人，而且他们的女人也同样接受训练，以便在必要的情况下，他们可能不会毫无用处，但他们确实不要鲁莽地卷入战争，除非是为了保护自己或朋友免受不公正的侵略者的侵害，或者出于善良或同情心，帮助被压迫民族摆脱暴政的枷锁。事实上，他们不仅在防御战争中帮助朋友，而且在进攻战争中也帮助朋友。但他们绝不会这样做，除非在违约发生之前征求过他们的意见，并且对他们提出的理由感到满意，他们发现所有赔偿要求都被拒绝，因此战争是不可避免的。他们认为，这不仅是当一个邻国以公共秩序侵犯另一国并夺走战利品时，而且是当一个国家的商人在另一国受到压迫时，或者是在一些不公正的法律的借口下，或者是在不正当的行为之下。争夺好人。他们认为这是比其他战争更公正的原因，因为这些伤害是在某种法律的保护下造成的。这是他们与涅斐洛盖特人对抗阿利奥波利塔人的那场战争的唯一战场，这场战争发生在我们这个时代之前不久。因为前者的商人，正如他们所认为的，在后者中遇到了极大的不公正，这（无论其本身是对还是错）引发了一场可怕的战争，他们的许多邻居都卷入了这场战争。他们热衷于将其延续下去，并以他们维持它的力量为后盾，它不仅动摇了一些非常繁荣的国家，也使其他国家深受其害，而且，在一系列的祸害之后，阿利奥波利塔人的整个征服和奴役结束了。尽管在战前他们在各方面都比涅斐罗盖特人优越得多，但仍然受到了压制。但是，尽管乌托邦人在战争中帮助了他们，但他们却假装没有分享战利品

‘But, though they so vigorously assist their friends in obtaining reparation for the injuries they have received in affairs of this nature, yet, if any such frauds were committed against themselves, provided no violence was done to their persons, they would only, on their being refused satisfaction, forbear trading with such a people. This is not because they consider their neighbours more than their own citizens; but, since their neighbours trade every one upon his own stock, fraud is a more sensible injury to them than it is to the Utopians, among whom the public, in such a case, only suffers, as they expect no thing in return for the merchandise they export but that in which they so much abound, and is of little use to them, the loss does not much affect them. They think, therefore, it would be too severe to revenge a loss attended with so little inconvenience, either to their lives or their subsistence, with the death of many persons; but if any of their people are either killed or wounded wrongfully, whether it be done by public authority, or only by private men, as soon as they hear of it they send ambassadors, and demand that the guilty persons may be delivered up to them, and if that is denied, they declare war; but if it be complied with, the offenders are condemned either to death or slavery.
“但是，尽管他们如此积极地协助他们的朋友为他们在这种性质的事件中所受到的伤害获得赔偿，但是，如果任何此类欺诈行为是针对他们自己的，只要他们的人身没有遭受暴力，他们只会，他们被拒绝满足，禁止与这样的人进行交易。这并不是因为他们把邻居看得比自己的公民更重要；而是因为他们把邻居看得比自己的公民更重要。但是，由于他们的邻居都用自己的股票进行交易，因此欺诈对他们来说比对乌托邦人来说是一种更明显的伤害，在这种情况下，公众只会遭受损失，因为他们不期望从自己的股票中得到任何回报。他们出口的商品虽然丰富，但对他们来说用处不大，因此损失对他们影响不大。因此，他们认为，对他们的生命或生存造成的不便如此之少的损失进行报复，导致许多人死亡，太过严重了；但是，如果他们的任何人民被错误地杀害或伤害，无论是由公共当局还是私人所为，他们一听说此事，就会立即派出大使，要求将有罪的人交给他们，如果被拒绝，他们就会宣战；但如果遵守的话，罪犯要么被判处死刑，要么被奴役。

‘They would be both troubled and ashamed of a bloody victory over their enemies; and think it would be as foolish a purchase as to buy the most valuable goods at too high a rate. And in no victory do they glory so much as in that which is gained by dexterity and good conduct without bloodshed. In such cases they appoint public triumphs, and erect trophies to the honour of those who have succeeded; for then do they reckon that a man acts suitably to his nature, when he conquers his enemy in such a way as that no other creature but a man could be capable of, and that is by the strength of his understanding. Bears, lions, boars, wolves, and dogs, and all other animals, employ their bodily force one against another, in which, as many of them are superior to men, both in strength and fierceness, so they are all subdued by his reason and understanding.
“他们会因血腥战胜敌人而感到不安和羞愧；并认为这就像以过高的价格购买最有价值的商品一样愚蠢。他们最引以为傲的胜利莫过于通过机敏和良好行为而不流血而获得的胜利。在这种情况下，他们会公开授予胜利者称号，并为那些成功者树立奖杯。因为那时他们认为，当一个人以除了人之外没有其他生物能够做到的方式征服敌人时，即通过他的理解力的力量，他的行为就符合他的本性。熊、狮子、野猪、狼、狗以及所有其他动物，都利用自己的体力互相对抗，其中许多动物在力量和凶猛方面都优于人类，因此它们都被人类的理性所征服。和理解。

‘The only design of the Utopians in war is to obtain that by force which, if it had been granted them in time, would have prevented the war; or, if that cannot be done, to take so severe a revenge on those that have injured them that they may be terrified from doing the like for the time to come. By these ends they measure all their designs, and manage them so, that it is visible that the appetite of fame or vainglory does not work so much on there as a just care of their own security.
“乌托邦主义者在战争中的唯一计划是通过武力获得胜利，如果他们及时获得武力，他们本可以阻止战争；或者，如果做不到这一点，就对那些伤害过他们的人进行严厉的报复，以至于他们可能会害怕在未来的时间里不再做类似的事情。通过这些目的，他们衡量并管理他们的所有设计，因此可以看出，名誉或虚荣的欲望在这里并没有那么重要，而只是关心他们自己的安全。

‘As soon as they declare war, they take care to have a great many schedules, that are sealed with their common seal, affixed in the most conspicuous places of their enemies’ country. This is carried secretly, and done in many places all at once. In these they promise great rewards to such as shall kill the prince, and lesser in proportion to such as shall kill any other persons who are those on whom, next to the prince himself, they cast the chief balance of the war. And they double the sum to him that, instead of killing the person so marked out, shall take him alive, and put him in their hands. They offer not only indemnity, but rewards, to such of the persons themselves that are so marked, if they will act against their countrymen. By this means those that are named in their schedules become not only distrustful of their fellowcitizens, but are jealous of one another, and are much distracted by fear and danger; for it has often fallen out that many of them, and even the prince himself, have been betrayed, by those in whom they have trusted most; for the rewards that the Utopians offer are so immeasurably great, that there is no sort of crime to which men cannot be drawn by them. They consider the risk that those run who undertake such services, and offer a recompense proportioned to the danger—not only a vast deal of gold, but great revenues in lands, that lie among other nations that are their friends, where they may go and enjoy them very securely; and they observe the promises they make of their kind most religiously. They very much approve of this way of corrupting their enemies, though it appears to others to be base and cruel; but they look on it as a wise course, to make an end of what would be otherwise a long war, without so much as hazarding one battle to decide it. They think it likewise an act of mercy and love to mankind to prevent the great slaughter of those that must otherwise be killed in the progress of the war, both on their own side and on that of their enemies, by the death of a few that are most guilty; and that in so doing they are kind even to their enemies, and pity them no less than their own people, as knowing that the greater part of them do not engage in the war of their own accord, but are driven into it by the passions of their prince.
“他们一宣战，就会留有大量的时间表，盖上他们的公章，贴在敌人国家最显眼的地方。这是秘密进行的，并且在许多地方同时进行。他们在其中承诺，对杀死王子的人给予丰厚的奖励，对杀死王子本人的其他人则给予较小的奖励，而这些人是除了王子本人之外，他们在战争中发挥主要平衡作用的人。他们向他支付双倍的金额，而不是杀死如此标记的人，而是将他活捉，并将他交到他们手中。如果那些受到如此标记的人对自己的同胞采取行动，他们不仅会提供赔偿，还会给予奖励。通过这种方式，那些被列入日程表的人不仅不再信任自己的同胞，而且互相嫉妒，并且因恐惧和危险而分心。因为事实常常表明，他们中的许多人，甚至王子本人，都被他们最信任的人出卖了。因为乌托邦所提供的回报是如此巨大，以致于没有一种犯罪是人们不能被他们所吸引的。他们考虑到那些从事此类服务的人所面临的风险，并提供与危险成比例的报酬——不仅是大量黄金，而且是位于他们的朋友其他国家之间的土地上的巨额收入，他们可以去那里，非常安全地享受它们；他们最虔诚地遵守对同类做出的承诺。 他们非常赞成这种腐蚀敌人的方式，尽管在其他人看来这是卑鄙和残酷的；但他们认为这是一个明智的做法，可以结束一场漫长的战争，而不用冒险一场战斗来决定它。他们认为这同样是对人类的仁慈和爱的行为，以防止在战争的进程中对那些本来必须被杀害的人进行大屠杀，无论是他们自己还是敌人，因为少数人的死亡是最有罪的；在这样做的时候，他们甚至对他们的敌人也很仁慈，对他们的怜悯不亚于对自己人民的怜悯，因为他们知道，他们中的大多数人并不是自愿参加战争的，而是被激情驱使进入战争的。他们的王子。

‘If this method does not succeed with them, then they sow seeds of contention among their enemies, and animate the prince’s brother, or some of the nobility, to aspire to the crown. If they cannot disunite them by domestic broils, then they engage their neighbours against them, and make them set on foot some old pretensions, which are never wanting to princes when they have occasion for them. These they plentifully supply with money, though but very sparingly with any auxiliary troops; for they are so tender of their own people that they would not willingly exchange one of them, even with the prince of their enemies’ country.
如果这种方法对他们不起作用，那么他们就会在敌人之间播下争斗的种子，并煽动王子的兄弟或一些贵族去争夺王位。如果他们不能通过家庭纠纷来分裂他们，那么他们就会与邻国对抗，并让他们重新开始一些旧的自负，当他们有机会的时候，这些自命不凡的王子们永远不会想要他们。他们为这些部队提供充足的资金，但很少提供任何辅助部队。因为他们对自己的人民如此温柔，以至于他们不愿意交换其中一个人，即使是与敌国的王子。

‘But as they keep their gold and silver only for such an occasion, so, when that offers itself, they easily part with it; since it would be no convenience to them, though they should reserve nothing of it to themselves. For besides the wealth that they have among them at home, they have a vast treasure abroad; many nations round about them being deep in their debt: so that they hire soldiers from all places for carrying on their wars; but chiefly from the Zapolets, who live five hundred miles east of Utopia. They are a rude, wild, and fierce nation, who delight in the woods and rocks, among which they were born and bred up. They are hardened both against heat, cold, and labour, and know nothing of the delicacies of life. They do not apply themselves to agriculture, nor do they care either for their houses or their clothes: cattle is all that they look after; and for the greatest part they live either by hunting or upon rapine; and are made, as it were, only for war. They watch all opportunities of engaging in it, and very readily embrace such as are offered them. Great numbers of them will frequently go out, and offer themselves for a very low pay, to serve any that will employ them: they know none of the arts of life, but those that lead to the taking it away; they serve those that hire them, both with much courage and great fidelity; but will not engage to serve for any determined time, and agree upon such terms, that the next day they may go over to the enemies of those whom they serve if they offer them a greater encouragement; and will, perhaps, return to them the day after that upon a higher advance of their pay. There are few wars in which they make not a considerable part of the armies of both sides: so it often falls out that they who are related, and were hired in the same country, and so have lived long and familiarly together, forgetting both their relations and former friendship, kill one another upon no other consideration than that of being hired to it for a little money by princes of different interests; and such a regard have they for money that they are easily wrought on by the difference of one penny a day to change sides. So entirely does their avarice influence them; and yet this money, which they value so highly, is of little use to them; for what they purchase thus with their blood they quickly waste on luxury, which among them is but of a poor and miserable form.
“但是，由于他们只在这种情况下才保留金银，因此，当这种情况发生时，他们很容易就放弃了；因为这对他们来说并不方便，尽管他们不应该为自己保留任何东西。因为除了他们在国内拥有的财富之外，他们在国外也拥有巨大的财富。他们周围的许多国家都负债累累，所以他们从各地雇佣士兵来进行战争。但主要来自居住在乌托邦以东五百英里的萨波莱特人。他们是一个粗鲁、狂野、凶猛的民族，喜欢在森林和岩石中出生和长大。他们对炎热、寒冷和劳动都冷酷无情，对生活的美味一无所知。他们不致力于农业，也不关心他们的房屋和衣服：他们只看管牲畜；他们大部分靠狩猎或掠夺为生。可以说，它们只是为了战争而制造的。他们关注所有参与其中的机会，并且非常乐意接受所提供的机会。他们中的许多人会经常外出，以很低的工资为自己服务，为任何愿意雇用他们的人服务：他们不知道生活的艺术，只知道那些导致剥夺的艺术；他们以极大的勇气和极大的忠诚为雇用他们的人服务。但不会承诺在任何确定的时间内服役，并同意这样的条件：如果他们给予他们更大的鼓励，第二天他们就可以转向他们所服务的敌人的敌人；也许第二天就会以更高的预付款返回给他们。 很少有战争中，他们在双方军队中都占了相当大的比例：因此，人们经常会发现，他们有亲戚关系，在同一个国家受雇，因此长期和熟悉地生活在一起，忘记了他们的两个人。关系和以前的友谊，互相残杀，除了被不同利益的王子以一点钱雇用之外，没有其他考虑。他们对金钱的重视程度如此之高，以至于他们很容易因为每天一便士的差异而改变立场。因此，他们的贪婪完全影响了他们。然而，这些他们如此看重的金钱对他们来说却没有多大用处。因为他们用自己的鲜血买来的东西很快就浪费在奢侈上，而对他们来说，这种奢侈只是一种贫穷而悲惨的形式。

‘This nation serves the Utopians against all people whatsoever, for they pay higher than any other. The Utopians hold this for a maxim, that as they seek out the best sort of men for their own use at home, so they make use of this worst sort of men for the consumption of war; and therefore they hire them with the offers of vast rewards to expose themselves to all sorts of hazards, out of which the greater part never returns to claim their promises; yet they make them good most religiously to such as escape. This animates them to adventure again, whenever there is occasion for it; for the Utopians are not at all troubled how many of these happen to be killed, and reckon it a service done to mankind if they could be a means to deliver the world from such a lewd and vicious sort of people, that seem to have run together, as to the drain of human nature. Next to these, they are served in their wars with those upon whose account they undertake them, and with the auxiliary troops of their other friends, to whom they join a few of their own people, and send some man of eminent and approved virtue to command in chief. There are two sent with him, who, during his command, are but private men, but the first is to succeed him if he should happen to be either killed or taken; and, in case of the like misfortune to him, the third comes in his place; and thus they provide against all events, that such accidents as may befall their generals may not endanger their armies. When they draw out troops of their own people, they take such out of every city as freely offer themselves, for none are forced to go against their wills, since they think that if any man is pressed that wants courage, he will not only act faintly, but by his cowardice dishearten others. But if an invasion is made on their country, they make use of such men, if they have good bodies, though they are not brave; and either put them aboard their ships, or place them on the walls of their towns, that being so posted, they may find no opportunity of flying away; and thus either shame, the heat of action, or the impossibility of flying, bears down their cowardice; they often make a virtue of necessity, and behave themselves well, because nothing else is left them. But as they force no man to go into any foreign war against his will, so they do not hinder those women who are willing to go along with their husbands; on the contrary, they encourage and praise them, and they stand often next their husbands in the front of the army. They also place together those who are related, parents, and children, kindred, and those that are mutually allied, near one another; that those whom nature has inspired with the greatest zeal for assisting one another may be the nearest and readiest to do it; and it is matter of great reproach if husband or wife survive one another, or if a child survives his parent, and therefore when they come to be engaged in action, they continue to fight to the last man, if their enemies stand before them: and as they use all prudent methods to avoid the endangering their own men, and if it is possible let all the action and danger fall upon the troops that they hire, so if it becomes necessary for themselves to engage, they then charge with as much courage as they avoided it before with prudence: nor is it a fierce charge at first, but it increases by degrees; and as they continue in action, they grow more obstinate, and press harder upon the enemy, insomuch that they will much sooner die than give ground; for the certainty that their children will be well looked after when they are dead frees them from all that anxiety concerning them which often masters men of great courage; and thus they are animated by a noble and invincible resolution. Their skill in military affairs increases their courage: and the wise sentiments which, according to the laws of their country, are instilled into them in their education, give additional vigour to their minds: for as they do not undervalue life so as prodigally to throw it away, they are not so indecently fond of it as to preserve it by base and unbecoming methods. In the greatest heat of action the bravest of their youth, who have devoted themselves to that service, single out the general of their enemies, set on him either openly or by ambuscade; pursue him everywhere, and when spent and wearied out, are relieved by others, who never give over the pursuit, either attacking him with close weapons when they can get near him, or with those which wound at a distance, when others get in between them. So that, unless he secures himself by flight, they seldom fail at last to kill or to take him prisoner. When they have obtained a victory, they kill as few as possible, and are much more bent on taking many prisoners than on killing those that fly before them. Nor do they ever let their men so loose in the pursuit of their enemies as not to retain an entire body still in order; so that if they have been forced to engage the last of their battalions before they could gain the day, they will rather let their enemies all escape than pursue them when their own army is in disorder; remembering well what has often fallen out to themselves, that when the main body of their army has been quite defeated and broken, when their enemies, imagining the victory obtained, have let themselves loose into an irregular pursuit, a few of them that lay for a reserve, waiting a fit opportunity, have fallen on them in their chase, and when straggling in disorder, and apprehensive of no danger, but counting the day their own, have turned the whole action, and, wresting out of their hands a victory that seemed certain and undoubted, while the vanquished have suddenly become victorious.
“这个国家为乌托邦人服务，反对所有人，因为他们付出的代价比其他任何人都高。乌托邦主义者将此视为格言，即当他们寻找最好的人为自己在国内所用时，他们就会利用最差的人来消耗战争。因此，他们以巨额报酬聘用这些人，让自己面临各种危险，而其中大部分人再也没有回来兑现他们的承诺。然而，他们最虔诚地使他们变得善良，例如逃避。只要有机会，这就会激励他们再次冒险。因为乌托邦主义者根本不担心有多少这样的人被杀害，并且认为如果它们能够成为一种手段，将世界从如此淫荡和恶毒的人手中拯救出来，那就是对人类的一项贡献，这些人似乎已经跑了在一起，至于人性的流失。其次，他们在战争中与他们所代表的人以及他们其他朋友的辅助部队一起作战，他们加入了一些自己的人民，并派遣一些杰出的和认可的美德的人去参加他们的战争。总指挥。他派了两个人随行，在他指挥期间，他们只是普通人，但第一个是在他碰巧被杀或被俘时继承他的位置；如果他遇到同样的不幸，第三个就会接替他。因此，他们防范一切事件，以免发生在将军身上的意外事件危及他们的军队。当他们抽出自己人民的军队时，他们从每个城市中抽出自愿提供自己的军队，因为没有人被迫违背自己的意愿，因为他们认为，如果任何一个需要勇气的人受到压力，他不仅会采取行动微弱地，但他的怯懦使其他人灰心丧气。 但是，如果他们的国家遭到入侵，他们就会利用这样的人，只要他们身体好，尽管他们并不勇敢；要么把它们放在船上，要么把它们放在城镇的城墙上，这样它们就找不到逃跑的机会；因此，要么是羞耻感，要么是行动的热情，要么是无法飞行，压垮了他们的怯懦。他们常常出于必要而养成美德，并且表现得很好，因为他们已经没有别的东西了。但是，正如她们不会强迫男人违背自己的意愿去参加任何对外战争一样，她们也不会阻碍那些愿意与她们的丈夫并肩作战的妇女。相反，她们鼓励和赞扬她们，她们经常在军队前线站在她们的丈夫旁边。 他们还将有血缘关系的人、父母、子女、亲属以及相互结盟的人放在一起；那些受大自然启发而最热衷于互相帮助的人可能是最接近、最愿意这样做的人；如果丈夫或妻子彼此幸存，或者孩子比父母幸存，那么当他们开始行动时，如果他们的敌人站在他们面前，他们会继续战斗到最后一个人：由于他们使用一切谨慎的方法来避免危及自己的人员，并且如果可能的话，让所有的行动和危险都落在他们雇佣的部队身上，所以如果他们自己有必要交战，他们就会用尽可能多的力量冲锋勇气，正如他们以前谨慎地避免的那样：一开始也不是猛烈的冲锋，而是逐渐增加；当他们继续行动时，他们会变得更加顽固，对敌人的压力更大，以至于他们宁死不退缩。因为确信他们的孩子死后会得到很好的照顾，这使他们摆脱了对孩子的所有焦虑，这种焦虑常常困扰着勇敢的人。因此，他们被崇高而无敌的决心所激励。他们的军事技能增加了他们的勇气：根据他们国家的法律，在教育中灌输给他们的明智情感，给他们的思想带来了额外的活力：因为他们不会低估生命，从而挥霍无度。除去它，他们不会如此不雅地喜欢它，而是用卑鄙和不恰当的方法来保存它。 在最激烈的行动中，他们献身于这项服务的最勇敢的年轻人，挑出了敌人的将军，要么公开要么伏击他；到处追击他，当他筋疲力尽时，他会得到其他人的帮助，他们从不放弃追击，要么在可以接近他的时候用近战武器攻击他，要么在别人介入时用远距离的武器攻击他。他们。因此，除非他逃跑以确保自己安全，否则他们最终很少会杀死或俘虏他。当他们取得胜利时，他们会尽可能少地杀戮，并且更愿意俘获更多的俘虏，而不是杀死那些在他们之前飞行的人。他们也不会让自己的士兵在追击敌人时如此松懈，以至于无法保持整个身体完好无损。因此，如果他们在取得胜利之前被迫与最后一个营交战，他们宁愿让敌人全部逃跑，也不会在自己的军队混乱时追击他们。他们清楚地记得经常发生的事情，当他们的军队主力被彻底击败和溃散时，当他们的敌人想象着已经取得的胜利，开始进行不规则的追击时，他们中的一些人一支预备队，等待着一个合适的机会，在他们的追击中落在他们身上，当他们陷入混乱，没有担心任何危险时，但他们自己的日子，已经扭转了整个行动，并从他们手中夺取了胜利这似乎是确定无疑的，而战败者却突然变成了胜利者。

‘It is hard to tell whether they are more dexterous in laying or avoiding ambushes. They sometimes seem to fly when it is far from their thoughts; and when they intend to give ground, they do it so that it is very hard to find out their design. If they see they are ill posted, or are like to be overpowered by numbers, they then either march off in the night with great silence, or by some stratagem delude their enemies. If they retire in the day-time, they do it in such order that it is no less dangerous to fall upon them in a retreat than in a march. They fortify their camps with a deep and large trench; and throw up the earth that is dug out of it for a wall; nor do they employ only their slaves in this, but the whole army works at it, except those that are then upon the guard; so that when so many hands are at work, a great line and a strong fortification is finished in so short a time that it is scarce credible. Their armour is very strong for defence, and yet is not so heavy as to make them uneasy in their marches; they can even swim with it. All that are trained up to war practise swimming. Both horse and foot make great use of arrows, and are very expert. They have no swords, but fight with a pole-axe that is both sharp and heavy, by which they thrust or strike down an enemy. They are very good at finding out warlike machines, and disguise them so well that the enemy does not perceive them till he feels the use of them; so that he cannot prepare such a defence as would render them useless; the chief consideration had in the making them is that they may be easily carried and managed.
“很难说他们在埋伏方面更灵巧还是在躲避伏击方面更灵巧。有时，当事情远离他们的想法时，他们似乎在飞翔；当他们打算让步时，他们就会这样做，这样就很难发现他们的设计。如果他们发现自己位置不佳，或者可能会被人数压倒，那么他们要么在夜色中悄然离去，要么用某种策略迷惑敌人。如果他们在白天撤退，他们会按照这样的顺序撤退，以至于在撤退中被袭击的危险并不比在行军中被袭击更危险。他们用又深又大的战壕来加固自己的营地。并把挖出来的土堆起来修墙；他们也不仅仅雇用他们的奴隶来做这件事，而是整个军队都在做这件事，除了那些当时负责守卫的人之外。因此，在如此多的人手工作的情况下，一条伟大的防线和坚固的防御工事在如此短的时间内就完成了，这几乎令人难以置信。他们的盔甲非常坚固，可以防御，但又不会重到让他们在行军中感到不安。他们甚至可以带着它游泳。所有受过战争训练的人都在练习游泳。马和足都善用箭，而且都很熟练。他们没有剑，但使用又锋利又重的长柄斧进行战斗，用它刺击或击倒敌人。他们非常擅长发现战争机器，并且将它们伪装得非常好，以至于敌人在感觉到它们的用途之前不会察觉它们；这样他就无法准备使他们毫无用处的防御；制作它们的主要考虑因素是它们易于携带和管理。

‘If they agree to a truce, they observe it so religiously that no provocations will make them break it. They never lay their enemies’ country waste nor burn their corn, and even in their marches they take all possible care that neither horse nor foot may tread it down, for they do not know but that they may have use for it themselves. They hurt no man whom they find disarmed, unless he is a spy. When a town is surrendered to them, they take it into their protection; and when they carry a place by storm they never plunder it, but put those only to the sword that oppose the rendering of it up, and make the rest of the garrison slaves, but for the other inhabitants, they do them no hurt; and if any of them had advised a surrender, they give them good rewards out of the estates of those that they condemn, and distribute the rest among their auxiliary troops, but they themselves take no share of the spoil.
“如果他们同意停战，他们就会非常虔诚地遵守，任何挑衅都不会让他们打破它。他们从不荒废敌人的土地，也不烧毁他们的谷物，即使在行军中，他们也尽可能小心，不让马或脚踩踏它，因为他们不知道他们自己可能会用它。他们不会伤害那些没有武装的人，除非他是间谍。当一座城镇被交给他们时，他们就会将其纳入保护范围；当他们用风暴占领一个地方时，他们从不掠夺它，而只会用刀剑杀死那些反对占领该地的人，并让其余的驻军成为奴隶，但对于其他居民，他们不会伤害他们。如果他们中有人建议投降，他们就会从他们谴责的人的财产中给予他们丰厚的奖励，并将其余的分配给他们的辅助部队，但他们自己不分享战利品。

‘When a war is ended, they do not oblige their friends to reimburse their expenses; but they obtain them of the conquered, either in money, which they keep for the next occasion, or in lands, out of which a constant revenue is to be paid them; by many increases the revenue which they draw out from several countries on such occasions is now risen to above 700,000 ducats a year. They send some of their own people to receive these revenues, who have orders to live magnificently and like princes, by which means they consume much of it upon the place; and either bring over the rest to Utopia or lend it to that nation in which it lies. This they most commonly do, unless some great occasion, which falls out but very seldom, should oblige them to call for it all. It is out of these lands that they assign rewards to such as they encourage to adventure on desperate attempts. If any prince that engages in war with them is making preparations for invading their country, they prevent him, and make his country the seat of the war; for they do not willingly suffer any war to break in upon their island; and if that should happen, they would only defend themselves by their own people; but would not call for auxiliary troops to their assistance.
“战争结束后，他们不会强迫朋友报销费用；但他们从被征服者那里获得的，要么是金钱，以便下次使用，要么是土地，他们可以从中获得源源不断的收入。通过许多增加，他们在这种情况下从几个国家提取的收入现已上升到每年700,000杜卡特以上。他们派遣一些自己的人民来接收这些收入，这些人奉命过着富丽堂皇的生活，像王子一样，通过这种方式，他们在这个地方消耗了大部分收入；要么把剩下的带到乌托邦，要么借给它所在的国家。他们最常这样做，除非有什么重大场合（这种情况很少发生）迫使他们要求全部这样做。他们在这些土地上给予奖励，鼓励他们进行绝望的冒险。如果有哪个君主与他们交战，准备入侵他们的国家，他们就会阻止他，并以他的国家为战地；因为他们不愿意遭受任何战争侵入他们的岛屿。如果发生这种情况，他们只会用自己的人民来保卫自己；但不会要求辅助部队协助他们。

OF THE RELIGIONS OF THE UTOPIANS
乌托邦宗教

‘There are several sorts of religions, not only in different parts of the island, but even in every town; some worshipping the sun, others the moon or one of the planets. Some worship such men as have been eminent in former times for virtue or glory, not only as ordinary deities, but as the supreme god. Yet the greater and wiser sort of them worship none of these, but adore one eternal, invisible, infinite, and incomprehensible Deity; as a Being that is far above all our apprehensions, that is spread over the whole universe, not by His bulk, but by His power and virtue; Him they call the Father of All, and acknowledge that the beginnings, the increase, the progress, the vicissitudes, and the end of all things come only from Him; nor do they offer divine honours to any but to Him alone. And, indeed, though they differ concerning other things, yet all agree in this: that they think there is one Supreme Being that made and governs the world, whom they call, in the language of their country, Mithras. They differ in this: that one thinks the god whom he worships is this Supreme Being, and another thinks that his idol is that god; but they all agree in one principle, that whoever is this Supreme Being, He is also that great essence to whose glory and majesty all honours are ascribed by the consent of all nations.
“不仅岛上的不同地区，甚至每个城镇都有多种宗教；有些人崇拜太阳，有些人崇拜月亮或其中一颗行星。有些人崇拜那些在过去因美德或荣耀而杰出的人，不仅将其视为普通的神灵，而且将其视为至高无上的神。然而，他们中更伟大、更聪明的一类人并不崇拜这些神，而是崇拜一位永恒的、看不见的、无限的、不可理解的神。作为一个远远超出我们所有理解的存在，它遍布整个宇宙，不是因为他的体积，而是因为他的力量和美德；他们称他为万有之父，并承认万物的开始、增长、进步、变迁和终结都只来自于他。除了他之外，他们也不向任何人提供神圣的荣誉。事实上，尽管他们在其他事情上存在分歧，但在这一点上大家都同意：他们认为有一位至高无上的存在创造并统治着世界，他们用自己国家的语言称他为密特拉。他们的区别在于：一个人认为他所崇拜的神就是这位至高无上的神，而另一个人则认为他所崇拜的神就是那位神。但他们都同意一个原则，即无论这位至高无上的存在是谁，他也是那位伟大的本质，所有的荣耀和威严都被所有国家的同意归于他的荣耀和威严。

‘By degrees they fall off from the various superstitions that are among them, and grow up to that one religion that is the best and most in request; and there is no doubt to be made, but that all the others had vanished long ago, if some of those who advised them to lay aside their superstitions had not met with some unhappy accidents, which, being considered as inflicted by heaven, made them afraid that the god whose worship had like to have been abandoned had interposed and revenged themselves on those who despised their authority.
“他们逐渐摆脱了各种迷信，并成长为一种最好、最受欢迎的宗教；毫无疑问，如果那些建议他们放弃迷信的人中有些人没有遇到一些不愉快的事故，那么所有其他人早就消失了，这些事故被认为是上天所造成的，使他们担心那些本来想被放弃的崇拜的神会介入并对那些蔑视他们权威的人进行报复。

‘After they had heard from us an account of the doctrine, the course of life, and the miracles of Christ, and of the wonderful constancy of so many martyrs, whose blood, so willingly offered up by them, was the chief occasion of spreading their religion over a vast number of nations, it is not to be imagined how inclined they were to receive it. I shall not determine whether this proceeded from any secret inspiration of God, or whether it was because it seemed so favourable to that community of goods, which is an opinion so particular as well as so dear to them; since they perceived that Christ and His followers lived by that rule, and that it was still kept up in some communities among the sincerest sort of Christians. From whichsoever of these motives it might be, true it is, that many of them came over to our religion, and were initiated into it by baptism. But as two of our number were dead, so none of the four that survived were in priests’ orders, we, therefore, could only baptise them, so that, to our great regret, they could not partake of the other sacraments, that can only be administered by priests, but they are instructed concerning them and long most vehemently for them. They have had great disputes among themselves, whether one chosen by them to be a priest would not be thereby qualified to do all the things that belong to that character, even though he had no authority derived from the Pope, and they seemed to be resolved to choose some for that employment, but they had not done it when I left them.
在他们听了我们讲述基督的教义、生命历程和奇迹，以及许多殉道者的奇妙坚忍之后，他们如此心甘情愿地献出鲜血，这是传播福音的主要机会。他们的宗教遍布许多国家，无法想象他们有多愿意接受它。我无法确定这是否来自上帝的任何秘密灵感，或者是否因为它似乎对商品共同体如此有利，这是一种对他们来说如此特殊和如此珍贵的观点；因为他们认识到基督和他的追随者都遵循这一规则，并且在一些最真诚的基督徒群体中仍然保留着这一规则。确实，无论出于何种动机，他们中的许多人都皈依了我们的宗教，并通过洗礼加入了它。但由于我们中有两人死亡，所以幸存的四人中没有一个是按照牧师的命令，因此我们只能为他们施洗，因此，令我们深感遗憾的是，他们无法参加其他圣礼，只能由牧师来管理，但他们得到有关这些的指示，并且最强烈地渴望它们。他们之间曾发生过很大的争论，认为被他们选为牧师的人是否有资格做属于该角色的所有事情，即使他没有从教皇那里获得的权力，而且他们似乎已经解决了选择一些人来做这项工作，但当我离开他们时他们还没有这样做。

‘Those among them that have not received our religion do not fright any from it, and use none ill that goes over to it, so that all the while I was there one man was only punished on this occasion. He being newly baptised did, notwithstanding all that we could say to the contrary, dispute publicly concerning the Christian religion, with more zeal than discretion, and with so much heat, that he not only preferred our worship to theirs, but condemned all their rites as profane, and cried out against all that adhered to them as impious and sacrilegious persons, that were to be damned to everlasting burnings. Upon his having frequently preached in this manner he was seized, and after trial he was condemned to banishment, not for having disparaged their religion, but for his inflaming the people to sedition; for this is one of their most ancient laws, that no man ought to be punished for his religion. At the first constitution of their government, Utopus having understood that before his coming among them the old inhabitants had been engaged in great quarrels concerning religion, by which they were so divided among themselves, that he found it an easy thing to conquer them, since, instead of uniting their forces against him, every different party in religion fought by themselves. After he had subdued them he made a law that every man might be of what religion he pleased, and might endeavour to draw others to it by the force of argument and by amicable and modest ways, but without bitterness against those of other opinions; but that he ought to use no other force but that of persuasion, and was neither to mix with it reproaches nor violence; and such as did otherwise were to be condemned to banishment or slavery.
‘他们当中那些没有接受我们宗教的人不会吓唬任何人，也不会使用任何会导致我们宗教的恶行，所以我在那里的时候，只有一个人在这一次受到了惩罚。尽管我们可以说相反的话，他刚刚受洗，却公开争论基督教，他的热情超过了谨慎，而且非常激烈，以至于他不仅更喜欢我们的崇拜而不是他们的崇拜，而且谴责他们所有的仪式为亵渎，并大声疾呼所有追随他们的人都是不虔诚和亵渎的人，他们将受到永远的焚烧。由于他经常以这种方式传教，他被逮捕了，经过审判后，他被判处流放，不是因为贬低他们的宗教，而是因为他煽动人民煽动叛乱。因为这是他们最古老的法律之一，即任何人都不应因其宗教信仰而受到惩罚。在他们政府的第一部宪法中，乌托普斯明白，在他来到他们中间之前，老居民们已经在宗教问题上发生了巨大的争吵，他们因此而分裂，他发现征服他们是一件容易的事，因为宗教中的各个不同派别并没有联合起来反对他，而是各自为战。在他征服了他们之后，他制定了一项法律，规定每个人都可以信奉自己喜欢的宗教，并可以通过论证的力量以及友好和谦虚的方式努力吸引其他人加入该宗教，但不要对其他观点怀有怨恨。但除了劝说之外，他不应该使用其他力量，也不应将责备或暴力与它混在一起；不这样做的人将被判处流放或奴役。

‘This law was made by Utopus, not only for preserving the public peace, which he saw suffered much by daily contentions and irreconcilable heats, but because he thought the interest of religion itself required it. He judged it not fit to determine anything rashly; and seemed to doubt whether those different forms of religion might not all come from God, who might inspire man in a different manner, and be pleased with this variety; he therefore thought it indecent and foolish for any man to threaten and terrify another to make him believe what did not appear to him to be true. And supposing that only one religion was really true, and the rest false, he imagined that the native force of truth would at last break forth and shine bright, if supported only by the strength of argument, and attended to with a gentle and unprejudiced mind; while, on the other hand, if such debates were carried on with violence and tumults, as the most wicked are always the most obstinate, so the best and most holy religion might be choked with superstition, as corn is with briars and thorns; he therefore left men wholly to their liberty, that they might be free to believe as they should see cause; only he made a solemn and severe law against such as should so far degenerate from the dignity of human nature, as to think that our souls died with our bodies, or that the world was governed by chance, without a wise overruling Providence: for they all formerly believed that there was a state of rewards and punishments to the good and bad after this life; and they now look on those that think otherwise as scarce fit to be counted men, since they degrade so noble a being as the soul, and reckon it no better than a beast’s: thus they are far from looking on such men as fit for human society, or to be citizens of a well-ordered commonwealth; since a man of such principles must needs, as oft as he dares do it, despise all their laws and customs: for there is no doubt to be made, that a man who is afraid of nothing but the law, and apprehends nothing after death, will not scruple to break through all the laws of his country, either by fraud or force, when by this means he may satisfy his appetites. They never raise any that hold these maxims, either to honours or offices, nor employ them in any public trust, but despise them, as men of base and sordid minds. Yet they do not punish them, because they lay this down as a maxim, that a man cannot make himself believe anything he pleases; nor do they drive any to dissemble their thoughts by threatenings, so that men are not tempted to lie or disguise their opinions; which being a sort of fraud, is abhorred by the Utopians: they take care indeed to prevent their disputing in defence of these opinions, especially before the common people: but they suffer, and even encourage them to dispute concerning them in private with their priest, and other grave men, being confident that they will be cured of those mad opinions by having reason laid before them. There are many among them that run far to the other extreme, though it is neither thought an ill nor unreasonable opinion, and therefore is not at all discouraged. They think that the souls of beasts are immortal, though far inferior to the dignity of the human soul, and not capable of so great a happiness. They are almost all of them very firmly persuaded that good men will be infinitely happy in another state: so that though they are compassionate to all that are sick, yet they lament no man’s death, except they see him loath to part with life; for they look on this as a very ill presage, as if the soul, conscious to itself of guilt, and quite hopeless, was afraid to leave the body, from some secret hints of approaching misery. They think that such a man’s appearance before God cannot be acceptable to Him, who being called on, does not go out cheerfully, but is backward and unwilling, and is as it were dragged to it. They are struck with horror when they see any die in this manner, and carry them out in silence and with sorrow, and praying God that He would be merciful to the errors of the departed soul, they lay the body in the ground: but when any die cheerfully, and full of hope, they do not mourn for them, but sing hymns when they carry out their bodies, and commending their souls very earnestly to God: their whole behaviour is then rather grave than sad, they burn the body, and set up a pillar where the pile was made, with an inscription to the honour of the deceased. When they come from the funeral, they discourse of his good life, and worthy actions, but speak of nothing oftener and with more pleasure than of his serenity at the hour of death. They think such respect paid to the memory of good men is both the greatest incitement to engage others to follow their example, and the most acceptable worship that can be offered them; for they believe that though by the imperfection of human sight they are invisible to us, yet they are present among us, and hear those discourses that pass concerning themselves. They believe it inconsistent with the happiness of departed souls not to be at liberty to be where they will: and do not imagine them capable of the ingratitude of not desiring to see those friends with whom they lived on earth in the strictest bonds of love and kindness: besides, they are persuaded that good men, after death, have these affections; and all other good dispositions increased rather than diminished, and therefore conclude that they are still among the living, and observe all they say or do. From hence they engage in all their affairs with the greater confidence of success, as trusting to their protection; while this opinion of the presence of their ancestors is a restraint that prevents their engaging in ill designs.
“乌托普斯制定这项法律，不仅是为了维护公共和平，因为他看到公共和平因日常争吵和不可调和的热火而受到很大损害，而且因为他认为宗教本身的利益需要它。他认为不宜草率决定任何事情；似乎怀疑这些不同形式的宗教是否都来自上帝，上帝可能以不同的方式启发人类，并对这种多样性感到满意；因此，他认为任何人威胁和恐吓他人，让他相信他认为不真实的事情，都是不雅和愚蠢的。 假设只有一种宗教是真正真实的，而其他宗教都是虚假的，他想象，如果仅靠论证的力量来支持，并以温和和不带偏见的思想来对待，真理的本源力量最终会爆发并闪耀光芒。 ;另一方面，如果这种辩论是在暴力和骚乱中进行的，因为最邪恶的人总是最顽固的，那么最好和最神圣的宗教可能会被迷信所窒息，就像谷物被荆棘和荆棘所窒息一样。因此，他让人们完全自由，以便他们可以自由地相信他们应该看到的理由。只是他制定了一项庄严而严厉的法律，反对那些迄今为止从人性尊严上堕落的人，认为我们的灵魂与我们的身体一起死亡，或者认为世界是由偶然统治的，没有明智的否决天意：因为他们以前都相信来世有善恶有赏有罚的状态。现在，他们认为那些有其他想法的人几乎不配被算作人，因为他们贬低了灵魂这样高贵的存在，认为它不比野兽更好：因此，他们远不认为这样的人适合人类。社会，或成为秩序良好的联邦的公民；因为一个有这种原则的人必须经常蔑视他们所有的法律和习俗：因为毫无疑问，一个人除了法律之外什么都不害怕，死后什么也不懂。当他可以通过这种方式满足自己的欲望时，他会不惜通过欺诈或武力来破坏他国家的所有法律。他们从不提拔任何遵守这些格言的人，无论是荣誉还是职位，也不雇用他们接受任何公众信任，而是鄙视他们，将他们视为卑鄙肮脏的人。 然而他们并没有惩罚他们，因为他们把这作为一条格言，即一个人不能让自己相信任何他喜欢的东西；他们也不会通过威胁迫使任何人隐瞒他们的想法，这样人们就不会受到诱惑去撒谎或掩饰他们的观点。这是一种欺诈行为，为乌托邦主义者所憎恶：他们确实注意防止他们为捍卫这些观点而进行争论，特别是在普通民众面前：但他们遭受痛苦，甚至鼓励他们私下与他们的牧师就这些观点进行争论和其他严肃的人，他们相信，通过摆在他们面前的理由，他们将摆脱那些疯狂的观点。其中有许多人远远走向了另一个极端，尽管这种观点既不被认为是恶意的，也不被认为是不合理的，因此我们根本不气馁。他们认为野兽的灵魂是不朽的，虽然其尊严远远低于人类灵魂，也无法获得如此巨大的幸福。他们几乎所有人都非常坚信，好人在另一种状态下会得到无限的幸福：因此，尽管他们对所有病人充满同情，但他们不会为任何人的死亡而悲伤，除非他们看到他不愿放弃生命；因为他们认为这是一个非常不祥的预兆，仿佛灵魂意识到自己有罪，而且非常绝望，害怕离开身体，因为有一些即将到来的痛苦的秘密暗示。他们认为这样的人在神面前的表现是不能蒙神悦纳的，他被呼召时并不高兴出去，而是退后、不甘心，就像是被拖着走的。 当他们看到任何人以这种方式死去时，他们都会感到恐惧，并在沉默和悲伤中将他们带走，并祈祷上帝怜悯已故灵魂的错误，他们将尸体埋在地下：但是当任何人都高高兴兴地死去，充满希望，他们不会为他们哀悼，而是在他们搬出尸体时唱赞美诗，并非常认真地将他们的灵魂交托给上帝：他们的整个行为是严肃的，而不是悲伤的，他们烧毁了尸体，并在堆放的地方立起一根柱子，上面刻有纪念死者的铭文。当他们从葬礼上回来时，他们谈论他美好的生活和有价值的行为，但没有什么比谈论他在死亡时的平静更常见和更愉快的了。他们认为，对好人的纪念既是对他人效仿他们榜样的最大激励，也是对他们最可接受的崇拜。因为他们相信，虽然由于人类视觉的不完美，我们看不见他们，但他们却存在于我们中间，并且听到了那些关于他们自己的话语。他们认为，不能自由地去他们想去的地方，这与已故灵魂的幸福是不一致的：并且不认为他们会忘恩负义，不愿意见到那些与他们在地球上以最严格的爱和联系生活在一起的朋友。仁慈：此外，他们相信好人死后都会有这些感情。所有其他良好的性情都增加而不是减少，因此得出结论，他们仍然活着，并观察他们的一切所说或所做的一切。 从那时起，他们在从事所有事务时都对成功充满信心，相信他们的保护。而这种对他们祖先存在的看法是一种限制，可以防止他们从事不良计划。

‘They despise and laugh at auguries, and the other vain and superstitious ways of divination, so much observed among other nations; but have great reverence for such miracles as cannot flow from any of the powers of nature, and look on them as effects and indications of the presence of the Supreme Being, of which they say many instances have occurred among them; and that sometimes their public prayers, which upon great and dangerous occasions they have solemnly put up to God, with assured confidence of being heard, have been answered in a miraculous manner.
“他们鄙视并嘲笑占卜以及其他徒劳而迷信的占卜方式，这些在其他民族中屡见不鲜；但对那些无法从任何自然力量中产生的奇迹怀有极大的敬意，并将它们视为至高无上者存在的效果和迹象，他们说这样的例子在他们中间发生过很多；有时，他们在重大而危险的时刻向上帝庄严地作出公开祈祷，并确信上帝会垂听他们的祈祷，而这些祈祷却奇迹般地得到了回应。

‘They think the contemplating God in His works, and the adoring Him for them, is a very acceptable piece of worship to Him.
“他们认为，在上帝的作品中沉思上帝，为他们崇拜上帝，是对上帝非常可接受的崇拜。

‘There are many among them that upon a motive of religion neglect learning, and apply themselves to no sort of study; nor do they allow themselves any leisure time, but are perpetually employed, believing that by the good things that a man does he secures to himself that happiness that comes after death. Some of these visit the sick; others mend highways, cleanse ditches, repair bridges, or dig turf, gravel, or stone. Others fell and cleave timber, and bring wood, corn, and other necessaries, on carts, into their towns; nor do these only serve the public, but they serve even private men, more than the slaves themselves do: for if there is anywhere a rough, hard, and sordid piece of work to be done, from which many are frightened by the labour and loathsomeness of it, if not the despair of accomplishing it, they cheerfully, and of their own accord, take that to their share; and by that means, as they ease others very much, so they afflict themselves, and spend their whole life in hard labour: and yet they do not value themselves upon this, nor lessen other people’s credit to raise their own; but by their stooping to such servile employments they are so far from being despised, that they are so much the more esteemed by the whole nation.
“他们中有许多人出于宗教的动机而忽视学习，不致力于任何学习；他们也不给自己任何闲暇时间，而是永远忙碌着，相信一个人只要做好事，就能确保死后的幸福。其中一些人去看望病人；另一些人则看望病人。其他人则修补高速公路、清理沟渠、修复桥梁或挖掘草皮、砾石或石头。其他人则砍倒并劈开木材，然后用手推车将木材、玉米和其他必需品运入他们的城镇。这些人不仅为公众服务，而且甚至为私人服务，比奴隶本身还要多：因为如果有任何地方需要做一项粗暴、辛苦和肮脏的工作，许多人就会被这种劳动和恐惧所吓倒。即使不是对实现它的绝望，他们也感到厌恶，但他们却高兴地、自愿地把它分享为自己的一份。这样一来，他们既让别人方便，也让自己痛苦，一生都在辛苦劳作中度过，但他们并不以此为重，也不贬低别人的信用来提高自己的信用。但由于他们屈尊从事这种奴性的工作，他们不但没有受到鄙视，反而更受到全国人民的尊敬。

‘Of these there are two sorts: some live unmarried and chaste, and abstain from eating any sort of flesh; and thus weaning themselves from all the pleasures of the present life, which they account hurtful, they pursue, even by the hardest and painfullest methods possible, that blessedness which they hope for hereafter; and the nearer they approach to it, they are the more cheerful and earnest in their endeavours after it. Another sort of them is less willing to put themselves to much toil, and therefore prefer a married state to a single one; and as they do not deny themselves the pleasure of it, so they think the begetting of children is a debt which they owe to human nature, and to their country; nor do they avoid any pleasure that does not hinder labour; and therefore eat flesh so much the more willingly, as they find that by this means they are the more able to work: the Utopians look upon these as the wiser sect, but they esteem the others as the most holy. They would indeed laugh at any man who, from the principles of reason, would prefer an unmarried state to a married, or a life of labour to an easy life: but they reverence and admire such as do it from the motives of religion. There is nothing in which they are more cautious than in giving their opinion positively concerning any sort of religion. The men that lead those severe lives are called in the language of their country Brutheskas, which answers to those we call Religious Orders.
‘其中有两类：一些人未婚，贞洁，不吃任何肉类；一些人未婚，保持贞洁，不吃任何肉类；因此，他们放弃了今生的一切快乐（他们认为这些快乐是有害的），甚至通过最艰难和最痛苦的方法来追求他们所希望的来世的幸福。他们越接近它，他们就越高兴，越热衷于追求它。另一种人不太愿意让自己劳累，因此更喜欢结婚而不是单身。由于他们不否认自己享受生育的乐趣，所以他们认为生儿育女是他们对人性和国家的债务。他们也不回避任何不妨碍劳动的快乐。因此，他们更愿意吃肉，因为他们发现通过这种方式，他们更有能力工作：乌托邦主义者认为这些教派是更明智的教派，但他们认为其他教派是最神圣的。他们确实会嘲笑任何从理性原则上宁愿未婚而不是已婚、或者劳动生活而不是安逸生活的人：但他们尊重和钦佩那些出于宗教动机而这样做的人。没有什么比他们对任何宗教给出积极的看法更谨慎的了。那些过着艰苦生活的人在他们国家的语言中被称为“布鲁泰斯卡斯”（Brutheskas），这与我们所说的宗教秩序相呼应。

‘Their priests are men of eminent piety, and therefore they are but few, for there are only thirteen in every town, one for every temple; but when they go to war, seven of these go out with their forces, and seven others are chosen to supply their room in their absence; but these enter again upon their employments when they return; and those who served in their absence, attend upon the high priest, till vacancies fall by death; for there is one set over the rest. They are chosen by the people as the other magistrates are, by suffrages given in secret, for preventing of factions: and when they are chosen, they are consecrated by the college of priests. The care of all sacred things, the worship of God, and an inspection into the manners of the people, are committed to them. It is a reproach to a man to be sent for by any of them, or for them to speak to him in secret, for that always gives some suspicion: all that is incumbent on them is only to exhort and admonish the people; for the power of correcting and punishing ill men belongs wholly to the Prince, and to the other magistrates: the severest thing that the priest does is the excluding those that are desperately wicked from joining in their worship: there is not any sort of punishment more dreaded by them than this, for as it loads them with infamy, so it fills them with secret horrors, such is their reverence to their religion; nor will their bodies be long exempted from their share of trouble; for if they do not very quickly satisfy the priests of the truth of their repentance, they are seized on by the Senate, and punished for their impiety. The education of youth belongs to the priests, yet they do not take so much care of instructing them in letters, as in forming their minds and manners aright; they use all possible methods to infuse, very early, into the tender and flexible minds of children, such opinions as are both good in themselves and will be useful to their country, for when deep impressions of these things are made at that age, they follow men through the whole course of their lives, and conduce much to preserve the peace of the government, which suffers by nothing more than by vices that rise out of ill opinions. The wives of their priests are the most extraordinary women of the whole country; sometimes the women themselves are made priests, though that falls out but seldom, nor are any but ancient widows chosen into that order.
‘他们的祭司都是非常虔诚的人，因此人数很少，因为每个城镇只有十三名祭司，每座寺庙都有一名祭司；但当他们打仗时，其中七人会带着他们的部队出征，另外七人会被选中在他们缺席时补给他们的房间。但他们返回后又重新开始工作。那些在他们缺席期间任职的人则担任大祭司的职务，直到因死亡而出现空缺为止。因为有一组高于其余的。他们和其他行政长官一样，是由人民通过秘密选举选出的，以防止派别之争；当他们被选出时，他们将由神父团祝圣。所有神圣事物的照管、对上帝的崇拜以及对人们行为举止的检查，都由他们负责。一个人被他们中的任何一个人派去，或者他们秘密地与他谈话，都是一种耻辱，因为这总是会引起一些怀疑：他们的职责只是劝诫和警告人民；而他们的职责只是劝告和警告人民。因为纠正和惩罚病人的权力完全属于王子和其他地方官员：牧师所做的最严厉的事情就是排除那些极度邪恶的人参加他们的崇拜：没有比这更严厉的惩罚了他们比这更害怕，因为这让他们背负着耻辱，也让他们充满秘密的恐惧，这就是他们对宗教的敬畏。他们的身体也不会长期免受其应有的麻烦。因为如果他们不能很快让祭司们相信他们悔改的真实性，他们就会被元老院抓住，并因他们的不敬而受到惩罚。 青年人的教育属于祭司们，但他们并不注重对他们进行文字上的指导，而是注重培养他们正确的思想和举止。他们利用一切可能的方法，很早就向孩子们温柔而灵活的头脑中灌输一些对他们自己有益且对他们的国家有用的观点，因为当这些事情在那个年龄产生深刻的印象时，他们追随人们的一生，并为维护政府的和平作出很大贡献，而政府所遭受的痛苦无非是因不良观点而产生的恶习。他们的牧师的妻子是全国最杰出的女性。有时，妇女自己也被任命为牧师，尽管这种情况很少发生，而且除了古代寡妇之外，没有任何人被选入这一职位。

‘None of the magistrates have greater honour paid them than is paid the priests; and if they should happen to commit any crime, they would not be questioned for it; their punishment is left to God, and to their own consciences; for they do not think it lawful to lay hands on any man, how wicked soever he is, that has been in a peculiar manner dedicated to God; nor do they find any great inconvenience in this, both because they have so few priests, and because these are chosen with much caution, so that it must be a very unusual thing to find one who, merely out of regard to his virtue, and for his being esteemed a singularly good man, was raised up to so great a dignity, degenerate into corruption and vice; and if such a thing should fall out, for man is a changeable creature, yet, there being few priests, and these having no authority but what rises out of the respect that is paid them, nothing of great consequence to the public can proceed from the indemnity that the priests enjoy.
‘没有哪一个行政长官所获得的荣誉比祭司所获得的荣誉更大；如果他们犯了任何罪行，也不会受到审问；他们的惩罚留给上帝和他们自己的良心；因为他们不认为对任何以特殊方式献身于上帝的人下手是合法的，无论他有多么邪恶。他们也没有发现这有什么大的不便，既因为他们的牧师很少，又因为这些牧师的选择非常谨慎，所以找到一个仅仅出于对他的美德的考虑而成为他的人一定是一件非常不寻常的事情。他被认为是一个非常好的人，却被提升到如此高的尊严，却堕落到腐败和罪恶之中。如果这样的事情发生了，因为人是一种多变的生物，然而，祭司很少，而且这些人没有任何权威，除了从对他们的尊重中产生的之外，对公众来说不会产生任何重大影响祭司享有的赔偿。

‘They have, indeed, very few of them, lest greater numbers sharing in the same honour might make the dignity of that order, which they esteem so highly, to sink in its reputation; they also think it difficult to find out many of such an exalted pitch of goodness as to be equal to that dignity, which demands the exercise of more than ordinary virtues. Nor are the priests in greater veneration among them than they are among their neighbouring nations, as you may imagine by that which I think gives occasion for it.
“他们确实拥有很少的人，以免更多的人分享同样的荣誉，可能会使他们如此高度推崇的那个组织的尊严在其声誉中沉沦；他们还认为，很难找到许多如此崇高的善良，可以与尊严相媲美，而尊严需要超越普通的美德。他们对祭司的尊敬并不比他们在邻国中受到的尊敬多，正如你可以想象的那样，我认为这是有原因的。

‘When the Utopians engage in battle, the priests who accompany them to the war, apparelled in their sacred vestments, kneel down during the action (in a place not far from the field), and, lifting up their hands to heaven, pray, first for peace, and then for victory to their own side, and particularly that it may be gained without the effusion of much blood on either side; and when the victory turns to their side, they run in among their own men to restrain their fury; and if any of their enemies see them or call to them, they are preserved by that means; and such as can come so near them as to touch their garments have not only their lives, but their fortunes secured to them; it is upon this account that all the nations round about consider them so much, and treat them with such reverence, that they have been often no less able to preserve their own people from the fury of their enemies than to save their enemies from their rage; for it has sometimes fallen out, that when their armies have been in disorder and forced to fly, so that their enemies were running upon the slaughter and spoil, the priests by interposing have separated them from one another, and stopped the effusion of more blood; so that, by their mediation, a peace has been concluded on very reasonable terms; nor is there any nation about them so fierce, cruel, or barbarous, as not to look upon their persons as sacred and inviolable.
当乌托邦人投入战斗时，伴随他们参战的祭司们穿着神圣的法衣，在战斗中跪下（在离战场不远的地方），并向天举起双手，祈祷：首先是为了和平，然后是为了自己一方的胜利，特别是在双方不流血的情况下取得胜利；当胜利转向他们这边时，他们就跑到自己的人中间来抑制自己的愤怒。如果他们的任何敌人看到他们或呼唤他们，他们就会因此而得到保护。凡是能靠近他们、触摸他们衣服的人，不仅会失去生命，而且会保全财产。正是由于这个原因，周围的所有国家都如此重视他们，并以如此崇敬的态度对待他们，以至于他们常常能够保护自己的人民免受敌人的愤怒，就像拯救他们的敌人免受愤怒一样。 ;因为有时会发生这样的情况：当他们的军队陷入混乱并被迫逃跑，以至于他们的敌人正在屠杀和掠夺时，祭司们会通过介入将他们分开，并阻止更多的血液涌出。 ;因此，通过他们的调解，以非常合理的条件缔结了和平；他们周围没有一个民族如此凶猛、残酷或野蛮，以至于不将他们的人身视为神圣不可侵犯。

‘The first and the last day of the month, and of the year, is a festival; they measure their months by the course of the moon, and their years by the course of the sun: the first days are called in their language the Cynemernes, and the last the Trapemernes, which answers in our language, to the festival that begins or ends the season.
‘每年的第一天和最后一天是节日；他们根据月亮的运行轨迹来测量月份，根据太阳的运行轨迹来测量年份：第一天在他们的语言中被称为“Cynemernes”，最后一天被称为“Trapemernes”，在我们的语言中，它对应于开始或结束的节日。赛季结束。

‘They have magnificent temples, that are not only nobly built, but extremely spacious, which is the more necessary as they have so few of them; they are a little dark within, which proceeds not from any error in the architecture, but is done with design; for their priests think that too much light dissipates the thoughts, and that a more moderate degree of it both recollects the mind and raises devotion. Though there are many different forms of religion among them, yet all these, how various soever, agree in the main point, which is the worshipping the Divine Essence; and, therefore, there is nothing to be seen or heard in their temples in which the several persuasions among them may not agree; for every sect performs those rites that are peculiar to it in their private houses, nor is there anything in the public worship that contradicts the particular ways of those different sects. There are no images for God in their temples, so that every one may represent Him to his thoughts according to the way of his religion; nor do they call this one God by any other name but that of Mithras, which is the common name by which they all express the Divine Essence, whatsoever otherwise they think it to be; nor are there any prayers among them but such as every one of them may use without prejudice to his own opinion.
‘他们有宏伟的寺庙，不仅建筑宏伟，而且极其宽敞，这在他们数量如此稀少的情况下就更加必要了；它们的内部有点黑暗，这不是由于架构中的任何错误造成的，而是通过设计完成的；因为他们的祭司认为，太多的光会驱散思想，而适度的光既可以恢复思想，又可以提高奉献精神。尽管它们之间有许多不同的宗教形式，但所有这些宗教，无论多么不同，都在一个要点上一致，那就是崇拜神圣本质；因此，在他们的神庙中所看到或听到的一切，他们之间的各种信仰都可能不一致。因为每个教派都在其私人住宅中举行其特有的仪式，而在公共崇拜中也没有任何与这些不同教派的特定方式相矛盾的事情。他们的寺庙里没有上帝的肖像，因此每个人都可以根据自己的宗教信仰在自己的思想中代表上帝；除了密特拉之外，他们也没有用任何其他名字来称呼这位神，密特拉是他们用来表达神圣本质的通用名称，无论他们认为是什么。他们之间也没有任何祈祷，而是他们每个人都可以在不影响自己观点的情况下使用的祈祷。

‘They meet in their temples on the evening of the festival that concludes a season, and not having yet broke their fast, they thank God for their good success during that year or month which is then at an end; and the next day, being that which begins the new season, they meet early in their temples, to pray for the happy progress of all their affairs during that period upon which they then enter. In the festival which concludes the period, before they go to the temple, both wives and children fall on their knees before their husbands or parents and confess everything in which they have either erred or failed in their duty, and beg pardon for it. Thus all little discontents in families are removed, that they may offer up their devotions with a pure and serene mind; for they hold it a great impiety to enter upon them with disturbed thoughts, or with a consciousness of their bearing hatred or anger in their hearts to any person whatsoever; and think that they should become liable to severe punishments if they presumed to offer sacrifices without cleansing their hearts, and reconciling all their differences. In the temples the two sexes are separated, the men go to the right hand, and the women to the left; and the males and females all place themselves before the head and master or mistress of the family to which they belong, so that those who have the government of them at home may see their deportment in public. And they intermingle them so, that the younger and the older may be set by one another; for if the younger sort were all set together, they would, perhaps, trifle away that time too much in which they ought to beget in themselves that religious dread of the Supreme Being which is the greatest and almost the only incitement to virtue.
“他们在一个季节结束的节日晚上在寺庙里聚会，还没有开斋，他们感谢上帝让他们在那年或那个月结束时取得成功；第二天，即新季节的开始，他们早早地在寺庙里聚会，祈祷在接下来的这段时间里一切事务顺利进展。在结束这一时期的节日里，在去寺庙之前，妻子和孩子都要跪在丈夫或父母面前，承认自己犯下的错误或失职的一切，并请求原谅。这样，家庭中所有的小不满都被消除了，以便他们可以以纯洁和宁静的心来奉献自己的奉献。因为他们认为，怀着不安的思想或意识到自己内心对任何人怀有仇恨或愤怒而进入它们，就是极大的不敬。他们认为，如果他们在没有净化内心、没有调和所有分歧的情况下擅自献祭，他们应该受到严厉的惩罚。在寺庙里，两性是分开的，男人走右手，女人走左边。男女都拜见本家的家长、主妇，让家里的统治者在公共场合看到他们的行为。他们将它们混合在一起，以便年轻的和年长的可以彼此排列。因为如果年轻一辈都聚集在一起，他们也许会浪费太多时间，在这段时间里，他们本应在自己身上产生对至高无上的存在的宗教恐惧，而这种恐惧是对美德的最大、几乎是唯一的激励。

‘They offer up no living creature in sacrifice, nor do they think it suitable to the Divine Being, from whose bounty it is that these creatures have derived their lives, to take pleasure in their deaths, or the offering up their blood. They burn incense and other sweet odours, and have a great number of wax lights during their worship, not out of any imagination that such oblations can add anything to the divine nature (which even prayers cannot do), but as it is a harmless and pure way of worshipping God; so they think those sweet savours and lights, together with some other ceremonies, by a secret and unaccountable virtue, elevate men’s souls, and inflame them with greater energy and cheerfulness during the divine worship.
‘他们不献任何活物作为祭品，他们也不认为这对神来说是合适的，因为这些生物从神的恩惠中获得了生命，以他们的死亡或献祭他们的血为乐。他们在礼拜时烧香和其他香甜的气味，并点上大量的蜡灯，并不是出于任何想象，认为这些祭品可以为神性增添任何东西（甚至祈祷也无法做到这一点），而是因为它是无害且无害的。纯粹的敬拜上帝的方式；因此，他们认为这些甜蜜的味道和光芒，连同其他一些仪式，通过一种秘密的、无法解释的美德，提升了人们的灵魂，并在神圣的崇拜中以更大的能量和快乐点燃了他们。

‘All the people appear in the temples in white garments; but the priest’s vestments are parti-coloured, and both the work and colours are wonderful. They are made of no rich materials, for they are neither embroidered nor set with precious stones; but are composed of the plumes of several birds, laid together with so much art, and so neatly, that the true value of them is far beyond the costliest materials. They say, that in the ordering and placing those plumes some dark mysteries are represented, which pass down among their priests in a secret tradition concerning them; and that they are as hieroglyphics, putting them in mind of the blessing that they have received from God, and of their duties, both to Him and to their neighbours. As soon as the priest appears in those ornaments, they all fall prostrate on the ground, with so much reverence and so deep a silence, that such as look on cannot but be struck with it, as if it were the effect of the appearance of a deity. After they have been for some time in this posture, they all stand up, upon a sign given by the priest, and sing hymns to the honour of God, some musical instruments playing all the while. These are quite of another form than those used among us; but, as many of them are much sweeter than ours, so others are made use of by us. Yet in one thing they very much exceed us: all their music, both vocal and instrumental, is adapted to imitate and express the passions, and is so happily suited to every occasion, that, whether the subject of the hymn be cheerful, or formed to soothe or trouble the mind, or to express grief or remorse, the music takes the impression of whatever is represented, affects and kindles the passions, and works the sentiments deep into the hearts of the hearers. When this is done, both priests and people offer up very solemn prayers to God in a set form of words; and these are so composed, that whatsoever is pronounced by the whole assembly may be likewise applied by every man in particular to his own condition. In these they acknowledge God to be the author and governor of the world, and the fountain of all the good they receive, and therefore offer up to him their thanksgiving; and, in particular, bless him for His goodness in ordering it so, that they are born under the happiest government in the world, and are of a religion which they hope is the truest of all others; but, if they are mistaken, and if there is either a better government, or a religion more acceptable to God, they implore His goodness to let them know it, vowing that they resolve to follow him whithersoever he leads them; but if their government is the best, and their religion the truest, then they pray that He may fortify them in it, and bring all the world both to the same rules of life, and to the same opinions concerning Himself, unless, according to the unsearchableness of His mind, He is pleased with a variety of religions. Then they pray that God may give them an easy passage at last to Himself, not presuming to set limits to Him, how early or late it should be; but, if it may be wished for without derogating from His supreme authority, they desire to be quickly delivered, and to be taken to Himself, though by the most terrible kind of death, rather than to be detained long from seeing Him by the most prosperous course of life. When this prayer is ended, they all fall down again upon the ground; and, after a little while, they rise up, go home to dinner, and spend the rest of the day in diversion or military exercises.
‘所有的人都穿着白衣出现在寺庙里；但祭司的法衣是杂色的，做工和颜色都很棒。它们的材质并不丰富，因为它们既没有刺绣，也没有镶嵌宝石。它们的真正价值远远超出了最昂贵的材料。他们说，这些羽毛的排列和放置代表了一些黑暗的奥秘，这些奥秘以与他们有关的秘密传统在他们的祭司中流传下来。它们就像象形文字一样，让他们牢记自己从上帝那里得到的祝福，以及他们对上帝和邻居的责任。当祭司一身着这些饰物出现时，他们全都跪倒在地，充满了崇敬和深深的沉默，以至于旁观的人不禁会被震撼，仿佛这是神出现的效果。一个神。当他们保持这种姿势一段时间后，他们都会在牧师的示意下站起来，唱赞美诗赞美上帝，同时演奏一些乐器。这些与我们之间使用的形式完全不同。但是，由于其中许多比我们的甜得多，所以其他的就被我们利用了。然而，有一件事他们远远超过了我们：他们所有的音乐，无论是声乐还是器乐，都适合模仿和表达激情，并且非常适合各种场合，以至于无论赞美诗的主题是欢快的，还是形成的为了舒缓或困扰心灵，或表达悲伤或悔恨，音乐会吸收所代表的事物的印象，影响和点燃激情，并将情感深深地植入听众的内心。 当这一切完成后，祭司和民众都会以固定的语言向上帝献上非常庄严的祈祷。这些内容的组成是为了使全体会议所宣布的任何内容都可以同样地被每个人应用，特别是针对他自己的情况。在这些书中，他们承认上帝是世界的创造者和统治者，也是他们所接受的一切美好事物的源泉，因此向他表示感谢；尤其是，祝福他的仁慈，让他们出生在世界上最幸福的政府之下，并信仰一种他们希望是最真实的宗教。但是，如果他们错了，如果有一个更好的政府，或者有一个更能被上帝接受的宗教，他们就会祈求上帝的仁慈让他们知道这一点，并发誓无论他带领他们到哪里，他们都决心跟随他。但如果他们的政府是最好的，他们的宗教是最真实的，那么他们就会祈求上帝加强他们的力量，让全世界都遵守同样的生活规则，对自己有同样的看法，除非，根据由于他的心智深不可测，他对各种宗教都感到满意。然后他们祈求上帝最终给他们一条通向他自己的捷径，而不是预设对他设定限制，无论应该多早或多晚；但是，如果可以在不减损他至高无上的权威的情况下实现这一愿望，他们希望尽快被释放，并被带到他身边，尽管是通过最可怕的死亡，而不是被最可怕的死亡拘留很长时间而无法见到他。繁荣的人生历程。当这个祈祷结束时，他们都再次倒在地上；过了一会儿，他们起床，回家吃晚饭，然后用一天剩下的时间进行消遣或军事演习。

‘Thus have I described to you, as particularly as I could, the Constitution of that commonwealth, which I do not only think the best in the world, but indeed the only commonwealth that truly deserves that name. In all other places it is visible that, while people talk of a commonwealth, every man only seeks his own wealth; but there, where no man has any property, all men zealously pursue the good of the public, and, indeed, it is no wonder to see men act so differently, for in other commonwealths every man knows that, unless he provides for himself, how flourishing soever the commonwealth may be, he must die of hunger, so that he sees the necessity of preferring his own concerns to the public; but in Utopia, where every man has a right to everything, they all know that if care is taken to keep the public stores full no private man can want anything; for among them there is no unequal distribution, so that no man is poor, none in necessity, and though no man has anything, yet they are all rich; for what can make a man so rich as to lead a serene and cheerful life, free from anxieties; neither apprehending want himself, nor vexed with the endless complaints of his wife? He is not afraid of the misery of his children, nor is he contriving how to raise a portion for his daughters; but is secure in this, that both he and his wife, his children and grandchildren, to as many generations as he can fancy, will all live both plentifully and happily; since, among them, there is no less care taken of those who were once engaged in labour, but grow afterwards unable to follow it, than there is, elsewhere, of these that continue still employed. I would gladly hear any man compare the justice that is among them with that of all other nations; among whom, may I perish, if I see anything that looks either like justice or equity; for what justice is there in this: that a nobleman, a goldsmith, a banker, or any other man, that either does nothing at all, or, at best, is employed in things that are of no use to the public, should live in great luxury and splendour upon what is so ill acquired, and a mean man, a carter, a smith, or a ploughman, that works harder even than the beasts themselves, and is employed in labours so necessary, that no commonwealth could hold out a year without them, can only earn so poor a livelihood and must lead so miserable a life, that the condition of the beasts is much better than theirs? For as the beasts do not work so constantly, so they feed almost as well, and with more pleasure, and have no anxiety about what is to come, whilst these men are depressed by a barren and fruitless employment, and tormented with the apprehensions of want in their old age; since that which they get by their daily labour does but maintain them at present, and is consumed as fast as it comes in, there is no overplus left to lay up for old age.
“因此，我已尽可能具体地向你们描述了该联邦的宪法，我认为它不仅是世界上最好的，而且实际上是唯一真正配得上这个名字的联邦。在所有其他地方都可以看出，当人们谈论共和国时，每个人都只追求自己的财富；但在那里，没有人拥有任何财产，所有人都热心地追求公共利益，事实上，看到人们的行为如此不同也就不足为奇了，因为在其他国家，每个人都知道，除非他养活自己，无论国家多么繁荣，他都必须死于饥饿，这样他才能看到有必要优先考虑自己的利益而不是公众的利益。但在乌托邦，每个人都拥有一切权利，他们都知道，如果注意保持公共商店满员，那么任何人都不会想要任何东西；因为他们之间没有不平等的分配，所以没有人是贫穷的，没有人是有需要的，虽然没有人拥有任何东西，但他们都是富有的。是什么让一个人如此富有，过着平静而快乐的生活，没有忧虑？既不担心自己的匮乏，也不为妻子无休无止的抱怨而烦恼？他不怕孩子们受苦，也不会想方设法为女儿们筹集一份钱；但他确信，他和他的妻子、他的孩子和孙子，无论他能想象多少代人，都将生活得富裕而幸福。因为，在他们当中，对那些曾经从事过劳动但后来无法从事劳动的人所给予的照顾，并不比其他地方对那些继续从事劳动的人所给予的照顾少。 我很乐意听到有人将他们的正义与所有其他国家的正义进行比较。在他们中间，如果我看到任何看起来像正义或公平的东西，我可能会灭亡；因为这有什么正义可言：贵族、金匠、银行家或任何其他人，要么什么都不做，要么充其量从事对公众没有用的事情，就应该活着靠着如此不义之财获得的巨大奢侈和辉煌，以及一个卑鄙的人，一个车夫，一个铁匠，或者一个农夫，他们甚至比野兽本身还要努力工作，并且从事如此必要的劳动，以至于没有一个国家能够坚持下去没有他们的一年，只能维持如此贫困的生计，过得如此悲惨，禽兽的境况比他们好得多吗？因为野兽不那么持续地工作，所以他们吃得也差不多，而且更快乐，而且对即将发生的事情没有焦虑，而这些人则因贫瘠和无成果的工作而沮丧，并因对未来的忧虑而备受折磨。想要在晚年；因为他们通过日常劳动得到的东西只能维持目前的生活，而且来得快就消耗掉，所以没有多余的钱可以为老年储蓄。

‘Is not that government both unjust and ungrateful, that is so prodigal of its favours to those that are called gentlemen, or goldsmiths, or such others who are idle, or live either by flattery or by contriving the arts of vain pleasure, and, on the other hand, takes no care of those of a meaner sort, such as ploughmen, colliers, and smiths, without whom it could not subsist? But after the public has reaped all the advantage of their service, and they come to be oppressed with age, sickness, and want, all their labours and the good they have done is forgotten, and all the recompense given them is that they are left to die in great misery. The richer sort are often endeavouring to bring the hire of labourers lower, not only by their fraudulent practices, but by the laws which they procure to be made to that effect, so that though it is a thing most unjust in itself to give such small rewards to those who deserve so well of the public, yet they have given those hardships the name and colour of justice, by procuring laws to be made for regulating them.
“这个政府难道不是既不公正又忘恩负义，对那些所谓的绅士、金匠或其他游手好闲的人如此挥霍，或者靠奉承或靠虚荣的享乐艺术生活，而且，另一方面，又不关心那些比较卑微的人，比如农夫、煤矿工人和铁匠，没有他们，它就无法生存？但是当公众获得了他们服务的所有好处之后，他们开始受到年龄、疾病和匮乏的压迫，他们所有的劳动和他们所做的善事都被遗忘了，给予他们的所有回报就是他们被留下了。在极大的痛苦中死去。较富有的人经常努力降低工人的工资，不仅通过他们的欺诈行为，而且通过他们为此目的而制定的法律，因此，尽管给予如此之少的工资本身是一件最不公正的事情奖励给那些值得公众如此好的人，但他们却通过制定法律来规范这些困难，从而给这些困难赋予了正义的名称和色彩。

‘Therefore I must say that, as I hope for mercy, I can have no other notion of all the other governments that I see or know, than that they are a conspiracy of the rich, who, on pretence of managing the public, only pursue their private ends, and devise all the ways and arts they can find out; first, that they may, without danger, preserve all that they have so ill-acquired, and then, that they may engage the poor to toil and labour for them at as low rates as possible, and oppress them as much as they please; and if they can but prevail to get these contrivances established by the show of public authority, which is considered as the representative of the whole people, then they are accounted laws; yet these wicked men, after they have, by a most insatiable covetousness, divided that among themselves with which all the rest might have been well supplied, are far from that happiness that is enjoyed among the Utopians; for the use as well as the desire of money being extinguished, much anxiety and great occasions of mischief is cut off with it, and who does not see that the frauds, thefts, robberies, quarrels, tumults, contentions, seditions, murders, treacheries, and witchcrafts, which are, indeed, rather punished than restrained by the seventies of law, would all fall off, if money were not any more valued by the world? Men’s fears, solicitudes, cares, labours, and watchings would all perish in the same moment with the value of money; even poverty itself, for the relief of which money seems most necessary, would fall. But, in order to the apprehending this aright, take one instance:-
“因此，我必须说，正如我希望宽恕一样，我对我所看到或知道的所有其他政府没有其他看法，除了他们是富人的阴谋，他们假装管理公众，只是追求他们的私人目的，并设计他们能找到的所有方法和艺术；首先，他们可以在没有危险的情况下保存他们辛苦获得的一切，然后，他们可以让穷人以尽可能低的工资为他们劳作和劳作，并随心所欲地压迫他们；如果他们能够通过表现出被视为全民代表的公共权威而使这些设计得以确立，那么它们就被视为法律；然而，这些邪恶的人，由于贪得无厌的贪婪，瓜分了本来可以充分供应其他人的东西，他们与乌托邦人所享有的幸福相去甚远。因为金钱的使用和欲望被消灭了，许多焦虑和恶作剧的大事也随之消失了，谁没有看到欺诈、盗窃、抢劫、争吵、骚乱、争执、煽动、谋杀、背叛，而巫术确实受到了七十年代法律的惩罚而不是限制，如果金钱不再被世界所更加重视的话，巫术就会全部消失吗？人的恐惧、忧虑、忧虑、劳作、警醒，都会随着金钱的价值而消亡。甚至连贫困本身也会减少，而为了缓解贫困，金钱似乎是最必要的。但是，为了正确理解这一点，请举一个例子：-

‘Consider any year, that has been so unfruitful that many thousands have died of hunger; and yet if, at the end of that year, a survey was made of the granaries of all the rich men that have hoarded up the corn, it would be found that there was enough among them to have prevented all that consumption of men that perished in misery; and that, if it had been distributed among them, none would have felt the terrible effects of that scarcity: so easy a thing would it be to supply all the necessities of life, if that blessed thing called money, which is pretended to be invented for procuring them was not really the only thing that obstructed their being procured!
“想想任何一年，那一年都是如此无果而终，成千上万的人死于饥饿；然而，如果在那一年年底，对所有囤积谷物的富人的粮仓进行调查，就会发现，其中的粮食足以阻止那些死去的人的消费。处于痛苦之中；而且，如果它被分配给他们，没有人会感受到这种稀缺的可怕影响：如果那种被称为金钱的幸福之物被假装是被发明的，那么供应所有生活必需品将是多么容易的事情因为获取它们并不是阻碍它们被获取的唯一因素！

‘I do not doubt but rich men are sensible of this, and that they well know how much a greater happiness it is to want nothing necessary, than to abound in many superfluities; and to be rescued out of so much misery, than to abound with so much wealth: and I cannot think but the sense of every man’s interest, added to the authority of Christ’s commands, who, as He was infinitely wise, knew what was best, and was not less good in discovering it to us, would have drawn all the world over to the laws of the Utopians, if pride, that plague of human nature, that source of so much misery, did not hinder it; for this vice does not measure happiness so much by its own conveniences, as by the miseries of others; and would not be satisfied with being thought a goddess, if none were left that were miserable, over whom she might insult. Pride thinks its own happiness shines the brighter, by comparing it with the misfortunes of other persons; that by displaying its own wealth they may feel their poverty the more sensibly. This is that infernal serpent that creeps into the breasts of mortals, and possesses them too much to be easily drawn out; and, therefore, I am glad that the Utopians have fallen upon this form of government, in which I wish that all the world could be so wise as to imitate them; for they have, indeed, laid down such a scheme and foundation of policy, that as men live happily under it, so it is like to be of great continuance; for they having rooted out of the minds of their people all the seeds, both of ambition and faction, there is no danger of any commotions at home; which alone has been the ruin of many states that seemed otherwise to be well secured; but as long as they live in peace at home, and are governed by such good laws, the envy of all their neighbouring princes, who have often, though in vain, attempted their ruin, will never be able to put their state into any commotion or disorder.’
“我毫不怀疑，富人很清楚这一点，他们很清楚，一无所缺比拥有许多多余的东西要幸福得多；从如此多的苦难中被拯救出来，胜过拥有如此多的财富：我只能想到每个人的利益，加上基督命令的权威，因为他是无限的智慧，知道什么是最好的如果傲慢这个人性的瘟疫、许多苦难的根源没有阻碍的话，他也同样善于向我们发现这一点，就会把全世界都吸引到乌托邦的法律面前。因为这种恶习衡量幸福的标准与其说是其自身的便利，不如说是他人的痛苦。她不会满足于被视为女神，如果没有留下任何痛苦的人，她可能会侮辱他们。骄傲自以为与别人的不幸相比，自己的幸福更加耀眼；通过展示自己的财富，他们可能会更明显地感受到自己的贫穷。 这就是那条地狱之蛇，它爬进了凡人的胸膛，占据了人们的胸膛，难以轻易地被抽出。因此，我很高兴乌托邦主义者选择了这种形式的政府，我希望全世界都能明智地效仿他们。因为他们确实制定了这样一个计划和政策基础，当人们在它之下幸福地生活时，它就会具有很大的持续性。因为他们已经从人民的心中根除了野心和派系的所有种子，因此国内不存在任何骚乱的危险。仅此一项就导致了许多看似安全的国家的毁灭；但是，只要他们在国内和平地生活，并受到如此良好的法律的统治，所有邻国王子的嫉妒，虽然他们经常试图毁灭他们，但徒劳无功，却永远无法使他们的国家陷入任何骚乱或紊乱。’

When Raphael had thus made an end of speaking, though many things occurred to me, both concerning the manners and laws of that people, that seemed very absurd, as well in their way of making war, as in their notions of religion and divine matters—together with several other particulars, but chiefly what seemed the foundation of all the rest, their living in common, without the use of money, by which all nobility, magnificence, splendour, and majesty, which, according to the common opinion, are the true ornaments of a nation, would be quite taken away—yet since I perceived that Raphael was weary, and was not sure whether he could easily bear contradiction, remembering that he had taken notice of some, who seemed to think they were bound in honour to support the credit of their own wisdom, by finding out something to censure in all other men’s inventions, besides their own, I only commended their Constitution, and the account he had given of it in general; and so, taking him by the hand, carried him to supper, and told him I would find out some other time for examining this subject more particularly, and for discoursing more copiously upon it. And, indeed, I shall be glad to embrace an opportunity of doing it. In the meanwhile, though it must be confessed that he is both a very learned man and a person who has obtained a great knowledge of the world, I cannot perfectly agree to everything he has related. However, there are many things in the commonwealth of Utopia that I rather wish, than hope, to see followed in our governments.
当拉斐尔结束讲话时，尽管我想到了许多事情，无论是关于那个民族的风俗习惯还是法律，都显得非常荒谬，他们发动战争的方式，以及他们对宗教和神圣事务的观念也是如此。 ——连同其他几个细节，但主要是其余所有细节的基础，即他们共同的生活，不使用金钱，所有的高贵、华丽、辉煌和威严，根据普遍的看法，都是通过这种生活来实现的。一个国家真正的装饰品，将被完全夺走——然而，自从我意识到拉斐尔很疲倦，并且不确定他是否能够轻易忍受矛盾，记得他已经注意到一些人，他们似乎认为自己被束缚在我很荣幸地支持他们自己智慧的信誉，通过在除了他们自己的发明之外的所有其他人的发明中找出一些值得谴责的东西，我只赞扬他们的宪法，以及他对宪法的总体说明；于是，我拉着他的手，带他去吃晚饭，并告诉他我会找个其他时间来更具体地研究这个话题，并对此进行更丰富的讨论。事实上，我会很高兴抓住这样做的机会。同时，虽然必须承认他既是一位博学多才的人，也是一位博学多才的人，但我不能完全同意他所讲述的一切。然而，在乌托邦联邦中，有很多事情是我宁愿而不是希望看到我们的政府遵循的。