
The Great Gatsby
了不起的盖茨比

By F. Scott Fitzgerald
作者：F·斯科特·菲茨杰拉德

Then wear the gold hat, if that will move her;
那就戴上金帽子吧，如果这能打动她的话；

If you can bounce high, bounce for her too,
如果你能跳得很高，也为她跳起来，

Till she cry ‘Lover, gold-hatted, high-bouncing lover,
直到她喊道：“情人，戴金帽子的高弹情人，

I must have you!’
我必须拥有你！

—THOMAS PARKE D’INVILLIERS
——托马斯·帕克·丹维利耶

Chapter 1
第1章

In my younger and more vulnerable years my father gave me some advice that I’ve been turning over in my mind ever since.
在我年轻、脆弱的时候，父亲给了我一些建议，从那时起我就一直在思考这些建议。

‘Whenever you feel like criticizing any one,’ he told me, ‘just remember that all the people in this world haven’t had the advantages that you’ve had.’
“每当你想批评任何人时，”他告诉我，“请记住，这个世界上并不是所有人都拥有你所拥有的优势。”

He didn’t say any more but we’ve always been unusually communicative in a reserved way, and I understood that he meant a great deal more than that. In consequence I’m inclined to reserve all judgments, a habit that has opened up many curious natures to me and also made me the victim of not a few veteran bores. The abnormal mind is quick to detect and attach itself to this quality when it appears in a normal person, and so it came about that in college I was unjustly accused of being a politician, because I was privy to the secret griefs of wild, unknown men. Most of the confidences were unsought—frequently I have feigned sleep, preoccupation, or a hostile levity when I realized by some unmistakable sign that an intimate revelation was quivering on the horizon—for the intimate revelations of young men or at least the terms in which they express them are usually plagiaristic and marred by obvious suppressions. Reserving judgments is a matter of infinite hope. I am still a little afraid of missing something if I forget that, as my father snobbishly suggested, and I snobbishly repeat a sense of the fundamental decencies is parcelled out unequally at birth.
他没有再说什么，但我们总是以一种不同寻常的含蓄方式进行交流，我明白他的意思远不止于此。因此，我倾向于保留所有判断，这种习惯让我产生了许多好奇的本性，也使我成为不少老手无聊的受害者。当这种品质出现在正常人身上时，异常的头脑很快就会发现并依恋它，因此，在大学里，我被不公正地指责为政治家，因为我了解狂野的、未知的秘密悲伤。男人。大多数的秘密都是不请自来的——当我意识到某种明显的迹象表明即将发生亲密的揭露时，我经常假装睡觉、全神贯注或充满敌意的轻率——对于年轻人的亲密揭露，或者至少是在其中的条款。他们表示自己的作品通常是抄袭的，并且受到明显的压制。保留判断是一件充满无限希望的事情。我仍然有点害怕如果我忘记了这一点，就会错过一些东西，正如我父亲势利地建议的那样，我势利地重复了一种基本的礼仪在出生时分配不平等的感觉。

And, after boasting this way of my tolerance, I come to the admission that it has a limit. Conduct may be founded on the hard rock or the wet marshes but after a certain point I don’t care what it’s founded on. When I came back from the East last autumn I felt that I wanted the world to be in uniform and at a sort of moral attention forever; I wanted no more riotous excursions with privileged glimpses into the human heart. Only Gatsby, the man who gives his name to this book, was exempt from my reaction—Gatsby who represented everything for which I have an unaffected scorn. If personality is an unbroken series of successful gestures, then there was something gorgeous about him, some heightened sensitivity to the promises of life, as if he were related to one of those intricate machines that register earthquakes ten thousand miles away. This responsiveness had nothing to do with that flabby impressionability which is dignified under the name of the ‘creative temperament’—it was an extraordinary gift for hope, a romantic readiness such as I have never found in any other person and which it is not likely I shall ever find again. No—Gatsby turned out all right at the end; it is what preyed on Gatsby, what foul dust floated in the wake of his dreams that temporarily closed out my interest in the abortive sorrows and short-winded elations of men.
而且，在夸耀我的这种宽容之后，我承认它是有限度的。行为可能建立在坚硬的岩石或潮湿的沼泽之上，但在某一点之后，我不在乎它的基础是什么。去年秋天，当我从东方回来时，我觉得我希望世界永远穿着制服并受到某种道德关注；我不想再进行喧闹的游览，以特权一睹人类的内心。只有盖茨比，这个以他的名字命名这本书的人，没有受到我的反应的影响——盖茨比代表了我不加掩饰的蔑视的一切。如果个性是一系列不间断的成功姿态，那么他身上就有一些华丽的东西，对生命的承诺有一种高度的敏感性，就好像他与那些记录一万英里外地震的复杂机器有关。这种反应能力与那种被称为“创造性气质”的软弱易感性无关——它是一种非凡的希望天赋，一种浪漫的准备，这是我从未在其他人身上发现过的，也是不可能的。我一定会再次找到。不——盖茨比最终表现得很好。正是这种东西掠夺了盖茨比，正是他的梦想之后飘浮的肮脏尘埃，暂时关闭了我对人类未遂的悲伤和短暂的欢欣的兴趣。

My family have been prominent, well-to-do people in this middle-western city for three generations. The Carraways are something of a clan and we have a tradition that we’re descended from the Dukes of Buccleuch, but the actual founder of my line was my grandfather’s brother who came here in fifty-one, sent a substitute to the Civil War and started the wholesale hardware business that my father carries on today.
我的家族在这座中西部城市已经是三代显赫、富裕的人了。卡罗威家族是一个氏族，我们有一个传统，我们是巴克卢公爵的后裔，但我的血统的真正创始人是我祖父的兄弟，他五十一岁来到这里，派了一个替补参加内战，开始了我父亲今天经营的批发五金生意。

I never saw this great-uncle but I’m supposed to look like him—with special reference to the rather hard-boiled painting that hangs in Father’s office. I graduated from New Haven in 1915, just a quarter of a century after my father, and a little later I participated in that delayed Teutonic migration known as the Great War. I enjoyed the counter-raid so thoroughly that I came back restless. Instead of being the warm center of the world the middle-west now seemed like the ragged edge of the universe—so I decided to go east and learn the bond business. Everybody I knew was in the bond business so I supposed it could support one more single man. All my aunts and uncles talked it over as if they were choosing a prep-school for me and finally said, ‘Why—ye-es’ with very grave, hesitant faces. Father agreed to finance me for a year and after various delays I came east, permanently, I thought, in the spring of twenty-two.
我从未见过这位叔祖父，但我应该看起来像他——特别是父亲办公室里挂着的那幅相当冷酷的画。 1915 年，我从纽黑文毕业，仅仅比我父亲晚了四分之一个世纪，不久之后，我参加了被称为“伟大战争”的条顿族延迟迁徙。我非常享受这次反袭击，以至于回来后焦躁不安。中西部不再是世界温暖的中心，现在看起来像是宇宙的粗糙边缘——所以我决定去东方学习债券业务。我认识的每个人都从事债券行业，所以我想这可以支持另一个单身男人。我所有的叔叔阿姨们都在谈论这件事，就好像他们正在为我选择一所预科学校一样，最后他们一脸严肃、犹豫地说道：“为什么——是的”。父亲同意资助我一年，经过多次拖延后，我在二十二岁的春天永久地来到了东部。

The practical thing was to find rooms in the city but it was a warm season and I had just left a country of wide lawns and friendly trees, so when a young man at the office suggested that we take a house together in a commuting town it sounded like a great idea. He found the house, a weather beaten cardboard bungalow at eighty a month, but at the last minute the firm ordered him to Washington and I went out to the country alone. I had a dog, at least I had him for a few days until he ran away, and an old Dodge and a Finnish woman who made my bed and cooked breakfast and muttered Finnish wisdom to herself over the electric stove.
实际的事情是在城市里找到房间，但当时是一个温暖的季节，而且我刚刚离开一个拥有宽阔草坪和友好树木的国家，所以当办公室的一个年轻人建议我们在一个通勤小镇一起买一套房子时，听起来是个好主意。他找到了房子，是一栋饱经风霜的纸板平房，每月租金八十美元，但在最后一刻，公司命令他去华盛顿，而我独自一人去了乡下。我养了一只狗，至少养了他几天，直到他逃跑，还有一辆老道奇车和一位芬兰女人，她为我铺床、煮早餐，在电炉上自言自语地念叨着芬兰人的智慧。

It was lonely for a day or so until one morning some man, more recently arrived than I, stopped me on the road.
我孤独地待了一天左右，直到有一天早上，一个比我来得更晚的人在路上拦住了我。

‘How do you get to West Egg village?’ he asked helplessly.
“怎么去西卵村？”他无奈地问道。

I told him. And as I walked on I was lonely no longer. I was a guide, a pathfinder, an original settler. He had casually conferred on me the freedom of the neighborhood.
我告诉他了。当我继续前行时，我不再感到孤独。我是一个向导，一个探路者，一个原始的定居者。他漫不经心地给了我邻里的自由。

And so with the sunshine and the great bursts of leaves growing on the trees—just as things grow in fast movies—I had that familiar conviction that life was beginning over again with the summer.
因此，伴随着阳光和树上长出的叶子——就像快速电影中的事物生长一样——我有一种熟悉的信念，即夏天的生活又开始了。

There was so much to read for one thing and so much fine health to be pulled down out of the young breath-giving air. I bought a dozen volumes on banking and credit and investment securities and they stood on my shelf in red and gold like new money from the mint, promising to unfold the shining secrets that only Midas and Morgan and Maecenas knew. And I had the high intention of reading many other books besides. I was rather literary in college—one year I wrote a series of very solemn and obvious editorials for the ‘Yale News’—and now I was going to bring back all such things into my life and become again that most limited of all specialists, the ‘well-rounded man.’ This isn’t just an epigram—life is much more successfully looked at from a single window, after all.
有一件事有太多值得读的东西，有太多美好的健康需要从年轻的呼吸空气中汲取。我买了十几本关于银行、信贷和投资证券的书，它们放在我的书架上，红色和金色的，就像铸币厂的新钱一样，承诺揭开只有迈达斯、摩根和梅塞纳斯知道的闪亮秘密。除此之外，我还有很多其他书籍的强烈愿望。我在大学时颇有文学天赋——有一年我为《耶鲁新闻》写了一系列非常严肃和明显的社论——现在我要把所有这些东西带回到我的生活中，并再次成为所有专家中最有限的， “多才多艺的人”。这不仅仅是一句警句——毕竟，从一个窗口来看生活要成功得多。

It was a matter of chance that I should have rented a house in one of the strangest communities in North America. It was on that slender riotous island which extends itself due east of New York and where there are, among other natural curiosities, two unusual formations of land. Twenty miles from the city a pair of enormous eggs, identical in contour and separated only by a courtesy bay, jut out into the most domesticated body of salt water in the Western Hemisphere, the great wet barnyard of Long Island Sound. They are not perfect ovals—like the egg in the Columbus story they are both crushed flat at the contact end—but their physical resemblance must be a source of perpetual confusion to the gulls that fly overhead. To the wingless a more arresting phenomenon is their dissimilarity in every particular except shape and size.
我本来应该在北美最奇怪的社区之一租一套房子，这纯属偶然。它位于纽约正东延伸的那个细长的、喧闹的岛屿上，除了其他自然奇观之外，那里还有两种不寻常的陆地结构。距离城市二十英里，一对巨大的蛋，轮廓相同，仅隔一个礼貌的海湾，伸入西半球最驯化的咸水体，长岛海峡的大潮湿谷仓。它们不是完美的椭圆形——就像哥伦布故事中的鸡蛋一样，它们在接触端都被压扁了——但它们的物理相似性一定会让飞过头顶的海鸥永远感到困惑。对于无翼生物来说，一个更引人注目的现象是，除了形状和大小之外，它们在每个细节上都存在差异。

I lived at West Egg, the—well, the less fashionable of the two, though this is a most superficial tag to express the bizarre and not a little sinister contrast between them. My house was at the very tip of the egg, only fifty yards from the Sound, and squeezed between two huge places that rented for twelve or fifteen thousand a season. The one on my right was a colossal affair by any standard—it was a factual imitation of some Hôtel de Ville in Normandy, with a tower on one side, spanking new under a thin beard of raw ivy, and a marble swimming pool and more than forty acres of lawn and garden. It was Gatsby’s mansion. Or rather, as I didn’t know Mr. Gatsby it was a mansion inhabited by a gentleman of that name. My own house was an eye-sore, but it was a small eye-sore, and it had been overlooked, so I had a view of the water, a partial view of my neighbor’s lawn, and the consoling proximity of millionaires—all for eighty dollars a month.
我住在西埃格，嗯，是两者中不太时尚的一个，尽管这是一个最肤浅的标签，用来表达它们之间的奇异而不是一点险恶的对比。我的房子位于鸡蛋的最顶端，距离海湾只有五十码，挤在两个每季租金十二或一万五千美元的大地方之间。我右边的那个无论以什么标准来看都是一个巨大的建筑——它实际上是对诺曼底某个市政厅的模仿，一侧有一座塔楼，在稀疏的常春藤胡须下焕然一新，还有一个大理石游泳池等等超过四十英亩的草坪和花园。那是盖茨比的豪宅。或者更确切地说，因为我不认识盖茨比先生，那是一座宅邸，居住着一位同名的绅士。我自己的房子是一个碍眼的地方，但它是一个小碍眼的地方，而且它被忽视了，所以我可以看到水，看到邻居草坪的部分景色，以及令人安慰的百万富翁的接近——所有这些都是为了每月八十美元。

Across the courtesy bay the white palaces of fashionable East Egg glittered along the water, and the history of the summer really begins on the evening I drove over there to have dinner with the Tom Buchanans. Daisy was my second cousin once removed and I’d known Tom in college. And just after the war I spent two days with them in Chicago.
穿过礼貌海湾，时尚东卵的白色宫殿沿着水面闪闪发光，夏天的历史真正开始于我开车去那里与汤姆·布坎南一家共进晚餐的那个晚上。黛西是我的远房表弟，我在大学时就认识汤姆了。战后不久，我在芝加哥和他们一起度过了两天。

Her husband, among various physical accomplishments, had been one of the most powerful ends that ever played football at New Haven—a national figure in a way, one of those men who reach such an acute limited excellence at twenty-one that everything afterward savors of anti-climax. His family were enormously wealthy—even in college his freedom with money was a matter for reproach—but now he’d left Chicago and come east in a fashion that rather took your breath away: for instance he’d brought down a string of polo ponies from Lake Forest. It was hard to realize that a man in my own generation was wealthy enough to do that.
她的丈夫在各种身体成就中，曾是纽黑文足球史上最强大的终结者之一——在某种程度上是一个全国性的人物，是那些在二十一岁就达到如此敏锐有限的卓越的人之一，以至于后来的一切都令人回味。反高潮的。他的家庭非常富有——即使在大学里，他在金钱上的自由也是值得谴责的——但现在他离开了芝加哥，以一种令人惊叹的方式来到东部：例如，他拉下了一串马球衫。来自森林湖的小马。很难想象我们这一代人有足够的财富做到这一点。

Why they came east I don’t know. They had spent a year in France, for no particular reason, and then drifted here and there unrestfully wherever people played polo and were rich together. This was a permanent move, said Daisy over the telephone, but I didn’t believe it—I had no sight into Daisy’s heart but I felt that Tom would drift on forever seeking a little wistfully for the dramatic turbulence of some irrecoverable football game.
我不知道他们为什么来到东方。他们无缘无故地在法国呆了一年，然后不安地漂泊到有人打马球、一起发财的地方。这是永久性的举动，黛西在电话里说，但我不相信这一点——我看不到黛西的内心，但我觉得汤姆会永远漂流，对一些无法挽回的足球比赛的戏剧性动荡寻求一点渴望。

And so it happened that on a warm windy evening I drove over to East Egg to see two old friends whom I scarcely knew at all. Their house was even more elaborate than I expected, a cheerful red and white Georgian Colonial mansion overlooking the bay. The lawn started at the beach and ran toward the front door for a quarter of a mile, jumping over sun-dials and brick walks and burning gardens—finally when it reached the house drifting up the side in bright vines as though from the momentum of its run. The front was broken by a line of French windows, glowing now with reflected gold, and wide open to the warm windy afternoon, and Tom Buchanan in riding clothes was standing with his legs apart on the front porch.
就这样，在一个温暖、有风的夜晚，我开车去东卵看望两位我几乎不认识的老朋友。他们的房子比我想象的还要精致，是一栋令人愉快的红白相间的乔治亚殖民地豪宅，俯瞰着海湾。草坪从海滩开始，朝前门延伸了四分之一英里，跳过了日晷、砖砌小道和燃烧的花园——最后，当它到达房子时，明亮的藤蔓从侧面飘过，仿佛受到了它的运行。前面被一排落地窗打破，现在反射着金色，在温暖的多风午后，汤姆·布坎南穿着骑马服，双腿分开地站在前廊上。

He had changed since his New Haven years. Now he was a sturdy, straw haired man of thirty with a rather hard mouth and a supercilious manner. Two shining, arrogant eyes had established dominance over his face and gave him the appearance of always leaning aggressively forward. Not even the effeminate swank of his riding clothes could hide the enormous power of that body—he seemed to fill those glistening boots until he strained the top lacing and you could see a great pack of muscle shifting when his shoulder moved under his thin coat. It was a body capable of enormous leverage—a cruel body.
与纽黑文时期相比，他已经发生了变化。现在他是一个三十岁的壮实、稻草头发的男人，嘴巴相当严厉，态度也很傲慢。两只闪亮而傲慢的眼睛在他的脸上占据了主导地位，让他看起来总是咄咄逼人地前倾。即使是他那女性化的骑行服也无法掩盖那身体的巨大力量——他似乎充满了那些闪闪发光的靴子，直到他拉紧了顶部的鞋带，当他的肩膀在薄外套下移动时，你可以看到一大群肌肉在移动。这是一个具有巨大影响力的身体——一个残酷的身体。

His speaking voice, a gruff husky tenor, added to the impression of fractiousness he conveyed. There was a touch of paternal contempt in it, even toward people he liked—and there were men at New Haven who had hated his guts.
他说话的声音是粗哑沙哑的男高音，更增添了他暴躁的印象。其中有一丝父亲般的蔑视，甚至是对他喜欢的人——而且纽黑文有些人对他恨之入骨。

‘Now, don’t think my opinion on these matters is final,’ he seemed to say, ‘just because I’m stronger and more of a man than you are.’ We were in the same Senior Society, and while we were never intimate I always had the impression that he approved of me and wanted me to like him with some harsh, defiant wistfulness of his own.
“现在，不要认为我对这些问题的意见是最终的，”他似乎在说，“只是因为我比你更强大，更有男子气概。”我们在同一个老年协会，而我们在从不亲密，我总有这样的印象：他认可我，希望我喜欢他，同时也带着他自己的某种严厉、挑衅的渴望。

We talked for a few minutes on the sunny porch.
我们在阳光明媚的门廊上聊了几分钟。

‘I’ve got a nice place here,’ he said, his eyes flashing about restlessly.
“我在这里有一个不错的地方，”他说道，他的眼睛不安地闪烁着。

Turning me around by one arm he moved a broad flat hand along the front vista, including in its sweep a sunken Italian garden, a half acre of deep pungent roses and a snub-nosed motor boat that bumped the tide off shore.
他用一只手臂把我转过身，一只宽阔平坦的手沿着前面的景色移动，包括一个下沉的意大利花园、半英亩深的辛辣玫瑰和一艘把潮水冲离岸边的扁头摩托艇。

‘It belonged to Demaine the oil man.’ He turned me around again, politely and abruptly. ‘We’ll go inside.’
“它属于石油大亨德梅因。”他再次把我转过身来，礼貌而突然。 “我们进去吧。”

We walked through a high hallway into a bright rosy-colored space, fragilely bound into the house by French windows at either end. The windows were ajar and gleaming white against the fresh grass outside that seemed to grow a little way into the house. A breeze blew through the room, blew curtains in at one end and out the other like pale flags, twisting them up toward the frosted wedding cake of the ceiling—and then rippled over the wine-colored rug, making a shadow on it as wind does on the sea.
我们穿过一条高高的走廊，进入一个明亮的玫瑰色空间，两端的落地窗脆弱地与房子相连。窗户半开着，在外面新鲜的青草映衬下闪闪发光，青草似乎已经长到了房子里。一阵微风吹过房间，像苍白的旗帜一样把窗帘的一端吹进来，另一端吹出来，把它们卷向天花板上结霜的婚礼蛋糕——然后在酒红色的地毯上荡漾，在上面留下风一样的影子。在海上。

The only completely stationary object in the room was an enormous couch on which two young women were buoyed up as though upon an anchored balloon. They were both in white and their dresses were rippling and fluttering as if they had just been blown back in after a short flight around the house. I must have stood for a few moments listening to the whip and snap of the curtains and the groan of a picture on the wall. Then there was a boom as Tom Buchanan shut the rear windows and the caught wind died out about the room and the curtains and the rugs and the two young women ballooned slowly to the floor.
房间里唯一完全静止的物体是一张巨大的沙发，上面漂浮着两个年轻女子，就像在一个固定的气球上一样。她们都穿着白色的衣服，裙子随风飘扬，仿佛她们刚绕着房子飞了一小段才被风吹回来。我一定站了一会儿，听着窗帘的鞭打声和墙上的画的呻吟声。然后，汤姆·布坎南关上后窗，发出一声巨响，房间、窗帘和地毯周围的风都消失了，两个年轻女子慢慢地飘到了地板上。

The younger of the two was a stranger to me. She was extended full length at her end of the divan, completely motionless and with her chin raised a little as if she were balancing something on it which was quite likely to fall. If she saw me out of the corner of her eyes she gave no hint of it—indeed, I was almost surprised into murmuring an apology for having disturbed her by coming in.
两个人中较年轻的一个对我来说很陌生。她在沙发的一端完全伸展开来，一动不动，下巴微微抬起，好像在平衡什么很可能会掉下来的东西。即使她用眼角的余光看到了我，她也没有给出任何暗示——事实上，我几乎惊讶地低声道歉，因为进来打扰了她。

The other girl, Daisy, made an attempt to rise—she leaned slightly forward with a conscientious expression—then she laughed, an absurd, charming little laugh, and I laughed too and came forward into the room.
另一个女孩，黛西，试图站起来——她微微前倾，一脸认真的表情——然后她笑了，一种荒谬而迷人的小笑，我也笑了，走进了房间。

‘I’m p-paralyzed with happiness.’
“我幸福得瘫痪了。”

She laughed again, as if she said something very witty, and held my hand for a moment, looking up into my face, promising that there was no one in the world she so much wanted to see. That was a way she had. She hinted in a murmur that the surname of the balancing girl was Baker. (I’ve heard it said that Daisy’s murmur was only to make people lean toward her; an irrelevant criticism that made it no less charming.)
她又笑了，好像说了些什么非常诙谐的话，握住我的手一会儿，抬头看着我的脸，保证世界上没有人是她那么想见的。这就是她的方式。她低声暗示平衡女孩姓贝克。 （我听说黛西的低语只是为了让人们向她倾斜；一种无关紧要的批评，却丝毫不减其魅力。）

At any rate Miss Baker’s lips fluttered, she nodded at me almost imperceptibly and then quickly tipped her head back again—the object she was balancing had obviously tottered a little and given her something of a fright. Again a sort of apology arose to my lips. Almost any exhibition of complete self sufficiency draws a stunned tribute from me.
无论如何，贝克小姐的嘴唇动了动，她几乎难以察觉地向我点了点头，然后很快又把头向后仰了——她平衡的物体显然有点摇晃，让她有些害怕。我的嘴里再次出现了一种歉意。几乎所有完全自给自足的展览都会引起我的震惊。

I looked back at my cousin who began to ask me questions in her low, thrilling voice. It was the kind of voice that the ear follows up and down as if each speech is an arrangement of notes that will never be played again. Her face was sad and lovely with bright things in it, bright eyes and a bright passionate mouth—but there was an excitement in her voice that men who had cared for her found difficult to forget: a singing compulsion, a whispered ‘Listen,’ a promise that she had done gay, exciting things just a while since and that there were gay, exciting things hovering in the next hour.
我回头看着表姐，她开始用她低沉而激动的声音问我问题。这是一种耳朵会上下跟随的声音，就好像每次讲话都是一个永远不会再被演奏的音符的排列。她的脸悲伤而可爱，里面有明亮的东西，明亮的眼睛和明亮而热情的嘴——但她的声音中有一种兴奋，让关心她的男人很难忘记：一种唱歌的冲动，一种低声的“听”，她承诺，从那以后不久，她就做了一些快乐、令人兴奋的事情，并且在接下来的一个小时里，还会发生一些快乐、令人兴奋的事情。

I told her how I had stopped off in Chicago for a day on my way east and how a dozen people had sent their love through me.
我告诉她我在向东的途中如何在芝加哥停留了一天，以及十几个人如何通过我表达了他们的爱。

‘Do they miss me?’ she cried ecstatically.
“他们想我吗？”她欣喜若狂地喊道。

‘The whole town is desolate. All the cars have the left rear wheel painted black as a mourning wreath and there’s a persistent wail all night along the North Shore.’
‘整个城镇一片荒凉。所有汽车的左后轮都被漆成黑色，就像哀悼花圈一样，北岸整晚都传来持续不断的哀号声。

‘How gorgeous! Let’s go back, Tom. Tomorrow!’ Then she added irrelevantly, ‘You ought to see the baby.’
‘多漂亮呀！我们回去吧，汤姆。明天！”然后她漫不经心地补充道，“你应该看看孩子。”

‘I’d like to.’
'我想。'

‘She’s asleep. She’s two years old. Haven’t you ever seen her?’
‘她睡着了。她两岁了。你没见过她吗？

‘Never.’
'绝不。'

‘Well, you ought to see her. She’s——‘
‘嗯，你应该去看看她。她是——‘

Tom Buchanan who had been hovering restlessly about the room stopped and rested his hand on my shoulder.
汤姆·布坎南一直在房间里不安地徘徊，他停下来，把手搭在我的肩膀上。

‘What you doing, Nick?’
“你在做什么，尼克？”

‘I’m a bond man.’
“我是一个债券人。”

‘Who with?’
'谁与？'

I told him.
我告诉他了。

‘Never heard of them,’ he remarked decisively.
“从来没有听说过他们，”他果断地说。

This annoyed me.
这让我很恼火。

‘You will,’ I answered shortly. ‘You will if you stay in the East.’
“你会的，”我简短地回答。 “如果你留在东部，你就会的。”

‘Oh, I’ll stay in the East, don’t you worry,’ he said, glancing at Daisy and then back at me, as if he were alert for something more. ‘I’d be a God Damned fool to live anywhere else.’
“哦，我会留在东部，你不用担心，”他说，看了一眼黛西，然后又看了看我，好像他在警惕更多的事情。 “如果我住在其他地方，我就是个该死的傻瓜。”

At this point Miss Baker said ‘Absolutely!’ with such suddenness that I started—it was the first word she uttered since I came into the room. Evidently it surprised her as much as it did me, for she yawned and with a series of rapid, deft movements stood up into the room.
这时，贝克小姐突然说“当然！”，这让我吃了一惊——这是我进房间后她说的第一句话。显然，这让她和我一样感到惊讶，因为她打了个哈欠，并以一系列快速、灵巧的动作站进了房间。

‘I’m stiff,’ she complained, ‘I’ve been lying on that sofa for as long as I can remember.’
“我浑身僵硬，”她抱怨道，“从我记事起，我就一直躺在那张沙发上。”

‘Don’t look at me,’ Daisy retorted. ‘I’ve been trying to get you to New York all afternoon.’
“别看着我，”黛西反驳道。 “整个下午我都在想办法送你去纽约。”

‘No, thanks,’ said Miss Baker to the four cocktails just in from the pantry, ‘I’m absolutely in training.’
“不，谢谢，”贝克小姐对着从食品储藏室送来的四杯鸡尾酒说道，“我绝对在接受训练。”

Her host looked at her incredulously.
主人不可置信地看着她。

‘You are!’ He took down his drink as if it were a drop in the bottom of a glass. ‘How you ever get anything done is beyond me.’
“你是！”他把饮料倒了下去，就好像它是杯底的一滴水一样。 “我无法理解你如何完成任何事情。”

I looked at Miss Baker wondering what it was she ‘got done.’ I enjoyed looking at her. She was a slender, small-breasted girl, with an erect carriage which she accentuated by throwing her body backward at the shoulders like a young cadet. Her grey sun-strained eyes looked back at me with polite reciprocal curiosity out of a wan, charming discontented face. It occurred to me now that I had seen her, or a picture of her, somewhere before.
我看着贝克小姐，想知道她“完成了”什么。我喜欢看着她。她是个身材苗条、胸脯较小的女孩，身材挺拔，像年轻的学员一样，身体向后靠在肩膀上，更加突出了这一点。她那双灰色的眼睛在阳光下显得紧张，苍白、迷人、不满的脸上带着礼貌的相互好奇，回望着我。现在我突然想起我以前在什么地方见过她，或者她的照片。

‘You live in West Egg,’ she remarked contemptuously. ‘I know somebody there.’
“你住在西埃格，”她轻蔑地说。 “我认识那里的一个人。”

‘I don’t know a single——‘
“我一个也不认识——”

‘You must know Gatsby.’
“你一定认识盖茨比。”

‘Gatsby?’ demanded Daisy. ‘What Gatsby?’
“盖茨比？”黛西问道。 “什么盖茨比？”

Before I could reply that he was my neighbor dinner was announced; wedging his tense arm imperatively under mine Tom Buchanan compelled me from the room as though he were moving a checker to another square.
我还没来得及回答他是我的邻居，晚餐就被宣布了；汤姆·布坎南用他紧张的手臂强制地把我压在我的下面，迫使我离开房间，就好像他正在把棋子移到另一个格子上一样。

Slenderly, languidly, their hands set lightly on their hips the two young women preceded us out onto a rosy-colored porch open toward the sunset where four candles flickered on the table in the diminished wind.
两位年轻女子纤细而慵懒地把手轻轻放在臀部上，在我们前面走到玫瑰色的门廊上，门廊朝向日落，四支蜡烛在微弱的风中在桌子上闪烁。

‘Why CANDLES?’ objected Daisy, frowning. She snapped them out with her fingers. ‘In two weeks it’ll be the longest day in the year.’ She looked at us all radiantly. ‘Do you always watch for the longest day of the year and then miss it? I always watch for the longest day in the year and then miss it.’
“为什么是蜡烛？”黛西皱着眉头反对道。她用手指把它们折断。 “两周后，这将是一年中最长的一天。”她满面笑容地看着我们大家。 “你是否总是注视着一年中最长的一天，然后就错过了？我总是期待一年中最长的一天，然后就错过了。”

‘We ought to plan something,’ yawned Miss Baker, sitting down at the table as if she were getting into bed.
“我们应该计划一些事情，”贝克小姐打着哈欠，坐在桌边，好像要上床睡觉一样。

‘All right,’ said Daisy. ‘What’ll we plan?’ She turned to me helplessly. ‘What do people plan?’
“好吧，”黛西说。 “我们打算怎么办？”她无助地转向我。 “人们有什么计划？”

Before I could answer her eyes fastened with an awed expression on her little finger.
我还没来得及回答，她的眼睛就带着敬畏的表情盯着她的小指。

‘Look!’ she complained. ‘I hurt it.’
“看！”她抱怨道。 “我伤害了它。”

We all looked—the knuckle was black and blue.
我们都看了看——指关节是青一块紫一块的。

‘You did it, Tom,’ she said accusingly. ‘I know you didn’t mean to but you DID do it. That’s what I get for marrying a brute of a man, a great big hulking physical specimen of a——‘
“你做到了，汤姆，”她指责道。 “我知道你不是故意的，但你确实这么做了。这就是我嫁给一个粗野的男人所得到的结果，一个巨大的、笨重的身体样本——”

‘I hate that word hulking,’ objected Tom crossly, ‘even in kidding.’
“我讨厌‘笨重’这个词，”汤姆生气地反对，“即使是在开玩笑。”

‘Hulking,’ insisted Daisy.
“笨重的，”黛西坚持说。

Sometimes she and Miss Baker talked at once, unobtrusively and with a bantering inconsequence that was never quite chatter, that was as cool as their white dresses and their impersonal eyes in the absence of all desire. They were here—and they accepted Tom and me, making only a polite pleasant effort to entertain or to be entertained. They knew that presently dinner would be over and a little later the evening too would be over and casually put away. It was sharply different from the West where an evening was hurried from phase to phase toward its close in a continually disappointed anticipation or else in sheer nervous dread of the moment itself.
有时她和贝克小姐同时说话，不引人注意，带着一种无关紧要的玩笑，从来都不是闲聊，就像她们的白色裙子和没有任何欲望的客观眼睛一样冷静。他们在这里——他们接受了汤姆和我，只是礼貌地愉快地努力招待或接受招待。他们知道晚餐很快就会结束，过一会儿晚上也会结束并随意收起。这与西方截然不同，在西方，晚上总是在不断失望的期待中，或者在对那一刻本身的紧张恐惧中，从一个阶段匆匆走向结束。

‘You make me feel uncivilized, Daisy,’ I confessed on my second glass of corky but rather impressive claret. ‘Can’t you talk about crops or something?’
“你让我感觉不文明，黛西，”我在喝第二杯软木塞但令人印象深刻的红葡萄酒时承认。 “你不能谈谈庄稼什么的吗？”

I meant nothing in particular by this remark but it was taken up in an unexpected way.
我这句话没有什么特别的意思，但它却以一种意想不到的方式被提及。

‘Civilization’s going to pieces,’ broke out Tom violently. ‘I’ve gotten to be a terrible pessimist about things. Have you read ‘The Rise of the Coloured Empires’ by this man Goddard?’
“文明正在分崩离析。”汤姆猛烈地说。 “我对事情变得非常悲观。你读过戈达德写的《有色帝国的崛起》吗？

‘Why, no,’ I answered, rather surprised by his tone.
“为什么，不，”我回答道，对他的语气感到相当惊讶。

‘Well, it’s a fine book, and everybody ought to read it. The idea is if we don’t look out the white race will be—will be utterly submerged. It’s all scientific stuff; it’s been proved.’
“嗯，这是一本好书，每个人都应该读一读。这个想法是，如果我们不注意的话，白人种族将会被完全淹没。这都是科学的东西；这已经被证明了。

‘Tom’s getting very profound,’ said Daisy with an expression of unthoughtful sadness. ‘He reads deep books with long words in them. What was that word we——‘
“汤姆变得非常深刻了，”黛西说道，脸上带着不经意的悲伤。 “他读的书很深，里面有很长的文字。我们这个词是什么——‘

‘Well, these books are all scientific,’ insisted Tom, glancing at her impatiently. ‘This fellow has worked out the whole thing. It’s up to us who are the dominant race to watch out or these other races will have control of things.’
“嗯，这些书都是科学的，”汤姆不耐烦地看了她一眼，坚持说。 ‘这家伙已经解决了整件事。这取决于我们谁是占主导地位的种族，需要警惕，否则这些其他种族将控制一切。

‘We’ve got to beat them down,’ whispered Daisy, winking ferociously toward the fervent sun.
“我们必须打败他们，”黛西低声说道，对着炽热的太阳猛烈地眨着眼睛。

‘You ought to live in California—’ began Miss Baker but Tom interrupted her by shifting heavily in his chair.
“你应该住在加利福尼亚州——”贝克小姐开口说道，但汤姆在椅子上重重地移动了一下，打断了她。

‘This idea is that we’re Nordics. I am, and you are and you are and——’ After an infinitesimal hesitation he included Daisy with a slight nod and she winked at me again. ‘—and we’ve produced all the things that go to make civilization—oh, science and art and all that. Do you see?’
“这个想法是我们是北欧人。我是，你是，你是——”在一阵无限的犹豫之后，他轻轻地点了点头，将黛西包括在内，她又对我眨了眨眼。 “——我们已经创造了所有能够创造文明的东西——哦，科学和艺术等等。你有看到？'

There was something pathetic in his concentration as if his complacency, more acute than of old, was not enough to him any more. When, almost immediately, the telephone rang inside and the butler left the porch Daisy seized upon the momentary interruption and leaned toward me.
他的注意力集中得有些可悲，仿佛他的自满情绪比以前更加强烈，但对他来说已经不够了。几乎立刻，电话铃响了，管家离开了门廊，黛西抓住了这短暂的中断，靠向我。

‘I’ll tell you a family secret,’ she whispered enthusiastically. ‘It’s about the butler’s nose. Do you want to hear about the butler’s nose?’
“我要告诉你一个家庭秘密，”她热情地低声说道。 “是关于管家的鼻子的。”你想听听管家鼻子的事吗？

‘That’s why I came over tonight.’
“这就是我今晚过来的原因。”

‘Well, he wasn’t always a butler; he used to be the silver polisher for some people in New York that had a silver service for two hundred people. He had to polish it from morning till night until finally it began to affect his nose——‘
“嗯，他并不总是一名管家；他是一名管家。”他曾经是纽约一些人的银器抛光师，为两百人提供银器服务。他必须从早到晚地打磨它，直到最后它开始影响他的鼻子——’

‘Things went from bad to worse,’ suggested Miss Baker.
“事情变得越来越糟，”贝克小姐建议道。

‘Yes. Things went from bad to worse until finally he had to give up his position.’
'是的。事情变得越来越糟，直到最后他不得不放弃自己的职位。

For a moment the last sunshine fell with romantic affection upon her glowing face; her voice compelled me forward breathlessly as I listened—then the glow faded, each light deserting her with lingering regret like children leaving a pleasant street at dusk.
刹那间，最后的阳光带着浪漫的爱意落在她容光焕发的脸上。当我聆听时，她的声音迫使我气喘吁吁地向前走——然后光芒消失了，每一道光都带着挥之不去的遗憾离开了她，就像孩子们在黄昏时离开了一条宜人的街道。

The butler came back and murmured something close to Tom’s ear whereupon Tom frowned, pushed back his chair and without a word went inside. As if his absence quickened something within her Daisy leaned forward again, her voice glowing and singing.
管家回来了，在汤姆耳边低声说了些什么，汤姆皱起眉头，推开椅子，一言不发地走了进去。仿佛他的缺席加速了黛西体内的某些东西，黛西再次向前倾身，她的声音闪闪发光，歌唱着。

‘I love to see you at my table, Nick. You remind me of a—of a rose, an absolute rose. Doesn’t he?’ She turned to Miss Baker for confirmation. ‘An absolute rose?’
“我很高兴在我的餐桌上见到你，尼克。你让我想起一朵玫瑰，一朵绝对的玫瑰。不是吗？”她转向贝克小姐寻求确认。 “绝对的玫瑰？”

This was untrue. I am not even faintly like a rose. She was only extemporizing but a stirring warmth flowed from her as if her heart was trying to come out to you concealed in one of those breathless, thrilling words. Then suddenly she threw her napkin on the table and excused herself and went into the house.
这是不真实的。我一点也不像玫瑰。她只是即兴发挥，但她却从她身上流露出一股激动人心的温暖，仿佛她的心正试图向你倾诉，藏在那些令人喘不过气来的激动人心的话语中。然后她突然把餐巾扔在桌子上，告辞走进屋里。

Miss Baker and I exchanged a short glance consciously devoid of meaning. I was about to speak when she sat up alertly and said ‘Sh!’ in a warning voice. A subdued impassioned murmur was audible in the room beyond and Miss Baker leaned forward, unashamed, trying to hear. The murmur trembled on the verge of coherence, sank down, mounted excitedly, and then ceased altogether.
贝克小姐和我有意识地交换了一眼，但毫无意义。我正要说话，她警觉地坐了起来，用警告的声音说“嘘！”。远处的房间里传来一阵低沉而热情的低语声，贝克小姐毫不羞愧地向前倾身，试图听听。低语声在连贯的边缘颤抖着，低沉下来，兴奋地上升，然后完全停止。

‘This Mr. Gatsby you spoke of is my neighbor——’ I said.
“你说的这位盖茨比先生是我的邻居——”我说。

‘Don’t talk. I want to hear what happens.’
‘别说话。我想听听会发生什么。

‘Is something happening?’ I inquired innocently.
“有什么事吗？”我天真地问道。

‘You mean to say you don’t know?’ said Miss Baker, honestly surprised. ‘I thought everybody knew.’
“你的意思是说你不知道？”贝克小姐说，她真的很惊讶。 “我以为每个人都知道。”

‘I don’t.’
'我不。'

‘Why——’ she said hesitantly, ‘Tom’s got some woman in New York.’
“为什么——”她犹豫地说，“汤姆在纽约有一个女人。”

‘Got some woman?’ I repeated blankly.
“有女人吗？”我茫然地重复道。

Miss Baker nodded.
贝克小姐点点头。

‘She might have the decency not to telephone him at dinner-time. Don’t you think?’
“她也许有礼貌，不会在晚餐时间给他打电话。你不觉得吗？

Almost before I had grasped her meaning there was the flutter of a dress and the crunch of leather boots and Tom and Daisy were back at the table.
几乎在我明白她的意思之前，裙子飘动，皮靴嘎吱作响，汤姆和黛西回到了桌边。

‘It couldn’t be helped!’ cried Daisy with tense gayety.
“没办法！”黛西紧张而高兴地喊道。

She sat down, glanced searchingly at Miss Baker and then at me and continued: ‘I looked outdoors for a minute and it’s very romantic outdoors. There’s a bird on the lawn that I think must be a nightingale come over on the Cunard or White Star Line. He’s singing away——’ her voice sang ‘——It’s romantic, isn’t it, Tom?’
她坐下来，探寻地看了一眼贝克小姐，然后又看了我一眼，继续说道：“我看了一会儿户外，户外非常浪漫。”草坪上有一只鸟，我想它一定是冠达邮轮或白星航运公司过来的夜莺。他在唱歌——”她的声音唱道，“——这很浪漫，不是吗，汤姆？

‘Very romantic,’ he said, and then miserably to me: ‘If it’s light enough after dinner I want to take you down to the stables.’
“非常浪漫，”他说，然后痛苦地对我说：“如果晚饭后天色足够亮的话，我想带你去马厩。”

The telephone rang inside, startlingly, and as Daisy shook her head decisively at Tom the subject of the stables, in fact all subjects, vanished into air. Among the broken fragments of the last five minutes at table I remember the candles being lit again, pointlessly, and I was conscious of wanting to look squarely at every one and yet to avoid all eyes. I couldn’t guess what Daisy and Tom were thinking but I doubt if even Miss Baker who seemed to have mastered a certain hardy skepticism was able utterly to put this fifth guest’s shrill metallic urgency out of mind. To a certain temperament the situation might have seemed intriguing—my own instinct was to telephone immediately for the police.
电话铃响了，令人吃惊，当黛西果断地向汤姆摇摇头时，马厩的话题，事实上所有的话题，都消失在空气中。在餐桌上最后五分钟的碎片中，我记得蜡烛再次毫无意义地被点燃，我意识到想要正视每一个人，但又要避开所有人的目光。我无法猜测黛西和汤姆在想什么，但我怀疑即使是似乎掌握了某种顽强怀疑论的贝克小姐也能完全忘记第五位客人尖锐的金属紧迫感。对于某些人来说，这种情况可能看起来很有趣——我自己的本能是立即打电话报警。

The horses, needless to say, were not mentioned again. Tom and Miss Baker, with several feet of twilight between them strolled back into the library, as if to a vigil beside a perfectly tangible body, while trying to look pleasantly interested and a little deaf I followed Daisy around a chain of connecting verandas to the porch in front. In its deep gloom we sat down side by side on a wicker settee.
不用说，再也没有提到过马匹。汤姆和贝克小姐，隔着几英尺的暮光，漫步回到图书馆，仿佛在一具完全有形的身体旁边守夜，同时试图表现出愉快的兴趣，但有点聋，我跟着黛西绕了一串连接阳台到图书馆。门廊在前面。在幽暗的夜色中，我们并排坐在一张柳条长椅上。

Daisy took her face in her hands, as if feeling its lovely shape, and her eyes moved gradually out into the velvet dusk. I saw that turbulent emotions possessed her, so I asked what I thought would be some sedative questions about her little girl.
黛西双手捧着脸，仿佛感受着它可爱的形状，她的眼睛逐渐移向天鹅绒般的暮色。我看到她的情绪激动不已，所以我问了一些我认为可以让她的小女儿平静下来的问题。

‘We don’t know each other very well, Nick,’ she said suddenly. ‘Even if we are cousins. You didn’t come to my wedding.’
“我们彼此不太了解，尼克，”她突然说道。 ‘即使我们是表兄弟。你没有来参加我的婚礼。

‘I wasn’t back from the war.’
“我还没有从战争中回来。”

‘That’s true.’ She hesitated. ‘Well, I’ve had a very bad time, Nick, and I’m pretty cynical about everything.’
“确实如此。”她犹豫了一下。 “嗯，我过得很糟糕，尼克，我对一切都很愤世嫉俗。”

Evidently she had reason to be. I waited but she didn’t say any more, and after a moment I returned rather feebly to the subject of her daughter.
显然她有理由这样做。我等了一会儿，但她没有再说什么，过了一会儿，我又无力地回到她女儿的话题上。

‘I suppose she talks, and—eats, and everything.’
“我想她会说话，并且——吃东西，等等。”

‘Oh, yes.’ She looked at me absently. ‘Listen, Nick; let me tell you what I said when she was born. Would you like to hear?’
“哦，是的。”她心不在焉地看着我。 “听着，尼克；让我告诉你她出生时我说了什么。你想听吗？

‘Very much.’
'非常。'

‘It’ll show you how I’ve gotten to feel about—things. Well, she was less than an hour old and Tom was God knows where. I woke up out of the ether with an utterly abandoned feeling and asked the nurse right away if it was a boy or a girl. She told me it was a girl, and so I turned my head away and wept. ‘All right,’ I said, ‘I’m glad it’s a girl. And I hope she’ll be a fool—that’s the best thing a girl can be in this world, a beautiful little fool.’
“它会告诉你我对——事物的感受。”好吧，她出生还不到一个小时，而汤姆天知道在哪里。我从乙醚中醒来，有一种完全被遗弃的感觉，我立即问护士是男孩还是女孩。她告诉我那是个女孩，所以我转过头哭了。 “好吧，”我说，“我很高兴是个女孩。”我希望她是个傻瓜——这是一个女孩在这个世界上能做的最好的事情，一个美丽的小傻瓜。”

‘You see I think everything’s terrible anyhow,’ she went on in a convinced way. ‘Everybody thinks so—the most advanced people. And I KNOW. I’ve been everywhere and seen everything and done everything.’ Her eyes flashed around her in a defiant way, rather like Tom’s, and she laughed with thrilling scorn. ‘Sophisticated—God, I’m sophisticated!’
“你看，无论如何，我认为一切都很糟糕，”她以一种令人信服的方式继续说道。 ‘每个人都这么认为——最先进的人。而且我知道。 “我去过所有地方，见过所有事情，做过所有事情。”她的眼睛以一种挑衅的方式扫视着自己，很像汤姆的眼睛，她带着令人毛骨悚然的轻蔑笑了。 “老练——天哪，我老练了！”

The instant her voice broke off, ceasing to compel my attention, my belief, I felt the basic insincerity of what she had said. It made me uneasy, as though the whole evening had been a trick of some sort to exact a contributory emotion from me. I waited, and sure enough, in a moment she looked at me with an absolute smirk on her lovely face as if she had asserted her membership in a rather distinguished secret society to which she and Tom belonged.
当她的声音戛然而止，不再吸引我的注意力、我的信念时，我感觉到她所说的话根本不真诚。这让我感到不安，仿佛整个晚上都是某种骗局，目的是从我身上索取某种情感。我等待着，果然，过了一会儿，她可爱的脸上带着绝对的傻笑看着我，仿佛她已经宣称自己是她和汤姆所属的一个相当著名的秘密社团的成员。

Inside, the crimson room bloomed with light. Tom and Miss Baker sat at either end of the long couch and she read aloud to him from the ‘Saturday Evening Post’—the words, murmurous and uninflected, running together in a soothing tune. The lamp-light, bright on his boots and dull on the autumn-leaf yellow of her hair, glinted along the paper as she turned a page with a flutter of slender muscles in her arms.
里面，猩红的房间里绽放出光芒。汤姆和贝克小姐分别坐在长沙发的两端，她大声朗读《周六晚邮报》的文章给他听，这些文字低声细语，毫无语调，以一种舒缓的曲调连在一起。灯光在他的靴子上明亮，在她秋叶般的黄色头发上暗淡无光，当她翻动一页纸时，手臂上纤细的肌肉在颤动，灯光在纸上闪闪发光。

When we came in she held us silent for a moment with a lifted hand.
当我们进来时，她举起一只手，让我们安静了一会儿。

‘To be continued,’ she said, tossing the magazine on the table, ‘in our very next issue.’
“待续，”她说着，把杂志扔到桌子上，“在我们的下一期中。”

Her body asserted itself with a restless movement of her knee, and she stood up.
她的膝盖不安地运动着，她的身体站了起来。

‘Ten o’clock,’ she remarked, apparently finding the time on the ceiling. ‘Time for this good girl to go to bed.’
“十点钟，”她说道，显然是在天花板上找到了时间。 “这个好女孩该去睡觉了。”

‘Jordan’s going to play in the tournament tomorrow,’ explained Daisy, ‘over at Westchester.’
“乔丹明天将参加比赛，”黛西解释道，“在威彻斯特。”

‘Oh,—you’re JORdan Baker.’
“哦，你是乔丹·贝克。”

I knew now why her face was familiar—its pleasing contemptuous expression had looked out at me from many rotogravure pictures of the sporting life at Asheville and Hot Springs and Palm Beach. I had heard some story of her too, a critical, unpleasant story, but what it was I had forgotten long ago.
我现在知道为什么她的脸很熟悉了——在许多关于阿什维尔、温泉城和棕榈滩体育生活的凹版照片中，她那令人愉悦的轻蔑表情看着我。我也听说过一些关于她的故事，一个批评性的、令人不快的故事，但那是什么我早已忘记了。

‘Good night,’ she said softly. ‘Wake me at eight, won’t you.’
“晚安，”她轻声说。 “八点叫醒我，好吗？”

‘If you’ll get up.’
“如果你能起来的话。”

‘I will. Good night, Mr. Carraway. See you anon.’
'我会。晚安，卡拉威先生。一会儿见。

‘Of course you will,’ confirmed Daisy. ‘In fact I think I’ll arrange a marriage. Come over often, Nick, and I’ll sort of—oh—fling you together. You know—lock you up accidentally in linen closets and push you out to sea in a boat, and all that sort of thing——‘
“你当然会的，”黛西确认道。 “事实上，我想我会安排婚姻。尼克，经常过来，我会——哦——把你们带到一起。你知道的——不小心把你锁在亚麻壁橱里，然后用船把你推到海上，诸如此类的事情——”

‘Good night,’ called Miss Baker from the stairs. ‘I haven’t heard a word.’
“晚安，”贝克小姐在楼梯上喊道。 “我什么也没听到。”

‘She’s a nice girl,’ said Tom after a moment. ‘They oughtn’t to let her run around the country this way.’
“她是一个好女孩，”过了一会儿汤姆说道。 “他们不应该让她这样在全国各地奔跑。”

‘Who oughtn’t to?’ inquired Daisy coldly.
“谁不应该这样做？”黛西冷冷地问道。

‘Her family.’
'她的家人。'

‘Her family is one aunt about a thousand years old. Besides, Nick’s going to look after her, aren’t you, Nick? She’s going to spend lots of week-ends out here this summer. I think the home influence will be very good for her.’
‘她家有一位大约一千岁的阿姨。此外，尼克会照顾她，不是吗，尼克？今年夏天她将在这里度过很多周末。我认为家庭影响力对她来说非常有好处。

Daisy and Tom looked at each other for a moment in silence.
黛西和汤姆沉默地对视了一会儿。

‘Is she from New York?’ I asked quickly.
“她是纽约人吗？”我赶紧问道。

‘From Louisville. Our white girlhood was passed together there. Our beautiful white——‘
“来自路易斯维尔。”我们的白人少女时代就是在那里一起度过的。我们美丽的白色——’

‘Did you give Nick a little heart to heart talk on the veranda?’ demanded Tom suddenly.
“你在阳台上和尼克进行过一次心与心的交谈吗？”汤姆突然问道。

‘Did I?’ She looked at me. ‘I can’t seem to remember, but I think we talked about the Nordic race. Yes, I’m sure we did. It sort of crept up on us and first thing you know——‘
“是吗？”她看着我。 “我似乎不记得了，但我想我们谈论过北欧比赛。是的，我确信我们做到了。它悄然降临到我们身上，你知道的第一件事——”

‘Don’t believe everything you hear, Nick,’ he advised me.
“尼克，不要相信你听到的一切，”他建议我。

I said lightly that I had heard nothing at all, and a few minutes later I got up to go home. They came to the door with me and stood side by side in a cheerful square of light. As I started my motor Daisy peremptorily called ‘Wait!
我淡淡地说我什么也没听到，几分钟后我就起身回家了。他们和我一起来到门口，并排站在一片欢快的灯光下。当我启动我的马达时，黛西专横地叫道：“等等！”

‘I forgot to ask you something, and it’s important. We heard you were engaged to a girl out West.’
“我忘了问你一件事，这很重要。我们听说你和西部的一个女孩订婚了。

‘That’s right,’ corroborated Tom kindly. ‘We heard that you were engaged.’
“没错，”汤姆善意地证实道。 “我们听说你订婚了。”

‘It’s libel. I’m too poor.’
‘这是诽谤。我太穷了。

‘But we heard it,’ insisted Daisy, surprising me by opening up again in a flower-like way. ‘We heard it from three people so it must be true.’
“但我们听到了，”黛西坚持说，她以花朵般的方式再次开放，让我感到惊讶。 “我们从三个人那里听到了这件事，所以这一定是真的。”

Of course I knew what they were referring to, but I wasn’t even vaguely engaged. The fact that gossip had published the banns was one of the reasons I had come east. You can’t stop going with an old friend on account of rumors and on the other hand I had no intention of being rumored into marriage.
我当然知道他们指的是什么，但我什至没有含糊其辞。流言蜚语发布了禁令，这是我来到东部的原因之一。你不能因为谣言而不再和老朋友在一起，而另一方面，我也无意被传言结婚。

Their interest rather touched me and made them less remotely rich—nevertheless, I was confused and a little disgusted as I drove away. It seemed to me that the thing for Daisy to do was to rush out of the house, child in arms—but apparently there were no such intentions in her head. As for Tom, the fact that he ‘had some woman in New York’ was really less surprising than that he had been depressed by a book. Something was making him nibble at the edge of stale ideas as if his sturdy physical egotism no longer nourished his peremptory heart.
他们的兴趣相当触动了我，让他们变得不那么富有了——尽管如此，当我开车离开时，我感到困惑和有点厌恶。在我看来，黛西要做的就是抱着孩子冲出家门——但显然她脑子里并没有这样的意图。至于汤姆，他“在纽约有一个女人”这一事实并不比他因一本书而感到沮丧更令人惊讶。某种东西正在让他蚕食陈旧观念的边缘，仿佛他那坚固的身体自我主义不再滋养他专横的心。

Already it was deep summer on roadhouse roofs and in front of wayside garages, where new red gas-pumps sat out in pools of light, and when I reached my estate at West Egg I ran the car under its shed and sat for a while on an abandoned grass roller in the yard. The wind had blown off, leaving a loud bright night with wings beating in the trees and a persistent organ sound as the full bellows of the earth blew the frogs full of life. The silhouette of a moving cat wavered across the moonlight and turning my head to watch it I saw that I was not alone—fifty feet away a figure had emerged from the shadow of my neighbor’s mansion and was standing with his hands in his pockets regarding the silver pepper of the stars. Something in his leisurely movements and the secure position of his feet upon the lawn suggested that it was Mr. Gatsby himself, come out to determine what share was his of our local heavens.
路边小屋的屋顶和路边车库前已经是深夏了，新的红色加油泵停在光亮的池子里，当我到达西埃格的庄园时，我把车开到棚子下，在车上坐了一会儿。院子里有一个废弃的压草机。风已经停了，留下了一个响亮明亮的夜晚，翅膀在树上拍打，大地的轰鸣声吹响了青蛙的生命，持续不断的风琴声。一只移动的猫的剪影在月光下摇曳，我转过头看它，我发现我并不孤单——五十英尺外，一个人影从我邻居豪宅的阴影中出现，双手插在口袋里站着，看着那座房子。星星的银胡椒。从他悠闲的动作和他的脚在草坪上的稳固位置来看，盖茨比先生本人正在出来，来决定他在我们当地的天空中拥有什么份额。

I decided to call to him. Miss Baker had mentioned him at dinner, and that would do for an introduction. But I didn’t call to him for he gave a sudden intimation that he was content to be alone—he stretched out his arms toward the dark water in a curious way, and far as I was from him I could have sworn he was trembling. Involuntarily I glanced seaward—and distinguished nothing except a single green light, minute and far away, that might have been the end of a dock. When I looked once more for Gatsby he had vanished, and I was alone again in the unquiet darkness.
我决定给他打电话。贝克小姐在晚餐时提到过他，这样就可以作为介绍了。但我没有叫他，因为他突然暗示他很满足于一个人——他以一种奇怪的方式向黑暗的水面伸出双臂，尽管我离他很远，但我可以发誓他正在发抖。 。我不由自主地朝大海看了一眼——除了一盏绿灯，什么也看不见，那盏绿灯又小又远，那可能是码头的尽头。当我再次寻找盖茨比时，他已经消失了，我又独自一人在不安宁的黑暗中。

Chapter 2
第2章

About half way between West Egg and New York the motor-road hastily joins the railroad and runs beside it for a quarter of a mile, so as to shrink away from a certain desolate area of land. This is a valley of ashes—a fantastic farm where ashes grow like wheat into ridges and hills and grotesque gardens where ashes take the forms of houses and chimneys and rising smoke and finally, with a transcendent effort, of men who move dimly and already crumbling through the powdery air. Occasionally a line of grey cars crawls along an invisible track, gives out a ghastly creak and comes to rest, and immediately the ash-grey men swarm up with leaden spades and stir up an impenetrable cloud which screens their obscure operations from your sight.
大约在西埃格和纽约之间的半路上，汽车公路匆忙地与铁路汇合，并在铁路旁边延伸了四分之一英里，以便避开某个荒凉的土地。这是一个灰烬之谷——一个奇妙的农场，灰烬像小麦一样生长在山脊、山丘和怪诞的花园里，灰烬变成了房屋、烟囱和升起的烟雾，最后，在超凡的努力下，人们的行动模糊不清，已经摇摇欲坠。透过粉状的空气。偶尔，一排灰色汽车沿着一条看不见的轨道爬行，发出可怕的吱吱声，然后停下来，然后灰灰色的人立即拿着铅铲蜂拥而上，掀起一片难以穿透的云，将他们晦涩的操作从你的视线中屏蔽掉。

But above the grey land and the spasms of bleak dust which drift endlessly over it, you perceive, after a moment, the eyes of Doctor T. J. Eckleburg. The eyes of Doctor T. J. Eckleburg are blue and gigantic—their retinas are one yard high. They look out of no face but, instead, from a pair of enormous yellow spectacles which pass over a nonexistent nose. Evidently some wild wag of an oculist set them there to fatten his practice in the borough of Queens, and then sank down himself into eternal blindness or forgot them and moved away. But his eyes, dimmed a little by many paintless days under sun and rain, brood on over the solemn dumping ground.
但在灰色的土地和无休无止地飘过的荒凉尘埃之上，片刻之后，你会看到T·J·埃克尔伯格医生的眼睛。 T. J. Eckleburg 医生的眼睛是蓝色的、巨大的——他们的视网膜有一码高。他们不是从脸上看的，而是从一副巨大的黄色眼镜上看的，眼镜架在一个不存在的鼻子上。显然，一位眼科医生的疯狂举动将它们放在那里，以丰富他在皇后区的实践，然后让自己陷入永远的失明，或者忘记它们并搬走。但他的眼睛因日晒雨淋、没有画画的日子而变得有些暗淡，凝视着庄严的垃圾场。

The valley of ashes is bounded on one side by a small foul river, and when the drawbridge is up to let barges through, the passengers on waiting trains can stare at the dismal scene for as long as half an hour. There is always a halt there of at least a minute and it was because of this that I first met Tom Buchanan’s mistress.
灰烬谷的一侧是一条肮脏的小河，当吊桥升起让驳船通过时，等待火车上的乘客可以盯着这凄凉的场景长达半个小时。那里总是至少有一分钟的停留，正是因为这个，我第一次见到了汤姆·布坎南的情妇。

The fact that he had one was insisted upon wherever he was known. His acquaintances resented the fact that he turned up in popular restaurants with her and, leaving her at a table, sauntered about, chatting with whomsoever he knew. Though I was curious to see her I had no desire to meet her—but I did. I went up to New York with Tom on the train one afternoon and when we stopped by the ashheaps he jumped to his feet and taking hold of my elbow literally forced me from the car.
无论他在哪里，人们都坚持认为他拥有一个。他的熟人对他和她一起出现在受欢迎的餐馆，却把她留在一张桌子旁，四处闲逛，与他认识的任何人聊天这一事实感到不满。虽然我很好奇想见她，但我并不想见她——但我还是见了面。一天下午，我和汤姆一起坐火车去纽约，当我们停在灰堆旁时，他跳了起来，抓住我的胳膊肘，几乎把我从车里逼了下去。

‘We’re getting off!’ he insisted. ‘I want you to meet my girl.’
“我们要下车了！”他坚持道。 “我想让你见见我的女孩。”

I think he’d tanked up a good deal at luncheon and his determination to have my company bordered on violence. The supercilious assumption was that on Sunday afternoon I had nothing better to do.
我认为他在午餐时已经吃了很多苦头，他对我的陪伴的决心近乎暴力。傲慢的假设是周日下午我没有更好的事情可做。

I followed him over a low white-washed railroad fence and we walked back a hundred yards along the road under Doctor Eckleburg’s persistent stare. The only building in sight was a small block of yellow brick sitting on the edge of the waste land, a sort of compact Main Street ministering to it and contiguous to absolutely nothing. One of the three shops it contained was for rent and another was an all-night restaurant approached by a trail of ashes; the third was a garage—Repairs. GEORGE B. WILSON. Cars Bought and Sold—and I followed Tom inside.
我跟着他越过一道低矮的白色铁栅栏，在埃克尔伯格医生执着的注视下，我们沿着路往回走了一百码。视野中唯一的建筑是坐落在荒地边缘的一小块黄色砖块，是一条为它服务的紧凑的主街，但与任何东西都相邻。里面的三间店铺中，一间是出租的，另一间是一家通宵营业的餐厅，附近有一条灰烬痕迹。第三个是车库——修理。乔治·B·威尔逊。汽车买卖——我跟着汤姆进去了。

The interior was unprosperous and bare; the only car visible was the dust-covered wreck of a Ford which crouched in a dim corner. It had occurred to me that this shadow of a garage must be a blind and that sumptuous and romantic apartments were concealed overhead when the proprietor himself appeared in the door of an office, wiping his hands on a piece of waste. He was a blonde, spiritless man, anaemic, and faintly handsome. When he saw us a damp gleam of hope sprang into his light blue eyes.
里面破败不堪，空荡荡的。唯一可见的汽车是一辆福特汽车的残骸，它蹲在一个昏暗的角落里，满是灰尘。当老板亲自出现在办公室门口，用一块垃圾擦拭双手时，我突​​然想到车库的影子一定是百叶窗，豪华而浪漫的公寓就隐藏在头顶上。他是一个金发碧眼、毫无精神、贫血、略显英俊的男人。当他看到我们时，淡蓝色的眼睛里闪出了一丝潮湿的希望之光。

‘Hello, Wilson, old man,’ said Tom, slapping him jovially on the shoulder. ‘How’s business?’
“你好，威尔逊，老伙计，”汤姆说着，高兴地拍了拍他的肩膀。 '生意如何？'

‘I can’t complain,’ answered Wilson unconvincingly. ‘When are you going to sell me that car?’
“我不能抱怨，”威尔逊不令人信服地回答。 “你什么时候把那辆车卖给我？”

‘Next week; I’ve got my man working on it now.’
'下周;我现在已经让我的人在做这件事了。

‘Works pretty slow, don’t he?’
“工作很慢，不是吗？”

‘No, he doesn’t,’ said Tom coldly. ‘And if you feel that way about it, maybe I’d better sell it somewhere else after all.’
“不，他不知道，”汤姆冷冷地说。 “如果你有这样的感觉，也许我最好把它卖到别的地方。”

‘I don’t mean that,’ explained Wilson quickly. ‘I just meant——‘
“我不是那个意思。”威尔逊很快解释道。 “我只是想说——”

His voice faded off and Tom glanced impatiently around the garage. Then I heard footsteps on a stairs and in a moment the thickish figure of a woman blocked out the light from the office door. She was in the middle thirties, and faintly stout, but she carried her surplus flesh sensuously as some women can. Her face, above a spotted dress of dark blue crepe-de-chine, contained no facet or gleam of beauty but there was an immediately perceptible vitality about her as if the nerves of her body were continually smouldering. She smiled slowly and walking through her husband as if he were a ghost shook hands with Tom, looking him flush in the eye. Then she wet her lips and without turning around spoke to her husband in a soft, coarse voice:
他的声音渐渐消失，汤姆不耐烦地环视车库。然后我听到楼梯上有脚步声，不一会儿，一个女人粗壮的身影挡住了办公室门外的光线。她三十多岁，有点胖，但她像某些女人一样性感地保留着多余的肉。她的脸罩着一件深蓝色双绉斑点连衣裙，没有任何美感，也没有任何光芒，但她身上立刻就有一种明显的活力，仿佛她身体的神经在不断闷烧。她慢慢地微笑着，走过她的丈夫，就像他是一个幽灵一样，与汤姆握手，看着他红红的眼睛。然后她润湿了嘴唇，头也不回地用柔和而粗哑的声音对丈夫说道：

‘Get some chairs, why don’t you, so somebody can sit down.’
“拿些椅子来，为什么不呢，这样有人就可以坐下来。”

‘Oh, sure,’ agreed Wilson hurriedly and went toward the little office, mingling immediately with the cement color of the walls. A white ashen dust veiled his dark suit and his pale hair as it veiled everything in the vicinity—except his wife, who moved close to Tom.
“哦，当然，”威尔逊急忙同意，然后走向那间小办公室，立即与水泥墙的颜色融为一体。白色的灰烬遮住了他的深色西装和苍白的头发，也遮住了附近的一切——除了他的妻子，她靠近汤姆。

‘I want to see you,’ said Tom intently. ‘Get on the next train.’
“我想见你，”汤姆专心地说。 “乘下一班火车。”

‘All right.’
'好的。'

‘I’ll meet you by the news-stand on the lower level.’
“我会在楼下的报刊亭等你。”

She nodded and moved away from him just as George Wilson emerged with two chairs from his office door.
她点点头，从他身边走开，这时乔治·威尔逊拿着两把椅子从办公室门口出现。

We waited for her down the road and out of sight. It was a few days before the Fourth of July, and a grey, scrawny Italian child was setting torpedoes in a row along the railroad track.
我们在路边等她，直到看不见。距离国庆节还有几天，一个灰白、骨瘦如柴的意大利孩子正在铁轨上排成一排鱼雷。

‘Terrible place, isn’t it,’ said Tom, exchanging a frown with Doctor Eckleburg.
“真是个可怕的地方，不是吗？”汤姆说着，与埃克尔伯格医生皱起了眉头。

‘Awful.’
'可怕。'

‘It does her good to get away.’
“离开对她有好处。”

‘Doesn’t her husband object?’
“她丈夫不反对吗？”

‘Wilson? He thinks she goes to see her sister in New York. He’s so dumb he doesn’t know he’s alive.’
‘威尔逊？他认为她去纽约看她姐姐了。他太蠢了，都不知道自己还活着。”

So Tom Buchanan and his girl and I went up together to New York—or not quite together, for Mrs. Wilson sat discreetly in another car. Tom deferred that much to the sensibilities of those East Eggers who might be on the train.
于是汤姆·布坎南和他的女儿和我一起去了纽约——或者说不是一起去的，因为威尔逊夫人小心翼翼地坐在另一辆车里。汤姆在很大程度上尊重那些可能在火车上的东艾格人的感受。

She had changed her dress to a brown figured muslin which stretched tight over her rather wide hips as Tom helped her to the platform in New York. At the news-stand she bought a copy of ‘Town Tattle’ and a moving-picture magazine and, in the station drug store, some cold cream and a small flask of perfume. Upstairs, in the solemn echoing drive she let four taxi cabs drive away before she selected a new one, lavender-colored with grey upholstery, and in this we slid out from the mass of the station into the glowing sunshine. But immediately she turned sharply from the window and leaning forward tapped on the front glass.
当汤姆扶她登上纽约的站台时，她把裙子换成了一件棕色花纹平纹细布，这条裙子紧紧地遮住了她相当宽阔的臀部。她在报摊买了一本《小镇闲话》和一本电影杂志，还在车站药店买了一些冷霜和一小瓶香水。楼上，在庄严回响的车道上，她让四辆出租车开走了，然后她又选了一辆新的，淡紫色，灰色内饰，就这样，我们从车站的人群中滑了出来，进入了灿烂的阳光。但她立即猛地从窗户转过身来，向前倾身敲击前玻璃。

‘I want to get one of those dogs,’ she said earnestly. ‘I want to get one for the apartment. They’re nice to have—a dog.’
“我想养一只这样的狗，”她认真地说。 “我想为公寓买一件。拥有它们真是太好了——一只狗。

We backed up to a grey old man who bore an absurd resemblance to John D. Rockefeller. In a basket, swung from his neck, cowered a dozen very recent puppies of an indeterminate breed.
我们支持一位头发花白的老人，他与约翰·D·洛克菲勒有着惊人的相似之处。他脖子上挂着一个篮子，里面藏着十几只最近出生的小狗，品种不详。

‘What kind are they?’ asked Mrs. Wilson eagerly as he came to the taxi-window.
“它们是什么种类的？”当他来到出租车窗口时，威尔逊太太急切地问道。

‘All kinds. What kind do you want, lady?’
'所有种类。女士，您想要什么类型的？

‘I’d like to get one of those police dogs; I don’t suppose you got that kind?’
“我想要一只警犬；我想你不会是那种人吧？

The man peered doubtfully into the basket, plunged in his hand and drew one up, wriggling, by the back of the neck.
那人疑惑地朝篮子里看了一眼，伸手一伸，从后颈处抽出一只，蠕动着。

‘That’s no police dog,’ said Tom.
“那不是警犬，”汤姆说。

‘No, it’s not exactly a polICE dog,’ said the man with disappointment in his voice. ‘It’s more of an airedale.’ He passed his hand over the brown wash-rag of a back. ‘Look at that coat. Some coat. That’s a dog that’ll never bother you with catching cold.’
“不，这不完全是警犬。”男子语气失望地说。 “这更像是一只大狗。”他把手放在棕色的抹布背上。 ‘看看那件外套。一些外套。那是一只永远不会让你感冒的狗。

‘I think it’s cute,’ said Mrs. Wilson enthusiastically. ‘How much is it?’
“我觉得它很可爱，”威尔逊夫人热情地说。 '多少钱？'

‘That dog?’ He looked at it admiringly. ‘That dog will cost you ten dollars.’
“那只狗？”他钦佩地看着它。 “那条狗要花你十美元。”

The airedale—undoubtedly there was an airedale concerned in it somewhere though its feet were startlingly white—changed hands and settled down into Mrs. Wilson’s lap, where she fondled the weather-proof coat with rapture.
那只大羚羊——毫无疑问，它的某个地方确实有一只大羚羊，尽管它的脚白得惊人——换了手，落在威尔逊夫人的腿上，她欣喜若狂地抚摸着那件防风雨的外套。

‘Is it a boy or a girl?’ she asked delicately.
“是男孩还是女孩？”她小心翼翼地问道。

‘That dog? That dog’s a boy.’
‘那只狗？那只狗是个男孩。

‘It’s a bitch,’ said Tom decisively. ‘Here’s your money. Go and buy ten more dogs with it.’
“这是个婊子。”汤姆果断地说。 ‘这是你的钱。去再买十只狗吧。

We drove over to Fifth Avenue, so warm and soft, almost pastoral, on the summer Sunday afternoon that I wouldn’t have been surprised to see a great flock of white sheep turn the corner.
我们驱车前往第五大道，这里温暖而柔和，几乎充满田园气息，在夏日的周日下午，如果我看到一大群白色的羊从拐角处转过，我不会感到惊讶。

‘Hold on,’ I said, ‘I have to leave you here.’
“等一下，”我说，“我得把你留在这里了。”

‘No, you don’t,’ interposed Tom quickly. ‘Myrtle’ll be hurt if you don’t come up to the apartment. Won’t you, Myrtle?’
“不，你不知道，”汤姆很快插话道。 “如果你不来公寓，默特尔就会受伤。”你愿意吗，默特尔？

‘Come on,’ she urged. ‘I’ll telephone my sister Catherine. She’s said to be very beautiful by people who ought to know.’
“来吧，”她催促道。 “我会给我姐姐凯瑟琳打电话。应该知道的人都说她非常美丽。

‘Well, I’d like to, but——‘
“嗯，我愿意，但是——”

We went on, cutting back again over the Park toward the West Hundreds. At 158th Street the cab stopped at one slice in a long white cake of apartment houses. Throwing a regal homecoming glance around the neighborhood, Mrs. Wilson gathered up her dog and her other purchases and went haughtily in.
我们继续前行，再次绕道穿过公园，朝西百街前进。到了 158 街，出租车停在一片长长的白色公寓楼的一片区域。威尔逊夫人以富丽堂皇的归家风范环视了附近一圈，然后收拾起她的狗和她买的其他东西，傲慢地走了进去。

‘I’m going to have the McKees come up,’ she announced as we rose in the elevator. ‘And of course I got to call up my sister, too.’
“我要叫麦基一家上来，”当我们乘电梯上升时，她宣布。 “当然，我也得给我姐姐打电话。”

The apartment was on the top floor—a small living room, a small dining room, a small bedroom and a bath. The living room was crowded to the doors with a set of tapestried furniture entirely too large for it so that to move about was to stumble continually over scenes of ladies swinging in the gardens of Versailles. The only picture was an over-enlarged photograph, apparently a hen sitting on a blurred rock. Looked at from a distance however the hen resolved itself into a bonnet and the countenance of a stout old lady beamed down into the room. Several old copies of ‘Town Tattle ‘lay on the table together with a copy of ‘Simon Called Peter’ and some of the small scandal magazines of Broadway. Mrs. Wilson was first concerned with the dog. A reluctant elevator boy went for a box full of straw and some milk to which he added on his own initiative a tin of large hard dog biscuits—one of which decomposed apathetically in the saucer of milk all afternoon. Meanwhile Tom brought out a bottle of whiskey from a locked bureau door.
公寓位于顶楼，有一个小客厅、一个小餐厅、一个小卧室和一个浴室。客厅里的门边挤满了一套挂毯家具，它们太大了，以至于走动就会不断地被凡尔赛花园里的女士们荡秋千的场景绊倒。唯一的照片是一张过度放大的照片，显然是一只母鸡坐在一块模糊的岩石上。然而，从远处看，母鸡变成了一顶帽子，一位粗壮的老太太的面容微笑地照进了房间。桌子上放着几本旧的《小镇闲话》，还有一本《叫彼得的西蒙》和一些百老汇的小丑闻杂志。威尔逊夫人首先关心的是那只狗。一个不情愿的电梯男孩去拿了一个装满稻草和一些牛奶的盒子，他主动在其中添加了一罐大硬狗饼干——其中一个整个下午都在牛奶碟中冷漠地分解了。与此同时，汤姆从锁着的柜门里拿出一瓶威士忌。

I have been drunk just twice in my life and the second time was that afternoon so everything that happened has a dim hazy cast over it although until after eight o’clock the apartment was full of cheerful sun. Sitting on Tom’s lap Mrs. Wilson called up several people on the telephone; then there were no cigarettes and I went out to buy some at the drug store on the corner. When I came back they had disappeared so I sat down discreetly in the living room and read a chapter of ‘Simon Called Peter’—either it was terrible stuff or the whiskey distorted things because it didn’t make any sense to me.
我这辈子只喝醉过两次，第二次是那天下午，所以发生的一切都笼罩在一层朦胧的雾气中，尽管直到八点以后，公寓里都充满了欢快的阳光。威尔逊夫人坐在汤姆的腿上，给几个人打电话。然后没有香烟了，我就出去到街角的药店买了一些。当我回来时，它们已经消失了，所以我小心翼翼地坐在客厅里，读了《西蒙叫彼得》的一章——要么是可怕的东西，要么是威士忌扭曲了事情，因为它对我来说没有任何意义。

Just as Tom and Myrtle—after the first drink Mrs. Wilson and I called each other by our first names—reappeared, company commenced to arrive at the apartment door.
当汤姆和默特尔——在喝完第一杯酒之后，威尔逊夫人和我互相直呼其名——再次出现时，人们开始到达公寓门口。

The sister, Catherine, was a slender, worldly girl of about thirty with a solid sticky bob of red hair and a complexion powdered milky white. Her eyebrows had been plucked and then drawn on again at a more rakish angle but the efforts of nature toward the restoration of the old alignment gave a blurred air to her face. When she moved about there was an incessant clicking as innumerable pottery bracelets jingled up and down upon her arms. She came in with such a proprietary haste and looked around so possessively at the furniture that I wondered if she lived here. But when I asked her she laughed immoderately, repeated my question aloud and told me she lived with a girl friend at a hotel.
妹妹凯瑟琳是个身材苗条、世俗的女孩，三十岁左右，一头浓密的红色短发，肤色呈乳白色。她的眉毛被拔掉了，然后又以更潇洒的角度画了出来，但大自然为恢复原来的排列所做的努力给她的脸带来了一种模糊的感觉。当她走动时，无数陶器手镯在她手臂上上下叮当作响，发出不断的咔哒声。她带着一种特有的匆忙进来，充满占有欲地环顾四周的家具，我怀疑她是否住在这里。但当我问她时，她放肆地笑了，大声重复了我的问题，并告诉我她和一个女朋友住在一家酒店。

Mr. McKee was a pale feminine man from the flat below. He had just shaved for there was a white spot of lather on his cheekbone and he was most respectful in his greeting to everyone in the room. He informed me that he was in the ‘artistic game’ and I gathered later that he was a photographer and had made the dim enlargement of Mrs. Wilson’s mother which hovered like an ectoplasm on the wall. His wife was shrill, languid, handsome and horrible. She told me with pride that her husband had photographed her a hundred and twenty-seven times since they had been married.
麦基先生是来自楼下公寓的一位面色苍白的女性男子。他刚刚刮过胡子，因为他的颧骨上有一块白色的泡沫，他对房间里的每个人都非常尊重地打招呼。他告诉我，他正在玩“艺术游戏”，后来我才知道，他是一名摄影师，把威尔逊夫人的母亲放大了，像灵质一样悬浮在墙上。他的妻子声音尖细，无精打采，英俊却可怕。她自豪地告诉我，自从他们结婚以来，她的丈夫已经给她拍了一百二十七次照片。

Mrs. Wilson had changed her costume some time before and was now attired in an elaborate afternoon dress of cream colored chiffon, which gave out a continual rustle as she swept about the room. With the influence of the dress her personality had also undergone a change. The intense vitality that had been so remarkable in the garage was converted into impressive hauteur. Her laughter, her gestures, her assertions became more violently affected moment by moment and as she expanded the room grew smaller around her until she seemed to be revolving on a noisy, creaking pivot through the smoky air.
威尔逊夫人不久前换过服装，现在穿着一件精致的奶油色雪纺午后连衣裙，当她在房间里走来走去时，裙子发出持续的沙沙声。受到这件衣服的影响，她的性格也发生了变化。车库里原本非凡的旺盛活力，现在变成了令人印象深刻的傲慢。她的笑声、她的手势、她的主张每时每刻都变得更加猛烈，随着她的扩张，她周围的房间变得越来越小，直到她似乎在烟雾弥漫的空气中绕着一个嘈杂、吱吱作响的枢轴旋转。

‘My dear,’ she told her sister in a high mincing shout, ‘most of these fellas will cheat you every time. All they think of is money. I had a woman up here last week to look at my feet and when she gave me the bill you’d of thought she had my appendicitus out.’
“亲爱的，”她装腔作势地大声喊道，“这些家伙大多数每次都会欺骗你。”他们只想到钱。上周有一位女士来我这里检查我的脚，当她给我账单时，你会以为她把我的阑尾切除了。

‘What was the name of the woman?’ asked Mrs. McKee.
“那个女人叫什么名字？”麦基夫人问道。

‘Mrs. Eberhardt. She goes around looking at people’s feet in their own homes.’
'太太。艾伯哈特。她到处观察人们在自己家中的脚部。

‘I like your dress,’ remarked Mrs. McKee, ‘I think it’s adorable.’
“我喜欢你的衣服，”麦基夫人说，“我觉得它很可爱。”

Mrs. Wilson rejected the compliment by raising her eyebrow in disdain.
威尔逊夫人轻蔑地扬起了眉毛，拒绝了这种恭维。

‘It’s just a crazy old thing,’ she said. ‘I just slip it on sometimes when I don’t care what I look like.’
“这只是一个疯狂的老东西，”她说。 “有时当我不在乎自己的样子时，我就会戴上它。”

‘But it looks wonderful on you, if you know what I mean,’ pursued Mrs. McKee. ‘If Chester could only get you in that pose I think he could make something of it.’
“但如果你明白我的意思的话，你穿上它看起来很棒，”麦基夫人继续说道。 “如果切斯特能让你摆出那样的姿势，我想他就能有所作为。”

We all looked in silence at Mrs. Wilson who removed a strand of hair from over her eyes and looked back at us with a brilliant smile. Mr. McKee regarded her intently with his head on one side and then moved his hand back and forth slowly in front of his face.
我们都默默地看着威尔逊夫人，她拨开遮住眼睛的一缕头发，带着灿烂的微笑回头看着我们。麦基先生侧着头专注地看着她，然后把手在脸前慢慢地来回移动。

‘I should change the light,’ he said after a moment. ‘I’d like to bring out the modelling of the features. And I’d try to get hold of all the back hair.’
“我应该换一下灯，”过了一会儿他说道。 “我想展示特征的建模。我会尽力抓住所有后背的头发。

‘I wouldn’t think of changing the light,’ cried Mrs. McKee. ‘I think it’s——‘
“我不会考虑改变灯光，”麦基夫人喊道。 '我想这是 - '

Her husband said ‘SH!’ and we all looked at the subject again whereupon Tom Buchanan yawned audibly and got to his feet.
她丈夫说“嘘！”我们都再次看着这个话题，汤姆·布坎南打了个哈欠，站了起来。

‘You McKees have something to drink,’ he said. ‘Get some more ice and mineral water, Myrtle, before everybody goes to sleep.’
“你们麦基有东西喝，”他说。 “默特尔，在大家睡觉之前，再拿点冰块和矿泉水。”

‘I told that boy about the ice.’ Myrtle raised her eyebrows in despair at the shiftlessness of the lower orders. ‘These people! You have to keep after them all the time.’
“我跟那个男孩说了冰的事。”默特尔对下层的无能感到绝望，扬起了眉毛。 '这些人！你必须一直跟踪他们。

She looked at me and laughed pointlessly. Then she flounced over to the dog, kissed it with ecstasy and swept into the kitchen, implying that a dozen chefs awaited her orders there.
她看着我，毫无意义地笑了。然后她扑向狗，欣喜若狂地吻了它，然后快步走进厨房，暗示有十几名厨师在那里等待她的命令。

‘I’ve done some nice things out on Long Island,’ asserted Mr. McKee.
“我在长岛做了一些好事，”麦基先生断言。

Tom looked at him blankly.
汤姆茫然地看着他。

‘Two of them we have framed downstairs.’
“其中两幅我们已经在楼下装裱起来了。”

‘Two what?’ demanded Tom.
“两个什么？”汤姆问道。

‘Two studies. One of them I call ‘Montauk Point—the Gulls,’ and the other I call ‘Montauk Point—the Sea.’ ‘
'两项研究。其中一个我称之为“蒙托克角——海鸥”，另一个我称之为“蒙托克角——大海”。

The sister Catherine sat down beside me on the couch.
凯瑟琳修女坐在我旁边的沙发上。

‘Do you live down on Long Island, too?’ she inquired.
“你也住在长岛吗？”她问道。

‘I live at West Egg.’
“我住在西埃格。”

‘Really? I was down there at a party about a month ago. At a man named Gatsby’s. Do you know him?’
'真的吗？大约一个月前，我参加了一个聚会。一个叫盖茨比的男人。你认识他吗？'

‘I live next door to him.’
“我住在他隔壁。”

‘Well, they say he’s a nephew or a cousin of Kaiser Wilhelm’s. That’s where all his money comes from.’
“嗯，他们说他是威廉皇帝的侄子或表弟。这就是他所有的钱的来源。

‘Really?’
'真的吗？'

She nodded.
她点点头。

‘I’m scared of him. I’d hate to have him get anything on me.’
‘我害怕他。我不想让他在我身上得到任何东西。

This absorbing information about my neighbor was interrupted by Mrs. McKee’s pointing suddenly at Catherine:
关于我邻居的有趣信息被麦基夫人突然指着凯瑟琳打断了：

‘Chester, I think you could do something with HER,’ she broke out, but Mr. McKee only nodded in a bored way and turned his attention to Tom.
“切斯特，我想你可以对她做点什么，”她突然说道，但麦基先生只是无聊地点点头，然后把注意力转向汤姆。

‘I’d like to do more work on Long Island if I could get the entry. All I ask is that they should give me a start.’
“如果我能获得参赛资格，我想在长岛做更多的工作。我所要求的只是他们应该给我一个开始。

‘Ask Myrtle,’ said Tom, breaking into a short shout of laughter as Mrs. Wilson entered with a tray. ‘She’ll give you a letter of introduction, won’t you, Myrtle?’
“去问默特尔吧。”威尔逊夫人端着托盘进来时，汤姆突然大笑起来。 “她会给你一封介绍信，不是吗，默特尔？”

‘Do what?’ she asked, startled.
“做什么？”她惊讶地问道。

‘You’ll give McKee a letter of introduction to your husband, so he can do some studies of him.’ His lips moved silently for a moment as he invented. ‘ ‘George B. Wilson at the Gasoline Pump,’ or something like that.’
“你会给麦基一封介绍信给你的丈夫，这样他就可以对他进行一些研究。”他的嘴唇默默地动了一会儿，说道。 “‘乔治·B·威尔逊在汽油泵旁’，或者类似的话。”

Catherine leaned close to me and whispered in my ear: ‘Neither of them can stand the person they’re married to.’
凯瑟琳靠近我，在我耳边低声说道：“他们都无法忍受自己的结婚对象。”

‘Can’t they?’
“他们不能吗？”

‘Can’t STAND them.’ She looked at Myrtle and then at Tom. ‘What I say is, why go on living with them if they can’t stand them? If I was them I’d get a divorce and get married to each other right away.’
“受不了他们。”她看看默特尔，又看看汤姆。 ‘我想说的是，如果他们无法忍受，为什么还要继续和他们住在一起呢？如果我是他们，我会离婚并立即结婚。

‘Doesn’t she like Wilson either?’
“她也不喜欢威尔逊吗？”

The answer to this was unexpected. It came from Myrtle who had overheard the question and it was violent and obscene.
这个答案出乎意料。这是默特尔无意中听到的问题，内容充满暴力和淫秽。

‘You see?’ cried Catherine triumphantly. She lowered her voice again. ‘It’s really his wife that’s keeping them apart. She’s a Catholic and they don’t believe in divorce.’
“你明白了吗？”凯瑟琳得意地喊道。她又压低了声音。 “实际上是他的妻子让他们分开了。她是天主教徒，他们不相信离婚。”

Daisy was not a Catholic and I was a little shocked at the elaborateness of the lie.
黛西不是天主教徒，我对这个谎言的精心设计感到有点震惊。

‘When they do get married,’ continued Catherine, ‘they’re going west to live for a while until it blows over.’
“当他们结婚时，”凯瑟琳继续说道，“他们会去西部生活一段时间，直到风平浪静。”

‘It’d be more discreet to go to Europe.’
“去欧洲会更谨慎。”

‘Oh, do you like Europe?’ she exclaimed surprisingly. ‘I just got back from Monte Carlo.’
“哦，你喜欢欧洲吗？”她惊讶地喊道。 “我刚从蒙特卡洛回来。”

‘Really.’
'真的。'

‘Just last year. I went over there with another girl.’
就在去年。我和另一个女孩一起去了那里。

‘Stay long?’
'久留？'

‘No, we just went to Monte Carlo and back. We went by way of Marseilles. We had over twelve hundred dollars when we started but we got gypped out of it all in two days in the private rooms. We had an awful time getting back, I can tell you. God, how I hated that town!’
“不，我们只是去了蒙特卡洛然后回来了。我们途经马赛。刚开始的时候我们有一千二百多美元，但两天后我们在私人房间里就被骗光了。我可以告诉你，我们回来的时候过得很糟糕。天哪，我多么讨厌那个小镇啊！

The late afternoon sky bloomed in the window for a moment like the blue honey of the Mediterranean—then the shrill voice of Mrs. McKee called me back into the room.
午后的天空在窗外绽放了一会儿，就像地中海的蓝色蜂蜜一样——然后麦基夫人尖利的声音把我叫回了房间。

‘I almost made a mistake, too,’ she declared vigorously. ‘I almost married a little kyke who’d been after me for years. I knew he was below me. Everybody kept saying to me: ‘Lucille, that man’s way below you!’ But if I hadn’t met Chester, he’d of got me sure.’
“我也差点犯了一个错误，”她有力地宣称。 “我差点就嫁给了一个跟踪我多年的小混蛋。我知道他在我之下。每个人都一直对我说：“露西尔，那个人比你低得多！”但如果我没有遇到切斯特，他肯定会明白我的意思。

‘Yes, but listen,’ said Myrtle Wilson, nodding her head up and down, ‘at least you didn’t marry him.’
“是的，但是听着，”默特尔·威尔逊上下点头说，“至少你没有嫁给他。”

‘I know I didn’t.’
“我知道我没有。”

‘Well, I married him,’ said Myrtle, ambiguously. ‘And that’s the difference between your case and mine.’
“好吧，我嫁给了他，”默特尔含糊地说。 “这就是你的案子和我的案子的区别。”

‘Why did you, Myrtle?’ demanded Catherine. ‘Nobody forced you to.’
“你为什么这么做，默特尔？”凯瑟琳问道。 “没有人强迫你这么做。”

Myrtle considered.
默特尔想了想。

‘I married him because I thought he was a gentleman,’ she said finally. ‘I thought he knew something about breeding, but he wasn’t fit to lick my shoe.’
“我嫁给他是因为我认为他是一位绅士，”她最后说道。 “我以为他懂得一些育种知识，但他不适合舔我的鞋子。”

‘You were crazy about him for a while,’ said Catherine.
“你有一段时间为他疯狂，”凯瑟琳说。

‘Crazy about him!’ cried Myrtle incredulously. ‘Who said I was crazy about him? I never was any more crazy about him than I was about that man there.’
“为他疯狂！”默特尔难以置信地喊道。 ‘谁说我为他着迷？我对他的迷恋从来没有比对那里的那个人更疯狂的了。”

She pointed suddenly at me, and every one looked at me accusingly. I tried to show by my expression that I had played no part in her past.
她突然指着我，每个人都用指责的目光看着我。我试图通过我的表情表明我在她的过去中没有扮演任何角色。

‘The only CRAZY I was was when I married him. I knew right away I made a mistake. He borrowed somebody’s best suit to get married in and never even told me about it, and the man came after it one day when he was out. She looked around to see who was listening: ‘ ‘Oh, is that your suit?’ I said. ‘This is the first I ever heard about it.’ But I gave it to him and then I lay down and cried to beat the band all afternoon.’
“我唯一疯狂的一次是当我嫁给他的时候。我立刻就知道我犯了一个错误。他借了别人最好的一套衣服去结婚，却从来没有告诉过我这件事，有一天他出去的时候，那个男人来找他了。她环顾四周，看看谁在听：“‘哦，那是你的衣服吗？’我说。” “这是我第一次听说这件事。”但我把它给了他，然后我躺下来哭了一整个下午。

‘She really ought to get away from him,’ resumed Catherine to me. ‘They’ve been living over that garage for eleven years. And Tom’s the first sweetie she ever had.’
“她真的应该离开他，”凯瑟琳对我说道。 “他们在那个车库里住了十一年了。汤姆是她的第一个宝贝。

The bottle of whiskey—a second one—was now in constant demand by all present, excepting Catherine who ‘felt just as good on nothing at all.’ Tom rang for the janitor and sent him for some celebrated sandwiches, which were a complete supper in themselves. I wanted to get out and walk eastward toward the park through the soft twilight but each time I tried to go I became entangled in some wild strident argument which pulled me back, as if with ropes, into my chair. Yet high over the city our line of yellow windows must have contributed their share of human secrecy to the casual watcher in the darkening streets, and I was him too, looking up and wondering. I was within and without, simultaneously enchanted and repelled by the inexhaustible variety of life.
现在，在场所有人都不断要求那瓶威士忌——第二瓶——除了凯瑟琳，她“什么都不喝也感觉很好。”汤姆按铃叫来了看门人，让他拿了一些著名的三明治，这就是一顿完整的晚餐。在他们自己身上。我想出去，在柔和的暮色中向东走到公园，但每次我试图走时，我都会陷入一些激烈的争吵中，这些争吵就像用绳子一样把我拉回椅子上。然而，在城市的高处，我们那一排黄色的窗户一定为黑暗街道上漫不经心的观察者贡献了自己的一份人类秘密，而我也是他，抬起头来，疑惑着。我既在里面又在外面，对生活的无穷无尽的多样性既着迷又排斥。

Myrtle pulled her chair close to mine, and suddenly her warm breath poured over me the story of her first meeting with Tom.
默特尔把椅子拉到我的身边，突然，她温暖的呼吸向我讲述了她第一次见到汤姆的故事。

‘It was on the two little seats facing each other that are always the last ones left on the train. I was going up to New York to see my sister and spend the night. He had on a dress suit and patent leather shoes and I couldn’t keep my eyes off him but every time he looked at me I had to pretend to be looking at the advertisement over his head. When we came into the station he was next to me and his white shirt-front pressed against my arm—and so I told him I’d have to call a policeman, but he knew I lied. I was so excited that when I got into a taxi with him I didn’t hardly know I wasn’t getting into a subway train. All I kept thinking about, over and over, was ‘You can’t live forever, you can’t live forever.’ ‘
“火车上最后剩下的两个小座位总是面对面的。我要去纽约看我姐姐并过夜。他穿着西装和漆皮鞋，我的目光无法从他身上移开，但每次他看着我时，我都必须假装在看他头顶上的广告。当我们进入车站时，他就在我旁边，他的白衬衫前襟压在我的手臂上，所以我告诉他我必须打电话给警察，但他知道我撒了谎。我非常兴奋，以至于当我和他一起坐上出租车时，我几乎不知道自己不是在坐地铁。我一遍又一遍地想的是“你不能永远活着，你不能永远活着。”

She turned to Mrs. McKee and the room rang full of her artificial laughter.
她转向麦基夫人，房间里充满了她假装的笑声。

‘My dear,’ she cried, ‘I’m going to give you this dress as soon as I’m through with it. I’ve got to get another one tomorrow. I’m going to make a list of all the things I’ve got to get. A massage and a wave and a collar for the dog and one of those cute little ash-trays where you touch a spring, and a wreath with a black silk bow for mother’s grave that’ll last all summer. I got to write down a list so I won’t forget all the things I got to do.’
“亲爱的，”她喊道，“我一穿完这件衣服就送给你。”我明天必须再去买一份。我将列出我必须得到的所有东西。为狗做一次按摩、挥手、戴上项圈，还有一个可爱的小烟灰缸，你可以在其中触摸弹簧，还有一个带有黑色丝质蝴蝶结的花环，供母亲的坟墓使用，可以持续整个夏天。我必须写下一个清单，这样我就不会忘记我要做的所有事情。

It was nine o’clock—almost immediately afterward I looked at my watch and found it was ten. Mr. McKee was asleep on a chair with his fists clenched in his lap, like a photograph of a man of action. Taking out my handkerchief I wiped from his cheek the remains of the spot of dried lather that had worried me all the afternoon.
现在是九点钟——几乎是在我看了手表之后，发现已经十点了。麦基先生坐在椅子上睡着了，放在腿上的拳头紧握，就像一张实干家的照片。我拿出手帕擦去他脸颊上残留的干泡沫，这个泡沫让我整个下午都担心不已。

The little dog was sitting on the table looking with blind eyes through the smoke and from time to time groaning faintly. People disappeared, reappeared, made plans to go somewhere, and then lost each other, searched for each other, found each other a few feet away. Some time toward midnight Tom Buchanan and Mrs. Wilson stood face to face discussing in impassioned voices whether Mrs. Wilson had any right to mention Daisy’s name.
小狗坐在桌子上，睁着眼睛透过烟雾看着，不时发出微弱的呻吟声。人们消失了，又出现了，计划去某个地方，然后彼此迷失，互相寻找，在几英尺远的地方找到了彼此。午夜时分，汤姆·布坎南和威尔逊夫人面对面站着，热情地讨论威尔逊夫人是否有权提及黛西的名字。

‘Daisy! Daisy! Daisy!’ shouted Mrs. Wilson. ‘I’ll say it whenever I want to! Daisy! Dai——‘
'雏菊！雏菊！黛西！”威尔逊夫人喊道。 ‘我想说什么时候就说什么！雏菊！戴——‘

Making a short deft movement Tom Buchanan broke her nose with his open hand.
汤姆·布坎南敏捷地做了一个简短的动作，用张开的手打断了她的鼻子。

Then there were bloody towels upon the bathroom floor, and women’s voices scolding, and high over the confusion a long broken wail of pain. Mr. McKee awoke from his doze and started in a daze toward the door. When he had gone half way he turned around and stared at the scene—his wife and Catherine scolding and consoling as they stumbled here and there among the crowded furniture with articles of aid, and the despairing figure on the couch bleeding fluently and trying to spread a copy of ‘Town Tattle’ over the tapestry scenes of Versailles. Then Mr. McKee turned and continued on out the door. Taking my hat from the chandelier I followed.
然后浴室地板上满是血迹斑斑的毛巾，女人的责骂声，混乱中传来长长的断断续续的痛苦哀号。麦基先生从睡梦中醒来，茫然地朝门口走去。当他走了一半时，他转过身来，凝视着这一幕——他的妻子和凯瑟琳一边责骂一边安慰，他们在拥挤的家具中跌跌撞撞地走来走去，手里拿着救援物品，沙发上绝望的身影流着血，试图蔓延开来。凡尔赛宫挂毯场景的《小镇闲谈》的副本。然后麦基先生转身继续往门外走。我从枝形吊灯上取下帽子，跟着走。

‘Come to lunch some day,’ he suggested, as we groaned down in the elevator.
“改天来吃午饭吧，”当我们在电梯里呻吟着时，他建议道。

‘Where?’
'在哪里？'

‘Anywhere.’
“任何地方。”

‘Keep your hands off the lever,’ snapped the elevator boy.
“把手远离操纵杆，”电梯男孩厉声说道。

‘I beg your pardon,’ said Mr. McKee with dignity, ‘I didn’t know I was touching it.’
“请原谅，”麦基先生尊严地说，“我不知道我在碰它。”

‘All right,’ I agreed, ‘I’ll be glad to.’
“好吧，”我同意道，“我很乐意。”

… I was standing beside his bed and he was sitting up between the sheets, clad in his underwear, with a great portfolio in his hands.
......我站在他的床边，他坐在床单之间，穿着内衣，手里拿着一个很大的文件夹。

‘Beauty and the Beast … Loneliness … Old Grocery Horse … Brook’n Bridge ….’
“美女与野兽……孤独……老杂货马……布鲁克桥……”

Then I was lying half asleep in the cold lower level of the Pennsylvania Station, staring at the morning ‘Tribune’ and waiting for the four o’clock train.
然后我半睡半醒地躺在宾夕法尼亚车站寒冷的下层，盯着早上的《论坛报》，等待四点钟的火车。

Chapter 3
第3章

There was music from my neighbor’s house through the summer nights. In his blue gardens men and girls came and went like moths among the whisperings and the champagne and the stars. At high tide in the afternoon I watched his guests diving from the tower of his raft or taking the sun on the hot sand of his beach while his two motor-boats slit the waters of the Sound, drawing aquaplanes over cataracts of foam. On week-ends his Rolls-Royce became an omnibus, bearing parties to and from the city, between nine in the morning and long past midnight, while his station wagon scampered like a brisk yellow bug to meet all trains. And on Mondays eight servants including an extra gardener toiled all day with mops and scrubbing-brushes and hammers and garden-shears, repairing the ravages of the night before.
整个夏天的夜晚，我邻居家都会传来音乐声。在他蓝色的花园里，男人和女孩们像飞蛾一样在窃窃私语、香槟和星星中来来去去。下午涨潮时，我看着他的客人从他的木筏塔上跳水，或者在他海滩的热沙上晒太阳，而他的两艘摩托艇则划过海峡的水域，在泡沫瀑布上划着滑水板。到了周末，他的劳斯莱斯就变成了一辆公共汽车，从早上九点到午夜过后，载着各种派对往返于城市之间，而他的旅行车则像一只活泼的黄色小虫一样蹦蹦跳跳地迎接所有火车。每逢星期一，八名仆人，包括一名额外的园丁，会用拖把、刷子、锤子和园艺剪辛苦工作一整天，修复前一天晚上造成的破坏。

Every Friday five crates of oranges and lemons arrived from a fruiterer in New York—every Monday these same oranges and lemons left his back door in a pyramid of pulpless halves. There was a machine in the kitchen which could extract the juice of two hundred oranges in half an hour, if a little button was pressed two hundred times by a butler’s thumb.
每个星期五，纽约的一位果农都会送来五箱橙子和柠檬，而每周一，这些橙子和柠檬都会以无果肉的金字塔形式从他的后门运出。厨房里有一台机器，只要管家的拇指按一个小按钮两百次，半小时内就能榨出两百个橙子的汁。

At least once a fortnight a corps of caterers came down with several hundred feet of canvas and enough colored lights to make a Christmas tree of Gatsby’s enormous garden. On buffet tables, garnished with glistening hors-d’oeuvre, spiced baked hams crowded against salads of harlequin designs and pastry pigs and turkeys bewitched to a dark gold. In the main hall a bar with a real brass rail was set up, and stocked with gins and liquors and with cordials so long forgotten that most of his female guests were too young to know one from another.
至少每两周一次，一群餐饮承办商会带着数百英尺的帆布和足够的彩灯下来，在盖茨比的巨大花园里制作一棵圣诞树。自助餐桌上摆满了闪闪发光的开胃小菜，五香烤火腿挤满了丑角图案的沙拉，还有被暗金色迷住的猪和火鸡糕点。大厅里设立了一个带有真正黄铜栏杆的酒吧，里面摆满了杜松子酒、烈酒以及早已被遗忘的甜酒，以至于他的大多数女客人都太年轻了，无法相互认识。

By seven o’clock the orchestra has arrived—no thin five-piece affair but a whole pitful of oboes and trombones and saxophones and viols and cornets and piccolos and low and high drums. The last swimmers have come in from the beach now and are dressing upstairs; the cars from New York are parked five deep in the drive, and already the halls and salons and verandas are gaudy with primary colors and hair shorn in strange new ways and shawls beyond the dreams of Castile. The bar is in full swing and floating rounds of cocktails permeate the garden outside until the air is alive with chatter and laughter and casual innuendo and introductions forgotten on the spot and enthusiastic meetings between women who never knew each other’s names.
到了七点，管弦乐队就到了——不是单薄的五人组，而是一大堆双簧管、长号、萨克斯管、中提琴、短号、短笛、低音鼓和高音鼓。最后一批游泳者现在已经从海滩回来，正在楼上穿衣服。来自纽约的汽车在车道上停了五层深，大厅、沙龙和阳台已经用原色装饰得花哨，头发以奇怪的新方式剪了，披肩也超出了卡斯蒂利亚的梦想。酒吧里热闹非凡，一轮又一轮的鸡尾酒弥漫在外面的花园里，直到空气中充满了闲聊和笑声，随意的暗示和当场忘记的介绍，以及互不相识的女性之间的热情会面。

The lights grow brighter as the earth lurches away from the sun and now the orchestra is playing yellow cocktail music and the opera of voices pitches a key higher. Laughter is easier, minute by minute, spilled with prodigality, tipped out at a cheerful word. The groups change more swiftly, swell with new arrivals, dissolve and form in the same breath—already there are wanderers, confident girls who weave here and there among the stouter and more stable, become for a sharp, joyous moment the center of a group and then excited with triumph glide on through the sea-change of faces and voices and color under the constantly changing light.
随着地球逐渐远离太阳，灯光变得越来越亮，现在管弦乐队正在演奏黄色的鸡尾酒音乐，人声歌剧的音调更高。笑声变得更容易了，一分钟一分钟，充满了挥霍，在一个欢快的话语中爆发出来。这些群体变化得更快，随着新来的人而膨胀，同时解散和形成——已经有流浪者、自信的女孩在更坚固、更稳定的人群中到处穿梭，在一个尖锐、欢乐的时刻成为群体的中心然后，在不断变化的光线下，带着胜利的兴奋，在面孔、声音和颜色的巨大变化中滑行。

Suddenly one of these gypsies in trembling opal, seizes a cocktail out of the air, dumps it down for courage and moving her hands like Frisco dances out alone on the canvas platform. A momentary hush; the orchestra leader varies his rhythm obligingly for her and there is a burst of chatter as the erroneous news goes around that she is Gilda Gray’s understudy from the ‘Follies.’ The party has begun.
突然，其中一个穿着颤抖的蛋白石的吉普赛人从空中抓起一杯鸡尾酒，将其倒下以获取勇气，并像弗里斯科独自在帆布平台上跳舞一样移动双手。短暂的寂静；管弦乐队领队亲切地为她改变了节奏，当错误的消息传开她是“愚蠢”乐队吉尔达·格雷的替补时，一阵闲聊声响起。派对开始了。

I believe that on the first night I went to Gatsby’s house I was one of the few guests who had actually been invited. People were not invited—they went there. They got into automobiles which bore them out to Long Island and somehow they ended up at Gatsby’s door. Once there they were introduced by somebody who knew Gatsby and after that they conducted themselves according to the rules of behavior associated with amusement parks. Sometimes they came and went without having met Gatsby at all, came for the party with a simplicity of heart that was its own ticket of admission.
我相信，在我去盖茨比家的第一晚，我是少数真正被邀请的客人之一。人们没有被邀请——他们去了那里。他们坐上了汽车，开往长岛，最后不知怎么地来到了盖茨比家门口。一到那里，他们就被认识盖茨比的人介绍了，之后他们就按照游乐园的行为规则行事。有时他们来来去去根本没有见过盖茨比，带着一颗简单的心来参加聚会，这就是聚会的入场券。

I had been actually invited. A chauffeur in a uniform of robin’s egg blue crossed my lawn early that Saturday morning with a surprisingly formal note from his employer—the honor would be entirely Gatsby’s, it said, if I would attend his ‘little party’ that night. He had seen me several times and had intended to call on me long before but a peculiar combination of circumstances had prevented it—signed Jay Gatsby in a majestic hand.
我确实被邀请了。那个星期六一早，一位穿着知更鸟蛋蓝色制服的司机穿过我的草坪，手里拿着一张来自他雇主的出人意料的正式便条——上面说，如果我那天晚上能参加他的“小型聚会”，那么这份荣誉将完全属于盖茨比。他见过我好几次，很早就打算拜访我，但由于特殊的情况而未能成行——他的签名是杰伊·盖茨比，手写得很威严。

Dressed up in white flannels I went over to his lawn a little after seven and wandered around rather ill-at-ease among swirls and eddies of people I didn’t know—though here and there was a face I had noticed on the commuting train. I was immediately struck by the number of young Englishmen dotted about; all well dressed, all looking a little hungry and all talking in low earnest voices to solid and prosperous Americans. I was sure that they were selling something: bonds or insurance or automobiles. They were, at least, agonizingly aware of the easy money in the vicinity and convinced that it was theirs for a few words in the right key.
七点刚过，我穿着白色法兰绒衣服去了他的草坪，在一群我不认识的人的漩涡中不安地徘徊——尽管到处都有一张我在通勤火车上注意到的脸。 。我立刻就被周围散布着的年轻英国人的数量所震惊。所有人都穿着得体，看上去都有点饿，都用低沉而认真的声音与坚实而富裕的美国人交谈。我确信他们在卖东西：债券、保险或汽车。至少，他们痛苦地意识到附近的钱很容易赚到，并且相信只要用正确的方式说几句话，这就是他们的了。

As soon as I arrived I made an attempt to find my host but the two or three people of whom I asked his whereabouts stared at me in such an amazed way and denied so vehemently any knowledge of his movements that I slunk off in the direction of the cocktail table—the only place in the garden where a single man could linger without looking purposeless and alone.
我一到达，就试图找到我的主人，但我询问他的下落的两三个人用如此惊讶的方式盯着我，并强烈否认对他的行踪有任何了解，所以我偷偷地朝我的方向走去。鸡尾酒桌——花园里唯一一个能让单身男人流连忘返而又不会显得漫无目的和孤独的地方。

I was on my way to get roaring drunk from sheer embarrassment when Jordan Baker came out of the house and stood at the head of the marble steps, leaning a little backward and looking with contemptuous interest down into the garden.
当乔丹·贝克从房子里走出来，站在大理石台阶的顶端时，我正要因纯粹的尴尬而喝得酩酊大醉，身体稍微向后倾斜，带着轻蔑的兴趣看着花园。

Welcome or not, I found it necessary to attach myself to someone before I should begin to address cordial remarks to the passers-by.
无论是否欢迎，我发现在开始向路人致以亲切的讲话之前，我发现自己必须先与某人建立联系。

‘Hello!’ I roared, advancing toward her. My voice seemed unnaturally loud across the garden.
“你好！”我喊道，朝她走去。我的声音在花园里显得异常响亮。

‘I thought you might be here,’ she responded absently as I came up. ‘I remembered you lived next door to——‘
“我以为你可能在这里。”当我走近时，她心不在焉地回答道。 “我记得你住在隔壁——”

She held my hand impersonally, as a promise that she’d take care of me in a minute, and gave ear to two girls in twin yellow dresses who stopped at the foot of the steps.
她冷漠地握住我的手，承诺她会立即照顾我，并倾听两个穿着双黄色连衣裙的女孩停在台阶下的声音。

‘Hello!’ they cried together. ‘Sorry you didn’t win.’
“你好！”他们一起喊道。 “抱歉你没有赢。”

That was for the golf tournament. She had lost in the finals the week before.
那是为了高尔夫锦标赛。她在一周前的决赛中输了。

‘You don’t know who we are,’ said one of the girls in yellow, ‘but we met you here about a month ago.’
“你不知道我们是谁，”其中一个黄衣女孩说道，“但我们大约一个月前在这里见过你。”

‘You’ve dyed your hair since then,’ remarked Jordan, and I started but the girls had moved casually on and her remark was addressed to the premature moon, produced like the supper, no doubt, out of a caterer’s basket. With Jordan’s slender golden arm resting in mine we descended the steps and sauntered about the garden. A tray of cocktails floated at us through the twilight and we sat down at a table with the two girls in yellow and three men, each one introduced to us as Mr. Mumble.
“从那时起你就染了头发。”乔丹说道，我开始说话，但女孩们已经漫不经心地继续前行，她的话是对着早熟的月亮说的，毫无疑问，它就像晚餐一样，是从餐饮服务商的篮子里拿出来的。我们挽着乔丹细长的金色手臂，走下台阶，在花园里闲逛。一盘鸡尾酒在暮色中飘向我们，我们和两个穿黄衣服的女孩和三个男人坐在一张桌子旁，每个人都被介绍为曼布尔先生。

‘Do you come to these parties often?’ inquired Jordan of the girl beside her.
“你经常来参加这些聚会吗？”乔丹问身边的女孩。

‘The last one was the one I met you at,’ answered the girl, in an alert, confident voice. She turned to her companion: ‘Wasn’t it for you, Lucille?’
“最后一个就是我遇见你的地方，”女孩用警觉而自信的声音回答道。她转向她的同伴：“这不是给你的吗，露西尔？”

It was for Lucille, too.
这也是为了露西尔。

‘I like to come,’ Lucille said. ‘I never care what I do, so I always have a good time. When I was here last I tore my gown on a chair, and he asked me my name and address—inside of a week I got a package from Croirier’s with a new evening gown in it.’
“我喜欢来，”露西尔说。 “我从不关心自己做什么，所以我总是玩得很开心。上次我来这里的时候，我在椅子上撕破了礼服，他问了我的名字和地址——一周之内，我收到了克罗里耶的一个包裹，里面有一件新的晚礼服。

‘Did you keep it?’ asked Jordan.
“你保留着它吗？”乔丹问。

‘Sure I did. I was going to wear it tonight, but it was too big in the bust and had to be altered. It was gas blue with lavender beads. Two hundred and sixty-five dollars.’
“我当然做到了。我今晚本来打算穿它，但胸围太大了，必须修改。它是气蓝色的，带有淡紫色的珠子。两百六十五美元。

‘There’s something funny about a fellow that’ll do a thing like that,’ said the other girl eagerly. ‘He doesn’t want any trouble with ANYbody.’
“一个人会做这样的事，真是太有趣了。”另一个女孩急切地说。 “他不想给任何人带来任何麻烦。”

‘Who doesn’t?’ I inquired.
“谁不呢？”我问道。

‘Gatsby. Somebody told me——‘
‘盖茨比。有人告诉我 - '

The two girls and Jordan leaned together confidentially.
两个女孩和乔丹秘密地靠在一起。

‘Somebody told me they thought he killed a man once.’
“有人告诉我，他们认为他曾经杀过一个人。”

A thrill passed over all of us. The three Mr. Mumbles bent forward and listened eagerly.
我们所有人都感到一阵激动。咕噜先生三个弯下腰，热切地听着。

‘I don’t think it’s so much THAT,’ argued Lucille skeptically; ‘it’s more that he was a German spy during the war.’
“我不认为事情有那么多，”露西尔怀疑地说。 “更重要的是，他在战争期间是一名德国间谍。”

One of the men nodded in confirmation.
其中一名男子点头确认。

‘I heard that from a man who knew all about him, grew up with him in Germany,’ he assured us positively.
“我是从一个了解他的一切、和他一起在德国长大的人那里听到这句话的，”他积极地向我们保证。

‘Oh, no,’ said the first girl, ‘it couldn’t be that, because he was in the American army during the war.’ As our credulity switched back to her she leaned forward with enthusiasm. ‘You look at him sometimes when he thinks nobody’s looking at him. I’ll bet he killed a man.’
“哦，不，”第一个女孩说，“不可能是这样，因为战争期间他在美国军队。”当我们的轻信转向她时，她热情地向前倾身。 “有时候，当他认为没有人在看他的时候，你却看着他。我敢打赌他杀了一个人。

She narrowed her eyes and shivered. Lucille shivered. We all turned and looked around for Gatsby. It was testimony to the romantic speculation he inspired that there were whispers about him from those who found little that it was necessary to whisper about in this world.
她眯起眼睛，浑身发抖。露西尔浑身发抖。我们都转身寻找盖茨比。这证明了他引发的浪漫猜测，那些发现在这个世界上几乎没有必要窃窃私语的人对他有流言蜚语。

The first supper—there would be another one after midnight—was now being served, and Jordan invited me to join her own party who were spread around a table on the other side of the garden. There were three married couples and Jordan’s escort, a persistent undergraduate given to violent innuendo and obviously under the impression that sooner or later Jordan was going to yield him up her person to a greater or lesser degree. Instead of rambling this party had preserved a dignified homogeneity, and assumed to itself the function of representing the staid nobility of the countryside—East Egg condescending to West Egg, and carefully on guard against its spectroscopic gayety.
第一顿晚餐——午夜过后还会有另一顿——正在上桌，乔丹邀请我加入她自己的聚会，她们围坐在花园另一边的一张桌子旁。现场有三对已婚夫妇，还有乔丹的护送者，一名执着的本科生，热衷于暴力暗示，显然她认为乔丹迟早会或多或少地将她的个人交给他。这群人并没有胡言乱语，而是保持了一种庄重的同质性，并承担起代表乡村古板贵族的职能——东卵屈尊于西卵，并小心翼翼地提防其光谱般的欢乐。

‘Let’s get out,’ whispered Jordan, after a somehow wasteful and inappropriate half hour. ‘This is much too polite for me.’
“我们出去吧，”在不知何故浪费且不恰当的半小时后，乔丹低声说道。 “这对我来说太礼貌了。”

We got up, and she explained that we were going to find the host—I had never met him, she said, and it was making me uneasy. The undergraduate nodded in a cynical, melancholy way.
我们起身，她解释说我们要去寻找主人——我从未见过他，她说，这让我感到不安。本科生愤世嫉俗、忧郁地点点头。

The bar, where we glanced first, was crowded but Gatsby was not there. She couldn’t find him from the top of the steps, and he wasn’t on the veranda. On a chance we tried an important-looking door, and walked into a high Gothic library, panelled with carved English oak, and probably transported complete from some ruin overseas.
我们第一眼看到的酒吧里挤满了人，但盖茨比并不在那里。她在台阶顶上找不到他，而且他也不在阳台上。一次偶然的机会，我们尝试了一扇看起来很重要的门，走进一座高耸的哥特式图书馆，里面镶着雕刻的英国橡木，很可能是从海外的某个废墟运来的。

A stout, middle-aged man with enormous owl-eyed spectacles was sitting somewhat drunk on the edge of a great table, staring with unsteady concentration at the shelves of books. As we entered he wheeled excitedly around and examined Jordan from head to foot.
一个戴着巨大的猫头鹰眼镜的矮胖中年男子，有些醉意地坐在一张大桌子的边缘，目光飘忽不定地盯着书架上的书。当我们进去时，他兴奋地转过身来，从头到脚审视着乔丹。

‘What do you think?’ he demanded impetuously.
“你觉得怎么样？”他急躁地问道。

‘About what?’
'关于什么？'

He waved his hand toward the book-shelves.
他向书架挥了挥手。

‘About that. As a matter of fact you needn’t bother to ascertain. I ascertained. They’re real.’
'关于那个。事实上，你不必费心去确定。我确定了。它们是真实的。

‘The books?’
'图书？'

He nodded.
他点了点头。

‘Absolutely real—have pages and everything. I thought they’d be a nice durable cardboard. Matter of fact, they’re absolutely real. Pages and—Here! Lemme show you.’
“绝对真实——有页面和一切。我认为它们会是一块漂亮耐用的纸板。事实上，它们绝对是真实的。页面和——这里！让我给你看看。

Taking our skepticism for granted, he rushed to the bookcases and returned with Volume One of the ‘Stoddard Lectures.’
他认为我们的怀疑是理所当然的，他冲向书柜，带着《斯托达德讲座》第一卷回来了。

‘See!’ he cried triumphantly. ‘It’s a bona fide piece of printed matter. It fooled me. This fella’s a regular Belasco. It’s a triumph. What thoroughness! What realism! Knew when to stop too—didn’t cut the pages. But what do you want? What do you expect?’
“看！”他得意地喊道。 “这是一份真正的印刷品。它愚弄了我。这家伙是个普通的贝拉斯科人。这是一次胜利。多么彻底啊！多么现实啊！也知道何时停止——没有剪掉书页。但你想要什么？你能指望什么？'

He snatched the book from me and replaced it hastily on its shelf muttering that if one brick was removed the whole library was liable to collapse.
他从我手中抢过那本书，急忙把它放回书架上，嘀咕着如果拆掉一块砖，整个图书馆就会倒塌。

‘Who brought you?’ he demanded. ‘Or did you just come? I was brought. Most people were brought.’
“谁带你来的？”他问道。 「还是说你才刚来？我被带来了。大多数人都被带来了。

Jordan looked at him alertly, cheerfully without answering.
乔丹警惕地、愉快地看着他，没有回答。

‘I was brought by a woman named Roosevelt,’ he continued. ‘Mrs. Claud Roosevelt. Do you know her? I met her somewhere last night. I’ve been drunk for about a week now, and I thought it might sober me up to sit in a library.’
“我是由一位名叫罗斯福的女士带来的，”他继续说道。 '太太。克劳德·罗斯福。你认识她吗？昨晚我在某个地方遇见了她。我已经喝醉了大约一周了，我想坐在图书馆里能让我清醒一下。”

‘Has it?’
“有吗？”

‘A little bit, I think. I can’t tell yet. I’ve only been here an hour. Did I tell you about the books? They’re real. They’re——‘
“有一点，我想。我还不能说。我只来了一个小时。我有告诉过你关于书的事吗？它们是真实的。他们是 - '

‘You told us.’
“你告诉我们的。”

We shook hands with him gravely and went back outdoors.
我们郑重地与他握手，然后回到户外。

There was dancing now on the canvas in the garden, old men pushing young girls backward in eternal graceless circles, superior couples holding each other tortuously, fashionably and keeping in the corners—and a great number of single girls dancing individualistically or relieving the orchestra for a moment of the burden of the banjo or the traps. By midnight the hilarity had increased. A celebrated tenor had sung in Italian and a notorious contralto had sung in jazz and between the numbers people were doing ‘stunts’ all over the garden, while happy vacuous bursts of laughter rose toward the summer sky. A pair of stage ‘twins’—who turned out to be the girls in yellow—did a baby act in costume and champagne was served in glasses bigger than finger bowls. The moon had risen higher, and floating in the Sound was a triangle of silver scales, trembling a little to the stiff, tinny drip of the banjoes on the lawn.
花园里的画布上现在正在跳舞，老男人把年轻女孩推向永远不优雅的圆圈，优秀的夫妇曲折地、时尚地拥抱在一起，呆在角落里——还有大量单身女孩独自跳舞，或者为管弦乐队加油。班卓琴或陷阱的负担的时刻。到了午夜，热闹的气氛更加浓厚。一位著名的男高音用意大利语演唱，一位臭名昭著的女低音用爵士乐演唱，在这期间，人们在花园里表演“特技”，而快乐而空洞的笑声向夏日的天空升起。一对舞台“双胞胎”——原来是黄衣女孩——穿着戏服表演婴儿表演，香槟盛在比手指碗还大的玻璃杯中。月亮已经升得更高了，海湾里漂浮着一个三角形的银色鳞片，随着草坪上班卓琴的僵硬、细细的滴落声而微微颤抖。

I was still with Jordan Baker. We were sitting at a table with a man of about my age and a rowdy little girl who gave way upon the slightest provocation to uncontrollable laughter. I was enjoying myself now. I had taken two finger bowls of champagne and the scene had changed before my eyes into something significant, elemental and profound.
我还和乔丹·贝克在一起。我们坐在一张桌子旁，旁边坐着一个和我年龄相仿的男人，还有一个吵闹的小女孩，只要受到一点点的挑衅，她就会忍不住笑起来。我现在过得很开心。我喝了两指碗的香槟，眼前的场景变得意义重大、基本而深刻。

At a lull in the entertainment the man looked at me and smiled.
在娱乐活动暂停的时候，那个男人看着我微笑着。

‘Your face is familiar,’ he said, politely. ‘Weren’t you in the Third Division during the war?’
“你的脸很熟悉。”他礼貌地说。 “战争期间你不是在第三师吗？”

‘Why, yes. I was in the Ninth Machine-Gun Battalion.’
'为什么是。我在第九机枪营。

‘I was in the Seventh Infantry until June nineteen-eighteen. I knew I’d seen you somewhere before.’
“我在第七步兵团服役直到六月十九日十八日。我知道我以前在什么地方见过你。

We talked for a moment about some wet, grey little villages in France. Evidently he lived in this vicinity for he told me that he had just bought a hydroplane and was going to try it out in the morning.
我们聊了一会儿法国一些潮湿、灰色的小村庄。显然他就住在这附近，因为他告诉我他刚买了一架水上飞机，打算早上试试。

‘Want to go with me, old sport? Just near the shore along the Sound.’
‘老伙计，想跟我一起去吗？就在海湾沿岸附近。”

‘What time?’
'什么时候？'

‘Any time that suits you best.’
“任何最适合你的时间。”

It was on the tip of my tongue to ask his name when Jordan looked around and smiled.
当乔丹环顾四周并微笑时，我正想问他的名字。

‘Having a gay time now?’ she inquired.
“现在玩得很开心吗？”她问道。

‘Much better.’ I turned again to my new acquaintance. ‘This is an unusual party for me. I haven’t even seen the host. I live over there——’ I waved my hand at the invisible hedge in the distance, ‘and this man Gatsby sent over his chauffeur with an invitation.’
“好多了。”我再次转向我的新朋友。 “这对我来说是一个不寻常的聚会。我连楼主都没见过。我住在那边——”我向远处看不见的树篱挥了挥手，“盖茨比这个人派了他的司机带着邀请过来。”

For a moment he looked at me as if he failed to understand.
他看了我一会儿，好像不明白我的意思。

‘I’m Gatsby,’ he said suddenly.
“我是盖茨比，”他突然说道。

‘What!’ I exclaimed. ‘Oh, I beg your pardon.’
“什么！”我惊呼道。 “哦，请原谅。”

‘I thought you knew, old sport. I’m afraid I’m not a very good host.’
“我以为你知道，老兄。恐怕我不是一个很好的主人。

He smiled understandingly—much more than understandingly. It was one of those rare smiles with a quality of eternal reassurance in it, that you may come across four or five times in life. It faced—or seemed to face—the whole external world for an instant, and then concentrated on YOU with an irresistible prejudice in your favor. It understood you just so far as you wanted to be understood, believed in you as you would like to believe in yourself and assured you that it had precisely the impression of you that, at your best, you hoped to convey. Precisely at that point it vanished—and I was looking at an elegant young rough-neck, a year or two over thirty, whose elaborate formality of speech just missed being absurd. Some time before he introduced himself I’d got a strong impression that he was picking his words with care.
他心领神会地笑了——远不止是心领神会。这是一种罕见的微笑，带有一种永恒的保证，你一生中可能会遇到四五次。它在一瞬间面对——或者似乎是面对——整个外部世界，然后集中在你身上，带着一种不可抗拒的对你的偏见。它了解你，就像你希望被理解一样，相信你，就像你愿意相信自己一样，它向你保证，它对你的印象正是你在最好的时候希望传达的。就在那时，它消失了——我看着一个优雅的年轻粗脖子，一两岁，三十多岁，他复杂的言谈举止恰到好处，一点也不荒唐。在他自我介绍之前的一段时间，我有一个强烈的印象：他措辞很谨慎。

Almost at the moment when Mr. Gatsby identified himself a butler hurried toward him with the information that Chicago was calling him on the wire. He excused himself with a small bow that included each of us in turn.
几乎就在盖茨比先生表明身份的同时，一名管家匆匆向他走来，并告诉他芝加哥正在通过电话给他打电话。他轻轻鞠了一躬，依次向我们每个人鞠了一躬。

‘If you want anything just ask for it, old sport,’ he urged me. ‘Excuse me. I will rejoin you later.’
“如果你想要什么就直接提出来，老伙计，”他敦促我。 '打扰一下。我稍后会再和你们会合。

When he was gone I turned immediately to Jordan—constrained to assure her of my surprise. I had expected that Mr. Gatsby would be a florid and corpulent person in his middle years.
他走后，我立即转向乔丹——勉强向她保证我的惊讶。我原以为盖茨比先生到了中年会是一个面色红润、体态肥胖的人。

‘Who is he?’ I demanded. ‘Do you know?’
“他是谁？”我问道。 '你知道吗？'

‘He’s just a man named Gatsby.’
“他只是一个叫盖茨比的人。”

‘Where is he from, I mean? And what does he do?’
“我是说，他来自哪里？他是做什么的？

‘Now YOU’re started on the subject,’ she answered with a wan smile. ‘Well,—he told me once he was an Oxford man.’
“现在你开始讨论这个话题了，”她带着苍白的微笑回答道。 “嗯，他在牛津大学时就告诉过我。”

A dim background started to take shape behind him but at her next remark it faded away.
他身后开始出现一个昏暗的背景，但在她下一句话后，它就消失了。

‘However, I don’t believe it.’
“但是，我不相信。”

‘Why not?’
'为什么不？'

‘I don’t know,’ she insisted, ‘I just don’t think he went there.’
“我不知道，”她坚持说，“我只是觉得他没去过那里。”

Something in her tone reminded me of the other girl’s ‘I think he killed a man,’ and had the effect of stimulating my curiosity. I would have accepted without question the information that Gatsby sprang from the swamps of Louisiana or from the lower East Side of New York. That was comprehensible. But young men didn’t—at least in my provincial inexperience I believed they didn’t—drift coolly out of nowhere and buy a palace on Long Island Sound.
她的语气让我想起了另一个女孩的“我认为他杀了一个人”，并激发了我的好奇心。我会毫无疑问地接受盖茨比来自路易斯安那州沼泽地或纽约下东区的信息。这是可以理解的。但年轻人并没有——至少以我在外省的经验来看，我相信他们没有——冷静地从不知何处冒出来，在长岛海峡购买一座宫殿。

‘Anyhow he gives large parties,’ said Jordan, changing the subject with an urbane distaste for the concrete. ‘And I like large parties. They’re so intimate. At small parties there isn’t any privacy.’
“无论如何，他举办大型聚会，”乔丹说，带着对具体事物的文雅厌恶，改变了话题。 “我喜欢大型聚会。他们是如此亲密。在小型聚会上，没有任何隐私。”

There was the boom of a bass drum, and the voice of the orchestra leader rang out suddenly above the echolalia of the garden.
一阵低音鼓的轰鸣声响起，管弦乐队指挥的声音突然在花园里的回声中响起。

‘Ladies and gentlemen,’ he cried. ‘At the request of Mr. Gatsby we are going to play for you Mr. Vladimir Tostoff’s latest work which attracted so much attention at Carnegie Hall last May. If you read the papers you know there was a big sensation.’ He smiled with jovial condescension and added ‘Some sensation!’ whereupon everybody laughed.
“女士们先生们，”他喊道。 “应盖茨比先生的要求，我们将为您演奏弗拉基米尔·托斯托夫先生去年五月在卡内基音乐厅引起广泛关注的最新作品。如果你读过报纸，你就知道当时引起了很大的轰动。”他带着快活的屈尊微笑，并补充道“有些轰动！”于是大家都笑了。

‘The piece is known,’ he concluded lustily, ‘as ‘Vladimir Tostoff’s Jazz History of the World.’ ‘
“这首曲子众所周知，”他精力充沛地总结道，“被称为‘弗拉基米尔·托斯托夫的世界爵士乐史’。”

The nature of Mr. Tostoff’s composition eluded me, because just as it began my eyes fell on Gatsby, standing alone on the marble steps and looking from one group to another with approving eyes. His tanned skin was drawn attractively tight on his face and his short hair looked as though it were trimmed every day. I could see nothing sinister about him. I wondered if the fact that he was not drinking helped to set him off from his guests, for it seemed to me that he grew more correct as the fraternal hilarity increased. When the ‘Jazz History of the World’ was over girls were putting their heads on men’s shoulders in a puppyish, convivial way, girls were swooning backward playfully into men’s arms, even into groups knowing that some one would arrest their falls—but no one swooned backward on Gatsby and no French bob touched Gatsby’s shoulder and no singing quartets were formed with Gatsby’s head for one link.
托斯托夫先生的作品的本质让我无法理解，因为就在它开始的时候，我的目光落在了盖茨比身上，他独自站在大理石台阶上，用赞许的目光从一群人看着另一群人。晒黑的皮肤贴在脸上，显得十分迷人，短发看起来就像每天都修剪过一样。我看不出他有什么险恶的地方。我想知道他不喝酒的事实是否有助于让他与客人疏远，因为在我看来，随着兄弟般的欢笑增加，他变得更加正确。当“世界爵士乐史”结束时，女孩们以一种小狗般的、欢乐的方式把头靠在男人的肩膀上，女孩们顽皮地向后倒在男人的怀里，甚至成群结队地知道有人会阻止她们跌倒——但没有人向后晕倒在盖茨比身上，没有法国鲍勃碰触盖茨比的肩膀，也没有以盖茨比的头为一环组成歌唱四重奏。

‘I beg your pardon.’
'请再说一遍。'

Gatsby’s butler was suddenly standing beside us.
盖茨比的管家突然站在我们身边。

‘Miss Baker?’ he inquired. ‘I beg your pardon but Mr. Gatsby would like to speak to you alone.’
“贝克小姐？”他问道。 “请原谅，盖茨比先生想单独和你谈谈。”

‘With me?’ she exclaimed in surprise.
“和我一起？”她惊讶地喊道。

‘Yes, madame.’
“是的，夫人。”

She got up slowly, raising her eyebrows at me in astonishment, and followed the butler toward the house. I noticed that she wore her evening dress, all her dresses, like sports clothes—there was a jauntiness about her movements as if she had first learned to walk upon golf courses on clean, crisp mornings.
她缓缓起身，惊讶地向我扬起眉毛，跟着管家朝屋里走去。我注意到她穿着晚礼服，所有的衣服都像运动服——她的动作有一种愉快的感觉，就好像她第一次学会在干净、清爽的早晨在高尔夫球场上行走一样。

I was alone and it was almost two. For some time confused and intriguing sounds had issued from a long many-windowed room which overhung the terrace. Eluding Jordan’s undergraduate who was now engaged in an obstetrical conversation with two chorus girls, and who implored me to join him, I went inside.
我独自一人，当时已经快两点了。一段时间以来，从露台上的一个长长的、有许多窗户的房间里发出了混乱而有趣的声音。乔丹的本科生正在与两名合唱团女孩进行产科谈话，并恳求我加入他，我避开了他，走进了屋内。

The large room was full of people. One of the girls in yellow was playing the piano and beside her stood a tall, red haired young lady from a famous chorus, engaged in song. She had drunk a quantity of champagne and during the course of her song she had decided ineptly that everything was very very sad—she was not only singing, she was weeping too. Whenever there was a pause in the song she filled it with gasping broken sobs and then took up the lyric again in a quavering soprano. The tears coursed down her cheeks—not freely, however, for when they came into contact with her heavily beaded eyelashes they assumed an inky color, and pursued the rest of their way in slow black rivulets. A humorous suggestion was made that she sing the notes on her face whereupon she threw up her hands, sank into a chair and went off into a deep vinous sleep.
偌大的房间里挤满了人。其中一个黄衣女孩正在弹钢琴，她旁边站着一位来自著名合唱团的高个子、红发的年轻女士，正在唱歌。她喝了很多香槟，在唱歌的过程中，她愚蠢地认为一切都非常非常悲伤——她不仅在唱歌，而且还在哭泣。每当歌曲中有停顿时，她就会用断断续续的抽泣声填满歌曲，然后用颤抖的女高音再次唱起歌词。泪水顺着她的脸颊流下——然而，不是自由的，因为当它们接触到她浓密的珠状睫毛时，它们呈现出墨色，并沿着缓慢的黑色小溪流淌。有人幽默地建议她在脸上唱出这些音符，于是她举起双手，跌坐在椅子上，进入了沉沉的睡眠。

‘She had a fight with a man who says he’s her husband,’ explained a girl at my elbow.
“她和一个自称是她丈夫的男人吵架了，”我身边的一个女孩解释道。

I looked around. Most of the remaining women were now having fights with men said to be their husbands. Even Jordan’s party, the quartet from East Egg, were rent asunder by dissension. One of the men was talking with curious intensity to a young actress, and his wife after attempting to laugh at the situation in a dignified and indifferent way broke down entirely and resorted to flank attacks—at intervals she appeared suddenly at his side like an angry diamond, and hissed ‘You promised!’ into his ear.
我环顾四周。剩下的大多数妇女现在都在与据称是她们丈夫的男人打架。就连乔丹所在的东卵四人组也因分歧而四分五裂。其中一个男人正在以一种奇怪的强度与一位年轻女演员交谈，而他的妻子试图以一种庄严而冷漠的方式嘲笑这种情况，然后完全崩溃并诉诸侧翼攻击——时不时地，她突然出现在他身边，就像一个愤怒的人。钻石，对着他耳边嘶嘶地说：“你答应了！”

The reluctance to go home was not confined to wayward men. The hall was at present occupied by two deplorably sober men and their highly indignant wives. The wives were sympathizing with each other in slightly raised voices.
不愿回家的并不只限于任性的男人。大厅里现在有两个非常清醒的男人和他们非常愤怒的妻子。妻子们互相同情，声音都微微提高了。

‘Whenever he sees I’m having a good time he wants to go home.’
“每当他看到我玩得很开心时，他就想回家。”

‘Never heard anything so selfish in my life.’
“我一生中从未听过如此自私的事情。”

‘We’re always the first ones to leave.’
“我们总是最先离开的。”

‘So are we.’
'我们也是。'

‘Well, we’re almost the last tonight,’ said one of the men sheepishly. ‘The orchestra left half an hour ago.’
“好吧，今晚我们几乎是最后一个了，”其中一个男人不好意思地说。 “管弦乐队半小时前就离开了。”

In spite of the wives’ agreement that such malevolence was beyond credibility, the dispute ended in a short struggle, and both wives were lifted kicking into the night.
尽管妻子们一致认为这种恶毒行为令人难以置信，但这场争执还是以短暂的争斗告终，两位妻子都被举起，踢进了夜色。

As I waited for my hat in the hall the door of the library opened and Jordan Baker and Gatsby came out together. He was saying some last word to her but the eagerness in his manner tightened abruptly into formality as several people approached him to say goodbye.
当我在大厅里等待帽子时，图书馆的门打开了，乔丹·贝克和盖茨比一起走了出来。他正在对她说最后一句话，但当几个人走近他告别时，他的态度突然变得急切而正式。

Jordan’s party were calling impatiently to her from the porch but she lingered for a moment to shake hands.
乔丹一行人在门廊里不耐烦地向她招呼，但她犹豫了一会儿才握手。

‘I’ve just heard the most amazing thing,’ she whispered. ‘How long were we in there?’
“我刚刚听到了最令人惊奇的事情，”她低声说道。 “我们在那里呆了多久？”

‘Why,—about an hour.’
“为什么——大约一个小时。”

‘It was—simply amazing,’ she repeated abstractedly. ‘But I swore I wouldn’t tell it and here I am tantalizing you.’ She yawned gracefully in my face. ‘Please come and see me…. Phone book…. Under the name of Mrs. Sigourney Howard…. My aunt….’ She was hurrying off as she talked—her brown hand waved a jaunty salute as she melted into her party at the door.
“这——简直太神奇了，”她心不在焉地重复道。 “但我发誓我不会说出去，我只是在诱惑你。”她在我面前优雅地打了个哈欠。 ‘请来看我……电话簿…。以西格妮·霍华德夫人的名义……我姑妈……”她一边说着，一边匆匆离去——她棕色的手高兴地挥舞着敬礼，融入了门口的聚会之中。

Rather ashamed that on my first appearance I had stayed so late, I joined the last of Gatsby’s guests who were clustered around him. I wanted to explain that I’d hunted for him early in the evening and to apologize for not having known him in the garden.
我对第一次露面时呆得这么晚感到非常羞愧，于是我加入了盖茨比最后一批聚集在他周围的客人。我想解释一下，我是在傍晚时分寻找他的，并为没有在花园里认识他而道歉。

‘Don’t mention it,’ he enjoined me eagerly. ‘Don’t give it another thought, old sport.’ The familiar expression held no more familiarity than the hand which reassuringly brushed my shoulder. ‘And don’t forget we’re going up in the hydroplane tomorrow morning at nine o’clock.’
“别提了，”他急切地嘱咐我。 “别再想了，老兄。”那熟悉的表情并不比那只抚摸我肩膀的手更熟悉。 “别忘了明天早上九点我们要乘水上飞机上去。”

Then the butler, behind his shoulder:
然后管家在他的肩膀后面说道：

‘Philadelphia wants you on the phone, sir.’
“费城需要您接电话，先生。”

‘All right, in a minute. Tell them I’ll be right there…. good night.’
‘好吧，一会儿。告诉他们我马上就到……晚安。'

‘Good night.’
'晚安。'

‘Good night.’ He smiled—and suddenly there seemed to be a pleasant significance in having been among the last to go, as if he had desired it all the time. ‘Good night, old sport…. Good night.’
“晚安。”他微笑着——突然间，成为最后一批离开的人似乎有一种令人愉快的意义，就好像他一直渴望这样。 “晚安，老伙计……”晚安。'

But as I walked down the steps I saw that the evening was not quite over. Fifty feet from the door a dozen headlights illuminated a bizarre and tumultuous scene. In the ditch beside the road, right side up but violently shorn of one wheel, rested a new coupé which had left Gatsby’s drive not two minutes before. The sharp jut of a wall accounted for the detachment of the wheel which was now getting considerable attention from half a dozen curious chauffeurs. However, as they had left their cars blocking the road a harsh discordant din from those in the rear had been audible for some time and added to the already violent confusion of the scene.
但当我走下台阶时，我发现夜晚还没有完全结束。距门五十英尺处，十几个车头灯照亮了一幅奇异而混乱的景象。路边的沟渠里停着一辆新的双门轿跑车，正面朝上，但一个轮子被猛烈地割断了，它是不到两分钟前离开盖茨比的车道的。墙壁的尖锐突出就是车轮脱落的原因，现在引起了六位好奇司机的极大关注。然而，当他们把车留在路边时，后面的人发出刺耳的、不和谐的喧闹声已经持续了一段时间，这让现场本已非常混乱。

A man in a long duster had dismounted from the wreck and now stood in the middle of the road, looking from the car to the tire and from the tire to the observers in a pleasant, puzzled way.
一个穿着长抹布的男人从残骸中走下来，站在路中间，以一种愉快而困惑的方式从汽车看向轮胎，又从轮胎看向观察者。

‘See!’ he explained. ‘It went in the ditch.’
“看！”他解释道。 “它掉进沟里了。”

The fact was infinitely astonishing to him—and I recognized first the unusual quality of wonder and then the man—it was the late patron of Gatsby’s library.
这个事实让他无比惊讶——我首先认出了奇迹的不寻常品质，然后认出了这个人——他是盖茨比图书馆的已故赞助人。

‘How’d it happen?’
“这是怎么发生的？”

He shrugged his shoulders.
他耸耸肩。

‘I know nothing whatever about mechanics,’ he said decisively.
“我对机械学一无所知，”他果断地说。

‘But how did it happen? Did you run into the wall?’
'但是这是怎么发生的呢？你撞到墙了吗？

‘Don’t ask me,’ said Owl Eyes, washing his hands of the whole matter. ‘I know very little about driving—next to nothing. It happened, and that’s all I know.’
“别问我，”猫头鹰眼说，并把这件事抛诸脑后。 “我对驾驶知之甚少——几乎一无所知。它发生了，这就是我所知道的。

‘Well, if you’re a poor driver you oughtn’t to try driving at night.’
“好吧，如果你的驾驶技术很差，你就不应该尝试在晚上开车。”

‘But I wasn’t even trying,’ he explained indignantly, ‘I wasn’t even trying.’
“但我什至没有尝试过，”他愤怒地解释道，“我什至没有尝试过。”

An awed hush fell upon the bystanders.
旁观者顿时鸦雀无声。

‘Do you want to commit suicide?’
“你想自杀吗？”

‘You’re lucky it was just a wheel! A bad driver and not even TRYing!’
‘你很幸运，那只是一个轮子！一个糟糕的司机，甚至不尝试！”

‘You don’t understand,’ explained the criminal. ‘I wasn’t driving. There’s another man in the car.’
“你不明白，”罪犯解释道。 “我没有开车。车里还有另一个人。”

The shock that followed this declaration found voice in a sustained ‘Ah-h-h!’ as the door of the coupé swung slowly open. The crowd—it was now a crowd—stepped back involuntarily and when the door had opened wide there was a ghostly pause. Then, very gradually, part by part, a pale dangling individual stepped out of the wreck, pawing tentatively at the ground with a large uncertain dancing shoe.
当轿跑车的车门缓缓打开时，伴随着这句话的震惊是持续不断的“啊啊啊！”。人群——现在是人群——不由自主地后退了一步，当门打开时，出现了一阵幽灵般的停顿。然后，慢慢地，一个苍白的、晃来晃去的人从残骸中走了出来，用一只巨大的舞鞋试探性地用爪子抓着地面。

Blinded by the glare of the headlights and confused by the incessant groaning of the horns the apparition stood swaying for a moment before he perceived the man in the duster.
车头灯的刺眼使他目眩，喇叭不断发出的呻吟声使他感到困惑，这个幽灵在他认出那个裹着掸子的人之前，摇摇晃晃地站了一会儿。

‘Wha’s matter?’ he inquired calmly. ‘Did we run outa gas?’
“怎么了？”他平静地问道。 “我们的汽油用完了吗？”

‘Look!’
'看！'

Half a dozen fingers pointed at the amputated wheel—he stared at it for a moment and then looked upward as though he suspected that it had dropped from the sky.
六根手指指向那个被截断的轮子——他盯着它看了一会儿，然后向上看去，仿佛他怀疑它是从天上掉下来的。

‘It came off,’ some one explained.
“它掉下来了，”有人解释道。

He nodded.
他点了点头。

‘At first I din’ notice we’d stopped.’
“一开始我没有注意到我们停了下来。”

A pause. Then, taking a long breath and straightening his shoulders he remarked in a determined voice:
停顿一下。然后，他长长地吸了一口气，挺直了肩膀，用坚定的声音说道：

‘Wonder’ff tell me where there’s a gas’line station?’
“想知道哪里有加油站吗？”

At least a dozen men, some of them little better off than he was, explained to him that wheel and car were no longer joined by any physical bond.
至少有十几个人，其中一些人的处境比他好不了多少，向他解释说，车轮和汽车不再有任何物理联系。

‘Back out,’ he suggested after a moment. ‘Put her in reverse.’
“退出吧，”过了一会儿他建议道。 “把她反过来。”

‘But the WHEEL’S off!’
“但是车轮坏了！”

He hesitated.
他犹豫了。

‘No harm in trying,’ he said.
“尝试一下没有坏处，”他说。

The caterwauling horns had reached a crescendo and I turned away and cut across the lawn toward home. I glanced back once. A wafer of a moon was shining over Gatsby’s house, making the night fine as before and surviving the laughter and the sound of his still glowing garden. A sudden emptiness seemed to flow now from the windows and the great doors, endowing with complete isolation the figure of the host who stood on the porch, his hand up in a formal gesture of farewell.
喇叭声已经达到了最强音，我转身穿过草坪朝家走去。我回头看了一眼。一轮明月照耀着盖茨比的房子，夜色一如既往地晴朗，花园里的笑声和声音依然熠熠生辉。窗户和大门似乎突然涌出一股空虚感，站在门廊上的主人举起手，做出正式告别的姿势，显得完全与世隔绝。

Reading over what I have written so far I see I have given the impression that the events of three nights several weeks apart were all that absorbed me. On the contrary they were merely casual events in a crowded summer and, until much later, they absorbed me infinitely less than my personal affairs.
读完到目前为止我所写的内容，我发现我给人的印象是，几周相隔的三个晚上发生的事情让我全神贯注。相反，它们只是一个拥挤的夏天里的偶然事件，而且直到很久以后，它们对我的吸引力远不如我的个人事务。

Most of the time I worked. In the early morning the sun threw my shadow westward as I hurried down the white chasms of lower New York to the Probity Trust. I knew the other clerks and young bond-salesmen by their first names and lunched with them in dark crowded restaurants on little pig sausages and mashed potatoes and coffee. I even had a short affair with a girl who lived in Jersey City and worked in the accounting department, but her brother began throwing mean looks in my direction so when she went on her vacation in July I let it blow quietly away.
大部分时间我都在工作。清晨，太阳把我的影子投向西边，我匆匆沿着纽约下城的白色裂缝前往正直信托基金。我认识其他职员和年轻的债券推销员的名字，并与他们在黑暗拥挤的餐馆里共进午餐，吃小猪香肠、土豆泥和咖啡。我什至和一个住在泽西市、在会计部门工作的女孩有过一段短暂的恋情，但她的哥哥开始向我投来刻薄的目光，所以当她七月去度假时，我让这段恋情悄然消失。

I took dinner usually at the Yale Club—for some reason it was the gloomiest event of my day—and then I went upstairs to the library and studied investments and securities for a conscientious hour. There were generally a few rioters around but they never came into the library so it was a good place to work. After that, if the night was mellow I strolled down Madison Avenue past the old Murray Hill Hotel and over Thirty-third Street to the Pennsylvania Station.
我通常在耶鲁俱乐部吃晚饭——出于某种原因，这是我一天中最沮丧的事情——然后我上楼去图书馆，认真研究投资和证券一个小时。周围通常有一些暴徒，但他们从不进入图书馆，所以这是一个工作的好地方。之后，如果夜色柔和，我就会沿着麦迪逊大道漫步，经过老默里山酒店，穿过三十三街到达宾夕法尼亚车站。

I began to like New York, the racy, adventurous feel of it at night and the satisfaction that the constant flicker of men and women and machines gives to the restless eye. I liked to walk up Fifth Avenue and pick out romantic women from the crowd and imagine that in a few minutes I was going to enter into their lives, and no one would ever know or disapprove. Sometimes, in my mind, I followed them to their apartments on the corners of hidden streets, and they turned and smiled back at me before they faded through a door into warm darkness. At the enchanted metropolitan twilight I felt a haunting loneliness sometimes, and felt it in others—poor young clerks who loitered in front of windows waiting until it was time for a solitary restaurant dinner—young clerks in the dusk, wasting the most poignant moments of night and life.
我开始喜欢纽约，喜欢它夜晚那种活泼、冒险的感觉，以及男人、女人和机器不断闪烁给不安的眼睛带来的满足感。我喜欢走在第五大道上，从人群中挑选出浪漫的女人，想象几分钟后我将进入她们的生活，没有人会知道或反对。有时，在我的脑海里，我跟随他们来到他们位于隐蔽街道拐角处的公寓，他们转过身来对我微笑，然后穿过门消失在温暖的黑暗中。在迷人的大都市暮色中，我有时会感到一种难以忘怀的孤独，在其他人身上也有这种感觉——可怜的年轻店员在窗前徘徊，等待着独自在餐厅享用晚餐的时间——黄昏中的年轻店员，浪费着最令人心酸的时刻。夜晚和生活。

Again at eight o’clock, when the dark lanes of the Forties were five deep with throbbing taxi cabs, bound for the theatre district, I felt a sinking in my heart. Forms leaned together in the taxis as they waited, and voices sang, and there was laughter from unheard jokes, and lighted cigarettes outlined unintelligible gestures inside. Imagining that I, too, was hurrying toward gayety and sharing their intimate excitement, I wished them well.
又到了八点，当四十年代的黑暗小巷里挤满了开往剧院区的计程车时，我的心一沉。出租车里，人们靠在一起等待，歌声不断，有闻所未闻的笑话带来的笑声，点燃的香烟勾勒出车内难以理解的手势。想象着我也快步走向欢乐并分享他们亲密的兴奋，我祝愿他们一切顺利。

For a while I lost sight of Jordan Baker, and then in midsummer I found her again. At first I was flattered to go places with her because she was a golf champion and every one knew her name. Then it was something more. I wasn’t actually in love, but I felt a sort of tender curiosity. The bored haughty face that she turned to the world concealed something—most affectations conceal something eventually, even though they don’t in the beginning—and one day I found what it was. When we were on a house-party together up in Warwick, she left a borrowed car out in the rain with the top down, and then lied about it—and suddenly I remembered the story about her that had eluded me that night at Daisy’s. At her first big golf tournament there was a row that nearly reached the newspapers—a suggestion that she had moved her ball from a bad lie in the semi-final round. The thing approached the proportions of a scandal—then died away. A caddy retracted his statement and the only other witness admitted that he might have been mistaken. The incident and the name had remained together in my mind.
有一段时间我看不见乔丹·贝克，然后在盛夏我又找到了她。起初，我很荣幸能和她一起去一些地方，因为她是一位高尔夫冠军，每个人都知道她的名字。然后还有更多的事情。我实际上并没有恋爱，但我感到一种温柔的好奇心。她面对世界时那张无聊而傲慢的脸掩盖了一些东西——大多数矫揉造作最终都会掩盖一些东西，尽管一开始并没有——有一天我发现了它是什么。当我们在沃里克一起参加家庭聚会时，她把一辆借来的汽车敞篷地留在雨中，然后撒了谎——突然我想起了那天晚上在黛西家我没能听懂的关于她的故事。在她的第一次大型高尔夫锦标赛上，一场争吵几乎登上了报纸——有人暗示她在半决赛中从一个糟糕的球位上移开了球。这件事几乎达到了丑闻的程度——然后就平息了。一名球童收回了他的陈述，唯一的另一名证人承认他可能弄错了。这件事和这个名字一起留在了我的脑海里。

Jordan Baker instinctively avoided clever shrewd men and now I saw that this was because she felt safer on a plane where any divergence from a code would be thought impossible. She was incurably dishonest. She wasn’t able to endure being at a disadvantage, and given this unwillingness I suppose she had begun dealing in subterfuges when she was very young in order to keep that cool, insolent smile turned to the world and yet satisfy the demands of her hard jaunty body.
乔丹·贝克本能地避开聪明精明的男人，现在我明白了，这是因为她在飞机上感到更安全，因为在飞机上任何与代码的分歧都被认为是不可能的。她不诚实得无可救药。她无法忍受处于不利地位，考虑到这种不情愿，我想她在很小的时候就开始耍花招了，为了保持对世界的冷静、傲慢的微笑，同时满足她艰苦的要求。活泼的身体。

It made no difference to me. Dishonesty in a woman is a thing you never blame deeply—I was casually sorry, and then I forgot. It was on that same house party that we had a curious conversation about driving a car. It started because she passed so close to some workmen that our fender flicked a button on one man’s coat.
这对我来说没有什么区别。女人的不诚实是你永远不会深深责备的事情——我随意地道歉，然后就忘记了。正是在同一个家庭聚会上，我们就驾驶汽车进行了一次好奇的谈话。事情的起因是她离一些工人太近了，以至于我们的挡泥板弹开了一个男人外套上的纽扣。

‘You’re a rotten driver,’ I protested. ‘Either you ought to be more careful or you oughtn’t to drive at all.’
“你是个烂司机。”我抗议道。 “要么你应该更加小心，要么根本不应该开车。”

‘I am careful.’
“我很小心。”

‘No, you’re not.’
'不你不是。'

‘Well, other people are,’ she said lightly.
“嗯，其他人也是，”她轻声说道。

‘What’s that got to do with it?’
“这有什么关系？”

‘They’ll keep out of my way,’ she insisted. ‘It takes two to make an accident.’
“他们不会挡我的路，”她坚持说。 “需要两个人才能发生事故。”

‘Suppose you met somebody just as careless as yourself.’
“假设你遇到了一个和你一样粗心的人。”

‘I hope I never will,’ she answered. ‘I hate careless people. That’s why I like you.’
“我希望我永远不会，”她回答道。 ‘我讨厌粗心的人。这就是我喜欢你的原因。'

Her grey, sun-strained eyes stared straight ahead, but she had deliberately shifted our relations, and for a moment I thought I loved her. But I am slow-thinking and full of interior rules that act as brakes on my desires, and I knew that first I had to get myself definitely out of that tangle back home. I’d been writing letters once a week and signing them: ‘Love, Nick,’ and all I could think of was how, when that certain girl played tennis, a faint mustache of perspiration appeared on her upper lip. Nevertheless there was a vague understanding that had to be tactfully broken off before I was free.
她灰色的、阳光照射下的眼睛直视前方，但她故意改变了我们的关系，有那么一刻我以为我爱她。但我思维迟钝，充满了内心的规则，这些规则阻碍了我的欲望，我知道首先我必须让自己摆脱家里的困境。我每周都会写一封信，署名是：“爱你，尼克”，而我所能想到的就是，当那个女孩打网球时，她的上唇上出现了一丝汗水般的小胡子。然而，在我获得自由之前，我必须巧妙地打破这种模糊的理解。

Every one suspects himself of at least one of the cardinal virtues, and this is mine: I am one of the few honest people that I have ever known.
每个人都怀疑自己至少具有一项基本美德，这就是我的：我是我所认识的少数诚实的人之一。

Chapter 4
第4章

On Sunday morning while church bells rang in the villages along shore the world and its mistress returned to Gatsby’s house and twinkled hilariously on his lawn.
周日早上，当教堂的钟声在沿岸的村庄里响起时，世界和它的情妇回到盖茨比的家，在他的草坪上欢闹地闪烁。

‘He’s a bootlegger,’ said the young ladies, moving somewhere between his cocktails and his flowers. ‘One time he killed a man who had found out that he was nephew to von Hindenburg and second cousin to the devil. Reach me a rose, honey, and pour me a last drop into that there crystal glass.’
“他是个私酒贩子，”年轻女士们说道，一边在他的鸡尾酒和鲜花之间走动。有一次，他杀死了一个人，这个人发现他是冯·兴登堡的侄子，也是魔鬼的远房表弟。给我一朵玫瑰，亲爱的，把最后一滴倒进水晶玻璃里。”

Once I wrote down on the empty spaces of a time-table the names of those who came to Gatsby’s house that summer. It is an old time-table now, disintegrating at its folds and headed ‘This schedule in effect July 5th, 1922.’ But I can still read the grey names and they will give you a better impression than my generalities of those who accepted Gatsby’s hospitality and paid him the subtle tribute of knowing nothing whatever about him.
有一次，我在时间表的空白处写下了那年夏天来盖茨比家的人的名字。现在它是一个旧的时间表，已经解体了，标题是“这个时间表于 1922 年 7 月 5 日生效。”但我仍然可以读懂灰色的名字，它们会给你比我对那些接受盖茨比的人的概括更好的印象盛情款待，并对他表示了微妙的敬意，但对他一无所知。

From East Egg, then, came the Chester Beckers and the Leeches and a man named Bunsen whom I knew at Yale and Doctor Webster Civet who was drowned last summer up in Maine. And the Hornbeams and the Willie Voltaires and a whole clan named Blackbuck who always gathered in a corner and flipped up their noses like goats at whosoever came near. And the Ismays and the Chrysties (or rather Hubert Auerbach and Mr. Chrystie’s wife) and Edgar Beaver, whose hair they say turned cotton-white one winter afternoon for no good reason at all.
然后，从东埃格来了切斯特·贝克尔夫妇、水蛭夫妇，还有我在耶鲁大学认识的一个名叫本生的人，以及去年夏天在缅因州淹死的韦伯斯特·西维特医生。还有角木家族、威利·伏尔泰家族，还有一个名叫布莱克巴克的家族，他们总是聚集在一个角落里，对任何走近的人像山羊一样竖起鼻子。还有伊斯梅夫妇和克里斯蒂夫妇（或者更确切地说是休伯特·奥尔巴赫和克里斯蒂先生的妻子）和埃德加·比弗，据说他们的头发在一个冬天的下午无缘无故地变成了棉花白。

Clarence Endive was from East Egg, as I remember. He came only once, in white knickerbockers, and had a fight with a bum named Etty in the garden. From farther out on the Island came the Cheadles and the O. R. P. Schraeders and the Stonewall Jackson Abrams of Georgia and the Fishguards and the Ripley Snells. Snell was there three days before he went to the penitentiary, so drunk out on the gravel drive that Mrs. Ulysses Swett’s automobile ran over his right hand. The Dancies came too and S. B. Whitebait, who was well over sixty, and Maurice A. Flink and the Hammerheads and Beluga the tobacco importer and Beluga’s girls.
我记得克拉伦斯·菊苣来自东卵。他只来过一次，穿着白色灯笼裤，在花园里和一个名叫埃蒂的流浪汉打了一架。从岛上更远的地方来了钱德尔家族、O·R·P·施拉德家族、佐治亚州的斯通沃尔·杰克逊·艾布拉姆斯家族、菲什加德家族和里普利·斯内尔家族。斯内尔在去监狱的三天前就在那里，当时他醉得醉醺醺的，在碎石路上，尤利西斯·斯威特夫人的汽车碾过他的右手。丹西夫妇也来了，还有六十多岁的 S. B. 怀特贝特 (S. B. Whitebait)、莫里斯 A. 弗林克 (Maurice A. Flink) 和锤头乐队 (Hammerheads)，以及烟草进口商白鲸 (Beluga) 和白鲸 (Beluga) 的女儿们。

From West Egg came the Poles and the Mulreadys and Cecil Roebuck and Cecil Schoen and Gulick the state senator and Newton Orchid who controlled Films Par Excellence and Eckhaust and Clyde Cohen and Don S. Schwartze (the son) and Arthur McCarty, all connected with the movies in one way or another. And the Catlips and the Bembergs and G. Earl Muldoon, brother to that Muldoon who afterward strangled his wife. Da Fontano the promoter came there, and Ed Legros and James B. (“Rot-Gut’) Ferret and the De Jongs and Ernest Lilly—they came to gamble and when Ferret wandered into the garden it meant he was cleaned out and Associated Traction would have to fluctuate profitably next day.
来自西埃格的波兰人、穆雷迪家族、塞西尔·罗巴克、塞西尔·舍恩、州参议员古利克、控制卓越电影公司的牛顿·兰花、埃克豪斯特、克莱德·科恩、唐·S·施瓦茨（儿子）和阿瑟·麦卡蒂，都与电影以这样或那样的方式。还有卡特里普家族、本伯格家族和 G. 马尔登伯爵，马尔登后来勒死了他的妻子。发起人达·丰塔诺 (Da Fontano) 来到了那里，艾德·莱格罗斯 (Ed Legros) 和詹姆斯·B. (“Rot-Gut”) 雪貂 (Ferret)、德容 (De Jongs) 和欧内斯特·莉莉 (Ernest Lilly) 来了——他们是来赌博的，当雪貂走进花园时，就意味着他被清理干净了，相关牵引第二天就必须波动盈利。

A man named Klipspringer was there so often and so long that he became known as ‘the boarder’—I doubt if he had any other home. Of theatrical people there were Gus Waize and Horace O’Donavan and Lester Meyer and George Duckweed and Francis Bull. Also from New York were the Chromes and the Backhyssons and the Dennickers and Russel Betty and the Corrigans and the Kellehers and the Dewars and the Scullys and S. W. Belcher and the Smirkes and the young Quinns, divorced now, and Henry L. Palmetto who killed himself by jumping in front of a subway train in Times Square.
一个名叫克利普斯普林格的人经常在那里呆很长时间，以至于他被称为“寄宿者”——我怀疑他是否还有其他家。戏剧界人士中有格斯·维兹、霍勒斯·奥多纳万、莱斯特·迈耶、乔治·达克韦德和弗朗西斯·布尔。同样来自纽约的还有克罗姆夫妇、巴克​​希森夫妇、丹尼克夫妇、拉塞尔·贝蒂夫妇、科里根夫妇、凯莱赫夫妇、杜瓦夫妇、斯卡利夫妇、S.W.贝尔彻夫妇、斯莫克斯夫妇、年轻的奎因夫妇（现已离婚），以及自杀的亨利·L·帕尔梅托。在时代广场的地铁列车前跳下。

Benny McClenahan arrived always with four girls. They were never quite the same ones in physical person but they were so identical one with another that it inevitably seemed they had been there before. I have forgotten their names—Jaqueline, I think, or else Consuela or Gloria or Judy or June, and their last names were either the melodious names of flowers and months or the sterner ones of the great American capitalists whose cousins, if pressed, they would confess themselves to be.
本尼·麦克莱纳汉总是带着四个女孩来。他们在肉体上从来都不是完全相同的，但他们彼此是如此相似，以至于不可避免地看起来他们以前曾出现过。我忘记了他们的名字——杰奎琳，我想，或者康苏埃拉或格洛丽亚或朱迪或琼，他们的姓氏要么是花名和月份的悠扬名字，要么是伟大的美国资本家的严肃名字，如果追问的话，他们的表兄弟，他们会承认自己是。

In addition to all these I can remember that Faustina O’Brien came there at least once and the Baedeker girls and young Brewer who had his nose shot off in the war and Mr. Albrucksburger and Miss Haag, his fiancée, and Ardita Fitz-Peters, and Mr. P. Jewett, once head of the American Legion, and Miss Claudia Hip with a man reputed to be her chauffeur, and a prince of something whom we called Duke and whose name, if I ever knew it, I have forgotten.
除了所有这些，我还记得福斯蒂娜·奥布莱恩至少来过一次，还有贝德克女孩和在战争中鼻子被射掉的年轻布鲁尔，还有阿尔布鲁克斯伯格先生和哈格小姐，他的未婚妻，还有阿蒂塔·菲茨-彼得斯和曾任美国军团团长的 P. 朱厄特先生，以及克劳迪娅·希普小姐和一位据说是她的司机的男人，还有一位我们称之为杜克的王子，他的名字，如果我知道的话，我已经忘记了。

All these people came to Gatsby’s house in the summer.
夏天，所有这些人都来到了盖茨比家。

At nine o’clock, one morning late in July Gatsby’s gorgeous car lurched up the rocky drive to my door and gave out a burst of melody from its three noted horn. It was the first time he had called on me though I had gone to two of his parties, mounted in his hydroplane, and, at his urgent invitation, made frequent use of his beach.
七月下旬的一个早晨，九点钟，盖茨比的那辆华丽的汽车在崎岖的车道上摇摇晃晃地开到我家门口，并从三个响亮的喇叭中发出一阵旋律。这是他第一次拜访我，尽管我曾乘坐他的水上飞机参加过他的两次聚会，并且在他的紧急邀请下经常使用他的海滩。

‘Good morning, old sport. You’re having lunch with me today and I thought we’d ride up together.’
“早上好，老伙计。”你今天和我一起吃午饭，我想我们可以一起骑车上去。”

He was balancing himself on the dashboard of his car with that resourcefulness of movement that is so peculiarly American—that comes, I suppose, with the absence of lifting work or rigid sitting in youth and, even more, with the formless grace of our nervous, sporadic games. This quality was continually breaking through his punctilious manner in the shape of restlessness. He was never quite still; there was always a tapping foot somewhere or the impatient opening and closing of a hand.
他在汽车的仪表盘上保持着平衡，动作灵活，这是美国特有的——我想，这源于年轻时没有举重的工作或僵硬的坐姿，更重要的是，我们紧张的无形的优雅、零星游戏。这种品质不断地以不安的形式突破他一丝不苟的态度。他从来没有完全安静过。某处总有脚步声，或者一只手不耐烦地张开又合拢。

He saw me looking with admiration at his car.
他看到我用钦佩的目光看着他的车。

‘It’s pretty, isn’t it, old sport.’ He jumped off to give me a better view. ‘Haven’t you ever seen it before?’
“这很漂亮，不是吗，老伙计。”他跳了下来，以便让我看得更清楚。 “你以前没见过吗？”

I’d seen it. Everybody had seen it. It was a rich cream color, bright with nickel, swollen here and there in its monstrous length with triumphant hatboxes and supper-boxes and tool-boxes, and terraced with a labyrinth of windshields that mirrored a dozen suns. Sitting down behind many layers of glass in a sort of green leather conservatory we started to town.
我见过。每个人都见过它。它是浓郁的奶油色，镍色明亮，到处都膨胀着可怕的长度，里面装着凯旋的帽盒、晚餐盒和工具箱，梯田上有迷宫般的挡风玻璃，反射着十几个太阳。我们坐在一个类似绿色皮革温室的多层玻璃后面，开始进城。

I had talked with him perhaps half a dozen times in the past month and found, to my disappointment, that he had little to say. So my first impression, that he was a person of some undefined consequence, had gradually faded and he had become simply the proprietor of an elaborate roadhouse next door.
在过去的一个月里，我和他谈了大概六次，但令我失望的是，他几乎没什么可说的。因此，我对他的第一印象，即他是一个具有某种不确定重要性的人，已经逐渐消失，他只是隔壁一家精致的路边旅馆的老板。

And then came that disconcerting ride. We hadn’t reached West Egg village before Gatsby began leaving his elegant sentences unfinished and slapping himself indecisively on the knee of his caramel-colored suit.
然后就是令人不安的旅程。我们还没到达西埃格村，盖茨比就开始把他优雅的句子未说完，犹豫不决地拍打自己焦糖色西装的膝盖。

‘Look here, old sport,’ he broke out surprisingly. ‘What’s your opinion of me, anyhow?’
“看这里，老伙计，”他惊讶地说道。 “你对我有什么看法？”

A little overwhelmed, I began the generalized evasions which that question deserves.
有点不知所措，我开始普遍回避这个问题。

‘Well, I’m going to tell you something about my life,’ he interrupted. ‘I don’t want you to get a wrong idea of me from all these stories you hear.’
“好吧，我要告诉你一些关于我生活的事情，”他打断道。 “我不想让你从你听到的这些故事中对我产生错误的认识。”

So he was aware of the bizarre accusations that flavored conversation in his halls.
所以他意识到了在他的大厅里引起谈话的奇怪指控。

‘I’ll tell you God’s truth.’ His right hand suddenly ordered divine retribution to stand by. ‘I am the son of some wealthy people in the middle-west—all dead now. I was brought up in America but educated at Oxford because all my ancestors have been educated there for many years. It is a family tradition.’
“我告诉你神的真相。”他的右手突然下令神罚待命。 “我是中西部一些富人的儿子——现在都死了。我在美国长大，但在牛津接受教育，因为我所有的祖先都在那里接受了多年的教育。这是一个家庭传统。”

He looked at me sideways—and I knew why Jordan Baker had believed he was lying. He hurried the phrase ‘educated at Oxford,’ or swallowed it or choked on it as though it had bothered him before. And with this doubt his whole statement fell to pieces and I wondered if there wasn’t something a little sinister about him after all.
他斜眼看着我——我知道为什么乔丹·贝克相信他在撒谎。他匆匆说出“在牛津受过教育”这个词，或者咽下去，或者噎住了，就好像这句话以前困扰过他一样。带着这样的怀疑，他的整个陈述都支离破碎了，我想知道他到底是不是有一点险恶的地方。

‘What part of the middle-west?’ I inquired casually.
“中西部的哪个地区？”我漫不经心地问道。

‘San Francisco.’
'旧金山。'

‘I see.’
'我懂了。'

‘My family all died and I came into a good deal of money.’
“我的家人都去世了，我却赚了很多钱。”

His voice was solemn as if the memory of that sudden extinction of a clan still haunted him. For a moment I suspected that he was pulling my leg but a glance at him convinced me otherwise.
他的声音肃穆，仿佛还记得那场突然灭族的事。有一瞬间，我怀疑他是在开玩笑，但看了他一眼，我确信事实并非如此。

‘After that I lived like a young rajah in all the capitals of Europe—Paris, Venice, Rome—collecting jewels, chiefly rubies, hunting big game, painting a little, things for myself only, and trying to forget something very sad that had happened to me long ago.’
“此后，我像年轻的王公一样生活在欧洲所有的首都——巴黎、威尼斯、罗马——收集珠宝，主要是红宝石，狩猎大型动物，画一点画，只为自己做事，并试图忘记一些非常悲伤的事情，很久以前就发生在我身上了。

With an effort I managed to restrain my incredulous laughter. The very phrases were worn so threadbare that they evoked no image except that of a turbaned ‘character’ leaking sawdust at every pore as he pursued a tiger through the Bois de Boulogne.
我努力忍住难以置信的笑声。这些短语都显得如此陈旧，以至于除了一个戴着头巾的“角色”在布洛涅森林追赶老虎时，每个毛孔都漏出木屑之外，它们没有唤起任何形象。

‘Then came the war, old sport. It was a great relief and I tried very hard to die but I seemed to bear an enchanted life. I accepted a commission as first lieutenant when it began. In the Argonne Forest I took two machine-gun detachments so far forward that there was a half mile gap on either side of us where the infantry couldn’t advance. We stayed there two days and two nights, a hundred and thirty men with sixteen Lewis guns, and when the infantry came up at last they found the insignia of three German divisions among the piles of dead. I was promoted to be a major and every Allied government gave me a decoration—even Montenegro, little Montenegro down on the Adriatic Sea!’
“然后战争就来了，老兄。这是一种极大的解脱，我非常努力地想死，但我似乎拥有一种迷人的生活。当任务开始时，我接受了中尉的任命。在阿贡森林里，我带着两个机枪分队向前推进，以至于我们两侧都有半英里的间隙，步兵无法前进。我们在那里呆了两天两夜，一百三十个人，配备十六门刘易斯炮，当步兵最后出现时，他们在死者堆中发现了三个德国师的徽章。我被晋升为少校，每个盟军政府都给了我一枚勋章——甚至是黑山，亚得里亚海沿岸的小黑山！

Little Montenegro! He lifted up the words and nodded at them—with his smile. The smile comprehended Montenegro’s troubled history and sympathized with the brave struggles of the Montenegrin people. It appreciated fully the chain of national circumstances which had elicited this tribute from Montenegro’s warm little heart. My incredulity was submerged in fascination now; it was like skimming hastily through a dozen magazines.
小黑山！他举起这句话，微笑着对它们点点头。这个微笑理解了黑山的坎坷历史，同情黑山人民的勇敢斗争。它充分认识到一系列国情促使黑山温暖的小心灵表达了这种敬意。我的怀疑现在被迷住了。就像匆匆浏览十几本杂志一样。

He reached in his pocket and a piece of metal, slung on a ribbon, fell into my palm.
他把手伸进口袋，一块挂在丝带上的金属掉到了我的手掌里。

‘That’s the one from Montenegro.’
“那是来自黑山的。”

To my astonishment, the thing had an authentic look.
令我惊讶的是，这东西看起来很真实。

Orderi di Danilo, ran the circular legend, Montenegro, Nicolas Rex.
Orderi di Danilo，运行圆形传奇，黑山，尼古拉斯·雷克斯。

‘Turn it.’
“转动它。”

Major Jay Gatsby, I read, For Valour Extraordinary.
我读过杰伊·盖茨比少校的《非凡的勇气》。

‘Here’s another thing I always carry. A souvenir of Oxford days. It was taken in Trinity Quad—the man on my left is now the Earl of Dorcaster.’
“这是我一直随身携带的另一件东西。牛津时代的纪念品。它是在三一广场拍摄的——我左边的那个人现在是多卡斯特伯爵。

It was a photograph of half a dozen young men in blazers loafing in an archway through which were visible a host of spires. There was Gatsby, looking a little, not much, younger—with a cricket bat in his hand.
照片上有六名穿着西装外套的年轻人在拱门里闲逛，透过拱门可以看到许多尖塔。盖茨比在那儿，看起来年轻了一点，但也年轻不了多少——手里拿着一根板球棒。

Then it was all true. I saw the skins of tigers flaming in his palace on the Grand Canal; I saw him opening a chest of rubies to ease, with their crimson-lighted depths, the gnawings of his broken heart.
然后这一切都是真的。我在大运河上的宫殿里看到了虎皮在燃烧；我看见他打开了一箱红宝石，以缓解他破碎的心的痛苦，红宝石的深红色光芒映照着他的内心。

‘I’m going to make a big request of you today,’ he said, pocketing his souvenirs with satisfaction, ‘so I thought you ought to know something about me. I didn’t want you to think I was just some nobody. You see, I usually find myself among strangers because I drift here and there trying to forget the sad thing that happened to me.’ He hesitated. ‘You’ll hear about it this afternoon.’
“今天我要向你提出一个大要求，”他说，满意地将纪念品装进口袋，“所以我认为你应该了解一些关于我的事情。”我不想让你认为我只是个无名小卒。你看，我经常发现自己置身于陌生人之中，因为我到处漂泊，试图忘记发生在我身上的悲伤的事情。”他犹豫了。 “今天下午你就会听到这件事。”

‘At lunch?’
“午餐时？”

‘No, this afternoon. I happened to find out that you’re taking Miss Baker to tea.’
“不，今天下午。我碰巧发现你要带贝克小姐去喝茶。”

‘Do you mean you’re in love with Miss Baker?’
“你的意思是你爱上了贝克小姐？”

‘No, old sport, I’m not. But Miss Baker has kindly consented to speak to you about this matter.’
“不，老兄，我不是。”但贝克小姐善意地同意和你谈谈这件事。”

I hadn’t the faintest idea what ‘this matter’ was, but I was more annoyed than interested. I hadn’t asked Jordan to tea in order to discuss Mr. Jay Gatsby. I was sure the request would be something utterly fantastic and for a moment I was sorry I’d ever set foot upon his overpopulated lawn.
我根本不知道‘这件事’是什么，但我更多的是恼怒而不是感兴趣。我请乔丹喝茶并不是为了讨论杰伊·盖茨比先生。我确信这个请求将是非常美妙的事情，有那么一刻，我为自己踏上他人口过多的草坪而感到遗憾。

He wouldn’t say another word. His correctness grew on him as we neared the city. We passed Port Roosevelt, where there was a glimpse of red-belted ocean-going ships, and sped along a cobbled slum lined with the dark, undeserted saloons of the faded gilt nineteen-hundreds. Then the valley of ashes opened out on both sides of us, and I had a glimpse of Mrs. Wilson straining at the garage pump with panting vitality as we went by.
他不再多说一个字。当我们接近这座城市时，他的正确性越来越强。我们经过罗斯福港，在那里瞥见了几艘系着红色腰带的远洋轮船，然后沿着一个鹅卵石铺成的贫民窟疾驰而过，贫民窟两旁排列着褪色的镀金 1900 辆黑暗而无人的轿车。然后，灰烬谷在我们两侧展开，当我们经过时，我瞥见威尔逊夫人气喘吁吁地用力拉着车库水泵。

With fenders spread like wings we scattered light through half Astoria—only half, for as we twisted among the pillars of the elevated I heard the familiar ‘jug—jug—SPAT!’ of a motor cycle, and a frantic policeman rode alongside.
随着挡泥板像翅膀一样张开，我们将光线散射到了阿斯托利亚的一半——只有一半，因为当我们在高架桥的柱子之间盘旋时，我听到了熟悉的摩托车“咕咕咕”的声音，旁边还有一名疯狂的警察。

‘All right, old sport,’ called Gatsby. We slowed down. Taking a white card from his wallet he waved it before the man’s eyes.
“好吧，老伙计，”盖茨比喊道。我们放慢了速度。他从钱包里拿出一张白色卡片，在那个人眼前挥舞着。

‘Right you are,’ agreed the policeman, tipping his cap. ‘Know you next time, Mr. Gatsby. Excuse ME!’
“你说得对。”警察一边点头一边表示同意。 “下次认识你，盖茨比先生。”打扰一下！'

‘What was that?’ I inquired. ‘The picture of Oxford?’
“那是什么？”我问道。 “牛津的照片？”

‘I was able to do the commissioner a favor once, and he sends me a Christmas card every year.’
“我曾经帮过专员一个忙，他每年都会给我寄一张圣诞贺卡。”

Over the great bridge, with the sunlight through the girders making a constant flicker upon the moving cars, with the city rising up across the river in white heaps and sugar lumps all built with a wish out of non-olfactory money. The city seen from the Queensboro Bridge is always the city seen for the first time, in its first wild promise of all the mystery and the beauty in the world.
跨过大桥，阳光透过大梁，不断闪烁在行驶的汽车上，城市在河对岸以白色的堆和糖块的形式升起，所有这些都是用无嗅觉的钱建造的。从皇后区大桥上看到的这座城市总是第一次看到的城市，第一次看到世界上所有的神秘和美丽。

A dead man passed us in a hearse heaped with blooms, followed by two carriages with drawn blinds and by more cheerful carriages for friends. The friends looked out at us with the tragic eyes and short upper lips of south-eastern Europe, and I was glad that the sight of Gatsby’s splendid car was included in their somber holiday. As we crossed Blackwell’s Island a limousine passed us, driven by a white chauffeur, in which sat three modish Negroes, two bucks and a girl. I laughed aloud as the yolks of their eyeballs rolled toward us in haughty rivalry.
一名死者乘坐一辆堆满鲜花的灵车从我们身边驶过，后面跟着两辆拉着百叶窗的马车，以及载朋友的更欢快的马车。朋友们用东南欧人那种悲惨的眼神和短小的上唇看着我们，我很高兴看到盖茨比那辆华丽的汽车出现在他们阴沉的假期中。当我们穿过布莱克韦尔岛时，一辆豪华轿车从我们身边驶过，由一名白人司机驾驶，车上坐着三个时髦的黑人，两个雄鹿和一个女孩。当他们的眼黄在傲慢的竞争中向我们滚动时，我大声笑了起来。

‘Anything can happen now that we’ve slid over this bridge,’ I thought; ‘anything at all….’
“既然我们已经跨过了这座桥，任何事情都有可能发生。”我想。 “任何事情……”

Even Gatsby could happen, without any particular wonder.
即使是盖茨比也可能发生，这并不奇怪。

Roaring noon. In a well-fanned Forty-second Street cellar I met Gatsby for lunch. Blinking away the brightness of the street outside my eyes picked him out obscurely in the anteroom, talking to another man.
正午喧嚣。在四十二街一个通风良好的地窖里，我遇见了盖茨比共进午餐。我眨了眨眼睛，看不到外面街道的光亮，隐约看到他在前厅里和另一个男人说话。

‘Mr. Carraway this is my friend Mr. Wolfshiem.’
'先生。卡罗威，这是我的朋友沃尔夫希姆先生。

A small, flat-nosed Jew raised his large head and regarded me with two fine growths of hair which luxuriated in either nostril. After a moment I discovered his tiny eyes in the half darkness.
一个小个子、扁鼻子的犹太人抬起他的大脑袋，看着我，两个鼻孔里都长着两根细长的毛发。过了一会儿，我在半明半暗的黑暗中发现了他的小眼睛。

‘—so I took one look at him—’ said Mr. Wolfshiem, shaking my hand earnestly, ‘—and what do you think I did?’
“——所以我看了他一眼——”沃尔夫山姆先生认真地握着我的手说道，“——你认为我做了什么？”

‘What?’ I inquired politely.
“什么？”我礼貌地问道。

But evidently he was not addressing me for he dropped my hand and covered Gatsby with his expressive nose.
但显然他并不是在对我说话，因为他放下了我的手，用他富有表情的鼻子遮住了盖茨比。

‘I handed the money to Katspaugh and I sid, ‘All right, Katspaugh, don’t pay him a penny till he shuts his mouth.’ He shut it then and there.’
“我把钱递给卡特斯博，然后说道：‘好吧，卡特斯博，在他闭嘴之前不要付给他一分钱。’他当场就闭嘴了。”

Gatsby took an arm of each of us and moved forward into the restaurant whereupon Mr. Wolfshiem swallowed a new sentence he was starting and lapsed into a somnambulatory abstraction.
盖茨比拉着我们每个人的手臂，走进餐厅，沃尔夫山姆先生吞下了他即将开始的新句子，陷入了梦游般的抽象状态。

‘Highballs?’ asked the head waiter.
“高杯酒？”领班问道。

‘This is a nice restaurant here,’ said Mr. Wolfshiem looking at the Presbyterian nymphs on the ceiling. ‘But I like across the street better!’
“这是一家不错的餐厅，”沃尔夫山姆先生看着天花板上的长老会仙女说道。 “但我更喜欢街对面！”

‘Yes, highballs,’ agreed Gatsby, and then to Mr. Wolfshiem: ‘It’s too hot over there.’
“是的，威士忌，”盖茨比同意道，然后又对沃尔夫希姆先生说：“那边太热了。”

‘Hot and small—yes,’ said Mr. Wolfshiem, ‘but full of memories.’
“又热又小——是的，”沃尔夫山姆先生说，“但充满了回忆。”

‘What place is that?’ I asked.
“那是什么地方？”我问道。

‘The old Metropole.
‘老大都会。

‘The old Metropole,’ brooded Mr. Wolfshiem gloomily. ‘Filled with faces dead and gone. Filled with friends gone now forever. I can’t forget so long as I live the night they shot Rosy Rosenthal there. It was six of us at the table and Rosy had eat and drunk a lot all evening. When it was almost morning the waiter came up to him with a funny look and says somebody wants to speak to him outside. ‘All right,’ says Rosy and begins to get up and I pulled him down in his chair.
“老大都会，”沃尔夫山姆先生郁闷地沉思道。 ‘充满了死亡和消失的面孔。充满了现在永远消失的朋友。只要我还活着，我就不会忘记他们在那里射杀罗西·罗森塔尔的那天晚上。餐桌上有我们六个人，罗西整个晚上都吃了很多东西，喝了很多东西。快到早上的时候，服务员一脸滑稽地走到他面前，说有人想在外面和他说话。 “好吧，”罗西说着站了起来，我把他拉到椅子上。

’ ‘Let the bastards come in here if they want you, Rosy, but don’t you, so help me, move outside this room.’
” “如果那些混蛋想要你，就让他们进来吧，罗西，但你不想要吗，所以帮我，搬出这个房间。”

‘It was four o’clock in the morning then, and if we’d of raised the blinds we’d of seen daylight.’
“当时是凌晨四点，如果我们拉起百叶窗，我们就能看到日光了。”

‘Did he go?’ I asked innocently.
“他走了吗？”我天真地问。

‘Sure he went,’—Mr. Wolfshiem’s nose flashed at me indignantly—‘He turned around in the door and says, ‘Don’t let that waiter take away my coffee!’ Then he went out on the sidewalk and they shot him three times in his full belly and drove away.’
“他当然去了，”——先生。沃尔夫山姆的鼻子愤怒地看着我——“他在门口转过身来说，‘别让那个服务员拿走我的咖啡！’然后他走到人行道上，他们朝他吃饱的肚子开了三枪，然后开车离开了。” .'

‘Four of them were electrocuted,’ I said, remembering.
“其中四个人触电了，”我回忆道。

‘Five with Becker.’ His nostrils turned to me in an interested way. ‘I understand you’re looking for a business gonnegtion.’
“五个和贝克尔一起。”他的鼻孔饶有兴趣地转向我。 “我知道你正在寻找生意。”

The juxtaposition of these two remarks was startling. Gatsby answered for me:
这两句话放在一起，令人震惊。盖茨比为我回答：

‘Oh, no,’ he exclaimed, ‘this isn’t the man!’
“哦，不，”他惊呼道，“这不是那个人！”

‘No?’ Mr. Wolfshiem seemed disappointed.
“没有？”沃尔夫山姆先生似乎很失望。

‘This is just a friend. I told you we’d talk about that some other time.’
‘这只是一个朋友。我告诉过你我们下次再讨论这个问题。

‘I beg your pardon,’ said Mr. Wolfshiem, ‘I had a wrong man.’
“请原谅，”沃尔夫山姆先生说，“我找错了人。”

A succulent hash arrived, and Mr. Wolfshiem, forgetting the more sentimental atmosphere of the old Metropole, began to eat with ferocious delicacy. His eyes, meanwhile, roved very slowly all around the room—he completed the arc by turning to inspect the people directly behind. I think that, except for my presence, he would have taken one short glance beneath our own table.
一道多汁的杂烩端上来，沃尔夫山姆先生忘记了老大都会的伤感氛围，开始大快朵颐。与此同时，他的目光非常缓慢地在房间里扫视——他通过转身观察正后方的人来完成这个弧线。我想，如果没有我在场，他一定会在我们桌子底下瞥一眼。

‘Look here, old sport,’ said Gatsby, leaning toward me, ‘I’m afraid I made you a little angry this morning in the car.’
“听着，老伙计，”盖茨比靠向我说道，“恐怕今天早上在车里我让你有点生气了。”

There was the smile again, but this time I held out against it.
笑容再次出现，但这次我忍住了。

‘I don’t like mysteries,’ I answered. ‘And I don’t understand why you won’t come out frankly and tell me what you want. Why has it all got to come through Miss Baker?’
“我不喜欢神秘，”我回答道。 “我不明白你为什么不坦白地告诉我你想要什么。为什么这一切都要通过贝克小姐来解决？

‘Oh, it’s nothing underhand,’ he assured me. ‘Miss Baker’s a great sportswoman, you know, and she’d never do anything that wasn’t all right.’
“哦，这不是秘密，”他向我保证。 “贝克小姐是一位伟大的女运动员，你知道，她从来不会做任何不好的事情。”

Suddenly he looked at his watch, jumped up and hurried from the room leaving me with Mr. Wolfshiem at the table.
突然，他看了看手表，跳了起来，匆匆离开了房间，留下我和沃尔夫山姆先生坐在桌边。

‘He has to telephone,’ said Mr. Wolfshiem, following him with his eyes. ‘Fine fellow, isn’t he? Handsome to look at and a perfect gentleman.’
“他必须打电话，”沃尔夫山姆先生说道，目光追随着他。 ‘好人，不是吗？看起来很英俊，是一位完美的绅士。”

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘He’s an Oggsford man.’
“他是奥格斯福德人。”

‘Oh!’
'哦！'

‘He went to Oggsford College in England. You know Oggsford College?’
“他去了英国的奥格斯福德学院。你知道奥格斯福德学院吗？

‘I’ve heard of it.’
“我听说过。”

‘It’s one of the most famous colleges in the world.’
“这是世界上最著名的大学之一。”

‘Have you known Gatsby for a long time?’ I inquired.
“你认识盖茨比很久了吗？”我问道。

‘Several years,’ he answered in a gratified way. ‘I made the pleasure of his acquaintance just after the war. But I knew I had discovered a man of fine breeding after I talked with him an hour. I said to myself: ‘There’s the kind of man you’d like to take home and introduce to your mother and sister.’ ‘ He paused. ‘I see you’re looking at my cuff buttons.’
“好几年了。”他满意地回答。 “战后不久，我很高兴认识了他。但在与他交谈一个小时后，我知道我发现了一个有教养的人。我对自己说：“你想把这样的人带回家，介绍给你的母亲和妹妹。”他停顿了一下。 “我发现你在看我的袖扣。”

I hadn’t been looking at them, but I did now. They were composed of oddly familiar pieces of ivory.
我没有看过它们，但现在我看了。它们是由非常熟悉的象牙碎片组成的。

‘Finest specimens of human molars,’ he informed me.
“人类臼齿的最佳标本，”他告诉我。

‘Well!’ I inspected them. ‘That’s a very interesting idea.’
“好吧！”我检查了它们。 “这是一个非常有趣的想法。”

‘Yeah.’ He flipped his sleeves up under his coat. ‘Yeah, Gatsby’s very careful about women. He would never so much as look at a friend’s wife.’
“是的。”他把袖子翻到外套下面。 ‘是的，盖茨比对女人非常小心。他从来不会看朋友的妻子一眼。

When the subject of this instinctive trust returned to the table and sat down Mr. Wolfshiem drank his coffee with a jerk and got to his feet.
当这个本能的信任的对象回到桌边坐下时，沃尔夫山姆先生猛地喝了一口咖啡，然后站了起来。

‘I have enjoyed my lunch,’ he said, ‘and I’m going to run off from you two young men before I outstay my welcome.’
“我吃得很开心，”他说，“在我不受欢迎之前，我要离开你们两个年轻人。”

‘Don’t hurry, Meyer,’ said Gatsby, without enthusiasm. Mr. Wolfshiem raised his hand in a sort of benediction.
“别着急，迈耶，”盖茨比毫无热情地说。沃尔夫山姆先生举起了手，表示祝福。

‘You’re very polite but I belong to another generation,’ he announced solemnly. ‘You sit here and discuss your sports and your young ladies and your——’ He supplied an imaginary noun with another wave of his hand—‘As for me, I am fifty years old, and I won’t impose myself on you any longer.’
“你很有礼貌，但我属于另一代人，”他郑重地宣布。 “你坐在这里讨论你的运动、你的小姐和你的——”他又一挥手，提供了一个想象中的名词——“至于我，我已经五十岁了，我不会把自己强加给你。”更长。

As he shook hands and turned away his tragic nose was trembling. I wondered if I had said anything to offend him.
当他握手并转过身去时，他悲惨的鼻子在颤抖。我想知道我是否说过任何冒犯他的话。

‘He becomes very sentimental sometimes,’ explained Gatsby. ‘This is one of his sentimental days. He’s quite a character around New York—a denizen of Broadway.’
“他有时会变得非常感性，”盖茨比解释道。 “这是他感伤的日子之一。他是纽约的名人——百老汇的居民。

‘Who is he anyhow—an actor?’
“他到底是谁——一个演员？”

‘No.’
'不。'

‘A dentist?’
'一名牙医？'

‘Meyer Wolfshiem? No, he’s a gambler.’ Gatsby hesitated, then added coolly: ‘He’s the man who fixed the World’s Series back in 1919.’
“迈耶·沃尔夫山姆？不，他是个赌徒。”盖茨比犹豫了一下，然后冷静地补充道：“他是 1919 年操纵世界职业棒球大赛的人。”

‘Fixed the World’s Series?’ I repeated.
“修复了世界职业棒球大赛？”我重复道。

The idea staggered me. I remembered of course that the World’s Series had been fixed in 1919 but if I had thought of it at all I would have thought of it as a thing that merely HAPPENED, the end of some inevitable chain. It never occurred to me that one man could start to play with the faith of fifty million people—with the single-mindedness of a burglar blowing a safe.
这个想法让我大吃一惊。我当然记得世界职业棒球大赛是在 1919 年确定的，但如果我有想过的话，我会认为它只是发生的事情，是某个不可避免的链条的终结。我从来没有想到一个人可以开始玩弄五千万人的信仰——就像一个窃贼炸毁保险箱一样一心一意。

‘How did he happen to do that?’ I asked after a minute.
“他是怎么做到的？”过了一会儿我问道。

‘He just saw the opportunity.’
“他只是看到了机会。”

‘Why isn’t he in jail?’
“他为什么没进监狱？”

‘They can’t get him, old sport. He’s a smart man.’
“他们抓不到他，老伙计。”他是一个聪明人。

I insisted on paying the check. As the waiter brought my change I caught sight of Tom Buchanan across the crowded room.
我坚持要付支票。当服务员给我找零钱时，我看到汤姆·布坎南穿过拥挤的房间。

‘Come along with me for a minute,’ I said. ‘I’ve got to say hello to someone.’
“跟我一起待一会儿，”我说。 “我得跟某人打个招呼。”

When he saw us Tom jumped up and took half a dozen steps in our direction.
汤姆一看到我们就跳了起来，朝我们的方向走了六步。

‘Where’ve you been?’ he demanded eagerly. ‘Daisy’s furious because you haven’t called up.’
“你去哪儿了？”他急切地问道。 “黛西很生气，因为你没有打电话。”

‘This is Mr. Gatsby, Mr. Buchanan.’
“这是盖茨比先生，布坎南先生。”

They shook hands briefly and a strained, unfamiliar look of embarrassment came over Gatsby’s face.
他们短暂地握了握手，盖茨比的脸上浮现出一种紧张、陌生的尴尬表情。

‘How’ve you been, anyhow?’ demanded Tom of me. ‘How’d you happen to come up this far to eat?’
“你最近怎么样？”汤姆问我。 “你怎么跑这么远来吃饭？”

‘I’ve been having lunch with Mr. Gatsby.’
“我一直在和盖茨比先生共进午餐。”

I turned toward Mr. Gatsby, but he was no longer there.
我转向盖茨比先生，但他已经不在了。

One October day in nineteen-seventeen—— (said Jordan Baker that afternoon, sitting up very straight on a straight chair in the tea-garden at the Plaza Hotel) —I was walking along from one place to another half on the sidewalks and half on the lawns. I was happier on the lawns because I had on shoes from England with rubber nobs on the soles that bit into the soft ground. I had on a new plaid skirt also that blew a little in the wind and whenever this happened the red, white and blue banners in front of all the houses stretched out stiff and said TUT-TUT-TUT-TUT in a disapproving way.
十月十九日十七分之一的一天——（那天下午，乔丹·贝克在广场酒店茶园的一把直椅上坐得笔直地说）——我从一个地方走到另一个地方，一半在人行道上，一半在人行道上。在草坪上。我在草坪上更开心，因为我穿着来自英国的鞋子，鞋底上有橡胶球，可以咬住松软的地面。我还穿着一条新格子裙，在风中有点飘动，每当这种情况发生时，所有房屋前的红、白、蓝横幅都僵硬地伸展开来，并用不以为然的方式说“嘟嘟嘟嘟嘟”。

The largest of the banners and the largest of the lawns belonged to Daisy Fay’s house. She was just eighteen, two years older than me, and by far the most popular of all the young girls in Louisville. She dressed in white, and had a little white roadster and all day long the telephone rang in her house and excited young officers from Camp Taylor demanded the privilege of monopolizing her that night, ‘anyways, for an hour!’
最大的横幅和最大的草坪属于黛西·费伊的房子。她只有十八岁，比我大两岁，是路易斯维尔所有年轻女孩中最受欢迎的。她穿着白色衣服，开着一辆白色小跑车，家里的电话整天响个不停，来自泰勒营的兴奋的年轻军官要求那天晚上独占她的特权，“无论如何，一个小时！”

When I came opposite her house that morning her white roadster was beside the curb, and she was sitting in it with a lieutenant I had never seen before. They were so engrossed in each other that she didn’t see me until I was five feet away.
那天早上，当我来到她家对面时，她的白色跑车停在路边，她和一位我以前从未见过的中尉坐在车里。他们是如此全神贯注，以至于直到我离她五英尺远时她才看到我。

‘Hello Jordan,’ she called unexpectedly. ‘Please come here.’
“你好乔丹，”她出乎意料地喊道。 '请来这里。'

I was flattered that she wanted to speak to me, because of all the older girls I admired her most. She asked me if I was going to the Red Cross and make bandages. I was. Well, then, would I tell them that she couldn’t come that day? The officer looked at Daisy while she was speaking, in a way that every young girl wants to be looked at sometime, and because it seemed romantic to me I have remembered the incident ever since. His name was Jay Gatsby and I didn’t lay eyes on him again for over four years—even after I’d met him on Long Island I didn’t realize it was the same man.
她想和我说话，我感到很荣幸，因为我最欣赏她的所有年长女孩。她问我是否要去红十字会制作绷带。我曾是。那么，我会告诉他们她那天不能来吗？警官在黛西说话时看着她，就像每个年轻女孩都想在某个时候被人注视一样，因为这对我来说很浪漫，从那以后我就记住了这件事。他的名字叫杰·盖茨比，我已经四年多没有再见过他了——即使我在长岛遇见他之后，我也没意识到这是同一个人。

That was nineteen-seventeen. By the next year I had a few beaux myself, and I began to play in tournaments, so I didn’t see Daisy very often. She went with a slightly older crowd—when she went with anyone at all. Wild rumors were circulating about her—how her mother had found her packing her bag one winter night to go to New York and say goodbye to a soldier who was going overseas. She was effectually prevented, but she wasn’t on speaking terms with her family for several weeks. After that she didn’t play around with the soldiers any more but only with a few flat-footed, short-sighted young men in town who couldn’t get into the army at all.
那是十九点十七分。到了第二年，我自己也有了几个男朋友，而且我开始参加锦标赛，所以我很少见到黛西。她和一群年纪稍大的人一起去——当她和任何人一起去的时候。关于她的谣言四起——她母亲发现她在一个冬夜收拾行囊前往纽约，向一名出国的士兵告别。她实际上被阻止了，但她已经好几个星期没有和家人说话了。从那以后，她就不再和士兵们一起玩了，只和城里几个根本进不去部队、目光短浅的年轻人在一起。

By the next autumn she was gay again, gay as ever. She had a debut after the Armistice, and in February she was presumably engaged to a man from New Orleans. In June she married Tom Buchanan of Chicago with more pomp and circumstance than Louisville ever knew before. He came down with a hundred people in four private cars and hired a whole floor of the Seelbach Hotel, and the day before the wedding he gave her a string of pearls valued at three hundred and fifty thousand dollars.
到了第二年秋天，她又变得快乐了，一如既往的快乐。停战后，她首次亮相，并在二月与一名来自新奥尔良的男子订婚。六月，她与芝加哥的汤姆·布坎南结婚，其盛况和环境比路易斯维尔以前所想象的还要盛大。他带着四辆私家车带着一百个人下来，租下了希尔巴赫酒店的一整层楼，婚礼前一天送给她一串价值三十五万美元的珍珠。

I was bridesmaid. I came into her room half an hour before the bridal dinner, and found her lying on her bed as lovely as the June night in her flowered dress—and as drunk as a monkey. She had a bottle of sauterne in one hand and a letter in the other.
我是伴娘。婚宴前半小时，我走进她的房间，发现她躺在床上，穿着花裙子，像六月的夜晚一样可爱，而且醉得像只猴子。她一手拿着一瓶苏玳葡萄酒，另一只手拿着一封信。

’ ‘Gratulate me,’ she muttered. ‘Never had a drink before but oh, how I do enjoy it.’
” “谢谢我，”她低声说道。 “以前从未喝过酒，但是哦，我多么喜欢它。”

‘What’s the matter, Daisy?’
“怎么了，黛西？”

I was scared, I can tell you; I’d never seen a girl like that before.
我可以告诉你，我很害怕；我以前从未见过这样的女孩。

‘Here, dearis.’ She groped around in a waste-basket she had with her on the bed and pulled out the string of pearls. ‘Take ‘em downstairs and give ‘em back to whoever they belong to. Tell ‘em all Daisy’s change’ her mine. Say ‘Daisy’s change’ her mine!’.’
“给你，亲爱的。”她在床上的废纸篓里摸索着，拉出了那串珍珠。 “把它们带到楼下，然后还给它们所属的人。”告诉他们所有人黛西改变了她的。说‘黛西改变了’她的我的！”。

She began to cry—she cried and cried. I rushed out and found her mother’s maid and we locked the door and got her into a cold bath. She wouldn’t let go of the letter. She took it into the tub with her and squeezed it up into a wet ball, and only let me leave it in the soap dish when she saw that it was coming to pieces like snow.
她开始哭——哭啊哭啊。我冲出去找到了她母亲的女仆，我们锁上了门，让她洗了冷水澡。她不会放开那封信。她把它放进浴缸里，把它挤成一个湿球，当她看到它像雪一样碎裂时，才让我把它留在肥皂盒里。

But she didn’t say another word. We gave her spirits of ammonia and put ice on her forehead and hooked her back into her dress and half an hour later when we walked out of the room the pearls were around her neck and the incident was over. Next day at five o’clock she married Tom Buchanan without so much as a shiver and started off on a three months’ trip to the South Seas.
但她没有再说一句话。我们给了她氨水，在她的额头上放了冰块，然后把她重新穿上裙子，半小时后，当我们走出房间时，珍珠戴在了她的脖子上，事件就结束了。第二天五点钟，她毫无颤抖地嫁给了汤姆·布坎南，并开始了为期三个月的南海之旅。

I saw them in Santa Barbara when they came back and I thought I’d never seen a girl so mad about her husband. If he left the room for a minute she’d look around uneasily and say ‘Where’s Tom gone?’ and wear the most abstracted expression until she saw him coming in the door. She used to sit on the sand with his head in her lap by the hour rubbing her fingers over his eyes and looking at him with unfathomable delight. It was touching to see them together—it made you laugh in a hushed, fascinated way. That was in August. A week after I left Santa Barbara Tom ran into a wagon on the Ventura road one night and ripped a front wheel off his car. The girl who was with him got into the papers too because her arm was broken—she was one of the chambermaids in the Santa Barbara Hotel.
当他们回来时，我在圣巴巴拉见到了他们，我想我从来没有见过一个女孩对她的丈夫如此生气。如果他离开房间一分钟，她就会不安地环顾四周并说“汤姆去哪儿了？”并表现出最心不在焉的表情，直到她看到他进门为止。她常常坐在沙子上，把他的头放在腿上，一小时一小时地用手指揉搓他的眼睛，带着难以估量的喜悦看着他。看到他们在一起真是令人感动——它让你低声地、着迷地笑。那是在八月。我离开圣巴巴拉一周后，有一天晚上，汤姆在文图拉路上撞上了一辆马车，扯下了车的前轮。和他在一起的那个女孩也因为手臂骨折而上了报纸——她是圣巴巴拉酒店的女服务员之一。

The next April Daisy had her little girl and they went to France for a year. I saw them one spring in Cannes and later in Deauville and then they came back to Chicago to settle down. Daisy was popular in Chicago, as you know. They moved with a fast crowd, all of them young and rich and wild, but she came out with an absolutely perfect reputation. Perhaps because she doesn’t drink. It’s a great advantage not to drink among hard-drinking people. You can hold your tongue and, moreover, you can time any little irregularity of your own so that everybody else is so blind that they don’t see or care. Perhaps Daisy never went in for amour at all—and yet there’s something in that voice of hers….
第二年四月，黛西生下了她的小女儿，他们去法国呆了一年。有一年春天，我在戛纳见到了他们，后来又在多维尔见到了他们，然后他们回到了芝加哥定居下来。如你所知，黛西在芝加哥很受欢迎。他们和一大群人一起搬家，他们都年轻、富有、狂野，但她却获得了绝对完美的声誉。也许是因为她不喝酒。对于酗酒的人来说，不喝酒是一个很大的优势。你可以闭嘴，而且，你可以控制自己的任何一点不正常行为，这样其他人就变得盲目，看不到或不在乎。也许黛西根本就没有谈过恋爱——但她的声音里有一些东西……。

Well, about six weeks ago, she heard the name Gatsby for the first time in years. It was when I asked you—do you remember?—if you knew Gatsby in West Egg. After you had gone home she came into my room and woke me up, and said ‘What Gatsby?’ and when I described him—I was half asleep—she said in the strangest voice that it must be the man she used to know. It wasn’t until then that I connected this Gatsby with the officer in her white car.
嗯，大约六周前，她多年来第一次听到盖茨比这个名字。就在我问你——你还记得吗？——你是否认识西卵的盖茨比的时候。你回家后，她走进我的房间，叫醒了我，问：“什么盖茨比？”当我描述他时——我半睡半醒——她用最奇怪的声音说那一定是她以前认识的那个人。直到那时我才把这个盖茨比和她白色汽车里的军官联系起来。

When Jordan Baker had finished telling all this we had left the Plaza for half an hour and were driving in a Victoria through Central Park. The sun had gone down behind the tall apartments of the movie stars in the West Fifties and the clear voices of girls, already gathered like crickets on the grass, rose through the hot twilight:
当乔丹·贝克讲完这一切后，我们已经离开广场半个小时，开着一辆维多利亚汽车穿过中央公园。太阳已经落到了西五十年代电影明星的高大公寓后面，女孩们的清脆声音像蟋蟀一样聚集在草地上，在炎热的暮色中升起：

‘I’m the Sheik of Araby,
“我是阿拉比的酋长，

Your love belongs to me.
你的爱属于我。

At night when you’re are asleep,
晚上当你熟睡时，

Into your tent I’ll creep——’
我会爬进你的帐篷——’

‘It was a strange coincidence,’ I said.
“这是一个奇怪的巧合，”我说。

‘But it wasn’t a coincidence at all.’
“但这根本不是巧合。”

‘Why not?’
'为什么不？'

‘Gatsby bought that house so that Daisy would be just across the bay.’
“盖茨比买了那栋房子，这样黛西就在海湾对面。”

Then it had not been merely the stars to which he had aspired on that June night. He came alive to me, delivered suddenly from the womb of his purposeless splendor.
那么，在那个六月的夜晚，他所渴望的不仅仅是星星。他对我来说是活生生的，突然从他毫无目的的辉煌的子宫中诞生了。

‘He wants to know—’ continued Jordan ‘—if you’ll invite Daisy to your house some afternoon and then let him come over.’
“他想知道——”乔丹继续说道，“——你是否会在某个下午邀请黛西到你家，然后让他过来。”

The modesty of the demand shook me. He had waited five years and bought a mansion where he dispensed starlight to casual moths so that he could ‘come over’ some afternoon to a stranger’s garden.
这个谦虚的要求让我震惊。他等了五年，买了一座豪宅，在那里他向漫不经心的飞蛾发出星光，这样他就可以在某个下午“过来”到一个陌生人的花园。

‘Did I have to know all this before he could ask such a little thing?’
“我必须知道这一切之后他才能问这样的小事吗？”

‘He’s afraid. He’s waited so long. He thought you might be offended. You see he’s a regular tough underneath it all.’
‘他害怕了。他等了这么久了。他认为你可能会被冒犯。你看他在这一切之下都是一个普通的强者。

Something worried me.
有件事让我担心。

‘Why didn’t he ask you to arrange a meeting?’
“他为什么不请你安排一次会面？”

‘He wants her to see his house,’ she explained. ‘And your house is right next door.’
“他想让她看看他的房子，”她解释道。 “你的房子就在隔壁。”

‘Oh!’
'哦！'

‘I think he half expected her to wander into one of his parties, some night,’ went on Jordan, ‘but she never did. Then he began asking people casually if they knew her, and I was the first one he found. It was that night he sent for me at his dance, and you should have heard the elaborate way he worked up to it. Of course, I immediately suggested a luncheon in New York—and I thought he’d go mad:
“我想他有一半希望她会在某个晚上走进他的一个聚会，”乔丹继续说道，“但她从来没有这样做。”然后他开始随意地问人们是否认识她，我是他第一个找到的。那天晚上，他在舞会上叫我来，你应该听过他精心准备的方式。当然，我立即建议在纽约共进午餐——我想他会发疯的：

’ ‘I don’t want to do anything out of the way!’ he kept saying. ‘I want to see her right next door.’
” “我不想做任何碍事的事！”他不断地说。 “我想在隔壁见到她。”

‘When I said you were a particular friend of Tom’s he started to abandon the whole idea. He doesn’t know very much about Tom, though he says he’s read a Chicago paper for years just on the chance of catching a glimpse of Daisy’s name.’
“当我说你是汤姆的特别朋友时，他开始放弃整个想法。他对汤姆不太了解，尽管他说他多年来一直在阅读芝加哥报纸，只是为了有机会瞥见黛西的名字。

It was dark now, and as we dipped under a little bridge I put my arm around Jordan’s golden shoulder and drew her toward me and asked her to dinner. Suddenly I wasn’t thinking of Daisy and Gatsby any more but of this clean, hard, limited person who dealt in universal skepticism and who leaned back jauntily just within the circle of my arm. A phrase began to beat in my ears with a sort of heady excitement: ‘There are only the pursued, the pursuing, the busy and the tired.’
天已经黑了，当我们从一座小桥下走下来时，我用手臂搂住乔丹金色的肩膀，把她拉到我身边，请她吃晚饭。突然间，我不再想起黛西和盖茨比，而是想起了这个干净、坚强、有限的人，他处理普遍的怀疑主义，并愉快地靠在我的手臂上。有句话带着一种令人陶醉的兴奋在我耳边响起：“只有被追求的、被追求的、忙碌的和疲惫的。”

‘And Daisy ought to have something in her life,’ murmured Jordan to me.
“黛西的生活中应该有一些东西，”乔丹对我低声说道。

‘Does she want to see Gatsby?’
“她想见盖茨比吗？”

‘She’s not to know about it. Gatsby doesn’t want her to know. You’re just supposed to invite her to tea.’
‘她不应该知道这件事。盖茨比不想让她知道。你应该邀请她喝茶。

We passed a barrier of dark trees, and then the facade of Fifty-ninth Street, a block of delicate pale light, beamed down into the park. Unlike Gatsby and Tom Buchanan I had no girl whose disembodied face floated along the dark cornices and blinding signs and so I drew up the girl beside me, tightening my arms. Her wan, scornful mouth smiled and so I drew her up again, closer, this time to my face.
我们穿过一片漆黑的树木屏障，然后第五十九街的正面，一片柔和的苍白光线照射进公园。与盖茨比和汤姆·布坎南不同，我身边没有哪个女孩的脸庞漂浮在黑暗的飞檐和令人眼花缭乱的标志上，所以我把女孩拉到我身边，收紧双臂。她苍白、轻蔑的嘴微笑着，所以我再次把她拉近，这次离我的脸更近。

Chapter 5
第5章

When I came home to West Egg that night I was afraid for a moment that my house was on fire. Two o’clock and the whole corner of the peninsula was blazing with light which fell unreal on the shrubbery and made thin elongating glints upon the roadside wires. Turning a corner I saw that it was Gatsby’s house, lit from tower to cellar.
那天晚上，当我回到西埃格的家时，我一度担心我的房子着火了。两点钟，半岛的整个角落都闪耀着光芒，落在灌木丛上显得不真实，在路边的电线上发出细细的、细长的闪光。转过一个拐角，我看到那是盖茨比的房子，从塔楼到地窖都亮着灯。

At first I thought it was another party, a wild rout that had resolved itself into ‘hide-and-go-seek’ or ‘sardines-in-the-box’ with all the house thrown open to the game. But there wasn’t a sound. Only wind in the trees which blew the wires and made the lights go off and on again as if the house had winked into the darkness. As my taxi groaned away I saw Gatsby walking toward me across his lawn.
起初我以为这是另一场派对，一场疯狂的溃败，结果变成了“捉迷藏”或“盒子里的沙丁鱼”，所有的房子都开放给游戏。但没有任何声音。只有树上的风吹动了电线，让灯光忽明忽暗，仿佛房子眨眼消失在黑暗中。当我的出租车轰鸣着开走时，我看到盖茨比穿过他的草坪向我走来。

‘Your place looks like the world’s fair,’ I said.
“你的地方看起来就像世界博览会，”我说。

‘Does it?’ He turned his eyes toward it absently. ‘I have been glancing into some of the rooms. Let’s go to Coney Island, old sport. In my car.’
“是吗？”他心不在焉地将目光转向它。 “我浏览过一些房间。老兄，我们去康尼岛吧。在我的车里。

‘It’s too late.’
'太晚了。'

‘Well, suppose we take a plunge in the swimming pool? I haven’t made use of it all summer.’
“好吧，假设我们在游泳池里畅游一下？我整个夏天都没有使用过它。

‘I’ve got to go to bed.’
“我得去睡觉了。”

‘All right.’
'好的。'

He waited, looking at me with suppressed eagerness.
他等待着，用压抑的渴望看着我。

‘I talked with Miss Baker,’ I said after a moment. ‘I’m going to call up Daisy tomorrow and invite her over here to tea.’
“我和贝克小姐谈过，”过了一会儿我说道。 “明天我会给黛西打电话，邀请她来这里喝茶。”

‘Oh, that’s all right,’ he said carelessly. ‘I don’t want to put you to any trouble.’
“哦，没关系，”他漫不经心地说。 “我不想给你带来任何麻烦。”

‘What day would suit you?’
“哪一天适合你？”

‘What day would suit YOU?’ he corrected me quickly. ‘I don’t want to put you to any trouble, you see.’
“哪一天适合你？”他很快纠正了我。 “我不想给你带来任何麻烦，你瞧。”

‘How about the day after tomorrow?’ He considered for a moment. Then, with reluctance:
“后天怎么样？”他想了想。然后，不情愿地说：

‘I want to get the grass cut,’ he said.
“我想要把草割掉，”他说。

We both looked at the grass—there was a sharp line where my ragged lawn ended and the darker, well-kept expanse of his began. I suspected that he meant my grass.
我们都看着草地——我那片破烂的草坪和他那片更暗、维护得很好的草坪的起点之间有一条清晰的界限。我怀疑他指的是我的草。

‘There’s another little thing,’ he said uncertainly, and hesitated.
“还有一件小事，”他犹豫着，不确定地说。

‘Would you rather put it off for a few days?’ I asked.
“你愿意推迟几天吗？”我问。

‘Oh, it isn’t about that. At least——’ He fumbled with a series of beginnings. ‘Why, I thought—why, look here, old sport, you don’t make much money, do you?’
‘噢，不是这个问题。至少——”他摸索着一系列的开头。 “为什么，我想——为什么，看这里，老伙计，你赚不了多少钱，是吗？”

‘Not very much.’
'不是很多。'

This seemed to reassure him and he continued more confidently.
这似乎让他放心了，他更加自信地继续说道。

‘I thought you didn’t, if you’ll pardon my—you see, I carry on a little business on the side, a sort of sideline, you understand. And I thought that if you don’t make very much—You’re selling bonds, aren’t you, old sport?’
“我以为你没有，请原谅我的——你看，我还做点小生意，一种副业，你明白的。我想，如果你赚得不多——你就在卖债券，不是吗，老兄？

‘Trying to.’
'尝试去。'

‘Well, this would interest you. It wouldn’t take up much of your time and you might pick up a nice bit of money. It happens to be a rather confidential sort of thing.’
‘好吧，这会让你感兴趣的。它不会占用你太多的时间，而且你可能会赚到一大笔钱。这恰好是一件相当机密的事情。

I realize now that under different circumstances that conversation might have been one of the crises of my life. But, because the offer was obviously and tactlessly for a service to be rendered, I had no choice except to cut him off there.
我现在意识到，在不同的情况下，那次谈话可能是我一生的危机之一。但是，由于这个提议显然是不明智的，是为了提供服务，所以我别无选择，只能打断他。

‘I’ve got my hands full,’ I said. ‘I’m much obliged but I couldn’t take on any more work.’
“我忙得不可开交，”我说。 “我非常感激，但我无法承担更多的工作。”

‘You wouldn’t have to do any business with Wolfshiem.’ Evidently he thought that I was shying away from the ‘gonnegtion’ mentioned at lunch, but I assured him he was wrong. He waited a moment longer, hoping I’d begin a conversation, but I was too absorbed to be responsive, so he went unwillingly home.
“你不必和沃尔夫山做任何生意。”显然他认为我在回避午餐时提到的“gonnegtion”，但我向他保证他错了。他又等了一会儿，希望我能开始谈话，但我太专注了，没有反应，所以他不情愿地回家了。

The evening had made me light-headed and happy; I think I walked into a deep sleep as I entered my front door. So I didn’t know whether or not Gatsby went to Coney Island or for how many hours he ‘glanced into rooms’ while his house blazed gaudily on. I called up Daisy from the office next morning and invited her to come to tea.
那个晚上让我感到头晕目眩，心情愉快。我想当我走进前门时我就进入了深度睡眠。所以我不知道盖茨比是否去了科尼岛，也不知道他在房子灯火通明的情况下“看了一眼房间”了多少个小时。第二天早上，我从办公室给黛西打电话，邀请她来喝茶。

‘Don’t bring Tom,’ I warned her.
“别带汤姆来，”我警告她。

‘What?’
'什么？'

‘Don’t bring Tom.’
“别带汤姆来。”

‘Who is ‘Tom’?’ she asked innocently.
“‘汤姆’是谁？”她天真地问。

The day agreed upon was pouring rain. At eleven o’clock a man in a raincoat dragging a lawn-mower tapped at my front door and said that Mr. Gatsby had sent him over to cut my grass. This reminded me that I had forgotten to tell my Finn to come back so I drove into West Egg Village to search for her among soggy white-washed alleys and to buy some cups and lemons and flowers.
约定的日子，下着倾盆大雨。十一点钟，一个穿着雨衣拖着割草机的男人敲着我的前门，说盖茨比先生派他来给我割草。这让我想起我忘了告诉我的芬兰人回来，所以我开车去西埃格村，在湿漉漉的白色小巷里寻找她，买了一些杯子、柠檬和鲜花。

The flowers were unnecessary, for at two o’clock a greenhouse arrived from Gatsby’s, with innumerable receptacles to contain it. An hour later the front door opened nervously, and Gatsby in a white flannel suit, silver shirt and gold-colored tie hurried in. He was pale and there were dark signs of sleeplessness beneath his eyes.
这些花是不必要的，因为两点钟，一座温室从盖茨比家运来，里面有无数的容器来容纳它。一个小时后，前门紧张地打开了，穿着白色法兰绒西装、银色衬衫和金色领带的盖茨比匆匆走了进来。他脸色苍白，眼睛下面有深色的失眠迹象。

‘Is everything all right?’ he asked immediately.
“一切都好吗？”他立即问道。

‘The grass looks fine, if that’s what you mean.’
“草看起来不错，如果你是这个意思的话。”

‘What grass?’ he inquired blankly. ‘Oh, the grass in the yard.’ He looked out the window at it, but judging from his expression I don’t believe he saw a thing.
“什么草？”他茫然地问道。 “哦，院子里的草。”他看着窗外，但从他的表情来看，我不相信他看到了任何东西。

‘Looks very good,’ he remarked vaguely. ‘One of the papers said they thought the rain would stop about four. I think it was ‘The Journal.’ Have you got everything you need in the shape of—of tea?’
“看起来非常好，”他含糊地说。 “其中一份报纸说，他们认为雨会在四点左右停。我想是《华尔街日报》。你已经得到了你需要的一切——茶的形式吗？

I took him into the pantry where he looked a little reproachfully at the Finn. Together we scrutinized the twelve lemon cakes from the delicatessen shop.
我带他走进食品储藏室，他用一种责备的眼神看着芬兰人。我们一起仔细检查了熟食店的十二个柠檬蛋糕。

‘Will they do?’ I asked.
“他们会这么做吗？”我问。

‘Of course, of course! They’re fine!’ and he added hollowly, ‘…old sport.’
‘当然，当然！他们很好！”他空洞地补充道，“……老兄。”

The rain cooled about half-past three to a damp mist through which occasional thin drops swam like dew. Gatsby looked with vacant eyes through a copy of Clay’s ‘Economics,’ starting at the Finnish tread that shook the kitchen floor and peering toward the bleared windows from time to time as if a series of invisible but alarming happenings were taking place outside. Finally he got up and informed me in an uncertain voice that he was going home.
三点半左右，雨冷却成潮湿的雾气，偶尔有细细的水滴像露珠一样在其中游动。盖茨比目光茫然地翻阅着一本克莱的《经济学》，从震动厨房地板的芬兰人的脚步声开始，时不时地向模糊的窗户望去，仿佛外面正在发生一系列看不见但令人震惊的事情。最后他站起来，用不确定的声音告诉我他要回家了。

‘Why’s that?’
'为什么？'

‘Nobody’s coming to tea. It’s too late!’ He looked at his watch as if there was some pressing demand on his time elsewhere. ‘I can’t wait all day.’
“没有人来喝茶。太晚了！”他看了看手表，好像有什么急事需要他去其他地方。 “我不能等一整天。”

‘Don’t be silly; it’s just two minutes to four.’
‘别傻了；差两分钟就四点了。”

He sat down, miserably, as if I had pushed him, and simultaneously there was the sound of a motor turning into my lane. We both jumped up and, a little harrowed myself, I went out into the yard.
他痛苦地坐下来，好像是我推了他一样，与此同时，传来了一辆汽车驶入我车道的声音。我们俩都跳了起来，我心里有点难过，走到了院子里。

Under the dripping bare lilac trees a large open car was coming up the drive. It stopped. Daisy’s face, tipped sideways beneath a three-cornered lavender hat, looked out at me with a bright ecstatic smile.
在滴着水的光秃秃的紫丁香树下，一辆敞篷大车正沿着车道开过来。停了。黛西的脸在一顶淡紫色三角帽子下倾斜着，带着灿烂的欣喜若狂的微笑看着我。

‘Is this absolutely where you live, my dearest one?’
“这绝对是你住的地方吗，我最亲爱的？”

The exhilarating ripple of her voice was a wild tonic in the rain. I had to follow the sound of it for a moment, up and down, with my ear alone before any words came through. A damp streak of hair lay like a dash of blue paint across her cheek and her hand was wet with glistening drops as I took it to help her from the car.
她的声音令人兴奋，就像雨中的一剂狂野的滋补品。在听到任何话之前，我必须只用我的耳朵，上下追踪它的声音。一缕潮湿的头发像一抹蓝色油漆一样落在她的脸颊上，当我接过她的手去扶她下车时，她的手沾满了闪闪发光的水珠。

‘Are you in love with me,’ she said low in my ear. ‘Or why did I have to come alone?’
“你爱我吗？”她在我耳边低声说道。 “或者为什么我必须一个人来？”

‘That’s the secret of Castle Rackrent. Tell your chauffeur to go far away and spend an hour.’
“这就是拉克伦特城堡的秘密。”告诉你的司机去很远的地方，花一个小时。”

‘Come back in an hour, Ferdie.’ Then in a grave murmur, ‘His name is Ferdie.’
“一个小时后回来，费迪。”然后他用严肃的低语说道，“他的名字叫费迪。”

‘Does the gasoline affect his nose?’
“汽油会影响他的鼻子吗？”

‘I don’t think so,’ she said innocently. ‘Why?’
“我不这么认为，”她天真地说道。 '为什么？'

We went in. To my overwhelming surprise the living room was deserted.
我们进去了。令我惊讶的是，客厅里空无一人。

‘Well, that’s funny!’ I exclaimed.
“嗯，这很有趣！”我惊呼道。

‘What’s funny?’
'有什么好笑的？'

She turned her head as there was a light, dignified knocking at the front door. I went out and opened it. Gatsby, pale as death, with his hands plunged like weights in his coat pockets, was standing in a puddle of water glaring tragically into my eyes.
她转过头，门外响起了轻轻而庄重的敲门声。我出去打开它。盖茨比脸色苍白如死人，双手像重物一样插在外套口袋里，站在一滩水里，悲惨地瞪着我的眼睛。

With his hands still in his coat pockets he stalked by me into the hall, turned sharply as if he were on a wire and disappeared into the living room. It wasn’t a bit funny. Aware of the loud beating of my own heart I pulled the door to against the increasing rain.
他双手仍插在外套口袋里，跟着我走进大厅，猛地转身，消失在客厅里。这一点都不好笑。意识到自己的心跳声很大，我拉开了门，以抵御越来越大的雨。

For half a minute there wasn’t a sound. Then from the living room I heard a sort of choking murmur and part of a laugh followed by Daisy’s voice on a clear artificial note.
半分钟没有声音。然后，我从客厅里听到了一种令人窒息的低语声和笑声，接着是黛西的声音，声音清晰，不自然。

‘I certainly am awfully glad to see you again.’
“我真的很高兴再次见到你。”

A pause; it endured horribly. I had nothing to do in the hall so I went into the room.
停顿一下；它忍受着可怕的痛苦。我在大厅里无事可做，就进了房间。

Gatsby, his hands still in his pockets, was reclining against the mantelpiece in a strained counterfeit of perfect ease, even of boredom. His head leaned back so far that it rested against the face of a defunct mantelpiece clock and from this position his distraught eyes stared down at Daisy who was sitting frightened but graceful on the edge of a stiff chair.
盖茨比的双手仍然插在口袋里，斜倚在壁炉架上，一副非常轻松甚至无聊的样子。他的头向后倾斜得厉害，靠在了一个废弃的壁炉台钟的表面上，从这个位置，他心烦意乱的眼睛低头盯着黛西，黛西正惊恐但优雅地坐在一张硬椅子的边缘。

‘We’ve met before,’ muttered Gatsby. His eyes glanced momentarily at me and his lips parted with an abortive attempt at a laugh. Luckily the clock took this moment to tilt dangerously at the pressure of his head, whereupon he turned and caught it with trembling fingers and set it back in place. Then he sat down, rigidly, his elbow on the arm of the sofa and his chin in his hand.
“我们以前见过。”盖茨比低声说道。他的眼睛瞥了我一眼，嘴唇张开，想笑，但没有成功。幸运的是，时钟在他头部的压力下发生了危险的倾斜，于是他转身用颤抖的手指抓住了它，并将其放回原位。然后他僵硬地坐下来，手肘撑在沙发扶手上，手托着下巴。

‘I’m sorry about the clock,’ he said.
“我对时钟感到抱歉，”他说。

My own face had now assumed a deep tropical burn. I couldn’t muster up a single commonplace out of the thousand in my head.
我自己的脸现在呈现出深深的热带灼烧感。我脑子里有一千个陈词滥调，连一个也想不出来。

‘It’s an old clock,’ I told them idiotically.
“这是一个旧钟，”我白痴地告诉他们。

I think we all believed for a moment that it had smashed in pieces on the floor.
我想我们都曾一度相信它在地板上摔成了碎片。

‘We haven’t met for many years,’ said Daisy, her voice as matter-of-fact as it could ever be.
“我们已经很多年没见面了，”黛西说道，她的声音尽可能的平淡。

‘Five years next November.’
“明年十一月就是五年了。”

The automatic quality of Gatsby’s answer set us all back at least another minute. I had them both on their feet with the desperate suggestion that they help me make tea in the kitchen when the demoniac Finn brought it in on a tray.
盖茨比的回答的机械性让我们大家至少又倒退了一分钟。当恶魔般的芬兰人用托盘把茶端进来时，我让他们俩都站了起来，绝望地建议他们帮我在厨房泡茶。

Amid the welcome confusion of cups and cakes a certain physical decency established itself. Gatsby got himself into a shadow and while Daisy and I talked looked conscientiously from one to the other of us with tense unhappy eyes. However, as calmness wasn’t an end in itself I made an excuse at the first possible moment and got to my feet.
在杯子和蛋糕的混乱中，某种身体礼仪自然而然地建立起来。盖茨比躲进了阴影里，黛西和我谈话时，用紧张、不高兴的眼神认真地看着我们中的一个人又看看另一个人。然而，平静本身并不是目的，我在第一时间找了个借口站了起来。

‘Where are you going?’ demanded Gatsby in immediate alarm.
“你要去哪里？”盖茨比立即惊慌地问道。

‘I’ll be back.’
'我会回来的。'

‘I’ve got to speak to you about something before you go.’
“你走之前我得和你谈谈一件事。”

He followed me wildly into the kitchen, closed the door and whispered: ‘Oh, God!’ in a miserable way.
他疯狂地跟着我走进厨房，关上门，用一种悲惨的方式低声说：“哦，上帝！”

‘What’s the matter?’
'怎么了？'

‘This is a terrible mistake,’ he said, shaking his head from side to side, ‘a terrible, terrible mistake.’
“这是一个可怕的错误，”他左右摇头说，“一个非常非常可怕的错误。”

‘You’re just embarrassed, that’s all,’ and luckily I added: ‘Daisy’s embarrassed too.’
“你只是感到尴尬，仅此而已，”幸运的是我补充道：“黛西也感到尴尬。”

‘She’s embarrassed?’ he repeated incredulously.
“她感到尴尬？”他难以置信地重复道。

‘Just as much as you are.’
“和你一样。”

‘Don’t talk so loud.’
“别说话那么大声。”

‘You’re acting like a little boy,’ I broke out impatiently. ‘Not only that but you’re rude. Daisy’s sitting in there all alone.’
“你表现得像个小男孩。”我不耐烦地说道。 ‘不仅如此，你还很粗鲁。黛西独自坐在那儿。

He raised his hand to stop my words, looked at me with unforgettable reproach and opening the door cautiously went back into the other room.
他举手制止了我的话，用令人难忘的责备看着我，然后小心翼翼地打开门回到了另一个房间。

I walked out the back way—just as Gatsby had when he had made his nervous circuit of the house half an hour before—and ran for a huge black knotted tree whose massed leaves made a fabric against the rain. Once more it was pouring and my irregular lawn, well-shaved by Gatsby’s gardener, abounded in small muddy swamps and prehistoric marshes. There was nothing to look at from under the tree except Gatsby’s enormous house, so I stared at it, like Kant at his church steeple, for half an hour. A brewer had built it early in the ‘period’ craze, a decade before, and there was a story that he’d agreed to pay five years’ taxes on all the neighboring cottages if the owners would have their roofs thatched with straw. Perhaps their refusal took the heart out of his plan to Found a Family—he went into an immediate decline. His children sold his house with the black wreath still on the door. Americans, while occasionally willing to be serfs, have always been obstinate about being peasantry.
我从后门走了出去——就像盖茨比半小时前紧张地在房子里绕了一圈时那样——跑向一棵巨大的黑色多节树，它聚集的叶子就像织物一样挡住了雨水。又下起了倾盆大雨，我那片不规则的草坪被盖茨比的园丁精心修剪过，到处都是小泥泞的沼泽和史前沼泽。从树下看去，除了盖茨比那座巨大的房子，没有什么可看的，所以我盯着它看了半个小时，就像康德盯着他的教堂尖塔一样。十年前，一位啤酒商在“时期”热潮的早期建造了它，有一个故事说，如果业主愿意用稻草覆盖屋顶，他同意为所有邻近的小屋缴纳五年的税。也许他们的拒绝让他失去了建立家庭的计划——他的身体立刻就衰弱了。他的孩子们卖掉了他的房子，门上还挂着黑色花环。美国人虽然偶尔愿意当农奴，但一直顽固地不愿成为农民。

After half an hour the sun shone again and the grocer’s automobile rounded Gatsby’s drive with the raw material for his servants’ dinner—I felt sure he wouldn’t eat a spoonful. A maid began opening the upper windows of his house, appeared momentarily in each, and, leaning from a large central bay, spat meditatively into the garden. It was time I went back. While the rain continued it had seemed like the murmur of their voices, rising and swelling a little, now and the, with gusts of emotion. But in the new silence I felt that silence had fallen within the house too.
半小时后，阳光再次普照，杂货店的汽车在盖茨比的车道上行驶，载着他仆人晚餐的原料——我确信他不会吃一勺。一名女仆开始打开他房子楼上的窗户，在每一扇窗户里出现一会儿，然后从一个大的中央海湾倾斜，若有所思地向花园里吐了口唾沫。我是时候回去了。雨继续下着，他们的声音似乎在低语，时不时地升高、膨胀，带着阵阵情感。但在新的寂静中，我感到屋子里也陷入了寂静。

I went in—after making every possible noise in the kitchen short of pushing over the stove—but I don’t believe they heard a sound. They were sitting at either end of the couch looking at each other as if some question had been asked or was in the air, and every vestige of embarrassment was gone. Daisy’s face was smeared with tears and when I came in she jumped up and began wiping at it with her handkerchief before a mirror. But there was a change in Gatsby that was simply confounding. He literally glowed; without a word or a gesture of exultation a new well-being radiated from him and filled the little room.
我进去了——在厨房里发出了所有可能的声音，除了推倒炉子——但我不相信他们听到任何声音。他们坐在沙发的两端，互相看着对方，好像有人问过什么问题，或者有什么问题悬而未决，所有的尴尬都消失了。黛西的脸上沾满了泪水，当我进来时，她跳了起来，开始在镜子前用手帕擦眼泪。但盖茨比的变化却令人困惑。他确实容光焕发；他没有说一句话，也没有做出任何欣喜的动作，一种新的幸福感从他身上散发出来，充满了这个小房间。

‘Oh, hello, old sport,’ he said, as if he hadn’t seen me for years. I thought for a moment he was going to shake hands.
“哦，你好，老伙计，”他说道，好像他已经好几年没见到我了。有一瞬间我以为他要握手。

‘It’s stopped raining.’
“雨停了。”

‘Has it?’ When he realized what I was talking about, that there were twinkle-bells of sunshine in the room, he smiled like a weather man, like an ecstatic patron of recurrent light, and repeated the news to Daisy. ‘What do you think of that? It’s stopped raining.’
“是吗？”当他意识到我在说什么，房间里有闪烁的阳光时，他像天气预报员一样微笑，像一个循环光的欣喜若狂的赞助人，并向黛西重复了这个消息。 '你对那个怎么想的？雨已经停了。

‘I’m glad, Jay.’ Her throat, full of aching, grieving beauty, told only of her unexpected joy.
“我很高兴，杰伊。”她的喉咙充满了疼痛、悲伤的美感，只诉说着她意想不到的喜悦。

‘I want you and Daisy to come over to my house,’ he said, ‘I’d like to show her around.’
“我想让你和黛西来我家，”他说，“我想带她参观一下。”

‘You’re sure you want me to come?’
“你确定要我来吗？”

‘Absolutely, old sport.’
“当然，老兄。”

Daisy went upstairs to wash her face—too late I thought with humiliation of my towels—while Gatsby and I waited on the lawn.
黛西上楼去洗脸——我觉得自己的毛巾很丢脸，但为时已晚——而盖茨比和我则在草坪上等着。

‘My house looks well, doesn’t it?’ he demanded. ‘See how the whole front of it catches the light.’
“我的房子看起来不错，不是吗？”他问道。 “看看它的整个正面是如何捕捉到光线的。”

I agreed that it was splendid.
我同意这真是太棒了。

‘Yes.’ His eyes went over it, every arched door and square tower. ‘It took me just three years to earn the money that bought it.’
“是的。”他的目光扫过每一扇拱门和方塔。 “我只花了三年时间就赚到了买它的钱。”

‘I thought you inherited your money.’
“我以为你继承了你的钱。”

‘I did, old sport,’ he said automatically, ‘but I lost most of it in the big panic—the panic of the war.’
“我做到了，老兄，”他不假思索地说，“但我在巨大的恐慌中失去了大部分——战争的恐慌。”

I think he hardly knew what he was saying, for when I asked him what business he was in he answered ‘That’s my affair,’ before he realized that it wasn’t the appropriate reply.
我想他几乎不知道自己在说什么，因为当我问他从事什么行业时，他回答说“那是我的事”，然后他意识到这不是合适的回答。

‘Oh, I’ve been in several things,’ he corrected himself. ‘I was in the drug business and then I was in the oil business. But I’m not in either one now.’ He looked at me with more attention. ‘Do you mean you’ve been thinking over what I proposed the other night?’
“哦，我做过几件事，”他纠正道。 “我从事过毒品生意，然后又从事过石油生意。但我现在不属于任何一种。”他更加专注地看着我。 “你的意思是你一直在思考我那天晚上提出的建议吗？”

Before I could answer, Daisy came out of the house and two rows of brass buttons on her dress gleamed in the sunlight.
我还没来得及回答，黛西就从屋里出来了，她衣服上的两排黄铜纽扣在阳光下闪闪发光。

‘That huge place THERE?’ she cried pointing.
“那儿有这么大的地方吗？”她指着那儿喊道。

‘Do you like it?’
'你喜欢它？'

‘I love it, but I don’t see how you live there all alone.’
“我喜欢它，但我不明白你怎么一个人住在那里。”

‘I keep it always full of interesting people, night and day. People who do interesting things. Celebrated people.’
“我让这里无论白天黑夜都挤满了有趣的人。做有趣事情的人。名人。”

Instead of taking the short cut along the Sound we went down the road and entered by the big postern. With enchanting murmurs Daisy admired this aspect or that of the feudal silhouette against the sky, admired the gardens, the sparkling odor of jonquils and the frothy odor of hawthorn and plum blossoms and the pale gold odor of kiss-me-at-the-gate. It was strange to reach the marble steps and find no stir of bright dresses in and out the door, and hear no sound but bird voices in the trees.
我们没有沿着海峡抄近路，而是沿着路，从大后门进入。黛西怀着迷人的呢喃，欣赏着天空映衬下的封建剪影的这一面或那一幕，欣赏着花园、黄水仙的闪闪发光的气味、山楂花和梅花的泡沫气味以及在门口吻我的淡金色气味。 。奇怪的是，走到大理石台阶上，门外没有任何鲜艳衣服的动静，除了树上的鸟叫声之外，什么声音也听不到。

And inside as we wandered through Marie Antoinette music rooms and Restoration salons I felt that there were guests concealed behind every couch and table, under orders to be breathlessly silent until we had passed through. As Gatsby closed the door of ‘the Merton College Library’ I could have sworn I heard the owl-eyed man break into ghostly laughter.
当我们漫步穿过玛丽·安托瓦内特的音乐室和复辟时期的沙龙时，我感觉到每张沙发和桌子后面都藏着客人，他们被命令保持安静，直到我们通过为止。当盖茨比关上“默顿学院图书馆”的门时，我可以发誓我听到了那个猫头鹰眼的男人发出幽灵般的笑声。

We went upstairs, through period bedrooms swathed in rose and lavender silk and vivid with new flowers, through dressing rooms and poolrooms, and bathrooms with sunken baths—intruding into one chamber where a dishevelled man in pajamas was doing liver exercises on the floor. It was Mr. Klipspringer, the ‘boarder.’ I had seen him wandering hungrily about the beach that morning. Finally we came to Gatsby’s own apartment, a bedroom and a bath and an Adam study, where we sat down and drank a glass of some Chartreuse he took from a cupboard in the wall.
我们上楼，穿过铺满玫瑰和薰衣草丝绸、鲜艳夺目的新花的仿古卧室，穿过更衣室和台球室，以及带下沉式浴缸的浴室——闯入一间房间，里面有一个穿着睡衣的衣衫不整的男人正在地板上做肝脏练习。那是克利普斯普林格先生，“寄宿生”。那天早上我看到他在海滩上饥肠辘辘地闲逛。最后，我们来到了盖茨比自己的公寓，有一间卧室、一间浴室和一间亚当书房，我们坐下来喝了一杯他从墙上的橱柜里拿出来的查特勒酒。

He hadn’t once ceased looking at Daisy and I think he revalued everything in his house according to the measure of response it drew from her well-loved eyes. Sometimes, too, he stared around at his possessions in a dazed way as though in her actual and astounding presence none of it was any longer real. Once he nearly toppled down a flight of stairs.
他一直没有停止注视黛西，我想他根据黛西深爱的眼睛所引起的反应来重新评估家里的一切。有时，他也会茫然地环顾四周，看着自己的财产，仿佛在她真实而令人震惊的存在下，一切都不再真实了。有一次他差点从楼梯上摔下来。

His bedroom was the simplest room of all—except where the dresser was garnished with a toilet set of pure dull gold. Daisy took the brush with delight and smoothed her hair, whereupon Gatsby sat down and shaded his eyes and began to laugh.
他的卧室是所有房间中最简单的——除了梳妆台上装饰着纯金色的马桶套件。黛西高兴地拿起刷子，抚平头发，盖茨比坐下来，遮住眼睛，开始大笑。

‘It’s the funniest thing, old sport,’ he said hilariously. ‘I can’t—when I try to——‘
“这是最有趣的事情，老伙计，”他滑稽地说。 “我不能——当我试图——”

He had passed visibly through two states and was entering upon a third. After his embarrassment and his unreasoning joy he was consumed with wonder at her presence. He had been full of the idea so long, dreamed it right through to the end, waited with his teeth set, so to speak, at an inconceivable pitch of intensity. Now, in the reaction, he was running down like an overwound clock.
他显然已经经历了两种状态，正在进入第三种状态。在经历了尴尬和莫名的喜悦之后，他对她的出现感到惊讶不已。他长期以来一直充满这个想法，一直梦想到最后，可以说，他咬牙切齿地等待着。现在，他的反应是像一只上发条的时钟一样往下跑。

Recovering himself in a minute he opened for us two hulking patent cabinets which held his massed suits and dressing-gowns and ties, and his shirts, piled like bricks in stacks a dozen high.
他很快就恢复了过来，为我们打开了两个巨大的专利柜，里面装满了他的西装、晨衣和领带，还有他的衬衫，像砖头一样堆成十几叠高。

‘I’ve got a man in England who buys me clothes. He sends over a selection of things at the beginning of each season, spring and fall.’
“我在英国有一个男人给我买衣服。他在每个季节（春季和秋季）开始时都会发送一些精选的东西。

He took out a pile of shirts and began throwing them, one by one before us, shirts of sheer linen and thick silk and fine flannel which lost their folds as they fell and covered the table in many-colored disarray. While we admired he brought more and the soft rich heap mounted higher—shirts with stripes and scrolls and plaids in coral and apple-green and lavender and faint orange with monograms of Indian blue. Suddenly with a strained sound, Daisy bent her head into the shirts and began to cry stormily.
他拿出一堆衬衫，开始把它们一件一件地扔到我们面前，这些衬衫是由纯亚麻布、厚丝绸和细法兰绒制成的，它们在掉落时失去了褶皱，杂乱地覆盖了桌子。在我们钦佩的同时，他带来了更多，柔软而丰富的衣服堆得更高——珊瑚色、苹果绿、薰衣草色和淡橙色的条纹、卷轴和格子衬衫，上面印有印度蓝色的花押字。突然，黛西发出一声紧张的声音，把头埋进衬衫里，开始嚎啕大哭。

‘They’re such beautiful shirts,’ she sobbed, her voice muffled in the thick folds. ‘It makes me sad because I’ve never seen such—such beautiful shirts before.’
“它们真是漂亮的衬衫，”她抽泣着，声音被厚厚的褶皱压住了。 “这让我很难过，因为我以前从未见过如此美丽的衬衫。”

After the house, we were to see the grounds and the swimming pool, and the hydroplane and the midsummer flowers—but outside Gatsby’s window it began to rain again so we stood in a row looking at the corrugated surface of the Sound.
离开房子后，我们要参观庭院、游泳池、水上飞机和盛夏的花朵——但盖茨比的窗外又开始下雨了，所以我们站成一排，看着海湾的波纹状表面。

‘If it wasn’t for the mist we could see your home across the bay,’ said Gatsby. ‘You always have a green light that burns all night at the end of your dock.’
“如果没有雾气，我们可以看到海湾对面你的家，”盖茨比说。 “码头的尽头总是有一盏绿灯整夜亮着。”

Daisy put her arm through his abruptly but he seemed absorbed in what he had just said. Possibly it had occurred to him that the colossal significance of that light had now vanished forever. Compared to the great distance that had separated him from Daisy it had seemed very near to her, almost touching her. It had seemed as close as a star to the moon. Now it was again a green light on a dock. His count of enchanted objects had diminished by one.
黛西突然挽住他的手臂，但他似乎全神贯注于他刚才说的话。也许他突然意识到那道光的巨大意义现在已经永远消失了。与他和黛西之间的遥远距离相比，它似乎离她很近，几乎触碰到了她。它看起来就像星星离月亮一样近。现在，码头又亮起了绿灯。他的魔法物品数量减少了一件。

I began to walk about the room, examining various indefinite objects in the half darkness. A large photograph of an elderly man in yachting costume attracted me, hung on the wall over his desk.
我开始在房间里走来走去，在半明半暗的环境中检查各种不确定的物体。办公桌上方的墙上挂着一张身穿游艇服装的老人的大幅照片，吸引了我。

‘Who’s this?’
'这是谁？'

‘That? That’s Mr. Dan Cody, old sport.’
'那？那是丹·科迪先生，老兄。

The name sounded faintly familiar.
这个名字听起来有些耳熟。

‘He’s dead now. He used to be my best friend years ago.’
‘他现在死了。多年前他曾经是我最好的朋友。

There was a small picture of Gatsby, also in yachting costume, on the bureau—Gatsby with his head thrown back defiantly—taken apparently when he was about eighteen.
梳妆台上有一张盖茨比的小照片，同样穿着游艇服装——盖茨比挑衅地向后仰着头——显然是在他十八岁时拍摄的。

‘I adore it!’ exclaimed Daisy. ‘The pompadour! You never told me you had a pompadour—or a yacht.’
“我喜欢它！”黛西惊呼道。 ‘蓬巴杜！你从来没有告诉过我你有一个蓬巴杜发型——或者一艘游艇。

‘Look at this,’ said Gatsby quickly. ‘Here’s a lot of clippings—about you.’
“看看这个，”盖茨比很快说道。 “这里有很多关于你的剪报。”

They stood side by side examining it. I was going to ask to see the rubies when the phone rang and Gatsby took up the receiver.
他们并排站着检查它。我正想要求看看红宝石，这时电话响了，盖茨比拿起听筒。

‘Yes…. Well, I can’t talk now…. I can’t talk now, old sport…. I said a SMALL town…. He must know what a small town is…. Well, he’s no use to us if Detroit is his idea of a small town….’
'是的…。好吧，我现在不能说话……我现在不能说话，老兄……我说的是一个小镇……他一定知道什么是小镇……好吧，如果底特律是他心目中的小镇，他对我们就没用了……”

He rang off.
他挂断了电话。

‘Come here QUICK!’ cried Daisy at the window.
“快过来！”黛西在窗边喊道。

The rain was still falling, but the darkness had parted in the west, and there was a pink and golden billow of foamy clouds above the sea.
雨还在下，但西方的黑暗已经分开，海面上有一朵粉红色和金色的泡沫云。

‘Look at that,’ she whispered, and then after a moment: ‘I’d like to just get one of those pink clouds and put you in it and push you around.’
“看那个，”她低声说道，过了一会儿，“我想拿一朵粉红色的云，把你放进去，然后推着你走。”

I tried to go then, but they wouldn’t hear of it; perhaps my presence made them feel more satisfactorily alone.
我当时试图去，但他们不听。也许我的存在让他们感到更满足的孤独感。

‘I know what we’ll do,’ said Gatsby, ‘we’ll have Klipspringer play the piano.’
“我知道我们要做什么，”盖茨比说，“我们会让克利普斯普林格弹钢琴。”

He went out of the room calling ‘Ewing!’ and returned in a few minutes accompanied by an embarrassed, slightly worn young man with shell-rimmed glasses and scanty blonde hair. He was now decently clothed in a ‘sport shirt’ open at the neck, sneakers and duck trousers of a nebulous hue.
他一边喊着“尤因！”一边走出房间，几分钟后就回来了，身边还跟着一个尴尬、略显疲惫的年轻人，他戴着贝壳框眼镜，金发稀疏。他现在穿着一件领口敞开的“运动衫”，脚上穿着运动鞋和颜色模糊的鸭舌裤。

‘Did we interrupt your exercises?’ inquired Daisy politely.
“我们打扰了你的练习吗？”黛西礼貌地问道。

‘I was asleep,’ cried Mr. Klipspringer, in a spasm of embarrassment. ‘That is, I’d BEEN asleep. Then I got up….’
“我睡着了，”克里普斯普林格先生尴尬地抽搐着喊道。 “也就是说，我已经睡着了。然后我就起身了……”

‘Klipspringer plays the piano,’ said Gatsby, cutting him off. ‘Don’t you, Ewing, old sport?’
“克利普斯普林格会弹钢琴，”盖茨比打断了他的话。 “你不是吗，尤因，老伙计？”

‘I don’t play well. I don’t—I hardly play at all. I’m all out of prac——‘
‘我打得不好。我不——我几乎不玩。我完全没有练习了——’

‘We’ll go downstairs,’ interrupted Gatsby. He flipped a switch. The grey windows disappeared as the house glowed full of light.
“我们下楼去。”盖茨比打断道。他按下了开关。当房子充满光线时，灰色的窗户消失了。

In the music room Gatsby turned on a solitary lamp beside the piano. He lit Daisy’s cigarette from a trembling match, and sat down with her on a couch far across the room where there was no light save what the gleaming floor bounced in from the hall.
在音乐室里，盖茨比打开了钢琴旁边的一盏孤灯。他用一根颤抖的火柴点燃了黛西的香烟，然后和她一起坐在房间另一边的沙发上，除了从大厅反射进来的闪闪发光的地板之外，没有任何光线。

When Klipspringer had played ‘The Love Nest’ he turned around on the bench and searched unhappily for Gatsby in the gloom.
当克利普斯普林格演奏完《爱巢》后，他在长凳上转过身来，不高兴地在黑暗中寻找盖茨比。

‘I’m all out of practice, you see. I told you I couldn’t play. I’m all out of prac——‘
“你看，我已经完全没有练习了。我告诉过你我不能玩。我完全没有练习了——’

‘Don’t talk so much, old sport,’ commanded Gatsby. ‘Play!’
“别说那么多了，老兄，”盖茨比命令道。 '玩！'

IN THE MORNING,
在早晨，

IN THE EVENING,
晚上，

AIN’T WE GOT FUN——
我们玩得开心吗——

Outside the wind was loud and there was a faint flow of thunder along the Sound. All the lights were going on in West Egg now; the electric trains, men-carrying, were plunging home through the rain from New York. It was the hour of a profound human change, and excitement was generating on the air.
外面风很大，海峡沿岸隐约传来雷声。现在西埃格所有的灯都亮了；载着乘客的电动火车冒着大雨从纽约驶回家乡。这是人类发生深刻变化的时刻，空气中弥漫着兴奋的气氛。

ONE THING’S SURE AND NOTHING’S SURER
一件事是确定的，没有什么是确定的

THE RICH GET RICHER AND THE POOR GET—CHILDREN.
富人变得更富，穷人得到孩子。

IN THE MEANTIME,
同时，

IN BETWEEN TIME——
时间之间——

As I went over to say goodbye I saw that the expression of bewilderment had come back into Gatsby’s face, as though a faint doubt had occurred to him as to the quality of his present happiness. Almost five years! There must have been moments even that afternoon when Daisy tumbled short of his dreams—not through her own fault but because of the colossal vitality of his illusion. It had gone beyond her, beyond everything. He had thrown himself into it with a creative passion, adding to it all the time, decking it out with every bright feather that drifted his way. No amount of fire or freshness can challenge what a man will store up in his ghostly heart.
当我走过去告别时，我发现盖茨比的脸上又出现了困惑的表情，仿佛他对自己目前的幸福感产生了一丝怀疑。快五年了！就连那天下午，黛西肯定也曾在某些时刻未能实现他的梦想——不是因为她自己的错，而是因为他幻想的巨大活力。它已经超越了她，超越了一切。他以一种创造性的热情全身心投入其中，不断地添加它，用他飘过的每一根明亮的羽毛装饰它。再多的火焰和新鲜感都无法挑战一个人在他幽灵般的心中所储存的东西。

As I watched him he adjusted himself a little, visibly. His hand took hold of hers and as she said something low in his ear he turned toward her with a rush of emotion. I think that voice held him most with its fluctuating, feverish warmth because it couldn’t be over-dreamed—that voice was a deathless song.
当我看着他时，他明显地调整了自己。他握住她的手，当她在他耳边低声说了些什么时，他激动地转向她。我认为那个声音以其波动的、狂热的温暖最吸引他，因为它是不可能过度梦想的——那个声音是一首不朽的歌。

They had forgotten me, but Daisy glanced up and held out her hand; Gatsby didn’t know me now at all. I looked once more at them and they looked back at me, remotely, possessed by intense life. Then I went out of the room and down the marble steps into the rain, leaving them there together.
他们已经忘记了我，但黛西抬起头，伸出了手。盖茨比现在根本不认识我了。我再次看着他们，他们也回望着我，目光遥远，充满了强烈的生命力。然后我走出房间，走下大理石台阶，走进雨中，把他们留在那里。

Chapter 6
第6章

About this time an ambitious young reporter from New York arrived one morning at Gatsby’s door and asked him if he had anything to say.
大约在这个时候，一天早上，一位来自纽约的雄心勃勃的年轻记者来到盖茨比家门口，问他是否有什么话要说。

‘Anything to say about what?’ inquired Gatsby politely.
“有什么要说的吗？”盖茨比礼貌地问道。

‘Why,—any statement to give out.’
“为什么——有什么要发表的声明吗？”

It transpired after a confused five minutes that the man had heard Gatsby’s name around his office in a connection which he either wouldn’t reveal or didn’t fully understand. This was his day off and with laudable initiative he had hurried out ‘to see.’
在混乱的五分钟后，这名男子在他的办公室里听到了盖茨比的名字，但他要么不肯透露，要么不完全理解。今天是他的休息日，他带着值得称赞的主动性匆忙出去“看看”。

It was a random shot, and yet the reporter’s instinct was right. Gatsby’s notoriety, spread about by the hundreds who had accepted his hospitality and so become authorities on his past, had increased all summer until he fell just short of being news. Contemporary legends such as the ‘underground pipe-line to Canada’ attached themselves to him, and there was one persistent story that he didn’t live in a house at all, but in a boat that looked like a house and was moved secretly up and down the Long Island shore. Just why these inventions were a source of satisfaction to James Gatz of North Dakota, isn’t easy to say.
虽然是随手拍的，但记者的直觉是对的。盖茨比的名声在整个夏天都在增加，直到他差点成为新闻人物为止，数百名接受过他的款待并因此成为他过去的权威的人传播开来。诸如“通往加拿大的地下管道”等当代传说都与他息息相关，还有一个流传甚广的故事，即他根本不住在房子里，而是住在一艘看起来像房子的船上，被偷偷搬到了船上。并沿着长岛海岸行驶。很难说清楚为什么这些发明让北达科他州的詹姆斯·盖茨感到满意。

James Gatz—that was really, or at least legally, his name. He had changed it at the age of seventeen and at the specific moment that witnessed the beginning of his career—when he saw Dan Cody’s yacht drop anchor over the most insidious flat on Lake Superior. It was James Gatz who had been loafing along the beach that afternoon in a torn green jersey and a pair of canvas pants, but it was already Jay Gatsby who borrowed a row-boat, pulled out to the TUOLOMEE and informed Cody that a wind might catch him and break him up in half an hour.
詹姆斯·盖茨——这确实是他的名字，或者至少在法律上是他的名字。他在十七岁时改变了这一点，也是在见证他职业生涯开始的特定时刻——当他看到丹·科迪的游艇在苏必利尔湖最阴险的平地上抛锚时。那天下午，詹姆斯·盖茨穿着一件破烂的绿色运动衫和一条帆布裤，在海滩上闲逛，但杰伊·盖茨比已经借了一艘划艇，把船开到了图奥洛米号，并告诉科迪，可能会刮风。半个小时之内抓住他并把他打散。

I suppose he’d had the name ready for a long time, even then. His parents were shiftless and unsuccessful farm people—his imagination had never really accepted them as his parents at all. The truth was that Jay Gatsby, of West Egg, Long Island, sprang from his Platonic conception of himself. He was a son of God—a phrase which, if it means anything, means just that—and he must be about His Father’s Business, the service of a vast, vulgar and meretricious beauty. So he invented just the sort of Jay Gatsby that a seventeen-year-old boy would be likely to invent, and to this conception he was faithful to the end.
我想即使在那时，他也已经准备好了这个名字很长时间了。他的父母都是无能、不成功的农民——他的想象从来没有真正接受过他们是他的父母。事实上，来自长岛西埃格的杰伊·盖茨比源于他柏拉图式的自我概念。他是上帝的儿子——这句话，如果有什么意义的话，就是这个意思——他一定会关心天父的事业，为一位巨大、粗俗而华而不实的美人服务。因此，他创造了一个十七岁男孩可能会创造的杰·盖茨比，并且他始终忠于这个概念。

For over a year he had been beating his way along the south shore of Lake Superior as a clam digger and a salmon fisher or in any other capacity that brought him food and bed. His brown, hardening body lived naturally through the half fierce, half lazy work of the bracing days. He knew women early and since they spoiled him he became contemptuous of them, of young virgins because they were ignorant, of the others because they were hysterical about things which in his overwhelming self-absorption he took for granted.
一年多来，他一直沿着苏必利尔湖南岸打拼，担任挖蛤者和鲑鱼捕捞者，或者从事其他为他带来食物和床铺的工作。他褐色、坚硬的身体自然地度过了那些令人振奋的日子里一半激烈、一半懒惰的工作。他很早就认识女人，自从她们宠坏了他之后，他就开始蔑视她们，蔑视年轻的处女，因为她们无知，蔑视其他人，因为她们对他认为理所当然的事情歇斯底里。

But his heart was in a constant, turbulent riot. The most grotesque and fantastic conceits haunted him in his bed at night. A universe of ineffable gaudiness spun itself out in his brain while the clock ticked on the wash-stand and the moon soaked with wet light his tangled clothes upon the floor. Each night he added to the pattern of his fancies until drowsiness closed down upon some vivid scene with an oblivious embrace. For a while these reveries provided an outlet for his imagination; they were a satisfactory hint of the unreality of reality, a promise that the rock of the world was founded securely on a fairy’s wing.
但他的内心却一直在汹涌澎湃。晚上，最怪异、最荒唐的想法在他的床上萦绕不去。盥洗台上的时钟滴答作响，月亮用湿漉漉的光芒浸湿了地板上缠结的衣服，此时他的脑海中浮现出一个难以言喻的华丽世界。每天晚上，他都增加自己的幻想模式，直到睡意以一种不经意的拥抱关闭了一些生动的场景。有一段时间，这些遐想为他的想象力提供了一个出口。它们令人满意地暗示了现实的不真实性，承诺了世界的基石牢固地建立在仙女的翅膀上。

An instinct toward his future glory had led him, some months before, to the small Lutheran college of St. Olaf in southern Minnesota. He stayed there two weeks, dismayed at its ferocious indifference to the drums of his destiny, to destiny itself, and despising the janitor’s work with which he was to pay his way through. Then he drifted back to Lake Superior, and he was still searching for something to do on the day that Dan Cody’s yacht dropped anchor in the shallows along shore.
几个月前，出于对未来荣耀的本能，他来到了明尼苏达州南部的路德教会圣奥拉夫学院。他在那里呆了两个星期，对它对他命运的鼓声、对命运本身的冷漠感到沮丧，并鄙视他赖以生存的看门人的工作。然后他漂回苏必利尔湖，丹·科迪的游艇在岸边浅滩抛锚的那天，他仍在寻找事情可做。

Cody was fifty years old then, a product of the Nevada silver fields, of the Yukon, of every rush for metal since Seventy-five. The transactions in Montana copper that made him many times a millionaire found him physically robust but on the verge of soft-mindedness, and, suspecting this an infinite number of women tried to separate him from his money. The none too savory ramifications by which Ella Kaye, the newspaper woman, played Madame de Maintenon to his weakness and sent him to sea in a yacht, were common knowledge to the turgid journalism of 1902. He had been coasting along all too hospitable shores for five years when he turned up as James Gatz’s destiny at Little Girl Bay.
科迪当时五十岁了，是内华达银矿、育空地区以及自七十五岁以来每一次金属热潮的产物。蒙大拿州铜矿的交易使他多次成为百万富翁，但他身体强壮，但心智却处于软弱的边缘，并且怀疑这一点的无数妇女试图将他与他的钱分开。女报人艾拉·凯 (Ella Kaye) 扮演德·曼特农夫人 (Madame de Maintenon) 的弱点，并把他送上游艇出海，所造成的后果并不令人愉快，这对于 1902 年浮夸的新闻界来说是众所周知的。五年后，他在小女孩湾成为詹姆斯·盖茨的命运。

To the young Gatz, resting on his oars and looking up at the railed deck, the yacht represented all the beauty and glamor in the world. I suppose he smiled at Cody—he had probably discovered that people liked him when he smiled. At any rate Cody asked him a few questions (one of them elicited the brand new name) and found that he was quick, and extravagantly ambitious. A few days later he took him to Duluth and bought him a blue coat, six pair of white duck trousers and a yachting cap. And when the TUOLOMEE left for the West Indies and the Barbary Coast Gatsby left too.
对于年轻的盖茨来说，坐在桨上，抬头看着有栏杆的甲板，这艘游艇代表了世界上所有的美丽和魅力。我想他对科迪微笑——他可能发现当他微笑时人们喜欢他。无论如何，科迪问了他几个问题（其中一个引出了全新的名字），发现他动作敏捷，而且雄心勃勃。几天后，他带他去了德卢斯，给他买了一件蓝色外套、六条白色鸭绒裤和一顶游艇帽。当TUOLOMEE 前往西印度群岛和巴巴里海岸时，盖茨比也离开了。

He was employed in a vague personal capacity—while he remained with Cody he was in turn steward, mate, skipper, secretary, and even jailor, for Dan Cody sober knew what lavish doings Dan Cody drunk might soon be about and he provided for such contingencies by reposing more and more trust in Gatsby. The arrangement lasted five years during which the boat went three times around the continent. It might have lasted indefinitely except for the fact that Ella Kaye came on board one night in Boston and a week later Dan Cody inhospitably died.
他以模糊的个人身份受雇——当他留在科迪身边时，他依次担任乘务员、大副、船长、秘书，甚至狱卒，因为丹·科迪清醒地知道丹·科迪喝醉后可能很快就会做出什么奢侈的事情，他提供了这样的服务。通过对盖茨比越来越信任来应对突发事件。这种安排持续了五年，期间这艘船绕非洲大陆三圈。这种情况可能会无限期地持续下去，除非埃拉·凯伊在波士顿的一个晚上登上了这艘船，一周后丹·科迪不幸去世。

I remember the portrait of him up in Gatsby’s bedroom, a grey, florid man with a hard empty face—the pioneer debauchee who during one phase of American life brought back to the eastern seaboard the savage violence of the frontier brothel and saloon. It was indirectly due to Cody that Gatsby drank so little. Sometimes in the course of gay parties women used to rub champagne into his hair; for himself he formed the habit of letting liquor alone.
我记得盖茨比卧室里的他的肖像，一个灰色的、红润的男人，一张冷酷而空洞的脸——这位放荡的先锋，在美国生活的某个阶段，他把边境妓院和酒吧的野蛮暴力带回了东海岸。盖茨比喝得这么少，间接也是科迪的功劳。有时，在同性恋聚会上，女人们会用香槟擦他的头发。他自己也养成了不喝酒的习惯。

And it was from Cody that he inherited money—a legacy of twenty-five thousand dollars. He didn’t get it. He never understood the legal device that was used against him but what remained of the millions went intact to Ella Kaye. He was left with his singularly appropriate education; the vague contour of Jay Gatsby had filled out to the substantiality of a man.
他从科迪那里继承了金钱——两万五千美元的遗​​产。他不明白。他从来不理解针对他使用的法律手段，但剩下的数百万美元却完好无损地落到了艾拉·凯的手里。他只接受了非常适当的教育。杰·盖茨比的模糊轮廓已经充实到了一个男人的实质。

He told me all this very much later, but I’ve put it down here with the idea of exploding those first wild rumors about his antecedents, which weren’t even faintly true. Moreover he told it to me at a time of confusion, when I had reached the point of believing everything and nothing about him. So I take advantage of this short halt, while Gatsby, so to speak, caught his breath, to clear this set of misconceptions away.
很久以后他才告诉我这一切，但我把它写在这里，是为了推翻那些关于他的前身的最初的疯狂谣言，这些谣言甚至都不是真实的。而且，他是在我很困惑的时候告诉我这件事的，当时我已经到了对他的一切都相信又不相信的地步。所以我利用这个短暂的停顿，而盖茨比，可以说，喘了口气，澄清了这一系列误解。

It was a halt, too, in my association with his affairs. For several weeks I didn’t see him or hear his voice on the phone—mostly I was in New York, trotting around with Jordan and trying to ingratiate myself with her senile aunt—but finally I went over to his house one Sunday afternoon. I hadn’t been there two minutes when somebody brought Tom Buchanan in for a drink. I was startled, naturally, but the really surprising thing was that it hadn’t happened before.
我也停止了与他的事务的联系。有几个星期我没有见到他，也没有在电话里听到他的声音——大部分时间我都在纽约，和乔丹一起闲逛，试图讨好她年迈的阿姨——但最后一个周日下午我去了他家。我到那里还不到两分钟，就有人带汤姆·布坎南进来喝一杯。我自然感到震惊，但真正令人惊讶的是，这种情况以前从未发生过。

They were a party of three on horseback—Tom and a man named Sloane and a pretty woman in a brown riding habit who had been there previously.
他们一行三人骑在马背上——汤姆、一个名叫斯隆的男人和一个以前来过那里、穿着棕色骑马服的漂亮女人。

‘I’m delighted to see you,’ said Gatsby standing on his porch. ‘I’m delighted that you dropped in.’
“我很高兴见到你，”盖茨比站在门廊上说道。 “我很高兴你能过来。”

As though they cared!
好像他们很关心一样！

‘Sit right down. Have a cigarette or a cigar.’ He walked around the room quickly, ringing bells. ‘I’ll have something to drink for you in just a minute.’
‘快坐下吧。抽支烟或雪茄吧。”他快速地在房间里走来走去，按响门铃。 “我一会儿就给你喝点东西。”

He was profoundly affected by the fact that Tom was there. But he would be uneasy anyhow until he had given them something, realizing in a vague way that that was all they came for. Mr. Sloane wanted nothing. A lemonade? No, thanks. A little champagne? Nothing at all, thanks…. I’m sorry——
汤姆在那里的事实深深地影响了他。但无论如何，在他给他们一些东西之前，他都会感到不安，并模糊地意识到这就是他们来这里的全部目的。斯隆先生什么都不想要。柠檬水？不，谢谢。一点香槟？没什么，谢谢……对不起 -

‘Did you have a nice ride?’
“旅途愉快吗？”

‘Very good roads around here.’
“这里的路况非常好。”

‘I suppose the automobiles——‘
“我想汽车——”

‘Yeah.’
'是的。'

Moved by an irresistible impulse, Gatsby turned to Tom who had accepted the introduction as a stranger.
盖茨比被一种不可抗拒的冲动所感动，转向以陌生人的身份接受介绍的汤姆。

‘I believe we’ve met somewhere before, Mr. Buchanan.’
“我相信我们以前在某个地方见过面，布坎南先生。”

‘Oh, yes,’ said Tom, gruffly polite but obviously not remembering. ‘So we did. I remember very well.’
“哦，是的，”汤姆粗声粗气地礼貌地说，但显然不记得了。 ‘所以我们做到了。我记得很清楚。

‘About two weeks ago.’
“大约两周前。”

‘That’s right. You were with Nick here.’
'这是正确的。你和尼克在一起。

‘I know your wife,’ continued Gatsby, almost aggressively.
“我认识你的妻子，”盖茨比几乎咄咄逼人地继续说道。

‘That so?’
'这么？'

Tom turned to me.
汤姆转向我。

‘You live near here, Nick?’
“尼克，你住附近吗？”

‘Next door.’
'隔壁。'

‘That so?’
'这么？'

Mr. Sloane didn’t enter into the conversation but lounged back haughtily in his chair; the woman said nothing either—until unexpectedly, after two highballs, she became cordial.
斯隆先生没有加入谈话，只是傲慢地靠在椅子上。女人也没有说话，直到喝了两杯威士忌后，她突然变得热情起来。

‘We’ll all come over to your next party, Mr. Gatsby,’ she suggested. ‘What do you say?’
“我们都会来参加你的下一场聚会，盖茨比先生，”她建议道。 '你怎么说？'

‘Certainly. I’d be delighted to have you.’
'当然。我很高兴有你。

‘Be ver’ nice,’ said Mr. Sloane, without gratitude. ‘Well—think ought to be starting home.’
“要非常友善，”斯隆先生毫无感激地说。 “嗯——我想应该开始回家了。”

‘Please don’t hurry,’ Gatsby urged them. He had control of himself now and he wanted to see more of Tom. ‘Why don’t you—why don’t you stay for supper? I wouldn’t be surprised if some other people dropped in from New York.’
“请别着急，”盖茨比催促他们。他现在可以控制自己了，他想多看看汤姆。 “你为什么不——为什么不留下来吃晚饭呢？”如果其他人从纽约过来，我不会感到惊讶。

‘You come to supper with ME,’ said the lady enthusiastically. ‘Both of you.’
“你来和我一起吃晚饭吧，”那位女士热情地说。 '你们俩。'

This included me. Mr. Sloane got to his feet.
这其中也包括我。斯隆先生站了起来。

‘Come along,’ he said—but to her only.
“来吧，”他说——但只对她说。

‘I mean it,’ she insisted. ‘I’d love to have you. Lots of room.’
“我是认真的，”她坚持道。 ‘我很想拥有你。有很多空间。

Gatsby looked at me questioningly. He wanted to go and he didn’t see that Mr. Sloane had determined he shouldn’t.
盖茨比疑惑地看着我。他想去，但没有看到斯隆先生决定他不去。

‘I’m afraid I won’t be able to,’ I said.
“恐怕我做不到，”我说。

‘Well, you come,’ she urged, concentrating on Gatsby.
“好吧，你来吧，”她催促道，注意力集中在盖茨比身上。

Mr. Sloane murmured something close to her ear.
斯隆先生在她耳边低声说了些什么。

‘We won’t be late if we start now,’ she insisted aloud.
“如果我们现在开始就不会迟到，”她大声坚持道。

‘I haven’t got a horse,’ said Gatsby. ‘I used to ride in the army but I’ve never bought a horse. I’ll have to follow you in my car. Excuse me for just a minute.’
盖茨比说：“我没有马。” “我曾经在军队里骑马，但从未买过马。我得开车跟着你。请原谅我一分钟。

The rest of us walked out on the porch, where Sloane and the lady began an impassioned conversation aside.
我们其他人走到门廊上，斯隆和那位女士在一旁开始了热烈的交谈。

‘My God, I believe the man’s coming,’ said Tom. ‘Doesn’t he know she doesn’t want him?’
“天哪，我相信那个人会来，”汤姆说。 “他难道不知道她不想要他吗？”

‘She says she does want him.’
“她说她确实想要他。”

‘She has a big dinner party and he won’t know a soul there.’ He frowned. ‘I wonder where in the devil he met Daisy. By God, I may be old-fashioned in my ideas, but women run around too much these days to suit me. They meet all kinds of crazy fish.’
“她要举办一场盛大的晚宴，而他在那里一个人都不认识。”他皱起眉头。 “我不知道他究竟在哪里遇见了黛西。老天爷啊，我的想法可能有些老套，但现在女人太多了，不适合我。他们遇到了各种疯狂的鱼。

Suddenly Mr. Sloane and the lady walked down the steps and mounted their horses.
突然，斯隆先生和那位女士走下台阶，骑上马。

‘Come on,’ said Mr. Sloane to Tom, ‘we’re late. We’ve got to go.’ And then to me: ‘Tell him we couldn’t wait, will you?’
“快点，”斯隆先生对汤姆说，“我们迟到了。”我们得走了。”然后对我说：“告诉他我们等不及了，好吗？”

Tom and I shook hands, the rest of us exchanged a cool nod and they trotted quickly down the drive, disappearing under the August foliage just as Gatsby with hat and light overcoat in hand came out the front door.
汤姆和我握了握手，我们其他人冷静地点了点头，然后他们快步沿着车道小跑，消失在八月的树叶下，这时盖茨比戴着帽子，手里拿着轻便大衣，从前门走了出来。

Tom was evidently perturbed at Daisy’s running around alone, for on the following Saturday night he came with her to Gatsby’s party. Perhaps his presence gave the evening its peculiar quality of oppressiveness—it stands out in my memory from Gatsby’s other parties that summer. There were the same people, or at least the same sort of people, the same profusion of champagne, the same many-colored, many-keyed commotion, but I felt an unpleasantness in the air, a pervading harshness that hadn’t been there before. Or perhaps I had merely grown used to it, grown to accept West Egg as a world complete in itself, with its own standards and its own great figures, second to nothing because it had no consciousness of being so, and now I was looking at it again, through Daisy’s eyes. It is invariably saddening to look through new eyes at things upon which you have expended your own powers of adjustment.
汤姆显然对黛西独自到处乱跑感到不安，因为在接下来的星期六晚上，他和她一起参加了盖茨比的聚会。也许他的出现给这个夜晚带来了一种独特的压抑感——在我的记忆中，它与盖茨比那年夏天的其他聚会相比显得格外突出。还是同样的人，或者至少是同一类人，同样丰盛的香槟，同样五彩斑斓、多调的骚动，但我感觉到空气中弥漫着一种不愉快的感觉，一种从未有过的粗暴感弥漫在其中。前。或者也许我只是已经习惯了，逐渐接受了西埃格作为一个本身完整的世界，有自己的标准和自己的伟大人物，首屈一指，因为它没有意识到如此，而现在我正在看再次通过黛西的眼睛。当你用新的眼光看待那些你已经耗尽了自己的调整能力的事物时，总是会感到悲伤。

They arrived at twilight and as we strolled out among the sparkling hundreds Daisy’s voice was playing murmurous tricks in her throat.
他们在黄昏时分到达，当我们在闪闪发光的数百人中漫步时，黛西的声音在她的喉咙里低语着。

‘These things excite me SO,’ she whispered. ‘If you want to kiss me any time during the evening, Nick, just let me know and I’ll be glad to arrange it for you. Just mention my name. Or present a green card. I’m giving out green——‘
“这些事情让我非常兴奋，”她低声说道。 “如果你晚上想吻我，尼克，请告诉我，我很乐意为你安排。只要提到我的名字就可以了。或者出示绿卡。我发出绿色——’

‘Look around,’ suggested Gatsby.
“看看周围，”盖茨比建议道。

‘I’m looking around. I’m having a marvelous——‘
‘我在环顾四周。我有一个奇妙的——”

‘You must see the faces of many people you’ve heard about.’
“你一定看到了很多你听说过的人的面孔。”

Tom’s arrogant eyes roamed the crowd.
汤姆傲慢的目光在人群中扫视。

‘We don’t go around very much,’ he said. ‘In fact I was just thinking I don’t know a soul here.’
“我们不常到处走动，”他说。 “事实上，我只是想这里我一个人都不认识。”

‘Perhaps you know that lady.’ Gatsby indicated a gorgeous, scarcely human orchid of a woman who sat in state under a white plum tree. Tom and Daisy stared, with that peculiarly unreal feeling that accompanies the recognition of a hitherto ghostly celebrity of the movies.
“也许你认识那位女士。”盖茨比指着一朵华丽的、几乎不像人的兰花的女人，她端坐在一棵白梅树下。汤姆和黛西凝视着，带着一种特别不真实的感觉，伴随着认出一位迄今为止幽灵般的电影名人。

‘She’s lovely,’ said Daisy.
“她很可爱，”黛西说。

‘The man bending over her is her director.’
“俯身在她身上的男人是她的导演。”

He took them ceremoniously from group to group:
他隆重地带领他们从一组到另一组：

‘Mrs. Buchanan … and Mr. Buchanan——’ After an instant’s hesitation he added: ‘the polo player.’
'太太。布坎南……还有布坎南先生——”犹豫片刻后，他补充道：“马球运动员。”

‘Oh no,’ objected Tom quickly, ‘Not me.’
“哦，不，”汤姆很快反对道，“我不是。”

But evidently the sound of it pleased Gatsby for Tom remained ‘the polo player’ for the rest of the evening.
但显然，这声音让盖茨比很高兴，因为汤姆在整个晚上都保持着“马球运动员”的状态。

‘I’ve never met so many celebrities!’ Daisy exclaimed. ‘I liked that man—what was his name?—with the sort of blue nose.’
“我从来没有见过这么多名人！”黛西惊呼道。 “我喜欢那个男人——他叫什么名字？——有那种蓝色的鼻子。”

Gatsby identified him, adding that he was a small producer.
盖茨比认出了他，并补充说他是一名小制片人。

‘Well, I liked him anyhow.’
“好吧，无论如何我喜欢他。”

‘I’d a little rather not be the polo player,’ said Tom pleasantly, ‘I’d rather look at all these famous people in—in oblivion.’
“我有点不愿意成为马球运动员，”汤姆愉快地说，“我宁愿看着所有这些名人都被遗忘。”

Daisy and Gatsby danced. I remember being surprised by his graceful, conservative fox-trot—I had never seen him dance before. Then they sauntered over to my house and sat on the steps for half an hour while at her request I remained watchfully in the garden: ‘In case there’s a fire or a flood,’ she explained, ‘or any act of God.’
黛西和盖茨比跳舞。我记得我对他优雅而保守的狐步舞感到惊讶——我以前从未见过他跳舞。然后他们漫步到我家，在台阶上坐了半个小时，而应她的要求，我留在花园里保持警惕：“以防发生火灾或洪水，”她解释道，“或任何天灾。”

Tom appeared from his oblivion as we were sitting down to supper together. ‘Do you mind if I eat with some people over here?’ he said. ‘A fellow’s getting off some funny stuff.’
当我们一起坐下来吃晚饭时，汤姆从他的遗忘中出现了。 “你介意我和这里的一些人一起吃​​饭吗？”他说。 “一个家伙正在做一些有趣的事情。”

‘Go ahead,’ answered Daisy genially, ‘And if you want to take down any addresses here’s my little gold pencil….’ She looked around after a moment and told me the girl was ‘common but pretty,’ and I knew that except for the half hour she’d been alone with Gatsby she wasn’t having a good time.
“来吧，”黛西和蔼地回答，“如果你想记下任何地址，这是我的小金铅笔……”过了一会儿，她环顾四周，告诉我这个女孩“很普通，但很漂亮”，我知道除了和盖茨比单独相处的半个小时里，她过得并不愉快。

We were at a particularly tipsy table. That was my fault—Gatsby had been called to the phone and I’d enjoyed these same people only two weeks before. But what had amused me then turned septic on the air now.
我们坐在一张特别醉的桌子上。那是我的错——盖茨比接到电话，而就在两周前，我还喜欢这些人。但当时让我觉得有趣的事情现在却在空气中变得败坏了。

‘How do you feel, Miss Baedeker?’
“贝德克尔小姐，你感觉怎么样？”

The girl addressed was trying, unsuccessfully, to slump against my shoulder. At this inquiry she sat up and opened her eyes.
说话的那个女孩试图靠在我的肩膀上，但没有成功。听到这个询问，她坐了起来，睁开了眼睛。

‘Wha?’
'世界卫生大会？'

A massive and lethargic woman, who had been urging Daisy to play golf with her at the local club tomorrow, spoke in Miss Baedeker’s defence:
一位身材魁梧、昏昏欲睡的女士为贝德克尔小姐辩护：

‘Oh, she’s all right now. When she’s had five or six cocktails she always starts screaming like that. I tell her she ought to leave it alone.’
‘哦，她现在没事了。当她喝了五六杯鸡尾酒时，她总是开始像那样尖叫。我告诉她她应该别管它。

‘I do leave it alone,’ affirmed the accused hollowly.
“我确实不去管它，”被告空洞地肯定道。

‘We heard you yelling, so I said to Doc Civet here: ‘There’s somebody that needs your help, Doc.’ ‘
“我们听到你大喊大叫，所以我在这里对西维特医生说：‘有人需要你的帮助，医生。’”

‘She’s much obliged, I’m sure,’ said another friend, without gratitude. ‘But you got her dress all wet when you stuck her head in the pool.’
“我确信她非常感激，”另一位朋友毫无感激地说。 “但是当你把她的头伸进泳池时，她的衣服都湿透了。”

‘Anything I hate is to get my head stuck in a pool,’ mumbled Miss Baedeker. ‘They almost drowned me once over in New Jersey.’
“我最讨厌的事情就是把头卡在水池里。”贝德克尔小姐咕哝道。 “有一次他们在新泽西差点把我淹死。”

‘Then you ought to leave it alone,’ countered Doctor Civet.
“那你就别管它了，”西维特医生反驳道。

‘Speak for yourself!’ cried Miss Baedeker violently. ‘Your hand shakes. I wouldn’t let you operate on me!’
“你自己说吧！”贝德克尔小姐猛烈地喊道。 ‘你的手在颤抖。我不会让你给我做手术的！

It was like that. Almost the last thing I remember was standing with Daisy and watching the moving picture director and his Star. They were still under the white plum tree and their faces were touching except for a pale thin ray of moonlight between. It occurred to me that he had been very slowly bending toward her all evening to attain this proximity, and even while I watched I saw him stoop one ultimate degree and kiss at her cheek.
就是这样。我记得的最后一件事几乎就是和黛西站在一起，看着电影导演和他的明星。他们还在白梅树下，脸庞贴在一起，中间只隔着一缕淡淡的月光。我突然想到，他整个晚上都在非常缓慢地向她弯腰，以达到这种接近的程度，甚至在我观看的时候，我也看到他弯下最大的角度，亲吻她的脸颊。

‘I like her,’ said Daisy, ‘I think she’s lovely.’
“我喜欢她，”黛西说，“我觉得她很可爱。”

But the rest offended her—and inarguably, because it wasn’t a gesture but an emotion. She was appalled by West Egg, this unprecedented ‘place’ that Broadway had begotten upon a Long Island fishing village—appalled by its raw vigor that chafed under the old euphemisms and by the too obtrusive fate that herded its inhabitants along a short cut from nothing to nothing. She saw something awful in the very simplicity she failed to understand.
但其余的都冒犯了她——毫无疑问，因为这不是一种姿态，而是一种情感。她对西埃格感到震惊，这个百老汇在长岛渔村上诞生的前所未有的“地方”——对它在古老的委婉说法下磨破的原始活力和过于突兀的命运感到震惊，它迫使它的居民走上一条从虚无中走出来的捷径。什么都没有。她在她无法理解的简单性中看到了一些可怕的东西。

I sat on the front steps with them while they waited for their car. It was dark here in front: only the bright door sent ten square feet of light volleying out into the soft black morning. Sometimes a shadow moved against a dressing-room blind above, gave way to another shadow, an indefinite procession of shadows, who rouged and powdered in an invisible glass.
当他们等车时，我和他们一起坐在前面的台阶上。前面一片漆黑：只有明亮的门发出十平方英尺的光线，射入柔和的黑色早晨。有时，一个影子在上面的更衣室百叶窗上移动，让位于另一个影子，一个无限的影子队伍，他们在隐形玻璃中涂胭脂和扑粉。

‘Who is this Gatsby anyhow?’ demanded Tom suddenly. ‘Some big bootlegger?’
“这个盖茨比到底是谁？”汤姆突然问道。 “某个大走私犯？”

‘Where’d you hear that?’ I inquired.
“你从哪里听说的？”我问道。

‘I didn’t hear it. I imagined it. A lot of these newly rich people are just big bootleggers, you know.’
‘我没听见。我想象的。你知道，这些新贵中的很多人都是大走私犯。

‘Not Gatsby,’ I said shortly.
“不是盖茨比，”我简短地说。

He was silent for a moment. The pebbles of the drive crunched under his feet.
他沉默了一会儿。车道上的鹅卵石在他脚下嘎吱作响。

‘Well, he certainly must have strained himself to get this menagerie together.’
“嗯，他一定是竭尽全力才把这个动物园聚集在一起。”

A breeze stirred the grey haze of Daisy’s fur collar.
微风吹动了黛西毛领上灰色的薄雾。

‘At least they’re more interesting than the people we know,’ she said with an effort.
“至少他们比我们认识的人更有趣，”她努力地说。

‘You didn’t look so interested.’
“你看起来不太感兴趣。”

‘Well, I was.’
“嗯，我是。”

Tom laughed and turned to me.
汤姆笑了，转向我。

‘Did you notice Daisy’s face when that girl asked her to put her under a cold shower?’
“当那个女孩让黛西给她洗冷水澡时，你注意到黛西的脸了吗？”

Daisy began to sing with the music in a husky, rhythmic whisper, bringing out a meaning in each word that it had never had before and would never have again. When the melody rose, her voice broke up sweetly, following it, in a way contralto voices have, and each change tipped out a little of her warm human magic upon the air.
黛西开始用沙哑、有节奏的低语随着音乐唱歌，每个词都表达出以前从未有过、也永远不会再有的含义。当旋律响起时，她的声音甜美地响起，跟随它，就像女低音一样，每一个变化都在空气中散发出一点她温暖的人类魔力。

‘Lots of people come who haven’t been invited,’ she said suddenly. ‘That girl hadn’t been invited. They simply force their way in and he’s too polite to object.’
“很多人都没有被邀请来，”她突然说道。 ‘那个女孩没有被邀请。他们只是强行闯入，而他很有礼貌，没有反对。”

‘I’d like to know who he is and what he does,’ insisted Tom. ‘And I think I’ll make a point of finding out.’
“我想知道他是谁以及他做什么，”汤姆坚持说。 “我想我会努力找出答案。”

‘I can tell you right now,’ she answered. ‘He owned some drug stores, a lot of drug stores. He built them up himself.’
“我现在就可以告诉你，”她回答道。 “他拥有一些药店，很多药店。他自己建造了它们。

The dilatory limousine came rolling up the drive.
拖沓的豪华轿车沿着车道驶来。

‘Good night, Nick,’ said Daisy.
“晚安，尼克，”黛西说。

Her glance left me and sought the lighted top of the steps where ‘Three o’Clock in the Morning,’ a neat, sad little waltz of that year, was drifting out the open door. After all, in the very casualness of Gatsby’s party there were romantic possibilities totally absent from her world. What was it up there in the song that seemed to be calling her back inside? What would happen now in the dim incalculable hours? Perhaps some unbelievable guest would arrive, a person infinitely rare and to be marvelled at, some authentically radiant young girl who with one fresh glance at Gatsby, one moment of magical encounter, would blot out those five years of unwavering devotion.
她的目光离开了我，转向了灯火通明的台阶顶，那一年，一首简洁、悲伤的小华尔兹曲《凌晨三点》正从敞开的门里飘出来。毕竟，在盖茨比极其随意的聚会中，她的世界里完全没有浪漫的可能性。歌曲中的什么似乎在召唤她回到内心？在这难以估量的昏暗时间里，现在会发生什么？也许会有一位令人难以置信的客人到来，一位极其罕见且令人惊叹的人，一位真正容光焕发的年轻女孩，她只要再看一眼盖茨比，一次神奇的邂逅，就会抹掉五年来坚定不移的忠诚。

I stayed late that night. Gatsby asked me to wait until he was free and I lingered in the garden until the inevitable swimming party had run up, chilled and exalted, from the black beach, until the lights were extinguished in the guest rooms overhead. When he came down the steps at last the tanned skin was drawn unusually tight on his face, and his eyes were bright and tired.
那天晚上我呆得很晚。盖茨比让我等他有空，我在花园里徘徊，直到不可避免的游泳队从黑沙滩上跑来，寒冷而兴奋，直到头顶客房的灯光熄灭。当他终于走下台阶时，晒黑的皮肤异常紧绷，他的眼睛明亮而疲惫。

‘She didn’t like it,’ he said immediately.
“她不喜欢这样，”他立即说道。

‘Of course she did.’
“她当然这么做了。”

‘She didn’t like it,’ he insisted. ‘She didn’t have a good time.’
“她不喜欢这样，”他坚持说。 “她过得并不愉快。”

He was silent and I guessed at his unutterable depression.
他沉默不语，我猜到了他难言的沮丧。

‘I feel far away from her,’ he said. ‘It’s hard to make her understand.’
他说：“我感觉离她很远。” “很难让她理解。”

‘You mean about the dance?’
“你是说舞蹈吗？”

‘The dance?’ He dismissed all the dances he had given with a snap of his fingers. ‘Old sport, the dance is unimportant.’
“舞蹈？”他打了个响指，就把所有的舞蹈都打消了。 “老兄，舞蹈并不重要。”

He wanted nothing less of Daisy than that she should go to Tom and say: ‘I never loved you.’ After she had obliterated three years with that sentence they could decide upon the more practical measures to be taken. One of them was that, after she was free, they were to go back to Louisville and be married from her house—just as if it were five years ago.
他对黛西的期望就是让她去找汤姆说：“我从来没有爱过你。”在她用这句话抹去三年之后，他们可以决定采取更实际的措施。其中之一是，在她自由后，他们将回到路易斯维尔，在她家结婚——就像五年前一样。

‘And she doesn’t understand,’ he said. ‘She used to be able to understand. We’d sit for hours——‘
“她不明白，”他说。 ‘她以前能够理解。我们会坐几个小时——”

He broke off and began to walk up and down a desolate path of fruit rinds and discarded favors and crushed flowers.
他停下来，开始在一条荒凉的小路上走来走去，小路上布满了果皮、丢弃的恩惠和压碎的鲜花。

‘I wouldn’t ask too much of her,’ I ventured. ‘You can’t repeat the past.’
“我不会对她要求太多，”我大胆地说。 “你不能重复过去。”

‘Can’t repeat the past?’ he cried incredulously. ‘Why of course you can!’
“不能重蹈覆辙吗？”他难以置信地喊道。 “为什么你当然可以！”

He looked around him wildly, as if the past were lurking here in the shadow of his house, just out of reach of his hand.
他疯狂地环顾四周，仿佛过去就潜伏在他房子的阴影里，触手可及。

‘I’m going to fix everything just the way it was before,’ he said, nodding determinedly. ‘She’ll see.’
“我会像以前一样修复一切，”他坚定地点点头说道。 “她会看到的。”

He talked a lot about the past and I gathered that he wanted to recover something, some idea of himself perhaps, that had gone into loving Daisy. His life had been confused and disordered since then, but if he could once return to a certain starting place and go over it all slowly, he could find out what that thing was….
他谈了很多过去的事，我猜想他想找回一些东西，也许是他自己的一些想法，这些东西已经融入了黛西的爱之中。他的生活从此变得混乱无序，但如果他能回到某个起点，慢慢地看一遍，他就能知道那东西是什么……

… One autumn night, five years before, they had been walking down the street when the leaves were falling, and they came to a place where there were no trees and the sidewalk was white with moonlight. They stopped here and turned toward each other. Now it was a cool night with that mysterious excitement in it which comes at the two changes of the year. The quiet lights in the houses were humming out into the darkness and there was a stir and bustle among the stars. Out of the corner of his eye Gatsby saw that the blocks of the sidewalk really formed a ladder and mounted to a secret place above the trees—he could climb to it, if he climbed alone, and once there he could suck on the pap of life, gulp down the incomparable milk of wonder.
……五年前的一个秋夜，他们在树叶飘落的街道上行走，来到一处没有树木的地方，人行道被月光映得雪白。他们停了下来，转身面向对方。现在是一个凉爽的夜晚，带着一年中两次更替时出现的神秘兴奋。房屋里安静的灯光在黑暗中嗡嗡作响，星星间一片喧闹。盖茨比用眼角的余光看到，人行道上的石块确实形成了一架梯子，通向树木上方的一个秘密地方——如果他独自爬上去，他就能爬到那里，一旦到了那里，他就可以吮吸生命，吞下无与伦比的奇迹乳汁。

His heart beat faster and faster as Daisy’s white face came up to his own. He knew that when he kissed this girl, and forever wed his unutterable visions to her perishable breath, his mind would never romp again like the mind of God. So he waited, listening for a moment longer to the tuning fork that had been struck upon a star. Then he kissed her. At his lips’ touch she blossomed for him like a flower and the incarnation was complete.
当黛西苍白的脸贴近他的脸时，他的心跳得越来越快。他知道，当他亲吻这个女孩，并将他难以言喻的幻象永远与她易逝的呼吸结合在一起时，他的思想将永远不会再像上帝的思想那样嬉戏。于是他等待着，又听了一会儿音叉敲击星星的声音。然后他吻了她。在他嘴唇的触碰下，她像一朵花一样为他绽放，化身完成。

Through all he said, even through his appalling sentimentality, I was reminded of something—an elusive rhythm, a fragment of lost words, that I had heard somewhere a long time ago. For a moment a phrase tried to take shape in my mouth and my lips parted like a dumb man’s, as though there was more struggling upon them than a wisp of startled air. But they made no sound and what I had almost remembered was uncommunicable forever.
通过他所说的一切，甚至通过他令人震惊的多愁善感，我想起了一些东西——一种难以捉摸的节奏，一段失落的话语的片段，我很久以前在哪里听过。有一瞬间，一个词句试图在我嘴里成形，我的嘴唇像哑巴一样张开，仿佛除了一缕受惊的空气之外，还有更多的东西在挣扎。但他们没有发出任何声音，而我几乎记住的事情却永远无法传达。

Chapter 7
第7章

It was when curiosity about Gatsby was at its highest that the lights in his house failed to go on one Saturday night—and, as obscurely as it had begun, his career as Trimalchio was over.
就在对盖茨比的好奇心达到最高点的时候，他家的灯在一个周六的晚上没有亮起来——而且，正如它开始时一样模糊，他作为特里马尔基奥的职业生涯结束了。

Only gradually did I become aware that the automobiles which turned expectantly into his drive stayed for just a minute and then drove sulkily away. Wondering if he were sick I went over to find out—an unfamiliar butler with a villainous face squinted at me suspiciously from the door.
渐渐地，我才意识到那些满怀期待地驶入他车道的汽车只停留了一分钟，然后就闷闷不乐地开走了。我想知道他是不是生病了，我就过去一探究竟——一个陌生的管家，一脸凶恶地在门口斜眼看着我。

‘Is Mr. Gatsby sick?’
“盖茨比先生病了吗？”

‘Nope.’ After a pause he added ‘sir’ in a dilatory, grudging way.
“不。”停顿了一下，他拖拖拉拉、勉强地加了一句“先生”。

‘I hadn’t seen him around, and I was rather worried. Tell him Mr. Carraway came over.’
“我没见过他，我很担心。告诉他卡罗威先生过来了。”

‘Who?’ he demanded rudely.
“谁？”他粗鲁地问道。

‘Carraway.’
“卡拉威。”

‘Carraway. All right, I’ll tell him.’ Abruptly he slammed the door.
‘卡拉威。好吧，我会告诉他的。”他突然关上门。

My Finn informed me that Gatsby had dismissed every servant in his house a week ago and replaced them with half a dozen others, who never went into West Egg Village to be bribed by the tradesmen, but ordered moderate supplies over the telephone. The grocery boy reported that the kitchen looked like a pigsty, and the general opinion in the village was that the new people weren’t servants at all.
我的芬兰人告诉我，盖茨比一周前解雇了家里的所有仆人，并用另外六名仆人取而代之，他们从来没有去西卵村接受商人的贿赂，而是通过电话订购了适量的物资。杂货店男孩报告说厨房看起来像猪圈，村里的普遍看法是新来的人根本不是仆人。

Next day Gatsby called me on the phone.
第二天盖茨比给我打电话。

‘Going away?’ I inquired.
“要走吗？”我问道。

‘No, old sport.’
“不，老兄。”

‘I hear you fired all your servants.’
“我听说你解雇了所有仆人。”

‘I wanted somebody who wouldn’t gossip. Daisy comes over quite often—in the afternoons.’
“我想要一个不会八卦的人。黛西经常过来——下午的时候。

So the whole caravansary had fallen in like a card house at the disapproval in her eyes.
因此，整个商队都因为她眼神中的不满而像纸牌屋一样崩溃了。

‘They’re some people Wolfshiem wanted to do something for. They’re all brothers and sisters. They used to run a small hotel.’
“沃尔夫山姆想为他们做点什么。他们都是兄弟姐妹。他们曾经经营一家小旅馆。

‘I see.’
'我懂了。'

He was calling up at Daisy’s request—would I come to lunch at her house tomorrow? Miss Baker would be there. Half an hour later Daisy herself telephoned and seemed relieved to find that I was coming. Something was up. And yet I couldn’t believe that they would choose this occasion for a scene—especially for the rather harrowing scene that Gatsby had outlined in the garden.
他是应黛西的要求打电话的——我明天能去她家吃午饭吗？贝克小姐会在那里。半小时后，黛西亲自打来电话，发现我来了，她似乎松了口气。有事发生了。但我不敢相信他们会选择这个场合来拍摄场景——尤其是盖茨比在花园里描绘的相当悲惨的场景。

The next day was broiling, almost the last, certainly the warmest, of the summer. As my train emerged from the tunnel into sunlight, only the hot whistles of the National Biscuit Company broke the simmering hush at noon. The straw seats of the car hovered on the edge of combustion; the woman next to me perspired delicately for a while into her white shirtwaist, and then, as her newspaper dampened under her fingers, lapsed despairingly into deep heat with a desolate cry. Her pocket-book slapped to the floor.
第二天天气炎热，几乎是夏天的最后一天，当然也是最温暖的一天。当我的火车从隧道驶入阳光下时，只有国家饼干公司的热汽笛声打破了中午的寂静。汽车的稻草座椅悬停在燃烧的边缘；我旁边的女人在她的白色衬衣里流了一会儿汗，然后，当她的报纸在她的手指下沾湿时，她绝望地陷入深热之中，发出一声凄凉的哭泣。她的皮夹掉到了地板上。

‘Oh, my!’ she gasped.
“哦，天哪！”她喘着气说。

I picked it up with a weary bend and handed it back to her, holding it at arm’s length and by the extreme tip of the corners to indicate that I had no designs upon it—but every one near by, including the woman, suspected me just the same.
我疲倦地弯腰捡起它，递还给她，将它保持一臂远的距离，并握住它的角尖，以表明我对它没有任何意图——但附近的每个人，包括那个女人，都怀疑我一样。

‘Hot!’ said the conductor to familiar faces. ‘Some weather! Hot! Hot! Hot! Is it hot enough for you? Is it hot? Is it … ?’
“热！”售票员对熟悉的面孔说道。 ‘天气有些好！热的！热的！热的！对你来说够热吗？热吗？是吗 … ？'

My commutation ticket came back to me with a dark stain from his hand. That any one should care in this heat whose flushed lips he kissed, whose head made damp the pajama pocket over his heart!
返还给我的车票上有他手上留下的深色污渍。在这么热的天气里，任何人都应该关心他亲吻了谁红润的嘴唇，谁的头弄湿了他心口上的睡衣口袋！

… Through the hall of the Buchanans’ house blew a faint wind, carrying the sound of the telephone bell out to Gatsby and me as we waited at the door.
……微弱的风吹过布坎南家的大厅，把电话铃的声音传到了在门口等候的我和盖茨比的耳中。

‘The master’s body!’ roared the butler into the mouthpiece. ‘I’m sorry, madame, but we can’t furnish it—it’s far too hot to touch this noon!’
“主人的尸体！”管家对着话筒吼道。 “对不起，夫人，我们不能提供它——今天中午太热了，无法触摸！”

What he really said was: ‘Yes … yes … I’ll see.’
他真正说的是：“是的……是的……我看看。”

He set down the receiver and came toward us, glistening slightly, to take our stiff straw hats.
他放下听筒，朝我们走来，微微闪闪发亮，接过我们硬邦邦的草帽。

‘Madame expects you in the salon!’ he cried, needlessly indicating the direction. In this heat every extra gesture was an affront to the common store of life.
“夫人在沙龙里等您！”他喊道，不必要地指明了方向。在这么热的天气里，每一个额外的举动都是对普通生命的侮辱。

The room, shadowed well with awnings, was dark and cool. Daisy and Jordan lay upon an enormous couch, like silver idols, weighing down their own white dresses against the singing breeze of the fans.
房间里有遮阳篷，阴暗而凉爽。黛西和乔丹躺在一张巨大的沙发上，就像银色的偶像一样，在歌迷的歌声中压下自己的白色裙子。

‘We can’t move,’ they said together.
“我们不能动，”他们一起说道。

Jordan’s fingers, powdered white over their tan, rested for a moment in mine.
乔丹的手指在晒黑的皮肤上涂着白色的粉末，在我的手指上休息了一会儿。

‘And Mr. Thomas Buchanan, the athlete?’ I inquired.
“那运动员托马斯·布坎南先生呢？”我问道。

Simultaneously I heard his voice, gruff, muffled, husky, at the hall telephone.
与此同时，我在大厅电话里听到了他的声音，粗哑、低沉、沙哑。

Gatsby stood in the center of the crimson carpet and gazed around with fascinated eyes. Daisy watched him and laughed, her sweet, exciting laugh; a tiny gust of powder rose from her bosom into the air.
盖茨比站在深红色的地毯中央，用着迷的眼睛环顾四周。黛西看着他，笑了起来，她的笑声甜美而令人兴奋。一股细小的粉末从她的怀里升到空中。

‘The rumor is,’ whispered Jordan, ‘that that’s Tom’s girl on the telephone.’
“有传言说，”乔丹低声说道，“那是汤姆的女朋友在打电话。”

We were silent. The voice in the hall rose high with annoyance. ‘Very well, then, I won’t sell you the car at all…. I’m under no obligations to you at all…. And as for your bothering me about it at lunch time I won’t stand that at all!’
我们沉默了。大厅里的声音变得高亢，充满了恼怒。 “好吧，那么，我根本不会把车卖给你……”我对你没有任何义务……至于你在午餐时间来打扰我，我根本无法忍受！

‘Holding down the receiver,’ said Daisy cynically.
“按住听筒，”黛西愤世嫉俗地说。

‘No, he’s not,’ I assured her. ‘It’s a bona fide deal. I happen to know about it.’
“不，他不是，”我向她保证。 ‘这是一笔真诚的交易。我碰巧知道这件事。

Tom flung open the door, blocked out its space for a moment with his thick body, and hurried into the room.
汤姆猛地打开门，用他粗壮的身体挡住了片刻的空间，然后就匆匆走进了房间。

‘Mr. Gatsby!’ He put out his broad, flat hand with well-concealed dislike. ‘I’m glad to see you, sir…. Nick….’
'先生。盖茨比！”他伸出宽大扁平的手，脸上掩饰不住的厌恶。 “我很高兴见到你，先生……”缺口…。'

‘Make us a cold drink,’ cried Daisy.
“给我们倒杯冷饮吧，”黛西喊道。

As he left the room again she got up and went over to Gatsby and pulled his face down kissing him on the mouth.
当他再次离开房间时，她站起来走到盖茨比身边，拉下他的脸亲吻他的嘴。

‘You know I love you,’ she murmured.
“你知道我爱你，”她低声说道。

‘You forget there’s a lady present,’ said Jordan.
“你忘了有一位女士在场，”乔丹说。

Daisy looked around doubtfully.
黛西疑惑地环顾四周。

‘You kiss Nick too.’
“你也吻了尼克。”

‘What a low, vulgar girl!’
“真是个低俗粗俗的女孩！”

‘I don’t care!’ cried Daisy and began to clog on the brick fireplace. Then she remembered the heat and sat down guiltily on the couch just as a freshly laundered nurse leading a little girl came into the room.
“我不在乎！”黛西喊道，并开始堵塞砖壁炉。然后她想起了炎热的天气，愧疚地坐在沙发上，这时一名刚洗完澡的护士带着一个小女孩走进了房间。

‘Bles-sed pre-cious,’ she crooned, holding out her arms. ‘Come to your own mother that loves you.’
“天哪，亲爱的，”她低声说道，伸出双臂。 “来到爱你的母亲身边吧。”

The child, relinquished by the nurse, rushed across the room and rooted shyly into her mother’s dress.
孩子被护士抛弃，冲过房间，害羞地扎进妈妈的衣服里。

‘The Bles-sed pre-cious! Did mother get powder on your old yellowy hair? Stand up now, and say How-de-do.’
‘天哪，亲爱的！妈妈是不是在你那黄头发上抹了粉？现在站起来，说“How-de-do”。

Gatsby and I in turn leaned down and took the small reluctant hand. Afterward he kept looking at the child with surprise. I don’t think he had ever really believed in its existence before.
盖茨比和我依次弯下身子，握住那只不情愿的小手。随后他一直惊讶地看着孩子。我认为他以前从未真正相信过它的存在。

‘I got dressed before luncheon,’ said the child, turning eagerly to Daisy.
“我在午饭前穿好衣服了，”孩子急切地转向黛西说道。

‘That’s because your mother wanted to show you off.’ Her face bent into the single wrinkle of the small white neck. ‘You dream, you. You absolute little dream.’
“那是因为你妈妈想炫耀你。”她的脸弯向白色小脖子上的一条皱纹。 ‘你在做梦，你。你绝对是个小梦想。

‘Yes,’ admitted the child calmly. ‘Aunt Jordan’s got on a white dress too.’
“是的。”孩子平静地承认。 “乔丹阿姨也穿了一件白色连衣裙。”

‘How do you like mother’s friends?’ Daisy turned her around so that she faced Gatsby. ‘Do you think they’re pretty?’
“你觉得妈妈的朋友怎么样？”黛西把她转过身，面向盖茨比。 “你觉得它们漂亮吗？”

‘Where’s Daddy?’
“爸爸在哪儿？”

‘She doesn’t look like her father,’ explained Daisy. ‘She looks like me. She’s got my hair and shape of the face.’
“她看起来不像她父亲，”黛西解释道。 ‘她看起来像我。她有我的头发和脸型。

Daisy sat back upon the couch. The nurse took a step forward and held out her hand.
黛西坐回沙发上。护士上前一步，伸出了手。

‘Come, Pammy.’
“来吧，帕米。”

‘Goodbye, sweetheart!’
“再见，亲爱的！”

With a reluctant backward glance the well-disciplined child held to her nurse’s hand and was pulled out the door, just as Tom came back, preceding four gin rickeys that clicked full of ice.
纪律严明的孩子不情愿地回头看了一眼，抓住了护士的手，被拉出了门，这时汤姆回来了，前面是四杯装满冰块的杜松子酒。

Gatsby took up his drink.
盖茨比拿起酒杯。

‘They certainly look cool,’ he said, with visible tension.
“它们看起来确实很酷，”他说道，语气明显紧张。

We drank in long greedy swallows.
我们贪婪地大口喝着酒。

‘I read somewhere that the sun’s getting hotter every year,’ said Tom genially. ‘It seems that pretty soon the earth’s going to fall into the sun—or wait a minute—it’s just the opposite—the sun’s getting colder every year.
“我在哪里读到过，太阳一年比一年热，”汤姆和蔼地说。 “看起来地球很快就会落入太阳的怀抱——或者等一下——事实恰恰相反——太阳每年都在变得更冷。

‘Come outside,’ he suggested to Gatsby, ‘I’d like you to have a look at the place.’
“到外面来吧，”他向盖茨比建议，“我想让你看看这个地方。”

I went with them out to the veranda. On the green Sound, stagnant in the heat, one small sail crawled slowly toward the fresher sea. Gatsby’s eyes followed it momentarily; he raised his hand and pointed across the bay.
我和他们一起走到阳台上。绿色的海峡上，在炎热中停滞不前，一面小帆慢慢地爬向更清新的大海。盖茨比的目光短暂地追随着它。他举起手，指着海湾对面。

‘I’m right across from you.’
“我就在你对面。”

‘So you are.’
“原来如此。”

Our eyes lifted over the rosebeds and the hot lawn and the weedy refuse of the dog days along shore. Slowly the white wings of the boat moved against the blue cool limit of the sky. Ahead lay the scalloped ocean and the abounding blessed isles.
我们的目光扫过玫瑰花坛、炎热的草坪和海岸边的三伏天杂草丛生的垃圾。船的白色翅膀慢慢地在蓝色凉爽的天空边缘移动。前方是扇形的海洋和众多的幸福岛屿。

‘There’s sport for you,’ said Tom, nodding. ‘I’d like to be out there with him for about an hour.’
“有适合你的运动，”汤姆点点头说。 “我想和他一起待大约一个小时。”

We had luncheon in the dining-room, darkened, too, against the heat, and drank down nervous gayety with the cold ale.
我们在餐厅里吃午饭，餐厅里的光线也比较暗，以抵御炎热的天气，我们喝着冰啤酒，喝下了紧张的快乐。

‘What’ll we do with ourselves this afternoon,’ cried Daisy, ‘and the day after that, and the next thirty years?’
“今天下午我们要做什么，”黛西喊道，“还有后天，以及接下来的三十年？”

‘Don’t be morbid,’ Jordan said. ‘Life starts all over again when it gets crisp in the fall.’
“别病态，”乔丹说。 “当秋天变得清爽时，生活又会重新开始。”

‘But it’s so hot,’ insisted Daisy, on the verge of tears, ‘And everything’s so confused. Let’s all go to town!’
“但是天气太热了，”黛西几乎要哭了，她坚持道，“而且一切都那么混乱。”我们都进城吧！

Her voice struggled on through the heat, beating against it, moulding its senselessness into forms.
她的声音在炎热中挣扎着，击打着它，将它的毫无意义塑造成形式。

‘I’ve heard of making a garage out of a stable,’ Tom was saying to Gatsby, ‘but I’m the first man who ever made a stable out of a garage.’
“我听说过用马厩改造成车库，”汤姆对盖茨比说，“但我是第一个用车库改造成马厩的人。”

‘Who wants to go to town?’ demanded Daisy insistently. Gatsby’s eyes floated toward her. ‘Ah,’ she cried, ‘you look so cool.’
“谁想去城里？”黛西坚持问道。盖茨比的目光飘向她。 “啊，”她叫道，“你看起来真酷。”

Their eyes met, and they stared together at each other, alone in space. With an effort she glanced down at the table.
他们的目光交汇在一起，彼此凝视着对方，只剩下空中的一人。她费力地低头看了一眼桌子。

‘You always look so cool,’ she repeated.
“你看起来总是那么酷，”她重复道。

She had told him that she loved him, and Tom Buchanan saw. He was astounded. His mouth opened a little and he looked at Gatsby and then back at Daisy as if he had just recognized her as some one he knew a long time ago.
她告诉他她爱他，汤姆·布坎南看到了。他很惊讶。他的嘴微微张开，看看盖茨比，然后又看看黛西，仿佛他刚刚认出她是他很久以前认识的人。

‘You resemble the advertisement of the man,’ she went on innocently. ‘You know the advertisement of the man——‘
“你就像那个男人的广告。”她天真地继续说道。 “你知道那个男人的广告——”

‘All right,’ broke in Tom quickly, ‘I’m perfectly willing to go to town. Come on—we’re all going to town.’
“好吧，”汤姆很快插话道，“我非常愿意进城。”来吧——我们都要去城里。

He got up, his eyes still flashing between Gatsby and his wife. No one moved.
他站了起来，目光仍然在盖茨比和他的妻子之间闪烁。没有人动。

‘Come on!’ His temper cracked a little. ‘What’s the matter, anyhow? If we’re going to town let’s start.’
“来吧！”他的脾气有点暴躁。 ‘到底是怎么回事？如果我们要去城里，那就开始吧。

His hand, trembling with his effort at self control, bore to his lips the last of his glass of ale. Daisy’s voice got us to our feet and out on to the blazing gravel drive.
他的手因努力控制自己而颤抖，将最后一杯麦酒送到唇边。黛西的声音让我们站起来，走向炽热的碎石路。

‘Are we just going to go?’ she objected. ‘Like this? Aren’t we going to let any one smoke a cigarette first?’
“我们就这样走吗？”她反对道。 '像这样？我们不是要让任何人先抽烟吗？

‘Everybody smoked all through lunch.’
“午餐期间每个人都抽烟。”

‘Oh, let’s have fun,’ she begged him. ‘It’s too hot to fuss.’
“哦，让我们玩得开心吧，”她恳求他。 “太热了，没法大惊小怪。”

He didn’t answer.
他没有回答。

‘Have it your own way,’ she said. ‘Come on, Jordan.’
“按你自己的方式来吧，”她说。 “来吧，乔丹。”

They went upstairs to get ready while we three men stood there shuffling the hot pebbles with our feet. A silver curve of the moon hovered already in the western sky. Gatsby started to speak, changed his mind, but not before Tom wheeled and faced him expectantly.
他们上楼去准备，而我们三个人站在那里用脚拖着热石子。一道银色的弯月已经悬在西边的天空。盖茨比开始说话，但他改变了主意，但汤姆转过身来，满怀期待地面对着他。

‘Have you got your stables here?’ asked Gatsby with an effort.
“你的马厩在这里吗？”盖茨比费力地问道。

‘About a quarter of a mile down the road.’
“沿着路大约四分之一英里。”

‘Oh.’
'哦。'

A pause.
停顿一下。

‘I don’t see the idea of going to town,’ broke out Tom savagely. ‘Women get these notions in their heads——‘
“我不认为有进城的念头。”汤姆粗暴地说道。 “女人脑子里有这些观念——”

‘Shall we take anything to drink?’ called Daisy from an upper window.
“我们要喝点什么吗？”黛西从楼上的窗户喊道。

‘I’ll get some whiskey,’ answered Tom. He went inside.
“我去买点威士忌，”汤姆回答。他进去了。

Gatsby turned to me rigidly:
盖茨比僵硬地转向我：

‘I can’t say anything in his house, old sport.’
“我在他家里什么都不能说，老兄。”

‘She’s got an indiscreet voice,’ I remarked. ‘It’s full of——‘
“她的声音很不检点，”我评论道。 ‘里面充满了——’

I hesitated.
我犹豫了。

‘Her voice is full of money,’ he said suddenly.
“她的声音里充满了金钱，”他突然说道。

That was it. I’d never understood before. It was full of money—that was the inexhaustible charm that rose and fell in it, the jingle of it, the cymbals’ song of it…. High in a white palace the king’s daughter, the golden girl….
就是这样。我以前一直不明白。里面装满了钱——那就是在里面升起又落下的无穷无尽的魅力，它的叮当声，它的铙钹之歌……。在白色宫殿的高处，国王的女儿，金色的女孩......

Tom came out of the house wrapping a quart bottle in a towel, followed by Daisy and Jordan wearing small tight hats of metallic cloth and carrying light capes over their arms.
汤姆用毛巾包裹着一夸脱的瓶子走出家门，黛西和乔丹戴着金属布制成的小紧身帽，手臂上披着浅色斗篷。

‘Shall we all go in my car?’ suggested Gatsby. He felt the hot, green leather of the seat. ‘I ought to have left it in the shade.’
“我们都坐我的车去吧？”盖茨比建议道。他感觉到座椅上滚烫的绿色皮革。 “我应该把它放在阴凉处。”

‘Is it standard shift?’ demanded Tom.
“这是标准班次吗？”汤姆问道。

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘Well, you take my coupé and let me drive your car to town.’
“好吧，你开我的双门轿车，让我开你的车去城里。”

The suggestion was distasteful to Gatsby.
这个建议令盖茨比反感。

‘I don’t think there’s much gas,’ he objected.
“我认为没有多少天然气，”他反对道。

‘Plenty of gas,’ said Tom boisterously. He looked at the gauge. ‘And if it runs out I can stop at a drug store. You can buy anything at a drug store nowadays.’
“汽油充足，”汤姆大声说道。他看了看仪表。 “如果药用完了，我可以去药店。”现在你可以在药店买到任何东西。

A pause followed this apparently pointless remark. Daisy looked at Tom frowning and an indefinable expression, at once definitely unfamiliar and vaguely recognizable, as if I had only heard it described in words, passed over Gatsby’s face.
这句显然毫无意义的话之后停顿了一下。黛西皱着眉头看着汤姆，盖茨比脸上掠过一种难以形容的表情，既陌生又依稀可辨，就好像我只听过文字描述一样。

‘Come on, Daisy,’ said Tom, pressing her with his hand toward Gatsby’s car. ‘I’ll take you in this circus wagon.’
“来吧，黛西，”汤姆说着，用手将她推向盖茨比的车。 “我会带你坐这辆马戏团马车。”

He opened the door but she moved out from the circle of his arm.
他打开门，但她却从他的手臂中退了出来。

‘You take Nick and Jordan. We’ll follow you in the coupé.’
‘你就拿尼克和乔丹来说吧。我们会开着双门轿跑车跟着你。

She walked close to Gatsby, touching his coat with her hand. Jordan and Tom and I got into the front seat of Gatsby’s car, Tom pushed the unfamiliar gears tentatively and we shot off into the oppressive heat leaving them out of sight behind.
她走到盖茨比身边，用手抚摸他的外套。乔丹、汤姆和我坐进了盖茨比汽车的前座，汤姆试探性地推动了陌生的齿轮，我们冲进了闷热的天气，把他们抛在了身后。

‘Did you see that?’ demanded Tom.
“你看到了吗？”汤姆问道。

‘See what?’
'看什么？'

He looked at me keenly, realizing that Jordan and I must have known all along.
他敏锐地看着我，意识到乔丹和我一定一直都知道。

‘You think I’m pretty dumb, don’t you?’ he suggested. ‘Perhaps I am, but I have a—almost a second sight, sometimes, that tells me what to do. Maybe you don’t believe that, but science——‘
“你认为我很蠢，不是吗？”他建议道。 “也许我是，但有时，我几乎有第二次洞察力，它告诉我该怎么做。也许你不相信，但科学——”

He paused. The immediate contingency overtook him, pulled him back from the edge of the theoretical abyss.
他停了下来。眼前的意外事件降临到他身上，将他从理论深渊的边缘拉了回来。

‘I’ve made a small investigation of this fellow,’ he continued. ‘I could have gone deeper if I’d known——‘
“我对这个人做了一个小小的调查，”他继续说道。 “如果我知道——”

‘Do you mean you’ve been to a medium?’ inquired Jordan humorously.
“你是说你接触过媒介吗？”乔丹幽默地问道。

‘What?’ Confused, he stared at us as we laughed. ‘A medium?’
“什么？”当我们大笑时，他困惑地盯着我们。 “媒介？”

‘About Gatsby.’
“关于盖茨比。”

‘About Gatsby! No, I haven’t. I said I’d been making a small investigation of his past.’
‘关于盖茨比！不，我没有。我说我一直在对他的过去进行一次小调查。

‘And you found he was an Oxford man,’ said Jordan helpfully.
“你发现他是牛津人，”乔丹乐于助人地说。

‘An Oxford man!’ He was incredulous. ‘Like hell he is! He wears a pink suit.’
“一个牛津人！”他难以置信。 ‘真是见鬼了！他穿着一套粉红色的西装。

‘Nevertheless he’s an Oxford man.’
“尽管如此，他是牛津人。”

‘Oxford, New Mexico,’ snorted Tom contemptuously, ‘or something like that.’
“新墨西哥州的牛津，”汤姆轻蔑地哼了一声，“或者类似的地方。”

‘Listen, Tom. If you’re such a snob, why did you invite him to lunch?’ demanded Jordan crossly.
“听着，汤姆。如果你这么势利，为什么要邀请他共进午餐？”乔丹生气地问道。

‘Daisy invited him; she knew him before we were married—God knows where!’
“黛西邀请了他；她在我们结婚之前就认识他了——天知道在哪里！

We were all irritable now with the fading ale and, aware of it, we drove for a while in silence. Then as Doctor T. J. Eckleburg’s faded eyes came into sight down the road, I remembered Gatsby’s caution about gasoline.
现在，我们都因为啤酒的褪色而感到烦躁，意识到这一点后，我们默默地开了一会儿车。然后，当T·J·埃克尔伯格医生那双褪色的眼睛出现在路上时，我想起了盖茨比对汽油的谨慎态度。

‘We’ve got enough to get us to town,’ said Tom.
“我们的钱足够进城了，”汤姆说。

‘But there’s a garage right here,’ objected Jordan. ‘I don’t want to get stalled in this baking heat.’
“但是这里有一个车库，”乔丹反对道。 “我不想在这么炎热的天气里陷入困境。”

Tom threw on both brakes impatiently and we slid to an abrupt dusty stop under Wilson’s sign. After a moment the proprietor emerged from the interior of his establishment and gazed hollow-eyed at the car.
汤姆不耐烦地踩下了两个刹车，我们在威尔逊的标志下突然停了下来，尘土飞扬。过了一会儿，店主从店里出来，眼神空洞地看着那辆车。

‘Let’s have some gas!’ cried Tom roughly. ‘What do you think we stopped for—to admire the view?’
“我们喝点汽油吧！”汤姆粗声粗气地喊道。 “你认为我们停下来是为了什么——欣赏风景？”

‘I’m sick,’ said Wilson without moving. ‘I been sick all day.’
“我病了。”威尔逊一动不动地说。 “我一整天都病了。”

‘What’s the matter?’
'怎么了？'

‘I’m all run down.’
“我已经精疲力竭了。”

‘Well, shall I help myself?’ Tom demanded. ‘You sounded well enough on the phone.’
“好吧，我要自己动手吗？”汤姆问道。 “你在电话里听起来很好。”

With an effort Wilson left the shade and support of the doorway and, breathing hard, unscrewed the cap of the tank. In the sunlight his face was green.
威尔逊费了好大的劲才离开门口的阴影和支撑物，喘着粗气，拧开了水箱的盖子。阳光下，他的脸呈绿色。

‘I didn’t mean to interrupt your lunch,’ he said. ‘But I need money pretty bad and I was wondering what you were going to do with your old car.’
“我不是故意打扰你吃午饭的，”他说。 “但我非常需要钱，我想知道你打算如何处理你的旧车。”

‘How do you like this one?’ inquired Tom. ‘I bought it last week.’
“你觉得这个怎么样？”汤姆问道。 “我上周买的。”

‘It’s a nice yellow one,’ said Wilson, as he strained at the handle.
“这是一把漂亮的黄色的，”威尔逊一边说，一边用力拉着把手。

‘Like to buy it?’
“想买吗？”

‘Big chance,’ Wilson smiled faintly. ‘No, but I could make some money on the other.’
“机会很大。”威尔逊淡淡一笑。 “不，但我可以在其他方面赚点钱。”

‘What do you want money for, all of a sudden?’
“你突然要钱做什么？”

‘I’ve been here too long. I want to get away. My wife and I want to go west.’
‘我在这里已经太久了。我想离开。我和我的妻子想去西部。

‘Your wife does!’ exclaimed Tom, startled.
“是你妻子的！”汤姆吃惊地喊道。

‘She’s been talking about it for ten years.’ He rested for a moment against the pump, shading his eyes. ‘And now she’s going whether she wants to or not. I’m going to get her away.’
“她已经谈论了十年。”他靠在水泵上休息了一会儿，遮住了眼睛。 “现在不管她愿不愿意，她都要走了。我要带她走。

The coupé flashed by us with a flurry of dust and the flash of a waving hand.
轿跑车从我们身边闪过，扬起一阵灰尘，挥手一闪。

‘What do I owe you?’ demanded Tom harshly.
“我欠你什么？”汤姆严厉地问道。

‘I just got wised up to something funny the last two days,’ remarked Wilson. ‘That’s why I want to get away. That’s why I been bothering you about the car.’
“过去两天我刚刚发现了一些有趣的事情，”威尔逊说道。 ‘这就是我想逃离的原因。这就是为什么我一直在打扰你关于汽车的事情。

‘What do I owe you?’
“我欠你什么？”

‘Dollar twenty.’
“二十美元。”

The relentless beating heat was beginning to confuse me and I had a bad moment there before I realized that so far his suspicions hadn’t alighted on Tom. He had discovered that Myrtle had some sort of life apart from him in another world and the shock had made him physically sick. I stared at him and then at Tom, who had made a parallel discovery less than an hour before—and it occurred to me that there was no difference between men, in intelligence or race, so profound as the difference between the sick and the well. Wilson was so sick that he looked guilty, unforgivably guilty—as if he had just got some poor girl with child.
无情的高温开始让我感到困惑，我在那里度过了一段糟糕的时光，然后我意识到到目前为止他的怀疑还没有落到汤姆身上。他发现桃金娘在另一个世界里过着与他不同的生活，震惊让他身体不适。我盯着他，然后又看看汤姆，不到一个小时前，他也有了类似的发现——我突然想到，人与人之间，无论是智力还是种族，都没有像病人和健康人之间的差异那么深刻。 。威尔逊病得很重，看上去很内疚，而且是不可原谅的内疚——就好像他刚刚生下了某个可怜的女孩一样。

‘I’ll let you have that car,’ said Tom. ‘I’ll send it over tomorrow afternoon.’
“我会让你拥有那辆车，”汤姆说。 “明天下午我会把它寄过去。”

That locality was always vaguely disquieting, even in the broad glare of afternoon, and now I turned my head as though I had been warned of something behind. Over the ashheaps the giant eyes of Doctor T. J. Eckleburg kept their vigil but I perceived, after a moment, that other eyes were regarding us with peculiar intensity from less than twenty feet away.
那个地方总是让人隐约感到不安，即使是在午后的耀眼光芒下，现在我转过头，仿佛有人警告我身后有什么东西。在灰烬堆上方，T·J·埃克尔伯格医生的大眼睛一直保持警惕，但过了一会儿，我发现其他眼睛在不到二十英尺的地方以一种特殊的强度注视着我们。

In one of the windows over the garage the curtains had been moved aside a little and Myrtle Wilson was peering down at the car. So engrossed was she that she had no consciousness of being observed and one emotion after another crept into her face like objects into a slowly developing picture. Her expression was curiously familiar—it was an expression I had often seen on women’s faces but on Myrtle Wilson’s face it seemed purposeless and inexplicable until I realized that her eyes, wide with jealous terror, were fixed not on Tom, but on Jordan Baker, whom she took to be his wife.
车库上方的一扇窗户的窗帘被移到一边，默特尔·威尔逊正在低头看着汽车。她全神贯注，没有意识到自己被观察到，一种又一种的情绪爬上她的脸，就像物体进入一幅缓慢发展的画面。她的表情出奇地熟悉——这是我经常在女人脸上看到的表情，但在默特尔·威尔逊的脸上，这种表情似乎漫无目的、令人费解，直到我意识到她的眼睛因嫉妒和恐惧而睁得大大的，不是盯着汤姆，而是盯着乔丹·贝克，她认为他是他的妻子。

There is no confusion like the confusion of a simple mind, and as we drove away Tom was feeling the hot whips of panic. His wife and his mistress, until an hour ago secure and inviolate, were slipping precipitately from his control. Instinct made him step on the accelerator with the double purpose of overtaking Daisy and leaving Wilson behind, and we sped along toward Astoria at fifty miles an hour, until, among the spidery girders of the elevated, we came in sight of the easygoing blue coupé.
没有什么比头脑简单的混乱更令人困惑的了，当我们开车离开时，汤姆感到了恐慌的炙热鞭打。直到一个小时前，他的妻子和情妇还安全且不受侵犯，但现在却迅速脱离了他的控制。本能驱使他踩下油门，双重目的是超越黛西并把威尔逊抛在身后，我们以每小时五十英里的速度向阿斯托里亚驶去，直到在高架蜘蛛网般的大梁中，我们看到了那辆随和的蓝色轿跑车。 。

‘Those big movies around Fiftieth Street are cool,’ suggested Jordan. ‘I love New York on summer afternoons when every one’s away. There’s something very sensuous about it—overripe, as if all sorts of funny fruits were going to fall into your hands.’
“五十街附近的那些大电影很酷，”乔丹建议道。 “我喜欢夏日午后所有人都不在的纽约。它有一种非常感性的感觉——熟透了，好像各种有趣的水果都会落入你的手中。

The word ‘sensuous’ had the effect of further disquieting Tom but before he could invent a protest the coupé came to a stop and Daisy signalled us to draw up alongside.
“感性”这个词让汤姆更加不安，但在他提出抗议之前，双门轿车停了下来，黛西示意我们靠边停车。

‘Where are we going?’ she cried.
“我们要去哪里？”她喊道。

‘How about the movies?’
“电影怎么样？”

‘It’s so hot,’ she complained. ‘You go. We’ll ride around and meet you after.’ With an effort her wit rose faintly, ‘We’ll meet you on some corner. I’ll be the man smoking two cigarettes.’
“太热了，”她抱怨道。 '你去。我们会骑车到处走走，然后再与你会合。”她费了好大劲，才渐渐清醒过来，“我们会在某个拐角处与你会合。我将成为那个抽两支烟的人。

‘We can’t argue about it here,’ Tom said impatiently as a truck gave out a cursing whistle behind us. ‘You follow me to the south side of Central Park, in front of the Plaza.’
“我们不能在这里争论，”汤姆不耐烦地说，一辆卡车在我们身后发出咒骂的哨子。 “你跟我到中央公园南侧，广场前面。”

Several times he turned his head and looked back for their car, and if the traffic delayed them he slowed up until they came into sight. I think he was afraid they would dart down a side street and out of his life forever.
有几次，他转过头，回头寻找他们的车，如果交通堵塞了他们，他就会放慢速度，直到他们出现在视野中。我认为他担心他们会沿着小巷飞奔而出，永远消失在他的生活中。

But they didn’t. And we all took the less explicable step of engaging the parlor of a suite in the Plaza Hotel.
但他们没有。我们都采取了不太解释的步骤，订下了广场酒店套房的客厅。

The prolonged and tumultuous argument that ended by herding us into that room eludes me, though I have a sharp physical memory that, in the course of it, my underwear kept climbing like a damp snake around my legs and intermittent beads of sweat raced cool across my back. The notion originated with Daisy’s suggestion that we hire five bathrooms and take cold baths, and then assumed more tangible form as ‘a place to have a mint julep.’ Each of us said over and over that it was a ‘crazy idea’—we all talked at once to a baffled clerk and thought, or pretended to think, that we were being very funny….
这场旷日持久、喧闹的争吵最终把我们赶进了那个房间，但我却记不清了，尽管我的身体记忆很敏锐，在争吵过程中，我的内衣像一条潮湿的蛇一样在我的腿上不断攀爬，断断续续的汗珠在我身上流过。我的背。这个想法起源于黛西的建议，即我们租用五间浴室并洗冷水澡，然后采用更具体的形式作为“喝薄荷冰镇酒的地方”。我们每个人都一遍又一遍地说这是一个“疯狂的想法”——我们所有人同时与一个困惑的店员交谈，并认为或假装认为我们非常有趣……。

The room was large and stifling, and, though it was already four o’clock, opening the windows admitted only a gust of hot shrubbery from the Park. Daisy went to the mirror and stood with her back to us, fixing her hair.
房间又大又闷，虽然已经四点了，但打开窗户只能从公园里吹来一阵炎热的灌木丛。黛西走到镜子前，背对着我们站着，整理头发。

‘It’s a swell suite,’ whispered Jordan respectfully and every one laughed.
“这是一套豪华的套房，”乔丹恭敬地低声说道，每个人都笑了。

‘Open another window,’ commanded Daisy, without turning around.
“再打开一扇窗户。”黛西没有转身，命令道。

‘There aren’t any more.’
“没有了。”

‘Well, we’d better telephone for an axe——‘
“好吧，我们最好打电话要一把斧头——”

‘The thing to do is to forget about the heat,’ said Tom impatiently. ‘You make it ten times worse by crabbing about it.’
“我们要做的就是忘记炎热，”汤姆不耐烦地说。 “如果你对这件事发脾气，事情就会变得更糟十倍。”

He unrolled the bottle of whiskey from the towel and put it on the table.
他从毛巾上取下那瓶威士忌，放在桌子上。

‘Why not let her alone, old sport?’ remarked Gatsby. ‘You’re the one that wanted to come to town.’
“为什么不让她一个人呆着呢，老兄？”盖茨比说。 “你是那个想进城的人。”

There was a moment of silence. The telephone book slipped from its nail and splashed to the floor, whereupon Jordan whispered ‘Excuse me’—but this time no one laughed.
一阵沉默。电话簿从钉子上滑落，溅到地板上，乔丹低声说道“对不起”——但这一次没有人笑。

‘I’ll pick it up,’ I offered.
“我去捡。”我提议道。

‘I’ve got it.’ Gatsby examined the parted string, muttered ‘Hum!’ in an interested way, and tossed the book on a chair.
“我明白了。”盖茨比检查了那根分开的绳子，饶有兴趣地嘟哝了一声“嗯！”，然后把书扔到了椅子上。

‘That’s a great expression of yours, isn’t it?’ said Tom sharply.
“你的表情真是太棒了，不是吗？”汤姆尖锐地说。

‘What is?’
'什么是？'

‘All this ‘old sport’ business. Where’d you pick that up?’
“所有这些‘古老的运动’生意。你从哪里捡到的？

‘Now see here, Tom,’ said Daisy, turning around from the mirror, ‘if you’re going to make personal remarks I won’t stay here a minute. Call up and order some ice for the mint julep.’
“现在听着，汤姆，”黛西从镜子前转过身来，说道，“如果你要发表个人言论，我一分钟都不会在这里停留。打电话订购一些冰块来喝薄荷冰镇酒。

As Tom took up the receiver the compressed heat exploded into sound and we were listening to the portentous chords of Mendelssohn’s Wedding March from the ballroom below.
当汤姆拿起听筒时，压缩的热量爆炸成声音，我们正在下面的舞厅里聆听门德尔松婚礼进行曲的不祥和弦。

‘Imagine marrying anybody in this heat!’ cried Jordan dismally.
“想象一下在这么热的天气里和任何人结婚吧！”乔丹沮丧地喊道。

‘Still—I was married in the middle of June,’ Daisy remembered, ‘Louisville in June! Somebody fainted. Who was it fainted, Tom?’
“不过——我在六月中旬结婚了，”黛西回忆道，“六月在路易斯维尔！”有人晕倒了。汤姆，谁晕倒了？

‘Biloxi,’ he answered shortly.
“比洛克西，”他简短地回答。

‘A man named Biloxi. ‘Blocks’ Biloxi, and he made boxes—that’s a fact—and he was from Biloxi, Tennessee.’
‘一个名叫比洛克西的人。 ‘积木’比洛克西，他制作盒子——这是事实——他来自田纳西州比洛克西。”

‘They carried him into my house,’ appended Jordan, ‘because we lived just two doors from the church. And he stayed three weeks, until Daddy told him he had to get out. The day after he left Daddy died.’ After a moment she added as if she might have sounded irreverent, ‘There wasn’t any connection.’
“他们把他抬进了我家，”乔丹补充道，“因为我们住的地方离教堂只有两扇门。他待了三个星期，直到爸爸告诉他必须离开。他离开的第二天，爸爸就去世了。”过了一会儿，她又补充道，“两者之间没有任何联系，这听起来可能有点不敬。”

‘I used to know a Bill Biloxi from Memphis,’ I remarked.
“我以前认识一个来自孟菲斯的比尔·比洛克西，”我说道。

‘That was his cousin. I knew his whole family history before he left. He gave me an aluminum putter that I use today.’
‘那是他的表弟。在他离开之前我就知道他的整个家族史。他给了我一个我今天用的铝制推杆。

The music had died down as the ceremony began and now a long cheer floated in at the window, followed by intermittent cries of ‘Yea—ea—ea!’ and finally by a burst of jazz as the dancing began.
仪式开始时，音乐逐渐减弱，窗外飘来一阵长长的欢呼声，接着是断断续续的“耶——耶——耶！”的叫喊声，最后随着舞蹈开始，一阵爵士乐响起。

‘We’re getting old,’ said Daisy. ‘If we were young we’d rise and dance.’
“我们正在变老，”黛西说。 “如果我们还年轻，我们就会站起来跳舞。”

‘Remember Biloxi,’ Jordan warned her. ‘Where’d you know him, Tom?’
“记住比洛克西，”乔丹警告她。 “你从哪里认识他的，汤姆？”

‘Biloxi?’ He concentrated with an effort. ‘I didn’t know him. He was a friend of Daisy’s.’
“比洛克西？”他努力集中注意力。 ‘我不认识他。他是黛西的朋友。

‘He was not,’ she denied. ‘I’d never seen him before. He came down in the private car.’
“他不是，”她否认道。 “我以前从没见过他。他是坐着私家车下来的。

‘Well, he said he knew you. He said he was raised in Louisville. Asa Bird brought him around at the last minute and asked if we had room for him.’
“嗯，他说他认识你。他说他在路易斯维尔长大。阿萨·伯德在最后一刻把他带过来，问我们是否有空间容纳他。

Jordan smiled.
乔丹笑了。

‘He was probably bumming his way home. He told me he was president of your class at Yale.’
“他可能正艰难地回家。他告诉我他是耶鲁大学你们班的班长。

Tom and I looked at each other blankly.
汤姆和我面面相觑。

‘BilOxi?’
“比尔奥西？”

‘First place, we didn’t have any president——‘
‘第一，我们没有总统——’

Gatsby’s foot beat a short, restless tattoo and Tom eyed him suddenly.
盖茨比的脚踩着一个短而不安的纹身，汤姆突然看着他。

‘By the way, Mr. Gatsby, I understand you’re an Oxford man.’
“顺便说一句，盖茨比先生，我知道你是牛津人。”

‘Not exactly.’
'不完全是。'

‘Oh, yes, I understand you went to Oxford.’
“哦，是的，我知道你去了牛津。”

‘Yes—I went there.’
“是的——我去过那里。”

A pause. Then Tom’s voice, incredulous and insulting:
停顿一下。然后是汤姆的声音，充满怀疑和侮辱：

‘You must have gone there about the time Biloxi went to New Haven.’
“你一定是在比洛克西去纽黑文的时候去过那里的。”

Another pause. A waiter knocked and came in with crushed mint and ice but the silence was unbroken by his ‘Thank you’ and the soft closing of the door. This tremendous detail was to be cleared up at last.
又是一次停顿。一名服务员敲了敲门，端着碎薄荷和冰块走了进来，但他的“谢谢”和轻轻关上门的声音并没有打破沉默。这个巨大的细节终于要弄清楚了。

‘I told you I went there,’ said Gatsby.
“我告诉过你我去过那里，”盖茨比说。

‘I heard you, but I’d like to know when.’
“我听到了，但我想知道什么时候。”

‘It was in nineteen-nineteen, I only stayed five months. That’s why I can’t really call myself an Oxford man.’
“当时是十九点十九分，我只呆了五个月。这就是为什么我不能真正称自己是牛津人。

Tom glanced around to see if we mirrored his unbelief. But we were all looking at Gatsby.
汤姆环顾四周，看看我们是否也反映了他的不信。但我们都在看着盖茨比。

‘It was an opportunity they gave to some of the officers after the Armistice,’ he continued. ‘We could go to any of the universities in England or France.’
“这是停战后他们给一些军官的机会，”他继续说道。 “我们可以去英国或法国的任何一所大学。”

I wanted to get up and slap him on the back. I had one of those renewals of complete faith in him that I’d experienced before.
我想站起来拍拍他的背。我对他重新产生了完全的信心，就像我以前经历过的那样。

Daisy rose, smiling faintly, and went to the table.
黛西站起身来，淡淡一笑，走到桌边。

‘Open the whiskey, Tom,’ she ordered. ‘And I’ll make you a mint julep. Then you won’t seem so stupid to yourself…. Look at the mint!’
“打开威士忌，汤姆，”她命令道。 “我会给你泡一杯薄荷冰镇啤酒。那么你自己就不会显得那么愚蠢了......看看薄荷！’

‘Wait a minute,’ snapped Tom, ‘I want to ask Mr. Gatsby one more question.’
“等一下，”汤姆厉声说道，“我想再问盖茨比先生一个问题。”

‘Go on,’ Gatsby said politely.
“继续吧，”盖茨比礼貌地说。

‘What kind of a row are you trying to cause in my house anyhow?’
“你究竟想在我家里引起什么样的争吵？”

They were out in the open at last and Gatsby was content.
他们终于公开了，盖茨比很满意。

‘He isn’t causing a row.’ Daisy looked desperately from one to the other. ‘You’re causing a row. Please have a little self control.’
“他没有引起争吵。”黛西绝望地看着一个又一个。 ‘你引起了一场争吵。请有点自控力。

‘Self control!’ repeated Tom incredulously. ‘I suppose the latest thing is to sit back and let Mr. Nobody from Nowhere make love to your wife. Well, if that’s the idea you can count me out…. Nowadays people begin by sneering at family life and family institutions and next they’ll throw everything overboard and have intermarriage between black and white.’
“自我控制！”汤姆难以置信地重复道。 “我想最新的事情就是坐下来，让无名先生与你的妻子做爱。好吧，如果那是你的想法，你就可以把我排除在外了……如今，人们一开始嘲笑家庭生活和家庭制度，然后他们就会抛弃一切，进行黑人和白人的通婚。”

Flushed with his impassioned gibberish he saw himself standing alone on the last barrier of civilization.
他的慷慨激昂的胡言乱语让他满脸通红，他看到自己独自站在文明的最后一道屏障上。

‘We’re all white here,’ murmured Jordan.
“我们这里都是白人，”乔丹低声说道。

‘I know I’m not very popular. I don’t give big parties. I suppose you’ve got to make your house into a pigsty in order to have any friends—in the modern world.’
“我知道我不太受欢迎。我不举办大型聚会。我想在现代世界，你必须把你的房子变成猪圈才能有朋友。

Angry as I was, as we all were, I was tempted to laugh whenever he opened his mouth. The transition from libertine to prig was so complete.
尽管我和我们都很生气，但只要他一开口，我就忍不住想笑。从浪荡子到一本正经的转变就这样完成了。

‘I’ve got something to tell YOU, old sport,——’ began Gatsby. But Daisy guessed at his intention.
“我有件事要告诉你，老伙计——”盖茨比开始说道。但黛西猜到了他的意图。

‘Please don’t!’ she interrupted helplessly. ‘Please let’s all go home. Why don’t we all go home?’
“请不要！”她无助地打断道。 ‘请让我们都回家吧。我们为什么不回家呢？

‘That’s a good idea.’ I got up. ‘Come on, Tom. Nobody wants a drink.’
“这是个好主意。”我站了起来。 ‘来吧，汤姆。没人想喝酒。

‘I want to know what Mr. Gatsby has to tell me.’
“我想知道盖茨比先生要告诉我什么。”

‘Your wife doesn’t love you,’ said Gatsby. ‘She’s never loved you. She loves me.’
盖茨比说：“你的妻子不爱你。” ‘她从来没有爱过你。她爱我。'

‘You must be crazy!’ exclaimed Tom automatically.
“你一定是疯了！”汤姆不自觉地喊道。

Gatsby sprang to his feet, vivid with excitement.
盖茨比跳了起来，兴奋极了。

‘She never loved you, do you hear?’ he cried. ‘She only married you because I was poor and she was tired of waiting for me. It was a terrible mistake, but in her heart she never loved any one except me!’
“她从来没有爱过你，你听到了吗？”他喊道。 ‘她嫁给你只是因为我很穷，而且她厌倦了等我。这是一个可怕的错误，但在她心里，除了我，她从来没有爱过任何人！

At this point Jordan and I tried to go but Tom and Gatsby insisted with competitive firmness that we remain—as though neither of them had anything to conceal and it would be a privilege to partake vicariously of their emotions.
此时，乔丹和我试图离开，但汤姆和盖茨比以竞争的坚定态度坚持我们留下来——就好像他们俩都没有什么可隐瞒的，能够代替他们的情绪分享是一种荣幸。

‘Sit down Daisy.’ Tom’s voice groped unsuccessfully for the paternal note. ‘What’s been going on? I want to hear all about it.’
“坐下，黛西。”汤姆的声音未能找到父亲般的语气。 ‘发生了什么事？我想听听这一切。

‘I told you what’s been going on,’ said Gatsby. ‘Going on for five years—and you didn’t know.’
“我告诉过你发生了什么事，”盖茨比说。 “已经持续五年了——而你却不知道。”

Tom turned to Daisy sharply.
汤姆猛地转向黛西。

‘You’ve been seeing this fellow for five years?’
“你和这个家伙交往五年了？”

‘Not seeing,’ said Gatsby. ‘No, we couldn’t meet. But both of us loved each other all that time, old sport, and you didn’t know. I used to laugh sometimes—‘but there was no laughter in his eyes, ‘to think that you didn’t know.’
“没看见，”盖茨比说。 ‘不，我们不能见面。但我们俩一直都彼此相爱，老伙计，而你却不知道。我有时会笑——“但他的眼里没有笑意，‘以为你不知道’。”

‘Oh—that’s all.’ Tom tapped his thick fingers together like a clergyman and leaned back in his chair.
“哦——就这样了。”汤姆像牧师一样用粗大的手指敲击着，然后靠在椅子上。

‘You’re crazy!’ he exploded. ‘I can’t speak about what happened five years ago, because I didn’t know Daisy then—and I’ll be damned if I see how you got within a mile of her unless you brought the groceries to the back door. But all the rest of that’s a God Damned lie. Daisy loved me when she married me and she loves me now.’
“你疯了！”他爆发了。 “我不能谈论五年前发生的事情，因为那时我还不认识黛西——如果我看到你是如何走到离她不到一英里的地方的，除非你把杂货带到后门，否则我会被诅咒的。但其余的一切都是该死的谎言。黛西嫁给我时爱我，现在她也爱我。”

‘No,’ said Gatsby, shaking his head.
“不，”盖茨比摇摇头说。

‘She does, though. The trouble is that sometimes she gets foolish ideas in her head and doesn’t know what she’s doing.’ He nodded sagely. ‘And what’s more, I love Daisy too. Once in a while I go off on a spree and make a fool of myself, but I always come back, and in my heart I love her all the time.’
“不过她确实这么做了。问题是，有时她脑子里会出现一些愚蠢的想法，却不知道自己在做什么。”他明智地点点头。 “更重要的是，我也爱黛西。偶尔我会出去狂欢，出丑，但我总会回来，我心里一直爱着她。”

‘You’re revolting,’ said Daisy. She turned to me, and her voice, dropping an octave lower, filled the room with thrilling scorn: ‘Do you know why we left Chicago? I’m surprised that they didn’t treat you to the story of that little spree.’
“你很反感，”黛西说。她转向我，声音低了八度，充满了令人毛骨悚然的轻蔑：“你知道我们为什么离开芝加哥吗？”我很惊讶他们没有请你听那场小狂欢的故事。

Gatsby walked over and stood beside her.
盖茨比走过去，站在她身边。

‘Daisy, that’s all over now,’ he said earnestly. ‘It doesn’t matter any more. Just tell him the truth—that you never loved him—and it’s all wiped out forever.’
“黛西，现在一切都结束了，”他认真地说。 ‘这已经不重要了。只要告诉他真相——你从来没有爱过他——一切都会永远消失。

She looked at him blindly. ‘Why,—how could I love him—possibly?’
她茫然地看着他。 “为什么——我怎么可能爱他？”

‘You never loved him.’
“你从来没有爱过他。”

She hesitated. Her eyes fell on Jordan and me with a sort of appeal, as though she realized at last what she was doing—and as though she had never, all along, intended doing anything at all. But it was done now. It was too late.
她犹豫了。她的目光带着一种吸引力落在乔丹和我身上，仿佛她终于意识到自己在做什么——又好像她从来没有打算做任何事情。但现在已经完成了。已经太迟了。

‘I never loved him,’ she said, with perceptible reluctance.
“我从来没有爱过他，”她说道，语气中明显不情愿。

‘Not at Kapiolani?’ demanded Tom suddenly.
“不在卡皮欧拉尼？”汤姆突然问道。

‘No.’
'不。'

From the ballroom beneath, muffled and suffocating chords were drifting up on hot waves of air.
从下面的舞厅里，低沉而令人窒息的和弦随着热浪飘上来。

‘Not that day I carried you down from the Punch Bowl to keep your shoes dry?’ There was a husky tenderness in his tone. ‘… Daisy?’
“不是那天我把你从潘趣酒馆抱下来让你的鞋子保持干燥吗？”他的语气里带着沙哑的温柔。 '… 雏菊？'

‘Please don’t.’ Her voice was cold, but the rancour was gone from it. She looked at Gatsby. ‘There, Jay,’ she said—but her hand as she tried to light a cigarette was trembling. Suddenly she threw the cigarette and the burning match on the carpet.
“请不要。”她的声音很冷，但怨恨却消失了。她看着盖茨比。 “好了，杰伊，”她说，但当她试图点燃香烟时，她的手在颤抖。突然，她把香烟和燃烧的火柴扔到了地毯上。

‘Oh, you want too much!’ she cried to Gatsby. ‘I love you now—isn’t that enough? I can’t help what’s past.’ She began to sob helplessly. ‘I did love him once—but I loved you too.’
“噢，你想要的太多了！”她对盖茨比喊道。 “我现在爱你——这还不够吗？”我无法控制过去的事情。”她开始无助地抽泣。 “我曾经爱过他——但我也爱过你。”

Gatsby’s eyes opened and closed.
盖茨比的眼睛睁开又闭上。

‘You loved me TOO?’ he repeated.
“你也爱我？”他重复道。

‘Even that’s a lie,’ said Tom savagely. ‘She didn’t know you were alive. Why,—there’re things between Daisy and me that you’ll never know, things that neither of us can ever forget.’
“连那也是谎言。”汤姆粗暴地说。 “她不知道你还活着。为什么——黛西和我之间有一些你永远不会知道的事情，我们都永远无法忘记的事情。

The words seemed to bite physically into Gatsby.
这句话似乎深深地刺痛了盖茨比的身体。

‘I want to speak to Daisy alone,’ he insisted. ‘She’s all excited now——‘
“我想单独和黛西谈谈，”他坚持说。 “她现在很兴奋——”

‘Even alone I can’t say I never loved Tom,’ she admitted in a pitiful voice. ‘It wouldn’t be true.’
“即使是独自一人，我也不能说我从来没有爱过汤姆，”她用可怜的声音承认。 “这不是真的。”

‘Of course it wouldn’t,’ agreed Tom.
“当然不会，”汤姆同意道。

She turned to her husband.
她转向她的丈夫。

‘As if it mattered to you,’ she said.
“好像这对你来说很重要，”她说。

‘Of course it matters. I’m going to take better care of you from now on.’
‘当然重要。从现在开始，我会更好地照顾你。”

‘You don’t understand,’ said Gatsby, with a touch of panic. ‘You’re not going to take care of her any more.’
“你不明白，”盖茨比带着一丝惊慌说道。 “你不会再照顾她了。”

‘I’m not?’ Tom opened his eyes wide and laughed. He could afford to control himself now. ‘Why’s that?’
“我不是？”汤姆睁大眼睛笑道。他现在可以控制自己了。 '为什么？'

‘Daisy’s leaving you.’
“黛西要离开你了。”

‘Nonsense.’
'废话。'

‘I am, though,’ she said with a visible effort.
“不过我是，”她明显很努力地说。

‘She’s not leaving me!’ Tom’s words suddenly leaned down over Gatsby. ‘Certainly not for a common swindler who’d have to steal the ring he put on her finger.’
“她不会离开我！”汤姆的话突然俯身向盖茨比说道。 “当然不是一个普通的骗子，他必须偷走他戴在她手指上的戒指。”

‘I won’t stand this!’ cried Daisy. ‘Oh, please let’s get out.’
“我受不了！”黛西叫道。 “哦，请我们出去吧。”

‘Who are you, anyhow?’ broke out Tom. ‘You’re one of that bunch that hangs around with Meyer Wolfshiem—that much I happen to know. I’ve made a little investigation into your affairs—and I’ll carry it further tomorrow.’
“你到底是谁？”汤姆突然问道。 “你是与迈耶·沃尔夫山姆在一起的那群人之一——我碰巧知道这一点。我对你的事情做了一些调查——明天我会进一步调查。

‘You can suit yourself about that, old sport.’ said Gatsby steadily.
“你可以随心所欲，老伙计。”盖茨比坚定地说。

‘I found out what your ‘drug stores’ were.’ He turned to us and spoke rapidly. ‘He and this Wolfshiem bought up a lot of side-street drug stores here and in Chicago and sold grain alcohol over the counter. That’s one of his little stunts. I picked him for a bootlegger the first time I saw him and I wasn’t far wrong.’
“我查出了你们的‘药店’是什么。”他转向我们，语速很快。 “他和这个沃尔夫希姆买下了这里和芝加哥的许多街边药店，并在柜台上出售谷物酒精。这是他的小绝技之一。我第一次见到他时就认定他是走私犯，我的判断并没有错太多。

‘What about it?’ said Gatsby politely. ‘I guess your friend Walter Chase wasn’t too proud to come in on it.’
“那又怎么样？”盖茨比礼貌地说。 “我猜你的朋友沃尔特·蔡斯并没有太骄傲而不敢参与其中。”

‘And you left him in the lurch, didn’t you? You let him go to jail for a month over in New Jersey. God! You ought to hear Walter on the subject of YOU.’
‘然后你就让他陷入困境，不是吗？你让他在新泽西州坐牢一个月了上帝！你应该听听沃尔特关于你的话题。

‘He came to us dead broke. He was very glad to pick up some money, old sport.’
“他来到我们这里时身无分文。他很高兴能拿到一些钱，老兄。

‘Don’t you call me ‘old sport’!’ cried Tom. Gatsby said nothing. ‘Walter could have you up on the betting laws too, but Wolfshiem scared him into shutting his mouth.’
“你别叫我‘老伙计’！”汤姆喊道。盖茨比什么也没说。 “沃尔特也可以让你遵守博彩法，但沃尔夫希姆吓得他闭嘴了。”

That unfamiliar yet recognizable look was back again in Gatsby’s face.
盖茨比脸上再次出现了那种陌生而又熟悉的表情。

‘That drug store business was just small change,’ continued Tom slowly, ‘but you’ve got something on now that Walter’s afraid to tell me about.’
“那家药店的生意只是小钱，”汤姆慢慢地继续说，“但你现在有一些事情，沃尔特不敢告诉我。”

I glanced at Daisy who was staring terrified between Gatsby and her husband and at Jordan who had begun to balance an invisible but absorbing object on the tip of her chin. Then I turned back to Gatsby—and was startled at his expression. He looked—and this is said in all contempt for the babbled slander of his garden—as if he had ‘killed a man.’ For a moment the set of his face could be described in just that fantastic way.
我看了一眼黛西，她惊恐地注视着盖茨比和她的丈夫，又看了一眼乔丹，她开始平衡下巴尖上一个看不见但吸引人的物体。然后我转回盖茨比——并对他的表情感到惊讶。他看起来——这是对他花园里的喋喋不休的诽谤的蔑视——就好像他“杀了一个人”。有那么一刻，他的表情可以用那种奇妙的方式来形容。

It passed, and he began to talk excitedly to Daisy, denying everything, defending his name against accusations that had not been made. But with every word she was drawing further and further into herself, so he gave that up and only the dead dream fought on as the afternoon slipped away, trying to touch what was no longer tangible, struggling unhappily, undespairingly, toward that lost voice across the room.
一切过去了，他开始兴奋地与黛西交谈，否认一切，为自己的名誉辩护，反对尚未提出的指控。但随着每一个字，她都越来越深入自己，所以他放弃了，只有死去的梦在下午溜走时继续战斗，试图触及不再有形的东西，不快乐地、不绝望地挣扎着，走向那迷失的声音。房间。

The voice begged again to go.
那声音再次恳求走开。

‘PLEASE, Tom! I can’t stand this any more.’
“求你了，汤姆！我再也受不了了。

Her frightened eyes told that whatever intentions, whatever courage she had had, were definitely gone.
她惊恐的眼神告诉她，无论她有什么意图，无论她有什么勇气，都已经消失了。

‘You two start on home, Daisy,’ said Tom. ‘In Mr. Gatsby’s car.’
“你们两个开始回家吧，黛西，”汤姆说。 “在盖茨比先生的车里。”

She looked at Tom, alarmed now, but he insisted with magnanimous scorn.
她看着汤姆，现在很惊慌，但他仍以宽宏的轻蔑态度坚持说。

‘Go on. He won’t annoy you. I think he realizes that his presumptuous little flirtation is over.’
'继续。他不会惹恼你。我想他意识到他放肆的小调情已经结束了。

They were gone, without a word, snapped out, made accidental, isolated, like ghosts even from our pity.
他们一言不发地消失了，突然消失了，变得偶然，孤立，甚至因为我们的怜悯而像鬼魂一样。

After a moment Tom got up and began wrapping the unopened bottle of whiskey in the towel.
过了一会儿，汤姆站起来，开始用毛巾包住那瓶未开封的威士忌。

‘Want any of this stuff? Jordan? … Nick?’
‘想要这些东西吗？约旦？ ……尼克？

I didn’t answer.
我没有回答。

‘Nick?’ He asked again.
“尼克？”他又问。

‘What?’
'什么？'

‘Want any?’
“想要吗？”

‘No … I just remembered that today’s my birthday.’
“没有……我只是想起来今天是我的生日。”

I was thirty. Before me stretched the portentous menacing road of a new decade.
我三十岁了。在我面前展开了新十年的危险道路。

It was seven o’clock when we got into the coupé with him and started for Long Island. Tom talked incessantly, exulting and laughing, but his voice was as remote from Jordan and me as the foreign clamor on the sidewalk or the tumult of the elevated overhead. Human sympathy has its limits and we were content to let all their tragic arguments fade with the city lights behind. Thirty—the promise of a decade of loneliness, a thinning list of single men to know, a thinning brief-case of enthusiasm, thinning hair. But there was Jordan beside me who, unlike Daisy, was too wise ever to carry well-forgotten dreams from age to age. As we passed over the dark bridge her wan face fell lazily against my coat’s shoulder and the formidable stroke of thirty died away with the reassuring pressure of her hand.
当我们和他一起坐上双门轿车出发前往长岛时，已经是七点钟了。汤姆不停地说话，欢欣鼓舞，大笑着，但他的声音对乔丹和我来说就像人行道上的外国喧嚣或高架头顶上的喧闹一样遥远。人类的同情心是有限度的，我们满足于让他们所有的悲惨争论随着城市灯光的消失而消失。三十——十年孤独的承诺，认识的单身男人的名单越来越少，热情的公文包越来越少，头发也越来越稀疏。但我身边有乔丹，与黛西不同的是，他太聪明了，不会一代又一代地怀揣着早已被遗忘的梦想。当我们经过黑暗的桥时，她苍白的脸懒洋洋地靠在我外套的肩膀上，三十岁的可怕打击随着她手上令人放心的压力而消失。

So we drove on toward death through the cooling twilight.
于是我们在凉爽的暮色中驶向死亡。

The young Greek, Michaelis, who ran the coffee joint beside the ashheaps was the principal witness at the inquest. He had slept through the heat until after five, when he strolled over to the garage and found George Wilson sick in his office—really sick, pale as his own pale hair and shaking all over. Michaelis advised him to go to bed but Wilson refused, saying that he’d miss a lot of business if he did. While his neighbor was trying to persuade him a violent racket broke out overhead.
年轻的希腊人米凯利斯（Michaelis）在灰堆旁边经营一家咖啡店，他是这次审讯的主要证人。他在炎热的天气里一直睡到五点多，这时他漫步到车库，发现乔治·威尔逊在他的办公室里生病了——病得很厉害，脸色苍白得像他自己苍白的头发一样，浑身发抖。米凯利斯建议他去睡觉，但威尔逊拒绝了，并说如果这样做他会错过很多生意。当他的邻居试图说服他时，头顶上突然响起了剧烈的喧闹声。

‘I’ve got my wife locked in up there,’ explained Wilson calmly. ‘She’s going to stay there till the day after tomorrow and then we’re going to move away.’
“我把我的妻子锁在那里了，”威尔逊平静地解释道。 “她会在那里呆到后天，然后我们就搬走。”

Michaelis was astonished; they had been neighbors for four years and Wilson had never seemed faintly capable of such a statement. Generally he was one of these worn-out men: when he wasn’t working he sat on a chair in the doorway and stared at the people and the cars that passed along the road. When any one spoke to him he invariably laughed in an agreeable, colorless way. He was his wife’s man and not his own.
米凯利斯吃了一惊。他们已经做了四年邻居了，威尔逊似乎从来没有能力说出这样的话。一般来说，他就是这些疲惫不堪的人之一：不工作的时候，他坐在门口的椅子上，盯着路上经过的人和汽车。当有人跟他说话时，他总是以一种令人愉快、平淡的方式笑起来。他是他妻子的男人，而不是他自己的男人。

So naturally Michaelis tried to find out what had happened, but Wilson wouldn’t say a word—instead he began to throw curious, suspicious glances at his visitor and ask him what he’d been doing at certain times on certain days. Just as the latter was getting uneasy some workmen came past the door bound for his restaurant and Michaelis took the opportunity to get away, intending to come back later. But he didn’t. He supposed he forgot to, that’s all. When he came outside again a little after seven he was reminded of the conversation because he heard Mrs. Wilson’s voice, loud and scolding, downstairs in the garage.
因此，米凯利斯很自然地试图弄清楚发生了什么事，但威尔逊一言不发——相反，他开始向来访者投来好奇、怀疑的目光，并询问他在某些日子的某些时间做了什么。正当后者感到不安时，一些工人从门口走过来，准备前往他的餐厅，米凯利斯趁机离开，打算稍后再回来。但他没有。他以为他忘记了，仅此而已。七点刚过，当他再次出门时，他想起了那次谈话，因为他听到楼下车库里传来威尔逊太太大声责骂的声音。

‘Beat me!’ he heard her cry. ‘Throw me down and beat me, you dirty little coward!’
“打败我！”他听到她喊道。 “把我扔下去，打我，你这个肮脏的小胆小鬼！”

A moment later she rushed out into the dusk, waving her hands and shouting; before he could move from his door the business was over.
过了一会儿，她冲进暮色中，挥舞着双手，大喊道：在他走出家门之前，事情就结束了。

The ‘death car’ as the newspapers called it, didn’t stop; it came out of the gathering darkness, wavered tragically for a moment and then disappeared around the next bend. Michaelis wasn’t even sure of its color—he told the first policeman that it was light green. The other car, the one going toward New York, came to rest a hundred yards beyond, and its driver hurried back to where Myrtle Wilson, her life violently extinguished, knelt in the road and mingled her thick, dark blood with the dust.
报纸所称的“死亡汽车”并没有停下来；它从渐浓的黑暗中走出来，悲惨地摇晃了一会儿，然后在下一个拐角处消失了。米凯利斯甚至不确定它的颜色——他告诉第一位警察，它是浅绿色的。另一辆车，那辆开往纽约的车，停在一百码外，司机匆匆赶回默特尔·威尔逊，她的生命被猛烈地熄灭了，她跪在路上，浓浓的黑色血液与灰尘混在一起。

Michaelis and this man reached her first but when they had torn open her shirtwaist still damp with perspiration, they saw that her left breast was swinging loose like a flap and there was no need to listen for the heart beneath. The mouth was wide open and ripped at the corners as though she had choked a little in giving up the tremendous vitality she had stored so long.
米凯利斯和这个男人先到了她身边，但当他们撕开她仍被汗水浸湿的衬衫腰部时，他们看到她的左胸像襟翼一样松散地摆动着，无需倾听下面的心脏。她的嘴张得大大的，嘴角撕裂，仿佛她因放弃了储存已久的巨大活力而感到有点窒息。

We saw the three or four automobiles and the crowd when we were still some distance away.
离我们还有一段距离的时候，我们就看到了三四辆汽车和人群。

‘Wreck!’ said Tom. ‘That’s good. Wilson’ll have a little business at last.’
“毁了！”汤姆说。 '那挺好的。威尔逊终于有一点生意了。

He slowed down, but still without any intention of stopping until, as we came nearer, the hushed intent faces of the people at the garage door made him automatically put on the brakes.
他放慢了速度，但仍然没有停下来的意思，直到我们走近时，车库门口人们安静专注的面孔让他自动踩下了刹车。

‘We’ll take a look,’ he said doubtfully, ‘just a look.’
“我们会看看，”他怀疑地说，“只是看看。”

I became aware now of a hollow, wailing sound which issued incessantly from the garage, a sound which as we got out of the coupé and walked toward the door resolved itself into the words ‘Oh, my God!’ uttered over and over in a gasping moan.
我现在意识到车库里不断发出空洞的哀嚎声，当我们下了轿跑车走向门口时，这种声音最终变成了“哦，我的上帝！”一遍又一遍地用嘶哑的声音说着。气喘吁吁的呻吟。

‘There’s some bad trouble here,’ said Tom excitedly.
“这里出了大麻烦了，”汤姆兴奋地说。

He reached up on tiptoes and peered over a circle of heads into the garage which was lit only by a yellow light in a swinging wire basket overhead. Then he made a harsh sound in his throat and with a violent thrusting movement of his powerful arms pushed his way through.
他踮起脚尖，越过一圈人头往车库里看去，车库里只有头顶上一个摆动的铁丝篮里的黄灯照亮。然后他喉咙里发出一声刺耳的声音，用他有力的手臂猛烈地推挤，挤了进去。

The circle closed up again with a running murmur of expostulation; it was a minute before I could see anything at all. Then new arrivals disarranged the line and Jordan and I were pushed suddenly inside.
圈子再次围拢过来，一片规劝的低声议论声此起彼伏。一分钟后我才看清任何东西。然后新来的人打乱了队伍，乔丹和我突然被推了进去。

Myrtle Wilson’s body wrapped in a blanket and then in another blanket as though she suffered from a chill in the hot night lay on a work table by the wall and Tom, with his back to us, was bending over it, motionless. Next to him stood a motorcycle policeman taking down names with much sweat and correction in a little book. At first I couldn’t find the source of the high, groaning words that echoed clamorously through the bare garage—then I saw Wilson standing on the raised threshold of his office, swaying back and forth and holding to the doorposts with both hands. Some man was talking to him in a low voice and attempting from time to time to lay a hand on his shoulder, but Wilson neither heard nor saw. His eyes would drop slowly from the swinging light to the laden table by the wall and then jerk back to the light again and he gave out incessantly his high horrible call.
默特尔·威尔逊的尸体裹着一条毯子，又裹着另一条毯子，躺在靠墙的工作台上，仿佛在炎热的夜晚感到寒冷，汤姆背对着我们，弯着身子一动不动。旁边站着一名摩托警察，用汗水把名字记在小本子上并加以修正。起初我找不到那些在空荡荡的车库里大声回响的高亢、呻吟的话语的来源——然后我看到威尔逊站在他办公室升高的门槛上，前后摇晃着，双手抓住门柱。有人正在低声与他说话，并时不时地试图把手放在他的肩膀上，但威尔逊既没有听到也没有看到。他的目光会慢慢地从摇曳的灯光落到墙边那张摆满东西的桌子上，然后又猛地回到灯光上，不断地发出可怕的高声叫声。

‘O, my Ga-od! O, my Ga-od! Oh, Ga-od! Oh, my Ga-od!’
‘噢，我的加奥德！噢，我的加奥！哦，嘎——哦！哦，我的天哪！

Presently Tom lifted his head with a jerk and after staring around the garage with glazed eyes addressed a mumbled incoherent remark to the policeman.
不久，汤姆猛地抬起头，目光呆滞地环视车库四周，对警察含糊不清地说了一句语无伦次的话。

‘M-a-v—’ the policeman was saying, ‘—o——‘
“M-a-v——”警察说，“——o——”

‘No,—r—’ corrected the man, ‘M-a-v-r-o——‘
“不，——r——”男人纠正道，“M-a-v-r-o——”

‘Listen to me!’ muttered Tom fiercely.
“听我说！”汤姆恶狠狠地嘀咕道。

‘r—’ said the policeman, ‘o——‘
“r——”警察说，“o——”

‘g——‘
'G - '

‘g—’ He looked up as Tom’s broad hand fell sharply on his shoulder. ‘What you want, fella?’
“g——”当汤姆宽大的手猛地落在他的肩膀上时，他抬起头来。 “你想要什么，伙计？”

‘What happened—that’s what I want to know!’
“发生了什么事——这就是我想知道的！”

‘Auto hit her. Ins’antly killed.’
‘自动打了她。瞬间被杀了。

‘Instantly killed,’ repeated Tom, staring.
“立即被杀，”汤姆盯着看，重复道。

‘She ran out ina road. Son-of-a-bitch didn’t even stopus car.’
“她跑到一条路上。这个王八蛋甚至没有停下车。

‘There was two cars,’ said Michaelis, ‘one comin’, one goin’, see?’
“有两辆车，”米凯利斯说，“一辆来，一辆去，明白吗？”

‘Going where?’ asked the policeman keenly.
“去哪里？”警察敏锐地问道。

‘One goin’ each way. Well, she—’ His hand rose toward the blankets but stopped half way and fell to his side, ‘—she ran out there an’ the one comin’ from N’York knock right into her goin’ thirty or forty miles an hour.’
每条路“一走”。好吧，她——”他的手伸向毯子，但中途停了下来，倒在了他的身边，“——她跑了出去，从纽约来的车直接撞到了她，车速是每小时三十或四十英里。 '

‘What’s the name of this place here?’ demanded the officer.
“这个地方叫什么名字？”军官问道。

‘Hasn’t got any name.’
“没有名字。”

A pale, well-dressed Negro stepped near.
一个面色苍白、衣着考究的黑人走了过来。

‘It was a yellow car,’ he said, ‘big yellow car. New.’
“那是一辆黄色的车，”他说，“黄色的大车。”新的。'

‘See the accident?’ asked the policeman.
“看到事故了吗？”警察问道。

‘No, but the car passed me down the road, going faster’n forty. Going fifty, sixty.’
“不，但是那辆车在路上从我身边驶过，速度快了四十英里。”快五十、六十了。”

‘Come here and let’s have your name. Look out now. I want to get his name.’
‘过来，让我们知道你的名字。现在要小心了。我想知道他的名字。

Some words of this conversation must have reached Wilson swaying in the office door, for suddenly a new theme found voice among his gasping cries.
威尔逊在办公室门口摇摇晃晃，肯定听到了谈话中的一些话，因为突然间，他气喘吁吁的叫喊声中出现了一个新的主题。

‘You don’t have to tell me what kind of car it was! I know what kind of car it was!’
“你不必告诉我那是什么车！我知道那是什么车！

Watching Tom I saw the wad of muscle back of his shoulder tighten under his coat. He walked quickly over to Wilson and standing in front of him seized him firmly by the upper arms.
看着汤姆，我看到他肩膀后面的一团肌肉在他的外套下绷紧了。他快步走到威尔逊身边，站在他面前，紧紧抓住他的上臂。

‘You’ve got to pull yourself together,’ he said with soothing gruffness.
“你必须振作起来，”他粗声粗气地说道。

Wilson’s eyes fell upon Tom; he started up on his tiptoes and then would have collapsed to his knees had not Tom held him upright.
威尔逊的目光落在汤姆身上。他踮起脚尖，如果不是汤姆把他扶起来，他就会跪倒在地。

‘Listen,’ said Tom, shaking him a little. ‘I just got here a minute ago, from New York. I was bringing you that coupé we’ve been talking about. That yellow car I was driving this afternoon wasn’t mine, do you hear? I haven’t seen it all afternoon.’
“听着，”汤姆轻轻摇晃着他说道。 “我一分钟前刚从纽约来到这里。我给你带来了我们一直在谈论的那辆轿跑车。今天下午我开的那辆黄色汽车不是我的，你听到了吗？我整个下午都没有看到它。

Only the Negro and I were near enough to hear what he said but the policeman caught something in the tone and looked over with truculent eyes.
只有黑人和我离得很近，能听到他说的话，但警察听出了语气中的什么东西，用凶狠的眼神看了过来。

‘What’s all that?’ he demanded.
“那是什么？”他问道。

‘I’m a friend of his.’ Tom turned his head but kept his hands firm on Wilson’s body. ‘He says he knows the car that did it…. It was a yellow car.’
“我是他的朋友。”汤姆转过头，但双手仍牢牢地放在威尔逊的身上。 “他说他认识那辆车……”那是一辆黄色的汽车。

Some dim impulse moved the policeman to look suspiciously at Tom.
警察有些隐约的冲动，怀疑地看着汤姆。

‘And what color’s your car?’
“你的车是什么颜色的？”

‘It’s a blue car, a coupé.’
“这是一辆蓝色的汽车，一辆轿跑车。”

‘We’ve come straight from New York,’ I said.
“我们是直接从纽约来的，”我说。

Some one who had been driving a little behind us confirmed this and the policeman turned away.
一个开车在我们后面不远的人证实了这一点，警察转过身去。

‘Now, if you’ll let me have that name again correct——‘
“现在，如果你能让我再次纠正这个名字的话——”

Picking up Wilson like a doll Tom carried him into the office, set him down in a chair and came back.
汤姆像个洋娃娃一样抱起威尔逊，把他抱进办公室，把他放在椅子上，然后又回来了。

‘If somebody’ll come here and sit with him!’ he snapped authoritatively. He watched while the two men standing closest glanced at each other and went unwillingly into the room. Then Tom shut the door on them and came down the single step, his eyes avoiding the table. As he passed close to me he whispered ‘Let’s get out.’
“如果有人能来这里和他坐在一起就好了！”他权威地厉声说道。他看着站得最近的两个人对视一眼，不情愿地走进了房间。然后汤姆关上门，走下一级台阶，眼睛避开桌子。当他靠近我时，他低声说道：“我们出去吧。”

Self consciously, with his authoritative arms breaking the way, we pushed through the still gathering crowd, passing a hurried doctor, case in hand, who had been sent for in wild hope half an hour ago.
我们自觉地用他权威的手臂挡开路，穿过仍在聚集的人群，经过一位匆匆忙忙的医生，他手里拿着箱子，他是半小时前满怀希望地被派来的。

Tom drove slowly until we were beyond the bend—then his foot came down hard and the coupé raced along through the night. In a little while I heard a low husky sob and saw that the tears were overflowing down his face.
汤姆慢慢地开着车，直到我们过了弯道——然后他的脚重重地踩了下来，双门轿车在夜色中疾驰。过了一会儿，我听到一声低沉的抽​​泣声，看到泪水从他的脸上流了下来。

‘The God Damn coward!’ he whimpered. ‘He didn’t even stop his car.’
“该死的胆小鬼！”他呜咽道。 “他甚至没有停车。”

The Buchanans’ house floated suddenly toward us through the dark rustling trees. Tom stopped beside the porch and looked up at the second floor where two windows bloomed with light among the vines.
布坎南家的房子突然在沙沙作响的黑暗树林中飘向我们。汤姆在门廊旁停下来，抬头看着二楼，两扇窗户在藤蔓丛中绽放出光芒。

‘Daisy’s home,’ he said. As we got out of the car he glanced at me and frowned slightly.
“黛西回家了，”他说。当我们下车时，他看了我一眼，微微皱起了眉头。

‘I ought to have dropped you in West Egg, Nick. There’s nothing we can do tonight.’
“我应该把你送到西埃格，尼克。今晚我们无能为力。”

A change had come over him and he spoke gravely, and with decision. As we walked across the moonlight gravel to the porch he disposed of the situation in a few brisk phrases.
他身上发生了变化，他说话严肃而坚决。当我们穿过月光下的碎石路走到门廊时，他用几句话轻快地解决了这个问题。

‘I’ll telephone for a taxi to take you home, and while you’re waiting you and Jordan better go in the kitchen and have them get you some supper—if you want any.’ He opened the door. ‘Come in.’
“我会打电话叫一辆出租车送你回家，在你等的时候，你和乔丹最好去厨房让他们给你弄点晚饭——如果你想要的话。”他打开了门。 '进来。'

‘No thanks. But I’d be glad if you’d order me the taxi. I’ll wait outside.’
'不，谢谢。但如果您能为我叫出租车，我会很高兴。我会在外面等。

Jordan put her hand on my arm.
乔丹把手放在我的胳膊上。

‘Won’t you come in, Nick?’
“尼克，你不进来吗？”

‘No thanks.’
'不，谢谢。'

I was feeling a little sick and I wanted to be alone. But Jordan lingered for a moment more.
我感觉有点不舒服，我想一个人呆着。但乔丹又犹豫了一会儿。

‘It’s only half past nine,’ she said.
“现在才九点半，”她说。

I’d be damned if I’d go in; I’d had enough of all of them for one day and suddenly that included Jordan too. She must have seen something of this in my expression for she turned abruptly away and ran up the porch steps into the house. I sat down for a few minutes with my head in my hands, until I heard the phone taken up inside and the butler’s voice calling a taxi. Then I walked slowly down the drive away from the house intending to wait by the gate.
如果我进去的话我就该死了；我已经受够了他们所有人一天，突然间，乔丹也被包括在内了。她一定从我的表情中看出了这一点，因为她突然转过身，跑上门廊的台阶进了屋子。我双手抱头坐了几分钟，直到听到里面有人接电话，管家叫出租车的声音。然后我慢慢地沿着车道离开房子，打算在门口等着。

I hadn’t gone twenty yards when I heard my name and Gatsby stepped from between two bushes into the path. I must have felt pretty weird by that time because I could think of nothing except the luminosity of his pink suit under the moon.
我还没走出二十码，就听到了我的名字，盖茨比从两丛灌木之间走进了小路。那时我一定感觉很奇怪，因为除了他在月光下的粉红色西装的发光之外，我什么也想不起来。

‘What are you doing?’ I inquired.
“你在做什么？”我问道。

‘Just standing here, old sport.’
“就站在这里，老伙计。”

Somehow, that seemed a despicable occupation. For all I knew he was going to rob the house in a moment; I wouldn’t have been surprised to see sinister faces, the faces of ‘Wolfshiem’s people,’ behind him in the dark shrubbery.
不知何故，这似乎是一种卑鄙的职业。据我所知，他马上就要抢劫这所房子了；如果我在他身后黑暗的灌木丛中看到那些阴险的面孔，“沃尔夫希姆的人”的面孔，我不会感到惊讶。

‘Did you see any trouble on the road?’ he asked after a minute.
“你看到路上有什么麻烦吗？”过了一会儿他问道。

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

He hesitated.
他犹豫了。

‘Was she killed?’
“她被杀了吗？”

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘I thought so; I told Daisy I thought so. It’s better that the shock should all come at once. She stood it pretty well.’
'我是这么想的;我告诉黛西我是这么想的。最好是所有的震惊都同时发生。她很好地忍受了。

He spoke as if Daisy’s reaction was the only thing that mattered.
他说得好像黛西的反应是唯一重要的事情。

‘I got to West Egg by a side road,’ he went on, ‘and left the car in my garage. I don’t think anybody saw us but of course I can’t be sure.’
“我沿着一条小路到达西埃格，”他继续说道，“然后把车停在我的车库里。我认为没有人看到我们，但我当然不能确定。

I disliked him so much by this time that I didn’t find it necessary to tell him he was wrong.
此时我已经非常不喜欢他了，以至于我觉得没有必要告诉他他错了。

‘Who was the woman?’ he inquired.
“那个女人是谁？”他问道。

‘Her name was Wilson. Her husband owns the garage. How the devil did it happen?’
“她的名字叫威尔逊。她的丈夫拥有车库。这到底是怎么发生的？

‘Well, I tried to swing the wheel——’ He broke off, and suddenly I guessed at the truth.
“嗯，我试着转动方向盘——”他停住了，我突然猜到了真相。

‘Was Daisy driving?’
“黛西在开车吗？”

‘Yes,’ he said after a moment, ‘but of course I’ll say I was. You see, when we left New York she was very nervous and she thought it would steady her to drive—and this woman rushed out at us just as we were passing a car coming the other way. It all happened in a minute but it seemed to me that she wanted to speak to us, thought we were somebody she knew. Well, first Daisy turned away from the woman toward the other car, and then she lost her nerve and turned back. The second my hand reached the wheel I felt the shock—it must have killed her instantly.’
“是的，”过了一会儿他说道，“但我当然会说我是。”你看，当我们离开纽约时，她非常紧张，她认为开车会让她稳定下来——正当我们超车时，这个女人向我们冲了过来。这一切都发生在一分钟内，但在我看来，她想和我们说话，以为我们是她认识的人。好吧，黛西先是转身离开那个女人，转向另一辆车，然后她失去了勇气，又转了回来。当我的手到达方向盘时，我感到震惊——她一定立刻就死了。”

‘It ripped her open——‘
“它把她撕开了——”

‘Don’t tell me, old sport.’ He winced. ‘Anyhow—Daisy stepped on it. I tried to make her stop, but she couldn’t so I pulled on the emergency brake. Then she fell over into my lap and I drove on.
“别告诉我，老伙计。”他皱起眉头。 “无论如何——黛西踩到了它。我试图让她停下来，但她做不到，所以我拉了紧急刹车。然后她倒在我的腿上，我继续开车。

‘She’ll be all right tomorrow,’ he said presently. ‘I’m just going to wait here and see if he tries to bother her about that unpleasantness this afternoon. She’s locked herself into her room and if he tries any brutality she’s going to turn the light out and on again.’
“她明天就会好起来，”他很快说道。 “我只是要在这里等一下，看看他是否会因为今天下午的不愉快而打扰她。她把自己锁在房间里，如果他尝试任何残忍的行为，她就会把灯关掉再打开。”

‘He won’t touch her,’ I said. ‘He’s not thinking about her.’
“他不会碰她，”我说。 “他没有想她。”

‘I don’t trust him, old sport.’
“我不相信他，老伙计。”

‘How long are you going to wait?’
“你要等多久？”

‘All night if necessary. Anyhow till they all go to bed.’
“如果有必要的话，整晚都可以。”不管怎样，直到他们都上床睡觉为止。

A new point of view occurred to me. Suppose Tom found out that Daisy had been driving. He might think he saw a connection in it—he might think anything. I looked at the house: there were two or three bright windows downstairs and the pink glow from Daisy’s room on the second floor.
我想到了一个新的观点。假设汤姆发现黛西一直在开车。他可能认为他看到了其中的联系——他可能会想到任何事情。我看了看房子：楼下有两三扇明亮的窗户，二楼黛西的房间发出粉红色的光芒。

‘You wait here,’ I said. ‘I’ll see if there’s any sign of a commotion.’
“你在这儿等着，”我说。 “我去看看是否有骚动的迹象。”

I walked back along the border of the lawn, traversed the gravel softly and tiptoed up the veranda steps. The drawing-room curtains were open, and I saw that the room was empty. Crossing the porch where we had dined that June night three months before I came to a small rectangle of light which I guessed was the pantry window. The blind was drawn but I found a rift at the sill.
我沿着草坪的边缘往回走，轻轻地穿过碎石路，蹑手蹑脚地走上阳台的台阶。客厅的窗帘拉开，我看到房间里空无一人。三个月前的那个六月的晚上，穿过门廊，我来到了一个小长方形的灯光前，我猜那是食品储藏室的窗户。百叶窗已拉上，但我发现窗台上有一条裂痕。

Daisy and Tom were sitting opposite each other at the kitchen table with a plate of cold fried chicken between them and two bottles of ale. He was talking intently across the table at her and in his earnestness his hand had fallen upon and covered her own. Once in a while she looked up at him and nodded in agreement.
黛西和汤姆坐在厨房的桌子旁，中间放着一盘冷炸鸡和两瓶啤酒。他正隔着桌子专注地对她说话，他的手诚恳地落在她的手上，盖住了她的手。时不时地，她抬头看看他，点头表示同意。

They weren’t happy, and neither of them had touched the chicken or the ale—and yet they weren’t unhappy either. There was an unmistakable air of natural intimacy about the picture and anybody would have said that they were conspiring together.
他们不高兴，而且他们都没有碰鸡肉或麦芽酒——但他们也并不不高兴。这张照片明显有一种自然亲密的气氛，任何人都会说他们在一起密谋。

As I tiptoed from the porch I heard my taxi feeling its way along the dark road toward the house. Gatsby was waiting where I had left him in the drive.
当我蹑手蹑脚地从门廊走出来时，我听到出租车沿着黑暗的道路摸索着朝房子驶去。盖茨比正在车道上我离开他的地方等着。

‘Is it all quiet up there?’ he asked anxiously.
“上面很安静吗？”他焦急地问道。

‘Yes, it’s all quiet.’ I hesitated. ‘You’d better come home and get some sleep.’
“是的，很安静。”我犹豫了一下。 “你最好回家睡觉。”

He shook his head.
他摇摇头。

‘I want to wait here till Daisy goes to bed. Good night, old sport.’
“我想在这里等黛西睡觉。晚安，老兄。

He put his hands in his coat pockets and turned back eagerly to his scrutiny of the house, as though my presence marred the sacredness of the vigil. So I walked away and left him standing there in the moonlight—watching over nothing.
他把手插进外套口袋里，急切地转过身去审视房子，仿佛我的存在破坏了守夜活动的神圣性。于是我走开了，留下他站在月光下——什么也不看。

Chapter 8
第8章

I couldn’t sleep all night; a fog-horn was groaning incessantly on the Sound, and I tossed half-sick between grotesque reality and savage frightening dreams. Toward dawn I heard a taxi go up Gatsby’s drive and immediately I jumped out of bed and began to dress—I felt that I had something to tell him, something to warn him about and morning would be too late.
我整夜无法入睡；海湾上的雾号不断地呻吟着，我在怪诞的现实和野蛮可怕的梦境之间摇摆不定。黎明时分，我听到一辆出租车驶过盖茨比的车道，我立即从床上跳起来，开始穿衣服——我觉得我有话要告诉他，有话要警告他，但早上就太晚了。

Crossing his lawn I saw that his front door was still open and he was leaning against a table in the hall, heavy with dejection or sleep.
穿过他的草坪，我看到他的前门还开着，他靠在大厅的一张桌子上，表情沮丧或睡意浓重。

‘Nothing happened,’ he said wanly. ‘I waited, and about four o’clock she came to the window and stood there for a minute and then turned out the light.’
“什么都没发生，”他苍白地说。 “我等了一会儿，大约四点钟，她来到窗前，站了一分钟，然后关了灯。”

His house had never seemed so enormous to me as it did that night when we hunted through the great rooms for cigarettes. We pushed aside curtains that were like pavilions and felt over innumerable feet of dark wall for electric light switches—once I tumbled with a sort of splash upon the keys of a ghostly piano. There was an inexplicable amount of dust everywhere and the rooms were musty as though they hadn’t been aired for many days. I found the humidor on an unfamiliar table with two stale dry cigarettes inside. Throwing open the French windows of the drawing-room we sat smoking out into the darkness.
对我来说，他的房子从来没有像那天晚上我们在大房间里寻找香烟那样巨大。我们推开像凉亭一样的窗帘，在无数英尺深的黑暗墙壁上摸索电灯开关——有一次我摔倒了，溅到了一架幽灵钢琴的琴键上。到处都是莫名其妙的灰尘，房间里都发霉了，就像很多天没有通风一样。我在一张陌生的桌子上发现了雪茄盒，里面有两支陈旧的干香烟。打开客厅的落地窗，我们坐在外面的黑暗中抽烟。

‘You ought to go away,’ I said. ‘It’s pretty certain they’ll trace your car.’
“你应该走开，”我说。 “他们肯定会追踪你的车。”

‘Go away NOW, old sport?’
“现在走开吗，老伙计？”

‘Go to Atlantic City for a week, or up to Montreal.’
“去大西洋城一周，或者去蒙特利尔。”

He wouldn’t consider it. He couldn’t possibly leave Daisy until he knew what she was going to do. He was clutching at some last hope and I couldn’t bear to shake him free.
他不会考虑的。在知道黛西要做什么之前，他不可能离开她。他紧紧抓住最后的希望，而我不忍心把他挣脱。

It was this night that he told me the strange story of his youth with Dan Cody—told it to me because ‘Jay Gatsby’ had broken up like glass against Tom’s hard malice and the long secret extravaganza was played out. I think that he would have acknowledged anything, now, without reserve, but he wanted to talk about Daisy.
就在这个晚上，他向我讲述了他年轻时与丹·科迪的奇怪故事——告诉我这个故事是因为“杰·盖茨比”在汤姆的恶毒面前像玻璃一样破碎，漫长的秘密盛宴就此上演。我想他现在会毫无保留地承认任何事情，但他想谈谈黛西。

She was the first ‘nice’ girl he had ever known. In various unrevealed capacities he had come in contact with such people but always with indiscernible barbed wire between. He found her excitingly desirable. He went to her house, at first with other officers from Camp Taylor, then alone. It amazed him—he had never been in such a beautiful house before. But what gave it an air of breathless intensity was that Daisy lived there—it was as casual a thing to her as his tent out at camp was to him. There was a ripe mystery about it, a hint of bedrooms upstairs more beautiful and cool than other bedrooms, of gay and radiant activities taking place through its corridors and of romances that were not musty and laid away already in lavender but fresh and breathing and redolent of this year’s shining motor cars and of dances whose flowers were scarcely withered. It excited him too that many men had already loved Daisy—it increased her value in his eyes. He felt their presence all about the house, pervading the air with the shades and echoes of still vibrant emotions.
她是他认识的第一个“好”女孩。他以各种未透露的身份与这些人接触过，但之间总是隔着难以辨认的铁丝网。他发现她非常令人向往。他先是和泰勒营的其他军官一起去了她家，后来就独自去了。这让他很惊讶——他以前从来没有住过这么漂亮的房子。但黛西住在那里，却让这里显得令人窒息——这对她来说是一件很随意的事情，就像营地里的帐篷对他来说一样平常。它有一种成熟的神秘感，暗示着楼上的卧室比其他卧室更美丽、更凉爽，暗示着走廊里发生着快乐而光彩夺目的活动，暗示着浪漫，不是发霉的、已经在薰衣草中搁置的，而是清新、呼吸和芬芳的。想起今年闪闪发光的汽车，想起花朵尚未凋谢的舞蹈。让他兴奋的是，许多男人已经爱上了黛西——这增加了她在他眼中的价值。他感觉到他们的存在遍布整个房子，空气中弥漫着仍然充满活力的情绪的阴影和回声。

But he knew that he was in Daisy’s house by a colossal accident. However glorious might be his future as Jay Gatsby, he was at present a penniless young man without a past, and at any moment the invisible cloak of his uniform might slip from his shoulders. So he made the most of his time. He took what he could get, ravenously and unscrupulously—eventually he took Daisy one still October night, took her because he had no real right to touch her hand.
但他知道自己来到黛西家是一场巨大的意外。不管他作为杰·盖茨比的未来多么辉煌，他现在是一个身无分文、没有过去的年轻人，他制服上的隐形斗篷随时可能从他的肩膀上滑落。所以他充分利用了自己的时间。他贪婪而肆无忌惮地拿走他能得到的一切——最终，他在十月的一个寂静的夜晚带走了黛西，因为他没有真正的权利碰她的手。

He might have despised himself, for he had certainly taken her under false pretenses. I don’t mean that he had traded on his phantom millions, but he had deliberately given Daisy a sense of security; he let her believe that he was a person from much the same stratum as herself—that he was fully able to take care of her. As a matter of fact he had no such facilities—he had no comfortable family standing behind him and he was liable at the whim of an impersonal government to be blown anywhere about the world.
他可能会鄙视自己，因为他确实用虚假的借口欺骗了她。我并不是说他用他的幻影百万美元进行了交易，而是他故意给黛西一种安全感；他让她相信，他和自己是同一阶层的人，完全有能力照顾她。事实上，他没有这样的设施——他没有舒适的家庭支持他，而且他很可能会因为一个非个人的政府的一时兴起而被吹到世界任何地方。

But he didn’t despise himself and it didn’t turn out as he had imagined. He had intended, probably, to take what he could and go—but now he found that he had committed himself to the following of a grail. He knew that Daisy was extraordinary but he didn’t realize just how extraordinary a ‘nice’ girl could be. She vanished into her rich house, into her rich, full life, leaving Gatsby—nothing. He felt married to her, that was all.
但他并没有鄙视自己，结果也没有像他想象的那样。他本来打算，也许，带走他能带走的东西——但现在他发现他已经致力于追随一个圣杯。他知道黛西很非凡，但他没有意识到一个“好”女孩可以有多么非凡。她消失在她那富丽堂皇的房子里，消失在她丰富、充实的生活中，只留下盖茨比——一无所有。他觉得自己和她结婚了，仅此而已。

When they met again two days later it was Gatsby who was breathless, who was somehow betrayed. Her porch was bright with the bought luxury of star-shine; the wicker of the settee squeaked fashionably as she turned toward him and he kissed her curious and lovely mouth. She had caught a cold and it made her voice huskier and more charming than ever and Gatsby was overwhelmingly aware of the youth and mystery that wealth imprisons and preserves, of the freshness of many clothes and of Daisy, gleaming like silver, safe and proud above the hot struggles of the poor.
两天后，当他们再次见面时，盖茨比气喘吁吁，不知何故被背叛了。她的门廊因星光的奢华而明亮。当她转向他时，长椅的柳条发出时尚的吱吱声，他吻了她好奇而可爱的嘴唇。她感冒了，这使她的声音比以往任何时候都更加沙哑和迷人，盖茨比强烈地意识到财富囚禁和保存的青春和神秘，许多衣服和黛西的新鲜感，像银子一样闪闪发光，安全而自豪穷人的激烈斗争。

‘I can’t describe to you how surprised I was to find out I loved her, old sport. I even hoped for a while that she’d throw me over, but she didn’t, because she was in love with me too. She thought I knew a lot because I knew different things from her…. Well, there I was, way off my ambitions, getting deeper in love every minute, and all of a sudden I didn’t care. What was the use of doing great things if I could have a better time telling her what I was going to do?’
“我无法向你描述当我发现我爱她时我是多么惊讶，老伙计。我什至一度希望她会把我扔掉，但她没有，因为她也爱着我。她认为我知道很多，因为我知道的事情与她不同……。好吧，我就在那里，远离我的野心，每一分钟都在爱中加深，突然间我不在乎了。如果我能更好地告诉她我要做什么，那么做伟大的事情又有什么用呢？

On the last afternoon before he went abroad he sat with Daisy in his arms for a long, silent time. It was a cold fall day with fire in the room and her cheeks flushed. Now and then she moved and he changed his arm a little and once he kissed her dark shining hair. The afternoon had made them tranquil for a while as if to give them a deep memory for the long parting the next day promised. They had never been closer in their month of love nor communicated more profoundly one with another than when she brushed silent lips against his coat’s shoulder or when he touched the end of her fingers, gently, as though she were asleep.
出国前的最后一个下午，他抱着黛西坐了很长一段时间，沉默不语。那是一个寒冷的秋日，房间里生着火，她的脸颊通红。她时不时地动一下，他稍微改变一下手臂，有一次他吻了一下她乌黑闪亮的头发。下午的时间让他们安静了一会儿，仿佛为第二天约定的漫长离别留下了深刻的记忆。当她默默地用嘴唇拂过他的外套肩膀时，或者当他轻轻地触摸她的手指末端时，就像她睡着了一样，他们在爱情的一个月里从未如此亲密，彼此之间的交流也从未如此深入。

He did extraordinarily well in the war. He was a captain before he went to the front and following the Argonne battles he got his majority and the command of the divisional machine guns. After the Armistice he tried frantically to get home but some complication or misunderstanding sent him to Oxford instead. He was worried now—there was a quality of nervous despair in Daisy’s letters. She didn’t see why he couldn’t come. She was feeling the pressure of the world outside and she wanted to see him and feel his presence beside her and be reassured that she was doing the right thing after all.
他在战争中表现出色。在上前线之前，他是一名上尉，在阿贡战役之后，他获得了多数席位并获得了师机关枪的指挥权。停战后，他疯狂地试图回家，但由于一些复杂情况或误解，他转而去了牛津。他现在很担心——黛西的信里有一种紧张绝望的感觉。她不明白他为什么不能来。她感受到了外面世界的压力，她想见到他，感觉他就在她身边，并确信她毕竟在做正确的事情。

For Daisy was young and her artificial world was redolent of orchids and pleasant, cheerful snobbery and orchestras which set the rhythm of the year, summing up the sadness and suggestiveness of life in new tunes. All night the saxophones wailed the hopeless comment of the ‘Beale Street Blues’ while a hundred pairs of golden and silver slippers shuffled the shining dust. At the grey tea hour there were always rooms that throbbed incessantly with this low sweet fever, while fresh faces drifted here and there like rose petals blown by the sad horns around the floor.
因为黛西还很年轻，她的人造世界充满了兰花、愉快、欢快的势利和管弦乐队的气息，它们设定了这一年的节奏，用新的曲调总结了生活的悲伤和暗示。整个晚上，萨克斯管都在哀号着“比尔街蓝调”的绝望评论，而一百双金银拖鞋拖着闪亮的灰尘。在灰茶时间，总有一些房间因这种低甜的热度而不停地颤动，而新鲜的面孔到处飘来飘去，就像地板上悲伤的喇叭吹起的玫瑰花瓣一样。

Through this twilight universe Daisy began to move again with the season; suddenly she was again keeping half a dozen dates a day with half a dozen men and drowsing asleep at dawn with the beads and chiffon of an evening dress tangled among dying orchids on the floor beside her bed. And all the time something within her was crying for a decision. She wanted her life shaped now, immediately—and the decision must be made by some force—of love, of money, of unquestionable practicality—that was close at hand.
在这黄昏的宇宙中，黛西又开始随着季节的变化而移动。突然间，她又开始每天与六个男人约会六次，黎明时分她就睡着了，晚礼服上的珠子和雪纺纱缠在床边地板上垂死的兰花上。她内心一直有某种东西在呼唤着做出决定。她希望她的生活现在就被塑造，立即——而这个决定必须由某种近在眼前的力量——爱、金钱、不容置疑的实用性——来做出。

That force took shape in the middle of spring with the arrival of Tom Buchanan. There was a wholesome bulkiness about his person and his position and Daisy was flattered. Doubtless there was a certain struggle and a certain relief. The letter reached Gatsby while he was still at Oxford.
随着汤姆·布坎南 (Tom Buchanan) 的到来，这股力量在仲春时节形成。他的身材和地位都有一种健康的笨重感，黛西受宠若惊。毫无疑问，有一定的挣扎和一定的解脱。当盖茨比还在牛津时，这封信就到达了他的手中。

It was dawn now on Long Island and we went about opening the rest of the windows downstairs, filling the house with grey turning, gold turning light. The shadow of a tree fell abruptly across the dew and ghostly birds began to sing among the blue leaves. There was a slow pleasant movement in the air, scarcely a wind, promising a cool lovely day.
长岛现在已经是黎明时分，我们开始打开楼下其余的窗户，房子里充满了灰色、金色的光芒。一棵树的影子突然落在露珠上，幽灵般的鸟儿开始在蓝色的树叶间歌唱。空气中有一种缓慢而愉快的运动，几乎没有风，预示着今天会是凉爽宜人的一天。

‘I don’t think she ever loved him.’ Gatsby turned around from a window and looked at me challengingly. ‘You must remember, old sport, she was very excited this afternoon. He told her those things in a way that frightened her—that made it look as if I was some kind of cheap sharper. And the result was she hardly knew what she was saying.’
“我认为她从来没有爱过他。”盖茨比从窗户转过身来，挑衅地看着我。 “你必须记住，老伙计，她今天下午非常兴奋。他以一种让她害怕的方式告诉她这些事情——这让我看起来好像是某种廉价的敏锐者。结果是她几乎不知道自己在说什么。

He sat down gloomily.
他闷闷不乐地坐下来。

‘Of course she might have loved him, just for a minute, when they were first married—and loved me more even then, do you see?’
“当然，当他们刚结婚的时候，她可能爱过他，哪怕只是一分钟——甚至那时就更爱我了，你明白吗？”

Suddenly he came out with a curious remark:
突然，他说出了一句奇怪的话：

‘In any case,’ he said, ‘it was just personal.’
“无论如何，”他说，“这只是个人的事情。”

What could you make of that, except to suspect some intensity in his conception of the affair that couldn’t be measured?
除了怀疑他对这件事的看法有某种无法衡量的强烈程度外，你还能对此作何解释呢？

He came back from France when Tom and Daisy were still on their wedding trip, and made a miserable but irresistible journey to Louisville on the last of his army pay. He stayed there a week, walking the streets where their footsteps had clicked together through the November night and revisiting the out-of-the-way places to which they had driven in her white car. Just as Daisy’s house had always seemed to him more mysterious and gay than other houses so his idea of the city itself, even though she was gone from it, was pervaded with a melancholy beauty.
当汤姆和黛西还在婚礼旅行时，他从法国回来，并用他最后的军饷进行了一次悲惨但不可抗拒的路易斯维尔之旅。他在那里待了一周，走在他们十一月的夜晚脚步声并拢的街道上，并重访了他们开着她的白色汽车去过的那些偏僻的地方。正如黛西的房子在他看来总是比其他房子更神秘、更快乐一样，他对这座城市本身的看法，即使她已经离开了这座城市，也弥漫着一种忧郁的美。

He left feeling that if he had searched harder he might have found her—that he was leaving her behind. The day-coach—he was penniless now—was hot. He went out to the open vestibule and sat down on a folding-chair, and the station slid away and the backs of unfamiliar buildings moved by. Then out into the spring fields, where a yellow trolley raced them for a minute with people in it who might once have seen the pale magic of her face along the casual street.
离开时他感觉如果他更加努力地寻找，他可能会找到她——他正在把她抛在身后。日间教练——他现在身无分文——很热。他走到敞开的前厅，在折叠椅上坐下，车站渐渐远去，陌生建筑物的背面也移过去。然后到了春天的田野，一辆黄色电车在他们面前飞驰了一分钟，车里的人可能曾经在休闲的街道上看到过她苍白的魔力脸。

The track curved and now it was going away from the sun which, as it sank lower, seemed to spread itself in benediction over the vanishing city where she had drawn her breath. He stretched out his hand desperately as if to snatch only a wisp of air, to save a fragment of the spot that she had made lovely for him. But it was all going by too fast now for his blurred eyes and he knew that he had lost that part of it, the freshest and the best, forever.
轨道弯曲了，现在它正在远离太阳，当它落得更低时，太阳似乎在祝福她呼吸的这座消失的城市。他拼命地伸出手，仿佛只是想夺走一缕空气，以挽救她为他弄得可爱的一小片地方。但对于他模糊的眼睛来说，现在一切都过得太快了，他知道他已经永远失去了那部分，最新鲜、最好的。

It was nine o’clock when we finished breakfast and went out on the porch. The night had made a sharp difference in the weather and there was an autumn flavor in the air. The gardener, the last one of Gatsby’s former servants, came to the foot of the steps.
当我们吃完早餐，走到门廊上时，已经九点了。入夜后，天气发生了很大的变化，空气中弥漫着秋天的气息。园丁，盖茨比的最后一个仆人，来到了台阶下。

‘I’m going to drain the pool today, Mr. Gatsby. Leaves’ll start falling pretty soon and then there’s always trouble with the pipes.’
“今天我要把池子里的水排干，盖茨比先生。树叶很快就会开始掉落，然后管道就会出现问题。”

‘Don’t do it today,’ Gatsby answered. He turned to me apologetically. ‘You know, old sport, I’ve never used that pool all summer?’
“今天别这么做，”盖茨比回答道。他抱歉地转向我。 “你知道吗，老兄，我整个夏天都没用过那个游泳池？”

I looked at my watch and stood up.
我看了看手表，站了起来。

‘Twelve minutes to my train.’
“十二分钟就到我的火车了。”

I didn’t want to go to the city. I wasn’t worth a decent stroke of work but it was more than that—I didn’t want to leave Gatsby. I missed that train, and then another, before I could get myself away.
我不想去城里。我不值得做体面的工作，但更重要的是——我不想离开盖茨比。在我离开之前，我错过了那趟火车，然后又错过了另一趟火车。

‘I’ll call you up,’ I said finally.
“我会打电话给你，”我最后说道。

‘Do, old sport.’
“做吧，老伙计。”

‘I’ll call you about noon.’
“中午左右我会给你打电话。”

We walked slowly down the steps.
我们慢慢地走下台阶。

‘I suppose Daisy’ll call too.’ He looked at me anxiously as if he hoped I’d corroborate this.
“我想黛西也会打电话来。”他焦急地看着我，好像希望我能证实这一点。

‘I suppose so.’
'我想是这样。'

‘Well—goodbye.’
'那再见吧;好吧再见。'

We shook hands and I started away. Just before I reached the hedge I remembered something and turned around.
我们握了握手，然后我就出发了。就在我到达树篱之前，我想起了什么，然后转过身来。

‘They’re a rotten crowd,’ I shouted across the lawn. ‘You’re worth the whole damn bunch put together.’
“他们是一群腐烂的人，”我在草坪对面喊道。 “你值得所有该死的人加在一起。”

I’ve always been glad I said that. It was the only compliment I ever gave him, because I disapproved of him from beginning to end. First he nodded politely, and then his face broke into that radiant and understanding smile, as if we’d been in ecstatic cahoots on that fact all the time. His gorgeous pink rag of a suit made a bright spot of color against the white steps and I thought of the night when I first came to his ancestral home three months before. The lawn and drive had been crowded with the faces of those who guessed at his corruption—and he had stood on those steps, concealing his incorruptible dream, as he waved them goodbye.
我一直很高兴我这么说。这是我给过他的唯一的赞美，因为我从头到尾都不赞成他。首先他礼貌地点点头，然后他的脸上绽放出灿烂而理解的微笑，就好像我们一直在为这个事实而欣喜若狂。他那件华丽的粉红色破布西装在白色的台阶的映衬下成为了一个亮点，我想起了三个月前我第一次来到他祖屋时的那个夜晚。草坪和车道上挤满了那些猜测他腐败的人——而他站在那些台阶上，隐藏着他纯洁的梦想，向他们挥手告别。

I thanked him for his hospitality. We were always thanking him for that—I and the others.
我感谢他的盛情款待。我们——我和其他人——一直为此感谢他。

‘Goodbye,’ I called. ‘I enjoyed breakfast, Gatsby.’
“再见，”我喊道。 “我很享受早餐，盖茨比。”

Up in the city I tried for a while to list the quotations on an interminable amount of stock, then I fell asleep in my swivel-chair. Just before noon the phone woke me and I started up with sweat breaking out on my forehead. It was Jordan Baker; she often called me up at this hour because the uncertainty of her own movements between hotels and clubs and private houses made her hard to find in any other way. Usually her voice came over the wire as something fresh and cool as if a divot from a green golf links had come sailing in at the office window but this morning it seemed harsh and dry.
在城里，我尝试了一会儿列出无数库存的报价，然后我在转椅上睡着了。快到中午的时候，电话把我吵醒了，我惊​​醒了，额头上冒出了汗。这是乔丹·贝克；她经常在这个时间给我打电话，因为她自己在酒店、俱乐部和私人住宅之间移动的不确定性使得很难通过其他方式找到她。通常，她的声音通过电线传来，清新而凉爽，就好像绿色高尔夫球场上的一片草皮从办公室窗户飘进来，但今天早上，声音显得刺耳而干燥。

‘I’ve left Daisy’s house,’ she said. ‘I’m at Hempstead and I’m going down to Southampton this afternoon.’
“我离开了黛西的家，”她说。 “我在亨普斯特德，今天下午要去南安普顿。”

Probably it had been tactful to leave Daisy’s house, but the act annoyed me and her next remark made me rigid.
也许离开黛西的家是很明智的举动，但这个举动让我很恼火，她的下一句话让我变得僵硬。

‘You weren’t so nice to me last night.’
“昨晚你对我不太好。”

‘How could it have mattered then?’
“那又有什么关系呢？”

Silence for a moment. Then—
沉默了一会儿。然后-

‘However—I want to see you.’
“但是——我想见你。”

‘I want to see you too.’
'我想见到你。'

‘Suppose I don’t go to Southampton, and come into town this afternoon?’
“假设我今天下午不去南安普敦而进城呢？”

‘No—I don’t think this afternoon.’
“不——我想今天下午不会。”

‘Very well.’
'很好。'

‘It’s impossible this afternoon. Various——‘
“今天下午这是不可能的。各种各样的 - '

We talked like that for a while and then abruptly we weren’t talking any longer. I don’t know which of us hung up with a sharp click but I know I didn’t care. I couldn’t have talked to her across a tea-table that day if I never talked to her again in this world.
我们就这样聊了一会儿，然后突然不再说话了。我不知道我们中谁突然挂断了电话，但我知道我不在乎。如果我在这个世界上不再和她说话，我那天就不可能隔着茶桌和她说话。

I called Gatsby’s house a few minutes later, but the line was busy. I tried four times; finally an exasperated central told me the wire was being kept open for long distance from Detroit. Taking out my time-table I drew a small circle around the three-fifty train. Then I leaned back in my chair and tried to think. It was just noon.
几分钟后我给盖茨比家打电话，但占线。我试了四次；最后，一个愤怒的中央告诉我，从底特律到很远的地方，电线一直保持畅通。我拿出时刻表，在三点五十分的火车周围画了一个小圈。然后我靠在椅子上试图思考。当时才中午。

When I passed the ashheaps on the train that morning I had crossed deliberately to the other side of the car. I suppose there’d be a curious crowd around there all day with little boys searching for dark spots in the dust and some garrulous man telling over and over what had happened until it became less and less real even to him and he could tell it no longer and Myrtle Wilson’s tragic achievement was forgotten. Now I want to go back a little and tell what happened at the garage after we left there the night before.
那天早上，当我经过火车上的灰堆时，我故意走到了车厢的另一边。我想那里整天都会有一群好奇的人群，小男孩在灰尘中寻找黑点，还有一些喋喋不休的男人一遍又一遍地讲述发生的事情，直到连他自己都变得越来越不真实，他也说不时间更长了，默特尔·威尔逊的悲惨成就也被遗忘了。现在我想稍微回顾一下，讲述前一天晚上我们离开车库后发生的事情。

They had difficulty in locating the sister, Catherine. She must have broken her rule against drinking that night for when she arrived she was stupid with liquor and unable to understand that the ambulance had already gone to Flushing. When they convinced her of this she immediately fainted as if that was the intolerable part of the affair. Someone kind or curious took her in his car and drove her in the wake of her sister’s body.
他们很难找到妹妹凯瑟琳。她一定违反了那天晚上不喝酒的规定，因为当她到达时，她已经喝醉了，无法理解救护车已经开往法拉盛。当他们让她相信这一点时，她立即晕倒了，仿佛这就是这件事中最难以忍受的部分。某个好心或好奇的人把她带进了自己的车里，并在她姐姐的尸体后面开着她。

Until long after midnight a changing crowd lapped up against the front of the garage while George Wilson rocked himself back and forth on the couch inside. For a while the door of the office was open and everyone who came into the garage glanced irresistibly through it. Finally someone said it was a shame and closed the door. Michaelis and several other men were with him—first four or five men, later two or three men. Still later Michaelis had to ask the last stranger to wait there fifteen minutes longer while he went back to his own place and made a pot of coffee. After that he stayed there alone with Wilson until dawn.
直到午夜过后很久，不断变化的人群在车库前面拍打着，而乔治·威尔逊则在车库里的沙发上来回摇晃。有一阵子，办公室的门开着，每个进入车库的人都情不自禁地朝里面看了一眼。最后有人说这太可惜了并关上了门。米凯利斯和其他几个人和他在一起——最初是四五个人，后来是两三个人。再后来，米凯利斯不得不让最后一个陌生人再在那里等十五分钟，而他则回到自己的住处，煮一壶咖啡。之后他和威尔逊单独呆在那里直到天亮。

About three o’clock the quality of Wilson’s incoherent muttering changed—he grew quieter and began to talk about the yellow car. He announced that he had a way of finding out whom the yellow car belonged to, and then he blurted out that a couple of months ago his wife had come from the city with her face bruised and her nose swollen.
大约三点钟左右，威尔逊语无伦次的低声语气发生了变化——他变得更安静了，开始谈论那辆黄色汽车。他宣称他有办法查出那辆黄色汽车是谁的，然后他脱口而出，几个月前他的妻子从城里来，脸青肿，鼻子肿。

But when he heard himself say this, he flinched and began to cry ‘Oh, my God!’ again in his groaning voice. Michaelis made a clumsy attempt to distract him.
但当他听到自己说出这句话时，他退缩了，并开始用呻吟的声音再次哭泣：“哦，我的上帝！”米凯利斯笨拙地试图分散他的注意力。

‘How long have you been married, George? Come on there, try and sit still a minute and answer my question. How long have you been married?’
“乔治，你结婚多久了？来吧，试着安静地坐一会儿，回答我的问题。你结婚多久了？'

‘Twelve years.’
'十二年。'

‘Ever had any children? Come on, George, sit still—I asked you a question. Did you ever have any children?’
‘曾经有过孩子吗？来吧，乔治，别动——我问了你一个问题。你有过孩子吗？

The hard brown beetles kept thudding against the dull light and whenever Michaelis heard a car go tearing along the road outside it sounded to him like the car that hadn’t stopped a few hours before. He didn’t like to go into the garage because the work bench was stained where the body had been lying so he moved uncomfortably around the office—he knew every object in it before morning—and from time to time sat down beside Wilson trying to keep him more quiet.
坚硬的棕色甲虫在昏暗的灯光下不断发出撞击声，每当米凯利斯听到外面道路上有一辆汽车呼啸而过时，他听起来就像是几小时前还没有停下来的汽车。他不喜欢进车库，因为工作台上尸体躺着的地方被弄脏了，所以他在办公室里走来走去，很不舒服——早上之前他就知道办公室里的每一件东西——时不时地坐在威尔逊旁边，试图整理一下。让他更安静。

‘Have you got a church you go to sometimes, George? Maybe even if you haven’t been there for a long time? Maybe I could call up the church and get a priest to come over and he could talk to you, see?’
“乔治，你有时会去教堂吗？也许即使你已经很长时间没去过那里了？也许我可以打电话给教堂，请一位牧师过来，他可以和你谈谈，明白吗？

‘Don’t belong to any.’
“不属于任何人。”

‘You ought to have a church, George, for times like this. You must have gone to church once. Didn’t you get married in a church? Listen, George, listen to me. Didn’t you get married in a church?’
“乔治，在这样的时刻，你应该建一座教堂。你一定去过一次教堂。你们不是在教堂结婚的吗？听着，乔治，听我说。你们不是在教堂结婚的吗？

‘That was a long time ago.’
'那是很久以前的事。'

The effort of answering broke the rhythm of his rocking—for a moment he was silent. Then the same half knowing, half bewildered look came back into his faded eyes.
回答的努力打破了他摇晃的节奏——他沉默了一会儿。然后，同样的半明半暗、半困惑的表情又回到了他那双苍白的眼睛里。

‘Look in the drawer there,’ he said, pointing at the desk.
“看看那里的抽屉，”他指着桌子说。

‘Which drawer?’
“哪个抽屉？”

‘That drawer—that one.’
“那个抽屉——那个。”

Michaelis opened the drawer nearest his hand. There was nothing in it but a small expensive dog leash made of leather and braided silver. It was apparently new.
米凯利斯打开离他手最近的抽屉。里面什么也没有，只有一条用皮革和银编织制成的小而昂贵的狗皮带。这显然是新的。

‘This?’ he inquired, holding it up.
“这个？”他举起它问道。

Wilson stared and nodded.
威尔逊凝视着并点点头。

‘I found it yesterday afternoon. She tried to tell me about it but I knew it was something funny.’
“我昨天下午找到的。她试图告诉我这件事，但我知道这很有趣。

‘You mean your wife bought it?’
“你是说你妻子买了它？”

‘She had it wrapped in tissue paper on her bureau.’
“她把它用薄纸包起来放在她的办公桌上。”

Michaelis didn’t see anything odd in that and he gave Wilson a dozen reasons why his wife might have bought the dog leash. But conceivably Wilson had heard some of these same explanations before, from Myrtle, because he began saying ‘Oh, my God!’ again in a whisper—his comforter left several explanations in the air.
米凯利斯并不觉得这有什么奇怪的，他给了威尔逊十几个理由，解释为什么他的妻子可能会买这条狗皮带。但可以想象，威尔逊以前从默特尔那里听过一些同样的解释，因为他又开始低声说“哦，天哪！”——他的安慰者留下了一些解释。

‘Then he killed her,’ said Wilson. His mouth dropped open suddenly.
“然后他杀了她，”威尔逊说。他的嘴突然张开。

‘Who did?’
'谁干的？'

‘I have a way of finding out.’
“我有办法找到答案。”

‘You’re morbid, George,’ said his friend. ‘This has been a strain to you and you don’t know what you’re saying. You’d better try and sit quiet till morning.’
“你太病态了，乔治，”他的朋友说。 “这对你来说是一种压力，你不知道自己在说什么。你最好试着安静地坐到早上。

‘He murdered her.’
“他谋杀了她。”

‘It was an accident, George.’
“这是一次意外，乔治。”

Wilson shook his head. His eyes narrowed and his mouth widened slightly with the ghost of a superior ‘Hm!’
威尔逊摇摇头。他双目眯起，嘴巴微微张大，发出一声高高在上的“嗯！”

‘I know,’ he said definitely, ‘I’m one of these trusting fellas and I don’t think any harm to NObody, but when I get to know a thing I know it. It was the man in that car. She ran out to speak to him and he wouldn’t stop.’
“我知道，”他斩钉截铁地说，“我是这些值得信任的人之一，我不认为这会对任何人造成任何伤害，但当我了解一件事时，我就知道了。”正是那辆车里的那个人。她跑出去和他说话，但他不肯停下来。”

Michaelis had seen this too but it hadn’t occurred to him that there was any special significance in it. He believed that Mrs. Wilson had been running away from her husband, rather than trying to stop any particular car.
米凯利斯也看到了这一点，但他并没有想到这有什么特殊的意义。他相信威尔逊夫人是在逃离她的丈夫，而不是试图阻止任何特定的汽车。

‘How could she of been like that?’
“她怎么会这样？”

‘She’s a deep one,’ said Wilson, as if that answered the question. ‘Ah-h-h——‘
“她是个深沉的人，”威尔逊说道，仿佛这回答了问题。 ‘啊啊啊——’

He began to rock again and Michaelis stood twisting the leash in his hand.
他又开始摇晃，米凯利斯站在那里，扭动手中的皮带。

‘Maybe you got some friend that I could telephone for, George?’
“也许我可以打电话给你的朋友，乔治？”

This was a forlorn hope—he was almost sure that Wilson had no friend: there was not enough of him for his wife. He was glad a little later when he noticed a change in the room, a blue quickening by the window, and realized that dawn wasn’t far off. About five o’clock it was blue enough outside to snap off the light.
这是一个渺茫的希望——他几乎可以肯定威尔逊没有朋友：他的妻子没有足够的朋友。过了一会儿，当他注意到房间里发生了变化，窗外的蓝色越来越快时，他感到很高兴，并意识到黎明已经不远了。大约五点钟，外面的天色已经足够蓝了，可以关掉灯。

Wilson’s glazed eyes turned out to the ashheaps, where small grey clouds took on fantastic shape and scurried here and there in the faint dawn wind.
威尔逊目光呆滞，望向灰烬堆，灰色的小云呈现出奇异的形状，在微弱的黎明风中东窜西窜。

‘I spoke to her,’ he muttered, after a long silence. ‘I told her she might fool me but she couldn’t fool God. I took her to the window—’ With an effort he got up and walked to the rear window and leaned with his face pressed against it, ‘—and I said ‘God knows what you’ve been doing, everything you’ve been doing. You may fool me but you can’t fool God!’ ‘
“我跟她说话了，”在长时间的沉默之后，他低声说道。 “我告诉她她可能会愚弄我，但她无法愚弄上帝。我把她带到窗边——”他费了好大的劲站起来，走到后窗，把脸靠在窗子上，”——然后我说“上帝知道你在做什么，你在做什么” 。你可以愚弄我，但你无法愚弄上帝！”

Standing behind him Michaelis saw with a shock that he was looking at the eyes of Doctor T. J. Eckleburg which had just emerged pale and enormous from the dissolving night.
站在他身后的米凯利斯震惊地发现，他正看着T·J·埃克尔伯格医生的眼睛，那双眼睛刚刚从消融的夜色中变得苍白而巨大。

‘God sees everything,’ repeated Wilson.
“上帝看到一切，”威尔逊重复道。

‘That’s an advertisement,’ Michaelis assured him. Something made him turn away from the window and look back into the room. But Wilson stood there a long time, his face close to the window pane, nodding into the twilight.
“那是广告，”米凯利斯向他保证。有什么东西让他把脸从窗户上移开，回头看向房间里。但威尔逊在那里站了很长时间，他的脸靠近窗玻璃，对着暮色点点头。

By six o’clock Michaelis was worn out and grateful for the sound of a car stopping outside. It was one of the watchers of the night before who had promised to come back so he cooked breakfast for three which he and the other man ate together. Wilson was quieter now and Michaelis went home to sleep; when he awoke four hours later and hurried back to the garage Wilson was gone.
到了六点钟，米凯利斯已经精疲力竭了，他对外面停着的汽车的声音感到很感激。前一天晚上的一名看守者答应回来，所以他做了三个人的早餐，和另一个人一起吃。威尔逊现在安静多了，米凯利斯回家睡觉了。四小时后，当他醒来并赶回车库时，威尔逊已经走了。

His movements—he was on foot all the time—were afterward traced to Port Roosevelt and then to Gad’s Hill where he bought a sandwich that he didn’t eat and a cup of coffee. He must have been tired and walking slowly for he didn’t reach Gad’s Hill until noon. Thus far there was no difficulty in accounting for his time—there were boys who had seen a man ‘acting sort of crazy’ and motorists at whom he stared oddly from the side of the road. Then for three hours he disappeared from view. The police, on the strength of what he said to Michaelis, that he ‘had a way of finding out,’ supposed that he spent that time going from garage to garage thereabouts inquiring for a yellow car. On the other hand no garage man who had seen him ever came forward—and perhaps he had an easier, surer way of finding out what he wanted to know. By half past two he was in West Egg where he asked someone the way to Gatsby’s house. So by that time he knew Gatsby’s name.
他的行动——他一直步行——后来被追踪到罗斯福港，然后到盖德山，在那里他买了一个三明治但没有吃，还买了一杯咖啡。他一定是累了，走得很慢，直到中午才到达迦德山。到目前为止，计算他的时间并不困难——有些男孩看到一个男人“表现得有点疯狂”，还有他在路边奇怪地盯着司机。然后三个小时他就从人们的视野中消失了。警方根据他对米凯利斯所说的“有办法查明真相”，推测他在那段时间从一个车库到另一个车库询问一辆黄色汽车。另一方面，见过他的车库工作人员从来没有站出来——也许他有一种更简单、更确定的方法来找出他想知道的事情。两点半他就到了西埃格，向某人打听去盖茨比家的路。所以那时他知道了盖茨比的名字。

At two o’clock Gatsby put on his bathing suit and left word with the butler that if any one phoned word was to be brought to him at the pool. He stopped at the garage for a pneumatic mattress that had amused his guests during the summer, and the chauffeur helped him pump it up. Then he gave instructions that the open car wasn’t to be taken out under any circumstances—and this was strange because the front right fender needed repair.
两点钟，盖茨比穿上泳衣，对管家说，如果有人打电话，请在泳池里转告他。他在车库停下来买一个充气床垫，这个床垫在夏天给他的客人带来了乐趣，司机帮他给它打气。然后他指示说，在任何情况下都不能取出敞篷车——这很奇怪，因为右前挡泥板需要修理。

Gatsby shouldered the mattress and started for the pool. Once he stopped and shifted it a little, and the chauffeur asked him if he needed help, but he shook his head and in a moment disappeared among the yellowing trees.
盖茨比扛起床垫，向泳池走去。有一次他停下来，稍微移动了一下，司机问他是否需要帮助，但他摇了摇头，一会儿就消失在泛黄的树林里。

No telephone message arrived but the butler went without his sleep and waited for it until four o’clock—until long after there was any one to give it to if it came. I have an idea that Gatsby himself didn’t believe it would come and perhaps he no longer cared. If that was true he must have felt that he had lost the old warm world, paid a high price for living too long with a single dream. He must have looked up at an unfamiliar sky through frightening leaves and shivered as he found what a grotesque thing a rose is and how raw the sunlight was upon the scarcely created grass. A new world, material without being real, where poor ghosts, breathing dreams like air, drifted fortuitously about … like that ashen, fantastic figure gliding toward him through the amorphous trees.
没有电话留言，但管家彻夜未眠，一直等到四点钟——直到很久以后，如果电话来了，就没有人可以把它交给他了。我有一个想法，盖茨比本人并不相信它会到来，也许他不再关心了。如果这是真的，他一定觉得自己已经失去了原来那个温暖的世界，为一个梦想生活得太久而付出了高昂的代价。他一定是透过可怕的树叶仰望陌生的天空，当他发现玫瑰是多么怪异的东西，以及阳光照射在刚刚长出来的草地上是多么原始时，他颤抖着。一个新的世界，物质而不是真实的，可怜的鬼魂，呼吸着像空气一样的梦想，偶然地漂浮着……就像那个灰色的、奇异的人物穿过无定形的树林向他滑行。

The chauffeur—he was one of Wolfshiem’s protégés—heard the shots—afterward he could only say that he hadn’t thought anything much about them. I drove from the station directly to Gatsby’s house and my rushing anxiously up the front steps was the first thing that alarmed any one. But they knew then, I firmly believe. With scarcely a word said, four of us, the chauffeur, butler, gardener and I, hurried down to the pool.
司机——他是沃尔夫山姆的门生之一——听到了枪声——后来他只能说他并没有想太多。我从车站直接开车到盖茨比家，我焦急地冲上前门台阶是第一件让任何人感到惊慌的事情。但我坚信，他们当时就知道了。我几乎一言不发，司机、管家、园丁和我四个人急忙跑到泳池边。

There was a faint, barely perceptible movement of the water as the fresh flow from one end urged its way toward the drain at the other. With little ripples that were hardly the shadows of waves, the laden mattress moved irregularly down the pool. A small gust of wind that scarcely corrugated the surface was enough to disturb its accidental course with its accidental burden. The touch of a cluster of leaves revolved it slowly, tracing, like the leg of compass, a thin red circle in the water.
当新鲜的水流从一端流向另一端的排水沟时，水流发出微弱的、几乎无法察觉的运动。满载的床垫沿着水池不规则地移动，泛起几乎不像波浪阴影的小涟漪。一阵小风几乎没有在表面上起皱，就足以扰乱其意外的航向及其意外的负担。一簇树叶的触碰使它慢慢地旋转，像指南针的腿一样，在水中划出一个细细的红色圆圈。

It was after we started with Gatsby toward the house that the gardener saw Wilson’s body a little way off in the grass, and the holocaust was complete.
当我们和盖茨比一起朝房子走去时，园丁在不远处的草地上看到了威尔逊的尸体，大屠杀结束了。

Chapter 9
第9章

After two years I remember the rest of that day, and that night and the next day, only as an endless drill of police and photographers and newspaper men in and out of Gatsby’s front door. A rope stretched across the main gate and a policeman by it kept out the curious, but little boys soon discovered that they could enter through my yard and there were always a few of them clustered open-mouthed about the pool. Someone with a positive manner, perhaps a detective, used the expression ‘mad man’ as he bent over Wilson’s body that afternoon, and the adventitious authority of his voice set the key for the newspaper reports next morning.
两年后，我记得那天剩下的时间，那天晚上和第二天，只记得警察、摄影师和新闻工作者无休止地进出盖茨比的前门。一根绳子横跨大门，旁边有一名警察，将好奇的人拒之门外，但小男孩们很快发现他们可以通过我的院子进入，而且总是有几个人张着嘴聚集在游泳池周围。那天下午，一个态度积极的人，也许是一名侦探，在俯身于威尔逊的尸体上时用了“疯子”这个词，他声音中偶然出现的权威为第二天早上的报纸报道奠定了关键。

Most of those reports were a nightmare—grotesque, circumstantial, eager and untrue. When Michaelis’s testimony at the inquest brought to light Wilson’s suspicions of his wife I thought the whole tale would shortly be served up in racy pasquinade—but Catherine, who might have said anything, didn’t say a word. She showed a surprising amount of character about it too—looked at the coroner with determined eyes under that corrected brow of hers and swore that her sister had never seen Gatsby, that her sister was completely happy with her husband, that her sister had been into no mischief whatever. She convinced herself of it and cried into her handkerchief as if the very suggestion was more than she could endure. So Wilson was reduced to a man ‘deranged by grief’ in order that the case might remain in its simplest form. And it rested there.
这些报道大部分都是一场噩梦——怪诞、客观、急切且不真实。当米凯利斯在审讯中的证词揭露了威尔逊对他妻子的怀疑时，我以为整个故事很快就会以生动的帕斯奎纳德的方式呈现出来——但凯瑟琳可能会说什么，但什么也没说。她在这方面也表现出了令人惊讶的性格——在她矫正的眉毛下用坚定的眼睛看着验尸官，发誓她的姐姐从未见过盖茨比，她的姐姐对她的丈夫非常满意，她的姐姐已经爱上了盖茨比。没有任何恶作剧。她说服了自己这一点，并捂着手帕哭泣，仿佛这个建议让她无法忍受。因此，威尔逊被简化为一个“因悲伤而精神错乱”的人，以便案件保持最简单的形式。它就停在那里。

But all this part of it seemed remote and unessential. I found myself on Gatsby’s side, and alone. From the moment I telephoned news of the catastrophe to West Egg village, every surmise about him, and every practical question, was referred to me. At first I was surprised and confused; then, as he lay in his house and didn’t move or breathe or speak hour upon hour it grew upon me that I was responsible, because no one else was interested—interested, I mean, with that intense personal interest to which every one has some vague right at the end.
但这一切似乎都是遥远且无关紧要的。我发现自己站在盖茨比一边，而且孤身一人。从我打电话向西埃格村通报这场灾难的那一刻起，关于他的每一个猜测和每一个实际问题都向我提出来。起初我感到惊讶和困惑；然后，当他躺在自己的房子里，一动不动，一动不动，一动不动，一呼吸，一小时一小时地说话时，我逐渐意识到我要对此负责，因为没有其他人感兴趣——感兴趣，我的意思是，每个人都对这种强烈的个人兴趣感兴趣。最后有一些模糊的权利。

I called up Daisy half an hour after we found him, called her instinctively and without hesitation. But she and Tom had gone away early that afternoon, and taken baggage with them.
在我们找到他半小时后，我给黛西打了电话，本能地、毫不犹豫地给她打了电话。但那天下午她和汤姆很早就离开了，并带走了行李。

‘Left no address?’
“没有留下地址吗？”

‘No.’
'不。'

‘Say when they’d be back?’
“说他们什么时候回来？”

‘No.’
'不。'

‘Any idea where they are? How I could reach them?’
‘知道他们在哪里吗？我怎样才能联系到他们？

‘I don’t know. Can’t say.’
'我不知道。不能说。

I wanted to get somebody for him. I wanted to go into the room where he lay and reassure him: ‘I’ll get somebody for you, Gatsby. Don’t worry. Just trust me and I’ll get somebody for you——‘
我想为他找个人。我想走进他躺着的房间并向他保证：“我会为你找人的，盖茨比。”不用担心。只要相信我，我就会找人来帮你——”

Meyer Wolfshiem’s name wasn’t in the phone book. The butler gave me his office address on Broadway and I called Information, but by the time I had the number it was long after five and no one answered the phone.
迈耶·沃尔夫山姆的名字没有出现在电话簿中。管家给了我他在百老汇的办公室地址，我给信息部打了电话，但当我拿到号码时，已经是五点多了，没有人接电话。

‘Will you ring again?’
“你能再按一下吗？”

‘I’ve rung them three times.’
“我已经给他们打过三遍电话了。”

‘It’s very important.’
'这很重要。'

‘Sorry. I’m afraid no one’s there.’
'对不起。恐怕没人在场。

I went back to the drawing room and thought for an instant that they were chance visitors, all these official people who suddenly filled it. But as they drew back the sheet and looked at Gatsby with unmoved eyes, his protest continued in my brain.
我回到客厅，一瞬间以为他们是偶然来访的，所有这些突然挤满了客厅的官方人士。但当他们拉开床单，用不动的眼神看着盖茨比时，他的抗议仍在我的脑海中继续。

‘Look here, old sport, you’ve got to get somebody for me. You’ve got to try hard. I can’t go through this alone.’
‘听着，老伙计，你得找个人来帮我。你必须努力尝试。我无法独自经历这一切。

Some one started to ask me questions but I broke away and going upstairs looked hastily through the unlocked parts of his desk—he’d never told me definitely that his parents were dead. But there was nothing—only the picture of Dan Cody, a token of forgotten violence staring down from the wall.
有人开始问我问题，但我挣脱开来，上楼匆匆查看他办公桌上未上锁的部分——他从未明确告诉我他的父母已经去世。但什么也没有——只有丹·科迪的照片，从墙上俯视着被遗忘的暴力的象征。

Next morning I sent the butler to New York with a letter to Wolfshiem which asked for information and urged him to come out on the next train. That request seemed superfluous when I wrote it. I was sure he’d start when he saw the newspapers, just as I was sure there’d be a wire from Daisy before noon—but neither a wire nor Mr. Wolfshiem arrived, no one arrived except more police and photographers and newspaper men. When the butler brought back Wolfshiem’s answer I began to have a feeling of defiance, of scornful solidarity between Gatsby and me against them all.
第二天早上，我派管家去纽约，给沃尔夫希姆写了一封信，询问情况并敦促他乘坐下一趟火车出来。当我写下这个请求时，这个请求似乎是多余的。我确信他一看到报纸就会开始，就像我确信中午之前会有黛西发来的电报一样——但是电报和沃尔夫山姆先生都没有到达，除了更多的警察、摄影师和新闻工作者之外，没有人到达。 。当管家带回沃尔夫山姆的答案时，我开始产生一种蔑视的感觉，一种轻蔑的感觉，我和盖茨比之间团结一致，反对他们所有人。

Dear Mr. Carraway. This has been one of the most terrible shocks of my life to me I hardly can believe it that it is true at all. Such a mad act as that man did should make us all think. I cannot come down now as I am tied up in some very important business and cannot get mixed up in this thing now. If there is anything I can do a little later let me know in a letter by Edgar. I hardly know where I am when I hear about a thing like this and am completely knocked down and out.
亲爱的卡拉威先生。这是我一生中最可怕的震惊之一，我几乎不敢相信这是真的。这名男子做出的如此疯狂的行为应该引起我们所有人的思考。我现在不能下来，因为我正忙着一些非常重要的事情，现在不能掺和这件事。如果稍后我能做些什么，请在埃德加的信中告诉我。当我听到这样的事情时，我几乎不知道自己在哪里，并且完全被击倒了。

Yours truly
敬上

MEYER WOLFSHIEM
迈耶·沃尔夫希姆

and then hasty addenda beneath:
然后是下面的仓促附录：

Let me know about the funeral etc do not know his family at all.
让我知道葬礼等根本不认识他的家人。

When the phone rang that afternoon and Long Distance said Chicago was calling I thought this would be Daisy at last. But the connection came through as a man’s voice, very thin and far away.
那天下午，当电话响起，长途电话说芝加哥打来电话时，我想这终于是黛西了。但这种联系是通过一个男人的声音传来的，非常微弱而遥远。

‘This is Slagle speaking....’
“我是斯莱格尔……”

‘Yes?’ The name was unfamiliar.
“是吗？”这个名字很陌生。

‘Hell of a note, isn’t it? Get my wire?’
“真是太棒了，不是吗？拿到我的电线吗？

‘There haven’t been any wires.’
“没有任何电线。”

‘Young Parke’s in trouble,’ he said rapidly. ‘They picked him up when he handed the bonds over the counter. They got a circular from New York giving ‘em the numbers just five minutes before. What d’you know about that, hey? You never can tell in these hick towns——‘
“年轻的帕克有麻烦了，”他迅速说道。 “当他把债券递到柜台上时，他们把他抓了起来。就在五分钟前，他们收到了纽约发来的通知，告知了他们的数字。你对此了解多少，嘿？在这些乡镇里你永远无法分辨——”

‘Hello!’ I interrupted breathlessly. ‘Look here—this isn’t Mr. Gatsby. Mr. Gatsby’s dead.’
“你好！”我气喘吁吁地打断道。 “看这里——这不是盖茨比先生。盖茨比先生死了。

There was a long silence on the other end of the wire, followed by an exclamation … then a quick squawk as the connection was broken.
电线的另一端陷入了长时间的沉默，然后是一声惊呼……然后是一声快速的尖叫声，连接断开了。

I think it was on the third day that a telegram signed Henry C. Gatz arrived from a town in Minnesota. It said only that the sender was leaving immediately and to postpone the funeral until he came.
我想是在第三天，一封署名亨利·C·盖茨的电报从明尼苏达州的一个小镇寄来。只说送信人要立即离开，并将葬礼推迟到他来为止。

It was Gatsby’s father, a solemn old man very helpless and dismayed, bundled up in a long cheap ulster against the warm September day. His eyes leaked continuously with excitement and when I took the bag and umbrella from his hands he began to pull so incessantly at his sparse grey beard that I had difficulty in getting off his coat. He was on the point of collapse so I took him into the music room and made him sit down while I sent for something to eat. But he wouldn’t eat and the glass of milk spilled from his trembling hand.
那是盖茨比的父亲，一位庄严的老人，非常无助和沮丧，在九月温暖的日子里，他裹着一件廉价的长外套。他的眼睛里不断流露出兴奋的光芒，当我从他手里接过包和雨伞时，他开始不停地拉扯他稀疏的灰色胡须，我很难脱掉他的外套。他快要崩溃了，所以我把他带到音乐室，让他坐下，然后我派人去拿点吃的。但他不肯吃东西，一杯牛奶从他颤抖的手上洒了出来。

‘I saw it in the Chicago newspaper,’ he said. ‘It was all in the Chicago newspaper. I started right away.’
“我在芝加哥报纸上看到了，”他说。 “这一切都在芝加哥报纸上。我马上就开始了。

‘I didn’t know how to reach you.’
“我不知道怎么联系你。”

His eyes, seeing nothing, moved ceaselessly about the room.
他的眼睛什么也看不见，在房间里不停地移动。

‘It was a mad man,’ he said. ‘He must have been mad.’
“这是一个疯子，”他说。 “他一定是疯了。”

‘Wouldn’t you like some coffee?’ I urged him.
“你不想喝点咖啡吗？”我催促他。

‘I don’t want anything. I’m all right now, Mr.——‘
‘我什么都不想要。我现在没事了，先生——”

‘Carraway.’
“卡拉威。”

‘Well, I’m all right now. Where have they got Jimmy?’
‘嗯，我现在没事了。他们从哪里找到吉米的？

I took him into the drawing-room, where his son lay, and left him there. Some little boys had come up on the steps and were looking into the hall; when I told them who had arrived they went reluctantly away.
我把他带到客厅，他的儿子躺在那里，然后把他留在那里。几个小男孩走上台阶，朝大厅里望去。当我告诉他们谁来了时，他们不情愿地离开了。

After a little while Mr. Gatz opened the door and came out, his mouth ajar, his face flushed slightly, his eyes leaking isolated and unpunctual tears. He had reached an age where death no longer has the quality of ghastly surprise, and when he looked around him now for the first time and saw the height and splendor of the hall and the great rooms opening out from it into other rooms his grief began to be mixed with an awed pride. I helped him to a bedroom upstairs; while he took off his coat and vest I told him that all arrangements had been deferred until he came.
过了一会儿，盖茨先生打开门走了出来，他的嘴张着，脸色微微泛红，眼角不时流下孤立无援的泪水。他已经到了死亡不再具有可怕的惊喜的年龄，当他第一次环顾四周，看到大厅的高度和辉煌以及从大厅通向其他房间的大房间时，他的悲伤开始了夹杂着敬畏的骄傲。我扶他到楼上的卧室。当他脱掉外套和背心时，我告诉他所有的安排都推迟到他来了。

‘I didn’t know what you’d want, Mr. Gatsby——‘
“我不知道你想要什么，盖茨比先生——”

‘Gatz is my name.’
“盖茨是我的名字。”

‘—Mr. Gatz. I thought you might want to take the body west.’
'-先生。盖茨。我想你可能想把尸体带到西方。

He shook his head.
他摇摇头。

‘Jimmy always liked it better down East. He rose up to his position in the East. Were you a friend of my boy’s, Mr.—?’
“吉米总是更喜欢东部地区。他在东方晋升到了自己的地位。你是我儿子的朋友吗，先生？

‘We were close friends.’
“我们是亲密的朋友。”

‘He had a big future before him, you know. He was only a young man but he had a lot of brain power here.’
“你知道，他面前有一个美好的未来。他只是一个年轻人，但他在这里有很多脑力。

He touched his head impressively and I nodded.
他令人印象深刻地摸了摸他的头，我点点头。

‘If he’d of lived he’d of been a great man. A man like James J. Hill. He’d of helped build up the country.’
“如果他还活着，他就会成为一个伟人。”像詹姆斯·J·希尔这样的人。他确实帮助建设了这个国家。

‘That’s true,’ I said, uncomfortably.
“确实如此，”我不安地说。

He fumbled at the embroidered coverlet, trying to take it from the bed, and lay down stiffly—was instantly asleep.
他摸索着绣花被子，想把它从床上拿下来，然后僵硬地躺了下来——很快就睡着了。

That night an obviously frightened person called up and demanded to know who I was before he would give his name.
那天晚上，一个明显受到惊吓的人打电话来，要求先知道我是谁，然后才透露自己的名字。

‘This is Mr. Carraway,’ I said.
“这是卡拉威先生，”我说。

‘Oh—’ He sounded relieved. ‘This is Klipspringer.’
“哦——”他听起来松了口气。 “这是克利普斯普林格。”

I was relieved too for that seemed to promise another friend at Gatsby’s grave. I didn’t want it to be in the papers and draw a sightseeing crowd so I’d been calling up a few people myself. They were hard to find.
我也松了口气，因为这似乎是盖茨比墓前的另一个朋友的承诺。我不想让它出现在报纸上并吸引一大群观光客，所以我自己打电话给了一些人。他们很难找到。

‘The funeral’s tomorrow,’ I said. ‘Three o’clock, here at the house. I wish you’d tell anybody who’d be interested.’
“葬礼明天举行，”我说。 “三点钟，在家里。”我希望你能告诉任何有兴趣的人。

‘Oh, I will,’ he broke out hastily. ‘Of course I’m not likely to see anybody, but if I do.’
“哦，我会的，”他急忙说道。 “当然，我不太可能见到任何人，但如果我见到的话。”

His tone made me suspicious.
他的语气让我起了疑心。

‘Of course you’ll be there yourself.’
“当然，你自己也会在那里。”

‘Well, I’ll certainly try. What I called up about is——‘
‘嗯，我一定会尝试的。我打电话的目的是——‘

‘Wait a minute,’ I interrupted. ‘How about saying you’ll come?’
“等一下，”我打断道。 “说你会来怎么样？”

‘Well, the fact is—the truth of the matter is that I’m staying with some people up here in Greenwich and they rather expect me to be with them tomorrow. In fact there’s a sort of picnic or something. Of course I’ll do my very best to get away.’
“嗯，事实是——事情的真相是，我和格林威治的一些人住在一起，他们宁愿我明天和他们在一起。事实上，有一种野餐什么的。当然，我会尽我所能逃脱。

I ejaculated an unrestrained ‘Huh!’ and he must have heard me for he went on nervously:
我不受控制地“嗯”了一声，他肯定听到了我的声音，紧张地继续说道：

‘What I called up about was a pair of shoes I left there. I wonder if it’d be too much trouble to have the butler send them on. You see they’re tennis shoes and I’m sort of helpless without them. My address is care of B. F.——‘
“我打电话询问的是我留在那儿的一双鞋。不知道让管家送去会不会太麻烦。你看它们是网球鞋，没有它们我有点无助。我的地址是由B. F.转交——‘

I didn’t hear the rest of the name because I hung up the receiver.
我没有听到这个名字的其余部分，因为我挂断了听筒。

After that I felt a certain shame for Gatsby—one gentleman to whom I telephoned implied that he had got what he deserved. However, that was my fault, for he was one of those who used to sneer most bitterly at Gatsby on the courage of Gatsby’s liquor and I should have known better than to call him.
此后，我为盖茨比感到某种耻辱——我打电话给一位绅士暗示他得到了他应得的。然而，那是我的错，因为他是那些曾经因盖茨比的酒的勇气而对盖茨比进行最严厉嘲笑的人之一，我应该知道最好不要打电话给他。

The morning of the funeral I went up to New York to see Meyer Wolfshiem; I couldn’t seem to reach him any other way. The door that I pushed open on the advice of an elevator boy was marked ‘The Swastika Holding Company’ and at first there didn’t seem to be any one inside. But when I’d shouted ‘Hello’ several times in vain an argument broke out behind a partition and presently a lovely Jewess appeared at an interior door and scrutinized me with black hostile eyes.
葬礼那天早上，我去纽约看望迈耶·沃尔夫山姆。我似乎无法通过其他方式联系到他。我按照电梯男孩的建议推开了门，门上写着“万字符控股公司”，一开始里面似乎没有人。但当我徒劳地喊了几声“你好”后，隔板后面爆发了一场争吵，不久，一位可爱的犹太女人出现在内门处，用充满敌意的黑色眼睛审视着我。

‘Nobody’s in,’ she said. ‘Mr. Wolfshiem’s gone to Chicago.’
“没人在里面，”她说。 '先生。沃尔夫山姆去了芝加哥。”

The first part of this was obviously untrue for someone had begun to whistle ‘The Rosary,’ tunelessly, inside.
这第一部分显然是不真实的，因为有人开始在里面吹奏“玫瑰经”，不调调。

‘Please say that Mr. Carraway wants to see him.’
“请说卡拉威先生想见他。”

‘I can’t get him back from Chicago, can I?’
“我不能把他从芝加哥带回来，不是吗？”

At this moment a voice, unmistakably Wolfshiem’s called ‘Stella!’ from the other side of the door.
就在这时，门的另一边传来了一个声音，毫无疑问是沃尔夫希姆的叫声“斯特拉！”。

‘Leave your name on the desk,’ she said quickly. ‘I’ll give it to him when he gets back.’
“把你的名字留在桌子上，”她很快说道。 “等他回来我就把它给他。”

‘But I know he’s there.’
“但我知道他在那儿。”

She took a step toward me and began to slide her hands indignantly up and down her hips.
她朝我走了一步，开始愤怒地用双手在臀部上下滑动。

‘You young men think you can force your way in here any time,’ she scolded. ‘We’re getting sickantired of it. When I say he’s in Chicago, he’s in ChiCAgo.’
“你们这些年轻人以为你们可以随时强行闯入这里，”她斥责道。 ‘我们已经厌倦了。当我说他在芝加哥时，他就在芝加哥。

I mentioned Gatsby.
我提到了盖茨比。

‘Oh—h!’ She looked at me over again. ‘Will you just—what was your name?’
“哦——哈！”她又看了我一眼。 “你能——你叫什么名字？”

She vanished. In a moment Meyer Wolfshiem stood solemnly in the doorway, holding out both hands. He drew me into his office, remarking in a reverent voice that it was a sad time for all of us, and offered me a cigar.
她消失了。过了一会儿，迈尔·沃尔夫山姆庄严地站在门口，伸出双手。他把我拉进他的办公室，用虔诚的声音说这对我们所有人来说都是悲伤的时刻，并递给我一支雪茄。

‘My memory goes back to when I first met him,’ he said. ‘A young major just out of the army and covered over with medals he got in the war. He was so hard up he had to keep on wearing his uniform because he couldn’t buy some regular clothes. First time I saw him was when he come into Winebrenner’s poolroom at Forty-third Street and asked for a job. He hadn’t eat anything for a couple of days. ‘Come on have some lunch with me,’ I sid. He ate more than four dollars’ worth of food in half an hour.’
“我的记忆可以追溯到我第一次见到他时，”他说。 “一位年轻的少校刚刚退伍，身上挂满了他在战争中获得的奖章。他太穷了，不得不继续穿着制服，因为他买不到一些普通的衣服。我第一次见到他是在他走进温布伦纳位于四十三街的撞球室并要求一份工作时。他已经好几天没吃东西了。 “来和我一起吃午饭吧，”我说道。他在半小时内吃了超过四美元的食物。

‘Did you start him in business?’ I inquired.
“你让他开始做生意了吗？”我问道。

‘Start him! I made him.’
‘开始他吧！我创造了他。

‘Oh.’
'哦。'

‘I raised him up out of nothing, right out of the gutter. I saw right away he was a fine appearing, gentlemanly young man, and when he told me he was an Oggsford I knew I could use him good. I got him to join up in the American Legion and he used to stand high there. Right off he did some work for a client of mine up to Albany. We were so thick like that in everything—’ He held up two bulbous fingers ‘—always together.’
“我把他从无到有、从阴沟里扶起来。我立刻就看出他是一个外表英俊、有绅士风度的年轻人，当他告诉我他是奥格斯福德人时，我知道我可以很好地利用他。我让他加入了美国军团，他曾经在那里地位很高。他立即为我的一位客户做了一些工作，一直到奥尔巴尼。我们在所有事情上都如此亲密——”他举起两根球状手指，“——总是在一起。”

I wondered if this partnership had included the World’s Series transaction in 1919.
我想知道这种合作关系是否包括 1919 年世界职业棒球大赛的交易。

‘Now he’s dead,’ I said after a moment. ‘You were his closest friend, so I know you’ll want to come to his funeral this afternoon.’
“现在他死了，”过了一会儿我说道。 “你是他最亲密的朋友，所以我知道你今天下午会想参加他的葬礼。”

‘I’d like to come.’
“我愿意来。”

‘Well, come then.’
“好吧，那就来吧。”

The hair in his nostrils quivered slightly and as he shook his head his eyes filled with tears.
他鼻毛轻轻颤抖，摇摇头，眼里充满了泪水。

‘I can’t do it—I can’t get mixed up in it,’ he said.
“我做不到——我不能卷入其中，”他说。

‘There’s nothing to get mixed up in. It’s all over now.’
“没什么可掺和的。现在一切都结束了。”

‘When a man gets killed I never like to get mixed up in it in any way. I keep out. When I was a young man it was different—if a friend of mine died, no matter how, I stuck with them to the end. You may think that’s sentimental but I mean it—to the bitter end.’
“当一个人被杀时，我从不喜欢以任何方式卷入其中。我不去。当我还是个年轻人的时候，情况就不同了——如果我的一个朋友去世了，无论怎样，我都会和他们在一起直到最后。你可能认为这很感伤，但我是认真的——直到痛苦的结局。

I saw that for some reason of his own he was determined not to come, so I stood up.
我见他因为某种原因坚决不来，我就站了起来。

‘Are you a college man?’ he inquired suddenly.
“你是大学生吗？”他突然问道。

For a moment I thought he was going to suggest a ‘gonnegtion’ but he only nodded and shook my hand.
有那么一刻，我以为他会建议“同意”，但他只是点点头，和我握手。

‘Let us learn to show our friendship for a man when he is alive and not after he is dead,’ he suggested. ‘After that my own rule is to let everything alone.’
“让我们学会在一个人活着的时候表达我们的友谊，而不是在他死后表达我们的友谊，”他建议道。 “在那之后，我自己的规则就是让一切都顺其自然。”

When I left his office the sky had turned dark and I got back to West Egg in a drizzle. After changing my clothes I went next door and found Mr. Gatz walking up and down excitedly in the hall. His pride in his son and in his son’s possessions was continually increasing and now he had something to show me.
当我离开他的办公室时，天已经黑了，我在细雨中回到了西埃格。换好衣服后，我走到隔壁，发现盖茨先生在大厅里兴奋地走来走去。他对儿子和儿子的财产的自豪感不断增强，现在他有东西要给我看。

‘Jimmy sent me this picture.’ He took out his wallet with trembling fingers. ‘Look there.’
“吉米给我发了这张照片。”他用颤抖的手指拿出钱包。 '看这里。'

It was a photograph of the house, cracked in the corners and dirty with many hands. He pointed out every detail to me eagerly. ‘Look there!’ and then sought admiration from my eyes. He had shown it so often that I think it was more real to him now than the house itself.
那是一张房子的照片，角落里有裂缝，而且被很多人手弄脏了。他热切地向我指出每一个细节。 “看那儿！”然后从我的眼中寻求钦佩。他经常展示它，我认为现在对他来说，它比房子本身更真实。

‘Jimmy sent it to me. I think it’s a very pretty picture. It shows up well.’
“吉米把它寄给我了。我认为这是一幅非常漂亮的图画。它显示得很好。

‘Very well. Had you seen him lately?’
'很好。你最近见过他吗？

‘He come out to see me two years ago and bought me the house I live in now. Of course we was broke up when he run off from home but I see now there was a reason for it. He knew he had a big future in front of him. And ever since he made a success he was very generous with me.’
“两年前他来看我，给我买了现在住的房子。当然，当他离家出走时我们就分手了，但我现在明白这是有原因的。他知道自己有一个美好的未来。自从他取得成功后，他对我就非常慷慨。”

He seemed reluctant to put away the picture, held it for another minute, lingeringly, before my eyes. Then he returned the wallet and pulled from his pocket a ragged old copy of a book called ‘Hopalong Cassidy.’
他似乎不愿意把照片收起来，又在我眼前徘徊了一分钟。然后他归还钱包，从口袋里掏出一本破烂的旧书，名叫《霍帕隆·卡西迪》。

‘Look here, this is a book he had when he was a boy. It just shows you.’
“看这里，这是他小时候拥有的一本书。它只是向你展示。

He opened it at the back cover and turned it around for me to see. On the last fly-leaf was printed the word SCHEDULE, and the date September 12th, 1906. And underneath:
他打开后盖，把它翻过来给我看。最后一张扉页上印着“时间表”一词，以及日期 1906 年 9 月 12 日。下面是：

Rise from bed … … … … …. 6.00 A.M.
从床上起来………………。早上 6 点

Dumbbell exercise and wall-scaling … … 6.15-6.30 A.M.
哑铃练习和攀岩墙……上午 6.15-6.30

Study electricity, etc … … … … 7.15-8.15 A.M.
学习电学等………………上午7.15-8.15

Work … … … … … … … 8.30-4.30 P.M.
工作……………………晚上8.30-4.30

Baseball and sports … … … …. 4.30-5.00 P.M.
棒球和体育…………。下午 4.30-5.00

Practice elocution, poise and how to attain it 5.00-6.00 P.M.
下午 5:00 至 6:00 练习演讲、保持镇定以及如何做到这一点

Study needed inventions … … …. . 7.00-9.00 P.M.
研究需要发明…………。 。晚上 7:00-9:00

GENERAL RESOLVES
一般决议

No wasting time at Shafters or [a name, indecipherable]
不要在 Shaafters 或[一个名字，难以辨认]浪费时间

No more smokeing or chewing
不再吸烟或咀嚼

Bath every other day
每隔一天洗澡一次

Read one improving book or magazine per week
每周阅读一本进步书籍或杂志

Save $5.00 [crossed out] $3.00 per week
每周节省 5.00 美元 [划掉] 3.00 美元

Be better to parents
对父母好一点

‘I come across this book by accident,’ said the old man. ‘It just shows you, don’t it?’
“我偶然看到这本书，”老人说。 “它只是向你展示，不是吗？”

‘It just shows you.’
“它只是向你展示。”

‘Jimmy was bound to get ahead. He always had some resolves like this or something. Do you notice what he’s got about improving his mind? He was always great for that. He told me I et like a hog once and I beat him for it.’
“吉米注定会取得成功。他总是有一些诸如此类的决心。你注意到他在改善心智方面做了什么吗？他总是很擅长这一点。他告诉我，我曾经像一头猪一样，因此我打败了他。

He was reluctant to close the book, reading each item aloud and then looking eagerly at me. I think he rather expected me to copy down the list for my own use.
他舍不得合上书，大声地读着每一条内容，然后热切地看着我。我想他更希望我抄下这份清单供自己使用。

A little before three the Lutheran minister arrived from Flushing and I began to look involuntarily out the windows for other cars. So did Gatsby’s father. And as the time passed and the servants came in and stood waiting in the hall, his eyes began to blink anxiously and he spoke of the rain in a worried uncertain way. The minister glanced several times at his watch so I took him aside and asked him to wait for half an hour. But it wasn’t any use. Nobody came.
快到三点时，路德教会牧师从法拉盛赶来，我开始不由自主地向窗外看去，看是否有其他车辆。盖茨比的父亲也是如此。随着时间的流逝，仆人们进来并站在大厅里等待，他的眼睛开始焦急地眨着，他以一种忧心忡忡、不确定的方式谈到雨。部长看了几眼手表，我把他拉到一边，让他等半个小时。但这没有任何用处。没有人来。

About five o’clock our procession of three cars reached the cemetery and stopped in a thick drizzle beside the gate—first a motor hearse, horribly black and wet, then Mr. Gatz and the minister and I in the limousine, and, a little later, four or five servants and the postman from West Egg in Gatsby’s station wagon, all wet to the skin. As we started through the gate into the cemetery I heard a car stop and then the sound of someone splashing after us over the soggy ground. I looked around. It was the man with owl-eyed glasses whom I had found marvelling over Gatsby’s books in the library one night three months before.
大约五点钟，我们的三辆车组成的队伍到达了墓地，在细雨中停在了墓门旁——首先是一辆机动灵车，漆黑得可怕，湿漉漉的，然后是盖茨先生、部长和我坐在豪华轿车里，最后是一辆小灵车。后来，盖茨比的旅行车里有四五个仆人和来自西埃格的邮递员，浑身湿透。当我们穿过大门进入墓地时，我听到一辆汽车停下来，然后有人在潮湿的地面上溅水的声音。我环顾四周。三个月前的一天晚上，我在图书馆发现了那个戴着猫头鹰眼镜的男人，他对盖茨比的书感到惊叹不已。

I’d never seen him since then. I don’t know how he knew about the funeral or even his name. The rain poured down his thick glasses and he took them off and wiped them to see the protecting canvas unrolled from Gatsby’s grave.
从那以后我就再也没有见过他。我不知道他是怎么知道葬礼的事，甚至不知道他的名字。雨水从他厚厚的眼镜上倾泻而下，他摘下眼镜擦拭，看到盖茨比坟墓上的保护帆布展开。

I tried to think about Gatsby then for a moment but he was already too far away and I could only remember, without resentment, that Daisy hadn’t sent a message or a flower. Dimly I heard someone murmur ‘Blessed are the dead that the rain falls on,’ and then the owl-eyed man said ‘Amen to that,’ in a brave voice.
我试着想一想盖茨比，但他已经离我太远了，我只能毫无怨恨地记得黛西没有发信息或送花。我隐隐约约地听到有人低声说：“雨水落在的死者有福了”，然后那个长着猫头鹰眼睛的人用勇敢的声音说“阿门”。

We straggled down quickly through the rain to the cars. Owl-Eyes spoke to me by the gate.
我们在雨中快速地跌跌撞撞地走向汽车。猫头鹰眼在门口对我说话。

‘I couldn’t get to the house,’ he remarked.
“我无法去那所房子，”他说。

‘Neither could anybody else.’
“其他人也不能。”

‘Go on!’ He started. ‘Why, my God! they used to go there by the hundreds.’
“继续！”他开始说道。 ‘为什么，我的上帝！他们曾经成百上千地去那里。

He took off his glasses and wiped them again outside and in.
他摘下眼镜，又把眼镜里里外外擦了一遍。

‘The poor son-of-a-bitch,’ he said.
“这个可怜的王八蛋，”他说。

One of my most vivid memories is of coming back west from prep school and later from college at Christmas time. Those who went farther than Chicago would gather in the old dim Union Station at six o’clock of a December evening with a few Chicago friends already caught up into their own holiday gayeties to bid them a hasty goodbye. I remember the fur coats of the girls returning from Miss This or That’s and the chatter of frozen breath and the hands waving overhead as we caught sight of old acquaintances and the matchings of invitations: ‘Are you going to the Ordways’? the Herseys’? the Schultzes’?’ and the long green tickets clasped tight in our gloved hands. And last the murky yellow cars of the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railroad looking cheerful as Christmas itself on the tracks beside the gate.
我最生动的记忆之一是圣诞节期间从预科学校回到西部，后来又从大学回到西部。那些走得比芝加哥更远的人会在十二月的晚上六点聚集在古老昏暗的联合车站，与一些已经沉浸在节日欢乐中的芝加哥朋友一起匆匆告别。我记得从“这个或那个”小姐那里回来的女孩们的毛皮大衣，当我们看到老熟人和匹配的邀请函时，他们呼吸结冰，双手在头顶挥舞：“你要去奥德威吗？”赫西夫妇？舒尔茨夫妇？”我们戴着手套的手中紧紧地握着长长的绿色门票。最后，芝加哥、密尔沃基和圣保罗铁路的暗黄色车厢在大门旁的铁轨上看起来就像圣诞节本身一样欢快。

When we pulled out into the winter night and the real snow, our snow, began to stretch out beside us and twinkle against the windows, and the dim lights of small Wisconsin stations moved by, a sharp wild brace came suddenly into the air. We drew in deep breaths of it as we walked back from dinner through the cold vestibules, unutterably aware of our identity with this country for one strange hour before we melted indistinguishably into it again.
当我们驶入冬夜时，真正的雪，我们的雪，开始在我们身边伸展开来，在窗户上闪烁，威斯康星小车站的昏暗灯光移动过去，一股尖锐的狂野的支撑突然出现在空气中。当我们吃完晚饭穿过寒冷的前厅走回来时，我们深深地吸了一口气，在奇怪的一个小时里，我们难以言表地意识到我们对这个国家的认同，然后我们又毫无区别地融入了它。

That’s my middle west—not the wheat or the prairies or the lost Swede towns but the thrilling, returning trains of my youth and the street lamps and sleigh bells in the frosty dark and the shadows of holly wreaths thrown by lighted windows on the snow. I am part of that, a little solemn with the feel of those long winters, a little complacent from growing up in the Carraway house in a city where dwellings are still called through decades by a family’s name. I see now that this has been a story of the West, after all—Tom and Gatsby, Daisy and Jordan and I, were all Westerners, and perhaps we possessed some deficiency in common which made us subtly unadaptable to Eastern life.
那是我的中西部——不是小麦、大草原或失落的瑞典城镇，而是我年轻时惊心动魄、返程的火车、寒冷的黑暗中的路灯和雪橇铃，以及灯光窗户投在雪地上的冬青花环的影子。我也是其中的一部分，对那些漫长冬天的感觉感到有点庄严，因为在卡拉威的房子里长大而有点自满，在这个城市里，几十年来住宅仍然以家族的名字命名。现在我明白了，这毕竟是西方的故事——汤姆和盖茨比、黛西和乔丹以及我都是西方人，也许我们有一些共同的缺陷，使我们微妙地不适应东方的生活。

Even when the East excited me most, even when I was most keenly aware of its superiority to the bored, sprawling, swollen towns beyond the Ohio, with their interminable inquisitions which spared only the children and the very old—even then it had always for me a quality of distortion. West Egg especially still figures in my more fantastic dreams. I see it as a night scene by El Greco: a hundred houses, at once conventional and grotesque, crouching under a sullen, overhanging sky and a lustreless moon. In the foreground four solemn men in dress suits are walking along the sidewalk with a stretcher on which lies a drunken woman in a white evening dress. Her hand, which dangles over the side, sparkles cold with jewels. Gravely the men turn in at a house—the wrong house. But no one knows the woman’s name, and no one cares.
即使当东方最让我兴奋的时候，即使当我最敏锐地意识到它比俄亥俄河以东那些无聊、蔓延、膨胀的城镇优越时，那里的城镇无休无止的调查，只幸免于孩子和老人——即使在那时，它总是我的品质是扭曲的。尤其是西埃格仍然出现在我更梦幻的梦中。我把它看作埃尔·格列柯的夜景：一百座房子，既传统又怪诞，蹲伏在阴沉、悬垂的天空和黯淡的月亮下。前景中，四个穿着正装、表情严肃的男人抬着担架沿着人行道行走，担架上躺着一个穿着白色晚礼服的醉酒女人。她垂在身侧的手上闪烁着冰冷的珠宝光芒。男人们严肃地走进一所房子——走错了房子。但没有人知道这个女人的名字，也没有人关心。

After Gatsby’s death the East was haunted for me like that, distorted beyond my eyes’ power of correction. So when the blue smoke of brittle leaves was in the air and the wind blew the wet laundry stiff on the line I decided to come back home.
盖茨比死后，东方对我来说就像是一个噩梦，扭曲得超出了我的眼睛的纠正能力。因此，当空气中弥漫着脆树叶的蓝色烟雾，风把晾在绳子上的湿衣服吹得僵硬时，我决定回家。

There was one thing to be done before I left, an awkward, unpleasant thing that perhaps had better have been let alone. But I wanted to leave things in order and not just trust that obliging and indifferent sea to sweep my refuse away. I saw Jordan Baker and talked over and around what had happened to us together and what had happened afterward to me, and she lay perfectly still listening in a big chair.
在我离开之前还有一件事要做，一件尴尬、不愉快的事情，也许最好别管它。但我想让一切井井有条，而不是仅仅相信那片殷勤而冷漠的大海会扫走我的垃圾。我看到乔丹·贝克，一遍又一遍地谈论我们一起发生的事情以及后来发生在我身上的事情，而她一动不动地躺在一张大椅子上听着。

She was dressed to play golf and I remember thinking she looked like a good illustration, her chin raised a little, jauntily, her hair the color of an autumn leaf, her face the same brown tint as the fingerless glove on her knee. When I had finished she told me without comment that she was engaged to another man. I doubted that though there were several she could have married at a nod of her head but I pretended to be surprised. For just a minute I wondered if I wasn’t making a mistake, then I thought it all over again quickly and got up to say goodbye.
她穿着打高尔夫球的衣服，我记得我觉得她看起来像一个很好的插图，她的下巴轻快地扬起一点，她的头发是秋天树叶的颜色，她的脸和她膝盖上的无指手套一样是棕色的。当我讲完后，她没有评论地告诉我她已经和另一个男人订婚了。我怀疑虽然有好几个她只要点头就能结婚，但我假装很惊讶。有那么一分钟，我怀疑自己是否犯了一个错误，然后我很快又想了一遍，然后起身告别。

‘Nevertheless you did throw me over,’ said Jordan suddenly. ‘You threw me over on the telephone. I don’t give a damn about you now but it was a new experience for me and I felt a little dizzy for a while.’
“尽管如此，你还是把我扔了。”乔丹突然说道。 “你在电话里把我扔了。我现在不在乎你了，但这对我来说是一次新的经历，有一段时间我感到有点头晕。

We shook hands.
我们握手了。

‘Oh, and do you remember—’ she added, ‘——a conversation we had once about driving a car?’
“哦，你还记得吗——”她补充道，“——我们曾经有过一次关于开车的谈话？”

‘Why—not exactly.’
“为什么——不完全是。”

‘You said a bad driver was only safe until she met another bad driver? Well, I met another bad driver, didn’t I? I mean it was careless of me to make such a wrong guess. I thought you were rather an honest, straightforward person. I thought it was your secret pride.’
‘你说一个坏司机只有遇到另一个坏司机才安全？好吧，我又遇到了一个坏司机，不是吗？我的意思是我太粗心了，做出了这样错误的猜测。我觉得你是一个比较诚实、直率的人。我以为这是你秘密的骄傲。

‘I’m thirty,’ I said. ‘I’m five years too old to lie to myself and call it honor.’
“我三十岁了，”我说。 “我已经五岁了，不能对自己撒谎并称之为荣誉。”

She didn’t answer. Angry, and half in love with her, and tremendously sorry, I turned away.
她没有回答。我很生气，又有点爱她，同时又非常抱歉，我转身走了。

One afternoon late in October I saw Tom Buchanan. He was walking ahead of me along Fifth Avenue in his alert, aggressive way, his hands out a little from his body as if to fight off interference, his head moving sharply here and there, adapting itself to his restless eyes. Just as I slowed up to avoid overtaking him he stopped and began frowning into the windows of a jewelry store. Suddenly he saw me and walked back holding out his hand.
十月下旬的一个下午，我见到了汤姆·布坎南。他在第五大道上走在我前面，神情警惕、咄咄逼人，他的双手稍微从身体上伸出，仿佛是为了抵御干扰，他的头左右猛烈地移动，以适应他不安的眼睛。正当我放慢速度以避免超越他时，他停了下来，开始皱着眉头看着一家珠宝店的橱窗。突然他看到了我，走回来伸出了手。

‘What’s the matter, Nick? Do you object to shaking hands with me?’
‘怎么了，尼克？你反对和我握手吗？

‘Yes. You know what I think of you.’
'是的。你知道我对你的看法。

‘You’re crazy, Nick,’ he said quickly. ‘Crazy as hell. I don’t know what’s the matter with you.’
“你疯了，尼克，”他很快说道。 ‘简直疯了。我不知道你怎么了。

‘Tom,’ I inquired, ‘what did you say to Wilson that afternoon?’
“汤姆，”我问道，“那天下午你对威尔逊说了什么？”

He stared at me without a word and I knew I had guessed right about those missing hours. I started to turn away but he took a step after me and grabbed my arm.
他一言不发地盯着我，我知道我对那些缺失的时间的猜测是正确的。我正要转身走开，但他在我身后迈出了一步，抓住了我的手臂。

‘I told him the truth,’ he said. ‘He came to the door while we were getting ready to leave and when I sent down word that we weren’t in he tried to force his way upstairs. He was crazy enough to kill me if I hadn’t told him who owned the car. His hand was on a revolver in his pocket every minute he was in the house——’ He broke off defiantly. ‘What if I did tell him? That fellow had it coming to him. He threw dust into your eyes just like he did in Daisy’s but he was a tough one. He ran over Myrtle like you’d run over a dog and never even stopped his car.’
“我告诉了他真相，”他说。 “当我们准备离开时，他来到了门口，当我传出我们不在的消息时，他试图强行上楼。如果我不告诉他这辆车的主人是谁，他一定会疯到杀了我。他在家里的每一分钟都把手放在口袋里的左轮手枪上——”他挑衅地打断了话。 ‘如果我告诉他怎么办？那家伙是来找他的。他把灰尘扔进你的眼睛里，就像他对黛西的眼睛所做的那样，但他是一个强硬的人。他像碾压狗一样碾压默特尔，甚至没有停下他的车。”

There was nothing I could say, except the one unutterable fact that it wasn’t true.
我无话可说，除了一个无法言说的事实：这不是真的。

‘And if you think I didn’t have my share of suffering—look here, when I went to give up that flat and saw that damn box of dog biscuits sitting there on the sideboard I sat down and cried like a baby. By God it was awful——‘
“如果你认为我没有遭受过同样的痛苦——看看这里，当我打算放弃那套公寓时，看到那盒该死的狗饼干放在餐具柜上，我坐下来哭得像个婴儿。天哪，这太可怕了——”

I couldn’t forgive him or like him but I saw that what he had done was, to him, entirely justified. It was all very careless and confused. They were careless people, Tom and Daisy—they smashed up things and creatures and then retreated back into their money or their vast carelessness or whatever it was that kept them together, and let other people clean up the mess they had made….
我无法原谅他或喜欢他，但我看到他所做的对他来说是完全合理的。一切都非常粗心和混乱。他们是粗心的人，汤姆和黛西——他们砸碎了东西和生物，然后又退回到他们的金钱或他们巨大的粗心或任何让他们在一起的东西中，让其他人来收拾他们造成的混乱……。

I shook hands with him; it seemed silly not to, for I felt suddenly as though I were talking to a child. Then he went into the jewelry store to buy a pearl necklace—or perhaps only a pair of cuff buttons—rid of my provincial squeamishness forever.
我和他握手；不这样做似乎很愚蠢，因为我突然觉得自己好像在和一个孩子说话。然后他走进珠宝店买了一条珍珠项链——或者也许只是一对袖扣——永远摆脱了我乡下的拘谨。

Gatsby’s house was still empty when I left—the grass on his lawn had grown as long as mine. One of the taxi drivers in the village never took a fare past the entrance gate without stopping for a minute and pointing inside; perhaps it was he who drove Daisy and Gatsby over to East Egg the night of the accident and perhaps he had made a story about it all his own. I didn’t want to hear it and I avoided him when I got off the train.
我离开时盖茨比的房子仍然空着——他草坪上的草已经长到和我的一样长了。村里的一个出租车司机每次付钱经过大门时，都会停下来指指里面。也许事故发生当晚就是他开车送黛西和盖茨比去东卵的，也许他自己编造了一个关于这件事的故事。我不想听，下了车就避开了他。

I spent my Saturday nights in New York because those gleaming, dazzling parties of his were with me so vividly that I could still hear the music and the laughter faint and incessant from his garden and the cars going up and down his drive. One night I did hear a material car there and saw its lights stop at his front steps. But I didn’t investigate. Probably it was some final guest who had been away at the ends of the earth and didn’t know that the party was over.
我在纽约度过了周六的夜晚，因为他的那些闪闪发光、令人眼花缭乱的聚会如此生动地伴随着我，我仍然可以听到他花园里隐约传来的音乐和笑声，以及他车道上来来往往的汽车。一天晚上，我确实听到了一辆物质汽车的声音，并看到它的灯光停在他的门前台阶上。但我没有调查。可能是最后一位客人远在天涯海角，并不知道聚会已经结束。

On the last night, with my trunk packed and my car sold to the grocer, I went over and looked at that huge incoherent failure of a house once more. On the white steps an obscene word, scrawled by some boy with a piece of brick, stood out clearly in the moonlight and I erased it, drawing my shoe raspingly along the stone. Then I wandered down to the beach and sprawled out on the sand.
昨晚，我收拾好行李箱，把车卖给了杂货店，我走过去，再次审视这座房子的巨大、语无伦次的失败。白色的台阶上有一个男孩用一块砖头潦草地写下的淫秽字样，在月光下清晰可见，我擦掉了它，我的鞋子沿着石头沙沙作响。然后我漫步到海滩，四肢摊开在沙滩上。

Most of the big shore places were closed now and there were hardly any lights except the shadowy, moving glow of a ferryboat across the Sound. And as the moon rose higher the inessential houses began to melt away until gradually I became aware of the old island here that flowered once for Dutch sailors’ eyes—a fresh, green breast of the new world. Its vanished trees, the trees that had made way for Gatsby’s house, had once pandered in whispers to the last and greatest of all human dreams; for a transitory enchanted moment man must have held his breath in the presence of this continent, compelled into an aesthetic contemplation he neither understood nor desired, face to face for the last time in history with something commensurate to his capacity for wonder.
现在大多数大的岸边都关门了，除了海峡上一艘渡船移动的朦胧光芒之外，几乎没有任何灯光。随着月亮升得更高，那些无关紧要的房屋开始消失，直到我逐渐意识到这里曾经在荷兰水手眼中绽放的古老岛屿——新世界的新鲜、绿色的胸膛。那里消失的树木，那些为盖茨比的房子让路的树木，曾经在低声中迎合着人类最后也是最伟大的梦想。在短暂而迷人的时刻，人类一定会在这片大陆面前屏住呼吸，被迫陷入一种他既不理解也不渴望的审美沉思，这是历史上最后一次与与他的惊奇能力相称的东西面对面。

And as I sat there brooding on the old, unknown world, I thought of Gatsby’s wonder when he first picked out the green light at the end of Daisy’s dock. He had come a long way to this blue lawn and his dream must have seemed so close that he could hardly fail to grasp it. He did not know that it was already behind him, somewhere back in that vast obscurity beyond the city, where the dark fields of the republic rolled on under the night.
当我坐在那里沉思那个古老的、未知的世界时，我想起了盖茨比第一次看到黛西码头尽头的绿灯时的惊奇。他走了很长的路才来到这片蓝色的草坪，他的梦想一定看起来如此接近，他几乎不可能抓不到它。他不知道它已经在他身后，在城市之外那片广阔的黑暗中的某个地方，共和国的黑暗田野在夜色下滚动。

Gatsby believed in the green light, the orgastic future that year by year recedes before us. It eluded us then, but that’s no matter—tomorrow we will run faster, stretch out our arms farther…. And one fine morning——
盖茨比相信绿灯，相信狂欢的未来在我们面前年复一年地退去。当时我们没有想到，但没关系——明天我们会跑得更快，手臂伸得更远……。还有一个美好的早晨——

So we beat on, boats against the current, borne back ceaselessly into the past.
于是我们逆流而上，不断地回到过去。

THE END
结束