
Tarzan of the Apes
人猿泰山

By Edgar Rice Burroughs
作者：埃德加·赖斯·巴勒斯

Chapter 1
第1章


Out to Sea
出海

I had this story from one who had no business to tell it to me, or to any other. I may credit the seductive influence of an old vintage upon the narrator for the beginning of it, and my own skeptical incredulity during the days that followed for the balance of the strange tale.
我从一个无权告诉我或任何其他人的人那里得到了这个故事。我可以把故事的开头归功于一个古老的年份对叙述者的诱人影响，以及我自己在接下来的日子里的怀疑和怀疑，以平衡这个奇怪的故事。

When my convivial host discovered that he had told me so much, and that I was prone to doubtfulness, his foolish pride assumed the task the old vintage had commenced, and so he unearthed written evidence in the form of musty manuscript, and dry official records of the British Colonial Office to support many of the salient features of his remarkable narrative.
当我的好客的主人发现他告诉了我这么多，而我很容易怀疑时，他愚蠢的骄傲承担了旧年份开始的任务，因此他以发霉的手稿和干燥的官方记录的形式挖掘出书面证据。英国殖民部的支持，以支持他非凡叙述的许多显着特征。

I do not say the story is true, for I did not witness the happenings which it portrays, but the fact that in the telling of it to you I have taken fictitious names for the principal characters quite sufficiently evidences the sincerity of my own belief that it MAY be true.
我并不是说这个故事是真实的，因为我没有亲眼目睹它所描述的事件，但在向你们讲述这个故事时，我为主要人物取了虚构的名字，这一事实充分证明了我自己的信念的真诚：这可能是真的。

The yellow, mildewed pages of the diary of a man long dead, and the records of the Colonial Office dovetail perfectly with the narrative of my convivial host, and so I give you the story as I painstakingly pieced it out from these several various agencies.
一个早已死去的人的发黄、发霉的日记，以及殖民地办公室的记录，与我那欢乐的东道主的叙述完美吻合，所以我把这个故事告诉你，是我从这几个不同的机构中煞费苦心地拼凑出来的。

If you do not find it credible you will at least be as one with me in acknowledging that it is unique, remarkable, and interesting.
如果你觉得它不可信，你至少会和我一样承认它是独特的、非凡的和有趣的。

From the records of the Colonial Office and from the dead man’s diary we learn that a certain young English nobleman, whom we shall call John Clayton, Lord Greystoke, was commissioned to make a peculiarly delicate investigation of conditions in a British West Coast African Colony from whose simple native inhabitants another European power was known to be recruiting soldiers for its native army, which it used solely for the forcible collection of rubber and ivory from the savage tribes along the Congo and the Aruwimi. The natives of the British Colony complained that many of their young men were enticed away through the medium of fair and glowing promises, but that few if any ever returned to their families.
从殖民地办公室的记录和死者的日记中，我们了解到，一位年轻的英国贵族，我们称他为约翰·克莱顿，格雷斯托克勋爵，受命对英国西海岸非洲殖民地的情况进行一项特别细致的调查。据了解，另一个欧洲强国正在为其本土军队招募士兵，这些军队仅用于从刚果和阿鲁维米沿岸的野蛮部落强行收集橡胶和象牙。英国殖民地的原住民抱怨说，他们的许多年轻人被公平和热情的承诺所诱惑而离开，但很少有人回到家人身边。

The Englishmen in Africa went even further, saying that these poor blacks were held in virtual slavery, since after their terms of enlistment expired their ignorance was imposed upon by their white officers, and they were told that they had yet several years to serve.
非洲的英国人走得更远，他们说这些可怜的黑人实际上被当作奴隶，因为他们的服役期满后，他们的无知被白人军官强加给他们，并被告知他们还有几年的服役时间。

And so the Colonial Office appointed John Clayton to a new post in British West Africa, but his confidential instructions centered on a thorough investigation of the unfair treatment of black British subjects by the officers of a friendly European power. Why he was sent, is, however, of little moment to this story, for he never made an investigation, nor, in fact, did he ever reach his destination.
因此，殖民部任命约翰·克莱顿在英属西非担任新职务，但他的机密指示集中在对一个友好的欧洲国家的官员对英国黑人臣民的不公平待遇进行彻底调查。然而，他被派去的原因对于这个故事来说并不重要，因为他从未进行过调查，事实上，他也从未到达目的地。

Clayton was the type of Englishman that one likes best to associate with the noblest monuments of historic achievement upon a thousand victorious battlefields—a strong, virile man —mentally, morally, and physically.
克莱顿是这样一种英国人，人们最喜欢将他与上千场胜利战场上最崇高的历史成就联系在一起——一个在精神上、道德上和身体上都坚强、有男子气概的人。

In stature he was above the average height; his eyes were gray, his features regular and strong; his carriage that of perfect, robust health influenced by his years of army training.
他的身材高于平均身高。他的眼睛是灰色的，五官端正而坚强。他的举止完美、健康，这得益于他多年的军队训练。

Political ambition had caused him to seek transference from the army to the Colonial Office and so we find him, still young, entrusted with a delicate and important commission in the service of the Queen.
政治野心促使他寻求从军队调到殖民部，因此我们发现他还年轻，被委以一项为女王服务的微妙而重要的使命。

When he received this appointment he was both elated and appalled. The preferment seemed to him in the nature of a well-merited reward for painstaking and intelligent service, and as a stepping stone to posts of greater importance and responsibility; but, on the other hand, he had been married to the Hon. Alice Rutherford for scarce a three months, and it was the thought of taking this fair young girl into the dangers and isolation of tropical Africa that appalled him.
当他接到这个任命时，他既高兴又震惊。在他看来，这次晋升是对辛勤而聪明的服务的应得奖励，也是通往更重要和责任更大的职位的踏脚石。但另一方面，他已与阁下结婚。爱丽丝·卢瑟福呆了不到三个月，一想到要把这个美丽的年轻女孩带入危险和孤立的热带非洲，他就感到震惊。

For her sake he would have refused the appointment, but she would not have it so. Instead she insisted that he accept, and, indeed, take her with him.
为了她，他会拒绝这个约会，但她不会这样。相反，她坚持要求他接受，并且确实带她一起去。

There were mothers and brothers and sisters, and aunts and cousins to express various opinions on the subject, but as to what they severally advised history is silent.
有母亲、兄弟姐妹、阿姨和表兄弟姐妹就这个问题表达了不同的意见，但至于他们各自的建议，历史却没有记载。

We know only that on a bright May morning in 1888, John, Lord Greystoke, and Lady Alice sailed from Dover on their way to Africa.
我们只知道，1888 年五月一个阳光明媚的早晨，约翰、格雷斯托克勋爵和爱丽丝夫人从多佛出发前往非洲。

A month later they arrived at Freetown where they chartered a small sailing vessel, the Fuwalda, which was to bear them to their final destination.
一个月后，他们抵达弗里敦，租用了一艘小型帆船“福瓦尔达”号，将他们运送到最终目的地。

And here John, Lord Greystoke, and Lady Alice, his wife, vanished from the eyes and from the knowledge of men.
在这里，约翰、格雷斯托克勋爵和他的妻子爱丽丝夫人从人们的视野和知识中消失了。

Two months after they weighed anchor and cleared from the port of Freetown a half dozen British war vessels were scouring the south Atlantic for trace of them or their little vessel, and it was almost immediately that the wreckage was found upon the shores of St. Helena which convinced the world that the Fuwalda had gone down with all on board, and hence the search was stopped ere it had scarce begun; though hope lingered in longing hearts for many years.
他们起锚并离开弗里敦港两个月后，六艘英国战舰正在南大西洋搜寻他们或他们的小船的踪迹，几乎立即在圣赫勒拿海岸发现了残骸这让全世界相信“福瓦尔达”号已经沉没，船上所有人都已沉没，因此搜索工作还没开始就停止了；尽管希望多年来一直在渴望的心中徘徊。

The Fuwalda, a barkentine of about one hundred tons, was a vessel of the type often seen in coastwise trade in the far southern Atlantic, their crews composed of the offscourings of the sea—unhanged murderers and cutthroats of every race and every nation.
富瓦尔达号是一艘重约一百吨的巴肯坦号，是一种在远南大西洋沿海贸易中常见的船只，其船员由海洋中的残骸组成——来自各个种族和各个国家的未绞死的凶手和凶手。

The Fuwalda was no exception to the rule. Her officers were swarthy bullies, hating and hated by their crew. The captain, while a competent seaman, was a brute in his treatment of his men. He knew, or at least he used, but two arguments in his dealings with them—a belaying pin and a revolver—nor is it likely that the motley aggregation he signed would have understood aught else.
富瓦尔达也不例外。她的军官们都是皮肤黝黑的恶霸，深受船员们的憎恨和憎恨。船长虽然是一位能干的海员，但他对待手下的方式却很残忍。他知道，或者至少他使用过，但是他在与他们打交道时有两个论点——一根保护销和一把左轮手枪——他签名的杂七杂八的聚合体也不太可能理解其他任何东西。

So it was that from the second day out from Freetown John Clayton and his young wife witnessed scenes upon the deck of the Fuwalda such as they had believed were never enacted outside the covers of printed stories of the sea.
就这样，从弗里敦出发的第二天起，约翰·克莱顿和他年轻的妻子就在福瓦尔达号的甲板上亲眼目睹了这样的场景，他们相信这些场景在印刷的海洋故事封面之外从未上演过。

It was on the morning of the second day that the first link was forged in what was destined to form a chain of circumstances ending in a life for one then unborn such as has never been paralleled in the history of man.
第二天早上，第一个环节就形成了，注定会形成一连串的环境，最终导致一个尚未出生的人的生命结束，这在人类历史上是前所未有的。

Two sailors were washing down the decks of the Fuwalda, the first mate was on duty, and the captain had stopped to speak with John Clayton and Lady Alice.
两名水手正在冲洗福瓦尔达号的甲板，大副正在值班，船长停下来与约翰·克莱顿和爱丽丝女士交谈。

The men were working backwards toward the little party who were facing away from the sailors. Closer and closer they came, until one of them was directly behind the captain. In another moment he would have passed by and this strange narrative would never have been recorded.
男人们正在向后退，朝着背对水手的一小群人走去。他们越来越近，直到其中一人来到了船长的正后方。再过一会儿他就会经过，这个奇怪的故事就永远不会被记录下来。

But just that instant the officer turned to leave Lord and Lady Greystoke, and, as he did so, tripped against the sailor and sprawled headlong upon the deck, overturning the waterpail so that he was drenched in its dirty contents.
但就在那一刻，军官转身离开格雷斯托克勋爵和夫人，当他这样做时，被水手绊了一跤，一头栽倒在甲板上，打翻了水桶，让他被里面的脏东西淋湿了。

For an instant the scene was ludicrous; but only for an instant. With a volley of awful oaths, his face suffused with the scarlet of mortification and rage, the captain regained his feet, and with a terrific blow felled the sailor to the deck.
刹那间，场面变得荒唐可笑。但只是一瞬间。船长发出一连串可怕的咒骂，脸上充满了屈辱和愤怒的猩红，他重新站了起来，一记可怕的打击将水手打倒在甲板上。

The man was small and rather old, so that the brutality of the act was thus accentuated. The other seaman, however, was neither old nor small—a huge bear of a man, with fierce black mustachios, and a great bull neck set between massive shoulders.
这名男子身材矮小，年纪又大，因此行为的残忍程度更加凸显。然而，另一名水手既不老也不小——一个体型巨大的男人，留着凶猛的黑胡子，粗壮的肩膀之间有一个巨大的牛颈。

As he saw his mate go down he crouched, and, with a low snarl, sprang upon the captain crushing him to his knees with a single mighty blow.
当他看到他的副手倒下时，他蹲下身子，低声咆哮，猛地一击，猛地扑向船长，把他压倒在地。

From scarlet the officer’s face went white, for this was mutiny; and mutiny he had met and subdued before in his brutal career. Without waiting to rise he whipped a revolver from his pocket, firing point blank at the great mountain of muscle towering before him; but, quick as he was, John Clayton was almost as quick, so that the bullet which was intended for the sailor’s heart lodged in the sailor’s leg instead, for Lord Greystoke had struck down the captain’s arm as he had seen the weapon flash in the sun.
军官的脸色从猩红变成了惨白，因为这是叛变。在他残酷的职业生涯中，他曾经遇到过并制服过叛变。他没等站起来，就从口袋里掏出一把左轮手枪，对着他面前高耸的肌肉大山开枪。但是，尽管约翰·克莱顿速度很快，但他也几乎同样快，因此原本要射中水手心脏的子弹却卡在了水手的腿上，因为格雷斯托克勋爵看到船长的手臂在闪光，他已经击中了船长的手臂。太阳。

Words passed between Clayton and the captain, the former making it plain that he was disgusted with the brutality displayed toward the crew, nor would he countenance anything further of the kind while he and Lady Greystoke remained passengers.
克莱顿和船长之间进行了交谈，前者明确表示，他对针对船员的残暴行为感到厌恶，并且在他和格雷斯托克夫人仍然是乘客时，他也不会支持任何进一步的此类行为。

The captain was on the point of making an angry reply, but, thinking better of it, turned on his heel and black and scowling, strode aft.
船长正想生气地回答，但转念一想，他转过身来，脸色黝黑，皱着眉头，大步向船尾走去。

He did not care to antagonize an English official, for the Queen’s mighty arm wielded a punitive instrument which he could appreciate, and which he feared—England’s far-reaching navy.
他不想与英国官员对抗，因为女王强大的手臂挥舞着一个他欣赏但又害怕的惩罚工具——影响深远的英国海军。

The two sailors picked themselves up, the older man assisting his wounded comrade to rise. The big fellow, who was known among his mates as Black Michael, tried his leg gingerly, and, finding that it bore his weight, turned to Clayton with a word of gruff thanks.
两名水手站了起来，年长的水手帮助他受伤的战友站了起来。这个被他的伙伴们称为“黑迈克尔”的大块头小心翼翼地试了试他的腿，发现它能承受他的重量，于是转向克莱顿，粗声粗气地说了声谢谢。

Though the fellow’s tone was surly, his words were evidently well meant. Ere he had scarce finished his little speech he had turned and was limping off toward the forecastle with the very apparent intention of forestalling any further conversation.
虽然这家伙的语气很不爽，但他的话显然是善意的。他的简短演讲还没结束，他就转身一瘸一拐地朝艏楼走去，显然是想阻止进一步的谈话。

They did not see him again for several days, nor did the captain accord them more than the surliest of grunts when he was forced to speak to them.
他们已经好几天没有再见到他了，当船长被迫与他们说话时，也只是对他们发出最粗暴的咕哝声。

They took their meals in his cabin, as they had before the unfortunate occurrence; but the captain was careful to see that his duties never permitted him to eat at the same time.
他们在他的小屋里吃饭，就像不幸事件发生之前一样。但船长很小心，他的职责不允许他同时吃饭。

The other officers were coarse, illiterate fellows, but little above the villainous crew they bullied, and were only too glad to avoid social intercourse with the polished English noble and his lady, so that the Claytons were left very much to themselves.
其他军官都是粗鲁、文盲的家伙，但比他们欺负的邪恶船员高出一点点，而且非常高兴避免与优雅的英国贵族和他的夫人进行社交交往，因此克莱顿一家只能独自一人。

This in itself accorded perfectly with their desires, but it also rather isolated them from the life of the little ship so that they were unable to keep in touch with the daily happenings which were to culminate so soon in bloody tragedy.
这本身完全符合他们的愿望，但也使他们与小船上的生活隔绝，使他们无法与日常发生的事情保持联系，而这些事件很快就会导致血腥的悲剧。

There was in the whole atmosphere of the craft that undefinable something which presages disaster. Outwardly, to the knowledge of the Claytons, all went on as before upon the little vessel; but that there was an undertow leading them toward some unknown danger both felt, though they did not speak of it to each other.
整个飞船的气氛中有一种无法定义的东西，预示着灾难。表面上，据克莱顿夫妇所知，小船上的一切都和以前一样。但有一股暗流引导他们走向某种未知的危险，尽管他们彼此没有提及，但他们都感觉到了。

On the second day after the wounding of Black Michael, Clayton came on deck just in time to see the limp body of one of the crew being carried below by four of his fellows while the first mate, a heavy belaying pin in his hand, stood glowering at the little party of sullen sailors.
黑迈克尔受伤的第二天，克莱顿及时来到甲板上，看到一名船员的软弱的身体被他的四名同伴抬到了下面，而大副手里拿着一根沉重的系绳销，站在那儿。怒视着一小群闷闷不乐的水手。

Clayton asked no questions—he did not need to—and the following day, as the great lines of a British battleship grew out of the distant horizon, he half determined to demand that he and Lady Alice be put aboard her, for his fears were steadily increasing that nothing but harm could result from remaining on the lowering, sullen Fuwalda.
克莱顿没有问任何问题——他不需要——第二天，当一艘英国战列舰的巨大线条从遥远的地平线升起时，他半决定要求让他和爱丽丝女士登上她的船，因为他担心不断增加的事实是，留在低沉、闷闷不乐的福瓦尔达上只会造成伤害。

Toward noon they were within speaking distance of the British vessel, but when Clayton had nearly decided to ask the captain to put them aboard her, the obvious ridiculousness of such a request became suddenly apparent. What reason could he give the officer commanding her majesty’s ship for desiring to go back in the direction from which he had just come!
中午时分，他们已经距离英国船只不远了，但当克莱顿几乎决定要求船长把他们带上她时，这种要求的明显荒谬性突然变得显而易见。他有什么理由让指挥女王陛下的舰艇的军官想要返回他刚刚来的方向！

What if he told them that two insubordinate seamen had been roughly handled by their officers? They would but laugh in their sleeves and attribute his reason for wishing to leave the ship to but one thing—cowardice.
如果他告诉他们两名不服从命令的海员遭到了军官的粗暴对待怎么办？他们只会暗自嘲笑他想要离开这艘船的原因只有一件事——胆怯。

John Clayton, Lord Greystoke, did not ask to be transferred to the British man-of-war. Late in the afternoon he saw her upper works fade below the far horizon, but not before he learned that which confirmed his greatest fears, and caused him to curse the false pride which had restrained him from seeking safety for his young wife a few short hours before, when safety was within reach—a safety which was now gone forever.
格雷斯托克勋爵约翰·克莱顿并没有要求调到英国战舰上。下午晚些时候，他看到她的上部作品消失在遥远的地平线以下，但在此之前，他得知这证实了他最大的恐惧，并让他咒骂虚假的骄傲，这种骄傲阻止他在短短几个小时内为他年轻的妻子寻求安全。以前，安全触手可及，但现在安全已经一去不复返了。

It was mid-afternoon that brought the little old sailor, who had been felled by the captain a few days before, to where Clayton and his wife stood by the ship’s side watching the ever diminishing outlines of the great battleship. The old fellow was polishing brasses, and as he came edging along until close to Clayton he said, in an undertone:
下午三点左右，这位几天前被船长打倒的小老水手来到了克莱顿和他的妻子站在船边的地方，看着这艘伟大战舰的轮廓不断缩小。老家伙正在打磨黄铜，当他慢慢靠近克莱顿时，他低声说道：

‘‘Ell’s to pay, sir, on this ‘ere craft, an’ mark my word for it, sir. ‘Ell’s to pay.’
“先生，我们将支付这艘船的费用，请记住我的话，先生。” “埃尔要付钱。”

‘What do you mean, my good fellow?’ asked Clayton.
“你这是什么意思，我的好朋友？”克莱顿问。

‘Wy, hasn’t ye seen wats goin’ on? Hasn’t ye ‘eard that devil’s spawn of a capting an’ is mates knockin’ the bloomin’ lights outen ‘arf the crew?
‘哎呀，你们没看到发生了什么吗？难道你们没有听到魔鬼的捕获和同伴们敲响盛开的灯光来灭掉船员吗？

‘Two busted ‘eads yeste’day, an’ three to-day. Black Michael’s as good as new agin an’ ‘e’s not the bully to stand fer it, not ‘e; an’ mark my word for it, sir.’
“昨天有两个‘头球’被破坏，今天有三个‘头球’被破坏。”布莱克·迈克尔和新时代一样出色，而且他不是一个能忍受它的恶霸，不是； “记住我的话，先生。”

‘You mean, my man, that the crew contemplates mutiny?’ asked Clayton.
“你的意思是，老兄，船员们正在考虑叛变？”克莱顿问道。

‘Mutiny!’ exclaimed the old fellow. ‘Mutiny! They means murder, sir, an’ mark my word for it, sir.’
“叛变！”老家伙惊呼道。 '兵变！它们意味着谋杀，先生，请记住我的话，先生。”

‘When?’
'什么时候？'

‘Hit’s comin’, sir; hit’s comin’ but I’m not a-sayin’ wen, an’ I’ve said too damned much now, but ye was a good sort t’other day an’ I thought it no more’n right to warn ye. But keep a still tongue in yer ‘ead an’ when ye ‘ear shootin’ git below an’ stay there.
“打击即将到来”，先生；热门即将到来，但我不是说文，我现在已经说了太多该死的了，但那天你是个好人，我认为警告你不再合适了。但是，当你的“耳朵向下方射击”并停留在那里时，请保持你的“头部”不动。

‘That’s all, only keep a still tongue in yer ‘ead, or they’ll put a pill between yer ribs, an’ mark my word for it, sir,’ and the old fellow went on with his polishing, which carried him away from where the Claytons were standing.
“就这样了，只要在你的头上保持安静，否则他们会在你的肋骨之间放一颗药丸，并记住我的话，先生，”老家伙继续他的抛光，这让他离开了从克莱顿夫妇站立的地方望去。

‘Deuced cheerful outlook, Alice,’ said Clayton.
“爱丽丝，前景乐观。”克莱顿说。

‘You should warn the captain at once, John. Possibly the trouble may yet be averted,’ she said.
“你应该立即警告船长，约翰。或许麻烦还是可以避免的，”她说。

‘I suppose I should, but yet from purely selfish motives I am almost prompted to ‘keep a still tongue in my ‘ead.’ Whatever they do now they will spare us in recognition of my stand for this fellow Black Michael, but should they find that I had betrayed them there would be no mercy shown us, Alice.’
“我想我应该这样做，但是出于纯粹自私的动机，我几乎被要求‘保持沉默’。无论他们现在做什么，他们都会饶恕我们，因为他们承认我对这个黑人迈克尔的立场，但是他们应该这样做吗？”如果发现我背叛了他们，我们将不会有任何怜悯，爱丽丝。

‘You have but one duty, John, and that lies in the interest of vested authority. If you do not warn the captain you are as much a party to whatever follows as though you had helped to plot and carry it out with your own head and hands.’
“约翰，你只有一项职责，那就是维护既得权力的利益。如果你不警告船长，你就等于参与了接下来发生的一切，就好像你用自己的头脑和双手帮助策划并实施了它一样。

‘You do not understand, dear,’ replied Clayton. ‘It is of you I am thinking—there lies my first duty. The captain has brought this condition upon himself, so why then should I risk subjecting my wife to unthinkable horrors in a probably futile attempt to save him from his own brutal folly? You have no conception, dear, of what would follow were this pack of cutthroats to gain control of the Fuwalda.’
“你不明白，亲爱的，”克莱顿回答道。 “我想到的是你——这是我的首要职责。船长给自己带来了这种情况，那么我为什么要冒险让我的妻子遭受难以想象的恐怖，试图把他从自己残酷的愚蠢行为中拯救出来，这可能是徒劳的呢？亲爱的，你无法想象如果这群凶手控制了福瓦尔达号，接下来会发生什么。

‘Duty is duty, John, and no amount of sophistries may change it. I would be a poor wife for an English lord were I to be responsible for his shirking a plain duty. I realize the danger which must follow, but I can face it with you.’
“责任就是责任，约翰，再多的诡辩也改变不了它。如果我要为一位英国勋爵逃避一项简单的职责负责，我将成为一位可怜的妻子。我意识到随之而来的危险，但我可以和你一起面对它。

‘Have it as you will then, Alice,’ he answered, smiling. ‘Maybe we are borrowing trouble. While I do not like the looks of things on board this ship, they may not be so bad after all, for it is possible that the ‘Ancient Mariner’ was but voicing the desires of his wicked old heart rather than speaking of real facts.
“那就随你的便吧，爱丽丝，”他微笑着回答。 ‘也许我们是在借麻烦。虽然我不喜欢这艘船上的东西，但它们也许并没有那么糟糕，因为“古代水手”很可能只是在表达他邪恶的老心的欲望，而不是说出真实的事实。

‘Mutiny on the high sea may have been common a hundred years ago, but in this good year 1888 it is the least likely of happenings.
“一百年前，公海上的叛变可能很常见，但在 1888 年这个好年份，这种情况发生的可能性最小。

‘But there goes the captain to his cabin now. If I am going to warn him I might as well get the beastly job over for I have little stomach to talk with the brute at all.’
“但是现在船长已经回到他的小屋了。如果我要警告他，我还不如结束这残忍的工作，因为我根本没有胃口和这个畜生说话。

So saying he strolled carelessly in the direction of the companionway through which the captain had passed, and a moment later was knocking at his door.
说着，他漫不经心地朝船长走过的升降梯方向走去，不一会儿就敲响了他的门。

‘Come in,’ growled the deep tones of that surly officer.
“进来吧，”那位脾气暴躁的军官用低沉的声音咆哮道。

And when Clayton had entered, and closed the door behind him:
当克莱顿进来并关上身后的门时：

‘Well?’
'出色地？'

‘I have come to report the gist of a conversation I heard to-day, because I feel that, while there may be nothing to it, it is as well that you be forearmed. In short, the men contemplate mutiny and murder.’
‘我来报告今天听到的谈话要点，因为我觉得，虽然可能没什么，但你还是做好准备吧。简而言之，这些人正在考虑叛变和谋杀。

‘It’s a lie!’ roared the captain. ‘And if you have been interfering again with the discipline of this ship, or meddling in affairs that don’t concern you you can take the consequences, and be damned. I don’t care whether you are an English lord or not. I’m captain of this here ship, and from now on you keep your meddling nose out of my business.’
“这是谎言！”船长咆哮道。 ‘如果你再次干扰这艘船的纪律，或者干涉与你无关的事务，你可以承担后果，并受到诅咒。我不在乎你是不是英国勋爵。我是这艘船的船长，从现在开始，你别插手我的事了。”

The captain had worked himself up to such a frenzy of rage that he was fairly purple of face, and he shrieked the last words at the top of his voice, emphasizing his remarks by a loud thumping of the table with one huge fist, and shaking the other in Clayton’s face.
船长气得脸都紫了，他用最大的声音尖叫着最后一句话，用一只巨大的拳头重重地敲击桌子来强调他的话，浑身颤抖着。另一个在克莱顿的脸上。

Greystoke never turned a hair, but stood eying the excited man with level gaze.
格雷斯托克没有回头，只是站在那里用平视的目光看着这个激动的男人。

‘Captain Billings,’ he drawled finally, ‘if you will pardon my candor, I might remark that you are something of an ass.’
“比林斯船长，”他最后慢吞吞地说，“如果您能原谅我的坦白，我可能会说您是个混蛋。”

Whereupon he turned and left the captain with the same indifferent ease that was habitual with him, and which was more surely calculated to raise the ire of a man of Billings’ class than a torrent of invective.
于是他转身离开了船长，带着他一贯的冷漠从容，这肯定是为了激起比林斯级别的人的愤怒，而不是滔滔不绝的谩骂。

So, whereas the captain might easily have been brought to regret his hasty speech had Clayton attempted to conciliate him, his temper was now irrevocably set in the mold in which Clayton had left it, and the last chance of their working together for their common good was gone.
因此，虽然如果克莱顿试图安抚他，船长可能很容易对他的仓促言论感到后悔，但他的脾气现在已经不可挽回地陷入了克莱顿留下的模式中，这是他们为了共同利益而合作的最后机会失去了。

‘Well, Alice,’ said Clayton, as he rejoined his wife, ‘I might have saved my breath. The fellow proved most ungrateful. Fairly jumped at me like a mad dog.
“好吧，爱丽丝，”克莱顿回到妻子身边时说道，“我本来可以省一口气的。”事实证明，这个家伙是最忘恩负义的。像疯狗一样向我扑来。

‘He and his blasted old ship may hang, for aught I care; and until we are safely off the thing I shall spend my energies in looking after our own welfare. And I rather fancy the first step to that end should be to go to our cabin and look over my revolvers. I am sorry now that we packed the larger guns and the ammunition with the stuff below.’
“他和他该死的旧船可能会被绞死，我不在乎；在我们安全离开这件事之前，我将把精力花在照顾我们自己的福利上。我更喜欢实现这一目标的第一步应该是去我们的小屋检查我的左轮手枪。我很抱歉现在我们把更大的枪和弹药与下面的东西一起打包了。

They found their quarters in a bad state of disorder. Clothing from their open boxes and bags strewed the little apartment, and even their beds had been torn to pieces.
他们发现自己的住处非常混乱。他们打开的箱子和袋子里的衣服散落在小公寓里，甚至他们的床也被撕成了碎片。

‘Evidently someone was more anxious about our belongings than we,’ said Clayton. ‘Let’s have a look around, Alice, and see what’s missing.’
“显然有人比我们更担心我们的财物，”克莱顿说。 “爱丽丝，让我们环顾四周，看看缺少什么。”

A thorough search revealed the fact that nothing had been taken but Clayton’s two revolvers and the small supply of ammunition he had saved out for them.
彻底搜查后发现，除了克莱顿的两支左轮手枪和他为它们保存的少量弹药外，什么也没被拿走。

‘Those are the very things I most wish they had left us,’ said Clayton, ‘and the fact that they wished for them and them alone is most sinister.’
“这些正是我最希望他们离开我们的东西，”克莱顿说，“事实上，他们想要这些东西，而且只有它们是最险恶的。”

‘What are we to do, John?’ asked his wife. ‘Perhaps you were right in that our best chance lies in maintaining a neutral position.
“约翰，我们该怎么办？”他的妻子问。 “也许你是对的，我们最好的机会在于保持中立立场。

‘If the officers are able to prevent a mutiny, we have nothing to fear, while if the mutineers are victorious our one slim hope lies in not having attempted to thwart or antagonize them.’
“如果军官们能够阻止叛变，我们就没有什么好害怕的，而如果叛变者取得了胜利，我们唯一的希望就在于不要试图阻止或对抗他们。”

‘Right you are, Alice. We’ll keep in the middle of the road.’
“你说得对，爱丽丝。我们将保持在路中间。

As they started to straighten up their cabin, Clayton and his wife simultaneously noticed the corner of a piece of paper protruding from beneath the door of their quarters. As Clayton stooped to reach for it he was amazed to see it move further into the room, and then he realized that it was being pushed inward by someone from without.
当他们开始整理他们的小屋时，克莱顿和他的妻子同时注意到一张纸的一角从他们住处的门下伸出。当克莱顿弯腰去拿它时，他惊讶地发现它进一步移入房间，然后他意识到它被外面的人推了进去。

Quickly and silently he stepped toward the door, but, as he reached for the knob to throw it open, his wife’s hand fell upon his wrist.
他快速而安静地走向门，但是，当他伸手去拿门把手将门打开时，他妻子的手落在了他的手腕上。

‘No, John,’ she whispered. ‘They do not wish to be seen, and so we cannot afford to see them. Do not forget that we are keeping to the middle of the road.’
“不，约翰，”她低声说。 “他们不想被看到，所以我们不能看到他们。不要忘记我们要保持在路中间。”

Clayton smiled and dropped his hand to his side. Thus they stood watching the little bit of white paper until it finally remained at rest upon the floor just inside the door.
克莱顿微笑着把手放到了身侧。他们就这样站着看着那张小白纸，直到它最终静止在门内的地板上。

Then Clayton stooped and picked it up. It was a bit of grimy, white paper roughly folded into a ragged square. Opening it they found a crude message printed almost illegibly, and with many evidences of an unaccustomed task.
然后克莱顿弯下腰把它捡起来。这是一张肮脏的白纸，粗略地折叠成一个破烂的正方形。打开它，他们发现一条粗略的信息打印得几乎难以辨认，并且有许多证据表明这是一项不习惯的任务。

Translated, it was a warning to the Claytons to refrain from reporting the loss of the revolvers, or from repeating what the old sailor had told them—to refrain on pain of death.
翻译过来，这是对克莱顿一家的警告，不要报告左轮手枪丢失的情况，也不要重复老水手告诉他们的话——否则将处以死刑。

‘I rather imagine we’ll be good,’ said Clayton with a rueful smile. ‘About all we can do is to sit tight and wait for whatever may come.’
“我宁愿想象我们会很好，”克莱顿带着遗憾的微笑说道。 “我们所能做的就是静观其变，等待可能发生的一切。”

Chapter 2
第2章


The Savage Home
野蛮之家

Nor did they have long to wait, for the next morning as Clayton was emerging on deck for his accustomed walk before breakfast, a shot rang out, and then another, and another.
他们也没有等太久，因为第二天早上，当克莱顿出现在甲板上，按照惯例在早餐前散步时，一声枪响，然后是另一声，又是一声。

The sight which met his eyes confirmed his worst fears. Facing the little knot of officers was the entire motley crew of the Fuwalda, and at their head stood Black Michael.
他眼前的景象证实了他最担心的事情。面对这一小群军官的是福瓦尔达号的所有杂七杂八的船员，黑迈克尔站在他们的最前面。

At the first volley from the officers the men ran for shelter, and from points of vantage behind masts, wheel-house and cabin they returned the fire of the five men who represented the hated authority of the ship.
当军官们第一次齐射时，这些人就跑去躲避，从桅杆、驾驶室和船舱后面的有利位置，他们还击了代表这艘船令人憎恶的权威的五名男子。

Two of their number had gone down before the captain’s revolver. They lay where they had fallen between the combatants. But then the first mate lunged forward upon his face, and at a cry of command from Black Michael the mutineers charged the remaining four. The crew had been able to muster but six firearms, so most of them were armed with boat hooks, axes, hatchets and crowbars.
他们中的两个人倒在了队长的左轮手枪前。他们躺在战斗人员之间倒下的地方。但随后大副扑向他的脸，随着黑迈克尔的一声命令，叛变者向其余四人发起攻击。船员们只能调集六把枪，所以大多数人都配备了船钩、斧头、斧头和撬棍。

The captain had emptied his revolver and was reloading as the charge was made. The second mate’s gun had jammed, and so there were but two weapons opposed to the mutineers as they bore down upon the officers, who now started to give back before the infuriated rush of their men.
冲锋时，上尉已经打空了左轮手枪，正在重新装弹。二副的枪卡壳了，所以当叛变者向军官们猛冲过来时，只有两把武器可以对抗，军官们现在开始在手下愤怒的冲锋前还击。

Both sides were cursing and swearing in a frightful manner, which, together with the reports of the firearms and the screams and groans of the wounded, turned the deck of the Fuwalda to the likeness of a madhouse.
双方都以可怕的方式咒骂和咒骂，再加上枪械的报告和伤员的尖叫和呻吟，把福瓦尔达号的甲板变成了疯人院。

Before the officers had taken a dozen backward steps the men were upon them. An ax in the hands of a burly Negro cleft the captain from forehead to chin, and an instant later the others were down: dead or wounded from dozens of blows and bullet wounds.
军官们还没有向后退十几步，那些人就已经追上了他们。一个魁梧的黑人手里拿着一把斧头，将队长从额头劈到了下巴，转眼间，其他人都倒地了：要么死了，要么因数十次打击和枪伤而受伤。

Short and grisly had been the work of the mutineers of the Fuwalda, and through it all John Clayton had stood leaning carelessly beside the companionway puffing meditatively upon his pipe as though he had been but watching an indifferent cricket match.
福瓦尔达叛变者的所作所为短暂而可怕，在整个过程中，约翰·克莱顿一直漫不经心地靠在升降梯旁边，沉思地吸着烟斗，仿佛他只是在观看一场漠不关心的板球比赛。

As the last officer went down he thought it was time that he returned to his wife lest some members of the crew find her alone below.
当最后一名军官下楼时，他认为是时候回到妻子身边了，以免一些船员发现她独自一人在下面。

Though outwardly calm and indifferent, Clayton was inwardly apprehensive and wrought up, for he feared for his wife’s safety at the hands of these ignorant, half-brutes into whose hands fate had so remorselessly thrown them.
虽然克莱顿表面上平静而冷漠，但他内心却忧心忡忡，焦躁不安，因为他担心妻子的安全会落入这些无知的、半畜生的手中，而命运却无情地将他们扔到了这些人的手中。

As he turned to descend the ladder he was surprised to see his wife standing on the steps almost at his side.
当他转身走下梯子时，他惊讶地发现妻子几乎站在他身边的台阶上。

‘How long have you been here, Alice?’
“你来这里多久了，爱丽丝？”

‘Since the beginning,’ she replied. ‘How awful, John. Oh, how awful! What can we hope for at the hands of such as those?’
“从一开始，”她回答道。 “太糟糕了，约翰。哦，多糟糕啊！我们能在这些人的手中指望什么呢？

‘Breakfast, I hope,’ he answered, smiling bravely in an attempt to allay her fears.
“我希望吃早餐，”他回答道，勇敢地微笑着，试图减轻她的恐惧。

‘At least,’ he added, ‘I’m going to ask them. Come with me, Alice. We must not let them think we expect any but courteous treatment.’
“至少，”他补充道，“我会问他们。”跟我来吧，爱丽丝。我们不能让他们认为我们只期待有礼貌的待遇。

The men had by this time surrounded the dead and wounded officers, and without either partiality or compassion proceeded to throw both living and dead over the sides of the vessel. With equal heartlessness they disposed of their own dead and dying.
此时，这些人已经包围了死去和受伤的军官，并没有偏袒或同情地把活人和死人扔到船舷上。他们同样无情地对待自己的死者和垂死者。

Presently one of the crew spied the approaching Claytons, and with a cry of: ‘Here’s two more for the fishes,’ rushed toward them with uplifted ax.
不久，一名船员发现克莱顿一家正在逼近，并喊道：“这里还有两条鱼，”举起斧头冲向他们。

But Black Michael was even quicker, so that the fellow went down with a bullet in his back before he had taken a half dozen steps.
但黑迈克尔的速度更快，所以这家伙还没走出六步就中弹倒地了。

With a loud roar, Black Michael attracted the attention of the others, and, pointing to Lord and Lady Greystoke, cried:
黑迈克尔一声大吼，吸引了其他人的注意，他指着格雷斯托克勋爵和夫人喊道：

‘These here are my friends, and they are to be left alone. D’ye understand?
“这些是我的朋友，不要打扰他们。你明白吗？

‘I’m captain of this ship now, an’ what I says goes,’ he added, turning to Clayton. ‘Just keep to yourselves, and nobody’ll harm ye,’ and he looked threateningly on his fellows.
“我现在是这艘船的船长，我说什么就是什么，”他转向克莱顿补充道。 “你们自己待着吧，没人会伤害你们。”他威胁地看着他的同伴。

The Claytons heeded Black Michael’s instructions so well that they saw but little of the crew and knew nothing of the plans the men were making.
克莱顿夫妇非常听从布莱克·迈克尔的指示，以至于他们只看到了船员们的一小部分，而且对他们正在制定的计划一无所知。

Occasionally they heard faint echoes of brawls and quarreling among the mutineers, and on two occasions the vicious bark of firearms rang out on the still air. But Black Michael was a fit leader for this band of cutthroats, and, withal held them in fair subjection to his rule.
偶尔他们会听到叛变者之间微弱的打斗和争吵的回声，有两次，安静的空气中响起枪声。但布莱克·迈克尔是这群杀手的合适领导者，并且让他们完全服从他的统治。

On the fifth day following the murder of the ship’s officers, land was sighted by the lookout. Whether island or mainland, Black Michael did not know, but he announced to Clayton that if investigation showed that the place was habitable he and Lady Greystoke were to be put ashore with their belongings.
船上军官被谋杀后的第五天，瞭望员发现了陆地。黑迈克尔不知道是岛屿还是大陆，但他向克莱顿宣布，如果调查表明该地方适合居住，他和格雷斯托克夫人将带着他们的物品被送上岸。

‘You’ll be all right there for a few months,’ he explained, ‘and by that time we’ll have been able to make an inhabited coast somewhere and scatter a bit. Then I’ll see that yer gover’ment’s notified where you be an’ they’ll soon send a mano’war to fetch ye off.
“你会在那里待上几个月，”他解释道，“到那时我们就能够在某个地方建立一个有人居住的海岸，并分散一些。”然后我会看到你的政府通知你在哪里，他们很快就会派出一场战争来接你。

‘It would be a hard matter to land you in civilization without a lot o’ questions being asked, an’ none o’ us here has any very convincin’ answers up our sleeves.’
“如果不问很多问题，让你进入文明社会将是一件困难的事情，我们这里没有人能提供任何非常令人信服的答案。”

Clayton remonstrated against the inhumanity of landing them upon an unknown shore to be left to the mercies of savage beasts, and, possibly, still more savage men.
克莱顿抗议将他们降落在未知的海岸上，任由野蛮野兽，甚至可能是更多野蛮人的摆布，这是不人道的行为。

But his words were of no avail, and only tended to anger Black Michael, so he was forced to desist and make the best he could of a bad situation.
但他的话并没有什么作用，反而激怒了黑迈克尔，他只得收手，苦苦挣扎。

About three o’clock in the afternoon they came about off a beautiful wooded shore opposite the mouth of what appeared to be a land-locked harbor.
下午三点左右，他们从一片美丽的树木繁茂的海岸出发，对面似乎是一个内陆港口的入口。

Black Michael sent a small boat filled with men to sound the entrance in an effort to determine if the Fuwalda could be safely worked through the entrance.
布莱克·迈克尔派了一艘载满人员的小船对入口进行探测，以确定福瓦尔达号是否可以安全地通过入口。

In about an hour they returned and reported deep water through the passage as well as far into the little basin.
大约一个小时后，他们返回并报告说水很深，穿过通道并深入到小盆地。

Before dark the barkentine lay peacefully at anchor upon the bosom of the still, mirror-like surface of the harbor.
天黑之前，巴肯丁号平静地停泊在平静如镜的港口的怀抱上。

The surrounding shores were beautiful with semitropical verdure, while in the distance the country rose from the ocean in hill and tableland, almost uniformly clothed by primeval forest.
周围的海岸美丽，亚热带翠绿，远处的国家从海洋中升起，山丘和高原几乎均匀地覆盖着原始森林。

No signs of habitation were visible, but that the land might easily support human life was evidenced by the abundant bird and animal life of which the watchers on the Fuwalda’s deck caught occasional glimpses, as well as by the shimmer of a little river which emptied into the harbor, insuring fresh water in plenitude.
没有可见的居住迹象，但是富瓦尔达号甲板上的观察者偶尔会瞥见丰富的鸟类和动物，以及流入河流的一条小河的微光，证明这片土地可能很容易维持人类的生活。港口，确保淡水充足。

As darkness settled upon the earth, Clayton and Lady Alice still stood by the ship’s rail in silent contemplation of their future abode. From the dark shadows of the mighty forest came the wild calls of savage beasts—the deep roar of the lion, and, occasionally, the shrill scream of a panther.
当夜幕降临大地时，克莱顿和爱丽丝女士仍然站在船栏旁，默默地思考着他们未来的住所。茂密森林的黑暗阴影中，传来野兽的狂野叫声——狮子低沉的吼叫，偶尔还有豹子的尖锐尖叫。

The woman shrank closer to the man in terror-stricken anticipation of the horrors lying in wait for them in the awful blackness of the nights to come, when they should be alone upon that wild and lonely shore.
女人畏缩地靠近男人，恐惧地期待着在即将到来的可怕的黑暗中等待着他们的恐怖，而他们本应该独自一人在那片荒凉而孤独的海岸上。

Later in the evening Black Michael joined them long enough to instruct them to make their preparations for landing on the morrow. They tried to persuade him to take them to some more hospitable coast near enough to civilization so that they might hope to fall into friendly hands. But no pleas, or threats, or promises of reward could move him.
晚上晚些时候，布莱克·迈克尔加入了他们，并指导他们为明天的登陆做好准备。他们试图说服他带他们去一些距离文明更近、更热情好客的海岸，这样他们就有希望落入友好的手中。但任何恳求、威胁或奖励承诺都无法打动他。

‘I am the only man aboard who would not rather see ye both safely dead, and, while I know that’s the sensible way to make sure of our own necks, yet Black Michael’s not the man to forget a favor. Ye saved my life once, and in return I’m goin’ to spare yours, but that’s all I can do.
“我是船上唯一一个不愿意看到你们俩安全死去的人，虽然我知道这是确保我们自己安全的明智方法，但黑迈克尔不是那个忘记帮忙的人。你曾经救过我的命，作为回报，我会饶你一命，但这就是我所能做的。

‘The men won’t stand for any more, and if we don’t get ye landed pretty quick they may even change their minds about giving ye that much show. I’ll put all yer stuff ashore with ye as well as cookin’ utensils an’ some old sails for tents, an’ enough grub to last ye until ye can find fruit and game.
“这些人不会再忍受了，如果我们不能很快让你们着陆，他们甚至可能会改变主意，不再给你们那么多表演。”我会把你们所有的东西和你们一起放到岸上，还有烹饪用具和一些帐篷用的旧帆，还有足够你们吃的食物，直到你们找到水果和野味。

‘With yer guns for protection, ye ought to be able to live here easy enough until help comes. When I get safely hid away I’ll see to it that the British gover’ment learns about where ye be; for the life of me I couldn’t tell ‘em exactly where, for I don’t know myself. But they’ll find ye all right.’
“有了枪的保护，你们应该能够在这里轻松地生活，直到救援到来。”当我安全地躲起来时，我会确保英国政府了解你们在哪里；我一生都无法告诉他们确切的位置，因为我不认识自己。但他们会发现你们一切都好。

After he had left them they went silently below, each wrapped in gloomy forebodings.
他离开后，他们默默地走下楼去，每个人都笼罩着不祥的预感。

Clayton did not believe that Black Michael had the slightest intention of notifying the British government of their whereabouts, nor was he any too sure but that some treachery was contemplated for the following day when they should be on shore with the sailors who would have to accompany them with their belongings.
克莱顿不相信黑迈克尔有丝毫打算将他们的行踪通知英国政府，他也不太确定，但他认为第二天他们应该和必须随行的水手一起上岸时，就会考虑采取一些背叛行动。他们和他们的财物。

Once out of Black Michael’s sight any of the men might strike them down, and still leave Black Michael’s conscience clear.
一旦离开黑迈克尔的视线，任何人都可能会击倒他们，但仍能让黑迈克尔问心无愧。

And even should they escape that fate was it not but to be faced with far graver dangers? Alone, he might hope to survive for years; for he was a strong, athletic man.
即使他们逃脱了这种命运，难道不是要面临更加严重的危险吗？独自一人，他或许还有希望活上好几年；因为他是一个强壮、运动健壮的人。

But what of Alice, and that other little life so soon to be launched amidst the hardships and grave dangers of a primeval world?
但是爱丽丝和另一个即将在原始世界的艰辛和严重危险中诞生的小生命呢？

The man shuddered as he meditated upon the awful gravity, the fearful helplessness, of their situation. But it was a merciful Providence which prevented him from foreseeing the hideous reality which awaited them in the grim depths of that gloomy wood.
当他想到他们处境的可怕的严重性和可怕的无助时，这个男人不寒而栗。但仁慈的天意使他无法预见在那片阴森的树林深处等待着他们的可怕的现实。

Early next morning their numerous chests and boxes were hoisted on deck and lowered to waiting small boats for transportation to shore.
第二天一早，他们的大量箱子和箱子被吊到甲板上，然后降落到等待的小船上，以便运输到岸上。

There was a great quantity and variety of stuff, as the Claytons had expected a possible five to eight years’ residence in their new home. Thus, in addition to the many necessities they had brought, there were also many luxuries.
东西的数量和种类都非常多，因为克莱顿夫妇预计他们的新家可能会住五到八年。所以，他们带来的除了许多生活必需品之外，还有许多奢侈品。

Black Michael was determined that nothing belonging to the Claytons should be left on board. Whether out of compassion for them, or in furtherance of his own self-interests, it would be difficult to say.
布莱克·迈克尔决心不让属于克莱顿一家的任何东西留在船上。究竟是出于对他们的同情，还是为了自己的私利，很难说。

There was no question but that the presence of property of a missing British official upon a suspicious vessel would have been a difficult thing to explain in any civilized port in the world.
毫无疑问，失踪的英国官员的财产出现在一艘可疑的船上，这在世界上任何一个文明港口都是一件很难解释的事情。

So zealous was he in his efforts to carry out his intentions that he insisted upon the return of Clayton’s revolvers to him by the sailors in whose possession they were.
他如此热心地努力实现自己的意图，以至于他坚持要求拥有克莱顿左轮手枪的水手将其归还给他。

Into the small boats were also loaded salt meats and biscuit, with a small supply of potatoes and beans, matches, and cooking vessels, a chest of tools, and the old sails which Black Michael had promised them.
小船里还装着咸肉和饼干，还有少量的土豆和豆子、火柴、炊具、一箱工具，还有黑迈克尔答应给他们的旧帆。

As though himself fearing the very thing which Clayton had suspected, Black Michael accompanied them to shore, and was the last to leave them when the small boats, having filled the ship’s casks with fresh water, were pushed out toward the waiting Fuwalda.
布莱克·迈克尔仿佛担心克莱顿所怀疑的事情一样，陪着他们上了岸，当小船在船上的木桶里装满了淡水，被推向等待的福瓦尔达时，他是最后一个离开他们的。

As the boats moved slowly over the smooth waters of the bay, Clayton and his wife stood silently watching their departure—in the breasts of both a feeling of impending disaster and utter hopelessness.
当船只在海湾平静的水面上缓慢行驶时，克莱顿和他的妻子静静地站着，看着他们离开——心中充满了即将到来的灾难和彻底的绝望。

And behind them, over the edge of a low ridge, other eyes watched—close set, wicked eyes, gleaming beneath shaggy brows.
在他们身后，越过一座低矮的山脊边缘，其他眼睛也在注视着他们——距离很近、邪恶的眼睛，在蓬乱的眉毛下闪闪发光。

As the Fuwalda passed through the narrow entrance to the harbor and out of sight behind a projecting point, Lady Alice threw her arms about Clayton’s neck and burst into uncontrolled sobs.
当福瓦尔达号驶过港口狭窄的入口，在一个突出点后面消失在视线之外时，爱丽丝女士用双臂搂住克莱顿的脖子，失控地抽泣起来。

Bravely had she faced the dangers of the mutiny; with heroic fortitude she had looked into the terrible future; but now that the horror of absolute solitude was upon them, her overwrought nerves gave way, and the reaction came.
她勇敢地面对了叛变的危险；她以英勇的毅力展望了可怕的未来。但现在，绝对孤独的恐惧降临在他们身上，她过度紧张的神经放松了，反应出现了。

He did not attempt to check her tears. It were better that nature have her way in relieving these long-pent emotions, and it was many minutes before the girl—little more than a child she was—could again gain mastery of herself.
他没有试图阻止她的眼泪。最好是大自然有办法缓解这些长期压抑的情绪，过了好几分钟，这个女孩——她还只是个孩子——才能再次掌控自己。

‘Oh, John,’ she cried at last, ‘the horror of it. What are we to do? What are we to do?’
“哦，约翰，”她最后喊道，“太可怕了。”我们接下来干吗？我们接下来干吗？'

‘There is but one thing to do, Alice,’ and he spoke as quietly as though they were sitting in their snug living room at home, ‘and that is work. Work must be our salvation. We must not give ourselves time to think, for in that direction lies madness.
“只有一件事要做，爱丽丝，”他轻声说道，就像他们坐在家里舒适的客厅里一样，“那就是工作。”工作必须是我们的救赎。我们决不能给自己时间去思考，因为那个方向就是疯狂。

‘We must work and wait. I am sure that relief will come, and come quickly, when once it is apparent that the Fuwalda has been lost, even though Black Michael does not keep his word to us.’
‘我们必须工作并等待。我相信，一旦福瓦尔达号明显失踪，尽管黑迈克尔没有信守对我们的诺言，救济将会到来，而且很快就会到来。

‘But John, if it were only you and I,’ she sobbed, ‘we could endure it I know; but—‘
“但是约翰，如果只有你和我，”她抽泣着，“我知道我们可以忍受；但我们可以忍受。”但-'

‘Yes, dear,’ he answered, gently, ‘I have been thinking of that, also; but we must face it, as we must face whatever comes, bravely and with the utmost confidence in our ability to cope with circumstances whatever they may be.
“是的，亲爱的，”他温柔地回答，“我也一直在考虑这个问题；但我们必须面对它，就像我们必须勇敢面对任何情况一样，并对我们应对任何情况的能力充满信心。

‘Hundreds of thousands of years ago our ancestors of the dim and distant past faced the same problems which we must face, possibly in these same primeval forests. That we are here today evidences their victory.
“数十万年前，我们的祖先在昏暗而遥远的过去面临着我们必须面对的同样问题，可能就在这些同样的原始森林中。我们今天在这里证明了他们的胜利。

‘What they did may we not do? And even better, for are we not armed with ages of superior knowledge, and have we not the means of protection, defense, and sustenance which science has given us, but of which they were totally ignorant? What they accomplished, Alice, with instruments and weapons of stone and bone, surely that may we accomplish also.’
‘他们所做的我们不能做吗？更好的是，因为我们不是拥有先进知识的武装，我们没有科学赋予我们但他们完全无知的保护、防御和维持手段吗？爱丽丝，他们用石头和骨头制成的仪器和武器所取得的成就，我们当然也能做到。

‘Ah, John, I wish that I might be a man with a man’s philosophy, but I am but a woman, seeing with my heart rather than my head, and all that I can see is too horrible, too unthinkable to put into words.
“啊，约翰，我希望我能成为一个有男人哲学的男人，但我只是一个女人，用我的心而不是用我的头脑来看待，我所看到的一切都太可怕了，太不可思议了，无法用语言来表达。

‘I only hope you are right, John. I will do my best to be a brave primeval woman, a fit mate for the primeval man.’
“我只希望你是对的，约翰。我会尽力成为一个勇敢的原始女人，一个适合原始男人的伴侣。

Clayton’s first thought was to arrange a sleeping shelter for the night; something which might serve to protect them from prowling beasts of prey.
克莱顿的第一个想法是安排一个过夜的庇护所。可能有助于保护他们免受潜行猛兽侵害的东西。

He opened the box containing his rifles and ammunition, that they might both be armed against possible attack while at work, and then together they sought a location for their first night’s sleeping place.
他打开了装有步枪和弹药的盒子，以便他们在工作时都可以携带武器以应对可能的袭击，然后他们一起寻找第一晚睡觉的地方。

A hundred yards from the beach was a little level spot, fairly free of trees; here they decided eventually to build a permanent house, but for the time being they both thought it best to construct a little platform in the trees out of reach of the larger of the savage beasts in whose realm they were.
距海滩一百码处有一个平坦的小地方，几乎没有树木。他们最终决定在这里建造一座永久性的房子，但目前他们都认为最好在树林里建造一个小平台，远离他们所在领域的更大的野蛮野兽。

To this end Clayton selected four trees which formed a rectangle about eight feet square, and cutting long branches from other trees he constructed a framework around them, about ten feet from the ground, fastening the ends of the branches securely to the trees by means of rope, a quantity of which Black Michael had furnished him from the hold of the Fuwalda.
为此，克莱顿选择了四棵树，形成一个约八英尺见方的矩形，并从其他树上砍下长树枝，他在它们周围建造了一个框架，距离地面约十英尺，通过以下方式将树枝的末端牢固地固定在树木上：绳子，数量是布莱克·迈克尔从福瓦尔达号的货舱里给他提供的。

Across this framework Clayton placed other smaller branches quite close together. This platform he paved with the huge fronds of elephant’s ear which grew in profusion about them, and over the fronds he laid a great sail folded into several thicknesses.
在这个框架中，克莱顿将其他较小的分支紧密地放置在一起。这个平台是他用巨大的象耳叶铺成的，象耳的叶在周围生长得很茂盛，他在叶上铺了一张折叠成几层厚度的大帆。

Seven feet higher he constructed a similar, though lighter platform to serve as roof, and from the sides of this he suspended the balance of his sailcloth for walls.
他在七英尺高的地方建造了一个类似但较轻的平台作为屋顶，并从平台的两侧悬挂了帆布的平衡物作为墙壁。

When completed he had a rather snug little nest, to which he carried their blankets and some of the lighter luggage.
完工后，他有了一个相当舒适的小巢，他把他们的毯子和一些较轻的行李搬到那里。

It was now late in the afternoon, and the balance of the daylight hours were devoted to the building of a rude ladder by means of which Lady Alice could mount to her new home.
现在已经是下午晚些时候了，白天的时间都用来搭建一个简陋的梯子，爱丽丝女士可以通过它登上她的新家。

All during the day the forest about them had been filled with excited birds of brilliant plumage, and dancing, chattering monkeys, who watched these new arrivals and their wonderful nest building operations with every mark of keenest interest and fascination.
一整天，他们周围的森林里都充满了兴奋的、羽毛绚丽的鸟儿，还有跳舞、叽叽喳喳的猴子，它们怀着极大的兴趣和着迷地看着这些新来的鸟和它们精彩的筑巢活动。

Notwithstanding that both Clayton and his wife kept a sharp lookout they saw nothing of larger animals, though on two occasions they had seen their little simian neighbors come screaming and chattering from the near-by ridge, casting frightened glances back over their little shoulders, and evincing as plainly as though by speech that they were fleeing some terrible thing which lay concealed there.
尽管克莱顿和他的妻子都保持着敏锐的警惕，但他们没有看到更大的动物，尽管有两次他们看到他们的小猿猴邻居从附近的山脊尖叫着，叽叽喳喳地过来，从他们的小肩膀上向后投去惊恐的目光，就像通过言语一样清楚地表明，他们正在逃离隐藏在那里的某种可怕的东西。

Just before dusk Clayton finished his ladder, and, filling a great basin with water from the near-by stream, the two mounted to the comparative safety of their aerial chamber.
就在黄昏之前，克莱顿完成了他的梯子，并从附近的溪流中装满了一个大盆，两人登上了相对安全的空中舱。

As it was quite warm, Clayton had left the side curtains thrown back over the roof, and as they sat, like Turks, upon their blankets, Lady Alice, straining her eyes into the darkening shadows of the wood, suddenly reached out and grasped Clayton’s arms.
由于天气很暖和，克莱顿把侧帘拉到了屋顶上，当他们像土耳其人一样坐在毯子上时，爱丽丝女士将眼睛凝视着树林里逐渐变暗的阴影，突然伸出手抓住了克莱顿的眼睛。武器。

‘John,’ she whispered, ‘look! What is it, a man?’
“约翰，”她低声说，“看！它是什么，一个男人？

As Clayton turned his eyes in the direction she indicated, he saw silhouetted dimly against the shadows beyond, a great figure standing upright upon the ridge.
当克莱顿将目光转向她指示的方向时，他看到远处阴影中隐约可见一个巨大的身影直立在山脊上。

For a moment it stood as though listening and then turned slowly, and melted into the shadows of the jungle.
它站了一会儿，仿佛在倾听，然后慢慢转过身，消失在丛林的阴影中。

‘What is it, John?’
“什么事，约翰？”

‘I do not know, Alice,’ he answered gravely, ‘it is too dark to see so far, and it may have been but a shadow cast by the rising moon.’
“我不知道，爱丽丝，”他严肃地回答，“天太黑了，看不清楚，可能只是升起的月亮投下的阴影。”

‘No, John, if it was not a man it was some huge and grotesque mockery of man. Oh, I am afraid.’
“不，约翰，如果这不是一个人，那也是对人类的某种巨大而怪诞的嘲弄。哦，我害怕。

He gathered her in his arms, whispering words of courage and love into her ears.
他把她搂在怀里，在她耳边低语着勇气和爱的话语。

Soon after, he lowered the curtain walls, tying them securely to the trees so that, except for a little opening toward the beach, they were entirely enclosed.
不久之后，他降下幕墙，将它们牢牢地绑在树上，这样，除了朝向海滩的一个小开口外，它们就完全封闭了。

As it was now pitch dark within their tiny aerie they lay down upon their blankets to try to gain, through sleep, a brief respite of forgetfulness.
由于他们的小巢穴里现在一片漆黑，他们躺在毯子上，试图通过睡眠获得短暂的健忘休息。

Clayton lay facing the opening at the front, a rifle and a brace of revolvers at his hand.
克莱顿面向前面的开口躺着，手里拿着一支步枪和一把左轮手枪。

Scarcely had they closed their eyes than the terrifying cry of a panther rang out from the jungle behind them. Closer and closer it came until they could hear the great beast directly beneath them. For an hour or more they heard it sniffing and clawing at the trees which supported their platform, but at last it roamed away across the beach, where Clayton could see it clearly in the brilliant moonlight—a great, handsome beast, the largest he had ever seen.
他们刚闭上眼睛，身后的丛林里就响起了豹子的恐怖叫声。声音越来越近，直到他们能听到正下方那头巨兽的声音。在一个多小时的时间里，他们听到它在支撑平台的树木上嗅、抓，但最后它漫步穿过海滩，克莱顿在明亮的月光下可以清楚地看到它——一头巨大、英俊的野兽，是他所见过的最大的野兽。曾经见过。

During the long hours of darkness they caught but fitful snatches of sleep, for the night noises of a great jungle teeming with myriad animal life kept their overwrought nerves on edge, so that a hundred times they were startled to wakefulness by piercing screams, or the stealthy moving of great bodies beneath them.
在漫长的黑暗中，他们只能断断续续地睡上一觉，因为充满了无数动物生命的大丛林的夜间噪音使他们过度紧张的神经紧张，因此他们有一百次被刺耳的尖叫声惊醒，或者被刺耳的尖叫声惊醒。他们身下巨大的身体在悄悄移动。

Chapter 3
第3章


Life and Death
生与死

Morning found them but little, if at all refreshed, though it was with a feeling of intense relief that they saw the day dawn.
早晨，他们几乎没有感到精神焕发，甚至没有任何精神振奋，尽管他们在看到黎明时感到强烈的解脱。

As soon as they had made their meager breakfast of salt pork, coffee and biscuit, Clayton commenced work upon their house, for he realized that they could hope for no safety and no peace of mind at night until four strong walls effectually barred the jungle life from them.
他们一吃完咸猪肉、咖啡和饼干的微薄早餐，克莱顿就开始了他们的房子的工作，因为他意识到，除非四堵坚固的墙壁有效地阻止了丛林生活，否则他们在晚上就不能指望安全和内心的平静。从他们。

The task was an arduous one and required the better part of a month, though he built but one small room. He constructed his cabin of small logs about six inches in diameter, stopping the chinks with clay which he found at the depth of a few feet beneath the surface soil.
尽管他只建造了一间小房间，但这项任务是一项艰巨的任务，需要大半个月的时间。他用直径约六英寸的小圆木建造了自己的小屋，并用他在地表土壤下几英尺深处发现的粘土堵住了缝隙。

At one end he built a fireplace of small stones from the beach. These also he set in clay and when the house had been entirely completed he applied a coating of the clay to the entire outside surface to the thickness of four inches.
在一端，他用海滩上的小石头建造了一个壁炉。他还将这些材料放入粘土中，当房子完全完工后，他在整个外表面涂上了四英寸厚的粘土涂层。

In the window opening he set small branches about an inch in diameter both vertically and horizontally, and so woven that they formed a substantial grating that could withstand the strength of a powerful animal. Thus they obtained air and proper ventilation without fear of lessening the safety of their cabin.
他在窗户开口处垂直和水平放置了直径约一英寸的小树枝，并将它们编织成坚固的格栅，可以承受强大动物的力量。因此，他们获得了空气和适当的通风，而不必担心降低舱内的安全性。

The A-shaped roof was thatched with small branches laid close together and over these long jungle grass and palm fronds, with a final coating of clay.
A 形的屋顶是用茅草覆盖的，小树枝紧密地放在这些长长的丛林草和棕榈叶上，最后覆盖了一层粘土。

The door he built of pieces of the packing-boxes which had held their belongings, nailing one piece upon another, the grain of contiguous layers running transversely, until he had a solid body some three inches thick and of such great strength that they were both moved to laughter as they gazed upon it.
他用装有他们的物品的包装箱的碎片建造了门，将一块钉在另一块上，连续层的纹理横向延伸，直到他有了一个大约三英寸厚的坚固身体，并且具有如此强大的力量，以至于他们都被钉住了。当他们注视着它时，忍不住笑了起来。

Here the greatest difficulty confronted Clayton, for he had no means whereby to hang his massive door now that he had built it. After two days’ work, however, he succeeded in fashioning two massive hardwood hinges, and with these he hung the door so that it opened and closed easily.
克莱顿面临着最大的困难，因为他已经建造了大门，却没有办法悬挂它。然而，经过两天的工作，他成功地制作了两个巨大的硬木铰链，并用这些铰链将门挂起来，以便轻松打开和关闭。

The stuccoing and other final touches were added after they moved into the house, which they had done as soon as the roof was on, piling their boxes before the door at night and thus having a comparatively safe and comfortable habitation.
粉刷和其他最后的修饰是在他们搬进房子后进行的，屋顶盖好后，他们就完成了这些工作，晚上把箱子堆在门前，这样就有了一个相对安全和舒适的居住环境。

The building of a bed, chairs, table, and shelves was a relatively easy matter, so that by the end of the second month they were well settled, and, but for the constant dread of attack by wild beasts and the ever growing loneliness, they were not uncomfortable or unhappy.
搭建床、椅子、桌子和架子是一件相对容易的事情，所以到了第二个月底的时候，他们就安顿好了，而且，除了不断害怕野兽的袭击和日益增长的孤独之外，他们并没有感到不舒服或不高兴。

At night great beasts snarled and roared about their tiny cabin, but, so accustomed may one become to oft repeated noises, that soon they paid little attention to them, sleeping soundly the whole night through.
晚上，巨大的野兽在他们的小小屋里咆哮，但是，人们已经习惯了经常重复的噪音，很快他们就不再理会这些声音，整晚都睡得很香。

Thrice had they caught fleeting glimpses of great man-like figures like that of the first night, but never at sufficiently close range to know positively whether the half-seen forms were those of man or brute.
他们曾三次瞥见伟大的人形人物，就像第一晚那样，但距离不够近，无法确定那些隐约可见的人形是人类还是野兽。

The brilliant birds and the little monkeys had become accustomed to their new acquaintances, and as they had evidently never seen human beings before they presently, after their first fright had worn off, approached closer and closer, impelled by that strange curiosity which dominates the wild creatures of the forest and the jungle and the plain, so that within the first month several of the birds had gone so far as even to accept morsels of food from the friendly hands of the Claytons.
聪明的鸟儿和小猴子已经习惯了新朋友，而且显然以前从未见过人类，在最初的恐惧消退后，在野外那种奇怪的好奇心的驱使下，它们离得越来越近。森林、丛林和平原的生物，因此在第一个月内，有几只鸟甚至从克莱顿夫妇的友好手中接受了少量食物。

One afternoon, while Clayton was working upon an addition to their cabin, for he contemplated building several more rooms, a number of their grotesque little friends came shrieking and scolding through the trees from the direction of the ridge. Ever as they fled they cast fearful glances back of them, and finally they stopped near Clayton jabbering excitedly to him as though to warn him of approaching danger.
一天下午，当克莱顿正在为他们的小屋加建时，因为他考虑再建几个房间，他们的一些怪诞的小朋友从山脊方向穿过树林尖叫着、责骂着。每当他们逃跑时，他们都会向他们投去恐惧的目光，最后他们停在克莱顿附近，兴奋地对他喋喋不休，好像在警告他危险正在逼近。

At last he saw it, the thing the little monkeys so feared— the man-brute of which the Claytons had caught occasional fleeting glimpses.
他终于看到了，小猴子们如此害怕的东西——克莱顿一家偶尔瞥见的人畜。

It was approaching through the jungle in a semi-erect position, now and then placing the backs of its closed fists upon the ground—a great anthropoid ape, and, as it advanced, it emitted deep guttural growls and an occasional low barking sound.
它以半直立的姿势穿过丛林，时不时地将紧握的拳头放在地上——一只巨大的类人猿，当它前进时，它会发出深沉的喉咙咆哮，偶尔还会发出低沉的吠叫声。

Clayton was at some distance from the cabin, having come to fell a particularly perfect tree for his building operations. Grown careless from months of continued safety, during which time he had seen no dangerous animals during the daylight hours, he had left his rifles and revolvers all within the little cabin, and now that he saw the great ape crashing through the underbrush directly toward him, and from a direction which practically cut him off from escape, he felt a vague little shiver play up and down his spine.
克莱顿距离小屋有一段距离，他正在为他的建筑作业砍倒一棵特别完美的树。由于几个月的持续安全，他在白天没有看到任何危险的动物，因此变得粗心大意，他把步枪和左轮手枪都留在了小木屋里，现在他看到巨猿直接从灌木丛中冲向他，从一个几乎阻止他逃脱的方向，他感到脊背上一阵隐隐约约的颤抖。

He knew that, armed only with an ax, his chances with this ferocious monster were small indeed—and Alice; O God, he thought, what will become of Alice?
他知道，凭借一把斧头，他对付这个凶猛怪物的机会确实很小——还有爱丽丝；天啊，他想，爱丽丝会变成什么样子呢？

There was yet a slight chance of reaching the cabin. He turned and ran toward it, shouting an alarm to his wife to run in and close the great door in case the ape cut off his retreat.
到达小屋的机会还很小。他转身跑向它，大声警告他的妻子跑进去关上大门，以防猩猩切断他的退路。

Lady Greystoke had been sitting a little way from the cabin, and when she heard his cry she looked up to see the ape springing with almost incredible swiftness, for so large and awkward an animal, in an effort to head off Clayton.
格雷斯托克夫人坐在离小屋不远的地方，当她听到他的叫声时，她抬起头来，看到猿猴以几乎令人难以置信的速度跳了起来，对于如此庞大而笨拙的动物来说，它试图阻止克莱顿。

With a low cry she sprang toward the cabin, and, as she entered, gave a backward glance which filled her soul with terror, for the brute had intercepted her husband, who now stood at bay grasping his ax with both hands ready to swing it upon the infuriated animal when he should make his final charge.
她低声叫喊着向小屋跳去，当她走进去时，她回头看了一眼，心里充满了恐惧，因为那个畜生拦住了她的丈夫，而她的丈夫现在站在海湾，双手握住斧头准备挥舞它。当愤怒的动物应该做出最后的冲锋时。

‘Close and bolt the door, Alice,’ cried Clayton. ‘I can finish this fellow with my ax.’
“爱丽丝，把门关上并插上锁，”克莱顿喊道。 “我可以用我的斧头解决这个家伙。”

But he knew he was facing a horrible death, and so did she.
但他知道自己正面临着可怕的死亡，她也是如此。

The ape was a great bull, weighing probably three hundred pounds. His nasty, close-set eyes gleamed hatred from beneath his shaggy brows, while his great canine fangs were bared in a horrid snarl as he paused a moment before his prey.
那只猿是一头巨大的公牛，重约三百磅。他那双凶恶的、距离很近的眼睛从他蓬乱的眉毛下闪烁着仇恨的光芒，当他在猎物面前停了下来时，他的巨大的犬齿露出可怕的咆哮。

Over the brute’s shoulder Clayton could see the doorway of his cabin, not twenty paces distant, and a great wave of horror and fear swept over him as he saw his young wife emerge, armed with one of his rifles.
越过这个畜生的肩膀，克莱顿可以看到他的小屋的门口，距离不到二十步远，当他看到他年轻的妻子带着他的一支步枪出现时，一股巨大的恐惧和恐惧席卷了他。

She had always been afraid of firearms, and would never touch them, but now she rushed toward the ape with the fearlessness of a lioness protecting its young.
她一直害怕枪械，从来不敢碰，但现在，她以母狮护幼的无所畏惧冲向猿猴。

‘Back, Alice,’ shouted Clayton, ‘for God’s sake, go back.’
“回去吧，爱丽丝，”克莱顿喊道，“看在上帝的份上，回去吧。”

But she would not heed, and just then the ape charged, so that Clayton could say no more.
但她根本不理睬，就在这时，猿猴冲了过来，让克莱顿无法再说下去。

The man swung his ax with all his mighty strength, but the powerful brute seized it in those terrible hands, and tearing it from Clayton’s grasp hurled it far to one side.
那人用尽全身的力量挥舞着斧头，但那强大的畜生用那双可怕的手抓住了它，把它从克莱顿的手中扯了下来，把它远远地扔到了一边。

With an ugly snarl he closed upon his defenseless victim, but ere his fangs had reached the throat they thirsted for, there was a sharp report and a bullet entered the ape’s back between his shoulders.
他发出一声丑陋的咆哮，向手无寸铁的受害者逼近，但在他的尖牙到达他们渴望的喉咙之前，一声尖锐的响动，一颗子弹从他的肩膀之间射入了猿猴的背部。

Throwing Clayton to the ground the beast turned upon his new enemy. There before him stood the terrified girl vainly trying to fire another bullet into the animal’s body; but she did not understand the mechanism of the firearm, and the hammer fell futilely upon an empty cartridge.
野兽把克莱顿扔到地上，转而攻击他的新敌人。他面前站着那个惊恐的女孩，她徒劳地试图向动物的身体发射另一颗子弹。但她不明白枪械的原理，锤子徒劳地落在了一个空弹匣上。

Almost simultaneously Clayton regained his feet, and without thought of the utter hopelessness of it, he rushed forward to drag the ape from his wife’s prostrate form.
克莱顿几乎同时站了起来，他冲上前去，把那只猩猩从妻子倒在地上的身体上拖了出来，他没有想到这一切是多么绝望。

With little or no effort he succeeded, and the great bulk rolled inertly upon the turf before him—the ape was dead. The bullet had done its work.
他几乎不费吹灰之力就成功了，那巨大的物体在他面前的草地上毫无生气地滚动——那只猿猴死了。子弹已经完成了它的任务。

A hasty examination of his wife revealed no marks upon her, and Clayton decided that the huge brute had died the instant he had sprung toward Alice.
匆忙检查了他的妻子，没有发现她身上有任何痕迹，克莱顿断定，这个巨大的畜生在他冲向爱丽丝的那一刻就死了。

Gently he lifted his wife’s still unconscious form, and bore her to the little cabin, but it was fully two hours before she regained consciousness.
他轻轻地抱起了昏迷不醒的妻子，将她抱进了小木屋，但足足过了两个小时，她才恢复知觉。

Her first words filled Clayton with vague apprehension. For some time after regaining her senses, Alice gazed wonderingly about the interior of the little cabin, and then, with a satisfied sigh, said:
她的第一句话让克莱顿充满了隐约的忧虑。回过神来后，爱丽丝疑惑地打量着小木屋的内部，满意地叹了口气说道：

‘O, John, it is so good to be really home! I have had an awful dream, dear. I thought we were no longer in London, but in some horrible place where great beasts attacked us.’
‘哦，约翰，真正回到家真是太好了！我做了一个可怕的梦，亲爱的。我以为我们已经不在伦敦了，而是在某个可怕的地方，那里有巨兽袭击了我们。”

‘There, there, Alice,’ he said, stroking her forehead, ‘try to sleep again, and do not worry your head about bad dreams.’
“好了，好了，爱丽丝，”他抚摸着她的额头，“试着再睡一觉，别担心你会做恶梦。”

That night a little son was born in the tiny cabin beside the primeval forest, while a leopard screamed before the door, and the deep notes of a lion’s roar sounded from beyond the ridge.
当晚，在原始森林旁的小木屋里，一个小儿子诞生了，门前豹子尖叫，山脊外传来低沉的狮吼声。

Lady Greystoke never recovered from the shock of the great ape’s attack, and, though she lived for a year after her baby was born, she was never again outside the cabin, nor did she ever fully realize that she was not in England.
格雷斯托克夫人从未从巨猿袭击的震惊中恢复过来，尽管她的孩子出生后她又活了一年，但她再也没有走出过小屋，也没有完全意识到自己并不在英格兰。

Sometimes she would question Clayton as to the strange noises of the nights; the absence of servants and friends, and the strange rudeness of the furnishings within her room, but, though he made no effort to deceive her, never could she grasp the meaning of it all.
有时她会向克莱顿询问夜间的奇怪声音。没有仆人和朋友，房间里的陈设奇特简陋，但是，尽管他没有试图欺骗她，但她永远无法理解这一切的含义。

In other ways she was quite rational, and the joy and happiness she took in the possession of her little son and the constant attentions of her husband made that year a very happy one for her, the happiest of her young life.
在其他方面，她是相当理性的，拥有小儿子的快乐和幸福，以及丈夫不断的关注，使那一年对她来说是非常幸福的一年，是她年轻生命中最幸福的一年。

That it would have been beset by worries and apprehension had she been in full command of her mental faculties Clayton well knew; so that while he suffered terribly to see her so, there were times when he was almost glad, for her sake, that she could not understand.
克莱顿很清楚，如果她能完全控制自己的心理能力，她就会被忧虑和忧虑所困扰。因此，虽然他看到她这样感到非常痛苦，但有时他也为她的缘故而感到高兴，因为她无法理解。

Long since had he given up any hope of rescue, except through accident. With unremitting zeal he had worked to beautify the interior of the cabin.
他早已放弃了任何营救的希望，除非是意外。他以不懈的热情致力于美化小屋的内部。

Skins of lion and panther covered the floor. Cupboards and bookcases lined the walls. Odd vases made by his own hand from the clay of the region held beautiful tropical flowers. Curtains of grass and bamboo covered the windows, and, most arduous task of all, with his meager assortment of tools he had fashioned lumber to neatly seal the walls and ceiling and lay a smooth floor within the cabin.
地板上铺满了狮皮和豹皮。墙壁上排列着橱柜和书柜。他用当地的粘土亲手制作了一些奇怪的花瓶，里面插着美丽的热带花卉。窗户上覆盖着草和竹子的窗帘，最艰巨的任务是，他用他仅有的几种工具制作了木材，整齐地密封了墙壁和天花板，并在小屋内铺设了光滑的地板。

That he had been able to turn his hands at all to such unaccustomed labor was a source of mild wonder to him. But he loved the work because it was for her and the tiny life that had come to cheer them, though adding a hundredfold to his responsibilities and to the terribleness of their situation.
他竟然能够把双手转向这种不习惯的劳动，这让他感到有点惊讶。但他热爱这份工作，因为它是为了她和为他们带来欢乐的小生命，尽管这让他的责任和他们处境的可怕增加了一百倍。

During the year that followed, Clayton was several times attacked by the great apes which now seemed to continually infest the vicinity of the cabin; but as he never again ventured outside without both rifle and revolvers he had little fear of the huge beasts.
在接下来的一年里，克莱顿多次受到类人猿的袭击，这些类人猿现在似乎不断出没在小屋附近。但由于他再也没有在没有步枪和左轮手枪的情况下冒险外出，所以他对这些巨大的野兽并不感到恐惧。

He had strengthened the window protections and fitted a unique wooden lock to the cabin door, so that when he hunted for game and fruits, as it was constantly necessary for him to do to insure sustenance, he had no fear that any animal could break into the little home.
他加强了窗户的保护，并在小屋门上安装了独特的木锁，这样当他狩猎野味和水果时（因为他经常需要这样做来确保食物），他就不用担心任何动物会闯入。小家。

At first he shot much of the game from the cabin windows, but toward the end the animals learned to fear the strange lair from whence issued the terrifying thunder of his rifle.
起初，他大部分的猎物都是从船舱的窗户里射击的，但到了最后，动物们学会了害怕这个奇怪的巢穴，他的步枪从那里发出可怕的雷声。

In his leisure Clayton read, often aloud to his wife, from the store of books he had brought for their new home. Among these were many for little children—picture books, primers, readers—for they had known that their little child would be old enough for such before they might hope to return to England.
闲暇时，克莱顿会阅读他为新家带来的书店里的书，并经常大声朗读给妻子听。其中有许多是为小孩子准备的——图画书、初级读物、读物——因为他们知道，在他们希望返回英国之前，他们的小孩已经足够大了，可以读这些书了。

At other times Clayton wrote in his diary, which he had always been accustomed to keep in French, and in which he recorded the details of their strange life. This book he kept locked in a little metal box.
克莱顿有时会用法语写日记，记录他们奇怪的生活细节。他把这本书锁在一个小金属盒子里。

A year from the day her little son was born Lady Alice passed quietly away in the night. So peaceful was her end that it was hours before Clayton could awake to a realization that his wife was dead.
在她的小儿子出生一年后，爱丽丝女士在夜里静静地去世了。她的结局是如此平静，以至于克莱顿几个小时后才醒来，意识到他的妻子已经死了。

The horror of the situation came to him very slowly, and it is doubtful that he ever fully realized the enormity of his sorrow and the fearful responsibility that had devolved upon him with the care of that wee thing, his son, still a nursing babe.
这种可怕的情况慢慢地降临在他身上，令人怀疑的是，他是否完全意识到了他的悲伤的巨大性，以及照顾那个小东西，他的儿子，仍然是一个正在哺乳的婴儿的可怕责任。

The last entry in his diary was made the morning following her death, and there he recites the sad details in a matter-offact way that adds to the pathos of it; for it breathes a tired apathy born of long sorrow and hopelessness, which even this cruel blow could scarcely awake to further suffering:
他日记中的最后一篇是在她去世后的第二天早上写的，他以一种实事求是的方式背诵了悲伤的细节，增加了悲伤的感觉；因为它散发出一种因长期悲伤和绝望而产生的疲倦的冷漠，即使是这种残酷的打击也几乎无法唤醒进一步的痛苦：

My little son is crying for nourishment—O Alice, Alice, what shall I do?
我的小儿子哭着要营养——噢，爱丽丝，爱丽丝，我该怎么办？

And as John Clayton wrote the last words his hand was destined ever to pen, he dropped his head wearily upon his outstretched arms where they rested upon the table he had built for her who lay still and cold in the bed beside him.
当约翰·克莱顿写下他的手注定要写下的最后一句话时，他疲惫地把头靠在伸出的手臂上，手臂放在他为她做的桌子上，她静静地躺在他旁边的床上。

For a long time no sound broke the deathlike stillness of the jungle midday save the piteous wailing of the tiny man-child.
很长一段时间，除了那个小男孩可怜的哭声，没有任何声音打破正午丛林死一般的寂静。

Chapter 4
第4章


The Apes
类人猿

In the forest of the table-land a mile back from the ocean old Kerchak the Ape was on a rampage of rage among his people.
在距离大海一英里远的高原森林里，老猿猴克恰克正在他的族人中肆意狂暴。

The younger and lighter members of his tribe scampered to the higher branches of the great trees to escape his wrath; risking their lives upon branches that scarce supported their weight rather than face old Kerchak in one of his fits of uncontrolled anger.
部落中年轻、体重较轻的成员纷纷逃到大树较高的树枝上，以躲避他的愤怒。他们冒着生命危险站在几乎无法支撑自己体重的树枝上，也不愿面对老克尔查克（Kerchak）的一场失控的愤怒。

The other males scattered in all directions, but not before the infuriated brute had felt the vertebra of one snap between his great, foaming jaws.
其他雄性四散而去，但在这之前，这头愤怒的野兽感觉到其中一根椎骨在他那张冒着泡沫的大嘴之间折断了。

A luckless young female slipped from an insecure hold upon a high branch and came crashing to the ground almost at Kerchak’s feet.
一只不幸的年轻雌性从高高的树枝上不安全的抓握处滑落，几乎摔倒在克尔恰克脚边的地面上。

With a wild scream he was upon her, tearing a great piece from her side with his mighty teeth, and striking her viciously upon her head and shoulders with a broken tree limb until her skull was crushed to a jelly.
他发出一声狂野的尖叫，扑向她，用他强大的牙齿从她身边撕下一大块，并用一根折断的树枝狠狠地击打她的头部和肩膀，直到她的头骨被压碎成果冻。

And then he spied Kala, who, returning from a search for food with her young babe, was ignorant of the state of the mighty male’s temper until suddenly the shrill warnings of her fellows caused her to scamper madly for safety.
然后他发现了卡拉，她和她的小宝贝一起寻找食物回来，对这个强大的雄性的脾气一无所知，直到突然，她的伙伴们发出尖锐的警告，让她疯狂地逃命。

But Kerchak was close upon her, so close that he had almost grasped her ankle had she not made a furious leap far into space from one tree to another—a perilous chance which apes seldom if ever take, unless so closely pursued by danger that there is no alternative.
但克尔恰克离她很近，距离太近了，要不是她猛烈地从一棵树跳到另一棵树，他几乎要抓住她的脚踝——这是一个危险的机会，猿类很少会采取这种机会，除非受到危险的紧密追赶，以至于是别无选择。

She made the leap successfully, but as she grasped the limb of the further tree the sudden jar loosened the hold of the tiny babe where it clung frantically to her neck, and she saw the little thing hurled, turning and twisting, to the ground thirty feet below.
她成功地跳跃了，但是当她抓住另一棵树的树枝时，突然的震颤松开了那个小婴儿的控制，它疯狂地紧贴着她的脖子，她看到这个小东西被扔到了地面上，旋转着，扭曲着。脚在下面。

With a low cry of dismay Kala rushed headlong to its side, thoughtless now of the danger from Kerchak; but when she gathered the wee, mangled form to her bosom life had left it.
卡拉沮丧地低声叫喊，一头冲到它的身边，现在没有考虑来自克尔恰克的危险。但当她把那颗小东西抱到怀里时，生命已经离开了它。

With low moans, she sat cuddling the body to her; nor did Kerchak attempt to molest her. With the death of the babe his fit of demoniacal rage passed as suddenly as it had seized him.
她低声呻吟着，坐在那里，将身体搂在怀里。 Kerchak也没有试图骚扰她。随着婴儿的死，他的恶魔般的愤怒突然消失了，就像它抓住了他一样。

Kerchak was a huge king ape, weighing perhaps three hundred and fifty pounds. His forehead was extremely low and receding, his eyes bloodshot, small and close set to his coarse, flat nose; his ears large and thin, but smaller than most of his kind.
克查克是一只巨大的王猿，重约三百五十磅。他的前额极低，后缩，眼睛布满血丝，眼睛很小，紧挨着粗糙、扁平的鼻子。他的耳朵又大又薄，但比大多数同类都要小。

His awful temper and his mighty strength made him supreme among the little tribe into which he had been born some twenty years before.
他那可怕的脾气和强大的力量使他在大约二十年前出生的小部落中成为至高无上的人物。

Now that he was in his prime, there was no simian in all the mighty forest through which he roved that dared contest his right to rule, nor did the other and larger animals molest him.
现在他正值壮年，在他所穿行的这片辽阔森林里，没有一只猿猴敢于挑战他的统治权，也没有其他更大的动物骚扰他。

Old Tantor, the elephant, alone of all the wild savage life, feared him not—and he alone did Kerchak fear. When Tantor trumpeted, the great ape scurried with his fellows high among the trees of the second terrace.
老坦托大象，在所有野生动物中，唯一不怕他的——只有他害怕克尔恰克。当坦托吹响号角时，巨猿和他的伙伴们就在第二层露台的高树丛中奔跑起来。

The tribe of anthropoids over which Kerchak ruled with an iron hand and bared fangs, numbered some six or eight families, each family consisting of an adult male with his females and their young, numbering in all some sixty or seventy apes.
克查克用铁腕和獠牙统治着这个类人猿部落，大约有六到八个家族，每个家族由一名成年雄性和雌性及其幼崽组成，总共约有六十或七十只猿类。

Kala was the youngest mate of a male called Tublat, meaning broken nose, and the child she had seen dashed to death was her first; for she was but nine or ten years old.
卡拉是一只名叫“图布拉特”（Tublat）的雄性动物最小的配偶，她的第一个孩子就是她亲眼所见的被摔死的孩子。因为她只有九岁或十岁。

Notwithstanding her youth, she was large and powerful—a splendid, clean-limbed animal, with a round, high forehead, which denoted more intelligence than most of her kind possessed. So, also, she had a great capacity for mother love and mother sorrow.
尽管她很年轻，但她身材高大、力量强大——是一种出色的、四肢干净的动物，有着圆圆的、高高的额头，这表明她比她的大多数同类拥有更多的智慧。因此，她也具有很强的母爱和母亲悲伤的能力。

But she was still an ape, a huge, fierce, terrible beast of a species closely allied to the gorilla, yet more intelligent; which, with the strength of their cousin, made her kind the most fearsome of those awe-inspiring progenitors of man.
但她仍然是一只猿，是一种巨大、凶猛、可怕的野兽，与大猩猩关系密切，但更聪明。凭借他们表弟的力量，她的种族成为那些令人敬畏的人类祖先中最可怕的。

When the tribe saw that Kerchak’s rage had ceased they came slowly down from their arboreal retreats and pursued again the various occupations which he had interrupted.
当部落看到克恰克的愤怒平息后，他们慢慢地从树上撤退，继续从事他中断的各种工作。

The young played and frolicked about among the trees and bushes. Some of the adults lay prone upon the soft mat of dead and decaying vegetation which covered the ground, while others turned over pieces of fallen branches and clods of earth in search of the small bugs and reptiles which formed a part of their food.
年轻人在树木和灌木丛中玩耍、嬉戏。一些成虫俯卧在覆盖地面的死亡和腐烂植被的柔软垫子上，而另一些成虫则翻转掉落的树枝和土块，寻找构成其食物一部分的小虫子和爬行动物。

Others, again, searched the surrounding trees for fruit, nuts, small birds, and eggs.
其他人则再次在周围的树木中寻找水果、坚果、小鸟和鸡蛋。

They had passed an hour or so thus when Kerchak called them together, and, with a word of command to them to follow him, set off toward the sea.
就这样过了一个小时左右，克尔恰克把他们叫到一起，命令他们跟着他，向大海出发。

They traveled for the most part upon the ground, where it was open, following the path of the great elephants whose comings and goings break the only roads through those tangled mazes of bush, vine, creeper, and tree. When they walked it was with a rolling, awkward motion, placing the knuckles of their closed hands upon the ground and swinging their ungainly bodies forward.
他们大部分时间都是在开阔的地面上行走，沿着大象的足迹，大象的出入打破了唯一的道路，穿过灌木丛、藤蔓、爬山虎和树木的迷宫。当他们走路时，他们的动作是滚动的、笨拙的，他们把紧握的双手的指关节放在地上，并向前摆动着笨拙的身体。

But when the way was through the lower trees they moved more swiftly, swinging from branch to branch with the agility of their smaller cousins, the monkeys. And all the way Kala carried her little dead baby hugged closely to her breast.
但当路穿过较低的树木时，它们的移动速度更快，像它们的小表亲猴子一样敏捷，从一个树枝荡到另一个树枝。卡拉一路上抱着她死去的小婴儿，紧紧地抱在胸前。

It was shortly after noon when they reached a ridge overlooking the beach where below them lay the tiny cottage which was Kerchak’s goal.
中午过后不久，他们到达了一座俯瞰海滩的山脊，山下是克恰克的目标，那是一座小小屋。

He had seen many of his kind go to their deaths before the loud noise made by the little black stick in the hands of the strange white ape who lived in that wonderful lair, and Kerchak had made up his brute mind to own that death-dealing contrivance, and to explore the interior of the mysterious den.
他亲眼目睹了许多同类在生活在那个美妙的巢穴中的奇怪白猿手中的小黑棍发出巨响之前死去，克查克已经下定决心要拥有那只致命的东西。发明，并探索神秘巢穴的内部。

He wanted, very, very much, to feel his teeth sink into the neck of the queer animal that he had learned to hate and fear, and because of this, he came often with his tribe to reconnoiter, waiting for a time when the white ape should be off his guard.
他非常非常想要感觉自己的牙齿咬进这只他已经学会憎恨和恐惧的奇怪动物的脖子里，正因为如此，他经常带着他的部落前来侦察，等待白种人出现的时候。猿应该放松警惕。

Of late they had quit attacking, or even showing themselves; for every time they had done so in the past the little stick had roared out its terrible message of death to some member of the tribe.
最近他们不再攻击，甚至不再露面。过去，每次他们这样做时，这根小棍子都会向部落的某些成员发出可怕的死亡信息。

Today there was no sign of the man about, and from where they watched they could see that the cabin door was open. Slowly, cautiously, and noiselessly they crept through the jungle toward the little cabin.
今天，周围没有那个人的踪迹，从他们的观察中，他们可以看到小屋的门是开着的。他们缓慢地、小心翼翼地、悄无声息地穿过丛林，朝小木屋走去。

There were no growls, no fierce screams of rage—the little black stick had taught them to come quietly lest they awaken it.
没有咆哮声，没有愤怒的激烈尖叫——那根小黑棍教会了他们要安静地过来，以免吵醒它。

On, on they came until Kerchak himself slunk stealthily to the very door and peered within. Behind him were two males, and then Kala, closely straining the little dead form to her breast.
他们继续前进，直到克恰克本人偷偷地溜到门口，向里面张望。在他身后是两个雄性，然后是卡拉，紧紧地将这个小尸体紧紧地抱在胸前。

Inside the den they saw the strange white ape lying half across a table, his head buried in his arms; and on the bed lay a figure covered by a sailcloth, while from a tiny rustic cradle came the plaintive wailing of a babe.
在巢穴里，他们看到那只奇怪的白猿半躺在桌子上，把头埋在怀里。床上躺着一个人，身上盖着帆布，一个乡村风格的小摇篮里传来婴儿哀怨的哭声。

Noiselessly Kerchak entered, crouching for the charge; and then John Clayton rose with a sudden start and faced them.
克尔查克悄无声息地进来了，蹲下准备冲锋。然后约翰·克莱顿突然站了起来，面向他们。

The sight that met his eyes must have frozen him with horror, for there, within the door, stood three great bull apes, while behind them crowded many more; how many he never knew, for his revolvers were hanging on the far wall beside his rifle, and Kerchak was charging.
他眼前的景象一定让他惊恐万状，因为门内站着三只巨大的牛猿，而它们后面则挤满了更多的牛猿。他不知道有多少，因为他的左轮手枪挂在远处的墙上，旁边是他的步枪，而克恰克正在冲锋。

When the king ape released the limp form which had been John Clayton, Lord Greystoke, he turned his attention toward the little cradle; but Kala was there before him, and when he would have grasped the child she snatched it herself, and before he could intercept her she had bolted through the door and taken refuge in a high tree.
当王猿释放了约翰·克莱顿，格雷斯托克勋爵的软弱躯体时，他将注意力转向了小摇篮。但卡拉就在他前面，当他想要抓住孩子时，她自己一把抓住了孩子，在他拦截她之前，她已经冲出了门，躲在一棵高树上。

As she took up the little live baby of Alice Clayton she dropped the dead body of her own into the empty cradle; for the wail of the living had answered the call of universal motherhood within her wild breast which the dead could not still.
当她抱起爱丽丝·克莱顿的小活婴时，她把自己的尸体扔进了空摇篮里。因为生者的哀号回应了她狂野胸怀中普遍母性的呼唤，而死者却无法平息这一呼唤。

High up among the branches of a mighty tree she hugged the shrieking infant to her bosom, and soon the instinct that was as dominant in this fierce female as it had been in the breast of his tender and beautiful mother—the instinct of mother love—reached out to the tiny man-child’s half-formed understanding, and he became quiet.
她在一棵参天大树的高枝间，将尖叫的婴儿抱在怀里，很快，本能在这个凶猛的女性身上占据了主导地位，就像在他温柔美丽的母亲的怀里一样——母爱的本能——把手伸向小男孩半成形的理解力，他安静了下来。

Then hunger closed the gap between them, and the son of an English lord and an English lady nursed at the breast of Kala, the great ape.
然后，饥饿缩小了他们之间的差距，一位英国贵族和一位英国女士的儿子在巨猿卡拉的怀里吃奶。

In the meantime the beasts within the cabin were warily examining the contents of this strange lair.
与此同时，小屋内的野兽正在警惕地检查这个奇怪巢穴中的东西。

Once satisfied that Clayton was dead, Kerchak turned his attention to the thing which lay upon the bed, covered by a piece of sailcloth.
一旦确信克莱顿已经死了，克尔查克就把注意力转向床上的那个东西，上面覆盖着一块帆布。

Gingerly he lifted one corner of the shroud, but when he saw the body of the woman beneath he tore the cloth roughly from her form and seized the still, white throat in his huge, hairy hands.
他小心翼翼地掀起裹尸布的一角，但当他看到下面女人的尸体时，他粗暴地将裹尸布从她身上撕下来，用他毛茸茸的大手抓住了静止的白色喉咙。

A moment he let his fingers sink deep into the cold flesh, and then, realizing that she was already dead, he turned from her, to examine the contents of the room; nor did he again molest the body of either Lady Alice or Sir John.
过了一会儿，他让手指深深地陷入冰冷的肉体中，然后，意识到她已经死了，他转身离开她，检查房间里的东西。他也没有再骚扰爱丽丝女士或约翰爵士的身体。

The rifle hanging upon the wall caught his first attention; it was for this strange, death-dealing thunder-stick that he had yearned for months; but now that it was within his grasp he scarcely had the temerity to seize it.
挂在墙上的步枪首先引起了他的注意。他几个月来一直渴望的就是这把奇怪的、致命的雷霆棍。但现在它已在他的掌握之中，他却不敢贸然去夺取。

Cautiously he approached the thing, ready to flee precipitately should it speak in its deep roaring tones, as he had heard it speak before, the last words to those of his kind who, through ignorance or rashness, had attacked the wonderful white ape that had borne it.
他小心翼翼地接近那东西，准备好在它用低沉的咆哮声说话时迅速逃跑，就像他以前听过它说话一样，这是对那些因无知或鲁莽而攻击了那只奇妙的白猿的同类的最后一句话。承受了它。

Deep in the beast’s intelligence was something which assured him that the thunder-stick was only dangerous when in the hands of one who could manipulate it, but yet it was several minutes ere he could bring himself to touch it.
在这头野兽的智慧深处，有一种东西让他确信，雷霆棒只有在能够操纵它的人手中才是危险的，但他还是过了几分钟才让自己触碰它。

Instead, he walked back and forth along the floor before it, turning his head so that never once did his eyes leave the object of his desire.
相反，他沿着它前面的地板来回走动，转动着头，这样他的眼睛就没有离开过他渴望的物体。

Using his long arms as a man uses crutches, and rolling his huge carcass from side to side with each stride, the great king ape paced to and fro, uttering deep growls, occasionally punctuated with the ear-piercing scream, than which there is no more terrifying noise in all the jungle.
巨大的王猿像人一样拄着拐杖，用长长的手臂，每一步都将巨大的尸体从一边滚到另一边，来回踱步，发出低沉的咆哮，偶尔还夹杂着刺耳的尖叫声，这是没有比这更好的了。整个丛林中传来更加可怕的噪音。

Presently he halted before the rifle. Slowly he raised a huge hand until it almost touched the shining barrel, only to withdraw it once more and continue his hurried pacing.
不久，他在步枪前停了下来。他慢慢地举起一只大手，直到几乎触到了闪亮的木桶，才再次收回，继续他匆忙的踱步。

It was as though the great brute by this show of fearlessness, and through the medium of his wild voice, was endeavoring to bolster up his courage to the point which would permit him to take the rifle in his hand.
就好像这个伟大的野兽通过这种无畏的表现，通过他狂野的声音，努力增强他的勇气，让他能够拿起手中的步枪。

Again he stopped, and this time succeeded in forcing his reluctant hand to the cold steel, only to snatch it away almost immediately and resume his restless beat.
他再次停了下来，这一次成功地将他不情愿的手逼到了冰冷的钢铁上，却又几乎立即将它夺走并恢复了他不安的节奏。

Time after time this strange ceremony was repeated, but on each occasion with increased confidence, until, finally, the rifle was torn from its hook and lay in the grasp of the great brute.
这种奇怪的仪式一次又一次地重复着，但每次的信心都增强了，直到最后，步枪从钩子上扯下来，落在了这个大畜生的手中。

Finding that it harmed him not, Kerchak began to examine it closely. He felt of it from end to end, peered down the black depths of the muzzle, fingered the sights, the breech, the stock, and finally the trigger.
克查克发现它对他没有伤害，于是开始仔细检查它。他从头到尾摸索着，凝视着枪口黑色的深处，用手指抚摸着瞄准器、后膛、枪托，最后是扳机。

During all these operations the apes who had entered sat huddled near the door watching their chief, while those outside strained and crowded to catch a glimpse of what transpired within.
在所有这些行动期间，进来的猩猩们挤在门边看着它们的首领，而外面的人则紧张地拥挤着，想一睹里面发生的事情。

Suddenly Kerchak’s finger closed upon the trigger. There was a deafening roar in the little room and the apes at and beyond the door fell over one another in their wild anxiety to escape.
突然，克查克的手指扣上了扳机。小房间里发出震耳欲聋的吼叫声，门外和门外的猩猩们争先恐后地争先恐后地逃跑。

Kerchak was equally frightened, so frightened, in fact, that he quite forgot to throw aside the author of that fearful noise, but bolted for the door with it tightly clutched in one hand.
克尔查克也同样害怕，事实上，他害怕得忘记了把发出那可怕声音的人扔到一边，而是用一只手紧紧地抓住门，用螺栓向门外冲去。

As he passed through the opening, the front sight of the rifle caught upon the edge of the inswung door with sufficient force to close it tightly after the fleeing ape.
当他穿过开口时，步枪的准星以足够的力量抓住了内旋门的边缘，在逃走的猿猴之后将门紧紧地关闭了。

When Kerchak came to a halt a short distance from the cabin and discovered that he still held the rifle, he dropped it as he might have dropped a red hot iron, nor did he again attempt to recover it—the noise was too much for his brute nerves; but he was now quite convinced that the terrible stick was quite harmless by itself if left alone.
当克查克在离小屋不远的地方停下来，发现他还拿着步枪时，他把它扔掉了，就像他掉了一块烧红的烙铁一样，他也没有再试图把它捡起来——噪音对他来说太大了。粗暴的神经；但他现在非常确信，如果不去管这根可怕的棍子，它本身是无害的。

It was an hour before the apes could again bring themselves to approach the cabin to continue their investigations, and when they finally did so, they found to their chagrin that the door was closed and so securely fastened that they could not force it.
一个小时后，猩猩们才再次接近小屋继续调查，当它们最终这样做时，它们懊恼地发现门是关着的，而且锁得很紧，以至于它们无法强行打开。

The cleverly constructed latch which Clayton had made for the door had sprung as Kerchak passed out; nor could the apes find means of ingress through the heavily barred windows.
当克恰克昏倒时，克莱顿为门制作的巧妙的门闩突然弹开了。猿类也无法通过严密的窗户进入。

After roaming about the vicinity for a short time, they started back for the deeper forests and the higher land from whence they had come.
在附近徘徊了一会儿之后，他们开始返回原来的更深的森林和更高的地方。

Kala had not once come to earth with her little adopted babe, but now Kerchak called to her to descend with the rest, and as there was no note of anger in his voice she dropped lightly from branch to branch and joined the others on their homeward march.
卡拉一次都没有带着她领养的小宝贝来到地球，但现在克查克叫她和其他人一起下降，由于他的声音中没有愤怒的意思，她轻轻地从一个树枝落到另一个树枝上，加入了其他人的归途。行进。

Those of the apes who attempted to examine Kala’s strange baby were repulsed with bared fangs and low menacing growls, accompanied by words of warning from Kala.
那些试图检查卡拉奇怪婴儿的猿猴都被暴露的獠牙和低沉的威胁性咆哮所击退，并伴随着卡拉的警告。

When they assured her that they meant the child no harm she permitted them to come close, but would not allow them to touch her charge.
当他们向她保证他们无意伤害孩子时，她允许他们靠近，但不允许他们碰她的孩子。

It was as though she knew that her baby was frail and delicate and feared lest the rough hands of her fellows might injure the little thing.
她仿佛知道自己的孩子娇弱，生怕同伴粗鲁的双手会伤害到这个小东西。

Another thing she did, and which made traveling an onerous trial for her. Remembering the death of her own little one, she clung desperately to the new babe, with one hand, whenever they were upon the march.
她做了另一件事，这使旅行对她来说成为一项繁重的考验。每当他们行军时，她就想起自己的小宝贝的死，用一只手拼命地抱住新生的婴儿。

The other young rode upon their mothers’ backs; their little arms tightly clasping the hairy necks before them, while their legs were locked beneath their mothers’ armpits.
其他的幼崽则骑在母亲的背上。他们的小手臂紧紧地抱住面前毛茸茸的脖子，双腿则锁在母亲的腋下。

Not so with Kala; she held the small form of the little Lord Greystoke tightly to her breast, where the dainty hands clutched the long black hair which covered that portion of her body. She had seen one child fall from her back to a terrible death, and she would take no further chances with this.
卡拉则不然。她把小格雷斯托克勋爵的娇小身躯紧紧抱在胸前，纤细的双手抓着覆盖着她身体那部分的黑色长发。她亲眼目睹过一个孩子从她背上摔下来惨死，她不会再冒险了。

Chapter 5
第5章


The White Ape
白猿

Tenderly Kala nursed her little waif, wondering silently why it did not gain strength and agility as did the little apes of other mothers. It was nearly a year from the time the little fellow came into her possession before he would walk alone, and as for climbing—my, but how stupid he was!
温柔的卡拉照顾着她的小流浪儿，默默地想知道为什么它没有像其他母亲的小猩猩那样获得力量和敏捷。自从这小家伙被她占有以来，已经快一年了，他才能够独自行走，至于爬山——天哪，他是多么愚蠢啊！

Kala sometimes talked with the older females about her young hopeful, but none of them could understand how a child could be so slow and backward in learning to care for itself. Why, it could not even find food alone, and more than twelve moons had passed since Kala had come upon it.
卡拉有时会和年长的雌性谈论她年轻的希望，但没有人能理解一个孩子在学习照顾自己方面怎么会如此缓慢和落后。哎呀，它连食物都找不到，自从卡拉来到它面前以来，已经过去了十二个多月了。

Had they known that the child had seen thirteen moons before it had come into Kala’s possession they would have considered its case as absolutely hopeless, for the little apes of their own tribe were as far advanced in two or three moons as was this little stranger after twenty-five.
如果他们知道这个孩子在被卡拉占有之前已经看到了十三个月，他们就会认为这件事是绝对没有希望的，因为他们自己部落的小猿类在两到三个月亮方面已经先进了，就像这个小陌生人在进入卡拉之前一样。二十五。

Tublat, Kala’s husband, was sorely vexed, and but for the female’s careful watching would have put the child out of the way.
卡拉的丈夫图布拉特非常恼火，要不是雌性的细心观察，孩子就不会受到影响。

‘He will never be a great ape,’ he argued. ‘Always will you have to carry him and protect him. What good will he be to the tribe? None; only a burden.
“他永远不会成为一只大猩猩，”他争辩道。 ‘你必须永远背负他并保护他。他对部落有什么好处？没有任何;只是一个负担。

‘Let us leave him quietly sleeping among the tall grasses, that you may bear other and stronger apes to guard us in our old age.’
“让我们让他安静地睡在高高的草丛中，这样你就可以养其他更强壮的猿猴来守护我们的晚年。”

‘Never, Broken Nose,’ replied Kala. ‘If I must carry him forever, so be it.’
“从来没有，断鼻子，”卡拉回答道。 “如果我必须永远带着他，那就这样吧。”

And then Tublat went to Kerchak to urge him to use his authority with Kala, and force her to give up little Tarzan, which was the name they had given to the tiny Lord Greystoke, and which meant ‘White-Skin.’
然后图布拉特去找克尔恰克，敦促他对卡拉运用自己的权威，强迫她放弃小泰山，这是他们给小格雷斯托克勋爵起的名字，意思是“白皮肤”。

But when Kerchak spoke to her about it Kala threatened to run away from the tribe if they did not leave her in peace with the child; and as this is one of the inalienable rights of the jungle folk, if they be dissatisfied among their own people, they bothered her no more, for Kala was a fine clean-limbed young female, and they did not wish to lose her.
但当克查克向她讲述这件事时，卡拉威胁说，如果他们不让她和孩子和平相处，她就要逃离部落。这是丛林居民不可剥夺的权利之一，如果他们对自己的人民不满意，他们就不再打扰她，因为卡拉是一位四肢干净的漂亮年轻女性，他们不想失去她。

As Tarzan grew he made more rapid strides, so that by the time he was ten years old he was an excellent climber, and on the ground could do many wonderful things which were beyond the powers of his little brothers and sisters.
随着泰山的成长，他的步伐越来越快，到了十岁的时候，他已经成为一名出色的登山者，在地面上可以做许多超出他的弟弟妹妹们能力范围的奇妙事情。

In many ways did he differ from them, and they often marveled at his superior cunning, but in strength and size he was deficient; for at ten the great anthropoids were fully grown, some of them towering over six feet in height, while little Tarzan was still but a half-grown boy.
他在很多方面与他们不同，他们常常惊叹于他高超的狡猾，但在力量和体型上他却有所不足；因为十岁时，类人猿就完全长大了，其中一些身高超过六英尺，而小泰山还只是一个半大的男孩。

Yet such a boy!
还是这样的一个男孩！

From early childhood he had used his hands to swing from branch to branch after the manner of his giant mother, and as he grew older he spent hour upon hour daily speeding through the tree tops with his brothers and sisters.
从孩提时代起，他就按照他巨人母亲的方式用手从一根树枝荡到另一根树枝，随着年龄的增长，他每天花几个小时与他的兄弟姐妹一起在树顶飞驰。

He could spring twenty feet across space at the dizzy heights of the forest top, and grasp with unerring precision, and without apparent jar, a limb waving wildly in the path of an approaching tornado.
他可以在森林顶部令人晕眩的高度上跳跃二十英尺，准确无误地抓住在逼近的龙卷风路径上疯狂挥舞的肢体，而不会出现明显的震动。

He could drop twenty feet at a stretch from limb to limb in rapid descent to the ground, or he could gain the utmost pinnacle of the loftiest tropical giant with the ease and swiftness of a squirrel.
他可以从一个肢体到另一个肢体一次下降二十英尺，然后快速下降到地面，或者他可以像松鼠一样轻松快捷地到达最高的热带巨人的顶峰。

Though but ten years old he was fully as strong as the average man of thirty, and far more agile than the most practiced athlete ever becomes. And day by day his strength was increasing.
尽管只有十岁，他却和三十岁的普通人一样强壮，而且比最训练有素的运动员敏捷得多。而且他的实力也在一天天的增强。

His life among these fierce apes had been happy; for his recollection held no other life, nor did he know that there existed within the universe aught else than his little forest and the wild jungle animals with which he was familiar.
他在这些凶猛的猿类中生活得很幸福。因为他的记忆中没有其他的生命，他也不知道宇宙中除了他的小森林和他熟悉的野生丛林动物之外还存在其他东西。

He was nearly ten before he commenced to realize that a great difference existed between himself and his fellows. His little body, burned brown by exposure, suddenly caused him feelings of intense shame, for he realized that it was entirely hairless, like some low snake, or other reptile.
他快十岁了，才开始意识到自己和同伴之间存在着巨大的差异。他小小的身体被暴露在外，被晒成棕色，突然让他感到强烈的羞耻感，因为他意识到它完全没有毛发，就像一些低等的蛇或其他爬行动物。

He attempted to obviate this by plastering himself from head to foot with mud, but this dried and fell off. Besides it felt so uncomfortable that he quickly decided that he preferred the shame to the discomfort.
他试图从头到脚涂满泥浆来避免这种情况，但泥浆干了就脱落了。此外，这种感觉太不舒服了，他很快就决定，比起不舒服，他更喜欢羞耻感。

In the higher land which his tribe frequented was a little lake, and it was here that Tarzan first saw his face in the clear, still waters of its bosom.
在他的部落经常光顾的高地上有一个小湖，正是在这里，泰山第一次在清澈、平静的湖水里看到了自己的脸。

It was on a sultry day of the dry season that he and one of his cousins had gone down to the bank to drink. As they leaned ov
那是旱季闷热的一天，他和他的一个堂兄弟去河岸喝酒。当他们俯身时

Chapter 6
第6章


Jungle Battles
丛林战

The wanderings of the tribe brought them often near the closed and silent cabin by the little land-locked harbor. To Tarzan this was always a source of never-ending mystery and pleasure.
部落的流浪使他们常常来到内陆小港口旁封闭而寂静的小屋附近。对于泰山来说，这始终是永无休止的神秘和快乐的源泉。

He would peek into the curtained windows, or, climbing upon the roof, peer down the black depths of the chimney in vain endeavor to solve the unknown wonders that lay within those strong walls.
他会向拉着窗帘的窗户里偷看，或者爬上屋顶，往烟囱的黑色深处看去，但徒劳地试图解决那些坚固的墙壁内未知的奇迹。

His child-like imagination pictured wonderful creatures within, and the very impossibility of forcing entrance added a thousandfold to his desire to do so.
他孩子般的想象力描绘了里面奇妙的生物，而强行进入是不可能的，这让他的渴望增加了千倍。

He could clamber about the roof and windows for hours attempting to discover means of ingress, but to the door he paid little attention, for this was apparently as solid as the walls.
他可以在屋顶和窗户上爬上几个小时，试图找到进入的方式，但他很少注意门，因为门显然和墙壁一样坚固。

It was in the next visit to the vicinity, following the adventure with old Sabor, that, as he approached the cabin, Tarzan noticed that from a distance the door appeared to be an independent part of the wall in which it was set, and for the first time it occurred to him that this might prove the means of entrance which had so long eluded him.
在与老萨博尔一起冒险之后，泰山在下次访问附近时，当他走近小屋时，泰山注意到从远处看，门似乎是它所安装的墙壁的一个独立部分，并且对于他第一次想到，这可能就是他长期以来一直未能找到的进入方法。

He was alone, as was often the case when he visited the cabin, for the apes had no love for it; the story of the thunder-stick having lost nothing in the telling during these ten years had quite surrounded the white man’s deserted abode with an atmosphere of weirdness and terror for the simians.
他独自一人，就像他参观小屋时经常遇到的情况一样，因为猿类不喜欢它。雷霆棍的故事在这十年里丝毫没有丢失，在白人的荒废住所周围笼罩着一种对猿猴来说怪异和恐怖的气氛。

The story of his own connection with the cabin had never been told him. The language of the apes had so few words that they could talk but little of what they had seen in the cabin, having no words to accurately describe either the strange people or their belongings, and so, long before Tarzan was old enough to understand, the subject had been forgotten by the tribe.
从来没有人告诉他他自己与小屋的联系。类人猿的语言中的单词非常少，以至于它们只能谈论很少的在小屋里看到的东西，没有单词可以准确地描述陌生人或他们的物品，因此，早在泰山长大到能够理解之前，这个话题已经被部落遗忘了。

Only in a dim, vague way had Kala explained to him that his father had been a strange white ape, but he did not know that Kala was not his own mother.
卡拉只是以一种朦胧、含糊的方式向他解释说，他的父亲是一只奇怪的白猿，但他并不知道卡拉不是他自己的母亲。

On this day, then, he went directly to the door and spent hours examining it and fussing with the hinges, the knob and the latch. Finally he stumbled upon the right combination, and the door swung creakingly open before his astonished eyes.
于是，这一天，他直接走到门前，花了几个小时检查门，并仔细检查铰链、把手和门闩。最后他偶然找到了正确的密码，门在他惊讶的眼前嘎吱嘎吱地打开了。

For some minutes he did not dare venture within, but finally, as his eyes became accustomed to the dim light of the interior he slowly and cautiously entered.
有几分钟他不敢冒险进去，但最后，当他的眼睛习惯了内部昏暗的光线时，他慢慢地、小心翼翼地走了进去。

In the middle of the floor lay a skeleton, every vestige of flesh gone from the bones to which still clung the mildewed and moldered remnants of what had once been clothing. Upon the bed lay a similar gruesome thing, but smaller, while in a tiny cradle near-by was a third, a wee mite of a skeleton.
地板中央躺着一具骷髅，骨头上的每一块肉都消失了，上面还粘着曾经是衣服的发霉和腐烂的残余物。床上躺着一个类似的可怕的东西，但更小，而附近的一个小摇篮里有第三个，一个小小的骷髅。

To none of these evidences of a fearful tragedy of a long dead day did little Tarzan give but passing heed. His wild jungle life had inured him to the sight of dead and dying animals, and had he known that he was looking upon the remains of his own father and mother he would have been no more greatly moved.
小泰山对这些漫长死日的可怕悲剧的证据都没有给予足够的关注。狂野的丛林生活让他习惯了看到死亡和垂死的动物，如果他知道自己看到的是自己父亲和母亲的遗骸，他就不会再受到太大的感动。

The furnishings and other contents of the room it was which riveted his attention. He examined many things minutely—strange tools and weapons, books, paper, clothing— what little had withstood the ravages of time in the humid atmosphere of the jungle coast.
房间里的家具和其他物品吸引了他的注意力。他仔细检查了许多东西——奇怪的工具和武器、书籍、纸张、衣服——这些东西在丛林海岸潮湿的空气中经受住了时间的摧残。

He opened chests and cupboards, such as did not baffle his small experience, and in these he found the contents much better preserved.
他打开了箱子和橱柜，这并没有妨碍他的小经验，他发现里面的东西保存得更好。

Among other things he found a sharp hunting knife, on the keen blade of which he immediately proceeded to cut his finger. Undaunted he continued his experiments, finding that he could hack and hew splinters of wood from the table and chairs with this new toy.
除其他物品外，他还发现了一把锋利的猎刀，他立即用锋利的刀刃割伤了自己的手指。他毫不畏惧地继续他的实验，发现他可以用这个新玩具从桌子和椅子上砍下木头碎片。

For a long time this amused him, but finally tiring he continued his explorations. In a cupboard filled with books he came across one with brightly colored pictures—it was a child’s illustrated alphabet—
这让他高兴了很长一段时间，但最后他累了，他继续探索。在装满书籍的柜子里，他发现了一本，上面有色彩鲜艳的图画——那是儿童的插图字母表——

A is for Archer
A代表弓箭手

Who shoots with a bow.
谁用弓射箭。

B is for Boy,
B代表男孩，

His first name is Joe.
他的名字叫乔。

The pictures interested him greatly.
这些照片让他非常感兴趣。

There were many apes with faces similar to his own, and further over in the book he found, under ‘M,’ some little monkeys such as he saw daily flitting through the trees of his primeval forest. But nowhere was pictured any of his own people; in all the book was none that resembled Kerchak, or Tublat, or Kala.
有很多猿猴的面孔与他相似，在书的后面，他在“M”下面发现了一些小猴子，就像他每天看到的在原始森林的树林里飞翔一样。但没有任何地方出现他自己人的照片。整本书中没有一本与克尔恰克、图布拉特或卡拉相似。

At first he tried to pick the little figures from the leaves, but he soon saw that they were not real, though he knew not what they might be, nor had he any words to describe them.
起初他试图从叶子上摘下那些小人物，但他很快就发现它们不是真的，尽管他不知道它们可能是什么，也没有任何言语来描述它们。

The boats, and trains, and cows and horses were quite meaningless to him, but not quite so baffling as the odd little figures which appeared beneath and between the colored pictures—some strange kind of bug he thought they might be, for many of them had legs though nowhere could he find one with eyes and a mouth. It was his first introduction to the letters of the alphabet, and he was over ten years old.
船、火车、牛和马对他来说毫无意义，但不像彩色图片下面和之间出现的奇怪的小人物那么令人困惑——他认为它们可能是某种奇怪的虫子，对他们中的许多人来说有腿，但他找不到有眼睛和嘴巴的人。这是他第一次接触字母表，当时他已经十多岁了。

Of course he had never before seen print, or ever had spoken with any living thing which had the remotest idea that such a thing as a written language existed, nor ever had he seen anyone reading.
当然，他以前从未见过印刷品，也从未与任何对书面语言这种存在有丝毫概念的生物交谈过，也从未见过有人读书。

So what wonder that the little boy was quite at a loss to guess the meaning of these strange figures.
难怪小男孩完全猜不出这些奇怪数字的含义。

Near the middle of the book he found his old enemy, Sabor, the lioness, and further on, coiled Histah, the snake.
在书的中间附近，他发现了他的宿敌，母狮萨博尔，以及盘绕的蛇希斯塔。

Oh, it was most engrossing! Never before in all his ten years had he enjoyed anything so much. So absorbed was he that he did not note the approaching dusk, until it was quite upon him and the figures were blurred.
哦，那是最令人着迷的！十年来，他从来没有这么享受过任何事情。他全神贯注，没有注意到黄昏即将来临，直到黄昏降临，人影变得模糊。

He put the book back in the cupboard and closed the door, for he did not wish anyone else to find and destroy his treasure, and as he went out into the gathering darkness he closed the great door of the cabin behind him as it had been before he discovered the secret of its lock, but before he left he had noticed the hunting knife lying where he had thrown it upon the floor, and this he picked up and took with him to show to his fellows.
他把书放回柜子里，关上门，因为他不想让任何人找到并毁掉他的宝藏，当他走进越来越浓的黑暗时，他关上了身后小屋的大门，就像以前一样。在他发现门锁的秘密之前，但在他离开之前，他注意到那把猎刀就放在他扔在地板上的地方，他捡起它并随身携带给他的同伴们看。

He had taken scarce a dozen steps toward the jungle when a great form rose up before him from the shadows of a low bush. At first he thought it was one of his own people but in another instant he realized that it was Bolgani, the huge gorilla.
他向丛林走了不到十几步，一个巨大的身影从低矮灌木丛的阴影中升到了他面前。起初他以为这是自己的同胞，但转眼间他意识到那是博尔加尼，一只巨大的大猩猩。

So close was he that there was no chance for flight and little Tarzan knew that he must stand and fight for his life; for these great beasts were the deadly enemies of his tribe, and neither one nor the other ever asked or gave quarter.
他离他如此之近，以至于没有逃跑的机会，小泰山知道他必须站起来为自己的生命而战；因为这些巨兽是他部落的死敌，任何一方都没有提出过宽恕。

Had Tarzan been a full-grown bull ape of the species of his tribe he would have been more than a match for the gorilla, but being only a little English boy, though enormously muscular for such, he stood no chance against his cruel antagonist. In his veins, though, flowed the blood of the best of a race of mighty fighters, and back of this was the training of his short lifetime among the fierce brutes of the jungle.
如果泰山是他部落中的一头成年牛猿，他将不仅仅是大猩猩的对手，但他只是一个英国小男孩，尽管肌肉发达，但他没有机会对抗他残酷的对手。然而，他的血管里流淌着强大战士种族中最优秀的血液，这背后是他短暂的一生在丛林凶猛的野兽中接受的训练。

He knew no fear, as we know it; his little heart beat the faster but from the excitement and exhilaration of adventure. Had the opportunity presented itself he would have escaped, but solely because his judgment told him he was no match for the great thing which confronted him. And since reason showed him that successful flight was impossible he met the gorilla squarely and bravely without a tremor of a single muscle, or any sign of panic.
正如我们所知，他不知道恐惧；他的小心脏跳得更快，但这是因为冒险的兴奋和兴奋。如果有机会，他就会逃跑，但这只是因为他的判断告诉他，他不是他所面临的伟大事情的对手。由于理智告诉他，成功的逃跑是不可能的，所以他勇敢地正面迎接了大猩猩，没有一丝肌肉的颤抖，也没有任何惊慌的迹象。

In fact he met the brute midway in its charge, striking its huge body with his closed fists and as futilely as he had been a fly attacking an elephant. But in one hand he still clutched the knife he had found in the cabin of his father, and as the brute, striking and biting, closed upon him the boy accidentally turned the point toward the hairy breast. As the knife sank deep into its body the gorilla shrieked in pain and rage.
事实上，他在中途遇到了这头野兽的冲锋，他用紧握的拳头击打它巨大的身体，徒劳无功，就像苍蝇攻击大象一样。但他的一只手仍然握着他在父亲小屋里找到的那​​把刀，当这头野兽向他攻击和撕咬时，男孩不小心把刀尖转向了毛茸茸的乳房。当刀子深深地刺入它的身体时，大猩猩发出痛苦和愤怒的尖叫声。

But the boy had learned in that brief second a use for his sharp and shining toy, so that, as the tearing, striking beast dragged him to earth he plunged the blade repeatedly and to the hilt into its breast.
但在那短短的一秒钟里，男孩已经学会了他锋利而闪亮的玩具的用途，因此，当那只撕裂的、猛烈的野兽把他拖到地上时，他不断地将刀片刺入它的胸膛。

The gorilla, fighting after the manner of its kind, struck terrific blows with its open hand, and tore the flesh at the boy’s throat and chest with its mighty tusks.
这只大猩猩按照同类的方式进行战斗，张开的手给予了可怕的打击，并用强大的獠牙撕开了男孩喉咙和胸部的肉。

For a moment they rolled upon the ground in the fierce frenzy of combat. More and more weakly the torn and bleeding arm struck home with the long sharp blade, then the little figure stiffened with a spasmodic jerk, and Tarzan, the young Lord Greystoke, rolled unconscious upon the dead and decaying vegetation which carpeted his jungle home.
一时之间，他们在激烈的战斗中打滚在地上。被撕裂和流血的手臂越来越虚弱地被长长的锋利刀片击中，然后那个小小的身影因痉挛性的抽搐而僵硬，泰山，年轻的格雷斯托克勋爵，在覆盖他丛林家园的死亡和腐烂的植被上滚动，失去了知觉。

A mile back in the forest the tribe had heard the fierce challenge of the gorilla, and, as was his custom when any danger threatened, Kerchak called his people together, partly for mutual protection against a common enemy, since this gorilla might be but one of a party of several, and also to see that all members of the tribe were accounted for.
在森林深处一英里处，部落听到了大猩猩的激烈挑战，按照他在任何危险威胁时的惯例，克查克将他的人民召集在一起，部分原因是为了共同保护自己免受共同的敌人的侵害，因为这只大猩猩可能只是一只几个人组成的队伍，还要查看部落所有成员的情况。

It was soon discovered that Tarzan was missing, and Tublat was strongly opposed to sending assistance. Kerchak himself had no liking for the strange little waif, so he listened to Tublat, and, finally, with a shrug of his shoulders, turned back to the pile of leaves on which he had made his bed.
很快发现泰山失踪了，图布拉特强烈反对派遣援助。克尔恰克本人并不喜欢这个奇怪的小流浪儿，所以他听了图布拉特的话，最后耸了耸肩，转身回到他铺床的那堆树叶上。

But Kala was of a different mind; in fact, she had not waited but to learn that Tarzan was absent ere she was fairly flying through the matted branches toward the point from which the cries of the gorilla were still plainly audible.
但卡拉却有不同的想法。事实上，还没等她飞过缠结的树枝，飞向仍清晰可闻大猩猩叫声的地方，她就得知泰山不在了。

Darkness had now fallen, and an early moon was sending its faint light to cast strange, grotesque shadows among the dense foliage of the forest.
夜色已经降临，一轮初月发出微弱的光芒，在茂密的树林中投下奇异而怪诞的影子。

Here and there the brilliant rays penetrated to earth, but for the most part they only served to accentuate the Stygian blackness of the jungle’s depths.
灿烂的光芒时不时地射入大地，但在大多数情况下，它们只是凸显了丛林深处的斯泰吉亚黑暗。

Like some huge phantom, Kala swung noiselessly from tree to tree; now running nimbly along a great branch, now swinging through space at the end of another, only to grasp that of a farther tree in her rapid progress toward the scene of the tragedy her knowledge of jungle life told her was being enacted a short distance before her.
卡拉就像一个巨大的幽灵，悄无声息地从一棵树荡到另一棵树。她时而沿着一根大树枝敏捷地奔跑，时而在另一根树枝末端的空间中荡来荡去，只是为了抓住一棵更远的树，在她快速走向悲剧现场的过程中，她对丛林生活的了解告诉她，悲剧发生在不远处。她。

The cries of the gorilla proclaimed that it was in mortal combat with some other denizen of the fierce wood. Suddenly these cries ceased, and the silence of death reigned throughout the jungle.
大猩猩的叫声表明它正在与凶猛森林中的其他居民进行殊死搏斗。突然，哭声停止了，死亡的寂静笼罩了整个丛林。

Kala could not understand, for the voice of Bolgani had at last been raised in the agony of suffering and death, but no sound had come to her by which she possibly could determine the nature of his antagonist.
卡拉无法理解，因为博尔加尼的声音终于在痛苦和死亡的痛苦中响起，但她没有听到任何声音来确定他的对手的本质。

That her little Tarzan could destroy a great bull gorilla she knew to be improbable, and so, as she neared the spot from which the sounds of the struggle had come, she moved more warily and at last slowly and with extreme caution she traversed the lowest branches, peering eagerly into the moonsplashed blackness for a sign of the combatants.
她的小泰山可以摧毁一只巨大的公牛大猩猩，她知道这是不可能的，因此，当她接近发出打斗声音的地方时，她更加谨慎地移动，最后缓慢而极其谨慎地穿过了最低处。树枝急切地凝视着月光洒满的黑暗，寻找战斗者的踪迹。

Presently she came upon them, lying in a little open space full under the brilliant light of the moon—little Tarzan’s torn and bloody form, and beside it a great bull gorilla, stone dead.
不久，她就来到了他们面前，他们躺在一片小小的空地里，月光灿烂——小泰山被撕破了，血淋淋的，旁边还有一只巨大的公牛大猩猩，已经死了。

With a low cry Kala rushed to Tarzan’s side, and gathering the poor, blood-covered body to her breast, listened for a sign of life. Faintly she heard it—the weak beating of the little heart.
卡拉低声叫喊着冲到泰山身边，将这具可怜的、沾满鲜血的尸体抱到胸前，倾听着生命的迹象。她隐约听到了——那颗小心脏微弱的跳动声。

Tenderly she bore him back through the inky jungle to where the tribe lay, and for many days and nights she sat guard beside him, bringing him food and water, and brushing the flies and other insects from his cruel wounds.
她温柔地带着他穿过漆黑的丛林，回到部落所在的地方，许多个日日夜夜，她守在他身边，给他带来食物和水，并为他的残酷伤口上清除苍蝇和其他昆虫。

Of medicine or surgery the poor thing knew nothing. She could but lick the wounds, and thus she kept them cleansed, that healing nature might the more quickly do her work.
这个可怜的家伙对医学或外科手术一无所知。她只能舔伤口，这样她就能保持伤口的清洁，这样自然的治愈作用就能更快地发挥作用。

At first Tarzan would eat nothing, but rolled and tossed in a wild delirium of fever. All he craved was water, and this she brought him in the only way she could, bearing it in her own mouth.
起初，泰山什么也不吃，但在疯狂的高烧中翻滚翻滚。他所渴望的只是水，而她用她唯一能做的方式给他带来了水，用她自己的嘴含着它。

No human mother could have shown more unselfish and sacrificing devotion than did this poor, wild brute for the little orphaned waif whom fate had thrown into her keeping.
没有一个人类母亲能比这个可怜的野蛮人对命运交给她照顾的小孤儿表现出更无私和牺牲的奉献精神。

At last the fever abated and the boy commenced to mend. No word of complaint passed his tight set lips, though the pain of his wounds was excruciating.
最后，烧退了，男孩也开始好转。尽管伤口疼痛难忍，但他紧闭的嘴唇里却没有说出任何抱怨的话。

A portion of his chest was laid bare to the ribs, three of which had been broken by the mighty blows of the gorilla. One arm was nearly severed by the giant fangs, and a great piece had been torn from his neck, exposing his jugular vein, which the cruel jaws had missed but by a miracle.
他的胸部有一部分裸露到肋骨，其中三根肋骨被大猩猩的猛烈打击打断了。一只手臂几乎被巨大的尖牙咬断，脖子上撕下了一大块，暴露了他的颈静脉，而残酷的下巴却奇迹般地错过了这一点。

With the stoicism of the brutes who had raised him he endured his suffering quietly, preferring to crawl away from the others and lie huddled in some clump of tall grasses rather than to show his misery before their eyes.
凭借抚养他长大的野蛮人的坚忍，他静静地忍受着痛苦，宁愿爬离其他人，蜷缩在高高的草丛中，也不愿在他们眼前展示他的痛苦。

Kala, alone, he was glad to have with him, but now that he was better she was gone longer at a time, in search of food; for the devoted animal had scarcely eaten enough to support her own life while Tarzan had been so low, and was in consequence, reduced to a mere shadow of her former self.
卡拉独自一人，他很高兴能和他在一起，但现在他好多了，她一次又一次离开更长的时间，去寻找食物；因为这只忠诚的动物几乎没有吃足够的食物来维持自己的生命，而泰山却如此低落，因此，她的身体只剩下了以前的影子。

Chapter 7
第7章


The Light of Knowledge
知识之光

After what seemed an eternity to the little sufferer he was able to walk once more, and from then on his recovery was so rapid that in another month he was as strong and active as ever.
在这个小病人看来似乎过了很久之后，他又能够走路了，从那时起，他的康复速度如此之快，以至于在接下来的一个月里，他又像以前一样强壮和活跃。

During his convalescence he had gone over in his mind many times the battle with the gorilla, and his first thought was to recover the wonderful little weapon which had transformed him from a hopelessly outclassed weakling to the superior of the mighty terror of the jungle.
在康复期间，他在脑海中多次回忆起与大猩猩的战斗，他的第一个念头就是找回这把奇妙的小武器，正是这件武器使他从一个无可救药的弱者变成了丛林中强大恐怖的强者。

Also, he was anxious to return to the cabin and continue his investigations of its wondrous contents.
同时，他也迫切地想回到小屋，继续调查里面的奇妙内容。

So, early one morning, he set forth alone upon his quest. After a little search he located the clean-picked bones of his late adversary, and close by, partly buried beneath the fallen leaves, he found the knife, now red with rust from its exposure to the dampness of the ground and from the dried blood of the gorilla.
于是，一天一早，他就独自出发去寻找他的旅程。经过一番搜寻，他找到了已故对手的干净骨头，在附近，部分埋在落叶下，他发现了那把刀，由于暴露在潮湿的地面和干涸的血迹中，现在已经锈红了。大猩猩的。

He did not like the change in its former bright and gleaming surface; but it was still a formidable weapon, and one which he meant to use to advantage whenever the opportunity presented itself. He had in mind that no more would he run from the wanton attacks of old Tublat.
他不喜欢它以前明亮、闪闪发光的表面的变化。但这仍然是一件令人生畏的武器，只要有机会，他就打算利用它。他心里想，自己再也不会逃避老图布拉特的肆意攻击了。

In another moment he was at the cabin, and after a short time had again thrown the latch and entered. His first concern was to learn the mechanism of the lock, and this he did by examining it closely while the door was open, so that he could learn precisely what caused it to hold the door, and by what means it released at his touch.
又过了一会儿，他就到了小屋，过了一会儿，他又拉开了门闩，进去了。他首先关心的是了解锁的机制，为此，他在门打开时仔细检查它，这样他就可以准确地了解是什么导致门锁住了门，以及通过什么方式在他触摸时门锁松开了。

He found that he could close and lock the door from within, and this he did so that there would be no chance of his being molested while at his investigation.
他发现他可以从里面关上并锁上门，这样他就不会在调查过程中受到骚扰。

He commenced a systematic search of the cabin; but his attention was soon riveted by the books which seemed to exert a strange and powerful influence over him, so that he could scarce attend to aught else for the lure of the wondrous puzzle which their purpose presented to him.
他开始对船舱进行系统的搜查；但他的注意力很快就被这些书所吸引，这些书似乎对他产生了一种奇怪而强大的影响，因此他几乎无法关注其他事情，因为它们的目的向他提出了奇妙的谜题。

Among the other books were a primer, some child’s readers, numerous picture books, and a great dictionary. All of these he examined, but the pictures caught his fancy most, though the strange little bugs which covered the pages where there were no pictures excited his wonder and deepest thought.
其他书籍包括入门书、一些儿童读物、大量图画书和一本很棒的词典。他检查了所有这些，但最吸引他的是图片，尽管没有图片的页面上覆盖着奇怪的小虫子，却激发了他的惊奇和最深的思考。

Squatting upon his haunches on the table top in the cabin his father had built—his smooth, brown, naked little body bent over the book which rested in his strong slender hands, and his great shock of long, black hair falling about his wellshaped head and bright, intelligent eyes—Tarzan of the apes, little primitive man, presented a picture filled, at once, with pathos and with promise—an allegorical figure of the primordial groping through the black night of ignorance toward the light of learning.
他蹲在他父亲建造的小屋的桌子上——他那光滑、棕色、赤裸的小身体弯着身子，伏在他那双强壮而纤细的手中的书上，一头乌黑的长发披散在他形状优美的头上。明亮而聪明的眼睛——猿人泰山，原始的小人，呈现出一幅充满悲情和希望的画面——一个原始人在无知的黑夜中摸索走向学习之光的寓言人物。

His little face was tense in study, for he had partially grasped, in a hazy, nebulous way, the rudiments of a thought which was destined to prove the key and the solution to the puzzling problem of the strange little bugs.
他的小脸在学习中紧张，因为他已经以一种朦胧、模糊的方式部分掌握了一个思想的雏形，这个思想注定要证明奇怪的小虫子这个令人费解的问题的关键和解决办法。

In his hands was a primer opened at a picture of a little ape similar to himself, but covered, except for hands and face, with strange, colored fur, for such he thought the jacket and trousers to be. Beneath the picture were three little bugs—
他手里拿着一本底漆，上面有一张与他相似的小猿的照片，但除了手和脸之外，都覆盖着奇怪的彩色毛皮，他认为夹克和裤子就是这样的。照片下面是三只小虫子——

BOY.
男生。

And now he had discovered in the text upon the page that these three were repeated many times in the same sequence.
而现在他发现，页面上的文字中，这三者以同样的顺序重复了很多次。

Another fact he learned—that there were comparatively few individual bugs; but these were repeated many times, occasionally alone, but more often in company with others.
他了解到的另一个事实是，单独的错误相对较少；但这些重复了很多次，有时是独自一人，但更多时候是与其他人一起。

Slowly he turned the pages, scanning the pictures and the text for a repetition of the combination B-O-Y. Presently he found it beneath a picture of another little ape and a strange animal which went upon four legs like the jackal and resembled him not a little. Beneath this picture the bugs appeared as:
他慢慢地翻页，浏览图片和文字，寻找重复的 B-O-Y 组合。不久，他在另一张小猿的照片下面发现了它，还有一种奇怪的动物，这种动物像豺狼一样有四足，与他有一点相似。在此图片下方，错误显示为：

A BOY AND A DOG
男孩和狗

There they were, the three little bugs which always accompanied the little ape.
它们就在那里，一直伴随着小猿的三只小虫子。

And so he progressed very, very slowly, for it was a hard and laborious task which he had set himself without knowing it—a task which might seem to you or me impossible—learning to read without having the slightest knowledge of letters or written language, or the faintest idea that such things existed.
因此，他进步得非常非常缓慢，因为这是一项艰巨而费力的任务，他在不知情的情况下为自己设定了这一任务——这项任务在你我看来似乎是不可能的——在没有丝毫字母或书面语言知识的情况下学习阅读，或者有这样的事情存在的最微弱的想法。

He did not accomplish it in a day, or in a week, or in a month, or in a year; but slowly, very slowly, he learned after he had grasped the possibilities which lay in those little bugs, so that by the time he was fifteen he knew the various combinations of letters which stood for every pictured figure in the little primer and in one or two of the picture books.
他不是在一天、一周、一个月或一年内完成的。但慢慢地，非常缓慢地，当他掌握了这些小虫子中蕴含的可能性后，他就学会了，所以到了十五岁的时候，他就知道了代表小入门书和一个或多个图中的每个图形的字母的各种组合。其中两本图画书。

Of the meaning and use of the articles and conjunctions, verbs and adverbs and pronouns he had but the faintest conception.
对于冠词、连词、动词、副词和代词的意义和用法，他只有最模糊的概念。

One day when he was about twelve he found a number of lead pencils in a hitherto undiscovered drawer beneath the table, and in scratching upon the table top with one of them he was delighted to discover the black line it left behind it.
有一天，当他大约十二岁的时候，他在桌子下面一个迄今为止未被发现的抽屉里发现了一些铅笔，当他用其中一支在桌面上刮擦时，他很高兴地发现了铅笔留下的黑线。

He worked so assiduously with this new toy that the table top was soon a mass of scrawly loops and irregular lines and his pencil-point worn down to the wood. Then he took another pencil, but this time he had a definite object in view.
他如此孜孜不倦地研究这个新玩具，以至于桌面很快就变成了一堆潦草的环和不规则的线条，他的铅笔尖也磨损到了木头。然后他又拿了一支铅笔，但这一次他有一个明确的目标。

He would attempt to reproduce some of the little bugs that scrambled over the pages of his books.
他会尝试重现一些在他的书页上爬行的小虫子。

It was a difficult task, for he held the pencil as one would grasp the hilt of a dagger, which does not add greatly to ease in writing or to the legibility of the results.
这是一项艰巨的任务，因为他握着铅笔就像握着匕首柄一样，这并没有大大增加书写的便利性或结果的易读性。

But he persevered for months, at such times as he was able to come to the cabin, until at last by repeated experimenting he found a position in which to hold the pencil that best permitted him to guide and control it, so that at last he could roughly reproduce any of the little bugs.
但他坚持了几个月，直到他能够来到小屋，直到最后通过反复试验，他找到了一个最能让他引导和控制铅笔的握笔姿势，这样他终于可以粗略地重现任何小错误。

Thus he made a beginning of writing.
就这样，他开始了写作。

Copying the bugs taught him another thing—their number; and though he could not count as we understand it, yet he had an idea of quantity, the base of his calculations being the number of fingers upon one of his hands.
复制这些虫子让他学到了另一件事——虫子的数量；尽管他不能像我们所理解的那样进行计数，但他对数量有一个概念，他计算的基础是他一只手上的手指数量。

His search through the various books convinced him that he had discovered all the different kinds of bugs most often repeated in combination, and these he arranged in proper order with great ease because of the frequency with which he had perused the fascinating alphabet picture book.
他对各种书籍的搜索使他相信，他已经发现了最常组合重复的所有不同种类的错误，并且由于他经常阅读这本迷人的字母图画书，所以他很容易地将这些错误按正确的顺序排列。

His education progressed; but his greatest finds were in the inexhaustible storehouse of the huge illustrated dictionary, for he learned more through the medium of pictures than text, even after he had grasped the significance of the bugs.
他的教育进步了。但他最伟大的发现是在巨大的插图词典的取之不竭的宝库中，因为即使在他掌握了虫子的重要性之后，他通过图片媒介学到的东西比文字更多。

When he discovered the arrangement of words in alphabetical order he delighted in searching for and finding the combinations with which he was familiar, and the words which followed them, their definitions, led him still further into the mazes of erudition.
当他发现单词按字母顺序排列时，他很高兴地寻找和发现他熟悉的组合，而这些组合后面的单词及其定义，使他进一步进入博学的迷宫。

By the time he was seventeen he had learned to read the simple, child’s primer and had fully realized the true and wonderful purpose of the little bugs.
到了十七岁的时候，他已经学会了阅读简单的儿童读物，并充分认识到小虫子的真实而奇妙的目的。

No longer did he feel shame for his hairless body or his human features, for now his reason told him that he was of a different race from his wild and hairy companions. He was a M-A-N, they were A-P-E-S, and the little apes which scurried through the forest top were M-O-N-K-E-Y-S. He knew, too, that old Sabor was a L-I-O-N-E-S-S, and Histah a S-N-A-K-E, and Tantor an E-L-E-P-H-A-N-T. And so he learned to read. From then on his progress was rapid. With the help of the great dictionary and the active intelligence of a healthy mind endowed by inheritance with more than ordinary reasoning powers he shrewdly guessed at much which he could not really understand, and more often than not his guesses were close to the mark of truth.
他不再为自己无毛的身体或人类的特征感到羞耻，因为现在他的理智告诉他，他与他那些野生的、毛茸茸的同伴是不同的种族。他是M-A-N，他们是A-P-E-S，而那些在森林顶部匆匆奔跑的小猿是M-O-N-K-E-Y-S。他也知道，老萨博尔是L-I-O-N-E-S-S，希斯塔是S-N-A-K-E，坦托是E-L-E-P-H-A-N-T。于是他学会了读书。从那时起，他的进步就很快了。借助伟大的字典和遗传赋予的健康头脑的活跃智力，他具有超乎寻常的推理能力，他精明地猜测了许多他无法真正理解的事情，而且他的猜测往往接近事实。 。

There were many breaks in his education, caused by the migratory habits of his tribe, but even when removed from his books his active brain continued to search out the mysteries of his fascinating avocation.
由于部落的迁徙习惯，他的教育经历了许多中断，但即使离开了书本，他活跃的大脑仍然继续寻找他迷人的爱好的奥秘。

Pieces of bark and flat leaves and even smooth stretches of bare earth provided him with copy books whereon to scratch with the point of his hunting knife the lessons he was learning.
片片树皮、扁平的树叶，甚至光滑的裸露土地，都为他提供了抄本，让他可以用猎刀的刀尖抄写他正在学习的课程。

Nor did he neglect the sterner duties of life while following the bent of his inclination toward the solving of the mystery of his library.
当他随心所欲地解开图书馆之谜时，他也没有忽视生活中更严峻的职责。

He practiced with his rope and played with his sharp knife, which he had learned to keep keen by whetting upon flat stones.
他练习使用绳子，玩弄锋利的小刀，他学会了通过磨平石头来保持锋利。

The tribe had grown larger since Tarzan had come among them, for under the leadership of Kerchak they had been able to frighten the other tribes from their part of the jungle so that they had plenty to eat and little or no loss from predatory incursions of neighbors.
自从泰山来到他们中间后，这个部落变得越来越大，因为在克尔恰克的领导下，他们能够将其他部落从他们所在的丛林地区吓走，这样他们就有了充足的食物，并且在邻居的掠夺性入侵中几乎没有损失。 。

Hence the younger males as they became adult found it more comfortable to take mates from their own tribe, or if they captured one of another tribe to bring her back to Kerchak’s band and live in amity with him rather than attempt to set up new establishments of their own, or fight with the redoubtable Kerchak for supremacy at home.
因此，年轻的雄性在成年后发现，从自己的部落中获取配偶会更舒服，或者如果他们捕获另一个部落的一个，将她带回克尔恰克的部落并与他和睦相处，而不是试图建立新的部落他们自己的，或者与令人敬畏的克尔恰克争夺国内霸权。

Occasionally one more ferocious than his fellows would attempt this latter alternative, but none had come yet who could wrest the palm of victory from the fierce and brutal ape.
偶尔，比他的同伴更凶猛的人会尝试后一种选择，但还没有人能从凶猛而残暴的猿猴手中夺取胜利的手掌。

Tarzan held a peculiar position in the tribe. They seemed to consider him one of them and yet in some way different. The older males either ignored him entirely or else hated him so vindictively that but for his wondrous agility and speed and the fierce protection of the huge Kala he would have been dispatched at an early age.
泰山在部落中有着特殊的地位。他们似乎认为他是他们中的一员，但又在某种程度上有所不同。年长的雄性要么完全忽视他，要么对他怀恨在心，如果没有他惊人的敏捷和速度以及巨大卡拉的猛烈保护，他可能会在很小的时候就被消灭了。

Tublat was his most consistent enemy, but it was through Tublat that, when he was about thirteen, the persecution of his enemies suddenly ceased and he was left severely alone, except on the occasions when one of them ran amuck in the throes of one of those strange, wild fits of insane rage which attacks the males of many of the fiercer animals of the jungle. Then none was safe.
图布拉特是他最坚定的敌人，但正是通过图布拉特，当他大约十三岁的时候，对他的敌人的迫害突然停止了，他只剩下严重的孤独，除非其中一个人在其中一个人的痛苦中横行无忌。那些奇怪的、疯狂的疯狂愤怒发作，攻击丛林中许多凶猛动物的雄性。那么没有人是安全的。

On the day that Tarzan established his right to respect, the tribe was gathered about a small natural amphitheater which the jungle had left free from its entangling vines and creepers in a hollow among some low hills.
在泰山确立其尊重权利的那一天，部落聚集在一个小型天然圆形剧场周围，丛林将其从低矮山丘之间的洼地中的缠绕的藤蔓和攀缘植物中解放出来。

The open space was almost circular in shape. Upon every hand rose the mighty giants of the untouched forest, with the matted undergrowth banked so closely between the huge trunks that the only opening into the little, level arena was through the upper branches of the trees.
空地的形状几乎是圆形的。每只手上都矗立着未受破坏的森林中的巨大巨人，丛生的灌木丛在巨大的树干之间紧密地堆积起来，通往这个小而平坦的竞技场的唯一开口是通过树木的上部树枝。

Here, safe from interruption, the tribe often gathered. In the center of the amphitheater was one of those strange earthen drums which the anthropoids build for the queer rites the sounds of which men have heard in the fastnesses of the jungle, but which none has ever witnessed.
部落经常聚集在这里，不受干扰。圆形剧场的中央有一架奇怪的土鼓，是类人猿为奇怪的仪式建造的，人们在丛林的要塞中听到过这种声音，但从未见过。

Many travelers have seen the drums of the great apes, and some have heard the sounds of their beating and the noise of the wild, weird revelry of these first lords of the jungle, but Tarzan, Lord Greystoke, is, doubtless, the only human being who ever joined in the fierce, mad, intoxicating revel of the Dum-Dum.
许多旅行者都见过类人猿的鼓声，有些人听到过它们敲打的声音和这些丛林第一领主的荒野、怪异的狂欢声，但毫无疑问，泰山格雷斯托克勋爵是唯一的人类。那些曾经参与过激烈、疯狂、令人陶醉的达姆达姆狂欢的人。

From this primitive function has arisen, unquestionably, all the forms and ceremonials of modern church and state, for through all the countless ages, back beyond the uttermost ramparts of a dawning humanity our fierce, hairy forebears danced out the rites of the Dum-Dum to the sound of their earthen drums, beneath the bright light of a tropical moon in the depth of a mighty jungle which stands unchanged today as it stood on that long forgotten night in the dim, unthinkable vistas of the long dead past when our first shaggy ancestor swung from a swaying bough and dropped lightly upon the soft turf of the first meeting place.
毫无疑问，现代教会和国家的所有形式和仪式都是从这种原始功能中产生的，因为在无数的时代里，早在人类黎明的最壁垒之外，我们凶猛、毛茸茸的祖先就跳出了达姆达姆的仪式。伴随着他们的土鼓声，在热带月亮的明亮光芒下，在一片巨大的丛林深处，今天的丛林依然保持着不变，就像它站在那个早已被遗忘的夜晚，在遥远的过去的昏暗、难以想象的远景中，当我们第一次毛茸茸的时候祖先从一根摇曳的树枝上荡下来，轻轻地落在第一个见面地点的柔软的草坪上。

On the day that Tarzan won his emancipation from the persecution that had followed him remorselessly for twelve of his thirteen years of life, the tribe, now a full hundred strong, trooped silently through the lower terrace of the jungle trees and dropped noiselessly upon the floor of the amphitheater.
在泰山从迫害中获得解放的那一天，这个迫害已经无情地伴随了他十三年的十二年，这个部落现在已经有一百人了，默默地排着队穿过丛林树林的低层，无声无息地倒在地板上。露天剧场的。

The rites of the Dum-Dum marked important events in the life of the tribe—a victory, the capture of a prisoner, the killing of some large fierce denizen of the jungle, the death or accession of a king, and were conducted with set ceremonialism.
达姆达姆仪式标志着部落生活中的重要事件——一场胜利、俘获一名囚犯、杀死丛林中一些凶猛的大型居民、国王的死亡或即位，并按规定进行。仪式主义。

Today it was the killing of a giant ape, a member of another tribe, and as the people of Kerchak entered the arena two mighty bulls were seen bearing the body of the vanquished between them.
今天，这是对另一部落成员的巨猿的杀戮，当克尔恰克人进入竞技场时，可以看到两只强大的公牛在它们中间驮着被征服者的尸体。

They laid their burden before the earthen drum and then squatted there beside it as guards, while the other members of the community curled themselves in grassy nooks to sleep until the rising moon should give the signal for the commencement of their savage orgy.
他们把担子放在土鼓前，然后蹲在土鼓旁边充当卫兵，而社区的其他成员则蜷缩在草丛的角落里睡觉，直到升起的月亮发出开始野蛮狂欢的信号。

For hours absolute quiet reigned in the little clearing, except as it was broken by the discordant notes of brilliantly feathered parrots, or the screeching and twittering of the thousand jungle birds flitting ceaselessly amongst the vivid orchids and flamboyant blossoms which festooned the myriad, moss-covered branches of the forest kings.
几个小时里，这片小空地里一片绝对的安静，只有羽毛绚丽的鹦鹉发出不和谐的声音，或者是成千上万只丛林鸟儿的尖叫声和叽叽喳喳声，它们在鲜艳的兰花和绚丽的花朵间不停地飞翔，这些兰花和花朵装饰着无数的苔藓——覆盖了森林之王的树枝。

At length as darkness settled upon the jungle the apes commenced to bestir themselves, and soon they formed a great circle about the earthen drum. The females and young squatted in a thin line at the outer periphery of the circle, while just in front of them ranged the adult males. Before the drum sat three old females, each armed with a knotted branch fifteen or eighteen inches in length.
最后，当黑暗笼罩丛林时，猩猩们开始骚动起来，很快它们就围着土鼓围成一个大圈。雌性和幼崽在圆圈的外围蹲成一排，而在它们的前面排列着成年雄性。鼓前坐着三位老妇人，每人手持一根十五或十八英寸长的打结树枝。

Slowly and softly they began tapping upon the resounding surface of the drum as the first faint rays of the ascending moon silvered the encircling tree tops.
当升起的月亮第一缕微弱的光芒照亮周围的树顶时，他们开始慢慢地、轻柔地敲击鼓的表面。

As the light in the amphitheater increased the females augmented the frequency and force of their blows until presently a wild, rhythmic din pervaded the great jungle for miles in every direction. Huge, fierce brutes stopped in their hunting, with up-pricked ears and raised heads, to listen to the dull booming that betokened the Dum-Dum of the apes.
随着圆形剧场内的光线增强，雌性也增加了攻击的频率和力度，直到不久之后，狂野而有节奏的喧闹声弥漫在大丛林中，向四面八方绵延数英里。巨大而凶猛的野兽停止了狩猎，竖起耳朵，抬起头，聆听猿猴发出的沉闷的轰鸣声。

Occasionally one would raise his shrill scream or thunderous roar in answering challenge to the savage din of the anthropoids, but none came near to investigate or attack, for the great apes, assembled in all the power of their numbers, filled the breasts of their jungle neighbors with deep respect.
偶尔有人会发出尖锐的尖叫或雷鸣般的咆哮，以回应类人猿野蛮喧嚣的挑战，但没有人靠近调查或攻击，因为巨猿聚集在一起，充满了丛林的胸膛。邻居们深表敬意。

As the din of the drum rose to almost deafening volume Kerchak sprang into the open space between the squatting males and the drummers.
当鼓声达到几乎震耳欲聋的音量时，克查克跳进了蹲着的男性和鼓手之间的空地。

Standing erect he threw his head far back and looking full into the eye of the rising moon he beat upon his breast with his great hairy paws and emitted his fearful roaring shriek.
他笔直地站着，把头向后仰去，凝视着升起的月亮的眼睛，用毛茸茸的大爪子拍打着自己的胸口，发出可怕的咆哮尖叫声。

One—twice—thrice that terrifying cry rang out across the teeming solitude of that unspeakably quick, yet unthinkably dead, world.
一次——两次——三次，那可怕的叫喊声响彻在这个快得难以形容、死气沉沉的世界里。

Then, crouching, Kerchak slunk noiselessly around the open circle, veering far away from the dead body lying before the altar-drum, but, as he passed, keeping his little, fierce, wicked, red eyes upon the corpse.
然后，克查克蹲下，悄无声息地绕着空旷的圆圈潜行，远离祭坛鼓前的尸体，但当他经过时，他那双凶恶的、邪恶的、红色的小眼睛一直盯着尸体。

Another male then sprang into the arena, and, repeating the horrid cries of his king, followed stealthily in his wake. Another and another followed in quick succession until the jungle reverberated with the now almost ceaseless notes of their bloodthirsty screams.
然后另一只雄性跳进了竞技场，重复着他国王的可怕叫声，悄悄地跟在他身后。一个又一个接连不断，直到丛林中回荡着他们几乎不间断的嗜血尖叫声。

It was the challenge and the hunt.
这是挑战和狩猎。

When all the adult males had joined in the thin line of circling dancers the attack commenced.
当所有成年雄性都加入到绕圈舞者的细长队伍中时，攻击就开始了。

Kerchak, seizing a huge club from the pile which lay at hand for the purpose, rushed furiously upon the dead ape, dealing the corpse a terrific blow, at the same time emitting the growls and snarls of combat. The din of the drum was now increased, as well as the frequency of the blows, and the warriors, as each approached the victim of the hunt and delivered his bludgeon blow, joined in the mad whirl of the Death Dance.
克尔查克从手边的一堆大棍子中抓起一根巨大的棍棒，猛烈地冲向死去的猿猴，给尸体带来了可怕的打击，同时发出战斗的咆哮和咆哮。现在鼓声越来越大，打击的频率也越来越高，当每个战士接近狩猎的受害者并发出棍棒时，他们都加入了死亡之舞的疯狂旋转。

Tarzan was one of the wild, leaping horde. His brown, sweat-streaked, muscular body, glistening in the moonlight, shone supple and graceful among the uncouth, awkward, hairy brutes about him.
泰山是狂野、跳跃的部落之一。他棕色的、汗流浃背、肌肉发达的身体在月光下闪闪发光，在周围粗鲁、笨拙、毛茸茸的野兽中显得柔软而优雅。

None was more stealthy in the mimic hunt, none more ferocious than he in the wild ferocity of the attack, none who leaped so high into the air in the Dance of Death.
在模仿狩猎中，没有人比他更隐秘，在攻击的狂暴中，没有人比他更凶猛，在死亡之舞中，没有人比他跳得更高。

As the noise and rapidity of the drumbeats increased the dancers apparently became intoxicated with the wild rhythm and the savage yells. Their leaps and bounds increased, their bared fangs dripped saliva, and their lips and breasts were flecked with foam.
随着鼓点的噪音和速度的增加，舞者们显然已经陶醉在狂野的节奏和野蛮的叫喊中。它们的跳跃力越来越大，裸露的獠牙滴着口水，嘴唇和胸部布满了泡沫。

For half an hour the weird dance went on, until, at a sign from Kerchak, the noise of the drums ceased, the female drummers scampering hurriedly through the line of dancers toward the outer rim of squatting spectators. Then, as one, the males rushed headlong upon the thing which their terrific blows had reduced to a mass of hairy pulp.
这种怪异的舞蹈持续了半个小时，直到随着克尔恰克的示意，鼓声停止了，女鼓手们匆匆穿过舞者队伍，奔向蹲着的观众的外缘。然后，雄性们一头扎进了那个被他们猛烈一击打成一团毛茸茸的肉浆的东西上。

Flesh seldom came to their jaws in satisfying quantities, so a fit finale to their wild revel was a taste of fresh killed meat, and it was to the purpose of devouring their late enemy that they now turned their attention.
鲜有足够数量的肉送到他们的嘴里，所以他们疯狂狂欢的最后结局就是品尝新鲜的杀肉，而他们现在把注意力转向了吞噬他们已故敌人的目的。

Great fangs sunk into the carcass tearing away huge hunks, the mightiest of the apes obtaining the choicest morsels, while the weaker circled the outer edge of the fighting, snarling pack awaiting their chance to dodge in and snatch a dropped tidbit or filch a remaining bone before all was gone.
巨大的獠牙深入尸体，撕裂巨大的块头，最强大的猿类获得了最好的食物，而较弱的猿类则在战斗的外缘盘旋，咆哮的狼群等待机会闪避，抢走掉落的食物或偷取剩余的骨头在一切消失之前。

Tarzan, more than the apes, craved and needed flesh. Descended from a race of meat eaters, never in his life, he thought, had he once satisfied his appetite for animal food; and so now his agile little body wormed its way far into the mass of struggling, rending apes in an endeavor to obtain a share which his strength would have been unequal to the task of winning for him.
泰山比猿类更渴望和需要肉。他出身于肉食者的后裔，他想，他一生中从未满足过对动物性食物的胃口。现在，他敏捷的小身躯慢慢地钻进了一群挣扎着、撕裂着的猿猴中，试图获得一份，而他的力量是无法胜任为他赢得的任务的。

At his side hung the hunting knife of his unknown father in a sheath self-fashioned in copy of one he had seen among the pictures of his treasure-books.
他身边挂着一把他不知名的父亲的猎刀，刀鞘是按照他在宝藏书的图片中看到的那把自己制作的。

At last he reached the fast disappearing feast and with his sharp knife slashed off a more generous portion than he had hoped for, an entire hairy forearm, where it protruded from beneath the feet of the mighty Kerchak, who was so busily engaged in perpetuating the royal prerogative of gluttony that he failed to note the act of LESE-MAJESTE.
最后，他到达了快速消失的盛宴，用他的锋利的刀砍下了比他希望的更慷慨的部分，整个毛茸茸的前臂，它从强大的克尔恰克的脚下伸出来，他正忙于使王室的暴食特权使他没有注意到冒犯君主的行为。

So little Tarzan wriggled out from beneath the struggling mass, clutching his grisly prize close to his breast.
于是，小泰山从挣扎的人群下面蠕动着出来，紧紧抓住他那可怕的战利品。

Among those circling futilely the outskirts of the banqueters was old Tublat. He had been among the first at the feast, but had retreated with a goodly share to eat in quiet, and was now forcing his way back for more.
老图布拉特就在那些徒劳地绕着宴会场外围转来转去的人中间。他是第一批参加宴会的人之一，但他已经吃了很多东西，安静地吃完了，现在又强行回去拿更多的东西。

So it was that he spied Tarzan as the boy emerged from the clawing, pushing throng with that hairy forearm hugged firmly to his body.
因此，当泰山从爪子中出现时，他看到了泰山，他用那只毛茸茸的前臂紧紧地抱住了他的身体，推开了人群。

Tublat’s little, close-set, bloodshot, pig-eyes shot wicked gleams of hate as they fell upon the object of his loathing. In them, too, was greed for the toothsome dainty the boy carried.
图布拉特那双距离很近、布满血丝的猪眼射出邪恶的仇恨光芒，落在他厌恶的对象上。其中也有对男孩所携带的美味佳肴的贪婪。

But Tarzan saw his arch enemy as quickly, and divining what the great beast would do he leaped nimbly away toward the females and the young, hoping to hide himself among them. Tublat, however, was close upon his heels, so that he had no opportunity to seek a place of concealment, but saw that he would be put to it to escape at all.
但泰山很快就看到了他的头号敌人，并预感到这头巨兽会做什么，他敏捷地跳向雌性和幼崽，希望将自己隐藏在它们之中。然而，图布拉特紧随其后，让他没有机会寻找隐藏的地方，但他发现自己将被迫逃跑。

Swiftly he sped toward the surrounding trees and with an agile bound gained a lower limb with one hand, and then, transferring his burden to his teeth, he climbed rapidly upward, closely followed by Tublat.
他飞快地向周围的树木飞去，敏捷地一跳，一只手获得了下肢，然后把负担转移到牙齿上，他迅速向上爬，图布拉特紧随其后。

Up, up he went to the waving pinnacle of a lofty monarch of the forest where his heavy pursuer dared not follow him. There he perched, hurling taunts and insults at the raging, foaming beast fifty feet below him.
向上，向上，他来到了一位崇高的森林君主那挥舞着的尖顶，而他那沉重的追赶者却不敢追随他。他栖息在那里，对下方五十英尺处那头狂怒、浑身冒着泡沫的野兽发出嘲讽和侮辱。

And then Tublat went mad.
然后图布拉特就疯了。

With horrifying screams and roars he rushed to the ground, among the females and young, sinking his great fangs into a dozen tiny necks and tearing great pieces from the backs and breasts of the females who fell into his clutches.
伴随着可怕的尖叫声和咆哮，他冲到地面上，在雌性和幼崽中间，用他巨大的獠牙咬住十几个细小的脖子，从落入他手中的雌性的背部和胸部撕下大块。

In the brilliant moonlight Tarzan witnessed the whole mad carnival of rage. He saw the females and the young scamper to the safety of the trees. Then the great bulls in the center of the arena felt the mighty fangs of their demented fellow, and with one accord they melted into the black shadows of the overhanging forest.
灿烂的月光下，泰山目睹了整个愤怒的疯狂狂欢。他看到雌性和幼崽跑到安全的树上。然后，竞技场中央的大公牛感受到了它们疯狂同伴的强大獠牙，它们一致地融入了悬垂森林的黑色阴影中。

There was but one in the amphitheater beside Tublat, a belated female running swiftly toward the tree where Tarzan perched, and close behind her came the awful Tublat.
圆形剧场里，图布拉特旁边只有一个，一只迟到的雌性飞快地跑向泰山栖息的树，紧随其后的是可怕的图布拉特。

It was Kala, and as quickly as Tarzan saw that Tublat was gaining on her he dropped with the rapidity of a falling stone, from branch to branch, toward his foster mother.
那是卡拉，当泰山看到图布拉特正在接近她时，他像一块落下的石头一样迅速，从一根树枝到另一根树枝，向他的养母落去。

Now she was beneath the overhanging limbs and close above her crouched Tarzan, waiting the outcome of the race.
现在她就在悬垂的四肢下方，靠近蹲伏的泰山上方，等待着比赛的结果。

She leaped into the air grasping a low-hanging branch, but almost over the head of Tublat, so nearly had he distanced her. She should have been safe now but there was a rending, tearing sound, the branch broke and precipitated her full upon the head of Tublat, knocking him to the ground.
她抓住一根低垂的树枝跳到空中，但几乎在图布拉特的头顶上，他差一点就拉开了她的距离。她现在应该安全了，但突然传来一声撕裂般的声音，树枝折断了，她整个人撞到了图布拉特的头上，把他撞倒在地。

Both were up in an instant, but as quick as they had been Tarzan had been quicker, so that the infuriated bull found himself facing the man-child who stood between him and Kala.
两人都立刻站起来，但泰山的速度比泰山更快，因此愤怒的公牛发现自己面对着站在他和卡拉之间的男孩。

Nothing could have suited the fierce beast better, and with a roar of triumph he leaped upon the little Lord Greystoke. But his fangs never closed in that nut brown flesh.
没有什么比这头凶猛的野兽更适合他了，他发出胜利的咆哮，跳到了小格雷斯托克勋爵身上。但他的尖牙从未在坚果棕色的肉中闭合。

A muscular hand shot out and grasped the hairy throat, and another plunged a keen hunting knife a dozen times into the broad breast. Like lightning the blows fell, and only ceased when Tarzan felt the limp form crumple beneath him.
一只肌肉发达的手猛地伸出，抓住了毛茸茸的喉咙，另一只手则将一把锋利的猎刀插入了宽阔的胸部十几次。拳头像闪电一样落下，直到泰山感觉到那软弱的身体在他身下崩溃时才停止。

As the body rolled to the ground Tarzan of the Apes placed his foot upon the neck of his lifelong enemy and, raising his eyes to the full moon, threw back his fierce young head and voiced the wild and terrible cry of his people.
当尸体滚到地上时，人猿泰山将脚踩在了他一生敌人的脖子上，抬头望着满月，仰起他那凶猛的年轻头颅，发出了他的人民狂野而可怕的呼喊。

One by one the tribe swung down from their arboreal retreats and formed a circle about Tarzan and his vanquished foe. When they had all come Tarzan turned toward them.
部落一个接一个地从树上撤退下来，在泰山和他被击败的敌人周围围成一圈。当他们都来的时候，泰山转向他们。

‘I am Tarzan,’ he cried. ‘I am a great killer. Let all respect Tarzan of the Apes and Kala, his mother. There be none among you as mighty as Tarzan. Let his enemies beware.’
“我是泰山，”他喊道。 ‘我是一个伟大的杀手。让所有人尊重人猿泰山和他的母亲卡拉。你们之中没有人像泰山一样强大。让他的敌人小心吧。

Looking full into the wicked, red eyes of Kerchak, the young Lord Greystoke beat upon his mighty breast and screamed out once more his shrill cry of defiance.
年轻的格雷斯托克勋爵注视着克尔查克那双邪恶的红眼睛，拍打着他雄伟的胸膛，再次发出了他尖厉的反抗叫声。

Chapter 8
第8章


The Tree-top Hunter
树顶猎人

The morning after the Dum-Dum the tribe started slowly back through the forest toward the coast.
达姆达姆节后的第二天早上，部落开始慢慢穿过森林返回海岸。

The body of Tublat lay where it had fallen, for the people of Kerchak do not eat their own dead.
图布拉特的尸体躺在倒下的地方，因为克尔察克人不吃自己的死者。

The march was but a leisurely search for food. Cabbage palm and gray plum, pisang and scitamine they found in abundance, with wild pineapple, and occasionally small mammals, birds, eggs, reptiles, and insects. The nuts they cracked between their powerful jaws, or, if too hard, broke by pounding between stones.
这次行军只是悠闲地寻找食物。他们发现了丰富的卷心菜棕榈、灰李、皮桑和甘草胺，还有野生菠萝，偶尔还有小型哺乳动物、鸟类、蛋、爬行动物和昆虫。它们用强有力的下巴咬碎坚果，或者，如果太用力，就会在石头之间敲击而破碎。

Once old Sabor, crossing their path, sent them scurrying to the safety of the higher branches, for if she respected their number and their sharp fangs, they on their part held her cruel and mighty ferocity in equal esteem.
有一次，老萨博尔穿过他们的道路，把他们赶到了更高的树枝的安全处，因为如果她尊重他们的数量和锋利的尖牙，他们也同样尊重她的残忍和强大的凶猛。

Upon a low-hanging branch sat Tarzan directly above the majestic, supple body as it forged silently through the thick jungle. He hurled a pineapple at the ancient enemy of his people. The great beast stopped and, turning, eyed the taunting figure above her.
泰山坐在一根低垂的树枝上，正上方是它那雄伟而柔软的身体，它静静地穿过茂密的丛林。他向他人民的宿敌扔了一个菠萝。巨兽停了下来，转过身来，看着她上方那个嘲讽的身影。

With an angry lash of her tail she bared her yellow fangs, curling her great lips in a hideous snarl that wrinkled her bristling snout in serried ridges and closed her wicked eyes to two narrow slits of rage and hatred.
她愤怒地甩动尾巴，露出黄色的獠牙，巨大的嘴唇卷起，发出可怕的咆哮，使她竖起的鼻子皱起，并闭上邪恶的眼睛，露出两条狭长的愤怒和仇恨的缝隙。

With back-laid ears she looked straight into the eyes of Tarzan of the Apes and sounded her fierce, shrill challenge. And from the safety of his overhanging limb the ape-child sent back the fearsome answer of his kind.
她耳朵后置，直视人猿泰山的眼睛，发出激烈而尖锐的挑战。猿童从他伸出的安全肢体中发出了同类中令人恐惧的回答。

For a moment the two eyed each other in silence, and then the great cat turned into the jungle, which swallowed her as the ocean engulfs a tossed pebble.
两人沉默地对视了一会儿，然后那只大猫转身进入了丛林，丛林吞没了她，就像海洋吞没了一颗抛掷的卵石一样。

But into the mind of Tarzan a great plan sprang. He had killed the fierce Tublat, so was he not therefore a mighty fighter? Now would he track down the crafty Sabor and slay her likewise. He would be a mighty hunter, also.
但泰山的脑海中浮现出一个伟大的计划。他杀死了凶猛的图布拉特，难道他不是一个强大的战士吗？现在他会追踪狡猾的萨博并同样杀死她。他也将成为一名强大的猎人。

At the bottom of his little English heart beat the great desire to cover his nakedness with CLOTHES for he had learned from his picture books that all MEN were so covered, while MONKEYS and APES and every other living thing went naked.
在他小小的英国心底，强烈地渴望用衣服遮盖自己的裸体，因为他从图画书中了解到，所有的人都是这样遮盖的，而猴子、猿类和其他所有生物都赤身裸体。

CLOTHES therefore, must be truly a badge of greatness; the insignia of the superiority of MAN over all other animals, for surely there could be no other reason for wearing the hideous things.
因此，衣服确实是伟大的标志；这是人类优于所有其他动物的标志，因为肯定没有其他理由穿着这些丑陋的东西。

Many moons ago, when he had been much smaller, he had desired the skin of Sabor, the lioness, or Numa, the lion, or Sheeta, the leopard to cover his hairless body that he might no longer resemble hideous Histah, the snake; but now he was proud of his sleek skin for it betokened his descent from a mighty race, and the conflicting desires to go naked in prideful proof of his ancestry, or to conform to the customs of his own kind and wear hideous and uncomfortable apparel found first one and then the other in the ascendency.
许多个月前，当他还小得多的时候，他想要用母狮萨博尔、狮子努玛、豹子希塔的皮肤来覆盖他无毛的身体，这样他就不再像可怕的蛇希斯塔；他的皮肤被称为“狮子”。但现在他为自己光滑的皮肤感到自豪，因为这表明他来自一个强大的种族，而两种相互矛盾的愿望是赤身裸体以自豪地证明他的血统，或者遵守他自己种族的习俗并穿着丑陋和不舒服的衣服。第一个，然后另一个处于优势。

As the tribe continued their slow way through the forest after the passing of Sabor, Tarzan’s head was filled with his great scheme for slaying his enemy, and for many days thereafter he thought of little else.
萨博尔过后，部落继续缓慢地穿过森林，泰山的脑子里充满了他杀死敌人的伟大计划，此后的许多天里，他几乎没有想到其他事情。

On this day, however, he presently had other and more immediate interests to attract his attention.
然而，这一天，他有其他更直接的兴趣吸引了他的注意力。

Suddenly it became as midnight; the noises of the jungle ceased; the trees stood motionless as though in paralyzed expectancy of some great and imminent disaster. All nature waited—but not for long.
突然间，时间变成了午夜；丛林的喧嚣停止了；树木一动不动地站着，仿佛麻木地等待着某种巨大而迫在眉睫的灾难。整个大自然都在等待——但时间不长。

Faintly, from a distance, came a low, sad moaning. Nearer and nearer it approached, mounting louder and louder in volume.
远处，隐约传来一声低沉、悲伤的呻吟。它越来越近，声音越来越大。

The great trees bent in unison as though pressed earthward by a mighty hand. Farther and farther toward the ground they inclined, and still there was no sound save the deep and awesome moaning of the wind.
大树齐齐弯曲，仿佛被一只强大的手压向地面。它们向地面倾斜得越来越远，但除了风的深沉而可怕的呻吟声之外，仍然没有任何声音。

Then, suddenly, the jungle giants whipped back, lashing their mighty tops in angry and deafening protest. A vivid and blinding light flashed from the whirling, inky clouds above. The deep cannonade of roaring thunder belched forth its fearsome challenge. The deluge came—all hell broke loose upon the jungle.
然后，突然间，丛林巨人猛地反击，猛烈地拍打着他们强大的头顶，发出愤怒而震耳欲聋的抗议。头顶上旋转的墨色云彩中，闪现出鲜明而耀眼的光芒。轰鸣雷霆的深沉大炮喷出可怕的挑战。洪水来了——丛林里一片地狱。

The tribe shivering from the cold rain, huddled at the bases of great trees. The lightning, darting and flashing through the blackness, showed wildly waving branches, whipping streamers and bending trunks.
部落在寒冷的雨中瑟瑟发抖，挤在大树的根部。闪电在黑暗中疾驰而过，展现出疯狂挥舞的树枝、鞭打的飘带和弯曲的树干。

Now and again some ancient patriarch of the woods, rent by a flashing bolt, would crash in a thousand pieces among the surrounding trees, carrying down numberless branches and many smaller neighbors to add to the tangled confusion of the tropical jungle.
时不时地，一些古老的森林族长会被一道闪电撕裂，在周围的树木中摔成一千块，带走无数的树枝和许多较小的邻居，给热带丛林增添了混乱。

Branches, great and small, torn away by the ferocity of the tornado, hurtled through the wildly waving verdure, carrying death and destruction to countless unhappy denizens of the thickly peopled world below.
大大小小的树枝被猛烈的龙卷风扯断，穿过狂野摇曳的翠绿，为下方人口稠密的世界中无数不幸的居民带来死亡和毁灭。

For hours the fury of the storm continued without surcease, and still the tribe huddled close in shivering fear. In constant danger from falling trunks and branches and paralyzed by the vivid flashing of lightning and the bellowing of thunder they crouched in pitiful misery until the storm passed.
暴风雨的猛烈持续了好几个小时，没有停歇，部落的人仍然在恐惧中瑟瑟发抖地挤在一起。他们不断面临着树干和树枝倒下的危险，又被生动的闪电和雷霆的轰鸣所瘫痪，他们痛苦地蹲伏着，直到暴风雨过去。

The end was as sudden as the beginning. The wind ceased, the sun shone forth—nature smiled once more.
结束和开始一样突然。风停了，阳光普照——大自然再次微笑。

The dripping leaves and branches, and the moist petals of gorgeous flowers glistened in the splendor of the returning day. And, so—as Nature forgot, her children forgot also. Busy life went on as it had been before the darkness and the fright.
滴水的枝叶和湿润的花瓣，在归来的日子里闪闪发光。而且，正如大自然忘记了一样，她的孩子们也忘记了。忙碌的生活一如既往，就像黑暗和恐惧之前一样。

But to Tarzan a dawning light had come to explain the mystery of CLOTHES. How snug he would have been beneath the heavy coat of Sabor! And so was added a further incentive to the adventure.
但对泰山来说，曙光已经到来，解释了服装的奥秘。在萨伯厚重的外套下，他会多么舒服啊！这样就为这次冒险增添了进一步的动力。

For several months the tribe hovered near the beach where stood Tarzan’s cabin, and his studies took up the greater portion of his time, but always when journeying through the forest he kept his rope in readiness, and many were the smaller animals that fell into the snare of the quick thrown noose.
几个月来，部落在泰山小屋所在的海滩附近徘徊，他的学习占据了他的大部分时间，但在穿越森林时，他总是准备好绳子，其中许多是掉进树丛的较小动物。快速抛出的绞索的圈套。

Once it fell about the short neck of Horta, the boar, and his mad lunge for freedom toppled Tarzan from the overhanging limb where he had lain in wait and from whence he had launched his sinuous coil.
一旦它落在野猪霍塔的短脖子上，他疯狂地冲向自由，就将泰山从他埋伏的悬垂肢体上推倒，并从那里发射了他蜿蜒的线圈。

The mighty tusker turned at the sound of his falling body, and, seeing only the easy prey of a young ape, he lowered his head and charged madly at the surprised youth.
巨大的獠牙听到自己倒下的声音，猛然转身，只看到了一只幼猿的轻松猎物，低下头，疯狂地向惊讶的少年冲去。

Tarzan, happily, was uninjured by the fall, alighting catlike upon all fours far outspread to take up the shock. He was on his feet in an instant and, leaping with the agility of the monkey he was, he gained the safety of a low limb as Horta, the boar, rushed futilely beneath.
令人高兴的是，泰山并没有因为摔倒而受伤，它像猫一样四肢着地，远远地伸展以承受冲击。他立刻站了起来，像猴子一样敏捷地跳跃着，当野猪奥尔塔徒劳地冲到下面时，他用下肢获得了安全。

Thus it was that Tarzan learned by experience the limitations as well as the possibilities of his strange weapon.
因此，泰山通过经验了解了他的奇怪武器的局限性和可能性。

He lost a long rope on this occasion, but he knew that had it been Sabor who had thus dragged him from his perch the outcome might have been very different, for he would have lost his life, doubtless, into the bargain.
这次他失去了一根长绳子，但他知道，如果是萨博尔把他从栖息处拖下来，结果可能会大不相同，因为毫无疑问，他会在这场交易中失去生命。

It took him many days to braid a new rope, but when, finally, it was done he went forth purposely to hunt, and lie in wait among the dense foliage of a great branch right above the well-beaten trail that led to water.
他花了好几天的时间才编了一根新绳子，但当终于编好后，他特意出去打猎，并在通向水源的人迹罕至的小道上方的一根大树枝的浓密树叶中埋伏等待。

Several small animals passed unharmed beneath him. He did not want such insignificant game. It would take a strong animal to test the efficacy of his new scheme.
几只小动物毫发无伤地从他身下经过。他不想玩这种无关紧要的游戏。需要一只强壮的动物来测试他的新计划的功效。

At last came she whom Tarzan sought, with lithe sinews rolling beneath shimmering hide; fat and glossy came Sabor, the lioness.
泰山所寻找的她终于来了，她柔韧的肌腱在闪闪发光的兽皮下滚动。肥胖而光滑的母狮萨博尔来了。

Her great padded feet fell soft and noiseless on the narrow trail. Her head was high in ever alert attention; her long tail moved slowly in sinuous and graceful undulations.
她那双带垫子的大脚踩在狭窄的小路上，柔软而无声。她的头始终保持着高度警惕的神情。她的长尾巴缓慢地摆动着，蜿蜒而优雅。

Nearer and nearer she came to where Tarzan of the Apes crouched upon his limb, the coils of his long rope poised ready in his hand.
她越来越近，来到了猿人泰山蹲在他的四肢上的地方，一卷长绳子在他手里准备好了。

Like a thing of bronze, motionless as death, sat Tarzan. Sabor passed beneath. One stride beyond she took—a second, a third, and then the silent coil shot out above her.
泰山像青铜一样，一动不动地坐着。萨博尔从下面经过。她向前迈出一步——第二步，第三步，然后无声的线圈在她上方射出。

For an instant the spreading noose hung above her head like a great snake, and then, as she looked upward to detect the origin of the swishing sound of the rope, it settled about her neck. With a quick jerk Tarzan snapped the noose tight about the glossy throat, and then he dropped the rope and clung to his support with both hands.
一瞬间，张开的绞索像​​一条大蛇一样悬挂在她的头顶上，然后，当她向上看去寻找绳子嗖嗖的声音的来源时，它落在了她的脖子上。泰山猛地一拉，把套索紧紧地套在光滑的喉咙上，然后他放下绳子，用双手抓住支撑物。

Sabor was trapped.
萨博尔被困住了。

With a bound the startled beast turned into the jungle, but Tarzan was not to lose another rope through the same cause as the first. He had learned from experience. The lioness had taken but half her second bound when she felt the rope tighten about her neck; her body turned completely over in the air and she fell with a heavy crash upon her back. Tarzan had fastened the end of the rope securely to the trunk of the great tree on which he sat.
受惊的野兽一跳，转入丛林，但泰山不会因为与第一根绳子相同的原因而失去另一根绳子。他从经验中吸取了教训。母狮第二次跳跃才跳到一半，就感觉到脖子上的绳子收紧了。她的身体在空中彻底翻转，重重地仰面摔倒。泰山已将绳子的一端牢固地固定在他坐的那棵大树的树干上。

Thus far his plan had worked to perfection, but when he grasped the rope, bracing himself behind a crotch of two mighty branches, he found that dragging the mighty, struggling, clawing, biting, screaming mass of iron-muscled fury up to the tree and hanging her was a very different proposition.
到目前为止，他的计划已经很完美，但是当他抓住绳子，用两根粗大的树枝撑住自己时，他发现将那群强大的、挣扎着、抓着、咬着、尖叫着的钢铁般的愤怒拖到了树上。绞死她是一个非常不同的提议。

The weight of old Sabor was immense, and when she braced her huge paws nothing less than Tantor, the elephant, himself, could have budged her.
老萨博尔的体重是巨大的，当她张开巨大的爪子时，不亚于坦托尔，大象本身就可以移动她。

The lioness was now back in the path where she could see the author of the indignity which had been placed upon her. Screaming with rage she suddenly charged, leaping high into the air toward Tarzan, but when her huge body struck the limb on which Tarzan had been, Tarzan was no longer there.
母狮现在又回到了路上，她可以看到对她进行侮辱的人。她愤怒地尖叫着，突然冲向泰山，高高跃起，扑向泰山，但当她巨大的身体撞到泰山原本所在的肢体时，泰山已经不在那里了。

Instead he perched lightly upon a smaller branch twenty feet above the raging captive. For a moment Sabor hung half across the branch, while Tarzan mocked, and hurled twigs and branches at her unprotected face.
相反，他轻轻地栖息在距愤怒的俘虏二十英尺处的一根较小的树枝上。有那么一会儿，萨伯半挂在树枝上，而泰山则嘲笑着，并向她毫无保护的脸投掷树枝。

Presently the beast dropped to the earth again and Tarzan came quickly to seize the rope, but Sabor had now found that it was only a slender cord that held her, and grasping it in her huge jaws severed it before Tarzan could tighten the strangling noose a second time.
不久，野兽再次落到地上，泰山迅速赶来抓住绳子，但萨博尔现在发现那只是一根细绳，固定着她，在泰山拉紧绞索之前，她用巨大的嘴抓住了绳子，将绳子割断了。第二次。

Tarzan was much hurt. His well-laid plan had come to naught, so he sat there screaming at the roaring creature beneath him and making mocking grimaces at it.
泰山很受伤。他精心策划的计划落空了，所以他坐在那里，对着身下咆哮的生物尖叫，并对它做出嘲笑的鬼脸。

Sabor paced back and forth beneath the tree for hours; four times she crouched and sprang at the dancing sprite above her, but might as well have clutched at the illusive wind that murmured through the tree tops.
萨博尔在树下来回踱步了几个小时。有四次，她蹲下来，扑向头顶上跳舞的精灵，但也可能抓住了从树顶低语的虚幻风。

At last Tarzan tired of the sport, and with a parting roar of challenge and a well-aimed ripe fruit that spread soft and sticky over the snarling face of his enemy, he swung rapidly through the trees, a hundred feet above the ground, and in a short time was among the members of his tribe.
最后，人猿泰山厌倦了这项运动，伴随着一声临别时的挑战吼声和一个瞄准良好的成熟果实，柔软而粘稠地散布在敌人咆哮的脸上，他快速地荡过树林，距离地面一百英尺，然后很快就成为了他部落的成员。

Here he recounted the details of his adventure, with swelling chest and so considerable swagger that he quite impressed even his bitterest enemies, while Kala fairly danced for joy and pride.
在这里，他讲述了自己冒险的细节，胸膛隆起，神气十足，甚至给他最恶毒的敌人留下了深刻的印象，而卡拉则因喜悦和自豪而手舞足蹈。

Chapter 9
第9章


Man and Man
男人与男人

Tarzan of the Apes lived on in his wild, jungle existence with little change for several years, only that he grew stronger and wiser, and learned from his books more and more of the strange worlds which lay somewhere outside his primeval forest.
人猿泰山在狂野的丛林中生活了好几年，几乎没有什么变化，只是他变得更坚强、更聪明，并从他的书中了解到越来越多位于原始森林之外的奇怪世界。

To him life was never monotonous or stale. There was always Pisah, the fish, to be caught in the many streams and the little lakes, and Sabor, with her ferocious cousins to keep one ever on the alert and give zest to every instant that one spent upon the ground.
对他来说，生活从来都不是单调或乏味的。总是有皮萨鱼，可以在许多溪流和小湖泊中捕获，还有萨博尔，和她凶猛的表亲一起让人们时刻保持警惕，并为人们在地面上度过的每一刻注入热情。

Often they hunted him, and more often he hunted them, but though they never quite reached him with those cruel, sharp claws of theirs, yet there were times when one could scarce have passed a thick leaf between their talons and his smooth hide.
他们经常猎杀他，而他也经常猎杀他们，虽然他们从来没有用那些残忍、锋利的爪子完全够到他，但有时人们几乎无法在他们的爪子和他光滑的皮毛之间穿过一片厚厚的树叶。

Quick was Sabor, the lioness, and quick were Numa and Sheeta, but Tarzan of the Apes was lightning.
敏捷是母狮萨博尔，敏捷是努玛和希塔，但人猿泰山是闪电。

With Tantor, the elephant, he made friends. How? Ask not. But this is known to the denizens of the jungle, that on many moonlight nights Tarzan of the Apes and Tantor, the elephant, walked together, and where the way was clear Tarzan rode, perched high upon Tantor’s mighty back.
他和大象坦托交上了朋友。如何？不问。但丛林居民都知道，在许多月夜，猿人泰山和大象坦托一起行走，在道路畅通的地方，泰山骑着，高高地栖息在坦托强大的背上。

Many days during these years he spent in the cabin of his father, where still lay, untouched, the bones of his parents and the skeleton of Kala’s baby. At eighteen he read fluently and understood nearly all he read in the many and varied volumes on the shelves.
这些年来，他在父亲的小屋里度过了很多天，那里仍然安放着他父母的骨头和卡拉婴儿的骨架，原封未动。十八岁时，他阅读流利，几乎能理解书架上各种各样的书籍中读到的所有内容。

Also could he write, with printed letters, rapidly and plainly, but script he had not mastered, for though there were several copy books among his treasure, there was so little written English in the cabin that he saw no use for bothering with this other form of writing, though he could read it, laboriously.
他还可以用印刷体字母快速而简单地书写，但他还没有掌握文字，因为尽管他的宝藏中有几本抄写本，但小屋里的书面英语却很少，他认为没有必要费心去写其他的东西。尽管他可以费力地阅读它，但还是以书写形式进行。

Thus, at eighteen, we find him, an English lordling, who could speak no English, and yet who could read and write his native language. Never had he seen a human being other than himself, for the little area traversed by his tribe was watered by no greater river to bring down the savage natives of the interior.
因此，十八岁时，我们发现他是一个英国贵族，不会说英语，但却能读写他的母语。除了他自己之外，他从未见过其他人，因为他的部落所穿越的那片小区域没有更大的河流浇灌，无法消灭内陆的野蛮土著。

High hills shut it off on three sides, the ocean on the fourth. It was alive with lions and leopards and poisonous snakes. Its untouched mazes of matted jungle had as yet invited no hardy pioneer from the human beasts beyond its frontier.
高耸的山丘将其三边隔断，第四边则是海洋。那里充满了狮子、豹子和毒蛇。其未受破坏的丛林迷宫尚未邀请到其边境以外的人类野兽中的勇敢先锋。

But as Tarzan of the Apes sat one day in the cabin of his father delving into the mysteries of a new book, the ancient security of his jungle was broken forever.
但有一天，当《人猿泰山》坐在他父亲的小屋里，深入研究一本新书的奥秘时，他丛林中古老的安全感被永远打破了。

At the far eastern confine a strange cavalcade strung, in single file, over the brow of a low hill.
在远东地区，一支奇怪的队伍在一座低矮的山脊上排成一列。

In advance were fifty black warriors armed with slender wooden spears with ends hard baked over slow fires, and long bows and poisoned arrows. On their backs were oval shields, in their noses huge rings, while from the kinky wool of their heads protruded tufts of gay feathers.
前面有五十名黑人武士，他们装备着细长的木矛，末端经过文火烘烤，还有长弓和毒箭。他们的背上有椭圆形的盾牌，鼻子上有巨大的环，而他们头上的卷曲的羊毛中突出了一簇簇快乐的羽毛。

Across their foreheads were tattooed three parallel lines of color, and on each breast three concentric circles. Their yellow teeth were filed to sharp points, and their great protruding lips added still further to the low and bestial brutishness of their appearance.
他们的额头上纹着三条平行的彩色线，每个乳房上纹着三个同心圆。他们的黄色牙齿被锉得锋利，而突出的大嘴唇则进一步增添了他们外表的低贱和兽性。

Following them were several hundred women and children, the former bearing upon their heads great burdens of cooking pots, household utensils and ivory. In the rear were a hundred warriors, similar in all respects to the advance guard.
他们身后跟着数百名妇女和儿童，她们的头上顶着炊具、家庭用具和象牙等重担。后方有一百名战士，各方面都与前卫相似。

That they more greatly feared an attack from the rear than whatever unknown enemies lurked in their advance was evidenced by the formation of the column; and such was the fact, for they were fleeing from the white man’s soldiers who had so harassed them for rubber and ivory that they had turned upon their conquerors one day and massacred a white officer and a small detachment of his black troops.
与潜伏在前进中的未知敌人相比，他们更害怕来自后方的攻击，这一点从纵队的编队中就可见一斑。事实就是如此，因为他们正在逃离白人士兵的骚扰，这些士兵为了橡胶和象牙而骚扰他们，以至于有一天他们背叛了他们的征服者，屠杀了一名白人军官和他的一小支黑人部队。

For many days they had gorged themselves on meat, but eventually a stronger body of troops had come and fallen upon their village by night to revenge the death of their comrades.
许多天来，他们一直在吃肉，但最终一支更强大的部队来了，在夜间袭击了他们的村庄，为死去的战友报仇。

That night the black soldiers of the white man had had meat a-plenty, and this little remnant of a once powerful tribe had slunk off into the gloomy jungle toward the unknown, and freedom.
那天晚上，白人的黑人士兵吃饱了肉，这个曾经强大的部落的一小部分残余已经溜进阴暗的丛林，走向未知和自由。

But that which meant freedom and the pursuit of happiness to these savage blacks meant consternation and death to many of the wild denizens of their new home.
但对于这些野蛮的黑人来说，这意味着自由和追求幸福，但对于他们新家园的许多野生居民来说，却意味着惊愕和死亡。

For three days the little cavalcade marched slowly through the heart of this unknown and untracked forest, until finally, early in the fourth day, they came upon a little spot near the banks of a small river, which seemed less thickly overgrown than any ground they had yet encountered.
三天来，这支小队伍缓慢地行进在这片未知的、无人踪迹的森林中心，直到第四天早些时候，他们终于来到了一条小河岸边的一个小地方，那里的杂草似乎没有他们所到过的任何地方那么茂密。还没有遇到过。

Here they set to work to build a new village, and in a month a great clearing had been made, huts and palisades erected, plantains, yams and maize planted, and they had taken up their old life in their new home. Here there were no white men, no soldiers, nor any rubber or ivory to be gathered for cruel and thankless taskmasters.
他们开始在这里建造一个新村庄，一个月内就清理出了一大片空地，搭建了小屋和栅栏，种植了车前草、山药和玉米，他们在新家又开始了原来的生活。这里没有白人，没有士兵，也没有任何橡胶或象牙可供残酷而吃力不讨好的工头收集。

Several moons passed by ere the blacks ventured far into the territory surrounding their new village. Several had already fallen prey to old Sabor, and because the jungle was so infested with these fierce and bloodthirsty cats, and with lions and leopards, the ebony warriors hesitated to trust themselves far from the safety of their palisades.
几个月过去了，黑人冒险深入新村庄周围的地区。有几个已经成为了老萨博尔的猎物，而且由于丛林中充斥着这些凶猛嗜血的猫科动物以及狮子和豹子，乌木武士们犹豫是否要相信自己远离安全的栅栏。

But one day, Kulonga, a son of the old king, Mbonga, wandered far into the dense mazes to the west. Warily he stepped, his slender lance ever ready, his long oval shield firmly grasped in his left hand close to his sleek ebony body.
但有一天，老国王姆邦加 (Mbonga) 的儿子库隆加 (Kulonga) 走进了西边茂密的迷宫。他小心翼翼地迈步，细长的长矛随时准备着，左手紧握着长长的椭圆形盾牌，靠近光滑的乌木身体。

At his back his bow, and in the quiver upon his shield many slim, straight arrows, well smeared with the thick, dark, tarry substance that rendered deadly their tiniest needle prick.
他背后有弓，盾牌上的箭袋里有许多又细又直的箭，上面涂满了厚厚的、黑色的、柏油状的物质，即使是最微小的针刺也能致命。

Night found Kulonga far from the palisades of his father’s village, but still headed westward, and climbing into the fork of a great tree he fashioned a rude platform and curled himself for sleep.
夜晚发现库隆加远离他父亲村庄的栅栏，但仍然向西行进，爬上一棵大树的叉子，他搭建了一个简陋的平台，蜷缩着睡觉。

Three miles to the west slept the tribe of Kerchak.
向西三英里处睡着的是克尔恰克部落。

Early the next morning the apes were astir, moving through the jungle in search of food. Tarzan, as was his custom, prosecuted his search in the direction of the cabin so that by leisurely hunting on the way his stomach was filled by the time he reached the beach.
第二天一早，猩猩们就开始活跃起来，穿过丛林寻找食物。泰山按照他的习惯，朝着小屋的方向继续搜寻，这样，在路上悠闲地狩猎，当他到达海滩时，他的胃就填饱了。

The apes scattered by ones, and twos, and threes in all directions, but ever within sound of a signal of alarm.
猩猩们一个个、三三两两地向四面八方散开，但总是在警报声响起的范围内。

Kala had moved slowly along an elephant track toward the east, and was busily engaged in turning over rotted limbs and logs in search of succulent bugs and fungi, when the faintest shadow of a strange noise brought her to startled attention.
卡拉沿着大象的足迹缓慢地向东移动，正忙着翻动腐烂的树枝和木头，寻找多汁的虫子和真菌，这时一阵奇怪的声音的最微弱的影子让她大吃一惊。

For fifty yards before her the trail was straight, and down this leafy tunnel she saw the stealthy advancing figure of a strange and fearful creature.
在她前方五十码处，小路是笔直的，沿着这条绿树成荫的隧道，她看到了一个奇怪而可怕的生物正在悄悄走来的身影。

It was Kulonga.
是库隆加。

Kala did not wait to see more, but, turning, moved rapidly back along the trail. She did not run; but, after the manner of her kind when not aroused, sought rather to avoid than to escape.
卡拉没等看更多，而是转身沿着小路快速返回。她没有跑；她没有跑。但是，按照她的同类在没有被唤醒时的态度，与其说是逃跑，不如说是回避。

Close after her came Kulonga. Here was meat. He could make a killing and feast well this day. On he hurried, his spear poised for the throw.
紧随其后的是库隆加。这是肉。这一天，他可以大赚一笔，大饱口福了。他加快步伐，准备投掷长矛。

At a turning of the trail he came in sight of her again upon another straight stretch. His spear hand went far back the muscles rolled, lightning-like, beneath the sleek hide. Out shot the arm, and the spear sped toward Kala.
在小路的一个转弯处，他在另一条笔直的路段上再次看到了她。他的长矛手向后伸得很远，光滑的兽皮下面的肌肉像闪电一样滚动。手臂射出，长矛飞向卡拉。

A poor cast. It but grazed her side.
演员阵容很差。但它却擦伤了她的身侧。

With a cry of rage and pain the she-ape turned upon her tormentor. In an instant the trees were crashing beneath the weight of her hurrying fellows, swinging rapidly toward the scene of trouble in answer to Kala’s scream.
母猿发出一声愤怒而痛苦的叫声，转向了折磨她的人。刹那间，树木在她匆忙的伙伴们的重压下崩溃了，响应卡拉的尖叫声，它们迅速向出事地点摆动。

As she charged, Kulonga unslung his bow and fitted an arrow with almost unthinkable quickness. Drawing the shaft far back he drove the poisoned missile straight into the heart of the great anthropoid.
当她冲锋时，库隆加解开弓，以几乎难以想象的速度射出一支箭。他将箭杆向后拉得很远，将有毒的导弹直接射入了巨大类人猿的心脏。

With a horrid scream Kala plunged forward upon her face before the astonished members of her tribe.
伴随着一声可怕的尖叫，卡拉在惊讶的部落成员面前扑倒在地。

Roaring and shrieking the apes dashed toward Kulonga, but that wary savage was fleeing down the trail like a frightened antelope.
猩猩们咆哮着、尖叫着向库隆加冲去，但那个警惕的野蛮人却像受惊的羚羊一样顺着小路逃跑。

He knew something of the ferocity of these wild, hairy men, and his one desire was to put as many miles between himself and them as he possibly could.
他对这些毛茸茸的野蛮人的凶猛有所了解，他唯一的愿望就是尽可能远离他们。

They followed him, racing through the trees, for a long distance, but finally one by one they abandoned the chase and returned to the scene of the tragedy.
他们跟着他，穿过树林，跑了很长一段距离，最后一一放弃了追逐，回到了悲剧现场。

None of them had ever seen a man before, other than Tarzan, and so they wondered vaguely what strange manner of creature it might be that had invaded their jungle.
除了人猿泰山之外，他们中没有人见过人类，因此他们隐约想知道入侵他们丛林的可能是一种什么样的奇怪生物。

On the far beach by the little cabin Tarzan heard the faint echoes of the conflict and knowing that something was seriously amiss among the tribe he hastened rapidly toward the direction of the sound.
在远处的海滩上，小木屋旁的泰山听到了微弱的冲突回声，他知道部落中出现了严重的问题，他迅速朝声音传来的方向走去。

When he arrived he found the entire tribe gathered jabbering about the dead body of his slain mother.
当他到达时，他发现整个部落都聚集在一起，议论着他被杀母亲的尸体。

Tarzan’s grief and anger were unbounded. He roared out his hideous challenge time and again. He beat upon his great chest with his clenched fists, and then he fell upon the body of Kala and sobbed out the pitiful sorrowing of his lonely heart.
泰山的悲伤和愤怒是无限的。他一次又一次地咆哮着发出可怕的挑战。他用紧握的拳头捶打着自己宽大的胸膛，然后倒在卡拉的身上，抽泣着诉说着他孤独的心的可怜哀伤。

To lose the only creature in all his world who ever had manifested love and affection for him was the greatest tragedy he had ever known.
失去这个世界上唯一对他表现出爱和感情的生物是他所知道的最大的悲剧。

What though Kala was a fierce and hideous ape! To Tarzan she had been kind, she had been beautiful.
尽管卡拉是一只凶猛而丑陋的猩猩！对于泰山来说，她很友善，她很美丽。

Upon her he had lavished, unknown to himself, all the reverence and respect and love that a normal English boy feels for his own mother. He had never known another, and so to Kala was given, though mutely, all that would have belonged to the fair and lovely Lady Alice had she lived.
他在她身上倾注了一个普通英国男孩对自己母亲的所有崇敬、尊重和爱，而他自己却不知道。他从未认识过另一个人，因此，卡拉被无声地给予了她所有属于美丽可爱的爱丽丝女士的一切，如果她还活着的话。

After the first outburst of grief Tarzan controlled himself, and questioning the members of the tribe who had witnessed the killing of Kala he learned all that their meager vocabulary could convey.
在悲伤的第一次爆发之后，泰山控制住了自己，并询问了目睹卡拉被杀的部落成员，他了解到他们微薄的词汇所能表达的一切。

It was enough, however, for his needs. It told him of a strange, hairless, black ape with feathers growing upon its head, who launched death from a slender branch, and then ran, with the fleetness of Bara, the deer, toward the rising sun.
不过，这已经足够满足他的需要了。它告诉他有一种奇怪的、无毛的黑色猿猴，头上长着羽毛，它从一根细长的树枝上发射出死亡，然后像鹿巴拉一样敏捷地跑向冉冉升起的太阳。

Tarzan waited no longer, but leaping into the branches of the trees sped rapidly through the forest. He knew the windings of the elephant trail along which Kala’s murderer had flown, and so he cut straight through the jungle to intercept the black warrior who was evidently following the tortuous detours of the trail.
泰山不再等待，而是跳上树枝，快速穿过森林。他知道谋杀卡拉的凶手所飞过的大象小道蜿蜒曲折，因此他径直穿过丛林去拦截显然正在沿着曲折的小道走的黑武士。

At his side was the hunting knife of his unknown sire, and across his shoulders the coils of his own long rope. In an hour he struck the trail again, and coming to earth examined the soil minutely.
他的身旁放着一把来自他不知名的祖先的猎刀，肩上还挂着他自己的一圈长绳子。一个小时后，他再次踏上小路，来到地面，仔细检查了土壤。

In the soft mud on the bank of a tiny rivulet he found footprints such as he alone in all the jungle had ever made, but much larger than his. His heart beat fast. Could it be that he was trailing a MAN—one of his own race?
在一条小溪岸边的软泥里，他发现了他独自一人在整个丛林中留下的脚印，但比他的大得多。他的心跳得很快。难道他正在跟踪一个人——他自己的种族？

There were two sets of imprints pointing in opposite directions. So his quarry had already passed on his return along the trail. As he examined the newer spoor a tiny particle of earth toppled from the outer edge of one of the footprints to the bottom of its shallow depression—ah, the trail was very fresh, his prey must have but scarcely passed.
有两组印记指向相反的方向。所以他的猎物已经沿着他的小路经过了。当他检查新的脚印时，一小块泥土从其中一个脚印的外缘掉落到浅凹处的底部——啊，痕迹很新鲜，他的猎物肯定已经过去了，但几乎没有经过。

Tarzan swung himself to the trees once more, and with swift noiselessness sped along high above the trail.
泰山再次荡向树林，悄无声息地沿着小径的高处疾驰。

He had covered barely a mile when he came upon the black warrior standing in a little open space. In his hand was his slender bow to which he had fitted one of his death dealing arrows.
他刚走了一英里，就看到了站在一小块空地上的黑武士。他手里拿着一把细长的弓，弓上装有一支致命的箭。

Opposite him across the little clearing stood Horta, the boar, with lowered head and foam flecked tucks, ready to charge.
在他对面的小空地上，野猪霍塔低着头，身上布满了泡沫，准备发起冲锋。

Tarzan looked with wonder upon the strange creature beneath him—so like him in form and yet so different in face and color. His books had portrayed the NEGRO, but how different had been the dull, dead print to this sleek thing of ebony, pulsing with life.
泰山惊奇地看着他脚下的奇怪生物——外形与他如此相似，但面孔和颜色却如此不同。他的书描绘了黑人，但与这种光滑、充满生命脉动的乌木材质相比，单调、死气沉沉的印刷是多么不同。

As the man stood there with taut drawn bow Tarzan recognized him not so much the NEGRO as the ARCHER of his picture book—
当那个人站在那里，拉紧弓时，泰山认出了他，与其说是黑人，不如说是他图画书中的弓箭手——

A stands for Archer
A代表弓箭手

How wonderful! Tarzan almost betrayed his presence in the deep excitement of his discovery.
多么美妙！泰山在他的发现的强烈兴奋中几乎暴露了他的存在。

But things were commencing to happen below him. The sinewy black arm had drawn the shaft far back; Horta, the boar, was charging, and then the black released the little poisoned arrow, and Tarzan saw it fly with the quickness of thought and lodge in the bristling neck of the boar.
但在他脚下，事情开始发生。强壮的黑色手臂将轴拉得很远。野猪奥尔塔正在冲锋，然后黑人射出了那支小毒箭，泰山看到它以敏捷的速度飞了起来，射进了野猪竖起的脖子里。

Scarcely had the shaft left his bow ere Kulonga had fitted another to it, but Horta, the boar, was upon him so quickly that he had no time to discharge it. With a bound the black leaped entirely over the rushing beast and turning with incredible swiftness planted a second arrow in Horta’s back.
箭杆刚离开他的弓，库隆加就装上了另一根箭，但野猪奥尔塔很快就扑到了他身上，他根本来不及发射箭。黑色一跳，完全跳过了冲来的野兽，并以令人难以置信的速度转身，将第二支箭插在了霍塔的背上。

Then Kulonga sprang into a near-by tree.
然后库隆加跳进了附近的一棵树上。

Horta wheeled to charge his enemy once more; a dozen steps he took, then he staggered and fell upon his side. For a moment his muscles stiffened and relaxed convulsively, then he lay still.
霍塔转身再次冲向敌人。他走了十几步，然后一个踉跄，倒在了一边。有一瞬间，他的肌肉痉挛般僵硬又放松，然后就一动不动地躺着。

Kulonga came down from his tree.
库隆加从树上下来。

With a knife that hung at his side he cut several large pieces from the boar’s body, and in the center of the trail he built a fire, cooking and eating as much as he wanted. The rest he left where it had fallen.
他用身旁挂着的一把刀，从野猪的身上切下了几块大块，然后在小路中央生了一堆火，想吃多少就吃多少。其余的他留在了掉落的地方。

Tarzan was an interested spectator. His desire to kill burned fiercely in his wild breast, but his desire to learn was even greater. He would follow this savage creature for a while and know from whence he came. He could kill him at his leisure later, when the bow and deadly arrows were laid aside.
泰山是一位感兴趣的观众。他的杀戮欲望在他狂野的胸膛中熊熊燃烧，但他的学习欲望却更加强烈。他会跟随这个野蛮的生物一段时间，并知道他从哪里来。当弓和致命的箭放在一边时，他可以在闲暇时杀死他。

When Kulonga had finished his repast and disappeared beyond a near turning of the path, Tarzan dropped quietly to the ground. With his knife he severed many strips of meat from Horta’s carcass, but he did not cook them.
当库隆加吃完饭，消失在小路的拐角处时，泰山静静地倒在了地上。他用刀从奥尔塔的尸体上切下许多肉条，但他没有煮它们。

He had seen fire, but only when Ara, the lightning, had destroyed some great tree. That any creature of the jungle could produce the red-and-yellow fangs which devoured wood and left nothing but fine dust surprised Tarzan greatly, and why the black warrior had ruined his delicious repast by plunging it into the blighting heat was quite beyond him. Possibly Ara was a friend with whom the Archer was sharing his food.
他见过火，但只有当阿拉，闪电，摧毁了一棵大树时。丛林中的任何生物都能长出红黄相间的獠牙，这些獠牙会吞噬木头，只留下细小的灰尘，这让泰山大吃一惊，而这个黑武士为什么要把他的美味佳肴扔进酷热的环境中，从而毁掉了它。阿拉可能是弓箭手正在与他分享食物的朋友。

But, be that as it may, Tarzan would not ruin good meat in any such foolish manner, so he gobbled down a great quantity of the raw flesh, burying the balance of the carcass beside the trail where he could find it upon his return.
但是，无论如何，泰山不会以这种愚蠢的方式毁掉好肉，所以他狼吞虎咽地吃掉了大量的生肉，把剩下的尸体埋在路边，等他回来时就能找到。

And then Lord Greystoke wiped his greasy fingers upon his naked thighs and took up the trail of Kulonga, the son of Mbonga, the king; while in far-off London another Lord Greystoke, the younger brother of the real Lord Greystoke’s father, sent back his chops to the club’s CHEF because they were underdone, and when he had finished his repast he dipped his finger-ends into a silver bowl of scented water and dried them upon a piece of snowy damask.
然后格雷斯托克勋爵用他赤裸的大腿擦了擦油腻的手指，追寻国王姆邦加之子库隆加的踪迹。而在遥远的伦敦，另一位格雷斯托克勋爵，真正的格雷斯托克勋爵父亲的弟弟，把他的排骨送回了俱乐部的厨师，因为它们还没有煮熟，当他吃完饭后，他将指尖浸入一个银碗里香水并将它们放在一块雪白的锦缎上干燥。

All day Tarzan followed Kulonga, hovering above him in the trees like some malign spirit. Twice more he saw him hurl his arrows of destruction—once at Dango, the hyena, and again at Manu, the monkey. In each instance the animal died almost instantly, for Kulonga’s poison was very fresh and very deadly.
泰山一整天都跟着库隆加，在他上方的树林里盘旋，就像一个恶灵。他又两次看到他投掷毁灭性的箭——一次射向鬣狗丹戈，另一次射向猴子马努。每次，动物几乎立即死亡，因为库隆加的毒液非常新鲜，而且非常致命。

Tarzan thought much on this wondrous method of slaying as he swung slowly along at a safe distance behind his quarry. He knew that alone the tiny prick of the arrow could not so quickly dispatch these wild things of the jungle, who were often torn and scratched and gored in a frightful manner as they fought with their jungle neighbors, yet as often recovered as not.
泰山在他的猎物身后的安全距离处缓慢地移动时，对这种奇妙的杀戮方法进行了很多思考。他知道，仅凭箭的微小刺伤无法如此迅速地杀死这些丛林中的野生动物，它们在与丛林邻居战斗时经常被撕裂、抓伤和刺伤，但往往都康复了。

No, there was something mysterious connected with these tiny slivers of wood which could bring death by a mere scratch. He must look into the matter.
不，这些细小的木条有某种神秘的联系，只要轻轻一抓就能致人死亡。他必须调查此事。

That night Kulonga slept in the crotch of a mighty tree and far above him crouched Tarzan of the Apes.
那天晚上，库隆加睡在一棵大树的树叉上，在他上方远方蹲着人猿泰山。

When Kulonga awoke he found that his bow and arrows had disappeared. The black warrior was furious and frightened, but more frightened than furious. He searched the ground below the tree, and he searched the tree above the ground; but there was no sign of either bow or arrows or of the nocturnal marauder.
当库隆加醒来时，他发现自己的弓箭不见了。黑武士又愤怒又害怕，但更多的是害怕而不是愤怒。树下的地他搜遍了，地上的树他也搜遍了。但没有弓箭或夜间掠夺者的迹象。

Kulonga was panic-stricken. His spear he had hurled at Kala and had not recovered; and, now that his bow and arrows were gone, he was defenseless except for a single knife. His only hope lay in reaching the village of Mbonga as quickly as his legs would carry him.
库隆加惊慌失措。他向卡拉扔出的长矛尚未收回。现在他的弓箭都没有了，除了一把刀之外，他毫无防御能力。他唯一的希望就是尽快到达姆邦加村。

That he was not far from home he was certain, so he took the trail at a rapid trot.
他确信自己离家不远，于是他快步走上小路。

From a great mass of impenetrable foliage a few yards away emerged Tarzan of the Apes to swing quietly in his wake.
几码外，人猿泰山从一大片无法穿透的树叶中出现，静静地跟在他身后摇摆。

Kulonga’s bow and arrows were securely tied high in the top of a giant tree from which a patch of bark had been removed by a sharp knife near to the ground, and a branch half cut through and left hanging about fifty feet higher up. Thus Tarzan blazed the forest trails and marked his caches.
库隆加的弓和箭被牢固地绑在一棵巨树的树顶上，靠近地面的地方，有一把锋利的刀子从树上剥下了一块树皮，一根树枝被砍断了一半，悬挂在大约五十英尺高的地方。就这样，泰山开辟了森林小径并标记了他的藏身处。

As Kulonga continued his journey Tarzan closed on him until he traveled almost over the black’s head. His rope he now held coiled in his right hand; he was almost ready for the kill.
当库隆加继续他的旅程时，泰山逼近了他，直到他几乎越过黑人的头顶。他的绳子现在盘绕在右手上；他几乎已经做好了杀人的准备。

The moment was delayed only because Tarzan was anxious to ascertain the black warrior’s destination, and presently he was rewarded, for they came suddenly in view of a great clearing, at one end of which lay many strange lairs.
这一刻被推迟只是因为泰山急于确定黑武士的目的地，不久他就得到了回报，因为他们突然来到了一大片空地，空地的一端有许多奇怪的巢穴。

Tarzan was directly over Kulonga, as he made the discovery. The forest ended abruptly and beyond lay two hundred yards of planted fields between the jungle and the village.
当泰山发现时，他就在库隆加的正上方。森林突然消失了，丛林和村庄之间有两百码的种植田。

Tarzan must act quickly or his prey would be gone; but Tarzan’s life training left so little space between decision and action when an emergency confronted him that there was not even room for the shadow of a thought between.
泰山必须迅速采取行动，否则他的猎物就会消失；但泰山的生活训练在他遇到紧急情况时，在决定和行动之间留下的空间是如此之小，以至于在他之间甚至没有思考的余地。

So it was that as Kulonga emerged from the shadow of the jungle a slender coil of rope sped sinuously above him from the lowest branch of a mighty tree directly upon the edge of the fields of Mbonga, and ere the king’s son had taken a half dozen steps into the clearing a quick noose tightened about his neck.
因此，当库隆加从丛林的阴影中出现时，一卷细长的绳索从姆邦加田野边缘一棵大树的最低树枝上蜿蜒地在他上方蜿蜒而过，国王的儿子还没来得及带走六根绳子。走进空地，一根快速绞索勒紧了他的脖子。

So quickly did Tarzan of the Apes drag back his prey that Kulonga’s cry of alarm was throttled in his windpipe. Hand over hand Tarzan drew the struggling black until he had him hanging by his neck in mid-air; then Tarzan climbed to a larger branch drawing the still threshing victim well up into the sheltering verdure of the tree.
人猿泰山如此之快地拖回了他的猎物，库隆加的惊呼声被他的气管窒息了。泰山一手一手地画着挣扎着的黑色，直到他将他挂在半空中；然后泰山爬到一根更大的树枝上，把仍在打谷的受害者拉到树荫下。

Here he fastened the rope securely to a stout branch, and then, descending, plunged his hunting knife into Kulonga’s heart. Kala was avenged.
在这里，他将绳子牢固地固定在一根粗壮的树枝上，然后下降，将猎刀插入库隆加的心脏。卡拉被报仇了。

Tarzan examined the black minutely, for he had never seen any other human being. The knife with its sheath and belt caught his eye; he appropriated them. A copper anklet also took his fancy, and this he transferred to his own leg.
泰山仔细地审视着这个黑人，因为他从未见过任何其他人类。那把带有刀鞘和腰带的刀引起了他的注意。他侵占了它们。他还看中了一条铜脚链，并把它戴在了自己的腿上。

He examined and admired the tattooing on the forehead and breast. He marveled at the sharp filed teeth. He investigated and appropriated the feathered headdress, and then he prepared to get down to business, for Tarzan of the Apes was hungry, and here was meat; meat of the kill, which jungle ethics permitted him to eat.
他检查并欣赏了前额和胸部的纹身。他对锋利的牙齿感到惊讶。他调查并拿走了羽毛头饰，然后准备开始正题，因为人猿泰山饿了，这里有肉；猎物的肉，丛林道德允许他吃。

How may we judge him, by what standards, this ape-man with the heart and head and body of an English gentleman, and the training of a wild beast?
我们该如何评判他，用什么标准来评判这个有着英国绅士的心脏、头脑和身体，却受到野兽训练的猿人呢？

Tublat, whom he had hated and who had hated him, he had killed in a fair fight, and yet never had the thought of eating Tublat’s flesh entered his head. It could have been as revolting to him as is cannibalism to us.
图布拉特，他曾经恨过的人，也曾恨过他的人，他在一场公平的战斗中杀死了他，但他的脑子里却从未有过吃图布拉特肉的念头。对他来说，这可能就像我们对同类相食一样感到厌恶。

But who was Kulonga that he might not be eaten as fairly as Horta, the boar, or Bara, the deer? Was he not simply another of the countless wild things of the jungle who preyed upon one another to satisfy the cravings of hunger?
但库隆加是谁，他可能不像野猪霍塔或鹿巴拉那样被公平地吃掉？他不就是丛林中无数野兽中的另一种，为了满足饥饿而相互捕食吗？

Suddenly, a strange doubt stayed his hand. Had not his books taught him that he was a man? And was not The Archer a man, also?
突然，他的手上浮现出一种奇怪的疑惑。难道他的书没有告诉他他是一个男人吗？弓箭手不也是个男人吗？

Did men eat men? Alas, he did not know. Why, then, this hesitancy! Once more he essayed the effort, but a qualm of nausea overwhelmed him. He did not understand.
男人吃男人吗？唉，他不知道。那么，为什么还要犹豫呢！他再次尝试了这一努力，但一阵恶心袭上心头。他不明白。

All he knew was that he could not eat the flesh of this black man, and thus hereditary instinct, ages old, usurped the functions of his untaught mind and saved him from transgressing a worldwide law of whose very existence he was ignorant.
他所知道的是，他不能吃这个黑人的肉，因此，古老的遗传本能篡夺了他未受过教育的思想的功能，使他免于违反一项他不知道的世界性法律。

Quickly he lowered Kulonga’s body to the ground, removed the noose, and took to the trees again.
他迅速将库隆加的尸体放倒在地，解开绞索，再次爬上树林。

Chapter 10
第10章


The Fear-Phantom
恐惧幻影

From a lofty perch Tarzan viewed the village of thatched huts across the intervening plantation.
泰山站在高处，俯瞰种植园对面的茅草屋村庄。

He saw that at one point the forest touched the village, and to this spot he made his way, lured by a fever of curiosity to behold animals of his own kind, and to learn more of their ways and view the strange lairs in which they lived.
他看到森林在某个时刻接触到了村庄，在强烈的好奇心的诱惑下，他来到了这个地方，想看看自己同类的动物，更多地了解它们的生活方式，看看它们栖息的奇怪巢穴。住过。

His savage life among the fierce wild brutes of the jungle left no opening for any thought that these could be aught else than enemies. Similarity of form led him into no erroneous conception of the welcome that would be accorded him should he be discovered by these, the first of his own kind he had ever seen.
他在丛林中与凶猛的野兽一起过着野蛮的生活，这让他没有任何机会认为这些人可能是敌人。形状的相似性使他正确地认识到，如果他被这些人发现，他会受到什么样的欢迎，这是他所见过的第一个同类。

Tarzan of the Apes was no sentimentalist. He knew nothing of the brotherhood of man. All things outside his own tribe were his deadly enemies, with the few exceptions of which Tantor, the elephant, was a marked example.
《人猿泰山》并不是多愁善感的人。他对人类的兄弟情谊一无所知。他部落之外的一切事物都是他的死敌，除了少数例外，大象坦托就是一个明显的例子。

And he realized all this without malice or hatred. To kill was the law of the wild world he knew. Few were his primitive pleasures, but the greatest of these was to hunt and kill, and so he accorded to others the right to cherish the same desires as he, even though he himself might be the object of their hunt.
而他意识到这一切，并无恶意或仇恨。杀戮是他所知道的蛮荒世界的法则。他的原始乐趣很少，但其中最大的乐趣就是狩猎和杀戮，因此他赋予其他人怀有与他相同的欲望的权利，尽管他本人可能是他们狩猎的对象。

His strange life had left him neither morose nor bloodthirsty. That he joyed in killing, and that he killed with a joyous laugh upon his handsome lips betokened no innate cruelty. He killed for food most often, but, being a man, he sometimes killed for pleasure, a thing which no other animal does; for it has remained for man alone among all creatures to kill senselessly and wantonly for the mere pleasure of inflicting suffering and death.
奇怪的生活并没有让他变得忧郁或嗜血。他以杀戮为乐，他英俊的嘴唇上带着欢乐的笑声杀人，这并不表明他天生残忍。他经常为了食物而杀人，但作为一个人，他有时也会为了快乐而杀人，这是其他动物所不做的；因为在所有生物中，只有人类才为了仅仅为了获得痛苦和死亡的乐趣而毫无意义地、肆意地杀戮。

And when he killed for revenge, or in self-defense, he did that also without hysteria, for it was a very businesslike proceeding which admitted of no levity.
当他为了复仇或自卫而杀人时，他也没有歇斯底里，因为这是一个非常公事公办的程序，不容轻率。

So it was that now, as he cautiously approached the village of Mbonga, he was quite prepared either to kill or be killed should he be discovered. He proceeded with unwonted stealth, for Kulonga had taught him great respect for the little sharp splinters of wood which dealt death so swiftly and unerringly.
所以现在，当他小心翼翼地接近姆邦加村时，他做好了一旦被发现就要么杀人，要么被杀的准备。他以不寻常的秘密行动进行，因为库隆加教会了他对那些锋利的小木片的极大尊重，因为它们能够如此迅速而准确地造成死亡。

At length he came to a great tree, heavy laden with thick foliage and loaded with pendant loops of giant creepers. From this almost impenetrable bower above the village he crouched, looking down upon the scene below him, wondering over every feature of this new, strange life.
最后，他来到了一棵大树前，树上长满了茂密的树叶，上面挂满了巨大的爬山虎。他蹲在村庄上方这个几乎无法穿透的凉亭里，俯视着脚下的景色，对这种新奇生活的每一个特征感到好奇。

There were naked children running and playing in the village street. There were women grinding dried plantain in crude stone mortars, while others were fashioning cakes from the powdered flour. Out in the fields he could see still other women hoeing, weeding, or gathering.
村里的街道上，赤身裸体的孩子们奔跑玩耍。一些妇女在粗糙的石臼中研磨干车前草，而另一些妇女则用面粉制作蛋糕。在田野里，他还能看到其他妇女正在锄地、除草或采集食物。

All wore strange protruding girdles of dried grass about their hips and many were loaded with brass and copper anklets, armlets and bracelets. Around many a dusky neck hung curiously coiled strands of wire, while several were further ornamented by huge nose rings.
他们的臀部都穿着奇怪的突出的干草腰带，许多人都戴着黄铜和铜脚镯、臂章和手镯。许多昏暗的脖子上都挂着奇怪的盘绕线，还有一些还装饰着巨大的鼻环。

Tarzan of the Apes looked with growing wonder at these strange creatures. Dozing in the shade he saw several men, while at the extreme outskirts of the clearing he occasionally caught glimpses of armed warriors apparently guarding the village against surprise from an attacking enemy.
人猿泰山越来越好奇地看着这些奇怪的生物。他在树荫下打瞌睡，看到几个男人，而在空地的最外围，他偶尔瞥见武装战士，显然正在守卫村庄，以防敌人袭击。

He noticed that the women alone worked. Nowhere was there evidence of a man tilling the fields or performing any of the homely duties of the village.
他注意到只有女人在工作。没有任何证据表明有人耕田或从事村里的任何家务活。

Finally his eyes rested upon a woman directly beneath him.
最后，他的目光落在了他正下方的一个女人身上。

Before her was a small cauldron standing over a low fire and in it bubbled a thick, reddish, tarry mass. On one side of her lay a quantity of wooden arrows the points of which she dipped into the seething substance, then laying them upon a narrow rack of boughs which stood upon her other side.
她面前有一个小坩锅，立在小火上，锅里冒着厚厚的、微红色的柏油状物质。她的一侧放着一些木箭，她将箭尖浸入沸腾的物质中，然后将它们放在另一侧的狭窄树枝架上。

Tarzan of the Apes was fascinated. Here was the secret of the terrible destructiveness of The Archer’s tiny missiles. He noted the extreme care which the woman took that none of the matter should touch her hands, and once when a particle spattered upon one of her fingers he saw her plunge the member into a vessel of water and quickly rub the tiny stain away with a handful of leaves.
人猿泰山很着迷。这就是弓箭手微型导弹具有可怕破坏力的秘密。他注意到这位女士非常小心，不让任何东西接触到她的手，有一次，当一个颗粒溅到她的一根手指上时，他看到她将其放入盛有水的容器中，并迅速用抹布擦掉微小的污渍。一把叶子。

Tarzan knew nothing of poison, but his shrewd reasoning told him that it was this deadly stuff that killed, and not the little arrow, which was merely the messenger that carried it into the body of its victim.
泰山对毒一无所知，但他精明的推理告诉他，杀人的是这种致命的东西，而不是那支小箭，它只是把它带入受害者体内的信使。

How he should like to have more of those little death-dealing slivers. If the woman would only leave her work for an instant he could drop down, gather up a handful, and be back in the tree again before she drew three breaths.
他多么希望能拥有更多这些致命的小碎片啊。如果那个女人只暂时离开她的工作，他就可以下来，抓起一把，然后在她吸了三口气之前再次回到树上。

As he was trying to think out some plan to distract her attention he heard a wild cry from across the clearing. He looked and saw a black warrior standing beneath the very tree in which he had killed the murderer of Kala an hour before.
当他试图想出一些办法来分散她的注意力时，他听到空地对面传来一阵疯狂的叫喊声。他看了看，看到一个黑人武士站在一棵树下，一小时前他就是在这棵树上杀死了卡拉的凶手的。

The fellow was shouting and waving his spear above his head. Now and again he would point to something on the ground before him.
那家伙大喊着，将长矛举过头顶挥舞着。他时不时地指着他面前地上的什么东西。

The village was in an uproar instantly. Armed men rushed from the interior of many a hut and raced madly across the clearing toward the excited sentry. After them trooped the old men, and the women and children until, in a moment, the village was deserted.
村里顿时一片哗然。武装人员从许多小屋的内部冲出来，疯狂地穿过空地，冲向兴奋的哨兵。他们后面跟着老人、妇女和儿童，直到刹那间，村子里空无一人。

Tarzan of the Apes knew that they had found the body of his victim, but that interested him far less than the fact that no one remained in the village to prevent his taking a supply of the arrows which lay below him.
人猿泰山知道他们已经找到了受害者的尸体，但这远不如村子里没有人阻止他取走下方的箭这一事实更让他感兴趣。

Quickly and noiselessly he dropped to the ground beside the cauldron of poison. For a moment he stood motionless, his quick, bright eyes scanning the interior of the palisade.
他迅速无声地倒在毒锅旁边的地上。他一动不动地站了一会儿，用他敏捷而明亮的眼睛扫视着栅栏的内部。

No one was in sight. His eyes rested upon the open doorway of a nearby hut. He would take a look within, thought Tarzan, and so, cautiously, he approached the low thatched building.
看不见任何人。他的目光落在附近一间小屋敞开的门口上。泰山想，他要看看里面，于是他小心翼翼地走近那座低矮的茅草屋。

For a moment he stood without, listening intently. There was no sound, and he glided into the semi-darkness of the interior.
他在外面站了一会儿，专心地听着。没有任何声音，他滑入半暗的室内。

Weapons hung against the walls—long spears, strangely shaped knives, a couple of narrow shields. In the center of the room was a cooking pot, and at the far end a litter of dry grasses covered by woven mats which evidently served the owners as beds and bedding. Several human skulls lay upon the floor.
墙上挂着武器——长矛、形状奇怪的刀、几把窄盾。房间中央有一个煮锅，远端有一堆干草，上面覆盖着编织垫，显然是主人用作床和被褥的。地板上躺着几颗人类头骨。

Tarzan of the Apes felt of each article, hefted the spears, smelled of them, for he ‘saw’ largely through his sensitive and highly trained nostrils. He determined to own one of these long, pointed sticks, but he could not take one on this trip because of the arrows he meant to carry.
人猿泰山摸着每一件物品，举起长矛，闻着它们的味道，因为他很大程度上是通过他敏感且训练有素的鼻孔“看到”的。他决定拥有一根这些又长又尖的棍子，但由于他要携带箭，所以这次旅行他不能带一根。

As he took each article from the walls, he placed it in a pile in the center of the room. On top of all he placed the cooking pot, inverted, and on top of this he laid one of the grinning skulls, upon which he fastened the headdress of the dead Kulonga.
当他从墙上取下每件物品时，他把它们堆放在房间中央。最上面他放了一个煮锅，倒过来，在上面放了一个咧着嘴笑的头骨，上面系着死去的库隆加的头饰。

Then he stood back, surveyed his work, and grinned. Tarzan of the Apes enjoyed a joke.
然后他退后一步，审视着自己的作品，笑了。 《人猿泰山》很喜欢开玩笑。

But now he heard, outside, the sounds of many voices, and long mournful howls, and mighty wailing. He was startled. Had he remained too long? Quickly he reached the doorway and peered down the village street toward the village gate.
但现在他听到外面有许多人的声音，还有长长的哀号和强烈的哀号。他吓了一跳。他是不是呆得太久了？他很快就到了门口，沿着村街向村门望去。

The natives were not yet in sight, though he could plainly hear them approaching across the plantation. They must be very near.
还没有看到当地人，但他能清楚地听到他们穿过种植园的声音。他们一定很近。

Like a flash he sprang across the opening to the pile of arrows. Gathering up all he could carry under one arm, he overturned the seething cauldron with a kick, and disappeared into the foliage above just as the first of the returning natives entered the gate at the far end of the village street. Then he turned to watch the proceeding below, poised like some wild bird ready to take swift wing at the first sign of danger.
他闪电般地从箭堆的开口处跳了过去。他把能抱起的所有东西都集中到一只手臂下，一脚踢翻了沸腾的大锅，消失在上方的树叶中，此时第一个返回的当地人进入了村街尽头的大门。然后他转过身来观看下面的进展，就像一只野鸟准备在第一个危险迹象时迅速振翅。

The natives filed up the street, four of them bearing the dead body of Kulonga. Behind trailed the women, uttering strange cries and weird lamentation. On they came to the portals of Kulonga’s hut, the very one in which Tarzan had wrought his depredations.
当地人在街上鱼贯而行，其中四人抬着库隆加的尸体。后面跟着女人，发出奇怪的叫声和奇怪的哀叹。他们来到了库隆加小屋的大门前，泰山正是在这个小屋里进行了掠夺。

Scarcely had half a dozen entered the building ere they came rushing out in wild, jabbering confusion. The others hastened to gather about. There was much excited gesticulating, pointing, and chattering; then several of the warriors approached and peered within.
六个人刚进入大楼，就疯狂地、叽叽喳喳地混乱地冲了出去。其他人赶紧围拢过来。大家兴奋地打手势、指指点点、喋喋不休。然后几个武士走近并朝里面张望。

Finally an old fellow with many ornaments of metal about his arms and legs, and a necklace of dried human hands depending upon his chest, entered the hut.
最后，一个老家伙走进了小屋，他的胳膊和腿上戴着许多金属饰物，胸前挂着一条干人手项链。

It was Mbonga, the king, father of Kulonga.
那是姆邦加（Mbonga）国王，库隆加（Kulonga）的父亲。

For a few moments all was silent. Then Mbonga emerged, a look of mingled wrath and superstitious fear writ upon his hideous countenance. He spoke a few words to the assembled warriors, and in an instant the men were flying through the little village searching minutely every hut and corner within the palisades.
有那么一会儿，一切都静悄悄的。然后姆邦加出现了，他那张丑陋的脸上写满了愤怒和迷信的恐惧。他对聚集的战士们说了几句话，立刻，这些人就飞过这个小村庄，仔细地搜索栅栏内的每一个小屋和角落。

Scarcely had the search commenced than the overturned cauldron was discovered, and with it the theft of the poisoned arrows. Nothing more they found, and it was a thoroughly awed and frightened group of savages which huddled around their king a few moments later.
搜查刚开始，就发现了翻倒的大锅，毒箭也随之被盗。他们什么也没发现，几分钟后，一群充满敬畏和恐惧的野蛮人挤在他们的国王周围。

Mbonga could explain nothing of the strange events that had taken place. The finding of the still warm body of Kulonga—on the very verge of their fields and within easy earshot of the village—knifed and stripped at the door of his father’s home, was in itself sufficiently mysterious, but these last awesome discoveries within the village, within the dead Kulonga’s own hut, filled their hearts with dismay, and conjured in their poor brains only the most frightful of superstitious explanations.
姆邦加无法解释所发生的奇怪事件。在他父亲家门口发现库隆加仍然温暖的尸体——就在他们的田地边缘，距离村庄很容易听到——被刀砍并被剥光，这本身就足够神秘了，但村里最后的这些令人敬畏的发现在死去的库隆加自己的小屋里，他们的心中充满了沮丧，在他们可怜的大脑中只能召唤出最可怕的迷信解释。

They stood in little groups, talking in low tones, and ever casting affrighted glances behind them from their great rolling eyes.
他们三五成群地站着，低声交谈，转动着的大眼睛不断向身后投来惊恐的目光。

Tarzan of the Apes watched them for a while from his lofty perch in the great tree. There was much in their demeanor which he could not understand, for of superstition he was ignorant, and of fear of any kind he had but a vague conception.
人猿泰山在大树的高处观察了他们一会儿。他们的举止中有很多他无法理解的地方，因为他对迷信一无所知，对任何形式的恐惧他也只有一个模糊的概念。

The sun was high in the heavens. Tarzan had not broken fast this day, and it was many miles to where lay the toothsome remains of Horta the boar.
太阳高高挂在天上。泰山今天还没有开斋，距离野猪奥尔塔的牙齿残骸还有很多英里。

So he turned his back upon the village of Mbonga and melted away into the leafy fastness of the forest.
于是他转身背对姆邦加村，消失在茂密的森林中。

Chapter 11
第11章


‘King of the Apes”
“猿猴之王”

It was not yet dark when he reached the tribe, though he stopped to exhume and devour the remains of the wild boar he had cached the preceding day, and again to take Kulonga’s bow and arrows from the tree top in which he had hidden them.
当他到达部落时，天还没有黑，但他停下来挖掘并吞掉了前一天藏匿的野猪的残骸，并再次从树顶上取出了库隆加的弓箭。

It was a well-laden Tarzan who dropped from the branches into the midst of the tribe of Kerchak.
那是一头满载的人猿泰山，从树枝上掉到了克尔恰克部落的中间。

With swelling chest he narrated the glories of his adventure and exhibited the spoils of conquest.
他挺起胸膛讲述了他冒险的辉煌，展示了征服的战利品。

Kerchak grunted and turned away, for he was jealous of this strange member of his band. In his little evil brain he sought for some excuse to wreak his hatred upon Tarzan.
克恰克咕哝了一声，转身走开，因为他嫉妒乐队中这个奇怪的成员。他在他邪恶的小脑袋里寻找一些借口来向泰山发泄他的仇恨。

The next day Tarzan was practicing with his bow and arrows at the first gleam of dawn. At first he lost nearly every bolt he shot, but finally he learned to guide the little shafts with fair accuracy, and ere a month had passed he was no mean shot; but his proficiency had cost him nearly his entire supply of arrows.
第二天，黎明时分，泰山就开始练习弓箭。起初，他几乎失去了射出的每一根箭，但最终他学会了相当准确地引导小箭杆，不到一个月，他就不再是一个弱枪手了；但他的熟练程度几乎耗尽了他所有的箭。

The tribe continued to find the hunting good in the vicinity of the beach, and so Tarzan of the Apes varied his archery practice with further investigation of his father’s choice though little store of books.
部落继续在海滩附近寻找狩猎的好去处，因此人猿泰山改变了他的射箭练习，通过进一步调查他父亲的选择，尽管书籍很少。

It was during this period that the young English lord found hidden in the back of one of the cupboards in the cabin a small metal box. The key was in the lock, and a few moments of investigation and experimentation were rewarded with the successful opening of the receptacle.
正是在这个时期，年轻的英国勋爵在船舱的一个橱柜后面发现了一个小金属盒子。钥匙在锁里，经过一些时间的调查和实验，成功打开了容器。

In it he found a faded photograph of a smooth faced young man, a golden locket studded with diamonds, linked to a small gold chain, a few letters and a small book.
他在里面发现了一张褪色的照片，照片上是一个面容光滑的年轻人，一个镶满钻石的金色挂坠盒，挂着一条小金链，几封信和一本小书。

Tarzan examined these all minutely.
泰山仔细地检查了这一切。

The photograph he liked most of all, for the eyes were smiling, and the face was open and frank. It was his father.
他最喜欢这张照片，因为他的眼睛在微笑，脸上坦率而坦率。那是他的父亲。

The locket, too, took his fancy, and he placed the chain about his neck in imitation of the ornamentation he had seen to be so common among the black men he had visited. The brilliant stones gleamed strangely against his smooth, brown hide.
挂坠盒也引起了他的兴趣，他把链子挂在脖子上，模仿他所拜访的黑人中常见的装饰。明亮的宝石在他光滑的棕色皮肤的衬托下闪闪发光。

The letters he could scarcely decipher for he had learned little or nothing of script, so he put them back in the box with the photograph and turned his attention to the book.
他几乎无法辨认这些字母，因为他对文字学得很少，甚至根本没有学过，所以他把它们放回装有照片的盒子里，然后把注意力转向了书。

This was almost entirely filled with fine script, but while the little bugs were all familiar to him, their arrangement and the combinations in which they occurred were strange, and entirely incomprehensible.
这几乎全是精美的剧本，但那些小虫子虽然他都熟悉，但它们的排列和出现的组合却很奇怪，完全无法理解。

Tarzan had long since learned the use of the dictionary, but much to his sorrow and perplexity it proved of no avail to him in this emergency. Not a word of all that was writ in the book could he find, and so he put it back in the metal box, but with a determination to work out the mysteries of it later on.
泰山早已学会了字典的用法，但令他悲伤和困惑的是，在这种紧急情况下，字典对他毫无用处。他在书中找不到一个字，所以他把它放回金属盒子里，但决心稍后解开其中的奥秘。

Little did he know that this book held between its covers the key to his origin—the answer to the strange riddle of his strange life. It was the diary of John Clayton, Lord Greystoke—kept in French, as had always been his custom.
他几乎不知道这本书的封面之间隐藏着他的起源的钥匙——他奇怪的生活中奇怪谜语的答案。这是格雷斯托克勋爵约翰·克莱顿的日记——按照他一贯的习惯，用法语保存。

Tarzan replaced the box in the cupboard, but always thereafter he carried the features of the strong, smiling face of his father in his heart, and in his head a fixed determination to solve the mystery of the strange words in the little black book.
泰山把盒子放回柜子里，但此后他的心里始终保留着父亲那张坚强、微笑的脸，他的脑海里始终下定决心要解开那本黑色小书里的奇怪文字之谜。

At present he had more important business in hand, for his supply of arrows was exhausted, and he must needs journey to the black men’s village and renew it.
现在他还有更重要的事情要做，因为他的箭已经用完了，他必须前往黑人的村庄去补充。

Early the following morning he set out, and, traveling rapidly, he came before midday to the clearing. Once more he took up his position in the great tree, and, as before, he saw the women in the fields and the village street, and the cauldron of bubbling poison directly beneath him.
第二天一早，他就出发了，行进很快，中午之前就来到了空地。他再次在大树上占据了自己的位置，和以前一样，他看到了田野和村庄街道上的妇女，以及正下方的冒着气泡的毒药的大锅。

For hours he lay awaiting his opportunity to drop down unseen and gather up the arrows for which he had come; but nothing now occurred to call the villagers away from their homes. The day wore on, and still Tarzan of the Apes crouched above the unsuspecting woman at the cauldron.
他躺了好几个小时，等待着一个机会，不被发现地蹲下来，收集他来是为了拿的箭。但现在没有发生任何事情让村民们离开家园。日子一天天过去，人猿泰山仍然蹲在大锅旁毫无戒心的女人上方。

Presently the workers in the fields returned. The hunting warriors emerged from the forest, and when all were within the palisade the gates were closed and barred.
不一会儿，地里的工人就回来了。狩猎战士们从森林中出现，当所有人都进入栅栏之内时，大门就关闭了。

Many cooking pots were now in evidence about the village. Before each hut a woman presided over a boiling stew, while little cakes of plantain, and cassava puddings were to be seen on every hand.
村子里现在有许多炊具。每个小屋前都有一位妇女主持煮沸的炖菜，每个人手上都可以看到车前草小蛋糕和木薯布丁。

Suddenly there came a hail from the edge of the clearing.
突然，空地边缘传来一阵冰雹。

Tarzan looked.
泰山看了看。

It was a party of belated hunters returning from the north, and among them they half led, half carried a struggling animal.
这是一群从北方归来的迟来的猎人，他们中间一半是领路，一半是驮着一只正在挣扎的动物。

As they approached the village the gates were thrown open to admit them, and then, as the people saw the victim of the chase, a savage cry rose to the heavens, for the quarry was a man.
当他们接近村庄时，大门打开让他们进来，然后，当人们看到追逐的受害者时，一声野蛮的呼喊响彻天空，因为猎物是一个男人。

As he was dragged, still resisting, into the village street, the women and children set upon him with sticks and stones, and Tarzan of the Apes, young and savage beast of the jungle, wondered at the cruel brutality of his own kind.
当他仍在抵抗的情况下被拖到村里的街道上时，妇女和儿童用棍棒和石头攻击他，而猿人泰山，年轻而野蛮的丛林野兽，对自己同类的残酷行为感到惊讶。

Sheeta, the leopard, alone of all the jungle folk, tortured his prey. The ethics of all the others meted a quick and merciful death to their victims.
豹子希达（Sheeta）是所有丛林动物中唯一折磨猎物的动物。所有其他人的道德观都让受害者迅速而仁慈地死去。

Tarzan had learned from his books but scattered fragments of the ways of human beings.
泰山从他的书中学到了人类之道的碎片。

When he had followed Kulonga through the forest he had expected to come to a city of strange houses on wheels, puffing clouds of black smoke from a huge tree stuck in the roof of one of them—or to a sea covered with mighty floating buildings which he had learned were called, variously, ships and boats and steamers and craft.
当他跟随库隆加穿过森林时，他原以为会来到一座由轮子上的奇怪房屋组成的城市，其中一栋屋顶上插着一棵大树，冒着黑烟——或者是一片布满巨大漂浮建筑物的大海。他了解到船舶、小船、汽船和工艺船有不同的称呼。

He had been sorely disappointed with the poor little village of the blacks, hidden away in his own jungle, and with not a single house as large as his own cabin upon the distant beach.
他对这个贫穷的黑人小村庄感到非常失望，这个村庄隐藏在他自己的丛林中，在遥远的海滩上没有一栋房子像他自己的小屋一样大。

He saw that these people were more wicked than his own apes, and as savage and cruel as Sabor, herself. Tarzan began to hold his own kind in low esteem.
他看到这些人比他自己的猿猴还要邪恶，而且和萨博尔本人一样野蛮和残忍。泰山开始瞧不起自己的同类。

Now they had tied their poor victim to a great post near the center of the village, directly before Mbonga’s hut, and here they formed a dancing, yelling circle of warriors about him, alive with flashing knives and menacing spears.
现在，他们把可怜的受害者绑在村子中心附近的一根大柱子上，就在姆邦加的小屋前面，他们在他周围围成一圈跳舞、喊叫的战士，手里拿着闪闪发光的刀子和威胁性的长矛。

In a larger circle squatted the women, yelling and beating upon drums. It reminded Tarzan of the Dum-Dum, and so he knew what to expect. He wondered if they would spring upon their meat while it was still alive. The Apes did not do such things as that.
妇女们蹲在一个更大的圈子里，一边喊一边敲鼓。这让泰山想起了达姆达姆，所以他知道会发生什么。他想知道它们是否会在肉还活着的时候扑向它们。类人猿不会做那样的事。

The circle of warriors about the cringing captive drew closer and closer to their prey as they danced in wild and savage abandon to the maddening music of the drums. Presently a spear reached out and pricked the victim. It was the signal for fifty others.
围在畏缩的俘虏周围的战士们随着令人发狂的鼓声狂野而野蛮地跳舞，离他们的猎物越来越近。不久，一根长矛伸出来，刺伤了受害者。这是另外五十个人的信号。

Eyes, ears, arms and legs were pierced; every inch of the poor writhing body that did not cover a vital organ became the target of the cruel lancers.
眼睛、耳朵、手臂和腿都被刺穿；可怜的扭动着的身体，每一寸没有覆盖重要器官的地方，都成为了残酷的枪骑兵的目标。

The women and children shrieked their delight.
妇女和儿童高兴地尖叫起来。

The warriors licked their hideous lips in anticipation of the feast to come, and vied with one another in the savagery and loathsomeness of the cruel indignities with which they tortured the still conscious prisoner.
战士们舔着他们丑陋的嘴唇，期待着即将到来的盛宴，并互相争先恐后地残酷侮辱，折磨仍然有意识的囚犯。

Then it was that Tarzan of the Apes saw his chance. All eyes were fixed upon the thrilling spectacle at the stake. The light of day had given place to the darkness of a moonless night, and only the fires in the immediate vicinity of the orgy had been kept alight to cast a restless glow upon the restless scene.
然后，人猿泰山看到了他的机会。所有的目光都集中在火刑柱上的惊心动魄的场面上。白昼的光亮已经被无月之夜的黑暗所取代，只有狂欢场附近的篝火还亮着，为这不安宁的场景投下不安的光芒。

Gently the lithe boy dropped to the soft earth at the end of the village street. Quickly he gathered up the arrows—all of them this time, for he had brought a number of long fibers to bind them into a bundle.
轻盈的男孩轻轻地落在村街尽头松软的土地上。他很快就把箭收了起来——这次是全部，因为他带了一些长纤维来把它们绑成一捆。

Without haste he wrapped them securely, and then, ere he turned to leave, the devil of capriciousness entered his heart. He looked about for some hint of a wild prank to play upon these strange, grotesque creatures that they might be again aware of his presence among them.
他不慌不忙地将它们包裹得严严实实，然后，在他转身离开之前，任性的魔鬼就进入了他的内心。他四处寻找一些荒唐的恶作剧的迹象，以便对这些奇怪、怪诞的生物进行恶作剧，以便它们再次意识到他的存在。

Dropping his bundle of arrows at the foot of the tree, Tarzan crept among the shadows at the side of the street until he came to the same hut he had entered on the occasion of his first visit.
泰山把一捆箭扔在树下，在街边的阴影中爬行，直到来到他第一次来时进入的那间小屋。

Inside all was darkness, but his groping hands soon found the object for which he sought, and without further delay he turned again toward the door.
里面一片漆黑，但他摸索的双手很快就找到了他要找的东西，不再耽搁，他再次转向门口。

He had taken but a step, however, ere his quick ear caught the sound of approaching footsteps immediately without. In another instant the figure of a woman darkened the entrance of the hut.
然而，他才迈出了一步，敏锐的耳朵就立即听到了外面接近的脚步声。转眼间，小屋门口出现了一个女人的身影。

Tarzan drew back silently to the far wall, and his hand sought the long, keen hunting knife of his father. The woman came quickly to the center of the hut. There she paused for an instant feeling about with her hands for the thing she sought. Evidently it was not in its accustomed place, for she explored ever nearer and nearer the wall where Tarzan stood.
泰山默默地退到远处的墙上，他的手寻找着他父亲那把又长又锋利的猎刀。女子很快就来到了小屋的中央。她停了下来，用手摸索着寻找她要找的东西。显然它不在原来的位置，因为她探索得越来越靠近泰山站立的墙壁。

So close was she now that the ape-man felt the animal warmth of her naked body. Up went the hunting knife, and then the woman turned to one side and soon a guttural ‘ah’ proclaimed that her search had at last been successful.
她现在离得如此之近，猿人感受到了她赤裸身体的动物般的温暖。猎刀举了起来，然后女人转向一侧，很快喉咙里发出一声“啊”的声音，宣告她的搜寻终于成功了。

Immediately she turned and left the hut, and as she passed through the doorway Tarzan saw that she carried a cooking pot in her hand.
她立即​​转身离开了小屋，当她穿过门口时，泰山看到她手里拿着一个煮锅。

He followed closely after her, and as he reconnoitered from the shadows of the doorway he saw that all the women of the village were hastening to and from the various huts with pots and kettles. These they were filling with water and placing over a number of fires near the stake where the dying victim now hung, an inert and bloody mass of suffering.
他紧紧地跟在她身后，从门口的阴影里窥探，只见村里的妇女们都拿着锅碗瓢盆，匆匆忙忙地从各个小屋里走来走去。他们把这些东西装满水，并在木桩附近点燃了一些火，那里挂着垂死的受害者，一团惰性而血腥的痛苦。

Choosing a moment when none seemed near, Tarzan hastened to his bundle of arrows beneath the great tree at the end of the village street. As on the former occasion he overthrew the cauldron before leaping, sinuous and catlike, into the lower branches of the forest giant.
泰山选择了一个似乎无人在附近的时刻，匆匆走向村街尽头那棵大树下的那捆箭。和上次一样，他推翻了大锅，然后像猫一样蜿蜒地跳进了森林巨人较低的树枝上。

Silently he climbed to a great height until he found a point where he could look through a leafy opening upon the scene beneath him.
他默默地爬到很高的地方，直到找到一个可以透过绿树成荫的开口看到下面景色的地方。

The women were now preparing the prisoner for their cooking pots, while the men stood about resting after the fatigue of their mad revel. Comparative quiet reigned in the village.
女人们正在为囚犯准备锅，而男人们则在疯狂狂欢的疲劳后站着休息。村子里比较安静。

Tarzan raised aloft the thing he had pilfered from the hut, and, with aim made true by years of fruit and coconut throwing, launched it toward the group of savages.
泰山高举起他从小屋里偷来的东西，多年投掷水果和椰子所实现的目标，把它扔向了这群野蛮人。

Squarely among them it fell, striking one of the warriors full upon the head and felling him to the ground. Then it rolled among the women and stopped beside the half-butchered thing they were preparing to feast upon.
它正好落在他们中间，击中了一名战士的头部，把他摔倒在地。然后它在妇女们中间滚来滚去，停在她们准备享用的半宰杀的东西旁边。

All gazed in consternation at it for an instant, and then, with one accord, broke and ran for their huts.
所有人都惊愕地注视着它一瞬间，然后异口同声地冲向自己的小屋。

It was a grinning human skull which looked up at them from the ground. The dropping of the thing out of the open sky was a miracle well aimed to work upon their superstitious fears.
那是一个咧着嘴笑的人类头骨，从地上抬头看着他们。这个东西从露天坠落是一个奇迹，旨在消除他们迷信的恐惧。

Thus Tarzan of the Apes left them filled with terror at this new manifestation of the presence of some unseen and unearthly evil power which lurked in the forest about their village.
因此，人猿泰山让他们对潜伏在村庄周围森林中的某种看不见的、超凡的邪恶力量的新表现感到充满恐惧。

Later, when they discovered the overturned cauldron, and that once more their arrows had been pilfered, it commenced to dawn upon them that they had offended some great god by placing their village in this part of the jungle without propitiating him. From then on an offering of food was daily placed below the great tree from whence the arrows had disappeared in an effort to conciliate the mighty one.
后来，当他们发现翻倒的大锅，他们的箭再次被偷时，他们开始意识到，他们把自己的村庄放在丛林的这一部分，却没有安抚他，冒犯了一位伟大的神。从那时起，每天都会在箭头消失的大树下放置食物，以安抚强大的箭头。

But the seed of fear was deep sown, and had he but known it, Tarzan of the Apes had laid the foundation for much future misery for himself and his tribe.
但恐惧的种子已经深深地种下了，如果他知道这一点，人猿泰山就为他自己和他的部落未来的苦难奠定了基础。

That night he slept in the forest not far from the village, and early the next morning set out slowly on his homeward march, hunting as he traveled. Only a few berries and an occasional grub worm rewarded his search, and he was half famished when, looking up from a log he had been rooting beneath, he saw Sabor, the lioness, standing in the center of the trail not twenty paces from him.
那天晚上，他睡在离村子不远的森林里，第二天一大早，他就慢慢踏上归途，边走边打猎。他的搜寻只得到了一些浆果和偶尔的幼虫，当他从一直在下面翻土的圆木上抬起头来时，他已经快饿死了，他看到母狮萨博尔站在距离他不到二十步的小路中央。

The great yellow eyes were fixed upon him with a wicked and baleful gleam, and the red tongue licked the longing lips as Sabor crouched, worming her stealthy way with belly flattened against the earth.
黄色的大眼睛闪烁着邪恶而恶毒的光芒，红色的舌头舔着渴望的嘴唇，萨博蹲下身子，腹部贴在地面上，悄悄地走着。

Tarzan did not attempt to escape. He welcomed the opportunity for which, in fact, he had been searching for days past, now that he was armed with something more than a rope of grass.
泰山并没有试图逃跑。他很高兴有这个机会，事实上，他几天来一直在寻找这个机会，现在他的武器不仅仅是一根草绳。

Quickly he unslung his bow and fitted a well-daubed arrow, and as Sabor sprang, the tiny missile leaped to meet her in mid-air. At the same instant Tarzan of the Apes jumped to one side, and as the great cat struck the ground beyond him another death-tipped arrow sunk deep into Sabor’s loin.
他迅速解开弓，装上一支精心涂抹的箭，当萨博尔跳起时，那枚小小的导弹跳到了半空中与她相遇。与此同时，人猿泰山跳到了一边，当这只巨猫击中他身后的地面时，另一支致命的箭深深地刺入了萨博尔的腰部。

With a mighty roar the beast turned and charged once more, only to be met with a third arrow full in one eye; but this time she was too close to the ape-man for the latter to sidestep the onrushing body.
巨兽发出一声巨吼，转身再次冲锋，却被第三支箭射中了一只眼睛；但这一次她离猿人太近了，猿人根本无法避开冲过来的尸体。

Tarzan of the Apes went down beneath the great body of his enemy, but with gleaming knife drawn and striking home. For a moment they lay there, and then Tarzan realized that the inert mass lying upon him was beyond power ever again to injure man or ape.
人猿泰山倒在了敌人巨大的身躯下，但他拔出了闪闪发光的刀，直刺目标。他们躺在那里一会儿，然后泰山意识到躺在他身上的惰性物质已经无力再伤害人类或猿类。

With difficulty he wriggled from beneath the great weight, and as he stood erect and gazed down upon the trophy of his skill, a mighty wave of exultation swept over him.
他费力地从巨大的重量下挣脱出来，当他站直身子，低头凝视着自己的技艺奖杯时，一股强烈的狂喜席卷了他的全身。

With swelling breast, he placed a foot upon the body of his powerful enemy, and throwing back his fine young head, roared out the awful challenge of the victorious bull ape.
他用肿胀的胸膛，把一只脚踩在了强敌的尸体上，仰起他年轻漂亮的脑袋，吼叫着向胜利的牛猿发出可怕的挑战。

The forest echoed to the savage and triumphant paean. Birds fell still, and the larger animals and beasts of prey slunk stealthily away, for few there were of all the jungle who sought for trouble with the great anthropoids.
森林里回荡着野蛮而胜利的赞歌。鸟类一动不动，较大的动物和猛兽则偷偷地溜走，因为整个丛林中很少有人向大型类人猿寻求麻烦。

And in London another Lord Greystoke was speaking to HIS kind in the House of Lords, but none trembled at the sound of his soft voice.
在伦敦，另一位格雷斯托克勋爵正在上议院对他的同类讲话，但没有人因他柔和的声音而颤抖。

Sabor proved unsavory eating even to Tarzan of the Apes, but hunger served as a most efficacious disguise to toughness and rank taste, and ere long, with well-filled stomach, the ape-man was ready to sleep again. First, however, he must remove the hide, for it was as much for this as for any other purpose that he had desired to destroy Sabor.
即使对于《人猿泰山》来说，萨博尔的饮食也很难吃，但饥饿是坚韧和品味的最有效伪装，不久之后，胃部填饱了，猿人又准备睡觉了。然而，首先他必须除去兽皮，因为他想要摧毁 Sabor 的目的与其他目的一样多。

Deftly he removed the great pelt, for he had practiced often on smaller animals. When the task was finished he carried his trophy to the fork of a high tree, and there, curling himself securely in a crotch, he fell into deep and dreamless slumber.
他熟练地去掉了大毛皮，因为他经常在较小的动物身上练习。任务完成后，他把奖杯带到了一棵高树的叉子上，在那里，他把自己安全地蜷缩在胯部里，陷入了无梦的深沉的睡眠中。

What with loss of sleep, arduous exercise, and a full belly, Tarzan of the Apes slept the sun around, awakening about noon of the following day. He straightway repaired to the carcass of Sabor, but was angered to find the bones picked clean by other hungry denizens of the jungle.
由于睡眠不足、剧烈运动和吃得饱饱的，人猿泰山在太阳下睡了一觉，第二天中午才醒来。他立即修复了萨博尔的尸体，但发现骨头被丛林中其他饥饿的居民吃干净了，他感到愤怒。

Half an hour’s leisurely progress through the forest brought to sight a young deer, and before the little creature knew that an enemy was near a tiny arrow had lodged in its neck.
半小时悠闲地穿过森林，看到了一只小鹿，还没等这只小鹿意识到敌人就在附近，一支小箭就插在了它的脖子上。

So quickly the virus worked that at the end of a dozen leaps the deer plunged headlong into the undergrowth, dead. Again did Tarzan feast well, but this time he did not sleep.
病毒传播得如此之快，以至于在十几次跳跃之后，鹿就一头栽进了灌木丛中，死了。泰山再次美餐一顿，但这次他没有睡觉。

Instead, he hastened on toward the point where he had left the tribe, and when he had found them proudly exhibited the skin of Sabor, the lioness.
相反，他急忙朝离开部落的地方走去，当他找到他们时，他自豪地展示了母狮萨博尔的皮肤。

‘Look!’ he cried, ‘Apes of Kerchak. See what Tarzan, the mighty killer, has done. Who else among you has ever killed one of Numa’s people? Tarzan is mightiest amongst you for Tarzan is no ape. Tarzan is—‘ But here he stopped, for in the language of the anthropoids there was no word for man, and Tarzan could only write the word in English; he could not pronounce it.
“看！”他喊道，“克恰克猿。”看看强大的杀手泰山做了什么。你们当中还有谁杀过努玛的人民？泰山是你们之中最强大的，因为泰山不是猿。泰山是——”但说到这里他停了下来，因为在类人猿的语言中没有“人”这个词，而泰山只能用英语写出这个词。他无法发音。

The tribe had gathered about to look upon the proof of his wondrous prowess, and to listen to his words.
部落的人都聚集过来，观看他的非凡能力，聆听他的演讲。

Only Kerchak hung back, nursing his hatred and his rage.
只有克尔恰克退缩了，沉浸在仇恨和愤怒之中。

Suddenly something snapped in the wicked little brain of the anthropoid. With a frightful roar the great beast sprang among the assemblage.
突然，这个类人猿邪恶的小脑袋里有什么东西折断了。伴随着一声可怕的咆哮，巨兽在人群中跳了起来。

Biting, and striking with his huge hands, he killed and maimed a dozen ere the balance could escape to the upper terraces of the forest.
在余下的人逃到森林的上层梯田之前，他用他的大手撕咬并击打，杀死并打伤了十几个人。

Frothing and shrieking in the insanity of his fury, Kerchak looked about for the object of his greatest hatred, and there, upon a near-by limb, he saw him sitting.
克恰克在疯狂的愤怒中口吐白沫、尖叫着，环顾四周寻找他最憎恨的对象，结果他看到他坐在附近的一根树枝上。

‘Come down, Tarzan, great killer,’ cried Kerchak. ‘Come down and feel the fangs of a greater! Do mighty fighters fly to the trees at the first approach of danger?’ And then Kerchak emitted the volleying challenge of his kind.
“下来吧，泰山，伟大的杀手，”克恰克喊道。 ‘下来感受一下更伟大者的尖牙吧！难道强大的战士一遇到危险就飞向树林吗？”然后克查克发出了他的同类的齐射挑战。

Quietly Tarzan dropped to the ground. Breathlessly the tribe watched from their lofty perches as Kerchak, still roaring, charged the relatively puny figure.
泰山静静地倒在了地上。部落们屏息凝视地站在高高的高处，看着仍在咆哮的克尔查克向这个相对弱小的身影发起冲锋。

Nearly seven feet stood Kerchak on his short legs. His enormous shoulders were bunched and rounded with huge muscles. The back of his short neck was as a single lump of iron sinew which bulged beyond the base of his skull, so that his head seemed like a small ball protruding from a huge mountain of flesh.
克恰克用他的短腿站立着，距离有近七英尺。他巨大的肩膀因巨大的肌肉而皱起、圆润。他的短脖子后面就像一团铁筋，从头骨底部凸出，让他的头看起来就像是从一座巨大的肉山中突出的一个小球。

His back-drawn, snarling lips exposed his great fighting fangs, and his little, wicked, blood-shot eyes gleamed in horrid reflection of his madness.
他的嘴唇向后收缩，咆哮着，露出了巨大的獠牙，他那双邪恶的、布满血丝的小眼睛闪烁着可怕的光芒，反射着他的疯狂。

Awaiting him stood Tarzan, himself a mighty muscled animal, but his six feet of height and his great rolling sinews seemed pitifully inadequate to the ordeal which awaited them.
等待着他的是泰山，他本身就是一头肌肉发达的动物，但他六英尺的高度和巨大的滚动肌腱似乎不足以应对等待着他们的考验。

His bow and arrows lay some distance away where he had dropped them while showing Sabor’s hide to his fellow apes, so that he confronted Kerchak now with only his hunting knife and his superior intellect to offset the ferocious strength of his enemy.
他的弓箭放在距离他放下它们的地方有一段距离，同时向其他猿类展示萨博尔的兽皮，因此他现在只用他的猎刀和他卓越的智力来对抗敌人的凶猛力量。

As his antagonist came roaring toward him, Lord Greystoke tore his long knife from its sheath, and with an answering challenge as horrid and bloodcurdling as that of the beast he faced, rushed swiftly to meet the attack. He was too shrewd to allow those long hairy arms to encircle him, and just as their bodies were about to crash together, Tarzan of the Apes grasped one of the huge wrists of his assailant, and, springing lightly to one side, drove his knife to the hilt into Kerchak’s body, below the heart.
当他的对手向他咆哮时，格雷斯托克勋爵从刀鞘中拔出了长刀，并以与他所面对的野兽一样可怕和令人毛骨悚然的挑战来回应，迅速冲去迎接攻击。他太精明了，不允许那些毛茸茸的长臂包围他，就在他们的身体即将撞在一起时，人猿泰山抓住了袭击者的一只巨大手腕，轻轻地跳到一边，挥动了他的刀。一直深入到克尔查克的身体，心脏以下。

Before he could wrench the blade free again, the bull’s quick lunge to seize him in those awful arms had torn the weapon from Tarzan’s grasp.
还没等他再次挣脱剑刃，公牛就迅速猛冲，用可怕的手臂抓住了他，将泰山手中的武器扯了下来。

Kerchak aimed a terrific blow at the ape-man’s head with the flat of his hand, a blow which, had it landed, might easily have crushed in the side of Tarzan’s skull.
克尔恰克用手掌向猿人的头部猛烈一击，如果击中，很容易击碎泰山头骨的侧面。

The man was too quick, and, ducking beneath it, himself delivered a mighty one, with clenched fist, in the pit of Kerchak’s stomach.
那人速度太快了，躲在它下面，他自己握紧拳头，狠狠地射进了克尔查克的肚子里。

The ape was staggered, and what with the mortal wound in his side had almost collapsed, when, with one mighty effort he rallied for an instant—just long enough to enable him to wrest his arm free from Tarzan’s grasp and close in a terrific clinch with his wiry opponent.
猿猴踉踉跄跄地站了起来，身侧受了致命伤的他几乎要崩溃了，这时，他用尽全力，一瞬间又恢复了过来——时间刚好足以让他将手臂从泰山的手中挣脱出来，并紧紧地抱住。和他精瘦的对手。

Straining the ape-man close to him, his great jaws sought Tarzan’s throat, but the young lord’s sinewy fingers were at Kerchak’s own before the cruel fangs could close on the sleek brown skin.
将猿人拉近，他的大颚直逼泰山的喉咙，但在残酷的獠牙咬住光滑的棕色皮肤之前，这位年轻领主强壮的手指已经咬住了克查克​​的手指。

Thus they struggled, the one to crush out his opponent’s life with those awful teeth, the other to close forever the windpipe beneath his strong grasp while he held the snarling mouth from him.
他们就这样奋力搏斗，一个用那些可怕的牙齿碾碎对手的生命，另一个则在他的有力抓握下永远关闭气管，同时阻止他咆哮的嘴。

The greater strength of the ape was slowly prevailing, and the teeth of the straining beast were scarce an inch from Tarzan’s throat when, with a shuddering tremor, the great body stiffened for an instant and then sank limply to the ground.
猿猴的力量慢慢占了上风，那头猛兽的牙齿距离泰山的喉咙还不到一英寸，随着一阵颤抖，巨大的身体瞬间僵硬，然后无力地倒在地上。

Kerchak was dead.
克尔恰克死了。

Withdrawing the knife that had so often rendered him master of far mightier muscles than his own, Tarzan of the Apes placed his foot upon the neck of his vanquished enemy, and once again, loud through the forest rang the fierce, wild cry of the conqueror.
人猿泰山拔出了那把经常使他拥有比自己更强大肌肉的刀，将脚踩在了被击败的敌人的脖子上，森林中再次响起了征服者凶猛而狂野的叫声。 。

And thus came the young Lord Greystoke into the kingship of the Apes.
年轻的格雷斯托克勋爵就这样登上了猿族的王位。

Chapter 12
第12章


Man’s Reason
人的理性

There was one of the tribe of Tarzan who questioned his authority, and that was Terkoz, the son of Tublat, but he so feared the keen knife and the deadly arrows of his new lord that he confined the manifestation of his objections to petty disobediences and irritating mannerisms; Tarzan knew, however, that he but waited his opportunity to wrest the kingship from him by some sudden stroke of treachery, and so he was ever on his guard against surprise.
泰山部落中有一个人质疑他的权威，那就是图布拉特的儿子泰尔科兹，但他非常害怕新领主的锋利的刀和致命的箭，所以他将他的反对的表现仅限于轻微的不服从和反抗。令人恼火的举止；然而，泰山知道，他只是在等待机会，通过突然的背叛从他手中夺取王权，因此他始终保持警惕，以防意外。

For months the life of the little band went on much as it had before, except that Tarzan’s greater intelligence and his ability as a hunter were the means of providing for them more bountifully than ever before. Most of them, therefore, were more than content with the change in rulers.
几个月来，这小群人的生活和以前一样，只是泰山更聪明，他作为猎人的能力比以往任何时候都更加丰富。因此，他们中的大多数人对统治者的更迭感到非常满意。

Tarzan led them by night to the fields of the black men, and there, warned by their chief’s superior wisdom, they ate only what they required, nor ever did they destroy what they could not eat, as is the way of Manu, the monkey, and of most apes.
晚上，泰山带领他们来到黑人的田野，在那里，他们受到酋长卓越智慧的警告，只吃他们需要的东西，也从不销毁他​​们不能吃的东西，就像猴子摩努的方式一样，以及大多数猿类。

So, while the blacks were wroth at the continued pilfering of their fields, they were not discouraged in their efforts to cultivate the land, as would have been the case had Tarzan permitted his people to lay waste the plantation wantonly.
因此，虽然黑人对他们的田地不断被盗感到愤怒，但他们并没有灰心耕种土地的努力，就像泰山允许他的人民肆意毁坏种植园一样。

During this period Tarzan paid many nocturnal visits to the village, where he often renewed his supply of arrows. He soon noticed the food always standing at the foot of the tree which was his avenue into the palisade, and after a little, he commenced to eat whatever the blacks put there.
在此期间，泰山多次夜间造访村庄，并经常在那里补充箭矢。他很快就注意到食物总是站在树脚下，那是他进入栅栏的通道，过了一会儿，他开始吃黑人放在那里的任何东西。

When the awe-struck savages saw that the food disappeared overnight they were filled with consternation and dread, for it was one thing to put food out to propitiate a god or a devil, but quite another thing to have the spirit really come into the village and eat it. Such a thing was unheard of, and it clouded their superstitious minds with all manner of vague fears.
敬畏的野人看到食物一夜之间消失了，他们充满了惊愕和恐惧，因为把食物拿出来安抚神或魔鬼是一回事，但让鬼魂真正进入村庄又是另一回事了。并吃掉它。这种事情是闻所未闻的，他们的迷信头脑中笼罩着各种模糊的恐惧。

Nor was this all. The periodic disappearance of their arrows, and the strange pranks perpetrated by unseen hands, had wrought them to such a state that life had become a veritable burden in their new home, and now it was that Mbonga and his head men began to talk of abandoning the village and seeking a site farther on in the jungle.
这还不是全部。箭矢的周期性消失，以及看不见的手所进行的奇怪恶作剧，使他们陷入了这样一种状态，生活已经成为他们新家名副其实的负担，现在姆邦加和他的头目们开始谈论放弃村庄并在丛林中寻找更远的地点。

Presently the black warriors began to strike farther and farther south into the heart of the forest when they went to hunt, looking for a site for a new village.
不久，黑人武士开始向南进发，深入森林中心，去打猎，寻找新村庄的地点。

More often was the tribe of Tarzan disturbed by these wandering huntsmen. Now was the quiet, fierce solitude of the primeval forest broken by new, strange cries. No longer was there safety for bird or beast. Man had come.
更多时候，泰山部落受到这些流浪猎人的骚扰。现在，原始森林的安静、激烈的孤独被新的、奇怪的叫声打破了。对于鸟类或野兽来说，不再有安全感。男人来了。

Other animals passed up and down the jungle by day and by night—fierce, cruel beasts—but their weaker neighbors only fled from their immediate vicinity to return again when the danger was past.
其他动物白天黑夜在丛林中来回穿梭——凶猛、残忍的野兽——但它们较弱的邻居只有从它们附近逃离，等到危险过去后才会再次返回。

With man it is different. When he comes many of the larger animals instinctively leave the district entirely, seldom if ever to return; and thus it has always been with the great anthropoids. They flee man as man flees a pestilence.
对于人来说则不同。当他到来时，许多较大的动物本能地完全离开该地区，很少回来。伟大的类人猿一直都是这样。他们逃离人类，就像人类逃离瘟疫一样。

For a short time the tribe of Tarzan lingered in the vicinity of the beach because their new chief hated the thought of leaving the treasured contents of the little cabin forever. But when one day a member of the tribe discovered the blacks in great numbers on the banks of a little stream that had been their watering place for generations, and in the act of clearing a space in the jungle and erecting many huts, the apes would remain no longer; and so Tarzan led them inland for many marches to a spot as yet undefiled by the foot of a human being.
泰山部落在海滩附近徘徊了很短一段时间，因为他们的新酋长讨厌永远离开小木屋里的珍贵物品。但是有一天，当部落的一名成员在一条小溪的岸边发现了大批黑人，那里是他们世世代代的饮水地，并且在丛林中清理出一块空间并建造了许多小屋时，猿类就会不再停留；于是，泰山带领他们向内陆行进了许多次，到达了一个尚未被人类足迹玷污的地方。

Once every moon Tarzan would go swinging rapidly back through the swaying branches to have a day with his books, and to replenish his supply of arrows. This latter task was becoming more and more difficult, for the blacks had taken to hiding their supply away at night in granaries and living huts.
每个月，泰山都会在摇曳的树枝间快速荡回，与他的书本度过一天，并补充他的箭矢。后一项任务变得越来越困难，因为黑人已经开始在晚上把补给品藏在粮仓和居住的小屋里。

This necessitated watching by day on Tarzan’s part to discover where the arrows were being concealed.
这就需要泰山白天观察，以发现箭被隐藏的地方。

Twice had he entered huts at night while the inmates lay sleeping upon their mats, and stolen the arrows from the very sides of the warriors. But this method he realized to be too fraught with danger, and so he commenced picking up solitary hunters with his long, deadly noose, stripping them of weapons and ornaments and dropping their bodies from a high tree into the village street during the still watches of the night.
他曾两次在夜间，当囚犯们躺在垫子上睡觉时，他进入小屋，从战士们的身边偷走箭。但他意识到这种方法充满了危险，于是他开始用他那又长又致命的绞索把孤独的猎人抓起来，夺走他们的武器和装饰品，然后在夜深人静的时候把他们的尸体从高树上扔到村里的街道上。那个晚上。

These various escapades again so terrorized the blacks that, had it not been for the monthly respite between Tarzan’s visits, in which they had opportunity to renew hope that each fresh incursion would prove the last, they soon would have abandoned their new village.
这些各种各样的越轨行为再次让黑人感到恐惧，以至于如果不是泰山访问之间每月的休息时间，他们有机会重新燃起希望，每次新的入侵都会成为最后一次，他们很快就会放弃他们的新村庄。

The blacks had not as yet come upon Tarzan’s cabin on the distant beach, but the ape-man lived in constant dread that, while he was away with the tribe, they would discover and despoil his treasure. So it came that he spent more and more time in the vicinity of his father’s last home, and less and less with the tribe. Presently the members of his little community began to suffer on account of his neglect, for disputes and quarrels constantly arose which only the king might settle peaceably.
黑人还没有来到远处海滩上泰山的小屋，但猿人一直生活在恐惧之中，担心当他离开部落时，他们会发现并掠夺他的宝藏。因此，他在父亲最后的家附近度过的时间越来越多，与部落在一起的时间越来越少。不久，他的小团体的成员开始因他的疏忽而受苦，因为争端和争吵不断发生，只有国王才能和平解决。

At last some of the older apes spoke to Tarzan on the subject, and for a month thereafter he remained constantly with the tribe.
最后，一些年长的猩猩与泰山谈论了这个话题，此后一个月，泰山一直留在部落中。

The duties of kingship among the anthropoids are not many or arduous.
类人猿中王权的职责并不多，也不繁重。

In the afternoon comes Thaka, possibly, to complain that old Mungo has stolen his new wife. Then must Tarzan summon all before him, and if he finds that the wife prefers her new lord he commands that matters remain as they are, or possibly that Mungo give Thaka one of his daughters in exchange.
下午，塔卡可能会来抱怨老蒙戈偷走了他的新妻子。然后泰山必须把所有人都召集到他面前，如果他发现妻子更喜欢她的新主人，他就会命令一切保持原样，或者可能蒙戈将他的一个女儿送给塔卡作为交换。

Whatever his decision, the apes accept it as final, and return to their occupations satisfied.
无论他的决定如何，猩猩们都会接受它作为最终决定，并满意地返回他们的职业。

Then comes Tana, shrieking and holding tight her side from which blood is streaming. Gunto, her husband, has cruelly bitten her! And Gunto, summoned, says that Tana is lazy and will not bring him nuts and beetles, or scratch his back for him.
然后塔娜过来了，她尖叫着，紧紧抓住流着血的一侧。她的丈夫贡托残忍地咬了她！冈托被传唤，说塔纳很懒，不会给他带来坚果和甲虫，也不会为他挠背。

So Tarzan scolds them both and threatens Gunto with a taste of the death-bearing slivers if he abuses Tana further, and Tana, for her part, is compelled to promise better attention to her wifely duties.
因此，泰山斥责了他们俩，并威胁贡托，如果他进一步虐待塔娜，他就尝尝致命的碎片，而塔娜则被迫承诺更加关注她的妻子职责。

And so it goes, little family differences for the most part, which, if left unsettled would result finally in greater factional strife, and the eventual dismemberment of the tribe.
就这样，大多数情况下，家庭分歧很小，如果不解决，最终会导致更大的派系冲突，并最终导致部落的分裂。

But Tarzan tired of it, as he found that kingship meant the curtailment of his liberty. He longed for the little cabin and the sun-kissed sea—for the cool interior of the well-built house, and for the never-ending wonders of the many books.
但泰山对此感到厌倦，因为他发现王权意味着限制他的自由。他渴望那间小木屋和阳光明媚的大海，渴望这座精心建造的房子凉爽的内部，渴望那些书中永无休止的奇迹。

As he had grown older, he found that he had grown away from his people. Their interests and his were far removed. They had not kept pace with him, nor could they understand aught of the many strange and wonderful dreams that passed through the active brain of their human king. So limited was their vocabulary that Tarzan could not even talk with them of the many new truths, and the great fields of thought that his reading had opened up before his longing eyes, or make known ambitions which stirred his soul.
随着年龄的增长，他发现自己已经远离了自己的人民。他们的利益和他的利益相差甚远。他们没有跟上他的步伐，也无法理解人类国王活跃的大脑中所经历的许多奇怪而美妙的梦想。他们的词汇量如此有限，以至于泰山甚至无法与他们谈论许多新的真理，以及他的阅读在他渴望的眼前打开的广阔的思想领域，也无法说出那些搅动他灵魂的野心。

Among the tribe he no longer had friends as of old. A little child may find companionship in many strange and simple creatures, but to a grown man there must be some semblance of equality in intellect as the basis for agreeable association.
在部落里，他不再像以前那样有朋友了。一个小孩子可能会在许多奇怪而简单的生物中找到陪伴，但对于一个成年人来说，必须有某种智力上的平等，作为愉快交往的基础。

Had Kala lived, Tarzan would have sacrificed all else to remain near her, but now that she was dead, and the playful friends of his childhood grown into fierce and surly brutes he felt that he much preferred the peace and solitude of his cabin to the irksome duties of leadership amongst a horde of wild beasts.
如果卡拉还活着，泰山会牺牲一切来留在她身边，但现在她死了，他童年时顽皮的朋友们都变成了凶猛而乖戾的野蛮人，他觉得自己更喜欢小屋里的宁静和孤独，而不是在外面。在一群野兽中领导令人厌烦的职责。

The hatred and jealousy of Terkoz, son of Tublat, did much to counteract the effect of Tarzan’s desire to renounce his kingship among the apes, for, stubborn young Englishman that he was, he could not bring himself to retreat in the face of so malignant an enemy.
图布拉特之子泰尔科兹的仇恨和嫉妒极大地抵消了泰山放弃猿类王权的愿望，因为他是个顽固的年轻英国人，面对如此恶毒的人，他无法让自己撤退。一个敌人。

That Terkoz would be chosen leader in his stead he knew full well, for time and again the ferocious brute had established his claim to physical supremacy over the few bull apes who had dared resent his savage bullying.
他非常清楚泰尔科兹将被选为他的领导者，因为这个凶猛的野兽一次又一次地确立了他对少数胆敢憎恨他的野蛮欺凌行为的牛猩猩的身体霸主地位。

Tarzan would have liked to subdue the ugly beast without recourse to knife or arrows. So much had his great strength and agility increased in the period following his maturity that he had come to believe that he might master the redoubtable Terkoz in a hand to hand fight were it not for the terrible advantage the anthropoid’s huge fighting fangs gave him over the poorly armed Tarzan.
泰山希望能够在不使用刀或箭的情况下制服这头丑陋的野兽。在他成熟之后的一段时间里，他的力量和敏捷性得到了极大的增强，以至于他开始相信，如果不是类人猿巨大的战斗尖牙给他带来了可怕的优势，他可能会在肉搏战中战胜可怕的泰尔科兹。武装简陋的泰山。

The entire matter was taken out of Tarzan’s hands one day by force of circumstances, and his future left open to him, so that he might go or stay without any stain upon his savage escutcheon.
有一天，由于环境的力量，整个事情都从泰山手中夺走了，他的未来向他敞开了，这样他就可以在他野蛮的盾牌上留下任何污点。

It happened thus:
事情是这样发生的：

The tribe was feeding quietly, spread over a considerable area, when a great screaming arose some distance east of where Tarzan lay upon his belly beside a limpid brook, attempting to catch an elusive fish in his quick, brown hands.
这个部落正在安静地进食，分布在相当大的区域，这时，泰山趴在一条清澈的小溪旁，试图用他敏捷的棕色双手捕捉一条难以捉摸的鱼，在东边不远的地方，传来一声巨大的尖叫声。

With one accord the tribe swung rapidly toward the frightened cries, and there found Terkoz holding an old female by the hair and beating her unmercifully with his great hands.
部落一致迅速转向惊恐的叫喊声，发现泰尔科兹抓住了一位老妇人的头发，用他的大手无情地殴打她。

As Tarzan approached he raised his hand aloft for Terkoz to desist, for the female was not his, but belonged to a poor old ape whose fighting days were long over, and who, therefore, could not protect his family.
当泰山走近时，他高高举起手，要求泰尔科兹停止，因为雌性不是他的，而是属于一只可怜的老猩猩，它的战斗日子早已结束，因此，它无法保护他的家人。

Terkoz knew that it was against the laws of his kind to strike this woman of another, but being a bully, he had taken advantage of the weakness of the female’s husband to chastise her because she had refused to give up to him a tender young rodent she had captured.
泰尔科兹知道，殴打另一个女人是违反同类法律的，但作为一个恶霸，他利用女人丈夫的弱点来惩罚她，因为她拒绝把一只温柔的小啮齿动物交给他。她捕获了。

When Terkoz saw Tarzan approaching without his arrows, he continued to belabor the poor woman in a studied effort to affront his hated chieftain.
当泰尔科兹看到泰山没有带箭走近时，他继续殴打这个可怜的女人，故意冒犯他所憎恨的酋长。

Tarzan did not repeat his warning signal, but instead rushed bodily upon the waiting Terkoz.
泰山没有重复他的警告信号，而是用身体冲向等待的泰尔科兹。

Never had the ape-man fought so terrible a battle since that long-gone day when Bolgani, the great king gorilla had so horribly manhandled him ere the new-found knife had, by accident, pricked the savage heart.
自从伟大的大猩猩博尔加尼对他进行了如此可怕的粗暴对待之后，猿人还从未进行过如此可怕的战斗，而新发现的刀子却意外地刺痛了他野蛮的心。

Tarzan’s knife on the present occasion but barely offset the gleaming fangs of Terkoz, and what little advantage the ape had over the man in brute strength was almost balanced by the latter’s wonderful quickness and agility.
泰山的刀在目前的情况下，但勉强抵消了泰尔科兹闪闪发光的尖牙，而猿猴在蛮力方面对泰山的优势几乎被泰山惊人的速度和敏捷性所抵消。

In the sum total of their points, however, the anthropoid had a shade the better of the battle, and had there been no other personal attribute to influence the final outcome, Tarzan of the Apes, the young Lord Greystoke, would have died as he had lived—an unknown savage beast in equatorial Africa.
然而，总而言之，类人猿在这场战斗中略胜一筹，如果没有其他个人属性影响最终结果，人猿泰山，年轻的格雷斯托克勋爵，就会死在他的手中。曾经生活过——赤道非洲的一头未知的野蛮野兽。

But there was that which had raised him far above his fellows of the jungle—that little spark which spells the whole vast difference between man and brute—Reason. This it was which saved him from death beneath the iron muscles and tearing fangs of Terkoz.
但是，有一种东西使他远远超越了丛林中的同伴——那点小火花，说明了人与野兽之间的巨大区别——理性。正是这一点使他免于死在泰尔科兹钢铁般的肌肉和撕裂的尖牙之下。

Scarcely had they fought a dozen seconds ere they were rolling upon the ground, striking, tearing and rending—two great savage beasts battling to the death.
刚打斗了十几秒，他们就在地上打滚，互相攻击，撕扯，撕扯——两只凶猛的猛兽在殊死搏斗。

Terkoz had a dozen knife wounds on head and breast, and Tarzan was torn and bleeding—his scalp in one place half torn from his head so that a great piece hung down over one eye, obstructing his vision.
泰尔科兹的头部和胸部有十几处刀伤，而泰山则被撕破了，流着血——他的头皮有一处从头上撕下一半，一大块东西垂在一只眼睛上，挡住了他的视线。

But so far the young Englishman had been able to keep those horrible fangs from his jugular and now, as they fought less fiercely for a moment, to regain their breath, Tarzan formed a cunning plan. He would work his way to the other’s back and, clinging there with tooth and nail, drive his knife home until Terkoz was no more.
但到目前为止，这个年轻的英国人已经能够让那些可怕的獠牙远离他的颈椎，现在，当他们暂时不那么激烈地战斗时，为了恢复呼吸，泰山制定了一个狡猾的计划。他会一路摸到对方的背上，用牙齿和钉子紧紧抓住对方，然后用刀刺进对方的背部，直到泰尔科兹消失为止。

The maneuver was accomplished more easily than he had hoped, for the stupid beast, not knowing what Tarzan was attempting, made no particular effort to prevent the accomplishment of the design.
这个动作比他预想的更容易完成，因为这只愚蠢的野兽不知道泰山在尝试什么，也没有做出特别的努力来阻止设计的完成。

But when, finally, he realized that his antagonist was fastened to him where his teeth and fists alike were useless against him, Terkoz hurled himself about upon the ground so violently that Tarzan could but cling desperately to the leaping, turning, twisting body, and ere he had struck a blow the knife was hurled from his hand by a heavy impact against the earth, and Tarzan found himself defenseless.
但当他最终意识到他的对手已经紧紧地贴在他身上时，他的牙齿和拳头都对他毫无用处，泰尔科兹猛烈地摔倒在地，以至于泰山只能拼命地抓住那跳跃、旋转、扭曲的身体，泰山还没出手，刀就因猛烈的撞击而从他手中抛向地面，泰山发现自己毫无防备。

During the rollings and squirmings of the next few minutes, Tarzan’s hold was loosened a dozen times until finally an accidental circumstance of those swift and everchanging evolutions gave him a new hold with his right hand, which he realized was absolutely unassailable.
在接下来的几分钟的翻滚和蠕动中，泰山的握力被松开了十几次，直到最终，那些迅速而不断变化的演变的偶然情况让他用右手重新握住了，他意识到这是绝对无懈可击的。

His arm was passed beneath Terkoz’s arm from behind and his hand and forearm encircled the back of Terkoz’s neck. It was the half-Nelson of modern wrestling which the untaught ape-man had stumbled upon, but superior reason showed him in an instant the value of the thing he had discovered. It was the difference to him between life and death.
他的手臂从后面穿过泰尔科兹的手臂下方，他的手和前臂环住了泰尔科兹的后颈。这是这位未受过教育的猿人偶然发现的现代摔跤的半纳尔逊，但卓越的理性立即向他展示了他所发现的东西的价值。这对他来说就是生与死的区别。

And so he struggled to encompass a similar hold with the left hand, and in a few moments Terkoz’s bull neck was creaking beneath a full-Nelson.
因此，他努力用左手完成类似的握持动作，不一会儿，特科兹的牛颈就在全尼尔森的手下嘎吱作响。

There was no more lunging about now. The two lay perfectly still upon the ground, Tarzan upon Terkoz’s back. Slowly the bullet head of the ape was being forced lower and lower upon his chest.
现在已经没有人再乱扑了。两人一动不动地躺在地上，泰山则躺在泰尔科兹的背上。慢慢地，猿猴的子弹头被越来越低地压在他的胸口上。

Tarzan knew what the result would be. In an instant the neck would break. Then there came to Terkoz’s rescue the same thing that had put him in these sore straits—a man’s reasoning power.
泰山知道结果会是什么。瞬间脖子就断了。然后，让特尔科兹陷入困境的同样的东西拯救了他——一个人的推理能力。

‘If I kill him,’ thought Tarzan, ‘what advantage will it be to me? Will it not rob the tribe of a great fighter? And if Terkoz be dead, he will know nothing of my supremacy, while alive he will ever be an example to the other apes.’
“如果我杀了他，”泰山想，“这对我有什么好处呢？”难道部落不会失去一位伟大的战士吗？如果泰尔科兹死了，他就不会知道我的至高无上，而在他活着的时候，他将永远成为其他猿类的榜样。

‘KA-GODA?’ hissed Tarzan in Terkoz’s ear, which, in ape tongue, means, freely translated: ‘Do you surrender?’
“KA-GODA？”泰山在泰尔科兹耳边嘶声说道，用猿语来说，意思是：“你投降吗？”

For a moment there was no reply, and Tarzan added a few more ounces of pressure, which elicited a horrified shriek of pain from the great beast.
一时间没有任何反应，泰山又加了几盎司的压力，这让这只巨兽发出了可怕的痛苦尖叫声。

‘KA-GODA?’ repeated Tarzan.
“KA-GODA？”泰山重复道。

‘KA-GODA!’ cried Terkoz.
“KA-GODA！”泰尔科兹喊道。

‘Listen,’ said Tarzan, easing up a trifle, but not releasing his hold. ‘I am Tarzan, King of the Apes, mighty hunter, mighty fighter. In all the jungle there is none so great.
“听着，”泰山说，稍微放松了一点，但没有松开手。 “我是泰山，猿猴之王，强大的猎人，强大的战士。在整个丛林中，没有比这更伟大的了。

‘You have said: ‘KA-GODA’ to me. All the tribe have heard. Quarrel no more with your king or your people, for next time I shall kill you. Do you understand?’
‘你对我说过：‘KA-GODA’。全族人都听见了。不要再与你的国王或你的人民争吵，因为下次我会杀了你。你明白吗？'

‘HUH,’ assented Terkoz.
“嗯，”泰尔科兹同意道。

‘And you are satisfied?’
“你满意吗？”

‘HUH,’ said the ape.
“哈，”猿猴说。

Tarzan let him up, and in a few minutes all were back at their vocations, as though naught had occurred to mar the tranquility of their primeval forest haunts.
泰山让他站起来，几分钟后，所有人都回到了自己的工作岗位，仿佛没有发生任何事情来破坏他们原始森林的宁静。

But deep in the minds of the apes was rooted the conviction that Tarzan was a mighty fighter and a strange creature. Strange because he had had it in his power to kill his enemy, but had allowed him to live—unharmed.
但在猿类的内心深处，人们坚信泰山是一位强大的战士，也是一种奇怪的生物。奇怪的是，他本来有能力杀死敌人，但却让他活了下来——毫发无伤。

That afternoon as the tribe came together, as was their wont before darkness settled on the jungle, Tarzan, his wounds washed in the waters of the stream, called the old males about him.
那天下午，当部落聚集在一起时，正如他们在黑暗降临丛林之前的惯例一样，泰山在溪水中清洗了他的伤口，召集了周围的年老男性。

‘You have seen again to-day that Tarzan of the Apes is the greatest among you,’ he said.
“今天你们再次看到，人猿泰山是你们当中最伟大的，”他说。

‘HUH,’ they replied with one voice, ‘Tarzan is great.’
“嗯，”他们异口同声地回答，“泰山太棒了。”

‘Tarzan,’ he continued, ‘is not an ape. He is not like his people. His ways are not their ways, and so Tarzan is going back to the lair of his own kind by the waters of the great lake which has no farther shore. You must choose another to rule you, for Tarzan will not return.’
“泰山，”他继续说道，“不是猿。他不像他的人民。他的道路与他们的道路不同，因此泰山将在没有更远海岸的大湖水边回到他同类的巢穴。你必须选择另一个人来统治你，因为泰山不会回来。

And thus young Lord Greystoke took the first step toward the goal which he had set—the finding of other white men like himself.
就这样，年轻的格雷斯托克勋爵朝着他设定的目标迈出了第一步——寻找其他像他一样的白人。

Chapter 13
第13章


His Own Kind
他自己的同类

The following morning, Tarzan, lame and sore from the wounds of his battle with Terkoz, set out toward the west and the seacoast.
第二天早上，泰山因与泰尔科兹的战斗而受伤，跛了脚，浑身酸痛，向西方和海岸出发。

He traveled very slowly, sleeping in the jungle at night, and reaching his cabin late the following morning.
他行得很慢，晚上睡在丛林里，第二天早上很晚才到达他的小屋。

For several days he moved about but little, only enough to gather what fruits and nuts he required to satisfy the demands of hunger.
一连几天，他几乎没有走动，只够采集他所需的水果和坚果来充饥。

In ten days he was quite sound again, except for a terrible, half-healed scar, which, starting above his left eye ran across the top of his head, ending at the right ear. It was the mark left by Terkoz when he had torn the scalp away.
十天后，他又完全康复了，除了一道可怕的、半愈合的伤疤，伤疤从他的左眼上方开始，一直延伸到头顶，一直到右耳。那是泰尔科兹撕开头皮时留下的痕迹。

During his convalescence Tarzan tried to fashion a mantle from the skin of Sabor, which had lain all this time in the cabin. But he found the hide had dried as stiff as a board, and as he knew naught of tanning, he was forced to abandon his cherished plan.
在康复期间，泰山试图用一直躺在小屋里的萨博尔的皮肤制作一件斗篷。但他发现皮革干燥后像木板一样僵硬，而且由于他对鞣制一无所知，他被迫放弃了他所珍视的计划。

Then he determined to filch what few garments he could from one of the black men of Mbonga’s village, for Tarzan of the Apes had decided to mark his evolution from the lower orders in every possible manner, and nothing seemed to him a more distinguishing badge of manhood than ornaments and clothing.
然后，他决定从姆邦加村的一位黑人那里偷走他能偷到的几件衣服，因为人猿泰山已经决定以一切可能的方式标记他从下层阶级的进化，在他看来，没有什么比这更显着的徽章了。男子气概胜于装饰品和服装。

To this end, therefore, he collected the various arm and leg ornaments he had taken from the black warriors who had succumbed to his swift and silent noose, and donned them all after the way he had seen them worn.
因此，为了这个目的，他收集了从那些屈服于他快速而无声的绞索的黑人武士身上夺走的各种手臂和腿部饰物，并按照他所看到的佩戴方式将它们全部戴上。

About his neck hung the golden chain from which depended the diamond encrusted locket of his mother, the Lady Alice. At his back was a quiver of arrows slung from a leathern shoulder belt, another piece of loot from some vanquished black.
他脖子上挂着一条金链，链上挂着他母亲爱丽丝女士的镶满钻石的挂坠盒。他背后的皮革肩带上挂着一袋箭，这是来自某个被征服的黑人的另一件战利品。

About his waist was a belt of tiny strips of rawhide fashioned by himself as a support for the home-made scabbard in which hung his father’s hunting knife. The long bow which had been Kulonga’s hung over his left shoulder.
他的腰间系着一条他自己制作的小生牛皮带，用来支撑自制的刀鞘，刀鞘上挂着他父亲的猎刀。库隆加的长弓挂在他的左肩上。

The young Lord Greystoke was indeed a strange and war-like figure, his mass of black hair falling to his shoulders behind and cut with his hunting knife to a rude bang upon his forehead, that it might not fall before his eyes.
年轻的格雷斯托克勋爵确实是一个奇怪的、好战的人物，他的一头黑发从后面垂到肩上，用猎刀在额头上粗鲁地划了一道，以免头发掉落在他眼前。

His straight and perfect figure, muscled as the best of the ancient Roman gladiators must have been muscled, and yet with the soft and sinuous curves of a Greek god, told at a glance the wondrous combination of enormous strength with suppleness and speed.
他笔直而完美的身材，肌肉发达，就像古罗马最优秀的角斗士一样，但又有着希腊神的柔和而蜿蜒的曲线，一眼就能看出巨大的力量与柔软和速度的奇妙结合。

A personification, was Tarzan of the Apes, of the primitive man, the hunter, the warrior.
人猿泰山是原始人、猎人、战士的化身。

With the noble poise of his handsome head upon those broad shoulders, and the fire of life and intelligence in those fine, clear eyes, he might readily have typified some demigod of a wild and warlike bygone people of his ancient forest.
宽阔的肩膀上英俊的头颅显得高贵而镇定，那双精致而清澈的眼睛里闪烁着生命之火和智慧，他很可能代表了他古老森林中野蛮好战的过去民族中的某个半神。

But of these things Tarzan did not think. He was worried because he had not clothing to indicate to all the jungle folks that he was a man and not an ape, and grave doubt often entered his mind as to whether he might not yet become an ape.
但泰山并没有想到这些。他很担心，因为他没有衣服向所有丛林居民表明他是一个人而不是一只猿，他的脑海里经常出现严重的怀疑，怀疑他是否还没有成为猿。

Was not hair commencing to grow upon his face? All the apes had hair upon theirs but the black men were entirely hairless, with very few exceptions.
他脸上不是开始长头发了吗？所有猿类都有毛，但黑人除了极少数例外，完全没有毛。

True, he had seen pictures in his books of men with great masses of hair upon lip and cheek and chin, but, nevertheless, Tarzan was afraid. Almost daily he whetted his keen knife and scraped and whittled at his young beard to eradicate this degrading emblem of apehood.
确实，他在书中看到过嘴唇、脸颊和下巴上长着大量毛发的男人的照片，但尽管如此，泰山还是感到害怕。他几乎每天都磨着锋利的小刀，刮削和削掉他年轻的胡须，以根除这种有辱人格的猿类标志。

And so he learned to shave—rudely and painfully, it is true—but, nevertheless, effectively.
于是他学会了刮胡子——确实很粗鲁、很痛苦——但尽管如此，还是很有效。

When he felt quite strong again, after his bloody battle with Terkoz, Tarzan set off one morning towards Mbonga’s village. He was moving carelessly along a winding jungle trail, instead of making his progress through the trees, when suddenly he came face to face with a black warrior.
在与泰尔科兹的血腥战斗之后，泰山再次感到自己变得坚强起来，一天早上，他出发前往姆邦加的村庄。他漫不经心地沿着一条蜿蜒的丛林小道前进，而不是在树林中前进，突然，他与一名黑人武士面对面。

The look of surprise on the savage face was almost comical, and before Tarzan could unsling his bow the fellow had turned and fled down the path crying out in alarm as though to others before him.
那张野蛮人脸上的惊讶表情几乎是滑稽的，在泰山解开弓之前，那家伙已经转身沿着小路逃走了，惊恐地大喊着，好像在对他面前的其他人喊叫。

Tarzan took to the trees in pursuit, and in a few moments came in view of the men desperately striving to escape.
泰山跑到树林里追击，不一会儿，人们就看到了拼命逃跑的人。

There were three of them, and they were racing madly in single file through the dense undergrowth.
他们一共三人，排成一列，在茂密的灌木丛中疯狂奔跑。

Tarzan easily distanced them, nor did they see his silent passage above their heads, nor note the crouching figure squatted upon a low branch ahead of them beneath which the trail led them.
泰山很容易拉开了他们的距离，他们也没有看到他在他们头顶上悄无声息的经过，也没有注意到那个蹲在他们前面的低矮树枝上的身影，下面的小路引导着他们。

Tarzan let the first two pass beneath him, but as the third came swiftly on, the quiet noose dropped about the black throat. A quick jerk drew it taut.
泰山让前两个从他身下通过，但当第三个迅速到来时，安静的绞索落在了黑色的喉咙上。快速的一拉把它拉紧了。

There was an agonized scream from the victim, and his fellows turned to see his struggling body rise as by magic slowly into the dense foliage of the trees above.
受害者发出一声痛苦的尖叫，他的伙伴们转过身来，看到他挣扎的身体像魔法一样慢慢地升入上方茂密的树叶中。

With frightened shrieks they wheeled once more and plunged on in their efforts to escape.
他们惊恐地尖叫着，再次转身，试图逃跑。

Tarzan dispatched his prisoner quickly and silently; removed the weapons and ornaments, and—oh, the greatest joy of all—a handsome deerskin breechcloth, which he quickly transferred to his own person.
泰山迅速而无声地处决了他的囚犯。拿掉武器和装饰品，还有——哦，最大的乐趣——一件漂亮的鹿皮裤布，他很快就把它转移到了自己身上。

Now indeed was he dressed as a man should be. None there was who could now doubt his high origin. How he should have liked to have returned to the tribe to parade before their envious gaze this wondrous finery.
现在他确实是一个男人该有的打扮了。现在没有人会怀疑他的高贵出身。他多么希望能够回到部落，在他们羡慕的目光面前炫耀这件奇妙的服饰。

Taking the body across his shoulder, he moved more slowly through the trees toward the little palisaded village, for he again needed arrows.
他把尸体扛在肩上，更加缓慢地穿过树林，向那个被栅栏围起来的小村庄走去，因为他又需要箭了。

As he approached quite close to the enclosure he saw an excited group surrounding the two fugitives, who, trembling with fright and exhaustion, were scarce able to recount the uncanny details of their adventure.
当他接近围场时，他看到一群兴奋的人围着两名逃犯，他们因恐惧和疲惫而颤抖，几乎无法讲述他们冒险的离奇细节。

Mirando, they said, who had been ahead of them a short distance, had suddenly come screaming toward them, crying that a terrible white and naked warrior was pursuing him. The three of them had hurried toward the village as rapidly as their legs would carry them.
他们说，米兰多当时就在他们前面不远的地方，突然尖叫着冲向他们，哭喊着一个可怕的白色赤身战士正在追赶他。三个人拼命地向村子里赶去。

Again Mirando’s shrill cry of mortal terror had caused them to look back, and there they had seen the most horrible sight—their companion’s body flying upwards into the trees, his arms and legs beating the air and his tongue protruding from his open mouth. No other sound did he utter nor was there any creature in sight about him.
米兰多那致命的尖叫再次让他们回头看去，他们看到了最可怕的景象——他们同伴的身体向上飞到树林里，他的胳膊和腿在空中拍打，舌头从张开的嘴里伸出来。他没有发出任何声音，周围也没有看到任何生物。

The villagers were worked up into a state of fear bordering on panic, but wise old Mbonga affected to feel considerable skepticism regarding the tale, and attributed the whole fabrication to their fright in the face of some real danger.
村民们陷入了一种近乎恐慌的恐惧状态，但明智的老姆邦加假装对这个故事感到相当怀疑，并将整个编造归因于他们面对真正危险时的恐惧。

‘You tell us this great story,’ he said, ‘because you do not dare to speak the truth. You do not dare admit that when the lion sprang upon Mirando you ran away and left him. You are cowards.’
“你告诉我们这个伟大的故事，”他说，“因为你不敢说实话。”你不敢承认，当狮子扑向米兰多时，你就逃跑了，离开了他。你们都是胆小鬼。

Scarcely had Mbonga ceased speaking when a great crashing of branches in the trees above them caused the blacks to look up in renewed terror. The sight that met their eyes made even wise old Mbonga shudder, for there, turning and twisting in the air, came the dead body of Mirando, to sprawl with a sickening reverberation upon the ground at their feet.
姆邦加话音刚落，他们头顶上的树枝就发出巨大的撞击声，黑人们再次惊恐地抬起头来。他们眼前所见的景象，就连睿智的老姆邦加也不寒而栗，因为米兰多的尸体在空中旋转扭曲，倒在他们脚下的地面上，发出令人作呕的回响。

With one accord the blacks took to their heels; nor did they stop until the last of them was lost in the dense shadows of the surrounding jungle.
黑人们一致同意，纷纷撤退。他们也没有停下来，直到最后一个人消失在周围丛林的浓密阴影中。

Again Tarzan came down into the village and renewed his supply of arrows and ate of the offering of food which the blacks had made to appease his wrath.
泰山再次来到村庄，补充了他的箭，并吃了黑人为平息他的愤怒而提供的食物。

Before he left he carried the body of Mirando to the gate of the village, and propped it up against the palisade in such a way that the dead face seemed to be peering around the edge of the gatepost down the path which led to the jungle.
离开之前，他把米兰多的尸体抬到村门口，把它靠在栅栏上，死者的脸似乎在沿着通向丛林的小路从门柱边缘往下看。

Then Tarzan returned, hunting, always hunting, to the cabin by the beach.
然后泰山回来了，狩猎，总是狩猎，回到海滩边的小屋。

It took a dozen attempts on the part of the thoroughly frightened blacks to reenter their village, past the horrible, grinning face of their dead fellow, and when they found the food and arrows gone they knew, what they had only too well feared, that Mirando had seen the evil spirit of the jungle.
那些彻底惊恐万分的黑人尝试了十几次才重新进入他们的村庄，穿过死者那张可怕的、咧着嘴笑的脸，当他们发现食物和箭都不见了时，他们知道，他们非常害怕的是什么，米兰多见过丛林里的恶灵。

That now seemed to them the logical explanation. Only those who saw this terrible god of the jungle died; for was it not true that none left alive in the village had ever seen him? Therefore, those who had died at his hands must have seen him and paid the penalty with their lives.
现在对他们来说，这似乎是合乎逻辑的解释。只有那些见到了这位可怕的丛林之神的人才会死去；因为村子里活着的人不是都没有见过他吗？所以，那些死在他手上的人，一定都见过他，并且付出了生命的代价。

As long as they supplied him with arrows and food he would not harm them unless they looked upon him, so it was ordered by Mbonga that in addition to the food offering there should also be laid out an offering of arrows for this Munango-Keewati, and this was done from then on.
只要他们向他提供箭和食物，他就不会伤害他们，除非他们看着他，所以姆邦加下令，除了提供食物外，还应该为这个穆南戈-基瓦蒂提供箭供，从那时起就这样做了。

If you ever chance to pass that far off African village you will still see before a tiny thatched hut, built just without the village, a little iron pot in which is a quantity of food, and beside it a quiver of well-daubed arrows.
如果你有机会经过那么远的非洲村庄，你仍然会看到一座小茅草屋前，建在村庄旁边，里面有一个小铁锅，里面有一些食物，旁边有一袋精心涂抹的箭。

When Tarzan came in sight of the beach where stood his cabin, a strange and unusual spectacle met his vision.
当泰山看到他的小屋所在的海滩时，一幅奇怪而不寻常的景象映入了他的视野。

On the placid waters of the landlocked harbor floated a great ship, and on the beach a small boat was drawn up.
内陆港口平静的水面上漂浮着一艘大船，海滩上停泊着一艘小船。

But, most wonderful of all, a number of white men like himself were moving about between the beach and his cabin.
但是，最奇妙的是，许多像他一样的白人正在海滩和他的小屋之间走动。

Tarzan saw that in many ways they were like the men of his picture books. He crept closer through the trees until he was quite close above them.
泰山发现他们在很多方面都像他图画书中的人物。他爬近树林，直到距离树林很近。

There were ten men, swarthy, sun-tanned, villainous looking fellows. Now they had congregated by the boat and were talking in loud, angry tones, with much gesticulating and shaking of fists.
有十个人，皮肤黝黑，晒黑了，看上去很邪恶。现在，他们聚集在船边，用愤怒的声音大声交谈，还打着手势，挥舞着拳头。

Presently one of them, a little, mean-faced, black-bearded fellow with a countenance which reminded Tarzan of Pamba, the rat, laid his hand upon the shoulder of a giant who stood next him, and with whom all the others had been arguing and quarreling.
不久，他们中的一个，一个身材矮小、面容卑鄙、留着黑胡子的家伙，他的面容让泰山想起了老鼠潘巴，他把手放在了站在他旁边的一个巨人的肩膀上，其他人都和他在一起过。争论和争吵。

The little man pointed inland, so that the giant was forced to turn away from the others to look in the direction indicated. As he turned, the little, mean-faced man drew a revolver from his belt and shot the giant in the back.
小个子指向内陆，巨人被迫转过身去，看向所指的方向。当他转身时，这个面容卑鄙的小个子男人从腰带上抽出一把左轮手枪，朝巨人的背部开枪。

The big fellow threw his hands above his head, his knees bent beneath him, and without a sound he tumbled forward upon the beach, dead.
那大个子双手举过头顶，膝盖弯曲，无声无息地倒在海滩上，死了。

The report of the weapon, the first that Tarzan had ever heard, filled him with wonderment, but even this unaccustomed sound could not startle his healthy nerves into even a semblance of panic.
泰山第一次听到武器的声音，这让他充满了惊奇，但即使是这种不习惯的声音也无法让他健康的神经惊慌起来。

The conduct of the white strangers it was that caused him the greatest perturbation. He puckered his brows into a frown of deep thought. It was well, thought he, that he had not given way to his first impulse to rush forward and greet these white men as brothers.
白人陌生人的行为给他带来了最大的不安。他皱着眉头陷入了沉思。他想，还好他没有屈服于冲上前去，像兄弟一样迎接这些白人的第一冲动。

They were evidently no different from the black men—no more civilized than the apes—no less cruel than Sabor.
他们显然与黑人没有什么不同——并不比猿类更文明——也不比萨博尔更残忍。

For a moment the others stood looking at the little, meanfaced man and the giant lying dead upon the beach.
有那么一会儿，其他人站在那里，看着这个面容卑鄙的小个子男人和躺在海滩上死去的巨人。

Then one of them laughed and slapped the little man upon the back. There was much more talk and gesticulating, but less quarreling.
然后其中一个大笑起来，拍了拍小个子的背。谈话和手势更多了，但争吵却少了。

Presently they launched the boat and all jumped into it and rowed away toward the great ship, where Tarzan could see other figures moving about upon the deck.
不久，他们下了船，所有人都跳了进去，划向那艘大船，泰山可以看到其他人影在甲板上走来走去。

When they had clambered aboard, Tarzan dropped to earth behind a great tree and crept to his cabin, keeping it always between himself and the ship.
当他们爬上船后，泰山落在一棵大树后面的地上，爬到他的小屋里，始终把它挡在他和船之间。

Slipping in at the door he found that everything had been ransacked. His books and pencils strewed the floor. His weapons and shields and other little store of treasures were littered about.
推门而入，发现所有的东西都被洗劫一空。他的书和铅笔散落在地板上。他的武器、盾牌和其他少量的财宝散落在各处。

As he saw what had been done a great wave of anger surged through him, and the new made scar upon his forehead stood suddenly out, a bar of inflamed crimson against his tawny hide.
当他看到所发生的事情时，一股愤怒的浪潮席卷了他的全身，他额头上的新疤痕突然突出，在他黄褐色的皮肤上形成了一条发炎的深红色疤痕。

Quickly he ran to the cupboard and searched in the far recess of the lower shelf. Ah! He breathed a sigh of relief as he drew out the little tin box, and, opening it, found his greatest treasures undisturbed.
他迅速跑到橱柜前，在下层架子最深处的凹处里寻找。啊!当他拿出那个小锡盒并打开它时，他松了一口气，发现他最珍贵的宝贝完好无损。

The photograph of the smiling, strong-faced young man, and the little black puzzle book were safe.
那个微笑的、表情坚强的年轻人的照片和那本黑色的小拼图书是安全的。

What was that?
那是什么？

His quick ear had caught a faint but unfamiliar sound.
他敏锐的耳朵听到了微弱但陌生的声音。

Running to the window Tarzan looked toward the harbor, and there he saw that a boat was being lowered from the great ship beside the one already in the water. Soon he saw many people clambering over the sides of the larger vessel and dropping into the boats. They were coming back in full force.
泰山跑到窗前，朝港口望去，他看到一艘小船正在从那艘大船上放下来，旁边的那艘船已经在水里了。很快，他看到许多人爬上大船的舷侧，跳进船上。他们正全力归来。

For a moment longer Tarzan watched while a number of boxes and bundles were lowered into the waiting boats, then, as they shoved off from the ship’s side, the ape-man snatched up a piece of paper, and with a pencil printed on it for a few moments until it bore several lines of strong, well-made, almost letter-perfect characters.
泰山又看了一会儿，看到许多箱子和包裹被放入等待的船只中，然后，当它们从船舷上推开时，猿人抓起一张纸，并用铅笔在上面印了过了一会儿，上面出现了几行有力、制作精良、几乎完美的字符。

This notice he stuck upon the door with a small sharp splinter of wood. Then gathering up his precious tin box, his arrows, and as many bows and spears as he could carry, he hastened through the door and disappeared into the forest.
他用一块锋利的小木片把这张告示贴在门上。然后，他收拾起珍贵的锡盒、箭，以及尽可能多的弓箭和长矛，匆匆穿过门，消失在森林里。

When the two boats were beached upon the silvery sand it was a strange assortment of humanity that clambered ashore.
当两艘船搁浅在银色的沙滩上时，一群奇怪的人类爬上了岸。

Some twenty souls in all there were, fifteen of them rough and villainous appearing seamen.
总共约有二十个人，其中十五个是粗鲁而邪恶的海员。

The others of the party were of different stamp.
党内的其他人则有着不同的印记。

One was an elderly man, with white hair and large rimmed spectacles. His slightly stooped shoulders were draped in an ill-fitting, though immaculate, frock coat, and a shiny silk hat added to the incongruity of his garb in an African jungle.
其中一位是一位白发老人，戴着大框眼镜。他略微驼背的肩膀上披着一件不合身但完美无瑕的礼服大衣，戴着一顶闪亮的丝质帽子，这让他的装束在非洲丛林中显得格格不入。

The second member of the party to land was a tall young man in white ducks, while directly behind came another elderly man with a very high forehead and a fussy, excitable manner.
第二个登陆的人是一个穿着白鸭子的高个子年轻人，而紧随其后的是另一个额头很高、神态挑剔而兴奋的老人。

After these came a huge Negress clothed like Solomon as to colors. Her great eyes rolled in evident terror, first toward the jungle and then toward the cursing band of sailors who were removing the bales and boxes from the boats.
在这些人之后是一个巨大的黑人，穿着颜色像所罗门一样。她的大眼睛明显充满了恐惧，先是看向丛林，然后看向正在从船上搬走捆包和箱子的咒骂的水手们。

The last member of the party to disembark was a girl of about nineteen, and it was the young man who stood at the boat’s prow to lift her high and dry upon land. She gave him a brave and pretty smile of thanks, but no words passed between them.
最后一个下船的人是一个十九岁左右的女孩，正是那个年轻人站在船头把船高高地举到陆地上。她给了他一个勇敢而美丽的微笑，表示感谢，但他们之间没有说话。

In silence the party advanced toward the cabin. It was evident that whatever their intentions, all had been decided upon before they left the ship; and so they came to the door, the sailors carrying the boxes and bales, followed by the five who were of so different a class. The men put down their burdens, and then one caught sight of the notice which Tarzan had posted.
一行人默默地向小屋走去。显然，无论他们的意图如何，在他们离开船只之前，一切都已经决定了。于是他们来到了门口，水手们抬着箱子和大包货物，后面跟着五个不同阶层的人。人们放下手中的担子，然后有人看到了泰山张贴的告示。

‘Ho, mates!’ he cried. ‘What’s here? This sign was not posted an hour ago or I’ll eat the cook.’
“哈喽，伙计们！”他喊道。 ‘这里是什么？这个标志一小时前还没有贴出来，不然我就把厨师吃了。”

The others gathered about, craning their necks over the shoulders of those before them, but as few of them could read at all, and then only after the most laborious fashion, one finally turned to the little old man of the top hat and frock coat.
其他人围了过来，把脖子伸到前面那些人的肩膀上，但他们中几乎没有人能读懂，然后只有在最费力的方式之后，一个人终于转向那个戴着高礼帽、穿着礼服的小老头。 。

‘Hi, perfesser,’ he called, ‘step for’rd and read the bloomin’ notis.’
“嗨，教授，”他喊道，“请向前走，读一下盛开的通知。”

Thus addressed, the old man came slowly to where the sailors stood, followed by the other members of his party. Adjusting his spectacles he looked for a moment at the placard and then, turning away, strolled off muttering to himself: ‘Most remarkable—most remarkable!’
如此说道，老人慢慢地来到水手们站立的地方，后面跟着他一行人的其他成员。他调整了一下眼镜，看了一会儿标语牌，然后转身走开，一边自言自语道：“最了不起——最了不起！”

‘Hi, old fossil,’ cried the man who had first called on him for assistance, ‘did je think we wanted of you to read the bloomin’ notis to yourself? Come back here and read it out loud, you old barnacle.’
“嗨，老化石，”第一个向他寻求帮助的人喊道，“我认为我们想让你自己读一下开花通知吗？”回到这里大声读出来吧，你这个老藤壶。”

The old man stopped and, turning back, said: ‘Oh, yes, my dear sir, a thousand pardons. It was quite thoughtless of me, yes—very thoughtless. Most remarkable—most remarkable!’
老人停下来，转过身来，说道：“哦，是的，亲爱的先生，一千次赦免。”我真是太不考虑了，是的——非常不考虑。最了不起——最了不起！”

Again he faced the notice and read it through, and doubtless would have turned off again to ruminate upon it had not the sailor grasped him roughly by the collar and howled into his ear.
他再次面对那张告示，读了一遍，如果不是水手粗鲁地抓住他的衣领，对着他的耳朵嚎叫，他无疑会再次停下来思考它。

‘Read it out loud, you blithering old idiot.’
“大声读出来，你这个胡言乱语的老白痴。”

‘Ah, yes indeed, yes indeed,’ replied the professor softly, and adjusting his spectacles once more he read aloud:
“啊，是的，是的，”教授轻声回答，然后再次调整眼镜，大声朗读道：

THIS IS THE HOUSE OF TARZAN, THE KILLER OF BEASTS AND MANY BLACK MEN. DO NOT HARM THE THINGS WHICH ARE TARZAN’S. TARZAN WATCHES. TARZAN OF THE APES.
这是人猿泰山的家，他是野兽和许多黑人的杀手。不要伤害泰山的东西。泰山手表。人猿泰山。

‘Who the devil is Tarzan?’ cried the sailor who had before spoken.
“泰山到底是谁？”先前说话的水手喊道。

‘He evidently speaks English,’ said the young man.
“他显然会说英语，”年轻人说。

‘But what does ‘Tarzan of the Apes’ mean?’ cried the girl.
“但是‘人猿泰山’是什么意思呢？”女孩喊道。

‘I do not know, Miss Porter,’ replied the young man, ‘unless we have discovered a runaway simian from the London Zoo who has brought back a European education to his jungle home. What do you make of it, Professor Porter?’ he added, turning to the old man.
“我不知道，波特小姐，”年轻人回答道，“除非我们在伦敦动物园发现了一只逃跑的猿猴，它把欧洲教育带回了他的丛林之家。波特教授，你对此有何看法？”他转向老人补充道。

Professor Archimedes Q. Porter adjusted his spectacles.
阿基米德·Q·波特教授调整了眼镜。

‘Ah, yes, indeed; yes indeed—most remarkable, most remarkable!’ said the professor; ‘but I can add nothing further to what I have already remarked in elucidation of this truly momentous occurrence,’ and the professor turned slowly in the direction of the jungle.
‘啊，是的，确实如此；是的，确实如此——最了不起，最了不起！”教授说。 “但对于我已经说过的关于这一真正重大事件的解释，我无法再做任何进一步的补充。”教授慢慢地转向丛林的方向。

‘But, papa,’ cried the girl, ‘you haven’t said anything about it yet.’
“但是，爸爸，”女孩叫道，“你还没有说过这件事呢。”

‘Tut, tut, child; tut, tut,’ responded Professor Porter, in a kindly and indulgent tone, ‘do not trouble your pretty head with such weighty and abstruse problems,’ and again he wandered slowly off in still another direction, his eyes bent upon the ground at his feet, his hands clasped behind him beneath the flowing tails of his coat.
‘啧，啧，孩子； “啧，啧，”波特教授用一种和蔼而宽容的语气回答道，“别用这么重大而深奥的问题来困扰你漂亮的头脑。”然后他又慢慢地朝另一个方向走去，他的眼睛低垂在地面上。他的双手交叉在身后，藏在飘逸的外套下摆中。

‘I reckon the daffy old bounder don’t know no more’n we do about it,’ growled the rat-faced sailor.
“我想那个愚蠢的老船长并不比我们更了解这件事，”鼠脸水手咆哮道。

‘Keep a civil tongue in your head,’ cried the young man, his face paling in anger, at the insulting tone of the sailor. ‘You’ve murdered our officers and robbed us. We are absolutely in your power, but you’ll treat Professor Porter and Miss Porter with respect or I’ll break that vile neck of yours with my bare hands—guns or no guns,’ and the young fellow stepped so close to the rat-faced sailor that the latter, though he bore two revolvers and a villainous looking knife in his belt, slunk back abashed.
“脑子里要保持文明的语言，”年轻人喊道，他的脸因水手侮辱性的语气而变得苍白。 “你们谋杀了我们的军官并抢劫了我们。我们绝对在你的权力之下，但你要尊重波特教授和波特小姐，否则我会徒手扭断你那可恶的脖子——不管有枪还是没有枪。”年轻人离老鼠如此之近。面对水手，后者虽然带着两把左轮手枪，腰带上别着一把看起来很邪恶的刀，却羞愧地溜了回去。

‘You damned coward,’ cried the young man. ‘You’d never dare shoot a man until his back was turned. You don’t dare shoot me even then,’ and he deliberately turned his back full upon the sailor and walked nonchalantly away as if to put him to the test.
“你这个该死的胆小鬼，”年轻人叫道。 “除非一个人转过身去，否则你永远不敢向他开枪。到时候你也不敢向我开枪。”他故意背对着水手，若无其事地走开，仿佛要考验他。

The sailor’s hand crept slyly to the butt of one of his revolvers; his wicked eyes glared vengefully at the retreating form of the young Englishman. The gaze of his fellows was upon him, but still he hesitated. At heart he was even a greater coward than Mr. William Cecil Clayton had imagined.
水手的手狡猾地伸向他的一把左轮手枪的枪托。他邪恶的眼睛复仇地瞪着那个年轻英国人远去的背影。同伴们的目光都落在了他的身上，但他还是犹豫了。从本质上来说，他比威廉·塞西尔·克莱顿先生想象的还要胆小。

Two keen eyes had watched every move of the party from the foliage of a nearby tree. Tarzan had seen the surprise caused by his notice, and while he could understand nothing of the spoken language of these strange people their gestures and facial expressions told him much.
两只敏锐的眼睛从附近一棵树的叶子上注视着一行人的一举一动。泰山看到了他的注意所带来的惊讶，虽然他听不懂这些奇怪的人的语言，但他们的手势和面部表情却告诉了他很多东西。

The act of the little rat-faced sailor in killing one of his comrades had aroused a strong dislike in Tarzan, and now that he saw him quarreling with the fine-looking young man his animosity was still further stirred.
鼠脸小水手杀死自己战友的行为，引起了泰山的强烈反感，现在看到他与英俊的年轻人争吵，更是更加激起了他的仇恨。

Tarzan had never seen the effects of a firearm before, though his books had taught him something of them, but when he saw the rat-faced one fingering the butt of his revolver he thought of the scene he had witnessed so short a time before, and naturally expected to see the young man murdered as had been the huge sailor earlier in the day.
泰山以前从未见过枪械的效果，尽管他的书教过他一些东西，但当他看到鼠脸的人用手指抚摸他的左轮手枪的枪托时，他想起了他不久前亲眼目睹的场景，自然地期望看到这个年轻人被谋杀，就像当天早些时候那个巨大的水手一样。

So Tarzan fitted a poisoned arrow to his bow and drew a bead upon the rat-faced sailor, but the foliage was so thick that he soon saw the arrow would be deflected by the leaves or some small branch, and instead he launched a heavy spear from his lofty perch.
于是泰山在他的弓上装了一支毒箭，并在鼠脸水手身上画了一颗珠子，但树叶太厚了，他很快就发现箭会被树叶或一些小树枝偏转，于是他发射了一支重型长矛从他崇高的地位。

Clayton had taken but a dozen steps. The rat-faced sailor had half drawn his revolver; the other sailors stood watching the scene intently.
克莱顿只走了十几步。鼠脸水手的左轮手枪已经拔出了一半。其他水手站在那儿全神贯注地看着这一幕。

Professor Porter had already disappeared into the jungle, whither he was being followed by the fussy Samuel T. Philander, his secretary and assistant.
波特教授已经消失在丛林中，他的秘书兼助理、爱挑剔的塞缪尔·T·菲兰德（Samuel T. Philander）紧随其后。

Esmeralda, the Negress, was busy sorting her mistress’ baggage from the pile of bales and boxes beside the cabin, and Miss Porter had turned away to follow Clayton, when something caused her to turn again toward the sailor.
黑人女艾斯梅拉达正忙着从船舱旁边的一堆捆包和箱子里整理她女主人的行李，波特小姐转身去追克莱顿，这时有什么东西让她再次转向水手。

And then three things happened almost simultaneously. The sailor jerked out his weapon and leveled it at Clayton’s back, Miss Porter screamed a warning, and a long, metalshod spear shot like a bolt from above and passed entirely through the right shoulder of the rat-faced man.
然后三件事几乎同时发生。水手猛地抽出武器，对准克莱顿的后背，波特小姐尖声警告，一根长长的金属长矛如闪电般从上方射出，彻底贯穿了鼠脸男人的右肩。

The revolver exploded harmlessly in the air, and the seaman crumpled up with a scream of pain and terror.
左轮手枪在空中爆炸，没有造成任何伤害，水手因痛苦和恐惧的尖叫而倒在地上。

Clayton turned and rushed back toward the scene. The sailors stood in a frightened group, with drawn weapons, peering into the jungle. The wounded man writhed and shrieked upon the ground.
克莱顿转身冲回现场。水手们惊慌失措地站在一起，拔出武器，凝视着丛林。受伤的男子在地上翻滚并尖叫。

Clayton, unseen by any, picked up the fallen revolver and slipped it inside his shirt, then he joined the sailors in gazing, mystified, into the jungle.
克莱顿在没人看见的情况下捡起掉落的左轮手枪，将其塞进衬衫内，然后他和水手们一起迷惑地凝视着丛林。

‘Who could it have been?’ whispered Jane Porter, and the young man turned to see her standing, wide-eyed and wondering, close beside him.
“这会是谁？”简·波特低声问道，年轻人转过身来，看到她站在他身边，睁大眼睛，满脸疑惑。

‘I dare say Tarzan of the Apes is watching us all right,’ he answered, in a dubious tone. ‘I wonder, now, who that spear was intended for. If for Snipes, then our ape friend is a friend indeed.
“我敢说人猿泰山正在看着我们，”他用怀疑的语气回答道。 “现在我想知道这支长矛是为谁准备的。如果对于鹬来说，那么我们的猿朋友确实是朋友。

‘By jove, where are your father and Mr. Philander? There’s someone or something in that jungle, and it’s armed, whatever it is. Ho! Professor! Mr. Philander!’ young Clayton shouted. There was no response.
“天啊，你父亲和菲兰德先生在哪儿？”丛林里有某人或某物，而且它携带武器，不管它是什么。嗬！教授！ “菲兰德先生！”年轻的克莱顿喊道。没有回应。

‘What’s to be done, Miss Porter?’ continued the young man, his face clouded by a frown of worry and indecision.
“该怎么办，波特小姐？”年轻人继续说道，他的脸因忧虑和犹豫而皱起眉头。

‘I can’t leave you here alone with these cutthroats, and you certainly can’t venture into the jungle with me; yet someone must go in search of your father. He is more than apt to wandering off aimlessly, regardless of danger or direction, and Mr. Philander is only a trifle less impractical than he. You will pardon my bluntness, but our lives are all in jeopardy here, and when we get your father back something must be done to impress upon him the dangers to which he exposes you as well as himself by his absent-mindedness.’
“我不能把你和这些杀手单独留在这里，你当然也不能和我一起冒险进入丛林；但必须有人去寻找你的父亲。他很容易漫无目的地徘徊，无论危险或方向如何，菲兰德先生只比他稍微不切实际。请原谅我的直言不讳，但是我们的生命都处于危险之中，当我们把你父亲带回来时，必须采取措施让他记住，他的心不在焉会给你和他自己带来危险。

‘I quite agree with you,’ replied the girl, ‘and I am not offended at all. Dear old papa would sacrifice his life for me without an instant’s hesitation, provided one could keep his mind on so frivolous a matter for an entire instant. There is only one way to keep him in safety, and that is to chain him to a tree. The poor dear is SO impractical.’
“我非常同意你的观点，”女孩回答道，“而且我一点也不生气。”亲爱的老爸爸，只要你能在这么琐碎的事情上保持一瞬间的专注，他就会毫不犹豫地为我牺牲自己的生命。只有一种方法可以保证他的安全，那就是把他锁在树上。可怜的亲爱的太不切实际了。

‘I have it!’ suddenly exclaimed Clayton. ‘You can use a revolver, can’t you?’
“我找到了！”克莱顿突然喊道。 “你可以使用左轮手枪，不是吗？”

‘Yes. Why?’
'是的。为什么？'

‘I have one. With it you and Esmeralda will be comparatively safe in this cabin while I am searching for your father and Mr. Philander. Come, call the woman and I will hurry on. They can’t have gone far.’
'我有一个。有了它，当我寻找你的父亲和菲兰德先生时，你和埃斯梅拉达在这个小屋里就会相对安全。来吧，给那个女人打电话，我就赶紧走。他们不可能走得太远。

Jane did as he suggested and when he saw the door close safely behind them Clayton turned toward the jungle.
简按照他的建议做了，当他看到门在他们身后安全关上时，克莱顿转向丛林。

Some of the sailors were drawing the spear from their wounded comrade and, as Clayton approached, he asked if he could borrow a revolver from one of them while he searched the jungle for the professor.
一些水手正在从受伤的战友身上拔出长矛，当克莱顿走近时，他问他是否可以向其中一个人借一把左轮手枪，同时他在丛林中寻找教授。

The rat-faced one, finding he was not dead, had regained his composure, and with a volley of oaths directed at Clayton refused in the name of his fellows to allow the young man any firearms.
老鼠脸的人发现自己没有死，恢复了镇定，对着克莱顿发了一连串的誓言，以同伴的名义拒绝让这个年轻人拥有任何枪支。

This man, Snipes, had assumed the role of chief since he had killed their former leader, and so little time had elapsed that none of his companions had as yet questioned his authority.
这个名叫斯奈普斯的人自从杀死了他们的前任领袖后就担任了酋长的角色，而且时间如此之短，以至于他的同伴还没有质疑他的权威。

Clayton’s only response was a shrug of the shoulders, but as he left them he picked up the spear which had transfixed Snipes, and thus primitively armed, the son of the then Lord Greystoke strode into the dense jungle.
克莱顿唯一的反应是耸了耸肩，但当他离开他们时，他拿起了刺穿斯奈普斯的长矛，就这样，当时格雷斯托克勋爵的儿子带着原始的武装，大步走进了茂密的丛林。

Every few moments he called aloud the names of the wanderers. The watchers in the cabin by the beach heard the sound of his voice growing ever fainter and fainter, until at last it was swallowed up by the myriad noises of the primeval wood.
他每隔一会儿就大声喊出流浪者的名字。海边小屋里的守望者听到他的声音越来越微弱，最后被原始森林的无数噪音所吞没。

When Professor Archimedes Q. Porter and his assistant, Samuel T. Philander, after much insistence on the part of the latter, had finally turned their steps toward camp, they were as completely lost in the wild and tangled labyrinth of the matted jungle as two human beings well could be, though they did not know it.
当阿基米德·Q·波特教授和他的助手塞缪尔·T·菲兰德在后者的极力坚持下，最终转向营地时，他们完全迷失在丛林的狂野和错综复杂的迷宫中，就像两个人一样。人类很可能如此，尽管他们并不知道。

It was by the merest caprice of fortune that they headed toward the west coast of Africa, instead of toward Zanzibar on the opposite side of the dark continent.
完全是命运的偶然，他们才前往非洲西海岸，而不是前往黑暗大陆另一边的桑给巴尔。

When in a short time they reached the beach, only to find no camp in sight, Philander was positive that they were north of their proper destination, while, as a matter of fact they were about two hundred yards south of it.
当他们在很短的时间内到达海滩时，却发现看不到任何营地，菲兰德确信他们已经在正确目的地的北部，而事实上，他们在目的地以南大约两百码处。

It never occurred to either of these impractical theorists to call aloud on the chance of attracting their friends’ attention. Instead, with all the assurance that deductive reasoning from a wrong premise induces in one, Mr. Samuel T. Philander grasped Professor Archimedes Q. Porter firmly by the arm and hurried the weakly protesting old gentleman off in the direction of Cape Town, fifteen hundred miles to the south.
这些不切实际的理论家从来没有想过大声喊叫来吸引朋友的注意。相反，塞缪尔·T·菲兰德先生确信从错误的前提出发进行演绎推理，他紧紧抓住阿基米德·Q·波特教授的手臂，催促这位微弱抗议的老绅士向开普敦方向走去，一千五百英里。向南数英里。

When Jane and Esmeralda found themselves safely behind the cabin door the Negress’s first thought was to barricade the portal from the inside. With this idea in mind she turned to search for some means of putting it into execution; but her first view of the interior of the cabin brought a shriek of terror to her lips, and like a frightened child the huge woman ran to bury her face on her mistress’ shoulder.
当简和埃斯梅拉达发现自己安全地躲在小屋门后时，黑女侠的第一个想法就是从里面封锁大门。有了这个想法，她开始寻找一些将其付诸实施的方法。但当她第一眼看到小屋的内部时，她的嘴里发出了一声恐惧的尖叫，就像一个受惊的孩子一样，这个身材魁梧的女人跑过去，把脸埋在了女主人的肩膀上。

Jane, turning at the cry, saw the cause of it lying prone upon the floor before them—the whitened skeleton of a man. A further glance revealed a second skeleton upon the bed.
简听到这声叫喊，转过头来，看到叫喊的原因就趴在他们面前的地板上——一具惨白的男人骨架。再一看，床上又出现了第二具骷髅。

‘What horrible place are we in?’ murmured the awe-struck girl. But there was no panic in her fright.
“我们这是在一个多么可怕的地方？”女孩满脸敬畏地低声说道。但她的惊恐中并没有惊慌。

At last, disengaging herself from the frantic clutch of the still shrieking Esmeralda, Jane crossed the room to look into the little cradle, knowing what she should see there even before the tiny skeleton disclosed itself in all its pitiful and pathetic frailty.
最后，简从仍在尖叫的埃斯梅拉达的疯狂手中挣脱出来，穿过房间，朝小摇篮里看去，知道在这个小小的骷髅显露出它所有可怜而可悲的脆弱之前，她应该在那里看到什么。

What an awful tragedy these poor mute bones proclaimed! The girl shuddered at thought of the eventualities which might lie before herself and her friends in this ill-fated cabin, the haunt of mysterious, perhaps hostile, beings.
这些可怜的哑巴宣告了一场多么可怕的悲剧啊！想到在这间不幸的小屋里，她和她的朋友们可能面临的不测事件，女孩不寒而栗，这里是神秘的、也许是敌对的生物出没的地方。

Quickly, with an impatient stamp of her little foot, she endeavored to shake off the gloomy forebodings, and turning to Esmeralda bade her cease her wailing.
很快，她不耐烦地跺着小脚，努力摆脱阴郁的预感，然后转向埃斯梅拉达，吩咐她停止哭泣。

‘Stop, Esmeralda, stop it this minute!’ she cried. ‘You are only making it worse.’
“停下来，埃斯梅拉达，马上停下来！”她喊道。 “你只会让事情变得更糟。”

She ended lamely, a little quiver in her own voice as she thought of the three men, upon whom she depended for protection, wandering in the depth of that awful forest.
她蹩脚地结束了，当她想到她赖以保护的三个男人在那片可怕的森林深处徘徊时，她自己的声音有点颤抖。

Soon the girl found that the door was equipped with a heavy wooden bar upon the inside, and after several efforts the combined strength of the two enabled them to slip it into place, the first time in twenty years.
很快，女孩发现门的内侧有一根厚重的木条，经过几番努力，两人合力才将门推入到位，这是二十年来的第一次。

Then they sat down upon a bench with their arms about one another, and waited.
然后他们坐在一张长凳上，互相抱臂，等待着。

Chapter 14
第14章


At the Mercy of the Jungle
在丛林的怜悯下

After Clayton had plunged into the jungle, the sailors —mutineers of the Arrow—fell into a discussion of their next step; but on one point all were agreed—that they should hasten to put off to the anchored Arrow, where they could at least be safe from the spears of their unseen foe. And so, while Jane Porter and Esmeralda were barricading themselves within the cabin, the cowardly crew of cutthroats were pulling rapidly for their ship in the two boats that had brought them ashore.
克莱顿潜入丛林后，水手们——箭号的叛变者——开始讨论他们的下一步行动；但有一点大家都同意——他们应该赶紧出发前往停泊的箭号，在那里他们至少可以安全地免受看不见的敌人的长矛攻击。因此，当简·波特和埃斯梅拉达把自己关在船舱里时，胆怯的凶手船员们却用把他们送上岸的两艘船迅速拉向他们的船。

So much had Tarzan seen that day that his head was in a whirl of wonder. But the most wonderful sight of all, to him, was the face of the beautiful white girl.
那天，泰山看到了太多的事情，以至于他的脑子里充满了惊奇。但对他来说，最美妙的景象是那个美丽的白人女孩的脸。

Here at last was one of his own kind; of that he was positive. And the young man and the two old men; they, too, were much as he had pictured his own people to be.
他终于找到了自己的同类。他对此持积极态度。还有那个年轻人和两个老人；他们也和他想象中的自己的人民一样。

But doubtless they were as ferocious and cruel as other men he had seen. The fact that they alone of all the party were unarmed might account for the fact that they had killed no one. They might be very different if provided with weapons.
但毫无疑问，他们和他见过的其他人一样凶猛残忍。他们中只有他们没有携带武器，这一事实也许可以解释他们没有杀死任何人的事实。如果配备武器，他们可能会非常不同。

Tarzan had seen the young man pick up the fallen revolver of the wounded Snipes and hide it away in his breast; and he had also seen him slip it cautiously to the girl as she entered the cabin door.
泰山看到年轻人捡起受伤的鹬掉落的左轮手枪，并将其藏在胸前。当女孩走进舱门时，他还看到他小心翼翼地把它递给她。

He did not understand anything of the motives behind all that he had seen; but, somehow, intuitively he liked the young man and the two old men, and for the girl he had a strange longing which he scarcely understood. As for the big black woman, she was evidently connected in some way to the girl, and so he liked her, also.
他完全不明白他所看到的一切背后的动机。但不知何故，他本能地喜欢这个年轻人和两个老人，而对于那个女孩，他有一种他几乎无法理解的奇怪的渴望。至于那个黑人大女人，显然她和那个女孩有某种联系，所以他也喜欢她。

For the sailors, and especially Snipes, he had developed a great hatred. He knew by their threatening gestures and by the expression upon their evil faces that they were enemies of the others of the party, and so he decided to watch closely.
他对水手们，尤其是斯奈普斯，产生了极大的仇恨。从他们威胁性的手势和邪恶面孔的表情中，他知道他们是队伍中其他人的敌人，因此他决定密切关注。

Tarzan wondered why the men had gone into the jungle, nor did it ever occur to him that one could become lost in that maze of undergrowth which to him was as simple as is the main street of your own home town to you.
泰山想知道为什么这些人要进入丛林，他也没有想到一个人可能会在灌木丛的迷宫中迷路，对他来说，这就像你自己家乡的主要街道一样简单。

When he saw the sailors row away toward the ship, and knew that the girl and her companion were safe in his cabin, Tarzan decided to follow the young man into the jungle and learn what his errand might be. He swung off rapidly in the direction taken by Clayton, and in a short time heard faintly in the distance the now only occasional calls of the Englishman to his friends.
当泰山看到水手们向船驶去，并知道女孩和她的同伴在他的船舱里很安全时，他决定跟随年轻人进入丛林，了解他的任务可能是什么。他迅速转向克莱顿所走的方向，不久之后，就听到远处隐隐约约地传来英国人现在只是偶尔对他的朋友们的呼唤声。

Presently Tarzan came up with the white man, who, almost fagged, was leaning against a tree wiping the perspiration from his forehead. The ape-man, hiding safe behind a screen of foliage, sat watching this new specimen of his own race intently.
不久，泰山找到了那个白人，他几乎疲惫不堪，正靠在一棵树上擦着额头上的汗水。猿人安全地躲在树叶后面，专注地看着这个他自己种族的新标本。

At intervals Clayton called aloud and finally it came to Tarzan that he was searching for the old man.
克莱顿时不时地大声叫喊，最后泰山得知他正在寻找老人。

Tarzan was on the point of going off to look for them himself, when he caught the yellow glint of a sleek hide moving cautiously through the jungle toward Clayton.
泰山正要亲自去找他们，这时他看到一张光滑的兽皮发出黄色的光芒，小心翼翼地穿过丛林朝克莱顿走去。

It was Sheeta, the leopard. Now, Tarzan heard the soft bending of grasses and wondered why the young white man was not warned. Could it be he had failed to note the loud warning? Never before had Tarzan known Sheeta to be so clumsy.
那是豹希达。现在，泰山听到了草丛轻轻弯曲的声音，他想知道为什么这个年轻的白人没有受到警告。难道他没有注意到这响亮的警告？泰山以前从未知道希达如此笨拙。

No, the white man did not hear. Sheeta was crouching for the spring, and then, shrill and horrible, there rose from the stillness of the jungle the awful cry of the challenging ape, and Sheeta turned, crashing into the underbrush.
不，白人没有听到。希达蹲伏着等待春天，然后，寂静的丛林中传来了那只具有挑战性的猿猴的可怕叫声，尖锐而可怕，于是希达转过身，撞进了灌木丛。

Clayton came to his feet with a start. His blood ran cold. Never in all his life had so fearful a sound smote upon his ears. He was no coward; but if ever man felt the icy fingers of fear upon his heart, William Cecil Clayton, eldest son of Lord Greystoke of England, did that day in the fastness of the African jungle.
克莱顿猛地站了起来。他的血液都变冷了。他一生中从未有过如此可怕的声音传入他的耳朵。他不是胆小鬼；他是个胆小鬼。但如果说有人感到恐惧冰冷地触动了他的心，那一天，英国格雷斯托克勋爵的长子威廉·塞西尔·克莱顿就在非洲丛林的要塞里感受到了。

The noise of some great body crashing through the underbrush so close beside him, and the sound of that bloodcurdling shriek from above, tested Clayton’s courage to the limit; but he could not know that it was to that very voice he owed his life, nor that the creature who hurled it forth was his own cousin—the real Lord Greystoke.
某个巨大的身躯从离他如此近的灌木丛中冲出的声音，以及从上方传来的令人毛骨悚然的尖叫声，都在考验着克莱顿的勇气。但他不知道正是那个声音让他失去了生命，也不知道那个投掷生命的生物是他自己的表弟——真正的格雷斯托克勋爵。

The afternoon was drawing to a close, and Clayton, disheartened and discouraged, was in a terrible quandary as to the proper course to pursue; whether to keep on in search of Professor Porter, at the almost certain risk of his own death in the jungle by night, or to return to the cabin where he might at least serve to protect Jane from the perils which confronted her on all sides.
下午即将结束，克莱顿心灰意冷，陷入了可怕的困境，不知道该走什么正确的道路。是继续寻找波特教授，冒着晚上在丛林中几乎肯定会丧命的危险，还是返回小屋，在那里他至少可以保护简免受来自各方面的危险。

He did not wish to return to camp without her father; still more, he shrank from the thought of leaving her alone and unprotected in the hands of the mutineers of the Arrow, or to the hundred unknown dangers of the jungle.
他不想在没有她父亲的情况下返回营地。更重要的是，一想到要把她孤身一人、毫无保护地丢在绿箭侠的叛乱分子手中，或者置身于丛林中数百种未知的危险之中，他就不敢想了。

Possibly, too, he thought, the professor and Philander might have returned to camp. Yes, that was more than likely. At least he would return and see, before he continued what seemed to be a most fruitless quest. And so he started, stumbling back through the thick and matted underbrush in the direction that he thought the cabin lay.
他想，教授和菲兰德也可能已经回到营地了。是的，这很有可能。至少在他继续看似毫无结果的探索之前，他会回来看看。于是他开始了，跌跌撞撞地穿过浓密而杂乱的灌木丛，朝他认为小屋所在的方向走去。

To Tarzan’s surprise the young man was heading further into the jungle in the general direction of Mbonga’s village, and the shrewd young ape-man was convinced that he was lost.
令泰山惊讶的是，这个年轻人正朝着姆邦加村庄的大致方向深入丛林，而这个精明的年轻猿人确信他迷路了。

To Tarzan this was scarcely incomprehensible; his judgment told him that no man would venture toward the village of the cruel blacks armed only with a spear which, from the awkward way in which he carried it, was evidently an unaccustomed weapon to this white man. Nor was he following the trail of the old men. That, they had crossed and left long since, though it had been fresh and plain before Tarzan’s eyes.
对于泰山来说，这几乎是不可理解的。他的判断告诉他，没有人会冒险前往残酷的黑人村庄，只携带一支长矛，从他拿着长矛的笨拙方式来看，这显然对这个白人来说是一种不习惯的武器。他也没有追随老人的足迹。那是他们早已穿越并离开的，尽管在泰山的眼前却是新鲜而平淡的。

Tarzan was perplexed. The fierce jungle would make easy prey of this unprotected stranger in a very short time if he were not guided quickly to the beach.
泰山很困惑。如果没有迅速引导他到海滩，凶猛的丛林将在很短的时间内成为这个没有保护的陌生人的猎物。

Yes, there was Numa, the lion, even now, stalking the white man a dozen paces to the right.
是的，狮子努玛现在就在右边十几步处跟踪白人。

Clayton heard the great body paralleling his course, and now there rose upon the evening air the beast’s thunderous roar. The man stopped with upraised spear and faced the brush from which issued the awful sound. The shadows were deepening, darkness was settling in.
克莱顿听到那巨大的身体与他的路线平行，现在傍晚的空气中响起了野兽雷鸣般的咆哮。那人停了下来，举起长矛，面对着发出可怕声音的灌木丛。阴影越来越深，黑暗降临。

God! To die here alone, beneath the fangs of wild beasts; to be torn and rended; to feel the hot breath of the brute on his face as the great paw crushed down up his breast!
上帝！独自死在这里，死在野兽的毒牙之下；被撕裂和撕裂；当那只粗爪子踩在他的胸口时，他能感觉到那畜生的灼热呼吸喷在他的脸上！

For a moment all was still. Clayton stood rigid, with raised spear. Presently a faint rustling of the bush apprised him of the stealthy creeping of the thing behind. It was gathering for the spring. At last he saw it, not twenty feet away—the long, lithe, muscular body and tawny head of a huge black-maned lion.
一时之间，一切都静止了。克莱顿僵硬地站着，举起长矛。不久，灌木丛发出微弱的沙沙声，让他知道后面有东西正在悄悄爬行。这是春天的聚集。最后他在不到二十英尺远的地方看到了——一头巨大的黑鬃狮子，修长、柔软、肌肉发达的身体和黄褐色的头。

The beast was upon its belly, moving forward very slowly. As its eyes met Clayton’s it stopped, and deliberately, cautiously gathered its hind quarters behind it.
野兽趴在地上，缓慢地向前移动。当它的目光与克莱顿的目光相遇时，它停了下来，并故意、小心翼翼地将后躯收在身后。

In agony the man watched, fearful to launch his spear, powerless to fly.
那人痛苦地看着，不敢发射长矛，却无力飞翔。

He heard a noise in the tree above him. Some new danger, he thought, but he dared not take his eyes from the yellow green orbs before him. There was a sharp twang as of a broken banjo-string, and at the same instant an arrow appeared in the yellow hide of the crouching lion.
他听到头顶的树上有响动。某种新的危险，他想，但他不敢把目光从面前的黄绿色球体上移开。一声尖锐的响声，就像班卓琴弦断了一样，与此同时，一只箭出现在蹲着的狮子的黄色皮毛上。

With a roar of pain and anger the beast sprang; but, somehow, Clayton stumbled to one side, and as he turned again to face the infuriated king of beasts, he was appalled at the sight which confronted him. Almost simultaneously with the lion’s turning to renew the attack a half-naked giant dropped from the tree above squarely on the brute’s back.
野兽发出一声痛苦而愤怒的咆哮，跳了起来。但是，不知何故，克莱顿跌跌撞撞地走到一边，当他再次转身面对愤怒的兽王时，他对眼前的景象感到震惊。几乎就在狮子转身继续攻击的同时，一个半裸的巨人从树上掉下来，正好落在狮子的背上。

With lightning speed an arm that was banded layers of iron muscle encircled the huge neck, and the great beast was raised from behind, roaring and pawing the air—raised as easily as Clayton would have lifted a pet dog.
一条由一层层钢铁肌肉包裹的手臂以闪电般的速度环住了巨大的脖子，这头巨兽从后面举了起来，咆哮着，用爪子抓着空气——举起来就像克莱顿举起一只宠物狗一样容易。

The scene he witnessed there in the twilight depths of the African jungle was burned forever into the Englishman’s brain.
他在非洲丛林的暮色深处亲眼目睹的场景永远铭刻在英国人的脑海中。

The man before him was the embodiment of physical perfection and giant strength; yet it was not upon these he depended in his battle with the great cat, for mighty as were his muscles, they were as nothing by comparison with Numa’s. To his agility, to his brain and to his long keen knife he owed his supremacy.
他面前的这个人是完美身体和巨大力量的化身。然而，他在与大猫的战斗中所依赖的并不是这些，因为尽管他的肌肉很强大，但与努玛的肌肉相比，它们还是微不足道的。凭借他的敏捷性、大脑和锋利的长刀，他获得了至高无上的地位。

His right arm encircled the lion’s neck, while the left hand plunged the knife time and again into the unprotected side behind the left shoulder. The infuriated beast, pulled up and backwards until he stood upon his hind legs, struggled impotently in this unnatural position.
他的右臂环住狮子的脖子，左手则一次又一次地将刀刺入左肩后面毫无保护的一侧。愤怒的野兽被拉起并向后退，直到他用后腿站起来，以这种不自然的姿势无力地挣扎。

Had the battle been of a few seconds’ longer duration the outcome might have been different, but it was all accomplished so quickly that the lion had scarce time to recover from the confusion of its surprise ere it sank lifeless to the ground.
如果战斗持续的时间再长几秒钟，结果可能会有所不同，但一切都完成得如此之快，以至于狮子几乎没有时间从惊讶的混乱中恢复过来，就毫无生气地倒在了地上。

Then the strange figure which had vanquished it stood erect upon the carcass, and throwing back the wild and handsome head, gave out the fearsome cry which a few moments earlier had so startled Clayton.
然后，那个征服了它的奇怪的身影直立在尸体上，向后仰起狂野而英俊的头，发出了几分钟前让克莱顿震惊的可怕叫声。

Before him he saw the figure of a young man, naked except for a loin cloth and a few barbaric ornaments about arms and legs; on the breast a priceless diamond locket gleaming against a smooth brown skin.
在他面前，他看到了一个年轻人的身影，他全身赤裸，只裹着一块腰布，胳膊和腿上还戴着一些野蛮的饰物。胸前有一个无价的钻石挂坠盒，在光滑的棕色皮肤的映衬下闪闪发光。

The hunting knife had been returned to its homely sheath, and the man was gathering up his bow and quiver from where he had tossed them when he leaped to attack the lion.
猎刀已经回到了它平常的刀鞘里，那人正在收起他跳起来攻击狮子时扔掉的弓箭和箭袋。

Clayton spoke to the stranger in English, thanking him for his brave rescue and complimenting him on the wondrous strength and dexterity he had displayed, but the only answer was a steady stare and a faint shrug of the mighty shoulders, which might betoken either disparagement of the service rendered, or ignorance of Clayton’s language.
克莱顿用英语对陌生人说话，感谢他勇敢的营救，并称赞他所表现出的惊人的力量和灵巧，但唯一的答案是坚定的凝视和强大的肩膀微微耸耸肩，这可能表示对他的蔑视。所提供的服务，或对克莱顿语言的无知。

When the bow and quiver had been slung to his back the wild man, for such Clayton now thought him, once more drew his knife and deftly carved a dozen large strips of meat from the lion’s carcass. Then, squatting upon his haunches, he proceeded to eat, first motioning Clayton to join him.
当弓箭和箭袋挂在背上时，这个野人（克莱顿现在认为他就是这个野人）再次拔出刀，熟练地从狮子的尸体上切下了十几条大肉条。然后，他蹲下来开始吃饭，首先示意克莱顿加入他。

The strong white teeth sank into the raw and dripping flesh in apparent relish of the meal, but Clayton could not bring himself to share the uncooked meat with his strange host; instead he watched him, and presently there dawned upon him the conviction that this was Tarzan of the Apes, whose notice he had seen posted upon the cabin door that morning.
坚固的白色牙齿陷入了生的、滴着水的肉中，显然对这顿饭很满意，但克莱顿无法让自己与他陌生的主人分享这块生肉；相反，他注视着他，不久他就意识到这就是人猿泰山，那天早上他在小屋门上看到了他的告示。

If so he must speak English.
如果是这样，他一定会说英语。

Again Clayton attempted speech with the ape-man; but the replies, now vocal, were in a strange tongue, which resembled the chattering of monkeys mingled with the growling of some wild beast.
克莱顿再次尝试与猿人交谈。但现在的回答是用一种奇怪的语言，就像猴子的叽叽喳喳声和某种野兽的咆哮声。

No, this could not be Tarzan of the Apes, for it was very evident that he was an utter stranger to English.
不，这不可能是人猿泰山，因为很明显他对英语完全陌生。

When Tarzan had completed his repast he rose and, pointing a very different direction from that which Clayton had been pursuing, started off through the jungle toward the point he had indicated.
当泰山吃完饭后，他站了起来，指向了一个与克莱顿一直在追寻的方向截然不同的方向，开始穿过丛林朝他所指的地方走去。

Clayton, bewildered and confused, hesitated to follow him, for he thought he was but being led more deeply into the mazes of the forest; but the ape-man, seeing him disinclined to follow, returned, and, grasping him by the coat, dragged him along until he was convinced that Clayton understood what was required of him. Then he left him to follow voluntarily.
克莱顿感到困惑和迷惑，犹豫着是否要跟随他，因为他认为自己只是被带入了森林迷宫的更深处；但他并没有这么做。但猿人见他不愿意跟着，就回来了，抓住他的外套，拖着他走，直到他确信克莱顿明白他需要做什么。然后就留他自愿跟随。

The Englishman, finally concluding that he was a prisoner, saw no alternative open but to accompany his captor, and thus they traveled slowly through the jungle while the sable mantle of the impenetrable forest night fell about them, and the stealthy footfalls of padded paws mingled with the breaking of twigs and the wild calls of the savage life that Clayton felt closing in upon him.
英国人最终得出结论，他是一名囚犯，除了陪伴他的俘虏之外，别无选择，于是他们慢慢地穿过丛林，密不透风的森林之夜的黑貂皮披风落在他们身上，垫着垫子的爪子的悄悄脚步声混杂在一起。克莱顿感觉到树枝的折断和野蛮生活的狂野呼唤正在向他逼近。

Suddenly Clayton heard the faint report of a firearm—a single shot, and then silence.
突然，克莱顿听到微弱的枪声——一声枪响，然后一片寂静。

In the cabin by the beach two thoroughly terrified women clung to each other as they crouched upon the low bench in the gathering darkness.
在海滩边的小屋里，两个完全被吓坏了的女人在逐渐变暗的夜色中蹲在矮凳上，紧紧地抱在一起。

The Negress sobbed hysterically, bemoaning the evil day that had witnessed her departure from her dear Maryland, while the white girl, dry eyed and outwardly calm, was torn by inward fears and forebodings. She feared not more for herself than for the three men whom she knew to be wandering in the abysmal depths of the savage jungle, from which she now heard issuing the almost incessant shrieks and roars, barkings and growlings of its terrifying and fearsome denizens as they sought their prey.
黑人歇斯底里地抽泣着，哀叹着她离开亲爱的马里兰州的邪恶日子，而白人女孩，眼睛干涩，表面平静，内心却被恐惧和不祥的预感所撕裂。她担心的并不多于她自己，而是她所知道的三个男人，他们在野蛮丛林的深渊深处徘徊，她现在听到从那里发出几乎不间断的尖叫声、咆哮声、吠叫声和咆哮声，这些都是可怕的居民的声音。寻找他们的猎物。

And now there came the sound of a heavy body brushing against the side of the cabin. She could hear the great padded paws upon the ground outside. For an instant, all was silence; even the bedlam of the forest died to a faint murmur. Then she distinctly heard the beast outside sniffing at the door, not two feet from where she crouched. Instinctively the girl shuddered, and shrank closer to the black woman.
这时，传来沉重的身体擦过船舱侧面的声音。她能听到外面有垫子的大爪子踩在地上的声音。一时间，万籁俱寂；就连森林里的混乱也消失了，发出微弱的低语声。然后她清楚地听到外面的野兽在距离她蹲下的地方不到两英尺的地方嗅着门。女孩本能地颤抖起来，向黑人女子靠得更近。

‘Hush!’ she whispered. ‘Hush, Esmeralda,’ for the woman’s sobs and groans seemed to have attracted the thing that stalked there just beyond the thin wall.
“嘘！”她低声说道。 “嘘，埃斯梅拉达，”女人的抽泣和呻吟似乎吸引了那只在薄墙外悄悄潜行的东西。

A gentle scratching sound was heard on the door. The brute tried to force an entrance; but presently this ceased, and again she heard the great pads creeping stealthily around the cabin. Again they stopped—beneath the window on which the terrified eyes of the girl now glued themselves.
门上传来轻轻的刮擦声。这头野兽试图强行闯入，但没能成功。但不久这一切就停止了，她又听到巨大的脚垫在小屋周围悄悄爬行的声音。他们再次停了下来——在窗户下面，女孩惊恐的眼睛此时粘在了窗户上。

‘God!’ she murmured, for now, silhouetted against the moonlit sky beyond, she saw framed in the tiny square of the latticed window the head of a huge lioness. The gleaming eyes were fixed upon her in intent ferocity.
“上帝！”她低声说道，此刻，在月光下的天空映衬下，她看到格子窗的小方块里有一头巨大的母狮的头。那双闪闪发亮的眼睛专注地注视着她。

‘Look, Esmeralda!’ she whispered. ‘For God’s sake, what shall we do? Look! Quick! The window!’
“看，埃斯梅拉达！”她低声说道。 ‘看在上帝的份上，我们该怎么办？看！快的！窗户！'

Esmeralda, cowering still closer to her mistress, took one frightened glance toward the little square of moonlight, just as the lioness emitted a low, savage snarl.
埃斯梅拉达畏缩得离她的女主人更近了，她惊恐地朝月光下的小广场看了一眼，这时母狮发出了一声低沉而野蛮的咆哮。

The sight that met the poor woman’s eyes was too much for the already overstrung nerves.
可怜的女人眼前所见的景象让她已经过度紧张的神经难以承受。

‘Oh, Gaberelle!’ she shrieked, and slid to the floor an inert and senseless mass.
“哦，加贝雷尔！”她尖叫着，滑到地板上，毫无知觉，毫无生气。

For what seemed an eternity the great brute stood with its forepaws upon the sill, glaring into the little room. Presently it tried the strength of the lattice with its great talons.
这只巨大的野兽将前爪放在窗台上，盯着这个小房间，似乎有永恒的时间。不久，它用它巨大的爪子尝试了格子的强度。

The girl had almost ceased to breathe, when, to her relief, the head disappeared and she heard the brute’s footsteps leaving the window. But now they came to the door again, and once more the scratching commenced; this time with increasing force until the great beast was tearing at the massive panels in a perfect frenzy of eagerness to seize its defenseless victims.
女孩几乎停止了呼吸，这时，头消失了，她听到了野兽离开窗户的脚步声，这让她松了口气。但现在他们又来到门口，又开始抓挠。这一次，力量越来越大，直到这头巨兽疯狂地撕扯巨大的面板，渴望抓住手无寸铁的受害者。

Could Jane have known the immense strength of that door, built piece by piece, she would have felt less fear of the lioness reaching her by this avenue.
如果简知道那扇逐一建造的门的巨大力量，她就不会那么害怕母狮从这条大道接近她了。

Little did John Clayton imagine when he fashioned that crude but mighty portal that one day, twenty years later, it would shield a fair American girl, then unborn, from the teeth and talons of a man-eater.
约翰·克莱顿（John Clayton）在建造这个简陋但强大的门户时，几乎没有想到，二十年后的某一天，它会保护一位当时尚未出生的美丽的美国女孩免受食人者的牙齿和爪子的侵害。

For fully twenty minutes the brute alternately sniffed and tore at the door, occasionally giving voice to a wild, savage cry of baffled rage. At length, however, she gave up the attempt, and Jane heard her returning toward the window, beneath which she paused for an instant, and then launched her great weight against the timeworn lattice.
在整整二十分钟的时间里，这个畜生交替地嗅着、撕扯着门，偶尔发出一声莫名其妙的愤怒的狂野、野蛮的叫喊。然而，最终她放弃了这个尝试，简听到她朝窗户走去，在窗户下面停了一会儿，然后用她巨大的重量撞上了陈旧的格子。

The girl heard the wooden rods groan beneath the impact; but they held, and the huge body dropped back to the ground below.
女孩听到木棒在撞击下发出呻吟声。但他们坚持住了，巨大的身体又落回了下面的地面。

Again and again the lioness repeated these tactics, until finally the horrified prisoner within saw a portion of the lattice give way, and in an instant one great paw and the head of the animal were thrust within the room.
母狮一遍又一遍地重复这些策略，直到最后，里面惊恐的囚犯看到格子的一部分塌陷，瞬间一只大爪子和动物的头被塞进了房间。

Slowly the powerful neck and shoulders spread the bars apart, and the lithe body protruded farther and farther into the room.
有力的脖子和肩膀慢慢地把栅栏分开，柔软的身体在房间里伸得越来越远。

As in a trance, the girl rose, her hand upon her breast, wide eyes staring horror-stricken into the snarling face of the beast scarce ten feet from her. At her feet lay the prostrate form of the Negress. If she could but arouse her, their combined efforts might possibly avail to beat back the fierce and bloodthirsty intruder.
女孩恍惚地站了起来，她的手放在胸前，睁大眼睛惊恐地盯着距离她不到十英尺的野兽咆哮的脸。在她的脚下躺着那个黑人的身影。只要能够唤醒她，他们的合力或许就能击退凶残嗜血的入侵者。

Jane stooped to grasp the black woman by the shoulder. Roughly she shook her.
简弯下腰抓住黑人妇女的肩膀。粗暴地摇晃着她。

‘Esmeralda! Esmeralda!’ she cried. ‘Help me, or we are lost.’
“埃斯梅拉达！埃斯梅拉达！”她喊道。 “帮帮我，不然我们就迷路了。”

Esmeralda opened her eyes. The first object they encountered was the dripping fangs of the hungry lioness.
埃斯梅拉达睁开了眼睛。他们遇到的第一个物体是饥饿的母狮滴着水的尖牙。

With a horrified scream the poor woman rose to her hands and knees, and in this position scurried across the room, shrieking: ‘O Gaberelle! O Gaberelle!’ at the top of her lungs.
可怜的女人发出一声惊恐的尖叫，用手和膝盖站了起来，以这个姿势急忙穿过房间，尖叫道：‘哦，加贝雷尔！噢，加贝雷尔！”她大声喊道。

Esmeralda weighed some two hundred and eighty pounds, and her extreme haste, added to her extreme corpulency, produced a most amazing result when Esmeralda elected to travel on all fours.
埃斯梅拉达体重约两百八十磅，她极度匆忙，加上她极度肥胖，当埃斯梅拉达选择四肢行走时，产生了最令人惊奇的结果。

For a moment the lioness remained quiet with intense gaze directed upon the flitting Esmeralda, whose goal appeared to be the cupboard, into which she attempted to propel her huge bulk; but as the shelves were but nine or ten inches apart, she only succeeded in getting her head in; whereupon, with a final screech, which paled the jungle noises into insignificance, she fainted once again.
有那么一会儿，母狮保持着安静，目光紧盯着飞过的埃斯梅拉达，埃斯梅拉达的目标似乎是橱柜，她试图把自己巨大的身躯推进去。但由于架子之间只有九或十英寸的距离，她只能把头伸进去。随后，伴随着最后一声尖叫，丛林里的噪音变得微不足道，她再次昏了过去。

With the subsidence of Esmeralda the lioness renewed her efforts to wriggle her huge bulk through the weakening lattice.
随着埃斯梅拉达号的下沉，母狮再次努力蠕动自己庞大的身躯，穿过日益衰弱的格子。

The girl, standing pale and rigid against the farther wall, sought with ever-increasing terror for some loophole of escape. Suddenly her hand, tight-pressed against her bosom, felt the hard outline of the revolver that Clayton had left with her earlier in the day.
女孩脸色苍白，僵硬地靠在远处的墙上，越来越害怕地寻找逃生的漏洞。突然，她的手紧紧地贴在胸前，感觉到了克莱顿当天早些时候留给她的左轮手枪的坚硬轮廓。

Quickly she snatched it from its hiding-place, and, leveling it full at the lioness’s face, pulled the trigger.
她迅速从藏身之处抓起它，将其对准母狮的脸，扣动了扳机。

There was a flash of flame, the roar of the discharge, and an answering roar of pain and anger from the beast.
火焰一闪，放电发出轰鸣声，野兽发出痛苦和愤怒的咆哮作为回应。

Jane Porter saw the great form disappear from the window, and then she, too, fainted, the revolver falling at her side.
简·波特看到那巨大的身影从窗口消失，然后她也晕了过去，左轮手枪掉落在她身边。

But Sabor was not killed. The bullet had but inflicted a painful wound in one of the great shoulders. It was the surprise at the blinding flash and the deafening roar that had caused her hasty but temporary retreat.
但萨博尔并没有被杀。子弹只是在其中一只巨大的肩膀上造成了痛苦的伤口。正是那耀眼的闪光和震耳欲聋的轰鸣声让她感到惊讶，才导致她仓促但暂时的撤退。

In another instant she was back at the lattice, and with renewed fury was clawing at the aperture, but with lessened effect, since the wounded member was almost useless.
又一瞬间，她又回到了格子处，并以新的愤怒抓着缝隙，但效果减弱了，因为受伤的成员几乎毫无用处。

She saw her prey—the two women—lying senseless upon the floor. There was no longer any resistance to be overcome. Her meat lay before her, and Sabor had only to worm her way through the lattice to claim it.
她看到她的猎物——那两个女人——毫无知觉地躺在地板上。不再有任何阻力需要克服。她的肉摆在她面前，萨博只需爬过格子就能得到它。

Slowly she forced her great bulk, inch by inch, through the opening. Now her head was through, now one great forearm and shoulder.
她慢慢地用自己巨大的身躯，一寸一寸地穿过开口。现在她的头已经穿过了，现在只剩下一只巨大的前臂和肩膀了。

Carefully she drew up the wounded member to insinuate it gently beyond the tight pressing bars.
她小心翼翼地拉起受伤的成员，轻轻地将其移出紧压的栏杆。

A moment more and both shoulders through, the long, sinuous body and the narrow hips would glide quickly after.
再过一会儿，双肩通过，修长蜿蜒的身体和狭窄的臀部就会迅速滑行。

It was on this sight that Jane Porter again opened her eyes.
正是这一幕，简·波特再次睁开了眼睛。

Chapter 15
第15章


The Forest God
森林之神

When Clayton heard the report of the firearm he fell into an agony of fear and apprehension. He knew that one of the sailors might be the author of it; but the fact that he had left the revolver with Jane, together with the overwrought condition of his nerves, made him morbidly positive that she was threatened with some great danger. Perhaps even now she was attempting to defend herself against some savage man or beast.
当克莱顿听到枪支的报告时，他陷入了恐惧和忧虑的痛苦之中。他知道其中一位水手可能是这本书的作者；但事实上，他把左轮手枪留给了简，再加上他的神经过度紧张，使他病态地确信她正受到某种巨大危险的威胁。也许现在她就在试图保护自己免受某些野蛮人或野兽的侵害。

What were the thoughts of his strange captor or guide Clayton could only vaguely conjecture; but that he had heard the shot, and was in some manner affected by it was quite evident, for he quickened his pace so appreciably that Clayton, stumbling blindly in his wake, was down a dozen times in as many minutes in a vain effort to keep pace with him, and soon was left hopelessly behind.
克莱顿只能模糊地猜测他的奇怪俘虏或向导的想法是什么；他的想法是什么？但是他听到了枪声，并且在某种程度上受到了影响，这是相当明显的，因为他明显加快了步伐，以至于克莱顿在他身后盲目地绊倒，在几分钟内徒劳地摔倒了十几次。跟上他的步伐，很快就被无可救药地抛在了后面。

Fearing that he would again be irretrievably lost, he called aloud to the wild man ahead of him, and in a moment had the satisfaction of seeing him drop lightly to his side from the branches above.
他担心自己会再次迷路，无法挽回，他大声呼唤着前面的野人，片刻后，他很满意地看到他从上面的树枝上轻轻地落到了自己的身边。

For a moment Tarzan looked at the young man closely, as though undecided as to just what was best to do; then, stooping down before Clayton, he motioned him to grasp him about the neck, and, with the white man upon his back, Tarzan took to the trees.
有那么一会儿，泰山仔细地看着这个年轻人，似乎不确定该怎么做才是最好的。然后，他在克莱顿面前弯下腰，示意克莱顿抓住他的脖子，泰山背着白人，走上了树林。

The next few minutes the young Englishman never forgot. High into bending and swaying branches he was borne with what seemed to him incredible swiftness, while Tarzan chafed at the slowness of his progress.
接下来的几分钟，这位年轻的英国人永远不会忘记。他高高地爬进弯曲摇曳的树枝上，速度之快令人难以置信，而泰山则对他的缓慢进展感到恼火。

From one lofty branch the agile creature swung with Clayton through a dizzy arc to a neighboring tree; then for a hundred yards maybe the sure feet threaded a maze of interwoven limbs, balancing like a tightrope walker high above the black depths of verdure beneath.
这个敏捷的生物从一根高高的树枝上与克莱顿一起摆动，穿过令人晕眩的弧线到达附近的一棵树。然后，在一百码的路程中，可靠的双脚也许会穿过四肢交织的迷宫，像走钢丝的人一样保持平衡，高高在下面的黑色深翠之上。

From the first sensation of chilling fear Clayton passed to one of keen admiration and envy of those giant muscles and that wondrous instinct or knowledge which guided this forest god through the inky blackness of the night as easily and safely as Clayton would have strolled a London street at high noon.
从最初的令人毛骨悚然的恐惧感，克莱顿转而对那些巨大的肌肉以及奇妙的本能或知识产生了强烈的钦佩和嫉妒，引导这位森林之神轻松安全地穿过漆黑的夜晚，就像克莱顿在伦敦街道上漫步一样正午时分。

Occasionally they would enter a spot where the foliage above was less dense, and the bright rays of the moon lit up before Clayton’s wondering eyes the strange path they were traversing.
偶尔他们会进入一个上面树叶不那么茂密的地方，明亮的月光照亮了克莱顿好奇的眼睛，照亮了他们正在走的奇怪的道路。

At such times the man fairly caught his breath at sight of the horrid depths below them, for Tarzan took the easiest way, which often led over a hundred feet above the earth.
在这种时候，这个人一看到下面可怕的深度，就会屏住呼吸，因为泰山选择了最简单的方法，通常距离地面一百多英尺。

And yet with all his seeming speed, Tarzan was in reality feeling his way with comparative slowness, searching constantly for limbs of adequate strength for the maintenance of this double weight.
然而，尽管泰山表面上速度很快，但实际上他的摸索速度相对较慢，不断地寻找有足够力量的四肢来维持这种双重重量。

Presently they came to the clearing before the beach. Tarzan’s quick ears had heard the strange sounds of Sabor’s efforts to force her way through the lattice, and it seemed to Clayton that they dropped a straight hundred feet to earth, so quickly did Tarzan descend. Yet when they struck the ground it was with scarce a jar; and as Clayton released his hold on the ape-man he saw him dart like a squirrel for the opposite side of the cabin.
不一会儿，他们就来到了海滩前的空地。泰山敏锐的耳朵听到了萨伯强行穿过格子的奇怪声音，在克莱顿看来，他们直接从地面坠落了一百英尺，泰山下降得如此之快。然而，当它们落地时，地面几乎没有一个罐子；当克莱顿松开猿人时，他看到他像松鼠一样冲向小屋的另一侧。

The Englishman sprang quickly after him just in time to see the hind quarters of some huge animal about to disappear through the window of the cabin.
英国人迅速追上他，正好看到某种巨大动物的后躯即将从船舱的窗户消失。

As Jane opened her eyes to a realization of the imminent peril which threatened her, her brave young heart gave up at last its final vestige of hope. But then to her surprise she saw the huge animal being slowly drawn back through the window, and in the moonlight beyond she saw the heads and shoulders of two men.
当简睁开眼睛，意识到威胁她的迫在眉睫的危险时，她勇敢年轻的心终于放弃了最后一丝希望。但令她惊讶的是，她看到这只巨大的动物被慢慢地从窗户里拉了回来，在远处的月光下，她看到了两个男人的头和肩膀。

As Clayton rounded the corner of the cabin to behold the animal disappearing within, it was also to see the ape-man seize the long tail in both hands, and, bracing himself with his feet against the side of the cabin, throw all his mighty strength into the effort to draw the beast out of the interior.
当克莱顿绕过小屋的角落，看到动物消失在里面时，他也看到猿人双手抓住长尾巴，用脚抵住小屋的一侧，用尽全身力气。努力将野兽从内部拉出来。

Clayton was quick to lend a hand, but the ape-man jabbered to him in a commanding and peremptory tone something which Clayton knew to be orders, though he could not understand them.
克莱顿很快就伸出了援手，但猿人用命令和专横的语气对他喋喋不休，克莱顿知道这是命令，尽管他听不懂。

At last, under their combined efforts, the great body was slowly dragged farther and farther outside the window, and then there came to Clayton’s mind a dawning conception of the rash bravery of his companion’s act.
最后，在他们的共同努力下，巨大的身躯被慢慢地拖到窗外越来越远，克莱顿的脑海中浮现出他同伴的鲁莽勇敢行为的一个清晰的概念。

For a naked man to drag a shrieking, clawing man-eater forth from a window by the tail to save a strange white girl, was indeed the last word in heroism.
一个赤身裸体的男人抓住一只尖叫着、抓着爪子的食人兽的尾巴，从窗户里拖出来，拯救一个陌生的白人女孩，这确实是英雄主义的硬道理。

Insofar as Clayton was concerned it was a very different matter, since the girl was not only of his own kind and race, but was the one woman in all the world whom he loved.
就克莱顿而言，这是一件非常不同的事情，因为这个女孩不仅是他的同类和种族，而且是他在全世界所爱的唯一女人。

Though he knew that the lioness would make short work of both of them, he pulled with a will to keep it from Jane Porter. And then he recalled the battle between this man and the great, black-maned lion which he had witnessed a short time before, and he commenced to feel more assurance.
尽管他知道母狮很快就能解决掉他们两个，但他还是用意志力拉着它不让简·波特碰上。然后他想起不久前亲眼目睹的这个人与黑鬃巨狮的战斗，他开始感到更有把握了。

Tarzan was still issuing orders which Clayton could not understand.
泰山仍在发出克莱顿听不懂的命令。

He was trying to tell the stupid white man to plunge his poisoned arrows into Sabor’s back and sides, and to reach the savage heart with the long, thin hunting knife that hung at Tarzan’s hip; but the man would not understand, and Tarzan did not dare release his hold to do the things himself, for he knew that the puny white man never could hold mighty Sabor alone, for an instant.
他试图告诉那个愚蠢的白人，用他的毒箭刺入萨博尔的背部和两侧，并用挂在泰山臀部的细长猎刀刺入野蛮人的心脏；但这个人不会明白，泰山也不敢松开自己的手去做这些事情，因为他知道这个弱小的白人永远无法单独抓住强大的萨博尔，哪怕是一瞬间。

Slowly the lioness was emerging from the window. At last her shoulders were out.
慢慢地，母狮从窗口出现了。最后她的肩膀露出来了。

And then Clayton saw an incredible thing. Tarzan, racking his brains for some means to cope single-handed with the infuriated beast, had suddenly recalled his battle with Terkoz; and as the great shoulders came clear of the window, so that the lioness hung upon the sill only by her forepaws, Tarzan suddenly released his hold upon the brute.
然后克莱顿看到了令人难以置信的事情。泰山绞尽脑汁寻找单枪匹马对付这头愤怒的野兽的方法，突然想起了他与泰尔科兹的战斗；当巨大的肩膀离开窗户，母狮只能用前爪挂在窗台上时，泰山突然松开了对这只野兽的控制。

With the quickness of a striking rattler he launched himself full upon Sabor’s back, his strong young arms seeking and gaining a full-Nelson upon the beast, as he had learned it that other day during his bloody, wrestling victory over Terkoz.
他以惊人的响尾蛇般的速度猛扑到萨博尔的背上，他年轻有力的手臂正在寻找并在这头野兽身上获得了完全的纳尔逊，正如他在前几天与泰尔科兹的血腥摔跤胜利中所学到的那样。

With a roar the lioness turned completely over upon her back, falling full upon her enemy; but the black-haired giant only closed tighter his hold.
母狮一声吼叫，彻底翻身仰面朝敌人扑去。但黑发巨人却将手握得更紧。

Pawing and tearing at earth and air, Sabor rolled and threw herself this way and that in an effort to dislodge this strange antagonist; but ever tighter and tighter drew the iron bands that were forcing her head lower and lower upon her tawny breast.
萨博用爪子撕扯着大地和空气，翻滚着，左右翻滚，试图将这个奇怪的对手赶走。但铁带却越来越紧，迫使她的头越来越低地贴在黄褐色的乳房上。

Higher crept the steel forearms of the ape-man about the back of Sabor’s neck. Weaker and weaker became the lioness’s efforts.
猿人的钢铁前臂爬得更高，爬到了萨博尔的脖子后面。母狮的努力越来越弱。

At last Clayton saw the immense muscles of Tarzan’s shoulders and biceps leap into corded knots beneath the silver moonlight. There was a long sustained and supreme effort on the ape-man’s part—and the vertebrae of Sabor’s neck parted with a sharp snap.
最后，克莱顿看到泰山肩膀和二头肌的巨大肌肉在银色月光下跳跃成绳结。猿人做出了长时间持续的、最大的努力——萨博尔的颈椎突然裂开。

In an instant Tarzan was upon his feet, and for the second time that day Clayton heard the bull ape’s savage roar of victory. Then he heard Jane’s agonized cry:
瞬间，泰山站了起来，克莱顿在这一天第二次听到了牛猿胜利的野蛮咆哮。然后他就听到简痛苦的叫声：

‘Cecil—Mr. Clayton! Oh, what is it? What is it?’
‘塞西尔——先生。克莱顿！哦，那是什么？它是什么？'

Running quickly to the cabin door, Clayton called out that all was right, and shouted to her to open the door. As quickly as she could she raised the great bar and fairly dragged Clayton within.
克莱顿快步跑到小屋门口，大喊一切都好，并大声叫她把门打开。她尽快举起大栏杆，将克莱顿拖了进去。

‘What was that awful noise?’ she whispered, shrinking close to him.
“那可怕的声音是什么？”她低声说道，缩得更近了。

‘It was the cry of the kill from the throat of the man who has just saved your life, Miss Porter. Wait, I will fetch him so you may thank him.’
“这是刚刚救了你一命的人喉咙里发出的杀戮的呼喊，波特小姐。等等，我去叫他来，这样你就可以感谢他了。”

The frightened girl would not be left alone, so she accompanied Clayton to the side of the cabin where lay the dead body of the lioness.
受惊的女孩不愿独自留下，于是她陪着克莱顿来到了躺着母狮尸体的小屋一侧。

Tarzan of the Apes was gone.
人猿泰山不见了。

Clayton called several times, but there was no reply, and so the two returned to the greater safety of the interior.
克莱顿打了几次电话，但没有任何回应，于是两人回到了更安全的内陆地区。

‘What a frightful sound!’ cried Jane, ‘I shudder at the mere thought of it. Do not tell me that a human throat voiced that hideous and fearsome shriek.’
“多么可怕的声音啊！”简叫道，“一想到它我就浑身发抖。”别告诉我那可怕的尖叫声是人的喉咙发出的。”

‘But it did, Miss Porter,’ replied Clayton; ‘or at least if not a human throat that of a forest god.’
“但是确实如此，波特小姐，”克莱顿回答道。 “或者至少，如果不是人类的喉咙，那就是森林之神的喉咙。”

And then he told her of his experiences with this strange creature—of how twice the wild man had saved his life—of the wondrous strength, and agility, and bravery—of the brown skin and the handsome face.
然后他告诉她他与这个奇怪生物的经历——这个野人如何两次救了他的命——奇妙的力量、敏捷和勇敢——棕色的皮肤和英俊的脸。

‘I cannot make it out at all,’ he concluded. ‘At first I thought he might be Tarzan of the Apes; but he neither speaks nor understands English, so that theory is untenable.’
“我根本听不懂，”他总结道。 “一开始我以为他可能是人猿泰山；但他既不会说也不懂英语，所以这个理论是站不住脚的。”

‘Well, whatever he may be,’ cried the girl, ‘we owe him our lives, and may God bless him and keep him in safety in his wild and savage jungle!’
“好吧，不管他是什么，”女孩喊道，“我们都欠他一条命，愿上帝保佑他，让他在荒野和野蛮的丛林中保持安全！”

‘Amen,’ said Clayton, fervently.
“阿门，”克莱顿热切地说。

‘For the good Lord’s sake, ain’t I dead?’
“看在上帝的份上，我不是已经死了吗？”

The two turned to see Esmeralda sitting upright upon the floor, her great eyes rolling from side to side as though she could not believe their testimony as to her whereabouts.
两人转过身来，看到埃斯梅拉达笔直地坐在地板上，她的大眼睛从一边转到另一边，似乎不敢相信他们关于她所在位置的证词。

And now, for Jane Porter, the reaction came, and she threw herself upon the bench, sobbing with hysterical laughter.
现在，对于简·波特来说，反应来了，她扑倒在长凳上，歇斯底里地大笑，抽泣着。

Chapter 16
第16章


‘Most Remarkable”
“最引人注目”

Several miles south of the cabin, upon a strip of sandy beach, stood two old men, arguing.
小屋南边几英里处的一片沙滩上，站着两个老人，正在争论。

Before them stretched the broad Atlantic. At their backs was the Dark Continent. Close around them loomed the impenetrable blackness of the jungle.
他们面前是一望无际的广阔大西洋。他们的背后，是黑暗大陆。他们周围隐约可见密不透风的黑暗丛林。

Savage beasts roared and growled; noises, hideous and weird, assailed their ears. They had wandered for miles in search of their camp, but always in the wrong direction. They were as hopelessly lost as though they suddenly had been transported to another world.
猛兽咆哮、咆哮；可怕而怪异的噪音袭击了他们的耳朵。他们徘徊了数英里寻找自己的营地，但总是走错方向。他们绝望地迷失了方向，仿佛突然被带到了另一个世界。

At such a time, indeed, every fiber of their combined intellects must have been concentrated upon the vital question of the minute—the life-and-death question to them of retracing their steps to camp.
事实上，在这样的时刻，他们的所有智慧都必须集中在当前至关重要的问题上——对他们来说，返回营地的生死攸关的问题。

Samuel T. Philander was speaking.
塞缪尔·T·菲兰德正在讲话。

‘But, my dear professor,’ he was saying, ‘I still maintain that but for the victories of Ferdinand and Isabella over the fifteenth-century Moors in Spain the world would be today a thousand years in advance of where we now find ourselves. The Moors were essentially a tolerant, broad-minded, liberal race of agriculturists, artisans and merchants—the very type of people that has made possible such civilization as we find today in America and Europe—while the Spaniards—‘
“但是，我亲爱的教授，”他说，“我仍然认为，如果没有费迪南德和伊莎贝拉在十五世纪西班牙战胜摩尔人，今天的世界将会比我们现在所处的位置提前一千年。摩尔人本质上是一个由农业家、工匠和商人组成的宽容、心胸宽广、自由的种族——正是这些人使我们今天在美国和欧洲发现的文明成为可能——而西班牙人——

‘Tut, tut, dear Mr. Philander,’ interrupted Professor Porter; ‘their religion positively precluded the possibilities you suggest. Moslemism was, is, and always will be, a blight on that scientific progress which has marked—‘
“哎呀，哎呀，亲爱的菲兰德先生，”波特教授打断道。 “他们的宗教信仰完全排除了你所建议的可能性。穆斯林主义过去、现在、将来都将是对科学进步的损害，而科学进步标志着——”

‘Bless me! Professor,’ interjected Mr. Philander, who had turned his gaze toward the jungle, ‘there seems to be someone approaching.’
'保佑我（宗教！教授，”菲兰德先生将目光转向丛林，插话道，“似乎有人正在靠近。”

Professor Archimedes Q. Porter turned in the direction indicated by the nearsighted Mr. Philander.
阿基米德·Q·波特教授转向近视眼的菲兰德先生所指的方向。

‘Tut, tut, Mr. Philander,’ he chided. ‘How often must I urge you to seek that absolute concentration of your mental faculties which alone may permit you to bring to bear the highest powers of intellectuality upon the momentous problems which naturally fall to the lot of great minds? And now I find you guilty of a most flagrant breach of courtesy in interrupting my learned discourse to call attention to a mere quadruped of the genus FELIS. As I was saying, Mr.—‘
“噗，噗，菲兰德先生，”他斥责道。 “我必须多少次敦促你寻求精神能力的绝对集中，只有这样才能让你发挥最高的智力力量来解决自然属于伟大思想家的重大问题？现在，我发现你打断了我的学术演讲，以引起人们对猫属四足动物的注意，这是一种公然违反礼貌的行为。正如我所说，先生——”

‘Heavens, Professor, a lion?’ cried Mr. Philander, straining his weak eyes toward the dim figure outlined against the dark tropical underbrush.
“天啊，教授，是一头狮子吗？”菲兰德先生大声喊道，用他那双虚弱的眼睛注视着黑色热带灌木丛中勾勒出的模糊身影。

‘Yes, yes, Mr. Philander, if you insist upon employing slang in your discourse, a ‘lion.’ But as I was saying—‘
“是的，是的，菲兰德先生，如果你坚持在谈话中使用俚语，‘狮子’。但正如我所说的——”

‘Bless me, Professor,’ again interrupted Mr. Philander; ‘permit me to suggest that doubtless the Moors who were conquered in the fifteenth century will continue in that most regrettable condition for the time being at least, even though we postpone discussion of that world calamity until we may attain the enchanting view of yon FELIS CARNIVORA which distance proverbially is credited with lending.’
“保佑我，教授，”菲兰德先生再次打断道。 “请允许我提出，毫无疑问，在十五世纪被征服的摩尔人至少暂时将继续处于最令人遗憾的境地，尽管我们推迟讨论那场世界灾难，直到我们能够看到费利斯食肉动物的迷人景色。”众所周知，这段距离被视为贷款。

In the meantime the lion had approached with quiet dignity to within ten paces of the two men, where he stood curiously watching them.
与此同时，狮子安静而庄重地走近了两人十步以内，站在那儿好奇地看着他们。

The moonlight flooded the beach, and the strange group stood out in bold relief against the yellow sand.
月光洒满了海滩，这群奇怪的人在黄沙的映衬下显得格外醒目。

‘Most reprehensible, most reprehensible,’ exclaimed Professor Porter, with a faint trace of irritation in his voice. ‘Never, Mr. Philander, never before in my life have I known one of these animals to be permitted to roam at large from its cage. I shall most certainly report this outrageous breach of ethics to the directors of the adjacent zoological garden.’
“最应受谴责，最应受谴责。”波特教授大声说道，声音中带着一丝恼怒。 “菲兰德先生，在我的一生中，我从来没有见过这些动物被允许在笼子里自由漫步。我肯定会向邻近动物园的园长报告这种严重违反道德的行为。

‘Quite right, Professor,’ agreed Mr. Philander, ‘and the sooner it is done the better. Let us start now.’
“非常正确，教授，”菲兰德先生表示同意，“而且越早完成越好。”让我们现在开始吧。

Seizing the professor by the arm, Mr. Philander set off in the direction that would put the greatest distance between themselves and the lion.
菲兰德先生抓住教授的手臂，朝与狮子距离最远的方向走去。

They had proceeded but a short distance when a backward glance revealed to the horrified gaze of Mr. Philander that the lion was following them. He tightened his grip upon the protesting professor and increased his speed.
他们只走了一小段距离，费兰德先生惊恐地回头一看，发现狮子正在跟踪他们。他握紧了抗议的教授，加快了速度。

‘As I was saying, Mr. Philander,’ repeated Professor Porter.
“正如我所说，菲兰德先生，”波特教授重复道。

Mr. Philander took another hasty glance rearward. The lion also had quickened his gait, and was doggedly maintaining an unvarying distance behind them.
菲兰德先生又匆匆向后看了一眼。狮子也加快了脚步，顽强地跟在他们身后保持着不变的距离。

‘He is following us!’ gasped Mr. Philander, breaking into a run.
“他在跟着我们！”菲兰德先生喘着气说道，拔腿就跑。

‘Tut, tut, Mr. Philander,’ remonstrated the professor, ‘this unseemly haste is most unbecoming to men of letters. What will our friends think of us, who may chance to be upon the street and witness our frivolous antics? Pray let us proceed with more decorum.’
“噗，噗，菲兰德先生，”教授抗议道，“这种不合时宜的仓促对于文人来说是最不合适的。”如果我们的朋友有机会在街上目睹我们轻浮的滑稽行为，他们会怎么看我们呢？请让我们更加礼貌地进行。

Mr. Philander stole another observation astern.
菲兰德先生在船尾偷了另一个观察结果。

The lion was bounding along in easy leaps scarce five paces behind.
狮子轻松地跳跃着，只落后五步。

Mr. Philander dropped the professor’s arm, and broke into a mad orgy of speed that would have done credit to any varsity track team.
菲兰德先生松开了教授的手臂，开始了疯狂的速度狂欢，这对任何大学田径队来说都是值得赞扬的。

‘As I was saying, Mr. Philander—‘ screamed Professor Porter, as, metaphorically speaking, he himself ‘threw her into high.’ He, too, had caught a fleeting backward glimpse of cruel yellow eyes and half open mouth within startling proximity of his person.
“正如我所说的，菲兰德先生——”波特教授尖叫道，打个比方，他自己“把她扔到了高处。”他也向后一瞥，看到残酷的黄眼睛和半张着的嘴，距离惊人的近。他的人。

With streaming coat tails and shiny silk hat Professor Archimedes Q. Porter fled through the moonlight close upon the heels of Mr. Samuel T. Philander.
阿基米德·Q·波特教授穿着飘逸的大衣下摆，戴着闪亮的丝质帽子，在月光下紧追塞缪尔·T·菲兰德先生。

Before them a point of the jungle ran out toward a narrow promontory, and it was for the heaven of the trees he saw there that Mr. Samuel T. Philander directed his prodigious leaps and bounds; while from the shadows of this same spot peered two keen eyes in interested appreciation of the race.
在他们面前，丛林的一个角落一直延伸到一个狭窄的海角，塞缪尔·T·菲兰德先生就是为了那里的树木天堂而指挥他惊人的跳跃的。而在同一地点的阴影下，有两只敏锐的眼睛正在饶有兴趣地欣赏这场比赛。

It was Tarzan of the Apes who watched, with face a-grin, this odd game of follow-the-leader.
人猿泰山笑着观看了这场奇怪的追随者游戏。

He knew the two men were safe enough from attack in so far as the lion was concerned. The very fact that Numa had foregone such easy prey at all convinced the wise forest craft of Tarzan that Numa’s belly already was full.
他知道，就狮子而言，这两个人足够安全，不会受到攻击。努玛放弃了如此容易的猎物，这一事实让泰山聪明的森林手艺确信努玛的肚子已经饱了。

The lion might stalk them until hungry again; but the chances were that if not angered he would soon tire of the sport, and slink away to his jungle lair.
狮子可能会跟踪他们直到再次饥饿；但如果不被激怒，他很可能很快就会厌倦这项运动，并溜进他的丛林巢穴。

Really, the one great danger was that one of the men might stumble and fall, and then the yellow devil would be upon him in a moment and the joy of the kill would be too great a temptation to withstand.
确实，最大的危险是，其中一个人可能会绊倒，然后黄色魔鬼会立刻降临到他身上，而杀戮的快乐将是一种难以抗拒的巨大诱惑。

So Tarzan swung quickly to a lower limb in line with the approaching fugitives; and as Mr. Samuel T. Philander came panting and blowing beneath him, already too spent to struggle up to the safety of the limb, Tarzan reached down and, grasping him by the collar of his coat, yanked him to the limb by his side.
于是，泰山迅速转向下肢，与逼近的逃亡者保持一致。当塞缪尔·T·菲兰德先生气喘吁吁地来到他身下时，他已经筋疲力尽，无法挣扎到安全的肢体上，泰山弯下身子，抓住他的外套领子，把他拉到身边的肢体上。 。

Another moment brought the professor within the sphere of the friendly grip, and he, too, was drawn upward to safety just as the baffled Numa, with a roar, leaped to recover his vanishing quarry.
又过了一会儿，教授进入了友好的抓握范围内，他也被拉到了安全的地方，而此时，困惑的努玛咆哮着，跳了起来，去寻找他消失的猎物。

For a moment the two men clung panting to the great branch, while Tarzan squatted with his back to the stem of the tree, watching them with mingled curiosity and amusement.
有那么一会儿，两个人气喘吁吁地抓住了那根大树枝，而泰山则蹲在树干上，背对着树干，带着好奇和有趣的心情看着他们。

It was the professor who first broke the silence.
首先打破沉默的是教授。

‘I am deeply pained, Mr. Philander, that you should have evinced such a paucity of manly courage in the presence of one of the lower orders, and by your crass timidity have caused me to exert myself to such an unaccustomed degree in order that I might resume my discourse. As I was saying, Mr. Philander, when you interrupted me, the Moors—‘
“我深感痛苦，菲兰德先生，你竟然在一个下层阶级面前表现出如此缺乏男子气概的勇气，而你的粗鲁胆怯使我用尽了自己的努力到如此不习惯的程度，以便我可能会继续我的演讲。正如我所说的，菲兰德先生，当你打断我时，摩尔人——”

‘Professor Archimedes Q. Porter,’ broke in Mr. Philander, in icy tones, ‘the time has arrived when patience becomes a crime and mayhem appears garbed in the mantle of virtue. You have accused me of cowardice. You have insinuated that you ran only to overtake me, not to escape the clutches of the lion. Have a care, Professor Archimedes Q. Porter! I am a desperate man. Goaded by long-suffering patience the worm will turn.’
“阿基米德·Q·波特教授，”菲兰德先生用冰冷的语气插话道，“耐心变成犯罪、混乱披着美德外衣的时代已经到来。”你指责我胆怯。你暗示你跑只是为了追上我，而不是为了逃脱狮子的魔掌。保重，阿基米德·Q·波特教授！我是一个绝望的人。在长期忍耐的刺激下，蠕虫会转动。

‘Tut, tut, Mr. Philander, tut, tut!’ cautioned Professor Porter; ‘you forget yourself.’
“噗，噗，菲兰德先生，噗，噗！”波特教授警告道。 “你忘记了你自己。”

‘I forget nothing as yet, Professor Archimedes Q. Porter; but, believe me, sir, I am tottering on the verge of forgetfulness as to your exalted position in the world of science, and your gray hairs.’
“我还没有忘记任何事情，阿基米德·Q·波特教授；但是，请相信我，先生，我快要忘记您在科学界的崇高地位，以及您的白发了。”

The professor sat in silence for a few minutes, and the darkness hid the grim smile that wreathed his wrinkled countenance. Presently he spoke.
教授沉默地坐了几分钟，黑暗掩盖了他布满皱纹的脸上的冷酷微笑。不久他就开口说话了。

‘Look here, Skinny Philander,’ he said, in belligerent tones, ‘if you are lookin’ for a scrap, peel off your coat and come on down on the ground, and I’ll punch your head just as I did sixty years ago in the alley back of Porky Evans’ barn.’
“看这里，瘦皮菲兰德，”他用好战的语气说道，“如果你在寻找废品，脱掉你的外套，趴在地上，我会打你的头，就像我六十年来所做的那样之前在波基·埃文斯谷仓后面的小巷里。”

‘Ark!’ gasped the astonished Mr. Philander. ‘Lordy, how good that sounds! When you’re human, Ark, I love you; but somehow it seems as though you had forgotten how to be human for the last twenty years.’
“方舟！”菲兰德先生惊讶地喘着气说道。 ‘主啊，这听起来多好啊！当你还是人类时，阿克，我爱你；但不知怎的，过去二十年来你似乎已经忘记了如何成为一个人。”

The professor reached out a thin, trembling old hand through the darkness until it found his old friend’s shoulder.
教授在黑暗中伸出一只瘦弱、颤抖的老手，直到找到了他老朋友的肩膀。

‘Forgive me, Skinny,’ he said, softly. ‘It hasn’t been quite twenty years, and God alone knows how hard I have tried to be ‘human’ for Jane’s sake, and yours, too, since He took my other Jane away.’
“原谅我，瘦子，”他轻声说道。 “还不到二十年，只有上帝知道，自从他带走我的另一个简以来，为了简，也为了你，我多么努力地试图成为‘人类’。”

Another old hand stole up from Mr. Philander’s side to clasp the one that lay upon his shoulder, and no other message could better have translated the one heart to the other.
另一只老手从菲兰德先生身边悄悄伸出，握住了他肩膀上的那只手，没有其他信息能更好地将一颗心转移到另一颗心。

They did not speak for some minutes. The lion below them paced nervously back and forth. The third figure in the tree was hidden by the dense shadows near the stem. He, too, was silent—motionless as a graven image.
他们有几分钟没有说话。他们下面的狮子紧张地来回踱步。树上的第三个人影被树干附近浓密的阴影遮住了。他也沉默了——像一尊雕刻的雕像一样一动不动。

‘You certainly pulled me up into this tree just in time,’ said the professor at last. ‘I want to thank you. You saved my life.’
“你确实及时把我拉到了这棵树上，”教授最后说道。 '我想谢谢你。你救了我的命。'

‘But I didn’t pull you up here, Professor,’ said Mr. Philander. ‘Bless me! The excitement of the moment quite caused me to forget that I myself was drawn up here by some outside agency—there must be someone or something in this tree with us.’
“但我并没有把你拉到这里来，教授，”菲兰德先生说。 '保佑我（宗教！那一刻的兴奋让我忘记了我自己是被某个外部机构带到这里的——这棵树上一定有什么人或什么东西和我们在一起。

‘Eh?’ ejaculated Professor Porter. ‘Are you quite positive, Mr. Philander?’
“呃？”波特教授脱口而出。 “你很确定吗，菲兰德先生？”

‘Most positive, Professor,’ replied Mr. Philander, ‘and,’ he added, ‘I think we should thank the party. He may be sitting right next to you now, Professor.’
“最积极的，教授，”菲兰德先生回答道，“而且，”他补充道，“我认为我们应该感谢党。”他现在可能就坐在你旁边，教授。”

‘Eh? What’s that? Tut, tut, Mr. Philander, tut, tut!’ said Professor Porter, edging cautiously nearer to Mr. Philander.
‘呃？那是什么？ “哎呀，哎呀，菲兰德先生，哎呀，哎呀！”波特教授一边说，一边小心翼翼地靠近菲兰德先生。

Just then it occurred to Tarzan of the Apes that Numa had loitered beneath the tree for a sufficient length of time, so he raised his young head toward the heavens, and there rang out upon the terrified ears of the two old men the awful warning challenge of the anthropoid.
就在这时，人猿泰山想到努玛已经在树下徘徊了足够长的时间，于是他抬起年轻的头向天空，两个老人惊恐的耳边响起了可怕的警告挑战类人猿的。

The two friends, huddled trembling in their precarious position on the limb, saw the great lion halt in his restless pacing as the blood-curdling cry smote his ears, and then slink quickly into the jungle, to be instantly lost to view.
两个朋友在四肢上摇摇欲坠地挤在一起，看到那头大狮子在令人毛骨悚然的叫声冲击着他的耳朵时停止了不安的踱步，然后迅速溜进丛林，立刻消失在视野中。

‘Even the lion trembles in fear,’ whispered Mr. Philander.
“就连狮子也会因恐惧而颤抖。”菲兰德先生低声说道。

‘Most remarkable, most remarkable,’ murmured Professor Porter, clutching frantically at Mr. Philander to regain the balance which the sudden fright had so perilously endangered. Unfortunately for them both, Mr. Philander’s center of equilibrium was at that very moment hanging upon the ragged edge of nothing, so that it needed but the gentle impetus supplied by the additional weight of Professor Porter’s body to topple the devoted secretary from the limb.
“最了不起，最了不起，”波特教授低声说道，他疯狂地抓住菲兰德先生，以恢复因突然的惊吓而陷入危险的平衡。不幸的是，对他们俩来说，菲兰德先生的平衡中心此时悬在虚无的边缘，因此只需要波特教授身体的额外重量提供的温和推动力就能将这位忠诚的秘书从肢体上推倒。

For a moment they swayed uncertainly, and then, with mingled and most unscholarly shrieks, they pitched headlong from the tree, locked in frenzied embrace.
有一瞬间，他们摇摆不定，然后，伴随着混杂着最不学术的尖叫声，他们从树上一头栽下去，疯狂地拥抱在一起。

It was quite some moments ere either moved, for both were positive that any such attempt would reveal so many breaks and fractures as to make further progress impossible.
两人都过了相当长的一段时间才采取行动，因为两人都确信任何此类尝试都会暴露出如此多的裂痕和裂缝，从而使进一步的进展变得不可能。

At length Professor Porter made an attempt to move one leg. To his surprise, it responded to his will as in days gone by. He now drew up its mate and stretched it forth again.
最后波特教授尝试移动一条腿。令他惊讶的是，它一如往常地回应了他的意愿。现在他把它的伴侣拉起来，又把它伸出来。

‘Most remarkable, most remarkable,’ he murmured.
“最了不起，最了不起，”他低声说道。

‘Thank God, Professor,’ whispered Mr. Philander, fervently, ‘you are not dead, then?’
“感谢上帝，教授，”菲兰德先生热切地低声说道，“那么，你还没死吧？”

‘Tut, tut, Mr. Philander, tut, tut,’ cautioned Professor Porter, ‘I do not know with accuracy as yet.’
“哎呀，哎呀，菲兰德先生，哎呀，哎呀，”波特教授警告道，“我还不能准确地知道。”

With infinite solicitude Professor Porter wiggled his right arm—joy! It was intact. Breathlessly he waved his left arm above his prostrate body—it waved!
波特教授怀着无限的关怀扭动着他的右臂——高兴！它完好无损。他气喘吁吁地在自己倒下的身体上方挥动左臂——挥动了！

‘Most remarkable, most remarkable,’ he said.
“最了不起，最了不起，”他说。

‘To whom are you signaling, Professor?’ asked Mr. Philander, in an excited tone.
“教授，你在向谁发出信号？”菲兰德先生兴奋地问道。

Professor Porter deigned to make no response to this puerile inquiry. Instead he raised his head gently from the ground, nodding it back and forth a half dozen times.
波特教授屈尊对这个幼稚的询问不予回应。相反，他轻轻地从地上抬起头，来回点头六次。

‘Most remarkable,’ he breathed. ‘It remains intact.’
“最了不起，”他喘息道。 “它完好无损。”

Mr. Philander had not moved from where he had fallen; he had not dared the attempt. How indeed could one move when one’s arms and legs and back were broken?
菲兰德先生还没有从倒下的地方挪开。他不敢尝试。当一个人的胳膊、腿和背部都被折断时，他还怎么能动呢？

One eye was buried in the soft loam; the other, rolling sidewise, was fixed in awe upon the strange gyrations of Professor Porter.
一只眼睛埋在松软的壤土里；另一个则侧身滚动，敬畏地注视着波特教授奇怪的旋转。

‘How sad!’ exclaimed Mr. Philander, half aloud. ‘Concussion of the brain, superinducing total mental aberration. How very sad indeed! and for one still so young!’
“多么悲伤啊！”菲兰德先生低声喊道。 ‘大脑震荡，导致精神完全失常。实在是多么悲伤啊！而且对于一个还那么年轻的人来说！

Professor Porter rolled over upon his stomach; gingerly he bowed his back until he resembled a huge tom cat in proximity to a yelping dog. Then he sat up and felt of various portions of his anatomy.
波特教授翻了个身，趴在地上。他小心翼翼地弓起背，直到他像一只巨大的公猫靠近一只吠叫的狗。然后他坐起来，感受自己身体的各个部分。

‘They are all here,’ he exclaimed. ‘Most remarkable!’
“他们都在这里，”他喊道。 “最了不起！”

Whereupon he arose, and, bending a scathing glance upon the still prostrate form of Mr. Samuel T. Philander, he said:
于是他站起身来，严厉地瞥了一眼仍倒在地上的塞缪尔·T·菲兰德先生，说道：

‘Tut, tut, Mr. Philander; this is no time to indulge in slothful ease. We must be up and doing.’
“噗，噗，菲兰德先生；现在不是沉迷于懒散安逸的时候。我们必须站起来行动。

Mr. Philander lifted his other eye out of the mud and gazed in speechless rage at Professor Porter. Then he attempted to rise; nor could there have been any more surprised than he when his efforts were immediately crowned with marked success.
菲兰德先生从泥里抬起另一只眼睛，怒气冲冲地瞪着波特教授，说不出话来。然后他试图站起来，但没有成功。当他的努力立即获得显着的成功时，没有人比他更惊讶了。

He was still bursting with rage, however, at the cruel injustice of Professor Porter’s insinuation, and was on the point of rendering a tart rejoinder when his eyes fell upon a strange figure standing a few paces away, scrutinizing them intently.
然而，对于波特教授的含沙射影的残酷不公正，他仍然勃然大怒，正要尖酸刻薄地反驳，这时他的目光落在了几步外站着的一个奇怪的人影上，正聚精会神地打量着他们。

Professor Porter had recovered his shiny silk hat, which he had brushed carefully upon the sleeve of his coat and replaced upon his head. When he saw Mr. Philander pointing to something behind him he turned to behold a giant, naked but for a loin cloth and a few metal ornaments, standing motionless before him.
波特教授找回了他那顶闪亮的丝质帽子，他小心翼翼地把帽子刷在外套袖子上，然后戴在头上。当他看到菲兰德先生指着他身后的某个东西时，他转身看到一个巨人，全身赤裸，只穿了一块腰布和一些金属饰物，一动不动地站在他面前。

‘Good evening, sir!’ said the professor, lifting his hat.
“晚上好，先生！”教授举起帽子说道。

For reply the giant motioned them to follow him, and set off up the beach in the direction from which they had recently come.
作为回应，巨人示意他们跟着他，然后向他们最近来的方向出发。

‘I think it the better part of discretion to follow him,’ said Mr. Philander.
“我认为跟随他是明智之举，”菲兰德先生说。

‘Tut, tut, Mr. Philander,’ returned the professor. ‘A short time since you were advancing a most logical argument in substantiation of your theory that camp lay directly south of us. I was skeptical, but you finally convinced me; so now I am positive that toward the south we must travel to reach our friends. Therefore I shall continue south.’
“啧，啧，菲兰德先生，”教授回答道。 “不久前，你提出了一个最合乎逻辑的论证来证实你的理论，即营地位于我们的正南方。我很怀疑，但你终于说服了我；所以现在我确信我们必须向南行驶去见我们的朋友。因此我将继续向南。

‘But, Professor Porter, this man may know better than either of us. He seems to be indigenous to this part of the world. Let us at least follow him for a short distance.’
“但是，波特教授，这个人可能比我们更了解。他似乎是世界这个地区的土著。让我们至少跟随他一小段距离。

‘Tut, tut, Mr. Philander,’ repeated the professor. ‘I am a difficult man to convince, but when once convinced my decision is unalterable. I shall continue in the proper direction, if I have to circumambulate the continent of Africa to reach my destination.’
“啧，啧，菲兰德先生，”教授重复道。 “我是一个很难说服的人，但一旦被说服，我的决定就无法改变。如果我必须绕行非洲大陆才能到达目的地，我将继续沿着正确的方向前进。

Further argument was interrupted by Tarzan, who, seeing that these strange men were not following him, had returned to their side.
进一步的争论被泰山打断了，泰山看到这些奇怪的人没有跟着他，就回到了他们的身边。

Again he beckoned to them; but still they stood in argument.
他再次向他们招手。但他们仍然争论不休。

Presently the ape-man lost patience with their stupid ignorance. He grasped the frightened Mr. Philander by the shoulder, and before that worthy gentleman knew whether he was being killed or merely maimed for life, Tarzan had tied one end of his rope securely about Mr. Philander’s neck.
不久，猿人对他们的愚蠢无知失去了耐心。他抓住了受惊的菲兰德先生的肩膀，在那位可敬的绅士知道他是被杀还是仅仅终身残废之前，泰山已经把他绳子的一端牢牢地绑在菲兰德先生的脖子上。

‘Tut, tut, Mr. Philander,’ remonstrated Professor Porter; ‘it is most unbeseeming in you to submit to such indignities.’
“哎呀，菲兰德先生，”波特教授抗议道。 “你承受这样的侮辱是非常不体面的。”

But scarcely were the words out of his mouth ere he, too, had been seized and securely bound by the neck with the same rope. Then Tarzan set off toward the north, leading the now thoroughly frightened professor and his secretary.
但话刚出口，他也被抓住，并用同一根绳子牢牢地绑住了脖子。然后，泰山带着已经彻底惊恐万状的教授和他的秘书出发，向北方走去。

In deathly silence they proceeded for what seemed hours to the two tired and hopeless old men; but presently as they topped a little rise of ground they were overjoyed to see the cabin lying before them, not a hundred yards distant.
在死一般的寂静中，他们走了几个小时，这对两个疲惫而绝望的老人来说似乎是几个小时。但不久，当他们登上一小块高地时，他们欣喜地看到小屋就在他们面前，距离不到一百码。

Here Tarzan released them, and, pointing toward the little building, vanished into the jungle beside them.
泰山在这里放开了他们，然后指着那座小建筑，消失在他们旁边的丛林中。

‘Most remarkable, most remarkable!’ gasped the professor. ‘But you see, Mr. Philander, that I was quite right, as usual; and but for your stubborn willfulness we should have escaped a series of most humiliating, not to say dangerous accidents. Pray allow yourself to be guided by a more mature and practical mind hereafter when in need of wise counsel.’
“最了不起，最了不起！”教授喘着气说。 “但是你看，菲兰德先生，像往常一样，我是对的。”如果不是你的顽固任性，我们本可以避免一系列最丢脸的事故，更不用说危险的事故了。祈祷以后当需要明智的建议时，让自己受到更加成熟和务实的思想的指导。

Mr. Samuel T. Philander was too much relieved at the happy outcome to their adventure to take umbrage at the professor’s cruel fling. Instead he grasped his friend’s arm and hastened him forward in the direction of the cabin.
塞缪尔·T·菲兰德先生对他们冒险的幸福结局感到非常欣慰，没有对教授残酷的风流韵事感到不满。相反，他抓住了朋友的手臂，催促他朝小屋的方向走去。

It was a much-relieved party of castaways that found itself once more united. Dawn discovered them still recounting their various adventures and speculating upon the identity of the strange guardian and protector they had found on this savage shore.
这群漂流者松了口气，发现自己再次团结起来。黎明发现他们仍在讲述自己的各种冒险经历，并猜测他们在这片野蛮海岸上发现的奇怪守护者和保护者的身份。

Esmeralda was positive that it was none other than an angel of the Lord, sent down especially to watch over them.
艾斯梅拉达确信这不是别人，正是上帝派来专门看守他们的天使。

‘Had you seen him devour the raw meat of the lion, Esmeralda,’ laughed Clayton, ‘you would have thought him a very material angel.’
“如果你看到他吞下狮子的生肉，埃斯梅拉达，”克莱顿笑着说，“你会认为他是一个非常物质的天使。”

‘There was nothing heavenly about his voice,’ said Jane Porter, with a little shudder at recollection of the awful roar which had followed the killing of the lioness.
“他的声音一点也不美妙。”简·波特回忆起母狮被杀后发出的可怕吼叫，不禁有些不寒而栗。

‘Nor did it precisely comport with my preconceived ideas of the dignity of divine messengers,’ remarked Professor Porter, ‘when the—ah—gentleman tied two highly respectable and erudite scholars neck to neck and dragged them through the jungle as though they had been cows.’
“这也完全不符合我对神圣使者尊严的先入为主的观念，”波特教授评论道，“那位——啊——一位绅士把两位德高望重、博学多才的学者并肩绑在一起，拖着他们穿过丛林，好像他们是被奶牛。

Chapter 17
第17章


Burials
墓葬

As it was now quite light, the party, none of whom had eaten or slept since the previous morning, began to bestir themselves to prepare food.
天色已经大亮，一行人从前一天早上起就没有吃过、睡不着，开始忙着准备食物。

The mutineers of the Arrow had landed a small supply of dried meats, canned soups and vegetables, crackers, flour, tea, and coffee for the five they had marooned, and these were hurriedly drawn upon to satisfy the craving of long-famished appetites.
箭号的叛变者为他们被困的五个人运来了少量的干肉、罐头汤和蔬菜、饼干、面粉、茶和咖啡，这些东西被匆忙地用来满足长期饥饿的胃口。

The next task was to make the cabin habitable, and to this end it was decided to at once remove the gruesome relics of the tragedy which had taken place there on some bygone day.
下一个任务是使小屋适合居住，为此，决定立即清除过去发生的悲剧的可怕遗迹。

Professor Porter and Mr. Philander were deeply interested in examining the skeletons. The two larger, they stated, had belonged to a male and female of one of the higher white races.
波特教授和菲兰德先生对检查骨骼非常感兴趣。他们说，其中两个较大的个体属于高等白种人之一的雄性和雌性。

The smallest skeleton was given but passing attention, as its location, in the crib, left no doubt as to its having been the infant offspring of this unhappy couple.
最小的骨架被给出，但引起了人们的注意，因为它在婴儿床上的位置，毫无疑问它是这对不幸夫妇的婴儿后代。

As they were preparing the skeleton of the man for burial, Clayton discovered a massive ring which had evidently encircled the man’s finger at the time of his death, for one of the slender bones of the hand still lay within the golden bauble.
当他们准备埋葬该男子的骨架时，克莱顿发现了一个巨大的戒指，显然在他死亡时环绕着该男子的手指，因为其中一根细长的手骨仍然躺在金色的小玩意中。

Picking it up to examine it, Clayton gave a cry of astonishment, for the ring bore the crest of the house of Greystoke.
克莱顿拿起它来检查，惊讶地大喊一声，因为这枚戒指上有格雷斯托克家族的徽章。

At the same time, Jane discovered the books in the cupboard, and on opening the fly-leaf of one of them saw the name, JOHN CLAYTON, LONDON. In a second book which she hurriedly examined was the single name, GREYSTOKE.
与此同时，简发现了柜子里的书，打开其中一本书的扉页，看到了名字：约翰·克莱顿，伦敦。她匆忙翻阅的第二本书中只有一个名字：格雷斯托克。

‘Why, Mr. Clayton,’ she cried, ‘what does this mean? Here are the names of some of your own people in these books.’
“为什么，克莱顿先生，”她喊道，“这是什么意思？这是这些书中一些你们自己人的名字。

‘And here,’ he replied gravely, ‘is the great ring of the house of Greystoke which has been lost since my uncle, John Clayton, the former Lord Greystoke, disappeared, presumably lost at sea.’
“这里，”他严肃地回答，“这是格雷斯托克家族的大戒指，自从我的叔叔约翰·克莱顿，前格雷斯托克勋爵失踪后，它就消失了，大概是在海上失踪了。”

‘But how do you account for these things being here, in this savage African jungle?’ exclaimed the girl.
“但是，在这片野蛮的非洲丛林中，你如何解释这些东西的存在呢？”女孩惊呼道。

‘There is but one way to account for it, Miss Porter,’ said Clayton. ‘The late Lord Greystoke was not drowned. He died here in this cabin and this poor thing upon the floor is all that is mortal of him.’
“只有一种方法可以解释这一点，波特小姐，”克莱顿说。 “已故的格雷斯托克勋爵并没有被淹死。他死在这间小屋里，地板上这个可怜的东西就是他的全部生命。

‘Then this must have been Lady Greystoke,’ said Jane reverently, indicating the poor mass of bones upon the bed.
“那么这一定是格雷斯托克夫人了，”简恭敬地说，指着床上那堆可怜的骨头。

‘The beautiful Lady Alice,’ replied Clayton, ‘of whose many virtues and remarkable personal charms I often have heard my mother and father speak. Poor woman,’ he murmured sadly.
“美丽的爱丽丝女士，”克莱顿回答道，“我经常听我的父母谈论她的许多美德和非凡的个人魅力。可怜的女人，”他悲伤地低声说道。

With deep reverence and solemnity the bodies of the late Lord and Lady Greystoke were buried beside their little African cabin, and between them was placed the tiny skeleton of the baby of Kala, the ape.
带着深深的崇敬和庄严，已故的格雷斯托克勋爵和夫人的遗体被埋葬在他们的非洲小木屋旁边，在他们之间放置着卡拉婴儿猿的小骨架。

As Mr. Philander was placing the frail bones of the infant in a bit of sail cloth, he examined the skull minutely. Then he called Professor Porter to his side, and the two argued in low tones for several minutes.
当菲兰德先生将婴儿脆弱的骨头放在一块帆布上时，他仔细地检查了头骨。然后他把波特教授叫到身边，两人低声争论了几分钟。

‘Most remarkable, most remarkable,’ said Professor Porter.
“最了不起，最了不起，”波特教授说。

‘Bless me,’ said Mr. Philander, ‘we must acquaint Mr. Clayton with our discovery at once.’
“上帝保佑我，”菲兰德先生说，“我们必须立即让克莱顿先生了解我们的发现。”

‘Tut, tut, Mr. Philander, tut, tut!’ remonstrated Professor Archimedes Q. Porter. ‘‘Let the dead past bury its dead.’’
“噗，噗，菲兰德先生，噗，噗！”阿基米德·Q·波特教授抗议道。 “让逝去的过去埋葬逝去的人吧。”

And so the white-haired old man repeated the burial service over this strange grave, while his four companions stood with bowed and uncovered heads about him.
于是，白发老人在这座陌生的坟墓上重复了葬礼，而他的四个同伴则低着头，没有戴帽子，站在他周围。

From the trees Tarzan of the Apes watched the solemn ceremony; but most of all he watched the sweet face and graceful figure of Jane Porter.
人猿泰山在树上观看了庄严的仪式。但最重要的是，他看到了简·波特甜美的脸庞和优雅的身材。

In his savage, untutored breast new emotions were stirring. He could not fathom them. He wondered why he felt so great an interest in these people—why he had gone to such pains to save the three men. But he did not wonder why he had torn Sabor from the tender flesh of the strange girl.
在他野蛮、未经训练的胸膛里，新的情感正在蠢蠢欲动。他无法理解它们。他想知道为什么他对这些人如此感兴趣——为什么他不遗余力地拯救这三个人。但他并不奇怪为什么他要把萨博从这个陌生女孩的嫩肉上撕下来。

Surely the men were stupid and ridiculous and cowardly. Even Manu, the monkey, was more intelligent than they. If these were creatures of his own kind he was doubtful if his past pride in blood was warranted.
毫无疑问，这些人都是愚蠢、可笑、胆怯的。就连猴子马努也比他们聪明。如果这些是他同类的生物，他怀疑他过去对血统的自豪感是否合理。

But the girl, ah—that was a different matter. He did not reason here. He knew that she was created to be protected, and that he was created to protect her.
但是那个女孩啊——那就是另外一回事了。他没有在这里推理。他知道她生来就是为了被保护，而他生来就是为了保护她。

He wondered why they had dug a great hole in the ground merely to bury dry bones. Surely there was no sense in that; no one wanted to steal dry bones.
他想知道为什么他们在地上挖了一个大洞只是为了埋葬干骨头。这当然没有任何意义。没有人想偷干骨头。

Had there been meat upon them he could have understood, for thus alone might one keep his meat from Dango, the hyena, and the other robbers of the jungle.
如果上面有肉，他就能理解，因为只有这样，人们才能不让丹戈、鬣狗和其他丛林强盗吃到肉。

When the grave had been filled with earth the little party turned back toward the cabin, and Esmeralda, still weeping copiously for the two she had never heard of before today, and who had been dead twenty years, chanced to glance toward the harbor. Instantly her tears ceased.
当坟墓填满泥土后，这一小群人转身朝船舱走去，而已经去世二十年的埃斯梅拉达仍在为今天从未听说过的两个人痛哭流涕，她偶然瞥了一眼港口。她的眼泪立刻就止住了。

‘Look at them low down white trash out there!’ she shrilled, pointing toward the Arrow. ‘They-all’s a desecrating us, right here on this here perverted island.’
“看看那些低低的白色垃圾！”她指着箭号尖叫道。 “他们——所有人都在亵渎我们，就在这个变态的岛上。”

And, sure enough, the Arrow was being worked toward the open sea, slowly, through the harbor’s entrance.
果然，箭号正缓慢地穿过港口入口驶向公海。

‘They promised to leave us firearms and ammunition,’ said Clayton. ‘The merciless beasts!’
“他们答应给我们留下枪支和弹药，”克莱顿说。 “无情的野兽！”

‘It is the work of that fellow they call Snipes, I am sure,’ said Jane. ‘King was a scoundrel, but he had a little sense of humanity. If they had not killed him I know that he would have seen that we were properly provided for before they left us to our fate.’
“我确信，这是那个被他们称为“鹬”的家伙干的，”简说。 ‘金是个恶棍，但他还有一点人性。如果他们没有杀了他，我知道他会在他们让我们听天由命之前看到我们得到了适当的照顾。

‘I regret that they did not visit us before sailing,’ said Professor Porter. ‘I had proposed requesting them to leave the treasure with us, as I shall be a ruined man if that is lost.’
“我很遗憾他们没有在起航前拜访我们，”波特教授说。 “我曾提议要求他们把宝藏留给我们，因为如果失去了宝藏，我就会破产。”

Jane looked at her father sadly.
简悲伤地看着父亲。

‘Never mind, dear,’ she said. ‘It wouldn’t have done any good, because it is solely for the treasure that they killed their officers and landed us upon this awful shore.’
“没关系，亲爱的，”她说。 “这不会有任何好处，因为他们只是为了宝藏才杀死军官，然后把我们带到这个可怕的海岸上。”

‘Tut, tut, child, tut, tut!’ replied Professor Porter. ‘You are a good child, but inexperienced in practical matters,’ and Professor Porter turned and walked slowly away toward the jungle, his hands clasped beneath his long coat tails and his eyes bent upon the ground.
“哎呀，哎呀，孩子，哎呀，哎呀！”波特教授回答道。 “你是个好孩子，但在实际问题上缺乏经验。”波特教授转身，慢慢地朝丛林走去，双手紧扣在长外套下摆下，眼睛盯着地面。

His daughter watched him with a pathetic smile upon her lips, and then turning to Mr. Philander, she whispered:
他的女儿看着他，嘴唇上挂着可怜的微笑，然后转向菲兰德先生，低声说道：

‘Please don’t let him wander off again as he did yesterday. We depend upon you, you know, to keep a close watch upon him.’
“请不要让他再像昨天那样迷失方向。”你知道，我们依靠你来密切监视他。

‘He becomes more difficult to handle each day,’ replied Mr. Philander, with a sigh and a shake of his head. ‘I presume he is now off to report to the directors of the Zoo that one of their lions was at large last night. Oh, Miss Jane, you don’t know what I have to contend with.’
“他一天比一天难对付，”菲兰德先生叹了口气，摇了摇头回答道。 “我想他现在要去向动物园的主管报告他们的一只狮子昨晚在逃。哦，简小姐，你不知道我必须面对什么。

‘Yes, I do, Mr. Philander; but while we all love him, you alone are best fitted to manage him; for, regardless of what he may say to you, he respects your great learning, and, therefore, has immense confidence in your judgment. The poor dear cannot differentiate between erudition and wisdom.’
“是的，我愿意，菲兰德先生；”虽然我们都爱他，但只有你最适合管理他；因为，无论他对你说什么，他都尊重你的博学，因此对你的判断充满信心。可怜的亲爱的人无法区分博学和智慧。

Mr. Philander, with a mildly puzzled expression on his face, turned to pursue Professor Porter, and in his mind he was revolving the question of whether he should feel complimented or aggrieved at Miss Porter’s rather backhanded compliment.
菲兰德先生脸上带着一丝困惑，转身追寻波特教授，心里盘算着对于波特小姐这句颇为讽刺的恭维，他是该感到恭维还是委屈。

Tarzan had seen the consternation depicted upon the faces of the little group as they witnessed the departure of the Arrow; so, as the ship was a wonderful novelty to him in addition, he determined to hasten out to the point of land at the north of the harbor’s mouth and obtain a nearer view of the boat, as well as to learn, if possible, the direction of its flight.
泰山看到了这小群人目睹箭号离开时脸上的惊愕之情。因此，由于这艘船对他来说又是一个奇妙的新奇事物，他决定赶紧前往港口北部的陆地，近距离观察这艘船，如果可能的话，还要了解一下它的情况。它的飞行方向。

Swinging through the trees with great speed, he reached the point only a moment after the ship had passed out of the harbor, so that he obtained an excellent view of the wonders of this strange, floating house.
他以极快的速度在树林中荡来荡去，在船驶出港口后不久就到达了目的地，这样他就可以清楚地看到这座奇怪的漂浮房屋的奇观。

There were some twenty men running hither and thither about the deck, pulling and hauling on ropes.
大约有二十个人在甲板上跑来跑去，拉着绳子。

A light land breeze was blowing, and the ship had been worked through the harbor’s mouth under scant sail, but now that they had cleared the point every available shred of canvas was being spread that she might stand out to sea as handily as possible.
一阵轻柔的陆风吹来，船在没有多少帆的情况下驶过港口，但现在他们已经清理了这个点，所有可用的帆布碎片都被铺开，以便她可以尽可能轻松地站在海上。

Tarzan watched the graceful movements of the ship in rapt admiration, and longed to be aboard her. Presently his keen eyes caught the faintest suspicion of smoke on the far northern horizon, and he wondered over the cause of such a thing out on the great water.
泰山全神贯注地看着这艘船优雅的动作，并渴望登上她。不久，他敏锐的眼睛在遥远的北方地平线上发现了一丝丝怀疑的烟雾，他想知道大海上出现这样的事情的原因。

About the same time the look-out on the Arrow must have discerned it, for in a few minutes Tarzan saw the sails being shifted and shortened. The ship came about, and presently he knew that she was beating back toward land.
大约在同一时间，箭号上的瞭望员一定也发现了这一点，因为几分钟后，泰山就看到帆被移动并缩短了。船开过来了，不久他就知道她正在向陆地驶去。

A man at the bows was constantly heaving into the sea a rope to the end of which a small object was fastened. Tarzan wondered what the purpose of this action might be.
船头的一个人不断地将一根绳子扔进海里，绳子的一端系着一个小物体。泰山想知道这个行动的目的是什么。

At last the ship came up directly into the wind; the anchor was lowered; down came the sails. There was great scurrying about on deck.
最后，船直接迎风而上。锚已放下；帆落了下来。甲板上到处乱窜。

A boat was lowered, and in it a great chest was placed. Then a dozen sailors bent to the oars and pulled rapidly toward the point where Tarzan crouched in the branches of a tree.
一艘小船被放下来，里面放着一个大箱子。然后十几个水手弯下腰划桨，迅速驶向泰山蹲在树枝上的地方。

In the stern of the boat, as it drew nearer, Tarzan saw the rat-faced man.
当船越来越近时，泰山在船尾看到了那个鼠脸男人。

It was but a few minutes later that the boat touched the beach. The men jumped out and lifted the great chest to the sand. They were on the north side of the point so that their presence was concealed from those at the cabin.
几分钟后，船就靠岸了。男人们跳了出来，把巨大的箱子举到了沙​​子上。他们位于该点的北侧，因此小屋里的人看不到他们的存在。

The men argued angrily for a moment. Then the rat-faced one, with several companions, ascended the low bluff on which stood the tree that concealed Tarzan. They looked about for several minutes.
男人们愤怒地争论了一会儿。然后，鼠脸的人和几个同伴登上了低矮的悬崖，悬崖上矗立着隐藏着泰山的树。他们环顾四周看了几分钟。

‘Here is a good place,’ said the rat-faced sailor, indicating a spot beneath Tarzan’s tree.
“这是个好地方，”鼠脸水手说道，指着泰山树下的一个地方。

‘It is as good as any,’ replied one of his companions. ‘If they catch us with the treasure aboard it will all be confiscated anyway. We might as well bury it here on the chance that some of us will escape the gallows to come back and enjoy it later.’
“它和任何东西一样好，”他的一位同伴回答道。 “如果他们发现我们带着财宝在船上，无论如何，这些财宝都会被没收。”我们不妨把它埋在这里，这样我们中的一些人就能逃脱绞刑架，稍后再回来享受它。

The rat-faced one now called to the men who had remained at the boat, and they came slowly up the bank carrying picks and shovels.
老鼠脸的人现在向留在船上的人招呼，他们拿着镐和铲子慢慢地爬上岸。

‘Hurry, you!’ cried Snipes.
“快点，你！”斯奈普斯喊道。

‘Stow it!’ retorted one of the men, in a surly tone. ‘You’re no admiral, you damned shrimp.’
“收起来！”其中一名男子用粗暴的语气反驳道。 “你不是海军上将，你这该死的虾。”

‘I’m Cap’n here, though, I’ll have you to understand, you swab,’ shrieked Snipes, with a volley of frightful oaths.
“不过，我是船长，我会让你明白的，你这个混蛋，”斯奈普斯尖声叫道，咒骂着一连串可怕的咒语。

‘Steady, boys,’ cautioned one of the men who had not spoken before. ‘It ain’t goin’ to get us nothing by fightin’ amongst ourselves.’
“稳住，孩子们，”其中一位之前没有说话的男人警告道。 “我们之间的争斗不会给我们带来任何好处。”

‘Right enough,’ replied the sailor who had resented Snipes’ autocratic tones; ‘but it ain’t a-goin’ to get nobody nothin’ to put on airs in this bloomin’ company neither.’
“没错，”水手回答道，他对斯奈普斯的专制语气感到不满。 “但在这家蓬勃发展的公司里，也不会让任何人有什么可摆架子的。”

‘You fellows dig here,’ said Snipes, indicating a spot beneath the tree. ‘And while you’re diggin’, Peter kin be a-makin’ of a map of the location so’s we kin find it again. You, Tom, and Bill, take a couple more down and fetch up the chest.’
“你们这些家伙在这里挖，”斯奈普斯指着树下的一个地方说道。 “当你在挖掘的时候”，彼得会制作一张该位置的地图，这样我们就可以再次找到它。你、汤姆和比尔，再拿几个下来，然后把箱子搬上来。”

‘Wot are you a-goin’ to do?’ asked he of the previous altercation. ‘Just boss?’
“你打算做什么？”他在谈到之前的争吵时问道。 “只是老板？”

‘Git busy there,’ growled Snipes. ‘You didn’t think your Cap’n was a-goin’ to dig with a shovel, did you?’
“那儿真忙，”斯奈普斯咆哮道。 “你不认为你的船长会用铲子去挖，是吗？”

The men all looked up angrily. None of them liked Snipes, and this disagreeable show of authority since he had murdered King, the real head and ringleader of the mutineers, had only added fuel to the flames of their hatred.
男人们全都愤怒的抬头看去。他们中没有一个人喜欢斯奈普斯，自从他谋杀了叛乱分子的真正头目和头目金以来，他这种令人不快的权威表现只会给他们的仇恨火上浇油。

‘Do you mean to say that you don’t intend to take a shovel, and lend a hand with this work? Your shoulder’s not hurt so all-fired bad as that,’ said Tarrant, the sailor who had before spoken.
‘你的意思是说你不打算拿起铲子来帮忙做这项工作吗？你的肩膀并没有伤得那么严重，”之前说话的水手塔兰特说道。

‘Not by a damned sight,’ replied Snipes, fingering the butt of his revolver nervously.
“绝对不是这样的，”斯奈普斯回答道，紧张地抚摸着左轮手枪的枪托。

‘Then, by God,’ replied Tarrant, ‘if you won’t take a shovel you’ll take a pickax.’
“那么，上帝啊，”塔兰特回答道，“如果你不拿铲子，你就会拿镐。”

With the words he raised his pick above his head, and, with a mighty blow, he buried the point in Snipes’ brain.
说着，他将镐举过头顶，用力一击，将镐尖深深地扎进了斯奈普斯的脑中。

For a moment the men stood silently looking at the result of their fellow’s grim humor. Then one of them spoke.
有一会儿，男人们静静地站着，看着他们同伴的冷酷幽默所带来的后果。然后其中一人说话了。

‘Served the skunk jolly well right,’ he said.
“臭鼬的表现非常好，”他说。

One of the others commenced to ply his pick to the ground. The soil was soft and he threw aside the pick and grasped a shovel; then the others joined him. There was no further comment on the killing, but the men worked in a better frame of mind than they had since Snipes had assumed command.
另外一个人开始把他的镐放到地上。土壤很松软，他把锄头扔到一边，抓起铲子。然后其他人也加入了他。对于这次杀戮没有进一步的评论，但这些人的工作心态比斯奈普斯接任指挥以来更好。

When they had a trench of ample size to bury the chest, Tarrant suggested that they enlarge it and inter Snipes’ body on top of the chest.
当他们有足够大的沟渠来埋葬箱子时，塔兰特建议他们扩大它，并将斯奈普斯的身体埋在箱子顶部。

‘It might ‘elp fool any as ‘appened to be diggin’ ‘ereabouts,’ he explained.
他解释说，“这可能会愚弄任何人，因为‘附近’似乎是在挖掘”。”

The others saw the cunning of the suggestion, and so the trench was lengthened to accommodate the corpse, and in the center a deeper hole was excavated for the box, which was first wrapped in sailcloth and then lowered to its place, which brought its top about a foot below the bottom of the grave. Earth was shovelled in and tramped down about the chest until the bottom of the grave showed level and uniform.
其他人看出了这个建议的狡猾，于是加长了壕沟以容纳尸体，并在中间挖了一个更深的洞来放置盒子，先用帆布包裹起来，然后降低到原来的位置，这样就将盒子的顶部露出来了。距离坟墓底部约一英尺。泥土被铲入并在胸部周围踩踏，直到坟墓底部呈现水平且均匀。

Two of the men rolled the rat-faced corpse unceremoniously into the grave, after first stripping it of its weapons and various other articles which the several members of the party coveted for their own.
两名男子毫不客气地将这具鼠脸尸体滚进坟墓，首先抢走了几名党员渴望拥有的武器和其他物品。

They then filled the grave with earth and tramped upon it until it would hold no more.
然后，他们用泥土填满坟墓，并在上面践踏，直到它再也无法容纳为止。

The balance of the loose earth was thrown far and wide, and a mass of dead undergrowth spread in as natural a manner as possible over the new-made grave to obliterate all signs of the ground having been disturbed.
松散的土地的平衡被抛得很远很远，一大堆枯死的灌木丛以尽可能自然的方式蔓延到新建造的坟墓上，消除了地面被扰动的所有迹象。

Their work done the sailors returned to the small boat, and pulled off rapidly toward the Arrow.
工作完成后，水手们回到小船上，迅速朝箭号驶去。

The breeze had increased considerably, and as the smoke upon the horizon was now plainly discernible in considerable volume, the mutineers lost no time in getting under full sail and bearing away toward the southwest.
风势已大为增强，地平线上的浓烟已清晰可辨，叛乱分子立即扬起帆，向西南方向驶去。

Tarzan, an interested spectator of all that had taken place, sat speculating on the strange actions of these peculiar creatures.
泰山对所发生的一切充满兴趣，坐在那儿思考这些奇特生物的奇怪行为。

Men were indeed more foolish and more cruel than the beasts of the jungle! How fortunate was he who lived in the peace and security of the great forest!
人类确实比丛林中的野兽更愚蠢、更残忍！生活在和平与安全的大森林里的他是多么幸运啊！

Tarzan wondered what the chest they had buried contained. If they did not want it why did they not merely throw it into the water? That would have been much easier.
泰山想知道他们埋的箱子里装着什么。如果他们不想要它，为什么不直接把它扔进水里呢？那会容易得多。

Ah, he thought, but they do want it. They have hidden it here because they intend returning for it later.
啊，他想，但他们确实想要它。他们把它藏在这里，因为他们打算稍后再回来取。

Tarzan dropped to the ground and commenced to examine the earth about the excavation. He was looking to see if these creatures had dropped anything which he might like to own. Soon he discovered a spade hidden by the underbrush which they had laid upon the grave.
泰山跌倒在地，开始检查挖掘现场的情况。他想看看这些生物是否掉落了任何他可能想要拥有的东西。很快，他发现了一把藏在灌木丛中的铲子，他们把它放在坟墓上。

He seized it and attempted to use it as he had seen the sailors do. It was awkward work and hurt his bare feet, but he persevered until he had partially uncovered the body. This he dragged from the grave and laid to one side.
他抓住它并试图像他看到水手那样使用它。这是一项很尴尬的工作，而且还伤到了他光着的脚，但他坚持了下来，直到露出了尸体的一部分。他把它从坟墓里拖出来，放在一边。

Then he continued digging until he had unearthed the chest. This also he dragged to the side of the corpse. Then he filled in the smaller hole below the grave, replaced the body and the earth around and above it, covered it over with underbrush, and returned to the chest.
然后他继续挖掘，直到挖出了箱子。这也被他拖到了尸体的一边。然后他填满了坟墓下方的小洞，将尸体和周围及上方的泥土放回原位，用灌木丛覆盖，然后返回箱子。

Four sailors had sweated beneath the burden of its weight —Tarzan of the Apes picked it up as though it had been an empty packing case, and with the spade slung to his back by a piece of rope, carried it off into the densest part of the jungle.
四名水手因它的重量而出汗——人猿泰山把它捡起来，就像它是一个空包装箱一样，用一根绳子把铲子挂在背上，把它带进了最密集的地方。丛林。

He could not well negotiate the trees with his awkward burden, but he kept to the trails, and so made fairly good time.
他背负着沉重的负担，无法很好地穿过树林，但他坚持沿着小路走，因此度过了相当愉快的时光。

For several hours he traveled a little north of east until he came to an impenetrable wall of matted and tangled vegetation. Then he took to the lower branches, and in another fifteen minutes he emerged into the amphitheater of the apes, where they met in council, or to celebrate the rites of the Dum-Dum.
他花了几个小时向东偏北行驶，直到来到一堵密不可分的墙边，那里长满了缠结的植被。然后他来到了较低的树枝，又过了十五分钟，他出现在猿类的圆形剧场中，在那里他们举行会议，或者庆祝达姆-达姆的仪式。

Near the center of the clearing, and not far from the drum, or altar, he commenced to dig. This was harder work than turning up the freshly excavated earth at the grave, but Tarzan of the Apes was persevering and so he kept at his labor until he was rewarded by seeing a hole sufficiently deep to receive the chest and effectually hide it from view.
在空地的中心附近，离鼓或祭坛不远的地方，他开始挖掘。这比在坟墓处翻开新挖的泥土要困难得多，但人猿泰山坚持不懈，所以他一直在努力，直到他看到一个足够深的洞来容纳箱子并有效地将其隐藏起来。

Why had he gone to all this labor without knowing the value of the contents of the chest?
为什么他在不知道箱子里东西的价值的情况下就去做这些工作呢？

Tarzan of the Apes had a man’s figure and a man’s brain, but he was an ape by training and environment. His brain told him that the chest contained something valuable, or the men would not have hidden it. His training had taught him to imitate whatever was new and unusual, and now the natural curiosity, which is as common to men as to apes, prompted him to open the chest and examine its contents.
人猿泰山有人类的身材和人类的大脑，但从训练和环境来看，他是一只猿。他的大脑告诉他，箱子里装着一些值钱的东西，否则人们不会把它藏起来。他所受的训练教会了他模仿任何新奇和不寻常的事物，而现在人类和猿猴一样普遍的自然好奇心促使他打开箱子并检查里面的东西。

But the heavy lock and massive iron bands baffled both his cunning and his immense strength, so that he was compelled to bury the chest without having his curiosity satisfied.
但沉重的锁和粗大的铁带却挫败了他的狡猾和巨大的力量，以至于他不得不在好奇心未得到满足的情况下将箱子埋了。

By the time Tarzan had hunted his way back to the vicinity of the cabin, feeding as he went, it was quite dark.
当泰山边吃边寻找路回到小屋附近时，天已经完全黑了。

Within the little building a light was burning, for Clayton had found an unopened tin of oil which had stood intact for twenty years, a part of the supplies left with the Claytons by Black Michael. The lamps also were still useable, and thus the interior of the cabin appeared as bright as day to the astonished Tarzan.
小楼里点着灯，因为克莱顿发现了一罐未开封的油，已经完好无损地保存了二十年，这是布莱克·迈克尔留给克莱顿家的部分物资。灯也还可以用，所以在惊讶的泰山看来，小屋内部明亮如白昼。

He had often wondered at the exact purpose of the lamps. His reading and the pictures had told him what they were, but he had no idea of how they could be made to produce the wondrous sunlight that some of his pictures had portrayed them as diffusing upon all surrounding objects.
他常常想知道这些灯的确切用途。他的阅读和图片告诉了他它们是什么，但他不知道如何使它们产生奇妙的阳光，他的一些图片将它们描绘成扩散到周围所有物体上。

As he approached the window nearest the door he saw that the cabin had been divided into two rooms by a rough partition of boughs and sailcloth.
当他走近最靠近门的窗户时，他看到小屋被粗粗的树枝和帆布隔断成两个房间。

In the front room were the three men; the two older deep in argument, while the younger, tilted back against the wall on an improvised stool, was deeply engrossed in reading one of Tarzan’s books.
前屋里坐着三个人。两个年长者正在争论，而年幼者则靠在墙上临时搭建的凳子上，全神贯注地阅读泰山的一本书。

Tarzan was not particularly interested in the men, however, so he sought the other window. There was the girl. How beautiful her features! How delicate her snowy skin!
然而，泰山对这些人并不是特别感兴趣，所以他寻找另一扇窗户。那就是那个女孩。她的五官多么美丽啊！她雪白的皮肤多么娇嫩啊！

She was writing at Tarzan’s own table beneath the window. Upon a pile of grasses at the far side of the room lay the Negress asleep.
她正在泰山窗下自己的桌子上写作。黑女人躺在房间另一边的一堆草上睡着了。

For an hour Tarzan feasted his eyes upon her while she wrote. How he longed to speak to her, but he dared not attempt it, for he was convinced that, like the young man, she would not understand him, and he feared, too, that he might frighten her away.
在她写作的过程中，泰山足足注视了她一个小时。他多么想和她说话，但他不敢尝试，因为他确信，像那个年轻人一样，她不会理解他，他也担心他会把她吓跑。

At length she arose, leaving her manuscript upon the table. She went to the bed upon which had been spread several layers of soft grasses. These she rearranged.
最后她站了起来，把手稿放在桌子上。她走到床上，床上铺着几层软草。这些都是她重新安排的。

Then she loosened the soft mass of golden hair which crowned her head. Like a shimmering waterfall turned to burnished metal by a dying sun it fell about her oval face; in waving lines, below her waist it tumbled.
然后她松开了头上那一团柔软的金色头发。就像一条闪闪发光的瀑布在夕阳西下变成了闪亮的金属，落在她椭圆形的脸上。它以波浪形的线条从她的腰部以下滚落。

Tarzan was spellbound. Then she extinguished the lamp and all within the cabin was wrapped in Cimmerian darkness.
泰山被迷住了。然后她熄灭了灯，小屋内全部笼罩在西梅里亚的黑暗中。

Still Tarzan watched. Creeping close beneath the window he waited, listening, for half an hour. At last he was rewarded by the sounds of the regular breathing within which denotes sleep.
泰山仍在观看。他蹑手蹑脚地爬到窗下，听着，等了半个小时。最后，他听到了规律的呼吸声，这代表着他已经睡着了。

Cautiously he intruded his hand between the meshes of the lattice until his whole arm was within the cabin. Carefully he felt upon the desk. At last he grasped the manuscript upon which Jane Porter had been writing, and as cautiously withdrew his arm and hand, holding the precious treasure.
他小心翼翼地将手伸进格子的网格之间，直到他的整个手臂都进入了机舱。他小心地摸着桌子。最后，他抓住了简·波特正在写的手稿，小心翼翼地缩回手臂和手，握住了这件珍贵的宝藏。

Tarzan folded the sheets into a small parcel which he tucked into the quiver with his arrows. Then he melted away into the jungle as softly and as noiselessly as a shadow.
泰山把床单折成一个小包裹，用箭塞进箭袋里。然后他像影子一样轻柔无声地消失在丛林里。

Chapter 18
第18章


The Jungle Toll
丛林收费

Early the following morning Tarzan awoke, and his first thought of the new day, as the last of yesterday, was of the wonderful writing which lay hidden in his quiver.
第二天一早，泰山醒来了，他对新的一天的第一个想法就是昨天的最后一天，他想到了隐藏在他箭袋里的精彩文字。

Hurriedly he brought it forth, hoping against hope that he could read what the beautiful white girl had written there the preceding evening.
他赶紧把它拿出来，满怀希望地希望自己能读到前一天晚上那个美丽的白人女孩在那里写的东西。

At the first glance he suffered a bitter disappointment; never before had he so yearned for anything as now he did for the ability to interpret a message from that golden-haired divinity who had come so suddenly and so unexpectedly into his life.
第一眼看到他时，他感到一阵苦涩的失望。他从来没有像现在这样渴望过任何事情，渴望能够解释来自这位突然、出乎意料地进入他生命的金发神灵的信息。

What did it matter if the message were not intended for him? It was an expression of her thoughts, and that was sufficient for Tarzan of the Apes.
如果这条信息不是发给他的，那又有什么关系呢？这是她思想的表达，这对于《人猿泰山》来说就足够了。

And now to be baffled by strange, uncouth characters the like of which he had never seen before! Why, they even tipped in the opposite direction from all that he had ever examined either in printed books or the difficult script of the few letters he had found.
现在却被他以前从未见过的奇怪、粗鲁的人物所困惑！为什么，它们甚至与他在印刷书籍或他发现的几封信件的困难文字中检查过的所有内容相反。

Even the little bugs of the black book were familiar friends, though their arrangement meant nothing to him; but these bugs were new and unheard of.
连黑书里的小虫子都是熟悉的朋友，虽然它们的排列对他来说毫无意义；但这些错误是新的、闻所未闻的。

For twenty minutes he pored over them, when suddenly they commenced to take familiar though distorted shapes. Ah, they were his old friends, but badly crippled.
他盯着它们看了二十分钟，突然它们开始呈现出熟悉但扭曲的形状。啊，他们是他的老朋友，但都残废了。

Then he began to make out a word here and a word there. His heart leaped for joy. He could read it, and he would.
然后他开始辨认出这里一个词、那里一个词。他的心欢喜地跳动。他能读懂它，而且他会的。

In another half hour he was progressing rapidly, and, but for an exceptional word now and again, he found it very plain sailing.
又过了半个小时，他的进展很快，而且，除了偶尔出现的特殊词之外，他发现一切都很顺利。

Here is what he read:
以下是他读到的内容：

WEST COAST OF AFRICA, ABOUT 10X DEGREES SOUTH
非洲西海岸，南纬约 10 度

LATITUDE. (So Mr. Clayton says.)
纬度。 （克莱顿先生如是说。）

February 3 (?), 1909.
1909 年 2 月 3 日（？）。

DEAREST HAZEL:
最亲爱的榛树：

It seems foolish to write you a letter that you may never see, but I simply must tell somebody of our awful experiences since we sailed from Europe on the ill-fated Arrow.
给你写一封你可能永远不会看到的信似乎很愚蠢，但我必须告诉某人自从我们乘坐不幸的阿罗号从欧洲航行以来我们的可怕经历。

If we never return to civilization, as now seems only too likely, this will at least prove a brief record of the events which led up to our final fate, whatever it may be.
如果我们永远不会回到文明世界（现在看来很有可能），那么这至少将证明导致我们最终命运的事件的简短记录，无论它是什么。

As you know, we were supposed to have set out upon a scientific expedition to the Congo. Papa was presumed to entertain some wondrous theory of an unthinkably ancient civilization, the remains of which lay buried somewhere in the Congo valley. But after we were well under sail the truth came out.
如你所知，我们本来应该出发去刚果进行科学考察。据推测，爸爸对一种不可思议的古老文明抱有某种奇妙的理论，其遗迹埋藏在刚果河谷的某个地方。但当我们顺利航行后，真相就水落石出了。

It seems that an old bookworm who has a book and curio shop in Baltimore discovered between the leaves of a very old Spanish manuscript a letter written in 1550 detailing the adventures of a crew of mutineers of a Spanish galleon bound from Spain to South America with a vast treasure of ‘doubloons’ and ‘pieces of eight,’ I suppose, for they certainly sound weird and piraty.
一位在巴尔的摩拥有一家书籍和古玩店的老书虫似乎在一本非常古老的西班牙手稿的书页之间发现了一封写于 1550 年的信，详细描述了一艘西班牙大帆船上的一群叛变者的冒险经历，他们带着我想，这是“达布隆”和“八块”的巨大宝藏，因为它们听起来确实很奇怪和盗版。

The writer had been one of the crew, and the letter was to his son, who was, at the very time the letter was written, master of a Spanish merchantman.
作者是船员之一，这封信是写给他的儿子的，在写这封信的时候，他的儿子是一位西班牙商船的船长。

Many years had elapsed since the events the letter narrated had transpired, and the old man had become a respected citizen of an obscure Spanish town, but the love of gold was still so strong upon him that he risked all to acquaint his son with the means of attaining fabulous wealth for them both.
自从信中所叙述的事件发生以来，已经过去很多年了，老人已经成为一个不起眼的西班牙小镇上受人尊敬的公民，但他对黄金的热爱仍然如此强烈，以至于他冒着一切风险让他的儿子了解这些方法。为他们俩获得巨额财富。

The writer told how when but a week out from Spain the crew had mutinied and murdered every officer and man who opposed them; but they defeated their own ends by this very act, for there was none left competent to navigate a ship at sea.
作者讲述了在离开西班牙仅一周的时间里，船员们如何叛变并杀害了每一位反对他们的军官和男子；但他们的这一举动却破坏了自己的目的，因为没有人能够在海上驾驶船只。

They were blown hither and thither for two months, until sick and dying of scurvy, starvation, and thirst, they had been wrecked on a small islet.
他们被风吹来吹去两个月，直到因坏血病、饥饿和口渴而生病并濒临死亡，最后在一座小岛上失事。

The galleon was washed high upon the beach where she went to pieces; but not before the survivors, who numbered but ten souls, had rescued one of the great chests of treasure.
大帆船被高高的冲到海滩上，然后变成了碎片。但在此之前，只有十个人的幸存者已经救出了其中一个巨大的宝箱。

This they buried well up on the island, and for three years they lived there in constant hope of being rescued.
他们把它埋在岛上，三年来他们一直希望能获救。

One by one they sickened and died, until only one man was left, the writer of the letter.
他们一一患病、死亡，直到只剩下一个人，那就是这封信的作者。

The men had built a boat from the wreckage of the galleon, but having no idea where the island was located they had not dared to put to sea.
人们用大帆船的残骸建造了一艘船，但由于不知道该岛位于何处，他们不敢出海。

When all were dead except himself, however, the awful loneliness so weighed upon the mind of the sole survivor that he could endure it no longer, and choosing to risk death upon the open sea rather than madness on the lonely isle, he set sail in his little boat after nearly a year of solitude.
然而，当除了他自己之外，所有人都死了，可怕的孤独感如此沉重地压在唯一幸存者的心上，他再也无法忍受，他选择在公海上冒着死亡的危险，而不是在孤独的岛上疯狂，他起航了他的小船在经历了近一年的孤独之后。

Fortunately he sailed due north, and within a week was in the track of the Spanish merchantmen plying between the West Indies and Spain, and was picked up by one of these vessels homeward bound.
幸运的是，他向正北航行，一周之内就发现了往返于西印度群岛和西班牙之间的西班牙商船的踪迹，并被其中一艘返航的船只接走。

The story he told was merely one of shipwreck in which all but a few had perished, the balance, except himself, dying after they reached the island. He did not mention the mutiny or the chest of buried treasure.
他讲述的故事只不过是一场海难，除了少数人外，所有人都遇难了，除了他自己之外，其余的人在到达岛上后都死去了。他没有提到叛变或埋藏宝藏的箱子。

The master of the merchantman assured him that from the position at which they had picked him up, and the prevailing winds for the past week he could have been on no other island than one of the Cape Verde group, which lie off the West Coast of Africa in about 16x or 17x north latitude.
商船的船长向他保证，从他们接他的位置以及过去一周的盛行风来看，他不可能是在佛得角群岛中的一个岛屿上，该岛位于佛得角西海岸附近。非洲位于北纬 16 倍或 17 倍左右。

His letter described the island minutely, as well as the location of the treasure, and was accompanied by the crudest, funniest little old map you ever saw; with trees and rocks all marked by scrawly X’s to show the exact spot where the treasure had been buried.
他的信详细描述了这座岛屿以及宝藏的位置，并附有你所见过的最原始、最有趣的小旧地图；树木和岩石上都标有潦草的X，以显示宝藏埋藏的确切位置。

When papa explained the real nature of the expedition, my heart sank, for I know so well how visionary and impractical the poor dear has always been that I feared that he had again been duped; especially when he told me he had paid a thousand dollars for the letter and map.
当爸爸解释这次探险的真实性质时，我的心沉了下去，因为我非常清楚这个可怜的亲爱的人一直是多么的有远见和不切实际，我担心他再次被骗了。尤其是当他告诉我他为这封信和地图支付了一千美元时。

To add to my distress, I learned that he had borrowed ten thousand dollars more from Robert Canler, and had given his notes for the amount.
更让我难过的是，我得知他又向罗伯特·坎勒借了一万美元，并提供了这笔金额的票据。

Mr. Canler had asked for no security, and you know, dearie, what that will mean for me if papa cannot meet them. Oh, how I detest that man!
坎勒先生没有要求任何担保，亲爱的，你知道，如果爸爸不能见他们，这对我意味着什么。噢，我多么厌恶这个人啊！

We all tried to look on the bright side of things, but Mr. Philander, and Mr. Clayton—he joined us in London just for the adventure—both felt as skeptical as I.
我们都试图看到事情光明的一面，但菲兰德先生和克莱顿先生——他来到伦敦加入我们只是为了冒险——两人都像我一样感到怀疑。

Well, to make a long story short, we found the island and the treasure—a great iron-bound oak chest, wrapped in many layers of oiled sailcloth, and as strong and firm as when it had been buried nearly two hundred years ago.
好吧，长话短说，我们找到了这座岛屿和宝藏——一个巨大的铁皮橡木箱子，包裹着多层涂油的帆布，坚固耐用，就像近两百年前被埋葬时一样。

It was SIMPLY FILLED with gold coin, and was so heavy that four men bent underneath its weight.
它只是装满了金币，而且太重了，四个人都被它的重量压弯了。

The horrid thing seems to bring nothing but murder and misfortune to those who have anything to do with it, for three days after we sailed from the Cape Verde Islands our own crew mutinied and killed every one of their officers.
这件可怕的事情似乎只给那些与之有关的人带来谋杀和不幸，在我们从佛得角群岛起航三天后，我们自己的船员叛变并杀死了他们的每一位军官。

Oh, it was the most terrifying experience one could imagine—I cannot even write of it.
哦，这是人们能想象到的最可怕的经历——我什至无法写下来。

They were going to kill us too, but one of them, the leader, named King, would not let them, and so they sailed south along the coast to a lonely spot where they found a good harbor, and here they landed and have left us.
他们也想杀了我们，但是其中一个领导者，名叫国王，不让他们这么做，于是他们沿着海岸向南航行，到了一个偏僻的地方，在那里他们找到了一个好港口，在这里他们登陆并离开了。我们。

They sailed away with the treasure to-day, but Mr. Clayton says they will meet with a fate similar to the mutineers of the ancient galleon, because King, the only man aboard who knew aught of navigation, was murdered on the beach by one of the men the day we landed.
他们今天带着宝藏启航了，但克莱顿先生说，他们将遇到与古代大帆船上的叛变者类似的命运，因为金是船上唯一懂航海的人，在海滩上被一个人谋杀了。我们着陆那天的人。

I wish you could know Mr. Clayton; he is the dearest fellow imaginable, and unless I am mistaken he has fallen very much in love with me.
我希望你能认识克莱顿先生；他是你能想象到的最可爱的人，除非我弄错了，否则他已经非常爱我了。

He is the only son of Lord Greystoke, and some day will inherit the title and estates. In addition, he is wealthy in his own right, but the fact that he is going to be an English Lord makes me very sad—you know what my sentiments have always been relative to American girls who married titled foreigners. Oh, if he were only a plain American gentleman!
他是格雷斯托克勋爵唯一的儿子，有一天他将继承爵位和财产。此外，他本身就很富有，但他将成为一名英国勋爵这一事实让我非常难过——你知道我对嫁给有头衔的外国人的美国女孩的感情一直是怎样的。哦，如果他只是一位普通的美国绅士该多好啊！

But it isn’t his fault, poor fellow, and in everything except birth he would do credit to my country, and that is the greatest compliment I know how to pay any man.
但这不是他的错，可怜的家伙，除了出生之外，在一切事情上他都会为我的国家做出贡献，这是我所知道的对任何人的最大赞美。

We have had the most weird experiences since we were landed here. Papa and Mr. Philander lost in the jungle, and chased by a real lion.
自从我们降落在这里以来，我们经历了最奇怪的经历。爸爸和菲兰德先生在丛林中迷路了，并被一只真正的狮子追赶。

Mr. Clayton lost, and attacked twice by wild beasts. Esmeralda and I cornered in an old cabin by a perfectly awful man-eating lioness. Oh, it was simply ‘terrifical,’ as Esmeralda would say.
克莱顿先生输了，并两次遭到野兽的袭击。埃斯梅拉达和我被一头可怕的食人母狮逼到了一间破旧的小屋里。哦，正如埃斯梅拉达所说，这简直是“太棒了”。

But the strangest part of it all is the wonderful creature who rescued us. I have not seen him, but Mr. Clayton and papa and Mr. Philander have, and they say that he is a perfectly god-like white man tanned to a dusky brown, with the strength of a wild elephant, the agility of a monkey, and the bravery of a lion.
但最奇怪的部分是拯救我们的奇妙生物。我没见过他，但克莱顿先生、爸爸和菲兰德先生见过，他们说他是一个完美的上帝般的白人，被晒成暗褐色，具有野象的力量，猴子的敏捷，以及狮子的勇敢。

He speaks no English and vanishes as quickly and as mysteriously after he has performed some valorous deed, as though he were a disembodied spirit.
他不会说英语，在做出一些英勇的事迹后，他就迅速而神秘地消失了，就好像他是一个没有实体的灵魂一样。

Then we have another weird neighbor, who printed a beautiful sign in English and tacked it on the door of his cabin, which we have preempted, warning us to destroy none of his belongings, and signing himself ‘Tarzan of the Apes.’
然后我们还有另一个奇怪的邻居，他用英文印了一个漂亮的标语，并将其钉在我们抢占的他的小屋的门上，警告我们不要毁坏他的任何物品，并在自己的签名上写着“人猿泰山”。

We have never seen him, though we think he is about, for one of the sailors, who was going to shoot Mr. Clayton in the back, received a spear in his shoulder from some unseen hand in the jungle.
我们从未见过他，尽管我们认为他就在附近，因为一名水手正要向克莱顿先生的背后开枪，他的肩膀被丛林中一只看不见的手刺中了。

The sailors left us but a meager supply of food, so, as we have only a single revolver with but three cartridges left in it, we do not know how we can procure meat, though Mr. Philander says that we can exist indefinitely on the wild fruit and nuts which abound in the jungle.
水手们只给我们留下了微薄的食物，因此，由于我们只剩下一把左轮手枪，里面只剩下三个子弹，我们不知道如何才能获得肉类，尽管菲兰德先生说我们可以无限期地存在于地球上。丛林中盛产野果和坚果。

I am very tired now, so I shall go to my funny bed of grasses which Mr. Clayton gathered for me, but will add to this from day to day as things happen. Lovingly, JANE PORTER.
我现在很累了，所以我会去克莱顿先生为我收集的有趣的草床，但随着事情的发生，我会每天增加它。亲爱的，简·波特。

TO HAZEL STRONG, BALTIMORE, MD.
致海兹尔·斯特朗 (Hazel Strong)，巴尔的摩，马里兰州。

Tarzan sat in a brown study for a long time after he finished reading the letter. It was filled with so many new and wonderful things that his brain was in a whirl as he attempted to digest them all.
读完信后，泰山在棕色的书房里坐了很长时间。里面充满了太多新奇奇妙的东西，他的大脑一片混乱，试图将它们全部消化掉。

So they did not know that he was Tarzan of the Apes. He would tell them.
所以他们不知道他就是人猿泰山。他会告诉他们。

In his tree he had constructed a rude shelter of leaves and boughs, beneath which, protected from the rain, he had placed the few treasures brought from the cabin. Among these were some pencils.
他在树上用树叶和树枝搭建了一个简陋的庇护所，在庇护所下面放置了从小屋里带来的一些财宝，以防被雨淋到。其中有一些铅笔。

He took one, and beneath Jane Porter’s signature he wrote:
他拿了一张，并在简·波特的签名下写道：

I am Tarzan of the Apes
我是人猿泰山

He thought that would be sufficient. Later he would return the letter to the cabin.
他认为这就足够了。随后他会将信退回小屋。

In the matter of food, thought Tarzan, they had no need to worry—he would provide, and he did.
在食物方面，泰山想，他们不需要担心——他会提供，而且他确实做到了。

The next morning Jane found her missing letter in the exact spot from which it had disappeared two nights before. She was mystified; but when she saw the printed words beneath her signature, she felt a cold, clammy chill run up her spine. She showed the letter, or rather the last sheet with the signature, to Clayton.
第二天早上，简在两天前丢失的信所在的地方找到了她丢失的信。她很困惑；但当她看到签名下面的印刷字时，她感到一股冰冷的寒意从脊椎升起。她把这封信，或者更确切地说是最后一张带有签名的纸给克莱顿看。

‘And to think,’ she said, ‘that uncanny thing was probably watching me all the time that I was writing—oo! It makes me shudder just to think of it.’
“想想看，”她说，“那个不可思议的东西可能一直在看着我——哦！一想到它就让我不寒而栗。

‘But he must be friendly,’ reassured Clayton, ‘for he has returned your letter, nor did he offer to harm you, and unless I am mistaken he left a very substantial memento of his friendship outside the cabin door last night, for I just found the carcass of a wild boar there as I came out.’
“但他一定很友好，”克莱顿安慰道，“因为他已经退回了你的信，也没有提出要伤害你，除非我弄错了，否则他昨晚在小屋门外留下了一件非常重要的友谊纪念品，因为我当我出来时，我刚刚在那里发现了一头野猪的尸体。”

From then on scarcely a day passed that did not bring its offering of game or other food. Sometimes it was a young deer, again a quantity of strange, cooked food—cassava cakes pilfered from the village of Mbonga—or a boar, or leopard, and once a lion.
从那时起，几乎没有一天不送来野味或其他食物。有时是一只小鹿，又是一些奇怪的煮熟的食物——从姆邦加村偷来的木薯饼——或者是野猪，或豹子，有时是狮子。

Tarzan derived the greatest pleasure of his life in hunting meat for these strangers. It seemed to him that no pleasure on earth could compare with laboring for the welfare and protection of the beautiful white girl.
泰山一生中最大的乐趣就是为这些陌生人狩猎肉食。在他看来，世上没有什么乐趣能与为美丽的白人女孩的福利和保护而劳动相比。

Some day he would venture into the camp in daylight and talk with these people through the medium of the little bugs which were familiar to them and to Tarzan.
有一天，他会在白天冒险进入营地，通过他们和泰山熟悉的小虫子与这些人交谈。

But he found it difficult to overcome the timidity of the wild thing of the forest, and so day followed day without seeing a fulfillment of his good intentions.
但他发现很难克服森林里野兽的胆怯，所以日复一日，他的好意却不见实现。

The party in the camp, emboldened by familiarity, wandered farther and yet farther into the jungle in search of nuts and fruit.
营地里的一行人因熟悉而壮了胆，在丛林中越走越远，寻找坚果和水果。

Scarcely a day passed that did not find Professor Porter straying in his preoccupied indifference toward the jaws of death. Mr. Samuel T. Philander, never what one might call robust, was worn to the shadow of a shadow through the ceaseless worry and mental distraction resultant from his Herculean efforts to safeguard the professor.
波特教授几乎每天都在全神贯注的冷漠中迷失方向，走向死亡之口。塞缪尔·T·菲兰德先生从来都不是一个强健的人，但由于他为保护教授而付出的巨大努力，导致了无休止的忧虑和精神分心，他已经被磨得精疲力尽了。

A month passed. Tarzan had finally determined to visit the camp by daylight.
一个月过去了。泰山最终决定在白天参观营地。

It was early afternoon. Clayton had wandered to the point at the harbor’s mouth to look for passing vessels. Here he kept a great mass of wood, high piled, ready to be ignited as a signal should a steamer or a sail top the far horizon.
当时是下午早些时候。克莱顿漫步到港口的入口处寻找过往的船只。他在这里存放了大量的木头，堆得高高的，一旦有汽船或帆驶过遥远的地平线，就可以将其点燃作为信号。

Professor Porter was wandering along the beach south of the camp with Mr. Philander at his elbow, urging him to turn his steps back before the two became again the sport of some savage beast.
波特教授正沿着营地南面的海滩漫步，菲兰德先生就在他的身边，催促他在两人再次成为某种野蛮野兽的猎物之前回头。

The others gone, Jane and Esmeralda had wandered into the jungle to gather fruit, and in their search were led farther and farther from the cabin.
其他人都走了，简和艾斯梅拉达走进丛林去采摘水果，在寻找过程中，他们离小屋越来越远。

Tarzan waited in silence before the door of the little house until they should return. His thoughts were of the beautiful white girl. They were always of her now. He wondered if she would fear him, and the thought all but caused him to relinquish his plan.
泰山在小房子门口默默地等待着他们回来。他的想法是那个美丽的白人女孩。现在它们永远是她的了。他想知道她是否会害怕他，这个想法几乎让他放弃了他的计划。

He was rapidly becoming impatient for her return, that he might feast his eyes upon her and be near her, perhaps touch her. The ape-man knew no god, but he was as near to worshipping his divinity as mortal man ever comes to worship. While he waited he passed the time printing a message to her; whether he intended giving it to her he himself could not have told, but he took infinite pleasure in seeing his thoughts expressed in print—in which he was not so uncivilized after all. He wrote:
他很快就对她的归来变得不耐烦了，他希望能够大饱眼福地看着她，靠近她，也许还能触摸她。猿人不认识神，但他却像凡人所崇拜的那样接近于崇拜他的神性。当他等待的时候，他打印了一条消息给她，以此打发时间。他自己也说不清楚他是否打算把它送给她，但他很高兴看到自己的想法被印刷出来——毕竟他在印刷品中并不是那么不文明。他写了：

I am Tarzan of the Apes. I want you. I am yours. You are mine. We live here together always in my house. I will bring you the best of fruits, the tenderest deer, the finest meats that roam the jungle. I will hunt for you. I am the greatest of the jungle fighters. I will fight for you. I am the mightiest of the jungle fighters. You are Jane Porter, I saw it in your letter. When you see this you will know that it is for you and that Tarzan of the Apes loves you.
我是人猿泰山。我要你。我是你的。你是我的。我们总是一起住在我的房子里。我会给你带来最好的水果、最嫩的鹿、丛林里最好的肉。我会寻找你。我是最伟大的丛林战士。我会为你而战。我是丛林战士中最强大的。你是简·波特，我在你的信中看到了。当你看到这个时，你就会知道这是给你的，人猿泰山爱你。

As he stood, straight as a young Indian, by the door, waiting after he had finished the message, there came to his keen ears a familiar sound. It was the passing of a great ape through the lower branches of the forest.
当他像一个年轻的印第安人一样笔直地站在门口，等他说完信息时，他敏锐的耳朵里传来了熟悉的声音。这是一只巨猿穿过森林低处的树枝。

For an instant he listened intently, and then from the jungle came the agonized scream of a woman, and Tarzan of the Apes, dropping his first love letter upon the ground, shot like a panther into the forest.
他全神贯注地听了一会儿，然后丛林中传来了女人痛苦的尖叫声，人猿泰山将他的第一封情书扔在地上，像黑豹一样冲进了森林。

Clayton, also, heard the scream, and Professor Porter and Mr. Philander, and in a few minutes they came panting to the cabin, calling out to each other a volley of excited questions as they approached. A glance within confirmed their worst fears.
克莱顿也听到了尖叫声，还有波特教授和菲兰德先生，几分钟后，他们气喘吁吁地来到小屋，一边走近一边互相喊出一连串兴奋的问题。向内一看，证实了他们最担心的事情。

Jane and Esmeralda were not there.
简和埃斯梅拉达不在那里。

Instantly, Clayton, followed by the two old men, plunged into the jungle, calling the girl’s name aloud. For half an hour they stumbled on, until Clayton, by merest chance, came upon the prostrate form of Esmeralda.
旋即，克莱顿在两位老人的身后，冲进了丛林，大声呼喊着女孩的名字。他们跌跌撞撞地走了半个小时，直到克莱顿偶然发现了艾斯梅拉达倒下的身影。

He stopped beside her, feeling for her pulse and then listening for her heartbeats. She lived. He shook her.
他停在她身边，摸着她的脉搏，然后听着她的心跳。她住过。他摇晃着她。

‘Esmeralda!’ he shrieked in her ear. ‘Esmeralda! For God’s sake, where is Miss Porter? What has happened? Esmeralda!’
“艾斯梅拉达！”他在她耳边尖叫。 “埃斯梅拉达！老天爷，波特小姐在哪儿？发生了什么事？埃斯梅拉达！’

Slowly Esmeralda opened her eyes. She saw Clayton. She saw the jungle about her.
埃斯梅拉达缓缓睁开了眼睛。她看到了克莱顿。她看到了她周围的丛林。

‘Oh, Gaberelle!’ she screamed, and fainted again.
“哦，加贝雷尔！”她尖叫着，又晕了过去。

By this time Professor Porter and Mr. Philander had come up.
这时波特教授和菲兰德先生已经过来了。

‘What shall we do, Mr. Clayton?’ asked the old professor. ‘Where shall we look? God could not have been so cruel as to take my little girl away from me now.’
“我们该怎么办，克莱顿先生？”老教授问道。 ‘我们该往哪里看？上帝不可能这么残忍，现在就把我的小女儿从我身边带走。”

‘We must arouse Esmeralda first,’ replied Clayton. ‘She can tell us what has happened. Esmeralda!’ he cried again, shaking the black woman roughly by the shoulder.
“我们必须先唤醒埃斯梅拉达，”克莱顿回答道。 “她可以告诉我们发生了什么事。埃斯梅拉达！”他又喊道，粗暴地摇晃着黑人妇女的肩膀。

‘O Gaberelle, I want to die!’ cried the poor woman, but with eyes fast closed. ‘Let me die, dear Lord, don’t let me see that awful face again.’
“哦，加贝雷尔，我想死！”可怜的女人大声喊道，但她的眼睛紧紧闭着。 “让我死吧，亲爱的主，不要让我再次看到那张可怕的脸。”

‘Come, come, Esmeralda,’ cried Clayton.
“来吧，来吧，埃斯梅拉达，”克莱顿喊道。

‘The Lord isn’t here; it’s Mr. Clayton. Open your eyes.’
‘主不在这里；我是克莱顿先生。张开你的眼睛。'

Esmeralda did as she was bade.
埃斯梅拉达按照她的吩咐做了。

‘O Gaberelle! Thank the Lord,’ she said.
‘啊，加贝雷尔！感谢主，”她说。

‘Where’s Miss Porter? What happened?’ questioned Clayton.
“波特小姐在哪儿？发生了什么事？”克莱顿问道。

‘Ain’t Miss Jane here?’ cried Esmeralda, sitting up with wonderful celerity for one of her bulk. ‘Oh, Lord, now I remember! It must have took her away,’ and the Negress commenced to sob, and wail her lamentations.
“简小姐不在吗？”埃斯梅拉达喊道，她以惊人的速度坐了起来。 ‘哦，主啊，现在我想起来了！它肯定把她带走了，”黑人女人开始抽泣，哀嚎起来。

‘What took her away?’ cried Professor Porter.
“是什么带走了她？”波特教授喊道。

‘A great big giant all covered with hair.’
“一个浑身长满毛发的巨大巨人。”

‘A gorilla, Esmeralda?’ questioned Mr. Philander, and the three men scarcely breathed as he voiced the horrible thought.
“大猩猩，埃斯梅拉达？”菲兰德先生问道，当他说出这个可怕的想法时，三个人几乎都屏住了呼吸。

‘I thought it was the devil; but I guess it must have been one of them gorilephants. Oh, my poor baby, my poor little honey,’ and again Esmeralda broke into uncontrollable sobbing.
“我以为那是魔鬼；但我猜它肯定是其中一只巨兽。哦，我可怜的宝贝，我可怜的小宝贝，”埃斯梅拉达再次无法控制地抽泣起来。

Clayton immediately began to look about for tracks, but he could find nothing save a confusion of trampled grasses in the close vicinity, and his woodcraft was too meager for the translation of what he did see.
克莱顿立即开始寻找踪迹，但除了附近一片混乱的被践踏的草丛之外，他什么也找不到，而且他的木工技术太贫乏，无法翻译他所看到的东西。

All the balance of the day they sought through the jungle; but as night drew on they were forced to give up in despair and hopelessness, for they did not even know in what direction the thing had borne Jane.
他们在丛林中寻找这一天的平衡；但随着夜幕降临，他们被迫在绝望和绝望中放弃，因为他们甚至不知道那东西把简带到了哪个方向。

It was long after dark ere they reached the cabin, and a sad and grief-stricken party it was that sat silently within the little structure.
天黑后很久，他们才到达小屋，一群悲痛欲绝的人静静地坐在这个小建筑里。

Professor Porter finally broke the silence. His tones were no longer those of the erudite pedant theorizing upon the abstract and the unknowable; but those of the man of action— determined, but tinged also by a note of indescribable hopelessness and grief which wrung an answering pang from Clayton’s heart.
波特教授终于打破了沉默。他的语气不再是那些博学的学究们对抽象和不可知的事物进行理论分析的语气；但那些实干家的态度——决心坚定，但也带有一种难以形容的绝望和悲伤的色彩，这让克莱顿的心一阵剧痛。

‘I shall lie down now,’ said the old man, ‘and try to sleep. Early to-morrow, as soon as it is light, I shall take what food I can carry and continue the search until I have found Jane. I will not return without her.’
“我现在要躺下，”老人说，“试着睡觉。”明天一早，天一亮，我就带着我能带的食物继续寻找，直到找到简。没有她我就不会回来。

His companions did not reply at once. Each was immersed in his own sorrowful thoughts, and each knew, as did the old professor, what the last words meant—Professor Porter would never return from the jungle.
他的同伴没有立即回答。每个人都沉浸在自己悲伤的思绪中，每个人都像老教授一样，知道最后一句话的含义——波特教授永远不会从丛林中回来。

At length Clayton arose and laid his hand gently upon Professor Porter’s bent old shoulder.
最后，克莱顿站起来，把手轻轻地放在波特教授弯曲的老肩膀上。

‘I shall go with you, of course,’ he said.
“当然，我会和你一起去，”他说。

‘I knew that you would offer—that you would wish to go, Mr. Clayton; but you must not. Jane is beyond human assistance now. What was once my dear little girl shall not lie alone and friendless in the awful jungle.
“我知道你会提出——你愿意去，克莱顿先生；但你一定不能。简现在已经无法依靠人类的帮助了。曾经我亲爱的小女孩将不再孤单无依地躺在可怕的丛林里。

‘The same vines and leaves will cover us, the same rains beat upon us; and when the spirit of her mother is abroad, it will find us together in death, as it has always found us in life.
“同样的藤蔓和树叶将覆盖我们，同样的雨水将袭击我们；当她母亲的灵魂在国外时，它会在死亡中找到我们，就像它在生前总是找到我们一样。

‘No; it is I alone who may go, for she was my daughter— all that was left on earth for me to love.’
'不;只有我一个人可以去，因为她是我的女儿——地球上只剩下我可以爱的人了。

‘I shall go with you,’ said Clayton simply.
“我和你一起去，”克莱顿简单地说。

The old man looked up, regarding the strong, handsome face of William Cecil Clayton intently. Perhaps he read there the love that lay in the heart beneath—the love for his daughter.
老人抬起头，专注地看着威廉·塞西尔·克莱顿那张坚毅而英俊的脸。也许他在那里读到了内心深处的爱——对女儿的爱。

He had been too preoccupied with his own scholarly thoughts in the past to consider the little occurrences, the chance words, which would have indicated to a more practical man that these young people were being drawn more and more closely to one another. Now they came back to him, one by one.
过去他太专注于自己的学术思想，没有考虑到那些小事、偶然的话语，而对于一个更实际的人来说，这些小事和偶然的话语会表明这些年轻人彼此之间的关系越来越密切。现在他们一一回到了他身边。

‘As you wish,’ he said.
“如你所愿，”他说。

‘You may count on me, also,’ said Mr. Philander.
“你也可以信赖我，”菲兰德先生说。

‘No, my dear old friend,’ said Professor Porter. ‘We may not all go. It would be cruelly wicked to leave poor Esmeralda here alone, and three of us would be no more successful than one.
“不，我亲爱的老朋友，”波特教授说。 ‘我们可能不会全部都走。如果把可怜的埃斯梅拉达独自留在这里，那就太邪恶了，我们三个人也不会比一个人更成功。

‘There be enough dead things in the cruel forest as it is. Come—let us try to sleep a little.’
‘残酷的森林里已经有足够多的死物了。来吧——让我们试着睡一会儿。

Chapter 19
第19章


The Call of the Primitive
原始的呼唤

From the time Tarzan left the tribe of great anthropoids in which he had been raised, it was torn by continual strife and discord. Terkoz proved a cruel and capricious king, so that, one by one, many of the older and weaker apes, upon whom he was particularly prone to vent his brutish nature, took their families and sought the quiet and safety of the far interior.
自从泰山离开他长大的类人猿部落以来，这个部落就被持续不断的冲突和不和所撕裂。事实证明，泰尔科兹是一位残酷而反复无常的国王，因此，许多年老体弱的猿类，尤其是他特别容易发泄其野蛮本性的人，都带着他们的家人，一一前往遥远的内陆寻求安静和安全。

But at last those who remained were driven to desperation by the continued truculence of Terkoz, and it so happened that one of them recalled the parting admonition of Tarzan:
但最后，泰尔科兹的持续暴虐将那些留下来的人逼入了绝望，而其中一位碰巧回忆起了泰山临别时的告诫：

‘If you have a chief who is cruel, do not do as the other apes do, and attempt, any one of you, to pit yourself against him alone. But, instead, let two or three or four of you attack him together. Then, if you will do this, no chief will dare to be other than he should be, for four of you can kill any chief who may ever be over you.’
‘如果你们的酋长很残忍，就不要像其他猿猴那样做，你们中的任何一个人都不要试图单独对抗他。但是，相反，让你们两个或三个或四个人一起攻击他。然后，如果你这样做，没有哪个酋长敢做出不该做的事，因为你们四个人就可以杀死任何可能在你们之上的酋长。

And the ape who recalled this wise counsel repeated it to several of his fellows, so that when Terkoz returned to the tribe that day he found a warm reception awaiting him.
猿猴想起了这个明智的忠告，又向他的几个同伴重复了一遍，因此当泰尔科兹那天回到部落时，他发现等待着他的是热情的接待。

There were no formalities. As Terkoz reached the group, five huge, hairy beasts sprang upon him.
没有任何手续。当泰尔科兹到达人群时，五只巨大的毛茸茸的野兽向他扑来。

At heart he was an arrant coward, which is the way with bullies among apes as well as among men; so he did not remain to fight and die, but tore himself away from them as quickly as he could and fled into the sheltering boughs of the forest.
从本质上来说，他是个彻头彻尾的胆小鬼，无论是在猿类中还是在人类中，欺凌者都是如此。因此，他没有留下来战斗和死亡，而是尽快逃离他们，逃进森林的避难树枝中。

Two more attempts he made to rejoin the tribe, but on each occasion he was set upon and driven away. At last he gave it up, and turned, foaming with rage and hatred, into the jungle.
他又两次尝试重新加入部落，但每次都遭到袭击并被赶走。最后他放弃了，带着愤怒和仇恨，转身走进了丛林。

For several days he wandered aimlessly, nursing his spite and looking for some weak thing on which to vent his pent anger.
一连几天，他漫无目的地闲逛，怀着怨恨，寻找一些软弱的东西来发泄心中压抑的愤怒。

It was in this state of mind that the horrible, man-like beast, swinging from tree to tree, came suddenly upon two women in the jungle.
正是在这种心态下，那头可怕的人形野兽从一棵树荡到另一棵树，突然袭击了丛林中的两个女人。

He was right above them when he discovered them. The first intimation Jane Porter had of his presence was when the great hairy body dropped to the earth beside her, and she saw the awful face and the snarling, hideous mouth thrust within a foot of her.
当他发现他们时，他就在他们的上方。简·波特第一次感觉到他的存在，是当那巨大的毛茸茸的身体落在她身边的地上时，她看到那张可怕的脸和那张咆哮的、丑陋的嘴就在她身边一英尺之内。

One piercing scream escaped her lips as the brute hand clutched her arm. Then she was dragged toward those awful fangs which yawned at her throat. But ere they touched that fair skin another mood claimed the anthropoid.
当那只粗暴的手抓住她的手臂时，一声刺耳的尖叫从她的嘴唇中逸出。然后她被拖向那些在她喉咙处张开的可怕獠牙。但在他们触摸那片白皙的皮肤之前，另一种情绪夺走了类人猿的生命。

The tribe had kept his women. He must find others to replace them. This hairless white ape would be the first of his new household, and so he threw her roughly across his broad, hairy shoulders and leaped back into the trees, bearing Jane away.
部落保留了他的女人。他必须找到其他人来代替他们。这只无毛的白猿将是他新家庭中的第一只，所以他粗鲁地把她扔到他宽阔、毛茸茸的肩膀上，然后跳回树林里，把简抱走了。

Esmeralda’s scream of terror had mingled once with that of Jane, and then, as was Esmeralda’s manner under stress of emergency which required presence of mind, she swooned.
埃斯梅拉达的恐怖尖叫声与简的尖叫声混合在一起，然后，就像埃斯梅拉达在需要保持冷静的紧急压力下的态度一样，她昏倒了。

But Jane did not once lose consciousness. It is true that that awful face, pressing close to hers, and the stench of the foul breath beating upon her nostrils, paralyzed her with terror; but her brain was clear, and she comprehended all that transpired.
但简并没有失去知觉。确实，那张可怕的脸紧贴着她的脸，恶臭的气息扑打着她的鼻孔，使她惊恐得全身瘫痪。但她的头脑很清醒，她明白发生的一切。

With what seemed to her marvelous rapidity the brute bore her through the forest, but still she did not cry out or struggle. The sudden advent of the ape had confused her to such an extent that she thought now that he was bearing her toward the beach.
在她看来，这头野兽以惊人的速度带着她穿过森林，但她仍然没有喊叫或挣扎。猿猴的突然出现让她很困惑，她现在以为他正带着她走向海滩。

For this reason she conserved her energies and her voice until she could see that they had approached near enough to the camp to attract the succor she craved.
出于这个原因，她保留了自己的精力和声音，直到她看到他们已经足够接近营地以吸引她渴望的救援。

She could not have known it, but she was being borne farther and farther into the impenetrable jungle.
她不可能知道，她正被带入越来越远的密林之中。

The scream that had brought Clayton and the two older men stumbling through the undergrowth had led Tarzan of the Apes straight to where Esmeralda lay, but it was not Esmeralda in whom his interest centered, though pausing over her he saw that she was unhurt.
克莱顿和两个年长的男人跌跌撞撞地穿过灌木丛的尖叫声，把人猿泰山直接带到了埃斯梅拉达躺着的地方，但他的兴趣中心并不是埃斯梅拉达，尽管他在她身上停下来，发现她没有受伤。

For a moment he scrutinized the ground below and the trees above, until the ape that was in him by virtue of training and environment, combined with the intelligence that was his by right of birth, told his wondrous woodcraft the whole story as plainly as though he had seen the thing happen with his own eyes.
他审视了一会儿下面的地面和上面的树木，直到他体内的那只猿猴凭借训练和环境，结合他与生俱来的智慧，清楚地讲述了他奇妙的木工技术的整个故事。他亲眼目睹了这件事的发生。

And then he was gone again into the swaying trees, following the high-flung spoor which no other human eye could have detected, much less translated.
然后他又走进了摇曳的树林，循着高高飘扬的足迹，其他人的眼睛无法察觉，更不用说翻译了。

At boughs’ ends, where the anthropoid swings from one tree to another, there is most to mark the trail, but least to point the direction of the quarry; for there the pressure is downward always, toward the small end of the branch, whether the ape be leaving or entering a tree. Nearer the center of the tree, where the signs of passage are fainter, the direction is plainly marked.
在树枝的末端，类人猿从一棵树荡到另一棵树的地方，有最多的痕迹来标记路径，但很少有指向采石场的方向；因为无论猩猩是离开还是进入树，压力总是向下的，朝向树枝的小端。越靠近树的中心，通过的迹象越微弱，方向被清楚地标记出来。

Here, on this branch, a caterpillar has been crushed by the fugitive’s great foot, and Tarzan knows instinctively where that same foot would touch in the next stride. Here he looks to find a tiny particle of the demolished larva, ofttimes not more than a speck of moisture.
在这里，在这根树枝上，一只毛毛虫被逃亡者的大脚踩碎了，泰山本能地知道这只脚在下一步中会接触到哪里。在这里，他寻找被摧毁的幼虫的微小颗粒，通常不超过一粒水分。

Again, a minute bit of bark has been upturned by the scraping hand, and the direction of the break indicates the direction of the passage. Or some great limb, or the stem of the tree itself has been brushed by the hairy body, and a tiny shred of hair tells him by the direction from which it is wedged beneath the bark that he is on the right trail.
再次，一小片树皮被刮手翻起，断裂的方向表明了通道的方向。或者某个巨大的树枝，或者树干本身被毛茸茸的身体刷过，一根细小的毛发从它楔入树皮下的方向告诉他，他走在正确的道路上。

Nor does he need to check his speed to catch these seemingly faint records of the fleeing beast.
他也不需要检查自己的速度，就能捕捉到这些看似微弱的逃跑野兽的记录。

To Tarzan they stand out boldly against all the myriad other scars and bruises and signs upon the leafy way. But strongest of all is the scent, for Tarzan is pursuing up the wind, and his trained nostrils are as sensitive as a hound’s.
对于泰山来说，它们勇敢地脱颖而出，与绿树成荫的道路上无数的伤痕、瘀伤和标志形成鲜明对比。但最强烈的是气味，因为泰山正在追风，他训练有素的鼻孔像猎犬一样敏感。

There are those who believe that the lower orders are specially endowed by nature with better olfactory nerves than man, but it is merely a matter of development.
有些人认为，低等生物天生具有比人类更好的嗅觉神经，但这只是一个发展问题。

Man’s survival does not hinge so greatly upon the perfection of his senses. His power to reason has relieved them of many of their duties, and so they have, to some extent, atrophied, as have the muscles which move the ears and scalp, merely from disuse.
人的生存并不很大程度上取决于他的感官的完善程度。他的推理能力使他们摆脱了许多职责，因此他们在某种程度上萎缩了，就像移动耳朵和头皮的肌肉一样，只是因为闲置而萎缩。

The muscles are there, about the ears and beneath the scalp, and so are the nerves which transmit sensations to the brain, but they are under-developed because they are not needed.
耳朵周围和头皮下方有肌肉，还有将感觉传递到大脑的神经，但它们尚未发育成熟，因为不需要它们。

Not so with Tarzan of the Apes. From early infancy his survival had depended upon acuteness of eyesight, hearing, smell, touch, and taste far more than upon the more slowly developed organ of reason.
《人猿泰山》的情况并非如此。从婴儿期起，他的生存就更多地依赖于视力、听觉、嗅觉、触觉和味觉的敏锐度，而不是发育缓慢的理性器官。

The least developed of all in Tarzan was the sense of taste, for he could eat luscious fruits, or raw flesh, long buried with almost equal appreciation; but in that he differed but slightly from more civilized epicures.
人猿泰山中最不发达的是味觉，因为他可以吃甘美的水果或生肉，而这些水果或生肉早已被埋藏了很长时间，几乎同样具有同样的欣赏能力。但在这一点上，他与更文明的享乐主义者略有不同。

Almost silently the ape-man sped on in the track of Terkoz and his prey, but the sound of his approach reached the ears of the fleeing beast and spurred it on to greater speed.
猿人几乎悄无声息地追随泰尔科兹和他的猎物的踪迹，但他接近的声音传到了逃跑的野兽的耳朵里，刺激它加快了速度。

Three miles were covered before Tarzan overtook them, and then Terkoz, seeing that further flight was futile, dropped to the ground in a small open glade, that he might turn and fight for his prize or be free to escape unhampered if he saw that the pursuer was more than a match for him.
走了三英里后，泰山追上了他们，泰尔科兹发现进一步的逃跑是徒劳的，就落在一块开阔的小空地上，这样他就可以转身为他的战利品而战，或者如果他看到泰山可以不受阻碍地自由逃脱。追击者比他更胜一筹。

He still grasped Jane in one great arm as Tarzan bounded like a leopard into the arena which nature had provided for this primeval-like battle.
当泰山像豹子一样跳进大自然为这场原始般的战斗提供的竞技场时，他仍然用一只大臂抓住简。

When Terkoz saw that it was Tarzan who pursued him, he jumped to the conclusion that this was Tarzan’s woman, since they were of the same kind—white and hairless—and so he rejoiced at this opportunity for double revenge upon his hated enemy.
当泰尔科兹看到追赶他的人是泰山时，他立刻断定这是泰山的女人，因为他们是同类——白皙无毛——因此他很高兴有这个机会向他的仇敌加倍报仇。

To Jane the strange apparition of this god-like man was as wine to sick nerves.
对简来说，这个神一般的男人的奇怪幻影就像酒一样刺激神经。

From the description which Clayton and her father and Mr. Philander had given her, she knew that it must be the same wonderful creature who had saved them, and she saw in him only a protector and a friend.
从克莱顿、她父亲和菲兰德先生给她的描述中，她知道一定是同一个奇妙的生物拯救了他们，而她在他身上只看到了一个保护者和一个朋友。

But as Terkoz pushed her roughly aside to meet Tarzan’s charge, and she saw the great proportions of the ape and the mighty muscles and the fierce fangs, her heart quailed. How could any vanquish such a mighty antagonist?
但当泰尔科兹粗鲁地把她推到一边去迎接泰山的冲锋时，她看到了猿猴巨大的体型、强大的肌肉和凶猛的尖牙，她的心颤抖了。怎样才能战胜如此强大的对手呢？

Like two charging bulls they came together, and like two wolves sought each other’s throat. Against the long canines of the ape was pitted the thin blade of the man’s knife.
他们像两只冲锋的公牛聚集在一起，又像两只狼互相争夺对方的喉咙。男人刀上的薄刀刃抵在猿猴长长的犬齿上。

Jane—her lithe, young form flattened against the trunk of a great tree, her hands tight pressed against her rising and falling bosom, and her eyes wide with mingled horror, fascination, fear, and admiration—watched the primordial ape battle with the primeval man for possession of a woman—for her.
简——她那轻盈、年轻的身躯趴在一棵大树的树干上，双手紧紧地按着起伏的胸膛，她的眼睛睁得大大的，里面夹杂着惊恐、着迷、恐惧和钦佩——看着原始猿猴与原始猿猴的战斗。男人为了占有一个女人——为了她。

As the great muscles of the man’s back and shoulders knotted beneath the tension of his efforts, and the huge biceps and forearm held at bay those mighty tusks, the veil of centuries of civilization and culture was swept from the blurred vision of the Baltimore girl.
当这个男人背部和肩膀的巨大肌肉在他的努力的紧张下打结，巨大的二头肌和前臂阻止那些强大的獠牙时，几个世纪文明和文化的面纱从巴尔的摩女孩模糊的视野中消失了。

When the long knife drank deep a dozen times of Terkoz’ heart’s blood, and the great carcass rolled lifeless upon the ground, it was a primeval woman who sprang forward with outstretched arms toward the primeval man who had fought for her and won her.
当长刀深深地吸干了泰尔科兹心脏数十倍的血液，巨大的尸体在地上毫无生气地滚滚时，那是一位原始女子，张开双臂，扑向了为她而战并赢得了她的原始男子。

And Tarzan?
还有泰山？

He did what no red-blooded man needs lessons in doing. He took his woman in his arms and smothered her upturned, panting lips with kisses.
他做了任何一个热血男人都不需要教训的事情。他把他的女人抱在怀里，用吻覆盖住她仰起的、气喘吁吁的嘴唇。

For a moment Jane lay there with half-closed eyes. For a moment—the first in her young life—she knew the meaning of love.
有一会儿，简半闭着眼睛躺在那里。那一刻——她年轻生命中的第一次——她明白了爱的意义。

But as suddenly as the veil had been withdrawn it dropped again, and an outraged conscience suffused her face with its scarlet mantle, and a mortified woman thrust Tarzan of the Apes from her and buried her face in her hands.
但就像面纱突然被拉开一样，它又落了下来，一种愤怒的良心用猩红色的斗篷覆盖了她的脸，一个羞愧的女人把人猿泰山从她身上推开，把脸埋在手里。

Tarzan had been surprised when he had found the girl he had learned to love after a vague and abstract manner a willing prisoner in his arms. Now he was surprised that she repulsed him.
当泰山发现他以一种模糊而抽象的方式爱上的女孩自愿被囚禁在他怀里时，他感到很惊讶。现在他很惊讶她拒绝了他。

He came close to her once more and took hold of her arm. She turned upon him like a tigress, striking his great breast with her tiny hands.
他再次靠近她，握住了她的手臂。她像一只母老虎一样转向他，用她的小手敲打他的大胸。

Tarzan could not understand it.
泰山无法理解。

A moment ago and it had been his intention to hasten Jane back to her people, but that little moment was lost now in the dim and distant past of things which were but can never be again, and with it the good intentions had gone to join the impossible.
刚才，他还打算催促简回到她的人民身边，但那一刻现在已经消失在昏暗而遥远的过去，那些曾经但永远不会再发生的事情，随之而来的良好意愿也消失了不可能的事。

Since then Tarzan of the Apes had felt a warm, lithe form close pressed to his. Hot, sweet breath against his cheek and mouth had fanned a new flame to life within his breast, and perfect lips had clung to his in burning kisses that had seared a deep brand into his soul—a brand which marked a new Tarzan.
从那时起，人猿泰山就感觉到有一个温暖、柔软的躯体紧紧地贴在他身上。灼热、甜美的呼吸喷在他的脸颊和嘴上，在他的胸膛里煽起了新的火焰，完美的嘴唇在灼热的吻中紧贴着他，在他的灵魂中烙下了深深的烙印——这个烙印标志着新的泰山。

Again he laid his hand upon her arm. Again she repulsed him. And then Tarzan of the Apes did just what his first ancestor would have done.
他再次把手放在她的手臂上。她再次拒绝了他。然后人猿泰山做了他的第一个祖先会做的事情。

He took his woman in his arms and carried her into the jungle.
他把他的女人抱在怀里，带她走进了丛林。

Early the following morning the four within the little cabin by the beach were awakened by the booming of a cannon. Clayton was the first to rush out, and there, beyond the harbor’s mouth, he saw two vessels lying at anchor.
第二天一早，海滩小屋里的四个人被一声炮响吵醒。克莱顿第一个冲了出去，在港口的另一边，他看到两艘船停泊在岸边。

One was the Arrow and the other a small French cruiser. The sides of the latter were crowded with men gazing shoreward, and it was evident to Clayton, as to the others who had now joined him, that the gun which they had heard had been fired to attract their attention if they still remained at the cabin.
一艘是箭号，另一艘是法国小型巡洋舰。后者的两侧挤满了凝视海岸的人，克莱顿和现在加入他的其他人都清楚，他们听到的枪响是为了吸引他们的注意力，如果他们还留在船舱里的话。

Both vessels lay at a considerable distance from shore, and it was doubtful if their glasses would locate the waving hats of the little party far in between the harbor’s points.
两艘船都距离海岸相当远，他们的眼镜是否能将一小群人挥舞的帽子定位在港口点之间很远的地方，这是值得怀疑的。

Esmeralda had removed her red apron and was waving it frantically above her head; but Clayton, still fearing that even this might not be seen, hurried off toward the northern point where lay his signal pyre ready for the match.
埃斯梅拉达脱下了红色围裙，疯狂地在头顶上挥舞着。但克莱顿仍然担心连这一点都可能不会被看到，于是匆匆赶往北边，在那里埋下了准备比赛的信号柴堆。

It seemed an age to him, as to those who waited breathlessly behind, ere he reached the great pile of dry branches and underbrush.
对他来说，对于那些在后面气喘吁吁地等待的人来说，他似乎已经过了一个世纪，才到达那一大堆干树枝和灌木丛。

As he broke from the dense wood and came in sight of the vessels again, he was filled with consternation to see that the Arrow was making sail and that the cruiser was already under way.
当他从茂密的树林中挣脱出来，再次看到那些船只时，他惊讶地发现箭号正在起航，而巡洋舰已经在航行。

Quickly lighting the pyre in a dozen places, he hurried to the extreme point of the promontory, where he stripped off his shirt, and, tying it to a fallen branch, stood waving it back and forth above him.
他迅速点燃了十几个地方的柴堆，然后匆匆跑到海角的尽头，脱掉衬衫，把它绑在一根倒下的树枝上，站在那里来回挥舞着。

But still the vessels continued to stand out; and he had given up all hope, when the great column of smoke, rising above the forest in one dense vertical shaft, attracted the attention of a lookout aboard the cruiser, and instantly a dozen glasses were leveled on the beach.
但这些船只仍然脱颖而出。当他已经放弃了所有的希望时，巨大的烟柱在森林上方以一根密集的垂直烟囱升起，引起了巡洋舰上瞭望员的注意，立即有十几个玻璃杯在海滩上被夷为平地。

Presently Clayton saw the two ships come about again; and while the Arrow lay drifting quietly on the ocean, the cruiser steamed slowly back toward shore.
不久，克莱顿看到两艘船又来了。当箭号静静地在海面上漂流时，巡洋舰慢慢地驶回海岸。

At some distance away she stopped, and a boat was lowered and dispatched toward the beach.
她在远处停下来，放下一艘船，朝海滩驶去。

As it was drawn up a young officer stepped out.
当它起草完毕时，一名年轻军官走了出来。

‘Monsieur Clayton, I presume?’ he asked.
“我想是克莱顿先生吧？”他问道。

‘Thank God, you have come!’ was Clayton’s reply. ‘And it may be that it is not too late even now.’
“感谢上帝，你来了！”克莱顿回答道。 “也许现在还不算太晚。”

‘What do you mean, Monsieur?’ asked the officer.
“先生，您这是什么意思？”军官问道。

Clayton told of the abduction of Jane Porter and the need of armed men to aid in the search for her.
克莱顿讲述了简·波特被绑架的事件，以及需要武装人员协助寻找她的故事。

‘MON DIEU!’ exclaimed the officer, sadly. ‘Yesterday and it would not have been too late. Today and it may be better that the poor lady were never found. It is horrible, Monsieur. It is too horrible.’
“我的天！”军官悲伤地喊道。 ‘昨天，还不算太晚。今天，最好还是永远找不到这位可怜的女士。太可怕了，先生。这太可怕了。

Other boats had now put off from the cruiser, and Clayton, having pointed out the harbor’s entrance to the officer, entered the boat with him and its nose was turned toward the little landlocked bay, into which the other craft followed.
其他船只现在已经离开了巡洋舰，克莱顿向军官指出了港口的入口，与他一起进入了船，船头转向了小内陆海湾，其他船只也随之进入。

Soon the entire party had landed where stood Professor Porter, Mr. Philander and the weeping Esmeralda.
很快，一行人就降落在波特教授、菲兰德先生和哭泣的埃斯梅拉达所在的地方。

Among the officers in the last boats to put off from the cruiser was the commander of the vessel; and when he had heard the story of Jane’s abduction, he generously called for volunteers to accompany Professor Porter and Clayton in their search.
最后离开巡洋舰的艇上的军官中有这艘船的指挥官。当他听说简被绑架的故事后，他慷慨地召集志愿者陪伴波特教授和克莱顿进行搜寻。

Not an officer or a man was there of those brave and sympathetic Frenchmen who did not quickly beg leave to be one of the expedition.
那些勇敢而富有同情心的法国人没有一个军官或男人不立即请求加入探险队。

The commander selected twenty men and two officers, Lieutenant D’Arnot and Lieutenant Charpentier. A boat was dispatched to the cruiser for provisions, ammunition, and carbines; the men were already armed with revolvers.
指挥官挑选了二十名士兵和两名军官，达诺中尉和卡彭蒂埃中尉。一艘船被派往巡洋舰处运送补给、弹药和卡宾枪；这些人已经配备了左轮手枪。

Then, to Clayton’s inquiries as to how they had happened to anchor off shore and fire a signal gun, the commander, Captain Dufranne, explained that a month before they had sighted the Arrow bearing southwest under considerable canvas, and that when they had signaled her to come about she had but crowded on more sail.
然后，当克莱顿询问他们如何碰巧在离岸抛锚并发射信号枪时，指挥官杜弗兰上尉解释说，一个月前，他们在相当大的帆布下看到了箭号向西南航行，当他们向她发出信号时为了实现这一目标，她不得不加紧更多的帆。

They had kept her hull-up until sunset, firing several shots after her, but the next morning she was nowhere to be seen. They had then continued to cruise up and down the coast for several weeks, and had about forgotten the incident of the recent chase, when, early one morning a few days before the lookout had described a vessel laboring in the trough of a heavy sea and evidently entirely out of control.
他们一直保留着她的船体直到日落，并在她身后开了几枪，但第二天早上却不见她的踪影。然后，他们继续在海岸上来回航行了几个星期，几乎忘记了最近的追逐事件，当时，几天前的一天清晨，瞭望员描述了一艘船在波涛汹涌的海槽中劳作，显然完全失控了。

As they steamed nearer to the derelict they were surprised to note that it was the same vessel that had run from them a few weeks earlier. Her forestaysail and mizzen spanker were set as though an effort had been made to hold her head up into the wind, but the sheets had parted, and the sails were tearing to ribbons in the half gale of wind.
当他们驶近被遗弃的船只时，他们惊讶地发现这正是几周前逃离他们的那艘船。她的前桅帆和后桅帆都已挂好，仿佛是在努力将她的头迎风抬起，但帆布已经分开，帆在半强风中撕成丝带。

In the high sea that was running it was a difficult and dangerous task to attempt to put a prize crew aboard her; and as no signs of life had been seen above deck, it was decided to stand by until the wind and sea abated; but just then a figure was seen clinging to the rail and feebly waving a mute signal of despair toward them.
在汹涌的公海中，试图将战利品船员送上她是一项艰巨而危险的任务。由于甲板上没有看到任何生命迹象，因此决定待命，直到风和海势减弱。但就在这时，有人看见一个人影紧紧抓住栏杆，向他们无力地挥舞着无声的绝望信号。

Immediately a boat’s crew was ordered out and an attempt was successfully made to board the Arrow.
立即命令船员离开，并成功登上“箭”号。

The sight that met the Frenchmen’s eyes as they clambered over the ship’s side was appalling.
当法国人爬上船舷时，他们看到的景象令人震惊。

A dozen dead and dying men rolled hither and thither upon the pitching deck, the living intermingled with the dead. Two of the corpses appeared to have been partially devoured as though by wolves.
十几个死去的和垂死的人在投掷甲板上滚来滚去，生者与死者混在一起。其中两具尸体似乎被狼群吞噬了一部分。

The prize crew soon had the vessel under proper sail once more and the living members of the ill-starred company carried below to their hammocks.
获奖船员很快就让船再次正常航行，而这支倒霉连队的活着的成员则被带到了下面的吊床上。

The dead were wrapped in tarpaulins and lashed on deck to be identified by their comrades before being consigned to the deep.
死者被用防水布包裹起来，绑在甲板上，等待战友辨认，然后被送往深海。

None of the living was conscious when the Frenchmen reached the Arrow’s deck. Even the poor devil who had waved the single despairing signal of distress had lapsed into unconsciousness before he had learned whether it had availed or not.
当法国人到达箭号的甲板时，活着的人都没有意识。就连那个挥舞着绝望求救信号的可怜鬼，在得知这招有用与否之前，也已经陷入了昏迷。

It did not take the French officer long to learn what had caused the terrible condition aboard; for when water and brandy were sought to restore the men, it was found that there was none, nor even food of any description.
法国军官没过多久就知道是什么原因造成了船上的可怕状况。因为当人们寻找水和白兰地来帮助这些人恢复健康时，却发现根本没有水和白兰地，甚至没有任何食物。

He immediately signalled to the cruiser to send water, medicine, and provisions, and another boat made the perilous trip to the Arrow.
他立即向巡洋舰发出信号，送来水、药品和给养，另一艘船则危险地前往箭号。

When restoratives had been applied several of the men regained consciousness, and then the whole story was told. That part of it we know up to the sailing of the Arrow after the murder of Snipes, and the burial of his body above the treasure chest.
当使用恢复剂后，一些人恢复了知觉，然后整个故事就被讲述了。我们知道这部分内容直到斯奈普斯被谋杀后箭号的航行，以及他的尸体被埋葬在宝箱上方。

It seems that the pursuit by the cruiser had so terrorized the mutineers that they had continued out across the Atlantic for several days after losing her; but on discovering the meager supply of water and provisions aboard, they had turned back toward the east.
巡洋舰的追击似乎让叛变者感到如此恐惧，以至于他们在失去她后继续横渡大西洋几天。但当他们发现船上的水和食物供应不足时，他们又转向东方。

With no one on board who understood navigation, discussions soon arose as to their whereabouts; and as three days’ sailing to the east did not raise land, they bore off to the north, fearing that the high north winds that had prevailed had driven them south of the southern extremity of Africa.
由于船上没有人懂导航，很快就发生了关于他们下落的讨论。由于向东航行三天并没有出现陆地，他们向北航行，担心盛行的北风将他们吹到了非洲最南端。

They kept on a north-northeasterly course for two days, when they were overtaken by a calm which lasted for nearly a week. Their water was gone, and in another day they would be without food.
他们继续沿东北偏北方向飞行了两天，随后陷入了持续近一周的平静之中。他们的水没了，再过一天他们就会没有食物。

Conditions changed rapidly from bad to worse. One man went mad and leaped overboard. Soon another opened his veins and drank his own blood.
情况迅速变得越来越糟。一名男子发疯了，跳下船。很快，另一个人张开了血管，喝了自己的血。

When he died they threw him overboard also, though there were those among them who wanted to keep the corpse on board. Hunger was changing them from human beasts to wild beasts.
当他死后，他们也把他扔下了船，尽管其中有人想把他的尸体留在船上。饥饿正在将他们从人兽变成野兽。

Two days before they had been picked up by the cruiser they had become too weak to handle the vessel, and that same day three men died. On the following morning it was seen that one of the corpses had been partially devoured.
在他们被巡洋舰接走的前两天，他们已经变得太虚弱，无法操纵这艘船，同一天，三人死亡。第二天早上，人们看到其中一具尸体已被部分吞噬。

All that day the men lay glaring at each other like beasts of prey, and the following morning two of the corpses lay almost entirely stripped of flesh.
一整天，这些人都像猛兽一样互相怒目而视，第二天早上，其中两具尸体几乎被剥光了肉。

The men were but little stronger for their ghoulish repast, for the want of water was by far the greatest agony with which they had to contend. And then the cruiser had come.
这些人在吃完这顿令人毛骨悚然的食物后，并没有多少力气，因为缺水是他们迄今为止面临的最大痛苦。然后巡洋舰来了。

When those who could had recovered, the entire story had been told to the French commander; but the men were too ignorant to be able to tell him at just what point on the coast the professor and his party had been marooned, so the cruiser had steamed slowly along within sight of land, firing occasional signal guns and scanning every inch of the beach with glasses.
当那些能够康复的人恢复过来时，整个故事都被告诉了法国指挥官。但这些人太无知了，无法告诉他教授和他的一行人被困在海岸的哪个位置，因此巡洋舰在陆地的视线范围内缓慢航行，偶尔发射信号枪并扫描每一寸土地。戴着眼镜的海滩。

They had anchored by night so as not to neglect a particle of the shore line, and it had happened that the preceding night had brought them off the very beach where lay the little camp they sought.
他们在夜间抛锚，以免忽视海岸线的一小部分，碰巧前一天晚上他们就离开了他们寻找的小营地所在的海滩。

The signal guns of the afternoon before had not been heard by those on shore, it was presumed, because they had doubtless been in the thick of the jungle searching for Jane Porter, where the noise of their own crashing through the underbrush would have drowned the report of a far distant gun.
据推测，前一天下午的信号枪没有被岸上的人听到，因为他们无疑是在丛林深处寻找简·波特，在那里他们自己穿过灌木丛的声音会淹没他们的声音。远处有枪声的报告。

By the time the two parties had narrated their several adventures, the cruiser’s boat had returned with supplies and arms for the expedition.
当两方讲述完他们的几次冒险经历时，巡洋舰的船已经带着探险所需的补给和武器回来了。

Within a few minutes the little body of sailors and the two French officers, together with Professor Porter and Clayton, set off upon their hopeless and ill-fated quest into the untracked jungle.
几分钟之内，一小群水手和两名法国军官，以及波特教授和克莱顿，开始了他们对无人踪迹的丛林的绝望而不幸的探索。

Chapter 20
第20章


Heredity
遗传

When Jane realized that she was being borne away a captive by the strange forest creature who had rescued her from the clutches of the ape she struggled desperately to escape, but the strong arms that held her as easily as though she had been but a day-old babe only pressed a little more tightly.
当简意识到她正被那把她从猿猴手中解救出来的奇怪森林生物抓走时，她拼命挣扎着想要逃脱，但那双强有力的手臂却轻松地抱住了她，就好像她刚刚度过了一天一样——老宝贝只是压得更紧了一些。

So presently she gave up the futile effort and lay quietly, looking through half-closed lids at the faces of the man who strode easily through the tangled undergrowth with her.
于是，她很快就放弃了徒劳的努力，静静地躺着，透过​​半合的眼睑，看着那个和她一起轻松地大步穿过纠结的灌木丛的男人的脸。

The face above her was one of extraordinary beauty.
她上方的脸庞是一张异常美丽的脸。

A perfect type of the strongly masculine, unmarred by dissipation, or brutal or degrading passions. For, though Tarzan of the Apes was a killer of men and of beasts, he killed as the hunter kills, dispassionately, except on those rare occasions when he had killed for hate—though not the brooding, malevolent hate which marks the features of its own with hideous lines.
具有强烈阳刚之气的完美类型，不受放荡、野蛮或有辱人格的激情的损害。因为，尽管人猿泰山是人类和野兽的杀手，他像猎人一样冷静地杀人，除了极少数的情况下，他是因为仇恨而杀人——尽管不是那种深沉的、恶毒的仇恨，这是其特征的特征。拥有可怕的线条。

When Tarzan killed he more often smiled than scowled, and smiles are the foundation of beauty.
当泰山杀人时，他更多的是微笑而不是皱眉，微笑是美丽的基础。

One thing the girl had noticed particularly when she had seen Tarzan rushing upon Terkoz—the vivid scarlet band upon his forehead, from above the left eye to the scalp; but now as she scanned his features she noticed that it was gone, and only a thin white line marked the spot where it had been.
当女孩看到泰山冲向特尔科兹时，她特别注意到一件事——他额头上从左眼上方到头皮上有一条鲜艳的猩红色带子；但现在，当她扫视他的五官时，她发现它已经消失了，只有一条细细的白线标出了它原来所在的位置。

As she lay more quietly in his arms Tarzan slightly relaxed his grip upon her.
当她更加安静地躺在他怀里时，泰山稍微放松了对她的抓握。

Once he looked down into her eyes and smiled, and the girl had to close her own to shut out the vision of that handsome, winning face.
有一次，他低头看着她的眼睛，微笑着，女孩不得不闭上自己的眼睛，以遮挡那张英俊、迷人的脸庞。

Presently Tarzan took to the trees, and Jane, wondering that she felt no fear, began to realize that in many respects she had never felt more secure in her whole life than now as she lay in the arms of this strong, wild creature, being borne, God alone knew where or to what fate, deeper and deeper into the savage fastness of the untamed forest.
不久，人猿泰山来到了树林里，简奇怪自己并没有感到恐惧，她开始意识到，在许多方面，当她躺在这个强大而狂野的生物的怀抱中时，她一生中从未感到比现在更安全。出生后，只有上帝知道在哪里或走向什么命运，越来越深入未开垦的森林的野蛮堡垒。

When, with closed eyes, she commenced to speculate upon the future, and terrifying fears were conjured by a vivid imagination, she had but to raise her lids and look upon that noble face so close to hers to dissipate the last remnant of apprehension.
当她闭上眼睛开始推测未来，生动的想象唤起可怕的恐惧时，她只需抬起眼睑，看着那张离她那么近的高贵脸庞，就可以驱散最后一丝恐惧。

No, he could never harm her; of that she was convinced when she translated the fine features and the frank, brave eyes above her into the chivalry which they proclaimed.
不，他永远不能伤害她；他不能伤害她。当她把她美丽的容貌和头顶上坦率、勇敢的眼睛转化为他们所宣扬的骑士精神时，她确信了这一点。

On and on they went through what seemed to Jane a solid mass of verdure, yet ever there appeared to open before this forest god a passage, as by magic, which closed behind them as they passed.
他们一路前行，穿过了简看来是一大片郁郁葱葱的地方，然而，在这位森林之神面前，似乎突然出现了一条通道，就像魔法一样，当他们经过时，这条通道在他们身后关闭了。

Scarce a branch scraped against her, yet above and below, before and behind, the view presented naught but a solid mass of inextricably interwoven branches and creepers.
几乎没有一根树枝刮过她，但上面和下面，前面和后面，所看到的只是一堆密不可分的树枝和攀缘植物。

As Tarzan moved steadily onward his mind was occupied with many strange and new thoughts. Here was a problem the like of which he had never encountered, and he felt rather than reasoned that he must meet it as a man and not as an ape.
当泰山稳步前行时，他的脑海里充满了许多奇怪的新想法。这是一个他从未遇到过的问题，他感觉而不是推理，他必须作为一个人而不是作为一只猿来面对这个问题。

The free movement through the middle terrace, which was the route he had followed for the most part, had helped to cool the ardor of the first fierce passion of his new found love.
穿过中间露台的自由活动，这是他大部分时间所遵循的路线，有助于冷却他新发现的爱情的最初强烈激情的热情。

Now he discovered himself speculating upon the fate which would have fallen to the girl had he not rescued her from Terkoz.
现在他发现自己在猜测，如果他没有从泰尔科兹手中救出这个女孩，她将会面临怎样的命运。

He knew why the ape had not killed her, and he commenced to compare his intentions with those of Terkoz.
他知道为什么猿猴没有杀死她，他开始将自己的意图与泰尔科兹的意图进行比较。

True, it was the order of the jungle for the male to take his mate by force; but could Tarzan be guided by the laws of the beasts? Was not Tarzan a Man? But what did men do? He was puzzled; for he did not know.
诚然，丛林里的秩序是雄性用武力夺走他的配偶。但泰山能遵循野兽法则吗？泰山不是人吗？但男人做了什么？他很困惑；因为他不知道。

He wished that he might ask the girl, and then it came to him that she had already answered him in the futile struggle she had made to escape and to repulse him.
他希望他可以问那个女孩，然后他想到，在她为逃跑和排斥他所做的徒劳的挣扎中，她已经回答了他。

But now they had come to their destination, and Tarzan of the Apes with Jane in his strong arms, swung lightly to the turf of the arena where the great apes held their councils and danced the wild orgy of the Dum-Dum.
但现在他们已经到达目的地了，人猿泰山强有力的手臂中抱着简，轻轻地荡到了竞技场的草坪上，巨猿在那里举行会议，跳着狂野的达姆舞。

Though they had come many miles, it was still but midafternoon, and the amphitheater was bathed in the half light which filtered through the maze of encircling foliage.
尽管他们已经走了很多英里，但现在还只是下午三点左右，圆形剧场沐浴在透过迷宫般的树叶透过的微弱光线中。

The green turf looked soft and cool and inviting. The myriad noises of the jungle seemed far distant and hushed to a mere echo of blurred sounds, rising and falling like the surf upon a remote shore.
绿色的草坪看起来柔软、凉爽、诱人。丛林里的无数噪音似乎很遥远，安静得只剩下模糊的声音的回声，像遥远海岸上的海浪一样起伏。

A feeling of dreamy peacefulness stole over Jane as she sank down upon the grass where Tarzan had placed her, and as she looked up at his great figure towering above her, there was added a strange sense of perfect security.
当简倒在泰山放置她的草地上时，一种梦幻般的平静感笼罩着她，当她抬头看着他高耸在她上方的巨大身影时，又增加了一种奇怪的完美安全感。

As she watched him from beneath half-closed lids, Tarzan crossed the little circular clearing toward the trees upon the further side. She noted the graceful majesty of his carriage, the perfect symmetry of his magnificent figure and the poise of his well-shaped head upon his broad shoulders.
当她从半合的眼睑下看着他时，泰山穿过那片圆形的小空地，朝另一边的树林走去。她注意到他优雅威严的举止，他宏伟身材的完美对称，以及他宽阔肩膀上形状优美的头部的泰然自若。

What a perfect creature! There could be naught of cruelty or baseness beneath that godlike exterior. Never, she thought had such a man strode the earth since God created the first in his own image.
多么完美的生物啊！在这神圣的外表下不可能有任何残忍或卑鄙的东西。她想，自从上帝按照自己的形象创造了第一个人类以来，地球上还从来没有出现过这样的人。

With a bound Tarzan sprang into the trees and disappeared. Jane wondered where he had gone. Had he left her there to her fate in the lonely jungle?
泰山被束缚，跳进树林里消失了。简想知道他去了哪里。他是否把她留在了孤独的丛林里，听天由命？

She glanced nervously about. Every vine and bush seemed but the lurking-place of some huge and horrible beast waiting to bury gleaming fangs into her soft flesh. Every sound she magnified into the stealthy creeping of a sinuous and malignant body.
她紧张地环顾四周。每一片藤蔓和灌木丛似乎都潜伏着某种巨大而可怕的野兽，等待着将闪闪发光的尖牙埋入她柔软的肉体中。她把每一个声音都放大成一个蜿蜒而恶毒的身体在悄悄蠕动。

How different now that he had left her!
现在他离开了她，情况多么不同啊！

For a few minutes that seemed hours to the frightened girl, she sat with tense nerves waiting for the spring of the crouching thing that was to end her misery of apprehension.
几分钟的时间对于这个受惊的女孩来说似乎是几个小时，她紧张地坐着，等待着那个蹲伏的东西的弹簧，结束她忧虑的痛苦。

She almost prayed for the cruel teeth that would give her unconsciousness and surcease from the agony of fear.
她几乎在祈祷残酷的牙齿能够让她失去知觉并摆脱恐惧的痛苦。

She heard a sudden, slight sound behind her. With a cry she sprang to her feet and turned to face her end.
她听到身后突然传来轻微的声音。她大叫一声，跳了起来，转身面对自己的结局。

There stood Tarzan, his arms filled with ripe and luscious fruit.
泰山站在那里，他的怀里充满了成熟甘美的水果。

Jane reeled and would have fallen, had not Tarzan, dropping his burden, caught her in his arms. She did not lose consciousness, but she clung tightly to him, shuddering and trembling like a frightened deer.
如果不是泰山放下包袱，把简抱在怀里，她就会摇摇欲坠，差点摔倒。她并没有失去知觉，只是紧紧地抱住他，浑身颤抖得像一只受惊的小鹿。

Tarzan of the Apes stroked her soft hair and tried to comfort and quiet her as Kala had him, when, as a little ape, he had been frightened by Sabor, the lioness, or Histah, the snake.
人猿泰山抚摸着她柔软的头发，试图安抚她并让她安静下来，就像卡拉抚摸他一样，当时他还是一只小猿，被母狮萨博尔或蛇希斯塔吓坏了。

Once he pressed his lips lightly upon her forehead, and she did not move, but closed her eyes and sighed.
有一次他的嘴唇轻轻印在她的额头上，她没有动，只是闭上眼睛叹了口气。

She could not analyze her feelings, nor did she wish to attempt it. She was satisfied to feel the safety of those strong arms, and to leave her future to fate; for the last few hours had taught her to trust this strange wild creature of the forest as she would have trusted but few of the men of her acquaintance.
她无法分析自己的感受，也不想尝试。她很满足地感受到那双强有力的手臂的安全，并将她的未来交给命运；在过去的几个小时里，她学会了信任森林里这个奇怪的野生动物，就像她很少信任她所认识的男人一样。

As she thought of the strangeness of it, there commenced to dawn upon her the realization that she had, possibly, learned something else which she had never really known before—love. She wondered and then she smiled.
当她想到这件事的奇怪之处时，她开始意识到她可能学到了一些她以前从未真正了解过的东西——爱。她想知道然后笑了。

And still smiling, she pushed Tarzan gently away; and looking at him with a half-smiling, half-quizzical expression that made her face wholly entrancing, she pointed to the fruit upon the ground, and seated herself upon the edge of the earthen drum of the anthropoids, for hunger was asserting itself.
她仍然微笑着，轻轻地把泰山推开。她用一种半微笑半疑惑的表情看着他，这使她的脸完全着迷，她指着地上的水果，然后坐在类人猿的土鼓边缘，因为饥饿正在显现。

Tarzan quickly gathered up the fruit, and, bringing it, laid it at her feet; and then he, too, sat upon the drum beside her, and with his knife opened and prepared the various fruits for her meal.
泰山迅速捡起水果，放在她脚边。然后他也坐在她旁边的鼓上，用刀打开，为她准备了各种水果。

Together and in silence they ate, occasionally stealing sly glances at one another, until finally Jane broke into a merry laugh in which Tarzan joined.
他们一起默默地吃着，偶尔偷偷地看对方一眼，直到最后简发出一阵快乐的笑声，泰山也跟着笑起来。

‘I wish you spoke English,’ said the girl.
“我希望你会说英语，”女孩说。

Tarzan shook his head, and an expression of wistful and pathetic longing sobered his laughing eyes.
泰山摇了摇头，脸上带着渴望和可悲的渴望，让他那双笑眯眯的眼睛变得清醒。

Then Jane tried speaking to him in French, and then in German; but she had to laugh at her own blundering attempt at the latter tongue.
然后简尝试用法语和他说话，然后用德语；但她不得不嘲笑自己笨拙地尝试后一种语言。

‘Anyway,’ she said to him in English, ‘you understand my German as well as they did in Berlin.’
“不管怎样，”她用英语对他说，“你懂我的德语，就像柏林的人一样。”

Tarzan had long since reached a decision as to what his future procedure should be. He had had time to recollect all that he had read of the ways of men and women in the books at the cabin. He would act as he imagined the men in the books would have acted were they in his place.
泰山早就决定了他未来的程序应该是什么。他有时间回忆起他在小屋里读过的所有关于男人和女人的生活方式的书。他会按照他想象的那样行事，如果书中的人处于他的位置，他们会采取行动。

Again he rose and went into the trees, but first he tried to explain by means of signs that he would return shortly, and he did so well that Jane understood and was not afraid when he had gone.
他再次站起来，走进树林，但首先他试图用手势解释他很快就会回来，他做得很好，简明白了，当他离开时，他并不害怕。

Only a feeling of loneliness came over her and she watched the point where he had disappeared, with longing eyes, awaiting his return. As before, she was appraised of his presence by a soft sound behind her, and turned to see him coming across the turf with a great armful of branches.
她只觉得孤独，她望着他消失的地方，用渴望的目光等待着他的归来。和之前一样，她听到身后传来一阵轻柔的声音，就知道了他的存在，然后转过身来，看到他抱着一大把树枝穿过草坪。

Then he went back again into the jungle and in a few minutes reappeared with a quantity of soft grasses and ferns.
然后他又回到丛林，几分钟后带着大量软草和蕨类植物再次出现。

Two more trips he made until he had quite a pile of material at hand.
他又去了两次，直到手头有了一大堆材料。

Then he spread the ferns and grasses upon the ground in a soft flat bed, and above it leaned many branches together so that they met a few feet over its center. Upon these he spread layers of huge leaves of the great elephant’s ear, and with more branches and more leaves he closed one end of the little shelter he had built.
然后他把蕨类植物和草铺在地上，铺在柔软的平床上，上面把许多树枝倾斜在一起，这样它们就在离它中心几英尺的地方相遇了。在这些上面，他铺上了一层巨大的大象耳朵的巨大叶子，并用更多的树枝和更多的叶子封闭了他建造的小庇护所的一端。

Then they sat down together again upon the edge of the drum and tried to talk by signs.
然后他们又一起坐在鼓边，试图用手势交谈。

The magnificent diamond locket which hung about Tarzan’s neck, had been a source of much wonderment to Jane. She pointed to it now, and Tarzan removed it and handed the pretty bauble to her.
泰山脖子上挂着的那枚华丽的钻石挂坠盒一直让简惊叹不已。她现在指着它，泰山把它取下来，把漂亮的小玩意递给她。

She saw that it was the work of a skilled artisan and that the diamonds were of great brilliancy and superbly set, but the cutting of them denoted that they were of a former day. She noticed too that the locket opened, and, pressing the hidden clasp, she saw the two halves spring apart to reveal in either section an ivory miniature.
她看到这是一位熟练工匠的作品，钻石光彩夺目，镶嵌精美，但从切工来看，它们是以前的东西。她还注意到挂坠盒打开了，按下隐藏的扣子，她看到两半弹开，在两部分中露出一个象牙微型模型。

One was of a beautiful woman and the other might have been a likeness of the man who sat beside her, except for a subtle difference of expression that was scarcely definable.
一张是一位美丽的女人，另一张可能是坐在她旁边的男人的肖像，除了表情上有细微的差异，几乎无法定义。

She looked up at Tarzan to find him leaning toward her gazing on the miniatures with an expression of astonishment. He reached out his hand for the locket and took it away from her, examining the likenesses within with unmistakable signs of surprise and new interest. His manner clearly denoted that he had never before seen them, nor imagined that the locket opened.
她抬头看着泰山，发现他正靠向她，一脸惊讶地看着微缩模型。他伸出手去拿挂坠盒，把它从她手中拿走，检查里面的相似之处，明显地表现出惊讶和新的兴趣。他的态度显然表明他以前从未见过它们，也没有想象过挂坠盒会打开。

This fact caused Jane to indulge in further speculation, and it taxed her imagination to picture how this beautiful ornament came into the possession of a wild and savage creature of the unexplored jungles of Africa.
这一事实让简陷入了进一步的猜测，她的想象力非常耗费想象力，无法想象这件美丽的装饰品是如何落入非洲未开发丛林中的野生动物手中的。

Still more wonderful was how it contained the likeness of one who might be a brother, or, more likely, the father of this woodland demi-god who was even ignorant of the fact that the locket opened.
更奇妙的是，它包含着一个可能是兄弟的肖像，或者更可能是这位林地半神的父亲，而他甚至不知道挂坠盒打开了。

Tarzan was still gazing with fixity at the two faces. Presently he removed the quiver from his shoulder, and emptying the arrows upon the ground reached into the bottom of the bag-like receptacle and drew forth a flat object wrapped in many soft leaves and tied with bits of long grass.
泰山仍然目不转睛地盯着那两张脸。不久，他从肩上取下箭袋，把地上的箭清空，把手伸进袋状容器的底部，取出一个扁平的物体，包裹着许多柔软的叶子，上面绑着一些长草。

Carefully he unwrapped it, removing layer after layer of leaves until at length he held a photograph in his hand.
他小心翼翼地打开包装，一层又一层地除去叶子，直到手里终于拿着一张照片。

Pointing to the miniature of the man within the locket he handed the photograph to Jane, holding the open locket beside it.
他指着挂坠盒里那个男人的微缩模型，把照片递给简，把打开的挂坠盒放在旁边。

The photograph only served to puzzle the girl still more, for it was evidently another likeness of the same man whose picture rested in the locket beside that of the beautiful young woman.
这张照片只会让女孩更加困惑，因为这显然是同一个男人的另一张肖像，他的照片放在挂坠盒里，旁边是那个美丽的年轻女子的照片。

Tarzan was looking at her with an expression of puzzled bewilderment in his eyes as she glanced up at him. He seemed to be framing a question with his lips.
当她抬头看着他时，泰山用一种困惑的表情看着她。他似乎在用嘴唇提出问题。

The girl pointed to the photograph and then to the miniature and then to him, as though to indicate that she thought the likenesses were of him, but he only shook his head, and then shrugging his great shoulders, he took the photograph from her and having carefully rewrapped it, placed it again in the bottom of his quiver.
女孩指着照片，然后指着微缩模型，然后指着他，好像是在表明她认为这些肖像是他的，但他只是摇了摇头，然后耸了耸肩，从她手中接过照片，然后小心翼翼地将它重新包裹起来，再次将其放入箭袋底部。

For a few moments he sat in silence, his eyes bent upon the ground, while Jane held the little locket in her hand, turning it over and over in an endeavor to find some further clue that might lead to the identity of its original owner.
他沉默地坐了一会儿，眼睛盯着地面，而简手里拿着那个小挂坠盒，翻来覆去，试图找到一些进一步的线索，可能会导致它原来的主人的身份。

At length a simple explanation occurred to her.
最后她想到了一个简单的解释。

The locket had belonged to Lord Greystoke, and the likenesses were of himself and Lady Alice.
挂坠盒属于格雷斯托克勋爵，而挂坠盒上的肖像则是他本人和爱丽丝夫人的。

This wild creature had simply found it in the cabin by the beach. How stupid of her not to have thought of that solution before.
这个野生生物只是在海滩边的小屋里发现了它。她真是太愚蠢了，之前没有想到这个解决办法。

But to account for the strange likeness between Lord Greystoke and this forest god—that was quite beyond her, and it is not strange that she could not imagine that this naked savage was indeed an English nobleman.
但要解释格雷斯托克勋爵和这位森林之神之间奇怪的相似之处——这完全超出了她的能力范围，而且她无法想象这个赤身裸体的野蛮人确实是一位英国贵族，这并不奇怪。

At length Tarzan looked up to watch the girl as she examined the locket. He could not fathom the meaning of the faces within, but he could read the interest and fascination upon the face of the live young creature by his side.
最后，泰山抬起头来看着女孩，她正在检查挂坠盒。他无法理解里面那些面孔的含义，但他可以读懂身边这个活生生的年轻生物脸上的兴趣和迷恋。

She noticed that he was watching her and thinking that he wished his ornament again she held it out to him. He took it from her and taking the chain in his two hands he placed it about her neck, smiling at her expression of surprise at his unexpected gift.
她注意到他正在看着她，并认为他希望再次得到他的装饰品，于是她把它递给了他。他从她手中接过项链，用两只手握住链子，将它挂在她的脖子上，看着她对他意想不到的礼物感到惊讶的表情，他微笑着。

Jane shook her head vehemently and would have removed the golden links from about her throat, but Tarzan would not let her. Taking her hands in his, when she insisted upon it, he held them tightly to prevent her.
简猛烈地摇摇头，想把喉咙上的金色链环取下来，但泰山不让她这么做。当她坚持要这么做时，他将她的手握在他的手上，他紧紧地握着她的手，阻止她这么做。

At last she desisted and with a little laugh raised the locket to her lips.
最后她停了下来，微微一笑，把挂坠盒举到唇边。

Tarzan did not know precisely what she meant, but he guessed correctly that it was her way of acknowledging the gift, and so he rose, and taking the locket in his hand, stooped gravely like some courtier of old, and pressed his lips upon it where hers had rested.
泰山不明白她的确切意思，但他猜对了，这是她承认礼物的方式，于是他站起来，手里拿着挂坠盒，像古代朝臣一样严肃地弯下腰，用嘴唇压在上面。她休息过的地方。

It was a stately and gallant little compliment performed with the grace and dignity of utter unconsciousness of self. It was the hall-mark of his aristocratic birth, the natural outcropping of many generations of fine breeding, an hereditary instinct of graciousness which a lifetime of uncouth and savage training and environment could not eradicate.
这是一种庄严而英勇的小恭维，带着完全无意识的优雅和尊严。这是他出身贵族的标志，是许多代优良教养的自然表现，是一种遗传的仁慈本能，一生的粗鲁和野蛮的训练和环境都无法消除这种本能。

It was growing dark now, and so they ate again of the fruit which was both food and drink for them; then Tarzan rose, and leading Jane to the little bower he had erected, motioned her to go within.
天色已经黑了，他们又吃了那果子，这对他们来说既是食物又是饮料。然后泰山站了起来，领着简来到他搭建的小凉亭前，示意她进去。

For the first time in hours a feeling of fear swept over her, and Tarzan felt her draw away as though shrinking from him.
几个小时以来第一次，一种恐惧感席卷了她，泰山感觉到她在远离他，仿佛在躲避他。

Contact with this girl for half a day had left a very diferent Tarzan from the one on whom the morning’s sun had risen.
和这个女孩接触了半天，泰山已经和早晨太阳升起时的泰山大不相同了。

Now, in every fiber of his being, heredity spoke louder than training.
现在，在他身体的每一根纤维中，遗传比训练更重要。

He had not in one swift transition become a polished gentleman from a savage ape-man, but at last the instincts of the former predominated, and over all was the desire to please the woman he loved, and to appear well in her eyes.
他并不是一下子就从野蛮的猿人变成了优雅的绅士，但最终前者的本能占据了主导地位，最重要的是想要取悦他所爱的女人，并在她眼中表现得很好。

So Tarzan of the Apes did the only thing he knew to assure Jane of her safety. He removed his hunting knife from its sheath and handed it to her hilt first, again motioning her into the bower.
因此，人猿泰山做了他所知道的唯一一件事来确保简的安全。他从刀鞘中取出猎刀，先递到她的刀柄上，再次示意她进凉亭。

The girl understood, and taking the long knife she entered and lay down upon the soft grasses while Tarzan of the Apes stretched himself upon the ground across the entrance.
女孩明白了，她拿着长刀走进去，躺在柔软的草地上，而人猿泰山则躺在入口处的地上。

And thus the rising sun found them in the morning.
就这样，早晨升起的太阳发现了他们。

When Jane awoke, she did not at first recall the strange events of the preceding day, and so she wondered at her odd surroundings—the little leafy bower, the soft grasses of her bed, the unfamiliar prospect from the opening at her feet.
当简醒来时，她一开始并没有回忆起前一天发生的奇怪事件，因此她对周围奇怪的环境感到好奇——绿叶茂盛的小凉亭，床上柔软的草，以及脚下空旷处看到的陌生景色。

Slowly the circumstances of her position crept one by one into her mind. And then a great wonderment arose in her heart—a mighty wave of thankfulness and gratitude that though she had been in such terrible danger, yet she was unharmed.
慢慢地，她的处境一一浮现在她的脑海里。然后她心里升起一股巨大的惊奇——一股强烈的感激和感激之情涌上心头，尽管她处于如此可怕的危险之中，但她却安然无恙。

She moved to the entrance of the shelter to look for Tarzan. He was gone; but this time no fear assailed her for she knew that he would return.
她走到避难所门口寻找泰山。他走了；他走了。但这一次她不再害怕，因为她知道他会回来。

In the grass at the entrance to her bower she saw the imprint of his body where he had lain all night to guard her. She knew that the fact that he had been there was all that had permitted her to sleep in such peaceful security.
在她凉亭入口处的草地上，她看到了他的身体印记，他整夜都躺在那里守护着她。她知道，正是有他在场，才让她能够安然入睡。

With him near, who could entertain fear? She wondered if there was another man on earth with whom a girl could feel so safe in the heart of this savage African jungle. Even the lions and panthers had no fears for her now.
有他在身边，谁能害怕？她想知道地球上是否还有另一个男人能让女孩在这片野蛮的非洲丛林中感到如此安全。现在连狮子和黑豹都不再惧怕她了。

She looked up to see his lithe form drop softly from a near-by tree. As he caught her eyes upon him his face lighted with that frank and radiant smile that had won her confidence the day before.
她抬起头，看到他轻盈的身躯从附近的一棵树上轻轻落下。当他看到她的目光注视着他时，他的脸上绽放出前一天赢得她信任的坦率而灿烂的微笑。

As he approached her Jane’s heart beat faster and her eyes brightened as they had never done before at the approach of any man.
当他走近她时，简的心跳加快，她的眼睛变得明亮起来，这是以前任何男人走近时从未有过的。

He had again been gathering fruit and this he laid at the entrance of her bower. Once more they sat down together to eat.
他又去采摘水果了，把它放在她凉亭的入口处。他们再次坐在一起吃饭。

Jane commenced to wonder what his plans were. Would he take her back to the beach or would he keep her here? Suddenly she realized that the matter did not seem to give her much concern. Could it be that she did not care!
简开始想知道他的计划是什么。他会带她回海滩还是把她留在这里？她忽然发现，这件事似乎并没有让她太在意。难道她不在乎！

She began to comprehend, also, that she was entirely contented sitting here by the side of this smiling giant eating delicious fruit in a sylvan paradise far within the remote depths of an African jungle—that she was contented and very happy.
她也开始理解，她完全满足于坐在这个微笑的巨人身边，在非洲丛林深处的森林天堂里吃着美味的水果——她感到满足和非常幸福。

She could not understand it. Her reason told her that she should be torn by wild anxieties, weighted by dread fears, cast down by gloomy forebodings; but instead, her heart was singing and she was smiling into the answering face of the man beside her.
她无法理解。她的理智告诉她，她应该被狂野的焦虑所撕裂，被可怕的恐惧所压垮，被阴郁的预感压垮；但相反，她的心在歌唱，她对着旁边男人回应的脸微笑着。

When they had finished their breakfast Tarzan went to her bower and recovered his knife. The girl had entirely forgotten it. She realized that it was because she had forgotten the fear that prompted her to accept it.
当他们吃完早餐后，泰山来到她的凉亭，取回了他的刀。女孩已经完全忘记了。她意识到，正是因为忘记了恐惧，才促使她接受。

Motioning her to follow, Tarzan walked toward the trees at the edge of the arena, and taking her in one strong arm swung to the branches above.
泰山示意她跟上，然后朝竞技场边缘的树林走去，用一只有力的手臂抓住她，挥向上方的树枝。

The girl knew that he was taking her back to her people, and she could not understand the sudden feeling of loneliness and sorrow which crept over her.
女孩知道他正在带她回到她的人民身边，她无法理解突然袭上心头的孤独和悲伤的感觉。

For hours they swung slowly along.
他们缓慢地摇摆了几个小时。

Tarzan of the Apes did not hurry. He tried to draw out the sweet pleasure of that journey with those dear arms about his neck as long as possible, and so he went far south of the direct route to the beach.
人猿泰山并不着急。他试图尽可能长时间地用那双亲爱的手臂搂着他的脖子，享受这段旅程的甜蜜乐趣，所以他沿着通往海滩的直接路线向南走了很远的地方。

Several times they halted for brief rests, which Tarzan did not need, and at noon they stopped for an hour at a little brook, where they quenched their thirst, and ate.
有几次他们停下来短暂休息，泰山并不需要这样，中午他们在一条小溪边停了一个小时，在那里解渴并吃饭。

So it was nearly sunset when they came to the clearing, and Tarzan, dropping to the ground beside a great tree, parted the tall jungle grass and pointed out the little cabin to her.
因此，当他们来到空地时，已近日落，泰山落在一棵大树旁边的地上，拨开高高的丛林草丛，向她指了指那间小木屋。

She took him by the hand to lead him to it, that she might tell her father that this man had saved her from death and worse than death, that he had watched over her as carefully as a mother might have done.
她拉着他的手，把他引向那里，这样她就可以告诉她的父亲，这个男人救了她免于死亡，而且比死亡更糟糕，他像母亲一样细心地照顾着她。

But again the timidity of the wild thing in the face of human habitation swept over Tarzan of the Apes. He drew back, shaking his head.
但野生动物面对人类居住的胆怯再次席卷了人猿泰山。他退后一步，摇摇头。

The girl came close to him, looking up with pleading eyes. Somehow she could not bear the thought of his going back into the terrible jungle alone.
女孩靠近他，抬起头，眼神充满恳求。不知怎的，一想到他要独自回到可怕的丛林，她就无法忍受。

Still he shook his head, and finally he drew her to him very gently and stooped to kiss her, but first he looked into her eyes and waited to learn if she were pleased, or if she would repulse him.
他仍然摇摇头，最后他非常温柔地把她拉到身边，弯下腰去吻她，但他首先看着她的眼睛，等着知道她是否高兴，或者她是否会拒绝他。

Just an instant the girl hesitated, and then she realized the truth, and throwing her arms about his neck she drew his face to hers and kissed him—unashamed.
女孩犹豫了一会儿，然后她意识到了真相，她用双臂搂住他的脖子，把他的脸拉到自己的脸上，毫不羞耻地吻了他。

‘I love you—I love you,’ she murmured.
“我爱你——我爱你，”她低声说道。

From far in the distance came the faint sound of many guns. Tarzan and Jane raised their heads.
远处，隐约传来许多枪声。泰山和简抬起头。

From the cabin came Mr. Philander and Esmeralda.
菲兰德先生和埃斯梅拉达从小屋里出来。

From where Tarzan and the girl stood they could not see the two vessels lying at anchor in the harbor.
从泰山和女孩站的地方看不到停泊在港口的两艘船。

Tarzan pointed toward the sounds, touched his breast and pointed again. She understood. He was going, and something told her that it was because he thought her people were in danger.
泰山指着声音的方向，摸了摸胸口，又指了指。她明白了。他要走了，有件事告诉她，这是因为他认为她的人民处于危险之中。

Again he kissed her.
他再次吻了她。

‘Come back to me,’ she whispered. ‘I shall wait for you—always.’
“回到我身边，”她低声说道。 “我会等你——永远。”

He was gone—and Jane turned to walk across the clearing to the cabin.
他走了——简转身穿过空地走向小屋。

Mr. Philander was the first to see her. It was dusk and Mr. Philander was very near sighted.
菲兰德先生是第一个见到她的人。当时是黄昏，菲兰德先生的近视很严重。

‘Quickly, Esmeralda!’ he cried. ‘Let us seek safety within; it is a lioness. Bless me!’
“快点，埃斯梅拉达！”他喊道。 “让我们在内部寻求安全；它是一头母狮。保佑我（宗教！'

Esmeralda did not bother to verify Mr. Philander’s vision. His tone was enough. She was within the cabin and had slammed and bolted the door before he had finished pronouncing her name. The ‘Bless me’ was startled out of Mr. Philander by the discovery that Esmeralda, in the exuberance of her haste, had fastened him upon the same side of the door as was the close-approaching lioness.
埃斯梅拉达没有费心去验证菲兰德先生的视力。他的语气已经足够了。她在小屋里，在他念完她的名字之前，她就关上门并用螺栓锁上。菲兰德先生惊讶地发现埃斯梅拉达在匆忙中把他锁在了门的同一侧，就像那头正在逼近的母狮一样。

He beat furiously upon the heavy portal.
他猛烈地敲击沉重的大门。

‘Esmeralda! Esmeralda!’ he shrieked. ‘Let me in. I am being devoured by a lion.’
“埃斯梅拉达！埃斯梅拉达！”他尖叫道。 “让我进去。我正被狮子吃掉。”

Esmeralda thought that the noise upon the door was made by the lioness in her attempts to pursue her, so, after her custom, she fainted.
埃斯梅拉达以为门上的噪音是母狮试图追赶她时发出的，所以按照她的习惯，她晕了过去。

Mr. Philander cast a frightened glance behind him.
菲兰德先生惊恐地向身后看了一眼。

Horrors! The thing was quite close now. He tried to scramble up the side of the cabin, and succeeded in catching a fleeting hold upon the thatched roof.
恐怖！现在事情已经很接近了。他试图爬上小屋的一侧，并成功抓住了茅草屋顶。

For a moment he hung there, clawing with his feet like a cat on a clothesline, but presently a piece of the thatch came away, and Mr. Philander, preceding it, was precipitated upon his back.
有一会儿，他挂在那里，像猫在晾衣绳上一样用脚抓着，但不久，一块茅草脱落了，前面的菲兰德先生倒在了他的背上。

At the instant he fell a remarkable item of natural history leaped to his mind. If one feigns death lions and lionesses are supposed to ignore one, according to Mr. Philander’s faulty memory.
在他倒下的那一刻，自然历史上的一件非凡的事情跃入了他的脑海。根据菲兰德先生错误的记忆，如果一头假死，狮子和母狮就会忽视它。

So Mr. Philander lay as he had fallen, frozen into the horrid semblance of death. As his arms and legs had been extended stiffly upward as he came to earth upon his back the attitude of death was anything but impressive.
菲兰德先生倒在地上，浑身僵硬，一副死亡的可怕样子。当他仰面着地时，他的胳膊和腿都僵硬地向上伸展，死亡的姿态一点也不令人印象深刻。

Jane had been watching his antics in mild-eyed surprise. Now she laughed—a little choking gurgle of a laugh; but it was enough. Mr. Philander rolled over upon his side and peered about. At length he discovered her.
简一直用温和的惊讶目光看着他的滑稽动作。现在她笑了——笑声有点令人窒息；但这已经足够了。菲兰德先生翻身侧身，四处张望。最后他发现了她。

‘Jane!’ he cried. ‘Jane Porter. Bless me!’
“简！”他喊道。 ‘简·波特。保佑我（宗教！'

He scrambled to his feet and rushed toward her. He could not believe that it was she, and alive.
他爬起来，冲向她。他不敢相信那是她，而且还活着。

‘Bless me!’ Where did you come from? Where in the world have you been? How—‘
“祝福我！”你从哪里来？你到底去了哪里？如何-'

‘Mercy, Mr. Philander,’ interrupted the girl, ‘I can never remember so many questions.’
“天哪，菲兰德先生，”女孩打断道，“我从来不记得这么多问题。”

‘Well, well,’ said Mr. Philander. ‘Bless me! I am so filled with surprise and exuberant delight at seeing you safe and well again that I scarcely know what I am saying, really. But come, tell me all that has happened to you.’
“好吧，好吧，”菲兰德先生说。 '保佑我（宗教！看到你再次安然无恙，我感到非常惊讶和欣喜，以至于我几乎不知道自己在说什么，真的。但是来吧，告诉我发生在你身上的一切。”

Chapter 21
第21章


The Village of Torture
酷刑村

As the little expedition of sailors toiled through the dense jungle searching for signs of Jane Porter, the futility of their venture became more and more apparent, but the grief of the old man and the hopeless eyes of the young Englishman prevented the kind hearted D’Arnot from turning back.
当水手们在茂密的丛林中辛苦地寻找简·波特的踪迹时，他们的冒险的徒劳性变得越来越明显，但老人的悲伤和年轻的英国人绝望的眼神阻止了善良的德阿诺特不回头。

He thought that there might be a bare possibility of finding her body, or the remains of it, for he was positive that she had been devoured by some beast of prey. He deployed his men into a skirmish line from the point where Esmeralda had been found, and in this extended formation they pushed their way, sweating and panting, through the tangled vines and creepers. It was slow work. Noon found them but a few miles inland. They halted for a brief rest then, and after pushing on for a short distance further one of the men discovered a well-marked trail.
他认为找到她的尸体或残骸的可能性微乎其微，因为他确信她已经被某种猛兽吃掉了。他从发现埃斯梅拉达的地点开始将他的部下部署成小规模战斗线，在这个延伸的队形中，他们汗流浃背、气喘吁吁地穿过纠缠的藤蔓和爬山虎。这是一个缓慢的工作。中午，他们在内陆几英里处发现了他们。然后他们停下来短暂休息，再向前推进了一小段距离后，其中一个人发现了一条标记清晰的小路。

It was an old elephant track, and D’Arnot after consulting with Professor Porter and Clayton decided to follow it.
这是一条古老的大象足迹，达诺特在咨询了波特教授和克莱顿教授后决定沿着它走。

The path wound through the jungle in a northeasterly direction, and along it the column moved in single file.
小路向东北方向蜿蜒穿过丛林，队伍沿路排成一列行进。

Lieutenant D’Arnot was in the lead and moving at a quick pace, for the trail was comparatively open. Immediately behind him came Professor Porter, but as he could not keep pace with the younger man D’Arnot was a hundred yards in advance when suddenly a half dozen black warriors arose about him.
达诺特中尉走在前面，行进速度很快，因为道路比较开阔。波特教授紧随其后，但由于他无法跟上年轻人，达诺特已经领先了一百码，这时突然有六名黑人武士出现在他周围。

D’Arnot gave a warning shout to his column as the blacks closed on him, but before he could draw his revolver he had been pinioned and dragged into the jungle.
当黑人向他逼近时，达诺特向他的纵队发出了警告性的喊叫，但在他拔出左轮手枪之前，他已经被拖进了丛林。

His cry had alarmed the sailors and a dozen of them sprang forward past Professor Porter, running up the trail to their officer’s aid.
他的叫声惊动了水手们，十几个人从波特教授身边跳了过去，沿着小路跑去帮助他们的军官。

They did not know the cause of his outcry, only that it was a warning of danger ahead. They had rushed past the spot where D’Arnot had been seized when a spear hurled from the jungle transfixed one of the men, and then a volley of arrows fell among them.
他们不知道他抗议的原因，只知道这是对前方危险的警告。他们冲过达诺特被抓的地方，一支长矛从丛林中投来，击中了其中一​​人，然后一连串箭射到了他们中间。

Raising their rifles they fired into the underbrush in the direction from which the missiles had come.
他们举起步枪，朝导弹来的方向向灌木丛开火。

By this time the balance of the party had come up, and volley after volley was fired toward the concealed foe. It was these shots that Tarzan and Jane Porter had heard.
这时，队伍的平衡已经形成，一排又一排的齐射向隐藏的敌人射击。泰山和简·波特听到的就是这些枪声。

Lieutenant Charpentier, who had been bringing up the rear of the column, now came running to the scene, and on hearing the details of the ambush ordered the men to follow him, and plunged into the tangled vegetation.
一直走在纵队最后面的卡彭蒂埃中尉现在跑到了现场，听到伏击的详细情况后，命令士兵们跟上他，然后一头扎进了纠结的植被里。

In an instant they were in a hand-to-hand fight with some fifty black warriors of Mbonga’s village. Arrows and bullets flew thick and fast.
瞬间，他们就与姆邦加村庄的大约五十名黑人武士展开了肉搏战。箭和子弹飞得又密又快。

Queer African knives and French gun butts mingled for a moment in savage and bloody duels, but soon the natives fled into the jungle, leaving the Frenchmen to count their losses.
奇怪的非洲刀和法国枪托在野蛮和血腥的决斗中混合在一起，但很快当地人就逃进了丛林，留下法国人来计算他们的损失。

Four of the twenty were dead, a dozen others were wounded, and Lieutenant D’Arnot was missing. Night was falling rapidly, and their predicament was rendered doubly worse when they could not even find the elephant trail which they had been following.
二十人中四人死亡，十几人受伤，达诺特中尉失踪。夜幕很快降临，他们的处境变得更加糟糕，他们甚至找不到他们一直追随的大象踪迹。

There was but one thing to do, make camp where they were until daylight. Lieutenant Charpentier ordered a clearing made and a circular abatis of underbrush constructed about the camp.
只有一件事要做，那就在原地扎营直到天亮。卡彭蒂埃中尉下令在营地周围开辟一块空地，并在灌木丛中建造一个圆形的栖息地。

This work was not completed until long after dark, the men building a huge fire in the center of the clearing to give them light to work by.
这项工作直到天黑后才完成，工人们在空地中央生起一堆大火，为他们的工作提供照明。

When all was safe as possible against attack of wild beasts and savage men, Lieutenant Charpentier placed sentries about the little camp and the tired and hungry men threw themselves upon the ground to sleep.
当一切都尽可能安全地抵御野兽和野蛮人的袭击时，卡彭蒂埃中尉在这个小营地周围布置了哨兵，疲惫而饥饿的人们就倒在地上睡觉了。

The groans of the wounded, mingled with the roaring and growling of the great beasts which the noise and firelight had attracted, kept sleep, except in its most fitful form, from the tired eyes. It was a sad and hungry party that lay through the long night praying for dawn.
伤员的呻吟声，与噪音和火光所吸引的巨兽的咆哮声和咆哮声混合在一起，使疲倦的眼睛保持睡眠，除了最断断续续的形式。这是一个悲伤而饥饿的聚会，他们度过了漫漫长夜，祈祷黎明。

The blacks who had seized D’Arnot had not waited to participate in the fight which followed, but instead had dragged their prisoner a little way through the jungle and then struck the trail further on beyond the scene of the fighting in which their fellows were engaged.
占领了达诺特的黑人并没有等待参加接下来的战斗，而是把他们的囚犯拖过丛林一小段距离，然后沿着小路走得更远，远离他们的同伴正在进行的战斗现场。

They hurried him along, the sounds of battle growing fainter and fainter as they drew away from the contestants until there suddenly broke upon D’Arnot’s vision a good-sized clearing at one end of which stood a thatched and palisaded village.
他们催促他继续前行，随着他们远离参赛者，战斗的声音也越来越微弱，直到达诺特的视野中突然出现一片相当大的空地，空地的一端矗立着一个茅草覆盖、栅栏环绕的村庄。

It was now dusk, but the watchers at the gate saw the approaching trio and distinguished one as a prisoner ere they reached the portals.
此时已是黄昏，但门口的守望者看到了正在逼近的三人，并在他们到达大门之前就将其中一人认作是囚犯。

A cry went up within the palisade. A great throng of women and children rushed out to meet the party.
栅栏内响起了一声叫喊。一大群妇女和儿童冲出来迎接这群人。

And then began for the French officer the most terrifying experience which man can encounter upon earth—the reception of a white prisoner into a village of African cannibals.
然后，这位法国军官开始了地球上最可怕的经历——将一名白人囚犯接待到一个非洲食人村。

To add to the fiendishness of their cruel savagery was the poignant memory of still crueler barbarities practiced upon them and theirs by the white officers of that arch hypocrite, Leopold II of Belgium, because of whose atrocities they had fled the Congo Free State—a pitiful remnant of what once had been a mighty tribe.
更令人心酸的是，他们的残酷野蛮行径是比利时利奥波德二世那个大伪君子的白人军官对他们和他们的人所施行的更残酷的野蛮行径，由于他的暴行，他们逃离了刚果自由邦——这是一个可怜的人。曾经是一个强大部落的残余。

They fell upon D’Arnot tooth and nail, beating him with sticks and stones and tearing at him with claw-like hands. Every vestige of clothing was torn from him, and the merciless blows fell upon his bare and quivering flesh. But not once did the Frenchman cry out in pain. He breathed a silent prayer that he be quickly delivered from his torture.
他们用棍棒和石头殴打达诺特，用爪子般的手撕扯他。他身上的所有衣服都被撕裂了，无情的打击落在他赤裸、颤抖的肉体上。但法国人一次也没有痛苦地叫喊过。他默默地祈祷，希望自己能尽快摆脱酷刑。

But the death he prayed for was not to be so easily had. Soon the warriors beat the women away from their prisoner. He was to be saved for nobler sport than this, and the first wave of their passion having subsided they contented themselves with crying out taunts and insults and spitting upon him.
但他所祈求的死亡却没有那么容易实现。很快，战士们就把这些妇女从囚犯身边赶走了。他被拯救是为了比这更高尚的运动，他们的第一波热情平息后，他们满足于大声嘲笑和侮辱并向他吐口水。

Presently they reached the center of the village. There D’Arnot was bound securely to the great post from which no live man had ever been released.
不一会儿，他们就到了村子的中心。在那里，达诺特被牢牢地绑在这座伟大的柱子上，从未有人从那里被释放过。

A number of the women scattered to their several huts to fetch pots and water, while others built a row of fires on which portions of the feast were to be boiled while the balance would be slowly dried in strips for future use, as they expected the other warriors to return with many prisoners. The festivities were delayed awaiting the return of the warriors who had remained to engage in the skirmish with the white men, so that it was quite late when all were in the village, and the dance of death commenced to circle around the doomed officer.
一些妇女分散到她们的几间小屋去取锅和水，而其他妇女则生起一排火，在上面煮宴席的一部分，而其余的则慢慢地晒干，以备将来使用，正如她们所期望的那样其他战士带着许多囚犯返回。庆祝活动被推迟，等待留下来与白人进行小规模冲突的战士回来，所以当所有人都在村庄里时已经很晚了，死亡之舞开始围绕着注定要失败的军官。

Half fainting from pain and exhaustion, D’Arnot watched from beneath half-closed lids what seemed but the vagary of delirium, or some horrid nightmare from which he must soon awake.
达诺特因疼痛和疲惫而几乎昏厥，他半闭着的眼皮下看到的景象似乎只是变幻莫测的谵妄，或者是一场他很快就会从中醒来的可怕噩梦。

The bestial faces, daubed with color—the huge mouths and flabby hanging lips—the yellow teeth, sharp filed—the rolling, demon eyes—the shining naked bodies—the cruel spears. Surely no such creatures really existed upon earth—he must indeed be dreaming.
涂抹着色彩的野兽般的面孔——巨大的嘴巴和松弛下垂的嘴唇——黄色的牙齿，锋利的锉刀——滚动的恶魔般的眼睛——闪闪发光的赤裸身体——残酷的长矛。地球上肯定不存在这样的生物——他一定是在做梦。

The savage, whirling bodies circled nearer. Now a spear sprang forth and touched his arm. The sharp pain and the feel of hot, trickling blood assured him of the awful reality of his hopeless position.
那些野蛮的、旋转的尸体绕得更近了。这时，一根长矛突然伸出，抵在了他的手臂上。剧烈的疼痛和热血流淌的感觉让他确信自己的处境是多么可怕。

Another spear and then another touched him. He closed his eyes and held his teeth firm set—he would not cry out.
又一根矛，又一根矛触到了他。他闭上眼睛，咬紧牙关——他不会哭出来。

He was a soldier of France, and he would teach these beasts how an officer and a gentleman died.
他是一名法国士兵，他要教给这些野兽一个军官和一个绅士是如何死的。

Tarzan of the Apes needed no interpreter to translate the story of those distant shots. With Jane Porter’s kisses still warm upon his lips he was swinging with incredible rapidity through the forest trees straight toward the village of Mbonga.
《人猿泰山》不需要翻译来翻译那些遥远镜头的故事。简·波特的吻仍然温暖地落在他的嘴唇上，他以令人难以置信的速度穿过森林，直奔姆邦加村。

He was not interested in the location of the encounter, for he judged that that would soon be over. Those who were killed he could not aid, those who escaped would not need his assistance.
他对相遇的地点不感兴趣，因为他判断那件事很快就会结束。被杀的人他无法救助，逃亡的人也不需要他的救助。

It was to those who had neither been killed or escaped that he hastened. And he knew that he would find them by the great post in the center of Mbonga village.
他赶忙是为了那些既没有被杀，也没有逃脱的人。他知道他会在姆邦加村中心的大哨所找到他们。

Many times had Tarzan seen Mbonga’s black raiding parties return from the northward with prisoners, and always were the same scenes enacted about that grim stake, beneath the flaring light of many fires.
泰山曾多次看到姆邦加的黑色袭击队伍带着囚犯从北方返回，在许多火光的照耀下，那座可怕的木桩上总是上演着同样的场景。

He knew, too, that they seldom lost much time before consummating the fiendish purpose of their captures. He doubted that he would arrive in time to do more than avenge.
他也知道，他们很少会浪费太多时间来完成他们的抓捕的邪恶目的。他怀疑自己能否及时赶到，除了报仇之外还能做些什么。

On he sped. Night had fallen and he traveled high along the upper terrace where the gorgeous tropic moon lighted the dizzy pathway through the gently undulating branches of the tree tops.
他继续加速。夜幕降临，他沿着上层露台走得很高，华丽的热带月亮穿过树顶轻轻起伏的树枝，照亮了令人晕眩的小路。

Presently he caught the reflection of a distant blaze. It lay to the right of his path. It must be the light from the camp fire the two men had built before they were attacked—Tarzan knew nothing of the presence of the sailors.
不久，他看到了远处火焰的倒影。它位于他路径的右侧。这肯定是两人在遭到袭击之前生起的营火发出的光——泰山对水手们的存在一无所知。

So sure was Tarzan of his jungle knowledge that he did not turn from his course, but passed the glare at a distance of a half mile. It was the camp fire of the Frenchmen.
泰山对自己的丛林知识非常确信，因此他没有改变路线，而是在半英里之外穿过了强光。这是法国人的营火。

In a few minutes more Tarzan swung into the trees above Mbonga’s village. Ah, he was not quite too late! Or, was he? He could not tell. The figure at the stake was very still, yet the black warriors were but pricking it.
几分钟后，又一只泰山飞进了姆邦加村庄上方的树林里。啊，他还不算太晚！或者，他是吗？他说不出来。木桩上的人一动不动，但黑武士却只是在刺痛它。

Tarzan knew their customs. The death blow had not been struck. He could tell almost to a minute how far the dance had gone.
泰山了解他们的习俗。致命一击尚未击中。他几乎一分钟就能知道舞蹈已经进行到什么程度了。

In another instant Mbonga’s knife would sever one of the victim’s ears—that would mark the beginning of the end, for very shortly after only a writhing mass of mutilated flesh would remain.
在另一瞬间，姆邦加的刀将割断受害者的一只耳朵——这将标志着终结的开始，因为不久之后，只剩下一团扭动的残破肉块。

There would still be life in it, but death then would be the only charity it craved.
它仍然有生命，但死亡将是它唯一渴望的施舍。

The stake stood forty feet from the nearest tree. Tarzan coiled his rope. Then there rose suddenly above the fiendish cries of the dancing demons the awful challenge of the ape-man.
木桩距离最近的树有四十英尺。泰山盘起绳子。然后，在跳舞的恶魔的恶魔般的叫喊声中，突然出现了猿人的可怕挑战。

The dancers halted as though turned to stone.
舞者们停了下来，仿佛变成了石头。

The rope sped with singing whir high above the heads of the blacks. It was quite invisible in the flaring lights of the camp fires.
绳子在黑人头顶上方高高地飞驰，发出呼呼的歌声。在篝火的耀眼灯光下，它几乎是看不见的。

D’Arnot opened his eyes. A huge black, standing directly before him, lunged backward as though felled by an invisible hand.
达诺特睁开了眼睛。站在他面前的巨大黑色，如同被一只无形之手击倒，向后猛冲。

Struggling and shrieking, his body, rolling from side to side, moved quickly toward the shadows beneath the trees.
他挣扎着，尖叫着，身体左右翻滚，飞快地向树下的阴影移动。

The blacks, their eyes protruding in horror, watched spellbound.
黑人惊恐地瞪大了眼睛，出神地看着。

Once beneath the trees, the body rose straight into the air, and as it disappeared into the foliage above, the terrified negroes, screaming with fright, broke into a mad race for the village gate.
一到树下，尸体就笔直地升到了空中，当它消失在上面的树叶中时，惊恐的黑人们惊恐地尖叫着，疯狂地跑向村门。

D’Arnot was left alone.
达诺特独自一人。

He was a brave man, but he had felt the short hairs bristle upon the nape of his neck when that uncanny cry rose upon the air.
他是个勇敢的人，但当空气中响起那声怪异的叫声时，他感觉到颈背上的短毛都竖了起来。

As the writhing body of the black soared, as though by unearthly power, into the dense foliage of the forest, D’Arnot felt an icy shiver run along his spine, as though death had risen from a dark grave and laid a cold and clammy finger on his flesh.
当黑人扭动的身体仿佛通过超凡的力量飞入森林茂密的树叶时，达诺特感到一阵冰冷的颤抖沿着他的脊椎蔓延，仿佛死亡从黑暗的坟墓中升起，铺上寒冷而潮湿的土地。手指放在他的肉上。

As D’Arnot watched the spot where the body had entered the tree he heard the sounds of movement there.
当达诺特看着尸体进入树的地方时，他听到了那里的动静。

The branches swayed as though under the weight of a man’s body—there was a crash and the black came sprawling to earth again,—to lie very quietly where he had fallen.
树枝摇曳着，仿佛承受着一个人身体的重量——一声巨响，黑色的东西再次四肢伸展到地上——安静地躺在他倒下的地方。

Immediately after him came a white body, but this one alighted erect.
紧接着他身后出现了一个白色的身体，不过这个身体却是直立着落下的。

D’Arnot saw a clean-limbed young giant emerge from the shadows into the firelight and come quickly toward him.
达诺特看到一个四肢干净的年轻巨人从阴影中出现到火光中，并快速向他走来。

What could it mean? Who could it be? Some new creature of torture and destruction, doubtless.
这意味着什么？会是谁呢？毫无疑问，这是一种折磨和破坏的新生物。

D’Arnot waited. His eyes never left the face of the advancing man. Nor did the other’s frank, clear eyes waver beneath D’Arnot’s fixed gaze.
达诺特等待着。他的目光始终没有离开那个走来的男人的脸。在达诺特的凝视下，对方坦率、清澈的眼睛也没有动摇。

D’Arnot was reassured, but still without much hope, though he felt that that face could not mask a cruel heart.
达诺特放心了，但仍然不抱太大希望，尽管他觉得那张脸掩盖不了一颗残酷的心。

Without a word Tarzan of the Apes cut the bonds which held the Frenchman. Weak from suffering and loss of blood, he would have fallen but for the strong arm that caught him.
人猿泰山一言不发地切断了法国人的束缚。由于痛苦和失血，他身体虚弱，如果没有有力的手臂抓住他，他可能会摔倒。

He felt himself lifted from the ground. There was a sensation as of flying, and then he lost consciousness.
他感觉自己被抬离了地面。有一种飞一般的感觉，然后就失去了知觉。

Chapter 22
第22章


The Search Party
搜寻队

When dawn broke upon the little camp of Frenchmen in the heart of the jungle it found a sad and disheartened group.
当黎明降临在丛林中心的法国人小营地时，发现了一群悲伤而沮丧的人。

As soon as it was light enough to see their surroundings Lieutenant Charpentier sent men in groups of three in several directions to locate the trail, and in ten minutes it was found and the expedition was hurrying back toward the beach.
当天色足够亮，可以看到周围的情况时，卡彭蒂埃中尉就派人三人一组，向几个方向寻找踪迹，十分钟后就找到了踪迹，探险队正匆忙返回海滩。

It was slow work, for they bore the bodies of six dead men, two more having succumbed during the night, and several of those who were wounded required support to move even very slowly.
这是一项缓慢的工作，因为他们抬着六具死者的尸体，另外两人在夜间去世，其中一些受伤的人需要支撑才能移动，甚至非常缓慢。

Charpentier had decided to return to camp for reinforcements, and then make an attempt to track down the natives and rescue D’Arnot.
卡彭蒂埃决定返回营地寻求增援，然后尝试追踪当地人并营救达诺特。

It was late in the afternoon when the exhausted men reached the clearing by the beach, but for two of them the return brought so great a happiness that all their suffering and heartbreaking grief was forgotten on the instant.
当疲惫不堪的人们到达海滩边的空地时，已是傍晚时分，但对他们中的两个人来说，这次归来带来了如此巨大的幸福，所有的痛苦和令人心碎的悲伤瞬间被忘记了。

As the little party emerged from the jungle the first person that Professor Porter and Cecil Clayton saw was Jane, standing by the cabin door.
当这一小队人从丛林中出来时，波特教授和塞西尔·克莱顿看到的第一个人就是站在小屋门边的简。

With a little cry of joy and relief she ran forward to greet them, throwing her arms about her father’s neck and bursting into tears for the first time since they had been cast upon this hideous and adventurous shore.
她高兴又松了一口气，跑上前去迎接他们，用双臂搂住父亲的脖子，自从他们被抛到这片可怕而冒险的海岸上以来，这是第一次流泪。

Professor Porter strove manfully to suppress his own emotions, but the strain upon his nerves and weakened vitality were too much for him, and at length, burying his old face in the girl’s shoulder, he sobbed quietly like a tired child.
波特教授勇敢地努力压抑自己的情绪，但神经的紧张和活力的减弱让他承受不了，最后，他把苍老的脸埋在女孩的肩膀上，像一个疲倦的孩子一样小声抽泣。

Jane led him toward the cabin, and the Frenchmen turned toward the beach from which several of their fellows were advancing to meet them.
简领着他走向小屋，法国人转向海滩，他们的几个同伴正从那里迎面而来。

Clayton, wishing to leave father and daughter alone, joined the sailors and remained talking with the officers until their boat pulled away toward the cruiser whither Lieutenant Charpentier was bound to report the unhappy outcome of his adventure.
克莱顿希望让父女俩单独相处，于是他加入了水手们的行列，并继续与军官们交谈，直到他们的船驶向巡洋舰，卡彭蒂埃中尉必须向巡洋舰报告他这次冒险的不幸结果。

Then Clayton turned back slowly toward the cabin. His heart was filled with happiness. The woman he loved was safe.
然后克莱顿慢慢地转身朝小屋走去。他的心里充满了幸福。他所爱的女人安全了。

He wondered by what manner of miracle she had been spared. To see her alive seemed almost unbelievable.
他想知道到底是怎样的奇迹，她才得以幸免。看到她还活着几乎令人难以置信。

As he approached the cabin he saw Jane coming out. When she saw him she hurried forward to meet him.
当他走近小屋时，他看到简走了出来。看到他，她赶紧上前去迎接。

‘Jane!’ he cried, ‘God has been good to us, indeed. Tell me how you escaped—what form Providence took to save you for—us.’
“简！”他喊道，“上帝确实对我们很好。告诉我你是如何逃脱的——上天以什么形式来拯救你——我们。

He had never before called her by her given name. Forty-eight hours before it would have suffused Jane with a soft glow of pleasure to have heard that name from Clayton’s lips—now it frightened her.
他以前从未叫过她的名字。四十八小时前，如果从克莱顿嘴里听到这个名字，简一定会感到一阵轻柔的快乐——现在却让她感到害怕。

‘Mr. Clayton,’ she said quietly, extending her hand, ‘first let me thank you for your chivalrous loyalty to my dear father. He has told me how noble and self-sacrificing you have been. How can we repay you!’
'先生。克莱顿，”她伸出手，轻声说道，“首先让我感谢你对我亲爱的父亲的侠义忠诚。他告诉我你是多么高尚和自我牺牲精神。我们该如何报答你呢！

Clayton noticed that she did not return his familiar salutation, but he felt no misgivings on that score. She had been through so much. This was no time to force his love upon her, he quickly realized.
克莱顿注意到她没有回应他熟悉的问候，但他对此并没有感到疑虑。她经历了太多太多。他很快意识到，现在不是把他的爱强加给她的时候。

‘I am already repaid,’ he said. ‘Just to see you and Professor Porter both safe, well, and together again. I do not think that I could much longer have endured the pathos of his quiet and uncomplaining grief.
他说：“我已经得到了回报。” “只是为了看到你和波特教授都安全、健康、再次在一起。我认为我无法再忍受他平静而无怨无悔的悲痛。

‘It was the saddest experience of my life, Miss Porter; and then, added to it, there was my own grief—the greatest I have ever known. But his was so hopeless—his was pitiful. It taught me that no love, not even that of a man for his wife may be so deep and terrible and self-sacrificing as the love of a father for his daughter.’
“这是我一生中最悲伤的经历，波特小姐；除此之外，还有我自己的悲伤——这是我所知道的最大的悲伤。但他的命运是那么的绝望——他的命运是那么的可怜。它告诉我，没有一种爱，甚至是男人对妻子的爱，能像父亲对女儿的爱那样深沉、可怕和自我牺牲。”

The girl bowed her head. There was a question she wanted to ask, but it seemed almost sacrilegious in the face of the love of these two men and the terrible suffering they had endured while she sat laughing and happy beside a godlike creature of the forest, eating delicious fruits and looking with eyes of love into answering eyes.
女孩低下了头。她有一个问题想问，但面对这两个男人的爱和他们所承受的可怕痛苦，而她坐在一个神一样的森林生物旁边，吃着美味的水果，看着他们，这似乎几乎是亵渎的。用爱的眼睛变成回应的眼睛。

But love is a strange master, and human nature is still stranger, so she asked her question.
但爱情是一个陌生的主人，人性还是陌生的，所以她问了她的问题。

‘Where is the forest man who went to rescue you? Why did he not return?’
‘去救你的森林人在哪里？他为什么没有回来？

‘I do not understand,’ said Clayton. ‘Whom do you mean?’
“我不明白，”克莱顿说。 “你指的是谁？”

‘He who has saved each of us—who saved me from the gorilla.’
“他拯救了我们每个人——他把我从大猩猩手中救了出来。”

‘Oh,’ cried Clayton, in surprise. ‘It was he who rescued you? You have not told me anything of your adventure, you know.’
“哦，”克莱顿惊讶地叫道。 ‘是他救了你？你知道，你还没有告诉我你的冒险经历。

‘But the wood man,’ she urged. ‘Have you not seen him? When we heard the shots in the jungle, very faint and far away, he left me. We had just reached the clearing, and he hurried off in the direction of the fighting. I know he went to aid you.’
“但是木头人，”她催促道。 ‘你没看见他吗？当我们听到丛林中非常微弱且遥远的枪声时，他离开了我。我们刚刚到达空地，他就匆匆朝战斗方向走去。我知道他是来帮助你的。

Her tone was almost pleading—her manner tense with suppressed emotion. Clayton could not but notice it, and he wondered, vaguely, why she was so deeply moved—so anxious to know the whereabouts of this strange creature.
她的语气几乎是恳求的——她的表情因压抑的情绪而紧张。克莱顿无法不注意到这一点，他隐约地想知道为什么她如此感动——如此渴望知道这个奇怪生物的下落。

Yet a feeling of apprehension of some impending sorrow haunted him, and in his breast, unknown to himself, was implanted the first germ of jealousy and suspicion of the ape-man, to whom he owed his life.
然而，一种即将到来的悲伤的忧虑感萦绕在他的心头，他的胸中不知不觉地植入了对猿人的第一个嫉妒和怀疑的萌芽，他的生命归功于猿人。

‘We did not see him,’ he replied quietly. ‘He did not join us.’ And then after a moment of thoughtful pause: ‘Possibly he joined his own tribe—the men who attacked us.’ He did not know why he had said it, for he did not believe it.
“我们没有看到他。”他平静地回答。 “他没有加入我们。”沉思片刻后，他说道：“可能他加入了他自己的部落——那些袭击我们的人。”他不知道自己为什么这么说，因为他不相信。

The girl looked at him wide eyed for a moment.
女孩睁大眼睛看了他一会儿。

‘No!’ she exclaimed vehemently, much too vehemently he thought. ‘It could not be. They were savages.’
“不！”她激烈地喊道，他觉得太过激烈了。 ‘这不可能。他们是野蛮人。

Clayton looked puzzled.
克莱顿看上去很困惑。

‘He is a strange, half-savage creature of the jungle, Miss Porter. We know nothing of him. He neither speaks nor understands any European tongue—and his ornaments and weapons are those of the West Coast savages.’
“他是丛林中一种奇怪的、半野蛮的生物，波特小姐。我们对他一无所知。他既不会说也听不懂任何欧洲语言，他的装饰品和武器都是西海岸野蛮人的。

Clayton was speaking rapidly.
克莱顿语速很快。

‘There are no other human beings than savages within hundreds of miles, Miss Porter. He must belong to the tribes which attacked us, or to some other equally savage—he may even be a cannibal.’
“波特小姐，方圆数百英里之内，除了野蛮人，没有其他人类。他一定属于袭击我们的部落，或者属于其他同样野蛮的部落——他甚至可能是一个食人者。

Jane blanched.
简脸色煞白。

‘I will not believe it,’ she half whispered. ‘It is not true. You shall see,’ she said, addressing Clayton, ‘that he will come back and that he will prove that you are wrong. You do not know him as I do. I tell you that he is a gentleman.’
“我不会相信，”她低声说道。 '这不是真的。你会看到，”她对克莱顿说，“他会回来，他会证明你错了。你不像我那样了解他。我告诉你，他是一位绅士。

Clayton was a generous and chivalrous man, but something in the girl’s breathless defense of the forest man stirred him to unreasoning jealousy, so that for the instant he forgot all that they owed to this wild demi-god, and he answered her with a half sneer upon his lip.
克莱顿是个慷慨而侠义的男人，但是女孩对森林人的气喘吁吁的辩护激起了他无端的嫉妒，因此他一瞬间忘记了他们欠这个狂野的半神的一切，他用半个半人半的回答她。他的唇边冷笑。

‘Possibly you are right, Miss Porter,’ he said, ‘but I do not think that any of us need worry about our carrion-eating acquaintance. The chances are that he is some half-demented castaway who will forget us more quickly, but no more surely, than we shall forget him. He is only a beast of the jungle, Miss Porter.’
“也许你是对的，波特小姐，”他说，“但我认为我们中的任何人都不需要担心我们的食腐熟人。他很可能是一个半疯狂的漂流者，他会比我们更快地忘记他，但并不比我们忘记他更确定。他只是丛林中的野兽，波特小姐。”

The girl did not answer, but she felt her heart shrivel within her.
女孩没有回答，但她感觉自己的心在萎缩。

She knew that Clayton spoke merely what he thought, and for the first time she began to analyze the structure which supported her newfound love, and to subject its object to a critical examination.
她知道克莱顿只是说出了他的想法，她第一次开始分析支持她新发现的爱情的结构，并对其对象进行严格的审查。

Slowly she turned and walked back to the cabin. She tried to imagine her wood-god by her side in the saloon of an ocean liner. She saw him eating with his hands, tearing his food like a beast of prey, and wiping his greasy fingers upon his thighs. She shuddered.
她缓缓转身，走回小屋。她试图想象她的木神在一艘远洋客轮的沙龙里陪伴在她身边。她看见他用手吃饭，像猛兽一样撕扯着食物，用油腻的手指在大腿上擦着。她浑身发抖。

She saw him as she introduced him to her friends—uncouth, illiterate—a boor; and the girl winced.
当她把他介绍给她的朋友们时，她看到了他——粗鲁、文盲——一个粗野的人。女孩皱起了眉头。

She had reached her room now, and as she sat upon the edge of her bed of ferns and grasses, with one hand resting upon her rising and falling bosom, she felt the hard outlines of the man’s locket.
她现在已经到了自己的房间，坐在蕨类植物和草丛的床边，一只手放在起伏的胸前，她感觉到了男人挂坠盒的轮廓。

She drew it out, holding it in the palm of her hand for a moment with tear-blurred eyes bent upon it. Then she raised it to her lips, and crushing it there buried her face in the soft ferns, sobbing.
她把它拿出来，放在手掌上片刻，泪水模糊的眼睛盯着它。然后她把它举到唇边，把它压碎，把脸埋在柔软的蕨类植物中，抽泣着。

‘Beast?’ she murmured. ‘Then God make me a beast; for, man or beast, I am yours.’
“野兽？”她低声说道。 ‘那么上帝让我成为野兽；因为，无论是人还是野兽，我都是你的。”

She did not see Clayton again that day. Esmeralda brought her supper to her, and she sent word to her father that she was suffering from the reaction following her adventure.
那天她没有再见到克莱顿。埃斯梅拉达给她带来了晚餐，她向父亲传达了她因冒险后的反应而遭受的痛苦。

The next morning Clayton left early with the relief expedition in search of Lieutenant D’Arnot. There were two hundred armed men this time, with ten officers and two surgeons, and provisions for a week.
第二天早上，克莱顿带着救援队提前出发去寻找达诺特中尉。这次有两百名武装人员，其中有十名军官和两名外科医生，还有一周的食物。

They carried bedding and hammocks, the latter for transporting their sick and wounded.
他们携带床上用品和吊床，后者用于运送伤病员。

It was a determined and angry company—a punitive expedition as well as one of relief. They reached the sight of the skirmish of the previous expedition shortly after noon, for they were now traveling a known trail and no time was lost in exploring.
这是一支意志坚定、愤怒的队伍——一次惩罚性的远征，同时也是一次解脱。中午过后不久，他们就看到了上次探险队发生的小冲突，因为他们现在正在一条已知的小路上行驶，所以没有浪费时间去探索。

From there on the elephant-track led straight to Mbonga’s village. It was but two o’clock when the head of the column halted upon the edge of the clearing.
从那里沿着大象小道直通姆邦加的村庄。刚到两点钟，队伍的前头就停在了空地的边缘。

Lieutenant Charpentier, who was in command, immediately sent a portion of his force through the jungle to the opposite side of the village. Another detachment was dispatched to a point before the village gate, while he remained with the balance upon the south side of the clearing.
指挥的卡彭蒂埃中尉立即派出一部分部队穿过丛林到达村庄的另一边。另一支小分队被派往村门前的某个地点，而他的余力则留在空地的南侧。

It was arranged that the party which was to take its position to the north, and which would be the last to gain its station should commence the assault, and that their opening volley should be the signal for a concerted rush from all sides in an attempt to carry the village by storm at the first charge.
按照安排，最先到达北方阵地的一方应开始进攻，他们的开场齐射应成为各方齐心协力冲锋的信号。第一次冲锋就席卷整个村庄。

For half an hour the men with Lieutenant Charpentier crouched in the dense foliage of the jungle, waiting the signal. To them it seemed like hours. They could see natives in the fields, and others moving in and out of the village gate.
半个小时以来，卡彭蒂埃中尉和他们蹲在丛林茂密的树叶中，等待信号。对他们来说，这就像几个小时。他们可以看到田野里的当地人，还有其他人进出村门。

At length the signal came—a sharp rattle of musketry, and like one man, an answering volley tore from the jungle to the west and to the south.
终于，信号传来了——一阵尖锐的步枪射击声，然后像一个人一样，回应的齐射从丛林向西和南边猛烈开来。

The natives in the field dropped their implements and broke madly for the palisade. The French bullets mowed them down, and the French sailors bounded over their prostrate bodies straight for the village gate.
田野里的当地人丢下农具，疯狂地冲向栅栏。法军的子弹将他们射倒，法军水手们跨过他们倒下的身体，径直奔向村门。

So sudden and unexpected the assault had been that the whites reached the gates before the frightened natives could bar them, and in another minute the village street was filled with armed men fighting hand to hand in an inextricable tangle.
这次袭击如此突然和出乎意料，以至于白人在惊恐的当地人阻止他们之前就到达了大门，再过一分钟，村庄的街道上就挤满了武装人员，陷入了一场难以摆脱的缠斗。

For a few moments the blacks held their ground within the entrance to the street, but the revolvers, rifles and cutlasses of the Frenchmen crumpled the native spearmen and struck down the black archers with their bows halfdrawn.
黑人在街道入口处坚守了一会儿，但法国人的左轮手枪、步枪和弯刀击溃了当地的长矛兵，并击倒了半拉弓的黑人弓箭手。

Soon the battle turned to a wild rout, and then to a grim massacre; for the French sailors had seen bits of D’Arnot’s uniform upon several of the black warriors who opposed them.
很快，战斗就变成了一场疯狂的溃败，然后变成了一场残酷的屠杀。因为法国水手们在几个反对他们的黑人武士身上看到了达诺特制服的碎片。

They spared the children and those of the women whom they were not forced to kill in self-defense, but when at length they stopped, parting, blood covered and sweating, it was because there lived to oppose them no single warrior of all the savage village of Mbonga.
他们饶恕了那些并非出于自卫而被迫杀害的儿童和妇女，但当他们最终停下来分开时，浑身是血、汗流浃背，这是因为所有野蛮人中没有一个战士能活着反对他们。姆邦加村。

Carefully they ransacked every hut and corner of the village, but no sign of D’Arnot could they find. They questioned the prisoners by signs, and finally one of the sailors who had served in the French Congo found that he could make them understand the bastard tongue that passes for language between the whites and the more degraded tribes of the coast, but even then they could learn nothing definite regarding the fate of D’Arnot.
他们小心翼翼地搜查了村庄的每一个小屋和角落，但没有找到达诺特的踪迹。他们通过手势询问囚犯，最后，一名曾在法属刚果服役的水手发现，他可以让他们听懂白人和沿海更堕落部落之间的语言，但即便如此，他们也无法理解他们的语言。关于达诺特的命运，我们一无所知。

Only excited gestures and expressions of fear could they obtain in response to their inquiries concerning their fellow; and at last they became convinced that these were but evidences of the guilt of these demons who had slaughtered and eaten their comrade two nights before.
当他们询问有关同伴的问题时，他们只能表现出兴奋的姿态和恐惧的表情。最后，他们确信这些只是这些恶魔有罪的证据，这些恶魔在两天前屠杀并吃掉了他们的同伴。

At length all hope left them, and they prepared to camp for the night within the village. The prisoners were herded into three huts where they were heavily guarded. Sentries were posted at the barred gates, and finally the village was wrapped in the silence of slumber, except for the wailing of the native women for their dead.
最后，他们失去了所有的希望，他们准备在村里扎营过夜。囚犯们被关进三间小屋，那里戒备森严。大门紧闭，哨兵驻守，最后，村庄陷入了沉睡的寂静之中，只有土著妇女为死去的人哀号。

The next morning they set out upon the return march. Their original intention had been to burn the village, but this idea was abandoned and the prisoners were left behind, weeping and moaning, but with roofs to cover them and a palisade for refuge from the beasts of the jungle.
第二天一早，他们就出发返程了。他们的初衷是烧毁村庄，但这个想法被放弃了，囚犯们被留下，哭泣和呻吟，但有屋顶遮盖他们，还有栅栏躲避丛林野兽的庇护。

Slowly the expedition retraced its steps of the preceding day. Ten loaded hammocks retarded its pace. In eight of them lay the more seriously wounded, while two swung beneath the weight of the dead.
探险队慢慢地沿着前一天的脚步走去。十张满载的吊床拖慢了它的步伐。其中八人躺着伤势较重的人，还有两人在死者的重压下摇摆不定。

Clayton and Lieutenant Charpentier brought up the rear of the column; the Englishman silent in respect for the other’s grief, for D’Arnot and Charpentier had been inseparable friends since boyhood.
克莱顿和卡彭蒂埃中尉走在纵队的最后面。英国人对对方的悲伤保持沉默，因为达诺特和卡彭蒂埃从小就是形影不离的朋友。

Clayton could not but realize that the Frenchman felt his grief the more keenly because D’Arnot’s sacrifice had been so futile, since Jane had been rescued before D’Arnot had fallen into the hands of the savages, and again because the service in which he had lost his life had been outside his duty and for strangers and aliens; but when he spoke of it to Lieutenant Charpentier, the latter shook his head.
克莱顿不能不意识到，法国人的悲伤更加强烈，因为达诺特的牺牲是徒劳的，因为简在达诺特落入野蛮人手中之前就被救了，而且还因为他所做的服务他的生命超出了他的职责范围，并且是为了陌生人和外国人而失去的；但当他向卡彭蒂埃中尉说起这件事时，后者摇了摇头。

‘No, Monsieur,’ he said, ‘D’Arnot would have chosen to die thus. I only grieve that I could not have died for him, or at least with him. I wish that you could have known him better, Monsieur. He was indeed an officer and a gentleman—a title conferred on many, but deserved by so few.
“不，先生，”他说，“达诺特会选择这样死去。”我唯一悲伤的是我不能为他而死，或者至少不能和他一起死。我希望您能更了解他，先生。他确实是一名军官和绅士——这个头衔被许多人授予，但只有极少数人配得上这个头衔。

‘He did not die futilely, for his death in the cause of a strange American girl will make us, his comrades, face our ends the more bravely, however they may come to us.’
“他并没有白白死去，因为他为一个陌生的美国女孩而死，这将使我们，他的战友，更加勇敢地面对我们的结局，无论他们会如何来到我们身边。”

Clayton did not reply, but within him rose a new respect for Frenchmen which remained undimmed ever after.
克莱顿没有回答，但他内心升起一种对法国人的新的敬意，这种敬意从此未曾减弱。

It was quite late when they reached the cabin by the beach. A single shot before they emerged from the jungle had announced to those in camp as well as on the ship that the expedition had been too late—for it had been prearranged that when they came within a mile or two of camp one shot was to be fired to denote failure, or three for success, while two would have indicated that they had found no sign of either D’Arnot or his black captors.
当他们到达海边的小屋时，已经很晚了。在他们走出丛林之前，一声枪响已经向营地和船上的人宣布，这次探险已经太晚了——因为已经预先安排好，当他们到达营地一两英里以内时，一声枪响就将被击中。发射三枚表示失败，发射三枚表示成功，发射两枚则表示他们没有发现达诺特或他的黑人绑架者的踪迹。

So it was a solemn party that awaited their coming, and few words were spoken as the dead and wounded men were tenderly placed in boats and rowed silently toward the cruiser.
因此，这是一场庄严的聚会，等待着他们的到来，当死者和伤者被温柔地放在船上，静静地划向巡洋舰时，没有说什么。

Clayton, exhausted from his five days of laborious marching through the jungle and from the effects of his two battles with the blacks, turned toward the cabin to seek a mouthful of food and then the comparative ease of his bed of grasses after two nights in the jungle.
克莱顿因五天在丛林中艰苦行军以及两次与黑人战斗的影响而筋疲力尽，他转向小屋寻找一口食物，然后在丛林中度过了两个晚上后，在相对舒适的草床上休息。丛林。

By the cabin door stood Jane.
简站在小屋门边。

‘The poor lieutenant?’ she asked. ‘Did you find no trace of him?’
“可怜的中尉？”她问道。 “你没有发现他的踪迹吗？”

‘We were too late, Miss Porter,’ he replied sadly.
“我们来得太晚了，波特小姐，”他悲伤地回答道。

‘Tell me. What had happened?’ she asked.
'告诉我。发生了什么事？”她问道。

‘I cannot, Miss Porter, it is too horrible.’
“我不能，波特小姐，这太可怕了。”

‘You do not mean that they had tortured him?’ she whispered.
“你不是说他们折磨了他吗？”她低声问道。

‘We do not know what they did to him BEFORE they killed him,’ he answered, his face drawn with fatigue and the sorrow he felt for poor D’Arnot and he emphasized the word before.
“我们不知道他们在杀了他之前对他做了什么，”他回答道，他的脸因疲劳和对可怜的达诺特的悲伤而变得苍白，他强调了之前的词。

‘BEFORE they killed him! What do you mean? They are not—? They are not—?’
‘在他们杀了他之前！你是什​​么意思？他们不是-？他们不是-？'

She was thinking of what Clayton had said of the forest man’s probable relationship to this tribe and she could not frame the awful word.
她正在思考克莱顿所说的森林人与这个部落可能的关系，但她无法说出这个可怕的词。

‘Yes, Miss Porter, they were—cannibals,’ he said, almost bitterly, for to him too had suddenly come the thought of the forest man, and the strange, unaccountable jealousy he had felt two days before swept over him once more.
“是的，波特小姐，他们是——食人者，”他几乎是痛苦地说道，因为他也突然想到了森林人，两天前他所感受到的奇怪的、无法解释的嫉妒再次席卷了他。

And then in sudden brutality that was as unlike Clayton as courteous consideration is unlike an ape, he blurted out:
然后，他突然变得粗暴起来，这不像克莱顿，就像彬彬有礼的体贴不像猿一样，他脱口而出：

‘When your forest god left you he was doubtless hurrying to the feast.’
“当你的森林之神离开你时，他无疑正赶去参加宴会。”

He was sorry ere the words were spoken though he did not know how cruelly they had cut the girl. His regret was for his baseless disloyalty to one who had saved the lives of every member of his party, and offered harm to none.
话还没说完，他就感到抱歉，尽管他不知道他们对这个女孩的伤害有多么残酷。他的遗憾是对他毫无根据的不忠，因为他拯救了党内每一位成员的生命，并且没有伤害任何人。

The girl’s head went high.
女孩的头高高地扬着。

‘There could be but one suitable reply to your assertion, Mr. Clayton,’ she said icily, ‘and I regret that I am not a man, that I might make it.’ She turned quickly and entered the cabin.
“对于你的主张，只有一个合适的答复，克莱顿先生，”她冷冷地说，“很遗憾我不是一个男人，这样我就可以做到这一点。”她迅速转身走进了小屋。

Clayton was an Englishman, so the girl had passed quite out of sight before he deduced what reply a man would have made.
克莱顿是个英国人，所以在他推断出一个男人会做出什么回答之前，那个女孩已经消失在视线之外了。

‘Upon my word,’ he said ruefully, ‘she called me a liar. And I fancy I jolly well deserved it,’ he added thoughtfully. ‘Clayton, my boy, I know you are tired out and unstrung, but that’s no reason why you should make an ass of yourself. You’d better go to bed.’
“据我所知，”他悲伤地说，“她说我是个骗子。”我想这是我应得的，”他若有所思地补充道。 “克莱顿，我的孩子，我知道你已经筋疲力尽，精神不振，但这并不是你出丑的理由。你最好去睡觉了。

But before he did so he called gently to Jane upon the opposite side of the sailcloth partition, for he wished to apologize, but he might as well have addressed the Sphinx. Then he wrote upon a piece of paper and shoved it beneath the partition.
但在这样做之前，他轻轻地向帆布隔断对面的简喊道，因为他想道歉，但他还不如对狮身人面像说话。然后他在一张纸上写了字，把它塞到了隔板下面。

Jane saw the little note and ignored it, for she was very angry and hurt and mortified, but—she was a woman, and so eventually she picked it up and read it.
简看到了那张小纸条，没有理睬它，因为她非常生气、受伤和羞愧，但是——她是一个女人，所以最终她拿起它读了它。

MY DEAR MISS PORTER:
我亲爱的波特小姐：

I had no reason to insinuate what I did. My only excuse is that my nerves must be unstrung—which is no excuse at all.
我没有理由暗示我所做的事情。我唯一的借口是我的神经必须放松——这根本不是借口。

Please try and think that I did not say it. I am very sorry. I would not have hurt YOU, above all others in the world. Say that you forgive me. WM. CECIL CLAYTON.
请试着认为我没有说过。我很抱歉。我不会伤害你，尤其是世界上其他人。说你原谅我。 WM。塞西尔·克莱顿。

‘He did think it or he never would have said it,’ reasoned the girl, ‘but it cannot be true—oh, I know it is not true!’
“他确实这么想，否则他永远不会这么说，”女孩推理道，“但这不可能是真的——哦，我知道这不是真的！”

One sentence in the letter frightened her: ‘I would not have hurt YOU above all others in the world.’
信中的一句话让她感到害怕：“我不会比世界上其他人更伤害你。”

A week ago that sentence would have filled her with delight, now it depressed her.
一周前，这句话会让她感到高兴，现在却让她沮丧。

She wished she had never met Clayton. She was sorry that she had ever seen the forest god. No, she was glad. And there was that other note she had found in the grass before the cabin the day after her return from the jungle, the love note signed by Tarzan of the Apes.
她希望自己从未见过克莱顿。她很遗憾自己见过森林之神。不，她很高兴。从丛林回来的第二天，她在小屋前的草地上发现了另一张纸条，是人猿泰山签名的情书。

Who could be this new suitor? If he were another of the wild denizens of this terrible forest what might he not do to claim her?
谁可能是这个新的追求者？如果他是这片可怕森林中的另一个野生居民，他会做什么来夺取她呢？

‘Esmeralda! Wake up,’ she cried.
“埃斯梅拉达！醒醒吧，”她喊道。

‘You make me so irritable, sleeping there peacefully when you know perfectly well that the world is filled with sorrow.’
“你让我如此烦躁，明明知道世界充满了悲伤，却还安然地睡在那里。”

‘Gaberelle!’ screamed Esmeralda, sitting up. ‘What is it now? A hipponocerous? Where is he, Miss Jane?’
“加贝雷尔！”埃斯梅拉达尖叫着坐了起来。 ‘现在是什么情况？河马？简小姐，他在哪儿？

‘Nonsense, Esmeralda, there is nothing. Go back to sleep. You are bad enough asleep, but you are infinitely worse awake.’
“胡说，艾斯梅拉达，什么都没有。回去睡觉。你睡得已经够糟糕了，但你醒着的时候就更糟糕了。”

‘Yes honey, but what’s the matter with you, precious? You acts sort of disgranulated this evening.’
“是的，亲爱的，但是你怎么了，宝贝？你今晚的表现有点混乱。”

‘Oh, Esmeralda, I’m just plain ugly to-night,’ said the girl. ‘Don’t pay any attention to me—that’s a dear.’
“哦，埃斯梅拉达，我今晚实在是太丑了，”女孩说。 “别理会我——亲爱的。”

‘Yes, honey; now you go right to sleep. Your nerves are all on edge. What with all these ripotamuses and man eating geniuses that Mister Philander been telling about—Lord, it ain’t no wonder we all get nervous prosecution.’
'是的亲爱的;现在你就去睡觉吧。你的神经都很紧张。菲兰德先生讲述的所有这些河马和吃人天才——主啊，难怪我们都会受到紧张的起诉。

Jane crossed the little room, laughing, and kissing the faithful woman, bid Esmeralda good night.
简笑着穿过小房间，亲吻忠实的女人，向埃斯梅拉达道晚安。

Chapter 23
第23章


Brother Men.
曼兄弟。

When D’Arnot regained consciousness, he found himself lying upon a bed of soft ferns and grasses beneath a little ‘A’ shaped shelter of boughs.
当达诺特恢复知觉时，他发现自己躺在一张由柔软的蕨类植物和草组成的床上，下面是一个小小的“A”形树枝庇护所。

At his feet an opening looked out upon a green sward, and at a little distance beyond was the dense wall of jungle and forest.
在他的脚下，有一个空洞，可以看到一片绿色的草地，再远处就是茂密的丛林和森林。

He was very lame and sore and weak, and as full consciousness returned he felt the sharp torture of many cruel wounds and the dull aching of every bone and muscle in his body as a result of the hideous beating he had received.
他跛脚、酸痛、虚弱，当他恢复完全意识时，他感到许多残酷伤口的尖锐折磨，以及由于他所遭受的可怕殴打而使他的每一根骨头和肌肉都隐隐作痛。

Even the turning of his head caused him such excruciating agony that he lay still with closed eyes for a long time.
甚至连头的转动都让他感到极度的痛苦，以至于他闭着眼睛躺了很长一段时间。

He tried to piece out the details of his adventure prior to the time he lost consciousness to see if they would explain his present whereabouts—he wondered if he were among friends or foes.
在他失去知觉之前，他试图弄清楚他的冒险细节，看看他们是否能解释他现在的行踪——他想知道他是在朋友还是敌人之中。

At length he recollected the whole hideous scene at the stake, and finally recalled the strange white figure in whose arms he had sunk into oblivion.
最后，他回忆起火刑柱上的整个可怕场景，最后回忆起那个让他忘却在怀里的奇怪的白色身影。

D’Arnot wondered what fate lay in store for him now. He could neither see nor hear any signs of life about him.
达诺特想知道现在等待着他的命运是什么。他看不到也听不到他周围有任何生命迹象。

The incessant hum of the jungle—the rustling of millions of leaves—the buzz of insects—the voices of the birds and monkeys seemed blended into a strangely soothing purr, as though he lay apart, far from the myriad life whose sounds came to him only as a blurred echo.
丛林中持续不断的嗡嗡声——数百万片树叶的沙沙声——昆虫的嗡嗡声——鸟儿和猴子的声音似乎混合成一种奇怪的舒缓的呼噜声，仿佛他躺在那里，远离了无数的生命，而这些生命的声音传到了他的耳中。只是模糊的回声。

At length he fell into a quiet slumber, nor did he awake again until afternoon.
最后他安静地睡着了，直到下午才再次醒来。

Once more he experienced the strange sense of utter bewilderment that had marked his earlier awakening, but soon he recalled the recent past, and looking through the opening at his feet he saw the figure of a man squatting on his haunches.
他再一次体会到了之前苏醒时那种奇怪的茫然感，但很快他就回想起了刚刚发生的事情，透过脚下的空隙，看到了一个半蹲着的男人的身影。

The broad, muscular back was turned toward him, but, tanned though it was, D’Arnot saw that it was the back of a white man, and he thanked God.
那宽阔、肌肉发达的背部正对着他，尽管它被晒黑了，但达诺特还是看到了那是一个白人的背部，他感谢上帝。

The Frenchman called faintly. The man turned, and rising, came toward the shelter. His face was very handsome—the handsomest, thought D’Arnot, that he had ever seen.
法国人微弱地叫道。男人转身，起身，朝避难所走去。他的脸非常英俊——达诺特想，这是他见过的最英俊的脸。

Stooping, he crawled into the shelter beside the wounded officer, and placed a cool hand upon his forehead.
他弯下腰​​，爬进受伤军官身边的避难所，用一只冰凉的手放在他的额头上。

D’Arnot spoke to him in French, but the man only shook his head—sadly, it seemed to the Frenchman.
达诺特用法语对他说话，但那人只是摇了摇头——在法国人看来，这似乎很悲哀。

Then D’Arnot tried English, but still the man shook his head. Italian, Spanish and German brought similar discouragement.
然后达诺特尝试了英语，但那人仍然摇摇头。意大利语、西班牙语和德语也带来了类似的挫败感。

D’Arnot knew a few words of Norwegian, Russian, Greek, and also had a smattering of the language of one of the West Coast negro tribes—the man denied them all.
达诺特懂几句挪威语、俄语、希腊语，还略懂一点西海岸黑人部落的语言——但这个人全都否认。

After examining D’Arnot’s wounds the man left the shelter and disappeared. In half an hour he was back with fruit and a hollow gourd-like vegetable filled with water.
检查完达诺特的伤口后，该男子离开避难所并消失了。半小时后，他带着水果和一个装满水的空心葫芦状蔬菜回来了。

D’Arnot drank and ate a little. He was surprised that he had no fever. Again he tried to converse with his strange nurse, but the attempt was useless.
达诺特喝了一点，吃了一点。他很惊讶自己没有发烧。他再次尝试与陌生的护士交谈，但尝试毫无用处。

Suddenly the man hastened from the shelter only to return a few minutes later with several pieces of bark and—wonder of wonders—a lead pencil.
突然，这名男子匆匆从避难所跑了出来，几分钟后又带着几片树皮和——奇迹中的奇迹——一支铅笔回来了。

Squatting beside D’Arnot he wrote for a minute on the smooth inner surface of the bark; then he handed it to the Frenchman.
他蹲在达诺特旁边，在光滑的树皮内表面上写了一分钟；然后他把它交给了法国人。

D’Arnot was astonished to see, in plain print-like characters, a message in English:
达诺特惊讶地发现，用类似印刷体的普通字符写着一条英文信息：

I am Tarzan of the Apes. Who are you? Can you read this language?
我是人猿泰山。你是谁？你能读懂这种语言吗？

D’Arnot seized the pencil—then he stopped. This strange man wrote English—evidently he was an Englishman.
达诺特抓起铅笔——然后停了下来。这个奇怪的人写的是英语——显然他是一个英国人。

‘Yes,’ said D’Arnot, ‘I read English. I speak it also. Now we may talk. First let me thank you for all that you have done for me.’
“是的，”达诺特说，“我读英语。我也讲这个。现在我们可以谈谈了。首先让我感谢你为我所做的一切。

The man only shook his head and pointed to the pencil and the bark.
那人只是摇摇头，指着铅笔和树皮。

‘MON DIEU!’ cried D’Arnot. ‘If you are English why is it then that you cannot speak English?’
“天哪！”达诺特喊道。 “如果你是英国人，为什么你不会说英语？”

And then in a flash it came to him—the man was a mute, possibly a deaf mute.
然后他突然想到——这个人是个哑巴，可能是个聋哑人。

So D’Arnot wrote a message on the bark, in English.
于是达诺特用英语在树皮上写了一条信息。

I am Paul d’Arnot, Lieutenant in the navy of France. I thank you for what you have done for me. You have saved my life, and all that I have is yours. May I ask how it is that one who writes English does not speak it?
我是保罗·达诺特，法国海军中尉。我感谢你为我所做的一切。你救了我的命，我的一切都是你的。请问写英文的人不会说英文怎么办？

Tarzan’s reply filled D’Arnot with still greater wonder:
泰山的回答让达诺特更加惊奇：

I speak only the language of my tribe—the great apes who were Kerchak’s; and a little of the languages of Tantor, the elephant, and Numa, the lion, and of the other folks of the jungle I understand. With a human being I have never spoken, except once with Jane Porter, by signs. This is the first time I have spoken with another of my kind through written words.
我只说我部落的语言——克查克族的巨猿；我还懂得一些大象坦托尔、狮子努玛以及丛林中其他民族的语言。除了与简·波特的一次交流之外，我从未通过手势与人交谈过。这是我第一次通过书面语言与同类交谈。

D’Arnot was mystified. It seemed incredible that there lived upon earth a full-grown man who had never spoken with a fellow man, and still more preposterous that such a one could read and write.
达诺特很困惑。地球上生活着一个从未与同胞交谈过的成年人，这似乎令人难以置信，更荒谬的是，这样的人竟然会读书写字。

He looked again at Tarzan’s message—‘except once, with Jane Porter.’ That was the American girl who had been carried into the jungle by a gorilla.
他又看了看人猿泰山的信息——“除了一次，和简·波特一起。”那是那个被大猩猩带进丛林的美国女孩。

A sudden light commenced to dawn on D’Arnot—this then was the ‘gorilla.’ He seized the pencil and wrote:
达诺特身上突然出现一道曙光——这就是“大猩猩”。他抓起铅笔写道：

Where is Jane Porter?
简·波特在哪里？

And Tarzan replied, below:
泰山回复如下：

Back with her people in the cabin of Tarzan of the Apes.
和她的人一起回到人猿泰山的小屋。

She is not dead then? Where was she? What happened to her?
那她还没死？她在哪里？她怎么了？

She is not dead. She was taken by Terkoz to be his wife; but Tarzan of the Apes took her away from Terkoz and killed him before he could harm her.
她没有死。她被泰尔科兹娶为妻子；但人猿泰山将她从特尔科兹身边带走，并在他伤害她之前杀死了他。

None in all the jungle may face Tarzan of the Apes in battle, and live. I am Tarzan of the Apes—mighty fighter.
整个丛林中没有人能够在与人猿泰山的战斗中存活下来。我是人猿泰山——强大的战士。

D’Arnot wrote:
达诺特写道：

I am glad she is safe. It pains me to write, I will rest a while.
我很高兴她安全了。写的好辛苦，我先休息一下。

And then Tarzan:
然后是泰山：

Yes, rest. When you are well I shall take you back to your people.
是的，休息。等你康复了，我会带你回到你的人民身边。

For many days D’Arnot lay upon his bed of soft ferns. The second day a fever had come and D’Arnot thought that it meant infection and he knew that he would die.
达诺特在柔软的蕨类植物床上躺了很多天。第二天发烧了，达诺特认为这意味着感染，他知道自己会死。

An idea came to him. He wondered why he had not thought of it before.
他想到了一个主意。他想知道为什么他以前没有想到这一点。

He called Tarzan and indicated by signs that he would write, and when Tarzan had fetched the bark and pencil, D’Arnot wrote:
他打电话给泰山，并用手势表示他会写字，当泰山拿来树皮和铅笔时，达诺特写道：

Can you go to my people and lead them here? I will write a message that you may take to them, and they will follow you.
你能去找我的人民并带领他们来这里吗？我会写一条消息，你可以转交给他们，他们就会跟随你。

Tarzan shook his head and taking the bark, wrote:
泰山摇摇头，拿起树皮，写道：

I had thought of that—the first day; but I dared not. The great apes come often to this spot, and if they found you here, wounded and alone, they would kill you.
我曾想到过这一点——第一天；但我不敢。类人猿经常来到这个地方，如果它们发现你在这里受伤且孤身一人，他们就会杀了你。

D’Arnot turned on his side and closed his eyes. He did not wish to die; but he felt that he was going, for the fever was mounting higher and higher. That night he lost consciousness.
达诺特翻身侧身，闭上眼睛。他不想死；他不想死。但他感觉自己要走了，因为发烧越来越高。那天晚上他就失去了知觉。

For three days he was in delirium, and Tarzan sat beside him and bathed his head and hands and washed his wounds.
三天来，他一直处于谵妄状态，泰山坐在他旁边，给他洗澡、洗头、洗手、清洗伤口。

On the fourth day the fever broke as suddenly as it had come, but it left D’Arnot a shadow of his former self, and very weak. Tarzan had to lift him that he might drink from the gourd.
第四天，高烧来得突然，但达诺特却像以前一样，非常虚弱。泰山不得不把他举起来，让他喝葫芦里的水。

The fever had not been the result of infection, as D’Arnot had thought, but one of those that commonly attack whites in the jungles of Africa, and either kill or leave them as suddenly as D’Arnot’s had left him.
发烧并不是达阿诺特所认为的那样，而是由感染引起的，而是非洲丛林中常见的一种感染性疾病，它们要么杀死要么离开他们，就像达诺特的发烧一样突然离开他。

Two days later, D’Arnot was tottering about the amphitheater, Tarzan’s strong arm about him to keep him from falling.
两天后，达诺特在圆形剧场里摇摇晃晃，泰山有力的手臂搂着他，防止他跌倒。

They sat beneath the shade of a great tree, and Tarzan found some smooth bark that they might converse.
他们坐在一棵大树的树荫下，泰山找到了一些光滑的树皮让他们可以交谈。

D’Arnot wrote the first message:
达诺特写下了第一条消息：

What can I do to repay you for all that you have done for me?
我该拿什么来报答你为我所做的一切呢？

And Tarzan, in reply:
泰山回复道：

Teach me to speak the language of men.
教我说人类的语言。

And so D’Arnot commenced at once, pointing out familiar objects and repeating their names in French, for he thought that it would be easier to teach this man his own language, since he understood it himself best of all.
于是达诺特立即开始，指出熟悉的物体并用法语重复它们的名字，因为他认为教这个人自己的语言会更容易，因为他自己最了解它。

It meant nothing to Tarzan, of course, for he could not tell one language from another, so when he pointed to the word man which he had printed upon a piece of bark he learned from D’Arnot that it was pronounced HOMME, and in the same way he was taught to pronounce ape, SINGE and tree, ARBRE.
当然，这对泰山来说毫无意义，因为他无法区分一种语言和另一种语言，所以当他指着他印在一块树皮上的“man”这个词时，他从达诺那里得知它的发音是“HOMME”，而在就像他被教导发音“ape”（“SINGE”）和“tree”（ARBRE）一样。

He was a most eager student, and in two more days had mastered so much French that he could speak little sentences such as: ‘That is a tree,’ ‘this is grass,’ ‘I am hungry,’ and the like, but D’Arnot found that it was difficult to teach him the French construction upon a foundation of English.
他是一个非常热心的学生，两天后他就掌握了如此多的法语，以至于他可以说一些小句子，例如：“那是一棵树”，“这是草”，“我饿了”之类的，但是达诺特发现，在英语的基础上教他法语的结构是很困难的。

The Frenchman wrote little lessons for him in English and had Tarzan repeat them in French, but as a literal translation was usually very poor French Tarzan was often confused.
法国人用英语为他写了一些课程，并让泰山用法语重复了这些课程，但由于直译通常很差，法语泰山经常被混淆。

D’Arnot realized now that he had made a mistake, but it seemed too late to go back and do it all over again and force Tarzan to unlearn all that he had learned, especially as they were rapidly approaching a point where they would be able to converse.
达诺特现在意识到他犯了一个错误，但现在似乎已经太晚了，无法回去重来，迫使泰山忘记他所学到的一切，特别是当他们正在迅速接近他们能够做到的地步时。交谈。

On the third day after the fever broke Tarzan wrote a message asking D’Arnot if he felt strong enough to be carried back to the cabin. Tarzan was as anxious to go as D’Arnot, for he longed to see Jane again.
发烧后的第三天，泰山写了一条信息，询问达诺特是否感觉足够强壮，可以被带回小屋。泰山和达诺特一样急于去，因为他渴望再次见到简。

It had been hard for him to remain with the Frenchman all these days for that very reason, and that he had unselfishly done so spoke more glowingly of his nobility of character than even did his rescuing the French officer from Mbonga’s clutches.
正是因为这个原因，这些天他一直很难和法国人待在一起，而他无私地这样做，比他从姆邦加手中救出法国军官更能体现出他的高贵品格。

D’Arnot, only too willing to attempt the journey, wrote:
达诺特非常愿意尝试这一旅程，他写道：

But you cannot carry me all the distance through this tangled forest.
但你无法带着我穿越这片错综复杂的森林。

Tarzan laughed.
泰山笑了。

‘MAIS OUI,’ he said, and D’Arnot laughed aloud to hear the phrase that he used so often glide from Tarzan’s tongue.
“MAIS OUI，”他说，达诺特听到泰山从舌头上滑过这句话时放声大笑。

So they set out, D’Arnot marveling as had Clayton and Jane at the wondrous strength and agility of the apeman.
于是他们出发了，达诺特像克莱顿和简一样惊叹于猿人的惊人力量和敏捷性。

Mid-afternoon brought them to the clearing, and as Tarzan dropped to earth from the branches of the last tree his heart leaped and bounded against his ribs in anticipation of seeing Jane so soon again.
下午三点左右，他们来到了空地，当泰山从最后一棵树的树枝上掉到地上时，他的心在肋骨上跳动，期待很快就能再次见到简。

No one was in sight outside the cabin, and D’Arnot was perplexed to note that neither the cruiser nor the Arrow was at anchor in the bay.
船舱外看不到任何人，达诺特困惑地发现巡洋舰和箭号都没有停泊在海湾里。

An atmosphere of loneliness pervaded the spot, which caught suddenly at both men as they strode toward the cabin.
现场弥漫着一种孤独的气氛，当两人大步走向小屋时，这种气氛突然笼罩在两人身上。

Neither spoke, yet both knew before they opened the closed door what they would find beyond.
两人都没有说话，但在打开紧闭的门之前，两人都知道他们会在门外发现什么。

Tarzan lifted the latch and pushed the great door in upon its wooden hinges. It was as they had feared. The cabin was deserted.
泰山抬起门闩，用木铰链将大门推了进去。正如他们所担心的那样。小屋里空无一人。

The men turned and looked at one another. D’Arnot knew that his people thought him dead; but Tarzan thought only of the woman who had kissed him in love and now had fled from him while he was serving one of her people.
男人们转过身来，互相看了一眼。达诺特知道他的人民认为他已经死了。但泰山只想到那个曾经深爱着他的女人，而现在，当他为她的一个人民服务时，她却逃离了他。

A great bitterness rose in his heart. He would go away, far into the jungle and join his tribe. Never would he see one of his own kind again, nor could he bear the thought of returning to the cabin. He would leave that forever behind him with the great hopes he had nursed there of finding his own race and becoming a man among men.
他心中升起一股巨大的苦涩。他会离开，深入丛林，加入他的部落。他再也见不到自己的同类了，也无法忍受回到小屋的想法。他将永远把这一切抛在脑后，带着他在那里怀有的伟大希望，找到自己的种族，成为人类中的一员。

And the Frenchman? D’Arnot? What of him? He could get along as Tarzan had. Tarzan did not want to see him more. He wanted to get away from everything that might remind him of Jane.
那法国人呢？达诺特？他呢？他可以像泰山那样相处。泰山不想再见到他了。他想远离一切可能让他想起简的事物。

As Tarzan stood upon the threshold brooding, D’Arnot had entered the cabin. Many comforts he saw that had been left behind. He recognized numerous articles from the cruiser —a camp oven, some kitchen utensils, a rifle and many rounds of ammunition, canned foods, blankets, two chairs and a cot—and several books and periodicals, mostly American.
当泰山站在门槛上沉思时，达诺特已经走进了小屋。他看到许多安慰都被抛在了身后。他认出了巡洋舰上的许多物品——一个露营烤箱、一些厨房用具、一支步枪和多发弹药、罐头食品、毯子、两把椅子和一张婴儿床——以及几本书和期刊，大部分是美国的。

‘They must intend returning,’ thought D’Arnot.
“他们肯定打算回来，”达诺特想。

He walked over to the table that John Clayton had built so many years before to serve as a desk, and on it he saw two notes addressed to Tarzan of the Apes.
他走到约翰·克莱顿多年前建造的一张桌子前，桌上有两张写给人猿泰山的字条。

One was in a strong masculine hand and was unsealed. The other, in a woman’s hand, was sealed.
其中一颗握在一只强有力的男性手中，并且已被解封。另一个，在一个女人的手里，被封印了。

‘Here are two messages for you, Tarzan of the Apes,’ cried D’Arnot, turning toward the door; but his companion was not there.
“人猿泰山，这里有两条信息给你，”达诺特转身向门口喊道。但他的同伴并不在那里。

D’Arnot walked to the door and looked out. Tarzan was nowhere in sight. He called aloud but there was no response.
达诺特走到门口向外张望。泰山却不见踪影。他大声呼喊，但没有任何回应。

‘MON DIEU!’ exclaimed D’Arnot, ‘he has left me. I feel it. He has gone back into his jungle and left me here alone.’
“我的天！”达诺特喊道，“他离开了我。”我感觉到了。他回到了丛林，把我一个人留在这里。

And then he remembered the look on Tarzan’s face when they had discovered that the cabin was empty—such a look as the hunter sees in the eyes of the wounded deer he has wantonly brought down.
然后他想起了当他们发现小屋是空的时泰山脸上的表情——就像猎人在被他肆意打倒的受伤鹿的眼睛里看到的那样。

The man had been hard hit—D’Arnot realized it now— but why? He could not understand.
这个人受到了沉重的打击——达诺特现在意识到了——但为什么呢？他无法理解。

The Frenchman looked about him. The loneliness and the horror of the place commenced to get on his nerves—already weakened by the ordeal of suffering and sickness he had passed through.
法国人环顾四周。这个地方的孤独和恐怖开始让他心烦意乱——他所经历的痛苦和疾病的折磨已经使他的精神变得脆弱了。

To be left here alone beside this awful jungle—never to hear a human voice or see a human face—in constant dread of savage beasts and more terribly savage men—a prey to solitude and hopelessness. It was awful.
被独自留在这片可怕的丛林旁边——永远听不到人的声音，也看不到人的脸——不断地害怕野蛮的野兽和更可怕的野蛮人——成为孤独和绝望的牺牲品。太糟糕了。

And far to the east Tarzan of the Apes was speeding through the middle terrace back to his tribe. Never had he traveled with such reckless speed. He felt that he was running away from himself—that by hurtling through the forest like a frightened squirrel he was escaping from his own thoughts. But no matter how fast he went he found them always with him.
远在东边的猿人泰山正疾驰穿过中间的平台回到他的部落。他从来没有以如此鲁莽的速度行驶过。他觉得自己正在逃避自己——像一只受惊的松鼠一样冲过森林，他是在逃避自己的思想。但无论他走得多快，他发现它们总是和他在一起。

He passed above the sinuous body of Sabor, the lioness, going in the opposite direction—toward the cabin, thought Tarzan.
他从母狮萨博尔蜿蜒的身体上方经过，朝相反的方向走去——朝小屋走去，泰山想。

What could D’Arnot do against Sabor—or if Bolgani, the gorilla, should come upon him—or Numa, the lion, or cruel Sheeta?
达诺特能对萨博尔做什么——或者如果大猩猩博尔加尼袭击他——或者狮子努玛，或者残忍的希塔呢？

Tarzan paused in his flight.
泰山在飞行中停了下来。

‘What are you, Tarzan?’ he asked aloud. ‘An ape or a man?’
“你是谁，泰山？”他大声问道。 “猿还是人？”

‘If you are an ape you will do as the apes would do— leave one of your kind to die in the jungle if it suited your whim to go elsewhere.
“如果你是一只猿猴，你就会像猿猴一样做——如果你一时兴起去别的地方，就让你的同类在丛林中死去。”

‘If you are a man, you will return to protect your kind. You will not run away from one of your own people, because one of them has run away from you.’
‘如果你是一个男人，你就会回来保护你的同类。你不会逃离自己的人民，因为他们中的一个人已经逃离了你。

D’Arnot closed the cabin door. He was very nervous. Even brave men, and D’Arnot was a brave man, are sometimes frightened by solitude.
达诺特关上了舱门。他很紧张。即使是勇敢的人，达诺特就是一个勇敢的人，有时也会害怕孤独。

He loaded one of the rifles and placed it within easy reach. Then he went to the desk and took up the unsealed letter addressed to Tarzan.
他给其中一支步枪装上子弹，并将其放在触手可及的地方。然后他走到办公桌前，拿起那封未密封的写给泰山的信。

Possibly it contained word that his people had but left the beach temporarily. He felt that it would be no breach of ethics to read this letter, so he took the enclosure from the envelope and read:
可能其中包含他的族人暂时离开海滩的消息。他觉得读这封信并不会违反道德，于是他从信封中取出附文，读道：

TO TARZAN OF THE APES:
致《人猿泰山》：

We thank you for the use of your cabin, and are sorry that you did not permit us the pleasure of seeing and thanking you in person.
我们感谢您使用您的小屋，但很抱歉您不允许我们有幸见到您并亲自向您表示感谢。

We have harmed nothing, but have left many things for you which may add to your comfort and safety here in your lonely home.
我们没有伤害任何东西，但为您留下了许多东西，这些东西可能会增加您在孤独的家里的舒适和安全。

If you know the strange white man who saved our lives so many times, and brought us food, and if you can converse with him, thank him, also, for his kindness.
如果你认识那个多次拯救我们生命、给我们带来食物的陌生白人，如果你能与他交谈，也感谢他的好意。

We sail within the hour, never to return; but we wish you and that other jungle friend to know that we shall always thank you for what you did for strangers on your shore, and that we should have done infinitely more to reward you both had you given us the opportunity. Very respectfully, WM. CECIL CLAYTON.
我们在一小时内启航，不再返回；但我们希望你和另一位丛林朋友知​​道，我们将永远感谢你们为岸上的陌生人所做的一切，如果你们给我们机会，我们应该做更多的事情来回报你们俩。非常尊敬，WM。塞西尔·克莱顿。

‘‘Never to return,’’ muttered D’Arnot, and threw himself face downward upon the cot.
“再也回不来了。”达诺特低声说道，然后脸朝下倒在床上。

An hour later he started up listening. Something was at the door trying to enter.
一个小时后，他开始倾听。有东西在门口试图进入。

D’Arnot reached for the loaded rifle and placed it to his shoulder.
达诺特伸手拿起装满子弹的步枪，把它放在肩上。

Dusk was falling, and the interior of the cabin was very dark; but the man could see the latch moving from its place.
暮色降临，船舱内一片漆黑。但那人可以看到门闩从原来的位置移开。

He felt his hair rising upon his scalp.
他感觉头发直立在头皮上。

Gently the door opened until a thin crack showed something standing just beyond.
门轻轻地开了，直到一条细缝露出了门外站着的东西。

D’Arnot sighted along the blue barrel at the crack of the door—and then he pulled the trigger.
达诺特顺着蓝色枪管瞄准了门缝，然后扣动了扳机。

Chapter 24
第24章


Lost Treasure
失落的宝藏

When the expedition returned, following their fruitless endeavor to succor D’Arnot, Captain Dufranne was anxious to steam away as quickly as possible, and all save Jane had acquiesced.
当探险队试图营救达诺特但毫无结果后返回时，杜弗兰船长急于尽快离开，除了简之外，所有人都默许了。

‘No,’ she said, determinedly, ‘I shall not go, nor should you, for there are two friends in that jungle who will come out of it some day expecting to find us awaiting them.
“不，”她坚决地说，“我不会去，你也不应该去，因为那片丛林里有两个朋友，有一天他们会从那里出来，期待着我们在等他们。

‘Your officer, Captain Dufranne, is one of them, and the forest man who has saved the lives of every member of my father’s party is the other.
“你的军官杜弗兰上尉就是其中之一，而拯救了我父亲队伍中每一位成员生命的森林人就是另一个。

‘He left me at the edge of the jungle two days ago to hasten to the aid of my father and Mr. Clayton, as he thought, and he has stayed to rescue Lieutenant D’Arnot; of that you may be sure.
“两天前，他把我留在丛林边缘，如他所想，是为了赶去援助我的父亲和克莱顿先生，而他留下来营救达诺特中尉；你可能确信这一点。

‘Had he been too late to be of service to the lieutenant he would have been back before now—the fact that he is not back is sufficient proof to me that he is delayed because Lieutenant D’Arnot is wounded, or he has had to follow his captors further than the village which your sailors attacked.’
“如果他来得太晚，无法为中尉提供帮助，他早就回来了——他没有回来这一事实对我来说就足以证明他被耽搁了，因为达诺特中尉受伤了，或者他不得不跟随他的俘虏，比你的水手袭击的村庄更远。

‘But poor D’Arnot’s uniform and all his belongings were found in that village, Miss Porter,’ argued the captain, ‘and the natives showed great excitement when questioned as to the white man’s fate.’
“但是可怜的达诺特的制服和他的所有物品都在那个村庄里被发现了，波特小姐，”船长争辩道，“当当地人问及白人的命运时，他们表现出了极大的兴奋。”

‘Yes, Captain, but they did not admit that he was dead and as for his clothes and accouterments being in their possession—why more civilized peoples than these poor savage negroes strip their prisoners of every article of value whether they intend killing them or not.
“是的，上尉，但他们不承认他已经死了，至于他的衣服和装备都在他们手中——为什么比这些可怜的野蛮黑人更文明的人会剥夺囚犯的每一件有价值的物品，无论他们是否打算杀死他们。

‘Even the soldiers of my own dear South looted not only the living but the dead. It is strong circumstantial evidence, I will admit, but it is not positive proof.’
“即使是我亲爱的南方的士兵，不仅掠夺生者，还掠夺死者。我承认，这是强有力的间接证据，但它不是积极的证据。”

‘Possibly your forest man, himself was captured or killed by the savages,’ suggested Captain Dufranne.
“可能是你们的森林人，他自己被野蛮人俘虏或杀害了，”杜弗兰上尉建议道。

The girl laughed.
女孩笑了。

‘You do not know him,’ she replied, a little thrill of pride setting her nerves a-tingle at the thought that she spoke of her own.
“你不认识他，”她回答道，一想到她说的是自己的事，一丝自豪感就让她的神经感到刺痛。

‘I admit that he would be worth waiting for, this superman of yours,’ laughed the captain. ‘I most certainly should like to see him.’
“我承认他值得等待，你这个超人。”船长笑道。 “我当然很想见他。”

‘Then wait for him, my dear captain,’ urged the girl, ‘for I intend doing so.’
“那就等他吧，我亲爱的船长，”女孩催促道，“因为我打算这么做。”

The Frenchman would have been a very much surprised man could he have interpreted the true meaning of the girl’s words.
如果法国人能够理解女孩的话的真正含义，他一定会感到非常惊讶。

They had been walking from the beach toward the cabin as they talked, and now they joined a little group sitting on camp stools in the shade of a great tree beside the cabin.
他们一边说话，一边从海滩朝小屋走去，现在他们加入了一小群人，坐在小屋旁边一棵大树荫下的露营凳上。

Professor Porter was there, and Mr. Philander and Clayton, with Lieutenant Charpentier and two of his brother officers, while Esmeralda hovered in the background, ever and anon venturing opinions and comments with the freedom of an old and much-indulged family servant.
波特教授也在场，菲兰德先生、克莱顿先生、卡彭蒂埃中尉和他的两名兄弟军官也在场，而埃斯梅拉达则在幕后徘徊，时不时地以一位年长而受宠爱的家庭仆人的自由来发表意见和评论。

The officers arose and saluted as their superior approached, and Clayton surrendered his camp stool to Jane.
当上级走近时，军官们起身敬礼，克莱顿将他的行军凳交给了简。

‘We were just discussing poor Paul’s fate,’ said Captain Dufranne. ‘Miss Porter insists that we have no absolute proof of his death—nor have we. And on the other hand she maintains that the continued absence of your omnipotent jungle friend indicates that D’Arnot is still in need of his services, either because he is wounded, or still is a prisoner in a more distant native village.’
“我们只是在讨论可怜的保罗的命运，”杜弗兰上尉说。 “波特小姐坚称我们没有他死亡的绝对证据——我们也没有。另一方面，她坚持认为，你无所不能的丛林朋友的持续缺席表明达诺特仍然需要他的服务，要么因为他受伤了，要么仍然是一个更遥远的家乡的囚犯。

‘It has been suggested,’ ventured Lieutenant Charpentier, ‘that the wild man may have been a member of the tribe of blacks who attacked our party—that he was hastening to aid THEM—his own people.’
“有人认为，”卡彭蒂埃中尉大胆地说，“那个野人可能是袭击我们队伍的黑人部落的成员——他正急忙去援助他们——他自己的人民。”

Jane shot a quick glance at Clayton.
简快速地看了克莱顿一眼。

‘It seems vastly more reasonable,’ said Professor Porter.
“这似乎更合理，”波特教授说。

‘I do not agree with you,’ objected Mr. Philander. ‘He had ample opportunity to harm us himself, or to lead his people against us. Instead, during our long residence here, he has been uniformly consistent in his role of protector and provider.’
“我不同意你的观点，”菲兰德先生反对道。 “他有足够的机会亲自伤害我们，或者带领他的人民反对我们。相反，在我们长期居住在这里期间，他始终如一地扮演着保护者和提供者的角色。

‘That is true,’ interjected Clayton, ‘yet we must not overlook the fact that except for himself the only human beings within hundreds of miles are savage cannibals. He was armed precisely as are they, which indicates that he has maintained relations of some nature with them, and the fact that he is but one against possibly thousands suggests that these relations could scarcely have been other than friendly.’
“确实如此，”克莱顿插话道，“但我们绝不能忽视这样一个事实：除了他自己之外，方圆数百英里内唯一的人类都是野蛮的食人者。他的武装与他们一模一样，这表明他与他们保持着某种性质的关系，而他只是可能成千上万的人中的一个这一事实表明，这些关系不可能不是友好的。

‘It seems improbable then that he is not connected with them,’ remarked the captain; ‘possibly a member of this tribe.’
“看来他与他们没有联系，”船长说道。 “可能是这个部落的成员。”

‘Otherwise,’ added another of the officers, ‘how could he have lived a sufficient length of time among the savage denizens of the jungle, brute and human, to have become proficient in woodcraft, or in the use of African weapons.’
“否则，”另一名军官补充道，“他怎么可能在丛林中的野蛮居民、野蛮人和人类中生活了足够长的时间，以至于精通林业或使用非洲武器。”

‘You are judging him according to your own standards, gentlemen,’ said Jane. ‘An ordinary white man such as any of you—pardon me, I did not mean just that—rather, a white man above the ordinary in physique and intelligence could never, I grant you, have lived a year alone and naked in this tropical jungle; but this man not only surpasses the average white man in strength and agility, but as far transcends our trained athletes and ‘strong men’ as they surpass a day-old babe; and his courage and ferocity in battle are those of the wild beast.’
“先生们，你们是根据你们自己的标准来评判他的，”简说。 “一个普通的白人，比如你们中的任何一个人——请原谅我，我的意思不仅仅是这个——相反，一个在体格和智力上都超乎常人的白人，我向你保证，绝不会在这个热带地区独自赤身裸体地生活一年。丛林;但这个人不仅在力量和敏捷性上超越了一般白人，而且远远超越了我们训练有素的运动员和“大力士”，就像他们超越了刚出生一天的婴儿一样；他在战斗中的勇气和凶猛就像野兽一样。

‘He has certainly won a loyal champion, Miss Porter,’ said Captain Dufranne, laughing. ‘I am sure that there be none of us here but would willingly face death a hundred times in its most terrifying forms to deserve the tributes of one even half so loyal—or so beautiful.’
“他确实赢得了一位忠诚的冠军，波特小姐，”杜弗兰上尉笑着说。 “我相信，我们这里没有人愿意以最可怕的形式面对一百次死亡，只为值得得到哪怕一半如此忠诚或如此美丽的人的致敬。”

‘You would not wonder that I defend him,’ said the girl, ‘could you have seen him as I saw him, battling in my behalf with that huge hairy brute.
“你不会奇怪我为他辩护，”女孩说，“如果你看到他就像我看到他一样，为我与那个巨大的毛茸茸的野兽战斗。

‘Could you have seen him charge the monster as a bull might charge a grizzly—absolutely without sign of fear or hesitation—you would have believed him more than human.
“如果你看到他像公牛冲向灰熊一样冲向怪物——完全没有恐惧或犹豫的迹象——你会比相信他更相信他。”

‘Could you have seen those mighty muscles knotting under the brown skin—could you have seen them force back those awful fangs—you too would have thought him invincible.
“如果你能看到那些强大的肌肉在棕色皮肤下打结——你能看到它们将那些可怕的尖牙逼回来吗——你也会认为他是无敌的。”

‘And could you have seen the chivalrous treatment which he accorded a strange girl of a strange race, you would feel the same absolute confidence in him that I feel.’
“如果你看到他对一个陌生种族的陌生女孩的侠义对待，你就会像我一样对他有绝对的信心。”

‘You have won your suit, my fair pleader,’ cried the captain. ‘This court finds the defendant not guilty, and the cruiser shall wait a few days longer that he may have an opportunity to come and thank the divine Portia.’
“你赢了，我公平的辩护人，”船长喊道。 “本法庭裁定被告无罪，巡洋舰还得再等几天，以便他有机会前来感谢神圣的波西亚。”

‘For the Lord’s sake honey,’ cried Esmeralda. ‘You all don’t mean to tell ME that you’re going to stay right here in this here land of carnivable animals when you all got the opportunity to escapade on that boat? Don’t you tell me THAT, honey.’
“看在上帝的份上，亲爱的，”埃斯梅拉达喊道。 ‘你们不是故意告诉我，当你们有机会乘那艘船逃亡时，你们会留在这片可食动物的土地上吗？你别告诉我这个，亲爱的。

‘Why, Esmeralda! You should be ashamed of yourself,’ cried Jane. ‘Is this any way to show your gratitude to the man who saved your life twice?’
‘为什么，艾斯梅拉达！你应该为自己感到羞耻，”简哭道。 “你能用这种方式向那个两次救了你命的人表达你的感激之情吗？”

‘Well, Miss Jane, that’s all jest as you say; but that there forest man never did save us to stay here. He done save us so we all could get AWAY from here. I expect he be mighty peevish when he find we ain’t got no more sense than to stay right here after he done give us the chance to get away.
“好吧，简小姐，正如你所说，那只是个玩笑；但那个森林人从来没有救我们留在这里。他救了我们，所以我们都可以离开这里。我预计，当他发现我们在他给我们离开的机会之后，除了留在这里之外没有任何意义时，他会非常暴躁。

‘I hoped I’d never have to sleep in this here geological garden another night and listen to all them lonesome noises that come out of that jumble after dark.’
“我希望我再也不用再睡在这个地质花园里，听着天黑后从混乱中发出的所有孤独的声音了。”

‘I don’t blame you a bit, Esmeralda,’ said Clayton, ‘and you certainly did hit it off right when you called them ‘lonesome’ noises. I never have been able to find the right word for them but that’s it, don’t you know, lonesome noises.’
“我一点也不责怪你，埃斯梅拉达，”克莱顿说，“当你称它们为‘孤独’的声音时，你确实一拍即合。”我一直找不到合适的词来形容它们，但就是这样，你知道吗，孤独的声音。”

‘You and Esmeralda had better go and live on the cruiser,’ said Jane, in fine scorn. ‘What would you think if you HAD to live all of your life in that jungle as our forest man has done?’
“你和埃斯梅拉达最好去那艘巡洋舰上生活。”简轻蔑地说。 “如果你必须像我们的森林人那样在丛林中度过一生，你会怎么想？”

‘I’m afraid I’d be a blooming bounder as a wild man,’ laughed Clayton, ruefully. ‘Those noises at night make the hair on my head bristle. I suppose that I should be ashamed to admit it, but it’s the truth.’
“恐怕我会成为一个野人，”克莱顿悲伤地笑道。 “那些夜晚的噪音让我头发直竖。我想我应该羞于承认这一点，但这是事实。

‘I don’t know about that,’ said Lieutenant Charpentier. ‘I never thought much about fear and that sort of thing—never tried to determine whether I was a coward or brave man; but the other night as we lay in the jungle there after poor D’Arnot was taken, and those jungle noises rose and fell around us I began to think that I was a coward indeed. It was not the roaring and growling of the big beasts that affected me so much as it was the stealthy noises—the ones that you heard suddenly close by and then listened vainly for a repetition of—the unaccountable sounds as of a great body moving almost noiselessly, and the knowledge that you didn’t KNOW how close it was, or whether it were creeping closer after you ceased to hear it? It was those noises—and the eyes.
“我不知道，”卡彭蒂埃中尉说。 “我从来没有想过太多关于恐惧之类的事情——从来没有试图确定我是一个懦夫还是勇敢的人;但那天晚上，当可怜的达诺特被抓走后，我们躺在丛林里，丛林里的噪音在我们周围时起时落，我开始觉得自己确实是个胆小鬼。对我影响最大的不是那些大型野兽的咆哮和咆哮，而是那些隐秘的声音——你突然听到它们在附近，然后徒劳地听着重复——那种莫名其妙的声音，就像一个巨大的身体几乎在移动一样。无声无息，并且知道你不知道它有多近，或者在你不再听到它之后它是否正在悄悄靠近？是那些声音——还有眼睛。

‘MON DIEU! I shall see them in the dark forever—the eyes that you see, and those that you don’t see, but feel—ah, they are the worst.’
‘我的上帝！我将永远在黑暗中看到它们——你看到的眼睛，以及那些你看不见但感觉的眼睛——啊，它们是最糟糕的。

All were silent for a moment, and then Jane spoke.
所有人都沉默了片刻，然后简开口了。

‘And he is out there,’ she said, in an awe-hushed whisper. ‘Those eyes will be glaring at him to-night, and at your comrade Lieutenant D’Arnot. Can you leave them, gentlemen, without at least rendering them the passive succor which remaining here a few days longer might insure them?’
“他就在那里，”她用敬畏的声音低声说道。 “今晚，那些眼睛会盯着他，还有你的战友达诺特中尉。先生们，您能离开他们吗，至少不给他们提供被动的援助，因为多留在这里几天可能会确保他们的安全？

‘Tut, tut, child,’ said Professor Porter. ‘Captain Dufranne is willing to remain, and for my part I am perfectly willing, perfectly willing—as I always have been to humor your childish whims.’
“啧，啧，孩子，”波特教授说。 “杜弗兰船长愿意留下来，就我而言，我完全愿意，完全愿意——就像我一直以来迎合你幼稚的想法一样。”

‘We can utilize the morrow in recovering the chest, Professor,’ suggested Mr. Philander.
“我们可以利用明天来恢复箱子，教授，”菲兰德先生建议道。

‘Quite so, quite so, Mr. Philander, I had almost forgotten the treasure,’ exclaimed Professor Porter. ‘Possibly we can borrow some men from Captain Dufranne to assist us, and one of the prisoners to point out the location of the chest.’
“是的，是的，菲兰德先生，我差点忘了那件宝藏。”波特教授惊呼道。 “也许我们可以向杜弗兰上尉借一些人来协助我们，并从一名囚犯那里借来指出箱子的位置。”

‘Most assuredly, my dear Professor, we are all yours to command,’ said the captain.
“毫无疑问，我亲爱的教授，我们都是您的指挥，”船长说道。

And so it was arranged that on the next day Lieutenant Charpentier was to take a detail of ten men, and one of the mutineers of the Arrow as a guide, and unearth the treasure; and that the cruiser would remain for a full week in the little harbor. At the end of that time it was to be assumed that D’Arnot was truly dead, and that the forest man would not return while they remained. Then the two vessels were to leave with all the party.
因此，第二天，卡彭蒂埃中尉将率领一支十人小队，以及一名箭号叛乱分子作为向导，挖掘宝藏。巡洋舰将在小港口停留整整一周。在那段时间结束时，人们认为达诺特确实死了，而当他们留下时，森林人就不会回来。然后两艘船将与大家一起离开。

Professor Porter did not accompany the treasure-seekers on the following day, but when he saw them returning empty-handed toward noon, he hastened forward to meet them —his usual preoccupied indifference entirely vanished, and in its place a nervous and excited manner.
第二天，波特教授没有陪伴寻宝者，但当他看到他们空手而归时，中午时分，他赶紧上前去迎接——他平时全神贯注的冷漠完全消失了，取而代之的是紧张而兴奋的神态。

‘Where is the treasure?’ he cried to Clayton, while yet a hundred feet separated them.
“宝藏在哪里？”他对克莱顿喊道，此时他们之间还有一百英尺的距离。

Clayton shook his head.
克莱顿摇摇头。

‘Gone,’ he said, as he neared the professor.
“走了，”他走近教授时说道。

‘Gone! It cannot be. Who could have taken it?’ cried Professor Porter.
‘走了！它不可能是。谁能拿走它？”波特教授喊道。

‘God only knows, Professor,’ replied Clayton. ‘We might have thought the fellow who guided us was lying about the location, but his surprise and consternation on finding no chest beneath the body of the murdered Snipes were too real to be feigned. And then our spades showed us that SOMETHING had been buried beneath the corpse, for a hole had been there and it had been filled with loose earth.’
“只有上帝知道，教授，”克莱顿回答道。 “我们可能以为引导我们的那个人在位置上撒了谎，但当他在被谋杀的鹬尸体下面没有发现箱子时，他的惊讶和惊愕实在是太真实了，无法伪装。然后我们的铁锹向我们展示了尸体下面埋着一些东西，因为那里有一个洞，里面填满了松散的泥土。

‘But who could have taken it?’ repeated Professor Porter.
“但是谁能拿走它呢？”波特教授重复道。

‘Suspicion might naturally fall on the men of the cruiser,’ said Lieutenant Charpentier, ‘but for the fact that sub-lieutenant Janviers here assures me that no men have had shore leave—that none has been on shore since we anchored here except under command of an officer. I do not know that you would suspect our men, but I am glad that there is now no chance for suspicion to fall on them,’ he concluded.
“怀疑自然会落在巡洋舰上的人身上，”卡彭蒂埃中尉说，“但事实上，詹维尔斯中尉向我保证，没有人上岸休假——自从我们在这里抛锚以来，没有人上过岸，除了在军官的指挥。我不知道你会怀疑我们的人，但我很高兴现在没有机会怀疑他们，”他总结道。

‘It would never have occurred to me to suspect the men to whom we owe so much,’ replied Professor Porter, graciously. ‘I would as soon suspect my dear Clayton here, or Mr. Philander.’
“我从来没有想过要怀疑那些我们对他们如此感激的人，”波特教授和蔼地回答道。 “我会尽快怀疑我亲爱的克莱顿，或者菲兰德先生。”

The Frenchmen smiled, both officers and sailors. It was plain to see that a burden had been lifted from their minds.
法国人微笑着，无论是军官还是水手。很明显，他们心中的负担已经被卸下了。

‘The treasure has been gone for some time,’ continued Clayton. ‘In fact the body fell apart as we lifted it, which indicates that whoever removed the treasure did so while the corpse was still fresh, for it was intact when we first uncovered it.’
“宝藏已经消失有一段时间了，”克莱顿继续说道。 “事实上，当我们抬起它时，尸体就散架了，这表明无论是谁搬走宝藏，都是在尸体还新鲜的时候进行的，因为当我们第一次发现它时，它是完好无损的。”

‘There must have been several in the party,’ said Jane, who had joined them. ‘You remember that it took four men to carry it.’
“聚会里肯定有好几个人，”加入他们的简说。 “你记得需要四个人才能搬动它。”

‘By jove!’ cried Clayton. ‘That’s right. It must have been done by a party of blacks. Probably one of them saw the men bury the chest and then returned immediately after with a party of his friends, and carried it off.’
“天哪！”克莱顿喊道。 '这是正确的。这一定是一群黑人干的。可能其中一个人看到这些人埋了箱子，然后立即带着一群朋友回来，把它带走了。

‘Speculation is futile,’ said Professor Porter sadly. ‘The chest is gone. We shall never see it again, nor the treasure that was in it.’
“猜测是徒劳的，”波特教授悲伤地说。 ‘胸部不见了。我们再也见不到它了，也见不到里面的宝藏了。”

Only Jane knew what the loss meant to her father, and none there knew what it meant to her.
只有简知道失去父亲对她意味着什么，但没有人知道这对她意味着什么。

Six days later Captain Dufranne announced that they would sail early on the morrow.
六天后，杜弗兰船长宣布他们将于次日一早启航。

Jane would have begged for a further reprieve, had it not been that she too had begun to believe that her forest lover would return no more.
如果不是简也开始相信她的森林恋人不会再回来，她会请求再缓刑一次。

In spite of herself she began to entertain doubts and fears. The reasonableness of the arguments of these disinterested French officers commenced to convince her against her will.
她不由自主地开始产生怀疑和恐惧。这些无私的法国军官的论点的合理性开始让她违背自己的意愿。

That he was a cannibal she would not believe, but that he was an adopted member of some savage tribe at length seemed possible to her.
她不相信他是一个食人者，但她似乎有可能相信他是某个野蛮部落的收养成员。

She would not admit that he could be dead. It was impossible to believe that that perfect body, so filled with triumphant life, could ever cease to harbor the vital spark—as soon believe that immortality were dust.
她不会承认他可能已经死了。令人难以置信的是，那充满胜利生命的完美身体会永远停止蕴藏生命的火花——就像相信不朽只是尘埃一样。

As Jane permitted herself to harbor these thoughts, others equally unwelcome forced themselves upon her.
当简允许自己怀有这些想法时，其他同样不受欢迎的人也强加给了她。

If he belonged to some savage tribe he had a savage wife —a dozen of them perhaps—and wild, half-caste children. The girl shuddered, and when they told her that the cruiser would sail on the morrow she was almost glad.
如果他属于某个野蛮部落，他就会有一个野蛮的妻子——也许有十几个——以及野性的、混血种姓的孩子。女孩浑身发抖，当他们告诉她巡洋舰明天就要启航时，她几乎很高兴。

It was she, though, who suggested that arms, ammunition, supplies and comforts be left behind in the cabin, ostensibly for that intangible personality who had signed himself Tarzan of the Apes, and for D’Arnot should he still be living, but really, she hoped, for her forest god—even though his feet should prove of clay.
不过，是她建议将武器、弹药、补给品和舒适物品留在机舱里，表面上是为了那个给自己签名为人猿泰山的无形人物，也是为了达诺特，他应该还活着，但实际上她希望她的森林之神——尽管他的脚是泥土的。

And at the last minute she left a message for him, to be transmitted by Tarzan of the Apes.
在最后一刻，她给他留下了一条信息，由人猿泰山转达。

She was the last to leave the cabin, returning on some trivial pretext after the others had started for the boat.
她是最后一个离开船舱的，在其他人上船后，她以一些微不足道的借口回来了。

She kneeled down beside the bed in which she had spent so many nights, and offered up a prayer for the safety of her primeval man, and crushing his locket to her lips she murmured:
她跪在她度过了许多个夜晚的床边，为她的原始男人的安全祈祷，并将他的挂坠子捏在唇边，她低声说道：

‘I love you, and because I love you I believe in you. But if I did not believe, still should I love. Had you come back for me, and had there been no other way, I would have gone into the jungle with you—forever.’
‘我爱你，因为我爱你，所以我相信你。但如果我不相信，我还应该去爱。如果你回来找我，如果没有其他办法，我就会和你一起走进丛林——永远。

Chapter 25
第25章


The Outpost of the World
世界前哨站

With the report of his gun D’Arnot saw the door fly open and the figure of a man pitch headlong within onto the cabin floor.
随着枪声的响起，达诺特看到门猛地打开，一个男人的身影一头扎进了船舱地板上。

The Frenchman in his panic raised his gun to fire again into the prostrate form, but suddenly in the half dusk of the open door he saw that the man was white and in another instant realized that he had shot his friend and protector, Tarzan of the Apes.
法国人惊慌失措地举起枪，再次向倒下的人开枪，但突然在敞开的门的半黄昏中，他看到那个人是白人，转眼间他意识到他射杀了他的朋友和保护者，泰山。猿类。

With a cry of anguish D’Arnot sprang to the ape-man’s side, and kneeling, lifted the latter’s head in his arms—calling Tarzan’s name aloud.
达诺特发出一声痛苦的叫声，跳到猿人身边，跪下，将后者的头抱在怀里，大声呼唤泰山的名字。

There was no response, and then D’Arnot placed his ear above the man’s heart. To his joy he heard its steady beating beneath.
没有任何反应，然后达诺特将耳朵贴在男人的心脏上方。令他高兴的是，他听到了下面稳定的敲击声。

Carefully he lifted Tarzan to the cot, and then, after closing and bolting the door, he lighted one of the lamps and examined the wound.
他小心翼翼地将泰山抱到小床上，然后关上门并锁上门，点燃一盏灯检查伤口。

The bullet had struck a glancing blow upon the skull. There was an ugly flesh wound, but no signs of a fracture of the skull.
子弹击中了头骨。身上有一道丑陋的皮肉伤口，但没有头骨骨折的迹象。

D’Arnot breathed a sigh of relief, and went about bathing the blood from Tarzan’s face.
达诺特松了一口气，走过去擦去泰山脸上的血迹。

Soon the cool water revived him, and presently he opened his eyes to look in questioning surprise at D’Arnot.
很快，清凉的水让他苏醒过来，不久他睁开了眼睛，疑惑地惊讶地看着达诺特。

The latter had bound the wound with pieces of cloth, and as he saw that Tarzan had regained consciousness he arose and going to the table wrote a message, which he handed to the ape-man, explaining the terrible mistake he had made and how thankful he was that the wound was not more serious.
后者用布包扎了伤口，当他看到泰山恢复知觉时，他站了起来，走到桌子前写了一条信息，交给了猿人，解释了他犯下的可怕错误，并表示感谢他觉得伤口并没有更严重。

Tarzan, after reading the message, sat on the edge of the couch and laughed.
泰山读完这条信息后，坐在沙发边上笑了。

‘It is nothing,’ he said in French, and then, his vocabulary failing him, he wrote:
“没什么，”他用法语说道，然后，他的词汇量不够了，他写道：

You should have seen what Bolgani did to me, and Kerchak, and Terkoz, before I killed them—then you would laugh at such a little scratch.
在我杀死博尔加尼、克尔恰克和特尔科兹之前，你应该看看他们对他们做了什么——然后你就会嘲笑这么小的划伤。

D’Arnot handed Tarzan the two messages that had been left for him.
达诺特将留给泰山的两条信息交给了他。

Tarzan read the first one through with a look of sorrow on his face. The second one he turned over and over, searching for an opening—he had never seen a sealed envelope before. At length he handed it to D’Arnot.
泰山读完第一封信后，脸上露出悲伤的表情。第二个信封他翻来覆去，寻找一个开口——他以前从未见过密封的信封。最后他把它交给了达诺特。

The Frenchman had been watching him, and knew that Tarzan was puzzled over the envelope. How strange it seemed that to a full-grown white man an envelope was a mystery. D’Arnot opened it and handed the letter back to Tarzan.
法国人一直在看着他，知道泰山对信封感到困惑。对于一个成年白人来说，信封是一个谜，这似乎是多么奇怪。达诺特打开信，将信交还给泰山。

Sitting on a camp stool the ape-man spread the written sheet before him and read:
猿人坐在行军凳上，将写好的纸铺在他面前，读道：

TO TARZAN OF THE APES:
致《人猿泰山》：

Before I leave let me add my thanks to those of Mr. Clayton for the kindness you have shown in permitting us the use of your cabin.
在我离开之前，请允许我向克莱顿先生表示感谢，感谢您允许我们使用您的小屋。

That you never came to make friends with us has been a great regret to us. We should have liked so much to have seen and thanked our host.
你从来没有来和我们交朋友，这对我们来说是一个很大的遗憾。我们应该非常高兴见到并感谢我们的主人。

There is another I should like to thank also, but he did not come back, though I cannot believe that he is dead.
我还要感谢另一个人，但他没有回来，尽管我不敢相信他已经死了。

I do not know his name. He is the great white giant who wore the diamond locket upon his breast.
我不知道他的名字。他是胸前戴着钻石挂坠盒的白色巨人。

If you know him and can speak his language carry my thanks to him, and tell him that I waited seven days for him to return.
如果你认识他并且会说他的语言，请转达我对他的感谢，并告诉他我等了他七天才回来。

Tell him, also, that in my home in America, in the city of Baltimore, there will always be a welcome for him if he cares to come.
还告诉他，在我位于美国巴尔的摩市的家中，如果他愿意来，总会受到欢迎。

I found a note you wrote me lying among the leaves beneath a tree near the cabin. I do not know how you learned to love me, who have never spoken to me, and I am very sorry if it is true, for I have already given my heart to another.
我在小屋附近一棵树下的树叶中发现了一张你给我写的字条。我不知道你是如何学会爱我的，你从来没有跟我说过话，如果这是真的，我很抱歉，因为我已经把我的心交给了另一个人。

But know that I am always your friend, JANE PORTER.
但请记住，我永远是你的朋友，简·波特。

Tarzan sat with gaze fixed upon the floor for nearly an hour. It was evident to him from the notes that they did not know that he and Tarzan of the Apes were one and the same.
泰山盯着地板坐了将近一个小时。从他的笔记中可以明显看出，他们不知道他和人猿泰山是同一个人。

‘I have given my heart to another,’ he repeated over and over again to himself.
“我已经把我的心交给了另一个人，”他一遍又一遍地对自己重复道。

Then she did not love him! How could she have pretended love, and raised him to such a pinnacle of hope only to cast him down to such utter depths of despair!
那她就不爱他了！她怎么可能假装爱，把他捧到希望的顶峰，却又把他推向绝望的深渊！

Maybe her kisses were only signs of friendship. How did he know, who knew nothing of the customs of human beings?
也许她的吻只是友谊的标志。对人类的风俗一无所知的他怎么知道？

Suddenly he arose, and, bidding D’Arnot good night as he had learned to do, threw himself upon the couch of ferns that had been Jane Porter’s.
突然，他站了起来，按照他学会的方式向达诺特道晚安，然后躺在简·波特的蕨类沙发上。

D’Arnot extinguished the lamp, and lay down upon the cot.
达诺特熄灭了灯，躺在床上。

For a week they did little but rest, D’Arnot coaching Tarzan in French. At the end of that time the two men could converse quite easily.
一周以来，他们除了休息之外什么也没做，达诺特用法语指导泰山。到那时，两个人就可以很轻松地交谈了。

One night, as they were sitting within the cabin before retiring, Tarzan turned to D’Arnot.
一天晚上，当他们在休息前坐在小屋里时，泰山转向达诺特。

‘Where is America?’ he said.
“美国在哪里？”他说。

D’Arnot pointed toward the northwest.
达诺特指着西北方向。

‘Many thousands of miles across the ocean,’ he replied. ‘Why?’
“跨越大洋数千英里，”他回答道。 '为什么？'

‘I am going there.’
“我要去那儿。”

D’Arnot shook his head.
达诺特摇摇头。

‘It is impossible, my friend,’ he said.
“这是不可能的，我的朋友，”他说。

Tarzan rose, and, going to one of the cupboards, returned with a well-thumbed geography.
泰山站起来，走到一个橱柜前，带着一本翻遍了的地理知识回来了。

Turning to a map of the world, he said:
他转向世界地图，说道：

‘I have never quite understood all this; explain it to me, please.’
“我从来没有完全理解这一切；请向我解释一下。”

When D’Arnot had done so, showing him that the blue represented all the water on the earth, and the bits of other colors the continents and islands, Tarzan asked him to point out the spot where they now were.
当达诺特这样做时，向他展示蓝色代表地球上所有的水，其他颜色的碎片代表大陆和岛屿，泰山请他指出它们现在所在的位置。

D’Arnot did so.
达诺特这样做了。

‘Now point out America,’ said Tarzan.
“现在指出美国，”泰山说。

And as D’Arnot placed his finger upon North America, Tarzan smiled and laid his palm upon the page, spanning the great ocean that lay between the two continents.
当达诺特将手指放在北美时，泰山微笑着将手掌放在书页上，跨越了两个大陆之间的浩瀚海洋。

‘You see it is not so very far,’ he said; ‘scarce the width of my hand.’
“你看，距离并不远，”他说。 “快到我手掌的宽度了。”

D’Arnot laughed. How could he make the man understand?
达诺特笑了。怎么才能让这个男人明白呢？

Then he took a pencil and made a tiny point upon the shore of Africa.
然后他拿起一支铅笔，在非洲海岸上画了一个小点。

‘This little mark,’ he said, ‘is many times larger upon this map than your cabin is upon the earth. Do you see now how very far it is?’
“地图上的这个小标记，”他说，“比地球上你的小屋大很多倍。”你现在知道有多远了吗？

Tarzan thought for a long time.
泰山想了很久。

‘Do any white men live in Africa?’ he asked.
“非洲有白人居住吗？”他问道。

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘Where are the nearest?’
“最近的在哪里？”

D’Arnot pointed out a spot on the shore just north of them.
达诺特指着他们北边海岸上的一个地方。

‘So close?’ asked Tarzan, in surprise.
“这么近？”泰山惊讶地问道。

‘Yes,’ said D’Arnot; ‘but it is not close.’
“是的，”达诺特说。 “但还差得很远。”

‘Have they big boats to cross the ocean?’
“他们有大船可以横渡海洋吗？”

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘We shall go there to-morrow,’ announced Tarzan.
“我们明天就去那里，”泰山宣布。

Again D’Arnot smiled and shook his head.
达诺特再次微笑着摇了摇头。

‘It is too far. We should die long before we reached them.’
‘太远了。我们应该在到达他们之前就死了。

‘Do you wish to stay here then forever?’ asked Tarzan.
“你想永远留在这里吗？”泰山问道。

‘No,’ said D’Arnot.
“不，”达诺特说。

‘Then we shall start to-morrow. I do not like it here longer. I should rather die than remain here.’
“那么我们明天就开始。我不再喜欢这里了。我宁愿死也不愿留在这里。

‘Well,’ answered D’Arnot, with a shrug, ‘I do not know, my friend, but that I also would rather die than remain here. If you go, I shall go with you.’
“好吧，”达诺特耸耸肩回答道，“我不知道，我的朋友，但我也宁愿死也不愿留在这里。如果你去，我就跟你一起去。

‘It is settled then,’ said Tarzan. ‘I shall start for America to-morrow.’
“那就这么定了，”泰山说道。 “我明天就出发去美国。”

‘How will you get to America without money?’ asked D’Arnot.
“没有钱你怎么去美国？”达诺特问道。

‘What is money?’ inquired Tarzan.
“钱是什么？”泰山问道。

It took a long time to make him understand even imperfectly.
花了很长时间才让他明白，哪怕是不完全明白。

‘How do men get money?’ he asked at last.
“男人怎么赚钱？”他最后问道。

‘They work for it.’
“他们为此而努力。”

‘Very well. I will work for it, then.’
'很好。那我会努力的。

‘No, my friend,’ returned D’Arnot, ‘you need not worry about money, nor need you work for it. I have enough money for two—enough for twenty. Much more than is good for one man and you shall have all you need if ever we reach civilization.’
“不，我的朋友，”达诺特回答道，“你不需要担心钱，也不需要为钱而工作。我的钱足够两个人吃——也够二十个人吃。这对一个人来说远远不止是好的，如果我们达到文明，你将拥有你所需要的一切。

So on the following day they started north along the shore. Each man carrying a rifle and ammunition, beside bedding and some food and cooking utensils.
于是第二天他们就沿着海岸向北出发。每个人都携带步枪和弹药，旁边还有床上用品以及一些食物和炊具。

The latter seemed to Tarzan a most useless encumbrance, so he threw his away.
在泰山看来，后者是最无用的累赘，所以他扔掉了。

‘But you must learn to eat cooked food, my friend,’ remonstrated D’Arnot. ‘No civilized men eat raw flesh.’
“但是你必须学会​​吃煮熟的食物，我的朋友，”达诺特抗议道。 “没有文明人吃生肉。”

‘There will be time enough when I reach civilization,’ said Tarzan. ‘I do not like the things and they only spoil the taste of good meat.’
“当我到达文明世界时，会有足够的时间。”泰山说道。 “我不喜欢这些东西，它们只会破坏好肉的味道。”

For a month they traveled north. Sometimes finding food in plenty and again going hungry for days.
他们向北旅行了一个月。有时找到充足的食物，但又会挨饿好几天。

They saw no signs of natives nor were they molested by wild beasts. Their journey was a miracle of ease.
他们没有看到当地人的踪迹，也没有受到野兽的骚扰。他们的旅程是一个轻松的奇迹。

Tarzan asked questions and learned rapidly. D’Arnot taught him many of the refinements of civilization—even to the use of knife and fork; but sometimes Tarzan would drop them in disgust and grasp his food in his strong brown hands, tearing it with his molars like a wild beast.
泰山提出问题并学得很快。达诺特教给了他许多文明的精髓，甚至包括刀叉的使用。但有时泰山会厌恶地扔掉它们，然后用他强壮的棕色双手抓住食物，像野兽一样用臼齿撕碎它。

Then D’Arnot would expostulate with him, saying:
然后达诺特会劝告他说：

‘You must not eat like a brute, Tarzan, while I am trying to make a gentleman of you. MON DIEU! Gentlemen do not thus—it is terrible.’
“泰山，当我努力让你成为一个绅士时，你不能吃得像个畜生。”天哪！先生们不这样做——这太可怕了。”

Tarzan would grin sheepishly and pick up his knife and fork again, but at heart he hated them.
泰山会不好意思地笑笑，再次拿起刀叉，但内心却讨厌它们。

On the journey he told D’Arnot about the great chest he had seen the sailors bury; of how he had dug it up and carried it to the gathering place of the apes and buried it there.
在旅途中，他向达诺讲述了他看到水手们埋藏的巨大箱子的事；他如何把它挖出来，带到猿猴聚集的地方，然后埋在那里。

‘It must be the treasure chest of Professor Porter,’ said D’Arnot. ‘It is too bad, but of course you did not know.’
“这一定是波特教授的宝箱，”达诺特说。 “这太糟糕了，但你当然不知道。”

Then Tarzan recalled the letter written by Jane to her friend—the one he had stolen when they first came to his cabin, and now he knew what was in the chest and what it meant to Jane.
然后泰山想起了简写给她朋友的信——那封信是他们第一次来到他的小屋时被他偷走的，现在他知道箱子里有什么，也知道这对简意味着什么。

‘To-morrow we shall go back after it,’ he announced to D’Arnot.
“明天我们就回去吧，”他对达诺特宣布。

‘Go back?’ exclaimed D’Arnot. ‘But, my dear fellow, we have now been three weeks upon the march. It would require three more to return to the treasure, and then, with that enormous weight which required, you say, four sailors to carry, it would be months before we had again reached this spot.’
“回去？”达诺特喊道。 “但是，我亲爱的朋友，我们行军已经三个星期了。还需要三个人才能返回宝藏，然后，由于如此巨大的重量，你说需要四名水手才能搬运，我们需要几个月的时间才能再次到达这个地方。

‘It must be done, my friend,’ insisted Tarzan. ‘You may go on toward civilization, and I will return for the treasure. I can go very much faster alone.’
“必须这么做，我的朋友，”泰山坚持道。 ‘你们可以继续走向文明，我会回来取宝藏。我一个人可以走得更快。

‘I have a better plan, Tarzan,’ exclaimed D’Arnot. ‘We shall go on together to the nearest settlement, and there we will charter a boat and sail back down the coast for the treasure and so transport it easily. That will be safer and quicker and also not require us to be separated. What do you think of that plan?’
“我有一个更好的计划，泰山，”达诺特喊道。 “我们将一起前往最近的定居点，在那里我们将租一艘船，沿着海岸航行返回宝藏，这样就可以轻松运输它。这样会更安全、更快捷，而且不需要我们分开。你觉得这个计划怎么样？

‘Very well,’ said Tarzan. ‘The treasure will be there whenever we go for it; and while I could fetch it now, and catch up with you in a moon or two, I shall feel safer for you to know that you are not alone on the trail. When I see how helpless you are, D’Arnot, I often wonder how the human race has escaped annihilation all these ages which you tell me about. Why, Sabor, single handed, could exterminate a thousand of you.’
“很好，”泰山说。 “只要我们去寻找，宝藏就会在那里；虽然我现在就可以取到它，一两个月后就能追上你，但我会让你感到更安全，因为你知道你在路上并不孤单。达诺特，当我看到你是多么无助时，我经常想知道你告诉我的这些年来，人类是如何逃脱毁灭的。为什么，萨博尔单枪匹马就能消灭你们一千人。

D’Arnot laughed.
达诺特笑了。

‘You will think more highly of your genus when you have seen its armies and navies, its great cities, and its mighty engineering works. Then you will realize that it is mind, and not muscle, that makes the human animal greater than the mighty beasts of your jungle.
“当你看到了你的属国的陆军和海军、伟大的城市和强大的工程作品时，你会对你的属国产生更高的评价。”然后你就会意识到，是心灵，而不是肌肉，使人类动物比丛林中强大的野兽更伟大。

‘Alone and unarmed, a single man is no match for any of the larger beasts; but if ten men were together, they would combine their wits and their muscles against their savage enemies, while the beasts, being unable to reason, would never think of combining against the men. Otherwise, Tarzan of the Apes, how long would you have lasted in the savage wilderness?’
“独自一人且手无寸铁，一个人无法与任何体型较大的野兽匹敌；但如果十个人在一起，他们就会用自己的智慧和肌肉来对抗野蛮的敌人，而野兽则无法推理，永远不会想到联合起来对抗人类。否则，人猿泰山，你能在蛮荒中坚持多久？

‘You are right, D’Arnot,’ replied Tarzan, ‘for if Kerchak had come to Tublat’s aid that night at the Dum-Dum, there would have been an end of me. But Kerchak could never think far enough ahead to take advantage of any such opportunity. Even Kala, my mother, could never plan ahead. She simply ate what she needed when she needed it, and if the supply was very scarce, even though she found plenty for several meals, she would never gather any ahead.
“你是对的，达诺特，”泰山回答道，“如果克尔查克那天晚上在达姆达姆来援助图布拉特，我的生命就会完蛋。”但克尔恰克永远无法想得足够远，无法利用任何这样的机会。即使是我的母亲卡拉也永远无法提前计划。她只是需要吃什么就吃什么，如果供应非常紧缺，即使她找到足够的几顿饭，她也永远不会提前收集。

‘I remember that she used to think it very silly of me to burden myself with extra food upon the march, though she was quite glad to eat it with me, if the way chanced to be barren of sustenance.’
“我记得她曾经认为我在行军时给自己增加额外的食物是很愚蠢的，尽管如果路上碰巧没有食物的话，她很乐意和我一起吃。”

‘Then you knew your mother, Tarzan?’ asked D’Arnot, in surprise.
“那么你认识你的母亲，泰山？”达诺特惊讶地问道。

‘Yes. She was a great, fine ape, larger than I, and weighing twice as much.’
'是的。她是一只又大又好的猿猴，比我大，体重是我的两倍。

‘And your father?’ asked D’Arnot.
“你的父亲呢？”达诺特问道。

‘I did not know him. Kala told me he was a white ape, and hairless like myself. I know now that he must have been a white man.’
“我不认识他。卡拉告诉我他是一只白猿，和我一样没有毛。我现在知道他一定是个白人。

D’Arnot looked long and earnestly at his companion.
达诺特认真地看着他的同伴良久。

‘Tarzan,’ he said at length, ‘it is impossible that the ape, Kala, was your mother. If such a thing can be, which I doubt, you would have inherited some of the characteristics of the ape, but you have not—you are pure man, and, I should say, the offspring of highly bred and intelligent parents. Have you not the slightest clue to your past?’
“泰山，”他最后说道，“那只猿猴卡拉不可能是你的母亲。如果真是这样的话——我对此表示怀疑，那么你就会遗传到猿类的一些特征，但你没有——你是纯粹的人，而且，我应该说，你是受过良好教育、聪明的父母的后代。你对自己的过去没有丝毫线索吗？

‘Not the slightest,’ replied Tarzan.
“一点也没有，”泰山回答道。

‘No writings in the cabin that might have told something of the lives of its original inmates?’
“小屋里没有任何文字可以讲述原住民的生活吗？”

‘I have read everything that was in the cabin with the exception of one book which I know now to be written in a language other than English. Possibly you can read it.’
“我读过机舱里的所有东西，除了一本书，我现在知道这本书是用英语以外的语言写的。也许你可以读一下。

Tarzan fished the little black diary from the bottom of his quiver, and handed it to his companion.
泰山从箭袋底部取出那本黑色小日记，递给了他的同伴。

D’Arnot glanced at the title page.
达诺特看了一眼扉页。

‘It is the diary of John Clayton, Lord Greystoke, an English nobleman, and it is written in French,’ he said.
“这是英国贵族格雷斯托克勋爵约翰·克莱顿的日记，是用法语写的，”他说。

Then he proceeded to read the diary that had been written over twenty years before, and which recorded the details of the story which we already know—the story of adventure, hardships and sorrow of John Clayton and his wife Alice, from the day they left England until an hour before he was struck down by Kerchak.
然后他开始读二十多年前写的日记，里面记录了我们已经知道的故事的细节——约翰·克莱顿和他的妻子爱丽丝从离开那天起的冒险、艰辛和悲伤的故事。英格兰直到他被克尔恰克击倒前一个小时。

D’Arnot read aloud. At times his voice broke, and he was forced to stop reading for the pitiful hopelessness that spoke between the lines.
达诺特大声朗读。有时他的声音哽咽，他被迫停止阅读，因为字里行间透露着可怜的绝望。

Occasionally he glanced at Tarzan; but the ape-man sat upon his haunches, like a carven image, his eyes fixed upon the ground.
他偶尔会瞥一眼泰山；但猿人却像雕刻的雕像一样盘坐在地上，眼睛盯着地面。

Only when the little babe was mentioned did the tone of the diary alter from the habitual note of despair which had crept into it by degrees after the first two months upon the shore.
只有当提到小宝贝时，日记的语气才改变了在上岸的头两个月后逐渐渗透到日记中的习惯性绝望的语气。

Then the passages were tinged with a subdued happiness that was even sadder than the rest.
然后，这些段落就染上了一种压抑的幸福感，甚至比其他段落更悲伤。

One entry showed an almost hopeful spirit.
其中一篇文章表现出一种几乎充满希望的精神。

To-day our little boy is six months old. He is sitting in Alice’s lap beside the table where I am writing—a happy, healthy, perfect child.
今天我们的小男孩六个月大了。他坐在我正在写作的桌子旁边爱丽丝的腿上——一个快乐、健康、完美的孩子。

Somehow, even against all reason, I seem to see him a grown man, taking his father’s place in the world—the second John Clayton—and bringing added honors to the house of Greystoke.
不知怎的，尽管有种种理由，我似乎还是看到他成为了一个成年人，取代了他父亲在世界上的地位——第二个约翰·克莱顿——并为格雷斯托克家族带来了更多的荣誉。

There—as though to give my prophecy the weight of his endorsement—he has grabbed my pen in his chubby fists and with his inkbegrimed little fingers has placed the seal of his tiny finger prints upon the page.
在那里——仿佛是为了给我的预言赋予他认可的分量——他用胖乎乎的拳头抓住了我的笔，用沾满墨水的小手指将他小小的指纹印在了纸上。

And there, on the margin of the page, were the partially blurred imprints of four wee fingers and the outer half of the thumb.
在页面的边缘，有四个小手指和拇指外半部分的部分模糊的印记。

When D’Arnot had finished the diary the two men sat in silence for some minutes.
达诺特写完日记后，两人沉默地坐了几分钟。

‘Well! Tarzan of the Apes, what think you?’ asked D’Arnot. ‘Does not this little book clear up the mystery of your parentage?
'出色地！ “人猿泰山，你觉得怎么样？”达诺特问道。 ‘这本小书难道没有解开你的身世之谜吗？

‘Why man, you are Lord Greystoke.’
“老兄，你是格雷斯托克勋爵。”

‘The book speaks of but one child,’ he replied. ‘Its little skeleton lay in the crib, where it died crying for nourishment, from the first time I entered the cabin until Professor Porter’s party buried it, with its father and mother, beside the cabin.
“这本书只提到了一个孩子，”他回答道。 “它的小骨架躺在婴儿床上，从我第一次进入小屋到波特教授一行人将它和它的父母一起埋在小屋旁边，它就在那里哭泣着寻求营养。

‘No, that was the babe the book speaks of—and the mystery of my origin is deeper than before, for I have thought much of late of the possibility of that cabin having been my birthplace. I am afraid that Kala spoke the truth,’ he concluded sadly.
“不，这就是书里提到的那个婴儿——而我的起源之谜比以前更深了，因为我最近一直在想那间小屋可能是我的出生地。我担心卡拉说的是实话。”他悲伤地总结道。

D’Arnot shook his head. He was unconvinced, and in his mind had sprung the determination to prove the correctness of his theory, for he had discovered the key which alone could unlock the mystery, or consign it forever to the realms of the unfathomable.
达诺特摇摇头。他不相信，心中萌生了证明自己理论正确性的决心，因为他发现了一把钥匙，只有这把钥匙才能解开这个谜团，或者将它永远置于深不可测的领域。

A week later the two men came suddenly upon a clearing in the forest.
一周后，两人突然来到森林中的一块空地。

In the distance were several buildings surrounded by a strong palisade. Between them and the enclosure stretched a cultivated field in which a number of negroes were working.
远处有几栋建筑，周围有坚固的栅栏。在他们和围场之间有一片耕地，许多黑人正在耕种。

The two halted at the edge of the jungle.
两人在丛林边缘停了下来。

Tarzan fitted his bow with a poisoned arrow, but D’Arnot placed a hand upon his arm.
泰山在他的弓上装了一支毒箭，但达诺特把手放在他的手臂上。

‘What would you do, Tarzan?’ he asked.
“你会怎么做，泰山？”他问道。

‘They will try to kill us if they see us,’ replied Tarzan. ‘I prefer to be the killer.’
“如果他们看到我们，就会试图杀死我们。”泰山回答道。 “我更喜欢当杀手。”

‘Maybe they are friends,’ suggested D’Arnot.
“也许他们是朋友，”达诺特建议道。

‘They are black,’ was Tarzan’s only reply.
“它们是黑色的，”泰山唯一的回答。

And again he drew back his shaft.
他再次缩回了他的箭杆。

‘You must not, Tarzan!’ cried D’Arnot. ‘White men do not kill wantonly. MON DIEU! but you have much to learn.
“你不可以，泰山！”达诺特喊道。 “白人不会肆意杀人。天哪！但你还有很多东西要学。

‘I pity the ruffian who crosses you, my wild man, when I take you to Paris. I will have my hands full keeping your neck from beneath the guillotine.’
“当我带你去巴黎时，我同情那个与你作对的恶棍，我的野人。我会全力以赴，不让你的脖子被送上断头台。

Tarzan lowered his bow and smiled.
泰山放下弓，微笑着。

‘I do not know why I should kill the blacks back there in my jungle, yet not kill them here. Suppose Numa, the lion, should spring out upon us, I should say, then, I presume: Good morning, Monsieur Numa, how is Madame Numa; eh?’
“我不知道为什么我应该杀死丛林里的黑人，而不是在这里杀死他们。假设狮子努玛突然向我们扑来，那么我想我会说：早上好，努玛先生，努玛夫人怎么样？嗯？’

‘Wait until the blacks spring upon you,’ replied D’Arnot, ‘then you may kill them. Do not assume that men are your enemies until they prove it.’
“等到黑人向你扑来，”达诺回答说，“然后你就可以杀死他们了。”在他们证明这一点之前，不要认为男人是你的敌人。

‘Come,’ said Tarzan, ‘let us go and present ourselves to be killed,’ and he started straight across the field, his head high held and the tropical sun beating upon his smooth, brown skin.
“来吧，”泰山说，“让我们走吧，准备被杀。”他高高地抬起头，径直穿过田野，热带的阳光照在他光滑的棕色皮肤上。

Behind him came D’Arnot, clothed in some garments which had been discarded at the cabin by Clayton when the officers of the French cruiser had fitted him out in more presentable fashion.
在他身后是达诺特，身上穿着一些衣服，这些衣服是克莱顿在法国巡洋舰的军官们为他穿上更体面的衣服时丢弃在船舱里的。

Presently one of the blacks looked up, and beholding Tarzan, turned, shrieking, toward the palisade.
不久，其中一个黑人抬起头来，看到泰山，尖叫着转身朝栅栏走去。

In an instant the air was filled with cries of terror from the fleeing gardeners, but before any had reached the palisade a white man emerged from the enclosure, rifle in hand, to discover the cause of the commotion.
一瞬间，空气中充满了逃跑的园丁们的惊恐叫喊，但在他们到达栅栏之前，一名白人手持步枪从围场中出现，想要找出骚乱的原因。

What he saw brought his rifle to his shoulder, and Tarzan of the Apes would have felt cold lead once again had not D’Arnot cried loudly to the man with the leveled gun:
他所看到的一切让他的步枪抵在了他的肩膀上，如果不是达诺特对举着枪的人大声喊道，猿人泰山会再次感到冰冷。

‘Do not fire! We are friends!’
‘别开火！我们是朋友！'

‘Halt, then!’ was the reply.
“那就停下来吧！”这是回答。

‘Stop, Tarzan!’ cried D’Arnot. ‘He thinks we are enemies.’
“停下来，泰山！”达诺特喊道。 “他认为我们是敌人。”

Tarzan dropped into a walk, and together he and D’Arnot advanced toward the white man by the gate.
泰山开始散步，他和达诺特一起朝门口的白人走去。

The latter eyed them in puzzled bewilderment.
后者一脸疑惑地看着他们。

‘What manner of men are you?’ he asked, in French.
“你是什么样的人？”他用法语问道。

‘White men,’ replied D’Arnot. ‘We have been lost in the jungle for a long time.’
“白人，”达诺特回答道。 “我们在丛林中迷路了很长时间。”

The man had lowered his rifle and now advanced with outstretched hand.
那人放下了步枪，伸出手向前走去。

‘I am Father Constantine of the French Mission here,’ he said, ‘and I am glad to welcome you.’
“我是法国传教团的康斯坦丁神父，”他说，“我很高兴欢迎您。”

‘This is Monsieur Tarzan, Father Constantine,’ replied D’Arnot, indicating the ape-man; and as the priest extended his hand to Tarzan, D’Arnot added: ‘and I am Paul D’Arnot, of the French Navy.’
“这是泰山先生，康斯坦丁神父，”达诺特指着猿人回答道。当神父向泰山伸出手时，达诺特补充道：“我是法国海军的保罗·达诺特。”

Father Constantine took the hand which Tarzan extended in imitation of the priest’s act, while the latter took in the superb physique and handsome face in one quick, keen glance.
康斯坦丁神父握住泰山伸出的手，模仿神父的动作，泰山迅速敏锐地瞥了一眼泰山那绝妙的体格和英俊的脸庞。

And thus came Tarzan of the Apes to the first outpost of civilization.
就这样，人猿泰山来到了文明的第一个前哨。

For a week they remained there, and the ape-man, keenly observant, learned much of the ways of men; meanwhile black women sewed white duck garments for himself and D’Arnot so that they might continue their journey properly clothed.
他们在那里呆了一个星期，猿人敏锐的观察力，学到了很多人类的生活方式。与此同时，黑人妇女为他和达诺特缝制了白色的鸭子衣服，以便他们可以穿着合适的衣服继续他们的旅程。

Chapter 26
第26章


The Height of Civilization
文明的高度

Another month brought them to a little group of buildings at the mouth of a wide river, and there Tarzan saw many boats, and was filled with the timidity of the wild thing by the sight of many men.
又过了一个月，他们来到了一条宽阔河口的一小群建筑，泰山在那里看到了许多船只，看到许多人，他充满了野兽般的胆怯。

Gradually he became accustomed to the strange noises and the odd ways of civilization, so that presently none might know that two short months before, this handsome Frenchman in immaculate white ducks, who laughed and chatted with the gayest of them, had been swinging naked through primeval forests to pounce upon some unwary victim, which, raw, was to fill his savage belly.
渐渐地，他习惯了奇怪的噪音和奇怪的文明方式，因此，现在没有人知道，就在两个月前，这个穿着完美白鸭子、与其中最快乐的人说说笑笑的英俊法国人，已经赤身裸体地荡来荡去。原始森林扑向一些粗心的受害者，生吃，是为了填饱他野蛮的肚子。

The knife and fork, so contemptuously flung aside a month before, Tarzan now manipulated as exquisitely as did the polished D’Arnot.
刀叉一个月前被轻蔑地扔到一边，现在泰山却像擦得锃亮的达诺特一样熟练地操纵着。

So apt a pupil had he been that the young Frenchman had labored assiduously to make of Tarzan of the Apes a polished gentleman in so far as nicety of manners and speech were concerned.
他是一个非常聪明的学生，以至于这位年轻的法国人孜孜不倦地努力使人猿泰山成为一位在举止和言语方面都优雅的绅士。

‘God made you a gentleman at heart, my friend,’ D’Arnot had said; ‘but we want His works to show upon the exterior also.’
“上帝让你成为一位内心绅士，我的朋友，”达诺特说道。 “但我们希望他的作品也能在外部展现出来。”

As soon as they had reached the little port, D’Arnot had cabled his government of his safety, and requested a threemonths’ leave, which had been granted.
他们一到达小港口，达诺特就向政府通报了他的安全，并请求三个月的休假，并得到了批准。

He had also cabled his bankers for funds, and the enforced wait of a month, under which both chafed, was due to their inability to charter a vessel for the return to Tarzan’s jungle after the treasure.
他还给银行家打了电报要求提供资金，但由于无法租船返回泰山丛林，他们被迫等待了一个月，这让双方都很恼火。

During their stay at the coast town ‘Monsieur Tarzan’ became the wonder of both whites and blacks because of several occurrences which to Tarzan seemed the merest of nothings.
在他们逗留沿海小镇期间，“泰山先生”成为白人和黑人的奇迹，因为发生了几起在泰山看来微不足道的事件。

Once a huge black, crazed by drink, had run amuck and terrorized the town, until his evil star had led him to where the black-haired French giant lolled upon the veranda of the hotel.
曾经有一个因酗酒而发疯的黑人横行霸道，让整个小镇陷入恐慌，直到他的邪恶之星把他带到了黑发法国巨人懒洋洋地躺在酒店阳台上的地方。

Mounting the broad steps, with brandished knife, the Negro made straight for a party of four men sitting at a table sipping the inevitable absinthe.
黑人挥舞着刀，走上宽阔的台阶，径直走向坐在桌子旁喝着不可避免的苦艾酒的四个人。

Shouting in alarm, the four took to their heels, and then the black spied Tarzan.
四人惊呼一声，连忙拔腿就跑，然后黑衣人发现了泰山。

With a roar he charged the ape-man, while half a hundred heads peered from sheltering windows and doorways to witness the butchering of the poor Frenchman by the giant black.
他咆哮着冲向猿人，同时有半百个头从遮蔽的窗户和门口探出头来，目睹了这个可怜的法国人被这个黑人巨人屠杀的过程。

Tarzan met the rush with the fighting smile that the joy of battle always brought to his lips.
泰山脸上带着战斗的微笑，迎接冲锋，战斗的喜悦总是让他挂在嘴边。

As the Negro closed upon him, steel muscles gripped the black wrist of the uplifted knife-hand, and a single swift wrench left the hand dangling below a broken bone.
当黑人逼近他时，钢铁般的肌肉抓住了举起的持刀手的黑色手腕，一个快速的扳手就让那只手在断骨下面晃来晃去。

With the pain and surprise, the madness left the black man, and as Tarzan dropped back into his chair the fellow turned, crying with agony, and dashed wildly toward the native village.
伴随着痛苦和惊讶，黑人失去了疯狂，当泰山坐回椅子上时，那家伙转过身来，痛苦地哭泣，疯狂地冲向家乡。

On another occasion as Tarzan and D’Arnot sat at dinner with a number of other whites, the talk fell upon lions and lion hunting.
还有一次，泰山和达诺特与其他一些白人坐在一起吃晚饭，话题落在了狮子和狮子狩猎上。

Opinion was divided as to the bravery of the king of beasts —some maintaining that he was an arrant coward, but all agreeing that it was with a feeling of greater security that they gripped their express rifles when the monarch of the jungle roared about a camp at night.
对于百兽之王的勇敢，人们意见不一，有些人坚持认为他是个彻头彻尾的胆小鬼，但所有人都同意，当丛林之王对营地咆哮时，他们握着快速步枪是出于一种更大的安全感。晚上。

D’Arnot and Tarzan had agreed that his past be kept secret, and so none other than the French officer knew of the ape-man’s familiarity with the beasts of the jungle.
达诺特和泰山同意对他的过去保密，因此除了法国军官之外，没有人知道猿人对丛林野兽的熟悉程度。

‘Monsieur Tarzan has not expressed himself,’ said one of the party. ‘A man of his prowess who has spent some time in Africa, as I understand Monsieur Tarzan has, must have had experiences with lions—yes?’
“泰山先生还没有表达自己的意思，”其中一名成员说道。 “据我所知，泰山先生曾在非洲呆过一段时间，像他这样勇猛的人一定有过与狮子打交道的经历——是吗？”

‘Some,’ replied Tarzan, dryly. ‘Enough to know that each of you are right in your judgment of the characteristics of the lions—you have met. But one might as well judge all blacks by the fellow who ran amuck last week, or decide that all whites are cowards because one has met a cowardly white.
“有一些，”泰山干巴巴地回答。 ‘足以知道你们每个人对狮子特征的判断都是正确的——你们已经见过了。但人们不妨以上周横行霸道的家伙来评判所有黑人，或者因为遇到了一个懦弱的白人而认为所有白人都是懦夫。

‘There is as much individuality among the lower orders, gentlemen, as there is among ourselves. Today we may go out and stumble upon a lion which is over-timid—he runs away from us. To-morrow we may meet his uncle or his twin brother, and our friends wonder why we do not return from the jungle. For myself, I always assume that a lion is ferocious, and so I am never caught off my guard.’
“先生们，下层阶级之间存在着同样多的个性，就像我们之间一样。今天我们出去可能会遇见一头过于胆怯的狮子——它逃离了我们。明天我们可能会见到他的叔叔或他的双胞胎兄弟，我们的朋友想知道为什么我们不从丛林回来。就我自己而言，我总是认为狮子是凶猛的，所以我从来不会措手不及。

‘There would be little pleasure in hunting,’ retorted the first speaker, ‘if one is afraid of the thing he hunts.’
“如果一个人害怕他所猎杀的东西，那么狩猎就不会有什么乐趣，”第一个发言者反驳道。

D’Arnot smiled. Tarzan afraid!
达诺特笑了。泰山害怕了！

‘I do not exactly understand what you mean by fear,’ said Tarzan. ‘Like lions, fear is a different thing in different men, but to me the only pleasure in the hunt is the knowledge that the hunted thing has power to harm me as much as I have to harm him. If I went out with a couple of rifles and a gun bearer, and twenty or thirty beaters, to hunt a lion, I should not feel that the lion had much chance, and so the pleasure of the hunt would be lessened in proportion to the increased safety which I felt.’
“我不太明白你所说的恐惧是什么意思，”泰山说。 “就像狮子一样，不同的人的恐惧是不同的，但对我来说，狩猎中唯一的乐趣就是知道被猎物有能力伤害我，就像我必须伤害他一样。如果我带着几把步枪和一个持枪手，还有二十或三十个打手去猎杀一头狮子，我应该不会觉得狮子有多少机会，因此狩猎的乐趣就会相应地减少。我感觉到安全性提高了。

‘Then I am to take it that Monsieur Tarzan would prefer to go naked into the jungle, armed only with a jackknife, to kill the king of beasts,’ laughed the other, good naturedly, but with the merest touch of sarcasm in his tone.
“那我想，人猿泰山先生更愿意赤身裸体，只带一把折叠刀，走进丛林，去杀死百兽之王。”另一个人笑道，他的脾气很好，但语气中带着一丝讽刺。 。

‘And a piece of rope,’ added Tarzan.
“还有一根绳子，”泰山补充道。

Just then the deep roar of a lion sounded from the distant jungle, as though to challenge whoever dared enter the lists with him.
就在这时，远处的丛林中传来一声低沉的狮子吼声，似乎是在向敢于与他一起进入名单的人发起挑战。

‘There is your opportunity, Monsieur Tarzan,’ bantered the Frenchman.
“你的机会来了，泰山先生，”法国人开玩笑道。

‘I am not hungry,’ said Tarzan simply.
“我不饿。”泰山简单地说。

The men laughed, all but D’Arnot. He alone knew that a savage beast had spoken its simple reason through the lips of the ape-man.
除了达诺特之外，其他人都笑了。只有他知道，一头凶兽通过猿人之口说出了它简单的道理。

‘But you are afraid, just as any of us would be, to go out there naked, armed only with a knife and a piece of rope,’ said the banterer. ‘Is it not so?’
“但是你害怕，就像我们任何人一样，赤裸裸地出去，只带着一把刀和一根绳子，”开玩笑的人说。 “不是这样吗？”

‘No,’ replied Tarzan. ‘Only a fool performs any act without reason.’
“不，”泰山回答道。 “只有傻瓜才会毫无理由地做出任何行为。”

‘Five thousand francs is a reason,’ said the other. ‘I wager you that amount you cannot bring back a lion from the jungle under the conditions we have named—naked and armed only with a knife and a piece of rope.’
“五千法郎是一个理由。”另一个说。 “我敢打赌，在我们所说的条件下，你不可能从丛林中带回一头狮子——赤身裸体，只带着一把刀和一根绳子。”

Tarzan glanced toward D’Arnot and nodded his head.
泰山看了达诺特一眼，点了点头。

‘Make it ten thousand,’ said D’Arnot.
“赚一万吧，”达诺特说。

‘Done,’ replied the other.
“完成了，”另一个回答道。

Tarzan arose.
泰山出现了。

‘I shall have to leave my clothes at the edge of the settlement, so that if I do not return before daylight I shall have something to wear through the streets.’
“我必须把衣服留在定居点的边缘，这样，如果我在天亮之前不回来，我就能有衣服穿在街上。”

‘You are not going now,’ exclaimed the wagerer—‘at night?’
“你现在不走，”打赌者喊道——“晚上？”

‘Why not?’ asked Tarzan. ‘Numa walks abroad at night —it will be easier to find him.’
“为什么不呢？”泰山问道。 “努玛晚上出国——这样会更容易找到他。”

‘No,’ said the other, ‘I do not want your blood upon my hands. It will be foolhardy enough if you go forth by day.’
“不，”另一个说，“我不想让你的血沾到我的手上。”如果你白天出去，那就太鲁莽了。

‘I shall go now,’ replied Tarzan, and went to his room for his knife and rope.
“我现在就走。”泰山回答道，然后走进自己的房间拿刀和绳子。

The men accompanied him to the edge of the jungle, where he left his clothes in a small storehouse.
这些人陪他来到丛林边缘，他把衣服放在一个小仓库里。

But when he would have entered the blackness of the undergrowth they tried to dissuade him; and the wagerer was most insistent of all that he abandon his foolhardy venture.
但当他要进入黑暗的灌木丛时，他们却试图劝阻他。赌注者最坚持要他放弃他的鲁莽冒险。

‘I will accede that you have won,’ he said, ‘and the ten thousand francs are yours if you will but give up this foolish attempt, which can only end in your death.’
“我承认你赢了，”他说，“只要你放弃这种愚蠢的尝试，那一万法郎就是你的了，这种愚蠢的尝试只会导致你的死亡。”

Tarzan laughed, and in another moment the jungle had swallowed him.
泰山大笑起来，转眼间丛林就将他吞没了。

The men stood silent for some moments and then slowly turned and walked back to the hotel veranda.
男人们沉默了一会儿，然后慢慢转身走回酒店的阳台。

Tarzan had no sooner entered the jungle than he took to the trees, and it was with a feeling of exultant freedom that he swung once more through the forest branches.
泰山一进入丛林，就来到了树林里，带着一种欣喜若狂的自由感，他再次在森林的树枝间荡来荡去。

This was life! Ah, how he loved it! Civilization held nothing like this in its narrow and circumscribed sphere, hemmed in by restrictions and conventionalities. Even clothes were a hindrance and a nuisance.
这就是生活！啊，他多么喜欢它啊！文明在其狭隘和受限制的范围内没有这样的情况，受到限制和惯例的限制。甚至衣服也是一种障碍和麻烦。

At last he was free. He had not realized what a prisoner he had been.
他终于自由了。他没有意识到自己是一个怎样的囚犯。

How easy it would be to circle back to the coast, and then make toward the south and his own jungle and cabin.
绕回海岸，然后向南行驶，前往他自己的丛林和小屋，这是多么容易啊。

Now he caught the scent of Numa, for he was traveling up wind. Presently his quick ears detected the familiar sound of padded feet and the brushing of a huge, fur-clad body through the undergrowth.
现在他闻到了努玛的气味，因为他正逆风行驶。不久，他灵敏的耳朵就察觉到了熟悉的带垫脚的声音，以及一个巨大的、毛皮覆盖的身体穿过灌木丛的声音。

Tarzan came quietly above the unsuspecting beast and silently stalked him until he came into a little patch of moonlight.
泰山悄悄地来到毫无戒心的野兽上方，默默地跟踪他，直到他进入一小片月光。

Then the quick noose settled and tightened about the tawny throat, and, as he had done it a hundred times in the past, Tarzan made fast the end to a strong branch and, while the beast fought and clawed for freedom, dropped to the ground behind him, and leaping upon the great back, plunged his long thin blade a dozen times into the fierce heart.
然后，快速套索固定下来，收紧了黄褐色的喉咙，就像过去一百次一样，泰山将一根坚固的树枝的末端固定住，而当这头野兽为自由而战斗和抓斗时，他倒在了地上。在他身后，跳上巨大的背脊，将细长的刀刃插入凶猛的心脏十几次。

Then with his foot upon the carcass of Numa, he raised his voice in the awesome victory cry of his savage tribe.
然后，他的脚踩在努玛的尸体上，他发出了野蛮部落令人敬畏的胜利呐喊。

For a moment Tarzan stood irresolute, swayed by conflicting emotions of loyalty to D’Arnot and a mighty lust for the freedom of his own jungle. At last the vision of a beautiful face, and the memory of warm lips crushed to his dissolved the fascinating picture he had been drawing of his old life.
有一瞬间，泰山犹豫不决，因为对达诺的忠诚和对自己丛林自由的强烈渴望之间的冲突情绪而摇摆不定。最后，一张美丽的脸庞的景象，以及压在他身上的温暖嘴唇的记忆，溶解了他一直在描绘的旧生活的迷人画面。

The ape-man threw the warm carcass of Numa across his shoulders and took to the trees once more.
猿人把努玛温暖的尸体扛在肩上，再次走向树林。

The men upon the veranda had sat for an hour, almost in silence.
阳台上的人们几乎一言不发地坐了一个小时。

They had tried ineffectually to converse on various subjects, and always the thing uppermost in the mind of each had caused the conversation to lapse.
他们试图就不同的话题进行交谈，但没有效果，而且总是每个人心目中最重要的事情导致谈话中断。

‘MON DIEU,’ said the wagerer at length, ‘I can endure it no longer. I am going into the jungle with my express and bring back that mad man.’
“我的天，”赌徒最后说道，“我再也忍受不了了。”我要带着我的快车去丛林，带回那个疯子。”

‘I will go with you,’ said one.
其中一人说道：“我和你一起去。”

‘And I’—‘And I’—‘And I,’ chorused the others.
“还有我”——“还有我”——“还有我，”其他人齐声说道。

As though the suggestion had broken the spell of some horrid nightmare they hastened to their various quarters, and presently were headed toward the jungle—each one heavily armed.
仿佛这个建议打破了某种可怕噩梦的魔咒，他们赶紧奔向各自的住所，不久就向丛林进发——每个人都全副武装。

‘God! What was that?’ suddenly cried one of the party, an Englishman, as Tarzan’s savage cry came faintly to their ears.
'上帝！那是什么？”当泰山野蛮的叫声隐约传入他们的耳中时，其中一名英国人突然喊道。

‘I heard the same thing once before,’ said a Belgian, ‘when I was in the gorilla country. My carriers said it was the cry of a great bull ape who has made a kill.’
“我以前也听过同样的事情，”一位比利时人说道，“当时我在大猩猩的国家。我的携带者说这是一只大牛猿杀死猎物后的叫声。

D’Arnot remembered Clayton’s description of the awful roar with which Tarzan had announced his kills, and he half smiled in spite of the horror which filled him to think that the uncanny sound could have issued from a human throat —from the lips of his friend.
达诺特记得克莱顿对泰山宣布杀戮时发出的可怕咆哮的描述，尽管想到这不可思议的声音可能是从人的喉咙里发出的——从他朋友的嘴唇里发出来，他还是半笑了笑。 。

As the party stood finally near the edge of the jungle, debating as to the best distribution of their forces, they were startled by a low laugh near them, and turning, beheld advancing toward them a giant figure bearing a dead lion upon its broad shoulders.
当一行人最终站在丛林边缘附近，讨论他们的兵力的最佳分配时，他们被附近一声低沉的笑声吓了一跳，转过身来，看到一个巨大的身影正向他们走来，宽阔的肩膀上扛着一只死狮子。

Even D’Arnot was thunderstruck, for it seemed impossible that the man could have so quickly dispatched a lion with the pitiful weapons he had taken, or that alone he could have borne the huge carcass through the tangled jungle.
就连达诺特也被惊呆了，因为这个人似乎不可能用他所拿的可怜的武器如此迅速地消灭了一头狮子，也不可能独自一人扛着巨大的尸体穿过纠结的丛林。

The men crowded about Tarzan with many questions, but his only answer was a laughing depreciation of his feat.
人们聚集在泰山周围，提出了许多问题，但他唯一的回答是对他的壮举的嘲笑。

To Tarzan it was as though one should eulogize a butcher for his heroism in killing a cow, for Tarzan had killed so often for food and for self-preservation that the act seemed anything but remarkable to him. But he was indeed a hero in the eyes of these men—men accustomed to hunting big game.
对泰山来说，这就好像一个屠夫杀死一头牛的英勇行为应该受到赞扬，因为泰山经常为了食物和自保而杀人，这种行为对他来说一点也不引人注目。但在这些习惯于狩猎大型猎物的人们眼中，他确实是一位英雄。

Incidentally, he had won ten thousand francs, for D’Arnot insisted that he keep it all.
顺便说一句，他赢得了一万法郎，因为达诺坚持要他全部保留。

This was a very important item to Tarzan, who was just commencing to realize the power which lay beyond the little pieces of metal and paper which always changed hands when human beings rode, or ate, or slept, or clothed themselves, or drank, or worked, or played, or sheltered themselves from the rain or cold or sun.
这对泰山来说是一件非常重要的物品，他刚刚开始意识到这些小金属和纸片的力量，当人类骑马、吃饭、睡觉、穿衣服、喝水或喝水时，这些小金属和纸片总是易手。工作，或玩耍，或躲避雨、寒冷或阳光。

It had become evident to Tarzan that without money one must die. D’Arnot had told him not to worry, since he had more than enough for both, but the ape-man was learning many things and one of them was that people looked down upon one who accepted money from another without giving something of equal value in exchange.
泰山已经清楚地意识到，没有钱，人就必须死。达诺特告诉他不要担心，因为他拥有的东西足够这两样了，但是猿人正在学习很多东西，其中之一就是人们会看不起从另一个人那里接受金钱而不给予同等价值的东西的人作为交换。

Shortly after the episode of the lion hunt, D’Arnot succeeded in chartering an ancient tub for the coastwise trip to Tarzan’s land-locked harbor.
猎狮事件发生后不久，达诺特成功租用了一个古老的浴缸，用于沿海旅行前往泰山的内陆港口。

It was a happy morning for them both when the little vessel weighed anchor and made for the open sea.
当这艘小船起锚驶向公海时，对他们俩来说这是一个快乐的早晨。

The trip to the beach was uneventful, and the morning after they dropped anchor before the cabin, Tarzan, garbed once more in his jungle regalia and carrying a spade, set out alone for the amphitheater of the apes where lay the treasure.
前往海滩的旅程平安无事，第二天早上，他们在船舱前抛锚后，泰山再次穿上丛林服饰，拿着一把铁锹，独自前往埋藏着宝藏的猿类圆形剧场。

Late the next day he returned, bearing the great chest upon his shoulder, and at sunrise the little vessel worked through the harbor’s mouth and took up her northward journey.
第二天晚些时候，他回来了，肩上扛着那个大箱子，日出时，这艘小船穿过港口，开始了向北的旅程。

Three weeks later Tarzan and D’Arnot were passengers on board a French steamer bound for Lyons, and after a few days in that city D’Arnot took Tarzan to Paris.
三周后，泰山和达诺登上了一艘开往里昂的法国轮船，在里昂待了几天后，达山带着泰山前往巴黎。

The ape-man was anxious to proceed to America, but D’Arnot insisted that he must accompany him to Paris first, nor would he divulge the nature of the urgent necessity upon which he based his demand.
猿人急于前往美国，但达诺特坚持要求他必须先陪他去巴黎，而且他也不愿透露他的要求所基于的紧急需要。

One of the first things which D’Arnot accomplished after their arrival was to arrange to visit a high official of the police department, an old friend; and to take Tarzan with him.
到达后，达诺特做的第一件事就是安排拜访警察局的一位高级官员，他是一位老朋友。并带着泰山一起去。

Adroitly D’Arnot led the conversation from point to point until the policeman had explained to the interested Tarzan many of the methods in vogue for apprehending and identifying criminals.
达诺特巧妙地从一点到另一点引导谈话，直到警察向感兴趣的泰山解释了许多流行的逮捕和识别罪犯的方法。

Not the least interesting to Tarzan was the part played by finger prints in this fascinating science.
对泰山来说，最有趣的是指纹在这门令人着迷的科学中所扮演的角色。

‘But of what value are these imprints,’ asked Tarzan, ‘when, after a few years the lines upon the fingers are entirely changed by the wearing out of the old tissue and the growth of new?’
“但是，这些印记有什么价值呢？”泰山问道，“几年后，手指上的纹路会因旧组织的磨损和新组织的生长而完全改变？”

‘The lines never change,’ replied the official. ‘From infancy to senility the fingerprints of an individual change only in size, except as injuries alter the loops and whorls. But if imprints have been taken of the thumb and four fingers of both hands one must needs lose all entirely to escape identification.’
“线路永远不会改变，”这位官员回答道。 “从婴儿期到老年，一个人的指纹仅在大小上发生变化，除非受伤会改变环和螺纹。但如果双手的拇指和四个手指都被留下了印记，那么就必须完全失去印记才能逃脱身份识别。”

‘It is marvelous,’ exclaimed D’Arnot. ‘I wonder what the lines upon my own fingers may resemble.’
“太棒了，”达诺特感叹道。 “我想知道我自己手指上的线条会是什么样子。”

‘We can soon see,’ replied the police officer, and ringing a bell he summoned an assistant to whom he issued a few directions.
“我们很快就能看到，”警察回答道，然后按响了铃，他叫来了一名助手，向他发出了一些指示。

The man left the room, but presently returned with a little hardwood box which he placed on his superior’s desk.
那人离开了房间，但不久就带着一个小硬木盒子回来了，他把它放在了上司的桌子上。

‘Now,’ said the officer, ‘you shall have your fingerprints in a second.’
“现在，”警官说，“一会儿就可以录指纹了。”

He drew from the little case a square of plate glass, a little tube of thick ink, a rubber roller, and a few snowy white cards.
他从小盒子里取出一块方形平板玻璃、一小管浓墨水、一根橡皮滚筒和几张雪白的卡片。

Squeezing a drop of ink onto the glass, he spread it back and forth with the rubber roller until the entire surface of the glass was covered to his satisfaction with a very thin and uniform layer of ink.
他将一滴墨水挤到玻璃上，用橡皮辊来回涂抹，直到玻璃的整个表面都覆盖了一层非常薄而均匀的墨水，直到他满意为止。

‘Place the four fingers of your right hand upon the glass, thus,’ he said to D’Arnot. ‘Now the thumb. That is right. Now place them in just the same position upon this card, here, no—a little to the right. We must leave room for the thumb and the fingers of the left hand. There, that’s it. Now the same with the left.’
“将右手的四个手指放在玻璃上，这样，”他对达诺特说。 ‘现在是拇指。没错。现在将它们放在这张卡片上的相同位置，这里，不——稍微靠右边。我们必须为左手的拇指和手指留出空间。就是这样。现在左边也一样。

‘Come, Tarzan,’ cried D’Arnot, ‘let’s see what your whorls look like.’
“来吧，泰山，”达诺特喊道，“让我们看看你的螺纹是什么样子的。”

Tarzan complied readily, asking many questions of the officer during the operation.
泰山爽快地答应了，在行动过程中向警官提出了许多问题。

‘Do fingerprints show racial characteristics?’ he asked. ‘Could you determine, for example, solely from fingerprints whether the subject was Negro or Caucasian?’
“指纹显示种族特征吗？”他问道。 “例如，您能否仅根据指纹来确定该对象是黑人还是白人？”

‘I think not,’ replied the officer.
“我想不会，”军官回答道。

‘Could the finger prints of an ape be detected from those of a man?’
“能从人的指纹中检测到猿猴的指纹吗？”

‘Probably, because the ape’s would be far simpler than those of the higher organism.’
“可能是这样，因为猿类的结构比高等生物的结构要简单得多。”

‘But a cross between an ape and a man might show the characteristics of either progenitor?’ continued Tarzan.
“但是猿和人之间的杂交可能会显示出任一祖先的特征？”泰山继续说道。

‘Yes, I should think likely,’ responded the official; ‘but the science has not progressed sufficiently to render it exact enough in such matters. I should hate to trust its findings further than to differentiate between individuals. There it is absolute. No two people born into the world probably have ever had identical lines upon all their digits. It is very doubtful if any single fingerprint will ever be exactly duplicated by any finger other than the one which originally made it.’
“是的，我认为有可能，”这位官员回答道。 “但是科学还没有足够的进步来使其在这些问题上足够精确。我不愿意进一步相信它的发现，而不是区分个体。在那里它是绝对的。世界上可能没有两个人出生在他们的所有手指上都有相同的线条。非常值得怀疑的是，除了最初制作指纹的手指之外，是否有任何手指能够准确地复制任何单个指纹。

‘Does the comparison require much time or labor?’ asked D’Arnot.
“比较需要很多时间或精力吗？”达诺特问。

‘Ordinarily but a few moments, if the impressions are distinct.’
“通常只要几分钟，如果印象很明显的话。”

D’Arnot drew a little black book from his pocket and commenced turning the pages.
达诺特从口袋里掏出一本小黑书，开始翻页。

Tarzan looked at the book in surprise. How did D’Arnot come to have his book?
泰山惊讶地看着这本书。达诺特是如何拥有他的书的？

Presently D’Arnot stopped at a page on which were five tiny little smudges.
不久，达诺特在一页上停了下来，上面有五个小小的污迹。

He handed the open book to the policeman.
他把打开的书递给警察。

‘Are these imprints similar to mine or Monsieur Tarzan’s or can you say that they are identical with either?’ The officer drew a powerful glass from his desk and examined all three specimens carefully, making notations meanwhile upon a pad of paper.
“这些印记与我的或泰山先生的印记相似吗？或者你能说它们与两者相同吗？”军官从办公桌上拿出一个强大的玻璃杯，仔细检查了所有三个样本，同时在一张纸上做了记号。

Tarzan realized now what was the meaning of their visit to the police officer.
泰山现在明白了他们拜访警察的意义。

The answer to his life’s riddle lay in these tiny marks.
他一生之谜的答案就在这些微小的痕迹中。

With tense nerves he sat leaning forward in his chair, but suddenly he relaxed and dropped back, smiling.
他紧张地坐在椅子上，身体前倾，但突然放松下来，面带微笑地向后靠去。

D’Arnot looked at him in surprise.
达诺特惊讶地看着他。

‘You forget that for twenty years the dead body of the child who made those fingerprints lay in the cabin of his father, and that all my life I have seen it lying there,’ said Tarzan bitterly.
“你忘记了，二十年来，留下这些指纹的孩子的尸体一直躺在他父亲的小屋里，而我一生都看到它躺在那里，”泰山痛苦地说。

The policeman looked up in astonishment.
警察惊讶地抬起头。

‘Go ahead, captain, with your examination,’ said D’Arnot, ‘we will tell you the story later—provided Monsieur Tarzan is agreeable.’
“继续吧，船长，你的检查，”达诺特说，“我们稍后再告诉你这个故事——如果泰山先生同意的话。”

Tarzan nodded his head.
泰山点点头。

‘But you are mad, my dear D’Arnot,’ he insisted. ‘Those little fingers are buried on the west coast of Africa.’
“但是你疯了，亲爱的达诺特，”他坚持道。 “那些小手指被埋在非洲西海岸。”

‘I do not know as to that, Tarzan,’ replied D’Arnot. ‘It is possible, but if you are not the son of John Clayton then how in heaven’s name did you come into that God forsaken jungle where no white man other than John Clayton had ever set foot?’
“我不知道，泰山，”达诺特回答道。 “有可能，但如果你不是约翰·克莱顿的儿子，那么以老天的名义，你怎么会来到这片被上帝遗弃的丛林，除了约翰·克莱顿以外，没有白人曾踏足过那里呢？”

‘You forget—Kala,’ said Tarzan.
“你忘了——卡拉，”泰山说。

‘I do not even consider her,’ replied D’Arnot.
“我什至没有考虑过她，”达诺特回答道。

The friends had walked to the broad window overlooking the boulevard as they talked. For some time they stood there gazing out upon the busy throng beneath, each wrapped in his own thoughts.
朋友们一边聊天，一边走到俯瞰着林荫大道的宽大窗户前。他们站在那里凝视着下面忙碌的人群有一段时间，每个人都沉浸在自己的思绪中。

‘It takes some time to compare finger prints,’ thought D’Arnot, turning to look at the police officer.
“比对指纹需要一些时间，”达诺特想道，转头看向警察。

To his astonishment he saw the official leaning back in his chair hastily scanning the contents of the little black diary.
令他惊讶的是，官员靠在椅背上，急忙浏览着黑色小日记本上的内容。

D’Arnot coughed. The policeman looked up, and, catching his eye, raised his finger to admonish silence. D’Arnot turned back to the window, and presently the police officer spoke.
达诺特咳嗽了一声。警察抬起头来，与他目光相接，举起手指示意大家保持安静。达诺特转身面向窗子，不久警察就说话了。

‘Gentlemen,’ he said.
“先生们，”他说。

Both turned toward him.
两人都转向他。

‘There is evidently a great deal at stake which must hinge to a greater or lesser extent upon the absolute correctness of this comparison. I therefore ask that you leave the entire matter in my hands until Monsieur Desquerc, our expert returns. It will be but a matter of a few days.’
“显然，有很多事情处于危险之中，这些事情必须或多或少地取决于这种比较的绝对正确性。因此，我请求您将整个事情交给我处理，直到我们的专家 Desquerc 先生回来。这只是几天的事情。

‘I had hoped to know at once,’ said D’Arnot. ‘Monsieur Tarzan sails for America tomorrow.’
“我本来希望立刻就知道，”达诺特说。 “泰山先生明天启航前往美国。”

‘I will promise that you can cable him a report within two weeks,’ replied the officer; ‘but what it will be I dare not say. There are resemblances, yet—well, we had better leave it for Monsieur Desquerc to solve.’
“我保证你能在两周内给他一份报告，”军官回答道。 “但具体是什么我不敢说。确实有一些相似之处——好吧，我们最好把它留给德斯克先生来解决。

Chapter 27
第27章


The Giant Again
再次巨人

A taxicab drew up before an oldfashioned residence upon the outskirts of Baltimore.
一辆出租车停在巴尔的摩郊区一栋老式住宅前。

A man of about forty, well built and with strong, regular features, stepped out, and paying the chauffeur dismissed him.
一个四十岁左右的男人走了出来，付了钱让司机打发他走。

A moment later the passenger was entering the library of the old home.
不一会儿，乘客就走进了老家的图书馆。

‘Ah, Mr. Canler!’ exclaimed an old man, rising to greet him.
“啊，坎勒先生！”一位老人站起来迎接他，惊呼道。

‘Good evening, my dear Professor,’ cried the man, extending a cordial hand.
“晚上好，我亲爱的教授，”那人伸出一只亲切的手喊道。

‘Who admitted you?’ asked the professor.
“谁录取了你？”教授问。

‘Esmeralda.’
“埃斯梅拉达。”

‘Then she will acquaint Jane with the fact that you are here,’ said the old man.
“然后她会让简知道你在这里的事实，”老人说。

‘No, Professor,’ replied Canler, ‘for I came primarily to see you.’
“不，教授，”坎勒回答道，“因为我主要是来看你的。”

‘Ah, I am honored,’ said Professor Porter.
“啊，我很荣幸，”波特教授说。

‘Professor,’ continued Robert Canler, with great deliberation, as though carefully weighing his words, ‘I have come this evening to speak with you about Jane.’
“教授，”罗伯特·坎勒继续说道，他深思熟虑，仿佛仔细斟酌着自己的措辞，“今晚我来是为了和您谈谈简的事。”

‘You know my aspirations, and you have been generous enough to approve my suit.’
“你知道我的愿望，而且你也很慷慨地批准了我的诉讼。”

Professor Archimedes Q. Porter fidgeted in his armchair. The subject always made him uncomfortable. He could not understand why. Canler was a splendid match.
阿基米德·Q·波特教授在扶手椅上坐立不安。这个话题总是让他感到不舒服。他不明白为什么。坎勒是一场精彩的比赛。

‘But Jane,’ continued Canler, ‘I cannot understand her. She puts me off first on one ground and then another. I have always the feeling that she breathes a sigh of relief every time I bid her good-by.’
“但是简，”坎勒继续说道，“我无法理解她。她先是在一个理由上让我厌烦，然后又在另一个理由上让我厌烦。我总有一种感觉，每次我向她告别时，她都会松一口气。

‘Tut, tut,’ said Professor Porter. ‘Tut, tut, Mr. Canler. Jane is a most obedient daughter. She will do precisely as I tell her.’
“啧，啧，”波特教授说。 ‘啧啧，坎勒先生。简是一个最听话的女儿。她会完全按照我告诉她的去做。

‘Then I can still count on your support?’ asked Canler, a tone of relief marking his voice.
“那我还能指望你的支持吗？”坎勒问道，声音里带着一丝宽慰。

‘Certainly, sir; certainly, sir,’ exclaimed Professor Porter. ‘How could you doubt it?’
'当然，先生;当然，先生，”波特教授喊道。 “你怎么能怀疑呢？”

‘There is young Clayton, you know,’ suggested Canler. ‘He has been hanging about for months. I don’t know that Jane cares for him; but beside his title they say he has inherited a very considerable estate from his father, and it might not be strange,—if he finally won her, unless—‘ and Canler paused.
“你知道，这是年轻的克莱顿，”坎勒建议道。 “他已经徘徊了好几个月了。我不知道简是否关心他；我不知道简是否关心他。但除了他的头衔之外，他们还说他从父亲那里继承了一笔非常可观的遗产，这可能并不奇怪——如果他最终赢得了她，除非——”坎勒停了下来。

‘Tut—tut, Mr. Canler; unless—what?’
‘啧——啧，坎勒先生；除非——什么？

‘Unless, you see fit to request that Jane and I be married at once,’ said Canler, slowly and distinctly.
“除非，你认为要求简和我立即结婚是合适的，”坎勒缓慢而清晰地说。

‘I have already suggested to Jane that it would be desirable,’ said Professor Porter sadly, ‘for we can no longer afford to keep up this house, and live as her associations demand.’
“我已经向简建议，这是可取的，”波特教授悲伤地说，“因为我们再也无力维持这座房子，也无法按照她的协会的要求生活。”

‘What was her reply?’ asked Canler.
“她的回答是什么？”坎勒问。

‘She said she was not ready to marry anyone yet,’ replied Professor Porter, ‘and that we could go and live upon the farm in northern Wisconsin which her mother left her.
“她说她还没有准备好嫁给任何人，”波特教授回答道，“我们可以去她母亲留给她的威斯康星州北部的农场生活。”

‘It is a little more than self-supporting. The tenants have always made a living from it, and been able to send Jane a trifle beside, each year. She is planning on our going up there the first of the week. Philander and Mr. Clayton have already gone to get things in readiness for us.’
‘这不仅仅是自给自足。房客们一直靠它谋生，每年还能给简送一点小礼物。她计划我们这周第一天去那里。菲兰德和克莱顿先生已经去为我们准备东西了。

‘Clayton has gone there?’ exclaimed Canler, visibly chagrined. ‘Why was I not told? I would gladly have gone and seen that every comfort was provided.’
“克莱顿去那儿了？”坎勒喊道，显然很懊恼。 ‘为什么没有人告诉我？我很乐意去看看一切都得到了安慰。

‘Jane feels that we are already too much in your debt, Mr. Canler,’ said Professor Porter.
“简觉得我们已经欠你太多了，坎勒先生，”波特教授说。

Canler was about to reply, when the sound of footsteps came from the hall without, and Jane entered the room.
坎勒正要回答，外面的大厅里传来了脚步声，简走进了房间。

‘Oh, I beg your pardon!’ she exclaimed, pausing on the threshold. ‘I thought you were alone, papa.’
“哦，请原谅！”她在门槛上停了下来，大声喊道。 “我以为你独自一人，爸爸。”

‘It is only I, Jane,’ said Canler, who had risen, ‘won’t you come in and join the family group? We were just speaking of you.’
“只有我，简，”站起来的坎勒说道，“你不想进来加入我们的家庭吗？我们只是在谈论你。

‘Thank you,’ said Jane, entering and taking the chair Canler placed for her. ‘I only wanted to tell papa that Tobey is coming down from the college tomorrow to pack his books. I want you to be sure, papa, to indicate all that you can do without until fall. Please don’t carry this entire library to Wisconsin, as you would have carried it to Africa, if I had not put my foot down.’
“谢谢，”简走进来，坐上坎勒为她安排的椅子。 “我只是想告诉爸爸托比明天要从大学回来收拾书本。爸爸，我希望你能确定，在秋天之前你可以做些什么。请不要把整个图书馆带到威斯康星州，如果我没有坚定不移的话，你就会把它带到非洲。”

‘Was Tobey here?’ asked Professor Porter.
“托比在这里吗？”波特教授问道。

‘Yes, I just left him. He and Esmeralda are exchanging religious experiences on the back porch now.’
‘是的，我刚刚离开了他。他和埃斯梅拉达现在正在后廊交流宗教经历。

‘Tut, tut, I must see him at once!’ cried the professor. ‘Excuse me just a moment, children,’ and the old man hastened from the room.
“哎呀，哎呀，我必须马上见到他！”教授喊道。 “对不起，孩子们，”老人赶紧离开房间。

As soon as he was out of earshot Canler turned to Jane.
坎勒一走出听力范围，就转向简。

‘See here, Jane,’ he said bluntly. ‘How long is this thing going on like this? You haven’t refused to marry me, but you haven’t promised either. I want to get the license tomorrow, so that we can be married quietly before you leave for Wisconsin. I don’t care for any fuss or feathers, and I’m sure you don’t either.’
“看这里，简，”他直言不讳地说。 ‘这样的事情要持续多久了？你没有拒绝嫁给我，但你也没有答应。我想明天拿到结婚证，这样我们就可以在你动身去威斯康星州之前悄悄地结婚了。我不喜欢任何大惊小怪或羽毛，我相信你也不会。

The girl turned cold, but she held her head bravely.
女孩脸色冰冷，但还是勇敢地抱住了头。

‘Your father wishes it, you know,’ added Canler.
“你知道，你父亲希望如此，”坎勒补充道。

‘Yes, I know.’
'是的，我知道。'

She spoke scarcely above a whisper.
她说话的声音几乎是低声细语。

‘Do you realize that you are buying me, Mr. Canler?’ she said finally, and in a cold, level voice. ‘Buying me for a few paltry dollars? Of course you do, Robert Canler, and the hope of just such a contingency was in your mind when you loaned papa the money for that hair-brained escapade, which but for a most mysterious circumstance would have been surprisingly successful.
“坎勒先生，你意识到你正在收买我吗？”她最后说道，声音冰冷、平静。 ‘用区区几块钱就买我？你当然知道，罗伯特·坎勒，当你借钱给爸爸进行那次疯狂的冒险时，你的心里就满怀希望，如果不是在最神秘的情况下，这次冒险会取得令人惊讶的成功。

‘But you, Mr. Canler, would have been the most surprised. You had no idea that the venture would succeed. You are too good a businessman for that. And you are too good a businessman to loan money for buried treasure seeking, or to loan money without security—unless you had some special object in view.
“但是坎勒先生，你可能会感到最惊讶。你不知道这次冒险会成功。你是一个太优秀的商人，不适合这样做。而且你是一个太优秀的商人，不会为了寻找埋藏的宝藏而借钱，或者在没有担保的情况下借钱——除非你有一些特殊的目标。

‘You knew that without security you had a greater hold on the honor of the Porters than with it. You knew the one best way to force me to marry you, without seeming to force me.
“你知道，在没有安全保障的情况下，你对搬运工的荣誉的把握比有安全保障时更大。你知道强迫我嫁给你的最好方法，但又不显得强迫我。

‘You have never mentioned the loan. In any other man I should have thought that the prompting of a magnanimous and noble character. But you are deep, Mr. Robert Canler. I know you better than you think I know you.
“你从来没有提到过贷款。”在任何其他人身上，我都会认为这是一种宽宏和高尚的品格。但你很深奥，罗伯特·坎勒先生。我比你想象的更了解你。

‘I shall certainly marry you if there is no other way, but let us understand each other once and for all.’
“如果没有其他办法，我一定会嫁给你，但让我们永远相互理解。”

While she spoke Robert Canler had alternately flushed and paled, and when she ceased speaking he arose, and with a cynical smile upon his strong face, said:
当她说话时，罗伯特·坎勒的脸色时而涨红，时而苍白，当她停止说话时，他站了起来，坚强的脸上带着愤世嫉俗的微笑，说道：

‘You surprise me, Jane. I thought you had more self-control —more pride. Of course you are right. I am buying you, and I knew that you knew it, but I thought you would prefer to pretend that it was otherwise. I should have thought your self respect and your Porter pride would have shrunk from admitting, even to yourself, that you were a bought woman. But have it your own way, dear girl,’ he added lightly. ‘I am going to have you, and that is all that interests me.’
“你让我很惊讶，简。我以为你有更多的自制力——更多的骄傲。你当然是对的。我正在收买你，我知道你知道这一点，但我认为你更愿意假装事实并非如此。我本以为你的自尊和你的波特自豪感会因为承认自己是一个被买来的女人而缩水。但你有你自己的方式，亲爱的女孩，”他轻轻地补充道。 “我会拥有你，这就是我唯一感兴趣的。”

Without a word the girl turned and left the room.
女孩二话不说，转身离开了房间。

Jane was not married before she left with her father and Esmeralda for her little Wisconsin farm, and as she coldly bid Robert Canler goodby as her train pulled out, he called to her that he would join them in a week or two.
简在与父亲和埃斯梅拉达前往威斯康星州的小农场之前尚未结婚，当她的火车离开时，当她冷冷地向罗伯特·坎勒告别时，他打电话给她说他将在一两周后加入他们。

At their destination they were met by Clayton and Mr. Philander in a huge touring car belonging to the former, and quickly whirled away through the dense northern woods toward the little farm which the girl had not visited before since childhood.
到达目的地后，克莱顿和菲兰德先生乘坐克莱顿的一辆巨大旅行车迎接了他们，然后迅速穿过北方茂密的树林，前往女孩从小到大都没有去过的小农场。

The farmhouse, which stood on a little elevation some hundred yards from the tenant house, had undergone a complete transformation during the three weeks that Clayton and Mr. Philander had been there.
农舍位于距租客房屋几百码的一个小高地上，在克莱顿和菲兰德先生住在那里的三个星期里，农舍经历了彻底的转变。

The former had imported a small army of carpenters and plasterers, plumbers and painters from a distant city, and what had been but a dilapidated shell when they reached it was now a cosy little two-story house filled with every modern convenience procurable in so short a time.
前者从一个遥远的城市引进了一小群木匠、泥水匠、水管工和油漆工，当他们到达时，这里只是一个破旧的外壳，现在是一栋舒适的两层小房子，里面装满了在如此短的时间内可以获得的所有现代便利设施。一次。

‘Why, Mr. Clayton, what have you done?’ cried Jane Porter, her heart sinking within her as she realized the probable size of the expenditure that had been made.
“为什么，克莱顿先生，你做了什么？”简·波特喊道，当她意识到所花费的开支可能有多大时，她的心沉了下去。

‘S-sh,’ cautioned Clayton. ‘Don’t let your father guess. If you don’t tell him he will never notice, and I simply couldn’t think of him living in the terrible squalor and sordidness which Mr. Philander and I found. It was so little when I would like to do so much, Jane. For his sake, please, never mention it.’
“嘘——”克莱顿警告道。 ‘别让你父亲猜到。如果你不告诉他，他永远不会注意到，我根本无法想象他生活在菲兰德先生和我发现的可怕的肮脏和肮脏之中。当我想做这么多事情时，却觉得事情太少了，简。为了他的缘故，请永远不要提这件事。”

‘But you know that we can’t repay you,’ cried the girl. ‘Why do you want to put me under such terrible obligations?’
“但你知道我们无法报答你，”女孩喊道。 “你为什么要让我承担如此可怕的义务？”

‘Don’t, Jane,’ said Clayton sadly. ‘If it had been just you, believe me, I wouldn’t have done it, for I knew from the start that it would only hurt me in your eyes, but I couldn’t think of that dear old man living in the hole we found here. Won’t you please believe that I did it just for him and give me that little crumb of pleasure at least?’
“别这样，简，”克莱顿悲伤地说。 “如果只是你，相信我，我不会这样做，因为我从一开始就知道这只会伤害你眼中的我，但我无法想象那个住在洞里的亲爱的老人我们在这里找到了。请你相信我这么做只是为了他，至少给我一点点快乐好吗？

‘I do believe you, Mr. Clayton,’ said the girl, ‘because I know you are big enough and generous enough to have done it just for him—and, oh Cecil, I wish I might repay you as you deserve—as you would wish.’
“我确实相信你，克莱顿先生，”女孩说，“因为我知道你足够大，足够慷慨，可以为他做这件事——哦，塞西尔，我希望我能报答你应得的——就像你会希望的。

‘Why can’t you, Jane?’
“为什么你不能，简？”

‘Because I love another.’
“因为我爱另一个人。”

‘Canler?’
“坎勒？”

‘No.’
'不。'

‘But you are going to marry him. He told me as much before I left Baltimore.’
‘但你要嫁给他。在我离开巴尔的摩之前，他也告诉了我很多。

The girl winced.
女孩皱起眉头。

‘I do not love him,’ she said, almost proudly.
“我不爱他，”她几乎自豪地说。

‘Is it because of the money, Jane?’
“是因为钱吗，简？”

She nodded.
她点点头。

‘Then am I so much less desirable than Canler? I have money enough, and far more, for every need,’ he said bitterly.
“那我是不是比坎勒更不受欢迎呢？”我有足够的钱，甚至更多，可以满足各种需要。”他痛苦地说。

‘I do not love you, Cecil,’ she said, ‘but I respect you. If I must disgrace myself by such a bargain with any man, I prefer that it be one I already despise. I should loathe the man to whom I sold myself without love, whomsoever he might be. You will be happier,’ she concluded, ‘alone—with my respect and friendship, than with me and my contempt.’
“我不爱你，塞西尔，”她说，“但我尊重你。”如果我必须与任何一个男人做这样的交易而让自己丢脸，我宁愿它是一个我已经鄙视的人。我应该厌恶那个我在没有爱的情况下把自己卖给他的人，无论他是谁。 “你会更快乐，”她总结道，“独自一人——有我的尊重和友谊，比和我和我的蔑视在一起更快乐。”

He did not press the matter further, but if ever a man had murder in his heart it was William Cecil Clayton, Lord Greystoke, when, a week later, Robert Canler drew up before the farmhouse in his purring six cylinder.
他没有进一步追问此事，但如果说有一个人心里有谋杀的话，那就是格雷斯托克勋爵威廉·塞西尔·克莱顿，一周后，罗伯特·坎勒开着他那辆发出咕噜声的六缸汽车停在农舍前。

A week passed; a tense, uneventful, but uncomfortable week for all the inmates of the little Wisconsin farmhouse.
一周过去了；对于威斯康星州小农舍的所有囚犯来说，这是紧张、平静但不舒服的一周。

Canler was insistent that Jane marry him at once.
坎勒坚持要简立即嫁给他。

At length she gave in from sheer loathing of the continued and hateful importuning.
最后，她因对持续不断的、可恨的纠缠的纯粹厌恶而屈服了。

It was agreed that on the morrow Canler was to drive to town and bring back the license and a minister.
双方商定，坎勒第二天将开车进城，带回驾照和一名部长。

Clayton had wanted to leave as soon as the plan was announced, but the girl’s tired, hopeless look kept him. He could not desert her.
计划一公布，克莱顿就想离开，但女孩疲惫而绝望的表情留住了他。他不能抛弃她。

Something might happen yet, he tried to console himself by thinking. And in his heart, he knew that it would require but a tiny spark to turn his hatred for Canler into the blood lust of the killer.
可能还会有什么事情发生吧，他试图安慰自己。而在他心里，他知道只需要一点点火花，他对坎勒的仇恨就会变成杀手的嗜血。

Early the next morning Canler set out for town.
第二天一早，坎勒出发进城。

In the east smoke could be seen lying low over the forest, for a fire had been raging for a week not far from them, but the wind still lay in the west and no danger threatened them.
在东边，可以看到森林上空低低地冒着浓烟，因为离他们不远的地方，一场大火已经肆虐了一个星期，但风仍然吹向西边，没有危险威胁到他们。

About noon Jane started off for a walk. She would not let Clayton accompany her. She wanted to be alone, she said, and he respected her wishes.
中午时分，简出发去散步。她不会让克莱顿陪她。她说，她想一个人呆着，他尊重她的意愿。

In the house Professor Porter and Mr. Philander were immersed in an absorbing discussion of some weighty scientific problem. Esmeralda dozed in the kitchen, and Clayton, heavy-eyed after a sleepless night, threw himself down upon the couch in the living room and soon dropped into a fitful slumber.
在屋子里，波特教授和菲兰德先生正沉浸在对一些重大科学问题的有趣讨论中。埃斯梅拉达在厨房里打瞌睡，而克莱顿在经历了一夜无眠之后眼睛睁得很大，倒在客厅的沙发上，很快就陷入了断断续续的睡眠中。

To the east the black smoke clouds rose higher into the heavens, suddenly they eddied, and then commenced to drift rapidly toward the west.
东方的黑烟云升到了更高的天空，突然卷起漩涡，然后开始快速向西方飘去。

On and on they came. The inmates of the tenant house were gone, for it was market day, and none was there to see the rapid approach of the fiery demon.
他们不断地来。租客们都走了，因为今天是集市日，没有人在场看到火魔的快速逼近。

Soon the flames had spanned the road to the south and cut off Canler’s return. A little fluctuation of the wind now carried the path of the forest fire to the north, then blew back and the flames nearly stood still as though held in leash by some master hand.
很快，火焰就蔓延到了向南的道路，切断了坎勒的归路。风的轻微波动将森林大火的路径吹向北方，然后又吹回来，火焰几乎静止不动，就像被某位大师拴住了一样。

Suddenly, out of the northeast, a great black car came careening down the road.
突然，一辆黑色大车从东北方向冲了过来。

With a jolt it stopped before the cottage, and a black-haired giant leaped out to run up onto the porch. Without a pause he rushed into the house. On the couch lay Clayton. The man started in surprise, but with a bound was at the side of the sleeping man.
一阵颠簸，车子停在了小屋前，一个黑发巨人跳了出来，跑到了门廊上。他没有任何停留，就冲进了屋子。克莱顿躺在沙发上。那人吃了一惊，但一跳就到了熟睡的人身边。

Shaking him roughly by the shoulder, he cried:
他用力摇晃他的肩膀，大声喊道：

‘My God, Clayton, are you all mad here? Don’t you know you are nearly surrounded by fire? Where is Miss Porter?’
“天哪，克莱顿，你们都疯了吗？难道你不知道你快被火包围了吗？波特小姐在哪儿？

Clayton sprang to his feet. He did not recognize the man, but he understood the words and was upon the veranda in a bound.
克莱顿跳了起来。他不认识这个人，但听懂了话，一蹦就到了阳台上。

‘Scott!’ he cried, and then, dashing back into the house, ‘Jane! Jane! where are you?’
“斯科特！”他喊道，然后冲回屋里，“简！简！你在哪里？'

In an instant Esmeralda, Professor Porter and Mr. Philander had joined the two men.
立刻，埃斯梅拉达、波特教授和菲兰德先生加入了这两个人的行列。

‘Where is Miss Jane?’ cried Clayton, seizing Esmeralda by the shoulders and shaking her roughly.
“简小姐在哪儿？”克莱顿喊道，抓住埃斯梅拉达的肩膀，粗暴地摇晃着她。

‘Oh, Gaberelle, Mister Clayton, she done gone for a walk.’
“哦，加贝雷尔，克莱顿先生，她出去散步了。”

‘Hasn’t she come back yet?’ and, without waiting for a reply, Clayton dashed out into the yard, followed by the others. ‘Which way did she go?’ cried the black-haired giant of Esmeralda.
“她还没回来吗？”不等克莱顿回答，就冲进了院子，其他人也跟着冲了出去。 “她往哪边走？”埃斯梅拉达的黑发巨人喊道。

‘Down that road,’ cried the frightened woman, pointing toward the south where a mighty wall of roaring flames shut out the view.
“沿着那条路走，”那个受惊的女人喊道，她指着南方，那里有一堵巨大的熊熊火墙挡住了视线。

‘Put these people in the other car,’ shouted the stranger to Clayton. ‘I saw one as I drove up—and get them out of here by the north road.
“把这些人放到另一辆车里，”陌生人对克莱顿喊道。 “我开车过去时看到了一个——然后把他们从北路带离这里。

‘Leave my car here. If I find Miss Porter we shall need it. If I don’t, no one will need it. Do as I say,’ as Clayton hesitated, and then they saw the lithe figure bound away cross the clearing toward the northwest where the forest still stood, untouched by flame.
‘把我的车停在这里。如果我找到波特小姐，我们就会需要它。如果我不这样做，没有人会需要它。克莱顿犹豫了一下，然后他们看到那个轻盈的身影穿过空地，向西北方向走去，那里的森林仍然矗立着，没有受到火焰的影响。

In each rose the unaccountable feeling that a great responsibility had been raised from their shoulders; a kind of implicit confidence in the power of the stranger to save Jane if she could be saved.
每朵玫瑰都带着一种莫名其妙的感觉，觉得肩上肩上担负着巨大的责任。一种隐含的信心，相信陌生人有能力拯救简，如果她能得救的话。

‘Who was that?’ asked Professor Porter.
“那是谁？”波特教授问道。

‘I do not know,’ replied Clayton. ‘He called me by name and he knew Jane, for he asked for her. And he called Esmeralda by name.’
“我不知道，”克莱顿回答道。 “他叫出了我的名字，他认识简，因为他找过她。他直呼埃斯梅拉达的名字。

‘There was something most startlingly familiar about him,’ exclaimed Mr. Philander, ‘And yet, bless me, I know I never saw him before.’
“他身上有一种令人惊讶的熟悉感，”菲兰德先生惊呼道，“然而，天哪，我知道我以前从未见过他。”

‘Tut, tut!’ cried Professor Porter. ‘Most remarkable! Who could it have been, and why do I feel that Jane is safe, now that he has set out in search of her?’
“嘘，嘘！”波特教授喊道。 ‘最了不起！会是谁？既然他已经出发去寻找简，为什么我觉得简很安全？

‘I can’t tell you, Professor,’ said Clayton soberly, ‘but I know I have the same uncanny feeling.’
“我不能告诉你，教授，”克莱顿严肃地说，“但我知道我也有同样的不可思议的感觉。”

‘But come,’ he cried, ‘we must get out of here ourselves, or we shall be shut off,’ and the party hastened toward Clayton’s car.
“但是来吧，”他喊道，“我们必须自己离开这里，否则我们就会被封锁。”一行人急忙朝克莱顿的车走去。

When Jane turned to retrace her steps homeward, she was alarmed to note how near the smoke of the forest fire seemed, and as she hastened onward her alarm became almost a panic when she perceived that the rushing flames were rapidly forcing their way between herself and the cottage.
当简转身原路返回时，她惊讶地发现森林大火的烟雾似乎离她如此之近，当她加快脚步时，当她意识到汹涌的火焰正在迅速从她和她之间冲过来时，她的惊慌几乎变成了恐慌。小屋。

At length she was compelled to turn into the dense thicket and attempt to force her way to the west in an effort to circle around the flames and reach the house.
最后，她被迫转入茂密的灌木丛，试图强行向西行进，试图绕过火焰到达房子。

In a short time the futility of her attempt became apparent and then her one hope lay in retracing her steps to the road and flying for her life to the south toward the town.
很快，她的尝试就显得徒劳无功了，于是她唯一的希望就是沿着大路返回，逃命地飞向南方的城镇。

The twenty minutes that it took her to regain the road was all that had been needed to cut off her retreat as effectually as her advance had been cut off before.
她重新恢复道路只需要二十分钟，就可以像之前切断前进一样有效地切断她的退路。

A short run down the road brought her to a horrified stand, for there before her was another wall of flame. An arm of the main conflagration had shot out a half mile south of its parent to embrace this tiny strip of road in its implacable clutches.
沿着路跑了一小段，她就惊恐地站在原地，因为她面前是另一堵火墙。主大火的一支手臂已经从其母体以南半英里处喷出，将这条狭小的道路牢牢地握在手中。

Jane knew that it was useless again to attempt to force her way through the undergrowth.
简知道再次试图强行穿过灌木丛是没有用的。

She had tried it once, and failed. Now she realized that it would be but a matter of minutes ere the whole space between the north and the south would be a seething mass of billowing flames.
她曾经尝试过一次，但失败了。现在她意识到，只需要几分钟的时间，南北之间的整个空间就会变成一团沸腾的滚滚火焰。

Calmly the girl kneeled down in the dust of the roadway and prayed for strength to meet her fate bravely, and for the delivery of her father and her friends from death.
女孩平静地跪在巷道的尘土中，祈祷有力量勇敢地面对命运，祈求将父亲和朋友从死亡中解救出来。

Suddenly she heard her name being called aloud through the forest:
突然，她听到森林里有人大声喊她的名字：

‘Jane! Jane Porter!’ It rang strong and clear, but in a strange voice.
‘简！简·波特！”声音响亮而清晰，但声音很奇怪。

‘Here!’ she called in reply. ‘Here! In the roadway!’
“在这里！”她回答道。 '这里！在马路上！”

Then through the branches of the trees she saw a figure swinging with the speed of a squirrel.
然后透过树枝，她看到一个人影以松鼠的速度摆动。

A veering of the wind blew a cloud of smoke about them and she could no longer see the man who was speeding toward her, but suddenly she felt a great arm about her. Then she was lifted up, and she felt the rushing of the wind and the occasional brush of a branch as she was borne along.
风向转向，在他们周围吹起一团烟雾，她再也看不到那个向她疾驰而来的男人了，但突然她感觉到一只巨大的手臂搂住了她。然后她被举了起来，她感觉到风的呼啸声和树枝偶尔的拂过声。

She opened her eyes.
她睁开了眼睛。

Far below her lay the undergrowth and the hard earth.
她下面很远的地方是灌木丛和坚硬的土地。

About her was the waving foliage of the forest.
她周围是森林里摇曳的树叶。

From tree to tree swung the giant figure which bore her, and it seemed to Jane that she was living over in a dream the experience that had been hers in that far African jungle.
载着她的巨大身影从一棵树摇到另一棵树，简觉得她仿佛在梦中重温她在那片遥远的非洲丛林中的经历。

Oh, if it were but the same man who had borne her so swiftly through the tangled verdure on that other day! but that was impossible! Yet who else in all the world was there with the strength and agility to do what this man was now doing?
哦，如果是那天带着她如此迅速地穿过那片纠结的绿地的那个男人该多好啊！但这是不可能的！然而，世界上还有谁有力量和敏捷去做这个人现在正在做的事情呢？

She stole a sudden glance at the face close to hers, and then she gave a little frightened gasp. It was he!
她突然偷偷地瞥了一眼靠近自己的脸，然后吓得倒吸了一口冷气。是他！

‘My forest man!’ she murmured, ‘No, I must be delerious!’
“我的森林人！”她低声说道，“不，我一定是疯了！”

‘Yes, your man, Jane Porter. Your savage, primeval man come out of the jungle to claim his mate—the woman who ran away from him,’ he added almost fiercely.
“是的，你的男人，简·波特。你的野蛮、原始的男人从丛林中走出来，来寻找他的伴侣——那个逃离他的女人。”他几乎是凶狠地补充道。

‘I did not run away,’ she whispered. ‘I would only consent to leave when they had waited a week for you to return.’
“我没有逃跑，”她低声说道。 “只有当他们等你回来一周后我才会同意离开。”

They had come to a point beyond the fire now, and he had turned back to the clearing.
他们现在已经到了火场之外的地方，他也转身回到了空地。

Side by side they were walking toward the cottage. The wind had changed once more and the fire was burning back upon itself—another hour like that and it would be burned out.
他们并肩朝小屋走去。风向又变了，火又重新燃烧起来——再过一个小时，它就会被烧灭。

‘Why did you not return?’ she asked.
“你为什么不回来？”她问。

‘I was nursing D’Arnot. He was badly wounded.’
“我正在护理达诺特。他受了重伤。

‘Ah, I knew it!’ she exclaimed.
“啊，我就知道了！”她惊呼道。

‘They said you had gone to join the blacks—that they were your people.’
“他们说你加入了黑人——他们是你的人民。”

He laughed.
他笑了。

‘But you did not believe them, Jane?’
“但是你不相信他们，简？”

‘No;—what shall I call you?’ she asked. ‘What is your name?’
“不，——我该怎么称呼你呢？”她问道。 '你叫什么名字？'

‘I was Tarzan of the Apes when you first knew me,’ he said.
“当你第一次认识我时，我是人猿泰山，”他说。

‘Tarzan of the Apes!’ she cried—‘and that was your note I answered when I left?’
“人猿泰山！”她喊道，“这就是我离开时给你回的字条？”

‘Yes, whose did you think it was?’
“是的，你认为这是谁的？”

‘I did not know; only that it could not be yours, for Tarzan of the Apes had written in English, and you could not understand a word of any language.’
'我不知道;只是它不可能是你的，因为人猿泰山是用英语写的，你无法理解任何语言的单词。

Again he laughed.
他又笑了。

‘It is a long story, but it was I who wrote what I could not speak—and now D’Arnot has made matters worse by teaching me to speak French instead of English.
“这是一个很长的故事，但我写下了我不会说的东西——现在达诺特教我说法语而不是英语，这让事情变得更糟。

‘Come,’ he added, ‘jump into my car, we must overtake your father, they are only a little way ahead.’
“来吧，”他补充道，“跳进我的车，我们必须超越你父亲，他们只领先了一点点。”

As they drove along, he said:
当他们开车时，他说：

‘Then when you said in your note to Tarzan of the Apes that you loved another—you might have meant me?’
“那么，当你在给人猿泰山的便条中说你爱另一个人时——你可能指的是我？”

‘I might have,’ she answered, simply.
“我可能会，”她简单地回答。

‘But in Baltimore—Oh, how I have searched for you—they told me you would possibly be married by now. That a man named Canler had come up here to wed you. Is that true?’
“但是在巴尔的摩——哦，我费尽心思寻找你——他们告诉我你现在可能已经结婚了。”一个叫坎勒的男人来这里是为了和你结婚。真的吗？'

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘Do you love him?’
'你爱他吗？'

‘No.’
'不。'

‘Do you love me?’
'你爱我吗？'

She buried her face in her hands.
她把脸埋在双手里。

‘I am promised to another. I cannot answer you, Tarzan of the Apes,’ she cried.
‘我被许诺给另一个人。我无法回答你，人猿泰山，”她喊道。

‘You have answered. Now, tell me why you would marry one you do not love.’
‘你已经回答了。现在，告诉我为什么你会嫁给一个你不爱的人。

‘My father owes him money.’
“我父亲欠他钱。”

Suddenly there came back to Tarzan the memory of the letter he had read—and the name Robert Canler and the hinted trouble which he had been unable to understand then.
突然，泰山想起了他读过的那封信——还有罗伯特·坎勒这个名字，以及他当时无法理解的暗示的麻烦。

He smiled.
他笑了。

‘If your father had not lost the treasure you would not feel forced to keep your promise to this man Canler?’
“如果你的父亲没有失去宝藏，你不会感到被迫遵守对坎勒这个人的承诺吗？”

‘I could ask him to release me.’
“我可以要求他释放我。”

‘And if he refused?’
“如果他拒绝呢？”

‘I have given my promise.’
“我已经做出了承诺。”

He was silent for a moment. The car was plunging along the uneven road at a reckless pace, for the fire showed threateningly at their right, and another change of the wind might sweep it on with raging fury across this one avenue of escape.
他沉默了一会儿。汽车以鲁莽的速度沿着崎岖不平的道路猛冲过去，因为火势在他们的右侧出现，威胁着他们，风向的另一次变化可能会带着愤怒的愤怒将它扫过这条逃生大道。

Finally they passed the danger point, and Tarzan reduced their speed.
终于他们过了危险点，泰山降低了速度。

‘Suppose I should ask him?’ ventured Tarzan.
“我应该问他吗？”泰山大胆地说。

‘He would scarcely accede to the demand of a stranger,’ said the girl. ‘Especially one who wanted me himself.’
“他几乎不会答应陌生人的要求，”女孩说。 “尤其是一个想要我本人的人。”

‘Terkoz did,’ said Tarzan, grimly.
“泰尔科兹做到了，”泰山冷酷地说。

Jane shuddered and looked fearfully up at the giant figure beside her, for she knew that he meant the great anthropoid he had killed in her defense.
简浑身颤抖，抬头恐惧地看着她身边的巨人，因为她知道他指的是他为了保护她而杀死的巨型类人猿。

‘This is not the African jungle,’ she said. ‘You are no longer a savage beast. You are a gentleman, and gentlemen do not kill in cold blood.’
“这不是非洲丛林，”她说。 ‘你不再是野兽了。你是一位绅士，绅士不会冷血杀人。”

‘I am still a wild beast at heart,’ he said, in a low voice, as though to himself.
“我骨子里还是一头野兽，”他低声说道，仿佛自言自语。

Again they were silent for a time.
他们又沉默了一会儿。

‘Jane,’ said the man, at length, ‘if you were free, would you marry me?’
“简，”男人最后说道，“如果你有空，你愿意嫁给我吗？”

She did not reply at once, but he waited patiently.
她没有立即回复，但他耐心地等待着。

The girl was trying to collect her thoughts.
女孩努力整理思绪。

What did she know of this strange creature at her side? What did he know of himself? Who was he? Who, his parents?
她对身边这个奇怪的生物了解多少？他对自己了解多少？他是谁？谁，他的父母？

Why, his very name echoed his mysterious origin and his savage life.
哎呀，他的名字就呼应了他神秘的出身和野蛮的生活。

He had no name. Could she be happy with this jungle waif? Could she find anything in common with a husband whose life had been spent in the tree tops of an African wilderness, frolicking and fighting with fierce anthropoids; tearing his food from the quivering flank of fresh-killed prey, sinking his strong teeth into raw flesh, and tearing away his portion while his mates growled and fought about him for their share?
他没有名字。她会对这个丛林流浪儿感到满意吗？她的丈夫一生都在非洲荒野的树顶上度过，与凶猛的类人猿嬉戏打斗，她能找到任何共同点吗？从刚杀死的猎物颤抖的侧腹上撕下食物，用坚固的牙齿咬住生肉，在他的同伴咆哮并为争夺自己的份额而争夺他的份额时夺走他的份额？

Could he ever rise to her social sphere? Could she bear to think of sinking to his? Would either be happy in such a horrible misalliance?
他能跻身她的社交圈子吗？她能忍受沉溺于他的怀抱吗？在如此可怕的不正当关系中，他们会感到高兴吗？

‘You do not answer,’ he said. ‘Do you shrink from wounding me?’
“你不回答，”他说。 “你害怕伤害我吗？”

‘I do not know what answer to make,’ said Jane sadly. ‘I do not know my own mind.’
“我不知道该怎么回答，”简悲伤地说。 “我不知道自己的想法。”

‘You do not love me, then?’ he asked, in a level tone.
“那么你不爱我了？”他用平淡的语气问道。

‘Do not ask me. You will be happier without me. You were never meant for the formal restrictions and conventionalities of society—civilization would become irksome to you, and in a little while you would long for the freedom of your old life—a life to which I am as totally unfitted as you to mine.’
'别问我。没有我你会更幸福。你从来就不适合社会的正式限制和习俗——文明会让你感到厌烦，过不了多久你就会渴望过去的自由生活——我和你一样完全不适合我的生活。 '

‘I think I understand you,’ he replied quietly. ‘I shall not urge you, for I would rather see you happy than to be happy myself. I see now that you could not be happy with—an ape.’
“我想我理解你。”他平静地回答。 “我不会催促你，因为我宁愿看到你幸福，也不愿我自己幸福。”我现在明白了，你不会对——一只猩猩感到满意。

There was just the faintest tinge of bitterness in his voice.
他的声音里只带着一丝淡淡的苦涩。

‘Don’t,’ she remonstrated. ‘Don’t say that. You do not understand.’
“别这样，”她抗议道。 ‘别这么说。你不明白。'

But before she could go on a sudden turn in the road brought them into the midst of a little hamlet.
但还没等她继续前进，道路突然转弯，他们来到了一个小村庄的中间。

Before them stood Clayton’s car surrounded by the party he had brought from the cottage.
他们面前停着克莱顿的车，周围是他从小屋带来的派对。

Chapter 28
第28章


Conclusion
结论

At the sight of Jane, cries of relief and delight broke from every lip, and as Tarzan’s car stopped beside the other, Professor Porter caught his daughter in his arms.
一看到简，每个人都发出宽慰和喜悦的叫声，当泰山的车停在另一辆车旁边时，波特教授一把抱住了他的女儿。

For a moment no one noticed Tarzan, sitting silently in his seat.
一时间没有人注意到泰山，静静地坐在座位上。

Clayton was the first to remember, and, turning, held out his hand.
克莱顿是第一个想起来的人，他转身伸出了手。

‘How can we ever thank you?’ he exclaimed. ‘You have saved us all. You called me by name at the cottage, but I do not seem to recall yours, though there is something very familiar about you. It is as though I had known you well under very different conditions a long time ago.’
“我们该如何感谢你呢？”他喊道。 ‘你拯救了我们所有人。你在小屋里叫过我的名字，但我似乎不记得你的名字，尽管你有一些非常熟悉的地方。就好像我很久以前就在非常不同的条件下很了解你一样。

Tarzan smiled as he took the proffered hand.
泰山微笑着握住了伸出的手。

‘You are quite right, Monsieur Clayton,’ he said, in French. ‘You will pardon me if I do not speak to you in English. I am just learning it, and while I understand it fairly well I speak it very poorly.’
“你说得很对，克莱顿先生，”他用法语说道。 “如果我不用英语和你说话，请原谅我。我刚刚学习它，虽然我理解得相当好，但说得很差。”

‘But who are you?’ insisted Clayton, speaking in French this time himself.
“但是你是谁？”克莱顿坚持问道，这次他自己用法语说话。

‘Tarzan of the Apes.’
“人猿泰山”。

Clayton started back in surprise.
克莱顿惊讶地回头。

‘By Jove!’ he exclaimed. ‘It is true.’
“天啊！”他喊道。 '是真的。'

And Professor Porter and Mr. Philander pressed forward to add their thanks to Clayton’s, and to voice their surprise and pleasure at seeing their jungle friend so far from his savage home.
波特教授和菲兰德先生上前向克莱顿表示感谢，并表示看到他们的丛林朋友远离他的野蛮家园感到惊讶和高兴。

The party now entered the modest little hostelry, where Clayton soon made arrangements for their entertainment.
一行人现在进入了简陋的小旅馆，克莱顿很快就在那里安排了他们的娱乐活动。

They were sitting in the little, stuffy parlor when the distant chugging of an approaching automobile caught their attention.
他们正坐在狭小、闷热的客厅里，远处一辆驶来的汽车的嘎嘎声引起了他们的注意。

Mr. Philander, who was sitting near the window, looked out as the car drew in sight, finally stopping beside the other automobiles.
菲兰德先生坐在靠近窗户的地方，当汽车驶入视线时，他向外望去，最后停在了其他汽车旁边。

‘Bless me!’ said Mr. Philander, a shade of annoyance in his tone. ‘It is Mr. Canler. I had hoped, er—I had thought or—er—how very happy we should be that he was not caught in the fire,’ he ended lamely.
“上帝保佑我！”菲兰德先生说道，语气中带着一丝恼怒。 “是坎勒先生。”我曾希望，呃——我曾想过，或者——呃——他没有被火烧死，我们应该感到多么高兴，”他蹩脚地结束了。

‘Tut, tut! Mr. Philander,’ said Professor Porter. ‘Tut, tut! I have often admonished my pupils to count ten before speaking. Were I you, Mr. Philander, I should count at least a thousand, and then maintain a discreet silence.’
'啧啧啧！菲兰德先生，”波特教授说。 '啧啧啧！我经常告诫我的学生在说话之前数到十。菲兰德先生，如果我是你，我至少应该数到一千，然后保持谨慎的沉默。

‘Bless me, yes!’ acquiesced Mr. Philander. ‘But who is the clerical appearing gentleman with him?’
“祝福我，是的！”菲兰德先生默认了。 “但是和他一起的那位看上去像牧师的绅士是谁呢？”

Jane blanched.
简脸色煞白。

Clayton moved uneasily in his chair.
克莱顿在椅子上不安地移动着。

Professor Porter removed his spectacles nervously, and breathed upon them, but replaced them on his nose without wiping.
波特教授紧张地摘下眼镜，对着眼镜吹了一口气，但没有擦拭就把眼镜放回了鼻子上。

The ubiquitous Esmeralda grunted.
无处不在的艾斯梅拉达咕哝着。

Only Tarzan did not comprehend.
只有泰山不明白。

Presently Robert Canler burst into the room.
不久罗伯特·坎勒冲进了房间。

‘Thank God!’ he cried. ‘I feared the worst, until I saw your car, Clayton. I was cut off on the south road and had to go away back to town, and then strike east to this road. I thought we’d never reach the cottage.’
“感谢上帝！”他喊道。 “我担心最坏的情况，直到我看到你的车，克莱顿。我在南路上被堵住了，不得不回城，然后向东走到这条路。我以为我们永远不会到达小屋。

No one seemed to enthuse much. Tarzan eyed Robert Canler as Sabor eyes her prey.
似乎没有人对此表现出太大的热情。泰山看着罗伯特·坎勒，就像萨博尔看着她的猎物一样。

Jane glanced at him and coughed nervously.
简看了他一眼，紧张地咳嗽了一声。

‘Mr. Canler,’ she said, ‘this is Monsieur Tarzan, an old friend.’
'先生。坎勒，”她说，“这是泰山先生，一位老朋友。”

Canler turned and extended his hand. Tarzan rose and bowed as only D’Arnot could have taught a gentleman to do it, but he did not seem to see Canler’s hand.
坎勒转身伸出手。泰山站起来鞠了一躬，因为只有达诺特才能教绅士这样做，但他似乎没有看到坎勒的手。

Nor did Canler appear to notice the oversight.
坎勒似乎也没有注意到这一疏忽。

‘This is the Reverend Mr. Tousley, Jane,’ said Canler, turning to the clerical party behind him. ‘Mr. Tousley, Miss Porter.’
“这是图斯利牧师先生，简，”坎勒转向他身后的牧师队伍说道。 '先生。图斯利，波特小姐。

Mr. Tousley bowed and beamed.
图斯利先生鞠躬，微笑着。

Canler introduced him to the others.
坎勒把他介绍给其他人。

‘We can have the ceremony at once, Jane,’ said Canler. ‘Then you and I can catch the midnight train in town.’
“我们可以立即举行仪式，简，”坎勒说。 “然后你和我就可以赶上城里的午夜火车了。”

Tarzan understood the plan instantly. He glanced out of half-closed eyes at Jane, but he did not move.
泰山立刻明白了这个计划。他半闭着眼睛看了简然一眼，但没有动。

The girl hesitated. The room was tense with the silence of taut nerves.
女孩犹豫了。房间里鸦雀无声，气氛紧张。

All eyes turned toward Jane, awaiting her reply.
所有人的目光都集中在简的身上，等待着她的回答。

‘Can’t we wait a few days?’ she asked. ‘I am all unstrung. I have been through so much today.’
“我们就不能等几天吗？”她问。 ‘我浑身都没有力气。我今天经历了很多事情。

Canler felt the hostility that emanated from each member of the party. It made him angry.
坎勒感受到了每个党员身上散发出的敌意。这让他很生气。

‘We have waited as long as I intend to wait,’ he said roughly. ‘You have promised to marry me. I shall be played with no longer. I have the license and here is the preacher. Come Mr. Tousley; come Jane. There are plenty of witnesses —more than enough,’ he added with a disagreeable inflection; and taking Jane Porter by the arm, he started to lead her toward the waiting minister.
“我想等多久，我们就等多久。”他粗声粗气地说。 ‘你已经答应嫁给我了。我不会再被玩弄了。我有执照，这是传道人。来吧，图斯利先生；来吧，简。有很多证人——绰绰有余，”他用令人不快的语气补充道。他拉着简·波特的手臂，开始领着她走向等待的牧师。

But scarcely had he taken a single step ere a heavy hand closed upon his arm with a grip of steel.
但他刚迈出一步，一只粗大的手就紧紧握住了他的手臂。

Another hand shot to his throat and in a moment he was being shaken high above the floor, as a cat might shake a mouse.
另一只手伸向他的喉咙，瞬间他就被摇晃到了地板上方，就像猫摇晃老鼠一样。

Jane turned in horrified surprise toward Tarzan.
简惊恐地转向泰山。

And, as she looked into his face, she saw the crimson band upon his forehead that she had seen that other day in far distant Africa, when Tarzan of the Apes had closed in mortal combat with the great anthropoid—Terkoz.
当她看着他的脸时，她看到了他额头上的深红色带子，那是她前几天在遥远的非洲看到的，当时人猿泰山与伟大的类人猿泰尔科兹进行了殊死搏斗。

She knew that murder lay in that savage heart, and with a little cry of horror she sprang forward to plead with the ape-man. But her fears were more for Tarzan than for Canler. She realized the stern retribution which justice metes to the murderer.
她知道那颗野蛮的心里藏着谋杀，她惊恐地叫了一声，跳上前去向猿人求情。但她更担心泰山而不是坎勒。她意识到正义会给凶手带来严厉的报应。

Before she could reach them, however, Clayton had jumped to Tarzan’s side and attempted to drag Canler from his grasp.
然而，在她到达他们身边之前，克莱顿跳到了泰山的身边，试图将坎勒从他的手中拉出来。

With a single sweep of one mighty arm the Englishman was hurled across the room, and then Jane laid a firm white hand upon Tarzan’s wrist, and looked up into his eyes.
一只有力的手臂一挥，英国人就被扔到了房间的另一边，然后简用一只苍白的手坚定地放在泰山的手腕上，抬头看着他的眼睛。

‘For my sake,’ she said.
“为了我，”她说。

The grasp upon Canler’s throat relaxed.
掐住坎勒喉咙的手松开了。

Tarzan looked down into the beautiful face before him.
泰山低头看着面前这张美丽的脸。

‘Do you wish this to live?’ he asked in surprise.
“你希望它活下去吗？”他惊讶地问道。

‘I do not wish him to die at your hands, my friend,’ she replied. ‘I do not wish you to become a murderer.’
“我不希望他死在你手里，我的朋友，”她回答道。 “我不希望你成为杀人犯。”

Tarzan removed his hand from Canler’s throat.
泰山把手从坎勒喉咙上拿开。

‘Do you release her from her promise?’ he asked. ‘It is the price of your life.’
“你会解除她的诺言吗？”他问道。 “这是你生命的代价。”

Canler, gasping for breath, nodded.
坎勒气喘吁吁地点点头。

‘Will you go away and never molest her further?’
“你能走开，不再骚扰她吗？”

Again the man nodded his head, his face distorted by fear of the death that had been so close.
那人再次点了点头，他的脸由于对死亡如此接近的恐惧而扭曲。

Tarzan released him, and Canler staggered toward the door. In another moment he was gone, and the terrorstricken preacher with him.
泰山放开了他，坎勒摇摇晃晃地走向门口。过了一会儿，他就消失了，惊恐万状的传教士也跟着消失了。

Tarzan turned toward Jane.
泰山转向简。

‘May I speak with you for a moment, alone,’ he asked.
“我可以和你单独谈谈吗？”他问道。

The girl nodded and started toward the door leading to the narrow veranda of the little hotel. She passed out to await Tarzan and so did not hear the conversation which followed.
女孩点点头，朝通往小旅馆狭窄阳台的门走去。她昏过去等待泰山，所以没有听到接下来的谈话。

‘Wait,’ cried Professor Porter, as Tarzan was about to follow.
“等等，”波特教授喊道，泰山正要跟上。

The professor had been stricken dumb with surprise by the rapid developments of the past few minutes.
教授被这几分钟的迅速发展惊得目瞪口呆。

‘Before we go further, sir, I should like an explanation of the events which have just transpired. By what right, sir, did you interfere between my daughter and Mr. Canler? I had promised him her hand, sir, and regardless of our personal likes or dislikes, sir, that promise must be kept.’
“在我们进一步讨论之前，先生，我想对刚刚发生的事件做出解释。先生，您凭什么干涉我女儿和坎勒先生之间的事？我已经向他许诺了她的手，先生，无论我们个人喜欢或不喜欢，先生，这个承诺都必须遵守。

‘I interfered, Professor Porter,’ replied Tarzan, ‘because your daughter does not love Mr. Canler—she does not wish to marry him. That is enough for me to know.’
“我干涉了，波特教授，”泰山回答道，“因为你的女儿不爱坎勒先生——她不想嫁给他。我知道这一点就足够了。

‘You do not know what you have done,’ said Professor Porter. ‘Now he will doubtless refuse to marry her.’
“你不知道自己做了什么，”波特教授说。 “现在他无疑会拒绝娶她。”

‘He most certainly will,’ said Tarzan, emphatically.
“他肯定会的，”泰山强调道。

‘And further,’ added Tarzan, ‘you need not fear that your pride will suffer, Professor Porter, for you will be able to pay the Canler person what you owe him the moment you reach home.’
“此外，”泰山补充道，“波特教授，你不必担心你的自尊心会受到损害，因为你一到家就可以向坎勒人偿还你欠他的钱。”

‘Tut, tut, sir!’ exclaimed Professor Porter. ‘What do you mean, sir?’
“哎呀，哎呀，先生！”波特教授惊呼道。 “您是什么意思，先生？”

‘Your treasure has been found,’ said Tarzan.
“你的宝藏已经找到了，”泰山说道。

‘What—what is that you are saying?’ cried the professor. ‘You are mad, man. It cannot be.’
“你——你在说什么？”教授叫道。 ‘你疯了，伙计。它不可能是。'

‘It is, though. It was I who stole it, not knowing either its value or to whom it belonged. I saw the sailors bury it, and, ape-like, I had to dig it up and bury it again elsewhere. When D’Arnot told me what it was and what it meant to you I returned to the jungle and recovered it. It had caused so much crime and suffering and sorrow that D’Arnot thought it best not to attempt to bring the treasure itself on here, as had been my intention, so I have brought a letter of credit instead.
” “不过确实如此。是我偷了它，我不知道它的价值，也不知道它属于谁。我看到水手们把它埋了，我只好像猿猴一样把它挖出来，再埋在别处。当达诺特告诉我它是什么以及它对你意味着什么时，我回到丛林并找到了它。它造成了如此多的犯罪、痛苦和悲伤，以至于达诺特认为最好不要试图将宝藏本身带到这里，正如我的意图一样，所以我带来了一张信用证。

‘Here it is, Professor Porter,’ and Tarzan drew an envelope from his pocket and handed it to the astonished professor, ‘two hundred and forty-one thousand dollars. The treasure was most carefully appraised by experts, but lest there should be any question in your mind, D’Arnot himself bought it and is holding it for you, should you prefer the treasure to the credit.’
“这是，波特教授，”泰山从口袋里掏出一个信封，递给惊讶的教授，“二十四万一千美元。”这件宝藏经过了专家的仔细鉴定，但为了避免你心中有任何疑问，达诺特亲自买下了它，并为你保管着它，如果你更喜欢宝藏而不是赊账的话。

‘To the already great burden of the obligations we owe you, sir,’ said Professor Porter, with trembling voice, ‘is now added this greatest of all services. You have given me the means to save my honor.’
“先生，我们已经对您承担了巨大的义务，”波特教授声音颤抖地说，“现在又增加了这项最伟大的服务。你给了我拯救我荣誉的方法。

Clayton, who had left the room a moment after Canler, now returned.
克莱顿在坎勒之后离开了房间，现在又回来了。

‘Pardon me,’ he said. ‘I think we had better try to reach town before dark and take the first train out of this forest. A native just rode by from the north, who reports that the fire is moving slowly in this direction.’
“请原谅，”他说。 “我想我们最好在天黑之前到达城镇，乘坐第一趟离开这片森林的火车。一位当地人刚刚从北方骑马经过，他报告说火势正在向这个方向缓慢移动。

This announcement broke up further conversation, and the entire party went out to the waiting automobiles.
这一宣布打断了进一步的谈话，整个聚会都走向了等候的汽车。

Clayton, with Jane, the professor and Esmeralda occupied Clayton’s car, while Tarzan took Mr. Philander in with him.
克莱顿、简、教授和埃斯梅拉达占用了克莱顿的车，而泰山则带着菲兰德先生一起进去。

‘Bless me!’ exclaimed Mr. Philander, as the car moved off after Clayton. ‘Who would ever have thought it possible! The last time I saw you you were a veritable wild man, skipping about among the branches of a tropical African forest, and now you are driving me along a Wisconsin road in a French automobile. Bless me! But it is most remarkable.’
“上帝保佑我！”汽车在克莱顿身后开走时，菲兰德先生惊呼道。 ‘谁会想到这是可能的！我上次见到你时，你是一个名副其实的野人，在非洲热带森林的树枝间蹦蹦跳跳，而现在你开着一辆法国汽车载着我沿着威斯康星州的道路行驶。保佑我（宗教！但这是最引人注目的。

‘Yes,’ assented Tarzan, and then, after a pause, ‘Mr. Philander, do you recall any of the details of the finding and burying of three skeletons found in my cabin beside that African jungle?’
“是的，”泰山表示同意，然后，停顿了一下，“先生。”菲兰德，你还记得在非洲丛林旁边我的小屋里发现和埋葬三具骷髅的细节吗？

‘Very distinctly, sir, very distinctly,’ replied Mr. Philander.
“非常明显，先生，非常明显，”菲兰德先生回答道。

‘Was there anything peculiar about any of those skeletons?’
“这些骷髅有什么特别之处吗？”

Mr. Philander eyed Tarzan narrowly.
菲兰德先生眯起眼睛看着泰山。

‘Why do you ask?’
'你为什么要问？'

‘It means a great deal to me to know,’ replied Tarzan. ‘Your answer may clear up a mystery. It can do no worse, at any rate, than to leave it still a mystery. I have been entertaining a theory concerning those skeletons for the past two months, and I want you to answer my question to the best of your knowledge—were the three skeletons you buried all human skeletons?’
“这对我来说意义重大，”泰山回答道。 ‘你的回答可能会解开一个谜团。无论如何，这比让它仍然是一个谜更糟糕。在过去的两个月里，我一直在思考关于这些骨骼的理论，我希望你尽你所知回答我的问题——你埋葬的三具骨骼都是人类骨骼吗？

‘No,’ said Mr. Philander, ‘the smallest one, the one found in the crib, was the skeleton of an anthropoid ape.’
“不，”菲兰德先生说，“最小的那具是在婴儿床里发现的，是一具类人猿的骨骼。”

‘Thank you,’ said Tarzan.
“谢谢你，”泰山说。

In the car ahead, Jane was thinking fast and furiously. She had felt the purpose for which Tarzan had asked a few words with her, and she knew that she must be prepared to give him an answer in the very near future.
前面的车里，简正在快速而激烈地思考。她已经感觉到了泰山跟她问几句话的目的，她知道她必须准备好在不久的将来给他一个答案。

He was not the sort of person one could put off, and somehow that very thought made her wonder if she did not really fear him.
他不是那种可以被人推倒的人，不知何故，这个念头让她怀疑自己是否真的不害怕他。

And could she love where she feared?
她能爱她所害怕的地方吗？

She realized the spell that had been upon her in the depths of that far-off jungle, but there was no spell of enchantment now in prosaic Wisconsin.
她意识到在那片遥远的丛林深处对她施加的魔咒，但现在在平淡无奇的威斯康星州却没有任何魔咒。

Nor did the immaculate young Frenchman appeal to the primal woman in her, as had the stalwart forest god.
这位完美无瑕的年轻法国人也不像坚定的森林之神那样吸引她身上原始的女人。

Did she love him? She did not know—now.
她爱他吗？她不知道——现在。

She glanced at Clayton out of the corner of her eye. Was not here a man trained in the same school of environment in which she had been trained—a man with social position and culture such as she had been taught to consider as the prime essentials to congenial association?
她用眼角的余光瞥了克莱顿一眼。难道这里的男人不是在她接受训练的同一所学校的环境中接受训练的吗？一个具有社会地位和文化的男人，正如她所被教导的那样，这是和谐交往的首要要素？

Did not her best judgment point to this young English nobleman, whose love she knew to be of the sort a civilized woman should crave, as the logical mate for such as herself?
她的最佳判断难道不是指向这位年轻的英国贵族吗？她知道他的爱是一个文明女性应该渴望的那种爱，作为像她这样的人的合乎逻辑的伴侣？

Could she love Clayton? She could see no reason why she could not. Jane was not coldly calculating by nature, but training, environment and heredity had all combined to teach her to reason even in matters of the heart.
她会爱克莱顿吗？她看不出有什么理由不能。简并不是生性冷酷算计的人，但后天的训练、环境和遗传都让她在感情问题上也能讲道理。

That she had been carried off her feet by the strength of the young giant when his great arms were about her in the distant African forest, and again today, in the Wisconsin woods, seemed to her only attributable to a temporary mental reversion to type on her part—to the psychological appeal of the primeval man to the primeval woman in her nature.
在遥远的非洲森林里，当年轻巨人用粗壮的手臂搂住她时，她被这个年轻巨人的力量迷住了，今天又在威斯康星州的森林里，在她看来，这只是暂时的精神恢复到打字的结果。她的角色——原始男人对原始女人本性的心理吸引力。

If he should never touch her again, she reasoned, she would never feel attracted toward him. She had not loved him, then. It had been nothing more than a passing hallucination, super-induced by excitement and by personal contact.
她推断，如果他再也不会碰她，她就永远不会被他吸引。那时她还没有爱过他。这只不过是一种短暂的幻觉，是由兴奋和个人接触引起的。

Excitement would not always mark their future relations, should she marry him, and the power of personal contact eventually would be dulled by familiarity.
如果她嫁给他，他们未来的关系并不总是令人兴奋，而且个人接触的力量最终会因熟悉而变得迟钝。

Again she glanced at Clayton. He was very handsome and every inch a gentleman. She should be very proud of such a husband.
她再次看了克莱顿一眼。他非常英俊，浑身都是绅士。她应该为有这样的丈夫感到非常自豪。

And then he spoke—a minute sooner or a minute later might have made all the difference in the world to three lives —but chance stepped in and pointed out to Clayton the psychological moment.
然后他说话了——早一分钟或晚一分钟可能会对三个人的生命产生巨大的影响——但机会出现了，向克莱顿指出了心理时刻。

‘You are free now, Jane,’ he said. ‘Won’t you say yes—I will devote my life to making you very happy.’
“你现在自由了，简，”他说。 “你不答应吗——我会用我的一生让你幸福。”

‘Yes,’ she whispered.
“是的，”她低声说道。

That evening in the little waiting room at the station Tarzan caught Jane alone for a moment.
那天晚上，在泰山车站的小候车室里，简独自一人呆了一会儿。

‘You are free now, Jane,’ he said, ‘and I have come across the ages out of the dim and distant past from the lair of the primeval man to claim you—for your sake I have become a civilized man—for your sake I have crossed oceans and continents—for your sake I will be whatever you will me to be. I can make you happy, Jane, in the life you know and love best. Will you marry me?’
“你现在自由了，简，”他说，“我从原始人的巢穴中走出了昏暗而遥远的过去，来到了你身边——为了你，我成为了一个文明人——为了你为了你，我跨越了海洋和大陆——为了你，我将成为你希望我成为的任何人。简，我能让你过上你最熟悉和最爱的生活，让你快乐。你愿意嫁给我吗？'

For the first time she realized the depths of the man’s love —all that he had accomplished in so short a time solely for love of her. Turning her head she buried her face in her arms.
她第一次体会到这个男人的爱有多深——他在这么短的时间内完成的这一切，只是为了爱她。她转过头，把脸埋进怀里。

What had she done? Because she had been afraid she might succumb to the pleas of this giant, she had burned her bridges behind her—in her groundless apprehension that she might make a terrible mistake, she had made a worse one.
她做了什么？因为她担心自己可能会屈服于这个巨人的恳求，所以她自断了路——她毫无根据地担心自己可能会犯下一个可怕的错误，结果她犯了一个更严重的错误。

And then she told him all—told him the truth word by word, without attempting to shield herself or condone her error.
然后她告诉了他一切——一字一句地告诉他真相，没有试图保护自己或宽恕自己的错误。

‘What can we do?’ he asked. ‘You have admitted that you love me. You know that I love you; but I do not know the ethics of society by which you are governed. I shall leave the decision to you, for you know best what will be for your eventual welfare.’
“我们能做什么？”他问道。 ‘你已经承认你爱我了。你知道，我爱你;但我不知道你们所遵循的社会道德。我将把决定权留给你，因为你最清楚什么对你最终的福利有利。

‘I cannot tell him, Tarzan,’ she said. ‘He too, loves me, and he is a good man. I could never face you nor any other honest person if I repudiated my promise to Mr. Clayton. I shall have to keep it—and you must help me bear the burden, though we may not see each other again after tonight.’
“我不能告诉他，泰山，”她说。 “他也爱我，而且他是个好人。如果我违背了对克莱顿先生的承诺，我将永远无法面对你或任何其他诚实的人。我必须保留它——你必须帮助我承担这个重担，尽管今晚之后我们可能不会再见面了。

The others were entering the room now and Tarzan turned toward the little window.
其他人现在正在进入房间，泰山转向小窗户。

But he saw nothing outside—within he saw a patch of greensward surrounded by a matted mass of gorgeous tropical plants and flowers, and, above, the waving foliage of mighty trees, and, over all, the blue of an equatorial sky.
但他在外面什么也没看到——在里面，他看到了一小片绿地，周围环绕着一大堆华丽的热带植物和花朵，上面是参天大树摇曳的树叶，最上面是赤道天空的蓝色。

In the center of the greensward a young woman sat upon a little mound of earth, and beside her sat a young giant. They ate pleasant fruit and looked into each other’s eyes and smiled. They were very happy, and they were all alone.
在绿地中央，一个年轻的女人坐在一个小土堆上，她旁边坐着一个年轻的巨人。他们吃着美味的水果，互相看着对方的眼睛，微笑着。他们很高兴，而且他们都是孤独的。

His thoughts were broken in upon by the station agent who entered asking if there was a gentleman by the name of Tarzan in the party.
他的思绪被车站工作人员打断了，他进来询问队伍中是否有一位名叫泰山的绅士。

‘I am Monsieur Tarzan,’ said the ape-man.
“我是泰山先生，”猿人说道。

‘Here is a message for you, forwarded from Baltimore; it is a cablegram from Paris.’
“这是从巴尔的摩转发给您的消息；这是一封来自巴黎的电报。”

Tarzan took the envelope and tore it open. The message was from D’Arnot.
泰山接过信封，撕开它。这条消息是达诺特发来的。

It read:
上面写着：

Fingerprints prove you Greystoke. Congratulations.
指纹证明你是格雷斯托克的。恭喜。

D’ARNOT.
达诺。

As Tarzan finished reading, Clayton entered and came toward him with extended hand.
当泰山读完时，克莱顿走了进来，伸出手向他走来。

Here was the man who had Tarzan’s title, and Tarzan’s estates, and was going to marry the woman whom Tarzan loved—the woman who loved Tarzan. A single word from Tarzan would make a great difference in this man’s life.
这个男人拥有泰山的头衔和泰山的庄园，并且要娶泰山所爱的女人——爱泰山的女人。泰山的一句话就会对这个人的生活产生巨大的影响。

It would take away his title and his lands and his castles, and—it would take them away from Jane Porter also. ‘I say, old man,’ cried Clayton, ‘I haven’t had a chance to thank you for all you’ve done for us. It seems as though you had your hands full saving our lives in Africa and here.
这将夺走他的头衔、他的土地和他的城堡，而且——这也会从简·波特手中夺走它们。 “我说，老兄，”克莱顿喊道，“我还没有机会感谢你为我们所做的一切。看来你们在非洲和这里竭尽全力拯救我们的生命。

‘I’m awfully glad you came on here. We must get better acquainted. I often thought about you, you know, and the remarkable circumstances of your environment.
‘我非常高兴你来到这里。我们必须更加熟悉。你知道，我经常想起你，以及你周围的非凡环境。

‘If it’s any of my business, how the devil did you ever get into that bally jungle?’
“如果这关乎我的事，你到底是怎么进入那个疯狂的丛林的？”

‘I was born there,’ said Tarzan, quietly. ‘My mother was an Ape, and of course she couldn’t tell me much about it. I never knew who my father was.’
“我出生在那里，”泰山平静地说。 “我的母亲是一只猿，当然她不能告诉我太多关于它的事情。我从来不知道我的父亲是谁。

FOR THE FURTHER ADVENTURES OF LORD GREYSTOKE READ THE RETURN OF TARZAN
要了解格雷斯托克勋爵的更多冒险，请阅读《泰山归来》