
Persuasion
劝说

By Jane Austen (1818)
作者：简·奥斯汀 (1818)

Chapter 1
第1章

Sir Walter Elliot, of Kellynch Hall, in Somersetshire, was a man who, for his own amusement, never took up any book but the Baronetage; there he found occupation for an idle hour, and consolation in a distressed one; there his faculties were roused into admiration and respect, by contemplating the limited remnant of the earliest patents; there any unwelcome sensations, arising from domestic affairs changed naturally into pity and contempt as he turned over the almost endless creations of the last century; and there, if every other leaf were powerless, he could read his own history with an interest which never failed. This was the page at which the favourite volume always opened:
沃尔特·埃利奥特爵士来自萨默塞特郡的凯林奇庄园，他为了自己的消遣，除了《从男爵》之外从不读任何书。在那里，他找到了闲暇时间的工作，并为痛苦的人提供了安慰。在那里，通过思考最早的专利的有限残余，他的才能被激发出钦佩和尊重。当他翻阅上个世纪几乎无穷无尽的创作时，任何因家庭事务而产生的不受欢迎的感觉自然会变成怜悯和蔑视。在那里，即使其他每一片叶子都无能为力，他也可以饶有兴趣地阅读自己的历史。这是最喜欢的卷总是打开的页面：

“ELLIOT OF KELLYNCH HALL.
“凯林奇大厅的埃利奥特。


‘Walter Elliot, born March 1, 1760, married, July 15, 1784, Elizabeth, daughter of James Stevenson, Esq. of South Park, in the county of Gloucester, by which lady (who died 1800) he has issue Elizabeth, born June 1, 1785; Anne, born August 9, 1787; a still-born son, November 5, 1789; Mary, born November 20, 1791.’
沃尔特·埃利奥特，生于 1760 年 3 月 1 日，结婚于 1784 年 7 月 15 日，伊丽莎白，詹姆斯·史蒂文森先生的女儿。格洛斯特县南方公园的一位女士（1800 年去世）与他生下了伊丽莎白，生于 1785 年 6 月 1 日；安妮，生于 1787 年 8 月 9 日； 1789 年 11 月 5 日，一个死产的儿子；玛丽，出生于 1791 年 11 月 20 日。”

Precisely such had the paragraph originally stood from the printer’s hands; but Sir Walter had improved it by adding, for the information of himself and his family, these words, after the date of Mary’s birth— ‘Married, December 16, 1810, Charles, son and heir of Charles Musgrove, Esq. of Uppercross, in the county of Somerset,’ and by inserting most accurately the day of the month on which he had lost his wife.
该段落最初出自印刷者之手，正是如此。但沃尔特爵士对其进行了改进，为了让他自己和家人知道，在玛丽出生日期后添加了这些话：“已婚，1810年12月16日，查尔斯，查尔斯·穆斯格罗夫先生的儿子和继承人。”萨默塞特郡厄珀克罗斯”，并最准确地插入他失去妻子的月份的日期。

Then followed the history and rise of the ancient and respectable family, in the usual terms; how it had been first settled in Cheshire; how mentioned in Dugdale, serving the office of high sheriff, representing a borough in three successive parliaments, exertions of loyalty, and dignity of baronet, in the first year of Charles II, with all the Marys and Elizabeths they had married; forming altogether two handsome duodecimo pages, and concluding with the arms and motto:—‘Principal seat, Kellynch Hall, in the county of Somerset,’ and Sir Walter’s handwriting again in this finale:—
接下来是这个古老而受人尊敬的家族的历史和崛起，用通常的话来说。它最初是如何在柴郡定居的；查理二世元年，在达格代尔担任高级治安官，在连续三届议会中代表一个行政区，表现出忠诚和从男爵的尊严，以及与他们结婚的所有玛丽和伊丽莎白；总共形成了两页漂亮的十二页，并以徽章和座右铭结束：“校长席位，凯林奇大厅，萨默塞特郡，”以及沃尔特爵士在这个结局中的笔迹：

‘Heir presumptive, William Walter Elliot, Esq., great grandson of the second Sir Walter.’
“推定继承人威廉·沃尔特·埃利奥特先生，第二任沃尔特爵士的曾孙。”

Vanity was the beginning and the end of Sir Walter Elliot’s character; vanity of person and of situation. He had been remarkably handsome in his youth; and, at fifty-four, was still a very fine man. Few women could think more of their personal appearance than he did, nor could the valet of any new made lord be more delighted with the place he held in society. He considered the blessing of beauty as inferior only to the blessing of a baronetcy; and the Sir Walter Elliot, who united these gifts, was the constant object of his warmest respect and devotion.
虚荣是沃尔特·埃利奥特爵士性格的开始和结束。个人和处境的虚荣心。他年轻时非常英俊。五十四岁了，仍然是一个非常优秀的人。很少有女人比他更注重自己的个人外表，任何新任领主的贴身男仆也不会比他在社会中所占据的地位更满意。他认为美丽的祝福仅次于男爵的祝福。沃尔特·埃利奥特爵士将这些天赋结合在一起，一直是他最热烈的尊重和奉献的对象。

His good looks and his rank had one fair claim on his attachment; since to them he must have owed a wife of very superior character to any thing deserved by his own. Lady Elliot had been an excellent woman, sensible and amiable; whose judgement and conduct, if they might be pardoned the youthful infatuation which made her Lady Elliot, had never required indulgence afterwards.—She had humoured, or softened, or concealed his failings, and promoted his real respectability for seventeen years; and though not the very happiest being in the world herself, had found enough in her duties, her friends, and her children, to attach her to life, and make it no matter of indifference to her when she was called on to quit them. —Three girls, the two eldest sixteen and fourteen, was an awful legacy for a mother to bequeath, an awful charge rather, to confide to the authority and guidance of a conceited, silly father. She had, however, one very intimate friend, a sensible, deserving woman, who had been brought, by strong attachment to herself, to settle close by her, in the village of Kellynch; and on her kindness and advice, Lady Elliot mainly relied for the best help and maintenance of the good principles and instruction which she had been anxiously giving her daughters.
他英俊的外表和他的地位足以证明他对他的依恋。因为他一定欠他们一个品格非常优越的妻子，这是他自己应得的。艾略特夫人是一位优秀的女性，明智又和蔼可亲。她的判断力和行为，如果可以原谅年轻时的迷恋，使她成为埃利奥特夫人，那么以后就不再需要纵容了。——十七年来，她一直在迁就、软化或隐瞒他的缺点，并提升他真正的受人尊敬；而她的表现，则使他成为了埃利奥特夫人。虽然她自己并不是世界上最幸福的人，但她已经在她的职责、她的朋友和她的孩子们中找到了足够多的东西，让她对生活充满依恋，当她被要求放弃这些事情时，她也不会感到冷漠。 ——三个女孩，两个最大的十六岁和十四岁，对于一个母亲来说是一笔可怕的遗产，更确切地说，是一个可怕的负担，要信任一个自负而愚蠢的父亲的权威和指导。然而，她有一个非常亲密的朋友，一位明智的、值得的女人，由于对自己的强烈依恋，她在凯林奇村附近定居下来。埃利奥特夫人主要依靠她的善意和建议来提供最好的帮助和维持她一直焦急地传授给女儿们的良好原则和指导。

This friend, and Sir Walter, did not marry, whatever might have been anticipated on that head by their acquaintance. Thirteen years had passed away since Lady Elliot’s death, and they were still near neighbours and intimate friends, and one remained a widower, the other a widow.
这位朋友和沃尔特爵士没有结婚，无论他们的相识对此有何期待。埃利奥特夫人去世已经十三年了，他们仍然是近邻和亲密的朋友，一个仍然是鳏夫，另一个是寡妇。

That Lady Russell, of steady age and character, and extremely well provided for, should have no thought of a second marriage, needs no apology to the public, which is rather apt to be unreasonably discontented when a woman does marry again, than when she does not; but Sir Walter’s continuing in singleness requires explanation. Be it known then, that Sir Walter, like a good father, (having met with one or two private disappointments in very unreasonable applications), prided himself on remaining single for his dear daughters’ sake. For one daughter, his eldest, he would really have given up any thing, which he had not been very much tempted to do. Elizabeth had succeeded, at sixteen, to all that was possible, of her mother’s rights and consequence; and being very handsome, and very like himself, her influence had always been great, and they had gone on together most happily. His two other children were of very inferior value. Mary had acquired a little artificial importance, by becoming Mrs Charles Musgrove; but Anne, with an elegance of mind and sweetness of character, which must have placed her high with any people of real understanding, was nobody with either father or sister; her word had no weight, her convenience was always to give way— she was only Anne.
拉塞尔夫人年龄和品格稳定，生活条件也很好，应该不会想到第二次婚姻，不需要向公众道歉，当一个女人再次结婚时，公众更容易感到无理的不满，而不是当她再婚时。才不是;但沃尔特爵士继续单身需要解释。众所周知，沃尔特爵士就像一位好父亲（在非常不合理的申请中遇到过一两次私人失望），他为自己为了亲爱的女儿们而保持单身而感到自豪。为了一个女儿，他的大女儿，他真的愿意放弃任何事情，但他并没有很想这么做。伊丽莎白十六岁时就继承了她母亲的一切可能的权利和后果。她长得很漂亮，也很像他，所以影响力一直很大，他们在一起过得很幸福。他的另外两个孩子的价值非常低。玛丽通过成为查尔斯·穆斯格罗夫夫人而获得了一点人为的重要性。但是安妮，思想优雅，性格可爱，这一定会让她在任何真正有理解力的人中享有很高的评价，她没有父亲或妹妹。她的话没有分量，她总是为了方便而让步——她只是安妮。

To Lady Russell, indeed, she was a most dear and highly valued god-daughter, favourite, and friend. Lady Russell loved them all; but it was only in Anne that she could fancy the mother to revive again.
事实上，对于拉塞尔夫人来说，她是最亲爱、最受重视的教女、最爱和朋友。拉塞尔夫人爱他们所有人；但只有在安妮身上，她才能想象母亲再次复活。

A few years before, Anne Elliot had been a very pretty girl, but her bloom had vanished early; and as even in its height, her father had found little to admire in her, (so totally different were her delicate features and mild dark eyes from his own), there could be nothing in them, now that she was faded and thin, to excite his esteem. He had never indulged much hope, he had now none, of ever reading her name in any other page of his favourite work. All equality of alliance must rest with Elizabeth, for Mary had merely connected herself with an old country family of respectability and large fortune, and had therefore given all the honour and received none: Elizabeth would, one day or other, marry suitably.
几年前，安妮·埃利奥特还是个非常漂亮的女孩，但她的花容月貌早已凋零。即使在她的高度，她的父亲也没有发现她有什么值得钦佩的地方（她精致的容貌和温和的黑眼睛与他的完全不同），现在她已经褪色了，瘦了，他们身上没有什么可以欣赏的。激起他的敬意。他从来没有抱太大的希望，现在他已经没有希望在他最喜欢的作品的任何其他页面上读到她的名字。所有平等的联盟都必须取决于伊丽莎白，因为玛丽仅仅与一个受人尊敬且拥有巨额财富的古老乡村家庭有联系，因此她给予了所有的荣誉而没有得到任何荣誉：伊丽莎白总有一天会嫁给合适的人。

It sometimes happens that a woman is handsomer at twenty-nine than she was ten years before; and, generally speaking, if there has been neither ill health nor anxiety, it is a time of life at which scarcely any charm is lost. It was so with Elizabeth, still the same handsome Miss Elliot that she had begun to be thirteen years ago, and Sir Walter might be excused, therefore, in forgetting her age, or, at least, be deemed only half a fool, for thinking himself and Elizabeth as blooming as ever, amidst the wreck of the good looks of everybody else; for he could plainly see how old all the rest of his family and acquaintance were growing. Anne haggard, Mary coarse, every face in the neighbourhood worsting, and the rapid increase of the crow’s foot about Lady Russell’s temples had long been a distress to him.
有时，一个女人二十九岁的时候比十年前还要漂亮。一般来说，如果既没有健康不佳，也没有焦虑，那么在这个时期，人生的魅力几乎不会丧失。伊丽莎白就是如此，仍然是十三年前那个英俊的埃利奥特小姐，因此沃尔特爵士可能会原谅她忘记了她的年龄，或者至少被认为只是半个傻瓜，因为她认为他自己和伊丽莎白一如既往地绽放光芒，尽管其他人的美貌都已黯然失色。因为他可以清楚地看到他的家人和熟人的其他人都已经长大了。安妮憔悴，玛丽粗鲁，邻居们的每张脸都变得毛茸茸的，拉塞尔夫人太阳穴周围的鱼尾纹迅速增加，长期以来一直困扰着他。

Elizabeth did not quite equal her father in personal contentment. Thirteen years had seen her mistress of Kellynch Hall, presiding and directing with a self-possession and decision which could never have given the idea of her being younger than she was. For thirteen years had she been doing the honours, and laying down the domestic law at home, and leading the way to the chaise and four, and walking immediately after Lady Russell out of all the drawing-rooms and dining-rooms in the country. Thirteen winters’ revolving frosts had seen her opening every ball of credit which a scanty neighbourhood afforded, and thirteen springs shewn their blossoms, as she travelled up to London with her father, for a few weeks’ annual enjoyment of the great world. She had the remembrance of all this, she had the consciousness of being nine-and-twenty to give her some regrets and some apprehensions; she was fully satisfied of being still quite as handsome as ever, but she felt her approach to the years of danger, and would have rejoiced to be certain of being properly solicited by baronet-blood within the next twelvemonth or two. Then might she again take up the book of books with as much enjoyment as in her early youth, but now she liked it not. Always to be presented with the date of her own birth and see no marriage follow but that of a youngest sister, made the book an evil; and more than once, when her father had left it open on the table near her, had she closed it, with averted eyes, and pushed it away.
伊丽莎白在个人满足感方面并不完全与她的父亲相媲美。她在凯林奇庄园的女主人已经十三年了，她以沉着和果断的态度主持和指挥，这绝对不会让人认为她比实际年龄更年轻。十三年来，她一直在家里做着荣誉，制定了国内法律，带路走向马车和四人，并紧随拉塞尔夫人走出该国所有的客厅和餐厅。十三个冬天的霜冻让她打开了贫瘠社区所能提供的每一笔信用，十三个春天绽放了花朵，她和父亲一起前往伦敦，每年几个星期享受这个伟大的世界。她有这一切的记忆，有九岁二十岁的意识让她有些遗憾，有些忐忑；她对自己仍然像以前一样英俊感到非常满意，但她感到自己即将面临危险的岁月，并且会很高兴在接下来的十二个月或两个月内肯定会受到准男爵血统的适当恳求。那时她可能会像年轻时一样愉快地重新拿起这本书，但现在她不喜欢它了。总是被告知她自己的出生日期，却看不到除了最小的妹妹之外没有婚姻，这使得这本书变得邪恶。不止一次，当她父亲把它放在她旁边的桌子上时，她把它关上，目光移开，然后把它推开。

She had had a disappointment, moreover, which that book, and especially the history of her own family, must ever present the remembrance of. The heir presumptive, the very William Walter Elliot, Esq., whose rights had been so generously supported by her father, had disappointed her.
此外，她曾有过一次失望，那本书，尤其是她自己家族的历史，必须永远铭记这一点。假定继承人威廉·沃尔特·埃利奥特先生的权利得到了她父亲的慷慨支持，但他却令她失望了。

She had, while a very young girl, as soon as she had known him to be, in the event of her having no brother, the future baronet, meant to marry him, and her father had always meant that she should. He had not been known to them as a boy; but soon after Lady Elliot’s death, Sir Walter had sought the acquaintance, and though his overtures had not been met with any warmth, he had persevered in seeking it, making allowance for the modest drawing-back of youth; and, in one of their spring excursions to London, when Elizabeth was in her first bloom, Mr Elliot had been forced into the introduction.
当她还是一个非常年轻的女孩时，当她认识他时，如果她没有兄弟，未来的男爵，她就打算嫁给他，而她父亲一直想让她这样做。他们小时候并不认识他。但埃利奥特夫人去世后不久，沃尔特爵士就开始寻求结识，虽然他的提议没有得到任何热情的回应，但考虑到年轻人谦虚的退缩，他坚持不懈地寻求结识。有一次他们春天去伦敦旅行，伊丽莎白正值花开之时，埃利奥特先生被迫引见。

He was at that time a very young man, just engaged in the study of the law; and Elizabeth found him extremely agreeable, and every plan in his favour was confirmed. He was invited to Kellynch Hall; he was talked of and expected all the rest of the year; but he never came. The following spring he was seen again in town, found equally agreeable, again encouraged, invited, and expected, and again he did not come; and the next tidings were that he was married. Instead of pushing his fortune in the line marked out for the heir of the house of Elliot, he had purchased independence by uniting himself to a rich woman of inferior birth.
那时他还很年轻，刚刚学习法律。伊丽莎白觉得他非常讨人喜欢，每一个对他有利的计划都得到了确认。他被邀请到凯林奇大厅；这一年剩下的时间里，人们都在谈论他，期待着他。但他从来没有来过。第二年春天，他再次出现在城里，同样令人愉快，再次受到鼓励、邀请和期待，但他又没有来。接下来的消息是他结婚了。他没有将自己的财富推向埃利奥特家族的继承人，而是通过与一位出身低贱的富有的女人结合来获得独立。

Sir Walter has resented it. As the head of the house, he felt that he ought to have been consulted, especially after taking the young man so publicly by the hand; ‘For they must have been seen together,’ he observed, ‘once at Tattersall’s, and twice in the lobby of the House of Commons.’ His disapprobation was expressed, but apparently very little regarded. Mr Elliot had attempted no apology, and shewn himself as unsolicitous of being longer noticed by the family, as Sir Walter considered him unworthy of it: all acquaintance between them had ceased.
沃尔特爵士对此表示不满。作为一家之主，他觉得应该征求他的意见，尤其是在如此公开地握住年轻人的手之后； “因为他们肯定被人看到在一起，”他评论道，“一次在塔特萨尔，两次在下议院大厅。”他表达了不满，但显然很少受到重视。埃利奥特先生没有试图道歉，而且表现得不情愿地不再受到家人的注意，因为沃尔特爵士认为他不值得这样做：他们之间的所有熟人都已经结束了。

This very awkward history of Mr Elliot was still, after an interval of several years, felt with anger by Elizabeth, who had liked the man for himself, and still more for being her father’s heir, and whose strong family pride could see only in him a proper match for Sir Walter Elliot’s eldest daughter. There was not a baronet from A to Z whom her feelings could have so willingly acknowledged as an equal. Yet so miserably had he conducted himself, that though she was at this present time (the summer of 1814) wearing black ribbons for his wife, she could not admit him to be worth thinking of again. The disgrace of his first marriage might, perhaps, as there was no reason to suppose it perpetuated by offspring, have been got over, had he not done worse; but he had, as by the accustomary intervention of kind friends, they had been informed, spoken most disrespectfully of them all, most slightingly and contemptuously of the very blood he belonged to, and the honours which were hereafter to be his own. This could not be pardoned.
几年后，伊丽莎白仍然对埃利奥特先生这段非常尴尬的经历感到愤怒，她喜欢这个男人本身，更因为他是她父亲的继承人，而她强烈的家族自豪感只能在他身上看到。很适合沃尔特·埃利奥特爵士的大女儿。从头到尾，没有哪个准男爵能像她一样心甘情愿地承认自己是平等的。然而，他的行为如此悲惨，以至于尽管她现在（1814年夏天）为他的妻子系着黑丝带，但她不承认他值得再次想起。如果他没有做得更糟的话，他第一次婚姻的耻辱也许已经被克服了，因为没有理由认为它会由后代延续下去。但是，正如友好朋友们惯常的干预一样，他已经告知他们，对他们所有人都进行了最无礼、最轻蔑和轻蔑的交谈，谈论了他所属的血统，以及此后将属于他自己的荣誉。这是不能原谅的。

Such were Elizabeth Elliot’s sentiments and sensations; such the cares to alloy, the agitations to vary, the sameness and the elegance, the prosperity and the nothingness of her scene of life; such the feelings to give interest to a long, uneventful residence in one country circle, to fill the vacancies which there were no habits of utility abroad, no talents or accomplishments for home, to occupy.
这就是伊丽莎白·埃利奥特的情感和感觉。她的生活场景是这样的，对融合的关心，对变化的渴望，千篇一律和优雅，繁荣和虚无；这种感觉使人们对在一个国家圈内长期、平静地居住产生兴趣，以填补在国外没有实用习惯、在国内没有才能或成就的空缺。

But now, another occupation and solicitude of mind was beginning to be added to these. Her father was growing distressed for money. She knew, that when he now took up the Baronetage, it was to drive the heavy bills of his tradespeople, and the unwelcome hints of Mr Shepherd, his agent, from his thoughts. The Kellynch property was good, but not equal to Sir Walter’s apprehension of the state required in its possessor. While Lady Elliot lived, there had been method, moderation, and economy, which had just kept him within his income; but with her had died all such right-mindedness, and from that period he had been constantly exceeding it. It had not been possible for him to spend less; he had done nothing but what Sir Walter Elliot was imperiously called on to do; but blameless as he was, he was not only growing dreadfully in debt, but was hearing of it so often, that it became vain to attempt concealing it longer, even partially, from his daughter. He had given her some hints of it the last spring in town; he had gone so far even as to say, ‘Can we retrench? Does it occur to you that there is any one article in which we can retrench?’ and Elizabeth, to do her justice, had, in the first ardour of female alarm, set seriously to think what could be done, and had finally proposed these two branches of economy, to cut off some unnecessary charities, and to refrain from new furnishing the drawing-room; to which expedients she afterwards added the happy thought of their taking no present down to Anne, as had been the usual yearly custom. But these measures, however good in themselves, were insufficient for the real extent of the evil, the whole of which Sir Walter found himself obliged to confess to her soon afterwards. Elizabeth had nothing to propose of deeper efficacy. She felt herself ill-used and unfortunate, as did her father; and they were neither of them able to devise any means of lessening their expenses without compromising their dignity, or relinquishing their comforts in a way not to be borne.
但现在，除此之外，又开始增添了另一种职业和心灵的关怀。她的父亲越来越缺钱。她知道，当他现在获得男爵爵位时，是为了将商人的沉重账单和他的经纪人谢泼德先生不受欢迎的暗示从他的脑海中赶走。凯林奇的财产固然不错，但仍不足以满足沃尔特爵士对其所有者所要求的国家的忧虑。埃利奥特夫人活着的时候，有方法、有节制、有节俭，这使他的收入不超过他的收入范围。但随着她的出现，所有这些正直的思想都消失了，从那时起，他就不断地超越它。他不可能少花点钱。除了沃尔特·埃利奥特爵士被专横地要求做的事情之外，他什么也没做。尽管他无可指责，但他不仅负债累累，而且还经常听到这件事，以至于试图向女儿隐瞒更长的时间，甚至部分隐瞒，都是徒劳的。去年春天，他在镇上曾向她暗示过这一点。他甚至说：‘我们可以紧缩开支吗？你是否想到过，有哪一篇文章是我们可以缩减开支的？”而伊丽莎白，为了公平起见，在女性惊恐的第一股热情中，认真地思考了可以做些什么，并最终提出了这些建议。经济的两个部门，切断一些不必要的慈善事业，并避免为客厅添置新家具；随后，她又想到了他们不会像每年的惯例那样给安妮带礼物，这也是一种权宜之计。但这些措施，无论本身多么好，都不足以说明罪恶的真实程度，沃尔特爵士发现自己不久后不得不向她承认整个罪恶。伊丽莎白没有提出任何更深层次的功效。 她和她的父亲一样，感到自己受到了虐待和不幸。他们俩都无法想出任何方法来减少开支，同时又不损害他们的尊严，或者以一种无法忍受的方式放弃他们的舒适。

There was only a small part of his estate that Sir Walter could dispose of; but had every acre been alienable, it would have made no difference. He had condescended to mortgage as far as he had the power, but he would never condescend to sell. No; he would never disgrace his name so far. The Kellynch estate should be transmitted whole and entire, as he had received it.
沃尔特爵士只能处置他的一小部分财产；但如果每一英亩土地都可以转让，那就没什么区别了。他曾在力所能及的范围内屈尊抵押，但他绝不会屈尊出售。不;到目前为止，他绝不会玷污自己的名声。凯林奇的遗产应该按照他收到的方式全部转让。

Their two confidential friends, Mr Shepherd, who lived in the neighbouring market town, and Lady Russell, were called to advise them; and both father and daughter seemed to expect that something should be struck out by one or the other to remove their embarrassments and reduce their expenditure, without involving the loss of any indulgence of taste or pride.
他们的两个密友，住在邻近集镇的谢泼德先生和拉塞尔夫人，被叫来为他们提供建议。父女俩似乎都希望对方能够解决一些问题，以消除他们的尴尬并减少开支，同时又不会失去任何品味或自豪感。

Chapter 2
第2章

Mr Shepherd, a civil, cautious lawyer, who, whatever might be his hold or his views on Sir Walter, would rather have the disagreeable prompted by anybody else, excused himself from offering the slightest hint, and only begged leave to recommend an implicit reference to the excellent judgement of Lady Russell, from whose known good sense he fully expected to have just such resolute measures advised as he meant to see finally adopted.
谢泼德先生是一位彬彬有礼、谨慎的律师，无论他对沃尔特爵士的看法如何，他宁愿让其他人提出不愉快的事情，他为自己没有提供最轻微的暗示，只是请求允许推荐一个隐含的参考资料。感谢拉塞尔夫人的出色判断，从她众所周知的良好判断力来看，他完全期望得到如此果断的建议，因为他打算最终采取这种措施。

Lady Russell was most anxiously zealous on the subject, and gave it much serious consideration. She was a woman rather of sound than of quick abilities, whose difficulties in coming to any decision in this instance were great, from the opposition of two leading principles. She was of strict integrity herself, with a delicate sense of honour; but she was as desirous of saving Sir Walter’s feelings, as solicitous for the credit of the family, as aristocratic in her ideas of what was due to them, as anybody of sense and honesty could well be. She was a benevolent, charitable, good woman, and capable of strong attachments, most correct in her conduct, strict in her notions of decorum, and with manners that were held a standard of good-breeding. She had a cultivated mind, and was, generally speaking, rational and consistent; but she had prejudices on the side of ancestry; she had a value for rank and consequence, which blinded her a little to the faults of those who possessed them. Herself the widow of only a knight, she gave the dignity of a baronet all its due; and Sir Walter, independent of his claims as an old acquaintance, an attentive neighbour, an obliging landlord, the husband of her very dear friend, the father of Anne and her sisters, was, as being Sir Walter, in her apprehension, entitled to a great deal of compassion and consideration under his present difficulties.
拉塞尔夫人对这个问题非常热心，并给予了非常认真的考虑。她是一个头脑健全而不是反应敏捷的女人，在这种情况下，由于两个主要原则的对立，她做出任何决定都非常困难。她本人为人正直，有着微妙的荣誉感。但她和任何有理智、诚实的人一样，都渴望挽回沃尔特爵士的感情，关心家族的信誉，对家族应得的东西抱有贵族般的观念。她是一个仁慈、慈善、善良的女人，有很强的依恋能力，行为端正，礼仪观念严格，举止符合良好教养的标准。她心胸有教养，一般来说，是理性的、始终如一的。但她对血统有偏见；她看重地位和影响力，这让她对拥有这些地位的人的错误视而不见。她自己只是一位骑士的遗孀，她赋予了从男爵应有的尊严。沃尔特爵士，不管他声称自己是老熟人、细心的邻居、乐于助人的房东、她非常亲密的朋友的丈夫、安妮和她姐妹的父亲，据她所知，沃尔特爵士有权在他目前的困难下，给予了极大的同情和体贴。

They must retrench; that did not admit of a doubt. But she was very anxious to have it done with the least possible pain to him and Elizabeth. She drew up plans of economy, she made exact calculations, and she did what nobody else thought of doing: she consulted Anne, who never seemed considered by the others as having any interest in the question. She consulted, and in a degree was influenced by her in marking out the scheme of retrenchment which was at last submitted to Sir Walter. Every emendation of Anne’s had been on the side of honesty against importance. She wanted more vigorous measures, a more complete reformation, a quicker release from debt, a much higher tone of indifference for everything but justice and equity.
他们必须紧缩开支；这不容置疑。但她非常渴望在尽可能不给他和伊丽莎白带来痛苦的情况下完成这件事。她制定了经济计划，她进行了精确的计算，她做了别人想做的事：她咨询了安妮，而其他人似乎从未认为她对这个问题有任何兴趣。她进行了咨询，并在一定程度上受到她的影响，制定了最后提交给沃尔特爵士的裁员计划。安妮的每一次修改都是站在诚实的一边，反对重要性。她希望采取更有力的措施、更彻底的改革、更快地摆脱债务、对除正义和公平之外的一切都表现出更加冷漠的态度。

‘If we can persuade your father to all this,’ said Lady Russell, looking over her paper, ‘much may be done. If he will adopt these regulations, in seven years he will be clear; and I hope we may be able to convince him and Elizabeth, that Kellynch Hall has a respectability in itself which cannot be affected by these reductions; and that the true dignity of Sir Walter Elliot will be very far from lessened in the eyes of sensible people, by acting like a man of principle. What will he be doing, in fact, but what very many of our first families have done, or ought to do? There will be nothing singular in his case; and it is singularity which often makes the worst part of our suffering, as it always does of our conduct. I have great hope of prevailing. We must be serious and decided; for after all, the person who has contracted debts must pay them; and though a great deal is due to the feelings of the gentleman, and the head of a house, like your father, there is still more due to the character of an honest man.’
“如果我们能说服你父亲接受这一切，”拉塞尔夫人看着她的报纸说，“事情就大有可为了。”如果他采纳这些规定，七年后他就会清楚；我希望我们能够让他和伊丽莎白相信，凯林奇庄园本身就具有受人尊敬的地位，不会受到这些削减的影响；沃尔特·埃利奥特爵士的真正尊严在明智的人眼中绝不会因为他表现得像一个有原则的人而降低。事实上，他会做什么，但我们许多第一家庭已经做了或应该做什么？他的情况并不奇怪。正是这种独特性常常使我们遭受最严重的痛苦，就像我们的行为总是如此一样。我对获胜抱有很大的希望。我们必须认真、坚决；毕竟，负有债务的人必须偿还债务；虽然很大程度上取决于君子、一家之主的感情，比如你的父亲，但更多的是取决于诚实人的品格。

This was the principle on which Anne wanted her father to be proceeding, his friends to be urging him. She considered it as an act of indispensable duty to clear away the claims of creditors with all the expedition which the most comprehensive retrenchments could secure, and saw no dignity in anything short of it. She wanted it to be prescribed, and felt as a duty. She rated Lady Russell’s influence highly; and as to the severe degree of self-denial which her own conscience prompted, she believed there might be little more difficulty in persuading them to a complete, than to half a reformation. Her knowledge of her father and Elizabeth inclined her to think that the sacrifice of one pair of horses would be hardly less painful than of both, and so on, through the whole list of Lady Russell’s too gentle reductions.
这就是安妮希望她的父亲继续遵循的原则，他的朋友们也敦促他这样做。她认为，尽一切努力清除债权人的债权是一项不可或缺的义务，而这也是最全面的紧缩措施所能保证的，并且认为除此之外没有任何尊严。她希望得到处方，并觉得这是一种责任。她高度评价拉塞尔夫人的影响力；至于她自己的良心所促使的严重程度的自我否定，她相信说服他们进行彻底的改革可能比说服他们进行一半的改革要困难得多。她对父亲和伊丽莎白的了解使她认为，牺牲一匹马所带来的痛苦并不比牺牲两匹马少，依此类推，通过拉塞尔夫人过于温和的减少的整个清单。

How Anne’s more rigid requisitions might have been taken is of little consequence. Lady Russell’s had no success at all: could not be put up with, were not to be borne. ‘What! every comfort of life knocked off! Journeys, London, servants, horses, table— contractions and restrictions every where! To live no longer with the decencies even of a private gentleman! No, he would sooner quit Kellynch Hall at once, than remain in it on such disgraceful terms.’
安妮提出的更严格的要求如何被接受并不重要。拉塞尔夫人的根本没有成功：无法忍受，无法忍受。 '什么！一切舒适的生活都被破坏了！旅程、伦敦、仆人、马匹、桌子——到处都有收缩和限制！不再以私人绅士的礼仪生活！不，他宁愿立即离开凯林奇大厅，也不愿以如此可耻的条件留在里面。

‘Quit Kellynch Hall.’ The hint was immediately taken up by Mr Shepherd, whose interest was involved in the reality of Sir Walter’s retrenching, and who was perfectly persuaded that nothing would be done without a change of abode. ‘Since the idea had been started in the very quarter which ought to dictate, he had no scruple,’ he said, ‘in confessing his judgement to be entirely on that side. It did not appear to him that Sir Walter could materially alter his style of living in a house which had such a character of hospitality and ancient dignity to support. In any other place Sir Walter might judge for himself; and would be looked up to, as regulating the modes of life in whatever way he might choose to model his household.’
“离开凯林奇庄园。”谢泼德先生立即接受了这个暗示，他的兴趣与沃尔特爵士紧缩的现实有关，并且完全相信，如果不改变住所，什么也做不了。 “由于这个想法是在应该发号施令的那个季度开始的，所以他毫无顾忌，”他说，“承认他的判断完全站在这一边。”在他看来，沃尔特爵士无法从实质上改变他在这座拥有如此热情好客和古老尊严的房子里的生活方式。在任何其他地方，沃尔特爵士都可以自己做出判断。他会受到尊敬，因为他会以任何方式来规范他的家庭生活方式。”

Sir Walter would quit Kellynch Hall; and after a very few days more of doubt and indecision, the great question of whither he should go was settled, and the first outline of this important change made out.
沃尔特爵士将离开凯林奇庄园；经过几天的怀疑和犹豫不决，他应该去哪里的重大问题得到了解决，这一重要变化的第一个轮廓也随之浮现。

There had been three alternatives, London, Bath, or another house in the country. All Anne’s wishes had been for the latter. A small house in their own neighbourhood, where they might still have Lady Russell’s society, still be near Mary, and still have the pleasure of sometimes seeing the lawns and groves of Kellynch, was the object of her ambition. But the usual fate of Anne attended her, in having something very opposite from her inclination fixed on. She disliked Bath, and did not think it agreed with her; and Bath was to be her home.
有三个选择：伦敦、巴斯，或者乡下的另一所房子。安妮所有的愿望都是后者。她野心勃勃的目标是在他们自己的社区里建一栋小房子，在那里他们仍然可以与拉塞尔夫人交往，仍然靠近玛丽，并且有时仍然有幸看到凯林奇的草坪和树林。但安妮的命运却一如既往地降临在她身上，她的命运与她的意愿截然相反。她不喜欢巴斯，并且认为这不适合她。巴斯将成为她的家。

Sir Walter had at first thought more of London; but Mr Shepherd felt that he could not be trusted in London, and had been skilful enough to dissuade him from it, and make Bath preferred. It was a much safer place for a gentleman in his predicament: he might there be important at comparatively little expense. Two material advantages of Bath over London had of course been given all their weight: its more convenient distance from Kellynch, only fifty miles, and Lady Russell’s spending some part of every winter there; and to the very great satisfaction of Lady Russell, whose first views on the projected change had been for Bath, Sir Walter and Elizabeth were induced to believe that they should lose neither consequence nor enjoyment by settling there.
沃尔特爵士一开始更多地想到了伦敦。但谢泼德先生觉得他在伦敦不值得信任，并巧妙地劝阻了他，并优先考虑巴斯。对于一位陷入困境的绅士来说，这是一个更安全的地方：他可能会以相对较少的花费而变得重要。巴斯相对于伦敦的两个物质优势当然得到了充分的重视：它距凯林奇更方便，只有五十英里，而且拉塞尔夫人每年冬天都会在那里度过一段时间；令拉塞尔夫人非常满意的是，她对计划中的变化的第一个看法是巴斯，沃尔特爵士和伊丽莎白被诱导相信，他们不会因在那里定居而失去影响力或乐趣。

Lady Russell felt obliged to oppose her dear Anne’s known wishes. It would be too much to expect Sir Walter to descend into a small house in his own neighbourhood. Anne herself would have found the mortifications of it more than she foresaw, and to Sir Walter’s feelings they must have been dreadful. And with regard to Anne’s dislike of Bath, she considered it as a prejudice and mistake arising, first, from the circumstance of her having been three years at school there, after her mother’s death; and secondly, from her happening to be not in perfectly good spirits the only winter which she had afterwards spent there with herself.
拉塞尔夫人觉得有必要反对她亲爱的安妮已知的愿望。期望沃尔特爵士能走进他自己社区的一所小房子，那就太令人难以接受了。安妮本人会发现这比她预想的更多的屈辱，而且对沃尔特爵士来说，这一定是可怕的。至于安妮不喜欢巴斯，她认为这是一种偏见和错误，首先是因为她母亲去世后，她在巴斯上学了三年；其次是因为她在巴斯的学校里待了三年。其次，她在那儿度过的唯一一个冬天碰巧精神不太好。

Lady Russell was fond of Bath, in short, and disposed to think it must suit them all; and as to her young friend’s health, by passing all the warm months with her at Kellynch Lodge, every danger would be avoided; and it was in fact, a change which must do both health and spirits good. Anne had been too little from home, too little seen. Her spirits were not high. A larger society would improve them. She wanted her to be more known.
简而言之，拉塞尔夫人很喜欢巴斯，并且认为它一定适合他们所有人。至于她年轻朋友的健康，只要和她一起在凯林奇小屋度过温暖的几个月，一切危险都会避免。事实上，这是一种对健康和精神都有好处的改变。安妮很少离开家，也很少见到她。她的情绪并不高涨。更大的社会会改善他们。她想让更多人知道她。

The undesirableness of any other house in the same neighbourhood for Sir Walter was certainly much strengthened by one part, and a very material part of the scheme, which had been happily engrafted on the beginning. He was not only to quit his home, but to see it in the hands of others; a trial of fortitude, which stronger heads than Sir Walter’s have found too much. Kellynch Hall was to be let. This, however, was a profound secret, not to be breathed beyond their own circle.
沃尔特爵士对同一街区的任何其他房子的不受欢迎程度肯定因该计划的一个部分而大大加强，而且该计划的一个非常重要的部分，该计划从一开始就很愉快地植入了。他不仅要离开自己的家，还要看到它落入他人手中。这是对毅力的考验，比沃尔特爵士更坚强的头脑已经发现了太多。凯林奇大厅将被出租。然而，这是一个天大的秘密，不能泄露到自己的圈子之外。

Sir Walter could not have borne the degradation of being known to design letting his house. Mr Shepherd had once mentioned the word ‘advertise,’ but never dared approach it again. Sir Walter spurned the idea of its being offered in any manner; forbad the slightest hint being dropped of his having such an intention; and it was only on the supposition of his being spontaneously solicited by some most unexceptionable applicant, on his own terms, and as a great favour, that he would let it at all.
沃尔特爵士无法忍受因设计出租房屋而出名而受到的侮辱。谢泼德先生曾经提到过“做广告”这个词，但再也不敢提及。沃尔特爵士拒绝了以任何方式提供它的想法。不允许有任何暗示他有这样的意图；只有假设某个最无可挑剔的申请人自发地向他请求，按照他自己的条件，并作为一个很大的恩惠，他才会同意。

How quick come the reasons for approving what we like! Lady Russell had another excellent one at hand, for being extremely glad that Sir Walter and his family were to remove from the country. Elizabeth had been lately forming an intimacy, which she wished to see interrupted. It was with the daughter of Mr Shepherd, who had returned, after an unprosperous marriage, to her father’s house, with the additional burden of two children. She was a clever young woman, who understood the art of pleasing—the art of pleasing, at least, at Kellynch Hall; and who had made herself so acceptable to Miss Elliot, as to have been already staying there more than once, in spite of all that Lady Russell, who thought it a friendship quite out of place, could hint of caution and reserve.
批准我们喜欢的事情的理由来得多么快啊！拉塞尔夫人手头还有另一件出色的事，她对沃尔特爵士和他的家人要离开这个国家感到非常高兴。伊丽莎白最近一直在形成一种亲密关系，她希望看到这种关系被打断。这是谢泼德先生的女儿，她在经历了一次不成功的婚姻后，带着两个孩子的额外负担回到了她父亲的家。她是一位聪明的年轻女子，懂得取悦他人的艺术——至少在凯林奇庄园是这样的。她让埃利奥特小姐如此接受，以至于已经不止一次地住在那里，尽管拉塞尔夫人认为这是一种完全不合适的友谊，可能暗示着谨慎和保留。

Lady Russell, indeed, had scarcely any influence with Elizabeth, and seemed to love her, rather because she would love her, than because Elizabeth deserved it. She had never received from her more than outward attention, nothing beyond the observances of complaisance; had never succeeded in any point which she wanted to carry, against previous inclination. She had been repeatedly very earnest in trying to get Anne included in the visit to London, sensibly open to all the injustice and all the discredit of the selfish arrangements which shut her out, and on many lesser occasions had endeavoured to give Elizabeth the advantage of her own better judgement and experience; but always in vain: Elizabeth would go her own way; and never had she pursued it in more decided opposition to Lady Russell than in this selection of Mrs Clay; turning from the society of so deserving a sister, to bestow her affection and confidence on one who ought to have been nothing to her but the object of distant civility.
事实上，拉塞尔夫人对伊丽莎白几乎没有任何影响，而且似乎很爱她，更多的是因为她愿意爱她，而不是因为伊丽莎白应得的。她从来没有从她那里得到过更多的外在关注，除了奉承之外没有什么。与之前的倾向相反，她想要提出的任何一点都从未成功过。她一再非常热心地试图让安妮参加对伦敦的访问，明智地接受所有不公正和所有将她拒之门外的自私安排的耻辱，并且在许多次要的场合，还努力为伊丽莎白提供优势。她自己更好的判断和经验；但总是徒劳：伊丽莎白会走自己的路；她从来没有像这次选择克莱夫人那样坚决反对拉塞尔夫人。她离开了如此值得的姐妹的社会，把她的感情和信任赋予了一个对她来说除了遥远的礼貌对象之外什么都不是的人。

From situation, Mrs Clay was, in Lady Russell’s estimate, a very unequal, and in her character she believed a very dangerous companion; and a removal that would leave Mrs Clay behind, and bring a choice of more suitable intimates within Miss Elliot’s reach, was therefore an object of first-rate importance.
从情况来看，按照拉塞尔夫人的估计，克莱夫人是一个非常不平等的人，而且就她的性格而言，她相信她是一个非常危险的伴侣。因此，将克莱夫人抛在身后，并在埃利奥特小姐的能力范围内选择更合适的亲密关系，是一个非常重要的目标。

Chapter 3
第3章

‘I must take leave to observe, Sir Walter,’ said Mr Shepherd one morning at Kellynch Hall, as he laid down the newspaper, ‘that the present juncture is much in our favour. This peace will be turning all our rich naval officers ashore. They will be all wanting a home. Could not be a better time, Sir Walter, for having a choice of tenants, very responsible tenants. Many a noble fortune has been made during the war. If a rich admiral were to come in our way, Sir Walter—‘
“我必须请假，沃尔特爵士，”一天早上，谢泼德先生在凯林奇庄园放下报纸时说道，“目前的形势对我们非常有利。”这种和平将使我们所有富有的海军军官都上岸。他们都想要一个家。沃尔特爵士，现在正是选择租户、非常负责任的租户的最佳时机。许多人在战争期间获得了丰厚的财富。如果一位富有的海军上将来挡我们的路，沃尔特爵士——”

‘He would be a very lucky man, Shepherd,’ replied Sir Walter; ‘that’s all I have to remark. A prize indeed would Kellynch Hall be to him; rather the greatest prize of all, let him have taken ever so many before; hey, Shepherd?’
“他会是一个非常幸运的人，谢泼德，”沃尔特爵士回答道。 “这就是我要说的。凯林奇庄园对他来说确实是一个奖品；更确切地说，这是所有奖品中最大的奖品，让他以前获得过这么多奖品吧；嘿，牧羊人？

Mr Shepherd laughed, as he knew he must, at this wit, and then added—
谢泼德先生笑了，因为他知道他一定会因为这个机智而笑，然后补充道——

‘I presume to observe, Sir Walter, that, in the way of business, gentlemen of the navy are well to deal with. I have had a little knowledge of their methods of doing business; and I am free to confess that they have very liberal notions, and are as likely to make desirable tenants as any set of people one should meet with. Therefore, Sir Walter, what I would take leave to suggest is, that if in consequence of any rumours getting abroad of your intention; which must be contemplated as a possible thing, because we know how difficult it is to keep the actions and designs of one part of the world from the notice and curiosity of the other; consequence has its tax; I, John Shepherd, might conceal any family-matters that I chose, for nobody would think it worth their while to observe me; but Sir Walter Elliot has eyes upon him which it may be very difficult to elude; and therefore, thus much I venture upon, that it will not greatly surprise me if, with all our caution, some rumour of the truth should get abroad; in the supposition of which, as I was going to observe, since applications will unquestionably follow, I should think any from our wealthy naval commanders particularly worth attending to; and beg leave to add, that two hours will bring me over at any time, to save you the trouble of replying.’
“沃尔特爵士，我认为，在生意上，海军先生们是很好相处的。我对他们做生意的方法有一点了解；我可以坦白地承认，他们有非常自由的观念，并且与人们应该遇到的任何一群人一样有可能成为理想的房客。因此，沃尔特爵士，我想请假建议的是，如果有任何关于您的意图的谣言流传开来；必须将其视为一件可能的事情，因为我们知道要让世界某一部分的行为和设计不被另一部分注意到和好奇是多么困难；后果自有其税；我，约翰·谢泼德，可能会隐瞒我选择的任何家庭事务，因为没有人认为值得花时间观察我；但沃尔特·埃利奥特爵士已经盯上了他，很难回避。因此，我冒昧地说，即使我们非常谨慎，如果某些关于真相的谣言传到国外，我也不会感到太惊讶。假设，正如我将要观察的那样，由于毫无疑问将会提出申请，我认为来自我们富有的海军指挥官的任何申请都特别值得关注；请允许补充一下，两个小时我会随时过来，省去您回复的麻烦。

Sir Walter only nodded. But soon afterwards, rising and pacing the room, he observed sarcastically—
沃尔特爵士只是点点头。但不久之后，他起身在房间里踱步，讽刺地观察到——

‘There are few among the gentlemen of the navy, I imagine, who would not be surprised to find themselves in a house of this description.’
“我想，在海军绅士中，很少有人会对自己住在这样的房子里感到惊讶。”

‘They would look around them, no doubt, and bless their good fortune,’ said Mrs Clay, for Mrs Clay was present: her father had driven her over, nothing being of so much use to Mrs Clay’s health as a drive to Kellynch: ‘but I quite agree with my father in thinking a sailor might be a very desirable tenant. I have known a good deal of the profession; and besides their liberality, they are so neat and careful in all their ways! These valuable pictures of yours, Sir Walter, if you chose to leave them, would be perfectly safe. Everything in and about the house would be taken such excellent care of! The gardens and shrubberies would be kept in almost as high order as they are now. You need not be afraid, Miss Elliot, of your own sweet flower gardens being neglected.’
“毫无疑问，他们会环顾四周，并祝福他们好运，”克莱夫人说，因为克莱夫人在场：她父亲开车送她过去，没有什么比开车去凯林奇对克莱夫人的健康更有用的了： “但我非常同意我父亲的观点，认为水手可能是一个非常理想的房客。我对这个职业了解很多；除了他们的慷慨之外，他们在一切方面都如此整洁和小心！沃尔特爵士，如果您选择留下这些珍贵的照片，它们将非常安全。房子里和房子周围的一切都会得到很好的照顾！花园和灌木丛将保持几乎和现在一样高的秩序。艾略特小姐，你不必担心你自己的美丽花园被忽视。

‘As to all that,’ rejoined Sir Walter coolly, ‘supposing I were induced to let my house, I have by no means made up my mind as to the privileges to be annexed to it. I am not particularly disposed to favour a tenant. The park would be open to him of course, and few navy officers, or men of any other description, can have had such a range; but what restrictions I might impose on the use of the pleasure-grounds, is another thing. I am not fond of the idea of my shrubberies being always approachable; and I should recommend Miss Elliot to be on her guard with respect to her flower garden. I am very little disposed to grant a tenant of Kellynch Hall any extraordinary favour, I assure you, be he sailor or soldier.’
“至于这一切，”沃尔特爵士冷冷地回答道，“假设我被诱使出租了我的房子，我还没有决定要赋予它什么特权。我并不是特别偏向租客。公园当然会对他开放，很少有海军军官或任何其他类型的人能够拥有这样的射程；但我对游乐场的使用可能施加什么限制，则是另一回事了。我不喜欢我的灌木丛总是平易近人的。我建议埃利奥特小姐对她的花园保持警惕。我向你保证，我不太愿意给予凯林奇庄园的房客任何特别的恩惠，无论他是水手还是士兵。

After a short pause, Mr Shepherd presumed to say—
短暂的停顿后，谢泼德先生想说——

‘In all these cases, there are established usages which make everything plain and easy between landlord and tenant. Your interest, Sir Walter, is in pretty safe hands. Depend upon me for taking care that no tenant has more than his just rights. I venture to hint, that Sir Walter Elliot cannot be half so jealous for his own, as John Shepherd will be for him.’
“在所有这些情况下，都有既定的惯例，使房东和租客之间的一切变得简单明了。沃尔特爵士，您的利益掌握在相当安全的手中。请放心，我会确保所有房客都享有他应有的权利。我冒昧地暗示，沃尔特·埃利奥特爵士对自己的嫉妒程度不可能像约翰·谢泼德对他的嫉妒心那么大。

Here Anne spoke—
安妮说到这里——

‘The navy, I think, who have done so much for us, have at least an equal claim with any other set of men, for all the comforts and all the privileges which any home can give. Sailors work hard enough for their comforts, we must all allow.’
“我认为，海军为我们做出了如此多的贡献，至少与其他任何人一样，都享有任何家庭所能给予的所有舒适和所有特权。水手们为了舒适而努力工作，我们都必须承认。”

‘Very true, very true. What Miss Anne says, is very true,’ was Mr Shepherd’s rejoinder, and ‘Oh! certainly,’ was his daughter’s; but Sir Walter’s remark was, soon afterwards—
‘非常真实，非常真实。安妮小姐说的非常正确，”谢泼德先生反驳道，“哦！当然，”是他女儿的；但不久之后沃尔特爵士的评论是——

‘The profession has its utility, but I should be sorry to see any friend of mine belonging to it.’
“这个职业有它的用处，但我会很遗憾看到我的任何朋友属于这个职业。”

‘Indeed!’ was the reply, and with a look of surprise.
“确实如此！”他的回答带着惊讶的表情。

‘Yes; it is in two points offensive to me; I have two strong grounds of objection to it. First, as being the means of bringing persons of obscure birth into undue distinction, and raising men to honours which their fathers and grandfathers never dreamt of; and secondly, as it cuts up a man’s youth and vigour most horribly; a sailor grows old sooner than any other man. I have observed it all my life. A man is in greater danger in the navy of being insulted by the rise of one whose father, his father might have disdained to speak to, and of becoming prematurely an object of disgust himself, than in any other line. One day last spring, in town, I was in company with two men, striking instances of what I am talking of; Lord St Ives, whose father we all know to have been a country curate, without bread to eat; I was to give place to Lord St Ives, and a certain Admiral Baldwin, the most deplorable-looking personage you can imagine; his face the colour of mahogany, rough and rugged to the last degree; all lines and wrinkles, nine grey hairs of a side, and nothing but a dab of powder at top. ‘In the name of heaven, who is that old fellow?’ said I to a friend of mine who was standing near, (Sir Basil Morley). ‘Old fellow!’ cried Sir Basil, ‘it is Admiral Baldwin. What do you take his age to be?’ ‘Sixty,’ said I, ‘or perhaps sixty-two.’ ‘Forty,’ replied Sir Basil, ‘forty, and no more.’ Picture to yourselves my amazement; I shall not easily forget Admiral Baldwin. I never saw quite so wretched an example of what a sea-faring life can do; but to a degree, I know it is the same with them all: they are all knocked about, and exposed to every climate, and every weather, till they are not fit to be seen. It is a pity they are not knocked on the head at once, before they reach Admiral Baldwin’s age.’
'是的;有两点对我来说是冒犯的；我有两个强烈的理由反对它。首先，它是使出身卑微的人获得不适当的区别的手段，并使人们获得他们的父辈和祖父从未梦想过的荣誉；其次，它最可怕地削弱了一个人的青春和活力；水手比其他人都老得早。我一生都在观察它。一个人在海军中比在其他任何行列中面临更大的危险，因为他的父亲可能不屑于与他的父亲交谈，而他的父亲可能会因他的崛起而受到侮辱，并且他自己过早地成为厌恶的对象。去年春天的一天，在城里，我和两个男人在一起，他们的例子很明显地体现了我所说的情况。圣艾夫斯勋爵，我们都知道他的父亲是一位乡村牧师，没有面包吃。我要让位给圣艾夫斯勋爵和一位海军上将鲍德温，他们是你能想象到的长相最可悲的人物。他的脸呈桃花心木色，粗糙到了极点。所有的细纹和皱纹，一侧的九根白发，除了顶部的一点粉末之外什么也没有。 “看在上帝的份上，那个老家伙是谁？”我对站在附近的一位朋友（巴兹尔·莫利爵士）说道。 “老伙计！”巴兹尔爵士喊道，“这是鲍德温海军上将。” “你猜他的年龄是多少？” “六十岁，”我说，“或者也许是六十二岁。” “四十岁，”巴兹尔爵士回答道，“四十岁，仅此而已。” 你们想象一下我的惊讶吧；我不会轻易忘记鲍德温海军上将。我从来没有见过如此悲惨的航海生活的例子。但在某种程度上，我知道它们所有人都是一样的：它们都被撞坏了，暴露在各种气候和天气下，直到它们不适合被人看见。 遗憾的是，在他们达到鲍德温海军上将的年龄之前，他们并没有立即受到打击。’

‘Nay, Sir Walter,’ cried Mrs Clay, ‘this is being severe indeed. Have a little mercy on the poor men. We are not all born to be handsome. The sea is no beautifier, certainly; sailors do grow old betimes; I have observed it; they soon lose the look of youth. But then, is not it the same with many other professions, perhaps most other? Soldiers, in active service, are not at all better off: and even in the quieter professions, there is a toil and a labour of the mind, if not of the body, which seldom leaves a man’s looks to the natural effect of time. The lawyer plods, quite care-worn; the physician is up at all hours, and travelling in all weather; and even the clergyman—‘ she stopt a moment to consider what might do for the clergyman;—‘and even the clergyman, you know is obliged to go into infected rooms, and expose his health and looks to all the injury of a poisonous atmosphere. In fact, as I have long been convinced, though every profession is necessary and honourable in its turn, it is only the lot of those who are not obliged to follow any, who can live in a regular way, in the country, choosing their own hours, following their own pursuits, and living on their own property, without the torment of trying for more; it is only their lot, I say, to hold the blessings of health and a good appearance to the utmost: I know no other set of men but what lose something of their personableness when they cease to be quite young.’
“不，沃尔特爵士，”克莱夫人喊道，“这确实很严重。对穷人仁慈一点吧。我们并非都是生来就英俊的。当然，大海并不是美化者。水手们有时会变老；我观察到了；他们很快就失去了青春的容貌。但是，许多其他职业（也许是大多数其他职业）不也是如此吗？服役中的士兵的境况也丝毫没有好转：即使是在比较安静的职业中，即使不是体力劳动，也需要脑力劳动，这很少会让一个人的容貌受到时间的自然影响。律师步调沉重，疲惫不堪。医生全天候工作，不受天气影响；甚至连牧师——”她停下来考虑一下可以为牧师做些什么；——“甚至牧师，你知道，也必须进入受感染的房间，暴露他的健康状况，并承受有毒气体造成的所有伤害。 。事实上，正如我长期以来所相信的那样，尽管每一种职业本身都是必要的和光荣的，但只有那些没有义务从事任何职业的人才能在乡村过上正常的生活，选择自己的职业。拥有自己的时间，追随自己的追求，靠自己的财产生活，而无需为追求更多而苦恼；我想说的是，他们的命运就是最大限度地保有健康和美丽的外表：我不知道还有哪一群人，他们一旦不再年轻，就会失去一些风度。

It seemed as if Mr Shepherd, in this anxiety to bespeak Sir Walter’s good will towards a naval officer as tenant, had been gifted with foresight; for the very first application for the house was from an Admiral Croft, with whom he shortly afterwards fell into company in attending the quarter sessions at Taunton; and indeed, he had received a hint of the Admiral from a London correspondent. By the report which he hastened over to Kellynch to make, Admiral Croft was a native of Somersetshire, who having acquired a very handsome fortune, was wishing to settle in his own country, and had come down to Taunton in order to look at some advertised places in that immediate neighbourhood, which, however, had not suited him; that accidentally hearing—(it was just as he had foretold, Mr Shepherd observed, Sir Walter’s concerns could not be kept a secret,)— accidentally hearing of the possibility of Kellynch Hall being to let, and understanding his (Mr Shepherd’s) connection with the owner, he had introduced himself to him in order to make particular inquiries, and had, in the course of a pretty long conference, expressed as strong an inclination for the place as a man who knew it only by description could feel; and given Mr Shepherd, in his explicit account of himself, every proof of his being a most responsible, eligible tenant.
谢泼德先生急于表明沃尔特爵士对作为佃农的海军军官的良好意愿，看来谢泼德先生很有先见之明。因为第一个申请这座房子的人是一位海军上将克罗夫特，不久之后他就和他一起参加了汤顿的季度会议。事实上，他从一位伦敦记者那里得到了海军上将的暗示。根据克罗夫特上将赶往凯林奇的报告，克罗夫特上将是萨默塞特郡人，他获得了一笔非常可观的财富，希望在自己的国家定居，所以来到汤顿是为了看看一些广告上的广告。那个附近的地方，然而，这不适合他；偶然听到——（正如他所预言的，谢泼德先生观察到，沃尔特爵士的担忧不能保密，）——无意中听到凯林奇庄园出租的可能性，并了解他（谢泼德先生）与他向老板做了自我介绍，以便进行具体询问，并在一次相当长的会议过程中，表达了对这个地方的强烈兴趣，就像一个只通过描述了解它的人所能感受到的那样；谢泼德先生在他对自己的明确描述中提供了一切证据，证明他是一个最负责任、最合格的租户。

‘And who is Admiral Croft?’ was Sir Walter’s cold suspicious inquiry.
“克罗夫特海军上将是谁？”沃尔特爵士冷冷而可疑地问道。

Mr Shepherd answered for his being of a gentleman’s family, and mentioned a place; and Anne, after the little pause which followed, added—
谢泼德先生回答说他是绅士家庭，并提到了一个地方。安妮在随后的短暂停顿后补充道——

‘He is a rear admiral of the white. He was in the Trafalgar action, and has been in the East Indies since; he was stationed there, I believe, several years.’
“他是一名白人海军少将。他参加了特拉法加行动，此后一直在东印度群岛。我相信他在那里驻扎了好几年。

‘Then I take it for granted,’ observed Sir Walter, ‘that his face is about as orange as the cuffs and capes of my livery.’
“那么我理所当然地认为，”沃尔特爵士说道，“他的脸和我制服的袖口和斗篷一样是橙色的。”

Mr Shepherd hastened to assure him, that Admiral Croft was a very hale, hearty, well-looking man, a little weather-beaten, to be sure, but not much, and quite the gentleman in all his notions and behaviour; not likely to make the smallest difficulty about terms, only wanted a comfortable home, and to get into it as soon as possible; knew he must pay for his convenience; knew what rent a ready-furnished house of that consequence might fetch; should not have been surprised if Sir Walter had asked more; had inquired about the manor; would be glad of the deputation, certainly, but made no great point of it; said he sometimes took out a gun, but never killed; quite the gentleman.
谢泼德先生连忙向他保证，克罗夫特海军上将是一个非常精神抖擞、精神饱满、英俊潇洒的人，确实有点饱经风霜，但并不严重，在所有观念和行为上都是一位绅士。不太可能在条款上有丝毫的困难，只想要一个舒适的家，并尽快入住；知道他必须为自己的便利付出代价；知道这样的现成房子的租金可能会多少钱；如果沃尔特爵士问得更多，我也不应该感到惊讶；询问过庄园的情况；当然，他会对代表团的到来感到高兴，但并没有大肆宣扬。说他有时会拿出枪，但从未杀人；相当绅士。

Mr Shepherd was eloquent on the subject; pointing out all the circumstances of the Admiral’s family, which made him peculiarly desirable as a tenant. He was a married man, and without children; the very state to be wished for. A house was never taken good care of, Mr Shepherd observed, without a lady: he did not know, whether furniture might not be in danger of suffering as much where there was no lady, as where there were many children. A lady, without a family, was the very best preserver of furniture in the world. He had seen Mrs Croft, too; she was at Taunton with the admiral, and had been present almost all the time they were talking the matter over.
谢泼德先生在这个问题上滔滔不绝。指出了海军上将家庭的所有情况，这使他成为特别受欢迎的房客。他已婚，没有孩子。正是人们所希望的状态。谢泼德先生观察到，没有一位女士，房子永远不会得到很好的照顾：他不知道，没有女士的地方，家具是否会像有很多孩子的地方一样，面临遭受损坏的危险。一位没有家庭的女士是世界上最好的家具保护者。他也见过克罗夫特太太。她和海军上将一起在汤顿，几乎每次他们讨论这件事的时候她都在场。

‘And a very well-spoken, genteel, shrewd lady, she seemed to be,’ continued he; ‘asked more questions about the house, and terms, and taxes, than the Admiral himself, and seemed more conversant with business; and moreover, Sir Walter, I found she was not quite unconnected in this country, any more than her husband; that is to say, she is sister to a gentleman who did live amongst us once; she told me so herself: sister to the gentleman who lived a few years back at Monkford. Bless me! what was his name? At this moment I cannot recollect his name, though I have heard it so lately. Penelope, my dear, can you help me to the name of the gentleman who lived at Monkford: Mrs Croft’s brother?’
“她看起来是一位非常能言善道、彬彬有礼、精明的女士，”他继续说道。 “比海军上将本人询问更多有关房屋、条款和税收的问题，而且似乎更熟悉生意；而且，沃尔特爵士，我发现她在这个国家并不是完全没有联系，就像她的丈夫一样。也就是说，她是一位曾在我们中间生活过的绅士的妹妹；她亲口告诉我的：几年前住在蒙克福德的一位绅士的妹妹。保佑我（宗教！他叫什么名字？现在我记不起他的名字了，尽管我最近才听到过。佩内洛普，亲爱的，你能帮我知道住在蒙克福德的那位绅士的名字吗：克罗夫特夫人的兄弟？

But Mrs Clay was talking so eagerly with Miss Elliot, that she did not hear the appeal.
但克莱夫人正与埃利奥特小姐交谈得如此热切，以至于她没有听到呼吁。

‘I have no conception whom you can mean, Shepherd; I remember no gentleman resident at Monkford since the time of old Governor Trent.’
“我不知道你指的是谁，牧羊人；我记得自老总督特伦特以来，蒙克福德就没有绅士居住过。

‘Bless me! how very odd! I shall forget my own name soon, I suppose. A name that I am so very well acquainted with; knew the gentleman so well by sight; seen him a hundred times; came to consult me once, I remember, about a trespass of one of his neighbours; farmer’s man breaking into his orchard; wall torn down; apples stolen; caught in the fact; and afterwards, contrary to my judgement, submitted to an amicable compromise. Very odd indeed!’
'保佑我（宗教！多么奇怪啊！我想我很快就会忘记自己的名字。一个我非常熟悉的名字；这位先生一眼就认得出来；见过他一百次；我记得有一次，他来咨询我关于他的一个邻居的侵犯行为。农夫闯入他的果园；墙被推倒；苹果被盗；陷入事实之中；后来，与我的判断相反，双方达成了友好妥协。确实很奇怪！

After waiting another moment—
又等了一会儿——

‘You mean Mr Wentworth, I suppose?’ said Anne.
“我想你是说温特沃斯先生吧？”安妮说。

Mr Shepherd was all gratitude.
谢泼德先生满怀感激之情。

‘Wentworth was the very name! Mr Wentworth was the very man. He had the curacy of Monkford, you know, Sir Walter, some time back, for two or three years. Came there about the year —-5, I take it. You remember him, I am sure.’
‘温特沃斯就是这个名字！温特沃斯先生就是那个人。沃尔特爵士，你知道，他曾经担任过蒙克福德神父，有两三年了。大概是在--5年左右来的，我想是这样。我确信你还记得他。

‘Wentworth? Oh! ay,—Mr Wentworth, the curate of Monkford. You misled me by the term gentleman. I thought you were speaking of some man of property: Mr Wentworth was nobody, I remember; quite unconnected; nothing to do with the Strafford family. One wonders how the names of many of our nobility become so common.’
“温特沃斯？哦！哎，——温特沃斯先生，蒙克福德的牧师。你用绅士这个词误导了我。我以为你说的是​​某个有钱人：温特沃斯先生没什么名气，我记得；完全没有联系；与斯特拉福德家族无关。人们想知道我们许多贵族的名字是如何变得如此普遍的。

As Mr Shepherd perceived that this connexion of the Crofts did them no service with Sir Walter, he mentioned it no more; returning, with all his zeal, to dwell on the circumstances more indisputably in their favour; their age, and number, and fortune; the high idea they had formed of Kellynch Hall, and extreme solicitude for the advantage of renting it; making it appear as if they ranked nothing beyond the happiness of being the tenants of Sir Walter Elliot: an extraordinary taste, certainly, could they have been supposed in the secret of Sir Walter’s estimate of the dues of a tenant.
谢泼德先生意识到克罗夫特夫妇与沃尔特爵士的这种联系对他们没有任何帮助，因此他不再提及此事。他满怀热情地回来，仔细研究毫无争议地对他们有利的情况；他们的年龄、人数和财富；他们对凯林奇庄园抱有很高的期望，并且对租用它的好处极为关心；看起来他们似乎除了成为沃尔特·埃利奥特爵士的房客的幸福之外没有什么可比的：当然，他们在沃尔特·埃利奥特爵士对房客的会费估算的秘密中可以被认为是一种非凡的品味。

It succeeded, however; and though Sir Walter must ever look with an evil eye on anyone intending to inhabit that house, and think them infinitely too well off in being permitted to rent it on the highest terms, he was talked into allowing Mr Shepherd to proceed in the treaty, and authorising him to wait on Admiral Croft, who still remained at Taunton, and fix a day for the house being seen.
然而，它成功了；尽管沃尔特爵士一定会对任何打算居住在这所房子里的人抱有恶意，并认为他们被允许以最高的条件租用它，但他还是被说服允许谢泼德先生继续执行条约，并授权他等待仍留在汤顿的克罗夫特海军上将，并确定参观房子的日期。

Sir Walter was not very wise; but still he had experience enough of the world to feel, that a more unobjectionable tenant, in all essentials, than Admiral Croft bid fair to be, could hardly offer. So far went his understanding; and his vanity supplied a little additional soothing, in the Admiral’s situation in life, which was just high enough, and not too high. ‘I have let my house to Admiral Croft,’ would sound extremely well; very much better than to any mere Mr—; a Mr (save, perhaps, some half dozen in the nation,) always needs a note of explanation. An admiral speaks his own consequence, and, at the same time, can never make a baronet look small. In all their dealings and intercourse, Sir Walter Elliot must ever have the precedence.
沃尔特爵士不太聪明。但他仍然对这个世界有足够的经验，觉得一个在所有要素上都比克罗夫特海军上将公平地评价的更无可反驳的房客很难提供。他的理解就到此为止了。他的虚荣心为海军上将的生活状况提供了一点额外的安慰，他的生活状况刚刚好，但也不是太高。 “我已经把我的房子租给了克罗夫特海军上将”，这听起来非常好；比对任何一个单纯的先生好得多；一位先生（或许除了全国六名先生之外）总是需要一份解释说明。一位海军上将说出了自己的结论，同时，也决不能让从男爵显得渺小。在他们所有的交往和交往中，沃尔特·埃利奥特爵士必须始终处于优先地位。

Nothing could be done without a reference to Elizabeth: but her inclination was growing so strong for a removal, that she was happy to have it fixed and expedited by a tenant at hand; and not a word to suspend decision was uttered by her.
如果不提及伊丽莎白，什么事都做不了：但她越来越强烈地想要搬走，所以她很高兴能由手头的租客来修复和加速；她没有说出任何暂停决定的话。

Mr Shepherd was completely empowered to act; and no sooner had such an end been reached, than Anne, who had been a most attentive listener to the whole, left the room, to seek the comfort of cool air for her flushed cheeks; and as she walked along a favourite grove, said, with a gentle sigh, ‘A few months more, and he, perhaps, may be walking here.’
谢泼德先生完全有权采取行动；话一说完，安妮就离开了房间，她一直是最专注的倾听者，她红红的脸颊上有凉气，可以让她感到舒服。当她沿着最喜欢的小树林散步时，轻轻地叹了口气说：“再过几个月，他也许就会走在这里。”

Chapter 4
第4章

He was not Mr Wentworth, the former curate of Monkford, however suspicious appearances may be, but a Captain Frederick Wentworth, his brother, who being made commander in consequence of the action off St Domingo, and not immediately employed, had come into Somersetshire, in the summer of 1806; and having no parent living, found a home for half a year at Monkford. He was, at that time, a remarkably fine young man, with a great deal of intelligence, spirit, and brilliancy; and Anne an extremely pretty girl, with gentleness, modesty, taste, and feeling. Half the sum of attraction, on either side, might have been enough, for he had nothing to do, and she had hardly anybody to love; but the encounter of such lavish recommendations could not fail. They were gradually acquainted, and when acquainted, rapidly and deeply in love. It would be difficult to say which had seen highest perfection in the other, or which had been the happiest: she, in receiving his declarations and proposals, or he in having them accepted.
他不是蒙克福德的前牧师温特沃斯先生，无论外表多么可疑，而是他的兄弟弗雷德里克·温特沃斯上尉，他在圣多明戈附近的行动中被任命为指挥官，但没有立即受聘，已经进入萨默塞特郡， 1806年夏天；由于没有父母居住，他在蒙克福德找到了半年的家。那时，他是一个非常优秀的年轻人，充满智慧、精神和才华。安妮是一个非常漂亮的女孩，温柔、谦虚、有品位、有感情。双方的吸引力的一半可能就足够了，因为他无事可做，而她几乎没有任何人可以爱；但如此慷慨的建议不可能会失败。他们逐渐熟悉，熟悉之后迅速而深入地相爱。很难说谁在对方身上看到了最高的完美，或者谁是最幸福的：是她接受了他的声明和建议，还是他接受了这些声明和建议。

A short period of exquisite felicity followed, and but a short one. Troubles soon arose. Sir Walter, on being applied to, without actually withholding his consent, or saying it should never be, gave it all the negative of great astonishment, great coldness, great silence, and a professed resolution of doing nothing for his daughter. He thought it a very degrading alliance; and Lady Russell, though with more tempered and pardonable pride, received it as a most unfortunate one.
接下来是一段短暂的幸福时光，但是很短暂。麻烦很快就出现了。沃尔特爵士在接到请求后，并没有真正拒绝同意，或者说永远不应该同意，他给了这一切否定的答案，包括极大的惊讶、极大的冷漠、极大的沉默，并公开表示决心不为他的女儿做任何事。他认为这是一个非常有辱人格的联盟。拉塞尔夫人虽然带着比较温和、可以原谅的骄傲，但也认为这是一件最不幸的事。

Anne Elliot, with all her claims of birth, beauty, and mind, to throw herself away at nineteen; involve herself at nineteen in an engagement with a young man, who had nothing but himself to recommend him, and no hopes of attaining affluence, but in the chances of a most uncertain profession, and no connexions to secure even his farther rise in the profession, would be, indeed, a throwing away, which she grieved to think of! Anne Elliot, so young; known to so few, to be snatched off by a stranger without alliance or fortune; or rather sunk by him into a state of most wearing, anxious, youth-killing dependence! It must not be, if by any fair interference of friendship, any representations from one who had almost a mother’s love, and mother’s rights, it would be prevented.
安妮·埃利奥特尽管自称出生、美丽、聪明，却在十九岁时就自杀了；十九岁的时候，她与一个年轻人订婚，这个年轻人除了自己之外没有其他任何东西可以推荐他，没有希望获得富裕，但有一个最不确定的职业机会，没有任何关系可以确保他在职业上进一步发展，确实是一种扔掉，她想到这一点就感到悲伤！安妮·埃利奥特，那么年轻；很少有人知道，在没有联盟或财富的情况下被陌生人抢走；或者更确切地说，让他陷入了一种最疲惫、最焦虑、最扼杀青春的依赖状态！如果出于对友谊的任何公平干涉，一个几乎拥有母爱和母亲权利的人的任何陈述都不能被阻止。

Captain Wentworth had no fortune. He had been lucky in his profession; but spending freely, what had come freely, had realized nothing. But he was confident that he should soon be rich: full of life and ardour, he knew that he should soon have a ship, and soon be on a station that would lead to everything he wanted. He had always been lucky; he knew he should be so still. Such confidence, powerful in its own warmth, and bewitching in the wit which often expressed it, must have been enough for Anne; but Lady Russell saw it very differently. His sanguine temper, and fearlessness of mind, operated very differently on her. She saw in it but an aggravation of the evil. It only added a dangerous character to himself. He was brilliant, he was headstrong. Lady Russell had little taste for wit, and of anything approaching to imprudence a horror. She deprecated the connexion in every light.
温特沃斯上尉没有财产。他的职业生涯很幸运。但随意花钱，随意得到的东西，却什么也没有实现。但他相信自己很快就会变得富有：充满生机和热情，他知道他很快就会拥有一艘船，很快就会到达一个可以通向他想要的一切的空间站。他一直很幸运。他知道自己应该保持安静。这种自信，其本身的温暖是强大的，并且经常表现出的机智令人着迷，对安妮来说一定已经足够了。但拉塞尔夫人的看法却截然不同。他乐观的脾气和无畏的精神对她产生了截然不同的影响。她从中看到的只是邪恶的加剧。这只给自己增添了危险的性格。他很聪明，他很任性。拉塞尔夫人对机智没什么兴趣，对任何近乎轻率的行为都感到恐惧。她从各个角度都不赞成这种联系。

Such opposition, as these feelings produced, was more than Anne could combat. Young and gentle as she was, it might yet have been possible to withstand her father’s ill-will, though unsoftened by one kind word or look on the part of her sister; but Lady Russell, whom she had always loved and relied on, could not, with such steadiness of opinion, and such tenderness of manner, be continually advising her in vain. She was persuaded to believe the engagement a wrong thing: indiscreet, improper, hardly capable of success, and not deserving it. But it was not a merely selfish caution, under which she acted, in putting an end to it. Had she not imagined herself consulting his good, even more than her own, she could hardly have given him up. The belief of being prudent, and self-denying, principally for his advantage, was her chief consolation, under the misery of a parting, a final parting; and every consolation was required, for she had to encounter all the additional pain of opinions, on his side, totally unconvinced and unbending, and of his feeling himself ill used by so forced a relinquishment. He had left the country in consequence.
这些感情所产生的这种反对是安妮无法抗拒的。尽管她年轻而温柔，但她也许可以承受父亲的恶意，尽管她姐姐的善意话语或眼神并没有软化她；但她一直爱戴、信赖的拉塞尔夫人，以如此坚定的意见和如此温柔的态度，不可能不断地给她徒劳的建议。她被说服相信这次订婚是一件错误的事情：轻率、不恰当、几乎不可能成功、也不值得。但这不仅仅是一种自私的警告，她是根据这种警告采取行动来结束这一切的。如果她没有想到自己会考虑他的利益，甚至更多地考虑他自己的利益，她几乎不可能放弃他。在离别的痛苦中，她最大的安慰是，要谨慎、克己，主要​​是为了他的利益。她需要一切安慰，因为她不得不面对所有额外的痛苦，因为他的意见完全不被说服和不屈服，而且他觉得自己被如此强迫的放弃所虐待。结果他离开了这个国家。

A few months had seen the beginning and the end of their acquaintance; but not with a few months ended Anne’s share of suffering from it. Her attachment and regrets had, for a long time, clouded every enjoyment of youth, and an early loss of bloom and spirits had been their lasting effect.
他们相识的开始和结束只有几个月的时间。但几个月后，安妮的痛苦就结束了。她的执着和悔恨，在很长一段时间里，给青春的一切享受蒙上阴影，造成了长久的影响，让她早早失去了青春和活力。

More than seven years were gone since this little history of sorrowful interest had reached its close; and time had softened down much, perhaps nearly all of peculiar attachment to him, but she had been too dependent on time alone; no aid had been given in change of place (except in one visit to Bath soon after the rupture), or in any novelty or enlargement of society. No one had ever come within the Kellynch circle, who could bear a comparison with Frederick Wentworth, as he stood in her memory. No second attachment, the only thoroughly natural, happy, and sufficient cure, at her time of life, had been possible to the nice tone of her mind, the fastidiousness of her taste, in the small limits of the society around them. She had been solicited, when about two-and-twenty, to change her name, by the young man, who not long afterwards found a more willing mind in her younger sister; and Lady Russell had lamented her refusal; for Charles Musgrove was the eldest son of a man, whose landed property and general importance were second in that country, only to Sir Walter’s, and of good character and appearance; and however Lady Russell might have asked yet for something more, while Anne was nineteen, she would have rejoiced to see her at twenty-two so respectably removed from the partialities and injustice of her father’s house, and settled so permanently near herself. But in this case, Anne had left nothing for advice to do; and though Lady Russell, as satisfied as ever with her own discretion, never wished the past undone, she began now to have the anxiety which borders on hopelessness for Anne’s being tempted, by some man of talents and independence, to enter a state for which she held her to be peculiarly fitted by her warm affections and domestic habits.
距离这段令人悲伤的小历史结束已有七年多了。时间已经软化了很多，也许几乎是所有对他的特殊依恋，但她太依赖时间了。没有提供任何改变地点的援助（除了在破裂后不久访问巴斯的一次），也没有提供任何新奇或社会扩大的援助。凯林奇圈子里从来没有人能够与她记忆中的弗雷德里克·温特沃斯相提并论。在她的一生中，在她周围的社会的狭小范围内，没有第二个依恋，唯一完全自然的、快乐的和充分的治疗方法，对她良好的心态、她挑剔的品味是可能的。大约在她两岁半的时候，那个年轻人曾恳求她改名，不久之后，他发现她的妹妹更愿意改名。拉塞尔夫人对她的拒绝感到遗憾。因为查尔斯·穆斯格罗夫是一个男人的长子，他的土地财产和一般重要性在这个国家仅次于沃尔特爵士，而且品格和外表都很好。然而，罗素夫人可能还要求更多，而安妮十九岁的时候，她会很高兴看到她在二十二岁时如此体面地摆脱了她父亲家族的偏袒和不公正，并永久地定居在自己身边。但在这种情况下，安妮没有留下任何建议可做。尽管拉塞尔夫人一如既往地对自己的判断力感到满意，从未希望过去的事情能够挽回，但她现在开始感到近乎绝望的焦虑，因为安妮被某个有才华和独立的人所诱惑，进入了一种近乎绝望的状态。她认为她的热情和家庭习惯特别适合她。

They knew not each other’s opinion, either its constancy or its change, on the one leading point of Anne’s conduct, for the subject was never alluded to; but Anne, at seven-and-twenty, thought very differently from what she had been made to think at nineteen. She did not blame Lady Russell, she did not blame herself for having been guided by her; but she felt that were any young person, in similar circumstances, to apply to her for counsel, they would never receive any of such certain immediate wretchedness, such uncertain future good. She was persuaded that under every disadvantage of disapprobation at home, and every anxiety attending his profession, all their probable fears, delays, and disappointments, she should yet have been a happier woman in maintaining the engagement, than she had been in the sacrifice of it; and this, she fully believed, had the usual share, had even more than the usual share of all such solicitudes and suspense been theirs, without reference to the actual results of their case, which, as it happened, would have bestowed earlier prosperity than could be reasonably calculated on. All his sanguine expectations, all his confidence had been justified. His genius and ardour had seemed to foresee and to command his prosperous path. He had, very soon after their engagement ceased, got employ: and all that he had told her would follow, had taken place. He had distinguished himself, and early gained the other step in rank, and must now, by successive captures, have made a handsome fortune. She had only navy lists and newspapers for her authority, but she could not doubt his being rich; and, in favour of his constancy, she had no reason to believe him married.
他们不知道彼此对安妮行为的一个主要观点的看法，无论是一贯的还是变化的，因为这个话题从未被提及过。但七岁和二十岁的安妮的想法与十九岁时的想法截然不同。她没有责怪拉塞尔夫人，她没有责怪自己受到她的引导；她没有责备自己。但她觉得，如果任何一个年轻人在类似的情况下向她寻求咨询，他们永远不会得到任何这种确定的眼前的不幸，这种不确定的未来的好处。她相信，在家里的不赞成的种种不利条件下，在他的职业中的每一种焦虑，以及所有可能的恐惧、拖延和失望的情况下，她应该是一个更幸福的女人，维持订婚，而不是牺牲自己的婚姻。它;她完全相信，这与平常一样，甚至比平常更多地属于他们所有的这种关心和悬念，不管他们案件的实际结果如何，碰巧的是，这会带来比平常更早的繁荣。可以合理计算。他所有的乐观期望、所有信心都是有道理的。他的天才和热情似乎预见并掌控了他的繁荣之路。他们订婚结束后不久，他就找到了工作：他告诉她会发生的一切都发生了。他表现出色，很早就获得了更高的地位，现在，通过连续的俘虏，他肯定已经赚了一笔可观的财富。她只有海军名单和报纸作为她的权威，但她不能怀疑他是富有的；而且，由于他的忠诚，她没有理由相信他结婚了。

How eloquent could Anne Elliot have been! how eloquent, at least, were her wishes on the side of early warm attachment, and a cheerful confidence in futurity, against that over-anxious caution which seems to insult exertion and distrust Providence! She had been forced into prudence in her youth, she learned romance as she grew older: the natural sequel of an unnatural beginning.
安妮·埃利奥特能说得多么雄辩啊！至少，她对早期温暖的依恋和对未来的乐观信心的愿望是多么雄辩，反对那种似乎侮辱努力和不信任上帝的过分焦虑的谨慎！她年轻时被迫变得谨慎，随着年龄的增长，她学会了浪漫：不自然的开始的自然结果。

With all these circumstances, recollections and feelings, she could not hear that Captain Wentworth’s sister was likely to live at Kellynch without a revival of former pain; and many a stroll, and many a sigh, were necessary to dispel the agitation of the idea. She often told herself it was folly, before she could harden her nerves sufficiently to feel the continual discussion of the Crofts and their business no evil. She was assisted, however, by that perfect indifference and apparent unconsciousness, among the only three of her own friends in the secret of the past, which seemed almost to deny any recollection of it. She could do justice to the superiority of Lady Russell’s motives in this, over those of her father and Elizabeth; she could honour all the better feelings of her calmness; but the general air of oblivion among them was highly important from whatever it sprung; and in the event of Admiral Croft’s really taking Kellynch Hall, she rejoiced anew over the conviction which had always been most grateful to her, of the past being known to those three only among her connexions, by whom no syllable, she believed, would ever be whispered, and in the trust that among his, the brother only with whom he had been residing, had received any information of their short-lived engagement. That brother had been long removed from the country and being a sensible man, and, moreover, a single man at the time, she had a fond dependence on no human creature’s having heard of it from him.
考虑到所有这些情况、回忆和感受，她听不出温特沃斯上尉的妹妹可能住在凯林奇，而不会再次出现以前的痛苦；为了消除这个想法的不安，需要多次漫步，多次叹息。她经常告诉自己这是愚蠢的，然后她才能够坚定自己的神经，感受到对克罗夫特夫妇及其生意的持续讨论并没有什么坏处。然而，她在过去的秘密中仅有的三个朋友中，却得到了那种完全的冷漠和明显的无意识的帮助，这似乎几乎否认了对过去的任何回忆。她可以公正地评价拉塞尔夫人在这方面的动机比她父亲和伊丽莎白的动机优越。她可以尊重她平静的所有美好感觉；但无论发生什么，他们中间普遍存在的一种被遗忘的气氛是非常重要的。如果克罗夫特上将真的占领了凯林奇霍尔，她会再次为她一直最感激的信念感到高兴，过去的事只有她的亲戚中的那三个人知道，她相信，他们不会说任何一个音节。窃窃私语，相信在他中间，只有和他住在一起的兄弟，已经收到了他们短暂订婚的消息。那个哥哥早已离开乡下，是个明白事理的人，而且当时还是单身汉，她非常依赖没有人从他那里听说过这件事。

The sister, Mrs Croft, had then been out of England, accompanying her husband on a foreign station, and her own sister, Mary, had been at school while it all occurred; and never admitted by the pride of some, and the delicacy of others, to the smallest knowledge of it afterwards.
当时，妹妹克罗夫特夫人已经离开英国，陪伴她的丈夫前往外国车站，而她自己的妹妹玛丽在这一切发生时正在上学。后来，由于某些人的骄傲和另一些人的敏感，他们从未承认过对此有哪怕一丁点的了解。

With these supports, she hoped that the acquaintance between herself and the Crofts, which, with Lady Russell, still resident in Kellynch, and Mary fixed only three miles off, must be anticipated, need not involve any particular awkwardness.
有了这些支持，她希望自己和克罗夫特一家的相识是可以预期的，因为拉塞尔夫人仍然住在凯林奇，而玛丽则住在三英里之外，这一定是可以预料到的，不会有任何特别的尴尬。

Chapter 5
第5章

On the morning appointed for Admiral and Mrs Croft’s seeing Kellynch Hall, Anne found it most natural to take her almost daily walk to Lady Russell’s, and keep out of the way till all was over; when she found it most natural to be sorry that she had missed the opportunity of seeing them.
在指定为海军上将和克罗夫特夫人拜访凯林奇庄园的那天早上，安妮发现最自然的做法是几乎每天都步行去拉塞尔夫人家，并在一切结束之前保持距离；当她发现自己很自然地为自己错过了见到他们的机会而感到遗憾时。

This meeting of the two parties proved highly satisfactory, and decided the whole business at once. Each lady was previously well disposed for an agreement, and saw nothing, therefore, but good manners in the other; and with regard to the gentlemen, there was such an hearty good humour, such an open, trusting liberality on the Admiral’s side, as could not but influence Sir Walter, who had besides been flattered into his very best and most polished behaviour by Mr Shepherd’s assurances of his being known, by report, to the Admiral, as a model of good breeding.
双方的这次会面非常令人满意，一下子就决定了整个事情。两位女士之前都愿意达成协议，因此，除了对方的良好举止之外，什么也没看到。至于先生们，海军上将方面有着如此开朗的好脾气，如此开放、信任的慷慨，这不能不影响沃尔特爵士，除此之外，谢泼德先生的言行举止也使沃尔特爵士受宠若惊。通过向海军上将报告，保证他被视为良好教养的典范。

The house and grounds, and furniture, were approved, the Crofts were approved, terms, time, every thing, and every body, was right; and Mr Shepherd’s clerks were set to work, without there having been a single preliminary difference to modify of all that ‘This indenture sheweth.’
房子、场地、家具都得到了批准，克罗夫特一家也得到了批准，条款、时间、每件事、每个人都是正确的；谢泼德先生的职员们开始工作，没有对“这份契约所示”的所有内容进行任何初步的修改。

Sir Walter, without hesitation, declared the Admiral to be the best-looking sailor he had ever met with, and went so far as to say, that if his own man might have had the arranging of his hair, he should not be ashamed of being seen with him any where; and the Admiral, with sympathetic cordiality, observed to his wife as they drove back through the park, ‘I thought we should soon come to a deal, my dear, in spite of what they told us at Taunton. The Baronet will never set the Thames on fire, but there seems to be no harm in him.’ reciprocal compliments, which would have been esteemed about equal.
沃尔特爵士毫不犹豫地宣称，这位海军上将是他见过的最漂亮的水手，甚至还说，如果他自己的人能整理一下头发，他就不应该感到羞耻。任何地方都被人看见和他在一起；当他们开车穿过公园返回时，海军上将怀着同情和诚挚的心情对他的妻子说：“亲爱的，我认为我们很快就会达成协议，尽管他们在汤顿告诉了我们这些。从男爵永远不会放火烧泰晤士河，但他似乎没有什么坏处。”相互的恭维，这本来是平等的。

The Crofts were to have possession at Michaelmas; and as Sir Walter proposed removing to Bath in the course of the preceding month, there was no time to be lost in making every dependent arrangement.
克罗夫特家族将在米迦勒节拥有财产。由于沃尔特爵士提议在上个月搬到巴斯，因此不能浪费时间来做好每一项相关安排。

Lady Russell, convinced that Anne would not be allowed to be of any use, or any importance, in the choice of the house which they were going to secure, was very unwilling to have her hurried away so soon, and wanted to make it possible for her to stay behind till she might convey her to Bath herself after Christmas; but having engagements of her own which must take her from Kellynch for several weeks, she was unable to give the full invitation she wished, and Anne though dreading the possible heats of September in all the white glare of Bath, and grieving to forego all the influence so sweet and so sad of the autumnal months in the country, did not think that, everything considered, she wished to remain. It would be most right, and most wise, and, therefore must involve least suffering to go with the others.
拉塞尔夫人深信安妮在选择他们要购买的房子时不会有任何用处，也不会有任何重要性，她非常不愿意这么快让她匆忙离开，并希望让这一切成为可能让她留下来，直到圣诞节后她自己送她去巴斯；但她自己有事要忙，必须离开凯林奇几个星期，所以她无法发出她所希望的完整邀请，而安妮虽然害怕九月在巴斯的白色强光下可能出现的炎热天气，但又为放弃所有的一切而感到悲伤。乡村秋天的几个月如此甜蜜又如此悲伤，她没想到，综合考虑后，她愿意留下来。与其他人一起走是最正确、最明智的，因此必然会带来最少的痛苦。

Something occurred, however, to give her a different duty. Mary, often a little unwell, and always thinking a great deal of her own complaints, and always in the habit of claiming Anne when anything was the matter, was indisposed; and foreseeing that she should not have a day’s health all the autumn, entreated, or rather required her, for it was hardly entreaty, to come to Uppercross Cottage, and bear her company as long as she should want her, instead of going to Bath.
然而，发生了一些事情，赋予了她不同的职责。玛丽经常有点不舒服，总是想着自己的很多抱怨，而且总是习惯于有任何问题时找安妮，她身体不舒服。预见到她整个秋天都不会有一天的健康，恳求，或者更确切地说，要求她来厄普克罗斯小屋，只要她愿意，就可以陪伴她，而不是去巴斯。 。

‘I cannot possibly do without Anne,’ was Mary’s reasoning; and Elizabeth’s reply was, ‘Then I am sure Anne had better stay, for nobody will want her in Bath.’
“我不可能没有安妮，”玛丽的理由是。伊丽莎白的回答是：“那么我确信安妮最好留下来，因为没有人会想要她留在巴斯。”

To be claimed as a good, though in an improper style, is at least better than being rejected as no good at all; and Anne, glad to be thought of some use, glad to have anything marked out as a duty, and certainly not sorry to have the scene of it in the country, and her own dear country, readily agreed to stay.
被宣称为善，尽管以一种不恰当的方式，至少比被拒绝为一无是处要好。安妮很高兴被认为有一些用处，很高兴有任何事情被标记为职责，当然也不后悔在乡下和她自己亲爱的国家看到这样的场景，她欣然同意留下来。

This invitation of Mary’s removed all Lady Russell’s difficulties, and it was consequently soon settled that Anne should not go to Bath till Lady Russell took her, and that all the intervening time should be divided between Uppercross Cottage and Kellynch Lodge.
玛丽的这一邀请消除了拉塞尔夫人的所有困难，因此很快就决定，在拉塞尔夫人带她之前，安妮不应该去巴斯，并且所有中间时间都应该在阿珀克罗斯小屋和凯林奇小屋之间分配。

So far all was perfectly right; but Lady Russell was almost startled by the wrong of one part of the Kellynch Hall plan, when it burst on her, which was, Mrs Clay’s being engaged to go to Bath with Sir Walter and Elizabeth, as a most important and valuable assistant to the latter in all the business before her. Lady Russell was extremely sorry that such a measure should have been resorted to at all, wondered, grieved, and feared; and the affront it contained to Anne, in Mrs Clay’s being of so much use, while Anne could be of none, was a very sore aggravation.
到目前为止，一切都完全正确；但拉塞尔夫人几乎被凯林奇霍尔计划中的一个错误吓了一跳，当她突然意识到，那就是克莱夫人订婚与沃尔特爵士和伊丽莎白一起去巴斯，作为最重要和最有价值的助手后者在她面前的所有事务中都是后者。拉塞尔夫人对于采取这样的措施感到非常遗憾，她感到惊讶、悲伤和恐惧。克莱夫人如此有用，而安妮却毫无用处，这对安妮来说是一种极大的侮辱，这让她感到非常恼火。

Anne herself was become hardened to such affronts; but she felt the imprudence of the arrangement quite as keenly as Lady Russell. With a great deal of quiet observation, and a knowledge, which she often wished less, of her father’s character, she was sensible that results the most serious to his family from the intimacy were more than possible. She did not imagine that her father had at present an idea of the kind. Mrs Clay had freckles, and a projecting tooth, and a clumsy wrist, which he was continually making severe remarks upon, in her absence; but she was young, and certainly altogether well-looking, and possessed, in an acute mind and assiduous pleasing manners, infinitely more dangerous attractions than any merely personal might have been. Anne was so impressed by the degree of their danger, that she could not excuse herself from trying to make it perceptible to her sister. She had little hope of success; but Elizabeth, who in the event of such a reverse would be so much more to be pitied than herself, should never, she thought, have reason to reproach her for giving no warning.
安妮本人对这种侮辱变得冷酷无情。但她和拉塞尔夫人一样敏锐地感觉到这种安排的不谨慎。凭借大量的安静观察和对父亲性格的了解（她常常不希望如此），她很清楚，这种亲密关系很有可能给他的家人带来最严重的后果。她没想到她的父亲现在有这样的想法。克莱夫人长着雀斑，牙齿突出，手腕笨拙，在她不在的时候，他不断地严厉批评她。但她很年轻，而且相貌当然也很漂亮，而且有着敏锐的头脑和孜孜不倦的讨人喜欢的举止，比任何纯粹的个人魅力更危险。安妮对他们的危险程度印象深刻，她无法原谅自己试图让她的妹妹意识到这一点。她成功的希望渺茫；但是伊丽莎白，如果发生这样的逆转，她比她自己更值得怜悯，她认为，她永远没有理由责备她没有发出警告。

She spoke, and seemed only to offend. Elizabeth could not conceive how such an absurd suspicion should occur to her, and indignantly answered for each party’s perfectly knowing their situation.
她说话，似乎只是为了冒犯。伊丽莎白无法想象自己怎么会产生如此荒谬的怀疑，并愤慨地回答说，双方都清楚自己的处境。

‘Mrs Clay,’ said she, warmly, ‘never forgets who she is; and as I am rather better acquainted with her sentiments than you can be, I can assure you, that upon the subject of marriage they are particularly nice, and that she reprobates all inequality of condition and rank more strongly than most people. And as to my father, I really should not have thought that he, who has kept himself single so long for our sakes, need be suspected now. If Mrs Clay were a very beautiful woman, I grant you, it might be wrong to have her so much with me; not that anything in the world, I am sure, would induce my father to make a degrading match, but he might be rendered unhappy. But poor Mrs Clay who, with all her merits, can never have been reckoned tolerably pretty, I really think poor Mrs Clay may be staying here in perfect safety. One would imagine you had never heard my father speak of her personal misfortunes, though I know you must fifty times. That tooth of her’s and those freckles. Freckles do not disgust me so very much as they do him. I have known a face not materially disfigured by a few, but he abominates them. You must have heard him notice Mrs Clay’s freckles.’
“克莱夫人，”她热情地说，“永远不会忘记自己是谁；因为我比你更了解她的感情，所以我可以向你保证，在婚姻问题上他们特别友善，而且她比大多数人更强烈地谴责一切条件和等级的不平等。至于我的父亲，我真的不应该想到，他为了我们而单身这么久，现在却需要受到怀疑。我承认，如果克莱夫人是一位非常美丽的女人，那么让她这么多陪在我身边可能是错误的。我确信世界上没有任何事情会促使我父亲进行有辱人格的婚姻，但他可能会不高兴。但是可怜的克莱夫人，尽管她有很多优点，但永远不会被认为是相当漂亮的，我真的认为可怜的克莱夫人可能会非常安全地呆在这里。人们会想象你从未听过我父亲谈论过她个人的不幸，尽管我知道你一定听过五十次。她的那颗牙齿和那些雀斑。我不像他那样厌恶雀斑。我认识一张没有被少数人严重毁容的脸，但他憎恶他们。你一定听到他注意到克莱夫人的雀斑了。

‘There is hardly any personal defect,’ replied Anne, ‘which an agreeable manner might not gradually reconcile one to.’
“几乎没有什么个人缺陷，”安妮回答道，“只要一种令人愉快的方式，就可以逐渐使人接受。”

‘I think very differently,’ answered Elizabeth, shortly; ‘an agreeable manner may set off handsome features, but can never alter plain ones. However, at any rate, as I have a great deal more at stake on this point than anybody else can have, I think it rather unnecessary in you to be advising me.’
“我的想法非常不同，”伊丽莎白简短地回答道。 “和蔼可亲的举止可以衬托出俊美的容貌，但永远改变不了平庸的容貌。”然而，无论如何，由于在这一点上我比其他任何人都更重要，我认为你没有必要给我提供建议。

Anne had done; glad that it was over, and not absolutely hopeless of doing good. Elizabeth, though resenting the suspicion, might yet be made observant by it.
安妮已经做到了；很高兴一切都结束了，而且并不是绝对没有做好事的希望。伊丽莎白虽然对这种怀疑感到不满，但可能仍会因此而变得敏锐。

The last office of the four carriage-horses was to draw Sir Walter, Miss Elliot, and Mrs Clay to Bath. The party drove off in very good spirits; Sir Walter prepared with condescending bows for all the afflicted tenantry and cottagers who might have had a hint to show themselves, and Anne walked up at the same time, in a sort of desolate tranquillity, to the Lodge, where she was to spend the first week.
四匹马车的最后一个任务是把沃尔特爵士、埃利奥特小姐和克莱夫人拉到巴斯。一行人兴高采烈地出发了。沃尔特爵士准备向所有可能有暗示的受苦的佃户和佃农鞠躬，安妮同时带着一种荒凉的宁静走向小屋，她将在那里度过第一天。星期。

Her friend was not in better spirits than herself. Lady Russell felt this break-up of the family exceedingly. Their respectability was as dear to her as her own, and a daily intercourse had become precious by habit. It was painful to look upon their deserted grounds, and still worse to anticipate the new hands they were to fall into; and to escape the solitariness and the melancholy of so altered a village, and be out of the way when Admiral and Mrs Croft first arrived, she had determined to make her own absence from home begin when she must give up Anne. Accordingly their removal was made together, and Anne was set down at Uppercross Cottage, in the first stage of Lady Russell’s journey.
她朋友的心情并不比她好。拉塞尔夫人对家庭的破裂深感痛心。他们的尊重对她来说就像她自己的尊重一样，每天的交往已经习惯了变得珍贵。看着他们荒芜的土地令人痛苦，更糟糕的是预见到他们将落入新人手中。为了逃离如此改变的村庄的孤独和忧郁，并在海军上将和克罗夫特夫人第一次到达时避开，她决定在必须放弃安妮时开始自己离开家。因此，他们一起搬走了，安妮被安置在厄普克罗斯小屋，这是拉塞尔夫人旅程的第一阶段。

Uppercross was a moderate-sized village, which a few years back had been completely in the old English style, containing only two houses superior in appearance to those of the yeomen and labourers; the mansion of the squire, with its high walls, great gates, and old trees, substantial and unmodernized, and the compact, tight parsonage, enclosed in its own neat garden, with a vine and a pear-tree trained round its casements; but upon the marriage of the young ‘squire, it had received the improvement of a farm-house elevated into a cottage, for his residence, and Uppercross Cottage, with its veranda, French windows, and other prettiness, was quite as likely to catch the traveller’s eye as the more consistent and considerable aspect and premises of the Great House, about a quarter of a mile farther on.
厄珀克罗斯是一个中等规模的村庄，几年前还完全是老式英国风格，只有两栋外观比自耕农和劳工的房子要好一些的房子。乡绅的宅邸，有高墙、大门和古树，坚固但不现代化，还有紧凑而紧凑的牧师住宅，封闭在自己整洁的花园中，窗户周围种植着藤蔓和梨树；但在年轻的乡绅结婚后，它得到了改善，将一座农舍升级为一座小屋，作为他的住所，而厄普克罗斯小屋，有阳台、落地窗和其他漂亮的东西，很可能会吸引人们的注意。在旅行者的眼中，大房子的外观和建筑更加一致和显着，距离大约四分之一英里远。

Here Anne had often been staying. She knew the ways of Uppercross as well as those of Kellynch. The two families were so continually meeting, so much in the habit of running in and out of each other’s house at all hours, that it was rather a surprise to her to find Mary alone; but being alone, her being unwell and out of spirits was almost a matter of course. Though better endowed than the elder sister, Mary had not Anne’s understanding nor temper. While well, and happy, and properly attended to, she had great good humour and excellent spirits; but any indisposition sunk her completely. She had no resources for solitude; and inheriting a considerable share of the Elliot self-importance, was very prone to add to every other distress that of fancying herself neglected and ill-used. In person, she was inferior to both sisters, and had, even in her bloom, only reached the dignity of being ‘a fine girl.’ She was now lying on the faded sofa of the pretty little drawing-room, the once elegant furniture of which had been gradually growing shabby, under the influence of four summers and two children; and, on Anne’s appearing, greeted her with—
安妮经常住在这里。她了解厄普克罗斯的行事方式，也了解凯林奇的行事方式。两家人经常见面，而且习惯于随时进出对方的房子，所以当她发现玛丽独自一人时，她感到相当惊讶。但独自一人，她身体不适，精神不振，几乎是理所当然的事。玛丽虽然比姐姐更有天赋，但没有安妮的理解力和脾气。她身体健康，心情愉快，受到妥善照顾，但她的幽默感很强，精神也很好。但任何身体不适都让她彻底崩溃。她没有办法独处。她继承了埃利奥特的相当大的自负，很容易增加所有其他痛苦，即认为自己被忽视和虐待。就个人而言，她不如姐妹俩，即使在盛世时，也只达到了“淑女”的尊严。她现在躺在漂亮的小客厅里褪色的沙发上，曾经优雅的家具在四个夏天和两个孩子的影响下，它逐渐变得破旧。当安妮出现时，她用——

‘So, you are come at last! I began to think I should never see you. I am so ill I can hardly speak. I have not seen a creature the whole morning!’
‘这么说，你终于来了！我开始想我永远不应该见到你。我病得很重，几乎无法说话。我整个早上都没有看到任何生物！”

‘I am sorry to find you unwell,’ replied Anne. ‘You sent me such a good account of yourself on Thursday!’
“我很遗憾发现你身体不适，”安妮回答道。 “周四你给我发了一份非常好的自我介绍！”

‘Yes, I made the best of it; I always do: but I was very far from well at the time; and I do not think I ever was so ill in my life as I have been all this morning: very unfit to be left alone, I am sure. Suppose I were to be seized of a sudden in some dreadful way, and not able to ring the bell! So, Lady Russell would not get out. I do not think she has been in this house three times this summer.’
“是的，我充分利用了它；我总是这样做：但当时我的情况还很糟糕；我想我一生中从来没有像今天早上这样病过：我确信我非常不适合一个人呆着。假设我突然被某种可怕的方式抓住，而无法按铃！所以，拉塞尔夫人不会出去。我想今年夏天她已经来过这所房子三次了。”

Anne said what was proper, and enquired after her husband. ‘Oh! Charles is out shooting. I have not seen him since seven o’clock. He would go, though I told him how ill I was. He said he should not stay out long; but he has never come back, and now it is almost one. I assure you, I have not seen a soul this whole long morning.’
安妮说得对，并询问她丈夫的情况。 '哦！查尔斯出去打猎了。从七点起我就没见过他。尽管我告诉他我病得有多严重，他还是会去。他说他不应该在外面呆太久。但他却再也没有回来过，现在也快回来了。我向你保证，整个早上我都没有看到一个人。”

‘You have had your little boys with you?’
“你带着你的小男孩了吗？”

‘Yes, as long as I could bear their noise; but they are so unmanageable that they do me more harm than good. Little Charles does not mind a word I say, and Walter is growing quite as bad.’
“是的，只要我能忍受他们的噪音；但它们太难以控制，对我来说弊大于利。小查尔斯不介意我说的每一句话，而沃尔特的情况也同样糟糕。

‘Well, you will soon be better now,’ replied Anne, cheerfully. ‘You know I always cure you when I come. How are your neighbours at the Great House?’
“好吧，你很快就会好起来的，”安妮高兴地回答道。 ‘你知道我来的时候总是能治愈你。你在大宅里的邻居怎么样？

‘I can give you no account of them. I have not seen one of them to-day, except Mr Musgrove, who just stopped and spoke through the window, but without getting off his horse; and though I told him how ill I was, not one of them have been near me. It did not happen to suit the Miss Musgroves, I suppose, and they never put themselves out of their way.’
“我无法向你透露他们的情况。今天我没有看到他们中的任何一个，除了穆斯格罗夫先生，他只是停下来，透过窗户说话，但没有下马；尽管我告诉他我病得有多严重，但他们中没有一个人靠近过我。我想，这不适合穆斯格罗夫小姐，而且她们也从不为自己的事烦恼。

‘You will see them yet, perhaps, before the morning is gone. It is early.’
“也许，在早晨过去之前，你还会看到它们。”现在还早。'

‘I never want them, I assure you. They talk and laugh a great deal too much for me. Oh! Anne, I am so very unwell! It was quite unkind of you not to come on Thursday.’
“我向你保证，我从不想要它们。他们说笑太多，对我来说太多了。哦！安妮，我身体非常不好！你周四不来真是太不友善了。”

‘My dear Mary, recollect what a comfortable account you sent me of yourself! You wrote in the cheerfullest manner, and said you were perfectly well, and in no hurry for me; and that being the case, you must be aware that my wish would be to remain with Lady Russell to the last: and besides what I felt on her account, I have really been so busy, have had so much to do, that I could not very conveniently have left Kellynch sooner.’
“我亲爱的玛丽，还记得你给我寄来的关于你自己的描述是多么令人舒服啊！你以最愉快的方式写信，说你很好，并不着急来找我。既然如此，你一定知道我的愿望是和拉塞尔夫人在一起直到最后：除了我对她的感受之外，我真的很忙，有很多事情要做，所以我可以不太方便早点离开凯林奇。

‘Dear me! what can you possibly have to do?’
'亲爱的我！你可能需要做什么？

‘A great many things, I assure you. More than I can recollect in a moment; but I can tell you some. I have been making a duplicate of the catalogue of my father’s books and pictures. I have been several times in the garden with Mackenzie, trying to understand, and make him understand, which of Elizabeth’s plants are for Lady Russell. I have had all my own little concerns to arrange, books and music to divide, and all my trunks to repack, from not having understood in time what was intended as to the waggons: and one thing I have had to do, Mary, of a more trying nature: going to almost every house in the parish, as a sort of take-leave. I was told that they wished it. But all these things took up a great deal of time.’
“我向你保证，有很多事情。多得我一时想不起来；但我可以告诉你一些。我一直在复制我父亲的书籍和图片目录。我和麦肯齐去过花园好几次，试图了解并让他了解伊丽莎白的哪些植物是为拉塞尔夫人准备的。我有自己所有的小事需要安排，书籍和音乐需要分开，所有的行李箱需要重新包装，因为我没有及时理解马车的用途：还有一件事我必须做，玛丽，更难受的是：几乎走访教区的每一户人家，作为一种休假。有人告诉我他们希望如此。但所有这些事情占用了很多时间。”

‘Oh! well!’ and after a moment’s pause, ‘but you have never asked me one word about our dinner at the Pooles yesterday.’
'哦！好吧！”停顿了一会儿，“但是你从来没有问过我昨天在普尔斯家吃饭的事。”

‘Did you go then? I have made no enquiries, because I concluded you must have been obliged to give up the party.’
‘那你去了吗？我没有询问，因为我的结论是你必须放弃聚会。

‘Oh yes! I went. I was very well yesterday; nothing at all the matter with me till this morning. It would have been strange if I had not gone.’
'哦是的！我去了。昨天我很好；直到今天早上我都没有任何问题。如果我没有去那就奇怪了。

‘I am very glad you were well enough, and I hope you had a pleasant party.’
“我很高兴你一切都好，我希望你有一个愉快的聚会。”

‘Nothing remarkable. One always knows beforehand what the dinner will be, and who will be there; and it is so very uncomfortable not having a carriage of one’s own. Mr and Mrs Musgrove took me, and we were so crowded! They are both so very large, and take up so much room; and Mr Musgrove always sits forward. So, there was I, crowded into the back seat with Henrietta and Louise; and I think it very likely that my illness to-day may be owing to it.’
‘没什么了不起的。人们总是事先知道晚餐会是什么，以及谁会在那里；没有自己的马车真是太不舒服了。穆斯格罗夫先生和夫人带着我，我们太拥挤了！它们都非常大，占据了很大的空间；穆斯格罗夫先生总是坐在前面。于是，我和亨利埃塔、路易丝一起挤在后座上。我想我今天的病很可能就是这个原因造成的。”

A little further perseverance in patience and forced cheerfulness on Anne’s side produced nearly a cure on Mary’s. She could soon sit upright on the sofa, and began to hope she might be able to leave it by dinner-time. Then, forgetting to think of it, she was at the other end of the room, beautifying a nosegay; then, she ate her cold meat; and then she was well enough to propose a little walk.
安妮方面再坚持一点耐心和强迫性的快乐，玛丽的病就几乎痊愈了。她很快就能在沙发上坐直了，并开始希望自己能在晚餐时间离开沙发。然后，她忘记了去想这件事，在房间的另一端美化花束。然后，她吃了冷肉；后来她身体好了，提议出去走走。

‘Where shall we go?’ said she, when they were ready. ‘I suppose you will not like to call at the Great House before they have been to see you?’
“我们去哪儿？”当他们准备好后，她说道。 “我想在他们来见你之前，你不会愿意去大宅拜访吧？”

‘I have not the smallest objection on that account,’ replied Anne. ‘I should never think of standing on such ceremony with people I know so well as Mrs and the Miss Musgroves.’
“对此我没有丝毫反对意见，”安妮回答道。 “我永远不应该想到与穆斯格罗夫夫人和小姐等我熟悉的人一起参加这样的仪式。”

‘Oh! but they ought to call upon you as soon as possible. They ought to feel what is due to you as my sister. However, we may as well go and sit with them a little while, and when we have that over, we can enjoy our walk.’
'哦！但他们应该尽快拜访你。他们应该感受到你作为我妹妹应得的。不过，我们不妨去和他们一起坐一会儿，等结束后，我们就可以享受散步了。

Anne had always thought such a style of intercourse highly imprudent; but she had ceased to endeavour to check it, from believing that, though there were on each side continual subjects of offence, neither family could now do without it. To the Great House accordingly they went, to sit the full half hour in the old-fashioned square parlour, with a small carpet and shining floor, to which the present daughters of the house were gradually giving the proper air of confusion by a grand piano-forte and a harp, flower-stands and little tables placed in every direction. Oh! could the originals of the portraits against the wainscot, could the gentlemen in brown velvet and the ladies in blue satin have seen what was going on, have been conscious of such an overthrow of all order and neatness! The portraits themselves seemed to be staring in astonishment.
安妮一直认为这种交往方式非常不谨慎。但她不再努力去制止它，因为她相信，虽然双方不断有冒犯的对象，但现在两个家庭都离不开它。因此，他们去了大宅，在老式的方形客厅里坐了整整半个小时，客厅里铺着小地毯，地板闪闪发亮，现在的女儿们在一架大钢琴旁逐渐表现出了应有的混乱气氛。 -强音和竖琴，花架和小桌子放置在各个方向。哦！壁板上肖像的原件，穿着棕色天鹅绒的绅士和穿着蓝色缎子的女士们是否可以看到正在发生的事情，是否意识到这种对所有秩序和整洁的破坏！这些肖像本身似乎都在惊讶地凝视着。

The Musgroves, like their houses, were in a state of alteration, perhaps of improvement. The father and mother were in the old English style, and the young people in the new. Mr and Mrs Musgrove were a very good sort of people; friendly and hospitable, not much educated, and not at all elegant. Their children had more modern minds and manners. There was a numerous family; but the only two grown up, excepting Charles, were Henrietta and Louisa, young ladies of nineteen and twenty, who had brought from school at Exeter all the usual stock of accomplishments, and were now like thousands of other young ladies, living to be fashionable, happy, and merry. Their dress had every advantage, their faces were rather pretty, their spirits extremely good, their manner unembarrassed and pleasant; they were of consequence at home, and favourites abroad. Anne always contemplated them as some of the happiest creatures of her acquaintance; but still, saved as we all are, by some comfortable feeling of superiority from wishing for the possibility of exchange, she would not have given up her own more elegant and cultivated mind for all their enjoyments; and envied them nothing but that seemingly perfect good understanding and agreement together, that good-humoured mutual affection, of which she had known so little herself with either of her sisters.
穆斯格罗夫一家，就像他们的房子一样，正处于改变的状态，也许正在改善。父亲和母亲穿着老式的英国风格，而年轻人则穿着新式的风格。默斯格罗夫夫妇是非常好的人。友善好客，没有受过多少教育，而且一点也不优雅。他们的孩子有更现代的思想和举止。那里有很多家庭；但除了查尔斯之外，仅有的两个成年人是亨利埃塔和路易莎，她们分别是十九岁和二十岁的年轻女士，她们从埃克塞特的学校获得了所有通常的成就，现在像成千上万的其他年轻女士一样，过着时尚的生活。 ，快乐，快乐。她们的衣着各有优点，面容相当俊美，精神极好，举止不拘一格，令人愉快；他们在国内举足轻重，在国外也很受欢迎。安妮总是认为他们是她所认识的人中最幸福的人。但是，尽管如此，我们大家都得救了，由于希望有交换的可能性而产生了某种舒适的优越感，她不会为了他们的所有享受而放弃自己更加优雅和有教养的心灵；她最羡慕的就是她们之间看似完美的默契和默契，以及她们之间那种幽默的相互感情，而她自己对她的姐妹们却知之甚少。

They were received with great cordiality. Nothing seemed amiss on the side of the Great House family, which was generally, as Anne very well knew, the least to blame. The half hour was chatted away pleasantly enough; and she was not at all surprised at the end of it, to have their walking party joined by both the Miss Musgroves, at Mary’s particular invitation.
他们受到了非常热情的接待。大宅家族方面似乎并没有什么问题，正如安妮非常清楚的那样，大家族通常是最不应该受到指责的。半个小时就这样愉快地聊完了。最后，在玛丽的特别邀请下，莫斯格罗夫小姐也加入了他们的步行聚会，她对此一点也不感到惊讶。

Chapter 6
第6章

Anne had not wanted this visit to Uppercross, to learn that a removal from one set of people to another, though at a distance of only three miles, will often include a total change of conversation, opinion, and idea. She had never been staying there before, without being struck by it, or without wishing that other Elliots could have her advantage in seeing how unknown, or unconsidered there, were the affairs which at Kellynch Hall were treated as of such general publicity and pervading interest; yet, with all this experience, she believed she must now submit to feel that another lesson, in the art of knowing our own nothingness beyond our own circle, was become necessary for her; for certainly, coming as she did, with a heart full of the subject which had been completely occupying both houses in Kellynch for many weeks, she had expected rather more curiosity and sympathy than she found in the separate but very similar remark of Mr and Mrs Musgrove: ‘So, Miss Anne, Sir Walter and your sister are gone; and what part of Bath do you think they will settle in?’ and this, without much waiting for an answer; or in the young ladies’ addition of, ‘I hope we shall be in Bath in the winter; but remember, papa, if we do go, we must be in a good situation: none of your Queen Squares for us!’ or in the anxious supplement from Mary, of— ‘Upon my word, I shall be pretty well off, when you are all gone away to be happy at Bath!’
安妮不想通过这次访问厄普克罗斯了解到，从一组人转移到另一组人，尽管距离只有三英里，但通常会导致谈话、观点和想法的彻底改变。她以前从来没有住过那里，没有被它震撼过，或者没有希望其他埃利奥特能够有她的优势，看到那里的事情是多么不为人知或未被考虑，而在凯林奇大厅被视为如此普遍的公众关注和广泛的兴趣;然而，有了这些经历，她相信她现在必须接受另一堂课，关于了解我们自己的圈子之外的虚无的艺术，对她来说是必要的。当然，当她来到这里时，她心里充满了这个话题，这个话题已经完全占据了凯林奇的两栋房子好几个星期了，她期待着比她在先生和夫人分别但非常相似的言论中发现更多的好奇和同情。默斯格罗夫：“所以，安妮小姐、沃尔特爵士和你的妹妹都走了；你认为他们会定居在巴斯的哪个地方？或者年轻女士们补充道：“我希望冬天我们能去巴斯；”但请记住，爸爸，如果我们真的要去，我们的处境一定很好：你们的皇后广场都不适合我们！”或者在玛丽焦急的补充中，“据我保证，当我你们都去巴斯快乐了！”

She could only resolve to avoid such self-delusion in future, and think with heightened gratitude of the extraordinary blessing of having one such truly sympathising friend as Lady Russell.
她只能下定决心，今后要避免这样的自欺欺人，并怀着高度的感激之情思考拥有一位像拉塞尔夫人这样真正富有同情心的朋友所带来的非凡幸福。

The Mr Musgroves had their own game to guard, and to destroy, their own horses, dogs, and newspapers to engage them, and the females were fully occupied in all the other common subjects of housekeeping, neighbours, dress, dancing, and music. She acknowledged it to be very fitting, that every little social commonwealth should dictate its own matters of discourse; and hoped, ere long, to become a not unworthy member of the one she was now transplanted into. With the prospect of spending at least two months at Uppercross, it was highly incumbent on her to clothe her imagination, her memory, and all her ideas in as much of Uppercross as possible.
穆斯格罗夫先生有自己的游戏来保护和摧毁自己的马、狗和报纸来吸引她们，而女性则完全专注于所有其他常见的主题，如家务、邻居、服装、舞蹈和音乐。她承认，每个小社会共同体都应该决定自己的话语权，这是非常恰当的。并希望不久之后能够成为她现在移植到的那个地方的一员。由于预计要在厄珀克罗斯度过至少两个月，她有责任尽可能多地在厄珀克罗斯体现自己的想象力、记忆和所有想法。

She had no dread of these two months. Mary was not so repulsive and unsisterly as Elizabeth, nor so inaccessible to all influence of hers; neither was there anything among the other component parts of the cottage inimical to comfort. She was always on friendly terms with her brother-in-law; and in the children, who loved her nearly as well, and respected her a great deal more than their mother, she had an object of interest, amusement, and wholesome exertion.
这两个月，她并不害怕。玛丽不像伊丽莎白那么令人厌恶和不友好，也不像伊丽莎白那么难以接近她的影响力。小屋的其他组成部分也没有任何不利于舒适的地方。她和她姐夫的关系总是很友好。孩子们也几乎同样爱她，并且比他们的母亲更尊重她，她成为了一个感兴趣、娱乐和健康努力的对象。

Charles Musgrove was civil and agreeable; in sense and temper he was undoubtedly superior to his wife, but not of powers, or conversation, or grace, to make the past, as they were connected together, at all a dangerous contemplation; though, at the same time, Anne could believe, with Lady Russell, that a more equal match might have greatly improved him; and that a woman of real understanding might have given more consequence to his character, and more usefulness, rationality, and elegance to his habits and pursuits. As it was, he did nothing with much zeal, but sport; and his time was otherwise trifled away, without benefit from books or anything else. He had very good spirits, which never seemed much affected by his wife’s occasional lowness, bore with her unreasonableness sometimes to Anne’s admiration, and upon the whole, though there was very often a little disagreement (in which she had sometimes more share than she wished, being appealed to by both parties), they might pass for a happy couple. They were always perfectly agreed in the want of more money, and a strong inclination for a handsome present from his father; but here, as on most topics, he had the superiority, for while Mary thought it a great shame that such a present was not made, he always contended for his father’s having many other uses for his money, and a right to spend it as he liked.
查尔斯·穆斯格罗夫为人彬彬有礼，和蔼可亲。在理智和性情上，他无疑比他的妻子优越，但在能力、谈吐或优雅方面，他并不比他的妻子优越，因为过去的事情联系在一起，所以他的沉思根本不是危险的。不过，与此同时，安妮相信，与拉塞尔夫人相比，更平等的匹配可能会大大提高他的水平。一个真正理解的女人可能会更看重他的性格，更看重他的习惯和追求的有用性、理性和优雅。事实上，除了运动之外，他并没有热心地做任何事。他的时间就这样被浪费掉了，没有从书籍或其他任何东西上得到任何好处。他的精神很好，似乎从来没有受到妻子偶尔的低落的影响，有时容忍她的无理取闹，令安妮钦佩，总的来说，尽管经常有一些分歧（其中她有时比她希望的更多） ，受到双方的吸引），他们可能会被认为是一对幸福的情侣。他们总是完全一致地想要更多的钱，并且强烈希望从父亲那里得到一份漂亮的礼物。但在这一点上，就像在大多数话题上一样，他有优势，因为虽然玛丽认为没有制作这样的礼物是一种极大的耻辱，但他总是主张父亲的钱有许多其他用途，并且有权像父亲一样花掉它。他喜欢过。

As to the management of their children, his theory was much better than his wife’s, and his practice not so bad. ‘I could manage them very well, if it were not for Mary’s interference,’ was what Anne often heard him say, and had a good deal of faith in; but when listening in turn to Mary’s reproach of ‘Charles spoils the children so that I cannot get them into any order,’ she never had the smallest temptation to say, ‘Very true.’
对于孩子的管理，他的理论比他妻子的要好得多，而且他的实践也不差。 “如果不是玛丽的干涉，我可以很好地管理他们。”这是安妮经常听到他说的话，对此她深信不疑。但当玛丽反过来责备“查尔斯把孩子们宠坏了，所以我无法让他们遵守任何秩序”时，她从来没有想过说“非常正确”。

One of the least agreeable circumstances of her residence there was her being treated with too much confidence by all parties, and being too much in the secret of the complaints of each house. Known to have some influence with her sister, she was continually requested, or at least receiving hints to exert it, beyond what was practicable. ‘I wish you could persuade Mary not to be always fancying herself ill,’ was Charles’s language; and, in an unhappy mood, thus spoke Mary: ‘I do believe if Charles were to see me dying, he would not think there was anything the matter with me. I am sure, Anne, if you would, you might persuade him that I really am very ill—a great deal worse than I ever own.’
她住在那里的最不愉快的情况之一就是各方对她过于信任，并且对每所房子的抱怨都秘而不宣。众所周知，她对她的妹妹有一定的影响力，因此不断有人要求她，或者至少收到暗示，以超出实际的范围发挥她的影响力。 “我希望你能说服玛丽不要总是幻想自己生病了。”查尔斯这样说道。玛丽心情不快地说道：“我相信，如果查尔斯看到我死去，他不会认为我有什么问题。”我相信，安妮，如果你愿意的话，你可以让他相信我真的病得很重——比我自己想象的还要严重。

Mary’s declaration was, ‘I hate sending the children to the Great House, though their grandmamma is always wanting to see them, for she humours and indulges them to such a degree, and gives them so much trash and sweet things, that they are sure to come back sick and cross for the rest of the day.’ And Mrs Musgrove took the first opportunity of being alone with Anne, to say, ‘Oh! Miss Anne, I cannot help wishing Mrs Charles had a little of your method with those children. They are quite different creatures with you! But to be sure, in general they are so spoilt! It is a pity you cannot put your sister in the way of managing them. They are as fine healthy children as ever were seen, poor little dears! without partiality; but Mrs Charles knows no more how they should be treated—! Bless me! how troublesome they are sometimes. I assure you, Miss Anne, it prevents my wishing to see them at our house so often as I otherwise should. I believe Mrs Charles is not quite pleased with my not inviting them oftener; but you know it is very bad to have children with one that one is obligated to be checking every moment; ‘don’t do this,’ and ‘don’t do that;’ or that one can only keep in tolerable order by more cake than is good for them.’
玛丽的声明是，“我讨厌送孩子们去大房子，尽管他们的奶奶总是想见到他们，因为她对他们的幽默和纵容程度如此之高，并给了他们如此多的垃圾和甜食，以至于他们确信穆斯格罗夫夫人抓住了第一次和安妮单独相处的机会，说道：“哦！安妮小姐，我不禁希望查尔斯夫人能用一点你的方法来对待那些孩子。他们和你是完全不同的生物！但可以肯定的是，总的来说，他们都被宠坏了！可惜你不能让你的妹妹来管理他们。他们是一如既往的健康的好孩子，可怜的小宝贝！不偏不倚；但查尔斯夫人已经不知道应该如何对待他们了——！保佑我（宗教！他们有时是多么的麻烦啊。我向你保证，安妮小姐，这让我不想经常在我们家见到他们，否则我应该这样做。我相信查尔斯夫人对我不经常邀请他们不太满意；但你知道，和一个必须每时每刻都检查的孩子在一起是非常糟糕的； “不要这样做”和“不要那样做”；或者人们只能通过吃比对他们有益的蛋糕来保持可忍受的秩序。

She had this communication, moreover, from Mary. ‘Mrs Musgrove thinks all her servants so steady, that it would be high treason to call it in question; but I am sure, without exaggeration, that her upper house-maid and laundry-maid, instead of being in their business, are gadding about the village, all day long. I meet them wherever I go; and I declare, I never go twice into my nursery without seeing something of them. If Jemima were not the trustiest, steadiest creature in the world, it would be enough to spoil her; for she tells me, they are always tempting her to take a walk with them.’ And on Mrs Musgrove’s side, it was, ‘I make a rule of never interfering in any of my daughter-in-law’s concerns, for I know it would not do; but I shall tell you, Miss Anne, because you may be able to set things to rights, that I have no very good opinion of Mrs Charles’s nursery-maid: I hear strange stories of her; she is always upon the gad; and from my own knowledge, I can declare, she is such a fine-dressing lady, that she is enough to ruin any servants she comes near. Mrs Charles quite swears by her, I know; but I just give you this hint, that you may be upon the watch; because, if you see anything amiss, you need not be afraid of mentioning it.’
此外，她还从玛丽那里得到了这种交流。 “穆斯格罗夫夫人认为她所有的仆人都那么稳定，如果对此提出质疑，那就是叛国罪；但我毫不夸张地确信，她的上层女仆和洗衣女仆不是在忙自己的事，而是整天在村子里闲逛。无论我走到哪里，我都会遇到他们；我声明，我从来没有两次走进我的托儿所而没有看到他们的一些东西。如果杰米玛不是世界上最值得信赖、最稳定的人，那么宠坏她就足够了；因为她告诉我，他们总是诱惑她和他们一起散步。”而穆斯格罗夫夫人这边，则是，“我制定了一条规则，决不干涉我儿媳妇的任何担忧，因为我知道这一点不会做；但我要告诉你，安妮小姐，因为你也许能​​够纠正事情，我对查尔斯夫人的保姆没有很好的看法：我听到了关于她的奇怪故事；她总是忙忙碌碌；据我所知，我可以断言，她是一位衣着考究的女士，足以毁掉她走近的任何仆人。我知道，查尔斯夫人对她非常信赖。但我只是给你这个提示，让你保持警惕；因为，如果你发现任何不对劲的地方，你不必害怕提及。

Again, it was Mary’s complaint, that Mrs Musgrove was very apt not to give her the precedence that was her due, when they dined at the Great House with other families; and she did not see any reason why she was to be considered so much at home as to lose her place. And one day when Anne was walking with only the Musgroves, one of them after talking of rank, people of rank, and jealousy of rank, said, ‘I have no scruple of observing to you, how nonsensical some persons are about their place, because all the world knows how easy and indifferent you are about it; but I wish anybody could give Mary a hint that it would be a great deal better if she were not so very tenacious, especially if she would not be always putting herself forward to take place of mamma. Nobody doubts her right to have precedence of mamma, but it would be more becoming in her not to be always insisting on it. It is not that mamma cares about it the least in the world, but I know it is taken notice of by many persons.’
玛丽再次抱怨说，当他们和其他家庭在大宅子里吃饭时，默斯格罗夫夫人很容易不给她应有的优先权。她不明白为什么她会被认为如此自在，以至于失去她的地位。有一天，当安妮只和穆斯格罗夫一家一起散步时，其中一位在谈论了阶级、有阶级的人以及对阶级的嫉妒之后，说道：“我毫无顾忌地向你观察，有些人对自己的地位是多么荒谬，因为全世界都知道你对此是多么的轻松和淡然；但我希望任何人都能给玛丽一个暗示，如果她不那么顽强，特别是如果她不总是主动取代妈妈的话，情况会好得多。没有人怀疑她拥有比妈妈优先的权利，但她不总是坚持这一点会更合适。这并不是说妈妈在世界上最不关心它，但我知道它受到很多人的关注。

How was Anne to set all these matters to rights? She could do little more than listen patiently, soften every grievance, and excuse each to the other; give them all hints of the forbearance necessary between such near neighbours, and make those hints broadest which were meant for her sister’s benefit.
安妮该如何解决所有这些问题呢？她只能耐心地倾听，缓和每一个不满，并互相原谅。向他们暗示如此近邻之间必要的宽容，并尽可能广泛地暗示这些暗示是为了她妹妹的利益。

In all other respects, her visit began and proceeded very well. Her own spirits improved by change of place and subject, by being removed three miles from Kellynch; Mary’s ailments lessened by having a constant companion, and their daily intercourse with the other family, since there was neither superior affection, confidence, nor employment in the cottage, to be interrupted by it, was rather an advantage. It was certainly carried nearly as far as possible, for they met every morning, and hardly ever spent an evening asunder; but she believed they should not have done so well without the sight of Mr and Mrs Musgrove’s respectable forms in the usual places, or without the talking, laughing, and singing of their daughters.
在所有其他方面，她的访问开始并进行得非常顺利。由于地点和主题的改变，她被搬到距凯林奇三英里的地方，她自己的精神也有所改善。玛丽的病因为有一个固定的伴侣而减轻了，而且他们每天与另一个家庭的交往，因为小屋里既没有优越的感情、信心，也没有工作，被它打断，倒是一个优势。当然，这几乎是尽可能地进行的，因为他们每天早上都会见面，晚上几乎不会分开。但她相信，如果没有在平常的地方看到穆斯格罗夫夫妇的体面形象，或者没有女儿们的谈笑和歌声，他们就不会做得这么好。

She played a great deal better than either of the Miss Musgroves, but having no voice, no knowledge of the harp, and no fond parents, to sit by and fancy themselves delighted, her performance was little thought of, only out of civility, or to refresh the others, as she was well aware. She knew that when she played she was giving pleasure only to herself; but this was no new sensation. Excepting one short period of her life, she had never, since the age of fourteen, never since the loss of her dear mother, known the happiness of being listened to, or encouraged by any just appreciation or real taste. In music she had been always used to feel alone in the world; and Mr and Mrs Musgrove’s fond partiality for their own daughters’ performance, and total indifference to any other person’s, gave her much more pleasure for their sakes, than mortification for her own.
她的演奏比穆斯格罗夫小姐中的任何一个都好得多，但她没有声音，不懂竖琴，也没有慈爱的父母坐在一旁自以为高兴，她的演奏很少被人想到，只是出于礼貌，或者她很清楚，这是为了让其他人恢复精神。她知道，当她玩耍时，她只是给自己带来快乐；她只是在给自己带来快乐。但这并不是什么新鲜事。除了她生命中的一小段时间之外，自从十四岁起，自从失去亲爱的母亲以来，她从来没有体会过被倾听、被任何公正的欣赏或真正的品味所鼓励的幸福。在音乐方面，她总是习惯于在世界上感到孤独。默斯格罗夫先生和夫人对自己女儿的表现十分偏爱，而对其他人的表现则完全漠不关心，这让她为他们感到高兴，而不是为自己的女儿感到羞辱。

The party at the Great House was sometimes increased by other company. The neighbourhood was not large, but the Musgroves were visited by everybody, and had more dinner-parties, and more callers, more visitors by invitation and by chance, than any other family. There were more completely popular.
有时，大宅里的聚会也会因其他公司而增加。街区并不大，但穆斯格罗夫一家人人都来拜访，他们举办的晚宴、来访者、受邀请和偶然来访的人比任何其他家庭都多。还有更完全流行的。

The girls were wild for dancing; and the evenings ended, occasionally, in an unpremeditated little ball. There was a family of cousins within a walk of Uppercross, in less affluent circumstances, who depended on the Musgroves for all their pleasures: they would come at any time, and help play at anything, or dance anywhere; and Anne, very much preferring the office of musician to a more active post, played country dances to them by the hour together; a kindness which always recommended her musical powers to the notice of Mr and Mrs Musgrove more than anything else, and often drew this compliment;— ‘Well done, Miss Anne! very well done indeed! Lord bless me! how those little fingers of yours fly about!’
女孩们热衷于跳舞。夜晚有时会以一场毫无预谋的小舞会结束。在厄珀克罗斯的步行范围内有一个堂兄弟家庭，生活条件不太富裕，他们的所有乐趣都依赖穆斯格罗夫一家：他们随时来，帮忙玩任何东西，或者在任何地方跳舞；他们会在任何地方帮忙。安妮更喜欢音乐家的职位，而不是更活跃的职位，她一起按小时为他们表演乡村舞蹈。这种善意总是让默斯格罗夫先生和夫人注意到她的音乐才能，并经常得到这样的称赞；——‘干得好，安妮小姐！确实做得很好！愿主保佑我！你的小手指怎么飞来飞去啊！

So passed the first three weeks. Michaelmas came; and now Anne’s heart must be in Kellynch again. A beloved home made over to others; all the precious rooms and furniture, groves, and prospects, beginning to own other eyes and other limbs! She could not think of much else on the 29th of September; and she had this sympathetic touch in the evening from Mary, who, on having occasion to note down the day of the month, exclaimed, ‘Dear me, is not this the day the Crofts were to come to Kellynch? I am glad I did not think of it before. How low it makes me!’
前三周就这样过去了。米迦勒节来了；现在安妮的心一定又回到了凯林奇。一个心爱的家让给了别人；所有珍贵的房间和家具、树林和前景，开始拥有其他的眼睛和其他的四肢！ 9 月 29 日，她无法想太多其他事情。晚上，她从玛丽那里得到了这种同情，玛丽有机会记下这个月的日子，惊呼道：“天哪，今天不是克罗夫特一家要来凯林奇的日子吗？”我很高兴我之前没有想到这一点。这让我多么卑微啊！

The Crofts took possession with true naval alertness, and were to be visited. Mary deplored the necessity for herself. ‘Nobody knew how much she should suffer. She should put it off as long as she could;’ but was not easy till she had talked Charles into driving her over on an early day, and was in a very animated, comfortable state of imaginary agitation, when she came back. Anne had very sincerely rejoiced in there being no means of her going. She wished, however to see the Crofts, and was glad to be within when the visit was returned. They came: the master of the house was not at home, but the two sisters were together; and as it chanced that Mrs Croft fell to the share of Anne, while the Admiral sat by Mary, and made himself very agreeable by his good-humoured notice of her little boys, she was well able to watch for a likeness, and if it failed her in the features, to catch it in the voice, or in the turn of sentiment and expression.
克罗夫特一家以真正的海军警觉占领了这里，并受到了拜访。玛丽对自己的这种必要性感到遗憾。 “没有人知道她应该承受多少痛苦。她应该尽可能地推迟；”但这并不容易，直到她说服查尔斯一大早就开车送她过去，当她回来时，她处于一种非常活跃、舒适的想象中的激动状态。安妮因无法前往而由衷地感到庆幸。然而，她希望能见到克罗夫特一家，并且很高兴当克罗夫特一家回来时她还在家里。他们来了：主人不在家，两姐妹却在一起；碰巧，克罗夫特夫人与安妮同居，而海军上将坐在玛丽身边，对她的小男孩们表现出幽默的态度，她很容易发现一个相似之处，如果它是她无法从容貌、声音、情感和表情的转变中捕捉到这一点。

Mrs Croft, though neither tall nor fat, had a squareness, uprightness, and vigour of form, which gave importance to her person. She had bright dark eyes, good teeth, and altogether an agreeable face; though her reddened and weather-beaten complexion, the consequence of her having been almost as much at sea as her husband, made her seem to have lived some years longer in the world than her real eight-and-thirty. Her manners were open, easy, and decided, like one who had no distrust of herself, and no doubts of what to do; without any approach to coarseness, however, or any want of good humour. Anne gave her credit, indeed, for feelings of great consideration towards herself, in all that related to Kellynch, and it pleased her: especially, as she had satisfied herself in the very first half minute, in the instant even of introduction, that there was not the smallest symptom of any knowledge or suspicion on Mrs Croft’s side, to give a bias of any sort. She was quite easy on that head, and consequently full of strength and courage, till for a moment electrified by Mrs Croft’s suddenly saying,—
克罗夫特夫人虽然不高也不胖，但身材方正、端正、充满活力，这使她的身材显得很重要。她有一双明亮的黑眼睛，一口整齐的牙齿，还有一张令人愉快的脸。尽管她的脸色泛红，饱经风霜，因为她几乎和她丈夫一样经常出海，所以她看起来比实际的八岁和三十岁多活了几年。她的举止坦率、从容、果断，就像一个对自己毫不怀疑、对自己该做什么毫不犹豫的人。然而，没有任何粗俗的态度，也没有任何幽默感。事实上，安妮在所有与凯林奇有关的事情上都对自己非常关心，这让她很高兴：特别是，因为她在前半分钟，甚至在介绍的那一刻就满足了自己，这并不是克罗夫特夫人一方有任何了解或怀疑的最小迹象，不会产生任何形式的偏见。她在这方面很从容，因此充满了力量和勇气，直到克罗夫特夫人突然说：

‘It was you, and not your sister, I find, that my brother had the pleasure of being acquainted with, when he was in this country.’
“我发现，我哥哥在这个国家时有幸认识的是你，而不是你的妹妹。”

Anne hoped she had outlived the age of blushing; but the age of emotion she certainly had not.
安妮希望自己已经过了脸红的年龄。但到了这个年纪，她肯定没有感情了。

‘Perhaps you may not have heard that he is married?’ added Mrs Croft.
“也许你可能没有听说他结婚了？”克罗夫特夫人补充道。

She could now answer as she ought; and was happy to feel, when Mrs Croft’s next words explained it to be Mr Wentworth of whom she spoke, that she had said nothing which might not do for either brother. She immediately felt how reasonable it was, that Mrs Croft should be thinking and speaking of Edward, and not of Frederick; and with shame at her own forgetfulness applied herself to the knowledge of their former neighbour’s present state with proper interest.
现在她可以如她所愿地回答了。当克罗夫特夫人接下来的话解释说她所说的就是温特沃斯先生时，她很高兴地感觉到，她所说的一切可能对兄弟俩都没有好处。她立刻觉得克罗夫特夫人所想和谈论的应该是爱德华，而不是弗雷德里克，这是多么合理的事。她对自己的健忘感到羞愧，并以适当的兴趣去了解他们前邻居的现状。

The rest was all tranquillity; till, just as they were moving, she heard the Admiral say to Mary—
其余的一切都是平静的。直到他们移动时，她听到海军上将对玛丽说——

‘We are expecting a brother of Mrs Croft’s here soon; I dare say you know him by name.’
“我们期待克罗夫特夫人的兄弟很快就会来；我敢说你认识他的名字。

He was cut short by the eager attacks of the little boys, clinging to him like an old friend, and declaring he should not go; and being too much engrossed by proposals of carrying them away in his coat pockets, &c., to have another moment for finishing or recollecting what he had begun, Anne was left to persuade herself, as well as she could, that the same brother must still be in question. She could not, however, reach such a degree of certainty, as not to be anxious to hear whether anything had been said on the subject at the other house, where the Crofts had previously been calling.
他被小男孩们急切的攻击打断了，他们像老朋友一样紧紧抓住他，并宣布他不应该去。安妮全神贯注于把它们放在外套口袋里带走的提议，等等，没有时间完成或回忆他已经开始的事情，安妮只能尽她所能地说服自己，同一个兄弟必须仍然有疑问。然而，她无法达到如此确定的程度，以至于不急于听听克罗夫特夫妇之前曾拜访过的另一所房子是否就此事发表过任何言论。

The folks of the Great House were to spend the evening of this day at the Cottage; and it being now too late in the year for such visits to be made on foot, the coach was beginning to be listened for, when the youngest Miss Musgrove walked in. That she was coming to apologize, and that they should have to spend the evening by themselves, was the first black idea; and Mary was quite ready to be affronted, when Louisa made all right by saying, that she only came on foot, to leave more room for the harp, which was bringing in the carriage.
这天晚上，大宅子的人们要在小屋里度过。现在已经太晚了，步行去拜访马车已经太晚了，当最小的默斯格罗夫小姐走进来时，马车已经开始有人听了。她是来道歉的，他们应该花上晚上独自一人，是第一个黑色的想法；玛丽已经做好了被冒犯的准备，这时路易莎纠正说，她只是步行来的，为竖琴留出更多的空间，因为竖琴正把马车拉进来。

‘And I will tell you our reason,’ she added, ‘and all about it. I am come on to give you notice, that papa and mamma are out of spirits this evening, especially mamma; she is thinking so much of poor Richard! And we agreed it would be best to have the harp, for it seems to amuse her more than the piano-forte. I will tell you why she is out of spirits. When the Crofts called this morning, (they called here afterwards, did not they?), they happened to say, that her brother, Captain Wentworth, is just returned to England, or paid off, or something, and is coming to see them almost directly; and most unluckily it came into mamma’s head, when they were gone, that Wentworth, or something very like it, was the name of poor Richard’s captain at one time; I do not know when or where, but a great while before he died, poor fellow! And upon looking over his letters and things, she found it was so, and is perfectly sure that this must be the very man, and her head is quite full of it, and of poor Richard! So we must be as merry as we can, that she may not be dwelling upon such gloomy things.’
“我会告诉你我们的理由，”她补充道，“以及一切。”我来通知您，爸爸和妈妈今晚精神不振，尤其是妈妈；她太想念可怜的理查德了！我们一致认为最好有竖琴，因为它似乎比钢琴强项更能逗她开心。我来告诉你她为什么没精神。今天早上克罗夫特一家打电话过来时（后来他们又打电话来了，不是吗？），他们碰巧说，她的兄弟温特沃斯上尉刚刚回到英国，或者还清了薪水，或者什么的，要来看望他们几乎直接；最不幸的是，当他们离开后，妈妈想到了温特沃斯，或者类似的名字，曾经是可怜的理查德船长的名字。我不知道何时何地，但他死前已经有很长一段时间了，可怜的家伙！在查看了他的信件和东西后，她发现确实如此，并且完全确定这一定是这个人，她的脑子里充满了这个想法，还有可怜的理查德！所以我们必须尽可能地快乐，这样她才不会沉迷于这些悲伤的事情。

The real circumstances of this pathetic piece of family history were, that the Musgroves had had the ill fortune of a very troublesome, hopeless son; and the good fortune to lose him before he reached his twentieth year; that he had been sent to sea because he was stupid and unmanageable on shore; that he had been very little cared for at any time by his family, though quite as much as he deserved; seldom heard of, and scarcely at all regretted, when the intelligence of his death abroad had worked its way to Uppercross, two years before.
这段可悲的家族历史的真实情况是，穆斯格罗夫一家的运气不好，有一个非常麻烦、绝望的儿子。幸运的是，在他二十岁之前就失去了他；他被送出海是因为他在岸上愚蠢且难以管理；他在任何时候都很少受到家人的照顾，尽管他得到了应有的照顾；两年前，当他在国外去世的消息传到厄珀克罗斯时，他很少听说，也几乎没有感到遗憾。

He had, in fact, though his sisters were now doing all they could for him, by calling him ‘poor Richard,’ been nothing better than a thick-headed, unfeeling, unprofitable Dick Musgrove, who had never done anything to entitle himself to more than the abbreviation of his name, living or dead.
事实上，尽管他的姐妹们现在为他竭尽全力，称他为“可怜的理查德”，但他只不过是一个头脑迟钝、冷酷无情、无利可图的迪克·穆斯格罗夫，他从未做过任何让自己有资格获得荣誉的事情。不仅仅是他的名字的缩写，无论是生者还是死者。

He had been several years at sea, and had, in the course of those removals to which all midshipmen are liable, and especially such midshipmen as every captain wishes to get rid of, been six months on board Captain Frederick Wentworth’s frigate, the Laconia; and from the Laconia he had, under the influence of his captain, written the only two letters which his father and mother had ever received from him during the whole of his absence; that is to say, the only two disinterested letters; all the rest had been mere applications for money.
他已经在海上呆了好几年了，在所有见习官，尤其是每个船长都希望解雇的见习官都有责任的那些迁移过程中，他在弗雷德里克·温特沃斯船长的护卫舰拉科尼亚号上呆了六个月；他在海上待了六个月。在船长的影响下，他从拉科尼亚号上写下了他离开期间他父母从他那里收到的仅有的两封信。也就是说，仅有的两封无私的信件；其余的一切都只是为了钱的申请。

In each letter he had spoken well of his captain; but yet, so little were they in the habit of attending to such matters, so unobservant and incurious were they as to the names of men or ships, that it had made scarcely any impression at the time; and that Mrs Musgrove should have been suddenly struck, this very day, with a recollection of the name of Wentworth, as connected with her son, seemed one of those extraordinary bursts of mind which do sometimes occur.
在每封信中，他都称赞他的船长。然而，他们很少有关注这些事情的习惯，他们对人或船的名字也如此粗心和不好奇，以至于当时几乎没有给人留下任何印象。就在这一天，默斯格罗夫夫人突然想起了与她儿子有关的温特沃斯这个名字，这似乎是偶尔会发生的那些非凡的心灵爆发之一。

She had gone to her letters, and found it all as she supposed; and the re-perusal of these letters, after so long an interval, her poor son gone for ever, and all the strength of his faults forgotten, had affected her spirits exceedingly, and thrown her into greater grief for him than she had know on first hearing of his death. Mr Musgrove was, in a lesser degree, affected likewise; and when they reached the cottage, they were evidently in want, first, of being listened to anew on this subject, and afterwards, of all the relief which cheerful companions could give them.
她去看了她的信，发现一切都如她所料。时隔这么久，她可怜的儿子已经一去不复返了，他所有的过错都被遗忘了，再次重读这些信件，对她的精神产生了极大的影响，让她为他陷入了前所未有的悲伤。第一次听到他的死讯。穆斯格罗夫先生也受到了同样的影响，但程度较轻。当他们到达小屋时，显然首先需要有人重新倾听他们谈论这个话题，然后又需要快乐的同伴能给他们带来的所有安慰。

To hear them talking so much of Captain Wentworth, repeating his name so often, puzzling over past years, and at last ascertaining that it might, that it probably would, turn out to be the very same Captain Wentworth whom they recollected meeting, once or twice, after their coming back from Clifton—a very fine young man—but they could not say whether it was seven or eight years ago, was a new sort of trial to Anne’s nerves. She found, however, that it was one to which she must inure herself. Since he actually was expected in the country, she must teach herself to be insensible on such points. And not only did it appear that he was expected, and speedily, but the Musgroves, in their warm gratitude for the kindness he had shewn poor Dick, and very high respect for his character, stamped as it was by poor Dick’s having been six months under his care, and mentioning him in strong, though not perfectly well-spelt praise, as ‘a fine dashing felow, only two perticular about the schoolmaster,’ were bent on introducing themselves, and seeking his acquaintance, as soon as they could hear of his arrival.
听到他们如此多地谈论温特沃斯船长，如此频繁地重复他的名字，在过去的几年里感到困惑，最后确定它可能，很可能，结果就是他们记得曾经或曾经见过的温特沃斯船长。他们从克利夫顿（一个非常优秀的年轻人）回来后，有两次，但他们不能说是七年前还是八年前，对安妮的神经来说是一种新的考验。然而，她发现这是她必须让自己习惯的一种。既然他实际上是在国内被期待的，她必须教会自己在这些问题上保持麻木不仁。不仅看起来他很快就被期待着，而且穆斯格罗夫一家也对他对可怜的迪克表现出的善意表示热烈的感谢，并对他的品格表示高度尊重，可怜的迪克已经六个月了，这给他留下了深刻的印象。在他的照顾下，并用强烈的，虽然拼写不完全正确的赞扬他，作为“一个优秀的风度翩翩的家伙，只有两个对校长的关注”，他们一听到他的声音就决心自我介绍，并寻求他的熟人他的到来。

The resolution of doing so helped to form the comfort of their evening.
这样做的决心有助于他们度过一个舒适的夜晚。

Chapter 7
第7章

A very few days more, and Captain Wentworth was known to be at Kellynch, and Mr Musgrove had called on him, and come back warm in his praise, and he was engaged with the Crofts to dine at Uppercross, by the end of another week. It had been a great disappointment to Mr Musgrove to find that no earlier day could be fixed, so impatient was he to shew his gratitude, by seeing Captain Wentworth under his own roof, and welcoming him to all that was strongest and best in his cellars. But a week must pass; only a week, in Anne’s reckoning, and then, she supposed, they must meet; and soon she began to wish that she could feel secure even for a week.
又过了几天，据悉温特沃斯上尉在凯林奇，穆斯格罗夫先生拜访了他，回来后热情地赞扬了他，他与克罗夫特一家订婚，在另一个星期结束前在厄珀克罗斯吃饭。 。穆斯格罗夫先生非常失望地发现，无法提前安排一天，他迫不及待地想在自己的屋檐下见到温特沃斯船长，并欢迎他来到自己地窖里最强大、最好的一切，以表达谢意。 。但一周必须过去；在安妮看来，只有一周的时间，然后，她想，他们必须见面了；很快她开始希望自己能感到安全，哪怕是一周。

Captain Wentworth made a very early return to Mr Musgrove’s civility, and she was all but calling there in the same half hour. She and Mary were actually setting forward for the Great House, where, as she afterwards learnt, they must inevitably have found him, when they were stopped by the eldest boy’s being at that moment brought home in consequence of a bad fall. The child’s situation put the visit entirely aside; but she could not hear of her escape with indifference, even in the midst of the serious anxiety which they afterwards felt on his account.
温特沃斯上尉很早就恢复了穆斯格罗夫先生的礼貌，她几乎在同一半小时内就到了那里。她和玛丽实际上正出发前往大宅，正如她后来得知的那样，他们肯定不可避免地会在那里找到他，这时他们被最大的男孩因严重摔倒而被带回家而拦住了。由于孩子的情况，这次探访完全被搁置了。但她听不到她逃跑的消息，即使是在他们事后为他感到严重焦虑的情况下也是如此。

His collar-bone was found to be dislocated, and such injury received in the back, as roused the most alarming ideas. It was an afternoon of distress, and Anne had every thing to do at once; the apothecary to send for, the father to have pursued and informed, the mother to support and keep from hysterics, the servants to control, the youngest child to banish, and the poor suffering one to attend and soothe; besides sending, as soon as she recollected it, proper notice to the other house, which brought her an accession rather of frightened, enquiring companions, than of very useful assistants.
他的锁骨被发现脱臼，背部受伤，这引起了最令人震惊的想法。这是一个痛苦的下午，安妮同时有所有事情要做。派去药剂师，追捕和通知父亲，支持并防止歇斯底里的母亲，控制仆人，放逐最小的孩子，照顾和抚慰可怜的受苦人；她一想起来，就立即向另一所房子发出了适当的通知，这给她带来的不是一些非常有用的助手，而是一些害怕的、好奇的同伴。

Her brother’s return was the first comfort; he could take best care of his wife; and the second blessing was the arrival of the apothecary. Till he came and had examined the child, their apprehensions were the worse for being vague; they suspected great injury, but knew not where; but now the collar-bone was soon replaced, and though Mr Robinson felt and felt, and rubbed, and looked grave, and spoke low words both to the father and the aunt, still they were all to hope the best, and to be able to part and eat their dinner in tolerable ease of mind; and then it was, just before they parted, that the two young aunts were able so far to digress from their nephew’s state, as to give the information of Captain Wentworth’s visit; staying five minutes behind their father and mother, to endeavour to express how perfectly delighted they were with him, how much handsomer, how infinitely more agreeable they thought him than any individual among their male acquaintance, who had been at all a favourite before. How glad they had been to hear papa invite him to stay dinner, how sorry when he said it was quite out of his power, and how glad again when he had promised in reply to papa and mamma’s farther pressing invitations to come and dine with them on the morrow—actually on the morrow; and he had promised it in so pleasant a manner, as if he felt all the motive of their attention just as he ought. And in short, he had looked and said everything with such exquisite grace, that they could assure them all, their heads were both turned by him; and off they ran, quite as full of glee as of love, and apparently more full of Captain Wentworth than of little Charles.
她哥哥的回归给了她第一个安慰。他可以最好地照顾他的妻子；第二个祝福是药剂师的到来。直到他来检查孩子之后，他们的忧虑才变得更加模糊。他们怀疑受了重伤，但不知道伤在哪里；但现在锁骨很快就被替换了，尽管罗宾逊先生摸了又摸，揉了揉，看上去很严肃，并对父亲和姨妈说着低声的话，但他们仍然希望最好的结果，并且能够分手后，心情轻松地吃晚饭；就在她们分别之前，两位年轻的姨妈才从她们侄子的处境中岔开话题，透露了温特沃斯上尉来访的消息。在他们的父母身后停留了五分钟，努力表达他们对他感到多么高兴，他们认为他比他们的男性熟人中的任何一个人都英俊得多，更加令人愉快，而他们以前一直很喜欢他。他们多么高兴听到爸爸邀请他留下来吃晚饭，当他说这完全超出了他的能力时，他们多么抱歉，当他答应回应爸爸和妈妈更紧迫的邀请来和他们一起吃饭时，他们又多么高兴明天——实际上是明天；他以如此愉快的方式答应了这一点，就好像他理应感受到他们关注的所有动机一样。简而言之，他的眼神和言语都如此优雅，以至于他们可以向所有人保证，他们的头都被他转过头了；他们跑开了，充满了欢乐和爱，显然更多的是温特沃斯船长而不是小查尔斯。

The same story and the same raptures were repeated, when the two girls came with their father, through the gloom of the evening, to make enquiries; and Mr Musgrove, no longer under the first uneasiness about his heir, could add his confirmation and praise, and hope there would be now no occasion for putting Captain Wentworth off, and only be sorry to think that the cottage party, probably, would not like to leave the little boy, to give him the meeting. ‘Oh no; as to leaving the little boy,’ both father and mother were in much too strong and recent alarm to bear the thought; and Anne, in the joy of the escape, could not help adding her warm protestations to theirs.
当两个女孩在夜色中与父亲一起前来询问时，同样的故事和同样的狂喜再次上演。穆斯格罗夫先生不再对他的继承人一开始感到不安，他可以补充他的确认和赞扬，并希望现在没有理由让温特沃斯船长失望，只是遗憾地想到，小屋聚会可能不会喜欢离开这个小男孩，给他开会。 '不好了;至于离开这个小男孩，”父亲和母亲最近都处于强烈的惊慌之中，无法承受这个想法。安妮在逃脱的喜悦中，情不自禁地向他们表示热烈的抗议。

Charles Musgrove, indeed, afterwards, shewed more of inclination; ‘the child was going on so well, and he wished so much to be introduced to Captain Wentworth, that, perhaps, he might join them in the evening; he would not dine from home, but he might walk in for half an hour.’ But in this he was eagerly opposed by his wife, with ‘Oh! no, indeed, Charles, I cannot bear to have you go away. Only think if anything should happen?’
事实上，后来查尔斯·默斯格罗夫表现出了更多的倾向。 “这孩子进展得很好，他非常希望被介绍给温特沃斯上尉，这样，也许他可以在晚上加入他们；他不会在家吃饭，但他可能会步行半个小时。”但这遭到了妻子的极力反对，“哦！不，确实，查尔斯，我无法忍受你离开。只考虑是否会发生什么事情？

The child had a good night, and was going on well the next day. It must be a work of time to ascertain that no injury had been done to the spine; but Mr Robinson found nothing to increase alarm, and Charles Musgrove began, consequently, to feel no necessity for longer confinement. The child was to be kept in bed and amused as quietly as possible; but what was there for a father to do? This was quite a female case, and it would be highly absurd in him, who could be of no use at home, to shut himself up. His father very much wished him to meet Captain Wentworth, and there being no sufficient reason against it, he ought to go; and it ended in his making a bold, public declaration, when he came in from shooting, of his meaning to dress directly, and dine at the other house.
孩子度过了一个美好的夜晚，第二天也表现良好。确定脊椎没有受伤肯定需要花费一些时间。但罗宾逊先生没有发现任何值得警惕的事情，查尔斯·穆斯格罗夫因此开始觉得没有必要再继续监禁了。孩子要留在床上并尽可能安静地玩耍。但父亲能做什么呢？这是一个相当女性的案件，对于他这样一个在家里毫无用处的人来说，把自己关起来，实在是太荒唐了。他的父亲非常希望他去见见温特沃斯上尉，没有充分的理由反对，他应该去。当他结束拍摄回来时，他做出了一个大胆的公开声明，表示他打算直接穿好衣服，在另一栋房子里吃饭。

‘Nothing can be going on better than the child,’ said he; ‘so I told my father, just now, that I would come, and he thought me quite right. Your sister being with you, my love, I have no scruple at all. You would not like to leave him yourself, but you see I can be of no use. Anne will send for me if anything is the matter.’
“没有什么比这孩子更好的了，”他说。 “所以我刚才就告诉父亲我会来，他认为我说得很对。你姐姐和你在一起，我的爱人，我没有任何顾忌。你自己也不愿意离开他，但你知道我毫无用处。如果有什么事情，安妮会派人来找我。”

Husbands and wives generally understand when opposition will be vain. Mary knew, from Charles’s manner of speaking, that he was quite determined on going, and that it would be of no use to teaze him. She said nothing, therefore, till he was out of the room, but as soon as there was only Anne to hear—
丈夫和妻子通常都明白，什么时候反对是徒劳的。玛丽从查尔斯的说话方式就知道，他是铁了心要走，再逗他也是没有用的。因此，她什么也没说，直到他走出房间，但一旦只剩下安妮听到——

‘So you and I are to be left to shift by ourselves, with this poor sick child; and not a creature coming near us all the evening! I knew how it would be. This is always my luck. If there is anything disagreeable going on men are always sure to get out of it, and Charles is as bad as any of them. Very unfeeling! I must say it is very unfeeling of him to be running away from his poor little boy. Talks of his being going on so well! How does he know that he is going on well, or that there may not be a sudden change half an hour hence? I did not think Charles would have been so unfeeling. So here he is to go away and enjoy himself, and because I am the poor mother, I am not to be allowed to stir; and yet, I am sure, I am more unfit than anybody else to be about the child. My being the mother is the very reason why my feelings should not be tried. I am not at all equal to it. You saw how hysterical I was yesterday.’
“所以你和我只能独自一人，带着这个可怜的生病的孩子；整个晚上都没有一个生物靠近我们！我知道会怎样。这永远是我的幸运。如果发生任何不愉快的事情，男人们总是一定会摆脱它，而查尔斯和他们中的任何一个人一样糟糕。很绝情！我必须说，他逃离他可怜的小男孩是非常无情的。说他过得很好！他怎么知道自己进展顺利，或者半小时后不会发生突然的变化？我没想到查尔斯会如此绝情。所以他要离开这里去享受生活，而因为我是可怜的母亲，所以不准我动弹。然而，我确信，我比任何人都更不适合照顾孩子。我是母亲，这就是我的感情不应该受到考验的原因。我根本无法与之相比。你看到我昨天有多歇斯底里。

‘But that was only the effect of the suddenness of your alarm— of the shock. You will not be hysterical again. I dare say we shall have nothing to distress us. I perfectly understand Mr Robinson’s directions, and have no fears; and indeed, Mary, I cannot wonder at your husband. Nursing does not belong to a man; it is not his province. A sick child is always the mother’s property: her own feelings generally make it so.’
“但这只是你突然发出警报——震惊的结果。你不会再歇斯底里了。我敢说我们不会有任何事情让我们烦恼。我完全理解罗宾逊先生的指示，并且没有恐惧；事实上，玛丽，我不能对你的丈夫感到惊讶。护理工作不属于男人；这不是他的管辖范围。生病的孩子永远是母亲的财产：通常是她自己的感受造成的。”

‘I hope I am as fond of my child as any mother, but I do not know that I am of any more use in the sick-room than Charles, for I cannot be always scolding and teazing the poor child when it is ill; and you saw, this morning, that if I told him to keep quiet, he was sure to begin kicking about. I have not nerves for the sort of thing.’
“我希望我像任何母亲一样爱我的孩子，但我不知道我在病房里比查尔斯更有用，因为当这个可怜的孩子生病时，我不能总是责骂和戏弄它;今天早上你看到了，如果我告诉他保持安静，他肯定会开始乱踢。我对这种事情没有勇气。

‘But, could you be comfortable yourself, to be spending the whole evening away from the poor boy?’
“但是，整个晚上都远离这个可怜的男孩，你能感到舒服吗？”

‘Yes; you see his papa can, and why should not I? Jemima is so careful; and she could send us word every hour how he was. I really think Charles might as well have told his father we would all come. I am not more alarmed about little Charles now than he is. I was dreadfully alarmed yesterday, but the case is very different to-day.’
'是的;你看他爸爸可以，为什么我不可以呢？杰迈玛非常小心；她每小时都会向我们通报他的情况。我真的认为查尔斯最好告诉他父亲我们都会来。我现在对小查尔斯的担心并不比他更严重。昨天我非常震惊，但今天的情况却大不相同了。”

‘Well, if you do not think it too late to give notice for yourself, suppose you were to go, as well as your husband. Leave little Charles to my care. Mr and Mrs Musgrove cannot think it wrong while I remain with him.’
“好吧，如果你认为现在通知自己还不算太晚，那么假设你和你的丈夫都要去。把小查尔斯交给我照顾吧。当我和他在一起时，穆斯格罗夫先生和夫人不会认为这是错误的。

‘Are you serious?’ cried Mary, her eyes brightening. ‘Dear me! that’s a very good thought, very good, indeed. To be sure, I may just as well go as not, for I am of no use at home—am I? and it only harasses me. You, who have not a mother’s feelings, are a great deal the properest person. You can make little Charles do anything; he always minds you at a word. It will be a great deal better than leaving him only with Jemima. Oh! I shall certainly go; I am sure I ought if I can, quite as much as Charles, for they want me excessively to be acquainted with Captain Wentworth, and I know you do not mind being left alone. An excellent thought of yours, indeed, Anne. I will go and tell Charles, and get ready directly. You can send for us, you know, at a moment’s notice, if anything is the matter; but I dare say there will be nothing to alarm you. I should not go, you may be sure, if I did not feel quite at ease about my dear child.’
“你是认真的吗？”玛丽喊道，她的眼睛闪闪发亮。 '亲爱的我！这是一个非常好的想法，确实非常好。确实，我去也好，不去也罢，因为我在家里毫无用处——不是吗？它只会骚扰我。你这个没有母爱的人，实在是最正经的人。你可以让小查尔斯做任何事；他总是一句话就在意你。这比只让他和杰米玛在一起要好得多。哦！我一定会去；我相信如果可以的话我应该这样做，就像查尔斯一样，因为他们非常希望我熟悉温特沃斯船长，而且我知道你不介意一个人呆着。确实，你的想法非常好，安妮。我去告诉查尔斯，然后直接准备。如果有什么问题，你知道，可以立即派人来找我们；但我敢说没有什么可以让你惊慌的。你可以肯定，如果我对我亲爱的孩子感到不放心，我就不应该去。

The next moment she was tapping at her husband’s dressing-room door, and as Anne followed her up stairs, she was in time for the whole conversation, which began with Mary’s saying, in a tone of great exultation—
下一刻，她敲响了她丈夫更衣室的门，当安妮跟着她上楼梯时，她及时地听完了整个谈话，谈话开始于玛丽，语气里充满了狂喜——

‘I mean to go with you, Charles, for I am of no more use at home than you are. If I were to shut myself up for ever with the child, I should not be able to persuade him to do anything he did not like. Anne will stay; Anne undertakes to stay at home and take care of him. It is Anne’s own proposal, and so I shall go with you, which will be a great deal better, for I have not dined at the other house since Tuesday.’
“我打算和你一起去，查尔斯，因为我在家里并不比你更有用。如果我把自己和孩子永远关在一起，我应该无法说服他做他不喜欢的事情。安妮会留下来；安妮承诺留在家里照顾他。这是安妮自己的提议，所以我和你一起去，这样会好很多，因为自从星期二以来我就没有在另一家吃饭了。

‘This is very kind of Anne,’ was her husband’s answer, ‘and I should be very glad to have you go; but it seems rather hard that she should be left at home by herself, to nurse our sick child.’
“安妮真是太好了，”她丈夫回答道，“我很高兴你能离开；但让她一个人留在家里照顾我们生病的孩子似乎很难。”

Anne was now at hand to take up her own cause, and the sincerity of her manner being soon sufficient to convince him, where conviction was at least very agreeable, he had no farther scruples as to her being left to dine alone, though he still wanted her to join them in the evening, when the child might be at rest for the night, and kindly urged her to let him come and fetch her, but she was quite unpersuadable; and this being the case, she had ere long the pleasure of seeing them set off together in high spirits. They were gone, she hoped, to be happy, however oddly constructed such happiness might seem; as for herself, she was left with as many sensations of comfort, as were, perhaps, ever likely to be hers. She knew herself to be of the first utility to the child; and what was it to her if Frederick Wentworth were only half a mile distant, making himself agreeable to others?
安妮现在就要开始自己的事业了，她态度的真诚很快就足以说服他，在信念至少非常令人愉快的情况下，他对留下她一个人吃饭没有更多的顾虑，尽管他仍然想让她晚上和他们一起去，那时孩子可能会休息一晚，并好心地劝她让他来接她，但她很难说服。既然如此，她很快就高兴地看到他们兴高采烈地一起出发了。她希望他们离开是为了幸福，不管这种幸福看起来多么奇怪。至于她自己，她得到了尽可能多的舒适感，也许她永远都会有这样的舒适感。她知道自己对孩子来说是最重要的。如果弗雷德里克·温特沃斯离他只有半英里，让别人觉得他很讨人喜欢，那对她又有什么意义呢？

She would have liked to know how he felt as to a meeting. Perhaps indifferent, if indifference could exist under such circumstances. He must be either indifferent or unwilling. Had he wished ever to see her again, he need not have waited till this time; he would have done what she could not but believe that in his place she should have done long ago, when events had been early giving him the independence which alone had been wanting.
她很想知道他对这次会面有何感受。也许是冷漠，如果在这种情况下可以存在冷漠的话。他一定要么无动于衷，要么不愿意。如果他想再次见到她，他不必等到这个时候；他会做她不能做的事，但她相信，在他的位置上，她早就应该这样做了，当时事件很早就给了他唯一一直想要的独立性。

Her brother and sister came back delighted with their new acquaintance, and their visit in general. There had been music, singing, talking, laughing, all that was most agreeable; charming manners in Captain Wentworth, no shyness or reserve; they seemed all to know each other perfectly, and he was coming the very next morning to shoot with Charles. He was to come to breakfast, but not at the Cottage, though that had been proposed at first; but then he had been pressed to come to the Great House instead, and he seemed afraid of being in Mrs Charles Musgrove’s way, on account of the child, and therefore, somehow, they hardly knew how, it ended in Charles’s being to meet him to breakfast at his father’s.
她的哥哥和姐姐回来后，对他们的新相识以及他们的来访感到很高兴。有音乐、有歌声、有谈话、有笑声，一切都是那么令人愉快。温特沃斯船长的举止迷人，没有害羞或矜持；他们似乎彼此非常了解，第二天早上他就来和查尔斯一起拍摄。他要来吃早餐，但不是去小屋，尽管这是一开始就提议的。但后来他被迫去大宅，而且因为孩子的缘故，他似乎害怕妨碍查尔斯·默斯格罗夫夫人，因此，不知怎的，他们几乎不知道怎么回事，结果是查尔斯来见他了。去他父亲家吃早餐。

Anne understood it. He wished to avoid seeing her. He had inquired after her, she found, slightly, as might suit a former slight acquaintance, seeming to acknowledge such as she had acknowledged, actuated, perhaps, by the same view of escaping introduction when they were to meet.
安妮明白了。他想避免见到她。她发现，他稍微打听了她的情况，这可能适合以前的熟人，似乎承认了她所承认的事情，也许是出于在他们见面时逃避介绍的同样的想法。

The morning hours of the Cottage were always later than those of the other house, and on the morrow the difference was so great that Mary and Anne were not more than beginning breakfast when Charles came in to say that they were just setting off, that he was come for his dogs, that his sisters were following with Captain Wentworth; his sisters meaning to visit Mary and the child, and Captain Wentworth proposing also to wait on her for a few minutes if not inconvenient; and though Charles had answered for the child’s being in no such state as could make it inconvenient, Captain Wentworth would not be satisfied without his running on to give notice.
小屋的早晨时间总是比另一栋房子的时间晚，第二天，差异是如此之大，以至于玛丽和安妮刚开始吃早餐，查尔斯就进来说他们正要出发，他是来抓他的狗的，他的姐妹们跟在温特沃斯船长的后面；他的姐妹们打算去看望玛丽和孩子，温特沃斯上尉提议如果不方便的话也可以等她几分钟。虽然查尔斯已经回答说孩子的情况不会造成任何不便，但如果他不跑去通知，温特沃斯上尉就不会满意。

Mary, very much gratified by this attention, was delighted to receive him, while a thousand feelings rushed on Anne, of which this was the most consoling, that it would soon be over. And it was soon over. In two minutes after Charles’s preparation, the others appeared; they were in the drawing-room. Her eye half met Captain Wentworth’s, a bow, a curtsey passed; she heard his voice; he talked to Mary, said all that was right, said something to the Miss Musgroves, enough to mark an easy footing; the room seemed full, full of persons and voices, but a few minutes ended it. Charles shewed himself at the window, all was ready, their visitor had bowed and was gone, the Miss Musgroves were gone too, suddenly resolving to walk to the end of the village with the sportsmen: the room was cleared, and Anne might finish her breakfast as she could.
玛丽对这种关注感到非常满意，很高兴接待他，而安妮心里涌上一千种感觉，其中最令人安慰的是，一切很快就会结束。很快就结束了。查尔斯做好准备后两分钟，其他人就出现了。他们在客厅里。她的目光与温特沃斯上尉的目光一半对视，鞠了一躬，行了屈膝礼。她听到了他的声音；他和玛丽交谈，说了所有正确的话，对莫斯格罗夫小姐说了一些话，足以标志着一个轻松的立足点；房间里似乎挤满了人，充满了声音，但几分钟后就结束了。查尔斯出现在窗前，一切都准备好了，他们的客人已经鞠躬走了，穆斯格罗夫小姐也走了，突然决定和运动员们一起走到村庄的尽头：房间已经清理干净了，安妮可以完成她的任务了。尽她所能吃早餐。

‘It is over! it is over!’ she repeated to herself again and again, in nervous gratitude. ‘The worst is over!’
'结束了！一切都结束了！”她一遍又一遍地对自己重复着，带着紧张的感激之情。 “最糟糕的时期已经过去了！”

Mary talked, but she could not attend. She had seen him. They had met. They had been once more in the same room.
玛丽发表了讲话，但她无法参加。她见过他。他们见过面。他们再次在同一个房间里。

Soon, however, she began to reason with herself, and try to be feeling less. Eight years, almost eight years had passed, since all had been given up. How absurd to be resuming the agitation which such an interval had banished into distance and indistinctness! What might not eight years do? Events of every description, changes, alienations, removals—all, all must be comprised in it, and oblivion of the past— how natural, how certain too! It included nearly a third part of her own life.
然而很快，她开始对自己讲道理，并努力减轻自己的感觉。八年了，快八年过去了，一切都被放弃了。如此短暂的一段时间已经使人们变得遥远而模糊，现在又要恢复这种激动是多么荒唐啊！八年可能做不到什么？各种各样的事件、变化、疏远、迁移——一切，一切都必须包含在其中，而过去的遗忘——多么自然，也多么确定！这几乎涵盖了她自己生活的三分之一。

Alas! with all her reasoning, she found, that to retentive feelings eight years may be little more than nothing.
唉!她发现，根据她的所有推理，八年的感情对于记忆来说可能只不过是微不足道的。

Now, how were his sentiments to be read? Was this like wishing to avoid her? And the next moment she was hating herself for the folly which asked the question.
现在，如何解读他的情绪呢？这是想避开她吗？下一刻，她就恨自己提出这个问题的愚蠢行为。

On one other question which perhaps her utmost wisdom might not have prevented, she was soon spared all suspense; for, after the Miss Musgroves had returned and finished their visit at the Cottage she had this spontaneous information from Mary: —
在另一个问题上，她的智慧也许无法阻止，但她很快就没有了悬念。因为，在穆斯格罗夫斯小姐回来并完成对小屋的访问后，她从玛丽那里得到了以下自发的信息：

‘Captain Wentworth is not very gallant by you, Anne, though he was so attentive to me. Henrietta asked him what he thought of you, when they went away, and he said, ‘You were so altered he should not have known you again.’’
“温特沃斯船长对你不太殷勤，安妮，尽管他对我如此殷勤。当他们离开时，亨利埃塔问他对你的看法，他说：“你变了很多，他不应该再认识你了。”

Mary had no feelings to make her respect her sister’s in a common way, but she was perfectly unsuspicious of being inflicting any peculiar wound.
玛丽无意让她以平常的方式尊重她姐姐，但她完全没有怀疑自己会造成任何特殊的伤害。

‘Altered beyond his knowledge.’ Anne fully submitted, in silent, deep mortification. Doubtless it was so, and she could take no revenge, for he was not altered, or not for the worse. She had already acknowledged it to herself, and she could not think differently, let him think of her as he would. No: the years which had destroyed her youth and bloom had only given him a more glowing, manly, open look, in no respect lessening his personal advantages. She had seen the same Frederick Wentworth.
“改变超出了他的认知。”安妮完全屈服了，默默地、深深地感到羞愧。毫无疑问，事实就是如此，她无法报复，因为他没有改变，或者没有变得更糟。她自己已经承认了这一点，她不能有不同的想法，让他怎么想她就怎么想。不：岁月摧毁了她的青春和绽放，只是让他看起来更加容光焕发、更有男子气概、更加开放，丝毫没有削弱他的个人优势。她也见过同样的弗雷德里克·温特沃斯。

‘So altered that he should not have known her again!’ These were words which could not but dwell with her. Yet she soon began to rejoice that she had heard them. They were of sobering tendency; they allayed agitation; they composed, and consequently must make her happier.
“变化如此之大，他不应该再认识她了！”这些话让她不得不铭记在心。然而她很快就开始为自己听到了这些话而感到高兴。它们具有清醒的倾向；他们平息了躁动；他们平静下来，因此一定会让她更快乐。

Frederick Wentworth had used such words, or something like them, but without an idea that they would be carried round to her. He had thought her wretchedly altered, and in the first moment of appeal, had spoken as he felt. He had not forgiven Anne Elliot. She had used him ill, deserted and disappointed him; and worse, she had shewn a feebleness of character in doing so, which his own decided, confident temper could not endure. She had given him up to oblige others. It had been the effect of over-persuasion. It had been weakness and timidity.
弗雷德里克·温特沃斯曾用过这样的词，或者类似的词，但没有想到这些词会被传到她那里。他原以为她已经发生了可悲的变化，在上诉的第一刻，她就说出了他的感受。他没有原谅安妮·埃利奥特。她虐待了他，抛弃了他，让他失望。更糟糕的是，她这样做表现出了性格上的软弱，而他自己坚定而自信的脾气却无法忍受。她放弃他是为了帮助别人。这是过度说服的结果。这是软弱和胆怯。

He had been most warmly attached to her, and had never seen a woman since whom he thought her equal; but, except from some natural sensation of curiosity, he had no desire of meeting her again. Her power with him was gone for ever.
他对她的依恋是最热烈的，从来没有见过一个他认为与她平等的女人。但是，除了出于某种自然的好奇心之外，他不想再见到她。她与他的力量永远消失了。

It was now his object to marry. He was rich, and being turned on shore, fully intended to settle as soon as he could be properly tempted; actually looking round, ready to fall in love with all the speed which a clear head and a quick taste could allow. He had a heart for either of the Miss Musgroves, if they could catch it; a heart, in short, for any pleasing young woman who came in his way, excepting Anne Elliot. This was his only secret exception, when he said to his sister, in answer to her suppositions:—
现在他的目标是结婚。他很富有，而且被赶上岸，一心想一旦受到适当的诱惑就定居下来。实际上环顾四周，准备好爱上清醒的头脑和敏捷的品味所允许的所有速度。他对莫斯格罗夫小姐有一颗心，如果她们能抓住的话。简而言之，一颗心适合任何阻碍他的年轻女子，除了安妮·埃利奥特。这是他唯一的秘密例外，当他对妹妹回答她的猜测时说：

‘Yes, here I am, Sophia, quite ready to make a foolish match. Anybody between fifteen and thirty may have me for asking. A little beauty, and a few smiles, and a few compliments to the navy, and I am a lost man. Should not this be enough for a sailor, who has had no society among women to make him nice?’
“是的，索菲亚，我已经准备好进行一场愚蠢的比赛了。十五岁到三十岁之间的任何人都可以向我询问。一点美丽，一点微笑，一点对海军的赞美，我就是一个迷失的人。对于一个没有与女性交往过的水手来说，这难道还不够吗？

He said it, she knew, to be contradicted. His bright proud eye spoke the conviction that he was nice; and Anne Elliot was not out of his thoughts, when he more seriously described the woman he should wish to meet with. ‘A strong mind, with sweetness of manner,’ made the first and the last of the description.
她知道，他这么说是为了自相矛盾。他那双明亮、骄傲的眼睛表明他坚信自己是个好人。当他更认真地描述他希望见到的那个女人时，安妮·埃利奥特并没有离开他的思绪。 “坚强的意志，和蔼可亲的举止，”是描述的第一个也是最后一个。

‘That is the woman I want,’ said he. ‘Something a little inferior I shall of course put up with, but it must not be much. If I am a fool, I shall be a fool indeed, for I have thought on the subject more than most men.’
“这就是我想要的女人，”他说。 “稍微低劣的东西我当然会忍受，但一定不能太低。如果我是个傻瓜，那我就真的是个傻瓜了，因为我比大多数人更多地思考这个问题。

Chapter 8
第8章

From this time Captain Wentworth and Anne Elliot were repeatedly in the same circle. They were soon dining in company together at Mr Musgrove’s, for the little boy’s state could no longer supply his aunt with a pretence for absenting herself; and this was but the beginning of other dinings and other meetings.
从那时起，温特沃斯上尉和安妮·埃利奥特就多次出现在同一个圈子里。他们很快就在穆斯格罗夫先生家里一起吃饭了，因为小男孩的状况已经不能再为他的姨妈提供缺席的借口了。这只是其他宴会和会议的开始。

Whether former feelings were to be renewed must be brought to the proof; former times must undoubtedly be brought to the recollection of each; they could not but be reverted to; the year of their engagement could not but be named by him, in the little narratives or descriptions which conversation called forth. His profession qualified him, his disposition lead him, to talk; and ‘That was in the year six;’ ‘That happened before I went to sea in the year six,’ occurred in the course of the first evening they spent together: and though his voice did not falter, and though she had no reason to suppose his eye wandering towards her while he spoke, Anne felt the utter impossibility, from her knowledge of his mind, that he could be unvisited by remembrance any more than herself. There must be the same immediate association of thought, though she was very far from conceiving it to be of equal pain.
旧情能否重燃，还需检验；毫无疑问，每个人都必须回忆起过去的时光；他们不得不被恢复；他们订婚的那一年，他只能在谈话中的小叙述或描述中说出。他的职业使他有资格说话，他的性情引导他说话； “那是在第六年。”“那是在第六年我出海之前发生的，”发生在他们在一起度过的第一个晚上：虽然他的声音没有颤抖，尽管她没有理由安妮觉得，根据她对他思想的了解，他说话的时候，他的目光会朝她这边移动，她觉得，他和她自己一样，完全不可能被记忆所拜访。一定有同样的直接联想，尽管她远没有想象到它会带来同样的痛苦。

They had no conversation together, no intercourse but what the commonest civility required. Once so much to each other! Now nothing! There had been a time, when of all the large party now filling the drawing-room at Uppercross, they would have found it most difficult to cease to speak to one another. With the exception, perhaps, of Admiral and Mrs Croft, who seemed particularly attached and happy, (Anne could allow no other exceptions even among the married couples), there could have been no two hearts so open, no tastes so similar, no feelings so in unison, no countenances so beloved. Now they were as strangers; nay, worse than strangers, for they could never become acquainted. It was a perpetual estrangement.
他们没有在一起交谈，没有任何交流，只有最常见的礼貌所要求的。曾经彼此如此多！现在什么也没有了！曾经有一段时间，在现在厄普克罗斯客厅里挤满了一大群人的时候，他们会发现最难停止互相交谈。也许，除了海军上将和克罗夫特夫人，他们似乎特别依恋和幸福（安妮即使在已婚夫妇中也不允许有其他例外），不可能有两颗心如此开放，没有如此相似的品味，没有如此相似的感情。如此一致，没有任何表情如此可爱。现在他们就像陌生人一样；不仅如此，这比陌生人还要糟糕，因为他们永远不可能熟悉。这是一种永久的疏远。

When he talked, she heard the same voice, and discerned the same mind. There was a very general ignorance of all naval matters throughout the party; and he was very much questioned, and especially by the two Miss Musgroves, who seemed hardly to have any eyes but for him, as to the manner of living on board, daily regulations, food, hours, &c., and their surprise at his accounts, at learning the degree of accommodation and arrangement which was practicable, drew from him some pleasant ridicule, which reminded Anne of the early days when she too had been ignorant, and she too had been accused of supposing sailors to be living on board without anything to eat, or any cook to dress it if there were, or any servant to wait, or any knife and fork to use.
当他说话时，她听到同样的声音，辨别同样的心。整个党内普遍对所有海军事务一无所知。他受到了很多询问，尤其是两位穆斯格罗夫小姐，她们似乎几乎只关注他，询问船上的生活方式、日常规定、食物、工作时间等等，以及她们对他的惊讶。在了解到可行的住宿和安排程度后，他从他那里引来了一些愉快的嘲笑，这让安妮想起了早年她也无知的时候，她也被指责认为水手们住在船上而没有任何吃的东西，或者任何厨师来做饭（如果有的话），或者任何仆人等待，或者任何可以使用的刀叉。

From thus listening and thinking, she was roused by a whisper of Mrs Musgrove’s who, overcome by fond regrets, could not help saying—
从这样的聆听和思考中，她被莫斯格罗夫夫人的低语声惊醒，她被深深的悔恨所压倒，忍不住说：

‘Ah! Miss Anne, if it had pleased Heaven to spare my poor son, I dare say he would have been just such another by this time.’
'啊！安妮小姐，如果上天饶恕我可怜的儿子，我敢说他现在也已经是这样的人了。

Anne suppressed a smile, and listened kindly, while Mrs Musgrove relieved her heart a little more; and for a few minutes, therefore, could not keep pace with the conversation of the others.
安妮忍住笑容，和善地听着，默斯格罗夫夫人的心也稍稍松了口气。因此，有几分钟的时间，我无法跟上其他人的谈话节奏。

When she could let her attention take its natural course again, she found the Miss Musgroves just fetching the Navy List (their own navy list, the first that had ever been at Uppercross), and sitting down together to pore over it, with the professed view of finding out the ships that Captain Wentworth had commanded.
当她能够让自己的注意力再次自然而然地集中起来时，她发现穆斯格罗夫小姐正在取海军名单（他们自己的海军名单，这是阿珀克罗斯有史以来的第一份），并坐在一起仔细研究它，并自称是目的是找出温特沃斯船长指挥的船只。

‘Your first was the Asp, I remember; we will look for the Asp.’
“我记得你的第一个是阿斯普；我们会寻找天冬氨酸。

‘You will not find her there. Quite worn out and broken up. I was the last man who commanded her. Hardly fit for service then. Reported fit for home service for a year or two, and so I was sent off to the West Indies.’
‘你在那里找不到她。相当破旧和破碎。我是最后一个命令她的人。那时几乎不适合服务。据报道，我适合在家服役一两年，所以我被派往西印度群岛。

The girls looked all amazement.
女孩们都露出惊讶的表情。

‘The Admiralty,’ he continued, ‘entertain themselves now and then, with sending a few hundred men to sea, in a ship not fit to be employed. But they have a great many to provide for; and among the thousands that may just as well go to the bottom as not, it is impossible for them to distinguish the very set who may be least missed.’
“海军部，”他继续说道，“时不时地派遣几百人乘坐一艘不适合使用的船出海，以此来娱乐自己。但他们有很多人需要养活；在数以千计的人中，他们不可能区分出最不被遗漏的人。

‘Phoo! phoo!’ cried the Admiral, ‘what stuff these young fellows talk! Never was a better sloop than the Asp in her day. For an old built sloop, you would not see her equal. Lucky fellow to get her! He knows there must have been twenty better men than himself applying for her at the same time. Lucky fellow to get anything so soon, with no more interest than his.’
‘噗！噗！”海军上将喊道，“这些年轻人在说什么！在她那个时代，没有比 Asp 更好的单桅帆船了。对于一艘老式单桅帆船来说，你不会看到她能与之匹敌。幸运的家伙得到她！他知道肯定有二十个比他更好的男人同时向她申请。幸运的家伙这么快就得到了任何东西，而且没有比他更感兴趣的了。

‘I felt my luck, Admiral, I assure you;’ replied Captain Wentworth, seriously. ‘I was as well satisfied with my appointment as you can desire. It was a great object with me at that time to be at sea; a very great object, I wanted to be doing something.’
“我感到我很幸运，海军上将，我向你保证。”温特沃斯船长严肃地回答道。 “正如你所希望的那样，我对我的任命非常满意。那时，出海对我来说是一个伟大的目标。这是一个非常伟大的目标，我想做点什么。”

‘To be sure you did. What should a young fellow like you do ashore for half a year together? If a man had not a wife, he soon wants to be afloat again.’
‘当然你做到了。像你这样的年轻人，一起上岸半年应该做什么呢？如果一个男人没有妻子，他很快就会想再次谋生。”

‘But, Captain Wentworth,’ cried Louisa, ‘how vexed you must have been when you came to the Asp, to see what an old thing they had given you.’
“但是，温特沃斯船长，”路易莎喊道，“当你来到阿斯普号时，看到他们给了你一件多么古老的东西，你一定感到多么烦恼。”

‘I knew pretty well what she was before that day;’ said he, smiling. ‘I had no more discoveries to make than you would have as to the fashion and strength of any old pelisse, which you had seen lent about among half your acquaintance ever since you could remember, and which at last, on some very wet day, is lent to yourself. Ah! she was a dear old Asp to me. She did all that I wanted. I knew she would. I knew that we should either go to the bottom together, or that she would be the making of me; and I never had two days of foul weather all the time I was at sea in her; and after taking privateers enough to be very entertaining, I had the good luck in my passage home the next autumn, to fall in with the very French frigate I wanted. I brought her into Plymouth; and here another instance of luck. We had not been six hours in the Sound, when a gale came on, which lasted four days and nights, and which would have done for poor old Asp in half the time; our touch with the Great Nation not having much improved our condition. Four-and-twenty hours later, and I should only have been a gallant Captain Wentworth, in a small paragraph at one corner of the newspapers; and being lost in only a sloop, nobody would have thought about me.’ Anne’s shudderings were to herself alone; but the Miss Musgroves could be as open as they were sincere, in their exclamations of pity and horror.
“那天之前我很清楚她是什么样的人。”他微笑着说道。 “我对任何旧外套的时尚和强度没有更多的发现，自从你记事起，你就看到过你一半的熟人借过它，最后，在某个非常潮湿的日子，它，是借给自己的。啊!对我来说，她是一位亲爱的老阿斯普。她做了我想要的一切。我知道她会的。我知道我们要么一起走到谷底，要么她就会造就我；我在她的海上航行期间，从来没有遇到过两天恶劣的天气。在驾驶了足够多的私掠船之后，我在第二年秋天回家的路上很幸运，遇到了我想要的法国护卫舰。我把她带到了普利茅斯；这又是一个幸运的例子。我们在海峡待了不到六个小时，一阵大风袭来，持续了四天四夜，对于可怜的老阿斯普来说，这将在一半的时间里结束；我们与伟大国家的接触并没有多大改善我们的状况。四又二十个小时后，我本该成为一名英勇的温特沃斯上尉，出现在报纸一角的一小段文字中。 “如果我迷失在单桅帆船上，没有人会想到我。”安妮独自在颤抖。但穆斯格罗夫小姐在她们的怜悯和恐惧感叹中却可以坦率而真诚。

‘And so then, I suppose,’ said Mrs Musgrove, in a low voice, as if thinking aloud, ‘so then he went away to the Laconia, and there he met with our poor boy. Charles, my dear,’ (beckoning him to her), ‘do ask Captain Wentworth where it was he first met with your poor brother. I always forgot.’
“我想，”莫斯格罗夫夫人低声说道，仿佛在大声思考，“于是他就去了拉科尼亚，在那里遇见了我们可怜的孩子。查尔斯，亲爱的，”（向她招手），“一定要问问温特沃斯船长他第一次见到你可怜的兄弟是在哪里。我总是忘记。

‘It was at Gibraltar, mother, I know. Dick had been left ill at Gibraltar, with a recommendation from his former captain to Captain Wentworth.’
“那是在直布罗陀，妈妈，我知道。迪克在直布罗陀生病了，他的前任船长向温特沃斯船长推荐了他。

‘Oh! but, Charles, tell Captain Wentworth, he need not be afraid of mentioning poor Dick before me, for it would be rather a pleasure to hear him talked of by such a good friend.’
'哦！但是，查尔斯，请告诉温特沃斯上尉，他不必害怕在我面前提到可怜的迪克，因为听到这样的好朋友谈论他将是一件很高兴的事。

Charles, being somewhat more mindful of the probabilities of the case, only nodded in reply, and walked away.
查尔斯对这件事的可能性更加在意，只是点点头回应，然后走开了。

The girls were now hunting for the Laconia; and Captain Wentworth could not deny himself the pleasure of taking the precious volume into his own hands to save them the trouble, and once more read aloud the little statement of her name and rate, and present non-commissioned class, observing over it that she too had been one of the best friends man ever had.
女孩们现在正在寻找拉科尼亚。温特沃斯上尉无法否认自己很高兴将这本珍贵的书拿在自己手中，以省去他们的麻烦，并再次大声朗读了关于她的姓名和等级以及当前军士级的小陈述，观察到她他也是人类有史以来最好的朋友之一。

‘Ah! those were pleasant days when I had the Laconia! How fast I made money in her. A friend of mine and I had such a lovely cruise together off the Western Islands. Poor Harville, sister! You know how much he wanted money: worse than myself. He had a wife. Excellent fellow. I shall never forget his happiness. He felt it all, so much for her sake. I wished for him again the next summer, when I had still the same luck in the Mediterranean.’
'啊！当我拥有 Laconia 时，那是一段愉快的日子！我在她身上赚到钱多快啊。我和我的一个朋友在西部群岛一起度过了一次愉快的巡游。可怜的哈维尔，妹妹！你知道他有多想要钱：比我自己还要多。他有一个妻子。优秀的家伙。我永远不会忘记他的幸福。他感受到这一切，都是为了她。第二年夏天我再次希望他能出现，那时我在地中海仍然有同样的运气。

‘And I am sure, Sir.’ said Mrs Musgrove, ‘it was a lucky day for us, when you were put captain into that ship. We shall never forget what you did.’
“我确信，先生，”穆斯格罗夫夫人说，“当您被任命为船长时，这对我们来说是幸运的一天。我们永远不会忘记你所做的一切。

Her feelings made her speak low; and Captain Wentworth, hearing only in part, and probably not having Dick Musgrove at all near his thoughts, looked rather in suspense, and as if waiting for more.
她的感情使她说话声音很低。温特沃斯上尉只听到了一部分，而且很可能根本没有想到迪克·穆斯格罗夫，他看起来颇为悬疑，仿佛在等待更多。

‘My brother,’ whispered one of the girls; ‘mamma is thinking of poor Richard.’
“我的兄弟，”其中一个女孩低声说道。 “妈妈在想可怜的理查德。”

‘Poor dear fellow!’ continued Mrs Musgrove; ‘he was grown so steady, and such an excellent correspondent, while he was under your care! Ah! it would have been a happy thing, if he had never left you. I assure you, Captain Wentworth, we are very sorry he ever left you.’
“可怜的家伙！”穆斯格罗夫夫人继续说道。 “在你的照顾下，他变得如此稳定，成为一名出色的记者！”啊!如果他从来没有离开过你，那将是一件幸福的事情。我向你保证，温特沃斯上尉，我们对他离开你感到非常遗憾。

There was a momentary expression in Captain Wentworth’s face at this speech, a certain glance of his bright eye, and curl of his handsome mouth, which convinced Anne, that instead of sharing in Mrs Musgrove’s kind wishes, as to her son, he had probably been at some pains to get rid of him; but it was too transient an indulgence of self-amusement to be detected by any who understood him less than herself; in another moment he was perfectly collected and serious, and almost instantly afterwards coming up to the sofa, on which she and Mrs Musgrove were sitting, took a place by the latter, and entered into conversation with her, in a low voice, about her son, doing it with so much sympathy and natural grace, as shewed the kindest consideration for all that was real and unabsurd in the parent’s feelings.
听到这番话，温特沃斯船长的脸上闪过一丝表情，他明亮的眼睛一闪而过，他英俊的嘴角一弯，这使安妮确信，他并没有分享默斯格罗夫夫人对她儿子的美好祝愿，他可能已经费尽心思想要摆脱他；但这种自娱自乐的放纵太过短暂，任何比她更了解他的人都无法察觉。过了一会儿，他完全镇定下来，严肃起来，几乎立刻就走到了她和默斯格罗夫夫人坐的沙发前，在后者旁边坐下，低声与她交谈，谈论她的情况。儿子这样做时充满了同情和自然的优雅，表现出了对父母真实而不荒谬的感情的最善意的考虑。

They were actually on the same sofa, for Mrs Musgrove had most readily made room for him; they were divided only by Mrs Musgrove. It was no insignificant barrier, indeed. Mrs Musgrove was of a comfortable, substantial size, infinitely more fitted by nature to express good cheer and good humour, than tenderness and sentiment; and while the agitations of Anne’s slender form, and pensive face, may be considered as very completely screened, Captain Wentworth should be allowed some credit for the self-command with which he attended to her large fat sighings over the destiny of a son, whom alive nobody had cared for.
他们实际上坐在同一张沙发上，因为默斯格罗夫夫人很乐意为他腾出空间。只有穆斯格罗夫夫人将他们分开。这确实不是一个微不足道的障碍。穆斯格罗夫夫人身材舒适，身材魁梧，天生更适合表达快乐和幽默，而不是温柔和多愁善感。虽然安妮苗条的身材和沉思的脸庞的激动可以被认为是完全被屏蔽了，但温特沃斯上尉的自制力应该得到一些赞扬，他注意到了她对儿子命运的巨大叹息，他的儿子活着没有人关心。

Personal size and mental sorrow have certainly no necessary proportions. A large bulky figure has as good a right to be in deep affliction, as the most graceful set of limbs in the world. But, fair or not fair, there are unbecoming conjunctions, which reason will patronize in vain— which taste cannot tolerate—which ridicule will seize.
个人的大小和精神上的悲伤当然没有必然的比例。一个庞大的身躯有权利陷入深深的痛苦，就像世界上最优美的四肢一样。但是，无论公平与否，总有一些不恰当的连词，理性会徒劳地光顾它们——品味无法容忍——嘲笑会抓住它们。

The Admiral, after taking two or three refreshing turns about the room with his hands behind him, being called to order by his wife, now came up to Captain Wentworth, and without any observation of what he might be interrupting, thinking only of his own thoughts, began with—
海军上将双手放在身后，在房间里绕了两三圈，在妻子的命令下，神清气爽地转了两三圈，现在走到温特沃斯上尉身边，没有注意到他可能会打扰什么，只想着自己的事情。想法，始于——

‘If you had been a week later at Lisbon, last spring, Frederick, you would have been asked to give a passage to Lady Mary Grierson and her daughters.’
“如果你去年春天一周后到达里斯本，弗雷德里克，你就会被要求为玛丽·格里尔森夫人和她的女儿们提供一条通道。”

‘Should I? I am glad I was not a week later then.’
'我是不是该？我很高兴我当时没有晚一周。”

The Admiral abused him for his want of gallantry. He defended himself; though professing that he would never willingly admit any ladies on board a ship of his, excepting for a ball, or a visit, which a few hours might comprehend.
海军上将因为他缺乏英勇而辱骂他。他为自己辩护；尽管他声称他绝不会愿意让任何女士登上他的船，除了舞会或拜访，这可能需要几个小时才能理解。

‘But, if I know myself,’ said he, ‘this is from no want of gallantry towards them. It is rather from feeling how impossible it is, with all one’s efforts, and all one’s sacrifices, to make the accommodations on board such as women ought to have. There can be no want of gallantry, Admiral, in rating the claims of women to every personal comfort high, and this is what I do. I hate to hear of women on board, or to see them on board; and no ship under my command shall ever convey a family of ladies anywhere, if I can help it.’
“但是，如果我了解我自己的话，”他说，“这是因为我对他们毫不客气。更确切地说，是因为感觉到，尽管付出了所有的努力和牺牲，要在船上提供女性应有的住宿条件是多么不可能。海军上将，在对女性的个人舒适度要求进行高度评价时，绝不能缺乏英勇，而这就是我所做的。我讨厌听到船上有女性，或者看到她们上船；如果我能帮助的话，我指挥下的任何一艘船都不会把一家人的女士运送到任何地方。

This brought his sister upon him.
这让他的妹妹来找他。

‘Oh! Frederick! But I cannot believe it of you. —All idle refinement! —Women may be as comfortable on board, as in the best house in England. I believe I have lived as much on board as most women, and I know nothing superior to the accommodations of a man-of-war. I declare I have not a comfort or an indulgence about me, even at Kellynch Hall,’ (with a kind bow to Anne), ‘beyond what I always had in most of the ships I have lived in; and they have been five altogether.’
'哦！弗雷德里克！但我无法相信你。 ——全是闲炼！ ——女性在船上可能会像在英国最好的房子里一样舒适。我相信我和大多数女人一样在船上生活过，而且我知道没有什么比战舰的住宿条件更好的了。我声明，即使在凯林奇大厅，我也没有得到任何安慰或放纵，”（向安妮善意地鞠了一躬），“超出了我在我住过的大多数船上所拥有的；他们一共有五个。”

‘Nothing to the purpose,’ replied her brother. ‘You were living with your husband, and were the only woman on board.’
“没有什么目的，”她哥哥回答道。 “你和你丈夫住在一起，是船上唯一的女性。”

‘But you, yourself, brought Mrs Harville, her sister, her cousin, and three children, round from Portsmouth to Plymouth. Where was this superfine, extraordinary sort of gallantry of yours then?’
“但是你自己带着哈维尔夫人、她的妹妹、她的表弟和三个孩子，从朴茨茅斯来到了普利茅斯。那时你的这种超凡脱俗的殷勤在哪里呢？

‘All merged in my friendship, Sophia. I would assist any brother officer’s wife that I could, and I would bring anything of Harville’s from the world’s end, if he wanted it. But do not imagine that I did not feel it an evil in itself.’
“一切都融入了我的友谊，索菲亚。我会尽我所能帮助任何兄弟军官的妻子，如果哈维尔想要的话，我会从世界的尽头带来他的任何东西。但不要以为我不觉得它本身是一种邪恶。

‘Depend upon it, they were all perfectly comfortable.’
“相信吧，他们都非常舒服。”

‘I might not like them the better for that perhaps. Such a number of women and children have no right to be comfortable on board.’
“也许我不会因此而更喜欢他们。如此多的妇女和儿童没有权利在船上过得舒适。”

‘My dear Frederick, you are talking quite idly. Pray, what would become of us poor sailors’ wives, who often want to be conveyed to one port or another, after our husbands, if everybody had your feelings?’
“我亲爱的弗雷德里克，你说得真无聊。请问，如果每个人都有你的感受，我们这些可怜的水手的妻子会变成什么样子，她们经常希望在我们的丈夫之后被转移到一个或另一个港口？

‘My feelings, you see, did not prevent my taking Mrs Harville and all her family to Plymouth.’
“你看，我的感情并没有阻止我带哈维尔夫人和她的家人去普利茅斯。”

‘But I hate to hear you talking so like a fine gentleman, and as if women were all fine ladies, instead of rational creatures. We none of us expect to be in smooth water all our days.’
“但我讨厌听你说话像个优雅的绅士，好像女人都是优雅的女士，而不是理性的生物。我们谁也不希望整天都一帆风顺。

‘Ah! my dear,’ said the Admiral, ‘when he had got a wife, he will sing a different tune. When he is married, if we have the good luck to live to another war, we shall see him do as you and I, and a great many others, have done. We shall have him very thankful to anybody that will bring him his wife.’
'啊！亲爱的，”海军上将说，“当他有了妻子后，他就会唱不同的调子。当他结婚时，如果我们有幸活到另一场战争，我们将看到他像你和我以及许多其他人所做的那样。我们会让他非常感谢任何愿意给他带来妻子的人。

‘Ay, that we shall.’
“嗯，我们会的。”

‘Now I have done,’ cried Captain Wentworth. ‘When once married people begin to attack me with,—‘Oh! you will think very differently, when you are married.’ I can only say, ‘No, I shall not;’ and then they say again, ‘Yes, you will,’ and there is an end of it.’
“现在我已经做到了，”温特沃斯上尉喊道。 “当结过婚的人开始攻击我时，‘哦！当你结婚时，你的想法会非常不同。”我只能说，“不，我不会；”然后他们又说，“是的，你会的，”然后事情就结束了。

He got up and moved away.
他起身走开。

‘What a great traveller you must have been, ma’am!’ said Mrs Musgrove to Mrs Croft.
“您一定是一位多么出色的旅行者，女士！”默斯格罗夫夫人对克罗夫特夫人说道。

‘Pretty well, ma’am in the fifteen years of my marriage; though many women have done more. I have crossed the Atlantic four times, and have been once to the East Indies, and back again, and only once; besides being in different places about home: Cork, and Lisbon, and Gibraltar. But I never went beyond the Streights, and never was in the West Indies. We do not call Bermuda or Bahama, you know, the West Indies.’
“很好，女士，我结婚已有十五年了；尽管许多女性做得更多。我曾四次横渡大西洋，去过一次东印度群岛，然后又回来了，但只去过一次；除了在家乡附近的不同地方：科克、里斯本和直布罗陀。但我从未走出过海峡，也从未去过西印度群岛。我们不称百慕大或巴哈马为西印度群岛。

Mrs Musgrove had not a word to say in dissent; she could not accuse herself of having ever called them anything in the whole course of her life.
默斯格罗夫夫人无言以对。她无法责怪自己在一生中都曾这样称呼过他们。

‘And I do assure you, ma’am,’ pursued Mrs Croft, ‘that nothing can exceed the accommodations of a man-of-war; I speak, you know, of the higher rates. When you come to a frigate, of course, you are more confined; though any reasonable woman may be perfectly happy in one of them; and I can safely say, that the happiest part of my life has been spent on board a ship. While we were together, you know, there was nothing to be feared. Thank God! I have always been blessed with excellent health, and no climate disagrees with me. A little disordered always the first twenty-four hours of going to sea, but never knew what sickness was afterwards. The only time I ever really suffered in body or mind, the only time that I ever fancied myself unwell, or had any ideas of danger, was the winter that I passed by myself at Deal, when the Admiral (Captain Croft then) was in the North Seas. I lived in perpetual fright at that time, and had all manner of imaginary complaints from not knowing what to do with myself, or when I should hear from him next; but as long as we could be together, nothing ever ailed me, and I never met with the smallest inconvenience.’
“我向您保证，女士，”克罗夫特夫人继续说道，“没有什么可以超越战舰的住宿空间；”你知道，我说的是更高的利率。当然，当你来到护卫舰时，你会受到更多的限制。尽管任何一个理智的女人都可能对其中之一感到非常高兴；我可以有把握地说，我一生中最快乐的时光是在船上度过的。你知道，当我们在一起时，没有什么可害怕的。感谢上帝！我一直很幸运，身体健康，没有什么气候不适合我。出海的前二十四小时总是有点紊乱，但后来就不知道是什么病了。我唯一一次在身体或精神上真正受苦，唯一一次我认为自己不舒服，或者有任何危险的想法，是我在迪尔独自度过的那个冬天，当时海军上将（当时的克罗夫特船长）在北海。那时我生活在永远的恐惧之中，并且有各种各样的想象中的抱怨，因为不知道自己该怎么办，也不知道什么时候才能收到他的下一次消息；但只要我们能在一起，我就不会感到任何困扰，我也从未遇到过哪怕是最小的不便。”

‘Aye, to be sure. Yes, indeed, oh yes! I am quite of your opinion, Mrs Croft,’ was Mrs Musgrove’s hearty answer. ‘There is nothing so bad as a separation. I am quite of your opinion. I know what it is, for Mr Musgrove always attends the assizes, and I am so glad when they are over, and he is safe back again.’
是的，当然。是的，确实如此，哦，是的！我完全同意你的意见，克罗夫特夫人。”穆斯格罗夫夫人衷心地回答道。 ‘没有什么比分离更糟糕的了。我很同意你的意见。我知道那是什么，因为穆斯格罗夫先生总是参加巡回审判，当审判结束时我很高兴他又安全回来了。

The evening ended with dancing. On its being proposed, Anne offered her services, as usual; and though her eyes would sometimes fill with tears as she sat at the instrument, she was extremely glad to be employed, and desired nothing in return but to be unobserved.
晚会在舞蹈中结束。当提议被提出时，安妮像往常一样提供了她的服务。尽管当她坐在仪器前时，她的眼睛有时会充满泪水，但她非常高兴能受雇，除了不被人注意外，她不希望得到任何回报。

It was a merry, joyous party, and no one seemed in higher spirits than Captain Wentworth. She felt that he had every thing to elevate him which general attention and deference, and especially the attention of all the young women, could do. The Miss Hayters, the females of the family of cousins already mentioned, were apparently admitted to the honour of being in love with him; and as for Henrietta and Louisa, they both seemed so entirely occupied by him, that nothing but the continued appearance of the most perfect good-will between themselves could have made it credible that they were not decided rivals. If he were a little spoilt by such universal, such eager admiration, who could wonder?
这是一场欢乐的聚会，似乎没有人比温特沃斯船长的精神状态更高。她觉得他拥有一切可以提升他地位的东西，这是普遍的关注和尊重，尤其是所有年轻女性的关注所能做到的。海特斯小姐，也就是前面提到过的堂兄弟姐妹，显然有幸爱上了他。至于亨丽埃塔和路易莎，她们似乎都完全被他占据了，除了她们之间持续表现出的最完美的善意之外，没有什么可以让人相信她们并不是决定性的竞争对手。如果他被如此普遍、如此热切的钦佩所宠坏了，谁会感到惊讶呢？

These were some of the thoughts which occupied Anne, while her fingers were mechanically at work, proceeding for half an hour together, equally without error, and without consciousness. Once she felt that he was looking at herself, observing her altered features, perhaps, trying to trace in them the ruins of the face which had once charmed him; and once she knew that he must have spoken of her; she was hardly aware of it, till she heard the answer; but then she was sure of his having asked his partner whether Miss Elliot never danced? The answer was, ‘Oh, no; never; she has quite given up dancing. She had rather play. She is never tired of playing.’ Once, too, he spoke to her. She had left the instrument on the dancing being over, and he had sat down to try to make out an air which he wished to give the Miss Musgroves an idea of. Unintentionally she returned to that part of the room; he saw her, and, instantly rising, said, with studied politeness—
这些是安妮的一些想法，而她的手指机械地工作着，一起进行了半个小时，同样没有错误，而且没有意识。有一次她觉得他在看着自己，观察她改变的容貌，也许是想在其中找出曾经让他着迷的那张脸的废墟。一旦她知道他一定是在谈论她；她几乎没有意识到这一点，直到她听到了答案。但后来她确信他问过他的舞伴埃利奥特小姐是否从来没有跳舞过？答案是：‘哦，不；绝不;她已经完全放弃跳舞了。她宁愿玩。她玩起来永远不会厌倦。”也有一次，他对她说过话。她把乐器留在了舞会结束的地方，他坐下来试着演奏一首他想让莫斯格罗夫小姐知道的曲子。她无意间又回到了房间的那个地方。他看到了她，立刻站起来，带着刻意的礼貌说道——

‘I beg your pardon, madam, this is your seat;’ and though she immediately drew back with a decided negative, he was not to be induced to sit down again.
“请您原谅，女士，这是您的座位；”尽管她立即以坚决的否定态度退了回去，但他并没有被诱导再次坐下。

Anne did not wish for more of such looks and speeches. His cold politeness, his ceremonious grace, were worse than anything.
安妮不希望再有更多这样的表情和言语。他的冷漠的礼貌，他的仪式性的优雅，比什么都糟糕。

Chapter 9
第9章

Captain Wentworth was come to Kellynch as to a home, to stay as long as he liked, being as thoroughly the object of the Admiral’s fraternal kindness as of his wife’s. He had intended, on first arriving, to proceed very soon into Shropshire, and visit the brother settled in that country, but the attractions of Uppercross induced him to put this off. There was so much of friendliness, and of flattery, and of everything most bewitching in his reception there; the old were so hospitable, the young so agreeable, that he could not but resolve to remain where he was, and take all the charms and perfections of Edward’s wife upon credit a little longer.
温特沃斯上尉来到凯林奇就像来到一个家一样，想住多久就住多久，海军上将和他妻子一样，都是他兄弟般仁慈的对象。刚抵达时，他本打算很快前往什罗普郡，拜访定居在该国的兄弟，但厄珀克罗斯的吸引力使他推迟了这一计划。他在那里受到的接待充满了友善、阿谀奉承和一切最令人着迷的东西。老人如此热情好客，年轻人如此和蔼可亲，他不得不决定留在原地，把爱德华妻子的所有魅力和完美都归功于一会儿。

It was soon Uppercross with him almost every day. The Musgroves could hardly be more ready to invite than he to come, particularly in the morning, when he had no companion at home, for the Admiral and Mrs Croft were generally out of doors together, interesting themselves in their new possessions, their grass, and their sheep, and dawdling about in a way not endurable to a third person, or driving out in a gig, lately added to their establishment.
很快厄普克罗斯几乎每天都和他在一起。穆斯格罗夫一家几乎不可能比他更愿意邀请他来了，特别是在早上，当他在家没有同伴时，因为海军上将和克罗夫特夫人通常一起在外面，对他们的新财产、他们的草地感兴趣，和他们的羊，以第三人无法忍受的方式闲逛，或者开着马车出去，最近增加了他们的设施。

Hitherto there had been but one opinion of Captain Wentworth among the Musgroves and their dependencies. It was unvarying, warm admiration everywhere; but this intimate footing was not more than established, when a certain Charles Hayter returned among them, to be a good deal disturbed by it, and to think Captain Wentworth very much in the way.
迄今为止，穆斯格罗夫家族及其属地对温特沃斯上尉只有一种看法。到处都是不变的、热烈的钦佩；但当查尔斯·海特（Charles Hayter）回到他们中间时，这种亲密的基础还没有建立起来，他对此感到非常不安，并认为温特沃斯船长非常妨碍。

Charles Hayter was the eldest of all the cousins, and a very amiable, pleasing young man, between whom and Henrietta there had been a considerable appearance of attachment previous to Captain Wentworth’s introduction. He was in orders; and having a curacy in the neighbourhood, where residence was not required, lived at his father’s house, only two miles from Uppercross. A short absence from home had left his fair one unguarded by his attentions at this critical period, and when he came back he had the pain of finding very altered manners, and of seeing Captain Wentworth.
查尔斯·海特是所有表兄弟中最年长的，是一个非常和蔼可亲、讨人喜欢的年轻人，在温特沃斯上尉介绍之前，他和亨丽埃塔之间就存在着相当大的依恋。他听从命令；他在附近有一位牧师，不需要居住，所以住在他父亲的家里，距离厄普克罗斯只有两英里。短暂的离家让他的美人在这个关键时期没有受到他的关注，当他回来时，他发现自己的举止发生了很大的变化，并看到了温特沃斯上尉，这让他感到痛苦。

Mrs Musgrove and Mrs Hayter were sisters. They had each had money, but their marriages had made a material difference in their degree of consequence. Mr Hayter had some property of his own, but it was insignificant compared with Mr Musgrove’s; and while the Musgroves were in the first class of society in the country, the young Hayters would, from their parents’ inferior, retired, and unpolished way of living, and their own defective education, have been hardly in any class at all, but for their connexion with Uppercross, this eldest son of course excepted, who had chosen to be a scholar and a gentleman, and who was very superior in cultivation and manners to all the rest.
穆斯格罗夫夫人和海特夫人是姐妹。他们都有钱，但他们的婚姻对他们的影响程度产生了重大影响。海特先生自己也有一些财产，但与穆斯格罗夫先生的财产相比就微不足道了。虽然穆斯格罗夫一家在这个国家属于上等社会，但年轻的海特夫妇由于父母低下、退休、粗俗的生活方式，以及他们自己有缺陷的教育，几乎根本不属于任何阶层，但是因为他们与厄普克罗斯的关系，当然，这个长子除外，他选择成为一名学者和绅士，在修养和举止上都比其他人都优越。

The two families had always been on excellent terms, there being no pride on one side, and no envy on the other, and only such a consciousness of superiority in the Miss Musgroves, as made them pleased to improve their cousins. Charles’s attentions to Henrietta had been observed by her father and mother without any disapprobation. ‘It would not be a great match for her; but if Henrietta liked him,’— and Henrietta did seem to like him.
两家人一直关系很好，一方面没有骄傲，另一方面也没有嫉妒，只有默斯格罗夫小姐的一种优越感，让他们很高兴能够改善他们的表兄弟。查尔斯对亨丽埃塔的关注得到了亨丽埃塔父母的注视，没有任何异议。 “这对她来说不是一个很好的匹配；”但如果亨利埃塔喜欢他的话，”——而亨利埃塔似乎确实喜欢他。

Henrietta fully thought so herself, before Captain Wentworth came; but from that time Cousin Charles had been very much forgotten.
在温特沃斯船长到来之前，亨丽埃塔本人也完全这么认为。但从那时起，查尔斯表弟就被人们遗忘了。

Which of the two sisters was preferred by Captain Wentworth was as yet quite doubtful, as far as Anne’s observation reached. Henrietta was perhaps the prettiest, Louisa had the higher spirits; and she knew not now, whether the more gentle or the more lively character were most likely to attract him.
就安妮的观察而言，温特沃斯船长更喜欢这两姐妹中的哪一个还很可疑。亨利埃塔也许是最漂亮的，而路易莎则精神抖擞。而她现在也不知道，到底是温柔一点的性格，还是活泼一点的性格最容易吸引他。

Mr and Mrs Musgrove, either from seeing little, or from an entire confidence in the discretion of both their daughters, and of all the young men who came near them, seemed to leave everything to take its chance. There was not the smallest appearance of solicitude or remark about them in the Mansion-house; but it was different at the Cottage: the young couple there were more disposed to speculate and wonder; and Captain Wentworth had not been above four or five times in the Miss Musgroves’ company, and Charles Hayter had but just reappeared, when Anne had to listen to the opinions of her brother and sister, as to which was the one liked best. Charles gave it for Louisa, Mary for Henrietta, but quite agreeing that to have him marry either could be extremely delightful.
默斯格罗夫先生和夫人，要么是因为见得很少，要么是因为对他们两个女儿以及所有接近他们的年轻人的判断力充满信心，似乎放弃了一切去冒险。宅邸里没有对他们表现出丝毫的关心或议论。但小屋的情况有所不同：那里的年轻夫妇更倾向于猜测和好奇；温特沃斯上尉在穆斯格罗夫斯小姐的陪伴下也不过四五次，而查尔斯·海特刚刚又出现了，这时安妮必须听取她哥哥和姐姐的意见，看哪一个最好。查尔斯把它送给了路易莎，玛丽送给了亨丽埃塔，但他非常同意让他娶任何一个人都会非常令人高兴。

Charles ‘had never seen a pleasanter man in his life; and from what he had once heard Captain Wentworth himself say, was very sure that he had not made less than twenty thousand pounds by the war. Here was a fortune at once; besides which, there would be the chance of what might be done in any future war; and he was sure Captain Wentworth was as likely a man to distinguish himself as any officer in the navy. Oh! it would be a capital match for either of his sisters.’
查尔斯“一生中从未见过比他更令人愉快的人”；根据他曾经听温特沃斯上尉亲口所说的，他非常确定他在战争中赚到的钱不少于两万英镑。这一下子就成了一笔财富；除此之外，还有在未来的战争中可能采取的行动的可能性；他确信温特沃斯上尉和任何海军军官一样有可能成为杰出人物。哦！这对他的两个姐妹来说都是一场绝妙的比赛。

‘Upon my word it would,’ replied Mary. ‘Dear me! If he should rise to any very great honours! If he should ever be made a baronet! ‘Lady Wentworth’ sounds very well. That would be a noble thing, indeed, for Henrietta! She would take place of me then, and Henrietta would not dislike that. Sir Frederick and Lady Wentworth! It would be but a new creation, however, and I never think much of your new creations.’
“我保证会的，”玛丽回答道。 '亲爱的我！如果他能获得任何非常伟大的荣誉！如果他应该被封为男爵就好了！ “温特沃斯夫人”听起来非常好。对于亨利埃塔来说，这确实是一件崇高的事情！那时她就会取代我，亨利埃塔不会不喜欢这样。弗雷德里克爵士和温特沃斯夫人！然而，这只是一个新的创作，我从来没有太看重你的新创作。

It suited Mary best to think Henrietta the one preferred on the very account of Charles Hayter, whose pretensions she wished to see put an end to. She looked down very decidedly upon the Hayters, and thought it would be quite a misfortune to have the existing connection between the families renewed—very sad for herself and her children.
玛丽最适合认为亨利埃塔是因为查尔斯·海特而更喜欢的人，她希望看到查尔斯·海特的自命不凡。她非常看不起海特一家，并认为两家人之间现有的联系重新建立起来将是一种不幸——对她自己和她的孩子来说非常悲伤。

‘You know,’ said she, ‘I cannot think him at all a fit match for Henrietta; and considering the alliances which the Musgroves have made, she has no right to throw herself away. I do not think any young woman has a right to make a choice that may be disagreeable and inconvenient to the principal part of her family, and be giving bad connections to those who have not been used to them. And, pray, who is Charles Hayter? Nothing but a country curate. A most improper match for Miss Musgrove of Uppercross.’
“你知道，”她说，“我认为他根本不适合亨丽埃塔；考虑到穆斯格罗夫家族所建立的联盟，她没有权利抛弃自己。我认为任何年轻女性都没有权利做出可能令家庭主要成员感到不愉快和不方便的选择，并与那些不习惯的人建立不良关系。请问，查尔斯·海特是谁？除了乡村牧师之外什么也没有。这对厄珀克罗斯的穆斯格罗夫小姐来说是最不合适的搭配。

Her husband, however, would not agree with her here; for besides having a regard for his cousin, Charles Hayter was an eldest son, and he saw things as an eldest son himself.
然而，她的丈夫并不同意她的观点。因为查尔斯·海特不仅尊重他的表弟，而且还是长子，他自己也以长子的角度看待事物。

‘Now you are taking nonsense, Mary,’ was therefore his answer. ‘It would not be a great match for Henrietta, but Charles has a very fair chance, through the Spicers, of getting something from the Bishop in the course of a year or two; and you will please to remember, that he is the eldest son; whenever my uncle dies, he steps into very pretty property. The estate at Winthrop is not less than two hundred and fifty acres, besides the farm near Taunton, which is some of the best land in the country. I grant you, that any of them but Charles would be a very shocking match for Henrietta, and indeed it could not be; he is the only one that could be possible; but he is a very good-natured, good sort of a fellow; and whenever Winthrop comes into his hands, he will make a different sort of place of it, and live in a very different sort of way; and with that property, he will never be a contemptible man—good, freehold property. No, no; Henrietta might do worse than marry Charles Hayter; and if she has him, and Louisa can get Captain Wentworth, I shall be very well satisfied.’
“现在你在胡说八道，玛丽，”因此他的回答是。 “这对亨利埃塔来说不是一场伟大的比赛，但查尔斯有一个非常公平的机会，通过斯派塞队，在一两年内从主教那里得到一些东西；请记住，他是长子；每当我叔叔去世时，他都会拥有非常漂亮的财产。温思罗普的庄园面积不少于两百五十英亩，加上陶顿附近的农场，这是全国最好的土地之一。我同意你说，除了查尔斯之外，他们中的任何一个都会对亨丽埃塔来说是一个非常令人震惊的匹配，事实上这是不可能的。他是唯一有可能的人；但他是一个脾气很好的好人。每当温斯罗普落入他手中时，他都会把它变成一种不同的地方，并以一种非常不同的方式生活。有了这份财产，他就永远不会成为一个可鄙的人——良好的、永久业权的财产。不，不;亨丽埃塔可能比嫁给查尔斯·海特更糟糕。如果她得到了他，而路易莎也能得到温特沃斯上尉，我会非常满意。

‘Charles may say what he pleases,’ cried Mary to Anne, as soon as he was out of the room, ‘but it would be shocking to have Henrietta marry Charles Hayter; a very bad thing for her, and still worse for me; and therefore it is very much to be wished that Captain Wentworth may soon put him quite out of her head, and I have very little doubt that he has. She took hardly any notice of Charles Hayter yesterday. I wish you had been there to see her behaviour. And as to Captain Wentworth’s liking Louisa as well as Henrietta, it is nonsense to say so; for he certainly does like Henrietta a great deal the best. But Charles is so positive! I wish you had been with us yesterday, for then you might have decided between us; and I am sure you would have thought as I did, unless you had been determined to give it against me.’
“查尔斯想说什么就说什么，”他一走出房间，玛丽就对安妮喊道，“但是如果亨丽埃塔嫁给了查尔斯·海特，那就太令人震惊了；”对她来说这是一件非常糟糕的事情，对我来说更糟糕；因此，我非常希望温特沃斯船长能很快把他从她的脑海中完全抹去，我毫不怀疑他已经做到了。昨天她几乎没有注意到查尔斯·海特。我希望你当时在场看到她的行为。至于温特沃斯船长既喜欢路易莎又喜欢亨丽埃塔，这是无稽之谈；因为他确实非常喜欢亨利埃塔。但查尔斯却如此积极！我希望你昨天和我们在一起，因为那时你可能会在我们之间做出决定；我相信你也会像我一样想，除非你决心要反对我。

A dinner at Mr Musgrove’s had been the occasion when all these things should have been seen by Anne; but she had staid at home, under the mixed plea of a headache of her own, and some return of indisposition in little Charles. She had thought only of avoiding Captain Wentworth; but an escape from being appealed to as umpire was now added to the advantages of a quiet evening.
在默斯格罗夫先生家的一次晚宴上，安妮本应看到这一切。但她一直待在家里，借口是她自己头疼，加上小查尔斯又有些不舒服。她只想避开温特沃斯船长；但她并没有这么做。但现在，除了避免被请去当裁判之外，还有一个安静的夜晚的好处。

As to Captain Wentworth’s views, she deemed it of more consequence that he should know his own mind early enough not to be endangering the happiness of either sister, or impeaching his own honour, than that he should prefer Henrietta to Louisa, or Louisa to Henrietta. Either of them would, in all probability, make him an affectionate, good-humoured wife. With regard to Charles Hayter, she had delicacy which must be pained by any lightness of conduct in a well-meaning young woman, and a heart to sympathize in any of the sufferings it occasioned; but if Henrietta found herself mistaken in the nature of her feelings, the alternation could not be understood too soon.
至于温特沃斯上尉的观点，她认为更重要的是，他应该尽早了解自己的想法，以免危及姐妹俩的幸福，或弹劾自己的荣誉，而不是他应该选择亨利埃塔而不是路易莎，或者选择路易莎而不是亨利埃塔。 。他们中的任何一个都很有可能使他成为一个深情、幽默的妻子。至于查尔斯·海特，她有一颗温柔的心，一个善意的年轻女子的任何轻率行为都会让她感到痛苦，她也有一颗同情由此引起的任何痛苦的心。但如果亨利埃塔发现自己误解了自己感情的本质，那么就不能太早理解这种转变。

Charles Hayter had met with much to disquiet and mortify him in his cousin’s behaviour. She had too old a regard for him to be so wholly estranged as might in two meetings extinguish every past hope, and leave him nothing to do but to keep away from Uppercross: but there was such a change as became very alarming, when such a man as Captain Wentworth was to be regarded as the probable cause. He had been absent only two Sundays, and when they parted, had left her interested, even to the height of his wishes, in his prospect of soon quitting his present curacy, and obtaining that of Uppercross instead. It had then seemed the object nearest her heart, that Dr Shirley, the rector, who for more than forty years had been zealously discharging all the duties of his office, but was now growing too infirm for many of them, should be quite fixed on engaging a curate; should make his curacy quite as good as he could afford, and should give Charles Hayter the promise of it. The advantage of his having to come only to Uppercross, instead of going six miles another way; of his having, in every respect, a better curacy; of his belonging to their dear Dr Shirley, and of dear, good Dr Shirley’s being relieved from the duty which he could no longer get through without most injurious fatigue, had been a great deal, even to Louisa, but had been almost everything to Henrietta. When he came back, alas! the zeal of the business was gone by. Louisa could not listen at all to his account of a conversation which he had just held with Dr Shirley: she was at a window, looking out for Captain Wentworth; and even Henrietta had at best only a divided attention to give, and seemed to have forgotten all the former doubt and solicitude of the negotiation.
查尔斯·海特在他表弟的行为中遇到了很多让他不安和羞辱的事情。她对他的感情太深了，不可能如此完全疏远，因为两次见面可能会熄灭所有过去的希望，让他除了远离厄普克罗斯之外别无他法：但是有这样一个变化，变得非常令人震惊，当这样一个人温特沃斯船长被认为是可能的原因。他只缺席了两个星期天，当他们分手时，她对他很快辞去现任教区牧师职务，转而获得厄珀克罗斯的教区职务的前景充满了兴趣，甚至达到了他的愿望的高度。当时，她最关心的事情似乎是，校长雪利博士四十多年来一直热心地履行着他办公室的所有职责，但现在对他们中的许多人来说已经变得太虚弱了，他应该完全专注于聘请牧师；应该尽其所能地提供他的牧师服务，并且应该向查尔斯·海特做出这样的承诺。这样做的好处是他只需要到达厄普克罗斯，而不用走另一条路六英里；他在各个方面都拥有更好的神职人员；他属于他们亲爱的雪利医生，亲爱的、善良的雪利医生不再承担他在没有最有害的疲劳的情况下就无法完成的职责，这对路易莎来说是一件大事，但对亨利埃塔来说几乎是一切。当他回来时，唉！生意的热情已经消失了。路易莎根本无法听他讲述他刚刚与雪莉医生的谈话：她站在窗前，寻找温特沃斯上尉；就连亨利埃塔也最多只能分心，似乎已经忘记了之前谈判中的所有疑虑和担忧。

‘Well, I am very glad indeed: but I always thought you would have it; I always thought you sure. It did not appear to me that—in short, you know, Dr Shirley must have a curate, and you had secured his promise. Is he coming, Louisa?’
“嗯，我确实很高兴：但我一直以为你会拥有它；我一直以为你确定。我不认为——简而言之，你知道，雪莉博士一定有一位副牧师，而你已经兑现了他的承诺。他会来吗，路易莎？

One morning, very soon after the dinner at the Musgroves, at which Anne had not been present, Captain Wentworth walked into the drawing-room at the Cottage, where were only herself and the little invalid Charles, who was lying on the sofa.
一天早上，在穆斯格罗夫家吃完晚宴后不久，安妮没有在场，温特沃斯船长走进小屋的客厅，那里只有她自己和躺在沙发上的病弱的小查尔斯。

The surprise of finding himself almost alone with Anne Elliot, deprived his manners of their usual composure: he started, and could only say, ‘I thought the Miss Musgroves had been here: Mrs Musgrove told me I should find them here,’ before he walked to the window to recollect himself, and feel how he ought to behave.
惊讶地发现自己几乎单独和安妮·埃利奥特在一起，这让他的举止失去了平常的镇定：他吃了一惊，只能说，“我以为穆斯格罗夫小姐已经在这里了：穆斯格罗夫夫人告诉我，我应该在这里找到他们，”然后他就开始说话了。走到窗前回想自己，思考自己应该怎样做。

‘They are up stairs with my sister: they will be down in a few moments, I dare say,’ had been Anne’s reply, in all the confusion that was natural; and if the child had not called her to come and do something for him, she would have been out of the room the next moment, and released Captain Wentworth as well as herself.
“他们和我妹妹在楼上：我敢说，他们一会儿就会下来，”安妮回答道，她的困惑是很自然的。如果不是孩子叫她过来帮他做点什么，她下一刻就会走出房间，把温特沃斯船长和她自己一起放了出来。

He continued at the window; and after calmly and politely saying, ‘I hope the little boy is better,’ was silent.
他继续站在窗前。平静而礼貌地说“我希望小男孩好起来”后，就沉默了。

She was obliged to kneel down by the sofa, and remain there to satisfy her patient; and thus they continued a few minutes, when, to her very great satisfaction, she heard some other person crossing the little vestibule. She hoped, on turning her head, to see the master of the house; but it proved to be one much less calculated for making matters easy—Charles Hayter, probably not at all better pleased by the sight of Captain Wentworth than Captain Wentworth had been by the sight of Anne.
她不得不跪在沙发旁，留在那里让病人满意。他们就这样持续了几分钟，令她非常满意的是，她听到另一个人穿过小前厅。她一转头，希望能看到这栋房子的主人。但事实证明，这并不是一个为了让事情变得简单而精心设计的人——查尔斯·海特，可能并不比温特沃斯船长看到安妮更高兴。

She only attempted to say, ‘How do you do? Will you not sit down? The others will be here presently.’
她只是试图说：‘你好吗？你不坐下吗？其他人马上就到了。

Captain Wentworth, however, came from his window, apparently not ill-disposed for conversation; but Charles Hayter soon put an end to his attempts by seating himself near the table, and taking up the newspaper; and Captain Wentworth returned to his window.
然而，温特沃斯上尉从窗口走了出来，显然并不不愿意交谈。但查尔斯·海特很快就结束了他的尝试，他坐在桌子旁边，拿起了报纸。温特沃斯上尉回到了窗前。

Another minute brought another addition. The younger boy, a remarkable stout, forward child, of two years old, having got the door opened for him by some one without, made his determined appearance among them, and went straight to the sofa to see what was going on, and put in his claim to anything good that might be giving away.
又一分钟又带来了另一个补充。那个小男孩，一个两岁大的孩子，是一个非常粗壮、向前的孩子，外面有人为他打开了门，他在他们中间做出了坚定的样子，径直走到沙发上看看发生了什么事，然后把门放了出来。他声称拥有任何可能会被放弃的好东西。

There being nothing to eat, he could only have some play; and as his aunt would not let him tease his sick brother, he began to fasten himself upon her, as she knelt, in such a way that, busy as she was about Charles, she could not shake him off. She spoke to him, ordered, entreated, and insisted in vain. Once she did contrive to push him away, but the boy had the greater pleasure in getting upon her back again directly.
没有东西吃，他只能玩；由于他的姨妈不让他取笑他生病的弟弟，当她跪下时，他开始紧紧地靠在她身上，尽管她忙着照顾查尔斯，但她却无法摆脱他。她对他说话、命令、恳求、坚持，但都是徒劳。有一次她确实想把他推开，但男孩更高兴的是直接再次爬到她的背上。

‘Walter,’ said she, ‘get down this moment. You are extremely troublesome. I am very angry with you.’
“沃尔特，”她说，“现在就下来。你真是太麻烦了。我对你很生气。

‘Walter,’ cried Charles Hayter, ‘why do you not do as you are bid? Do not you hear your aunt speak? Come to me, Walter, come to cousin Charles.’
“沃尔特，”查尔斯·海特喊道，“你为什么不按照吩咐去做呢？你没听见阿姨说话吗？到我这里来，沃尔特，到查尔斯表弟那里来。”

But not a bit did Walter stir.
但沃尔特却纹丝不动。

In another moment, however, she found herself in the state of being released from him; some one was taking him from her, though he had bent down her head so much, that his little sturdy hands were unfastened from around her neck, and he was resolutely borne away, before she knew that Captain Wentworth had done it.
然而下一刻，她却发现自己已经脱离了他。有人把他从她身边带走，尽管他把她的头低得那么厉害，以至于他那双结实的小手从她脖子上松开了，在她意识到温特沃斯船长已经做到了之前，他被坚决地带走了。

Her sensations on the discovery made her perfectly speechless. She could not even thank him. She could only hang over little Charles, with most disordered feelings. His kindness in stepping forward to her relief, the manner, the silence in which it had passed, the little particulars of the circumstance, with the conviction soon forced on her by the noise he was studiously making with the child, that he meant to avoid hearing her thanks, and rather sought to testify that her conversation was the last of his wants, produced such a confusion of varying, but very painful agitation, as she could not recover from, till enabled by the entrance of Mary and the Miss Musgroves to make over her little patient to their cares, and leave the room. She could not stay. It might have been an opportunity of watching the loves and jealousies of the four— they were now altogether; but she could stay for none of it. It was evident that Charles Hayter was not well inclined towards Captain Wentworth. She had a strong impression of his having said, in a vext tone of voice, after Captain Wentworth’s interference, ‘You ought to have minded me, Walter; I told you not to teaze your aunt;’ and could comprehend his regretting that Captain Wentworth should do what he ought to have done himself. But neither Charles Hayter’s feelings, nor anybody’s feelings, could interest her, till she had a little better arranged her own. She was ashamed of herself, quite ashamed of being so nervous, so overcome by such a trifle; but so it was, and it required a long application of solitude and reflection to recover her.
这一发现让她完全说不出话来。她甚至无法感谢他。她只能怀着极其混乱的心情挂在小查尔斯身上。他善意地走上前去安慰她，他的态度、沉默、当时情况的细节，以及他故意对孩子发出的噪音，很快就让她确信，他打算避免发生这样的事情。听到她的感谢，并试图证明她的谈话是他最后的愿望，产生了如此混乱的变化，但非常痛苦的激动，因为她无法恢复，直到玛丽和穆斯格罗夫小姐的到来才使她能够恢复过来。让他们照顾她的小病人，然后离开房间。她不能留下来。这或许是一个观察四个人的爱与嫉妒的机会——他们现在已经在一起了；但她不能留下来。很明显，查尔斯·海特对温特沃斯上尉不太感兴趣。她对他在温特沃斯上尉的干扰下用平缓的语气说的印象很深：“你应该介意我，沃尔特;我告诉过你不要取笑你的姨妈；”并且可以理解他对温特沃斯上尉做了他自己应该做的事情感到遗憾。但无论是查尔斯·海特的感情，还是任何人的感情，都无法引起她的兴趣，直到她更好地安排自己的感情。她为自己感到羞愧，为这样的小事而如此紧张、如此不知所措，感到十分羞愧。但事实就是如此，她需要长时间的孤独和反思才能恢复过来。

Chapter 10
第10章

Other opportunities of making her observations could not fail to occur. Anne had soon been in company with all the four together often enough to have an opinion, though too wise to acknowledge as much at home, where she knew it would have satisfied neither husband nor wife; for while she considered Louisa to be rather the favourite, she could not but think, as far as she might dare to judge from memory and experience, that Captain Wentworth was not in love with either. They were more in love with him; yet there it was not love. It was a little fever of admiration; but it might, probably must, end in love with some. Charles Hayter seemed aware of being slighted, and yet Henrietta had sometimes the air of being divided between them. Anne longed for the power of representing to them all what they were about, and of pointing out some of the evils they were exposing themselves to. She did not attribute guile to any. It was the highest satisfaction to her to believe Captain Wentworth not in the least aware of the pain he was occasioning. There was no triumph, no pitiful triumph in his manner. He had, probably, never heard, and never thought of any claims of Charles Hayter. He was only wrong in accepting the attentions (for accepting must be the word) of two young women at once.
她不可能没有其他机会进行观察。安妮很快就经常与这四个人在一起，足以发表自己的意见，尽管她太聪明了，没有在家里承认那么多，因为她知道这不会让丈夫和妻子感到满意；但她知道，这会让丈夫和妻子都满意。因为虽然她认为路易莎是最喜欢的，但据她敢于根据记忆和经验判断，她不得不认为温特沃斯上尉并不爱这两个人。他们更爱他；但那不是爱。这是一种有点狂热的钦佩；但它可能，也许必须，最终爱上某些人。查尔斯·海特似乎意识到自己受到了轻视，但亨利埃塔有时却表现出一种被他们分裂的气氛。安妮渴望有能力向他们展示他们的全部情况，并指出他们所面临的一些邪恶。她并没有认为任何人都是狡诈的。相信温特沃斯上尉丝毫没有意识到他所造成的痛苦，这对她来说是最大的满足。他的态度中没有任何胜利，没有可怜的胜利。他很可能从未听说过，也从未想过查尔斯·海特的任何说法。他唯一的错误就是同时接受了两个年轻女子的关注（因为接受一定是这个词）。

After a short struggle, however, Charles Hayter seemed to quit the field. Three days had passed without his coming once to Uppercross; a most decided change. He had even refused one regular invitation to dinner; and having been found on the occasion by Mr Musgrove with some large books before him, Mr and Mrs Musgrove were sure all could not be right, and talked, with grave faces, of his studying himself to death. It was Mary’s hope and belief that he had received a positive dismissal from Henrietta, and her husband lived under the constant dependence of seeing him to-morrow. Anne could only feel that Charles Hayter was wise.
然而，经过短暂的挣扎后，查尔斯·海特似乎退出了这个领域。三天过去了，他一次也没来过厄普克罗斯。一个最决定性的改变。他甚至拒绝了一次定期的晚宴邀请。穆斯格罗夫先生当时发现他面前摆着几本大书，穆斯格罗夫先生和夫人确信一切都不对劲，便板着脸谈论他的学习至死不渝。玛丽希望并相信他已经得到了亨丽埃塔的积极解雇，而她的丈夫则一直依赖于明天才能见到他。安妮只觉得查尔斯·海特很明智。

One morning, about this time Charles Musgrove and Captain Wentworth being gone a-shooting together, as the sisters in the Cottage were sitting quietly at work, they were visited at the window by the sisters from the Mansion-house.
一天早上，大约在这个时候，查尔斯·默斯格罗夫和温特沃斯上尉一起去打猎，当小屋里的姐妹们安静地坐着工作时，豪宅里的姐妹们在窗边拜访了她们。

It was a very fine November day, and the Miss Musgroves came through the little grounds, and stopped for no other purpose than to say, that they were going to take a long walk, and therefore concluded Mary could not like to go with them; and when Mary immediately replied, with some jealousy at not being supposed a good walker, ‘Oh, yes, I should like to join you very much, I am very fond of a long walk;’ Anne felt persuaded, by the looks of the two girls, that it was precisely what they did not wish, and admired again the sort of necessity which the family habits seemed to produce, of everything being to be communicated, and everything being to be done together, however undesired and inconvenient. She tried to dissuade Mary from going, but in vain; and that being the case, thought it best to accept the Miss Musgroves’ much more cordial invitation to herself to go likewise, as she might be useful in turning back with her sister, and lessening the interference in any plan of their own.
那是十一月的一个非常晴朗的日子，默斯格罗夫小姐穿过这片小花园，停下来没有其他目的，只是说，她们要出去走很长一段路，因此得出结论，玛丽不想和她们一起去。当玛丽立即回答时，带着一些嫉妒，因为她不被认为是一个善于散步的人，“哦，是的，我非常想加入你，我非常喜欢长途散步。”安妮被她的表情说服了。两个女孩，这正是她们所不希望的，并再次钦佩家庭习惯似乎产生的那种必要性，一切都要沟通，一切都要一起做，无论多么不受欢迎和不方便。她试图劝阻玛丽不要去，但没有成功。既然如此，她认为最好接受莫斯格罗夫小姐更诚挚的邀请，让她自己也去，因为她可能有助于与她的妹妹一起回去，并减少对他们自己的任何计划的干扰。

‘I cannot imagine why they should suppose I should not like a long walk,’ said Mary, as she went up stairs. ‘Everybody is always supposing that I am not a good walker; and yet they would not have been pleased, if we had refused to join them. When people come in this manner on purpose to ask us, how can one say no?’
“我无法想象为什么他们会认为我不喜欢长途散步，”玛丽上楼时说道。 “大家总是认为我走路不好；然而，如果我们拒绝加入他们，他们就不会高兴。当人们特意以这种方式来询问我们时，怎么能拒绝呢？

Just as they were setting off, the gentlemen returned. They had taken out a young dog, who had spoilt their sport, and sent them back early. Their time and strength, and spirits, were, therefore, exactly ready for this walk, and they entered into it with pleasure. Could Anne have foreseen such a junction, she would have staid at home; but, from some feelings of interest and curiosity, she fancied now that it was too late to retract, and the whole six set forward together in the direction chosen by the Miss Musgroves, who evidently considered the walk as under their guidance.
正当他们出发时，先生们回来了。他们取出了一只破坏了他们的运动的小狗，并提前将他们送了回来。因此，他们的时间、精力和精神都已经为这次步行做好了充分的准备，并且他们愉快地踏入了其中。如果安妮能预见到这样的交集，她就会呆在家里了；但是，出于某种兴趣和好奇，她觉得现在撤回已经太晚了，六个人一起朝着穆斯格罗夫小姐选择的方向前进，穆斯格罗夫小姐显然认为这次步行是在她们的指导下进行的。

Anne’s object was, not to be in the way of anybody; and where the narrow paths across the fields made many separations necessary, to keep with her brother and sister. Her pleasure in the walk must arise from the exercise and the day, from the view of the last smiles of the year upon the tawny leaves, and withered hedges, and from repeating to herself some few of the thousand poetical descriptions extant of autumn, that season of peculiar and inexhaustible influence on the mind of taste and tenderness, that season which had drawn from every poet, worthy of being read, some attempt at description, or some lines of feeling. She occupied her mind as much as possible in such like musings and quotations; but it was not possible, that when within reach of Captain Wentworth’s conversation with either of the Miss Musgroves, she should not try to hear it; yet she caught little very remarkable. It was mere lively chat, such as any young persons, on an intimate footing, might fall into. He was more engaged with Louisa than with Henrietta. Louisa certainly put more forward for his notice than her sister. This distinction appeared to increase, and there was one speech of Louisa’s which struck her. After one of the many praises of the day, which were continually bursting forth, Captain Wentworth added: —
安妮的目标是不妨碍任何人。穿过田野的狭窄小路使她不得不多次分开，以便与她的兄弟姐妹保持联系。她散步的乐趣一定来自于锻炼和白天，来自于看到黄褐色的树叶和枯萎的树篱上一年中最后的微笑，来自于对自己重复现存的数千个关于秋天的诗意描述中的一些，这个季节对品味和温柔的心灵产生独特的、无穷无尽的影响，这个季节来自每一位诗人，值得一读，一些描述的尝试，或一些感情的线条。她尽可能地全神贯注于沉思和引用之类的事情。但她不可能在温特沃斯上尉与莫斯格罗夫小姐谈话的范围内时不试图听到。但她并没有发现什么非常值得注意的地方。这只是一场热烈的聊天，就像任何处于亲密关系的年轻人可能会陷入的那样。他对路易莎的兴趣比对亨利埃塔的兴趣要大。路易莎当然比她姐姐提出更多的要求来引起他的注意。这种区别似乎越来越明显，路易莎的一次演讲给她留下了深刻的印象。在当天不断涌现的众多赞美之一之后，温特沃斯上尉补充道：

‘What glorious weather for the Admiral and my sister! They meant to take a long drive this morning; perhaps we may hail them from some of these hills. They talked of coming into this side of the country. I wonder whereabouts they will upset to-day. Oh! it does happen very often, I assure you; but my sister makes nothing of it; she would as lieve be tossed out as not.’
“对于海军上将和我的妹妹来说，天气真是太好了！他们打算今天早上开车长途旅行；也许我们可以从其中一些山上向他们致敬。他们谈到要来到这个国家的这一边。我想知道他们今天会在哪里感到不安。哦！我向你保证，这种情况确实经常发生；但我姐姐却对此不以为然；她宁愿被扔出去。

‘Ah! You make the most of it, I know,’ cried Louisa, ‘but if it were really so, I should do just the same in her place. If I loved a man, as she loves the Admiral, I would always be with him, nothing should ever separate us, and I would rather be overturned by him, than driven safely by anybody else.’
'啊！我知道，你充分利用了它，”路易莎喊道，“但如果真是这样，我也应该代替她做同样的事情。如果我爱一个男人，就像她爱海军上将一样，我会永远和他在一起，没有任何东西可以将我们分开，我宁愿被他推翻，也不愿被其他人安全地驾驶。

It was spoken with enthusiasm.
说的很热情。

‘Had you?’ cried he, catching the same tone; ‘I honour you!’ And there was silence between them for a little while.
“你有吗？”他用同样的语气喊道。 “我向你致敬！” 他们之间沉默了一会儿。

Anne could not immediately fall into a quotation again. The sweet scenes of autumn were for a while put by, unless some tender sonnet, fraught with the apt analogy of the declining year, with declining happiness, and the images of youth and hope, and spring, all gone together, blessed her memory. She roused herself to say, as they struck by order into another path, ‘Is not this one of the ways to Winthrop?’ But nobody heard, or, at least, nobody answered her.
安妮无法立即再次陷入引用。秋天的甜蜜景象暂时被遗忘了，除非有一首温柔的十四行诗，充满了对衰退之年的恰当比喻，与衰退的幸福，以及青春、希望和春天的形象，所有这些都一起消失了，祝福她的记忆。当他们按照命令进入另一条路时，她振作起来说：“这不是去温斯罗普的路之一吗？”但没有人听到，或者至少没有人回答她。

Winthrop, however, or its environs—for young men are, sometimes to be met with, strolling about near home—was their destination; and after another half mile of gradual ascent through large enclosures, where the ploughs at work, and the fresh made path spoke the farmer counteracting the sweets of poetical despondence, and meaning to have spring again, they gained the summit of the most considerable hill, which parted Uppercross and Winthrop, and soon commanded a full view of the latter, at the foot of the hill on the other side.
然而，温思罗普或其周边地区——对于年轻人来说，有时会在家里附近闲逛——是他们的目的地。又经过半英里的逐渐上升，穿过大围场，那里的犁在工作，新修的路讲述着农民抵消诗意沮丧的甜蜜，并打算再次迎来春天，他们到达了最壮丽的山峰的顶峰，它把厄普克罗斯和温思罗普分开，很快就可以看到另一边山脚下的后者的全景。

Winthrop, without beauty and without dignity, was stretched before them an indifferent house, standing low, and hemmed in by the barns and buildings of a farm-yard.
温思罗普既不美丽，又没有尊严，在他们面前展现的是一座冷漠的房子，低矮地矗立着，被谷仓和农家院子的建筑包围着。

Mary exclaimed, ‘Bless me! here is Winthrop. I declare I had no idea! Well now, I think we had better turn back; I am excessively tired.’
玛丽大声说道：“保佑我吧！这是温思罗普。我声明我不知道！好吧，我想我们最好回去；我太累了。

Henrietta, conscious and ashamed, and seeing no cousin Charles walking along any path, or leaning against any gate, was ready to do as Mary wished; but ‘No!’ said Charles Musgrove, and ‘No, no!’ cried Louisa more eagerly, and taking her sister aside, seemed to be arguing the matter warmly.
亨利埃塔神志清醒，感到羞愧，看到查尔斯堂兄没有走在任何小路上，也没有靠在任何大门上，她准备按照玛丽的意愿去做。但“不！”查尔斯·默斯格罗夫说，“不，不！”路易莎更加急切地喊道，把妹妹拉到一边，似乎正在热烈地争论这件事。

Charles, in the meanwhile, was very decidedly declaring his resolution of calling on his aunt, now that he was so near; and very evidently, though more fearfully, trying to induce his wife to go too. But this was one of the points on which the lady shewed her strength; and when he recommended the advantage of resting herself a quarter of an hour at Winthrop, as she felt so tired, she resolutely answered, ‘Oh! no, indeed! walking up that hill again would do her more harm than any sitting down could do her good;’ and, in short, her look and manner declared, that go she would not.
与此同时，查尔斯非常坚决地宣布，既然他已经离姨妈那么近了，他就决定去拜访他的姨妈。很明显，虽然更可怕，但他试图诱使他的妻子也去。但这正是这位女士展现实力的地方之一。当他建议她在温思罗普休息一刻钟的好处时，因为她感到很累，她毅然回答：“哦！不，确实如此！再次走上那座山对她的伤害比坐下来给她带来的好处更大；简而言之，她的表情和态度表明她不会走。

After a little succession of these sort of debates and consultations, it was settled between Charles and his two sisters, that he and Henrietta should just run down for a few minutes, to see their aunt and cousins, while the rest of the party waited for them at the top of the hill. Louisa seemed the principal arranger of the plan; and, as she went a little way with them, down the hill, still talking to Henrietta, Mary took the opportunity of looking scornfully around her, and saying to Captain Wentworth—
经过一系列这样的辩论和协商后，查尔斯和他的两个姐妹之间达成了一致，他和亨利埃塔应该跑几分钟去看看他们的姑妈和表兄弟，而其他人则等待他们在山顶。路易莎似乎是该计划的主要安排者。玛丽和他们一起下了山，一边继续和亨丽埃塔说话，一边趁机轻蔑地环顾四周，对温特沃斯船长说——

‘It is very unpleasant, having such connexions! But, I assure you, I have never been in the house above twice in my life.’
‘有这样的关系，真是太不愉快了！但是，我向你保证，我这辈子从来没有来过这栋房子两次。”

She received no other answer, than an artificial, assenting smile, followed by a contemptuous glance, as he turned away, which Anne perfectly knew the meaning of.
她没有得到其他的回答，只是一个虚假的、表示同意的微笑，然后是他转过身去时轻蔑的一瞥，安妮完全明白这意味着什么。

The brow of the hill, where they remained, was a cheerful spot: Louisa returned; and Mary, finding a comfortable seat for herself on the step of a stile, was very well satisfied so long as the others all stood about her; but when Louisa drew Captain Wentworth away, to try for a gleaning of nuts in an adjoining hedge-row, and they were gone by degrees quite out of sight and sound, Mary was happy no longer; she quarrelled with her own seat, was sure Louisa had got a much better somewhere, and nothing could prevent her from going to look for a better also. She turned through the same gate, but could not see them. Anne found a nice seat for her, on a dry sunny bank, under the hedge-row, in which she had no doubt of their still being, in some spot or other. Mary sat down for a moment, but it would not do; she was sure Louisa had found a better seat somewhere else, and she would go on till she overtook her.
他们停留的山麓是一个令人愉快的地方：路易莎回来了；她回来了。玛丽在台阶上找到了一个舒适的座位，只要其他人都站在她周围，她就很满意了。但当路易莎把温特沃斯船长拉走，去附近的树篱里捡拾坚果时，它们逐渐消失在视线和声音之外，玛丽不再高兴了；她与自己的座位发生争执，确信路易莎在某个地方找到了更好的座位，没有什么可以阻止她也去寻找更好的座位。她转身穿过同一扇门，但看不到他们。安妮为她找到了一个不错的座位，在干燥的阳光明媚的河岸上，树篱下，她毫不怀疑他们仍然在其中的某个地方。玛丽坐了一会儿，但没用。她确信路易莎在其他地方找到了更好的座位，她会继续前进，直到超越她。

Anne, really tired herself, was glad to sit down; and she very soon heard Captain Wentworth and Louisa in the hedge-row, behind her, as if making their way back along the rough, wild sort of channel, down the centre. They were speaking as they drew near. Louisa’s voice was the first distinguished. She seemed to be in the middle of some eager speech. What Anne first heard was—
安妮实在太累了，很高兴坐下来。很快，她就听见温特沃斯船长和路易莎在她身后的树篱里，好像沿着崎岖不平的河道，沿着中心往回走。当他们走近时，他们正在说话。最先响起的是路易莎的声音。她似乎正在热切地讲话。安妮首先听到的是——

‘And so, I made her go. I could not bear that she should be frightened from the visit by such nonsense. What! would I be turned back from doing a thing that I had determined to do, and that I knew to be right, by the airs and interference of such a person, or of any person I may say? No, I have no idea of being so easily persuaded. When I have made up my mind, I have made it; and Henrietta seemed entirely to have made up hers to call at Winthrop to-day; and yet, she was as near giving it up, out of nonsensical complaisance!’
‘所以，我就让她走了。我无法忍受她因为这种胡言乱语而不敢来访。什么！我是否会因这样一个人或任何我可以说的人的态度和干扰而放弃做一件我已决定做的事情，并且我知道这是正确的？不，我不知道这么容易被说服。当我下定决心的时候，我就已经做到了；亨丽埃塔今天似乎已经完全做好了去温思罗普的准备。然而，出于荒谬的顺从，她几乎要放弃了！

‘She would have turned back then, but for you?’
“如果不是为了你，她早就回头了？”

‘She would indeed. I am almost ashamed to say it.’
“她确实会的。我几乎羞于这么说。

‘Happy for her, to have such a mind as yours at hand! After the hints you gave just now, which did but confirm my own observations, the last time I was in company with him, I need not affect to have no comprehension of what is going on. I see that more than a mere dutiful morning visit to your aunt was in question; and woe betide him, and her too, when it comes to things of consequence, when they are placed in circumstances requiring fortitude and strength of mind, if she have not resolution enough to resist idle interference in such a trifle as this. Your sister is an amiable creature; but yours is the character of decision and firmness, I see. If you value her conduct or happiness, infuse as much of your own spirit into her as you can. But this, no doubt, you have been always doing. It is the worst evil of too yielding and indecisive a character, that no influence over it can be depended on. You are never sure of a good impression being durable; everybody may sway it. Let those who would be happy be firm. Here is a nut,’ said he, catching one down from an upper bough. ‘to exemplify: a beautiful glossy nut, which, blessed with original strength, has outlived all the storms of autumn. Not a puncture, not a weak spot anywhere. This nut,’ he continued, with playful solemnity, ‘while so many of his brethren have fallen and been trodden under foot, is still in possession of all the happiness that a hazel nut can be supposed capable of.’ Then returning to his former earnest tone— ‘My first wish for all whom I am interested in, is that they should be firm. If Louisa Musgrove would be beautiful and happy in her November of life, she will cherish all her present powers of mind.’
‘她真高兴，有你这样的想法！经过你刚才的暗示，不过证实了我自己的观察，上次我和他在一起时，我不必假装不明白发生了什么。我发现，问题不仅仅是早上尽职尽责地拜访你的姨妈；当涉及到重要的事情时，当它们被置于需要毅力和精神力量的环境中时，如果她没有足够的决心来抵制对这样的小事的无益干涉，那么他和她就会有祸了。你的妹妹是个和蔼可亲的人；但我明白，你的性格是果决和坚定的。如果你重视她的行为或幸福，请尽可能地将你自己的精神注入她体内。但毫无疑问，你一直在这样做。性格过于屈服和优柔寡断，以致无法依靠任何影响力，这是最大的罪恶。你永远无法确定好印象是否持久；每个人都可以影响它。让那些想要幸福的人坚定不移。这是一颗坚果，”他一边说，一边从上面的树枝上抓下一颗。 “举个例子：一颗美丽而光滑的坚果，它拥有原始的力量，经受住了秋天的所有暴风雨。没有刺穿，也没有任何弱点。 “这颗坚果，”他带着俏皮的庄严继续说道，“虽然他的许多兄弟已经倒下，被践踏在脚下，但它仍然拥有榛子应有的所有幸福。”然后回到他以前的状态。语气诚恳——“我对所有我感兴趣的人的第一个愿望，就是他们应该坚定。”如果路易莎·穆斯格罗夫在十一月的生活中美丽而幸福，她就会珍惜她目前的所有智力。

He had done, and was unanswered. It would have surprised Anne if Louisa could have readily answered such a speech: words of such interest, spoken with such serious warmth! She could imagine what Louisa was feeling. For herself, she feared to move, lest she should be seen. While she remained, a bush of low rambling holly protected her, and they were moving on. Before they were beyond her hearing, however, Louisa spoke again.
他已经这么做了，但没有得到回应。如果路易莎能够轻松地回答这样的演讲，安妮会感到惊讶：如此有趣的话语，以如此严肃的热情说出来！她可以想象路易莎的感受。对于她自己来说，她不敢动，以免被人看到。当她留下来时，一丛低矮的冬青树保护着她，他们继续前行。然而，在他们听不见之前，路易莎又开口了。

‘Mary is good-natured enough in many respects,’ said she; ‘but she does sometimes provoke me excessively, by her nonsense and pride—the Elliot pride. She has a great deal too much of the Elliot pride. We do so wish that Charles had married Anne instead. I suppose you know he wanted to marry Anne?’
“玛丽在很多方面都很善良，”她说。 “但她有时确实会过度激怒我，因为她的胡言乱语和骄傲——艾略特式的骄傲。”她有太多艾略特的骄傲。我们真希望查尔斯娶了安妮。我想你知道他想娶安妮吧？

After a moment’s pause, Captain Wentworth said—
片刻停顿后，温特沃斯队长说道——

‘Do you mean that she refused him?’
“你的意思是她拒绝了他？”

‘Oh! yes; certainly.’
'哦！是的;当然。'

‘When did that happen?’
'什么时候发生的？'

‘I do not exactly know, for Henrietta and I were at school at the time; but I believe about a year before he married Mary. I wish she had accepted him. We should all have liked her a great deal better; and papa and mamma always think it was her great friend Lady Russell’s doing, that she did not. They think Charles might not be learned and bookish enough to please Lady Russell, and that therefore, she persuaded Anne to refuse him.’
“我不太清楚，因为当时亨丽埃塔和我正在上学；但我相信大约在他与玛丽结婚前一年。我希望她接受了他。我们都应该更喜欢她。爸爸和妈妈总是认为这是她的好朋友拉塞尔夫人所做的，但事实并非如此。他们认为查尔斯可能没有足够的学识和书生气来取悦拉塞尔夫人，因此，她说服安妮拒绝了他。

The sounds were retreating, and Anne distinguished no more. Her own emotions still kept her fixed. She had much to recover from, before she could move. The listener’s proverbial fate was not absolutely hers; she had heard no evil of herself, but she had heard a great deal of very painful import. She saw how her own character was considered by Captain Wentworth, and there had been just that degree of feeling and curiosity about her in his manner which must give her extreme agitation.
声音渐渐远去，安妮再也无法辨别。她自己的情绪仍然让她无法动弹。在她能够搬家之前，她还有很多事情需要恢复。听者的众所周知的命运并不完全是她的。她没有听到任何关于自己的坏话，但她听到了很多非常痛苦的事情。她看到温特沃斯上尉是如何看待她自己的性格的，而且他的态度对她表现出了一定程度的感情和好奇心，这一定会让她极度不安。

As soon as she could, she went after Mary, and having found, and walked back with her to their former station, by the stile, felt some comfort in their whole party being immediately afterwards collected, and once more in motion together. Her spirits wanted the solitude and silence which only numbers could give.
她一有机会就去追玛丽，找到了玛丽，并和她一起走回了以前的车站，在栅栏旁，她感到一些安慰，因为他们整个队伍随后立即聚集在一起，再次一起行动。她的精神需要只有数字才能给予的孤独和安静。

Charles and Henrietta returned, bringing, as may be conjectured, Charles Hayter with them. The minutiae of the business Anne could not attempt to understand; even Captain Wentworth did not seem admitted to perfect confidence here; but that there had been a withdrawing on the gentleman’s side, and a relenting on the lady’s, and that they were now very glad to be together again, did not admit a doubt. Henrietta looked a little ashamed, but very well pleased;— Charles Hayter exceedingly happy: and they were devoted to each other almost from the first instant of their all setting forward for Uppercross.
查尔斯和亨利埃塔回来了，据猜测，查尔斯·海特也回来了。安妮无法试图理解这件事的细节。就连温特沃斯上尉在这里似乎也没有表现出完全的自信。但毫无疑问，先生方面有所退缩，而女士方面则有所软化，而且他们现在很高兴再次聚在一起。亨丽埃塔看起来有点羞愧，但非常高兴；查尔斯·海特非常高兴：他们几乎从他们出发去厄珀克罗斯的第一刻起就彼此忠诚。

Everything now marked out Louisa for Captain Wentworth; nothing could be plainer; and where many divisions were necessary, or even where they were not, they walked side by side nearly as much as the other two. In a long strip of meadow land, where there was ample space for all, they were thus divided, forming three distinct parties; and to that party of the three which boasted least animation, and least complaisance, Anne necessarily belonged. She joined Charles and Mary, and was tired enough to be very glad of Charles’s other arm; but Charles, though in very good humour with her, was out of temper with his wife. Mary had shewn herself disobliging to him, and was now to reap the consequence, which consequence was his dropping her arm almost every moment to cut off the heads of some nettles in the hedge with his switch; and when Mary began to complain of it, and lament her being ill-used, according to custom, in being on the hedge side, while Anne was never incommoded on the other, he dropped the arms of both to hunt after a weasel which he had a momentary glance of, and they could hardly get him along at all.
现在，一切都表明路易莎是温特沃斯船长的。没有什么比这更简单的了；在需要许多师的地方，甚至在不需要许多师的地方，他们几乎和另外两个人一样并肩行走。在一片长长的草地上，那里有足够的空间容纳所有人，他们就这样被分成了三个不同的部分；安妮必然属于这三个人中最不活跃、最不温顺的一方。她走到查尔斯和玛丽身边，已经很累了，很高兴查尔斯有另一只手臂。查尔斯虽然对她很友善，但对他的妻子却很生气。玛丽已经表现出对他的不服从，现在她要承受后果了，这个后果就是他几乎每时每刻都放下她的手臂，用他的开关砍掉树篱上一些荨麻的头。当玛丽开始抱怨，并哀叹她按照习俗在树篱一侧受到虐待，而安妮在另一侧却从未受到不便时，他放下两人的手臂去追捕一只黄鼠狼，他把黄鼠狼当成一只黄鼠狼。看了一眼，他们根本就拿他没办法。

This long meadow bordered a lane, which their footpath, at the end of it was to cross, and when the party had all reached the gate of exit, the carriage advancing in the same direction, which had been some time heard, was just coming up, and proved to be Admiral Croft’s gig. He and his wife had taken their intended drive, and were returning home. Upon hearing how long a walk the young people had engaged in, they kindly offered a seat to any lady who might be particularly tired; it would save her a full mile, and they were going through Uppercross. The invitation was general, and generally declined. The Miss Musgroves were not at all tired, and Mary was either offended, by not being asked before any of the others, or what Louisa called the Elliot pride could not endure to make a third in a one horse chaise.
这条长长的草地毗邻一条小巷，他们的小路在小巷的尽头就要穿过，当一行人都到达出口的大门时，马车正朝同一方向前进，已经听到了一段时间的声音，刚刚驶来。并被证明是克罗夫特海军上将的演出。他和他的妻子按照预定的路线开车回家。当听说年轻人走了多长时间后，他们好心地给可能特别累的女士让座。这会节省她整整一英里，而且他们正在穿过厄珀克罗斯。邀请很笼统，一般都会被拒绝。默斯格罗夫小姐一点也不累，玛丽要么因为没有在其他人面前被问到而生气，要么路易莎所说的埃利奥特骄傲无法忍受在一辆马车上做第三个。

The walking party had crossed the lane, and were surmounting an opposite stile, and the Admiral was putting his horse in motion again, when Captain Wentworth cleared the hedge in a moment to say something to his sister. The something might be guessed by its effects.
步行队已经穿过小巷，正在越过对面的栅栏，海军上将再次策马，这时温特沃斯上尉立即清理了树篱，对他的妹妹说了些什么。可以通过其效果来猜测某物。

‘Miss Elliot, I am sure you are tired,’ cried Mrs Croft. ‘Do let us have the pleasure of taking you home. Here is excellent room for three, I assure you. If we were all like you, I believe we might sit four. You must, indeed, you must.’
“埃利奥特小姐，我相信你累了，”克​​罗夫特太太喊道。 “让我们很高兴带你回家。我向你保证，这里是适合三人入住的绝佳房间。如果我们都像你一样，我相信我们可能会坐四个人。你必须，确实，你必须。

Anne was still in the lane; and though instinctively beginning to decline, she was not allowed to proceed. The Admiral’s kind urgency came in support of his wife’s; they would not be refused; they compressed themselves into the smallest possible space to leave her a corner, and Captain Wentworth, without saying a word, turned to her, and quietly obliged her to be assisted into the carriage.
安妮还在小巷里。虽然本能地开始拒绝，但她不被允许继续下去。海军上将的善意紧迫感也支持了他妻子的紧迫感。他们不会被拒绝；他们把自己挤到尽可能小的空间里，给她留出一个角落，温特沃斯上尉一言不发，转向她，悄悄地扶着她上了马车。

Yes; he had done it. She was in the carriage, and felt that he had placed her there, that his will and his hands had done it, that she owed it to his perception of her fatigue, and his resolution to give her rest. She was very much affected by the view of his disposition towards her, which all these things made apparent. This little circumstance seemed the completion of all that had gone before. She understood him. He could not forgive her, but he could not be unfeeling. Though condemning her for the past, and considering it with high and unjust resentment, though perfectly careless of her, and though becoming attached to another, still he could not see her suffer, without the desire of giving her relief. It was a remainder of former sentiment; it was an impulse of pure, though unacknowledged friendship; it was a proof of his own warm and amiable heart, which she could not contemplate without emotions so compounded of pleasure and pain, that she knew not which prevailed.
是的;他已经做到了。她在马车里，觉得是他把她放在那里的，是他的意志和双手做到了这一点，归功于他察觉到了她的疲倦，以及他让她休息的决心。所有这些事情都清楚地表明了他对她的态度，这让她深受影响。这件小事似乎让之前发生的一切都完成了。她理解他。他不能原谅她，但他不能无情。尽管谴责她的过去，并以高度和不公正的怨恨考虑它，尽管对她完全不关心，尽管对她产生依恋，但他仍然不能看到她受苦，而不希望让她得到解脱。这是以前的感情的残余；这是一种纯粹的、虽然不被承认的友谊的冲动；这证明了他内心的温暖和蔼可亲，她一想到他的心，就会感到快乐和痛苦交织在一起，她不知道哪种情绪占上风。

Her answers to the kindness and the remarks of her companions were at first unconsciously given. They had travelled half their way along the rough lane, before she was quite awake to what they said. She then found them talking of ‘Frederick.’
对于同伴的好意和评论，她一开始是无意识地给出的。他们沿着崎岖的小路走了一半，她才完全清醒过来。然后她发现他们在谈论“弗雷德里克”。

‘He certainly means to have one or other of those two girls, Sophy,’ said the Admiral; ‘but there is no saying which. He has been running after them, too, long enough, one would think, to make up his mind. Ay, this comes of the peace. If it were war now, he would have settled it long ago. We sailors, Miss Elliot, cannot afford to make long courtships in time of war. How many days was it, my dear, between the first time of my seeing you and our sitting down together in our lodgings at North Yarmouth?’
“他当然想娶这两个女孩中的一个，苏菲，”海军上将说道。 '但没有说是哪一个。人们认为，他也一直在追赶他们，已经足够长的时间来做出决定了。哎，这是和平带来的。如果现在发生战争，他早就解决了。艾略特小姐，我们水手不能在战时进行长时间的求爱。亲爱的，从我第一次见到你到我们一起坐在北雅茅斯的住所里，过了多少天？

‘We had better not talk about it, my dear,’ replied Mrs Croft, pleasantly; ‘for if Miss Elliot were to hear how soon we came to an understanding, she would never be persuaded that we could be happy together. I had known you by character, however, long before.’
“我们最好不要谈论这件事，亲爱的，”克罗夫特太太愉快地回答道。 “因为如果埃利奥特小姐听到我们这么快就达成谅解，她就永远不会相信我们可以幸福地在一起。然而，我很久以前就认识你的性格了。

‘Well, and I had heard of you as a very pretty girl, and what were we to wait for besides? I do not like having such things so long in hand. I wish Frederick would spread a little more canvass, and bring us home one of these young ladies to Kellynch. Then there would always be company for them. And very nice young ladies they both are; I hardly know one from the other.’
“嗯，我听说过你是一个非常漂亮的女孩，除此之外我们还能等什么呢？我不喜欢这样的东西在手这么久。我希望弗雷德里克能多做一点游说，带我们其中一位年轻女士回到凯林奇。那么他们就会一直有陪伴。她们都是非常漂亮的年轻女士；我几乎不分彼此。

‘Very good humoured, unaffected girls, indeed,’ said Mrs Croft, in a tone of calmer praise, such as made Anne suspect that her keener powers might not consider either of them as quite worthy of her brother; ‘and a very respectable family. One could not be connected with better people. My dear Admiral, that post! we shall certainly take that post.’
“确实，她们是非常幽默、不受影响的女孩，”克罗夫特太太用一种比较平静的赞扬语气说，这让安妮怀疑，她更敏锐的能力可能不会认为她们中的任何一个都配得上她的哥哥；但是，她们中的任何一个都配不上她的哥哥。 '还有一个非常受人尊敬的家庭。一个人无法与更好的人建立联系。我亲爱的海军上将，那个帖子！我们一定会接受这个职位。

But by coolly giving the reins a better direction herself they happily passed the danger; and by once afterwards judiciously putting out her hand they neither fell into a rut, nor ran foul of a dung-cart; and Anne, with some amusement at their style of driving, which she imagined no bad representation of the general guidance of their affairs, found herself safely deposited by them at the Cottage.
但通过冷静地给缰绳自己一个更好的方向，他们愉快地度过了危险。后来她明智地伸出了手，他们既没有陷入车辙，也没有撞上粪车。安妮对他们的驾驶风格感到有些好笑，她认为这很好地代表了他们事务的总体指导，发现自己被他们安全地安置在小屋里。

Chapter 11
第11章

The time now approached for Lady Russell’s return: the day was even fixed; and Anne, being engaged to join her as soon as she was resettled, was looking forward to an early removal to Kellynch, and beginning to think how her own comfort was likely to be affected by it.
拉塞尔夫人回来的时间已经临近了：日子已经确定了；安妮一搬到新安顿地就订婚了，她期待着早日搬到凯林奇，并开始思考她自己的舒适感可能会受到怎样的影响。

It would place her in the same village with Captain Wentworth, within half a mile of him; they would have to frequent the same church, and there must be intercourse between the two families. This was against her; but on the other hand, he spent so much of his time at Uppercross, that in removing thence she might be considered rather as leaving him behind, than as going towards him; and, upon the whole, she believed she must, on this interesting question, be the gainer, almost as certainly as in her change of domestic society, in leaving poor Mary for Lady Russell.
这将使她和温特沃斯上尉住在同一个村庄，距离他不到半英里。他们必须经常光顾同一座教堂，两个家庭之间也必须有交往。这对她不利。但另一方面，他在厄普克罗斯度过了太多的时间，因此，离开那里，她可能会被认为是把他抛在身后，而不是走向他。总的来说，她相信，在这个有趣的问题上，她一定会成为赢家，几乎就像她改变家庭社会一样，把可怜的玛丽留给拉塞尔夫人。

She wished it might be possible for her to avoid ever seeing Captain Wentworth at the Hall: those rooms had witnessed former meetings which would be brought too painfully before her; but she was yet more anxious for the possibility of Lady Russell and Captain Wentworth never meeting anywhere. They did not like each other, and no renewal of acquaintance now could do any good; and were Lady Russell to see them together, she might think that he had too much self-possession, and she too little.
她希望自己能够避免在大厅里见到温特沃斯上尉：这些房间见证了以前的会议，这些会议如果摆在她面前，会让人感到非常痛苦；因为这些房间里曾经有过会议。但她更担心拉塞尔夫人和温特沃斯船长永远不会在任何地方见面。他们彼此不喜欢对方，现在再相识也无济于事。如果拉塞尔夫人看到他们在一起，她可能会认为他太沉着，而她太淡定。

These points formed her chief solicitude in anticipating her removal from Uppercross, where she felt she had been stationed quite long enough. Her usefulness to little Charles would always give some sweetness to the memory of her two months’ visit there, but he was gaining strength apace, and she had nothing else to stay for.
这些要点构成了她在离开厄普克罗斯时的主要忧虑，她觉得自己已经在那里驻扎了足够长的时间。她对小查尔斯的帮助总是会给她两个月的访问带来一些甜蜜的回忆，但他正在迅速恢复体力，而她没有别的事可以留下来。

The conclusion of her visit, however, was diversified in a way which she had not at all imagined. Captain Wentworth, after being unseen and unheard of at Uppercross for two whole days, appeared again among them to justify himself by a relation of what had kept him away.
然而，这次访问的结局却是她完全没有想象到的多样化。温特沃斯上尉在厄珀克罗斯待了整整两天，既不见踪影，又闻所未闻，他再次出现在他们中间，以与让他远离的事情有关的关系来为自己辩护。

A letter from his friend, Captain Harville, having found him out at last, had brought intelligence of Captain Harville’s being settled with his family at Lyme for the winter; of their being therefore, quite unknowingly, within twenty miles of each other. Captain Harville had never been in good health since a severe wound which he received two years before, and Captain Wentworth’s anxiety to see him had determined him to go immediately to Lyme. He had been there for four-and-twenty hours. His acquittal was complete, his friendship warmly honoured, a lively interest excited for his friend, and his description of the fine country about Lyme so feelingly attended to by the party, that an earnest desire to see Lyme themselves, and a project for going thither was the consequence.
他的朋友哈维尔上尉终于找到了他，一封信带来了哈维尔上尉和他的家人在莱姆过冬的情报。因此，他们在不知不觉中彼此相距不到二十英里。哈维尔上尉自从两年前受了重伤以来，身体一直不好，温特沃斯上尉急于见到他，决定立即前往莱姆。他已经在那里呆了四二十个小时了。他的无罪释放已经完成，他的友谊受到热烈的尊重，对他的朋友产生了浓厚的兴趣，他对莱姆美丽乡村的描述如此受到党的热情关注，以至于真诚地渴望见到莱姆本人，并计划去那里这就是结果。

The young people were all wild to see Lyme. Captain Wentworth talked of going there again himself, it was only seventeen miles from Uppercross; though November, the weather was by no means bad; and, in short, Louisa, who was the most eager of the eager, having formed the resolution to go, and besides the pleasure of doing as she liked, being now armed with the idea of merit in maintaining her own way, bore down all the wishes of her father and mother for putting it off till summer; and to Lyme they were to go—Charles, Mary, Anne, Henrietta, Louisa, and Captain Wentworth.
年轻人都很想见到莱姆。温特沃斯上尉谈到自己要再去那里一次，那里距离厄普克罗斯只有十七英里。虽然是十一月，但天气并不坏。简而言之，路易莎是最渴望的人，她已经下定决心要去，除了随心所欲地做事的乐趣之外，现在她有了坚持自己的道路的优点的想法，压倒了所有的人。她父母希望推迟到夏天的愿望；他们要去莱姆——查尔斯、玛丽、安妮、亨丽埃塔、路易莎和温特沃斯上尉。

The first heedless scheme had been to go in the morning and return at night; but to this Mr Musgrove, for the sake of his horses, would not consent; and when it came to be rationally considered, a day in the middle of November would not leave much time for seeing a new place, after deducting seven hours, as the nature of the country required, for going and returning. They were, consequently, to stay the night there, and not to be expected back till the next day’s dinner. This was felt to be a considerable amendment; and though they all met at the Great House at rather an early breakfast hour, and set off very punctually, it was so much past noon before the two carriages, Mr Musgrove’s coach containing the four ladies, and Charles’s curricle, in which he drove Captain Wentworth, were descending the long hill into Lyme, and entering upon the still steeper street of the town itself, that it was very evident they would not have more than time for looking about them, before the light and warmth of the day were gone.
第一个粗心的计划是早上去，晚上回来。但默斯格罗夫先生出于马匹的考虑，不同意。理性地考虑一下，十一月中旬的一天，按照这个国家的性质，扣除往返的七个小时后，并没有多少时间去见识新的地方。因此，他们要在那里过夜，直到第二天晚餐时才能回来。这被认为是一项相当大的修改；尽管他们都在早餐时间很早的时候在大宅里集合，并且非常准时地出发了，但在两辆马车之前已经过了中午，穆斯格罗夫先生的马车载着四位女士，而查尔斯的课程，他驾驶着船长温特沃斯正走下长长的山坡，进入莱姆，进入城镇本身更加陡峭的街道，很明显，在白天的阳光和温暖消失之前，他们没有更多的时间四处张望。

After securing accommodations, and ordering a dinner at one of the inns, the next thing to be done was unquestionably to walk directly down to the sea. They were come too late in the year for any amusement or variety which Lyme, as a public place, might offer. The rooms were shut up, the lodgers almost all gone, scarcely any family but of the residents left; and, as there is nothing to admire in the buildings themselves, the remarkable situation of the town, the principal street almost hurrying into the water, the walk to the Cobb, skirting round the pleasant little bay, which, in the season, is animated with bathing machines and company; the Cobb itself, its old wonders and new improvements, with the very beautiful line of cliffs stretching out to the east of the town, are what the stranger’s eye will seek; and a very strange stranger it must be, who does not see charms in the immediate environs of Lyme, to make him wish to know it better. The scenes in its neighbourhood, Charmouth, with its high grounds and extensive sweeps of country, and still more, its sweet, retired bay, backed by dark cliffs, where fragments of low rock among the sands, make it the happiest spot for watching the flow of the tide, for sitting in unwearied contemplation; the woody varieties of the cheerful village of Up Lyme; and, above all, Pinny, with its green chasms between romantic rocks, where the scattered forest trees and orchards of luxuriant growth, declare that many a generation must have passed away since the first partial falling of the cliff prepared the ground for such a state, where a scene so wonderful and so lovely is exhibited, as may more than equal any of the resembling scenes of the far-famed Isle of Wight: these places must be visited, and visited again, to make the worth of Lyme understood.
找到住宿，在旅馆订了一顿晚餐后，接下来要做的无疑就是直接步行到海边了。他们来得太晚了，莱姆这个公共场所可能无法提供任何娱乐或多样性。房间都关上了，房客几乎都走了，除了居民之外，几乎没有一家人离开。而且，由于建筑物本身没有什么值得欣赏的，所以小镇的地理位置非常好，主要街道几乎都快要入水了，步行到科布河，绕过宜人的小海湾，在这个季节，这里生机勃勃。有洗澡机和陪伴；科布本身，它古老的奇迹和新的改进，以及延伸到城镇东部的非常美丽的悬崖线，都是陌生人的眼睛所寻找的；一定是一个非常奇怪的陌生人，他看不到莱姆附近的魅力，让他想要更好地了解它。 附近的查茅斯 (Charmouth) 拥有高地和广阔的乡村，更重要的是，它美丽而隐秘的海湾，背靠黑暗的悬崖，沙滩上有低矮的岩石碎片，使其成为观看海浪的最佳地点。潮水的流动，​​适合静坐不倦的沉思；莱姆上游村庄的木本品种；最重要的是，平尼山浪漫的岩石之间有绿色的裂缝，那里散布着茂密的森林树木和茂盛的果园，宣告自从悬崖第一次部分塌陷为这种状态奠定了基础以来，肯定已经过去了许多代人。那里展示了如此奇妙和如此可爱的场景，可能比著名的怀特岛的任何相似场景都重要：必须参观并再次参观这些地方，才能了解莱姆的价值。

The party from Uppercross passing down by the now deserted and melancholy looking rooms, and still descending, soon found themselves on the sea-shore; and lingering only, as all must linger and gaze on a first return to the sea, who ever deserved to look on it at all, proceeded towards the Cobb, equally their object in itself and on Captain Wentworth’s account: for in a small house, near the foot of an old pier of unknown date, were the Harvilles settled. Captain Wentworth turned in to call on his friend; the others walked on, and he was to join them on the Cobb.
从厄珀克罗斯来的一行人经过现在已经空无一人、看上去忧郁的房间，仍在下降，很快就发现自己到了海边。只是徘徊，正如所有人都必须徘徊并凝视着第一次回到大海，谁值得一看，继续向科布前进，同样是他们的目标本身，也是出于温特沃斯船长的考虑：因为在一座小房子里，哈维尔一家定居在靠近一座年代不明的旧码头脚下的地方。温特沃斯上尉前来拜访他的朋友。其他人继续前行，他要和他们一起登上科布河。

They were by no means tired of wondering and admiring; and not even Louisa seemed to feel that they had parted with Captain Wentworth long, when they saw him coming after them, with three companions, all well known already, by description, to be Captain and Mrs Harville, and a Captain Benwick, who was staying with them.
他们从未厌倦过好奇和钦佩。当他们看到温特沃斯船长带着三个同伴跟在他们后面时，连路易莎似乎也没有觉得他们已经与温特沃斯船长分开很久了，根据描述，他们三个同伴都是众所周知的哈维尔船长和夫人，还有一位本威克船长，他是和他们住在一起。

Captain Benwick had some time ago been first lieutenant of the Laconia; and the account which Captain Wentworth had given of him, on his return from Lyme before, his warm praise of him as an excellent young man and an officer, whom he had always valued highly, which must have stamped him well in the esteem of every listener, had been followed by a little history of his private life, which rendered him perfectly interesting in the eyes of all the ladies. He had been engaged to Captain Harville’s sister, and was now mourning her loss. They had been a year or two waiting for fortune and promotion. Fortune came, his prize-money as lieutenant being great; promotion, too, came at last; but Fanny Harville did not live to know it. She had died the preceding summer while he was at sea. Captain Wentworth believed it impossible for man to be more attached to woman than poor Benwick had been to Fanny Harville, or to be more deeply afflicted under the dreadful change. He considered his disposition as of the sort which must suffer heavily, uniting very strong feelings with quiet, serious, and retiring manners, and a decided taste for reading, and sedentary pursuits. To finish the interest of the story, the friendship between him and the Harvilles seemed, if possible, augmented by the event which closed all their views of alliance, and Captain Benwick was now living with them entirely. Captain Harville had taken his present house for half a year; his taste, and his health, and his fortune, all directing him to a residence inexpensive, and by the sea; and the grandeur of the country, and the retirement of Lyme in the winter, appeared exactly adapted to Captain Benwick’s state of mind. The sympathy and good-will excited towards Captain Benwick was very great.
本威克船长不久前曾担任拉科尼亚号的中尉。温特沃斯上尉从莱姆回来时对他的评价，对他的热情赞扬是一个优秀的年轻人和一名军官，他一直高度评价他，这一定使他在每个人的尊敬中留下了深刻的印象。听众，接着是他的私生活的一些历史，这使他在所有女士眼中变得非常有趣。他与哈维尔上尉的妹妹订婚了，现在正在哀悼她的去世。他们等待财富和升职已经有一两年了。运气来了，他作为中尉的奖金很高。晋升也终于到来了。但范妮·哈维尔没能活着知道这一点。去年夏天，当他出海时，她去世了。温特沃斯上尉相信，男人对女人的依恋不可能比可怜的本威克对范妮·哈维尔的依恋更强烈，也不可能在可怕的变化下受到更深刻的折磨。他认为自己的性格是那种必须承受很大痛苦的性格，将非常强烈的感情与安静、严肃和隐居的举止、对阅读和久坐的追求结合在一起。为了完成这个故事的兴趣，如果可能的话，他和哈维尔一家之间的友谊似乎因这一事件而增强了，该事件消除了他们对联盟的所有看法，而本威克船长现在完全与他们住在一起。哈维尔船长已经占用了他现在的房子半年了。他的品位、他的健康、他的财富，都引导他去寻找一处廉价的海边住所。这个国家的宏伟，以及莱姆在冬天的退休，似乎完全符合本威克船长的精神状态。人们对本威克船长的同情和善意非常强烈。

‘And yet,’ said Anne to herself, as they now moved forward to meet the party, ‘he has not, perhaps, a more sorrowing heart than I have. I cannot believe his prospects so blighted for ever. He is younger than I am; younger in feeling, if not in fact; younger as a man. He will rally again, and be happy with another.’
“然而，”当他们向前迎接这群人时，安妮自言自语道，“也许他的心并不比我更悲伤。”我不敢相信他的前景会永远黯淡。他比我年轻；即使事实上并非如此，但感觉上更年轻；作为一个男人更年轻。他会再次振作起来，并对另一个人感到高兴。”

They all met, and were introduced. Captain Harville was a tall, dark man, with a sensible, benevolent countenance; a little lame; and from strong features and want of health, looking much older than Captain Wentworth. Captain Benwick looked, and was, the youngest of the three, and, compared with either of them, a little man. He had a pleasing face and a melancholy air, just as he ought to have, and drew back from conversation.
他们都认识了，并被介绍了。哈维尔上尉是个身材高大、肤色黝黑的男人，有着一张明智而仁慈的面容。有点跛脚；而且从五官粗犷和健康状况来看，他看上去比温特沃斯上尉老得多。本威克船长看起来确实是三人中最年轻的一个，与他们中的任何一个相比，他都是一个小个子。他有着一张讨人喜欢的面孔和一种忧郁的神情，这是他应有的样子，但他却从谈话中抽身而退。

Captain Harville, though not equalling Captain Wentworth in manners, was a perfect gentleman, unaffected, warm, and obliging. Mrs Harville, a degree less polished than her husband, seemed, however, to have the same good feelings; and nothing could be more pleasant than their desire of considering the whole party as friends of their own, because the friends of Captain Wentworth, or more kindly hospitable than their entreaties for their all promising to dine with them. The dinner, already ordered at the inn, was at last, though unwillingly, accepted as a excuse; but they seemed almost hurt that Captain Wentworth should have brought any such party to Lyme, without considering it as a thing of course that they should dine with them.
哈维尔上尉虽然在举止上比不上温特沃斯上尉，但他是一位完美的绅士，不做作，热情，乐于助人。哈维尔夫人虽然不如她丈夫那么优雅，但似乎也有同样的好感。没有什么比他们希望将整个聚会视为自己的朋友（因为温特沃斯船长的朋友）更令人愉快的了，或者比他们恳求大家都答应与他们一起吃饭更友善好客。晚餐已经在旅馆订好了，尽管不情愿，但最后还是以借口接受了。但他们似乎几乎感到受伤，因为温特沃斯上尉竟然把这样的聚会带到了莱姆，而不认为他们当然应该和他们一起吃饭。

There was so much attachment to Captain Wentworth in all this, and such a bewitching charm in a degree of hospitality so uncommon, so unlike the usual style of give-and-take invitations, and dinners of formality and display, that Anne felt her spirits not likely to be benefited by an increasing acquaintance among his brother-officers. ‘These would have been all my friends,’ was her thought; and she had to struggle against a great tendency to lowness.
在这一切中，她对温特沃斯船长有如此多的依恋，在一种罕见的热情好客中，有一种令人着迷的魅力，与通常的邀请函、正式和炫耀的晚宴风格不同，安妮感到自己精神抖擞。他不太可能从他的兄弟军官之间日益熟识中受益。 “他们本来就是我的朋友，”她想。她必须与一种卑微的倾向作斗争。

On quitting the Cobb, they all went in-doors with their new friends, and found rooms so small as none but those who invite from the heart could think capable of accommodating so many. Anne had a moment’s astonishment on the subject herself; but it was soon lost in the pleasanter feelings which sprang from the sight of all the ingenious contrivances and nice arrangements of Captain Harville, to turn the actual space to the best account, to supply the deficiencies of lodging-house furniture, and defend the windows and doors against the winter storms to be expected. The varieties in the fitting-up of the rooms, where the common necessaries provided by the owner, in the common indifferent plight, were contrasted with some few articles of a rare species of wood, excellently worked up, and with something curious and valuable from all the distant countries Captain Harville had visited, were more than amusing to Anne; connected as it all was with his profession, the fruit of its labours, the effect of its influence on his habits, the picture of repose and domestic happiness it presented, made it to her a something more, or less, than gratification.
离开科布酒店后，他们都和新朋友一起进了屋，发现房间很小，只有那些真心邀请的人才能想象能够容纳这么多人。安妮自己也对这个话题感到一阵惊讶。但很快，人们就沉浸在愉快的感觉中，这种感觉是从哈维尔船长的所有巧妙设计和精心安排中产生的，他充分利用了实际空间，补充了宿舍家具的缺陷，并保护了窗户门可以抵御冬季风暴。房间装修的多样性，在常见的冷漠困境中，业主提供的常见必需品与一些稀有木材制成的物品形成鲜明对比，这些物品经过精心加工，并与一些奇怪且有价值的东西形成鲜明对比。哈维尔船长访问过的所有遥远国家对安妮来说都非常有趣。尽管这一切都与他的职业有关，但它的劳动成果、它对他习惯的影响、它所呈现的宁静和家庭幸福的景象，对她来说或多或少是一种满足。

Captain Harville was no reader; but he had contrived excellent accommodations, and fashioned very pretty shelves, for a tolerable collection of well-bound volumes, the property of Captain Benwick. His lameness prevented him from taking much exercise; but a mind of usefulness and ingenuity seemed to furnish him with constant employment within. He drew, he varnished, he carpentered, he glued; he made toys for the children; he fashioned new netting-needles and pins with improvements; and if everything else was done, sat down to his large fishing-net at one corner of the room.
哈维尔船长不读书。但他设计了极好的住宿条件，并制作了非常漂亮的书架，存放了本威克船长的财产，装订得还算可以的书籍。他的跛行使他无法进行太多的锻炼。但有用和聪明的头脑似乎使他能够不断地工作。他画画、涂漆、木工、胶合；他为孩子们制作玩具；他改进了新的网针和别针。如果一切都完成了，他就坐在房间一角的大渔网旁。

Anne thought she left great happiness behind her when they quitted the house; and Louisa, by whom she found herself walking, burst forth into raptures of admiration and delight on the character of the navy; their friendliness, their brotherliness, their openness, their uprightness; protesting that she was convinced of sailors having more worth and warmth than any other set of men in England; that they only knew how to live, and they only deserved to be respected and loved.
安妮认为，当他们离开家时，她留下了巨大的幸福。路易莎在她身边走过，对海军的品质赞不绝口，欣喜若狂。他们的友善，他们的兄弟情谊，他们的开放，他们的正直；抗议说她相信水手比英国任何其他男人都更有价值和温暖；他们只知道如何生活，他们只值得被尊重和爱。

They went back to dress and dine; and so well had the scheme answered already, that nothing was found amiss; though its being ‘so entirely out of season,’ and the ‘no thoroughfare of Lyme,’ and the ‘no expectation of company,’ had brought many apologies from the heads of the inn.
他们回去穿衣吃饭。这个计划已经得到了很好的答复，没有发现任何问题。尽管它“完全不合时宜”，而且“没有莱姆的大道”，“没有人陪伴”，但旅馆的负责人还是多次道歉。

Anne found herself by this time growing so much more hardened to being in Captain Wentworth’s company than she had at first imagined could ever be, that the sitting down to the same table with him now, and the interchange of the common civilities attending on it (they never got beyond), was become a mere nothing.
安妮发现自己此时对温特沃斯船长的陪伴变得越来越冷漠，这比她最初想象的要严重得多，以至于现在与他坐在同一张桌子上，并进行了共同的礼貌交流（他们从未超越），变得一无所有。

The nights were too dark for the ladies to meet again till the morrow, but Captain Harville had promised them a visit in the evening; and he came, bringing his friend also, which was more than had been expected, it having been agreed that Captain Benwick had all the appearance of being oppressed by the presence of so many strangers. He ventured among them again, however, though his spirits certainly did not seem fit for the mirth of the party in general.
夜晚太黑了，女士们要到明天才能再次见面，但哈维尔船长答应晚上会来拜访她们。他来了，还带来了他的朋友，这超出了预期，大家一致认为，本威克船长看上去因这么多陌生人的存在而感到压抑。然而，他再次冒险进入他们之中，尽管他的精神显然不适合整个聚会的欢乐。

While Captains Wentworth and Harville led the talk on one side of the room, and by recurring to former days, supplied anecdotes in abundance to occupy and entertain the others, it fell to Anne’s lot to be placed rather apart with Captain Benwick; and a very good impulse of her nature obliged her to begin an acquaintance with him. He was shy, and disposed to abstraction; but the engaging mildness of her countenance, and gentleness of her manners, soon had their effect; and Anne was well repaid the first trouble of exertion. He was evidently a young man of considerable taste in reading, though principally in poetry; and besides the persuasion of having given him at least an evening’s indulgence in the discussion of subjects, which his usual companions had probably no concern in, she had the hope of being of real use to him in some suggestions as to the duty and benefit of struggling against affliction, which had naturally grown out of their conversation. For, though shy, he did not seem reserved; it had rather the appearance of feelings glad to burst their usual restraints; and having talked of poetry, the richness of the present age, and gone through a brief comparison of opinion as to the first-rate poets, trying to ascertain whether Marmion or The Lady of the Lake were to be preferred, and how ranked the Giaour and The Bride of Abydos; and moreover, how the Giaour was to be pronounced, he showed himself so intimately acquainted with all the tenderest songs of the one poet, and all the impassioned descriptions of hopeless agony of the other; he repeated, with such tremulous feeling, the various lines which imaged a broken heart, or a mind destroyed by wretchedness, and looked so entirely as if he meant to be understood, that she ventured to hope he did not always read only poetry, and to say, that she thought it was the misfortune of poetry to be seldom safely enjoyed by those who enjoyed it completely; and that the strong feelings which alone could estimate it truly were the very feelings which ought to taste it but sparingly.
温特沃斯船长和哈维尔船长在房间的一侧主持了谈话，并通过重提往日的方式，提供了大量的轶事来吸引和娱乐其他人，而安妮却不得不与本威克船长分开。她天性的良好冲动迫使她开始结识他。他很害羞，而且总是心不在焉。但她那迷人的温和的面容和温柔的举止很快就产生了效果。安妮最初的努力得到了很好的回报。显然，他是一位在阅读方面颇有品味的年轻人，不过主要是在诗歌方面。除了说服他至少给他一个晚上的时间来讨论他平时的同伴可能不关心的话题之外，她还希望在一些关于义务和利益的建议上对他真正有用。与痛苦作斗争，这些痛苦自然是从他们的谈话中产生的。 因为，尽管他很害羞，但他看起来并不矜持。相反，它表现出一种很高兴打破他们通常的束缚的感觉。谈论了诗歌，当今时代的丰富性，并对一流诗人进行了简短的比较，试图确定玛米恩还是湖中女士更受青睐，以及吉奥尔的排名如何和阿拜多斯的新娘；此外，关于“Giaour”的发音，他表现出对一位诗人所有最温柔的歌曲以及对另一位诗人所有对绝望痛苦的热情描述的熟悉。他带着如此颤抖的感觉重复着各种诗句，这些诗句描绘了一颗破碎的心，或者一个被不幸摧毁的心灵，看起来完全好像他想要被理解，以至于她斗胆希望他不总是只读诗，并且她说，她认为诗歌的不幸在于很少能被那些完全喜欢它的人安全地欣赏它；只有那些能够真实地评价它的强烈情感才是应该谨慎地品尝它的情感。

His looks shewing him not pained, but pleased with this allusion to his situation, she was emboldened to go on; and feeling in herself the right of seniority of mind, she ventured to recommend a larger allowance of prose in his daily study; and on being requested to particularize, mentioned such works of our best moralists, such collections of the finest letters, such memoirs of characters of worth and suffering, as occurred to her at the moment as calculated to rouse and fortify the mind by the highest precepts, and the strongest examples of moral and religious endurances.
他的表情显示他并不痛苦，反而对他的处境感到高兴，她更有勇气继续说下去。她觉得自己在思想上有资历，所以大胆地在他的日常学习中推荐了更多的散文。当被要求具体说明时，她提到了我们最好的道德家的著作，最好的信件集，关于有价值和痛苦的人物的回忆录，这些都是她当时想到的，旨在通过最高的戒律来唤醒和强化心灵。 ，以及道德和宗教忍耐的最坚强的例子。

Captain Benwick listened attentively, and seemed grateful for the interest implied; and though with a shake of the head, and sighs which declared his little faith in the efficacy of any books on grief like his, noted down the names of those she recommended, and promised to procure and read them.
本威克船长聚精会神地听着，似乎对他所表现出的兴趣表示感激。尽管摇了摇头，叹了口气，表明他对任何像他这样的关于悲伤的书的功效都不太相信，但还是记下了她推荐的那些书的名字，并承诺购买和阅读它们。

When the evening was over, Anne could not but be amused at the idea of her coming to Lyme to preach patience and resignation to a young man whom she had never seen before; nor could she help fearing, on more serious reflection, that, like many other great moralists and preachers, she had been eloquent on a point in which her own conduct would ill bear examination.
晚上结束后，安妮一想到自己要去莱姆向一个她从未见过的年轻人宣讲耐心和顺从的想法，就不禁感到好笑。更认真地反思，她也不禁担心，像许多其他伟大的道德家和传教士一样，她雄辩地阐述了她自己的行为经不起检验的观点。

Chapter 12
第12章

Anne and Henrietta, finding themselves the earliest of the party the next morning, agreed to stroll down to the sea before breakfast. They went to the sands, to watch the flowing of the tide, which a fine south-easterly breeze was bringing in with all the grandeur which so flat a shore admitted. They praised the morning; gloried in the sea; sympathized in the delight of the fresh-feeling breeze—and were silent; till Henrietta suddenly began again with—
安妮和亨丽埃塔发现自己是第二天早上最早参加的聚会，于是同意在早餐前漫步到海边。他们走到沙滩上，观看潮水的流动，​​一阵微弱的东南风带来了如此平坦的海岸所带来的所有壮丽。他们赞美早晨；荣耀于大海；他们沉浸在清新微风的愉悦之中——然后沉默了；直到亨利埃塔突然又开始说——

‘Oh! yes,—I am quite convinced that, with very few exceptions, the sea-air always does good. There can be no doubt of its having been of the greatest service to Dr Shirley, after his illness, last spring twelve-month. He declares himself, that coming to Lyme for a month, did him more good than all the medicine he took; and, that being by the sea, always makes him feel young again. Now, I cannot help thinking it a pity that he does not live entirely by the sea. I do think he had better leave Uppercross entirely, and fix at Lyme. Do not you, Anne? Do not you agree with me, that it is the best thing he could do, both for himself and Mrs Shirley? She has cousins here, you know, and many acquaintance, which would make it cheerful for her, and I am sure she would be glad to get to a place where she could have medical attendance at hand, in case of his having another seizure. Indeed I think it quite melancholy to have such excellent people as Dr and Mrs Shirley, who have been doing good all their lives, wearing out their last days in a place like Uppercross, where, excepting our family, they seem shut out from all the world. I wish his friends would propose it to him. I really think they ought. And, as to procuring a dispensation, there could be no difficulty at his time of life, and with his character. My only doubt is, whether anything could persuade him to leave his parish. He is so very strict and scrupulous in his notions; over-scrupulous I must say. Do not you think, Anne, it is being over-scrupulous? Do not you think it is quite a mistaken point of conscience, when a clergyman sacrifices his health for the sake of duties, which may be just as well performed by another person? And at Lyme too, only seventeen miles off, he would be near enough to hear, if people thought there was anything to complain of.’
'哦！是的，——我深信，除了极少数例外，海风总是有好处的。毫无疑问，在去年春天的十二个月里，雪莉医生患病后，它对他起到了最大的作用。他自己宣称，来到莱姆一个月，比他服用的所有药物都对他有好处；而且，在海边，总是让他感觉又年轻了。现在，我不禁觉得可惜他并不完全住在海边。我确实认为他最好完全离开厄普克罗斯，去莱姆。安妮，你不这么认为吗？你不同意我的观点吗，这对他自己和雪莉夫人来说都是他能做的最好的事情？你知道，她在这里有表兄弟姐妹，还有很多熟人，这会让她感到高兴，而且我相信她会很高兴到达一个可以立即就医的地方，以防他再次癫痫发作。事实上，我认为像雪莉博士和雪莉夫人这样优秀的人，一生都在行善，却在厄普克罗斯这样的地方度过了最后的日子，这真是令人悲伤，在那里，除了我们的家人之外，他们似乎与所有的一切都隔绝了。世界。我希望他的朋友们能向他提议。我真的认为他们应该这样做。至于获得特许权，以他的年纪和他的性格来说，不会有什么困难。我唯一的疑问是，是否有什么可以说服他离开教区。他的观念是那么的严格、严谨；我必须说过于谨慎。安妮，你不觉得这样太过于谨慎了吗？当一名牧师为了职责而牺牲自己的健康时，你不认为这是一种严重的良心错误吗？而其他人也可以很好地履行职责？ 在莱姆也是如此，距离只有十七英里，如果人们认为有什么可抱怨的，他就足够近，可以听到。’

Anne smiled more than once to herself during this speech, and entered into the subject, as ready to do good by entering into the feelings of a young lady as of a young man, though here it was good of a lower standard, for what could be offered but general acquiescence? She said all that was reasonable and proper on the business; felt the claims of Dr Shirley to repose as she ought; saw how very desirable it was that he should have some active, respectable young man, as a resident curate, and was even courteous enough to hint at the advantage of such resident curate’s being married.
在这次演讲中，安妮不止一次地对自己微笑，然后进入主题，准备好通过进入一位年轻女士和一个年轻人的感情来做好事，尽管这里的标准较低是好的，因为什么可以但一般默认可以提供吗？她说这一切都是合理且适当的。感受到雪莉医生的要求，让她得到应有的休息；看到他有一个活跃的、受人尊敬的年轻人作为常驻牧师是多么令人向往，甚至很有礼貌地暗示这样的常驻牧师已婚的好处。

‘I wish,’ said Henrietta, very well pleased with her companion, ‘I wish Lady Russell lived at Uppercross, and were intimate with Dr Shirley. I have always heard of Lady Russell as a woman of the greatest influence with everybody! I always look upon her as able to persuade a person to anything! I am afraid of her, as I have told you before, quite afraid of her, because she is so very clever; but I respect her amazingly, and wish we had such a neighbour at Uppercross.’
“我希望，”亨丽埃塔对她的同伴非常满意，说道，“我希望拉塞尔夫人住在厄珀克罗斯，并且与雪莉医生关系亲密。我一直听说拉塞尔夫人是一位对每个人都有最大影响力的女性！我一直认为她能够说服一个人做任何事情！我害怕她，正如我之前告诉过你的，非常害怕她，因为她非常聪明。但我非常尊重她，希望我们在厄珀克罗斯有这样的邻居。”

Anne was amused by Henrietta’s manner of being grateful, and amused also that the course of events and the new interests of Henrietta’s views should have placed her friend at all in favour with any of the Musgrove family; she had only time, however, for a general answer, and a wish that such another woman were at Uppercross, before all subjects suddenly ceased, on seeing Louisa and Captain Wentworth coming towards them. They came also for a stroll till breakfast was likely to be ready; but Louisa recollecting, immediately afterwards that she had something to procure at a shop, invited them all to go back with her into the town. They were all at her disposal.
安妮对亨丽埃塔的感激之情感到好笑，同时也觉得好笑的是，事件的进程和亨丽埃塔观点的新兴趣应该使她的朋友完全支持穆斯格罗夫家族的任何一个人；但亨利埃塔的感激之情让安妮感到好笑。然而，她只有时间给出一般性的回答，并希望在厄珀克罗斯有另一个这样的女人，然后所有的话题突然停止，看到路易莎和温特沃斯船长朝他们走来。他们还来散步，直到早餐准备好为止。但路易莎立刻想起她要去一家商店买东西，就邀请他们和她一起回城里。他们都听她支配。

When they came to the steps, leading upwards from the beach, a gentleman, at the same moment preparing to come down, politely drew back, and stopped to give them way. They ascended and passed him; and as they passed, Anne’s face caught his eye, and he looked at her with a degree of earnest admiration, which she could not be insensible of. She was looking remarkably well; her very regular, very pretty features, having the bloom and freshness of youth restored by the fine wind which had been blowing on her complexion, and by the animation of eye which it had also produced. It was evident that the gentleman, (completely a gentleman in manner) admired her exceedingly. Captain Wentworth looked round at her instantly in a way which shewed his noticing of it. He gave her a momentary glance, a glance of brightness, which seemed to say, ‘That man is struck with you, and even I, at this moment, see something like Anne Elliot again.’
当他们来到从海滩向上延伸的台阶时，一位绅士正准备下来，礼貌地退后一步，停下来给他们让路。他们上升并经过了他；当他们经过时，安妮的脸引起了他的注意，他用一种真诚的钦佩的目光看着她，而她不可能感觉不到。她看上去气色很好。她的五官非常规矩，非常漂亮，微风拂过她的肤色，眼睛也随之变得生动起来，恢复了青春的绽放和清新。看得出来这位绅士（完全是一位绅士的举止）对她非常欣赏。温特沃斯上尉立刻转头看她，眼神中流露出他注意到了这一点。他看了她一眼，目光明亮，似乎在说：“那个男人被你迷住了，就连我，此刻也再次看到了像安妮·埃利奥特这样的东西。”

After attending Louisa through her business, and loitering about a little longer, they returned to the inn; and Anne, in passing afterwards quickly from her own chamber to their dining-room, had nearly run against the very same gentleman, as he came out of an adjoining apartment. She had before conjectured him to be a stranger like themselves, and determined that a well-looking groom, who was strolling about near the two inns as they came back, should be his servant. Both master and man being in mourning assisted the idea. It was now proved that he belonged to the same inn as themselves; and this second meeting, short as it was, also proved again by the gentleman’s looks, that he thought hers very lovely, and by the readiness and propriety of his apologies, that he was a man of exceedingly good manners. He seemed about thirty, and though not handsome, had an agreeable person. Anne felt that she should like to know who he was.
照顾路易莎处理完她的事情，又闲逛了一会儿，他们回到了旅馆。随后，安妮迅速从自己的房间走到他们的餐厅时，当这位绅士从毗邻的公寓出来时，他差点撞到了他。她之前就猜想他和自己一样是个陌生人，认定回来时在两家客栈附近闲逛的一位相貌俊美的新郎就是他的仆人。主人和人都在哀悼，这都有助于这个想法。现在证明他和他们是同一家旅馆的。第二次见面虽然时间很短，但从这位绅士的外表来看，他认为她非常可爱；从他道歉时的准备和得体，也再次证明他是一个非常有礼貌的人。他看上去三十岁左右，虽然不算英俊，但为人却很和蔼可亲。安妮觉得她应该想知道他是谁。

They had nearly done breakfast, when the sound of a carriage, (almost the first they had heard since entering Lyme) drew half the party to the window. It was a gentleman’s carriage, a curricle, but only coming round from the stable-yard to the front door; somebody must be going away. It was driven by a servant in mourning.
他们快吃完早餐时，马车的声音（这几乎是他们进入莱姆以来第一次听到的声音）吸引了一半的人来到窗前。这是一辆绅士马车，一辆马车，但只从马厩院子到前门。一定有人要走了。车是由一个服丧的仆人驾驶的。

The word curricle made Charles Musgrove jump up that he might compare it with his own; the servant in mourning roused Anne’s curiosity, and the whole six were collected to look, by the time the owner of the curricle was to be seen issuing from the door amidst the bows and civilities of the household, and taking his seat, to drive off.
课程这个词让查尔斯·穆斯格罗夫跳了起来，他可以将它与自己的课程进行比较。哀悼的仆人激起了安妮的好奇心，六个人都聚集过来观看，这时，在全家人的鞠躬和礼貌中，看到课程的主人从门口出来，坐下来，开车离开。 。

‘Ah!’ cried Captain Wentworth, instantly, and with half a glance at Anne, ‘it is the very man we passed.’
“啊！”温特沃斯上尉立即喊道，看了安妮一眼，“这就是我们经过的那个人。”

The Miss Musgroves agreed to it; and having all kindly watched him as far up the hill as they could, they returned to the breakfast table. The waiter came into the room soon afterwards.
默斯格罗夫小姐同意了。所有人都尽其所能地善意地看着他，然后回到了早餐桌旁。很快，服务员就进了房间。

‘Pray,’ said Captain Wentworth, immediately, ‘can you tell us the name of the gentleman who is just gone away?’
“请问，”温特沃斯船长立即说道，“您能告诉我们刚刚离开的那位绅士的名字吗？”

‘Yes, Sir, a Mr Elliot, a gentleman of large fortune, came in last night from Sidmouth. Dare say you heard the carriage, sir, while you were at dinner; and going on now for Crewkherne, in his way to Bath and London.’
“是的，先生，一位富有的绅士埃利奥特先生昨晚从西德茅斯来到这里。先生，你敢说你在吃晚饭时听到了马车声吗？现在继续前往克鲁克恩，前往巴斯和伦敦。

‘Elliot!’ Many had looked on each other, and many had repeated the name, before all this had been got through, even by the smart rapidity of a waiter.
“埃利奥特！”许多人面面相觑，许多人重复着这个名字，甚至在这一切都说完之前，即使是以服务员的聪明速度。

‘Bless me!’ cried Mary; ‘it must be our cousin; it must be our Mr Elliot, it must, indeed! Charles, Anne, must not it? In mourning, you see, just as our Mr Elliot must be. How very extraordinary! In the very same inn with us! Anne, must not it be our Mr Elliot? my father’s next heir? Pray sir,’ turning to the waiter, ‘did not you hear, did not his servant say whether he belonged to the Kellynch family?’
“保佑我吧！”玛丽喊道。 “这一定是我们的表弟；一定是我们的埃利奥特先生，确实一定是！查尔斯、安妮，一定不是吗？你看，在哀悼中，就像我们的艾略特先生一样。多么非凡啊！和我们在同一家旅馆！安妮，难道不是我们的埃利奥特先生吗？我父亲的下一个继承人？请问先生，”转向侍者，“您没有听到吗，他的仆人没有说他是不是凯林奇家族的人吗？”

‘No, ma’am, he did not mention no particular family; but he said his master was a very rich gentleman, and would be a baronight some day.’
“不，女士，他没有提到任何特定的家庭；但他说他的主人是一位非常富有的绅士，有一天会成为男爵。

‘There! you see!’ cried Mary in an ecstasy, ‘just as I said! Heir to Sir Walter Elliot! I was sure that would come out, if it was so. Depend upon it, that is a circumstance which his servants take care to publish, wherever he goes. But, Anne, only conceive how extraordinary! I wish I had looked at him more. I wish we had been aware in time, who it was, that he might have been introduced to us. What a pity that we should not have been introduced to each other! Do you think he had the Elliot countenance? I hardly looked at him, I was looking at the horses; but I think he had something of the Elliot countenance, I wonder the arms did not strike me! Oh! the great-coat was hanging over the panel, and hid the arms, so it did; otherwise, I am sure, I should have observed them, and the livery too; if the servant had not been in mourning, one should have known him by the livery.’
'那里！你看！”玛丽欣喜若狂地喊道，“正如我所说的！沃尔特·埃利奥特爵士的继承人！我确信如果是这样的话，那件事一定会发生。相信吧，无论他走到哪里，他的仆人都会小心地公布这一情况。但是，安妮，想想多么非凡啊！我希望我当时能多看他一眼。我希望我们能及时意识到他是谁，以便有人把他介绍给我们。可惜我们不应该被介绍认识！你认为他有艾略特的面容吗？我几乎没有看他，而是看着马。但我觉得他的表情有点像埃利奥特，我不知道他的手臂没有击中我！哦！大衣挂在面板上，遮住了手臂，确实如此。否则，我确信，我应该观察他们，还有制服。如果仆人没有服丧，人们应该通过制服认出他来。

‘Putting all these very extraordinary circumstances together,’ said Captain Wentworth, ‘we must consider it to be the arrangement of Providence, that you should not be introduced to your cousin.’
“把所有这些非常不寻常的情况放在一起，”温特沃斯船长说，“我们必须认为这是上天的安排，你不应该被介绍给你的表弟。”

When she could command Mary’s attention, Anne quietly tried to convince her that their father and Mr Elliot had not, for many years, been on such terms as to make the power of attempting an introduction at all desirable.
当安妮能够引起玛丽的注意时，她悄悄地试图让她相信，多年来，他们的父亲和埃利奥特先生的关系并没有达到让尝试介绍的力量变得令人向往的程度。

At the same time, however, it was a secret gratification to herself to have seen her cousin, and to know that the future owner of Kellynch was undoubtedly a gentleman, and had an air of good sense. She would not, upon any account, mention her having met with him the second time; luckily Mary did not much attend to their having passed close by him in their earlier walk, but she would have felt quite ill-used by Anne’s having actually run against him in the passage, and received his very polite excuses, while she had never been near him at all; no, that cousinly little interview must remain a perfect secret.
但与此同时，她也暗暗庆幸自己见到了自己的表弟，并且知道凯林奇未来的主人无疑是一位绅士，而且很有见识。无论如何，她都不会提起她第二次见到他的事。幸运的是，玛丽并没有太在意他们在早些时候的散步中从他身边经过，但她会觉得安妮在路上与他撞在一起，并得到了他非常有礼貌的借口，这让她感到很受虐待，而她从来没有这样做过。完全靠近他；不，那次堂兄弟般的小采访必须绝对保密。

‘Of course,’ said Mary, ‘you will mention our seeing Mr Elliot, the next time you write to Bath. I think my father certainly ought to hear of it; do mention all about him.’
“当然，”玛丽说，“下次你写信给巴斯时，你会提到我们见到埃利奥特先生。我想我父亲当然应该知道这件事；请提及他的一切。

Anne avoided a direct reply, but it was just the circumstance which she considered as not merely unnecessary to be communicated, but as what ought to be suppressed. The offence which had been given her father, many years back, she knew; Elizabeth’s particular share in it she suspected; and that Mr Elliot’s idea always produced irritation in both was beyond a doubt. Mary never wrote to Bath herself; all the toil of keeping up a slow and unsatisfactory correspondence with Elizabeth fell on Anne.
安妮避免直接回答，但这正是她认为不仅没有必要传达而且应该压制的情况。她知道很多年前她父亲对她的冒犯。她怀疑伊丽莎白在这件事上有特殊的贡献。毫无疑问，埃利奥特先生的想法总是会激怒双方。玛丽本人从未给巴斯写过信；与伊丽莎白保持缓慢且不令人满意的通信的所有劳力都落在了安妮身上。

Breakfast had not been long over, when they were joined by Captain and Mrs Harville and Captain Benwick; with whom they had appointed to take their last walk about Lyme. They ought to be setting off for Uppercross by one, and in the mean while were to be all together, and out of doors as long as they could.
早餐刚结束不久，哈维尔船长夫妇和本威克船长也加入了进来。他们约好和他一起在莱姆附近进行最后一次散步。他们应该一起出发去厄珀克罗斯，同时要大家在一起，尽可能长时间地呆在户外。

Anne found Captain Benwick getting near her, as soon as they were all fairly in the street. Their conversation the preceding evening did not disincline him to seek her again; and they walked together some time, talking as before of Mr Scott and Lord Byron, and still as unable as before, and as unable as any other two readers, to think exactly alike of the merits of either, till something occasioned an almost general change amongst their party, and instead of Captain Benwick, she had Captain Harville by her side.
他们一到街上，安妮就发现本威克船长正在靠近她。前一天晚上他们的谈话并没有阻止他再次去找她。他们一起散步了一段时间，像以前一样谈论斯科特先生和拜伦勋爵，但仍然像以前一样，也像其他任何两个读者一样，无法对任何一个的优点进行完全相同的思考，直到某些事情引起了几乎普遍的变化在他们的队伍中，她身边不是本威克船长，而是哈维尔船长。

‘Miss Elliot,’ said he, speaking rather low, ‘you have done a good deed in making that poor fellow talk so much. I wish he could have such company oftener. It is bad for him, I know, to be shut up as he is; but what can we do? We cannot part.’
“埃利奥特小姐，”他声音很低地说，“你让那个可怜的家伙说了那么多话，这是一件好事。我希望他能经常有这样的陪伴。我知道，像他这样被关起来对他来说是不好的。但我们能做什么呢？我们不能分开。

‘No,’ said Anne, ‘that I can easily believe to be impossible; but in time, perhaps—we know what time does in every case of affliction, and you must remember, Captain Harville, that your friend may yet be called a young mourner—only last summer, I understand.’
“不，”安妮说，“我很容易相信这是不可能的；”但随着时间的推移，也许——我们知道时间对每一种痛苦的影响，你必须记住，哈维尔船长，你的朋友可能仍被称为年轻的哀悼者——据我所知，只是去年夏天。

‘Ay, true enough,’ (with a deep sigh) ‘only June.’
“啊，确实如此，”（深深地叹了口气）“只有六月。”

‘And not known to him, perhaps, so soon.’
“也许他还不知道，这么快。”

‘Not till the first week of August, when he came home from the Cape, just made into the Grappler. I was at Plymouth dreading to hear of him; he sent in letters, but the Grappler was under orders for Portsmouth. There the news must follow him, but who was to tell it? not I. I would as soon have been run up to the yard-arm. Nobody could do it, but that good fellow’ (pointing to Captain Wentworth.) ‘The Laconia had come into Plymouth the week before; no danger of her being sent to sea again. He stood his chance for the rest; wrote up for leave of absence, but without waiting the return, travelled night and day till he got to Portsmouth, rowed off to the Grappler that instant, and never left the poor fellow for a week. That’s what he did, and nobody else could have saved poor James. You may think, Miss Elliot, whether he is dear to us!’
“直到八月的第一周，当他从好望角回家时，他才刚刚成为格斗者。我在普利茅斯，害怕听到他的消息。他寄了信，但“抓斗者”号已接到朴茨茅斯的订单。消息肯定跟着他，但谁来告诉呢？不是我。我宁愿跑到帆桁臂那里。没有人能做到这一点，除了那个好人”（指着温特沃斯船长。）“拉科尼亚号已经在一周前抵达普利茅斯；她不会再有被送出海的危险。剩下的一切他都抓住了机会。他写了请假信，但没有等回来，就日以继夜地旅行，直到到达朴茨茅斯，立即划船前往格莱普勒号，一周之内都没有离开过这个可怜的家伙。他就是这么做的，没有人能拯救可怜的詹姆斯。艾略特小姐，你可能会想，他对我们来说是否是亲爱的！

Anne did think on the question with perfect decision, and said as much in reply as her own feeling could accomplish, or as his seemed able to bear, for he was too much affected to renew the subject, and when he spoke again, it was of something totally different.
安妮确实以完美的决定思考了这个问题，并尽她自己的感觉所能完成的回答，或者他似乎能够承受的回答，因为他太感动了，无法继续这个话题，当他再次说话时，这是完全不同的东西。

Mrs Harville’s giving it as her opinion that her husband would have quite walking enough by the time he reached home, determined the direction of all the party in what was to be their last walk; they would accompany them to their door, and then return and set off themselves. By all their calculations there was just time for this; but as they drew near the Cobb, there was such a general wish to walk along it once more, all were so inclined, and Louisa soon grew so determined, that the difference of a quarter of an hour, it was found, would be no difference at all; so with all the kind leave-taking, and all the kind interchange of invitations and promises which may be imagined, they parted from Captain and Mrs Harville at their own door, and still accompanied by Captain Benwick, who seemed to cling to them to the last, proceeded to make the proper adieus to the Cobb.
哈维尔夫人认为，她丈夫到家时已经走够了，这决定了一行人最后一次散步的方向。他们会陪他们到家门口，然后返回并自行出发。根据他们的计算，现在正是这样做的时间；但当他们走近科布河时，大家都普遍希望再次沿着这条河走一走，所有人都如此倾向于，路易莎很快就变得如此坚定，发现一刻钟的差异将是无足轻重的。完全不同；因此，经过所有善意的告别，以及所有可以想象的善意的邀请和承诺，他们在自家门口与哈维尔船长和夫人告别，但本威克船长仍然陪伴着他们，他似乎紧紧抓住他们的手。最后，继续向科布道别。

Anne found Captain Benwick again drawing near her. Lord Byron’s ‘dark blue seas’ could not fail of being brought forward by their present view, and she gladly gave him all her attention as long as attention was possible. It was soon drawn, perforce another way.
安妮发现本威克船长再次靠近她。拜伦勋爵的“深蓝色海洋”不可能不被他们目前的观点所提炼，她很高兴只要有可能，就把所有的注意力都集中在他身上。它很快就被画出来了，当然是用另一种方式。

There was too much wind to make the high part of the new Cobb pleasant for the ladies, and they agreed to get down the steps to the lower, and all were contented to pass quietly and carefully down the steep flight, excepting Louisa; she must be jumped down them by Captain Wentworth. In all their walks, he had had to jump her from the stiles; the sensation was delightful to her. The hardness of the pavement for her feet, made him less willing upon the present occasion; he did it, however. She was safely down, and instantly, to show her enjoyment, ran up the steps to be jumped down again. He advised her against it, thought the jar too great; but no, he reasoned and talked in vain, she smiled and said, ‘I am determined I will:’ he put out his hands; she was too precipitate by half a second, she fell on the pavement on the Lower Cobb, and was taken up lifeless! There was no wound, no blood, no visible bruise; but her eyes were closed, she breathed not, her face was like death. The horror of the moment to all who stood around!
风太大了，无法让新科布的高处让女士们感到舒服，他们同意走下台阶到较低的地方，所有人都满足于安静地、小心地走下陡峭的楼梯，除了路易莎。她一定是被温特沃斯船长跳下去的。在他们所有的散步中，他都不得不把她从栅栏上跳下来。这种感觉让她很愉快。她脚下的路面很硬，这让他在目前的情况下不太愿意。然而他做到了。她安全下来，立刻跑上台阶，又要跳下去，以示享受。他建议她不要这么做，因为他认为这个罐子太大了。但不，他推理和说话都是徒劳的，她微笑着说：“我决心我会的。”他伸出双手；她太急了半秒，摔倒在下科布的人行道上，被人抱起来，已经死了！没有伤口，没有血，也没有明显的瘀伤；但她的眼睛紧闭，没有呼吸，脸色如同死人。这一刻让周围的人都感到恐惧！

Captain Wentworth, who had caught her up, knelt with her in his arms, looking on her with a face as pallid as her own, in an agony of silence. ‘She is dead! she is dead!’ screamed Mary, catching hold of her husband, and contributing with his own horror to make him immoveable; and in another moment, Henrietta, sinking under the conviction, lost her senses too, and would have fallen on the steps, but for Captain Benwick and Anne, who caught and supported her between them.
温特沃斯上尉抓住了她，跪在怀里，用和她一样苍白的脸看着她，陷入了痛苦的沉默。 '她死了！ “她死了！”玛丽尖叫着，抓住她的丈夫，用自己的恐惧让他动弹不得。又过了一会儿，亨利埃塔在信念下沉了下去，也失去了知觉，要不是本威克船长和安妮一把抓住她，把她扶在中间，她就会摔倒在台阶上。

‘Is there no one to help me?’ were the first words which burst from Captain Wentworth, in a tone of despair, and as if all his own strength were gone.
“没有人来帮助我吗？”这是温特沃斯上尉脱口而出的第一句话，语气绝望，仿佛他自己所有的力量都耗尽了。

‘Go to him, go to him,’ cried Anne, ‘for heaven’s sake go to him. I can support her myself. Leave me, and go to him. Rub her hands, rub her temples; here are salts; take them, take them.’
“去找他，去找他，”安妮喊道，“看在老天爷的份上，去找他吧。”我自己可以养活她。离开我，去找他吧。搓揉她的手，揉搓她的太阳穴；这是盐；拿走他们，拿走他们。

Captain Benwick obeyed, and Charles at the same moment, disengaging himself from his wife, they were both with him; and Louisa was raised up and supported more firmly between them, and everything was done that Anne had prompted, but in vain; while Captain Wentworth, staggering against the wall for his support, exclaimed in the bitterest agony—
本威克船长服从了，查尔斯同时也脱离了他的妻子，他们都和他在一起。路易莎在他们中间站了起来，支撑得更加牢固，安妮催促的一切都完成了，但都是徒劳。温特沃斯上尉摇摇晃晃地靠在墙上寻求支撑，痛苦地喊道——

‘Oh God! her father and mother!’
'天啊！她的父亲和母亲！

‘A surgeon!’ said Anne.
“外科医生！”安妮说。

He caught the word; it seemed to rouse him at once, and saying only— ‘True, true, a surgeon this instant,’ was darting away, when Anne eagerly suggested—
他明白了这个词；它似乎立刻唤醒了他，只说了一句——“真的，真的，此刻是一名外科医生，”当安妮急切地建议时，他就飞快地走开了——

‘Captain Benwick, would not it be better for Captain Benwick? He knows where a surgeon is to be found.’
“本威克船长，这对本威克船长不是更好吗？”他知道在哪里可以找到外科医生。”

Every one capable of thinking felt the advantage of the idea, and in a moment (it was all done in rapid moments) Captain Benwick had resigned the poor corpse-like figure entirely to the brother’s care, and was off for the town with the utmost rapidity.
每个有思考能力的人都感受到了这个想法的好处，片刻之间（这一切都在很快的时间内完成）本威克船长将这个可怜的尸体完全交给了兄弟的照顾，并以最大的努力向镇上走去。速度。

As to the wretched party left behind, it could scarcely be said which of the three, who were completely rational, was suffering most: Captain Wentworth, Anne, or Charles, who, really a very affectionate brother, hung over Louisa with sobs of grief, and could only turn his eyes from one sister, to see the other in a state as insensible, or to witness the hysterical agitations of his wife, calling on him for help which he could not give.
至于剩下的可怜的一方，很难说三个完全理性的人中哪一个受苦最深：温特沃斯上尉，安妮，还是查尔斯，他真是一个非常慈爱的兄弟，悲伤地哭泣着路易莎，只能把目光从一个姐姐身上移开，看到另一位已经失去知觉，或者看到妻子歇斯底里地焦躁不安，向他求助，但他却无法给予。

Anne, attending with all the strength and zeal, and thought, which instinct supplied, to Henrietta, still tried, at intervals, to suggest comfort to the others, tried to quiet Mary, to animate Charles, to assuage the feelings of Captain Wentworth. Both seemed to look to her for directions.
安妮以本能提供的全部力量、热情和思想参加了亨丽埃塔的活动，她仍然时不时地试图向其他人提出安慰，试图让玛丽安静，让查尔斯活跃起来，缓和温特沃斯船长的感情。两人似乎都在向她寻求指示。

‘Anne, Anne,’ cried Charles, ‘What is to be done next? What, in heaven’s name, is to be done next?’
“安妮，安妮，”查尔斯喊道，“接下来要做什么？看在老天的份上，下一步该做什么？

Captain Wentworth’s eyes were also turned towards her.
温特沃斯上尉的目光也转向了她。

‘Had not she better be carried to the inn? Yes, I am sure: carry her gently to the inn.’
“最好把她抱到客栈去吗？”是的，我确定：轻轻地把她抱到旅馆去。”

‘Yes, yes, to the inn,’ repeated Captain Wentworth, comparatively collected, and eager to be doing something. ‘I will carry her myself. Musgrove, take care of the others.’
“是的，是的，去客栈。”温特沃斯船长重复道，他的表情相对平静，急于做点什么。 ‘我自己来抱她。默斯格罗夫，照顾好其他人。

By this time the report of the accident had spread among the workmen and boatmen about the Cobb, and many were collected near them, to be useful if wanted, at any rate, to enjoy the sight of a dead young lady, nay, two dead young ladies, for it proved twice as fine as the first report. To some of the best-looking of these good people Henrietta was consigned, for, though partially revived, she was quite helpless; and in this manner, Anne walking by her side, and Charles attending to his wife, they set forward, treading back with feelings unutterable, the ground, which so lately, so very lately, and so light of heart, they had passed along.
这时，事故的报道已经在科布河周围的工人和船夫中传开，许多人都聚集在他们附近，如果需要的话，无论如何，可以欣赏一位死去的年轻女士的景象，不，是两个死者。年轻女士们，事实证明，它比第一份报告好两倍。亨丽埃塔被托付给了这些好人中一些最漂亮的人，因为虽然部分复活了，但她还是很无助。就这样，安妮走在她身边，查尔斯照顾着他的妻子，他们向前走着，带着难以言喻的感情向后退，他们刚刚走过的土地是最近、最近、心情如此轻松的。

They were not off the Cobb, before the Harvilles met them. Captain Benwick had been seen flying by their house, with a countenance which showed something to be wrong; and they had set off immediately, informed and directed as they passed, towards the spot. Shocked as Captain Harville was, he brought senses and nerves that could be instantly useful; and a look between him and his wife decided what was to be done. She must be taken to their house; all must go to their house; and await the surgeon’s arrival there. They would not listen to scruples: he was obeyed; they were all beneath his roof; and while Louisa, under Mrs Harville’s direction, was conveyed up stairs, and given possession of her own bed, assistance, cordials, restoratives were supplied by her husband to all who needed them.
在哈维尔夫妇遇见他们之前，他们还没有离开科布河。有人看到本威克上尉飞过他们的房子，他的表情显得有些不对劲。他们立即出发，经过通知并得到指示后，就前往了那个地点。尽管哈维尔船长很震惊，但他带来了可以立即派上用场的感官和神经。他和妻子看了一眼就决定了要做什么。必须带她去他们家；所有人都必须回家；并等待外科医生的到来。他们不听顾忌：他被服从了；他被服从了。他们都在他的屋檐下；当路易莎在哈维尔夫人的指导下被抬上楼梯并拥有自己的床时，她的丈夫向所有需要的人提供了帮助、兴奋剂和恢复剂。

Louisa had once opened her eyes, but soon closed them again, without apparent consciousness. This had been a proof of life, however, of service to her sister; and Henrietta, though perfectly incapable of being in the same room with Louisa, was kept, by the agitation of hope and fear, from a return of her own insensibility. Mary, too, was growing calmer.
路易莎曾经睁开过眼睛，但很快又闭上了，没有明显的知觉。然而，这是她还活着的证明，也是她为姐姐服务的证明。亨丽埃塔虽然完全无法与路易莎共处一室，但在希望和恐惧的搅动下，她还是没有恢复麻木不仁的状态。玛丽也变得平静了。

The surgeon was with them almost before it had seemed possible. They were sick with horror, while he examined; but he was not hopeless. The head had received a severe contusion, but he had seen greater injuries recovered from: he was by no means hopeless; he spoke cheerfully.
几乎在看起来可能之前，外科医生就到了他们身边。当他检查时，他们都惊恐万分。但他并非绝望。头部受到了严重的挫伤，但他看到了更大的伤势已经痊愈：他绝不是绝望的；他还活着。他兴高采烈地说。

That he did not regard it as a desperate case, that he did not say a few hours must end it, was at first felt, beyond the hope of most; and the ecstasy of such a reprieve, the rejoicing, deep and silent, after a few fervent ejaculations of gratitude to Heaven had been offered, may be conceived.
起初，大多数人都觉得他并不认为这是一个绝望的案件，也没有说几个小时必须结束它。在对上天表达了几句热烈的感激之情之后，这种缓和的狂喜、深沉而沉默的喜悦是可以想象的。

The tone, the look, with which ‘Thank God!’ was uttered by Captain Wentworth, Anne was sure could never be forgotten by her; nor the sight of him afterwards, as he sat near a table, leaning over it with folded arms and face concealed, as if overpowered by the various feelings of his soul, and trying by prayer and reflection to calm them.
温特沃斯上尉说出“感谢上帝！”时的语气、神情，安妮确信她永远不会忘记；也没有看到他后来坐在一张桌子旁边，双臂交叉地靠在桌子上，隐藏着脸，仿佛被他灵魂的各种感觉所压倒，并试图通过祈祷和反思来平静它们。

Louisa’s limbs had escaped. There was no injury but to the head.
路易莎的四肢逃脱了。除了头部外，没有受伤。

It now became necessary for the party to consider what was best to be done, as to their general situation. They were now able to speak to each other and consult. That Louisa must remain where she was, however distressing to her friends to be involving the Harvilles in such trouble, did not admit a doubt. Her removal was impossible. The Harvilles silenced all scruples; and, as much as they could, all gratitude. They had looked forward and arranged everything before the others began to reflect. Captain Benwick must give up his room to them, and get another bed elsewhere; and the whole was settled. They were only concerned that the house could accommodate no more; and yet perhaps, by ‘putting the children away in the maid’s room, or swinging a cot somewhere,’ they could hardly bear to think of not finding room for two or three besides, supposing they might wish to stay; though, with regard to any attendance on Miss Musgrove, there need not be the least uneasiness in leaving her to Mrs Harville’s care entirely. Mrs Harville was a very experienced nurse, and her nursery-maid, who had lived with her long, and gone about with her everywhere, was just such another. Between these two, she could want no possible attendance by day or night. And all this was said with a truth and sincerity of feeling irresistible.
现在，党有必要根据他们的总体情况考虑最好的做法。他们现在能够互相交谈并进行协商。毫无疑问，路易莎必须留在原地，无论哈维尔夫妇卷入这样的麻烦让她的朋友们多么痛苦。她的离开是不可能的。哈维尔一家平息了所有顾虑。并且尽他们所能地表达感激之情。在其他人反应过来之前，他们就已经预见并安排好了一切。本威克船长必须将自己的房间让给他们，并在别处另找一张床。一切都解决了。他们只是担心房子不能容纳更多的人了；然而，也许，通过“把孩子们放在女佣的房间里，或者在某个地方摆一张婴儿床”，他们很难忍受找不到另外两三个人的空间，假设他们想留下来；不过，就默斯格罗夫小姐的任何照顾而言，将她完全交给哈维尔夫人照顾并不会有丝毫不安。哈维尔夫人是一位非常有经验的护士，而她的保姆则与她一起生活了很长时间，到处都跟着她，她就是这样的另一个人。在这两者之间，她可能不希望白天或晚上都出现。这一切都是用一种令人无法抗拒的真实和真诚说出来的。

Charles, Henrietta, and Captain Wentworth were the three in consultation, and for a little while it was only an interchange of perplexity and terror. ‘Uppercross, the necessity of some one’s going to Uppercross; the news to be conveyed; how it could be broken to Mr and Mrs Musgrove; the lateness of the morning; an hour already gone since they ought to have been off; the impossibility of being in tolerable time.’ At first, they were capable of nothing more to the purpose than such exclamations; but, after a while, Captain Wentworth, exerting himself, said—
查尔斯、亨丽埃塔和温特沃斯上尉三人正在商议，有一阵子，他们只是互相困惑和恐惧。 “厄普克罗斯，某人去厄珀克罗斯的必要性；要传达的消息；如何向穆斯格罗夫先生和夫人透露此事？早上很晚；距离他们应该出发的时间已经过去了一个小时；起初，他们除了这样的感叹之外，什么也做不了。但过了一会儿，温特沃斯上尉竭尽全力说道——

‘We must be decided, and without the loss of another minute. Every minute is valuable. Some one must resolve on being off for Uppercross instantly. Musgrove, either you or I must go.’
“我们必须做出决定，不能再浪费一分钟。每一分钟都很有价值。必须有人下定决心立即前往厄普克罗斯。默斯格罗夫，要么你要么我必须走。

Charles agreed, but declared his resolution of not going away. He would be as little incumbrance as possible to Captain and Mrs Harville; but as to leaving his sister in such a state, he neither ought, nor would. So far it was decided; and Henrietta at first declared the same. She, however, was soon persuaded to think differently. The usefulness of her staying! She who had not been able to remain in Louisa’s room, or to look at her, without sufferings which made her worse than helpless! She was forced to acknowledge that she could do no good, yet was still unwilling to be away, till, touched by the thought of her father and mother, she gave it up; she consented, she was anxious to be at home.
查尔斯同意了，但宣布他决心不离开。他将尽可能减少哈维尔船长和夫人的负担；但至于让他的妹妹陷入这样的境地，他不应该，也不愿意。至此就已经决定了；亨丽埃塔一开始也是这么说的。然而，她很快就被说服以不同的方式思考。她留下来还有什么用呢！她不能留在路易莎的房间里，也不能看着她，而没有遭受痛苦，这让她比无助更糟糕！她被迫承认自己无能为力，却又不愿意离开，直到想到父母的感动，才放弃了；她同意了，她很想回家。

The plan had reached this point, when Anne, coming quietly down from Louisa’s room, could not but hear what followed, for the parlour door was open.
计划已经到了这一步，当安妮悄悄地从路易莎的房间下来时，她不能不听到接下来发生的事情，因为客厅的门是开着的。

‘Then it is settled, Musgrove,’ cried Captain Wentworth, ‘that you stay, and that I take care of your sister home. But as to the rest, as to the others, if one stays to assist Mrs Harville, I think it need be only one. Mrs Charles Musgrove will, of course, wish to get back to her children; but if Anne will stay, no one so proper, so capable as Anne.’
“那么，默斯格罗夫，”温特沃斯上尉喊道，“你留下来，我照顾你妹妹的家。”但至于其他人，至于其他人，如果有人留下来协助哈维尔夫人，我认为只需要一个人。查尔斯·穆斯格罗夫夫人当然希望回到她的孩子身边。但如果安妮愿意留下来，没有人比安妮更合适、更能干了。”

She paused a moment to recover from the emotion of hearing herself so spoken of. The other two warmly agreed with what he said, and she then appeared.
她停顿了一会儿，才从听到自己这样说自己的情绪中恢复过来。另外两人热烈赞同他的话，然后她就出现了。

‘You will stay, I am sure; you will stay and nurse her;’ cried he, turning to her and speaking with a glow, and yet a gentleness, which seemed almost restoring the past. She coloured deeply, and he recollected himself and moved away. She expressed herself most willing, ready, happy to remain. ‘It was what she had been thinking of, and wishing to be allowed to do. A bed on the floor in Louisa’s room would be sufficient for her, if Mrs Harville would but think so.’
“我确信你会留下来； “你留下来照顾她吧。”他转过身对她喊道，语气中充满了热情，但又很温柔，似乎几乎又回到了过去。她脸色深沉，他回过神来，走开了。她表示自己非常愿意、准备好、很高兴留下来。 “这是她一直在想的事情，也希望被允许这样做。如果哈维尔夫人这么认为的话，路易莎房间地板上的一张床就足够她用了。

One thing more, and all seemed arranged. Though it was rather desirable that Mr and Mrs Musgrove should be previously alarmed by some share of delay; yet the time required by the Uppercross horses to take them back, would be a dreadful extension of suspense; and Captain Wentworth proposed, and Charles Musgrove agreed, that it would be much better for him to take a chaise from the inn, and leave Mr Musgrove’s carriage and horses to be sent home the next morning early, when there would be the farther advantage of sending an account of Louisa’s night.
还有一件事，一切似乎都安排好了。尽管穆斯格罗夫先生和夫人事先对某些延误感到震惊是相当可取的；但然而厄珀克罗斯的马匹将他们带回来所需的时间将是悬念的可怕延伸。温特沃斯上尉提议，查尔斯·穆斯格罗夫同意了，他最好从客栈拿一辆马车，把穆斯格罗夫先生的马车和马匹留在第二天一早送回家，这样会有更大的好处。发送路易莎之夜的报道。

Captain Wentworth now hurried off to get everything ready on his part, and to be soon followed by the two ladies. When the plan was made known to Mary, however, there was an end of all peace in it. She was so wretched and so vehement, complained so much of injustice in being expected to go away instead of Anne; Anne, who was nothing to Louisa, while she was her sister, and had the best right to stay in Henrietta’s stead! Why was not she to be as useful as Anne? And to go home without Charles, too, without her husband! No, it was too unkind. And in short, she said more than her husband could long withstand, and as none of the others could oppose when he gave way, there was no help for it; the change of Mary for Anne was inevitable.
温特沃斯船长现在急忙出发去准备一切，很快两位女士也跟了上去。然而，当玛丽知道这个计划时，一切平静都结束了。她是那么可怜，那么激烈，抱怨说她要代替安妮离开，这是不公平的。安妮对路易莎来说什么都不是，但她是她的妹妹，她最有权利代替亨利埃塔留下来！为什么她不能像安妮那样有用呢？回家时也没有查尔斯，也没有她的丈夫！不行，这太不厚道了。简而言之，她所说的话超出了她丈夫长期承受的范围，而且当他让步时，其他人都无法反对，所以没有任何帮助；玛丽对安妮的改变是不可避免的。

Anne had never submitted more reluctantly to the jealous and ill-judging claims of Mary; but so it must be, and they set off for the town, Charles taking care of his sister, and Captain Benwick attending to her. She gave a moment’s recollection, as they hurried along, to the little circumstances which the same spots had witnessed earlier in the morning. There she had listened to Henrietta’s schemes for Dr Shirley’s leaving Uppercross; farther on, she had first seen Mr Elliot; a moment seemed all that could now be given to any one but Louisa, or those who were wrapt up in her welfare.
安妮从来没有像现在这样不情愿地屈服于玛丽的嫉妒和错误的要求。但事情一定是这样的，他们出发去镇上，查尔斯照顾他的妹妹，本威克船长照顾她。他们匆匆赶路时，她短暂地回忆了一下早上早些时候在同一地点所目睹的一些小情况。在那里，她听到了亨丽埃塔为雪莉医生离开厄普克罗斯而制定的计划。再往前走，她第一次见到了埃利奥特先生。现在看来，除了路易莎，或者那些为她的幸福而着迷的人之外，任何人都可以得到片刻的时间。

Captain Benwick was most considerately attentive to her; and, united as they all seemed by the distress of the day, she felt an increasing degree of good-will towards him, and a pleasure even in thinking that it might, perhaps, be the occasion of continuing their acquaintance.
本威克船长对她非常体贴、殷勤。尽管他们似乎因当天的痛苦而团结在一起，但她对他的好感与日俱增，甚至一想到这可能是他们继续相识的机会，她就感到高兴。

Captain Wentworth was on the watch for them, and a chaise and four in waiting, stationed for their convenience in the lowest part of the street; but his evident surprise and vexation at the substitution of one sister for the other, the change in his countenance, the astonishment, the expressions begun and suppressed, with which Charles was listened to, made but a mortifying reception of Anne; or must at least convince her that she was valued only as she could be useful to Louisa.
温特沃斯上尉正在监视着他们，为了方便他们，一辆四辆马车停在街道的最低处。但是，他对一个妹妹替换另一个妹妹所表现出的明显的惊讶和烦恼，他的脸色的变化，惊讶，以及听查尔斯说话时开始和压抑的表情，使安妮受到了一种令人难堪的接待。或者至少必须让她相信，只有当她对路易莎有用时，她才受到重视。

She endeavoured to be composed, and to be just. Without emulating the feelings of an Emma towards her Henry, she would have attended on Louisa with a zeal above the common claims of regard, for his sake; and she hoped he would not long be so unjust as to suppose she would shrink unnecessarily from the office of a friend.
她努力保持镇静、公正。如果不效仿艾玛对亨利的感情，她会为了他而以一种超越一般尊重的热情来照顾路易莎。她希望他不会太不公正，认为她会不必要地回避朋友的办公室。

In the mean while she was in the carriage. He had handed them both in, and placed himself between them; and in this manner, under these circumstances, full of astonishment and emotion to Anne, she quitted Lyme. How the long stage would pass; how it was to affect their manners; what was to be their sort of intercourse, she could not foresee. It was all quite natural, however. He was devoted to Henrietta; always turning towards her; and when he spoke at all, always with the view of supporting her hopes and raising her spirits. In general, his voice and manner were studiously calm. To spare Henrietta from agitation seemed the governing principle. Once only, when she had been grieving over the last ill-judged, ill-fated walk to the Cobb, bitterly lamenting that it ever had been thought of, he burst forth, as if wholly overcome—
与此同时，她还在马车上。他把他们俩都交了出来，然后站在他们中间。就这样，在这种情况下，安妮满怀惊讶和激动地离开了莱姆。漫长的阶段将如何度过？这会如何影响他们的举止；她无法预见他们的交往会是什么样。然而，这一切都很自然。他对亨利埃塔一往情深。总是转向她；当他说话时，总是为了支持她的希望并振奋她的精神。总的来说，他的声音和态度都刻意平静。让亨丽埃塔免于激动似乎是首要原则。只有一次，当她为最后一次错误判断、命运多舛的步行走向科布而悲伤，痛苦地哀叹从未想到过这一点时，他爆发了，仿佛完全被征服了——

‘Don’t talk of it, don’t talk of it,’ he cried. ‘Oh God! that I had not given way to her at the fatal moment! Had I done as I ought! But so eager and so resolute! Dear, sweet Louisa!’
“别再说了，别再说了，”他喊道。 '天啊！在致命的时刻我没有让位给她！如果我做了我应该做的事就好了！但又是那么的热切，那么的坚决！亲爱的，可爱的路易莎！

Anne wondered whether it ever occurred to him now, to question the justness of his own previous opinion as to the universal felicity and advantage of firmness of character; and whether it might not strike him that, like all other qualities of the mind, it should have its proportions and limits. She thought it could scarcely escape him to feel that a persuadable temper might sometimes be as much in favour of happiness as a very resolute character.
安妮想知道他现在是否曾经想过，质疑他自己之前关于性格坚定的普遍幸福和优势的看法是否正确；但他的看法是否正确？他是否会意识到，就像心灵的所有其他品质一样，它也应该有其比例和限制。她想，他很难不感到，有时，一种容易被说服的脾气可能和一个非常坚决的性格一样有利于幸福。

They got on fast. Anne was astonished to recognise the same hills and the same objects so soon. Their actual speed, heightened by some dread of the conclusion, made the road appear but half as long as on the day before. It was growing quite dusk, however, before they were in the neighbourhood of Uppercross, and there had been total silence among them for some time, Henrietta leaning back in the corner, with a shawl over her face, giving the hope of her having cried herself to sleep; when, as they were going up their last hill, Anne found herself all at once addressed by Captain Wentworth. In a low, cautious voice, he said: —
他们进展得很快。安妮惊讶地发现，这么快就认出了同样的山丘和同样的物体。他们的实际速度，由于对结论的恐惧而加快，使得道路看起来只有前一天的一半长。然而，在他们到达厄普克罗斯附近之前，天已经完全黄昏了，他们之间已经有一段时间完全沉默了，亨利埃塔向后靠在角落里，脸上蒙着一条围巾，希望她已经哭过。她自己去睡觉；当他们爬上最后一座山时，安妮发现温特沃斯船长突然向她讲话。他用低沉而谨慎的声音说道：

‘I have been considering what we had best do. She must not appear at first. She could not stand it. I have been thinking whether you had not better remain in the carriage with her, while I go in and break it to Mr and Mrs Musgrove. Do you think this is a good plan?’
“我一直在考虑我们最好做什么。她一开始就不能出现。她无法忍受。我一直在想，你是否最好和她一起留在马车里，而我进去告诉默斯格罗夫先生和夫人。你认为这是一个好计划吗？

She did: he was satisfied, and said no more. But the remembrance of the appeal remained a pleasure to her, as a proof of friendship, and of deference for her judgement, a great pleasure; and when it became a sort of parting proof, its value did not lessen.
她做到了：他满意了，不再多说什么。但回忆起这次上诉对她来说仍然是一种乐趣，作为友谊的证明，以及对她判断的尊重，这是一种巨大的乐趣。当它成为一种离别的证明时，它的价值并没有减少。

When the distressing communication at Uppercross was over, and he had seen the father and mother quite as composed as could be hoped, and the daughter all the better for being with them, he announced his intention of returning in the same carriage to Lyme; and when the horses were baited, he was off.
当厄普克罗斯的令人痛苦的交流结束后，他看到父亲和母亲如所希望的那样镇静，女儿也因为和他们在一起而变得更好，他宣布打算乘坐同一辆马车返回莱姆。当马被引诱后，他就出发了。

(End of volume one.)
（第一卷结束。）

Chapter 13
第13章

The remainder of Anne’s time at Uppercross, comprehending only two days, was spent entirely at the Mansion House; and she had the satisfaction of knowing herself extremely useful there, both as an immediate companion, and as assisting in all those arrangements for the future, which, in Mr and Mrs Musgrove’s distressed state of spirits, would have been difficulties.
安妮在厄普克罗斯的剩余时间，只有两天，全部是在官邸度过的。她很满意，因为她知道自己在那里非常有用，既可以作为直接的伴侣，也可以协助未来的所有安排，而在默斯格罗夫先生和夫人精神上的痛苦状态下，这将是困难的。

They had an early account from Lyme the next morning. Louisa was much the same. No symptoms worse than before had appeared. Charles came a few hours afterwards, to bring a later and more particular account. He was tolerably cheerful. A speedy cure must not be hoped, but everything was going on as well as the nature of the case admitted. In speaking of the Harvilles, he seemed unable to satisfy his own sense of their kindness, especially of Mrs Harville’s exertions as a nurse. ‘She really left nothing for Mary to do. He and Mary had been persuaded to go early to their inn last night. Mary had been hysterical again this morning. When he came away, she was going to walk out with Captain Benwick, which, he hoped, would do her good. He almost wished she had been prevailed on to come home the day before; but the truth was, that Mrs Harville left nothing for anybody to do.’
第二天早上，他们从莱姆那里得到了一份早期报告。路易莎也差不多。没有出现比以前更严重的症状。几个小时后查尔斯来了，带来了后来更具体的叙述。他还算开朗。不能指望迅速治愈，但一切都在发生，案件的性质也已得到承认。在谈到哈维尔一家时，他似乎无法满足自己对他们善良的感觉，尤其是哈维尔夫人作为护士的努力。 “她真的没有给玛丽留下什么可做的。昨晚他和玛丽被说服早点去他们的旅馆。今天早上玛丽又歇斯底里了。当他离开时，她打算和本威克船长一起出去，他希望这对她有好处。他几乎希望她前一天就被说服回家了。但事实是，哈维尔夫人没有给任何人留下任何事可做。

Charles was to return to Lyme the same afternoon, and his father had at first half a mind to go with him, but the ladies could not consent. It would be going only to multiply trouble to the others, and increase his own distress; and a much better scheme followed and was acted upon. A chaise was sent for from Crewkherne, and Charles conveyed back a far more useful person in the old nursery-maid of the family, one who having brought up all the children, and seen the very last, the lingering and long-petted Master Harry, sent to school after his brothers, was now living in her deserted nursery to mend stockings and dress all the blains and bruises she could get near her, and who, consequently, was only too happy in being allowed to go and help nurse dear Miss Louisa. Vague wishes of getting Sarah thither, had occurred before to Mrs Musgrove and Henrietta; but without Anne, it would hardly have been resolved on, and found practicable so soon.
查尔斯当天下午就要返回莱姆，他的父亲一开始还想跟他一起去，但女士们却不能同意。这只会给别人增加麻烦，也会增加自己的痛苦；随后出现了一个更好的计划并付诸实施。从克鲁克恩送来了一辆躺椅，查尔斯带回了一个更有用的人，那就是家里的老保姆，她抚养了所有的孩子，并见到了最后一个，挥之不去、长期宠爱的哈利主人。继他的兄弟之后被送去上学的她现在住在她废弃的托儿所里，修补袜子并包扎她可能靠近的所有痘痘和瘀伤，因此，她很高兴被允许去帮助护理亲爱的小姐路易莎。穆斯格罗夫夫人和亨丽埃塔以前曾模糊地希望带莎拉去那里。但如果没有安妮，这个问题就很难得到解决，也不会这么快就变得可行。

They were indebted, the next day, to Charles Hayter, for all the minute knowledge of Louisa, which it was so essential to obtain every twenty-four hours. He made it his business to go to Lyme, and his account was still encouraging. The intervals of sense and consciousness were believed to be stronger. Every report agreed in Captain Wentworth’s appearing fixed in Lyme.
第二天，他们感谢查尔斯·海特，感谢他对路易莎的所有详细了解，每二十四小时获得这些知识是非常重要的。他以前往莱姆为己任，而他的叙述仍然令人鼓舞。感觉和意识的间隔被认为更强。所有报告都一致认为温特沃斯上尉出现在莱姆。

Anne was to leave them on the morrow, an event which they all dreaded. ‘What should they do without her? They were wretched comforters for one another.’ And so much was said in this way, that Anne thought she could not do better than impart among them the general inclination to which she was privy, and persuaded them all to go to Lyme at once. She had little difficulty; it was soon determined that they would go; go to-morrow, fix themselves at the inn, or get into lodgings, as it suited, and there remain till dear Louisa could be moved. They must be taking off some trouble from the good people she was with; they might at least relieve Mrs Harville from the care of her own children; and in short, they were so happy in the decision, that Anne was delighted with what she had done, and felt that she could not spend her last morning at Uppercross better than in assisting their preparations, and sending them off at an early hour, though her being left to the solitary range of the house was the consequence.
安妮明天就要离开他们，这是他们都害怕的事情。 ‘没有她他们该怎么办？他们都是可怜的互相安慰者。’这样说了这么多，安妮觉得她最好的办法就是向他们传达她所知道的普遍倾向，并说服他们立即去莱姆。她没有遇到什么困难；很快就决定他们要去；明天就去旅馆，或者在合适的时候入住旅馆，一直待到亲爱的路易莎被搬走为止。他们一定是在为她身边的好人除掉一些麻烦；他们至少可以让哈维尔夫人摆脱对自己孩子的照顾；简而言之，他们对这个决定非常高兴，安妮对自己所做的事情感到很高兴，并觉得她在厄普克罗斯的最后一个早上最好的方式就是帮助他们做好准备，并早早送他们离开，尽管结果是她被留在房子的偏僻范围内。

She was the last, excepting the little boys at the cottage, she was the very last, the only remaining one of all that had filled and animated both houses, of all that had given Uppercross its cheerful character. A few days had made a change indeed!
她是最后一个，除了小屋里的小男孩之外，她是最后一个，也是唯一剩下的一个，所有的人都充满了两座房子，充满了活力，所有的人都赋予了厄普克罗斯欢快的性格。几天的时间，确实发生了变化！

If Louisa recovered, it would all be well again. More than former happiness would be restored. There could not be a doubt, to her mind there was none, of what would follow her recovery. A few months hence, and the room now so deserted, occupied but by her silent, pensive self, might be filled again with all that was happy and gay, all that was glowing and bright in prosperous love, all that was most unlike Anne Elliot!
如果路易莎康复了，一切都会好起来的。比以前更多的幸福将会恢复。毫无疑问，在她看来，康复后会发生什么。几个月后，这个房间现在如此荒凉，只剩下她沉默、沉思的自我，可能会再次充满快乐和快乐的一切，一切在繁荣的爱情中闪闪发光和明亮的一切，所有这些最不像安妮·埃利奥特的东西！

An hour’s complete leisure for such reflections as these, on a dark November day, a small thick rain almost blotting out the very few objects ever to be discerned from the windows, was enough to make the sound of Lady Russell’s carriage exceedingly welcome; and yet, though desirous to be gone, she could not quit the Mansion House, or look an adieu to the Cottage, with its black, dripping and comfortless veranda, or even notice through the misty glasses the last humble tenements of the village, without a saddened heart. Scenes had passed in Uppercross which made it precious. It stood the record of many sensations of pain, once severe, but now softened; and of some instances of relenting feeling, some breathings of friendship and reconciliation, which could never be looked for again, and which could never cease to be dear. She left it all behind her, all but the recollection that such things had been.
在一个漆黑的十一月的一天，一场小雨几乎遮盖了窗外极少数的物体，整整一个小时的空闲时间进行这样的思考，足以让拉塞尔夫人的马车声变得非常受欢迎；然而，虽然她很想离开，但她却无法离开宅邸，也无法告别那座漆黑、滴着水、不舒服的阳台的小屋，甚至无法透过雾蒙蒙的玻璃注意到村子里最后几间简陋的公寓，一颗悲伤的心。厄珀克罗斯的一幕幕场景让它显得弥足珍贵。它记录了许多疼痛的感觉，曾经很剧烈，但现在已经减轻了。还有一些温柔的感觉，一些友谊与和解的气息，这些都永远不会再被寻找，而且永远不会停止珍贵。她把一切都抛在了脑后，只留下了曾经发生过这样的事情的回忆。

Anne had never entered Kellynch since her quitting Lady Russell’s house in September. It had not been necessary, and the few occasions of its being possible for her to go to the Hall she had contrived to evade and escape from. Her first return was to resume her place in the modern and elegant apartments of the Lodge, and to gladden the eyes of its mistress.
自从九月离开拉塞尔夫人家以来，安妮就再也没有进过凯林奇。这是没有必要的，而且她有几次可能去大厅，她都设法逃避和逃脱。她第一次回来是回到旅馆现代而优雅的公寓里，并让女主人高兴不已。

There was some anxiety mixed with Lady Russell’s joy in meeting her. She knew who had been frequenting Uppercross. But happily, either Anne was improved in plumpness and looks, or Lady Russell fancied her so; and Anne, in receiving her compliments on the occasion, had the amusement of connecting them with the silent admiration of her cousin, and of hoping that she was to be blessed with a second spring of youth and beauty.
拉塞尔夫人见到她的喜悦中夹杂着一些焦虑。她知道谁经常光顾厄普克罗斯。但令人高兴的是，要么是安妮的身材和容貌得到了改善，要么是拉塞尔夫人如此喜欢她；安妮在接受她的赞美时，很有趣地将这些赞美与她表弟默默的钦佩联系起来，并希望她能获得青春和美丽的第二春。

When they came to converse, she was soon sensible of some mental change. The subjects of which her heart had been full on leaving Kellynch, and which she had felt slighted, and been compelled to smother among the Musgroves, were now become but of secondary interest. She had lately lost sight even of her father and sister and Bath. Their concerns had been sunk under those of Uppercross; and when Lady Russell reverted to their former hopes and fears, and spoke her satisfaction in the house in Camden Place, which had been taken, and her regret that Mrs Clay should still be with them, Anne would have been ashamed to have it known how much more she was thinking of Lyme and Louisa Musgrove, and all her acquaintance there; how much more interesting to her was the home and the friendship of the Harvilles and Captain Benwick, than her own father’s house in Camden Place, or her own sister’s intimacy with Mrs Clay. She was actually forced to exert herself to meet Lady Russell with anything like the appearance of equal solicitude, on topics which had by nature the first claim on her.
当他们开始交谈时，她很快就感觉到精神上发生了一些变化。离开凯林奇时，她满心满心的话题，以及她感到受到轻视、被迫在穆斯格罗夫家族中窒息的话题，现在都变成了次要的兴趣。最近她甚至看不见她的父亲、姐姐和巴斯。他们的担忧已经被厄普克罗斯的担忧所淹没。当拉塞尔夫人回到他们以前的希望和恐惧，并说出她对卡姆登广场的房子感到满意时，这所房子被占领了，她对克莱夫人仍然和他们在一起感到遗憾，安妮如果知道她是如何做的，她会感到羞愧。她更想的是莱姆和路易莎·默斯格罗夫，以及她在那里的所有熟人。对她来说，哈维尔一家和本威克船长的家和友谊比她父亲在卡姆登广场的房子，或者她自己的妹妹与克莱夫人的亲密关系更有趣。事实上，她被迫以同样关心的态度去会见拉塞尔夫人，讨论的话题本质上是她最关心的。

There was a little awkwardness at first in their discourse on another subject. They must speak of the accident at Lyme. Lady Russell had not been arrived five minutes the day before, when a full account of the whole had burst on her; but still it must be talked of, she must make enquiries, she must regret the imprudence, lament the result, and Captain Wentworth’s name must be mentioned by both. Anne was conscious of not doing it so well as Lady Russell. She could not speak the name, and look straight forward to Lady Russell’s eye, till she had adopted the expedient of telling her briefly what she thought of the attachment between him and Louisa. When this was told, his name distressed her no longer.
他们在谈论另一个话题时一开始有些尴尬。他们必须谈论莱姆事故。前一天，拉塞尔夫人到达还不到五分钟，她就突然对整个事件进行了全面的叙述。但它仍然必须被谈论，她必须进行询问，她必须后悔自己的轻率，哀叹结果，而且温特沃斯船长的名字必须被两人提及。安妮意识到自己做得不如拉塞尔夫人。她无法说出这个名字，也无法直视拉塞尔夫人的眼睛，直到她采取了权宜之计，简短地告诉她她对他和路易莎之间的依恋的看法。听到这件事后，他的名字不再让她感到痛苦。

Lady Russell had only to listen composedly, and wish them happy, but internally her heart revelled in angry pleasure, in pleased contempt, that the man who at twenty-three had seemed to understand somewhat of the value of an Anne Elliot, should, eight years afterwards, be charmed by a Louisa Musgrove.
拉塞尔夫人只需平静地听着，祝他们幸福，但内心却陶醉在愤怒的快乐和愉快的蔑视中，这个二十三岁的男人似乎多少了解安妮·埃利奥特的价值，应该，八多年后，她被路易莎·穆斯格罗夫迷住了。

The first three or four days passed most quietly, with no circumstance to mark them excepting the receipt of a note or two from Lyme, which found their way to Anne, she could not tell how, and brought a rather improving account of Louisa. At the end of that period, Lady Russell’s politeness could repose no longer, and the fainter self-threatenings of the past became in a decided tone, ‘I must call on Mrs Croft; I really must call upon her soon. Anne, have you courage to go with me, and pay a visit in that house? It will be some trial to us both.’
最初的三四天过得非常平静，除了收到莱姆寄来的一两张便条之外，没有任何情况可以标记它们，这些便条找到了安妮的方式，她不知道如何，并带来了对路易莎的相当改进的描述。到了最后，拉塞尔夫人的礼貌再也无法平静，过去那种微弱的自我威胁变成了坚决的语气：“我必须去拜访克罗夫特夫人；我必须去拜访一下克罗夫特夫人。”我真的必须尽快拜访她。安妮，你有勇气和我一起去那所房子参观一下吗？这对我们俩来说都是一次考验。

Anne did not shrink from it; on the contrary, she truly felt as she said, in observing—
安妮并没有因此而退缩。相反，正如她所说，她在观察中确实感受到了——

‘I think you are very likely to suffer the most of the two; your feelings are less reconciled to the change than mine. By remaining in the neighbourhood, I am become inured to it.’
“我认为你很可能在这两者中遭受最多的痛苦；你的感受比我的更不适应这种变化。留在附近，我已经习惯了。”

She could have said more on the subject; for she had in fact so high an opinion of the Crofts, and considered her father so very fortunate in his tenants, felt the parish to be so sure of a good example, and the poor of the best attention and relief, that however sorry and ashamed for the necessity of the removal, she could not but in conscience feel that they were gone who deserved not to stay, and that Kellynch Hall had passed into better hands than its owners’. These convictions must unquestionably have their own pain, and severe was its kind; but they precluded that pain which Lady Russell would suffer in entering the house again, and returning through the well-known apartments.
她本可以就这个话题说更多。事实上，她对克罗夫特一家的评价很高，认为她的父亲在他的佃户中非常幸运，觉得教区无疑是一个好榜样，穷人得到了最好的关注和救济，无论多么遗憾和她为搬迁的必要性感到羞愧，但良心上却觉得，那些不该留下来的人已经走了，凯林奇庄园已经落入比其主人更好的人手中。毫无疑问，这些信念必定有其自身的痛苦，而且是严厉的。但他们排除了拉塞尔夫人再次进入这座房子并穿过著名的公寓返回时所遭受的痛苦。

In such moments Anne had no power of saying to herself, ‘These rooms ought to belong only to us. Oh, how fallen in their destination! How unworthily occupied! An ancient family to be so driven away! Strangers filling their place!’ No, except when she thought of her mother, and remembered where she had been used to sit and preside, she had no sigh of that description to heave.
在这种时刻，安妮无力对自己说：“这些房间应该只属于我们。”哦，他们多么迷失在目的地啊！多么不值得的占用啊！一个古老的家族就这样被赶走了！陌生人填补了他们的位置！”不，除了当她想起她的母亲，并想起她曾经坐在哪里主持会议时，她没有发出那种叹息。

Mrs Croft always met her with a kindness which gave her the pleasure of fancying herself a favourite, and on the present occasion, receiving her in that house, there was particular attention.
克罗夫特夫人总是以一种友善的态度迎接她，这让她很高兴自己是最喜欢的人，而这次，在那所房子里接待她，受到了特别的关注。

The sad accident at Lyme was soon the prevailing topic, and on comparing their latest accounts of the invalid, it appeared that each lady dated her intelligence from the same hour of yestermorn; that Captain Wentworth had been in Kellynch yesterday (the first time since the accident), had brought Anne the last note, which she had not been able to trace the exact steps of; had staid a few hours and then returned again to Lyme, and without any present intention of quitting it any more. He had enquired after her, she found, particularly; had expressed his hope of Miss Elliot’s not being the worse for her exertions, and had spoken of those exertions as great. This was handsome, and gave her more pleasure than almost anything else could have done.
莱姆的悲惨事故很快成为热门话题，通过比较他们对病人的最新描述，似乎每位女士都将她的智力日期定为昨天的同一时间；温特沃斯上尉昨天到了凯林奇（事故发生后第一次），给安妮带来了最后一张纸条，但她无法追踪到纸条的确切位置；停留了几个小时，然后再次返回莱姆，目前没有任何要离开的打算。她发现，他特别询问过她的情况；他表示希望埃利奥特小姐不要因为她的努力而变得更糟，并说这些努力是伟大的。这很漂亮，给她带来的快乐几乎是其他任何事情都无法比拟的。

As to the sad catastrophe itself, it could be canvassed only in one style by a couple of steady, sensible women, whose judgements had to work on ascertained events; and it was perfectly decided that it had been the consequence of much thoughtlessness and much imprudence; that its effects were most alarming, and that it was frightful to think, how long Miss Musgrove’s recovery might yet be doubtful, and how liable she would still remain to suffer from the concussion hereafter! The Admiral wound it up summarily by exclaiming—
至于这场悲惨的灾难本身，只能由几个稳重、明智的女性以一种方式进行探讨，她们的判断必须针对已确定的事件。事实证明，这是由于过于轻率和轻率而造成的。它的影响是最令人震惊的，而且一想到穆斯格罗夫小姐的康复还需要多长时间，以及她今后仍将继续遭受脑震荡，就令人感到可怕！海军上将以感叹的方​​式结束了这一切——

‘Ay, a very bad business indeed. A new sort of way this, for a young fellow to be making love, by breaking his mistress’s head, is not it, Miss Elliot? This is breaking a head and giving a plaster, truly!’
‘哎呀，这确实是一件非常糟糕的事情。这是一种新的方式，对于一个年轻人来说，通过打破情妇的头来做爱，不是吗，埃利奥特小姐？这确实是打破头打膏药！”

Admiral Croft’s manners were not quite of the tone to suit Lady Russell, but they delighted Anne. His goodness of heart and simplicity of character were irresistible.
克罗夫特上将的举止不太适合拉塞尔夫人，但安妮很高兴。他的善良和单纯的性格令人无法抗拒。

‘Now, this must be very bad for you,’ said he, suddenly rousing from a little reverie, ‘to be coming and finding us here. I had not recollected it before, I declare, but it must be very bad. But now, do not stand upon ceremony. Get up and go over all the rooms in the house if you like it.’
“现在，这对你来说一定很糟糕，”他突然从小小的沉思中醒来，“来到这里找到我们。我声明，我以前不记得它，但它一定非常糟糕。但现在，不要拘礼了。如果你喜欢的话，就站起来检查一下房子里的所有房间。”

‘Another time, Sir, I thank you, not now.’
“下次，先生，我谢谢你，但不是现在。”

‘Well, whenever it suits you. You can slip in from the shrubbery at any time; and there you will find we keep our umbrellas hanging up by that door. A good place is not it? But,’ (checking himself), ‘you will not think it a good place, for yours were always kept in the butler’s room. Ay, so it always is, I believe. One man’s ways may be as good as another’s, but we all like our own best. And so you must judge for yourself, whether it would be better for you to go about the house or not.’
‘好吧，只要你合适就可以。你可以随时从灌木丛中溜进去；在那里你会发现我们把雨伞挂在门边。一个好地方不是吗？但是，”（检查自己），“你不会认为这是一个好地方，因为你的东西总是放在管家的房间里。是的，我相信，情况总是如此。一个人的方式可能与另一个人的方式一样好，但我们都喜欢自己最好的方式。所以你必须自己判断，看看房子里是否对你更好。”

Anne, finding she might decline it, did so, very gratefully.
安妮发现自己可能会拒绝，于是非常感激地拒绝了。

‘We have made very few changes either,’ continued the Admiral, after thinking a moment. ‘Very few. We told you about the laundry-door, at Uppercross. That has been a very great improvement. The wonder was, how any family upon earth could bear with the inconvenience of its opening as it did, so long! You will tell Sir Walter what we have done, and that Mr Shepherd thinks it the greatest improvement the house ever had. Indeed, I must do ourselves the justice to say, that the few alterations we have made have been all very much for the better. My wife should have the credit of them, however. I have done very little besides sending away some of the large looking-glasses from my dressing-room, which was your father’s. A very good man, and very much the gentleman I am sure: but I should think, Miss Elliot,’ (looking with serious reflection), ‘I should think he must be rather a dressy man for his time of life. Such a number of looking-glasses! oh Lord! there was no getting away from one’s self. So I got Sophy to lend me a hand, and we soon shifted their quarters; and now I am quite snug, with my little shaving glass in one corner, and another great thing that I never go near.’
“我们也没有做出什么改变，”海军上将思考片刻后继续说道。 '很少。我们告诉过你关于厄普克罗斯洗衣房门的事。这是一个非常大的进步。令人惊奇的是，世界上有哪个家庭能够忍受它开业带来的不便，这么久！你会告诉沃尔特爵士我们做了什么，谢泼德先生认为这是这座房子有史以来最伟大的改进。事实上，我必须公正地说，我们所做的一些改变都变得更好了。不过，我的妻子应该得到他们的信任。除了从你父亲的更衣室里送走一些大镜子之外，我几乎没有做任何事。他是一个非常好的人，而且我确信他是一位非常绅士的人：但我应该认为，埃利奥特小姐，”（认真地思考），“我应该认为他在他的一生中一定是一个衣冠楚楚的人。这么多眼镜！我的天！人无法摆脱自我。于是我请苏菲帮忙，我们很快就搬了住处。现在我很舒服，我的小剃须镜放在一个角落里，还有另一件我从未靠近过的好东西。

Anne, amused in spite of herself, was rather distressed for an answer, and the Admiral, fearing he might not have been civil enough, took up the subject again, to say—
安妮不由得觉得好笑，但又为得到答案而感到相当苦恼，而海军上将担心他可能不够礼貌，又再次提起这个话题，说道——

‘The next time you write to your good father, Miss Elliot, pray give him my compliments and Mrs Croft’s, and say that we are settled here quite to our liking, and have no fault at all to find with the place. The breakfast-room chimney smokes a little, I grant you, but it is only when the wind is due north and blows hard, which may not happen three times a winter. And take it altogether, now that we have been into most of the houses hereabouts and can judge, there is not one that we like better than this. Pray say so, with my compliments. He will be glad to hear it.’
“下次你写信给你的好父亲埃利奥特小姐时，请转达我和克罗夫特夫人的致意，并说我们在这里定居得很合我们的喜好，而且对这个地方没有任何缺点。我同意你，早餐室的烟囱会冒一点烟，但只有当风向是正北且猛烈时，这种情况一个冬天可能不会发生三次。总而言之，既然我们已经参观了附近的大部分房屋并且可以判断，没有比这更让我们喜欢的了。请这么说，并表达我的赞美。他会很高兴听到的。

Lady Russell and Mrs Croft were very well pleased with each other: but the acquaintance which this visit began was fated not to proceed far at present; for when it was returned, the Crofts announced themselves to be going away for a few weeks, to visit their connexions in the north of the county, and probably might not be at home again before Lady Russell would be removing to Bath.
拉塞尔夫人和克罗夫特夫人彼此非常满意，但是这次访问开始的熟识注定不会进展太远。因为当它被归还时，克罗夫特夫妇宣布他们要离开几周，去拜访他们在县北部的亲戚，并且在拉塞尔夫人搬到巴斯之前可能不会再在家了。

So ended all danger to Anne of meeting Captain Wentworth at Kellynch Hall, or of seeing him in company with her friend. Everything was safe enough, and she smiled over the many anxious feelings she had wasted on the subject.
这样，安妮在凯林奇大厅见到温特沃斯上尉或看到他与她的朋友在一起的所有危险就结束了。一切都很安全，她对自己在这个问题上浪费的许多焦虑情绪微笑起来。

Chapter 14
第14章

Though Charles and Mary had remained at Lyme much longer after Mr and Mrs Musgrove’s going than Anne conceived they could have been at all wanted, they were yet the first of the family to be at home again; and as soon as possible after their return to Uppercross they drove over to the Lodge. They had left Louisa beginning to sit up; but her head, though clear, was exceedingly weak, and her nerves susceptible to the highest extreme of tenderness; and though she might be pronounced to be altogether doing very well, it was still impossible to say when she might be able to bear the removal home; and her father and mother, who must return in time to receive their younger children for the Christmas holidays, had hardly a hope of being allowed to bring her with them.
尽管穆斯格罗夫夫妇走后，查尔斯和玛丽在莱姆待的时间比安妮想象的要长得多，但他们仍然是家里第一个回到家的人；他们是第一个回到家的人。返回厄普克罗斯后，他们立即驱车前往旅馆。他们让路易莎开始坐起来。但她的头脑虽然清醒，却极其虚弱，她的神经很容易受到极度的温柔的影响。尽管可以说她一切都很好，但仍然无法确定她什么时候能够忍受搬回家的痛苦。她的父母必须及时回来接年幼的孩子过圣诞节，他们几乎没有希望被允许带她一起去。

They had been all in lodgings together. Mrs Musgrove had got Mrs Harville’s children away as much as she could, every possible supply from Uppercross had been furnished, to lighten the inconvenience to the Harvilles, while the Harvilles had been wanting them to come to dinner every day; and in short, it seemed to have been only a struggle on each side as to which should be most disinterested and hospitable.
他们一直一起住在宿舍里。默斯格罗夫夫人已经尽可能地把哈维尔夫人的孩子们带走了，厄普克罗斯的一切可能的供应都已经准备好了，以减轻哈维尔夫妇的不便，而哈维尔夫妇一直希望他们每天都来吃晚饭；但是，哈维尔夫妇却希望他们每天都来吃晚饭。简而言之，双方似乎只是在争论谁应该最无私、最热情好客。

Mary had had her evils; but upon the whole, as was evident by her staying so long, she had found more to enjoy than to suffer. Charles Hayter had been at Lyme oftener than suited her; and when they dined with the Harvilles there had been only a maid-servant to wait, and at first Mrs Harville had always given Mrs Musgrove precedence; but then, she had received so very handsome an apology from her on finding out whose daughter she was, and there had been so much going on every day, there had been so many walks between their lodgings and the Harvilles, and she had got books from the library, and changed them so often, that the balance had certainly been much in favour of Lyme. She had been taken to Charmouth too, and she had bathed, and she had gone to church, and there were a great many more people to look at in the church at Lyme than at Uppercross; and all this, joined to the sense of being so very useful, had made really an agreeable fortnight.
玛丽也有过她的罪恶；但总的来说，从她待了这么久就可以看出，她发现更多的是享受而不是受苦。查尔斯·海特去莱姆的次数比她适合的次数多了。当他们和哈维尔夫妇一起吃饭时，只有一个女仆在等待，一开始哈维尔夫人总是让默斯格罗夫夫人优先。但后来，当她知道她是谁的女儿时，她收到了非常漂亮的道歉，每天都有很多事情发生，在他们的住所和哈维尔之间有很多散步，她还得到了书从图书馆借来的，而且经常更换它们，所以天平肯定对莱姆有利。她也被带到了查茅斯，洗了澡，去了教堂，莱姆教堂里可看的人比厄珀克罗斯多得多。所有这一切，再加上自己非常有用的感觉，让我度过了非常愉快的两周。

Anne enquired after Captain Benwick, Mary’s face was clouded directly. Charles laughed.
安妮询问本威克船长的情况，玛丽的脸色直接阴沉下来。查尔斯笑了。

‘Oh! Captain Benwick is very well, I believe, but he is a very odd young man. I do not know what he would be at. We asked him to come home with us for a day or two: Charles undertook to give him some shooting, and he seemed quite delighted, and, for my part, I thought it was all settled; when behold! on Tuesday night, he made a very awkward sort of excuse; ‘he never shot’ and he had ‘been quite misunderstood,’ and he had promised this and he had promised that, and the end of it was, I found, that he did not mean to come. I suppose he was afraid of finding it dull; but upon my word I should have thought we were lively enough at the Cottage for such a heart-broken man as Captain Benwick.’
'哦！我相信本威克船长身体很好，但他是一个非常奇怪的年轻人。我不知道他会做什么。我们邀请他和我们一起回家一两天：查尔斯答应给他一些射击，他看起来很高兴，而就我而言，我认为一切都解决了；但是，我认为一切都已经解决了。当看哪！周二晚上，他找了一个非常尴尬的借口； “他从来没有开枪”，他“被误解了”，他答应了这个，他答应了那个，我发现，结果是他无意来。我想他是害怕觉得这很乏味。但据我所知，我本以为我们小屋里对于像本威克船长这样伤心欲绝的人来说已经足够热闹了。

Charles laughed again and said, ‘Now Mary, you know very well how it really was. It was all your doing,’ (turning to Anne.) ‘He fancied that if he went with us, he should find you close by: he fancied everybody to be living in Uppercross; and when he discovered that Lady Russell lived three miles off, his heart failed him, and he had not courage to come. That is the fact, upon my honour, Mary knows it is.’
查尔斯又笑了，说道：“现在玛丽，你很清楚事情到底是怎样的。”这都是你干的，”（转向安妮。）“他以为如果他和我们一起去，他应该会在附近找到你：他以为每个人都住在厄普克罗斯；当他发现拉塞尔夫人住在三英里之外时，他的心彻底崩溃了，他没有勇气来。事实就是这样，以我的名誉担保，玛丽知道是这样的。”

But Mary did not give into it very graciously, whether from not considering Captain Benwick entitled by birth and situation to be in love with an Elliot, or from not wanting to believe Anne a greater attraction to Uppercross than herself, must be left to be guessed. Anne’s good-will, however, was not to be lessened by what she heard. She boldly acknowledged herself flattered, and continued her enquiries.
但玛丽并没有很客气地屈服，无论是因为不认为本威克船长在出生和处境上有资格爱上艾略特，还是因为不想相信安妮对厄普克罗斯的吸引力比她自己更大，必须留待猜测。然而，安妮的善意并没有因为她所听到的而减弱。她大胆地承认自己受宠若惊，并继续询问。

‘Oh! he talks of you,’ cried Charles, ‘in such terms—‘ Mary interrupted him. ‘I declare, Charles, I never heard him mention Anne twice all the time I was there. I declare, Anne, he never talks of you at all.’
'哦！ “他谈论你，”查尔斯喊道，“用这样的话——”玛丽打断了他。 “我声明，查尔斯，我在那儿的所有时间里从未听他提到过安妮两次。我敢说，安妮，他从来没有谈起过你。

‘No,’ admitted Charles, ‘I do not know that he ever does, in a general way; but however, it is a very clear thing that he admires you exceedingly. His head is full of some books that he is reading upon your recommendation, and he wants to talk to you about them; he has found out something or other in one of them which he thinks—oh! I cannot pretend to remember it, but it was something very fine—I overheard him telling Henrietta all about it; and then ‘Miss Elliot’ was spoken of in the highest terms! Now Mary, I declare it was so, I heard it myself, and you were in the other room. ‘Elegance, sweetness, beauty.’ Oh! there was no end of Miss Elliot’s charms.’
“不，”查尔斯承认，“一般来说，我不知道他曾经这样做过；但是，很明显，他非常钦佩你。他的脑子里装满了你推荐的一些书，他想和你谈谈这些书；他在其中一本书中发现了一些东西，他认为——哦！我无法假装记得这件事，但那是一件非常好的事情——我无意中听到他告诉亨丽埃塔这一切；然后“埃利奥特小姐”就被用了最高级的词来谈论！玛丽，我声明是这样的，我亲耳听到的，而你在另一个房间里。 “优雅、甜美、美丽。”哦！艾略特小姐的魅力无穷无尽。

‘And I am sure,’ cried Mary, warmly, ‘it was a very little to his credit, if he did. Miss Harville only died last June. Such a heart is very little worth having; is it, Lady Russell? I am sure you will agree with me.’
“我确信，”玛丽热情地喊道，“如果他这么做了，那对他来说也没什么好处。”哈维尔小姐去年六月才去世。这样的心是不值得拥有的；是吗，拉塞尔夫人？我相信你会同意我的观点。

‘I must see Captain Benwick before I decide,’ said Lady Russell, smiling.
“我必须先见见本威克船长，然后再做决定。”拉塞尔夫人微笑着说道。

‘And that you are very likely to do very soon, I can tell you, ma’am,’ said Charles. ‘Though he had not nerves for coming away with us, and setting off again afterwards to pay a formal visit here, he will make his way over to Kellynch one day by himself, you may depend on it. I told him the distance and the road, and I told him of the church’s being so very well worth seeing; for as he has a taste for those sort of things, I thought that would be a good excuse, and he listened with all his understanding and soul; and I am sure from his manner that you will have him calling here soon. So, I give you notice, Lady Russell.’
“我可以告诉你，女士，你很可能很快就会这么做，”查尔斯说。 “虽然他没有勇气和我们一起离开，然后又出发去这里进行正式访问，但总有一天他会独自前往凯林奇，你可以放心。我告诉他距离和路，还告诉他教堂非常值得一看。因为他对这类事情很感兴趣，我认为这是一个很好的借口，他全心全意地听着。从他的态度来看，我确信他很快就会打电话过来。所以，我通知你，拉塞尔夫人。”

‘Any acquaintance of Anne’s will always be welcome to me,’ was Lady Russell’s kind answer.
“我永远欢迎安妮的任何熟人，”拉塞尔夫人亲切地回答道。

‘Oh! as to being Anne’s acquaintance,’ said Mary, ‘I think he is rather my acquaintance, for I have been seeing him every day this last fortnight.’
'哦！至于安妮的熟人，”玛丽说，“我认为他更像是我的熟人，因为过去两周我每天都见到他。

‘Well, as your joint acquaintance, then, I shall be very happy to see Captain Benwick.’
“那么，作为你们共同的熟人，我会很高兴见到本威克船长。”

‘You will not find anything very agreeable in him, I assure you, ma’am. He is one of the dullest young men that ever lived. He has walked with me, sometimes, from one end of the sands to the other, without saying a word. He is not at all a well-bred young man. I am sure you will not like him.’
“我向你保证，女士，你不会发现他有任何令人愉快的地方。他是有史以来最迟钝的年轻人之一。有时，他会陪我从沙滩的一端走到另一端，一言不发。他根本不是一个有教养的年轻人。我确信你不会喜欢他。

‘There we differ, Mary,’ said Anne. ‘I think Lady Russell would like him. I think she would be so much pleased with his mind, that she would very soon see no deficiency in his manner.’
“我们的意见不同，玛丽，”安妮说。 “我想拉塞尔夫人会喜欢他。我想她会对他的思想非常满意，很快她就会发现他的举止没有任何缺陷。

‘So do I, Anne,’ said Charles. ‘I am sure Lady Russell would like him. He is just Lady Russell’s sort. Give him a book, and he will read all day long.’
“我也是，安妮，”查尔斯说。 “我确信拉塞尔夫人会喜欢他。他就是拉塞尔夫人那样的人。给他一本书，他就会读一整天。”

‘Yes, that he will!’ exclaimed Mary, tauntingly. ‘He will sit poring over his book, and not know when a person speaks to him, or when one drop’s one’s scissors, or anything that happens. Do you think Lady Russell would like that?’
“是的，他会的！”玛丽嘲讽地喊道。 “他会坐下来仔细阅读他的书，却不知道什么时候有人对他说话，什么时候剪刀掉下来，或者发生任何事情。你认为拉塞尔夫人会喜欢这样吗？

Lady Russell could not help laughing. ‘Upon my word,’ said she, ‘I should not have supposed that my opinion of any one could have admitted of such difference of conjecture, steady and matter of fact as I may call myself. I have really a curiosity to see the person who can give occasion to such directly opposite notions. I wish he may be induced to call here. And when he does, Mary, you may depend upon hearing my opinion; but I am determined not to judge him beforehand.’
拉塞尔夫人忍不住笑了起来。 “据我所知，”她说，“我不应该认为我对任何人的看法会承认这种猜想的差异，我可以称自己为稳定的事实。我真的很想看看有谁能够提出如此截然相反的观念。我希望他能被引诱到这里来。当他这样做时，玛丽，你可以听听我的意见。但我决定不事先评判他。

‘You will not like him, I will answer for it.’
“你不会喜欢他，我会为此负责。”

Lady Russell began talking of something else. Mary spoke with animation of their meeting with, or rather missing, Mr Elliot so extraordinarily.
拉塞尔夫人开始谈论别的事情。玛丽兴高采烈地讲述了他们与埃利奥特先生的会面，或者更确切地说是想念埃利奥特先生的非凡经历。

‘He is a man,’ said Lady Russell, ‘whom I have no wish to see. His declining to be on cordial terms with the head of his family, has left a very strong impression in his disfavour with me.’
“他是一个男人，”拉塞尔夫人说，“我不想见到他。他拒绝与一家之主保持友好关系，这给我留下了非常强烈的印象，他对我不感兴趣。

This decision checked Mary’s eagerness, and stopped her short in the midst of the Elliot countenance.
这个决定抑制了玛丽的急切情绪，让她在埃利奥特的表情中停了下来。

With regard to Captain Wentworth, though Anne hazarded no enquiries, there was voluntary communication sufficient. His spirits had been greatly recovering lately as might be expected. As Louisa improved, he had improved, and he was now quite a different creature from what he had been the first week. He had not seen Louisa; and was so extremely fearful of any ill consequence to her from an interview, that he did not press for it at all; and, on the contrary, seemed to have a plan of going away for a week or ten days, till her head was stronger. He had talked of going down to Plymouth for a week, and wanted to persuade Captain Benwick to go with him; but, as Charles maintained to the last, Captain Benwick seemed much more disposed to ride over to Kellynch.
至于温特沃斯上尉，尽管安妮不敢询问，但自愿的沟通就足够了。果然，最近他的精神已经恢复了不少。随着路易莎的进步，他也进步了，现在的他与第一周时的样子截然不同。他没有见过路易莎；他没有见过路易莎。他非常担心采访会给她带来任何不良后果，所以他根本没有催促她。相反，她似乎计划离开一周或十天，直到她的头脑变得更坚强。他曾谈到要去普利茅斯一周，并想说服本威克船长和他一起去。但是，正如查尔斯直到最后坚持的那样，本威克上尉似乎更愿意骑马前往凯林奇。

There can be no doubt that Lady Russell and Anne were both occasionally thinking of Captain Benwick, from this time. Lady Russell could not hear the door-bell without feeling that it might be his herald; nor could Anne return from any stroll of solitary indulgence in her father’s grounds, or any visit of charity in the village, without wondering whether she might see him or hear of him. Captain Benwick came not, however. He was either less disposed for it than Charles had imagined, or he was too shy; and after giving him a week’s indulgence, Lady Russell determined him to be unworthy of the interest which he had been beginning to excite.
毫无疑问，从这个时候起，拉塞尔夫人和安妮都偶尔会想起本威克船长。拉塞尔夫人一听到门铃，就感觉这可能是他的传令官。安妮每次在她父亲的庄园里独自漫步，或在村里参加慈善活动后，回来时都会想知道是否会见到他或听到他的消息。然而，本威克船长没有来。他要么不如查尔斯想象的那么愿意，要么他太害羞了。放纵了他一周后，拉塞尔夫人认定他不值得他开始引起的兴趣。

The Musgroves came back to receive their happy boys and girls from school, bringing with them Mrs Harville’s little children, to improve the noise of Uppercross, and lessen that of Lyme. Henrietta remained with Louisa; but all the rest of the family were again in their usual quarters.
穆斯格罗夫一家回来迎接他们放学的快乐的男孩和女孩，还带着哈维尔夫人的小孩，以改善阿珀克罗斯的噪音，并减少莱姆的噪音。亨利埃塔留在了路易莎身边。但家里的其他人又回到了原来的住处。

Lady Russell and Anne paid their compliments to them once, when Anne could not but feel that Uppercross was already quite alive again. Though neither Henrietta, nor Louisa, nor Charles Hayter, nor Captain Wentworth were there, the room presented as strong a contrast as could be wished to the last state she had seen it in.
拉塞尔夫人和安妮曾经向他们致意过一次，当时安妮不禁感到厄普克罗斯已经又活过来了。虽然亨利埃塔、路易莎、查尔斯·海特和温特沃斯上尉都不在，但这个房间与她最后看到的情况形成了强烈的对比。

Immediately surrounding Mrs Musgrove were the little Harvilles, whom she was sedulously guarding from the tyranny of the two children from the Cottage, expressly arrived to amuse them. On one side was a table occupied by some chattering girls, cutting up silk and gold paper; and on the other were tressels and trays, bending under the weight of brawn and cold pies, where riotous boys were holding high revel; the whole completed by a roaring Christmas fire, which seemed determined to be heard, in spite of all the noise of the others. Charles and Mary also came in, of course, during their visit, and Mr Musgrove made a point of paying his respects to Lady Russell, and sat down close to her for ten minutes, talking with a very raised voice, but from the clamour of the children on his knees, generally in vain. It was a fine family-piece.
紧接着默斯格罗夫夫人周围的是小哈维尔一家，她正在孜孜不倦地保护他们免受小屋里两个孩子的暴虐，他们特意来逗乐他们。一侧有一张桌子，几个女孩正在叽叽喳喳地剪丝绸和金纸。另一边是托盘和托盘，在肌肉和冷馅饼的重压下弯曲，放荡的男孩们在那里举行狂欢。整个过程由熊熊燃烧的圣诞火完成，尽管其他人都吵闹，但它似乎决心要被听到。当然，在他们来访期间，查尔斯和玛丽也进来了，穆斯格罗夫先生特意向拉塞尔夫人表示敬意，并在她旁边坐了十分钟，说话的声音很高，但来自喧闹的声音。孩子们跪下，一般都是徒劳。这是一件精美的家庭作品。

Anne, judging from her own temperament, would have deemed such a domestic hurricane a bad restorative of the nerves, which Louisa’s illness must have so greatly shaken. But Mrs Musgrove, who got Anne near her on purpose to thank her most cordially, again and again, for all her attentions to them, concluded a short recapitulation of what she had suffered herself by observing, with a happy glance round the room, that after all she had gone through, nothing was so likely to do her good as a little quiet cheerfulness at home.
安妮从她自己的脾气来看，会认为这样的家庭飓风对神经的恢复很不利，而路易莎的病肯定极大地动摇了她的神经。但是默斯格罗夫夫人故意让安妮靠近她，一次又一次地最诚挚地感谢她对他们的所有关注，最后她愉快地环视了整个房间，观察到她所遭受的痛苦，在她经历了这一切之后，没有什么比在家中保持一点安静的快乐更能对她有好处了。

Louisa was now recovering apace. Her mother could even think of her being able to join their party at home, before her brothers and sisters went to school again. The Harvilles had promised to come with her and stay at Uppercross, whenever she returned. Captain Wentworth was gone, for the present, to see his brother in Shropshire.
路易莎现在正在迅速康复。她的母亲甚至可以想到，在她的兄弟姐妹再次上学之前，她可以在家参加他们的聚会。哈维尔一家答应她什么时候回来，就会和她一起住在厄普克罗斯。温特沃斯上尉暂时去什罗普郡看望他的兄弟。

‘I hope I shall remember, in future,’ said Lady Russell, as soon as they were reseated in the carriage, ‘not to call at Uppercross in the Christmas holidays.’
“我希望我以后能记住，”他们一坐上马车，拉塞尔夫人就说道，“圣诞节假期不要去厄珀克罗斯。”

Everybody has their taste in noises as well as in other matters; and sounds are quite innoxious, or most distressing, by their sort rather than their quantity. When Lady Russell not long afterwards, was entering Bath on a wet afternoon, and driving through the long course of streets from the Old Bridge to Camden Place, amidst the dash of other carriages, the heavy rumble of carts and drays, the bawling of newspapermen, muffin-men and milkmen, and the ceaseless clink of pattens, she made no complaint. No, these were noises which belonged to the winter pleasures; her spirits rose under their influence; and like Mrs Musgrove, she was feeling, though not saying, that after being long in the country, nothing could be so good for her as a little quiet cheerfulness.
每个人对噪音和其他事物都有自己的品味。声音是无害的，或者说是最令人痛苦的，是因为声音的种类而不是数量。不久之后，拉塞尔夫人在一个潮湿的下午进入巴斯，开车穿过从老桥到卡姆登广场的长长的街道，周围是其他马车的冲撞声、手推车和马车的隆隆声、报纸记者的喧闹声。 、松饼工和送奶工，以及帕丁顿蛋糕不断发出的叮当声，她没有抱怨。不，这些声音属于冬天的欢乐；在他们的影响下，她的精神振奋起来。和莫斯格罗夫夫人一样，她虽然没有明说，但也感觉到，在乡下待了很长时间之后，没有什么比一点安静的快乐对她更好的了。

Anne did not share these feelings. She persisted in a very determined, though very silent disinclination for Bath; caught the first dim view of the extensive buildings, smoking in rain, without any wish of seeing them better; felt their progress through the streets to be, however disagreeable, yet too rapid; for who would be glad to see her when she arrived? And looked back, with fond regret, to the bustles of Uppercross and the seclusion of Kellynch.
安妮却不这么认为。她固执地对巴斯表现出一种非常坚决的、虽然默默无闻的厌恶。第一次看到那些在雨中冒着烟的大建筑的朦胧景象，却没有想看得更清楚的愿望。感觉他们在街上的行进速度无论多么令人不快，但还是太快了。因为当她到达时谁会高兴见到她呢？带着深深的遗憾，我回望了厄珀克罗斯的喧嚣和凯林奇的僻静。

Elizabeth’s last letter had communicated a piece of news of some interest. Mr Elliot was in Bath. He had called in Camden Place; had called a second time, a third; had been pointedly attentive. If Elizabeth and her father did not deceive themselves, had been taking much pains to seek the acquaintance, and proclaim the value of the connection, as he had formerly taken pains to shew neglect. This was very wonderful if it were true; and Lady Russell was in a state of very agreeable curiosity and perplexity about Mr Elliot, already recanting the sentiment she had so lately expressed to Mary, of his being ‘a man whom she had no wish to see.’ She had a great wish to see him. If he really sought to reconcile himself like a dutiful branch, he must be forgiven for having dismembered himself from the paternal tree.
伊丽莎白的最后一封信传达了一条有趣的消息。艾略特先生在巴斯。他到过卡姆登广场；已经打了第二次、第三次；一直非常细心。如果伊丽莎白和她的父亲没有欺骗自己的话，他们一直在煞费苦心地寻找熟人，并宣扬这种联系的价值，就像他以前煞费苦心地表现出忽视一样。如果这是真的，那真是太好了。拉塞尔夫人对埃利奥特先生感到非常愉快的好奇和困惑，她已经放弃了她最近向玛丽表达的观点，即他是“一个她不想见到的男人”。看见他。如果他真的像一根孝顺的树枝一样寻求与自己和解，那么他从父系树上肢解自己的行为就必须得到原谅。

Anne was not animated to an equal pitch by the circumstance, but she felt that she would rather see Mr Elliot again than not, which was more than she could say for many other persons in Bath.
安妮对这种情况并没有同样的兴奋，但她觉得她宁愿再次见到埃利奥特先生，也不愿再见到埃利奥特先生，这比她对巴斯的许多其他人说的要多。

She was put down in Camden Place; and Lady Russell then drove to her own lodgings, in Rivers Street.
她被安葬在卡姆登广场。拉塞尔夫人随后开车前往她自己位于里弗斯街的住所。

Chapter 15
第15章

Sir Walter had taken a very good house in Camden Place, a lofty dignified situation, such as becomes a man of consequence; and both he and Elizabeth were settled there, much to their satisfaction.
沃尔特爵士在卡姆登广场买了一栋非常好的房子，一种崇高而庄严的地位，就像成为一个有影响力的人一样。他和伊丽莎白都在那里安顿下来，这让他们很满意。

Anne entered it with a sinking heart, anticipating an imprisonment of many months, and anxiously saying to herself, ‘Oh! when shall I leave you again?’ A degree of unexpected cordiality, however, in the welcome she received, did her good. Her father and sister were glad to see her, for the sake of shewing her the house and furniture, and met her with kindness. Her making a fourth, when they sat down to dinner, was noticed as an advantage.
安妮怀着沉沉的心情走进了监狱，她预计将被监禁数月，她焦急地对自己说：“哦！ “我什么时候才能再次离开你？”然而，在她受到的欢迎中，出人意料的热情对她有好处。她的父亲和姐姐很高兴见到她，带她参观了房子和家具，并亲切地接待了她。当他们坐下来吃晚饭时，她获得了第四名，这被认为是一种优势。

Mrs Clay was very pleasant, and very smiling, but her courtesies and smiles were more a matter of course. Anne had always felt that she would pretend what was proper on her arrival, but the complaisance of the others was unlooked for. They were evidently in excellent spirits, and she was soon to listen to the causes. They had no inclination to listen to her. After laying out for some compliments of being deeply regretted in their old neighbourhood, which Anne could not pay, they had only a few faint enquiries to make, before the talk must be all their own. Uppercross excited no interest, Kellynch very little: it was all Bath.
克莱夫人非常令人愉快，而且非常微笑，但她的礼貌和微笑更理所当然。安妮一直觉得自己一到就会假装得体，但其他人却出乎意料地表现得顺从。他们显然精神很好，她很快就听到了原因。他们没有兴趣听她说话。在对安妮无法支付的旧邻居表示深深遗憾的一些赞美之后，他们只需要进行一些模糊的询问，然后就可以完全由他们自己进行谈话了。厄普克罗斯没有兴趣，凯林奇也没什么兴趣：全是巴斯。

They had the pleasure of assuring her that Bath more than answered their expectations in every respect. Their house was undoubtedly the best in Camden Place; their drawing-rooms had many decided advantages over all the others which they had either seen or heard of, and the superiority was not less in the style of the fitting-up, or the taste of the furniture. Their acquaintance was exceedingly sought after. Everybody was wanting to visit them. They had drawn back from many introductions, and still were perpetually having cards left by people of whom they knew nothing.
他们很高兴向她保证巴斯在各个方面都超出了他们的期望。他们的房子无疑是卡姆登广场最好的。他们的客厅比他们见过或听说过的所有其他客厅有许多明显的优势，而且这种优势不亚于装修风格或家具的品味。他们的相识受到了极大的追捧。每个人都想拜访他们。他们已经从多次介绍中退缩了，而且仍然永远保留着他们一无所知的人留下的卡片。

Here were funds of enjoyment. Could Anne wonder that her father and sister were happy? She might not wonder, but she must sigh that her father should feel no degradation in his change, should see nothing to regret in the duties and dignity of the resident landholder, should find so much to be vain of in the littlenesses of a town; and she must sigh, and smile, and wonder too, as Elizabeth threw open the folding-doors and walked with exultation from one drawing-room to the other, boasting of their space; at the possibility of that woman, who had been mistress of Kellynch Hall, finding extent to be proud of between two walls, perhaps thirty feet asunder.
这里有享受的资金。安妮会想知道她的父亲和妹妹很高兴吗？她可能不会感到奇怪，但她必须感叹，她的父亲不应该因为自己的改变而感到屈辱，不应该在当地土地所有者的责任和尊严中看到任何遗憾，应该在一个小镇的小事中发现这么多值得虚荣的东西；当伊丽莎白打开折叠门，兴高采烈地从一间客厅走到另一间客厅，夸耀自己的空间时，她一定会叹息、微笑，同时也感到惊奇。那个女人，曾是凯林奇庄园的女主人，有可能在两堵墙之间找到值得骄傲的空间，大约相距三十英尺。

But this was not all which they had to make them happy. They had Mr Elliot too. Anne had a great deal to hear of Mr Elliot. He was not only pardoned, they were delighted with him. He had been in Bath about a fortnight; (he had passed through Bath in November, in his way to London, when the intelligence of Sir Walter’s being settled there had of course reached him, though only twenty-four hours in the place, but he had not been able to avail himself of it;) but he had now been a fortnight in Bath, and his first object on arriving, had been to leave his card in Camden Place, following it up by such assiduous endeavours to meet, and when they did meet, by such great openness of conduct, such readiness to apologize for the past, such solicitude to be received as a relation again, that their former good understanding was completely re-established.
但这还不是让他们高兴的全部。他们也有埃利奥特先生。安妮听到了很多关于埃利奥特先生的事。他不仅被赦免了，而且他们还对他感到高兴。他在巴斯已经呆了大约两周了。 （十一月，他在去伦敦的路上途经巴斯，当时他当然知道了沃尔特爵士定居在那里的消息，尽管他只在当地呆了二十四小时，但他并没有能够利用这一消息。但他现在已经在巴斯呆了两周了，到达后他的第一个目标就是把他的名片留在卡姆登广场，然后通过如此刻苦的努力去见面，当他们真正见面时，以如此大的开放态度行为，如此愿意为过去道歉，如此关心再次被视为关系，以至于他们以前的良好理解完全重新建立起来。

They had not a fault to find in him. He had explained away all the appearance of neglect on his own side. It had originated in misapprehension entirely. He had never had an idea of throwing himself off; he had feared that he was thrown off, but knew not why, and delicacy had kept him silent. Upon the hint of having spoken disrespectfully or carelessly of the family and the family honours, he was quite indignant. He, who had ever boasted of being an Elliot, and whose feelings, as to connection, were only too strict to suit the unfeudal tone of the present day. He was astonished, indeed, but his character and general conduct must refute it. He could refer Sir Walter to all who knew him; and certainly, the pains he had been taking on this, the first opportunity of reconciliation, to be restored to the footing of a relation and heir-presumptive, was a strong proof of his opinions on the subject.
他们在他身上找不到任何毛病。他已经为自己方面所有的疏忽行为做出了解释。它完全源于误解。他从来没有想过要跳下去。他担心自己会被抛弃，但不知道为什么，但谨慎让他保持沉默。当他听到有人对家族和家族荣誉做出不敬或粗心的言论时，他感到非常愤怒。他曾经吹嘘自己是艾略特，而且他对联系的感情过于严格，不适合当今非封建的基调。他确实感到惊讶，但他的性格和一般行为必须驳斥这一点。他可以将沃尔特爵士介绍给所有认识他的人。当然，他为此付出的努力，第一次和解的机会，恢复亲属和继承人推定地位的机会，有力地证明了他对这个问题的看法。

The circumstances of his marriage, too, were found to admit of much extenuation. This was an article not to be entered on by himself; but a very intimate friend of his, a Colonel Wallis, a highly respectable man, perfectly the gentleman, (and not an ill-looking man, Sir Walter added), who was living in very good style in Marlborough Buildings, and had, at his own particular request, been admitted to their acquaintance through Mr Elliot, had mentioned one or two things relative to the marriage, which made a material difference in the discredit of it.
人们发现他的婚姻状况也有很大的情有可原。这是一篇不适合他自己写的文章；但是他的一个非常亲密的朋友，沃利斯上校，一个非常受人尊敬的人，完美的绅士，（沃尔特爵士补充说，不是一个难看的人），他住在马尔伯勒大厦里，风格非常好，并且有，他自己的特殊要求是通过埃利奥特先生向他们所认识的，他提到了一两件与婚姻有关的事情，这对婚姻的声誉产生了重大影响。

Colonel Wallis had known Mr Elliot long, had been well acquainted also with his wife, had perfectly understood the whole story. She was certainly not a woman of family, but well educated, accomplished, rich, and excessively in love with his friend. There had been the charm. She had sought him. Without that attraction, not all her money would have tempted Elliot, and Sir Walter was, moreover, assured of her having been a very fine woman. Here was a great deal to soften the business. A very fine woman with a large fortune, in love with him! Sir Walter seemed to admit it as complete apology; and though Elizabeth could not see the circumstance in quite so favourable a light, she allowed it be a great extenuation.
沃利斯上校很早就认识埃利奥特先生，也很熟悉他的妻子，完全了解整个故事。她当然不是一个有家庭的女人，但受过良好的教育，有成就，富有，而且非常爱他的朋友。这就是魅力所在。她来找过他。如果没有这种吸引力，她所有的钱都不会吸引埃利奥特，而且沃尔特爵士确信她是一个非常优秀的女人。这是一个很大的软化业务的交易。一个非常优秀的女人，拥有大量的财产，爱上了他！沃尔特爵士似乎承认这是彻底的道歉。虽然伊丽莎白不能以如此有利的眼光看待这种情况，但她认为这是一个很大的情有可原。

Mr Elliot had called repeatedly, had dined with them once, evidently delighted by the distinction of being asked, for they gave no dinners in general; delighted, in short, by every proof of cousinly notice, and placing his whole happiness in being on intimate terms in Camden Place.
埃利奥特先生多次打电话来，和他们一起吃过一次饭，显然很高兴被邀请，因为他们一般不举办晚宴。简而言之，他对每一个表弟的注意感到高兴，并把他的全部幸福寄托在卡姆登广场的亲密关系上。

Anne listened, but without quite understanding it. Allowances, large allowances, she knew, must be made for the ideas of those who spoke. She heard it all under embellishment. All that sounded extravagant or irrational in the progress of the reconciliation might have no origin but in the language of the relators. Still, however, she had the sensation of there being something more than immediately appeared, in Mr Elliot’s wishing, after an interval of so many years, to be well received by them. In a worldly view, he had nothing to gain by being on terms with Sir Walter; nothing to risk by a state of variance. In all probability he was already the richer of the two, and the Kellynch estate would as surely be his hereafter as the title. A sensible man, and he had looked like a very sensible man, why should it be an object to him? She could only offer one solution; it was, perhaps, for Elizabeth’s sake. There might really have been a liking formerly, though convenience and accident had drawn him a different way; and now that he could afford to please himself, he might mean to pay his addresses to her. Elizabeth was certainly very handsome, with well-bred, elegant manners, and her character might never have been penetrated by Mr Elliot, knowing her but in public, and when very young himself. How her temper and understanding might bear the investigation of his present keener time of life was another concern and rather a fearful one. Most earnestly did she wish that he might not be too nice, or too observant if Elizabeth were his object; and that Elizabeth was disposed to believe herself so, and that her friend Mrs Clay was encouraging the idea, seemed apparent by a glance or two between them, while Mr Elliot’s frequent visits were talked of.
安妮听了，但不太明白。她知道，必须充分考虑发言者的想法。她听到的都是经过修饰的。在和解过程中，所有听起来夸张或不合理的事情可能都没有根源，只是在相关者的语言中。然而，她仍然有一种感觉，埃利奥特先生时隔多年之后，仍然希望受到他们的热烈欢迎，这比立即出现的还要多。从世俗的角度来看，他与沃尔特爵士和好并没有什么好处。状态变化不会带来任何风险。很可能他已经是两人中更富有的一个了，凯林奇庄园将像头衔一样肯定是他的来世。一个明智的人，而且他看上去也是一个非常明智的人，为什么要成为他的对象呢？她只能提供一种解决办法：也许是为了伊丽莎白的缘故。以前可能确实有过喜欢，尽管方便和偶然使他产生了不同的兴趣；现在他可以取悦自己了，他可能打算向她支付他的地址。伊丽莎白确实非常英俊，有教养，举止优雅，艾略特先生可能永远无法理解她的性格，因为艾略特先生只是在公共场合认识她，而且他自己还很年轻。她的脾气和理解力如何承受他目前生活中最活跃的时期的调查是另一个问题，而且是一个令人恐惧的问题。她最真诚地希望，如果伊丽莎白是他的对象的话，他不要太友善，也不要太挑剔。伊丽莎白倾向于相信自己是这样的，而她的朋友克莱夫人也在鼓励这个想法，当他们谈论艾略特先生的频繁来访时，他们之间的一两眼就显而易见了。

Anne mentioned the glimpses she had had of him at Lyme, but without being much attended to. ‘Oh! yes, perhaps, it had been Mr Elliot. They did not know. It might be him, perhaps.’ They could not listen to her description of him. They were describing him themselves; Sir Walter especially. He did justice to his very gentlemanlike appearance, his air of elegance and fashion, his good shaped face, his sensible eye; but, at the same time, ‘must lament his being very much under-hung, a defect which time seemed to have increased; nor could he pretend to say that ten years had not altered almost every feature for the worse. Mr Elliot appeared to think that he (Sir Walter) was looking exactly as he had done when they last parted;’ but Sir Walter had ‘not been able to return the compliment entirely, which had embarrassed him. He did not mean to complain, however. Mr Elliot was better to look at than most men, and he had no objection to being seen with him anywhere.’
安妮提到她在莱姆见过他，但没有受到太多关注。 '哦！是的，也许是埃利奥特先生。他们并不知道。也许就是他。”他们无法听她对他的描述。他们正在描述他自己；尤其是沃尔特爵士。他非常绅士的外表，优雅时尚的气质，姣好的面容，敏锐的目光；但与此同时，“必须为自己的不足而感到遗憾，随着时间的推移，这种缺陷似乎越来越严重”；他也不能假装说十年来几乎所有的特征都没有变得更糟。埃利奥特先生似乎认为他（沃尔特爵士）看起来和他们上次分手时一模一样；但沃尔特爵士“无法完全回应这一赞美，这让他感到尴尬”。不过，他并没有抱怨的意思。艾略特先生比大多数男人都好看，而且他不反对别人看到他和他在一起。

Mr Elliot, and his friends in Marlborough Buildings, were talked of the whole evening. ‘Colonel Wallis had been so impatient to be introduced to them! and Mr Elliot so anxious that he should!’ and there was a Mrs Wallis, at present known only to them by description, as she was in daily expectation of her confinement; but Mr Elliot spoke of her as ‘a most charming woman, quite worthy of being known in Camden Place,’ and as soon as she recovered they were to be acquainted. Sir Walter thought much of Mrs Wallis; she was said to be an excessively pretty woman, beautiful. ‘He longed to see her. He hoped she might make some amends for the many very plain faces he was continually passing in the streets. The worst of Bath was the number of its plain women. He did not mean to say that there were no pretty women, but the number of the plain was out of all proportion. He had frequently observed, as he walked, that one handsome face would be followed by thirty, or five-and-thirty frights; and once, as he had stood in a shop on Bond Street, he had counted eighty-seven women go by, one after another, without there being a tolerable face among them. It had been a frosty morning, to be sure, a sharp frost, which hardly one woman in a thousand could stand the test of. But still, there certainly were a dreadful multitude of ugly women in Bath; and as for the men! they were infinitely worse. Such scarecrows as the streets were full of! It was evident how little the women were used to the sight of anything tolerable, by the effect which a man of decent appearance produced. He had never walked anywhere arm-in-arm with Colonel Wallis (who was a fine military figure, though sandy-haired) without observing that every woman’s eye was upon him; every woman’s eye was sure to be upon Colonel Wallis.’ Modest Sir Walter! He was not allowed to escape, however. His daughter and Mrs Clay united in hinting that Colonel Wallis’s companion might have as good a figure as Colonel Wallis, and certainly was not sandy-haired.
艾略特先生和他在马尔堡大厦的朋友们整个晚上都在谈论此事。 “沃利斯上校非常不耐烦地想被介绍给他们！埃利奥特先生非常渴望他能这么做！但埃利奥特先生说她是“一位最迷人的女人，在卡姆登广场值得被人认识”，一旦她康复，他们就会认识。沃尔特爵士很看重沃利斯夫人。据说她是一个非常漂亮的女人，美丽。 ‘他渴望见到她。他希望她能为他在街上不断经过的许多非常朴素的面孔做出一些补偿。巴斯最糟糕的是其朴素妇女的数量。他并不是说没有漂亮女人，但平原的数量是不成比例的。当他走路时，他经常观察到，一张英俊的脸庞后面会伴随着三十，或五加三十的恐惧。有一次，当他站在邦德街的一家商店里时，他数了数，有八十七个女人一个接一个地走过，但她们中间没有一张容得下的面孔。毫无疑问，这是一个寒冷的早晨，一场严霜，千分之一的女人几乎没有一个能经受住考验。不过，巴斯确实有大量丑陋的女人。至于男人们！他们更糟糕。街上到处都是这样的稻草人！很明显，女人们对外表得体的男人所产生的效果是多么不习惯。 他每次和沃利斯上校（他是一位优秀的军事人物，虽然头发是沙色的）手挽着手走到任何地方，都会注意到每个女人的目光都在看着他；每个女人的目光肯定都集中在沃利斯上校身上。谦虚的沃尔特爵士！然而，他不被允许逃跑。他的女儿和克莱夫人一致暗示，沃利斯上校的同伴可能和沃利斯上校一样身材好，而且肯定不是沙色头发。

‘How is Mary looking?’ said Sir Walter, in the height of his good humour. ‘The last time I saw her she had a red nose, but I hope that may not happen every day.’
“玛丽看上去怎么样？”沃尔特爵士心情极好地说。 “我上次见到她时，她的鼻子是红的，但我希望这种情况不会每天都发生。”

‘Oh! no, that must have been quite accidental. In general she has been in very good health and very good looks since Michaelmas.’
'哦！不，这一定是非常偶然的。总的来说，自米迦勒节以来，她的健康状况一直很好，容貌也很漂亮。”

‘If I thought it would not tempt her to go out in sharp winds, and grow coarse, I would send her a new hat and pelisse.’
“如果我认为这不会诱惑她在强风中外出并变得粗鲁，我就会送她一顶新帽子和外套。”

Anne was considering whether she should venture to suggest that a gown, or a cap, would not be liable to any such misuse, when a knock at the door suspended everything. ‘A knock at the door! and so late! It was ten o’clock. Could it be Mr Elliot? They knew he was to dine in Lansdown Crescent. It was possible that he might stop in his way home to ask them how they did. They could think of no one else. Mrs Clay decidedly thought it Mr Elliot’s knock.’ Mrs Clay was right. With all the state which a butler and foot-boy could give, Mr Elliot was ushered into the room.
安妮正在考虑是否应该大胆地建议一件长袍或一顶帽子不会受到任何此类误用，这时一阵敲门声暂停了一切。 ‘敲门声！这么晚了！已经十点了。会是埃利奥特先生吗？他们知道他要在兰斯当新月吃饭。他可能会在回家的路上停下来询问他们过得怎么样。他们想不到其他人了。克莱夫人肯定认为这是埃利奥特先生的敲门声。”克莱夫人是对的。埃利奥特先生以管家和男仆的姿态被带进了房间。

It was the same, the very same man, with no difference but of dress. Anne drew a little back, while the others received his compliments, and her sister his apologies for calling at so unusual an hour, but ‘he could not be so near without wishing to know that neither she nor her friend had taken cold the day before,’ &c. &c; which was all as politely done, and as politely taken, as possible, but her part must follow then. Sir Walter talked of his youngest daughter; ‘Mr Elliot must give him leave to present him to his youngest daughter’ (there was no occasion for remembering Mary); and Anne, smiling and blushing, very becomingly shewed to Mr Elliot the pretty features which he had by no means forgotten, and instantly saw, with amusement at his little start of surprise, that he had not been at all aware of who she was. He looked completely astonished, but not more astonished than pleased; his eyes brightened! and with the most perfect alacrity he welcomed the relationship, alluded to the past, and entreated to be received as an acquaintance already. He was quite as good-looking as he had appeared at Lyme, his countenance improved by speaking, and his manners were so exactly what they ought to be, so polished, so easy, so particularly agreeable, that she could compare them in excellence to only one person’s manners. They were not the same, but they were, perhaps, equally good.
是同一个，同一个男人，除了衣着之外没有任何区别。安妮稍稍后退了一步，而其他人则接受了他的恭维，而她的妹妹则为在如此不寻常的时刻打电话表示歉意，但是“他不可能走得这么近而不希望知道她和她的朋友前一天都没有感冒” ，' ＆C。 ＆C;这一切都尽可能礼貌地完成，也尽可能礼貌地接受，但她的部分必须随之而来。沃尔特爵士谈到了他最小的女儿。 “埃利奥特先生必须准许他把他介绍给他最小的女儿”（没有必要想起玛丽）；安妮微笑着，脸红了，非常恰当地向埃利奥特先生展示了他从未忘记的美丽容貌，并立即发现，对他的小惊讶感到好笑，他根本不知道她是谁。他看起来完全惊讶了，但惊讶的程度并不比高兴的程度高。他的眼睛亮了！他以最完美的热情欢迎这种关系，提到了过去，并恳求我们已经像熟人一样受到接待。他的相貌和在莱姆时一样英俊，他的面容因说话而改善，他的举止也完全符合他们应有的样子，那么优雅，那么轻松，那么特别令人愉快，以至于她可以将他们与只有一个人的礼仪。他们并不相同，但也许同样优秀。

He sat down with them, and improved their conversation very much. There could be no doubt of his being a sensible man. Ten minutes were enough to certify that. His tone, his expressions, his choice of subject, his knowing where to stop; it was all the operation of a sensible, discerning mind. As soon as he could, he began to talk to her of Lyme, wanting to compare opinions respecting the place, but especially wanting to speak of the circumstance of their happening to be guests in the same inn at the same time; to give his own route, understand something of hers, and regret that he should have lost such an opportunity of paying his respects to her. She gave him a short account of her party and business at Lyme. His regret increased as he listened. He had spent his whole solitary evening in the room adjoining theirs; had heard voices, mirth continually; thought they must be a most delightful set of people, longed to be with them, but certainly without the smallest suspicion of his possessing the shadow of a right to introduce himself. If he had but asked who the party were! The name of Musgrove would have told him enough. ‘Well, it would serve to cure him of an absurd practice of never asking a question at an inn, which he had adopted, when quite a young man, on the principal of its being very ungenteel to be curious.
他和他们坐下来，大大改善了他们的谈话。毫无疑问，他是一个明智的人。十分钟足以证明这一点。他的语气、他的表情、他对主题的选择、他知道在哪里停止；这都是一个明智、有洞察力的头脑的运作。他一有机会就开始和她谈论莱姆，想比较一下对这个地方的看法，但特别想谈谈他们碰巧同时在同一家旅馆做客的情况；给出自己的路线，了解她的一些情况，遗憾自己失去了这样一个向她致敬的机会。她向他简要介绍了她在莱姆举行的聚会和生意。他越听越后悔。他整个晚上都是在他们隔壁的房间里度过的。不断听到欢声笑语；我想他们一定是一群最令人愉快的人，渴望和他们在一起，但肯定没有丝毫怀疑他拥有自我介绍权的影子。如果他问一下这群人是谁就好了！穆斯格罗夫的名字已经足够告诉他了。 “好吧，这将有助于纠正他在旅馆里从来不问问题的荒唐习惯，他在年轻时就采取了这种做法，其原则是好奇是非常不礼貌的。

‘The notions of a young man of one or two and twenty,’ said he, ‘as to what is necessary in manners to make him quite the thing, are more absurd, I believe, than those of any other set of beings in the world. The folly of the means they often employ is only to be equalled by the folly of what they have in view.’
“我相信，一个一岁、两岁、二十岁的年轻人对于如何使自己成为真正的人所必需的礼仪的观念，比这个世界上任何其他人的观念都更加荒谬。世界。他们经常使用的手段的愚蠢程度与他们的想法的愚蠢程度相当。

But he must not be addressing his reflections to Anne alone: he knew it; he was soon diffused again among the others, and it was only at intervals that he could return to Lyme.
但他绝不能只对安妮说出自己的想法：他知道这一点；他知道这一点。他很快又分散到了其他人中间，只是偶尔才回到莱姆。

His enquiries, however, produced at length an account of the scene she had been engaged in there, soon after his leaving the place. Having alluded to ‘an accident,’ he must hear the whole. When he questioned, Sir Walter and Elizabeth began to question also, but the difference in their manner of doing it could not be unfelt. She could only compare Mr Elliot to Lady Russell, in the wish of really comprehending what had passed, and in the degree of concern for what she must have suffered in witnessing it.
然而，他的询问最终得出了他离开这个地方后不久，她在那里发生的场景的描述。既然提到了‘一次意外’，他一定听到了全部的事情。当他提出疑问时，沃尔特爵士和伊丽莎白也开始提出疑问，但他们的做法差异是显而易见的。她只能将埃利奥特先生与拉塞尔夫人进行比较，希望真正理解所发生的事情，以及对她在目睹这一切时所遭受的痛苦的关心程度。

He staid an hour with them. The elegant little clock on the mantelpiece had struck ‘eleven with its silver sounds,’ and the watchman was beginning to be heard at a distance telling the same tale, before Mr Elliot or any of them seemed to feel that he had been there long.
他和他们一起待了一个小时。壁炉架上优雅的小钟已经敲响了“十一点”，远处传来守夜人讲述同样的故事，艾略特先生或他们中的任何一个人似乎都觉得他已经在那里很久了。

Anne could not have supposed it possible that her first evening in Camden Place could have passed so well!
安妮没想到她在卡姆登广场的第一个晚上会过得这么顺利！

Chapter 16
第16章

There was one point which Anne, on returning to her family, would have been more thankful to ascertain even than Mr Elliot’s being in love with Elizabeth, which was, her father’s not being in love with Mrs Clay; and she was very far from easy about it, when she had been at home a few hours. On going down to breakfast the next morning, she found there had just been a decent pretence on the lady’s side of meaning to leave them. She could imagine Mrs Clay to have said, that ‘now Miss Anne was come, she could not suppose herself at all wanted;’ for Elizabeth was replying in a sort of whisper, ‘That must not be any reason, indeed. I assure you I feel it none. She is nothing to me, compared with you;’ and she was in full time to hear her father say, ‘My dear madam, this must not be. As yet, you have seen nothing of Bath. You have been here only to be useful. You must not run away from us now. You must stay to be acquainted with Mrs Wallis, the beautiful Mrs Wallis. To your fine mind, I well know the sight of beauty is a real gratification.’
有一点，当安妮回到家人身边时，她会比埃利奥特先生爱上伊丽莎白更感激她能查明这一点，那就是，她父亲并不爱克莱夫人。当她在家呆了几个小时后，她对此感到非常不安。第二天早上去吃早餐时，她发现这位女士假装要离开他们。她可以想象克莱夫人说过，“现在安妮小姐来了，她认为自己根本不被需要”；因为伊丽莎白正在用一种低声回答，“确实，这一定不是任何理由。”我向你保证我感觉不到。与你相比，她对我来说微不足道；”她正好听到父亲说：“亲爱的夫人，这一定不是这样的。到目前为止，你还没有看到巴斯。你来这里只是为了有用。你现在不可以逃离我们。你一定要留下来认识沃利斯夫人，美丽的沃利斯夫人。对于你聪明的头脑来说，我很清楚看到美丽是一种真正的满足。

He spoke and looked so much in earnest, that Anne was not surprised to see Mrs Clay stealing a glance at Elizabeth and herself. Her countenance, perhaps, might express some watchfulness; but the praise of the fine mind did not appear to excite a thought in her sister. The lady could not but yield to such joint entreaties, and promise to stay.
他说话、看上去都那么认真，以至于安妮看到克莱夫人偷偷瞄了一眼伊丽莎白和她自己，并不感到惊讶。她的表情也许会流露出某种警惕的神色。但对聪明才智的赞扬似乎并没有激起她姐姐的任何想法。这位女士不得不屈服于这样的共同恳求，并答应留下来。

In the course of the same morning, Anne and her father chancing to be alone together, he began to compliment her on her improved looks; he thought her ‘less thin in her person, in her cheeks; her skin, her complexion, greatly improved; clearer, fresher. Had she been using any thing in particular?’ ‘No, nothing.’ ‘Merely Gowland,’ he supposed. ‘No, nothing at all.’ ‘Ha! he was surprised at that;’ and added, ‘certainly you cannot do better than to continue as you are; you cannot be better than well; or I should recommend Gowland, the constant use of Gowland, during the spring months. Mrs Clay has been using it at my recommendation, and you see what it has done for her. You see how it has carried away her freckles.’
当天早上，安妮和她的父亲有机会单独在一起，他开始称赞她的容貌有所改善。他认为她“身材、脸颊都不那么瘦弱”；她的皮肤，她的气色，大大改善了；更清晰、更清新。她用过什么特别的东西吗？” “没有，什么也没用。” “只是高兰，”他猜想。 “不，什么也没有。”“哈！他对此感到惊讶，”并补充道，“当然，你最好还是继续现状；你再好不过了；或者我应该推荐 Gowland，在春季持续使用 Gowland。克莱夫人在我的推荐下一直在使用它，你知道它对她有什么作用。你看它是如何消除了她的雀斑的。”

If Elizabeth could but have heard this! Such personal praise might have struck her, especially as it did not appear to Anne that the freckles were at all lessened. But everything must take its chance. The evil of a marriage would be much diminished, if Elizabeth were also to marry. As for herself, she might always command a home with Lady Russell.
如果伊丽莎白能听到这个就好了！这种个人的赞扬可能会打动她，尤其是在安妮看来，雀斑根本没有减少。但一切都必须抓住机会。如果伊丽莎白也结婚的话，婚姻的罪恶就会大大减少。至于她自己，她可能永远和拉塞尔夫人一起拥有一个家。

Lady Russell’s composed mind and polite manners were put to some trial on this point, in her intercourse in Camden Place. The sight of Mrs Clay in such favour, and of Anne so overlooked, was a perpetual provocation to her there; and vexed her as much when she was away, as a person in Bath who drinks the water, gets all the new publications, and has a very large acquaintance, has time to be vexed.
拉塞尔夫人在卡姆登广场的交往中，她的冷静头脑和礼貌举止在这一点上受到了考验。看到克莱夫人如此受宠，安妮又如此被忽视，对她来说是一种永恒的挑衅。当她不在的时候，这让她烦恼，就像一个在巴斯喝水、得到所有新出版物、有很多熟人的人有时间烦恼一样。

As Mr Elliot became known to her, she grew more charitable, or more indifferent, towards the others. His manners were an immediate recommendation; and on conversing with him she found the solid so fully supporting the superficial, that she was at first, as she told Anne, almost ready to exclaim, ‘Can this be Mr Elliot?’ and could not seriously picture to herself a more agreeable or estimable man. Everything united in him; good understanding, correct opinions, knowledge of the world, and a warm heart. He had strong feelings of family attachment and family honour, without pride or weakness; he lived with the liberality of a man of fortune, without display; he judged for himself in everything essential, without defying public opinion in any point of worldly decorum. He was steady, observant, moderate, candid; never run away with by spirits or by selfishness, which fancied itself strong feeling; and yet, with a sensibility to what was amiable and lovely, and a value for all the felicities of domestic life, which characters of fancied enthusiasm and violent agitation seldom really possess. She was sure that he had not been happy in marriage. Colonel Wallis said it, and Lady Russell saw it; but it had been no unhappiness to sour his mind, nor (she began pretty soon to suspect) to prevent his thinking of a second choice. Her satisfaction in Mr Elliot outweighed all the plague of Mrs Clay.
随着埃利奥特先生为她所了解，她对其他人变得更加仁慈，或者更加冷漠。他的举止立刻就得到了推荐。在与他交谈时，她发现实体如此完全支持肤浅，正如她告诉安妮的那样，她一开始几乎准备好惊呼，“这可能是埃利奥特先生吗？”并且无法认真地为自己想象一个更令人愉快或更令人愉快的人。值得尊敬的人。一切都在他身上融为一体；良好的理解力、正确的观点、对世界的认识、以及一颗温暖的心。他有强烈的家庭依恋和家庭荣誉感，不骄傲也不软弱；他过着富人般的慷慨生活，不张扬。他在一切重要的事情上都做出自己的判断，不会在任何世俗礼节上藐视公众舆论。他沉稳、善于观察、温和、坦诚；永远不要因为精神或自私而逃避，因为它们自以为有强烈的感情；然而，他们对和蔼可亲、可爱的事物有一种敏感度，对家庭生活的一切幸福都有一种珍视，而这些是幻想中的热情和剧烈激动的人物很少真正具备的。她确信他的婚姻并不幸福。沃利斯上校这么说，拉塞尔夫人也看到了。但这并没有使他的思想变坏，也没有阻止他考虑第二个选择（她很快就开始怀疑）。她对埃利奥特先生的满意超过了克莱夫人的所有烦恼。

It was now some years since Anne had begun to learn that she and her excellent friend could sometimes think differently; and it did not surprise her, therefore, that Lady Russell should see nothing suspicious or inconsistent, nothing to require more motives than appeared, in Mr Elliot’s great desire of a reconciliation. In Lady Russell’s view, it was perfectly natural that Mr Elliot, at a mature time of life, should feel it a most desirable object, and what would very generally recommend him among all sensible people, to be on good terms with the head of his family; the simplest process in the world of time upon a head naturally clear, and only erring in the heyday of youth. Anne presumed, however, still to smile about it, and at last to mention ‘Elizabeth.’ Lady Russell listened, and looked, and made only this cautious reply:—‘Elizabeth! very well; time will explain.’
几年前，安妮开始认识到，她和她的好朋友有时会有不同的想法。因此，拉塞尔夫人认为埃利奥特先生强烈的和解愿望中没有任何可疑或前后矛盾的地方，也没有什么比看上去更需要动机的东西，这并不令她感到惊讶。在拉塞尔夫人看来，埃利奥特先生在人生的成熟时期，会觉得这是一个最令人向往的对象，这是非常自然的，而且在所有明智的人中，通常会建议他与他的领导保持良好的关系。家庭;时间世界中最简单的过程在头脑中自然清晰，只有在青春的鼎盛时期才会犯错。然而，安妮仍想对此微笑，最后提到“伊丽莎白”。拉塞尔夫人听着，看了看，只谨慎地回答道：“伊丽莎白！”很好;时间会解释的。”

It was a reference to the future, which Anne, after a little observation, felt she must submit to. She could determine nothing at present. In that house Elizabeth must be first; and she was in the habit of such general observance as ‘Miss Elliot,’ that any particularity of attention seemed almost impossible. Mr Elliot, too, it must be remembered, had not been a widower seven months. A little delay on his side might be very excusable. In fact, Anne could never see the crape round his hat, without fearing that she was the inexcusable one, in attributing to him such imaginations; for though his marriage had not been very happy, still it had existed so many years that she could not comprehend a very rapid recovery from the awful impression of its being dissolved.
这是对未来的提及，安妮经过一番观察后觉得她必须服从。她目前无法确定任何事情。在那所房子里，伊丽莎白必须排在第一位；她习惯于像“埃利奥特小姐”那样普遍遵守，因此几乎不可能受到任何特殊的关注。必须记住，埃利奥特先生也没有成为鳏夫七个月。对他来说，稍微拖延一下也许是可以原谅的。事实上，安妮永远无法看到他帽子上的黑纱，而不担心她是不可原谅的人，将这种想象力归咎于他。因为虽然他的婚姻不是很幸福，但婚姻已经存在了很多年，她无法理解如何从婚姻破裂的可怕印象中很快恢复过来。

However it might end, he was without any question their pleasantest acquaintance in Bath: she saw nobody equal to him; and it was a great indulgence now and then to talk to him about Lyme, which he seemed to have as lively a wish to see again, and to see more of, as herself. They went through the particulars of their first meeting a great many times. He gave her to understand that he had looked at her with some earnestness. She knew it well; and she remembered another person’s look also.
不管结果如何，毫无疑问，他是他们在巴斯最愉快的熟人：她认为没有人能与他相提并论；她认为没有人能与他相提并论。时不时地和他谈论莱姆真是一种极大的放纵，他似乎像她一样渴望再次见到莱姆，并看到更多。他们多次回顾了第一次见面的细节。他让她明白，他看她的眼神有些认真。她很清楚这一点。她还记得另一个人的样子。

They did not always think alike. His value for rank and connexion she perceived was greater than hers. It was not merely complaisance, it must be a liking to the cause, which made him enter warmly into her father and sister’s solicitudes on a subject which she thought unworthy to excite them. The Bath paper one morning announced the arrival of the Dowager Viscountess Dalrymple, and her daughter, the Honourable Miss Carteret; and all the comfort of No.—, Camden Place, was swept away for many days; for the Dalrymples (in Anne’s opinion, most unfortunately) were cousins of the Elliots; and the agony was how to introduce themselves properly.
他们的想法并不总是一样。她认为他对地位和关系的重视程度比她高。这不仅仅是一种奉承，而且一定是对事业的喜爱，这使得他热情地融入了她父亲和姐姐对她认为不值得激起他们的话题的关心。一天早上，巴斯报纸报道了达尔林普尔子爵夫人和她的女儿卡特雷特小姐的到来。卡姆登广场的一切舒适感都被一扫而光了很多天。因为达尔林普家族（在安妮看来，这是最不幸的）是埃利奥特家族的堂兄弟。而痛苦的是如何正确地自我介绍。

Anne had never seen her father and sister before in contact with nobility, and she must acknowledge herself disappointed. She had hoped better things from their high ideas of their own situation in life, and was reduced to form a wish which she had never foreseen; a wish that they had more pride; for ‘our cousins Lady Dalrymple and Miss Carteret;’ ‘our cousins, the Dalrymples,’ sounded in her ears all day long.
安妮以前从未见过她的父亲和妹妹与贵族接触过，她必须承认自己很失望。她原本希望从他们对自己生活状况的高远的想法中得到更好的东西，但最终却变成了一个她从未预见到的愿望；希望他们有更多的自豪感； “我们的表兄弟达尔林普尔夫人和卡特雷特小姐”；“我们的表兄弟达尔林普尔一家”整天在她耳边响起。

Sir Walter had once been in company with the late viscount, but had never seen any of the rest of the family; and the difficulties of the case arose from there having been a suspension of all intercourse by letters of ceremony, ever since the death of that said late viscount, when, in consequence of a dangerous illness of Sir Walter’s at the same time, there had been an unlucky omission at Kellynch. No letter of condolence had been sent to Ireland. The neglect had been visited on the head of the sinner; for when poor Lady Elliot died herself, no letter of condolence was received at Kellynch, and, consequently, there was but too much reason to apprehend that the Dalrymples considered the relationship as closed. How to have this anxious business set to rights, and be admitted as cousins again, was the question: and it was a question which, in a more rational manner, neither Lady Russell nor Mr Elliot thought unimportant. ‘Family connexions were always worth preserving, good company always worth seeking; Lady Dalrymple had taken a house, for three months, in Laura Place, and would be living in style. She had been at Bath the year before, and Lady Russell had heard her spoken of as a charming woman. It was very desirable that the connexion should be renewed, if it could be done, without any compromise of propriety on the side of the Elliots.’
沃尔特爵士曾与已故子爵在一起，但从未见过家里的其他成员。案件的困难在于，自从那位已故子爵去世以来，所有的交往都通过礼信中止了，当时，由于沃尔特爵士同时患上了危险的疾病，凯林奇的一个不幸的遗漏。尚未向爱尔兰发出任何慰问信。这种疏忽已经落在了罪人的头上。因为当可怜的埃利奥特夫人自己去世时，凯林奇没有收到任何吊唁信，因此，有太多理由担心达尔林普夫妇认为这种关系已经结束。如何让这桩令人焦急的事情得到纠正，并再次被承认为表兄弟，这就是问题：拉塞尔夫人和埃利奥特先生都以更理性的方式认为这个问题不重要。 “家庭关系总是值得维护，良伴总是值得寻求；达尔林普尔夫人在劳拉广场租了一栋房子三个月，并且将过着时尚的生活。她前一年曾去过巴斯，拉塞尔夫人听人说她是一位迷人的女人。如果可以的话，在不损害埃利奥特家族的正当性的情况下，重新建立联系是非常可取的。

Sir Walter, however, would choose his own means, and at last wrote a very fine letter of ample explanation, regret, and entreaty, to his right honourable cousin. Neither Lady Russell nor Mr Elliot could admire the letter; but it did all that was wanted, in bringing three lines of scrawl from the Dowager Viscountess. ‘She was very much honoured, and should be happy in their acquaintance.’ The toils of the business were over, the sweets began. They visited in Laura Place, they had the cards of Dowager Viscountess Dalrymple, and the Honourable Miss Carteret, to be arranged wherever they might be most visible: and ‘Our cousins in Laura Place,’—‘Our cousin, Lady Dalrymple and Miss Carteret,’ were talked of to everybody.
然而，沃尔特爵士却选择了自己的方式，最后给他尊贵的表弟写了一封非常精美的信，其中充满了充分的解释、遗憾和恳求。拉塞尔夫人和埃利奥特先生都不欣赏这封信。但它满足了我们的要求，带来了子爵夫人潦草地写下的三行字。 “她感到非常荣幸，并且应该为他们的相识感到高兴。” 生意的辛苦工作结束了，糖果开始了。他们参观了劳拉广场，他们拿着达尔林普尔子爵夫人太后和卡特雷特小姐的名片，将它们安排在最显眼的地方：以及“我们在劳拉广场的表兄弟”——“我们的表兄弟，达尔林普尔夫人和卡特雷特小姐，”大家都在谈论。

Anne was ashamed. Had Lady Dalrymple and her daughter even been very agreeable, she would still have been ashamed of the agitation they created, but they were nothing. There was no superiority of manner, accomplishment, or understanding. Lady Dalrymple had acquired the name of ‘a charming woman,’ because she had a smile and a civil answer for everybody. Miss Carteret, with still less to say, was so plain and so awkward, that she would never have been tolerated in Camden Place but for her birth.
安妮感到羞愧。即使达尔林普尔夫人和她的女儿表现得非常和蔼可亲，她仍然会为她们所造成的骚动感到羞愧，但她们什么也不是。没有任何方式、成就或理解上的优势。达尔林普尔夫人获得了“迷人女人”的美誉，因为她对每个人都面带微笑，礼貌地回答。卡特雷特小姐，更不用说，是如此朴素和尴尬，如果不是因为她的出生，卡姆登广场永远不会容忍她。

Lady Russell confessed she had expected something better; but yet ‘it was an acquaintance worth having;’ and when Anne ventured to speak her opinion of them to Mr Elliot, he agreed to their being nothing in themselves, but still maintained that, as a family connexion, as good company, as those who would collect good company around them, they had their value. Anne smiled and said,
拉塞尔夫人承认她原本期待更好的事情。但是，“这是一个值得拥有的熟人；”当安妮冒险向埃利奥特先生讲述她对他们的看法时，他同意他们本身什么都不是，但仍然坚持认为，作为一个家庭关系，作为一个很好的伙伴，就像那些人一样。谁会在他们周围结交好朋友，他们就有自己的价值。安妮微笑着说道：

‘My idea of good company, Mr Elliot, is the company of clever, well-informed people, who have a great deal of conversation; that is what I call good company.’
“埃利奥特先生，我心目中的好伙伴是一群聪明、见多识广、能进行大量交谈的人；这就是我所说的好伙伴。

‘You are mistaken,’ said he gently, ‘that is not good company; that is the best. Good company requires only birth, education, and manners, and with regard to education is not very nice. Birth and good manners are essential; but a little learning is by no means a dangerous thing in good company; on the contrary, it will do very well. My cousin Anne shakes her head. She is not satisfied. She is fastidious. My dear cousin’ (sitting down by her), ‘you have a better right to be fastidious than almost any other woman I know; but will it answer? Will it make you happy? Will it not be wiser to accept the society of those good ladies in Laura Place, and enjoy all the advantages of the connexion as far as possible? You may depend upon it, that they will move in the first set in Bath this winter, and as rank is rank, your being known to be related to them will have its use in fixing your family (our family let me say) in that degree of consideration which we must all wish for.’
“你错了，”他温和地说，“那不是好伙伴；”那是最好的。好的陪伴只需要出身、教育和礼仪，而教育方面却不太好。出生和良好的举止是必不可少的；但在好朋友的陪伴下，学习一点知识绝不是一件危险的事情。相反，它会做得很好。我的表弟安妮摇摇头。她不满意。她很挑剔。我亲爱的表弟”（坐在她旁边），“你比我认识的几乎所有其他女人都更有权利挑剔；但它会回答吗？它会让你快乐吗？接受劳拉广场那些好女士的交往，并尽可能享受这种联系的所有好处，不是更明智吗？你可以相信，他们将在今年冬天在巴斯的第一盘比赛中出场，而且由于等级是等级，你与他们的关系将有助于修复你的家庭（让我说我们的家庭）我们都希望得到一定程度的考虑。

‘Yes,’ sighed Anne, ‘we shall, indeed, be known to be related to them!’ then recollecting herself, and not wishing to be answered, she added, ‘I certainly do think there has been by far too much trouble taken to procure the acquaintance. I suppose’ (smiling) ‘I have more pride than any of you; but I confess it does vex me, that we should be so solicitous to have the relationship acknowledged, which we may be very sure is a matter of perfect indifference to them.’
“是的，”安妮叹了口气，“确实，人们会知道我们和他们有关系！”然后她回想起自己，不想得到回答，又补充道，“我确实认为到目前为止，我们已经费了太多的麻烦。”去结识。我想”（微笑）“我比你们任何人都更加骄傲；但我承认这确实让我烦恼，我们应该如此热心地让这种关系得到承认，我们可以非常确定这对他们来说是完全漠不关心的问题。

‘Pardon me, dear cousin, you are unjust in your own claims. In London, perhaps, in your present quiet style of living, it might be as you say: but in Bath; Sir Walter Elliot and his family will always be worth knowing: always acceptable as acquaintance.’
“请原谅，亲爱的表弟，你的主张是不公正的。在伦敦，也许，以你目前安静的生活方式，可能会像你说的那样：但是在巴斯；沃尔特·埃利奥特爵士和他的家人永远值得认识：永远可以被视为熟人。

‘Well,’ said Anne, ‘I certainly am proud, too proud to enjoy a welcome which depends so entirely upon place.’
“好吧，”安妮说，“我当然很自豪，太自豪了，无法享受完全取决于地点的欢迎。”

‘I love your indignation,’ said he; ‘it is very natural. But here you are in Bath, and the object is to be established here with all the credit and dignity which ought to belong to Sir Walter Elliot. You talk of being proud; I am called proud, I know, and I shall not wish to believe myself otherwise; for our pride, if investigated, would have the same object, I have no doubt, though the kind may seem a little different. In one point, I am sure, my dear cousin,’ (he continued, speaking lower, though there was no one else in the room) ‘in one point, I am sure, we must feel alike. We must feel that every addition to your father’s society, among his equals or superiors, may be of use in diverting his thoughts from those who are beneath him.’
“我喜欢你的愤怒，”他说。 '这是很自然的。但你现在在巴斯，我们的目标是在这里建立，并拥有应属于沃尔特·埃利奥特爵士的所有荣誉和尊严。你说骄傲；我知道，我被称为骄傲，否则我不愿相信自己；因为我毫不怀疑，如果对我们的骄傲进行调查，就会发现同样的目标，尽管种类可能看起来有些不同。在某一点上，我确信，我亲爱的表弟，”（他继续说道，虽然房间里没有其他人，但他压低了声音）“在某一点上，我确信，我们一定有相似的感觉。我们必须感到，在你父亲的社会中，无论是在他的平等者还是上级者中，每一位新成员都可能有助于转移他对那些地位低于他的人的注意力。

He looked, as he spoke, to the seat which Mrs Clay had been lately occupying: a sufficient explanation of what he particularly meant; and though Anne could not believe in their having the same sort of pride, she was pleased with him for not liking Mrs Clay; and her conscience admitted that his wishing to promote her father’s getting great acquaintance was more than excusable in the view of defeating her.
说话的时候，他看着克莱夫人最近坐的座位：这充分解释了他的特别意思；虽然安妮不相信他们有同样的骄傲，但她对他不喜欢克莱夫人感到高兴。她的良心承认，他想促进她父亲结识，从打败她的角度来看，这是情有可原的。

Chapter 17
第17章

While Sir Walter and Elizabeth were assiduously pushing their good fortune in Laura Place, Anne was renewing an acquaintance of a very different description.
当沃尔特爵士和伊丽莎白在劳拉广场孜孜不倦地争取好运时，安妮又结识了一位截然不同的朋友。

She had called on her former governess, and had heard from her of there being an old school-fellow in Bath, who had the two strong claims on her attention of past kindness and present suffering. Miss Hamilton, now Mrs Smith, had shewn her kindness in one of those periods of her life when it had been most valuable. Anne had gone unhappy to school, grieving for the loss of a mother whom she had dearly loved, feeling her separation from home, and suffering as a girl of fourteen, of strong sensibility and not high spirits, must suffer at such a time; and Miss Hamilton, three years older than herself, but still from the want of near relations and a settled home, remaining another year at school, had been useful and good to her in a way which had considerably lessened her misery, and could never be remembered with indifference.
她拜访了她以前的家庭女教师，并从她那里听说巴斯有一位老同学，她对过去的善良和现在的痛苦有两个强烈的要求。汉密尔顿小姐，现在的史密斯夫人，在她一生中最宝贵的时期之一表现出了她的善意。安妮不高兴地去上学了，她为失去深爱的母亲而悲痛，感到自己与家人分离，作为一个感情强烈但精神不高的十四岁女孩，在这种时候必须承受痛苦；汉密尔顿小姐比她大三岁，但由于缺乏近亲和安定的家，又在学校待了一年，她对她很有用，对她很好，大大减轻了她的痛苦，而且永远不可能冷漠地回忆着。

Miss Hamilton had left school, had married not long afterwards, was said to have married a man of fortune, and this was all that Anne had known of her, till now that their governess’s account brought her situation forward in a more decided but very different form.
汉密尔顿小姐已经离开学校，不久之后就结婚了，据说嫁给了一个有钱人，这就是安妮对她的全部了解，直到现在，他们的家庭女教师的叙述使她的处境更加明确，但又截然不同。形式。

She was a widow and poor. Her husband had been extravagant; and at his death, about two years before, had left his affairs dreadfully involved. She had had difficulties of every sort to contend with, and in addition to these distresses had been afflicted with a severe rheumatic fever, which, finally settling in her legs, had made her for the present a cripple. She had come to Bath on that account, and was now in lodgings near the hot baths, living in a very humble way, unable even to afford herself the comfort of a servant, and of course almost excluded from society.
她是一个寡妇，而且很穷。她的丈夫非常奢侈。大约两年前，他去世后，他的事务就陷入了可怕的困境。她有各种各样的困难需要克服，除了这些痛苦之外，还患有严重的风湿热，这种热最终落在了她的腿上，使她暂时瘫痪了。她就是为此才来到巴斯的，现在住在热水浴场附近的住处，过着非常简陋的生活，甚至无法给自己提供仆人的安慰，当然几乎被排除在社会之外。

Their mutual friend answered for the satisfaction which a visit from Miss Elliot would give Mrs Smith, and Anne therefore lost no time in going. She mentioned nothing of what she had heard, or what she intended, at home. It would excite no proper interest there. She only consulted Lady Russell, who entered thoroughly into her sentiments, and was most happy to convey her as near to Mrs Smith’s lodgings in Westgate Buildings, as Anne chose to be taken.
他们共同的朋友回答说，艾略特小姐的来访将使史密斯夫人感到满意，因此安妮立即前往。她没有提及她在家里听到的事情或她的意图。那里不会引起任何适当的兴趣。她只咨询了拉塞尔夫人，拉塞尔夫人彻底了解了她的感受，并非常乐意将她带到靠近史密斯夫人在西门大楼的住处，正如安妮选择的那样。

The visit was paid, their acquaintance re-established, their interest in each other more than re-kindled. The first ten minutes had its awkwardness and its emotion. Twelve years were gone since they had parted, and each presented a somewhat different person from what the other had imagined. Twelve years had changed Anne from the blooming, silent, unformed girl of fifteen, to the elegant little woman of seven-and-twenty, with every beauty except bloom, and with manners as consciously right as they were invariably gentle; and twelve years had transformed the fine-looking, well-grown Miss Hamilton, in all the glow of health and confidence of superiority, into a poor, infirm, helpless widow, receiving the visit of her former protegee as a favour; but all that was uncomfortable in the meeting had soon passed away, and left only the interesting charm of remembering former partialities and talking over old times.
这次拜访结束了，他们重新认识了，他们对彼此的兴趣也重新点燃了。前十分钟有其尴尬和情绪。分开已经十二年了，每个人都呈现出与对方想象中有些不同的样子。十二年的时间，安妮从一个十五岁的青春靓丽、沉默寡言、尚未成形的女孩，变成了七岁、二十岁的优雅小女人，除了绽放之外，一切都美丽，举止自觉得体，但总是温柔；十二年的时间里，外表美丽、成长良好、身体健康、对优越充满信心的汉密尔顿小姐，变成了一个贫穷、体弱、无助的寡妇，接受了她以前的门生的拜访作为恩惠。但见面时的不愉快很快就过去了，只剩下忆往昔、叙旧的有趣韵味。

Anne found in Mrs Smith the good sense and agreeable manners which she had almost ventured to depend on, and a disposition to converse and be cheerful beyond her expectation. Neither the dissipations of the past—and she had lived very much in the world—nor the restrictions of the present, neither sickness nor sorrow seemed to have closed her heart or ruined her spirits.
安妮在史密斯太太身上发现了她几乎冒险依赖的良好判断力和令人愉快的举止，以及超出她预期的交谈和愉快的性格。无论是过去的放荡——她在世上生活得很多——还是现在的限制，无论是疾病还是悲伤，似乎都没有封闭她的心或摧毁她的精神。

In the course of a second visit she talked with great openness, and Anne’s astonishment increased. She could scarcely imagine a more cheerless situation in itself than Mrs Smith’s. She had been very fond of her husband: she had buried him. She had been used to affluence: it was gone. She had no child to connect her with life and happiness again, no relations to assist in the arrangement of perplexed affairs, no health to make all the rest supportable. Her accommodations were limited to a noisy parlour, and a dark bedroom behind, with no possibility of moving from one to the other without assistance, which there was only one servant in the house to afford, and she never quitted the house but to be conveyed into the warm bath. Yet, in spite of all this, Anne had reason to believe that she had moments only of languor and depression, to hours of occupation and enjoyment. How could it be? She watched, observed, reflected, and finally determined that this was not a case of fortitude or of resignation only. A submissive spirit might be patient, a strong understanding would supply resolution, but here was something more; here was that elasticity of mind, that disposition to be comforted, that power of turning readily from evil to good, and of finding employment which carried her out of herself, which was from nature alone. It was the choicest gift of Heaven; and Anne viewed her friend as one of those instances in which, by a merciful appointment, it seems designed to counterbalance almost every other want.
在第二次拜访的过程中，她的谈话非常开放，安妮更加惊讶了。她几乎无法想象还有比史密斯夫人的处境更令人沮丧的情况了。她非常爱她的丈夫：她埋葬了他。她已经习惯了富裕：现在已经消失了。她没有孩子可以让她重新与生活和幸福联系起来，没有亲戚可以帮助她安排复杂的事务，没有健康可以支撑其他一切。她的住所仅限于一间吵闹的客厅，后面是一间黑暗的卧室，没有帮助就不可能从一间搬到另一间，家里只有一名仆人负担得起，她从来没有离开过房子，而是被人送走。进入温水浴。然而，尽管如此，安妮还是有理由相信，她只有慵懒和沮丧的时刻，也有忙碌和享受的时刻。怎么会这样？她观察、观察、反思，最终认定这不仅仅是坚忍或听天由命的问题。顺服的精神可能是有耐心的，强烈的理解可以提供决心，但这里还有更多的东西；正是这种心灵的弹性、那种令人安慰的性情、那种轻易转恶为善、找到工作的力量，使她摆脱了自我，而这一切都来自于自然。这是上天最好的礼物；安妮认为她的朋友就是这样的例子之一，在这种情况下，通过仁慈的任命，它似乎旨在平衡几乎所有其他的需求。

There had been a time, Mrs Smith told her, when her spirits had nearly failed. She could not call herself an invalid now, compared with her state on first reaching Bath. Then she had, indeed, been a pitiable object; for she had caught cold on the journey, and had hardly taken possession of her lodgings before she was again confined to her bed and suffering under severe and constant pain; and all this among strangers, with the absolute necessity of having a regular nurse, and finances at that moment particularly unfit to meet any extraordinary expense. She had weathered it, however, and could truly say that it had done her good. It had increased her comforts by making her feel herself to be in good hands. She had seen too much of the world, to expect sudden or disinterested attachment anywhere, but her illness had proved to her that her landlady had a character to preserve, and would not use her ill; and she had been particularly fortunate in her nurse, as a sister of her landlady, a nurse by profession, and who had always a home in that house when unemployed, chanced to be at liberty just in time to attend her. ‘And she,’ said Mrs Smith, ‘besides nursing me most admirably, has really proved an invaluable acquaintance. As soon as I could use my hands she taught me to knit, which has been a great amusement; and she put me in the way of making these little thread-cases, pin-cushions and card-racks, which you always find me so busy about, and which supply me with the means of doing a little good to one or two very poor families in this neighbourhood. She had a large acquaintance, of course professionally, among those who can afford to buy, and she disposes of my merchandise. She always takes the right time for applying. Everybody’s heart is open, you know, when they have recently escaped from severe pain, or are recovering the blessing of health, and Nurse Rooke thoroughly understands when to speak. She is a shrewd, intelligent, sensible woman. Hers is a line for seeing human nature; and she has a fund of good sense and observation, which, as a companion, make her infinitely superior to thousands of those who having only received ‘the best education in the world,’ know nothing worth attending to. Call it gossip, if you will, but when Nurse Rooke has half an hour’s leisure to bestow on me, she is sure to have something to relate that is entertaining and profitable: something that makes one know one’s species better. One likes to hear what is going on, to be au fait as to the newest modes of being trifling and silly. To me, who live so much alone, her conversation, I assure you, is a treat.’
史密斯夫人告诉她，曾经有一段时间，她的精神几乎崩溃了。与刚到达巴斯时的状态相比，她现在不能称自己为病人。那么她确实是一个可怜的对象。因为她在旅途中感冒了，刚搬到住处，就又躺在床上，忍受着剧烈而持续的疼痛。所有这一切都发生在陌生人身上，绝对需要有一名固定护士，而当时的财务状况特别不适合支付任何额外的费用。然而，她已经经受住了这一切，并且确实可以说这对她有好处。这让她感觉自己得到了良好的照顾，增加了她的舒适感。她见过太多的世界，不会期望在任何地方都会突然或无私地依恋，但她的病向她证明，她的女房东有一个需要保持的品格，不会伤害她；她特别幸运的是，有她的保姆，她是女房东的妹妹，她的职业是护士，她失业时总是住在那栋房子里，碰巧有空来照顾她。 “而她，”史密斯夫人说，“除了最令人钦佩地照顾我之外，事实证明她确实是一位无价的熟人。我一会动手，她就教我编织，这真是一种乐趣。她让我制作这些小线盒、针垫和卡片架，你总是发现我很忙，它们为我提供了为一两个非常贫穷的人做一点善事的方法这个街区的家庭。她在那些有能力购买的人中拥有很多熟人，当然是专业人士，而且她处理了我的商品。她总是选择合适的时间来申请。 你知道，当他们最近摆脱了剧烈的痛苦，或者正在恢复健康的祝福时，每个人的心都是开放的，鲁克护士完全明白什么时候该说话。她是一个精明、聪明、懂事的女人。她的台词是看到人性的台词；她具有良好的判断力和观察力，作为同伴，这使她比成千上万只接受过“世界上最好的教育”、不知道什么值得关注的人优越得多。如果你愿意的话，可以称其为八卦，但当鲁克护士有半个小时的空闲时间给我时，她肯定会讲一些有趣且有益的事情：一些让人们更好地了解自己物种的事情。人们喜欢听听正在发生的事情，喜欢了解最新的琐碎和愚蠢的方式。对于我这样一个孤独生活的人来说，我向你保证，她的谈话是一种享受。’

Anne, far from wishing to cavil at the pleasure, replied, ‘I can easily believe it. Women of that class have great opportunities, and if they are intelligent may be well worth listening to. Such varieties of human nature as they are in the habit of witnessing! And it is not merely in its follies, that they are well read; for they see it occasionally under every circumstance that can be most interesting or affecting. What instances must pass before them of ardent, disinterested, self-denying attachment, of heroism, fortitude, patience, resignation: of all the conflicts and all the sacrifices that ennoble us most. A sick chamber may often furnish the worth of volumes.’
安妮并不想对这种快乐吹毛求疵，她回答说：“我很容易相信这一点。”这个阶层的女性有很大的机会，如果她们聪明的话，可能很值得倾听。他们经常目睹人性的如此多变！这些书之所以被广泛阅读，不仅在于其愚蠢之处；还在于其愚蠢之处。因为他们偶尔会在各种最有趣或最感人的情况下看到它。他们面前必定会浮现出热切、无私、克己的执着、英雄主义、坚韧、耐心、顺从的实例：所有最让我们崇高的冲突和牺牲。一间病房往往可以提供相当多的书。

‘Yes,’ said Mrs Smith more doubtingly, ‘sometimes it may, though I fear its lessons are not often in the elevated style you describe. Here and there, human nature may be great in times of trial; but generally speaking, it is its weakness and not its strength that appears in a sick chamber: it is selfishness and impatience rather than generosity and fortitude, that one hears of. There is so little real friendship in the world! and unfortunately’ (speaking low and tremulously) ‘there are so many who forget to think seriously till it is almost too late.’
“是的，”史密斯夫人更加怀疑地说，“有时可能是这样，尽管我担心它的教训并不经常是你所描述的高尚风格。在某些地方，人性在考验的时候可能是伟大的。但一般来说，病房里表现出的是它的弱点，而不是它的力量：人们听到的是自私和急躁，而不是慷慨和坚韧。世界上真正的友谊何其少！不幸的是”（声音低沉而颤抖）“有很多人忘记认真思考，直到几乎为时已晚。”

Anne saw the misery of such feelings. The husband had not been what he ought, and the wife had been led among that part of mankind which made her think worse of the world than she hoped it deserved. It was but a passing emotion however with Mrs Smith; she shook it off, and soon added in a different tone—
安妮看到了这种感情的痛苦。丈夫没有成为他应有的样子，而妻子则被引导到属于人类的那一部分，这使她对这个世界的看法比她希望的更糟糕。然而，对于史密斯夫人来说，这只是一闪而过的情绪。她甩掉这句话，很快又用不同的语气补充道——

‘I do not suppose the situation my friend Mrs Rooke is in at present, will furnish much either to interest or edify me. She is only nursing Mrs Wallis of Marlborough Buildings; a mere pretty, silly, expensive, fashionable woman, I believe; and of course will have nothing to report but of lace and finery. I mean to make my profit of Mrs Wallis, however. She has plenty of money, and I intend she shall buy all the high-priced things I have in hand now.’
“我不认为我的朋友鲁克夫人目前的处境不会引起我的兴趣或启发。她只是在护理马尔伯勒大厦的沃利斯夫人；我相信，只是一个漂亮、愚蠢、昂贵、时尚的女人；当然，除了蕾丝和华丽之外，没有什么可报告的。不过，我的意思是从沃利斯夫人那里获利。她有很多钱，我打算她把我现在手里的所有高价东西都买下来。

Anne had called several times on her friend, before the existence of such a person was known in Camden Place. At last, it became necessary to speak of her. Sir Walter, Elizabeth and Mrs Clay, returned one morning from Laura Place, with a sudden invitation from Lady Dalrymple for the same evening, and Anne was already engaged, to spend that evening in Westgate Buildings. She was not sorry for the excuse. They were only asked, she was sure, because Lady Dalrymple being kept at home by a bad cold, was glad to make use of the relationship which had been so pressed on her; and she declined on her own account with great alacrity—‘She was engaged to spend the evening with an old schoolfellow.’ They were not much interested in anything relative to Anne; but still there were questions enough asked, to make it understood what this old schoolfellow was; and Elizabeth was disdainful, and Sir Walter severe.
在卡姆登广场知道她的朋友的存在之前，安妮曾多次拜访过她的朋友。最后，有必要谈谈她了。一天早上，沃尔特爵士、伊丽莎白和克莱夫人从劳拉宫回来，达尔林普尔夫人突然邀请她在当晚共度美好时光，而安妮已经订婚了，当晚要在西门大厦度过。她对这个借口并不感到抱歉。她确信，他们只是被问到了，因为达尔林普尔夫人因重感冒而待在家里，她很高兴利用一直压在她身上的关系;她以自己的名义欣然拒绝了——“她约好要和一位老同学共度良宵。”但仍然有足够多的问题被问到，以使其了解这位老同学的身份。伊丽莎白态度轻蔑，沃尔特爵士态度严厉。

‘Westgate Buildings!’ said he, ‘and who is Miss Anne Elliot to be visiting in Westgate Buildings? A Mrs Smith. A widow Mrs Smith; and who was her husband? One of five thousand Mr Smiths whose names are to be met with everywhere. And what is her attraction? That she is old and sickly. Upon my word, Miss Anne Elliot, you have the most extraordinary taste! Everything that revolts other people, low company, paltry rooms, foul air, disgusting associations are inviting to you. But surely you may put off this old lady till to-morrow: she is not so near her end, I presume, but that she may hope to see another day. What is her age? Forty?’
“西门大厦！”他说，“安妮·埃利奥特小姐要去西门大厦拜访谁？史密斯夫人。寡妇史密斯夫人；她的丈夫是谁？五千名史密斯先生之一，他们的名字随处可见。而她的魅力又在哪里呢？说她又老又多病。老实说，安妮·埃利奥特小姐，你的品味是最非凡的！一切令他人反感的事物，卑鄙的同伴，简陋的房间，污浊的空气，令人厌恶的联想都在吸引着你。不过，你当然可以把这位老太太推迟到明天：我想她还没有那么接近生命的终点，但她可能希望能再看到一天。她的年龄是多少？四十？'

‘No, sir, she is not one-and-thirty; but I do not think I can put off my engagement, because it is the only evening for some time which will at once suit her and myself. She goes into the warm bath to-morrow, and for the rest of the week, you know, we are engaged.’
“不，先生，她不是一又三十；她不是一岁三十分；”但我认为我不能推迟订婚，因为这是一段时间内唯一一个同时适合她和我自己的夜晚。她明天要去洗热水澡，在这周剩下的时间里，你知道，我们订婚了。

‘But what does Lady Russell think of this acquaintance?’ asked Elizabeth.
“但是拉塞尔夫人对这位熟人有何看法？”伊丽莎白问。

‘She sees nothing to blame in it,’ replied Anne; ‘on the contrary, she approves it, and has generally taken me when I have called on Mrs Smith.
“她认为这没有什么可责备的，”安妮回答道。 “相反，她很赞同，当我拜访史密斯夫人时，她通常都会带我去。”

‘Westgate Buildings must have been rather surprised by the appearance of a carriage drawn up near its pavement,’ observed Sir Walter. ‘Sir Henry Russell’s widow, indeed, has no honours to distinguish her arms, but still it is a handsome equipage, and no doubt is well known to convey a Miss Elliot. A widow Mrs Smith lodging in Westgate Buildings! A poor widow barely able to live, between thirty and forty; a mere Mrs Smith, an every-day Mrs Smith, of all people and all names in the world, to be the chosen friend of Miss Anne Elliot, and to be preferred by her to her own family connections among the nobility of England and Ireland! Mrs Smith! Such a name!’
“西门大厦一定对一辆马车停在人行道附近感到相当惊讶，”沃尔特爵士评论道。 “确实，亨利·拉塞尔爵士的遗孀没有荣幸地展示她的纹章，但它仍然是一辆英俊的马车，毫无疑问，她以埃利奥特小姐的身份而闻名。寡妇史密斯夫人住在西门大厦！一个贫穷的寡妇，勉强维持生计，三十岁到四十岁；一个普通的史密斯夫人，一个平凡的史密斯夫人，在世界上所有人和所有名字中，成为安妮·埃利奥特小姐选择的朋友，并被她优先选择在英格兰和爱尔兰的贵族中，而不是她自己的家庭关系！史密斯夫人！这样的名字！

Mrs Clay, who had been present while all this passed, now thought it advisable to leave the room, and Anne could have said much, and did long to say a little in defence of her friend’s not very dissimilar claims to theirs, but her sense of personal respect to her father prevented her. She made no reply. She left it to himself to recollect, that Mrs Smith was not the only widow in Bath between thirty and forty, with little to live on, and no surname of dignity.
克莱夫人在这一切发生的过程中一直在场，现在认为最好离开房间，安妮本可以说很多话，而且很早就说了一点，以捍卫她朋友的主张与他们的主张并没有太大不同，但她的感觉对她父亲的个人尊重阻止了她。她没有回答。她让自己回忆一下，史密斯夫人并不是巴斯唯一一个三十岁到四十岁之间、衣食无着、没有尊严的寡妇。

Anne kept her appointment; the others kept theirs, and of course she heard the next morning that they had had a delightful evening. She had been the only one of the set absent, for Sir Walter and Elizabeth had not only been quite at her ladyship’s service themselves, but had actually been happy to be employed by her in collecting others, and had been at the trouble of inviting both Lady Russell and Mr Elliot; and Mr Elliot had made a point of leaving Colonel Wallis early, and Lady Russell had fresh arranged all her evening engagements in order to wait on her. Anne had the whole history of all that such an evening could supply from Lady Russell. To her, its greatest interest must be, in having been very much talked of between her friend and Mr Elliot; in having been wished for, regretted, and at the same time honoured for staying away in such a cause. Her kind, compassionate visits to this old schoolfellow, sick and reduced, seemed to have quite delighted Mr Elliot. He thought her a most extraordinary young woman; in her temper, manners, mind, a model of female excellence. He could meet even Lady Russell in a discussion of her merits; and Anne could not be given to understand so much by her friend, could not know herself to be so highly rated by a sensible man, without many of those agreeable sensations which her friend meant to create.
安妮遵守了约定。其他人保留了他们的，当然，第二天早上她听说他们度过了一个愉快的夜晚。她是这群人中唯一缺席的人，因为沃尔特爵士和伊丽莎白不仅亲自为夫人服务，而且实际上很高兴受她雇用来收集其他人，并且费了很大力气才邀请了两位夫人。拉塞尔夫人和埃利奥特先生；埃利奥特先生特意提前离开了沃利斯上校，而拉塞尔夫人则重新安排了晚上的所有事务，以便伺候她。安妮从拉塞尔夫人那里了解了这样一个夜晚所能提供的全部历史。对她来说，它最大的兴趣肯定是她的朋友和埃利奥特先生之间经常谈论它；因远离这样的事业而受到人们的希望、遗憾，同时也感到荣幸。她对这位患病且衰弱的老同学的亲切而富有同情心的探访似乎让埃利奥特先生感到非常高兴。他认为她是一位最非凡的年轻女子；她的脾气、举止、思想都是卓越女性的典范。他甚至可以在讨论拉塞尔夫人的优点时与她会面。如果没有她的朋友想要创造的许多令人愉快的感觉，安妮不可能从她的朋友那里得到这么多的理解，也不可能知道自己被一个明智的男人如此高度评价。

Lady Russell was now perfectly decided in her opinion of Mr Elliot. She was as much convinced of his meaning to gain Anne in time as of his deserving her, and was beginning to calculate the number of weeks which would free him from all the remaining restraints of widowhood, and leave him at liberty to exert his most open powers of pleasing. She would not speak to Anne with half the certainty she felt on the subject, she would venture on little more than hints of what might be hereafter, of a possible attachment on his side, of the desirableness of the alliance, supposing such attachment to be real and returned. Anne heard her, and made no violent exclamations; she only smiled, blushed, and gently shook her head.
拉塞尔夫人现在对埃利奥特先生的看法已经完全确定了。她深信他及时得到安妮的意义，就像他值得她一样，并开始计算几周后，他才能摆脱鳏夫制的所有剩余限制，让他可以自由地发挥他最开放的能力。取悦他人的力量。她不会带着她在这个问题上所感受到的一半确定性与安妮交谈，她只会大胆地暗示未来可能发生的事情，他这边可能有的依恋，联盟的可取性，假设这种依恋是真实并返回。安妮听到了她的话，并没有发出剧烈的惊呼。她只是笑了笑，脸红了，轻轻地摇了摇头。

‘I am no match-maker, as you well know,’ said Lady Russell, ‘being much too well aware of the uncertainty of all human events and calculations. I only mean that if Mr Elliot should some time hence pay his addresses to you, and if you should be disposed to accept him, I think there would be every possibility of your being happy together. A most suitable connection everybody must consider it, but I think it might be a very happy one.’
“正如你所知，我不是媒人，”拉塞尔夫人说，“我太清楚所有人类事件和计算的不确定性。我只是说，如果埃利奥特先生过一段时间向您致辞，并且您愿意接受他，我想你们完全有可能幸福地在一起。这是每个人都必须考虑的最合适的联系，但我认为这可能是一种非常幸福的联系。

‘Mr Elliot is an exceedingly agreeable man, and in many respects I think highly of him,’ said Anne; ‘but we should not suit.’
“埃利奥特先生是一位非常和蔼可亲的人，在很多方面我都对他评价很高。”安妮说。 “但我们不应该适应。”

Lady Russell let this pass, and only said in rejoinder, ‘I own that to be able to regard you as the future mistress of Kellynch, the future Lady Elliot, to look forward and see you occupying your dear mother’s place, succeeding to all her rights, and all her popularity, as well as to all her virtues, would be the highest possible gratification to me. You are your mother’s self in countenance and disposition; and if I might be allowed to fancy you such as she was, in situation and name, and home, presiding and blessing in the same spot, and only superior to her in being more highly valued! My dearest Anne, it would give me more delight than is often felt at my time of life!’
拉塞尔夫人对此不予理睬，只反驳道：“我承认，能够把你视为凯林奇未来的情妇，未来的埃利奥特夫人，期待着看到你占据你亲爱的母亲的位置，继承她的一切。”权利、她所有的声望以及她所有的美德，将是我最大的满足。你的面容和性格都像你母亲一样；如果我可以像她一样喜欢你，在地位和名字上，在家里，在同一个地方主持和祝福，而且只是比她更受高度重视！我最亲爱的安妮，这会给我带来比我一生中经常感受到的更多的快乐！

Anne was obliged to turn away, to rise, to walk to a distant table, and, leaning there in pretended employment, try to subdue the feelings this picture excited. For a few moments her imagination and her heart were bewitched. The idea of becoming what her mother had been; of having the precious name of ‘Lady Elliot’ first revived in herself; of being restored to Kellynch, calling it her home again, her home for ever, was a charm which she could not immediately resist. Lady Russell said not another word, willing to leave the matter to its own operation; and believing that, could Mr Elliot at that moment with propriety have spoken for himself!—she believed, in short, what Anne did not believe. The same image of Mr Elliot speaking for himself brought Anne to composure again. The charm of Kellynch and of ‘Lady Elliot’ all faded away. She never could accept him. And it was not only that her feelings were still adverse to any man save one; her judgement, on a serious consideration of the possibilities of such a case was against Mr Elliot.
安妮不得不转身，站起来，走到远处的一张桌子旁，假装正在工作，试图压低这张照片所激动的情绪。有那么一会儿，她的想象力和心灵都着迷了。想要成为她母亲那样的人； “埃利奥特夫人”这个珍贵的名字首先在她身上复活了；回到凯林奇，再次称其为她的家，她永远的家，这是一种她无法立即抗拒的魅力。拉塞尔夫人没有再说什么，愿意让这件事自行处理。她相信，埃利奥特先生当时是否可以适当地为自己说话！——简而言之，她相信安妮不相信的东西。艾略特先生为自己说话的同样画面让安妮再次平静下来。凯林奇和“埃利奥特夫人”的魅力都消失了。她始终无法接受他。不仅是她的感情仍然对除了一个人之外的任何男人都不利；在认真考虑此类案件的可能性后，她的判断对埃利奥特先生不利。

Though they had now been acquainted a month, she could not be satisfied that she really knew his character. That he was a sensible man, an agreeable man, that he talked well, professed good opinions, seemed to judge properly and as a man of principle, this was all clear enough. He certainly knew what was right, nor could she fix on any one article of moral duty evidently transgressed; but yet she would have been afraid to answer for his conduct. She distrusted the past, if not the present. The names which occasionally dropt of former associates, the allusions to former practices and pursuits, suggested suspicions not favourable of what he had been. She saw that there had been bad habits; that Sunday travelling had been a common thing; that there had been a period of his life (and probably not a short one) when he had been, at least, careless in all serious matters; and, though he might now think very differently, who could answer for the true sentiments of a clever, cautious man, grown old enough to appreciate a fair character? How could it ever be ascertained that his mind was truly cleansed?
虽然他们已经认识一个月了，但她并不能确信自己真的了解他的性格。他是一个通情达理的人，一个和蔼可亲的人，他谈吐得体，提出了很好的意见，似乎判断得当，作为一个有原则的人，这一切都足够清楚了。他当然知道什么是正确的，她也不能指出任何一条明显违反了道德义务的条款；但她却不敢为他的行为负责。她不相信过去，甚至不相信现在。偶尔提及的前同事的名字、对以前的做法和追求的暗示，都表明人们对他的过去并不有利。她发现自己有一些坏习惯；那个周日旅行是一件很平常的事。他一生中曾有一段时间（可能不是很短），至少在所有严肃的事情上都粗心大意；而且，尽管他现在的想法可能大不相同，但谁能回答一个聪明、谨慎、年纪大到能够欣赏公平品格的人的真实情感呢？怎么能确定他的心真的净化了呢？

Mr Elliot was rational, discreet, polished, but he was not open. There was never any burst of feeling, any warmth of indignation or delight, at the evil or good of others. This, to Anne, was a decided imperfection. Her early impressions were incurable. She prized the frank, the open-hearted, the eager character beyond all others. Warmth and enthusiasm did captivate her still. She felt that she could so much more depend upon the sincerity of those who sometimes looked or said a careless or a hasty thing, than of those whose presence of mind never varied, whose tongue never slipped.
艾略特先生理性、谨慎、优雅，但他并不开放。对于别人的恶或善，从来没有任何感情的爆发，任何愤怒或喜悦的温暖。对于安妮来说，这绝对是一个缺陷。她的早期印象是无法治愈的。她比其他人更看重坦率、心胸开阔、热切的性格。温暖和热情仍然吸引着她。她觉得，比起那些神情从不改变、舌头从不失言的人，她更能依赖那些有时看上去或说话粗心或草率的人的真诚。

Mr Elliot was too generally agreeable. Various as were the tempers in her father’s house, he pleased them all. He endured too well, stood too well with every body. He had spoken to her with some degree of openness of Mrs Clay; had appeared completely to see what Mrs Clay was about, and to hold her in contempt; and yet Mrs Clay found him as agreeable as any body.
埃利奥特先生总体上太随和了。尽管她父亲家里的脾气各异，但他都令他们高兴。他忍耐得很好，与每个人相处得都很好。他对她说话时带着某种程度的克莱夫人的坦率。看来他完全明白了克莱夫人的意思，并且蔑视她。然而克莱夫人发现他和其他人一样和蔼可亲。

Lady Russell saw either less or more than her young friend, for she saw nothing to excite distrust. She could not imagine a man more exactly what he ought to be than Mr Elliot; nor did she ever enjoy a sweeter feeling than the hope of seeing him receive the hand of her beloved Anne in Kellynch church, in the course of the following autumn.
拉塞尔夫人比她年轻的朋友看到​​的东西要么少要么多，因为她没有看到任何会引起不信任的东西。她无法比埃利奥特先生更准确地想象出一个男人应该是什么样子。她最甜蜜的感觉莫过于希望在接下来的秋天看到他在凯林奇教堂接受她心爱的安妮的手。

Chapter 18
第18章

It was the beginning of February; and Anne, having been a month in Bath, was growing very eager for news from Uppercross and Lyme. She wanted to hear much more than Mary had communicated. It was three weeks since she had heard at all. She only knew that Henrietta was at home again; and that Louisa, though considered to be recovering fast, was still in Lyme; and she was thinking of them all very intently one evening, when a thicker letter than usual from Mary was delivered to her; and, to quicken the pleasure and surprise, with Admiral and Mrs Croft’s compliments.
那是二月初。安妮在巴斯待了一个月，她越来越渴望从厄珀克罗斯和莱姆传来消息。她想听到的远比玛丽所传达的要多。她已经三个星期没有听到任何消息了。她只知道亨丽埃塔又回到家了；路易莎虽然被认为恢复得很快，但仍在莱姆。一天晚上，她正全神贯注地想着他们，这时玛丽收到了一封比平时更厚的信。并且，为了加快喜悦和惊喜，海军上将和克罗夫特夫人的致意。

The Crofts must be in Bath! A circumstance to interest her. They were people whom her heart turned to very naturally.
克罗夫特一家肯定在巴斯！一个让她感兴趣的情况。他们是她的心很自然地转向的人。

‘What is this?’ cried Sir Walter. ‘The Crofts have arrived in Bath? The Crofts who rent Kellynch? What have they brought you?’
“这是什么？”沃尔特爵士喊道。 “克罗夫特一家已经抵达巴斯了吗？租用凯林奇的克罗夫特家族？他们给你带来了什么？

‘A letter from Uppercross Cottage, Sir.’
“一封来自厄珀克罗斯小屋的信，先生。”

‘Oh! those letters are convenient passports. They secure an introduction. I should have visited Admiral Croft, however, at any rate. I know what is due to my tenant.’
'哦！这些信件是方便的护照。他们确保了介绍。不过，无论如何，我应该去拜访克罗夫特海军上将。我知道我的房客应得的是什么。

Anne could listen no longer; she could not even have told how the poor Admiral’s complexion escaped; her letter engrossed her. It had been begun several days back.
安妮再也听不下去了。她甚至不知道可怜的海军上将的脸色是如何消失的。她的信让她全神贯注。几天前就开始了。

‘February 1st.
‘2月1日。

‘My dear Anne,—I make no apology for my silence, because I know how little people think of letters in such a place as Bath. You must be a great deal too happy to care for Uppercross, which, as you well know, affords little to write about. We have had a very dull Christmas; Mr and Mrs Musgrove have not had one dinner party all the holidays. I do not reckon the Hayters as anybody. The holidays, however, are over at last: I believe no children ever had such long ones. I am sure I had not. The house was cleared yesterday, except of the little Harvilles; but you will be surprised to hear they have never gone home. Mrs Harville must be an odd mother to part with them so long. I do not understand it. They are not at all nice children, in my opinion; but Mrs Musgrove seems to like them quite as well, if not better, than her grandchildren. What dreadful weather we have had! It may not be felt in Bath, with your nice pavements; but in the country it is of some consequence. I have not had a creature call on me since the second week in January, except Charles Hayter, who had been calling much oftener than was welcome. Between ourselves, I think it a great pity Henrietta did not remain at Lyme as long as Louisa; it would have kept her a little out of his way. The carriage is gone to-day, to bring Louisa and the Harvilles to-morrow. We are not asked to dine with them, however, till the day after, Mrs Musgrove is so afraid of her being fatigued by the journey, which is not very likely, considering the care that will be taken of her; and it would be much more convenient to me to dine there to-morrow. I am glad you find Mr Elliot so agreeable, and wish I could be acquainted with him too; but I have my usual luck: I am always out of the way when any thing desirable is going on; always the last of my family to be noticed. What an immense time Mrs Clay has been staying with Elizabeth! Does she never mean to go away? But perhaps if she were to leave the room vacant, we might not be invited. Let me know what you think of this. I do not expect my children to be asked, you know. I can leave them at the Great House very well, for a month or six weeks. I have this moment heard that the Crofts are going to Bath almost immediately; they think the Admiral gouty. Charles heard it quite by chance; they have not had the civility to give me any notice, or of offering to take anything. I do not think they improve at all as neighbours. We see nothing of them, and this is really an instance of gross inattention. Charles joins me in love, and everything proper. Yours affectionately,
“我亲爱的安妮，我不会为我的沉默道歉，因为我知道在巴斯这样的地方人们对信件的看法是多么的少。你一定太高兴了，无暇顾及厄普克罗斯，正如你所知，那里没什么可写的。我们度过了一个非常平淡的圣诞节；穆斯格罗夫先生和夫人整个假期都没有举办过一次晚宴。我不认为海特夫妇是任何人。然而，假期终于结束了：我相信没有哪个孩子有过这么长的假期。我确信我没有。昨天，房子被清理干净了，除了小哈维尔一家。但你会惊讶地发现他们从未回家过。哈维尔太太和他们分开这么久，一定是个奇怪的母亲。我不明白。在我看来，他们根本不是好孩子。但穆斯格罗夫夫人似乎也像她的孙子们一样喜欢他们，甚至更喜欢他们。我们经历了多么可怕的天气啊！在巴斯，你可能感受不到这种感觉，因为这里的人行道很漂亮。但在国内，这具有一定的影响力。自一月第二周以来，我就没有接到过任何生物的来电，除了查尔斯·海特（Charles Hayter），他来电的次数比我受欢迎的次数要多得多。我个人认为，亨利埃塔没有像路易莎那样在莱姆待得那么久，真是一件遗憾的事。这样她就不会妨碍他了。马车今天走了，明天接路易莎和哈维尔一家。我们没有被要求和他们一起吃饭，然而，直到第二天，默斯格罗夫夫人非常担心她会因为旅途而感到疲劳，考虑到她会得到照顾，这不太可能；明天在那里吃饭对我来说会方便得多。 我很高兴你发现埃利奥特先生如此和蔼可亲，并希望我也能认识他；但我有我一贯的运气：当任何想要的事情发生时，我总是不碍事；我的家人总是最后一个被注意到的。克莱夫人和伊丽莎白在一起度过了多么美好的时光啊！她从来没有想过要走吗？但如果她让房间空着，我们可能就不会被邀请了。让我知道你对此有何看法。你知道，我不希望我的孩子们被问到。我可以把它们留在大宅里，一个月或六个星期。此刻我听说克罗夫特一家几乎立刻就要去巴斯。他们认为海军上将得了痛风。查尔斯是偶然听到的。他们没有礼貌地通知我，也没有提出要拿走任何东西。我认为他们作为邻居根本没有进步。我们什么也没看到，这确实是严重疏忽的一个例子。查尔斯与我相爱，一切顺利。 深情的你，

‘Mary M—-.
‘玛丽·M——。

‘I am sorry to say that I am very far from well; and Jemima has just told me that the butcher says there is a bad sore-throat very much about. I dare say I shall catch it; and my sore-throats, you know, are always worse than anybody’s.’
“我很遗憾地说，我的病还很严重；杰米玛刚刚告诉我，屠夫说有严重的喉咙痛。我敢说我会抓住它；你知道，我的喉咙痛总是比任何人都严重。

So ended the first part, which had been afterwards put into an envelope, containing nearly as much more.
第一部分就这样结束了，后来被装进一个信封，里面装着几乎同样多的东西。

‘I kept my letter open, that I might send you word how Louisa bore her journey, and now I am extremely glad I did, having a great deal to add. In the first place, I had a note from Mrs Croft yesterday, offering to convey anything to you; a very kind, friendly note indeed, addressed to me, just as it ought; I shall therefore be able to make my letter as long as I like. The Admiral does not seem very ill, and I sincerely hope Bath will do him all the good he wants. I shall be truly glad to have them back again. Our neighbourhood cannot spare such a pleasant family. But now for Louisa. I have something to communicate that will astonish you not a little. She and the Harvilles came on Tuesday very safely, and in the evening we went to ask her how she did, when we were rather surprised not to find Captain Benwick of the party, for he had been invited as well as the Harvilles; and what do you think was the reason? Neither more nor less than his being in love with Louisa, and not choosing to venture to Uppercross till he had had an answer from Mr Musgrove; for it was all settled between him and her before she came away, and he had written to her father by Captain Harville. True, upon my honour! Are not you astonished? I shall be surprised at least if you ever received a hint of it, for I never did. Mrs Musgrove protests solemnly that she knew nothing of the matter. We are all very well pleased, however, for though it is not equal to her marrying Captain Wentworth, it is infinitely better than Charles Hayter; and Mr Musgrove has written his consent, and Captain Benwick is expected to-day. Mrs Harville says her husband feels a good deal on his poor sister’s account; but, however, Louisa is a great favourite with both. Indeed, Mrs Harville and I quite agree that we love her the better for having nursed her. Charles wonders what Captain Wentworth will say; but if you remember, I never thought him attached to Louisa; I never could see anything of it. And this is the end, you see, of Captain Benwick’s being supposed to be an admirer of yours. How Charles could take such a thing into his head was always incomprehensible to me. I hope he will be more agreeable now. Certainly not a great match for Louisa Musgrove, but a million times better than marrying among the Hayters.’
“我一直打开我的信，以便我可以向您传达路易莎如何度过她的旅程，现在我非常高兴我做到了，有很多东西要补充。首先，昨天我收到了克罗夫特夫人的一张便条，愿意向您传达任何信息；这确实是一封非常友善、友好的信，是写给我的，正如它应该写的那样；因此，我可以随心所欲地写信。海军上将看起来病得并不严重，我真诚地希望巴斯能为他做他想做的一切好事。我真的很高兴让他们再次回来。我们的邻居不能放过这样一个和睦的家庭。但现在对于路易莎来说。我有件事要告诉你，这会让你大吃一惊。她和哈维尔一家周二非常安全地来了，晚上我们去问她怎么样，当我们很惊讶没有找到聚会的本威克船长时，因为他和哈维尔一家都被邀请了。你认为原因是什么？他爱上了路易莎，在得到穆斯格罗夫先生的答复之前，他没有选择去厄珀克罗斯冒险。因为在她走之前，他和她之间的一切就已经解决了，而且他还通过哈维尔船长给她父亲写了信。确实如此，以我的名誉担保！你不感到惊讶吗？如果你收到过任何暗示，我至少会感到惊讶，因为我从来没有收到过。穆斯格罗夫夫人郑重抗议说她对此事一无所知。不过，我们都很高兴，因为虽然不等于她嫁给了温特沃斯上尉，但比查尔斯·海特好得多。默斯格罗夫先生已经写下了同意书，本威克船长预计今天就到。哈维尔夫人说，她的丈夫为他可怜的妹妹感到很高兴。但无论如何，路易莎都是两人的最爱。 事实上，哈维尔夫人和我都同意，我们因为照顾了她而更加爱她。查尔斯想知道温特沃斯船长会说什么；但如果你还记得的话，我从来不认为他对路易莎有感情。我从来都看不到它的任何东西。你看，这就是本威克船长被认为是你的崇拜者的结局。我一直无法理解查尔斯怎么能把这样的事情记在脑子里。我希望他现在会更加和蔼可亲。对于路易莎·穆斯格罗夫来说，这当然不是一场伟大的比赛，但比在海特家族结婚要好一百万倍。’

Mary need not have feared her sister’s being in any degree prepared for the news. She had never in her life been more astonished. Captain Benwick and Louisa Musgrove! It was almost too wonderful for belief, and it was with the greatest effort that she could remain in the room, preserve an air of calmness, and answer the common questions of the moment. Happily for her, they were not many. Sir Walter wanted to know whether the Crofts travelled with four horses, and whether they were likely to be situated in such a part of Bath as it might suit Miss Elliot and himself to visit in; but had little curiosity beyond.
玛丽不必担心她姐姐对这个消息有任何程度的准备。她一生中从未如此惊讶过。本威克船长和路易莎·穆斯格罗夫！这简直太美妙了，令人难以置信，她尽了最大的努力才留在房间里，保持平静的气氛，回答当下常见的问题。令她高兴的是，这些人并不多。沃尔特爵士想知道克罗夫特一家是否带着四匹马旅行，以及它们是否可能位于巴斯适合埃利奥特小姐和他本人参观的地方；但除此之外没有什么好奇心。

‘How is Mary?’ said Elizabeth; and without waiting for an answer, ‘And pray what brings the Crofts to Bath?’
“玛丽怎么样？”伊丽莎白问道。不等回答，“请问是什么原因让克罗夫特一家来到巴斯？”

‘They come on the Admiral’s account. He is thought to be gouty.’
“他们是奉海军上将的名义而来的。”人们认为他患有痛风。

‘Gout and decrepitude!’ said Sir Walter. ‘Poor old gentleman.’
“痛风和衰老！”沃尔特爵士说。 “可怜的老先生。”

‘Have they any acquaintance here?’ asked Elizabeth.
“他们在这里有熟人吗？”伊丽莎白问。

‘I do not know; but I can hardly suppose that, at Admiral Croft’s time of life, and in his profession, he should not have many acquaintance in such a place as this.’
'我不知道;但我很难想象，在克罗夫特海军上将的一生中，在他的职业生涯中，他在这样的地方应该不会有很多熟人。

‘I suspect,’ said Sir Walter coolly, ‘that Admiral Croft will be best known in Bath as the renter of Kellynch Hall. Elizabeth, may we venture to present him and his wife in Laura Place?’
“我怀疑，”沃尔特爵士冷静地说，“克罗夫特海军上将在巴斯最出名的身份是凯林奇大厅的租客。伊丽莎白，我们可以冒昧地介绍他和他的妻子在劳拉广场吗？

‘Oh, no! I think not. Situated as we are with Lady Dalrymple, cousins, we ought to be very careful not to embarrass her with acquaintance she might not approve. If we were not related, it would not signify; but as cousins, she would feel scrupulous as to any proposal of ours. We had better leave the Crofts to find their own level. There are several odd-looking men walking about here, who, I am told, are sailors. The Crofts will associate with them.’
'不好了！我想不是。由于我们和达尔林普尔夫人在一起，表兄弟，我们应该非常小心，不要因为她可能不同意的熟人而让她难堪。如果我们没有血缘关系，那就没有意义；但作为表兄弟，她对我们的任何提议都会感到谨慎。我们最好离开克罗夫特一家去寻找自己的水平。这里有几个看上去很奇怪的人走来走去，据我所知，他们是水手。克罗夫特一家将与他们交往。

This was Sir Walter and Elizabeth’s share of interest in the letter; when Mrs Clay had paid her tribute of more decent attention, in an enquiry after Mrs Charles Musgrove, and her fine little boys, Anne was at liberty.
这正是沃尔特爵士和伊丽莎白对这封信感兴趣的地方。当克莱夫人对查尔斯·穆斯格罗夫夫人和她可爱的小男孩们进行询问时，安妮获得了自由。

In her own room, she tried to comprehend it. Well might Charles wonder how Captain Wentworth would feel! Perhaps he had quitted the field, had given Louisa up, had ceased to love, had found he did not love her. She could not endure the idea of treachery or levity, or anything akin to ill usage between him and his friend. She could not endure that such a friendship as theirs should be severed unfairly.
在自己的房间里，她试图理解这一点。查尔斯也许想知道温特沃斯船长会有何感受！也许他已经退出了这个领域，放弃了路易莎，不再爱她，发现他不爱她。她无法忍受他和他的朋友之间的背叛、轻浮或任何类似虐待的想法。她无法忍受他们这样的友谊被不公平地切断。

Captain Benwick and Louisa Musgrove! The high-spirited, joyous-talking Louisa Musgrove, and the dejected, thinking, feeling, reading, Captain Benwick, seemed each of them everything that would not suit the other. Their minds most dissimilar! Where could have been the attraction? The answer soon presented itself. It had been in situation. They had been thrown together several weeks; they had been living in the same small family party: since Henrietta’s coming away, they must have been depending almost entirely on each other, and Louisa, just recovering from illness, had been in an interesting state, and Captain Benwick was not inconsolable. That was a point which Anne had not been able to avoid suspecting before; and instead of drawing the same conclusion as Mary, from the present course of events, they served only to confirm the idea of his having felt some dawning of tenderness toward herself. She did not mean, however, to derive much more from it to gratify her vanity, than Mary might have allowed. She was persuaded that any tolerably pleasing young woman who had listened and seemed to feel for him would have received the same compliment. He had an affectionate heart. He must love somebody.
本威克船长和路易莎·穆斯格罗夫！意气风发、谈笑风生的路易莎·默斯格罗夫，以及沮丧、思考、感受、阅读的本威克船长，似乎彼此都不相配。他们的心思最不一样！吸引力在哪里？答案很快就出来了。它已经处于这种情况。他们已经聚在一起好几个星期了。他们一直生活在同一个小型家庭聚会中：自从亨利埃塔离开后，他们肯定几乎完全依赖彼此，而路易莎刚刚从病中恢复，一直处于一种有趣的状态，而本威克船长也没有感到伤心。这是安妮以前无法避免怀疑的一点。从目前的事态发展来看，他们并没有得出与玛丽相同的结论，而只是证实了他对自己产生了一些温柔的感觉。然而，她并不想从中获得更多的东西来满足她的虚荣心，这超出了玛丽可能允许的范围。她相信，任何一个还算讨人喜欢的年轻女子，只要听过他的话，并且似乎对他有同情心，都会得到同样的赞美。他有一颗深情的心。他一定爱一个人。

She saw no reason against their being happy. Louisa had fine naval fervour to begin with, and they would soon grow more alike. He would gain cheerfulness, and she would learn to be an enthusiast for Scott and Lord Byron; nay, that was probably learnt already; of course they had fallen in love over poetry. The idea of Louisa Musgrove turned into a person of literary taste, and sentimental reflection was amusing, but she had no doubt of its being so. The day at Lyme, the fall from the Cobb, might influence her health, her nerves, her courage, her character to the end of her life, as thoroughly as it appeared to have influenced her fate.
她看不出有什么理由反对他们幸福。路易莎一开始就对海军充满热情，他们很快就变得越来越相似。他会变得快乐，而她会学会成为斯科特和拜伦勋爵的热情；不，这可能是已经学过的；当然，他们是因为诗歌而坠入爱河的。路易莎·默斯格罗夫的想法变成了一个有文学品味的人，感伤的反思很有趣，但她对此毫不怀疑。莱姆的那一天，从科布河上摔下来，可能会影响她的健康、她的神经、她的勇气、她的性格，直到她生命的尽头，就像它似乎彻底影响了她的命运一样。

The conclusion of the whole was, that if the woman who had been sensible of Captain Wentworth’s merits could be allowed to prefer another man, there was nothing in the engagement to excite lasting wonder; and if Captain Wentworth lost no friend by it, certainly nothing to be regretted. No, it was not regret which made Anne’s heart beat in spite of herself, and brought the colour into her cheeks when she thought of Captain Wentworth unshackled and free. She had some feelings which she was ashamed to investigate. They were too much like joy, senseless joy!
整体的结论是，如果可以允许那个了解温特沃斯上尉优点的女人更喜欢另一个男人，那么订婚就没有什么可以激起持久的惊奇的；但如果她能够接受这个男人，那么她的订婚就不会引起持久的惊奇。如果温特沃斯船长没有因此失去朋友，那也没什么可遗憾的。不，当安妮想到温特沃斯船长没有被束缚、获得自由时，她的心不由自主地跳动，脸颊泛起红晕，这并不是悔恨。她有一些羞于探究的感觉。它们太像快乐了，毫无意义的快乐！

She longed to see the Crofts; but when the meeting took place, it was evident that no rumour of the news had yet reached them. The visit of ceremony was paid and returned; and Louisa Musgrove was mentioned, and Captain Benwick, too, without even half a smile.
她渴望见到克罗夫特一家。但当会议召开时，显然他们还没有听到这个消息的传闻。礼节性拜访及回访；提到路易莎·穆斯格罗夫，还有本威克船长，脸上都没有半点微笑。

The Crofts had placed themselves in lodgings in Gay Street, perfectly to Sir Walter’s satisfaction. He was not at all ashamed of the acquaintance, and did, in fact, think and talk a great deal more about the Admiral, than the Admiral ever thought or talked about him.
克罗夫特一家住在盖伊街的住处，这让沃尔特爵士非常满意。他一点也不为相识感到羞耻，事实上，他对海军上将的思考和谈论比他对他的思考和谈论要多得多。

The Crofts knew quite as many people in Bath as they wished for, and considered their intercourse with the Elliots as a mere matter of form, and not in the least likely to afford them any pleasure. They brought with them their country habit of being almost always together. He was ordered to walk to keep off the gout, and Mrs Croft seemed to go shares with him in everything, and to walk for her life to do him good. Anne saw them wherever she went. Lady Russell took her out in her carriage almost every morning, and she never failed to think of them, and never failed to see them. Knowing their feelings as she did, it was a most attractive picture of happiness to her. She always watched them as long as she could, delighted to fancy she understood what they might be talking of, as they walked along in happy independence, or equally delighted to see the Admiral’s hearty shake of the hand when he encountered an old friend, and observe their eagerness of conversation when occasionally forming into a little knot of the navy, Mrs Croft looking as intelligent and keen as any of the officers around her.
克罗夫特夫妇在巴斯认识的人与他们希望的一样多，他们认为与埃利奥特夫妇的交往只是形式问题，根本不可能给他们带来任何乐趣。他们带着几乎总是在一起的乡下习惯。他被命令步行以预防痛风，而克罗夫特夫人似乎与他分担一切，并为他的生命做好事而步行。安妮无论走到哪里都能看到他们。拉塞尔夫人几乎每天早上都带着她乘马车出去，她总是想起他们，也总是看到他们。像她一样了解他们的感受，这对她来说是一幅最有吸引力的幸福图景。当他们快乐地独立行走时，她总是尽可能长时间地看着他们，很高兴地想象自己明白他们可能在谈论什么，或者同样高兴地看到海军上将在遇到一位老朋友时衷心地握手。观察他们偶尔组成海军小团时的热切交谈，克罗夫特夫人看起来和她周围的任何军官一样聪明和敏锐。

Anne was too much engaged with Lady Russell to be often walking herself; but it so happened that one morning, about a week or ten days after the Croft’s arrival, it suited her best to leave her friend, or her friend’s carriage, in the lower part of the town, and return alone to Camden Place, and in walking up Milsom Street she had the good fortune to meet with the Admiral. He was standing by himself at a printshop window, with his hands behind him, in earnest contemplation of some print, and she not only might have passed him unseen, but was obliged to touch as well as address him before she could catch his notice. When he did perceive and acknowledge her, however, it was done with all his usual frankness and good humour. ‘Ha! is it you? Thank you, thank you. This is treating me like a friend. Here I am, you see, staring at a picture. I can never get by this shop without stopping. But what a thing here is, by way of a boat! Do look at it. Did you ever see the like? What queer fellows your fine painters must be, to think that anybody would venture their lives in such a shapeless old cockleshell as that? And yet here are two gentlemen stuck up in it mightily at their ease, and looking about them at the rocks and mountains, as if they were not to be upset the next moment, which they certainly must be. I wonder where that boat was built!’ (laughing heartily); ‘I would not venture over a horsepond in it. Well,’ (turning away), ‘now, where are you bound? Can I go anywhere for you, or with you? Can I be of any use?’
安妮与拉塞尔夫人的关系太密切，以至于她自己经常走路。但碰巧的是，有一天早上，克罗夫特夫妇到达后大约一周或十天，她最适合把她的朋友或她朋友的马车留在镇的下部，然后独自返回卡姆登广场，然后在沿着米尔瑟姆街行走，她有幸见到了海军上将。他独自站在一家印刷店的橱窗前，双手放在身后，认真地思考着一些印刷品，她不仅可能在看不见的情况下从他身边经过，而且不得不在注意到他之前触摸他并与他交谈。然而，当他真正察觉并承认她时，却表现出了他一贯的坦率和幽默。 '哈！是你吗？谢谢谢谢。这就像对待朋友一样对待我。你看，我在这里，盯着一张照片。我每次路过这家店都不能不停下来。但这里是多么奇妙的一件事，通过船！一定要看看它。你见过类似的吗？你们那些优秀的画家一定是多么奇怪的家伙，竟然会想到有人会在这样一个不成形的老海贝壳里冒险？然而，这里有两位先生非常轻松地站在其中，环顾四周的岩石和山脉，仿佛下一刻他们就不会感到不安，而他们肯定会感到不安。我想知道那条船是在哪里建造的！”（哈哈大笑）； “我不会冒险进入其中的马塘。好吧，”（转身），“现在，你要去哪里？我可以为你或和你一起去任何地方吗？我能有什么用处吗？

‘None, I thank you, unless you will give me the pleasure of your company the little way our road lies together. I am going home.’
“没有，我谢谢你，除非你愿意在我们的道路上有你的陪伴，让我感到高兴。”我正在回家。'

‘That I will, with all my heart, and farther, too. Yes, yes we will have a snug walk together, and I have something to tell you as we go along. There, take my arm; that’s right; I do not feel comfortable if I have not a woman there. Lord! what a boat it is!’ taking a last look at the picture, as they began to be in motion.
“我会全心全意，而且会更远。”是的，是的，我们会一起舒适地散步，边走边我有话要告诉你。在那里，握住我的手臂；这是正确的;如果我身边没有女人，我会感到不舒服。主！这是一艘多么好的船啊！”当他们开始移动时，最后看了一眼照片。

‘Did you say that you had something to tell me, sir?’
“您是说您有话要告诉我吗，先生？”

‘Yes, I have, presently. But here comes a friend, Captain Brigden; I shall only say, ‘How d’ye do?’ as we pass, however. I shall not stop. ‘How d’ye do?’ Brigden stares to see anybody with me but my wife. She, poor soul, is tied by the leg. She has a blister on one of her heels, as large as a three-shilling piece. If you look across the street, you will see Admiral Brand coming down and his brother. Shabby fellows, both of them! I am glad they are not on this side of the way. Sophy cannot bear them. They played me a pitiful trick once: got away with some of my best men. I will tell you the whole story another time. There comes old Sir Archibald Drew and his grandson. Look, he sees us; he kisses his hand to you; he takes you for my wife. Ah! the peace has come too soon for that younker. Poor old Sir Archibald! How do you like Bath, Miss Elliot? It suits us very well. We are always meeting with some old friend or other; the streets full of them every morning; sure to have plenty of chat; and then we get away from them all, and shut ourselves in our lodgings, and draw in our chairs, and are snug as if we were at Kellynch, ay, or as we used to be even at North Yarmouth and Deal. We do not like our lodgings here the worse, I can tell you, for putting us in mind of those we first had at North Yarmouth. The wind blows through one of the cupboards just in the same way.’
“是的，我现在有。”但这里来了一位朋友，布里格登船长；不过，当我们经过时，我只会说：“你们好吗？”我不会停下来。 “你好吗？”布里格登盯着我看，除了我的妻子之外，没有人和我在一起。她，可怜的灵魂，腿被绑住了。她的一只脚后跟上起了一个水泡，有三先令那么大。如果你看向街对面，你会看到布兰德上将和他的兄弟走下来。两个都是卑鄙的家伙！我很高兴他们不在路的这一边。苏菲无法忍受它们。有一次他们对我玩了一个可怜的把戏：带走了我最好的几个手下。我下次再告诉你整个故事。老阿奇博尔德·德鲁爵士和他的孙子来了。看，他看到了我们；他向你亲吻他的手；他把你当作我的妻子。啊!对于那个年轻人来说，和平来得太早了。可怜的老阿奇博尔德爵士！艾略特小姐，你喜欢巴斯吗？它非常适合我们。我们总是会遇到一些老朋友或其他人；每天早上街上都挤满了他们；一定要有足够的聊天时间；然后我们就离开他们所有人，把自己关在住所里，拉上椅子，舒服得好像我们在凯林奇，哎，或者就像我们以前在北雅茅斯和迪尔一样。我可以告诉你，我们不喜欢这里的住宿，因为它让我们想起了我们第一次在北雅茅斯住过的地方。风以同样的方式吹过其中一个橱柜。

When they were got a little farther, Anne ventured to press again for what he had to communicate. She hoped when clear of Milsom Street to have her curiosity gratified; but she was still obliged to wait, for the Admiral had made up his mind not to begin till they had gained the greater space and quiet of Belmont; and as she was not really Mrs Croft, she must let him have his own way. As soon as they were fairly ascending Belmont, he began—
当他们走得更远时，安妮冒险再次追问他要传达的信息。她希望离开米尔瑟姆街后她的好奇心能够得到满足。但她仍然不得不等待，因为海军上将已决定在他们获得贝尔蒙特更大的空间和安静之前不开始。由于她并不是真正的克罗夫特夫人，她必须让他为所欲为。当他们即将登上贝尔蒙特时，他开始——

‘Well, now you shall hear something that will surprise you. But first of all, you must tell me the name of the young lady I am going to talk about. That young lady, you know, that we have all been so concerned for. The Miss Musgrove, that all this has been happening to. Her Christian name: I always forget her Christian name.’
‘好吧，现在你会听到一些让你惊讶的事情。但首先，你必须告诉我我要谈论的那位年轻女士的名字。那位年轻女士，你知道，我们都非常关心。莫斯格罗夫小姐，这一切都发生在她身上。她的教名：我总是忘记她的教名。

Anne had been ashamed to appear to comprehend so soon as she really did; but now she could safely suggest the name of ‘Louisa.’
安妮为自己表现得这么快就明白了而感到羞愧。但现在她可以放心地提出“路易莎”这个名字了。

‘Ay, ay, Miss Louisa Musgrove, that is the name. I wish young ladies had not such a number of fine Christian names. I should never be out if they were all Sophys, or something of that sort. Well, this Miss Louisa, we all thought, you know, was to marry Frederick. He was courting her week after week. The only wonder was, what they could be waiting for, till the business at Lyme came; then, indeed, it was clear enough that they must wait till her brain was set to right. But even then there was something odd in their way of going on. Instead of staying at Lyme, he went off to Plymouth, and then he went off to see Edward. When we came back from Minehead he was gone down to Edward’s, and there he has been ever since. We have seen nothing of him since November. Even Sophy could not understand it. But now, the matter has take the strangest turn of all; for this young lady, the same Miss Musgrove, instead of being to marry Frederick, is to marry James Benwick. You know James Benwick.’
“是啊，是啊，路易莎·穆斯格罗夫小姐，就是这个名字。”我希望年轻的女士们不要有这么多漂亮的教名。如果他们都是苏菲之类的，我就永远不会出去。好吧，我们都认为这位路易莎小姐要嫁给弗雷德里克。他一周又一周地向她求爱。唯一令人惊奇的是，在莱姆的生意到来之前，他们还能等什么？然后，确实很明显，他们必须等到她的大脑恢复正常。但即便如此，他们的行为方式还是有些奇怪。他没有留在莱姆，而是前往普利茅斯，然后去看爱德华。当我们从迈恩黑德回来时，他去了爱德华家，从那以后他就一直呆在那里。自十一月以来我们就再也没有见过他。就连苏菲也无法理解。但现在，事情发生了最奇怪的转变。对于这位年轻的女士来说，同一个穆斯格罗夫小姐不是要嫁给弗雷德里克，而是要嫁给詹姆斯·本威克。你认识詹姆斯·本威克。”

‘A little. I am a little acquainted with Captain Benwick.’
'一点。我对本威克船长有点了解。”

‘Well, she is to marry him. Nay, most likely they are married already, for I do not know what they should wait for.’
‘好吧，她要嫁给他了。不，很可能他们已经结婚了，因为我不知道他们应该等待什么。

‘I thought Captain Benwick a very pleasing young man,’ said Anne, ‘and I understand that he bears an excellent character.’
“我认为本威克船长是一个非常讨人喜欢的年轻人，”安妮说，“而且我知道他性格非常优秀。”

‘Oh! yes, yes, there is not a word to be said against James Benwick. He is only a commander, it is true, made last summer, and these are bad times for getting on, but he has not another fault that I know of. An excellent, good-hearted fellow, I assure you; a very active, zealous officer too, which is more than you would think for, perhaps, for that soft sort of manner does not do him justice.’
'哦！是的，是的，没有任何一个词可以用来反对詹姆斯·本威克。确实，他只是一名指挥官，是去年夏天培养出来的，现在是一个不好的时期，但据我所知，他没有其他缺点。我向你保证，他是一个优秀、心地善良的人； “他也是一位非常活跃、热心的军官，这也许比你想象的要多，因为那种温和的态度对他来说并不公平。”

‘Indeed you are mistaken there, sir; I should never augur want of spirit from Captain Benwick’s manners. I thought them particularly pleasing, and I will answer for it, they would generally please.’
“确实，您错了，先生；我决不认为本威克船长的举止缺乏精神。我认为他们特别令人愉快，我会对此负责，他们通常会高兴。

‘Well, well, ladies are the best judges; but James Benwick is rather too piano for me; and though very likely it is all our partiality, Sophy and I cannot help thinking Frederick’s manners better than his. There is something about Frederick more to our taste.’
“好吧，好吧，女士们是最好的评判者；但詹姆斯·本威克（James Benwick）对我来说太像钢琴了；虽然这很可能是我们的偏见，但苏菲和我忍不住认为弗雷德里克的举止比他的好。弗雷德里克身上有一些东西更符合我们的口味。

Anne was caught. She had only meant to oppose the too common idea of spirit and gentleness being incompatible with each other, not at all to represent Captain Benwick’s manners as the very best that could possibly be; and, after a little hesitation, she was beginning to say, ‘I was not entering into any comparison of the two friends,’ but the Admiral interrupted her with—
安妮被抓了。她只是想反对那种过于普遍的观念，即精神与温柔是不相容的，根本不是为了将本威克船长的举止描述为最好的。犹豫了一下之后，她开始说：“我并不想对这两个朋友进行比较，”但是海军上将打断了她——

‘And the thing is certainly true. It is not a mere bit of gossip. We have it from Frederick himself. His sister had a letter from him yesterday, in which he tells us of it, and he had just had it in a letter from Harville, written upon the spot, from Uppercross. I fancy they are all at Uppercross.’
‘这件事确实是真的。这可不只是闲言碎语而已。我们从腓特烈本人那里得到的。昨天，他的妹妹收到了他的一封信，他在信中告诉了我们这件事，而他刚刚在哈维尔的一封来自厄珀克罗斯的信中，当场写下了这件事。我想他们都在厄普克罗斯。

This was an opportunity which Anne could not resist; she said, therefore, ‘I hope, Admiral, I hope there is nothing in the style of Captain Wentworth’s letter to make you and Mrs Croft particularly uneasy. It did seem, last autumn, as if there were an attachment between him and Louisa Musgrove; but I hope it may be understood to have worn out on each side equally, and without violence. I hope his letter does not breathe the spirit of an ill-used man.’
这是安妮无法抗拒的机会。因此，她说：“我希望，海军上将，我希望温特沃斯上尉的信中没有任何内容让您和克罗夫特夫人感到特别不安。去年秋天，他和路易莎·穆斯格罗夫之间似乎确实存在某种依恋。但我希望大家可以理解，双方的磨损程度是一样的，而且没有暴力。我希望他的信没有流露出受虐待之人的气息。

‘Not at all, not at all; there is not an oath or a murmur from beginning to end.’
‘一点也不，一点也不；从始至终，没有一句誓言，也没有一句怨言。

Anne looked down to hide her smile.
安妮低下头，掩饰自己的笑容。

‘No, no; Frederick is not a man to whine and complain; he has too much spirit for that. If the girl likes another man better, it is very fit she should have him.’
'不，不;腓特烈不是一个爱发牢骚、抱怨的人。他有太多的勇气去做这件事。如果女孩更喜欢另一个男人，那么她应该拥有他。

‘Certainly. But what I mean is, that I hope there is nothing in Captain Wentworth’s manner of writing to make you suppose he thinks himself ill-used by his friend, which might appear, you know, without its being absolutely said. I should be very sorry that such a friendship as has subsisted between him and Captain Benwick should be destroyed, or even wounded, by a circumstance of this sort.’
'当然。但我的意思是，我希望温特沃斯上尉的写作方式不会让你认为他认为自己被他的朋友虐待了，你知道，这可能会出现，但没有绝对地说出来。我感到非常遗憾的是，他和本威克船长之间的友谊因这种情况而被破坏，甚至受伤。

‘Yes, yes, I understand you. But there is nothing at all of that nature in the letter. He does not give the least fling at Benwick; does not so much as say, ‘I wonder at it, I have a reason of my own for wondering at it.’ No, you would not guess, from his way of writing, that he had ever thought of this Miss (what’s her name?) for himself. He very handsomely hopes they will be happy together; and there is nothing very unforgiving in that, I think.’
‘是的，是的，我理解你。但信中根本没有任何此类性质的内容。他对本威克没有丝毫的兴趣。与其说是说，“我对此感到奇怪，我对此感到奇怪，我有自己的理由。”不，从他的写作方式中，你不会猜到他曾经想到过这位小姐（她是什么？名字？）为自己。他非常希望他们能够幸福地在一起；我认为这并没有什么非常无情的地方。

Anne did not receive the perfect conviction which the Admiral meant to convey, but it would have been useless to press the enquiry farther. She therefore satisfied herself with common-place remarks or quiet attention, and the Admiral had it all his own way.
安妮没有得到海军上将想要表达的完全确信，但进一步追问是没有用的。因此，她满足于平庸的言论或安静的关注，而海军上将则完全按照他自己的方式行事。

‘Poor Frederick!’ said he at last. ‘Now he must begin all over again with somebody else. I think we must get him to Bath. Sophy must write, and beg him to come to Bath. Here are pretty girls enough, I am sure. It would be of no use to go to Uppercross again, for that other Miss Musgrove, I find, is bespoke by her cousin, the young parson. Do not you think, Miss Elliot, we had better try to get him to Bath?’
“可怜的弗雷德里克！”他最后说道。 “现在他必须和其他人重新开始。我想我们必须把他送到巴斯。苏菲必须写信求他来巴斯。我确信这里有足够漂亮的女孩。再去厄珀克罗斯是没有用的，因为我发现另一位默斯格罗夫小姐是由她的表弟、年轻的牧师定制的。艾略特小姐，你不认为我们最好设法把他带到巴斯吗？

Chapter 19
第19章

While Admiral Croft was taking this walk with Anne, and expressing his wish of getting Captain Wentworth to Bath, Captain Wentworth was already on his way thither. Before Mrs Croft had written, he was arrived, and the very next time Anne walked out, she saw him.
当克罗夫特上将与安妮一起散步并表达他希望温特沃斯船长前往巴斯时，温特沃斯船长已经在前往的路上了。克罗夫特夫人还没写信，他就到了，安妮下次走出去时，就看到了他。

Mr Elliot was attending his two cousins and Mrs Clay. They were in Milsom Street. It began to rain, not much, but enough to make shelter desirable for women, and quite enough to make it very desirable for Miss Elliot to have the advantage of being conveyed home in Lady Dalrymple’s carriage, which was seen waiting at a little distance; she, Anne, and Mrs Clay, therefore, turned into Molland’s, while Mr Elliot stepped to Lady Dalrymple, to request her assistance. He soon joined them again, successful, of course; Lady Dalrymple would be most happy to take them home, and would call for them in a few minutes.
艾略特先生正在照顾他的两个表兄弟和克莱夫人。他们在米尔瑟姆街。天开始下雨了，虽然不大，但足以为妇女们提供庇护所，也足以让埃利奥特小姐非常渴望能乘坐达尔林普尔夫人的马车回家，可以看到马车就在不远的地方等候着。因此，她、安妮和克莱夫人来到了莫兰家，而埃利奥特先生则走向达尔林普尔夫人，请求她的帮助。他很快又加入了他们，当然，很成功。达尔林普尔女士会非常乐意带他们回家，并会在几分钟后打电话来叫他们。

Her ladyship’s carriage was a barouche, and did not hold more than four with any comfort. Miss Carteret was with her mother; consequently it was not reasonable to expect accommodation for all the three Camden Place ladies. There could be no doubt as to Miss Elliot. Whoever suffered inconvenience, she must suffer none, but it occupied a little time to settle the point of civility between the other two. The rain was a mere trifle, and Anne was most sincere in preferring a walk with Mr Elliot. But the rain was also a mere trifle to Mrs Clay; she would hardly allow it even to drop at all, and her boots were so thick! much thicker than Miss Anne’s; and, in short, her civility rendered her quite as anxious to be left to walk with Mr Elliot as Anne could be, and it was discussed between them with a generosity so polite and so determined, that the others were obliged to settle it for them; Miss Elliot maintaining that Mrs Clay had a little cold already, and Mr Elliot deciding on appeal, that his cousin Anne’s boots were rather the thickest.
夫人的马车是一辆四轮马车，最多只能容纳四个人。卡特雷特小姐和她母亲在一起。因此，期望为卡姆登广场的三位女士提供住宿是不合理的。艾略特小姐是毫无疑问的。谁有不便，她就不得有任何不便，但解决另外两人之间的礼貌问题却花了一点时间。雨只是小事，安妮非常真诚地希望与埃利奥特先生一起散步。但对于克莱夫人来说，这场雨也只是小事一桩。她根本不允许它掉下来，而且她的靴子又那么厚！比安妮小姐的厚得多；简而言之，她的礼貌使她像安妮一样渴望留下来和埃利奥特先生一起散步，他们之间的讨论是如此慷慨和如此坚决，以至于其他人不得不为他们解决这个问题;埃利奥特小姐坚称克莱夫人已经有点感冒了，埃利奥特先生决定上诉，因为他表弟安妮的靴子相当厚。

It was fixed accordingly, that Mrs Clay should be of the party in the carriage; and they had just reached this point, when Anne, as she sat near the window, descried, most decidedly and distinctly, Captain Wentworth walking down the street.
据此决定，克莱夫人应该是车厢里的一员。他们刚刚走到这一步，安妮坐在靠窗的位置，极其清晰地描述了温特沃斯上尉在街上行走的情景。

Her start was perceptible only to herself; but she instantly felt that she was the greatest simpleton in the world, the most unaccountable and absurd! For a few minutes she saw nothing before her; it was all confusion. She was lost, and when she had scolded back her senses, she found the others still waiting for the carriage, and Mr Elliot (always obliging) just setting off for Union Street on a commission of Mrs Clay’s.
她的开始只有她自己能感觉到。但她瞬间就觉得自己是这个世界上最愚蠢、最不负责任、最荒唐的人！有几分钟的时间，她什么也没看见。一切都很混乱。她迷路了，当她回过神来时，她发现其他人还在等马车，而埃利奥特先生（总是乐于助人）刚刚按照克莱夫人的委托出发前往联合街。

She now felt a great inclination to go to the outer door; she wanted to see if it rained. Why was she to suspect herself of another motive? Captain Wentworth must be out of sight. She left her seat, she would go; one half of her should not be always so much wiser than the other half, or always suspecting the other of being worse than it was. She would see if it rained. She was sent back, however, in a moment by the entrance of Captain Wentworth himself, among a party of gentlemen and ladies, evidently his acquaintance, and whom he must have joined a little below Milsom Street. He was more obviously struck and confused by the sight of her than she had ever observed before; he looked quite red. For the first time, since their renewed acquaintance, she felt that she was betraying the least sensibility of the two. She had the advantage of him in the preparation of the last few moments. All the overpowering, blinding, bewildering, first effects of strong surprise were over with her. Still, however, she had enough to feel! It was agitation, pain, pleasure, a something between delight and misery.
她现在非常想往外门走去。她想看看是否下雨。她为什么要怀疑自己另有动机呢？温特沃斯船长肯定已经看不见了。她离开座位，她要走；她的一半不应该总是比另一半聪明得多，或者总是怀疑另一半比实际情况更糟糕。她会看看是否下雨。然而，不一会儿，温特沃斯上尉亲自进来，她就被送回来了，周围是一群绅士和女士，显然是他的熟人，他一定是在米尔瑟姆街下面不远的地方加入了他们。显然，他对她的景象比她以前所观察到的更加震惊和困惑。他看起来很红。自从他们重新认识以来，她第一次觉得自己背叛了两人中最不敏感的一个。在最后时刻的准备中，她占了他的优势。所有强烈的惊讶所带来的压倒性的、令人眼花缭乱的、令人困惑的第一反应都消失了。然而，她的感觉已经足够了！那是激动、痛苦、快乐，一种介于喜悦和痛苦之间的东西。

He spoke to her, and then turned away. The character of his manner was embarrassment. She could not have called it either cold or friendly, or anything so certainly as embarrassed.
他对她说了几句话，然后转身走开。他的态度很尴尬。她既不能说这是冷漠，也不能说是友好，也不能说是尴尬。

After a short interval, however, he came towards her, and spoke again. Mutual enquiries on common subjects passed: neither of them, probably, much the wiser for what they heard, and Anne continuing fully sensible of his being less at ease than formerly. They had by dint of being so very much together, got to speak to each other with a considerable portion of apparent indifference and calmness; but he could not do it now. Time had changed him, or Louisa had changed him. There was consciousness of some sort or other. He looked very well, not as if he had been suffering in health or spirits, and he talked of Uppercross, of the Musgroves, nay, even of Louisa, and had even a momentary look of his own arch significance as he named her; but yet it was Captain Wentworth not comfortable, not easy, not able to feign that he was.
然而过了一会儿，他又走到她面前，再次开口说道。关于共同话题的相互询问过去了：他们两个人可能都没有因为所听到的而变得更加明智，而安妮仍然完全意识到他比以前更不自在。由于他们如此亲密，彼此交谈时表现出明显的冷漠和平静。但他现在做不到。时间改变了他，或者说路易莎改变了他。有某种意识。他看起来很好，健康和精神都没有受到影响，他谈到了厄珀克罗斯、穆斯格罗夫一家，不，甚至谈到了路易莎，甚至在他给她起名字时，他的眼神中也闪现出了他自己的重要意义。但温特沃斯上尉却感到不自在，不轻松，无法假装自己很自在。

It did not surprise, but it grieved Anne to observe that Elizabeth would not know him. She saw that he saw Elizabeth, that Elizabeth saw him, that there was complete internal recognition on each side; she was convinced that he was ready to be acknowledged as an acquaintance, expecting it, and she had the pain of seeing her sister turn away with unalterable coldness.
安妮并不感到惊讶，但发现伊丽莎白不认识他，却感到悲伤。她看到他看到了伊丽莎白，伊丽莎白也看到了他，双方内心都完全认同；她确信他已经准备好被承认为熟人，期待着这一点，而她看到妹妹带着不可改变的冷漠转身离开，她感到痛苦。

Lady Dalrymple’s carriage, for which Miss Elliot was growing very impatient, now drew up; the servant came in to announce it. It was beginning to rain again, and altogether there was a delay, and a bustle, and a talking, which must make all the little crowd in the shop understand that Lady Dalrymple was calling to convey Miss Elliot. At last Miss Elliot and her friend, unattended but by the servant, (for there was no cousin returned), were walking off; and Captain Wentworth, watching them, turned again to Anne, and by manner, rather than words, was offering his services to her.
达尔林普尔夫人的马车现在已经停了下来，埃利奥特小姐对此越来越不耐烦了。仆人进来通报此事。天又开始下雨了，总有一些延误、忙碌和谈话，这一定会让店里的所有小群人都明白达尔林普尔夫人打电话来是为了转达埃利奥特小姐。最后，埃利奥特小姐和她的朋友在无人看管的情况下离开了，只有仆人（因为表弟没有回来）。温特沃斯船长看着他们，再次转向安妮，用态度而不是言语向她提供服务。

‘I am much obliged to you,’ was her answer, ‘but I am not going with them. The carriage would not accommodate so many. I walk: I prefer walking.’
“我非常感谢你，”她回答道，“但我不会和他们一起去。”马车容不下这么多人。我走路：我更喜欢走路。

‘But it rains.’
“但是下雨了。”

‘Oh! very little, Nothing that I regard.’
'哦！很少，我不重视。

After a moment’s pause he said: ‘Though I came only yesterday, I have equipped myself properly for Bath already, you see,’ (pointing to a new umbrella); ‘I wish you would make use of it, if you are determined to walk; though I think it would be more prudent to let me get you a chair.’
停顿了一会儿，他说：“虽然我昨天才来，但你看，我已经为巴斯做好了准备。”（指着一把新雨伞）； “如果你决心步行，我希望你能利用它；不过我认为让我给你拿张椅子会更谨慎。”

She was very much obliged to him, but declined it all, repeating her conviction, that the rain would come to nothing at present, and adding, ‘I am only waiting for Mr Elliot. He will be here in a moment, I am sure.’
她非常感激他，但全都拒绝了，重申她的信念，目前这场雨不会有什么结果，并补充道，“我只是在等埃利奥特先生。”我确信他一会儿就到了。”

She had hardly spoken the words when Mr Elliot walked in. Captain Wentworth recollected him perfectly. There was no difference between him and the man who had stood on the steps at Lyme, admiring Anne as she passed, except in the air and look and manner of the privileged relation and friend. He came in with eagerness, appeared to see and think only of her, apologised for his stay, was grieved to have kept her waiting, and anxious to get her away without further loss of time and before the rain increased; and in another moment they walked off together, her arm under his, a gentle and embarrassed glance, and a ‘Good morning to you!’ being all that she had time for, as she passed away.
她刚说完这句话，埃利奥特先生就走进来了。温特沃斯上尉对他的印象非常好。他和那个站在莱姆台阶上欣赏安妮经过的男人没有什么区别，除了神态、神情和举止上的特权亲戚和朋友。他急切地进来，似乎只想着她，对自己的逗留表示歉意，为让她久等而感到难过，并急于在雨势加大之前带她离开，以免再浪费时间。过了一会儿，他们一起走开了，她的胳膊搂着他的胳膊，温柔而尴尬地看了一眼，在她去世时，她只说了一声“早上好！”。

As soon as they were out of sight, the ladies of Captain Wentworth’s party began talking of them.
他们一离开视线，温特沃斯上尉一行人的女士们就开始谈论他们。

‘Mr Elliot does not dislike his cousin, I fancy?’
“我想埃利奥特先生并不讨厌他的表弟吧？”

‘Oh! no, that is clear enough. One can guess what will happen there. He is always with them; half lives in the family, I believe. What a very good-looking man!’
'哦！不，这已经足够清楚了。人们可以猜到那里会发生什么。他永远与他们同在；我相信，一半生活在家庭中。多么英俊的一个男人啊！

‘Yes, and Miss Atkinson, who dined with him once at the Wallises, says he is the most agreeable man she ever was in company with.’
“是的，阿特金森小姐曾在沃利斯家与他共进过一次餐，她说他是她交往过的最和蔼可亲的男人。”

‘She is pretty, I think; Anne Elliot; very pretty, when one comes to look at her. It is not the fashion to say so, but I confess I admire her more than her sister.’
“我觉得她很漂亮；安妮·埃利奥特；非常漂亮，当人们来看她时。虽然现在不流行这么说，但我承认我比她姐姐更钦佩她。

‘Oh! so do I.’
'哦！我也是。'

‘And so do I. No comparison. But the men are all wild after Miss Elliot. Anne is too delicate for them.’
“我也是。没有可比性。”但男人们都疯狂地追随埃利奥特小姐。安妮对他们来说太脆弱了。

Anne would have been particularly obliged to her cousin, if he would have walked by her side all the way to Camden Place, without saying a word. She had never found it so difficult to listen to him, though nothing could exceed his solicitude and care, and though his subjects were principally such as were wont to be always interesting: praise, warm, just, and discriminating, of Lady Russell, and insinuations highly rational against Mrs Clay. But just now she could think only of Captain Wentworth. She could not understand his present feelings, whether he were really suffering much from disappointment or not; and till that point were settled, she could not be quite herself.
如果她的表弟能够一言不发地陪着她一路走到卡姆登广场，安妮会特别感激他。她从来没有觉得听他讲话如此困难，尽管没有什么能超过他的关心和关心，尽管他的主题主要是那些通常总是有趣的：对拉塞尔夫人的热情、公正和歧视的赞美，以及对克莱夫人的影射非常理性。但此刻她只想到温特沃斯船长。她无法理解他现在的心情，是否真的受到了很大的失望；在这一点得到解决之前，她还不能完全做回自己。

She hoped to be wise and reasonable in time; but alas! alas! she must confess to herself that she was not wise yet.
她希望自己能够及时明智地理智行事。可惜！唉！她必须承认自己还不够聪明。

Another circumstance very essential for her to know, was how long he meant to be in Bath; he had not mentioned it, or she could not recollect it. He might be only passing through. But it was more probable that he should be come to stay. In that case, so liable as every body was to meet every body in Bath, Lady Russell would in all likelihood see him somewhere. Would she recollect him? How would it all be?
对她来说，另一个非常重要的情况是他打算在巴斯呆多久；他打算在巴斯待多久。他没有提过，或者说她记不起来了。他可能只是路过。但更有可能的是他应该留下来。在这种情况下，由于每个人都有可能在巴斯见到每个人，拉塞尔夫人很可能会在某个地方见到他。她会记得他吗？一切会怎样呢？

She had already been obliged to tell Lady Russell that Louisa Musgrove was to marry Captain Benwick. It had cost her something to encounter Lady Russell’s surprise; and now, if she were by any chance to be thrown into company with Captain Wentworth, her imperfect knowledge of the matter might add another shade of prejudice against him.
她已经不得不告诉拉塞尔夫人，路易莎·默斯格罗夫将嫁给本威克船长。面对拉塞尔夫人的惊讶，她付出了一些代价。现在，如果她有机会与温特沃斯船长在一起，她对此事的不完全了解可能会增加对他的另一种偏见。

The following morning Anne was out with her friend, and for the first hour, in an incessant and fearful sort of watch for him in vain; but at last, in returning down Pulteney Street, she distinguished him on the right hand pavement at such a distance as to have him in view the greater part of the street. There were many other men about him, many groups walking the same way, but there was no mistaking him. She looked instinctively at Lady Russell; but not from any mad idea of her recognising him so soon as she did herself. No, it was not to be supposed that Lady Russell would perceive him till they were nearly opposite. She looked at her however, from time to time, anxiously; and when the moment approached which must point him out, though not daring to look again (for her own countenance she knew was unfit to be seen), she was yet perfectly conscious of Lady Russell’s eyes being turned exactly in the direction for him— of her being, in short, intently observing him. She could thoroughly comprehend the sort of fascination he must possess over Lady Russell’s mind, the difficulty it must be for her to withdraw her eyes, the astonishment she must be feeling that eight or nine years should have passed over him, and in foreign climes and in active service too, without robbing him of one personal grace!
第二天早上，安妮和她的朋友出去了，头一个小时里，她不断地、充满恐惧地注视着他，但徒劳无功。但最后，当她沿着普尔特尼街返回时，她在右边的人行道上认出了他，距离很远，可以看到街道的大部分地方。他周围还有很多人，很多人都走在同一条路上，但没有人认错他。她本能地看着拉塞尔夫人。但这并不是因为她像她自己一样很快就认出了他。不，在他们几乎走到对面之前，拉塞尔夫人是不会察觉到他的。然而，她时不时地不安地看着她。当必须指出他的时刻临近时，尽管她不敢再看（因为她知道自己的脸不适合被人看见），但她仍然完全意识到拉塞尔夫人的眼睛正转向他的方向——简而言之，她正在专注地观察他。她完全能够理解他对拉塞尔夫人的迷恋，她一定很难收回目光，她一定会感到惊讶，八九年的时间已经过去了，在异国他乡，也在现役中服役，而不剥夺他个人的优雅！

At last, Lady Russell drew back her head. ‘Now, how would she speak of him?’
最后，拉塞尔夫人收回了头。 “现在，她会怎样谈论他呢？”

‘You will wonder,’ said she, ‘what has been fixing my eye so long; but I was looking after some window-curtains, which Lady Alicia and Mrs Frankland were telling me of last night. They described the drawing-room window-curtains of one of the houses on this side of the way, and this part of the street, as being the handsomest and best hung of any in Bath, but could not recollect the exact number, and I have been trying to find out which it could be; but I confess I can see no curtains hereabouts that answer their description.’
“你会想知道，”她说，“是什么让我的眼睛一直盯着我？但我正在照看一些窗帘，艾丽西亚夫人和弗兰克兰夫人昨晚告诉我的。他们描述说，路这边和街道的这一部分的一栋房子的客厅窗帘是巴斯所有房子中最漂亮、挂得最好的，但记不起确切的数字了，我一直在试图找出它可能是什么；但我承认我在这附近看不到符合他们描述的窗帘。

Anne sighed and blushed and smiled, in pity and disdain, either at her friend or herself. The part which provoked her most, was that in all this waste of foresight and caution, she should have lost the right moment for seeing whether he saw them.
安妮叹了口气，脸红了，微笑着，带着怜悯和轻蔑，要么是对她的朋友，要么是她自己。最让她恼怒的是，在这一切浪费远见和谨慎的行为中，她应该失去了看看他是否看到他们的最佳时机。

A day or two passed without producing anything. The theatre or the rooms, where he was most likely to be, were not fashionable enough for the Elliots, whose evening amusements were solely in the elegant stupidity of private parties, in which they were getting more and more engaged; and Anne, wearied of such a state of stagnation, sick of knowing nothing, and fancying herself stronger because her strength was not tried, was quite impatient for the concert evening. It was a concert for the benefit of a person patronised by Lady Dalrymple. Of course they must attend. It was really expected to be a good one, and Captain Wentworth was very fond of music. If she could only have a few minutes conversation with him again, she fancied she should be satisfied; and as to the power of addressing him, she felt all over courage if the opportunity occurred. Elizabeth had turned from him, Lady Russell overlooked him; her nerves were strengthened by these circumstances; she felt that she owed him attention.
一两天过去了，没有产生任何结果。他最有可能去的剧院或房间对埃利奥特夫妇来说还不够时尚，他们晚上的娱乐活动只是私人聚会的优雅愚蠢，他们越来越热衷于这种聚会。安妮厌倦了这种停滞不前的状态，厌倦了一无所知，并幻想自己因为没有尝试过力量而变得更强大，因此对音乐会之夜感到相当不耐烦。这是一场为达尔林普尔夫人赞助的人举办的音乐会。他们当然必须参加。这确实是一部好作品，而且温特沃斯船长非常喜欢音乐。如果能再和他聊上几分钟，她想她就心满意足了。至于向他说话的力量，如果有机会的话，她会感到充满勇气。伊丽莎白转身离开了他，拉塞尔夫人俯视着他。这些情况使她更加紧张。她觉得她欠他的关注。

She had once partly promised Mrs Smith to spend the evening with her; but in a short hurried call she excused herself and put it off, with the more decided promise of a longer visit on the morrow. Mrs Smith gave a most good-humoured acquiescence.
她曾经部分答应史密斯夫人要和她共度一晚；但她却答应了。但在简短而匆忙的电话中，她原谅了自己并推迟了行程，并更明确地承诺明天会进行更长时间的访问。史密斯夫人非常幽默地默许了。

‘By all means,’ said she; ‘only tell me all about it, when you do come. Who is your party?’
“无论如何，”她说。 ‘等你来的时候才告诉我这一切。谁是你的一方？

Anne named them all. Mrs Smith made no reply; but when she was leaving her said, and with an expression half serious, half arch, ‘Well, I heartily wish your concert may answer; and do not fail me to-morrow if you can come; for I begin to have a foreboding that I may not have many more visits from you.’
安妮给他们全部命名。史密斯夫人没有回答。但当她离开时，她带着半严肃、半拱门的表情说道：“好吧，我衷心希望你的音乐会能做出回应；”如果你明天能来的话，请不要让我失望；因为我开始有一种预感，你可能不会再来拜访我了。

Anne was startled and confused; but after standing in a moment’s suspense, was obliged, and not sorry to be obliged, to hurry away.
安妮感到震惊和困惑。但悬念片刻后，我不得不（而且并不后悔）赶紧离开。

Chapter 20
第20章

Sir Walter, his two daughters, and Mrs Clay, were the earliest of all their party at the rooms in the evening; and as Lady Dalrymple must be waited for, they took their station by one of the fires in the Octagon Room. But hardly were they so settled, when the door opened again, and Captain Wentworth walked in alone. Anne was the nearest to him, and making yet a little advance, she instantly spoke. He was preparing only to bow and pass on, but her gentle ‘How do you do?’ brought him out of the straight line to stand near her, and make enquiries in return, in spite of the formidable father and sister in the back ground. Their being in the back ground was a support to Anne; she knew nothing of their looks, and felt equal to everything which she believed right to be done.
晚上，沃尔特爵士、他的两个女儿和克莱夫人是他们中最早到达房间的人。由于必须等待达尔林普尔夫人，他们就在八角形房间的一处火旁就位。但他们刚安定下来，门又开了，温特沃斯上尉独自走了进来。安妮距离他最近，又向前走了一点，立刻开口说道。他正准备鞠躬并走开，但她温柔的“你好吗？”让他从直线上站到她身边，询问她的情况，尽管后面有令人敬畏的父亲和妹妹。他们在后台是对安妮的支持。她对他们的长相一无所知，对她认为应该做的一切都感到平等。

While they were speaking, a whispering between her father and Elizabeth caught her ear. She could not distinguish, but she must guess the subject; and on Captain Wentworth’s making a distant bow, she comprehended that her father had judged so well as to give him that simple acknowledgement of acquaintance, and she was just in time by a side glance to see a slight curtsey from Elizabeth herself. This, though late, and reluctant, and ungracious, was yet better than nothing, and her spirits improved.
当他们说话的时候，她听到父亲和伊丽莎白之间的窃窃私语。她无法区分，但她一定能猜出主题；当温特沃斯船长远远地鞠了一躬时，她明白她父亲的判断力很好，所以给了他这么简单的相识之礼，而她正好瞥了一眼，看到伊丽莎白本人也微微行了屈膝礼。这虽然迟了，而且不情愿，而且不礼貌，但总比没有好，她的精神有所好转。

After talking, however, of the weather, and Bath, and the concert, their conversation began to flag, and so little was said at last, that she was expecting him to go every moment, but he did not; he seemed in no hurry to leave her; and presently with renewed spirit, with a little smile, a little glow, he said—
然而，在谈论了天气、巴斯和音乐会之后，他们的谈话开始变得乏味，最后几乎没说什么，她每时每刻都盼着他走，但他没有；他似乎并不急于离开她。不久，他精神焕发，带着一点微笑，一点光彩，说道——

‘I have hardly seen you since our day at Lyme. I am afraid you must have suffered from the shock, and the more from its not overpowering you at the time.’
“自从我们在莱姆的那一天起，我就几乎没见过你了。恐怕你一定受到了震惊，更重要的是当时它还没有压倒你。

She assured him that she had not.
她向他保证她没有。

‘It was a frightful hour,’ said he, ‘a frightful day!’ and he passed his hand across his eyes, as if the remembrance were still too painful, but in a moment, half smiling again, added, ‘The day has produced some effects however; has had some consequences which must be considered as the very reverse of frightful. When you had the presence of mind to suggest that Benwick would be the properest person to fetch a surgeon, you could have little idea of his being eventually one of those most concerned in her recovery.’
“这是一个可怕的时刻，”他说，“可怕的一天！”他用手捂住眼睛，仿佛回忆仍然太痛苦，但过了一会儿，又半微笑着补充道，“这一天已经过去了。”但也产生了一些效果；已经产生了一些后果，必须将其视为与可怕相反的后果。当你冷静地建议本威克是找外科医生的最佳人选时，你可能根本不知道他最终会成为最关心她康复的人之一。

‘Certainly I could have none. But it appears—I should hope it would be a very happy match. There are on both sides good principles and good temper.’
“当然，我什么也得不到。”但看来——我希望这会是一场非常愉快的比赛。双方都有良好的原则和良好的脾气。

‘Yes,’ said he, looking not exactly forward; ‘but there, I think, ends the resemblance. With all my soul I wish them happy, and rejoice over every circumstance in favour of it. They have no difficulties to contend with at home, no opposition, no caprice, no delays. The Musgroves are behaving like themselves, most honourably and kindly, only anxious with true parental hearts to promote their daughter’s comfort. All this is much, very much in favour of their happiness; more than perhaps—‘
“是的，”他说，眼睛并没有向前看。 “但我认为，相似之处就到此为止了。”我全心全意地祝愿他们幸福，并为一切有利于他们的情况感到高兴。他们在家里没有任何困难需要应对，没有反对，没有任性，没有拖延。穆斯格罗夫一家的表现就像他们自己一样，非常正直和友善，只是以真正的父母之心渴望让女儿感到舒适。这一切都非常非常有利于他们的幸福。或许比——’

He stopped. A sudden recollection seemed to occur, and to give him some taste of that emotion which was reddening Anne’s cheeks and fixing her eyes on the ground. After clearing his throat, however, he proceeded thus—
他停下来了。一种突然的回忆似乎出现了，让他尝到了安妮脸颊泛红、眼睛盯着地面的那种情感。不过，他清了清嗓子后，接着说道——

‘I confess that I do think there is a disparity, too great a disparity, and in a point no less essential than mind. I regard Louisa Musgrove as a very amiable, sweet-tempered girl, and not deficient in understanding, but Benwick is something more. He is a clever man, a reading man; and I confess, that I do consider his attaching himself to her with some surprise. Had it been the effect of gratitude, had he learnt to love her, because he believed her to be preferring him, it would have been another thing. But I have no reason to suppose it so. It seems, on the contrary, to have been a perfectly spontaneous, untaught feeling on his side, and this surprises me. A man like him, in his situation! with a heart pierced, wounded, almost broken! Fanny Harville was a very superior creature, and his attachment to her was indeed attachment. A man does not recover from such a devotion of the heart to such a woman. He ought not; he does not.’
“我承认，我确实认为存在着差距，差距太大了，而且在这一点上，差距同样重要。我认为路易莎·穆斯格罗夫是一个非常和蔼可亲、脾气温和的女孩，而且不缺乏理解力，但本威克则更出色。他是一个聪明人，一个读书人；我承认，我确实对他对她的依恋感到有些惊讶。如果是出于感激之情，如果他学会了爱她，因为他相信她更喜欢他，那就是另一回事了。但我没有理由这么认为。相反，他似乎有一种完全自发的、未经教养的感觉，这让我感到惊讶。像他这样的人，在他的处境下！一颗心被刺穿，受伤，几乎破碎！范妮·哈维尔是一个非常优秀的人，他对她的依恋确实是依恋。一个男人无法从对这样一个女人的忠诚中恢复过来。他不应该这样做；他没有。'

Either from the consciousness, however, that his friend had recovered, or from other consciousness, he went no farther; and Anne who, in spite of the agitated voice in which the latter part had been uttered, and in spite of all the various noises of the room, the almost ceaseless slam of the door, and ceaseless buzz of persons walking through, had distinguished every word, was struck, gratified, confused, and beginning to breathe very quick, and feel an hundred things in a moment. It was impossible for her to enter on such a subject; and yet, after a pause, feeling the necessity of speaking, and having not the smallest wish for a total change, she only deviated so far as to say—
然而，无论是意识到他的朋友已经康复，还是出于其他意识，他没有再走得更远。安妮，尽管说后半部分的声音很激动，尽管房间里有各种各样的噪音，几乎不停地关门，还有走过的人不停地嗡嗡作响，她还是区分出了每一个声音。这个词，被击中，欣慰，困惑，开始呼吸急促，瞬间感受到一百种东西。她不可能谈论这样的话题。然而，停顿了一会儿，她觉得有必要说话，而且没有丝毫想要彻底改变的愿望，她只是偏离了方向，说道——

‘You were a good while at Lyme, I think?’
“我想你在莱姆度过了一段愉快的时光吧？”

‘About a fortnight. I could not leave it till Louisa’s doing well was quite ascertained. I had been too deeply concerned in the mischief to be soon at peace. It had been my doing, solely mine. She would not have been obstinate if I had not been weak. The country round Lyme is very fine. I walked and rode a great deal; and the more I saw, the more I found to admire.’
‘大约两周。在确定路易莎的状况良好之前，我不能离开它。我对这场恶作剧深感忧虑，无法很快平静下来。这是我做的，完全是我做的。如果我不是软弱的话，她就不会那么固执。莱姆周围的乡村非常好。我经常步行和骑行。我看到的越多，就越感到钦佩。

‘I should very much like to see Lyme again,’ said Anne.
“我非常想再次见到莱姆，”安妮说。

‘Indeed! I should not have supposed that you could have found anything in Lyme to inspire such a feeling. The horror and distress you were involved in, the stretch of mind, the wear of spirits! I should have thought your last impressions of Lyme must have been strong disgust.’
'的确！我不应该认为你能在莱姆找到任何东西来激发这种感觉。你所经历的恐怖和痛苦，心灵的舒展，精神的疲惫！我本以为你对莱姆病的最后印象一定是强烈的厌恶。

‘The last hours were certainly very painful,’ replied Anne; ‘but when pain is over, the remembrance of it often becomes a pleasure. One does not love a place the less for having suffered in it, unless it has been all suffering, nothing but suffering, which was by no means the case at Lyme. We were only in anxiety and distress during the last two hours, and previously there had been a great deal of enjoyment. So much novelty and beauty! I have travelled so little, that every fresh place would be interesting to me; but there is real beauty at Lyme; and in short’ (with a faint blush at some recollections), ‘altogether my impressions of the place are very agreeable.’
“最后几个小时确实非常痛苦，”安妮回答道。 “但当痛苦结束后，对它的回忆往往会变成一种快乐。”一个人不会因为在一个地方遭受过苦难而减少对它的喜爱，除非它全都是苦难，除了苦难之外什么也没有，莱姆的情况绝不是这样。我们只是在最后两个小时里感到焦虑和苦恼，之前还有很多享受。如此多的新奇和美丽！我旅行的次数很少，所以每一个新鲜的地方都会让我感兴趣；但莱姆有真正的美丽；简而言之”（回忆起来有些脸红），“总的来说，我对这个地方的印象非常愉快。”

As she ceased, the entrance door opened again, and the very party appeared for whom they were waiting. ‘Lady Dalrymple, Lady Dalrymple,’ was the rejoicing sound; and with all the eagerness compatible with anxious elegance, Sir Walter and his two ladies stepped forward to meet her. Lady Dalrymple and Miss Carteret, escorted by Mr Elliot and Colonel Wallis, who had happened to arrive nearly at the same instant, advanced into the room. The others joined them, and it was a group in which Anne found herself also necessarily included. She was divided from Captain Wentworth. Their interesting, almost too interesting conversation must be broken up for a time, but slight was the penance compared with the happiness which brought it on! She had learnt, in the last ten minutes, more of his feelings towards Louisa, more of all his feelings than she dared to think of; and she gave herself up to the demands of the party, to the needful civilities of the moment, with exquisite, though agitated sensations. She was in good humour with all. She had received ideas which disposed her to be courteous and kind to all, and to pity every one, as being less happy than herself.
当她停下来时，大门再次打开，他们等待的那群人出现了。 “达尔林普尔夫人，达尔林普尔夫人，”这是欢乐的声音。沃尔特爵士和他的两位女士带着热切与焦虑的优雅相容，上前迎接她。达尔林普尔夫人和卡特雷特小姐在几乎同时到达的埃利奥特先生和沃利斯上校的护送下走进了房间。其他人也加入了他们，安妮发现自己也必然加入了这个群体。她与温特沃斯上尉分开了。他们有趣的、几乎太有趣的谈话必须暂时中断，但与由此带来的幸福相比，苦行是微不足道的！在过去的十分钟里，她了解了更多他对路易莎的感情，了解了他所有的感情，比她敢想的还要多。她带着精致而激动的感觉，屈服于聚会的要求，屈服于当时必要的礼节。她对所有人都很幽默。她所接受的观念使她对所有人都彬彬有礼、友善，并且怜悯每一个人，因为他们不如她自己幸福。

The delightful emotions were a little subdued, when on stepping back from the group, to be joined again by Captain Wentworth, she saw that he was gone. She was just in time to see him turn into the Concert Room. He was gone; he had disappeared, she felt a moment’s regret. But ‘they should meet again. He would look for her, he would find her out before the evening were over, and at present, perhaps, it was as well to be asunder. She was in need of a little interval for recollection.’
当她从人群中退下来，与温特沃斯上尉再次会合时，她发现他已经走了，愉快的情绪有点压抑。她正好看到他走进音乐厅。他走了；他走了。他消失了，她感到一阵遗憾。但是‘他们应该再次见面。他会去找她，他会在晚上结束之前找到她，而现在，也许，最好还是分开。她需要一点时间来回忆。

Upon Lady Russell’s appearance soon afterwards, the whole party was collected, and all that remained was to marshal themselves, and proceed into the Concert Room; and be of all the consequence in their power, draw as many eyes, excite as many whispers, and disturb as many people as they could.
不久之后，拉塞尔夫人一出现，所有的人都聚集起来，剩下的就是整装待发，走进音乐厅。并利用他们的权力发挥重要作用，吸引尽可能多的目光，激发尽可能多的窃窃私语，并扰乱尽可能多的人。

Very, very happy were both Elizabeth and Anne Elliot as they walked in. Elizabeth arm in arm with Miss Carteret, and looking on the broad back of the dowager Viscountess Dalrymple before her, had nothing to wish for which did not seem within her reach; and Anne—but it would be an insult to the nature of Anne’s felicity, to draw any comparison between it and her sister’s; the origin of one all selfish vanity, of the other all generous attachment.
当伊丽莎白和安妮·埃利奥特走进来时，他们都非常非常高兴。伊丽莎白和卡特雷特小姐手挽手，看着面前达尔林普尔子爵夫人宽阔的背影，没有什么愿望是她力所能及的；和安妮——但如果把安妮的幸福与她姐姐的幸福进行比较，那将是对她幸福本质的侮辱。一种是自私的虚荣心，另一种是慷慨的执着。

Anne saw nothing, thought nothing of the brilliancy of the room. Her happiness was from within. Her eyes were bright and her cheeks glowed; but she knew nothing about it. She was thinking only of the last half hour, and as they passed to their seats, her mind took a hasty range over it. His choice of subjects, his expressions, and still more his manner and look, had been such as she could see in only one light. His opinion of Louisa Musgrove’s inferiority, an opinion which he had seemed solicitous to give, his wonder at Captain Benwick, his feelings as to a first, strong attachment; sentences begun which he could not finish, his half averted eyes and more than half expressive glance, all, all declared that he had a heart returning to her at least; that anger, resentment, avoidance, were no more; and that they were succeeded, not merely by friendship and regard, but by the tenderness of the past. Yes, some share of the tenderness of the past. She could not contemplate the change as implying less. He must love her.
安妮什么也没看到，也没有想到这个房间的辉煌。她的幸福是发自内心的。她的眼睛明亮，脸颊容光焕发；但她对此一无所知。她只想着最后的半个小时，当他们坐到座位上时，她的思绪飞快地思考着。他对题材的选择，他的表情，尤其是他的举止和神情，都是她只能一眼看出的。他对路易莎·默斯格罗夫自卑的看法，他似乎很热心地提出的看法，他对本威克船长的惊奇，他对最初的、强烈的依恋的感觉；他开始说不完的句子，他半转的目光，半是富有表情的眼神，这一切，都表明他至少有一颗回到她身边的心；愤怒、怨恨、回避都已不复存在；他们的成功不仅是因为友谊和尊重，还因为过去的温柔。是的，还有一些往日的温柔。她无法认为这一变化意味着更少。他一定爱她。

These were thoughts, with their attendant visions, which occupied and flurried her too much to leave her any power of observation; and she passed along the room without having a glimpse of him, without even trying to discern him. When their places were determined on, and they were all properly arranged, she looked round to see if he should happen to be in the same part of the room, but he was not; her eye could not reach him; and the concert being just opening, she must consent for a time to be happy in a humbler way.
这些想法，以及随之而来的幻象，让她心烦意乱，无法进行任何观察。她穿过房间，没有看他一眼，甚至没有试图辨别他。当他们的位置确定下来，并且都安排妥当后，她环顾四周，看看他是否碰巧在房间的同一部分，但他没有；她的目光无法触及他；而演唱会才刚刚开幕，她必须以一种谦卑的方式同意暂时快乐。

The party was divided and disposed of on two contiguous benches: Anne was among those on the foremost, and Mr Elliot had manoeuvred so well, with the assistance of his friend Colonel Wallis, as to have a seat by her. Miss Elliot, surrounded by her cousins, and the principal object of Colonel Wallis’s gallantry, was quite contented.
一行人被分成两排，坐在两个相邻的长凳上：安妮坐在最前面，埃利奥特先生在他的朋友沃利斯上校的帮助下巧妙地安排了座位，坐在了她旁边。埃利奥特小姐周围都是她的表兄弟，也是沃利斯上校殷勤的主要对象，她感到很满足。

Anne’s mind was in a most favourable state for the entertainment of the evening; it was just occupation enough: she had feelings for the tender, spirits for the gay, attention for the scientific, and patience for the wearisome; and had never liked a concert better, at least during the first act. Towards the close of it, in the interval succeeding an Italian song, she explained the words of the song to Mr Elliot. They had a concert bill between them.
安妮的心情非常适合今晚的娱乐活动。这只是职业而已：她对温柔有感情，对快乐有精神，对科学有关注，对厌倦有耐心。从来没有像现在这样喜欢音乐会，至少在第一幕期间是这样。演出接近尾声时，在一首意大利歌曲之后的间隙，她向埃利奥特先生解释了这首歌的歌词。他们之间有一张音乐会账单。

‘This,’ said she, ‘is nearly the sense, or rather the meaning of the words, for certainly the sense of an Italian love-song must not be talked of, but it is as nearly the meaning as I can give; for I do not pretend to understand the language. I am a very poor Italian scholar.’
“这，”她说，“几乎就是这个意思，或者更确切地说，这句话的意思，因为当然不能谈论意大利情歌的意思，但它是我所能给出的最接近的意思；因为我不会假装听懂这种语言。我是一位非常贫穷的意大利学者。

‘Yes, yes, I see you are. I see you know nothing of the matter. You have only knowledge enough of the language to translate at sight these inverted, transposed, curtailed Italian lines, into clear, comprehensible, elegant English. You need not say anything more of your ignorance. Here is complete proof.’
‘是的，是的，我看你是。我看你对这件事一无所知。你只具备足够的语言知识，就能将这些颠倒、调换、缩减的意大利语线条翻译成清晰、易懂、优雅的英语。你不必再说什么你的无知了。这是完整的证据。

‘I will not oppose such kind politeness; but I should be sorry to be examined by a real proficient.’
“我不会反对这种礼貌；但我应该很遗憾接受真正的专家的检查。

‘I have not had the pleasure of visiting in Camden Place so long,’ replied he, ‘without knowing something of Miss Anne Elliot; and I do regard her as one who is too modest for the world in general to be aware of half her accomplishments, and too highly accomplished for modesty to be natural in any other woman.’
“我很久没来卡姆登广场了，”他回答道，“我对安妮·埃利奥特小姐并不了解。我确实认为她太谦虚了，以至于整个世界都无法意识到她一半的成就，而且她的成就太高了，以至于其他任何女性都无法自然地保持谦虚。

‘For shame! for shame! this is too much flattery. I forget what we are to have next,’ turning to the bill.
'耻辱！耻辱！这太过分了。我忘了我们接下来要吃什么，”转向账单。

‘Perhaps,’ said Mr Elliot, speaking low, ‘I have had a longer acquaintance with your character than you are aware of.’
“也许，”埃利奥特先生低声说道，“我对你性格的了解比你意识到的要久。”

‘Indeed! How so? You can have been acquainted with it only since I came to Bath, excepting as you might hear me previously spoken of in my own family.’
'的确！为何如此？自从我来到巴斯以来，你可能才熟悉它，除非你以前在我自己的家人中听到过我的说法。

‘I knew you by report long before you came to Bath. I had heard you described by those who knew you intimately. I have been acquainted with you by character many years. Your person, your disposition, accomplishments, manner; they were all present to me.’
“早在你来巴斯之前我就通过报道认识了你。我听那些熟悉你的人描述过你。我已经通过性格认识你很多年了。你的为人，你的性情，你的成就，你的举止；他们都在我面前。

Mr Elliot was not disappointed in the interest he hoped to raise. No one can withstand the charm of such a mystery. To have been described long ago to a recent acquaintance, by nameless people, is irresistible; and Anne was all curiosity. She wondered, and questioned him eagerly; but in vain. He delighted in being asked, but he would not tell.
埃利奥特先生对他希望引起的兴趣并没有失望。没有人能够抵挡这样神秘的魅力。很久以前就被无名的人向新认识的人描述过，这是不可抗拒的；安妮充满了好奇。她很疑惑，急切地询问他。但徒劳。他很高兴有人问他，但他不肯说。

‘No, no, some time or other, perhaps, but not now. He would mention no names now; but such, he could assure her, had been the fact. He had many years ago received such a description of Miss Anne Elliot as had inspired him with the highest idea of her merit, and excited the warmest curiosity to know her.’
“不，不，也许有一天，但不是现在。”现在他不会提及任何名字；但他可以向她保证，这就是事实。许多年前，他收到了对安妮·埃利奥特小姐的这样的描述，这激发了他对她的优点的最高认识，并激发了最热烈的好奇心，想了解她。

Anne could think of no one so likely to have spoken with partiality of her many years ago as the Mr Wentworth of Monkford, Captain Wentworth’s brother. He might have been in Mr Elliot’s company, but she had not courage to ask the question.
安妮认为，多年前没有人比蒙克福德的温特沃斯先生、温特沃斯上尉的兄弟更可能对她有偏见。他可能在埃利奥特先生的陪伴下，但她没有勇气问这个问题。

‘The name of Anne Elliot,’ said he, ‘has long had an interesting sound to me. Very long has it possessed a charm over my fancy; and, if I dared, I would breathe my wishes that the name might never change.’
“安妮·埃利奥特这个名字，”他说，“长期以来对我来说都是一个有趣的声音。长期以来，它对我的​​幻想具有魅力；如果我敢的话，我会表达我的愿望，即这个名字永远不会改变。

Such, she believed, were his words; but scarcely had she received their sound, than her attention was caught by other sounds immediately behind her, which rendered every thing else trivial. Her father and Lady Dalrymple were speaking.
她相信，这就是他的话；但她刚听到他们的声音，她的注意力就被紧随其后的其他声音吸引了，这使得其他一切都变得微不足道。她的父亲和达尔林普尔夫人正在讲话。

‘A well-looking man,’ said Sir Walter, ‘a very well-looking man.’
“一个英俊的男人，”沃尔特爵士说，“一个非常英俊的男人。”

‘A very fine young man indeed!’ said Lady Dalrymple. ‘More air than one often sees in Bath. Irish, I dare say.’
“确实是一个非常优秀的年轻人！”达尔林普尔夫人说。 “这里的空气比巴斯常见的还要多。爱尔兰人，我敢说。

‘No, I just know his name. A bowing acquaintance. Wentworth; Captain Wentworth of the navy. His sister married my tenant in Somersetshire, the Croft, who rents Kellynch.’
“不，我只知道他的名字。熟人鞠躬。温特沃斯；海军上尉温特沃斯。他的姐姐嫁给了我在萨默塞特郡的房客克罗夫特，他租下了凯林奇。

Before Sir Walter had reached this point, Anne’s eyes had caught the right direction, and distinguished Captain Wentworth standing among a cluster of men at a little distance. As her eyes fell on him, his seemed to be withdrawn from her. It had that appearance. It seemed as if she had been one moment too late; and as long as she dared observe, he did not look again: but the performance was recommencing, and she was forced to seem to restore her attention to the orchestra and look straight forward.
沃尔特爵士还没走到这一步，安妮的眼睛就已经看清了方向，注意到温特沃斯上尉站在不远处的一群人中间。当她的目光落到他身上时，他的目光似乎就从她身上抽离了。原来是这样的样子。似乎她来晚了一会儿；只要她敢于观察，他就不会再看：但演出又开始了，她似乎被迫恢复对管弦乐队的注意力，直视前方。

When she could give another glance, he had moved away. He could not have come nearer to her if he would; she was so surrounded and shut in: but she would rather have caught his eye.
当她再看一眼时，他已经走开了。如果他愿意的话，他不可能走得更近。她被如此包围和封闭：但她宁愿引起他的注意。

Mr Elliot’s speech, too, distressed her. She had no longer any inclination to talk to him. She wished him not so near her.
艾略特先生的讲话也让她感到苦恼。她已经没有心思和他说话了。她希望他不要离她那么近。

The first act was over. Now she hoped for some beneficial change; and, after a period of nothing-saying amongst the party, some of them did decide on going in quest of tea. Anne was one of the few who did not choose to move. She remained in her seat, and so did Lady Russell; but she had the pleasure of getting rid of Mr Elliot; and she did not mean, whatever she might feel on Lady Russell’s account, to shrink from conversation with Captain Wentworth, if he gave her the opportunity. She was persuaded by Lady Russell’s countenance that she had seen him.
第一幕结束了。现在她希望能有一些有益的改变；经过一段时间的沉默之后，他们中的一些人确实决定去喝茶。安妮是少数没有选择搬家的人之一。她仍然坐在座位上，拉塞尔夫人也是如此。但她很高兴摆脱了埃利奥特先生。不管她对拉塞尔夫人有什么感觉，只要温特沃斯船长给她机会，她都不想回避与他的谈话。拉塞尔夫人的表情让她确信她见过他。

He did not come however. Anne sometimes fancied she discerned him at a distance, but he never came. The anxious interval wore away unproductively. The others returned, the room filled again, benches were reclaimed and repossessed, and another hour of pleasure or of penance was to be sat out, another hour of music was to give delight or the gapes, as real or affected taste for it prevailed. To Anne, it chiefly wore the prospect of an hour of agitation. She could not quit that room in peace without seeing Captain Wentworth once more, without the interchange of one friendly look.
然而他没有来。安妮有时觉得自己在远处就认出了他，但他从未出现过。焦虑的时间毫无结果地过去了。其他人回来了，房间又挤满了人，长凳被收回和收回，又要坐下来享受一小时的快乐或苦修，又一小时的音乐来给人带来欢乐或目瞪口呆，无论是真实的还是做作的品味都占了上风。对安妮来说，这主要意味着一个小时的焦躁不安。如果没有再次见到温特沃斯上尉，没有交换一个友好的眼神，她就无法平静地离开那个房间。

In re-settling themselves there were now many changes, the result of which was favourable for her. Colonel Wallis declined sitting down again, and Mr Elliot was invited by Elizabeth and Miss Carteret, in a manner not to be refused, to sit between them; and by some other removals, and a little scheming of her own, Anne was enabled to place herself much nearer the end of the bench than she had been before, much more within reach of a passer-by. She could not do so, without comparing herself with Miss Larolles, the inimitable Miss Larolles; but still she did it, and not with much happier effect; though by what seemed prosperity in the shape of an early abdication in her next neighbours, she found herself at the very end of the bench before the concert closed.
在重新安置自己的过程中，现在发生了很多变化，其结果对她有利。沃利斯上校拒绝再次坐下，伊丽莎白和卡特雷特小姐以一种不容拒绝的方式邀请埃利奥特先生坐在他们中间。通过其他一些移动，再加上她自己的一点小计谋，安妮能够把自己比以前更靠近长凳的末端，更容易被路人触手可及。她无法做到这一点，除非将自己与拉罗尔斯小姐进行比较，无与伦比的拉罗尔斯小姐。但她还是这么做了，而且效果并没有好多少。尽管她的下一个邻居似乎很早就退位，但在音乐会结束之前，她发现自己已经坐在了长凳的最后一排。

Such was her situation, with a vacant space at hand, when Captain Wentworth was again in sight. She saw him not far off. He saw her too; yet he looked grave, and seemed irresolute, and only by very slow degrees came at last near enough to speak to her. She felt that something must be the matter. The change was indubitable. The difference between his present air and what it had been in the Octagon Room was strikingly great. Why was it? She thought of her father, of Lady Russell. Could there have been any unpleasant glances? He began by speaking of the concert gravely, more like the Captain Wentworth of Uppercross; owned himself disappointed, had expected singing; and in short, must confess that he should not be sorry when it was over. Anne replied, and spoke in defence of the performance so well, and yet in allowance for his feelings so pleasantly, that his countenance improved, and he replied again with almost a smile. They talked for a few minutes more; the improvement held; he even looked down towards the bench, as if he saw a place on it well worth occupying; when at that moment a touch on her shoulder obliged Anne to turn round. It came from Mr Elliot. He begged her pardon, but she must be applied to, to explain Italian again. Miss Carteret was very anxious to have a general idea of what was next to be sung. Anne could not refuse; but never had she sacrificed to politeness with a more suffering spirit.
这就是她的处境，手边有一个空位，当温特沃斯上尉再次出现在她的视线中时。她在不远处看到了他。他也看到了她；但他看上去很严肃，似乎优柔寡断，最后只是慢慢地靠近到可以和她说话。她觉得一定是出了什么问题。这种变化是不容置疑的。他现在的气势和八角厅里的气势相差惊人。为什么会这样？她想起了她的父亲，想起了拉塞尔夫人。会不会有什么不愉快的目光？他一开始就严肃地谈论这场音乐会，更像是厄珀克罗斯的温特沃斯上尉。承认自己很失望，本来以为会唱歌；简而言之，必须承认，事情结束后他不应该感到遗憾。安妮回答道，她很好地为自己的表现辩护，但又如此愉快地考虑到了他的感受，以至于他的脸色好转了，他再次回答时几乎带着微笑。他们又聊了几分钟。取得的进步；他甚至低头看向长凳，仿佛看到了上面有一个值得占据的位置。就在这时，安妮的肩膀被碰了一下，迫使她转过身来。这是埃利奥特先生发来的。他请求她原谅，但她必须再次向她解释意大利语。卡特雷特小姐非常想知道接下来要唱什么。安妮无法拒绝；但她从来没有以如此痛苦的精神牺牲过礼貌。

A few minutes, though as few as possible, were inevitably consumed; and when her own mistress again, when able to turn and look as she had done before, she found herself accosted by Captain Wentworth, in a reserved yet hurried sort of farewell. ‘He must wish her good night; he was going; he should get home as fast as he could.’
几分钟，虽然尽可能短，但不可避免地被消耗掉了。当她再次成为自己的情妇时，当她能够像以前那样转身看时，她发现自己被温特沃斯船长搭讪，以一种含蓄而匆忙的告别。 “他一定要向她道晚安；他要走了；他应该尽快回家。

‘Is not this song worth staying for?’ said Anne, suddenly struck by an idea which made her yet more anxious to be encouraging.
“这首歌难道不值得留下来吗？”安妮突然想到一个想法，这让她更加渴望得到鼓励。

‘No!’ he replied impressively, ‘there is nothing worth my staying for;’ and he was gone directly.
“不！”他令人印象深刻地回答道，“没有什么值得我留下来的；”然后他就直接走了。

Jealousy of Mr Elliot! It was the only intelligible motive. Captain Wentworth jealous of her affection! Could she have believed it a week ago; three hours ago! For a moment the gratification was exquisite. But, alas! there were very different thoughts to succeed. How was such jealousy to be quieted? How was the truth to reach him? How, in all the peculiar disadvantages of their respective situations, would he ever learn of her real sentiments? It was misery to think of Mr Elliot’s attentions. Their evil was incalculable.
嫉妒艾略特先生！这是唯一可以理解的动机。温特沃斯船长嫉妒她的感情！一周前她还能相信吗？三小时前！一时之间，我感到无比的满足。可惜！为了成功，有非常不同的想法。如此嫉妒如何平息？真相如何传到他的耳中呢？在他们各自处境的所有特殊不利条件下，他如何才能了解她的真实情感呢？想到埃利奥特先生的关心，我感到很痛苦。他们的罪恶是无法估量的。

Chapter 21
第21章

Anne recollected with pleasure the next morning her promise of going to Mrs Smith, meaning that it should engage her from home at the time when Mr Elliot would be most likely to call; for to avoid Mr Elliot was almost a first object.
第二天早上，安妮高兴地回忆起她答应去找史密斯太太的事，这意味着她应该在埃利奥特先生最有可能打电话来的时候从家里接她；但她并没有这样做。因为避开埃利奥特先生几乎是首要目标。

She felt a great deal of good-will towards him. In spite of the mischief of his attentions, she owed him gratitude and regard, perhaps compassion. She could not help thinking much of the extraordinary circumstances attending their acquaintance, of the right which he seemed to have to interest her, by everything in situation, by his own sentiments, by his early prepossession. It was altogether very extraordinary; flattering, but painful. There was much to regret. How she might have felt had there been no Captain Wentworth in the case, was not worth enquiry; for there was a Captain Wentworth; and be the conclusion of the present suspense good or bad, her affection would be his for ever. Their union, she believed, could not divide her more from other men, than their final separation.
她对他充满了好感。尽管他的关心造成了伤害，她还是对他心存感激和尊重，也许还有同情心。她情不自禁地想起了他们相识时的特殊情况，想起了他似乎有权利引起她的兴趣，因为当时的一切情况，因为他自己的感情，因为他早年的偏见。这实在是太不寻常了。讨人喜欢，但也很痛苦。有很多遗憾。如果这起案件中没有温特沃斯上尉，她会有何感受，不值一问。因为有一位温特沃斯船长；无论当前悬念的结局是好还是坏，她的感情都将永远属于他。她相信，他们的结合不会比他们最终的分离更能将她与其他男人分开。

Prettier musings of high-wrought love and eternal constancy, could never have passed along the streets of Bath, than Anne was sporting with from Camden Place to Westgate Buildings. It was almost enough to spread purification and perfume all the way.
巴斯的街道上永远不会有比安妮从卡姆登广场到西门大厦的更美妙的关于高度锻造的爱情和永恒不变的沉思。几乎已经足够将净化和香水一路扩散了。

She was sure of a pleasant reception; and her friend seemed this morning particularly obliged to her for coming, seemed hardly to have expected her, though it had been an appointment.
她确信会受到愉快的接待。她的朋友今天早上似乎对她的到来特别感激，似乎几乎没有预料到她会来，尽管这是一个约会。

An account of the concert was immediately claimed; and Anne’s recollections of the concert were quite happy enough to animate her features and make her rejoice to talk of it. All that she could tell she told most gladly, but the all was little for one who had been there, and unsatisfactory for such an enquirer as Mrs Smith, who had already heard, through the short cut of a laundress and a waiter, rather more of the general success and produce of the evening than Anne could relate, and who now asked in vain for several particulars of the company. Everybody of any consequence or notoriety in Bath was well know by name to Mrs Smith.
音乐会的账号立即被认领；安妮对音乐会的回忆非常愉快，足以使她的表情生动起来，让她高兴地谈论它。她非常高兴地讲述了她能告诉的一切，但是对于一个在场的人来说，这一切都微不足道，而且对于像史密斯夫人这样的询问者来说，这并不令人满意，她已经通过洗衣女工和服务员的捷径听到了更多的信息。安妮无法描述当晚的总体成功和成果，现在她徒劳地询问了公司的一些细节。史密斯夫人都知道巴斯里任何有影响力或有名气的人的名字。

‘The little Durands were there, I conclude,’ said she, ‘with their mouths open to catch the music, like unfledged sparrows ready to be fed. They never miss a concert.’
“我得出结论，小杜兰德就在那里，”她说，“张开嘴捕捉音乐，就像羽翼未丰的麻雀准备喂食。他们从不错过任何一场音乐会。

‘Yes; I did not see them myself, but I heard Mr Elliot say they were in the room.’
'是的;我本人没有看到他们，但我听到埃利奥特先生说他们在房间里。”

‘The Ibbotsons, were they there? and the two new beauties, with the tall Irish officer, who is talked of for one of them.’
“伊博森一家，他们在吗？还有两位新美女，还有一位身材高大的爱尔兰军官，人们都在谈论他是其中一位。

‘I do not know. I do not think they were.’
'我不知道。我不认为他们是。

‘Old Lady Mary Maclean? I need not ask after her. She never misses, I know; and you must have seen her. She must have been in your own circle; for as you went with Lady Dalrymple, you were in the seats of grandeur, round the orchestra, of course.’
“老太太玛丽·麦克莱恩？我不需要问她的情况。我知道她从来不会失手；你一定见过她。她一定是在你自己的圈子里；因为当你和达尔林普尔夫人一起去时，你当然坐在管弦乐队周围的豪华座位上。

‘No, that was what I dreaded. It would have been very unpleasant to me in every respect. But happily Lady Dalrymple always chooses to be farther off; and we were exceedingly well placed, that is, for hearing; I must not say for seeing, because I appear to have seen very little.’
‘不，这正是我所害怕的。从各方面来说，这对我来说都是非常不愉快的。但幸运的是，达尔林普尔夫人总是选择离得更远；我们处于非常有利的位置，也就是说，有利于聆听。我不能说是看到了，因为我似乎看到的很少。

‘Oh! you saw enough for your own amusement. I can understand. There is a sort of domestic enjoyment to be known even in a crowd, and this you had. You were a large party in yourselves, and you wanted nothing beyond.’
'哦！你已经看够了自己的娱乐了。我能够了解。即使在人群中，也有一种家庭享受，而你就拥有了。你们本身就是一个大聚会，除此之外你们什么也不想要。

‘But I ought to have looked about me more,’ said Anne, conscious while she spoke that there had in fact been no want of looking about, that the object only had been deficient.
“但我应该多看看四周，”安妮说，她说话时意识到事实上并没有必要四处看看，只是这个物体有缺陷。

‘No, no; you were better employed. You need not tell me that you had a pleasant evening. I see it in your eye. I perfectly see how the hours passed: that you had always something agreeable to listen to. In the intervals of the concert it was conversation.’
'不，不;你的工作更好了。你不必告诉我你度过了一个愉快的夜晚。我在你眼中看到了它。我清楚地看到时间是如何过去的：你总是有一些令人愉快的东西可以听。在音乐会的间隙，大家都是交谈。”

Anne half smiled and said, ‘Do you see that in my eye?’
安妮半笑着说：“你在我眼里看到了这一点吗？”

‘Yes, I do. Your countenance perfectly informs me that you were in company last night with the person whom you think the most agreeable in the world, the person who interests you at this present time more than all the rest of the world put together.’
'是的，我愿意。你的表情完美地告诉我，昨晚你和你认为世界上最讨人喜欢的人在一起，此时此刻你对这个人的兴趣超过了世界上所有其他人的总和。

A blush overspread Anne’s cheeks. She could say nothing.
安妮的脸颊泛起红晕。她什么也说不出来。

‘And such being the case,’ continued Mrs Smith, after a short pause, ‘I hope you believe that I do know how to value your kindness in coming to me this morning. It is really very good of you to come and sit with me, when you must have so many pleasanter demands upon your time.’
“既然如此，”史密斯夫人停顿片刻后继续说道，“我希望你相信我确实知道如何珍惜你今天早上来找我的好意。当你一定有这么多更愉快的事情需要你的时间时，你能来和我坐在一起真是太好了。

Anne heard nothing of this. She was still in the astonishment and confusion excited by her friend’s penetration, unable to imagine how any report of Captain Wentworth could have reached her. After another short silence—
安妮对此一无所知。她还沉浸在朋友的洞察力所带来的惊讶和困惑之中，无法想象温特沃斯上尉的报告怎么会传到她那里。又一阵短暂的沉默后——

‘Pray,’ said Mrs Smith, ‘is Mr Elliot aware of your acquaintance with me? Does he know that I am in Bath?’
“请问，”史密斯夫人说，“埃利奥特先生知道你和我相识吗？他知道我在巴斯吗？

‘Mr Elliot!’ repeated Anne, looking up surprised. A moment’s reflection shewed her the mistake she had been under. She caught it instantaneously; and recovering her courage with the feeling of safety, soon added, more composedly, ‘Are you acquainted with Mr Elliot?’
“埃利奥特先生！”安妮惊讶地抬起头，重复道。片刻的反思让她明白了自己所犯的错误。她立刻就明白了。有了安全感，她又恢复了勇气，很快又平静地补充道：“你认识埃利奥特先生吗？”

‘I have been a good deal acquainted with him,’ replied Mrs Smith, gravely, ‘but it seems worn out now. It is a great while since we met.’
“我和他很熟悉，”史密斯夫人严肃地回答，“但现在看来已经很破旧了。”自从我们见面以来已经有一段时间了。

‘I was not at all aware of this. You never mentioned it before. Had I known it, I would have had the pleasure of talking to him about you.’
“我根本不知道这一点。你以前从来没有提到过。如果我知道的话，我会很高兴和他谈论你。

‘To confess the truth,’ said Mrs Smith, assuming her usual air of cheerfulness, ‘that is exactly the pleasure I want you to have. I want you to talk about me to Mr Elliot. I want your interest with him. He can be of essential service to me; and if you would have the goodness, my dear Miss Elliot, to make it an object to yourself, of course it is done.’
“说实话，”史密斯夫人说，脸上带着她一贯的快乐神情，“这正是我希望你拥有的快乐。我想让你跟埃利奥特先生谈谈我。我希望你对他感兴趣。他可以为我提供重要的服务；亲爱的埃利奥特小姐，如果您愿意将其作为自己的目标，那么当然就完成了。

‘I should be extremely happy; I hope you cannot doubt my willingness to be of even the slightest use to you,’ replied Anne; ‘but I suspect that you are considering me as having a higher claim on Mr Elliot, a greater right to influence him, than is really the case. I am sure you have, somehow or other, imbibed such a notion. You must consider me only as Mr Elliot’s relation. If in that light there is anything which you suppose his cousin might fairly ask of him, I beg you would not hesitate to employ me.’
‘我应该感到非常高兴；我希望你不要怀疑我愿意为你提供哪怕一丁点的帮助。”安妮回答道。 “但我怀疑你认为我对埃利奥特先生有更高的要求，有更大的权利影响他，而不是实际情况。”我相信你已经以某种方式接受了这样的观念。你必须只将我视为埃利奥特先生的亲戚。如果从这个角度来看，你认为他的表弟可能会向他提出任何要求，我请求你毫不犹豫地雇用我。

Mrs Smith gave her a penetrating glance, and then, smiling, said—
史密斯夫人敏锐地看了她一眼，然后微笑着说道——

‘I have been a little premature, I perceive; I beg your pardon. I ought to have waited for official information, But now, my dear Miss Elliot, as an old friend, do give me a hint as to when I may speak. Next week? To be sure by next week I may be allowed to think it all settled, and build my own selfish schemes on Mr Elliot’s good fortune.’
“我觉得我有点早产了；请再说一遍。我应该等待官方消息，但是现在，我亲爱的埃利奥特小姐，作为一个老朋友，请给我一个提示，告诉我什么时候可以说话。下周？可以肯定的是，到下周，我可能会被允许认为一切都已解决，并在埃利奥特先生的好运气上制定我自己的自私计划。

‘No,’ replied Anne, ‘nor next week, nor next, nor next. I assure you that nothing of the sort you are thinking of will be settled any week. I am not going to marry Mr Elliot. I should like to know why you imagine I am?’
“不，”安妮回答说，“下周也不会，下下也不会，下下也不会。”我向你保证，你所想到的那种事情任何一周都不会得到解决。我不会嫁给埃利奥特先生。我想知道你为什么想象我是这样？

Mrs Smith looked at her again, looked earnestly, smiled, shook her head, and exclaimed—
史密斯夫人又看了她一眼，神色认真，微笑着，摇摇头，惊呼道——

‘Now, how I do wish I understood you! How I do wish I knew what you were at! I have a great idea that you do not design to be cruel, when the right moment occurs. Till it does come, you know, we women never mean to have anybody. It is a thing of course among us, that every man is refused, till he offers. But why should you be cruel? Let me plead for my—present friend I cannot call him, but for my former friend. Where can you look for a more suitable match? Where could you expect a more gentlemanlike, agreeable man? Let me recommend Mr Elliot. I am sure you hear nothing but good of him from Colonel Wallis; and who can know him better than Colonel Wallis?’
‘现在，我多么希望能理解你啊！我多么希望知道你在做什么啊！我有一个好主意，当正确的时刻发生时，你不会故意残忍。在它到来之前，你知道，我们女人从来不想拥有任何人。在我们中间，每个人都被拒绝，直到他提出请求，这是理所当然的事情。但你为什么要残忍呢？让我为我现在的朋友辩护，我不能称呼他，但我以前的朋友。哪里可以找到更合适的搭配呢？你还能在哪里期​​待一个更有绅士风度、和蔼可亲的男人呢？让我推荐埃利奥特先生。我相信你从沃利斯上校那里听到的只是他的好话；谁能比沃利斯上校更了解他呢？

‘My dear Mrs Smith, Mr Elliot’s wife has not been dead much above half a year. He ought not to be supposed to be paying his addresses to any one.’
“我亲爱的史密斯夫人，埃利奥特先生的妻子去世才半年多。他不应该向任何人支付他的地址。

‘Oh! if these are your only objections,’ cried Mrs Smith, archly, ‘Mr Elliot is safe, and I shall give myself no more trouble about him. Do not forget me when you are married, that’s all. Let him know me to be a friend of yours, and then he will think little of the trouble required, which it is very natural for him now, with so many affairs and engagements of his own, to avoid and get rid of as he can; very natural, perhaps. Ninety-nine out of a hundred would do the same. Of course, he cannot be aware of the importance to me. Well, my dear Miss Elliot, I hope and trust you will be very happy. Mr Elliot has sense to understand the value of such a woman. Your peace will not be shipwrecked as mine has been. You are safe in all worldly matters, and safe in his character. He will not be led astray; he will not be misled by others to his ruin.’
'哦！如果这是你唯一的反对意见，”史密斯夫人调皮地说，“埃利奥特先生很安全，我不会再为他找麻烦了。结婚后别忘了我，仅此而已。让他知道我是你的朋友，然后他就不会考虑所需要的麻烦，对于他来说，现在有这么多的事务和约会，他很自然地要尽可能地避免和摆脱这些麻烦。 ;也许很自然。一百人中有九十九人会做同样的事情。当然，他不可能意识到对我的重要性。好吧，我亲爱的埃利奥特小姐，我希望并相信你会非常幸福。艾略特先生很明白这样一个女人的价值。你的平安不会像我的那样遭到破坏。你在所有世俗事务上都是安全的，在他的品格上也是安全的。他不会被引入歧途；他不会被别人误导而走向灭亡。

‘No,’ said Anne, ‘I can readily believe all that of my cousin. He seems to have a calm decided temper, not at all open to dangerous impressions. I consider him with great respect. I have no reason, from any thing that has fallen within my observation, to do otherwise. But I have not known him long; and he is not a man, I think, to be known intimately soon. Will not this manner of speaking of him, Mrs Smith, convince you that he is nothing to me? Surely this must be calm enough. And, upon my word, he is nothing to me. Should he ever propose to me (which I have very little reason to imagine he has any thought of doing), I shall not accept him. I assure you I shall not. I assure you, Mr Elliot had not the share which you have been supposing, in whatever pleasure the concert of last night might afford: not Mr Elliot; it is not Mr Elliot that—‘
“不，”安妮说，“我很容易相信我表弟的一切。他的脾气似乎很冷静，决然，根本不会产生危险的印象。我非常尊重他。从我观察到的任何事情来看，我没有理由不这样做。但我认识他时间不长；我想，他并不是一个很快就能被人们熟知的人。史密斯夫人，用这种方式谈论他难道不会让您相信他对我来说毫无意义吗？当然，这必须足够冷静。而且，据我所知，他对我来说什么都不是。如果他向我求婚（我几乎没有理由想象他有任何想法），我不会接受他。我向你保证我不会。我向你保证，埃利奥特先生并没有得到你所想象的那份，无论昨晚的音乐会可能给你带来什么快乐：埃利奥特先生没有；他没有。这不是埃利奥特先生——”

She stopped, regretting with a deep blush that she had implied so much; but less would hardly have been sufficient. Mrs Smith would hardly have believed so soon in Mr Elliot’s failure, but from the perception of there being a somebody else. As it was, she instantly submitted, and with all the semblance of seeing nothing beyond; and Anne, eager to escape farther notice, was impatient to know why Mrs Smith should have fancied she was to marry Mr Elliot; where she could have received the idea, or from whom she could have heard it.
她停了下来，满脸通红，后悔自己说了那么多话。但少一点还不够。史密斯夫人几乎不会这么快就相信埃利奥特先生的失败，但她意识到还有其他人。事实上，她立即屈服了，一副看不到任何东西的样子。安妮急于逃避进一步的关注，迫不及待地想知道为什么史密斯夫人会认为她会嫁给埃利奥特先生。她可以从哪里收到这个想法，或者她可以从谁那里听到这个想法。

‘Do tell me how it first came into your head.’
“请告诉我你是如何想到这一点的。”

‘It first came into my head,’ replied Mrs Smith, ‘upon finding how much you were together, and feeling it to be the most probable thing in the world to be wished for by everybody belonging to either of you; and you may depend upon it that all your acquaintance have disposed of you in the same way. But I never heard it spoken of till two days ago.’
“这个想法首先出现在我的脑海中，”史密斯夫人回答道，“是在发现你们在一起的时间有多长，并感觉这是世界上最有可能为属于你们的每个人所希望的事情；你可以相信，你所有的熟人都以同样的方式对待你。但直到两天前我才听说过这件事。”

‘And has it indeed been spoken of?’
“这件事确实有人说过吗？”

‘Did you observe the woman who opened the door to you when you called yesterday?’
“昨天你打电话的时候，你有没有注意到那个给你开门的女人？”

‘No. Was not it Mrs Speed, as usual, or the maid? I observed no one in particular.’
'不。不是像往常一样是斯皮德太太，还是女仆吗？我没有观察到任何人。

‘It was my friend Mrs Rooke; Nurse Rooke; who, by-the-bye, had a great curiosity to see you, and was delighted to be in the way to let you in. She came away from Marlborough Buildings only on Sunday; and she it was who told me you were to marry Mr Elliot. She had had it from Mrs Wallis herself, which did not seem bad authority. She sat an hour with me on Monday evening, and gave me the whole history.’ ‘The whole history,’ repeated Anne, laughing. ‘She could not make a very long history, I think, of one such little article of unfounded news.’
“这是我的朋友鲁克夫人；鲁克护士；顺便说一句，她非常好奇地想见见你，并且很高兴能挡住你的路，让你进来。她只在周日才从马尔伯勒大厦出来；她只是在周日才离开马尔伯勒大厦。正是她告诉我你要嫁给埃利奥特先生。这是她从沃利斯夫人那里得到的，这似乎是一个不错的权威。周一晚上，她和我一起坐了一个小时，向我讲述了整个历史。” “整个历史，”安妮笑着重复道。 “我认为，她不可能把这样一篇毫无根据的小新闻写成很长的历史。”

Mrs Smith said nothing.
史密斯夫人什么也没说。

‘But,’ continued Anne, presently, ‘though there is no truth in my having this claim on Mr Elliot, I should be extremely happy to be of use to you in any way that I could. Shall I mention to him your being in Bath? Shall I take any message?’
“但是，”安妮接着说道，“尽管我对埃利奥特先生的这种说法并不真实，但我还是非常乐意尽我所能地为您提供帮助。我要向他提一下你在巴斯吗？我要带什么消息吗？

‘No, I thank you: no, certainly not. In the warmth of the moment, and under a mistaken impression, I might, perhaps, have endeavoured to interest you in some circumstances; but not now. No, I thank you, I have nothing to trouble you with.’
“不，我谢谢你：不，当然不是。”在热情洋溢的时刻，以及在错误的印象下，我也许会在某些情况下努力引起您的兴趣；但事实并非如此。但是不是现在。不，我谢谢你，我没有什么可以麻烦你的。

‘I think you spoke of having known Mr Elliot many years?’
“我想你说过认识埃利奥特先生很多年了？”

‘I did.’
“我做到了。”

‘Not before he was married, I suppose?’
“我想不是在他结婚之前吧？”

‘Yes; he was not married when I knew him first.’
'是的;当我第一次认识他时，他还没有结婚。

‘And—were you much acquainted?’
“还有——你们很熟悉吗？”

‘Intimately.’
“亲密地。”

‘Indeed! Then do tell me what he was at that time of life. I have a great curiosity to know what Mr Elliot was as a very young man. Was he at all such as he appears now?’
'的确！那么请告诉我他当时的情况。我非常想知道埃利奥特先生年轻时是什么样的人。他真的像现在这样吗？

‘I have not seen Mr Elliot these three years,’ was Mrs Smith’s answer, given so gravely that it was impossible to pursue the subject farther; and Anne felt that she had gained nothing but an increase of curiosity. They were both silent: Mrs Smith very thoughtful. At last—
“我已经三年没见过埃利奥特先生了。”史密斯夫人的回答如此严肃，以至于不可能再进一步追问这个话题。安妮觉得自己除了增加了好奇心之外什么也没得到。他们俩都沉默了：史密斯夫人非常体贴。终于-

‘I beg your pardon, my dear Miss Elliot,’ she cried, in her natural tone of cordiality, ‘I beg your pardon for the short answers I have been giving you, but I have been uncertain what I ought to do. I have been doubting and considering as to what I ought to tell you. There were many things to be taken into the account. One hates to be officious, to be giving bad impressions, making mischief. Even the smooth surface of family-union seems worth preserving, though there may be nothing durable beneath. However, I have determined; I think I am right; I think you ought to be made acquainted with Mr Elliot’s real character. Though I fully believe that, at present, you have not the smallest intention of accepting him, there is no saying what may happen. You might, some time or other, be differently affected towards him. Hear the truth, therefore, now, while you are unprejudiced. Mr Elliot is a man without heart or conscience; a designing, wary, cold-blooded being, who thinks only of himself; whom for his own interest or ease, would be guilty of any cruelty, or any treachery, that could be perpetrated without risk of his general character. He has no feeling for others. Those whom he has been the chief cause of leading into ruin, he can neglect and desert without the smallest compunction. He is totally beyond the reach of any sentiment of justice or compassion. Oh! he is black at heart, hollow and black!’
“请您原谅，我亲爱的埃利奥特小姐，”她用她自然而亲切的语气喊道，“请您原谅我给您的简短回答，但我一直不确定我应该做什么。我一直在怀疑和思考我应该告诉你什么。有很多事情需要考虑。人们讨厌多管闲事，讨厌给人留下不好的印象，讨厌恶作剧。即使是家庭联盟光滑的表面似乎也值得保留，尽管其表面可能没有什么持久的东西。然而，我已经决定了；我想我是对的；我认为你应该了解埃利奥特先生的真实性格。虽然我完全相信，目前你并没有丝毫接受他的意思，但也不能说会发生什么。有时候，你可能会对他产生不同的影响。因此，现在就在你不带偏见的情况下聆听真相。艾略特先生是一个没有良心、没有良心的人；一个狡猾、警惕、冷血的人，只考虑自己；为了自己的利益或安逸，他可能会犯下任何残忍行为或任何背叛行为，而不会危及他的一般性格。他对别人没有感觉。那些被他引向灭亡的主要原因的人，他可以忽视和抛弃，而没有丝毫的内疚。他完全超出了任何正义感或同情心的范围。哦！他的内心是黑色的，空洞的，黑色的！”

Anne’s astonished air, and exclamation of wonder, made her pause, and in a calmer manner, she added,
安妮惊讶的表情和惊奇的感叹让她停了下来，她以平静的态度补充道：

‘My expressions startle you. You must allow for an injured, angry woman. But I will try to command myself. I will not abuse him. I will only tell you what I have found him. Facts shall speak. He was the intimate friend of my dear husband, who trusted and loved him, and thought him as good as himself. The intimacy had been formed before our marriage. I found them most intimate friends; and I, too, became excessively pleased with Mr Elliot, and entertained the highest opinion of him. At nineteen, you know, one does not think very seriously; but Mr Elliot appeared to me quite as good as others, and much more agreeable than most others, and we were almost always together. We were principally in town, living in very good style. He was then the inferior in circumstances; he was then the poor one; he had chambers in the Temple, and it was as much as he could do to support the appearance of a gentleman. He had always a home with us whenever he chose it; he was always welcome; he was like a brother. My poor Charles, who had the finest, most generous spirit in the world, would have divided his last farthing with him; and I know that his purse was open to him; I know that he often assisted him.’
‘我的表情让你吃惊。你必须考虑到一个受伤、愤怒的女人。但我会努力指挥自己。我不会虐待他。我只会告诉你我找到他的情况。事实说话。他是我亲爱的丈夫的亲密朋友，我丈夫信任他、爱他，认为他和他一样好。我们的亲密关系是在我们结婚之前就已经形成的。我发现他们是最亲密的朋友；我也对埃利奥特先生非常满意，对他评价最高。你知道，十九岁时，一个人不会很认真地思考；但在我看来，埃利奥特先生和其他人一样好，而且比大多数其他人更令人愉快，而且我们几乎总是在一起。我们主要在城里，生活风格非常好。那时他在环境上处于劣势。那时他是穷人；他在圣殿里有房间，这也是他能做的最大的努力，以维持一个绅士的形象。无论何时，只要他选择，他总是和我们在一起；他总是受到欢迎；他就像一个兄弟。我可怜的查尔斯，他有着世界上最优秀、最慷慨的精神，他会把自己最后的一文钱都分给他。我知道他的钱包是向他敞开的；我知道他经常帮助他。

‘This must have been about that very period of Mr Elliot’s life,’ said Anne, ‘which has always excited my particular curiosity. It must have been about the same time that he became known to my father and sister. I never knew him myself; I only heard of him; but there was a something in his conduct then, with regard to my father and sister, and afterwards in the circumstances of his marriage, which I never could quite reconcile with present times. It seemed to announce a different sort of man.’
“这一定是埃利奥特先生一生中的那个时期，”安妮说，“这一直激发着我特别的好奇心。大约在同一时间，我的父亲和姐姐认识了他。我本人从来不认识他；我只听说过他；但他当时对我父亲和妹妹的行为，以及后来他的婚姻状况，有一种我永远无法与现在的时代调和的东西。这似乎宣告了一个不同类型的人。

‘I know it all, I know it all,’ cried Mrs Smith. ‘He had been introduced to Sir Walter and your sister before I was acquainted with him, but I heard him speak of them for ever. I know he was invited and encouraged, and I know he did not choose to go. I can satisfy you, perhaps, on points which you would little expect; and as to his marriage, I knew all about it at the time. I was privy to all the fors and againsts; I was the friend to whom he confided his hopes and plans; and though I did not know his wife previously, her inferior situation in society, indeed, rendered that impossible, yet I knew her all her life afterwards, or at least till within the last two years of her life, and can answer any question you may wish to put.’
“我知道这一切，我知道这一切，”史密斯夫人喊道。 “在我认识他之前，他就被介绍给沃尔特爵士和你的妹妹，但我一直听到他谈起他们。我知道他是受到邀请和鼓励的，我也知道他没有选择去。也许我可以在一些你意想不到的方面让你满意；至于他的婚姻，我当时就知道了。我对所有的赞成和反对都心知肚明。我是他向我倾诉他的希望和计划的朋友。虽然我以前并不认识他的妻子，她在社会上的地位低下，确实使这不可能，但我后来认识了她一生，或者至少直到她生命的最后两年，并且可以回答你的任何问题不妨放。

‘Nay,’ said Anne, ‘I have no particular enquiry to make about her. I have always understood they were not a happy couple. But I should like to know why, at that time of his life, he should slight my father’s acquaintance as he did. My father was certainly disposed to take very kind and proper notice of him. Why did Mr Elliot draw back?’
“不，”安妮说，“我对她没有什么特别的询问。我一直明白他们不是一对幸福的夫妻。但我想知道，为什么在他生命的那个时期，他会像他那样轻视我父亲的相识。我父亲当然愿意非常友善和适当地照顾他。艾略特先生为什么退缩了？

‘Mr Elliot,’ replied Mrs Smith, ‘at that period of his life, had one object in view: to make his fortune, and by a rather quicker process than the law. He was determined to make it by marriage. He was determined, at least, not to mar it by an imprudent marriage; and I know it was his belief (whether justly or not, of course I cannot decide), that your father and sister, in their civilities and invitations, were designing a match between the heir and the young lady, and it was impossible that such a match should have answered his ideas of wealth and independence. That was his motive for drawing back, I can assure you. He told me the whole story. He had no concealments with me. It was curious, that having just left you behind me in Bath, my first and principal acquaintance on marrying should be your cousin; and that, through him, I should be continually hearing of your father and sister. He described one Miss Elliot, and I thought very affectionately of the other.’
“埃利奥特先生，”史密斯夫人回答说，“在他生命的那个时期，他有一个目标：通过比法律更快的程序来发财。他决心通过婚姻来实现这一目标。至少，他决心不让一场轻率的婚姻毁掉他的婚姻。我知道他相信（无论正义与否，当然我无法决定），你的父亲和妹妹在他们的礼貌和邀请中，正在设计继承人与年轻女士之间的婚姻，而这样的事情是不可能的一场比赛应该能够满足他对财富和独立的想法。我可以向你保证，这就是他退出的动机。他告诉了我整个故事。他对我没有任何隐瞒。奇怪的是，我刚刚把你留在巴斯，我结婚时第一个也是主要的熟人竟然是你的表弟；通过他，我可以不断听到你父亲和妹妹的消息。他描述了一位艾略特小姐，而我则非常亲切地想到了另一位。

‘Perhaps,’ cried Anne, struck by a sudden idea, ‘you sometimes spoke of me to Mr Elliot?’
“也许，”安妮忽然想到，“你有时会向埃利奥特先生提起我？”

‘To be sure I did; very often. I used to boast of my own Anne Elliot, and vouch for your being a very different creature from—‘
“我确实做到了；常常。我曾经吹嘘过我自己的安妮·埃利奥特，并保证你是一个非常不同的生物——”

She checked herself just in time.
她及时检查了自己。

‘This accounts for something which Mr Elliot said last night,’ cried Anne. ‘This explains it. I found he had been used to hear of me. I could not comprehend how. What wild imaginations one forms where dear self is concerned! How sure to be mistaken! But I beg your pardon; I have interrupted you. Mr Elliot married then completely for money? The circumstances, probably, which first opened your eyes to his character.’
“这解释了埃利奥特先生昨晚所说的话，”安妮喊道。 ‘这就解释了。我发现他已经习惯听我说话了。我无法理解怎么办。当涉及到亲爱的自己时，一个人会产生多么疯狂的想象力啊！多么肯定会弄错啊！但请您原谅；我打断你了。艾略特先生结婚完全是为了钱吗？也许是当时的环境让你第一次看到了他的性格。

Mrs Smith hesitated a little here. ‘Oh! those things are too common. When one lives in the world, a man or woman’s marrying for money is too common to strike one as it ought. I was very young, and associated only with the young, and we were a thoughtless, gay set, without any strict rules of conduct. We lived for enjoyment. I think differently now; time and sickness and sorrow have given me other notions; but at that period I must own I saw nothing reprehensible in what Mr Elliot was doing. ‘To do the best for himself,’ passed as a duty.’
史密斯夫人说到这里有些犹豫。 '哦！这些事情太常见了。当一个人生活在这个世界上时，男人或女人为了金钱而结婚的现象太常见了，以至于让人觉得这是不应该的。我当时很年轻，只和年轻人打交道，我们是一群轻率、快乐的人，没有任何严格的行为规则。我们活着就是为了享受。我现在的想法不同了；时间、疾病和悲伤给了我其他的想法；但在那个时期，我必须承认，我认为埃利奥特先生的所作所为并没有什么值得谴责的。 “为自己做到最好，”被视为一种责任。

‘But was not she a very low woman?’
“但她不是一个非常卑微的女人吗？”

‘Yes; which I objected to, but he would not regard. Money, money, was all that he wanted. Her father was a grazier, her grandfather had been a butcher, but that was all nothing. She was a fine woman, had had a decent education, was brought forward by some cousins, thrown by chance into Mr Elliot’s company, and fell in love with him; and not a difficulty or a scruple was there on his side, with respect to her birth. All his caution was spent in being secured of the real amount of her fortune, before he committed himself. Depend upon it, whatever esteem Mr Elliot may have for his own situation in life now, as a young man he had not the smallest value for it. His chance for the Kellynch estate was something, but all the honour of the family he held as cheap as dirt. I have often heard him declare, that if baronetcies were saleable, anybody should have his for fifty pounds, arms and motto, name and livery included; but I will not pretend to repeat half that I used to hear him say on that subject. It would not be fair; and yet you ought to have proof, for what is all this but assertion, and you shall have proof.’
'是的;我反对，但他不予理睬。钱，钱，这就是他想要的一切。她的父亲是一名牧场主，她的祖父是一名屠夫，但那都不算什么。她是一个优秀的女人，受过良好的教育，由一些表兄弟抚养长大，偶然被扔进埃利奥特先生的公司，并爱上了他；对于她的出生，他没有任何困难或顾忌。在他作出承诺之前，他所有的谨慎都花在了确保她的财产的真实数额上。相信吧，无论埃利奥特先生对自己现在的生活处境有多么尊重，作为一个年轻人，他对此都没有丝毫的重视。他获得凯林奇庄园的机会固然重要，但他对家族的所有荣誉视若粪土。我经常听到他宣称，如果男爵爵位可以出售，那么任何人都应该以五十英镑的价格获得他的爵位，包括纹章和座右铭、姓名和制服；但我不会假装重复我过去听到他就这个问题说的话的一半。这不公平；然而你应该有证据，因为这一切不过是断言，你应该有证据。

‘Indeed, my dear Mrs Smith, I want none,’ cried Anne. ‘You have asserted nothing contradictory to what Mr Elliot appeared to be some years ago. This is all in confirmation, rather, of what we used to hear and believe. I am more curious to know why he should be so different now.’
“确实，我亲爱的史密斯夫人，我什么都不要。”安妮喊道。 “你的说法与埃利奥特先生几年前的说法没有任何矛盾。相反，这一切都证实了我们过去所听到和相信的事情。我更好奇为什么他现在会如此不同。

‘But for my satisfaction, if you will have the goodness to ring for Mary; stay: I am sure you will have the still greater goodness of going yourself into my bedroom, and bringing me the small inlaid box which you will find on the upper shelf of the closet.’
“但是让我满意的是，如果你愿意按铃叫玛丽的话；留下来：我相信，如果你亲自走进我的卧室，给我带来一个镶嵌在衣柜上层架子上的小盒子，你会得到更大的好处。

Anne, seeing her friend to be earnestly bent on it, did as she was desired. The box was brought and placed before her, and Mrs Smith, sighing over it as she unlocked it, said—
安妮见朋友一心一意，就照她的意思做了。盒子被带到她面前，史密斯夫人打开盒子，叹了口气，说道——

‘This is full of papers belonging to him, to my husband; a small portion only of what I had to look over when I lost him. The letter I am looking for was one written by Mr Elliot to him before our marriage, and happened to be saved; why, one can hardly imagine. But he was careless and immethodical, like other men, about those things; and when I came to examine his papers, I found it with others still more trivial, from different people scattered here and there, while many letters and memorandums of real importance had been destroyed. Here it is; I would not burn it, because being even then very little satisfied with Mr Elliot, I was determined to preserve every document of former intimacy. I have now another motive for being glad that I can produce it.’
“这里面装满了属于他、属于我丈夫的文件；这只是我失去他后必须要注意的一小部分。我要找的信是埃利奥特先生在我们结婚前写给他的一封信，碰巧被保存下来；为什么，人们很难想象。但他和其他人一样，对这些事情粗心大意、缺乏条理。当我检查他的文件时，我发现其他文件更加琐碎，来自分散在各处的不同人，而许多真正重要的信件和备忘录已被销毁。这里是;我不会烧掉它，因为即使在那时我对埃利奥特先生也不太满意，我决心保留以前亲密的每一份文件。我现在有另一个动机为我能够制作它而感到高兴。

This was the letter, directed to ‘Charles Smith, Esq. Tunbridge Wells,’ and dated from London, as far back as July, 1803: —
这就是一封写给“查尔斯·史密斯先生”的信。坦布里奇韦尔斯”，发自伦敦，最早可追溯到 1803 年 7 月：——

‘Dear Smith,—I have received yours. Your kindness almost overpowers me. I wish nature had made such hearts as yours more common, but I have lived three-and-twenty years in the world, and have seen none like it. At present, believe me, I have no need of your services, being in cash again. Give me joy: I have got rid of Sir Walter and Miss. They are gone back to Kellynch, and almost made me swear to visit them this summer; but my first visit to Kellynch will be with a surveyor, to tell me how to bring it with best advantage to the hammer. The baronet, nevertheless, is not unlikely to marry again; he is quite fool enough. If he does, however, they will leave me in peace, which may be a decent equivalent for the reversion. He is worse than last year.
“亲爱的史密斯，我已经收到你的了。你的善良几乎压倒了我。我希望大自然能让像你这样的心变得更常见，但我在这个世界上生活了三年二十年，还没有见过像你这样的人。现在，相信我，我不需要你的服务，又是现金了。给我带来快乐：我已经摆脱了沃尔特爵士和小姐。他们回到了凯林奇，差点让我发誓今年夏天要去拜访他们；但我第一次访问凯林奇时将与一位测量员一起，他会告诉我如何以最大的优势将其带到锤子上。不过，从男爵再婚的可能性也不是没有。他真是够傻的。然而，如果他这样做了，他们会让我平静下来，这可能是回归的一个不错的等价物。他比去年更糟糕。

‘I wish I had any name but Elliot. I am sick of it. The name of Walter I can drop, thank God! and I desire you will never insult me with my second W. again, meaning, for the rest of my life, to be only yours truly,—Wm. Elliot.’
“我希望除了埃利奥特之外我还有别的名字。我受够了。感谢上帝，我可以放弃沃尔特的名字了！我希望你再也不会用我的第二个W来侮辱我，这意味着，在我的余生中，我只真正属于你，-Wm。艾略特。”

Such a letter could not be read without putting Anne in a glow; and Mrs Smith, observing the high colour in her face, said—
读完这样一封信，安妮一定会兴奋不已。史密斯夫人看到她脸色涨红，说道——

‘The language, I know, is highly disrespectful. Though I have forgot the exact terms, I have a perfect impression of the general meaning. But it shows you the man. Mark his professions to my poor husband. Can any thing be stronger?’
“我知道，这种语言是非常不尊重的。虽然我已经忘记了具体的术语，但我对一般含义有很好的印象。但它向你展示了这个人。把他的职业标记给我可怜的丈夫。还有比这更强大的东西吗？

Anne could not immediately get over the shock and mortification of finding such words applied to her father. She was obliged to recollect that her seeing the letter was a violation of the laws of honour, that no one ought to be judged or to be known by such testimonies, that no private correspondence could bear the eye of others, before she could recover calmness enough to return the letter which she had been meditating over, and say—
当安妮发现这些话适用于她的父亲时，她无法立即摆脱震惊和羞愧。她不得不回忆起，她看到这封信是违反荣誉法的行为，任何人都不应该通过这样的证词来判断或认识，在她恢复平静之前，任何私人信件都不能经受别人的注意。足以退还她一直在沉思的那封信，并说——

‘Thank you. This is full proof undoubtedly; proof of every thing you were saying. But why be acquainted with us now?’
'谢谢。这无疑是充分的证明；你所说的每件事的证据。但为什么现在才认识我们呢？

‘I can explain this too,’ cried Mrs Smith, smiling.
“我也能解释这一点，”史密斯夫人微笑着喊道。

‘Can you really?’
“你真的可以吗？”

‘Yes. I have shewn you Mr Elliot as he was a dozen years ago, and I will shew him as he is now. I cannot produce written proof again, but I can give as authentic oral testimony as you can desire, of what he is now wanting, and what he is now doing. He is no hypocrite now. He truly wants to marry you. His present attentions to your family are very sincere: quite from the heart. I will give you my authority: his friend Colonel Wallis.’
'是的。我已经向你们展示了十几年前的埃利奥特先生，我也会向你们展示他现在的样子。我无法再次提供书面证据，但我可以按照您的要求提供真实的口头证词，说明他现在想要什么，以及他现在正在做什么。他现在不再是伪君子了。他是真心想跟你结婚的。他现在对你家人的关心是非常真诚的：完全是发自内心的。我会给你我的权威：他的朋友沃利斯上校。

‘Colonel Wallis! you are acquainted with him?’
“沃利斯上校！你认识他吗？

‘No. It does not come to me in quite so direct a line as that; it takes a bend or two, but nothing of consequence. The stream is as good as at first; the little rubbish it collects in the turnings is easily moved away. Mr Elliot talks unreservedly to Colonel Wallis of his views on you, which said Colonel Wallis, I imagine to be, in himself, a sensible, careful, discerning sort of character; but Colonel Wallis has a very pretty silly wife, to whom he tells things which he had better not, and he repeats it all to her. She in the overflowing spirits of her recovery, repeats it all to her nurse; and the nurse knowing my acquaintance with you, very naturally brings it all to me. On Monday evening, my good friend Mrs Rooke let me thus much into the secrets of Marlborough Buildings. When I talked of a whole history, therefore, you see I was not romancing so much as you supposed.’
'不。我并没有这么直接地想到这一点。需要转一两个弯，但没什么影响。流和最初一样好；它在转弯处收集的小垃圾很容易被移走。埃利奥特先生毫无保留地向沃利斯上校讲述了他对您的看法，沃利斯上校说，我想他本人是一个明智、谨慎、有洞察力的人；但是沃利斯上校有一个非常愚蠢的妻子，他对她说了一些他最好不要说的话，然后他又向她重复了这一切。她在康复过程中兴高采烈，向护士重复了这一切。护士知道我和你很熟，很自然地将这一切告诉了我。周一晚上，我的好朋友鲁克夫人让我深入了解了马尔堡建筑的秘密。因此，当我谈论整个历史时，你会发现我并不像你想象的那么浪漫。

‘My dear Mrs Smith, your authority is deficient. This will not do. Mr Elliot’s having any views on me will not in the least account for the efforts he made towards a reconciliation with my father. That was all prior to my coming to Bath. I found them on the most friendly terms when I arrived.’
“我亲爱的史密斯夫人，你的权威不足。这是不行的。埃利奥特先生对我有任何看法，丝毫不能说明他为与我父亲和解所做的努力。这都是我来巴斯之前的事了。当我到达时，我以最友好的方式找到了他们。

‘I know you did; I know it all perfectly, but—‘
‘我知道你做到了；我完全知道这一切，但是——”

‘Indeed, Mrs Smith, we must not expect to get real information in such a line. Facts or opinions which are to pass through the hands of so many, to be misconceived by folly in one, and ignorance in another, can hardly have much truth left.’
“事实上，史密斯夫人，我们不能指望从这样的文字中得到真实的信息。事实或观点经过如此多的人之手，被一个人的愚蠢和另一个人的无知所误解，就很难留下多少真理了。

‘Only give me a hearing. You will soon be able to judge of the general credit due, by listening to some particulars which you can yourself immediately contradict or confirm. Nobody supposes that you were his first inducement. He had seen you indeed, before he came to Bath, and admired you, but without knowing it to be you. So says my historian, at least. Is this true? Did he see you last summer or autumn, ‘somewhere down in the west,’ to use her own words, without knowing it to be you?’
“只给我听听。”通过聆听一些你可以立即反驳或确认的细节，你很快就能判断应有的一般信用。没有人认为你是他的第一个诱因。在来巴斯之前，他确实见过你，并且很欣赏你，但他不知道那就是你。至少我的历史学家是这么说的。这是真的？去年夏天或秋天，用她自己的话来说，他是否在‘西部的某个地方’见过你，但他并不知道那是你？”

‘He certainly did. So far it is very true. At Lyme. I happened to be at Lyme.’
'他当然做到了。到目前为止，这是非常正确的。在莱姆。我碰巧在莱姆。

‘Well,’ continued Mrs Smith, triumphantly, ‘grant my friend the credit due to the establishment of the first point asserted. He saw you then at Lyme, and liked you so well as to be exceedingly pleased to meet with you again in Camden Place, as Miss Anne Elliot, and from that moment, I have no doubt, had a double motive in his visits there. But there was another, and an earlier, which I will now explain. If there is anything in my story which you know to be either false or improbable, stop me. My account states, that your sister’s friend, the lady now staying with you, whom I have heard you mention, came to Bath with Miss Elliot and Sir Walter as long ago as September (in short when they first came themselves), and has been staying there ever since; that she is a clever, insinuating, handsome woman, poor and plausible, and altogether such in situation and manner, as to give a general idea, among Sir Walter’s acquaintance, of her meaning to be Lady Elliot, and as general a surprise that Miss Elliot should be apparently, blind to the danger.’
“好吧，”史密斯夫人得意洋洋地继续说道，“请相信我的朋友，因为第一点是成立的。”当时他在莱姆见到了你，非常喜欢你，非常高兴能以安妮·埃利奥特小姐的身份在卡姆登广场再次见到你，从那一刻起，我毫不怀疑，他访问那里有双重动机。但还有另一个，而且是更早的，我现在将对此进行解释。如果你知道我的故事中有任何错误或不可能的内容，请阻止我。我的叙述是，你姐姐的朋友，现在和你住在一起的那位女士，我听你提到过，早在九月份就和埃利奥特小姐和沃尔特爵士一起来到巴斯（简而言之，当他们第一次来的时候），并且一直在从那以后就一直呆在那里；沃尔特爵士的熟人中，她是一个聪明、含蓄、英俊的女人，贫穷而可信，无论是在处境还是举止上，都让沃尔特爵士的熟人对她作为埃利奥特夫人的意义有一个总体的了解，而且总的来说，小姐的表现令人惊讶埃利奥特显然应该对危险视而不见。

Here Mrs Smith paused a moment; but Anne had not a word to say, and she continued—
说到这里，史密斯夫人停顿了一下。但安妮无话可说，她继续说——

‘This was the light in which it appeared to those who knew the family, long before you returned to it; and Colonel Wallis had his eye upon your father enough to be sensible of it, though he did not then visit in Camden Place; but his regard for Mr Elliot gave him an interest in watching all that was going on there, and when Mr Elliot came to Bath for a day or two, as he happened to do a little before Christmas, Colonel Wallis made him acquainted with the appearance of things, and the reports beginning to prevail. Now you are to understand, that time had worked a very material change in Mr Elliot’s opinions as to the value of a baronetcy. Upon all points of blood and connexion he is a completely altered man. Having long had as much money as he could spend, nothing to wish for on the side of avarice or indulgence, he has been gradually learning to pin his happiness upon the consequence he is heir to. I thought it coming on before our acquaintance ceased, but it is now a confirmed feeling. He cannot bear the idea of not being Sir William. You may guess, therefore, that the news he heard from his friend could not be very agreeable, and you may guess what it produced; the resolution of coming back to Bath as soon as possible, and of fixing himself here for a time, with the view of renewing his former acquaintance, and recovering such a footing in the family as might give him the means of ascertaining the degree of his danger, and of circumventing the lady if he found it material. This was agreed upon between the two friends as the only thing to be done; and Colonel Wallis was to assist in every way that he could. He was to be introduced, and Mrs Wallis was to be introduced, and everybody was to be introduced. Mr Elliot came back accordingly; and on application was forgiven, as you know, and re-admitted into the family; and there it was his constant object, and his only object (till your arrival added another motive), to watch Sir Walter and Mrs Clay. He omitted no opportunity of being with them, threw himself in their way, called at all hours; but I need not be particular on this subject. You can imagine what an artful man would do; and with this guide, perhaps, may recollect what you have seen him do.’
“早在你回到这个家庭之前，那些了解这个家庭的人就看到了这样的光芒；沃利斯上校对你父亲的关注足以察觉到这一点，尽管他当时没有去卡姆登广场拜访。但是他对埃利奥特先生的尊重使他有兴趣观察那里发生的一切，当埃利奥特先生来到巴斯一两天时，正如他在圣诞节前碰巧做的那样，沃利斯上校让他熟悉了这一切事情的进展，报告开始盛行。现在你应该明白了，那段时间让埃利奥特先生对男爵的价值的看法发生了非常重大的变化。从血缘和联系的各个方面来看，他已经是一个完全改变的人了。长期以来，他已经拥有了能花的钱，除了贪婪或放纵之外，没有什么可奢望的，他逐渐学会了将自己的幸福寄托在他所继承的后果上。在我们不再相识之前，我以为这种感觉就会出现，但现在这种感觉已经得到证实。他无法忍受自己不是威廉爵士。因此，你可能会猜想，他从他的朋友那里听到的消息可能不太令人愉快，你也可能会猜到它会产生什么结果；但是，你可能会猜到，他从朋友那里听到的消息可能不太令人愉快。决心尽快回到巴斯，在这里住一段时间，以期重温以前的相识，恢复在家庭中的立足点，这样他就有办法确定自己的家庭地位。危险，如果他发现这件事很重要，他就会绕过这位女士。两位朋友一致认为这是唯一要做的事。沃利斯上校将尽其所能提供协助。他要被介绍，沃利斯夫人也要被介绍，每个人都要被介绍。 艾略特先生也随之回来了。如你所知，经申请后，他被宽恕了，并重新融入了这个家庭。在那里，观看沃尔特爵士和克莱夫人是他不变的目标，也是他唯一的目标（直到你的到来增加了另一个动机）。他不放过与他们在一起的机会，亲自挡住他们的路，随时打电话来。但我不需要特别讨论这个问题。你可以想象一个狡猾的人会做什么；通过本指南，也许您可​​以回忆起您所看到的他所做的事情。’

‘Yes,’ said Anne, ‘you tell me nothing which does not accord with what I have known, or could imagine. There is always something offensive in the details of cunning. The manoeuvres of selfishness and duplicity must ever be revolting, but I have heard nothing which really surprises me. I know those who would be shocked by such a representation of Mr Elliot, who would have difficulty in believing it; but I have never been satisfied. I have always wanted some other motive for his conduct than appeared. I should like to know his present opinion, as to the probability of the event he has been in dread of; whether he considers the danger to be lessening or not.’
“是的，”安妮说，“你告诉我的一切都与我所知道的或所能想象的不相符。狡猾的细节总有令人反感的地方。自私和口是心非的伎俩肯定令人反感，但我没有听到任何真正令我惊讶的事情。我知道有些人会对埃利奥特先生的这种表述感到震惊，他们很难相信这一点。但我从来没有满足过。我一直想知道他的行为有其他动机，而不是表面上的动机。我想知道他目前对他所担心的事件发生的可能性有何看法；他是否认为危险正在减轻。

‘Lessening, I understand,’ replied Mrs Smith. ‘He thinks Mrs Clay afraid of him, aware that he sees through her, and not daring to proceed as she might do in his absence. But since he must be absent some time or other, I do not perceive how he can ever be secure while she holds her present influence. Mrs Wallis has an amusing idea, as nurse tells me, that it is to be put into the marriage articles when you and Mr Elliot marry, that your father is not to marry Mrs Clay. A scheme, worthy of Mrs Wallis’s understanding, by all accounts; but my sensible nurse Rooke sees the absurdity of it. ‘Why, to be sure, ma’am,’ said she, ‘it would not prevent his marrying anybody else.’ And, indeed, to own the truth, I do not think nurse, in her heart, is a very strenuous opposer of Sir Walter’s making a second match. She must be allowed to be a favourer of matrimony, you know; and (since self will intrude) who can say that she may not have some flying visions of attending the next Lady Elliot, through Mrs Wallis’s recommendation?’
“减少，我明白，”史密斯夫人回答道。 “他认为克莱夫人害怕他，意识到他看穿了她，并且不敢像他不在时那样继续下去。但由于他有时必须缺席，我不认为当她拥有目前的影响力时，他如何能够安全。正如护士告诉我的那样，沃利斯夫人有一个有趣的想法，即当您和埃利奥特先生结婚时，应将其写入婚姻条款中，即您的父亲不得与克莱夫人结婚。从各方面来看，这是一个值得沃利斯夫人理解的计划；但我明智的护士鲁克看出了这件事的荒谬。 “当然，女士，”她说，“这不会阻止他与其他人结婚。”事实上，为了承认事实，我不认为护士在心里是一个非常强烈的反对者沃尔特爵士进行第二场比赛。你知道，必须允许她成为婚姻的支持者；而且（因为自我会打扰）谁能说，在沃利斯夫人的推荐下，她可能没有参加下一届埃利奥特夫人的梦想？

‘I am very glad to know all this,’ said Anne, after a little thoughtfulness. ‘It will be more painful to me in some respects to be in company with him, but I shall know better what to do. My line of conduct will be more direct. Mr Elliot is evidently a disingenuous, artificial, worldly man, who has never had any better principle to guide him than selfishness.’
“我很高兴知道这一切，”安妮想了一会儿后说道。 “在某些方面，和他在一起对我来说会更痛苦，但我会更知道该怎么做。我的行为方式会更加直接。埃利奥特先生显然是一个不诚实、做作、世俗的人，从来没有比自私更好的原则来指导他。

But Mr Elliot was not done with. Mrs Smith had been carried away from her first direction, and Anne had forgotten, in the interest of her own family concerns, how much had been originally implied against him; but her attention was now called to the explanation of those first hints, and she listened to a recital which, if it did not perfectly justify the unqualified bitterness of Mrs Smith, proved him to have been very unfeeling in his conduct towards her; very deficient both in justice and compassion.
但埃利奥特先生并没有就此结束。史密斯夫人已经偏离了她最初的方向，而安妮为了她自己的家庭利益，也忘记了最初对他有多少暗示。但她的注意力现在被吸引到对那些最初暗示的解释上，她听了一段叙述，如果这不能完全证明史密斯夫人无条件的痛苦，那就证明他对她的行为非常无情；而且，她对她的行为感到非常无情。非常缺乏正义感和同情心。

She learned that (the intimacy between them continuing unimpaired by Mr Elliot’s marriage) they had been as before always together, and Mr Elliot had led his friend into expenses much beyond his fortune. Mrs Smith did not want to take blame to herself, and was most tender of throwing any on her husband; but Anne could collect that their income had never been equal to their style of living, and that from the first there had been a great deal of general and joint extravagance. From his wife’s account of him she could discern Mr Smith to have been a man of warm feelings, easy temper, careless habits, and not strong understanding, much more amiable than his friend, and very unlike him, led by him, and probably despised by him. Mr Elliot, raised by his marriage to great affluence, and disposed to every gratification of pleasure and vanity which could be commanded without involving himself, (for with all his self-indulgence he had become a prudent man), and beginning to be rich, just as his friend ought to have found himself to be poor, seemed to have had no concern at all for that friend’s probable finances, but, on the contrary, had been prompting and encouraging expenses which could end only in ruin; and the Smiths accordingly had been ruined.
她了解到（他们之间的亲密关系并未因埃利奥特先生的婚姻而受到损害）他们一如既往地在一起，埃利奥特先生导致他的朋友花费了远远超出他财产的开支。史密斯夫人不想把责任归咎于自己，她很温柔地把责任归咎于她的丈夫。但安妮可以看出，他们的收入从来都与他们的生活方式不相称，而且从一开始就有大量普遍的、共同的铺张浪费。从他妻子对他的描述中，她可以看出史密斯先生是一个感情温暖、脾气暴躁、习惯粗心、理解力不强的人，比他的朋友和蔼可亲，但又很不像他，受他领导，可能还被人鄙视。由他。埃利奥特先生因婚姻而成长为一个非常富裕的人，他倾向于满足一切可以在不涉及自己的情况下控制的快乐和虚荣（因为他完全自我放纵，他已成为一个谨慎的人），并开始变得富有，正如他的朋友应该发现自己很穷一样，他似乎根本不关心那个朋友可能的财务状况，相反，他一直在促使和鼓励支出，而这些支出最终只会导致破产；史密斯一家因此破产了。

The husband had died just in time to be spared the full knowledge of it. They had previously known embarrassments enough to try the friendship of their friends, and to prove that Mr Elliot’s had better not be tried; but it was not till his death that the wretched state of his affairs was fully known. With a confidence in Mr Elliot’s regard, more creditable to his feelings than his judgement, Mr Smith had appointed him the executor of his will; but Mr Elliot would not act, and the difficulties and distress which this refusal had heaped on her, in addition to the inevitable sufferings of her situation, had been such as could not be related without anguish of spirit, or listened to without corresponding indignation.
丈夫刚刚去世，没有完全了解这件事。他们以前已经知道了足够的尴尬，足以考验他们朋友的友谊，并证明埃利奥特先生的友谊最好不要受到考验。但直到他死后，人们才完全了解他的悲惨处境。史密斯先生对埃利奥特先生的态度充满信心，更相信他的感情而不是他的判断，因此任命他为遗嘱执行人。但埃利奥特先生不愿采取行动，这种拒绝给她带来的困难和痛苦，加上她的处境不可避免的痛苦，是无法在没有精神痛苦的情况下讲述的，或者在没有相应愤慨的情况下聆听的。

Anne was shewn some letters of his on the occasion, answers to urgent applications from Mrs Smith, which all breathed the same stern resolution of not engaging in a fruitless trouble, and, under a cold civility, the same hard-hearted indifference to any of the evils it might bring on her. It was a dreadful picture of ingratitude and inhumanity; and Anne felt, at some moments, that no flagrant open crime could have been worse. She had a great deal to listen to; all the particulars of past sad scenes, all the minutiae of distress upon distress, which in former conversations had been merely hinted at, were dwelt on now with a natural indulgence. Anne could perfectly comprehend the exquisite relief, and was only the more inclined to wonder at the composure of her friend’s usual state of mind.
当时有人向安妮展示了他的几封信，是对史密斯夫人紧急申请的答复，这些信件都表现出同样的坚定决心，即不卷入一场徒劳的麻烦，并且在冷漠的礼貌下，对任何人都表现出同样的冷酷无情的冷漠。它可能给她带来的邪恶。这是一幅忘恩负义、不人道的可怕景象。安妮有时觉得，再没有比这更严重的公然公开犯罪了。她有很多话要听。过去悲伤场景的所有细节，所有痛苦的细节，在以前的谈话中只是暗示的，现在都以一种自然的放纵来详述。安妮完全能够理解这种微妙的解脱，并且更倾向于对她朋友平时的平静心态感到惊讶。

There was one circumstance in the history of her grievances of particular irritation. She had good reason to believe that some property of her husband in the West Indies, which had been for many years under a sort of sequestration for the payment of its own incumbrances, might be recoverable by proper measures; and this property, though not large, would be enough to make her comparatively rich. But there was nobody to stir in it. Mr Elliot would do nothing, and she could do nothing herself, equally disabled from personal exertion by her state of bodily weakness, and from employing others by her want of money. She had no natural connexions to assist her even with their counsel, and she could not afford to purchase the assistance of the law. This was a cruel aggravation of actually straitened means. To feel that she ought to be in better circumstances, that a little trouble in the right place might do it, and to fear that delay might be even weakening her claims, was hard to bear.
在她的冤屈经历中，有一次特别令人恼火。她有充分的理由相信，她丈夫在西印度群岛的一些财产多年来一直被扣押，以支付自己的产权负担，可以通过适当的措施收回；而这笔财产虽然不多，但也足够她比较富有了。但没有人在里面搅动。埃利奥特先生什么也不做，她自己也无能为力，同样因为身体虚弱而无法进行个人活动，也因为缺钱而无法雇用他人。即使有他们的建议，她也没有任何自然关系可以帮助她，而且她也无力购买法律的帮助。这是对实际拮据手段的残酷加剧。觉得她应该处于更好的环境中，在适当的地方遇到一点小麻烦就可以做到这一点，并且担心拖延甚至可能削弱她的主张，这令人难以忍受。

It was on this point that she had hoped to engage Anne’s good offices with Mr Elliot. She had previously, in the anticipation of their marriage, been very apprehensive of losing her friend by it; but on being assured that he could have made no attempt of that nature, since he did not even know her to be in Bath, it immediately occurred, that something might be done in her favour by the influence of the woman he loved, and she had been hastily preparing to interest Anne’s feelings, as far as the observances due to Mr Elliot’s character would allow, when Anne’s refutation of the supposed engagement changed the face of everything; and while it took from her the new-formed hope of succeeding in the object of her first anxiety, left her at least the comfort of telling the whole story her own way.
正是在这一点上，她希望安妮能够与埃利奥特先生进行斡旋。此前，在期待他们的婚姻时，她非常担心会因此而失去她的朋友；但现在，她已经意识到了这一点。但当他确信他不可能做出这种性质的尝试，因为他甚至不知道她在巴斯时，立即发生了，在他所爱的女人的影响下，可能会做出一些对她有利的事情，而她正当埃利奥特先生的性格所允许的情况下，她正匆忙地准备引起安妮的感情，这时安妮对所谓订婚的反驳改变了一切的面貌；虽然这夺走了她实现最初焦虑的目标的新希望，但至少让她以自己的方式讲述整个故事感到安心。

After listening to this full description of Mr Elliot, Anne could not but express some surprise at Mrs Smith’s having spoken of him so favourably in the beginning of their conversation. ‘She had seemed to recommend and praise him!’
听完对埃利奥特先生的完整描述后，安妮对史密斯夫人在谈话一开始就对他如此称赞表示惊讶。 “她似乎在推荐和赞扬他！”

‘My dear,’ was Mrs Smith’s reply, ‘there was nothing else to be done. I considered your marrying him as certain, though he might not yet have made the offer, and I could no more speak the truth of him, than if he had been your husband. My heart bled for you, as I talked of happiness; and yet he is sensible, he is agreeable, and with such a woman as you, it was not absolutely hopeless. He was very unkind to his first wife. They were wretched together. But she was too ignorant and giddy for respect, and he had never loved her. I was willing to hope that you must fare better.’
“亲爱的，”史密斯夫人回答道，“没有别的办法了。”我认为你嫁给他是肯定的，尽管他可能还没有提出求婚，而且我无法说出他的真相，就像他是你的丈夫一样。当我谈到幸福时，我的心为你流血；但他是明智的，他是令人愉快的，和你这样的女人在一起，并不是绝对没有希望的。他对他的第一任妻子非常不友善。他们在一起很不幸。但她太无知、太轻浮，不值得尊重，而他从来没有爱过她。我愿意希望你能过得更好。

Anne could just acknowledge within herself such a possibility of having been induced to marry him, as made her shudder at the idea of the misery which must have followed. It was just possible that she might have been persuaded by Lady Russell! And under such a supposition, which would have been most miserable, when time had disclosed all, too late?
安妮只能承认自己有可能被诱嫁给他，一想到随之而来的痛苦，她就不寒而栗。很有可能，她是被拉塞尔夫人说服了！在这样的假设下，当时间揭露一切时，这将是最悲惨的，为时已晚？

It was very desirable that Lady Russell should be no longer deceived; and one of the concluding arrangements of this important conference, which carried them through the greater part of the morning, was, that Anne had full liberty to communicate to her friend everything relative to Mrs Smith, in which his conduct was involved.
罗素夫人不再受骗真是太好了。这次重要会议让他们度过了上午的大部分时间，最后的安排之一是，安妮有充分的自由向她的朋友传达与史密斯夫人有关的一切，其中涉及他的行为。

Chapter 22
第22章

Anne went home to think over all that she had heard. In one point, her feelings were relieved by this knowledge of Mr Elliot. There was no longer anything of tenderness due to him. He stood as opposed to Captain Wentworth, in all his own unwelcome obtrusiveness; and the evil of his attentions last night, the irremediable mischief he might have done, was considered with sensations unqualified, unperplexed. Pity for him was all over. But this was the only point of relief. In every other respect, in looking around her, or penetrating forward, she saw more to distrust and to apprehend. She was concerned for the disappointment and pain Lady Russell would be feeling; for the mortifications which must be hanging over her father and sister, and had all the distress of foreseeing many evils, without knowing how to avert any one of them. She was most thankful for her own knowledge of him. She had never considered herself as entitled to reward for not slighting an old friend like Mrs Smith, but here was a reward indeed springing from it! Mrs Smith had been able to tell her what no one else could have done. Could the knowledge have been extended through her family? But this was a vain idea. She must talk to Lady Russell, tell her, consult with her, and having done her best, wait the event with as much composure as possible; and after all, her greatest want of composure would be in that quarter of the mind which could not be opened to Lady Russell; in that flow of anxieties and fears which must be all to herself.
安妮回家思考她所听到的一切。有一次，了解埃利奥特先生后，她的心情得到了缓解。不再有任何属于他的温柔。他与温特沃斯上尉站在对立面，因为他的唐突态度令人不受欢迎。昨晚他的邪恶关注，他可能造成的无法挽回的恶作剧，被认为是无条件的，毫无困惑的。对他的怜悯已经结束了。但这是唯一可以松一口气的地方。在其他方面，无论是环顾四周还是向前看，她都看到了更多的不信任和理解。她担心拉塞尔夫人会感到失望和痛苦；因为她的父亲和妹妹必定承受着屈辱，她预见到了许多不幸，但却不知道如何避免其中任何一件，因此感到非常痛苦。她最庆幸自己对他的了解。她从来不认为自己有资格因为没有轻视史密斯夫人这样的老朋友而获得奖励，但这确实是一种奖励！史密斯夫人能够告诉她其他人无法做到的事情。这些知识可以通过她的家人传播吗？但这是一个徒劳的想法。她必须与拉塞尔夫人交谈，告诉她，与她协商，并尽最大努力，尽可能冷静地等待事件的发生；毕竟，她最需要镇定的地方就是无法向拉塞尔夫人敞开心扉的那部分。在那股焦虑和恐惧的流动中，这一切都必须是她自己的。

She found, on reaching home, that she had, as she intended, escaped seeing Mr Elliot; that he had called and paid them a long morning visit; but hardly had she congratulated herself, and felt safe, when she heard that he was coming again in the evening.
回到家后，她发现自己如愿以偿地没有见到埃利奥特先生。他早上给他们打电话并拜访了他们；但当她听说他晚上会再来时，她刚刚庆幸自己并感到安全。

‘I had not the smallest intention of asking him,’ said Elizabeth, with affected carelessness, ‘but he gave so many hints; so Mrs Clay says, at least.’
“我一点也不想问他，”伊丽莎白假装漫不经心地说，“但他给出了很多暗示；至少克莱夫人是这么说的。”

‘Indeed, I do say it. I never saw anybody in my life spell harder for an invitation. Poor man! I was really in pain for him; for your hard-hearted sister, Miss Anne, seems bent on cruelty.’
‘确实，我确实这么说。我一生中从未见过有人比别人更拼命地拼出邀请函。悲惨的人！我真的为他感到痛苦；因为你的妹妹安妮小姐铁石心肠，似乎一心要残忍。”

‘Oh!’ cried Elizabeth, ‘I have been rather too much used to the game to be soon overcome by a gentleman’s hints. However, when I found how excessively he was regretting that he should miss my father this morning, I gave way immediately, for I would never really omit an opportunity of bring him and Sir Walter together. They appear to so much advantage in company with each other. Each behaving so pleasantly. Mr Elliot looking up with so much respect.’
“哦！”伊丽莎白喊道，“我已经太习惯这个游戏了，不会很快就被一位绅士的暗示所征服。”然而，当我发现他今天早上多么后悔自己应该想念我的父亲时，我立即让步了，因为我永远不会错过让他和沃尔特爵士在一起的机会。他们在彼此的陪伴下显得非常有优势。每个人的举止都那么和蔼可亲。艾略特先生满怀敬意地抬起头来。

‘Quite delightful!’ cried Mrs Clay, not daring, however, to turn her eyes towards Anne. ‘Exactly like father and son! Dear Miss Elliot, may I not say father and son?’
“真令人高兴！”克莱夫人叫道，但她不敢把目光转向安妮。 ‘简直就像父子一样！亲爱的埃利奥特小姐，我可以不说父亲和儿子吗？

‘Oh! I lay no embargo on any body’s words. If you will have such ideas! But, upon my word, I am scarcely sensible of his attentions being beyond those of other men.’
'哦！我不会禁止任何人的言论。如果你也会有这样的想法！但是，据我所知，我几乎没有意识到他的注意力超出了其他人。

‘My dear Miss Elliot!’ exclaimed Mrs Clay, lifting her hands and eyes, and sinking all the rest of her astonishment in a convenient silence.
“我亲爱的埃利奥特小姐！”克莱夫人大声喊道，举起了双手和眼睛，然后把剩下的惊讶都淹没在了一阵沉默之中。

‘Well, my dear Penelope, you need not be so alarmed about him. I did invite him, you know. I sent him away with smiles. When I found he was really going to his friends at Thornberry Park for the whole day to-morrow, I had compassion on him.’
“好吧，我亲爱的佩内洛普，你不必为他如此惊慌。我确实邀请了他，你知道。我笑着送他走。当我发现他明天一整天都要去桑伯里公园见朋友时，我对他产生了同情。

Anne admired the good acting of the friend, in being able to shew such pleasure as she did, in the expectation and in the actual arrival of the very person whose presence must really be interfering with her prime object. It was impossible but that Mrs Clay must hate the sight of Mr Elliot; and yet she could assume a most obliging, placid look, and appear quite satisfied with the curtailed license of devoting herself only half as much to Sir Walter as she would have done otherwise.
安妮钦佩这位朋友的出色表现，她能够表现出如此高兴，她期待着这个人的到来，而这个人的出现确实干扰了她的主要目标。克莱夫人肯定讨厌看到埃利奥特先生，这是不可能的。然而，她可以表现出一种非常友善、平静的表情，并且似乎对受到限制的许可感到非常满意，只将自己奉献给沃尔特爵士的时间只有她本来会做的一半。

To Anne herself it was most distressing to see Mr Elliot enter the room; and quite painful to have him approach and speak to her. She had been used before to feel that he could not be always quite sincere, but now she saw insincerity in everything. His attentive deference to her father, contrasted with his former language, was odious; and when she thought of his cruel conduct towards Mrs Smith, she could hardly bear the sight of his present smiles and mildness, or the sound of his artificial good sentiments.
对安妮来说，看到埃利奥特先生走进房间是最令人痛苦的。让他走近她并与她说话是非常痛苦的。以前她习惯觉得他不可能总是那么真诚，但现在她看到了一切的不真诚。与他以前的语言相比，他对她父亲的殷勤顺从是令人厌恶的。当她想到他对史密斯夫人的残酷行为时，她几乎无法忍受他现在的微笑和温和，或者他假装的善意的声音。

She meant to avoid any such alteration of manners as might provoke a remonstrance on his side. It was a great object to her to escape all enquiry or eclat; but it was her intention to be as decidedly cool to him as might be compatible with their relationship; and to retrace, as quietly as she could, the few steps of unnecessary intimacy she had been gradually led along. She was accordingly more guarded, and more cool, than she had been the night before.
她打算避免任何可能引起他方面抗议的行为方式的改变。对她来说，逃避一切询问或欢呼是一个伟大的目标。但她的目的是在与他们的关系相适应的情况下，对他表现得绝对冷淡。她尽可能安静地回顾她逐渐被引导的那几步不必要的亲密行为。因此，她比前一天晚上更加警惕，也更加冷静。

He wanted to animate her curiosity again as to how and where he could have heard her formerly praised; wanted very much to be gratified by more solicitation; but the charm was broken: he found that the heat and animation of a public room was necessary to kindle his modest cousin’s vanity; he found, at least, that it was not to be done now, by any of those attempts which he could hazard among the too-commanding claims of the others. He little surmised that it was a subject acting now exactly against his interest, bringing immediately to her thoughts all those parts of his conduct which were least excusable.
他想再次激起她的好奇心，想知道他以前是如何、在哪里听到她受到赞扬的。非常希望通过更多的恳求而得到满足；但魅力被打破了：他发现公共房间的热度和活力对于点燃他谦虚的表弟的虚荣心是必要的；至少他发现，现在他不可能在其他人过于居高临下的主张中冒险进行任何尝试。他几乎没有想到这是一个完全违背他利益的主题，立即让她想起他行为中最不可原谅的那些部分。

She had some satisfaction in finding that he was really going out of Bath the next morning, going early, and that he would be gone the greater part of two days. He was invited again to Camden Place the very evening of his return; but from Thursday to Saturday evening his absence was certain. It was bad enough that a Mrs Clay should be always before her; but that a deeper hypocrite should be added to their party, seemed the destruction of everything like peace and comfort. It was so humiliating to reflect on the constant deception practised on her father and Elizabeth; to consider the various sources of mortification preparing for them! Mrs Clay’s selfishness was not so complicate nor so revolting as his; and Anne would have compounded for the marriage at once, with all its evils, to be clear of Mr Elliot’s subtleties in endeavouring to prevent it.
当她发现他第二天早上真的要离开巴斯时，她感到有些满足，而且走得很早，而且他将在两天的大部分时间里离开。回国当晚，他再次被邀请前往卡姆登广场。但从周四到周六晚上他肯定缺席。克莱夫人总是出现在她面前，这已经够糟糕的了。但他们的党派中又增加了一个更深的伪君子，这似乎破坏了和平与舒适等一切。想到她的父亲和伊丽莎白不断受到欺骗，真是太丢脸了。考虑一下为他们准备的各种屈辱的来源！克莱夫人的自私并不像他那么复杂，也不像他那么令人反感。安妮会立即为这桩婚姻而复合，尽管这桩婚姻有种种弊端，但如果她能看清埃利奥特先生试图阻止这桩婚姻的狡猾手段。

On Friday morning she meant to go very early to Lady Russell, and accomplish the necessary communication; and she would have gone directly after breakfast, but that Mrs Clay was also going out on some obliging purpose of saving her sister trouble, which determined her to wait till she might be safe from such a companion. She saw Mrs Clay fairly off, therefore, before she began to talk of spending the morning in Rivers Street.
周五早上，她打算很早就去见拉塞尔夫人，并完成必要的沟通；但她并没有这么做。她本想吃完早饭就直接走，但克莱夫人出去也是出于某种善意的目的，免得她妹妹麻烦，这决定她要等到她可以安全地摆脱这样一个同伴的时候。因此，在克莱夫人开始谈论要在里弗斯街度过一个上午之前，她已经和克莱夫人见过面了。

‘Very well,’ said Elizabeth, ‘I have nothing to send but my love. Oh! you may as well take back that tiresome book she would lend me, and pretend I have read it through. I really cannot be plaguing myself for ever with all the new poems and states of the nation that come out. Lady Russell quite bores one with her new publications. You need not tell her so, but I thought her dress hideous the other night. I used to think she had some taste in dress, but I was ashamed of her at the concert. Something so formal and arrange in her air! and she sits so upright! My best love, of course.’
“很好，”伊丽莎白说，“除了我的爱，我没有什么可送的。”哦！你不妨把她借给我的那本令人厌烦的书拿回来，假装我已经读完了。我真的不能永远用所有新的诗歌和国家的状态来困扰自己。拉塞尔夫人对她的新出版物感到非常厌烦。你不必告诉她，但那天晚上我觉得她的衣服很难看。我本来以为她穿衣品味还不错，但在演唱会上我却为她感到羞愧。她的气质是如此正式和安排！而且她坐得那么直！当然是我最好的爱。

‘And mine,’ added Sir Walter. ‘Kindest regards. And you may say, that I mean to call upon her soon. Make a civil message; but I shall only leave my card. Morning visits are never fair by women at her time of life, who make themselves up so little. If she would only wear rouge she would not be afraid of being seen; but last time I called, I observed the blinds were let down immediately.’
“还有我的，”沃尔特爵士补充道。 '最亲切的问候。你可能会说，我打算很快就去拜访她。发表文明信息；但我只会留下我的名片。对于这个年纪的女性来说，早上的拜访从来都不公平，因为她们化妆得很少。如果只涂胭脂，就不怕被人看见；但上次我打电话时，我发现百叶窗立即放下了。

While her father spoke, there was a knock at the door. Who could it be? Anne, remembering the preconcerted visits, at all hours, of Mr Elliot, would have expected him, but for his known engagement seven miles off. After the usual period of suspense, the usual sounds of approach were heard, and ‘Mr and Mrs Charles Musgrove’ were ushered into the room.
正当她父亲说话的时候，有人敲门。会是谁呢？安妮记得埃利奥特先生每时每刻都会来访，如果不是他在七英里外有一场众所周知的订婚，她本来会期待他的。在通常的悬念之后，听到了通常的接近声，“查尔斯·穆斯格罗夫先生和夫人”被引入房间。

Surprise was the strongest emotion raised by their appearance; but Anne was really glad to see them; and the others were not so sorry but that they could put on a decent air of welcome; and as soon as it became clear that these, their nearest relations, were not arrived with an views of accommodation in that house, Sir Walter and Elizabeth were able to rise in cordiality, and do the honours of it very well. They were come to Bath for a few days with Mrs Musgrove, and were at the White Hart. So much was pretty soon understood; but till Sir Walter and Elizabeth were walking Mary into the other drawing-room, and regaling themselves with her admiration, Anne could not draw upon Charles’s brain for a regular history of their coming, or an explanation of some smiling hints of particular business, which had been ostentatiously dropped by Mary, as well as of some apparent confusion as to whom their party consisted of.
惊讶是他们的出现所引发的最强烈的情绪。但安妮很高兴见到他们。其他人并没有那么抱歉，但他们可以表现出一种体面的欢迎气氛。沃尔特爵士和伊丽莎白一得知他们最亲近的亲戚并没有在这所房子里住宿的想法，就热情地起身，并很好地履行了这一职责。他们和穆斯格罗夫夫人一起来巴斯待了几天，并住在白鹿酒店。很快就明白了这么多。但直到沃尔特爵士和伊丽莎白领着玛丽走进另一间客厅，并用她的钦佩来满足自己时，安妮才无法利用查尔斯的大脑来了解他们来访的常规历史，或者对特定事务的一些微笑暗示进行解释。玛丽故意放弃了，而且对于他们的队伍由谁组成也有些明显的困惑。

She then found that it consisted of Mrs Musgrove, Henrietta, and Captain Harville, beside their two selves. He gave her a very plain, intelligible account of the whole; a narration in which she saw a great deal of most characteristic proceeding. The scheme had received its first impulse by Captain Harville’s wanting to come to Bath on business. He had begun to talk of it a week ago; and by way of doing something, as shooting was over, Charles had proposed coming with him, and Mrs Harville had seemed to like the idea of it very much, as an advantage to her husband; but Mary could not bear to be left, and had made herself so unhappy about it, that for a day or two everything seemed to be in suspense, or at an end. But then, it had been taken up by his father and mother. His mother had some old friends in Bath whom she wanted to see; it was thought a good opportunity for Henrietta to come and buy wedding-clothes for herself and her sister; and, in short, it ended in being his mother’s party, that everything might be comfortable and easy to Captain Harville; and he and Mary were included in it by way of general convenience. They had arrived late the night before. Mrs Harville, her children, and Captain Benwick, remained with Mr Musgrove and Louisa at Uppercross.
然后她发现里面有穆斯格罗夫夫人、亨丽埃塔和哈维尔船长，旁边还有他们两个。他向她简单易懂地讲述了整个事情的经过。她在叙述中看到了许多最具特色的过程。这个计划的最初推动力来自于哈维尔船长想要来巴斯出差。他一周前就开始谈论这件事了。拍摄结束后，为了做点什么，查尔斯提议和他一起去，哈维尔夫人似乎非常喜欢这个主意，因为这对她丈夫来说是一个优势；但玛丽无法忍受离开，她对此感到非常不高兴，以至于有一两天，一切似乎都悬而未决，或者结束了。但后来，这件事就被他的父亲和母亲接手了。他的母亲在巴斯有一些老朋友，她想见见他们。人们认为这是亨丽埃塔为自己和妹妹购买结婚礼服的好机会。简而言之，这最终成为了他母亲的聚会，这样对哈维尔船长来说，一切都会变得舒适和轻松。他和玛丽也是出于普遍的方便而被纳入其中的。他们前一天晚上很晚才到达。哈维尔夫人、她的孩子们以及本威克船长与穆斯格罗夫先生和路易莎一起留在阿珀克罗斯。

Anne’s only surprise was, that affairs should be in forwardness enough for Henrietta’s wedding-clothes to be talked of. She had imagined such difficulties of fortune to exist there as must prevent the marriage from being near at hand; but she learned from Charles that, very recently, (since Mary’s last letter to herself), Charles Hayter had been applied to by a friend to hold a living for a youth who could not possibly claim it under many years; and that on the strength of his present income, with almost a certainty of something more permanent long before the term in question, the two families had consented to the young people’s wishes, and that their marriage was likely to take place in a few months, quite as soon as Louisa’s. ‘And a very good living it was,’ Charles added: ‘only five-and-twenty miles from Uppercross, and in a very fine country: fine part of Dorsetshire. In the centre of some of the best preserves in the kingdom, surrounded by three great proprietors, each more careful and jealous than the other; and to two of the three at least, Charles Hayter might get a special recommendation. Not that he will value it as he ought,’ he observed, ‘Charles is too cool about sporting. That’s the worst of him.’
安妮唯一感到惊讶的是，事情进展得足够快，以至于可以谈论亨丽埃塔的结婚礼服了。她曾想象那里的命运会如此困难，必然会阻碍婚姻的临近。但她从查尔斯那里得知，最近（自从玛丽给自己写了最后一封信之后），一位朋友向查尔斯·海特提出了申请，让他为一个年轻人谋生，而这个年轻人在很多年后都无法领取这份薪水。就他目前的收入而言，几乎可以肯定的是，在有关任期之前很久，两家人就已经同意了年轻人的愿望，他们的婚姻可能会在几个月内举行，和路易莎的一样快。 “那是一种非常美好的生活，”查尔斯补充道：“距离厄珀克罗斯只有五二十英里，而且在一个非常美丽的国家：多塞特郡的一个很好的部分。位于王国一些最好的保护区的中心，周围环绕着三个大业主，每个人都比另一个人更加小心和嫉妒；至少对于三人中的两人来说，查尔斯·海特可能会得到特别推荐。并不是说他会像他应该的那样重视它，”他观察到，“查尔斯对运动太酷了。这是他最糟糕的地方。

‘I am extremely glad, indeed,’ cried Anne, ‘particularly glad that this should happen; and that of two sisters, who both deserve equally well, and who have always been such good friends, the pleasant prospect of one should not be dimming those of the other— that they should be so equal in their prosperity and comfort. I hope your father and mother are quite happy with regard to both.’
“确实，我非常高兴，”安妮喊道，“特别高兴这件事发生了；”两姐妹的命运同样值得，而且一直都是好朋友，一个人的美好前景不应该影响另一个人的前景——她们在富裕和舒适方面应该是平等的。我希望你的父亲和母亲对这两件事都很满意。

‘Oh! yes. My father would be well pleased if the gentlemen were richer, but he has no other fault to find. Money, you know, coming down with money—two daughters at once—it cannot be a very agreeable operation, and it streightens him as to many things. However, I do not mean to say they have not a right to it. It is very fit they should have daughters’ shares; and I am sure he has always been a very kind, liberal father to me. Mary does not above half like Henrietta’s match. She never did, you know. But she does not do him justice, nor think enough about Winthrop. I cannot make her attend to the value of the property. It is a very fair match, as times go; and I have liked Charles Hayter all my life, and I shall not leave off now.’
'哦！是的。如果先生们更富有的话，我父亲会很高兴，但他也没有其他的毛病可找。钱，你知道，随着钱而来——同时生下两个女儿——这并不是一件很令人愉快的事情，而且这让他在很多事情上变得更加坚强。然而，我并不是说他们没有权利。他们拥有女儿的股份是非常合适的；我确信他对我来说一直是一位非常仁慈、开明的父亲。玛丽不太喜欢亨丽埃塔的婚姻。她从来没有这样做过，你知道。但她没有公正地对待他，也没有充分考虑温斯罗普。我无法让她关注房产的价值。随着时间的推移，这是一场非常公平的比赛；我一生都喜欢查尔斯·海特，现在我不会离开。

‘Such excellent parents as Mr and Mrs Musgrove,’ exclaimed Anne, ‘should be happy in their children’s marriages. They do everything to confer happiness, I am sure. What a blessing to young people to be in such hands! Your father and mother seem so totally free from all those ambitious feelings which have led to so much misconduct and misery, both in young and old. I hope you think Louisa perfectly recovered now?’
“像穆斯格罗夫夫妇这样优秀的父母，”安妮感叹道，“他们的孩子的婚姻应该是幸福的。”我确信，他们所做的一切都是为了带来幸福。年轻人能得到这样的掌管，是何等的福气啊！你的父母似乎完全摆脱了那些野心勃勃的感觉，这些感觉导致了年轻人和老年人的不当行为和痛苦。我希望你认为路易莎现在已经完全康复了吗？

He answered rather hesitatingly, ‘Yes, I believe I do; very much recovered; but she is altered; there is no running or jumping about, no laughing or dancing; it is quite different. If one happens only to shut the door a little hard, she starts and wriggles like a young dab-chick in the water; and Benwick sits at her elbow, reading verses, or whispering to her, all day long.’
他相当犹豫地回答：“是的，我相信我是这样；”恢复得很好；但她已经改变了；没有奔跑或跳跃，没有欢笑或舞蹈；这是完全不同的。只要有人把门关得稍微用力一点，她就会惊动起来，像水里的小雏鸡一样蠕动。本威克整天坐在她身边，念诗，或者对她低声说话。

Anne could not help laughing. ‘That cannot be much to your taste, I know,’ said she; ‘but I do believe him to be an excellent young man.’
安妮忍不住笑了起来。 “我知道，这不太合你的口味，”她说。 “但我确实相信他是一个优秀的年轻人。”

‘To be sure he is. Nobody doubts it; and I hope you do not think I am so illiberal as to want every man to have the same objects and pleasures as myself. I have a great value for Benwick; and when one can but get him to talk, he has plenty to say. His reading has done him no harm, for he has fought as well as read. He is a brave fellow. I got more acquainted with him last Monday than ever I did before. We had a famous set-to at rat-hunting all the morning in my father’s great barns; and he played his part so well that I have liked him the better ever since.’
” “当然他是。没有人怀疑这一点；我希望你不要认为我如此不自由，以至于希望每个人都拥有与我相同的目标和快乐。我对本威克非常看重；当人们只能让他说话时，他就有很多话要说。他的读书并没有给他带来任何伤害，因为他既读书又战斗。他是一个勇敢的人。上周一我对他的了解比以往任何时候都多。整个上午，我们在父亲的大谷仓里进行了一场著名的捕鼠活动。他扮演的角色非常出色，从那以后我就更加喜欢他了。”

Here they were interrupted by the absolute necessity of Charles’s following the others to admire mirrors and china; but Anne had heard enough to understand the present state of Uppercross, and rejoice in its happiness; and though she sighed as she rejoiced, her sigh had none of the ill-will of envy in it. She would certainly have risen to their blessings if she could, but she did not want to lessen theirs.
说到这里，他们被查尔斯必须跟着其他人欣赏镜子和瓷器打断了。但安妮已经听够了，了解了厄珀克罗斯的现状，并为它的幸福感到高兴。尽管她欣喜地叹了口气，但她的叹息中并没有嫉妒的恶意。如果可以的话，她当然会得到他们的祝福，但她不想减少他们的祝福。

The visit passed off altogether in high good humour. Mary was in excellent spirits, enjoying the gaiety and the change, and so well satisfied with the journey in her mother-in-law’s carriage with four horses, and with her own complete independence of Camden Place, that she was exactly in a temper to admire everything as she ought, and enter most readily into all the superiorities of the house, as they were detailed to her. She had no demands on her father or sister, and her consequence was just enough increased by their handsome drawing-rooms.
这次访问完全在愉快的气氛中进行。玛丽心情很好，享受着欢乐和变化，对乘坐婆婆的四匹马马车的旅程感到非常满意，而且她自己完全独立于卡姆登广场，所以她完全有心情去她应该欣赏一切，并且最容易地了解这座房子的所有优越之处，正如它们向她详细介绍的那样。她对父亲和妹妹没有任何要求，他们漂亮的客厅足以增加她的影响力。

Elizabeth was, for a short time, suffering a good deal. She felt that Mrs Musgrove and all her party ought to be asked to dine with them; but she could not bear to have the difference of style, the reduction of servants, which a dinner must betray, witnessed by those who had been always so inferior to the Elliots of Kellynch. It was a struggle between propriety and vanity; but vanity got the better, and then Elizabeth was happy again. These were her internal persuasions: ‘Old fashioned notions; country hospitality; we do not profess to give dinners; few people in Bath do; Lady Alicia never does; did not even ask her own sister’s family, though they were here a month: and I dare say it would be very inconvenient to Mrs Musgrove; put her quite out of her way. I am sure she would rather not come; she cannot feel easy with us. I will ask them all for an evening; that will be much better; that will be a novelty and a treat. They have not seen two such drawing rooms before. They will be delighted to come to-morrow evening. It shall be a regular party, small, but most elegant.’ And this satisfied Elizabeth: and when the invitation was given to the two present, and promised for the absent, Mary was as completely satisfied. She was particularly asked to meet Mr Elliot, and be introduced to Lady Dalrymple and Miss Carteret, who were fortunately already engaged to come; and she could not have received a more gratifying attention. Miss Elliot was to have the honour of calling on Mrs Musgrove in the course of the morning; and Anne walked off with Charles and Mary, to go and see her and Henrietta directly.
伊丽莎白在短时间内遭受了很大的痛苦。她觉得应该请莫斯格罗夫夫人和她的一行人与他们一起吃饭；但她无法忍受风格的差异和仆人的减少，而晚餐必然会暴露出这一点，那些一直不如凯林奇埃利奥特的人见证了这一点。这是一场礼节与虚荣的斗争；但虚荣心占了上风，伊丽莎​​白又高兴起来了。这些是她内心的劝说：“老式的观念；乡村热情好客；我们并不声称提供晚餐；巴斯很少有人这样做；艾丽西亚夫人从来不这样做；甚至没有问过她姐姐的家人，尽管他们已经来了一个月了：我敢说这对莫斯格罗夫夫人来说会很不方便；让她完全不受影响。我确信她宁愿不来；她和我们在一起感觉不轻松。我会请他们所有人共度一个晚上；那会好得多；这将是一种新奇和享受。他们以前从未见过两个这样的客厅。他们明天晚上会很高兴来。这将是一个定期的聚会，规模虽小，但非常优雅。”这让伊丽莎白很满意：当向在场的两人发出邀请并向缺席的人承诺时，玛丽也完全满意。她被特别邀请去见埃利奥特先生，并被介绍给达尔林普尔夫人和卡特雷特小姐，幸运的是，她们已经订婚了。她得到了最令人欣慰的关注。艾略特小姐上午有幸去拜访默斯格罗夫夫人。安妮带着查尔斯和玛丽离开，直接去见她和亨利埃塔。

Her plan of sitting with Lady Russell must give way for the present. They all three called in Rivers Street for a couple of minutes; but Anne convinced herself that a day’s delay of the intended communication could be of no consequence, and hastened forward to the White Hart, to see again the friends and companions of the last autumn, with an eagerness of good-will which many associations contributed to form.
她与拉塞尔夫人坐在一起的计划必须暂时放弃。他们三人都到里弗斯街待了几分钟。但安妮说服自己，预定的通讯延迟一天不会有什么后果，她急忙前往白鹿，再次见到去年秋天的朋友和同伴，带着许多联想所促成的善意的渴望。形式。

They found Mrs Musgrove and her daughter within, and by themselves, and Anne had the kindest welcome from each. Henrietta was exactly in that state of recently-improved views, of fresh-formed happiness, which made her full of regard and interest for everybody she had ever liked before at all; and Mrs Musgrove’s real affection had been won by her usefulness when they were in distress. It was a heartiness, and a warmth, and a sincerity which Anne delighted in the more, from the sad want of such blessings at home. She was entreated to give them as much of her time as possible, invited for every day and all day long, or rather claimed as part of the family; and, in return, she naturally fell into all her wonted ways of attention and assistance, and on Charles’s leaving them together, was listening to Mrs Musgrove’s history of Louisa, and to Henrietta’s of herself, giving opinions on business, and recommendations to shops; with intervals of every help which Mary required, from altering her ribbon to settling her accounts; from finding her keys, and assorting her trinkets, to trying to convince her that she was not ill-used by anybody; which Mary, well amused as she generally was, in her station at a window overlooking the entrance to the Pump Room, could not but have her moments of imagining.
他们发现默斯格罗夫夫人和她的女儿就在里面，而且安妮也受到了两人最热情的欢迎。亨丽埃塔正是处于一种新近改善的观点、新形成的幸福状态，这使她对她以前喜欢过的每个人都充满了尊重和兴趣。穆斯格罗夫夫人真正的感情是因为她在他们陷入困境时的有用性而赢得的。这是一种真挚、温暖和真诚，安妮因为家里缺少这样的祝福而感到更加高兴。他们恳求她给他们尽可能多的时间，邀请她每天、整天都来，或者更确切地说，声称她是家庭的一部分；作为回报，她自然而然地以她惯常的方式给予关注和帮助，在查尔斯离开他们的时候，她正在听莫斯格罗夫夫人讲述路易莎的故事，还有亨利埃塔自己的故事，对生意提出意见，对商店提出建议；玛丽需要的每项帮助，从更换丝带到结算账目，都是间歇性的；从找到她的钥匙、整理她的小饰品，到试图让她相信她没有被任何人虐待；玛丽，虽然她平时很开心，但站在俯瞰泵房入口的窗户前，却忍不住浮想联翩。

A morning of thorough confusion was to be expected. A large party in an hotel ensured a quick-changing, unsettled scene. One five minutes brought a note, the next a parcel; and Anne had not been there half an hour, when their dining-room, spacious as it was, seemed more than half filled: a party of steady old friends were seated around Mrs Musgrove, and Charles came back with Captains Harville and Wentworth. The appearance of the latter could not be more than the surprise of the moment. It was impossible for her to have forgotten to feel that this arrival of their common friends must be soon bringing them together again. Their last meeting had been most important in opening his feelings; she had derived from it a delightful conviction; but she feared from his looks, that the same unfortunate persuasion, which had hastened him away from the Concert Room, still governed. He did not seem to want to be near enough for conversation.
一个早上的混乱是可以预料的。酒店里的一场大型聚会确保了场面瞬息万变、不稳定。前五分钟带来一张纸条，接下来一个包裹；安妮到那里还不到半个小时，他们的餐厅虽然宽敞，但似乎已经坐满了一半以上：一群老朋友围坐在默斯格罗夫夫人周围，查尔斯则带着哈维尔船长和温特沃斯船长回来了。后者的出现，绝对是令人惊讶的一瞬间。她不可能忘记，她们共同朋友的到来一定很快会让她们再次聚在一起。他们的最后一次会面对于打开他的感情来说是最重要的。她从中得到了一个令人愉快的信念。但从他的表情来看，她担心，促使他离开音乐厅的同样不幸的劝说仍然在支配着他。他似乎不想靠得足够近来交谈。

She tried to be calm, and leave things to take their course, and tried to dwell much on this argument of rational dependence:— ‘Surely, if there be constant attachment on each side, our hearts must understand each other ere long. We are not boy and girl, to be captiously irritable, misled by every moment’s inadvertence, and wantonly playing with our own happiness.’ And yet, a few minutes afterwards, she felt as if their being in company with each other, under their present circumstances, could only be exposing them to inadvertencies and misconstructions of the most mischievous kind.
她试图保持冷静，让事情顺其自然，并试图深入思考理性依赖的论点：“当然，如果双方不断依恋，我们的心很快就会相互理解。”我们不是男孩女孩，挑剔易怒，被每时每刻的不经意所误导，肆意玩弄自己的幸福。”然而，几分钟后，她感觉他们好像在彼此的陪伴下，在他们的存在下。在这种情况下，只会让他们遭受最恶作剧的疏忽和误解。

‘Anne,’ cried Mary, still at her window, ‘there is Mrs Clay, I am sure, standing under the colonnade, and a gentleman with her. I saw them turn the corner from Bath Street just now. They seemed deep in talk. Who is it? Come, and tell me. Good heavens! I recollect. It is Mr Elliot himself.’
“安妮，”玛丽仍然站在窗前喊道，“我确信克莱夫人就站在柱廊下，旁边还有一位绅士。我刚才看到他们从巴斯街转过街角。他们似乎正在聊得很深。是谁？来吧，告诉我。我的妈呀！我记得。这是埃利奥特先生本人。

‘No,’ cried Anne, quickly, ‘it cannot be Mr Elliot, I assure you. He was to leave Bath at nine this morning, and does not come back till to-morrow.’
“不，”安妮迅速喊道，“我向你保证，这不可能是埃利奥特先生。”他将于今天早上九点离开巴斯，直到明天才回来。

As she spoke, she felt that Captain Wentworth was looking at her, the consciousness of which vexed and embarrassed her, and made her regret that she had said so much, simple as it was.
当她说话的时候，她感觉到温特沃斯上尉正在看着她，这种感觉让她烦恼又尴尬，让她后悔自己说了这么多，尽管事情很简单。

Mary, resenting that she should be supposed not to know her own cousin, began talking very warmly about the family features, and protesting still more positively that it was Mr Elliot, calling again upon Anne to come and look for herself, but Anne did not mean to stir, and tried to be cool and unconcerned. Her distress returned, however, on perceiving smiles and intelligent glances pass between two or three of the lady visitors, as if they believed themselves quite in the secret. It was evident that the report concerning her had spread, and a short pause succeeded, which seemed to ensure that it would now spread farther.
玛丽对她不应该认识自己的表弟感到不满，开始非常热情地谈论家庭特征，并更加积极地抗议说那是埃利奥特先生，再次呼吁安妮来找自己，但安妮没有想要搅动，并试图保持冷静和漠不关心。然而，当两三个女访客之间掠过微笑和聪明的目光时，她的苦恼又回来了，仿佛她们相信自己完全掌握了这个秘密。显然，关于她的报道已经传开，短暂的停顿成功了，这似乎保证了它会传得更远。

‘Do come, Anne’ cried Mary, ‘come and look yourself. You will be too late if you do not make haste. They are parting; they are shaking hands. He is turning away. Not know Mr Elliot, indeed! You seem to have forgot all about Lyme.’
“来吧，安妮，”玛丽喊道，“快来看看你自己吧。”如果你不抓紧时间，就会太晚了。他们正在离别；他们正在握手。他正转身走开。确实不认识埃利奥特先生！你似乎已经忘记了莱姆病的一切。”

To pacify Mary, and perhaps screen her own embarrassment, Anne did move quietly to the window. She was just in time to ascertain that it really was Mr Elliot, which she had never believed, before he disappeared on one side, as Mrs Clay walked quickly off on the other; and checking the surprise which she could not but feel at such an appearance of friendly conference between two persons of totally opposite interest, she calmly said, ‘Yes, it is Mr Elliot, certainly. He has changed his hour of going, I suppose, that is all, or I may be mistaken, I might not attend;’ and walked back to her chair, recomposed, and with the comfortable hope of having acquitted herself well.
为了安抚玛丽，也许也是为了掩饰自己的尴尬，安妮悄悄地走到窗边。她正好及时确定那确实是埃利奥特先生，但她从来不相信这一点，然后他就消失在一侧，而克莱夫人则迅速走开在另一侧；她对两个兴趣完全相反的人之间如此友好的会面感到不禁感到惊讶，平静地说：“是的，当然是埃利奥特先生。”我想他已经改变了去的时间，仅此而已，否则我可能会弄错，我可能不会参加。

The visitors took their leave; and Charles, having civilly seen them off, and then made a face at them, and abused them for coming, began with—
客人们纷纷告辞。查尔斯礼貌地送走他们，然后对他们做了个鬼脸，辱骂他们的到来，开始说——

‘Well, mother, I have done something for you that you will like. I have been to the theatre, and secured a box for to-morrow night. A’n’t I a good boy? I know you love a play; and there is room for us all. It holds nine. I have engaged Captain Wentworth. Anne will not be sorry to join us, I am sure. We all like a play. Have not I done well, mother?’
‘好吧，妈妈，我为你做了一些你会喜欢的事情。我去过剧院，并为明晚订了一个包厢。我不是一个好孩子吗？我知道你喜欢看戏；我们所有人都有空间。它可以容纳九个。我已经与温特沃斯上尉订婚了。我确信安妮不会后悔加入我们。我们都喜欢看戏。妈妈，我做得还不够好吗？

Mrs Musgrove was good humouredly beginning to express her perfect readiness for the play, if Henrietta and all the others liked it, when Mary eagerly interrupted her by exclaiming—
莫斯格罗夫夫人很幽默地开始表达她对这部戏的完美准备，如果亨丽埃塔和其他所有人都喜欢的话，这时玛丽急切地打断了她，大声喊道——

‘Good heavens, Charles! how can you think of such a thing? Take a box for to-morrow night! Have you forgot that we are engaged to Camden Place to-morrow night? and that we were most particularly asked to meet Lady Dalrymple and her daughter, and Mr Elliot, and all the principal family connexions, on purpose to be introduced to them? How can you be so forgetful?’
“天哪，查尔斯！你怎么能想到这种事呢？明天晚上买一盒吧！你忘了我们明天晚上要去卡姆登广场订婚了吗？我们特别被要求会见达尔林普尔夫人和她的女儿、埃利奥特先生以及所有主要的家庭关系，故意把他们介绍给他们？你怎么这么健忘？

‘Phoo! phoo!’ replied Charles, ‘what’s an evening party? Never worth remembering. Your father might have asked us to dinner, I think, if he had wanted to see us. You may do as you like, but I shall go to the play.’
‘噗！噗！”查尔斯回答道，“什么是晚会？永远不值得记住。我想，如果你父亲想见我们，他可能会请我们吃饭。你想怎么做都可以，但我要去看戏。

‘Oh! Charles, I declare it will be too abominable if you do, when you promised to go.’
'哦！查尔斯，我敢说，如果你答应去的话，那就太可恶了。

‘No, I did not promise. I only smirked and bowed, and said the word ‘happy.’ There was no promise.’
‘不，我没有答应。我只是傻笑着鞠躬，说了‘高兴’这个词。没有任何承诺。”

‘But you must go, Charles. It would be unpardonable to fail. We were asked on purpose to be introduced. There was always such a great connexion between the Dalrymples and ourselves. Nothing ever happened on either side that was not announced immediately. We are quite near relations, you know; and Mr Elliot too, whom you ought so particularly to be acquainted with! Every attention is due to Mr Elliot. Consider, my father’s heir: the future representative of the family.’
“但是你必须走，查尔斯。失败是不可原谅的。我们被故意要求介绍。达尔林普一家和我们之间始终有着如此密切的联系。双方都没有发生任何未立即宣布的事情。你知道，我们的关系很亲密；还有埃利奥特先生，你应该特别熟悉他！每一次关注都归功于埃利奥特先生。考虑一下，我父亲的继承人：家庭未来的代表。

‘Don’t talk to me about heirs and representatives,’ cried Charles. ‘I am not one of those who neglect the reigning power to bow to the rising sun. If I would not go for the sake of your father, I should think it scandalous to go for the sake of his heir. What is Mr Elliot to me?’ The careless expression was life to Anne, who saw that Captain Wentworth was all attention, looking and listening with his whole soul; and that the last words brought his enquiring eyes from Charles to herself.
“别跟我谈论继承人和代表，”查尔斯喊道。 “我不是那些忽视统治权力而向初升的太阳鞠躬的人之一。如果我不为了你父亲而去，我会认为为了他的继承人而去是可耻的。艾略特先生对我来说是什么？”这种漫不经心的表情对安妮来说就是生活，她看到温特沃斯上尉全神贯注，全神贯注地看着和听着；最后一句话把他询问的目光从查尔斯身上转移到了她自己身上。

Charles and Mary still talked on in the same style; he, half serious and half jesting, maintaining the scheme for the play, and she, invariably serious, most warmly opposing it, and not omitting to make it known that, however determined to go to Camden Place herself, she should not think herself very well used, if they went to the play without her. Mrs Musgrove interposed.
查尔斯和玛丽仍然以同样的方式交谈。他半严肃半开玩笑地维持着剧本的计划，而她总是严肃地、最热烈地反对它，并且不遗漏地表明，无论她自己多么决心去卡姆登广场，她都不应该认为自己很如果他们不带她去看戏，那就太好了。默斯格罗夫夫人插话道。

‘We had better put it off. Charles, you had much better go back and change the box for Tuesday. It would be a pity to be divided, and we should be losing Miss Anne, too, if there is a party at her father’s; and I am sure neither Henrietta nor I should care at all for the play, if Miss Anne could not be with us.’
“我们最好推迟一下。查尔斯，你最好周二回去更换盒子。分开真是可惜，而且如果安妮小姐父亲家有聚会的话，我们也会失去她。我确信，如果安妮小姐不能和我们在一起，那么亨丽埃塔和我都不会关心这部戏。

Anne felt truly obliged to her for such kindness; and quite as much so for the opportunity it gave her of decidedly saying—
安妮真的很感谢她的善意。同样重要的是，这给了她一个机会，她可以果断地说——

‘If it depended only on my inclination, ma’am, the party at home (excepting on Mary’s account) would not be the smallest impediment. I have no pleasure in the sort of meeting, and should be too happy to change it for a play, and with you. But, it had better not be attempted, perhaps.’ She had spoken it; but she trembled when it was done, conscious that her words were listened to, and daring not even to try to observe their effect.
“如果这仅取决于我的意愿，女士，家里的聚会（玛丽除外）不会是最小的障碍。我对这种会面并不感到高兴，应该很高兴把它改成一场戏，并且和你在一起。但是，也许最好不要尝试。”她已经说过了；她已经说过了。但做完后她浑身发抖，意识到自己的话被人听了，却不敢去观察其效果。

It was soon generally agreed that Tuesday should be the day; Charles only reserving the advantage of still teasing his wife, by persisting that he would go to the play to-morrow if nobody else would.
很快大家就一致认为星期二应该是这一天。查尔斯只是保留了继续取笑他妻子的优势，坚持说如果没有其他人愿意的话，他明天就去看戏。

Captain Wentworth left his seat, and walked to the fire-place; probably for the sake of walking away from it soon afterwards, and taking a station, with less bare-faced design, by Anne.
温特沃斯上尉离开座位，走向壁炉。可能是为了很快离开它，并乘坐安妮设计的不那么露脸的车站。

‘You have not been long enough in Bath,’ said he, ‘to enjoy the evening parties of the place.’
“你在巴斯呆的时间还不够长，”他说，“还没来得及享受这里的晚会。”

‘Oh! no. The usual character of them has nothing for me. I am no card-player.’
'哦！不。他们平常的性格对我来说毫无意义。我不玩牌。

‘You were not formerly, I know. You did not use to like cards; but time makes many changes.’
“我知道，你以前不是。”你过去不喜欢卡片；但时间会带来很多改变。”

‘I am not yet so much changed,’ cried Anne, and stopped, fearing she hardly knew what misconstruction. After waiting a few moments he said, and as if it were the result of immediate feeling, ‘It is a period, indeed! Eight years and a half is a period.’
“我还没有多大改变，”安妮喊道，然后停了下来，担心她几乎不知道什么是误解。等了一会儿，他仿佛是立即感觉到的结果似的说道：“确实，这是一个时期！”八年半是一个时期。

Whether he would have proceeded farther was left to Anne’s imagination to ponder over in a calmer hour; for while still hearing the sounds he had uttered, she was startled to other subjects by Henrietta, eager to make use of the present leisure for getting out, and calling on her companions to lose no time, lest somebody else should come in.
他是否会继续前进，就留给安妮在平静的时候思考。因为当她仍然听到他发出的声音时，她被亨丽埃塔吓到了其他话题，急于利用目前的空闲时间出去，并呼吁她的同伴立即行动，以免有人进来。

They were obliged to move. Anne talked of being perfectly ready, and tried to look it; but she felt that could Henrietta have known the regret and reluctance of her heart in quitting that chair, in preparing to quit the room, she would have found, in all her own sensations for her cousin, in the very security of his affection, wherewith to pity her.
他们被迫搬家。安妮说她已经完全准备好了，并试图看起来像这样。但她觉得，如果亨丽埃塔知道她离开那张椅子、准备离开这个房间时内心的遗憾和不情愿，她就会在她对表弟的所有感觉中，在他的感情中找到安全感，从而来可怜她。

Their preparations, however, were stopped short. Alarming sounds were heard; other visitors approached, and the door was thrown open for Sir Walter and Miss Elliot, whose entrance seemed to give a general chill. Anne felt an instant oppression, and wherever she looked saw symptoms of the same. The comfort, the freedom, the gaiety of the room was over, hushed into cold composure, determined silence, or insipid talk, to meet the heartless elegance of her father and sister. How mortifying to feel that it was so!
然而，他们的准备工作却戛然而止。听到了令人震惊的声音；其他访客走近，门为沃尔特爵士和埃利奥特小姐打开，他们的进来似乎给人一种普遍的寒意。安妮立刻感到一种压抑，无论她看向哪里，都看到了同样的症状。房间里的舒适、自由、欢乐已经结束，陷入冷漠的镇静、坚决的沉默或平淡的谈话，以迎接她父亲和妹妹无情的优雅。感觉是这样，真是令人羞愧！

Her jealous eye was satisfied in one particular. Captain Wentworth was acknowledged again by each, by Elizabeth more graciously than before. She even addressed him once, and looked at him more than once. Elizabeth was, in fact, revolving a great measure. The sequel explained it. After the waste of a few minutes in saying the proper nothings, she began to give the invitation which was to comprise all the remaining dues of the Musgroves. ‘To-morrow evening, to meet a few friends: no formal party.’ It was all said very gracefully, and the cards with which she had provided herself, the ‘Miss Elliot at home,’ were laid on the table, with a courteous, comprehensive smile to all, and one smile and one card more decidedly for Captain Wentworth. The truth was, that Elizabeth had been long enough in Bath to understand the importance of a man of such an air and appearance as his. The past was nothing. The present was that Captain Wentworth would move about well in her drawing-room. The card was pointedly given, and Sir Walter and Elizabeth arose and disappeared.
她嫉妒的目光在某一件事上得到了满足。温特沃斯上尉再次受到了大家的欢迎，伊丽莎白比以前更加亲切了。她甚至对他说过一次话，不止一次地看着他。事实上，伊丽莎白正在采取一项重大措施。续集解释了这一点。在浪费了几分钟的时间说一些适当的闲话之后，她开始发出邀请，其中包括穆斯格罗夫家族所有剩余的会费。 “明天晚上，去见几个朋友：没有正式聚会。”这一切都说得非常优雅，她给自己准备的卡片，“埃利奥特小姐在家”，放在桌子上，上面写着对所有人都彬彬有礼、全面的微笑，对温特沃斯船长来说，一笑一张牌。事实是，伊丽莎白在巴斯呆了足够长的时间，她明白像他这样的神态和外表的男人的重要性。过去什么都不是。礼物是温特沃斯船长可以在她的客厅里自由活动。沃尔特爵士和伊丽莎白明确地给出了卡片，然后起身消失了。

The interruption had been short, though severe, and ease and animation returned to most of those they left as the door shut them out, but not to Anne. She could think only of the invitation she had with such astonishment witnessed, and of the manner in which it had been received; a manner of doubtful meaning, of surprise rather than gratification, of polite acknowledgement rather than acceptance. She knew him; she saw disdain in his eye, and could not venture to believe that he had determined to accept such an offering, as an atonement for all the insolence of the past. Her spirits sank. He held the card in his hand after they were gone, as if deeply considering it.
中断虽然很严重，但时间很短，当门将他们拒之门外时，他们离开的大多数人都恢复了轻松和活力，但安妮却没有。她只能想到她所目睹的那份邀请，以及她收到邀请的方式。这是一种令人怀疑的态度，一种惊讶而不是满足，一种礼貌的承认而不是接受。她认识他；她认识他。她在他眼中看到了轻蔑，不敢相信他决心接受这样的礼物，作为对过去所有无礼行为的赎罪。她的精神一沉。等他们走后，他手里拿着卡片，似乎在深思熟虑。

‘Only think of Elizabeth’s including everybody!’ whispered Mary very audibly. ‘I do not wonder Captain Wentworth is delighted! You see he cannot put the card out of his hand.’
“想想伊丽莎白，包括所有人！”玛丽大声低声说道。 “我毫不奇怪温特沃斯船长会很高兴！你看，他无法将牌从他手中夺走。

Anne caught his eye, saw his cheeks glow, and his mouth form itself into a momentary expression of contempt, and turned away, that she might neither see nor hear more to vex her.
安妮与他的目光对视，看到他的脸颊在发光，他的嘴瞬间露出轻蔑的表情，然后转过身去，以免她看到或听到更多的事情来惹恼她。

The party separated. The gentlemen had their own pursuits, the ladies proceeded on their own business, and they met no more while Anne belonged to them. She was earnestly begged to return and dine, and give them all the rest of the day, but her spirits had been so long exerted that at present she felt unequal to more, and fit only for home, where she might be sure of being as silent as she chose.
一行人散了。男士们各有各的追求，女士们各忙各的事，他们不再见面，而安妮则属于他们。他们恳切地请求她回去吃饭，让他们度过这一天剩下的时间，但她的精神已经疲惫不堪，目前她觉得自己无法胜任更多的工作，只适合回家，在那里她可以确信自己和家人一样。她选择沉默。

Promising to be with them the whole of the following morning, therefore, she closed the fatigues of the present by a toilsome walk to Camden Place, there to spend the evening chiefly in listening to the busy arrangements of Elizabeth and Mrs Clay for the morrow’s party, the frequent enumeration of the persons invited, and the continually improving detail of all the embellishments which were to make it the most completely elegant of its kind in Bath, while harassing herself with the never-ending question, of whether Captain Wentworth would come or not? They were reckoning him as certain, but with her it was a gnawing solicitude never appeased for five minutes together. She generally thought he would come, because she generally thought he ought; but it was a case which she could not so shape into any positive act of duty or discretion, as inevitably to defy the suggestions of very opposite feelings.
因此，她答应第二天早上都会和他们在一起，因此，她辛苦地步行到卡姆登广场，结束了目前的疲劳，在那里度过了一个晚上，主要是听伊丽莎白和克莱夫人为明天的聚会进行忙碌的安排。频繁地列举被邀请的人，不断改进所有装饰的细节，使其成为巴斯同类活动中最优雅的，同时又用永无休止的问题骚扰自己，温特沃斯船长是否会来或不是？他们认为他是肯定的，但对她来说，这是一种令人痛苦的忧虑，在一起五分钟都不会平息。她一般认为他会来，因为她一般认为他应该来。但她无法将这种情况转化为任何积极的责任或谨慎的行为，因为不可避免地要藐视截然相反的感觉的建议。

She only roused herself from the broodings of this restless agitation, to let Mrs Clay know that she had been seen with Mr Elliot three hours after his being supposed to be out of Bath, for having watched in vain for some intimation of the interview from the lady herself, she determined to mention it, and it seemed to her there was guilt in Mrs Clay’s face as she listened. It was transient: cleared away in an instant; but Anne could imagine she read there the consciousness of having, by some complication of mutual trick, or some overbearing authority of his, been obliged to attend (perhaps for half an hour) to his lectures and restrictions on her designs on Sir Walter. She exclaimed, however, with a very tolerable imitation of nature: —
她只是从这种焦躁不安的沉思中醒来，让克莱夫人知道，在埃利奥特先生应该离开巴斯三小时后，有人看到她和他在一起，因为她徒劳地看到了来自埃利奥特先生的采访暗示。克莱夫人本人，她决定提起这件事，在她看来，克莱夫人听着，脸上似乎带着愧疚。它是短暂的：一瞬间就消失了；但安妮可以想象她在那里读到的意识，由于某种复杂的相互欺骗，或者他的某种专横的权威，不得不参加（也许半个小时）他的讲座，并限制了她对沃尔特爵士的设计。然而，她以一种非常可以忍受的模仿自然的方式大声喊道：

‘Oh! dear! very true. Only think, Miss Elliot, to my great surprise I met with Mr Elliot in Bath Street. I was never more astonished. He turned back and walked with me to the Pump Yard. He had been prevented setting off for Thornberry, but I really forget by what; for I was in a hurry, and could not much attend, and I can only answer for his being determined not to be delayed in his return. He wanted to know how early he might be admitted to-morrow. He was full of ‘to-morrow,’ and it is very evident that I have been full of it too, ever since I entered the house, and learnt the extension of your plan and all that had happened, or my seeing him could never have gone so entirely out of my head.’
'哦！亲爱的！非常真实。想想吧，埃利奥特小姐，令我大吃一惊的是，我在巴斯街遇见了埃利奥特先生。我从未如此惊讶过。他转身和我一起走到水泵场。他被阻止前往索恩伯里，但我真的忘记是什么原因了；因为我很着急，没能参加太多，我只能回答他决心不耽误他的归来。他想知道明天他多久可以入院。他充满了“明天”，很明显，我也充满了这种想法，自从我进了房子，了解到你的计划的延伸和所发生的一切，否则我永远不可能见到他我已经彻底忘记了。

Chapter 23
第23章

One day only had passed since Anne’s conversation with Mrs Smith; but a keener interest had succeeded, and she was now so little touched by Mr Elliot’s conduct, except by its effects in one quarter, that it became a matter of course the next morning, still to defer her explanatory visit in Rivers Street. She had promised to be with the Musgroves from breakfast to dinner. Her faith was plighted, and Mr Elliot’s character, like the Sultaness Scheherazade’s head, must live another day.
距离安妮与史密斯夫人的谈话才过去了一天；但她已经产生了更强烈的兴趣，除了对四分之一的影响之外，她现在对埃利奥特先生的行为几乎没有什么触动，以至于第二天早上，她仍然推迟了对里弗斯街的解释性访问，这是理所当然的。她答应从早餐到晚餐都会和穆斯格罗夫一家在一起。她的信仰陷入了困境，埃利奥特先生的性格，就像谢赫拉莎德苏丹王妃的脑袋一样，必须再活一天。

She could not keep her appointment punctually, however; the weather was unfavourable, and she had grieved over the rain on her friends’ account, and felt it very much on her own, before she was able to attempt the walk. When she reached the White Hart, and made her way to the proper apartment, she found herself neither arriving quite in time, nor the first to arrive. The party before her were, Mrs Musgrove, talking to Mrs Croft, and Captain Harville to Captain Wentworth; and she immediately heard that Mary and Henrietta, too impatient to wait, had gone out the moment it had cleared, but would be back again soon, and that the strictest injunctions had been left with Mrs Musgrove to keep her there till they returned. She had only to submit, sit down, be outwardly composed, and feel herself plunged at once in all the agitations which she had merely laid her account of tasting a little before the morning closed. There was no delay, no waste of time. She was deep in the happiness of such misery, or the misery of such happiness, instantly. Two minutes after her entering the room, Captain Wentworth said—
然而，她没能准时赴约。天气不太好，在她能够尝试步行之前，她因朋友的缘故而对下雨感到悲伤，并且自己也有很大的感受。当她到达白鹿酒店并前往合适的公寓时，她发现自己既没有及时到达，也不是第一个到达的。在她面前的一行人是默斯格罗夫夫人和克罗夫特夫人谈话，哈维尔船长和温特沃斯船长谈话。她立即​​听说玛丽和亨丽埃塔等得太不耐烦了，天一放晴就出去了，但很快就会回来，默斯格罗夫夫人已下达了最严格的禁令，要求她留在那里直到他们回来。她只需屈服，坐下来，表面上保持镇静，然后感觉自己立刻陷入了所有的激动之中，而她只是在早上结束前稍微尝到了这些激动的感觉。没有耽搁，没有浪费时间。她立刻就深深地陷入了这样的痛苦中的幸福，或者说是这样的幸福中的痛苦。她进入房间两分钟后，温特沃斯上尉说道——

‘We will write the letter we were talking of, Harville, now, if you will give me materials.’
“哈维尔，如果你能给我材料，我们现在就写我们正在谈论的那封信。”

Materials were at hand, on a separate table; he went to it, and nearly turning his back to them all, was engrossed by writing.
材料就在手边，放在一张单独的桌子上；他走到那儿，几乎背对着所有人，全神贯注地写着。

Mrs Musgrove was giving Mrs Croft the history of her eldest daughter’s engagement, and just in that inconvenient tone of voice which was perfectly audible while it pretended to be a whisper. Anne felt that she did not belong to the conversation, and yet, as Captain Harville seemed thoughtful and not disposed to talk, she could not avoid hearing many undesirable particulars; such as, ‘how Mr Musgrove and my brother Hayter had met again and again to talk it over; what my brother Hayter had said one day, and what Mr Musgrove had proposed the next, and what had occurred to my sister Hayter, and what the young people had wished, and what I said at first I never could consent to, but was afterwards persuaded to think might do very well,’ and a great deal in the same style of open-hearted communication: minutiae which, even with every advantage of taste and delicacy, which good Mrs Musgrove could not give, could be properly interesting only to the principals. Mrs Croft was attending with great good-humour, and whenever she spoke at all, it was very sensibly. Anne hoped the gentlemen might each be too much self-occupied to hear.
莫斯格罗夫夫人正在向克罗夫特夫人讲述她大女儿订婚的经历，语气虽然假装是耳语，但却很不方便听。安妮觉得她不属于这场谈话，然而，由于哈维尔船长似乎很深思熟虑，不愿意说话，她无法避免听到许多不受欢迎的细节；例如，“穆斯格罗夫先生和我的兄弟海特如何一次又一次地见面讨论此事；”我哥哥海特那天说的话，穆斯格罗夫先生第二天提出的建议，我妹妹海特发生的事情，年轻人的愿望，以及我一开始所说的话，我永远无法同意，但后来是说服思考可能会做得很好”，并且以同样的坦诚交流风格进行大量的交流：即使具有品味和精致的一切优点，而善良的默斯格罗夫夫人无法给予这些细节，也只有那些人才会真正感兴趣。校长。克罗夫特夫人心情很好，每次讲话都非常明智。安妮希望先生们可能都太自私了，听不到。

‘And so, ma’am, all these thing considered,’ said Mrs Musgrove, in her powerful whisper, ‘though we could have wished it different, yet, altogether, we did not think it fair to stand out any longer, for Charles Hayter was quite wild about it, and Henrietta was pretty near as bad; and so we thought they had better marry at once, and make the best of it, as many others have done before them. At any rate, said I, it will be better than a long engagement.’
“所以，女士，考虑到所有这些事情，”穆斯格罗夫夫人用她强有力的低声说道，“虽然我们本可以希望情况有所不同，但总的来说，我们认为不再脱颖而出是不公平的，因为查尔斯海特对此非常疯狂，而亨丽埃塔也几乎同样糟糕。因此我们认为他们最好立即结婚，并充分利用它，就像许多其他人在他们之前所做的那样。无论如何，我说，这比长期订婚要好。

‘That is precisely what I was going to observe,’ cried Mrs Croft. ‘I would rather have young people settle on a small income at once, and have to struggle with a few difficulties together, than be involved in a long engagement. I always think that no mutual—‘
“这正是我要观察到的，”克罗夫特夫人喊道。 “我宁愿让年轻人一下子靠着微薄的收入，一起去克服一些困难，也不愿让他们陷入长期的婚约。”我一直认为没有相互的——”

‘Oh! dear Mrs Croft,’ cried Mrs Musgrove, unable to let her finish her speech, ‘there is nothing I so abominate for young people as a long engagement. It is what I always protested against for my children. It is all very well, I used to say, for young people to be engaged, if there is a certainty of their being able to marry in six months, or even in twelve; but a long engagement—‘
'哦！亲爱的克罗夫特夫人，”穆斯格罗夫夫人喊道，无法让她把话说完，“对于年轻人来说，没有什么比长期订婚更让我厌恶的了。这是我一直为我的孩子们所抗议的。我过去常说，对于年轻人来说，如果确定他们能够在六个月甚至十二个月内结婚，那么订婚就很好了。但订婚时间很长——”

‘Yes, dear ma’am,’ said Mrs Croft, ‘or an uncertain engagement, an engagement which may be long. To begin without knowing that at such a time there will be the means of marrying, I hold to be very unsafe and unwise, and what I think all parents should prevent as far as they can.’
“是的，亲爱的女士，”克罗夫特太太说，“或者是一个不确定的订婚，一个可能会持续很长时间的订婚。在不知道在这样的时候会有结婚的手段的情况下开始，我认为这是非常不安全和不明智的，我认为所有父母都应该尽可能避免这种情况。

Anne found an unexpected interest here. She felt its application to herself, felt it in a nervous thrill all over her; and at the same moment that her eyes instinctively glanced towards the distant table, Captain Wentworth’s pen ceased to move, his head was raised, pausing, listening, and he turned round the next instant to give a look, one quick, conscious look at her.
安妮在这里发现了意想不到的兴趣。她感受到了它对自己的应用，感受到了她全身的紧张颤抖。就在她的眼睛本能地望向远处的桌子的同时，温特沃斯上尉的笔停止了移动，他抬起头，停下来，听着，下一瞬间他转过身来，快速地、有意识地看了她一眼。 。

The two ladies continued to talk, to re-urge the same admitted truths, and enforce them with such examples of the ill effect of a contrary practice as had fallen within their observation, but Anne heard nothing distinctly; it was only a buzz of words in her ear, her mind was in confusion.
两位女士继续交谈，重申同样的公认真理，并用她们观察到的相反做法的不良影响的例子来强化它们，但安妮什么也没听到；耳边只有嗡嗡的话语声，她的脑子一片混乱。

Captain Harville, who had in truth been hearing none of it, now left his seat, and moved to a window, and Anne seeming to watch him, though it was from thorough absence of mind, became gradually sensible that he was inviting her to join him where he stood. He looked at her with a smile, and a little motion of the head, which expressed, ‘Come to me, I have something to say;’ and the unaffected, easy kindness of manner which denoted the feelings of an older acquaintance than he really was, strongly enforced the invitation. She roused herself and went to him. The window at which he stood was at the other end of the room from where the two ladies were sitting, and though nearer to Captain Wentworth’s table, not very near. As she joined him, Captain Harville’s countenance re-assumed the serious, thoughtful expression which seemed its natural character.
哈维尔上尉实际上什么也没听到，现在离开了座位，走到窗边，安妮似乎在看着他，尽管她完全心不在焉，但她逐渐意识到他正在邀请她加入。他就站在原地。他微笑着看着她，微微摇头，表示：“到我这里来，我有话要说。”他那不做作、轻松友善的举止表现出了一位比他实际年纪大的熟人的感情。是，强烈执行了邀请。她醒了过来，走向他。他所站的窗户位于房间的另一端，距离两位女士所坐的地方，虽然离温特沃斯船长的桌子较近，但并不是很近。当她走到他身边时，哈维尔船长的表情又恢复了严肃、深思熟虑的表情，这似乎是它的自然特征。

‘Look here,’ said he, unfolding a parcel in his hand, and displaying a small miniature painting, ‘do you know who that is?’
“看这里，”他一边说，一边展开手中的一个包裹，里面展示着一幅小型微型画，“你知道那是谁吗？”

‘Certainly: Captain Benwick.’
“当然可以：本威克船长。”

‘Yes, and you may guess who it is for. But,’ (in a deep tone,) ‘it was not done for her. Miss Elliot, do you remember our walking together at Lyme, and grieving for him? I little thought then— but no matter. This was drawn at the Cape. He met with a clever young German artist at the Cape, and in compliance with a promise to my poor sister, sat to him, and was bringing it home for her; and I have now the charge of getting it properly set for another! It was a commission to me! But who else was there to employ? I hope I can allow for him. I am not sorry, indeed, to make it over to another. He undertakes it;’ (looking towards Captain Wentworth,) ‘he is writing about it now.’ And with a quivering lip he wound up the whole by adding, ‘Poor Fanny! she would not have forgotten him so soon!’
“是的，你可能猜到这是给谁的。但是，”（低沉的语气）“这不是为她做的。艾略特小姐，你还记得我们一起在莱姆散步并为他悲伤吗？我当时没有多想——但没关系。这是在海角画的。他在海角遇到了一位聪明的年轻德国艺术家，并履行了对我可怜的妹妹的承诺，坐在他身边，并把它带回家给她；我现在负责为另一个人正确设置它！这是给我的委托！但还有谁可以雇用呢？我希望我能体谅他。事实上，我并不后悔把它交给另一个人。他承担了这件事；”（看着温特沃斯船长）“他现在正在写这件事。”他嘴唇颤抖着，最后补充道：“可怜的范妮！”她不会这么快就忘记他的！”

‘No,’ replied Anne, in a low, feeling voice. ‘That I can easily believe.’
“不，”安妮用低沉而充满感情的声音回答道。 “我很容易相信这一点。”

‘It was not in her nature. She doted on him.’
‘这不是她的本性。她很溺爱他。

‘It would not be the nature of any woman who truly loved.’
“这不会是任何真正爱过的女人的本性。”

Captain Harville smiled, as much as to say, ‘Do you claim that for your sex?’ and she answered the question, smiling also, ‘Yes. We certainly do not forget you as soon as you forget us. It is, perhaps, our fate rather than our merit. We cannot help ourselves. We live at home, quiet, confined, and our feelings prey upon us. You are forced on exertion. You have always a profession, pursuits, business of some sort or other, to take you back into the world immediately, and continual occupation and change soon weaken impressions.’
哈维尔船长微笑着，几乎是在说，“你认为你的性别是这样吗？”她也微笑着回答了这个问题，“是的。”当您忘记我们时，我们当然不会忘记您。也许，这是我们的命运，而不是我们的优点。我们无能为力。我们住在家里，安静、封闭，我们的感情折磨着我们。你被迫努力。你总是有某种职业、追求、某种事业，可以让你立即回到现实世界，而持续的职业和变化很快就会削弱印象。

‘Granting your assertion that the world does all this so soon for men (which, however, I do not think I shall grant), it does not apply to Benwick. He has not been forced upon any exertion. The peace turned him on shore at the very moment, and he has been living with us, in our little family circle, ever since.’
“同意你的断言，即世界这么快就为人类做到了这一切（然而，我认为我不会同意），但它不适用于本威克。他没有被迫做出任何努力。此刻，平静让他上岸了，从那时起，他就一直和我们一起生活在我们的小家庭圈子里。

‘True,’ said Anne, ‘very true; I did not recollect; but what shall we say now, Captain Harville? If the change be not from outward circumstances, it must be from within; it must be nature, man’s nature, which has done the business for Captain Benwick.’
“是的，”安妮说，“非常正确；”我不记得了；但哈维尔船长，我们现在该说什么呢？如果改变不是来自外在环境，那一定是来自内部；这一定是自然，人的本性，为本威克船长做了这件事。

‘No, no, it is not man’s nature. I will not allow it to be more man’s nature than woman’s to be inconstant and forget those they do love, or have loved. I believe the reverse. I believe in a true analogy between our bodily frames and our mental; and that as our bodies are the strongest, so are our feelings; capable of bearing most rough usage, and riding out the heaviest weather.’
‘不，不，这不是人的本性。我不会允许男人的天性比女人的天性更加反复无常并忘记他们所爱的人或曾经爱过的人。我相信相反。我相信我们的身体结构和我们的精神之间存在真正的类比；我们的身体是最坚强的，我们的感情也是最坚强的；能够承受最恶劣的使用，并度过最恶劣的天气。”

‘Your feelings may be the strongest,’ replied Anne, ‘but the same spirit of analogy will authorise me to assert that ours are the most tender. Man is more robust than woman, but he is not longer lived; which exactly explains my view of the nature of their attachments. Nay, it would be too hard upon you, if it were otherwise. You have difficulties, and privations, and dangers enough to struggle with. You are always labouring and toiling, exposed to every risk and hardship. Your home, country, friends, all quitted. Neither time, nor health, nor life, to be called your own. It would be hard, indeed’ (with a faltering voice), ‘if woman’s feelings were to be added to all this.’
“你的感情可能是最强烈的，”安妮回答道，“但同样的类比精神将使我断言我们的感情是最温柔的。”男人比女人强壮，但寿命不长；这准确地解释了我对他们执着本质的看法。不，如果不是这样，那对你来说就太难了。你有足够的困难、匮乏和危险去与之斗争。你们总是在劳作、辛苦，面临各种风险和困难。你的家、国家、朋友，全都放弃了。时间、健康、生命都不是自己的。确实，如果在这一切中加上女人的感情，那就很难了”（声音颤抖着）。

‘We shall never agree upon this question,’ Captain Harville was beginning to say, when a slight noise called their attention to Captain Wentworth’s hitherto perfectly quiet division of the room. It was nothing more than that his pen had fallen down; but Anne was startled at finding him nearer than she had supposed, and half inclined to suspect that the pen had only fallen because he had been occupied by them, striving to catch sounds, which yet she did not think he could have caught.
“我们永远不会在这个问题上达成一致。”哈维尔船长正要说，这时一阵轻微的噪音引起了他们对温特沃斯船长房间里迄今为止完全安静的区域的注意。无非是他的笔掉下来了；但安妮惊讶地发现他比她想象的更近，并且有点怀疑钢笔掉落只是因为他被他们占据，努力捕捉声音，但她认为他无法捕捉到。

‘Have you finished your letter?’ said Captain Harville.
“你的信写完了吗？”哈维尔船长问道。

‘Not quite, a few lines more. I shall have done in five minutes.’
“不完全是，还有几行。”我五分钟内就能完成。

‘There is no hurry on my side. I am only ready whenever you are. I am in very good anchorage here,’ (smiling at Anne,) ‘well supplied, and want for nothing. No hurry for a signal at all. Well, Miss Elliot,’ (lowering his voice,) ‘as I was saying we shall never agree, I suppose, upon this point. No man and woman, would, probably. But let me observe that all histories are against you—all stories, prose and verse. If I had such a memory as Benwick, I could bring you fifty quotations in a moment on my side the argument, and I do not think I ever opened a book in my life which had not something to say upon woman’s inconstancy. Songs and proverbs, all talk of woman’s fickleness. But perhaps you will say, these were all written by men.’
‘我这边不着急。只要你准备好，我就准备好了。我在这里的锚地非常好，”（对安妮微笑），“供应充足，什么都不缺。根本不急于信号。好吧，埃利奥特小姐，”（压低声音）“正如我所说，我想，在这一点上我们永远不会达成一致。可能没有男人和女人会这么做。但让我观察一下，所有的历史都反对你——所有的故事、散文和诗歌。如果我有像本威克那样的记忆力，我可以立刻给你引述五十句支持我观点的引文，而且我想我一生中没有翻过一本书，里面没有谈到女人的反复无常。歌谣谚语，都在讲女人的善变。但也许你会说，这些都是人写的。

‘Perhaps I shall. Yes, yes, if you please, no reference to examples in books. Men have had every advantage of us in telling their own story. Education has been theirs in so much higher a degree; the pen has been in their hands. I will not allow books to prove anything.’
‘也许我会的。是的，是的，如果你愿意的话，不要参考书本上的例子。男人在讲述自己的故事方面比我们更有优势。他们的教育程度要高得多。笔已经在他们手里了。我不会让书本证明任何事情。

‘But how shall we prove anything?’
“但是我们该如何证明呢？”

‘We never shall. We never can expect to prove any thing upon such a point. It is a difference of opinion which does not admit of proof. We each begin, probably, with a little bias towards our own sex; and upon that bias build every circumstance in favour of it which has occurred within our own circle; many of which circumstances (perhaps those very cases which strike us the most) may be precisely such as cannot be brought forward without betraying a confidence, or in some respect saying what should not be said.’
‘我们永远不会。我们永远不能指望在这一点上证明任何事情。这是意见分歧，无法提供证据。我们每个人一开始可能都会对自己的性别有一点偏见。在这种偏见的基础上，我们圈子里出现的一切有利于这种偏见的情况都建立在这种偏见的基础上。其中许多情况（也许正是那些最令我们震惊的情况）可能恰恰是在不泄露秘密或在某些方面说出不应该说的话的情况下无法提出的。

‘Ah!’ cried Captain Harville, in a tone of strong feeling, ‘if I could but make you comprehend what a man suffers when he takes a last look at his wife and children, and watches the boat that he has sent them off in, as long as it is in sight, and then turns away and says, ‘God knows whether we ever meet again!’ And then, if I could convey to you the glow of his soul when he does see them again; when, coming back after a twelvemonth’s absence, perhaps, and obliged to put into another port, he calculates how soon it be possible to get them there, pretending to deceive himself, and saying, ‘They cannot be here till such a day,’ but all the while hoping for them twelve hours sooner, and seeing them arrive at last, as if Heaven had given them wings, by many hours sooner still! If I could explain to you all this, and all that a man can bear and do, and glories to do, for the sake of these treasures of his existence! I speak, you know, only of such men as have hearts!’ pressing his own with emotion.
“啊！”哈维尔船长用一种强烈的感情喊道，“如果我能让你理解一个人最后看一眼他的妻子和孩子，看着他送他们离开的船时所承受的痛苦就好了。 ，只要它在眼前，然后转身说：“上帝知道我们是否还能再见面！”然后，如果我能向你传达当他再次见到他们时他灵魂的光芒；当他离开十二个月后回来时，也许，不得不把它们放入另一个港口，他计算着多久才能把它们送到那里，假装欺骗自己，说：“直到有一天，它们才能在这里，”但一直希望他们能早十二个小时到达，看到他们终于到达，就好像上天给了他们翅膀一样，还早了很多个小时！如果我能向你解释这一切，以及一个人为了他存在的这些宝藏而能够忍受和做的一切，以及光荣做的一切！你知道，我所说的只是那些有心的人！”他激动地说。

‘Oh!’ cried Anne eagerly, ‘I hope I do justice to all that is felt by you, and by those who resemble you. God forbid that I should undervalue the warm and faithful feelings of any of my fellow-creatures! I should deserve utter contempt if I dared to suppose that true attachment and constancy were known only by woman. No, I believe you capable of everything great and good in your married lives. I believe you equal to every important exertion, and to every domestic forbearance, so long as—if I may be allowed the expression—so long as you have an object. I mean while the woman you love lives, and lives for you. All the privilege I claim for my own sex (it is not a very enviable one; you need not covet it), is that of loving longest, when existence or when hope is gone.’
“哦！”安妮急切地喊道，“我希望我能公正地对待你以及那些与你相似的人所感受到的一切。上帝禁止我低估任何同胞的热情和忠诚的感情！如果我敢于认为只有女人才懂得真正的依恋和坚贞，我就应该受到彻底的蔑视。不，我相信你有能力在婚姻生活中实现一切伟大而美好的事情。我相信，只要——如果允许我这么说的话——只要你有一个目标，你就能够做好每一项重要的努力，以及每一项家庭忍耐。我的意思是，当你爱的女人活着，并且为你而活时。我为自己的性别所要求的所有特权（这不是一个非常令人羡慕的特权；你不必觊觎它），就是当存在或希望消失时，爱得最长。

She could not immediately have uttered another sentence; her heart was too full, her breath too much oppressed.
她无法立即再说一句话；她的心太满了，她的呼吸太压抑了。

‘You are a good soul,’ cried Captain Harville, putting his hand on her arm, quite affectionately. ‘There is no quarrelling with you. And when I think of Benwick, my tongue is tied.’
“你是一个善良的人，”哈维尔上尉喊道，他把手放在她的手臂上，非常亲切。 ‘没有和你吵架。当我想到本威克时，我的舌头打结了。

Their attention was called towards the others. Mrs Croft was taking leave.
他们的注意力被吸引到其他人身上。克罗夫特夫人正在休假。

‘Here, Frederick, you and I part company, I believe,’ said she. ‘I am going home, and you have an engagement with your friend. To-night we may have the pleasure of all meeting again at your party,’ (turning to Anne.) ‘We had your sister’s card yesterday, and I understood Frederick had a card too, though I did not see it; and you are disengaged, Frederick, are you not, as well as ourselves?’
“在这里，弗雷德里克，我相信你和我分手了，”她说。 “我要回家了，你和你的朋友有个约会。今晚我们可能很高兴在你的聚会上再次见面，”（转向安妮。）“昨天我们拿到了你姐姐的名片，我知道弗雷德里克也有一张名片，尽管我没有看到；弗雷德里克，你和我们都脱离了关系，不是吗？

Captain Wentworth was folding up a letter in great haste, and either could not or would not answer fully.
温特沃斯上尉正在匆忙地折起一封信，他要么不能，要么不愿完整地回答。

‘Yes,’ said he, ‘very true; here we separate, but Harville and I shall soon be after you; that is, Harville, if you are ready, I am in half a minute. I know you will not be sorry to be off. I shall be at your service in half a minute.’
“是的，”他说，“非常正确；我们在这里分开，但哈维尔和我很快就会追上你；也就是说，哈维尔，如果你准备好了，半分钟后我就到了。我知道你不会因为离开而感到遗憾。半分钟后我将为您服务。

Mrs Croft left them, and Captain Wentworth, having sealed his letter with great rapidity, was indeed ready, and had even a hurried, agitated air, which shewed impatience to be gone. Anne knew not how to understand it. She had the kindest ‘Good morning, God bless you!’ from Captain Harville, but from him not a word, nor a look! He had passed out of the room without a look!
克罗夫特夫人离开了他们，温特沃斯船长很快就把信封好，确实已经准备好了，甚至神情匆忙、焦躁，表现出不耐烦离开的样子。安妮不知道该如何理解。哈维尔船长向她说了最亲切的“早上好，上帝保佑你！”，但他没有说一句话，也没有看一眼！他连看都没看一眼就走出了房间！

She had only time, however, to move closer to the table where he had been writing, when footsteps were heard returning; the door opened, it was himself. He begged their pardon, but he had forgotten his gloves, and instantly crossing the room to the writing table, he drew out a letter from under the scattered paper, placed it before Anne with eyes of glowing entreaty fixed on her for a time, and hastily collecting his gloves, was again out of the room, almost before Mrs Musgrove was aware of his being in it: the work of an instant!
然而，她刚来得及靠近他正在写字的桌子，就听见脚步声又回来了。门开了，是他自己。他请求他们原谅，但他忘记带手套了，立刻穿过房间来到写字台前，从散落的纸下抽出一封信，放在安妮面前，眼睛里闪烁着恳求的光芒，盯着她看了一会儿，然后匆忙收起手套，再次走出房间，几乎在莫斯格罗夫夫人意识到他在房间里之前：瞬间的工作！

The revolution which one instant had made in Anne, was almost beyond expression. The letter, with a direction hardly legible, to ‘Miss A. E.—,’ was evidently the one which he had been folding so hastily. While supposed to be writing only to Captain Benwick, he had been also addressing her! On the contents of that letter depended all which this world could do for her. Anything was possible, anything might be defied rather than suspense. Mrs Musgrove had little arrangements of her own at her own table; to their protection she must trust, and sinking into the chair which he had occupied, succeeding to the very spot where he had leaned and written, her eyes devoured the following words:
安妮一瞬间所发生的革命几乎是无法形容的。这封信的方向难以辨认，写给“A.E.小姐——”，显然就是他匆忙折叠的那封信。虽然本应只写信给本威克船长，但他也在写信给她！这个世界能为她做的一切，都取决于那封信的内容。一切皆有可能，一切都可能被反抗，而不是悬念。默斯格罗夫夫人在自己的餐桌上几乎没有什么安排。她必须相信他们的保护，然后坐进他坐过的椅子上，紧接着他靠着写字的地方，她的眼睛吞噬着下面的文字：

‘I can listen no longer in silence. I must speak to you by such means as are within my reach. You pierce my soul. I am half agony, half hope. Tell me not that I am too late, that such precious feelings are gone for ever. I offer myself to you again with a heart even more your own than when you almost broke it, eight years and a half ago. Dare not say that man forgets sooner than woman, that his love has an earlier death. I have loved none but you. Unjust I may have been, weak and resentful I have been, but never inconstant. You alone have brought me to Bath. For you alone, I think and plan. Have you not seen this? Can you fail to have understood my wishes? I had not waited even these ten days, could I have read your feelings, as I think you must have penetrated mine. I can hardly write. I am every instant hearing something which overpowers me. You sink your voice, but I can distinguish the tones of that voice when they would be lost on others. Too good, too excellent creature! You do us justice, indeed. You do believe that there is true attachment and constancy among men. Believe it to be most fervent, most undeviating, in F. W.
“我不能再沉默地聆听了。我必须通过我力所能及的方式与您交谈。你刺穿了我的灵魂。我一半是痛苦，一半是希望。不要告诉我我来得太晚了，这样珍贵的感情已经一去不复返了。我再次将自己献给你，带着一颗比八年半前你差点破碎时更加属于你的心。不敢说男人比女人忘记得早，他的爱情死得早。除了你，我没有爱过任何人。我可能不公正、软弱、怨恨，但我从来没有反复无常。是你一个人把我带到了巴斯。为了你一个人，我思考并计划。你没见过这个吗？你难道不明白我的愿望吗？我什至都没有等到这十天，我能否读懂你的感受，因为我想你一定已经看透了我的感受。我很难写。我每时每刻都听到一些令我难以承受的声音。你的声音低沉，但我可以辨别出别人听不懂的语气。太优秀了，太优秀的生物了！你确实为我们伸张了正义。你确实相信男人之间存在着真正的依恋和坚贞。相信它是最热情、最坚定的，在 F. W.

‘I must go, uncertain of my fate; but I shall return hither, or follow your party, as soon as possible. A word, a look, will be enough to decide whether I enter your father’s house this evening or never.’
“我必须离开，不确定自己的命运；但我会尽快返回这里，或者跟随你们的队伍。一句话，一个眼神，就足以决定我今晚是否进入你父亲的房子。

Such a letter was not to be soon recovered from. Half and hour’s solitude and reflection might have tranquillized her; but the ten minutes only which now passed before she was interrupted, with all the restraints of her situation, could do nothing towards tranquillity. Every moment rather brought fresh agitation. It was overpowering happiness. And before she was beyond the first stage of full sensation, Charles, Mary, and Henrietta all came in.
这样一封信并没有很快被收回。半个多小时的孤独和沉思可能会让她平静下来。但现在只过了十分钟，她就被打断了，加上她处境的种种限制，根本无法让她平静下来。每一刻都带来新的激动。这是压倒性的幸福。在她完全感觉不到第一阶段之前，查尔斯、玛丽和亨丽埃塔都进来了。

The absolute necessity of seeming like herself produced then an immediate struggle; but after a while she could do no more. She began not to understand a word they said, and was obliged to plead indisposition and excuse herself. They could then see that she looked very ill, were shocked and concerned, and would not stir without her for the world. This was dreadful. Would they only have gone away, and left her in the quiet possession of that room it would have been her cure; but to have them all standing or waiting around her was distracting, and in desperation, she said she would go home.
看起来像她自己的绝对必要性立即引起了一场斗争。但过了一会儿，她就再也做不了了。她开始听不懂他们说的话，不得不以身体不适为借口原谅自己。然后他们发现她看起来病得很重，感到震惊和担忧，没有她就一动不动。这太可怕了。要是他们走开，把她留在那间安静的房间里，那就可以治愈她了。但让他们都站在或等待在她身边让她分心，绝望中，她说她要回家。

‘By all means, my dear,’ cried Mrs Musgrove, ‘go home directly, and take care of yourself, that you may be fit for the evening. I wish Sarah was here to doctor you, but I am no doctor myself. Charles, ring and order a chair. She must not walk.’
“无论如何，亲爱的，”默斯格罗夫夫人喊道，“直接回家吧，照顾好自己，这样你就能适应今晚的活动了。”我希望莎拉能在这里给你看病，但我自己不是医生。查尔斯，打电话订一张椅子。她不能走路。

But the chair would never do. Worse than all! To lose the possibility of speaking two words to Captain Wentworth in the course of her quiet, solitary progress up the town (and she felt almost certain of meeting him) could not be borne. The chair was earnestly protested against, and Mrs Musgrove, who thought only of one sort of illness, having assured herself with some anxiety, that there had been no fall in the case; that Anne had not at any time lately slipped down, and got a blow on her head; that she was perfectly convinced of having had no fall; could part with her cheerfully, and depend on finding her better at night.
但椅子永远不会做。比所有的都糟糕！在她安静、孤独地进城的过程中，失去了与温特沃斯上尉说两句话的机会（她几乎肯定会见到他），这是无法忍受的。椅子受到了认真的抗议，而默斯格罗夫夫人只想到了一种疾病，她有些焦虑地向自己保证，这件事没有发生过。安妮最近从未滑倒过，头部也没有受到过打击。她完全相信自己没有摔倒；可以高高兴兴地与她分开，并指望晚上能找到她更好的情况。

Anxious to omit no possible precaution, Anne struggled, and said—
安妮急于避免忽略任何可能的预防措施，挣扎着说道——

‘I am afraid, ma’am, that it is not perfectly understood. Pray be so good as to mention to the other gentlemen that we hope to see your whole party this evening. I am afraid there had been some mistake; and I wish you particularly to assure Captain Harville and Captain Wentworth, that we hope to see them both.’
“恐怕，女士，人们还没有完全理解这一点。请向其他先生提及我们希望今晚能见到你们的整个聚会。恐怕有什么错误；我特别希望你向哈维尔上尉和温特沃斯上尉保证，我们希望见到他们两人。

‘Oh! my dear, it is quite understood, I give you my word. Captain Harville has no thought but of going.’
'哦！亲爱的，这是完全明白的，我向你保证。哈维尔船长只想走。

‘Do you think so? But I am afraid; and I should be so very sorry. Will you promise me to mention it, when you see them again? You will see them both this morning, I dare say. Do promise me.’
‘你这么认为吗？但我害怕；我应该感到非常抱歉。当你再次见到他们时，你能答应我提起这件事吗？我敢说，今天早上你就会看到他们俩。请答应我。

‘To be sure I will, if you wish it. Charles, if you see Captain Harville anywhere, remember to give Miss Anne’s message. But indeed, my dear, you need not be uneasy. Captain Harville holds himself quite engaged, I’ll answer for it; and Captain Wentworth the same, I dare say.’
“当然，如果你愿意的话，我会的。”查尔斯，如果你在任何地方看到哈维尔船长，请记得转达安妮小姐的口信。但事实上，亲爱的，你不必感到不安。哈维尔船长非常忙碌，我来负责；我敢说，温特沃斯上尉也一样。

Anne could do no more; but her heart prophesied some mischance to damp the perfection of her felicity. It could not be very lasting, however. Even if he did not come to Camden Place himself, it would be in her power to send an intelligible sentence by Captain Harville. Another momentary vexation occurred. Charles, in his real concern and good nature, would go home with her; there was no preventing him. This was almost cruel. But she could not be long ungrateful; he was sacrificing an engagement at a gunsmith’s, to be of use to her; and she set off with him, with no feeling but gratitude apparent.
安妮已经无能为力了。但她的内心预感到会发生一些不幸，从而破坏了她完美的幸福。然而，它不可能很持久。即使他本人不来卡姆登广场，她也有能力发送哈维尔船长的一句可以理解的句子。又一瞬间的烦恼发生了。查尔斯本着他真正的关心和善良的本性，会和她一起回家。没有什么可以阻止他。这几乎是残酷的。但她忘恩负义的时间不会太久。为了对她有用，他牺牲了在枪匠店的工作。她和他一起出发了，除了感激之外没有任何感情。

They were on Union Street, when a quicker step behind, a something of familiar sound, gave her two moments’ preparation for the sight of Captain Wentworth. He joined them; but, as if irresolute whether to join or to pass on, said nothing, only looked. Anne could command herself enough to receive that look, and not repulsively. The cheeks which had been pale now glowed, and the movements which had hesitated were decided. He walked by her side. Presently, struck by a sudden thought, Charles said—
他们在联合街，这时她加快了一步，听到了熟悉的声音，让她为看到温特沃斯船长做好了两分钟的准备。他加入了他们；但他似乎犹豫不决是要加入还是要继续传承，什么也没说，只是看着。安妮可以控制自己接受那种眼神，而且并不令人厌恶。原本苍白的脸颊现在泛起红光，之前犹豫的动作也已经决定了。他走在她身边。此刻，查尔斯突然想到，说道——

‘Captain Wentworth, which way are you going? Only to Gay Street, or farther up the town?’
“温特沃斯船长，你要往哪个方向走？只去盖伊街，还是去镇上更远的地方？

‘I hardly know,’ replied Captain Wentworth, surprised.
“我几乎不知道，”温特沃斯上尉惊讶地回答道。

‘Are you going as high as Belmont? Are you going near Camden Place? Because, if you are, I shall have no scruple in asking you to take my place, and give Anne your arm to her father’s door. She is rather done for this morning, and must not go so far without help, and I ought to be at that fellow’s in the Market Place. He promised me the sight of a capital gun he is just going to send off; said he would keep it unpacked to the last possible moment, that I might see it; and if I do not turn back now, I have no chance. By his description, a good deal like the second size double-barrel of mine, which you shot with one day round Winthrop.’
“你要去贝尔蒙特那么高吗？”您要去卡姆登广场附近吗？因为，如果你是，我会毫无顾忌地请你代替我，把你的手臂伸到安妮父亲的门前。今天早上她已经差不多完成了，在没有帮助的情况下不能走这么远，而我应该去市场的那个家伙那里。他向我保证，他将要送出一把大炮。他说他会一直把它拆开，直到最后一刻，以便我可以看到它。如果我现在不回头，我就没有机会了。根据他的描述，这很像我的第二号双管枪，你在温思罗普周围一天用它射击的。

There could not be an objection. There could be only the most proper alacrity, a most obliging compliance for public view; and smiles reined in and spirits dancing in private rapture. In half a minute Charles was at the bottom of Union Street again, and the other two proceeding together: and soon words enough had passed between them to decide their direction towards the comparatively quiet and retired gravel walk, where the power of conversation would make the present hour a blessing indeed, and prepare it for all the immortality which the happiest recollections of their own future lives could bestow. There they exchanged again those feelings and those promises which had once before seemed to secure everything, but which had been followed by so many, many years of division and estrangement. There they returned again into the past, more exquisitely happy, perhaps, in their re-union, than when it had been first projected; more tender, more tried, more fixed in a knowledge of each other’s character, truth, and attachment; more equal to act, more justified in acting. And there, as they slowly paced the gradual ascent, heedless of every group around them, seeing neither sauntering politicians, bustling housekeepers, flirting girls, nor nursery-maids and children, they could indulge in those retrospections and acknowledgements, and especially in those explanations of what had directly preceded the present moment, which were so poignant and so ceaseless in interest. All the little variations of the last week were gone through; and of yesterday and today there could scarcely be an end.
不可能有人反对。只能是最适当的欣然、最乐于服从公众的看法；笑容收敛了，精神在私下的狂喜中翩翩起舞。半分钟后，查尔斯又到了联合街的尽头，另外两个人一起前行：很快，他们之间就已经进行了足够多的交谈，决定了他们走向相对安静和隐秘的碎石路的方向，在那里谈话的力量将使现在的时刻确实是一种祝福，并为他们自己未来生活中最幸福的回忆所能赋予的所有不朽做好准备。在那里，他们再次交换了感情和承诺，这些感情和承诺曾经一度似乎确保了一切，但随之而来的是很多很多年的分裂和疏远。在那里，他们再次回到了过去，也许，在他们的重逢中，比第一次计划时更加幸福。更加温柔、更加努力、更加了解彼此的性格、真相和依恋；行动更加平等，行动更加合理。在那里，当他们慢慢地步子逐渐上升时，不关心周围的每一个人，既看不到闲逛的政客，忙碌的管家，调情的女孩，也看不到保姆和孩子，他们可以沉迷于那些回顾和承认，尤其是那些解释就在此刻之前发生的事情是如此令人心酸，如此令人感兴趣。上周所有的小变化都已经经历过了；昨天和今天的事情几乎不可能结束。

She had not mistaken him. Jealousy of Mr Elliot had been the retarding weight, the doubt, the torment. That had begun to operate in the very hour of first meeting her in Bath; that had returned, after a short suspension, to ruin the concert; and that had influenced him in everything he had said and done, or omitted to say and do, in the last four-and-twenty hours. It had been gradually yielding to the better hopes which her looks, or words, or actions occasionally encouraged; it had been vanquished at last by those sentiments and those tones which had reached him while she talked with Captain Harville; and under the irresistible governance of which he had seized a sheet of paper, and poured out his feelings.
她没有看错他。艾略特先生的嫉妒一直是阻碍他的重担、怀疑和折磨。从在巴斯第一次见到她的那一刻起，这种感觉就开始发挥作用了。在短暂的暂停之后，这种情况又回来了，毁掉了音乐会；这影响了他在过去四二十个小时里所说和所做的一切，或者忽略了所说和所做的一切。它已经逐渐屈服于她的外表、言语或行为偶尔激发的更好的希望。最后，当她与哈维尔船长谈话时，他的情绪和语气终于战胜了这种情绪。在不可抗拒的统治下，他抓住了一张纸，倾诉了自己的感情。

Of what he had then written, nothing was to be retracted or qualified. He persisted in having loved none but her. She had never been supplanted. He never even believed himself to see her equal. Thus much indeed he was obliged to acknowledge: that he had been constant unconsciously, nay unintentionally; that he had meant to forget her, and believed it to be done. He had imagined himself indifferent, when he had only been angry; and he had been unjust to her merits, because he had been a sufferer from them. Her character was now fixed on his mind as perfection itself, maintaining the loveliest medium of fortitude and gentleness; but he was obliged to acknowledge that only at Uppercross had he learnt to do her justice, and only at Lyme had he begun to understand himself. At Lyme, he had received lessons of more than one sort. The passing admiration of Mr Elliot had at least roused him, and the scenes on the Cobb and at Captain Harville’s had fixed her superiority.
对于他当时所写的内容，没有任何内容是可以撤回或限定的。他坚持只爱她一个人。她从未被取代。他甚至从来不相信自己能看到她是平等的。事实上，他不得不承认：他一直在无意识地，甚至是无意识地坚持不懈；他本想忘记她，并且相信他已经做到了。他原以为自己漠不关心，其实他只是生气了。他对她的优点不公正，因为他曾是这些优点的受害者。她的性格现在在他心目中是完美的，保持着最可爱的坚韧和温柔的媒介。但他不得不承认，只有在厄珀克罗斯，他才学会公正地对待她，只有在莱姆，他才开始了解自己。在莱姆，他接受的教训不只一种。埃利奥特先生短暂的钦佩至少唤醒了他，科布号和哈维尔船长家的场景也确立了她的优越感。

In his preceding attempts to attach himself to Louisa Musgrove (the attempts of angry pride), he protested that he had for ever felt it to be impossible; that he had not cared, could not care, for Louisa; though till that day, till the leisure for reflection which followed it, he had not understood the perfect excellence of the mind with which Louisa’s could so ill bear a comparison, or the perfect unrivalled hold it possessed over his own. There, he had learnt to distinguish between the steadiness of principle and the obstinacy of self-will, between the darings of heedlessness and the resolution of a collected mind. There he had seen everything to exalt in his estimation the woman he had lost; and there begun to deplore the pride, the folly, the madness of resentment, which had kept him from trying to regain her when thrown in his way.
在他之前试图与路易莎·穆斯格罗夫建立联系的尝试中（出于愤怒的骄傲的尝试），他抗议说他一直觉得这是不可能的；但他并没有这样做。他不关心、也不可能关心路易莎；尽管直到那一天，直到随后有时间进行反思，他还不明白路易莎的心灵有多么卓越，以至于难以与之相比，也不明白它对他自己所拥有的完美无与伦比的控制力。在那里，他学会了区分原则的坚定性和任性的固执，粗心大意的大胆和头脑冷静的决心。在那里，他看到了一切值得他称赞的他失去的女人。他开始为自己的骄傲、愚蠢和疯狂的怨恨而感到痛惜，正是这些使他在遇到她时无法重新抓住她。

From that period his penance had become severe. He had no sooner been free from the horror and remorse attending the first few days of Louisa’s accident, no sooner begun to feel himself alive again, than he had begun to feel himself, though alive, not at liberty.
从那时起，他的苦修变得更加严厉。当他刚从路易莎出事的最初几天的恐惧和悔恨中解脱出来，刚开始感觉自己又活过来了，他就开始感觉到自己虽然还活着，但却没有自由。

‘I found,’ said he, ‘that I was considered by Harville an engaged man! That neither Harville nor his wife entertained a doubt of our mutual attachment. I was startled and shocked. To a degree, I could contradict this instantly; but, when I began to reflect that others might have felt the same—her own family, nay, perhaps herself—I was no longer at my own disposal. I was hers in honour if she wished it. I had been unguarded. I had not thought seriously on this subject before. I had not considered that my excessive intimacy must have its danger of ill consequence in many ways; and that I had no right to be trying whether I could attach myself to either of the girls, at the risk of raising even an unpleasant report, were there no other ill effects. I had been grossly wrong, and must abide the consequences.’
“我发现，”他说，“哈维尔认为我已经订婚了！哈维尔和他的妻子都没有怀疑我们的相互依恋。我感到震惊和震惊。在某种程度上，我可以立即反驳这一点。但是，当我开始反思其他人可能也有同样的感受时——她自己的家人，不，也许是她自己——我不再由我自己支配。如果她愿意的话，我很荣幸地属于她。我本来就无人防守。我以前没有认真思考过这个问题。我没有想到我的过度亲密会在很多方面带来不良后果的危险；如果没有其他不良影响，我无权尝试是否可以与其中任何一个女孩建立联系，即使冒着提出不愉快报告的风险。我错了，必须承担后果。”

He found too late, in short, that he had entangled himself; and that precisely as he became fully satisfied of his not caring for Louisa at all, he must regard himself as bound to her, if her sentiments for him were what the Harvilles supposed. It determined him to leave Lyme, and await her complete recovery elsewhere. He would gladly weaken, by any fair means, whatever feelings or speculations concerning him might exist; and he went, therefore, to his brother’s, meaning after a while to return to Kellynch, and act as circumstances might require.
简而言之，他发现自己陷入了困境，为时已晚。正是当他对自己根本不关心路易莎感到完全满意时，如果她对他的感情如哈维尔夫妇所想的那样，他一定认为自己对她有约束力。他决定离开莱姆，到别处等待她完全康复。他很乐意通过任何公平的手段削弱任何可能存在的关于他的感觉或猜测；因此，他去了他兄弟那里，打算过一段时间后返回凯林奇，并根据情况采取行动。

‘I was six weeks with Edward,’ said he, ‘and saw him happy. I could have no other pleasure. I deserved none. He enquired after you very particularly; asked even if you were personally altered, little suspecting that to my eye you could never alter.’
“我和爱德华待了六个星期，”他说，“看到他很高兴。我没有其他的乐趣。我应得的。他非常特别地询问你的情况；即使你个人被改变了，我也会问，几乎不怀疑在我看来你永远无法改变。

Anne smiled, and let it pass. It was too pleasing a blunder for a reproach. It is something for a woman to be assured, in her eight-and-twentieth year, that she has not lost one charm of earlier youth; but the value of such homage was inexpressibly increased to Anne, by comparing it with former words, and feeling it to be the result, not the cause of a revival of his warm attachment.
安妮笑了笑，就这样过去了。与责备相比，这是一个令人愉快的错误。对于一个女人来说，在她八岁和二十岁的时候，可以确信她并没有失去年轻时的魅力；这是一件值得肯定的事情。但是，通过与以前的话进行比较，安妮感到这种敬意的价值难以言表地增加，并感觉到这是结果，而不是他的热情依恋复活的原因。

He had remained in Shropshire, lamenting the blindness of his own pride, and the blunders of his own calculations, till at once released from Louisa by the astonishing and felicitous intelligence of her engagement with Benwick.
他一直留在什罗普郡，为自己的骄傲的盲目性和自己计算的错误而哀叹，直到路易莎与本威克订婚的惊人而明智的智慧使他立即从路易莎那里解脱出来。

‘Here,’ said he, ‘ended the worst of my state; for now I could at least put myself in the way of happiness; I could exert myself; I could do something. But to be waiting so long in inaction, and waiting only for evil, had been dreadful. Within the first five minutes I said, ‘I will be at Bath on Wednesday,’ and I was. Was it unpardonable to think it worth my while to come? and to arrive with some degree of hope? You were single. It was possible that you might retain the feelings of the past, as I did; and one encouragement happened to be mine. I could never doubt that you would be loved and sought by others, but I knew to a certainty that you had refused one man, at least, of better pretensions than myself; and I could not help often saying, ‘Was this for me?’’
“到这里，”他说，“我最糟糕的状态结束了；现在我至少可以让自己走在幸福的路上；我可以努力；我可以做点什么。但等了这么久却无所作为，等待的只是邪恶，这实在是太可怕了。在最初的五分钟内，我说：“我周三会在巴斯，”我确实做到了。认为我值得花时间来是不可原谅的吗？并带着某种程度的希望到达？你是单身。也许你会像我一样保留着过去的感觉；碰巧我也得到了一份鼓励。我从不怀疑你会受到别人的爱戴和追求，但我确信你拒绝了一个至少比我更有自负的人；我常常情不自禁地说：“这是给我的吗？”

Their first meeting in Milsom Street afforded much to be said, but the concert still more. That evening seemed to be made up of exquisite moments. The moment of her stepping forward in the Octagon Room to speak to him: the moment of Mr Elliot’s appearing and tearing her away, and one or two subsequent moments, marked by returning hope or increasing despondency, were dwelt on with energy.
他们在米尔瑟姆街的第一次见面有很多话可说，但音乐会更值得说。那天晚上似乎充满了美妙的时刻。她在八角形房间里走上前来与他说话的那一刻：埃利奥特先生出现并把她拉走的那一刻，以及随后的一两个时刻，以恢复希望或增加沮丧为标志，都充满了活力。

‘To see you,’ cried he, ‘in the midst of those who could not be my well-wishers; to see your cousin close by you, conversing and smiling, and feel all the horrible eligibilities and proprieties of the match! To consider it as the certain wish of every being who could hope to influence you! Even if your own feelings were reluctant or indifferent, to consider what powerful supports would be his! Was it not enough to make the fool of me which I appeared? How could I look on without agony? Was not the very sight of the friend who sat behind you, was not the recollection of what had been, the knowledge of her influence, the indelible, immoveable impression of what persuasion had once done— was it not all against me?’
“为了在那些不能成为我的祝福者的人中间见到你，”他喊道。看到你的表弟在你身边，交谈着，微笑着，感受比赛中所有可怕的资格和礼节！将其视为每一个希望影响你的人的特定愿望！哪怕自己的感情不情愿或者无所谓，想想他会是多么强大的支持啊！难道我的出现还不足以愚弄我吗？我怎么能不痛苦地看着呢？坐在你身后的那位朋友的一幕，不是对过去发生的事情的回忆，对她的影响的了解，对曾经的劝说所产生的不可磨灭的、不可动摇的印象——这不都是对我不利的吗？

‘You should have distinguished,’ replied Anne. ‘You should not have suspected me now; the case is so different, and my age is so different. If I was wrong in yielding to persuasion once, remember that it was to persuasion exerted on the side of safety, not of risk. When I yielded, I thought it was to duty, but no duty could be called in aid here. In marrying a man indifferent to me, all risk would have been incurred, and all duty violated.’
“你应该看得出来，”安妮回答道。 ‘你现在不应该怀疑我；情况如此不同，我的年龄也如此不同。如果我曾经错误地屈服于说服，请记住，这是为了安全而不是为了风险而进行的说服。当我让步时，我以为这是职责，但这里不能要求任何职责来帮助。嫁给一个对我漠不关心的男人，就会带来所有的风险，所有的义务都会被违反。”

‘Perhaps I ought to have reasoned thus,’ he replied, ‘but I could not. I could not derive benefit from the late knowledge I had acquired of your character. I could not bring it into play; it was overwhelmed, buried, lost in those earlier feelings which I had been smarting under year after year. I could think of you only as one who had yielded, who had given me up, who had been influenced by any one rather than by me. I saw you with the very person who had guided you in that year of misery. I had no reason to believe her of less authority now. The force of habit was to be added.’
“也许我应该这样推理，”他回答道，“但我不能。”我无法从我最近获得的关于你性格的知识中获益。我无法发挥它的作用；它被淹没、埋葬、迷失在那些年复一年令我痛苦的早期感情中。我只能认为你是一个屈服的人，一个放弃了我的人，一个受任何人而不是我影响的人。我看到你和那个在痛苦的一年里引导你的人在一起。我现在没有理由相信她的权威减弱了。习惯的力量还需要加上去。

‘I should have thought,’ said Anne, ‘that my manner to yourself might have spared you much or all of this.’
“我应该想到，”安妮说，“我对自己的态度可能会让你免受很多或全部的痛苦。”

‘No, no! your manner might be only the ease which your engagement to another man would give. I left you in this belief; and yet, I was determined to see you again. My spirits rallied with the morning, and I felt that I had still a motive for remaining here.’
'不，不！你的举止可能只是你与另一个男人订婚时才会表现出来的轻松。我带着这样的信念离开了你；然而，我决心再次见到你。早上我的精神振奋起来，我觉得我还有留在这里的动力。

At last Anne was at home again, and happier than any one in that house could have conceived. All the surprise and suspense, and every other painful part of the morning dissipated by this conversation, she re-entered the house so happy as to be obliged to find an alloy in some momentary apprehensions of its being impossible to last. An interval of meditation, serious and grateful, was the best corrective of everything dangerous in such high-wrought felicity; and she went to her room, and grew steadfast and fearless in the thankfulness of her enjoyment.
安妮终于又回到了家里，她比家里的任何人都想象得幸福。所有的惊讶和悬念，以及早上的所有其他痛苦部分都因这次谈话而消散了，她高兴地重新走进屋子，不得不在一些短暂的忧虑中找到一种混合物，因为它不可能持续下去。认真而感激地沉思一段时间，是对这种高度幸福中的一切危险的最好纠正。她回到自己的房间，对自己的享受感到感激，变得坚定而无所畏惧。

The evening came, the drawing-rooms were lighted up, the company assembled. It was but a card party, it was but a mixture of those who had never met before, and those who met too often; a commonplace business, too numerous for intimacy, too small for variety; but Anne had never found an evening shorter. Glowing and lovely in sensibility and happiness, and more generally admired than she thought about or cared for, she had cheerful or forbearing feelings for every creature around her. Mr Elliot was there; she avoided, but she could pity him. The Wallises, she had amusement in understanding them. Lady Dalrymple and Miss Carteret—they would soon be innoxious cousins to her. She cared not for Mrs Clay, and had nothing to blush for in the public manners of her father and sister. With the Musgroves, there was the happy chat of perfect ease; with Captain Harville, the kind-hearted intercourse of brother and sister; with Lady Russell, attempts at conversation, which a delicious consciousness cut short; with Admiral and Mrs Croft, everything of peculiar cordiality and fervent interest, which the same consciousness sought to conceal; and with Captain Wentworth, some moments of communications continually occurring, and always the hope of more, and always the knowledge of his being there.
夜幕降临，客厅灯火通明，大家都聚集在一起。这只是一场纸牌聚会，只是素未谋面的人和经常见面的人的混合体；一项司空见惯的生意，数量太多，无法亲密，太小，无法多样化；但安妮从未发现过比这更短的夜晚。她在感性和幸福中闪闪发光、可爱，而且比她想象或关心的更普遍的钦佩，她对周围的每一个生物都怀有愉快或隐忍的感情。艾略特先生也在场。她回避，但她可以怜悯他。沃利斯一家，她很高兴了解他们。达尔林普尔夫人和卡特雷特小姐——她们很快就会成为她无害的表亲。她并不关心克莱夫人，也没有什么可因为她父亲和姐姐的公开举止而感到脸红的。和穆斯格罗夫一家在一起时，他们的聊天非常轻松愉快。与哈维尔船长，兄妹般的善意交往；与拉塞尔夫人试图交谈，但美味的意识打断了谈话；与海军上将和克罗夫特夫人相处时，一切都充满了特殊的真诚和热切的兴趣，而同样的意识却试图掩盖这些。与温特沃斯上尉的交流不断发生，总是希望有更多的交流，并且总是知道他在那里。

It was in one of these short meetings, each apparently occupied in admiring a fine display of greenhouse plants, that she said—
正是在其中一次简短的会议上，每个人显然都在欣赏温室植物的精美展示，她说——

‘I have been thinking over the past, and trying impartially to judge of the right and wrong, I mean with regard to myself; and I must believe that I was right, much as I suffered from it, that I was perfectly right in being guided by the friend whom you will love better than you do now. To me, she was in the place of a parent. Do not mistake me, however. I am not saying that she did not err in her advice. It was, perhaps, one of those cases in which advice is good or bad only as the event decides; and for myself, I certainly never should, in any circumstance of tolerable similarity, give such advice. But I mean, that I was right in submitting to her, and that if I had done otherwise, I should have suffered more in continuing the engagement than I did even in giving it up, because I should have suffered in my conscience. I have now, as far as such a sentiment is allowable in human nature, nothing to reproach myself with; and if I mistake not, a strong sense of duty is no bad part of a woman’s portion.’
“我一直在思考过去，并试图公正地判断是非，我指的是对我自己；我必须相信我是对的，尽管我为此感到痛苦，但我受到那位你会比现在更爱的朋友的指导是完全正确的。对我来说，她就相当于父母。不过，请不要误会我的意思。我并不是说她的建议没有错误。这也许是其中一种情况，其中建议的好坏仅取决于事件的结果。对于我自己来说，在任何相似的情况下，我当然不应该给出这样的建议。但我的意思是，我向她屈服是正确的，如果我不这样做，我在继续订婚时会比放弃订婚时遭受更多的痛苦，因为我的良心会受到伤害。现在，只要人性允许有这样的情感，我就没有什么可责备自己的了。如果我没记错的话，强烈的责任感对于女性来说并不是坏事。

He looked at her, looked at Lady Russell, and looking again at her, replied, as if in cool deliberation—
他看看她，看看拉塞尔夫人，又看看她，回答道，仿佛在冷静地思考——

‘Not yet. But there are hopes of her being forgiven in time. I trust to being in charity with her soon. But I too have been thinking over the past, and a question has suggested itself, whether there may not have been one person more my enemy even than that lady? My own self. Tell me if, when I returned to England in the year eight, with a few thousand pounds, and was posted into the Laconia, if I had then written to you, would you have answered my letter? Would you, in short, have renewed the engagement then?’
'还没有。但人们希望她能及时得到原谅。我相信很快就能和她一起参与慈善事业。但我也一直在思考过去的事情，一个问题自然而然地浮现出来，难道没有一个人比那位女士更能成为我的敌人吗？我自己。告诉我，当我第八年带着几千英镑回到英国并被派往拉科尼亚时，如果我当时写信给你，你会回信吗？简而言之，你会续订婚约吗？

‘Would I!’ was all her answer; but the accent was decisive enough.
“我愿意！”她的回答就是这样。但口音足够决定性了。

‘Good God!’ he cried, ‘you would! It is not that I did not think of it, or desire it, as what could alone crown all my other success; but I was proud, too proud to ask again. I did not understand you. I shut my eyes, and would not understand you, or do you justice. This is a recollection which ought to make me forgive every one sooner than myself. Six years of separation and suffering might have been spared. It is a sort of pain, too, which is new to me. I have been used to the gratification of believing myself to earn every blessing that I enjoyed. I have valued myself on honourable toils and just rewards. Like other great men under reverses,’ he added, with a smile. ‘I must endeavour to subdue my mind to my fortune. I must learn to brook being happier than I deserve.’
“天哪！”他喊道，“你会的！”这并不是说我没有想到或渴望它，因为它可以为我所有其他的成功加冕。但我很骄傲，骄傲得不敢再问了。我不明白你。我闭上眼睛，不会理解你，也不会公正地对待你。这段回忆应该让我比我自己更早地原谅所有人。六年的分离和痛苦也许可以幸免。这对我来说也是一种新的痛苦。我已经习惯于相信自己赢得了我所享受的每一个祝福。我以光荣的辛劳和公正的回报来评价自己。就像其他逆境中的伟人一样，”他微笑着补充道。 “我必须努力让我的思想屈服于我的命运。我必须学会忍受比我应得的幸福。

Chapter 24
第24章

Who can be in doubt of what followed? When any two young people take it into their heads to marry, they are pretty sure by perseverance to carry their point, be they ever so poor, or ever so imprudent, or ever so little likely to be necessary to each other’s ultimate comfort. This may be bad morality to conclude with, but I believe it to be truth; and if such parties succeed, how should a Captain Wentworth and an Anne Elliot, with the advantage of maturity of mind, consciousness of right, and one independent fortune between them, fail of bearing down every opposition? They might in fact, have borne down a great deal more than they met with, for there was little to distress them beyond the want of graciousness and warmth. Sir Walter made no objection, and Elizabeth did nothing worse than look cold and unconcerned. Captain Wentworth, with five-and-twenty thousand pounds, and as high in his profession as merit and activity could place him, was no longer nobody. He was now esteemed quite worthy to address the daughter of a foolish, spendthrift baronet, who had not had principle or sense enough to maintain himself in the situation in which Providence had placed him, and who could give his daughter at present but a small part of the share of ten thousand pounds which must be hers hereafter.
谁会对接下来发生的事情产生怀疑呢？当任何两个年轻人决定结婚时，他们都非常有信心通过毅力坚持自己的观点，无论他们多么贫穷，或者多么不谨慎，或者对于彼此的最终舒适来说不太可能是必要的。这样的结论可能是不道德的，但我相信这是事实。如果这样的政党成功了，那么温特沃斯船长和安妮·埃利奥特凭借成熟的思想、正义的意识和共同的独立财富，怎么会不能够压倒一切反对派呢？事实上，他们所承受的苦难可能比他们所遇到的要多得多，因为除了缺乏仁慈和温暖之外，没有什么可以让他们感到痛苦。沃尔特爵士没有反对，伊丽莎白也没有表现出冷漠和漠不关心的样子。温特沃斯上尉拥有五万英镑和两万英镑，并且在他的职业中享有很高的地位和活动，他不再是一个无名小卒。他现在被认为非常有资格向一位愚蠢、挥霍无度的男爵的女儿讲话，这位男爵没有足够的原则或理智来维持自己处于上天把他置于的境地，目前他只能给他女儿一小部分。今后一万英镑的份额一定是她的。

Sir Walter, indeed, though he had no affection for Anne, and no vanity flattered, to make him really happy on the occasion, was very far from thinking it a bad match for her. On the contrary, when he saw more of Captain Wentworth, saw him repeatedly by daylight, and eyed him well, he was very much struck by his personal claims, and felt that his superiority of appearance might be not unfairly balanced against her superiority of rank; and all this, assisted by his well-sounding name, enabled Sir Walter at last to prepare his pen, with a very good grace, for the insertion of the marriage in the volume of honour.
事实上，沃尔特爵士虽然对安妮没有好感，也没有虚荣心，但为了让他在这个场合感到真正高兴，他绝不认为这与她不相配。相反，当他更多地看到温特沃斯上尉，在白天反复见到他，仔细观察他时，他对他的个人主张感到非常震惊，并觉得他的外表优势与她的地位优势可能并没有不公平地平衡。 ;所有这一切，再加上他响亮的名字，使沃尔特爵士最终能够非常优雅地准备好他的笔，将这桩婚姻写入荣誉册。

The only one among them, whose opposition of feeling could excite any serious anxiety was Lady Russell. Anne knew that Lady Russell must be suffering some pain in understanding and relinquishing Mr Elliot, and be making some struggles to become truly acquainted with, and do justice to Captain Wentworth. This however was what Lady Russell had now to do. She must learn to feel that she had been mistaken with regard to both; that she had been unfairly influenced by appearances in each; that because Captain Wentworth’s manners had not suited her own ideas, she had been too quick in suspecting them to indicate a character of dangerous impetuosity; and that because Mr Elliot’s manners had precisely pleased her in their propriety and correctness, their general politeness and suavity, she had been too quick in receiving them as the certain result of the most correct opinions and well-regulated mind. There was nothing less for Lady Russell to do, than to admit that she had been pretty completely wrong, and to take up a new set of opinions and of hopes.
他们中唯一一个感情上的对立会引起严重焦虑的人是拉塞尔夫人。安妮知道，拉塞尔夫人在理解和放弃埃利奥特先生的过程中一定经历了一些痛苦，并付出了一些努力才能真正熟悉温特沃斯上尉，并公正地对待温特沃斯上尉。然而，这正是拉塞尔夫人现在要做的。她必须学会认识到自己在这两方面都错了。每一个人的外表都对她产生了不公平的影响；因为温特沃斯船长的举止不符合她自己的想法，所以她很快就怀疑了他们，以至于没有表现出危险的冲动性格。因为埃利奥特先生的举止恰到好处、正确无误，总体上彬彬有礼，温文尔雅，所以她很快就接受了这些，认为这是最正确的意见和良好的头脑的必然结果。对于罗素夫人来说，除了承认自己完全错误，并接受一套新的观点和希望之外，没有什么比这更好的了。

There is a quickness of perception in some, a nicety in the discernment of character, a natural penetration, in short, which no experience in others can equal, and Lady Russell had been less gifted in this part of understanding than her young friend. But she was a very good woman, and if her second object was to be sensible and well-judging, her first was to see Anne happy. She loved Anne better than she loved her own abilities; and when the awkwardness of the beginning was over, found little hardship in attaching herself as a mother to the man who was securing the happiness of her other child.
有些人有一种敏锐的洞察力，对性格的敏锐洞察力，一种自然的洞察力，简而言之，这是其他人的经验所无法比拟的，而拉塞尔夫人在这方面的理解方面不如她年轻的朋友。但她是一个非常好的女人，如果她的第二个目标是明智和明智的判断，那么她的首要目标就是看到安妮幸福。她爱安妮胜过爱自己的能力。当一开始的尴尬结束后，她发现自己作为一个母亲，依附于这个保障她另一个孩子幸福的男人，并没有什么困难。

Of all the family, Mary was probably the one most immediately gratified by the circumstance. It was creditable to have a sister married, and she might flatter herself with having been greatly instrumental to the connexion, by keeping Anne with her in the autumn; and as her own sister must be better than her husband’s sisters, it was very agreeable that Captain Wentworth should be a richer man than either Captain Benwick or Charles Hayter. She had something to suffer, perhaps, when they came into contact again, in seeing Anne restored to the rights of seniority, and the mistress of a very pretty landaulette; but she had a future to look forward to, of powerful consolation. Anne had no Uppercross Hall before her, no landed estate, no headship of a family; and if they could but keep Captain Wentworth from being made a baronet, she would not change situations with Anne.
在所有家庭中，玛丽可能是最立即对这一情况感到满意的一个。有一个姐姐结婚是值得赞扬的，她可能会自以为在秋天把安妮留在身边，对这段关系起了很大的作用。由于她自己的妹妹一定比她丈夫的妹妹更好，所以温特沃斯上尉比本威克上尉或查尔斯·海特更富有是非常令人愉快的。当他们再次接触时，看到安妮恢复了资历的权利，并且成为了一辆非常漂亮的四轮马车的情妇，她也许会感到有些痛苦。但她有一个值得期待的未来，一个充满力量的安慰。安妮面前没有厄普克罗斯庄园，没有地产，没有一家之主的地位。如果他们能阻止温特沃斯上尉被封为男爵，她就不会改变与安妮的关系。

It would be well for the eldest sister if she were equally satisfied with her situation, for a change is not very probable there. She had soon the mortification of seeing Mr Elliot withdraw, and no one of proper condition has since presented himself to raise even the unfounded hopes which sunk with him.
如果大姐对自己的处境也同样满意的话，那就太好了，因为那里改变的可能性不大。很快，她就看到埃利奥特先生退出而感到羞愧，自那以后，没有一个有条件的人能够亲自提出，甚至连他那毫无根据的希望也随之破灭了。

The news of his cousins Anne’s engagement burst on Mr Elliot most unexpectedly. It deranged his best plan of domestic happiness, his best hope of keeping Sir Walter single by the watchfulness which a son-in-law’s rights would have given. But, though discomfited and disappointed, he could still do something for his own interest and his own enjoyment. He soon quitted Bath; and on Mrs Clay’s quitting it soon afterwards, and being next heard of as established under his protection in London, it was evident how double a game he had been playing, and how determined he was to save himself from being cut out by one artful woman, at least.
埃利奥特先生得知表姐安妮订婚的消息后，感到十分意外。这打乱了他对家庭幸福的最佳计划，打乱了他通过女婿权利所给予的警惕来让沃尔特爵士保持单身的最大希望。但是，尽管感到不安和失望，他仍然可以为自己的兴趣和享受做一些事​​情。他很快就离开了巴斯。克莱夫人不久之后就退出了，并在他的保护下在伦敦建立了下一个听说，很明显他玩的是多么双重的游戏，以及他是如何决心避免自己被一个狡猾的女人淘汰的。 ， 至少。

Mrs Clay’s affections had overpowered her interest, and she had sacrificed, for the young man’s sake, the possibility of scheming longer for Sir Walter. She has abilities, however, as well as affections; and it is now a doubtful point whether his cunning, or hers, may finally carry the day; whether, after preventing her from being the wife of Sir Walter, he may not be wheedled and caressed at last into making her the wife of Sir William.
克莱夫人的感情压倒了她的兴趣，为了这个年轻人，她牺牲了为沃尔特爵士谋划更长时间的可能性。然而，她有能力，也有感情。现在令人怀疑的是，他的狡猾还是她的狡猾最终能否取得胜利？在阻止她成为沃尔特爵士的妻子之后，他是否会最终在哄骗和爱抚下让她成为威廉爵士的妻子。

It cannot be doubted that Sir Walter and Elizabeth were shocked and mortified by the loss of their companion, and the discovery of their deception in her. They had their great cousins, to be sure, to resort to for comfort; but they must long feel that to flatter and follow others, without being flattered and followed in turn, is but a state of half enjoyment.
毫无疑问，沃尔特爵士和伊丽莎白对失去同伴以及发现她的欺骗行为感到震惊和羞愧。毫无疑问，他们有自己的堂兄弟姐妹可以寻求安慰。但他们一定很早就觉得，奉承别人、追随别人，而没有得到别人的奉承和追随，只是一种半享受的状态。

Anne, satisfied at a very early period of Lady Russell’s meaning to love Captain Wentworth as she ought, had no other alloy to the happiness of her prospects than what arose from the consciousness of having no relations to bestow on him which a man of sense could value. There she felt her own inferiority very keenly. The disproportion in their fortune was nothing; it did not give her a moment’s regret; but to have no family to receive and estimate him properly, nothing of respectability, of harmony, of good will to offer in return for all the worth and all the prompt welcome which met her in his brothers and sisters, was a source of as lively pain as her mind could well be sensible of under circumstances of otherwise strong felicity. She had but two friends in the world to add to his list, Lady Russell and Mrs Smith. To those, however, he was very well disposed to attach himself. Lady Russell, in spite of all her former transgressions, he could now value from his heart. While he was not obliged to say that he believed her to have been right in originally dividing them, he was ready to say almost everything else in her favour, and as for Mrs Smith, she had claims of various kinds to recommend her quickly and permanently.
安妮很早就对拉塞尔夫人想要爱温特沃斯船长的意思感到满意，除了意识到自己没有任何有理智的人可以给予他的亲戚外，她对自己的幸福前景没有任何其他的合金。价值。在那里，她非常强烈地感受到自己的自卑。他们的财富不相称并不算什么。这并没有给她带来片刻的遗憾；但是，没有家人来适当地接待和评价他，没有任何可尊敬的、和谐的、善意的东西来回报她在他的兄弟姐妹中遇到的所有价值和所有及时的欢迎，这是一个活跃的源泉。在其他方面都很幸福的情况下，她的心灵很可能感受到痛苦。她在世界上只有两个朋友可以添加到他的名单上，拉塞尔夫人和史密斯夫人。然而，他非常愿意依附于这些人。拉塞尔夫人，尽管她以前有过那么多的过犯，但他现在可以发自内心地珍视她了。虽然他没有义务说他相信她最初划分他们的决定是正确的，但他准备说几乎所有对她有利的事情，至于史密斯夫人，她有各种各样的主张来快速和永久地推荐她。

Her recent good offices by Anne had been enough in themselves, and their marriage, instead of depriving her of one friend, secured her two. She was their earliest visitor in their settled life; and Captain Wentworth, by putting her in the way of recovering her husband’s property in the West Indies, by writing for her, acting for her, and seeing her through all the petty difficulties of the case with the activity and exertion of a fearless man and a determined friend, fully requited the services which she had rendered, or ever meant to render, to his wife.
安妮最近对她的斡旋本身就足够了，他们的婚姻不但没有让她失去一个朋友，反而让她有了两个朋友。她是他们安定生活中最早的访客。温特沃斯上尉，让她陷入了追回她丈夫在西印度群岛的财产的困境，为她写作，为她代理，并以一个无所畏惧的人的行动和努力帮助她解决了案件中的所有小困难，一位坚定的朋友，充分回报了她为他的妻子提供的或曾经打算提供的服务。

Mrs Smith’s enjoyments were not spoiled by this improvement of income, with some improvement of health, and the acquisition of such friends to be often with, for her cheerfulness and mental alacrity did not fail her; and while these prime supplies of good remained, she might have bid defiance even to greater accessions of worldly prosperity. She might have been absolutely rich and perfectly healthy, and yet be happy. Her spring of felicity was in the glow of her spirits, as her friend Anne’s was in the warmth of her heart. Anne was tenderness itself, and she had the full worth of it in Captain Wentworth’s affection. His profession was all that could ever make her friends wish that tenderness less, the dread of a future war all that could dim her sunshine. She gloried in being a sailor’s wife, but she must pay the tax of quick alarm for belonging to that profession which is, if possible, more distinguished in its domestic virtues than in its national importance.
史密斯夫人的快乐并没有因为收入的增加、健康状况的改善以及经常结识这样的朋友而受到破坏，因为她的快乐和精神上的敏捷并没有让她失望。虽然这些主要的商品供应仍然存在，但她甚至可能会蔑视更多的世俗繁荣。她可能绝对富有、完全健康，而且很幸福。她的幸福之泉在于她的精神焕发，就像她的朋友安妮的幸福之泉在于她内心的温暖一样。安妮本身就是温柔的，温特沃斯船长对她的感情充分体现了她的温柔。他的职业使她的朋友们不再希望温柔，对未来战争的恐惧使她的阳光黯淡。她以成为一名水手的妻子而感到自豪，但她必须为属于这个职业而迅速警觉，如果可能的话，这个职业在家庭美德上比在国家重要性上更加杰出。

Finis
菲尼斯