The-Metamorphosis
变形记
The Metamorphosis
变形记
I
II
III
三、

The Metamorphosis
变形记

By Franz Kafka (1915)
弗朗茨·卡夫卡 (1915)

This text is a translation from the German by Ian Johnston, Malaspina University-College Nanaimo, BC. It has been prepared for students in the Liberal Studies and English departments. This document is in the public domain, released, January 1999
本文由不列颠哥伦比亚省纳奈莫马拉斯皮纳大学学院的 Ian Johnston 翻译自德语。它是为通识教育和英语系的学生准备的。本文档属于公共领域，发布于 1999 年 1 月

I

One morning, as Gregor Samsa was waking up from anxious dreams, he discovered that in bed he had been changed into a monstrous verminous bug. He lay on his armour-hard back and saw, as he lifted his head up a little, his brown, arched abdomen divided up into rigid bow-like sections. From this height the blanket, just about ready to slide off completely, could hardly stay in place. His numerous legs, pitifully thin in comparison to the rest of his circumference, flickered helplessly before his eyes.
一天早晨，当格雷戈尔·萨姆沙从焦虑的梦中醒来时，他发现自己在床上变成了一只巨大的害虫。他躺在铠甲坚硬的背上，稍稍抬起头，看到自己棕色的拱形腹部被分成了坚硬的弓状部分。从这个高度来看，几乎要完全滑落的毯子几乎无法保持原位。无数条腿，与他的周长相比，细得可怜，无助地在他眼前闪烁。

‘What’s happened to me,’ he thought. It was no dream. His room, a proper room for a human being, only somewhat too small, lay quietly between the four well-known walls. Above the table, on which an unpacked collection of sample cloth goods was spread out (Samsa was a traveling salesman) hung the picture which he had cut out of an illustrated magazine a little while ago and set in a pretty gilt frame. It was a picture of a woman with a fur hat and a fur boa. She sat erect there, lifting up in the direction of the viewer a solid fur muff into which her entire forearm disappeared.
“我怎么了？”他想。这不是梦。他的房间，一个适合人类居住的房间，只是有点小，安静地坐落在四堵著名的墙壁之间。桌子上方摊开着一堆未包装的布料样品（萨姆沙是一名旅行推销员），上面挂着一张他不久前从一本插图杂志上剪下来的照片，镶嵌在一个漂亮的镀金框架里。那是一张戴着毛皮帽子、围着毛皮围巾的女人的照片。她笔直地坐在那里，朝观众的方向举起一个坚固的毛皮手笼，她的整个前臂都消失在里面。

Gregor’s glance then turned to the window. The dreary weather (the rain drops were falling audibly down on the metal window ledge) made him quite melancholy. ‘Why don’t I keep sleeping for a little while longer and forget all this foolishness,’ he thought. But this was entirely impractical, for he was used to sleeping on his right side, and in his present state he couldn’t get himself into this position. No matter how hard he threw himself onto his right side, he always rolled again onto his back. He must have tried it a hundred times, closing his eyes, so that he would not have to see the wriggling legs, and gave up only when he began to feel a light, dull pain in his side which he had never felt before.
格雷戈尔的目光转向窗户。阴沉的天气（雨滴落在金属窗台上，发出可听见的声音）使他感到十分忧郁。 “我为什么不再多睡一会儿，忘记这一切愚蠢的事情呢？”他想。但这是完全不切实际的，因为他习惯了右侧睡，以他现在的状态，他无法让自己变成这个姿势。无论他多么用力地朝右侧躺，他总是会再次翻身仰面躺着。他肯定已经尝试了一百次了，闭上眼睛，这样他就不必看到蠕动的腿，直到他开始感到身体两侧有一种以前从未感受过的轻微隐痛时，他才放弃。

‘O God,’ he thought, ‘what a demanding job I’ve chosen! Day in, day out on the road. The stresses of trade are much greater than the work going on at head office, and, in addition to that, I have to deal with the problems of traveling, the worries about train connections, irregular bad food, temporary and constantly changing human relationships which never come from the heart. To hell with it all!’ He felt a slight itching on the top of his abdomen. He slowly pushed himself on his back closer to the bed post so that he could lift his head more easily, found the itchy part, which was entirely covered with small white spots (he did not know what to make of them), and wanted to feel the place with a leg. But he retracted it immediately, for the contact felt like a cold shower all over him.
“上帝啊，”他想，“我选择了多么艰巨的工作啊！”日复一日，日复一日地在路上。贸易的压力比在总部的工作要大得多，除此之外，我还必须处理旅行的问题、对火车连接的担忧、不规律的劣质食品、临时且不断变化的人际关系，这些都是我必须面对的。从来都不是发自内心的。让这一切都见鬼去吧！”他感到腹部顶部有轻微的瘙痒。他慢慢地仰面朝床柱靠拢，以便更容易抬起头，找到了痒的地方，那里布满了小白点（他不知道是怎么回事），想用腿感觉这个地方。但他立刻收回了手，因为这种接触感觉就像给他全身泼了冷水。

He slid back again into his earlier position. ‘This getting up early,’ he thought, ‘makes a man quite idiotic. A man must have his sleep. Other traveling salesmen live like harem women. For instance, when I come back to the inn during the course of the morning to write up the necessary orders, these gentlemen are just sitting down to breakfast. If I were to try that with my boss, I’d be thrown out on the spot. Still, who knows whether that mightn’t be really good for me. If I didn’t hold back for my parents’ sake, I would’ve quit ages ago. I would’ve gone to the boss and told him just what I think from the bottom of my heart. He would’ve fallen right off his desk! How weird it is to sit up at the desk and talk down to the employee from way up there. The boss has trouble hearing, so the employee has to step up quite close to him. Anyway, I haven’t completely given up that hope yet. Once I’ve got together the money to pay off the parents’ debt to him—that should take another five or six years—I’ll do it for sure. Then I’ll make the big break. In any case, right now I have to get up. My train leaves at five o’clock.’
他又回到了之前的位置。 “这么早起，”他想，“让一个人变得很白痴。”一个人必须有睡眠。其他旅行推销员的生活就像后宫女人一样。例如，当我早上回到旅馆写下必要的订单时，这些先生们正坐下来吃早餐。如果我和我的老板一起尝试，我会当场被解雇。不过，谁知道这对我是否真的有好处。如果不是为了父母的缘故我忍住了，我早就辞职了。我会去找老板，告诉他我内心的想法。他会直接从桌子上掉下来的！坐在办公桌前居高临下地与上面的员工交谈是多么奇怪的事情。老板听力有困难，所以员工必须走到离他很近的地方。无论如何，我还没有完全放弃这个希望。一旦我凑齐了钱来还清父母欠他的债——这还需要五六年的时间——我肯定会这么做。然后我会取得重大突破。无论如何，现在我必须站起来。我的火车五点钟出发。

And he looked over at the alarm clock ticking away by the chest of drawers. ‘Good God,’ he thought. It was half past six, and the hands were going quietly on. It was past the half hour, already nearly quarter to. Could the alarm have failed to ring? One saw from the bed that it was properly set for four o’clock. Certainly it had rung. Yes, but was it possible to sleep through this noise that made the furniture shake? Now, it’s true he’d not slept quietly, but evidently he’d slept all the more deeply. Still, what should he do now? The next train left at seven o’clock. To catch that one, he would have to go in a mad rush. The sample collection wasn’t packed up yet, and he really didn’t feel particularly fresh and active. And even if he caught the train, there was no avoiding a blow up with the boss, because the firm’s errand boy would’ve waited for the five o’clock train and reported the news of his absence long ago. He was the boss’s minion, without backbone or intelligence. Well then, what if he reported in sick? But that would be extremely embarrassing and suspicious, because during his five years’ service Gregor hadn’t been sick even once. The boss would certainly come with the doctor from the health insurance company and would reproach his parents for their lazy son and cut short all objections with the insurance doctor’s comments; for him everyone was completely healthy but really lazy about work. And besides, would the doctor in this case be totally wrong? Apart from a really excessive drowsiness after the long sleep, Gregor in fact felt quite well and even had a really strong appetite.
他看了看抽屉柜旁滴答作响的闹钟。 “上帝啊，”他想。时间已经六点半了，大家都在安静地进行着。已经过去半个小时了，已经快一刻钟了。难道是闹钟没响？人们从床上看到时间已经正确地定在四点钟了。当然，它已经响过。是的，但是能在家具摇晃的噪音中入睡吗？现在，他确实睡得不安静，但显然睡得更沉了。不过，他现在该怎么办？下一班火车七点钟出发。为了抓住那个人，他必须疯狂地冲去。样品收藏还没有收拾好，他确实感觉不是特别新鲜和活跃。而且就算他赶上了火车，也难免会和老板大发雷霆，因为公司的跑腿早就等了五点钟的火车，早就报告了他缺席的消息。他是老板的爪牙，没有骨气，没有智慧。那么，如果他报告生病了怎么办？但这将是极其尴尬和可疑的，因为在格雷戈尔服役的五年里，他甚至没有生过一次病。老板肯定会带着健康保险公司的医生来，责备父母儿子懒，并用保险公司医生的一句话打断了一切反对；对他来说，每个人都完全健康，但对工作非常懒惰。此外，在这种情况下，医生会不会完全错了？除了长时间睡眠后实在太困之外，格雷戈尔其实感觉还不错，甚至胃口也非常旺盛。

As he was thinking all this over in the greatest haste, without being able to make the decision to get out of bed (the alarm clock was indicating exactly quarter to seven) there was a cautious knock on the door by the head of the bed.
正当他急急忙忙地思考这一切的时候，还来不及做出起床的决定（闹钟指向七点一刻），床头传来小心翼翼的敲门声。

‘Gregor,’ a voice called (it was his mother!) ‘it’s quarter to seven. Don’t you want to be on your way?’ The soft voice! Gregor was startled when he heard his voice answering. It was clearly and unmistakably his earlier voice, but in it was intermingled, as if from below, an irrepressibly painful squeaking which left the words positively distinct only in the first moment and distorted them in the reverberation, so that one didn’t know if one had heard correctly. Gregor wanted to answer in detail and explain everything, but in these circumstances he confined himself to saying, ‘Yes, yes, thank you mother. I’m getting up right away.’ Because of the wooden door the change in Gregor’s voice was not really noticeable outside, so his mother calmed down with this explanation and shuffled off. However, as a result of the short conversation the other family members became aware of the fact that Gregor was unexpectedly still at home, and already his father was knocking on one side door, weakly but with his fist. ‘Gregor, Gregor,’ he called out, ‘what’s going on?’ And after a short while he urged him on again in a deeper voice. ‘Gregor!’ Gregor!’ At the other side door, however, his sister knocked lightly. ‘Gregor? Are you all right? Do you need anything?’ Gregor directed answers in both directions, ‘I’ll be ready right away.’ He made an effort with the most careful articulation and by inserting long pauses between the individual words to remove everything remarkable from his voice. His father turned back to his breakfast. However, the sister whispered, ‘Gregor, open the door, I beg you.’ Gregor had no intention of opening the door, but congratulated himself on his precaution, acquired from traveling, of locking all doors during the night, even at home.
“格雷戈尔，”一个声音喊道（那是他的母亲！）“现在七点一刻了。”你不想走吗？”温柔的声音！当格雷戈尔听到自己的声音回答时，他吃了一惊。清晰无误的是他先前的声音，但其中夹杂着一种难以抑制的痛苦尖叫声，仿佛是从下面传来的，这使得这些话只在第一瞬间就显得十分清晰，并在回响中扭曲了它们，让人不知道是否是这样。人们没有听错。格雷戈尔想详细回答并解释一切，但在这种情况下他只说：“是的，是的，谢谢你妈妈。”我马上就起床。”因为木门的关系，格雷戈尔声音的变化在外面并不太明显，所以他的母亲听了这样的解释平静下来，拖着脚步走开了。然而，经过简短的谈话，其他家庭成员意识到格雷戈尔出乎意料地还在家里，而他的父亲已经用拳头轻轻地敲着一侧的门。 “格雷戈尔，格雷戈尔，”他喊道，“发生了什么事？”过了一会儿，他再次用低沉的声音催促他。 “格雷戈尔！格雷戈尔！”然而，在另一边的门上，他的妹妹轻轻地敲了敲门。 ‘格雷戈尔？你没事儿吧？你需要什么吗？”格雷戈尔向两个方向指示回答，“我马上就准备好。”他努力以最仔细的发音，并在各个单词之间插入长时间的停顿，以消除他声音中的任何非凡之处。他父亲转身继续吃早餐。然而，姐姐低声说道：“格里高尔，开门吧，我求你了。”格里高尔无意开门，但庆幸自己在旅行中养成了谨慎的态度，他在晚上锁上了所有的门，甚至在家里也是如此。

First he wanted to stand up quietly and undisturbed, get dressed, above all have breakfast, and only then consider further action, for (he noticed this clearly) by thinking things over in bed he would not reach a reasonable conclusion. He remembered that he had already often felt a light pain or other in bed, perhaps the result of an awkward lying position, which later turned out to be purely imaginary when he stood up, and he was eager to see how his present fantasies would gradually dissipate. That the change in his voice was nothing other than the onset of a real chill, an occupational illness of commercial travelers, of that he had not the slightest doubt.
他想先安静地站起来，不受打扰地穿好衣服，最重要的是吃早饭，然后再考虑下一步的行动，因为（他清楚地注意到这一点）在床上思考，他不会得出合理的结论。他记得自己在床上时常会感到一阵轻微的疼痛或其他什么的，也许是因为躺着的姿势很尴尬，后来站起来时才发现这纯粹是想象出来的，他很想看看自己现在的幻想会如何逐渐消失。消散。他声音的变化无非是真正的寒意的发作，这是商务旅客的一种职业病，对此他毫不怀疑。

It was very easy to throw aside the blanket. He needed only to push himself up a little, and it fell by itself. But to continue was difficult, particularly because he was so unusually wide. He needed arms and hands to push himself upright. Instead of these, however, he had only many small limbs which were incessantly moving with very different motions and which, in addition, he was unable to control. If he wanted to bend one of them, then it was the first to extend itself, and if he finally succeeded doing with this limb what he wanted, in the meantime all the others, as if left free, moved around in an excessively painful agitation. ‘But I must not stay in bed uselessly,’ said Gregor to himself.
很容易就把毯子扔到一边。他只要把自己往上推一点，它就自己掉下来了。但继续下去很困难，特别是因为他的身躯异常宽阔。他需要手臂和双手才能让自己直立起来。然而，他没有这些，只有许多小肢体，这些小肢体以非常不同的动作不断移动，而且他无法控制。如果他想弯曲其中的一个，那么它就会第一个伸出来，如果他最终成功地用这条肢体做了他想做的事，与此同时，所有其他的肢体，仿佛自由了一样，在极度痛苦的躁动中四处移动。 “但我不能毫无用处地躺在床上，”格里高尔自言自语道。

At first he wanted to get of the bed with the lower part of his body, but this lower part (which he incidentally had not yet looked at and which he also couldn’t picture clearly) proved itself too difficult to move. The attempt went so slowly. When, having become almost frantic, he finally hurled himself forward with all his force and without thinking, he chose his direction incorrectly, and he hit the lower bedpost hard. The violent pain he felt revealed to him that the lower part of his body was at the moment probably the most sensitive.
起初他想用下半身从床上爬起来，但这个下半身（顺便说一句，他还没有看过，也看不清楚）太难移动了。尝试进行得如此缓慢。当他几乎疯狂的时候，终于不假思索地用尽全身力气往前冲时，却选错了方向，重重地撞在了下面的床柱上。剧烈的疼痛让他知道，此刻他的下半身可能是最敏感的。

Thus, he tried to get his upper body out of the bed first and turned his head carefully toward the edge of the bed. He managed to do this easily, and in spite of its width and weight his body mass at last slowly followed the turning of his head. But as he finally raised his head outside the bed in the open air, he became anxious about moving forward any further in this manner, for if he allowed himself eventually to fall by this process, it would take a miracle to prevent his head from getting injured. And at all costs he must not lose consciousness right now. He preferred to remain in bed.
于是，他先尝试将上半身从床上爬起来，小心翼翼地将头转向床边。他轻松地做到了这一点，尽管它很宽很重，但他的身体质量最终还是慢慢地随着他的头转动。但当他终于在床外露天抬起头时，他开始担心以这种方式继续前进，因为如果他最终让自己在这个过程中跌倒，那就需要奇迹才能阻止他的头掉下来。受伤了。而且无论如何，他现在都不能失去知觉。他宁愿留在床上。

However, after a similar effort, while he lay there again sighing as before and once again saw his small limbs fighting one another, if anything worse than before, and didn’t see any chance of imposing quiet and order on this arbitrary movement, he told himself again that he couldn’t possibly remain in bed and that it might be the most reasonable thing to sacrifice everything if there was even the slightest hope of getting himself out of bed in the process. At the same moment, however, he didn’t forget to remind himself from time to time of the fact that calm (indeed the calmest) reflection might be better than the most confused decisions. At such moments, he directed his gaze as precisely as he could toward the window, but unfortunately there was little confident cheer to be had from a glance at the morning mist, which concealed even the other side of the narrow street. ‘It’s already seven o’clock’ he told himself at the latest striking of the alarm clock, ‘already seven o’clock and still such a fog.’ And for a little while longer he lay quietly with weak breathing, as if perhaps waiting for normal and natural conditions to re-emerge out of the complete stillness.
然而，经过同样的努力，当他再次像以前一样躺在那里叹息，再次看到自己的小肢体互相争斗时，如果说有什么比以前更糟糕的话，并且看不到任何对这种随意的动作强加安静和秩序的机会，他他再次告诉自己，他不可能继续躺在床上，如果在这个过程中哪怕有一丝希望让自己起床，那么牺牲一切可能是最合理的事情。但同时，他也不忘记时不时地提醒自己，冷静（实际上是最冷静）的反思或许比最混乱的决定要好。每逢这种时刻，他都会尽可能准确地把目光投向窗外，但不幸的是，看到晨雾的时候，他并没有多少自信的喜悦，甚至连狭窄街道的另一边都被晨雾遮住了。 “已经七点了，”闹钟最后一次敲响时，他告诉自己，“已经七点了，但还是这么大雾。”他又静静地躺了一会儿，呼吸微弱，仿佛在等待。使正常和自然的条件从完全的静止中重新出现。

But then he said to himself, ‘Before it strikes a quarter past seven, whatever happens I must be completely out of bed. Besides, by then someone from the office will arrive to inquire about me, because the office will open before seven o’clock.’ And he made an effort then to rock his entire body length out of the bed with a uniform motion. If he let himself fall out of the bed in this way, his head, which in the course of the fall he intended to lift up sharply, would probably remain uninjured. His back seemed to be hard; nothing would really happen to that as a result of the fall. His greatest reservation was a worry about the loud noise which the fall must create and which presumably would arouse, if not fright, then at least concern on the other side of all the doors. However, it had to be tried.
但随后他对自己说：“在七点一刻之前，无论发生什么，我都必须完全起床。”而且，到时候办公室的人就会过来询问我的情况，因为办公室七点前就开门了。”说着，他用匀速的动作将整个身体从床上摇了起来。如果他就这样从床上掉下来，他在摔倒过程中打算猛地抬起的头很可能不会受伤。他的背似乎很硬；秋天不会真正发生任何事情。他最大的保留是担心坠落时会产生巨大的噪音，这可能会引起所有门的另一边的担忧，如果不是恐惧的话。然而，它必须尝试一下。

As Gregor was in the process of lifting himself half out of bed (the new method was more of a game than an effort; he needed only to rock with a constant rhythm) it struck him how easy all this would be if someone were to come to his aid. Two strong people (he thought of his father and the servant girl) would have been quite sufficient. They would have only had to push their arms under his arched back to get him out of the bed, to bend down with their load, and then merely to exercise patience and care that he completed the flip onto the floor, where his diminutive legs would then, he hoped, acquire a purpose. Now, quite apart from the fact that the doors were locked, should he really call out for help? In spite of all his distress, he was unable to suppress a smile at this idea.
当格雷戈尔正半身起床时（新方法更像是一种游戏，而不是一种努力；他只需要以恒定的节奏摇晃），他突然意识到，如果有人过来，这一切将是多么容易来帮助他。两个强者（他想到了父亲和婢女）就已经足够了。他们只需将手臂推到他弓形的背部下面，把他从床上拉起来，带着他们的重物弯下腰，然后只需要有耐心和小心，他就能完成空翻到地板上，在那里他的小腿会然后，他希望能够找到一个目标。现在，先不说门是锁着的，他真的应该大声呼救吗？尽管他很痛苦，但想到这个想法，他还是忍不住笑了。

He had already got to the point where, with a stronger rocking, he maintained his equilibrium with difficulty, and very soon he would finally have to decide, for in five minutes it would be a quarter past seven. Then there was a ring at the door of the apartment. ‘That’s someone from the office’ he told himself, and he almost froze while his small limbs only danced around all the faster. For one moment everything remained still. ‘They aren’t opening,’ Gregor said to himself, caught up in some absurd hope. But of course then, as usual, the servant girl with her firm tread went to the door and opened it. Gregor needed to hear only the visitor’s first word of greeting to recognize immediately who it was, the manager himself. Why was Gregor the only one condemned to work in a firm where at the slightest lapse someone immediately attracted the greatest suspicion? Were all the employees then collectively, one and all, scoundrels? Was there then among them no truly devoted person who, if he failed to use just a couple of hours in the morning for office work, would become abnormal from pangs of conscience and really be in no state to get out of bed? Was it really not enough to let an apprentice make inquiries, if such questioning was even necessary? Must the manager himself come, and in the process must it be demonstrated to the entire innocent family that the investigation of this suspicious circumstance could only be entrusted to the intelligence of the manager? And more as a consequence of the excited state in which this idea put Gregor than as a result of an actual decision, he swung himself with all his might out of the bed. There was a loud thud, but not a real crash. The fall was absorbed somewhat by the carpet and, in addition, his back was more elastic than Gregor had thought. For that reason the dull noise was not quite so conspicuous. But he had not held his head up with sufficient care and had hit it. He turned his head, irritated and in pain, and rubbed it on the carpet.
他已经到了这样的地步，摇晃得更厉害，他很难保持平衡，很快他就必须做出决定了，因为五分钟后就到了七点十五分。然后公寓门口就响起了铃声。 “那是办公室里的人。”他告诉自己，他几乎僵住了，而他的小四肢却跳得更快。一时间一切都静止了。 “他们不会开门，”格雷戈尔自言自语，陷入了某种荒谬的希望之中。当然，随后，跟往常一样，丫鬟迈着坚定的步伐走到门口，打开了门。格雷戈尔只需要听到来访者的第一句话问候就可以立即认出来者是谁，经理本人。为什么格雷戈尔是唯一一个被判在一家公司工作的人，只要有一点点的失误，就会立即引起最大的怀疑？难道所有的员工统统都是无赖吗？难道他们当中没有真正忠诚的人，如果早上没有花几个小时去办公室工作，就会因为良心的痛苦而变得不正常，真的无法起床吗？如果有必要问的话，让徒弟询问真的还不够吗？经理必须亲自来吗？在此过程中是否必须向整个无辜的家庭表明，对这一可疑情况的调查只能委托给经理的情报人员？与其说是真正的决定，不如说是这个想法让格里高尔兴奋不已，他用尽全力从床上跳了起来。一声巨响，但并不是真正的撞击声。 地毯在一定程度上吸收了坠落的力，此外，他的背部比格雷戈尔想象的更有弹性。因此，沉闷的噪音并不那么明显。但他没有足够小心地抬起头，结果撞到了。他转过头，又恼又痛，在地毯上蹭了蹭。

‘Something has fallen in there,’ said the manager in the next room on the left. Gregor tried to imagine to himself whether anything similar to what was happening to him today could have also happened at some point to the manager. At least one had to concede the possibility of such a thing. However, as if to give a rough answer to this question, the manager now took a few determined steps in the next room, with a squeak of his polished boots. From the neighbouring room on the right the sister was whispering to inform Gregor: ‘Gregor, the manager is here.’ ‘I know,’ said Gregor to himself. But he did not dare make his voice loud enough so that his sister could hear.
“里面有东西掉下来了，”左边隔壁房间的经理说。格雷戈尔试图想象自己今天发生在他身上的类似事情是否也可能在某个时候发生在经理身上。至少人们必须承认这种事情的可能性。然而，似乎是为了给这个问题一个粗略的答案，经理现在在隔壁房间里坚定地迈出了几步，擦得锃亮的靴子发出吱吱的声音。在右边的隔壁房间里，姐姐低声告诉格雷戈尔：“格雷戈尔，经理来了。”“我知道，”格雷戈尔自言自语道。但他不敢把声音开得太大，让妹妹听到。

‘Gregor,’ his father now said from the neighbouring room on the left, ‘Mr. Manager has come and is asking why you have not left on the early train. We don’t know what we should tell him. Besides, he also wants to speak to you personally. So please open the door. He will good enough to forgive the mess in your room.’
“格雷戈尔，”他的父亲现在在左边的隔壁房间里说道，“格雷戈尔先生。”经理来了，问你为什么不乘早班火车离开。我们不知道该告诉他什么。此外，他还想亲自和你谈谈。所以请打开门。他会原谅你房间里的乱七八糟的。

In the middle of all this, the manager called out in a friendly way, ‘Good morning, Mr. Samsa.’ ‘He is not well,’ said his mother to the manager, while his father was still talking at the door, ‘He is not well, believe me, Mr. Manager. Otherwise how would Gregor miss a train! The young man has nothing in his head except business. I’m almost angry that he never goes out at night. Right now he’s been in the city eight days, but he’s been at home every evening. He sits there with us at the table and reads the newspaper quietly or studies his travel schedules. It’s a quite a diversion for him if he busies himself with fretwork. For instance, he cut out a small frame over the course of two or three evenings. You’d be amazed how pretty it is. It’s hanging right inside the room. You’ll see it immediately, as soon as Gregor opens the door. Anyway, I’m happy that you’re here, Mr. Manager. By ourselves, we would never have made Gregor open the door. He’s so stubborn, and he’s certainly not well, although he denied that this morning.’
在这一切中间，经理友好地喊道：“早上好，萨姆萨先生。”“他身体不太好，”他的母亲对经理说，而他的父亲仍在门口说话，“相信我，经理先生，他身体不太好。不然格雷戈尔怎么会错过火车呢！这个年轻人脑子里除了生意之外什么都没有。我几乎要生气他晚上从不出门。现在他已经进城八天了，但每天晚上他都在家。他和我们一起坐在桌旁，安静地阅读报纸或研究他的旅行日程。如果他忙于细工，这对他来说是一种相当大的消遣。例如，他花了两三个晚上剪出了一个小框架。你会惊讶它是多么漂亮。它就挂在房间里面。格雷戈尔一打开门，您就会立即看到它。不管怎样，经理先生，我很高兴你能来。靠我们自己，我们永远不可能让格雷戈尔开门。他太固执了，而且他肯定身体不太好，尽管他今天早上否认了这一点。”

‘I’m coming right away,’ said Gregor slowly and deliberately and didn’t move, so as not to lose one word of the conversation. ‘My dear lady, I cannot explain it to myself in any other way,’ said the manager; ‘I hope it is nothing serious. On the other hand, I must also say that we business people, luckily or unluckily, however one looks at it, very often simply have to overcome a slight indisposition for business reasons.’ ‘So can Mr. Manager come in to see you now’ asked his father impatiently and knocked once again on the door. ‘No,’ said Gregor. In the neighbouring room on the left a painful stillness descended. In the neighbouring room on the right the sister began to sob.
“我马上就来。”格雷戈尔缓慢而谨慎地说，他一动不动，以免漏掉谈话中的一个字。 “亲爱的女士，我无法用任何其他方式向自己解释这一点，”经理说。 “我希望这没什么严重的。另一方面，我也必须说，我们生意人，无论幸运还是不幸，无论从什么角度来看，常常只是因为业务原因而不得不克服轻微的不适。”“那么经理先生现在可以来看你吗？ ”父亲不耐烦地问道，又敲了敲门。 “不，”格雷戈尔说。左边的隔壁房间里一片令人痛苦的寂静。在右边的隔壁房间里，姐姐开始抽泣。

Why didn’t his sister go to the others? She’d probably just gotten up out of bed now and hadn’t even started to get dressed yet. Then why was she crying? Because he wasn’t getting up and wasn’t letting the manager in; because he was in danger of losing his position, and because then his boss would badger his parents once again with the old demands? Those were probably unnecessary worries right now. Gregor was still here and wasn’t thinking at all about abandoning his family. At the moment he was lying right there on the carpet, and no one who knew about his condition would’ve seriously demanded that he let the manager in. But Gregor wouldn’t be casually dismissed right way because of this small discourtesy, for which he would find an easy and suitable excuse later on. It seemed to Gregor that it might be far more reasonable to leave him in peace at the moment, instead of disturbing him with crying and conversation. But it was the very uncertainty which distressed the others and excused their behaviour.
他姐姐为什么不去找其他人呢？她现在可能刚刚起床，甚至还没有开始穿衣服。那她为什么哭呢？因为他没有起身，也不让经理进来；因为他有失去职位的危险，因为那时他的老板会再次用旧的要求纠缠他的父母？现在这些可能都是不必要的担忧。格雷戈尔还在这里，根本没有想过要抛弃他的家人。此刻他正躺在地毯上，任何了解他情况的人都不会认真要求他让经理进来。但是格雷戈尔不会因为这一点小失礼而被随意解雇。稍后他会找到一个简单而合适的借口。格雷戈尔觉得此刻让他安静下来可能更合理，而不是用哭泣和谈话来打扰他。但正是这种不确定性让其他人感到苦恼，并为他们的行为辩解。

‘Mr. Samsa,’ the manager was now shouting, his voice raised, ‘what’s the matter? You are barricading yourself in your room, answer with only a yes and a no, are making serious and unnecessary troubles for your parents, and neglecting (I mention this only incidentally) your commercial duties in a truly unheard of manner. I am speaking here in the name of your parents and your employer, and I am requesting you in all seriousness for an immediate and clear explanation. I am amazed. I am amazed. I thought I knew you as a calm, reasonable person, and now you appear suddenly to want to start parading around in weird moods. The Chief indicated to me earlier this very day a possible explanation for your neglect—it concerned the collection of cash entrusted to you a short while ago—but in truth I almost gave him my word of honour that this explanation could not be correct. However, now I see here your unimaginable pig headedness, and I am totally losing any desire to speak up for you in the slightest. And your position is not at all the most secure. Originally I intended to mention all this to you privately, but since you are letting me waste my time here uselessly, I don’t know why the matter shouldn’t come to the attention of your parents. Your productivity has also been very unsatisfactory recently. Of course, it’s not the time of year to conduct exceptional business, we recognize that, but a time of year for conducting no business, there is no such thing at all, Mr. Samsa, and such a thing must never be.’
'先生。萨姆萨，”经理提高了声音喊道，“出什么事了？你把自己关在房间里，只用“是”和“否”来回答，给你的父母带来严重和不必要的麻烦，并以一种真正闻所未闻的方式忽视（我只是顺便提到这一点）你的商业职责。我在这里代表你父母和雇主的名义发言，我严肃地要求你立即做出明确的解释。我很惊讶。我很惊讶。我以为我认识你是一个冷静、通情达理的人，现在你却突然显得想要以一种奇怪的心情到处炫耀。就在今天早些时候，酋长向我指出了你的疏忽的一个可能的解释——这与不久前委托给你的现金的收取有关——但事实上，我几乎以我的名誉向他保证，这个解释不可能是正确的。可是，现在我看到了你那难以想象的猪头，我已经完全没有了丝毫为你说话的欲望。而且你的地位根本不是最安全的。本来我想私下跟你提这件事，但你让我在这里白白浪费时间，我不知道为什么这件事不应该引起你父母的注意。最近你的生产力也很不理想。当然，我们认识到，现在不是一年中开展特殊业务的时候，但是一年中不开展业务的时候，根本不存在这样的事情，萨姆萨先生，而且决不能有这样的事情。

‘But Mr. Manager,’ called Gregor, beside himself and in his agitation forgetting everything else, ‘I’m opening the door immediately, this very moment. A slight indisposition, a dizzy spell, has prevented me from getting up. I’m still lying in bed right now. But now I’m quite refreshed once again. I’m in the midst of getting out of bed. Just have patience for a short moment! Things are not going so well as I thought. But things are all right. How suddenly this can overcome someone! Just yesterday evening everything was fine with me. My parents certainly know that. Actually just yesterday evening I had a small premonition. People must have seen that in me. Why have I not reported that to the office! But people always think that they’ll get over sickness without having to stay at home. Mr. Manager! Take it easy on my parents! There is really no basis for the criticisms which you are now making against me, and really nobody has said a word to me about that. Perhaps you have not read the latest orders which I shipped. Besides, now I’m setting out on my trip on the eight o’clock train; the few hours’ rest have made me stronger. Mr. Manager, do not stay. I will be at the office in person right away. Please have the goodness to say that and to convey my respects to the Chief.’
“但是经理先生，”格雷戈尔激动得忘记了其他一切，激动地喊道，“我会立即开门，就在此时此刻。”轻微的不适和头晕使我无法起床。我现在还躺在床上。但现在我又神清气爽了。我正要起床。只需要耐心等待一小会儿！事情并没有我想象的那么顺利。但一切都很好。突然间，这可以征服一个人！就在昨天晚上，我一切都很好。我的父母当然知道这一点。其实昨天晚上我就有一种小小的预感。人们一定在我身上看到了这一点。为什么我没有向办公室报告此事！但人们总是认为他们不必呆在家里就能治愈疾病。经理先生！爸爸妈妈就放心吧！你们现在对我的批评确实没有根据，而且实际上没有人对我说过一句话。也许您还没有阅读我发货的最新订单。再说了，现在我要乘八点的火车出发了；几个小时的休息让我变得更加坚强。经理先生，不要留下来。我会亲自到办公室。请您这么说并向酋长转达我的敬意。”

While Gregor was quickly blurting all this out, hardly aware of what he was saying, he had moved close to the chest of drawers without effort, probably as a result of the practice he had already had in bed, and now he was trying to raise himself up on it. Actually, he wanted to open the door; he really wanted to let himself be seen by and to speak with the manager. He was keen to witness what the others now asking after him would say at the sight of him. If they were startled, then Gregor had no more responsibility and could be calm. But if they accepted everything quietly, then he would have no reason to get excited and, if he got a move on, could really be at the station around eight o’clock.
格雷戈尔很快脱口而出，几乎没有意识到自己在说什么，但他毫不费力地靠近了抽屉柜，可能是他在床上已经练习过的结果，现在他正试图抬起头来。他自己对此表示欢迎。事实上，他是想开门；他很想让自己被经理看到并与经理交谈。他很想看看正在追寻他的其他人看到他会说什么。如果他们受到惊吓，那么格雷戈尔就没有更多的责任，可以保持冷静。但如果他们安静地接受一切，那么他就没有理由兴奋，如果他继续前进，八点左右真的可以到达车站。

At first he slid down a few times from the smooth chest of drawers. But at last he gave himself a final swing and stood upright there. He was no longer at all aware of the pains in his lower body, no matter how they might still sting. Now he let himself fall against the back of a nearby chair, on the edge of which he braced himself with his thin limbs. By doing this he gained control over himself and kept quiet, for he could now hear the manager.
起初，他从光滑的抽屉柜上滑下来了几次。但最后他最后一击，站直了。他已经完全没有意识到下半身的疼痛，尽管它们仍然会刺痛。现在他倒在附近一张椅子的靠背上，用瘦弱的四肢支撑着椅子的边缘。通过这样做，他控制了自己并保持安静，因为他现在可以听到经理的声音。

‘Did you understood a single word?’ the manager asked the parents, ‘Is he playing the fool with us?’ ‘For God’s sake,’ cried the mother already in tears, ‘perhaps he’s very ill and we’re upsetting him. Grete! Grete!’ she yelled at that point. ‘Mother?’ called the sister from the other side. They were making themselves understood through Gregor’s room. ‘You must go to the doctor right away. Gregor is sick. Hurry to the doctor. Have you heard Gregor speak yet?’ ‘That was an animal’s voice,’ said the manager, remarkably quietly in comparison to the mother’s cries.
“你们听懂了一个字吗？”经理问父母，“他是在跟我们开玩笑吗？”“看在上帝的份上，”母亲已经泪流满面地喊道，“也许他病得很重，我们让他心烦意乱了。”问候！再见！”她当时喊道。 “妈妈？”对面的妹妹喊道。他们通过格雷戈尔的房间表达自己的意思。 ‘你必须立即去看医生。格雷戈尔病了。赶紧去看医生。 “那是动物的声音，”经理说，与母亲的哭声相比，声音显得格外平静。

‘Anna! Anna!’ yelled the father through the hall into the kitchen, clapping his hands, ‘fetch a locksmith right away!’ The two young women were already running through the hall with swishing skirts (how had his sister dressed herself so quickly?) and yanked open the doors of the apartment. One couldn’t hear the doors closing at all. They probably had left them open, as is customary in an apartment in which a huge misfortune has taken place.
‘安娜！安娜！”父亲拍着手穿过走廊向厨房喊道，“马上去叫锁匠来！”两个年轻女子已经穿着飘动的裙子跑过走廊（他姐姐怎么穿得这么快？）猛地打开公寓的门。人们根本听不到关门的声音。他们可能没有把门打开，就像发生了巨大不幸的公寓里的惯例一样。

However, Gregor had become much calmer. All right, people did not understand his words any more, although they seemed clear enough to him, clearer than previously, perhaps because his ears had gotten used to them. But at least people now thought that things were not all right with him and were prepared to help him. The confidence and assurance with which the first arrangements had been carried out made him feel good. He felt himself included once again in the circle of humanity and was expecting from both the doctor and the locksmith, without differentiating between them with any real precision, splendid and surprising results. In order to get as clear a voice as possible for the critical conversation which was imminent, he coughed a little, and certainly took the trouble to do this in a really subdued way, since it was possible that even this noise sounded like something different from a human cough. He no longer trusted himself to decide any more. Meanwhile in the next room it had become really quiet. Perhaps his parents were sitting with the manager at the table and were whispering; perhaps they were all leaning against the door and listening.
不过，格雷戈尔却变得平静多了。好吧，人们已经听不懂他的话了，尽管他觉得这些话已经足够清楚了，比以前更清楚了，也许是因为他的耳朵已经习惯了。但至少现在人们认为他的情况不太对劲，并准备帮助他。最初的安排所表现出的信心和保证让他感觉良好。他感觉自己再次融入了人类的圈子，并期待着医生和锁匠的到来，但没有任何真正精确、辉煌和令人惊讶的结果来区分他们。为了在即将到来的关键谈话中获得尽可能清晰的声音，他轻轻咳嗽了一声，而且确实不厌其烦地以一种非常压抑的方式做到这一点，因为即使这种噪音听起来也可能不同于其他声音。人类的咳嗽。他不再相信自己能做出决定。与此同时，隔壁房间里变得非常安静。也许他的父母正和经理坐在桌边窃窃私语；也许他们都靠在门上听着。

Gregor pushed himself slowly towards the door, with the help of the easy chair, let go of it there, threw himself against the door, held himself upright against it (the balls of his tiny limbs had a little sticky stuff on them), and rested there momentarily from his exertion. Then he made an effort to turn the key in the lock with his mouth. Unfortunately it seemed that he had no real teeth. How then was he to grab hold of the key? But to make up for that his jaws were naturally very strong; with their help he managed to get the key really moving, and he did not notice that he was obviously inflicting some damage on himself, for a brown fluid came out of his mouth, flowed over the key, and dripped onto the floor.
格雷戈尔在安乐椅的帮助下，慢慢地向门口推去，把它放开，靠在门上，使自己直立在门上（他的小四肢上沾满了一些粘稠的东西），然后他在那里休息片刻，摆脱了劳累。然后他用嘴用力转动钥匙插进锁里。不幸的是，他似乎没有真正的牙齿。那么他要怎样才能拿到钥匙呢？但为了弥补这一点，他的下巴天生就非常强壮；在他们的帮助下，他设法让钥匙真正动起来，他没有注意到他显然对自己造成了一些伤害，因为一种棕色的液体从他嘴里流出来，流过钥匙，滴到地板上。

‘Just listen for a moment,’ said the manager in the next room, ‘he’s turning the key.’ For Gregor that was a great encouragement. But they all should’ve called out to him, including his father and mother, ‘Come on, Gregor,’ they should’ve shouted, ‘keep going, keep working on the lock.’ Imagining that all his efforts were being followed with suspense, he bit down frantically on the key with all the force he could muster. As the key turned more, he danced around the lock. Now he was holding himself upright only with his mouth, and he had to hang onto the key or then press it down again with the whole weight of his body, as necessary. The quite distinct click of the lock as it finally snapped really woke Gregor up. Breathing heavily he said to himself, ‘So I didn’t need the locksmith,’ and he set his head against the door handle to open the door completely.
“听一下，”隔壁房间的经理说，“他正在转动钥匙。”对格雷戈尔来说，这是一个巨大的鼓励。但他们都应该喊他，包括他的父亲和母亲，“来吧，格雷戈尔，”他们应该喊道，“继续前进，继续开锁。”想象他所有的努力都在跟随他悬念之下，他用尽全力疯狂地咬住了琴键。随着钥匙转动得更多，他绕着锁跳舞。现在他只能用嘴把自己保持直立，必要时他必须抓住钥匙，或者用全身重量再次按下它。锁最终折断时发出的非常明显的咔哒声确实把格雷戈尔吵醒了。他气喘吁吁地对自己说：“所以我不需要锁匠了。”然后他把头靠在门把手上，把门完全打开了。

Because he had to open the door in this way, it was already open very wide without him yet being really visible. He first had to turn himself slowly around the edge of the door, very carefully, of course, if he did not want to fall awkwardly on his back right at the entrance into the room. He was still preoccupied with this difficult movement and had no time to pay attention to anything else, when he heard the manager exclaim a loud ‘Oh!’ (it sounded like the wind whistling), and now he saw him, nearest to the door, pressing his hand against his open mouth and moving slowly back, as if an invisible constant force was pushing him away. His mother (in spite of the presence of the manager she was standing here with her hair sticking up on end, still a mess from the night) with her hands clasped was looking at his father; she then went two steps towards Gregor and collapsed right in the middle of her skirts spreading out all around her, her face sunk on her breast, completely concealed. His father clenched his fist with a hostile expression, as if he wished to push Gregor back into his room, then looked uncertainly around the living room, covered his eyes with his hands, and cried so that his mighty breast shook.
因为他必须这样打开门，所以门已经开得很开，而他却还没有真正被看见。他首先必须慢慢地绕着门的边缘转动自己，当然要非常小心，如果他不想在房间入口处尴尬地仰面倒地的话。他正全神贯注于这个高难度的动作，无暇顾及其他，就听到经理“哎呀！”的一声大叫（听起来像风呼啸的声音），这时候他就看到了他，就在离门口最近的地方。 ，将手按在张开的嘴上，然后慢慢向后移动，仿佛有一股无形的恒定力量正在把他推开。他的母亲（尽管有经理在场，但她仍头发竖立在这里，仍然是昨晚的一团糟）双手紧握，看着他的父亲；然后她朝格雷戈尔走了两步，倒在裙子中间，裙子向四周展开，脸埋在胸前，完全被遮住了。父亲一脸敌意地握紧了拳头，似乎要把格雷戈尔推回自己的房间，然后犹豫地环顾客厅，用手捂住眼睛，哭得他雄伟的胸膛都在颤抖。

At this point Gregor did not take one step into the room, but leaned his body from the inside against the firmly bolted wing of the door, so that only half his body was visible, as well as his head, titled sideways, with which he peeped over at the others. Meanwhile it had become much brighter. Standing out clearly from the other side of the street was a part of the endless gray-black house situated opposite (it was a hospital) with its severe regular windows breaking up the facade. The rain was still coming down, but only in large individual drops visibly and firmly thrown down one by one onto the ground. The breakfast dishes were standing piled around on the table, because for his father breakfast was the most important meal time in the day, which he prolonged for hours by reading various newspapers. Directly across on the opposite wall hung a photograph of Gregor from the time of his military service; it was a picture of him as a lieutenant, as he, smiling and worry free, with his hand on his sword, demanded respect for his bearing and uniform. The door to the hall was ajar, and since the door to the apartment was also open, one saw out into the landing of the apartment and the start of the staircase going down.
此时格雷戈尔没有迈进房间一步，而是将身体从里面靠在门上，这样只能看到他的半个身体，还有他的头，他歪着头，偷看其他人。与此同时，它变得更加明亮。从街道的另一边清晰可见的是对面那座无尽的灰黑色房子的一部分（那是一家医院），其严格的规则窗户打破了正面。雨还在下，但只是大颗大颗的雨滴，一滴一滴地落在地上。早餐盘子堆在桌子上，因为对父亲来说，早餐是一天中最重要的进餐时间，他通过阅读各种报纸来延长几个小时的时间。对面的墙上挂着一张格雷戈尔服兵役时的照片。这是他作为一名中尉的照片，他微笑着，无忧无虑，手放在剑上，要求人们尊重他的举止和制服。大厅的门半开着，而公寓的门也开着，人们可以看到公寓的平台和向下的楼梯的起点。

‘Now,’ said Gregor, well aware that he was the only one who had kept his composure. ‘I’ll get dressed right away, pack up the collection of samples, and set off. You’ll allow me to set out on my way, will you not? You see, Mr. Manager, I am not pig-headed, and I am happy to work. Traveling is exhausting, but I couldn’t live without it. Where are you going, Mr. Manager? To the office? Really? Will you report everything truthfully? A person can be incapable of work momentarily, but that is precisely the best time to remember the earlier achievements and to consider that later, after the obstacles have been shoved aside, the person will work all the more keenly and intensely. I am really so indebted to Mr. Chief—you know that perfectly well. On the other hand, I am concerned about my parents and my sister. I’m in a fix, but I’ll work myself out of it again. Don’t make things more difficult for me than they already are. Speak up on my behalf in the office! People don’t like traveling salesmen. I know that. People think they earn pots of money and thus lead a fine life. People don’t even have any special reason to think through this judgment more clearly. But you, Mr. Manager, you have a better perspective on the interconnections than the other people, even, I tell you in total confidence, a better perspective than Mr. Chairman himself, who in his capacity as the employer may let his judgment make casual mistakes at the expense of an employee. You also know well enough that the traveling salesman who is outside the office almost the entire year can become so easily a victim of gossip, coincidences, and groundless complaints, against which it’s impossible for him to defend himself, since for the most part he doesn’t hear about them at all and only then when he’s exhausted after finishing a trip, and gets to feel in his own body at home the nasty consequences, which can’t be thoroughly explored back to their origins. Mr. Manager, don’t leave without speaking a word telling me that you’ll at least concede that I’m a little in the right!’
“现在，”格雷戈尔说，他很清楚自己是唯一保持镇静的人。 “我马上穿好衣服，收拾好收集的样品，然后出发。”你会让我上路的，不是吗？经理先生您看，我不固执，工作也很开心。旅行很累，但没有它我就活不下去。经理先生，您要去哪里？去办公室？真的吗？你会如实报告一切吗？一个人可能会暂时无法工作，但这恰恰是最好的时机，可以记住以前的成绩，并考虑到以后，当障碍被推开后，这个人会更加敏锐和激烈地工作。我真的非常感谢酋长先生——你非常清楚这一点。另一方面，我又担心我的父母和妹妹。我已经陷入困境，但我会再次努力摆脱困境。不要让事情变得比现在更困难。在办公室代表我发言！人们不喜欢旅行推销员。我知道。人们认为他们赚了很多钱，从而过上了美好的生活。人们甚至没有任何特殊的理由来更清楚地思考这个判断。但是，经理先生，您对相互关系的看法比其他人更好，甚至，我完全有信心地告诉您，比主席先生本人有更好的看法，主席先生以雇主的身份可能会做出自己的判断以牺牲员工利益为代价的偶然错误。 你也很清楚，几乎全年不在办公室的旅行推销员很容易成为流言蜚语、巧合和毫无根据的抱怨的受害者，对此他无法为自己辩护，因为在大多数情况下他不这样做根本没有听说过它们，只有当他结束一次旅行后筋疲力尽，并在家里自己的身体中感受到令人讨厌的后果时，这些后果无法彻底探究其根源。经理先生，走的时候别不说一句话，至少要承认我是对的！’

But at Gregor’s first words the manager had already turned away, and now he looked back at Gregor over his twitching shoulders with pursed lips. During Gregor’s speech he was not still for a moment, but was moving away towards the door, without taking his eyes off Gregor, but really gradually, as if there was a secret ban on leaving the room. He was already in the hall, and after the sudden movement with which he finally pulled his foot out of the living room, one could have believed that he had just burned the sole of his foot. In the hall, however, he stretched out his right hand away from his body towards the staircase, as if some truly supernatural relief was waiting for him there.
但格雷戈尔一开口，经理就转过身去，现在他噘起嘴唇，越过抽搐的肩膀回头看着格雷戈尔。格雷戈尔说话的时候，他一刻也没有静止，而是朝门口走去，眼睛没有离开格雷戈尔，而是慢慢地，仿佛有秘密禁止离开房间。他已经在大厅里了，在他突然把脚从客厅里抽出来之后，人们几乎可以相信他刚刚烧伤了脚底。然而，在大厅里，他将右手从身体上伸出，朝着楼梯方向伸出，仿佛有某种真正超自然的解脱正在那里等待着他。

Gregor realized that he must not under any circumstances allow the manager to go away in this frame of mind, especially if his position in the firm was not to be placed in the greatest danger. His parents did not understand all this very well. Over the long years, they had developed the conviction that Gregor was set up for life in his firm and, in addition, they had so much to do nowadays with their present troubles that all foresight was foreign to them. But Gregor had this foresight. The manager must be held back, calmed down, convinced, and finally won over. The future of Gregor and his family really depended on it! If only the sister had been there! She was clever. She had already cried while Gregor was still lying quietly on his back. And the manager, this friend of the ladies, would certainly let himself be guided by her. She would have closed the door to the apartment and talked him out of his fright in the hall. But the sister was not even there. Gregor must deal with it himself.
格雷戈尔意识到，在任何情况下，他都不能让经理带着这种心态离开，特别是如果他不想让他在公司的职位面临最大的危险的话。他的父母对这一切不太理解。在漫长的岁月里，他们逐渐相信格雷戈尔注定会在他的公司里度过一生，此外，他们现在还有很多事情要做，要解决目前的麻烦，所以所有的远见对他们来说都是陌生的。但格雷戈尔有这种先见之明。必须对经理进行遏制、冷静、说服，并最终赢得胜利。格雷戈尔和他家人的未来真的取决于它！要是姐姐在就好了！她很聪明。当格雷戈尔还静静地仰卧着时，她已经哭了。而经理，这位女士们的朋友，肯定会让自己接受她的指导。她会关上公寓的门，并在大厅里劝说他摆脱恐惧。但姐姐根本不在那儿。格雷戈尔必须亲自处理这件事。

Without thinking that as yet he didn’t know anything about his present ability to move and without thinking that his speech possibly (indeed probably) had once again not been understood, he left the wing of the door, pushed himself through the opening, and wanted to go over to the manager, who was already holding tight onto the handrail with both hands on the landing in a ridiculous way. But as he looked for something to hold onto, with a small scream Gregor immediately fell down onto his numerous little legs. Scarcely had this happened, when he felt for the first time that morning a general physical well being. The small limbs had firm floor under them; they obeyed perfectly, as he noticed to his joy, and strove to carry him forward in the direction he wanted. Right away he believed that the final amelioration of all his suffering was immediately at hand. But at the very moment when he lay on the floor rocking in a restrained manner quite close and directly across from his mother (apparently totally sunk into herself) she suddenly sprang right up with her arms spread far apart and her fingers extended and cried out, ‘Help, for God’s sake, help!’ She held her head bowed down, as if she wanted to view Gregor better, but ran senselessly back, contradicting that gesture, forgetting that behind her stood the table with all the dishes on it. When she reached the table, she sat down heavily on it, as if absent-mindedly, and did not appear to notice at all that next to her coffee was pouring out onto the carpet in a full stream from the large overturned container.
他没有想到他对自己目前的移动能力一无所知，也没有想到他的讲话可能（确实可能）再次没有被理解，他离开了门翼，将自己推入了开口，然后想要走到经理那里，经理已经用双手紧紧抓住楼梯平台上的扶手，动作可笑。但当他寻找可以抓住的东西时，随着一声轻微的尖叫，格雷戈尔立即倒在了他无数的小腿上。这一切刚发生，那天早上他就第一次感觉到身体健康。小四肢下面有坚实的地板；他们完全服从了，他高兴地注意到，并努力带他朝他想要的方向前进。他立刻相信他所有的痛苦即将得到最终的缓解。但就在他躺在地板上，以一种克制的方式摇晃着，距离他母亲非常近的地方（显然完全沉浸在自己之中）时，她突然跳了起来，双臂张开，手指伸出，大声喊道： “救命，看在上帝的份上，救命！”她低着头，似乎想更好地观察格雷戈尔，但她却毫无知觉地跑了回去，与她的姿势相矛盾，忘记了她身后放着一张桌子，上面摆着所有的菜肴。当她走到桌边时，她重重地坐在上面，仿佛心不在焉，似乎根本没有注意到她旁边的咖啡正从翻倒的大容器里源源不断地倒在地毯上。

‘Mother, mother,’ said Gregor quietly, and looked over towards her. The manager momentarily had disappeared completely from his mind; by contrast, at the sight of the flowing coffee he couldn’t stop himself snapping his jaws in the air a few times . At that his mother screamed all over again, hurried from the table, and collapsed into the arms of his father, who was rushing towards her. But Gregor had no time right now for his parents: the manager was already on the staircase. His chin level with the banister, the manager looked back for the last time. Gregor took an initial movement to catch up to him if possible. But the manager must have suspected something, because he made a leap down over a few stairs and disappeared, still shouting ‘Huh!’ The sound echoed throughout the entire stairwell.
“妈妈，妈妈，”格雷戈尔轻声说道，并看着她。经理瞬间从他的脑海中完全消失了。相比之下，一看到流淌的咖啡，他就忍不住张大了嘴巴。母亲听了又尖叫起来，急忙从桌子上跑下来，倒在向她冲过来的父亲怀里。但格雷戈尔现在没有时间陪父母：经理已经在楼梯上了。经理的下巴与栏杆齐平，最后一次回头看了一眼。如果可能的话，格雷戈尔采取了初步行动以追上他。但经理一定是有所怀疑，因为他纵身跃下几级楼梯就不见了踪影，还“啊！”的叫声响彻了整个楼梯间。

Now, unfortunately this flight of the manager also seemed completely to bewilder his father, who earlier had been relatively calm, for instead of running after the manager himself or at least not hindering Gregor from his pursuit, with his right hand he grabbed hold of the manager’s cane, which he had left behind with his hat and overcoat on a chair. With his left hand, his father picked up a large newspaper from the table and, stamping his feet on the floor, he set out to drive Gregor back into his room by waving the cane and the newspaper. No request of Gregor’s was of any use; no request would even be understood. No matter how willing he was to turn his head respectfully, his father just stomped all the harder with his feet.
现在，不幸的是，经理的这次逃跑似乎也完全让他的父亲感到困惑，他早些时候还相对平静，因为他没有追赶经理本人，或者至少没有阻止格雷戈尔的追击，而是用右手抓住了经理的手。经理的手杖，他把它和帽子和大衣一起留在了椅子上。父亲用左手从桌上拿起一张大报纸，双脚跺在地板上，挥舞着手杖和报纸，准备把格雷戈尔赶回自己的房间。格雷戈尔的要求没有任何用处。任何请求都不会被理解。无论他多么愿意恭敬地转过头，父亲的脚却越踩越重。

Across the room from him his mother had pulled open a window, in spite of the cool weather, and leaning out with her hands on her cheeks, she pushed her face far outside the window. Between the alley and the stair well a strong draught came up, the curtains on the window flew around, the newspapers on the table swished, and individual sheets fluttered down over the floor. The father relentlessly pressed forward pushing out sibilants, like a wild man. Now, Gregor had no practice at all in going backwards; it was really going very slowly. If Gregor only had been allowed to turn himself around, he would have been in his room right away, but he was afraid to make his father impatient by the time-consuming process of turning around, and each moment he faced the threat of a mortal blow on his back or his head from the cane in his father’s hand. Finally Gregor had no other option, for he noticed with horror that he did not understand yet how to maintain his direction going backwards. And so he began, amid constantly anxious sideways glances in his father’s direction, to turn himself around as quickly as possible (although in truth this was only very slowly). Perhaps his father noticed his good intentions, for he did not disrupt Gregor in this motion, but with the tip of the cane from a distance he even directed here and there Gregor’s rotating movement.
尽管天气凉爽，他房间对面的母亲还是拉开了一扇窗户，她探出身子，双手放在脸颊上，把脸远远地推到窗外。巷子和楼梯井之间刮起了一股强劲的风，窗帘飞扬，桌上的报纸沙沙作响，一张张纸飘落到地板上。父亲像个野人一样，毫不留情地向前推进，发出咝咝声。现在，格雷戈尔根本没有倒退的习惯。事情确实进展得很慢。如果格雷戈尔只被允许翻身，他就会立刻回到自己的房间，但他担心翻身的耗时过程会让父亲不耐烦，而且每时每刻都面临着凡人的威胁。用他父亲手中的拐杖吹他的背或头。最后格雷戈尔别无选择，因为他惊恐地发现自己还不明白如何保持倒退的方向。于是，他开始在不断焦虑地斜视父亲的方向的同时，尽快转身（尽管事实上这只是非常缓慢的）。也许他的父亲看出了他的好意，他并没有打扰格里高尔的这个动作，反而还远远地用拐杖尖指挥着格里高尔的旋转动作。

If only there hadn’t been his father’s unbearable hissing! Because of that Gregor totally lost his head. He was already almost totally turned around, when, always with this hissing in his ear, he just made a mistake and turned himself back a little. But when he finally was successful in getting his head in front of the door opening, it became clear that his body was too wide to go through any further. Naturally his father, in his present mental state, had no idea of opening the other wing of the door a bit to create a suitable passage for Gregor to get through. His single fixed thought was that Gregor must get into his room as quickly as possible. He would never have allowed the elaborate preparations that Gregor required to orient himself and thus perhaps get through the door. On the contrary, as if there were no obstacle and with a peculiar noise, he now drove Gregor forwards. Behind Gregor the sound was at this point no longer like the voice of only a single father. Now it was really no longer a joke, and Gregor forced himself, come what might, into the door. One side of his body was lifted up. He lay at an angle in the door opening. His one flank was sore with the scraping. On the white door ugly blotches were left. Soon he was stuck fast and would have not been able to move any more on his own. The tiny legs on one side hung twitching in the air above, the ones on the other side were pushed painfully into the floor. Then his father gave him one really strong liberating push from behind, and he scurried, bleeding severely, far into the interior of his room. The door was slammed shut with the cane, and finally it was quiet.
要是没有他父亲那令人难以忍受的嘶嘶声就好了！正因为如此，格雷戈尔彻底失去了理智。他已经几乎完全转过身来，耳边总是伴随着这种嘶嘶声，他只是犯了一个错误，把自己转了回来一点。但当他最终成功地将头伸到门洞前时，很明显他的身体太宽了，无法再通过了。当然，以他现在的精神状态，他的父亲并没有想法将门的另一侧打开一点，为格雷戈尔创造一个合适的通道。他唯一的固定想法是格雷戈尔必须尽快进入他的房间。他绝不会允许格雷戈尔进行精心准备，以调整自己的方向，从而也许可以穿过门。相反，他就像没有任何障碍一样，带着一种特殊的声音，驱赶着格雷戈尔向前走。格雷戈尔身后的声音此时不再像是一个单身父亲的声音。现在这真的不再是一个玩笑了，格雷戈尔强迫自己，无论发生什么，进了门。他身体的一侧被举了起来。他斜躺在门洞里。他的一侧肋骨因刮擦而疼痛。白色的门上留下了丑陋的斑点。很快他就被卡住了，无法再靠自己移动了。一侧的小腿悬在空中抽搐，另一侧的则痛苦地被推到地板上。然后他的父亲从后面给了他一记非常有力的推力，让他摆脱了束缚，他流着严重的血，急忙跑进了自己房间的深处。门被人用拐杖重重地关上，终于安静了。

II

Gregor first woke up from his heavy swoon-like sleep in the evening twilight. He would certainly have woken up soon afterwards without any disturbance, for he felt himself sufficiently rested and wide awake, although it appeared to him as if a hurried step and a cautious closing of the door to the hall had aroused him. The shine of the electric streetlights lay pale here and there on the ceiling and on the higher parts of the furniture, but underneath around Gregor it was dark. He pushed himself slowly toward the door, still groping awkwardly with his feelers, which he now learned to value for the first time, to check what was happening there. His left side seemed one single long unpleasantly stretched scar, and he really had to hobble on his two rows of legs. In addition, one small leg had been seriously wounded in the course of the morning incident (it was almost a miracle that only one had been hurt) and dragged lifelessly behind.
格雷戈尔在傍晚的暮色中第一次从昏昏欲睡的睡眠中醒来。他肯定很快就会醒来，不会受到任何干扰，因为他感觉自己已经充分休息并且完全清醒，尽管在他看来，好像是一阵匆忙的脚步和小心翼翼地关上大厅的门把他惊醒了。电灯的光芒在天花板和家具的较高部分上到处都是苍白的，但格雷戈尔周围的下面却是黑暗的。他慢慢地将自己推向门口，仍然用触角笨拙地摸索着，现在他第一次学会了重视触角，检查那里发生了什么。他的左侧似乎有一条长长的、令人不舒服的疤痕，他真的不得不用他的两排腿一瘸一拐地走。另外，一条小腿在早上的事件中受了重伤（只有一条受伤几乎是一个奇迹），被拖在后面毫无生气。

By the door he first noticed what had really lured him there: it was the smell of something to eat. For there stood a bowl filled with sweetened milk, in which swam tiny pieces of white bread. He almost laughed with joy, for he now had a much greater hunger than in the morning, and he immediately dipped his head almost up to and over his eyes down into the milk. But he soon drew it back again in disappointment, not just because it was difficult for him to eat on account of his delicate left side (he could eat only if his entire panting body worked in a coordinated way), but also because the milk, which otherwise was his favorite drink and which his sister had certainly placed there for that reason, did not appeal to him at all. He turned away from the bowl almost with aversion and crept back into the middle of the room.
在门口，他首先注意到真正吸引他来这里的东西：是食物的气味。因为那里放着一个盛满甜牛奶的碗，里面游着小块的白面包。他几乎高兴地笑了，因为他现在比早上更饿了，他立即把头低到几乎高过眼睛的地方，伸进牛奶里。但很快他又失望地收回来，不仅仅是因为他的左侧身体娇弱，吃东西很困难（只有整个气喘吁吁的身体协调起来才能吃东西），还因为牛奶，这本来是他最喜欢的饮料，他的妹妹肯定就是因为这个原因才放在那里的，但对他来说根本没有吸引力。他几乎厌恶地转身离​​开碗，蹑手蹑脚地回到房间中央。

In the living room, as Gregor saw through the crack in the door, the gas was lit, but where on other occasions at this time of day the father was accustomed to read the afternoon newspaper in a loud voice to his mother and sometimes also to his sister, at the moment not a sound was audible. Now, perhaps this reading aloud, about which his sister always spoken and written to him, had recently fallen out of their general routine. But it was so still all around, in spite of the fact that the apartment was certainly not empty. ‘What a quiet life the family leads’, said Gregor to himself and, as he stared fixedly out in front of him into the darkness, he felt a great pride that he had been able to provide such a life in a beautiful apartment like this for his parents and his sister. But how would things go if now all tranquillity, all prosperity, all contentment should come to a horrible end? In order not to lose himself in such thoughts, Gregor preferred to set himself moving and crawled up and down in his room.
客厅里，格雷戈尔透过门缝看到煤气灯已经点燃了，但在其他场合，在一天中的这个时候，父亲习惯于大声给母亲读下午的报纸，有时也给母亲朗读。他的妹妹，此刻却没有发出任何声音。现在，也许他的姐姐经常向他谈论和写信给他讲的这种大声朗读，最近已经不再是他们的日常活动了。尽管公寓里肯定不是空的，但周围却是如此的安静。 “这个家庭过着多么安静的生活啊”，格雷戈尔自言自语道，当他目不转睛地凝视着前方的黑暗时，他感到非常自豪，因为他能够在这样一间漂亮的公寓里过着这样的生活。为了他的父母和妹妹。但是，如果现在所有的安宁、所有的繁荣、所有的满足都以可怕的方式结束，事情会怎样呢？为了不让自己陷入这样的想法，格雷戈尔宁愿让自己动起来，在房间里爬上爬下。

Once during the long evening one side door and then the other door was opened just a tiny crack and quickly closed again. Someone presumably needed to come in but had then thought better of it. Gregor immediately took up a position by the living room door, determined to bring in the hesitant visitor somehow or other or at least to find out who it might be. But now the door was not opened any more, and Gregor waited in vain. Earlier, when the door had been barred, they had all wanted to come in to him; now, when he had opened one door and when the others had obviously been opened during the day, no one came any more, and the keys were stuck in the locks on the outside.
有一次，在那个漫长的夜晚，一侧的门被打开了一条小缝，然后另一侧的门又很快地关上了。大概有人需要进来，但后来又考虑了。格雷戈尔立即在客厅门口占据了一个位置，决定以某种方式把这位犹豫不决的访客带进来，或者至少找出他可能是谁。但现在门再也没有打开，格里高尔白等了。早些时候，当门被关上时，他们都想进来见他；但现在他们都想进来见他。现在，当他打开一扇门并且其他门显然是白天打开的时候，就没有人来了，钥匙插在外面的锁里。

The light in the living room was turned off only late at night, and now it was easy to establish that his parents and his sister had stayed awake all this time, for one could hear clearly as all three moved away on tiptoe. Now it was certain that no one would come into Gregor any more until the morning. Thus, he had a long time to think undisturbed about how he should reorganize his life from scratch. But the high, open room, in which he was compelled to lie flat on the floor, made him anxious, without his being able to figure out the reason, for he had lived in the room for five years. With a half unconscious turn and not without a slight shame he scurried under the couch, where, in spite of the fact that his back was a little cramped and he could no longer lift up his head, he felt very comfortable and was sorry only that his body was too wide to fit completely under it.
客厅的灯直到深夜才关掉，现在很容易就能看出他的父母和妹妹一直没睡，因为三人踮着脚尖走开的声音听得一清二楚。现在可以肯定的是，直到早上，没有人会再进入格雷戈尔。于是，他有很长一段时间静心思考，该如何从头开始重新安排自己的生活。但那间又高又敞的房间，让他不得不平躺在地板上，让他感到不安，但他也说不清原因，因为他已经在这个房间里住了五年了。他半下意识地转过身，不无羞愧地急忙跑到沙发底下，尽管他的背有些局促，再也抬不起头了，但他感觉很舒服，只是遗憾的是他的身体太宽，无法完全容纳在它下面。

There he remained the entire night, which he spent partly in a state of semi-sleep, out of which his hunger constantly woke him with a start, but partly in a state of worry and murky hopes, which all led to the conclusion that for the time being he would have to keep calm and with patience and the greatest consideration for his family tolerate the troubles which in his present condition he was now forced to cause them.
他在那里待了一整夜，部分时间处于半睡半醒的状态，饥饿不断地把他惊醒，但部分时间则处于忧虑和模糊的希望状态，这一切都导致了这样的结论：目前，他必须保持冷静、耐心，并最大程度地考虑家人的感受，容忍以他目前的状况被迫给家人带来的麻烦。

Already early in the morning (it was still almost night) Gregor had an opportunity to test the power of the decisions he had just made, for his sister, almost fully dressed, opened the door from the hall into his room and looked eagerly inside. She did not find him immediately, but when she noticed him under the couch (God, he had to be somewhere or other; for he could hardly fly away) she got such a shock that, without being able to control herself, she slammed the door shut once again from the outside. However, as if she was sorry for her behaviour, she immediately opened the door again and walked in on her tiptoes, as if she was in the presence of a serious invalid or a total stranger. Gregor had pushed his head forward just to the edge of the couch and was observing her. Would she really notice that he had left the milk standing, not indeed from any lack of hunger, and would she bring in something else to eat more suitable for him? If she did not do it on her own, he would sooner starve to death than call her attention to the fact, although he had a really powerful urge to move beyond the couch, throw himself at his sister’s feet, and beg her for something or other good to eat. But his sister noticed right away with astonishment that the bowl was still full, with only a little milk spilled around it. She picked it up immediately (although not with her bare hands but with a rag), and took it out of the room. Gregor was extremely curious what she would bring as a substitute, and he pictured to himself different ideas about that. But he never could have guessed what his sister out of the goodness of her heart in fact did. She brought him, to test his taste, an entire selection, all spread out on an old newspaper. There were old half-rotten vegetables, bones from the evening meal, covered with a white sauce which had almost solidified, some raisins and almonds, cheese, which Gregor had declared inedible two days earlier, a slice of dry bread, a slice of salted bread smeared with butter. In addition to all this, she put down a bowl (probably designated once and for all as Gregor’s) into which she had poured some water. And out of her delicacy of feeling, since she knew that Gregor would not eat in front of her, she went away very quickly and even turned the key in the lock, so that Gregor could now observe that he could make himself as comfortable as he wished. Gregor’s small limbs buzzed as the time for eating had come. His wounds must, in any case, have already healed completely. He felt no handicap on that score. He was astonished at that and thought about it, how more than a month ago he had cut his finger slightly with a knife and how this wound had hurt enough even the day before yesterday.
一大早（还差不多是晚上），格雷戈尔有机会检验他刚刚做出的决定的威力，因为他的妹妹几乎穿好了衣服，从大厅打开门进入他的房间，急切地向里面张望。她没有立即找到他，但当她注意到他在沙发底下时（上帝啊，他一定在某个地方，因为他几乎飞不走），她大吃一惊，无法控制自己，猛地摔上了沙发。门再次从外面关上。然而，她似乎对自己的行为感到抱歉，立刻又打开了门，踮着脚尖走了进去，就像面对一个重病患者或一个陌生人一样。格雷戈尔把头向前探到沙发边缘，正在观察她。她真的会注意到他把牛奶留在原处，而不是因为缺乏饥饿，她会带一些其他更适合他吃的东西吗？如果她不自己做，他宁愿饿死也不愿叫她注意这个事实，尽管他有一种非常强烈的冲动想要走出沙发，扑倒在妹妹的脚下，向她乞求什么或什么。其他很好吃。但他的妹妹立刻惊讶地发现，碗里还是满的，只洒了一点牛奶。她立即​​把它捡起来（虽然不是徒手，而是用抹布），然后把它带出了房间。格雷戈尔非常好奇她会带来什么作为替代品，他心里想象出了不同的想法。但他永远猜不到他心地善良的妹妹到底做了什么。为了测试他的品味，她给他带来了整个选择，全部铺在一张旧报纸上。 有半腐烂的老蔬菜、晚餐时留下的骨头，上面覆盖着几乎凝固的白酱、一些葡萄干和杏仁、奶酪（格雷戈尔两天前宣布不能食用）、一片干面包、一片咸味面包。面包涂上黄油。除此之外，她还放下了一个碗（可能一劳永逸地指定为格里高尔的），在里面倒了一些水。出于她的细腻感情，既然她知道格雷戈尔不会在她面前吃饭，她很快就走开了，甚至转动了锁里的钥匙，这样格雷戈尔现在就可以观察到他可以让自己像他一样舒服。希望。吃饭时间到了，格雷戈尔的小四肢嗡嗡作响。无论如何，他的伤势应该已经完全愈合了。他觉得在这方面没有任何障碍。他心中一惊，转念一想，一个多月前，自己的手指就被小刀划破了，而这伤口，前天就已经够疼了。

‘Am I now going to be less sensitive,’ he thought, already sucking greedily on the cheese, which had strongly attracted him right away, more than all the other foods. Quickly and with his eyes watering with satisfaction, he ate one after the other the cheese, the vegetables, and the sauce; the fresh food, by contrast, didn’t taste good to him. He couldn’t bear the smell and even carried the things he wanted to eat a little distance away. By the time his sister slowly turned the key as a sign that he should withdraw, he was long finished and now lay lazily in the same spot. The noise immediately startled him, in spite of the fact that he was already almost asleep, and he scurried back again under the couch. But it cost him great self-control to remain under the couch, even for the short time his sister was in the room, because his body had filled out somewhat on account of the rich meal and in the narrow space there he could scarcely breathe. In the midst of minor attacks of asphyxiation, he looked at her with somewhat protruding eyes, as his unsuspecting sister swept up with a broom, not just the remnants, but even the foods which Gregor had not touched at all, as if these were also now useless, and as she dumped everything quickly into a bucket, which she closed with a wooden lid, and then carried all of it out of the room. She had hardly turned around before Gregor had already dragged himself out from the couch, stretched out, and let his body expand.
“我现在是不是变得不那么敏感了？”他一边想，一边贪婪地吮吸着奶酪，奶酪立刻就对他产生了强烈的吸引力，胜过所有其他食物。他很快地满足地流下了眼泪，依次吃掉了奶酪、蔬菜和酱汁。相比之下，新鲜的食物对他来说并不好吃。他受不了这个味道，甚至把想吃的东西都搬到了远处。当他的姐姐慢慢地转动钥匙，示意他退出时，他已经完成了，现在懒洋洋地躺在同一个地方。尽管他已经快要睡着了，但这声音立刻吓了他一跳，他又赶紧跑回沙发底下。但是，即使妹妹在房间里待的时间很短，他还是要留在沙发下，因为一顿丰盛的饭菜让他的身体有些肥胖，在狭小的空间里他几乎无法呼吸。在轻微的窒息发作中，他用有点突出的眼睛看着她，毫无戒心的妹妹用扫帚扫了起来，不仅是残渣，甚至还有格里高尔根本没有碰过的食物，仿佛这些也是现在没用了，她把所有东西都迅速倒进一个桶里，用木盖盖上桶，然后把所有东西都带出了房间。她刚转身，格雷戈尔就已经从沙发上爬起来，伸了个懒腰，让自己的身体膨胀起来。

In this way Gregor got his food every day, once in the morning, when his parents and the servant girl were still asleep, and a second time after the common noon meal, for his parents were, as before, asleep then for a little while, and the servant girl was sent off by his sister on some errand or other. Certainly they would not have wanted Gregor to starve to death, but perhaps they could not have endured finding out what he ate other than by hearsay. Perhaps his sister wanted to spare them what was possibly only a small grief, for they were really suffering quite enough already.
就这样，格里高尔每天都得到食物，一次是在早上，当他的父母和女仆还在睡觉时，第二次是在普通的午餐之后，因为他的父母和以前一样睡了一会儿。 ，丫鬟被他姐姐打发去办事了。当然，他们不会希望格雷戈尔饿死，但也许他们无法忍受除了道听途说之外知道他吃了什么。也许他的姐姐想让他们免去一点小小的悲伤，因为他们真的已经受够了痛苦了。

What sorts of excuses people had used on that first morning to get the doctor and the locksmith out of the house Gregor was completely unable to ascertain. Since he was not comprehensible, no one, not even his sister, thought that he might be able to understand others, and thus, when his sister was in her room, he had to be content with listening now and then to her sighs and invocations to the saints. Only later, when she had grown somewhat accustomed to everything (naturally there could never be any talk of her growing completely accustomed to it) Gregor sometimes caught a comment which was intended to be friendly or could be interpreted as such. ‘Well, today it tasted good to him,’ she said, if Gregor had really cleaned up what he had to eat; whereas, in the reverse situation, which gradually repeated itself more and more frequently, she used to say sadly, ‘Now everything has stopped again.’
第一天早上，人们用什么借口把医生和锁匠赶出家门，格雷戈尔完全无法确定。由于他无法理解，所以没有人，甚至他的妹妹，都不认为他能够理解别人，所以，当他的妹妹在她的房间里时，他只得满足于时不时地听她的叹息和祈祷。至圣人。只是后来，当她对一切都有点习惯了（当然，永远不可能说她已经完全习惯了）格雷戈尔有时会听到一些出于友好或可以被解释为友好的评论。 “好吧，今天对他来说味道很好，”她说，如果格雷戈尔真的清理了他必须吃的东西的话；然而，在相反的情况下，这种情况逐渐越来越频繁地发生，她常常悲伤地说：“现在一切又都停止了。”

But while Gregor could get no new information directly, he did hear a good deal from the room next door, and as soon as he heard voices, he scurried right away to the relevant door and pressed his entire body against it. In the early days especially, there was no conversation which was not concerned with him in some way or other, even if only in secret. For two days at all meal times discussions on that subject could be heard on how people should now behave; but they also talked about the same subject in the times between meals, for there were always at least two family members at home, since no one really wanted to remain in the house alone and people could not under any circumstances leave the apartment completely empty. In addition, on the very first day the servant girl (it was not completely clear what and how much she knew about what had happened) on her knees had begged his mother to let her go immediately, and when she said good bye about fifteen minutes later, she thanked them for the dismissal with tears in her eyes, as if she was receiving the greatest favour which people had shown her there, and, without anyone demanding it from her, she swore a fearful oath not to betray anyone, not even the slightest bit.
不过虽然格雷戈尔无法直接得到新的信息，但他确实从隔壁房间里听到了很多声音，一听到声音，他立刻就跑到了相关的门前，将整个身体贴在了门上。尤其是在早期，没有任何谈话不以某种方式与他有关，即使只是秘密的。两天来，在所有用餐时间都可以听到关于这个主题的讨论，讨论人们现在应该如何行事；但他们在两餐之间也会谈论同样的话题，因为家里总是至少有两个家庭成员，因为没有人真正愿意独自留在房子里，而且人们在任何情况下都不能让公寓完全空着。此外，第一天，女仆（目前尚不清楚她对发生的事情了解多少）跪下恳求他的母亲立即放她走，当她告别时大约十五分钟后来，她含着泪水感谢他们的解雇，仿佛她在那里受到了人们对她最大的恩惠，而且，在没有人向她要求的情况下，她发誓不背叛任何人，甚至不背叛任何人。一点点。

Now his sister had to team up with his mother to do the cooking, although that didn’t create much trouble because people were eating almost nothing. Again and again Gregor listened as one of them vainly invited another one to eat and received no answer other than ‘Thank you. I have enough’ or something like that. And perhaps they had stopped having anything to drink, too. His sister often asked his father whether he wanted to have a beer and gladly offered to fetch it herself, and when his father was silent, she said, in order to remove any reservations he might have, that she could send the caretaker’s wife to get it. But then his father finally said a resounding ‘No,’ and nothing more would be spoken about it.
现在他的妹妹不得不和他的母亲一起做饭，尽管这并没有造成太大麻烦，因为人们几乎什么都不吃。格里高尔一次又一次地听着其中一个人徒劳地邀请另一个人吃饭，除了‘谢谢’之外没有得到任何回应。我已经够了”之类的。也许他们也不再喝任何东西了。他的姐姐经常问他的父亲是否想喝啤酒，并很高兴地提出自己去拿，当他的父亲沉默时，她说，为了消除他可能有的保留，她可以派看门人的妻子去拿啤酒。它。但后来他的父亲最终说了一声“不”，并没有再多说什么。

Already during the first day his father laid out all the financial circumstances and prospects to his mother and to his sister as well. From time to time he stood up from the table and pulled out of the small lockbox salvaged from his business, which had collapsed five years previously, some document or other or some notebook. The sound was audible as he opened up the complicated lock and, after removing what he was looking for, locked it up again. These explanations by his father were, in part, the first enjoyable thing that Gregor had the chance to listen to since his imprisonment. He had thought that nothing at all was left over for his father from that business; at least his father had told him nothing to the contradict that view, and Gregor in any case hadn’t asked him about it. At the time Gregor’s only concern had been to devote everything he had in order to allow his family to forget as quickly as possible the business misfortune which had brought them all into a state of complete hopelessness. And so at that point he’d started to work with a special intensity and from an assistant had become, almost overnight, a traveling salesman, who naturally had entirely different possibilities for earning money and whose successes at work at once were converted into the form of cash commissions, which could be set out on the table at home in front of his astonished and delighted family. Those had been beautiful days, and they had never come back afterwards, at least not with the same splendour, in spite of the fact that Gregor later earned so much money that he was in a position to bear the expenses of the entire family, expenses which he, in fact, did bear. They had become quite accustomed to it, both the family and Gregor as well. They took the money with thanks, and he happily surrendered it, but the special warmth was no longer present. Only the sister had remained still close to Gregor, and it was his secret plan to send her (in contrast to Gregor she loved music very much and knew how to play the violin charmingly) next year to the conservatory, regardless of the great expense which that must necessitate and which would be made up in other ways. Now and then during Gregor’s short stays in the city the conservatory was mentioned in conversations with his sister, but always only as a beautiful dream, whose realization was unimaginable, and their parents never listened to these innocent expectations with pleasure. But Gregor thought about them with scrupulous consideration and intended to explain the matter ceremoniously on Christmas Eve.
在第一天，他的父亲就向他的母亲和妹妹阐述了所有的财务状况和前景。他时不时地从桌子上站起来，从五年前倒闭的公司里抢救出来的小锁箱里拿出一些文件或其他或一些笔记本。当他打开那把复杂的锁，取出他要找的东西后，又把它锁上时，听到了声音。在某种程度上，他父亲的这些解释是格雷戈尔自入狱以来有机会听到的第一件令人愉快的事情。他原以为那桩生意没有给父亲留下任何东西。至少他的父亲没有告诉他任何与这个观点相矛盾的事情，而且格雷戈尔无论如何也没有问过他这件事。当时格雷戈尔唯一关心的就是倾其所有，让家人尽快忘记那场让他们陷入彻底绝望的商业不幸。因此，从那时起，他开始以一种特殊的强度工作，几乎在一夜之间，他从一名助理变成了一名旅行推销员，他自然有完全不同的赚钱可能性，他在工作中的成功立即转化为形式现金佣金，可以放在家里的桌子上，当着他惊讶又高兴的家人的面。那些日子真是美好，后来再也没有回来过，至少没有再像以前那样辉煌过，尽管格雷戈尔后来赚了很多钱，足以承担整个家庭的开支。事实上，他确实承受了。他们一家人和格雷戈尔都已经习惯了。 他们连声感谢地接过钱，他也高兴地交出了钱，但那种特殊的温暖却不再存在了。只有妹妹仍然和格里高尔关系密切，他秘密计划明年送她（与格里高尔相反，她非常热爱音乐，并且懂得如何迷人地拉小提琴）去音乐学院，不管花多少钱。这必然是必要的，并且可以通过其他方式弥补。格雷戈尔在城里短暂停留期间，在与妹妹的谈话中时不时地提到温室，但总是只作为一个美丽的梦想，其实现是难以想象的，而他们的父母从来没有愉快地倾听这些天真的期望。但格雷戈尔仔细考虑了一下，打算在圣诞夜隆重地解释一下这件事。

In his present situation, such futile ideas went through his head, while he pushed himself right up against the door and listened. Sometimes in his general exhaustion he couldn’t listen any more and let his head bang listlessly against the door, but he immediately pulled himself together, for even the small sound which he made by this motion was heard near by and silenced everyone. ‘ There he goes on again,’ said his father after a while, clearly turning towards the door, and only then would the interrupted conversation gradually be resumed again.
以他目前的处境，他的脑子里闪过这样一些徒劳的想法，他把自己靠在门上听着。有时候，他精疲力尽，听不进去，头无精打采地撞在门上，但他立即振作起来，因为即使他这个动作发出的微小声音，附近也能听到，让所有人都安静下来。 “他又继续说下去了。”过了一会儿，父亲说着，明显地转向了门口，直到那时，被打断的谈话才逐渐恢复。

Gregor found out clearly enough (for his father tended to repeat himself often in his explanations, partly because he had not personally concerned himself with these matters for a long time now, and partly also because his mother did not understand everything right away the first time) that, in spite all bad luck, a fortune, although a very small one, was available from the old times, which the interest (which had not been touched) had in the intervening time gradually allowed to increase a little. Furthermore, in addition to this, the money which Gregor had brought home every month (he had kept only a few florins for himself) had not been completely spent and had grown into a small capital amount. Gregor, behind his door, nodded eagerly, rejoicing over this unanticipated foresight and frugality. True, with this excess money, he could have paid off more of his father’s debt to his employer and the day on which he could be rid of this position would have been a lot closer, but now things were doubtless better the way his father had arranged them.
格雷戈尔发现得很清楚（因为他的父亲在解释中经常重复自己的话，部分原因是他已经很长时间没有亲自关心这些问题了，部分原因是他的母亲第一次没有立即理解所有内容） ）尽管运气不好，但从过去就可以得到一笔财富，尽管数额很小，而且利息（尚未触及）在干预期间逐渐允许增加一点。而且，除此之外，格里高尔每个月带回家的钱（他只给自己留了几弗罗林）还没有花完，已经变成了一笔不小的资金。格雷戈尔在门后急切地点点头，为这种意想不到的远见和节俭感到高兴。确实，有了这些多余的钱，他本可以还清更多父亲欠雇主的债务，而他摆脱这个职位的日子也会更近，但现在情况无疑比他父亲的情况要好得多。安排了他们。

At the moment, however, this money was nowhere near sufficient to permit the family to live on the interest payments. Perhaps it would be enough to maintain the family for one or at most two years, that’s all. Thus it came only to an amount which one should not really take out and which must be set aside for an emergency. But the money to live on must be earned. Now, his father was a healthy man, although he was old, who had not worked at all for five years now and thus could not be counted on for very much. He had in these five years, the first holidays of his trouble-filled but unsuccessful life, put on a good deal of fat and thus had become really heavy. And should his old mother now maybe work for money, a woman who suffered from asthma, for whom wandering through the apartment even now was a great strain and who spent every second day on the sofa by the open window labouring for breath? Should his sister earn money, a girl who was still a seventeen-year-old child, whose earlier life style had been so very delightful that it had consisted of dressing herself nicely, sleeping in late, helping around the house, taking part in a few modest enjoyments and, above all, playing the violin? When it came to talking about this need to earn money, at first Gregor went away from the door and threw himself on the cool leather sofa beside the door, for he was quite hot from shame and sorrow.
然而，目前这笔钱还远远不够一家人靠利息维持生活。也许足以维持这个家庭一年，最多两年，仅此而已。因此，这笔钱只是一个不应该真正拿出来的数额，必须留出以备不时之需。但生活的钱必须自己挣。现在，他的父亲虽然年事已高，身体却很健康，已经五年没有工作了，不能指望太多。这五年，是他充满烦恼却并不成功的人生的第一个假期，他的脂肪大量增加，因此变得非常沉重。他的老母亲现在也许应该为钱工作吗？她患有哮喘，即使现在在公寓里徘徊对她来说也是一种巨大的压力，而且每隔一天就坐在开着的窗户旁的沙发上呼吸困难？如果他的妹妹挣钱的话，一个还是十七岁孩子的女孩，早年的生活方式是那么令人愉快，包括穿得漂亮、睡得很晚、帮忙做家务、参加活动。很少有适度的享受，尤其是拉小提琴？当谈到赚钱的需要时，格里高尔首先从门边走开，倒在门边凉爽的皮沙发上，因为他感到羞愧和悲伤，浑身发热。

Often he lay there all night long. He didn’t sleep a moment and just scratched on the leather for hours at a time. He undertook the very difficult task of shoving a chair over to the window. Then he crept up on the window sill and, braced in the chair, leaned against the window to look out, obviously with some memory or other of the satisfaction which that used to bring him in earlier times. Actually from day to day he perceived things with less and less clarity, even those a short distance away: the hospital across the street, the all too frequent sight of which he had previously cursed, was not visible at all any more, and if he had not been precisely aware that he lived in the quiet but completely urban Charlotte Street, he could have believed that from his window he was peering out at a featureless wasteland, in which the gray heaven and the gray earth had merged and were indistinguishable. His attentive sister must have observed a couple of times that the chair stood by the window; then, after cleaning up the room, each time she pushed the chair back right against the window and from now on she even left the inner casement open.
他常常整夜躺在那里。他一刻也没有睡觉，只是在皮革上抓挠，一抓就是好几个小时。他承担了把椅子推到窗边的艰巨​​任务。然后他爬到窗台上，靠在椅子上，靠在窗户上向外看，显然带着某种记忆或其他的满足感，以前这给他带来过。事实上，日复一日，他对事物的感知越来越不清晰，即使是那些不远的地方：街对面的医院，他以前咒骂过的频繁出现的景象，现在已经完全看不见了，如果他如果他没有准确地意识到自己生活在安静而又完全城市化的夏洛特街，他可能会相信，从窗户里，他看到的是一片毫无特色的荒原，灰色的天空和灰色的大地融为一体，难以区分。他细心的姐姐肯定曾多次注意到那把椅子位于窗边；但他并没有注意到。然后，每次打扫完房间后，她都会把椅子推回靠窗的位置，从现在起，她甚至把里面的窗子打开。

If Gregor had only been able to speak to his sister and thank her for everything that she had to do for him, he would have tolerated her service more easily. As it was he suffered under it. The sister admittedly sought to cover up the awkwardness of everything as much as possible, and, as time went by, she naturally got more successful at it. But with the passing of time Gregor also came to understand everything more precisely. Even her entrance was terrible for him. As soon as she entered, she ran straight to the window, without taking the time to shut the door (in spite of the fact that she was otherwise very considerate in sparing anyone the sight of Gregor’s room), and yanked the window open with eager hands, as if she was almost suffocating, and remained for a while by the window breathing deeply, even when it was still so cold. With this running and noise she frightened Gregor twice every day. The entire time he trembled under the couch, and yet he knew very well that she would certainly have spared him gladly if it had only been possible to remain with the window closed in a room where Gregor lived.
如果格雷戈尔能够和他的妹妹说话并感谢她为他所做的一切，他就会更容易地容忍她的服务。事实上，他在这之下受苦了。诚然，姐姐想尽可能地掩盖一切的尴尬，随着时间的推移，她自然就更成功了。但随着时间的流逝，格雷戈尔也对一切有了更准确的理解。甚至她的出现对他来说都是可怕的。她一进门，就径直跑到窗前，没有花时间关门（尽管她在其他方面很考虑到不让任何人看到格雷戈尔的房间），急切地把窗户拉开。她双手捂着，仿佛快要窒息了，在窗边停留了一会儿，深呼吸着，尽管天还是那么冷。她的奔跑和喧闹每天都会吓到格里高尔两次。整个过程中，他在沙发下颤抖着，但他很清楚，如果她能留在格雷戈尔住的房间里，关着窗户，她肯定会很高兴地饶了他。

On one occasion (about one month had already gone by since Gregor’s transformation, and there was now no particular reason any more for his sister to be startled at Gregor’s appearance) she came a little earlier than usual and came upon Gregor as he was still looking out the window, immobile and well positioned to frighten someone. It would not have come as a surprise to Gregor if she had not come in, since his position was preventing her from opening the window immediately. But she not only did not step inside; she even retreated and shut the door. A stranger really could have concluded from this that Gregor had been lying in wait for her and wanted to bite her. Of course, Gregor immediately concealed himself under the couch, but he had to wait until the noon meal before his sister returned, and she seemed much less calm than usual. From this he realized that his appearance was still constantly intolerable to her and must remain intolerable in future, and that she really had to exert a lot of self-control not to run away from a glimpse of only the small part of his body which stuck out from under the couch. In order to spare her even this sight, one day he dragged the sheet on his back onto the couch (this task took him four hours) and arranged it in such a way that he was now completely concealed and his sister, even if she bent down, could not see him. If this sheet was not necessary as far as she was concerned, then she could remove it, for it was clear enough that Gregor could not derive any pleasure from isolating himself away so completely. But she left the sheet just as it was, and Gregor believed he even caught a look of gratitude when on one occasion he carefully lifted up the sheet a little with his head to check as his sister took stock of the new arrangement.
有一次（自从格里高尔变身以来已经过去了大约一个月，现在他的妹妹已经没有什么特别的理由对格里高尔的出现感到惊讶了）她比平常来得早一点，遇到了还在看的格里高尔。窗外，一动不动，位置很好，可以吓唬别人。如果她没有进来，格里高尔也不会感到惊讶，因为他的位置使她无法立即打开窗户。但她非但没有踏进去，反而没有进去。她甚至退后并关上了门。一个陌生人真的可以由此断定格雷戈尔一直在埋伏着她，想要咬她。当然，格里高尔立刻就躲到了沙发底下，但要等到中午吃饭的时候，妹妹才回来，而她却显得比平时平静多了。由此他意识到，他的样子一直让她无法忍受，以后也一定会无法忍受，她真的要非常努力地克制，不能逃避看到他粘在身上的那一小部分。从沙发底下出来。为了不让她看到这一幕，有一天，他把背上的床单拖到沙发上（这项工作花了他四个小时），并以这样的方式布置，现在他和他的妹妹都被完全隐藏起来，即使她弯着腰下来，就看不到他了。如果这张床单对她来说不是必需的，那么她可以把它去掉，因为很明显，格里高尔无法从如此彻底的孤立中获得任何乐趣。 但她把床单原封不动地留在了原处，格里高尔相信，有一次，当他姐姐评估新的安排时，他小心翼翼地用头稍微抬起床单进行检查，他甚至看到了感激的表情。

In the first two weeks his parents could not bring themselves to visit him, and he often heard how they fully acknowledged his sister’s present work; whereas, earlier they had often got annoyed at his sister because she had seemed to them a somewhat useless young woman. However, now both his father and his mother often waited in front of Gregor’s door while his sister cleaned up inside, and as soon as she came out she had to explain in detail how things looked in the room, what Gregor had eaten, how he had behaved this time, and whether perhaps a slight improvement was perceptible. In any event, his mother comparatively soon wanted to visit Gregor, but his father and his sister restrained her, at first with reasons which Gregor listened to very attentively and which he completely endorsed. Later, however, they had to hold her back forcefully, and when she then cried ‘Let me go to Gregor. He’s my unlucky son! Don’t you understand that I have to go to him?’ Gregor then thought that perhaps it would be a good thing if his mother came in, not every day, of course, but maybe once a week. She understood everything much better than his sister, who in spite of all her courage was still a child and, in the last analysis, had perhaps undertaken such a difficult task only out of childish recklessness.
最初的两周，他的父母都不敢去看他，他经常听到他们对妹妹目前的工作表示充分的认可。然而，早些时候他们经常对他的妹妹感到恼火，因为在他们看来她是一个有点无用的年轻女人。然而，现在他的父亲和母亲经常在格雷戈尔的门前等待，而他的妹妹则在里面打扫卫生，一出来就必须详细解释房间里的情况，格雷戈尔吃了什么，他是如何做的。这次的表现是否有轻微的改善是可以察觉的。无论如何，他的母亲很快就想去看望格里高尔，但他的父亲和妹妹阻止了她，一开始的理由是格里高尔非常专心地听着，而且他完全赞同。然而，后来他们不得不强行拉住她，当她哭喊着“让我去找格雷戈尔”时。他是我的倒霉儿子！你难道不明白我必须去找他吗？”格雷戈尔接着想，如果他的母亲进来也许是件好事，当然不是每天，但也许每周一次。她比他的姐姐更了解一切，尽管她有勇气，但她仍然是一个孩子，归根结底，也许只是出于孩子气的鲁莽而承担了如此艰巨的任务。

Gregor’s wish to see his mother was soon realized. While during the day Gregor, out of consideration for his parents, did not want to show himself by the window, he couldn’t crawl around very much on the few square metres of the floor. He found it difficult to bear lying quietly during the night, and soon eating no longer gave him the slightest pleasure. So for diversion he acquired the habit of crawling back and forth across the walls and ceiling. He was especially fond of hanging from the ceiling. The experience was quite different from lying on the floor. It was easier to breathe, a slight vibration went through his body, and in the midst of the almost happy amusement which Gregor found up there, it could happen that, to his own surprise, he let go and hit the floor. However, now he naturally controlled his body quite differently, and he did not injure himself in such a great fall. His sister noticed immediately the new amusement which Gregor had found for himself (for as he crept around he left behind here and there traces of his sticky stuff), and so she got the idea of making Gregor’s creeping around as easy as possible and thus of removing the furniture which got in the way, especially the chest of drawers and the writing desk.
格雷戈尔想见母亲的愿望很快就实现了。虽然白天格里高尔出于对父母的考虑，不愿意出现在窗边，但他又不能在这几平方米的地板上爬行。他很难忍受晚上安静地躺着，很快吃饭也不再给他带来丝毫的乐趣。因此，为了消遣，他养成了在墙壁和天花板上来回爬行的习惯。他特别喜欢挂在天花板上。这种体验与躺在地板上完全不同。呼吸变得更容易了，轻微的震动传遍了他的身体，在格里高尔发现的近乎快乐的娱乐之中，可能会发生这样的情况，令他自己惊讶的是，他放开了手，摔在了地板上。不过，现在他自然对身体的控制力大为不同，这么大的摔落，他并没有受伤。他的妹妹立即注意到格雷戈尔为自己找到了新的乐趣（因为当他爬行时，他到处都留下了他粘稠的东西的痕迹），所以她想到了让格雷戈尔爬行尽可能容易的想法，从而移走妨碍的家具，特别是抽屉柜和写字台。

But she was in no position to do this by herself. She did not dare to ask her father to help, and the servant girl would certainly not have assisted her, for although this girl, about sixteen years old, had courageously remained since the dismissal of the previous cook, she had begged for the privilege of being allowed to stay permanently confined to the kitchen and of having to open the door only in answer to a special summons. Thus, his sister had no other choice but to involve his mother while his father was absent. His mother approached Gregor’s room with cries of excited joy, but she fell silent at the door. Of course, his sister first checked whether everything in the room was in order. Only then did she let his mother walk in. In great haste Gregor had drawn the sheet down even further and wrinkled it more. The whole thing really looked just like a coverlet thrown carelessly over the couch. On this occasion, Gregor held back from spying out from under the sheet. Thus, he refrained from looking at his mother this time and was just happy that she had come. ‘Come on; he is not visible,’ said his sister, and evidently led his mother by the hand. Now Gregor listened as these two weak women shifted the still heavy old chest of drawers from its position, and as his sister constantly took on herself the greatest part of the work, without listening to the warnings of his mother who was afraid that she would strain herself. The work lasted a long time. After about a quarter of an hour had already gone by his mother said that it would be better if they left the chest of drawers where it was, because, in the first place, it was too heavy: they would not be finished before his father’s arrival, and with the chest of drawers in the middle of the room it would block all Gregor’s pathways, but, in the second place, it might not be certain that Gregor would be pleased with the removal of the furniture. To her the reverse seemed to be true; the sight of the empty walls pierced her right to the heart, and why should Gregor not feel the same, since he had been accustomed to the room furnishings for a long time and in an empty room would thus feel himself abandoned.
但她一个人没有能力做到这一点。她不敢叫父亲帮忙，那丫鬟也肯定不会帮忙，因为这个姑娘虽然十六岁左右，自从前任厨子被解雇后，就勇敢地留下来了，但她却乞求了父亲的特权。被允许永久限制在厨房内，并且只有在响应特殊召唤时才必须打开门。因此，他的妹妹别无选择，只能趁父亲不在的时候，让母亲介入。他的母亲带着兴奋的喜悦的叫声来到格雷戈尔的房间，但她在门口却陷入了沉默。当然，他的妹妹首先检查了房间里的一切是否都正常。直到这时，她才让他的母亲走进来。 格里高尔急忙把床单拉得更深，皱得更厉害。整件事看起来真的就像一张被子不小心扔在沙发上的被子。这一次，格雷戈尔忍住了，没有从床单下面窥探。所以，他这次没有看母亲，只是很高兴她来了。 '快点; “他看不见。”他姐姐说道，显然牵着他母亲的手。现在，格里高尔听着这两个虚弱的女人把仍然沉重的旧抽屉柜从原来的位置移开，而他的妹妹不断地承担起大部分工作，没有听从他母亲的警告，因为她担心她会紧张。她自己。这项工作持续了很长时间。 大约一刻钟过去后，他母亲说，最好把抽屉柜留在原处，因为首先，它太重了：在他父亲之前，它们不会完成。到达时，抽屉柜位于房间中央，它会挡住格雷戈尔的所有通道，但是，其次，可能不确定格雷戈尔是否会对搬走家具感到满意。对她来说，情况似乎恰恰相反。空荡荡的墙壁让她心如刀割，格雷戈尔为什么不这么想呢，因为他已经习惯了房间里的陈设，在空荡荡的房间里会感到自己被抛弃了。

‘And is it not the case,’ his mother concluded very quietly, almost whispering as if she wished to prevent Gregor, whose exact location she really didn’t know, from hearing even the sound of her voice (for she was convinced that he did not understand her words), ‘and isn’t it a fact that by removing the furniture we’re showing that we’re giving up all hope of an improvement and are leaving him to his own resources without any consideration? I think it would be best if we tried to keep the room exactly in the condition in which it was before, so that, when Gregor returns to us, he finds everything unchanged and can forget the intervening time all the more easily.’
“难道不是这样吗？”他的母亲非常平静地总结道，几乎是低语，仿佛她希望阻止格里高尔听到她的声音，而她真的不知道格里高尔的确切位置（因为她确信他是不明白她的话），“通过拆除家具，我们不是在表明我们正在放弃所有改进的希望，并且不加考虑地让他依靠自己的资源，这难道不是事实吗？”我认为最好的办法是我们尽量让房间保持原来的状态，这样，当格雷戈尔回到我们身边时，他会发现一切都没有改变，并且更容易忘记中间的时间。

As he heard his mother’s words Gregor realized that the lack of all immediate human contact, together with the monotonous life surrounded by the family over the course of these two months must have confused his understanding, because otherwise he couldn’t explain to himself that he in all seriousness could’ve been so keen to have his room emptied. Was he really eager to let the warm room, comfortably furnished with pieces he had inherited, be turned into a cavern in which he would, of course, then be able to crawl about in all directions without disturbance, but at the same time with a quick and complete forgetting of his human past as well? Was he then at this point already on the verge of forgetting and was it only the voice of his mother, which he had not heard for along time, that had aroused him? Nothing was to be removed; everything must remain. In his condition he couldn’t function without the beneficial influences of his furniture. And if the furniture prevented him from carrying out his senseless crawling about all over the place, then there was no harm in that, but rather a great benefit.
当他听到母亲的话时，格雷戈尔意识到，这两个月来，缺乏所有直接的人际接触，再加上家庭周围单调的生活，一定让他的理解变得混乱，因为否则他无法向自己解释，他认真地说，他可能非常渴望有人清空他的房间。他是否真的渴望让温暖的房间，舒适地布置着他继承的物品，变成一个洞穴，在里面，他当然可以在不受干扰的情况下向各个方向爬行，但同时又可以也快速而彻底地忘记了他作为人类的过去？难道此时的他已经快要忘记了，只是许久未闻的母亲的声音让他惊醒了吗？没有什么是可以删除的；一切都必须保留。在他的情况下，如果没有家具的有益影响，他就无法正常工作。如果家具阻止了他毫无意义地到处爬行，那也没有坏处，反而有很大的好处。

But his sister unfortunately thought otherwise. She had grown accustomed, certainly not without justification, so far as the discussion of matters concerning Gregor was concerned, to act as an special expert with respect to their parents, and so now the mother’s advice was for his sister sufficient reason to insist on the removal, not only of the chest of drawers and the writing desk, which were the only items she had thought about at first, but also of all the furniture, with the exception of the indispensable couch. Of course, it was not only childish defiance and her recent very unexpected and hard won self-confidence which led her to this demand. She had also actually observed that Gregor needed a great deal of room to creep about; the furniture, on the other hand, as far as one could see, was not of the slightest use.
但不幸的是，他的妹妹却不这么认为。她已经习惯了，当然不是没有道理的，就讨论有关格里高尔的问题而言，她已经习惯于充当他们父母的特别专家，因此现在母亲的建议对他的妹妹来说有足够的理由坚持不仅是五斗柜和写字台（这是她一开始想到的唯一物品），还有所有的家具，除了必不可少的沙发。当然，导致她提出这一要求的不仅仅是孩子气的反抗，还有她最近出乎意料、来之不易的自信。她实际上还观察到格雷戈尔需要很大的空间来爬行。另一方面，据人们所知，家具没有丝毫用处。

But perhaps the enthusiastic sensibility of young women of her age also played a role. This feeling sought release at every opportunity, and with it Grete now felt tempted to want to make Gregor’s situation even more terrifying, so that then she would be able to do even more for him than now. For surely no one except Grete would ever trust themselves to enter a room in which Gregor ruled the empty walls all by himself. And so she did not let herself be dissuaded from her decision by her mother, who in this room seemed uncertain of herself in her sheer agitation and soon kept quiet, helping his sister with all her energy to get the chest of drawers out of the room. Now, Gregor could still do without the chest of drawers if need be, but the writing desk really had to stay. And scarcely had the women left the room with the chest of drawers, groaning as they pushed it, when Gregor stuck his head out from under the sofa to take a look how he could intervene cautiously and with as much consideration as possible. But unfortunately it was his mother who came back into the room first, while Grete had her arms wrapped around the chest of drawers in the next room and was rocking it back and forth by herself, without moving it from its position. His mother was not used to the sight of Gregor; he could have made her ill, and so, frightened, Gregor scurried backwards right to the other end of the sofa, but he could no longer prevent the sheet from moving forward a little. That was enough to catch his mother’s attention. She came to a halt, stood still for a moment, and then went back to Grete.
但也许她这个年龄的年轻女性的热情感性也发挥了作用。这种感觉一有机会就寻求释放，格蕾特现在忍不住想让格雷戈尔的处境变得更加可怕，这样她就能为他做比现在更多的事情。因为除了格蕾特之外，肯定没有人会相信自己会进入格雷戈尔独自统治空墙的房间。因此，她没有让自己的母亲劝阻自己的决定，母亲在这个房间里，似乎因为极度的激动而对自己感到不确定，很快就保持沉默，用尽全力帮助他的妹妹把五斗柜搬出房间。 。现在，如果需要的话，格雷戈尔仍然可以不用抽屉柜，但写字台确实必须留下来。女人们刚带着五斗柜离开房间，一边推着五斗柜，一边呻吟着，格雷戈尔从沙发下探出头来，想看看如何谨慎地、尽可能多地考虑干预。但不幸的是，先回到房间的却是他的母亲，而格蕾特则搂着隔壁房间的五斗柜，自己来回摇晃，没有挪动它的位置。他的母亲不习惯看到格雷戈尔。他可能会让她生病，所以格雷戈尔害怕了，赶紧向后跑到沙发的另一端，但他再也无法阻止床单向前移动一点。这足以引起他母亲的注意。她停了下来，站了一会儿，然后又回到格蕾特身边。

Although Gregor kept repeating to himself over and over that really nothing unusual was going on, that only a few pieces of furniture were being rearranged, he soon had to admit to himself that the movements of the women to and fro, their quiet conversations, the scratching of the furniture on the floor affected him like a great swollen commotion on all sides, and, so firmly was he pulling in his head and legs and pressing his body into the floor, he had to tell himself unequivocally that he wouldn’t be able to endure all this much longer. They were cleaning out his room, taking away from him everything he cherished; they had already dragged out the chest of drawers in which the fret saw and other tools were kept, and they were now loosening the writing desk which was fixed tight to the floor, the desk on which he, as a business student, a school student, indeed even as an elementary school student, had written out his assignments. At that moment he really didn’t have any more time to check the good intentions of the two women, whose existence he had in any case almost forgotten, because in their exhaustion they were working really silently, and the heavy stumbling of their feet was the only sound to be heard.
尽管格里高尔一遍又一遍地对自己重复说，确实没有发生任何异常情况，只是重新布置了几件家具，但他很快就不得不承认，女人们来回的动作，她们安静的谈话，地板上的家具刮擦对他的影响就像是四面八方都发生了巨大的肿胀骚动，而且，他如此用力地拉着他的头和腿，将他的身体压在地板上，他必须明确地告诉自己，他不会能够忍受这一切更长时间。他们正在清理他的房间，夺走他所珍视的一切；他们已经拖出了装有钢丝锯和其他工具的五斗柜，现在他们正在松开紧紧固定在地板上的写字台，这张桌子是他作为一名商科学生、一名学生的桌子。确实，当他还是个小学生的时候，他的作业就已经写好了。此刻他实在没有时间再去检查这两个女人的善意了，反正他已经几乎忘记了她们的存在，因为她们在疲惫中默默地工作着，脚下沉重的绊倒声让他觉得很累。唯一能听到的声音。

And so he scuttled out (the women were just propping themselves up on the writing desk in the next room in order to take a breather) changing the direction of his path four times. He really didn’t know what he should rescue first. Then he saw hanging conspicuously on the wall, which was otherwise already empty, the picture of the woman dressed in nothing but fur. He quickly scurried up over it and pressed himself against the glass that held it in place and which made his hot abdomen feel good. At least this picture, which Gregor at the moment completely concealed, surely no one would now take away. He twisted his head towards the door of the living room to observe the women as they came back in.
于是他就急忙跑了出去（女人们只是靠在隔壁房间的写字台上喘口气），他的路线方向改变了四次。他实在不知道自己该先救什么。然后他看到墙上显眼地挂着一张女人的照片，墙上本来就已经空了，只穿着皮毛。他迅速跑过去，将自己压在固定玻璃的玻璃上，这让他滚烫的腹部感觉很舒服。至少这张照片，格雷戈尔此刻完全隐藏起来，现在肯定没有人会带走。他把头扭向客厅门口，观察着她们回来的情况。

They had not allowed themselves very much rest and were coming back right away. Grete had placed her arm around her mother and held her tightly. ‘So what shall we take now?’ said Grete and looked around her. Then her glance crossed with Gregor’s from the wall. She kept her composure only because her mother was there. She bent her face towards her mother in order to prevent her from looking around, and said, although in a trembling voice and too quickly, ‘Come, wouldn’t it be better to go back to the living room for just another moment?’ Grete’s purpose was clear to Gregor: she wanted to bring his mother to a safe place and then chase him down from the wall. Well, let her just attempt that! He squatted on his picture and did not hand it over. He would sooner spring into Grete’s face.
他们没有让自己休息太多，马上就回来了。格蕾特用手臂搂住母亲，紧紧地抱住她。 “那么我们现在该拿什么呢？”格蕾特环顾四周说道。然后她的目光与墙上的格雷戈尔的目光交汇。她之所以能保持镇定，只是因为有母亲在。她把脸弯向母亲，不让她四处张望，然后用颤抖的声音说道，“来吧，再回客厅一会儿不是更好吗？”格蕾特的目的对格雷戈尔来说很清楚：她想把他的母亲带到一个安全的地方，然后把他从墙上追下来。好吧，就让她尝试一下吧！他蹲在自己的照片上，没有递出。他宁愿跳到格蕾特的脸上。

But Grete’s words had immediately made the mother very uneasy. She walked to the side, caught sight of the enormous brown splotch on the flowered wallpaper, and, before she became truly aware that what she was looking at was Gregor, screamed out in a high pitched raw voice ‘Oh God, oh God’ and fell with outstretched arms, as if she was surrendering everything, down onto the couch and lay there motionless. ‘Gregor, you …,’ cried out his sister with a raised fist and an urgent glare. Since his transformation those were the first words which she had directed right at him. She ran into the room next door to bring some spirits or other with which she could revive her mother from her fainting spell. Gregor wanted to help as well (there was time enough to save the picture), but he was stuck fast on the glass and had to tear himself loose forcefully. Then he also scurried into the next room, as if he could give his sister some advice, as in earlier times, but then he had to stand there idly behind her, while she rummaged about among various small bottles. Still, she was frightened when she turned around. A bottle fell onto the floor and shattered. A splinter of glass wounded Gregor in the face, some corrosive medicine or other dripped over him. Now, without lingering any longer, Grete took as many small bottles as she could hold and ran with them into her mother. She slammed the door shut with her foot. Gregor was now shut off from his mother, who was perhaps near death, thanks to him. He could not open the door, and he did not want to chase away his sister who had to remain with her mother. At this point he had nothing to do but wait, and overwhelmed with self-reproach and worry, he began to creep and crawl over everything: walls, furniture, and ceiling,. Finally, in his despair, as the entire room started to spin around him, he fell onto the middle of the large table.
但格蕾特的话立刻让母亲很不安。她走到一边，看到了花朵壁纸上巨大的棕色斑点，在她真正意识到自己看到的是格雷戈尔之前，她用高亢的原始声音尖叫道“哦上帝，哦上帝”，然后她张开双臂，仿佛放弃了一切，倒在沙发上，一动不动地躺着。 “格雷戈尔，你……”他的妹妹举起拳头，眼神急迫地瞪着她，喊道。这是自从他转变之后，她对他说的第一句话。她跑进隔壁房间，拿来一些烈酒或其他东西，可以让她母亲从昏厥中苏醒过来。格雷戈尔也想帮忙（有足够的时间来保存照片），但他被牢牢地粘在玻璃上，不得不用力将自己撕开。然后他也急忙跑进隔壁房间，好像可以像以前一样给妹妹一些建议，但随后他就得站在她身后无所事事，而她则在各种小瓶子里翻找。不过，当她转身的时候，还是被吓到了。一个瓶子掉到地上，摔碎了。一块玻璃碎片打伤了格雷戈尔的脸，一些腐蚀性药物或其他东西滴到了他身上。现在，格蕾特没有再逗留，她拿着尽可能多的小瓶子，跑到了母亲身边。她用脚把门关上。格雷戈尔现在与他的母亲隔绝了，多亏了他，他的母亲可能已经濒临死亡。他打不开门，他也不想赶走必须留在母亲身边的妹妹。此时他除了等待别无他法，自责和担忧压倒了他，他开始在一切事物上爬行：墙壁、家具和天花板。 最后，在他绝望的时候，整个房间开始围绕着他旋转，他跌倒在大桌子的中间。

A short time elapsed. Gregor lay there limply. All around was still. Perhaps that was a good sign. Then there was ring at the door. The servant girl was naturally shut up in her kitchen, and Grete must therefore go to open the door. The father had arrived. ‘What’s happened,’ were his first words. Grete’s appearance had told him everything. Grete replied with a dull voice; evidently she was pressing her face into her father’s chest: ‘Mother fainted, but she’s getting better now. Gregor has broken loose.’ ‘Yes, I have expected that,’ said his father, ‘I always told you that, but you women don’t want to listen.’
很短的时间过去了。格雷戈尔无力地躺在那里。周围一片寂静。也许这是一个好兆头。然后门口就响起了铃声。女仆自然是被关在厨房里了，格蕾特必须去开门。父亲来了。 “发生了什么事，”这是他的第一句话。格蕾特的外表已经告诉了他一切。格蕾特用沉闷的声音回答道。显然她正把脸埋进父亲的胸口：“母亲晕倒了，但现在已经好起来了。” “是的，我已经预料到了，”他的父亲说，“我一直告诉过你，但你们女人不想听。”

It was clear to Gregor that his father had badly misunderstood Grete’s short message and was assuming that Gregor had committed some violent crime or other. Thus, Gregor now had to find his father to calm him down, for he had neither the time nor the opportunity to clarify things for him. And so he rushed away to the door of his room and pushed himself against it, so that his father could see right away as he entered from the hall that Gregor fully intended to return at once to his room, that it was not necessary to drive him back, but that one only needed to open the door and he would disappear immediately.
格雷戈尔很清楚，他的父亲严重误解了格雷特的短信，并认为格雷戈尔犯下了某种暴力犯罪或其他罪行。所以，格雷戈尔现在必须找到父亲来安抚他的情绪，因为他没有时间也没有机会为他澄清事情。于是他冲到自己的房间门口，用力抵住门，这样当他从大厅走进去时，父亲就能立刻看出格雷戈尔完全打算立即返回自己的房间，没有必要开车他回来了，但那人只要打开门，他就会立刻消失。

But his father was not in the mood to observe such niceties. ‘Ah,’ he yelled as soon as he entered, with a tone as if he were all at once angry and pleased. Gregor pulled his head back from the door and raised it in the direction of his father. He had not really pictured his father as he now stood there. Of course, what with his new style of creeping all around, he had in the past while neglected to pay attention to what was going on in the rest of the apartment, as he had done before, and really should have grasped the fact that he would encounter different conditions. Nevertheless, nevertheless, was that still his father? Was that the same man who had lain exhausted and buried in bed in earlier days when Gregor was setting out on a business trip, who had received him on the evenings of his return in a sleeping gown and arm chair, totally incapable of standing up, who had only lifted his arm as a sign of happiness, and who in their rare strolls together a few Sundays a year and on the important holidays made his way slowly forwards between Gregor and his mother (who themselves moved slowly), always a bit more slowly than them, bundled up in his old coat, all the time setting down his walking stick carefully, and who, when he had wanted to say something, almost always stood still and gathered his entourage around him?
但他的父亲没有心情观察这些细节。 “啊。”他一进来就叫了一声，语气里仿佛又生气又高兴。格雷戈尔把头从门口拉了回来，朝他父亲的方向抬起来。当他站在那里时，他并没有真正想象过他的父亲。当然，随着他新的四处爬行的风格，他过去也曾像以前那样忽视了公寓其他地方发生的事情，而他确实应该认识到这样一个事实：会遇到不同的情况。尽管如此，那还是他的父亲吗？是不是就是那个早先格雷戈尔出差时精疲力竭地躺在床上，在他回来的​​晚上穿着睡衣和扶手椅接待他的那个人，他完全无法站起来，他只举起手臂作为幸福的标志，每年有几个星期天和重要的节日，他们难得一起散步，他在格雷戈尔和他的母亲（她自己移动得很慢）之间慢慢前行，总是多一点比他们慢，裹着旧外套，一直小心翼翼地放下手杖，当他想说些什么时，谁几乎总是站着不动，把随从聚集在他周围？

But now he was standing up really straight, dressed in a tight fitting blue uniform with gold buttons, like the ones servants wear in a banking company. Above the high stiff collar of his jacket his firm double chin stuck out prominently, beneath his bushy eyebrows the glance of his black eyes was freshly penetrating and alert, his otherwise disheveled white hair was combed down into a carefully exact shining part. He threw his cap, on which a gold monogram (apparently the symbol of the bank) was affixed, in an arc across the entire room onto the sofa and moved, throwing back the edge of the long coat of his uniform, with his hands in his trouser pockets and a grim face, right up to Gregor.
但现在他站得很直，穿着紧身蓝色制服，上面有金色纽扣，就像银行公司仆人穿的那样。他夹克的硬领上方，坚挺的双下巴突出，浓密的眉毛下，黑眼睛的目光清新而敏锐，原本凌乱的白发精心梳理成闪亮的部分。他把刻有金色花押字（显然是银行的标志）的帽子沿着整个房间呈弧形扔到沙发上，然后将制服长外套的边缘向后一扔，双手放在沙发上。他的裤袋和一张严峻的脸，一直到格雷戈尔。

He really didn’t know what he had in mind, but he raised his foot uncommonly high anyway, and Gregor was astonished at the gigantic size of his sole of his boot. However, he did not linger on that point. For he knew from the first day of his new life that as far as he was concerned his father considered the greatest force the only appropriate response. And so he scurried away from his father, stopped when his father remained standing, and scampered forward again when his father merely stirred. In this way they made their way around the room repeatedly, without anything decisive taking place; indeed because of the slow pace it didn’t look like a chase. Gregor remained on the floor for the time being, especially as he was afraid that his father could take a flight up onto the wall or the ceiling as an act of real malice. At any event Gregor had to tell himself that he couldn’t keep up this running around for a long time, because whenever his father took a single step, he had to go through an enormous number of movements. Already he was starting to suffer from a shortage of breath, just as in his earlier days his lungs had been quite unreliable. As he now staggered around in this way in order to gather all his energies for running, hardly keeping his eyes open, in his listlessness he had no notion at all of any escape other than by running and had almost already forgotten that the walls were available to him, although they were obstructed by carefully carved furniture full of sharp points and spikes—at that moment something or other thrown casually flew down close by and rolled in front of him. It was an apple; immediately a second one flew after it. Gregor stood still in fright. Further flight was useless, for his father had decided to bombard him.
他真的不知道自己在想什么，但他还是把脚抬得异常高，格雷戈尔对他靴底的巨大尺寸感到惊讶。不过，他并没有在这一点上停留。因为从他新生活的第一天起，他就知道，就他而言，他的父亲认为最大的力量是唯一合适的反应。于是他就从父亲身边跑开，在父亲还站着的时候停了下来，在父亲稍微一动的时候又向前跑去。他们就这样在房间里反复走动，没有发生任何决定性的事情。确实，因为节奏缓慢，看起来不像是一场追逐。格雷戈尔暂时留在地板上，特别是因为他担心他的父亲可能会飞上墙壁或天花板作为真正的恶意行为。无论如何，格雷戈尔必须告诉自己，他不能长时间这样跑来跑去，因为每当父亲迈出一步时，他就必须经历大量的动作。他已经开始感到呼吸困难，就像他早年的肺一样不可靠。现在他就这样摇摇晃晃地走来走去，为了集中所有的力气奔跑，几乎睁不开眼睛，无精打采的他除了奔跑之外根本没有任何逃脱的想法，几乎已经忘记了墙壁是可以利用的。对他来说，尽管他们被精心雕刻的布满尖尖和尖刺的家具挡住了——就在那一刻，随意扔出的东西飞到了附近，滚到了他面前。那是一个苹果；紧接着，第二架飞机紧随其后飞来。格雷戈尔惊恐地站着不动。再逃跑也没有用，因为他的父亲决定轰炸他。

From the fruit bowl on the sideboard his father had filled his pockets, and now, without for the moment taking accurate aim, was throwing apple after apple. These small red apples rolled as if electrified around on the floor and collided with each other. A weakly thrown apple grazed Gregor’s back but skidded off harmlessly. However another thrown immediately after that one drove into Gregor’s back really hard. Gregor wanted to drag himself off, as if the unexpected and incredible pain would go away if he changed his position. But he felt as if he was nailed in place and lay stretched out completely confused in all his senses. Only with his final glance did he notice how the door of his room was pulled open and how, right in front of his sister (who was yelling), his mother ran out in her undergarments, for his sister had undressed her in order to give her some freedom to breathe in her fainting spell, and how his mother then ran up to his father, on the way her tied up skirts one after the other slipped toward the floor, and how, tripping over her skirts, she hurled herself onto his father and, throwing her arms around him, in complete union with him—but at this moment Gregor’s powers of sight gave way—as her hands reached to the back of his father’s head and she begged him to spare Gregor’s life.
他父亲从餐具柜上的水果盘里装满了他的口袋，现在，暂时没有准确瞄准，正在一个又一个地扔苹果。这些红红的小苹果就像带电一样在地板上滚来滚去，互相碰撞。一个无力投掷的苹果擦伤了格雷戈尔的背，但没有造成任何伤害。然而，紧接着又扔出一颗，狠狠地撞到了格雷戈尔的背上。格雷戈尔想要拖着自己走，仿佛如果他改变位置，意想不到的、难以置信的痛苦就会消失。但他感觉自己仿佛被钉在了原地，平躺在地上，所有的感官都完全混乱了。直到他最后看了一眼，他才注意到自己房间的门被打开了，就在他姐姐（正在大喊大叫）的面前，他的母亲只穿着内衣跑了出来，因为他的姐姐已经脱掉了她的衣服，以便给她洗澡。她在昏厥中获得了呼吸的自由，然后他的母亲如何跑向他的父亲，在路上，她绑着的裙子一条接一条地滑向地板，以及她如何被裙子绊倒，扑倒在他的父亲身上。父亲，用双臂搂住他，与他完全结合在一起——但此时格里高尔的视力消失了——她的双手伸到了父亲的后脑勺上，恳求他饶了格里高尔一命。

III
三、

Gregor’s serious wound, from which he suffered for over a month (since no one ventured to remove the apple, it remained in his flesh as a visible reminder), seemed by itself to have reminded the father that, in spite of his present unhappy and hateful appearance, Gregor was a member of the family, something one should not treat as an enemy, and that it was, on the contrary, a requirement of family duty to suppress one’s aversion and to endure—nothing else, just endure. And if through his wound Gregor had now apparently lost for good his ability to move and for the time being needed many many minutes to crawl across this room, like an aged invalid (so far as creeping up high was concerned, that was unimaginable), nevertheless for this worsening of his condition, in his opinion, he did get completely satisfactory compensation, because every day towards evening the door to the living room, which he was in the habit of keeping a sharp eye on even one or two hours beforehand, was opened, so that he, lying down in the darkness of his room, invisible from the living room, could see the entire family at the illuminated table and listen to their conversation, to a certain extent with their common permission, a situation quite different from what happened before.
格里高尔受了一个多月的重伤（因为没有人敢把苹果拿走，所以它留在他的肉里，作为一种明显的提醒），似乎本身就提醒了父亲，尽管他目前不快乐，格雷戈尔是一个可恶的外表，是家庭的一员，不应该被视为敌人，相反，抑制厌恶和忍受是家庭义务的要求——没有别的，只是忍受。如果格雷戈尔现在显然因为受伤而永远失去了移动能力，并且暂时需要很多很多分钟才能爬过这个房间，就像一个上了年纪的病人（就爬高而言，这是不可想象的），然而，对于他病情的恶化，在他看来，他确实得到了完全令人满意的补偿，因为每天傍晚时分，他习惯于提前一两个小时密切关注客厅的门，门被打开了，这样，他躺在房间的黑暗中，从客厅看不到，就可以看到全家人坐在发光的桌子旁，听他们的谈话，在某种程度上，在他们共同的许可下，这是一种完全不同的情况从之前发生的事情来看。

Of course, it was no longer the animated social interaction of former times, about which Gregor in small hotel rooms had always thought about with a certain longing, when, tired out, he had to throw himself in the damp bedclothes. For the most part what went on now was very quiet. After the evening meal the father fell asleep quickly in his arm chair; the mother and sister talked guardedly to each other in the stillness. Bent far over, the mother sewed fine undergarments for a fashion shop. The sister, who had taken on a job as a salesgirl, in the evening studied stenography and French, so as perhaps later to obtain a better position. Sometimes the father woke up and, as if he was quite ignorant that he had been asleep, said to the mother ‘How long you have been sewing today!’ and went right back to sleep, while the mother and the sister smiled tiredly to each other.
当然，这不再是以前那种热闹的社交互动，格雷戈尔在旅馆的小房间里总是怀着某种渴望，当他疲惫不堪时，他不得不把自己扔进潮湿的床单里。现在发生的事情大部分都很安静。晚餐后，父亲很快就在扶手椅上睡着了。母亲和妹妹在寂静中小心翼翼地交谈着。母亲弯下腰，为一家时装店缝制精美的内衣。姐姐做了售货员，晚上学习了速记和法语，以便以后能找到更好的职位。有时，父亲醒来，好像完全不知道自己已经睡着了，对母亲说：“你今天缝纫了多久了！”然后又继续睡觉，而母亲和妹妹则疲倦地对着彼此微笑。其他。

With a sort of stubbornness the father refused to take off his servant’s uniform even at home, and while his sleeping gown hung unused on the coat hook, the father dozed completely dressed in his place, as if he was always ready for his responsibility and even here was waiting for the voice of his superior. As result, in spite of all the care of the mother and sister, his uniform, which even at the start was not new, grew dirty, and Gregor looked, often for the entire evening, at this clothing, with stains all over it and with its gold buttons always polished, in which the old man, although very uncomfortable, slept peacefully nonetheless.
带着某种固执，父亲甚至在家里也不肯脱掉仆人的制服，而当他的睡衣挂在衣帽钩上时，父亲则穿着整齐地在自己的位置上打瞌睡，仿佛他随时准备好承担自己的责任，甚至这里等待着上级的声音。结果，尽管母亲和姐姐悉心照料，他的制服一开始就不是新的，但还是变脏了，格里高尔经常整个晚上都看着这件衣服，上面沾满了污渍，金色的纽扣总是擦得锃亮的，老人虽然很不舒服，但睡得却很安稳。

As soon as the clock struck ten, the mother tried encouraging the father gently to wake up and then persuading him to go to bed, on the ground that he couldn’t get a proper sleep here and the father, who had to report for service at six o’clock, really needed a good sleep. But in his stubbornness, which had gripped him since he had become a servant, he insisted always on staying even longer by the table, although he regularly fell asleep and then could only be prevailed upon with the greatest difficulty to trade his chair for the bed. No matter how much the mother and sister might at that point work on him with small admonitions, for a quarter of an hour he would remain shaking his head slowly, his eyes closed, without standing up. The mother would pull him by the sleeve and speak flattering words into his ear; the sister would leave her work to help her mother, but that would not have the desired effect on the father. He would settle himself even more deeply in his arm chair. Only when the two women grabbed him under the armpits would he throw his eyes open, look back and forth at the mother and sister, and habitually say ‘This is a life. This is the peace and quiet of my old age.’ And propped up by both women, he would heave himself up, elaborately, as if for him it was the greatest travail, allow himself to be led to the door by the women, wave them away there, and proceed on his own from there, while the mother quickly threw down her sewing implements and the sister her pen in order to run after the father and help him some more.
时钟一敲到十点，母亲就试图轻轻地把父亲叫醒，然后又劝他去睡觉，理由是他在这里无法好好睡觉，父亲还要去报到。六点了，确实需要好好睡一觉了。但自从他成为仆人以来，他的固执就一直困扰着他，他总是坚持在桌子旁待更长时间，尽管他经常睡着，然后只能在千辛万苦的说服下把椅子换成床。 。无论母亲和姐姐当时如何对他进行小小的警告，他都会在十五分钟的时间里慢慢地摇头，闭着眼睛，没有站起来。母亲会拉着他的袖子，在他耳边说一些奉承的话。姐姐会放下工作去帮助母亲，但这不会对父亲产生预期的效果。他会在扶手椅上坐得更深。只有当两个女人把他搂在腋下时，他才会睁开眼睛，来回看看母亲和妹妹，习惯性地说“这就是生活”。这就是我晚年的平静与安宁。”在两个女人的搀扶下，他小心翼翼地挺起身子，仿佛这对他来说是最大的阵痛，让自己被女人领到门口，挥手致意。他们离开那里，自己从那里出发，而母亲则迅速扔下缝纫工具，妹妹扔下笔，去追赶父亲，帮助他更多。

In this overworked and exhausted family who had time to worry any longer about Gregor more than was absolutely necessary? The household was constantly getting smaller. The servant girl was now let go. A huge bony cleaning woman with white hair flapping all over her head came in the morning and the evening to do the heaviest work. The mother took care of everything else in addition to her considerable sewing work. It even happened that various pieces of family jewelry, which previously the mother and sister had been overjoyed to wear on social and festive occasions, were sold, as Gregor found out in the evening from the general discussion of the prices they had fetched. But the greatest complaint was always that they could not leave this apartment, which was too big for their present means, since it was impossible to imagine how Gregor might be moved. But Gregor fully recognized that it was not just consideration for him which was preventing a move (for he could have been transported easily in a suitable box with a few air holes); the main thing holding the family back from a change in living quarters was far more their complete hopelessness and the idea that they had been struck by a misfortune like no one else in their entire circle of relatives and acquaintances.
在这个劳累过度、筋疲力尽的家庭里，除了绝对必要的事情之外，还有时间再担心格雷戈尔吗？家庭规模不断缩小。婢女现在已经被放走了。一个身材高大、骨瘦如柴、白发飘扬的清洁女工，早晚都来干最繁重的工作。除了大量的缝纫工作外，母亲还负责其他一切。甚至，以前母亲和姐姐在社交和节日场合佩戴的各种家庭珠宝都被卖掉了，格雷戈尔在晚上从对它们的价格进行普遍讨论时发现。但最大的抱怨始终是他们无法离开这间公寓，这对他们目前的能力来说太大了，因为无法想象如何搬走格雷戈尔。但格雷戈尔充分认识到，阻止搬迁的不仅仅是出于对他的考虑（因为他可以很容易地装在一个有几个气孔的合适的盒子里运输）；而且是因为他的身体状况不佳。阻碍这个家庭更换住所的主要原因是他们完全绝望，并且认为他们遭受了与整个亲戚和熟人圈子中其他人不同的不幸。

What the world demands of poor people they now carried out to an extreme degree. The father bought breakfast to the petty officials at the bank, the mother sacrificed herself for the undergarments of strangers, the sister behind her desk was at the beck and call of customers, but the family’s energies did not extend any further. And the wound in his back began to pain Gregor all over again, when now mother and sister, after they had escorted the father to bed, came back, let their work lie, moved close together, and sat cheek to cheek and when his mother would now say, pointing to Gregor’s room, ‘Close the door, Grete,’ and when Gregor was again in the darkness, while close by the women mingled their tears or, quite dry eyed, stared at the table.
他们现在已经将世界对穷人的要求做到了极致。父亲为银行的小官们买早餐，母亲为陌生人牺牲自己的内衣，办公桌后面的姐姐对顾客唯命是从，但一家人的精力并没有进一步延伸。他背上的伤口又开始让格里高尔感到疼痛，这时母亲和妹妹护送父亲上床睡觉，回来了，放下他们的工作，靠在一起，脸贴着脸坐着，当他的母亲现在，他会指着格雷戈尔的房间说：“关上门，格雷特。”当格雷戈尔再次陷入黑暗时，附近的女人们都流着泪水，或者干巴巴地盯着桌子。

Gregor spent his nights and days with hardly any sleep. Sometimes he thought that the next time the door opened he would take over the family arrangements just as he had earlier. In his imagination appeared again, after a long time, his employer and supervisor and the apprentices, the excessively gormless custodian, two or three friends from other businesses, a chambermaid from a hotel in the provinces, a loving fleeting memory, a female cashier from a hat shop, whom he had seriously, but too slowly courted—they all appeared mixed in with strangers or people he had already forgotten, but instead of helping him and his family, they were all unapproachable, and he was happy to see them disappear.
格里高尔日日夜夜几乎没有睡觉。有时他想，下次门打开时，他会像以前一样接管家庭的安排。许久之后，他的想象中再次出现了雇主、主管和学徒们、极其不懂事的保管员、两三个外行的朋友、外省旅馆的女服务员、一段充满爱意的转瞬即逝的记忆、一个来自外地的女收银员。一家帽子店，他曾认真地向他们求爱，但太慢了——他们都和陌生人或他已经忘记的人混在一起，但他们不但没有帮助他和他的家人，而且都难以接近，他很高兴看到他们消失。

But then he was in no mood to worry about his family. He was filled with sheer anger over the wretched care he was getting, even though he couldn’t imagine anything for which he might have an appetite. Still, he made plans about how he could take from the larder what he at all account deserved, even if he wasn’t hungry. Without thinking any more about how one might be able to give Gregor special pleasure, the sister now kicked some food or other very quickly into his room in the morning and at noon, before she ran off to her shop, and in the evening, quite indifferent about whether the food had perhaps only been tasted or, what happened most frequently, remained entirely undisturbed, she whisked it out with one sweep of her broom. The task of cleaning his room, which she now always carried out in the evening, could not be done any more quickly. Streaks of dirt ran along the walls; here and there lay tangles of dust and garbage. At first, when his sister arrived, Gregor positioned himself in a particularly filthy corner in order with this posture to make something of a protest. But he could have well stayed there for weeks without his sister’s changing her ways. Indeed, she perceived the dirt as much as he did, but she had decided just to let it stay.
但那时他没有心情担心他的家人。他对自己所受到的悲惨照顾充满了纯粹的愤怒，尽管他无法想象有什么是他可能感兴趣的。尽管如此，他还是制定了计划，考虑如何从食品储藏室中拿走他应得的东西，即使他并不饿。不再考虑如何才能给格里高尔带来特别的快乐，姐姐现在早上和中午都很快地把一些食物或其他东西踢进他的房间，然后跑到她的商店，晚上，相当快。她并不关心这些食物是否只是尝过，或者最常见的情况是完全没有受到干扰，她用扫帚一扫，就把它扫了出来。打扫他的房间的任务，现在她总是在晚上进行，但完成得实在是太快了。墙壁上布满了泥土。到处都是灰尘和垃圾。起初，当他的妹妹到达时，格雷戈尔把自己放在一个特别肮脏的角落里，以便用这个姿势做出某种抗议。但如果他的妹妹没有改变她的生活方式，他很可能会在那里待上几个星期。事实上，她和他一样察觉到了污垢，但她决定让它留下来。

In this business, with a touchiness which was quite new to her and which had generally taken over the entire family, she kept watch to see that the cleaning of Gregor’s room remained reserved for her. Once his mother had undertaken a major cleaning of Gregor’s room, which she had only completed successfully after using a few buckets of water. But the extensive dampness made Gregor sick and he lay supine, embittered and immobile on the couch. However, the mother’s punishment was not delayed for long. For in the evening the sister had hardly observed the change in Gregor’s room before she ran into the living room mightily offended and, in spite of her mother’s hand lifted high in entreaty, broke out in a fit of crying. Her parents (the father had, of course, woken up with a start in his arm chair) at first looked at her astonished and helpless; until they started to get agitated. Turning to his right, the father heaped reproaches on the mother that she was not to take over the cleaning of Gregor’s room from the sister and, turning to his left, he shouted at the sister that she would no longer be allowed to clean Gregor’s room ever again, while the mother tried to pull the father, beside himself in his excitement, into the bed room; the sister, shaken by her crying fit, pounded on the table with her tiny fists, and Gregor hissed at all this, angry that no one thought about shutting the door and sparing him the sight of this commotion.
在这件事上，她带着一种对她来说很新鲜的感觉，而且这种感觉通常占据了整个家庭，她一直留意着，确保格雷戈尔的房间的清洁工作仍然是由她保留的。有一次，他的母亲对格雷戈尔的房间进行了一次大扫除，她用了几桶水才成功完成。但大范围的潮湿让格雷戈尔感到恶心，他仰卧在沙发上，痛苦地一动不动。然而，母亲的惩罚并没有耽搁太久。因为到了晚上，姐姐几乎没注意到格里高尔房间里的变化，就非常生气地跑进客厅，不顾母亲高高举起的手恳求，还是放声大哭起来。她的父母（当然，父亲是在扶手椅上惊醒的）一开始惊讶而无助地看着她。直到他们开始焦躁起来。父亲转向右边，责备母亲，说她不应该从姐姐手中接手打扫格雷戈尔的房间；转向左边，他对妹妹大喊大叫，说她将不再被允许打扫格雷戈尔的房间。再次，当母亲试图将激动得无法自已的父亲拉进卧室时；妹妹被哭得浑身发抖，用小拳头敲打着桌子，格雷戈尔对这一切发出嘶嘶声，很生气没有人考虑关上门，不让他看到这场骚动。

But even when the sister, exhausted from her daily work, had grown tired of caring for Gregor as she had before, even then the mother did not have to come at all on her behalf. And Gregor did not have to be neglected. For now the cleaning woman was there. This old widow, who in her long life must have managed to survive the worst with the help of her bony frame, had no real horror of Gregor. Without being in the least curious, she had once by chance opened Gregor’s door. At the sight of Gregor, who, totally surprised, began to scamper here and there, although no one was chasing him, she remained standing with her hands folded across her stomach staring at him. Since then she did not fail to open the door furtively a little every morning and evening to look in on Gregor. At first, she also called him to her with words which she presumably thought were friendly, like ‘Come here for a bit, old dung beetle!’ or ‘Hey, look at the old dung beetle!’ Addressed in such a manner, Gregor answered nothing, but remained motionless in his place, as if the door had not been opened at all. If only, instead of allowing this cleaning woman to disturb him uselessly whenever she felt like it, they had instead given her orders to clean up his room every day! One day in the early morning (a hard downpour, perhaps already a sign of the coming spring, struck the window panes) when the cleaning woman started up once again with her usual conversation, Gregor was so bitter that he turned towards her, as if for an attack, although slowly and weakly. But instead of being afraid of him, the cleaning woman merely lifted up a chair standing close by the door and, as she stood there with her mouth wide open, her intention was clear: she would close her mouth only when the chair in her hand had been thrown down on Gregor’s back. ‘This goes no further, all right?’ she asked, as Gregor turned himself around again, and she placed the chair calmly back in the corner.
但即使姐姐因日常工作而精疲力竭，厌倦了像以前那样照顾格里高尔，母亲也根本不必代表她来。格雷戈尔也不必被忽视。现在清洁女工就在那里。这位老寡妇在她漫长的一生中一定是在她骨瘦如柴的身躯的帮助下度过了最艰难的时期，她对格里高尔并没有真正的恐惧。有一次，她毫无好奇地打开了格雷戈尔的门。一看到格雷戈尔，他大吃一惊，开始到处乱窜，虽然没有人追他，但她仍然双手交叉抱在肚子上，盯着他。从此以后，她每天早晚都会偷偷地把门打开一点，看看格里高尔。起初，她还用一些她认为是友好的话把他叫到身边，比如“过来一下，老粪甲虫！”或者“嘿，看看老粪甲虫！”格雷戈尔以这样的方式称呼他。没有回答，只是站在原地一动不动，就像门根本没有被打开过一样。要是他们不再让这个清洁女工无谓地打扰他，而是命令她每天打扫他的房间就好了！一天清晨（一场倾盆大雨，敲打着窗玻璃，也许已经是春天到来的征兆），当清洁女工又开始她平常的谈话时，格雷戈尔非常痛苦，他转向她，仿佛进行攻击，尽管缓慢且微弱。 但清洁女工并没有害怕他，只是举起了靠近门口的一把椅子，张大了嘴巴站在那里，她的意图很明显：只有椅子在她手里，她才会闭上嘴。被扔到格雷戈尔的背上。 “就这样了，好吗？”当格雷戈尔再次转过身来时，她问道，然后她平静地将椅子放回角落里。

Gregor ate hardly anything any more. Only when he chanced to move past the food which had been prepared did he, as a game, take a bit into his mouth, hold it there for hours, and generally spit it out again. At first he thought it might be his sadness over the condition of his room which kept him from eating, but he very soon became reconciled to the alterations in his room. People had grown accustomed to put into storage in his room things which they couldn’t put anywhere else, and at this point there were many such things, now that they had rented one room of the apartment to three lodgers. These solemn gentlemen (all three had full beards, as Gregor once found out through a crack in the door) were meticulously intent on tidiness, not only in their own room but (since they had now rented a room here) in the entire household, and particularly in the kitchen. They simply did not tolerate any useless or shoddy stuff. Moreover, for the most part they had brought with them their own pieces of furniture. Thus, many items had become superfluous, and these were not really things one could sell or things people wanted to throw out. All these items ended up in Gregor’s room, even the box of ashes and the garbage pail from the kitchen. The cleaning woman, always in a hurry, simply flung anything that was momentarily useless into Gregor’s room. Fortunately Gregor generally saw only the relevant object and the hand which held it. The cleaning woman perhaps was intending, when time and opportunity allowed, to take the stuff out again or to throw everything out all at once, but in fact the things remained lying there, wherever they had ended up at the first throw, unless Gregor squirmed his way through the accumulation of junk and moved it. At first he was forced to do this because otherwise there was no room for him to creep around, but later he did it with a with a growing pleasure, although after such movements, tired to death and feeling wretched, he didn’t budge for hours.
格雷戈尔几乎不再吃任何东西了。只有当他碰巧经过准备好的食物时，他才会像游戏一样，吃一点到嘴里，保持几个小时，然后再吐出来。起初他以为可能是因为对房间的状况感到悲伤而无法进食，但他很快就接受了房间的改变。人们已经习惯了在他的房间里存放一些不能放在其他地方的东西，而现在这样的东西还有很多，因为他们把公寓的一间房间租给了三个房客。这些庄严的绅士（格里高尔有一次从门缝里发现，这三个人都留着胡须）一丝不苟地保持整洁，不仅在他们自己的房间里，而且（因为他们现在在这里租了一个房间）整个家庭，尤其是在厨房里。他们根本不容忍任何无用或伪劣的东西。而且，大多数情况下他们都带来了自己的家具。于是，很多东西就变得多余了，这些东西并不是真正可以卖的东西，也不是人们想扔掉的东西。所有这些物品最终都进入了格雷戈尔的房间，甚至包括厨房里的一盒骨灰和垃圾桶。清洁女工总是很匆忙，只是把暂时没用的东西扔进格雷戈尔的房间。幸运的是，格雷戈尔通常只看到相关的物体和握住它的手。清洁女工也许打算，当时间和机会允许时，再把东西拿出来，或者一下子把所有东西都扔掉，但事实上，这些东西仍然躺在那里，不管它们第一次扔到哪里，除非格雷戈尔蠕动了一下。他通过堆积的垃圾并移动了它。 起初他是被迫这样做的，因为否则他就没有空间爬来爬去，但后来他越来越高兴地这样做了，尽管这样的动作之后，他累得要命，感觉很可怜，他一动也不动。小时。

Because the lodgers sometimes also took their evening meal at home in the common living room, the door to the living room stayed shut on many evenings. But Gregor had no trouble at all going without the open door. Already on many evenings when it was open he had not availed himself of it, but, without the family noticing, was stretched out in the darkest corner of his room. However, once the cleaning woman had left the door to the living room slightly ajar, and it remained open even when the lodgers came in in the evening and the lights were put on. They sat down at the head of the table, where in earlier days the mother, the father, and Gregor had eaten, unfolded their serviettes, and picked up their knives and forks. The mother immediately appeared in the door with a dish of meat and right behind her the sister with a dish piled high with potatoes. The food gave off a lot of steam. The gentlemen lodgers bent over the plate set before them, as if they wanted to check it before eating, and in fact the one who sat in the middle (for the other two he seemed to serve as the authority) cut off a piece of meat still on the plate obviously to establish whether it was sufficiently tender and whether or not something should be shipped back to the kitchen. He was satisfied, and mother and sister, who had looked on in suspense, began to breathe easily and to smile.
由于房客们有时也在家里的公共客厅里吃晚饭，所以很多晚上客厅的门都是关着的。但格雷戈尔在没有开着门的情况下完全没有困难。已经有很多个晚上，当门开放时，他都没有利用它，但在家人没有注意到的情况下，他躺在房间最黑暗的角落里。然而，清洁女工把客厅的门半开着，即使晚上房客进来，灯也亮了，门仍然开着。他们在桌子的一头坐下，以前母亲、父亲和格雷戈尔就是在这里吃饭、展开餐巾、拿起刀叉的。母亲立即端着一盘肉出现在门口，紧随其后的是妹妹，端着一盘堆满了土豆的盘子。食物散发出大量的蒸汽。绅士房客俯身于摆在面前的盘子上，好像要在吃饭前检查一下，事实上，坐在中间的那个（对于另外两个人来说，他似乎是权威）切下了一块肉显然仍然在盘子上，以确定它是否足够嫩以及是否应该将某些东西运回厨房。他很满意，原本一脸悬念的母亲和妹妹也开始呼吸顺畅，脸上露出笑容。

The family itself ate in the kitchen. In spite of that, before the father went into the kitchen, he came into the room and with a single bow, cap in hand, made a tour of the table. The lodgers rose up collectively and murmured something in their beards. Then, when they were alone, they ate almost in complete silence. It seemed odd to Gregor that out of all the many different sorts of sounds of eating, what was always audible was their chewing teeth, as if by that Gregor should be shown that people needed their teeth to eat and that nothing could be done even with the most handsome toothless jawbone. ‘I really do have an appetite,’ Gregor said to himself sorrowfully, ‘but not for these things. How these lodgers stuff themselves, and I am dying.’
一家人自己在厨房吃饭。尽管如此，父亲在走进厨房之前，还是走进了房间，手持帽子，鞠了一躬，在桌子上巡视了一圈。房客们集体站了起来，胡须里嘀咕着什么。然后，当他们独处时，他们几乎完全沉默地吃饭。格雷戈尔觉得奇怪的是，在各种各样的吃饭声音中，总是能听到他们咀嚼牙齿的声音，仿佛通过这可以向格雷戈尔表明，人们需要牙齿才能吃饭，即使有牙齿也无济于事。最帅的无牙颌骨。 “我确实有胃口，”格雷戈尔悲伤地自言自语道，“但不是为了这些东西。”这些房客怎么填饱肚子，我快死了。

On this very evening (Gregor didn’t remember hearing the violin all through this period) it sounded from the kitchen. The lodgers had already ended their night meal, the middle one had pulled out a newspaper and had given each of the other two a page, and they were now leaning back, reading and smoking. When the violin started playing, they became attentive, got up, and went on tiptoe to the hall door, at which they remained standing pressed up against one another. They must have been audible from the kitchen, because the father called out ‘Perhaps the gentlemen don’t like the playing? It can be stopped at once.’ ‘On the contrary,’ stated the lodger in the middle, ‘might the young woman not come into us and play in the room here where it is really much more comfortable and cheerful?’ ‘Oh, thank you,’ cried out the father, as if he were the one playing the violin. The men stepped back into the room and waited. Soon the father came with the music stand, the mother with the sheet music, and the sister with the violin. The sister calmly prepared everything for the recital. The parents, who had never previously rented a room and therefore exaggerated their politeness to the lodgers, dared not sit on their own chairs. The father leaned against the door, his right hand stuck between two buttons of his buttoned up uniform. The mother, however, accepted a chair offered by one lodger. Since she left the chair sit where the gentleman had chanced to put it, she sat to one side in a corner.
就在这个晚上（格雷戈尔不记得在这段时间里一直听到小提琴声）厨房里响起了声音。房客们已经吃完晚饭了，中间的一个拿出了一张报纸，给了另外两个人每人一页，现在他们靠在椅背上看书，抽烟。当小提琴开始演奏时，他们全神贯注地站起来，踮起脚尖走到厅门前，紧紧地站在一起。厨房里肯定能听到他们的声音，因为父亲喊道：“也许先生们不喜欢演奏？”可以立刻停止。” “恰恰相反，”中间的房客说道，“那位年轻女子可能不会到我们这里来，到这里的房间里去玩，那里真的更舒服、更令人愉快？” “哦，谢谢你，”父亲喊道，好像他就是拉小提琴的人。男人们走回房间里等待。不久，父亲拿着乐谱架来了，母亲拿着乐谱，妹妹拿着小提琴来了。姐姐平静地准备着演奏会的一切。父母从来没有租过房间，因此对房客过于客气，不敢坐在自己的椅子上。父亲靠在门上，右手插在他扣紧的制服的两颗纽扣之间。然而，这位母亲接受了一位房客提供的一把椅子。由于她把椅子放在那位绅士偶然放的地方，所以她坐在角落的一侧。

The sister began to play. The father and mother, followed attentively, one on each side, the movements of her hands. Attracted by the playing, Gregor had ventured to advance a little further forward and his head was already in the living room. He scarcely wondered about the fact that recently he had had so little consideration for the others; earlier this consideration had been something he was proud of. And for that very reason he would’ve had at this moment more reason to hide away, because as a result of the dust which lay all over his room and flew around with the slightest movement, he was totally covered in dirt. On his back and his sides he carted around with him dust, threads, hair, and remnants of food. His indifference to everything was much too great for him to lie on his back and scour himself on the carpet, as he often had done earlier during the day. In spite of his condition he had no timidity about inching forward a bit on the spotless floor of the living room.
姐姐开始玩了。父亲和母亲两侧各一人，聚精会神地注视着她双手的动作。格雷戈尔被演奏所吸引，冒险向前走了一点，他的头已经到了客厅。他几乎不奇怪最近他很少考虑其他人的事实。早些时候，这种考虑让他感到自豪。正因为如此，他此时更有理由躲起来，因为他的房间里满是灰尘，稍稍一动就飞扬起来，他就浑身都是泥土。他的背上和身体两侧都带着灰尘、线头、头发和食物残渣。他对一切都漠不关心，无法像白天早些时候经常做的那样仰面躺着，在地毯上擦洗。尽管身体状况不佳，但他毫不犹豫地在客厅一尘不染的地板上向前挪动了一点。

In any case, no one paid him any attention. The family was all caught up in the violin playing. The lodgers, by contrast, who for the moment had placed themselves, their hands in their trouser pockets, behind the music stand much too close to the sister, so that they could all see the sheet music, something that must certainly bother the sister, soon drew back to the window conversing in low voices with bowed heads, where they then remained, worriedly observed by the father. It now seemed really clear that, having assumed they were to hear a beautiful or entertaining violin recital, they were disappointed, and were allowing their peace and quiet to be disturbed only out of politeness. The way in which they all blew the smoke from their cigars out of their noses and mouths in particular led one to conclude that they were very irritated. And yet his sister was playing so beautifully. Her face was turned to the side, her gaze followed the score intently and sadly. Gregor crept forward still a little further and kept his head close against the floor in order to be able to catch her gaze if possible. Was he an animal that music so seized him? For him it was as if the way to the unknown nourishment he craved was revealing itself to him. He was determined to press forward right to his sister, to tug at her dress and to indicate to her in this way that she might still come with her violin into his room, because here no one valued the recital as he wanted to value it. He did not wish to let her go from his room any more, at least not as long as he lived. His frightening appearance would for the first time become useful for him. He wanted to be at all the doors of his room simultaneously and snarl back at the attackers. However, his sister should not be compelled but would remain with him voluntarily; she would sit next to him on the sofa, bend down her ear to him, and he would then confide in her that he firmly intended to send her to the conservatory and that, if his misfortune had not arrived in the interim, he would have declared all this last Christmas (had Christmas really already come and gone?), and would have brooked no argument. After this explanation his sister would break out in tears of emotion, and Gregor would lift himself up to her armpit and kiss her throat, which she, from the time she started going to work, had left exposed without a band or a collar.
无论如何，没有人理会他。一家人都沉浸在小提琴演奏中。相比之下，房客们暂时把手插在裤兜里，站在乐谱架后面，离姐姐太近了，这样他们都能看到乐谱，这肯定会让姐姐感到困扰，很快，他们又退到窗边，低着头低声交谈，然后他们就留在那里，父亲忧心忡忡地观察着。现在看来很清楚，他们原本以为自己会听到一场优美或有趣的小提琴演奏会，但他们很失望，只是出于礼貌才允许自己的平静与安宁被打扰。他们从鼻子和嘴里吹出雪茄烟雾的方式尤其让人觉得他们非常恼火。然而他的妹妹却弹得那么漂亮。她的脸转向一边，目光专注而悲伤地追随着乐谱。格雷戈尔又向前爬了一点，把头贴在地板上，以便尽可能地捕捉到她的目光。他是一种被音乐如此吸引的动物吗？对他来说，似乎通往他所渴望的未知营养的道路正在向他显现。他决心径直走向他的妹妹，拉扯她的衣服，并以这种方式向她表明她仍然可以带着小提琴进入他的房间，因为这里没有人像他一样重视独奏会。他不想再让她离开他的房间，至少在他有生之年。他可怕的外表第一次对他有用。他想同时出现在他房间的所有门前，向袭击者咆哮。 但他的妹妹不应该被强迫，而是会自愿留在他身边；她会坐在他旁边的沙发上，弯下耳朵听他说话，然后他会向她吐露，他坚决打算送她去音乐学院，如果他的不幸没有在这期间到来，他就会去年圣诞节宣布了这一切（圣诞节真的已经来了又走了吗？），并且不容任何争论。听完这个解释后，他的妹妹会激动得热泪盈眶，而格里高尔则把自己举到她的腋下，亲吻她的喉咙，而从她开始工作起，她的喉咙就暴露在外面，没有带子或项圈。

‘Mr. Samsa,’ called out the middle lodger to the father, and pointed his index finger, without uttering a further word, at Gregor as he was moving slowly forward. The violin fell silent. The middle lodger smiled, first shaking his head once at his friends, and then looked down at Gregor once more. Rather than driving Gregor back again, the father seemed to consider it of prime importance to calm down the lodgers, although they were not at all upset and Gregor seemed to entertain them more than the violin recital. The father hurried over to them and with outstretched arms tried to push them into their own room and simultaneously to block their view of Gregor with his own body. At this point they became really somewhat irritated, although one no longer knew whether that was because of the father’s behaviour or because of knowledge they had just acquired that they had had, without knowing it, a neighbour like Gregor. They demanded explanations from his father, raised their arms to make their points, tugged agitatedly at their beards, and moved back towards their room quite slowly. In the meantime, the isolation which had suddenly fallen upon his sister after the sudden breaking off of the recital had overwhelmed her. She had held onto the violin and bow in her limp hands for a little while and had continued to look at the sheet music as if she was still playing. All at once she pulled herself together, placed the instrument in her mother’s lap (the mother was still sitting in her chair having trouble breathing and with her lungs labouring) and had run into the next room, which the lodgers, pressured by the father, were already approaching more rapidly. One could observe how under the sister’s practiced hands the sheets and pillows on the beds were thrown on high and arranged. Even before the lodgers had reached the room, she was finished fixing the beds and was slipping out. The father seemed so gripped once again with his stubbornness that he forgot about the respect which he always owed to his renters. He pressed on and on, until at the door of the room the middle gentleman stamped loudly with his foot and thus brought the father to a standstill. ‘I hereby declare,’ the middle lodger said, raising his hand and casting his glance both on the mother and the sister, ‘that considering the disgraceful conditions prevailing in this apartment and family,’ with this he spat decisively on the floor, ‘I immediately cancel my room. I will, of course, pay nothing at all for the days which I have lived here; on the contrary I shall think about whether or not I will initiate some sort of action against you, something which—believe me— will be very easy to establish.’ He fell silent and looked directly in front of him, as if he was waiting for something. In fact, his two friends immediately joined in with their opinions, ‘We also give immediate notice.’ At that he seized the door handle, banged the door shut, and locked it.
'先生。萨姆萨，”中间的房客向父亲喊道，然后用食指指着慢慢向前走的格雷戈尔，没有再说什么。小提琴静了下来。中间的房客微笑着，先是对他的朋友们摇了摇头，然后又低头看着格雷戈尔。父亲似乎没有把格雷戈尔再次赶回来，而是认为最重要的是让房客们平静下来，尽管他们一点也不难过，而且格雷戈尔似乎比小提琴演奏会更能娱乐他们。父亲急忙走到他们身边，伸出双臂试图将他们推入自己的房间，同时用自己的身体挡住他们看格雷戈尔的视线。此时他们真的有点恼火了，尽管人们已经不知道这是因为父亲的行为，还是因为他们刚刚了解到，他们在不知情的情况下有一个像格雷戈尔这样的邻居。他们要求他父亲做出解释，举起手臂表达自己的观点，焦躁地拉扯胡须，然后慢慢地走回自己的房间。与此同时，由于演奏会突然中断，妹妹突然感到孤立无援。她无力的手里握着小提琴和弓一会儿，继续看着乐谱，好像她还在演奏。突然，她振作起来，把仪器放在母亲的腿上（母亲仍然坐在椅子上，呼吸困难，肺部工作），然后跑进隔壁房间，房客们在父亲的压力下，我们已经在更快地接近了。 可以看到床上的床单和枕头在姐姐熟练的双手下是如何被高高抛起并整理好的。房客还没有到达房间，她就已经把床铺修好了，正要溜出去。父亲似乎再次被自己的固执所困扰，以至于忘记了他一直对租客们应有的尊重。他继续往前走，直到到了房门口，那位中绅用脚重重地跺了一下，父亲才停下来。 “我特此声明，”中间的房客举起手，看了一眼母亲和妹妹，“考虑到这间公寓和这个家庭普遍存在的可耻状况，”他果断地向地板上吐了一口口水，“我立即取消了我的房间。当然，我不会为我在这里生活的日子支付任何费用。 “相反，我会考虑是否要对你采取某种行动，相信我，这种行动很容易确定。”他沉默了，直视前方，仿佛在等待。为了某件事。事实上，他的两个朋友立即附和了他们的意见，“我们也立即通知。”说着，他抓住门把手，砰地关上门，然后锁上。

The father groped his way tottering to his chair and let himself fall in it. It looked as if he was stretching out for his usual evening snooze, but the heavy nodding of his head (which looked as if it was without support) showed that he was not sleeping at all. Gregor had lain motionless the entire time in the spot where the lodgers had caught him. Disappointment with the collapse of his plan and perhaps also his weakness brought on his severe hunger made it impossible for him to move. He was certainly afraid that a general disaster would break over him at any moment, and he waited. He was not even startled when the violin fell from the mother’s lap, out from under her trembling fingers, and gave off a reverberating tone.
父亲摇摇晃晃地摸索着走到椅子上，然后就倒在了椅子上。看起来他好像是在像往常一样在晚上小睡，但他重重地点头（看起来好像没有支撑）表明他根本没有睡觉。格雷戈尔一直一动不动地躺在房客们抓住他的地方。对计划失败的失望，或许还有虚弱带来的饥饿感，让他无法动弹。他当然害怕一场大灾难随时会降临到他身上，所以他等待着。当小提琴从母亲的膝上、从她颤抖的手指下掉下来、发出回响的声音时，他甚至没有感到惊讶。

‘My dear parents,’ said the sister banging her hand on the table by way of an introduction, ‘things cannot go on any longer in this way. Maybe if you don’t understand that, well, I do. I will not utter my brother’s name in front of this monster, and thus I say only that we must try to get rid of it. We have tried what is humanly possible to take care of it and to be patient. I believe that no one can criticize us in the slightest.’ ‘She is right in a thousand ways,’ said the father to himself. The mother, who was still incapable of breathing properly, began to cough numbly with her hand held up over her mouth and a manic expression in her eyes.
“我亲爱的父母，”姐姐用手敲着桌子介绍道，“事情不能再这样下去了。也许你不明白，好吧，我明白。我不会在这个怪物面前说出我兄弟的名字，因此我只是说我们必须设法除掉它。我们已尝试尽一切可能来处理它并保持耐心。我相信没有人可以批评我们一丁点。” “她在一千个方面都是对的，”父亲自言自语道。母亲仍然无法正常呼吸，她用手捂着嘴，开始麻木地咳嗽，眼神里充满了狂躁。

The sister hurried over to her mother and held her forehead. The sister’s words seemed to have led the father to certain reflections. He sat upright, played with his uniform hat among the plates, which still lay on the table from the lodgers’ evening meal, and looked now and then at the motionless Gregor.
妹妹赶紧跑到妈妈身边，按住了她的额头。姐姐的话似乎引起了父亲的一些思考。他坐直身子，在盘子里摆弄着他的制服帽子，这些盘子仍然放在房客晚餐时的桌子上，时不时地看看一动不动的格雷戈尔。

‘We must try to get rid of it,’ the sister now said decisively to the father, for the mother, in her coughing fit, wasn’t listening to anything, ‘it is killing you both. I see it coming. When people have to work as hard as we all do, they cannot also tolerate this endless torment at home. I just can’t go on any more.’ And she broke out into such a crying fit that her tears flowed out down onto her mother’s face. She wiped them off her mother with mechanical motions of her hands.
“我们必须设法摆脱它，”妹妹现在果断地对父亲说，因为母亲咳嗽得很厉害，什么也没听，“它正在杀死你们两个。”我看到它来了。当人们必须像我们一样努力工作时，他们也无法忍受在家中这种无休止的折磨。我实在是受不了了。”她突然哭了起来，眼泪都流到了母亲的脸上。她用手机械地动作把它们从母亲身上擦掉。

‘Child,’ said the father sympathetically and with obvious appreciation, ‘then what should we do?’
“孩子，”父亲同情地说道，脸上带着明显的赞赏，“那我们该怎么办呢？”

The sister only shrugged her shoulders as a sign of the perplexity which, in contrast to her previous confidence, had come over her while she was crying.
妹妹只是耸了耸肩，表示她在哭泣时感到困惑，与之前的自信形成鲜明对比。

‘If only he understood us,’ said the father in a semi-questioning tone. The sister, in the midst of her sobbing, shook her hand energetically as a sign that there was no point thinking of that.
“如果他能理解我们就好了，”父亲用半询问的语气说道。姐姐一边抽泣，一边用力地握着自己的手，示意自己没有必要再想这些了。

‘If he only understood us,’ repeated the father and by shutting his eyes he absorbed the sister’s conviction of the impossibility of this point, ‘then perhaps some compromise would be possible with him. But as it is …’
“如果他能理解我们，”父亲重复道，闭上眼睛，他理解了妹妹关于这一点不可能的信念，“那么也许与他达成某种妥协是可能的。”但既然如此……”

‘It must be gotten rid of,’ cried the sister; ‘That is the only way, father. You must try to get rid of the idea that this is Gregor. The fact that we have believed for so long, that is truly our real misfortune. But how can it be Gregor? If it were Gregor, he would have long ago realized that a communal life among human beings is not possible with such an animal and would have gone away voluntarily. Then we would not have a brother, but we could go on living and honour his memory. But this animal plagues us. It drives away the lodgers, will obviously take over the entire apartment, and leave us to spend the night in the alley. Just look, father,’ she suddenly cried out, ‘he’s already starting up again.’ With a fright which was totally incomprehensible to Gregor, the sister even left the mother, pushed herself away from her chair, as if she would sooner sacrifice her mother than remain in Gregor’s vicinity, and rushed behind her father who, excited merely by her behaviour, also stood up and half raised his arms in front of the sister as though to protect her.
“必须把它除掉，”姐姐喊道。 “这是唯一的办法，父亲。你必须努力摆脱“这是格雷戈尔”的想法。我们相信了这么久，这确实是我们真正的不幸。但怎么可能是格雷戈尔呢？如果是格雷戈尔，他早就意识到人类不可能与这样的动物一起生活，并且会自愿离开。这样我们就不会再有兄弟了，但我们可以继续生活并纪念他。但这种动物却困扰着我们。它赶走了房客，显然会占领整个公寓，让我们在巷子里过夜。你看，爸爸，”她突然喊道，“他已经又站起来了。”带着格雷戈尔完全无法理解的恐惧，妹妹甚至离开了母亲，把自己从椅子上推开，仿佛她宁愿牺牲自己母亲没有留在格雷戈尔附近，冲到父亲身后，父亲仅仅因为她的行为而兴奋，也站起来，在妹妹面前半举起双臂，好像要保护她。

But Gregor did not have any notion of wishing to create problems for anyone and certainly not for his sister. He had just started to turn himself around in order to creep back into his room, quite a startling sight, since, as a result of his suffering condition, he had to guide himself through the difficulty of turning around with his head, in this process lifting and banging it against the floor several times. He paused and looked around. His good intentions seem to have been recognized. The fright had only lasted for a moment. Now they looked at him in silence and sorrow. His mother lay in her chair, with her legs stretched out and pressed together; her eyes were almost shut from weariness. The father and sister sat next to one another. The sister had set her hands around the father’s neck.
但格雷戈尔无意给任何人制造麻烦，当然也不想给他的妹妹制造麻烦。他刚刚开始转身，准备爬回自己的房间，这是一个相当惊人的景象，因为由于他的痛苦状况，他必须引导自己克服用头转身的困难，在这个过程中将其举起并撞击地板数次。他停下来环顾四周。他的好意似乎得到了认可。恐惧只持续了片刻。现在他们默默地、悲伤地看着他。他的母亲躺在椅子上，双腿伸直并拢。她的眼睛几乎因疲倦而闭上。父亲和妹妹坐在一起。妹妹双手搂住父亲的脖子。

‘ Now perhaps I can actually turn myself around,’ thought Gregor and began the task again. He couldn’t stop puffing at the effort and had to rest now and then.
“现在也许我真的可以扭转局面了，”格雷戈尔想，然后又开始了这项任务。他无法停止呼吸，不得不时不时地休息一下。

Besides no on was urging him on. It was all left to him on his own. When he had completed turning around, he immediately began to wander straight back. He was astonished at the great distance which separated him from his room and did not understand in the least how in his weakness he had covered the same distance a short time before, almost without noticing it. Constantly intent only on creeping along quickly, he hardly paid any attention to the fact that no word or cry from his family interrupted him.
而且没有人催促他。一切都留给了他一个人。当他转身完毕后，立刻开始往回走。他对自己和房间之间的距离感到惊讶，并且完全不明白，在他的虚弱状态下，他是如何在不久前几乎没有注意到的情况下走过同样的距离的。他一心只想快点爬行，几乎没有注意到家人没有任何言语或哭声打扰他。

Only when he was already in the door did he turn his head, not completely, because he felt his neck growing stiff. At any rate he still saw that behind him nothing had changed. Only the sister was standing up. His last glimpse brushed over the mother who was now completely asleep. Hardly was he inside his room when the door was pushed shut very quickly, bolted fast, and barred. Gregor was startled by the sudden commotion behind him, so much so that his little limbs bent double under him. It was his sister who had been in such a hurry. She had stood up right away, had waited, and had then sprung forward nimbly. Gregor had not heard anything of her approach. She cried out ‘Finally!’ to her parents, as she turned the key in the lock.
直到进了门，他才转过头，但没有完全转过头，因为他感觉脖子僵硬了。无论如何，他仍然看到身后没有任何变化。只有姐姐站着。他的最后一瞥掠过正在熟睡的母亲。他刚进自己的房间，门就被很快地推上，锁紧，并锁上。格雷戈尔被身后突然发生的骚动吓了一跳，以至于他的小四肢都弯成两半了。原来是他姐姐这么着急。她立刻站了起来，等了一会儿，然后敏捷地向前一跃。格雷戈尔没有听到她接近的任何消息。当她转动钥匙时，她向父母喊道“终于！”。

‘What now?’ Gregor asked himself and looked around him in the darkness. He soon made the discovery that he could no longer move at all. He was not surprised at that. On the contrary, it struck him as unnatural that he had really been able up to this point to move around with these thin little legs. Besides he felt relatively content. True, he had pains throughout his entire body, but it seemed to him that they were gradually becoming weaker and weaker and would finally go away completely. The rotten apple in his back and the inflamed surrounding area, entirely covered with white dust, he hardly noticed. He remembered his family with deep feeling and love. In this business, his own thought that he had to disappear was, if possible, even more decisive than his sister’s. He remained in this state of empty and peaceful reflection until the tower clock struck three o’clock in the morning. From the window he witnessed the beginning of the general dawning outside. Then without willing it, his head sank all the way down, and from his nostrils flowed out weakly out his last breath.
“现在怎么办？”格雷戈尔问自己，并在黑暗中环顾四周。很快他就发现自己已经无法动弹了。他对此并不感到惊讶。相反，他竟然能用这双细细的小腿走动到这个地步，这让他觉得很不自然。而且他还觉得比较满足。确实，他全身都在疼痛，但在他看来，这些疼痛正在逐渐变得越来越弱，最终会完全消失。背上的烂苹果和周围发炎的地方，布满了白色的灰尘，他几乎没有注意到。他怀着深深的感情和爱回忆着他的家人。在这件事上，如果可能的话，他自己必须消失的想法甚至比他姐姐的想法更加坚决。他一直处于这种空虚而平静的沉思状态，直到塔楼的时钟敲响了凌晨三点。他从窗户里看到外面黎明的曙光。然后他的头不由自主地低了下来，鼻孔里微弱地流出了最后一口气。

Early in the morning the cleaning woman came. In her sheer energy and haste she banged all the doors (in precisely the way people had already asked her to avoid), so much so that once she arrived a quiet sleep was no longer possible anywhere in the entire apartment. In her customarily brief visit to Gregor she at first found nothing special. She thought he lay so immobile there intending to play the offended party. She gave him credit for as complete an understanding as possible. Because she happened to hold the long broom in her hand, she tried to tickle Gregor with it from the door. When that was quite unsuccessful, she became irritated and poked Gregor a little, and only when she had shoved him from his place without any resistance did she become attentive. When she quickly realized the true state of affairs, her eyes grew large, she whistled to herself, but didn’t restrain herself for long. She pulled open the door of the bedroom and yelled in a loud voice into the darkness, ‘Come and look. It’s kicked the bucket. It’s lying there, totally snuffed!’
一大早，清洁工就来了。她以纯粹的精力和匆忙撞开了所有的门（正是人们已经要求她避免的方式），以致于她到达后，整个公寓的任何地方都不再可能安静地睡觉。在她惯常短暂拜访格雷戈尔的过程中，她一开始并没有发现什么特别的地方。她以为他一动不动地躺在那里，打算扮演被冒犯的角色。她相信他能尽可能全面地理解。因为她手中恰好握着长扫帚，所以她试图在门口用它去挠格雷戈尔。当这很不成功时，她变得很恼火，戳了戳格雷戈尔，直到她毫无抵抗地将他从座位上推开时，她才变得专心。当她很快意识到事情的真相后，她的眼睛睁得大大的，她对自己吹了一声口哨，但并没有克制太久。她拉开卧室的门，对着黑暗大声喊道：“快来看。”它已经破产了。它躺在那里，完全被窒息了！”

The Samsa married couple sat upright in their marriage bed and had to get over their fright at the cleaning woman before they managed to grasp her message. But then Mr. and Mrs. Samsa climbed very quickly out of bed, one on either side. Mr. Samsa threw the bedspread over his shoulders, Mrs. Samsa came out only in her night-shirt, and like this they stepped into Gregor’s room. Meanwhile the door of the living room (in which Grete had slept since the lodgers had arrived on the scene) had also opened. She was fully clothed, as if she had not slept at all; her white face also seem to indicate that. ‘Dead?’ said Mrs. Samsa and looked questioningly at the cleaning woman, although she could check everything on her own and even understand without a check. ‘I should say so,’ said the cleaning woman and, by way of proof, poked Gregor’s body with the broom a considerable distance more to the side. Mrs. Samsa made a movement as if she wished to restrain the broom, but didn’t do it. ‘Well,’ said Mr. Samsa, ‘now we can give thanks to God.’ He crossed himself, and the three women followed his example.
萨姆萨夫妇在婚床上笔直地坐着，必须先克服对清洁女工的恐惧，然后才能理解她的意思。但随后萨姆萨先生和萨姆萨夫人很快就从床上爬了起来，两边各一人。萨姆沙先生把床罩披在肩上，萨姆沙太太只穿着睡衣出来，就这样他们走进了格雷戈尔的房间。与此同时，客厅的门（房客到达现场后格蕾特就睡在客厅里）的门也打开了。她衣衫褴褛，就像根本没有睡过一样。她苍白的脸似乎也表明了这一点。 “死了？”萨姆莎夫人疑惑地看着清洁工，尽管她可以自己检查一切，甚至不用检查就能明白。 “我应该这么说，”清洁女工说，并用扫帚将格雷戈尔的身体向侧面戳了相当远的距离，作为证据。萨姆莎夫人做了一个动作，似乎想制住扫帚，但她没有这么做。 “好吧，”萨姆沙先生说，“现在我们可以感谢上帝了。”他在胸前画了十字，三个女人也效仿了他的做法。

Grete, who did not take her eyes off the corpse, said, ‘Look how thin he was. He had eaten nothing for such a long time. The meals which came in here came out again exactly the same.’ In fact, Gregor’s body was completely flat and dry. That was apparent really for the first time, now that he was no longer raised on his small limbs and, moreover, now that nothing else distracted one’s gaze.
格蕾特的目光始终没有离开尸体，说道：“你看他多瘦啊。”他已经很久没有吃过任何东西了。事实上，格雷戈尔的身体完全平坦干燥。这确实是第一次变得如此明显，因为他不再用他的小四肢举起，而且，现在没有任何其他东西可以分散人们的注意力。

‘Grete, come into us for a moment,’ said Mrs. Samsa with a melancholy smile, and Grete went, not without looking back at the corpse, behind her parents into the bed room. The cleaning woman shut the door and opened the window wide. In spite of the early morning, the fresh air was partly tinged with warmth. It was already the end of March.
“格蕾特，到我们这里来一会儿吧，”萨姆莎夫人忧郁地微笑着说道，格蕾特跟着父母走进了卧室，不时回头看了一眼尸体。清洁女工关上门，把窗户打开。尽管是清晨，新鲜的空气却带着一丝温暖。已经是三月底了。

The three lodgers stepped out of their room and looked around for their breakfast, astonished that they had been forgotten. ‘Where is the breakfast?’ asked the middle one of the gentlemen grumpily to the cleaning woman. However, she laid her finger to her lips and then quickly and silently indicated to the lodgers that they could come into Gregor’s room. So they came and stood around Gregor’s corpse, their hands in the pockets of their somewhat worn jackets, in the room, which was already quite bright.
三个房客走出房间，环顾四周寻找早餐，惊讶地发现自己被遗忘了。 “早餐在哪里？”中间的一位先生脾气暴躁地向清洁女工问道。然而，她把手指放在嘴唇上，然后快速而无声地向房客示意他们可以进入格雷戈尔的房间。于是他们来到房间里，站在格雷戈尔的尸体周围，双手插在有点破旧的夹克口袋里，房间里已经很亮了。

Then the door of the bed room opened, and Mr. Samsa appeared in his uniform, with his wife on one arm and his daughter on the other. All were a little tear stained. Now and then Grete pressed her face onto her father’s arm.
然后卧室的门打开了，萨姆萨先生穿着制服出现，一手挽着妻子，一手挽着女儿。所有人都有点泪痕。格蕾特时不时地将脸贴在父亲的手臂上。

‘Get out of my apartment immediately,’ said Mr. Samsa and pulled open the door, without letting go of the women. ‘What do you mean?’ said the middle lodger, somewhat dismayed and with a sugary smile. The two others kept their hands behind them and constantly rubbed them against each other, as if in joyful anticipation of a great squabble which must end up in their favour. ‘I mean exactly what I say,’ replied Mr. Samsa and went directly with his two female companions up to the lodger. The latter at first stood there motionless and looked at the floor, as if matters were arranging themselves in a new way in his head. ‘All right, then we’ll go,’ he said and looked up at Mr. Samsa as if, suddenly overcome by humility, he was asking fresh permission for this decision. Mr. Samsa merely nodded to him repeatedly with his eyes open wide.
“立即离开我的公寓，”萨姆沙先生说着拉开了门，没有放开那两个女人。 “你这是什么意思？”中间的房客有些沮丧地说，脸上带着甜蜜的微笑。另外两个人把手放在身后，不断地互相摩擦，仿佛在高兴地期待着一场大争吵，而这场争吵最终一定会以对他们有利的方式结束。 “我说的就是这个意思。”萨姆沙先生回答道，然后直接带着他的两个女伴走到了房客那里。后者起初一动不动地站在那里，看着地板，仿佛事情在他的脑海中以一种新的方式自行安排。 “好吧，那我们就走吧。”他说着抬头看着萨姆沙先生，仿佛他突然谦卑下来，正在为这个决定请求新的许可。萨姆沙先生只是睁大眼睛不断向他点点头。

Following that, the lodger actually went immediately with long strides into the hall. His two friends had already been listening for a while with their hands quite still, and now they hopped smartly after him, as if afraid that Mr. Samsa could step into the hall ahead of them and disturb their reunion with their leader. In the hall all three of them took their hats from the coat rack, pulled their canes from the cane holder, bowed silently, and left the apartment. In what turned out to be an entirely groundless mistrust, Mr. Samsa stepped with the two women out onto the landing, leaned against the railing, and looked down as the three lodgers slowly but steadily made their way down the long staircase, disappeared on each floor in a certain turn of the stairwell and in a few seconds came out again. The deeper they proceeded, the more the Samsa family lost interest in them, and when a butcher with a tray on his head come to meet them and then with a proud bearing ascended the stairs high above them, Mr. Samsa., together with the women, left the banister, and they all returned, as if relieved, back into their apartment.
紧接着，房客竟然立刻大步走进了大厅。他的两个朋友已经听了一会儿，他们的手一动不动，现在他们敏捷地跟在他后面，好像担心萨姆沙先生会在他们前面走进大厅，打扰他们与他们的领袖重聚。到了大厅，三人从衣帽架上取下帽子，从拐杖架上拔下手杖，默默地鞠了一躬，然后离开了公寓。萨姆萨先生带着这两个女人走到了平台上，靠在栏杆上，低头看着三个房客缓慢而稳定地走下长长的楼梯，消失在每一个楼梯上，结果证明这是一种完全毫无根据的不信任。地板在楼梯间的某个转弯处，几秒钟后又出来了。越往深处走，萨姆萨一家就越对他们失去兴趣，当一个头顶托盘的屠夫迎面而来，然后带着骄傲的姿态登上了他们上方高高的楼梯时，萨姆萨先生和女人们离开了栏杆，然后他们都像松了一口气一样回到了自己的公寓。

They decided to pass that day resting and going for a stroll. Not only had they earned this break from work, but there was no question that they really needed it. And so they sat down at the table and wrote three letters of apology: Mr. Samsa to his supervisor, Mrs. Samsa to her client, and Grete to her proprietor. During the writing the cleaning woman came in to say that she was going off, for her morning work was finished. The three people writing at first merely nodded, without glancing up. Only when the cleaning woman was still unwilling to depart, did they look up angrily. ‘Well?’ asked Mr. Samsa. The cleaning woman stood smiling in the doorway, as if she had a great stroke of luck to report to the family but would only do it if she was asked directly. The almost upright small ostrich feather in her hat, which had irritated Mr. Samsa during her entire service, swayed lightly in all directions. ‘All right then, what do you really want?’ asked Mrs. Samsa, whom the cleaning lady still usually respected. ‘Well,’ answered the cleaning woman (smiling so happily she couldn’t go on speaking right away), ‘about how that rubbish from the next room should be thrown out, you mustn’t worry about it. It’s all taken care of.’ Mrs. Samsa and Grete bent down to their letters, as though they wanted to go on writing; Mr. Samsa, who noticed that the cleaning woman wanted to start describing everything in detail, decisively prevented her with an outstretched hand. But since she was not allowed to explain, she remembered the great hurry she was in, and called out, clearly insulted, ‘Ta ta, everyone,’ turned around furiously and left the apartment with a fearful slamming of the door.
他们决定休息并散步来度过这一天。他们不仅赢得了这次工作休息时间，而且毫无疑问他们确实需要它。于是他们在桌边坐下来，写了三封道歉信：萨姆萨先生写给他的主管，萨姆萨夫人写给她的客户，格蕾特写给她的老板。在写作期间，清洁女工进来说她要走了，因为她早上的工作已经完成了。刚开始写字的三人只是点了点头，没有抬头。直到清洁女工还不肯离开的时候，他们才愤怒地抬起头来。 “怎么样？”萨姆沙先生问道。清洁工站在门口微笑着，仿佛她很幸运能向家人报告，但只有在有人直接要求的情况下才会这样做。她帽子上那根几乎直立的小鸵鸟羽毛在整个服役期间一直让萨姆沙先生很恼火，现在它向各个方向轻轻晃动。 “好吧，那你到底想要什么？”萨姆莎太太问道，这位清洁女工仍然很尊敬她。 “好吧，”清洁女工回答道（笑得高兴得说不下去了），“隔壁房间的垃圾该怎么扔，你不用担心。”一切都处理好了。”萨姆莎夫人和格蕾特弯下腰去写信，好像她们还想继续写下去。萨姆沙先生发现清洁女工想开始详细描述一切，果断伸出手阻止了她。但由于不允许她解释，她想起自己当时的匆忙，明显受到侮辱地喊道：“大家，大家，”然后愤怒地转身离开了公寓，可怕地关上门。

‘This evening she’ll be let go,’ said Mr. Samsa, but he got no answer from either his wife or from his daughter, because the cleaning woman seemed to have upset once again the tranquillity they had just attained. They got up, went to the window and remained there, with their arms about each other. Mr. Samsa turned around in his chair in their direction and observed them quietly for a while. Then he called out, ‘All right, come here then. Let’s finally get rid of old things. And have a little consideration for me.’ The women attended to him at once. They rushed to him, caressed him, and quickly ended their letters.
“今天晚上她就会被放走，”萨姆沙先生说，但他没有得到妻子和女儿的答复，因为清洁女工似乎再次打破了他们刚刚获得的平静。他们站起身来，走到窗前，挽着彼此的手臂，留在那里。萨姆沙先生在椅子上转过身来，朝着他们的方向，静静地观察了他们一会儿。然后他喊道：‘好吧，到这里来吧。让我们最终摆脱旧事物。也请为我考​​虑一下。” 女人们立即侍奉他。他们冲向他，爱抚他，然后很快就写完了信。

Then all three left the apartment together, something they had not done for months now, and took the electric tram into the open air outside the city. The car in which they were sitting by themselves was totally engulfed by the warm sun. They talked to each other, leaning back comfortably in their seats, about future prospects, and they discovered that on closer observation these were not at all bad, for all three had employment, about which they had not really questioned each other at all, which was extremely favorable and with especially promising prospects. The greatest improvement in their situation at this moment, of course, had to come from a change of dwelling. Now they wanted to rent an apartment smaller and cheaper but better situated and generally more practical than the present one, which Gregor had found. While they amused themselves in this way, it struck Mr. and Mrs. Samsa almost at the same moment how their daughter, who was getting more animated all the time, had blossomed recently, in spite of all the troubles which had made her cheeks pale, into a beautiful and voluptuous young woman. Growing more silent and almost unconsciously understanding each other in their glances, they thought that the time was now at hand to seek out a good honest man for her. And it was something of a confirmation of their new dreams and good intentions when at the end of their journey the daughter first lifted herself up and stretched her young body.
然后三人一起离开公寓，这是他们几个月来没有做过的事情，乘坐有轨电车来到城外的露天。他们两人所坐的车子，完全被温暖的阳光吞没了。他们舒舒服服地靠在座位上，互相谈论着未来的前景，仔细观察后，他们发现这些都还不错，因为三个人都有工作，对此他们根本没有真正询问过对方，这也说明了他们对未来的看法。非常有利，前景特别光明。此刻他们处境最大的改善，当然是来自于换了住处。现在他们想租一套更小、更便宜、但位置更好、通常比格雷戈尔找到的现在更实用的公寓。就在他们这样自娱自乐的时候，萨姆沙先生和萨姆萨夫人几乎同时想到，他们的女儿一直变得越来越活泼，最近却绽放出光芒，尽管所有的烦恼使她的脸颊变得苍白。 ，变成了一个美丽妖娆的少妇。他们变得更加沉默，几乎不自觉地在眼神中相互了解，他们认为现在是时候为她寻找一个诚实的好男人了。当他们的旅程结束时，女儿第一次站起来并伸展她年轻的身体，这在某种程度上证实了他们的新梦想和良好愿望。