
Vanity Fair
名利场

By William Makepeace Thackeray
威廉·梅克皮斯·萨克雷

Before the Curtain
幕布前

As the manager of the Performance sits before the curtain on the boards and looks into the Fair, a feeling of profound melancholy comes over him in his survey of the bustling place. There is a great quantity of eating and drinking, making love and jilting, laughing and the contrary, smoking, cheating, fighting, dancing and fiddling; there are bullies pushing about, bucks ogling the women, knaves picking pockets, policemen on the look-out, quacks (OTHER quacks, plague take them!) bawling in front of their booths, and yokels looking up at the tinselled dancers and poor old rouged tumblers, while the light-fingered folk are operating upon their pockets behind. Yes, this is VANITY FAIR; not a moral place certainly; nor a merry one, though very noisy. Look at the faces of the actors and buffoons when they come off from their business; and Tom Fool washing the paint off his cheeks before he sits down to dinner with his wife and the little Jack Puddings behind the canvas. The curtain will be up presently, and he will be turning over head and heels, and crying, ‘How are you?’
当演出经理坐在展板的幕布前，眺望博览会时，他看着这熙熙攘攘的地方，心中涌起一种深深的忧郁之情。有大量的饮食、做爱和抛弃、大笑和相反、吸烟、欺骗、打架、跳舞和拉小提琴；有恶霸在推搡，雄鹿在盯着女人看，流氓在扒窃，警察在监视，庸医（其他庸医，瘟疫带走他们！）在他们的摊位前大喊大叫，乡巴佬抬头看着金箔舞者和可怜的老人涂了胭脂的酒杯，而那些手指轻快的人则在背后掏口袋。是的，这就是《名利场》；当然不是一个道德场所；虽然很吵，但也不快乐。看看演员和小丑下班后的表情；汤姆·愚人在坐下来与妻子和画布后面的小杰克布丁共进晚餐之前，先洗掉脸颊上的油漆。幕布很快就会升起，他会翻来覆去地喊道：“你好吗？”

A man with a reflective turn of mind, walking through an exhibition of this sort, will not be oppressed, I take it, by his own or other people’s hilarity. An episode of humour or kindness touches and amuses him here and there—a pretty child looking at a gingerbread stall; a pretty girl blushing whilst her lover talks to her and chooses her fairing; poor Tom Fool, yonder behind the waggon, mumbling his bone with the honest family which lives by his tumbling; but the general impression is one more melancholy than mirthful. When you come home you sit down in a sober, contemplative, not uncharitable frame of mind, and apply yourself to your books or your business.
我认为，一个具有反思性思维的人，在参观这种展览时，不会因为自己或他人的欢闹而感到压抑。一段幽默或善意的片段时不时地触动他、逗他开心——一个漂亮的孩子看着姜饼摊；一个漂亮的孩子看着姜饼摊；一个漂亮的女孩脸红了，而她的爱人与她交谈并选择了她的整流罩；可怜的汤姆傻瓜，就在马车后面，和靠他翻滚而活的诚实的家人咕哝着他的骨头；但总的印象是忧郁多于欢乐。当你回到家时，你会以一种清醒、沉思、而不是无情的心态坐下来，全身心投入到你的书本或事业中。

I have no other moral than this to tag to the present story of ‘Vanity Fair.’ Some people consider Fairs immoral altogether, and eschew such, with their servants and families: very likely they are right. But persons who think otherwise, and are of a lazy, or a benevolent, or a sarcastic mood, may perhaps like to step in for half an hour, and look at the performances. There are scenes of all sorts; some dreadful combats, some grand and lofty horse-riding, some scenes of high life, and some of very middling indeed; some love-making for the sentimental, and some light comic business; the whole accompanied by appropriate scenery and brilliantly illuminated with the Author’s own candles.
除了这个之外，我没有其他道德可以标记《名利场》的当前故事。有些人认为博览会完全不道德，并与他们的仆人和家人一起避开这样的活动：很可能他们是对的。但那些不这么想的人，或者是有懒惰的，或者是仁慈的，或者是讽刺的心情的人，也许愿意介入半个小时，看看表演。各种场景都有；有些是可怕的战斗，有些是宏伟而崇高的骑马，有些是上流生活的场景，有些是非常平庸的；有些是为了感伤的做爱，有些是轻松的喜剧；整个画面都伴随着适当的风景，并被作者自己的蜡烛照亮。

What more has the Manager of the Performance to say?—To acknowledge the kindness with which it has been received in all the principal towns of England through which the Show has passed, and where it has been most favourably noticed by the respected conductors of the public Press, and by the Nobility and Gentry. He is proud to think that his Puppets have given satisfaction to the very best company in this empire. The famous little Becky Puppet has been pronounced to be uncommonly flexible in the joints, and lively on the wire; the Amelia Doll, though it has had a smaller circle of admirers, has yet been carved and dressed with the greatest care by the artist; the Dobbin Figure, though apparently clumsy, yet dances in a very amusing and natural manner; the Little Boys’ Dance has been liked by some; and please to remark the richly dressed figure of the Wicked Nobleman, on which no expense has been spared, and which Old Nick will fetch away at the end of this singular performance.
演出经理还有什么可说的呢？——感谢演出在英格兰所有主要城镇所受到的善意接待，以及受到受人尊敬的指挥家的热烈欢迎。公共媒体，以及贵族和绅士。他很自豪地认为他的偶人已经让这个帝国最好的公司感到满意。著名的小贝基木偶据说关节异常灵活，在电线上也很活泼。阿米莉亚娃娃虽然崇拜者范围较小，但仍经过艺术家精心雕刻和装饰；多宾的形象虽然看起来笨拙，但跳舞的方式非常有趣和自然；小男孩舞受到了一些人的喜爱；请注意邪恶贵族衣着华丽的人物，他不遗余力地塑造了他，而老尼克将在这场奇异的表演结束时将其带走。

And with this, and a profound bow to his patrons, the Manager retires, and the curtain rises.
就这样，经理向他的顾客深深鞠了一躬，然后退休了，帷幕升起。

LONDON, June 28, 1848
1848 年 6 月 28 日，伦敦

Chapter I
第一章


Chiswick Mall
奇西克购物中心

While the present century was in its teens, and on one sunshiny morning in June, there drove up to the great iron gate of Miss Pinkerton’s academy for young ladies, on Chiswick Mall, a large family coach, with two fat horses in blazing harness, driven by a fat coachman in a three-cornered hat and wig, at the rate of four miles an hour. A black servant, who reposed on the box beside the fat coachman, uncurled his bandy legs as soon as the equipage drew up opposite Miss Pinkerton’s shining brass plate, and as he pulled the bell at least a score of young heads were seen peering out of the narrow windows of the stately old brick house. Nay, the acute observer might have recognized the little red nose of good-natured Miss Jemima Pinkerton herself, rising over some geranium pots in the window of that lady’s own drawing-room.
当本世纪还处于十几岁的时候，六月一个阳光明媚的早晨，一辆大型家庭马车驶向奇西克购物中心平克顿小姐年轻女子学院的大门，一辆大型家庭马车上有两匹肥硕的马，套着炽热的挽具，由一个戴着三角帽、戴着假发的胖车夫驾驶，时速四英里。一个黑人仆人靠在胖车夫旁边的车厢上，当马车停在平克顿小姐闪亮的黄铜车牌对面时，他立即松开了罗圈腿，当他拉响铃时，至少可以看到二十个年轻的脑袋从车里探出头来。庄严的旧砖房的狭窄窗户不仅如此，敏锐的观察者可能会认出善良的杰迈玛·平克顿小姐本人的小红鼻子，她的小红鼻子正从这位女士自己客厅窗户上的一些天竺葵盆中升起。

‘It is Mrs. Sedley’s coach, sister,’ said Miss Jemima. ‘Sambo, the black servant, has just rung the bell; and the coachman has a new red waistcoat.’
“姐姐，这是塞德利夫人的教练。”杰迈玛小姐说道。 ‘黑仆人桑博刚刚按响了门铃；车夫有一件新的红色背心。

‘Have you completed all the necessary preparations incident to Miss Sedley’s departure, Miss Jemima?’ asked Miss Pinkerton herself, that majestic lady; the Semiramis of Hammersmith, the friend of Doctor Johnson, the correspondent of Mrs. Chapone herself.
“杰迈玛小姐，您已经完成了塞德利小姐离开时的所有必要准备了吗？”平克顿小姐本人问道，那位威严的女士；哈默史密斯的塞米勒米斯是约翰逊医生的朋友，也是查彭夫人本人的通讯员。

‘The girls were up at four this morning, packing her trunks, sister,’ replied Miss Jemima; ‘we have made her a bow-pot.’
“姐妹们，今天早上四点钟，女孩们就起床了，收拾行李，”杰迈玛小姐回答道。 “我们给她做了一个弓壶。”

‘Say a bouquet, sister Jemima, ‘tis more genteel.’
“说一束花吧，杰迈玛姐妹，这样更优雅。”

‘Well, a booky as big almost as a haystack; I have put up two bottles of the gillyflower water for Mrs. Sedley, and the receipt for making it, in Amelia’s box.’
“嗯，一本像干草堆那么大的书；我已经在阿米莉亚的盒子里放了两瓶给塞德利夫人的紫罗兰水和制作它的收据。

‘And I trust, Miss Jemima, you have made a copy of Miss Sedley’s account. This is it, is it? Very good—ninety-three pounds, four shillings. Be kind enough to address it to John Sedley, Esquire, and to seal this billet which I have written to his lady.’
“我相信，杰米玛小姐，你已经复制了塞德利小姐的账户。就是这个，是吗？非常好——九十三英镑四先令。请把它写给约翰·塞德利，先生，并密封我写给他的夫人的这篇文章。

In Miss Jemima’s eyes an autograph letter of her sister, Miss Pinkerton, was an object of as deep veneration as would have been a letter from a sovereign. Only when her pupils quitted the establishment, or when they were about to be married, and once, when poor Miss Birch died of the scarlet fever, was Miss Pinkerton known to write personally to the parents of her pupils; and it was Jemima’s opinion that if anything could console Mrs. Birch for her daughter’s loss, it would be that pious and eloquent composition in which Miss Pinkerton announced the event.
在杰米玛小姐眼中，她姐姐平克顿小姐的亲笔信就像一封来自君主的信一样受到深深的尊敬。只有当她的学生离开学校，或者他们即将结婚时，还有一次，当可怜的伯奇小姐死于猩红热时，平克顿小姐才会亲自写信给她学生的父母。杰米玛认为，如果有什么东西可以安慰伯奇夫人失去女儿的痛苦，那就是平克顿小姐宣布这一事件时虔诚而雄辩的文章。

In the present instance Miss Pinkerton’s ‘billet’ was to the following effect:—
在目前的情况下，平克顿小姐的“住所”的效果如下：

The Mall, Chiswick, June 15, 18
奇西克购物中心，2018 年 6 月 15 日

MADAM,—After her six years’ residence at the Mall, I have the honour and happiness of presenting Miss Amelia Sedley to her parents, as a young lady not unworthy to occupy a fitting position in their polished and refined circle. Those virtues which characterize the young English gentlewoman, those accomplishments which become her birth and station, will not be found wanting in the amiable Miss Sedley, whose INDUSTRY and OBEDIENCE have endeared her to her instructors, and whose delightful sweetness of temper has charmed her AGED and her YOUTHFUL companions.
女士，在商场住了六年之后，我很荣幸和幸福地将阿米莉亚·塞德利小姐介绍给她的父母，她是一位年轻的女士，在他们优雅而优雅的圈子里占据着合适的位置。那些年轻的英国淑女所特有的美德，那些与她的出身和地位有关的成就，在和蔼可亲的塞德利小姐身上是不会缺少的，她的勤奋和服从使她深受老师的喜爱，她令人愉快的甜蜜脾气让她上了年纪。和她年轻的同伴们。

In music, in dancing, in orthography, in every variety of embroidery and needlework, she will be found to have realized her friends’ fondest wishes. In geography there is still much to be desired; and a careful and undeviating use of the backboard, for four hours daily during the next three years, is recommended as necessary to the acquirement of that dignified DEPORTMENT AND CARRIAGE, so requisite for every young lady of FASHION.
在音乐、舞蹈、正字法、各种刺绣和针线活中，她都实现了朋友们最美好的愿望。地理方面还有很多不足之处。建议在接下来的三年里每天小心、不偏不倚地使用背板，这对于获得庄严的举止和举止是必要的，这对每个时尚年轻女士来说都是必需的。

In the principles of religion and morality, Miss Sedley will be found worthy of an establishment which has been honoured by the presence of THE GREAT LEXICOGRAPHER, and the patronage of the admirable Mrs. Chapone. In leaving the Mall, Miss Amelia carries with her the hearts of her companions, and the affectionate regards of her mistress, who has the honour to subscribe herself,
在宗教和道德原则方面，塞德利小姐将被认为值得建立一个因伟大词典编纂者的存在和令人钦佩的查波恩夫人的赞助而感到荣幸的机构。离开购物中心时，阿米莉亚小姐带着同伴们的心，以及她的女主人的深情问候，她有幸亲自签名，

Madam, Your most obliged humble servant, BARBARA PINKERTON
女士，您最感激的仆人，芭芭拉·平克顿

P.S.—Miss Sharp accompanies Miss Sedley. It is particularly requested that Miss Sharp’s stay in Russell Square may not exceed ten days. The family of distinction with whom she is engaged, desire to avail themselves of her services as soon as possible.
P.S.——夏普小姐陪伴塞德利小姐。特别要求夏普小姐在罗素广场的停留时间不得超过十天。与她订婚的显赫家庭希望尽快利用她的服务。

This letter completed, Miss Pinkerton proceeded to write her own name, and Miss Sedley’s, in the fly-leaf of a Johnson’s Dictionary— the interesting work which she invariably presented to her scholars, on their departure from the Mall. On the cover was inserted a copy of ‘Lines addressed to a young lady on quitting Miss Pinkerton’s school, at the Mall; by the late revered Doctor Samuel Johnson.’ In fact, the Lexicographer’s name was always on the lips of this majestic woman, and a visit he had paid to her was the cause of her reputation and her fortune.
这封信写完后，平克顿小姐开始在《约翰逊词典》的扉页上写下她自己和塞德利小姐的名字——这是她在学生们离开广场时总是向他们赠送的有趣的作品。封面上插入了一份“在购物中心写给一位年轻女士的台词，内容是关于从平克顿小姐的学校退学时写的；”事实上，这位词典编纂者的名字总是挂在这位威严的女人的嘴边，他对她的一次拜访为她带来了声誉和财富。

Being commanded by her elder sister to get ‘the Dictionary’ from the cupboard, Miss Jemima had extracted two copies of the book from the receptacle in question. When Miss Pinkerton had finished the inscription in the first, Jemima, with rather a dubious and timid air, handed her the second.
在姐姐的命令下，杰米玛小姐从柜子里取出《词典》，她从有问题的容器中取出了两本这本书。当平克顿小姐写完第一个碑文后，杰米玛带着相当怀疑和胆怯的神情，把第二个交给了她。

‘For whom is this, Miss Jemima?’ said Miss Pinkerton, with awful coldness.
“杰米玛小姐，这是谁的？”平克顿小姐语气极其冷漠。

‘For Becky Sharp,’ answered Jemima, trembling very much, and blushing over her withered face and neck, as she turned her back on her sister. ‘For Becky Sharp: she’s going too.’
“为了贝基·夏普，”杰迈玛背对着姐姐，浑身发抖，干瘪的脸和脖子都红了。 “贝基·夏普：她也会去。”

‘MISS JEMIMA!’ exclaimed Miss Pinkerton, in the largest capitals. ‘Are you in your senses? Replace the Dixonary in the closet, and never venture to take such a liberty in future.’
“杰米玛小姐！”平克顿小姐在最大的首都大声喊道。 ‘你还清醒吗？把 Dixonary 放回柜子里，以后再也不敢这么放肆了。

‘Well, sister, it’s only two-and-ninepence, and poor Becky will be miserable if she don’t get one.’
“好吧，姐姐，只有二便士，可怜的贝基如果得不到一便士，她会很痛苦的。”

‘Send Miss Sedley instantly to me,’ said Miss Pinkerton. And so venturing not to say another word, poor Jemima trotted off, exceedingly flurried and nervous.
“立即派塞德利小姐来找我，”平克顿小姐说。可怜的杰迈玛不敢再多说什么，小跑着走开了，心里非常慌乱和紧张。

Miss Sedley’s papa was a merchant in London, and a man of some wealth; whereas Miss Sharp was an articled pupil, for whom Miss Pinkerton had done, as she thought, quite enough, without conferring upon her at parting the high honour of the Dixonary.
塞德利小姐的爸爸是伦敦的一位商人，也是一位颇有钱财的人。而夏普小姐是一名有文章的学生，平克顿小姐为她所做的一切，正如她认为的那样，已经足够了，在离开时并没有授予她迪克森的崇高荣誉。

Although schoolmistresses’ letters are to be trusted no more nor less than churchyard epitaphs; yet, as it sometimes happens that a person departs this life who is really deserving of all the praises the stone cutter carves over his bones; who IS a good Christian, a good parent, child, wife, or husband; who actually DOES leave a disconsolate family to mourn his loss; so in academies of the male and female sex it occurs every now and then that the pupil is fully worthy of the praises bestowed by the disinterested instructor. Now, Miss Amelia Sedley was a young lady of this singular species; and deserved not only all that Miss Pinkerton said in her praise, but had many charming qualities which that pompous old Minerva of a woman could not see, from the differences of rank and age between her pupil and herself.
尽管女校长的信与墓地墓志铭一样可信；但然而，有时会发生这样的情况：一个人离开此生时，他确实值得石头切割者在他的骨头上雕刻的所有赞美；谁是好基督徒、好父母、好孩子、好妻子或好丈夫；谁真正留下了一个悲伤的家庭来哀悼他的损失？因此，在男女学院里，时常会出现这样的情况：学生完全值得无私的老师给予的赞扬。现在，阿米莉亚·塞德利小姐就是这个独特物种中的一位年轻女士。她不仅值得平克顿小姐所称赞的一切，而且还具有许多迷人的品质，这是那个自负的老密涅瓦女人从她的学生和她自己之间的等级和年龄差异中看不到的。

For she could not only sing like a lark, or a Mrs. Billington, and dance like Hillisberg or Parisot; and embroider beautifully; and spell as well as a Dixonary itself; but she had such a kindly, smiling, tender, gentle, generous heart of her own, as won the love of everybody who came near her, from Minerva herself down to the poor girl in the scullery, and the one-eyed tart-woman’s daughter, who was permitted to vend her wares once a week to the young ladies in the Mall. She had twelve intimate and bosom friends out of the twenty-four young ladies. Even envious Miss Briggs never spoke ill of her; high and mighty Miss Saltire (Lord Dexter’s granddaughter) allowed that her figure was genteel; and as for Miss Swartz, the rich woolly-haired mulatto from St. Kitt’s, on the day Amelia went away, she was in such a passion of tears that they were obliged to send for Dr. Floss, and half tipsify her with salvolatile. Miss Pinkerton’s attachment was, as may be supposed from the high position and eminent virtues of that lady, calm and dignified; but Miss Jemima had already whimpered several times at the idea of Amelia’s departure; and, but for fear of her sister, would have gone off in downright hysterics, like the heiress (who paid double) of St. Kitt’s. Such luxury of grief, however, is only allowed to parlour-boarders. Honest Jemima had all the bills, and the washing, and the mending, and the puddings, and the plate and crockery, and the servants to superintend. But why speak about her? It is probable that we shall not hear of her again from this moment to the end of time, and that when the great filigree iron gates are once closed on her, she and her awful sister will never issue therefrom into this little world of history.
因为她不仅能像百灵鸟或比灵顿夫人一样唱歌，也能像希利斯伯格或帕里索那样跳舞；并绣得漂亮；和咒语以及 Dixonary 本身一样；但她有一颗善良、微笑、温柔、温柔、慷慨的心，赢得了所有靠近她的人的爱，从密涅瓦本人到厨房里的可怜女孩，还有独眼妓女的心。女儿被允许每周一次向商场里的年轻女士推销她的商品。二十四位小姐中，她有十二位知音。即使是嫉妒的布里格斯小姐也从未说过她的坏话。高贵而强大的索尔泰尔小姐（德克斯特勋爵的孙女）承认她的身材很优雅。至于斯沃茨小姐，这位来自圣基茨的混血儿，头发蓬乱，在阿米莉亚离开的那天，她热泪盈眶，他们不得不派人去请弗洛斯医生，并给她灌了半醉。平克顿小姐的依恋，正如那位女士的崇高地位和卓越美德所推测的那样，是平静而端庄的。但杰米玛小姐一想到阿米莉亚要离开，就已经哭过好几次了。如果不是因为害怕她的妹妹，她就会像圣基茨的女继承人（付了双倍的钱）一样彻底歇斯底里。然而，只有客厅的寄宿生才能享受这种奢侈的悲伤。诚实的杰米玛负责所有的账单、洗衣、缝补、布丁、盘子和陶器，以及需要管理的仆人。但为什么要谈论她呢？很可能从这一刻到时间的尽头，我们都不会再听到她的消息了，而当巨大的金丝铁门一旦向她关闭时，她和她可怕的妹妹将永远不会从那里进入这个历史的小世界。

But as we are to see a great deal of Amelia, there is no harm in saying, at the outset of our acquaintance, that she was a dear little creature; and a great mercy it is, both in life and in novels, which (and the latter especially) abound in villains of the most sombre sort, that we are to have for a constant companion so guileless and good-natured a person. As she is not a heroine, there is no need to describe her person; indeed I am afraid that her nose was rather short than otherwise, and her cheeks a great deal too round and red for a heroine; but her face blushed with rosy health, and her lips with the freshest of smiles, and she had a pair of eyes which sparkled with the brightest and honestest good-humour, except indeed when they filled with tears, and that was a great deal too often; for the silly thing would cry over a dead canary-bird; or over a mouse, that the cat haply had seized upon; or over the end of a novel, were it ever so stupid; and as for saying an unkind word to her, were any persons hard-hearted enough to do so—why, so much the worse for them. Even Miss Pinkerton, that austere and godlike woman, ceased scolding her after the first time, and though she no more comprehended sensibility than she did Algebra, gave all masters and teachers particular orders to treat Miss Sedley with the utmost gentleness, as harsh treatment was injurious to her.
但是，由于我们会经常见到阿米莉亚，所以在我们刚认识的时候就说她是一个可爱的小动物，这并没有什么坏处。无论是在生活中还是在小说中（尤其是在小说中），最阴暗的恶棍比比皆是，我们能拥有这样一位天真无邪、心地善良的人作为忠实的伴侣，真是莫大的怜悯。由于她不是女主角，所以没有必要描述她的人；事实上，我担心她的鼻子比其他地方短，而且她的脸颊对于女英雄来说太圆太红了；但她的脸因红润的健康而红润，她的嘴唇带着最新鲜的微笑，她有一双眼睛，闪烁着最明亮、最诚实的幽默感，除了当它们充满泪水时，这也很重要经常;因为愚蠢的东西会为一只死去的金丝雀哭泣；或者是猫可能抓住了一只老鼠；或者在小说的结尾，是否有那么愚蠢？至于说对她说不客气的话，谁是铁石心肠的人会这样做——为什么，对他们来说更糟糕。就连平克顿小姐这个严肃而神圣的女人，在第一次之后也不再责骂她，尽管她对感性的理解并不比对代数的理解更多，但她还是特别命令所有的老师和老师要以最温柔的态度对待塞德利小姐，因为严厉的对待是对她造成伤害。

So that when the day of departure came, between her two customs of laughing and crying, Miss Sedley was greatly puzzled how to act. She was glad to go home, and yet most woefully sad at leaving school. For three days before, little Laura Martin, the orphan, followed her about like a little dog. She had to make and receive at least fourteen presents—to make fourteen solemn promises of writing every week: ‘Send my letters under cover to my grandpapa, the Earl of Dexter,’ said Miss Saltire (who, by the way, was rather shabby). ‘Never mind the postage, but write every day, you dear darling,’ said the impetuous and woolly-headed, but generous and affectionate Miss Swartz; and the orphan little Laura Martin (who was just in round-hand), took her friend’s hand and said, looking up in her face wistfully, ‘Amelia, when I write to you I shall call you Mamma.’ All which details, I have no doubt, JONES, who reads this book at his Club, will pronounce to be excessively foolish, trivial, twaddling, and ultra-sentimental. Yes; I can see Jones at this minute (rather flushed with his joint of mutton and half pint of wine), taking out his pencil and scoring under the words ‘foolish, twaddling,’ &c., and adding to them his own remark of ‘QUITE TRUE.’ Well, he is a lofty man of genius, and admires the great and heroic in life and novels; and so had better take warning and go elsewhere.
因此，当出发的那一天到来时，塞德利小姐在笑和哭的两种习惯之间，非常困惑如何行事。她很高兴回家，但最悲伤的是离开学校。三天前，孤儿小劳拉·马丁像一只小狗一样跟着她。她必须制作和接受至少十四件礼物——每周做出十四项庄严的承诺：“把我的信秘密寄给我的祖父，德克斯特伯爵，”萨尔泰尔小姐说（顺便说一下，她衣衫褴褛） ）。 “别介意邮资，每天都写信吧，你亲爱的，”性情急躁、头脑糊涂、但慷慨又深情的斯沃茨小姐说道。孤儿小劳拉·马丁（她的手是圆的）拉着她朋友的手，抬头望着她的脸，若有所思地说：“阿米莉亚，当我给你写信时，我会叫你妈妈。”所有这些细节，我都知道。毫无疑问，在他的俱乐部读这本书的琼斯会宣称自己过于愚蠢、琐碎、胡言乱语、过于感伤。是的;我现在可以看到琼斯（因为他的羊肉和半品脱酒而脸红了），拿出铅笔在“愚蠢，胡言乱语”等词下划线，并在上面添加了他自己的评论“相当”是的。”嗯，他是一位崇高的天才，钦佩生活和小说中的伟大英雄。所以最好还是先听听警告，然后去别处吧。

Well, then. The flowers, and the presents, and the trunks, and bonnet-boxes of Miss Sedley having been arranged by Mr. Sambo in the carriage, together with a very small and weather-beaten old cow’sskin trunk with Miss Sharp’s card neatly nailed upon it, which was delivered by Sambo with a grin, and packed by the coachman with a corresponding sneer—the hour for parting came; and the grief of that moment was considerably lessened by the admirable discourse which Miss Pinkerton addressed to her pupil. Not that the parting speech caused Amelia to philosophise, or that it armed her in any way with a calmness, the result of argument; but it was intolerably dull, pompous, and tedious; and having the fear of her schoolmistress greatly before her eyes, Miss Sedley did not venture, in her presence, to give way to any ebullitions of private grief. A seed-cake and a bottle of wine were produced in the drawing-room, as on the solemn occasions of the visits of parents, and these refreshments being partaken of, Miss Sedley was at liberty to depart.
好吧。塞德利小姐的鲜花、礼物、箱子和帽子盒都被桑博先生安排在了马车里，还有一个很小的、饱经风霜的旧牛皮箱子，夏普小姐的名片整齐地钉在上面。桑博微笑着送来，车夫也冷笑着打包——离别的时刻到了。平克顿小姐对她的学生发表的令人钦佩的讲话大大减轻了那一刻的悲伤。并不是说临别致辞让阿米莉亚陷入了哲学思考，也不是说这让她在任何方面都变得冷静，这是争论的结果。但这是令人难以忍受的沉闷、浮夸和乏味。塞德利小姐对女校长的恐惧就在眼前，她不敢在她面前流露出任何私人悲伤的情绪。客厅里准备了一块种子蛋糕和一瓶酒，就像在父母来访的庄严场合一样，塞德利小姐享用完这些茶点后可以自由离开。

‘You’ll go in and say good-by to Miss Pinkerton, Becky!’ said Miss Jemima to a young lady of whom nobody took any notice, and who was coming downstairs with her own bandbox.
“贝基，你进去向平克顿小姐道别吧！”杰迈玛小姐对一位年轻女士说道，她正拿着自己的乐队箱下楼，没有人注意到她。

‘I suppose I must,’ said Miss Sharp calmly, and much to the wonder of Miss Jemima; and the latter having knocked at the door, and receiving permission to come in, Miss Sharp advanced in a very unconcerned manner, and said in French, and with a perfect accent, ‘Mademoiselle, je viens vous faire mes adieux.’
“我想我必须这么做，”夏普小姐平静地说，这让杰迈玛小姐大为惊奇。后者敲了敲门，得到了进来的许可，夏普小姐满不在乎地走上前，用完美的口音用法语说道：“小姐，je viens vous faire mes adieux。”

Miss Pinkerton did not understand French; she only directed those who did: but biting her lips and throwing up her venerable and Roman-nosed head (on the top of which figured a large and solemn turban), she said, ‘Miss Sharp, I wish you a good morning.’ As the Hammersmith Semiramis spoke, she waved one hand, both by way of adieu, and to give Miss Sharp an opportunity of shaking one of the fingers of the hand which was left out for that purpose.
平克顿小姐不懂法语；她不懂法语。她只指挥那些这样做的人：但她咬着嘴唇，抬起她那令人尊敬的罗马鼻子头（头顶上戴着一个庄严的大头巾），说道：“夏普小姐，我祝你早上好。”当锤匠塞米勒米斯说话时，她挥了挥手，既是为了告别，也是为了让夏普小姐有机会摇动为此目的而留出的手的一根手指。

Miss Sharp only folded her own hands with a very frigid smile and bow, and quite declined to accept the proffered honour; on which Semiramis tossed up her turban more indignantly than ever. In fact, it was a little battle between the young lady and the old one, and the latter was worsted. ‘Heaven bless you, my child,’ said she, embracing Amelia, and scowling the while over the girl’s shoulder at Miss Sharp. ‘Come away, Becky,’ said Miss Jemima, pulling the young woman away in great alarm, and the drawing-room door closed upon them for ever.
夏普小姐只是双手合十，微笑着鞠躬，非常冷漠，拒绝接受这份荣誉。塞米拉米斯比以往任何时候都更愤怒地甩动她的头巾。事实上，这只是少妇和老太太之间的一场小战斗，最后还是后者落败了。 “愿上帝保佑你，我的孩子。”她一边说，一边拥抱阿米莉亚，同时越过阿米莉亚的肩膀，对夏普小姐皱起了眉头。 “走开，贝基。”杰迈玛小姐说着，惊慌失措地把年轻女子拉开，客厅的门就永远在他们面前关上了。

Then came the struggle and parting below. Words refuse to tell it. All the servants were there in the hall—all the dear friend—all the young ladies—the dancing-master who had just arrived; and there was such a scuffling, and hugging, and kissing, and crying, with the hysterical YOOPS of Miss Swartz, the parlour-boarder, from her room, as no pen can depict, and as the tender heart would fain pass over. The embracing was over; they parted—that is, Miss Sedley parted from her friends. Miss Sharp had demurely entered the carriage some minutes before. Nobody cried for leaving HER.
接下来就是下面的挣扎和离别。言语拒绝告诉它。所有的仆人都在大厅里——所有的亲爱的朋友——所有的年轻女士——刚刚到来的舞蹈老师；所有的人都在大厅里。客厅里的寄宿生斯沃茨小姐在她的房间里扭打、拥抱、亲吻、哭泣，还伴随着歇斯底里的叫喊声，这是任何笔都无法描绘的，也是温柔的心乐意掠过的。拥抱结束了；他们分手了——也就是说，塞德利小姐和她的朋友们分手了。夏普小姐几分钟前就端庄地走进了马车。没有人因为离开她而哭泣。

Sambo of the bandy legs slammed the carriage door on his young weeping mistress. He sprang up behind the carriage. ‘Stop!’ cried Miss Jemima, rushing to the gate with a parcel.
罗圈腿的桑博把马车门关在了他哭泣的年轻情妇身上。他从马车后面跳了起来。 “站住！”杰迈玛小姐喊道，手里拿着一个包裹冲向大门。

‘It’s some sandwiches, my dear,’ said she to Amelia. ‘You may be hungry, you know; and Becky, Becky Sharp, here’s a book for you that my sister—that is, I—Johnson’s Dixonary, you know; you mustn’t leave us without that. Good-by. Drive on, coachman. God bless you!’
“这是一些三明治，亲爱的，”她对阿米莉亚说。 “你知道，你可能饿了；贝基，贝基·夏普，这是一本给你的书，我姐姐——也就是我——约翰逊的迪克森尼利，你知道；你不能离开我们。有效期。继续前进吧，车夫。上帝祝福你！'

And the kind creature retreated into the garden, overcome with emotion.
这个善良的生物情绪激动地退到了花园里。

But, lo! and just as the coach drove off, Miss Sharp put her pale face out of the window and actually flung the book back into the garden.
但是，瞧！就在马车开走时，夏普小姐把苍白的脸伸出了窗外，实际上把书扔回了花园里。

This almost caused Jemima to faint with terror. ‘Well, I never’— said she—‘what an audacious’—Emotion prevented her from completing either sentence. The carriage rolled away; the great gates were closed; the bell rang for the dancing lesson. The world is before the two young ladies; and so, farewell to Chiswick Mall.
这几乎让杰迈玛吓得晕过去。 “好吧，我从来没有”——她说——“多么大胆啊”——情感阻止了她说完这两句话。马车开走了。大门关闭了；舞蹈课的铃声响起。世界就在两位小姐面前；就这样，告别了奇西克购物中心。

Chapter II
第二章


In Which Miss Sharp and Miss Sedley Prepare to Open the Campaign
夏普小姐和塞德利小姐准备开始竞选活动

When Miss Sharp had performed the heroical act mentioned in the last chapter, and had seen the Dixonary, flying over the pavement of the little garden, fall at length at the feet of the astonished Miss Jemima, the young lady’s countenance, which had before worn an almost livid look of hatred, assumed a smile that perhaps was scarcely more agreeable, and she sank back in the carriage in an easy frame of mind, saying—‘So much for the Dixonary; and, thank God, I’m out of Chiswick.’
当夏普小姐完成了上一章提到的英雄行为，看到迪克森纳利飞过小花园的人行道，最后落在惊讶的杰迈玛小姐脚下时，这位年轻女士的脸色之前就已经疲惫不堪了。她带着一种近乎铁青的仇恨表情，露出了一个也许并不更令人愉快的微笑，然后她心情轻松地坐回马车里，说道：“迪克森纳利就到此为止了。感谢上帝，我离开了奇西克。

Miss Sedley was almost as flurried at the act of defiance as Miss Jemima had been; for, consider, it was but one minute that she had left school, and the impressions of six years are not got over in that space of time. Nay, with some persons those awes and terrors of youth last for ever and ever. I know, for instance, an old gentleman of sixty-eight, who said to me one morning at breakfast, with a very agitated countenance, ‘I dreamed last night that I was flogged by Dr. Raine.’ Fancy had carried him back five-and-fifty years in the course of that evening. Dr. Raine and his rod were just as awful to him in his heart, then, at sixty-eight, as they had been at thirteen. If the Doctor, with a large birch, had appeared bodily to him, even at the age of threescore and eight, and had said in awful voice, ‘Boy, take down your pant—‘? Well, well, Miss Sedley was exceedingly alarmed at this act of insubordination.
塞德利小姐几乎和杰米玛小姐一样对这种反抗行为感到惊慌。因为，想一想，她离开学校才一分钟，六年的印象并没有在这段时间里消失。不仅如此，对于某些人来说，年轻时的敬畏和恐惧会永远持续下去。例如，我认识一位六十八岁的老绅士，一天早上吃早饭时，他一脸激动地对我说：“我昨晚梦见我被雷恩医生鞭打了。”幻想把他带回了五岁。 ——那天晚上已经过去五十年了。六十八岁的雷恩医生和他的魔杖对他来说就像十三岁时一样可怕。如果医生拿着一棵大桦树，以肉体的形式出现在他面前，即使他只有三十零八岁，并且用可怕的声音说：“男孩，脱掉你的裤子——”？好吧，好吧，塞德利小姐对这种不服从命令的行为感到非常震惊。

‘How could you do so, Rebecca?’ at last she said, after a pause.
“丽贝卡，你怎么能这么做？”停顿了一下，她终于说道。

‘Why, do you think Miss Pinkerton will come out and order me back to the black-hole?’ said Rebecca, laughing.
“为什么，你认为平克顿小姐会出来命令我回到黑洞吗？”丽贝卡笑着说。

‘No: but—‘
'不是，但-'

‘I hate the whole house,’ continued Miss Sharp in a fury. ‘I hope I may never set eyes on it again. I wish it were in the bottom of the Thames, I do; and if Miss Pinkerton were there, I wouldn’t pick her out, that I wouldn’t. O how I should like to see her floating in the water yonder, turban and all, with her train streaming after her, and her nose like the beak of a wherry.’
“我讨厌整个房子，”夏普小姐愤怒地继续说道。 “我希望我永远不会再看到它。我希望它在泰晤士河的底部，我确实如此；如果平克顿小姐在那儿，我不会把她挑出来，我不会。哦，我多么希望看到她戴着头巾，漂浮在那边的水中，她的裙裾跟在她后面，她的鼻子像惠船的喙一样。

‘Hush!’ cried Miss Sedley.
“嘘！”塞德利小姐喊道。

‘Why, will the black footman tell tales?’ cried Miss Rebecca, laughing. ‘He may go back and tell Miss Pinkerton that I hate her with all my soul; and I wish he would; and I wish I had a means of proving it, too. For two years I have only had insults and outrage from her. I have been treated worse than any servant in the kitchen. I have never had a friend or a kind word, except from you. I have been made to tend the little girls in the lower schoolroom, and to talk French to the Misses, until I grew sick of my mother tongue. But that talking French to Miss Pinkerton was capital fun, wasn’t it? She doesn’t know a word of French, and was too proud to confess it. I believe it was that which made her part with me; and so thank Heaven for French. Vive la France! Vive l’Empereur! Vive Bonaparte!’
“哎呀，黑人仆人会讲故事吗？”丽贝卡小姐笑着喊道。 “他可能会回去告诉平克顿小姐，我全心全意地恨她；我希望他会这么做；我也希望我有办法证明这一点。两年来我只受到过她的侮辱和愤怒。我所受到的待遇比厨房里任何仆人都糟糕。除了你，我从未有过朋友或善意的话语。我被迫照顾低年级的小女孩，和小姐们说法语，直到我厌倦了母语。但是和平克顿小姐说法语真是太有趣了，不是吗？她一句法语都不懂，而且她太骄傲了，不敢承认这一点。我相信这就是她与我分开的原因；感谢上帝赐予法语。法国万岁！皇帝万岁！波拿巴万岁！

‘O Rebecca, Rebecca, for shame!’ cried Miss Sedley; for this was the greatest blasphemy Rebecca had as yet uttered; and in those days, in England, to say, ‘Long live Bonaparte!’ was as much as to say, ‘Long live Lucifer!’ ‘How can you—how dare you have such wicked, revengeful thoughts?’
“噢，丽贝卡，丽贝卡，真丢脸！”塞德利小姐喊道。因为这是丽贝卡迄今为止所说的最大的亵渎。在那些日子里，在英国，说“波拿巴万岁！”就等于说“路西法万岁！”“你怎么能——你怎么敢有如此邪恶的、复仇的想法？”

‘Revenge may be wicked, but it’s natural,’ answered Miss Rebecca. ‘I’m no angel.’ And, to say the truth, she certainly was not.
“报复也许是邪恶的，但这是自然的，”丽贝卡小姐回答。 “我不是天使。”而且，说实话，她当然不是。

For it may be remarked in the course of this little conversation (which took place as the coach rolled along lazily by the river side) that though Miss Rebecca Sharp has twice had occasion to thank Heaven, it has been, in the first place, for ridding her of some person whom she hated, and secondly, for enabling her to bring her enemies to some sort of perplexity or confusion; neither of which are very amiable motives for religious gratitude, or such as would be put forward by persons of a kind and placable disposition. Miss Rebecca was not, then, in the least kind or placable. All the world used her ill, said this young misanthropist, and we may be pretty certain that persons whom all the world treats ill, deserve entirely the treatment they get. The world is a looking-glass, and gives back to every man the reflection of his own face. Frown at it, and it will in turn look sourly upon you; laugh at it and with it, and it is a jolly kind companion; and so let all young persons take their choice. This is certain, that if the world neglected Miss Sharp, she never was known to have done a good action in behalf of anybody; nor can it be expected that twenty-four young ladies should all be as amiable as the heroine of this work, Miss Sedley (whom we have selected for the very reason that she was the best-natured of all, otherwise what on earth was to have prevented us from putting up Miss Swartz, or Miss Crump, or Miss Hopkins, as heroine in her place!) it could not be expected that every one should be of the humble and gentle temper of Miss Amelia Sedley; should take every opportunity to vanquish Rebecca’s hard-heartedness and ill-humour; and, by a thousand kind words and offices, overcome, for once at least, her hostility to her kind.
因为在这段简短的谈话中（当马车在河边懒洋洋地滚动时发生），人们可能会注意到，尽管丽贝卡·夏普小姐两次有机会感谢上天，但首先，其次，让她摆脱她所憎恨的某个人，其次，让她能够让她的敌人陷入某种困惑或混乱；这两者都不是出于宗教感恩的非常友善的动机，也不是善良而温和的人会提出的动机。那么，丽贝卡小姐一点也不友善，也不友善。这位年轻的厌世者说，全世界都在虐待她，而且我们可以非常肯定，全世界都虐待过的人完全应该得到他们所得到的待遇。世界是一面镜子，每个人都能看到自己面孔的倒影。对它皱眉，它就会用不悦的眼光看你；嘲笑它，和它一起笑，它就是一个快乐而友善的伙伴；因此，让所有年轻人做出自己的选择。可以肯定的是，如果全世界都忽视了夏普小姐，那么她就永远不会为任何人做过善事。也不能指望二十四位小姐都会像这部作品的女主人公塞德利小姐那样和蔼可亲（我们之所以选择她，就是因为她是所有人中脾气最好的一个，否则到底怎么办？阻止我们把斯沃茨小姐、克伦普小姐或霍普金斯小姐选为女主角来代替她！） 不能指望每个人都具有阿米莉亚·塞德利小姐那样谦虚而温柔的脾气；应该利用一切机会克服丽贝卡的冷酷无情和坏脾气；并且，通过一千个善意的话语和办公室，至少这一次克服她对她的同类的敌意。

Miss Sharp’s father was an artist, and in that quality had given lessons of drawing at Miss Pinkerton’s school. He was a clever man; a pleasant companion; a careless student; with a great propensity for running into debt, and a partiality for the tavern. When he was drunk, he used to beat his wife and daughter; and the next morning, with a headache, he would rail at the world for its neglect of his genius, and abuse, with a good deal of cleverness, and sometimes with perfect reason, the fools, his brother painters. As it was with the utmost difficulty that he could keep himself, and as he owed money for a mile round Soho, where he lived, he thought to better his circumstances by marrying a young woman of the French nation, who was by profession an opera-girl. The humble calling of her female parent Miss Sharp never alluded to, but used to state subsequently that the Entrechats were a noble family of Gascony, and took great pride in her descent from them. And curious it is that as she advanced in life this young lady’s ancestors increased in rank and splendour.
夏普小姐的父亲是一位艺术家，因此在平克顿小姐的学校里教授过绘画课程。他是一个聪明人；一个令人愉快的伴侣；粗心的学生；很容易欠债，而且偏爱酒馆。当他喝醉的时候，他经常殴打他的妻子和女儿；第二天早上，他会头疼地抱怨这个世界忽视了他的天才，并以大量的聪明才智，有时甚至以完美的理由，辱骂他的画家兄弟们的傻瓜。由于他很难维持自己的生活，而且他还欠着他所居住的苏荷区一英里的钱，因此他想通过娶一位法国年轻女子为妻来改善自己的处境，她的职业是一名歌剧演员。 -女孩。夏普小姐从未提及过她的母亲的卑微身份，但后来常常声明，恩特雷夏家族是加斯科涅的一个贵族家族，并为她的血统感到非常自豪。令人好奇的是，随着这位年轻女士生活的进步，她的祖先的地位和荣耀也随之增加。

Rebecca’s mother had had some education somewhere, and her daughter spoke French with purity and a Parisian accent. It was in those days rather a rare accomplishment, and led to her engagement with the orthodox Miss Pinkerton. For her mother being dead, her father, finding himself not likely to recover, after his third attack of delirium tremens, wrote a manly and pathetic letter to Miss Pinkerton, recommending the orphan child to her protection, and so descended to the grave, after two bailiffs had quarrelled over his corpse. Rebecca was seventeen when she came to Chiswick, and was bound over as an articled pupil; her duties being to talk French, as we have seen; and her privileges to live cost free, and, with a few guineas a year, to gather scraps of knowledge from the professors who attended the school.
丽贝卡的母亲在某个地方受过一些教育，她的女儿说着纯正的法语，带有巴黎口音。这在当时是一项相当罕见的成就，并导致她与正统的平克顿小姐订婚。由于她的母亲已经去世，她的父亲在第三次震颤性谵妄发作后，发现自己不太可能康复，于是给平克顿小姐写了一封充满男子气概的可怜信，建议她保护这个孤儿，然后就下到了坟墓里。两名法警因他的尸体发生争吵。丽贝卡来到奇西克时十七岁，是一名有条件的学生。正如我们所见，她的职责是说法语；她享有免费生活的特权，每年只需花几个几尼，就可以从就读学校的教授那里收集零碎的知识。

She was small and slight in person; pale, sandy-haired, and with eyes habitually cast down: when they looked up they were very large, odd, and attractive; so attractive that the Reverend Mr. Crisp, fresh from Oxford, and curate to the Vicar of Chiswick, the Reverend Mr. Flowerdew, fell in love with Miss Sharp; being shot dead by a glance of her eyes which was fired all the way across Chiswick Church from the school-pew to the reading-desk. This infatuated young man used sometimes to take tea with Miss Pinkerton, to whom he had been presented by his mamma, and actually proposed something like marriage in an intercepted note, which the one-eyed apple-woman was charged to deliver. Mrs. Crisp was summoned from Buxton, and abruptly carried off her darling boy; but the idea, even, of such an eagle in the Chiswick dovecot caused a great flutter in the breast of Miss Pinkerton, who would have sent away Miss Sharp but that she was bound to her under a forfeit, and who never could thoroughly believe the young lady’s protestations that she had never exchanged a single word with Mr. Crisp, except under her own eyes on the two occasions when she had met him at tea.
她身材娇小，身材瘦弱。苍白，沙色头发，眼睛习惯性地向下垂：当他们抬起头来时，他们显得非常大，奇怪，而且有吸引力。夏普小姐是如此迷人，以至于刚从牛津大学毕业、担任奇西克牧师牧师花露先生的牧师克里斯普先生爱上了夏普小姐。她的目光扫过奇西克教堂，从学校的长椅一直到阅览桌，都被她的目光射死了。这个痴情的年轻人有时会和平克顿小姐一起喝茶，他是由他的妈妈介绍给平克顿小姐的，他实际上在一张截获的纸条上提出了类似结婚的提议，而独眼苹果女人则负责递送这张纸条。克里斯普夫人从巴克斯顿被叫来，突然带走了她心爱的儿子。但是，即使是奇西克鸽舍里有这样一只鹰的想法，也引起了平克顿小姐的胸中的剧烈颤动，她本想送走夏普小姐，但她在放弃的情况下与她绑定在一起，她永远无法完全相信年轻女士坚称，除了两次在茶会上亲眼见到克里斯普先生之外，她从未与克里斯普先生说过一句话。

By the side of many tall and bouncing young ladies in the establishment, Rebecca Sharp looked like a child. But she had the dismal precocity of poverty. Many a dun had she talked to, and turned away from her father’s door; many a tradesman had she coaxed and wheedled into good-humour, and into the granting of one meal more. She sate commonly with her father, who was very proud of her wit, and heard the talk of many of his wild companions—often but ill-suited for a girl to hear. But she never had been a girl, she said; she had been a woman since she was eight years old. Oh, why did Miss Pinkerton let such a dangerous bird into her cage?
在酒店里众多高挑活泼的年轻女士身边，丽贝卡·夏普看起来就像个孩子。但她却因贫穷而早熟。她曾与许多乞丐交谈过，也曾从她父亲的门前转身离开。许多商人在她的哄骗下变得幽默起来，并多给了一顿饭。她经常和她的父亲坐在一起，父亲对她的机智感到非常自豪，并听到他的许多狂野同伴的谈话——这些谈话通常不适合女孩听。但她说，她从来就不是一个女孩；她从来都不是个女孩。她从八岁起就已经是个女人了。哦，平克顿小姐为什么要把这么危险的鸟放进她的笼子里？

The fact is, the old lady believed Rebecca to be the meekest creature in the world, so admirably, on the occasions when her father brought her to Chiswick, used Rebecca to perform the part of the ingenue; and only a year before the arrangement by which Rebecca had been admitted into her house, and when Rebecca was sixteen years old, Miss Pinkerton majestically, and with a little speech, made her a present of a doll—which was, by the way, the confiscated property of Miss Swindle, discovered surreptitiously nursing it in schoolhours. How the father and daughter laughed as they trudged home together after the evening party (it was on the occasion of the speeches, when all the professors were invited) and how Miss Pinkerton would have raged had she seen the caricature of herself which the little mimic, Rebecca, managed to make out of her doll. Becky used to go through dialogues with it; it formed the delight of Newman Street, Gerrard Street, and the Artists’ quarter: and the young painters, when they came to take their gin-and-water with their lazy, dissolute, clever, jovial senior, used regularly to ask Rebecca if Miss Pinkerton was at home: she was as well known to them, poor soul! as Mr. Lawrence or President West. Once Rebecca had the honour to pass a few days at Chiswick; after which she brought back Jemima, and erected another doll as Miss Jemmy: for though that honest creature had made and given her jelly and cake enough for three children, and a seven-shilling piece at parting, the girl’s sense of ridicule was far stronger than her gratitude, and she sacrificed Miss Jemmy quite as pitilessly as her sister.
事实上，老太太认为丽贝卡是世界上最温顺的人，令人钦佩的是，当她父亲带她去奇西克时，让丽贝卡扮演天真的角色；就在丽贝卡被接纳进入她家的前一年，当丽贝卡十六岁的时候，平克顿小姐威严地，说了几句话，送给她一个洋娃娃作为礼物——顺便说一句，斯温德尔小姐被没收的财产被发现在上课时间偷偷地护理它。父亲和女儿在晚会结束后一起拖着沉重的脚步回家时是如何大笑的（当时正值演讲之际，所有的教授都被邀请了），如果平克顿小姐看到那个小小模仿者所模仿的自己的漫画，她会多么愤怒。丽贝卡成功地制作了她的洋娃娃。贝基曾经与它进行对话；它形成了纽曼街、杰拉德街和艺术家区的欢乐：年轻的画家们来和懒惰、放荡、聪明、快活的前辈一起喝杜松子酒时，经常问丽贝卡是否平克顿小姐在家：他们对她也很熟悉，可怜的灵魂！作为劳伦斯先生或韦斯特总统。有一次，丽贝卡有幸在奇西克度过了几天。之后，她带回了杰米玛，又立了一个娃娃作为杰米小姐：因为尽管那个诚实的人为她制作了足够三个孩子吃的果冻和蛋糕，并在临别时给了她七先令，但女孩的嘲笑感却要强烈得多。她的感激之情远远超过了她的感激之情，她像她姐姐一样无情地牺牲了杰米小姐。

The catastrophe came, and she was brought to the Mall as to her home. The rigid formality of the place suffocated her: the prayers and the meals, the lessons and the walks, which were arranged with a conventual regularity, oppressed her almost beyond endurance; and she looked back to the freedom and the beggary of the old studio in Soho with so much regret, that everybody, herself included, fancied she was consumed with grief for her father. She had a little room in the garret, where the maids heard her walking and sobbing at night; but it was with rage, and not with grief. She had not been much of a dissembler, until now her loneliness taught her to feign. She had never mingled in the society of women: her father, reprobate as he was, was a man of talent; his conversation was a thousand times more agreeable to her than the talk of such of her own sex as she now encountered. The pompous vanity of the old schoolmistress, the foolish good-humour of her sister, the silly chat and scandal of the elder girls, and the frigid correctness of the governesses equally annoyed her; and she had no soft maternal heart, this unlucky girl, otherwise the prattle and talk of the younger children, with whose care she was chiefly intrusted, might have soothed and interested her; but she lived among them two years, and not one was sorry that she went away. The gentle tender-hearted Amelia Sedley was the only person to whom she could attach herself in the least; and who could help attaching herself to Amelia?
灾难来了，她被带到了商场，就像回到了家一样。这个地方僵化的形式让她感到窒息：祈祷、吃饭、上课和散步，这些都是按惯例安排的，压得她几乎无法忍受。她回想起苏荷区旧工作室的自由和乞讨，感到非常遗憾，以至于每个人，包括她自己，都认为她为父亲感到悲伤。她在阁楼上有一个小房间，女仆们晚上可以听到她走路和抽泣的声音。但那是愤怒，而不是悲伤。她本来就不善于伪装，直到现在她的孤独才教会了她伪装。她从来没有融入过女人的社会：她的父亲虽然是个恶棍，但却是一个有才华的人；对她来说，他的谈话比她现在遇到的同性的谈话要愉快一千倍。老女校长的浮夸虚荣，她妹妹愚蠢的好脾气，大姑娘们的愚蠢闲聊和丑闻，以及家庭女教师的冷酷正确，同样让她恼火。这个不幸的女孩，没有温柔的母性之心，否则主要由她照顾的年幼的孩子们的喋喋不休和谈话可能会让她感到安慰和感兴趣。但她在他们中间生活了两年，没有人为她的离开感到遗憾。温柔、心地善良的阿米莉亚·塞德利是她唯一可以依恋的人。谁能不让自己依恋阿米莉亚呢？

The happiness the superior advantages of the young women round about her, gave Rebecca inexpressible pangs of envy. ‘What airs that girl gives herself, because she is an Earl’s grand-daughter,’ she said of one. ‘How they cringe and bow to that Creole, because of her hundred thousand pounds! I am a thousand times cleverer and more charming than that creature, for all her wealth. I am as well bred as the Earl’s grand-daughter, for all her fine pedigree; and yet every one passes me by here. And yet, when I was at my father’s, did not the men give up their gayest balls and parties in order to pass the evening with me?’ She determined at any rate to get free from the prison in which she found herself, and now began to act for herself, and for the first time to make connected plans for the future.
丽贝卡周围的年轻女子的优越优点让她感到幸福，这让丽贝卡产生了难以言喻的嫉妒之痛。 “那个女孩给自己带来了什么样的架子，因为她是伯爵的孙女，”她谈到其中一个人时说道。 ‘他们多么畏缩并向那个克里奥尔人鞠躬，因为她有十万英镑！尽管她很富有，但我比那个生物聪明一千倍，更有魅力一千倍。我和伯爵的孙女一样有良好的教养，尽管她有着优良的血统。然而每个人都从我这里经过。然而，当我在父亲家的时候，男人们不是放弃了他们最欢乐的舞会和聚会，以便与我共度夜晚吗？”无论如何，她决定从她发现自己所在的监狱中解脱出来，现在开始为自己行动，第一次为未来制定连贯的计划。

She took advantage, therefore, of the means of study the place offered her; and as she was already a musician and a good linguist, she speedily went through the little course of study which was considered necessary for ladies in those days. Her music she practised incessantly, and one day, when the girls were out, and she had remained at home, she was overheard to play a piece so well that Minerva thought, wisely, she could spare herself the expense of a master for the juniors, and intimated to Miss Sharp that she was to instruct them in music for the future.
因此，她利用了这个地方为她提供的学习手段。由于她已经是一位音乐家和一位优秀的语言学家，她很快就完成了当时被认为是女士们必需的小课程。她不断地练习她的音乐，有一天，当女孩们外出时，她留在家里，有人无意中听到她演奏一首曲子，演奏得非常好，米勒娃明智地认为，她可以节省自己为青少年请一位大师的费用。 ，并向夏普小姐暗示她将在未来指导他们音乐。

The girl refused; and for the first time, and to the astonishment of the majestic mistress of the school. ‘I am here to speak French with the children,’ Rebecca said abruptly, ‘not to teach them music, and save money for you. Give me money, and I will teach them.’
女孩拒绝了；这是第一次，令学校那位威严的女校长感到惊讶。 “我来这里是为了和孩子们说法语，”丽贝卡突然说道，“不是为了教他们音乐，是为了给你们省钱。”给我钱，我就教他们。”

Minerva was obliged to yield, and, of course, disliked her from that day. ‘For five-and-thirty years,’ she said, and with great justice, ‘I never have seen the individual who has dared in my own house to question my authority. I have nourished a viper in my bosom.’
米勒娃不得不屈服，当然，从那天起，她就不喜欢她了。 “五年又三十年了，”她满怀正义地说，“我从未见过有人敢在我家里质疑我的权威。”我怀里养了一条毒蛇。

‘A viper—a fiddlestick,’ said Miss Sharp to the old lady, almost fainting with astonishment. ‘You took me because I was useful. There is no question of gratitude between us. I hate this place, and want to leave it. I will do nothing here but what I am obliged to do.’
“一条毒蛇——一条小提琴，”夏普小姐对老太太说，她几乎惊讶得晕了过去。 ‘你带走我是因为我有用。我们之间不存在感恩的问题。我讨厌这个地方，想离开它。除了我必须做的事之外，我不会在这里做任何事。

It was in vain that the old lady asked her if she was aware she was speaking to Miss Pinkerton? Rebecca laughed in her face, with a horrid sarcastic demoniacal laughter, that almost sent the schoolmistress into fits. ‘Give me a sum of money,’ said the girl, ‘and get rid of me—or, if you like better, get me a good place as governess in a nobleman’s family—you can do so if you please.’ And in their further disputes she always returned to this point, ‘Get me a situation—we hate each other, and I am ready to go.’
老太太问她是否知道自己正在和平克顿小姐说话，但徒劳无功。丽贝卡当着她的面大笑，带着可怕的、讽刺的恶魔般的笑声，差点让女校长发疯。 “给我一笔钱，”女孩说，“然后摆脱我——或者，如果你更喜欢的话，可以让我在贵族家庭中担任家庭教师——如果你愿意的话，你可以这么做。”当他们进一步发生争执时，她总是回到这一点，“给我一个情况——我们彼此憎恨，我准备离开。”

Worthy Miss Pinkerton, although she had a Roman nose and a turban, and was as tall as a grenadier, and had been up to this time an irresistible princess, had no will or strength like that of her little apprentice, and in vain did battle against her, and tried to overawe her. Attempting once to scold her in public, Rebecca hit upon the before-mentioned plan of answering her in French, which quite routed the old woman. In order to maintain authority in her school, it became necessary to remove this rebel, this monster, this serpent, this firebrand; and hearing about this time that Sir Pitt Crawley’s family was in want of a governess, she actually recommended Miss Sharp for the situation, firebrand and serpent as she was. ‘I cannot, certainly,’ she said, ‘find fault with Miss Sharp’s conduct, except to myself; and must allow that her talents and accomplishments are of a high order. As far as the head goes, at least, she does credit to the educational system pursued at my establishment.’
不愧是平克顿小姐，虽然长着罗马式的鼻子，戴着头巾，身高如掷弹兵，一直以来都是一位不可抗拒的公主，却没有她的小学徒那样的意志和力量，徒劳地战斗反对她，并试图威慑她。有一次，丽贝卡想当众责骂她，却想出了前面提到的用法语回答她的办法，这让老妇人大吃一惊。为了维护她在学校的权威，有必要除掉这个叛逆者、这个怪物、这个蛇、这个煽动者；这次听说皮特·克劳利爵士的家人需要一位家庭教师，她实际上推荐了夏普小姐，因为她是个煽动者和蛇。 “当然，”她说，“我不能对夏普小姐的行为挑剔，除了我自己；并且必须承认她的才能和成就是很高的。至少就头脑而言，她对我所在机构所奉行的教育体系做出了贡献。

And so the schoolmistress reconciled the recommendation to her conscience, and the indentures were cancelled, and the apprentice was free. The battle here described in a few lines, of course, lasted for some months. And as Miss Sedley, being now in her seventeenth year, was about to leave school, and had a friendship for Miss Sharp (‘‘tis the only point in Amelia’s behaviour,’ said Minerva, ‘which has not been satisfactory to her mistress’), Miss Sharp was invited by her friend to pass a week with her at home, before she entered upon her duties as governess in a private family.
于是女校长就良心接受了这个建议，契约被取消了，学徒也获得了自由。这里几行描述的战斗，当然持续了好几个月。塞德利小姐现在已经十七岁了，即将离开学校，并与夏普小姐建立了友谊（“这是阿米莉亚行为中唯一的一点，”米勒娃说，“这让她的女主人不满意”） ），夏普小姐受朋友邀请，在她开始在私人家庭担任家庭教师之前，在家里陪她度过一周。

Thus the world began for these two young ladies. For Amelia it was quite a new, fresh, brilliant world, with all the bloom upon it. It was not quite a new one for Rebecca—(indeed, if the truth must be told with respect to the Crisp affair, the tart-woman hinted to somebody, who took an affidavit of the fact to somebody else, that there was a great deal more than was made public regarding Mr. Crisp and Miss Sharp, and that his letter was in answer to another letter). But who can tell you the real truth of the matter? At all events, if Rebecca was not beginning the world, she was beginning it over again.
这两位年轻女士的世界就这样开始了。对于阿米莉亚来说，这是一个全新的、新鲜的、辉煌的世界，上面鲜花盛开。对于丽贝卡来说，这并不是什么新鲜事——（事实上，如果必须说起克里斯普事件的真相的话，那个尖酸刻薄的女人向某人暗示，这个人向其他人提供了一份关于这一事实的宣誓书，有一个伟大的事件。交易的内容比公开的有关克里斯普先生和夏普小姐的交易要多，而且他的信是对另一封信的答复）。但谁能告诉你事情的真相呢？无论如何，如果丽贝卡没有开始这个世界，她就是在重新开始它。

By the time the young ladies reached Kensington turnpike, Amelia had not forgotten her companions, but had dried her tears, and had blushed very much and been delighted at a young officer of the Life Guards, who spied her as he was riding by, and said, ‘A dem fine gal, egad!’ and before the carriage arrived in Russell Square, a great deal of conversation had taken place about the Drawing-room, and whether or not young ladies wore powder as well as hoops when presented, and whether she was to have that honour: to the Lord Mayor’s ball she knew she was to go. And when at length home was reached, Miss Amelia Sedley skipped out on Sambo’s arm, as happy and as handsome a girl as any in the whole big city of London. Both he and coachman agreed on this point, and so did her father and mother, and so did every one of the servants in the house, as they stood bobbing, and curtseying, and smiling, in the hall to welcome their young mistress.
当年轻的女士们到达肯辛顿收费公路时，阿米莉亚并没有忘记她的同伴，而是擦干了眼泪，脸红得很厉害，对一位年轻的救生员军官感到很高兴，他在骑马经过时发现了她，然后说：“一个漂亮的女孩，真好！”在马车到达罗素广场之前，人们就客厅进行了大量的讨论，讨论年轻女士们在亮相时是否会像戴发箍一样涂粉，以及她是否能有这样的荣幸：她知道自己要去参加市长的舞会。当终于到家时，阿米莉亚·塞德利小姐挽着桑博的胳膊跳了出去，就像整个伦敦大城市里的女孩一样快乐、英俊。他和车夫都同意这一点，她的父母也同意这一点，家里的每一个仆人也都同意，他们站在大厅里，鞠躬、行屈膝礼、微笑，欢迎他们年轻的女主人。

You may be sure that she showed Rebecca over every room of the house, and everything in every one of her drawers; and her books, and her piano, and her dresses, and all her necklaces, brooches, laces, and gimcracks. She insisted upon Rebecca accepting the white cornelian and the turquoise rings, and a sweet sprigged muslin, which was too small for her now, though it would fit her friend to a nicety; and she determined in her heart to ask her mother’s permission to present her white Cashmere shawl to her friend. Could she not spare it? and had not her brother Joseph just brought her two from India?
你可以肯定，她带丽贝卡参观了房子的每个房间，以及每个抽屉里的所有东西；还有她的书，她的钢琴，她的衣服，还有她所有的项链、胸针、花边和装饰品。她坚持要丽贝卡接受白色玉髓和绿松石戒指，以及一件甜美的小枝平纹细布，虽然现在对她来说太小了，但它很适合她的朋友；她心里暗下决心，要征得母亲的同意，把她的白色羊绒披肩送给她的朋友。难道她就不能饶恕吗？她哥哥约瑟夫不是刚刚从印度给她带来了两个吗？

When Rebecca saw the two magnificent Cashmere shawls which Joseph Sedley had brought home to his sister, she said, with perfect truth, ‘that it must be delightful to have a brother,’ and easily got the pity of the tender-hearted Amelia for being alone in the world, an orphan without friends or kindred.
当丽贝卡看到约瑟夫·塞德利带回家送给妹妹的两条华丽的开司米披肩时，她完全诚实地说，“有一个兄弟一定很高兴”，很容易引起心地善良的阿米莉亚的怜悯。孤身一人在世上，是一个没有朋友、没有亲人的孤儿。

‘Not alone,’ said Amelia; ‘you know, Rebecca, I shall always be your friend, and love you as a sister—indeed I will.’
“并不孤单，”阿米莉亚说。 “你知道，丽贝卡，我将永远是你的朋友，并像妹妹一样爱你——我确实会的。”

‘Ah, but to have parents, as you have—kind, rich, affectionate parents, who give you everything you ask for; and their love, which is more precious than all! My poor papa could give me nothing, and I had but two frocks in all the world! And then, to have a brother, a dear brother! Oh, how you must love him!’
‘啊，但是要有父母，就像你一样——善良、富有、慈爱的父母，他们给你你所要求的一切；还有他们的爱，比一切都珍贵！我可怜的爸爸什么也给不了我，而我在全世界只有两件连衣裙！然后，还有一个兄弟，一个亲爱的兄弟！哦，你一定多么爱他啊！

Amelia laughed.
阿米莉亚笑了。

‘What! don’t you love him? you, who say you love everybody?’
'什么！你不爱他吗？你，谁说你爱所有人？

‘Yes, of course, I do—only—‘
“是的，当然，我愿意——只是——”

‘Only what?’
“只是什么？”

‘Only Joseph doesn’t seem to care much whether I love him or not. He gave me two fingers to shake when he arrived after ten years’ absence! He is very kind and good, but he scarcely ever speaks to me; I think he loves his pipe a great deal better than his’—but here Amelia checked herself, for why should she speak ill of her brother? ‘He was very kind to me as a child,’ she added; ‘I was but five years old when he went away.’
‘只有约瑟夫似乎不太关心我是否爱他。当他阔别十年后再次到来时，他向我伸出了两根手指与我握手！他非常友善、善良，但他几乎不跟我说话。我认为他比他的烟斗更爱他的烟斗——但在这里阿米莉亚检查了自己，因为她为什么要说她哥哥的坏话呢？ “小时候他对我很好，”她补充道。 “他走的时候我才五岁。”

‘Isn’t he very rich?’ said Rebecca. ‘They say all Indian nabobs are enormously rich.’
“他不是很有钱吗？”丽贝卡说。 “他们说所有印度富豪都非常富有。”

‘I believe he has a very large income.’
“我相信他的收入非常可观。”

‘And is your sister-in-law a nice pretty woman?’
“你的嫂子是个漂亮的女人吗？”

‘La! Joseph is not married,’ said Amelia, laughing again.
‘啦！约瑟夫还没有结婚，”阿米莉亚又笑着说道。

Perhaps she had mentioned the fact already to Rebecca, but that young lady did not appear to have remembered it; indeed, vowed and protested that she expected to see a number of Amelia’s nephews and nieces. She was quite disappointed that Mr. Sedley was not married; she was sure Amelia had said he was, and she doted so on little children.
也许她已经向丽贝卡提到过这件事，但那位年轻女士似乎不记得了；事实上，她发誓并抗议说她希望见到阿米莉亚的一些侄子和侄女。她对塞德利先生没有结婚感到非常失望。她确信阿米莉亚说过他是的，而且她非常宠爱小孩子。

‘I think you must have had enough of them at Chiswick,’ said Amelia, rather wondering at the sudden tenderness on her friend’s part; and indeed in later days Miss Sharp would never have committed herself so far as to advance opinions, the untruth of which would have been so easily detected. But we must remember that she is but nineteen as yet, unused to the art of deceiving, poor innocent creature! and making her own experience in her own person. The meaning of the above series of queries, as translated in the heart of this ingenious young woman, was simply this: ‘If Mr. Joseph Sedley is rich and unmarried, why should I not marry him? I have only a fortnight, to be sure, but there is no harm in trying.’ And she determined within herself to make this laudable attempt. She redoubled her caresses to Amelia; she kissed the white cornelian necklace as she put it on; and vowed she would never, never part with it. When the dinner-bell rang she went downstairs with her arm round her friend’s waist, as is the habit of young ladies. She was so agitated at the drawing-room door, that she could hardly find courage to enter. ‘Feel my heart, how it beats, dear!’ said she to her friend.
“我想你在奇西克一定已经受够了，”阿米莉亚说，对她朋友突然的温柔感到很奇怪。事实上，在以后的日子里，夏普小姐绝不会承诺提出任何意见，因为这些意见的不真实性很容易被发现。但我们必须记住，她还只有十九岁，还不习惯欺骗的艺术，可怜的无辜生物！并以她自己的方式创造她自己的经历。上述一系列问题的含义，在这位聪明的年轻女子心里翻译起来，其实很简单：“如果约瑟夫·塞德利先生很有钱，而且未婚，我为什么不嫁给他呢？”可以肯定的是，我只有两周的时间，但尝试一下总没有坏处。”她内心下定决心要做出这一值得称赞的尝试。她加倍地爱抚阿米莉亚。当她戴上白色的玉髓项链时，她亲吻了它。并发誓她永远、永远不会放弃它。晚餐铃声一响，她就搂着朋友的腰下楼了，这是年轻女士的习惯。她在客厅门口焦躁不安，几乎没有勇气进去。 “亲爱的，感受一下我的心，它是如何跳动的！”她对她的朋友说。

‘No, it doesn’t,’ said Amelia. ‘Come in, don’t be frightened. Papa won’t do you any harm.’
“不，事实并非如此，”阿米莉亚说。 ‘进来吧，别害怕。爸爸不会伤害你的。”

Chapter III
第三章


Rebecca Is in Presence of the Enemy
丽贝卡面对敌人

A VERY stout, puffy man, in buckskins and Hessian boots, with several immense neckcloths that rose almost to his nose, with a red striped waistcoat and an apple green coat with steel buttons almost as large as crown pieces (it was the morning costume of a dandy or blood of those days) was reading the paper by the fire when the two girls entered, and bounced off his arm-chair, and blushed excessively, and hid his entire face almost in his neckcloths at this apparition.
一个非常粗壮、浮肿的男人，穿着鹿皮和粗麻布靴子，几条巨大的领巾几乎一直高到他的鼻子，穿着一件红色条纹背心和一件苹果绿外套，上面的钢纽扣几乎和皇冠一样大（这是早上的服装）当两个女孩进来时，一个花花公子或那个时代的血统）正在火边看报纸，看到这个幽灵，他从扶手椅上弹了起来，脸涨得通红，几乎把整张脸都藏在了颈巾里。

‘It’s only your sister, Joseph,’ said Amelia, laughing and shaking the two fingers which he held out. ‘I’ve come home FOR GOOD, you know; and this is my friend, Miss Sharp, whom you have heard me mention.’
“这只是你的妹妹，约瑟夫，”阿米莉亚笑着说道，摇晃着他伸出的两根手指。 “你知道，我已经永远回家了；这是我的朋友，夏普小姐，你已经听我提到过她了。

‘No, never, upon my word,’ said the head under the neckcloth, shaking very much—‘that is, yes—what abominably cold weather, Miss’—and herewith he fell to poking the fire with all his might, although it was in the middle of June.
“不，从来没有，我保证，”领巾下的头说，摇晃得很厉害——“就是说，是的——天气真是太冷​​了，小姐。”说着，他就用尽全身力气去拨火，尽管它很冷。当时是六月中旬。

‘He’s very handsome,’ whispered Rebecca to Amelia, rather loud.
“他非常英俊。”丽贝卡相当大声地对阿米莉亚耳语道。

‘Do you think so?’ said the latter. ‘I’ll tell him.’
“你这么认为吗？”后者说道。 '我会告诉他。'

‘Darling! not for worlds,’ said Miss Sharp, starting back as timid as a fawn. She had previously made a respectful virgin-like curtsey to the gentleman, and her modest eyes gazed so perseveringly on the carpet that it was a wonder how she should have found an opportunity to see him.
'亲爱的！ “不是为了世界。”夏普小姐说，她像小鹿一样胆怯地向后退了一步。她先前曾向这位绅士行了一个处女般恭敬的屈膝礼，那双谦逊的眼睛如此执着地凝视着地毯，真奇怪她怎么会有机会见到他。

‘Thank you for the beautiful shawls, brother,’ said Amelia to the fire poker. ‘Are they not beautiful, Rebecca?’
“谢谢你送来的漂亮围巾，兄弟。”阿米莉亚对着火拨火棍说道。 “它们不漂亮吗，丽贝卡？”

‘O heavenly!’ said Miss Sharp, and her eyes went from the carpet straight to the chandelier.
“哦，天哪！”夏普小姐说道，她的目光从地毯上直直地转向枝形吊灯。

Joseph still continued a huge clattering at the poker and tongs, puffing and blowing the while, and turning as red as his yellow face would allow him. ‘I can’t make you such handsome presents, Joseph,’ continued his sister, ‘but while I was at school, I have embroidered for you a very beautiful pair of braces.’
约瑟夫仍然继续用拨火棍和火钳敲打着，一边气喘吁吁，一边在黄脸允许的范围内把脸涨得通红。 “约瑟夫，我不能给你做这么漂亮的礼物，”他的妹妹继续说道，“但是当我在学校的时候，我为你绣了一副非常漂亮的背带。”

‘Good Gad! Amelia,’ cried the brother, in serious alarm, ‘what do you mean?’ and plunging with all his might at the bell-rope, that article of furniture came away in his hand, and increased the honest fellow’s confusion. ‘For heaven’s sake see if my buggy’s at the door. I CAN’T wait. I must go. D—that groom of mine. I must go.’
‘好嘎德！阿米莉亚，”哥哥惊慌失措地喊道，“你这是什么意思？”他用尽全力去拉铃绳，那件家具从他手中滑落了，这让这个诚实的家伙更加困惑了。 “看在上帝的份上，看看我的马车是否在门口。”我等不及了。我必须去。 D——我的那个新郎。我必须去。'

At this minute the father of the family walked in, rattling his seals like a true British merchant. ‘What’s the matter, Emmy?’ says he.
就在这时，一家人的父亲走了进来，像一个真正的英国商人一样敲响了他的印章。 “怎么了，艾美？”他说。

‘Joseph wants me to see if his—his buggy is at the door. What is a buggy, Papa?’
“约瑟夫要我看看他的——他的马车是否在门口。”爸爸，什么是越野车？

‘It is a one-horse palanquin,’ said the old gentleman, who was a wag in his way.
“这是一匹马的轿子，”老先生说，他在路上爱开玩笑。

Joseph at this burst out into a wild fit of laughter; in which, encountering the eye of Miss Sharp, he stopped all of a sudden, as if he had been shot.
约瑟夫听了这话，爆发出一阵狂笑。当他遇到夏普小姐的目光时，他突然停了下来，就像中了枪一样。

‘This young lady is your friend? Miss Sharp, I am very happy to see you. Have you and Emmy been quarrelling already with Joseph, that he wants to be off?’
‘这位小姐是你的朋友？夏普小姐，很高兴见到你。你和艾米已经和约瑟夫吵架了，说他想离开吗？

‘I promised Bonamy of our service, sir,’ said Joseph, ‘to dine with him.’
“先生，我答应为博纳米服务，”约瑟夫说，“和他一起吃饭。”

‘O fie! didn’t you tell your mother you would dine here?’
‘呸！你没有告诉你妈妈你要在这里吃饭吗？

‘But in this dress it’s impossible.’
“但穿着这件衣服这是不可能的。”

‘Look at him, isn’t he handsome enough to dine anywhere, Miss Sharp?’
“看看他，夏普小姐，他不是很帅，可以去任何地方吃饭吗？”

On which, of course, Miss Sharp looked at her friend, and they both set off in a fit of laughter, highly agreeable to the old gentleman.
当然，夏普小姐看着她的朋友，两人都大笑起来，对这位老先生来说非常满意。

‘Did you ever see a pair of buckskins like those at Miss Pinkerton’s?’ continued he, following up his advantage.
“你见过平克顿小姐家那样的鹿皮鞋吗？”他继续说道，继续他的优势。

‘Gracious heavens! Father,’ cried Joseph.
‘仁慈的天啊！父亲，”约瑟夫喊道。

‘There now, I have hurt his feelings. Mrs. Sedley, my dear, I have hurt your son’s feelings. I have alluded to his buckskins. Ask Miss Sharp if I haven’t? Come, Joseph, be friends with Miss Sharp, and let us all go to dinner.’
‘现在，我伤害了他的感情。塞德利夫人，亲爱的，我伤害了你儿子的感情。我已经提到过他的鹿皮。问夏普小姐我没有吗？来吧，约瑟夫，和夏普小姐交朋友，让我们一起去吃晚饭。”

‘There’s a pillau, Joseph, just as you like it, and Papa has brought home the best turbot in Billingsgate.’
“有一个皮劳，约瑟夫，正如你喜欢的那样，爸爸带回家了比林斯盖特最好的大比目鱼。”

‘Come, come, sir, walk downstairs with Miss Sharp, and I will follow with these two young women,’ said the father, and he took an arm of wife and daughter and walked merrily off.
“来吧，来吧，先生，和夏普小姐一起下楼吧，我会和这两个年轻女人一起走下去。”父亲说着，拉着妻子和女儿的手臂，高高兴兴地走开了。

If Miss Rebecca Sharp had determined in her heart upon making the conquest of this big beau, I don’t think, ladies, we have any right to blame her; for though the task of husband-hunting is generally, and with becoming modesty, entrusted by young persons to their mammas, recollect that Miss Sharp had no kind parent to arrange these delicate matters for her, and that if she did not get a husband for herself, there was no one else in the wide world who would take the trouble off her hands. What causes young people to ‘come out,’ but the noble ambition of matrimony? What sends them trooping to watering-places? What keeps them dancing till five o’clock in the morning through a whole mortal season? What causes them to labour at pianoforte sonatas, and to learn four songs from a fashionable master at a guinea a lesson, and to play the harp if they have handsome arms and neat elbows, and to wear Lincoln Green toxophilite hats and feathers, but that they may bring down some ‘desirable’ young man with those killing bows and arrows of theirs? What causes respectable parents to take up their carpets, set their houses topsy-turvy, and spend a fifth of their year’s income in ball suppers and iced champagne? Is it sheer love of their species, and an unadulterated wish to see young people happy and dancing? Psha! they want to marry their daughters; and, as honest Mrs. Sedley has, in the depths of her kind heart, already arranged a score of little schemes for the settlement of her Amelia, so also had our beloved but unprotected Rebecca determined to do her very best to secure the husband, who was even more necessary for her than for her friend. She had a vivid imagination; she had, besides, read the Arabian Nights and Guthrie’s Geography; and it is a fact that while she was dressing for dinner, and after she had asked Amelia whether her brother was very rich, she had built for herself a most magnificent castle in the air, of which she was mistress, with a husband somewhere in the background (she had not seen him as yet, and his figure would not therefore be very distinct); she had arrayed herself in an infinity of shawls, turbans, and diamond necklaces, and had mounted upon an elephant to the sound of the march in Bluebeard, in order to pay a visit of ceremony to the Grand Mogul. Charming Alnaschar visions! it is the happy privilege of youth to construct you, and many a fanciful young creature besides Rebecca Sharp has indulged in these delightful day-dreams ere now!
如果丽贝卡·夏普小姐心里下定决心要征服这位大美女，我想，女士们，我们没有任何权利责怪她；尽管寻找丈夫的任务通常是年轻人托付给他们的妈妈的，而且变得谦虚，但请记住，夏普小姐没有仁慈的父母为她安排这些微妙的事情，如果她没有找到一个丈夫对于她自己来说，这个世界上没有其他人可以帮她解决这个麻烦。除了婚姻的崇高抱负之外，是什么让年轻人“出柜”呢？是什么让它们成群结队地来到饮水处？是什么让他们在整个凡人季节里一直跳舞到凌晨五点？是什么让他们努力学习钢琴奏鸣曲，在一堂课上向一位时尚大师学习四首歌曲，如果他们有漂亮的手臂和整洁的肘部，就可以弹竖琴，并戴着林肯格林毒药帽子和羽毛，但那他们可能会用他们的杀人弓箭打倒一些“理想的”年轻人吗？是什么导致受人尊敬的父母铺上地毯，把房子弄得乱七八糟，并将一年收入的五分之一花在舞会晚餐和冰镇香槟上？纯粹是对自己物种的热爱，以及看到年轻人快乐跳舞的纯粹愿望吗？呸！他们想娶自己的女儿；正如诚实的塞德利夫人在她善良的内心深处已经为她的阿米莉亚的定居安排了许多小计划一样，我们心爱的但未受到保护的丽贝卡也决心尽最大努力保护丈夫，他对她来说比对她的朋友更重要。 她的想象力很丰富。此外，她还读过《天方夜谭》和格思里的《地理学》。事实是，当她在穿晚饭的时候，在她问阿米莉亚她的哥哥是否很富有之后，她为自己建造了一座最宏伟的空中楼阁，她是其中的情妇，她的丈夫在某个地方。背景（她还没有见过他，因此他的身影不会很清楚）；她披上了无数的披肩、头巾和钻石项链，随着蓝胡子的游行声骑上大象，以仪式拜访大亨。迷人的阿尔纳斯查愿景！塑造你是年轻人的荣幸，除了丽贝卡·夏普之外，许多富有幻想的年轻人现在都沉迷于这些令人愉快的白日梦！

Joseph Sedley was twelve years older than his sister Amelia. He was in the East India Company’s Civil Service, and his name appeared, at the period of which we write, in the Bengal division of the East India Register, as collector of Boggley Wollah, an honourable and lucrative post, as everybody knows: in order to know to what higher posts Joseph rose in the service, the reader is referred to the same periodical.
约瑟夫·塞德利比他的妹妹阿米莉亚大十二岁。他是东印度公司的公务员，在我们写这篇文章的时期，他的名字出现在《东印度纪事报》的孟加拉分部，作为博格利·沃拉的收藏家，众所周知，这是一个光荣而有利可图的职位：为了了解约瑟夫在服务中晋升到什么更高的职位，读者可以参考同一期刊。

Boggley Wollah is situated in a fine, lonely, marshy, jungly district, famous for snipe-shooting, and where not unfrequently you may flush a tiger. Ramgunge, where there is a magistrate, is only forty miles off, and there is a cavalry station about thirty miles farther; so Joseph wrote home to his parents, when he took possession of his collectorship. He had lived for about eight years of his life, quite alone, at this charming place, scarcely seeing a Christian face except twice a year, when the detachment arrived to carry off the revenues which he had collected, to Calcutta.
博格利沃拉 (Boggley Wollah) 坐落在一个环境优美、人迹罕至、沼泽密布的丛林地区，以狙击狙击而闻名，在那里你经常会冲到一只老虎。距离拉姆贡格（Ramgunge）只有四十英里，那里有一个地方法官，再往前大约三十英里有一个骑兵站；因此，当约瑟夫获得收藏权后，他写信给他的父母。他在这个迷人的地方孤独地生活了大约八年，除了每年两次，当小分队到达加尔各答将他收集的收入运走时，他几乎看不到基督徒的面孔。

Luckily, at this time he caught a liver complaint, for the cure of which he returned to Europe, and which was the source of great comfort and amusement to him in his native country. He did not live with his family while in London, but had lodgings of his own, like a gay young bachelor. Before he went to India he was too young to partake of the delightful pleasures of a man about town, and plunged into them on his return with considerable assiduity. He drove his horses in the Park; he dined at the fashionable taverns (for the Oriental Club was not as yet invented); he frequented the theatres, as the mode was in those days, or made his appearance at the opera, laboriously attired in tights and a cocked hat.
幸运的是，此时他患上了肝脏疾病，为了治愈他回到了欧洲，这给他在祖国带来了极大的安慰和乐趣。在伦敦期间，他并不与家人住在一起，而是拥有自己的住所，就像一个年轻的同性恋单身汉一样。在去印度之前，他还太年轻，无法享受城里人的快乐，但回国后，他又以相当的勤奋投入其中。他在公园里骑马；他在时尚的小酒馆用餐（当时东方俱乐部还没有发明）；他经常去剧院，就像当时的时尚一样，或者出现在歌剧院，费力地穿着紧身衣，戴着三角帽。

On returning to India, and ever after, he used to talk of the pleasure of this period of his existence with great enthusiasm, and give you to understand that he and Brummel were the leading bucks of the day. But he was as lonely here as in his jungle at Boggley Wollah. He scarcely knew a single soul in the metropolis: and were it not for his doctor, and the society of his blue-pill, and his liver complaint, he must have died of loneliness. He was lazy, peevish, and a bon-vivant; the appearance of a lady frightened him beyond measure; hence it was but seldom that he joined the paternal circle in Russell Square, where there was plenty of gaiety, and where the jokes of his good-natured old father frightened his amourpropre. His bulk caused Joseph much anxious thought and alarm; now and then he would make a desperate attempt to get rid of his superabundant fat; but his indolence and love of good living speedily got the better of these endeavours at reform, and he found himself again at his three meals a day. He never was well dressed; but he took the hugest pains to adorn his big person, and passed many hours daily in that occupation. His valet made a fortune out of his wardrobe: his toilet-table was covered with as many pomatums and essences as ever were employed by an old beauty: he had tried, in order to give himself a waist, every girth, stay, and waistband then invented. Like most fat men, he would have his clothes made too tight, and took care they should be of the most brilliant colours and youthful cut. When dressed at length, in the afternoon, he would issue forth to take a drive with nobody in the Park; and then would come back in order to dress again and go and dine with nobody at the Piazza Coffee-House. He was as vain as a girl; and perhaps his extreme shyness was one of the results of his extreme vanity. If Miss Rebecca can get the better of him, and at her first entrance into life, she is a young person of no ordinary cleverness.
返回印度后，以及此后，他常常以极大的热情谈论他这一时期存在的乐趣，并让你明白他和布鲁梅尔是当时的领军人物。但他在这里就像在博格利沃拉的丛林里一样孤独。在这座大都市里，他几乎不认识任何一个人：如果不是因为他的医生、他的蓝色药丸的陪伴以及他的肝脏疾病，他一定会死于孤独。他很懒惰，脾气暴躁，而且是一个享乐主义的人。一位女士的出现让他无比恐惧。因此，他很少加入罗素广场的父亲圈子，那里充满了欢乐，而他善良的老父亲的笑话却让他的自尊心受到惊吓。他的块头让约瑟夫非常焦虑和惊慌。有时他会拼命地尝试摆脱多余的脂肪。但他的懒惰和对美好生活的热爱很快就战胜了这些改革努力，他发现自己又恢复了一日三餐。他从来不穿得体的。但他不遗余力地打扮自己的大个子，每天花很多时间在这份职业上。他的男仆从他的衣柜里赚了一大笔钱：他的梳妆台上铺满了老美人所用的尽可能多的油脂和香精：他曾尝试过，为了给自己一个腰部，每条腰围、腰部和腰带然后发明。像大多数胖子一样，他会把衣服做得太紧，并注意它们应该是最鲜艳的颜色和最年轻的剪裁。下午，穿好衣服后，他就会出去兜风，公园里没人。然后回来穿好衣服，去广场咖啡馆没人吃饭。 他像个女孩一样虚荣；也许他的极度害羞是他极度虚荣的结果之一。如果丽贝卡小姐能胜过他，那么在她刚步入人生的时候，她就是一个不寻常聪明的年轻人。

The first move showed considerable skill. When she called Sedley a very handsome man, she knew that Amelia would tell her mother, who would probably tell Joseph, or who, at any rate, would be pleased by the compliment paid to her son. All mothers are. If you had told Sycorax that her son Caliban was as handsome as Apollo, she would have been pleased, witch as she was. Perhaps, too, Joseph Sedley would overhear the compliment—Rebecca spoke loud enough—and he did hear, and (thinking in his heart that he was a very fine man) the praise thrilled through every fibre of his big body, and made it tingle with pleasure. Then, however, came a recoil. ‘Is the girl making fun of me?’ he thought, and straightway he bounced towards the bell, and was for retreating, as we have seen, when his father’s jokes and his mother’s entreaties caused him to pause and stay where he was. He conducted the young lady down to dinner in a dubious and agitated frame of mind. ‘Does she really think I am handsome?’ thought he, ‘or is she only making game of me?’ We have talked of Joseph Sedley being as vain as a girl. Heaven help us! the girls have only to turn the tables, and say of one of their own sex, ‘She is as vain as a man,’ and they will have perfect reason. The bearded creatures are quite as eager for praise, quite as finikin over their toilettes, quite as proud of their personal advantages, quite as conscious of their powers of fascination, as any coquette in the world.
第一个动作就显示出了相当高的技巧。当她称塞德利是一个非常英俊的男人时，她知道阿米莉亚会告诉她的母亲，她的母亲可能会告诉约瑟夫，或者无论如何，她会对她儿子的赞美感到高兴。所有的母亲都是。如果你告诉西科拉克斯她的儿子卡利班像阿波罗一样英俊，她会很高兴，尽管她是女巫。也许约瑟夫·塞德利也会无意中听到这句赞美——丽贝卡说得够大声——他确实听到了，而且（心里想，他是一个非常好的人）这种赞美让他庞大身体的每一根纤维都兴奋起来，让他感到刺痛。荣幸。然而，随后出现了后坐力。 “这女孩是在取笑我吗？”他想，立刻跳向铃声，准备撤退，正如我们所见，当他父亲的笑话和母亲的恳求让他停下来呆在原地时。他怀着疑惑而焦躁的心情领着那位年轻女士下楼去吃晚饭。 “她真的认为我很英俊吗？”他想，“还是她只是在跟我开玩笑？”我们谈到约瑟夫·塞德利像个女孩一样虚荣。天堂帮助我们！女孩们只需扭转局面，对自己的同性说：“她和男人一样虚荣”，她们就会有充分的理由。这些长着胡须的生物和世界上任何卖弄风骚的人一样渴望赞美，对自己的梳妆打扮很挑剔，对自己的个人优势感到自豪，对自己的魅力有着同样的认识。

Downstairs, then, they went, Joseph very red and blushing, Rebecca very modest, and holding her green eyes downwards. She was dressed in white, with bare shoulders as white as snow—the picture of youth, unprotected innocence, and humble virgin simplicity. ‘I must be very quiet,’ thought Rebecca, ‘and very much interested about India.’
然后，他们下了楼，约瑟夫的脸涨得通红，丽贝卡非常谦虚，绿色的眼睛向下垂着。她一身白衣，裸露的肩膀洁白如雪，一副青春的模样，毫无防备的纯真，还有卑微的处女般的纯真。 “我一定很安静，”丽贝卡想，“而且对印度非常感兴趣。”

Now we have heard how Mrs. Sedley had prepared a fine curry for her son, just as he liked it, and in the course of dinner a portion of this dish was offered to Rebecca. ‘What is it?’ said she, turning an appealing look to Mr. Joseph.
现在我们听说了塞德利夫人如何为她儿子准备了一道美味的咖喱，就像他喜欢的那样，并且在晚餐过程中，这道菜的一部分被提供给了丽贝卡。 “什么事？”她一边问道，一边用恳求的眼神看着约瑟夫先生。

‘Capital,’ said he. His mouth was full of it: his face quite red with the delightful exercise of gobbling. ‘Mother, it’s as good as my own curries in India.’
“资本，”他说。他的嘴里塞满了东西：他的脸因为愉快的狼吞虎咽而变得通红。 “妈妈，这和我在印度做的咖喱一样好吃。”

‘Oh, I must try some, if it is an Indian dish,’ said Miss Rebecca. ‘I am sure everything must be good that comes from there.’
“哦，如果是印度菜，我一定要尝尝，”丽贝卡小姐说。 “我确信从那里出来的一切一定都是好的。”

‘Give Miss Sharp some curry, my dear,’ said Mr. Sedley, laughing.
“亲爱的，给夏普小姐一些咖喱，”塞德利先生笑着说。

Rebecca had never tasted the dish before.
丽贝卡以前从未尝过这道菜。

‘Do you find it as good as everything else from India?’ said Mr. Sedley.
“你觉得它和印度的其他产品一样好吗？”塞德利先生说。

‘Oh, excellent!’ said Rebecca, who was suffering tortures with the cayenne pepper.
“哦，太棒了！”正在遭受辣椒折磨的丽贝卡说道。

‘Try a chili with it, Miss Sharp,’ said Joseph, really interested.
“夏普小姐，尝尝辣椒。”约瑟夫很感兴趣地说。

‘A chili,’ said Rebecca, gasping. ‘Oh yes!’ She thought a chili was something cool, as its name imported, and was served with some. ‘How fresh and green they look,’ she said, and put one into her mouth. It was hotter than the curry; flesh and blood could bear it no longer. She laid down her fork. ‘Water, for Heaven’s sake, water!’ she cried. Mr. Sedley burst out laughing (he was a coarse man, from the Stock Exchange, where they love all sorts of practical jokes). ‘They are real Indian, I assure you,’ said he. ‘Sambo, give Miss Sharp some water.’
“一根辣椒，”丽贝卡喘着气说道。 “哦，是的！”她认为辣椒是一种很酷的东西，正如它的名字一样，并且与一些辣椒一起上桌。 “它们看起来多么新鲜、多么绿啊，”她一边说，一边把一颗放进嘴里。它比咖喱更辣；血肉之躯已经无法承受。她放下叉子。 “水，看在上帝的份上，水！”她喊道。塞德利先生突然大笑起来（他是个粗鲁的人，来自证券交易所，那里的人喜欢各种恶作剧）。 “我向你保证，他们是真正的印度人，”他说。 “桑博，给夏普小姐一些水。”

The paternal laugh was echoed by Joseph, who thought the joke capital. The ladies only smiled a little. They thought poor Rebecca suffered too much. She would have liked to choke old Sedley, but she swallowed her mortification as well as she had the abominable curry before it, and as soon as she could speak, said, with a comical, good-humoured air, ‘I ought to have remembered the pepper which the Princess of Persia puts in the cream-tarts in the Arabian Nights. Do you put cayenne into your cream-tarts in India, sir?’
约瑟夫也发出了父亲般的笑声，他认为这个笑话太棒了。女士们只是微微一笑。他们认为可怜的丽贝卡承受了太多痛苦。她真想掐死老塞德利，但她咽下了羞辱，因为她面前有那可恶的咖喱，她一会说话，就带着滑稽、幽默的神情说道：“我应该记得的。” 《天方夜谭》中波斯公主在奶油馅饼中放入的胡椒。先生，你在印度的奶油馅饼里放辣椒吗？

Old Sedley began to laugh, and thought Rebecca was a good-humoured girl. Joseph simply said, ‘Cream-tarts, Miss? Our cream is very bad in Bengal. We generally use goats’ milk; and, ‘gad, do you know, I’ve got to prefer it!’
老塞德利笑了起来，觉得丽贝卡是个脾气很好的女孩。约瑟夫只是说：“小姐，奶油馅饼吗？”我们的奶油在孟加拉非常糟糕。我们一般用羊奶；并且，“天哪，你知道吗，我必须更喜欢它！”

‘You won’t like EVERYTHING from India now, Miss Sharp,’ said the old gentleman; but when the ladies had retired after dinner, the wily old fellow said to his son, ‘Have a care, Joe; that girl is setting her cap at you.’
“夏普小姐，你现在不会喜欢所有来自印度的东西了，”老先生说道。但当女士们吃完晚饭后都退了，这个狡猾的老家伙对他的儿子说：“小心点，乔；”那个女孩正在向你戴帽子。”

‘Pooh! nonsense!’ said Joe, highly flattered. ‘I recollect, sir, there was a girl at Dumdum, a daughter of Cutler of the Artillery, and afterwards married to Lance, the surgeon, who made a dead set at me in the year ‘4—at me and Mulligatawney, whom I mentioned to you before dinner—a devilish good fellow Mulligatawney—he’s a magistrate at Budgebudge, and sure to be in council in five years. Well, sir, the Artillery gave a ball, and Quintin, of the King’s 14th, said to me, ‘Sedley,’ said he, ‘I bet you thirteen to ten that Sophy Cutler hooks either you or Mulligatawney before the rains.’ ‘Done,’ says I; and egad, sir—this claret’s very good. Adamson’s or Carbonell’s?’
'呸！胡说八道！”乔受宠若惊地说。 “我记得，先生，在杜姆杜姆有一个女孩，是炮兵卡特勒的女儿，后来嫁给了外科医生兰斯，他在第四年对我和穆利加托尼下了毒手，我晚饭前向你提到过——一个邪恶的好家伙穆利加托尼——他是巴奇巴奇的一名地方法官，五年后肯定会在议会任职。好吧，先生，炮兵队打了一场球，国王第 14 团的昆廷对我说，“塞德利，”他说，“我跟你打赌十三比十，索菲·卡特勒会在下雨之前钩住你或穆利加托尼。”完成了，我说；哎呀，先生——这红葡萄酒非常好。亚当森的还是卡博内尔的？

A slight snore was the only reply: the honest stockbroker was asleep, and so the rest of Joseph’s story was lost for that day. But he was always exceedingly communicative in a man’s party, and has told this delightful tale many scores of times to his apothecary, Dr. Gollop, when he came to inquire about the liver and the blue-pill.
唯一的回答是轻微的鼾声：诚实的股票经纪人睡着了，所以那天约瑟夫的故事的其余部分就消失了。但他在男人的聚会中总是非常健谈，当他的药剂师戈洛普医生来询问肝脏和蓝色药丸时，他已经向他讲了几十次这个令人愉快的故事。

Being an invalid, Joseph Sedley contented himself with a bottle of claret besides his Madeira at dinner, and he managed a couple of plates full of strawberries and cream, and twenty-four little rout cakes that were lying neglected in a plate near him, and certainly (for novelists have the privilege of knowing everything) he thought a great deal about the girl upstairs. ‘A nice, gay, merry young creature,’ thought he to himself. ‘How she looked at me when I picked up her handkerchief at dinner! She dropped it twice. Who’s that singing in the drawing-room? ‘Gad! shall I go up and see?’
作为一个病人，约瑟夫·塞德利在晚餐时除了马德拉酒外，还喝了一瓶红葡萄酒，他还吃了几盘装满草莓和奶油的盘子，还有二十四个小蛋糕，这些蛋糕被忽视地放在他旁边的盘子里。当然（因为小说家有权了解一切）他对楼上的女孩想了很多。 “一个善良、快乐、快乐的年轻人，”他心里想。 “当我在晚餐时拿起她的手帕时，她是多么看着我！”她把它掉了两次。客厅里唱歌的是谁？ ‘嘎德！我要上去看看吗？

But his modesty came rushing upon him with uncontrollable force. His father was asleep: his hat was in the hall: there was a hackneycoach standing hard by in Southampton Row. ‘I’ll go and see the Forty Thieves,’ said he, ‘and Miss Decamp’s dance”; and he slipped away gently on the pointed toes of his boots, and disappeared, without waking his worthy parent.
但他的谦虚却以无法控制的力量向他袭来。他的父亲已经睡着了：他的帽子在大厅里：南安普敦街有一辆出租马车停在附近。 “我要去看看四十大盗，”他说，“还有德坎普小姐的舞会。”他踩着尖头靴子轻轻地溜走，消失了，没有吵醒他可敬的父母。

‘There goes Joseph,’ said Amelia, who was looking from the open windows of the drawing-room, while Rebecca was singing at the piano.
“约瑟夫走了，”阿米莉亚从客厅开着的窗户往外看，说道，而丽贝卡正在钢琴上唱歌。

‘Miss Sharp has frightened him away,’ said Mrs. Sedley. ‘Poor Joe, why WILL he be so shy?’
“夏普小姐把他吓跑了，”塞德利夫人说。 “可怜的乔，他为什么这么害羞？”

Chapter IV
第四章


The Green Silk Purse
绿色丝绸钱包

Poor Joe’s panic lasted for two or three days; during which he did not visit the house, nor during that period did Miss Rebecca ever mention his name. She was all respectful gratitude to Mrs. Sedley; delighted beyond measure at the Bazaars; and in a whirl of wonder at the theatre, whither the good-natured lady took her. One day, Amelia had a headache, and could not go upon some party of pleasure to which the two young people were invited: nothing could induce her friend to go without her. ‘What! you who have shown the poor orphan what happiness and love are for the first time in her life—quit YOU? Never!’ and the green eyes looked up to Heaven and filled with tears; and Mrs. Sedley could not but own that her daughter’s friend had a charming kind heart of her own.
可怜的乔的恐慌持续了两三天。在此期间，他没有来过这所房子，丽贝卡小姐也没有提到过他的名字。她对塞德利夫人充满了尊敬和感激。在集市上感到无比的高兴；那位好心的女士带她去了剧院，她感到一阵惊奇。有一天，阿米莉亚头痛，无法参加两个年轻人受邀参加的某个聚会：没有什么可以诱使她的朋友不带她去。 '什么！你第一次向这个可怜的孤儿展示了她一生中的幸福和爱是什么——离开你吗？从来没有！”绿色的眼睛仰望着天堂，眼里充满了泪水。塞德利夫人不得不承认，她女儿的朋友也有一颗迷人的善良之心。

As for Mr. Sedley’s jokes, Rebecca laughed at them with a cordiality and perseverance which not a little pleased and softened that goodnatured gentleman. Nor was it with the chiefs of the family alone that Miss Sharp found favour. She interested Mrs. Blenkinsop by evincing the deepest sympathy in the raspberry-jam preserving, which operation was then going on in the Housekeeper’s room; she persisted in calling Sambo ‘Sir,’ and ‘Mr. Sambo,’ to the delight of that attendant; and she apologised to the lady’s maid for giving her trouble in venturing to ring the bell, with such sweetness and humility, that the Servants’ Hall was almost as charmed with her as the Drawing Room.
至于塞德利先生的笑话，丽贝卡以一种诚恳和毅力的方式嘲笑他们，这让那位和蔼可亲的绅士感到非常高兴和软化。夏普小姐不仅受到家族首领的青睐。她对覆盆子果酱的保存表示最深切的同情，引起了布伦金索普夫人的兴趣，这项工作当时正在女管家的房间里进行。她坚持称呼桑博为“先生”和“先生”。 “三宝”，让服务员很高兴；她向那位女士的女仆道歉，因为她冒险按门铃，给她带来了麻烦，她的语气如此甜蜜和谦逊，以至于仆人大厅几乎和客厅一样对她着迷。

Once, in looking over some drawings which Amelia had sent from school, Rebecca suddenly came upon one which caused her to burst into tears and leave the room. It was on the day when Joe Sedley made his second appearance.
有一次，丽贝卡在翻阅阿米莉亚从学校寄来的一些图画时，突然看到其中一幅图画，让她泪流满面地离开了房间。那天是乔·塞德利第二次亮相。

Amelia hastened after her friend to know the cause of this display of feeling, and the good-natured girl came back without her companion, rather affected too. ‘You know, her father was our drawing-master, Mamma, at Chiswick, and used to do all the best parts of our drawings.’
阿米莉亚赶紧追上她的朋友，想知道她表现出这种感觉的原因，而这个好心的女孩回来时没有她的同伴，也很受影响。 “你知道，她的父亲是我们在奇西克的绘画大师妈妈，他曾经负责我们绘画中所有最好的部分。”

‘My love! I’m sure I always heard Miss Pinkerton say that he did not touch them—he only mounted them.’ ‘It was called mounting, Mamma. Rebecca remembers the drawing, and her father working at it, and the thought of it came upon her rather suddenly—and so, you know, she—‘
'亲爱的！我确信我总是听到平克顿小姐说他没有碰过它们——他只是安装了它们。”“这就是所谓的安装，妈妈。丽贝卡记得这幅画，还有她父亲在画它，她突然想到了这件事——所以，你知道，她——”

‘The poor child is all heart,’ said Mrs. Sedley.
“这个可怜的孩子全心全意，”塞德利夫人说。

‘I wish she could stay with us another week,’ said Amelia.
“我希望她能再和我们一起呆一周，”阿米莉亚说。

‘She’s devilish like Miss Cutler that I used to meet at Dumdum, only fairer. She’s married now to Lance, the Artillery Surgeon. Do you know, Ma’am, that once Quintin, of the 14th, bet me—‘
“她就像我以前在达姆杜姆见过的卡特勒小姐一样邪恶，只是更公平。她现在嫁给了炮兵外科医生兰斯。你知道吗，女士，十四号的昆廷曾经和我打赌——”

‘O Joseph, we know that story,’ said Amelia, laughing. Never mind about telling that; but persuade Mamma to write to Sir Something Crawley for leave of absence for poor dear Rebecca: here she comes, her eyes red with weeping.’
“哦，约瑟夫，我们知道这个故事，”阿米莉亚笑着说。别介意说这个；但请说服妈妈写信给克劳利爵士，为可怜的丽贝卡请假：她来了，眼睛哭得通红。

‘I’m better, now,’ said the girl, with the sweetest smile possible, taking good-natured Mrs. Sedley’s extended hand and kissing it respectfully. ‘How kind you all are to me! All,’ she added, with a laugh, ‘except you, Mr. Joseph.’
“我现在好多了，”女孩带着最甜蜜的微笑说道，握住和蔼可亲的塞德利夫人伸出的手，恭敬地吻了一下。 ‘你们对我真好！ “所有人，”她笑着补充道，“除了你，约瑟夫先生。”

‘Me!’ said Joseph, meditating an instant departure ‘Gracious Heavens! Good Gad! Miss Sharp!’
“我！”约瑟夫说，想着立即离开，“天哪！好嘎德！夏普小姐！

‘Yes; how could you be so cruel as to make me eat that horrid pepper-dish at dinner, the first day I ever saw you? You are not so good to me as dear Amelia.’
'是的;我第一天见到你，你怎么能这么残忍，让我在晚餐时吃那道可怕的辣椒菜呢？你对我不如亲爱的阿米莉亚那么好。

‘He doesn’t know you so well,’ cried Amelia.
“他不太了解你，”阿米莉亚喊道。

‘I defy anybody not to be good to you, my dear,’ said her mother.
“亲爱的，我不认为任何人会对你不好，”她的母亲说道。

‘The curry was capital; indeed it was,’ said Joe, quite gravely. ‘Perhaps there was NOT enough citron juice in it—no, there was NOT.’
“咖喱是资本；确实如此。”乔非常严肃地说。 “也许里面没有足够的柚子汁——不，没有。”

‘And the chilis?’
“那辣椒呢？”

‘By Jove, how they made you cry out!’ said Joe, caught by the ridicule of the circumstance, and exploding in a fit of laughter which ended quite suddenly, as usual.
“天哪，他们把你弄哭了！”乔说，他被周围的嘲笑所吸引，爆发出一阵笑声，但像往常一样突然结束了。

‘I shall take care how I let YOU choose for me another time,’ said Rebecca, as they went down again to dinner. ‘I didn’t think men were fond of putting poor harmless girls to pain.’
“下次我会注意如何让你为我选择，”丽贝卡说，他们再次下楼去吃晚饭。 “我不认为男人喜欢让可怜的无害的女孩承受痛苦。”

‘By Gad, Miss Rebecca, I wouldn’t hurt you for the world.’
“天哪，丽贝卡小姐，我绝对不会伤害你。”

‘No,’ said she, ‘I KNOW you wouldn’t”; and then she gave him ever so gentle a pressure with her little hand, and drew it back quite frightened, and looked first for one instant in his face, and then down at the carpet-rods; and I am not prepared to say that Joe’s heart did not thump at this little involuntary, timid, gentle motion of regard on the part of the simple girl.
“不，”她说，“我知道你不会”；然后她用她的小手轻轻地按了按他，然后又非常害怕地把它缩了回来，先看了一眼他的脸，然后又低头看了看地毯杆。我不准备说乔的心没有因为这个单纯的女孩不自觉的、胆怯的、温柔的问候动作而跳动。

It was an advance, and as such, perhaps, some ladies of indisputable correctness and gentility will condemn the action as immodest; but, you see, poor dear Rebecca had all this work to do for herself. If a person is too poor to keep a servant, though ever so elegant, he must sweep his own rooms: if a dear girl has no dear Mamma to settle matters with the young man, she must do it for herself. And oh, what a mercy it is that these women do not exercise their powers oftener! We can’t resist them, if they do. Let them show ever so little inclination, and men go down on their knees at once: old or ugly, it is all the same. And this I set down as a positive truth. A woman with fair opportunities, and without an absolute hump, may marry WHOM SHE LIKES. Only let us be thankful that the darlings are like the beasts of the field, and don’t know their own power. They would overcome us entirely if they did.
这是一种进步，因此，也许一些无可争议的正确性和绅士风度的女士会谴责这种行为不谦虚；但是，你看，可怜的丽贝卡有这么多工作要做。如果一个人太穷，雇不起仆人，尽管他很优雅，他也必须打扫自己的房间：如果一个亲爱的女孩没有亲爱的妈妈来解决这个年轻人的问题，她就必须自己打扫。哦，这些女人不经常运用她们的力量是多么可惜啊！如果他们这样做的话，我们无法抗拒。只要他们表现出一点点的倾向，人们就会立即跪下：无论是老还是丑，都一样。我将此视为一个积极的事实。一个拥有公平机会且没有绝对驼峰的女人可能会嫁给她喜欢的人。只是让我们庆幸的是，宝贝们就像田野里的野兽一样，不知道自己的力量。如果他们这样做的话，他们就会完全战胜我们。

‘Egad!’ thought Joseph, entering the dining-room, ‘I exactly begin to feel as I did at Dumdum with Miss Cutler.’ Many sweet little appeals, half tender, half jocular, did Miss Sharp make to him about the dishes at dinner; for by this time she was on a footing of considerable familiarity with the family, and as for the girls, they loved each other like sisters. Young unmarried girls always do, if they are in a house together for ten days.
“哎呀！”走进餐厅时，约瑟夫心想，“我开始感觉就像在达姆杜姆和卡特勒小姐一样。”夏普小姐对他提出了许多甜蜜的小请求，一半温柔，一半幽默，关于餐厅的菜肴。晚餐;因为此时她已经和这个家庭相当熟悉了，至于女孩们，她们像姐妹一样彼此相爱。年轻的未婚女孩总是这样做，如果她们在一个房子里呆上十天。

As if bent upon advancing Rebecca’s plans in every way—what must Amelia do, but remind her brother of a promise made last Easter holidays—‘When I was a girl at school,’ said she, laughing—a promise that he, Joseph, would take her to Vauxhall. ‘Now,’ she said, ‘that Rebecca is with us, will be the very time.’
仿佛一心要以各种方式推进丽贝卡的计划——阿米莉亚必须做什么，但要提醒她哥哥去年复活节假期时许下的诺言——“当我还是个上学的女孩时，”她笑着说——诺言他，约瑟夫，会带她去沃克斯豪尔。 “现在，”她说，“丽贝卡和我们在一起，正是时候。”

‘O, delightful!’ said Rebecca, going to clap her hands; but she recollected herself, and paused, like a modest creature, as she was.
“噢，太棒了！”丽贝卡一边拍手一边说。但她回过神来，停了下来，就像一个谦虚的人一样。

‘To-night is not the night,’ said Joe.
“今晚不是夜晚，”乔说。

‘Well, to-morrow.’
“好吧，明天。”

‘To-morrow your Papa and I dine out,’ said Mrs. Sedley.
“明天我和你爸爸出去吃饭，”塞德利夫人说。

‘You don’t suppose that I’m going, Mrs. Sed?’ said her husband, ‘and that a woman of your years and size is to catch cold, in such an abominable damp place?’
“塞德太太，你不认为我会去吗？”她的丈夫说道，“像你这样年纪、这么大块头的女人，在这么潮湿的地方会感冒吗？”

‘The children must have someone with them,’ cried Mrs. Sedley.
“孩子们必须有人陪伴，”塞德利夫人喊道。

‘Let Joe go,’ said-his father, laughing. ‘He’s big enough.’ At which speech even Mr. Sambo at the sideboard burst out laughing, and poor fat Joe felt inclined to become a parricide almost.
“让乔走吧，”他的父亲笑着说道。 “他已经够大了。”听了这话，连餐具柜上的桑博先生都笑了起来，可怜的胖乔差点就想弑父了。

‘Undo his stays!’ continued the pitiless old gentleman. ‘Fling some water in his face, Miss Sharp, or carry him upstairs: the dear creature’s fainting. Poor victim! carry him up; he’s as light as a feather!’
“解开他的束缚！”无情的老绅士继续说道。 “夏普小姐，往他脸上泼点水，或者把他抱到楼上：这个可爱的生物昏倒了。”可怜的受害者！把他抱起来；他就像羽毛一样轻！

‘If I stand this, sir, I’m d———!’ roared Joseph.
“如果我忍受这个，先生，我就——！”约瑟夫咆哮道。

‘Order Mr. Jos’s elephant, Sambo!’ cried the father. ‘Send to Exeter ‘Change, Sambo”; but seeing Jos ready almost to cry with vexation, the old joker stopped his laughter, and said, holding out his hand to his son, ‘It’s all fair on the Stock Exchange, Jos—and, Sambo, never mind the elephant, but give me and Mr. Jos a glass of Champagne. Boney himself hasn’t got such in his cellar, my boy!’
“订购乔斯先生的大象，桑博！”父亲喊道。 ‘发送到埃克塞特‘改变，桑博’；但看到乔斯气得快要哭了，老小丑止住了笑声，向儿子伸出手说道：“证券交易所是公平的，乔斯——而且，桑博，别介意大象，只要给他儿子，就可以了。”我和乔斯先生喝了一杯香槟。博尼自己的地窖里还没有这样的东西，我的孩子！”

A goblet of Champagne restored Joseph’s equanimity, and before the bottle was emptied, of which as an invalid he took two-thirds, he had agreed to take the young ladies to Vauxhall.
一杯香槟让约瑟夫恢复了平静，在酒倒空之前，作为一个病人，他喝了三分之二，他同意带年轻的女士们去沃克斯豪尔。

‘The girls must have a gentleman apiece,’ said the old gentleman. ‘Jos will be sure to leave Emmy in the crowd, he will be so taken up with Miss Sharp here. Send to 96, and ask George Osborne if he’ll come.’
“女孩们必须各有一位绅士。”老绅士说道。 “乔斯肯定会把艾美留在人群中，他会非常喜欢这里的夏普小姐。”发送至 96，询问乔治·奥斯本是否会来。

At this, I don’t know in the least for what reason, Mrs. Sedley looked at her husband and laughed. Mr. Sedley’s eyes twinkled in a manner indescribably roguish, and he looked at Amelia; and Amelia, hanging down her head, blushed as only young ladies of seventeen know how to blush, and as Miss Rebecca Sharp never blushed in her life—at least not since she was eight years old, and when she was caught stealing jam out of a cupboard by her godmother. ‘Amelia had better write a note,’ said her father; ‘and let George Osborne see what a beautiful handwriting we have brought back from Miss Pinkerton’s. Do you remember when you wrote to him to come on Twelfth-night, Emmy, and spelt twelfth without the f?’
说到这里，我不知道出于什么原因，塞德利夫人看着自己的丈夫，笑了。塞德利先生的眼睛闪烁着难以形容的淘气光芒，他看着阿米莉亚。阿米莉亚低下头，脸红了，只有十七岁的年轻女士才知道如何脸红，而丽贝卡·夏普小姐一生中从未脸红过——至少从她八岁起，当她从商店里偷果酱被抓到时，就没有脸红过。她教母的一个橱柜。 “阿米莉亚最好写一张便条，”她父亲说。 “让乔治·奥斯本看看我们从平克顿小姐那里带回了多么美丽的字迹。你还记得你写信给他，要他来参加《艾美奖第十二夜》时，把“twelfth”拼写成没有“f”吗？

‘That was years ago,’ said Amelia.
“那是几年前的事了，”阿米莉亚说。

‘It seems like yesterday, don’t it, John?’ said Mrs. Sedley to her husband; and that night in a conversation which took place in a front room in the second floor, in a sort of tent, hung round with chintz of a rich and fantastic India pattern, and double with calico of a tender rose-colour; in the interior of which species of marquee was a featherbed, on which were two pillows, on which were two round red faces, one in a laced nightcap, and one in a simple cotton one, ending in a tassel—in a CURTAIN LECTURE, I say, Mrs. Sedley took her husband to task for his cruel conduct to poor Joe.
“约翰，这一切仿佛就发生在昨天，不是吗？”塞德利夫人对她的丈夫说道。那天晚上，我们在二楼的一间前屋里进行了一次谈话，那是在一个类似帐篷的地方，周围挂满了具有丰富而奇妙的印度图案的印花棉布，双层布上还挂着柔和的玫瑰色印花布。里面的帐篷里有一张羽毛床，上面有两个枕头，枕头上有两张圆圆的红脸，一个戴着蕾丝睡帽，另一个戴着简单的棉质睡帽，末端有流苏——在一场幕布演讲中，我说，塞德利夫人责备了她丈夫对可怜的乔的残忍行为。

‘It was quite wicked of you, Mr. Sedley,’ said she, ‘to torment the poor boy so.’
“塞德利先生，你这样折磨这个可怜的孩子，真是太邪恶了。”

‘My dear,’ said the cotton-tassel in defence of his conduct, ‘Jos is a great deal vainer than you ever were in your life, and that’s saying a good deal. Though, some thirty years ago, in the year seventeen hundred and eighty—what was it?—perhaps you had a right to be vain—I don’t say no. But I’ve no patience with Jos and his dandified modesty. It is out-Josephing Joseph, my dear, and all the while the boy is only thinking of himself, and what a fine fellow he is. I doubt, Ma’am, we shall have some trouble with him yet. Here is Emmy’s little friend making love to him as hard as she can; that’s quite clear; and if she does not catch him some other will. That man is destined to be a prey to woman, as I am to go on ‘Change every day. It’s a mercy he did not bring us over a black daughterin-law, my dear. But, mark my words, the first woman who fishes for him, hooks him.’
“亲爱的，”棉流苏为自己的行为辩护道，“乔斯比你一生中任何时候都虚荣得多，这已经说明了很多。”不过，大约三十年前，一千七百八十年——那是什么？——也许你有权虚荣——我不会说不。但我对乔斯和他花哨的谦虚没有耐心。这是约瑟夫·约瑟夫，亲爱的，而这个男孩自始至终只想着自己，想着他是一个多么好的小伙子。女士，我怀疑我们还会遇到麻烦。这是艾米的小朋友正在竭尽全力地和他做爱；这很清楚；如果她没有抓住他，就会有其他人。那个男人注定会成为女人的猎物，就像我一样，每天都在改变。亲爱的，幸好他没有给我们带来一个黑人儿媳妇。但是，记住我的话，第一个钓鱼的女人就钓到了他。”

‘She shall go off to-morrow, the little artful creature,’ said Mrs. Sedley, with great energy.
“她明天就要走了，这个狡猾的小家伙，”塞德利夫人精力充沛地说。

‘Why not she as well as another, Mrs. Sedley? The girl’s a white face at any rate. I don’t care who marries him. Let Joe please himself.’
“为什么不包括她和另一个塞德利夫人呢？”无论如何，这女孩的脸是白的。我不在乎谁嫁给他。让乔取悦自己吧。

And presently the voices of the two speakers were hushed, or were replaced by the gentle but unromantic music of the nose; and save when the church bells tolled the hour and the watchman called it, all was silent at the house of John Sedley, Esquire, of Russell Square, and the Stock Exchange.
不久，两个说话者的声音就安静下来，或者被鼻子发出的温柔但不浪漫的音乐所取代。除了教堂的钟声敲响和守夜人报时外，绅士约翰·塞德利的家里、罗素广场和证券交易所都鸦雀无声。

When morning came, the good-natured Mrs. Sedley no longer thought of executing her threats with regard to Miss Sharp; for though nothing is more keen, nor more common, nor more justifiable, than maternal jealousy, yet she could not bring herself to suppose that the little, humble, grateful, gentle governess would dare to look up to such a magnificent personage as the Collector of Boggley Wollah. The petition, too, for an extension of the young lady’s leave of absence had already been despatched, and it would be difficult to find a pretext for abruptly dismissing her.
到了早晨，好心的塞德利夫人不再考虑对夏普小姐实施她的威胁；因为虽然没有什么比母亲的嫉妒更强烈、更普遍、更合理的了，但她无法让自己相信，这个谦虚、感激、温柔的家庭女家庭教师竟然敢仰望收藏家这样一位伟大的人物。博格利·沃拉。那位小姐延长请假的请愿书也已经发出了，很难找到借口突然解雇她。

And as if all things conspired in favour of the gentle Rebecca, the very elements (although she was not inclined at first to acknowledge their action in her behalf) interposed to aid her. For on the evening appointed for the Vauxhall party, George Osborne having come to dinner, and the elders of the house having departed, according to invitation, to dine with Alderman Balls at Highbury Barn, there came on such a thunder-storm as only happens on Vauxhall nights, and as obliged the young people, perforce, to remain at home. Mr. Osborne did not seem in the least disappointed at this occurrence. He and Joseph Sedley drank a fitting quantity of port-wine, tete-a-tete, in the dining-room, during the drinking of which Sedley told a number of his best Indian stories; for he was extremely talkative in man’s society; and afterwards Miss Amelia Sedley did the honours of the drawing-room; and these four young persons passed such a comfortable evening together, that they declared they were rather glad of the thunder-storm than otherwise, which had caused them to put off their visit to Vauxhall.
仿佛所有的事情都在密谋对温柔的丽贝卡有利，各种元素（尽管她一开始并不愿意承认他们为她所做的事情）都介入来帮助她。因为在预定参加沃克斯豪尔聚会的那天晚上，乔治·奥斯本来参加晚宴，家里的长老们按照邀请离开，去海布里谷仓与市议员鲍尔斯共进晚餐，突然发生了一场罕见的雷雨。在沃克斯豪尔的夜晚，年轻人被迫留在家里。奥斯本先生似乎对这件事一点也不失望。他和约瑟夫·塞德利在餐厅里一对一地喝了适量的波特酒，在喝的过程中，塞德利讲了一些他最精彩的印度故事。因为他在人类社会中非常健谈；随后，阿米莉亚·塞德利小姐来到了客厅。这四个年轻人一起度过了一个如此舒适的夜晚，他们声称他们对这场雷雨感到非常高兴，这使得他们推迟了对沃克斯豪尔的访问。

Osborne was Sedley’s godson, and had been one of the family any time these three-and-twenty years. At six weeks old, he had received from John Sedley a present of a silver cup; at six months old, a coral with gold whistle and bells; from his youth upwards he was ‘tipped’ regularly by the old gentleman at Christmas: and on going back to school, he remembered perfectly well being thrashed by Joseph Sedley, when the latter was a big, swaggering hobbadyhoy, and George an impudent urchin of ten years old. In a word, George was as familiar with the family as such daily acts of kindness and intercourse could make him.
奥斯本是塞德利的教子，近三年二十年来一直是这个家庭的一员。六周大时，他从约翰·塞德利那里收到了一份银杯礼物；六个月大时，是一只带有金哨子和铃铛的珊瑚；从青年时代起，这位老绅士就经常在圣诞节给他“小费”：回到学校后，他清楚地记得自己被约瑟夫·塞德利殴打，当时后者是个大而招摇的爱好家，而乔治则是个无礼的顽童。十岁。总而言之，乔治对这个家庭非常熟悉，每天的友善行为和交往使他对这个家庭非常熟悉。

‘Do you remember, Sedley, what a fury you were in, when I cut off the tassels of your Hessian boots, and how Miss—hem!—how Amelia rescued me from a beating, by falling down on her knees and crying out to her brother Jos, not to beat little George?’
“你还记得吗，塞德利，当我剪掉你黑森靴子上的流苏时，你是多么愤怒，还记得小姐——嗯！——阿米莉亚如何把我从殴打中救出来，她跪倒在地，大声喊叫。她哥哥乔斯，不是为了打败小乔治吗？

Jos remembered this remarkable circumstance perfectly well, but vowed that he had totally forgotten it.
乔斯清楚地记得这个非凡的情况，但发誓他已经完全忘记了。

‘Well, do you remember coming down in a gig to Dr. Swishtail’s to see me, before you went to India, and giving me half a guinea and a pat on the head? I always had an idea that you were at least seven feet high, and was quite astonished at your return from India to find you no taller than myself.’
“嗯，你还记得在去印度之前，你乘平底车去斯威什泰尔医生那里看我，给了我半个几尼，并拍拍我的头吗？”我一直认为你至少有七英尺高，当你从印度回来时发现你并不比我高时，我感到非常惊讶。

‘How good of Mr. Sedley to go to your school and give you the money!’ exclaimed Rebecca, in accents of extreme delight.
“塞德利先生去你的学校给你钱真是太好了！”丽贝卡用极其高兴的语气大声说道。

‘Yes, and after I had cut the tassels of his boots too. Boys never forget those tips at school, nor the givers.’
“是的，在我也剪掉了他靴子上的流苏之后。男孩永远不会忘记学校里的那些建议，也不会忘记那些给予者。”

‘I delight in Hessian boots,’ said Rebecca. Jos Sedley, who admired his own legs prodigiously, and always wore this ornamental chaussure, was extremely pleased at this remark, though he drew his legs under his chair as it was made.
“我喜欢黑森靴子，”丽贝卡说。乔斯·塞德利非常欣赏自己的双腿，总是穿着这件装饰性的长裤，他对这句话感到非常高兴，尽管他在制作椅子时把腿缩到了椅子下面。

‘Miss Sharp!’ said George Osborne, ‘you who are so clever an artist, you must make a grand historical picture of the scene of the boots. Sedley shall be represented in buckskins, and holding one of the injured boots in one hand; by the other he shall have hold of my shirt-frill. Amelia shall be kneeling near him, with her little hands up; and the picture shall have a grand allegorical title, as the frontispieces have in the Medulla and the spelling-book.’
“夏普小姐！”乔治·奥斯本说，“你是一位如此聪明的艺术家，你必须为靴子的场景画出一幅宏伟的历史图画。塞德利将穿着鹿皮衣，一只手拿着一只受伤的靴子；另一个他会抓住我的衬衫褶边。阿米莉亚将跪在他身边，举起她的小手；这幅画应该有一个宏大的寓言标题，就像卷首插画和拼写书上的标题一样。

‘I shan’t have time to do it here,’ said Rebecca. ‘I’ll do it when —when I’m gone.’ And she dropped her voice, and looked so sad and piteous, that everybody felt how cruel her lot was, and how sorry they would be to part with her.
“我没有时间在这里做这件事，”丽贝卡说。 “当——当我离开的时候，我会这么做。”她压低了声音，看上去如此悲伤和可怜，每个人都觉得她的命运是多么残酷，如果与她分开，他们会多么遗憾。

‘O that you could stay longer, dear Rebecca,’ said Amelia.
“哦，但愿你能多待一会儿，亲爱的丽贝卡，”阿米莉亚说。

‘Why?’ answered the other, still more sadly. ‘That I may be only the more unhap—unwilling to lose you?’ And she turned away her head. Amelia began to give way to that natural infirmity of tears which, we have said, was one of the defects of this silly little thing. George Osborne looked at the two young women with a touched curiosity; and Joseph Sedley heaved something very like a sigh out of his big chest, as he cast his eyes down towards his favourite Hessian boots.
“为什么？”另一个人回答道，语气更加悲伤。 “我可能会更加不幸——不愿意失去你？”她转过头去。阿米莉亚开始屈服于天生的眼泪，我们已经说过，这是这个愚蠢的小东西的缺陷之一。乔治·奥斯本带着感动的好奇心看着这两个年轻女子。约瑟夫·塞德利（Joseph Sedley）从他宽阔的胸膛中发出了一声类似叹息的声音，他低头看着他最喜欢的黑森靴子。

‘Let us have some music, Miss Sedley—Amelia,’ said George, who felt at that moment an extraordinary, almost irresistible impulse to seize the above-mentioned young woman in his arms, and to kiss her in the face of the company; and she looked at him for a moment, and if I should say that they fell in love with each other at that single instant of time, I should perhaps be telling an untruth, for the fact is that these two young people had been bred up by their parents for this very purpose, and their banns had, as it were, been read in their respective families any time these ten years. They went off to the piano, which was situated, as pianos usually are, in the back drawing-room; and as it was rather dark, Miss Amelia, in the most unaffected way in the world, put her hand into Mr. Osborne’s, who, of course, could see the way among the chairs and ottomans a great deal better than she could. But this arrangement left Mr. Joseph Sedley tete-a-tete with Rebecca, at the drawing-room table, where the latter was occupied in knitting a green silk purse.
“我们来听点音乐吧，塞德利小姐——阿米莉亚，”乔治说，此时此刻，他感到一种非同寻常的、几乎无法抗拒的冲动，想把上面提到的年轻女子抱在怀里，当着众人的面亲吻她。她看了他一会儿，如果我说他们在那一瞬间爱上了对方，我也许是在撒谎，因为事实是这两个年轻人是被养大的他们的父母就是为了这个目的而制定的，而且这十年来，他们的禁令可以说随时在各自的家庭中宣读。他们走到钢琴前，钢琴和通常的钢琴一样，位于后客厅。由于天色相当暗，阿米莉亚小姐以世界上最不受影响的方式将她的手伸进了奥斯本先生的手里，当然，奥斯本先生比她更能看清椅子和脚凳之间的路。但这种安排让约瑟夫·塞德利先生和丽贝卡坐在客厅的桌子旁，后者正忙着编织一个绿色的丝绸钱包。

‘There is no need to ask family secrets,’ said Miss Sharp. ‘Those two have told theirs.’
“没有必要询问家庭秘密，”夏普小姐说。 “那两个人已经说了他们的事了。”

‘As soon as he gets his company,’ said Joseph, ‘I believe the affair is settled. George Osborne is a capital fellow.’
“一旦他得到了他的陪伴，”约瑟夫说，“我相信这件事就解决了。”乔治·奥斯本是一位资本家。

‘And your sister the dearest creature in the world,’ said Rebecca. ‘Happy the man who wins her!’ With this, Miss Sharp gave a great sigh.
“你的妹妹是世界上最可爱的人，”丽贝卡说。 “赢得她的男人真幸福！”说完，夏普小姐长长地叹了口气。

When two unmarried persons get together, and talk upon such delicate subjects as the present, a great deal of confidence and intimacy is presently established between them. There is no need of giving a special report of the conversation which now took place between Mr. Sedley and the young lady; for the conversation, as may be judged from the foregoing specimen, was not especially witty or eloquent; it seldom is in private societies, or anywhere except in very highflown and ingenious novels. As there was music in the next room, the talk was carried on, of course, in a low and becoming tone, though, for the matter of that, the couple in the next apartment would not have been disturbed had the talking been ever so loud, so occupied were they with their own pursuits.
当两个未婚的人聚在一起，谈论像现在这样微妙的话题时，他们之间很快就会建立起极大的信任和亲密关系。塞德利先生和这位年轻女士之间的谈话无需特别报道；因为从前面的例子可以看出，这次谈话并不是特别机智或雄辩；它很少出现在私人社会中，或者除了在非常夸张和巧妙的小说中之外的任何地方。由于隔壁房间里有音乐，谈话当然是以低沉而恰当的语气进行的，不过，就这一点而言，如果谈话一直这样，隔壁公寓的夫妇就不会受到打扰。他们大声喧哗，忙于自己的追求。

Almost for the first time in his life, Mr. Sedley found himself talking, without the least timidity or hesitation, to a person of the other sex. Miss Rebecca asked him a great number of questions about India, which gave him an opportunity of narrating many interesting anecdotes about that country and himself. He described the balls at Government House, and the manner in which they kept themselves cool in the hot weather, with punkahs, tatties, and other contrivances; and he was very witty regarding the number of Scotchmen whom Lord Minto, the Governor-General, patronised; and then he described a tiger-hunt; and the manner in which the mahout of his elephant had been pulled off his seat by one of the infuriated animals. How delighted Miss Rebecca was at the Government balls, and how she laughed at the stories of the Scotch aides-de-camp, and called Mr. Sedley a sad wicked satirical creature; and how frightened she was Joseph Sedley tete-a-tete with Rebecca, at the drawing-room table, where the latter was occupied in knitting a green silk purse.
塞德利先生几乎是有生以来第一次，毫无胆怯或犹豫地与异性交谈。丽贝卡小姐问了他很多关于印度的问题，这让他有机会讲述许多关于那个国家和他自己的趣闻轶事。他描述了总督府的舞会，以及他们如何在炎热的天气里用蓬卡、玉米饼和其他装置保持凉爽的方式；对于总督明托勋爵所惠顾的苏格兰人的数量，他非常机智。然后他描述了一次狩猎老虎的事；以及他的象夫被一只愤怒的动物从座位上拉下来的方式。丽贝卡小姐在政府舞会上多么高兴，她如何嘲笑苏格兰副官的故事，并称塞德利先生是一个悲伤邪恶的讽刺人物；约瑟夫·塞德利在客厅的桌子上与丽贝卡面对面交谈时，她感到多么害怕，后者正忙着编织一个绿色的丝绸钱包。

‘There is no need to ask family secrets,’ said Miss Sharp. ‘Those two have told theirs.’
“没有必要询问家庭秘密，”夏普小姐说。 “那两个人已经说了他们的事了。”

‘As soon as he gets his company,’ said Joseph, ‘I believe the affair is settled. George Osborne is a capital fellow.’
“一旦他得到了他的陪伴，”约瑟夫说，“我相信这件事就解决了。”乔治·奥斯本是一位资本家。

‘And your sister the dearest creature in the world,’ said Rebecca. ‘Happy the man who wins her!’ With this, Miss Sharp gave a great sigh.
“你的妹妹是世界上最可爱的人，”丽贝卡说。 “赢得她的男人真幸福！”说完，夏普小姐长长地叹了口气。

When two unmarried persons get together, and talk upon such delicate subjects as the present, a great deal of confidence and intimacy is presently established between them. There is no need of giving a special report of the conversation which now took place between Mr. Sedley and the young lady; for the conversation, as may be judged from the foregoing specimen, was not especially witty or eloquent; it seldom is in private societies, or anywhere except in very highflown and ingenious novels. As there was music in the next room, the talk was carried on, of course, in a low and becoming tone, though, for the matter of that, the couple in the next apartment would not have been disturbed had the talking been ever so loud, so occupied were they with their own pursuits.
当两个未婚的人聚在一起，谈论像现在这样微妙的话题时，他们之间很快就会建立起极大的信任和亲密关系。塞德利先生和这位年轻女士之间的谈话无需特别报道；因为从前面的例子可以看出，这次谈话并不是特别机智或雄辩；它很少出现在私人社会中，或者除了在非常夸张和巧妙的小说中之外的任何地方。由于隔壁房间里有音乐，谈话当然是以低沉而恰当的语气进行的，不过，就这一点而言，如果谈话一直这样，隔壁公寓的夫妇就不会受到打扰。他们大声喧哗，忙于自己的追求。

Almost for the first time in his life, Mr. Sedley found himself talking, without the least timidity or hesitation, to a person of the other sex. Miss Rebecca asked him a great number of questions about India, which gave him an opportunity of narrating many interesting anecdotes about that country and himself. He described the balls at Government House, and the manner in which they kept themselves cool in the hot weather, with punkahs, tatties, and other contrivances; and he was very witty regarding the number of Scotchmen whom Lord Minto, the Governor-General, patronised; and then he described a tiger-hunt; and the manner in which the mahout of his elephant had been pulled off his seat by one of the infuriated animals. How delighted Miss Rebecca was at the Government balls, and how she laughed at the stories of the Scotch aides-de-camp, and called Mr. Sedley a sad wicked satirical creature; and how frightened she was at the story of the elephant! ‘For your mother’s sake, dear Mr. Sedley,’ she said, ‘for the sake of all your friends, promise NEVER to go on one of those horrid expeditions.’
塞德利先生几乎是有生以来第一次，毫无胆怯或犹豫地与异性交谈。丽贝卡小姐问了他很多关于印度的问题，这让他有机会讲述许多关于那个国家和他自己的趣闻轶事。他描述了总督府的舞会，以及他们如何在炎热的天气里用蓬卡、玉米饼和其他装置保持凉爽的方式；对于总督明托勋爵所惠顾的苏格兰人的数量，他非常机智。然后他描述了一次狩猎老虎的事；以及他的象夫被一只愤怒的动物从座位上拉下来的方式。丽贝卡小姐在政府舞会上多么高兴，她如何嘲笑苏格兰副官的故事，并称塞德利先生是一个悲伤邪恶的讽刺人物；她对大象的故事感到多么害怕！ “看在你母亲的份上，亲爱的塞德利先生，”她说，“看在你所有朋友的份上，保证永远不再进行那些可怕的探险。”

‘Pooh, pooh, Miss Sharp,’ said he, pulling up his shirt-collars; ‘the danger makes the sport only the pleasanter.’ He had never been but once at a tiger-hunt, when the accident in question occurred, and when he was half killed—not by the tiger, but by the fright. And as he talked on, he grew quite bold, and actually had the audacity to ask Miss Rebecca for whom she was knitting the green silk purse? He was quite surprised and delighted at his own graceful familiar manner.
“呸，呸，夏普小姐，”他一边说，一边拉起衬衫领子。 “危险让这项运动变得更加愉快。”他只参加过一次狩猎老虎的活动，当时发生了有关的事故，当时他被杀了一半——不是被老虎杀了，而是被吓死了。说着说着，他的胆子就大了，竟然敢问丽贝卡小姐，这个绿色的丝质钱包是为谁编织的？他对自己优雅熟悉的举止感到非常惊讶和高兴。

‘For any one who wants a purse,’ replied Miss Rebecca, looking at him in the most gentle winning way. Sedley was going to make one of the most eloquent speeches possible, and had begun—‘O Miss Sharp, how—‘ when some song which was performed in the other room came to an end, and caused him to hear his own voice so distinctly that he stopped, blushed, and blew his nose in great agitation.
“对于任何想要钱包的人来说，”丽贝卡小姐回答道，用最温柔、胜利的眼神看着他。塞德利正要发表一场最雄辩的演讲，当他开始——“哦，夏普小姐，怎么——”时，另一间房间里演奏的一首歌曲结束了，让他清晰地听到了自己的声音他停了下来，脸红了，激动地擤着鼻子。

‘Did you ever hear anything like your brother’s eloquence?’ whispered Mr. Osborne to Amelia. ‘Why, your friend has worked miracles.’
“你有听过像你哥哥那样的口才吗？”奥斯本先生对阿米莉亚低声说道。 “哎呀，你的朋友创造了奇迹。”

‘The more the better,’ said Miss Amelia; who, like almost all women who are worth a pin, was a match-maker in her heart, and would have been delighted that Joseph should carry back a wife to India. She had, too, in the course of this few days’ constant intercourse, warmed into a most tender friendship for Rebecca, and discovered a million of virtues and amiable qualities in her which she had not perceived when they were at Chiswick together. For the affection of young ladies is of as rapid growth as Jack’s bean-stalk, and reaches up to the sky in a night. It is no blame to them that after marriage this Sehnsucht nach der Liebe subsides. It is what sentimentalists, who deal in very big words, call a yearning after the Ideal, and simply means that women are commonly not satisfied until they have husbands and children on whom they may centre affections, which are spent elsewhere, as it were, in small change.
“越多越好，”阿米莉亚小姐说。她像几乎所有有价值的女人一样，在她心里是媒人，如果约瑟夫能把妻子带回印度，她会很高兴的。在这几天不断的交往中，她也对丽贝卡产生了最温柔的友谊，并发现了她身上的一百万种美德和和蔼可亲的品质，这些品质是她在奇西克在一起时所没有意识到的。因为少女们的感情就像杰克的豆秆一样迅速生长，一夜之间就直上了天空。婚后这种不爱的感觉平息下来，这并不怪他们。这就是多愁善感的人所说的对理想的向往，简单地说，妇女通常不会满足，除非她们有了丈夫和孩子，她们可以把感情集中在他们身上，而这些感情可以说是花在了其他地方，在小变化中。

Having expended her little store of songs, or having stayed long enough in the back drawing-room, it now appeared proper to Miss Amelia to ask her friend to sing. ‘You would not have listened to me,’ she said to Mr. Osborne (though she knew she was telling a fib), ‘had you heard Rebecca first.’
阿米莉亚小姐用完了她储存的一点歌曲，或者在后客厅呆了足够长的时间，现在看来，让她的朋友唱歌是合适的。 “如果你先听丽贝卡的话，你就不会听我的，”她对奥斯本先生说（尽管她知道自己在撒谎）。

‘I give Miss Sharp warning, though,’ said Osborne, ‘that, right or wrong, I consider Miss Amelia Sedley the first singer in the world.’
“不过，我向夏普小姐发出警告，”奥斯本说，“无论对错，我认为阿米莉亚·塞德利小姐是世界上第一位歌手。”

‘You shall hear,’ said Amelia; and Joseph Sedley was actually polite enough to carry the candles to the piano. Osborne hinted that he should like quite as well to sit in the dark; but Miss Sedley, laughing, declined to bear him company any farther, and the two accordingly followed Mr. Joseph. Rebecca sang far better than her friend (though of course Osborne was free to keep his opinion), and exerted herself to the utmost, and, indeed, to the wonder of Amelia, who had never known her perform so well. She sang a French song, which Joseph did not understand in the least, and which George confessed he did not understand, and then a number of those simple ballads which were the fashion forty years ago, and in which British tars, our King, poor Susan, blue-eyed Mary, and the like, were the principal themes. They are not, it is said, very brilliant, in a musical point of view, but contain numberless good-natured, simple appeals to the affections, which people understood better than the milk-and-water lagrime, sospiri, and felicita of the eternal Donizettian music with which we are favoured now-a-days.
“你会听到的，”阿米莉亚说。约瑟夫·塞德利实际上很有礼貌，把蜡烛搬到了钢琴上。奥斯本暗示他也应该喜欢坐在黑暗中。但塞德利小姐笑着，拒绝再陪他，两人就跟着约瑟夫先生走了。丽贝卡唱得比她的朋友好得多（尽管奥斯本当然可以自由地保留他的意见），并且竭尽全力，事实上，这让阿米莉亚感到惊讶，她从来没有知道她的表现如此出色。她唱了一首法语歌曲，约瑟夫一点也听不懂，乔治也承认他听不懂，然后又唱了一些四十年前流行的简单歌谣，歌里唱的是英国的塔尔，我们的国王，可怜的人。苏珊、蓝眼睛的玛丽等是主要主题。据说，从音乐的角度来看，它们并不是非常出色，但包含了无数善良、简单的情感诉求，人们比牛奶和水的 lagrime、sospiri 和 felicita 更能理解它们。当今我们所喜爱的永恒的多尼采音乐。

Conversation of a sentimental sort, befitting the subject, was carried on between the songs, to which Sambo, after he had brought the tea, the delighted cook, and even Mrs. Blenkinsop, the housekeeper, condescended to listen on the landing-place.
歌曲之间进行着一种与主题相称的感伤的谈话，桑博端上茶后，高兴的厨师，甚至管家布伦金索普太太，都在着陆点屈尊聆听。

Among these ditties was one, the last of the concert, and to the following effect:
这些小曲中有一首是音乐会的最后一首，其大意如下：

Ah! bleak and barren was the moor, Ah! loud and piercing was the storm, The cottage roof was shelter’d sure, The cottage hearth was bright and warm—An orphan boy the lattice pass’d, And, as he mark’d its cheerful glow, Felt doubly keen the midnight blast, And doubly cold the fallen snow.
啊!荒野荒凉贫瘠，啊！暴风雨大声而刺耳，小屋的屋顶确实得到了庇护，小屋的壁炉明亮而温暖——一个孤儿男孩穿过格子，当他注意到它欢快的光芒时，对午夜的风感到加倍敏锐，雪花加倍寒冷。

They mark’d him as he onward prest, With fainting heart and weary limb; Kind voices bade him turn and rest, And gentle faces welcomed him. The dawn is up—the guest is gone, The cottage hearth is blazing still; Heaven pity all poor wanderers lone! Hark to the wind upon the hill!
当他继续前行时，他们用微弱的心和疲倦的四肢标记了他；亲切的声音叫他转身休息，温柔的面孔欢迎他。天亮了，客人走了，小屋的壁炉仍然熊熊燃烧；上天怜悯所有可怜的孤独的流浪者！聆听山上的风！

It was the sentiment of the before-mentioned words, ‘When I’m gone,’ over again. As she came to the last words, Miss Sharp’s ‘deep-toned voice faltered.’ Everybody felt the allusion to her departure, and to her hapless orphan state. Joseph Sedley, who was fond of music, and soft-hearted, was in a state of ravishment during the performance of the song, and profoundly touched at its conclusion. If he had had the courage; if George and Miss Sedley had remained, according to the former’s proposal, in the farther room, Joseph Sedley’s bachelorhood would have been at an end, and this work would never have been written. But at the close of the ditty, Rebecca quitted the piano, and giving her hand to Amelia, walked away into the front drawing-room twilight; and, at this moment, Mr. Sambo made his appearance with a tray, containing sandwiches, jellies, and some glittering glasses and decanters, on which Joseph Sedley’s attention was immediately fixed. When the parents of the house of Sedley returned from their dinner-party, they found the young people so busy in talking, that they had not heard the arrival of the carriage, and Mr. Joseph was in the act of saying, ‘My dear Miss Sharp, one little teaspoonful of jelly to recruit you after your immense—your—your delightful exertions.’
这是前面提到的“当我离开时”这句话的情感。当夏普小姐说完最后一句话时，她“低沉的声音开始颤抖”。每个人都感受到了她的离开和她不幸的孤儿状态的暗示。热爱音乐、心地善良的约瑟夫·塞德利在演奏这首歌曲的过程中如痴如醉，最后也深受感动。如果他有勇气的话；如果乔治和塞德利小姐按照前者的提议留在更远的房间里，约瑟夫·塞德利的单身生活就会结束，这部作品就永远不会写成。但在小曲结束时，丽贝卡离开了钢琴，把手交给了阿米莉亚，走进了前客厅的暮色中。就在这时，桑博先生端着一个托盘出现了，托盘里有三明治、果冻，还有一些闪闪发光的玻璃杯和醒酒器，约瑟夫·塞德利的注意力立即集中在上面。当塞德利家的父母从晚宴回来时，他们发现年轻人正忙着说话，根本没有听到马车的到来，约瑟夫先生正在说：“亲爱的”夏普小姐，在你巨大的——你的——你令人愉快的努力之后，给你一小茶匙果冻来补充你的能量。

‘Bravo, Jos!’ said Mr. Sedley; on hearing the bantering of which well-known voice, Jos instantly relapsed into an alarmed silence, and quickly took his departure. He did not lie awake all night thinking whether or not he was in love with Miss Sharp; the passion of love never interfered with the appetite or the slumber of Mr. Joseph Sedley; but he thought to himself how delightful it would be to hear such songs as those after Cutcherry—what a distinguee girl she was—how she could speak French better than the GovernorGeneral’s lady herself—and what a sensation she would make at the Calcutta balls. ‘It’s evident the poor devil’s in love with me,’ thought he. ‘She is just as rich as most of the girls who come out to India. I might go farther, and fare worse, egad!’ And in these meditations he fell asleep.
“干得好，乔斯！”塞德利先生说。听到那个熟悉的声音的戏谑声，乔斯立刻陷入了惊慌的沉默中，并迅速离开了。他并没有整晚睡不着，思考自己是否爱上了夏普小姐；爱情的激情从未干扰过约瑟夫·塞德利先生的食欲或睡眠。但他心里想，如果能听到卡奇里之后的歌曲，那该是多么令人高兴啊——她是一个多么杰出的女孩啊——她的法语说得比总督夫人本人还好——而且她会在加尔各答舞会上引起多大的轰动。 “很明显这个可怜的家伙爱上了我，”他想。 “她和大多数来到印度的女孩一样富有。我可能会走得更远，情况会更糟，哎呀！”在这些沉思中，他睡着了。

How Miss Sharp lay awake, thinking, will he come or not to-morrow? need not be told here. To-morrow came, and, as sure as fate, Mr. Joseph Sedley made his appearance before luncheon. He had never been known before to confer such an honour on Russell Square. George Osborne was somehow there already (sadly ‘putting out’ Amelia, who was writing to her twelve dearest friends at Chiswick Mall), and Rebecca was employed upon her yesterday’s work. As Joe’s buggy drove up, and while, after his usual thundering knock and pompous bustle at the door, the ex-Collector of Boggley Wollah laboured up stairs to the drawing-room, knowing glances were telegraphed between Osborne and Miss Sedley, and the pair, smiling archly, looked at Rebecca, who actually blushed as she bent her fair ringlets over her knitting. How her heart beat as Joseph appeared— Joseph, puffing from the staircase in shining creaking boots— Joseph, in a new waistcoat, red with heat and nervousness, and blushing behind his wadded neckcloth. It was a nervous moment for all; and as for Amelia, I think she was more frightened than even the people most concerned.
夏普小姐如何彻夜不眠地躺着，想着他明天会来还是不来？这里不必多说。明天到来了，正如命运所料，约瑟夫·塞德利先生在午餐前出现了。此前，他从未向罗素广场授予如此殊荣。不知怎的，乔治·奥斯本已经在那里了（可悲的是，阿米莉亚正在给奇西克购物中心的十二个最亲爱的朋友写信，可悲的是“赶走了”），而丽贝卡则忙于她昨天的工作。当乔的马车开过来时，在他惯常的雷鸣般的敲门声和浮夸的忙碌之后，博格利·沃拉的前收藏家费力地爬上楼梯，来到客厅，奥斯本和塞德利小姐之间互相交换了心知肚明的眼神，两人狡猾地微笑着，看着丽贝卡，当她把美丽的卷发弯到针织物上时，她实际上脸红了。当约瑟夫出现时，她的心跳得如何——约瑟夫，穿着闪亮的吱吱作响的靴子，气喘吁吁地从楼梯上下来——约瑟夫，穿着一件新背心，因炎热和紧张而红了，在他的棉围巾后面脸红了。这对所有人来说都是一个紧张的时刻。至于阿米莉亚，我认为她比最关心的人还要害怕。

Sambo, who flung open the door and announced Mr. Joseph, followed grinning, in the Collector’s rear, and bearing two handsome nosegays of flowers, which the monster had actually had the gallantry to purchase in Covent Garden Market that morning—they were not as big as the haystacks which ladies carry about with them now-a-days, in cones of filigree paper; but the young women were delighted with the gift, as Joseph presented one to each, with an exceedingly solemn bow.
桑博猛地打开门，宣布约瑟夫先生来了，他在收藏家的后面笑着跟在后面，手里捧着两束漂亮的花束，这些花实际上是怪物那天早上在考文特花园市场慷慨地买来的——它们不像像现在女士们随身携带的干草堆一样大，用金丝纸做成的圆锥体；但年轻的妇女们对这份礼物很高兴，约瑟夫向每人赠送了一份礼物，并极其庄严地鞠了一躬。

‘Bravo, Jos!’ cried Osborne.
“好极了，乔斯！”奥斯本喊道。

‘Thank you, dear Joseph,’ said Amelia, quite ready to kiss her brother, if he were so minded. (And I think for a kiss from such a dear creature as Amelia, I would purchase all Mr. Lee’s conservatories out of hand.)
“谢谢你，亲爱的约瑟夫，”阿米莉亚说，她已经准备好亲吻她的哥哥了，如果他愿意的话。 （我想，为了得到像阿米莉亚这样可爱的人的一个吻，我会立刻买下李先生的所有温室。）

‘O heavenly, heavenly flowers!’ exclaimed Miss Sharp, and smelt them delicately, and held them to her bosom, and cast up her eyes to the ceiling, in an ecstasy of admiration. Perhaps she just looked first into the bouquet, to see whether there was a billet-doux hidden among the flowers; but there was no letter.
“天上的花，天上的花！”夏普小姐惊叹道，她轻轻地闻了闻花香，把它们抱在怀里，眼睛望向天花板，心中充满了狂喜。或许她只是先看了看花束，看看花丛中是否藏着一朵小花。但没有收到信。

‘Do they talk the language of flowers at Boggley Wollah, Sedley?’ asked Osborne, laughing.
“塞德利，博格利沃拉的人会说花语吗？”奥斯本笑着问道。

‘Pooh, nonsense!’ replied the sentimental youth. ‘Bought ‘em at Nathan’s; very glad you like ‘em; and eh, Amelia, my dear, I bought a pine-apple at the same time, which I gave to Sambo. Let’s have it for tiffin; very cool and nice this hot weather.’ Rebecca said she had never tasted a pine, and longed beyond everything to taste one.
“呸，胡说八道！”多愁善感的青年回答道。 “在内森那里买的；”很高兴你喜欢他们；呃，阿米莉亚，亲爱的，我同时买了一个菠萝，送给了桑博。我们吃午饭吧；丽贝卡说她从未尝过松树的味道，但她渴望超越一切去品尝松树。

So the conversation went on. I don’t know on what pretext Osborne left the room, or why, presently, Amelia went away, perhaps to superintend the slicing of the pine-apple; but Jos was left alone with Rebecca, who had resumed her work, and the green silk and the shining needles were quivering rapidly under her white slender fingers.
于是谈话继续进行。我不知道奥斯本以什么借口离开房间，也不知道为什么阿米莉亚现在就走了，也许是去监督切菠萝；但只剩下乔斯和丽贝卡在一起，丽贝卡又继续工作了，绿色的丝绸和闪亮的针在她白皙修长的手指下快速颤动。

‘What a beautiful, BYOO-OOTIFUL song that was you sang last night, dear Miss Sharp,’ said the Collector. ‘It made me cry almost; ‘pon my honour it did.’
“亲爱的夏普小姐，你昨晚唱的歌多么美妙，多么美妙啊，”收藏家说。 “这让我差点哭了； “以我的名誉来说，确实如此。”

‘Because you have a kind heart, Mr. Joseph; all the Sedleys have, I think.’
‘因为你有一颗善良的心，约瑟夫先生；我想塞德利一家都有。

‘It kept me awake last night, and I was trying to hum it this morning, in bed; I was, upon my honour. Gollop, my doctor, came in at eleven (for I’m a sad invalid, you know, and see Gollop every day), and, ‘gad! there I was, singing away like—a robin.’
“昨晚它让我彻夜难眠，今天早上我试图在床上哼着它；以我的名誉担保，我是。戈洛普，我的医生，十一点来了（因为我是一个悲伤的病人，你知道，每天都会见到戈洛普），然后，‘天哪！我在那里，像一只知更鸟一样歌唱。

‘O you droll creature! Do let me hear you sing it.’
‘啊，你这个滑稽的生物！让我听听你唱这首歌吧。

‘Me? No, you, Miss Sharp; my dear Miss Sharp, do sing it.’ ‘Not now, Mr. Sedley,’ said Rebecca, with a sigh. ‘My spirits are not equal to it; besides, I must finish the purse. Will you help me, Mr. Sedley?’ And before he had time to ask how, Mr. Joseph Sedley, of the East India Company’s service, was actually seated tete-a-tete with a young lady, looking at her with a most killing expression; his arms stretched out before her in an imploring attitude, and his hands bound in a web of green silk, which she was unwinding.
'我？不，是你，夏普小姐； “现在不行，塞德利先生，”丽贝卡叹了口气说。 ‘我的精神无法与之匹敌；另外，我必须完成钱包。塞德利先生，你能帮帮我吗？”他还没来得及问，东印度公司服务部的约瑟夫·塞德利先生竟然已经和一位年轻女士坐在一起，用最专注的眼神看着她。杀戮的表情；他的双臂以恳求的姿态伸向她，他的双手被一张绿色的丝网绑着，她正在解开它。

In this romantic position Osborne and Amelia found the interesting pair, when they entered to announce that tiffin was ready. The skein of silk was just wound round the card; but Mr. Jos had never spoken.
在这个浪漫的位置，奥斯本和阿米莉亚发现了这对有趣的情侣，当他们进来宣布午餐准备好了时。丝线刚刚缠绕在卡片上；但乔斯先生从未说过话。

‘I am sure he will to-night, dear,’ Amelia said, as she pressed Rebecca’s hand; and Sedley, too, had communed with his soul, and said to himself, ‘‘Gad, I’ll pop the question at Vauxhall.’
“我相信他今晚会的，亲爱的，”阿米莉亚一边说，一边握住丽贝卡的手。塞德利也与他的灵魂进行了交流，并对自己说：“加德，我会在沃克斯豪尔求婚。”

Chapter V
第五章


Dobbin of Ours
我们的多宾

Cuff’s fight with Dobbin, and the unexpected issue of that contest, will long be remembered by every man who was educated at Dr. Swishtail’s famous school. The latter Youth (who used to be called Heigh-ho Dobbin, Gee-ho Dobbin, and by many other names indicative of puerile contempt) was the quietest, the clumsiest, and, as it seemed, the dullest of all Dr. Swishtail’s young gentlemen. His parent was a grocer in the city: and it was bruited abroad that he was admitted into Dr. Swishtail’s academy upon what are called ‘mutual principles’—that is to say, the expenses of his board and schooling were defrayed by his father in goods, not money; and he stood there—most at the bottom of the school—in his scraggy corduroys and jacket, through the seams of which his great big bones were bursting—as the representative of so many pounds of tea, candles, sugar, mottled-soap, plums (of which a very mild proportion was supplied for the puddings of the establishment), and other commodities. A dreadful day it was for young Dobbin when one of the youngsters of the school, having run into the town upon a poaching excursion for hardbake and polonies, espied the cart of Dobbin & Rudge, Grocers and Oilmen, Thames Street, London, at the Doctor’s door, discharging a cargo of the wares in which the firm dealt.
卡夫与多宾的战斗，以及那场比赛中意想不到的问题，将被每一个在斯威什泰尔博士著名学校接受过教育的人长久铭记。后者（过去被称为“Heigh-ho Dobbin”、“Gee-ho Dobbin”，以及许多其他表示幼稚蔑视的名字）是斯威什泰尔博士所有年轻人中最安静、最笨拙、而且看起来最迟钝的一个。先生们。他的父母是城里的一名杂货商：他被斯威什泰尔博士的学院录取是基于所谓的“相互原则”——也就是说，他的食宿和教育费用是由他的父亲支付的，这在国外受到了很大的伤害。货物，而不是金钱；他站在那儿——在学校的最底层——穿着破烂的灯芯绒和夹克，他的大骨头从接缝中爆裂——代表着那么多磅的茶叶、蜡烛、糖、斑驳的肥皂，李子（其中一小部分用于制作布丁）和其他商品。对于年轻的多宾来说，这是可怕的一天，学校的一个年轻人在一次偷猎之旅中跑进城去买硬面包和波罗尼斯，看到了伦敦泰晤士街杂货店和石油商多宾和拉奇的推车。医生的门口，正在卸掉公司经营的一批货物。

Young Dobbin had no peace after that. The jokes were frightful, and merciless against him. ‘Hullo, Dobbin,’ one wag would say, ‘here’s good news in the paper. Sugars is ris’, my boy.’ Another would set a sum—‘If a pound of mutton-candles cost sevenpence-halfpenny, how much must Dobbin cost?’ and a roar would follow from all the circle of young knaves, usher and all, who rightly considered that the selling of goods by retail is a shameful and infamous practice, meriting the contempt and scorn of all real gentlemen.
从此以后，年轻的多宾就不得安宁了。这些笑话对他来说是可怕的、无情的。 “你好，多宾，”一位爱开玩笑的人会说，“报纸上有好消息。”糖是里斯’，我的孩子。”另一个人会设定一个总价——“如果一磅羊肉蜡烛要花七便士半便士，那么多宾必须花多少钱？所有人都正确地认为，零售销售商品是一种可耻且臭名昭著的行为，值得所有真正的绅士的蔑视和蔑视。

‘Your father’s only a merchant, Osborne,’ Dobbin said in private to the little boy who had brought down the storm upon him. At which the latter replied haughtily, ‘My father’s a gentleman, and keeps his carriage”; and Mr. William Dobbin retreated to a remote outhouse in the playground, where he passed a half-holiday in the bitterest sadness and woe. Who amongst us is there that does not recollect similar hours of bitter, bitter childish grief? Who feels injustice; who shrinks before a slight; who has a sense of wrong so acute, and so glowing a gratitude for kindness, as a generous boy? and how many of those gentle souls do you degrade, estrange, torture, for the sake of a little loose arithmetic, and miserable dog-latin?
“你的父亲只是一个商人，奥斯本，”多宾私下对那个给他带来风暴的小男孩说道。后者傲慢地回答说：“我的父亲是一位绅士，并且保持着他的马车”。威廉·多宾先生则躲到操场上一处偏僻的外屋，在最痛苦的悲伤和痛苦中度过了半个假期。我们中间谁不记得类似的痛苦、痛苦的幼稚悲伤时光？谁感到不公平；谁在轻微的情况下就退缩了；作为一个慷慨的男孩，谁有如此强烈的错误意识，又如此对善良充满感激之情？为了一些松散的算术和可怜的狗拉丁语，你贬低、疏远、折磨了多少温柔的灵魂？

Now, William Dobbin, from an incapacity to acquire the rudiments of the above language, as they are propounded in that wonderful book the Eton Latin Grammar, was compelled to remain among the very last of Doctor Swishtail’s scholars, and was ‘taken down’ continually by little fellows with pink faces and pinafores when he marched up with the lower form, a giant amongst them, with his downcast, stupefied look, his dog’s-eared primer, and his tight corduroys. High and low, all made fun of him. They sewed up those corduroys, tight as they were. They cut his bed-strings. They upset buckets and benches, so that he might break his shins over them, which he never failed to do. They sent him parcels, which, when opened, were found to contain the paternal soap and candles. There was no little fellow but had his jeer and joke at Dobbin; and he bore everything quite patiently, and was entirely dumb and miserable.
现在，威廉·多宾（William Dobbin）由于无法掌握上述语言的基础知识（正如伊顿拉丁文语法那本精彩的书所提出的那样），被迫留在斯威什泰尔博士的最后一批学者中，并不断被“打倒”。当他带着低矮的身躯走上来时，他们被一群粉红色的脸、穿着围裙的小家伙们所吸引，其中一个巨人，他的表情低落、呆呆，穿着狗耳朵的底漆，穿着紧身灯芯绒。上上下下，全都取笑他。他们把那些灯芯绒缝起来，尽管它们很紧。他们割断了他的床绳。他们打翻了水桶和长凳，这样他就可能在上面摔断小腿，而他从来没有失败过。他们给他寄了一些包裹，打开后发现里面有父亲的肥皂和蜡烛。没有一个小家伙会嘲笑多宾。他对一切都非常耐心地承受着，而且完全是愚蠢而痛苦的。

Cuff, on the contrary, was the great chief and dandy of the Swishtail Seminary. He smuggled wine in. He fought the town-boys. Ponies used to come for him to ride home on Saturdays. He had his top-boots in his room, in which he used to hunt in the holidays. He had a gold repeater: and took snuff like the Doctor. He had been to the Opera, and knew the merits of the principal actors, preferring Mr. Kean to Mr. Kemble. He could knock you off forty Latin verses in an hour. He could make French poetry. What else didn’t he know, or couldn’t he do? They said even the Doctor himself was afraid of him.
相反，卡夫是斯威什泰尔神学院的伟大领袖和花花公子。他走私酒进来。他与镇上的男孩打架。每周六，小马都会来接他回家。他的高统靴子放在房间里，假期里他常常穿着它去打猎。他有一把金色的连发仪：并且像医生一样吸鼻烟。他去过歌剧院，了解主要演员的优点，比起肯布尔先生，他更喜欢基恩先生。他可以在一小时内让你念出四十首拉丁诗。他可以创作法语诗歌。还有什么是他不知道或者不能做的？他们说连博士本人都害怕他。

Cuff, the unquestioned king of the school, ruled over his subjects, and bullied them, with splendid superiority. This one blacked his shoes: that toasted his bread, others would fag out, and give him balls at cricket during whole summer afternoons. ‘Figs’ was the fellow whom he despised most, and with whom, though always abusing him, and sneering at him, he scarcely ever condescended to hold personal communication.
卡夫是学派中无可争议的王者，他以极大的优势统治着他的臣民，并欺负他们。这个人把他的鞋子弄黑了：这个人烤了他的面包，其他人会在整个夏天的下午在板球比赛中给他球。 “无花果”是他最鄙视的人，尽管他总是辱骂他、嘲笑他，但他却很少屈尊与他进行私人交流。

One day in private, the two young gentlemen had had a difference. Figs, alone in the schoolroom, was blundering over a home letter; when Cuff, entering, bade him go upon some message, of which tarts were probably the subject.
有一天，私下里，两位年轻先生发生了分歧。无花果独自一人在教室里，正在笨手笨脚地写一封家信。当卡夫进来时，请他继续讲一些信息，其中的主题可能是馅饼。

‘I can’t,’ says Dobbin; ‘I want to finish my letter.’
“我不能，”多宾说。 “我想写完我的信。”

‘You CAN’T?’ says Mr. Cuff, laying hold of that document (in which many words were scratched out, many were mis-spelt, on which had been spent I don’t know how much thought, and labour, and tears; for the poor fellow was writing to his mother, who was fond of him, although she was a grocer’s wife, and lived in a back parlour in Thames Street). ‘You CAN’T?’ says Mr. Cuff: ‘I should like to know why, pray? Can’t you write to old Mother Figs to-morrow?’
“你不能？”卡夫先生说，他抓起那份文件（其中许多单词被涂掉，许多单词拼写错误，我不知道在这份文件上花费了多少心思、劳力和精力）。泪水；因为这个可怜的家伙正在写信给他的母亲，她很喜欢他，尽管她是一位杂货商的妻子，住在泰晤士街的后客厅里）。 “你不能？”卡夫先生说，“我想知道为什么，请问？”你明天不能给老无花果妈妈写信吗？

‘Don’t call names,’ Dobbin said, getting off the bench very nervous.
“别骂人，”多宾说，从替补席上下来时非常紧张。

‘Well, sir, will you go?’ crowed the cock of the school.
“好吧，先生，您要去吗？”学校的公鸡叫道。

‘Put down the letter,’ Dobbin replied; ‘no gentleman readth letterth.’
“把信放下，”多宾回答道。 “没有先生读过信。”

‘Well, NOW will you go?’ says the other.
“好吧，你现在可以走了吗？”另一个说。

‘No, I won’t. Don’t strike, or I’ll THMASH you,’ roars out Dobbin, springing to a leaden inkstand, and looking so wicked, that Mr. Cuff paused, turned down his coat sleeves again, put his hands into his pockets, and walked away with a sneer. But he never meddled personally with the grocer’s boy after that; though we must do him the justice to say he always spoke of Mr. Dobbin with contempt behind his back.
‘不，我不会。 “别打，不然我就打死你。”多宾咆哮道，跳到一个铅墨水台前，看上去很邪恶，卡夫先生停了下来，再次卷起外套袖子，把手插进口袋，走了过去。冷笑而去。但此后他再也没有亲自干涉杂货店的男孩。不过，我们必须公正地说，他总是在背后带着轻蔑的口吻谈论多宾先生。

Some time after this interview, it happened that Mr. Cuff, on a sunshiny afternoon, was in the neighbourhood of poor William Dobbin, who was lying under a tree in the playground, spelling over a favourite copy of the Arabian Nights which he had apart from the rest of the school, who were pursuing their various sports—quite lonely, and almost happy. If people would but leave children to themselves; if teachers would cease to bully them; if parents would not insist upon directing their thoughts, and dominating their feelings—those feelings and thoughts which are a mystery to all (for how much do you and I know of each other, of our children, of our fathers, of our neighbour, and how far more beautiful and sacred are the thoughts of the poor lad or girl whom you govern likely to be, than those of the dull and world-corrupted person who rules him?)—if, I say, parents and masters would leave their children alone a little more, small harm would accrue, although a less quantity of as in praesenti might be acquired.
这次采访结束后不久，一个阳光明媚的下午，卡夫先生来到了可怜的威廉·多宾附近，当时他正躺在操场上的一棵树下，正在拼写一本他最喜欢的《天方夜谭》。学校里的其他人都在从事各种运动——相当孤独，但几乎很快乐。如果人们愿意把孩子留给自己就好了；如果老师不再欺负他们；如果父母不坚持引导他们的思想，控制他们的感情——这些感情和思想对所有人来说都是一个谜（因为你我对彼此、我们的孩子、我们的父亲、我们的邻居、与统治他的愚钝且败坏世界的人相比，你所统治的可怜的小伙子或女孩的思想可能更加美丽和神圣得多？）——我说，如果父母和主人愿意离开他们的父母和主人的话孩子们独自一人多一点，就会产生轻微的伤害，尽管可能会获得较少数量的 praesenti。

Well, William Dobbin had for once forgotten the world, and was away with Sindbad the Sailor in the Valley of Diamonds, or with Prince Ahmed and the Fairy Peribanou in that delightful cavern where the Prince found her, and whither we should all like to make a tour; when shrill cries, as of a little fellow weeping, woke up his pleasant reverie; and looking up, he saw Cuff before him, belabouring a little boy.
好吧，威廉·多宾第一次忘记了这个世界，他和水手辛巴达一起去了钻石谷，或者和艾哈迈德王子和佩里巴努仙女一起去了那个令人愉快的洞穴，王子在那里找到了她，我们都想去那里旅行;当尖锐的哭声，就像一个小家伙在哭泣时，唤醒了他愉快的沉思时；他抬起头，看到卡夫在他面前殴打一个小男孩。

It was the lad who had peached upon him about the grocer’s cart; but he bore little malice, not at least towards the young and small. ‘How dare you, sir, break the bottle?’ says Cuff to the little urchin, swinging a yellow cricket-stump over him.
就是那个小伙子向他说起杂货店的推车的事。但他并没有什么恶意，至少对年轻人和小孩没有恶意。 “先生，你怎么敢打破瓶子？”卡夫对小顽童说道，并在他身上挥舞着一个黄色的蟋蟀残肢。

The boy had been instructed to get over the playground wall (at a selected spot where the broken glass had been removed from the top, and niches made convenient in the brick); to run a quarter of a mile; to purchase a pint of rum-shrub on credit; to brave all the Doctor’s outlying spies, and to clamber back into the playground again; during the performance of which feat, his foot had slipt, and the bottle was broken, and the shrub had been spilt, and his pantaloons had been damaged, and he appeared before his employer a perfectly guilty and trembling, though harmless, wretch.
男孩被指示翻过操场的围墙（在选定的地点，顶部的碎玻璃已被移走，并在砖块中搭建了方便的壁龛）；跑四分之一英里；赊购一品脱朗姆酒；勇敢地面对所有博士的外围间谍，并再次爬回操场；在表演这一壮举的过程中，他的脚滑倒了，瓶子被打破了，灌木被溅了出来，他的马裤也被损坏了，他在雇主面前出现了一个完全有罪和颤抖的可怜虫，尽管他是无害的。

‘How dare you, sir, break it?’ says Cuff; ‘you blundering little thief. You drank the shrub, and now you pretend to have broken the bottle. Hold out your hand, sir.’
“先生，你怎么敢打破它？”卡夫说道。 ‘你这个笨手笨脚的小偷。你喝了灌木丛，现在你假装打破了瓶子。伸出你的手，先生。

Down came the stump with a great heavy thump on the child’s hand. A moan followed. Dobbin looked up. The Fairy Peribanou had fled into the inmost cavern with Prince Ahmed: the Roc had whisked away Sindbad the Sailor out of the Valley of Diamonds out of sight, far into the clouds: and there was everyday life before honest William; and a big boy beating a little one without cause.
树桩掉了下来，孩子的手重重地撞了一下。随之而来的是一声呻吟。多宾抬起头来。仙女佩里巴努和艾哈迈德王子一起逃进了最里面的洞穴：大鹏把水手辛巴达从钻石谷带走，远远地消失在云端：诚实的威廉面前还有日常生活；一个大男孩无缘无故地殴打一个小男孩。

‘Hold out your other hand, sir,’ roars Cuff to his little schoolfellow, whose face was distorted with pain. Dobbin quivered, and gathered himself up in his narrow old clothes.
“伸出你的另一只手，先生，”卡夫对他的小同学吼道，他的脸因痛苦而扭曲。多宾浑身发抖，穿上他那件又窄又旧的衣服。

‘Take that, you little devil!’ cried Mr. Cuff, and down came the wicket again on the child’s hand.—Don’t be horrified, ladies, every boy at a public school has done it. Your children will so do and be done by, in all probability. Down came the wicket again; and Dobbin started up.
“拿着这个，你这个小恶魔！”卡夫先生喊道，小门又落到了孩子的手上。——别害怕，女士们，公立学校的每个男孩都做到了。你的孩子很可能会这样做，并被他们完成。检票口再次落下；多宾开始了。

I can’t tell what his motive was. Torture in a public school is as much licensed as the knout in Russia. It would be ungentlemanlike (in a manner) to resist it. Perhaps Dobbin’s foolish soul revolted against that exercise of tyranny; or perhaps he had a hankering feeling of revenge in his mind, and longed to measure himself against that splendid bully and tyrant, who had all the glory, pride, pomp, circumstance, banners flying, drums beating, guards saluting, in the place. Whatever may have been his incentive, however, up he sprang, and screamed out, ‘Hold off, Cuff; don’t bully that child any more; or I’ll—‘
我不知道他的动机是什么。公立学校中的酷刑与俄罗斯的殴打一样是得到许可的。 （在某种程度上）抵制它是不绅士的行为。也许多宾愚蠢的灵魂反抗这种暴政。也许他心中有一种渴望复仇的感觉，渴望与那个辉煌的恶霸和暴君一较高下，他在这个地方拥有所有的荣耀，骄傲，排场，环境，旗帜飘扬，鼓声敲响，卫兵行礼。然而，不管他的动机是什么，他跳了起来，尖叫道：“站住，卡夫；快点！”不要再欺负那个孩子了；或者我会——”

‘Or you’ll what?’ Cuff asked in amazement at this interruption. ‘Hold out your hand, you little beast.’
“或者你会怎样？”卡夫对这种打扰感到惊讶地问道。 “伸出你的手，你这个小野兽。”

‘I’ll give you the worst thrashing you ever had in your life,’ Dobbin said, in reply to the first part of Cuff’s sentence; and little Osborne, gasping and in tears, looked up with wonder and incredulity at seeing this amazing champion put up suddenly to defend him: while Cuff’s astonishment was scarcely less. Fancy our late monarch George III when he heard of the revolt of the North American colonies: fancy brazen Goliath when little David stepped forward and claimed a meeting; and you have the feelings of Mr. Reginald Cuff when this rencontre was proposed to him.
“我会给你一生中最狠的鞭打，”多宾在回答卡夫句子的第一部分时说道；小奥斯本气喘吁吁，泪流满面，他抬起头，惊讶而难以置信地看到这位令人惊叹的冠军突然站起来为他辩护：而卡夫的惊讶也同样如此。想象一下我们已故的君主乔治三世听到北美殖民地叛乱的消息；想象一下小大卫挺身而出并要求会面时厚颜无耻的歌利亚；想象一下当小大卫站出来要求会面时，厚颜无耻的歌利亚；想象一下当他听到北美殖民地起义时的情景；想象一下当小大卫挺身而出并要求会面时，厚颜无耻的歌利亚；想象一下当他听到北美殖民地的叛乱时，想象一下我们已故的君主乔治三世。当雷金纳德·卡夫先生向他提出这次会面时，你会有同样的感受。

‘After school,’ says he, of course; after a pause and a look, as much as to say, ‘Make your will, and communicate your last wishes to your friends between this time and that.’
“放学后，”他当然说。停顿了一下，看了一眼，就像是在说，“立下你的遗嘱，并在此时和彼时向你的朋友传达你最后的愿望。”

‘As you please,’ Dobbin said. ‘You must be my bottle holder, Osborne.’
“随你便，”多宾说。 “你一定是我的瓶子持有者，奥斯本。”

‘Well, if you like,’ little Osborne replied; for you see his papa kept a carriage, and he was rather ashamed of his champion.
“好吧，如果你愿意的话，”小奥斯本回答道。因为你看他的爸爸有一辆马车，他对他的冠军感到相当羞愧。

Yes, when the hour of battle came, he was almost ashamed to say, ‘Go it, Figs”; and not a single other boy in the place uttered that cry for the first two or three rounds of this famous combat; at the commencement of which the scientific Cuff, with a contemptuous smile on his face, and as light and as gay as if he was at a ball, planted his blows upon his adversary, and floored that unlucky champion three times running. At each fall there was a cheer; and everybody was anxious to have the honour of offering the conqueror a knee.
是的，当战斗的时刻到来时，他几乎羞于说：“加油，无花果”；在这场著名的战斗的前两三轮比赛中，这个地方没有一个男孩发出这样的叫声。比赛开始时，科学的卡夫脸上带着轻蔑的微笑，轻松愉快，就像在参加舞会一样，向他的对手发起了猛烈的攻击，连续三次将那个不幸的冠军击倒在地。每逢秋天，都会有一阵欢呼声。每个人都渴望有幸向征服者屈膝。

‘What a licking I shall get when it’s over,’ young Osborne thought, picking up his man. ‘You’d best give in,’ he said to Dobbin; ‘it’s only a thrashing, Figs, and you know I’m used to it.’ But Figs, all whose limbs were in a quiver, and whose nostrils were breathing rage, put his little bottle-holder aside, and went in for a fourth time.
“当这一切结束后，我会感到多么痛苦啊，”年轻的奥斯本一边想，一边抱起他的人。 “你最好屈服，”他对多宾说。 “这只是一次殴打，无花果，你知道我已经习惯了。”但是无花果的四肢都在颤抖，鼻孔里充满了愤怒，他把他的小瓶架放在一边，走进去打了一顿。第四次。

As he did not in the least know how to parry the blows that were aimed at himself, and Cuff had begun the attack on the three preceding occasions, without ever allowing his enemy to strike, Figs now determined that he would commence the engagement by a charge on his own part; and accordingly, being a left-handed man, brought that arm into action, and hit out a couple of times with all his might— once at Mr. Cuff’s left eye, and once on his beautiful Roman nose.
由于他根本不知道如何招架针对自己的攻击，而卡夫在之前的三次攻击中都没有让敌人发动攻击，因此无花果现在决定以一个由他自己负责；因此，作为一个左撇子，他用了那只手臂，用尽全力击打了几次——一次打在卡夫先生的左眼上，一次打在他美丽的罗马鼻子上。

Cuff went down this time, to the astonishment of the assembly. ‘Well hit, by Jove,’ says little Osborne, with the air of a connoisseur, clapping his man on the back. ‘Give it him with the left, Figs my boy.’
这一次，卡夫倒下了，令在场的人都大吃一惊。 “天哪，打得好。”小奥斯本用鉴赏家的神气拍着他男人的背说道。 “用左手给他，无花果我的孩子。”

Figs’s left made terrific play during all the rest of the combat. Cuff went down every time. At the sixth round, there were almost as many fellows shouting out, ‘Go it, Figs,’ as there were youths exclaiming, ‘Go it, Cuff.’ At the twelfth round the latter champion was all abroad, as the saying is, and had lost all presence of mind and power of attack or defence. Figs, on the contrary, was as calm as a quaker. His face being quite pale, his eyes shining open, and a great cut on his underlip bleeding profusely, gave this young fellow a fierce and ghastly air, which perhaps struck terror into many spectators. Nevertheless, his intrepid adversary prepared to close for the thirteenth time.
无花果的左手在剩下的战斗中表现出色。袖口每次都会下降。在第六轮比赛中，几乎有很多人喊着“加油，无花果”，也有很多年轻人喊道：“加油，卡夫。”在第十二轮比赛中，后者的冠军都在国外，俗话说：并失去了所有的理智和攻击力或防御力。相反，无花果却像贵格会教徒一样平静。他的脸色苍白，眼睛睁得大大的，下唇上有一道大口子，鲜血直流，这年轻人给人一种凶恶阴森的感觉，恐怕让很多人都感到害怕。然而，他勇敢的对手第十三次准备结束。

If I had the pen of a Napier, or a Bell’s Life, I should like to describe this combat properly. It was the last charge of the Guard— (that is, it would have been, only Waterloo had not yet taken place)—it was Ney’s column breasting the hill of La Haye Sainte, bristling with ten thousand bayonets, and crowned with twenty eagles—it was the shout of the beef-eating British, as leaping down the hill they rushed to hug the enemy in the savage arms of battle— in other words, Cuff coming up full of pluck, but quite reeling and groggy, the Fig-merchant put in his left as usual on his adversary’s nose, and sent him down for the last time.
如果我有纳皮尔的笔，或者贝尔的笔，我想正确地描述这场战斗。这是近卫军的最后一次冲锋——（也就是说，应该是这样，只是滑铁卢尚未发生）——奈伊的纵队横亘在拉海圣山上，身上挂着一万把刺刀，头戴二十只鹰。 ——这是吃牛肉的英国人的喊声，他们从山上跳下来，用野蛮的战斗方式拥抱敌人——换句话说，卡夫充满勇气，但相当摇摇欲坠，昏昏沉沉，无花果——商人像往常一样用左手抵住对手的鼻子，最后一次把他打倒了。

‘I think that will do for him,’ Figs said, as his opponent dropped as neatly on the green as I have seen Jack Spot’s ball plump into the pocket at billiards; and the fact is, when time was called, Mr. Reginald Cuff was not able, or did not choose, to stand up again.
“我认为这对他来说会有所帮助，”菲格斯说道，同时他的对手在果岭上的落球就像我在台球比赛中看到的杰克·斯波特（Jack Spot）的球落入袋中一样干净利落。事实是，当时间到了时，雷金纳德·卡夫先生无法，或者说没有选择再次站起来。

And now all the boys set up such a shout for Figs as would have made you think he had been their darling champion through the whole battle; and as absolutely brought Dr. Swishtail out of his study, curious to know the cause of the uproar. He threatened to flog Figs violently, of course; but Cuff, who had come to himself by this time, and was washing his wounds, stood up and said, ‘It’s my fault, sir—not Figs’—not Dobbin’s. I was bullying a little boy; and he served me right.’ By which magnanimous speech he not only saved his conqueror a whipping, but got back all his ascendancy over the boys which his defeat had nearly cost him.
现在，所有的男孩都对无花果大声喊叫，让你以为他是整场战斗中他们亲爱的冠军。斯威什泰尔博士也因此离开了他的书房，他好奇地想知道引起骚动的原因。当然，他威胁要猛烈地鞭打无花果。但卡夫此时已经清醒过来，正在清洗伤口，站起来说：“这是我的错，先生，不是无花果”——不是多宾的错。我欺负一个小男孩；他为我服务是对的。”通过这番慷慨的演讲，他不仅让他的征服者免遭鞭打，而且还恢复了他对男孩们的所有优势，而他的失败几乎让他失去了优势。

Young Osborne wrote home to his parents an account of the transaction.
年轻的奥斯本给他的父母写了一份关于这次交易的报告。

Sugarcane House, Richmond, March, 18—
甘蔗屋，里士满，2018 年 3 月——

DEAR MAMA,—I hope you are quite well. I should be much obliged to you to send me a cake and five shillings. There has been a fight here between Cuff & Dobbin. Cuff, you know, was the Cock of the School. They fought thirteen rounds, and Dobbin Licked. So Cuff is now Only Second Cock. The fight was about me. Cuff was licking me for breaking a bottle of milk, and Figs wouldn’t stand it. We call him Figs because his father is a Grocer—Figs & Rudge, Thames St., City—I think as he fought for me you ought to buy your Tea & Sugar at his father’s. Cuff goes home every Saturday, but can’t this, because he has 2 Black Eyes. He has a white Pony to come and fetch him, and a groom in livery on a bay mare. I wish my Papa would let me have a Pony, and I am
亲爱的妈妈，——我希望你一切都好。我非常感谢你寄给我一块蛋糕和五先令。卡夫和多宾在这里发生过一场战斗。你知道，卡夫是学校里的公鸡。他们打了十三回合，多宾败下阵来。所以袖口现在是唯一的第二个鸡巴。这场战斗是关于我的。卡夫因为我打破了一瓶牛奶而批评我，无花果无法忍受。我们叫他无花果，因为他的父亲是一位杂货商——Figs & Rudge，泰晤士街，城市——我想当他为我而战时，你应该在他父亲的商店买你的茶和糖。卡夫每周六回家，但不能这样，因为他有两个黑眼圈。他有一匹白色小马来接他，还有一位身穿制服、骑着一匹海湾母马的马夫。我希望我的爸爸能让我养一匹小马，我就是

Your dutiful Son, GEORGE SEDLEY OSBORNE
您孝顺的儿子，乔治·塞德利·奥斯本

P.S.—Give my love to little Emmy. I am cutting her out a Coach in cardboard. Please not a seed-cake, but a plum-cake.
P.S.——将我的爱献给小艾美。我正在用纸板给她剪出一件蔻驰。请不是种子蛋糕，而是李子蛋糕。

In consequence of Dobbin’s victory, his character rose prodigiously in the estimation of all his schoolfellows, and the name of Figs, which had been a byword of reproach, became as respectable and popular a nickname as any other in use in the school. ‘After all, it’s not his fault that his father’s a grocer,’ George Osborne said, who, though a little chap, had a very high popularity among the Swishtail youth; and his opinion was received with great applause. It was voted low to sneer at Dobbin about this accident of birth. ‘Old Figs’ grew to be a name of kindness and endearment; and the sneak of an usher jeered at him no longer.
由于多宾的胜利，他的品格在所有同学的评价中得到了惊人的提高，而无花果这个名字，这个曾经是责备的代名词，变成了像学校里使用的任何其他绰号一样受人尊敬和流行的绰号。 “毕竟，他父亲是一名杂货商，这并不是他的错，”乔治·奥斯本说道。他的意见得到了热烈的掌声。嘲笑多宾这次出生事故的票数很低。 “老无花果”逐渐成为一个充满友善和爱意的名字。引座员不再偷偷地嘲笑他。

And Dobbin’s spirit rose with his altered circumstances. He made wonderful advances in scholastic learning. The superb Cuff himself, at whose condescension Dobbin could only blush and wonder, helped him on with his Latin verses; ‘coached’ him in play-hours: carried him triumphantly out of the little-boy class into the middle-sized form; and even there got a fair place for him. It was discovered, that although dull at classical learning, at mathematics he was uncommonly quick. To the contentment of all he passed third in algebra, and got a French prize-book at the public Midsummer examination. You should have seen his mother’s face when Telemaque (that delicious romance) was presented to him by the Doctor in the face of the whole school and the parents and company, with an inscription to Gulielmo Dobbin. All the boys clapped hands in token of applause and sympathy. His blushes, his stumbles, his awkwardness, and the number of feet which he crushed as he went back to his place, who shall describe or calculate? Old Dobbin, his father, who now respected him for the first time, gave him two guineas publicly; most of which he spent in a general tuck-out for the school: and he came back in a tail-coat after the holidays.
多宾的精神随着环境的改变而振奋。他在学业上取得了惊人的进步。出色的卡夫本人帮助多宾写了拉丁诗，看到他的居高临下，多宾只能脸红和纳闷。在玩耍时“指导”他：成功地将他从小男孩班级带入中等身材；甚至还有一个公平的位置给他。人们发现，尽管他在古典学习方面很迟钝，但在数学方面他却异常敏捷。令所有人感到满意的是，他在代数方面取得了第三名，并在公开的仲夏考试中获得了一本法国奖书。当博士当着全校、家长和公司的面向他展示《泰勒玛克》（那段美妙的浪漫故事）时，你应该看看他母亲的脸，上面有古列尔莫·多宾的题词。所有的男孩都拍手表示掌声和同情。他的脸红，他的踉跄，他的笨拙，还有他回到自己的位置时踩碎的脚数，谁来描述或计算？他的父亲老多宾现在第一次尊重他，公开给了他两基尼；大部分时间他都花在了学校的小食上：假期结束后他穿着燕尾服回来了。

Dobbin was much too modest a young fellow to suppose that this happy change in all his circumstances arose from his own generous and manly disposition: he chose, from some perverseness, to attribute his good fortune to the sole agency and benevolence of little George Osborne, to whom henceforth he vowed such a love and affection as is only felt by children—such an affection, as we read in the charming fairy-book, uncouth Orson had for splendid young Valentine his conqueror. He flung himself down at little Osborne’s feet, and loved him. Even before they were acquainted, he had admired Osborne in secret. Now he was his valet, his dog, his man Friday. He believed Osborne to be the possessor of every perfection, to be the handsomest, the bravest, the most active, the cleverest, the most generous of created boys. He shared his money with him: bought him uncountable presents of knives, pencil-cases, gold seals, toffee, Little Warblers, and romantic books, with large coloured pictures of knights and robbers, in many of which latter you might read inscriptions to George Sedley Osborne, Esquire, from his attached friend William Dobbin—the which tokens of homage George received very graciously, as became his superior merit.
多宾是一个太谦虚的年轻人，不会认为他所有情况的这种幸福变化源于他自己的慷慨和男子气概：他选择，出于某种乖僻，将他的好运归功于小乔治·奥斯本的唯一代理和仁慈，从此以后，他向她发誓，这种爱和感情只有孩子们才能感受到——这种感情，正如我们在迷人的童话书中读到的那样，粗野的奥森对辉煌的年轻瓦伦丁有他的征服者。他扑倒在小奥斯本的脚下，爱他。甚至在他们认识之前，他就暗地里崇拜奥斯本。现在他是他的贴身男仆、他的狗、他的男人星期五。他相信奥斯本拥有一切完美，是最英俊、最勇敢、最活跃、最聪明、最慷慨的男孩。他与他分享了他的钱：给他买了无数的礼物，包括刀子、铅笔盒、金印、太妃糖、小莺和浪漫的书籍，其中有骑士和强盗的大幅彩色图片，在后者中你可能会读到乔治的铭文塞德利·奥斯本（Sedley Osborne），《绅士》，来自他的好友威廉·多宾（William Dobbin）——乔治非常慷慨地收到了这份敬意信物，这也成为了他的卓越功绩。

So that Lieutenant Osborne, when coming to Russell Square on the day of the Vauxhall party, said to the ladies, ‘Mrs. Sedley, Ma’am, I hope you have room; I’ve asked Dobbin of ours to come and dine here, and go with us to Vauxhall. He’s almost as modest as Jos.’
因此，奥斯本中尉在沃克斯豪尔聚会那天来到罗素广场时，对女士们说：“夫人。”塞德利，女士，我希望您有空位；我邀请我们的多宾来这里吃饭，然后和我们一起去沃克斯豪尔。他几乎和乔斯一样谦虚。

‘Modesty! pooh,’ said the stout gentleman, casting a vainqueur look at Miss Sharp.
'谦虚！呸，”胖胖的绅士说道，虚荣地看了夏普小姐一眼。

‘He is—but you are incomparably more graceful, Sedley,’ Osborne added, laughing. ‘I met him at the Bedford, when I went to look for you; and I told him that Miss Amelia was come home, and that we were all bent on going out for a night’s pleasuring; and that Mrs. Sedley had forgiven his breaking the punch-bowl at the child’s party. Don’t you remember the catastrophe, Ma’am, seven years ago?’
“他是——但你要优雅得多，塞德利，”奥斯本笑着补充道。 “当我去找你时，我在贝德福德遇见了他；我告诉他阿米莉亚小姐回家了，我们都想出去玩一晚。塞德利夫人原谅了他在孩子的聚会上打碎了潘趣酒碗。女士，您不记得七年前的那场灾难吗？

‘Over Mrs. Flamingo’s crimson silk gown,’ said good-natured Mrs. Sedley. ‘What a gawky it was! And his sisters are not much more graceful. Lady Dobbin was at Highbury last night with three of them. Such figures! my dears.’
“在火烈鸟夫人的深红色丝绸礼服上，”和蔼可亲的塞德利夫人说道。 ‘真是笨拙啊！而他的姐妹们也并不优雅多少。昨晚，多宾女士和他们三人一起在海布里。这样的数字！我亲爱的。

‘The Alderman’s very rich, isn’t he?’ Osborne said archly. ‘Don’t you think one of the daughters would be a good spec for me, Ma’am?’
“市议员很有钱，不是吗？”奥斯本调皮地说。 “女士，您不认为其中一个女儿很适合我吗？”

‘You foolish creature! Who would take you, I should like to know, with your yellow face?’
‘你这个愚蠢的生物！我想知道，谁会带走你这张黄脸？

‘Mine a yellow face? Stop till you see Dobbin. Why, he had the yellow fever three times; twice at Nassau, and once at St. Kitts.’
‘我的脸是黄的？停下来直到你看到多宾。哎呀，他得了三次黄热病；两次在拿骚，一次在圣基茨。

‘Well, well; yours is quite yellow enough for us. Isn’t it, Emmy?’ Mrs. Sedley said: at which speech Miss Amelia only made a smile and a blush; and looking at Mr. George Osborne’s pale interesting countenance, and those beautiful black, curling, shining whiskers, which the young gentleman himself regarded with no ordinary complacency, she thought in her little heart that in His Majesty’s army, or in the wide world, there never was such a face or such a hero. ‘I don’t care about Captain Dobbin’s complexion,’ she said, ‘or about his awkwardness. I shall always like him, I know,’ her little reason being, that he was the friend and champion of George.
'好吧;你的颜色对我们来说足够黄了。不是吗，艾美？”塞德利夫人说。阿米莉亚小姐在讲话中只是微笑了一下，脸红了。看着乔治·奥斯本先生那张苍白而有趣的面容，还有那些美丽的、黑色的、卷曲的、闪闪发亮的胡须，这位年轻的绅士本人对这些胡须的看法绝非一般的自满，她在她小小的心里想，在国王陛下的军队里，或者在广阔的世界里，从来没有这样的面孔或这样的英雄。 “我不在乎多宾船长的肤色，”她说，“也不在乎他的笨拙。我知道，我将永远喜欢他，”她的小理由是，他是乔治的朋友和支持者。

‘There’s not a finer fellow in the service,’ Osborne said, ‘nor a better officer, though he is not an Adonis, certainly.’ And he looked towards the glass himself with much naivete; and in so doing, caught Miss Sharp’s eye fixed keenly upon him, at which he blushed a little, and Rebecca thought in her heart, ‘Ah, mon beau Monsieur! I think I have YOUR gauge’—the little artful minx!
“军队中没有比他更好的人了，”奥斯本说，“也没有比他更好的军官了，尽管他当然不是阿多尼斯。”他天真地看着镜子。这时，夏普小姐的目光敏锐地盯着他，他的脸微微红了，丽贝卡心里想：“啊，亲爱的先生！”我想我有你的标准’——这个狡猾的小姑娘！

That evening, when Amelia came tripping into the drawing-room in a white muslin frock, prepared for conquest at Vauxhall, singing like a lark, and as fresh as a rose—a very tall ungainly gentleman, with large hands and feet, and large ears, set off by a closely cropped head of black hair, and in the hideous military frogged coat and cocked hat of those times, advanced to meet her, and made her one of the clumsiest bows that was ever performed by a mortal.
那天晚上，当阿米莉亚穿着一件白色的棉布连衣裙，轻快地走进客厅，准备征服沃克斯豪尔，像百灵鸟一样唱歌，像玫瑰一样新鲜时——一位身材高大、笨拙的绅士，手脚很大，眼睛很大。耳朵被一头剪得很短的黑发衬托出来，穿着当时丑陋的军用青蛙外套，戴着当时的三角帽，向前迎接她，使她成为凡人中最笨拙的鞠躬之一。

This was no other than Captain William Dobbin, of His Majesty’s Regiment of Foot, returned from yellow fever, in the West Indies, to which the fortune of the service had ordered his regiment, whilst so many of his gallant comrades were reaping glory in the Peninsula.
这不是别人，正是国王陛下步兵团的威廉·多宾上尉，他从西印度群岛的黄热病中归来，服役的命运命令他的团前往那里，而他的许多英勇的战友正在那里收获荣耀。半岛。

He had arrived with a knock so very timid and quiet that it was inaudible to the ladies upstairs: otherwise, you may be sure Miss Amelia would never have been so bold as to come singing into the room. As it was, the sweet fresh little voice went right into the Captain’s heart, and nestled there. When she held out her hand for him to shake, before he enveloped it in his own, he paused, and thought—‘Well, is it possible—are you the little maid I remember in the pink frock, such a short time ago—the night I upset the punch-bowl, just after I was gazetted? Are you the little girl that George Osborne said should marry him? What a blooming young creature you seem, and what a prize the rogue has got!’ All this he thought, before he took Amelia’s hand into his own, and as he let his cocked hat fall.
他敲门声非常胆怯和安静，楼上的女士们听不见：否则，你可以确信阿米莉亚小姐绝不会如此大胆地唱歌走进房间。事实上，那甜美清新的小声音直接进入了船长的心里，并依偎在那里。当她伸出手与他握手时，他停下来，想了想——“嗯，有可能吗——你就是我记忆中那个穿着粉红色连衣裙的小女仆吗？就在不久前——”就在我被公报公布之后，我打翻了潘趣酒碗的那天晚上？你是乔治·奥斯本说应该嫁给他的那个小女孩吗？你看起来是多么年轻的生物啊，这个盗贼得到了多么大的奖品啊！”他这样想着，然后握住阿米莉亚的手，放下三角帽。

His history since he left school, until the very moment when we have the pleasure of meeting him again, although not fully narrated, has yet, I think, been indicated sufficiently for an ingenious reader by the conversation in the last page. Dobbin, the despised grocer, was Alderman Dobbin—Alderman Dobbin was Colonel of the City Light Horse, then burning with military ardour to resist the French Invasion. Colonel Dobbin’s corps, in which old Mr. Osborne himself was but an indifferent corporal, had been reviewed by the Sovereign and the Duke of York; and the colonel and alderman had been knighted. His son had entered the army: and young Osborne followed presently in the same regiment. They had served in the West Indies and in Canada. Their regiment had just come home, and the attachment of Dobbin to George Osborne was as warm and generous now as it had been when the two were schoolboys.
从他离开学校到我们有幸再次见到他的那一刻，他的经历虽然没有完全叙述，但我认为，对于聪明的读者来说，最后一页的对话已经足以说明这一点。多宾，那个被鄙视的杂货商，就是市议员多宾——市议员多宾是城市轻骑兵的上校，当时满怀军事热情抵抗法国的入侵。多宾上校的部队接受了君主和约克公爵的检阅，而老奥斯本先生本人在其中也不过是一名冷漠的下士。上校和市议员都被封为爵士。他的儿子参军了，年轻的奥斯本也加入了同一个团。他们曾在西印度群岛和加拿大服役。他们的团刚刚回家，多宾对乔治·奥斯本的依恋现在像两人还是学生时一样热情而慷慨。

So these worthy people sat down to dinner presently. They talked about war and glory, and Boney and Lord Wellington, and the last Gazette. In those famous days every gazette had a victory in it, and the two gallant young men longed to see their own names in the glorious list, and cursed their unlucky fate to belong to a regiment which had been away from the chances of honour. Miss Sharp kindled with this exciting talk, but Miss Sedley trembled and grew quite faint as she heard it. Mr. Jos told several of his tiger-hunting stories, finished the one about Miss Cutler and Lance the surgeon; helped Rebecca to everything on the table, and himself gobbled and drank a great deal.
于是，这些可敬的人很快就坐下来吃晚饭了。他们谈论战争和荣耀、博尼和威灵顿勋爵，以及最后的公报。在那些著名的日子里，每份公报都刊登了胜利，这两个英勇的年轻人渴望在光荣的名单上看到自己的名字，并诅咒自己的不幸命运属于一个远离荣誉机会的军团。夏普小姐听了这激动人心的演讲，兴奋不已，但塞德利小姐听了却浑身发抖，甚至昏倒了。乔斯先生讲述了他的几个猎虎故事，完成了关于卡特勒小姐和外科医生兰斯的故事；丽贝卡帮丽贝卡吃完了桌上的所有东西，而他自己则狼吞虎咽地喝了很多酒。

He sprang to open the door for the ladies, when they retired, with the most killing grace—and coming back to the table, filled himself bumper after bumper of claret, which he swallowed with nervous rapidity.
当女士们退下后，他以最致命的优雅，跳起来为她们开门——然后回到桌边，给自己斟满了一杯又一杯的红葡萄酒，他紧张地快速吞咽下去。

‘He’s priming himself,’ Osborne whispered to Dobbin, and at length the hour and the carriage arrived for Vauxhall.
“他正在准备，”奥斯本低声对多宾说道，时间终于到了，马车也到了前往沃克斯豪尔的地方。

Chapter VI
第六章


Vauxhall
沃克斯豪尔

I know that the tune I am piping is a very mild one (although there are some terrific chapters coming presently), and must beg the goodnatured reader to remember that we are only discoursing at present about a stockbroker’s family in Russell Square, who are taking walks, or luncheon, or dinner, or talking and making love as people do in common life, and without a single passionate and wonderful incident to mark the progress of their loves. The argument stands thus—Osborne, in love with Amelia, has asked an old friend to dinner and to Vauxhall—Jos Sedley is in love with Rebecca. Will he marry her? That is the great subject now in hand.
我知道我吹奏的曲子是一首非常温和的曲子（尽管即将推出一些很棒的章节），并且必须恳求善良的读者记住，我们目前只是在谈论罗素广场的一个股票经纪人家庭，他们正在接受或散步，或午餐，或晚餐，或聊天，做爱，就像人们在日常生活中所做的那样，没有任何一个激情而美妙的事件来标志着他们的爱情的进展。论证是这样的——奥斯本爱上了阿米莉亚，邀请一位老朋友共进晚餐并去了沃克斯豪尔——乔斯·塞德利爱上了丽贝卡。他会娶她吗？这是我们现在面临的重大课题。

We might have treated this subject in the genteel, or in the romantic, or in the facetious manner. Suppose we had laid the scene in Grosvenor Square, with the very same adventures—would not some people have listened? Suppose we had shown how Lord Joseph Sedley fell in love, and the Marquis of Osborne became attached to Lady Amelia, with the full consent of the Duke, her noble father: or instead of the supremely genteel, suppose we had resorted to the entirely low, and described what was going on in Mr. Sedley’s kitchen—how black Sambo was in love with the cook (as indeed he was), and how he fought a battle with the coachman in her behalf; how the knife-boy was caught stealing a cold shoulder of mutton, and Miss Sedley’s new femme de chambre refused to go to bed without a wax candle; such incidents might be made to provoke much delightful laughter, and be supposed to represent scenes of ‘life.’ Or if, on the contrary, we had taken a fancy for the terrible, and made the lover of the new femme de chambre a professional burglar, who bursts into the house with his band, slaughters black Sambo at the feet of his master, and carries off Amelia in her night-dress, not to be let loose again till the third volume, we should easily have constructed a tale of thrilling interest, through the fiery chapters of which the reader should hurry, panting. But my readers must hope for no such romance, only a homely story, and must be content with a chapter about Vauxhall, which is so short that it scarce deserves to be called a chapter at all. And yet it is a chapter, and a very important one too. Are not there little chapters in everybody’s life, that seem to be nothing, and yet affect all the rest of the history?
我们可能会以优雅、浪漫或滑稽的方式来处理这个话题。假设我们把场景放在格罗夫纳广场，经历同样的冒险——难道不会有人听吗？假设我们展示了约瑟夫·塞德利勋爵如何坠入爱河，奥斯本侯爵如何在她高贵的父亲公爵公爵的完全同意下与阿米莉亚女士结下不解之缘：或者假设我们没有采用极其优雅的方式，而是采用了完全低下的方式，并描述了塞德利先生厨房里发生的事情——黑人桑博如何爱上了厨师（他确实是这样），以及他如何为她与车夫打架；刀童偷吃冷肩肉时被抓，塞德利小姐的新贵妇人拒绝在没有蜡烛的情况下上床睡觉；此类事件可能会引起许多愉快的笑声，并被认为代表了“生活”的场景。或者，相反，如果我们喜欢可怕的事情，并让新的女士的情人成为职业人士窃贼带着他的乐队冲进房子，在他主人的脚下屠杀了黑桑博，并带走了穿着睡衣的阿米莉亚，直到第三卷才再次释放，我们应该很容易构建一个故事令人兴奋的兴趣，读者应该气喘吁吁地匆匆读完那些火热的章节。但我的读者们一定不希望看到这样的浪漫，只希望看到一个家常的故事，并且一定会对关于沃克斯豪尔的一章感到满意，因为它太短了，根本不值得被称为一章。但这是一章，而且也是非常重要的一章。每个人的生命中不都有一些看似微不足道的小章节，却影响着整个历史吗？

Let us then step into the coach with the Russell Square party, and be off to the Gardens. There is barely room between Jos and Miss Sharp, who are on the front seat. Mr. Osborne sitting bodkin opposite, between Captain Dobbin and Amelia.
然后，让我们带着罗素广场派对一起登上巴士，前往花园。坐在前排的乔斯和夏普小姐之间几乎没有空间。奥斯本先生坐在博金对面，在多宾船长和阿米莉亚之间。

Every soul in the coach agreed that on that night Jos would propose to make Rebecca Sharp Mrs. Sedley. The parents at home had acquiesced in the arrangement, though, between ourselves, old Mr. Sedley had a feeling very much akin to contempt for his son. He said he was vain, selfish, lazy, and effeminate. He could not endure his airs as a man of fashion, and laughed heartily at his pompous braggadocio stories. ‘I shall leave the fellow half my property,’ he said; ‘and he will have, besides, plenty of his own; but as I am perfectly sure that if you, and I, and his sister were to die to-morrow, he would say ‘Good Gad!’ and eat his dinner just as well as usual, I am not going to make myself anxious about him. Let him marry whom he likes. It’s no affair of mine.’
车厢里的每个人都同意那天晚上乔斯会提议让丽贝卡·夏普成为塞德利夫人。家里的父母默许了这个安排，不过，在我们之间，老塞德利先生有一种非常类似于蔑视他儿子的感觉。他说他虚荣、自私、懒惰、娘娘腔。他受不了他的时尚人士架子，对他的浮夸的吹牛故事哈哈大笑。 “我要把我一半的财产留给他，”他说。 “此外，他自己也会有很多；但我完全确定，如果你、我和他的妹妹明天死去，他会说“好家伙！”并像平常一样吃晚饭，所以我不会让自己担心他。让他嫁给他喜欢的人吧。这不关我的事。

Amelia, on the other hand, as became a young woman of her prudence and temperament, was quite enthusiastic for the match. Once or twice Jos had been on the point of saying something very important to her, to which she was most willing to lend an ear, but the fat fellow could not be brought to unbosom himself of his great secret, and very much to his sister’s disappointment he only rid himself of a large sigh and turned away.
而阿米莉亚，作为一个谨慎而有气质的年轻女子，对这场婚姻却相当热情。有一两次，乔斯想对她说一些非常重要的事情，她很愿意听，但是这个胖子却无法坦白他的伟大秘密，尤其是他妹妹的秘密。失望之情溢于言表，他只得长长地叹了口气，转身离去。

This mystery served to keep Amelia’s gentle bosom in a perpetual flutter of excitement. If she did not speak with Rebecca on the tender subject, she compensated herself with long and intimate conversations with Mrs. Blenkinsop, the housekeeper, who dropped some hints to the lady’s-maid, who may have cursorily mentioned the matter to the cook, who carried the news, I have no doubt, to all the tradesmen, so that Mr. Jos’s marriage was now talked of by a very considerable number of persons in the Russell Square world.
这个谜团让阿米莉亚温柔的胸怀永远充满兴奋。如果她没有和丽贝卡谈论这个温柔的话题，她就会通过与女管家布伦金索普夫人进行长时间而亲密的交谈来补偿自己，布伦金索普夫人向女仆的女仆透露了一些暗示，而女仆可能只是草率地向厨师提到了这件事，而女仆则向女仆透露了一些暗示。我毫不怀疑，把这个消息传给了所有的商人，因此乔斯先生的婚姻现在被罗素广场世界上相当多的人谈论。

It was, of course, Mrs. Sedley’s opinion that her son would demean himself by a marriage with an artist’s daughter. ‘But, lor’, Ma’am,’ ejaculated Mrs. Blenkinsop, ‘we was only grocers when we married Mr. S., who was a stock-broker’s clerk, and we hadn’t five hundred pounds among us, and we’re rich enough now.’ And Amelia was entirely of this opinion, to which, gradually, the good-natured Mrs. Sedley was brought.
当然，塞德利夫人认为她的儿子与艺术家的女儿结婚会贬低自己。 “但是，天哪，女士，”布伦金索普太太脱口而出，“当我们嫁给 S 先生时，我们只是杂货商，他是一名股票经纪人的职员，我们中间没有 500 英镑，而且我们“现在够富有了。”阿米莉亚完全同意这个观点，而善良的塞德利夫人也逐渐接受了这个观点。

Mr. Sedley was neutral. ‘Let Jos marry whom he likes,’ he said; ‘it’s no affair of mine. This girl has no fortune; no more had Mrs. Sedley. She seems good-humoured and clever, and will keep him in order, perhaps. Better she, my dear, than a black Mrs. Sedley, and a dozen of mahogany grandchildren.’
塞德利先生保持中立。 “让乔斯嫁给他喜欢的人吧，”他说。 ‘这不关我的事。这个女孩没有财产；塞德利夫人再也没有了。她看起来幽默又聪明，也许会让他保持秩序。亲爱的，她比黑人塞德利夫人和十几个红木孙子更好。

So that everything seemed to smile upon Rebecca’s fortunes. She took Jos’s arm, as a matter of course, on going to dinner; she had sate by him on the box of his open carriage (a most tremendous ‘buck’ he was, as he sat there, serene, in state, driving his greys), and though nobody said a word on the subject of the marriage, everybody seemed to understand it. All she wanted was the proposal, and ah! how Rebecca now felt the want of a mother!—a dear, tender mother, who would have managed the business in ten minutes, and, in the course of a little delicate confidential conversation, would have extracted the interesting avowal from the bashful lips of the young man!
因此，一切似乎都对丽贝卡的命运微笑。去吃晚饭时，她理所当然地挽着乔斯的手臂。她坐在他敞篷马车的车厢里（他是一个最伟大的“雄鹿”，因为他坐在那里，平静而庄重，驾驶着他的灰色汽车），尽管没有人对婚姻的话题说一句话，每个人似乎都明白这一点。她想要的只是求婚，啊！丽贝卡现在多么需要一个母亲啊！——一个亲爱的、温柔的母亲，她会在十分钟内处理好这件事，并且在一次微妙的保密谈话过程中，会从害羞的嘴唇中提取出有趣的坦白。年轻人！

Such was the state of affairs as the carriage crossed Westminster bridge.
这就是马车穿过威斯敏斯特桥时的情况。

The party was landed at the Royal Gardens in due time. As the majestic Jos stepped out of the creaking vehicle the crowd gave a cheer for the fat gentleman, who blushed and looked very big and mighty, as he walked away with Rebecca under his arm. George, of course, took charge of Amelia. She looked as happy as a rose-tree in sunshine.
聚会准时在皇家花园举行。当威风凛凛的乔斯从吱吱作响的汽车中走出来时，人群为这位胖绅士欢呼，他脸红了，看上去非常高大威猛，腋下夹着丽贝卡走开。当然，乔治负责照顾阿米莉亚。她看起来像阳光下的玫瑰树一样快乐。

‘I say, Dobbin,’ says George, ‘just look to the shawls and things, there’s a good fellow.’ And so while he paired off with Miss Sedley, and Jos squeezed through the gate into the gardens with Rebecca at his side, honest Dobbin contented himself by giving an arm to the shawls, and by paying at the door for the whole party.
“我说，多宾，”乔治说，“看看披肩之类的东西，这是一个好人。”因此，当他与塞德利小姐结对时，乔斯挤过大门进入花园，丽贝卡在他身边，诚实的多宾只用一只胳膊扶着披肩，并在门口为整个聚会付了钱，这让他很满足。

He walked very modestly behind them. He was not willing to spoil sport. About Rebecca and Jos he did not care a fig. But he thought Amelia worthy even of the brilliant George Osborne, and as he saw that good-looking couple threading the walks to the girl’s delight and wonder, he watched her artless happiness with a sort of fatherly pleasure. Perhaps he felt that he would have liked to have something on his own arm besides a shawl (the people laughed at seeing the gawky young officer carrying this female burthen); but William Dobbin was very little addicted to selfish calculation at all; and so long as his friend was enjoying himself, how should he be discontented? And the truth is, that of all the delights of the Gardens; of the hundred thousand extra lamps, which were always lighted; the fiddlers in cocked hats, who played ravishing melodies under the gilded cockle-shell in the midst of the gardens; the singers, both of comic and sentimental ballads, who charmed the ears there; the country dances, formed by bouncing cockneys and cockneyesses, and executed amidst jumping, thumping and laughter; the signal which announced that Madame Saqui was about to mount skyward on a slack-rope ascending to the stars; the hermit that always sat in the illuminated hermitage; the dark walks, so favourable to the interviews of young lovers; the pots of stout handed about by the people in the shabby old liveries; and the twinkling boxes, in which the happy feasters made-believe to eat slices of almost invisible ham—of all these things, and of the gentle Simpson, that kind smiling idiot, who, I daresay, presided even then over the place—Captain William Dobbin did not take the slightest notice.
他非常谦虚地走在他们后面。他不愿意破坏体育运动。关于丽贝卡和乔斯，他一点也不在乎。但他认为阿米莉亚甚至配得上才华横溢的乔治·奥斯本，当他看到那对英俊的夫妇沿着小路走向女孩的喜悦和惊奇时，他带着一种父亲般的快乐看着她天真无邪的幸福。也许他觉得除了披肩之外，他还想在自己的手臂上再戴点东西（人们看到这个笨手笨脚的年轻军官背着这个女担子，都笑了）；但威廉·多宾根本不沉迷于自私的算计。只要他的朋友过得开心，他又怎么会不满足呢？事实上，花园里所有的乐趣都是如此；总是亮着的十万盏额外的灯；戴着三角帽的小提琴手，在花园中央的镀金贝壳下演奏着迷人的旋律；那些歌手，无论是滑稽的还是伤感的歌谣，都让人们着迷。乡村舞蹈由跳跃的伦敦人和伦敦女人组成，在跳跃、重击和笑声中进行。这个信号表明萨奎夫人即将乘坐松绳登上天空，登上星空；总是坐在灯火通明的隐修院里的隐士；黑暗的小路，非常适合年轻恋人的会面；身穿破旧制服的人们递来的一罐罐黑啤酒；还有闪闪发光的盒子，快乐的宴会者假装在里面吃着几乎看不见的火腿片——所有这些东西，还有温柔的辛普森，那个微笑的白痴，我敢说，他甚至在那时就主持了这个地方——船长威廉·多宾没有丝毫在意。

He carried about Amelia’s white cashmere shawl, and having attended under the gilt cockle-shell, while Mrs. Salmon performed the Battle of Borodino (a savage cantata against the Corsican upstart, who had lately met with his Russian reverses)—Mr. Dobbin tried to hum it as he walked away, and found he was humming—the tune which Amelia Sedley sang on the stairs, as she came down to dinner.
他随身带着阿米莉亚的白色羊绒披肩，戴着镀金的贝壳出席，而萨尔蒙夫人则表演了博罗季诺之战（一首针对科西嘉暴发户的野蛮康塔塔，后者最近遭遇了俄罗斯对手）。多宾走开时试图哼起这首歌，结果发现他在哼唱——阿米莉亚·塞德利下楼吃晚饭时在楼梯上唱的曲子。

He burst out laughing at himself; for the truth is, he could sing no better than an owl.
他突然嘲笑自己。事实上，他的歌声并不比猫头鹰好。

It is to be understood, as a matter of course, that our young people, being in parties of two and two, made the most solemn promises to keep together during the evening, and separated in ten minutes afterwards. Parties at Vauxhall always did separate, but ‘twas only to meet again at supper-time, when they could talk of their mutual adventures in the interval.
理所当然的是，我们的年轻人两人二人一组，在晚上做出了最庄严的承诺，十分钟后就分开了。沃克斯豪尔的聚会总是分开进行，但只有在晚饭时间才会再次见面，那时他们可以在休息时间谈论彼此的冒险经历。

What were the adventures of Mr. Osborne and Miss Amelia? That is a secret. But be sure of this—they were perfectly happy, and correct in their behaviour; and as they had been in the habit of being together any time these fifteen years, their tete-a-tete offered no particular novelty.
奥斯本先生和阿米莉亚小姐经历了哪些冒险？这是一个秘密。但请确定这一点——他们非常快乐，而且行为正确；他们非常高兴。由于这十五年来他们已经习惯了随时在一起，所以他们的面对面并没有带来什么特别的新鲜感。

But when Miss Rebecca Sharp and her stout companion lost themselves in a solitary walk, in which there were not above five score more of couples similarly straying, they both felt that the situation was extremely tender and critical, and now or never was the moment Miss Sharp thought, to provoke that declaration which was trembling on the timid lips of Mr. Sedley. They had previously been to the panorama of Moscow, where a rude fellow, treading on Miss Sharp’s foot, caused her to fall back with a little shriek into the arms of Mr. Sedley, and this little incident increased the tenderness and confidence of that gentleman to such a degree, that he told her several of his favourite Indian stories over again for, at least, the sixth time.
但是，当丽贝卡·夏普小姐和她粗壮的同伴在一次孤独的散步中迷失了方向时，其中类似迷失的情侣不超过五二十对，她们都感到情况非常温柔和危急，现在或永远不是小姐的时刻。尖锐的想法，激起了塞德利先生胆怯的嘴唇上颤抖的宣言。他们之前曾到过莫斯科全景，有一个粗鲁的家伙踩到了夏普小姐的脚，让她尖叫一声倒在了塞德利先生的怀里，这件小事增加了这位绅士的温柔和自信。以至于他至少第六次给她讲了几个他最喜欢的印度故事。

‘How I should like to see India!’ said Rebecca.
“我多么想去看看印度啊！”丽贝卡说。

‘SHOULD you?’ said Joseph, with a most killing tenderness; and was no doubt about to follow up this artful interrogatory by a question still more tender (for he puffed and panted a great deal, and Rebecca’s hand, which was placed near his heart, could count the feverish pulsations of that organ), when, oh, provoking! the bell rang for the fireworks, and, a great scuffling and running taking place, these interesting lovers were obliged to follow in the stream of people.
“你应该这么做吗？”约瑟夫说道，语气里充满了致命的温柔。毫无疑问，他接下来会提出一个更加温柔的问题（因为他气喘吁吁，丽贝卡的手放在他的心脏附近，可以数出那个器官的狂热脉动），这时，哦，挑衅！烟花的钟声响起，一阵激烈的扭打和奔跑，这些有趣的恋人不得不跟在人流中。

Captain Dobbin had some thoughts of joining the party at supper: as, in truth, he found the Vauxhall amusements not particularly lively— but he paraded twice before the box where the now united couples were met, and nobody took any notice of him. Covers were laid for four. The mated pairs were prattling away quite happily, and Dobbin knew he was as clean forgotten as if he had never existed in this world.
多宾船长有一些在晚饭时加入聚会的想法：事实上，他发现沃克斯豪尔的娱乐活动并不是特别热闹，但他在包厢前游行了两次，现在这对夫妇已经团聚了，没有人注意到他。四人都铺好了被子。交配的一对非常高兴地闲聊着，多宾知道他已经被彻底遗忘了，就好像他从来没有存在于这个世界上一样。

‘I should only be de trop,’ said the Captain, looking at them rather wistfully. ‘I’d best go and talk to the hermit,’—and so he strolled off out of the hum of men, and noise, and clatter of the banquet, into the dark walk, at the end of which lived that wellknown pasteboard Solitary. It wasn’t very good fun for Dobbin—and, indeed, to be alone at Vauxhall, I have found, from my own experience, to be one of the most dismal sports ever entered into by a bachelor.
“我应该去德特罗，”船长说道，颇为渴望地看着他们。 “我最好去和隐士谈谈。”——于是他走出人群的喧嚣、喧闹和宴会的喧闹声，走进黑暗的小道，在小道的尽头住着那个著名的纸板孤独者。 。对多宾来说，这并不是一件很有趣的事情——事实上，根据我自己的经验，我发现独自一人在沃克斯豪尔是单身汉参加过的最令人沮丧的运动之一。

The two couples were perfectly happy then in their box: where the most delightful and intimate conversation took place. Jos was in his glory, ordering about the waiters with great majesty. He made the salad; and uncorked the Champagne; and carved the chickens; and ate and drank the greater part of the refreshments on the tables. Finally, he insisted upon having a bowl of rack punch; everybody had rack punch at Vauxhall. ‘Waiter, rack punch.’
两对夫妇当时在他们的包厢里非常高兴：在那里进行了最愉快和亲密的谈话。乔斯神采飞扬，威严地对侍者发号施令。他做了沙拉；并打开香槟；并雕刻了鸡；吃喝了桌上的大部分茶点。最后，他坚持要一碗架式潘趣酒。每个人都在沃克斯豪尔打架。 “服务员，打拳。”

That bowl of rack punch was the cause of all this history. And why not a bowl of rack punch as well as any other cause? Was not a bowl of prussic acid the cause of Fair Rosamond’s retiring from the world? Was not a bowl of wine the cause of the demise of Alexander the Great, or, at least, does not Dr. Lempriere say so?—so did this bowl of rack punch influence the fates of all the principal characters in this ‘Novel without a Hero,’ which we are now relating. It influenced their life, although most of them did not taste a drop of it.
那碗架子冲床是这一切历史的原因。为什么不喝一碗架式潘趣酒以及其他原因呢？难道不是一碗氢氰酸让罗莎蒙德小姐隐退了？难道不是一碗酒导致了亚历山大大帝的灭亡吗？或者，至少伦普里埃博士不是这么说的吗？——那么，这碗架子潘趣酒是否影响了这部“小说中所有主要人物的命运”？我们现在正在谈论的英雄。它影响了他们的生活，尽管他们中的大多数人没有尝到一滴。

The young ladies did not drink it; Osborne did not like it; and the consequence was that Jos, that fat gourmand, drank up the whole contents of the bowl; and the consequence of his drinking up the whole contents of the bowl was a liveliness which at first was astonishing, and then became almost painful; for he talked and laughed so loud as to bring scores of listeners round the box, much to the confusion of the innocent party within it; and, volunteering to sing a song (which he did in that maudlin high key peculiar to gentlemen in an inebriated state), he almost drew away the audience who were gathered round the musicians in the gilt scollop-shell, and received from his hearers a great deal of applause.
年轻的女士们没有喝。奥斯本不喜欢这样。结果乔斯，那个胖美食家，把碗里的东西都喝光了。他喝光了碗里的所有东西，结果是一种活力，起初是令人惊讶的，然后变得几乎是痛苦的。因为他说话和大笑的声音很大，吸引了数十名听众围观包厢，这让里面无辜的人感到困惑。他自告奋勇地唱了一首歌（他以醉酒状态下绅士特有的伤感高调唱起歌），几乎把聚集在镀金扇形贝壳音乐家周围的观众都吸引走了，并从听众那里收到了热烈的掌声。

‘Brayvo, Fat un!’ said one; ‘Angcore, Daniel Lambert!’ said another; ‘What a figure for the tight-rope!’ exclaimed another wag, to the inexpressible alarm of the ladies, and the great anger of Mr. Osborne.
“Brayvo，胖子！”其中一个说道。 “Angcore，丹尼尔·兰伯特！”另一个人说道。 “这对走钢丝来说是多么大的数字啊！”另一个人大声喊道，这让女士们感到难以言喻的惊慌，也让奥斯本先生勃然大怒。

‘For Heaven’s sake, Jos, let us get up and go,’ cried that gentleman, and the young women rose.
“看在上帝的份上，乔斯，让我们起身走吧，”那位绅士喊道，年轻女子们站了起来。

‘Stop, my dearest diddle-diddle-darling,’ shouted Jos, now as bold as a lion, and clasping Miss Rebecca round the waist. Rebecca started, but she could not get away her hand. The laughter outside redoubled. Jos continued to drink, to make love, and to sing; and, winking and waving his glass gracefully to his audience, challenged all or any to come in and take a share of his punch.
“住手，我最亲爱的骗子，”乔斯喊道，他现在像狮子一样大胆，一把搂住丽贝卡小姐的腰。丽贝卡吃了一惊，但她的手却无法抽开。外面的笑声更盛了。乔斯继续喝酒、做爱、唱歌。他向观众眨眼、优雅地挥舞着酒杯，向所有人或任何人发出挑战，要求他们进来分享他的拳头。

Mr. Osborne was just on the point of knocking down a gentleman in top-boots, who proposed to take advantage of this invitation, and a commotion seemed to be inevitable, when by the greatest good luck a gentleman of the name of Dobbin, who had been walking about the gardens, stepped up to the box. ‘Be off, you fools!’ said this gentleman—shouldering off a great number of the crowd, who vanished presently before his cocked hat and fierce appearance—and he entered the box in a most agitated state.
奥斯本先生正要击倒一位穿着高筒靴的绅士，他提议利用这次邀请，一场骚动似乎是不可避免的，幸运的是，一位名叫多宾的绅士，一直在花园里散步，走到盒子前。 “走开，你们这些傻瓜！”这位绅士用肩膀推开一大群人群，在他那双三角帽和凶猛的外表面前，人群很快就消失了——然后他以一种极其激动的状态走进了包厢。

‘Good Heavens! Dobbin, where have you been?’ Osborne said, seizing the white cashmere shawl from his friend’s arm, and huddling up Amelia in it.—‘Make yourself useful, and take charge of Jos here, whilst I take the ladies to the carriage.’
'我的妈呀！多宾，你去哪儿了？”奥斯本说着，从他朋友的手臂上抓起白色羊绒披肩，把阿米莉亚裹在里面。——“让自己变得有用，在这儿照顾乔斯，而我则带女士们上马车。 '

Jos was for rising to interfere—but a single push from Osborne’s finger sent him puffing back into his seat again, and the lieutenant was enabled to remove the ladies in safety. Jos kissed his hand to them as they retreated, and hiccupped out ‘Bless you! Bless you!’ Then, seizing Captain Dobbin’s hand, and weeping in the most pitiful way, he confided to that gentleman the secret of his loves. He adored that girl who had just gone out; he had broken her heart, he knew he had, by his conduct; he would marry her next morning at St. George’s, Hanover Square; he’d knock up the Archbishop of Canterbury at Lambeth: he would, by Jove! and have him in readiness; and, acting on this hint, Captain Dobbin shrewdly induced him to leave the gardens and hasten to Lambeth Palace, and, when once out of the gates, easily conveyed Mr. Jos Sedley into a hackney-coach, which deposited him safely at his lodgings.
乔斯本来想站起来干涉，但奥斯本手指一推，他就又气喘吁吁地回到了座位上，中尉才得以安全地把女士们带走。当他们撤退时，乔斯亲吻了他们的手，并打嗝道：“保佑你们！”祝福你！”然后，他抓住多宾船长的手，以最可怜的方式哭泣，向那位先生吐露了他爱情的秘密。他很喜欢那个刚刚出去的女孩；他已经伤透了她的心，从他的行为来看，他知道他已经伤透了她的心。第二天早上，他将在汉诺威广场的圣乔治教堂与她结婚。他会在兰贝斯击败坎特伯雷大主教：天哪，他会的！并让他做好准备；多宾船长根据这一暗示，精明地引导他离开花园，赶往兰贝斯宫，一出大门，就轻松地将乔斯·塞德利先生送上一辆出租马车，把他安全地送到了他的住处。 。

George Osborne conducted the girls home in safety: and when the door was closed upon them, and as he walked across Russell Square, laughed so as to astonish the watchman. Amelia looked very ruefully at her friend, as they went up stairs, and kissed her, and went to bed without any more talking.
乔治·奥斯本带着女孩们安全回家：当门在她们面前关上时，当他走过罗素广场时，他大笑起来，让看守人感到惊讶。当他们上楼时，阿米莉亚非常悲伤地看着她的朋友，吻了她，然后就上床睡觉了，没有再说话。

‘He must propose to-morrow,’ thought Rebecca. ‘He called me his soul’s darling, four times; he squeezed my hand in Amelia’s presence. He must propose to-morrow.’ And so thought Amelia, too. And I dare say she thought of the dress she was to wear as bridesmaid, and of the presents which she should make to her nice little sister-in-law, and of a subsequent ceremony in which she herself might play a principal part, &c., and &c., and &c., and &c.
“他必须明天求婚，”丽贝卡想。 “他四次称我为他灵魂的宠儿；他当着阿米莉亚的面捏了捏我的手。他明天必须求婚。”阿米莉亚也这么想。我敢说她想到了她作为伴娘要穿的衣服，想到了她应该给她漂亮的小嫂子准备的礼物，以及随后她自己可能扮演主要角色的仪式，等等.、&c.、&c.、&c.。

Oh, ignorant young creatures! How little do you know the effect of rack punch! What is the rack in the punch, at night, to the rack in the head of a morning? To this truth I can vouch as a man; there is no headache in the world like that caused by Vauxhall punch. Through the lapse of twenty years, I can remember the consequence of two glasses! two wine-glasses! but two, upon the honour of a gentleman; and Joseph Sedley, who had a liver complaint, had swallowed at least a quart of the abominable mixture.
噢，无知的年轻人！架打拳的作用你知多少！晚上冲床中的架子和早上头上的架子是什么？作为一个男人，我可以保证这一点；世界上没有像沃克斯豪尔冲床那样令人头疼的事情。时隔二十年，我还记得戴两副眼镜的后果！两个酒杯！但以绅士的荣誉而言，只有两个；患有肝脏疾病的约瑟夫·塞德利至少吞下了一夸脱这种令人厌恶的混合物。

That next morning, which Rebecca thought was to dawn upon her fortune, found Sedley groaning in agonies which the pen refuses to describe. Soda-water was not invented yet. Small beer—will it be believed!—was the only drink with which unhappy gentlemen soothed the fever of their previous night’s potation. With this mild beverage before him, George Osborne found the ex-Collector of Boggley Wollah groaning on the sofa at his lodgings. Dobbin was already in the room, good-naturedly tending his patient of the night before. The two officers, looking at the prostrate Bacchanalian, and askance at each other, exchanged the most frightful sympathetic grins. Even Sedley’s valet, the most solemn and correct of gentlemen, with the muteness and gravity of an undertaker, could hardly keep his countenance in order, as he looked at his unfortunate master.
第二天早上，丽贝卡以为她的命运即将到来，却发现塞德利在痛苦中呻吟，而笔下却无法描述这种痛苦。那时苏打水还没有发明。小瓶啤酒——你相信吗！——是不幸的绅士们用来缓解前一天晚上喝下的药水的唯一饮料。乔治·奥斯本端着这种温和的饮料，发现博格利·沃拉的前收藏家在他住所的沙发上呻吟。多宾已经在房间里，和蔼地照顾前一天晚上的病人。两个军官看着倒在地上的酒神，互相斜视，交换了最可怕的同情的笑容。就连塞德利的贴身男仆，这位最严肃、最端正的绅士，带着殡葬承办人般的沉默和严肃，在看着他不幸的主人时，也很难保持面容平静。

‘Mr. Sedley was uncommon wild last night, sir,’ he whispered in confidence to Osborne, as the latter mounted the stair. ‘He wanted to fight the ‘ackney-coachman, sir. The Capting was obliged to bring him upstairs in his harms like a babby.’ A momentary smile flickered over Mr. Brush’s features as he spoke; instantly, however, they relapsed into their usual unfathomable calm, as he flung open the drawing-room door, and announced ‘Mr. Hosbin.’
'先生。先生，塞德利昨晚表现得异常狂野。”当奥斯本上楼梯时，他自信地对他耳语道。 “他想和‘阿克尼马车夫’战斗，先生。上尉不得不像个婴儿一样把他带上楼。” 布鲁斯先生说话时，脸上闪过一丝微笑；然而，当他猛地打开客厅的门并宣布“先生”时，他们立即又恢复了往常的深不可测的平静。霍斯宾。”

‘How are you, Sedley?’ that young wag began, after surveying his victim. ‘No bones broke? There’s a hackney-coachman downstairs with a black eye, and a tied-up head, vowing he’ll have the law of you.’
“你怎么样，塞德利？”那个年轻的爱开玩笑的人在审视了他的受害者后开始说道。 ‘骨头没有断吗？楼下有一个黑眼圈、头被绑着的出租马车夫，发誓他会遵守你的法律。

‘What do you mean—law?’ Sedley faintly asked.
“你的意思是——法律？”塞德利微弱地问道。

‘For thrashing him last night—didn’t he, Dobbin? You hit out, sir, like Molyneux. The watchman says he never saw a fellow go down so straight. Ask Dobbin.’
“昨晚殴打了他——不是吗，多宾？先生，你像莫利纽克斯一样出击了。看守人说他从来没有见过有人摔得这么直。问问多宾吧。

‘You DID have a round with the coachman,’ Captain Dobbin said, ‘and showed plenty of fight too.’
“你确实和车夫打了一轮，”多宾队长说，“而且也表现出了很多战斗力。”

‘And that fellow with the white coat at Vauxhall! How Jos drove at him! How the women screamed! By Jove, sir, it did my heart good to see you. I thought you civilians had no pluck; but I’ll never get in your way when you are in your cups, Jos.’
“还有沃克斯豪尔那个穿白大褂的家伙！”乔斯多么向他冲来啊！女人们多么尖叫啊！老天爷，先生，见到你我心里真高兴。我以为你们这些平民没有勇气；但当你在你的杯子里时，我永远不会妨碍你，乔斯。

‘I believe I’m very terrible, when I’m roused,’ ejaculated Jos from the sofa, and made a grimace so dreary and ludicrous, that the Captain’s politeness could restrain him no longer, and he and Osborne fired off a ringing volley of laughter.
“我相信，当我被唤醒时，我非常糟糕，”乔斯从沙发上脱口而出，并做了一个如此沉闷和可笑的鬼脸，以至于船长的礼貌不再能约束他，他和奥斯本发射了响亮的齐射的笑声。

Osborne pursued his advantage pitilessly. He thought Jos a milksop. He had been revolving in his mind the marriage question pending between Jos and Rebecca, and was not over well pleased that a member of a family into which he, George Osborne, of the —th, was going to marry, should make a mesalliance with a little nobody—a little upstart governess. ‘You hit, you poor old fellow!’ said Osborne. ‘You terrible! Why, man, you couldn’t stand—you made everybody laugh in the Gardens, though you were crying yourself. You were maudlin, Jos. Don’t you remember singing a song?’
奥斯本无情地追求自己的优势。他认为乔斯是个奶糖。他脑子里一直在思考乔斯和丽贝卡之间悬而未决的婚姻问题，他不太高兴，因为他，乔治·奥斯本，即将结婚的家庭的一个成员竟然与他结为亲戚。一个小人物——一个暴发户的小家庭女教师。 “你打中了，你这个可怜的老家伙！”奥斯本说道。 ‘你太可怕了！为什么，老兄，你受不了了——你让花园里的每个人都笑了，尽管你自己也在哭。你很伤感，乔斯。你不记得唱过一首歌吗？

‘A what?’ Jos asked.
“什么？”乔斯问道。

‘A sentimental song, and calling Rosa, Rebecca, what’s her name, Amelia’s little friend—your dearest diddle-diddle-darling?’ And this ruthless young fellow, seizing hold of Dobbin’s hand, acted over the scene, to the horror of the original performer, and in spite of Dobbin’s good-natured entreaties to him to have mercy.
“一首伤感的歌曲，叫罗莎，丽贝卡，她叫什么名字，阿米莉亚的小朋友——你最亲爱的骗子？”这个无情的年轻人抓住了多宾的手，在现场表演了一场，让所有人感到恐怖。最初的表演者，尽管多宾善意地恳求他怜悯。

‘Why should I spare him?’ Osborne said to his friend’s remonstrances, when they quitted the invalid, leaving him under the hands of Doctor Gollop. ‘What the deuce right has he to give himself his patronizing airs, and make fools of us at Vauxhall? Who’s this little schoolgirl that is ogling and making love to him? Hang it, the family’s low enough already, without HER. A governess is all very well, but I’d rather have a lady for my sister-in-law. I’m a liberal man; but I’ve proper pride, and know my own station: let her know hers. And I’ll take down that great hectoring Nabob, and prevent him from being made a greater fool than he is. That’s why I told him to look out, lest she brought an action against him.’
“我为什么要饶恕他？”当他们放弃病人，把他交给戈洛普医生照顾时，奥斯本对他朋友的抗议说道。 “他有什么权利摆出一副居高临下的架势，在沃克斯豪尔愚弄我们？这个正在向他抛媚眼并做爱的小女学生是谁？算了，没有她，这个家庭已经够低贱的了。家庭教师固然很好，但我宁愿找一位女士当我的嫂子。我是一个自由主义者；但我有适当的骄傲，并且知道自己的立场：让她知道她的立场。我会打倒那个威吓的纳博，并防止他成为比他更大的傻瓜。这就是为什么我告诉他要小心，以免她对他提起诉讼。

‘I suppose you know best,’ Dobbin said, though rather dubiously. ‘You always were a Tory, and your family’s one of the oldest in England. But—‘
“我想你最清楚，”多宾说道，尽管有些怀疑。 “你一直是保守党人，你的家族是英格兰最古老的家族之一。但-'

‘Come and see the girls, and make love to Miss Sharp yourself,’ the lieutenant here interrupted his friend; but Captain Dobbin declined to join Osborne in his daily visit to the young ladies in Russell Square.
“来看看姑娘们，亲自和夏普小姐做爱吧，”中尉打断了他的朋友的话。但多宾船长拒绝与奥斯本一起每天拜访罗素广场的年轻女士们。

As George walked down Southampton Row, from Holborn, he laughed as he saw, at the Sedley Mansion, in two different stories two heads on the look-out.
当乔治从霍尔本沿着南安普敦街走下去时，他在塞德利宅邸看到两个不同的故事里有两个人在注视着，他笑了。

The fact is, Miss Amelia, in the drawing-room balcony, was looking very eagerly towards the opposite side of the Square, where Mr. Osborne dwelt, on the watch for the lieutenant himself; and Miss Sharp, from her little bed-room on the second floor, was in observation until Mr. Joseph’s great form should heave in sight.
事实上，阿米莉亚小姐在客厅的阳台上，非常热切地望着广场的另一边，奥斯本先生就住在那里，监视着中尉本人。夏普小姐在二楼的小卧室里观察着，直到约瑟夫先生魁梧的身躯出现在眼前。

‘Sister Anne is on the watch-tower,’ said he to Amelia, ‘but there’s nobody coming”; and laughing and enjoying the joke hugely, he described in the most ludicrous terms to Miss Sedley, the dismal condition of her brother.
“安妮修女在瞭望塔上，”他对阿米莉亚说，“但是没有人来。”他大笑起来，非常享受这个笑话，用最可笑的语言向塞德利小姐描述了她哥哥的悲惨处境。

‘I think it’s very cruel of you to laugh, George,’ she said, looking particularly unhappy; but George only laughed the more at her piteous and discomfited mien, persisted in thinking the joke a most diverting one, and when Miss Sharp came downstairs, bantered her with a great deal of liveliness upon the effect of her charms on the fat civilian.
“我觉得你笑起来太残忍了，乔治，”她说道，看上去特别不高兴。但乔治只是对她那可怜兮兮、狼狈不堪的样子笑得更开心了，坚持认为这个笑话是最有趣的，当夏普小姐下楼时，他就她的魅力对那个胖平民产生的影响，用极大的活泼的方式取笑她。

‘O Miss Sharp! if you could but see him this morning,’ he said— ‘moaning in his flowered dressing-gown—writhing on his sofa; if you could but have seen him lolling out his tongue to Gollop the apothecary.’
“夏普小姐啊！如果你今天早上能见到他就好了，”他说——“穿着花式晨衣呻吟着——在沙发上翻滚；如果你能看到他向药剂师戈洛普伸出舌头就好了。

‘See whom?’ said Miss Sharp.
“看到谁了吗？”夏普小姐说。

‘Whom? O whom? Captain Dobbin, of course, to whom we were all so attentive, by the way, last night.’
'谁？噢，谁？当然是多宾船长，顺便说一下，昨晚我们都很关心他。”

‘We were very unkind to him,’ Emmy said, blushing very much. ‘I—I quite forgot him.’
“我们对他非常不友善，”艾米说，脸红得很厉害。 “我——我完全把他忘了。”

‘Of course you did,’ cried Osborne, still on the laugh.
“你当然知道了，”奥斯本喊道，仍然笑着。

‘One can’t be ALWAYS thinking about Dobbin, you know, Amelia. Can one, Miss Sharp?’
“一个人不能总是想着多宾，你知道，阿米莉亚。可以吗，夏普小姐？

‘Except when he overset the glass of wine at dinner,’ Miss Sharp said, with a haughty air and a toss of the head, ‘I never gave the existence of Captain Dobbin one single moment’s consideration.’
“除非他在晚餐时打翻了酒杯，”夏普小姐摇摇头，语气傲慢地说，“我从来没有一刻考虑过多宾船长的存在。”

‘Very good, Miss Sharp, I’ll tell him,’ Osborne said; and as he spoke Miss Sharp began to have a feeling of distrust and hatred towards this young officer, which he was quite unconscious of having inspired. ‘He is to make fun of me, is he?’ thought Rebecca. ‘Has he been laughing about me to Joseph? Has he frightened him? Perhaps he won’t come.’—A film passed over her eyes, and her heart beat quite quick.
“很好，夏普小姐，我会告诉他的，”奥斯本说。当他说话的时候，夏普小姐开始对这位年轻军官产生一种不信任和仇恨的感觉，而这种感觉是他完全没有意识到的。 “他是来取笑我的，是吗？”丽贝卡想。 “他有没有在约瑟夫面前嘲笑我？吓到他了吗？也许他不会来了。”——她的眼前掠过一层薄膜，她的心跳得很快。

‘You’re always joking,’ said she, smiling as innocently as she could. ‘Joke away, Mr. George; there’s nobody to defend ME.’ And George Osborne, as she walked away—and Amelia looked reprovingly at him—felt some little manly compunction for having inflicted any unnecessary unkindness upon this helpless creature. ‘My dearest Amelia,’ said he, ‘you are too good—too kind. You don’t know the world. I do. And your little friend Miss Sharp must learn her station.’
“你总是在开玩笑。”她尽可能天真地微笑着说道。 “开个玩笑吧，乔治先生；”乔治·奥斯本在她走开时——阿米莉亚责备地看着他——感到一点点男子气概的内疚，因为自己对这个无助的生物施加了不必要的不​​友善。 “我最亲爱的阿米莉亚，”他说，“你太好了——太好了。”你不了解这个世界。我愿意。你的小朋友夏普小姐必须了解她的身份。

‘Don’t you think Jos will—‘
“你不认为乔斯会——”

‘Upon my word, my dear, I don’t know. He may, or may not. I’m not his master. I only know he is a very foolish vain fellow, and put my dear little girl into a very painful and awkward position last night. My dearest diddle-diddle-darling!’ He was off laughing again, and he did it so drolly that Emmy laughed too.
“老实说，亲爱的，我不知道。他可能会，也可能不会。我不是他的师父。我只知道他是一个非常愚蠢虚荣的家伙，昨晚让我亲爱的小女孩陷入了非常痛苦和尴尬的境地。我最亲爱的骗子！”他又笑了起来，他笑得那么滑稽，艾美也笑了。

All that day Jos never came. But Amelia had no fear about this; for the little schemer had actually sent away the page, Mr. Sambo’s aide-de-camp, to Mr. Joseph’s lodgings, to ask for some book he had promised, and how he was; and the reply through Jos’s man, Mr. Brush, was, that his master was ill in bed, and had just had the doctor with him. He must come to-morrow, she thought, but she never had the courage to speak a word on the subject to Rebecca; nor did that young woman herself allude to it in any way during the whole evening after the night at Vauxhall.
整整一天，乔斯都没有来。但阿米莉亚对此并不担心；因为这个小阴谋家实际上已经派了桑博先生的副官到约瑟夫先生的住处，询问他答应的一些书，以及他的情况；乔斯的手下布鲁斯先生回复说，他的主人卧病在床，刚刚请了医生陪在他身边。他明天必须来，她想，但她从来没有勇气就这个话题对丽贝卡说一句话。在沃克斯豪尔那晚之后的整个晚上，那位年轻女子本人也没有以任何方式提及此事。

The next day, however, as the two young ladies sate on the sofa, pretending to work, or to write letters, or to read novels, Sambo came into the room with his usual engaging grin, with a packet under his arm, and a note on a tray. ‘Note from Mr. Jos, Miss,’ says Sambo.
然而第二天，当两位年轻女士坐在沙发上，假装工作，假装写信，假装看小说时，桑博带着他一贯迷人的笑容走进了房间，腋下夹着一个小包，托盘上的注释。 “乔斯先生的来信，小姐，”桑博说。

How Amelia trembled as she opened it!
当阿米莉亚打开它时，她多么颤抖啊！

So it ran:
所以它跑了：

Dear Amelia,—I send you the ‘Orphan of the Forest.’ I was too ill to come yesterday. I leave town to-day for Cheltenham. Pray excuse me, if you can, to the amiable Miss Sharp, for my conduct at Vauxhall, and entreat her to pardon and forget every word I may have uttered when excited by that fatal supper. As soon as I have recovered, for my health is very much shaken, I shall go to Scotland for some months, and am
亲爱的阿米莉亚，——我送你“森林孤儿”。昨天我病得太重了，没能来。我今天离开小镇前往切尔滕纳姆。如果可以的话，请原谅我在沃克斯豪尔的行为，向和蔼可亲的夏普小姐道歉，并恳求她原谅我，忘记我因那顿致命的晚餐而激动时所说的每一句话。由于我的健康状况受到很大影响，一旦康复，我将去苏格兰几个月，并且

Truly yours, Jos Sedley
真正属于你的，乔斯·塞德利

It was the death-warrant. All was over. Amelia did not dare to look at Rebecca’s pale face and burning eyes, but she dropt the letter into her friend’s lap; and got up, and went upstairs to her room, and cried her little heart out.
这是死刑令。一切都结束了。阿米莉亚不敢看丽贝卡苍白的脸和灼热的眼睛，但她把信扔到了朋友的腿上；她站起来，上楼到自己的房间，哭得心都碎了。

Blenkinsop, the housekeeper, there sought her presently with consolation, on whose shoulder Amelia wept confidentially, and relieved herself a good deal. ‘Don’t take on, Miss. I didn’t like to tell you. But none of us in the house have liked her except at fust. I sor her with my own eyes reading your Ma’s letters. Pinner says she’s always about your trinket-box and drawers, and everybody’s drawers, and she’s sure she’s put your white ribbing into her box.’
女管家布伦金索夫立即前来安慰她，阿米莉亚靠在他的肩上偷偷地哭泣，并大便了一番。 “别承担，小姐。我不想告诉你。但除了一开始，我们家里没有人喜欢她。我亲眼读了你妈妈的信，对她感到难过。平纳说她总是关心你的小饰品盒和抽屉，以及每个人的抽屉，她确信她把你的白色罗纹放进了她的盒子里。

‘I gave it her, I gave it her,’ Amelia said.
“我把它给了她，我把它给了她，”阿米莉亚说。

But this did not alter Mrs. Blenkinsop’s opinion of Miss Sharp. ‘I don’t trust them governesses, Pinner,’ she remarked to the maid. ‘They give themselves the hairs and hupstarts of ladies, and their wages is no better than you nor me.’
但这并没有改变布伦金索普夫人对夏普小姐的看法。 “我不相信她们这些家庭教师，平纳，”她对女仆说道。 “他们给自己留着女士们的头发和暴发户，他们的工资并不比你我好。”

It now became clear to every soul in the house, except poor Amelia, that Rebecca should take her departure, and high and low (always with the one exception) agreed that that event should take place as speedily as possible. Our good child ransacked all her drawers, cupboards, reticules, and gimcrack boxes—passed in review all her gowns, fichus, tags, bobbins, laces, silk stockings, and fallals— selecting this thing and that and the other, to make a little heap for Rebecca. And going to her Papa, that generous British merchant, who had promised to give her as many guineas as she was years old— she begged the old gentleman to give the money to dear Rebecca, who must want it, while she lacked for nothing.
现在，除了可怜的阿米莉亚之外，家里的每个人都清楚丽贝卡应该离开，而高层和低层（总是有一个例外）都同意这一事件应该尽快发生。我们的好孩子翻遍了她所有的抽屉、橱柜、手提包和小盒子——检查了她所有的礼服、苋菜、吊牌、线轴、花边、丝袜和秋裤——选择这个那个那个那个，做一点小东西。丽贝卡的堆。她去找她的爸爸，那个慷慨的英国商人，他答应给她和她几岁一样多的几尼——她恳求老先生把钱给亲爱的丽贝卡，她一定想要它，而她什么也不缺。

She even made George Osborne contribute, and nothing loth (for he was as free-handed a young fellow as any in the army), he went to Bond Street, and bought the best hat and spenser that money could buy.
她甚至让乔治·奥斯本捐款，他毫不犹豫地去了邦德街，买了钱能买到的最好的帽子和钱币。

‘That’s George’s present to you, Rebecca, dear,’ said Amelia, quite proud of the bandbox conveying these gifts. ‘What a taste he has! There’s nobody like him.’
“这是乔治送给你的礼物，丽贝卡，亲爱的，”阿米莉亚说，她对传送这些礼物的乐队盒感到非常自豪。 ‘他的品味真好！没有人像他一样。

‘Nobody,’ Rebecca answered. ‘How thankful I am to him!’ She was thinking in her heart, ‘It was George Osborne who prevented my marriage.’—And she loved George Osborne accordingly.
“没有人，”丽贝卡回答。 “我多么感谢他啊！”她心里想，“是乔治·奥斯本阻止了我的婚姻。”——她也因此爱乔治·奥斯本。

She made her preparations for departure with great equanimity; and accepted all the kind little Amelia’s presents, after just the proper degree of hesitation and reluctance. She vowed eternal gratitude to Mrs. Sedley, of course; but did not intrude herself upon that good lady too much, who was embarrassed, and evidently wishing to avoid her. She kissed Mr. Sedley’s hand, when he presented her with the purse; and asked permission to consider him for the future as her kind, kind friend and protector. Her behaviour was so affecting that he was going to write her a cheque for twenty pounds more; but he restrained his feelings: the carriage was in waiting to take him to dinner, so he tripped away with a ‘God bless you, my dear, always come here when you come to town, you know.—Drive to the Mansion House, James.’
她平静地做好了出发的准备。经过适当程度的犹豫和不情愿之后，她接受了小阿米莉亚所有好心的礼物。当然，她发誓永远感激塞德利夫人。但她并没有过多地打扰那位善良的女士，她很尴尬，显然想避开她。当塞德利先生把钱包递给她时，她亲吻了他的手。并请求允许将他视为她未来善良、善良的朋友和保护者。她的行为如此感人，他准备再给她开一张二十英镑的支票。但他克制住了自己的感情：马车已经在等着带他去吃晚饭了，所以他一边说着“上帝保佑你，亲爱的，你来镇上时一定要来这里，你知道的。”就走开了。——开车去豪宅，詹姆士。'

Finally came the parting with Miss Amelia, over which picture I intend to throw a veil. But after a scene in which one person was in earnest and the other a perfect performer—after the tenderest caresses, the most pathetic tears, the smelling-bottle, and some of the very best feelings of the heart, had been called into requisition—Rebecca and Amelia parted, the former vowing to love her friend for ever and ever and ever.
最后是与阿米莉亚小姐的分别，我打算把这张照片遮盖起来。但在一场戏中，一个人是认真的，另一个人是完美的表演者——在最温柔的爱抚、最可怜的眼泪、嗅觉瓶和一些内心最美好的情感被召唤出来之后——丽贝卡和阿米莉亚分手了，丽贝卡发誓要永远爱她的朋友。

Chapter VII
第七章


Crawley of Queen’s Crawley
皇后克劳利的克劳利

Among the most respected of the names beginning in C which the Court-Guide contained, in the year 18—, was that of Crawley, Sir Pitt, Baronet, Great Gaunt Street, and Queen’s Crawley, Hants. This honourable name had figured constantly also in the Parliamentary list for many years, in conjunction with that of a number of other worthy gentlemen who sat in turns for the borough.
18 年《宫廷指南》中最受尊敬的以 C 开头的名字包括克劳利、皮特爵士、男爵、大冈特街和皇后克劳利、汉茨。多年来，这个光荣的名字一直出现在议会名单中，与轮流担任该行政区议员的其他一些可敬的绅士一起。

It is related, with regard to the borough of Queen’s Crawley, that Queen Elizabeth in one of her progresses, stopping at Crawley to breakfast, was so delighted with some remarkably fine Hampshire beer which was then presented to her by the Crawley of the day (a handsome gentleman with a trim beard and a good leg), that she forthwith erected Crawley into a borough to send two members to Parliament; and the place, from the day of that illustrious visit, took the name of Queen’s Crawley, which it holds up to the present moment. And though, by the lapse of time, and those mutations which age produces in empires, cities, and boroughs, Queen’s Crawley was no longer so populous a place as it had been in Queen Bess’s time— nay, was come down to that condition of borough which used to be denominated rotten—yet, as Sir Pitt Crawley would say with perfect justice in his elegant way, ‘Rotten! be hanged—it produces me a good fifteen hundred a year.’
与皇后克劳利行政区有关的是，伊丽莎白女王在她的一次行程中，在克劳利停下来吃早餐，对一些非常优质的汉普郡啤酒感到非常高兴，然后由当时的克劳利赠送给她（一位英俊的绅士，留着整齐的胡须，腿也很修长），她立即将克劳利设立为一个行政区，派出两名议员进入议会；从那次杰出的访问那天起，这个地方就被称为女王克劳利，并一直沿用至今。尽管随着时间的推移，以及帝国、城市和自治市镇中年龄所产生的突变，皇后克劳利不再像贝丝皇后时代那样人口稠密——不，已经沦落到了这样的状况：这个曾经被称为腐烂的行政区——然而，正如皮特·克劳利爵士会以他优雅的方式完全公正地说，“腐烂！”被绞死——它每年给我带来一千五百美元。”

Sir Pitt Crawley (named after the great Commoner) was the son of Walpole Crawley, first Baronet, of the Tape and Sealing-Wax Office in the reign of George II., when he was impeached for peculation, as were a great number of other honest gentlemen of those days; and Walpole Crawley was, as need scarcely be said, son of John Churchill Crawley, named after the celebrated military commander of the reign of Queen Anne. The family tree (which hangs up at Queen’s Crawley) furthermore mentions Charles Stuart, afterwards called Barebones Crawley, son of the Crawley of James the First’s time; and finally, Queen Elizabeth’s Crawley, who is represented as the foreground of the picture in his forked beard and armour. Out of his waistcoat, as usual, grows a tree, on the main branches of which the above illustrious names are inscribed. Close by the name of Sir Pitt Crawley, Baronet (the subject of the present memoir), are written that of his brother, the Reverend Bute Crawley (the great Commoner was in disgrace when the reverend gentleman was born), rector of Crawley-cum-Snailby, and of various other male and female members of the Crawley family.
皮特·克劳利爵士（以伟大的平民的名字命名）是乔治二世统治时期胶带和密封蜡办公室的第一任准男爵沃波尔·克劳利的儿子，当时他和其他许多人一样因贪污罪而被弹劾。那时的正直绅士；不用说，沃波尔·克劳利是约翰·丘吉尔·克劳利的儿子，约翰·丘吉尔·克劳利是以安妮女王统治时期著名的军事指挥官的名字命名的。家谱（挂在女王克劳利）还提到了查尔斯·斯图尔特（Charles Stuart），后来被称为巴里博内斯·克劳利（Barebones Crawley），是詹姆斯一世时代克劳利的儿子。最后是伊丽莎白女王的克劳利，他在照片的前景中留着分叉的胡须，身穿盔甲。像往常一样，他的背心里长出了一棵树，其主枝上刻着上述显赫的名字。在皮特·克劳利男爵爵士的名字旁边（本回忆录的主题），写着他的兄弟布特·克劳利牧师（这位伟大的平民在这位尊贵的绅士出生时感到耻辱），克劳利兼学校的校长-斯奈尔比，以及克劳利家族的其他男性和女性成员。

Sir Pitt was first married to Grizzel, sixth daughter of Mungo Binkie, Lord Binkie, and cousin, in consequence, of Mr. Dundas. She brought him two sons: Pitt, named not so much after his father as after the heaven-born minister; and Rawdon Crawley, from the Prince of Wales’s friend, whom his Majesty George IV forgot so completely. Many years after her ladyship’s demise, Sir Pitt led to the altar Rosa, daughter of Mr. G. Dawson, of Mudbury, by whom he had two daughters, for whose benefit Miss Rebecca Sharp was now engaged as governess. It will be seen that the young lady was come into a family of very genteel connexions, and was about to move in a much more distinguished circle than that humble one which she had just quitted in Russell Square.
皮特爵士的第一任妻子是宾基勋爵蒙戈·宾基的第六个女儿格里泽尔，因此也是邓达斯先生的表弟。她给他带来了两个儿子：皮特，与其说是以他父亲的名字命名，不如说以天上诞生的牧师命名；还有罗登·克劳利，来自威尔士亲王的朋友，乔治四世陛下完全忘记了他。夫人去世多年后，皮特爵士找到了穆德伯里的道森先生的女儿罗莎，他与道森先生育有两个女儿，为了她们的利益，丽贝卡·夏普小姐现在被聘为家庭教师。可以看出，这位年轻的女士出生在一个有着非常上流社会关系的家庭，并且即将进入一个比她刚刚退出罗素广场的那个卑微的圈子要显赫得多的圈子。

She had received her orders to join her pupils, in a note which was written upon an old envelope, and which contained the following words:
她收到了加入学生的命令，纸条写在一个旧信封上，其中包含以下文字：

Sir Pitt Crawley begs Miss Sharp and baggidge may be hear on Tuesday, as I leaf for Queen’s Crawley to-morrow morning ERLY.
皮特·克劳利爵士恳求夏普小姐，周二可能会听到巴吉奇的声音，因为我明天早上将前往皇后克劳利。

Great Gaunt Street.
伟大的冈特街。

Rebecca had never seen a Baronet, as far as she knew, and as soon as she had taken leave of Amelia, and counted the guineas which goodnatured Mr. Sedley had put into a purse for her, and as soon as she had done wiping her eyes with her handkerchief (which operation she concluded the very moment the carriage had turned the corner of the street), she began to depict in her own mind what a Baronet must be. ‘I wonder, does he wear a star?’ thought she, ‘or is it only lords that wear stars? But he will be very handsomely dressed in a court suit, with ruffles, and his hair a little powdered, like Mr. Wroughton at Covent Garden. I suppose he will be awfully proud, and that I shall be treated most contemptuously. Still I must bear my hard lot as well as I can—at least, I shall be amongst GENTLEFOLKS, and not with vulgar city people”: and she fell to thinking of her Russell Square friends with that very same philosophical bitterness with which, in a certain apologue, the fox is represented as speaking of the grapes.
据她所知，丽贝卡从未见过男爵，当她告别阿米莉亚，数了好心的塞德利先生为她放进钱包里的几尼后，她擦干净了自己的身体。她用手帕的眼睛（马车拐过街角的那一刻她就完成了这一操作），她开始在自己的脑海中描绘准男爵的形象。 “我想知道，他戴的是星星吗？”她想，“还是只有领主才戴星星？但他会穿着非常漂亮的宫廷西装，有褶边，头发上撒点粉，就像考文特花园的劳顿先生一样。我想他会非常骄傲，而我会受到最轻蔑的对待。尽管如此，我还是必须尽我所能地忍受我的艰辛——至少，我应该和绅士在一起，而不是和粗俗的城里人在一起。在某个辩解中，狐狸被描述为在谈论葡萄。

Having passed through Gaunt Square into Great Gaunt Street, the carriage at length stopped at a tall gloomy house between two other tall gloomy houses, each with a hatchment over the middle drawingroom window; as is the custom of houses in Great Gaunt Street, in which gloomy locality death seems to reign perpetual. The shutters of the first-floor windows of Sir Pitt’s mansion were closed—those of the dining-room were partially open, and the blinds neatly covered up in old newspapers.
穿过冈特广场，进入大冈特街，马车终于停在另外两座高大阴暗房子之间的一栋高大阴暗房子前，每栋高大阴暗的房子中间客厅的窗户上都有一个舱口。就像大冈特街的房屋习俗一样，在这条阴暗的地方，死亡似乎永远占据着统治地位。皮特爵士宅邸一楼窗户的百叶窗关着，餐厅的百叶窗半开着，百叶窗整齐地用旧报纸遮盖起来。

John, the groom, who had driven the carriage alone, did not care to descend to ring the bell; and so prayed a passing milk-boy to perform that office for him. When the bell was rung, a head appeared between the interstices of the dining-room shutters, and the door was opened by a man in drab breeches and gaiters, with a dirty old coat, a foul old neckcloth lashed round his bristly neck, a shining bald head, a leering red face, a pair of twinkling grey eyes, and a mouth perpetually on the grin.
独自驾驶马车的新郎约翰并没有下楼去按门铃，而是亲自下楼去按门铃。于是祈求一位路过的送奶童替他履行这一职责。当铃声响起时，餐厅百叶窗的缝隙中出现了一个头颅，门被一个穿着土褐色马裤和绑腿的男人打开了，他穿着一件肮脏的旧外套，一条肮脏的旧领巾绑在他毛茸茸的脖子上，闪亮的秃头，一张红红的脸，一双闪烁着光芒的灰色眼睛，一张永远挂着笑容的嘴。

‘This Sir Pitt Crawley’s?’ says John, from the box.
“这是皮特·克劳利爵士的吗？”包厢里的约翰说道。

‘Ees,’ says the man at the door, with a nod.
“是的，”门口的男人点点头说道。

‘Hand down these ‘ere trunks then,’ said John.
“那就把这些箱子交出来吧，”约翰说。

‘Hand ‘n down yourself,’ said the porter.
“你自己交吧，”搬运工说。

‘Don’t you see I can’t leave my hosses? Come, bear a hand, my fine feller, and Miss will give you some beer,’ said John, with a horselaugh, for he was no longer respectful to Miss Sharp, as her connexion with the family was broken off, and as she had given nothing to the servants on coming away.
‘你没看到我不能丢下我的马吗？来吧，伸出援手，我的好朋友，小姐会给你一些啤酒，”约翰哈哈大笑地说，因为他不再尊重夏普小姐了，因为她与家人的联系被切断了，而且她已经离开时没有给仆人任何东西。

The bald-headed man, taking his hands out of his breeches pockets, advanced on this summons, and throwing Miss Sharp’s trunk over his shoulder, carried it into the house.
秃头男子从马裤口袋里掏出双手，迎着召唤向前走去，把夏普小姐的箱子扔到肩上，拎进屋里。

‘Take this basket and shawl, if you please, and open the door,’ said Miss Sharp, and descended from the carriage in much indignation. ‘I shall write to Mr. Sedley and inform him of your conduct,’ said she to the groom.
“请把这个篮子和披肩拿走，然后打开车门。”夏普小姐说着，气愤地下了马车。 “我会写信给塞德利先生，告诉他你的行为，”她对新郎说。

‘Don’t,’ replied that functionary. ‘I hope you’ve forgot nothink? Miss ‘Melia’s gownds—have you got them—as the lady’s maid was to have ‘ad? I hope they’ll fit you. Shut the door, Jim, you’ll get no good out of ‘ER,’ continued John, pointing with his thumb towards Miss Sharp: ‘a bad lot, I tell you, a bad lot,’ and so saying, Mr. Sedley’s groom drove away. The truth is, he was attached to the lady’s maid in question, and indignant that she should have been robbed of her perquisites.
“不要，”那位官员回答道。 ‘我希望你没有忘记nothink？梅莉亚小姐的礼服——你拿到了吗——就像这位女士的女仆要穿的那样？我希望它们适合你。关上门，吉姆，你在急诊室里不会得到任何好处，”约翰继续说道，用拇指指着夏普小姐：“很糟糕，我告诉你，很糟糕，”如此说，塞德利先生的新郎开车走了。事实是，他对这位女士的女仆很依恋，并对她的额外津贴被剥夺感到愤慨。

On entering the dining-room, by the orders of the individual in gaiters, Rebecca found that apartment not more cheerful than such rooms usually are, when genteel families are out of town. The faithful chambers seem, as it were, to mourn the absence of their masters. The turkey carpet has rolled itself up, and retired sulkily under the sideboard: the pictures have hidden their faces behind old sheets of brown paper: the ceiling lamp is muffled up in a dismal sack of brown holland: the window-curtains have disappeared under all sorts of shabby envelopes: the marble bust of Sir Walpole Crawley is looking from its black corner at the bare boards and the oiled fire-irons, and the empty card-racks over the mantelpiece: the cellaret has lurked away behind the carpet: the chairs are turned up heads and tails along the walls: and in the dark corner opposite the statue, is an old-fashioned crabbed knife-box, locked and sitting on a dumb waiter.
丽贝卡按照戴绑腿的人的命令进入餐厅，发现这间公寓并不比上流家庭出城时通常的房间更令人愉快。忠诚的内室似乎在为主人的缺席而哀悼。火鸡地毯已经卷起来，闷闷不乐地退到餐具柜下面：照片把它们的脸藏在旧牛皮纸后面：吸顶灯被一袋惨淡的棕色荷兰包遮住了：窗帘已经消失在所有的东西下面。各种破旧的信封：沃波尔·克劳利爵士的大理石半身像从黑色的角落里看着光秃秃的木板和涂油的熨斗，以及壁炉架上的空卡片架：地窖潜伏在地毯后面：椅子沿着墙壁首尾翻转：在雕像对面的黑暗角落里，有一个老式的螃蟹刀盒，锁着，放在一个哑巴侍者身上。

Two kitchen chairs, and a round table, and an attenuated old poker and tongs were, however, gathered round the fire-place, as was a saucepan over a feeble sputtering fire. There was a bit of cheese and bread, and a tin candlestick on the table, and a little black porter in a pint-pot.
然而，两张厨房椅子、一张圆桌、一把破旧的拨火棍和火钳都聚集在壁炉周围，还有一个平底锅放在微弱的溅射火上。桌上有一些奶酪和面包，还有一个锡烛台，还有一品脱壶里的一点黑波特啤酒。

‘Had your dinner, I suppose? It is not too warm for you? Like a drop of beer?’
“我想你吃过晚饭了吗？”对你来说不太温暖吗？就像一滴啤酒一样？

‘Where is Sir Pitt Crawley?’ said Miss Sharp majestically.
“皮特·克劳利爵士在哪儿？”夏普小姐威严地问道。

‘He, he! I’m Sir Pitt Crawley. Reklect you owe me a pint for bringing down your luggage. He, he! Ask Tinker if I aynt. Mrs. Tinker, Miss Sharp; Miss Governess, Mrs. Charwoman. Ho, ho!’
'呵呵！我是皮特·克劳利爵士。想想你欠我一品脱啤酒，因为我把你的行李拿了下来。呵呵！问问廷克我是否不喜欢。廷克夫人，夏普小姐；戈弗内斯小姐，查女太太。嗬，嗬！

The lady addressed as Mrs. Tinker at this moment made her appearance with a pipe and a paper of tobacco, for which she had been despatched a minute before Miss Sharp’s arrival; and she handed the articles over to Sir Pitt, who had taken his seat by the fire.
此刻，这位被称为廷克夫人的女士带着烟斗和烟纸出现了，她是在夏普小姐到达前一分钟被派去取的。她把这些物品交给皮特爵士，皮特爵士坐在火边。

‘Where’s the farden?’ said he. ‘I gave you three halfpence. Where’s the change, old Tinker?’
“法登在哪儿？”他问道。 “我给了你三个半便士。老修补匠，零钱在哪里？

‘There!’ replied Mrs. Tinker, flinging down the coin; it’s only baronets as cares about farthings.’
“在那里！”廷克太太回答道，把硬币扔了下来。只有男爵才会关心一分钱。

‘A farthing a day is seven shillings a year,’ answered the M.P.; ‘seven shillings a year is the interest of seven guineas. Take care of your farthings, old Tinker, and your guineas will come quite nat’ral.’
“一天一文钱就是一年七先令，”议员回答道。 ‘一年七先令相当于七几尼的利息。照顾好你的小钱，老修补匠，你的几尼就会很自然地来了。

‘You may be sure it’s Sir Pitt Crawley, young woman,’ said Mrs. Tinker, surlily; ‘because he looks to his farthings. You’ll know him better afore long.’
“你可以肯定这是皮特·克劳利爵士，年轻的女人，”廷克夫人阴沉地说。 ‘因为他只顾自己的钱。不久你就会更了解他了。

‘And like me none the worse, Miss Sharp,’ said the old gentleman, with an air almost of politeness. ‘I must be just before I’m generous.’
“夏普小姐，跟我一样一点也不差，”老先生带着一种近乎礼貌的神情说道。 “我必须在我慷慨之前。”

‘He never gave away a farthing in his life,’ growled Tinker.
“他一生中从未捐出过一分钱，”廷克咆哮道。

‘Never, and never will: it’s against my principle. Go and get another chair from the kitchen, Tinker, if you want to sit down; and then we’ll have a bit of supper.’
“永远不会，也永远不会：这违背了我的原则。如果你想坐下，修补匠，去厨房拿另一把椅子；然后我们会吃点晚饭。

Presently the baronet plunged a fork into the saucepan on the fire, and withdrew from the pot a piece of tripe and an onion, which he divided into pretty equal portions, and of which he partook with Mrs. Tinker. ‘You see, Miss Sharp, when I’m not here Tinker’s on board wages: when I’m in town she dines with the family. Haw! haw! I’m glad Miss Sharp’s not hungry, ain’t you, Tink?’ And they fell to upon their frugal supper.
不久，从男爵把叉子插入火上的平底锅里，从锅里取出一块牛肚和一个洋葱，他把它们分成相当等份，和廷克太太一起吃了。 “你看，夏普小姐，当我不在这里时，廷克的工资是船上的；当我在城里时，她和家人一起吃饭。哇！哈！我很高兴夏普小姐不饿，不是吗，天克？”然后他们就吃起了节俭的晚餐。

After supper Sir Pitt Crawley began to smoke his pipe; and when it became quite dark, he lighted the rushlight in the tin candlestick, and producing from an interminable pocket a huge mass of papers, began reading them, and putting them in order.
晚饭后，皮特·克劳利爵士开始抽烟斗。当天色完全黑下来时，他点燃了锡烛台上的灯芯草灯，从一个无穷无尽的口袋里掏出一大堆文件，开始阅读它们，并将它们整理好。

‘I’m here on law business, my dear, and that’s how it happens that I shall have the pleasure of such a pretty travelling companion tomorrow.’
“我是来处理法律事务的，亲爱的，所以明天我就有幸遇到一位如此漂亮的旅伴。”

‘He’s always at law business,’ said Mrs. Tinker, taking up the pot of porter.
“他总是忙着做法律生意，”廷克太太说，端起了黑啤酒。

‘Drink and drink about,’ said the Baronet. ‘Yes; my dear, Tinker is quite right: I’ve lost and won more lawsuits than any man in England. Look here at Crawley, Bart. v. Snaffle. I’ll throw him over, or my name’s not Pitt Crawley. Podder and another versus Crawley, Bart. Overseers of Snaily parish against Crawley, Bart. They can’t prove it’s common: I’ll defy ‘em; the land’s mine. It no more belongs to the parish than it does to you or Tinker here. I’ll beat ‘em, if it cost me a thousand guineas. Look over the papers; you may if you like, my dear. Do you write a good hand? I’ll make you useful when we’re at Queen’s Crawley, depend on it, Miss Sharp. Now the dowager’s dead I want some one.’
“喝吧，喝吧。”从男爵说道。 '是的;亲爱的，廷克说得很对：我输掉和赢得的诉讼比英国任何人都多。看看克劳利，巴特。 v. 斯纳夫勒。我会把他扔下去，否则我就不叫皮特·克劳利了。波德和另一个人对阵克劳利、巴特。斯奈利教区的监督者对抗克劳利，巴特。他们无法证明这很常见：我会反抗他们；土地是我的。它不再属于教区，就像它不再属于你或这里的修补匠一样。即使花上一千几尼，我也会打败他们。查看报纸；如果你愿意的话可以，亲爱的。你写得一手好字吗？当我们在皇后克劳利时，我会让你派上用场的，放心吧，夏普小姐。现在太后死了，我想要一个。”

‘She was as bad as he,’ said Tinker. ‘She took the law of every one of her tradesmen; and turned away forty-eight footmen in four year.’
“她和他一样坏，”廷克说。 “她接受了每一位商人的法律；四年内拒绝了四十八名步兵。”

‘She was close—very close,’ said the Baronet, simply; ‘but she was a valyble woman to me, and saved me a steward.’—And in this confidential strain, and much to the amusement of the new-comer, the conversation continued for a considerable time. Whatever Sir Pitt Crawley’s qualities might be, good or bad, he did not make the least disguise of them. He talked of himself incessantly, sometimes in the coarsest and vulgarest Hampshire accent; sometimes adopting the tone of a man of the world. And so, with injunctions to Miss Sharp to be ready at five in the morning, he bade her good night. ‘You’ll sleep with Tinker to-night,’ he said; ‘it’s a big bed, and there’s room for two. Lady Crawley died in it. Good night.’
“她很接近——非常接近，”从男爵简单地说。 “但她对我来说是一个有价值的女人，救了我一个管家。”——在这种保密的语气中，谈话持续了相当长的一段时间，这让新来的人感到很有趣。无论皮特·克劳利爵士的品质如何，无论好坏，他都没有做出丝毫掩饰。他不停地谈论自己，有时用最粗俗的汉普郡口音。有时会采取世俗之人的语气。于是，他吩咐夏普小姐早上五点准备好，然后向她道晚安。 “今晚你要和廷克一起睡，”他说。 “床很大，可以住两个人。”克劳利夫人死在其中。晚安。'

Sir Pitt went off after this benediction, and the solemn Tinker, rushlight in hand, led the way up the great bleak stone stairs, past the great dreary drawing-room doors, with the handles muffled up in paper, into the great front bedroom, where Lady Crawley had slept her last. The bed and chamber were so funereal and gloomy, you might have fancied, not only that Lady Crawley died in the room, but that her ghost inhabited it. Rebecca sprang about the apartment, however, with the greatest liveliness, and had peeped into the huge wardrobes, and the closets, and the cupboards, and tried the drawers which were locked, and examined the dreary pictures and toilette appointments, while the old charwoman was saying her prayers. ‘I shouldn’t like to sleep in this yeer bed without a good conscience, Miss,’ said the old woman. ‘There’s room for us and a half-dozen of ghosts in it,’ says Rebecca. ‘Tell me all about Lady Crawley and Sir Pitt Crawley, and everybody, my DEAR Mrs. Tinker.’
皮特爵士在这句祝福之后就走了，庄严的修补匠，手里拿着灯芯草，带路走上荒凉的石阶，穿过沉闷的客厅大门，把手用纸糊住了，走进前面的大卧室，克劳利夫人最后睡的地方。床和房间是如此葬礼和阴暗，你可能会想象，不仅克劳利夫人死在房间里，而且她的鬼魂也住在里面。然而，丽贝卡在公寓里跳来跳去，非常活泼，她偷看了巨大的衣柜、壁橱和橱柜，尝试了锁着的抽屉，检查了沉闷的照片和盥洗用品，而老女佣则正在祈祷。 “小姐，我不应该心怀愧疚地睡在这张床上。”老妇人说道。 “里面有我们的空间和六个鬼魂，”丽贝卡说。 “告诉我关于克劳利夫人和皮特·克劳利爵士以及大家的一切，我亲爱的廷克夫人。”

But old Tinker was not to be pumped by this little cross-questioner; and signifying to her that bed was a place for sleeping, not conversation, set up in her corner of the bed such a snore as only the nose of innocence can produce. Rebecca lay awake for a long, long time, thinking of the morrow, and of the new world into which she was going, and of her chances of success there. The rushlight flickered in the basin. The mantelpiece cast up a great black shadow, over half of a mouldy old sampler, which her defunct ladyship had worked, no doubt, and over two little family pictures of young lads, one in a college gown, and the other in a red jacket like a soldier. When she went to sleep, Rebecca chose that one to dream about.
但老廷克可不会被这个小小反问者所激怒。向她表明床是睡觉的地方，而不是谈话的地方，在她的床角设置了只有天真的鼻子才能发出的鼾声。丽贝卡醒了很长一段时间，想着明天，想着她即将进入的新世界，想着她在那里成功的机会。灯芯草的光芒在水池里闪烁。壁炉架上投射出巨大的黑色阴影，覆盖着半个发霉的旧采样器，无疑是她已故的夫人所用过的，覆盖着两张年​​轻小伙子的小家庭照片，一个穿着大学礼服，另一个穿着红色夹克。像一名士兵。当丽贝卡入睡时，她选择了那个梦。

At four o’clock, on such a roseate summer’s morning as even made Great Gaunt Street look cheerful, the faithful Tinker, having wakened her bedfellow, and bid her prepare for departure, unbarred and unbolted the great hall door (the clanging and clapping whereof startled the sleeping echoes in the street), and taking her way into Oxford Street, summoned a coach from a stand there. It is needless to particularize the number of the vehicle, or to state that the driver was stationed thus early in the neighbourhood of Swallow Street, in hopes that some young buck, reeling homeward from the tavern, might need the aid of his vehicle, and pay him with the generosity of intoxication.
四点钟，在这样一个玫瑰色的夏日早晨，甚至让大冈特街看起来都充满了欢乐，忠实的修补匠叫醒了她的同床者，吩咐她准备出发，打开了大厅的大门（门的叮当声和拍手声）惊动了街上沉睡的回声），然后她走进牛津街，从那里的车站召唤了一辆马车。无需具体说明车辆的编号，也无需说明司机这么早就驻扎在燕子街附近，希望某个从酒馆摇摇晃晃地回家的年轻人可能需要他的车辆的帮助，并且以慷慨的陶醉来回报他。

It is likewise needless to say that the driver, if he had any such hopes as those above stated, was grossly disappointed; and that the worthy Baronet whom he drove to the City did not give him one single penny more than his fare. It was in vain that Jehu appealed and stormed; that he flung down Miss Sharp’s bandboxes in the gutter at the ‘Necks, and swore he would take the law of his fare.
同样不用说，如果司机有上述的希望的话，他也感到非常失望。他开车送他到城里的那个值得尊敬的男爵并没有比他的车费多给他一分钱。耶户的呼吁和猛烈攻击都是徒劳的。他把夏普小姐的乐队盒扔进了“脖子”的阴沟里，并发誓他会接受他的票价法则。

‘You’d better not,’ said one of the ostlers; ‘it’s Sir Pitt Crawley.’
“你最好不要这么做，”一位马夫说道。 “我是皮特·克劳利爵士。”

‘So it is, Joe,’ cried the Baronet, approvingly; ‘and I’d like to see the man can do me.’
“是的，乔，”从男爵赞许地喊道。 “我希望看到这个人能做到我。”

‘So should oi,’ said Joe, grinning sulkily, and mounting the Baronet’s baggage on the roof of the coach.
“哦，也应该如此，”乔阴沉地笑着说，然后把从男爵的行李放在马车的车顶上。

‘Keep the box for me, Leader,’ exclaims the Member of Parliament to the coachman; who replied, ‘Yes, Sir Pitt,’ with a touch of his hat, and rage in his soul (for he had promised the box to a young gentleman from Cambridge, who would have given a crown to a certainty), and Miss Sharp was accommodated with a back seat inside the carriage, which might be said to be carrying her into the wide world.
“领袖，把盒子留给我吧，”国会议员对车夫喊道。他回答说：“是的，皮特爵士，”他碰了碰帽子，心中充满了愤怒（因为他已经把这个盒子许诺给了一位来自剑桥的年轻绅士，他肯定会给一顶王冠），而夏普小姐车厢里有一个后座，可以说是带着她走向了广阔的世界。

How the young man from Cambridge sulkily put his five great-coats in front; but was reconciled when little Miss Sharp was made to quit the carriage, and mount up beside him—when he covered her up in one of his Benjamins, and became perfectly good-humoured—how the asthmatic gentleman, the prim lady, who declared upon her sacred honour she had never travelled in a public carriage before (there is always such a lady in a coach—Alas! was; for the coaches, where are they?), and the fat widow with the brandy-bottle, took their places inside—how the porter asked them all for money, and got sixpence from the gentleman and five greasy halfpence from the fat widow—and how the carriage at length drove away—now threading the dark lanes of Aldersgate, anon clattering by the Blue Cupola of St. Paul’s, jingling rapidly by the strangers’ entry of Fleet-Market, which, with Exeter ‘Change, has now departed to the world of shadows—how they passed the White Bear in Piccadilly, and saw the dew rising up from the market-gardens of Knightsbridge—how Turnhamgreen, Brentwood, Bagshot, were passed—need not be told here. But the writer of these pages, who has pursued in former days, and in the same bright weather, the same remarkable journey, cannot but think of it with a sweet and tender regret. Where is the road now, and its merry incidents of life? Is there no Chelsea or Greenwich for the old honest pimple-nosed coachmen? I wonder where are they, those good fellows? Is old Weller alive or dead? and the waiters, yea, and the inns at which they waited, and the cold rounds of beef inside, and the stunted ostler, with his blue nose and clinking pail, where is he, and where is his generation? To those great geniuses now in petticoats, who shall write novels for the beloved reader’s children, these men and things will be as much legend and history as Nineveh, or Coeur de Lion, or Jack Sheppard. For them stage-coaches will have become romances—a team of four bays as fabulous as Bucephalus or Black Bess. Ah, how their coats shone, as the stable-men pulled their clothes off, and away they went—ah, how their tails shook, as with smoking sides at the stage’s end they demurely walked away into the inn-yard. Alas! we shall never hear the horn sing at midnight, or see the pike-gates fly open any more. Whither, however, is the light four-inside Trafalgar coach carrying us? Let us be set down at Queen’s Crawley without further divagation, and see how Miss Rebecca Sharp speeds there.
这位来自剑桥的年轻人如何闷闷不乐地将他的五件大衣放在前面；但是，当小夏普小姐被要求下马车，登上他身边时——当他用一件本杰明给她盖上衣服，心情变得非常好——这位患有哮喘病的绅士，这位拘谨的女士，如何宣称她神圣的荣誉，她以前从未乘坐过公共马车（马车上总是有这样一位女士——唉！是的；马车，他们在哪里？），而那个拿着白兰地酒瓶的胖寡妇取代了他们的位置里面——看门人如何向他们所有人要钱，从绅士那里得到了六便士，从胖寡妇那里得到了五块油腻的半便士——马车最后是如何开走的——现在穿过奥尔德斯盖特的黑暗小巷，不久就在蓝色圆顶的旁边叮叮当当地响了起来。圣保罗教堂因陌生人进入舰队市场而迅速响起，随着埃克塞特的“变革”，舰队市场现在已经离开了阴影的世界——他们如何经过皮卡迪利的白熊，看到露水从市场升起——骑士桥花园——特纳姆格林、布伦特伍德、巴沙特是如何经过的——这里无需赘述。但本书的作者，在过去的日子里，在同样灿烂的天气里，同样非凡的旅程中，不禁怀着甜蜜而温柔的遗憾想起它。现在路在哪里，生活中的快乐事又在哪里？难道没有切尔西或格林威治适合那些长着粉刺鼻子的老老实实的车夫吗？我想知道那些好人他们在哪里？老韦勒是死是活？还有侍者，是的，还有他们等待的客栈，还有里面的冷牛肉，还有发育不良的马夫，他的蓝鼻子和叮当作响的水桶，他在哪里，他的一代又在哪里？ 对于那些现在穿着衬裙的伟大天才来说，他们将为心爱的读者的孩子们写小说，这些人和事物将像尼尼微、狮子之心或杰克谢泼德一样成为传奇和历史。对他们来说，驿站马车将成为浪漫——由四个车位组成的团队，就像布西发拉斯或黑贝丝一样神话般。啊，他们的外套多么闪闪发光，马夫们脱掉衣服，然后走了——啊，他们的尾巴多么摇晃，就像在舞台尽头抽烟一样，他们端庄地走进旅馆院子。唉!我们将永远不会在午夜听到号角声，也不会再看到长矛门飞开。然而，这辆特拉法加轻型四人车厢载着我们去往何处呢？让我们在皇后克劳利停下来，不再分道扬镳，看看丽贝卡·夏普小姐是如何加速到达那里的。

Chapter VIII
第八章


Private and Confidential
私人和保密的

Miss Rebecca Sharp to Miss Amelia Sedley, Russell Square, London. (Free.—Pitt Crawley.)
丽贝卡·夏普小姐对阿米莉亚·塞德利小姐，伦敦罗素广场。 （免费。——皮特·克劳利。）

MY DEAREST, SWEETEST AMELIA,
我最亲爱的、最可爱的阿米莉亚，

With what mingled joy and sorrow do I take up the pen to write to my dearest friend! Oh, what a change between to-day and yesterday! Now I am friendless and alone; yesterday I was at home, in the sweet company of a sister, whom I shall ever, ever cherish!
我怀着怎样的喜悦和悲伤，拿起笔给我最亲爱的朋友写信！哦，今天和昨天相比有多么大的变化啊！现在我孤身一人，没有朋友；昨天我在家，有一位姐姐甜蜜地陪伴着我，我将永远、永远珍惜她！

I will not tell you in what tears and sadness I passed the fatal night in which I separated from you. YOU went on Tuesday to joy and happiness, with your mother and YOUR DEVOTED YOUNG SOLDIER by your side; and I thought of you all night, dancing at the Perkins’s, the prettiest, I am sure, of all the young ladies at the Ball. I was brought by the groom in the old carriage to Sir Pitt Crawley’s town house, where, after John the groom had behaved most rudely and insolently to me (alas! ‘twas safe to insult poverty and misfortune!), I was given over to Sir P.’s care, and made to pass the night in an old gloomy bed, and by the side of a horrid gloomy old charwoman, who keeps the house. I did not sleep one single wink the whole night.
我不会告诉你我是在怎样的泪水和悲伤中度过了与你分离的那个致命的夜晚。周二，您带着母亲和忠诚的年轻士兵在您身边度过了欢乐和幸福的时光；我整个晚上都在想着你，在珀金斯舞厅跳舞，我确信，你是舞会上所有年轻女士中最漂亮的。马夫用旧马车把我带到皮特·克劳利爵士的联排别墅，在那里，新郎约翰对我表现得非常粗鲁和无礼（唉！侮辱贫穷和不幸是安全的！），我被交给了P先生的照顾，让他在一张昏暗的旧床上过夜，旁边是一个可怕的、阴沉的老女佣，她负责看守房子。我一整夜没有合眼。

Sir Pitt is not what we silly girls, when we used to read Cecilia at Chiswick, imagined a baronet must have been. Anything, indeed, less like Lord Orville cannot be imagined. Fancy an old, stumpy, short, vulgar, and very dirty man, in old clothes and shabby old gaiters, who smokes a horrid pipe, and cooks his own horrid supper in a saucepan. He speaks with a country accent, and swore a great deal at the old charwoman, at the hackney coachman who drove us to the inn where the coach went from, and on which I made the journey OUTSIDE FOR THE GREATER PART OF THE WAY.
皮特爵士并不是我们这些愚蠢的女孩，当我们在奇西克读塞西莉亚时，想象中的从男爵。事实上，任何不像奥维尔勋爵的事情都是无法想象的。想象一个又老、矮胖、矮小、粗俗、肮脏的男人，穿着旧衣服，戴着破旧的绑腿，抽着可怕的烟斗，用平底锅做自己可怕的晚餐。他说话带着乡村口音，对老女佣和出租我们到客栈的马车夫说了很多脏话，他把我们带到了客栈，我在客栈上走了很长一段路。

I was awakened at daybreak by the charwoman, and having arrived at the inn, was at first placed inside the coach. But, when we got to a place called Leakington, where the rain began to fall very heavily—will you believe it?—I was forced to come outside; for Sir Pitt is a proprietor of the coach, and as a passenger came at Mudbury, who wanted an inside place, I was obliged to go outside in the rain, where, however, a young gentleman from Cambridge College sheltered me very kindly in one of his several great coats.
天一亮，我就被女佣叫醒，到达客栈后，我先被安置在马车里。但是，当我们到达一个叫利金顿的地方时，那里的雨开始下得很大——你相信吗？——我被迫到了外面。因为皮特爵士是客车的老板，当一名乘客来到马德伯里时，他想要一个内部空间，我不得不在雨中走到外面，然而，一位来自剑桥学院的年轻绅士非常友善地在一个房间里为我提供了庇护。他的几件大衣

This gentleman and the guard seemed to know Sir Pitt very well, and laughed at him a great deal. They both agreed in calling him an old screw; which means a very stingy, avaricious person. He never gives any money to anybody, they said (and this meanness I hate); and the young gentleman made me remark that we drove very slow for the last two stages on the road, because Sir Pitt was on the box, and because he is proprietor of the horses for this part of the journey. ‘But won’t I flog ‘em on to Squashmore, when I take the ribbons?’ said the young Cantab. ‘And sarve ‘em right, Master Jack,’ said the guard. When I comprehended the meaning of this phrase, and that Master Jack intended to drive the rest of the way, and revenge himself on Sir Pitt’s horses, of course I laughed too.
这位绅士和警卫似乎很了解皮特爵士，并经常嘲笑他。他们都同意称他为“老螺丝钉”。这意味着一个非常小气、贪婪的人。他们说，他从不给任何人任何钱（我讨厌这种卑鄙行为）；这位年轻的绅士让我说我们在路上的最后两个赛段开得很慢，因为皮特爵士在包厢里，而且因为他是这部分旅程的马匹的所有者。 “但是，当我接过丝带时，我不会把他们鞭打到斯库什莫尔吗？”年轻的坎塔布说。 “杰克少爷，救救他们吧，”守卫说道。当我明白了这句话的意思，明白了杰克大师打算继续赶完剩下的路，并骑着皮特爵士的马报仇时，我当然也笑了。

A carriage and four splendid horses, covered with armorial bearings, however, awaited us at Mudbury, four miles from Queen’s Crawley, and we made our entrance to the baronet’s park in state. There is a fine avenue of a mile long leading to the house, and the woman at the lodge-gate (over the pillars of which are a serpent and a dove, the supporters of the Crawley arms), made us a number of curtsies as she flung open the old iron carved doors, which are something like those at odious Chiswick.
然而，一辆马车和四匹华丽的马，上面都挂满了徽章，在距离女王克劳利四英里的穆德伯里等着我们，我们进入了州立男爵公园。有一条一英里长的漂亮大道通向房子，小屋门口的女人（门口的柱子上有一条蛇和一只鸽子，它们是克劳利臂章的支持者），向我们行了许多屈膝礼，她猛地打开旧的铁雕门，这些门有点像可恶的奇西克的门。

‘There’s an avenue,’ said Sir Pitt, ‘a mile long. There’s six thousand pound of timber in them there trees. Do you call that nothing?’ He pronounced avenue—EVENUE, and nothing—NOTHINK, so droll; and he had a Mr. Hodson, his hind from Mudbury, into the carriage with him, and they talked about distraining, and selling up, and draining and subsoiling, and a great deal about tenants and farming—much more than I could understand. Sam Miles had been caught poaching, and Peter Bailey had gone to the workhouse at last. ‘Serve him right,’ said Sir Pitt; ‘him and his family has been cheating me on that farm these hundred and fifty years.’ Some old tenant, I suppose, who could not pay his rent. Sir Pitt might have said ‘he and his family,’ to be sure; but rich baronets do not need to be careful about grammar, as poor governesses must be.
“有一条大道，”皮特爵士说，“一英里长。这些树有六千磅木材。你管这叫什么也没有吗？他带着霍德森先生，他的母鹿来自马德伯里，和他一起上了马车，他们谈论扣押、出售、排水和深土，以及很多关于佃户和农业的事情——比我能理解的多得多。萨姆·迈尔斯偷猎被捕，彼得·贝利最后去了济贫院。 “为他服务是对的，”皮特爵士说。 “一百五十年来，他和他的家人一直在那个农场欺骗我。”我想，是某个老佃户，付不起房租。当然，皮特爵士可能会说“他和他的家人”；但富有的男爵不需要像贫穷的家庭女教师那样注意语法。

As we passed, I remarked a beautiful church-spire rising above some old elms in the park; and before them, in the midst of a lawn, and some outhouses, an old red house with tall chimneys covered with ivy, and the windows shining in the sun. ‘Is that your church, sir?’ I said.
当我们经过时，我注意到公园里有一座美丽的教堂尖顶矗立在一些老榆树上。在他们面前，在草坪和一些外屋中间，有一座红色的老房子，高大的烟囱爬满了常春藤，窗户在阳光下闪闪发光。 “那是你的教堂吗，先生？”我说。

‘Yes, hang it,’ (said Sir Pitt, only he used, dear, A MUCH WICKEDER WORD); ‘how’s Buty, Hodson? Buty’s my brother Bute, my dear—my brother the parson. Buty and the Beast I call him, ha, ha!’
“是的，把它挂起来，”（皮特爵士说，只是他用了，亲爱的，一个非常邪恶的词）； “巴特怎么样，霍德森？布蒂是我的兄弟布特，亲爱的——我的牧师兄弟。我叫他巴特和野兽，哈，哈！”

Hodson laughed too, and then looking more grave and nodding his head, said, ‘I’m afraid he’s better, Sir Pitt. He was out on his pony yesterday, looking at our corn.’
霍德森也笑了，然后表情更加严肃，点点头说：“恐怕他好多了，皮特爵士。”昨天他骑着小马出去看我们的玉米。

‘Looking after his tithes, hang’un (only he used the same wicked word). Will brandy and water never kill him? He’s as tough as old whatdyecallum—old Methusalem.’
‘照顾他的什一税，hang’un（只是他用了同样邪恶的词）。白兰地和水永远不会杀死他吗？他就像老迈土撒勒姆一样坚强。

Mr. Hodson laughed again. ‘The young men is home from college. They’ve whopped John Scroggins till he’s well nigh dead.’
霍德森先生又笑了。 “年轻人大学毕业回家了。他们殴打约翰·斯克罗金斯，直到他差点死掉。

‘Whop my second keeper!’ roared out Sir Pitt.
“哎呀，我的第二个守门员！”皮特爵士吼道。

‘He was on the parson’s ground, sir,’ replied Mr. Hodson; and Sir Pitt in a fury swore that if he ever caught ‘em poaching on his ground, he’d transport ‘em, by the lord he would. However, he said, ‘I’ve sold the presentation of the living, Hodson; none of that breed shall get it, I war’nt”; and Mr. Hodson said he was quite right: and I have no doubt from this that the two brothers are at variance—as brothers often are, and sisters too. Don’t you remember the two Miss Scratchleys at Chiswick, how they used always to fight and quarrel—and Mary Box, how she was always thumping Louisa?
“他在牧师的土地上，先生，”霍德森先生回答道。皮特爵士愤怒地发誓，如果他发现他们在他的土地上偷猎，他就会把他们运走，上帝发誓，他一定会的。然而，他说：“我已经卖掉了对生者的展示，霍德森；那个品种的人都不会得到它，我保证”；霍德森先生说他说得很对：从这一点我毫不怀疑两兄弟之间存在分歧——兄弟经常如此，姐妹也是如此。你难道不记得奇西克的两个斯克拉奇利小姐，她们总是打架、争吵吗？还有玛丽·博克斯，她总是殴打路易莎？

Presently, seeing two little boys gathering sticks in the wood, Mr. Hodson jumped out of the carriage, at Sir Pitt’s order, and rushed upon them with his whip. ‘Pitch into ‘em, Hodson,’ roared the baronet; ‘flog their little souls out, and bring ‘em up to the house, the vagabonds; I’ll commit ‘em as sure as my name’s Pitt.’ And presently we heard Mr. Hodson’s whip cracking on the shoulders of the poor little blubbering wretches, and Sir Pitt, seeing that the malefactors were in custody, drove on to the hall.
不久，霍德森先生看到两个小男孩在树林里捡树枝，按照皮特爵士的命令，跳下马车，用鞭子向他们冲去。 “投向他们，霍德森，”从男爵咆哮道。 ‘把他们的小灵魂鞭打出去，带他们到家里去，这些流浪汉；我会像我的名字叫皮特一样确定他们的罪名。”不久我们就听到霍德森先生的鞭子抽在这些可怜的小家伙的肩膀上，皮特爵士看到罪犯被拘留了，就开车去了大厅。 。

All the servants were ready to meet us, and …
所有仆人都准备好迎接我们，然后……

Here, my dear, I was interrupted last night by a dreadful thumping at my door: and who do you think it was? Sir Pitt Crawley in his night-cap and dressing-gown, such a figure! As I shrank away from such a visitor, he came forward and seized my candle. ‘No candles after eleven o’clock, Miss Becky,’ said he. ‘Go to bed in the dark, you pretty little hussy’ (that is what he called me), ‘and unless you wish me to come for the candle every night, mind and be in bed at eleven.’ And with this, he and Mr. Horrocks the butler went off laughing. You may be sure I shall not encourage any more of their visits. They let loose two immense bloodhounds at night, which all last night were yelling and howling at the moon. ‘I call the dog Gorer,’ said Sir Pitt; ‘he’s killed a man that dog has, and is master of a bull, and the mother I used to call Flora; but now I calls her Aroarer, for she’s too old to bite. Haw, haw!’
亲爱的，昨晚我被一阵可怕的敲门声打断了：你认为是谁？戴着睡帽、穿着晨衣的皮特·克劳利爵士，身材真好！当我躲避这样的访客时，他走上前抓住了我的蜡烛。 “十一点以后就不能点蜡烛了，贝基小姐，”他说。 “天黑了就去睡觉吧，你这个漂亮的小女人”（他就是这么叫我的），“除非你希望我每晚都来拿蜡烛，否则请注意在十一点上床睡觉。”说完，他管家霍罗克斯先生大笑起来。你可以确信我不会再鼓励他们来访。他们在晚上放出了两只巨大的猎犬，它们昨晚一直对着月亮嚎叫。 “我给这只狗起名叫戈尔，”皮特爵士说。 “他杀了一个人，那条狗是他的主人，他是一头公牛的主人，也是我过去称呼弗洛拉的母亲；但现在我叫她阿罗尔，因为她太老了，不能咬人了。哈哈，哈哈！

Before the house of Queen’s Crawley, which is an odious oldfashioned red brick mansion, with tall chimneys and gables of the style of Queen Bess, there is a terrace flanked by the family dove and serpent, and on which the great hall-door opens. And oh, my dear, the great hall I am sure is as big and as glum as the great hall in the dear castle of Udolpho. It has a large fireplace, in which we might put half Miss Pinkerton’s school, and the grate is big enough to roast an ox at the very least. Round the room hang I don’t know how many generations of Crawleys, some with beards and ruffs, some with huge wigs and toes turned out, some dressed in long straight stays and gowns that look as stiff as towers, and some with long ringlets, and oh, my dear! scarcely any stays at all. At one end of the hall is the great staircase all in black oak, as dismal as may be, and on either side are tall doors with stags’ heads over them, leading to the billiard-room and the library, and the great yellow saloon and the morning-rooms. I think there are at least twenty bedrooms on the first floor; one of them has the bed in which Queen Elizabeth slept; and I have been taken by my new pupils through all these fine apartments this morning. They are not rendered less gloomy, I promise you, by having the shutters always shut; and there is scarce one of the apartments, but when the light was let into it, I expected to see a ghost in the room. We have a schoolroom on the second floor, with my bedroom leading into it on one side, and that of the young ladies on the other. Then there are Mr. Pitt’s apartments—Mr. Crawley, he is called—the eldest son, and Mr. Rawdon Crawley’s rooms—he is an officer like SOMEBODY, and away with his regiment. There is no want of room I assure you. You might lodge all the people in Russell Square in the house, I think, and have space to spare.
克劳利女王的宅邸是一栋令人厌恶的老式红砖宅邸，有着高高的烟囱和贝丝女王风格的山墙，前面有一个露台，两侧是家族的鸽子和蛇，大门在露台上打开。哦，亲爱的，我确信这座大厅和亲爱的乌道夫城堡里的大厅一样大、一样阴郁。它有一个大壁炉，里面可以容纳平克顿小姐一半的学校，而且炉排大到至少可以烤一头牛。房间里挂着不知道多少代克劳利家族的人，有的留着胡须和袈裟，有的戴着巨大的假发和脚趾，有的穿着长直裾和像塔楼一样僵硬的长袍，有的留着长卷发，哦，亲爱的！几乎没有任何住宿。大厅的一端是巨大的黑色橡木楼梯，尽管可能很阴暗，两边都是高高的门，门上有雄鹿的头，通向台球室和图书馆，还有巨大的黄色沙龙。和起居室。我想一楼至少有二十间卧室；其中一张有伊丽莎白女王睡觉的床；今天早上，我的新学生们带着我参观了所有这些漂亮的公寓。我向你保证，始终关上百叶窗并不会减少它们的阴郁；公寓里几乎没有一间，但当光线照射进来时，我预计会在房间里看到一个鬼魂。我们的教室在二楼，一侧是我的卧室，另一侧是年轻女士们的卧室​​。然后是皮特先生的公寓——皮特先生。克劳利，他被称为长子，也是罗登·克劳利先生的房间，他是一名像某人一样的军官，离开了他的团。我向你保证，并不缺乏空间。 我想，你可以把罗素广场上的所有人都安置在这所房子里，而且还有多余的空间。

Half an hour after our arrival, the great dinner-bell was rung, and I came down with my two pupils (they are very thin insignificant little chits of ten and eight years old). I came down in your dear muslin gown (about which that odious Mrs. Pinner was so rude, because you gave it me); for I am to be treated as one of the family, except on company days, when the young ladies and I are to dine upstairs.
我们到达后半小时，盛大的晚餐铃响了，我带着两个学生下来了（他们是十岁和八岁的非常瘦弱的小孩子）。我穿着你亲爱的平纹细布长袍下来（那个可恶的平纳夫人对此非常粗鲁，因为这是你给我的）；因为我将被视为家庭成员之一，除了公司日，那时我和年轻的女士们要在楼上用餐。

Well, the great dinner-bell rang, and we all assembled in the little drawing-room where my Lady Crawley sits. She is the second Lady Crawley, and mother of the young ladies. She was an ironmonger’s daughter, and her marriage was thought a great match. She looks as if she had been handsome once, and her eyes are always weeping for the loss of her beauty. She is pale and meagre and high-shouldered, and has not a word to say for herself, evidently. Her stepson Mr. Crawley, was likewise in the room. He was in full dress, as pompous as an undertaker. He is pale, thin, ugly, silent; he has thin legs, no chest, hay-coloured whiskers, and straw-coloured hair. He is the very picture of his sainted mother over the mantelpiece—Griselda of the noble house of Binkie.
好了，盛大的晚餐铃响了，我们都聚集在克劳利夫人坐的小客厅里。她是第二代克劳利夫人，也是年轻女士们的母亲。她是一位五金商的女儿，她的婚姻被认为是天作之合。她看起来就像曾经英俊潇洒过一样，她的眼睛总是因失去美丽而流泪。她脸色苍白，瘦弱，肩膀高高，显然没有什么话可以为自己说。她的继子克劳利先生也在房间里。他穿着盛装，像殡仪馆的承办人一样浮夸。他苍白、瘦弱、丑陋、沉默寡言；他有细腿、没有胸、干草色的胡须和稻草色的头发。他就是壁炉架上他神圣的母亲——宾基贵族家族的格里塞尔达的肖像。

‘This is the new governess, Mr. Crawley,’ said Lady Crawley, coming forward and taking my hand. ‘Miss Sharp.’
“这是新来的家庭女教师，克劳利先生，”克劳利夫人说着，走上前来，握住了我的手。 “夏普小姐。”

‘O!’ said Mr. Crawley, and pushed his head once forward and began again to read a great pamphlet with which he was busy.
“哦！”克劳利先生说，他把头向前一探，又开始读一本他正忙着写的小册子。

‘I hope you will be kind to my girls,’ said Lady Crawley, with her pink eyes always full of tears.
“我希望你们善待我的女儿们，”克劳利夫人说道，她粉红色的眼睛里总是充满泪水。

‘Law, Ma, of course she will,’ said the eldest: and I saw at a glance that I need not be afraid of THAT woman. ‘My lady is served,’ says the butler in black, in an immense white shirt-frill, that looked as if it had been one of the Queen Elizabeth’s ruffs depicted in the hall; and so, taking Mr. Crawley’s arm, she led the way to the dining-room, whither I followed with my little pupils in each hand.
“法律，妈妈，她当然会的，”大女儿说道：我一眼就看出我不需要害怕那个女人。 “我的女士已经得到了服务，”穿黑衣、穿着一件巨大的白色衬衣褶边的管家说道，那看起来就像是大厅里描绘的伊丽莎白女王的领子之一。于是，她挽着克劳利先生的胳膊，领着我走向餐厅，我双手捧着小学生也跟着去了餐厅。

Sir Pitt was already in the room with a silver jug. He had just been to the cellar, and was in full dress too; that is, he had taken his gaiters off, and showed his little dumpy legs in black worsted stockings. The sideboard was covered with glistening old plate—old cups, both gold and silver; old salvers and cruet-stands, like Rundell and Bridge’s shop. Everything on the table was in silver too, and two footmen, with red hair and canary-coloured liveries, stood on either side of the sideboard.
皮特爵士已经带着一个银壶来到了房间里。他刚刚去过地窖，也穿着盛装。也就是说，他脱掉了绑腿，露出穿着黑色精纺长袜的短腿。餐具柜上摆满了闪闪发光的旧盘子——旧杯子，金的和银的；旧托盘和调味瓶架，就像朗德尔和布里奇的商店一样。桌子上的所有东西也都是银色的，两个红头发、身穿金丝雀色制服的男仆站在餐具柜的两侧。

Mr. Crawley said a long grace, and Sir Pitt said amen, and the great silver dish-covers were removed.
克劳利先生说了一声长长的恩典，皮特爵士说了一声“阿们”，然后大银盘盖就被拿走了。

‘What have we for dinner, Betsy?’ said the Baronet.
“贝琪，我们晚餐吃什么？”从男爵说道。

‘Mutton broth, I believe, Sir Pitt,’ answered Lady Crawley.
“我相信是羊肉汤，皮特爵士，”克劳利夫人回答。

‘Mouton aux navets,’ added the butler gravely (pronounce, if you please, moutongonavvy); ‘and the soup is potage de mouton a l’Ecossaise. The side-dishes contain pommes de terre au naturel, and choufleur a l’eau.’
“Mouton aux navets，”管家严肃地补充道（请发音，moutongonavvy）； “汤是欧洲羊肉汤。”配菜包括 pommes de terre au naturel 和 choufleur a l’eau。

‘Mutton’s mutton,’ said the Baronet, ‘and a devilish good thing. What SHIP was it, Horrocks, and when did you kill?’ ‘One of the black-faced Scotch, Sir Pitt: we killed on Thursday.
“羊肉就是羊肉，”从男爵说，“是一种恶魔般的好东西。那是什么船，霍罗克斯，你什么时候杀的？” “皮特爵士，黑脸苏格兰人之一：我们星期四杀的。

‘Who took any?’
“谁拿走了？”

‘Steel, of Mudbury, took the saddle and two legs, Sir Pitt; but he says the last was too young and confounded woolly, Sir Pitt.’
“来自马德伯里的斯蒂尔拿下了马鞍和两条腿，皮特爵士；但他说最后一个太年轻，而且毛茸茸的，皮特爵士。

‘Will you take some potage, Miss ah—Miss Blunt? said Mr. Crawley.
“你要喝点汤吗，啊——布朗特小姐？”克劳利先生说。

‘Capital Scotch broth, my dear,’ said Sir Pitt, ‘though they call it by a French name.’
“亲爱的，首都苏格兰肉汤，”皮特爵士说，“尽管他们用法国名字来称呼它。”

‘I believe it is the custom, sir, in decent society,’ said Mr. Crawley, haughtily, ‘to call the dish as I have called it”; and it was served to us on silver soup plates by the footmen in the canary coats, with the mouton aux navets. Then ‘ale and water’ were brought, and served to us young ladies in wineglasses. I am not a judge of ale, but I can say with a clear conscience I prefer water.
“先生，我相信这是上流社会的习俗，”克劳利先生傲慢地说，“按照我的说法来称呼这道菜。”穿着金丝雀大衣的男仆用银汤盘为我们端上这道菜，配上羊皮。然后“麦芽酒和水”就端来了，装在酒杯里给我们年轻的女士们端上来。我不是啤酒的评判者，但我可以问心无愧地说我更喜欢水。

While we were enjoying our repast, Sir Pitt took occasion to ask what had become of the shoulders of the mutton.
当我们享用晚餐时，皮特爵士趁机询问羊肩肉怎么样了。

‘I believe they were eaten in the servants’ hall,’ said my lady, humbly.
“我相信它们是在仆人大厅里吃的，”我的女士谦虚地说。

‘They was, my lady,’ said Horrocks, ‘and precious little else we get there neither.’
“他们是，我的女士，”霍罗克斯说，“我们也没有到达那里。”

Sir Pitt burst into a horse-laugh, and continued his conversation with Mr. Horrocks. ‘That there little black pig of the Kent sow’s breed must be uncommon fat now.’
皮特爵士哈哈大笑，然后继续与霍罗克斯先生交谈。 “肯特母猪品种的小黑猪现在一定很胖。”

‘It’s not quite busting, Sir Pitt,’ said the butler with the gravest air, at which Sir Pitt, and with him the young ladies, this time, began to laugh violently.
“事情还不太严重，皮特爵士，”管家神情严肃地说，皮特爵士和他身边的年轻女士们这一次开始大笑起来。

‘Miss Crawley, Miss Rose Crawley,’ said Mr. Crawley, ‘your laughter strikes me as being exceedingly out of place.’
“克劳利小姐，罗丝·克劳利小姐，”克劳利先生说，“我觉得你的笑声非常不合时宜。”

‘Never mind, my lord,’ said the Baronet, ‘we’ll try the porker on Saturday. Kill un on Saturday morning, John Horrocks. Miss Sharp adores pork, don’t you, Miss Sharp?’
“没关系，大人，”从男爵说，“我们周六就尝尝猪肉。”约翰·霍罗克斯，周六早上杀掉你。夏普小姐喜欢猪肉，不是吗，夏普小姐？

And I think this is all the conversation that I remember at dinner. When the repast was concluded a jug of hot water was placed before Sir Pitt, with a case-bottle containing, I believe, rum. Mr. Horrocks served myself and my pupils with three little glasses of wine, and a bumper was poured out for my lady. When we retired, she took from her work-drawer an enormous interminable piece of knitting; the young ladies began to play at cribbage with a dirty pack of cards. We had but one candle lighted, but it was in a magnificent old silver candlestick, and after a very few questions from my lady, I had my choice of amusement between a volume of sermons, and a pamphlet on the corn-laws, which Mr. Crawley had been reading before dinner.
我想这就是我记得晚餐时的所有谈话。用餐结束后，皮特爵士面前放了一壶热水，里面有一瓶，我相信里面装的是朗姆酒。霍罗克斯先生为我和我的学生们倒了三小杯酒，还为我的女士倒了一大杯酒。当我们退休时，她从工作抽屉里拿出了一件巨大的、没完没了的针织品；年轻的女士们开始用一副脏纸牌玩纸牌游戏。我们只点燃了一支蜡烛，但它是在一个华丽的旧银烛台上，在我的女士问了几个问题之后，我在一本布道书和一本关于谷物法的小册子之间选择了娱乐，克劳利在晚饭前一直在看书。

So we sat for an hour until steps were heard.
于是我们坐了一个小时，直到听到脚步声。

‘Put away the cards, girls,’ cried my lady, in a great tremor; ‘put down Mr. Crawley’s books, Miss Sharp”; and these orders had been scarcely obeyed, when Mr. Crawley entered the room.
“把卡片收起来，姑娘们，”我的夫人颤抖着喊道。 “夏普小姐，放下克劳利先生的书”；当克劳利先生走进房间时，这些命令几乎没有得到遵守。

‘We will resume yesterday’s discourse, young ladies,’ said he, ‘and you shall each read a page by turns; so that Miss a—Miss Short may have an opportunity of hearing you”; and the poor girls began to spell a long dismal sermon delivered at Bethesda Chapel, Liverpool, on behalf of the mission for the Chickasaw Indians. Was it not a charming evening?
“我们继续昨天的谈话，年轻的女士们，”他说，“你们每人轮流读一页；这样肖特小姐就有机会听到你的声音”；可怜的女孩们开始在利物浦的贝塞斯达教堂代表契卡索印第安人的传教团进行一场漫长而阴郁的布道。这不是一个迷人的夜晚吗？

At ten the servants were told to call Sir Pitt and the household to prayers. Sir Pitt came in first, very much flushed, and rather unsteady in his gait; and after him the butler, the canaries, Mr. Crawley’s man, three other men, smelling very much of the stable, and four women, one of whom, I remarked, was very much overdressed, and who flung me a look of great scorn as she plumped down on her knees.
十点钟，仆人们被告知叫皮特爵士和全家人一起祈祷。皮特爵士走在前面，脸色涨得通红，步态也有些不稳定。在他身后是管家、金丝雀、克劳利先生的男人、另外三个男人，身上散发着马厩的味道，还有四个女人，其中一个，我说，穿得太过分了，她向我投来了极大的蔑视。当她跪下时。

After Mr. Crawley had done haranguing and expounding, we received our candles, and then we went to bed; and then I was disturbed in my writing, as I have described to my dearest sweetest Amelia.
克劳利先生滔滔不绝地讲完后，我们收到了蜡烛，然后就上床睡觉了。然后我在写作中感到不安，正如我向我最亲爱的阿米莉亚描述的那样。

Good night. A thousand, thousand, thousand kisses!
晚安。一千、一千、一千个吻！

Saturday.—This morning, at five, I heard the shrieking of the little black pig. Rose and Violet introduced me to it yesterday; and to the stables, and to the kennel, and to the gardener, who was picking fruit to send to market, and from whom they begged hard a bunch of hot-house grapes; but he said that Sir Pitt had numbered every ‘Man Jack’ of them, and it would be as much as his place was worth to give any away. The darling girls caught a colt in a paddock, and asked me if I would ride, and began to ride themselves, when the groom, coming with horrid oaths, drove them away.
星期六——今天早上五点，我听到小黑猪的尖叫声。罗丝和维奥莱特昨天向我介绍了它；还去了马厩、狗舍和园丁，园丁正在采摘水果送到市场，他们向园丁苦苦乞求一串温室葡萄；但他说皮特爵士已经对他们中的每一个“男子杰克”进行了编号，只要他的位置值得放弃，他就可以了。可爱的女孩们在围场里抓到一匹小马驹，问我是否愿意骑马，然后自己开始骑马，这时新郎带着可怕的咒骂而来，把她们赶走了。

Lady Crawley is always knitting the worsted. Sir Pitt is always tipsy, every night; and, I believe, sits with Horrocks, the butler. Mr. Crawley always reads sermons in the evening, and in the morning is locked up in his study, or else rides to Mudbury, on county business, or to Squashmore, where he preaches, on Wednesdays and Fridays, to the tenants there.
克劳利夫人总是织精纺的。皮特爵士每晚总是喝醉了。我相信，他和管家霍罗克斯坐在一起。克劳利先生总是在晚上读布道，早上则把自己锁在书房里，或者骑车去马德伯里处理县里的事务，或者去斯库什莫尔，周三和周五他在那里向房客们布道。

A hundred thousand grateful loves to your dear papa and mamma. Is your poor brother recovered of his rack-punch? Oh, dear! Oh, dear! How men should beware of wicked punch!
向您亲爱的爸爸和妈妈表达十万个感激之情。你可怜的兄弟被拳打脚踢恢复了吗？哦亲爱的！哦亲爱的！男人要如何提防恶拳！

Ever and ever thine own REBECCA
永远属于你的丽贝卡

Everything considered, I think it is quite as well for our dear Amelia Sedley, in Russell Square, that Miss Sharp and she are parted. Rebecca is a droll funny creature, to be sure; and those descriptions of the poor lady weeping for the loss of her beauty, and the gentleman ‘with hay-coloured whiskers and straw-coloured hair,’ are very smart, doubtless, and show a great knowledge of the world. That she might, when on her knees, have been thinking of something better than Miss Horrocks’s ribbons, has possibly struck both of us. But my kind reader will please to remember that this history has ‘Vanity Fair’ for a title, and that Vanity Fair is a very vain, wicked, foolish place, full of all sorts of humbugs and falsenesses and pretensions. And while the moralist, who is holding forth on the cover ( an accurate portrait of your humble servant), professes to wear neither gown nor bands, but only the very same long-eared livery in which his congregation is arrayed: yet, look you, one is bound to speak the truth as far as one knows it, whether one mounts a cap and bells or a shovel hat; and a deal of disagreeable matter must come out in the course of such an undertaking.
综合考虑，我认为对于住在罗素广场的我们亲爱的阿米莉亚·塞德利来说，夏普小姐和她分开是件好事。诚然，丽贝卡是个滑稽可笑的人。那些对可怜的女士因失去美丽而哭泣的描述，以及对“有着干草色的胡须和稻草色的头发”的绅士的描述，无疑是非常聪明的，并且显示出对世界的渊博知识。当她跪下时，她可能一直在想比霍罗克斯小姐的丝带更好的事情，这可能让我们俩都感到震惊。但我善良的读者请记住，这段历史以“名利场”为标题，而名利场是一个非常虚荣、邪恶、愚蠢的地方，充满了各种骗局、虚假和自命不凡。而封面上的道德家（你卑微的仆人的准确肖像）声称既不穿长袍，也不穿乐队，而只穿着与他的会众所穿着的相同的长耳制服：然而，你看，一个人就必须说他所知道的真相，无论一个人戴着帽子和铃铛还是戴着铲子帽；在进行这项工作的过程中，必然会出现一些令人不愉快的事情。

I have heard a brother of the story-telling trade, at Naples, preaching to a pack of good-for-nothing honest lazy fellows by the sea-shore, work himself up into such a rage and passion with some of the villains whose wicked deeds he was describing and inventing, that the audience could not resist it; and they and the poet together would burst out into a roar of oaths and execrations against the fictitious monster of the tale, so that the hat went round, and the bajocchi tumbled into it, in the midst of a perfect storm of sympathy.
我听说那不勒斯的一位讲故事的兄弟，在海边向一群一无是处的诚实懒汉讲道，他对一些恶棍感到愤怒和热情，他们的邪恶他所描述和发明的事迹让观众无法抗拒；他们和诗人一起对故事中虚构的怪物发出咒骂和咒骂的咆哮，于是帽子旋转起来，巴乔奇跌入帽子，在一场完美的同情风暴中。

At the little Paris theatres, on the other hand, you will not only hear the people yelling out ‘Ah gredin! Ah monstre:’ and cursing the tyrant of the play from the boxes; but the actors themselves positively refuse to play the wicked parts, such as those of infames Anglais, brutal Cossacks, and what not, and prefer to appear at a smaller salary, in their real characters as loyal Frenchmen. I set the two stories one against the other, so that you may see that it is not from mere mercenary motives that the present performer is desirous to show up and trounce his villains; but because he has a sincere hatred of them, which he cannot keep down, and which must find a vent in suitable abuse and bad language.
另一方面，在巴黎的小剧院，你不仅会听到人们大喊“啊格雷丁！”啊怪物：’并在包厢里咒骂这出戏的暴君；但演员们却坚决拒绝扮演邪恶的角色，比如臭名昭著的英国人、残暴的哥萨克人等等，他们更愿意以较低的片酬在真实的角色中扮演忠诚的法国人。我把这两个故事对立起来，这样你就可以看到，现在的表演者渴望出现并击败他的恶棍，不仅仅是出于唯利是图的动机；而是出于一种唯利是图的动机。但因为他对他们怀有真诚的仇恨，他无法压抑这种仇恨，必须通过适当的辱骂和脏话来发泄。

I warn my ‘kyind friends,’ then, that I am going to tell a story of harrowing villainy and complicated—but, as I trust, intensely interesting—crime. My rascals are no milk-and-water rascals, I promise you. When we come to the proper places we won’t spare fine language—No, no! But when we are going over the quiet country we must perforce be calm. A tempest in a slop-basin is absurd. We will reserve that sort of thing for the mighty ocean and the lonely midnight. The present Chapter is very mild. Others—But we will not anticipate THOSE.
然后，我警告我的“善良的朋友们”，我将讲述一个令人痛苦的邪恶和复杂的——但我相信，非常有趣的——犯罪的故事。我向你保证，我的流氓不是喝牛奶和水的流氓。到了适当的地方，我们就不吝惜华丽的语言——不，不！但当我们穿越这个安静的国家时，我们必须保持冷静。污水池中的暴风雨是荒谬的。我们会把这样的事情留给浩瀚的海洋和孤独的午夜。本章内容非常温和。其他——但我们不会预料到那些。

And, as we bring our characters forward, I will ask leave, as a man and a brother, not only to introduce them, but occasionally to step down from the platform, and talk about them: if they are good and kindly, to love them and shake them by the hand: if they are silly, to laugh at them confidentially in the reader’s sleeve: if they are wicked and heartless, to abuse them in the strongest terms which politeness admits of.
而且，当我们把我们的角色向前推进时，我会请假，作为一个男人和一个兄弟，不仅介绍他们，而且偶尔走下讲台，谈论他们：如果他们善良，善良，去爱如果他们很愚蠢，就在读者的袖子里偷偷地嘲笑他们；如果他们邪恶无情，就以礼貌所允许的最强烈的措辞辱骂他们。

Otherwise you might fancy it was I who was sneering at the practice of devotion, which Miss Sharp finds so ridiculous; that it was I who laughed good-humouredly at the reeling old Silenus of a baronet— whereas the laughter comes from one who has no reverence except for prosperity, and no eye for anything beyond success. Such people there are living and flourishing in the world—Faithless, Hopeless, Charityless: let us have at them, dear friends, with might and main. Some there are, and very successful too, mere quacks and fools: and it was to combat and expose such as those, no doubt, that Laughter was made.
否则你可能会认为是我在嘲笑奉献的做法，夏普小姐觉得这很荒谬；是我对一位从男爵的神志不清的老西勒诺斯发出了幽默的笑声——而笑声却出自一个除了繁荣之外没有任何崇敬之心的人，除了成功之外，对任何事物都一无所知。世上有这样的人，他们生活得很好，很繁荣——没有信仰，没有希望，没有慈善：亲爱的朋友们，让我们全力对付他们吧。有些人，而且也非常成功，只是庸医和傻瓜：毫无疑问，《笑声》就是为了打击和揭露这些人而诞生的。

Chapter IX
第九章


Family Portraits
全家福

Sir Pitt Crawley was a philosopher with a taste for what is called low life. His first marriage with the daughter of the noble Binkie had been made under the auspices of his parents; and as he often told Lady Crawley in her lifetime she was such a confounded quarrelsome high-bred jade that when she died he was hanged if he would ever take another of her sort, at her ladyship’s demise he kept his promise, and selected for a second wife Miss Rose Dawson, daughter of Mr. John Thomas Dawson, ironmonger, of Mudbury. What a happy woman was Rose to be my Lady Crawley!
皮特·克劳利爵士是一位对所谓下层生活感兴趣的哲学家。他与贵族宾基的女儿的第一次婚姻是在他父母的主持下举行的。正如他在克劳利夫人生前经常对她说的那样，她是一个令人困惑的好争吵的高雅玉女，当她死后，如果他再娶一个她这样的人，他就会被绞死，在夫人去世时，他信守了诺言，并被选为第二任妻子罗丝·道森小姐，是马德伯里五金商约翰·托马斯·道森先生的女儿。罗丝成为我的克劳利夫人是多么幸福的女人啊！

Let us set down the items of her happiness. In the first place, she gave up Peter Butt, a young man who kept company with her, and in consequence of his disappointment in love, took to smuggling, poaching, and a thousand other bad courses. Then she quarrelled, as in duty bound, with all the friends and intimates of her youth, who, of course, could not be received by my Lady at Queen’s Crawley—nor did she find in her new rank and abode any persons who were willing to welcome her. Who ever did? Sir Huddleston Fuddleston had three daughters who all hoped to be Lady Crawley. Sir Giles Wapshot’s family were insulted that one of the Wapshot girls had not the preference in the marriage, and the remaining baronets of the county were indignant at their comrade’s misalliance. Never mind the commoners, whom we will leave to grumble anonymously.
让我们把她幸福的事情记下来吧。首先，她放弃了陪伴她的年轻人彼得·巴特，因失恋而走上了走私、偷猎等上千种恶行。然后，她出于义务，与年轻时所有的朋友和密友发生了争吵，当然，女王克劳利的夫人无法接待他们，也没有在她的新职位和住所中找到任何愿意的人。欢迎她。谁曾经做过？赫德尔斯顿爵士有三个女儿，她们都希望成为克劳利夫人。贾尔斯·瓦普肖特爵士的家人因其中一名瓦普肖特女孩在婚姻中没有优先权而感到受到侮辱，而该县其余的男爵则对他们同志的不正当联盟感到愤慨。别管平民了，我们会让他们匿名抱怨。

Sir Pitt did not care, as he said, a brass farden for any one of them. He had his pretty Rose, and what more need a man require than to please himself? So he used to get drunk every night: to beat his pretty Rose sometimes: to leave her in Hampshire when he went to London for the parliamentary session, without a single friend in the wide world. Even Mrs. Bute Crawley, the Rector’s wife, refused to visit her, as she said she would never give the pas to a tradesman’s daughter.
正如皮特爵士所说，他并不关心他们中任何一个人的黄铜法登。他有他漂亮的玫瑰，除了取悦自己之外，一个男人还需要什么？所以他每天晚上都喝得酩酊大醉：有时是为了打败他漂亮的罗丝：当他去伦敦参加议会会议时，把她留在汉普郡，在广阔的世界上没有一个朋友。就连校长的妻子布特·克劳利夫人也拒绝探望她，因为她说她永远不会把通行证交给商人的女儿。

As the only endowments with which Nature had gifted Lady Crawley were those of pink cheeks and a white skin, and as she had no sort of character, nor talents, nor opinions, nor occupations, nor amusements, nor that vigour of soul and ferocity of temper which often falls to the lot of entirely foolish women, her hold upon Sir Pitt’s affections was not very great. Her roses faded out of her cheeks, and the pretty freshness left her figure after the birth of a couple of children, and she became a mere machine in her husband’s house of no more use than the late Lady Crawley’s grand piano. Being a light-complexioned woman, she wore light clothes, as most blondes will, and appeared, in preference, in draggled sea-green, or slatternly sky-blue. She worked that worsted day and night, or other pieces like it. She had counterpanes in the course of a few years to all the beds in Crawley. She had a small flower-garden, for which she had rather an affection; but beyond this no other like or disliking. When her husband was rude to her she was apathetic: whenever he struck her she cried. She had not character enough to take to drinking, and moaned about, slipshod and in curl-papers all day. O Vanity Fair—Vanity Fair! This might have been, but for you, a cheery lass—Peter Butt and Rose a happy man and wife, in a snug farm, with a hearty family; and an honest portion of pleasures, cares, hopes and struggles—but a title and a coach and four are toys more precious than happiness in Vanity Fair: and if Harry the Eighth or Bluebeard were alive now, and wanted a tenth wife, do you suppose he could not get the prettiest girl that shall be presented this season?
因为大自然赋予克劳利夫人的唯一天赋就是粉红的脸颊和白皙的皮肤，而且她没有任何性格，没有才华，没有观点，没有职业，没有娱乐，也没有灵魂的活力和凶猛。她的脾气通常是完全愚蠢的女人才会有的，但她对皮特爵士的感情并不是很大。她的玫瑰色从脸颊上消失了，生了几个孩子后，她的身材也不再那么清新，她成了她丈夫家里的一台机器，就像已故克劳利夫人的三角钢琴一样没有用处。作为一个浅肤色的女人，她像大多数金发女郎一样穿着浅色衣服，并且偏爱穿着拖沓的海绿色或邋遢的天蓝色。她日以继夜地加工那件精纺的衣服，或者其他类似的衣服。几年之内，她给克劳利的所有床铺都装上了床罩。她有一个小花园，她很喜欢它。但除此之外没有其他的喜欢或不喜欢。当她的丈夫对她粗鲁时，她表现得冷漠：每当他打她时，她都会哭。她没有足够的性格去喝酒，整天都在抱怨，穿着邋遢，戴着卷发纸。噢，名利场——名利场！如果不是你，这可能是一个快乐的姑娘——彼得·巴特和罗斯是一对幸福的夫妻，在一个舒适的农场里，有一个和睦的家庭；以及诚实的快乐、关心、希望和挣扎——但是一个头衔、一个教练和四个人是比《名利场》中的幸福更珍贵的玩具：如果哈利八世或蓝胡子现在还活着，并且想要第十个妻子，你会吗？如果他找不到本季最漂亮的女孩呢？

The languid dulness of their mamma did not, as it may be supposed, awaken much affection in her little daughters, but they were very happy in the servants’ hall and in the stables; and the Scotch gardener having luckily a good wife and some good children, they got a little wholesome society and instruction in his lodge, which was the only education bestowed upon them until Miss Sharp came.
正如人们所想象的那样，他们的妈妈的倦怠迟钝并没有唤起她的小女儿们的感情，但是她们在仆人的大厅和马厩里却很快乐。幸运的是，苏格兰园丁有一个好妻子和一些好孩子，他们在他的小屋里得到了一些有益的社会和教育，这是夏普小姐到来之前给予他们的唯一教育。

Her engagement was owing to the remonstrances of Mr. Pitt Crawley, the only friend or protector Lady Crawley ever had, and the only person, besides her children, for whom she entertained a little feeble attachment. Mr. Pitt took after the noble Binkies, from whom he was descended, and was a very polite and proper gentleman. When he grew to man’s estate, and came back from Christchurch, he began to reform the slackened discipline of the hall, in spite of his father, who stood in awe of him. He was a man of such rigid refinement, that he would have starved rather than have dined without a white neckcloth. Once, when just from college, and when Horrocks the butler brought him a letter without placing it previously on a tray, he gave that domestic a look, and administered to him a speech so cutting, that Horrocks ever after trembled before him; the whole household bowed to him: Lady Crawley’s curl-papers came off earlier when he was at home: Sir Pitt’s muddy gaiters disappeared; and if that incorrigible old man still adhered to other old habits, he never fuddled himself with rum-and-water in his son’s presence, and only talked to his servants in a very reserved and polite manner; and those persons remarked that Sir Pitt never swore at Lady Crawley while his son was in the room.
她的订婚是由于皮特·克劳利先生的抗议，皮特·克劳利先生是克劳利夫人唯一的朋友或保护者，也是除了她的孩子之外，她唯一对他怀有一点微弱依恋的人。皮特先生继承了高贵的宾基斯家族的后裔，是一位非常有礼貌、得体的绅士。当他长大成人，从基督城回来后，他开始改革大厅里松懈的纪律，尽管他的父亲对他很敬畏。他是一个如此严格、优雅的人，如果不戴白领巾，他宁愿挨饿也不愿吃饭。有一次，当他刚从大学毕业时，管家霍洛克斯给他带来了一封信，之前没有把它放在托盘上，他看了那个仆人一眼，并对他说了一番尖酸刻薄的话，霍洛克斯从此在他面前颤抖；全家人都向他鞠躬：克劳利夫人的卷发纸早些时候在他在家时脱落了：皮特爵士沾满泥的绑腿消失了；如果说那个不可救药的老人还固守着其他的旧习惯的话，他从来不会当着儿子的面喝朗姆酒和水，只是以一种非常矜持和礼貌的方式与他的仆人交谈。这些人评论说，当他的儿子在房间里时，皮特爵士从未咒骂过克劳利夫人。

It was he who taught the butler to say, ‘My lady is served,’ and who insisted on handing her ladyship in to dinner. He seldom spoke to her, but when he did it was with the most powerful respect; and he never let her quit the apartment without rising in the most stately manner to open the door, and making an elegant bow at her egress.
是他教导管家说：“夫人已招待完毕”，并坚持要请夫人吃饭。他很少和她说话，但当他说话时，却带着最强烈的敬意。他从来不让她离开公寓，除非以最庄严的方式站起来开门，并在她出口时优雅地鞠躬。

At Eton he was called Miss Crawley; and there, I am sorry to say, his younger brother Rawdon used to lick him violently. But though his parts were not brilliant, he made up for his lack of talent by meritorious industry, and was never known, during eight years at school, to be subject to that punishment which it is generally thought none but a cherub can escape.
在伊顿公学，他被称为克劳利小姐；在伊顿公学，他被称为克劳利小姐。我很遗憾地说，他的弟弟罗登曾经在那里猛烈地舔过他。尽管他的角色并不出色，但他却用勤奋的努力弥补了自己天赋的不足，而且在学校的八年里，他从未受到过人们普遍认为只有小天使才能逃脱的惩罚。

At college his career was of course highly creditable. And here he prepared himself for public life, into which he was to be introduced by the patronage of his grandfather, Lord Binkie, by studying the ancient and modern orators with great assiduity, and by speaking unceasingly at the debating societies. But though he had a fine flux of words, and delivered his little voice with great pomposity and pleasure to himself, and never advanced any sentiment or opinion which was not perfectly trite and stale, and supported by a Latin quotation; yet he failed somehow, in spite of a mediocrity which ought to have insured any man a success. He did not even get the prize poem, which all his friends said he was sure of.
在大学期间，他的职业生涯当然是非常值得信赖的。在这里，他为进入公共生活做好了准备，在他的祖父宾基勋爵的赞助下，他通过刻苦学习古代和现代的演说家，并在辩论社团中不断演讲，进入了公共生活。但是，尽管他的言辞流畅，用他那微弱的声音，带着极大的自负和愉悦，从来没有提出过任何不完全陈腐和陈旧的情感或观点，并有拉丁语引文的支持；但他的观点却是非常陈腐的。然而他却以某种方式失败了，尽管他的平庸本应保证任何人的成功。他甚至没有获得他所有朋友都说他确信的诗歌奖。

After leaving college he became Private Secretary to Lord Binkie, and was then appointed Attache to the Legation at Pumpernickel, which post he filled with perfect honour, and brought home despatches, consisting of Strasburg pie, to the Foreign Minister of the day. After remaining ten years Attache (several years after the lamented Lord Binkie’s demise), and finding the advancement slow, he at length gave up the diplomatic service in some disgust, and began to turn country gentleman.
大学毕业后，他成为宾基勋爵的私人秘书，随后被任命为普珀尼克尔公使馆随员，他非常荣幸地担任了这个职务，并向当时的外交部长带回了包括斯特拉斯堡馅饼在内的急件。当了十年随员后（令人惋惜的宾基勋爵去世几年后），他发现晋升缓慢，最终有些厌恶地放弃了外交职务，开始变成乡村绅士。

He wrote a pamphlet on Malt on returning to England (for he was an ambitious man, and always liked to be before the public), and took a strong part in the Negro Emancipation question. Then he became a friend of Mr. Wilberforce’s, whose politics he admired, and had that famous correspondence with the Reverend Silas Hornblower, on the Ashantee Mission. He was in London, if not for the Parliament session, at least in May, for the religious meetings. In the country he was a magistrate, and an active visitor and speaker among those destitute of religious instruction. He was said to be paying his addresses to Lady Jane Sheepshanks, Lord Southdown’s third daughter, and whose sister, Lady Emily, wrote those sweet tracts, ‘The Sailor’s True Binnacle,’ and ‘The Applewoman of Finchley Common.’
返回英国后，他写了一本关于麦尔特的小册子（因为他是一个雄心勃勃的人，总是喜欢出现在公众面前），并积极参与黑人解放问题。然后，他成为了威尔伯福斯先生的朋友，他钦佩威尔伯福斯先生的政治观点，并在阿桑提传教团与塞拉斯·霍恩布洛尔牧师进行了那段著名的通信。他在伦敦，即使不是参加议会会议，至少是五月份的宗教会议。在该国，他是一名地方法官，也是那些缺乏宗教教育的人中的活跃访客和演讲者。据说，他正在向绍斯当勋爵的三女儿简·希普尚克斯夫人致辞，她的妹妹艾米丽夫人写了那些甜蜜的小册子，《水手的真正罗盘》和《芬奇利公地的苹果女》。

Miss Sharp’s accounts of his employment at Queen’s Crawley were not caricatures. He subjected the servants there to the devotional exercises before mentioned, in which (and so much the better) he brought his father to join. He patronised an Independent meetinghouse in Crawley parish, much to the indignation of his uncle the Rector, and to the consequent delight of Sir Pitt, who was induced to go himself once or twice, which occasioned some violent sermons at Crawley parish church, directed point-blank at the Baronet’s old Gothic pew there. Honest Sir Pitt, however, did not feel the force of these discourses, as he always took his nap during sermon-time.
夏普小姐对他在克劳利女王大学工作的描述并不是漫画。他让那里的仆人进行前面提到的虔诚练习，其中（而且更好）他还带了他的父亲一起参加。他光顾了克劳利教区的一家独立教堂，这让他的叔叔、教区长非常愤慨，而皮特爵士则很高兴，皮特爵士被诱使自己去了一两次，这在克劳利教区教堂引发了一些暴力布道，直接指出了这一点。 -从男爵古老的哥特式长椅上的空白。然而，诚实的皮特爵士并没有感受到这些话语的力量，因为他总是在布道时间小憩。

Mr. Crawley was very earnest, for the good of the nation and of the Christian world, that the old gentleman should yield him up his place in Parliament; but this the elder constantly refused to do. Both were of course too prudent to give up the fifteen hundred a year which was brought in by the second seat (at this period filled by Mr. Quadroon, with carte blanche on the Slave question); indeed the family estate was much embarrassed, and the income drawn from the borough was of great use to the house of Queen’s Crawley.
为了国家和基督教世界的利益，克劳利先生非常恳切地希望这位老绅士放弃他在议会中的席位。但长老始终拒绝这样做。当然，两人都过于谨慎，不愿放弃第二席位带来的每年一千五百美元（此时由奎德龙先生担任，在奴隶问题上拥有全权委托）。事实上，家族的财产非常窘迫，而从行政区获得的收入对女王克劳利家族来说却有很大用处。

It had never recovered the heavy fine imposed upon Walpole Crawley, first baronet, for peculation in the Tape and Sealing Wax Office. Sir Walpole was a jolly fellow, eager to seize and to spend money (alieni appetens, sui profusus, as Mr. Crawley would remark with a sigh), and in his day beloved by all the county for the constant drunkenness and hospitality which was maintained at Queen’s Crawley. The cellars were filled with burgundy then, the kennels with hounds, and the stables with gallant hunters; now, such horses as Queen’s Crawley possessed went to plough, or ran in the Trafalgar Coach; and it was with a team of these very horses, on an off-day, that Miss Sharp was brought to the Hall; for boor as he was, Sir Pitt was a stickler for his dignity while at home, and seldom drove out but with four horses, and though he dined off boiled mutton, had always three footmen to serve it.
第一任准男爵沃波尔·克劳利因在胶带和密封蜡办公室进行贪污行为而被处以巨额罚款，但该局至今仍未收回。沃波尔爵士是个快活的家伙，热衷于抢夺和花钱（克劳利先生叹息着说，他爱花钱，爱花钱），在他那个时代，他因经常酗酒和热情好客而受到全郡的喜爱。在克劳利女王学院。那时，地窖里堆满了勃艮第葡萄酒，狗舍里堆满了猎犬，马厩里堆满了英勇的猎人。现在，女王克劳利拥有的马匹要么去犁地，要么乘坐特拉法加马车奔跑。夏普小姐正是在休息日带着一群这样的马被带到大厅的。尽管皮特爵士是个粗人，但他在家里却很注重自己的尊严，除非带着四匹马，否则很少开车出去，尽管他吃的是煮羊肉，但总是有三个仆人为他服务。

If mere parsimony could have made a man rich, Sir Pitt Crawley might have become very wealthy—if he had been an attorney in a country town, with no capital but his brains, it is very possible that he would have turned them to good account, and might have achieved for himself a very considerable influence and competency. But he was unluckily endowed with a good name and a large though encumbered estate, both of which went rather to injure than to advance him. He had a taste for law, which cost him many thousands yearly; and being a great deal too clever to be robbed, as he said, by any single agent, allowed his affairs to be mismanaged by a dozen, whom he all equally mistrusted. He was such a sharp landlord, that he could hardly find any but bankrupt tenants; and such a close farmer, as to grudge almost the seed to the ground, whereupon revengeful Nature grudged him the crops which she granted to more liberal husbandmen. He speculated in every possible way; he worked mines; bought canalshares; horsed coaches; took government contracts, and was the busiest man and magistrate of his county. As he would not pay honest agents at his granite quarry, he had the satisfaction of finding that four overseers ran away, and took fortunes with them to America. For want of proper precautions, his coal-mines filled with water: the government flung his contract of damaged beef upon his hands: and for his coach-horses, every mail proprietor in the kingdom knew that he lost more horses than any man in the country, from underfeeding and buying cheap. In disposition he was sociable, and far from being proud; nay, he rather preferred the society of a farmer or a horse-dealer to that of a gentleman, like my lord, his son: he was fond of drink, of swearing, of joking with the farmers’ daughters: he was never known to give away a shilling or to do a good action, but was of a pleasant, sly, laughing mood, and would cut his joke and drink his glass with a tenant and sell him up the next day; or have his laugh with the poacher he was transporting with equal good humour. His politeness for the fair sex has already been hinted at by Miss Rebecca Sharp—in a word, the whole baronetage, peerage, commonage of England, did not contain a more cunning, mean, selfish, foolish, disreputable old man. That bloodred hand of Sir Pitt Crawley’s would be in anybody’s pocket except his own; and it is with grief and pain, that, as admirers of the British aristocracy, we find ourselves obliged to admit the existence of so many ill qualities in a person whose name is in Debrett.
如果仅仅节俭就可以使一个人变得富有，那么皮特·克劳利爵士可能会变得非常富有——如果他是一个乡村小镇的一名律师，除了他的大脑之外没有资本，他很可能会把他们变成很好的人，并可能为自己取得相当大的影响力和能力。但不幸的是，他拥有一个好名声和一大笔虽然有负担的财产，这两者对他来说反而是伤害而不是进步。他热衷于法律，每年为此付出数千美元的代价。正如他所说，他太聪明了，不可能被任何一个特工抢劫，却让他的事务被十几个特工管理不善，而他都同样不信任这些特工。他是一个非常精明的房东，除了破产的房客之外，他几乎找不到任何租客。他是一个如此亲密的农夫，几乎不惜将种子撒到地里，因此，报复性的大自然也吝惜他的庄稼，而她把庄稼赐给了更开明的农夫。他想尽一切办法；他在矿山工作；购买了运河股份；马车；接受政府合同，是他所在县最忙碌的人和地方长官。由于他不愿向花岗岩采石场的诚实代理人支付报酬，他很满意地发现四名监工逃跑了，并带着他们的财富去了美国。由于缺乏适当的预防措施，他的煤矿里充满了水：政府把他的受损牛肉合同扔到了他的手上：而对于他的马车马来说，王国里的每个邮件业主都知道他失去的马比世界上任何人都多。国家，来自喂养不足和廉价购买。 他性情随和，一点也不骄傲。不仅如此，他更喜欢与农民或马贩子交往，而不是与绅士交往，就像我的勋爵，他的儿子一样：他喜欢喝酒，喜欢说脏话，喜欢与农民的女儿们开玩笑：从来没有人知道他会捐出一先令或做一件好事，但心情愉快，狡猾，大笑，会停止开玩笑，与房客一起喝杯酒，第二天把他卖掉；或者与他运送的偷猎者一起开怀大笑。丽贝卡·夏普小姐已经暗示了他对女性的礼貌——总之，整个英格兰的男爵、贵族、平民，没有比他更狡猾、卑鄙、自私、愚蠢、声名狼藉的老人了。皮特·克劳利爵士那只血红的手可以放在任何人的口袋里，除了他自己的。正是带着悲伤和痛苦，作为英国贵族的崇拜者，我们发现自己不得不承认一个以德布雷特为名的人存在如此多的不良品质。

One great cause why Mr. Crawley had such a hold over the affections of his father, resulted from money arrangements. The Baronet owed his son a sum of money out of the jointure of his mother, which he did not find it convenient to pay; indeed he had an almost invincible repugnance to paying anybody, and could only be brought by force to discharge his debts. Miss Sharp calculated (for she became, as we shall hear speedily, inducted into most of the secrets of the family) that the mere payment of his creditors cost the honourable Baronet several hundreds yearly; but this was a delight he could not forego; he had a savage pleasure in making the poor wretches wait, and in shifting from court to court and from term to term the period of satisfaction. What’s the good of being in Parliament, he said, if you must pay your debts? Hence, indeed, his position as a senator was not a little useful to him.
克劳利先生如此深得父亲喜爱的一个重要原因就是金钱安排。从男爵从他母亲的联名中欠了他儿子一笔钱，但他觉得不方便偿还。事实上，他对偿还任何人的债务几乎是无敌的厌恶，只有通过武力才能解除他的债务。夏普小姐计算出（我们很快就会听到，她已经了解了这个家族的大部分秘密）光是偿还债权人的债务，这位尊贵的准男爵每年就得花掉数百美元。但这是他无法放弃的喜悦。他从让这些可怜的人等待，从一个宫廷到另一个宫廷，从一个任期到另一个任期的满足中获得了一种野蛮的快乐。他说，如果你必须偿还债务，那么进入议会有什么好处呢？所以说，参议员的地位对他来说确实有不小的用处。

Vanity Fair—Vanity Fair! Here was a man, who could not spell, and did not care to read—who had the habits and the cunning of a boor: whose aim in life was pettifogging: who never had a taste, or emotion, or enjoyment, but what was sordid and foul; and yet he had rank, and honours, and power, somehow: and was a dignitary of the land, and a pillar of the state. He was high sheriff, and rode in a golden coach. Great ministers and statesmen courted him; and in Vanity Fair he had a higher place than the most brilliant genius or spotless virtue.
名利场——名利场！这是一个不会拼写，也懒得读书的人，他有着粗野人的习惯和狡猾：他的人生目标是小气：他从来没有品味，没有情感，也没有享受，但龌龊、肮脏；然而，他不知怎么地还是有地位、荣誉和权力的：他是这片土地上的显贵，是国家的栋梁。他是高级警长，乘坐金色马车。伟大的大臣和政治家都向他求爱。在《名利场》中，他的地位比最杰出的天才或最完美的美德还要高。

Sir Pitt had an unmarried half-sister who inherited her mother’s large fortune, and though the Baronet proposed to borrow this money of her on mortgage, Miss Crawley declined the offer, and preferred the security of the funds. She had signified, however, her intention of leaving her inheritance between Sir Pitt’s second son and the family at the Rectory, and had once or twice paid the debts of Rawdon Crawley in his career at college and in the army. Miss Crawley was, in consequence, an object of great respect when she came to Queen’s Crawley, for she had a balance at her banker’s which would have made her beloved anywhere.
皮特爵士有一个未婚的同父异母的妹妹，她继承了她母亲的巨额财产，尽管男爵提议以抵押贷款的方式借她的这笔钱，但克劳利小姐拒绝了这个提议，并更喜欢资金的安全性。然而，她曾表示，她打算将遗产留给皮特爵士的次子和教区长的家人，并曾一两次偿还过罗登·克劳利在大学和军队的职业生涯中的债务。因此，当克劳利小姐来到皇后克劳利时，她受到了极大的尊重，因为她在银行家有余额，这将使她在任何地方都受到爱戴。

What a dignity it gives an old lady, that balance at the banker’s! How tenderly we look at her faults if she is a relative (and may every reader have a score of such), what a kind good-natured old creature we find her! How the junior partner of Hobbs and Dobbs leads her smiling to the carriage with the lozenge upon it, and the fat wheezy coachman! How, when she comes to pay us a visit, we generally find an opportunity to let our friends know her station in the world! We say (and with perfect truth) I wish I had Miss MacWhirter’s signature to a cheque for five thousand pounds. She wouldn’t miss it, says your wife. She is my aunt, say you, in an easy careless way, when your friend asks if Miss MacWhirter is any relative. Your wife is perpetually sending her little testimonies of affection, your little girls work endless worsted baskets, cushions, and footstools for her. What a good fire there is in her room when she comes to pay you a visit, although your wife laces her stays without one! The house during her stay assumes a festive, neat, warm, jovial, snug appearance not visible at other seasons. You yourself, dear sir, forget to go to sleep after dinner, and find yourself all of a sudden (though you invariably lose) very fond of a rubber. What good dinners you have—game every day, MalmseyMadeira, and no end of fish from London. Even the servants in the kitchen share in the general prosperity; and, somehow, during the stay of Miss MacWhirter’s fat coachman, the beer is grown much stronger, and the consumption of tea and sugar in the nursery (where her maid takes her meals) is not regarded in the least. Is it so, or is it not so? I appeal to the middle classes. Ah, gracious powers! I wish you would send me an old aunt—a maiden aunt—an aunt with a lozenge on her carriage, and a front of light coffee-coloured hair—how my children should work workbags for her, and my Julia and I would make her comfortable! Sweet—sweet vision! Foolish—foolish dream!
银行家的余额给一位老太太带来了多大的尊严啊！如果她是一个亲戚，我们会多么温柔地看待她的缺点（愿每个读者都有这样的分数），我们发现她是一个多么善良的老家伙啊！霍布斯和多布斯的小伙伴是如何微笑着领着她走向挂着菱形图案的马车和那个气喘吁吁的胖车夫的！怎么样，当她来拜访我们时，我们通常会找机会让我们的朋友知道她在世界上的地位！我们说（而且是完全正确的）我希望我能在一张五千英镑的支票上有麦克沃特小姐的签名。她不会错过的，你妻子说。当你的朋友问麦克沃特小姐是否是我的亲戚时，你会用一种轻松、漫不经心的方式说，她是我的姨妈。你的妻子不断地向她表达爱意，你的小女儿们为她做无数的精纺篮子、垫子和脚凳。当她来拜访你时，她的房间里生着多么旺盛的火，尽管你妻子没有系带子！在她入住期间，房子呈现出其他季节所没有的喜庆、整洁、温暖、欢乐、舒适的外观。亲爱的先生，你自己，晚饭后忘记睡觉，突然发现自己（尽管你总是会失败）非常喜欢橡皮。你的晚餐多美味啊——每天都有野味，马尔姆西马德拉，还有无穷无尽的来自伦敦的鱼。就连厨房里的仆人也分享着普遍的繁荣；不知怎的，在麦克沃特小姐的胖车夫逗留期间，啤酒变得更烈了，而在托儿所（她的女仆吃饭的地方）里茶和糖的消耗根本不被考虑。是这样，还是不是这样？我呼吁中产阶级。啊，仁慈的力量！ 我希望你能给我送来一位老阿姨——一位未婚的阿姨——一位马车上挂着菱形的阿姨，前面有一头浅咖啡色的头发——我的孩子们应该如何为她做工作包，我的朱莉娅和我会让她舒服的！甜蜜——甜蜜的愿景！愚蠢——愚蠢的梦想！

Chapter X
第十章


Miss Sharp Begins to Make Friends
夏普小姐开始交朋友

And now, being received as a member of the amiable family whose portraits we have sketched in the foregoing pages, it became naturally Rebecca’s duty to make herself, as she said, agreeable to her benefactors, and to gain their confidence to the utmost of her power. Who can but admire this quality of gratitude in an unprotected orphan; and, if there entered some degree of selfishness into her calculations, who can say but that her prudence was perfectly justifiable? ‘I am alone in the world,’ said the friendless girl. ‘I have nothing to look for but what my own labour can bring me; and while that little pink-faced chit Amelia, with not half my sense, has ten thousandv
现在，作为我们在前几页中描绘的和蔼可亲的家庭的一员，丽贝卡自然有责任让自己像她所说的那样，让她的恩人满意，并尽最大努力赢得他们的信任。力量。谁能不钦佩一个不受保护的孤儿的这种感恩品质？而且，如果她的计算中包含了某种程度的自私，那么谁能说她的谨慎是完全合理的呢？ “我在这个世界上孤独一人，”无依无靠的女孩说道。 ‘除了我自己的劳动能给我带来的东西之外，我别无所求；而那个粉红脸的小姑娘阿米莉亚，虽然没有我一半的理智，却拥有一万个

Chapter XI
第十一章


Arcadian Simplicity
田园诗般的简约

Besides these honest folks at the Hall (whose simplicity and sweet rural purity surely show the advantage of a country life over a town one), we must introduce the reader to their relatives and neighbours at the Rectory, Bute Crawley and his wife.
除了大厅里的这些诚实的人们（他们的纯朴和甜蜜的乡村纯真无疑表明了乡村生活相对于城镇生活的优势）之外，我们还必须向读者介绍他们在教区长官邸的亲戚和邻居，布特·克劳利和他的妻子。

The Reverend Bute Crawley was a tall, stately, jolly, shovel-hatted man, far more popular in his county than the Baronet his brother. At college he pulled stroke-oar in the Christchurch boat, and had thrashed all the best bruisers of the ‘town.’ He carried his taste for boxing and athletic exercises into private life; there was not a fight within twenty miles at which he was not present, nor a race, nor a coursing match, nor a regatta, nor a ball, nor an election, nor a visitation dinner, nor indeed a good dinner in the whole county, but he found means to attend it. You might see his bay mare and gig-lamps a score of miles away from his Rectory House, whenever there was any dinner-party at Fuddleston, or at Roxby, or at Wapshot Hall, or at the great lords of the county, with all of whom he was intimate. He had a fine voice; sang ‘A southerly wind and a cloudy sky”; and gave the ‘whoop’ in chorus with general applause. He rode to hounds in a pepper-and-salt frock, and was one of the best fishermen in the county.
布特·克劳利牧师身材高大、庄严、快乐，戴着铲形帽，在他的县里比他的兄弟从男爵更受欢迎。大学时，他在基督城的船上划桨，击败了“镇上”所有最好的拳手。他将自己对拳击和运动锻炼的爱好带入了私人生活；二十英里之内没有一场斗殴他不在场，没有一场比赛，没有一场赛马比赛，没有一场帆船赛，没有一场舞会，没有一次选举，没有一次探访晚宴，甚至在全县也没有一顿丰盛的晚宴。 ，但他找到了参加的方法。每当在富德尔斯顿、罗克斯比、沃普肖特大厅或郡里的大领主们举办晚宴时，你可能会在距离他的教区长官邸二十英里外看到他的海湾母马和台灯。他与谁很亲密。他的声音很好听。唱着“南风多云”；并在热烈的掌声中合唱“呼喊”。他穿着胡椒和盐的衣服骑着猎犬，是该县最好的渔夫之一。

Mrs. Crawley, the rector’s wife, was a smart little body, who wrote this worthy divine’s sermons. Being of a domestic turn, and keeping the house a great deal with her daughters, she ruled absolutely within the Rectory, wisely giving her husband full liberty without. He was welcome to come and go, and dine abroad as many days as his fancy dictated, for Mrs. Crawley was a saving woman and knew the price of port wine. Ever since Mrs. Bute carried off the young Rector of Queen’s Crawley (she was of a good family, daughter of the late Lieut.-Colonel Hector McTavish, and she and her mother played for Bute and won him at Harrowgate), she had been a prudent and thrifty wife to him. In spite of her care, however, he was always in debt. It took him at least ten years to pay off his college bills contracted during his father’s lifetime. In the year 179-, when he was just clear of these incumbrances, he gave the odds of 100 to 1 (in twenties) against Kangaroo, who won the Derby. The Rector was obliged to take up the money at a ruinous interest, and had been struggling ever since. His sister helped him with a hundred now and then, but of course his great hope was in her death— when ‘hang it’ (as he would say), ‘Matilda must leave me half her money.’
克劳利夫人是教区长的妻子，她是一位聪明的小个子，她写下了这位值得尊敬的神职人员的布道文。作为一个家庭主妇，她经常和女儿们一起操持家务，她在教区长府内拥有绝对的统治权，明智地在教区外给予她丈夫充分的自由。欢迎他来来去去，并根据自己的喜好在国外用餐几天，因为克劳利夫人是一个节约的女人，知道波特酒的价格。自从布特夫人带走了年轻的皇后克劳利校长（她出身名门，是已故赫克托·麦克塔维什中校的女儿，她和她的母亲为布特效力，并在哈罗盖特赢得了他的胜利），她就一直是他有一个谨慎、节俭的妻子。然而，尽管有她的照顾，他却始终负债累累。他至少花了十年时间才还清父亲在世时签订的大学学费。 179年，当他刚刚摆脱这些负担时，他对袋鼠队给出了100比1（二十几）的赔率，后者赢得了德比。校长不得不以毁灭性的利息收下这笔钱，从那时起他就一直在苦苦挣扎。他的姐姐时不时地帮他一百块钱，但当然，他最大的希望就是她的死——当“挂掉它”（正如他会说的）时，“玛蒂尔达必须把一半的钱留给我。”

So that the Baronet and his brother had every reason which two brothers possibly can have for being by the ears. Sir Pitt had had the better of Bute in innumerable family transactions. Young Pitt not only did not hunt, but set up a meeting house under his uncle’s very nose. Rawdon, it was known, was to come in for the bulk of Miss Crawley’s property. These money transactions—these speculations in life and death—these silent battles for reversionary spoil—make brothers very loving towards each other in Vanity Fair. I, for my part, have known a five-pound note to interpose and knock up a half century’s attachment between two brethren; and can’t but admire, as I think what a fine and durable thing Love is among worldly people.
这样一来，准男爵和他的兄弟就有了两兄弟可能有的一切理由来听着。皮特爵士在无数的家族交易中都击败了布特。年轻的皮特不但不打猎，反而在叔叔眼皮子底下建立了一个聚会所。据了解，罗登将继承克劳利小姐的大部分财产。这些金钱交易，这些生死攸关的投机，这些为归还战利品而进行的无声战斗，使《名利场》中的兄弟彼此相爱。就我而言，我知道一张五英镑的钞票可以调解和消除两个兄弟之间半个世纪的感情；不能不佩服，我想爱情对于世人来说是多么美好而持久的东西。

It cannot be supposed that the arrival of such a personage as Rebecca at Queen’s Crawley, and her gradual establishment in the good graces of all people there, could be unremarked by Mrs. Bute Crawley. Mrs. Bute, who knew how many days the sirloin of beef lasted at the Hall; how much linen was got ready at the great wash; how many peaches were on the south wall; how many doses her ladyship took when she was ill—for such points are matters of intense interest to certain persons in the country—Mrs. Bute, I say, could not pass over the Hall governess without making every inquiry respecting her history and character. There was always the best understanding between the servants at the Rectory and the Hall. There was always a good glass of ale in the kitchen of the former place for the Hall people, whose ordinary drink was very small—and, indeed, the Rector’s lady knew exactly how much malt went to every barrel of Hall beer—ties of relationship existed between the Hall and Rectory domestics, as between their masters; and through these channels each family was perfectly well acquainted with the doings of the other. That, by the way, may be set down as a general remark. When you and your brother are friends, his doings are indifferent to you. When you have quarrelled, all his outgoings and incomings you know, as if you were his spy.
不能认为像丽贝卡这样的人物来到女王克劳利，以及她逐渐赢得那里所有人的好感，不会被布特克劳利夫人注意到。布特太太，谁知道牛里脊肉在大厅里能保存多少天；大洗时准备了多少亚麻布；南墙上有多少个桃子？夫人生病时服用了多少剂量——因为这些问题是该国某些人非常关心的问题——夫人。我想说的是，如果不尊重霍尔家庭女教师的历史和性格，布特就不可能忽略她。教区长官和大厅的仆人之间总是有着最好的默契。以前的厨房里总是为霍尔人准备了一杯上好的麦芽酒，他们平常喝的酒量很小——而且，事实上，教区长的夫人确切地知道每桶霍尔啤酒中含有多少麦芽——关系的纽带大厅和教区长官之间存在着关系，就像他们的主人之间一样。通过这些渠道，每个家庭都非常了解对方的所作所为。顺便说一句，这可以作为一般性评论。当你和你的兄弟是朋友时，他的所作所为对你来说是无所谓的。当你们吵架的时候，他的一举一动你都知道，就好像你是他的间谍一样。

Very soon then after her arrival, Rebecca began to take a regular place in Mrs. Crawley’s bulletin from the Hall. It was to this effect: ‘The black porker’s killed—weighed x stone—salted the sides—pig’s pudding and leg of pork for dinner. Mr. Cramp from Mudbury, over with Sir Pitt about putting John Blackmore in gaol— Mr. Pitt at meeting (with all the names of the people who attended) —my lady as usual—the young ladies with the governess.’
抵达后不久，丽贝卡就开始在克劳利夫人的大厅公告中占有一席之地。其大意是这样的：“黑猪肉被宰杀——称重x石——在两侧加盐——晚餐是猪布丁和猪腿。”来自马德伯里的克兰普先生，与皮特爵士讨论了将约翰·布莱克莫尔关进监狱的事——皮特先生在开会（列出了所有参加者的名字）——像往常一样，我的女士——年轻的女士们和家庭女教师。

Then the report would come—the new governess be a rare manager—Sir Pitt be very sweet on her—Mr. Crawley too—He be reading tracts to her—‘What an abandoned wretch!’ said little, eager, active, blackfaced Mrs. Bute Crawley.
然后报告就会来——新的家庭女教师是一位罕见的经理——皮特爵士对她非常好——皮特先生。克劳利也在——他正在给她读小册子——“真是个被遗弃的可怜虫！”布特·克劳利太太小声、热切、活跃、黑脸地说。

Finally, the reports were that the governess had ‘come round’ everybody, wrote Sir Pitt’s letters, did his business, managed his accounts—had the upper hand of the whole house, my lady, Mr. Crawley, the girls and all—at which Mrs. Crawley declared she was an artful hussy, and had some dreadful designs in view. Thus the doings at the Hall were the great food for conversation at the Rectory, and Mrs. Bute’s bright eyes spied out everything that took place in the enemy’s camp—everything and a great deal besides.
最后，报告说，家庭女教师已经“围拢”了每个人，写皮特爵士的信，做他的生意，管理他的账目——控制了整个房子，我的女士，克劳利先生，女孩们等等——在克劳利夫人宣称她是个狡猾的女人，并且有一些可怕的计划。因此，礼堂里的所作所为是教区长谈话的主要内容，布特夫人明亮的眼睛监视着敌人营地中发生的一切——除此之外，还有很多事情。

Mrs. Bute Crawley to Miss Pinkerton, The Mall, Chiswick.
布特·克劳利夫人对平克顿小姐，奇西克购物中心。

Rectory, Queen’s Crawley, December—.
教区长，皇后克劳利，十二月——。

My Dear Madam,—Although it is so many years since I profited by your delightful and invaluable instructions, yet I have ever retained the FONDEST and most reverential regard for Miss Pinkerton, and DEAR Chiswick. I hope your health is GOOD. The world and the cause of education cannot afford to lose Miss Pinkerton for MANY MANY YEARS. When my friend, Lady Fuddleston, mentioned that her dear girls required an instructress (I am too poor to engage a governess for mine, but was I not educated at Chiswick?)—‘Who,’ I exclaimed, ‘can we consult but the excellent, the incomparable Miss Pinkerton?’ In a word, have you, dear madam, any ladies on your list, whose services might be made available to my kind friend and neighbour? I assure you she will take no governess BUT OF YOUR CHOOSING.
亲爱的女士，尽管我已经很多年没有从您令人愉快和宝贵的指导中受益，但我仍然对平克顿小姐和亲爱的奇西克保持着最深切和最崇敬的敬意。我希望您身体健康。多年来，世界和教育事业都不能失去平克顿小姐。当我的朋友福德尔斯顿夫人提到她亲爱的女儿们需要一名女教师时（我太穷了，无法为自己聘请一名家庭女教师，但我不是在奇西克受过教育吗？）——“谁，”我惊呼道，“除了老师，我们还能咨询谁吗？”太棒了，无与伦比的平克顿小姐？总之，亲爱的女士，您的名单上有任何一位女士可以为我的好朋友和邻居提供服务吗？我向你保证，除非你选择，否则她不会接受任何家庭教师。

My dear husband is pleased to say that he likes EVERYTHING WHICH COMES FROM MISS PINKERTON’S SCHOOL. How I wish I could present him and my beloved girls to the friend of my youth, and the ADMIRED of the great lexicographer of our country! If you ever travel into Hampshire, Mr. Crawley begs me to say, he hopes you will adorn our RURAL RECTORY with your presence. ‘Tis the humble but happy home of
我亲爱的丈夫很高兴地说他喜欢平克顿小姐学校的一切。我多么希望能够把他和我心爱的女儿们介绍给我年轻时的朋友和我们国家伟大的词典编纂者的敬佩者！克劳利先生恳求我说，如果您曾前往汉普郡，他希望您的光临能够让我们的乡村教区长住所变得更加美丽。这是一个简陋但幸福的家

Your affectionate Martha Crawley
你深情的玛莎·克劳利

P.S. Mr. Crawley’s brother, the baronet, with whom we are not, alas! upon those terms of UNITY in which it BECOMES BRETHREN TO DWELL, has a governess for his little girls, who, I am told, had the good fortune to be educated at Chiswick. I hear various reports of her; and as I have the tenderest interest in my dearest little nieces, whom I wish, in spite of family differences, to see among my own children—and as I long to be attentive to ANY PUPIL OF YOURS— do, my dear Miss Pinkerton, tell me the history of this young lady, whom, for YOUR SAKE, I am most anxious to befriend.—M. C.
附：克劳利先生的弟弟，从男爵，我们没有和他在一起，唉！根据成为兄弟居住的团结条款，他为他的小女儿们配备了一位家庭教师，据我所知，她们有幸在奇西克接受了教育。我听到了关于她的各种报道；因为我对我最亲爱的小侄女怀有最温柔的兴趣，尽管家庭存在差异，但我希望在我自己的孩子中看到她们——并且我渴望关注您的任何一个学生——我亲爱的平克顿小姐，告诉我这位年轻女士的历史，看在你的份上，我最想和她交朋友。 C。

Miss Pinkerton to Mrs. Bute Crawley.
平克顿小姐致布特·克劳利夫人。

Johnson House, Chiswick, Dec. 18—.
约翰逊之家，奇西克，12 月 18 日——。

Dear Madam,—I have the honour to acknowledge your polite communication, to which I promptly reply. ‘Tis most gratifying to one in my most arduous position to find that my maternal cares have elicited a responsive affection; and to recognize in the amiable Mrs. Bute Crawley my excellent pupil of former years, the sprightly and accomplished Miss Martha MacTavish. I am happy to have under my charge now the daughters of many of those who were your contemporaries at my establishment—what pleasure it would give me if your own beloved young ladies had need of my instructive superintendence!
亲爱的女士，——我很荣幸感谢您的礼貌沟通，我会立即回复。 “对于一个处于最艰苦处境的人来说，最令人欣慰的是发现我的母性关怀引发了一种回应性的情感；我还认识到了和蔼可亲的布特·克劳利夫人，她是我往年的优秀学生，活泼而多才多艺的玛莎·麦克塔维什小姐。我很高兴现在在我的机构中拥有许多与您同时代的人的女儿，如果您心爱的年轻女士需要我的指导性监督，那将给我带来多大的快乐！

Presenting my respectful compliments to Lady Fuddleston, I have the honour (epistolarily) to introduce to her ladyship my two friends, Miss Tuffin and Miss Hawky.
向富德尔斯顿夫人致以崇高的敬意，我很荣幸（以书信方式）向她介绍我的两位朋友，图芬小姐和霍基小姐。

Either of these young ladies is PERFECTLY QUALIFIED to instruct in Greek, Latin, and the rudiments of Hebrew; in mathematics and history; in Spanish, French, Italian, and geography; in music, vocal and instrumental; in dancing, without the aid of a master; and in the elements of natural sciences. In the use of the globes both are proficients. In addition to these Miss Tuffin, who is daughter of the late Reverend Thomas Tuffin (Fellow of Corpus College, Cambridge), can instruct in the Syriac language, and the elements of Constitutional law. But as she is only eighteen years of age, and of exceedingly pleasing personal appearance, perhaps this young lady may be objectionable in Sir Huddleston Fuddleston’s family.
这些年轻女士中的任何一个都完全有资格教授希腊语、拉丁语和希伯来语基础知识。数学和历史；西班牙语、法语、意大利语和地理；音乐、声乐和器乐；在没有老师帮助的情况下跳舞；以及自然科学的要素。在地球仪的使用上，两人都很熟练。除此之外，已故牧师托马斯·图芬（剑桥语料库学院院士）的女儿图芬女士还可以用叙利亚语和宪法要素进行教学。但由于她才十八岁，而且长相又十分讨人喜欢，这位小姐在赫德尔斯顿爵士的家族里或许会令人反感。

Miss Letitia Hawky, on the other hand, is not personally wellfavoured. She is-twenty-nine; her face is much pitted with the small-pox. She has a halt in her gait, red hair, and a trifling obliquity of vision. Both ladies are endowed with EVERY MORAL AND RELIGIOUS VIRTUE. Their terms, of course, are such as their accomplishments merit. With my most grateful respects to the Reverend Bute Crawley, I have the honour to be,
另一方面，利蒂西亚·霍基小姐个人并不受到青睐。她——二十九岁；她的脸上长满了天花。她的步态有些停顿，头发是红色的，视线有些倾斜。两位女士都被赋予了一切道德和宗教美德。当然，他们的条件取决于他们的成就。谨向布特·克劳利牧师致以最诚挚的敬意，我很荣幸，

Dear Madam,
尊敬的女士，

Your most faithful and obedient servant, Barbara Pinkerton.
您最忠实、最听话的仆人，芭芭拉·平克顿。

P.S. The Miss Sharp, whom you mention as governess to Sir Pitt Crawley, Bart., M.P., was a pupil of mine, and I have nothing to say in her disfavour. Though her appearance is disagreeable, we cannot control the operations of nature: and though her parents were disreputable (her father being a painter, several times bankrupt, and her mother, as I have since learned, with horror, a dancer at the Opera); yet her talents are considerable, and I cannot regret that I received her OUT OF CHARITY. My dread is, lest the principles of the mother—who was represented to me as a French Countess, forced to emigrate in the late revolutionary horrors; but who, as I have since found, was a person of the very lowest order and morals—should at any time prove to be HEREDITARY in the unhappy young woman whom I took as AN OUTCAST. But her principles have hitherto been correct (I believe), and I am sure nothing will occur to injure them in the elegant and refined circle of the eminent Sir Pitt Crawley.
附：你提到的夏普小姐是我的学生，我对她无话可说，她是议员皮特·克劳利爵士的家庭教师。尽管她的外表令人不快，但我们无法控制自然的运作：尽管她的父母声名狼藉（她的父亲是一位画家，多次破产，而她的母亲，据我后来惊恐地了解到，是歌剧院的舞者） ;但她才华横溢，我并不后悔出于慈善目的而接待她。我担心的是，担心母亲的原则——在我看来，她是一位法国伯爵夫人，在最近的革命恐怖中被迫移民；但是，正如我后来发现的那样，她是一个秩序和道德最低下的人，在任何时候都应该证明我认为是一个不幸的年轻女子是世袭的。但迄今为止，她的原则都是正确的（我相信），而且我确信，在著名的皮特·克劳利爵士优雅而精致的圈子里，不会发生任何伤害他们的事情。

Miss Rebecca Sharp to Miss Amelia Sedley.
丽贝卡·夏普小姐致阿米莉亚·塞德利小姐。

I have not written to my beloved Amelia for these many weeks past, for what news was there to tell of the sayings and doings at Humdrum Hall, as I have christened it; and what do you care whether the turnip crop is good or bad; whether the fat pig weighed thirteen stone or fourteen; and whether the beasts thrive well upon mangelwurzel? Every day since I last wrote has been like its neighbour. Before breakfast, a walk with Sir Pitt and his spud; after breakfast studies (such as they are) in the schoolroom; after schoolroom, reading and writing about lawyers, leases, coal-mines, canals, with Sir Pitt (whose secretary I am become); after dinner, Mr. Crawley’s discourses on the baronet’s backgammon; during both of which amusements my lady looks on with equal placidity. She has become rather more interesting by being ailing of late, which has brought a new visitor to the Hall, in the person of a young doctor. Well, my dear, young women need never despair. The young doctor gave a certain friend of yours to understand that, if she chose to be Mrs. Glauber, she was welcome to ornament the surgery! I told his impudence that the gilt pestle and mortar was quite ornament enough; as if I was born, indeed, to be a country surgeon’s wife! Mr. Glauber went home seriously indisposed at his rebuff, took a cooling draught, and is now quite cured. Sir Pitt applauded my resolution highly; he would be sorry to lose his little secretary, I think; and I believe the old wretch likes me as much as it is in his nature to like any one. Marry, indeed! and with a country apothecary, after— No, no, one cannot so soon forget old associations, about which I will talk no more. Let us return to Humdrum Hall.
我已经好几个星期没有给我心爱的阿米莉亚写信了，因为那里有什么消息可以讲述我给它命名的汉德鲁姆大厅的言行？萝卜的收成是好是坏，你又关心什么？肥猪的重量是十三石还是十四石；这些野兽在曼格尔沃泽尔上是否能茁壮成长？自从我上次写信以来，每一天都像它的邻居一样。早餐前，与皮特爵士和他的马铃薯一起散步；早餐后在教室学习（就像现在这样）；课后，和皮特爵士（我成为他的秘书）一起阅读和写作有关律师、租赁、煤矿、运河的文章；晚餐后，克劳利先生谈论从男爵的西洋双陆棋；在这两次娱乐活动中，我的女士都以同样平静的态度观看。她最近生病了，这让她变得更加有趣，这给大厅带来了一位新访客，他是一位年轻的医生。好吧，亲爱的，年轻女性永远不需要绝望。年轻的医生给你的某位朋友了解，如果她选择做格劳伯夫人，欢迎她来点缀手术！我告诉他的厚颜无耻，镀金杵和研钵已经足够装饰了；就好像我生来就是一个乡村外科医生的妻子一样！格劳伯先生在他的拒绝下回到家，身体严重不适，喝了一杯清凉饮料，现在已经痊愈了。皮特爵士对我的决心表示高度赞赏。我想，如果他失去了他的小秘书，他一定会感到遗憾。我相信这个老家伙喜欢我，就像他天性喜欢任何人一样。结婚吧，确实！和一位乡村药剂师，之后——不，不，人们不能这么快就忘记旧的联系，对此我不再谈论。让我们回到乏味大厅。

For some time past it is Humdrum Hall no longer. My dear, Miss Crawley has arrived with her fat horses, fat servants, fat spaniel— the great rich Miss Crawley, with seventy thousand pounds in the five per cents., whom, or I had better say WHICH, her two brothers adore. She looks very apoplectic, the dear soul; no wonder her brothers are anxious about her. You should see them struggling to settle her cushions, or to hand her coffee! ‘When I come into the country,’ she says (for she has a great deal of humour), ‘I leave my toady, Miss Briggs, at home. My brothers are my toadies here, my dear, and a pretty pair they are!’
一段时间以来，这里不再是单调乏味的大厅。亲爱的，克劳利小姐带着她的肥马、肥仆人、肥西班牙猎犬来了——这位富有的克劳利小姐，拥有七万英镑的百分之五。，或者我最好说她的两个兄弟喜欢她。她看起来很中风，亲爱的灵魂；难怪她的兄弟们都为她担心。你应该看到他们努力安顿她的坐垫，或者给她递咖啡！ “当我来到这个国家时，”她说（因为她很有幽默感），“我把我的马屁精布里格斯小姐留在家里。我的兄弟们是我的阿谀奉承者，亲爱的，他们是一对漂亮的情侣！

When she comes into the country our hall is thrown open, and for a month, at least, you would fancy old Sir Walpole was come to life again. We have dinner-parties, and drive out in the coach-and-four the footmen put on their newest canary-coloured liveries; we drink claret and champagne as if we were accustomed to it every day. We have wax candles in the schoolroom, and fires to warm ourselves with. Lady Crawley is made to put on the brightest pea-green in her wardrobe, and my pupils leave off their thick shoes and tight old tartan pelisses, and wear silk stockings and muslin frocks, as fashionable baronets’ daughters should. Rose came in yesterday in a sad plight—the Wiltshire sow (an enormous pet of hers) ran her down, and destroyed a most lovely flowered lilac silk dress by dancing over it—had this happened a week ago, Sir Pitt would have sworn frightfully, have boxed the poor wretch’s ears, and put her upon bread and water for a month. All he said was, ‘I’ll serve you out, Miss, when your aunt’s gone,’ and laughed off the accident as quite trivial. Let us hope his wrath will have passed away before Miss Crawley’s departure. I hope so, for Miss Rose’s sake, I am sure. What a charming reconciler and peacemaker money is!
当她来到这个国家时，我们的大厅就开放了，至少在一个月内，你会想象老沃波尔爵士又复活了。我们举办晚宴，然后乘坐马车出发——四个男仆穿上了最新的金丝雀色制服；我们喝红葡萄酒和香槟，就好像我们每天都习惯一样。我们教室里有蜡烛，还有火来取暖。克劳利夫人被要求穿上衣柜里最亮的豌豆绿，我的学生们脱掉厚鞋子和紧身旧格子呢外套，穿上丝袜和棉布连衣裙，就像时尚从男爵的女儿们应该做的那样。罗丝昨天陷入了悲惨的困境——威尔特郡的母猪（她的一只巨大的宠物）把她撞倒了，并在一件最可爱的紫丁香丝绸连衣裙上跳舞，毁掉了它——如果这件事发生在一周前，皮特爵士会发誓可怕的，打了这个可怜虫的耳朵，让她一个月只吃面包和水。他只说了一句：“小姐，等你阿姨走了之后，我会伺候你的。”然后就笑了笑，认为这次事故是微不足道的。让我们希望他的愤怒能在克劳利小姐离开之前平息吧。我确信，我希望如此，看在罗斯小姐的份上。金钱是多么迷人的调和者和和事佬啊！

Another admirable effect of Miss Crawley and her seventy thousand pounds is to be seen in the conduct of the two brothers Crawley. I mean the baronet and the rector, not OUR brothers—but the former, who hate each other all the year round, become quite loving at Christmas. I wrote to you last year how the abominable horse-racing rector was in the habit of preaching clumsy sermons at us at church, and how Sir Pitt snored in answer. When Miss Crawley arrives there is no such thing as quarrelling heard of—the Hall visits the Rectory, and vice versa—the parson and the Baronet talk about the pigs and the poachers, and the county business, in the most affable manner, and without quarrelling in their cups, I believe—indeed Miss Crawley won’t hear of their quarrelling, and vows that she will leave her money to the Shropshire Crawleys if they offend her. If they were clever people, those Shropshire Crawleys, they might have it all, I think; but the Shropshire Crawley is a clergyman like his Hampshire cousin, and mortally offended Miss Crawley (who had fled thither in a fit of rage against her impracticable brethren) by some strait-laced notions of morality. He would have prayers in the house, I believe.
克劳利小姐和她的七万英镑的另一个令人钦佩的影响可以从克劳利两兄弟的行为中看出。我指的是男爵和教区长，不是我们的兄弟，而是前者，他们常年互相憎恨，但在圣诞节却变得非常相爱。我去年写信给你，可恶的赛马教区长习惯于在教堂里对我们进行笨拙的布道，而皮特爵士则如何用鼾声作为回应。当克劳利小姐到达时，没有听说过吵架之类的事情——大厅参观了教区长，反之亦然——牧师和男爵以最和蔼可亲的方式谈论猪、偷猎者和县里的事情。我相信，他们在杯子里吵架——事实上，克劳利小姐不会听到他们的争吵，并且发誓，如果什罗普郡克劳利夫妇冒犯了她，她会把钱留给他们。我想，如果什罗普郡克劳利一家是聪明人，他们可能会拥有一切。但什罗普郡的克劳利和他的汉普郡表弟一样都是牧师，他的一些严格的道德观念极大地冒犯了克劳利小姐（她因为对她不切实际的弟兄的愤怒而逃到那里）。我相信他会在家里祈祷。

Our sermon books are shut up when Miss Crawley arrives, and Mr. Pitt, whom she abominates, finds it convenient to go to town. On the other hand, the young dandy—‘blood,’ I believe, is the term— Captain Crawley makes his appearance, and I suppose you will like to know what sort of a person he is.
当克劳利小姐到来时，我们的布道书就被合起来了，她讨厌的皮特先生发现进城很方便。另一方面，年轻的花花公子——我相信是“血统”这个词——克劳利船长登场，我想你会想知道他是一个什么样的人。

Well, he is a very large young dandy. He is six feet high, and speaks with a great voice; and swears a great deal; and orders about the servants, who all adore him nevertheless; for he is very generous of his money, and the domestics will do anything for him. Last week the keepers almost killed a bailiff and his man who came down from London to arrest the Captain, and who were found lurking about the Park wall—they beat them, ducked them, and were going to shoot them for poachers, but the baronet interfered.
嗯，他是一个非常大的年轻花花公子。他身高六英尺，说话声音很大；并且发很多脏话；并对仆人们发号施令，尽管如此，他们都崇拜他；因为他出手阔绰，仆人愿意为他做任何事。上周，看门人差点杀死了一名从伦敦来逮捕船长的法警和他的手下，他们被发现潜伏在公园围墙附近——他们殴打他们，躲避他们，并准备将他们射杀为偷猎者，但从男爵干扰。

The Captain has a hearty contempt for his father, I can see, and calls him an old PUT, an old SNOB, an old CHAW-BACON, and numberless other pretty names. He has a DREADFUL REPUTATION among the ladies. He brings his hunters home with him, lives with the Squires of the county, asks whom he pleases to dinner, and Sir Pitt dares not say no, for fear of offending Miss Crawley, and missing his legacy when she dies of her apoplexy. Shall I tell you a compliment the Captain paid me? I must, it is so pretty. One evening we actually had a dance; there was Sir Huddleston Fuddleston and his family, Sir Giles Wapshot and his young ladies, and I don’t know how many more. Well, I heard him say—‘By Jove, she’s a neat little filly!’ meaning your humble servant; and he did me the honour to dance two country-dances with me. He gets on pretty gaily with the young Squires, with whom he drinks, bets, rides, and talks about hunting and shooting; but he says the country girls are BORES; indeed, I don’t think he is far wrong. You should see the contempt with which they look down on poor me! When they dance I sit and play the piano very demurely; but the other night, coming in rather flushed from the dining-room, and seeing me employed in this way, he swore out loud that I was the best dancer in the room, and took a great oath that he would have the fiddlers from Mudbury.
我看得出来，船长对他的父亲怀有由衷的蔑视，并称他为老PUT、老势利小人、老CHAW-BACON，以及无数其他漂亮的名字。他在女士们中的名声很坏。他把他的猎人带回家，和县里的乡绅住在一起，问他请谁来吃饭，皮特爵士不敢拒绝，因为担心冒犯克劳利小姐，并在她因中风去世后错过他的遗产。我要告诉你船长对我的赞美吗？必须啊，太漂亮了一天晚上，我们实际上举行了一场舞会；还有赫德尔斯顿·福德尔斯顿爵士和他的家人，贾尔斯·瓦普肖特爵士和他的年轻女士们，我不知道还有多少。嗯，我听到他说——“天哪，她是一匹漂亮的小母马！”指的是你卑微的仆人；他很荣幸和我一起跳了两支乡村舞。他和年轻的乡绅相处得很愉快，一起喝酒、打赌、骑马，谈论狩猎和射击。但他说乡下姑娘很无聊；确实，我不认为他错得离谱。你应该看到他们对可怜的我的蔑视！当他们跳舞的时候，我很端庄地坐着弹钢琴；但那天晚上，他从餐厅进来，脸色涨得通红，看到我这样受雇，他大声发誓说我是房间里最好的舞者，并发誓他会雇用来自马德伯里的小提琴手。 。

‘I’ll go and play a country-dance,’ said Mrs. Bute Crawley, very readily (she is a little, black-faced old woman in a turban, rather crooked, and with very twinkling eyes); and after the Captain and your poor little Rebecca had performed a dance together, do you know she actually did me the honour to compliment me upon my steps! Such a thing was never heard of before; the proud Mrs. Bute Crawley, first cousin to the Earl of Tiptoff, who won’t condescend to visit Lady Crawley, except when her sister is in the country. Poor Lady Crawley! during most part of these gaieties, she is upstairs taking pills.
“我去跳一场乡村舞，”布特·克劳利夫人很乐意地说（她是个身材矮小、黑脸、戴着头巾的老妇人，身体有点歪，眼睛闪闪发亮）；在船长和你可怜的小丽贝卡一起跳舞之后，你知道吗，她实际上很荣幸地称赞我的脚步！以前从来没有听说过这样的事。骄傲的布特·克劳利夫人是蒂普托夫伯爵的表弟，她不会屈尊拜访克劳利夫人，除非她的妹妹在乡下。可怜的克劳利夫人！在这些欢乐的大部分时间里，她都在楼上吃药。

Mrs. Bute has all of a sudden taken a great fancy to me. ‘My dear Miss Sharp,’ she says, ‘why not bring over your girls to the Rectory?—their cousins will be so happy to see them.’ I know what she means. Signor Clementi did not teach us the piano for nothing; at which price Mrs. Bute hopes to get a professor for her children. I can see through her schemes, as though she told them to me; but I shall go, as I am determined to make myself agreeable—is it not a poor governess’s duty, who has not a friend or protector in the world? The Rector’s wife paid me a score of compliments about the progress my pupils made, and thought, no doubt, to touch my heart— poor, simple, country soul!—as if I cared a fig about my pupils!
布特夫人突然很喜欢我。 “我亲爱的夏普小姐，”她说，“为什么不把你的女儿们带到教区长官邸来呢？——她们的堂兄弟姐妹见到她们一定会很高兴的。”我明白她的意思。克莱门蒂先生教我们弹钢琴不是白费的；他教我们弹钢琴。布特夫人希望以这个价格为她的孩子们找到一位教授。我能看穿她的阴谋，就好像她告诉过我一样；但我还是要走了，因为我决心让自己变得和蔼可亲——这难道不是一个在世界上没有朋友或保护者的可怜的家庭女教师的职责吗？校长的妻子对我的学生所取得的进步给予了我很多赞美，毫无疑问，她想触动我的心——可怜的、简单的、乡村的灵魂！——就好像我不在乎我的学生一样！

Your India muslin and your pink silk, dearest Amelia, are said to become me very well. They are a good deal worn now; but, you know, we poor girls can’t afford des fraiches toilettes. Happy, happy you! who have but to drive to St. James’s Street, and a dear mother who will give you any thing you ask. Farewell, dearest girl,
亲爱的阿米莉亚，据说你的印度平纹细布和粉红色丝绸很适合我。它们现在已经磨损得很厉害了。但是，你知道，我们贫穷的女孩买不起普通的厕所。快乐，你快乐！她们只需开车去圣詹姆斯街，还有一位亲爱的母亲，她会满足你的任何要求。再见了，最亲爱的女孩，

Your affectionate Rebecca.
你深情的丽贝卡。

P.S.—I wish you could have seen the faces of the Miss Blackbrooks (Admiral Blackbrook’s daughters, my dear), fine young ladies, with dresses from London, when Captain Rawdon selected poor me for a partner!
附言——当罗登船长选择可怜的我作为搭档时，我希望你能看到布莱克布鲁克小姐（布莱克布鲁克海军上将的女儿们，亲爱的）的面孔，她们是穿着伦敦衣服的漂亮年轻女士！

When Mrs. Bute Crawley (whose artifices our ingenious Rebecca had so soon discovered) had procured from Miss Sharp the promise of a visit, she induced the all-powerful Miss Crawley to make the necessary application to Sir Pitt, and the good-natured old lady, who loved to be gay herself, and to see every one gay and happy round about her, was quite charmed, and ready to establish a reconciliation and intimacy between her two brothers. It was therefore agreed that the young people of both families should visit each other frequently for the future, and the friendship of course lasted as long as the jovial old mediatrix was there to keep the peace.
当布特·克劳利夫人（我们聪明的丽贝卡很快就发现了她的诡计）从夏普小姐那里得到了拜访的承诺时，她诱使全能的克劳利小姐向皮特爵士提出了必要的申请，而善良的老这位女士本身就喜欢同性恋，并且看到周围的每个人都同性恋快乐，她非常着迷，并准备在她的两个兄弟之间建立和解和亲密关系。于是约定，两家的年轻人以后要经常互相拜访，只要有那位开朗的老媒婆在场维持和平，友谊当然会持续下去。

‘Why did you ask that scoundrel, Rawdon Crawley, to dine?’ said the Rector to his lady, as they were walking home through the park. ‘I don’t want the fellow. He looks down upon us country people as so many blackamoors. He’s never content unless he gets my yellow-sealed wine, which costs me ten shillings a bottle, hang him! Besides, he’s such an infernal character—he’s a gambler—he’s a drunkard—he’s a profligate in every way. He shot a man in a duel—he’s over head and ears in debt, and he’s robbed me and mine of the best part of Miss Crawley’s fortune. Waxy says she has him’—here the Rector shook his fist at the moon, with something very like an oath, and added, in a melancholious tone, ‘—down in her will for fifty thousand; and there won’t be above thirty to divide.’
“你为什么要请那个恶棍罗登·克劳利来吃饭？”当他们穿过公园回家时，校长对他的夫人说道。 ‘我不想要这个家伙。他瞧不起我们乡下人，就像瞧不起黑人一样。他永远不会满足，除非他得到我的黄封酒，这瓶酒要花我十先令一瓶，绞死他！此外，他是一个如此邪恶的人物——他是一个赌徒——他是一个酒鬼——他在各个方面都是一个挥霍者。他在决斗中射杀了一个人——他负债累累，他抢走了我和我的克劳利小姐财产中最好的一部分。瓦克西说她已经得到了他”——这时，教区长对着月亮摇了摇拳头，语气很像发誓，然后用忧郁的语气补充道，“——在她的遗嘱中记下了五万；分配的人数不会超过三十人。

‘I think she’s going,’ said the Rector’s wife. ‘She was very red in the face when we left dinner. I was obliged to unlace her.’
“我想她会去，”校长的妻子说。 “当我们离开晚餐时，她的脸很红。我不得不解开她的鞋带。

‘She drank seven glasses of champagne,’ said the reverend gentleman, in a low voice; ‘and filthy champagne it is, too, that my brother poisons us with—but you women never know what’s what.’
“她喝了七杯香槟，”尊敬的绅士低声说道。 “我哥哥也用肮脏的香槟毒害了我们——但你们这些女人永远不知道那是什么。”

‘We know nothing,’ said Mrs. Bute Crawley.
“我们一无所知，”布特·克劳利夫人说。

‘She drank cherry-brandy after dinner,’ continued his Reverence, ‘and took curacao with her coffee. I wouldn’t take a glass for a five-pound note: it kills me with heartburn. She can’t stand it, Mrs. Crawley—she must go—flesh and blood won’t bear it! and I lay five to two, Matilda drops in a year.’
“晚饭后她喝了樱桃白兰地，”他的尊敬继续说道，“然后喝了库拉索岛咖啡。”我不会用一杯五英镑的钞票来买一杯：它会让我胃灼热。她受不了了，克劳利夫人——她必须走——骨肉之躯无法承受！我打了五比二，玛蒂尔达一年后就跌倒了。”

Indulging in these solemn speculations, and thinking about his debts, and his son Jim at College, and Frank at Woolwich, and the four girls, who were no beauties, poor things, and would not have a penny but what they got from the aunt’s expected legacy, the Rector and his lady walked on for a while.
沉迷于这些庄严的猜测，想着他的债务，他的儿子吉姆在大学，弗兰克在伍尔维奇，还有四个女孩，她们不是美女，可怜的东西，除了从姨妈那里得到的东西之外，一分钱也没有。期待着遗产，教区长和他的夫人又走了一会儿。

‘Pitt can’t be such an infernal villain as to sell the reversion of the living. And that Methodist milksop of an eldest son looks to Parliament,’ continued Mr. Crawley, after a pause.
“皮特不可能是一个出卖生命回归的恶棍。”克劳利先生停顿了一下，继续说道。

‘Sir Pitt Crawley will do anything,’ said the Rector’s wife. ‘We must get Miss Crawley to make him promise it to James.’
“皮特·克劳利爵士会做任何事，”校长的妻子说。 “我们必须让克劳利小姐让他向詹姆斯保证。”

‘Pitt will promise anything,’ replied the brother. ‘He promised he’d pay my college bills, when my father died; he promised he’d build the new wing to the Rectory; he promised he’d let me have Jibb’s field and the Six-acre Meadow—and much he executed his promises! And it’s to this man’s son—this scoundrel, gambler, swindler, murderer of a Rawdon Crawley, that Matilda leaves the bulk of her money. I say it’s un-Christian. By Jove, it is. The infamous dog has got every vice except hypocrisy, and that belongs to his brother.’
“皮特会答应任何事情，”兄弟回答道。 “他答应我父亲去世后，他会支付我的大学学费；他答应为教区长建造新翼楼。他答应让我拥有吉布的田地和六英亩草地——他兑现了他的诺言！玛蒂尔达把大部分钱都留给了这个男人的儿子——这个恶棍、赌徒、骗子、谋杀罗登·克劳利的凶手。我说这是非基督教的。天啊，确实如此。这只臭名昭著的狗除了虚伪之外什么都有，而那是属于他兄弟的。”

‘Hush, my dearest love! we’re in Sir Pitt’s grounds,’ interposed his wife.
‘嘘，我最亲爱的人！ “我们在皮特爵士的庄园里，”他的妻子插嘴道。

‘I say he has got every vice, Mrs. Crawley. Don’t Ma’am, bully me. Didn’t he shoot Captain Marker? Didn’t he rob young Lord Dovedale at the Cocoa-Tree? Didn’t he cross the fight between Bill Soames and the Cheshire Trump, by which I lost forty pound? You know he did; and as for the women, why, you heard that before me, in my own magistrate’s room.’
“我说他有各种恶习，克劳利夫人。夫人别欺负我。他没有射杀马克队长吗？他不是在可可树店抢劫了年轻的多维戴尔勋爵吗？他不是经历了比尔·索姆斯和柴郡特朗普之间的战斗，让我减掉了四十磅吗？你知道他做到了；至于女人，为什么，你在我之前就在我自己的治安官的房间里听到过这件事。

‘For heaven’s sake, Mr. Crawley,’ said the lady, ‘spare me the details.’
“看在上帝的份上，克劳利先生，”女士说，“请别告诉我细节。”

‘And you ask this villain into your house!’ continued the exasperated Rector. ‘You, the mother of a young family—the wife of a clergyman of the Church of England. By Jove!’
“你还邀请这个恶棍进入你的房子！”恼怒的校长继续说道。 “你，一个年轻家庭的母亲——英国教会牧师的妻子。天啊！’

‘Bute Crawley, you are a fool,’ said the Rector’s wife scornfully.
“但是克劳利，你是个傻瓜，”教区长的妻子轻蔑地说。

‘Well, Ma’am, fool or not—and I don’t say, Martha, I’m so clever as you are, I never did. But I won’t meet Rawdon Crawley, that’s flat. I’ll go over to Huddleston, that I will, and see his black greyhound, Mrs. Crawley; and I’ll run Lancelot against him for fifty. By Jove, I will; or against any dog in England. But I won’t meet that beast Rawdon Crawley.’
“好吧，女士，不管你是不是傻瓜——我不会说，玛莎，我和你一样聪明，我从来没有说过。但我不会见到罗登·克劳利，那是平淡的。我要去哈德尔斯顿，我要去，看看他的黑灰狗，克劳利夫人；我会用五十块钱让兰斯洛特对抗他。天哪，我会的；或反对英格兰的任何狗。但我不会见到罗登·克劳利那个野兽。”

‘Mr. Crawley, you are intoxicated, as usual,’ replied his wife. And the next morning, when the Rector woke, and called for small beer, she put him in mind of his promise to visit Sir Huddleston Fuddleston on Saturday, and as he knew he should have a wet night, it was agreed that he might gallop back again in time for church on Sunday morning. Thus it will be seen that the parishioners of Crawley were equally happy in their Squire and in their Rector.
'先生。克劳利，你像往常一样喝醉了，”他的妻子回答道。第二天早上，当校长醒来，要了小杯啤酒时，她让他想起他承诺周六拜访赫德尔斯顿·福德尔斯顿爵士，因为他知道他会度过一个潮湿的夜晚，所以大家同意他可以骑马周日早上又准时去教堂。由此可见，克劳利的教区居民对他们的乡绅和教区长同样感到高兴。

Miss Crawley had not long been established at the Hall before Rebecca’s fascinations had won the heart of that good-natured London rake, as they had of the country innocents whom we have been describing. Taking her accustomed drive, one day, she thought fit to order that ‘that little governess’ should accompany her to Mudbury. Before they had returned Rebecca had made a conquest of her; having made her laugh four times, and amused her during the whole of the little journey.
克劳利小姐在大厅里站稳脚跟不久，丽贝卡的魅力就赢得了那个好心的伦敦浪荡子的心，正如他们赢得了我们所描述的乡村无辜者的心一样。有一天，按照她惯常的驾驶方式，她认为应该命令“那个小家庭女教师”陪她去马德伯里。在他们回来之前，丽贝卡就征服了她。让她笑了四次，并在整个短暂的旅程中逗乐了她。

‘Not let Miss Sharp dine at table!’ said she to Sir Pitt, who had arranged a dinner of ceremony, and asked all the neighbouring baronets. ‘My dear creature, do you suppose I can talk about the nursery with Lady Fuddleston, or discuss justices’ business with that goose, old Sir Giles Wapshot? I insist upon Miss Sharp appearing. Let Lady Crawley remain upstairs, if there is no room. But little Miss Sharp! Why, she’s the only person fit to talk to in the county!’
“别让夏普小姐在餐桌上吃饭！”她对皮特爵士说，皮特爵士已经安排了一场晚宴，并询问了所有邻近的男爵。 “我亲爱的生物，你认为我可以和富德尔斯顿夫人谈论托儿所，或者和那只鹅、老贾尔斯·瓦普肖特爵士讨论法官的事务吗？我坚持让夏普小姐出现。如果没有空间，就让克劳利夫人留在楼上。但是小夏普小姐！哎呀，她是这个县里唯一一个可以说话的人！

Of course, after such a peremptory order as this, Miss Sharp, the governess, received commands to dine with the illustrious company below stairs. And when Sir Huddleston had, with great pomp and ceremony, handed Miss Crawley in to dinner, and was preparing to take his place by her side, the old lady cried out, in a shrill voice, ‘Becky Sharp! Miss Sharp! Come you and sit by me and amuse me; and let Sir Huddleston sit by Lady Wapshot.’
当然，在这样的强制性命令之后，家庭女教师夏普小姐接到命令，要和楼下的显赫人物一起吃饭。当赫德尔斯顿爵士以盛大的仪式把克劳利小姐请进晚餐，并准备在她身边就座时，老太太尖声喊道：“贝基·夏普！”夏普小姐！来吧，坐在我身边逗我开心；让赫德尔斯顿爵士坐在沃普肖特女士旁边。

When the parties were over, and the carriages had rolled away, the insatiable Miss Crawley would say, ‘Come to my dressing room, Becky, and let us abuse the company’—which, between them, this pair of friends did perfectly. Old Sir Huddleston wheezed a great deal at dinner; Sir Giles Wapshot had a particularly noisy manner of imbibing his soup, and her ladyship a wink of the left eye; all of which Becky caricatured to admiration; as well as the particulars of the night’s conversation; the politics; the war; the quartersessions; the famous run with the H.H., and those heavy and dreary themes, about which country gentlemen converse. As for the Misses Wapshot’s toilettes and Lady Fuddleston’s famous yellow hat, Miss Sharp tore them to tatters, to the infinite amusement of her audience.
当聚会结束，马车开走时，贪得无厌的克劳利小姐会说：“到我的更衣室来，贝基，让我们滥用公司”——这对朋友在她们之间做得非常完美。老赫德尔斯顿爵士在晚餐时气喘吁吁。贾尔斯·瓦普肖特爵士喝汤的方式特别吵闹，而夫人则眨了眨左眼。贝基对所有这些都进行了讽刺，以示钦佩；以及当晚谈话的细节；政治;战争;季度会议；著名的与 H.H. 的跑步，以及乡村绅士们谈论的那些沉重而沉闷的主题。至于瓦普肖特小姐的梳妆台和福德尔斯顿夫人著​​名的黄帽子，夏普小姐把它们撕成碎片，给观众带来无限的乐趣。

‘My dear, you are a perfect trouvaille,’ Miss Crawley would say. ‘I wish you could come to me in London, but I couldn’t make a butt of you as I do of poor Briggs no, no, you little sly creature; you are too clever—Isn’t she, Firkin?’
“亲爱的，你真是个完美的游吟诗人，”克劳利小姐会说。 “我希望你能到伦敦来找我，但我不能像对待可怜的布里格斯那样嘲笑你，不，不，你这个狡猾的小家伙；你太聪明了——不是吗，弗金？

Mrs. Firkin (who was dressing the very small remnant of hair which remained on Miss Crawley’s pate), flung up her head and said, ‘I think Miss is very clever,’ with the most killing sarcastic air. In fact, Mrs. Firkin had that natural jealousy which is one of the main principles of every honest woman.
弗金夫人（她正在给克劳利小姐头顶上残留的一小撮头发梳妆）猛地抬起头说道：“我认为小姐很聪明。”语气中充满了致命的讽刺。事实上，菲尔金夫人有一种天生的嫉妒心，这是每个诚实女人的主要原则之一。

After rebuffing Sir Huddleston Fuddleston, Miss Crawley ordered that Rawdon Crawley should lead her in to dinner every day, and that Becky should follow with her cushion—or else she would have Becky’s arm and Rawdon with the pillow. ‘We must sit together,’ she said. ‘We’re the only three Christians in the county, my love’—in which case, it must be confessed, that religion was at a very low ebb in the county of Hants.
在拒绝了赫德尔斯顿·富德尔斯顿爵士之后，克劳利小姐命令罗登·克劳利每天带她去吃晚饭，贝基应该带着她的垫子跟在后面——否则她就会拥有贝基的手臂和罗登的枕头。 “我们必须坐在一起，”她说。 “我们是这个县里仅有的三个基督徒，我的爱人”——在这种情况下，必须承认，汉茨县的宗教正处于一个非常低潮的时期。

Besides being such a fine religionist, Miss Crawley was, as we have said, an Ultra-liberal in opinions, and always took occasion to express these in the most candid manner.
正如我们所说，克劳利小姐除了是一位出色的宗教徒之外，还是一位极端自由派的观点，并且总是抓住机会以最坦率的方式表达这些观点。

‘What is birth, my dear!’ she would say to Rebecca—‘Look at my brother Pitt; look at the Huddlestons, who have been here since Henry II; look at poor Bute at the parsonage—is any one of them equal to you in intelligence or breeding? Equal to you—they are not even equal to poor dear Briggs, my companion, or Bowls, my butler. You, my love, are a little paragon—positively a little jewel—You have more brains than half the shire—if merit had its reward you ought to be a Duchess—no, there ought to be no duchesses at all— but you ought to have no superior, and I consider you, my love, as my equal in every respect; and—will you put some coals on the fire, my dear; and will you pick this dress of mine, and alter it, you who can do it so well?’ So this old philanthropist used to make her equal run of her errands, execute her millinery, and read her to sleep with French novels, every night.
“什么是出生，亲爱的！”她会对丽贝卡说——“看看我的弟弟皮特；看看哈德尔斯顿家族，他们自亨利二世以来就一直在这里；看看牧师住宅里可怜的布特——他们中有人在智力或教养上与你平等吗？和你一样——他们甚至比不上我的同伴可怜的布里格斯，或者我的管家鲍尔斯。你，我的爱人，是一个小典范——确实是一颗小宝石——你的头脑比半个郡还多——如果你有功绩，你应该成为公爵夫人——不，根本不应该有公爵夫人——但你应该我认为你，我的爱人，在各方面都与我平等；还有——亲爱的，你能在火上放一些木炭吗？你愿意挑选我的这件衣服，并改变它吗？你能做得这么好吗？”因此，这位老慈善家过去常常让她平等地跑腿，为她做女帽，每天给她读法国小说入睡。夜晚。

At this time, as some old readers may recollect, the genteel world had been thrown into a considerable state of excitement by two events, which, as the papers say, might give employment to the gentlemen of the long robe. Ensign Shafton had run away with Lady Barbara Fitzurse, the Earl of Bruin’s daughter and heiress; and poor Vere Vane, a gentleman who, up to forty, had maintained a most respectable character and reared a numerous family, suddenly and outrageously left his home, for the sake of Mrs. Rougemont, the actress, who was sixty-five years of age.
一些老读者可能还记得，此时，上流社会因两件事而陷入相当兴奋的状态，正如报纸上所说，这可能会给长袍绅士们带来就业机会。沙夫顿少尉与布鲁因伯爵的女儿兼女继承人芭芭拉·菲茨尔斯女士私奔了。可怜的维尔·韦恩，一位四十多岁的绅士，一直保持着最受人尊敬的品格，养育了众多的家庭，突然而无耻地离开了自己的家，为了女演员鲁日蒙夫人，她已经六十五岁了。年龄。

‘That was the most beautiful part of dear Lord Nelson’s character,’ Miss Crawley said. ‘He went to the deuce for a woman. There must be good in a man who will do that. I adore all impudent matches.— What I like best, is for a nobleman to marry a miller’s daughter, as Lord Flowerdale did—it makes all the women so angry—I wish some great man would run away with you, my dear; I’m sure you’re pretty enough.’
“这是亲爱的纳尔逊勋爵性格中最美丽的部分，”克劳利小姐说。 “他为了一个女人而拼了命。”愿意这样做的人一定是有善良的。我喜欢所有无礼的婚姻。——我最喜欢的是一个贵族娶了一个磨坊主的女儿，就像弗劳代尔勋爵那样——这让所有的女人都很生气——我希望有一个伟大的男人能和你私奔，亲爱的；我确信你足够漂亮。

‘Two post-boys!—Oh, it would be delightful!’ Rebecca owned.
“两个邮递员！——噢，那真是太好了！”丽贝卡承认道。

‘And what I like next best, is for a poor fellow to run away with a rich girl. I have set my heart on Rawdon running away with some one.’
“其次，我最喜欢的是一个穷小子带着一个有钱的女孩私奔。我一心想让罗登和某人私奔。

‘A rich some one, or a poor some one?’
“某人是富人，还是某人是穷人？”

‘Why, you goose! Rawdon has not a shilling but what I give him. He is crible de dettes—he must repair his fortunes, and succeed in the world.’
‘为什么，你这只鹅！罗登没有一先令，只有我给他的钱。他是个脆弱的人——他必须修复自己的命运，并在世界上取得成功。

‘Is he very clever?’ Rebecca asked.
“他很聪明吗？”丽贝卡问。

‘Clever, my love?—not an idea in the world beyond his horses, and his regiment, and his hunting, and his play; but he must succeed— he’s so delightfully wicked. Don’t you know he has hit a man, and shot an injured father through the hat only? He’s adored in his regiment; and all the young men at Wattier’s and the Cocoa-Tree swear by him.’
“聪明，我的爱人？——除了他的马、他的军团、他的狩猎和他的玩耍之外，没有一个想法；”但他必须成功——他真是太邪恶了。难道你不知道他打了一个人，还透过帽子射杀了一个受伤的父亲吗？他在团里很受人爱戴；瓦蒂尔店和可可树店的所有年轻人都向他发誓。

When Miss Rebecca Sharp wrote to her beloved friend the account of the little ball at Queen’s Crawley, and the manner in which, for the first time, Captain Crawley had distinguished her, she did not, strange to relate, give an altogether accurate account of the transaction. The Captain had distinguished her a great number of times before. The Captain had met her in a half-score of walks. The Captain had lighted upon her in a half-hundred of corridors and passages. The Captain had hung over her piano twenty times of an evening (my Lady was now upstairs, being ill, and nobody heeded her) as Miss Sharp sang. The Captain had written her notes (the best that the great blundering dragoon could devise and spell; but dulness gets on as well as any other quality with women). But when he put the first of the notes into the leaves of the song she was singing, the little governess, rising and looking him steadily in the face, took up the triangular missive daintily, and waved it about as if it were a cocked hat, and she, advancing to the enemy, popped the note into the fire, and made him a very low curtsey, and went back to her place, and began to sing away again more merrily than ever.
当丽贝卡·夏普小姐写信给她心爱的朋友，讲述女王克劳利的小舞会的情况，以及克劳利船长第一次区分她的方式时，奇怪的是，她并没有完全准确地描述交易。船长以前曾多次对她表示赞赏。走了半程，船长就遇见了她。船长在半百个走廊和过道中都照亮了她。当夏普小姐唱歌时，船长一个晚上在她的钢琴上挂了二十次（我的夫人现在在楼上，生病了，没有人理会她）。船长已经写下了她的笔记（这位伟大的笨手笨脚的龙骑兵能够设计和拼写出的最好的笔记；但是迟钝和任何其他品质一样与女人相处）。但当他把第一个音符放入她所唱歌曲的叶子时，小家庭女教师站起来，坚定地看着他的脸，优雅地拿起那封三角形的信，像一顶三角帽一样挥舞着。她走向敌人，把音符扔进火里，向他行了一个非常低的屈膝礼，然后回到自己的位置，又开始比以前更加快乐地唱歌。

‘What’s that?’ said Miss Crawley, interrupted in her after-dinner doze by the stoppage of the music.
“那是什么？”克劳利小姐问道，音乐的停止打断了她餐后的瞌睡。

‘It’s a false note,’ Miss Sharp said with a laugh; and Rawdon Crawley fumed with rage and mortification.
“这是一张假字条，”夏普小姐笑着说。罗登·克劳利愤怒又羞愧。

Seeing the evident partiality of Miss Crawley for the new governess, how good it was of Mrs. Bute Crawley not to be jealous, and to welcome the young lady to the Rectory, and not only her, but Rawdon Crawley, her husband’s rival in the Old Maid’s five per cents! They became very fond of each other’s society, Mrs. Crawley and her nephew. He gave up hunting; he declined entertainments at Fuddleston: he would not dine with the mess of the depot at Mudbury: his great pleasure was to stroll over to Crawley parsonage—whither Miss Crawley came too; and as their mamma was ill, why not the children with Miss Sharp? So the children (little dears!) came with Miss Sharp; and of an evening some of the party would walk back together. Not Miss Crawley—she preferred her carriage—but the walk over the Rectory fields, and in at the little park wicket, and through the dark plantation, and up the checkered avenue to Queen’s Crawley, was charming in the moonlight to two such lovers of the picturesque as the Captain and Miss Rebecca.
看到克劳利小姐对新家庭女教师的明显偏爱，布特·克劳利夫人不嫉妒，并欢迎这位年轻的女士来到教区长官邸，不仅是她，还有她丈夫在家庭中的竞争对手罗登·克劳利，这是多么好的一件事。老处女的百分之五！克劳利夫人和她的侄子他们变得非常喜欢彼此的交往。他放弃了狩猎；他拒绝了富德尔斯顿的招待：他不愿意在马德伯里的混乱的车站里吃饭：他最大的乐趣就是漫步到克劳利牧师住宅——克劳利小姐也去了那里；既然他们的妈妈病了，为什么夏普小姐的孩子们不能呢？于是孩子们（小可爱们！）就和夏普小姐一起来了。有一天晚上，一些人会一起走回去。不是克劳利小姐——她更喜欢她的马车——而是在教区长田野上散步，在小公园检票口，穿过黑暗的种植园，沿着方格大道到达皇后克劳利，在月光下对两个这样的恋人来说是迷人的。船长和丽贝卡小姐如诗如画。

‘O those stars, those stars!’ Miss Rebecca would say, turning her twinkling green eyes up towards them. ‘I feel myself almost a spirit when I gaze upon them.’
“哦，那些星星，那些星星！”丽贝卡小姐会一边说，一边用她闪烁的绿眼睛看着它们。 “当我凝视他们时，我感觉自己几乎是一个灵魂。”

‘O—ah—Gad—yes, so do I exactly, Miss Sharp,’ the other enthusiast replied. ‘You don’t mind my cigar, do you, Miss Sharp?’ Miss Sharp loved the smell of a cigar out of doors beyond everything in the world—and she just tasted one too, in the prettiest way possible, and gave a little puff, and a little scream, and a little giggle, and restored the delicacy to the Captain, who twirled his moustache, and straightway puffed it into a blaze that glowed quite red in the dark plantation, and swore—‘Jove—aw—Gad—aw—it’s the finest segaw I ever smoked in the world aw,’ for his intellect and conversation were alike brilliant and becoming to a heavy young dragoon.
“哦——啊——加德——是的，我也是，夏普小姐，”另一位热心者回答道。 “你不介意我的雪茄吧，夏普小姐？”夏普小姐对户外雪茄的味道的喜爱胜过世界上的一切——她也只是以最美妙的方式尝了一支，然后给了一点点。噗噗，一声尖叫，一阵咯咯笑，船长又恢复了美味，他捻弄着小胡子，立刻把它吹成一团火焰，在黑暗的种植园里发出红光，并发誓——“天哪——啊——加德” ——噢——这是我在世界上抽过的最好的塞格乌，噢，”因为他的才智和谈话都非常出色，适合一个沉重的年轻龙骑兵。

Old Sir Pitt, who was taking his pipe and beer, and talking to John Horrocks about a ‘ship’ that was to be killed, espied the pair so occupied from his study-window, and with dreadful oaths swore that if it wasn’t for Miss Crawley, he’d take Rawdon and bundle un out of doors, like a rogue as he was.
老皮特爵士正拿着烟斗和啤酒，和约翰·霍洛克斯谈论一艘即将被杀死的“船”，他从书房的窗户里看到这两个人正忙着，他咒骂着，如果不是的话对于克劳利小姐，他会把罗登带出家门，就像个无赖一样。

‘He be a bad’n, sure enough,’ Mr. Horrocks remarked; ‘and his man Flethers is wuss, and have made such a row in the housekeeper’s room about the dinners and hale, as no lord would make—but I think Miss Sharp’s a match for’n, Sir Pitt,’ he added, after a pause.
“他确实是个坏人，”霍罗克斯先生说。 “他的男人弗莱瑟斯很胆小，在管家的房间里为晚餐和啤酒大吵大闹，没有哪个贵族会这么做——但我认为夏普小姐很配，皮特爵士，”他补充道，暂停。

And so, in truth, she was—for father and son too.
事实上，对于父亲和儿子来说，她也是如此。

Chapter XII
第十二章


Quite a Sentimental Chapter
很感人的一章

We must now take leave of Arcadia, and those amiable people practising the rural virtues there, and travel back to London, to inquire what has become of Miss Amelia ‘We don’t care a fig for her,’ writes some unknown correspondent with a pretty little handwriting and a pink seal to her note. ‘She is fade and insipid,’ and adds some more kind remarks in this strain, which I should never have repeated at all, but that they are in truth prodigiously complimentary to the young lady whom they concern.
我们现在必须告别阿卡迪亚和那些在那里践行乡村美德的和蔼可亲的人们，返回伦敦，询问阿米莉亚小姐的情况。“我们对她一点也不关心，”一位不知名的记者写道。她的字迹很漂亮，上面还盖着粉红色的印章。 “她是苍白无味的，”并在这语气中添加了一些更友善的评论，我根本不应该重复这些话，但它们实际上是对他们所关心的年轻女士的极大赞美。

Has the beloved reader, in his experience of society, never heard similar remarks by good-natured female friends; who always wonder what you CAN see in Miss Smith that is so fascinating; or what COULD induce Major Jones to propose for that silly insignificant simpering Miss Thompson, who has nothing but her wax-doll face to recommend her? What is there in a pair of pink cheeks and blue eyes forsooth? these dear Moralists ask, and hint wisely that the gifts of genius, the accomplishments of the mind, the mastery of Mangnall’s Questions, and a ladylike knowledge of botany and geology, the knack of making poetry, the power of rattling sonatas in the Herz-manner, and so forth, are far more valuable endowments for a female, than those fugitive charms which a few years will inevitably tarnish. It is quite edifying to hear women speculate upon the worthlessness and the duration of beauty.
亲爱的读者，在他的社会经历中，是否从未听过善良女性朋友的类似言论？他们总是想知道你能在史密斯小姐身上看到什么如此迷人的地方；或者什么可以促使琼斯少校向那个傻笑的汤普森小姐求婚，而汤普森小姐除了她的蜡娃娃脸之外什么也没有推荐她？一双粉红色的脸颊和蓝色的眼睛到底是什么？这些亲爱的道德主义者明智地询问并暗示，天才的天赋、思想的成就、曼格纳尔问题的掌握、植物学和地质学的淑女知识、创作诗歌的技巧、赫兹奏鸣曲的力量——对于女性来说，举止等方面的天赋远比那些几年后必然会失去光泽的转瞬即逝的魅力更有价值。听到女人思考美丽的无价值和持续时间是非常有启发性的。

But though virtue is a much finer thing, and those hapless creatures who suffer under the misfortune of good looks ought to be continually put in mind of the fate which awaits them; and though, very likely, the heroic female character which ladies admire is a more glorious and beautiful object than the kind, fresh, smiling, artless, tender little domestic goddess, whom men are inclined to worship—yet the latter and inferior sort of women must have this consolation—that the men do admire them after all; and that, in spite of all our kind friends’ warnings and protests, we go on in our desperate error and folly, and shall to the end of the chapter. Indeed, for my own part, though I have been repeatedly told by persons for whom I have the greatest respect, that Miss Brown is an insignificant chit, and Mrs. White has nothing but her petit minois chiffonne, and Mrs. Black has not a word to say for herself; yet I know that I have had the most delightful conversations with Mrs. Black (of course, my dear Madam, they are inviolable): I see all the men in a cluster round Mrs. White’s chair: all the young fellows battling to dance with Miss Brown; and so I am tempted to think that to be despised by her sex is a very great compliment to a woman.
然而，尽管美德是一件美好得多的事情，但那些因美貌而遭受不幸的不幸的人，应该不断地牢记等待着他们的命运；尽管女士们所崇拜的英雄女性形象，比男性所崇拜的善良、清新、微笑、天真、温柔的小家庭女神更光荣、美丽，但后者是低等的女性。必须有这样的安慰——男人们毕竟钦佩他们；尽管我们所有仁慈的朋友都提出警告和抗议，我们仍然继续犯下我们绝望的错误和愚蠢，直到本章结束。确实，就我个人而言，尽管我最尊敬的人一再告诉我，布朗小姐是个无足轻重的女人，怀特夫人除了她的小米诺雪纺纱外一无所有，而布莱克夫人也没有什么。为自己说的话；但我知道我和布莱克夫人进行了最愉快的谈话（当然，我亲爱的女士，他们是不可侵犯的）：我看到所有的男人都围在怀特夫人的椅子周围：所有的年轻人都在争先恐后地跳舞布朗小姐；所以我很想认为，被自己的性别所鄙视对一个女人来说是一种极大的赞美。

The young ladies in Amelia’s society did this for her very satisfactorily. For instance, there was scarcely any point upon which the Misses Osborne, George’s sisters, and the Mesdemoiselles Dobbin agreed so well as in their estimate of her very trifling merits: and their wonder that their brothers could find any charms in her. ‘We are kind to her,’ the Misses Osborne said, a pair of fine black-browed young ladies who had had the best of governesses, masters, and milliners; and they treated her with such extreme kindness and condescension, and patronised her so insufferably, that the poor little thing was in fact perfectly dumb in their presence, and to all outward appearance as stupid as they thought her. She made efforts to like them, as in duty bound, and as sisters of her future husband. She passed ‘long mornings’ with them—the most dreary and serious of forenoons. She drove out solemnly in their great family coach with them, and Miss Wirt their governess, that raw-boned Vestal. They took her to the ancient concerts by way of a treat, and to the oratorio, and to St. Paul’s to see the charity children, where in such terror was she of her friends, she almost did not dare be affected by the hymn the children sang. Their house was comfortable; their papa’s table rich and handsome; their society solemn and genteel; their self-respect prodigious; they had the best pew at the Foundling: all their habits were pompous and orderly, and all their amusements intolerably dull and decorous. After every one of her visits (and oh how glad she was when they were over!) Miss Osborne and Miss Maria Osborne, and Miss Wirt, the vestal governess, asked each other with increased wonder, ‘What could George find in that creature?’
阿米莉亚社交圈里的年轻女士们为她做了这件事，非常令人满意。例如，奥斯本小姐、乔治的姐妹们和杜宾夫人对她微不足道的优点的评价几乎没有任何一点是一致的：他们对他们的兄弟能在她身上发现任何魅力感到惊讶。 “我们对她很好，”奥斯本小姐说，她们是一对漂亮的黑眉毛的年轻女士，她们拥有最好的家庭教师、主人和女帽师。他们对待她是如此的友善和居高临下，对她的恩待是如此令人难以忍受，以至于这个可怜的小东西在他们面前实际上完全是哑巴，从表面上看就像他们认为的那样愚蠢。她努力喜欢她们，因为这是义务，也是她未来丈夫的姐妹。她和他们一起度过了“漫长的早晨”——最沉闷、最严肃的上午。她庄严地开着他们伟大的家庭马车和他们一起出去，还有他们的家庭教师沃特小姐，那个骨瘦如柴的维斯塔。他们带她去听古老的音乐会，带她去看清唱剧，去圣保罗教堂看慈善机构的孩子们，她对她的朋友们如此恐惧，她几乎不敢被赞美诗所影响。孩子们唱歌。他们的房子很舒适；他们爸爸的餐桌又富又帅；他们的社交庄严而文雅；他们的自尊心很强；他们在育婴堂里拥有最好的座位：他们所有的习惯都是浮夸而有序的，他们所有的娱乐活动都令人难以忍受的沉闷和高雅。每次她来访之后（哦，当他们结束时，她是多么高兴啊！）奥斯本小姐和玛丽亚·奥斯本小姐，以及维斯塔家庭女教师沃特小姐，都更加好奇地互相问：“乔治能在那个生物身上发现什么？” '

How is this? some carping reader exclaims. How is it that Amelia, who had such a number of friends at school, and was so beloved there, comes out into the world and is spurned by her discriminating sex? My dear sir, there were no men at Miss Pinkerton’s establishment except the old dancing-master; and you would not have had the girls fall out about HIM? When George, their handsome brother, ran off directly after breakfast, and dined from home halfa-dozen times a week, no wonder the neglected sisters felt a little vexation. When young Bullock (of the firm of Hulker, Bullock & Co., Bankers, Lombard Street), who had been making up to Miss Maria the last two seasons, actually asked Amelia to dance the cotillon, could you expect that the former young lady should be pleased? And yet she said she was, like an artless forgiving creature. ‘I’m so delighted you like dear Amelia,’ she said quite eagerly to Mr. Bullock after the dance. ‘She’s engaged to my brother George; there’s not much in her, but she’s the best-natured and most unaffected young creature: at home we’re all so fond of her.’ Dear girl! who can calculate the depth of affection expressed in that enthusiastic SO?
这怎么样？一些吹毛求疵的读者惊呼道。阿米莉亚在学校里有那么多朋友，在学校里很受人爱戴，为什么来到这个世界上却被性别歧视所唾弃呢？亲爱的先生，除了老舞蹈老师之外，平克顿小姐的舞厅里没有其他人。你不会让女孩们因为他而闹翻吗？当她们英俊的哥哥乔治吃完早饭就跑掉，每周在家吃六次饭时，难怪被忽视的姐妹们会感到有点烦恼。当年轻的布洛克（Hulker, Bullock & Co., Bankers, Lombard Street）在过去的两季中一直在给玛丽亚小姐化妆时，实际上邀请阿米莉亚跳舞，你能指望这位前年轻女士应该高兴吗？但她说她就像一个天真、宽容的生物。 “我很高兴你像亲爱的阿米莉亚一样，”舞会结束后她非常热切地对布洛克先生说。 “她和我哥哥乔治订婚了；她身上没有太多的东西，但她是一个脾气最好、最不受影响的年轻人：在家里我们都很喜欢她。’亲爱的女孩！谁能计算出那份热情的SO所表达的感情有多深？

Miss Wirt and these two affectionate young women so earnestly and frequently impressed upon George Osborne’s mind the enormity of the sacrifice he was making, and his romantic generosity in throwing himself away upon Amelia, that I’m not sure but that he really thought he was one of the most deserving characters in the British army, and gave himself up to be loved with a good deal of easy resignation.
沃特小姐和这两位深情的年轻女子如此真诚地频繁地让乔治·奥斯本铭记在心，他所做出的巨大牺牲，以及他为爱米莉亚而倾心投入的浪漫慷慨，我不确定，但他确实认为自己是英国军队中最值得尊敬的人物之一，为了得到爱而放弃了自己，并轻松地放弃了自己。

Somehow, although he left home every morning, as was stated, and dined abroad six days in the week, when his sisters believed the infatuated youth to be at Miss Sedley’s apron-strings: he was NOT always with Amelia, whilst the world supposed him at her feet. Certain it is that on more occasions than one, when Captain Dobbin called to look for his friend, Miss Osborne (who was very attentive to the Captain, and anxious to hear his military stories, and to know about the health of his dear Mamma), would laughingly point to the opposite side of the square, and say, ‘Oh, you must go to the Sedleys’ to ask for George; WE never see him from morning till night.’ At which kind of speech the Captain would laugh in rather an absurd constrained manner, and turn off the conversation, like a consummate man of the world, to some topic of general interest, such as the Opera, the Prince’s last ball at Carlton House, or the weather—that blessing to society.
不知何故，尽管他每天早上离开家，正如所说的那样，一周中有六天在国外用餐，但他的姐妹们相信这个痴情的年轻人正在塞德利小姐的围裙上：他并不总是和阿米莉亚在一起，而世界却认为他是这样的。在她的脚下。可以肯定的是，不止一次，当多宾上尉打电话寻找他的朋友奥斯本小姐时（她对上尉非常关心，渴望听到他的军事故事，并了解他亲爱的妈妈的健康状况） ，会笑着指着广场的另一边说：“哦，你必须去塞德利家找乔治；”我们从早到晚都见不到他。”听到这样的讲话，船长会以一种相当荒唐、拘束的方式笑起来，然后像一个圆滑的人那样结束谈话，转向一些普遍感兴趣的话题，比如歌剧、王子在卡尔顿宫举行的最后一场舞会，或者天气——对社会的祝福。

‘What an innocent it is, that pet of yours,’ Miss Maria would then say to Miss Jane, upon the Captain’s departure. ‘Did you see how he blushed at the mention of poor George on duty?’
“你的宠物真是天真啊，”船长离开后，玛丽亚小姐会对简小姐说。 “你看到他一提到值班的可怜的乔治就脸红吗？”

‘It’s a pity Frederick Bullock hadn’t some of his modesty, Maria,’ replies the elder sister, with a toss of he head.
“可惜弗雷德里克·布洛克没有他的谦逊，玛丽亚，”姐姐摇摇头回答道。

‘Modesty! Awkwardness you mean, Jane. I don’t want Frederick to trample a hole in my muslin frock, as Captain Dobbin did in yours at Mrs. Perkins’.’
'谦虚！你的意思是尴尬，简。我不想让弗雷德里克在我的平纹细布连衣裙上踩出一个洞，就像多宾船长在帕金斯夫人家在你的连衣裙上踩出一个洞一样。

‘In YOUR frock, he, he! How could he? Wasn’t he dancing with Amelia?’
‘穿着你的连衣裙，他，他！他怎么可以？他不是在和阿米莉亚跳舞吗？

The fact is, when Captain Dobbin blushed so, and looked so awkward, he remembered a circumstance of which he did not think it was necessary to inform the young ladies, viz., that he had been calling at Mr. Sedley’s house already, on the pretence of seeing George, of course, and George wasn’t there, only poor little Amelia, with rather a sad wistful face, seated near the drawing-room window, who, after some very trifling stupid talk, ventured to ask, was there any truth in the report that the regiment was soon to be ordered abroad; and had Captain Dobbin seen Mr. Osborne that day?
事实上，当多宾船长脸红得如此厉害，看上去如此尴尬时，他想起了一件他认为没有必要通知年轻女士们的情况，即他已经在塞德利先生家拜访了，当然，假装见到乔治，而乔治并不在那里，只有可怜的小阿米莉亚，带着悲伤而渴望的脸，坐在客厅窗户附近，在说了一些非常琐碎的愚蠢谈话后，她大胆地问，她在哪里？报道称该团很快将被派往国外，这是否属实？那天多宾船长见过奥斯本先生吗？

The regiment was not ordered abroad as yet; and Captain Dobbin had not seen George. ‘He was with his sister, most likely,’ the Captain said. ‘Should he go and fetch the truant?’ So she gave him her hand kindly and gratefully: and he crossed the square; and she waited and waited, but George never came.
该团尚未在国外订购；多宾船长没有看到乔治。 “他很可能和他妹妹在一起，”船长说。 “他应该去把那个逃学的人带回来吗？”于是她亲切而感激地向他伸出了手：他穿过了广场。她等了又等，但乔治始终没有来。

Poor little tender heart! and so it goes on hoping and beating, and longing and trusting. You see it is not much of a life to describe. There is not much of what you call incident in it. Only one feeling all day—when will he come? only one thought to sleep and wake upon. I believe George was playing billiards with Captain Cannon in Swallow Street at the time when Amelia was asking Captain Dobbin about him; for George was a jolly sociable fellow, and excellent in all games of skill.
可怜的小温柔心啊！就这样，它不断地希望和殴打、渴望和信任。你看，这并不是一种可以描述的生活。里面并没有太多你所说的事件。一整天只有一个感觉——他什么时候来？只有一个想法可以入睡和醒来。我相信当阿米莉亚向多宾船长询问他的情况时，乔治正在燕子街与坎农船长打台球；因为乔治是一个快乐的善于交际的人，并且在所有比赛中都表现出色。

Once, after three days of absence, Miss Amelia put on her bonnet, and actually invaded the Osborne house. ‘What! leave our brother to come to us?’ said the young ladies. ‘Have you had a quarrel, Amelia? Do tell us!’ No, indeed, there had been no quarrel. ‘Who could quarrel with him?’ says she, with her eyes filled with tears. She only came over to—to see her dear friends; they had not met for so long. And this day she was so perfectly stupid and awkward, that the Misses Osborne and their governess, who stared after her as she went sadly away, wondered more than ever what George could see in poor little Amelia.
有一次，离开三天后，阿米莉亚小姐戴上帽子，居然闯入了奥斯本的房子。 '什么！让我们的兄弟来找我们吗？”年轻女士们问道。 “你们吵架了吗，阿米莉亚？请告诉我们！”不，确实，没有发生争吵。 “谁能跟他吵架呢？”她眼里充满泪水说道。她只是过来——看看她亲爱的朋友们；他们已经很久没有见面了。这一天，她显得如此愚蠢和尴尬，以至于奥斯本小姐和他们的家庭女教师在她悲伤地离开时盯着她，比以往任何时候都更想知道乔治在可怜的小阿米莉亚身上看到了什么。

Of course they did. How was she to bare that timid little heart for the inspection of those young ladies with their bold black eyes? It was best that it should shrink and hide itself. I know the Misses Osborne were excellent critics of a Cashmere shawl, or a pink satin slip; and when Miss Turner had hers dyed purple, and made into a spencer; and when Miss Pickford had her ermine tippet twisted into a muff and trimmings, I warrant you the changes did not escape the two intelligent young women before mentioned. But there are things, look you, of a finer texture than fur or satin, and all Solomon’s glories, and all the wardrobe of the Queen of Sheba—things whereof the beauty escapes the eyes of many connoisseurs. And there are sweet modest little souls on which you light, fragrant and blooming tenderly in quiet shady places; and there are garden-ornaments, as big as brass warming-pans, that are fit to stare the sun itself out of countenance. Miss Sedley was not of the sunflower sort; and I say it is out of the rules of all proportion to draw a violet of the size of a double dahlia.
他们当然做到了。她怎么能露出那颗胆怯的小心，去接受那些黑眸大胆的小姐的审视呢？最好是缩小并隐藏自己。我知道奥斯本小姐对羊绒披肩或粉红色缎面衬裙非常挑剔；当特纳小姐把她的衣服染成紫色并制成斯宾塞时；当皮克福德小姐把她的貂皮披肩扭成手筒和饰物时，我向你保证，这些变化并没有逃过前面提到的两位聪明的年轻女子的眼睛。但是，你看，有些东西的质地比毛皮或缎子更精细，所罗门的所有荣耀，以及示巴女王的所有衣柜——许多鉴赏家都看不到它们的美丽。还有可爱谦虚的小灵魂，你在它们身上点燃，芬芳，在安静的阴凉处温柔地绽放；还有一些花园装饰品，有黄铜暖锅那么大，适合凝视太阳本身。塞德利小姐不是向日葵那样的人。我说画双大丽花大小的紫罗兰是不符合比例规则的。

No, indeed; the life of a good young girl who is in the paternal nest as yet, can’t have many of those thrilling incidents to which the heroine of romance commonly lays claim. Snares or shot may take off the old birds foraging without—hawks may be abroad, from which they escape or by whom they suffer; but the young ones in the nest have a pretty comfortable unromantic sort of existence in the down and the straw, till it comes to their turn, too, to get on the wing. While Becky Sharp was on her own wing in the country, hopping on all sorts of twigs, and amid a multiplicity of traps, and pecking up her food quite harmless and successful, Amelia lay snug in her home of Russell Square; if she went into the world, it was under the guidance of the elders; nor did it seem that any evil could befall her or that opulent cheery comfortable home in which she was affectionately sheltered. Mamma had her morning duties, and her daily drive, and the delightful round of visits and shopping which forms the amusement, or the profession as you may call it, of the rich London lady. Papa conducted his mysterious operations in the City—a stirring place in those days, when war was raging all over Europe, and empires were being staked; when the ‘Courier’ newspaper had tens of thousands of subscribers; when one day brought you a battle of Vittoria, another a burning of Moscow, or a newsman’s horn blowing down Russell Square about dinner-time, announced such a fact as—‘Battle of Leipsic—six hundred thousand men engaged—total defeat of the French—two hundred thousand killed.’ Old Sedley once or twice came home with a very grave face; and no wonder, when such news as this was agitating all the hearts and all the Stocks of Europe.
不，确实如此；一个尚未入娘巢的乖乖女的生活，不可能有很多爱情故事中女主人公所声称的惊心动魄的事件。圈套或射击可能会杀死在外面觅食的老鸟——鹰可能在国外，它们逃离那里，或者受到它们的折磨；但巢中的幼鸟在绒毛和稻草上过着相当舒适、不浪漫的生活，直到轮到它们飞上翅膀为止。当贝基·夏普（Becky Sharp）在乡下独自生活时，她在各种树枝上跳跃，在重重陷阱中跳跃，并无害且成功地啄食她的食物，而阿米莉亚（Amelia）则舒适地躺在罗素广场（Russell Square）的家中。如果她走向世界，也是在长辈的指导下；似乎也没有任何邪恶会降临在她身上，也不会降临在她受到亲切庇护的那个华丽、愉快、舒适的家中。妈妈早上有工作，每天开车，还有愉快的参观和购物，这些构成了这位伦敦富有女士的娱乐，或者你可以称之为职业。爸爸在这座城市进行了他的神秘行动——当时，战争在整个欧洲肆虐，帝国岌岌可危，这是一个激动人心的地方；当《信使》报纸拥有数万名订阅者时；当有一天给你带来一场维多利亚之战，另一天给你带来莫斯科的燃烧，或者晚饭时间新闻记者的号角吹过罗素广场时，你宣布了这样一个事实——“莱比西克之战——六十万人交战——彻底失败”法国人——二十万人被杀。”老塞德利有一两次回到家时，脸上的表情非常严肃。难怪这样的消息激动了欧洲所有的心和所有的股票。

Meanwhile matters went on in Russell Square, Bloomsbury, just as if matters in Europe were not in the least disorganised. The retreat from Leipsic made no difference in the number of meals Mr. Sambo took in the servants’ hall; the allies poured into France, and the dinner-bell rang at five o’clock just as usual. I don’t think poor Amelia cared anything about Brienne and Montmirail, or was fairly interested in the war until the abdication of the Emperor; when she clapped her hands and said prayers—oh, how grateful! and flung herself into George Osborne’s arms with all her soul, to the astonishment of everybody who witnessed that ebullition of sentiment. The fact is, peace was declared, Europe was going to be at rest; the Corsican was overthrown, and Lieutenant Osborne’s regiment would not be ordered on service. That was the way in which Miss Amelia reasoned. The fate of Europe was Lieutenant George Osborne to her. His dangers being over, she sang Te Deum. He was her Europe: her emperor: her allied monarchs and august prince regent. He was her sun and moon; and I believe she thought the grand illumination and ball at the Mansion House, given to the sovereigns, were especially in honour of George Osborne.
与此同时，布卢姆斯伯里的罗素广场上的事态仍在继续，就好像欧洲的事态丝毫没有混乱一样。从莱比西克撤退并没有影响桑博先生在仆人大厅里吃饭的次数。盟军涌入法国，晚餐钟声像往常一样在五点钟响起。我不认为可怜的阿米莉亚关心布蕾妮和蒙米拉伊，或者对战争相当感兴趣，直到皇帝退位；当她拍手祈祷时——哦，多么感激啊！她全身心投入乔治·奥斯本的怀抱，令所有目睹这种情绪沸腾的人都感到惊讶。事实是，和平宣告了，欧洲就将安息；科西嘉号被推翻，奥斯本中尉的军团将不会被命令服役。阿米莉亚小姐就是这么推理的。欧洲的命运对她而言就是乔治·奥斯本中尉。他的危险已经过去，她唱起了赞美诗。他是她的欧洲：她的皇帝：她的盟友君主和威严的摄政王。他是她的太阳和月亮；我相信她认为为君主举办的官邸盛大的灯光和舞会是特别为了纪念乔治·奥斯本。

We have talked of shift, self, and poverty, as those dismal instructors under whom poor Miss Becky Sharp got her education. Now, love was Miss Amelia Sedley’s last tutoress, and it was amazing what progress our young lady made under that popular teacher. In the course of fifteen or eighteen months’ daily and constant attention to this eminent finishing governess, what a deal of secrets Amelia learned, which Miss Wirt and the black-eyed young ladies over the way, which old Miss Pinkerton of Chiswick herself, had no cognizance of! As, indeed, how should any of those prim and reputable virgins? With Misses P. and W. the tender passion is out of the question: I would not dare to breathe such an idea regarding them. Miss Maria Osborne, it is true, was ‘attached’ to Mr. Frederick Augustus Bullock, of the firm of Hulker, Bullock & Bullock; but hers was a most respectable attachment, and she would have taken Bullock Senior just the same, her mind being fixed—as that of a well-bred young woman should be—upon a house in Park Lane, a country house at Wimbledon, a handsome chariot, and two prodigious tall horses and footmen, and a fourth of the annual profits of the eminent firm of Hulker & Bullock, all of which advantages were represented in the person of Frederick Augustus. Had orange blossoms been invented then (those touching emblems of female purity imported by us from France, where people’s daughters are universally sold in marriage), Miss Maria, I say, would have assumed the spotless wreath, and stepped into the travelling carriage by the side of gouty, old, bald-headed, bottle-nosed Bullock Senior; and devoted her beautiful existence to his happiness with perfect modesty—only the old gentleman was married already; so she bestowed her young affections on the junior partner. Sweet, blooming, orange flowers! The other day I saw Miss Trotter (that was), arrayed in them, trip into the travelling carriage at St. George’s, Hanover Square, and Lord Methuselah hobbled in after. With what an engaging modesty she pulled down the blinds of the chariot—the dear innocent! There were half the carriages of Vanity Fair at the wedding.
我们谈论过转变、自我和贫困，就像可怜的贝基·夏普小姐在那些令人沮丧的老师的指导下接受教育一样。现在，爱是阿米莉亚·塞德利小姐的最后一位导师，我们的年轻女士在这位受欢迎的老师的指导下取得了令人惊讶的进步。在十五或十八个月的日常和持续关注这位杰出的家庭女教师的过程中，阿米莉亚了解到了多少秘密，这些秘密是沃特小姐和沿途的黑眼睛年轻女士们，以及奇西克的老平克顿小姐自己所知道的。没有认识到！事实上，那些拘谨而有名望的处女应该怎样做呢？对于 P. 和 W. 小姐来说，温柔的热情是不可能的：我不敢对她们抱有这样的想法。确实，玛丽亚·奥斯本小姐与浩克、布洛克和布洛克公司的弗雷德里克·奥古斯都·布洛克先生有“联系”。但她的依恋是最值得尊敬的，她也会照样选择​​老布洛克，她的心思集中在——就像一个有教养的年轻女子应该做的那样——在公园巷的一栋房子，温布尔登的一栋乡间别墅，漂亮的战车，两匹高大的马和步兵，以及著名的浩克和布洛克公司的四分之一的年利润，所有这些优势都体现在弗雷德里克·奥古斯都身上。如果当时发明了橙花（这些动人的女性纯洁的象征，是我们从法国引进的，那里人们普遍把女儿卖去嫁人），我说，玛丽亚小姐一定会戴上一尘不染的花环，踏上由法国人准备的旅行马车。患有痛风、秃头、宽鼻的老布洛克的侧面；她以完美的谦逊把自己美丽的存在奉献给了他的幸福——只有老先生已经结婚了；于是，她把自己年轻的感情，寄托在了小伙伴身上。 甜甜的、盛开的橙色花朵！有一天，我看到特罗特小姐（就是这样）穿着它们，在汉诺威广场的圣乔治教堂乘坐马车，玛土撒拉勋爵在后面一瘸一拐地走了进来。她以多么迷人的谦逊拉下战车的百叶窗——亲爱的无辜者！婚礼上有《名利场》一半的马车。

This was not the sort of love that finished Amelia’s education; and in the course of a year turned a good young girl into a good young woman—to be a good wife presently, when the happy time should come. This young person (perhaps it was very imprudent in her parents to encourage her, and abet her in such idolatry and silly romantic ideas) loved, with all her heart, the young officer in His Majesty’s service with whom we have made a brief acquaintance. She thought about him the very first moment on waking; and his was the very last name mentioned m her prayers. She never had seen a man so beautiful or so clever: such a figure on horseback: such a dancer: such a hero in general. Talk of the Prince’s bow! what was it to George’s? She had seen Mr. Brummell, whom everybody praised so. Compare such a person as that to her George! Not amongst all the beaux at the Opera (and there were beaux in those days with actual opera hats) was there any one to equal him. He was only good enough to be a fairy prince; and oh, what magnanimity to stoop to such a humble Cinderella! Miss Pinkerton would have tried to check this blind devotion very likely, had she been Amelia’s confidante; but not with much success, depend upon it. It is in the nature and instinct of some women. Some are made to scheme, and some to love; and I wish any respected bachelor that reads this may take the sort that best likes him.
这不是完成阿米莉亚教育的那种爱；而是一种爱。在一年的时间里，一个好年轻的女孩变成了一个好年轻的女人——很快就成为了一个好妻子，当幸福的时刻到来的时候。这个年轻人（也许她的父母鼓励她、怂恿她产生这种偶像崇拜和愚蠢的浪漫想法是非常不谨慎的）全心全意地爱着我们刚刚认识的那位为国王陛下服务的年轻军官。她醒来的第一刻就想到了他；他是她祈祷中最后提到的名字。她从未见过如此美丽或如此聪明的男人：这样一个马背上的人物：这样一个舞者：这样一个英雄。谈论王子的弓！乔治的是什么？她见过布鲁梅尔先生，每个人都称赞他。将这样的人与她的乔治相比较！在歌剧院的所有花花公子中（当时也有戴着真正的歌剧帽子的花花公子）没有人能与他相媲美。他只够当一个精灵王子而已；哦，向如此卑微的灰姑娘屈尊，这是多么大度啊！如果平克顿小姐是阿米莉亚的红颜知己，她很可能会试图制止这种盲目的忠诚。但并没有取得多大成功，取决于它。这是某些女性的本性和本能。有些人生来就是为了计谋，有些人生来就是为了爱；我希望任何一位受人尊敬的单身汉读到这篇文章后，都能选择最喜欢他的那种人。

While under this overpowering impression, Miss Amelia neglected her twelve dear friends at Chiswick most cruelly, as such selfish people commonly will do. She had but this subject, of course, to think about; and Miss Saltire was too cold for a confidante, and she couldn’t bring her mind to tell Miss Swartz, the woolly-haired young heiress from St. Kitt’s. She had little Laura Martin home for the holidays; and my belief is, she made a confidante of her, and promised that Laura should come and live with her when she was married, and gave Laura a great deal of information regarding the passion of love, which must have been singularly useful and novel to that little person. Alas, alas! I fear poor Emmy had not a wellregulated mind.
在这种压倒性的印象下，阿米莉亚小姐残酷地忽视了她在奇西克的十二位亲爱的朋友，就像这些自私的人通常会做的那样。当然，她只有这个话题要考虑；萨尔泰尔小姐对于一个红颜知己来说太冷漠了，她无法把这件事告诉斯沃茨小姐，这位来自圣基茨的、头发蓬乱的年轻女继承人。她带着小劳拉·马丁回家过节。我相信，她成了她的红颜知己，并承诺劳拉结婚后会来和她住在一起，并向劳拉提供了大量有关爱情激情的信息，这些信息对于劳拉来说一定是非常有用和新颖的。那个小人。唉，唉！我担心可怜的艾美没有一个良好的头脑。

What were her parents doing, not to keep this little heart from beating so fast? Old Sedley did not seem much to notice matters. He was graver of late, and his City affairs absorbed him. Mrs. Sedley was of so easy and uninquisitive a nature that she wasn’t even jealous. Mr. Jos was away, being besieged by an Irish widow at Cheltenham. Amelia had the house to herself—ah! too much to herself sometimes—not that she ever doubted; for, to be sure, George must be at the Horse Guards; and he can’t always get leave from Chatham; and he must see his friends and sisters, and mingle in society when in town (he, such an ornament to every society!); and when he is with the regiment, he is too tired to write long letters. I know where she kept that packet she had—and can steal in and out of her chamber like Iachimo—like Iachimo? No—that is a bad part. I will only act Moonshine, and peep harmless into the bed where faith and beauty and innocence lie dreaming.
她的父母在做什么，不是为了阻止这颗小心脏跳得这么快？老塞德利似乎并没有注意到什么。他最近变得严肃起来，城市事务让他全神贯注。塞德利夫人生性随和、不好奇，甚至不嫉妒。乔斯先生不在，在切尔滕纳姆被一位爱尔兰寡妇围困。阿米莉亚独享这栋房子——啊！有时她对自己太过分了——但她从来没有怀疑过；因为，可以肯定的是，乔治一定是在骑兵卫队；而且他也不能总是从查塔姆请假；他必须见到他的朋友和姐妹，并在城里时融入社会（他，对每个社会来说都是如此的装饰品！）；当他在团里时，他太累了，无法写长信。我知道她把那个包裹放在哪里——并且可以像亚基莫一样偷偷进出她的房间——像亚基莫一样？不——这是一个糟糕的部分。我只会扮演月光，无害地窥视床上，那里梦想着信仰、美丽和纯真。

But if Osborne’s were short and soldierlike letters, it must be confessed, that were Miss Sedley’s letters to Mr. Osborne to be published, we should have to extend this novel to such a multiplicity of volumes as not the most sentimental reader could support; that she not only filled sheets of large paper, but crossed them with the most astonishing perverseness; that she wrote whole pages out of poetry-books without the least pity; that she underlined words and passages with quite a frantic emphasis; and, in fine, gave the usual tokens of her condition. She wasn’t a heroine. Her letters were full of repetition. She wrote rather doubtful grammar sometimes, and in her verses took all sorts of liberties with the metre. But oh, mesdames, if you are not allowed to touch the heart sometimes in spite of syntax, and are not to be loved until you all know the difference between trimeter and tetrameter, may all Poetry go to the deuce, and every schoolmaster perish miserably!
但是，如果奥斯本的信很短，而且像军人一样，那么必须承认，那是塞德利小姐写给奥斯本先生的信要出版，我们应该把这本小说扩展到如此多的卷数，即使是最感伤的读者也无法支持；她不仅填满了大张纸，而且以最令人惊讶的任性来划线。她毫不怜悯地写下了整页的诗集；她非常疯狂地在单词和段落下面划线；最后，按惯例给出了她的状况。她不是女主角。她的信充满了重复。她有时写的语法相当令人怀疑，并且在她的诗句中对韵律采取了各种各样的自由。但是哦，女士们，如果有时不让你们触动心灵，不管语法如何，并且在你们都知道三音步和四音步之间的区别之前不被允许被爱，愿所有诗歌都走向平局，愿每个校长都惨死！

Chapter XIII
第十三章


Sentimental and Otherwise
感性的和其他的

I fear the gentleman to whom Miss Amelia’s letters were addressed was rather an obdurate critic. Such a number of notes followed Lieutenant Osborne about the country, that he became almost ashamed of the jokes of his mess-room companions regarding them, and ordered his servant never to deliver them except at his private apartment. He was seen lighting his cigar with one, to the horror of Captain Dobbin, who, it is my belief, would have given a bank-note for the document.
我担心阿米莉亚小姐的信所收的那位绅士是一位相当顽固的批评家。奥斯本中尉随身携带了如此多的关于这个国家的笔记，以至于他几乎为他的食堂同伴关于这些笔记的笑话感到羞愧，并命令他的仆人除了在他的私人公寓外，决不准送这些笔记。有人看到他用一支雪茄点燃雪茄，这让多宾船长感到恐惧，我相信他会用一张钞票来换取这份文件。

For some time George strove to keep the liaison a secret. There was a woman in the case, that he admitted. ‘And not the first either,’ said Ensign Spooney to Ensign Stubble. ‘That Osborne’s a devil of a fellow. There was a judge’s daughter at Demerara went almost mad about him; then there was that beautiful quadroon girl, Miss Pye, at St. Vincent’s, you know; and since he’s been home, they say he’s a regular Don Giovanni, by Jove.’
有一段时间，乔治努力保守这段关系的秘密。他承认此案中有一名女性。 “也不是第一个，”斯普尼少尉对斯塔布尔少尉说。 ‘奥斯本真是个恶魔。德梅拉拉有一位法官的女儿对他几乎要发疯了。你知道，还有圣文森特学院那位美丽的四方女孩，派伊小姐。自从他回家后，他们就说他是朱庇特笔下的普通唐璜。”

Stubble and Spooney thought that to be a ‘regular Don Giovanni, by Jove’ was one of the finest qualities a man could possess, and Osborne’s reputation was prodigious amongst the young men of the regiment. He was famous in field-sports, famous at a song, famous on parade; free with his money, which was bountifully supplied by his father. His coats were better made than any man’s in the regiment, and he had more of them. He was adored by the men. He could drink more than any officer of the whole mess, including old Heavytop, the colonel. He could spar better than Knuckles, the private (who would have been a corporal but for his drunkenness, and who had been in the prize-ring); and was the best batter and bowler, out and out, of the regimental club. He rode his own horse, Greased Lightning, and won the Garrison cup at Quebec races. There were other people besides Amelia who worshipped him. Stubble and Spooney thought him a sort of Apollo; Dobbin took him to be an Admirable Crichton; and Mrs. Major O’Dowd acknowledged he was an elegant young fellow, and put her in mind of Fitzjurld Fogarty, Lord Castlefogarty’s second son.
斯塔布尔和斯波尼认为，成为“天赐的正规唐璜”是一个人所能拥有的最好品质之一，而奥斯本在团里的年轻人中享有盛誉。他因田径运动而闻名，因歌曲而闻名，因游行而闻名。他的钱是他父亲慷慨提供的。他的外套比团里任何人的都做工好，而且他的外套也更多。他受到男人们的崇拜。他比整个混乱中的任何军官都喝得更多，包括老希维托普上校。他比二等兵纳克鲁斯打得更好（如果不是因为酗酒，纳克鲁斯本来可以成为一名下士，而且还曾参加过颁奖典礼）。他是团俱乐部里最好的击球手和投球手。他骑着自己的马“油脂闪电”，在魁北克赛马会上赢得了加里森杯。除了阿米莉亚之外，还有其他人崇拜他。斯塔布尔和斯波尼认为他是阿波罗。多宾认为他是一位令人钦佩的克莱顿。奥多德少校夫人承认他是一位优雅的年轻人，并让她想起卡斯尔福加蒂勋爵的次子菲茨尤尔德·福加蒂。

Well, Stubble and Spooney and the rest indulged in most romantic conjectures regarding this female correspondent of Osborne’s— opining that it was a Duchess in London who was in love with him—or that it was a General’s daughter, who was engaged to somebody else, and madly attached to him—or that it was a Member of Parliament’s lady, who proposed four horses and an elopement—or that it was some other victim of a passion delightfully exciting, romantic, and disgraceful to all parties, on none of which conjectures would Osborne throw the least light, leaving his young admirers and friends to invent and arrange their whole history.
嗯，斯塔布尔和斯波尼以及其他人对奥斯本的这位女记者做出了最浪漫的猜测——认为爱上他的是伦敦的一位公爵夫人——或者是一位将军的女儿，她与别人订婚了，并疯狂地依恋他——或者是一位国会议员的女士提出了四匹马和一次私奔——或者是其他一些激情的受害者，激情令人兴奋，浪漫，对各方来说都是可耻的，对此没有一个推测奥斯本会不会透露一点信息，让他年轻的崇拜者和朋友们发明和安排他们的整个历史。

And the real state of the case would never have been known at all in the regiment but for Captain Dobbin’s indiscretion. The Captain was eating his breakfast one day in the mess-room, while Cackle, the assistant-surgeon, and the two above-named worthies were speculating upon Osborne’s intrigue—Stubble holding out that the lady was a Duchess about Queen Charlotte’s court, and Cackle vowing she was an opera-singer of the worst reputation. At this idea Dobbin became so moved, that though his mouth was full of eggs and bread-and-butter at the time, and though he ought not to have spoken at all, yet he couldn’t help blurting out, ‘Cackle, you’re a stupid fool. You’re always talking nonsense and scandal. Osborne is not going to run off with a Duchess or ruin a milliner. Miss Sedley is one of the most charming young women that ever lived. He’s been engaged to her ever so long; and the man who calls her names had better not do so in my hearing.’ With which, turning exceedingly red, Dobbin ceased speaking, and almost choked himself with a cup of tea. The story was over the regiment in half-an-hour; and that very evening Mrs. Major O’Dowd wrote off to her sister Glorvina at O’Dowdstown not to hurry from Dublin—young Osborne being prematurely engaged already.
如果不是多宾上尉的轻率行为，整个团里根本不会知道案件的真实情况。一天，船长正在餐厅吃早餐，而助理外科医生卡克尔和上面提到的两位伟人正在猜测奥斯本的阴谋——斯塔布尔坚称这位女士是夏洛特王后宫廷的一位公爵夫人，并且卡克尔发誓她是名声最差的歌剧歌手。想到这里，多宾非常感动，尽管他当时嘴里塞满了鸡蛋和面包黄油，尽管他根本不应该说话，但他还是忍不住脱口而出：“咯咯，你是个愚蠢的傻瓜。你总是说些废话和丑闻。奥斯本不会与公爵夫人私奔，也不会毁掉一家女帽设计师。塞德利小姐是有史以来最迷人的年轻女性之一。他和她订婚这么久了；说完，多宾脸色涨得通红，不再说话，差点被一杯茶噎住。整个团的故事只用了半个小时就讲完了。就在那天晚上，奥多德少校夫人写信给奥多兹敦的妹妹格洛维娜，让她不要急着离开都柏林——年轻的奥斯本已经过早订婚了。

She complimented the Lieutenant in an appropriate speech over a glass of whisky-toddy that evening, and he went home perfectly furious to quarrel with Dobbin (who had declined Mrs. Major O’Dowd’s party, and sat in his own room playing the flute, and, I believe, writing poetry in a very melancholy manner)—to quarrel with Dobbin for betraying his secret.
那天晚上，她一边喝着一杯威士忌托地酒，一边发表了一篇得体的演讲，称赞了中尉，而中尉则气愤地回到家，与多宾发生争吵（多宾拒绝了奥多德少校夫人的聚会，坐在自己的房间里吹笛子，而且，我相信，以一种非常忧郁的方式写诗）——与多宾争吵，因为他泄露了他的秘密。

‘Who the deuce asked you to talk about my affairs?’ Osborne shouted indignantly. ‘Why the devil is all the regiment to know that I am going to be married? Why is that tattling old harridan, Peggy O’Dowd, to make free with my name at her d—d supper-table, and advertise my engagement over the three kingdoms? After all, what right have you to say I am engaged, or to meddle in my business at all, Dobbin?’
“谁他妈让你谈论我的事情？”奥斯本愤怒地喊道。 ‘为什么全团都知道我要结婚了？为什么那个爱说闲话的老哈里丹，佩吉·奥多德，要在她那该死的晚餐桌上放出我的名字，并在三个王国上宣扬我的订婚？毕竟，你有什么权利说我订婚了，或者干涉我的事，多宾？

‘It seems to me,’ Captain Dobbin began.
“在我看来，”多宾船长开始说道。

‘Seems be hanged, Dobbin,’ his junior interrupted him. ‘I am under obligations to you, I know it, a d—d deal too well too; but I won’t be always sermonised by you because you’re five years my senior. I’m hanged if I’ll stand your airs of superiority and infernal pity and patronage. Pity and patronage! I should like to know in what I’m your inferior?’
“看来是被绞死了，多宾，”他的学弟打断了他。 “我对你负有义务，我知道，这也太划算了；”但我不会总是被你说教，因为你比我大五岁。如果我忍受你的优越感、地狱般的怜悯和庇护，我就会被绞死。怜悯和惠顾！我想知道我在哪方面不如你？

‘Are you engaged?’ Captain Dobbin interposed.
“你订婚了吗？”多宾船长插话道。

‘What the devil’s that to you or any one here if I am?’
“如果我是的话，这对你或这里的任何人来说到底是什么？”

‘Are you ashamed of it?’ Dobbin resumed.
“你为此感到羞耻吗？”多宾继续问道。

‘What right have you to ask me that question, sir? I should like to know,’ George said.
“你有什么权利问我这个问题，先生？我想知道，”乔治说。

‘Good God, you don’t mean to say you want to break off?’ asked Dobbin, starting up.
“天哪，你的意思不是说你想分手吗？”多宾惊恐地问道。

‘In other words, you ask me if I’m a man of honour,’ said Osborne, fiercely; ‘is that what you mean? You’ve adopted such a tone regarding me lately that I’m ——— if I’ll bear it any more.’
“换句话来说，你问我是否是一个正直的人，”奥斯本恶狠狠地说。 '你是这个意思吗？你最近对我采取这样的语气，让我——如果我再忍耐的话。

‘What have I done? I’ve told you you were neglecting a sweet girl, George. I’ve told you that when you go to town you ought to go to her, and not to the gambling-houses about St. James’s.’
'我做了什么？我告诉过你，你忽视了一个可爱的女孩，乔治。我告诉过你，当你进城时，你应该去她那里，而不是去圣詹姆斯附近的赌场。

‘You want your money back, I suppose,’ said George, with a sneer.
“我想你想要回你的钱，”乔治冷笑道。

‘Of course I do—I always did, didn’t I?’ says Dobbin. ‘You speak like a generous fellow.’
“我当然知道——我一直都是这样，不是吗？”多宾说。 “你说话像个慷慨的人。”

‘No, hang it, William, I beg your pardon’—here George interposed in a fit of remorse; ‘you have been my friend in a hundred ways, Heaven knows. You’ve got me out of a score of scrapes. When Crawley of the Guards won that sum of money of me I should have been done but for you: I know I should. But you shouldn’t deal so hardly with me; you shouldn’t be always catechising me. I am very fond of Amelia; I adore her, and that sort of thing. Don’t look angry. She’s faultless; I know she is. But you see there’s no fun in winning a thing unless you play for it. Hang it: the regiment’s just back from the West Indies, I must have a little fling, and then when I’m married I’ll reform; I will upon my honour, now. And—I say—Dob— don’t be angry with me, and I’ll give you a hundred next month, when I know my father will stand something handsome; and I’ll ask Heavytop for leave, and I’ll go to town, and see Amelia to-morrow— there now, will that satisfy you?’
“不，挂掉吧，威廉，请原谅”——说到这里，乔治懊悔地插话道。 ‘天知道，你在一百方面都是我的朋友。你让我摆脱了许多擦伤。当近卫军的克劳利从我身上赢得那笔钱时，如果没有你，我就应该完蛋了：我知道我应该这么做。但你不应该对我这么严厉；你不应该总是对我进行问答。我非常喜欢阿米莉亚；我很喜欢她，诸如此类。别显得生气。她无可挑剔；我知道她是。但你会发现，除非你为之奋斗，否则赢得胜利并没有乐趣。等等：军团刚从西印度群岛回来，我必须有一点风流韵事，然后当我结婚时我会改过自新；我现在就以我的名誉担保。而且——我说——多布——别生我的气，下个月我会给你一百块，当我知道我父亲会忍受一些漂亮的东西时；我会向海维托普请假，明天我会进城去见阿米莉亚——现在就在那里，你满意吗？

‘It is impossible to be long angry with you, George,’ said the goodnatured Captain; ‘and as for the money, old boy, you know if I wanted it you’d share your last shilling with me.’
“乔治，你不可能对你生气太久，”和蔼可亲的船长说道。 “至于钱，老兄，你知道如果我想要的话，你会和我分享你最后的一先令。”

‘That I would, by Jove, Dobbin,’ George said, with the greatest generosity, though by the way he never had any money to spare.
“天啊，多宾，我会的，”乔治极其慷慨地说，尽管顺便说一句，他从来没有多余的钱。

‘Only I wish you had sown those wild oats of yours, George. If you could have seen poor little Miss Emmy’s face when she asked me about you the other day, you would have pitched those billiard-balls to the deuce. Go and comfort her, you rascal. Go and write her a long letter. Do something to make her happy; a very little will.’
“只是我希望你已经种下了你的那些野燕麦，乔治。如果那天可怜的小艾美小姐问起我关于你的事情时你能看到她的脸，你就会把那些台球打成平局。去安慰她吧，你这流氓。去给她写一封长信。做一些让她开心的事；很少的意愿。

‘I believe she’s d—d fond of me,’ the Lieutenant said, with a selfsatisfied air; and went off to finish the evening with some jolly fellows in the mess-room.
“我相信她非常——非常喜欢我，”中尉带着一种自鸣得意的神情说道。然后就去餐厅和一些快乐的朋友一起度过了这个夜晚。

Amelia meanwhile, in Russell Square, was looking at the moon, which was shining upon that peaceful spot, as well as upon the square of the Chatham barracks, where Lieutenant Osborne was quartered, and thinking to herself how her hero was employed. Perhaps he is visiting the sentries, thought she; perhaps he is bivouacking; perhaps he is attending the couch of a wounded comrade, or studying the art of war up in his own desolate chamber. And her kind thoughts sped away as if they were angels and had wings, and flying down the river to Chatham and Rochester, strove to peep into the barracks where George was…. All things considered, I think it was as well the gates were shut, and the sentry allowed no one to pass; so that the poor little white-robed angel could not hear the songs those young fellows were roaring over the whisky-punch.
与此同时，阿米莉亚在罗素广场看着月亮，月亮照耀着那个宁静的地方，也照耀着奥斯本中尉驻扎的查塔姆军营的广场，心里想着她的英雄是如何被雇佣的。也许他正在拜访哨兵，她想；也许他正在拜访哨兵。也许他正在露营；也许他正在照顾受伤战友的沙发，或者在自己荒凉的房间里学习兵法。她的善念像长了翅膀的天使一样飞驰而去，顺流而下，飞向查塔姆和罗切斯特，努力窥视乔治所在的军营……总而言之，我认为还好大门紧闭，哨兵不许任何人通过。这样可怜的白袍小天使就听不到那些年轻人喝着威士忌潘趣酒时咆哮的歌声了。

The day after the little conversation at Chatham barracks, young Osborne, to show that he would be as good as his word, prepared to go to town, thereby incurring Captain Dobbin’s applause. ‘I should have liked to make her a little present,’ Osborne said to his friend in confidence, ‘only I am quite out of cash until my father tips up.’ But Dobbin would not allow this good nature and generosity to be balked, and so accommodated Mr. Osborne with a few pound notes, which the latter took after a little faint scruple.
在查塔姆军营的简短谈话后的第二天，年轻的奥斯本为了表明他会言出必行，准备进城，从而引起了多宾上尉的掌声。 “我本想送她一份小礼物，”奥斯本私下对他的朋友说，“只是在我父亲给小费之前我已经没钱了。”但是多宾不允许他的善良和慷慨被阻挡，因此，奥斯本先生给了他几张英镑的钞票，奥斯本先生稍稍犹豫了一下，就收下了这些钞票。

And I dare say he would have bought something very handsome for Amelia; only, getting off the coach in Fleet Street, he was attracted by a handsome shirt-pin in a jeweller’s window, which he could not resist; and having paid for that, had very little money to spare for indulging in any further exercise of kindness. Never mind: you may be sure it was not his presents Amelia wanted. When he came to Russell Square, her face lighted up as if he had been sunshine. The little cares, fears, tears, timid misgivings, sleepless fancies of I don’t know how many days and nights, were forgotten, under one moment’s influence of that familiar, irresistible smile. He beamed on her from the drawing-room door— magnificent, with ambrosial whiskers, like a god. Sambo, whose face as he announced Captain Osbin (having conferred a brevet rank on that young officer) blazed with a sympathetic grin, saw the little girl start, and flush, and jump up from her watching-place in the window; and Sambo retreated: and as soon as the door was shut, she went fluttering to Lieutenant George Osborne’s heart as if it was the only natural home for her to nestle in. Oh, thou poor panting little soul! The very finest tree in the whole forest, with the straightest stem, and the strongest arms, and the thickest foliage, wherein you choose to build and coo, may be marked, for what you know, and may be down with a crash ere long. What an old, old simile that is, between man and timber!
我敢说他会给阿米莉亚买一些非常漂亮的东西；只是，在舰队街下车时，他被珠宝店橱窗里一枚漂亮的衬衫别针所吸引，无法抗拒；付出了这些代价后，他就没有多余的钱来进一步施行善意了。没关系：你可以确定这不是他阿米莉亚想要的礼物。当他来到罗素广场时，她的脸容光焕发，仿佛他来到了阳光下。不知多少个日日夜夜的些许牵挂、恐惧、泪水、胆怯的疑虑、不眠的幻想，在那熟悉的、不可抗拒的微笑的影响下，一瞬间都被遗忘了。他从客厅门口向她微笑——气派非凡，长着芬芳的胡须，就像一位神明。当桑博宣布奥斯宾上尉（已授予那位年轻军官荣誉称号）时，他的脸上绽放出同情的笑容。门一关上，她就扑到了乔治·奥斯本中尉的心里，仿佛那是她唯一的天然归宿。哦，你这个可怜的气喘吁吁的小灵魂！整个森林中最好的树，有最直的茎，最强壮的手臂和最厚的叶子，你选择在其中建造和咕咕地叫，据你所知，可能会被标记，并且可能很快就会崩溃。这是人与木头之间多么古老、多么古老的比喻啊！

In the meanwhile, George kissed her very kindly on her forehead and glistening eyes, and was very gracious and good; and she thought his diamond shirt-pin (which she had not known him to wear before) the prettiest ornament ever seen.
与此同时，乔治非常亲切地吻了吻她的额头和闪闪发亮的眼睛，而且非常和蔼可亲。她认为他的钻石衬衫别针（她以前不知道他戴过）是见过的最漂亮的装饰品。

The observant reader, who has marked our young Lieutenant’s previous behaviour, and has preserved our report of the brief conversation which he has just had with Captain Dobbin, has possibly come to certain conclusions regarding the character of Mr. Osborne. Some cynical Frenchman has said that there are two parties to a lovetransaction: the one who loves and the other who condescends to be so treated. Perhaps the love is occasionally on the man’s side; perhaps on the lady’s. Perhaps some infatuated swain has ere this mistaken insensibility for modesty, dulness for maiden reserve, mere vacuity for sweet bashfulness, and a goose, in a word, for a swan. Perhaps some beloved female subscriber has arrayed an ass in the splendour and glory of her imagination; admired his dulness as manly simplicity; worshipped his selfishness as manly superiority; treated his stupidity as majestic gravity, and used him as the brilliant fairy Titania did a certain weaver at Athens. I think I have seen such comedies of errors going on in the world. But this is certain, that Amelia believed her lover to be one of the most gallant and brilliant men in the empire: and it is possible Lieutenant Osborne thought so too.
细心的读者注意到了我们年轻中尉之前的行为，并保留了我们对他刚刚与多宾上尉进行的简短谈话的报告，他可能对奥斯本先生的性格得出了某些结论。一些愤世嫉俗的法国人说过，爱情交易有两方：一方是爱的一方，另一方是屈尊被如此对待的一方。也许爱情偶尔会站在男人这边；也许是在女士的身上。也许某些痴情的情人已经把这种麻木不仁误认为是谦虚，把迟钝误认为是少女矜持，把单纯的空虚误认为是甜蜜的害羞，总之，把鹅误认为是天鹅。也许一些心爱的女性订户在她想象中的辉煌和荣耀中装扮了一头屁股；欣赏他的沉闷，同时也欣赏他的男子气概。崇拜他的自私作为男子气概的优越感；把他的愚蠢视为庄严的重力，并利用他，就像聪明的仙女提泰妮娅对待雅典的某个织布工一样。我想我见过这样的关于世界上正在发生的错误的喜剧。但可以肯定的是，阿米莉亚相信她的情人是帝国最勇敢、最聪明的人之一：奥斯本中尉也可能这么认为。

He was a little wild: how many young men are; and don’t girls like a rake better than a milksop? He hadn’t sown his wild oats as yet, but he would soon: and quit the army now that peace was proclaimed; the Corsican monster locked up at Elba; promotion by consequence over; and no chance left for the display of his undoubted military talents and valour: and his allowance, with Amelia’s settlement, would enable them to take a snug place in the country somewhere, in a good sporting neighbourhood; and he would hunt a little, and farm a little; and they would be very happy. As for remaining in the army as a married man, that was impossible. Fancy Mrs. George Osborne in lodgings in a county town; or, worse still, in the East or West Indies, with a society of officers, and patronized by Mrs. Major O’Dowd! Amelia died with laughing at Osborne’s stories about Mrs. Major O’Dowd. He loved her much too fondly to subject her to that horrid woman and her vulgarities, and the rough treatment of a soldier’s wife. He didn’t care for himself—not he; but his dear little girl should take the place in society to which, as his wife, she was entitled: and to these proposals you may be sure she acceded, as she would to any other from the same author.
他有点狂：年轻人有多少啊？女孩们不是更喜欢耙子而不是奶嘴吗？他还没有撒野燕麦，但他很快就会：在和平宣布后退出军队；被关在厄尔巴岛的科西嘉怪物；因后果而晋升；他没有机会展示他无可置疑的军事才能和英勇：他的津贴加上阿米莉亚的定居，将使他们能够在这个国家的某个地方，在一个良好的体育社区中占据一个舒适的位置；他会打一点猎，耕种一点；他们会非常高兴。至于以已婚男人的身份留在军队，那是不可能的。喜欢乔治·奥斯本夫人在县城的住处；或者，更糟糕的是，在东印度群岛或西印度群岛，有一个军官协会，并受到奥多德少校夫人的光顾！阿米莉亚在奥斯本关于奥多德少校夫人的故事中笑死了。他太爱她了，不能让她遭受那个可怕的女人和她的粗俗，以及一个士兵妻子的粗暴对待。他不关心自己——不是他；他不关心自己。但他亲爱的小女儿应该在社会中占据一席之地，这是她作为他的妻子所应有的地位：你可以确信她同意了这些建议，就像她同意同一作者的任何其他建议一样。

Holding this kind of conversation, and building numberless castles in the air (which Amelia adorned with all sorts of flower-gardens, rustic walks, country churches, Sunday schools, and the like; while George had his mind’s eye directed to the stables, the kennel, and the cellar), this young pair passed away a couple of hours very pleasantly; and as the Lieutenant had only that single day in town, and a great deal of most important business to transact, it was proposed that Miss Emmy should dine with her future sisters-in-law. This invitation was accepted joyfully. He conducted her to his sisters; where he left her talking and prattling in a way that astonished those ladies, who thought that George might make something of her; and he then went off to transact his business.
进行这种谈话，建造了无数的空中楼阁（阿米莉亚用各种花园、乡村步道、乡村教堂、主日学校等装饰着空中楼阁；而乔治的心思则集中在马厩上，狗舍和地窖），这对年轻的夫妇非常愉快地去世了几个小时；由于中尉在城里只有一天的时间，而且还有很多最重要的事务要处理，所以有人提议艾美小姐应该和她未来的嫂子一起吃饭。这个邀请被愉快地接受了。他带她去见他的姐妹们。他让她喋喋不休，让那些女士们感到惊讶，她们认为乔治可能会利用她。然后他就去处理他的事了。

In a word, he went out and ate ices at a pastry-cook’s shop in Charing Cross; tried a new coat in Pall Mall; dropped in at the Old Slaughters’, and called for Captain Cannon; played eleven games at billiards with the Captain, of which he won eight, and returned to Russell Square half an hour late for dinner, but in very good humour.
总之，他出去到查令十字路口的一家糕点店吃冰块；在 Pall Mall 试穿了一件新外套；顺路拜访了老屠宰场，并拜访了坎农船长。和队长打了十一场台球，他赢了八场，晚了半个小时才回到罗素广场吃晚饭，但心情很好。

It was not so with old Mr. Osborne. When that gentleman came from the City, and was welcomed in the drawing-room by his daughters and the elegant Miss Wirt, they saw at once by his face—which was puffy, solemn, and yellow at the best of times—and by the scowl and twitching of his black eyebrows, that the heart within his large white waistcoat was disturbed and uneasy. When Amelia stepped forward to salute him, which she always did with great trembling and timidity, he gave a surly grunt of recognition, and dropped the little hand out of his great hirsute paw without any attempt to hold it there. He looked round gloomily at his eldest daughter; who, comprehending the meaning of his look, which asked unmistakably, ‘Why the devil is she here?’ said at once:
老奥斯本先生的情况却并非如此。当那位绅士从城里回来，在客厅里受到他的女儿们和优雅的沃特小姐的欢迎时，她们立刻就看到了他的脸——在最好的时候，他的脸是浮肿的、庄严的、泛黄的——还有他的脸。他的黑眉毛皱起眉头，抽动着，表明他宽大的白背心里的心不安不安。当阿米莉亚上前向他行礼时——她总是带着极大的颤抖和胆怯——他发出一声粗暴的咕哝声表示认可，然后将小手从他那长满毛的大爪子上松开，没有任何试图握住它的意思。他阴郁地环顾四周，看着他的大女儿。他明白了他眼神中的意思，那眼神无疑是在问：“她到底为什么会在这里？”立刻说道：

‘George is in town, Papa; and has gone to the Horse Guards, and will be back to dinner.’
“乔治在城里，爸爸；已经去了骑兵卫队，然后会回来吃晚饭。”

‘O he is, is he? I won’t have the dinner kept waiting for him, Jane”; with which this worthy man lapsed into his particular chair, and then the utter silence in his genteel, well-furnished drawingroom was only interrupted by the alarmed ticking of the great French clock.
‘哦，他是，是吗？我不会让晚餐一直等着他，简”；说完，这位可敬的人坐进了他那张特别的椅子上，然后，他那间优雅、布置精美的客厅里一片寂静，只有法国大钟惊恐的滴答声打断了他。

When that chronometer, which was surmounted by a cheerful brass group of the sacrifice of Iphigenia, tolled five in a heavy cathedral tone, Mr. Osborne pulled the bell at his right handviolently, and the butler rushed up.
当那个计时器上刻着伊菲革涅亚牺牲的欢快的铜管乐曲，当它以沉重的大教堂音调敲响五点时，奥斯本先生猛烈地拉动右手的铃，管家冲了上去。

‘Dinner!’ roared Mr. Osborne.
“晚餐！”奥斯本先生吼道。

‘Mr. George isn’t come in, sir,’ interposed the man.
'先生。乔治没有进来，先生。”那人插嘴道。

‘Damn Mr. George, sir. Am I master of the house? DINNER!’ Mr. Osborne scowled. Amelia trembled. A telegraphic communication of eyes passed between the other three ladies. The obedient bell in the lower regions began ringing the announcement of the meal. The tolling over, the head of the family thrust his hands into the great tail-pockets of his great blue coat with brass buttons, and without waiting for a further announcement strode downstairs alone, scowling over his shoulder at the four females.
“该死的乔治先生，先生。我是这个家的主人吗？晚餐！”奥斯本先生皱起眉头。阿米莉亚浑身发抖。其他三位女士之间进行了眼神交流。下层区域的听话钟声开始敲响，宣布开饭了。敲门声结束后，一家之主把手伸进他那件镶有黄铜纽扣的蓝色大衣的大后袋里，不等进一步的通知，就独自大步走下楼，回头对四个女人皱起了眉头。

‘What’s the matter now, my dear?’ asked one of the other, as they rose and tripped gingerly behind the sire. ‘I suppose the funds are falling,’ whispered Miss Wirt; and so, trembling and in silence, this hushed female company followed their dark leader. They took their places in silence. He growled out a blessing, which sounded as gruffly as a curse. The great silver dish-covers were removed. Amelia trembled in her place, for she was next to the awful Osborne, and alone on her side of the table—the gap being occasioned by the absence of George.
“现在出了什么问题，亲爱的？”当他们站起来并小心翼翼地跟在父亲身后时，其中一个问道。 “我想资金正在减少，”沃特小姐低声说道。于是，这支沉默的女性队伍颤抖着，默默地追随了她们黑暗的领袖。他们默默地就座。他咆哮着祝福，听起来就像咒骂一样粗哑。大银盘盖被取下。阿米莉亚在原地发抖，因为她坐在可怕的奥斯本旁边，而且独自坐在桌子的她这一边——乔治不在，造成了间隙。

‘Soup?’ says Mr. Osborne, clutching the ladle, fixing his eyes on her, in a sepulchral tone; and having helped her and the rest, did not speak for a while.
“汤？”奥斯本先生抓着勺子，眼睛盯着她，语气阴郁。帮了她和其他人之后，有一会儿没有说话。

‘Take Miss Sedley’s plate away,’ at last he said. ‘She can’t eat the soup—no more can I. It’s beastly. Take away the soup, Hicks, and to-morrow turn the cook out of the house, Jane.’
“把塞德利小姐的盘子拿走，”最后他说道。 “她不能吃汤——我也不能。这太糟糕了。”把汤拿走，希克斯，明天把厨师赶出家门，简。”

Having concluded his observations upon the soup, Mr. Osborne made a few curt remarks respecting the fish, also of a savage and satirical tendency, and cursed Billingsgate with an emphasis quite worthy of the place. Then he lapsed into silence, and swallowed sundry glasses of wine, looking more and more terrible, till a brisk knock at the door told of George’s arrival when everybody began to rally.
奥斯本先生结束了对汤的观察后，对鱼说了几句简短的话，也带有野蛮和讽刺的倾向，并咒骂比林斯盖特，语气非常配得上这个地方。然后他陷入沉默，吞下了各种各样的酒，看起来越来越可怕，直到轻快的敲门声告诉人们乔治的到来，这时每个人都开始聚集起来。

‘He could not come before. General Daguilet had kept him waiting at the Horse Guards. Never mind soup or fish. Give him anything—he didn’t care what. Capital mutton—capital everything.’ His good humour contrasted with his father’s severity; and he rattled on unceasingly during dinner, to the delight of all—of one especially, who need not be mentioned.
‘他以前不能来。达吉莱特将军让他在骑兵卫队等候。别介意汤或鱼。给他任何东西——他不在乎什么。他的幽默感与他父亲的严厉形成鲜明对比。晚餐期间，他滔滔不绝地滔滔不绝，让所有人都高兴不已——尤其是一个无需提及的人。

As soon as the young ladies had discussed the orange and the glass of wine which formed the ordinary conclusion of the dismal banquets at Mr. Osborne’s house, the signal to make sail for the drawing-room was given, and they all arose and departed. Amelia hoped George would soon join them there. She began playing some of his favourite waltzes (then newly imported) at the great carved-legged, leathercased grand piano in the drawing-room overhead. This little artifice did not bring him. He was deaf to the waltzes; they grew fainter and fainter; the discomfited performer left the huge instrument presently; and though her three friends performed some of the loudest and most brilliant new pieces of their repertoire, she did not hear a single note, but sate thinking, and boding evil. Old Osborne’s scowl, terrific always, had never before looked so deadly to her. His eyes followed her out of the room, as if she had been guilty of something. When they brought her coffee, she started as though it were a cup of poison which Mr. Hicks, the butler, wished to propose to her. What mystery was there lurking? Oh, those women! They nurse and cuddle their presentiments, and make darlings of their ugliest thoughts, as they do of their deformed children.
年轻的女士们刚讨论完奥斯本先生家中那场惨淡宴会的通常结局——橘子和一杯酒，就发出了开船前往客厅的信号，大家都起身离开了。阿米莉亚希望乔治很快就能加入他们那里。她开始在客厅头顶的一架巨大的雕腿皮套三角钢琴上演奏他最喜欢的华尔兹（当时是新进口的）。这个小诡计并没有给他带来什么。他对华尔兹充耳不闻；它们变得越来越微弱。沮丧的表演者很快就离开了巨大的乐器。尽管她的三个朋友演奏了他们的曲目中一些最响亮、最精彩的新作品，但她没有听到任何音符，而是坐在思考中，预兆着邪恶。老奥斯本的怒容从来没有像现在这样对她如此致命。他的目光跟着她走出房间，仿佛她犯了什么罪。当他们给她端来咖啡时，她吃了一惊，好像这是管家希克斯先生想向她提议的一杯毒药。其中究竟隐藏着什么秘密？哦，那些女人！他们抚育和拥抱自己的预感，把最丑陋的想法变成宝贝，就像他们对待畸形的孩子一样。

The gloom on the paternal countenance had also impressed George Osborne with anxiety. With such eyebrows, and a look so decidedly bilious, how was he to extract that money from the governor, of which George was consumedly in want? He began praising his father’s wine. That was generally a successful means of cajoling the old gentleman.
父亲脸上的阴郁也让乔治·奥斯本感到焦虑。有着这样的眉毛，而且看上去如此明显的暴躁，他如何从州长那里榨取乔治急需的钱呢？他开始称赞他父亲的酒。这通常是哄骗老先生的成功手段。

‘We never got such Madeira in the West Indies, sir, as yours. Colonel Heavytop took off three bottles of that you sent me down, under his belt the other day.’
“我们在西印度群岛从来没有买到过像您这样的马德拉酒，先生。那天，海维托普上校从他的腰带下取下了三瓶你送我下来的酒。

‘Did he?’ said the old gentleman. ‘It stands me in eight shillings a bottle.’
“是吗？”老先生说。 “一瓶我要花八先令。”

‘Will you take six guineas a dozen for it, sir?’ said George, with a laugh. ‘There’s one of the greatest men in the kingdom wants some.’
“先生，您愿意花六畿尼一打吗？”乔治笑着说。 “王国里最伟大的人物之一想要一些。”

‘Does he?’ growled the senior. ‘Wish he may get it.’
“是吗？”学长咆哮道。 “希望他能得到它。”

‘When General Daguilet was at Chatham, sir, Heavytop gave him a breakfast, and asked me for some of the wine. The General liked it just as well—wanted a pipe for the Commander-in-Chief. He’s his Royal Highness’s right-hand man.’
“当达吉莱特将军在查塔姆时，长官，海维托普给了他一顿早餐，并向我要了一些酒。将军也很喜欢它——想要给总司令一根烟斗。他是殿下的得力助手。

‘It is devilish fine wine,’ said the Eyebrows, and they looked more good-humoured; and George was going to take advantage of this complacency, and bring the supply question on the mahogany, when the father, relapsing into solemnity, though rather cordial in manner, bade him ring the bell for claret. ‘And we’ll see if that’s as good as the Madeira, George, to which his Royal Highness is welcome, I’m sure. And as we are drinking it, I’ll talk to you about a matter of importance.’
“这是一种恶魔般的美酒。”眉毛们说道，他们看上去心情更加愉快了。乔治正要利用这种自满情绪，提出桃花心木的供应问题，这时父亲又恢复了严肃，尽管态度相当亲切，吩咐他按响铃来喝红葡萄酒。 “我们会看看这是否和马德拉酒一样好，乔治，我相信殿下会欢迎它。”当我们喝它的时候，我会和你谈谈一件重要的事情。

Amelia heard the claret bell ringing as she sat nervously upstairs. She thought, somehow, it was a mysterious and presentimental bell. Of the presentiments which some people are always having, some surely must come right.
阿米莉亚紧张地坐在楼上，听到红酒铃声响起。她觉得，不知何故，这是一个神秘而充满预感的钟声。在有些人总是有的预感中，有些肯定是正确的。

‘What I want to know, George,’ the old gentleman said, after slowly smacking his first bumper—‘what I want to know is, how you and—ahthat little thing upstairs, are carrying on?’
“我想知道的是，乔治，”老绅士慢慢地敲击了他的第一个保险杠后说道，“我想知道的是，你和——楼上那个小东西，现在过得怎么样？”

‘I think, sir, it is not hard to see,’ George said, with a selfsatisfied grin. ‘Pretty clear, sir.—What capital wine!’
“我想，先生，这不难看出，”乔治满意地笑道。 “非常清楚，先生。——多么优质的葡萄酒啊！”

‘What d’you mean, pretty clear, sir?’
“你说的很清楚，是什么意思？”

‘Why, hang it, sir, don’t push me too hard. I’m a modest man. I— ah—I don’t set up to be a lady-killer; but I do own that she’s as devilish fond of me as she can be. Anybody can see that with half an eye.’
‘哎呀，挂了吧，先生，别把我逼得太紧了。我是一个谦虚的人。我——啊——我不想成为一个女人杀手；我不想成为一个女人杀手。但我确实承认她非常喜欢我。任何人都可以用半只眼睛看到这一点。

‘And you yourself?’
“你自己呢？”

‘Why, sir, didn’t you order me to marry her, and ain’t I a good boy? Haven’t our Papas settled it ever so long?’
“为什么，先生，您没有命令我娶她，我不是一个好孩子吗？”我们的爸爸这么久还没有解决这个问题吗？

‘A pretty boy, indeed. Haven’t I heard of your doings, sir, with Lord Tarquin, Captain Crawley of the Guards, the Honourable Mr. Deuceace and that set. Have a care sir, have a care.’
‘确实是个漂亮男孩。我难道没有听说过您与塔奎因勋爵、近卫队克劳利上尉、尊敬的杜斯先生以及那群人的所作所为吗？保重，先生，保重。

The old gentleman pronounced these aristocratic names with the greatest gusto. Whenever he met a great man he grovelled before him, and my-lorded him as only a free-born Briton can do. He came home and looked out his history in the Peerage: he introduced his name into his daily conversation; he bragged about his Lordship to his daughters. He fell down prostrate and basked in him as a Neapolitan beggar does in the sun. George was alarmed when he heard the names. He feared his father might have been informed of certain transactions at play. But the old moralist eased him by saying serenely:
老先生津津有味地念出这些贵族名字。每当他遇到一位伟人时，他都会在他面前卑躬屈膝，对他俯首帖耳，只有生来自由的英国人才能做到这一点。他回到家，回顾了自己在贵族中的历史：他在日常谈话中介绍了自己的名字；他向女儿们吹嘘自己的爵位。他跪倒在地，像那不勒斯乞丐晒太阳一样在他身上晒太阳。乔治听到这些名字时感到震惊。他担心他的父亲可能已获悉某些正在发生的交易。但老道德家平静地说道：

‘Well, well, young men will be young men. And the comfort to me is, George, that living in the best society in England, as I hope you do; as I think you do; as my means will allow you to do—‘
‘好吧，好吧，年轻人就是年轻人。乔治，让我感到安慰的是，生活在英国最好的社会里，就像我希望你那样；正如我认为你所做的那样；正如我的手段允许你做的那样——”

‘Thank you, sir,’ says George, making his point at once. ‘One can’t live with these great folks for nothing; and my purse, sir, look at it”; and he held up a little token which had been netted by Amelia, and contained the very last of Dobbin’s pound notes.
“谢谢您，先生。”乔治立即表明了自己的观点。 “一个人不能无缘无故地和这些伟大的人一起生活；还有我的钱包，先生，看看它”；他举起阿米莉亚抓到的一个小令牌，里面装着多宾最后一张英镑纸币。

‘You shan’t want, sir. The British merchant’s son shan’t want, sir. My guineas are as good as theirs, George, my boy; and I don’t grudge ‘em. Call on Mr. Chopper as you go through the City to-morrow; he’ll have something for you. I don’t grudge money when I know you’re in good society, because I know that good society can never go wrong. There’s no pride in me. I was a humbly born man—but you have had advantages. Make a good use of ‘em. Mix with the young nobility. There’s many of ‘em who can’t spend a dollar to your guinea, my boy. And as for the pink bonnets (here from under the heavy eyebrows there came a knowing and not very pleasing leer)—why boys will be boys. Only there’s one thing I order you to avoid, which, if you do not, I’ll cut you off with a shilling, by Jove; and that’s gambling.’
“你不会想要的，先生。英国商人的儿子不会想要，先生。我的几尼和他们的一样好，乔治，我的孩子；我并不怨恨他们。明天你穿过这座城市时，去拜访一下乔巴先生；他会给你一些东西。当我知道你生活在一个美好的社会时，我不会吝惜金钱，因为我知道美好的社会永远不会出错。我没有任何骄傲。我出身卑微，但你有优势。好好利用它们。与年轻贵族混在一起。我的孩子，他们中有很多人连一美元都花不了几内亚。至于粉红色的帽子（从浓重的眉毛下面传来一种会心但不太令人愉快的斜视）——为什么男孩就是男孩。只有一件事我命令你避免，如果你不这样做，我会用一先令砍掉你，天哪；这就是赌博。”

‘Oh, of course, sir,’ said George.
“哦，当然，先生，”乔治说。

‘But to return to the other business about Amelia: why shouldn’t you marry higher than a stockbroker’s daughter, George—that’s what I want to know?’
“但是回到关于阿米莉亚的另一件事：为什么你不应该嫁给比股票经纪人的女儿乔治更高的人——这就是我想知道的？”

‘It’s a family business, sir,’.says George, cracking filberts. ‘You and Mr. Sedley made the match a hundred years ago.’
“这是一个家族企业，先生，”乔治一边说着，一边嚼着榛子。 “你和塞德利先生一百年前就结下了不解之缘。”

‘I don’t deny it; but people’s positions alter, sir. I don’t deny that Sedley made my fortune, or rather put me in the way of acquiring, by my own talents and genius, that proud position, which, I may say, I occupy in the tallow trade and the City of London. I’ve shown my gratitude to Sedley; and he’s tried it of late, sir, as my cheque-book can show. George! I tell you in confidence I don’t like the looks of Mr. Sedley’s affairs. My chief clerk, Mr. Chopper, does not like the looks of ‘em, and he’s an old file, and knows ‘Change as well as any man in London. Hulker & Bullock are looking shy at him. He’s been dabbling on his own account I fear. They say the Jeune Amelie was his, which was taken by the Yankee privateer Molasses. And that’s flat—unless I see Amelia’s ten thousand down you don’t marry her. I’ll have no lame duck’s daughter in my family. Pass the wine, sir—or ring for coffee.’
“我不否认；但人们的立场会改变，先生。我不否认塞德利创造了我的财富，或者更确切地说，让我通过自己的才能和天才获得了那个令人自豪的地位，我可以说，我在牛脂贸易和伦敦金融城占据了这个令人自豪的地位。我向塞德利表达了我的感激之情；先生，正如我的支票簿所示，他最近已经尝试过了。乔治！我私下告诉你，我不喜欢塞德利先生的风流韵事。我的首席办事员乔巴先生不喜欢他们的长相，而且他是个老档案，并且比伦敦的任何人都了解“变革”。浩克和布洛克害羞地看着他。我担心他一直在为自己的利益涉足。他们说“年轻艾米莉”号是他的，被北方佬私掠船“糖蜜”号夺走。那是平淡的——除非我看到阿米莉亚已经有一万了，否则你就不会娶她。我的家里不会有跛脚鸭的女儿。先生，请递酒——或者叫杯咖啡。”

With which Mr. Osborne spread out the evening paper, and George knew from this signal that the colloquy was ended, and that his papa was about to take a nap.
奥斯本先生摊开晚报，乔治从这个信号中知道谈话结束了，他的爸爸要小睡了。

He hurried upstairs to Amelia in the highest spirits. What was it that made him more attentive to her on that night than he had been for a long time—more eager to amuse her, more tender, more brilliant in talk? Was it that his generous heart warmed to her at the prospect of misfortune; or that the idea of losing the dear little prize made him value it more?
他兴高采烈地冲上楼去找阿米莉亚。是什么让那天晚上他比很长一段时间以来对她更加殷勤——更加渴望逗她开心，更加温柔，谈吐更加精彩？是不是他慷慨的心在她遭遇不幸时感到温暖？或者说失去这个可爱的小奖品的想法让他更加珍惜它？

She lived upon the recollections of that happy evening for many days afterwards, remembering his words; his looks; the song he sang; his attitude, as he leant over her or looked at her from a distance. As it seemed to her, no night ever passed so quickly at Mr. Osborne’s house before; and for once this young person was almost provoked to be angry by the premature arrival of Mr. Sambo with her shawl.
在那之后的很多天里，她都在回忆那个幸福的夜晚，记住他的话。他的外表；他唱的歌；他的态度，当他俯身在她身上或远远地看着她时。在她看来，奥斯本先生家里的夜晚从来没有过得这么快。这一次，桑博先生带着她的披肩提前到来，这个年轻人几乎要生气了。

George came and took a tender leave of her the next morning; and then hurried off to the City, where he visited Mr. Chopper, his father’s head man, and received from that gentleman a document which he exchanged at Hulker & Bullock’s for a whole pocketful of money. As George entered the house, old John Sedley was passing out of the banker’s parlour, looking very dismal. But his godson was much too elated to mark the worthy stockbroker’s depression, or the dreary eyes which the kind old gentleman cast upon him. Young Bullock did not come grinning out of the parlour with him as had been his wont in former years.
第二天早上，乔治来了，温柔地告别了她。然后他匆匆赶往城里，在那里拜访了他父亲的头儿乔巴先生，并从这位先生那里收到了一份文件，他用这份文件在浩克和布洛克那里换了整整一口袋的钱。当乔治走进房子时，老约翰·塞德利正从银行家的客厅里走过，看上去非常沮丧。但他的教子太高兴了，没有注意到这位可敬的股票经纪人的沮丧，也没有注意到这位善良的老绅士向他投来的呆滞的目光。小布洛克没有像往年那样笑着和他一起走出客厅。

And as the swinging doors of Hulker, Bullock & Co. closed upon Mr. Sedley, Mr. Quill, the cashier (whose benevolent occupation it is to hand out crisp bank-notes from a drawer and dispense sovereigns out of a copper shovel), winked at Mr. Driver, the clerk at the desk on his right. Mr. Driver winked again.
当浩克布洛克公司的旋转门向出纳员塞德利先生、奎尔先生（其仁慈的职业是从抽屉里拿出干净的钞票和用铜铲分发金币）逼近时，向他右边办公桌上的职员德赖弗先生眨了眨眼。德赖弗先生又眨了眨眼睛。

‘No go,’ Mr. D. whispered.
“不许走，”D 先生低声说道。

‘Not at no price,’ Mr. Q. said. ‘Mr. George Osborne, sir, how will you take it?’ George crammed eagerly a quantity of notes into his pockets, and paid Dobbin fifty pounds that very evening at mess.
“不是没有代价的，”Q 先生说。 '先生。乔治·奥斯本，先生，您觉得怎么样？”乔治急切地把一大堆钞票塞进口袋里，当天晚上就在混乱中付给了多宾五十英镑。

That very evening Amelia wrote him the tenderest of long letters. Her heart was overflowing with tenderness, but it still foreboded evil. What was the cause of Mr. Osborne’s dark looks? she asked. Had any difference arisen between him and her papa? Her poor papa returned so melancholy from the City, that all were alarmed about him at home—in fine, there were four pages of loves and fears and hopes and forebodings.
那天晚上，阿米莉亚给他写了一封最温柔的长信。她的心里满溢着柔情，却又预感着邪恶。奥斯本先生脸色黝黑的原因是什么？她问。他和她爸爸之间有什么不同吗？她可怜的爸爸从城里回来时如此忧郁，家里所有人都为他感到震惊——总之，有四页纸写满了爱、恐惧、希望和不祥。

‘Poor little Emmy—dear little Emmy. How fond she is of me,’ George said, as he perused the missive—‘and Gad, what a headache that mixed punch has given me!’ Poor little Emmy, indeed.
“可怜的小艾美——亲爱的小艾美。她多么喜欢我啊，”乔治一边细读这封信一边说道，“加德，那混合拳头让我多么头疼啊！”确实是可怜的小艾美。

Chapter XIV
第十四章


Miss Crawley at Home
克劳利小姐在家

About this time there drove up to an exceedingly snug and wellappointed house in Park Lane, a travelling chariot with a lozenge on the panels, a discontented female in a green veil and crimped curls on the rumble, and a large and confidential man on the box. It was the equipage of our friend Miss Crawley, returning from Hants. The carriage windows were shut; the fat spaniel, whose head and tongue ordinarily lolled out of one of them, reposed on the lap of the discontented female. When the vehicle stopped, a large round bundle of shawls was taken out of the carriage by the aid of various domestics and a young lady who accompanied the heap of cloaks. That bundle contained Miss Crawley, who was conveyed upstairs forthwith, and put into a bed and chamber warmed properly as for the reception of an invalid. Messengers went off for her physician and medical man. They came, consulted, prescribed, vanished. The young companion of Miss Crawley, at the conclusion of their interview, came in to receive their instructions, and administered those antiphlogistic medicines which the eminent men ordered.
大约在这个时候，他们驶向公园巷一栋极其舒适、设备齐全的房子，一辆旅行战车的面板上有一个菱形，一个不满的女人，戴着绿色面纱，卷曲的卷发隆隆作响，盒子上有一个身材魁梧、保密的男人。 。这是我们的朋友克劳利小姐的马车，从汉茨回来。车厢窗户关着。那只肥胖的西班牙猎犬，通常它的头和舌头都从其中一只身上垂下来，现在却躺在了不满的雌性猎犬的腿上。车子停下来后，一大捆围巾在众家仆和随行的一位年轻女士的帮助下从车厢里取出来。那包包裹里装着克劳利小姐，她立即被送到楼上，放进一张床和房间里，房间已经暖和起来，就像接待病人一样。信使们出发去找她的医生和医务人员。他们来了，咨询了，开了处方，然后就消失了。克劳利小姐的年轻同伴在采访结束后进来接受指示，并服用了那些杰出人物所吩咐的消炎药。

Captain Crawley of the Life Guards rode up from Knightsbridge Barracks the next day; his black charger pawed the straw before his invalid aunt’s door. He was most affectionate in his inquiries regarding that amiable relative. There seemed to be much source of apprehension. He found Miss Crawley’s maid (the discontented female) unusually sulky and despondent; he found Miss Briggs, her dame de compagnie, in tears alone in the drawing-room. She had hastened home, hearing of her beloved friend’s illness. She wished to fly to her couch, that couch which she, Briggs, had so often smoothed in the hour of sickness. She was denied admission to Miss Crawley’s apartment. A stranger was administering her medicines—a stranger from the country—an odious Miss … —tears choked the utterance of the dame de compagnie, and she buried her crushed affections and her poor old red nose in her pocket handkerchief.
第二天，救生员克劳利上尉从骑士桥军营骑马而来。他的黑色战马用爪子扒着他生病的姨妈门前的稻草。他非常亲切地询问那位和蔼可亲的亲戚。似乎有很多忧虑的根源。他发现克劳利小姐的女仆（不满的女性）异常阴沉和沮丧。他发现布里格斯小姐，她的公司夫人，独自在客厅里流泪。听说她心爱的朋友生病了，她赶紧回家。她希望飞到她的沙发上，那张她布里格斯在生病时经常抚平的沙发。她被拒绝进入克劳利小姐的公寓。一个陌生人正在给她喂药——一个来自乡下的陌生人——一个可恶的小姐……——泪水哽咽了这位贵妇的话语，她把她破碎的感情和她那可怜的老红鼻子埋在口袋里的手帕里。

Rawdon Crawley sent up his name by the sulky femme de chambre, and Miss Crawley’s new companion, coming tripping down from the sickroom, put a little hand into his as he stepped forward eagerly to meet her, gave a glance of great scorn at the bewildered Briggs, and beckoning the young Guardsman out of the back drawing-room, led him downstairs into that now desolate dining-parlour, where so many a good dinner had been celebrated.
罗顿·克劳利通过那位阴沉的女士报了名，克劳利小姐的新同伴从病房里跌跌撞撞地走下来，急切地走上前去迎接她，用一只小手握住了他的手，用极大的蔑视看了一眼那个困惑的人。布里格斯招呼这位年轻的卫兵走出后客厅，领着他下楼，走进那间现在已经荒凉的餐厅，那里已经举办过很多次丰盛的晚餐了。

Here these two talked for ten minutes, discussing, no doubt, the symptoms of the old invalid above stairs; at the end of which period the parlour bell was rung briskly, and answered on that instant by Mr. Bowls, Miss Crawley’s large confidential butler (who, indeed, happened to be at the keyhole during the most part of the interview); and the Captain coming out, curling his mustachios, mounted the black charger pawing among the straw, to the admiration of the little blackguard boys collected in the street. He looked in at the dining-room window, managing his horse, which curvetted and capered beautifully—for one instant the young person might be seen at the window, when her figure vanished, and, doubtless, she went upstairs again to resume the affecting duties of benevolence.
这两个人聊了十分钟，毫无疑问，他们讨论的是楼梯上那个老病人的症状。这段时间结束时，客厅的门铃轻快地敲响了，克劳利小姐的大管家鲍尔斯先生立即接听了电话（实际上，在采访的大部分时间里，鲍尔斯先生碰巧都在钥匙孔旁）。船长走了出来，卷起了小胡子，骑上黑色的战马，用爪子刨着稻草，这引起了聚集在街上的小黑卫男孩的钦佩。他向餐厅的窗户望去，控制着他的马，它优美地弯曲、跳跃——有那么一瞬间，年轻人可能会出现在窗口，当她的身影消失时，毫无疑问，她又上楼去恢复那令人感动的感觉。仁义的义务。

Who could this young woman be, I wonder? That evening a little dinner for two persons was laid in the dining-room—when Mrs. Firkin, the lady’s maid, pushed into her mistress’s apartment, and bustled about there during the vacancy occasioned by the departure of the new nurse—and the latter and Miss Briggs sat down to the neat little meal.
我想知道这个年轻女子是谁？那天晚上，餐厅里为两个人准备了一顿小晚餐——当时那位女士的女仆菲尔金夫人推进了女主人的公寓，并在新护士离开造成的空缺期间在那里忙碌起来——而后者布里格斯小姐坐下来享用一顿丰盛的小餐。

Briggs was so much choked by emotion that she could hardly take a morsel of meat. The young person carved a fowl with the utmost delicacy, and asked so distinctly for egg-sauce, that poor Briggs, before whom that delicious condiment was placed, started, made a great clattering with the ladle, and once more fell back in the most gushing hysterical state.
布里格斯激动得几乎无法吃一口肉。年轻人把一只鸡切得极其精致，并明确地要了鸡蛋酱，可怜的布里格斯，在他面前摆着美味的调味品，吃了一惊，用勺子发出了一声巨大的咔嗒声，然后再次跌倒在最深处。涌出歇斯底里的状态。

‘Had you not better give Miss Briggs a glass of wine?’ said the person to Mr. Bowls, the large confidential man. He did so. Briggs seized it mechanically, gasped it down convulsively, moaned a little, and began to play with the chicken on her plate.
“你最好给布里格斯小姐一杯酒吗？”那人对鲍尔斯先生说，他是个身材高大、保密的人。他这样做了。布里格斯机械地抓住了它，抽搐地喘着气，轻轻地呻吟了一声，然后开始玩弄盘子里的鸡肉。

‘I think we shall be able to help each other,’ said the person with great suavity: ‘and shall have no need of Mr. Bowls’s kind services. Mr. Bowls, if you please, we will ring when we want you.’ He went downstairs, where, by the way, he vented the most horrid curses upon the unoffending footman, his subordinate.
“我想我们应该能够互相帮助，”那个人非常和蔼地说：“并且不需要鲍尔斯先生的友善服务。鲍尔斯先生，如果您愿意的话，我们会在需要您的时候按铃。”他下楼，顺便说一句，他对他的下属、没有冒犯的男仆发出了最可怕的咒骂。

‘It is a pity you take on so, Miss Briggs,’ the young lady said, with a cool, slightly sarcastic, air.
“布里格斯小姐，你这么做真是太遗憾了。”年轻的女士语气冷静，略带讽刺。

‘My dearest friend is so ill, and wo-o-on’t see me,’ gurgled out Briggs in an agony of renewed grief.
“我最亲爱的朋友病得很重，你看不到我了，”布里格斯在新的悲痛中咯咯地说。

‘She’s not very ill any more. Console yourself, dear Miss Briggs. She has only overeaten herself—that is all. She is greatly better. She will soon be quite restored again. She is weak from being cupped and from medical treatment, but she will rally immediately. Pray console yourself, and take a little more wine.’
‘她的病已经不重了。安慰一下自己吧，亲爱的布里格斯小姐。她只是吃得太多了——仅此而已。她好多了。她很快就会恢复正常。由于拔罐和治疗，她很虚弱，但她会立即恢复健康。请安慰一下自己，再喝一点酒。”

‘But why, why won’t she see me again?’ Miss Briggs bleated out. ‘Oh, Matilda, Matilda, after three-and-twenty years’ tenderness! is this the return to your poor, poor Arabella?’
“但是为什么，为什么她再也见不到我了？”布里格斯小姐咩咩地说。 “哦，玛蒂尔达，玛蒂尔达，经过三年二十年的温柔！这就是你可怜的阿拉贝拉的回归吗？

‘Don’t cry too much, poor Arabella,’ the other said (with ever so little of a grin); ‘she only won’t see you, because she says you don’t nurse her as well as I do. It’s no pleasure to me to sit up all night. I wish you might do it instead.’
“别哭太多，可怜的阿拉贝拉，”另一个说（笑容很少）。 “她只是不愿意见你，因为她说你没有我照顾她。”整夜坐着对我来说并不愉快。我希望你可以这样做。

‘Have I not tended that dear couch for years?’ Arabella said, ‘and now—‘
“我已经好几年没有照管那张可爱的沙发了吗？”阿拉贝拉说，“而现在——”

‘Now she prefers somebody else. Well, sick people have these fancies, and must be humoured. When she’s well I shall go.’
“现在她更喜欢别人了。好吧，病人有这些幻想，必须保持幽默。等她好了我就走。

‘Never, never,’ Arabella exclaimed, madly inhaling her salts-bottle.
“从来没有，从来没有。”阿拉贝拉喊道，疯狂地吸着她的盐瓶。

‘Never be well or never go, Miss Briggs?’ the other said, with the same provoking good-nature. ‘Pooh—she will be well in a fortnight, when I shall go back to my little pupils at Queen’s Crawley, and to their mother, who is a great deal more sick than our friend. You need not be jealous about me, my dear Miss Briggs. I am a poor little girl without any friends, or any harm in me. I don’t want to supplant you in Miss Crawley’s good graces. She will forget me a week after I am gone: and her affection for you has been the work of years. Give me a little wine if you please, my dear Miss Briggs, and let us be friends. I’m sure I want friends.’
“布里格斯小姐，要么永远不舒服，要么永远不走？”另一个人带着同样令人恼火的好脾气说道。 “呸——两周后她就会康复，那时我将回到女王克劳利的小学生身边，还有他们的母亲身边，她的病比我们的朋友严重得多。你不必嫉妒我，亲爱的布里格斯小姐。我是一个可怜的小女孩，没有任何朋友，也没有任何伤害。我不想取代克劳利小姐对你的青睐。我走后一周她就会忘记我：她对你的感情是多年来的成果。亲爱的布里格斯小姐，请给我一点酒，让我们成为朋友。我确信我想要朋友。

The placable and soft-hearted Briggs speechlessly pushed out her hand at this appeal; but she felt the desertion most keenly for all that, and bitterly, bitterly moaned the fickleness of her Matilda. At the end of half an hour, the meal over, Miss Rebecca Sharp (for such, astonishing to state, is the name of her who has been described ingeniously as ‘the person’ hitherto), went upstairs again to her patient’s rooms, from which, with the most engaging politeness, she eliminated poor Firkin. ‘Thank you, Mrs. Firkin, that will quite do; how nicely you make it! I will ring when anything is wanted.’ ‘Thank you”; and Firkin came downstairs in a tempest of jealousy, only the more dangerous because she was forced to confine it in her own bosom.
听了她的恳求，心地软软的布里格斯无言地伸出了手。但尽管如此，她还是对被遗弃的感觉最为强烈，并痛苦地、痛苦地抱怨她的玛蒂尔达的反复无常。半小时后，用餐完毕，丽贝卡·夏普小姐（令人惊讶的是，这就是迄今为止被巧妙地描述为“那个人”的她的名字），再次上楼到她的病人房间，从她以最迷人的礼貌淘汰了可怜的菲尔金。 “谢谢你，弗金夫人，这就够了；”你做得多好啊！有什么需要我会打电话的。”“谢谢”；弗金带着嫉妒的狂风走下楼，这更加危险，因为她被迫把它限制在自己的怀里。

Could it be the tempest which, as she passed the landing of the first floor, blew open the drawing-room door? No; it was stealthily opened by the hand of Briggs. Briggs had been on the watch. Briggs too well heard the creaking Firkin descend the stairs, and the clink of the spoon and gruel-basin the neglected female carried.
难道是当她经过一楼楼梯平台时，暴风雨吹开了客厅的门？不;它是被布里格斯的手偷偷打开的。布里格斯一直在监视着。布里格斯清楚地听到了弗金嘎吱作响的走下楼梯的声音，以及被忽视的女人拿着勺子和稀粥盆的叮当声。

‘Well, Firkin?’ says she, as the other entered the apartment. ‘Well, Jane?’
“怎么样，弗金？”当对方走进公寓时，她说道。 “怎么样，简？”

‘Wuss and wuss, Miss B.,’ Firkin said, wagging her head.
“糟糕透了，B小姐，”菲尔金摇着头说道。

‘Is she not better then?’
“那她不是更好了吗？”

‘She never spoke but once, and I asked her if she felt a little more easy, and she told me to hold my stupid tongue. Oh, Miss B., I never thought to have seen this day!’ And the water-works again began to play.
“她只说过一次话，我问她是否感觉轻松一点，她让我闭嘴。”哦，B 小姐，我从来没有想过会看到这一天！”然后水厂又开始演奏了。

‘What sort of a person is this Miss Sharp, Firkin? I little thought, while enjoying my Christmas revels in the elegant home of my firm friends, the Reverend Lionel Delamere and his amiable lady, to find a stranger had taken my place in the affections of my dearest, my still dearest Matilda!’ Miss Briggs, it will be seen by her language, was of a literary and sentimental turn, and had once published a volume of poems—‘Trills of the Nightingale’—by subscription.
“夏普小姐是个什么样的人，弗金？我几乎没有想到，当我在我坚定的朋友莱昂内尔·德拉米尔牧师和他和蔼可亲的女士优雅的家中享受圣诞节狂欢时，却发现一个陌生人取代了我在我最亲爱的、我仍然最亲爱的玛蒂尔达的感情中的地位！”布里格斯小姐从她的语言就可以看出，她具有文学性和感伤性的倾向，曾出版过一本诗集——《夜莺的颤音》——以订阅的方式出版。

‘Miss B., they are all infatyated about that young woman,’ Firkin replied. ‘Sir Pitt wouldn’t have let her go, but he daredn’t refuse Miss Crawley anything. Mrs. Bute at the Rectory jist as bad—never happy out of her sight. The Capting quite wild about her. Mr. Crawley mortial jealous. Since Miss C. was took ill, she won’t have nobody near her but Miss Sharp, I can’t tell for where nor for why; and I think somethink has bewidged everybody.’
“B小姐，他们都迷恋那个年轻女子。”菲尔金回答道。皮特爵士不会放她走，但他也不敢拒绝克劳利小姐任何事情。教区长官邸的布特夫人也同样糟糕——离开她的视线就永远不快乐。上尉对她非常着迷。克劳利先生凡人嫉妒。自从C小姐生病以来，除了夏普小姐，她身边就没有任何人了，我不知道在哪里，也不知道为什么；我认为有些想法让每个人都感到困惑。

Rebecca passed that night in constant watching upon Miss Crawley; the next night the old lady slept so comfortably, that Rebecca had time for several hours’ comfortable repose herself on the sofa, at the foot of her patroness’s bed; very soon, Miss Crawley was so well that she sat up and laughed heartily at a perfect imitation of Miss Briggs and her grief, which Rebecca described to her. Briggs’ weeping snuffle, and her manner of using the handkerchief, were so completely rendered that Miss Crawley became quite cheerful, to the admiration of the doctors when they visited her, who usually found this worthy woman of the world, when the least sickness attacked her, under the most abject depression and terror of death.
那天晚上，丽贝卡一直注视着克劳利小姐。第二天晚上，老太太睡得很舒服，丽贝卡有时间在女主人床脚的沙发上舒服地休息了几个小时。很快，克劳利小姐的病就好多了，她坐起来，对丽贝卡向她描述的布里格斯小姐和她的悲伤的完美模仿而开怀大笑。布里格斯抽泣的鼻息和她使用手帕的方式都被完美地呈现出来，克劳利小姐变得非常高兴，这让去看望她的医生们钦佩不已，他们通常在最轻微的疾病发作时都会发现这个世界上有价值的女人她，处于最悲惨的抑郁和对死亡的恐惧之中。

Captain Crawley came every day, and received bulletins from Miss Rebecca respecting his aunt’s health. This improved so rapidly, that poor Briggs was allowed to see her patroness; and persons with tender hearts may imagine the smothered emotions of that sentimental female, and the affecting nature of the interview.
克劳利上尉每天都会来，并收到丽贝卡小姐关于他姨妈健康状况的通报。这种情况改善得如此之快，以至于可怜的布里格斯被允许去见她的赞助人。内心柔软的人可以想象那位多愁善感的女性压抑的情绪，以及采访的感人本质。

Miss Crawley liked to have Briggs in a good deal soon. Rebecca used to mimic her to her face with the most admirable gravity, thereby rendering the imitation doubly piquant to her worthy patroness.
克劳利小姐希望很快就能与布里格斯达成一笔好交易。丽贝卡常常以最令人钦佩的严肃表情模仿她，从而使她的模仿行为对她可敬的赞助人来说加倍辛辣。

The causes which had led to the deplorable illness of Miss Crawley, and her departure from her brother’s house in the country, were of such an unromantic nature that they are hardly fit to be explained in this genteel and sentimental novel. For how is it possible to hint of a delicate female, living in good society, that she ate and drank too much, and that a hot supper of lobsters profusely enjoyed at the Rectory was the reason of an indisposition which Miss Crawley herself persisted was solely attributable to the dampness of the weather? The attack was so sharp that Matilda—as his Reverence expressed it—was very nearly ‘off the hooks”; all the family were in a fever of expectation regarding the will, and Rawdon Crawley was making sure of at least forty thousand pounds before the commencement of the London season. Mr. Crawley sent over a choice parcel of tracts, to prepare her for the change from Vanity Fair and Park Lane for another world; but a good doctor from Southampton being called in in time, vanquished the lobster which was so nearly fatal to her, and gave her sufficient strength to enable her to return to London. The Baronet did not disguise his exceeding mortification at the turn which affairs took.
克劳利小姐得了重病，并离开了乡下哥哥的家，其原因实在是太不浪漫了，根本不适合在这部温文尔雅、感伤的小说中加以解释。因为怎么可能暗示一个生活在上流社会的娇弱女性，她吃得太多，喝得太多，在教区长官邸享用了一顿热腾腾的龙虾晚餐，是克劳利小姐本人坚持认为的身体不适的原因？是天气潮湿的原因吗？这次攻击如此猛烈，以至于玛蒂尔达——正如他的尊敬所言——几乎“摆脱困境”；所有的家人都对这份遗嘱充满了热切的期待，罗登·克劳利在伦敦赛季开始之前确保至少有四万英镑。克劳利先生送来了一批精选的单张，让她为从《名利场》和《公园巷》走向另一个世界的转变做好准备；但南安普敦的一位好医生及时赶来，战胜了那只几乎要了她的命的龙虾，并给了她足够的力量，使她能够返回伦敦。男爵毫不掩饰他对事态发展的极度屈辱。

While everybody was attending on Miss Crawley, and messengers every hour from the Rectory were carrying news of her health to the affectionate folks there, there was a lady in another part of the house, being exceedingly ill, of whom no one took any notice at all; and this was the lady of Crawley herself. The good doctor shook his head after seeing her; to which visit Sir Pitt consented, as it could be paid without a fee; and she was left fading away in her lonely chamber, with no more heed paid to her than to a weed in the park.
当每个人都在照顾克劳利小姐，教区长每小时都有信使向那里热情的人们传达她的健康消息时，房子的另一部分有一位女士，病得很重，没有人注意到她。全部;这就是克劳利的夫人本人。好心的医生看了她一眼，摇了摇头；皮特爵士同意了这次访问，因为可以免费访问；她被留在她孤独的房间里，渐渐消失，人们对她的关注就像公园里的一棵杂草一样。

The young ladies, too, lost much of the inestimable benefit of their governess’s instruction, So affectionate a nurse was Miss Sharp, that Miss Crawley would take her medicines from no other hand. Firkin had been deposed long before her mistress’s departure from the country. That faithful attendant found a gloomy consolation on returning to London, in seeing Miss Briggs suffer the same pangs of jealousy and undergo the same faithless treatment to which she herself had been subject.
年轻的女士们也失去了家庭女教师指导带来的许多不可估量的好处。夏普小姐是一位如此热情的护士，克劳利小姐不会从其他人手中拿药。菲尔金早在她的情妇出国之前就被废黜了。这位忠实的侍从在返回伦敦后找到了一种令人沮丧的安慰，因为她看到布里格斯小姐遭受着同样的嫉妒痛苦，并遭受着她自己所遭受的同样不忠实的对待。

Captain Rawdon got an extension of leave on his aunt’s illness, and remained dutifully at home. He was always in her antechamber. (She lay sick in the state bedroom, into which you entered by the little blue saloon.) His father was always meeting him there; or if he came down the corridor ever so quietly, his father’s door was sure to open, and the hyena face of the old gentleman to glare out. What was it set one to watch the other so? A generous rivalry, no doubt, as to which should be most attentive to the dear sufferer in the state bedroom. Rebecca used to come out and comfort both of them; or one or the other of them rather. Both of these worthy gentlemen were most anxious to have news of the invalid from her little confidential messenger.
罗登上尉因姨妈生病而延长了假期，并尽职尽责地留在家里。他总是在她的前厅里。 （她病倒在豪华卧室里，你是从蓝色小沙龙进入的。） 他的父亲总是在那里接他；或者，如果他悄悄地沿着走廊走来，他父亲的门肯定会打开，老绅士那张鬣狗般的脸一定会怒视而出。到底是什么让一个人如此注视另一个人呢？毫无疑问，一场慷慨的竞争，谁应该最关心国事卧室里亲爱的受害者。丽贝卡常常出来安慰他们俩。或者更确切地说是其中之一。这两位可敬的绅士都非常渴望从她的小密使那里得到病人的消息。

At dinner—to which meal she descended for half an hour—she kept the peace between them: after which she disappeared for the night; when Rawdon would ride over to the depot of the 150th at Mudbury, leaving his papa to the society of Mr. Horrocks and his rum and water. She passed as weary a fortnight as ever mortal spent in Miss Crawley’s sick-room; but her little nerves seemed to be of iron, as she was quite unshaken by the duty and the tedium of the sickchamber.
晚餐时——她在这顿饭上吃了半个小时——她保持了他们之间的平静；之后她就消失了一夜。那时，罗登会骑马前往位于马德伯里的第 150 团的兵站，把他的爸爸留给霍罗克斯先生和他的朗姆酒和水。她在克劳利小姐的病房里度过了和凡人一样疲惫的两个星期。但她的小神经似乎是钢铁般的，因为她对病房的职责和单调乏味毫不动摇。

She never told until long afterwards how painful that duty was; how peevish a patient was the jovial old lady; how angry; how sleepless; in what horrors of death; during what long nights she lay moaning, and in almost delirious agonies respecting that future world which she quite ignored when she was in good health.—Picture to yourself, oh fair young reader, a worldly, selfish, graceless, thankless, religionless old woman, writhing in pain and fear, and without her wig. Picture her to yourself, and ere you be old, learn to love and pray!
直到很久以后，她才告诉我这个职责是多么痛苦。这位快活的老太太是个多么脾气暴躁的病人啊！多么生气啊！多么失眠啊！死亡是多么可怕；在那些漫漫长夜里，她躺着呻吟，在近乎疯狂的痛苦中面对着未来的世界，当她身体健康时，她完全忽视了这个世界。——想象一下，哦，美丽的年轻读者，一个世俗的、自私的、粗鲁的、忘恩负义的、没有宗教信仰的老妇人，在痛苦和恐惧中翻滚，没有戴假发。想象一下她的样子，在你变老之前，学会爱和祈祷！

Sharp watched this graceless bedside with indomitable patience. Nothing escaped her; and, like a prudent steward, she found a use for everything. She told many a good story about Miss Crawley’s illness in after days—stories which made the lady blush through her artificial carnations. During the illness she was never out of temper; always alert; she slept light, having a perfectly clear conscience; and could take that refreshment at almost any minute’s warning. And so you saw very few traces of fatigue in her appearance. Her face might be a trifle paler, and the circles round her eyes a little blacker than usual; but whenever she came out from the sick-room she was always smiling, fresh, and neat, and looked as trim in her little dressing-gown and cap, as in her smartest evening suit.
夏普以不屈不挠的耐心注视着这不优雅的床边。没有什么能逃过她的眼睛；而且，就像一个谨慎的管家一样，她找到了每样东西的用处。几天后，她给克劳利小姐讲了很多关于她生病的好故事——这些故事让这位女士透过她的人造康乃馨脸红了。生病期间，她从来没有发过脾气。时刻保持警惕；她睡得很轻，问心无愧。几乎随时都可以享用茶点。所以你在她的外表上看不到任何疲倦的痕迹。她的脸色可能比平常更苍白了一些，眼圈也比平常更黑了一些。但每当她从病房出来时，她总是面带微笑，神采奕奕，整洁，穿着小晨衣，戴着帽子，看上去就像穿着最漂亮的晚礼服一样整洁。

The Captain thought so, and raved about her in uncouth convulsions. The barbed shaft of love had penetrated his dull hide. Six weeks— appropinquity—opportunity—had victimised him completely. He made a confidante of his aunt at the Rectory, of all persons in the world. She rallied him about it; she had perceived his folly; she warned him; she finished by owning that little Sharp was the most clever, droll, odd, good-natured, simple, kindly creature in England. Rawdon must not trifle with her affections, though—dear Miss Crawley would never pardon him for that; for she, too, was quite overcome by the little governess, and loved Sharp like a daughter. Rawdon must go away—go back to his regiment and naughty London, and not play with a poor artless girl’s feelings.
船长是这么想的，粗鲁地抽搐着，对她赞不绝口。爱的刺刺刺穿了他暗淡的皮肤。六个星期——适当——机会——让他彻底受害。他成了他在教区长官邸的姨妈以及世界上所有人的知己。她为此团结了他；她已经看出了他的愚蠢；她警告他；最后，她承认小夏普是英国最聪明、最滑稽、最古怪、最善良、最简单、最善良的生物。不过，罗登决不能玩弄她的感情——亲爱的克劳利小姐永远不会因此而原谅他。因为她也被这个小家庭女教师深深地迷住了，她像女儿一样爱夏普。罗登必须离开——回到他的军团和顽皮的伦敦，而不是玩弄一个可怜的天真的女孩的感情。

Many and many a time this good-natured lady, compassionating the forlorn life-guardsman’s condition, gave him an opportunity of seeing Miss Sharp at the Rectory, and of walking home with her, as we have seen. When men of a certain sort, ladies, are in love, though they see the hook and the string, and the whole apparatus with which they are to be taken, they gorge the bait nevertheless— they must come to it—they must swallow it—and are presently struck and landed gasping. Rawdon saw there was a manifest intention on Mrs. Bute’s part to captivate him with Rebecca. He was not very wise; but he was a man about town, and had seen several seasons. A light dawned upon his dusky soul, as he thought, through a speech of Mrs. Bute’s.
很多次，这位好心的女士同情这位孤独的救生员的处境，给了他在教区长官邸见到夏普小姐的机会，并和她一起走回家，正如我们所看到的。当某种类型的男人、女士们坠入爱河时，尽管他们看到了钩子和绳子，以及用来诱骗他们的整个装置，但他们还是狼吞虎咽地吃下了诱饵——他们必须接近它——他们必须吞下它——现在被击中，气喘吁吁地着陆。罗登看出布特夫人明显有意用丽贝卡迷住他。他不太聪明；但他是城里人，见过好几个季节。正如他所想，通过布特夫人的演讲，他昏暗的灵魂中出现了一丝曙光。

‘Mark my words, Rawdon,’ she said. ‘You will have Miss Sharp one day for your relation.’
“记住我的话，罗登，”她说。 “有一天，夏普小姐会成为你的亲戚。”

‘What relation—my cousin, hey, Mrs. Bute? James sweet on her, hey?’ inquired the waggish officer.
“什么关系——我的表弟，嘿，布特夫人？”詹姆斯对她很满意，嘿？”那位滑稽的警官问道。

‘More than that,’ Mrs. Bute said, with a flash from her black eyes.
“不仅如此，”布特夫人说道，她的黑眼睛里闪着光芒。

‘Not Pitt? He sha’n’t have her. The sneak a’n’t worthy of her. He’s booked to Lady Jane Sheepshanks.’
“不是皮特吗？他不会拥有她。这种偷偷摸摸的行为不值得她。他已经预订给简·希普香克斯女士了。

‘You men perceive nothing. You silly, blind creature—if anything happens to Lady Crawley, Miss Sharp will be your mother-in-law; and that’s what will happen.’
‘你们这些人什么也察觉不到。你这个愚蠢又盲目的生物——如果克劳利夫人出了什么事，夏普小姐就会成为你的婆婆；这就是将会发生的事情。

Rawdon Crawley, Esquire, gave vent to a prodigious whistle, in token of astonishment at this announcement. He couldn’t deny it. His father’s evident liking for Miss Sharp had not escaped him. He knew the old gentleman’s character well; and a more unscrupulous old— whyou—he did not conclude the sentence, but walked home, curling his mustachios, and convinced he had found a clue to Mrs. Bute’s mystery.
罗登·克劳利，《绅士》，吹响了一声惊人的口哨，以示对这一消息的惊讶。他无法否认。他父亲对夏普小姐的明显喜爱并没有逃过他的视线。他很了解老先生的性格。还有一个更肆无忌惮的老人——为什么——他没有结束这句话，而是一边走回家，一边卷着小胡子，确信自己找到了解开比特夫人之谜的线索。

‘By Jove, it’s too bad,’ thought Rawdon, ‘too bad, by Jove! I do believe the woman wants the poor girl to be ruined, in order that she shouldn’t come into the family as Lady Crawley.’
“天哪，这太糟糕了，”罗登想，“天哪，太糟糕了！”我确实相信这个女人希望这个可怜的女孩被毁掉，这样她就不会以克劳利夫人的身份进入这个家庭。

When he saw Rebecca alone, he rallied her about his father’s attachment in his graceful way. She flung up her head scornfully, looked him full in the face, and said,
当他看到丽贝卡独自一人时，他以优雅的方式让她重新认识了父亲的依恋。她轻蔑地抬起头，直视着他的脸，说道：

‘Well, suppose he is fond of me. I know he is, and others too. You don’t think I am afraid of him, Captain Crawley? You don’t suppose I can’t defend my own honour,’ said the little woman, looking as stately as a queen.
“好吧，假设他喜欢我。我知道他是，其他人也是。你不认为我害怕他吗，克劳利船长？你不会认为我无法捍卫自己的荣誉吧。”小女人说道，她看上去像女王一样庄严。

‘Oh, ah, why—give you fair warning—look out, you know—that’s all,’ said the mustachio-twiddler.
“哦，啊，为什么——给你一个公平的警告——小心，你知道——就这样了，”留着小胡子的家伙说。

‘You hint at something not honourable, then?’ said she, flashing out.
“那么，你是在暗示一些不光彩的事情吗？”她突然说道。

‘O Gad—really—Miss Rebecca,’ the heavy dragoon interposed.
“哦，加德——真的——丽贝卡小姐，”重型龙骑兵插话道。

‘Do you suppose I have no feeling of self-respect, because I am poor and friendless, and because rich people have none? Do you think, because I am a governess, I have not as much sense, and feeling, and good breeding as you gentlefolks in Hampshire? I’m a Montmorency. Do you suppose a Montmorency is not as good as a Crawley?’
‘你认为我没有自尊感吗，因为我贫穷又没有朋友，而富人则没有自尊感？你是否认为，因为我是一名家庭教师，我就没有你们汉普郡的绅士们那么多的理智、感情和良好的教养？我是蒙莫朗西人。你认为蒙莫朗西不如克劳利吗？

When Miss Sharp was agitated, and alluded to her maternal relatives, she spoke with ever so slight a foreign accent, which gave a great charm to her clear ringing voice. ‘No,’ she continued, kindling as she spoke to the Captain; ‘I can endure poverty, but not shame— neglect, but not insult; and insult from—from you.’
当夏普小姐激动时，提到她的母亲亲戚时，她说话时带着一点外国口音，这给她清亮响亮的声音增添了极大的魅力。 “不，”她继续说道，对船长说话时情绪激动。 “我可以忍受贫穷，但不能忍受羞辱；我可以忍受忽视，但不能忍受侮辱；以及来自——来自你的侮辱。”

Her feelings gave way, and she burst into tears.
她的感情崩溃了，她泪流满面。

‘Hang it, Miss Sharp—Rebecca—by Jove—upon my soul, I wouldn’t for a thousand pounds. Stop, Rebecca!’
“把它挂在我的灵魂上，夏普小姐——丽贝卡——天哪——我不会花一千英镑。”停下来，丽贝卡！’

She was gone. She drove out with Miss Crawley that day. It was before the latter’s illness. At dinner she was unusually brilliant and lively; but she would take no notice of the hints, or the nods, or the clumsy expostulations of the humiliated, infatuated guardsman. Skirmishes of this sort passed perpetually during the little campaign—tedious to relate, and similar in result. The Crawley heavy cavalry was maddened by defeat, and routed every day.
她走了。那天她和克劳利小姐一起开车出去。那是在后者患病之前。晚餐时，她异常聪明、活泼。但她不会理睬这位受羞辱、痴情的卫兵的暗示、点头或笨拙的劝告。在这场小战役中，类似的小冲突不断发生——叙述起来很乏味，但结果却相似。克劳利重骑兵因失败而疯狂，连日溃败。

If the Baronet of Queen’s Crawley had not had the fear of losing his sister’s legacy before his eyes, he never would have permitted his dear girls to lose the educational blessings which their invaluable governess was conferring upon them. The old house at home seemed a desert without her, so useful and pleasant had Rebecca made herself there. Sir Pitt’s letters were not copied and corrected; his books not made up; his household business and manifold schemes neglected, now that his little secretary was away. And it was easy to see how necessary such an amanuensis was to him, by the tenor and spelling of the numerous letters which he sent to her, entreating her and commanding her to return. Almost every day brought a frank from the Baronet, enclosing the most urgent prayers to Becky for her return, or conveying pathetic statements to Miss Crawley, regarding the neglected state of his daughters’ education; of which documents Miss Crawley took very little heed.
如果女王克劳利男爵没有担心自己会失去妹妹的遗产，他绝不会允许他亲爱的女儿们失去无价的家庭女教师赋予她们的教育祝福。没有了她，家里的老房子就像一片沙漠，丽贝卡让自己呆在那里是如此有用和令人愉快。皮特爵士的信件没有被复制和更正；他的书没有编造；由于他的小秘书不在，他的家务和各种计划都被忽视了。从他寄给她的无数封信的语气和拼写来看，很容易看出这样一个抄写员对他来说是多么必要，恳求她并命令她回来。几乎每天都会有男爵的一封坦白信，附上对贝基归来的最迫切的祈祷，或者向克劳利小姐传达关于他女儿们的教育被忽视的状况的可怜的陈述；克劳利小姐对这些文件很少留意。

Miss Briggs was not formally dismissed, but her place as companion was a sinecure and a derision; and her company was the fat spaniel in the drawing-room, or occasionally the discontented Firkin in the housekeeper’s closet. Nor though the old lady would by no means hear of Rebecca’s departure, was the latter regularly installed in office in Park Lane. Like many wealthy people, it was Miss Crawley’s habit to accept as much service as she could get from her inferiors; and good-naturedly to take leave of them when she no longer found them useful. Gratitude among certain rich folks is scarcely natural or to be thought of. They take needy people’s services as their due. Nor have you, O poor parasite and humble hanger-on, much reason to complain! Your friendship for Dives is about as sincere as the return which it usually gets. It is money you love, and not the man; and were Croesus and his footman to change places you know, you poor rogue, who would have the benefit of your allegiance.
布里格斯小姐并没有被正式解雇，但她作为同伴的地位却是一种闲职和嘲笑。陪伴她的是客厅里那只肥胖的西班牙猎犬，或者偶尔是管家衣柜里不满的菲尔金。尽管老太太绝不会听说丽贝卡离开的消息，但丽贝卡却经常被安置在公园巷的办公室里。像许多富有的人一样，克劳利小姐的习惯是尽可能多地接受下级的服务。当她发现它们不再有用时，她会善意地告别它们。某些富人的感激之情几乎是不自然的，也不值得考虑。他们把为有需要的人提供服务视为应得的。哦，可怜的寄生虫和卑微的食客，你也没有太多的理由抱怨！你对戴夫斯的友谊与通常得到的回报一样真诚。你爱的是钱，而不是人；如果克洛伊索斯和他的仆人改变位置，你知道，你这个可怜的流氓，你会受益于你的效忠。

And I am not sure that, in spite of Rebecca’s simplicity and activity, and gentleness and untiring good humour, the shrewd old London lady, upon whom these treasures of friendship were lavished, had not a lurking suspicion all the while of her affectionate nurse and friend. It must have often crossed Miss Crawley’s mind that nobody does anything for nothing. If she measured her own feeling towards the world, she must have been pretty well able to gauge those of the world towards herself; and perhaps she reflected that it is the ordinary lot of people to have no friends if they themselves care for nobody.
我不确定，尽管丽贝卡性格单纯，活泼，温柔，幽默，这位精明的伦敦老太太，在她身上浪费了这些友谊的宝藏，但她是否一直对她深情的保姆和母亲抱有潜在的怀疑。朋友。克劳利小姐一定经常想到，没有人会无缘无故地做任何事。如果她衡量自己对世界的感受，她一定也能很好地衡量世界对她的感受；也许她反映，如果自己不关心任何人，那么普通人就没有朋友。

Well, meanwhile Becky was the greatest comfort and convenience to her, and she gave her a couple of new gowns, and an old necklace and shawl, and showed her friendship by abusing all her intimate acquaintances to her new confidante (than which there can’t be a more touching proof of regard), and meditated vaguely some great future benefit—to marry her perhaps to Clump, the apothecary, or to settle her in some advantageous way of life; or at any rate, to send her back to Queen’s Crawley when she had done with her, and the full London season had begun.
好吧，与此同时，贝基对她来说是最大的安慰和便利，她给了她几件新礼服，一条旧项链和披肩，并通过向她的新红颜知己虐待她所有的亲密熟人来表达她的友谊（比这更不可能）这是一个更感人的尊重的证明），并模糊地沉思着一些未来的伟大利益——也许把她嫁给药剂师克伦普，或者让她过上某种有利的生活方式；或者无论如何，当她处理完她之后将她送回女王克劳利，整个伦敦赛季已经开始。

When Miss Crawley was convalescent and descended to the drawingroom, Becky sang to her, and otherwise amused her; when she was well enough to drive out, Becky accompanied her. And amongst the drives which they took, whither, of all places in the world, did Miss Crawley’s admirable good-nature and friendship actually induce her to penetrate, but to Russell Square, Bloomsbury, and the house of John Sedley, Esquire.
当克劳利小姐康复并下楼到客厅时，贝基给她唱歌，或者逗她开心。当她康复后可以开车出去时，贝基陪着她。在他们开车前往世界各地的途中，克劳利小姐令人钦佩的善良和友谊实际上诱使她深入，但除了罗素广场、布卢姆斯伯里和《绅士》约翰·塞德利的房子。

Ere that event, many notes had passed, as may be imagined, between the two dear friends. During the months of Rebecca’s stay in Hampshire, the eternal friendship had (must it be owned?) suffered considerable diminution, and grown so decrepit and feeble with old age as to threaten demise altogether. The fact is, both girls had their own real affairs to think of: Rebecca her advance with her employers—Amelia her own absorbing topic. When the two girls met, and flew into each other’s arms with that impetuosity which distinguishes the behaviour of young ladies towards each other, Rebecca performed her part of the embrace with the most perfect briskness and energy. Poor little Amelia blushed as she kissed her friend, and thought she had been guilty of something very like coldness towards her.
在那次活动之前，可以想象，这两位亲爱的朋友之间已经传递了许多信息。丽贝卡在汉普郡逗留的几个月里，永恒的友谊（必须拥有吗？） 遭受了相当大的削弱，并且随着年老而变得如此衰老和衰弱，以至于有完全消亡的危险。事实上，两个女孩都有自己真正的事情要考虑：丽贝卡向她的雇主提亲——阿米莉亚是她自己引人入胜的话题。当两个女孩相遇并以年轻女士对待彼此的行为所特有的冲动投入对方怀抱时，丽贝卡以最完美的轻快和精力表演了她的拥抱部分。可怜的小阿米莉亚在亲吻她的朋友时脸红了，她认为自己对她的冷淡感到内疚。

Their first interview was but a very short one. Amelia was just ready to go out for a walk. Miss Crawley was waiting in her carriage below, her people wondering at the locality in which they found themselves, and gazing upon honest Sambo, the black footman of Bloomsbury, as one of the queer natives of the place. But when Amelia came down with her kind smiling looks (Rebecca must introduce her to her friend, Miss Crawley was longing to see her, and was too ill to leave her carriage)—when, I say, Amelia came down, the Park Lane shoulder-knot aristocracy wondered more and more that such a thing could come out of Bloomsbury; and Miss Crawley was fairly captivated by the sweet blushing face of the young lady who came forward so timidly and so gracefully to pay her respects to the protector of her friend.
他们的第一次采访很短。阿米莉亚正准备出去散步。克劳利小姐正在下面的马车里等着，她的人民对他们所处的地方感到好奇，并凝视着诚实的桑博，布卢姆斯伯里的黑人男仆，作为这个地方的奇怪土著之一。但是当阿米莉亚带着她和蔼的微笑走下来时（丽贝卡必须把她介绍给她的朋友，克劳利小姐很想见她，而且病得很重，不能离开她的马车）——我说，当阿米莉亚走下来时，公园巷的肩膀——结界贵族越来越怀疑布卢姆斯伯里能出这样的东西；克劳利小姐被这位年轻女士那张甜美的红润脸庞迷住了，她如此胆怯而优雅地走上前来，向她朋友的保护者表示敬意。

‘What a complexion, my dear! What a sweet voice!’ Miss Crawley said, as they drove away westward after the little interview. ‘My dear Sharp, your young friend is charming. Send for her to Park Lane, do you hear?’ Miss Crawley had a good taste. She liked natural manners—a little timidity only set them off. She liked pretty faces near her; as she liked pretty pictures and nice china. She talked of Amelia with rapture half a dozen times that day. She mentioned her to Rawdon Crawley, who came dutifully to partake of his aunt’s chicken.
‘亲爱的，这脸色多好啊！多么甜美的声音啊！”克劳利小姐在简短的采访结束后驱车向西行驶时说道。 “我亲爱的夏普，你的年轻朋友很迷人。派人把她叫到公园巷，听到了吗？” 克劳利小姐的品味很好。她喜欢自然的举止——一点点胆怯只会让他们感到不舒服。她喜欢靠近她的漂亮面孔；因为她喜欢漂亮的图画和漂亮的瓷器。那天她兴高采烈地谈论阿米莉亚六次。她向罗登·克劳利提到了她，克劳利尽职尽责地过来吃他姨妈做的鸡肉。

Of course, on this Rebecca instantly stated that Amelia was engaged to be married—to a Lieutenant Osborne—a very old flame.
当然，丽贝卡立即表示，阿米莉亚已经与一位非常老的情人订婚了——嫁给了奥斯本中尉。

‘Is he a man in a line-regiment?’ Captain Crawley asked, remembering after an effort, as became a guardsman, the number of the regiment, the —th.
“他是一个战列团的人吗？”克劳利上尉问道，在成为一名卫兵后，他努力回忆起该团的编号，第——号。

Rebecca thought that was the regiment. ‘The Captain’s name,’ she said, ‘was Captain Dobbin.’
丽贝卡以为那是军团。 “船长的名字，”她说，“是多宾船长。”

‘A lanky gawky fellow,’ said Crawley, ‘tumbles over everybody. I know him; and Osborne’s a goodish-looking fellow, with large black whiskers?’
“一个又瘦又笨的家伙，”克劳利说，“压倒所有人。”我认识他;奥斯本是个长相英俊的家伙，留着黑色的大胡子？

‘Enormous,’ Miss Rebecca Sharp said, ‘and enormously proud of them, I assure you.’
“巨大，”丽贝卡·夏普小姐说，“我向你保证，我为他们感到无比自豪。”

Captain Rawdon Crawley burst into a horse-laugh by way of reply; and being pressed by the ladies to explain, did so when the explosion of hilarity was over. ‘He fancies he can play at billiards,’ said he. ‘I won two hundred of him at the Cocoa-Tree. HE play, the young flat! He’d have played for anything that day, but his friend Captain Dobbin carried him off, hang him!’
罗登·克劳利上尉突然哈哈大笑作为回答。在女士们的催促下，当欢闹结束后，她们才解释。 “他希望自己能打台球，”他说。 “我在可可树赢了他两百个。”他玩，年轻的公寓！那天他愿意为任何事情而战，但他的朋友多宾船长把他带走了，绞死他！

‘Rawdon, Rawdon, don’t be so wicked,’ Miss Crawley remarked, highly pleased.
“罗登，罗登，别这么邪恶，”克劳利小姐非常高兴地说。

‘Why, ma’am, of all the young fellows I’ve seen out of the line, I think this fellow’s the greenest. Tarquin and Deuceace get what money they like out of him. He’d go to the deuce to be seen with a lord. He pays their dinners at Greenwich, and they invite the company.’
“为什么，女士，在我见过的所有年轻人中，我认为这个家伙是最年轻的。”塔奎因和杜斯从他那里得到他们想要的钱。他会去见见一位领主。他支付他们在格林威治的晚餐费用，他们邀请了公司。

‘And very pretty company too, I dare say.’
“我敢说，还有非常漂亮的同伴。”

‘Quite right, Miss Sharp. Right, as usual, Miss Sharp. Uncommon pretty company—haw, haw!’ and the Captain laughed more and more, thinking he had made a good joke.
“完全正确，夏普小姐。好的，像往常一样，夏普小姐。难得的好伙伴——哈，哈！”船长笑得越来越开心，以为自己开了一个好玩笑。

‘Rawdon, don’t be naughty!’ his aunt exclaimed.
“罗登，别淘气！”他的姨妈喊道。

‘Well, his father’s a City man—immensely rich, they say. Hang those City fellows, they must bleed; and I’ve not done with him yet, I can tell you. Haw, haw!’
“嗯，他的父亲是城里人——他们说非常富有。绞死那些城里的家伙，他们必须流血；我可以告诉你，我和他的关系还没有结束。哈哈，哈哈！

‘Fie, Captain Crawley; I shall warn Amelia. A gambling husband!’
“呸，克劳利船长；我会警告阿米莉亚。一个赌博的丈夫！

‘Horrid, ain’t he, hey?’ the Captain said with great solemnity; and then added, a sudden thought having struck him: ‘Gad, I say, ma’am, we’ll have him here.’
“他很可怕，不是吗？”船长非常严肃地说。然后他突然想到：“嘎德，我说，女士，我们会让他在这里的。”

‘Is he a presentable sort of a person?’ the aunt inquired.
“他是一个像样的人吗？”阿姨问道。

‘Presentable?—oh, very well. You wouldn’t see any difference,’ Captain Crawley answered. ‘Do let’s have him, when you begin to see a few people; and his whatdyecallem—his inamorato—eh, Miss Sharp; that’s what you call it—comes. Gad, I’ll write him a note, and have him; and I’ll try if he can play piquet as well as billiards. Where does he live, Miss Sharp?’
“体面吗？——哦，很好。你看不出有什么不同，”克劳利船长回答道。 ‘当你开始见到几个人时，就让我们拥有他吧；还有他的什么——他的情人——呃，夏普小姐；这就是你所说的——来了。盖德，我会给他写张便条，然后邀请他；我会尝试一下他是否能像打台球一样打皮球。夏普小姐，他住在哪里？

Miss Sharp told Crawley the Lieutenant’s town address; and a few days after this conversation, Lieutenant Osborne received a letter, in Captain Rawdon’s schoolboy hand, and enclosing a note of invitation from Miss Crawley.
夏普小姐告诉克劳利中尉的镇地址；这次谈话几天后，奥斯本中尉收到了罗登上尉的学童手中的一封信，其中附有克劳利小姐的邀请函。

Rebecca despatched also an invitation to her darling Amelia, who, you may be sure, was ready enough to accept it when she heard that George was to be of the party. It was arranged that Amelia was to spend the morning with the ladies of Park Lane, where all were very kind to her. Rebecca patronised her with calm superiority: she was so much the cleverer of the two, and her friend so gentle and unassuming, that she always yielded when anybody chose to command, and so took Rebecca’s orders with perfect meekness and good humour. Miss Crawley’s graciousness was also remarkable. She continued her raptures about little Amelia, talked about her before her face as if she were a doll, or a servant, or a picture, and admired her with the most benevolent wonder possible. I admire that admiration which the genteel world sometimes extends to the commonalty. There is no more agreeable object in life than to see Mayfair folks condescending. Miss Crawley’s prodigious benevolence rather fatigued poor little Amelia, and I am not sure that of the three ladies in Park Lane she did not find honest Miss Briggs the most agreeable. She sympathised with Briggs as with all neglected or gentle people: she wasn’t what you call a woman of spirit.
丽贝卡还向她亲爱的阿米莉亚发出了邀请，你可以肯定，当她听说乔治要参加聚会时，她已经准备好接受邀请了。按照安排，阿米莉亚要和公园巷的女士们一起度过一个上午，那里的女士们对她都非常友善。丽贝卡以冷静的优越感居高临下地对待她：她是两个人中最聪明的一个，而她的朋友又如此温柔谦逊，当有人选择发号施令时，她总是屈服，因此以完美的温顺和幽默接受丽贝卡的命令。克劳利小姐的仁慈也令人瞩目。她继续对小阿米莉亚感到着迷，当着她的面谈论她，就好像她是一个洋娃娃，一个仆人，或者一幅画，并以最仁慈的奇迹来欣赏她。我很欣赏上流社会有时也会向普通民众表达的钦佩之情。生活中没有比看到梅费尔人居高临下更令人愉快的事情了。克劳利小姐的惊人仁慈让可怜的小阿米莉亚感到疲惫不堪，我不确定在公园巷的三位女士中，她是否不觉得诚实的布里格斯小姐最令人愉快。她同情布里格斯，就像同情所有被忽视或温柔的人一样：她不是你所谓的有精神的女人。

George came to dinner—a repast en garcon with Captain Crawley.
乔治来吃晚饭——与克劳利船长共进晚餐。

The great family coach of the Osbornes transported him to Park Lane from Russell Square; where the young ladies, who were not themselves invited, and professed the greatest indifference at that slight, nevertheless looked at Sir Pitt Crawley’s name in the baronetage; and learned everything which that work had to teach about the Crawley family and their pedigree, and the Binkies, their relatives, &c., &c. Rawdon Crawley received George Osborne with great frankness and graciousness: praised his play at billiards: asked him when he would have his revenge: was interested about Osborne’s regiment: and would have proposed piquet to him that very evening, but Miss Crawley absolutely forbade any gambling in her house; so that the young Lieutenant’s purse was not lightened by his gallant patron, for that day at least. However, they made an engagement for the next, somewhere: to look at a horse that Crawley had to sell, and to try him in the Park; and to dine together, and to pass the evening with some jolly fellows. ‘That is, if you’re not on duty to that pretty Miss Sedley,’ Crawley said, with a knowing wink. ‘Monstrous nice girl, ‘pon my honour, though, Osborne,’ he was good enough to add. ‘Lots of tin, I suppose, eh?’
奥斯本家族伟大的家庭教练将他从罗素广场运送到公园巷。年轻的女士们虽然没有受到邀请，但对这种轻视表现出极大的漠不关心，尽管如此，她们还是看到了男爵爵位上皮特·克劳利爵士的名字。并了解了这项工作所教的关于克劳利家族及其血统、宾基家族、他们的亲戚等等的一切。罗登·克劳利以极大的坦诚和亲切接待了乔治·奥斯本：赞扬了他的台球表现：问他什么时候会报仇：对奥斯本的军团感兴趣：并会在当天晚上向他提出赌注，但克劳利小姐绝对禁止任何赌博在她家里；这样一来，年轻中尉的钱包就不会因为他勇敢的赞助人而减轻，至少在那天是这样。然而，他们在某个地方约定了下一次：去看一匹克劳利必须卖掉的马，并在公园里试一试；一起吃饭，和一些快乐的朋友一起度过夜晚。 “也就是说，如果你不是为那位漂亮的塞德利小姐值班的话，”克劳利说，会意地眨了眨眼睛。 “不过，以我的名誉来说，奥斯本是个可怕的好女孩，”他很好地补充道。 “我想有很多锡，嗯？”

Osborne wasn’t on duty; he would join Crawley with pleasure: and the latter, when they met the next day, praised his new friend’s horsemanship—as he might with perfect honesty—and introduced him to three or four young men of the first fashion, whose acquaintance immensely elated the simple young officer.
奥斯本当时没有值班；他会很高兴地加入克劳利：而后者，当他们第二天见面时，赞扬了他的新朋友的马术——他可能非常诚实——并向他介绍了三四个一流的年轻人，他们的相识使克劳利非常高兴。简单的年轻军官。

‘How’s little Miss Sharp, by-the-bye?’ Osborne inquired of his friend over their wine, with a dandified air. ‘Good-natured little girl that. Does she suit you well at Queen’s Crawley? Miss Sedley liked her a good deal last year.’
“顺便说一句，夏普小小姐怎么样？”奥斯本一边喝着酒一边询问他的朋友，神态十分优雅。 '那个心地善良的小姑娘。她在女王克劳利很适合你吗？塞德利小姐去年非常喜欢她。

Captain Crawley looked savagely at the Lieutenant out of his little blue eyes, and watched him when he went up to resume his acquaintance with the fair governess. Her conduct must have relieved Crawley if there was any jealousy in the bosom of that life-guardsman.
克劳利上尉用他那双蓝色的小眼睛凶狠地看着中尉，当他走上前去重新认识这位美丽的家庭女教师时，他也注视着他。如果那个救生员心中有任何嫉妒的话，她的行为一定让克劳利松了口气。

When the young men went upstairs, and after Osborne’s introduction to Miss Crawley, he walked up to Rebecca with a patronising, easy swagger. He was going to be kind to her and protect her. He would even shake hands with her, as a friend of Amelia’s; and saying, ‘Ah, Miss Sharp! how-dy-doo?’ held out his left hand towards her, expecting that she would be quite confounded at the honour.
当年轻人上楼时，奥斯本向克劳利小姐做了介绍，然后他以居高临下、轻松自在的姿态走向丽贝卡。他会善待她，保护她。作为阿米莉亚的朋友，他甚至会和她握手。并说：‘啊，夏普小姐！ “怎么样？怎么样？”他向她伸出左手，预计她会因这一荣誉而感到困惑。

Miss Sharp put out her right forefinger, and gave him a little nod, so cool and killing, that Rawdon Crawley, watching the operations from the other room, could hardly restrain his laughter as he saw the Lieutenant’s entire discomfiture; the start he gave, the pause, and the perfect clumsiness with which he at length condescended to take the finger which was offered for his embrace.
夏普小姐伸出右手食指，对他轻轻点了点头，动作如此冷静而杀气腾腾，以致于在另一个房间观看行动的罗登·克劳利在看到中尉狼狈不堪的样子时几乎无法抑制自己的笑声。他吃了一惊，停顿了一下，最后他极其笨拙地屈尊握住了伸出来拥抱的手指。

‘She’d beat the devil, by Jove!’ the Captain said, in a rapture; and the Lieutenant, by way of beginning the conversation, agreeably asked Rebecca how she liked her new place.
“天啊，她打败了魔鬼！”船长欣喜若狂地说。中尉在谈话开始时，愉快地问丽贝卡她喜欢她的新地方。

‘My place?’ said Miss Sharp, coolly, ‘how kind of you to remind me of it! It’s a tolerably good place: the wages are pretty good—not so good as Miss Wirt’s, I believe, with your sisters in Russell Square. How are those young ladies?—not that I ought to ask.’
“我的住处？”夏普小姐冷冷地说，“你真好心提醒我！这是一个还算不错的地方：工资相当不错——我相信，不如沃特小姐和你在罗素广场的姐妹们的工资。那些年轻女士怎么样？——我不该问。”

‘Why not?’ Mr. Osborne said, amazed.
“为什么不呢？”奥斯本先生惊讶地说。

‘Why, they never condescended to speak to me, or to ask me into their house, whilst I was staying with Amelia; but we poor governesses, you know, are used to slights of this sort.’
“哎呀，当我和阿米莉亚住在一起的时候，他们从来没有屈尊与我说话，或者邀请我去他们家。但你知道，我们这些可怜的家庭女教师已经习惯了这种轻视。

‘My dear Miss Sharp!’ Osborne ejaculated.
“我亲爱的夏普小姐！”奥斯本喊道。

‘At least in some families,’ Rebecca continued. ‘You can’t think what a difference there is though. We are not so wealthy in Hampshire as you lucky folks of the City. But then I am in a gentleman’s family—good old English stock. I suppose you know Sir Pitt’s father refused a peerage. And you see how I am treated. I am pretty comfortable. Indeed it is rather a good place. But how very good of you to inquire!’
“至少在一些家庭中，”丽贝卡继续说道。 “但你无法想象其中有什么区别。我们汉普郡的人不像你们这些城里的幸运儿那么富有。但我却生活在一个绅士家庭——古老的英国血统。我想你知道皮特爵士的父亲拒绝授予贵族爵位。你也看到我受到的待遇了。我很舒服。确实这是一个比较好的地方。不过你能询问真是太好了！”

Osborne was quite savage. The little governess patronised him and persiffled him until this young British Lion felt quite uneasy; nor could he muster sufficient presence of mind to find a pretext for backing out of this most delectable conversation.
奥斯本相当野蛮。小女家庭教师对他居高临下，对他百般刁难，直到这头年轻的英国狮子感到非常不安。他也没有足够的冷静来寻找借口退出这场最愉快的谈话。

‘I thought you liked the City families pretty well,’ he said, haughtily.
“我以为你很喜欢金融城的家庭，”他傲慢地说。

‘Last year you mean, when I was fresh from that horrid vulgar school? Of course I did. Doesn’t every girl like to come home for the holidays? And how was I to know any better? But oh, Mr. Osborne, what a difference eighteen months’ experience makes! eighteen months spent, pardon me for saying so, with gentlemen. As for dear Amelia, she, I grant you, is a pearl, and would be charming anywhere. There now, I see you are beginning to be in a good humour; but oh these queer odd City people! And Mr. Jos—how is that wonderful Mr. Joseph?’
“你是说去年，当我刚从那所可怕的庸俗学校毕业时？我当然做了。每个女孩不是都喜欢回家过节吗？我怎样才能知道得更多呢？但是哦，奥斯本先生，十八个月的经历带来了多么大的变化啊！十八个月了，请原谅我和先生们这么说。至于亲爱的阿米莉亚，我向你保证，她是一颗珍珠，无论在哪里都会很迷人。现在，我看到你的心情开始变得很好；但是哦，这些奇怪的城市人！乔斯先生——约瑟夫先生怎么样？

‘It seems to me you didn’t dislike that wonderful Mr. Joseph last year,’ Osborne said kindly.
“在我看来，去年你并没有不喜欢那位出色的约瑟夫先生，”奥斯本和蔼地说。

‘How severe of you! Well, entre nous, I didn’t break my heart about him; yet if he had asked me to do what you mean by your looks (and very expressive and kind they are, too), I wouldn’t have said no.’
‘你真是太严厉了！好吧，说实话，我并没有为他伤心；我没有因为他而伤心。但如果他让我按照你的外表所说的去做（而且他们也非常富有表现力和友善），我不会拒绝。

Mr. Osborne gave a look as much as to say, ‘Indeed, how very obliging!’
奥斯本先生看了一眼，仿佛在说：“确实，真是太热心了！”

‘What an honour to have had you for a brother-in-law, you are thinking? To be sister-in-law to George Osborne, Esquire, son of John Osborne, Esquire, son of—what was your grandpapa, Mr. Osborne? Well, don’t be angry. You can’t help your pedigree, and I quite agree with you that I would have married Mr. Joe Sedley; for could a poor penniless girl do better? Now you know the whole secret. I’m frank and open; considering all things, it was very kind of you to allude to the circumstance—very kind and polite. Amelia dear, Mr. Osborne and I were talking about your poor brother Joseph. How is he?’
‘你想，有你这样的姐夫是多么荣幸啊？成为乔治·奥斯本先生的嫂子，约翰·奥斯本先生的儿子，约翰·奥斯本先生，你的祖父是谁的儿子，奥斯本先生？好吧，别生气。你无法控制你的血统，我非常同意你的观点，我会嫁给乔·塞德利先生；一个身无分文的可怜女孩能做得更好吗？现在你知道了全部秘密。我坦诚、开放；考虑到所有事情，你提到这个情况真是太好了——非常友善和礼貌。亲爱的阿米莉亚，奥斯本先生和我正在谈论你可怜的弟弟约瑟夫。他怎么样？'

Thus was George utterly routed. Not that Rebecca was in the right; but she had managed most successfully to put him in the wrong. And he now shamefully fled, feeling, if he stayed another minute, that he would have been made to look foolish in the presence of Amelia.
乔治就这样彻底溃败了。这并不是说丽贝卡是对的，而是说丽贝卡是对的。但她成功地让他陷入了错误的境地。现在他可耻地逃跑了，他觉得，如果他再多呆一分钟，他就会在阿米莉亚面前显得愚蠢。

Though Rebecca had had the better of him, George was above the meanness of talebearing or revenge upon a lady—only he could not help cleverly confiding to Captain Crawley, next day, some notions of his regarding Miss Rebecca—that she was a sharp one, a dangerous one, a desperate flirt, &c.; in all of which opinions Crawley agreed laughingly, and with every one of which Miss Rebecca was made acquainted before twenty-four hours were over. They added to her original regard for Mr. Osborne. Her woman’s instinct had told her that it was George who had interrupted the success of her first love-passage, and she esteemed him accordingly.
尽管丽贝卡占了他的上风，乔治却不会卑鄙地讲故事或报复一位女士——只是他第二天忍不住巧妙地向克劳利船长吐露了他对丽贝卡小姐的一些看法——她是一个敏锐的人。 ，危险的，绝望的调情，等等；克劳利笑着同意了所有这些观点，丽贝卡小姐在二十四小时结束之前就已经了解了所有这些观点。它们增加了她最初对奥斯本先生的敬意。她女人的本能告诉她，是乔治打断了她第一次爱情的成功，因此她尊重他。

‘I only just warn you,’ he said to Rawdon Crawley, with a knowing look—he had bought the horse, and lost some score of guineas after dinner, ‘I just warn you—I know women, and counsel you to be on the look-out.’
“我只是警告你，”他对罗登·克劳利说，脸上带着一种会意的表情——他买了那匹马，晚饭后丢了一些几尼，“我只是警告你——我了解女人，并建议你要了望。

‘Thank you, my boy,’ said Crawley, with a look of peculiar gratitude. ‘You’re wide awake, I see.’ And George went off, thinking Crawley was quite right.
“谢谢你，我的孩子，”克劳利说道，脸上带着一种特殊的感激之情。 “我明白了，你很清醒。”乔治认为克劳利说得很对，就走了。

He told Amelia of what he had done, and how he had counselled Rawdon Crawley—a devilish good, straightforward fellow—to be on his guard against that little sly, scheming Rebecca.
他告诉阿米莉亚他做了什么，以及他如何劝告罗登·克劳利——一个邪恶的善良、直率的家伙——要警惕那个狡猾、诡计多端的小丽贝卡。

‘Against whom?’ Amelia cried.
“针对谁？”阿米莉亚喊道。

‘Your friend the governess.—Don’t look so astonished.’
“你的家庭女教师朋友——别显得那么惊讶。”

‘O George, what have you done?’ Amelia said. For her woman’s eyes, which Love had made sharp-sighted, had in one instant discovered a secret which was invisible to Miss Crawley, to poor virgin Briggs, and above all, to the stupid peepers of that young whiskered prig, Lieutenant Osborne.
“噢，乔治，你做了什么？”阿米莉亚说。因为她女人的眼睛，被爱情变得敏锐，立刻就发现了一个秘密，而克劳利小姐、可怜的处女布里格斯，尤其是那个年轻、留着胡须的假正经的奥斯本中尉的愚蠢窥视者，都看不到这个秘密。

For as Rebecca was shawling her in an upper apartment, where these two friends had an opportunity for a little of that secret talking and conspiring which form the delight of female life, Amelia, coming up to Rebecca, and taking her two little hands in hers, said, ‘Rebecca, I see it all.’
当丽贝卡在楼上的公寓里给她披着披肩时，这两个朋友有机会进行一些秘密谈话和密谋，这构成了女性生活的乐趣，阿米莉亚走到丽贝卡面前，握住了她的两只小手。 ，说，“丽贝卡，我都看到了。”

Rebecca kissed her.
丽贝卡吻了她。

And regarding this delightful secret, not one syllable more was said by either of the young women. But it was destined to come out before long.
对于这个令人愉快的秘密，两位年轻女子都没有再多说一个字。但它注定要在不久之后问世。

Some short period after the above events, and Miss Rebecca Sharp still remaining at her patroness’s house in Park Lane, one more hatchment might have been seen in Great Gaunt Street, figuring amongst the many which usually ornament that dismal quarter. It was over Sir Pitt Crawley’s house; but it did not indicate the worthy baronet’s demise. It was a feminine hatchment, and indeed a few years back had served as a funeral compliment to Sir Pitt’s old mother, the late dowager Lady Crawley. Its period of service over, the hatchment had come down from the front of the house, and lived in retirement somewhere in the back premises of Sir Pitt’s mansion. It reappeared now for poor Rose Dawson. Sir Pitt was a widower again. The arms quartered on the shield along with his own were not, to be sure, poor Rose’s. She had no arms. But the cherubs painted on the scutcheon answered as well for her as for Sir Pitt’s mother, and Resurgam was written under the coat, flanked by the Crawley Dove and Serpent. Arms and Hatchments, Resurgam.—Here is an opportunity for moralising!
上述事件发生后不久，丽贝卡·夏普小姐仍留在她位于公园巷的女主人家中，在大冈特街可能又出现了一个舱口，这是通常装饰那个阴暗街区的众多舱口之一。就在皮特·克劳利爵士的房子上空。但这并不意味着这位可敬的准男爵已经去世。这是一个女性化的孵化器，事实上，几年前，它还被用作对皮特爵士的老母亲、已故太后克劳利夫人的葬礼致敬。服务期结束后，舱口从房子前面取下来，在皮特爵士宅邸后面的某个地方退休了。现在，它再次出现在可怜的罗丝·道森身上。皮特爵士再次成为鳏夫。可以肯定的是，他的手臂和盾牌上的手臂都不是可怜的罗斯的。她没有手臂。但标牌上画的小天使既代表了她，也代表了皮特爵士的母亲，大衣下面写着“Resurgam”，两侧是克劳利鸽子和蛇。武器和舱口，Resurgam。——这是一个说教的机会！

Mr. Crawley had tended that otherwise friendless bedside. She went out of the world strengthened by such words and comfort as he could give her. For many years his was the only kindness she ever knew; the only friendship that solaced in any way that feeble, lonely soul. Her heart was dead long before her body. She had sold it to become Sir Pitt Crawley’s wife. Mothers and daughters are making the same bargain every day in Vanity Fair.
克劳利先生一直在照顾那个没有朋友的床边。她离开这个世界时，因为他能给她的话语和安慰而变得坚强。多年来，他是她所知道的唯一的善意。这是唯一能以任何方式安慰那个脆弱、孤独的灵魂的友谊。她的心比她的身体早死了。她卖掉了它，成为皮特·克劳利爵士的妻子。母亲和女儿们每天都在名利场上进行同样的讨价还价。

When the demise took place, her husband was in London attending to some of his innumerable schemes, and busy with his endless lawyers. He had found time, nevertheless, to call often in Park Lane, and to despatch many notes to Rebecca, entreating her, enjoining her, commanding her to return to her young pupils in the country, who were now utterly without companionship during their mother’s illness. But Miss Crawley would not hear of her departure; for though there was no lady of fashion in London who would desert her friends more complacently as soon as she was tired of their society, and though few tired of them sooner, yet as long as her engoument lasted her attachment was prodigious, and she clung still with the greatest energy to Rebecca.
当她去世时，她的丈夫正在伦敦处理他无数的计划中的一些，并忙于与他无穷无尽的律师打交道。尽管如此，他还是抽出时间经常去帕克巷打电话，给丽贝卡寄了很多纸条，恳求她，嘱咐她，命令她回到乡下的年轻学生身边，这些学生在母亲生病期间完全没有陪伴。 。但克劳利小姐不肯听到她离开的消息。因为尽管伦敦没有哪位时尚女士一旦厌倦了朋友们的交往，就会更得意地抛弃他们，而且很少有人比他们更早厌倦，但只要她的宴会持续下去，她的依恋就将是惊人的，她紧抓不放。仍然对丽贝卡充满活力。

The news of Lady Crawley’s death provoked no more grief or comment than might have been expected in Miss Crawley’s family circle. ‘I suppose I must put off my party for the 3rd,’ Miss Crawley said; and added, after a pause, ‘I hope my brother will have the decency not to marry again.’ ‘What a confounded rage Pitt will be in if he does,’ Rawdon remarked, with his usual regard for his elder brother. Rebecca said nothing. She seemed by far the gravest and most impressed of the family. She left the room before Rawdon went away that day; but they met by chance below, as he was going away after taking leave, and had a parley together.
克劳利夫人去世的消息并没有在克劳利小姐的家人圈子里引起更多的悲伤或评论。 “我想我必须把聚会推迟到第三天，”克劳利小姐说。停顿了一下，又补充道，“我希望我哥哥能有礼貌，不要再结婚了。”“如果皮特真的结婚了，他会感到多么愤怒啊，”罗登说道，语气一如既往地尊重他的哥哥。丽贝卡什么也没说。到目前为止，她似乎是这个家庭中最严肃、最令人印象深刻的一个。那天罗登离开之前她就离开了房间。但在他告辞离开的时候，他们在下面偶然相遇，并一起进行了谈判。

On the morrow, as Rebecca was gazing from the window, she startled Miss Crawley, who was placidly occupied with a French novel, by crying out in an alarmed tone, ‘Here’s Sir Pitt, Ma’am!’ and the Baronet’s knock followed this announcement.
第二天，当丽贝卡从窗外凝视时，她用惊慌的语气喊道：“这是皮特爵士，女士！”，这让克劳利小姐吃了一惊，克劳利小姐正在平静地阅读一本法国小说。公告。

‘My dear, I can’t see him. I won’t see him. Tell Bowls not at home, or go downstairs and say I’m too ill to receive any one. My nerves really won’t bear my brother at this moment,’ cried out Miss Crawley, and resumed the novel.
‘亲爱的，我看不见他。我不会见他。告诉鲍尔斯不在家，或者下楼说我病得太重，无法接待任何人。此刻我的神经实在受不了我的兄弟了。”克劳利小姐喊道，然后又继续看小说。

‘She’s too ill to see you, sir,’ Rebecca said, tripping down to Sir Pitt, who was preparing to ascend.
“她病得太重了，不能见您，先生。”丽贝卡跌跌撞撞地走到皮特爵士身边，皮特爵士正准备上去。

‘So much the better,’ Sir Pitt answered. ‘I want to see YOU, Miss Becky. Come along a me into the parlour,’ and they entered that apartment together.
“那就更好了，”皮特爵士回答道。 “我想见你，贝基小姐。跟我一起进客厅吧，”然后他们一起走进了那间公寓。

‘I wawnt you back at Queen’s Crawley, Miss,’ the baronet said, fixing his eyes upon her, and taking off his black gloves and his hat with its great crape hat-band. His eyes had such a strange look, and fixed upon her so steadfastly, that Rebecca Sharp began almost to tremble.
“我叫你回到皇后克劳利，小姐，”男爵说，眼睛盯着她，脱下黑色手套和带有大黑纱帽带的帽子。他的眼神如此奇怪，又如此坚定地盯着她，丽贝卡·夏普几乎开始颤抖。

‘I hope to come soon,’ she said in a low voice, ‘as soon as Miss Crawley is better—and return to—to the dear children.’
“我希望尽快来，”她低声说道，“等克劳利小姐好起来，回到亲爱的孩子们身边。”

‘You’ve said so these three months, Becky,’ replied Sir Pitt, ‘and still you go hanging on to my sister, who’ll fling you off like an old shoe, when she’s wore you out. I tell you I want you. I’m going back to the Vuneral. Will you come back? Yes or no?’
“这三个月你都这么说了，贝基，”皮特爵士回答道，“但你仍然紧紧抓住我姐姐，当她把你累坏了的时候，她会像扔旧鞋一样把你甩掉。”我告诉你我想要你。我要回维纳拉尔了。你会回来吗？是还是不是？'

‘I daren’t—I don’t think—it would be right—to be alone—with you, sir,’ Becky said, seemingly in great agitation.
“我不敢——我不认为——单独和你在一起是正确的，先生，”贝基说道，看上去非常激动。

‘I say agin, I want you,’ Sir Pitt said, thumping the table. ‘I can’t git on without you. I didn’t see what it was till you went away. The house all goes wrong. It’s not the same place. All my accounts has got muddled agin. You MUST come back. Do come back. Dear Becky, do come.’
“我说，我想要你，”皮特爵士拍着桌子说道。 ‘没有你我就无法前进。直到你走后我才明白那是什么。房子一切都出了问题。这不是同一个地方。我所有的账目又变得混乱了。你必须回来。一定要回来。亲爱的贝基，一定要来。

‘Come—as what, sir?’ Rebecca gasped out.
“来——怎么样，先生？”丽贝卡喘着气说道。

‘Come as Lady Crawley, if you like,’ the Baronet said, grasping his crape hat. ‘There! will that zatusfy you? Come back and be my wife. Your vit vor’t. Birth be hanged. You’re as good a lady as ever I see. You’ve got more brains in your little vinger than any baronet’s wife in the county. Will you come? Yes or no?’
“如果你愿意的话，就以克劳利夫人的身份来吧，”男爵说道，抓住了他的黑纱帽。 '那里！这会让你满意吗？回来做我的妻子吧。你的生命值不高。出生即被绞死。你是我见过的最好的女士。你的小手指头比县里任何一个从男爵的妻子都聪明。你会来吗？是还是不是？'

‘Oh, Sir Pitt!’ Rebecca said, very much moved.
“哦，皮特爵士！”丽贝卡非常感动地说。

‘Say yes, Becky,’ Sir Pitt continued. ‘I’m an old man, but a good’n. I’m good for twenty years. I’ll make you happy, zee if I don’t. You shall do what you like; spend what you like; and ‘ave it all your own way. I’ll make you a zettlement. I’ll do everything reglar. Look year!’ and the old man fell down on his knees and leered at her like a satyr.
“说是，贝基，”皮特爵士继续说道。 “我是个老人，但很善良。我已经好二十年了。我会让你快乐的，如果我不快乐的话。你应该做你喜欢做的事；花你喜欢的钱；并“随心所欲”。我会给你一个解决方案。我会做一切正常的。看哪！”老人跪倒在地，像色狼一样斜视着她。

Rebecca started back a picture of consternation. In the course of this history we have never seen her lose her presence of mind; but she did now, and wept some of the most genuine tears that ever fell from her eyes.
丽贝卡一脸惊愕。在这段历史中，我们从未见过她失去理智。但她现在做到了，并且流下了有史以来最真诚的泪水。

‘Oh, Sir Pitt!’ she said. ‘Oh, sir—I—I’m married ALREADY.’
“哦，皮特爵士！”她说。 “哦，先生——我——我已经结婚了。”

Chapter XV
第十五章


In Which Rebecca’s Husband Appears for a Short Time
丽贝卡的丈夫在其中短暂出现

Every reader of a sentimental turn (and we desire no other) must have been pleased with the tableau with which the last act of our little drama concluded; for what can be prettier than an image of Love on his knees before Beauty?
每一个感伤的读者（我们不希望有其他读者）一定会对我们的小戏剧的最后一幕结束的画面感到满意；还有什么比爱在美人面前跪下的形象更美的呢？

But when Love heard that awful confession from Beauty that she was married already, he bounced up from his attitude of humility on the carpet, uttering exclamations which caused poor little Beauty to be more frightened than she was when she made her avowal. ‘Married; you’re joking,’ the Baronet cried, after the first explosion of rage and wonder. ‘You’re making vun of me, Becky. Who’d ever go to marry you without a shilling to your vortune?’
但当爱听到美人可怕地承认她已经结婚了时，他从地毯上谦卑的态度中跳了起来，大声喊叫，这让可怜的小美人比她表白时更害怕。 '已婚;你在开玩笑吧，”在第一次爆发愤怒和惊奇之后，男爵喊道。 “你在嘲笑我，贝基。谁会在没有给你一先令的情况下嫁给你呢？

‘Married! married!’ Rebecca said, in an agony of tears—her voice choking with emotion, her handkerchief up to her ready eyes, fainting against the mantelpiece a figure of woe fit to melt the most obdurate heart. ‘O Sir Pitt, dear Sir Pitt, do not think me ungrateful for all your goodness to me. It is only your generosity that has extorted my secret.’
'已婚！ “结婚了！”丽贝卡泪流满面地说，她的声音因激动而哽咽，她用手帕捂住眼睛，昏倒在壁炉架上，一副悲伤的样子，足以融化最顽固的心。 “噢，皮特爵士，亲爱的皮特爵士，不要认为我对你对我的一切善意忘恩负义。只是你的慷慨才盗取了我的秘密。

‘Generosity be hanged!’ Sir Pitt roared out. ‘Who is it tu, then, you’re married? Where was it?’
“慷慨被绞死！”皮特爵士吼道。 ‘那你是谁啊，你结婚了？它在哪里？

‘Let me come back with you to the country, sir! Let me watch over you as faithfully as ever! Don’t, don’t separate me from dear Queen’s Crawley!’
“让我和你一起回乡下吧，先生！”让我一如既往地忠实地守护着你吧！别，别把我和亲爱的克劳利女王分开！”

‘The feller has left you, has he?’ the Baronet said, beginning, as he fancied, to comprehend. ‘Well, Becky—come back if you like. You can’t eat your cake and have it. Any ways I made you a vair offer. Coom back as governess—you shall have it all your own way.’ She held out one hand. She cried fit to break her heart; her ringlets fell over her face, and over the marble mantelpiece where she laid it.
“那家伙已经离开你了，是吗？”从男爵说道，正如他想象的那样，他开始明白了。 “好吧，贝基——如果你愿意就回来吧。”你不能既吃蛋糕又拥有它。我以任何方式向您提供了报价。回来当家庭教师吧——你将拥有你自己的方式。”她伸出一只手。她哭得心碎；她的小卷发垂落在脸上，也落在她放置头发的大理石壁炉架上。

‘So the rascal ran off, eh?’ Sir Pitt said, with a hideous attempt at consolation. ‘Never mind, Becky, I’LL take care of ‘ee.’
“所以那个流氓跑掉了，嗯？”皮特爵士说道，并试图安慰他。 “没关系，贝基，我会照顾‘ee’。”

‘Oh, sir! it would be the pride of my life to go back to Queen’s Crawley, and take care of the children, and of you as formerly, when you said you were pleased with the services of your little Rebecca. When I think of what you have just offered me, my heart fills with gratitude indeed it does. I can’t be your wife, sir; let me—let me be your daughter.’ Saying which, Rebecca went down on HER knees in a most tragical way, and, taking Sir Pitt’s horny black hand between her own two (which were very pretty and white, and as soft as satin), looked up in his face with an expression of exquisite pathos and confidence, when—when the door opened, and Miss Crawley sailed in.
‘哦，先生！当你说你对你的小丽贝卡的服务感到满意时，回到女王克劳利，像以前一样照顾孩子们和你，将是我一生的骄傲。当我想到你刚刚为我提供的一切时，我的心里充满了感激之情。我不能成为你的妻子，先生；让我——让我成为你的女儿。”说完，丽贝卡以一种最悲惨的方式跪下，用两只手握住皮特爵士那角质黑黑的手（那只手非常漂亮、洁白，像缎子一样柔软） ），抬起头来看着他，脸上露出一种精致的悲伤和自信的表情，当——当门打开时，克劳利小姐走了进来。

Mrs. Firkin and Miss Briggs, who happened by chance to be at the parlour door soon after the Baronet and Rebecca entered the apartment, had also seen accidentally, through the keyhole, the old gentleman prostrate before the governess, and had heard the generous proposal which he made her. It was scarcely out of his mouth when Mrs. Firkin and Miss Briggs had streamed up the stairs, had rushed into the drawing-room where Miss Crawley was reading the French novel, and had given that old lady the astounding intelligence that Sir Pitt was on his knees, proposing to Miss Sharp. And if you calculate the time for the above dialogue to take place—the time for Briggs and Firkin to fly to the drawing-room—the time for Miss Crawley to be astonished, and to drop her volume of Pigault le Brun —and the time for her to come downstairs—you will see how exactly accurate this history is, and how Miss Crawley must have appeared at the very instant when Rebecca had assumed the attitude of humility.
从男爵和丽贝卡进入公寓后不久，菲尔金夫人和布里格斯小姐碰巧就在客厅门口，他们也无意中通过钥匙孔看到了老先生拜倒在家庭女教师面前，并听到了慷慨的求婚。他创造了她。话音刚落，弗金夫人和布里格斯小姐就涌上楼梯，冲进克劳利小姐正在看法国小说的客厅，向那位老太太透露了皮特爵士正在做的令人震惊的情报。他单膝跪下，向夏普小姐求婚。如果你计算一下上述对话发生的时间——布里格斯和菲尔金飞到客厅的时间——克劳利小姐惊讶并放下她的《皮戈·勒·布伦》的时间——以及时间让她下楼——你会看到这段历史是多么准确，克劳利小姐一定是在丽贝卡采取谦卑态度的那一刻出现的。

‘It is the lady on the ground, and not the gentleman,’ Miss Crawley said, with a look and voice of great scorn. ‘They told me that YOU were on your knees, Sir Pitt: do kneel once more, and let me see this pretty couple!’
“这是地上的那位女士，而不是那位先生。”克劳利小姐说道，眼神和声音都充满了轻蔑。 “他们告诉我，你跪下了，皮特爵士：再跪一次，让我看看这对漂亮的夫妇！”

‘I have thanked Sir Pitt Crawley, Ma’am,’ Rebecca said, rising, ‘and have told him that—that I never can become Lady Crawley.’
“我已经感谢了皮特·克劳利爵士，女士，”丽贝卡站起来说道，“并告诉他——我永远不可能成为克劳利夫人。”

‘Refused him!’ Miss Crawley said, more bewildered than ever. Briggs and Firkin at the door opened the eyes of astonishment and the lips of wonder.
“拒绝了他！”克劳利小姐说，她比以前更困惑了。门口的布里格斯和弗金睁大了惊讶的眼睛和惊奇的嘴唇。

‘Yes—refused,’ Rebecca continued, with a sad, tearful voice.
“是的——拒绝了，”丽贝卡继续说道，声音悲伤，泪流满面。

‘And am I to credit my ears that you absolutely proposed to her, Sir Pitt?’ the old lady asked.
“皮特爵士，你绝对向她求婚了，我可以相信我的耳朵吗？”老太太问道。

‘Ees,’ said the Baronet, ‘I did.’
“是的，”从男爵说，“我做到了。”

‘And she refused you as she says?’
“她就如她所说拒绝了你吗？”

‘Ees,’ Sir Pitt said, his features on a broad grin.
“是的，”皮特爵士说道，脸上露出灿烂的笑容。

‘It does not seem to break your heart at any rate,’ Miss Crawley remarked.
“无论如何，这似乎并没有让你心碎，”克劳利小姐说道。

‘Nawt a bit,’ answered Sir Pitt, with a coolness and good-humour which set Miss Crawley almost mad with bewilderment. That an old gentleman of station should fall on his knees to a penniless governess, and burst out laughing because she refused to marry him— that a penniless governess should refuse a Baronet with four thousand a year—these were mysteries which Miss Crawley could never comprehend. It surpassed any complications of intrigue in her favourite Pigault le Brun.
“没什么，”皮特爵士回答道，语气冷静而幽默，这让克劳利小姐困惑得几乎发疯。一位有地位的老绅士竟向一位身无分文的家庭女教师跪下，并大笑起来，因为她拒绝嫁给他——一位身无分文的家庭女教师竟以每年四千块钱拒绝一位从男爵——这些都是克劳利小姐永远无法理解的谜团。 。它超越了她最喜欢的 Pigault le Brun 中任何阴谋的复杂性。

‘I’m glad you think it good sport, brother,’ she continued, groping wildly through this amazement.
“我很高兴你认为这是一项好运动，兄弟，”她继续说道，在这种惊讶中疯狂地摸索。

‘Vamous,’ said Sir Pitt. ‘Who’d ha’ thought it! what a sly little devil! what a little fox it waws!’ he muttered to himself, chuckling with pleasure.
“Vamous，”皮特爵士说。 “谁会想到”！真是个狡猾的小恶魔！真是一只小狐狸啊！”他自言自语道，高兴地咯咯笑起来。

‘Who’d have thought what?’ cries Miss Crawley, stamping with her foot. ‘Pray, Miss Sharp, are you waiting for the Prince Regent’s divorce, that you don’t think our family good enough for you?’
“谁会想到呢？”克劳利小姐跺着脚喊道。 “请问，夏普小姐，您是否在等待摄政王离婚，因为您认为我们的家庭配不上您？”

‘My attitude,’ Rebecca said, ‘when you came in, ma’am, did not look as if I despised such an honour as this good—this noble man has deigned to offer me. Do you think I have no heart? Have you all loved me, and been so kind to the poor orphan—deserted—girl, and am I to feel nothing? O my friends! O my benefactors! may not my love, my life, my duty, try to repay the confidence you have shown me? Do you grudge me even gratitude, Miss Crawley? It is too muchmy heart is too full”; and she sank down in a chair so pathetically, that most of the audience present were perfectly melted with her sadness.
“我的态度，”丽贝卡说，“当你进来时，女士，看起来我并没有鄙视这样的荣誉——这位高贵的人屈尊向我提供这样的荣誉。你以为我没有心吗？你们都爱我，对这个可怜的孤儿——被遗弃的——女孩如此友善，我难道就没有任何感觉吗？我的朋友们啊！我的恩人啊！我的爱、我的生命、我的责任难道不应该努力回报你对我的信任吗？克劳利小姐，你甚至对我的感激之情感到不满吗？太多了，我的心太满了”；她可怜兮兮地倒在椅子上，在场的大多数观众都被她的悲伤完全融化了。

‘Whether you marry me or not, you’re a good little girl, Becky, and I’m your vriend, mind,’ said Sir Pitt, and putting on his crapebound hat, he walked away—greatly to Rebecca’s relief; for it was evident that her secret was unrevealed to Miss Crawley, and she had the advantage of a brief reprieve.
“无论你是否嫁给我，你都是一个好小女孩，贝基，记住，我是你的朋友，”皮特爵士说，然后戴上他的绉纱帽子，走开了——这让丽贝卡松了一口气。因为很明显，她的秘密没有向克劳利小姐透露，她有一个短暂缓刑的优势。

Putting her handkerchief to her eyes, and nodding away honest Briggs, who would have followed her upstairs, she went up to her apartment; while Briggs and Miss Crawley, in a high state of excitement, remained to discuss the strange event, and Firkin, not less moved, dived down into the kitchen regions, and talked of it with all the male and female company there. And so impressed was Mrs. Firkin with the news, that she thought proper to write off by that very night’s post, ‘with her humble duty to Mrs. Bute Crawley and the family at the Rectory, and Sir Pitt has been and proposed for to marry Miss Sharp, wherein she has refused him, to the wonder of all.’
她用手帕遮住眼睛，向诚实的布里格斯点点头，他本来会跟着她上楼，然后她就上楼去了她的公寓。布里格斯和克劳利小姐兴奋不已，留下来讨论这起奇怪的事件，弗金也同样感动不已，潜入厨房区域，与那里的所有男女同伴谈论这件事。菲尔金夫人对这个消息印象深刻，她认为当晚的邮件就可以注销，“她对布特·克劳利夫人和教区长的家人负有卑微的责任，而皮特爵士已被提议嫁给夏普小姐，令所有人惊奇的是，她拒绝了他。

The two ladies in the dining-room (where worthy Miss Briggs was delighted to be admitted once more to confidential conversation with her patroness) wondered to their hearts’ content at Sir Pitt’s offer, and Rebecca’s refusal; Briggs very acutely suggesting that there must have been some obstacle in the shape of a previous attachment, otherwise no young woman in her senses would ever have refused so advantageous a proposal.
餐厅里的两位女士（值得称道的布里格斯小姐很高兴能再次与她的女主人进行秘密谈话）对皮特爵士的提议和丽贝卡的拒绝感到满意。布里格斯非常尖锐地暗示，以前的依恋一定存在某种障碍，否则任何理智的年轻女子都不会拒绝如此有利的求婚。

‘You would have accepted it yourself, wouldn’t you, Briggs?’ Miss Crawley said, kindly.
“你自己也会接受的，不是吗，布里格斯？”克劳利小姐和蔼地说。

‘Would it not be a privilege to be Miss Crawley’s sister?’ Briggs replied, with meek evasion.
“成为克劳利小姐的妹妹难道不是一种荣幸吗？”布里格斯回答道，语气温顺地回避道。

‘Well, Becky would have made a good Lady Crawley, after all,’ Miss Crawley remarked (who was mollified by the girl’s refusal, and very liberal and generous now there was no call for her sacrifices). ‘She has brains in plenty (much more wit in her little finger than you have, my poor dear Briggs, in all your head). Her manners are excellent, now I have formed her. She is a Montmorency, Briggs, and blood is something, though I despise it for my part; and she would have held her own amongst those pompous stupid Hampshire people much better than that unfortunate ironmonger’s daughter.’
“好吧，毕竟，贝基会成为一名优秀的克劳利夫人，”克劳利小姐说道（女孩的拒绝让她平静下来，而且现在不需要她做出牺牲，她非常自由和慷慨）。 “她有足够的头脑（她的小指头比你的智慧多得多，我可怜的亲爱的布里格斯，你所有的头脑）。她的举止非常好，现在我已经塑造了她。她是蒙莫朗西家族的人，布里格斯，血统是很重要的东西，尽管我本人鄙视它。和那个不幸的五金商的女儿相比，她在汉普郡那些自大愚蠢的汉普郡人中更能保持自己的地位。

Briggs coincided as usual, and the ‘previous attachment’ was then discussed in conjectures. ‘You poor friendless creatures are always having some foolish tendre,’ Miss Crawley said. ‘You yourself, you know, were in love with a writing-master (don’t cry, Briggs—you’re always crying, and it won’t bring him to life again), and I suppose this unfortunate Becky has been silly and sentimental too—some apothecary, or house-steward, or painter, or young curate, or something of that sort.’
布里格斯和往常一样不约而同，然后就以猜想的方式讨论了‘之前的依恋’。 “你们这些可怜的、没有朋友的生物总是有一些愚蠢的倾向，”克劳利小姐说。 “你知道，你自己爱上了一位写作大师（别哭，布里格斯——你总是在哭，这不会让他复活），我想这个不幸的贝基是愚蠢的也很感伤——某个药剂师，或者管家，或者画家，或者年轻的牧师，或者诸如此类的人。

‘Poor thing! poor thing!’ says Briggs (who was thinking of twentyfour years back, and that hectic young writing-master whose lock of yellow hair, and whose letters, beautiful in their illegibility, she cherished in her old desk upstairs). ‘Poor thing, poor thing!’ says Briggs. Once more she was a fresh-cheeked lass of eighteen; she was at evening church, and the hectic writing-master and she were quavering out of the same psalm-book.
'可怜的东西！可怜的东西！”布里格斯说（她想起了二十四年前，那位忙碌的年轻写作大师，他有一头黄头发，她在楼上的旧桌子上珍藏着他的信，虽然难以辨认，但很漂亮）。 “可怜的东西，可怜的东西！”布里格斯说。她又回到了十八岁的少女时代，面容光鲜亮丽。她正在晚上的教堂里，忙碌的写作老师和她正在颤抖地写着同一本诗篇。

‘After such conduct on Rebecca’s part,’ Miss Crawley said enthusiastically, ‘our family should do something. Find out who is the objet, Briggs. I’ll set him up in a shop; or order my portrait of him, you know; or speak to my cousin, the Bishop and I’ll doter Becky, and we’ll have a wedding, Briggs, and you shall make the breakfast, and be a bridesmaid.’
“在丽贝卡做出这样的行为之后，”克劳利小姐热情地说，“我们一家人应该做点什么。”找出谁是对象，布里格斯。我会把他安置在一家商店里；或者订购我为他拍摄肖像，你知道；或者跟我表弟主教谈谈，我会宠爱贝基，我们会举行婚礼，布里格斯，你负责做早餐，并担任伴娘。

Briggs declared that it would be delightful, and vowed that her dear Miss Crawley was always kind and generous, and went up to Rebecca’s bedroom to console her and prattle about the offer, and the refusal, and the cause thereof; and to hint at the generous intentions of Miss Crawley, and to find out who was the gentleman that had the mastery of Miss Sharp’s heart.
布里格斯宣称这将是令人愉快的，并发誓她亲爱的克劳利小姐总是善良而慷慨，然后走到丽贝卡的卧室安慰她，并喋喋不休地谈论提议和拒绝及其原因；并暗示克劳利小姐的慷慨意图，并找出谁是掌控夏普小姐心的绅士。

Rebecca was very kind, very affectionate and affected—responded to Briggs’s offer of tenderness with grateful fervour—owned there was a secret attachment—a delicious mystery—what a pity Miss Briggs had not remained half a minute longer at the keyhole! Rebecca might, perhaps, have told more: but five minutes after Miss Briggs’s arrival in Rebecca’s apartment, Miss Crawley actually made her appearance there—an unheard-of honour—her impatience had overcome her; she could not wait for the tardy operations of her ambassadress: so she came in person, and ordered Briggs out of the room. And expressing her approval of Rebecca’s conduct, she asked particulars of the interview, and the previous transactions which had brought about the astonishing offer of Sir Pitt.
丽贝卡非常善良，非常深情，也很感动——以感激的热情回应了布里格斯提出的温柔——承认其中有一种秘密的依恋——一个美妙的谜——多么遗憾布里格斯小姐没有在钥匙孔多停留半分钟！丽贝卡也许可以说得更多：但是布里格斯小姐到达丽贝卡的公寓五分钟后，克劳利小姐实际上出现在那里——这是一种闻所未闻的荣誉——她的不耐烦压倒了她；她迫不及待地等待大使夫人的迟到行动：所以她亲自来了，并命令布里格斯离开房间。她表达了对丽贝卡行为的认可，询问了采访的细节，以及之前促成皮特爵士惊人报价的交易。

Rebecca said she had long had some notion of the partiality with which Sir Pitt honoured her (for he was in the habit of making his feelings known in a very frank and unreserved manner) but, not to mention private reasons with which she would not for the present trouble Miss Crawley, Sir Pitt’s age, station, and habits were such as to render a marriage quite impossible; and could a woman with any feeling of self-respect and any decency listen to proposals at such a moment, when the funeral of the lover’s deceased wife had not actually taken place?
丽贝卡说，她早就知道皮特爵士对她的尊重（因为他习惯以非常坦率和毫无保留的方式表达自己的感受），但更不用说出于私人原因，她不愿意这样做。目前的麻烦，克劳利小姐，皮特爵士的年龄、地位和习惯，使这桩婚姻完全不可能实现。在情人已故妻子的葬礼尚未真正举行的情况下，一个有自尊心和体面的女人能在这种时刻听取求婚吗？

‘Nonsense, my dear, you would never have refused him had there not been some one else in the case,’ Miss Crawley said, coming to her point at once. ‘Tell me the private reasons; what are the private reasons? There is some one; who is it that has touched your heart?’
“胡说，亲爱的，如果不是这个案子里还有其他人，你永远不会拒绝他，”克劳利小姐立即说道。 ‘告诉我私人原因；私人原因是什么？有一个人;是谁触动了你的心？

Rebecca cast down her eyes, and owned there was. ‘You have guessed right, dear lady,’ she said, with a sweet simple faltering voice. ‘You wonder at one so poor and friendless having an attachment, don’t you? I have never heard that poverty was any safeguard against it. I wish it were.’
丽贝卡垂下眼睛，承认事实就是如此。 “你猜对了，亲爱的女士，”她用甜美、简单、结结巴巴的声音说道。 ‘你对一个如此贫穷、没有朋友的人竟然有执着感到惊讶，不是吗？我从来没有听说过贫困可以防止这种情况的发生。我希望如此。

‘My poor dear child,’ cried Miss Crawley, who was always quite ready to be sentimental, ‘is our passion unrequited, then? Are we pining in secret? Tell me all, and let me console you.’
“我可怜的孩子，”克劳利小姐大声喊道，她总是很容易伤感，“那么，我们的热情是没有回报的吗？我们是否在暗中渴望？告诉我一切，让我安慰你。”

‘I wish you could, dear Madam,’ Rebecca said in the same tearful tone. ‘Indeed, indeed, I need it.’ And she laid her head upon Miss Crawley’s shoulder and wept there so naturally that the old lady, surprised into sympathy, embraced her with an almost maternal kindness, uttered many soothing protests of regard and affection for her, vowed that she loved her as a daughter, and would do everything in her power to serve her. ‘And now who is it, my dear? Is it that pretty Miss Sedley’s brother? You said something about an affair with him. I’ll ask him here, my dear. And you shall have him: indeed you shall.’
“我希望你能这么做，亲爱的女士，”丽贝卡用同样含泪的语气说道。 “确实，确实，我需要它。”她把头靠在克劳利小姐的肩膀上，哭得很自然，以至于老太太惊讶地产生了同情，以一种近乎母性的慈爱拥抱了她，说了许多令人安慰的抗议，表达了对她的尊重和感情。发誓爱她如女儿，会竭尽全力侍奉她。 ‘亲爱的，现在是谁？那是塞德利小姐的哥哥吗？你说了一些关于和他有染的事情。我会在这里问他，亲爱的。你将会拥有他：你确实会拥有他。

‘Don’t ask me now,’ Rebecca said. ‘You shall know all soon. Indeed you shall. Dear kind Miss Crawley—dear friend, may I say so?’
“现在别问我，”丽贝卡说。 ‘你很快就会知道一切。事实上你会的。亲爱的克劳利小姐——亲爱的朋友，我可以这么说吗？

‘That you may, my child,’ the old lady replied, kissing her.
“这样吧，我的孩子，”老太太一边回答一边亲吻她。

‘I can’t tell you now,’ sobbed out Rebecca, ‘I am very miserable. But O! love me always—promise you will love me always.’ And in the midst of mutual tears—for the emotions of the younger woman had awakened the sympathies of the elder—this promise was solemnly given by Miss Crawley, who left her little protege, blessing and admiring her as a dear, artless, tender-hearted, affectionate, incomprehensible creature.
“我现在不能告诉你，”丽贝卡抽泣着说，“我非常痛苦。”但是哦！永远爱我——答应你永远爱我。”在彼此的泪水中——因为年轻女子的情感引起了年长女子的同情——克劳利小姐留下了她的小门徒，庄严地做出了这一承诺，祝福并钦佩她是一个可爱的、天真的、温柔的、深情的、难以理解的生物。

And now she was left alone to think over the sudden and wonderful events of the day, and of what had been and what might have been. What think you were the private feelings of Miss, no (begging her pardon) of Mrs. Rebecca? If, a few pages back, the present writer claimed the privilege of peeping into Miss Amelia Sedley’s bedroom, and understanding with the omniscience of the novelist all the gentle pains and passions which were tossing upon that innocent pillow, why should he not declare himself to be Rebecca’s confidante too, master of her secrets, and seal-keeper of that young woman’s conscience?
现在只剩下她独自思考当天发生的突发而奇妙的事件，以及过去发生的事情和可能发生的事情。你以为你是小姐的私人感情，不（请原谅）丽贝卡夫人的私人感情？如果，几页前，本作者声称有幸窥视阿米莉亚·塞德利小姐的卧室，并以小说家的全知了解那无辜的枕头上所有的温柔痛苦和激情，那么他为什么不宣布自己是也是丽贝卡的红颜知己，掌握她的秘密，并守护那个年轻女子的良心？

Well, then, in the first place, Rebecca gave way to some very sincere and touching regrets that a piece of marvellous good fortune should have been so near her, and she actually obliged to decline it. In this natural emotion every properly regulated mind will certainly share. What good mother is there that would not commiserate a penniless spinster, who might have been my lady, and have shared four thousand a year? What well-bred young person is there in all Vanity Fair, who will not feel for a hard-working, ingenious, meritorious girl, who gets such an honourable, advantageous, provoking offer, just at the very moment when it is out of her power to accept it? I am sure our friend Becky’s disappointment deserves and will command every sympathy.
好吧，那么，首先，丽贝卡感到非常真诚和感人的遗憾，因为一件奇妙的好运应该离她如此之近，而她实际上不得不拒绝它。每一个受到适当调节的心灵肯定都会分享这种自然的情感。哪个好母亲不会同情一个身无分文的老处女，她可能是我的夫人，每年分享四千块钱？名利场上哪个有教养的年轻人不会对一个勤奋、聪明、有功绩的女孩产生感情，而她却在她心甘情愿的时候得到了如此光荣、有利、令人兴奋的工作机会。有能力接受吗？我确信我们的朋友贝基的失望值得并且将会博得大家的同情。

I remember one night being in the Fair myself, at an evening party. I observed old Miss Toady there also present, single out for her special attentions and flattery little Mrs. Briefless, the barrister’s wife, who is of a good family certainly, but, as we all know, is as poor as poor can be.
我记得有一天晚上我自己也在博览会上参加一个晚会。我发现老托迪小姐也在场，她特别关心和阿谀奉承，她是大律师的妻子，小布利普莱斯太太，她当然出身一个好家庭，但众所周知，她是穷得要命。

What, I asked in my own mind, can cause this obsequiousness on the part of Miss Toady; has Briefless got a county court, or has his wife had a fortune left her? Miss Toady explained presently, with that simplicity which distinguishes all her conduct. ‘You know,’ she said, ‘Mrs Briefless is granddaughter of Sir John Redhand, who is so ill at Cheltenham that he can’t last six months. Mrs. Briefless’s papa succeeds; so you see she will be a baronet’s daughter.’ And Toady asked Briefless and his wife to dinner the very next week.
我心中自问，到底是什么原因导致托迪小姐如此谄媚呢？ Briefless有县法院吗？还是他的妻子留下了一大笔财产？托迪小姐立即解释道，她的行为举止十分简单。 “你知道，”她说，“布利尼莱斯夫人是约翰·雷德汉德爵士的孙女，约翰·雷德汉德爵士在切尔滕纳姆病得很重，连六个月都活不了。布利夫莱斯夫人的爸爸成功了；所以你看她将成为男爵的女儿。”托迪邀请布利弗莱斯和他的妻子下周共进晚餐。

If the mere chance of becoming a baronet’s daughter can procure a lady such homage in the world, surely, surely we may respect the agonies of a young woman who has lost the opportunity of becoming a baronet’s wife. Who would have dreamed of Lady Crawley dying so soon? She was one of those sickly women that might have lasted these ten years—Rebecca thought to herself, in all the woes of repentance—and I might have been my lady! I might have led that old man whither I would. I might have thanked Mrs. Bute for her patronage, and Mr. Pitt for his insufferable condescension. I would have had the town-house newly furnished and decorated. I would have had the handsomest carriage in London, and a box at the opera; and I would have been presented next season. All this might have been; and now—now all was doubt and mystery.
如果仅仅有机会成为男爵的女儿就可以赢得世界上一位女士的如此敬意，那么我们肯定会尊重一位失去了成为男爵妻子机会的年轻女子的痛苦。谁会想到克劳利夫人这么快就死了？她是那些病弱的女人之一，可能会持续这十年——丽贝卡心里想，在悔改的所有痛苦中——而我可能是我的夫人！我本可以带那个老人去我想去的地方。我本可以感谢布特夫人的赞助，感谢皮特先生令人难以忍受的居高临下。我本来想把联排别墅重新装修和装修过。我会拥有伦敦最漂亮的马车，以及歌剧院的包厢；我会在下个赛季出现。这一切都可能是；而现在——现在一切都充满了怀疑和神秘。

But Rebecca was a young lady of too much resolution and energy of character to permit herself much useless and unseemly sorrow for the irrevocable past; so, having devoted only the proper portion of regret to it, she wisely turned her whole attention towards the future, which was now vastly more important to her. And she surveyed her position, and its hopes, doubts, and chances.
但丽贝卡是一位意志坚强、性格坚强的年轻女士，她不允许自己为不可挽回的过去感到无用和不合时宜的悲伤。因此，在只投入了适当部分的遗憾之后，她明智地将全部注意力转向了未来，现在这对她来说更加重要。她审视了自己的处境，以及它的希望、疑虑和机会。

In the first place, she was MARRIED—that was a great fact. Sir Pitt knew it. She was not so much surprised into the avowal, as induced to make it by a sudden calculation. It must have come some day: and why not now as at a later period? He who would have married her himself must at least be silent with regard to her marriage. How Miss Crawley would bear the news—was the great question. Misgivings Rebecca had; but she remembered all Miss Crawley had said; the old lady’s avowed contempt for birth; her daring liberal opinions; her general romantic propensities; her almost doting attachment to her nephew, and her repeatedly expressed fondness for Rebecca herself. She is so fond of him, Rebecca thought, that she will forgive him anything: she is so used to me that I don’t think she could be comfortable without me: when the eclaircissement comes there will be a scene, and hysterics, and a great quarrel, and then a great reconciliation. At all events, what use was there in delaying? the die was thrown, and now or to-morrow the issue must be the same. And so, resolved that Miss Crawley should have the news, the young person debated in her mind as to the best means of conveying it to her; and whether she should face the storm that must come, or fly and avoid it until its first fury was blown over. In this state of meditation she wrote the following letter:
首先，她已经结婚了——这是一个伟大的事实。皮特爵士知道这一点。与其说她对自己的坦白感到惊讶，不如说她是出于突然的计算才做出这样的决定。它一定有一天会到来：为什么不是现在，而是稍后呢？想要亲自娶她的人至少必须对她的婚姻保持沉默。克劳利小姐将如何接受这个消息——这是一个大问题。丽贝卡有疑虑；但她记得克劳利小姐说过的一切；老太太公开表示蔑视出身；她大胆的自由主义观点；她一般的浪漫倾向；她对侄子近乎溺爱，并多次表达对丽贝卡本人的喜爱。她是如此喜欢他，丽贝卡心想，她会原谅他的一切：她已经习惯了我，我认为没有我她会感到不舒服：当灵光降临时，就会出现一幕，歇斯底里，然后一场大争吵，然后是一场大和解。无论如何，拖延有什么用呢？骰子已经掷出，现在或明天的问题一定是一样的。因此，决定让克劳利小姐知道这个消息后，年轻人在心里争论着如何将消息传达给她。以及她是否应该面对必将到来的风暴，或者飞翔并避开它，直到它的第一次愤怒被吹散。在这种冥想状态下，她写下了下面的信：

Dearest Friend,
最亲爱的朋友，

The great crisis which we have debated about so often is COME. Half of my secret is known, and I have thought and thought, until I am quite sure that now is the time to reveal THE WHOLE OF THE MYSTERY. Sir Pitt came to me this morning, and made—what do you think?—A DECLARATION IN FORM. Think of that! Poor little me. I might have been Lady Crawley. How pleased Mrs. Bute would have been: and ma tante if I had taken precedence of her! I might have been somebody’s mamma, instead of—O, I tremble, I tremble, when I think how soon we must tell all!
我们经常争论的巨大危机即将来临。我的秘密已经有一半为人所知，我想了又想，直到我确信现在是揭开全部秘密的时候了。皮特爵士今天早上来找我，并做出了——你觉得怎么样？——形式上的声明。想想看！可怜的小我。我可能是克劳利夫人。比特夫人会多么高兴：如果我先于她的话！我可能是某人的妈妈，而不是——哦，我颤抖，我颤抖，当我想到我们必须尽快告诉一切时！

Sir Pitt knows I am married, and not knowing to whom, is not very much displeased as yet. Ma tante is ACTUALLY ANGRY that I should have refused him. But she is all kindness and graciousness. She condescends to say I would have made him a good wife; and vows that she will be a mother to your little Rebecca. She will be shaken when she first hears the news. But need we fear anything beyond a momentary anger? I think not: I AM SURE not. She dotes upon you so (you naughty, good-for-nothing man), that she would pardon you ANYTHING: and, indeed, I believe, the next place in her heart is mine: and that she would be miserable without me. Dearest! something TELLS ME we shall conquer. You shall leave that odious regiment: quit gaming, racing, and BE A GOOD BOY; and we shall all live in Park Lane, and ma tante shall leave us all her money.
皮特爵士知道我已经结婚了，虽然不知道和谁结婚，但还不是很不高兴。马坦特实际上很生气我应该拒绝他。但她却充满了善良和仁慈。她屈尊说我会让他成为一个好妻子；并发誓她将成为你的小丽贝卡的母亲。当她第一次听到这个消息时，她会感到震惊。但除了一时的愤怒之外，我们还需要害怕什么吗？我认为不是：我确信不是。她是如此宠爱你（你这个顽皮、无用的男人），她会原谅你的任何事情：事实上，我相信，她心中的下一个位置是我的：没有我，她会很痛苦。最亲爱的！有些东西告诉我我们一定会征服。你应该离开那个可恶的军团：戒掉游戏、戒掉赛车，做一个好孩子；我们都会住在公园巷，玛坦特会把她所有的钱都留给我们。

I shall try and walk to-morrow at 3 in the usual place. If Miss B. accompanies me, you must come to dinner, and bring an answer, and put it in the third volume of Porteus’s Sermons. But, at all events, come to your own
明天三点我会尝试在老地方步行。如果B.小姐陪我，你必须来吃晚饭，并带来答案，并将其放在波特乌斯布道书第三卷中。但无论如何，你要自己来

R.

To Miss Eliza Styles, At Mr. Barnet’s, Saddler, Knightsbridge.
致伊丽莎·斯泰尔斯小姐，地址：骑士桥萨德勒巴尼特先生家。

And I trust there is no reader of this little story who has not discernment enough to perceive that the Miss Eliza Styles (an old schoolfellow, Rebecca said, with whom she had resumed an active correspondence of late, and who used to fetch these letters from the saddler’s), wore brass spurs, and large curling mustachios, and was indeed no other than Captain Rawdon Crawley.
我相信这个小故事的读者没有足够的洞察力来察觉伊丽莎·斯泰尔斯小姐（丽贝卡说，她是一位老同学，她最近与她恢复了活跃的通信，她过去常从那里取这些信）马鞍匠的），穿着黄铜马刺，留着卷曲的大胡子，他正是罗登·克劳利上尉。

Chapter XVI
第十六章


The Letter on the Pincushion
枕形信

How they were married is not of the slightest consequence to anybody. What is to hinder a Captain who is a major, and a young lady who is of age, from purchasing a licence, and uniting themselves at any church in this town? Who needs to be told, that if a woman has a will she will assuredly find a way?—My belief is that one day, when Miss Sharp had gone to pass the forenoon with her dear friend Miss Amelia Sedley in Russell Square, a lady very like her might have been seen entering a church in the City, in company with a gentleman with dyed mustachios, who, after a quarter of an hour’s interval, escorted her back to the hackney-coach in waiting, and that this was a quiet bridal party.
他们如何结婚对任何人来说都没有丝毫影响。是什么阻碍了一位少校的上尉和一位成年的年轻女士购买执照，并在这个镇上的任何教堂联合？需要告诉谁，如果一个女人有意愿，她一定会找到办法？——我相信有一天，当夏普小姐和她亲爱的朋友阿米莉亚·塞德利小姐去罗素广场度过一个上午时，一位女士很像她可能被看到进入城里的一座教堂，与一位染着小胡子的绅士在一起，在一刻钟的间隔后，他护送她回到等待的哈克尼马车，这是一个安静的新娘派对。

And who on earth, after the daily experience we have, can question the probability of a gentleman marrying anybody? How many of the wise and learned have married their cooks? Did not Lord Eldon himself, the most prudent of men, make a runaway match? Were not Achilles and Ajax both in love with their servant maids? And are we to expect a heavy dragoon with strong desires and small brains, who had never controlled a passion in his life, to become prudent all of a sudden, and to refuse to pay any price for an indulgence to which he had a mind? If people only made prudent marriages, what a stop to population there would be!
根据我们的日常经验，到底谁能质疑一位绅士与任何人结婚的可能性？有多少智者和博学的人嫁给了他们的厨师？埃尔登勋爵本人，这个最谨慎的人，难道没有进行一场失控的比赛吗？阿喀琉斯和埃阿斯不是都爱上了他们的女仆吗？难道我们会期望一个欲望强烈、头脑狭隘、一生中从未控制过激情的重型龙骑兵会突然变得谨慎，拒绝为他想要的放纵付出任何代价吗？如果人们只谨慎结婚，那么人口就会停止增长！

It seems to me, for my part, that Mr. Rawdon’s marriage was one of the honestest actions which we shall have to record in any portion of that gentleman’s biography which has to do with the present history. No one will say it is unmanly to be captivated by a woman, or, being captivated, to marry her; and the admiration, the delight, the passion, the wonder, the unbounded confidence, and frantic adoration with which, by degrees, this big warrior got to regard the little Rebecca, were feelings which the ladies at least will pronounce were not altogether vhe new piano all the morning. The new gloves fitted her to a nicety; the new shawls became her wonderfully; the new rings glittered on her little hands, and the new watch ticked at her waist; ‘suppose she don’t come round, eh, Becky?’
在我看来，罗登先生的婚姻是最诚实的行为之一，我们必须在这位先生的传记中与当今历史有关的任何部分中记录这一行为。没有人会说被一个女人迷住，或者被女人迷住而娶她是没有男子气概的表现；这位大战士逐渐对小丽贝卡产生的钦佩、喜悦、激情、惊奇、无限的信心和疯狂的崇拜，这些感情至少女士们会表达出来，这并不完全是新鲜事。整个上午都在弹钢琴。新手套非常适合她。新披肩非常适合她。新的戒指在她的小手上闪闪发光，新的手表在她的腰间滴答作响。 “如果她不醒过来，嗯，贝基？”

‘I’LL make your fortune,’ she said; and Delilah patted Samson’s cheek.
“我会让你发财的，”她说。大利拉拍拍参孙的脸颊。

‘You can do anything,’ he said, kissing the little hand. ‘By Jove you can; and we’ll drive down to the Star and Garter, and dine, by Jove.’
“你可以做任何事，”他说，亲吻了小手。 ‘天啊，你可以的；我们将开车前往 Star and Garter，并在 Jove 旁用餐。

Chapter XVII
第十七章


How Captain Dobbin Bought a Piano
多宾船长如何购买钢琴

If there is any exhibition in all Vanity Fair which Satire and Sentiment can visit arm in arm together; where you light on the strangest contrasts laughable and tearful: where you may be gentle and pathetic, or savage and cynical with perfect propriety: it is at one of those public assemblies, a crowd of which are advertised every day in the last page of the Times newspaper, and over which the late Mr. George Robins used to preside with so much dignity. There are very few London people, as I fancy, who have not attended at these meetings, and all with a taste for moralizing must have thought, with a sensation and interest not a little startling and queer, of the day when their turn shall come too, and Mr. Hammerdown will sell by the orders of Diogenes’ assignees, or will be instructed by the executors, to offer to public competition, the library, furniture, plate, wardrobe, and choice cellar of wines of Epicurus deceased.
如果《名利场》里有什么展览可以让讽刺和感伤一起参观；在那里，你会看到最奇怪的对比，可笑又令人泪水：在那里，你可能温柔而可怜，或者野蛮而愤世嫉俗，但又得体：这是在那些公共集会中，每天都会在《每日邮报》的最后一页上刊登广告。已故的乔治·罗宾斯先生曾经非常有尊严地主持《泰晤士报》。我想，很少有伦敦人没有参加过这些会议，所有喜欢说教的人一定都怀着一种令人惊讶和奇怪的感觉和兴趣，想到了轮到他们的那一天。哈默当先生也将按照第欧根尼受让人的命令出售，或者按照执行人的指示，向公众竞争提供伊壁鸠鲁死者的图书馆、家具、盘子、衣柜和精选酒窖。

Even with the most selfish disposition, the Vanity Fairian, as he witnesses this sordid part of the obsequies of a departed friend, can’t but feel some sympathies and regret. My Lord Dives’s remains are in the family vault: the statuaries are cutting an inscription veraciously commemorating his virtues, and the sorrows of his heir, who is disposing of his goods. What guest at Dives’s table can pass the familiar house without a sigh?—the familiar house of which the lights used to shine so cheerfully at seven o’clock, of which the hall-doors opened so readily, of which the obsequious servants, as you passed up the comfortable stair, sounded your name from landing to landing, until it reached the apartment where jolly old Dives welcomed his friends! What a number of them he had; and what a noble way of entertaining them. How witty people used to be here who were morose when they got out of the door; and how courteous and friendly men who slandered and hated each other everywhere else! He was pompous, but with such a cook what would one not swallow? he was rather dull, perhaps, but would not such wine make any conversation pleasant? We must get some of his Burgundy at any price, the mourners cry at his club. ‘I got this box at old Dives’s sale,’ Pincher says, handing it round, ‘one of Louis XV’s mistresses— pretty thing, is it not?—sweet miniature,’ and they talk of the way in which young Dives is dissipating his fortune.
即使性情最自私的虚荣仙子，在亲眼目睹了亡友葬礼的肮脏部分时，也不禁感到一些同情和遗憾。戴夫斯勋爵的遗骸存放在家族金库中：雕像们正在刻下铭文，忠实地纪念他的美德，以及他的继承人在处置他的财产时所承受的悲伤。戴夫餐桌上的哪个客人经过熟悉的房子时，能不叹息呢？——熟悉的房子，七点钟的时候，灯光总是那么欢快地照耀着，大厅的门那么容易打开，那些谄媚的仆人，你走上舒适的楼梯，从一个楼梯平台到另一个平台，不断地喊着你的名字，直到到达公寓，快乐的老戴夫在那里欢迎他的朋友们！他有多少这样的人？这是多么高尚的招待他们的方式啊。以前这里的人多么机智，一出门就闷闷不乐；那些在其他地方互相诽谤和仇恨的人是多么有礼貌和友好啊！他虽然嚣张，但有这样的厨子，还有什么不忍心的呢？也许他相当迟钝，但是这样的酒难道不会让谈话变得愉快吗？我们必须不惜一切代价得到一些他的勃艮第葡萄酒，哀悼者在他的俱乐部里哭泣。 “我在老戴夫斯的拍卖会上得到了这个盒子，”平彻递过来，说道，“路易十五的情妇之一——漂亮的东西，不是吗？——可爱的缩影，”他们谈论年轻的戴夫斯如何消散他的财富。

How changed the house is, though! The front is patched over with bills, setting forth the particulars of the furniture in staring capitals. They have hung a shred of carpet out of an upstairs window—a half dozen of porters are lounging on the dirty steps—the hall swarms with dingy guests of oriental countenance, who thrust printed cards into your hand, and offer to bid. Old women and amateurs have invaded the upper apartments, pinching the bedcurtains, poking into the feathers, shampooing the mattresses, and clapping the wardrobe drawers to and fro. Enterprising young housekeepers are measuring the looking-glasses and hangings to see if they will suit the new menage (Snob will brag for years that he has purchased this or that at Dives’s sale), and Mr. Hammerdown is sitting on the great mahogany dining-tables, in the dining-room below, waving the ivory hammer, and employing all the artifices of eloquence, enthusiasm, entreaty, reason, despair; shouting to his people; satirizing Mr. Davids for his sluggishness; inspiriting Mr. Moss into action; imploring, commanding, bellowing, until down comes the hammer like fate, and we pass to the next lot. O Dives, who would ever have thought, as we sat round the broad table sparkling with plate and spotless linen, to have seen such a dish at the head of it as that roaring auctioneer?
不过，房子发生了多大的变化啊！正面贴满了钞票，用醒目的大写字母列出了家具的细节。他们在楼上的窗户上挂了一块地毯——六个搬运工懒洋洋地躺在肮脏的台阶上——大厅里挤满了东方面孔的肮脏客人，他们把印刷好的卡片塞到你手里，提出出价。老妇人和业余爱好者闯入了楼上的公寓，捏着床帘，戳进羽毛，用洗发水清洗床垫，来回拍打衣柜抽屉。富有进取心的年轻管家正在测量镜子和窗帘，看看它们是否适合新的家庭（势利的人会吹嘘他在戴夫斯拍卖会上买了这个或那个），而汉默当先生坐在巨大的红木餐厅上——楼下餐厅里的桌子上，挥舞着象牙锤子，使用了所有的技巧：雄辩、热情、恳求、理性、绝望；向他的人民呼喊；讽刺戴维斯先生的迟钝；激励莫斯先生采取行动；恳求、命令、吼叫，直到命运之锤般落下，我们进入下一个批次。噢，戴夫们，当我们围坐在摆满盘子和一尘不染的亚麻布的宽大桌子周围时，谁会想到会看到像那位咆哮的拍卖师一样坐在桌子前面的这样一盘菜呢？

It was rather late in the sale. The excellent drawing-room furniture by the best makers; the rare and famous wines selected, regardless of cost, and with the well-known taste of the purchaser; the rich and complete set of family plate had been sold on the previous days. Certain of the best wines (which all had a great character among amateurs in the neighbourhood) had been purchased for his master, who knew them very well, by the butler of our friend John Osborne, Esquire, of Russell Square. A small portion of the most useful articles of the plate had been bought by some young stockbrokers from the City. And now the public being invited to the purchase of minor objects, it happened that the orator on the table was expatiating on the merits of a picture, which he sought to recommend to his audience: it was by no means so select or numerous a company as had attended the previous days of the auction.
销售已经很晚了。由最好的制造商制作的优质客厅家具；不计成本地挑选珍稀名酒，并具有购买者众所周知的品味；丰富齐全的家盘前几天已经售出。某些最好的葡萄酒（在附近的业余爱好者中都具有很高的品质）是由我们的朋友约翰·奥斯本，罗素广场的绅士的管家为他的主人购买的，他对这些葡萄酒非常了解。盘子里最有用的物品的一小部分被一些来自伦敦金融城的年轻股票经纪人购买了。现在，公众被邀请购买小件物品，碰巧桌上的演说家正在阐述一幅画的优点，他试图向观众推荐这幅画：这绝不是一家如此精选或众多的公司就像参加前几天的拍卖会一样。

‘No. 369,’ roared Mr. Hammerdown. ‘Portrait of a gentleman on an elephant. Who’ll bid for the gentleman on the elephant? Lift up the picture, Blowman, and let the company examine this lot.’ A long, pale, military-looking gentleman, seated demurely at the mahogany table, could not help grinning as this valuable lot was shown by Mr. Blowman. ‘Turn the elephant to the Captain, Blowman. What shall we say, sir, for the elephant?’ but the Captain, blushing in a very hurried and discomfited manner, turned away his head.
'不。 369，”哈默当先生咆哮道。 “一位绅士骑大象的肖像。谁来竞拍大象绅士？布洛曼，把照片举起来，让大家检查一下这批拍品。”一位身材修长、脸色苍白、军人模样的绅士端庄地坐在红木桌子旁，当布洛曼先生展示这批珍贵的拍品时，他忍不住笑了。 “把大象转向船长，布洛曼。先生，我们该对大象说些什么呢？”但是船长脸色急促而局促，转过头去。

‘Shall we say twenty guineas for this work of art?—fifteen, five, name your own price. The gentleman without the elephant is worth five pound.’
“这件艺术品我们可以说二十几尼吗？——十五、五，你自己定价吧。”没有大象的绅士值五英镑。

‘I wonder it ain’t come down with him,’ said a professional wag, ‘he’s anyhow a precious big one”; at which (for the elephant-rider was represented as of a very stout figure) there was a general giggle in the room.
“我不知道这不是他的事，”一位专业的笑话说，“无论如何，他是一个珍贵的大人物”；房间里响起一片咯咯的笑声（因为骑象人的身材非常粗壮）。

‘Don’t be trying to deprecate the value of the lot, Mr. Moss,’ Mr. Hammerdown said; ‘let the company examine it as a work of art—the attitude of the gallant animal quite according to natur’; the gentleman in a nankeen jacket, his gun in his hand, is going to the chase; in the distance a banyhann tree and a pagody, most likely resemblances of some interesting spot in our famous Eastern possessions. How much for this lot? Come, gentlemen, don’t keep me here all day.’
“莫斯先生，不要试图贬低这块土地的价值，”哈默当先生说道； “让公司把它当作一件艺术品来审视——勇敢动物的态度完全符合自然”；那位穿着南京夹克的绅士，手里拿着枪，正要去追击。远处有一棵榕树和一座宝塔，很可能类似于我们著名的东方领地中的某个有趣的地方。这批多少钱？来吧，先生们，别让我整天待在这儿。”

Some one bid five shillings, at which the military gentleman looked towards the quarter from which this splendid offer had come, and there saw another officer with a young lady on his arm, who both appeared to be highly amused with the scene, and to whom, finally, this lot was knocked down for half a guinea. He at the table looked more surprised and discomposed than ever when he spied this pair, and his head sank into his military collar, and he turned his back upon them, so as to avoid them altogether.
有人出价五先令，军事绅士向发出这个精彩报价的地方望去，看到另一位军官，胳膊上挽着一位年轻女士，两人似乎都对这一幕感到非常有趣，对他来说，最后，这批货以半几尼的价格被打倒了。当他看到这一对时，餐桌上的他显得更加惊讶和不安，他把头埋进军领，背对着他们，以便完全避开他们。

Of all the other articles which Mr. Hammerdown had the honour to offer for public competition that day it is not our purpose to make mention, save of one only, a little square piano, which came down from the upper regions of the house (the state grand piano having been disposed of previously); this the young lady tried with a rapid and skilful hand (making the officer blush and start again), and for it, when its turn came, her agent began to bid.
在哈默当先生那天有幸提供的所有其他物品中，我们的目的不是要提及，除了一件，一架小方形钢琴，它是从房子的上部区域下来的（状态三角钢琴之前已被处置）；这位年轻女士以快速而熟练的手尝试了这一点（使官员脸红并重新开始），而当轮到她时，她的经纪人开始竞标。

But there was an opposition here. The Hebrew aide-de-camp in the service of the officer at the table bid against the Hebrew gentleman employed by the elephant purchasers, and a brisk battle ensued over this little piano, the combatants being greatly encouraged by Mr. Hammerdown.
但这里也有人反对。为餐桌上的军官服务的希伯来副官与大象购买者雇用的希伯来绅士竞价，随后就这架小钢琴展开了一场激烈的战斗，双方都受到了哈默当先生的极大鼓舞。

At last, when the competition had been prolonged for some time, the elephant captain and lady desisted from the race; and the hammer coming down, the auctioneer said:—‘Mr. Lewis, twenty-five,’ and Mr. Lewis’s chief thus became the proprietor of the little square piano. Having effected the purchase, he sate up as if he was greatly relieved, and the unsuccessful competitors catching a glimpse of him at this moment, the lady said to her friend,
最后，当比赛延长了一段时间后，大象队长和大象女士退出了比赛。锤子落下，拍卖师说道：“先生。”刘易斯，二十五岁，”刘易斯先生的首领就这样成为了小方钢琴的所有者。买完后，他如释重负般坐了起来，落选的竞争者此时也看到了他，那位女士对她的朋友说道：

‘Why, Rawdon, it’s Captain Dobbin.’
“为什么，罗登，是多宾船长。”

I suppose Becky was discontented with the new piano her husband had hired for her, or perhaps the proprietors of that instrument had fetched it away, declining farther credit, or perhaps she had a particular attachment for the one which she had just tried to purchase, recollecting it in old days, when she used to play upon it, in the little sitting-room of our dear Amelia Sedley.
我想贝基对她丈夫为她租的新钢琴不满意，或者可能是该乐器的所有者把它拿走了，拒绝进一步的信用，或者也许她对她刚刚想购买的那架钢琴有一种特殊的依恋，回想起过去，她常常在我们亲爱的阿米莉亚·塞德利的小客厅里玩它。

The sale was at the old house in Russell Square, where we passed some evenings together at the beginning of this story. Good old John Sedley was a ruined man. His name had been proclaimed as a defaulter on the Stock Exchange, and his bankruptcy and commercial extermination had followed. Mr. Osborne’s butler came to buy some of the famous port wine to transfer to the cellars over the way. As for one dozen well-manufactured silver spoons and forks at per oz., and one dozen dessert ditto ditto, there were three young stockbrokers (Messrs. Dale, Spiggot, and Dale, of Threadneedle Street, indeed), who, having had dealings with the old man, and kindnesses from him in days when he was kind to everybody with whom he dealt, sent this little spar out of the wreck with their love to good Mrs. Sedley; and with respect to the piano, as it had been Amelia’s, and as she might miss it and want one now, and as Captain William Dobbin could no more play upon it than he could dance on the tight rope, it is probable that he did not purchase the instrument for his own use.
拍卖会是在罗素广场的老房子里进行的，在故事开始时我们在那里度过了几个晚上。善良的老约翰·塞德利是一个破产的人。他的名字在证券交易所被宣布为违约者，随之而来的是他的破产和商业灭绝。奥斯本先生的管家过来买了一些著名的波特酒，顺便转移到地窖里。至于一打每盎司制作精良的银勺子和叉子，还有一打甜点，也是如此，有三个年轻的股票经纪人（确实是针线街的戴尔先生、斯皮戈特先生和戴尔先生），他们曾经做过交易。和老人在一起，以及他在那些日子里对每个与他打交道的人都很友善的时候，他的善意，带着他们对善良的塞德利夫人的爱，把这根小圆石从沉船中救了出来。至于钢琴，因为它曾经是阿米莉亚的，而且她可能会想念它，现在想要一架，而且威廉·多宾船长不能在这架钢琴上弹奏，就像他不能在紧绳上跳舞一样，他很可能做到了不得购买仪器供自己使用。

In a word, it arrived that evening at a wonderful small cottage in a street leading from the Fulham Road—one of those streets which have the finest romantic names—(this was called St. Adelaide Villas, Anna-Maria Road West), where the houses look like baby-houses; where the people, looking out of the first-floor windows, must infallibly, as you think, sit with their feet in the parlours; where the shrubs in the little gardens in front bloom with a perennial display of little children’s pinafores, little red socks, caps, &c. (polyandria polygynia); whence you hear the sound of jingling spinets and women singing; where little porter pots hang on the railings sunning themselves; whither of evenings you see City clerks padding wearily: here it was that Mr. Clapp, the clerk of Mr. Sedley, had his domicile, and in this asylum the good old gentleman hid his head with his wife and daughter when the crash came.
总而言之，那天晚上，我们到达了富勒姆路一条街上的一座漂亮的小别墅——富勒姆路是一条有着最浪漫名字的街道——（这条街被称为圣阿德莱德别墅，安娜玛丽亚路西），那里这些房子看起来像婴儿房；那里的人们，从一楼的窗户往外看，一定如你想象的那样，坐在客厅里；前面小花园里的灌木丛常年绽放着小孩子的围裙、小红袜子、帽子等。 （一妻多夫多妻症）；从那里你听到叮当作响的钢琴声和妇女的歌声；栏杆上挂着小搬运工罐子，正在晒太阳；晚上你会看到市政府职员疲倦地走着：这里是塞德利先生的职员克拉普先生的住所，当车祸发生时，这位善良的老绅士和他的妻子和女儿就在这个庇护所里藏着头。

Jos Sedley had acted as a man of his disposition would, when the announcement of the family misfortune reached him. He did not come to London, but he wrote to his mother to draw upon his agents for whatever money was wanted, so that his kind broken-spirited old parents had no present poverty to fear. This done, Jos went on at the boarding-house at Cheltenham pretty much as before. He drove his curricle; he drank his claret; he played his rubber; he told his Indian stories, and the Irish widow consoled and flattered him as usual. His present of money, needful as it was, made little impression on his parents; and I have heard Amelia say that the first day on which she saw her father lift up his head after the failure was on the receipt of the packet of forks and spoons with the young stockbrokers’ love, over which he burst out crying like a child, being greatly more affected than even his wife, to whom the present was addressed. Edward Dale, the junior of the house, who purchased the spoons for the firm, was, in fact, very sweet upon Amelia, and offered for her in spite of all. He married Miss Louisa Cutts (daughter of Higham and Cutts, the eminent cornfactors) with a handsome fortune in 1820; and is now living in splendour, and with a numerous family, at his elegant villa, Muswell Hill. But we must not let the recollections of this good fellow cause us to diverge from the principal history.
当乔斯·塞德利得知家庭不幸的消息时，他的表现就像他这样的性格一样。他没有来伦敦，但他写信给他的母亲，向他的代理人索要任何需要的钱，这样他仁慈、精神崩溃的年迈父母就不用再担心眼前的贫困了。做完这些，乔斯就和以前一样继续住在切尔滕纳姆的寄宿处。他推动了他的课程；他喝了他的红葡萄酒；他玩起了橡皮；他讲述了他的印第安故事，爱尔兰寡妇像往常一样安慰和奉承他。他送的钱虽然很必要，但并没有给他的父母留下什么印象。我听阿米莉亚说，她看到父亲在失败后抬起头的第一天，是在收到那包充满年轻股票经纪人的爱的叉子和勺子时，他像个孩子一样哭了起来。 ，甚至比他的妻子受到的影响还要大，而礼物是送给她的。事实上，爱德华·戴尔（Edward Dale），这个房子的小辈，为公司购买了勺子，他对阿米莉亚非常好，不顾一切地向她提出了要求。 1820年，他与路易莎·卡茨小姐（著名玉米人海厄姆和卡茨的女儿）结婚，并拥有一笔可观的财产。现在，他在他优雅的马斯韦尔山别墅里与众多家庭一起过着富丽堂皇的生活。但我们决不能让这位好人的回忆使我们偏离主要历史。

I hope the reader has much too good an opinion of Captain and Mrs. Crawley to suppose that they ever would have dreamed of paying a visit to so remote a district as Bloomsbury, if they thought the family whom they proposed to honour with a visit were not merely out of fashion, but out of money, and could be serviceable to them in no possible manner. Rebecca was entirely surprised at the sight of the comfortable old house where she had met with no small kindness, ransacked by brokers and bargainers, and its quiet family treasures given up to public desecration and plunder. A month after her flight, she had bethought her of Amelia, and Rawdon, with a horselaugh, had expressed a perfect willingness to see young George Osborne again. ‘He’s a very agreeable acquaintance, Beck,’ the wag added. ‘I’d like to sell him another horse, Beck. I’d like to play a few more games at billiards with him. He’d be what I call useful just now, Mrs. C.—ha, ha!’ by which sort of speech it is not to be supposed that Rawdon Crawley had a deliberate desire to cheat Mr. Osborne at play, but only wished to take that fair advantage of him which almost every sporting gentleman in Vanity Fair considers to be his due from his neighbour.
我希望读者对克劳利船长和夫人有很好的评价，如果他们认为他们打算拜访的家庭是这样的话，他们就不会梦想去参观像布卢姆斯伯里这样偏远的地区。不仅不时尚，而且没钱，而且不可能对他们有用。丽贝卡完全惊讶地看到这座舒适的老房子，她在那里受到了不小的善意，被经纪人和讨价还价者洗劫一空，而它安静的家庭宝藏却被公开亵渎和掠夺。飞行一个月后，她想起了阿米莉亚，罗登哈哈大笑，表示非常愿意再次见到年轻的乔治·奥斯本。 “他是一个非常令人愉快的熟人，贝克，”开玩笑的人补充道。 “我想再卖给他一匹马，贝克。我想和他多打几场台球。他现在就是我所说的有用的人，C夫人——哈，哈！”通过这种言论，我们不能认为罗顿·克劳利故意在游戏中欺骗奥斯本先生，而只是希望充分利用他的公平优势，几乎《名利场》中的每一位体育绅士都认为这是他从邻居那里得到的。

The old aunt was long in ‘coming-to.’ A month had elapsed. Rawdon was denied the door by Mr. Bowls; his servants could not get a lodgment in the house at Park Lane; his letters were sent back unopened. Miss Crawley never stirred out—she was unwell—and Mrs. Bute remained still and never left her. Crawley and his wife both of them augured evil from the continued presence of Mrs. Bute.
老阿姨已经苏醒很久了。一个月过去了。罗登被鲍尔斯先生拒之门外。他的仆人无法在公园巷的房子里找到住处；他的信原封不动地被退回。克劳利小姐一直没有动过——她身体不舒服——而布特夫人则一动不动，从未离开过她。克劳利和他的妻子都因布特夫人的持续存在而预示着邪恶。

‘Gad, I begin to perceive now why she was always bringing us together at Queen’s Crawley,’ Rawdon said.
“加德，我现在开始明白为什么她总是把我们聚集在皇后克劳利，”罗登说。

‘What an artful little woman!’ ejaculated Rebecca.
“多么狡猾的小女人啊！”丽贝卡脱口而出。

‘Well, I don’t regret it, if you don’t,’ the Captain cried, still in an amorous rapture with his wife, who rewarded him with a kiss by way of reply, and was indeed not a little gratified by the generous confidence of her husband.
“好吧，如果你不这样做的话，我也不后悔。”船长喊道，仍然沉浸在与妻子的多情狂喜之中，妻子回敬了他一个吻，作为对他的回应，他确实感到非常高兴。丈夫的慷慨信任。

‘If he had but a little more brains,’ she thought to herself, ‘I might make something of him”; but she never let him perceive the opinion she had of him; listened with indefatigable complacency to his stories of the stable and the mess; laughed at all his jokes; felt the greatest interest in Jack Spatterdash, whose cab-horse had come down, and Bob Martingale, who had been taken up in a gamblinghouse, and Tom Cinqbars, who was going to ride the steeplechase. When he came home she was alert and happy: when he went out she pressed him to go: when he stayed at home, she played and sang for him, made him good drinks, superintended his dinner, warmed his slippers, and steeped his soul in comfort. The best of women (I have heard my grandmother say) are hypocrites. We don’t know how much they hide from us: how watchful they are when they seem most artless and confidential: how often those frank smiles which they wear so easily, are traps to cajole or elude or disarm—I don’t mean in your mere coquettes, but your domestic models, and paragons of female virtue. Who has not seen a woman hide the dulness of a stupid husband, or coax the fury of a savage one? We accept this amiable slavishness, and praise a woman for it: we call this pretty treachery truth. A good housewife is of necessity a humbug; and Cornelia’s husband was hoodwinked, as Potiphar was—only in a different way.
“如果他再多一点脑子，”她心想，“我也许可以利用他做点什么”；但她从来不让他察觉到她对他的看法。不知疲倦地、自满地听着他讲述马厩和杂乱的故事；听他讲的笑话都笑了；最感兴趣的是杰克·斯帕特达什（他的出租车马已经下来了）、鲍勃·马丁盖尔（被带进一家赌场）和汤姆·辛克巴尔斯（他要去参加障碍赛马场）。当他回家时，她警觉而快乐；当他出去时，她催促他走；当他留在家里时，她为他弹琴唱歌，为他泡好酒，监督他的晚餐，温暖他的拖鞋，浸泡他的灵魂。在舒适中。最好的女人（我听我祖母说过）都是伪君子。我们不知道他们对我们隐藏了多少：当他们看起来最天真和最保密时，他们是多么警惕：他们如此轻松地挂着的那些坦率的微笑，有多少时候是诱骗、逃避或解除武装的陷阱——我不是说在你们只不过是卖弄风骚的人，但却是你们的家庭模特和女性美德的典范。谁没见过女人隐藏愚蠢丈夫的愚昧，或哄骗野蛮丈夫的愤怒？我们接受这种和蔼可亲的奴性，并为此赞扬女人：我们称之为相当背叛的真理。一个好的家庭主妇必然是一个骗子；科妮莉亚的丈夫也被蒙蔽了，就像波提乏一样——只是方式不同。

By these attentions, that veteran rake, Rawdon Crawley, found himself converted into a very happy and submissive married man. His former haunts knew him not. They asked about him once or twice at his clubs, but did not miss him much: in those booths of Vanity Fair people seldom do miss each other. His secluded wife ever smiling and cheerful, his little comfortable lodgings, snug meals, and homely evenings, had all the charms of novelty and secrecy. The marriage was not yet declared to the world, or published in the Morning Post. All his creditors would have come rushing on him in a body, had they known that he was united to a woman without fortune. ‘My relations won’t cry fie upon me,’ Becky said, with rather a bitter laugh; and she was quite contented to wait until the old aunt should be reconciled, before she claimed her place in society. So she lived at Brompton, and meanwhile saw no one, or only those few of her husband’s male companions who were admitted into her little dining-room. These were all charmed with her. The little dinners, the laughing and chatting, the music afterwards, delighted all who participated in these enjoyments. Major Martingale never thought about asking to see the marriage licence, Captain Cinqbars was perfectly enchanted with her skill in making punch. And young Lieutenant Spatterdash (who was fond of piquet, and whom Crawley would often invite) was evidently and quickly smitten by Mrs. Crawley; but her own circumspection and modesty never forsook her for a moment, and Crawley’s reputation as a fire-eating and jealous warrior was a further and complete defence to his little wife.
通过这些关注，老浪子罗登·克劳利发现自己变成了一个非常幸福和顺从的已婚男人。他以前常去的地方不认识他。他们在他的俱乐部里询问过他一两次，但并没有太想念他：在《名利场》的那些摊位上，人们很少会想念彼此。他与世隔绝的妻子总是微笑着、开朗，他舒适的小住所、舒适的饭菜和温馨的夜晚，充满了新奇和神秘的魅力。这段婚姻尚未向全世界宣布，也没有在《晨报》上发表。如果他所有的债主知道他与一个没有财产的女人结合在一起，他们就会集体冲向他。 “我的亲戚们不会为我哭泣，”贝基苦笑道。她很满足地等到老姑妈和解了，才在社会上占有一席之地。所以她住在布朗普顿，同时没有见到任何人，或者只看到她丈夫的少数几个被允许进入她的小餐厅的男性同伴。这些都让她着迷。小小的晚餐、欢笑、聊天以及随后的音乐，让所有参与这些享受的人都感到高兴。马丁盖尔少校从未想过要查看结婚证，辛克巴尔斯船长对她打拳的技巧非常着迷。年轻的斯帕达什中尉（他喜欢发脾气，克劳利经常邀请他）显然很快就被克劳利夫人迷住了。但她自己的谨慎和谦虚从未放弃过她，克劳利作为一个吃火和嫉妒的战士的声誉是对他的小妻子的进一步和完整的保护。

There are gentlemen of very good blood and fashion in this city, who never have entered a lady’s drawing-room; so that though Rawdon Crawley’s marriage might be talked about in his county, where, of course, Mrs. Bute had spread the news, in London it was doubted, or not heeded, or not talked about at all. He lived comfortably on credit. He had a large capital of debts, which laid out judiciously, will carry a man along for many years, and on which certain men about town contrive to live a hundred times better than even men with ready money can do. Indeed who is there that walks London streets, but can point out a half-dozen of men riding by him splendidly, while he is on foot, courted by fashion, bowed into their carriages by tradesmen, denying themselves nothing, and living on who knows what? We see Jack Thriftless prancing in the park, or darting in his brougham down Pall Mall: we eat his dinners served on his miraculous plate. ‘How did this begin,’ we say, ‘or where will it end?’ ‘My dear fellow,’ I heard Jack once say, ‘I owe money in every capital in Europe.’ The end must come some day, but in the meantime Jack thrives as much as ever; people are glad enough to shake him by the hand, ignore the little dark stories that are whispered every now and then against him, and pronounce him a goodnatured, jovial, reckless fellow.
这个城市里有一些绅士，他们的血统很好，很时尚，但他们从来没有进入过女士的客厅。因此，虽然罗登·克劳利的婚姻可能会在他的县里被谈论，当然，布特夫人在那里传播了这个消息，但在伦敦，这件事却受到了怀疑，或者没有被注意，或者根本没有被谈论。他靠信用过着舒适的生活。他背负着巨额债务，如果明智地使用这些债务，可以支撑一个人很多年，而且城里的某些人靠着这些债务，可以过上比有现钱的人好一百倍的生活。确实，谁走在伦敦的街道上，却能指出六位骑在他身边的男人，而他却是步行的，受到时尚的追捧，被商人鞠躬入马车，不克制自己，过着谁知道的生活呢？什么？我们看到杰克·节俭者在公园里腾跃，或者开着他的马车沿着蓓尔美尔街飞奔：我们吃着他神奇的盘子里的晚餐。 “这一切是如何开始的，”我们说，“或者它会在哪里结束？”“我亲爱的朋友，”我听到杰克有一次说，“我在欧洲的每个首都都欠钱。”终有一天会到来，但在与此同时，杰克一如既往地茁壮成长；人们很高兴与他握手，忽略那些时不时流传的反对他的黑暗小故事，并称他是一个善良、快乐、鲁莽的家伙。

Truth obliges us to confess that Rebecca had married a gentleman of this order. Everything was plentiful in his house but ready money, of which their menage pretty early felt the want; and reading the Gazette one day, and coming upon the announcement of ‘Lieutenant G. Osborne to be Captain by purchase, vice Smith, who exchanges,’ Rawdon uttered that sentiment regarding Amelia’s lover, which ended in the visit to Russell Square.
事实迫使我们承认丽贝卡嫁给了一位这样的绅士。他家里的一切都很充足，但没有现钱，他们的家人很早就感到需要这些钱。有一天，罗登读到《公报》，宣布“G·奥斯本中尉将通过购买成为上尉，史密斯副官将进行交换”，罗登表达了对阿米莉亚情人的看法，最后在参观罗素广场。

When Rawdon and his wife wished to communicate with Captain Dobbin at the sale, and to know particulars of the catastrophe which had befallen Rebecca’s old acquaintances, the Captain had vanished; and such information as they got was from a stray porter or broker at the auction.
当罗登和他的妻子希望在拍卖会上与多宾船长联系，并了解丽贝卡老熟人遭遇的灾难的细节时，船长却消失了。他们得到的这些信息是从拍卖会上的流浪搬运工或经纪人那里得到的。

‘Look at them with their hooked beaks,’ Becky said, getting into the buggy, her picture under her arm, in great glee. ‘They’re like vultures after a battle.’
“看看它们的钩状喙，”贝基说着，钻进了马车，腋下夹着照片，非常高兴。 “他们就像战斗后的秃鹰。”

‘Don’t know. Never was in action, my dear. Ask Martingale; he was in Spain, aide-de-camp to General Blazes.’
‘不知道。从来没有行动过，亲爱的。询问马丁格尔；他当时在西班牙，担任布莱兹将军的副官。

‘He was a very kind old man, Mr. Sedley,’ Rebecca said; ‘I’m really sorry he’s gone wrong.’
“塞德利先生，他是一位非常善良的老人，”丽贝卡说。 “我真的很抱歉他错了。”

‘O stockbrokers—bankrupts—used to it, you know,’ Rawdon replied, cutting a fly off the horse’s ear.
“噢，股票经纪人——破产者——已经习惯了，你知道的，”罗登一边回答，一边从马耳朵上割下一只苍蝇。

‘I wish we could have afforded some of the plate, Rawdon,’ the wife continued sentimentally. ‘Five-and-twenty guineas was monstrously dear for that little piano. We chose it at Broadwood’s for Amelia, when she came from school. It only cost five-and-thirty then.’
“罗登，我希望我们能买得起一些盘子，”妻子感伤地继续说道。 “那架小钢琴五块二十几尼的价格实在是太贵了。当阿米莉亚放学时，我们在布罗德伍德为她选择了它。那时只花了五又三十。

‘What-d’-ye-call’em—‘Osborne,’ will cry off now, I suppose, since the family is smashed. How cut up your pretty little friend will be; hey, Becky?’
我想，“你们叫他们什么——‘奥斯本’，现在会大喊大叫，因为这个家庭已经支离破碎了。”你漂亮的小朋友会多么伤心啊；嘿，贝基？

‘I daresay she’ll recover it,’ Becky said with a smile—and they drove on and talked about something else.
“我敢说她会恢复的，”贝基微笑着说——然后他们继续开车，谈论了别的事情。

Chapter XVIII
第十八章


Who Played on the Piano Captain Dobbin Bought
谁在多宾船长买的钢琴上演奏

Our surprised story now finds itself for a moment among very famous events and personages, and hanging on to the skirts of history. When the eagles of Napoleon Bonaparte, the Corsican upstart, were flying from Provence, where they had perched after a brief sojourn in Elba, and from steeple to steeple until they reached the towers of Notre Dame, I wonder whether the Imperial birds had any eye for a little corner of the parish of Bloomsbury, London, which you might have thought so quiet, that even the whirring and flapping of those mighty wings would pass unobserved there?
我们令人惊讶的故事现在暂时出现在非常著名的事件和人物中，并挂在历史的边缘。当科西嘉暴发户拿破仑·波拿巴的鹰从普罗旺斯飞来时，它们在厄尔巴岛短暂停留后栖息在那里，从一个尖塔飞到另一个尖塔，直到到达巴黎圣母院的塔楼时，我想知道帝国的鸟是否有眼睛伦敦布卢姆斯伯里教区的一个小角落，你可能会认为那里非常安静，甚至那些强大的翅膀的呼呼声和拍打声也不会被注意到？

‘Napoleon has landed at Cannes.’ Such news might create a panic at Vienna, and cause Russia to drop his cards, and take Prussia into a corner, and Talleyrand and Metternich to wag their heads together, while Prince Hardenberg, and even the present Marquis of Londonderry, were puzzled; but how was this intelligence to affect a young lady in Russell Square, before whose door the watchman sang the hours when she was asleep: who, if she strolled in the square, was guarded there by the railings and the beadle: who, if she walked ever so short a distance to buy a ribbon in Southampton Row, was followed by Black Sambo with an enormous cane: who was always cared for, dressed, put to bed, and watched over by ever so many guardian angels, with and without wages? Bon Dieu, I say, is it not hard that the fateful rush of the great Imperial struggle can’t take place without affecting a poor little harmless girl of eighteen, who is occupied in billing and cooing, or working muslin collars in Russell Square? You too, kindly, homely flower!—is the great roaring war tempest coming to sweep you down, here, although cowering under the shelter of Holborn? Yes; Napoleon is flinging his last stake, and poor little Emmy Sedley’s happiness forms, somehow, part of it.
“拿破仑登陆戛纳了。”这样的消息可能会引起维也纳的恐慌，让俄罗斯放弃底牌，把普鲁士逼到墙角，塔列朗和梅特涅一起摇头，而哈登堡亲王，甚至现在伦敦德里侯爵感到很困惑；但是，这种智慧对罗素广场上的一位年轻女士有何影响？当她熟睡时，看守人在她的门前唱着报时的歌：如果她在广场上散步，她就会受到栏杆和执事的看守：如果她在广场上散步，她就会受到栏杆和执事的看守：如果她在南安普敦街步行很短的距离去买一条丝带，后面跟着的是拿着一根巨大手杖的黑桑博：他总是受到无数守护天使的照顾、穿衣、睡觉和看护，无论有没有工资？ Bon Dieu，我说，伟大的帝国斗争的决定性的冲刺不可能不影响一个十八岁的可怜的无害的小女孩，她忙于账单和咕咕声，或者在罗素广场工作平纹细布项圈，这不是很难吗？你也是，善良、朴素的花朵！——尽管你蜷缩在霍尔本的庇护下，但咆哮的战争风暴正在将你席卷而至吗？是的;拿破仑正在扔下他最后的赌注，而可怜的小艾美·塞德利的幸福不知何故也成为了其中的一部分。

In the first place, her father’s fortune was swept down with that fatal news. All his speculations had of late gone wrong with the luckless old gentleman. Ventures had failed; merchants had broken; funds had risen when he calculated they would fall. What need to particularize? If success is rare and slow, everybody knows how quick and easy ruin is. Old Sedley had kept his own sad counsel. Everything seemed to go on as usual in the quiet, opulent house; the good-natured mistress pursuing, quite unsuspiciously, her bustling idleness, and daily easy avocations; the daughter absorbed still in one selfish, tender thought, and quite regardless of all the world besides, when that final crash came, under which the worthy family fell.
首先，她父亲的财产因这个致命消息而一落千丈。他所有的猜测最近都在这位倒霉的老绅士身上出错了。风险投资失败了；商人破产了；当他预计资金会下跌时，资金却上涨了。需要具体说明什么吗？如果成功是罕见且缓慢的，那么每个人都知道毁灭是多么快和容易。老塞德利保留了他自己的悲伤忠告。在这座安静、富丽堂皇的房子里，一切似乎都一如往常。心地善良的女主人毫不怀疑地追求她忙碌的闲散和日常轻松的爱好。当最后的崩溃到来时，这个值得尊敬的家庭崩溃了，女儿仍然沉浸在一种自私、温柔的思想中，完全不顾一切。

One night Mrs. Sedley was writing cards for a party; the Osbornes had given one, and she must not be behindhand; John Sedley, who had come home very late from the City, sate silent at the chimney side, while his wife was prattling to him; Emmy had gone up to her room ailing and low-spirited. ‘She’s not happy,’ the mother went on. ‘George Osborne neglects her. I’ve no patience with the airs of those people. The girls have not been in the house these three weeks; and George has been twice in town without coming. Edward Dale saw him at the Opera. Edward would marry her I’m sure: and there’s Captain Dobbin who, I think, would—only I hate all army men. Such a dandy as George has become. With his military airs, indeed! We must show some folks that we’re as good as they. Only give Edward Dale any encouragement, and you’ll see. We must have a party, Mr. S. Why don’t you speak, John? Shall I say Tuesday fortnight? Why don’t you answer? Good God, John, what has happened?’
一天晚上，塞德利夫人正在为一场聚会写卡片。奥斯本家族已经给了一个，她一定不能落后。约翰·塞德利从城里回来很晚，他默默地坐在烟囱边，而他的妻子正在对他喋喋不休。埃米带着病痛和情绪低落回到了自己的房间。 “她不高兴，”母亲继续说道。 “乔治·奥斯本忽视了她。我对那些人的神态没有耐心。女孩们已经三周没有呆在家里了。乔治已经进城两次了，却没有来。爱德华·戴尔在歌剧院见到了他。我确信爱德华会娶她：还有多宾上尉，我想她也会的——只是我讨厌所有军人。乔治已经成为这样一个花花公子了。确实有他的军人气质！我们必须向一些人表明我们和他们一样优秀。只要给爱德华·戴尔任何鼓励，你就会看到。我们必须举办一个聚会，S 先生。约翰，你为什么不说话呢？我可以说两周星期二吗？你为什么不回答？天哪，约翰，发生了什么事？

John Sedley sprang up out of his chair to meet his wife, who ran to him. He seized her in his arms, and said with a hasty voice, ‘We’re ruined, Mary. We’ve got the world to begin over again, dear. It’s best that you should know all, and at once.’ As he spoke, he trembled in every limb, and almost fell. He thought the news would have overpowered his wife—his wife, to whom he had never said a hard word. But it was he that was the most moved, sudden as the shock was to her. When he sank back into his seat, it was the wife that took the office of consoler. She took his trembling hand, and kissed it, and put it round her neck: she called him her John—her dear John—her old man—her kind old man; she poured out a hundred words of incoherent love and tenderness; her faithful voice and simple caresses wrought this sad heart up to an inexpressible delight and anguish, and cheered and solaced his over-burdened soul.
约翰·塞德利从椅子上跳起来迎接他的妻子，她跑向他。他把她抱在怀里，急促地说：“我们完蛋了，玛丽。”亲爱的，我们的世界要重新开始。你最好立刻知道一切。”说话时，他四肢颤抖，差点摔倒。他认为这个消息会压倒他的妻子——他的妻子，他从未对她说过一句难听的话。但最让她感动的是他，尽管她的震惊是突然的。当他坐回座位时，妻子接替了安慰者的位置。她握住他颤抖的手，亲吻它，然后把它挂在自己的脖子上：她称他为她的约翰——她亲爱的约翰——她的老人——她仁慈的老人；她称他为“约翰”。她倾诉了一百个语无伦次的爱与温柔的话语；她忠实的声音和朴素的爱抚，让这颗悲伤的心升起一种难以言喻的喜悦和痛苦，让他负担过重的心灵得到鼓舞和安慰。

Only once in the course of the long night as they sate together, and poor Sedley opened his pent-up soul, and told the story of his losses and embarrassments—the treason of some of his oldest friends, the manly kindness of some, from whom he never could have expected it—in a general confession—only once did the faithful wife give way to emotion.
只有一次，在漫长的夜晚，当他们坐在一起时，可怜的塞德利打开了他被压抑的灵魂，讲述了他的损失和尴尬的故事——他的一些老朋友的背叛，一些人的男子气概的善良，从他万万没想到——在一般性的坦白中——这位忠实的妻子只有一次情绪激动。

‘My God, my God, it will break Emmy’s heart,’ she said.
“我的上帝，我的上帝，这会让艾美心碎，”她说。

The father had forgotten the poor girl. She was lying, awake and unhappy, overhead. In the midst of friends, home, and kind parents, she was alone. To how many people can any one tell all? Who will be open where there is no sympathy, or has call to speak to those who never can understand? Our gentle Amelia was thus solitary. She had no confidante, so to speak, ever since she had anything to confide. She could not tell the old mother her doubts and cares; the would-be sisters seemed every day more strange to her. And she had misgivings and fears which she dared not acknowledge to herself, though she was always secretly brooding over them.
父亲忘记了这个可怜的女孩。她躺在头顶上，醒着，心情不快。在朋友、家庭和慈祥的父母中间，她是孤独的。一个人能向多少人讲述一切？在没有同情心的情况下，谁会敞开心扉，或者呼吁与那些永远无法理解的人交谈呢？我们温柔的阿米莉亚就这样孤独了。可以说，她没有什么红颜知己，因为她有什么可以倾诉的。她无法向老母亲诉说自己的疑惑和关心；那些未来的姐妹对她来说似乎一天比一天陌生。她心里也有一些不敢承认的疑虑和恐惧，尽管她总是暗自思念着它们。

Her heart tried to persist in asserting that George Osborne was worthy and faithful to her, though she knew otherwise. How many a thing had she said, and got no echo from him. How many suspicions of selfishness and indifference had she to encounter and obstinately overcome. To whom could the poor little martyr tell these daily struggles and tortures? Her hero himself only half understood her. She did not dare to own that the man she loved was her inferior; or to feel that she had given her heart away too soon. Given once, the pure bashful maiden was too modest, too tender, too trustful, too weak, too much woman to recall it. We are Turks with the affections of our women; and have made them subscribe to our doctrine too. We let their bodies go abroad liberally enough, with smiles and ringlets and pink bonnets to disguise them instead of veils and yakmaks. But their souls must be seen by only one man, and they obey not unwillingly, and consent to remain at home as our slaves— ministering to us and doing drudgery for us.
她的内心试图坚持认为乔治·奥斯本是值得的并且对她忠诚，尽管她知道事实并非如此。她说了多少话，却没有得到他的回应。她曾遭遇过多少自私和冷漠的怀疑，并被她顽强地克服。这位可怜的小烈士能向谁诉说这些日常的挣扎和折磨呢？她的英雄本人对她只了解一半。她不敢承认自己所爱的男人不如自己；或者觉得她太早放弃了自己的心。曾经的那个纯洁害羞的少女太谦虚、太温柔、太信任、太软弱、太女人味，让人记不清了。我们是土耳其人，有着我们女人的感情；并让他们也认同我们的教义。我们足够自由地让他们的身体走出国门，用微笑、卷发和粉色帽子来掩饰他们，而不是面纱和牦牛帽。但他们的灵魂只能被一个人看到，他们也不会不情愿地服从，并同意留在家里作为我们的奴隶——为我们服务，为我们做苦差事。

So imprisoned and tortured was this gentle little heart, when in the month of March, Anno Domini 1815, Napoleon landed at Cannes, and Louis XVIII fled, and all Europe was in alarm, and the funds fell, and old John Sedley was ruined.
1815年三月，拿破仑登陆戛纳，路易十八出逃，整个欧洲陷入恐慌，资金锐减，老约翰·塞德利身败名裂，这颗温柔的小心就这样被囚禁和折磨。

We are not going to follow the worthy old stockbroker through those last pangs and agonies of ruin through which he passed before his commercial demise befell. They declared him at the Stock Exchange; he was absent from his house of business: his bills were protested: his act of bankruptcy formal. The house and furniture of Russell Square were seized and sold up, and he and his family were thrust away, as we have seen, to hide their heads where they might.
我们不会跟随这位可敬的老股票经纪人经历他在商业破产之前所经历的最后的痛苦和毁灭的痛苦。他们在证券交易所宣布了他的任命；他不在他的公司：他的账单遭到抗议：他的破产行为正式。罗素广场的房子和家具被没收并卖掉，他和他的家人也被赶走，正如我们所见，他们的头尽可能地藏起来。

John Sedley had not the heart to review the domestic establishment who have appeared now and anon in our pages and of whom he was now forced by poverty to take leave. The wages of those worthy people were discharged with that punctuality which men frequently show who only owe in great sums—they were sorry to leave good places—but they did not break their hearts at parting from their adored master and mistress. Amelia’s maid was profuse in condolences, but went off quite resigned to better herself in a genteeler quarter of the town. Black Sambo, with the infatuation of his profession, determined on setting up a public-house. Honest old Mrs. Blenkinsop indeed, who had seen the birth of Jos and Amelia, and the wooing of John Sedley and his wife, was for staying by them without wages, having amassed a considerable sum in their service: and she accompanied the fallen people into their new and humble place of refuge, where she tended them and grumbled against them for a while.
约翰·塞德利不忍心回顾那些时不时出现在我们页面上的国内机构，而他现在却因贫困而被迫离开。这些值得尊敬的人的工资准时发放，就像人们经常表现出的那样，他们只欠了一大笔钱——他们很遗憾离开了好地方——但他们在与他们敬爱的主人和情妇分开时并没有伤心。阿米莉亚的女仆对她表示了极大的哀悼，但为了在镇上一个比较有教养的地方过上更好的生活，她很无奈地离开了。黑三宝怀着对职业的痴迷，决心开办一家酒馆。诚实的老布伦金索普夫人确实目睹了乔斯和阿米莉亚的出生，以及约翰·塞德利和他妻子的求爱，她不拿工资留在他们身边，为他们的服务积累了相当多的钱：她陪伴着倒下的人们进入他们新的、简陋的避难所，她在那里照顾他们，并对他们抱怨了一会儿。

Of all Sedley’s opponents in his debates with his creditors which now ensued, and harassed the feelings of the humiliated old gentleman so severely, that in six weeks he oldened more than he had done for fifteen years before—the most determined and obstinate seemed to be John Osborne, his old friend and neighbour—John Osborne, whom he had set up in life—who was under a hundred obligations to him—and whose son was to marry Sedley’s daughter. Any one of these circumstances would account for the bitterness of Osborne’s opposition.
在塞德利与债权人辩论的所有反对者中，这位被羞辱的老绅士的感情受到了如此严重的伤害，以至于在六个星期内，他比十五年前更老了——最坚定和最顽固的似乎是约翰·奥斯本，他的老朋友和邻居——约翰·奥斯本，他在生活中设​​立的人——对他负有一百项义务——他的儿子将娶塞德利的女儿。任何一种情况都会导致奥斯本的强烈反对。

When one man has been under very remarkable obligations to another, with whom he subsequently quarrels, a common sense of decency, as it were, makes of the former a much severer enemy than a mere stranger would be. To account for your own hard-heartedness and ingratitude in such a case, you are bound to prove the other party’s crime. It is not that you are selfish, brutal, and angry at the failure of a speculation—no, no—it is that your partner has led you into it by the basest treachery and with the most sinister motives. From a mere sense of consistency, a persecutor is bound to show that the fallen man is a villain—otherwise he, the persecutor, is a wretch himself.
当一个人对另一个人负有非常重大的义务，而他随后又与另一个人发生争吵时，一种常识性的正派感可以说，使前者成为比单纯的陌生人更严重的敌人。在这种情况下，你要对自己的狠心和忘恩负义负责，就必须证明对方的罪行。这并不是说你自私、残忍，对投机的失败感到愤怒——不，不——而是你的伴侣以最卑鄙的背叛和最险恶的动机将你引向了投机的失败。仅仅从一致性的角度来看，迫害者必然会表明堕落的人是一个恶棍——否则他，迫害者本身就是一个可怜虫。

And as a general rule, which may make all creditors who are inclined to be severe pretty comfortable in their minds, no men embarrassed are altogether honest, very likely. They conceal something; they exaggerate chances of good luck; hide away the real state of affairs; say that things are flourishing when they are hopeless, keep a smiling face (a dreary smile it is) upon the verge of bankruptcy—are ready to lay hold of any pretext for delay or of any money, so as to stave off the inevitable ruin a few days longer. ‘Down with such dishonesty,’ says the creditor in triumph, and reviles his sinking enemy. ‘You fool, why do you catch at a straw?’ calm good sense says to the man that is drowning. ‘You villain, why do you shrink from plunging into the irretrievable Gazette?’ says prosperity to the poor devil battling in that black gulf. Who has not remarked the readiness with which the closest of friends and honestest of men suspect and accuse each other of cheating when they fall out on money matters? Everybody does it. Everybody is right, I suppose, and the world is a rogue.
作为一般规则，这可能会让所有倾向于严厉的债权人心里感到很舒服，但没有一个感到尴尬的人很可能是完全诚实的。他们隐瞒了一些事情；他们夸大了好运的机会；隐藏真实的事态；绝望时说繁荣，濒临破产时保持微笑（这是一种沉闷的微笑）——准备好抓住任何借口拖延或任何金钱，以避免不可避免的毁灭再多几天。 “打倒这种不诚实的行为，”债权人得意洋洋地说，并辱骂他正在下沉的敌人。 “你这个傻瓜，为什么要抓住一根稻草呢？”冷静而理智的人对溺水者说道。 “你这个恶棍，你为什么不敢跳进那无法挽回的公报？”繁荣对那个在黑色海湾中战斗的可怜恶魔说道。谁没有注意到，最亲密的朋友和最诚实的人在因金钱问题发生争执时，会随时怀疑并指责对方欺骗？每个人都这样做。我想每个人都是对的，而世界却是一个无赖。

Then Osborne had the intolerable sense of former benefits to goad and irritate him: these are always a cause of hostility aggravated. Finally, he had to break off the match between Sedley’s daughter and his son; and as it had gone very far indeed, and as the poor girl’s happiness and perhaps character were compromised, it was necessary to show the strongest reasons for the rupture, and for John Osborne to prove John Sedley to be a very bad character indeed.
然后，奥斯本对以前的好处产生了一种难以忍受的感觉，这些好处刺激和激怒了他：这些总是加剧敌意的原因。最后，他不得不终止塞德利女儿和儿子的婚事；由于事情确实已经走得太远，可怜的女孩的幸福甚至性格都受到了损害，因此有必要表明破裂的最有力原因，并让约翰·奥斯本证明约翰·塞德利确实是一个非常糟糕的性格。

At the meetings of creditors, then, he comported himself with a savageness and scorn towards Sedley, which almost succeeded in breaking the heart of that ruined bankrupt man. On George’s intercourse with Amelia he put an instant veto—menacing the youth with maledictions if he broke his commands, and vilipending the poor innocent girl as the basest and most artful of vixens. One of the great conditions of anger and hatred is, that you must tell and believe lies against the hated object, in order, as we said, to be consistent.
于是，在债权人会议上，他对塞德利表现出野蛮和蔑视，这几乎成功地伤了这个破产破产者的心。对于乔治与阿米莉亚的交往，他立即予以否决——如果这个年轻人违反了他的命令，他就会用咒骂来威胁他，并谩骂这个可怜的无辜女孩，说他是最卑鄙、最狡猾的泼妇。愤怒和仇恨的重要条件之一是，你必须说出并相信针对仇恨对象的谎言，以便如我们所说，保持一致。

When the great crash came—the announcement of ruin, and the departure from Russell Square, and the declaration that all was over between her and George—all over between her and love, her and happiness, her and faith in the world—a brutal letter from John Osborne told her in a few curt lines that her father’s conduct had been of such a nature that all engagements between the families were at an end—when the final award came, it did not shock her so much as her parents, as her mother rather expected (for John Sedley himself was entirely prostrate in the ruins of his own affairs and shattered honour). Amelia took the news very palely and calmly. It was only the confirmation of the dark presages which had long gone before. It was the mere reading of the sentence—of the crime she had long ago been guilty—the crime of loving wrongly, too violently, against reason. She told no more of her thoughts now than she had before. She seemed scarcely more unhappy now when convinced all hope was over, than before when she felt but dared not confess that it was gone. So she changed from the large house to the small one without any mark or difference; remained in her little room for the most part; pined silently; and died away day by day. I do not mean to say that all females are so. My dear Miss Bullock, I do not think your heart would break in this way. You are a strong-minded young woman with proper principles. I do not venture to say that mine would; it has suffered, and, it must be confessed, survived. But there are some souls thus gently constituted, thus frail, and delicate, and tender.
当巨大的崩溃到来时——宣布毁灭，离开罗素广场，宣布她和乔治之间的一切都结束了——她和爱，她和幸福，她和对世界的信仰之间的一切都结束了——约翰·奥斯本的来信用几行简短的话告诉她，她父亲的行为已经到了这种程度，以至于家庭之间的所有交往都结束了——当最终的奖项到来时，她并没有像她的父母那样震惊，因为她的母亲颇为期待（因为约翰·塞德利本人完全屈服于他自己的事务和破碎的荣誉的废墟中）。阿米莉亚听到这个消息时脸色苍白而平静。这只是对早已消失的黑暗预兆的证实。这仅仅是对这句话的解读——她很久以前就犯下的罪行——错误地、过于暴力地、违背理性地爱的罪行。她现在没有比以前更多地讲述自己的想法。现在，当她确信所有的希望都破灭时，她似乎并不比以前感到​​但又不敢承认希望破灭时更不高兴。于是她就从大房子换成了小房子，没有任何标记，没有任何区别；大部分时间都呆在她的小房间里。默默地憔悴；并一天天地死去。我并不是说所有女性都是如此。我亲爱的布洛克小姐，我不认为你的心会以这种方式破碎。你是一个有主见、有原则的年轻女性。我不敢说我​​会的；它遭受了苦难，而且必须承认，它幸存了下来。但也有一些灵魂如此温柔地构成，如此脆弱、脆弱、温柔。

Whenever old John Sedley thought of the affair between George and Amelia, or alluded to it, it was with bitterness almost as great as Mr. Osborne himself had shown. He cursed Osborne and his family as heartless, wicked, and ungrateful. No power on earth, he swore, would induce him to marry his daughter to the son of such a villain, and he ordered Emmy to banish George from her mind, and to return all the presents and letters which she had ever had from him.
每当老约翰·塞德利想到乔治和阿米莉亚之间的风流韵事，或者提到它时，他的痛苦几乎和奥斯本先生本人所表现出的一样强烈。他咒骂奥斯本和他的家人无情、邪恶、忘恩负义。他发誓，世界上没有任何力量会诱使他将自己的女儿嫁给这样一个恶棍的儿子，他命令艾美将乔治从她的脑海中驱逐出去，并归还她从他那里得到的所有礼物和信件。

She promised acquiescence, and tried to obey. She put up the two or three trinkets: and, as for the letters, she drew them out of the place where she kept them; and read them over—as if she did not know them by heart already: but she could not part with them. That effort was too much for her; she placed them back in her bosom again—as you have seen a woman nurse a child that is dead. Young Amelia felt that she would die or lose her senses outright, if torn away from this last consolation. How she used to blush and lighten up when those letters came! How she used to trip away with a beating heart, so that she might read unseen! If they were cold, yet how perversely this fond little soul interpreted them into warmth. If they were short or selfish, what excuses she found for the writer!
她答应默许，并试图服从。她把两三个小饰品放了起来，至于那些信件，她把它们从原来放它们的地方拿出来。她把它们读了一遍——就好像她还没有记住它们一样：但她无法与它们分开。这种努力对她来说太过分了。她又把它们放回怀里——就像你看到一个女人护理一个死去的孩子一样。年轻的阿米莉亚觉得，如果脱离这最后的安慰，她就会死掉或者彻底失去知觉。当那些信来的时候，她是多么的脸红和轻松啊！她过去常常怀着一颗跳动的心走开，这样她就可以在别人看不见的情况下读书！如果它们是冷的，那么这个可爱的小灵魂却多么反常地将它们转化为温暖。如果他们短小或自私，她会为作家找到什么借口！

It was over these few worthless papers that she brooded and brooded. She lived in her past life—every letter seemed to recall some circumstance of it. How well she remembered them all! His looks and tones, his dress, what he said and how—these relics and remembrances of dead affection were all that were left her in the world. And the business of her life, was—to watch the corpse of Love.
她就是为了这几张毫无价值的论文而苦思冥想。她还活在前世，每封信似乎都在回忆着前世的一些情景。她把他们都记得多么清楚啊！他的容貌和语气，他的衣着，他说的话和怎么说——这些遗物和逝去的感情的记忆，就是她留在这个世界上的一切。而她一生的事业就是——观看爱的尸体。

To death she looked with inexpressible longing. Then, she thought, I shall always be able to follow him. I am not praising her conduct or setting her up as a model for Miss Bullock to imitate. Miss B. knows how to regulate her feelings better than this poor little creature. Miss B. would never have committed herself as that imprudent Amelia had done; pledged her love irretrievably; confessed her heart away, and got back nothing—only a brittle promise which was snapt and worthless in a moment. A long engagement is a partnership which one party is free to keep or to break, but which involves all the capital of the other.
她对死亡充满了难以言喻的渴望。那样，她想，我就可以永远追随他了。我并不是在赞扬她的行为，也不是把她树立为布洛克小姐效仿的榜样。 B小姐比这个可怜的小生物更懂得如何调节自己的感情。 B小姐绝不会像那个轻率的阿米莉亚那样做出承诺；向她承诺了不可挽回的爱；倾诉了心声，却一无所获——只有一个脆弱的承诺，转瞬即逝，毫无价值。长期订婚是一种合伙关系，一方可以自由保留或终止，但涉及另一方的全部资本。

Be cautious then, young ladies; be wary how you engage. Be shy of loving frankly; never tell all you feel, or (a better way still), feel very little. See the consequences of being prematurely honest and confiding, and mistrust yourselves and everybody. Get yourselves married as they do in France, where the lawyers are the bridesmaids and confidantes. At any rate, never have any feelings which may make you uncomfortable, or make any promises which you cannot at any required moment command and withdraw. That is the way to get on, and be respected, and have a virtuous character in Vanity Fair.
那么，年轻女士们，请务必小心；小心你的参与方式。羞于坦诚相爱；永远不要说出你的全部感受，或者（更好的方式）感受很少。看到过早诚实和信任的后果，不信任自己和每个人。像在法国那样结婚，律师是伴娘和红颜知己。无论如何，永远不要有任何可能让你不舒服的感觉，也不要做出任何你无法在任何需要的时刻控制和撤回的承诺。这就是在《名利场》中获得成功、受到尊重、拥有高尚品格的方法。

If Amelia could have heard the comments regarding her which were made in the circle from which her father’s ruin had just driven her, she would have seen what her own crimes were, and how entirely her character was jeopardised. Such criminal imprudence Mrs. Smith never knew of; such horrid familiarities Mrs. Brown had always condemned, and the end might be a warning to HER daughters. ‘Captain Osborne, of course, could not marry a bankrupt’s daughter,’ the Misses Dobbin said. ‘It was quite enough to have been swindled by the father. As for that little Amelia, her folly had really passed all—‘
如果阿米莉亚能够听到在她父亲的毁灭刚刚将她赶出的圈子里对她的评论，她就会看到她自己的罪行是什么，以及她的人格受到了多大的损害。史密斯夫人从来不知道这种轻率的犯罪行为；布朗夫人一直谴责这种可怕的熟悉行为，而结局可能是对她女儿们的一个警告。 “奥斯本船长当然不能娶一个破产者的女儿，”多宾小姐说。 ‘被父亲骗了就够了。至于那个小阿米莉亚，她的愚蠢行为真的已经过去了——”

‘All what?’ Captain Dobbin roared out. ‘Haven’t they been engaged ever since they were children? Wasn’t it as good as a marriage? Dare any soul on earth breathe a word against the sweetest, the purest, the tenderest, the most angelical of young women?’
“什么？”多宾船长吼道。 “他们不是从小就订婚了吗？这不就和结婚一样美好了吗？地球上有哪个灵魂敢对最甜蜜、最纯洁、最温柔、最天使般的年轻女性说一句话吗？

‘La, William, don’t be so highty-tighty with US. We’re not men. We can’t fight you,’ Miss Jane said. ‘We’ve said nothing against Miss Sedley: but that her conduct throughout was MOST IMPRUDENT, not to call it by any worse name; and that her parents are people who certainly merit their misfortunes.’
‘啦，威廉，别对美国那么紧张。我们不是男人。我们斗不过你。”简小姐说。 “我们没有对塞德利小姐说过任何话：但她自始至终的行为都是最不谨慎的，更不用说更糟糕的称呼了；”她的父母是那些不幸的人。

‘Hadn’t you better, now that Miss Sedley is free, propose for her yourself, William?’ Miss Ann asked sarcastically. ‘It would be a most eligible family connection. He! he!’
“现在塞德利小姐有空了，你自己向她求婚不是更好吗，威廉？”安小姐讽刺地问道。 “这将是最合适的家庭联系。他！他！'

‘I marry her!’ Dobbin said, blushing very much, and talking quick. ‘If you are so ready, young ladies, to chop and change, do you suppose that she is? Laugh and sneer at that angel. She can’t hear it; and she’s miserable and unfortunate, and deserves to be laughed at. Go on joking, Ann. You’re the wit of the family, and the others like to hear it.’
“我娶了她！”多宾说，脸涨得通红，语速很快。 “年轻的女士们，如果你们已经做好了改变的准备，那么你们认为她也准备好了吗？”嘲笑那个天使。她听不到；而她又悲惨又不幸，值得被嘲笑。继续开玩笑吧，安。你是家里的智者，其他人都喜欢听。

‘I must tell you again we’re not in a barrack, William,’ Miss Ann remarked.
“我必须再次告诉你，我们不在军营里，威廉，”安小姐说道。

‘In a barrack, by Jove—I wish anybody in a barrack would say what you do,’ cried out this uproused British lion. ‘I should like to hear a man breathe a word against her, by Jupiter. But men don’t talk in this way, Ann: it’s only women, who get together and hiss, and shriek, and cackle. There, get away—don’t begin to cry. I only said you were a couple of geese,’ Will Dobbin said, perceiving Miss Ann’s pink eyes were beginning to moisten as usual. ‘Well, you’re not geese, you’re swans—anything you like, only do, do leave Miss Sedley alone.’
“在军营里，天哪——我希望军营里的任何人都能说出你所做的事情，”这只被激怒的英国狮子大声喊道。 “我希望听到一个男人在朱庇特面前对她说一句话。但男人不会这样说话，安：只有女人才会聚在一起发出嘶嘶声、尖叫声和咯咯笑声。好了，走开——别哭了。我只是说你们是一对鹅，”威尔·多宾说道，他发现安小姐粉红色的眼睛像往常一样开始湿润。 “好吧，你不是鹅，你是天鹅——你想做什么就做什么，但别打扰塞德利小姐。”

Anything like William’s infatuation about that silly little flirting, ogling thing was never known, the mamma and sisters agreed together in thinking: and they trembled lest, her engagement being off with Osborne, she should take up immediately her other admirer and Captain. In which forebodings these worthy young women no doubt judged according to the best of their experience; or rather (for as yet they had had no opportunities of marrying or of jilting) according to their own notions of right and wrong.
像威廉对那个愚蠢的调情、抛媚眼的小东西的迷恋是从来不为人所知的，妈妈和姐妹们一致认为：他们颤抖着，生怕她与奥斯本的订婚结束了，她应该立即接受她的另一个仰慕者和船长。这些可敬的年轻女性无疑是根据她们最丰富的经验来判断的。或者更确切地说（因为到目前为止，他们还没有结婚或抛弃的机会）根据他们自己的是非观念。

‘It is a mercy, Mamma, that the regiment is ordered abroad,’ the girls said. ‘THIS danger, at any rate, is spared our brother.’
“妈妈，这支部队被派往国外，这真是一件幸事，”女孩们说。 “无论如何，我们的兄弟躲过了这种危险。”

Such, indeed, was the fact; and so it is that the French Emperor comes in to perform a part in this domestic comedy of Vanity Fair which we are now playing, and which would never have been enacted without the intervention of this august mute personage. It was he that ruined the Bourbons and Mr. John Sedley. It was he whose arrival in his capital called up all France in arms to defend him there; and all Europe to oust him. While the French nation and army were swearing fidelity round the eagles in the Champ de Mars, four mighty European hosts were getting in motion for the great chasse a l’aigle; and one of these was a British army, of which two heroes of ours, Captain Dobbin and Captain Osborne, formed a portion.
事实确实如此。就这样，法国皇帝在我们现在正在上演的这部《名利场》的国产喜剧中出场，如果没有这位庄严的哑巴人物的介入，这部喜剧永远不会上演。正是他毁了波旁家族和约翰·塞德利先生。正是他抵达首都，号召全法国武装起来保卫他。和整个欧洲驱逐他。当法国国家和军队在战神广场上对着老鹰宣誓效忠时，四支强大的欧洲东道主正在为伟大的猎鹰行动做好准备；其中一支是英国军队，其中有我们的两位英雄，多宾上尉和奥斯本上尉。

The news of Napoleon’s escape and landing was received by the gallant —th with a fiery delight and enthusiasm, which everybody can understand who knows that famous corps. From the colonel to the smallest drummer in the regiment, all were filled with hope and ambition and patriotic fury; and thanked the French Emperor as for a personal kindness in coming to disturb the peace of Europe. Now was the time the —th had so long panted for, to show their comrades in arms that they could fight as well as the Peninsular veterans, and that all the pluck and valour of the —th had not been killed by the West Indies and the yellow fever. Stubble and Spooney looked to get their companies without purchase. Before the end of the campaign (which she resolved to share), Mrs. Major O’Dowd hoped to write herself Mrs. Colonel O’Dowd, C.B. Our two friends (Dobbin and Osborne) were quite as much excited as the rest: and each in his way—Mr. Dobbin very quietly, Mr. Osborne very loudly and energetically—was bent upon doing his duty, and gaining his share of honour and distinction.
拿破仑逃亡和登陆的消息得到了英勇的军队的热烈欢迎和热情，任何了解这支著名军团的人都能理解这一点。团里从上校到最小的鼓手，每个人都充满希望、雄心和爱国热情；并感谢法国皇帝亲自前来扰乱欧洲的和平。现在是时候了，他们一直渴望向他们的战友展示他们可以像半岛老兵一样战斗，而且他们的所有勇气和勇气并没有被西印度群岛和西印度群岛杀死。黄热病。斯塔布尔和斯普尼希望在不被收购的情况下获得他们的公司。在竞选结束之前（她决定分享这一活动），奥多德少校夫人希望给自己写一封信：奥多德上校夫人，C.B。我们的两个朋友（多宾和奥斯本）和其他人一样兴奋：各有各的方式——先生。多宾非常安静，奥斯本先生则非常大声和精力充沛，一心致力于履行他的职责，并获得他应得的荣誉和荣誉。

The agitation thrilling through the country and army in consequence of this news was so great, that private matters were little heeded: and hence probably George Osborne, just gazetted to his company, busy with preparations for the march, which must come inevitably, and panting for further promotion—was not so much affected by other incidents which would have interested him at a more quiet period. He was not, it must be confessed, very much cast down by good old Mr. Sedley’s catastrophe. He tried his new uniform, which became him very handsomely, on the day when the first meeting of the creditors of the unfortunate gentleman took place. His father told him of the wicked, rascally, shameful conduct of the bankrupt, reminded him of what he had said about Amelia, and that their connection was broken off for ever; and gave him that evening a good sum of money to pay for the new clothes and epaulets in which he looked so well. Money was always useful to this free-handed young fellow, and he took it without many words. The bills were up in the Sedley house, where he had passed so many, many happy hours. He could see them as he walked from home that night (to the Old Slaughters’, where he put up when in town) shining white in the moon. That comfortable home was shut, then, upon Amelia and her parents: where had they taken refuge? The thought of their ruin affected him not a little. He was very melancholy that night in the coffee-room at the Slaughters’; and drank a good deal, as his comrades remarked there.
这个消息在全国和军队中引起了如此巨大的骚动，以至于私人事务很少受到关注：因此，乔治·奥斯本可能只是在公报上向他的连队发布公告，忙于准备不可避免的行军，气喘吁吁进一步晋升——并没有受到其他事件的太大影响，这些事件在一个更安静的时期会让他感兴趣。必须承认，他并没有因为好心的塞德利老先生的灾难而感到非常沮丧。在这位不幸的绅士的债权人第一次会议召开的那天，他试穿了他的新制服，这件制服非常适合他。他的父亲告诉他破产者的邪恶、无赖、可耻的行为，提醒他他说过关于阿米莉亚的话，并且他们的联系永远断绝了。那天晚上，他给了他一大笔钱，让他买了新衣服和新肩章，因为他穿起来看起来很漂亮。钱对于这个自由自在的年轻人来说总是有用的，他没有多说什么就拿走了它。塞德利家的账单已经上涨，他在那里度过了很多很多快乐的时光。那天晚上，当他从家步行到老屠夫家时，他可以看到它们在月光下闪闪发光。那么，那个舒适的家对阿米莉亚和她的父母来说是关闭的：他们到哪里避难呢？一想到他们的毁灭，他就受到了不小的影响。那天晚上，他在斯劳特夫妇的咖啡室里心情非常忧郁。正如他的战友们所说，他喝了很多酒。

Dobbin came in presently, cautioned him about the drink, which he only took, he said, because he was deuced low; but when his friend began to put to him clumsy inquiries, and asked him for news in a significant manner, Osborne declined entering into conversation with him, avowing, however, that he was devilish disturbed and unhappy.
多宾很快就进来了，提醒他不要喝这杯酒，他说，因为他被贬低了，所以才喝了酒。但当他的朋友开始向他提出笨拙的询问，并以一种意味深长的方式向他询问消息时，奥斯本拒绝与他交谈，但承认他感到非常不安和不高兴。

Three days afterwards, Dobbin found Osborne in his room at the barracks—his head on the table, a number of papers about, the young Captain evidently in a state of great despondency. ‘She—she’s sent me back some things I gave her—some damned trinkets. Look here!’ There was a little packet directed in the well-known hand to Captain George Osborne, and some things lying about—a ring, a silver knife he had bought, as a boy, for her at a fair; a gold chain, and a locket with hair in it. ‘It’s all over,’ said he, with a groan of sickening remorse. ‘Look, Will, you may read it if you like.’
三天后，多宾在军营的房间里找到了奥斯本——他的头放在桌子上，周围放着一些文件，这位年轻的上尉显然处于极度沮丧的状态。 “她——她把我送给她的一些东西还给了我——一些该死的小饰品。看这里！’有一个小包裹，是出自著名的乔治·奥斯本上尉之手，还有一些东西散落在各处——一枚戒指，一把他小时候在集市上为她买的银刀；一条金链子，还有一个挂着头发的挂坠盒。 “一切都结束了，”他说道，带着令人作呕的悔恨的呻吟。 “听着，威尔，如果你愿意的话，你可以读一下。”

There was a little letter of a few lines, to which he pointed, which said:
他指着一封只有几行字的小信，上面写着：

My papa has ordered me to return to you these presents, which you made in happier days to me; and I am to write to you for the last time. I think, I know you feel as much as I do the blow which has come upon us. It is I that absolve you from an engagement which is impossible in our present misery. I am sure you had no share in it, or in the cruel suspicions of Mr. Osborne, which are the hardest of all our griefs to bear. Farewell. Farewell. I pray God to strengthen me to bear this and other calamities, and to bless you always. A.
我爸爸命令我把这些礼物还给你，这些礼物是你在快乐的日子里送给我的。这是我最后一次给你写信。我想，我知道你和我一样感受到我们遭受的打击。是我免除了你的婚约，而这在我们目前的苦难中是不可能的。我确信你没有参与其中，也没有参与奥斯本先生的残酷怀疑，这是我们所有悲伤中最难以忍受的。告别。告别。我祈求上帝赐予我力量，让我能够承受这场灾难和其他灾难，并永远祝福你们。 A。

I shall often play upon the piano—your piano. It was like you to send it.
我会经常弹奏钢琴——你的钢琴。就像你发送的一样。

Dobbin was very soft-hearted. The sight of women and children in pain always used to melt him. The idea of Amelia broken-hearted and lonely tore that good-natured soul with anguish. And he broke out into an emotion, which anybody who likes may consider unmanly. He swore that Amelia was an angel, to which Osborne said aye with all his heart. He, too, had been reviewing the history of their lives— and had seen her from her childhood to her present age, so sweet, so innocent, so charmingly simple, and artlessly fond and tender.
多宾非常心软。每当看到妇女和儿童遭受痛苦时，他总是会心软。一想到阿米莉亚的心碎和孤独，这个善良的灵魂就痛苦地撕裂了。他爆发了一种情绪，任何喜欢这种情绪的人都可能会认为他缺乏男子气概。他发誓阿米莉亚是天使，奥斯本全心全意地答应了。他也一直在回顾他们的生活史——看到她从童年到现在的年纪，是那么甜蜜，那么天真，那么单纯，那么天真可爱，那么温柔。

What a pang it was to lose all that: to have had it and not prized it! A thousand homely scenes and recollections crowded on him—in which he always saw her good and beautiful. And for himself, he blushed with remorse and shame, as the remembrance of his own selfishness and indifference contrasted with that perfect purity. For a while, glory, war, everything was forgotten, and the pair of friends talked about her only.
失去这一切是多么痛苦：拥有它却不珍惜它！一千个温馨的场景和回忆涌入他的脑海——在这些场景和回忆中，他总是看到她的善良和美丽。而对于他自己来说，他因悔恨和羞愧而脸红，因为他记得自己的自私和冷漠与完美的纯洁形成鲜明对比。一时间，荣耀、战争，一切都被遗忘了，那对好友只谈论她。

‘Where are they?’ Osborne asked, after a long talk, and a long pause—and, in truth, with no little shame at thinking that he had taken no steps to follow her. ‘Where are they? There’s no address to the note.’
“他们在哪儿？”奥斯本在长长的谈话和长时间的停顿之后问道——事实上，他为自己没有采取任何措施来跟踪她而感到不无羞愧。 '他们在哪里？纸条上没有地址。”

Dobbin knew. He had not merely sent the piano; but had written a note to Mrs. Sedley, and asked permission to come and see her—and he had seen her, and Amelia too, yesterday, before he came down to Chatham; and, what is more, he had brought that farewell letter and packet which had so moved them.
多宾知道。他不仅送来了钢琴，还送来了钢琴。但他给塞德利夫人写了一张便条，请求允许来看望她——昨天，在他来到查塔姆之前，他已经见过她了，还有阿米莉亚。更重要的是，他还带来了令他们感动的告别信和包裹。

The good-natured fellow had found Mrs. Sedley only too willing to receive him, and greatly agitated by the arrival of the piano, which, as she conjectured, MUST have come from George, and was a signal of amity on his part. Captain Dobbin did not correct this error of the worthy lady, but listened to all her story of complaints and misfortunes with great sympathy—condoled with her losses and privations, and agreed in reprehending the cruel conduct of Mr. Osborne towards his first benefactor. When she had eased her overflowing bosom somewhat, and poured forth many of her sorrows, he had the courage to ask actually to see Amelia, who was above in her room as usual, and whom her mother led trembling downstairs.
这位好心人发现塞德利夫人非常愿意接待他，并且对钢琴的到来感到非常激动，正如她推测的那样，这架钢琴一定是乔治寄来的，这是他友好的信号。多宾船长并没有纠正这位可敬的女士的这个错误，而是以极大的同情心聆听了她所有的抱怨和不幸的故事——对她的损失和贫困表示哀悼，并同意谴责奥斯本先生对其第一个恩人的残酷行为。当她稍微放松了她那满溢的胸怀，倾吐了许多悲伤时，他就有勇气真正要求见阿米莉亚，她像往常一样在楼上的房间里，她母亲带着她颤抖着下楼。

Her appearance was so ghastly, and her look of despair so pathetic, that honest William Dobbin was frightened as he beheld it; and read the most fatal forebodings in that pale fixed face. After sitting in his company a minute or two, she put the packet into his hand, and said, ‘Take this to Captain Osborne, if you please, and—and I hope he’s quite well—and it was very kind of you to come and see us—and we like our new house very much. And I—I think I’ll go upstairs, Mamma, for I’m not very strong.’ And with this, and a curtsey and a smile, the poor child went her way. The mother, as she led her up, cast back looks of anguish towards Dobbin. The good fellow wanted no such appeal. He loved her himself too fondly for that. Inexpressible grief, and pity, and terror pursued him, and he came away as if he was a criminal after seeing her.
她的样子如此可怕，绝望的神情如此可怜，诚实的威廉·多宾看到这一幕都感到害怕。从那张苍白、僵硬的脸上读出了最致命的预感。在他的陪伴下坐了一两分钟后，她把包裹放在他手里，说道：“如果你愿意的话，把这个交给奥斯本船长，而且——我希望他很好——你能来真是太好了。”看看我们——我们非常喜欢我们的新房子。我——我想我要上楼了，妈妈，因为我不太强壮。”说完，这个可怜的孩子行了个屈膝礼，微笑着走开了。母亲领着她上来，向多宾投去痛苦的目光。这位好心人不希望有这样的呼吁。他自己也太深爱她了，以至于无法做到这一点。难以言喻的悲痛、怜悯和恐惧追赶着他，他看到她后就像一个罪犯一样离开了。

When Osborne heard that his friend had found her, he made hot and anxious inquiries regarding the poor child. How was she? How did she look? What did she say? His comrade took his hand, and looked him in the face.
当奥斯本听说他的朋友找到了她时，他对这个可怜的孩子进行了热烈而焦虑的询问。她怎么样？她看起来怎么样？她说了什么？他的战友握住他的手，看着他的脸。

‘George, she’s dying,’ William Dobbin said—and could speak no more.
“乔治，她快要死了，”威廉·多宾说，但再也说不出话来了。

There was a buxom Irish servant-girl, who performed all the duties of the little house where the Sedley family had found refuge: and this girl had in vain, on many previous days, striven to give Amelia aid or consolation. Emmy was much too sad to answer, or even to be aware of the attempts the other was making in her favour.
塞德利一家避难的小房子里有一个丰满的爱尔兰女仆，她承担着所有的职责：这个女孩在过去的很多天里都徒劳地努力向阿米莉亚提供帮助或安慰。艾美太伤心了，无法回答，甚至没有意识到对方为她所做的努力。

Four hours after the talk between Dobbin and Osborne, this servantmaid came into Amelia’s room, where she sate as usual, brooding silently over her letters—her little treasures. The girl, smiling, and looking arch and happy, made many trials to attract poor Emmy’s attention, who, however, took no heed of her.
多宾和奥斯本谈话四小时后，这位女仆走进了阿米莉亚的房间，她像往常一样坐在那里，默默地思考着她的信——她的小宝贝。这个女孩微笑着，看上去很开心，她做了很多尝试来吸引可怜的艾美的注意，但艾美并没有理睬她。

‘Miss Emmy,’ said the girl.
“艾美小姐，”女孩说。

‘I’m coming,’ Emmy said, not looking round.
“我来了。”艾美头也不回地说道。

‘There’s a message,’ the maid went on. ‘There’s something— somebody—sure, here’s a new letter for you—don’t be reading them old ones any more.’ And she gave her a letter, which Emmy took, and read.
“有消息。”女仆继续说道。 “有件事——有人——当然，这是给你的一封新信——不要再读那些旧的了。”然后她给了她一封信，艾美接过并读了信。

‘I must see you,’ the letter said. ‘Dearest Emmy—dearest love— dearest wife, come to me.’
信中写道：“我必须见你。” “最亲爱的艾美——最亲爱的爱——最亲爱的妻子，到我这里来吧。”

George and her mother were outside, waiting until she had read the letter.
乔治和她的母亲在外面等着她读完这封信。

Chapter XIX
第十九章


Miss Crawley at Nurse
护士克劳利小姐

We have seen how Mrs. Firkin, the lady’s maid, as soon as any event of importance to the Crawley family came to her knowledge, felt bound to communicate it to Mrs. Bute Crawley, at the Rectory; and have before mentioned how particularly kind and attentive that goodnatured lady was to Miss Crawley’s confidential servant. She had been a gracious friend to Miss Briggs, the companion, also; and had secured the latter’s good-will by a number of those attentions and promises, which cost so little in the making, and are yet so valuable and agreeable to the recipient. Indeed every good economist and manager of a household must know how cheap and yet how amiable these professions are, and what a flavour they give to the most homely dish in life. Who was the blundering idiot who said that ‘fine words butter no parsnips’? Half the parsnips of society are served and rendered palatable with no other sauce. As the immortal Alexis Soyer can make more delicious soup for a half-penny than an ignorant cook can concoct with pounds of vegetables and meat, so a skilful artist will make a few simple and pleasing phrases go farther than ever so much substantial benefit-stock in the hands of a mere bungler. Nay, we know that substantial benefits often sicken some stomachs; whereas, most will digest any amount of fine words, and be always eager for more of the same food. Mrs. Bute had told Briggs and Firkin so often of the depth of her affection for them; and what she would do, if she had Miss Crawley’s fortune, for friends so excellent and attached, that the ladies in question had the deepest regard for her; and felt as much gratitude and confidence as if Mrs. Bute had loaded them with the most expensive favours.
我们已经看到，这位女士的女仆菲尔金夫人一旦得知克劳利家族的任何重要事件，就觉得有必要将其传达给教区长的布特·克劳利夫人。之前曾提到过这位和蔼可亲的女士对克劳利小姐的贴身仆人是多么的友善和殷勤。她也是布里格斯小姐的好朋友，也是她的同伴。并通过许多这样的关注和承诺赢得了后者的善意，这些关注和承诺的成本很低，但对接受者来说却是如此有价值和令人愉快。事实上，每一位优秀的经济学家和家庭管理者都必须知道这些职业是多么廉价但又是多么和蔼可亲，以及它们给生活中最家常的菜肴带来了怎样的味道。那个说“好话不等于防风草”的笨蛋是谁？社会上有一半的防风草都是在不加其他酱汁的情况下食用的。正如不朽的亚历克西斯·索耶（Alexis Soyer）花半便士就能做出比无知的厨师用几磅蔬菜和肉调制出的汤还要美味的汤，所以熟练的艺术家会用一些简单而令人愉悦的短语比以往任何时候都走得更远，带来这么多实质性的好处。在一个笨手笨脚的手中。不仅如此，我们知道，实质性的好处常常会让一些人反胃。然而，大多数人会消化任何数量的好话，并且总是渴望更多同样的食物。布特夫人曾多次向布里格斯和弗金诉说她对他们的感情之深。如果她拥有克劳利小姐那样的财富，她会做什么，因为她的朋友是如此优秀和依恋，以至于有关的女士们都对她怀有最深的敬意；他们感到无比的感激和信心，就好像布特夫人给了他们最昂贵的恩惠一样。

Rawdon Crawley, on the other hand, like a selfish heavy dragoon as he was, never took the least trouble to conciliate his aunt’s aidesde-camp, showed his contempt for the pair with entire frankness— made Firkin pull off his boots on one occasion—sent her out in the rain on ignominious messages—and if he gave her a guinea, flung it to her as if it were a box on the ear. As his aunt, too, made a butt of Briggs, the Captain followed the example, and levelled his jokes at her—jokes about as delicate as a kick from his charger. Whereas, Mrs. Bute consulted her in matters of taste or difficulty, admired her poetry, and by a thousand acts of kindness and politeness, showed her appreciation of Briggs; and if she made Firkin a twopenny-halfpenny present, accompanied it with so many compliments, that the twopence-half-penny was transmuted into gold in the heart of the grateful waiting-maid, who, besides, was looking forwards quite contentedly to some prodigious benefit which must happen to her on the day when Mrs. Bute came into her fortune.
另一方面，罗登·克劳利就像一个自私的重型龙骑兵，从不费心去安抚他姨妈的副官，完全坦率地表达了他对这两个人的蔑视——有一次让菲尔金脱掉了靴子——他冒着大雨把她送出去，还给她发了一些不光彩的信息——如果他给了她一个几内亚，就把它扔给她，就好像这是一个打在耳朵上的盒子。当他的姨妈也嘲笑布里格斯时，上尉也效仿，对她开起了玩笑——开的玩笑就像被他的战马踢了一脚一样微妙。鉴于布特夫人在品味或困难方面向她咨询，欣赏她的诗歌，并通过一千种善意和礼貌的行为表达了她对布里格斯的欣赏；如果她送给菲尔金一份两便士半便士的礼物，并附上如此多的赞美，那两便士半便士就会在感激的侍女心中变成金子，此外，她还非常满意地期待着一些人的到来。当布特夫人发家致富的那一天，她一定会得到巨大的好处。

The different conduct of these two people is pointed out respectfully to the attention of persons commencing the world. Praise everybody, I say to such: never be squeamish, but speak out your compliment both point-blank in a man’s face, and behind his back, when you know there is a reasonable chance of his hearing it again. Never lose a chance of saying a kind word. As Collingwood never saw a vacant place in his estate but he took an acorn out of his pocket and popped it in; so deal with your compliments through life. An acorn costs nothing; but it may sprout into a prodigious bit of timber.
这两个人的不同行为被恭敬地指出来引起人们的注意。赞美每个人，我对这样的人说：永远不要拘谨，而是当你知道他很有可能再次听到你的赞美时，当面或在他背后直截了当地说出你的赞美。永远不要失去说一句好话的机会。科林伍德从来没有在他的庄园里看到过空地，但他从口袋里掏出一颗橡子，把它放进去；所以在生活中要善待你的赞美。一颗橡子不花钱；但它可能会发芽成一块巨大的木材。

In a word, during Rawdon Crawley’s prosperity, he was only obeyed with sulky acquiescence; when his disgrace came, there was nobody to help or pity him. Whereas, when Mrs. Bute took the command at Miss Crawley’s house, the garrison there were charmed to act under such a leader, expecting all sorts of promotion from her promises, her generosity, and her kind words.
总而言之，在罗登·克劳利的鼎盛时期，人们对他的服从只是闷闷不乐的默许。当他的耻辱到来时，没有人帮助或怜悯他。然而，当布特夫人接任克劳利小姐家的指挥权时，那里的驻军都着迷于在这样一位领导者的领导下行事，期望从她的承诺、她的慷慨和她的善意话语中获得各种晋升。

That he would consider himself beaten, after one defeat, and make no attempt to regain the position he had lost, Mrs. Bute Crawley never allowed herself to suppose. She knew Rebecca to be too clever and spirited and desperate a woman to submit without a struggle; and felt that she must prepare for that combat, and be incessantly watchful against assault; or mine, or surprise.
布特·克劳利夫人从来不允许自己想到，在一次失败之后，他会认为自己被打败了，并且不再试图重新获得失去的地位。她知道丽贝卡是一个太聪明、太有活力、太绝望的女人，不可能不经过挣扎就屈服。并觉得她必须为这场战斗做好准备，并不断警惕免受攻击；或我的，或惊喜。

In the first place, though she held the town, was she sure of the principal inhabitant? Would Miss Crawley herself hold out; and had she not a secret longing to welcome back the ousted adversary? The old lady liked Rawdon, and Rebecca, who amused her. Mrs. Bute could not disguise from herself the fact that none of her party could so contribute to the pleasures of the town-bred lady. ‘My girls’ singing, after that little odious governess’s, I know is unbearable,’ the candid Rector’s wife owned to herself. ‘She always used to go to sleep when Martha and Louisa played their duets. Jim’s stiff college manners and poor dear Bute’s talk about his dogs and horses always annoyed her. If I took her to the Rectory, she would grow angry with us all, and fly, I know she would; and might fall into that horrid Rawdon’s clutches again, and be the victim of that little viper of a Sharp. Meanwhile, it is clear to me that she is exceedingly unwell, and cannot move for some weeks, at any rate; during which we must think of some plan to protect her from the arts of those unprincipled people.’
首先，虽然她控制着这座城镇，但她确定主要居民吗？克劳利小姐本人会坚持下去吗？她难道没有暗暗渴望欢迎被驱逐的对手回来吗？老太太喜欢罗登和丽贝卡，因为他们让她觉得很有趣。布特夫人无法向自己掩饰这样一个事实，即她的党派中没有人能为这位城镇出身的女士带来如此多的快乐。 “我知道我的女儿们在那个可恶的小家庭女教师的歌声之后唱歌，这是难以忍受的，”坦率的教区长的妻子对自己说。 “当玛莎和路易莎演奏二重奏时，她总是睡着了。吉姆大学时僵硬的举止和可怜的亲爱的布特谈论他的狗和马总是让她恼火。如果我带她去教区长官邸，她就会对我们所有人生气，然后飞走，我知道她会的。可能会再次落入那个可怕的罗登的魔掌，成为那条夏普小毒蛇的受害者。与此同时，我很清楚她的身体非常不适，至少有几个星期不能动弹。在此期间，我们必须想出一些计划来保护她免受那些无原则之人的艺术侵害。

In the very best-of moments, if anybody told Miss Crawley that she was, or looked ill, the trembling old lady sent off for her doctor; and I daresay she was very unwell after the sudden family event, which might serve to shake stronger nerves than hers. At least, Mrs. Bute thought it was her duty to inform the physician, and the apothecary, and the dame-de-compagnie, and the domestics, that Miss Crawley was in a most critical state, and that they were to act accordingly. She had the street laid knee-deep with straw; and the knocker put by with Mr. Bowls’s plate. She insisted that the Doctor should call twice a day; and deluged her patient with draughts every two hours. When anybody entered the room, she uttered a shshshsh so sibilant and ominous, that it frightened the poor old lady in her bed, from which she could not look without seeing Mrs. Bute’s beady eyes eagerly fixed on her, as the latter sate steadfast in the armchair by the bedside. They seemed to lighten in the dark (for she kept the curtains closed) as she moved about the room on velvet paws like a cat. There Miss Crawley lay for days—ever so many days—Mr. Bute reading books of devotion to her: for nights, long nights, during which she had to hear the watchman sing, the night-light sputter; visited at midnight, the last thing, by the stealthy apothecary; and then left to look at Mrs. Bute’s twinkling eyes, or the flicks of yellow that the rushlight threw on the dreary darkened ceiling. Hygeia herself would have fallen sick under such a regimen; and how much more this poor old nervous victim? It has been said that when she was in health and good spirits, this venerable inhabitant of Vanity Fair had as free notions about religion and morals as Monsieur de Voltaire himself could desire, but when illness overtook her, it was aggravated by the most dreadful terrors of death, and an utter cowardice took possession of the prostrate old sinner.
在最好的时刻，如果有人告诉克劳利小姐她病了，或者看起来病了，那位浑身颤抖的老太太就会被送去看医生；我敢说，在突如其来的家庭事件之后，她的身体非常不适，这可能会动摇比她更强烈的神经。至少，布特夫人认为她有责任通知医生、药剂师、公司贵妇和仆人，克劳利小姐正处于最危急的状态，他们应该采取相应行动。她把齐膝深的稻草铺在街道上。门环与鲍尔斯先生的盘子放在一起。她坚持要求医生每天打电话两次；每两小时给她的病人浇一次凉水。当有人进入房间时，她会发出嘶嘶声，不祥地发出嘶嘶声，这吓坏了床上的可怜的老太太，她从床上看时都看到布特夫人的圆圆的眼睛热切地盯着她，因为后者坚定地坐在床上。床边的扶手椅。当她像猫一样用天鹅绒的爪子在房间里走来走去时，它们似乎在黑暗中变亮了（因为她一直拉着窗帘）。克劳利小姐在那里躺了好几天——很多天——克劳利先生躺在那里。比特读着对她虔诚的书籍：在夜晚，漫长的夜晚，她必须听到看守人的歌声，夜灯的噼啪声；半夜，最后一件事，是神秘的药剂师来拜访的；然后离开去看看布特夫人闪烁的眼睛，或者灯芯草灯在沉闷黑暗的天花板上投射出的黄色光。在这样的养生方式下，海吉亚本人也会生病。更何况这个可怜的老神经受害者呢？ 据说，当她身体健康、精神良好时，这位《名利场》的尊贵居民对宗教和道德有着与伏尔泰先生本人所希望的一样自由的观念，但当疾病降临到她身上时，最可怕的恐惧使情况变得更加严重。死亡的来临，彻底的怯懦占据了这位跪倒在地的老罪人的心头。

Sick-bed homilies and pious reflections are, to be sure, out of place in mere story-books, and we are not going (after the fashion of some novelists of the present day) to cajole the public into a sermon, when it is only a comedy that the reader pays his money to witness. But, without preaching, the truth may surely be borne in mind, that the bustle, and triumph, and laughter, and gaiety which Vanity Fair exhibits in public, do not always pursue the performer into private life, and that the most dreary depression of spirits and dismal repentances sometimes overcome him. Recollection of the best ordained banquets will scarcely cheer sick epicures. Reminiscences of the most becoming dresses and brilliant ball triumphs will go very little way to console faded beauties. Perhaps statesmen, at a particular period of existence, are not much gratified at thinking over the most triumphant divisions; and the success or the pleasure of yesterday becomes of very small account when a certain (albeit uncertain) morrow is in view, about which all of us must some day or other be speculating. O brother wearers of motley! Are there not moments when one grows sick of grinning and tumbling, and the jingling of cap and bells? This, dear friends and companions, is my amiable object—to walk with you through the Fair, to examine the shops and the shows there; and that we should all come home after the flare, and the noise, and the gaiety, and be perfectly miserable in private.
可以肯定的是，病床上的说教和虔诚的反思在纯粹的故事书中是不合适的，我们不会（按照当今一些小说家的时尚）哄骗公众进行布道，当它是只是读者花钱观看的喜剧。但是，即使没有说教，我们也可以牢记事实，《名利场》在公共场合展现的喧嚣、胜利、笑声和欢乐，并不总是会追随表演者进入私人生活，而且有时，他会情绪低落，悔恨不已。回忆起最盛大的宴会，病态的享乐主义者很难感到高兴。回忆最合身的礼服和辉煌的舞会胜利并不能安慰那些褪色的美女。也许政治家在特定的生存时期，不会因为思考最胜利的分裂而感到高兴；当某个（尽管不确定）明天即将到来时，昨天的成功或快乐就变得微不足道了，而我们所有人都必须有一天或有一天对此进行猜测。穿着杂色衣服的兄弟啊！难道没有人厌倦了咧嘴笑、翻滚、帽子和铃铛的叮当声吗？亲爱的朋友们和同伴们，这就是我的亲切目标——与你们一起走过博览会，参观那里的商店和展览；我们都应该在喧闹、喧闹和欢乐之后回到家，私下里却是非常痛苦的。

‘If that poor man of mine had a head on his shoulders,’ Mrs. Bute Crawley thought to herself, ‘how useful he might be, under present circumstances, to this unhappy old lady! He might make her repent of her shocking free-thinking ways; he might urge her to do her duty, and cast off that odious reprobate who has disgraced himself and his family; and he might induce her to do justice to my dear girls and the two boys, who require and deserve, I am sure, every assistance which their relatives can give them.’
“如果我这个可怜的男人有头脑的话，”布特·克劳利夫人心里想，“在目前的情况下，他对这位不幸的老太太会有多大用处！”他可能会让她为自己令人震惊的自由思考方式感到悔恨；他可能会敦促她履行自己的职责，抛弃那个让自己和家人蒙羞的可恶的恶棍。他可能会诱使她公正地对待我亲爱的女儿们和两个男孩，我确信他们需要并且应该得到他们的亲戚可以给予他们的一切帮助。

And, as the hatred of vice is always a progress towards virtue, Mrs. Bute Crawley endeavoured to instil her sister-in-law a proper abhorrence for all Rawdon Crawley’s manifold sins: of which his uncle’s wife brought forward such a catalogue as indeed would have served to condemn a whole regiment of young officers. If a man has committed wrong in life, I don’t know any moralist more anxious to point his errors out to the world than his own relations; so Mrs. Bute showed a perfect family interest and knowledge of Rawdon’s history. She had all the particulars of that ugly quarrel with Captain Marker, in which Rawdon, wrong from the beginning, ended in shooting the Captain. She knew how the unhappy Lord Dovedale, whose mamma had taken a house at Oxford, so that he might be educated there, and who had never touched a card in his life till he came to London, was perverted by Rawdon at the Cocoa-Tree, made helplessly tipsy by this abominable seducer and perverter of youth, and fleeced of four thousand pounds. She described with the most vivid minuteness the agonies of the country families whom he had ruined— the sons whom he had plunged into dishonour and poverty—the daughters whom he had inveigled into perdition. She knew the poor tradesmen who were bankrupt by his extravagance—the mean shifts and rogueries with which he had ministered to it—the astounding falsehoods by which he had imposed upon the most generous of aunts, and the ingratitude and ridicule by which he had repaid her sacrifices. She imparted these stories gradually to Miss Crawley; gave her the whole benefit of them; felt it to be her bounden duty as a Christian woman and mother of a family to do so; had not the smallest remorse or compunction for the victim whom her tongue was immolating; nay, very likely thought her act was quite meritorious, and plumed herself upon her resolute manner of performing it. Yes, if a man’s character is to be abused, say what you will, there’s nobody like a relation to do the business. And one is bound to own, regarding this unfortunate wretch of a Rawdon Crawley, that the mere truth was enough to condemn him, and that all inventions of scandal were quite superfluous pains on his friends’ parts.
而且，由于对恶习的憎恨始终是走向美德的进步，布特·克劳利夫人努力向她的嫂子灌输对罗登·克劳利的各种罪恶的适当的憎恶：他叔叔的妻子提出了这样一个目录，确实会谴责了整个团的年轻军官。如果一个人在生活中犯了错，我不知道有哪个道德家比他自己的亲戚更急于向世界指出他的错误。因此，布特夫人表现出了完美的家庭兴趣和对罗登历史的了解。她掌握了与马克船长那场丑恶争吵的所有细节，罗登从​​一开始就错了，最终射杀了船长。她知道不幸的多夫代尔勋爵是如何在可可树酒店被罗登变态的，他的妈妈在牛津买了一栋房子，以便他在那里接受教育，而他在来到伦敦之前从未碰过一张卡片。 ，被这个可恶的诱惑者和青春的变态者弄得醉醺醺的，并被骗了四千英镑。她以最生动、细致的方式描述了他所毁坏的乡村家庭的痛苦——他让儿子们陷入耻辱和贫困——他让女儿们陷入灭亡。她认识那些因他的铺张浪费而破产的可怜的商人——他为之服务的卑鄙和无赖——他对最慷慨的阿姨强加的令人震惊的谎言，以及他回报的忘恩负义和嘲笑。她的牺牲。 她把这些故事慢慢地讲给克劳利小姐听。给了她所有的好处；认为这样做是她作为一名基督徒妇女和家庭母亲的义不容辞的责任；对于她的舌头所焚烧的受害者，没有丝毫的悔恨或内疚；不，很可能认为她的行为很有功德，并为她坚决的执行方式而自豪。是的，如果一个人的品格要被滥用，无论你怎么说，没有人比亲戚更适合做这件事。对于罗顿·克劳利这个不幸的家伙，人们必须承认，光是事实就足以谴责他，而所有丑闻的捏造对他的朋友来说都是多余的痛苦。

Rebecca, too, being now a relative, came in for the fullest share of Mrs. Bute’s kind inquiries. This indefatigable pursuer of truth (having given strict orders that the door was to be denied to all emissaries or letters from Rawdon), took Miss Crawley’s carriage, and drove to her old friend Miss Pinkerton, at Minerva House, Chiswick Mall, to whom she announced the dreadful intelligence of Captain Rawdon’s seduction by Miss Sharp, and from whom she got sundry strange particulars regarding the ex-governess’s birth and early history. The friend of the Lexicographer had plenty of information to give. Miss Jemima was made to fetch the drawingmaster’s receipts and letters. This one was from a spunging-house: that entreated an advance: another was full of gratitude for Rebecca’s reception by the ladies of Chiswick: and the last document from the unlucky artist’s pen was that in which, from his dying bed, he recommended his orphan child to Miss Pinkerton’s protection. There were juvenile letters and petitions from Rebecca, too, in the collection, imploring aid for her father or declaring her own gratitude. Perhaps in Vanity Fair there are no better satires than letters. Take a bundle of your dear friend’s of ten years back— your dear friend whom you hate now. Look at a file of your sister’s! how you clung to each other till you quarrelled about the twenty-pound legacy! Get down the round-hand scrawls of your son who has half broken your heart with selfish undutifulness since; or a parcel of your own, breathing endless ardour and love eternal, which were sent back by your mistress when she married the Nabob— your mistress for whom you now care no more than for Queen Elizabeth. Vows, love, promises, confidences, gratitude, how queerly they read after a while! There ought to be a law in Vanity Fair ordering the destruction of every written document (except receipted tradesmen’s bills) after a certain brief and proper interval. Those quacks and misanthropes who advertise indelible Japan ink should be made to perish along with their wicked discoveries. The best ink for Vanity Fair use would be one that faded utterly in a couple of days, and left the paper clean and blank, so that you might write on it to somebody else.
丽贝卡现在也成为了亲戚，也充分参与了布特夫人的善意询问。这位不知疲倦的真理追求者（下达了严格命令，禁止所有使者或来自罗登的信件进入），乘坐克劳利小姐的马车，开车到奇西克购物中心密涅瓦大厦去见她的老朋友平克顿小姐。宣布了罗登船长被夏普小姐引诱的可怕情报，并从夏普小姐那里得到了有关前家庭教师的出生和早期历史的各种奇怪的细节。词典编纂者的朋友有很多信息可以提供。杰米玛小姐被要求去取绘图师的收据和信件。这张来自一家海绵屋：请求预付款；另一张则对奇西克女士们对丽贝卡的接待充满感激之情：这位不幸的艺术家笔下的最后一份文件是，在他临终的床上，他推荐了他的作品。孤儿得到平克顿小姐的保护。收藏中也有丽贝卡的青少年信件和请愿书，恳求对她父亲的援助或表达她自己的感激之情。也许在《名利场》中，没有比信件更好的讽刺了。拿一包十年前你亲爱的朋友的东西——你现在讨厌的亲爱的朋友。看看你姐姐的文件！你们是多么地紧紧相拥，直到为了那二十英镑的遗产而争吵起来！记下你儿子用圆手画的潦草字迹，从那以后他就因为自私的不孝让你心碎了；或者你自己的包裹，散发着无尽的热情和永恒的爱，这是你的情妇嫁给纳博布时寄回来的——你的情妇现在你关心的就像伊丽莎白女王一样。誓言、爱情、承诺、信任、感激，读起来多么奇怪！ 《名利场》应该制定一项法律，命令在一定的短暂而适当的时间间隔后销毁所有书面文件（收到的商人账单除外）。那些宣传不可磨灭的日本墨水的庸医和厌世者应该与他们的邪恶发现一起灭亡。 《名利场》使用的最好墨水是一种在几天内完全褪色的墨水，并且使纸张保持干净和空白，以便您可以在上面写给其他人。

From Miss Pinkerton’s the indefatigable Mrs. Bute followed the track of Sharp and his daughter back to the lodgings in Greek Street, which the defunct painter had occupied; and where portraits of the landlady in white satin, and of the husband in brass buttons, done by Sharp in lieu of a quarter’s rent, still decorated the parlour walls. Mrs. Stokes was a communicative person, and quickly told all she knew about Mr. Sharp; how dissolute and poor he was; how goodnatured and amusing; how he was always hunted by bailiffs and duns; how, to the landlady’s horror, though she never could abide the woman, he did not marry his wife till a short time before her death; and what a queer little wild vixen his daughter was; how she kept them all laughing with her fun and mimicry; how she used to fetch the gin from the public-house, and was known in all the studios in the quarter—in brief, Mrs. Bute got such a full account of her new niece’s parentage, education, and behaviour as would scarcely have pleased Rebecca, had the latter known that such inquiries were being made concerning her.
从平克顿小姐家，不知疲倦的布特夫人追踪夏普和他女儿的踪迹，回到了希腊街的住处，也就是这位已故画家曾经住过的地方。客厅的墙壁上仍然装饰着穿着白色缎子的女房东和戴着黄铜纽扣的丈夫的肖像，这些肖像是由夏普代替四分之一的租金制作的。斯托克斯夫人是一个善于交际的人，很快就把她所知道的关于夏普先生的一切都讲了出来。他是多么的放荡和贫穷啊！多么善良又有趣啊；他总是被法警和催债人追捕；令女房东惊恐的是，虽然她永远无法忍受这个女人，但他直到妻子去世前不久才娶她为妻。他的女儿是个多么古怪的小野狐啊！她如何用她的乐趣和模仿让他们都笑起来；她过去如何从酒馆取杜松子酒，并且在该地区的所有工作室中都广为人知——简而言之，布特夫人对她的新侄女的出身、教育和行为有了如此全面的了解，这几乎不会让人高兴丽贝卡，如果后者知道正在对她进行此类询问的话。

Of all these industrious researches Miss Crawley had the full benefit. Mrs. Rawdon Crawley was the daughter of an opera-girl. She had danced herself. She had been a model to the painters. She was brought up as became her mother’s daughter. She drank gin with her father, &c. &c. It was a lost woman who was married to a lost man; and the moral to be inferred from Mrs. Bute’s tale was, that the knavery of the pair was irremediable, and that no properly conducted person should ever notice them again.
在所有这些辛勤的研究中，克劳利小姐得到了充分的好处。罗登·克劳利夫人是一位歌剧演员的女儿。她自己也跳过舞。她曾是画家的模特。她是作为她母亲的女儿长大的。她和她父亲一起喝杜松子酒等等。 ＆C。这是一个迷失的女人嫁给了一个迷失的男人；从比特夫人的故事中可以推断出的寓意是，这两个人的恶行是无法挽回的，任何行为得体的人都不应该再注意到他们。

These were the materials which prudent Mrs. Bute gathered together in Park Lane, the provisions and ammunition as it were with which she fortified the house against the siege which she knew that Rawdon and his wife would lay to Miss Crawley.
这些是谨慎的布特夫人在公园巷收集的材料，她用来加固房子以抵御围困的给养和弹药，她知道罗顿和他的妻子将向克劳利小姐发起围攻。

But if a fault may be found with her arrangements, it is this, that she was too eager: she managed rather too well; undoubtedly she made Miss Crawley more ill than was necessary; and though the old invalid succumbed to her authority, it was so harassing and severe, that the victim would be inclined to escape at the very first chance which fell in her way. Managing women, the ornaments of their sex—women who order everything for everybody, and know so much better than any person concerned what is good for their neighbours, don’t sometimes speculate upon the possibility of a domestic revolt, or upon other extreme consequences resulting from their overstrained authority.
但如果说她的安排有什么问题的话，那就是她太急切了：她安排得太好了；她太急于求成了。毫无疑问，她让克劳利小姐病得更加严重。尽管老病人屈服于她的权威，但它是如此骚扰和严厉，以至于受害者一旦有机会就会倾向于逃跑。管理女性，女性的装饰品——为每个人安排一切的女性，比任何关心什么对邻居有利的人都清楚得多，有时不会猜测家庭叛乱的可能性，或其他极端后果这是他们权力过度扩张的结果。

Thus, for instance, Mrs. Bute, with the best intentions no doubt in the world, and wearing herself to death as she did by foregoing sleep, dinner, fresh air, for the sake of her invalid sister-in-law, carried her conviction of the old lady’s illness so far that she almost managed her into her coffin. She pointed out her sacrifices and their results one day to the constant apothecary, Mr. Clump.
例如，布特夫人无疑怀着世界上最好的愿望，为了她病弱的嫂子，放弃了睡眠、晚餐和新鲜空气，把自己累得要死了。到现在为止，她对老太太的病深信不疑，几乎把她送进了棺材。有一天，她向不变的药剂师克伦普先生指出了她的牺牲和结果。

‘I am sure, my dear Mr. Clump,’ she said, ‘no efforts of mine have been wanting to restore our dear invalid, whom the ingratitude of her nephew has laid on the bed of sickness. I never shrink from personal discomfort: I never refuse to sacrifice myself.’
“我确信，我亲爱的克伦普先生，”她说，“我所做的一切努力都不是为了让我们亲爱的病人康复，因为她侄子的忘恩负义，让他躺在病床上。”我从不因个人不适而退缩：我从不拒绝牺牲自己。

‘Your devotion, it must be confessed, is admirable,’ Mr. Clump says, with a low bow; ‘but—‘
“必须承认，你的奉献精神令人钦佩，”克伦普先生低着头说道。 '但-'

‘I have scarcely closed my eyes since my arrival: I give up sleep, health, every comfort, to my sense of duty. When my poor James was in the smallpox, did I allow any hireling to nurse him? No.’
“自从抵达以来，我几乎没有闭过眼睛：为了我的责任感，我放弃了睡眠、健康、一切舒适。当我可怜的詹姆斯感染天花时，我允许雇工来护理他吗？不。'

‘You did what became an excellent mother, my dear Madam—the best of mothers; but—‘
“亲爱的女士，您成为了一位出色的母亲——最好的母亲；但-'

‘As the mother of a family and the wife of an English clergyman, I humbly trust that my principles are good,’ Mrs. Bute said, with a happy solemnity of conviction; ‘and, as long as Nature supports me, never, never, Mr. Clump, will I desert the post of duty. Others may bring that grey head with sorrow to the bed of sickness (here Mrs. Bute, waving her hand, pointed to one of old Miss Crawley’s coffeecoloured fronts, which was perched on a stand in the dressing-room), but I will never quit it. Ah, Mr. Clump! I fear, I know, that the couch needs spiritual as well as medical consolation.’
“作为一个家庭的母亲和一位英国牧师的妻子，我谦虚地相信我的原则是好的，”布特夫人带着愉快而庄严的信念说道。 “而且，只要大自然支持我，克伦普先生，我就永远、永远不会放弃职务。”其他人可能会带着悲伤把那个灰白的脑袋带到病床上（布特夫人挥舞着她的手，指着老克劳利小姐的一件咖啡色的衣服，它放在更衣室的架子上），但我永远不会退出。啊，克伦普先生！我知道，我担心沙发需要精神和医疗上的安慰。

‘What I was going to observe, my dear Madam,’—here the resolute Clump once more interposed with a bland air—‘what I was going to observe when you gave utterance to sentiments which do you so much honour, was that I think you alarm yourself needlessly about our kind friend, and sacrifice your own health too prodigally in her favour.’
“我要观察到的，亲爱的女士，”——说到这里，坚定的克朗普再次以一种温和的态度介入——“当您说出令您深感荣幸的情感时，我要观察到的是，我认为你不必要地为我们善良的朋友担心，并且为了她而牺牲了自己的健康。

‘I would lay down my life for my duty, or for any member of my husband’s family,’ Mrs. Bute interposed.
“我愿意为了我的职责，或者为了我丈夫家庭的任何成员而献出自己的生命，”布特夫人插话道。

‘Yes, Madam, if need were; but we don’t want Mrs Bute Crawley to be a martyr,’ Clump said gallantly. ‘Dr Squills and myself have both considered Miss Crawley’s case with every anxiety and care, as you may suppose. We see her low-spirited and nervous; family events have agitated her.’
“是的，女士，如果需要的话；但我们不希望布特·克劳利夫人成为烈士。”克伦普勇敢地说。 “斯奎尔斯医生和我本人都非常焦虑和谨慎地考虑了克劳利小姐的案件，正如你所想的那样。我们看到她情绪低落、神经质；家庭事件让她焦躁不安。”

‘Her nephew will come to perdition,’ Mrs. Crawley cried.
“她的侄子将会灭亡，”克劳利夫人喊道。

‘Have agitated her: and you arrived like a guardian angel, my dear Madam, a positive guardian angel, I assure you, to soothe her under the pressure of calamity. But Dr. Squills and I were thinking that our amiable friend is not in such a state as renders confinement to her bed necessary. She is depressed, but this confinement perhaps adds to her depression. She should have change, fresh air, gaiety; the most delightful remedies in the pharmacopoeia,’ Mr. Clump said, grinning and showing his handsome teeth. ‘Persuade her to rise, dear Madam; drag her from her couch and her low spirits; insist upon her taking little drives. They will restore the roses too to your cheeks, if I may so speak to Mrs. Bute Crawley.’
“让她焦躁不安：亲爱的女士，您就像守护天使一样到来，我向您保证，您是一位积极的守护天使，可以在灾难的压力下安抚她。但斯奎尔斯医生和我都在想，我们这位和蔼可亲的朋友目前的状况并没有必要将她限制在床上。她很沮丧，但这种禁闭可能加剧了她的沮丧。她应该有变化，新鲜空气，快乐；药典上最令人愉快的疗法，”克伦普先生笑着说，露出了他漂亮的牙齿。 “亲爱的女士，劝她站起来；把她从沙发上和情绪低落中拖起来；坚持要求她少开车。如果我可以对布特·克劳利夫人这么说的话，他们也会把玫瑰花恢复到你的脸颊上。

‘The sight of her horrid nephew casually in the Park, where I am told the wretch drives with the brazen partner of his crimes,’ Mrs. Bute said (letting the cat of selfishness out of the bag of secrecy), ‘would cause her such a shock, that we should have to bring her back to bed again. She must not go out, Mr. Clump. She shall not go out as long as I remain to watch over her; And as for my health, what matters it? I give it cheerfully, sir. I sacrifice it at the altar of my duty.’
“看到她那可怕的侄子随意地出现在公园里，有人告诉我，那个坏蛋和他犯罪的无耻伙伴一起开车，”布特夫人说（让自私的猫从秘密袋中泄露出来），“会让她如此震惊，我们不得不再次把她带回床上。她不能出去，克伦普先生。只要我留下来照顾她，她就不会出去；至于我的健康，又有什么关系呢？我很高兴地给了它，先生。我把它牺牲在我职责的祭坛上。

‘Upon my word, Madam,’ Mr. Clump now said bluntly, ‘I won’t answer for her life if she remains locked up in that dark room. She is so nervous that we may lose her any day; and if you wish Captain Crawley to be her heir, I warn you frankly, Madam, that you are doing your very best to serve him.’
“我向您保证，女士，”克朗普先生现在直言不讳地说，“如果她仍然被关在那个黑暗的房间里，我不会负责她的生命。”她太紧张了，我们随时可能会失去她；如果您希望克劳利船长成为她的继承人，我坦率地警告您，女士，您正在尽最大努力为他服务。

‘Gracious mercy! is her life in danger?’ Mrs. Bute cried. ‘Why, why, Mr. Clump, did you not inform me sooner?’
‘仁慈的怜悯！ “她有生命危险吗？”布特太太喊道。 “为什么，为什么，克朗普先生，你不早点通知我吗？”

The night before, Mr. Clump and Dr. Squills had had a consultation (over a bottle of wine at the house of Sir Lapin Warren, whose lady was about to present him with a thirteenth blessing), regarding Miss Crawley and her case.
前一天晚上，克伦普先生和斯奎尔斯医生就克劳利小姐和她的案件进行了协商（在拉平·沃伦爵士家里喝了一瓶酒，沃伦爵士的夫人正要向他献上第十三次祝福）。

‘What a little harpy that woman from Hampshire is, Clump,’ Squills remarked, ‘that has seized upon old Tilly Crawley. Devilish good Madeira.’
“克伦普，那个来自汉普郡的女人真是个小鹰身女妖，”斯奎尔斯说道，“她竟然抓住了老蒂莉·克劳利。魔鬼般的优质马德拉酒。

‘What a fool Rawdon Crawley has been,’ Clump replied, ‘to go and marry a governess! There was something about the girl, too.’
“罗登·克劳利真是个傻瓜，”克伦普回答道，“竟然去娶了一位家庭女教师！”这个女孩也有一些东西。

‘Green eyes, fair skin, pretty figure, famous frontal development,’ Squills remarked. ‘There is something about her; and Crawley was a fool, Squills.’
“绿色的眼睛，白皙的皮肤，漂亮的身材，著名的额叶发育，”斯奎尔斯说道。 ‘她身上有某种东西；克劳利是个傻瓜，史奎尔斯。

‘A d—fool—always was,’ the apothecary replied.
“蠢——傻瓜——一直都是，”药剂师回答道。

‘Of course the old girl will fling him over,’ said the physician, and after a pause added, ‘She’ll cut up well, I suppose.’
“当然，老女孩会把他扔下去，”医生说，停顿了一下后又补充道，“我想她会很好地切开。”

‘Cut up,’ says Clump with a grin; ‘I wouldn’t have her cut up for two hundred a year.’
“切吧，”克朗普笑着说道。 “一年花两百块钱我也不会让她被割掉。”

‘That Hampshire woman will kill her in two months, Clump, my boy, if she stops about her,’ Dr. Squills said. ‘Old woman; full feeder; nervous subject; palpitation of the heart; pressure on the brain; apoplexy; off she goes. Get her up, Clump; get her out: or I wouldn’t give many weeks’ purchase for your two hundred a year.’ And it was acting upon this hint that the worthy apothecary spoke with so much candour to Mrs. Bute Crawley.
“克伦普，我的孩子，如果汉普郡的那个女人停下来，两个月后就会杀了她，”斯奎尔斯博士说。 ‘老妇人；满喂机；紧张的主题；心悸；对大脑的压力；中风；她走了。把她扶起来，克朗普；把她赶出去：否则我不会为你每年的两百美元支付很多周的购买费用。”正是根据这一暗示，这位可敬的药剂师才如此坦诚地对布特·克劳利夫人说话。

Having the old lady under her hand: in bed: with nobody near, Mrs. Bute had made more than one assault upon her, to induce her to alter her will. But Miss Crawley’s usual terrors regarding death increased greatly when such dismal propositions were made to her, and Mrs. Bute saw that she must get her patient into cheerful spirits and health before she could hope to attain the pious object which she had in view. Whither to take her was the next puzzle. The only place where she is not likely to meet those odious Rawdons is at church, and that won’t amuse her, Mrs. Bute justly felt. ‘We must go and visit our beautiful suburbs of London,’ she then thought. ‘I hear they are the most picturesque in the world”; and so she had a sudden interest for Hampstead, and Hornsey, and found that Dulwich had great charms for her, and getting her victim into her carriage, drove her to those rustic spots, beguiling the little journeys with conversations about Rawdon and his wife, and telling every story to the old lady which could add to her indignation against this pair of reprobates.
布特夫人把老太太放在手下：躺在床上，附近没有人，她对她进行了不止一次的攻击，以诱使她改变自己的意愿。但是，当克劳利小姐向她提出这样令人沮丧的建议时，她对死亡的恐惧大大增加了，布特夫人看到她必须让她的病人精神愉快，身体健康，然后才能希望实现她所设想的虔诚目标。带她去哪里是下一个难题。她唯一不可能遇到那些可恶的罗登一家的地方就是教堂，而这不会让她感到高兴，布特夫人理所当然地感到。 “我们必须去参观我们美丽的伦敦郊区，”她想。 “我听说它们是世界上最美丽的地方”；于是她突然对汉普斯特德和霍恩西产生了兴趣，发现德威奇对她有很大的魅力，把她的受害者带上马车，开车送她去那些乡村的地方，用关于罗登和他妻子的谈话来迷惑短暂的旅程，并把所有可能增加她对这对恶棍的愤慨的故事都讲给老太太听。

Perhaps Mrs. Bute pulled the string unnecessarily tight. For though she worked up Miss Crawley to a proper dislike of her disobedient nephew, the invalid had a great hatred and secret terror of her victimizer, and panted to escape from her. After a brief space, she rebelled against Highgate and Hornsey utterly. She would go into the Park. Mrs. Bute knew they would meet the abominable Rawdon there, and she was right. One day in the ring, Rawdon’s stanhope came in sight; Rebecca was seated by him. In the enemy’s equipage Miss Crawley occupied her usual place, with Mrs. Bute on her left, the poodle and Miss Briggs on the back seat. It was a nervous moment, and Rebecca’s heart beat quick as she recognized the carriage; and as the two vehicles crossed each other in a line, she clasped her hands, and looked towards the spinster with a face of agonized attachment and devotion. Rawdon himself trembled, and his face grew purple behind his dyed mustachios. Only old Briggs was moved in the other carriage, and cast her great eyes nervously towards her old friends. Miss Crawley’s bonnet was resolutely turned towards the Serpentine. Mrs. Bute happened to be in ecstasies with the poodle, and was calling him a little darling, and a sweet little zoggy, and a pretty pet. The carriages moved on, each in his line.
也许布特夫人把绳子拉得不必要的紧。因为虽然她激起了克劳利小姐对她不听话的侄子的厌恶，但病人却对加害她的人怀有极大的仇恨和秘密的恐惧，气喘吁吁地想要逃离她。短暂的休息后，她彻底反抗了海格特和霍恩西。她会去公园。布特夫人知道他们会在那里遇到可恶的罗登，她是对的。有一天，在拳击场上，罗登的斯坦霍普出现在了人们的视线中。丽贝卡坐在他旁边。在敌人的马车里，克劳利小姐占据了她平常的位置，布特夫人坐在她的左边，贵宾犬和布里格斯小姐坐在后座上。这是一个紧张的时刻，当丽贝卡认出那辆马车时，她的心跳得很快。当两辆车排成一排交叉时，她紧握双手，一脸痛苦、依恋和虔诚地看着老处女。罗登本人也在颤抖，染过的小胡子后面的脸变成了紫色。另一节车厢里只有老布里格斯感动了，她的大眼睛紧张地投向她的老朋友们。克劳利小姐的帽子坚决地转向蛇形湖。布特太太碰巧对这只卷毛狗感到欣喜若狂，并称他为“小宝贝”、“可爱的小佐吉”、“漂亮的宠物”。马车继续前行，每辆马车都排成一排。

‘Done, by Jove,’ Rawdon said to his wife.
“干了，天哪，”罗登对妻子说。

‘Try once more, Rawdon,’ Rebecca answered. ‘Could not you lock your wheels into theirs, dearest?’
“再试一次，罗登，”丽贝卡回答。 “亲爱的，你不能把你的轮子锁在他们的轮子上吗？”

Rawdon had not the heart for that manoeuvre. When the carriages met again, he stood up in his stanhope; he raised his hand ready to doff his hat; he looked with all his eyes. But this time Miss Crawley’s face was not turned away; she and Mrs. Bute looked him full in the face, and cut their nephew pitilessly. He sank back in his seat with an oath, and striking out of the ring, dashed away desperately homewards.
罗登无意采取这种行动。当马车再次相遇时，他在斯坦霍普上站了起来。他举起手准备脱帽。他全神贯注地看着。但这一次，克劳利小姐的脸并没有转过；她的脸没有转开。她和比特夫人正视着他的脸，无情地割伤了他们的侄子。他坐回座位上，咒骂了一声，然后冲出了擂台，拼命地冲回家去。

It was a gallant and decided triumph for Mrs. Bute. But she felt the danger of many such meetings, as she saw the evident nervousness of Miss Crawley; and she determined that it was most necessary for her dear friend’s health, that they should leave town for a while, and recommended Brighton very strongly.
对于布特夫人来说，这是一次英勇而决定性的胜利。但当她看到克劳利小姐明显的紧张时，她感受到了许多这样的会议的危险。她认为，为了她亲爱的朋友的健康，他们应该离开小镇一段时间，并强烈推荐布莱顿。

Chapter XX
第二十章


In Which Captain Dobbin Acts as the Messenger of Hymen
多宾船长在其中扮演处女膜使者

Without knowing how, Captain William Dobbin found himself the great promoter, arranger, and manager of the match between George Osborne and Amelia. But for him it never would have taken place: he could not but confess as much to himself, and smiled rather bitterly as he thought that he of all men in the world should be the person upon whom the care of this marriage had fallen. But though indeed the conducting of this negotiation was about as painful a task as could be set to him, yet when he had a duty to perform, Captain Dobbin was accustomed to go through it without many words or much hesitation: and, having made up his mind completely, that if Miss Sedley was balked of her husband she would die of the disappointment, he was determined to use all his best endeavours to keep her alive.
不知道怎么的，威廉·多宾上尉发现自己是乔治·奥斯本和阿米莉亚之间比赛的伟大推动者、安排者和管理者。要不是他，这件事永远不会发生：他不得不向自己承认这一点，并苦笑起来，因为他认为，在世界上所有人中，他应该是负责这桩婚姻的人。但是，尽管进行这次谈判确实是一项非常痛苦的任务，但当他有义务要履行时，多宾船长习惯于不说太多话或犹豫不决地完成它：并且，他完全明白，如果塞德利小姐拒绝她的丈夫，她就会失望而死，他决心尽一切努力让她活着。

I forbear to enter into minute particulars of the interview between George and Amelia, when the former was brought back to the feet (or should we venture to say the arms?) of his young mistress by the intervention of his friend honest William. A much harder heart than George’s would have melted at the sight of that sweet face so sadly ravaged by grief and despair, and at the simple tender accents in which she told her little broken-hearted story: but as she did not faint when her mother, trembling, brought Osborne to her; and as she only gave relief to her overcharged grief, by laying her head on her lover’s shoulder and there weeping for a while the most tender, copious, and refreshing tears—old Mrs. Sedley, too greatly relieved, thought it was best to leave the young persons to themselves; and so quitted Emmy crying over George’s hand, and kissing it humbly, as if he were her supreme chief and master, and as if she were quite a guilty and unworthy person needing every favour and grace from him.
我没有透露乔治和阿米莉亚之间会面的细节，当时乔治在他的朋友诚实的威廉的介入下重新站到了他年轻情妇的脚下（或者我们应该大胆地说手臂？）。看到那张甜美的脸庞，被悲痛和绝望如此悲惨地蹂躏，看到她用简单温柔的口音讲述着她心碎的小故事，一颗比乔治坚强得多的心都会融化：但正如她母亲在听到她的声音时，她并没有晕倒一样。颤抖着把奥斯本带到了她身边。她把头靠在爱人的肩膀上，哭了一会儿，流下了最温柔、最丰富、最清新的泪水，以此来缓解过度的悲伤——老塞德利太太松了一口气，认为最好离开年轻人自己；于是艾美就不再为乔治的手哭泣，而是谦卑地亲吻它，就好像他是她的至高无上的酋长和主人，就好像她是一个非常内疚和不值得的人，需要他的每一份恩惠和恩典。

This prostration and sweet unrepining obedience exquisitely touched and flattered George Osborne. He saw a slave before him in that simple yielding faithful creature, and his soul within him thrilled secretly somehow at the knowledge of his power. He would be generous-minded, Sultan as he was, and raise up this kneeling Esther and make a queen of her: besides, her sadness and beauty touched him as much as her submission, and so he cheered her, and raised her up and forgave her, so to speak. All her hopes and feelings, which were dying and withering, this her sun having been removed from her, bloomed again and at once, its light being restored. You would scarcely have recognised the beaming little face upon Amelia’s pillow that night as the one that was laid there the night before, so wan, so lifeless, so careless of all round about. The honest Irish maid-servant, delighted with the change, asked leave to kiss the face that had grown all of a sudden so rosy. Amelia put her arms round the girl’s neck and kissed her with all her heart, like a child. She was little more. She had that night a sweet refreshing sleep, like one—and what a spring of inexpressible happiness as she woke in the morning sunshine!
这种俯首帖耳和甜蜜无怨的服从让乔治·奥斯本深受感动和受宠若惊。他在这个简单、屈服、忠诚的生物身上看到了他面前的一个奴隶，他内心的灵魂因了解他的力量而暗自兴奋。他会心胸宽广，尽管他是苏丹，也会把跪着的埃丝特举起来，让她成为王后：此外，她的悲伤和美丽和她的屈服一样触动了他，所以他为她欢呼，把她举起来，让她成为王后。可以这么说，原谅了她。她所有的希望和感情，都在消亡和枯萎，她的太阳已经离她而去，但立刻又绽放出来，光芒又恢复了。你几乎认不出那天晚上阿米莉亚枕头上那张笑意盈盈的小脸，就是前一天晚上躺在那里的那张脸，那么苍白，那么毫无生气，对周围的一切都那么漠不关心。诚实的爱尔兰女仆对这个变化感到很高兴，请求允许亲吻一下突然变得红润的脸。阿米莉亚用双臂搂住女孩的脖子，像个孩子一样全心全意地吻着她。她还差一点点。那天晚上，她睡得很香甜，神清气爽，就像在早晨的阳光下醒来一样，这是一种难以形容的幸福春天！

‘He will be here again to-day,’ Amelia thought. ‘He is the greatest and best of men.’ And the fact is, that George thought he was one of the generousest creatures alive: and that he was making a tremendous sacrifice in marrying this young creature.
“他今天会再次来到这里，”阿米莉亚想。 “他是最伟大、最优秀的人。”事实是，乔治认为自己是世上最慷慨的人之一：为了娶这个年轻的人，他做出了巨大的牺牲。

While she and Osborne were having their delightful tete-a-tete above stairs, old Mrs. Sedley and Captain Dobbin were conversing below upon the state of the affairs, and the chances and future arrangements of the young people. Mrs. Sedley having brought the two lovers together and left them embracing each other with all their might, like a true woman, was of opinion that no power on earth would induce Mr. Sedley to consent to the match between his daughter and the son of a man who had so shamefully, wickedly, and monstrously treated him. And she told a long story about happier days and their earlier splendours, when Osborne lived in a very humble way in the New Road, and his wife was too glad to receive some of Jos’s little baby things, with which Mrs. Sedley accommodated her at the birth of one of Osborne’s own children. The fiendish ingratitude of that man, she was sure, had broken Mr. S.’s heart: and as for a marriage, he would never, never, never, never consent.
当她和奥斯本在楼梯上进行愉快的交谈时，塞德利老太太和多宾船长正在楼下谈论事态、年轻人的机会和未来的安排。塞德利夫人把这两个恋人带到了一起，让他们像一个真正的女人一样用尽全力拥抱在一起，她认为世上没有任何力量可以促使塞德利先生同意他的女儿和他的儿子之间的婚姻。一个对他如此可耻、邪恶和可怕的人。她讲述了一个很长的故事，讲述了幸福的日子和他们早期的辉煌，当时奥斯本在新路过着非常简陋的生活，他的妻子很高兴收到乔斯的一些婴儿小东西，塞德利夫人用这些东西安置了她奥斯本自己的一个孩子的出生。她确信，那个男人的忘恩负义已经伤了S先生的心：至于婚姻，他永远、永远、永远、永远不会同意。

‘They must run away together, Ma’am,’ Dobbin said, laughing, ‘and follow the example of Captain Rawdon Crawley, and Miss Emmy’s friend the little governess.’ Was it possible? Well she never! Mrs. Sedley was all excitement about this news. She wished that Blenkinsop were here to hear it: Blenkinsop always mistrusted that Miss Sharp.— What an escape Jos had had! and she described the already well-known love-passages between Rebecca and the Collector of Boggley Wollah.
“他们必须一起逃跑，女士，”多宾笑着说，“效仿罗登·克劳利船长和艾美小姐的朋友小家庭女教师的榜样。”这可能吗？好吧，她从来没有！塞德利夫人听到这个消息非常兴奋。她希望布伦金索普在这里听到：布伦金索普总是不信任夏普小姐。——乔斯逃脱得多么顺利啊！她描述了丽贝卡和博格利·沃拉收藏家之间众所周知的爱情故事。

It was not, however, Mr. Sedley’s wrath which Dobbin feared, so much as that of the other parent concerned, and he owned that he had a very considerable doubt and anxiety respecting the behaviour of the black-browed old tyrant of a Russia merchant in Russell Square. He has forbidden the match peremptorily, Dobbin thought. He knew what a savage determined man Osborne was, and how he stuck by his word. ‘The only chance George has of reconcilement,’ argued his friend, ‘is by distinguishing himself in the coming campaign. If he dies they both go together. If he fails in distinction—what then? He has some money from his mother, I have heard enough to purchase his majority—or he must sell out and go and dig in Canada, or rough it in a cottage in the country.’ With such a partner Dobbin thought he would not mind Siberia—and, strange to say, this absurd and utterly imprudent young fellow never for a moment considered that the want of means to keep a nice carriage and horses, and of an income which should enable its possessors to entertain their friends genteelly, ought to operate as bars to the union of George and Miss Sedley.
然而，多宾所担心的并不是塞德利先生的愤怒，而是另一位家长的愤怒，他承认自己对俄罗斯商人这位黑眉毛的老暴君的行为抱有相当大的怀疑和焦虑。在罗素广场。他强行禁止了这场比赛，多宾想。他知道奥斯本是一个多么野蛮而坚定的人，也知道他如何信守诺言。 “乔治唯一的和解机会，”他的朋友辩称，“就是在即将到来的竞选中脱颖而出。”如果他死了，他们就会一起去。如果他在区分上失败了——那又怎样呢？他从他母亲那里得到了一些钱，我听说足够购买他的多数股权，否则他必须卖掉并去加拿大挖掘，或者在乡下的小屋里艰难地生活。”有了这样的合作伙伴，多宾认为他不会介意西伯利亚——说来也奇怪，这个荒唐、极其轻率的年轻人从来没有考虑过，缺乏维持一辆漂亮马车和马匹的手段，以及使拥有者能够优雅地款待朋友的收入，应该是一种需要。作为乔治和塞德利小姐的联盟的酒吧。

It was these weighty considerations which made him think too that the marriage should take place as quickly as possible. Was he anxious himself, I wonder, to have it over?—as people, when death has occurred, like to press forward the funeral, or when a parting is resolved upon, hasten it. It is certain that Mr. Dobbin, having taken the matter in hand, was most extraordinarily eager in the conduct of it. He urged on George the necessity of immediate action: he showed the chances of reconciliation with his father, which a favourable mention of his name in the Gazette must bring about. If need were he would go himself and brave both the fathers in the business. At all events, he besought George to go through with it before the orders came, which everybody expected, for the departure of the regiment from England on foreign service.
正是这些重大的考虑，让他也认为这桩婚事应该尽快举行。我想知道，他自己是否也急于结束这一切？就像人们一样，当死亡发生时，喜欢把葬礼提前，或者当决定离别时，会加速它。可以肯定的是，多宾先生接手此事后，是非常热心地处理这件事的。他敦促乔治立即采取行动：他展示了与父亲和解的机会，而在公报上积极提及他的名字必然会带来这种结果。如果需要的话，他会亲自去，勇敢地为两位父亲做生意。无论如何，他恳求乔治在命令到来之前完成这件事，这是每个人都预料到的，要求该团离开英国执行外交任务。

Bent upon these hymeneal projects, and with the applause and consent of Mrs. Sedley, who did not care to break the matter personally to her husband, Mr. Dobbin went to seek John Sedley at his house of call in the City, the Tapioca Coffee-house, where, since his own offices were shut up, and fate had overtaken him, the poor brokendown old gentleman used to betake himself daily, and write letters and receive them, and tie them up into mysterious bundles, several of which he carried in the flaps of his coat. I don’t know anything more dismal than that business and bustle and mystery of a ruined man: those letters from the wealthy which he shows you: those worn greasy documents promising support and offering condolence which he places wistfully before you, and on which he builds his hopes of restoration and future fortune. My beloved reader has no doubt in the course of his experience been waylaid by many such a luckless companion. He takes you into the corner; he has his bundle of papers out of his gaping coat pocket; and the tape off, and the string in his mouth, and the favourite letters selected and laid before you; and who does not know the sad eager half-crazy look which he fixes on you with his hopeless eyes?
杜宾先生一心致力于这些处女膜项目，在塞德利夫人的掌声和同意下，塞德利夫人不想亲自向她的丈夫透露这件事，多宾先生前往约翰·塞德利在城里的木薯咖啡店寻找约翰·塞德利。 -房子，自从他自己的办公室被关闭，命运降临到他身上后，这位可怜的、崩溃的老绅士每天都在那里写信、接收信件，并将它们捆成神秘的包裹，其中有几个是他随身携带的在他外套的襟翼里。我不知道有什么比一个破产者的生意、喧嚣和神秘更令人沮丧的了：他给你看的那些来自富人的信件：那些破旧油腻的文件，承诺支持和表示哀悼，他若有所思地放在你面前，在上面他写了一封信。建立了他复兴和未来财富的希望。我亲爱的读者无疑在他的经历中被许多这样不幸的同伴伏击过。他把你带到角落；他从张开的外套口袋里拿出一叠文件。胶带被撕掉，绳子叼在他嘴里，选出最喜欢的字母放在你面前；谁不知道他用那双绝望的眼睛注视着你的悲伤、急切、半疯狂的眼神呢？

Changed into a man of this sort, Dobbin found the once florid, jovial, and prosperous John Sedley. His coat, that used to be so glossy and trim, was white at the seams, and the buttons showed the copper. His face had fallen in, and was unshorn; his frill and neckcloth hung limp under his bagging waistcoat. When he used to treat the boys in old days at a coffee-house, he would shout and laugh louder than anybody there, and have all the waiters skipping round him; it was quite painful to see how humble and civil he was to John of the Tapioca, a blear-eyed old attendant in dingy stockings and cracked pumps, whose business it was to serve glasses of wafers, and bumpers of ink in pewter, and slices of paper to the frequenters of this dreary house of entertainment, where nothing else seemed to be consumed. As for William Dobbin, whom he had tipped repeatedly in his youth, and who had been the old gentleman’s butt on a thousand occasions, old Sedley gave his hand to him in a very hesitating humble manner now, and called him ‘Sir.’ A feeling of shame and remorse took possession of William Dobbin as the broken old man so received and addressed him, as if he himself had been somehow guilty of the misfortunes which had brought Sedley so low.
变成这样的人后，多宾找到了曾经辉煌、快乐、繁荣的约翰·塞德利。他的外套原本是那么光滑、整洁，现在接缝处变成了白色，纽扣上露出了铜色。他的脸凹陷了，胡子也没有剃。他的褶边和领巾松软地垂在他的背心下面。以前，当他在咖啡馆招待男孩们时，他会比那里的任何人都大声喊叫和大笑，让所有的服务员都在他身边跳来跳去。看到他对木薯约翰是多么谦虚和礼貌，真是令人痛苦，约翰是一位眼睛昏花的老服务员，穿着肮脏的长袜和破裂的水泵，他的工作是提供一杯威化饼，锡镴墨水和切片纸给常客这个沉闷的娱乐场所，那里似乎没有其他东西被消费。至于威廉·多宾，他年轻时曾多次向他小费，曾千百次成为老绅士的屁股，老塞德利现在以一种非常犹豫的谦卑态度向他伸出了手，并称他为“先生”。威廉·多宾感到羞愧和悔恨，因为这位精神崩溃的老人如此接待和称呼他，就好像他自己对导致塞德利如此低落的不幸负有某种罪责。

‘I am very glad to see you, Captain Dobbin, sir,’ says he, after a skulking look or two at his visitor (whose lanky figure and military appearance caused some excitement likewise to twinkle in the blear eyes of the waiter in the cracked dancing pumps, and awakened the old lady in black, who dozed among the mouldy old coffee-cups in the bar). ‘How is the worthy alderman, and my lady, your excellent mother, sir?’ He looked round at the waiter as he said, ‘My lady,’ as much as to say, ‘Hark ye, John, I have friends still, and persons of rank and reputation, too.’ ‘Are you come to do anything in my way, sir? My young friends Dale and Spiggot do all my business for me now, until my new offices are ready; for I’m only here temporarily, you know, Captain. What can we do for you. sir? Will you like to take anything?’
“我很高兴见到你，多宾船长，先生，”他偷偷看了他的客人一两眼后说道（他瘦长的身材和军人般的外表同样引起了一些兴奋，在裂开的服务员的模糊的眼睛里闪烁着光芒）。舞动的水泵，吵醒了正在酒吧发霉的旧咖啡杯中打瞌睡的黑衣老太太）。 “尊敬的市议员，还有我的夫人，您出色的母亲，先生，怎么样？”他环顾侍者，说道，“夫人，”几乎是在说，“听着，约翰，我还有朋友， “您是来妨碍我的吗，先生？我的年轻朋友戴尔和斯皮戈特现在为我处理所有的事务，直到我的新办公室准备就绪为止；因为我只是暂时在这里，你知道，船长。我们能为您做什么。先生？你想拿点东西吗？

Dobbin, with a great deal of hesitation and stuttering, protested that he was not in the least hungry or thirsty; that he had no business to transact; that he only came to ask if Mr. Sedley was well, and to shake hands with an old friend; and, he added, with a desperate perversion of truth, ‘My mother is very well—that is, she’s been very unwell, and is only waiting for the first fine day to go out and call upon Mrs. Sedley. How is Mrs. Sedley, sir? I hope she’s quite well.’ And here he paused, reflecting on his own consummate hypocrisy; for the day was as fine, and the sunshine as bright as it ever is in Coffin Court, where the Tapioca Coffee-house is situated: and Mr. Dobbin remembered that he had seen Mrs. Sedley himself only an hour before, having driven Osborne down to Fulham in his gig, and left him there tete-a-tete with Miss Amelia.
多宾非常犹豫，结结巴巴地抗议说他一点也不饿也不渴。他没有生意可做；他只是来询问塞德利先生是否还好，并与一位老朋友握手。他补充道，绝望地曲解了事实，“我的母亲很好——也就是说，她身体非常不舒服，只是在等待第一个晴朗的日子出去拜访塞德利夫人。”先生，塞德利夫人怎么样？我希望她一切都好。”说到这里，他停了下来，反思自己的虚伪。因为那天天气一如既往地晴朗，科芬庭院里的阳光一如既往地明媚，塔皮奥卡咖啡馆就坐落在那里。多宾先生记得，就在一个小时前，他开车送奥斯本去的时候，还见过塞德利夫人本人。开着他的马车去富勒姆，把他留在那儿和阿米莉亚小姐坐在一起。

‘My wife will be very happy to see her ladyship,’ Sedley replied, pulling out his papers. ‘I’ve a very kind letter here from your father, sir, and beg my respectful compliments to him. Lady D. will find us in rather a smaller house than we were accustomed to receive our friends in; but it’s snug, and the change of air does good to my daughter, who was suffering in town rather—you remember little Emmy, sir?—yes, suffering a good deal.’ The old gentleman’s eyes were wandering as he spoke, and he was thinking of something else, as he sate thrumming on his papers and fumbling at the worn red tape.
“我的妻子会很高兴见到她的女士，”塞德利一边回答，一边拿出他的文件。 “先生，我收到了你父亲写来的一封非常友善的信，请我向他致以崇高的敬意。 D. 女士会发现我们住的房子比我们平时接待朋友的房子要小得多。 “不过很舒服，换换空气对我的女儿有好处，她在城里受苦不少——你还记得小艾美吗，先生？——是的，受了很多苦。”老绅士说话时眼神游移，他当他坐下来翻阅文件并摸索着破旧的繁文缛节时，他正在想着别的事情。

‘You’re a military man,’ he went on; ‘I ask you, Bill Dobbin, could any man ever have speculated upon the return of that Corsican scoundrel from Elba? When the allied sovereigns were here last year, and we gave ‘em that dinner in the City, sir, and we saw the Temple of Concord, and the fireworks, and the Chinese bridge in St. James’s Park, could any sensible man suppose that peace wasn’t really concluded, after we’d actually sung Te Deum for it, sir? I ask you, William, could I suppose that the Emperor of Austria was a damned traitor—a traitor, and nothing more? I don’t mince words—a double-faced infernal traitor and schemer, who meant to have his son-in-law back all along. And I say that the escape of Boney from Elba was a damned imposition and plot, sir, in which half the powers of Europe were concerned, to bring the funds down, and to ruin this country. That’s why I’m here, William. That’s why my name’s in the Gazette. Why, sir?—because I trusted the Emperor of Russia and the Prince Regent. Look here. Look at my papers. Look what the funds were on the 1st of March—what the French fives were when I bought for the count. And what they’re at now. There was collusion, sir, or that villain never would have escaped. Where was the English Commissioner who allowed him to get away? He ought to be shot, sir —brought to a court-martial, and shot, by Jove.’
“你是一名军人，”他继续说道。 “我问你，比尔·多宾，有人曾猜测过那个科西嘉恶棍会从厄尔巴岛回来吗？去年，当盟国主权者来到这里时，我们在城里为他们提供了晚宴，先生，我们看到了协和寺、烟火和圣詹姆斯公园的中国桥，任何明智的人都可以想象吗？在我们为和平唱完赞美诗之后，和平并没有真正结束，先生？我问你，威廉，我是否可以认为奥地利皇帝是一个该死的叛徒——一个叛徒，仅此而已？我毫不拐弯抹角——一个双面的地狱叛徒和阴谋家，他一直想让他的女婿回来。我要说的是，先生，博尼逃离厄尔巴岛是一场该死的强加和阴谋，欧洲一半的力量都参与其中，目的是减少资金并毁掉这个国家。这就是我来这里的原因，威廉。这就是为什么我的名字出现在公报上。为什么，先生？——因为我信任俄罗斯皇帝和摄政王。看这里。看看我的论文。看看 3 月 1 日的资金是多少——我买来计数时的法国五元是多少。以及他们现在的处境。先生，这里面有勾结，否则那个恶棍永远也逃不掉。允许他逃跑的英国专员在哪里？他应该被枪杀，长官——被带到军事法庭，被朱庇特枪杀。”

‘We’re going to hunt Boney out, sir,’ Dobbin said, rather alarmed at the fury of the old man, the veins of whose forehead began to swell, and who sate drumming his papers with his clenched fist. ‘We are going to hunt him out, sir—the Duke’s in Belgium already, and we expect marching orders every day.’
“我们要去追捕波尼，长官，”多宾说道，他对老人的愤怒感到相当震惊，他额头上的青筋开始肿胀，他坐在那里用紧握的拳头敲击着他的文件。 “我们要去追捕他，先生——公爵已经在比利时了，我们每天都期待着行军命令。”

‘Give him no quarter. Bring back the villain’s head, sir. Shoot the coward down, sir,’ Sedley roared. ‘I’d enlist myself, by—; but I’m a broken old man—ruined by that damned scoundrel—and by a parcel of swindling thieves in this country whom I made, sir, and who are rolling in their carriages now,’ he added, with a break in his voice.
“不要宽恕他。”把坏人的头拿回来，先生。射杀这个胆小鬼，长官，”塞德利咆哮道。 “我会自己入伍，通过——；但我是一个破碎的老人——被那个该死的恶棍毁了——被我在这个国家制造的一群骗子毁了，先生，他们现在正在马车上滚动，”他补充道，声音断断续续。 。

Dobbin was not a little affected by the sight of this once kind old friend, crazed almost with misfortune and raving with senile anger. Pity the fallen gentleman: you to whom money and fair repute are the chiefest good; and so, surely, are they in Vanity Fair.
看到这位曾经善良的老朋友，多宾受到了不小的影响，他因不幸而几乎发疯，因老年的愤怒而胡言乱语。可怜这位倒下的绅士吧：对你来说，金钱和名誉是最重要的；当然，他们也出现在《名利场》中。

‘Yes,’ he continued, ‘there are some vipers that you warm, and they sting you afterwards. There are some beggars that you put on horseback, and they’re the first to ride you down. You know whom I mean, William Dobbin, my boy. I mean a purse-proud villain in Russell Square, whom I knew without a shilling, and whom I pray and hope to see a beggar as he was when I befriended him.’
“是的，”他继续说道，“有一些毒蛇，你加热后它们就会蜇你。你让一些乞丐骑在马背上，他们是第一个将你骑倒的人。你知道我指的是谁，威廉·多宾，我的孩子。我指的是罗素广场上一个以钱包为荣的恶棍，我认识他时没有一先令，我祈祷并希望看到他像我和他交朋友时那样的乞丐。

‘I have heard something of this, sir, from my friend George,’ Dobbin said, anxious to come to his point. ‘The quarrel between you and his father has cut him up a great deal, sir. Indeed, I’m the bearer of a message from him.’
“先生，我从我的朋友乔治那里听说了一些事情，”多宾急切地想表达自己的观点。 “您和他父亲之间的争吵让他很伤心，先生。事实上，我是他传达的信息的传达者。

‘O, THAT’S your errand, is it?’ cried the old man, jumping up. ‘What! perhaps he condoles with me, does he? Very kind of him, the stiff-backed prig, with his dandified airs and West End swagger. He’s hankering about my house, is he still? If my son had the courage of a man, he’d shoot him. He’s as big a villain as his father. I won’t have his name mentioned in my house. I curse the day that ever I let him into it; and I’d rather see my daughter dead at my feet than married to him.’
“哦，这就是你的任务，是吗？”老人跳起来喊道。 '什么！也许他正在向我表示哀悼，是吗？他真是太好了，这个背脊僵硬的假正经者，有着花花公子的神态和伦敦西区的招摇。他还想念我的房子吗？如果我儿子有男人的勇气，他就会开枪打死他。他和他父亲一样是个大恶棍。我不会让他的名字在我家里被提及。我诅咒我让他介入的那一天；我宁愿看到我的女儿死在我脚下，也不愿嫁给他。”

‘His father’s harshness is not George’s fault, sir. Your daughter’s love for him is as much your doing as his. Who are you, that you are to play with two young people’s affections and break their hearts at your will?’
“他父亲的严厉不是乔治的错，先生。你女儿对他的爱是你的，也是他的。你到底是谁，竟然可以玩弄两个年轻人的感情，随意伤他们的心？

‘Recollect it’s not his father that breaks the match off,’ old Sedley cried out. ‘It’s I that forbid it. That family and mine are separated for ever. I’m fallen low, but not so low as that: no, no. And so you may tell the whole race—son, and father and sisters, and all.’
“记住，中断比赛的不是他的父亲，”老塞德利喊道。 ‘是我禁止的。我的家人和我永远分开了。我已经堕落了，但还没有那么低：不，不。所以你可以告诉整个种族——儿子、父亲和姐妹，以及所有人。”

‘It’s my belief, sir, that you have not the power or the right to separate those two,’ Dobbin answered in a low voice; ‘and that if you don’t give your daughter your consent it will be her duty to marry without it. There’s no reason she should die or live miserably because you are wrong-headed. To my thinking, she’s just as much married as if the banns had been read in all the churches in London. And what better answer can there be to Osborne’s charges against you, as charges there are, than that his son claims to enter your family and marry your daughter?’
“我相信，先生，您没有权力或权利将这两个人分开，”多宾低声回答道。 “如果你不同意你的女儿，她就有责任在没有得到同意的情况下结婚。”她没有理由因为你的错误而死去或生活得很悲惨。在我看来，她已经结婚了，就像伦敦所有教堂都宣读了横幅一样。对于奥斯本对你的指控，还有什么比他的儿子声称进入你的家庭并娶你的女儿更好的答案呢？

A light of something like satisfaction seemed to break over old Sedley as this point was put to him: but he still persisted that with his consent the marriage between Amelia and George should never take place.
当这一点向老塞德利提出时，他似乎感到一种类似满足的光芒：但他仍然坚持认为，如果他同意，阿米莉亚和乔治之间的婚姻永远不应该发生。

‘We must do it without,’ Dobbin said, smiling, and told Mr. Sedley, as he had told Mrs. Sedley in the day, before, the story of Rebecca’s elopement with Captain Crawley. It evidently amused the old gentleman. ‘You’re terrible fellows, you Captains,’ said he, tying up his papers; and his face wore something like a smile upon it, to the astonishment of the blear-eyed waiter who now entered, and had never seen such an expression upon Sedley’s countenance since he had used the dismal coffee-house.
“我们必须不这样做，”多宾微笑着说，然后告诉塞德利先生，就像他在前一天告诉塞德利夫人丽贝卡与克劳利船长私奔的故事一样。这显然把老先生逗乐了。 “你们这些船长，真是可怕的家伙，”他一边说，一边把文件捆扎起来。他的脸上挂着某种微笑，令进来的那个双眼昏花的侍者感到惊讶，自从塞德利去过这间阴暗的咖啡馆以来，他从未在他的脸上看到过这样的表情。

The idea of hitting his enemy Osborne such a blow soothed, perhaps, the old gentleman: and, their colloquy presently ending, he and Dobbin parted pretty good friends.
也许，用这样的一击打击他的敌人奥斯本的想法让这位老绅士感到安慰：他们的谈话即将结束，他和多宾分手了，他们是好朋友。

‘My sisters say she has diamonds as big as pigeons’ eggs,’ George said, laughing. ‘How they must set off her complexion! A perfect illumination it must be when her jewels are on her neck. Her jetblack hair is as curly as Sambo’s. I dare say she wore a nose ring when she went to court; and with a plume of feathers in her top-knot she would look a perfect Belle Sauvage.’
“我的姐妹们说她有鸽子蛋那么大的钻石，”乔治笑着说。 ‘它们多么衬托她的肤色啊！当她的珠宝挂在脖子上时，一定是一个完美的照明。她的乌黑头发和桑博的头发一样卷曲。我敢说她上法庭时戴着鼻环；如果她的顶髻上有一缕羽毛，她看起来就像一个完美的美女索瓦奇（Belle Sauvage）。

George, in conversation with Amelia, was rallying the appearance of a young lady of whom his father and sisters had lately made the acquaintance, and who was an object of vast respect to the Russell Square family. She was reported to have I don’t know how many plantations in the West Indies; a deal of money in the funds; and three stars to her name in the East India stockholders’ list. She had a mansion in Surrey, and a house in Portland Place. The name of the rich West India heiress had been mentioned with applause in the Morning Post. Mrs. Haggistoun, Colonel Haggistoun’s widow, her relative, ‘chaperoned’ her, and kept her house. She was just from school, where she had completed her education, and George and his sisters had met her at an evening party at old Hulker’s house, Devonshire Place (Hulker, Bullock, and Co. were long the correspondents of her house in the West Indies), and the girls had made the most cordial advances to her, which the heiress had received with great good humour. An orphan in her position—with her money—so interesting! the Misses Osborne said. They were full of their new friend when they returned from the Hulker ball to Miss Wirt, their companion; they had made arrangements for continually meeting, and had the carriage and drove to see her the very next day. Mrs. Haggistoun, Colonel Haggistoun’s widow, a relation of Lord Binkie, and always talking of him, struck the dear unsophisticated girls as rather haughty, and too much inclined to talk about her great relations: but Rhoda was everything they could wish—the frankest, kindest, most agreeable creature—wanting a little polish, but so good-natured. The girls Christian-named each other at once.
乔治在与阿米莉亚谈话时，表现出一位年轻女士的样子，他的父亲和姐妹们最近才认识她，她是罗素广场家族非常尊敬的对象。据报道，她在西印度群岛拥有不知多少个种植园；基金中的一笔资金；在东印度股东名单中，她的名字被授予三颗星。她在萨里有一座豪宅，在波特兰广场有一座房子。 《晨报》上提到这位富有的西印度女继承人的名字时，掌声雷动。哈吉斯通上校的遗孀哈吉斯通夫人是她的亲戚，“陪伴”她并看管她的房子。她刚刚从学校毕业，在那里完成了学业，乔治和他的姐妹们在德文郡老浩克家的一次晚会上遇见了她（浩克、布洛克和他的伙伴们长期以来一直是她在西部的房子的通讯员）印度），女孩们向她做出了最诚挚的示好，女继承人以极大的幽默感接受了这一举动。一个孤儿在她的地位上——还有她的钱——太有趣了！奥斯本小姐说道。当他们从浩克舞会回到他们的同伴沃特小姐身边时，他们心里充满了新朋友。他们已经安排好要经常见面，第二天就准备了马车去见她。哈吉斯通上校的遗孀哈吉斯通夫人是宾基勋爵的亲戚，她总是谈论他，这让亲爱的朴实的女孩们觉得她相当傲慢，而且太倾向于谈论她的伟大亲戚：但罗达满足了她们所希望的一切——最坦率的人。 ，最善良、最令人愉快的生物——想要一点优雅，但脾气很好。女孩们立刻互相给对方起了基督教的名字。

‘You should have seen her dress for court, Emmy,’ Osborne cried, laughing. ‘She came to my sisters to show it off, before she was presented in state by my Lady Binkie, the Haggistoun’s kinswoman. She’s related to every one, that Haggistoun. Her diamonds blazed out like Vauxhall on the night we were there. (Do you remember Vauxhall, Emmy, and Jos singing to his dearest diddle diddle darling?) Diamonds and mahogany, my dear! think what an advantageous contrast—and the white feathers in her hair—I mean in her wool. She had earrings like chandeliers; you might have lighted ‘em up, by Jove—and a yellow satin train that streeled after her like the tail of a cornet.’
“你应该看看她在法庭上的着装，艾美奖，”奥斯本笑着喊道。 “她来到我的姐妹们面前炫耀，然后由我的哈吉斯通家族的女亲戚宾基女士隆重地介绍给她。她和每个人都有关系，那个哈吉斯通。我们在那里的那天晚上，她的钻石像沃克斯豪尔一样闪闪发光。 （你还记得沃克斯豪尔、艾美和乔斯给他最亲爱的骗子唱歌吗？） 钻石和桃花心木，亲爱的！想想看，这是多么有利的对比——还有她头发上的白色羽毛——我指的是她的羊毛。她戴着像枝形吊灯一样的耳环；你可能已经点燃了它们，天哪——还有一列黄色缎子拖尾像短号的尾巴一样在她后面慢步走。

‘How old is she?’ asked Emmy, to whom George was rattling away regarding this dark paragon, on the morning of their reunion— rattling away as no other man in the world surely could.
“她多大了？”艾美问，在他们重聚的那天早上，乔治正在对艾美喋喋不休地谈论这个黑暗的典范——世界上没有其他男人可以滔滔不绝地滔滔不绝地谈论这个黑暗的典范。

‘Why the Black Princess, though she has only just left school, must be two or three and twenty. And you should see the hand she writes! Mrs. Colonel Haggistoun usually writes her letters, but in a moment of confidence, she put pen to paper for my sisters; she spelt satin satting, and Saint James’s, Saint Jams.’
为什么黑公主虽然才刚出校门，却一定是两三岁、二十岁了。你应该看看她写字的手！哈吉斯通上校夫人通常会写信，但在充满信心的时刻，她为我的姐妹们写了笔；她拼出了“satin satting”和“Saint James’s”，“Saint Jams”。

‘Why, surely it must be Miss Swartz, the parlour boarder,’ Emmy said, remembering that good-natured young mulatto girl, who had been so hysterically affected when Amelia left Miss Pinkerton’s academy.
“哦，肯定是客厅的寄宿生斯沃茨小姐，”艾美说，想起了那个心地善良的年轻混血女孩，当阿米莉亚离开平克顿小姐的学院时，她受到了如此歇斯底里的影响。

‘The very name,’ George said. ‘Her father was a German Jew—a slave-owner they say—connected with the Cannibal Islands in some way or other. He died last year, and Miss Pinkerton has finished her education. She can play two pieces on the piano; she knows three songs; she can write when Mrs. Haggistoun is by to spell for her; and Jane and Maria already have got to love her as a sister.’
“就是这个名字，”乔治说。 “她的父亲是一名德国犹太人——他们说是一名奴隶主——与食人群岛有某种联系。他去年去世了，平克顿小姐已经完成了学业。她能在钢琴上弹奏两首曲子；她会唱三首歌；当哈吉斯顿夫人来为她拼写时，她可以写作；简和玛丽亚已经像姐妹一样爱她了。”

‘I wish they would have loved me,’ said Emmy, wistfully. ‘They were always very cold to me.’
“我希望他们会爱我，”艾美若有所思地说。 “他们对我总是很冷淡。”

‘My dear child, they would have loved you if you had had two hundred thousand pounds,’ George replied. ‘That is the way in which they have been brought up. Ours is a ready-money society. We live among bankers and City big-wigs, and be hanged to them, and every man, as he talks to you, is jingling his guineas in his pocket. There is that jackass Fred Bullock is going to marry Maria—there’s Goldmore, the East India Director, there’s Dipley, in the tallow trade—OUR trade,’ George said, with an uneasy laugh and a blush. ‘Curse the whole pack of money-grubbing vulgarians! I fall asleep at their great heavy dinners. I feel ashamed in my father’s great stupid parties. I’ve been accustomed to live with gentlemen, and men of the world and fashion, Emmy, not with a parcel of turtle-fed tradesmen. Dear little woman, you are the only person of our set who ever looked, or thought, or spoke like a lady: and you do it because you’re an angel and can’t help it. Don’t remonstrate. You are the only lady. Didn’t Miss Crawley remark it, who has lived in the best company in Europe? And as for Crawley, of the Life Guards, hang it, he’s a fine fellow: and I like him for marrying the girl he had chosen.’
“我亲爱的孩子，如果你有二十万英镑，他们会爱你的，”乔治回答道。 ‘这就是他们被抚养长大的方式。我们的社会是一个现钱社会。我们生活在银行家和金融城大佬中间，被他们绞死，每个人在跟你说话时，口袋里的几尼都叮当作响。那个混蛋弗雷德·布洛克要娶玛丽亚——还有东印度总监戈德莫尔，还有牛脂行业的迪普利——我们的行业，”乔治说，带着不安的笑声和脸红。 ‘诅咒这群贪图钱财的庸俗之徒！我在他们丰盛的晚餐上睡着了。我对父亲举办的那些伟大而愚蠢的聚会感到羞愧。我已经习惯了和绅士们、世俗人士和时尚人士、艾美奖一起生活，而不是和一群养龟的商人生活在一起。亲爱的小女人，你是我们这群人中唯一一个看起来、思考或说话像一位女士的人：你这样做是因为你是天使，而且无法控制。不要抗议。你是唯一的女士。住在欧洲最好的公司里的克劳利小姐不是说过吗？至于救生员克劳利，挂吧，他是个好人：我喜欢他娶了他选择的女孩。

Amelia admired Mr. Crawley very much, too, for this; and trusted Rebecca would be happy with him, and hoped (with a laugh) Jos would be consoled. And so the pair went on prattling, as in quite early days. Amelia’s confidence being perfectly restored to her, though she expressed a great deal of pretty jealousy about Miss Swartz, and professed to be dreadfully frightened—like a hypocrite as she was— lest George should forget her for the heiress and her money and her estates in Saint Kitt’s. But the fact is, she was a great deal too happy to have fears or doubts or misgivings of any sort: and having George at her side again, was not afraid of any heiress or beauty, or indeed of any sort of danger.
阿米莉亚也因此非常钦佩克劳利先生。相信丽贝卡会对他感到高兴，并希望（笑着）乔斯会得到安慰。就这样，两人继续闲聊，就像早期那样。阿米莉亚的信心完全恢复了，尽管她对斯沃茨小姐表示了极大的嫉妒，并声称自己非常害怕——就像她是一个伪君子一样——唯恐乔治会忘记她的女继承人、她的钱和她的财产。圣基茨。但事实是，她太高兴了，没有任何形式的恐惧、怀疑或疑虑：乔治再次站在她身边，她不再害怕任何女继承人或美女，甚至任何形式的危险。

When Captain Dobbin came back in the afternoon to these people— which he did with a great deal of sympathy for them—it did his heart good to see how Amelia had grown young again—how she laughed, and chirped, and sang familiar old songs at the piano, which were only interrupted by the bell from without proclaiming Mr. Sedley’s return from the City, before whom George received a signal to retreat.
当多宾船长下午回到这些人身边时——他怀着对他们的极大同情——看到阿米莉亚又变年轻了——她笑起来，叽叽喳喳，唱着熟悉的老歌，他心里很高兴。钢琴前的音乐只被铃声打断，没有宣布塞德利先生从城里回来，乔治在塞德利先生面前收到了撤退的信号。

Beyond the first smile of recognition—and even that was an hypocrisy, for she thought his arrival rather provoking—Miss Sedley did not once notice Dobbin during his visit. But he was content, so that he saw her happy; and thankful to have been the means of making her so.
除了第一眼表示认可的微笑之外——即使那是一种虚伪，因为她认为他的到来相当令人恼火——塞德利小姐在多宾来访期间一次也没有注意到他。但看到她幸福，他就心满意足了；并感谢自己让她成为了这样的人。

Chapter XXI
第二十一章


A Quarrel About an Heiress
关于女继承人的争吵

Love may be felt for any young lady endowed with such qualities as Miss Swartz possessed; and a great dream of ambition entered into old Mr. Osborne’s soul, which she was to realize. He encouraged, with the utmost enthusiasm and friendliness, his daughters’ amiable attachment to the young heiress, and protested that it gave him the sincerest pleasure as a father to see the love of his girls so well disposed.
任何具有斯沃茨小姐这样的品质的年轻女士都会受到爱的影响。一个雄心勃勃的伟大梦想进入了老奥斯本先生的灵魂，她要实现这个梦想。他以最大的热情和友善鼓励女儿们对年轻女继承人的和蔼可亲的依恋，并抗议说，作为一个父亲，看到女儿们如此受人爱戴，他感到由衷的高兴。

‘You won’t find,’ he would say to Miss Rhoda, ‘that splendour and rank to which you are accustomed at the West End, my dear Miss, at our humble mansion in Russell Square. My daughters are plain, disinterested girls, but their hearts are in the right place, and they’ve conceived an attachment for you which does them honour—I say, which does them honour. I’m a plain, simple, humble British merchant—an honest one, as my respected friends Hulker and Bullock will vouch, who were the correspondents of your late lamented father. You’ll find us a united, simple, happy, and I think I may say respected, family—a plain table, a plain people, but a warm welcome, my dear Miss Rhoda—Rhoda, let me say, for my heart warms to you, it does really. I’m a frank man, and I like you. A glass of Champagne! Hicks, Champagne to Miss Swartz.’
他会对罗达小姐说：“亲爱的小姐，在我们位于罗素广场的简陋宅邸里，你找不到你在西区习以为常的那种辉煌和地位。”我的女儿们都是朴实、无私的女孩，但她们的心都在正确的地方，她们对你产生了一种依恋，这让她们感到荣幸——我说，这让她们感到荣幸。我是一位朴实、简单、谦逊的英国商人——一位诚实的商人，正如我尊敬的朋友浩克和布洛克所证明的那样，他们是你已故的令人悲痛的父亲的通讯员。你会发现我们是一个团结、简单、幸福、我想我可以说受人尊敬的家庭——一张朴素的桌子，一群朴素的人，但受到热烈的欢迎，我亲爱的罗达小姐——让我说，罗达，因为我的心温暖对你来说，确实如此。我是一个坦诚的人，我喜欢你。一杯香槟！希克斯，给斯沃茨小姐香槟。”

There is little doubt that old Osborne believed all he said, and that the girls were quite earnest in their protestations of affection for Miss Swartz. People in Vanity Fair fasten on to rich folks quite naturally. If the simplest people are disposed to look not a little kindly on great Prosperity (for I defy any member of the British public to say that the notion of Wealth has not something awful and pleasing to him; and you, if you are told that the man next you at dinner has got half a million, not to look at him with a certain interest)—if the simple look benevolently on money, how much more do your old worldlings regard it! Their affections rush out to meet and welcome money. Their kind sentiments awaken spontaneously towards the interesting possessors of it. I know some respectable people who don’t consider themselves at liberty to indulge in friendship for any individual who has not a certain competency, or place in society. They give a loose to their feelings on proper occasions. And the proof is, that the major part of the Osborne family, who had not, in fifteen years, been able to get up a hearty regard for Amelia Sedley, became as fond of Miss Swartz in the course of a single evening as the most romantic advocate of friendship at first sight could desire.
毫无疑问，老奥斯本相信他所说的一切，而女孩们也非常真诚地表达了对斯沃茨小姐的喜爱。 《名利场》中的人很自然地会关注有钱人。如果最简单的人对伟大的繁荣抱有不那么友善的态度（因为我不相信任何英国公众会说财富的概念对他来说没有什么可怕和令人愉快的东西；而你，如果你被告知，吃饭时旁边的那个人已经得到了五十万，不要以某种兴趣看着他）——如果简单地对金钱抱有仁慈的态度，你们的旧世俗人会更加看重它！他们的感情冲出来迎接并欢迎金钱。他们对有趣的拥有者的善意自发地觉醒。我认识一些受人尊敬的人，他们认为自己没有自由与任何没有一定能力或社会地位的人建立友谊。他们在适当的场合释放自己的感情。事实证明，奥斯本家族的主要成员在十五年里都未能对阿米莉亚·塞德利产生由衷的敬意，但在一个晚上的时间里，他们就变得像最喜欢斯沃茨小姐的人一样喜欢斯沃茨小姐。浪漫主义崇尚一见钟情的友谊之愿。

What a match for George she’d be (the sisters and Miss Wirt agreed), and how much better than that insignificant little Amelia! Such a dashing young fellow as he is, with his good looks, rank, and accomplishments, would be the very husband for her. Visions of balls in Portland Place, presentations at Court, and introductions to half the peerage, filled the minds of the young ladies; who talked of nothing but George and his grand acquaintances to their beloved new friend.
她与乔治多么般配（姐妹俩和沃特小姐都同意），而且比那个微不足道的小阿米莉亚要好得多！这样一个帅气的小伙子，颜值高，地位高，有成就，很适合她的丈夫。波特兰广场的舞会、法庭上的演讲以及一半贵族的介绍，充斥着年轻女士们的脑海。他们只向他们心爱的新朋友谈论乔治和他的熟人。

Old Osborne thought she would be a great match, too, for his son. He should leave the army; he should go into Parliament; he should cut a figure in the fashion and in the state. His blood boiled with honest British exultation, as he saw the name of Osborne ennobled in the person of his son, and thought that he might be the progenitor of a glorious line of baronets. He worked in the City and on ‘Change, until he knew everything relating to the fortune of the heiress, how her money was placed, and where her estates lay. Young Fred Bullock, one of his chief informants, would have liked to make a bid for her himself (it was so the young banker expressed it), only he was booked to Maria Osborne. But not being able to secure her as a wife, the disinterested Fred quite approved of her as a sister-in-law. ‘Let George cut in directly and win her,’ was his advice. ‘Strike while the iron’s hot, you know—while she’s fresh to the town: in a few weeks some d—fellow from the West End will come in with a title and a rotten rent-roll and cut all us City men out, as Lord Fitzrufus did last year with Miss Grogram, who was actually engaged to Podder, of Podder & Brown’s. The sooner it is done the better, Mr. Osborne; them’s my sentiments,’ the wag said; though, when Osborne had left the bank parlour, Mr. Bullock remembered Amelia, and what a pretty girl she was, and how attached to George Osborne; and he gave up at least ten seconds of his valuable time to regretting the misfortune which had befallen that unlucky young woman.
老奥斯本认为她也很适合他的儿子。他应该离开军队；他应该进入议会；他应该在时尚界和国家中崭露头角。当他看到奥斯本的名字因他的儿子而变得高贵，并认为他可能是光荣的从男爵世系的祖先时，他的血液中充满了诚实的英国人的狂喜。他在伦敦金融城和“变革”工作，直到他了解了与女继承人的财富有关的一切，她的钱是如何放置的，以及她的财产在哪里。他的主要线人之一年轻的弗雷德·布洛克（Fred Bullock）本来想亲自为她出价（这位年轻的银行家是这么表达的），但他被预订给了玛丽亚·奥斯本（Maria Osborne）。但由于无法娶到她为妻，无私的弗雷德却很认可她为嫂子。 “让乔治直接介入并赢得她，”他的建议是。 “趁热打铁，你知道的——趁她刚进城的时候：几周后，一些来自西区的家伙就会带着头衔和烂租金卷进来，把我们所有的城市男人都排除在外，因为菲茨鲁弗斯勋爵去年与格罗格拉姆小姐做过这样的事，格罗格拉姆小姐实际上已经与波德布朗公司的波德订婚了。奥斯本先生，越早完成越好； “这就是我的感受，”这位爱开玩笑的人说道。不过，当奥斯本离开银行大厅时，布洛克先生想起了阿米莉亚，想起了她是一个多么漂亮的女孩，以及对乔治·奥斯本的依恋。他放弃了至少十秒钟的宝贵时间，为那个不幸的年轻女子的不幸而感到遗憾。

While thus George Osborne’s good feelings, and his good friend and genius, Dobbin, were carrying back the truant to Amelia’s feet, George’s parent and sisters were arranging this splendid match for him, which they never dreamed he would resist.
当乔治·奥斯本的好感和他的好朋友兼天才多宾将逃学的行为带回到阿米莉亚脚下时，乔治的父母和姐妹们正在为他安排这场精彩的比赛，他们做梦也没想到他会抗拒。

When the elder Osborne gave what he called ‘a hint,’ there was no possibility for the most obtuse to mistake his meaning. He called kicking a footman downstairs a hint to the latter to leave his service. With his usual frankness and delicacy he told Mrs. Haggistoun that he would give her a cheque for five thousand pounds on the day his son was married to her ward; and called that proposal a hint, and considered it a very dexterous piece of diplomacy. He gave George finally such another hint regarding the heiress; and ordered him to marry her out of hand, as he would have ordered his butler to draw a cork, or his clerk to write a letter.
当老奥斯本给出他所谓的“暗示”时，即使是最迟钝的人也不可能误解他的意思。他称将一名男仆踢下楼是暗示后者离开他的服务。他以一贯的坦率和温柔告诉哈吉斯通夫人，在他儿子与她的受监护人结婚的那天，他会给她一张五千英镑的支票；并称该提议为暗示，并认为这是一次非常巧妙的外交。他终于给了乔治关于这位女继承人的又一个暗示。并命令他立即娶她，就像他命令他的管家拔出软木塞，或者他的职员写一封信一样。

This imperative hint disturbed George a good deal. He was in the very first enthusiasm and delight of his second courtship of Amelia, which was inexpressibly sweet to him. The contrast of her manners and appearance with those of the heiress, made the idea of a union with the latter appear doubly ludicrous and odious. Carriages and opera-boxes, thought he; fancy being seen in them by the side of such a mahogany charmer as that! Add to all that the junior Osborne was quite as obstinate as the senior: when he wanted a thing, quite as firm in his resolution to get it; and quite as violent when angered, as his father in his most stern moments.
这个势在必行的暗示让乔治很不安。他正处于第二次向阿米莉亚求爱时的最初热情和喜悦之中，这对他来说是难以言喻的甜蜜。她的举止和外表与女继承人形成鲜明对比，使得与后者结合的想法显得加倍可笑和可憎。马车和歌剧院，他想；想象一下在他们身边看到这样一个桃花心木魔术师！除此之外，年轻的奥斯本和老奥斯本一样固执：当他想要一件东西时，他的决心同样坚定；当他想要一件东西时，他的决心也一样坚定；当他想要一件东西时，他的决心也一样坚定；当他想要一件东西时，他的决心也一样坚定；当他想要一件东西时，他的决心也一样坚定；当他想要一件东西时，他的决心也一样坚定；当他想要一件东西时，他的决心一样坚定；当他想要一件东西时，他的决心一样坚定；当他想要一件东西时，他的决心一样坚定；当他想要一件东西时，他的决心一样坚定；当他想要一件东西时，他的决心一样坚定；当他想要一件东西时，他的决心一样坚定；当他想要一件东西时，他的决心一样坚定；当他想要一件东西时，他的决心一样坚定；当他想要一件东西时，他的决心一样坚定；当他想要一件东西时，他的决心一样坚定；当他想要一件东西时，他的决心一样坚定；当他想要一件东西时，他的决心一样坚定。愤怒的时候也像他父亲最严厉的时候一样暴力。

On the first day when his father formally gave him the hint that he was to place his affections at Miss Swartz’s feet, George temporised with the old gentleman. ‘You should have thought of the matter sooner, sir,’ he said. ‘It can’t be done now, when we’re expecting every day to go on foreign service. Wait till my return, if I do return”; and then he represented, that the time when the regiment was daily expecting to quit England, was exceedingly ill-chosen: that the few days or weeks during which they were still to remain at home, must be devoted to business and not to love-making: time enough for that when he came home with his majority; ‘for, I promise you,’ said he, with a satisfied air, ‘that one way or other you shall read the name of George Osborne in the Gazette.’
第一天，当他的父亲正式向他暗示他要把自己的感情放在斯沃茨小姐的脚下时，乔治就向这位老绅士妥协了。 “你应该早点想到这件事，先生，”他说。 “现在这是不可能的，因为我们每天都期待着从事外交工作。等我回来吧，如果我真的回来的话”；然后他表示，该团每天都希望离开英国，选择的时间是极其错误的：他们仍留在家里的几天或几周，必须致力于生意而不是爱情——制作：当他带着多数人回家时，时间足够了； “因为，我向你保证，”他带着满足的神情说道，“无论怎样，你都会在公报上读到乔治·奥斯本的名字。”

The father’s reply to this was founded upon the information which he had got in the City: that the West End chaps would infallibly catch hold of the heiress if any delay took place: that if he didn’t marry Miss S., he might at least have an engagement in writing, to come into effect when he returned to England; and that a man who could get ten thousand a year by staying at home, was a fool to risk his life abroad.
父亲对此的答复是基于他在城里得到的信息：如果发生任何延误，西区的小伙子们肯定会抓住女继承人：如果他不娶S小姐，他可能会至少有一份书面约定，在他返回英国后生效；一个人呆在家里一年就可以赚到一万美元，而在国外冒着生命危险是愚蠢的。

‘So that you would have me shown up as a coward, sir, and our name dishonoured for the sake of Miss Swartz’s money,’ George interposed.
“这样你就会把我当成一个胆小鬼，先生，为了斯沃茨小姐的钱而让我们的名字蒙羞，”乔治插嘴道。

This remark staggered the old gentleman; but as he had to reply to it, and as his mind was nevertheless made up, he said, ‘You will dine here to-morrow, sir, and every day Miss Swartz comes, you will be here to pay your respects to her. If you want for money, call upon Mr. Chopper.’ Thus a new obstacle was in George’s way, to interfere with his plans regarding Amelia; and about which he and Dobbin had more than one confidential consultation. His friend’s opinion respecting the line of conduct which he ought to pursue, we know already. And as for Osborne, when he was once bent on a thing, a fresh obstacle or two only rendered him the more resolute.
这句话让老先生吃了一惊。但由于他必须回答，而且他的主意已定，所以他说：“先生，您明天将在这里用餐，斯沃茨小姐每天来，您都会在这里向她致敬。”如果你想要钱，就去找乔巴先生。”这样，乔治的道路上又出现了一个新的障碍，干扰他关于阿米莉亚的计划。对此他和多宾进行了不止一次秘密磋商。我们已经知道他的朋友对他应该遵循的行为方针的看法。而对于奥斯本来说，当他曾经一心想做一件事时，一两个新的障碍只会让他更加坚定。

The dark object of the conspiracy into which the chiefs of the Osborne family had entered, was quite ignorant of all their plans regarding her (which, strange to say, her friend and chaperon did not divulge), and, taking all the young ladies’ flattery for genuine sentiment, and being, as we have before had occasion to show, of a very warm and impetuous nature, responded to their affection with quite a tropical ardour. And if the truth may be told, I dare say that she too had some selfish attraction in the Russell Square house; and in a word, thought George Osborne a very nice young man. His whiskers had made an impression upon her, on the very first night she beheld them at the ball at Messrs. Hulkers; and, as we know, she was not the first woman who had been charmed by them. George had an air at once swaggering and melancholy, languid and fierce. He looked like a man who had passions, secrets, and private harrowing griefs and adventures. His voice was rich and deep. He would say it was a warm evening, or ask his partner to take an ice, with a tone as sad and confidential as if he were breaking her mother’s death to her, or preluding a declaration of love. He trampled over all the young bucks of his father’s circle, and was the hero among those third-rate men. Some few sneered at him and hated him. Some, like Dobbin, fanatically admired him. And his whiskers had begun to do their work, and to curl themselves round the affections of Miss Swartz.
奥斯本家族的首领们所参与的阴谋的黑暗目标，对他们关于她的所有计划一无所知（奇怪的是，她的朋友和监护人没有透露这一点），并且夺走了所有年轻女士的财产。对真诚情感的奉承，以及正如我们之前有机会表现出的，非常热情和冲动的本性，以相当热带的热情回应了他们的感情。如果说实话，我敢说她在罗素广场的房子里也有一些自私的吸引力；总之，乔治·奥斯本认为他是一个非常好的年轻人。他的胡须给她留下了深刻的印象，她第一天晚上在浩克先生的舞会上看到他的胡须时；而且，正如我们所知，她并不是第一个被它们迷住的女人。乔治的神情既昂扬又忧郁，既慵懒又凶猛。他看起来像一个有激情、有秘密、有私人痛苦和冒险的人。他的声音浑厚而深沉。他会说这是一个温暖的夜晚，或者请他的伴侣吃点冰块，语气悲伤而私密，仿佛他正在向她透露她母亲的死讯，或者是爱的宣言的前奏。他践踏了他父亲圈子里的所有年轻人，是三流男人中的英雄。有些人嘲笑他，恨他。有些人，比如多宾，狂热地钦佩他。他的胡须开始发挥作用，卷曲起来，缠绕着斯沃茨小姐的爱意。

Whenever there was a chance of meeting him in Russell Square, that simple and good-natured young woman was quite in a flurry to see her dear Misses Osborne. She went to great expenses in new gowns, and bracelets, and bonnets, and in prodigious feathers. She adorned her person with her utmost skill to please the Conqueror, and exhibited all her simple accomplishments to win his favour. The girls would ask her, with the greatest gravity, for a little music, and she would sing her three songs and play her two little pieces as often as ever they asked, and with an always increasing pleasure to herself. During these delectable entertainments, Miss Wirt and the chaperon sate by, and conned over the peerage, and talked about the nobility.
每当有机会在罗素广场见到他时，那个单纯而善良的年轻女子就急忙去见她亲爱的奥斯本小姐。她花费巨资购买新礼服、手镯、帽子和大量羽毛。她用自己最精湛的技巧来装饰自己，以取悦征服者，并展示她所有简单的成就来赢得征服者的青睐。女孩们会非常严肃地向她要一点音乐，她会按照她们的要求经常唱三首歌并弹奏她的两首小曲，她自己也越来越高兴。在这些令人愉快的娱乐活动中，沃特小姐和陪同人员坐在旁边，谈论贵族，谈论贵族。

The day after George had his hint from his father, and a short time before the hour of dinner, he was lolling upon a sofa in the drawing-room in a very becoming and perfectly natural attitude of melancholy. He had been, at his father’s request, to Mr. Chopper in the City (the old-gentleman, though he gave great sums to his son, would never specify any fixed allowance for him, and rewarded him only as he was in the humour). He had then been to pass three hours with Amelia, his dear little Amelia, at Fulham; and he came home to find his sisters spread in starched muslin in the drawing-room, the dowagers cackling in the background, and honest Swartz in her favourite amber-coloured satin, with turquoise bracelets, countless rings, flowers, feathers, and all sorts of tags and gimcracks, about as elegantly decorated as a she chimney-sweep on May-day.
乔治从父亲那里得到暗示后的第二天，就在晚饭前不久，他懒洋洋地躺在客厅的沙发上，一副非常恰如其分、完全自然的忧郁态度。他应父亲的要求，去了城里的乔巴先生那里（这位老先生虽然给了他儿子一大笔钱，但从不给他规定任何固定的津贴，只有在他心情好的时候才奖励他） ）。那时他在富勒姆和阿米莉亚，他亲爱的小阿米莉亚一起度过了三个小时。他回到家，发现他的姐妹们在客厅里穿着浆过的平纹细布，贵妇们在背景中咯咯地笑，诚实的斯沃茨穿着她最喜欢的琥珀色缎子，戴着绿松石手镯、无数的戒指、鲜花、羽毛和各种各样的东西。标签和小玩意儿，装饰得就像五一节的扫烟囱女一样优雅。

The girls, after vain attempts to engage him in conversation, talked about fashions and the last drawing-room until he was perfectly sick of their chatter. He contrasted their behaviour with little Emmy’s —their shrill voices with her tender ringing tones; their attitudes and their elbows and their starch, with her humble soft movements and modest graces. Poor Swartz was seated in a place where Emmy had been accustomed to sit. Her bejewelled hands lay sprawling in her amber satin lap. Her tags and ear-rings twinkled, and her big eyes rolled about. She was doing nothing with perfect contentment, and thinking herself charming. Anything so becoming as the satin the sisters had never seen.
女孩们在试图与他交谈徒劳之后，开始谈论时尚和最后的客厅，直到他完全厌倦了她们的喋喋不休。他将他们的行为与小艾美的行为进行了对比——他们尖锐的声音与她温柔的铃声；他们的态度、他们的肘部和他们的表情，以及她谦逊柔和的动作和谦虚的优雅。可怜的斯沃茨坐在艾美习惯坐的地方。她戴着珠宝的手摊开在琥珀缎子的膝盖上。她的标签和耳环闪闪发光，她的大眼睛转动着。她做任何事都心满意足，还觉得自己很有魅力。姐妹俩从来没有见过像缎子这样合适的东西。

‘Dammy,’ George said to a confidential friend, ‘she looked like a China doll, which has nothing to do all day but to grin and wag its head. By Jove, Will, it was all I I could do to prevent myself from throwing the sofa-cushion at her.’ He restrained that exhibition of sentiment, however.
“达米，”乔治对一位亲密的朋友说，“她看起来就像一个中国娃娃，整天除了咧着嘴笑、摇摇头之外无所事事。老天爷，威尔，我能做的就是阻止自己把沙发垫扔到她身上。”不过，他克制住了这种情绪的表现。

The sisters began to play the Battle of Prague. ‘Stop that d—thing,’ George howled out in a fury from the sofa. ‘It makes me mad. You play us something, Miss Swartz, do. Sing something, anything but the Battle of Prague.’
姐妹俩开始玩布拉格之战。 “停止那个该死的东西，”乔治在沙发上愤怒地吼道。 ‘这让我很生气。斯沃茨小姐，你给我们玩点什么吧。唱点什么，除了布拉格之战以外什么都唱。

‘Shall I sing ‘Blue Eyed Mary’ or the air from the Cabinet?’ Miss Swartz asked.
“我应该唱《蓝眼睛玛丽》还是内阁的曲子？”斯沃茨小姐问。

‘That sweet thing from the Cabinet,’ the sisters said.
“内阁的那份甜蜜的事情，”姐妹们说。

‘We’ve had that,’ replied the misanthrope on the sofa
“我们已经受够了，”沙发上的愤世嫉俗者回答道

‘I can sing ‘Fluvy du Tajy,’’ Swartz said, in a meek voice, ‘if I had the words.’ It was the last of the worthy young woman’s collection.
“我可以唱《Fluvy du Tajy》，”斯沃茨用温和的声音说道，“如果我有词的话。”这是这位可敬的年轻女子的最后一首收藏。

‘O, ‘Fleuve du Tage,’’ Miss Maria cried; ‘we have the song,’ and went off to fetch the book in which it was.
“哦，‘塔格河’，”玛丽亚小姐喊道。 “我们有这首歌。”然后就去拿那首歌了。

Now it happened that this song, then in the height of the fashion, had been given to the young ladies by a young friend of theirs, whose name was on the title, and Miss Swartz, having concluded the ditty with George’s applause (for he remembered that it was a favourite of Amelia’s), was hoping for an encore perhaps, and fiddling with the leaves of the music, when her eye fell upon the title, and she saw ‘Amelia Sedley’ written in the comer.
碰巧这首歌当时非常流行，是她们的一位年轻朋友送给年轻女士们的，歌名上有她的名字，斯沃茨小姐在乔治的掌声中结束了这首小曲（因为他记得那是阿米莉亚最喜欢的一首），也许她希望再演一次，并摆弄着乐谱，这时她的目光落在标题上，看到角落里写着“阿米莉亚·塞德利”。

‘Lor!’ cried Miss Swartz, spinning swiftly round on the music-stool, ‘is it my Amelia? Amelia that was at Miss P.’s at Hammersmith? I know it is. It’s her. and—Tell me about her—where is she?’
“天啊！”斯沃茨小姐在乐谱凳上飞快地旋转着叫道，“这是我的阿米莉亚吗？哈默史密斯的 P 小姐家的阿米莉亚？我知道它是。是她。还有——告诉我关于她的事——她在哪里？

‘Don’t mention her,’ Miss Maria Osborne said hastily. ‘Her family has disgraced itself. Her father cheated Papa, and as for her, she is never to be mentioned HERE.’ This was Miss Maria’s return for George’s rudeness about the Battle of Prague.
“别提她，”玛丽亚·奥斯本小姐急忙说道。 ‘她的家人已经丢脸了。她的父亲欺骗了爸爸，至于她，这里永远不会提及她。这是玛丽亚小姐对乔治在布拉格战役中的无礼行为的报复。

‘Are you a friend of Amelia’s?’ George said, bouncing up. ‘God bless you for it, Miss Swartz. Don’t believe what the girls say. SHE’S not to blame at any rate. She’s the best—‘
“你是阿米莉亚的朋友吗？”乔治跳了起来说道。 “上帝保佑你，斯沃茨小姐。不要相信女孩子说的话。无论如何，这都不能怪她。她是最好的——”

‘You know you’re not to speak about her, George,’ cried Jane. ‘Papa forbids it.’
“你知道你不许谈论她，乔治，”简喊道。 “爸爸禁止这样做。”

‘Who’s to prevent me?’ George cried out. ‘I will speak of her. I say she’s the best, the kindest, the gentlest, the sweetest girl in England; and that, bankrupt or no, my sisters are not fit to hold candles to her. If you like her, go and see her, Miss Swartz; she wants friends now; and I say, God bless everybody who befriends her. Anybody who speaks kindly of her is my friend; anybody who speaks against her is my enemy. Thank you, Miss Swartz”; and he went up and wrung her hand.
“谁来阻止我？”乔治喊道。 “我要谈谈她。我说她是英国最好、最善良、最温柔、最可爱的女孩；而且，无论破产与否，我的姐妹们都没有资格为她捧蜡烛。如果你喜欢她，就去见她吧，斯沃茨小姐；她现在想要朋友；我说，上帝保佑所有与她成为朋友的人。凡是对她说好话的人都是我的朋友；任何反对她的人都是我的敌人。谢谢你，斯沃茨小姐”；他走上前，握住她的手。

‘George! George!’ one of the sisters cried imploringly.
'乔治！乔治！”其中一位姐妹哀求地喊道。

‘I say,’ George said fiercely, ‘I thank everybody who loves Amelia Sed—‘ He stopped. Old Osborne was in the room with a face livid with rage, and eyes like hot coals.
“我说，”乔治激烈地说，“我感谢所有爱阿米莉亚·塞德的人——”他停了下来。老奥斯本在房间里，脸色气得铁青，眼睛像热炭。

Though George had stopped in his sentence, yet, his blood being up, he was not to be cowed by all the generations of Osborne; rallying instantly, he replied to the bullying look of his father, with another so indicative of resolution and defiance that the elder man quailed in his turn, and looked away. He felt that the tussle was coming. ‘Mrs. Haggistoun, let me take you down to dinner,’ he said. ‘Give your arm to Miss Swartz, George,’ and they marched.
尽管乔治停了下来，但他的热血沸腾了，他不会被奥斯本的历代人吓倒。他立刻振作起来，回应了父亲欺负人的眼神，又用另一个如此坚定和蔑视的眼神回应了父亲，轮到他了，他也畏缩了，把目光移开了。他预感到战斗即将来临。 '太太。哈吉斯顿，让我带你去吃晚饭吧，”他说。 “乔治，把你的手臂伸给斯沃茨小姐。”然后他们就开始游行了。

‘Miss Swartz, I love Amelia, and we’ve been engaged almost all our lives,’ Osborne said to his partner; and during all the dinner, George rattled on with a volubility which surprised himself, and made his father doubly nervous for the fight which was to take place as soon as the ladies were gone.
“斯沃茨小姐，我爱阿米莉亚，我们几乎一生都订婚了，”奥斯本对他的伴侣说；整个晚宴期间，乔治喋喋不休，滔滔不绝，连他自己都感到惊讶，也让他的父亲对女士们一走后马上就要发生的战斗感到加倍紧张。

The difference between the pair was, that while the father was violent and a bully, the son had thrice the nerve and courage of the parent, and could not merely make an attack, but resist it; and finding that the moment was now come when the contest between him and his father was to be decided, he took his dinner with perfect coolness and appetite before the engagement began. Old Osborne, on the contrary, was nervous, and drank much. He floundered in his conversation with the ladies, his neighbours: George’s coolness only rendering him more angry. It made him half mad to see the calm way in which George, flapping his napkin, and with a swaggering bow, opened the door for the ladies to leave the room; and filling himself a glass of wine, smacked it, and looked his father full in the face, as if to say, ‘Gentlemen of the Guard, fire first.’ The old man also took a supply of ammunition, but his decanter clinked against the glass as he tried to fill it.
两人的不同之处在于，父亲暴力、恶霸，而儿子却有父母三倍的胆量和勇气，不仅能攻击，还能反抗；他发现自己和父亲之间的比赛即将决出胜负，于是在订婚开始前，他心情平静，胃口大好，吃完了晚饭。老奥斯本却相反，很紧张，喝了很多酒。他在与邻居女士们的交谈中陷入困境：乔治的冷静只会让他更加愤怒。看到乔治拍打着餐巾，大摇大摆地鞠了一躬，打开门让女士们离开房间，他的表情让他有点抓狂。他给自己倒了一杯酒，喝了一口，看着父亲的脸，仿佛在说：“卫兵先生们，先开火。”老人也拿了一些弹药，但他的酒瓶叮当作响。当他试图倒满玻璃杯时。

After giving a great heave, and with a purple choking face, he then began. ‘How dare you, sir, mention that person’s name before Miss Swartz to-day, in my drawing-room? I ask you, sir, how dare you do it?’
他用力一拉，脸色发紫，窒息了，然后开始了。 “先生，今天在我的客厅里，你怎么敢在斯沃茨小姐面前提到那个人的名字？我问你，先生，你怎么敢这么做？

‘Stop, sir,’ says George, ‘don’t say dare, sir. Dare isn’t a word to be used to a Captain in the British Army.’
“停下来，先生，”乔治说，“别说敢，先生。” “敢”这个词不适合英国陆军上尉使用。

‘I shall say what I like to my son, sir. I can cut him off with a shilling if I like. I can make him a beggar if I like. I WILL say what I like,’ the elder said.
“我会对我的儿子说我喜欢说的话，先生。如果我愿意的话，我可以用一先令打断他。如果我愿意，我可以让他成为乞丐。 “我会说我喜欢说的话。”长老说道。

‘I’m a gentleman though I AM your son, sir,’ George answered haughtily. ‘Any communications which you have to make to me, or any orders which you may please to give, I beg may be couched in that kind of language which I am accustomed to hear.’
“虽然我是您的儿子，但我是一位绅士，先生，”乔治傲慢地回答。 “您必须与我进行的任何沟通，或者您可能愿意发出的任何命令，我请求都可以用我习惯听到的语言来表达。”

Whenever the lad assumed his haughty manner, it always created either great awe or great irritation in the parent. Old Osborne stood in secret terror of his son as a better gentleman than himself; and perhaps my readers may have remarked in their experience of this Vanity Fair of ours, that there is no character which a low-minded man so much mistrusts as that of a gentleman.
每当孩子表现出傲慢的态度时，总会引起父母的极大敬畏或极大的恼怒。老奥斯本心里暗暗担心他的儿子比他自己更绅士。也许我的读者在我们这次名利场的经历中可能会说，没有什么品格比绅士的品格更让低俗的人如此不信任。

‘My father didn’t give me the education you have had, nor the advantages you have had, nor the money you have had. If I had kept the company SOME FOLKS have had through MY MEANS, perhaps my son wouldn’t have any reason to brag, sir, of his SUPERIORITY and WEST END AIRS (these words were uttered in the elder Osborne’s most sarcastic tones). But it wasn’t considered the part of a gentleman, in MY time, for a man to insult his father. If I’d done any such thing, mine would have kicked me downstairs, sir.’
‘我父亲没有给我你所受的教育，也没有给我你所拥有的优势，也没有给我你所拥有的金钱。如果我通过我的手段维持了一些人的陪伴，也许我的儿子就没有任何理由吹嘘他的优越性和西区风气（这些话是用老奥斯本最讽刺的语气说的）。但在我的时代，一个男人侮辱他的父亲并不被认为是绅士的行为。如果我做了这样的事，我的人就会把我踢下楼，先生。”

‘I never insulted you, sir. I said I begged you to remember your son was a gentleman as well as yourself. I know very well that you give me plenty of money,’ said George (fingering a bundle of notes which he had got in the morning from Mr. Chopper). ‘You tell it me often enough, sir. There’s no fear of my forgetting it.’
“我从来没有侮辱过您，先生。我说我请求你记住你的儿子和你一样都是一位绅士。我很清楚你给了我很多钱，”乔治说（指着早上从乔巴先生那里得到的一捆钞票）。 “你告诉我的次数已经够多了，先生。不用担心我会忘记它。

‘I wish you’d remember other things as well, sir,’ the sire answered. ‘I wish you’d remember that in this house—so long as you choose to HONOUR it with your COMPANY, Captain—I’m the master, and that name, and that that—that you—that I say—‘
“我希望您也能记住其他事情，先生，”父亲回答道。 “我希望你能记住，在这所房子里——只要你选择与你的连队一起尊重它，上尉——我就是主人，那个名字，那个——你——我说——”

‘That what, sir?’ George asked, with scarcely a sneer, filling another glass of claret.
“那是什么，先生？”乔治问道，几乎没有冷笑，一边又倒了一杯红葡萄酒。

‘——!’ burst out his father with a screaming oath—‘that the name of those Sedleys never be mentioned here, sir—not one of the whole damned lot of ‘em, sir.’
“——！”他的父亲尖叫着发誓——“那些塞德利家族的名字永远不要在这里被提及，先生——不是所有该死的‘他们’中的一个，先生。”

‘It wasn’t I, sir, that introduced Miss Sedley’s name. It was my sisters who spoke ill of her to Miss Swartz; and by Jove I’ll defend her wherever I go. Nobody shall speak lightly of that name in my presence. Our family has done her quite enough injury already, I think, and may leave off reviling her now she’s down. I’ll shoot any man but you who says a word against her.’
“先生，不是我介绍了塞德利小姐的名字。是我的姐妹们向斯沃茨小姐说她的坏话。天哪，无论我走到哪里，我都会保护她。任何人都不能在我面前轻易提及这个名字。我想，我们的家人已经对她造成了足够多的伤害，现在她情绪低落，也许就不再咒骂她了。除了你之外，谁敢对她说一句话，我就会开枪打死任何人。

‘Go on, sir, go on,’ the old gentleman said, his eyes starting out of his head.
“继续，先生，继续，”老先生说，他的眼睛都快要瞪出来了。

‘Go on about what, sir? about the way in which we’ve treated that angel of a girl? Who told me to love her? It was your doing. I might have chosen elsewhere, and looked higher, perhaps, than your society: but I obeyed you. And now that her heart’s mine you give me orders to fling it away, and punish her, kill her perhaps—for the faults of other people. It’s a shame, by Heavens,’ said George, working himself up into passion and enthusiasm as he proceeded, ‘to play at fast and loose with a young girl’s affections—and with such an angel as that—one so superior to the people amongst whom she lived, that she might have excited envy, only she was so good and gentle, that it’s a wonder anybody dared to hate her. If I desert her, sir, do you suppose she forgets me?’
“继续说什么呢，先生？关于我们如何对待那个女孩的天使？谁告诉我要爱她？这是你干的。我可能会选择其他地方，也许看起来比你们的社会更高：但我服从了你们。现在她的心是我的了，你命令我把它扔掉，并惩罚她，也许杀了她——因为别人的过错。老天爷，”乔治一边说，一边使自己充满了激情和热情，“玩弄一个年轻女孩的感情——而且是这样一个天使——一个比周围的人都优越的人。”她生活的人，她可能会引起嫉妒，只是她是如此善良和温柔，这是一个奇迹，有人敢恨她。如果我抛弃她，先生，你认为她会忘记我吗？

‘I ain’t going to have any of this dam sentimental nonsense and humbug here, sir,’ the father cried out. ‘There shall be no beggarmarriages in my family. If you choose to fling away eight thousand a year, which you may have for the asking, you may do it: but by Jove you take your pack and walk out of this house, sir. Will you do as I tell you, once for all, sir, or will you not?’
“先生，我不会在这里听这些多愁善感的废话和骗局，”父亲大声喊道。 ‘我的家族中不许有乞讨婚姻。如果你选择每年扔掉八千块钱，你可以提出要求，你可以这样做：但天哪，你带着你的背包走出了这所房子，先生。先生，你愿意一劳永逸地按照我告诉你的去做吗？

‘Marry that mulatto woman?’ George said, pulling up his shirtcollars. ‘I don’t like the colour, sir. Ask the black that sweeps opposite Fleet Market, sir. I’m not going to marry a Hottentot Venus.’
“嫁给那个黑白混血女人？”乔治拉起衬衫领子说道。 “我不喜欢这个颜色，先生。先生，问问横扫舰队市场对面的黑人。我不会嫁给霍屯督维纳斯。”

Mr. Osborne pulled frantically at the cord by which he was accustomed to summon the butler when he wanted wine—and almost black in the face, ordered that functionary to call a coach for Captain Osborne.
奥斯本先生疯狂地拉着绳子，他习惯用绳子来召唤管家，当他想要喝酒时，他的脸几乎变黑了，命令那位官员为奥斯本船长叫一辆马车。

‘I’ve done it,’ said George, coming into the Slaughters’ an hour afterwards, looking very pale.
“我已经做到了，”一小时后乔治走进屠宰场说道，脸色苍白。

‘What, my boy?’ says Dobbin.
“什么，我的孩子？”多宾说。

George told what had passed between his father and himself.
乔治讲述了他父亲和他自己之间发生的事情。

‘I’ll marry her to-morrow,’ he said with an oath. ‘I love her more every day, Dobbin.’
“我明天就娶她，”他发誓说。 “我一天比一天更爱她，多宾。”

Chapter XXII
第二十二章


A Marriage and Part of a Honeymoon
婚姻和蜜月的一部分

Enemies the most obstinate and courageous can’t hold out against starvation; so the elder Osborne felt himself pretty easy about his adversary in the encounter we have just described; and as soon as George’s supplies fell short, confidently expected his unconditional submission. It was unlucky, to be sure, that the lad should have secured a stock of provisions on the very day when the first encounter took place; but this relief was only temporary, old Osborne thought, and would but delay George’s surrender. No communication passed between father and son for some days. The former was sulky at this silence, but not disquieted; for, as he said, he knew where he could put the screw upon George, and only waited the result of that operation. He told the sisters the upshot of the dispute between them, but ordered them to take no notice of the matter, and welcome George on his return as if nothing had happened. His cover was laid as usual every day, and perhaps the old gentleman rather anxiously expected him; but he never came. Some one inquired at the Slaughters’ regarding him, where it was said that he and his friend Captain Dobbin had left town.
最顽固、最勇敢的敌人也无法抵挡饥饿；因此，在我们刚才描述的遭遇中，老奥斯本觉得自己对他的对手很轻松。一旦乔治的补给不足，他就满怀信心地期待着他无条件的屈服。诚然，不幸的是，这个小伙子在第一次遭遇的当天就已经获得了储备的粮食。但老奥斯本认为，这种缓解只是暂时的，只会推迟乔治的投降。父子之间已经好几天没有任何联系了。前者对这种沉默感到闷闷不乐，但并没有感到不安。因为，正如他所说，他知道在哪里可以对乔治施加压力，而只是等待手术的结果。他向姐妹们讲述了她们之间争执的结果，但命令她们不要理会这件事，并像什么都没发生一样欢迎乔治回来。他每天都像往常一样盖好被子，也许老先生相当焦急地等待着他。但他从来没有来过。有人向斯劳特一家询问他的情况，据说他和他的朋友多宾船长已经离开了小镇。

One gusty, raw day at the end of April—the rain whipping the pavement of that ancient street where the old Slaughters’ Coffeehouse was once situated—George Osborne came into the coffee-room, looking very haggard and pale; although dressed rather smartly in a blue coat and brass buttons, and a neat buff waistcoat of the fashion of those days. Here was his friend Captain Dobbin, in blue and brass too, having abandoned the military frock and French-grey trousers, which were the usual coverings of his lanky person.
四月底的一个风雨交加的日子——大雨拍打着老斯劳茨咖啡馆曾经所在的那条古老街道的人行道——乔治·奥斯本走进咖啡馆，看上去非常憔悴、苍白；尽管穿着一件相当漂亮的蓝色外套和黄铜纽扣，还有当时流行的整洁的浅黄色背心。这是他的朋友多宾上尉，同样穿着蓝色和黄铜色的衣服，他已经放弃了军装和法式灰色裤子，这些是他瘦长的身材的惯常穿搭。

Dobbin had been in the coffee-room for an hour or more. He had tried all the papers, but could not read them. He had looked at the clock many scores of times; and at the street, where the rain was pattering down, and the people as they clinked by in pattens, left long reflections on the shining stone: he tattooed at the table: he bit his nails most completely, and nearly to the quick (he was accustomed to ornament his great big hands in this way): he balanced the tea-spoon dexterously on the milk jug: upset it, &c., &c.; and in fact showed those signs of disquietude, and practised those desperate attempts at amusement, which men are accustomed to employ when very anxious, and expectant, and perturbed in mind.
多宾已经在咖啡室呆了一个多小时了。他已经尝试了所有的论文，但无法阅读。他已经看了时钟几十次了。在街上，雨淅淅沥沥地下着，人们穿着帕丁顿叮叮当当的声音走过，在闪亮的石头上留下了长长的倒影：他在桌子上纹身：他把指甲咬得最彻底，几乎咬到了快（他习惯用这种方式装饰他的大手）：他巧妙地将茶匙平衡在牛奶壶上：把它翻倒，等等；事实上，他们表现出了不安的迹象，并进行了那些绝望的娱乐尝试，这是人们在非常焦虑、期待和心烦意乱时习惯使用的。

Some of his comrades, gentlemen who used the room, joked him about the splendour of his costume and his agitation of manner. One asked him if he was going to be married? Dobbin laughed, and said he would send his acquaintance (Major Wagstaff of the Engineers) a piece of cake when that event took place. At length Captain Osborne made his appearance, very smartly dressed, but very pale and agitated as we have said. He wiped his pale face with a large yellow bandanna pocket-handkerchief that was prodigiously scented. He shook hands with Dobbin, looked at the clock, and told John, the waiter, to bring him some curacao. Of this cordial he swallowed off a couple of glasses with nervous eagerness. His friend asked with some interest about his health.
他的一些同志，即使用这个房间的绅士，拿他华丽的服装和他激动的举止开玩笑。有人问他要结婚吗？多宾笑了，并说当那次活动发生时，他会送给他的熟人（工程师的瓦格斯塔夫少校）一块蛋糕。奥斯本上尉终于出现了，他穿着非常考究，但正如我们所说，他脸色苍白，焦躁不安。他用一块散发着浓郁香味的黄色大手帕擦了擦苍白的脸。他和多宾握手，看了看时钟，然后告诉服务员约翰给他拿点柑橘酒。他紧张地急切地喝下了几杯这杯甜酒。他的朋友饶有兴趣地询问他的健康状况。

‘Couldn’t get a wink of sleep till daylight, Dob,’ said he. ‘Infernal headache and fever. Got up at nine, and went down to the Hummums for a bath. I say, Dob, I feel just as I did on the morning I went out with Rocket at Quebec.’
“多布，直到天亮才合眼。”他说。 ‘剧烈的头痛和发烧。九点起床，下楼去鹰嘴豆馆洗澡。我说，多布，我的感觉就像我和火箭队在魁北克出去的那个早上一样。

‘So do I,’ William responded. ‘I was a deuced deal more nervous than you were that morning. You made a famous breakfast, I remember. Eat something now.’
“我也是，”威廉回答道。 “那天早上我比你更紧张。我记得你做了一顿著名的早餐。现在吃点东西吧。

‘You’re a good old fellow, Will. I’ll drink your health, old boy, and farewell to—‘
“你是个好老伙计，威尔。我将为你的健康干杯，老伙计​​，然后告别——”

‘No, no; two glasses are enough,’ Dobbin interrupted him. ‘Here, take away the liqueurs, John. Have some cayenne-pepper with your fowl. Make haste though, for it is time we were there.’
'不，不; “两杯就够了。”多宾打断了他的话。 “约翰，把利口酒拿走。和你的家禽一起吃一些辣椒。不过要快点，因为我们该去那里了。”

It was about half an hour from twelve when this brief meeting and colloquy took place between the two captains. A coach, into which Captain Osborne’s servant put his master’s desk and dressing-case, had been in waiting for some time; and into this the two gentlemen hurried under an umbrella, and the valet mounted on the box, cursing the rain and the dampness of the coachman who was steaming beside him. ‘We shall find a better trap than this at the church-door,’ says he; ‘that’s a comfort.’ And the carriage drove on, taking the road down Piccadilly, where Apsley House and St. George’s Hospital wore red jackets still; where there were oil-lamps; where Achilles was not yet born; nor the Pimlico arch raised; nor the hideous equestrian monster which pervades it and the neighbourhood; and so they drove down by Brompton to a certain chapel near the Fulham Road there.
距离十二点大约还有半个小时，两位船长进行了这次简短的会面和交谈。奥斯本船长的仆人将主人的桌子和梳妆台放在一辆马车里，这辆马车已经等了一段时间了。两位绅士打着伞匆匆忙忙，仆人爬上箱子，咒骂着下雨，咒骂着身旁冒着热气的车夫的湿气。 “我们会在教堂门口找到比这个更好的陷阱，”他说。 “这真是一种安慰。”马车继续前行，沿着皮卡迪利大街行驶，阿普斯利庄园和圣乔治医院仍然穿着红色夹克。有油灯的地方；阿喀琉斯尚未出生的地方；皮姆利科拱门也没有凸起；也没有遍布它和附近的可怕的马术怪物；于是他们开车经过布朗普顿，来到富勒姆路附近的一个小教堂。

A chariot was in waiting with four horses; likewise a coach of the kind called glass coaches. Only a very few idlers were collected on account of the dismal rain.
一辆战车和四匹马已经在等候着。同样是一种称为玻璃马车的马车。由于雨势阴沉，只收集了极少数闲人。

‘Hang it!’ said George, ‘I said only a pair.’
“挂掉吧！”乔治说，“我说只有一双。”

‘My master would have four,’ said Mr. Joseph Sedley’s servant, who was in waiting; and he and Mr. Osborne’s man agreed as they followed George and William into the church, that it was a ‘reg’lar shabby turn hout; and with scarce so much as a breakfast or a wedding faviour.’
“我的主人想要四个，”正在等待的约瑟夫·塞德利先生的仆人说道。当他和奥斯本先生的人跟随乔治和威廉进入教堂时，他们一致认为这是一个“正规的破旧的转折点”。甚至连早餐或婚礼礼物都很少。”

‘Here you are,’ said our old friend, Jos Sedley, coming forward. ‘You’re five minutes late, George, my boy. What a day, eh? Demmy, it’s like the commencement of the rainy season in Bengal. But you’ll find my carriage is watertight. Come along, my mother and Emmy are in the vestry.’
“给你，”我们的老朋友乔斯·塞德利走上前来说道。 “你迟到了五分钟，乔治，我的孩子。”多么美好的一天，嗯？黛米，这就像孟加拉雨季的开始。但你会发现我的马车是不漏水的。来吧，我妈妈和艾美在小礼拜堂里。”

Jos Sedley was splendid. He was fatter than ever. His shirt collars were higher; his face was redder; his shirt-frill flaunted gorgeously out of his variegated waistcoat. Varnished boots were not invented as yet; but the Hessians on his beautiful legs shone so, that they must have been the identical pair in which the gentleman in the old picture used to shave himself; and on his light green coat there bloomed a fine wedding favour, like a great white spreading magnolia.
乔斯·塞德利非常出色。他比以前更胖了。他的衬衫领子更高；他的脸更红了。他的衬衫褶边在杂色背心的衬托下华丽地炫耀着。那时还没有发明涂漆靴子。但他那双漂亮的腿上的黑森人却闪闪发光，这肯定是老照片中那位绅士刮胡子时穿的那双腿。他浅绿色的外套上绽放着精美的婚礼彩礼，就像一朵巨大的白色玉兰花。

In a word, George had thrown the great cast. He was going to be married. Hence his pallor and nervousness—his sleepless night and agitation in the morning. I have heard people who have gone through the same thing own to the same emotion. After three or four ceremonies, you get accustomed to it, no doubt; but the first dip, everybody allows, is awful.
总之，乔治已经抛出了伟大的演员阵容。他要结婚了。因此，他脸色苍白、神经质——一夜未眠，早晨烦躁。我听说经历过同样事情的人也有同样的情感。毫无疑问，经过三四次仪式，你就习惯了；但每个人都承认，第一次下跌是可怕的。

The bride was dressed in a brown silk pelisse (as Captain Dobbin has since informed me), and wore a straw bonnet with a pink ribbon; over the bonnet she had a veil of white Chantilly lace, a gift from Mr. Joseph Sedley, her brother. Captain Dobbin himself had asked leave to present her with a gold chain and watch, which she sported on this occasion; and her mother gave her her diamond brooch—almost the only trinket which was left to the old lady. As the service went on, Mrs. Sedley sat and whimpered a great deal in a pew, consoled by the Irish maid-servant and Mrs. Clapp from the lodgings. Old Sedley would not be present. Jos acted for his father, giving away the bride, whilst Captain Dobbin stepped up as groomsman to his friend George.
新娘身穿棕色丝质外衣（多宾船长后来告诉我的），头戴一顶系着粉红色丝带的草帽。她的帽子上戴着白色尚蒂伊蕾丝面纱，这是她哥哥约瑟夫·塞德利先生送给她的礼物。多宾船长亲自请假送给她一条金链子和一块手表，她这次也戴着这双金表。她的母亲给了她她的钻石胸针——这几乎是老太太留给她的唯一的饰品。仪式继续进行时，塞德利夫人坐在长凳上呜咽了很久，爱尔兰女仆和克拉普夫人从住处安慰着她。老塞德利不会出席。乔斯代表他的父亲送走了新娘，而多宾队长则担任他的朋友乔治的伴郎。

There was nobody in the church besides the officiating persons and the small marriage party and their attendants. The two valets sat aloof superciliously. The rain came rattling down on the windows. In the intervals of the service you heard it, and the sobbing of old Mrs. Sedley in the pew. The parson’s tones echoed sadly through the empty walls. Osborne’s ‘I will’ was sounded in very deep bass. Emmy’s response came fluttering up to her lips from her heart, but was scarcely heard by anybody except Captain Dobbin.
教堂里除了主礼人员和小型婚宴及其侍从之外，没有其他人。两个男仆傲慢地坐着。雨点打在窗户上，哗哗作响。在仪式的间隙，你会听到它，还有坐在长椅上的老塞德利夫人的抽泣声。牧师悲伤的语气在空荡荡的墙壁里回响。奥斯本的《我愿意》以非常深沉的低音响起。艾美的回答从心底涌到了嘴边，但除了多宾船长之外，几乎没有人听到。

When the service was completed, Jos Sedley came forward and kissed his sister, the bride, for the first time for many months—George’s look of gloom had gone, and he seemed quite proud and radiant. ‘It’s your turn, William,’ says he, putting his hand fondly upon Dobbin’s shoulder; and Dobbin went up and touched Amelia on the cheek.
仪式结束后，乔斯·塞德利上前亲吻了他的妹妹，即新娘，这是几个月来的第一次——乔治的阴郁表情消失了，他显得相当自豪和容光焕发。 “轮到你了，威廉，”他一边说，一边深情地将手放在多宾的肩膀上。多宾走上前，摸了摸阿米莉亚的脸颊。

Then they went into the vestry and signed the register. ‘God bless you, Old Dobbin,’ George said, grasping him by the hand, with something very like moisture glistening in his eyes. William replied only by nodding his head. His heart was too full to say much.
然后他们走进小教堂并在登记册上签名。 “上帝保佑你，老多宾。”乔治抓住他的手说道，眼睛里闪烁着水光。威廉只是点头回应。他的心里已经很充实，说不出太多话来。

‘Write directly, and come down as soon as you can, you know,’ Osborne said. After Mrs. Sedley had taken an hysterical adieu of her daughter, the pair went off to the carriage. ‘Get out of the way, you little devils,’ George cried to a small crowd of damp urchins, that were hanging about the chapel-door. The rain drove into the bride and bridegroom’s faces as they passed to the chariot. The postilions’ favours draggled on their dripping jackets. The few children made a dismal cheer, as the carriage, splashing mud, drove away.
“直接写信，尽快下来，你知道，”奥斯本说。塞德利夫人歇斯底里地告别了女儿后，两人就上了马车。 “让开，你们这些小恶魔，”乔治对一小群在教堂门口徘徊的潮湿的顽童喊道。当新娘和新郎走上马车时，雨水打在他们的脸上。邮差们的恩惠拖在他们滴着水的夹克上。几个孩子发出一声凄凉的欢呼，马车溅起泥巴，开走了。

William Dobbin stood in the church-porch, looking at it, a queer figure. The small crew of spectators jeered him. He was not thinking about them or their laughter.
威廉·多宾站在教堂门廊上，看着它，他的身影很奇怪。一小群观众嘲笑他。他没有想到他们或他们的笑声。

‘Come home and have some tiffin, Dobbin,’ a voice cried behind him; as a pudgy hand was laid on his shoulder, and the honest fellow’s reverie was interrupted. But the Captain had no heart to go afeasting with Jos Sedley. He put the weeping old lady and her attendants into the carriage along with Jos, and left them without any farther words passing. This carriage, too, drove away, and the urchins gave another sarcastical cheer.
“多宾，回家吃点午饭吧，”一个声音在他身后喊道。当一只矮胖的手放在他的肩膀上时，诚实的家伙的遐想被打断了。但船长无心去宴请乔斯·塞德利。他把哭泣的老太太和她的侍从与乔斯一起送进了马车，然后没有再说什么就离开了他们。这辆马车也开走了，顽童们又发出一阵讽刺的欢呼声。

‘Here, you little beggars,’ Dobbin said, giving some sixpences amongst them, and then went off by himself through the rain. It was all over. They were married, and happy, he prayed God. Never since he was a boy had he felt so miserable and so lonely. He longed with a heart-sick yearning for the first few days to be over, that he might see her again.
“你们这些小乞丐，”多宾说着，给了他们一些六便士，然后独自冒雨走了。一切都结束了。他们结婚了，幸福快乐，他向上帝祈祷。从小到大，他从来没有感到如此痛苦和孤独。他怀着一种令人心碎的渴望，盼望着最初的几天能够过去，以便能再次见到她。

Some ten days after the above ceremony, three young men of our acquaintance were enjoying that beautiful prospect of bow windows on the one side and blue sea on the other, which Brighton affords to the traveller. Sometimes it is towards the ocean—smiling with countless dimples, speckled with white sails, with a hundred bathing-machines kissing the skirt of his blue garment—that the Londoner looks enraptured: sometimes, on the contrary, a lover of human nature rather than of prospects of any kind, it is towards the bow windows that he turns, and that swarm of human life which they exhibit. From one issue the notes of a piano, which a young lady in ringlets practises six hours daily, to the delight of the fellowlodgers: at another, lovely Polly, the nurse-maid, may be seen dandling Master Omnium in her arms: whilst Jacob, his papa, is beheld eating prawns, and devouring the Times for breakfast, at the window below. Yonder are the Misses Leery, who are looking out for the young officers of the Heavies, who are pretty sure to be pacing the cliff; or again it is a City man, with a nautical turn, and a telescope, the size of a six-pounder, who has his instrument pointed seawards, so as to command every pleasure-boat, herring-boat, or bathing-machine that comes to, or quits, the shore, &c., &c. But have we any leisure for a description of Brighton?—for Brighton, a clean Naples with genteel lazzaroni—for Brighton, that always looks brisk, gay, and gaudy, like a harlequin’s jacket—for Brighton, which used to be seven hours distant from London at the time of our story; which is now only a hundred minutes off; and which may approach who knows how much nearer, unless Joinville comes and untimely bombards it?
在上述仪式结束后大约十天，我们认识的三位年轻人正在欣赏布莱顿为旅行者提供的一侧是弓形窗户，另一侧是蓝色大海的美丽景色。有时，伦敦人看起来欣喜若狂，有时是面向大海——微笑着，脸上有无数的酒窝，点缀着白色的帆，一百台沐浴机亲吻着他的蓝色衣服的裙摆：有时，相反，他是一个人性的爱好者，而不是对于任何一种前景，他都会转向弓形窗户，以及它们所展现的人类生活。在一期中，一位戴小卷发的年轻女士每天练习六个小时的钢琴音符，让其他房客感到高兴：在另一期中，可以看到可爱的保姆波莉在她的怀里抚摸着 Master Omnium：而雅各布人们看到他的爸爸在下面的窗户里吃着虾，并狼吞虎咽地吃着《泰晤士报》作为早餐。那边是利里小姐，她们正在寻找重型部队的年轻军官，他们肯定正在悬崖上踱步。或者又是一个城里人，有航海能力，有一架六磅炮大小的望远镜，他的仪器指向大海，以便指挥每一艘游船、鲱鱼船或沐浴机。来到或离开海岸，等等。但我们有闲暇来描述一下布莱顿吗？——对布莱顿来说，是一个干净的那不勒斯，有着优雅的拉扎罗尼——对布莱顿来说，总是看起来轻快、快乐、艳丽，就像一件丑角的夹克——对布莱顿来说，它曾经有七小时的路程在我们的故事发生时来自伦敦；现在只剩一百分钟了；除非茹安维尔不合时宜地炮轰它，否则谁知道它能接近多少呢？

‘What a monstrous fine girl that is in the lodgings over the milliner’s,’ one of these three promenaders remarked to the other; ‘Gad, Crawley, did you see what a wink she gave me as I passed?’
“女帽商楼上的住所里有一个多么可怕的美丽女孩啊，”这三个散步者中的一个对另一个说道。 “天哪，克劳利，你看到我经过时她对我眨了眨眼睛吗？”

‘Don’t break her heart, Jos, you rascal,’ said another. ‘Don’t trifle with her affections, you Don Juan!’
“别伤她的心，乔斯，你这个流氓，”另一个人说。 “别玩弄她的感情，你唐璜！”

‘Get away,’ said Jos Sedley, quite pleased, and leering up at the maid-servant in question with a most killing ogle. Jos was even more splendid at Brighton than he had been at his sister’s marriage. He had brilliant under-waistcoats, any one of which would have set up a moderate buck. He sported a military frock-coat, ornamented with frogs, knobs, black buttons, and meandering embroidery. He had affected a military appearance and habits of late; and he walked with his two friends, who were of that profession, clinking his boot-spurs, swaggering prodigiously, and shooting death-glances at all the servant girls who were worthy to be slain.
“走开，”乔斯·塞德利非常高兴地说，用一种最致命的眼神斜视着那个女仆。乔斯在布莱顿的表现甚至比在他姐姐的婚礼上更加出色。他有一件漂亮的背心，任何一件都可以赚到一笔适中的钱。他穿着一件军装大衣，上面装饰着青蛙、旋钮、黑色纽扣和蜿蜒的刺绣。他近来已养成了军人的形象和习惯。他和他的两个朋友一起走着，他们都是这个职业，靴刺叮当作响，大摇大摆，用死亡的目光扫视着所有该杀的女仆。

‘What shall we do, boys, till the ladies return?’ the buck asked. The ladies were out to Rottingdean in his carriage on a drive.
“在女士们回来之前我们该怎么办，孩子们？”雄鹿问道。女士们乘坐马车前往罗廷丁。

‘Let’s have a game at billiards,’ one of his friends said—the tall one, with lacquered mustachios.
“我们来打台球吧，”他的一个朋友说，他个子很高，留着涂漆的小胡子。

‘No, dammy; no, Captain,’ Jos replied, rather alarmed. ‘No billiards to-day, Crawley, my boy; yesterday was enough.’
“不，亲爱的；不，船长，”乔斯相当惊慌地回答道。 “今天不打台球，克劳利，我的孩子；昨天就够了。”

‘You play very well,’ said Crawley, laughing. ‘Don’t he, Osborne? How well he made that-five stroke, eh?’
“你打得很好，”克劳利笑着说。 “不是吗，奥斯本？他五杆打得有多好，嗯？

‘Famous,’ Osborne said. ‘Jos is a devil of a fellow at billiards, and at everything else, too. I wish there were any tiger-hunting about here! we might go and kill a few before dinner. (There goes a fine girl! what an ankle, eh, Jos?) Tell us that story about the tiger-hunt, and the way you did for him in the jungle—it’s a wonderful story that, Crawley.’ Here George Osborne gave a yawn. ‘It’s rather slow work,’ said he, ‘down here; what shall we do?’
“很有名，”奥斯本说。 “乔斯在台球方面是一个魔鬼，在其他方面也是如此。我希望这里有猎虎活动！我们可能会在晚饭前去杀掉一些。 （这是一个好女孩！多么漂亮的脚踝，呃，乔斯？）告诉我们那个关于猎虎的故事，以及你在丛林中为他所做的事情 - 这是一个精彩的故事，克劳利。“这里乔治·奥斯本给出了打哈欠。 “这里的工作相当缓慢，”他说，“在这里；我们该怎么办？

‘Shall we go and look at some horses that Snaffler’s just brought from Lewes fair?’ Crawley said.
“我们要不要去看看斯纳弗勒刚刚从刘易斯集市带来的一些马？”克劳利说道。

‘Suppose we go and have some jellies at Dutton’s,’ and the rogue Jos, willing to kill two birds with one stone. ‘Devilish fine gal at Dutton’s.’
“假设我们去达顿家吃点果冻”，而无赖乔斯则愿意一石二鸟。 “达顿家的恶魔般的好女孩。”

‘Suppose we go and see the Lightning come in, it’s just about time?’ George said. This advice prevailing over the stables and the jelly, they turned towards the coach-office to witness the Lightning’s arrival.
“如果我们去看闪电队进来，现在正是时候吗？”乔治说。这个建议战胜了马厩和果冻，他们转向教练办公室，见证闪电号的到来。

As they passed, they met the carriage—Jos Sedley’s open carriage, with its magnificent armorial bearings—that splendid conveyance in which he used to drive, about at Cheltonham, majestic and solitary, with his arms folded, and his hat cocked; or, more happy, with ladies by his side.
当他们经过时，他们遇见了那辆马车——乔斯·塞德利的敞篷马车，带有华丽的徽章——他过去常常驾驶这辆华丽的交通工具，在切尔尔顿纳姆附近行驶，威严而孤独，双臂交叉，帽子翘起。或者，更幸福的是，有女士在他身边。

Two were in the carriage now: one a little person, with light hair, and dressed in the height of the fashion; the other in a brown silk pelisse, and a straw bonnet with pink ribbons, with a rosy, round, happy face, that did you good to behold. She checked the carriage as it neared the three gentlemen, after which exercise of authority she looked rather nervous, and then began to blush most absurdly. ‘We have had a delightful drive, George,’ she said, ‘and—and we’re so glad to come back; and, Joseph, don’t let him be late.’
马车里现在有两个人：一个是个子矮小的人，浅色头发，穿着最流行的衣服；另一个是一个身材矮小的人，浅色头发，穿着最流行的衣服；另一个是一个身材矮小的人，浅色头发，穿着最流行的衣服。另一个则身穿棕色丝质外衣，头戴一顶饰有粉红色丝带的草帽，脸上红润、圆润、幸福，令人赏心悦目。当马车接近三位先生时，她检查了一下，行使权力后她看起来相当紧张，然后开始荒谬地脸红。 “乔治，我们的旅途很愉快，”她说，“而且——我们很高兴能回来；还有，约瑟夫，别让他迟到。”

‘Don’t be leading our husbands into mischief, Mr. Sedley, you wicked, wicked man you,’ Rebecca said, shaking at Jos a pretty little finger covered with the neatest French kid glove. ‘No billiards, no smoking, no naughtiness!’
“别让我们的丈夫们胡闹，塞德利先生，你这个邪恶的、邪恶的男人，”丽贝卡对乔斯摇晃着一只戴着最精致的法国小羊皮手套的漂亮小手指。 “禁止打台球、禁止吸烟、禁止调皮！”

‘My dear Mrs. Crawley—Ah now! upon my honour!’ was all Jos could ejaculate by way of reply; but he managed to fall into a tolerable attitude, with his head lying on his shoulder, grinning upwards at his victim, with one hand at his back, which he supported on his cane, and the other hand (the one with the diamond ring) fumbling in his shirt-frill and among his under-waistcoats. As the carriage drove off he kissed the diamond hand to the fair ladies within. He wished all Cheltenham, all Chowringhee, all Calcutta, could see him in that position, waving his hand to such a beauty, and in company with such a famous buck as Rawdon Crawley of the Guards.
“我亲爱的克劳利夫人——啊现在！以我的名誉担保！”这是乔斯所能回答的全部内容。但他设法摆出一种可以忍受的态度，头靠在他的肩膀上，向上对着受害者微笑，一只手放在背后，用拐杖支撑，另一只手（戴着钻戒的那只手）在衬衣褶边和背心里摸索。当马车驶离时，他向车内美丽的女士们亲吻了那只钻石手。他希望整个切尔滕纳姆、所有乔林吉、所有加尔各答都能看到他的样子，向这样一位美女挥手，并与近卫军的罗登·克劳利这样的著名雄鹿在一起。

Our young bride and bridegroom had chosen Brighton as the place where they would pass the first few days after their marriage; and having engaged apartments at the Ship Inn, enjoyed themselves there in great comfort and quietude, until Jos presently joined them. Nor was he the only companion they found there. As they were coming into the hotel from a sea-side walk one afternoon, on whom should they light but Rebecca and her husband. The recognition was immediate. Rebecca flew into the arms of her dearest friend. Crawley and Osborne shook hands together cordially enough: and Becky, in the course of a very few hours, found means to make the latter forget that little unpleasant passage of words which had happened between them. ‘Do you remember the last time we met at Miss Crawley’s, when I was so rude to you, dear Captain Osborne? I thought you seemed careless about dear Amelia. It was that made me angry: and so pert: and so unkind: and so ungrateful. Do forgive me!’ Rebecca said, and she held out her hand with so frank and winning a grace, that Osborne could not but take it. By humbly and frankly acknowledging yourself to be in the wrong, there is no knowing, my son, what good you may do. I knew once a gentleman and very worthy practitioner in Vanity Fair, who used to do little wrongs to his neighbours on purpose, and in order to apologise for them in an open and manly way afterwards—and what ensued? My friend Crocky Doyle was liked everywhere, and deemed to be rather impetuous—but the honestest fellow. Becky’s humility passed for sincerity with George Osborne.
我们年轻的新娘和新郎选择布莱顿作为他们结婚后头几天的居住地；在船旅馆订了公寓，在那里享受着极大的舒适和安静，直到乔斯不久加入了他们。他也不是他们在那里找到的唯一同伴。一天下午，当他们从海边散步进入旅馆时，除了丽贝卡和她的丈夫之外，他们还应该瞄准谁呢？立刻就得到了认可。丽贝卡飞进了她最亲爱的朋友的怀抱。克劳利和奥斯本亲切地握手了。贝基在几个小时内找到了让奥斯本忘记他们之间发生的那段不愉快的谈话的方法。 “你还记得我们上次在克劳利小姐家见面吗，当时我对你很粗鲁，亲爱的奥斯本船长？我觉得你似乎对亲爱的阿米莉亚漠不关心。正是这一点让我生气：又如此傲慢；又如此不友善；又如此忘恩负义。请原谅我！”丽贝卡说道，她伸出的手是如此坦率，赢得了优雅，奥斯本不得不握住它。我的孩子，通过谦卑而坦率地承认自己的错误，你不知道自己能做些什么好事。我曾经认识一位绅士，也是《名利场》中非常值得尊敬的从业者，他曾经故意对邻居做一些小错事，事后还公开地、有男子气概地为他们道歉——后来发生了什么？我的朋友克罗基·道尔到处都受到人们的喜爱，他被认为相当鲁莽——但却是最诚实的人。贝基的谦逊被乔治·奥斯本视为真诚。

These two young couples had plenty of tales to relate to each other. The marriages of either were discussed; and their prospects in life canvassed with the greatest frankness and interest on both sides. George’s marriage was to be made known to his father by his friend Captain Dobbin; and young Osborne trembled rather for the result of that communication. Miss Crawley, on whom all Rawdon’s hopes depended, still held out. Unable to make an entry into her house in Park Lane, her affectionate nephew and niece had followed her to Brighton, where they had emissaries continually planted at her door.
这两对年轻夫妇有很多故事可以相互联系。双方都讨论了婚姻问题。双方都以最大的坦诚和兴趣探讨了他们的生活前景。乔治的婚姻是由他的朋友多宾船长告知他父亲的。年轻的奥斯本为这次交流的结果感到相当颤抖。罗登的全部希望都寄托在克劳利小姐身上，但她仍然坚持不懈。由于无法进入她位于帕克巷的房子，她深情的侄子和侄女跟着她来到了布莱顿，在那里他们不断派使者在她家门口。

‘I wish you could see some of Rawdon’s friends who are always about our door,’ Rebecca said, laughing. ‘Did you ever see a dun, my dear; or a bailiff and his man? Two of the abominable wretches watched all last week at the greengrocer’s opposite, and we could not get away until Sunday. If Aunty does not relent, what shall we do?’
“我希望你能看到罗登的一些朋友，他们总是在我们家门口，”丽贝卡笑着说。 “亲爱的，你见过矮墩吗？还是法警和他的手下？上周，两个可恶的家伙一直在蔬菜水果店对面守着，直到周日我们才得以离开。如果阿姨不松口，我们怎么办？

Rawdon, with roars of laughter, related a dozen amusing anecdotes of his duns, and Rebecca’s adroit treatment of them. He vowed with a great oath that there was no woman in Europe who could talk a creditor over as she could. Almost immediately after their marriage, her practice had begun, and her husband found the immense value of such a wife. They had credit in plenty, but they had bills also in abundance, and laboured under a scarcity of ready money. Did these debt-difficulties affect Rawdon’s good spirits? No. Everybody in Vanity Fair must have remarked how well those live who are comfortably and thoroughly in debt: how they deny themselves nothing; how jolly and easy they are in their minds. Rawdon and his wife had the very best apartments at the inn at Brighton; the landlord, as he brought in the first dish, bowed before them as to his greatest customers: and Rawdon abused the dinners and wine with an audacity which no grandee in the land could surpass. Long custom, a manly appearance, faultless boots and clothes, and a happy fierceness of manner, will often help a man as much as a great balance at the banker’s.
罗登哈哈大笑，讲述了他的十几个催债趣闻，以及丽贝卡对它们的巧妙处理。他发誓说，欧洲没有哪个女人比她更能说服债权人。几乎在他们结婚后不久，她就开始执业，她的丈夫发现了这样一个妻子的巨大价值。他们拥有充足的信贷，但他们的账单也很多，并且在缺乏现钱的情况下工作。这些债务困难是否影响了罗登的良好精神状态？不。《名利场》里的每个人一定都曾说过，那些安逸而负债累累的人生活得多么好：他们如何不克制自己；他们如何不顾自己的生活；他们如何不顾自己的生活。他们心里是多么快乐和轻松啊。罗登和他的妻子在布莱顿的旅馆里拥有最好的公寓。店主端上第一道菜时，向他们鞠躬，就像向他最重要的顾客一样。罗登滥用晚餐和葡萄酒，其大胆程度是这片土地上任何显赫人物都无法比拟的。长长的习惯、有男子气概的外表、完美的靴子和衣服，以及愉快而凶猛的举止，通常会帮助一个男人在银行家保持良好的平衡。

The two wedding parties met constantly in each other’s apartments. After two or three nights the gentlemen of an evening had a little piquet, as their wives sate and chatted apart. This pastime, and the arrival of Jos Sedley, who made his appearance in his grand open carriage, and who played a few games at billiards with Captain Crawley, replenished Rawdon’s purse somewhat, and gave him the benefit of that ready money for which the greatest spirits are sometimes at a stand-still.
两人的婚礼经常在对方的公寓里见面。两三个晚上之后，当晚的绅士们有点生气，因为他们的妻子坐在一起聊天。这次消遣，以及乔斯·塞德利的到来，他乘坐他那辆豪华的敞篷马车出现，并与克劳利船长一起打了几场台球，这在一定程度上充实了罗登的钱包，并让他受益于最伟大的人所需要的现钱。精神有时会停滞不前。

So the three gentlemen walked down to see the Lightning coach come in. Punctual to the minute, the coach crowded inside and out, the guard blowing his accustomed tune on the horn—the Lightning came tearing down the street, and pulled up at the coach-office.
于是，三位绅士走下去看闪电客车进来。客车里里外外都挤得水泄不通，守卫按着喇叭吹着他惯用的曲子——闪电客车沿着街道疾驰而过，停在了客车前面。 -办公室。

‘Hullo! there’s old Dobbin,’ George cried, quite delighted to see his old friend perched on the roof; and whose promised visit to Brighton had been delayed until now. ‘How are you, old fellow? Glad you’re come down. Emmy’ll be delighted to see you,’ Osborne said, shaking his comrade warmly by the hand as soon as his descent from the vehicle was effected—and then he added, in a lower and agitated voice, ‘What’s the news? Have you been in Russell Square? What does the governor say? Tell me everything.’
‘哈喽！ “老多宾来了，”乔治喊道，很高兴看到他的老朋友坐在屋顶上。他原定的对布莱顿的访问被推迟到现在。 ‘你好吗，老伙计？很高兴你下来了。艾美会很高兴见到你，”奥斯本一从车上下来，就热情地握着他的战友的手，然后他用低沉而激动的声音补充道，“有什么消息吗？你去过罗素广场吗？州长怎么说？告诉我一切。'

Dobbin looked very pale and grave. ‘I’ve seen your father,’ said he. ‘How’s Amelia—Mrs. George? I’ll tell you all the news presently: but I’ve brought the great news of all: and that is—‘
多宾看上去脸色苍白，表情严肃。 “我见过你父亲，”他说。 “阿米莉亚——夫人怎么样？”乔治？我很快就会告诉你所有的消息：但我带来了最棒的消息：那就是——”

‘Out with it, old fellow,’ George said.
“别说了，老伙计，”乔治说。

‘We’re ordered to Belgium. All the army goes—guards and all. Heavytop’s got the gout, and is mad at not being able to move. O’Dowd goes in command, and we embark from Chatham next week.’ This news of war could not but come with a shock upon our lovers, and caused all these gentlemen to look very serious.
“我们奉命前往比利时。所有军队都出发了——卫兵和所有的人。海维托普得了痛风，对无法动弹感到非常生气。奥多德接任指挥，下周我们从查塔姆出发。”这个战争消息不禁让我们的恋人感到震惊，让所有这些先生们都显得非常严肃。

Chapter XXIII
第二十三章


Captain Dobbin Proceeds on His Canvass
多宾船长继续他的游说

What is the secret mesmerism which friendship possesses, and under the operation of which a person ordinarily sluggish, or cold, or timid, becomes wise, active, and resolute, in another’s behalf? As Alexis, after a few passes from Dr. Elliotson, despises pain, reads with the back of his head, sees miles off, looks into next week, and performs other wonders, of which, in his own private normal condition, he is quite incapable; so you see, in the affairs of the world and under the magnetism of friendships, the modest man becomes bold, the shy confident, the lazy active, or the impetuous prudent and peaceful. What is it, on the other hand, that makes the lawyer eschew his own cause, and call in his learned brother as an adviser? And what causes the doctor, when ailing, to send for his rival, and not sit down and examine his own tongue in the chimney Bass, or write his own prescription at his study-table? I throw out these queries for intelligent readers to answer, who know, at once, how credulous we are, and how sceptical, how soft and how obstinate, how firm for others and how diffident about ourselves: meanwhile, it is certain that our friend William Dobbin, who was personally of so complying a disposition that if his parents had pressed him much, it is probable he would have stepped down into the kitchen and married the cook, and who, to further his own interests, would have found the most insuperable difficulty in walking across the street, found himself as busy and eager in the conduct of George Osborne’s affairs, as the most selfish tactician could be in the pursuit of his own.
友谊所具有的秘密催眠力是什么，在它的作用下，一个平时迟钝、冷漠、胆怯的人会为了他人而变得明智、积极和坚决？亚历克西斯在经历了埃利奥森医生的几次传球后，蔑视痛苦，用后脑勺读书，看得很远，展望下周，并创造了其他奇迹，其中，在他自己的正常情况下，他相当无法;所以你看，在世事中，在友谊的磁力下，谦虚的人变得勇敢，害羞的人变得自信，懒惰的人变得活跃，浮躁的人变得谨慎而平和。另一方面，是什么让律师放弃自己的事业，而请来他博学的兄弟作为顾问？是什么导致医生在生病时派人去请他的对手，而不是坐下来在烟囱里检查自己的舌头，或者在他的学习桌上写下自己的处方呢？我把这些问题抛给聪明的读者来回答，他们立刻就知道我们是多么轻信，是多么怀疑，是多么软弱和固执，对别人是多么坚定，对自己是多么自信：同时，可以肯定的是，我们的朋友威廉·多宾（William Dobbin）个人性格非常顺从，如果他的父母给他施加很大的压力，他很可能会走进厨房并与厨师结婚，并且为了进一步发展自己的利益，他会找到最穿过街道时遇到了难以克服的困难，他发现自己忙于处理乔治·奥斯本的事务，就像最自私的战术家追求自己的事务一样。

Whilst our friend George and his young wife were enjoying the first blushing days of the honeymoon at Brighton, honest William was left as George’s plenipotentiary in London, to transact all the business part of the marriage. His duty it was to call upon old Sedley and his wife, and to keep the former in good humour: to draw Jos and his brother-in-law nearer together, so that Jos’s position and dignity, as collector of Boggley Wollah, might compensate for his father’s loss of station, and tend to reconcile old Osborne to the alliance: and finally, to communicate it to the latter in such a way as should least irritate the old gentleman.
当我们的朋友乔治和他年轻的妻子在布莱顿享受蜜月的最初几天时，诚实的威廉被留下作为乔治在伦敦的全权代表，负责处理婚姻的所有事务。他的职责是拜访老塞德利和他的妻子，并让前者保持愉快的心情：拉近乔斯和他姐夫的距离，这样乔斯作为博格利沃拉收藏家的地位和尊严就可以得到补偿。他父亲失去了地位，并倾向于使老奥斯本与联盟和解：最后，以最不激怒老绅士的方式将其传达给后者。

Now, before he faced the head of the Osborne house with the news which it was his duty to tell, Dobbin bethought him that it would be politic to make friends of the rest of the family, and, if possible, have the ladies on his side. They can’t be angry in their hearts, thought he. No woman ever was really angry at a romantic marriage. A little crying out, and they must come round to their brother; when the three of us will lay siege to old Mr. Osborne. So this Machiavellian captain of infantry cast about him for some happy means or stratagem by which he could gently and gradually bring the Misses Osborne to a knowledge of their brother’s secret.
现在，在他向奥斯本家族的首领说出他有责任告知的消息之前，多宾认为与家族的其他成员交朋友是明智的做法，并且如果可能的话，让女士们在他的身边。边。他们心里不能生气，他想。没有哪个女人会对浪漫的婚姻真正感到愤怒。稍微哭一下，他们就必须回到他们的兄弟身边；当我们三个人围攻老奥斯本先生时。因此，这位马基雅维利式的步兵上尉为他寻找了一些快乐的方法或策略，通过这些方法，他可以温和地、逐渐地让奥斯本小姐知道他们兄弟的秘密。

By a little inquiry regarding his mother’s engagements, he was pretty soon able to find out by whom of her ladyship’s friends parties were given at that season; where he would be likely to meet Osborne’s sisters; and, though he had that abhorrence of routs and evening parties which many sensible men, alas! entertain, he soon found one where the Misses Osborne were to be present. Making his appearance at the ball, where he danced a couple of sets with both of them, and was prodigiously polite, he actually had the courage to ask Miss Osborne for a few minutes’ conversation at an early hour the next day, when he had, he said, to communicate to her news of the very greatest interest.
通过稍微询问一下他母亲的订婚情况，他很快就能查出那位女士的朋友们在那个季节举办的聚会是由谁举办的。他很可能会在那里见到奥斯本的姐妹们；尽管他像许多明智的人一样厌恶狂欢和晚会，但唉！为了招待客人，他很快就找到了奥斯本小姐所在的地方。他出现在舞会上，与两人一起跳了几组舞，而且非常有礼貌，第二天一早，他实际上有勇气邀请奥斯本小姐进行几分钟的交谈，当时他他说，要传达给她最感兴趣的消息。

What was it that made her start back, and gaze upon him for a moment, and then on the ground at her feet, and make as if she would faint on his arm, had he not by opportunely treading on her toes, brought the young lady back to self-control? Why was she so violently agitated at Dobbin’s request? This can never be known. But when he came the next day, Maria was not in the drawing-room with her sister, and Miss Wirt went off for the purpose of fetching the latter, and the Captain and Miss Osborne were left together. They were both so silent that the ticktock of the Sacrifice of Iphigenia clock on the mantelpiece became quite rudely audible.
是什么让她猛地向后退了一步，凝视了他一会儿，然后又看了看她脚下的地面，如果不是他适时地踩到了她的脚趾，把孩子带到了她脚下，她就好像要晕倒在他的手臂上一样。女士恢复自制力了吗？为什么她在多宾的要求下如此激动？这永远无法得知。但第二天他来的时候，玛丽亚和她妹妹不在客厅里，沃特小姐去接妹妹了，船长和奥斯本小姐就留在了一起。他们俩都很安静，壁炉架上的伊菲革涅亚献祭钟的滴答声变得粗鲁得听得见。

‘What a nice party it was last night,’ Miss Osborne at length began, encouragingly; ‘and—and how you’re improved in your dancing, Captain Dobbin. Surely somebody has taught you,’ she added, with amiable archness.
“昨晚的聚会真是太棒了，”奥斯本小姐终于开始鼓励地说。 “还有——以及你的舞蹈是如何进步的，多宾船长。肯定有人教过你。”她带着和蔼可亲的调皮补充道。

‘You should see me dance a reel with Mrs. Major O’Dowd of ours; and a jig—did you ever see a jig? But I think anybody could dance with you, Miss Osborne, who dance so well.’
“你应该看看我和我们的奥多德少校夫人一起跳舞；还有一个夹具——你见过夹具吗？但我认为任何人都可以和你一起跳舞，奥斯本小姐，你跳得很好。”

‘Is the Major’s lady young and beautiful, Captain?’ the fair questioner continued. ‘Ah, what a terrible thing it must be to be a soldier’s wife! I wonder they have any spirits to dance, and in these dreadful times of war, too! O Captain Dobbin, I tremble sometimes when I think of our dearest George, and the dangers of the poor soldier. Are there many married officers of the —th, Captain Dobbin?’
“少校的女士年轻漂亮吗，船长？”公平的提问者继续说道。 ‘啊，当一名士兵的妻子该是一件多么可怕的事情啊！我想知道他们还有精神跳舞，在这可怕的战争时期也是如此！哦，多宾上尉，当我想到我们最亲爱的乔治和可怜的士兵的危险时，我有时会颤抖。多宾上尉，第—th有很多已婚军官吗？

‘Upon my word, she’s playing her hand rather too openly,’ Miss Wirt thought; but this observation is merely parenthetic, and was not heard through the crevice of the door at which the governess uttered it.
“据我所知，她玩得太公开了，”沃特小姐想。但这只是插入语，家庭女教师在门缝里并没有听到这句话。

‘One of our young men is just married,’ Dobbin said, now coming to the point. ‘It was a very old attachment, and the young couple are as poor as church mice.’ ‘O, how delightful! O, how romantic!’ Miss Osborne cried, as the Captain said ‘old attachment’ and ‘poor.’ Her sympathy encouraged him.
“我们的一个年轻人刚刚结婚，”多宾说道，现在进入正题。 “这是一种非常古老的依恋，而这对年轻夫妇就像教堂里的老鼠一样贫穷。”“哦，多么令人愉快！哦，多么浪漫啊！”奥斯本小姐喊道，船长说“老旧的依恋”和“可怜的”。她的同情鼓励了他。

‘The finest young fellow in the regiment,’ he continued. ‘Not a braver or handsomer officer in the army; and such a charming wife! How you would like her! how you will like her when you know her, Miss Osborne.’ The young lady thought the actual moment had arrived, and that Dobbin’s nervousness which now came on and was visible in many twitchings of his face, in his manner of beating the ground with his great feet, in the rapid buttoning and unbuttoning of his frock-coat, &c.—Miss Osborne, I say, thought that when he had given himself a little air, he would unbosom himself entirely, and prepared eagerly to listen. And the clock, in the altar on which Iphigenia was situated, beginning, after a preparatory convulsion, to toll twelve, the mere tolling seemed as if it would last until one—so prolonged was the knell to the anxious spinster.
“团里最优秀的年轻人，”他继续说道。 “没有比军队中更勇敢或更英俊的军官；还有这么迷人的妻子！你多么想要她啊！奥斯本小姐，当你认识她时，你会多么喜欢她。”这位年轻女士认为真正的时刻已经到来，而多宾的紧张情绪现在出现了，从他脸上的许多抽搐中可以看出，从他用力敲打地面的方式中可以看出。他那双大脚，快速地扣上又解开礼服的扣子，等等——我说，奥斯本小姐认为，当他给自己一点空气时，他就会完全敞开胸怀，并准备热切地倾听。伊菲革涅亚所在的祭坛上的钟，在一阵预备性的震动之后，开始敲响十二点，仅仅敲响似乎就会持续到一点——对于焦虑的老处女来说，丧钟是如此漫长。

‘But it’s not about marriage that I came to speak—that is that marriage—that is—no, I mean—my dear Miss Osborne, it’s about our dear friend George,’ Dobbin said.
“但我不是来谈论婚姻的——那就是婚姻——那是——不，我的意思是——我亲爱的奥斯本小姐，这是关于我们亲爱的朋友乔治的，”多宾说。

‘About George?’ she said in a tone so discomfited that Maria and Miss Wirt laughed at the other side of the door, and even that abandoned wretch of a Dobbin felt inclined to smile himself; for he was not altogether unconscious of the state of affairs: George having often bantered him gracefully and said, ‘Hang it, Will, why don’t you take old Jane? She’ll have you if you ask her. I’ll bet you five to two she will.’
“关于乔治？”她的语气如此尴尬，以至于玛丽亚和沃特小姐在门的另一边笑了起来，甚至连那个被遗弃的多宾人也感到自己想微笑；因为他并非完全没有意识到事态的发展：乔治经常优雅地取笑他说：“别管了，威尔，你为什么不带上老简呢？”如果你问她，她就会接受你。我跟你打赌五比二，她会的。

‘Yes, about George, then,’ he continued. ‘There has been a difference between him and Mr. Osborne. And I regard him so much— for you know we have been like brothers—that I hope and pray the quarrel may be settled. We must go abroad, Miss Osborne. We may be ordered off at a day’s warning. Who knows what may happen in the campaign? Don’t be agitated, dear Miss Osborne; and those two at least should part friends.’
“是的，那么，关于乔治，”他继续说道。 “他和奥斯本先生之间存在差异。我非常尊重他——因为你知道我们一直像兄弟一样——所以我希望并祈祷争吵能够得到解决。我们必须出国，奥斯本小姐。我们可能会在一天的警告后被勒令离开。谁知道竞选中会发生什么？别激动，亲爱的奥斯本小姐；这两个人至少应该分开朋友。

‘There has been no quarrel, Captain Dobbin, except a little usual scene with Papa,’ the lady said. ‘We are expecting George back daily. What Papa wanted was only for his good. He has but to come back, and I’m sure all will be well; and dear Rhoda, who went away from here in sad sad anger, I know will forgive him. Woman forgives but too readily, Captain.’
“没有发生任何争吵，多宾船长，除了和爸爸的一些平常的场景之外，”那位女士说。 “我们每天都期待乔治回来。爸爸想要的只是为了他好。他还得回来，我相信一切都会好起来的；亲爱的罗达，他怀着悲伤、悲伤的愤怒离开了这里，我知道他会原谅他。女人很容易原谅，但太容易了，船长。”

‘Such an angel as YOU I am sure would,’ Mr. Dobbin said, with atrocious astuteness. ‘And no man can pardon himself for giving a woman pain. What would you feel, if a man were faithless to you?’
“我相信像你这样的天使，”多宾先生极其机敏地说。 “没有一个男人能够原谅自己给女人带来的痛苦。如果一个男人对你不忠，你会有什么感觉？

‘I should perish—I should throw myself out of window—I should take poison—I should pine and die. I know I should,’ Miss cried, who had nevertheless gone through one or two affairs of the heart without any idea of suicide.
“我应该死——我应该跳出窗外——我应该服毒——我应该憔悴而死。” “我知道我应该这么做。”小姐喊道，尽管如此，她也经历过一两次心灵的创伤，却没有自杀的念头。

‘And there are others,’ Dobbin continued, ‘as true and as kindhearted as yourself. I’m not speaking about the West Indian heiress, Miss Osborne, but about a poor girl whom George once loved, and who was bred from her childhood to think of nobody but him. I’ve seen her in her poverty uncomplaining, broken-hearted, without a fault. It is of Miss Sedley I speak. Dear Miss Osborne, can your generous heart quarrel with your brother for being faithful to her? Could his own conscience ever forgive him if he deserted her? Be her friend—she always loved you—and—and I am come here charged by George to tell you that he holds his engagement to her as the most sacred duty he has; and to entreat you, at least, to be on his side.’
“还有其他人，”多宾继续说道，“和你一样真诚、善良。”我不是在谈论西印度群岛的女继承人奥斯本小姐，而是在谈论乔治曾经爱过的一个可怜的女孩，她从小就被教育着除了他以外没有人。我见过她在贫穷中毫无怨言，心碎，没有任何过错。我说的是塞德利小姐。亲爱的奥斯本小姐，你宽厚的心会因为你的兄弟对她忠诚而争吵吗？如果他抛弃了她，他的良心还能原谅他吗？做她的朋友——她一直爱你——而且——我受乔治的委托来这里告诉你，他将与她的订婚视为他最神圣的职责；并恳求你至少站在他一边。

When any strong emotion took possession of Mr. Dobbin, and after the first word or two of hesitation, he could speak with perfect fluency, and it was evident that his eloquence on this occasion made some impression upon the lady whom he addressed.
当多宾先生有任何强烈的情绪时，在犹豫了一两个字之后，他就能非常流利地说话，很明显，他这次的口才给他所讲话的女士留下了一些印象。

‘Well,’ said she, ‘this is—most surprising—most painful—most extraordinary—what will Papa say?—that George should fling away such a superb establishment as was offered to him but at any rate he has found a very brave champion in you, Captain Dobbin. It is of no use, however,’ she continued, after a pause; ‘I feel for poor Miss Sedley, most certainly—most sincerely, you know. We never thought the match a good one, though we were always very kind to her here— very. But Papa will never consent, I am sure. And a well brought up young woman, you know—with a well-regulated mind, must—George must give her up, dear Captain Dobbin, indeed he must.’
“好吧，”她说，“这是——最令人惊讶的——最痛苦的——最非同寻常的——爸爸会怎么说呢？——乔治竟然扔掉了提供给他的如此一流的设施，但无论如何，他找到了一个非常勇敢的人。多宾船长，你就是冠军。然而，这没有用，”她停顿了一下，继续说道。 “我很同情可怜的塞德利小姐，当然——最真诚的，你知道。我们从来不认为这场比赛是一场好的比赛，尽管我们在这里总是对她很好——非常。但我确信爸爸永远不会同意。一个受过良好教育的年轻女子，你知道——有着良好的头脑，必须——乔治必须放弃她，亲爱的多宾船长，确实他必须。

‘Ought a man to give up the woman he loved, just when misfortune befell her?’ Dobbin said, holding out his hand. ‘Dear Miss Osborne, is this the counsel I hear from you? My dear young lady! you must befriend her. He can’t give her up. He must not give her up. Would a man, think you, give YOU up if you were poor?’
“当不幸降临到他所爱的女人身上时，一个男人应该放弃她吗？”多宾伸出手说道。 “亲爱的奥斯本小姐，这就是我从你那里听到的忠告吗？我亲爱的小姐！你必须和她交朋友。他不能放弃她。他一定不能放弃她。你想，如果你很穷，一个男人会放弃你吗？

This adroit question touched the heart of Miss Jane Osborne not a little. ‘I don’t know whether we poor girls ought to believe what you men say, Captain,’ she said. ‘There is that in woman’s tenderness which induces her to believe too easily. I’m afraid you are cruel, cruel deceivers,’—and Dobbin certainly thought he felt a pressure of the hand which Miss Osborne had extended to him.
这个巧妙的问题，让简·奥斯本小姐的心不由得感动起来。 “我不知道我们这些可怜的女孩是否应该相信你们男人说的话，船长，”她说。 “女人的温柔使她太容易相信。我担心你们是残酷的、残酷的骗子。”——多宾当然认为他感受到了奥斯本小姐向他伸出的手的压力。

He dropped it in some alarm. ‘Deceivers!’ said he. ‘No, dear Miss Osborne, all men are not; your brother is not; George has loved Amelia Sedley ever since they were children; no wealth would make him marry any but her. Ought he to forsake her? Would you counsel him to do so?’
他惊慌失措地把它扔掉了。 “骗子！”他说。 “不，亲爱的奥斯本小姐，并非所有人都如此；你的兄弟不是；乔治从小就喜欢阿米莉亚·塞德利。除了她之外，没有任何财富能让他娶任何人。他该抛弃她吗？你会建议他这样做吗？

What could Miss Jane say to such a question, and with her own peculiar views? She could not answer it, so she parried it by saying, ‘Well, if you are not a deceiver, at least you are very romantic”; and Captain William let this observation pass without challenge.
对于这样的问题，简小姐能以她自己独特的观点说什么呢？她无法回答，就回避说：“好吧，如果你不是骗子，至少你很浪漫”；威廉船长毫无异议地接受了这一观察。

At length when, by the help of farther polite speeches, he deemed that Miss Osborne was sufficiently prepared to receive the whole news, he poured it into her ear. ‘George could not give up Amelia— George was married to her’—and then he related the circumstances of the marriage as we know them already: how the poor girl would have died had not her lover kept his faith: how Old Sedley had refused all consent to the match, and a licence had been got: and Jos Sedley had come from Cheltenham to give away the bride: how they had gone to Brighton in Jos’s chariot-and-four to pass the honeymoon: and how George counted on his dear kind sisters to befriend him with their father, as women—so true and tender as they were—assuredly would do. And so, asking permission (readily granted) to see her again, and rightly conjecturing that the news he had brought would be told in the next five minutes to the other ladies, Captain Dobbin made his bow and took his leave.
最后，在进一步礼貌的演讲的帮助下，他认为奥斯本小姐已经做好了充分的准备来接受整个消息，他把消息倒进了她的耳朵里。 “乔治无法放弃阿米莉亚——乔治已经和她结婚了”——然后他讲述了我们已经知道的婚姻情况：如果她的情人没有坚持他的信仰，这个可怜的女孩将会如何死去：老塞德利如何拒绝所有人都同意这桩婚事，并获得了许可：乔斯·塞德利从切尔滕纳姆赶来送新娘：他们如何乘坐乔斯的四人战车前往布莱顿度蜜月：以及乔治如何指望他的亲爱的善良的姐妹们，让他和她们的父亲成为朋友，作为女人——尽管她们如此真诚和温柔——肯定会这么做。于是，多宾船长请求再次见到她（欣然同意），并正确地推测他带来的消息将在接下来的五分钟内告诉其他女士，多宾船长鞠躬离开。

He was scarcely out of the house, when Miss Maria and Miss Wirt rushed in to Miss Osborne, and the whole wonderful secret was imparted to them by that lady. To do them justice, neither of the sisters was very much displeased. There is something about a runaway match with which few ladies can be seriously angry, and Amelia rather rose in their estimation, from the spirit which she had displayed in consenting to the union. As they debated the story, and prattled about it, and wondered what Papa would do and say, came a loud knock, as of an avenging thunder-clap, at the door, which made these conspirators start. It must be Papa, they thought. But it was not he. It was only Mr. Frederick Bullock, who had come from the City according to appointment, to conduct the ladies to a flower-show.
他刚走出家门，玛丽亚小姐和沃特小姐就冲到奥斯本小姐身边，那位女士把整个奇妙的秘密告诉了她们。公平地说，姐妹俩都没有很不高兴。对于这场失控的婚姻，很少有女士会真正生气，而阿米莉亚在同意结合时所表现出的精神，使他们对她的评价相当高。当他们争论这个故事，喋喋不休地谈论它，想知道爸爸会做什么和说什么时，门口传来一声响亮的敲门声，就像复仇的雷声一样，这让这些阴谋家们惊慌失措。他们想，一定是爸爸。但那不是他。只有按约从城里赶来的弗雷德里克·布洛克先生带领女士们去看花展。

This gentleman, as may be imagined, was not kept long in ignorance of the secret. But his face, when he heard it, showed an amazement which was very different to that look of sentimental wonder which the countenances of the sisters wore. Mr. Bullock was a man of the world, and a junior partner of a wealthy firm. He knew what money was, and the value of it: and a delightful throb of expectation lighted up his little eyes, and caused him to smile on his Maria, as he thought that by this piece of folly of Mr. George’s she might be worth thirty thousand pounds more than he had ever hoped to get with her.
可以想象，这位先生对这个秘密的无知并没有持续太久。但当他听到这句话时，他的脸上露出了惊讶的表情，这与姐妹们脸上的感伤惊奇的表情截然不同。布洛克先生是一位见多识广的人，也是一家富有公司的初级合伙人。他知道钱是什么，也知道它的价值：一种令人愉快的期待的悸动照亮了他的小眼睛，使他对他的玛丽亚微笑，因为他认为乔治先生的这一愚蠢行为可能会让她值得。比他原本希望从她那里得到的多了三万英镑。

‘Gad! Jane,’ said he, surveying even the elder sister with some interest, ‘Eels will be sorry he cried off. You may be a fifty thousand pounder yet.’
‘嘎德！简，”他饶有兴趣地打量着姐姐，说道，“鳗鱼们会为他哭了而感到遗憾。你可能还有五万磅重。

The sisters had never thought of the money question up to that moment, but Fred Bullock bantered them with graceful gaiety about it during their forenoon’s excursion; and they had risen not a little in their own esteem by the time when, the morning amusement over, they drove back to dinner. And do not let my respected reader exclaim against this selfishness as unnatural. It was but this present morning, as he rode on the omnibus from Richmond; while it changed horses, this present chronicler, being on the roof, marked three little children playing in a puddle below, very dirty, and friendly, and happy. To these three presently came another little one. ‘POLLY,’ says she, ‘YOUR SISTER’S GOT A PENNY.’ At which the children got up from the puddle instantly, and ran off to pay their court to Peggy. And as the omnibus drove off I saw Peggy with the infantine procession at her tail, marching with great dignity towards the stall of a neighbouring lollipop-woman.
在那一刻之前，姐妹俩从未考虑过金钱问题，但弗雷德·布洛克在上午的旅行中以优雅而快乐的方式与她们开玩笑。当早上的娱乐结束后，他们开车回去吃晚饭时，他们的自尊心已经提高了不少。请不要让我尊敬的读者大声疾呼这种自私行为是不自然的。就在今天早上，当他乘坐公共汽车从里士满出发时。当它换马时，这位在场的编年史家在屋顶上，注意到三个小孩在下面的水坑里玩耍，非常肮脏，但友好而快乐。不久，这三个人又来了一个小家伙。 “波莉，”她说，“你姐姐有一便士。”孩子们立刻从水坑里站起来，跑去向佩吉求情。当公共汽车开走时，我看到佩吉带着婴儿般的队伍尾随其后，带着极大的尊严向邻近的一个棒棒糖女人的摊位行进。

Chapter XXIV
第二十四章


In Which Mr. Osborne Takes Down the Family Bible
奥斯本先生取下家庭圣经

So having prepared the sisters, Dobbin hastened away to the City to perform the rest and more difficult part of the task which he had undertaken. The idea of facing old Osborne rendered him not a little nervous, and more than once he thought of leaving the young ladies to communicate the secret, which, as he was aware, they could not long retain. But he had promised to report to George upon the manner in which the elder Osborne bore the intelligence; so going into the City to the paternal counting-house in Thames Street, he despatched thence a note to Mr. Osborne begging for a half-hour’s conversation relative to the affairs of his son George. Dobbin’s messenger returned from Mr. Osborne’s house of business, with the compliments of the latter, who would be very happy to see the Captain immediately, and away accordingly Dobbin went to confront him.
因此，在让姐妹们做好准备后，多宾赶紧前往伦敦城，去完成他所承担的任务中剩下的、也是更困难的部分。一想到要面对老奥斯本，他就不免有些紧张，他不止一次地想到要让年轻的女士们去传达这个秘密，但据他所知，她们无法长久保留这个秘密。但他答应向乔治报告老奥斯本传递情报的方式。于是，他进了城，来到泰晤士街父亲的会计室，在那里给奥斯本先生寄了一张便条，请求他就他儿子乔治的事务进行半小时的谈话。多宾的信使从奥斯本先生的生意场回来，得到了奥斯本先生的致意，他会很高兴立即见到船长，于是多宾就去见他了。

The Captain, with a half-guilty secret to confess, and with the prospect of a painful and stormy interview before him, entered Mr. Osborne’s offices with a most dismal countenance and abashed gait, and, passing through the outer room where Mr. Chopper presided, was greeted by that functionary from his desk with a waggish air which farther discomfited him. Mr. Chopper winked and nodded and pointed his pen towards his patron’s door, and said, ‘You’ll find the governor all right,’ with the most provoking good humour.
上尉带着一个半有罪的秘密要坦白，并面临着一场痛苦而暴风雨的采访的前景，他带着极其沮丧的表情和羞愧的步态走进奥斯本先生的办公室，穿过乔巴先生所在的外室。主持会议时，那位官员在他的办公桌上以一种滑稽的态度迎接他，这让他更加感到不安。乔巴先生眨了眨眼睛，点点头，用钢笔指着他赞助人的门，说道：“你会发现州长没事的。”带着最令人兴奋的幽默。

Osborne rose too, and shook him heartily by the hand, and said, ‘How do, my dear boy?’ with a cordiality that made poor George’s ambassador feel doubly guilty. His hand lay as if dead in the old gentleman’s grasp. He felt that he, Dobbin, was more or less the cause of all that had happened. It was he had brought back George to Amelia: it was he had applauded, encouraged, transacted almost the marriage which he was come to reveal to George’s father: and the latter was receiving him with smiles of welcome; patting him on the shoulder, and calling him ‘Dobbin, my dear boy.’ The envoy had indeed good reason to hang his head.
奥斯本也站了起来，热情地握着他的手，问道：“怎么样，我亲爱的孩子？”他的热情让可怜的乔治的大使感到加倍的内疚。他的手像死了一样死在老绅士的手里。他觉得他，多宾，或多或少是造成这一切的原因。是他把乔治带回了阿米莉亚：是他鼓掌、鼓励，几乎促成了他向乔治的父亲透露的婚姻：乔治的父亲带着欢迎的微笑接待了他。拍拍他的肩膀，叫他“多宾，我亲爱的孩子。”特使确实有充分的理由低下头。

Osborne fully believed that Dobbin had come to announce his son’s surrender. Mr. Chopper and his principal were talking over the matter between George and his father, at the very moment when Dobbin’s messenger arrived. Both agreed that George was sending in his submission. Both had been expecting it for some days—and ‘Lord! Chopper, what a marriage we’ll have!’ Mr. Osborne said to his clerk, snapping his big fingers, and jingling all the guineas and shillings in his great pockets as he eyed his subordinate with a look of triumph.
奥斯本完全相信多宾是来宣布儿子投降的。乔巴先生和他的校长正在讨论乔治和他父亲之间的事情，就在多宾的使者到达的时候。两人都同意乔治正在提交他的意见书。两人已经期待这一天好几天了——‘主啊！乔巴，我们会有多么美好的婚姻啊！”奥斯本先生对他的店员说，他打着响指，大口袋里的几尼和先令叮当作响，同时用一种胜利的眼神看着他的下属。

With similar operations conducted in both pockets, and a knowing jolly air, Osborne from his chair regarded Dobbin seated blank and silent opposite to him. ‘What a bumpkin he is for a Captain in the army,’ old Osborne thought. ‘I wonder George hasn’t taught him better manners.’
奥斯本在两个口袋里都进行了类似的操作，脸上带着一种会意的快活神情，坐在椅子上看着坐在他对面的多宾，他茫然无声，一言不发。 “作为一名陆军上尉，他真是个乡巴佬啊。”老奥斯本心想。 “我想知道乔治没有教他更好的举止。”

At last Dobbin summoned courage to begin. ‘Sir,’ said he, ‘I’ve brought you some very grave news. I have been at the Horse Guards this morning, and there’s no doubt that our regiment will be ordered abroad, and on its way to Belgium before the week is over. And you know, sir, that we shan’t be home again before a tussle which may be fatal to many of us.’ Osborne looked grave. ‘My s—, the regiment will do its duty, sir, I daresay,’ he said.
多宾终于鼓起勇气开始了。 “先生，”他说，“我给您带来了一些非常严重的消息。今天早上我去过皇家骑兵卫队，毫无疑问，我们的团将奉命出国，并在本周结束前前往比利时。先生，您知道，在发生一场对我们许多人来说可能致命的争斗之前，我们不会再回家了。” 奥斯本看上去很严肃。 “我的——，我敢说，团会履行职责，长官，”他说。

‘The French are very strong, sir,’ Dobbin went on. ‘The Russians and Austrians will be a long time before they can bring their troops down. We shall have the first of the fight, sir; and depend on it Boney will take care that it shall be a hard one.’
“法国人非常强大，长官，”多宾继续说道。 “俄罗斯人和奥地利人需要很长时间才能击倒他们的军队。我们将取得战斗的第一胜，长官；相信博尼会注意这将是一场艰难的比赛。

‘What are you driving at, Dobbin?’ his interlocutor said, uneasy and with a scowl. ‘I suppose no Briton’s afraid of any d—Frenchman, hey?’
“你到底想干什么，多宾？”他的对话者不安地皱起眉头说道。 “我想没有一个英国人会害怕任何法国人，嘿？”

‘I only mean, that before we go, and considering the great and certain risk that hangs over every one of us—if there are any differences between you and George—it would be as well, sir, that— that you should shake hands: wouldn’t it? Should anything happen to him, I think you would never forgive yourself if you hadn’t parted in charity.’
“我只是说，在我们走之前，考虑到我们每个人都面临着巨大而确定的风险——如果你和乔治之间有任何分歧——那也好，先生，你应该握手: 不会吗？如果他出了什么事，我想如果你没有以慈善方式分手，你永远不会原谅自己。”

As he said this, poor William Dobbin blushed crimson, and felt and owned that he himself was a traitor. But for him, perhaps, this severance need never have taken place. Why had not George’s marriage been delayed? What call was there to press it on so eagerly? He felt that George would have parted from Amelia at any rate without a mortal pang. Amelia, too, MIGHT have recovered the shock of losing him. It was his counsel had brought about this marriage, and all that was to ensue from it. And why was it? Because he loved her so much that he could not bear to see her unhappy: or because his own sufferings of suspense were so unendurable that he was glad to crush them at once—as we hasten a funeral after a death, or, when a separation from those we love is imminent, cannot rest until the parting be over.
说这话时，可怜的威廉·多宾的脸涨得通红，他觉得自己就是个叛徒。但对他来说，也许这种遣散的需要从未发生过。乔治的婚事为什么没有推迟呢？到底是什么召唤让我们如此急切地按下它？他觉得乔治无论如何都会与阿米莉亚分开，而不会感到致命的痛苦。阿米莉亚也可能已经恢复了失去他的震惊。正是他的建议促成了这桩婚姻，以及随之而来的一切。为什么会这样呢？因为他是如此爱她，以至于他无法忍受看到她不快乐；或者因为他自己的悬念所带来的痛苦是如此难以忍受，所以他很高兴立即将它们压碎——就像我们在死后匆忙举行葬礼，或者在分离时与我们所爱的人的分离迫在眉睫，直到分离结束才可以休息。

‘You are a good fellow, William,’ said Mr. Osborne in a softened voice; ‘and me and George shouldn’t part in anger, that is true. Look here. I’ve done for him as much as any father ever did. He’s had three times as much money from me, as I warrant your father ever gave you. But I don’t brag about that. How I’ve toiled for him, and worked and employed my talents and energy, I won’t say. Ask Chopper. Ask himself. Ask the City of London. Well, I propose to him such a marriage as any nobleman in the land might be proud of— the only thing in life I ever asked him—and he refuses me. Am I wrong? Is the quarrel of MY making? What do I seek but his good, for which I’ve been toiling like a convict ever since he was born? Nobody can say there’s anything selfish in me. Let him come back. I say, here’s my hand. I say, forget and forgive. As for marrying now, it’s out of the question. Let him and Miss S. make it up, and make out the marriage afterwards, when he comes back a Colonel; for he shall be a Colonel, by G— he shall, if money can do it. I’m glad you’ve brought him round. I know it’s you, Dobbin. You’ve took him out of many a scrape before. Let him come. I shan’t be hard. Come along, and dine in Russell Square to-day: both of you. The old shop, the old hour. You’ll find a neck of venison, and no questions asked.’
“你是个好人，威廉，”奥斯本先生用柔和的声音说道。 “我和乔治不应该因为愤怒而分开，这是真的。看这里。我为他所做的一切与任何父亲所做的一样多。他从我这里得到的钱是你父亲给你的钱的三倍。但我并不吹嘘这一点。我是如何为他辛劳、工作和运用我的才能和精力的，我不会说。问问乔巴吧。问自己。询问伦敦金融城。好吧，我向他求婚，这是这片土地上任何贵族都会引以为豪的婚姻——这是我一生中唯一向他提出的要求——但他拒绝了我。我错了吗？争吵是我造成的吗？除了他的好处之外，我还能追求什么呢？从他出生起，我就像囚犯一样为之辛苦劳作。没有人能说我有什么自私的地方。让他回来吧。我说，这是我的手。我说，忘记并原谅。至于现在结婚，那是不可能了。让他和S小姐言归于好，等他以上校身份回来之后再办婚事。因为他将成为一名上校，天哪——如果有钱的话，他一定会的。我很高兴你让他醒悟了。我知道是你，多宾。你以前曾多次帮助他摆脱困境。让他来吧。我不会太难。今天一起来罗素广场吃饭吧：你们俩。老店，老时光。你会发现一根鹿颈，而且没有任何问题。”

This praise and confidence smote Dobbin’s heart very keenly. Every moment the colloquy continued in this tone, he felt more and more guilty. ‘Sir,’ said he, ‘I fear you deceive yourself. I am sure you do. George is much too high-minded a man ever to marry for money. A threat on your part that you would disinherit him in case of disobedience would only be followed by resistance on his.’
这种赞扬和信心极大地打击了多宾的心。每当以这种语气继续谈话，他就感到越来越内疚。 “先生，”他说，“我担心你欺骗了自己。”我相信你会的。乔治是一个心胸太高的人，他绝不会为了钱而结婚。如果你威胁他，如果他不服从，你就会剥夺他的继承权，这样他就会反抗。

‘Why, hang it, man, you don’t call offering him eight or ten thousand a year threatening him?’ Mr. Osborne said, with still provoking good humour. ‘‘Gad, if Miss S. will have me, I’m her man. I ain’t particular about a shade or so of tawny.’ And the old gentleman gave his knowing grin and coarse laugh.
“哎呀，算了吧，伙计，你不认为每年给他提供八块或一万块钱是在威胁他吗？”奥斯本先生说道，语气中仍然充满了幽默感。 “天啊，如果S小姐愿意娶我，我就是她的男人。”我对黄褐色左右的颜色并不挑剔。”老绅士露出了会心的笑容，粗俗地笑了笑。

‘You forget, sir, previous engagements into which Captain Osborne had entered,’ the ambassador said, gravely.
“您忘记了，先生，奥斯本上尉之前参加过的活动，”大使严肃地说。

‘What engagements? What the devil do you mean? You don’t mean,’ Mr. Osborne continued, gathering wrath and astonishment as the thought now first came upon him; ‘you don’t mean that he’s such a d—fool as to be still hankering after that swindling old bankrupt’s daughter? You’ve not come here for to make me suppose that he wants to marry HER? Marry HER, that IS a good one. My son and heir marry a beggar’s girl out of a gutter. D—him, if he does, let him buy a broom and sweep a crossing. She was always dangling and ogling after him, I recollect now; and I’ve no doubt she was put on by her old sharper of a father.’
‘什么约定？你到底是什么意思？你不是这个意思。”奥斯本先生继续说道，当他第一次想到这一点时，他感到愤怒和惊讶。 “你的意思是说，他是个傻瓜，还对那个骗子老破产的女儿念念不忘？”你来这里不是为了让我猜想他想娶她吗？嫁给她，这是一件好事。我的儿子和继承人娶了一个来自阴沟的乞丐女孩。 D——他，如果他这样做了，就让他买把扫帚，扫个路口。我现在记得，她总是在他身后晃来晃去，用眼神盯着他。我毫不怀疑她是被她那老尖刻的父亲欺骗了。

‘Mr. Sedley was your very good friend, sir,’ Dobbin interposed, almost pleased at finding himself growing angry. ‘Time was you called him better names than rogue and swindler. The match was of your making. George had no right to play fast and loose—‘
'先生。塞德利是你的好朋友，先生。”多宾插话道，几乎很高兴地发现自己变得生气了。 “时间让你给他起了比流氓和骗子更好的名字。”这场比赛是你一手造成的。乔治没有权利反复无常——”

‘Fast and loose!’ howled out old Osborne. ‘Fast and loose! Why, hang me, those are the very words my gentleman used himself when he gave himself airs, last Thursday was a fortnight, and talked about the British army to his father who made him. What, it’s you who have been a setting of him up—is it? and my service to you, CAPTAIN. It’s you who want to introduce beggars into my family. Thank you for nothing, Captain. Marry HER indeed—he, he! why should he? I warrant you she’d go to him fast enough without.’
“又快又松！”老奥斯本大声喊道。 ‘又快又松！哎呀，绞死我吧，这就是我的绅士在上周四摆架子时用的那些话，已经是两周了，他向造就他的父亲谈论了英国军队。什么，是你陷害了他——是吗？以及我为您提供的服务，船长。是你想把乞丐引入我家的。谢谢你，没什么，船长。确实嫁给她了——他，他！他为什么要这么做？我向你保证，如果没有的话，她会足够快地去找他。

‘Sir,’ said Dobbin, starting up in undisguised anger; ‘no man shall abuse that lady in my hearing, and you least of all.’
“先生，”多宾说道，他毫不掩饰地愤怒起来。 “任何人都不得在我耳边辱骂那位女士，尤其是你。”

‘O, you’re a-going to call me out, are you? Stop, let me ring the bell for pistols for two. Mr. George sent you here to insult his father, did he?’ Osborne said, pulling at the bell-cord.
‘哦，你要叫我出去，是吗？停下来，让我按响铃，给两人手枪。乔治先生派你来这里是为了侮辱他的父亲，是吗？”奥斯本一边说，一边拉着门铃绳。

‘Mr. Osborne,’ said Dobbin, with a faltering voice, ‘it’s you who are insulting the best creature in the world. You had best spare her, sir, for she’s your son’s wife.’
'先生。奥斯本，”多宾声音颤抖地说，“是你在侮辱世界上最好的生物。先生，您最好放过她，因为她是您儿子的妻子。

And with this, feeling that he could say no more, Dobbin went away, Osborne sinking back in his chair, and looking wildly after him. A clerk came in, obedient to the bell; and the Captain was scarcely out of the court where Mr. Osborne’s offices were, when Mr. Chopper the chief clerk came rushing hatless after him.
说完，多宾觉得自己不能再说了，就走开了，奥斯本靠在椅子上，疯狂地看着他。一名职员按门铃进来了。船长刚走出奥斯本先生办公室所在的法庭，首席书记官乔巴先生就没戴帽子追了过来。

‘For God’s sake, what is it?’ Mr. Chopper said, catching the Captain by the skirt. ‘The governor’s in a fit. What has Mr. George been doing?’
“看在上帝的份上，这是什么？”乔巴先生说，抓住了船长的裙子。 ‘州长心情不好。乔治先生一直在做什么？

‘He married Miss Sedley five days ago,’ Dobbin replied. ‘I was his groomsman, Mr. Chopper, and you must stand his friend.’
“他五天前与塞德利小姐结婚了，”多宾回答道。 “我是他的伴郎，乔巴先生，你必须支持他的朋友。”

The old clerk shook his head. ‘If that’s your news, Captain, it’s bad. The governor will never forgive him.’
老店员摇摇头。 “如果这是你的消息，船长，那就糟糕了。州长永远不会原谅他。

Dobbin begged Chopper to report progress to him at the hotel where he was stopping, and walked off moodily westwards, greatly perturbed as to the past and the future.
多宾恳求乔巴在他下榻的酒店向他报告进展情况，然后心情郁闷地向西走去，对过去和未来都感到非常不安。

When the Russell Square family came to dinner that evening, they found the father of the house seated in his usual place, but with that air of gloom on his face, which, whenever it appeared there, kept the whole circle silent. The ladies, and Mr. Bullock who dined with them, felt that the news had been communicated to Mr. Osborne. His dark looks affected Mr. Bullock so far as to render him still and quiet: but he was unusually bland and attentive to Miss Maria, by whom he sat, and to her sister presiding at the head of the table.
那天晚上，当罗素广场一家来吃晚饭时，他们发现一家之主坐在他平常的位置上，但他脸上带着阴郁的神情，每当他出现在那里时，都会让整个圈子保持沉默。女士们以及与她们一起用餐的布洛克先生觉得这个消息已经传达给了奥斯本先生。他黝黑的外表影响了布洛克先生，使他变得安静而安静；但他对坐在他旁边的玛丽亚小姐和坐在桌子一头的她的妹妹却异常温和和殷勤。

Miss Wirt, by consequence, was alone on her side of the board, a gap being left between her and Miss Jane Osborne. Now this was George’s place when he dined at home; and his cover, as we said, was laid for him in expectation of that truant’s return. Nothing occurred during dinner-time except smiling Mr. Frederick’s flagging confidential whispers, and the clinking of plate and china, to interrupt the silence of the repast. The servants went about stealthily doing their duty. Mutes at funerals could not look more glum than the domestics of Mr. Osborne The neck of venison of which he had invited Dobbin to partake, was carved by him in perfect silence; but his own share went away almost untasted, though he drank much, and the butler assiduously filled his glass.
结果，沃特小姐独自一人站在棋盘上，她和简·奥斯本小姐之间留下了一条空隙。现在，这是乔治在家吃饭时的地方。正如我们所说，他的掩护是为了等待那个逃学者回来而为他准备的。晚餐时间，除了弗雷德里克先生微笑着、低声细语、盘子和瓷器的叮当作响，打破了就餐的宁静之外，没有发生任何事情。仆人们悄悄地走来走去，履行自己的职责。葬礼上的哑巴们看上去再没有比奥斯本先生的仆人更忧郁的了。尽管他喝了很多酒，但他自己的那份几乎没有尝过，管家也勤奋地给他斟满了酒。

At last, just at the end of the dinner, his eyes, which had been staring at everybody in turn, fixed themselves for a while upon the plate laid for George. He pointed to it presently with his left hand. His daughters looked at him and did not comprehend, or choose to comprehend, the signal; nor did the servants at first understand it.
最后，就在晚餐即将结束时，他原本轮流盯着每个人的眼睛，又在摆给乔治的盘子上停留了一会儿。他立即用左手指着它。他的女儿们看着他，没有理解，或者选择理解这个信号；仆人们起初也不明白。

‘Take that plate away,’ at last he said, getting up with an oath— and with this pushing his chair back, he walked into his own room.
“把那个盘子拿走，”最后他说，一边起身发誓——一边把椅子往后一推，走进了自己的房间。

Behind Mr. Osborne’s dining-room was the usual apartment which went in his house by the name of the study; and was sacred to the master of the house. Hither Mr. Osborne would retire of a Sunday forenoon when not minded to go to church; and here pass the morning in his crimson leather chair, reading the paper. A couple of glazed bookcases were here, containing standard works in stout gilt bindings. The ‘Annual Register,’ the ‘Gentleman’s Magazine,’ ‘Blair’s Sermons,’ and ‘Hume and Smollett.’ From year’s end to year’s end he never took one of these volumes from the shelf; but there was no member of the family that would dare for his life to touch one of the books, except upon those rare Sunday evenings when there was no dinner-party, and when the great scarlet Bible and Prayer-book were taken out from the corner where they stood beside his copy of the Peerage, and the servants being rung up to the dining parlour, Osborne read the evening service to his family in a loud grating pompous voice. No member of the household, child, or domestic, ever entered that room without a certain terror. Here he checked the housekeeper’s accounts, and overhauled the butler’s cellar-book. Hence he could command, across the clean gravel court-yard, the back entrance of the stables with which one of his bells communicated, and into this yard the coachman issued from his premises as into a dock, and Osborne swore at him from the study window. Four times a year Miss Wirt entered this apartment to get her salary; and his daughters to receive their quarterly allowance. George as a boy had been horsewhipped in this room many times; his mother sitting sick on the stair listening to the cuts of the whip. The boy was scarcely ever known to cry under the punishment; the poor woman used to fondle and kiss him secretly, and give him money to soothe him when he came out.
奥斯本先生的餐厅后面是一间平常的公寓，被称为书房。并且对房子的主人来说是神圣的。周日上午，奥斯本先生如果不想去教堂，就会到这里休息。早晨，他坐在深红色的皮椅上，读着报纸。这里有几个玻璃书柜，里面装着坚固的镀金装订的标准作品。 《年度纪事》、《绅士杂志》、《布莱尔的布道》和《休谟与斯莫利特》。从年末到年末，他从来没有从书架上拿过其中一卷；但是，家里没有一个人敢冒着生命危险去碰其中一本书，除了那些罕见的周日晚上，没有晚宴，当那本巨大的猩红色圣经和祈祷书被从房间里拿出来的时候。角落里，他们站在他的《贵族手册》旁边，仆人们被叫到餐厅，奥斯本用一种响亮、刺耳、傲慢的声音向家人宣读晚间礼拜仪式。任何家庭成员，无论是孩子还是家庭成员，进入那个房间都会感到某种恐惧。他在这里检查了管家的账目，并检查了管家的地窖账簿。因此，他可以穿过干净的砾石庭院，指挥马厩的后门，他的一个铃与之通信，车夫从他的房屋进入这个院子，就像进入码头一样，奥斯本在书房里对他咒骂。窗户。沃特小姐每年四次进入这间公寓领取工资。和他的女儿们领取季度津贴。乔治小时候曾在这个房间里多次被鞭打。他的母亲病态地坐在楼梯上，听着鞭子的声音。 很少有人知道这个男孩在惩罚下哭过。那个可怜的女人常常偷偷地抚摸他、亲吻他，当他出来时，给他钱安抚他。

There was a picture of the family over the mantelpiece, removed thither from the front room after Mrs. Osborne’s death—George was on a pony, the elder sister holding him up a bunch of flowers; the younger led by her mother’s hand; all with red cheeks and large red mouths, simpering on each other in the approved family-portrait manner. The mother lay underground now, long since forgotten—the sisters and brother had a hundred different interests of their own, and, familiar still, were utterly estranged from each other. Some few score of years afterwards, when all the parties represented are grown old, what bitter satire there is in those flaunting childish family-portraits, with their farce of sentiment and smiling lies, and innocence so self-conscious and self-satisfied. Osborne’s own state portrait, with that of his great silver inkstand and armchair, had taken the place of honour in the dining-room, vacated by the family-piece.
壁炉架上挂着一张全家福的照片，奥斯本夫人去世后，这张照片就从前屋移走了——乔治骑着一匹小马，姐姐举起一束鲜花；乔治骑着一匹小马，姐姐举起一束鲜花；小女儿由母亲牵着。所有人都红着脸颊，张着红红的大嘴，以全家福中公认的方式互相傻笑。母亲现在躺在地下，早已被人遗忘——姐妹和兄弟有一百种不同的兴趣，虽然仍然熟悉，但彼此之间却完全疏远了。几十年后，当所代表的各方都已老去时，那些张扬着幼稚的家庭肖像，带着伤感的闹剧和微笑的谎言，以及如此自觉和自我满足的天真，是多么辛辣的讽刺。奥斯本自己的国家肖像，以及他那巨大的银色墨水台和扶手椅，占据了餐厅里的荣誉位置，因为家庭物品腾出了位置。

To this study old Osborne retired then, greatly to the relief of the small party whom he left. When the servants had withdrawn, they began to talk for a while volubly but very low; then they went upstairs quietly, Mr. Bullock accompanying them stealthily on his creaking shoes. He had no heart to sit alone drinking wine, and so close to the terrible old gentleman in the study hard at hand.
老奥斯本随后就退休了，开始从事这项研究，这让他留下的一小部分人松了口气。仆人们退开后，他们开始滔滔不绝地低声交谈了一会儿。然后他们悄悄地上楼，布洛克先生穿着吱吱作响的鞋子悄悄地陪着他们。他不忍心独自坐在书房里喝酒，离书房里那个可怕的老先生那么近。

An hour at least after dark, the butler, not having received any summons, ventured to tap at his door and take him in wax candles and tea. The master of the house sate in his chair, pretending to read the paper, and when the servant, placing the lights and refreshment on the table by him, retired, Mr. Osborne got up and locked the door after him. This time there was no mistaking the matter; all the household knew that some great catastrophe was going to happen which was likely direly to affect Master George.
天黑后至少一个小时，管家在没有接到任何传唤的情况下，就大胆地敲了敲门，给他送上了蜡烛和茶。主人坐在椅子上，假装在看报纸，当仆人把灯和点心放在他身旁的桌子上退下时，奥斯本先生起身并锁上了门。这次没有搞错。全家人都知道即将发生一场大灾难，这可能会严重影响乔治少爷。

In the large shining mahogany escritoire Mr. Osborne had a drawer especially devoted to his son’s affairs and papers. Here he kept all the documents relating to him ever since he had been a boy: here were his prize copy-books and drawing-books, all bearing George’s hand, and that of the master: here were his first letters in large round-hand sending his love to papa and mamma, and conveying his petitions for a cake. His dear godpapa Sedley was more than once mentioned in them. Curses quivered on old Osborne’s livid lips, and horrid hatred and disappointment writhed in his heart, as looking through some of these papers he came on that name. They were all marked and docketed, and tied with red tape. It was—‘From Georgy, requesting 5s., April 23, 18—; answered, April 25’—or ‘Georgy about a pony, October 13’—and so forth. In another packet were ‘Dr. S.’s accounts’—‘G.’s tailor’s bills and outfits, drafts on me by G. Osborne, jun.,’ &c.—his letters from the West Indies—his agent’s letters, and the newspapers containing his commissions: here was a whip he had when a boy, and in a paper a locket containing his hair, which his mother used to wear.
奥斯本先生那间闪闪发亮的大红木写字台里有一个抽屉，专门用来存放他儿子的事务和文件。在这里，他保存着自孩提时代以来与他有关的所有文件：这里是他获奖的习字本和图画书，全都出自乔治和大师的手笔：这里是他用大圆字体写的第一封信向爸爸和妈妈表达他的爱，并转达他对蛋糕的请求。其中不止一次提到他亲爱的教父塞德利。老奥斯本苍白的嘴唇上颤抖着咒骂，可怕的仇恨和失望在他的心中翻腾，当他翻阅其中一些文件时，他看到了这个名字。它们都做了标记和记录，并用红胶带捆扎起来。这是——‘乔治寄来的，要求 5 秒，2018 年 4 月 23 日——；回答，4 月 25 日”——或者“乔吉关于一匹小马，10 月 13 日”——等等。另一个包裹里写着“Dr.”。 S. 的账目——“G. 的裁缝账单和服装，G. 奥斯本先生为我起草的草稿”等等——他从西印度群岛寄来的信件——他的代理人的信件，以及载有他的佣金的报纸：这是他小时候拥有的一根鞭子，还有一个用纸包着的挂坠盒，里面装着他的头发，他母亲曾经戴着这个挂坠盒。

Turning one over after another, and musing over these memorials, the unhappy man passed many hours. His dearest vanities, ambitious hopes, had all been here. What pride he had in his boy! He was the handsomest child ever seen. Everybody said he was like a nobleman’s son. A royal princess had remarked him, and kissed him, and asked his name in Kew Gardens. What City man could show such another? Could a prince have been better cared for? Anything that money could buy had been his son’s. He used to go down on speech-days with four horses and new liveries, and scatter new shillings among the boys at the school where George was: when he went with George to the depot of his regiment, before the boy embarked for Canada, he gave the officers such a dinner as the Duke of York might have sat down to. Had he ever refused a bill when George drew one? There they were—paid without a word. Many a general in the army couldn’t ride the horses he had! He had the child before his eyes, on a hundred different days when he remembered George after dinner, when he used to come in as bold as a lord and drink off his glass by his father’s side, at the head of the table—on the pony at Brighton, when he cleared the hedge and kept up with the huntsman—on the day when he was presented to the Prince Regent at the levee, when all Saint James’s couldn’t produce a finer young fellow. And this, this was the end of all!—to marry a bankrupt and fly in the face of duty and fortune! What humiliation and fury: what pangs of sickening rage, balked ambition and love; what wounds of outraged vanity, tenderness even, had this old worldling now to suffer under!
这个不幸的人翻了一个又一个，沉思着这些纪念碑，度过了好几个小时。他最珍贵的虚荣心、雄心勃勃的希望，全都在这里。他为自己的儿子感到多么自豪啊！他是见过的最英俊的孩子。大家都说他像贵族的儿子。一位皇家公主在邱园注意到了他，吻了他，还问了他的名字。哪个城里人能展现出这样的另一个？王子能得到更好的照顾吗？凡是有钱能买到的东西都是他儿子的。他过去常常在演讲日带着四匹马和新制服下去，并把新先令撒给乔治所在学校的男孩们：当他和乔治一起去他的团的仓库时，在男孩启程前往加拿大之前，他为军官们提供了约克公爵可能会坐下来享用的晚餐。当乔治开出一张钞票时，他有没有拒绝过一张钞票？他们就在那里——一言不发地付了钱。军队里很多将军都骑不了自己的马！一百个不同的日子里，当他在晚饭后想起乔治时，他总是把孩子放在眼前，那时他常常像一位勋爵一样大胆地进来，在他父亲身边，在桌子的一头——在桌子上，喝着他的杯子。布莱顿的小马，当他清理树篱并跟上猎人的时候——那天他被介绍给堤坝摄政王，当时整个圣詹姆斯都找不到比他更优秀的年轻人了。而这，这就是一切的结局！——嫁给一个破产者，并在责任和财富面前飞翔！这是何等的羞辱和愤怒：何等令人作呕的愤怒、阻碍的野心和爱；这个古老的世界现在正承受着多么强烈的虚荣心，甚至是温柔的创伤啊！

Having examined these papers, and pondered over this one and the other, in that bitterest of all helpless woe, with which miserable men think of happy past times—George’s father took the whole of the documents out of the drawer in which he had kept them so long, and locked them into a writing-box, which he tied, and sealed with his seal. Then he opened the book-case, and took down the great red Bible we have spoken of a pompous book, seldom looked at, and shining all over with gold. There was a frontispiece to the volume, representing Abraham sacrificing Isaac. Here, according to custom, Osborne had recorded on the fly-leaf, and in his large clerk-like hand, the dates of his marriage and his wife’s death, and the births and Christian names of his children. Jane came first, then George Sedley Osborne, then Maria Frances, and the days of the christening of each. Taking a pen, he carefully obliterated George’s names from the page; and when the leaf was quite dry, restored the volume to the place from which he had moved it. Then he took a document out of another drawer, where his own private papers were kept; and having read it, crumpled it up and lighted it at one of the candles, and saw it burn entirely away in the grate. It was his will; which being burned, he sate down and wrote off a letter, and rang for his servant, whom he charged to deliver it in the morning. It was morning already: as he went up to bed, the whole house was alight with the sunshine; and the birds were singing among the fresh green leaves in Russell Square.
乔治的父亲在检查了这些文件，思考了这些文件之后，在所有无助的悲痛中最痛苦的时候，痛苦的人们都会想起过去的幸福时光，乔治的父亲从他存放文件的抽屉里取出了所有文件。这么久了，他把它们锁进一个文具盒里，绑好，并盖上印章。然后他打开书柜，拿出一本我们所说的巨大的红色《圣经》，一本浮夸的书，很少有人翻看，通体金光闪闪。该卷的卷首插图描绘了亚伯拉罕牺牲以撒的场景。在这里，按照惯例，奥斯本在扉页上，用他像职员一样的大手，记录了他的结婚日期和妻子的死亡日期，以及孩子们的出生日期和教名。首先是简，然后是乔治·塞德利·奥斯本，然后是玛丽亚·弗朗西斯，以及每个人的洗礼日。他拿起笔，小心翼翼地从纸上写下了乔治的名字。当叶子完全干燥时，将卷恢复到原来的位置。然后他从另一个抽屉里拿出一份文件，里面放着他自己的私人文件；读完后，把它揉成一团，在一根蜡烛上点燃，然后看到它在壁炉里完全燃烧殆尽。这是他的意愿；信被烧毁了，他坐下来写了一封信，然后按铃叫仆人，吩咐他早上去送信。已经是早晨了，当他上床睡觉时，整个房子都沐浴在阳光下。鸟儿在罗素广场的新绿叶间歌唱。

Anxious to keep all Mr. Osborne’s family and dependants in good humour, and to make as many friends as possible for George in his hour of adversity, William Dobbin, who knew the effect which good dinners and good wines have upon the soul of man, wrote off immediately on his return to his inn the most hospitable of invitations to Thomas Chopper, Esquire, begging that gentleman to dine with him at the Slaughters’ next day. The note reached Mr. Chopper before he left the City, and the instant reply was, that ‘Mr. Chopper presents his respectful compliments, and will have the honour and pleasure of waiting on Captain D.’ The invitation and the rough draft of the answer were shown to Mrs. Chopper and her daughters on his return to Somers’ Town that evening, and they talked about military gents and West End men with great exultation as the family sate and partook of tea. When the girls had gone to rest, Mr. and Mrs. C. discoursed upon the strange events which were occurring in the governor’s family. Never had the clerk seen his principal so moved. When he went in to Mr. Osborne, after Captain Dobbin’s departure, Mr. Chopper found his chief black in the face, and all but in a fit: some dreadful quarrel, he was certain, had occurred between Mr. O. and the young Captain. Chopper had been instructed to make out an account of all sums paid to Captain Osborne within the last three years. ‘And a precious lot of money he has had too,’ the chief clerk said, and respected his old and young master the more, for the liberal way in which the guineas had been flung about. The dispute was something about Miss Sedley. Mrs. Chopper vowed and declared she pitied that poor young lady to lose such a handsome young fellow as the Capting. As the daughter of an unlucky speculator, who had paid a very shabby dividend, Mr. Chopper had no great regard for Miss Sedley. He respected the house of Osborne before all others in the City of London: and his hope and wish was that Captain George should marry a nobleman’s daughter. The clerk slept a great deal sounder than his principal that night; and, cuddling his children after breakfast (of which he partook with a very hearty appetite, though his modest cup of life was only sweetened with brown sugar), he set off in his best Sunday suit and frilled shirt for business, promising his admiring wife not to punish Captain D.’s port too severely that evening.
威廉·多宾渴望让奥斯本先生的所有家人和家属保持良好的心情，并在乔治处于逆境时为他结交尽可能多的朋友，他知道美味的晚餐和美酒对人的灵魂的影响，回到旅馆后，他立即写下了对托马斯·乔巴先生最热情的邀请，恳求这位绅士第二天在斯劳特一家与他共进晚餐。乔巴先生在离开伦敦市之前就收到了这张纸条，他立即得到的答复是：“乔巴先生”。乔巴向他致以崇高的敬意，并将荣幸而高兴地接待 D 船长。当晚乔巴返回萨默斯镇时，邀请函和草稿的答复已交给乔巴夫人和她的女儿们，她们当一家人坐在一起喝茶时，他们兴高采烈地谈论着军事绅士和伦敦西区的男人。女孩们去休息后，C先生和夫人谈论着州长家里发生的奇怪事件。店员从来没有见过他的校长如此感动。多宾上尉离开后，乔巴先生走进奥斯本先生那里，发现他的首领脸色发黑，而且几乎是在发作：他确信，O先生和年轻人之间发生了一些可怕的争吵。队长。乔巴奉命列出过去三年内支付给奥斯本上尉的所有款项。 “他也有很多宝贵的钱，”首席职员说，并更加尊重他的老主人和年轻的主人，因为金币被扔来扔去的慷慨方式。这场争论是关于塞德利小姐的。乔巴夫人发誓，并宣称她很同情那位可怜的年轻女士，因为她失去了像上尉这样英俊的年轻人。 作为一个不幸的投机者的女儿，乔巴先生支付的股息非常少，因此他对塞德利小姐并没有多大的尊重。他在伦敦金融城最先尊重奥斯本家族：他的希望和愿望是乔治船长应该娶一位贵族的女儿。那天晚上，店员睡得比他的校长睡得香。早餐后，他抱着孩子们（尽管他的生活只是用红糖来调味，但他吃得很饱），穿着他最好的周日西装和褶边衬衫出发去处理事务，向他仰慕的妻子许诺那天晚上不要太严厉地惩罚D船长的港口。

Mr. Osborne’s countenance, when he arrived in the City at his usual time, struck those dependants who were accustomed, for good reasons, to watch its expression, as peculiarly ghastly and worn. At twelve o’clock Mr. Higgs (of the firm of Higgs & Blatherwick, solicitors, Bedford Row) called by appointment, and was ushered into the governor’s private room, and closeted there for more than an hour. At about one Mr. Chopper received a note brought by Captain Dobbin’s man, and containing an inclosure for Mr. Osborne, which the clerk went in and delivered. A short time afterwards Mr. Chopper and Mr. Birch, the next clerk, were summoned, and requested to witness a paper. ‘I’ve been making a new will,’ Mr. Osborne said, to which these gentlemen appended their names accordingly. No conversation passed. Mr. Higgs looked exceedingly grave as he came into the outer rooms, and very hard in Mr. Chopper’s face; but there were not any explanations. It was remarked that Mr. Osborne was particularly quiet and gentle all day, to the surprise of those who had augured ill from his darkling demeanour. He called no man names that day, and was not heard to swear once. He left business early; and before going away, summoned his chief clerk once more, and having given him general instructions, asked him, after some seeming hesitation and reluctance to speak, if he knew whether Captain Dobbin was in town?
当奥斯本先生按照平常的时间到达伦敦时，他的面容给那些习惯于观察他表情的家属们留下了深刻的印象，因为他们有充分的理由看到他的表情，特别可怕和憔悴。十二点钟，希格斯先生（贝德福德街希格斯与布拉瑟威克律师事务所的律师事务所）按预约打来电话，被带进州长的私人房间，在那里待了一个多小时。大约一点点，乔巴先生收到了多宾船长的人带来的一张纸条，里面有一封给奥斯本先生的信函，店员进去交付了。不久之后，乔巴先生和下一位职员伯奇先生被传唤，要求见证一份文件。 “我一直在立一份新遗嘱，”奥斯本先生说，这些先生们相应地在遗嘱上附上了他们的名字。没有谈话通过。当希格斯先生走进外面的房间时，他的表情非常严肃，在乔巴先生的脸上显得非常严厉。但没有任何解释。有人说，奥斯本先生一整天都特别安静、温和，这让那些从他阴暗的举止中看出不祥之兆的人感到惊讶。那天他没有骂人，也没有人听到他说脏话。他很早就下班了；在离开之前，他再次叫来了他的首席秘书，给了他一般性的指示，在似乎犹豫和不愿说话之后，问他是否知道多宾船长是否在城里？

Chopper said he believed he was. Indeed both of them knew the fact perfectly.
乔巴说他相信他是。事实上，他们两个都清楚这个事实。

Osborne took a letter directed to that officer, and giving it to the clerk, requested the latter to deliver it into Dobbin’s own hands immediately.
奥斯本接过一封写给那位军官的信，交给书记员，要求后者立即将信交到多宾手中。

‘And now, Chopper,’ says he, taking his hat, and with a strange look, ‘my mind will be easy.’ Exactly as the clock struck two (there was no doubt an appointment between the pair) Mr. Frederick Bullock called, and he and Mr. Osborne walked away together.
“现在，乔巴，”他一边说，一边拿起帽子，表情怪异，“我的心会轻松一些。”就在时钟敲响两点时（毫无疑问，两人之间有一个约会），弗雷德里克·布洛克先生打来电话，然后他和奥斯本先生一起走开了。

The Colonel of the —th regiment, in which Messieurs Dobbin and Osborne had companies, was an old General who had made his first campaign under Wolfe at Quebec, and was long since quite too old and feeble for command; but he took some interest in the regiment of which he was the nominal head, and made certain of his young officers welcome at his table, a kind of hospitality which I believe is not now common amongst his brethren. Captain Dobbin was an especial favourite of this old General. Dobbin was versed in the literature of his profession, and could talk about the great Frederick, and the Empress Queen, and their wars, almost as well as the General himself, who was indifferent to the triumphs of the present day, and whose heart was with the tacticians of fifty years back. This officer sent a summons to Dobbin to come and breakfast with him, on the morning when Mr. Osborne altered his will and Mr. Chopper put on his best shirt frill, and then informed his young favourite, a couple of days in advance, of that which they were all expecting—a marching order to go to Belgium. The order for the regiment to hold itself in readiness would leave the Horse Guards in a day or two; and as transports were in plenty, they would get their route before the week was over. Recruits had come in during the stay of the regiment at Chatham; and the old General hoped that the regiment which had helped to beat Montcalm in Canada, and to rout Mr. Washington on Long Island, would prove itself worthy of its historical reputation on the oft-trodden battle-grounds of the Low Countries. ‘And so, my good friend, if you have any affaire la, said the old General, taking a pinch of snuff with his trembling white old hand, and then pointing to the spot of his robe de chambre under which his heart was still feebly beating, ‘if you have any Phillis to console, or to bid farewell to papa and mamma, or any will to make, I recommend you to set about your business without delay.’ With which the General gave his young friend a finger to shake, and a good-natured nod of his powdered and pigtailed head; and the door being closed upon Dobbin, sate down to pen a poulet (he was exceedingly vain of his French) to Mademoiselle Amenaide of His Majesty’s Theatre.
多宾先生和奥斯本先生所在的第第军团的上校是一位老将军，他在沃尔夫麾下第一次参加魁北克战役，但他早已年老体衰，无法指挥指挥。但他对他名义上的团长有一些兴趣，并欢迎他的年轻军官坐在他的餐桌上，我相信这种热情好客在他的兄弟中现在并不常见。多宾上尉是这位老将军特别喜欢的人。多宾精通他的职业文学，可以谈论伟大的腓特烈和皇后以及他们的战争，几乎也可以谈论将军本人，他对当今的胜利漠不关心，他的心是与五十年前的战术家一起。就在奥斯本先生改变遗嘱、乔巴先生穿上他最好的衬衫褶边的那天早上，这位军官向多宾发出了传票，让他来和他一起吃早餐，然后提前几天通知他最喜欢的年轻人：他们都期待着——前往比利时的行军令。要求该团做好准备的命令将在一两天内离开骑兵卫队；由于交通工具充足，他们会在一周结束前找到路线。新兵是在该团驻查塔姆期间加入的。老将军希望，帮助击败加拿大蒙卡尔姆和长岛华盛顿先生的军团，能够在低地国家的战场上证明自己无愧于其历史声誉。 “所以，我的好朋友，如果你有什么事，”老将军说，用他颤抖着的苍白老手吸了一口鼻烟，然后指着他的长袍下他的心脏仍然微弱的地方。殴打，“如果你有任何菲利斯需要安慰，或者告别爸爸和妈妈，或者有任何遗嘱，我建议你立即着手处理你的事情。”将军向他的年轻朋友伸出了一根手指，与他握手，他撒着粉、扎着辫子的脑袋善意地点点头；门关上了，多宾坐下来给国王剧院的阿梅奈德小姐写了一份小鸡（他对自己的法语非常自负）。

This news made Dobbin grave, and he thought of our friends at Brighton, and then he was ashamed of himself that Amelia was always the first thing in his thoughts (always before anybody—before father and mother, sisters and duty—always at waking and sleeping indeed, and all day long); and returning to his hotel, he sent off a brief note to Mr. Osborne acquainting him with the information which he had received, and which might tend farther, he hoped, to bring about a reconciliation with George.
这个消息让多宾心情沉重，他想起了我们在布莱顿的朋友，然后他为自己感到羞愧，因为阿米莉亚总是他想到的第一件事（总是在任何人之前——在父亲和母亲、姐妹和责任之前——总是在醒来和醒来时）确实在睡觉，而且一整天）；回到旅馆后，他给奥斯本先生发了一封简短的便条，向他通报了他收到的信息，他希望这些信息可能会进一步促成与乔治的和解。

This note, despatched by the same messenger who had carried the invitation to Chopper on the previous day, alarmed the worthy clerk not a little. It was inclosed to him, and as he opened the letter he trembled lest the dinner should be put off on which he was calculating. His mind was inexpressibly relieved when he found that the envelope was only a reminder for himself. (“I shall expect you at half-past five,’ Captain Dobbin wrote.) He was very much interested about his employer’s family; but, que voulez-vous? a grand dinner was of more concern to him than the affairs of any other mortal.
这张便条是由前一天给乔巴送去邀请函的同一位信使寄出的，这让那位可敬的店员感到不小的惊慌。信是附在他手里的，当他打开信时，他浑身发抖，生怕他正在计划的晚餐会被推迟。当他发现这个信封只是对自己的一个提醒时，他的心里有说不出的释然。 （“我会在五点半等你，”多宾船长写道。）他对雇主的家庭非常感兴趣；他对他的家人非常感兴趣。但是，que voulez-vous？对他来说，一顿盛大的晚宴比任何其他凡人的事务都更重要。

Dobbin was quite justified in repeating the General’s information to any officers of the regiment whom he should see in the course of his peregrinations; accordingly he imparted it to Ensign Stubble, whom he met at the agent’s, and who—such was his military ardour—went off instantly to purchase a new sword at the accoutrement-maker’s. Here this young fellow, who, though only seventeen years of age, and about sixty-five inches high, with a constitution naturally rickety and much impaired by premature brandy and water, had an undoubted courage and a lion’s heart, poised, tried, bent, and balanced a weapon such as he thought would do execution amongst Frenchmen. Shouting ‘Ha, ha!’ and stamping his little feet with tremendous energy, he delivered the point twice or thrice at Captain Dobbin, who parried the thrust laughingly with his bamboo walking-stick.
多宾完全有理由向他在旅途中见到的团里任何军官重复将军的信息。因此，他把它交给了斯塔布尔少尉，他在代理人那里遇见了他，他——这就是他的军事热情——立即去装备制造商那里购买了一把新剑。这个年轻人虽然只有十七岁，身高约六十五英寸，体质天生就摇摇欲坠，而且早熟的白兰地和水严重损害了他的身体，但他却拥有无可置疑的勇气和狮子的心，泰然自若、努力尝试、弯曲。 ，并平衡了一种他认为可以在法国人中执行死刑的武器。他喊着“哈，哈！”，用巨大的力气跺着小脚，向多宾船长说了两三次，船长笑着用竹制手杖挡住了刺击。

Mr. Stubble, as may be supposed from his size and slenderness, was of the Light Bobs. Ensign Spooney, on the contrary, was a tall youth, and belonged to (Captain Dobbin’s) the Grenadier Company, and he tried on a new bearskin cap, under which he looked savage beyond his years. Then these two lads went off to the Slaughters’, and having ordered a famous dinner, sate down and wrote off letters to the kind anxious parents at home—letters full of love and heartiness, and pluck and bad spelling. Ah! there were many anxious hearts beating through England at that time; and mothers’ prayers and tears flowing in many homesteads.
斯塔布尔先生，从他的身材和苗条程度可以推测，他是轻鲍勃家族的成员。相反，斯波尼少尉是个高个子青年，属于（多宾上尉的）掷弹兵连，他试戴了一顶新的熊皮帽子，戴上帽子后，他看上去比实际年龄还要野蛮。然后这两个小伙子去了斯劳特家，订了一顿著名的晚餐，坐下来给家里善良焦急的父母写了信——信里充满了爱和诚挚，勇敢而拼写错误。啊!当时，英国各地有许多人焦虑不安。许多家园里流淌着母亲们的祈祷和泪水。

Seeing young Stubble engaged in composition at one of the coffeeroom tables at the Slaughters’, and the tears trickling down his nose on to the paper (for the youngster was thinking of his mamma, and that he might never see her again), Dobbin, who was going to write off a letter to George Osborne, relented, and locked up his desk. ‘Why should I?’ said he. ‘Let her have this night happy. I’ll go and see my parents early in the morning, and go down to Brighton myself to-morrow.’
看到年轻的斯塔布尔在斯劳特一家咖啡厅的一张桌子上写作，泪水顺着鼻子流到纸上（因为这个年轻人想着他的妈妈，他可能再也见不到她了），多宾，他原本打算写一封给乔治·奥斯本的信，但他态度软化了，锁上了办公桌。 “我为什么要这么做？”他说。 ‘让她度过这个愉快的夜晚。我一早就去见我的父母，明天我自己去布莱顿。

So he went up and laid his big hand on young Stubble’s shoulder, and backed up that young champion, and told him if he would leave off brandy and water he would be a good soldier, as he always was a gentlemanly good-hearted fellow. Young Stubble’s eyes brightened up at this, for Dobbin was greatly respected in the regiment, as the best officer and the cleverest man in it.
于是他走上前，把大手放在年轻的斯塔布尔的肩膀上，支持这位年轻的冠军，并告诉他，如果他不喝白兰地和水，他就会成为一名好士兵，因为他一直是一个绅士般的好心人。小斯塔布尔听了这句话，眼睛一亮，因为多宾在团里很受尊敬，是团里最好的军官和最聪明的人。

‘Thank you, Dobbin,’ he said, rubbing his eyes with his knuckles, ‘I was just—just telling her I would. And, O Sir, she’s so dam kind to me.’ The water pumps were at work again, and I am not sure that the soft-hearted Captain’s eyes did not also twinkle.
“谢谢你，多宾，”他用指关节揉着眼睛说，“我只是——只是告诉她我会的。”而且，先生啊，她对我真是太好了。”水泵又开始工作了，我不确定心软的船长的眼睛是否也闪烁着。

The two ensigns, the Captain, and Mr. Chopper, dined together in the same box. Chopper brought the letter from Mr. Osborne, in which the latter briefly presented his compliments to Captain Dobbin, and requested him to forward the inclosed to Captain George Osborne. Chopper knew nothing further; he described Mr. Osborne’s appearance, it is true, and his interview with his lawyer, wondered how the governor had sworn at nobody, and—especially as the wine circled round—abounded in speculations and conjectures. But these grew more vague with every glass, and at length became perfectly unintelligible. At a late hour Captain Dobbin put his guest into a hackney coach, in a hiccupping state, and swearing that he would be the kick—the kick—Captain’s friend for ever and ever.
船长和乔巴先生这两位少尉在同一个包厢里一起用餐。乔巴带来了奥斯本先生的信，后者在信中简要地向多宾船长致意，并要求他将内函转交给乔治·奥斯本船长。乔巴对此一无所知。他描述了奥斯本先生的外表，这是事实，以及他与律师的会面，想知道州长如何对任何人发誓，并且——尤其是在酒一转的时候——充满了猜测和猜想。但每喝一杯，这些就变得更加模糊，最后变得完全难以理解。深夜时分，多宾船长把他的客人送上了一辆哈克尼马车，当时他正在打嗝，并发誓他将成为船长永远的朋友。

When Captain Dobbin took leave of Miss Osborne we have said that he asked leave to come and pay her another visit, and the spinster expected him for some hours the next day, when, perhaps, had he come, and had he asked her that question which she was prepared to answer, she would have declared herself as her brother’s friend, and a reconciliation might have been effected between George and his angry father. But though she waited at home the Captain never came. He had his own affairs to pursue; his own parents to visit and console; and at an early hour of the day to take his place on the Lightning coach, and go down to his friends at Brighton. In the course of the day Miss Osborne heard her father give orders that that meddling scoundrel, Captain Dobbin, should never be admitted within his doors again, and any hopes in which she may have indulged privately were thus abruptly brought to an end. Mr. Frederick Bullock came, and was particularly affectionate to Maria, and attentive to the broken-spirited old gentleman. For though he said his mind would be easy, the means which he had taken to secure quiet did not seem to have succeeded as yet, and the events of the past two days had visibly shattered him.
当多宾船长告别奥斯本小姐时，我们说过他请假再次拜访她，老处女在第二天等了他几个小时，也许他什么时候来的，他问过她这个问题吗？她准备回答这个问题，她会宣称自己是她哥哥的朋友，乔治和他愤怒的父亲之间可能会达成和解。但尽管她在家里等着，船长却没有来。他有自己的事情要处理；探望自己的父母并予以安慰；当天一早，他就登上了闪电巴士，前往布莱顿的朋友那里。一天中，奥斯本小姐听到她父亲下令，那个爱管闲事的恶棍多宾船长再也不能进入他的家门，她私下里所抱有的任何希望就这样突然破灭了。弗雷德里克·布洛克先生来了，他对玛丽亚特别亲切，对这位精神崩溃的老绅士也很关心。因为虽然他嘴上说他的心情很轻松，但他所采取的保持安静的手段似乎还没有成功，而这两天发生的事情显然让他崩溃了。

Chapter XXV
第二十五章


In Which All the Principal Personages Think Fit to Leave Brighton
所有主要人物都认为适合离开布莱顿

Conducted to the ladies, at the Ship Inn, Dobbin assumed a jovial and rattling manner, which proved that this young officer was becoming a more consummate hypocrite every day of his life. He was trying to hide his own private feelings, first upon seeing Mrs. George Osborne in her new condition, and secondly to mask the apprehensions he entertained as to the effect which the dismal news brought down by him would certainly have upon her.
在船旅馆里，多宾在对女士们的引导下，表现出了一种快活而喋喋不休的态度，这证明了这位年轻军官每天都在成为一个更加完美的伪君子。他试图隐藏自己的私人感情，首先是看到乔治·奥斯本夫人的新状况，其次是为了掩饰他对他带来的悲惨消息肯定会给她带来的影响的担忧。

‘It is my opinion, George,’ he said, ‘that the French Emperor will be upon us, horse and foot, before three weeks are over, and will give the Duke such a dance as shall make the Peninsula appear mere child’s play. But you need not say that to Mrs. Osborne, you know. There mayn’t be any fighting on our side after all, and our business in Belgium may turn out to be a mere military occupation. Many persons think so; and Brussels is full of fine people and ladies of fashion.’ So it was agreed to represent the duty of the British army in Belgium in this harmless light to Amelia.
“我认为，乔治，”他说，“三周过后，法国皇帝就会全马出击，给公爵带来一场舞蹈，让半岛看起来不过是儿戏。”但你不必对奥斯本夫人这么说，你知道。毕竟我们这边可能没有任何战斗，我们在比利时的生意可能只是军事占领。很多人都这么认为；布鲁塞尔到处都是优秀人士和时尚女士。”因此，大家同意以这种对阿米莉亚无害的方式代表英国军队在比利时的职责。

This plot being arranged, the hypocritical Dobbin saluted Mrs. George Osborne quite gaily, tried to pay her one or two compliments relative to her new position as a bride (which compliments, it must be confessed, were exceedingly clumsy and hung fire woefully), and then fell to talking about Brighton, and the sea-air, and the gaieties of the place, and the beauties of the road and the merits of the Lightning coach and horses—all in a manner quite incomprehensible to Amelia, and very amusing to Rebecca, who was watching the Captain, as indeed she watched every one near whom she came.
这个情节安排好后，虚伪的多宾非常高兴地向乔治·奥斯本夫人致敬，试图对她作为新娘的新地位表示一两句恭维（必须承认，这种恭维非常笨拙，而且可悲地挂在火上），然后开始谈论布莱顿、海风、这个地方的欢乐、道路的美丽以及闪电马车和马匹的优点——所有这些对阿米莉亚来说都是难以理解的，但对阿米莉亚来说却很有趣。丽贝卡注视着船长，正如她注视着她所靠近的每一个人一样。

Little Amelia, it must be owned, had rather a mean opinion of her husband’s friend, Captain Dobbin. He lisped—he was very plain and homely-looking: and exceedingly awkward and ungainly. She liked him for his attachment to her husband (to be sure there was very little merit in that), and she thought George was most generous and kind in extending his friendship to his brother officer. George had mimicked Dobbin’s lisp and queer manners many times to her, though to do him justice, he always spoke most highly of his friend’s good qualities. In her little day of triumph, and not knowing him intimately as yet, she made light of honest William—and he knew her opinions of him quite well, and acquiesced in them very humbly. A time came when she knew him better, and changed her notions regarding him; but that was distant as yet.
必须承认，小阿米莉亚对她丈夫的朋友多宾船长有相当刻薄的看法。他口齿不清——他相貌平平，相貌平平，但又极其笨拙和笨拙。她喜欢他对她丈夫的依恋（当然这没有什么优点），她认为乔治向他的军官兄弟表达了他的友谊是最慷慨和善良的。乔治曾多次向她模仿多宾的口齿不清和古怪的举止，但公平地说，他总是高度评价他朋友的优良品质。在她胜利的那一天，由于对他的了解还不深，她对诚实的威廉不屑一顾——而他非常了解她对他的看法，并非常谦虚地默许了这些看法。有一天，她对他有了更多的了解，也改变了对他的看法。但那还很遥远。

As for Rebecca, Captain Dobbin had not been two hours in the ladies’ company before she understood his secret perfectly. She did not like him, and feared him privately; nor was he very much prepossessed in her favour. He was so honest, that her arts and cajoleries did not affect him, and he shrank from her with instinctive repulsion. And, as she was by no means so far superior to her sex as to be above jealousy, she disliked him the more for his adoration of Amelia. Nevertheless, she was very respectful and cordial in her manner towards him. A friend to the Osbornes! a friend to her dearest benefactors! She vowed she should always love him sincerely: she remembered him quite well on the Vauxhall night, as she told Amelia archly, and she made a little fun of him when the two ladies went to dress for dinner. Rawdon Crawley paid scarcely any attention to Dobbin, looking upon him as a good-natured nincompoop and under-bred City man. Jos patronised him with much dignity.
至于丽贝卡，多宾船长在女士们的陪伴下不到两个小时，她就完全明白了他的秘密。她不喜欢他，私下里还害怕他。他也不太喜欢她。他是如此诚实，以至于她的花言巧语和哄骗都没有影响到他，他出于本能的厌恶而退缩了。而且，由于她绝不比同性优越到可以不嫉妒的地步，所以她更不喜欢他对阿米莉亚的崇拜。尽管如此，她对他的态度还是非常恭敬和亲切的。奥斯本家族的朋友！她最亲爱的恩人的朋友！她发誓她应该永远真诚地爱他：她很清楚地记得沃克斯豪尔之夜的他，正如她调皮地告诉阿米莉亚一样，当两位女士去盛装去吃晚饭时，她还取笑了他。罗登·克劳利几乎没有注意到多宾，认为他是一个心地善良、缺乏教养的城市人。乔斯非常有尊严地庇护他。

When George and Dobbin were alone in the latter’s room, to which George had followed him, Dobbin took from his desk the letter which he had been charged by Mr. Osborne to deliver to his son. ‘It’s not in my father’s handwriting,’ said George, looking rather alarmed; nor was it: the letter was from Mr. Osborne’s lawyer, and to the following effect:
当乔治和多宾单独呆在后者的房间里时，乔治跟着他来到了房间，多宾从办公桌上取出了奥斯本先生吩咐他交给儿子的信。 “这不是我父亲的笔迹，”乔治说道，看上去相当惊慌。也不是：这封信是奥斯本先生的律师写的，其大意如下：

‘Bedford Row, May 7, 1815.
‘贝德福德街，1815 年 5 月 7 日。

‘SIR,
'先生，

‘I am commissioned by Mr. Osborne to inform you, that he abides by the determination which he before expressed to you, and that in consequence of the marriage which you have been pleased to contract, he ceases to consider you henceforth as a member of his family. This determination is final and irrevocable.
“我受奥斯本先生委托通知您，他遵守他之前向您表达的决定，并且由于您愿意缔结婚姻，他从此不再将您视为他的家庭。该决定是最终的且不可撤销的。

‘Although the monies expended upon you in your minority, and the bills which you have drawn upon him so unsparingly of late years, far exceed in amount the sum to which you are entitled in your own right (being the third part of the fortune of your mother, the late Mrs. Osborne and which reverted to you at her decease, and to Miss Jane Osborne and Miss Maria Frances Osborne); yet I am instructed by Mr. Osborne to say, that he waives all claim upon your estate, and that the sum of 2,000 pounds, 4 per cent. annuities, at the value of the day (being your one-third share of the sum of 6,000 pounds), shall be paid over to yourself or your agents upon your receipt for the same, by
尽管你在你未成年的时候花在你身上的钱，以及你近年来如此不吝惜地向他支取的账单，在数额上远远超过了你凭自己的权利有权得到的数额（是你的财产的三分之一）您的母亲，已故的奥斯本夫人，在她去世后归还给您，以及简·奥斯本小姐和玛丽亚·弗朗西斯·奥斯本小姐）；然而，奥斯本先生指示我说，他放弃对您的遗产的所有要求，即 2,000 英镑，即 4%。年金，按当天的价值（即 6,000 英镑总额中您的三分之一），应在您收到相同金额时支付给您自己或您的代理人，通过

‘Your obedient Servt.,
‘你听话的仆人，

‘S. HIGGS.
‘S。希格斯。

‘P.S.—Mr. Osborne desires me to say, once for all, that he declines to receive any messages, letters, or communications from you on this or any other subject.
'P.S.——先生。奥斯本希望我一劳永逸地说，他拒绝收到你关于这个或任何其他主题的任何消息、信件或通讯。

‘A pretty way you have managed the affair,’ said George, looking savagely at William Dobbin. ‘Look there, Dobbin,’ and he flung over to the latter his parent’s letter. ‘A beggar, by Jove, and all in consequence of my d—d sentimentality. Why couldn’t we have waited? A ball might have done for me in the course of the war, and may still, and how will Emmy be bettered by being left a beggar’s widow? It was all your doing. You were never easy until you had got me married and ruined. What the deuce am I to do with two thousand pounds? Such a sum won’t last two years. I’ve lost a hundred and forty to Crawley at cards and billiards since I’ve been down here. A pretty manager of a man’s matters YOU are, forsooth.’
“你把这件事处理得很好，”乔治说道，恶狠狠地看着威廉·多宾。 “看那儿，多宾，”他把父母的信扔给后者。 “一个乞丐，天哪，这一切都是我多愁善感的结果。为什么我们不能等待？在战争期间，一个舞会可能对我有好处，现在仍然如此，而艾美奖如果成为乞丐的遗孀，会有什么好处呢？都是你干的。你从来都不容易，直到你让我结婚并毁了我。我要两千英镑做什么呢？这笔钱撑不了两年。自从我来到这里以来，我在纸牌和台球比赛中已经输给了克劳利一百四十场。确实，你是一个男人事务的漂亮管理者。

‘There’s no denying that the position is a hard one,’ Dobbin replied, after reading over the letter with a blank countenance; ‘and as you say, it is partly of my making. There are some men who wouldn’t mind changing with you,’ he added, with a bitter smile. ‘How many captains in the regiment have two thousand pounds to the fore, think you? You must live on your pay till your father relents, and if you die, you leave your wife a hundred a year.’
“不可否认，这个处境很艰难，”多宾面无表情地读完这封信后回答道。 ‘正如你所说，这部分是我造成的。有些男人不介意和你一起改变。”他苦笑着补充道。 “你认为，团里有多少个队长拥有两千英镑？你必须靠工资生活，直到你父亲心软为止，如果你死了，你每年会给你的妻子留下一百美元。

‘Do you suppose a man of my habits call live on his pay and a hundred a year?’ George cried out in great anger. ‘You must be a fool to talk so, Dobbin. How the deuce am I to keep up my position in the world upon such a pitiful pittance? I can’t change my habits. I must have my comforts. I wasn’t brought up on porridge, like MacWhirter, or on potatoes, like old O’Dowd. Do you expect my wife to take in soldiers’ washing, or ride after the regiment in a baggage waggon?’
“你认为一个像我这样习惯的人靠工资生活，每年一百美元吗？”乔治非常愤怒地喊道。 “你这么说一定是个傻瓜，多宾。我怎么能靠着这么可怜的微薄的收入来维持自己在世界上的地位呢？我无法改变我的习惯。我必须有我的舒适。我不是像麦克沃特那样吃粥长大的，也不是像老奥多德那样吃土豆长大的。你希望我的妻子帮士兵洗衣服，或者开着行李车跟在团后面吗？

‘Well, well,’ said Dobbin, still good-naturedly, ‘we’ll get her a better conveyance. But try and remember that you are only a dethroned prince now, George, my boy; and be quiet whilst the tempest lasts. It won’t be for long. Let your name be mentioned in the Gazette, and I’ll engage the old father relents towards you:.’
“好吧，好吧，”多宾仍然和善地说，“我们会给她安排更好的交通工具。”但请记住，你现在只是一个被废黜的王子，乔治，我的孩子；暴风雨持续期间请保持安静。不会太久。让你的名字出现在公报上，我就会让老父亲对你心慈手软：”

‘Mentioned in the Gazette!’ George answered. ‘And in what part of it? Among the killed and wounded returns, and at the top of the list, very likely.’
“在公报上提到过！”乔治回答道。 ‘那是在哪一部分呢？很可能是在死伤者返回名单中，并且位列榜首。”

‘Psha! It will be time enough to cry out when we are hurt,’ Dobbin said. ‘And if anything happens, you know, George, I have got a little, and I am not a marrying man, and I shall not forget my godson in my will,’ he added, with a smile. Whereupon the dispute ended—as many scores of such conversations between Osborne and his friend had concluded previously—by the former declaring there was no possibility of being angry with Dobbin long, and forgiving him very generously after abusing him without cause.
‘噗！当我们受伤时，就有足够的时间哭泣了，”多宾说。 “如果发生什么事，你知道，乔治，我有一点，而且我不是一个已婚男人，我不会忘记我的遗嘱中的教子，”他微笑着补充道。于是这场争论就结束了——正如奥斯本和他的朋友之前进行过的许多这样的谈话所得出的结论一样——奥斯本宣称不可能对多宾生气太久，并且在无缘无故地辱骂多宾之后非常慷慨地原谅了他。

‘I say, Becky,’ cried Rawdon Crawley out of his dressing-room, to his lady, who was attiring herself for dinner in her own chamber.
“我说，贝基，”罗登·克劳利从他的更衣室里向他的夫人喊道，她正在自己的房间里为晚餐打扮。

‘What?’ said Becky’s shrill voice. She was looking over her shoulder in the glass. She had put on the neatest and freshest white frock imaginable, and with bare shoulders and a little necklace, and a light blue sash, she looked the image of youthful innocence and girlish happiness.
“什么？”贝基尖声问道。她回头看着镜子。她穿上了最干净、最清新的白色连衣裙，光着肩膀，戴着一条小项链，系着浅蓝色的腰带，看上去青春纯真，少女般幸福。

‘I say, what’ll Mrs. O. do, when O. goes out with the regiment?’ Crawley said coming into the room, performing a duet on his head with two huge hair-brushes, and looking out from under his hair with admiration on his pretty little wife.
“我说，当 O. 随团外出时，O. 夫人会做什么？”克劳利一边说一边走进房间，用两把巨大的发刷在头上表演二重唱，并从头发下面往外看。对他漂亮的小妻子充满钦佩。

‘I suppose she’ll cry her eyes out,’ Becky answered. ‘She has been whimpering half a dozen times, at the very notion of it, already to me.’
“我想她会哭出来的，”贝基回答道。 “她一想到这件事，就已经对我呜咽了六次了。”

‘YOU don’t care, I suppose?’ Rawdon said, half angry at his wife’s want of feeling.
“我想你不在乎吧？”罗登说道，对妻子缺乏感情感到有点生气。

‘You wretch! don’t you know that I intend to go with you,’ Becky replied. ‘Besides, you’re different. You go as General Tufto’s aide-de-camp. We don’t belong to the line,’ Mrs. Crawley said, throwing up her head with an air that so enchanted her husband that he stooped down and kissed it.
‘你这个坏蛋！你不知道我打算和你一起去吗？”贝基回答道。 ‘而且，你不一样。你作为塔夫托将军的副官。我们不属于这一行，”克劳利夫人说着，抬起头，神态让她的丈夫着迷，他弯下腰亲吻了她的头。

‘Rawdon dear—don’t you think—you’d better get that—money from Cupid, before he goes?’ Becky continued, fixing on a killing bow. She called George Osborne, Cupid. She had flattered him about his good looks a score of times already. She watched over him kindly at ecarte of a night when he would drop in to Rawdon’s quarters for a half-hour before bed-time.
“亲爱的罗登，你不觉得吗？在丘比特走之前，你最好从丘比特那里得到钱？”贝基继续说道，手里拿着一把杀人弓。她称乔治·奥斯本为丘比特。她已经无数次夸奖过他的英俊外表了。晚上睡觉前，他会去罗登的住处呆上半个小时，她会在晚上亲切地照顾他。

She had often called him a horrid dissipated wretch, and threatened to tell Emmy of his wicked ways and naughty extravagant habits. She brought his cigar and lighted it for him; she knew the effect of that manoeuvre, having practised it in former days upon Rawdon Crawley. He thought her gay, brisk, arch, distinguee, delightful. In their little drives and dinners, Becky, of course, quite outshone poor Emmy, who remained very mute and timid while Mrs. Crawley and her husband rattled away together, and Captain Crawley (and Jos after he joined the young married people) gobbled in silence.
她经常称他是一个可怕的放荡的恶棍，并威胁要告诉艾美他的邪恶行为和顽皮的奢侈习惯。她给他带来了雪茄，并为他点着了。她知道这种策略的效果，以前曾在罗登·克劳利身上练习过。他认为她快乐、活泼、圆润、杰出、令人愉快。当然，在他们的小驾车和晚餐中，贝基的表现远远超过了可怜的艾美，当克劳利夫人和她的丈夫一起喋喋不休时，艾美仍然非常沉默和胆怯，而克劳利船长（以及乔斯加入了年轻的已婚人士之后）狼吞虎咽地吃着。安静。

Emmy’s mind somehow misgave her about her friend. Rebecca’s wit, spirits, and accomplishments troubled her with a rueful disquiet. They were only a week married, and here was George already suffering ennui, and eager for others’ society! She trembled for the future. How shall I be a companion for him, she thought—so clever and so brilliant, and I such a humble foolish creature? How noble it was of him to marry me—to give up everything and stoop down to me! I ought to have refused him, only I had not the heart. I ought to have stopped at home and taken care of poor Papa. And her neglect of her parents (and indeed there was some foundation for this charge which the poor child’s uneasy conscience brought against her) was now remembered for the first time, and caused her to blush with humiliation. Oh! thought she, I have been very wicked and selfish— selfish in forgetting them in their sorrows—selfish in forcing George to marry me. I know I’m not worthy of him—I know he would have been happy without me—and yet—I tried, I tried to give him up.
艾美对她的朋友有些疑虑。丽贝卡的智慧、精神和成就让她感到一种悲伤的不安。他们结婚才一周，乔治就已经感到厌倦了，渴望与他人交往！她为未来而颤抖。我该如何成为他的伴侣，她想——如此聪明、如此才华横溢，而我却是一个如此卑微的愚蠢生物？他娶我为妻，放弃一切，向我俯首称臣，这是多么高尚啊！我本应该拒绝他的，只是我没有那个心。我应该留在家里照顾可怜的爸爸。她对父母的忽视（事实上，这个可怜的孩子不安的良心对她提出的指控是有根据的）现在第一次被记住，并让她羞愧得脸红了。哦！她想，我一直非常邪恶和自私——自私地忘记了他们的悲伤——自私地强迫乔治嫁给我。我知道我配不上他——我知道没有我他会很幸福——然而——我尝试过，我试图放弃他。

It is hard when, before seven days of marriage are over, such thoughts and confessions as these force themselves on a little bride’s mind. But so it was, and the night before Dobbin came to join these young people—on a fine brilliant moonlight night of Mayso warm and balmy that the windows were flung open to the balcony, from which George and Mrs. Crawley were gazing upon the calm ocean spread shining before them, while Rawdon and Jos were engaged at backgammon within—Amelia couched in a great chair quite neglected, and watching both these parties, felt a despair and remorse such as were bitter companions for that tender lonely soul. Scarce a week was past, and it was come to this! The future, had she regarded it, offered a dismal prospect; but Emmy was too shy, so to speak, to look to that, and embark alone on that wide sea, and unfit to navigate it without a guide and protector. I know Miss Smith has a mean opinion of her. But how many, my dear Madam, are endowed with your prodigious strength of mind?
在结婚七日结束之前，这样的想法和坦白强加在一个小新娘的脑海里是很难受的。但事情确实如此，就在多宾来加入这些年轻人的前一天晚上——在梅索月光灿烂的夜晚，温暖宜人，阳台上的窗户猛地打开，乔治和克劳利夫人正从阳台上凝视着平静的天空。海洋在他们面前闪闪发光，而罗登和乔斯正在里面玩西洋双陆棋——阿米莉亚坐在一张被忽视的大椅子上，看着这两方，感到一种绝望和悔恨，就像那个温柔孤独的灵魂的苦涩伴侣一样。才过去不到一个星期，就到了这个地步！如果她考虑一下的话，未来的前景是黯淡的。但艾美太害羞了，可以这么说，不敢看到这一点，独自踏上那片广阔的大海，而且不适合在没有向导和保护者的情况下航行。我知道史密斯小姐对她有刻薄的看法。但是，亲爱的女士，有多少人具有您那惊人的精神力量呢？

‘Gad, what a fine night, and how bright the moon is!’ George said, with a puff of his cigar, which went soaring up skywards.
“天啊，多么美好的夜晚，多么明亮的月亮啊！”乔治一边说，一边吸着雪茄，雪茄飞上了天空。

‘How delicious they smell in the open air! I adore them. Who’d think the moon was two hundred and thirty-six thousand eight hundred and forty-seven miles off?’ Becky added, gazing at that orb with a smile. ‘Isn’t it clever of me to remember that? Pooh! we learned it all at Miss Pinkerton’s! How calm the sea is, and how clear everything. I declare I can almost see the coast of France!’ and her bright green eyes streamed out, and shot into the night as if they could see through it.
‘它们在露天闻起来多么香啊！我很喜欢他们。谁会想到月球距离我们有二十三万六千八百四十七英里呢？”贝基笑着看着那个球体补充道。 ‘我记住这一点不是很聪明吗？呸!我们都是在平克顿小姐那里学到的！大海多么平静，一切多么清晰。我宣布我几乎可以看到法国海岸了！”她明亮的绿色眼睛闪闪发光，射向夜色，仿佛能看穿夜色。

‘Do you know what I intend to do one morning?’ she said; ‘I find I can swim beautifully, and some day, when my Aunt Crawley’s companion—old Briggs, you know—you remember her—that hook-nosed woman, with the long wisps of hair—when Briggs goes out to bathe, I intend to dive under her awning, and insist on a reconciliation in the water. Isn’t that a stratagem?’
“你知道我今天早上打算做什么吗？”她说。 “我发现我游得很好，有一天，当我克劳利姨妈的同伴——老布里格斯，你知道——你记得她——那个鹰钩鼻的女人，长着一缕长发——当布里格斯出去洗澡时，我打算潜入她的遮阳篷下，并坚持在水中和解。这不是计谋吗？

George burst out laughing at the idea of this aquatic meeting. ‘What’s the row there, you two?’ Rawdon shouted out, rattling the box. Amelia was making a fool of herself in an absurd hysterical manner, and retired to her own room to whimper in private.
乔治一想到这次水上聚会就哈哈大笑。 “你们两个，在吵什么？”罗登大声喊道，把箱子弄得格格作响。阿米莉亚以一种荒唐歇斯底里的方式出洋相，然后回到自己的房间私下哭泣。

Our history is destined in this chapter to go backwards and forwards in a very irresolute manner seemingly, and having conducted our story to to-morrow presently, we shall immediately again have occasion to step back to yesterday, so that the whole of the tale may get a hearing. As you behold at her Majesty’s drawing-room, the ambassadors’ and high dignitaries’ carriages whisk off from a private door, while Captain Jones’s ladies are waiting for their fly: as you see in the Secretary of the Treasury’s antechamber, a half-dozen of petitioners waiting patiently for their audience, and called out one by one, when suddenly an Irish member or some eminent personage enters the apartment, and instantly walks into Mr. UnderSecretary over the heads of all the people present: so in the conduct of a tale, the romancer is obliged to exercise this most partial sort of justice. Although all the little incidents must be heard, yet they must be put off when the great events make their appearance; and surely such a circumstance as that which brought Dobbin to Brighton, viz., the ordering out of the Guards and the line to Belgium, and the mustering of the allied armies in that country under the command of his Grace the Duke of Wellington—such a dignified circumstance as that, I say, was entitled to the pas over all minor occurrences whereof this history is composed mainly, and hence a little trifling disarrangement and disorder was excusable and becoming. We have only now advanced in time so far beyond Chapter XXII as to have got our various characters up into their dressing-rooms before the dinner, which took place as usual on the day of Dobbin’s arrival.
我们的历史注定在这一章里以一种看似很犹豫的方式来回走动，现在我们的故事已经讲到了明天，我们马上就有机会回到昨天，这样整个故事就可以了。举行听证会。当你在女王陛下的客厅里看到的时候，大使和高级政要的马车从私人门里飞驰而出，而琼斯船长的女士们正在等待她们的飞行：正如你在财政部长的前厅里看到的那样，六辆一群请愿者耐心地等待着他们的听众，并一一喊出，突然一名爱尔兰议员或一些知名人士走进公寓，并立即越过在场所有人的头顶走进副国务卿先生：因此，在在故事中，浪漫主义者有义务行使这种最片面的正义。小事虽然要听，但大事一发生，就必须推迟；当然，像将多宾带到布莱顿那样的情况，即命令出动卫队和前往比利时的防线，以及在威灵顿公爵陛下的指挥下在该国集结盟军——这样的情况我说，这是一种庄严的情况，有权对这段历史主要构成的所有次要事件享有通行权，因此，一点点琐碎的混乱和混乱是可以原谅的，也是合理的。现在我们的时间已经远远超出了第二十二章，以便在晚宴之前让我们的各个角色进入他们的更衣室，晚宴照常在多宾到来的那天进行。

George was too humane or too much occupied with the tie of his neckcloth to convey at once all the news to Amelia which his comrade had brought with him from London. He came into her room, however, holding the attorney’s letter in his hand, and with so solemn and important an air that his wife, always ingeniously on the watch for calamity, thought the worst was about to befall, and running up to her husband, besought her dearest George to tell her everything—he was ordered abroad; there would be a battle next week—she knew there would.
乔治太仁慈了，或者太忙于系领带，无法立即将他的战友从伦敦带来的所有消息传达给阿米莉亚。然而，他走进她的房间，手里拿着律师函，神情如此庄严而重要，以至于他的妻子总是巧妙地警惕着灾难，以为最坏的事情即将降临，于是跑向她的丈夫，恳求她最亲爱的乔治告诉她一切——他被命令出国；下周将会有一场战斗——她知道会​​有的。

Dearest George parried the question about foreign service, and with a melancholy shake of the head said, ‘No, Emmy; it isn’t that: it’s not myself I care about: it’s you. I have had bad news from my father. He refuses any communication with me; he has flung us off; and leaves us to poverty. I can rough it well enough; but you, my dear, how will you bear it? read here.’ And he handed her over the letter.
最亲爱的乔治回避了有关外交服务的问题，并忧郁地摇摇头说：“不，艾美奖；”不是这样：我关心的不是我自己：而是你。我从父亲那里得到了坏消息。他拒绝与我进行任何交流；他把我们甩掉了；并使我们陷入贫困。我可以应付得很好；但你，亲爱的，你将如何忍受？读这里。”然后他把信递给了她。

Amelia, with a look of tender alarm in her eyes, listened to her noble hero as he uttered the above generous sentiments, and sitting down on the bed, read the letter which George gave her with such a pompous martyr-like air. Her face cleared up as she read the document, however. The idea of sharing poverty and privation in company with the beloved object is, as we have before said, far from being disagreeable to a warm-hearted woman. The notion was actually pleasant to little Amelia. Then, as usual, she was ashamed of herself for feeling happy at such an indecorous moment, and checked her pleasure, saying demurely, ‘O, George, how your poor heart must bleed at the idea of being separated from your papa!’
阿米莉亚眼中带着温柔的惊恐，听着她高贵的英雄说出了上述慷慨的感言，然后坐在床上，以烈士般的浮夸的神情读着乔治给她的信。然而，当她读到这份文件时，她的脸色变得清晰起来。正如我们之前所说，与心爱的对象一起分享贫穷和匮乏的想法对于一个热心的女人来说绝非令人不快。这个想法实际上让小阿米莉亚很高兴。然后，像往常一样，她为自己在如此不体面的时刻感到高兴而感到羞愧，并克制住自己的快乐，故作严肃地说：“哦，乔治，一想到要与爸爸分开，你可怜的心一定会流血！”

‘It does,’ said George, with an agonised countenance.
“确实如此，”乔治满脸痛苦地说。

‘But he can’t be angry with you long,’ she continued. ‘Nobody could, I’m sure. He must forgive you, my dearest, kindest husband. O, I shall never forgive myself if he does not.’
“但他不会对你生气太久，”她继续说道。 “我确信没有人能做到。他必须原谅你，我最亲爱、最善良的丈夫。哦，如果他不这样做，我永远不会原谅自己。

‘What vexes me, my poor Emmy, is not my misfortune, but yours,’ George said. ‘I don’t care for a little poverty; and I think, without vanity, I’ve talents enough to make my own way.’
乔治说：“可怜的艾美奖，让我烦恼的不是我的不幸，而是你的不幸。” ‘我不在乎一点点贫穷；我认为，没有虚荣心，我有足够的天赋来开创自己的道路。

‘That you have,’ interposed his wife, who thought that war should cease, and her husband should be made a general instantly.
“你已经做到了，”他的妻子插嘴道，她认为战争应该停止，她的丈夫应该立即成为将军。

‘Yes, I shall make my way as well as another,’ Osborne went on; ‘but you, my dear girl, how can I bear your being deprived of the comforts and station in society which my wife had a right to expect? My dearest girl in barracks; the wife of a soldier in a marching regiment; subject to all sorts of annoyance and privation! It makes me miserable.’
“是的，我会像其他人一样走自己的路，”奥斯本继续说道。 “但是你，我亲爱的女孩，我怎么能忍受你被剥夺了我妻子有权期望的舒适和社会地位呢？”我在军营里最亲爱的女孩；行军团士兵的妻子；遭受各种烦恼和匮乏！这让我很痛苦。

Emmy, quite at ease, as this was her husband’s only cause of disquiet, took his hand, and with a radiant face and smile began to warble that stanza from the favourite song of ‘Wapping Old Stairs,’ in which the heroine, after rebuking her Tom for inattention, promises ‘his trousers to mend, and his grog too to make,’ if he will be constant and kind, and not forsake her. ‘Besides,’ she said, after a pause, during which she looked as pretty and happy as any young woman need, ‘isn’t two thousand pounds an immense deal of money, George?’
艾美很轻松，因为这是她丈夫唯一不安的原因，她握住了他的手，脸上容光焕发，微笑着开始吟唱《Wapping Old Stairs》中最喜欢的歌曲中的那节，在这首歌中，女主角在斥责之后她因汤姆疏忽大意而向她保证，如果他始终如一、善良，不抛弃她，“他的裤子会补，他的烈酒也会制作”。 “此外，”她停顿了一下后说道，“两千英镑不是一笔巨款吗，乔治？”

George laughed at her naivete; and finally they went down to dinner, Amelia clinging to George’s arm, still warbling the tune of ‘Wapping Old Stairs,’ and more pleased and light of mind than she had been for some days past.
乔治嘲笑她的天真。最后他们下楼去吃晚饭，阿米莉亚紧紧抓住乔治的手臂，仍然哼着《摇晃旧楼梯》的曲调，比过去几天更加高兴和轻松。

Thus the repast, which at length came off, instead of being dismal, was an exceedingly brisk and merry one. The excitement of the campaign counteracted in George’s mind the depression occasioned by the disinheriting letter. Dobbin still kept up his character of rattle. He amused the company with accounts of the army in Belgium; where nothing but fetes and gaiety and fashion were going on. Then, having a particular end in view, this dexterous captain proceeded to describe Mrs. Major O’Dowd packing her own and her Major’s wardrobe, and how his best epaulets had been stowed into a tea canister, whilst her own famous yellow turban, with the bird of paradise wrapped in brown paper, was locked up in the Major’s tin cocked-hat case, and wondered what effect it would have at the French king’s court at Ghent, or the great military balls at Brussels.
这样，这顿饭终于结束了，不但没有令人沮丧，反而变得异常轻松愉快。竞选活动的兴奋抵消了乔治心中因那封剥夺继承权的信而引起的沮丧。多宾仍然保持着他喋喋不休的性格。他用比利时军队的经历逗乐了大家。那里除了节日、欢乐和时尚之外什么都没有。然后，有了一个特定的目标，这位灵巧的船长开始描述奥多德少校夫人收拾她自己和她少校的衣柜，以及他最好的肩章如何被装进一个茶罐，而她自己著名的黄色头巾，与用牛皮纸包裹的天堂鸟，被锁在少校的锡三角帽盒里，想知道它会对根特的法国国王宫廷或布鲁塞尔的大型军事舞会产生什么影响。

‘Ghent! Brussels!’ cried out Amelia with a sudden shock and start. ‘Is the regiment ordered away, George—is it ordered away?’ A look of terror came over the sweet smiling face, and she clung to George as by an instinct.
‘根特！布鲁塞尔！”阿米莉亚突然大吃一惊，大吃一惊。 “乔治，军团被命令离开了——被命令离开了吗？”那张甜美的微笑脸上浮现出恐惧的表情，她本能地紧紧抓住乔治。

‘Don’t be afraid, dear,’ he said good-naturedly; ‘it is but a twelve hours’ passage. It won’t hurt you. You shall go, too, Emmy.’
“别害怕，亲爱的，”他和蔼地说。 “不过十二个小时而已。”它不会伤害你。你也该走，艾美。

‘I intend to go,’ said Becky. ‘I’m on the staff. General Tufto is a great flirt of mine. Isn’t he, Rawdon?’ Rawdon laughed out with his usual roar. William Dobbin flushed up quite red. ‘She can’t go,’ he said; ‘think of the—of the danger,’ he was going to add; but had not all his conversation during dinner-time tended to prove there was none? He became very confused and silent.
“我打算去，”贝基说。 ‘我是工作人员。塔夫托将军是我的调情高手。是不是，罗登？”罗登像往常一样大笑起来。威廉·多宾的脸涨得通红。 “她不能走，”他说。 “想想——想想危险，”他要补充道；但他在晚餐时的所有谈话难道不都在证明根本不存在吗？他变得非常困惑和沉默。

‘I must and will go,’ Amelia cried with the greatest spirit; and George, applauding her resolution, patted her under the chin, and asked all the persons present if they ever saw such a termagant of a wife, and agreed that the lady should bear him company. ‘We’ll have Mrs. O’Dowd to chaperon you,’ he said. What cared she so long as her husband was near her? Thus somehow the bitterness of a parting was juggled away. Though war and danger were in store, war and danger might not befall for months to come. There was a respite at any rate, which made the timid little Amelia almost as happy as a full reprieve would have done, and which even Dobbin owned in his heart was very welcome. For, to be permitted to see her was now the greatest privilege and hope of his life, and he thought with himself secretly how he would watch and protect her. I wouldn’t have let her go if I had been married to her, he thought. But George was the master, and his friend did not think fit to remonstrate.
“我必须而且一定会去，”阿米莉亚精神抖擞地喊道。乔治对她的决心表示赞赏，拍拍她的下巴，问在场的所有人是否见过如此粗暴的妻子，并同意这位女士应该陪他。 “我们会让奥多德夫人来陪伴你，”他说。只要她的丈夫在她身边，她又何必在乎呢？就这样，离别时的痛苦不知怎么地就消失了。尽管战争和危险即将来临，但战争和危险可能在未来几个月内不会降临。无论如何，有一个喘息的机会，这让胆怯的小阿米莉亚几乎像完全缓刑一样高兴，甚至连多宾心里也非常欢迎这一点。因为，现在能够见到她，是他一生中最大的荣幸和希望，他暗自想着要如何守护和保护她。如果我嫁给了她，我就不会放她走，他想。但乔治是主人，他的朋友认为不宜提出抗议。

Putting her arm round her friend’s waist, Rebecca at length carried Amelia off from the dinner-table where so much business of importance had been discussed, and left the gentlemen in a highly exhilarated state, drinking and talking very gaily.
丽贝卡用手臂搂住朋友的腰，最后把阿米莉亚从餐桌上抱起来，餐桌上已经讨论了许多重要的事情，让先生们处于高度兴奋的状态，愉快地喝酒聊天。

In the course of the evening Rawdon got a little family-note from his wife, which, although he crumpled it up and burnt it instantly in the candle, we had the good luck to read over Rebecca’s shoulder. ‘Great news,’ she wrote. ‘Mrs. Bute is gone. Get the money from Cupid tonight, as he’ll be off to-morrow most likely. Mind this.— R.’ So when the little company was about adjourning to coffee in the women’s apartment, Rawdon touched Osborne on the elbow, and said gracefully, ‘I say, Osborne, my boy, if quite convenient, I’ll trouble you for that ‘ere small trifle.’ It was not quite convenient, but nevertheless George gave him a considerable present instalment in bank-notes from his pocket-book, and a bill on his agents at a week’s date, for the remaining sum.
那天晚上，罗登从他的妻子那里收到了一张家庭便条，尽管他把它揉成一团并立即在蜡烛中烧掉了，但我们还是有幸从丽贝卡的肩膀上读到了。 “好消息，”她写道。 '太太。布特不见了。今晚从丘比特那里拿钱，因为他很可能明天就会离开。请注意这一点。——R。”因此，当这小群人准备在女士公寓喝咖啡时，罗登碰了碰奥斯本的肘部，优雅地说：“我说，奥斯本，我的孩子，如果方便的话，我会麻烦你的。”虽然不太方便，但乔治还是从他的皮夹里掏出了一大笔现金分期付款，并在一周后给了他的代理人一张账单，以支付剩余的金额。

This matter arranged, George, and Jos, and Dobbin, held a council of war over their cigars, and agreed that a general move should be made for London in Jos’s open carriage the next day. Jos, I think, would have preferred staying until Rawdon Crawley quitted Brighton, but Dobbin and George overruled him, and he agreed to carry the party to town, and ordered four horses, as became his dignity. With these they set off in state, after breakfast, the next day. Amelia had risen very early in the morning, and packed her little trunks with the greatest alacrity, while Osborne lay in bed deploring that she had not a maid to help her. She was only too glad, however, to perform this office for herself. A dim uneasy sentiment about Rebecca filled her mind already; and although they kissed each other most tenderly at parting, yet we know what jealousy is; and Mrs. Amelia possessed that among other virtues of her sex.
此事安排妥当后，乔治、乔斯和多宾就他们的雪茄召开了一次军事会议，一致同意第二天乘坐乔斯的敞篷马车前往伦敦。我想，乔斯更愿意留下来，直到罗登·克劳利离开布莱顿，但多宾和乔治否决了他，他同意带着队伍进城，并订购了四匹马，这成了他的尊严。第二天，早餐后，他们带着这些东西正式出发了。阿米莉亚一大早就起床了，并以最快的速度收拾好她的小箱子，而奥斯本则躺在床上，为没有女仆帮助她而感到遗憾。然而，她非常高兴能够亲自担任这个职务。她的心里已经充满了关于丽贝卡的一种隐约的不安情绪。尽管他们在分别时最温柔地亲吻对方，但我们知道什么是嫉妒；阿米莉亚夫人拥有这一女性的其他美德。

Besides these characters who are coming and going away, we must remember that there were some other old friends of ours at Brighton; Miss Crawley, namely, and the suite in attendance upon her. Now, although Rebecca and her husband were but at a few stones’ throw of the lodgings which the invalid Miss Crawley occupied, the old lady’s door remained as pitilessly closed to them as it had been heretofore in London. As long as she remained by the side of her sister-inlaw, Mrs. Bute Crawley took care that her beloved Matilda should not be agitated by a meeting with her nephew. When the spinster took her drive, the faithful Mrs. Bute sate beside her in the carriage. When Miss Crawley took the air in a chair, Mrs. Bute marched on one side of the vehicle, whilst honest Briggs occupied the other wing. And if they met Rawdon and his wife by chance—although the former constantly and obsequiously took off his hat, the Miss-Crawley party passed him by with such a frigid and killing indifference, that Rawdon began to despair.
除了这些来来去去的人物之外，我们必须记住，我们在布莱顿还有其他一些老朋友；克劳利小姐，以及侍候她的随从。现在，虽然丽贝卡和她的丈夫距离病弱的克劳利小姐住的住所只有几步之遥，但老太太的门仍然无情地对他们关闭，就像迄今为止在伦敦一样。只要她留在嫂子身边，布特·克劳利夫人就会小心翼翼地防止她心爱的玛蒂尔达因为与侄子的会面而激动不已。当老处女接她的车时，忠诚的布特夫人坐在马车里的她旁边。当克劳利小姐坐在椅子上喘气时，布特夫人在车的一侧行进，而诚实的布里格斯则占据了另一侧。如果他们偶然遇见了罗登和他的妻子——尽管罗登不断地、谄媚地摘下帽子，克劳利小姐一行人却以如此冷漠和致命的冷漠从他身边经过，罗登开始绝望。

‘We might as well be in London as here,’ Captain Rawdon often said, with a downcast air.
“我们就像在伦敦一样，”罗登船长经常说道，语气沮丧。

‘A comfortable inn in Brighton is better than a spunging-house in Chancery Lane,’ his wife answered, who was of a more cheerful temperament. ‘Think of those two aides-de-camp of Mr. Moses, the sheriff’s-officer, who watched our lodging for a week. Our friends here are very stupid, but Mr. Jos and Captain Cupid are better companions than Mr. Moses’s men, Rawdon, my love.’
“布莱顿舒适的旅馆比大法官巷的旅馆好。”他的妻子回答道，她的性情比较开朗。 “想想治安官摩西先生的两名副官，他们监视了我们的住所一周。我们这里的朋友都很愚蠢，但乔斯先生和丘比特船长是比摩西先生的手下更好的伙伴，罗登，我的爱人。

‘I wonder the writs haven’t followed me down here,’ Rawdon continued, still desponding.
“我想知道令状没有跟着我到这里来，”罗登继续说道，仍然很沮丧。

‘When they do, we’ll find means to give them the slip,’ said dauntless little Becky, and further pointed out to her husband the great comfort and advantage of meeting Jos and Osborne, whose acquaintance had brought to Rawdon Crawley a most timely little supply of ready money.
“当他们这样做的时候，我们会想办法让他们溜走，”无畏的小贝基说，并进一步向她的丈夫指出了见到乔斯和奥斯本的巨大安慰和好处，他们的相识给罗登·克劳利带来了一个最及时的机会。现货供应很少。

‘It will hardly be enough to pay the inn bill,’ grumbled the Guardsman.
“这根本不够支付旅店的账单。”卫兵抱怨道。

‘Why need we pay it?’ said the lady, who had an answer for everything.
“我们为什么要付钱？”那位女士说道，她对一切问题都有答案。

Through Rawdon’s valet, who still kept up a trifling acquaintance with the male inhabitants of Miss Crawley’s servants’ hall, and was instructed to treat the coachman to drink whenever they met, old Miss Crawley’s movements were pretty well known by our young couple; and Rebecca luckily bethought herself of being unwell, and of calling in the same apothecary who was in attendance upon the spinster, so that their information was on the whole tolerably complete. Nor was Miss Briggs, although forced to adopt a hostile attitude, secretly inimical to Rawdon and his wife. She was naturally of a kindly and forgiving disposition. Now that the cause of jealousy was removed, her dislike for Rebecca disappeared also, and she remembered the latter’s invariable good words and good humour. And, indeed, she and Mrs. Firkin, the lady’s-maid, and the whole of Miss Crawley’s household, groaned under the tyranny of the triumphant Mrs. Bute.
罗登的贴身男仆与克劳利小姐仆人大厅的男性居民还保持着一点点的了解，并被指示每次见面都要请车夫喝酒，老克劳利小姐的一举一动对我们这对年轻夫妇来说是相当熟悉的。丽贝卡幸运地想到自己身体不舒服，并请来了照顾老处女的同一位药剂师，这样他们的信息总体上还算完整。布里格斯小姐虽然被迫采取敌对态度，但也并非暗地里对罗登夫妇怀有敌意。她生性善良、宽容。现在嫉妒的原因消除了，她对丽贝卡的厌恶也消失了，她还记得后者一贯的好话和好脾气。确实，她和女仆菲尔金夫人，以及克劳利小姐的全家，都在得意洋洋的布特夫人的暴政下呻吟。

As often will be the case, that good but imperious woman pushed her advantages too far, and her successes quite unmercifully. She had in the course of a few weeks brought the invalid to such a state of helpless docility, that the poor soul yielded herself entirely to her sister’s orders, and did not even dare to complain of her slavery to Briggs or Firkin. Mrs. Bute measured out the glasses of wine which Miss Crawley was daily allowed to take, with irresistible accuracy, greatly to the annoyance of Firkin and the butler, who found themselves deprived of control over even the sherry-bottle. She apportioned the sweetbreads, jellies, chickens; their quantity and order. Night and noon and morning she brought the abominable drinks ordained by the Doctor, and made her patient swallow them with so affecting an obedience that Firkin said ‘my poor Missus du take her physic like a lamb.’ She prescribed the drive in the carriage or the ride in the chair, and, in a word, ground down the old lady in her convalescence in such a way as only belongs to your proper-managing, motherly moral woman. If ever the patient faintly resisted, and pleaded for a little bit more dinner or a little drop less medicine, the nurse threatened her with instantaneous death, when Miss Crawley instantly gave in. ‘She’s no spirit left in her,’ Firkin remarked to Briggs; ‘she ain’t ave called me a fool these three weeks.’ Finally, Mrs. Bute had made up her mind to dismiss the aforesaid honest lady’s-maid, Mr. Bowls the large confidential man, and Briggs herself, and to send for her daughters from the Rectory, previous to removing the dear invalid bodily to Queen’s Crawley, when an odious accident happened which called her away from duties so pleasing. The Reverend Bute Crawley, her husband, riding home one night, fell with his horse and broke his collar-bone. Fever and inflammatory symptoms set in, and Mrs. Bute was forced to leave Sussex for Hampshire. As soon as ever Bute was restored, she promised to return to her dearest friend, and departed, leaving the strongest injunctions with the household regarding their behaviour to their mistress; and as soon as she got into the Southampton coach, there was such a jubilee and sense of relief in all Miss Crawley’s house, as the company of persons assembled there had not experienced for many a week before. That very day Miss Crawley left off her afternoon dose of medicine: that afternoon Bowls opened an independent bottle of sherry for himself and Mrs. Firkin: that night Miss Crawley and Miss Briggs indulged in a game of piquet instead of one of Porteus’s sermons. It was as in the old nurserystory, when the stick forgot to beat the dog, and the whole course of events underwent a peaceful and happy revolution.
通常情况下，这位善良但专横的女人将自己的优势发挥得太过分，而她的成功也相当无情。在几周的时间里，她让病人变得如此无助的温顺状态，可怜的灵魂完全屈服于她姐姐的命令，甚至不敢抱怨她对布里格斯或菲尔金的奴役。布特夫人以令人无法抗拒的精确度量出了克劳利小姐每天被允许喝的酒杯，这让菲尔金和管家大为恼火，他们发现自己甚至连雪利酒瓶都失去了控制权。她分配了牛杂碎、果冻、鸡肉；他们的数量和订单。晚上、中午和早上，她都带来了医生指定的令人厌恶的饮料，让她的病人装出一副顺从的样子吞下它们，以至于菲尔金说“我可怜的夫人像羔羊一样服用她的药物。”她规定了马车上的驾驶或坐在椅子上，总之，把正在康复中的老太太压垮，只属于你管理得当、有慈母道德的女人。如果病人有微弱的抵抗，并恳求多吃一点晚餐或少滴一点药，护士就会威胁她立即死亡，克劳利小姐立即屈服。“她已经没有精神了，”菲尔金对布里格斯说。 ; “这三个星期以来，她没有叫我傻瓜。”最后，布特夫人决定解雇上述诚实的女仆、大机密的鲍尔斯先生和布里格斯本人，并派人去请人。她的女儿们离开了教区长，在将亲爱的病人转移到女王克劳利之前，当时发生了一场可恶的事故，使她无法履行令人愉快的职责。 她的丈夫布特·克劳利牧师一天晚上骑马回家时，随马摔倒，锁骨骨折。比特夫人出现了发烧和炎症症状，被迫离开苏塞克斯前往汉普郡。布特一康复，她就答应回到她最亲爱的朋友身边，然后就离开了，并给女主人留下了关于家人行为的最强烈的禁令。她一坐上南安普顿的客车，整个克劳利小姐的家里就洋溢着一种喜庆和轻松的感觉，聚集在那里的人们已经好几个星期没有经历过这种感觉了。就在那天，克劳利小姐停止了下午的服药：那天下午，鲍尔斯为自己和菲尔金夫人开了一瓶独立的雪利酒：那天晚上，克劳利小姐和布里格斯小姐沉迷于一场皮奎特游戏，而不是波特斯的一次布道。就像古老的童话里一样，棍棒忘了打狗，整个事件发生了一场和平而快乐的革命。

At a very early hour in the morning, twice or thrice a week, Miss Briggs used to betake herself to a bathing-machine, and disport in the water in a flannel gown and an oilskin cap. Rebecca, as we have seen, was aware of this circumstance, and though she did not attempt to storm Briggs as she had threatened, and actually dive into that lady’s presence and surprise her under the sacredness of the awning, Mrs. Rawdon determined to attack Briggs as she came away from her bath, refreshed and invigorated by her dip, and likely to be in good humour.
布里格斯小姐每周都会在清晨很早的时候，穿着法兰绒长袍，戴着油布帽，来到洗澡机前，在水中畅游。正如我们所看到的，丽贝卡意识到了这种情况，尽管她没有像她威胁的那样试图攻击布里格斯，而是真正潜入那位女士的存在并在神圣的遮阳篷下给她一个惊喜，但罗登夫人决定攻击布里格斯洗完澡出来后，神清气爽、精力充沛，心情也很不错。

So getting up very early the next morning, Becky brought the telescope in their sitting-room, which faced the sea, to bear upon the bathing-machines on the beach; saw Briggs arrive, enter her box; and put out to sea; and was on the shore just as the nymph of whom she came in quest stepped out of the little caravan on to the shingles. It was a pretty picture: the beach; the bathing-women’s faces; the long line of rocks and building were blushing and bright in the sunshine. Rebecca wore a kind, tender smile on her face, and was holding out her pretty white hand as Briggs emerged from the box. What could Briggs do but accept the salutation?
于是第二天一早，贝基就起床了，把面朝大海的客厅里的望远镜搬到了海滩上的沐浴机上。看到布里格斯到来，进入她的包厢；并出海；就在她上岸时，她所要寻找的仙女走出小商队，踏上了木瓦片。那是一幅美丽的图画：海滩；沐浴女人们的脸；长长的一排岩石和建筑在阳光下显得通红而明亮。当布里格斯从包厢里出来时，丽贝卡脸上挂着友善、温柔的微笑，伸出了她漂亮白皙的手。布里格斯除了接受这个称呼还能做什么呢？

‘Miss Sh—Mrs. Crawley,’ she said.
‘史小姐——史太太克劳利，”她说。

Mrs. Crawley seized her hand, pressed it to her heart, and with a sudden impulse, flinging her arms round Briggs, kissed her affectionately. ‘Dear, dear friend!’ she said, with a touch of such natural feeling, that Miss Briggs of course at once began to melt, and even the bathing-woman was mollified.
克劳利夫人抓住她的手，把它按在胸前，突然一冲动，用双臂搂住布里格斯，深情地吻了她。 “亲爱的，亲爱的朋友！”她带着一种如此自然的感觉说道，布里格斯小姐当然立刻开始融化，甚至连洗澡的女人也平静下来。

Rebecca found no difficulty in engaging Briggs in a long, intimate, and delightful conversation. Everything that had passed since the morning of Becky’s sudden departure from Miss Crawley’s house in Park Lane up to the present day, and Mrs. Bute’s happy retreat, was discussed and described by Briggs. All Miss Crawley’s symptoms, and the particulars of her illness and medical treatment, were narrated by the confidante with that fulness and accuracy which women delight in. About their complaints and their doctors do ladies ever tire of talking to each other? Briggs did not on this occasion; nor did Rebecca weary of listening. She was thankful, truly thankful, that the dear kind Briggs, that the faithful, the invaluable Firkin, had been permitted to remain with their benefactress through her illness. Heaven bless her! though she, Rebecca, had seemed to act undutifully towards Miss Crawley; yet was not her fault a natural and excusable one? Could she help giving her hand to the man who had won her heart? Briggs, the sentimental, could only turn up her eyes to heaven at this appeal, and heave a sympathetic sigh, and think that she, too, had given away her affections long years ago, and own that Rebecca was no very great criminal.
丽贝卡毫不费力地与布里格斯进行了一次漫长、亲密、愉快的谈话。布里格斯讨论和描述了从贝基突然离开克劳利小姐在公园巷的家到现在所发生的一切，以及布特夫人的快乐撤退所发生的一切。克劳利小姐的所有症状，以及她的病情和治疗的细节，都由这位红颜知己以女性们喜欢的那种全面而准确的方式讲述出来。关于她们的抱怨和她们的医生，女士们是否厌倦了互相交谈？布里格斯这次没有这么做。丽贝卡也不厌烦地听着。她很感激，真的很感激，亲爱的布里格斯，忠实的，无价的菲尔金，被允许与他们的恩人一起度过她的病。上天保佑她！尽管她，丽贝卡，似乎对克劳利小姐表现得不负责任；但她的过错不是很自然、可以原谅的吗？她能不能把自己的手交给那个让她心动的男人呢？多愁善感的布里格斯听了这番呼吁，只能仰天长叹，同情地叹了口气，心想自己也早在多年前就已经放弃了自己的感情，承认丽贝卡并不是什么大罪人。

‘Can I ever forget her who so befriended the friendless orphan? No, though she has cast me off,’ the latter said, ‘I shall never cease to love her, and I would devote my life to her service. As my own benefactress, as my beloved Rawdon’s adored relative, I love and admire Miss Crawley, dear Miss Briggs, beyond any woman in the world, and next to her I love all those who are faithful to her. I would never have treated Miss Crawley’s faithful friends as that odious designing Mrs. Bute has done. Rawdon, who was all heart,’ Rebecca continued, ‘although his outward manners might seem rough and careless, had said a hundred times, with tears in his eyes, that he blessed Heaven for sending his dearest Aunty two such admirable nurses as her attached Firkin and her admirable Miss Briggs. Should the machinations of the horrible Mrs. Bute end, as she too much feared they would, in banishing everybody that Miss Crawley loved from her side, and leaving that poor lady a victim to those harpies at the Rectory, Rebecca besought her (Miss Briggs) to remember that her own home, humble as it was, was always open to receive Briggs. Dear friend,’ she exclaimed, in a transport of enthusiasm, ‘some hearts can never forget benefits; all women are not Bute Crawleys! Though why should I complain of her,’ Rebecca added; ‘though I have been her tool and the victim to her arts, do I not owe my dearest Rawdon to her?’ And Rebecca unfolded to Briggs all Mrs. Bute’s conduct at Queen’s Crawley, which, though unintelligible to her then, was clearly enough explained by the events now—now that the attachment had sprung up which Mrs. Bute had encouraged by a thousand artifices—now that two innocent people had fallen into the snares which she had laid for them, and loved and married and been ruined through her schemes.
“我能忘记她对这个没有朋友的孤儿如此友善吗？”不，尽管她抛弃了我，”后者说道，“我将永远不会停止爱她，我会奉献我的一生来为她服务。作为我自己的恩人，作为我心爱的罗登崇拜的亲戚，我对克劳利小姐、亲爱的布里格斯小姐的爱和钦佩超过了世界上任何一个女人，除她之外，我爱所有忠于她的人。我绝不会像那个可恶的布特夫人那样对待克劳利小姐的忠实朋友。罗登是个全心全意的人，”丽贝卡继续说道，“尽管他的外表举止可能显得粗鲁和粗心，但他已经含着泪水说过一百次了，他感谢上天为他最亲爱的阿姨送来了两位如此令人钦佩的护士。弗金和她令人钦佩的布里格斯小姐。如果可怕的布特夫人的阴谋结束了，正如她非常担心的那样，她会把克劳利小姐所爱的每一个人都从她身边驱逐出去，让这位可怜的女士成为教区长官邸里那些鹰身女妖的受害者，丽贝卡恳求她（布里格斯小姐） ）要记住，她自己的家虽然简陋，却总是敞开大门接待布里格斯。亲爱的朋友，”她热情地喊道，“有些人永远不会忘记利益；有些人永远不会忘记利益；有些人永远不会忘记利益。并非所有女人都不是布特·克劳利！虽然我为什么要抱怨她，”丽贝卡补充道； “虽然我一直是她的工具和她的艺术的受害者，但我不应该把我最亲爱的罗登归功于她吗？”丽贝卡向布里格斯讲述了比特夫人在克劳利女王学院的所有行为，尽管当时她无法理解，但显然已经足够了现在发生的事情可以解释这一点——现在，夫人的依恋已经产生了。 布特用了一千种诡计来鼓励——现在，两个无辜的人落入了她为他们设下的陷阱，他们相爱、结婚，却因她的阴谋而毁了。

It was all very true. Briggs saw the stratagems as clearly as possible. Mrs. Bute had made the match between Rawdon and Rebecca. Yet, though the latter was a perfectly innocent victim, Miss Briggs could not disguise from her friend her fear that Miss Crawley’s affections were hopelessly estranged from Rebecca, and that the old lady would never forgive her nephew for making so imprudent a marriage.
这一切都是真的。布里格斯尽可能清楚地看到了这些策略。布特夫人促成了罗登和丽贝卡的婚姻。然而，尽管后者是一个完全无辜的受害者，但布里格斯小姐无法向她的朋友掩饰她的恐惧，即克劳利小姐对丽贝卡的感情已经无可救药地疏远了，而老太太永远不会原谅她的侄子如此轻率的婚姻。

On this point Rebecca had her own opinion, and still kept up a good heart. If Miss Crawley did not forgive them at present, she might at least relent on a future day. Even now, there was only that puling, sickly Pitt Crawley between Rawdon and a baronetcy; and should anything happen to the former, all would be well. At all events, to have Mrs. Bute’s designs exposed, and herself well abused, was a satisfaction, and might be advantageous to Rawdon’s interest; and Rebecca, after an hour’s chat with her recovered friend, left her with the most tender demonstrations of regard, and quite assured that the conversation they had had together would be reported to Miss Crawley before many hours were over.
对于这一点，丽贝卡有自己的看法，并且仍然保持着一颗善良的心。如果克劳利小姐现在不原谅他们，她至少可能会在未来的某一天心软。即使现在，罗登和男爵之间也只有那个虚弱、病弱的皮特·克劳利。如果前者发生任何事情，一切都会好起来的。无论如何，布特夫人的设计被曝光，而她自己也受到了充分的虐待，这是一种满足，而且可能对罗登的兴趣有利。丽贝卡与她康复的朋友聊了一个小时后，向她表达了最温柔的敬意，并确信他们在一起的谈话将在几个小时结束之前报告给克劳利小姐。

This interview ended, it became full time for Rebecca to return to her inn, where all the party of the previous day were assembled at a farewell breakfast. Rebecca took such a tender leave of Amelia as became two women who loved each other as sisters; and having used her handkerchief plentifully, and hung on her friend’s neck as if they were parting for ever, and waved the handkerchief (which was quite dry, by the way) out of window, as the carriage drove off, she came back to the breakfast table, and ate some prawns with a good deal of appetite, considering her emotion; and while she was munching these delicacies, explained to Rawdon what had occurred in her morning walk between herself and Briggs. Her hopes were very high: she made her husband share them. She generally succeeded in making her husband share all her opinions, whether melancholy or cheerful.
这次采访结束，丽贝卡回到旅馆的时间到了，前一天的所有聚会都在这儿举行了告别早餐。丽贝卡温柔地告别了阿米莉亚，成为了两个相亲相爱的姐妹。她用了很多手帕，挂在朋友的脖子上，就好像他们永远分开一样，并在马车开走时将手帕（顺便说一下，手帕很干）向窗外挥舞，然后她回到了车站。早餐桌上，考虑到她的情绪，胃口大开，吃了一些大虾；当她咀嚼这些美味佳肴时，她向罗登解释了她早上和布里格斯散步时发生的事情。她的希望非常高：她让她的丈夫分享这些希望。她一般都能成功地让她的丈夫分享她所有的观点，无论是忧郁的还是快乐的。

‘You will now, if you please, my dear, sit down at the writing-table and pen me a pretty little letter to Miss Crawley, in which you’ll say that you are a good boy, and that sort of thing.’ So Rawdon sate down, and wrote off, ‘Brighton, Thursday,’ and ‘My dear Aunt,’ with great rapidity: but there the gallant officer’s imagination failed him. He mumbled the end of his pen, and looked up in his wife’s face. She could not help laughing at his rueful countenance, and marching up and down the room with her hands behind her, the little woman began to dictate a letter, which he took down.
“亲爱的，如果你愿意的话，你现在可以在写字台前坐下来，给我写一封漂亮的小信给克劳利小姐，在信中你会说你是一个好孩子，诸如此类的话。”于是罗登坐下来，飞快地写下“布莱顿，星期四”和“我亲爱的姑妈”：但这位英勇的军官的想象力却让他失望了。他咕哝着笔尖，抬头看着妻子的脸。她不禁嘲笑他悲伤的表情，背着手在房间里走来走去，小女人开始口述一封信，他记下了。

‘Before quitting the country and commencing a campaign, which very possibly may be fatal.’
“在离开这个国家并开始一场运动之前，这很可能是致命的。”

‘What?’ said Rawdon, rather surprised, but took the humour of the phrase, and presently wrote it down with a grin.
“什么？”罗登颇为惊讶地说，但他接受了这句话的幽默感，很快就笑着把它写了下来。

‘Which very possibly may be fatal, I have come hither—‘
“这很可能是致命的，我来到这里——”

‘Why not say come here, Becky? Come here’s grammar,’ the dragoon interposed.
“为什么不说来这里，贝基？这是语法，”龙骑兵插话道。

‘I have come hither,’ Rebecca insisted, with a stamp of her foot, ‘to say farewell to my dearest and earliest friend. I beseech you before I go, not perhaps to return, once more to let me press the hand from which I have received nothing but kindnesses all my life.’
“我来这里，”丽贝卡跺着脚，坚持道，“是为了向我最亲爱的、最早的朋友告别。”在我走之前，我恳求你，也许不再回来，再一次让我握住那只我一生除了仁慈之外一无所获的手。

‘Kindnesses all my life,’ echoed Rawdon, scratching down the words, and quite amazed at his own facility of composition.
“我一生都是仁慈的，”罗登附和着，划下了这句话，并对自己的写作能力感到非常惊讶。

‘I ask nothing from you but that we should part not in anger. I have the pride of my family on some points, though not on all. I married a painter’s daughter, and am not ashamed of the union.’
“我对你没有什么要求，只是我们不要在愤怒中分手。尽管不是全部，但在某些方面我为家人感到自豪。我娶了一位画家的女儿，我并不为这段婚姻感到羞耻。”

‘No, run me through the body if I am!’ Rawdon ejaculated.
“不，如果我是的话，就让我穿过身体吧！”罗登脱口而出。

‘You old booby,’ Rebecca said, pinching his ear and looking over to see that he made no mistakes in spelling—‘beseech is not spelt with an a, and earliest is.’ So he altered these words, bowing to the superior knowledge of his little Missis.
“你这个老笨蛋，”丽贝卡捏住他的耳朵，仔细查看他是否拼写错误——“beseech 的拼写不是a，而是early。”于是他改变了这些词，向高超的知识致敬。他的小小姐。

‘I thought that you were aware of the progress of my attachment,’ Rebecca continued: ‘I knew that Mrs. Bute Crawley confirmed and encouraged it. But I make no reproaches. I married a poor woman, and am content to abide by what I have done. Leave your property, dear Aunt, as you will. I shall never complain of the way in which you dispose of it. I would have you believe that I love you for yourself, and not for money’s sake. I want to be reconciled to you ere I leave England. Let me, let me see you before I go. A few weeks or months hence it may be too late, and I cannot bear the notion of quitting the country without a kind word of farewell from you.’
“我以为你知道我的依恋进展，”丽贝卡继续说道：“我知道布特·克劳利夫人证实并鼓励了它。但我并不责备。我娶了一个贫穷的女人，并满足于遵守我所做的事。亲爱的阿姨，随你所愿，留下你的财产。我永远不会抱怨你处理它的方式。我想让你相信我爱你是为了你自己，而不是为了金钱。我想在离开英国之前与你和解。让我，让我在走之前见见你。几周或几个月后可能就太晚了，我无法忍受在没有你的善意告别的情况下离开这个国家的想法。

‘She won’t recognise my style in that,’ said Becky. ‘I made the sentences short and brisk on purpose.’ And this authentic missive was despatched under cover to Miss Briggs.
“她不会认出我的风格，”贝基说。 “我故意把句子写得简短而轻快。”这封真实的信是秘密寄给布里格斯小姐的。

Old Miss Crawley laughed when Briggs, with great mystery, handed her over this candid and simple statement. ‘We may read it now Mrs. Bute is away,’ she said. ‘Read it to me, Briggs.’
当布里格斯带着极大的神秘感向克劳利老小姐递出这份坦率而简单的声明时，她笑了。 “我们现在可以读一下，布特夫人不在，”她说。 “读给我听，布里格斯。”

When Briggs had read the epistle out, her patroness laughed more. ‘Don’t you see, you goose,’ she said to Briggs, who professed to be much touched by the honest affection which pervaded the composition, ‘don’t you see that Rawdon never wrote a word of it. He never wrote to me without asking for money in his life, and all his letters are full of bad spelling, and dashes, and bad grammar. It is that little serpent of a governess who rules him.’ They are all alike, Miss Crawley thought in her heart. They all want me dead, and are hankering for my money.
当布里格斯读完这封信后，她的赞助人笑得更厉害了。 “你没看到吗，你这个笨蛋，”她对布里格斯说，布里格斯自称被这篇文章中弥漫的真诚感情深深感动，“你难道没有看到罗登从来没有写过一个字吗？”他一生中从来没有不向我索要钱就给我写过信，他所有的信都充满了糟糕的拼写、破折号和糟糕的语法。统治他的是家庭女教师的那条小蛇。”克劳利小姐心里想，他们都是一样的。他们都想要我死，并且渴望我的钱。

‘I don’t mind seeing Rawdon,’ she added, after a pause, and in a tone of perfect indifference. ‘I had just as soon shake hands with him as not. Provided there is no scene, why shouldn’t we meet? I don’t mind. But human patience has its limits; and mind, my dear, I respectfully decline to receive Mrs. Rawdon—I can’t support that quite’—and Miss Briggs was fain to be content with this halfmessage of conciliation; and thought that the best method of bringing the old lady and her nephew together, was to warn Rawdon to be in waiting on the Cliff, when Miss Crawley went out for her air in her chair. There they met. I don’t know whether Miss Crawley had any private feeling of regard or emotion upon seeing her old favourite; but she held out a couple of fingers to him with as smiling and good-humoured an air, as if they had met only the day before. And as for Rawdon, he turned as red as scarlet, and wrung off Briggs’s hand, so great was his rapture and his confusion at the meeting. Perhaps it was interest that moved him: or perhaps affection: perhaps he was touched by the change which the illness of the last weeks had wrought in his aunt.
“我不介意见到罗登，”停顿了一下，她补充道，语气完全漠不关心。 “我立刻就与他握手了。如果没有场景，我们为什么不见面呢？我不介意。但人类的耐心是有限度的。请注意，亲爱的，我谨拒绝接待罗登夫人——我不能完全支持这一点——布里格斯小姐很乐意满足于这种半调和的信息；她认为，让老太太和她的侄子聚在一起的最好办法，就是当克劳利小姐坐在椅子上出去透透气时，警告罗登在悬崖上等着。他们在那里相遇了。我不知道克劳利小姐在看到她的旧爱时是否有任何私人的尊重或情感；但她向他伸出了几根手指，脸上带着微笑和幽默，仿佛他们前一天才见过面。至于罗登，他的脸涨得通红，一把挣开了布里格斯的手，他在这次会议上既狂喜又困惑。也许是兴趣感动了他，也许是感情：也许他被过去几周的疾病给他姨妈带来的变化所感动。

‘The old girl has always acted like a trump to me,’ he said to his wife, as he narrated the interview, ‘and I felt, you know, rather queer, and that sort of thing. I walked by the side of the whatdy’e-call-’em, you know, and to her own door, where Bowls came to help her in. And I wanted to go in very much, only—‘
“那个老女孩对我来说总是表现得像个王牌，”他在叙述采访时对妻子说，“你知道，我觉得很奇怪，诸如此类的事情。”我走在那些所谓的“他们”旁边，你知道，走到她自己的门口，鲍尔斯过来帮她进去。我非常想进去，只是——”

‘YOU DIDN’T GO IN, Rawdon!’ screamed his wife.
“你没有进去，罗登！”他的妻子尖叫道。

‘No, my dear; I’m hanged if I wasn’t afraid when it came to the point.’
'不是，亲爱的;如果到了关键时刻我不害怕的话，我就被绞死了。

‘You fool! you ought to have gone in, and never come out again,’ Rebecca said.
'你个笨蛋！你应该进去，再也不要出来。”丽贝卡说。

‘Don’t call me names,’ said the big Guardsman, sulkily. ‘Perhaps I WAS a fool, Becky, but you shouldn’t say so”; and he gave his wife a look, such as his countenance could wear when angered, and such as was not pleasant to face.
“别骂我。”高大的卫兵闷闷不乐地说。 “也许我是个傻瓜，贝基，但你不应该这么说”；他用一种表情看着他的妻子，这是他生气时的表情，也是一种不愉快的表情。

‘Well, dearest, to-morrow you must be on the look-out, and go and see her, mind, whether she asks you or no,’ Rebecca said, trying to soothe her angry yoke-mate. On which he replied, that he would do exactly as he liked, and would just thank her to keep a civil tongue in her head—and the wounded husband went away, and passed the forenoon at the billiard-room, sulky, silent, and suspicious.
“好吧，最亲爱的，明天你一定要小心，不管她是否邀请你，都要去看她，”丽贝卡说道，试图安抚她愤怒的伙伴。他回答说，他会做他喜欢做的事，只是感谢她在脑子里保持文明的舌头——受伤的丈夫离开了，在台球室里度过了一个上午，闷闷不乐，沉默寡言，可疑的。

But before the night was over he was compelled to give in, and own, as usual, to his wife’s superior prudence and foresight, by the most melancholy confirmation of the presentiments which she had regarding the consequences of the mistake which he had made. Miss Crawley must have had some emotion upon seeing him and shaking hands with him after so long a rupture. She mused upon the meeting a considerable time. ‘Rawdon is getting very fat and old, Briggs,’ she said to her companion. ‘His nose has become red, and he is exceedingly coarse in appearance. His marriage to that woman has hopelessly vulgarised him. Mrs. Bute always said they drank together; and I have no doubt they do. Yes: he smelt of gin abominably. I remarked it. Didn’t you?’
但在那天晚上结束之前，他不得不屈服，并像往常一样承认他妻子的卓越的谨慎和远见，因为她对他所犯错误的后果的预感得到了最忧郁的证实。克劳利小姐在与他分手这么久之后见到他并与他握手时一定有些激动。她对这次会面思考了相当长的时间。 “布里格斯，罗登变得又胖又老，”她对同伴说。 ‘他的鼻子已经变红了，而且面貌极其粗糙。他与那个女人的婚姻使他无可救药地变得庸俗。布特夫人总是说他们一起喝酒。我毫不怀疑他们确实如此。是的：他闻起来有一股难闻的杜松子酒味。我注意到了。你不是吗？

In vain Briggs interposed that Mrs. Bute spoke ill of everybody: and, as far as a person in her humble position could judge, was an—
布里格斯徒劳地插嘴说布特夫人说每个人的坏话：而且，就她卑微地位的人所能判断的而言，她是一个——

‘An artful designing woman? Yes, so she is, and she does speak ill of every one—but I am certain that woman has made Rawdon drink. All those low people do—‘
“一位善于设计的女人？是的，她就是这样，而且她确实说每个人的坏话——但我确信那个女人让罗顿喝了酒。所有那些低等人都会——”

‘He was very much affected at seeing you, ma’am,’ the companion said; ‘and I am sure, when you remember that he is going to the field of danger—‘
“夫人，他一看到您就非常感动，”同伴说道。 “我确信，当你记得他要去危险的地方时——”

‘How much money has he promised you, Briggs?’ the old spinster cried out, working herself into a nervous rage—‘there now, of course you begin to cry. I hate scenes. Why am I always to be worried? Go and cry up in your own room, and send Firkin to me—no, stop, sit down and blow your nose, and leave off crying, and write a letter to Captain Crawley.’ Poor Briggs went and placed herself obediently at the writing-book. Its leaves were blotted all over with relics of the firm, strong, rapid handwriting of the spinster’s late amanuensis, Mrs. Bute Crawley.
“他答应给你多少钱，布里格斯？”老处女大声喊道，让自己陷入紧张的愤怒之中——“现在，你当然开始哭泣了。我讨厌场景。为什么我总是忧心忡忡？去你自己的房间里哭吧，然后把菲尔金送到我这里来——不，停下来，坐下来擤鼻涕，别哭了，给克劳利船长写一封信。”可怜的布里格斯走过去，乖乖地写信。 -书。它的叶子上沾满了老处女已故的抄写员布特·克劳利夫人坚定、有力、快速的笔迹。

‘Begin ‘My dear sir,’ or ‘Dear sir,’ that will be better, and say you are desired by Miss Crawley—no, by Miss Crawley’s medical man, by Mr. Creamer, to state that my health is such that all strong emotions would be dangerous in my present delicate condition—and that I must decline any family discussions or interviews whatever. And thank him for coming to Brighton, and so forth, and beg him not to stay any longer on my account. And, Miss Briggs, you may add that I wish him a bon voyage, and that if he will take the trouble to call upon my lawyer’s in Gray’s Inn Square, he will find there a communication for him. Yes, that will do; and that will make him leave Brighton.’ The benevolent Briggs penned this sentence with the utmost satisfaction.
“开始‘我亲爱的先生’或‘亲爱的先生’，这样会更好，并说克劳利小姐想要你——不，是克劳利小姐的医生，克里默先生，说我的健康状况是这样的，在我目前脆弱的情况下，强烈的情绪是危险的——我必须拒绝任何家庭讨论或采访。感谢他来到布莱顿等等，并恳求他不要再因为我的缘故而停留了。而且，布里格斯小姐，你可以补充说，我祝他一路顺风，如果他能不厌其烦地拜访我在格雷旅馆广场的律师，他会在那里找到他的通讯方式。是的，这样就可以了；仁慈的布里格斯非常满意地写下这句话。

‘To seize upon me the very day after Mrs. Bute was gone,’ the old lady prattled on; ‘it was too indecent. Briggs, my dear, write to Mrs. Crawley, and say SHE needn’t come back. No—she needn’t—and she shan’t—and I won’t be a slave in my own house—and I won’t be starved and choked with poison. They all want to kill me—all— all’—and with this the lonely old woman burst into a scream of hysterical tears.
“比特夫人走后的第二天就抓住了我，”老太太喋喋不休地说。 ‘这太不雅了。布里格斯，亲爱的，写信给克劳利夫人，说她不必回来。不——她不需要——她也不应该——我不会在自己家里当奴隶——我也不会挨饿和中毒。他们都想杀了我——所有人——所有人”——说到这里，孤独的老妇人歇斯底里地尖叫起来，泪流满面。

The last scene of her dismal Vanity Fair comedy was fast approaching; the tawdry lamps were going out one by one; and the dark curtain was almost ready to descend.
她那令人沮丧的《名利场》喜剧的最后一幕即将到来。俗气的灯一盏一盏地熄灭了。黑幕即将落下。

That final paragraph, which referred Rawdon to Miss Crawley’s solicitor in London, and which Briggs had written so good-naturedly, consoled the dragoon and his wife somewhat, after their first blank disappointment, on reading the spinster’s refusal of a reconciliation. And it effected the purpose for which the old lady had caused it to be written, by making Rawdon very eager to get to London.
最后一段提到罗登去见克劳利小姐在伦敦的律师，布里格斯写得如此善意，在读到老处女拒绝和解后，龙骑兵和他的妻子在第一次茫然失望之后，多少得到了一些安慰。这也达到了老太太写这本书的目的，让罗登非常渴望去伦敦。

Out of Jos’s losings and George Osborne’s bank-notes, he paid his bill at the inn, the landlord whereof does not probably know to this day how doubtfully his account once stood. For, as a general sends his baggage to the rear before an action, Rebecca had wisely packed up all their chief valuables and sent them off under care of George’s servant, who went in charge of the trunks on the coach back to London. Rawdon and his wife returned by the same conveyance next day.
他用乔斯的损失和乔治·奥斯本的钞票支付了旅馆的账单，而房东至今可能还不知道他的账户曾经有多么可疑。因为，就像一位将军在行动前将行李送到后方一样，丽贝卡明智地收拾好他们所有的主要贵重物品，并把它们交给乔治的仆人看管，而乔治的仆人负责管理返回伦敦的马车上的行李箱。罗登和他的妻子第二天乘坐同一辆交通工具返回。

‘I should have liked to see the old girl before we went,’ Rawdon said. ‘She looks so cut up and altered that I’m sure she can’t last long. I wonder what sort of a cheque I shall have at Waxy’s. Two hundred—it can’t be less than two hundred—hey, Becky?’
“我们走之前我真想见见那个老女孩，”罗登说。 “她看起来如此疲惫不堪，变化如此之大，我确信她撑不了多久了。”我想知道我会在瓦克西那里开一张什么样的支票。两百——不能少于两百——嘿，贝基？

In consequence of the repeated visits of the aides-de-camp of the Sheriff of Middlesex, Rawdon and his wife did not go back to their lodgings at Brompton, but put up at an inn. Early the next morning, Rebecca had an opportunity of seeing them as she skirted that suburb on her road to old Mrs. Sedley’s house at Fulham, whither she went to look for her dear Amelia and her Brighton friends. They were all off to Chatham, thence to Harwich, to take shipping for Belgium with the regiment—kind old Mrs. Sedley very much depressed and tearful, solitary. Returning from this visit, Rebecca found her husband, who had been off to Gray’s Inn, and learnt his fate. He came back furious.
由于米德尔塞克斯郡治安官的副官多次造访，罗登和他的妻子没有返回布朗普顿的住所，而是住在一家旅馆里。第二天一早，丽贝卡绕着郊区前往富勒姆塞德利老太太的家，在那里她去寻找她亲爱的阿米莉亚和布莱顿的朋友们，她有机会见到了他们。他们全都出发去查塔姆，从那里到哈里奇，随团乘船前往比利时——善良的塞德利老太太非常沮丧，泪流满面，孤独。这次访问回来后，丽贝卡找到了前往格雷旅馆的丈夫，并了解了他的命运。他回来时怒不可遏。

‘By Jove, Becky,’ says he, ‘she’s only given me twenty pound!’
“天哪，贝基，”他说，“她只给了我二十英镑！”

Though it told against themselves, the joke was too good, and Becky burst out laughing at Rawdon’s discomfiture.
虽然这对他们自己来说是不利的，但这个笑话开得太好了，贝基对罗登的狼狈大笑起来。

Chapter XXVI
第二十六章


Between London and Chatham
伦敦和查塔姆之间

On quitting Brighton, our friend George, as became a person of rank and fashion travelling in a barouche with four horses, drove in state to a fine hotel in Cavendish Square, where a suite of splendid rooms, and a table magnificently furnished with plate and surrounded by a half-dozen of black and silent waiters, was ready to receive the young gentleman and his bride. George did the honours of the place with a princely air to Jos and Dobbin; and Amelia, for the first time, and with exceeding shyness and timidity, presided at what George called her own table.
离开布莱顿后，我们的朋友乔治成为了一个有地位、时尚的人，开着一辆四匹马的马车旅行，威风凛凛地开车来到卡文迪什广场的一家高级酒店，那里有一套华丽的房间，还有一张装饰华丽的桌子，上面摆满了盘子和盘子。在六名沉默寡言的黑人侍者的簇拥下，准备迎接这位年轻的绅士和他的新娘。乔治以王者般的姿态为乔斯和多宾提供了这个地方的荣誉。阿米莉亚第一次带着极度的害羞和胆怯，主持了乔治所说的她自己的餐桌。

George pooh-poohed the wine and bullied the waiters royally, and Jos gobbled the turtle with immense satisfaction. Dobbin helped him to it; for the lady of the house, before whom the tureen was placed, was so ignorant of the contents, that she was going to help Mr. Sedley without bestowing upon him either calipash or calipee.
乔治对酒嗤之以鼻，还威严地欺负服务员，乔斯则非常满意地狼吞虎咽地吃掉了乌龟。多宾帮助他做到了这一点；因为把盖碗放在她面前的女主人对里面的东西一无所知，所以她打算帮助塞德利先生，但没有给他任何卡利帕什或卡利佩。

The splendour of the entertainment, and the apartments in which it was given, alarmed Mr. Dobbin, who remonstrated after dinner, when Jos was asleep in the great chair. But in vain he cried out against the enormity of turtle and champagne that was fit for an archbishop. ‘I’ve always been accustomed to travel like a gentleman,’ George said, ‘and, damme, my wife shall travel like a lady. As long as there’s a shot in the locker, she shall want for nothing,’ said the generous fellow, quite pleased with himself for his magnificence of spirit. Nor did Dobbin try and convince him that Amelia’s happiness was not centred in turtle-soup.
盛大的娱乐活动以及举行娱乐活动的公寓让多宾先生感到震惊，晚饭后，当乔斯在大椅子上睡着时，他提出了抗议。但他徒劳地大声疾呼，反对大主教适合享用的海龟和香槟。 “我一直习惯像绅士一样旅行，”乔治说，“而且，天啊，我的妻子也会像淑女一样旅行。”只要储物柜里还有一枪，她就什么都不缺。”那位慷慨的家伙说道，他对自己的伟大精神感到非常满意。多宾也没有试图让他相信阿米莉亚的幸福并不在于甲鱼汤。

A while after dinner, Amelia timidly expressed a wish to go and see her mamma, at Fulham: which permission George granted her with some grumbling. And she tripped away to her enormous bedroom, in the centre of which stood the enormous funereal bed, ‘that the Emperor Halixander’s sister slep in when the allied sufferings was here,’ and put on her little bonnet and shawl with the utmost eagerness and pleasure. George was still drinking claret when she returned to the dining-room, and made no signs of moving. ‘Ar’n’t you coming with me, dearest?’ she asked him. No; the ‘dearest’ had ‘business’ that night. His man should get her a coach and go with her. And the coach being at the door of the hotel, Amelia made George a little disappointed curtsey after looking vainly into his face once or twice, and went sadly down the great staircase, Captain Dobbin after, who handed her into the vehicle, and saw it drive away to its destination. The very valet was ashamed of mentioning the address to the hackney-coachman before the hotel waiters, and promised to instruct him when they got further on.
晚饭后不久，阿米莉亚胆怯地表示想去富勒姆看望她的妈妈：乔治有些抱怨地答应了她。她跌跌撞撞地走进她那间巨大的卧室，卧室中央放着一张巨大的葬礼床，“当这里遭受苦难时，哈利克桑德皇帝的妹妹就睡在上面”，然后她带着极大的渴望和高兴戴上了她的小帽子和披肩。 。当她回到餐厅时，乔治还在喝红葡萄酒，没有任何移动的迹象。 “亲爱的，你不跟我一起去吗？”她问他。不;那天晚上，“最亲爱的”有“事”。他的男人应该给她找个教练，陪她一起去。马车已经到了旅馆门口，阿米莉亚徒劳地看了乔治的脸一两次，然后有点失望地行了屈膝礼，然后悲伤地走下大楼梯，多宾船长跟在后面，船长把她递进车里，看到了。开车前往目的地。那个男仆很羞于在酒店服务员面前向马车夫提及地址，并答应当他们继续前进时会指导他。

Dobbin walked home to his old quarters and the Slaughters’, thinking very likely that it would be delightful to be in that hackney-coach, along with Mrs. Osborne. George was evidently of quite a different taste; for when he had taken wine enough, he went off to half-price at the play, to see Mr. Kean perform in Shylock. Captain Osborne was a great lover of the drama, and had himself performed highcomedy characters with great distinction in several garrison theatrical entertainments. Jos slept on until long after dark, when he woke up with a start at the motions of his servant, who was removing and emptying the decanters on the table; and the hackneycoach stand was again put into requisition for a carriage to convey this stout hero to his lodgings and bed.
多宾步行回到他的老住处和斯劳特一家，他想，如果能和奥斯本夫人一起坐在那辆出租马车里，一定会很高兴。乔治显然有着完全不同的品味。因为当他喝够了酒后，他就以半价的价格去看基恩先生演的夏洛克。奥斯本上尉非常喜欢戏剧，他本人在几场驻军戏剧表演中都表现出色，表现出色。乔斯一直睡到天黑很久以后，他才被仆人的动作惊醒，仆人正在把桌子上的酒瓶移走并倒空。哈克尼马车站再次征用一辆马车，将这位身材魁梧的英雄运送到他的住所和床上。

Mrs. Sedley, you may be sure, clasped her daughter to her heart with all maternal eagerness and affection, running out of the door as the carriage drew up before the little garden-gate, to welcome the weeping, trembling, young bride. Old Mr. Clapp, who was in his shirt-sleeves, trimming the garden-plot, shrank back alarmed. The Irish servant-lass rushed up from the kitchen and smiled a ‘God bless you.’ Amelia could hardly walk along the flags and up the steps into the parlour.
你可以肯定，塞德利夫人怀着母性的热切和慈爱，将女儿紧紧抱在胸前，当马车停在小花园门前时，她跑出门去，迎接这位哭泣、颤抖的年轻新娘。老克拉普先生正穿着衬衫，正在修剪花园的土地，他惊慌地向后退了一步。爱尔兰女仆从厨房冲了出来，微笑着说道：“上帝保佑你。”阿米莉亚几乎无法沿着旗帜走上台阶进入客厅。

How the floodgates were opened, and mother and daughter wept, when they were together embracing each other in this sanctuary, may readily be imagined by every reader who possesses the least sentimental turn. When don’t ladies weep? At what occasion of joy, sorrow, or other business of life, and, after such an event as a marriage, mother and daughter were surely at liberty to give way to a sensibility which is as tender as it is refreshing. About a question of marriage I have seen women who hate each other kiss and cry together quite fondly. How much more do they feel when they love! Good mothers are married over again at their daughters’ weddings: and as for subsequent events, who does not know how ultramaternal grandmothers are?—in fact a woman, until she is a grandmother, does not often really know what to be a mother is. Let us respect Amelia and her mamma whispering and whimpering and laughing and crying in the parlour and the twilight. Old Mr. Sedley did. HE had not divined who was in the carriage when it drove up. He had not flown out to meet his daughter, though he kissed her very warmly when she entered the room (where he was occupied, as usual, with his papers and tapes and statements of accounts), and after sitting with the mother and daughter for a short time, he very wisely left the little apartment in their possession.
当闸门被打开，母女在这个圣所里相拥而泣时，每一个稍有感情色彩的读者都可以想象得到。女人什么时候不流泪？在任何欢乐、悲伤或生活中的其他事情的场合，以及在结婚这样的事件之后，母亲和女儿肯定可以自由地让位于一种既温柔又令人耳目一新的情感。关于婚姻问题，我见过互相憎恨的女人非常深情地一起亲吻和哭泣。当他们相爱时，他们的感受是多么强烈啊！好母亲会在女儿的婚礼上重新结婚：至于后来的事情，谁不知道祖母是怎样的一个超级母性呢？事实上，一个女人，在成为祖母之前，往往并不真正知道什么是母亲。 。让我们尊重阿米莉亚和她的妈妈，她们在客厅和暮色中窃窃私语、呜咽、大笑、哭泣。老塞德利先生做到了。当马车开过来时，他并没有猜出车里坐着的是谁。他没有飞出去见他的女儿，尽管当她进入房间时（他像往常一样忙着处理文件、录音带和账目报表），并与母女俩坐在一起后，他非常热情地吻了她。不久之后，他就非常明智地把那间小公寓留给了他们。

George’s valet was looking on in a very supercilious manner at Mr. Clapp in his shirt-sleeves, watering his rose-bushes. He took off his hat, however, with much condescension to Mr. Sedley, who asked news about his son-in-law, and about Jos’s carriage, and whether his horses had been down to Brighton, and about that infernal traitor Bonaparty, and the war; until the Irish maid-servant came with a plate and a bottle of wine, from which the old gentleman insisted upon helping the valet. He gave him a half-guinea too, which the servant pocketed with a mixture of wonder and contempt. ‘To the health of your master and mistress, Trotter,’ Mr. Sedley said, ‘and here’s something to drink your health when you get home, Trotter.’
乔治的男仆非常傲慢地看着穿着衬衫的克拉普先生正在给他的玫瑰丛浇水。然而，他脱下帽子，对塞德利先生非常居高临下，塞德利先生询问有关他女婿的消息，有关乔斯的马车，以及他的马是否已经到达布莱顿，以及有关那个可恶的叛徒波纳帕蒂的消息，以及战争;直到爱尔兰女仆端着一个盘子和一瓶酒过来，老绅士坚持要帮助男仆。他还给了他半畿尼，仆人带着惊讶和轻蔑的表情将其装进口袋。 “为了你的主人和情妇的健康，特罗特，”塞德利先生说，“这是你回家后喝的东西，可以为你的健康喝点酒，特罗特。”

There were but nine days past since Amelia had left that little cottage and home—and yet how far off the time seemed since she had bidden it farewell. What a gulf lay between her and that past life. She could look back to it from her present standing-place, and contemplate, almost as another being, the young unmarried girl absorbed in her love, having no eyes but for one special object, receiving parental affection if not ungratefully, at least indifferently, and as if it were her due—her whole heart and thoughts bent on the accomplishment of one desire. The review of those days, so lately gone yet so far away, touched her with shame; and the aspect of the kind parents filled her with tender remorse. Was the prize gained—the heaven of life—and the winner still doubtful and unsatisfied? As his hero and heroine pass the matrimonial barrier, the novelist generally drops the curtain, as if the drama were over then: the doubts and struggles of life ended: as if, once landed in the marriage country, all were green and pleasant there: and wife and husband had nothing to do but to link each other’s arms together, and wander gently downwards towards old age in happy and perfect fruition. But our little Amelia was just on the bank of her new country, and was already looking anxiously back towards the sad friendly figures waving farewell to her across the stream, from the other distant shore.
距离阿米莉亚离开那间小屋和家才过去了九天——但距离她告别的时间似乎还很遥远。她和过去的生活之间存在着多么大的鸿沟啊。她可以从现在的站立位置回望它，并思考，几乎像另一个人一样，年轻的未婚女孩全神贯注于她的爱情，除了一个特殊的目标之外没有眼睛，接受父母的爱，如果不是忘恩负义，至少是漠不关心，仿佛这是她应得的——她全心全意地致力于实现一个愿望。回想起那些日子，虽然刚刚过去，却又那么遥远，让她感到羞愧。父母慈祥的样子让她心中充满了温柔的悔恨。获得的奖品——生命的天堂——胜利者是否仍然心存疑虑和不满足？当男女主人公跨过婚姻的关口时，小说家一般都会落下帷幕，仿佛戏剧就此结束：人生的疑虑和挣扎结束了：仿佛一旦踏上婚姻国度，一切都是青翠宜人的：夫妻二人无事可做，只能挽着手，幸福圆满地走向晚年。但我们的小阿米莉亚就在她的新国家的岸边，她已经焦急地回头望着小溪对岸、从遥远的彼岸向她挥手告别的悲伤友好的身影。

In honour of the young bride’s arrival, her mother thought it necessary to prepare I don’t know what festive entertainment, and after the first ebullition of talk, took leave of Mrs. George Osborne for a while, and dived down to the lower regions of the house to a sort of kitchen-parlour (occupied by Mr. and Mrs. Clapp, and in the evening, when her dishes were washed and her curl-papers removed, by Miss Flannigan, the Irish servant), there to take measures for the preparing of a magnificent ornamented tea. All people have their ways of expressing kindness, and it seemed to Mrs. Sedley that a muffin and a quantity of orange marmalade spread out in a little cut-glass saucer would be peculiarly agreeable refreshments to Amelia in her most interesting situation.
为了迎接年轻新娘的到来，她的母亲认为有必要准备一场不知是什么节日的娱乐活动，在第一次热烈的交谈之后，就向乔治·奥斯本夫人告别了一会儿，潜入了较低的地区。房子的一个厨房客厅（由克拉普先生和夫人占据，晚上，爱尔兰仆人弗兰尼根小姐洗碗并拿走她的卷发纸），在那里采取措施用于准备精美的装饰茶。每个人都有自己表达善意的方式，在塞德利夫人看来，在阿米莉亚最有趣的情况下，在一个小刻花玻璃碟中铺上一块松饼和一些橙子果酱，对她来说是特别令人愉快的茶点。

While these delicacies were being transacted below, Amelia, leaving the drawing-room, walked upstairs and found herself, she scarce knew how, in the little room which she had occupied before her marriage, and in that very chair in which she had passed so many bitter hours. She sank back in its arms as if it were an old friend; and fell to thinking over the past week, and the life beyond it. Already to be looking sadly and vaguely back: always to be pining for something which, when obtained, brought doubt and sadness rather than pleasure; here was the lot of our poor little creature and harmless lost wanderer in the great struggling crowds of Vanity Fair.
当下面正在处理这些美味佳肴的时候，阿米莉亚离开客厅，走上楼，发现自己在她结婚前住过的小房间里，在她走过的那张椅子上，她几乎不知道自己是怎么做到的。许多痛苦的时光。她重新投入到它的怀抱中，就像它是一个老朋友一样。然后开始思考过去的一周以及之后的生活。已经悲伤而模糊地回望过去：总是渴望得到一些东西，而当得到这些东西时，会带来怀疑和悲伤，而不是快乐；这就是我们可怜的小动物和无害的迷失流浪者的命运，在名利场的巨大挣扎人群中。

Here she sate, and recalled to herself fondly that image of George to which she had knelt before marriage. Did she own to herself how different the real man was from that superb young hero whom she had worshipped? It requires many, many years—and a man must be very bad indeed—before a woman’s pride and vanity will let her own to such a confession. Then Rebecca’s twinkling green eyes and baleful smile lighted upon her, and filled her with dismay. And so she sate for awhile indulging in her usual mood of selfish brooding, in that very listless melancholy attitude in which the honest maid-servant had found her, on the day when she brought up the letter in which George renewed his offer of marriage.
她坐在这里，深情地回忆起结婚前她跪在乔治面前的情景。她是否承认，真正的男人与她所崇拜的那个出色的少年英雄有多么不同？女人需要很多很多年——而且男人一定很坏——女人的骄傲和虚荣心才会承认这样的坦白。然后丽贝卡闪烁的绿眼睛和恶毒的微笑照亮了她，让她充满了沮丧。于是，她坐了一会儿，沉浸在她一贯的自私沉思的情绪中，在她提起乔治再次求婚的那封信的那天，诚实的女仆发现她时那种无精打采的忧郁态度。

She looked at the little white bed, which had been hers a few days before, and thought she would like to sleep in it that night, and wake, as formerly, with her mother smiling over her in the morning: Then she thought with terror of the great funereal damask pavilion in the vast and dingy state bedroom, which was awaiting her at the grand hotel in Cavendish Square. Dear little white bed! how many a long night had she wept on its pillow! How she had despaired and hoped to die there; and now were not all her wishes accomplished, and the lover of whom she had despaired her own for ever? Kind mother! how patiently and tenderly she had watched round that bed! She went and knelt down by the bedside; and there this wounded and timorous, but gentle and loving soul, sought for consolation, where as yet, it must be owned, our little girl had but seldom looked for it. Love had been her faith hitherto; and the sad, bleeding disappointed heart began to feel the want of another consoler.
她看着那张白色的小床，几天前它还是她的，她想那天晚上她会睡在上面，然后像以前一样醒来，早上她母亲对着她微笑：然后她恐惧地想在卡文迪什广场的大酒店里，宽敞而昏暗的国事卧室里，有一座巨大的葬礼锦缎凉亭，正在等待着她。亲爱的白色小床！她曾在枕头上哭泣过多少个漫长的夜晚！她多么绝望，多么希望死在那里；现在，她所有的愿望不都已经实现了吗？而她曾经对她的爱人已经永远绝望了？慈祥的妈妈！她是多么耐心、温柔地看着那张床！她走到床边跪下。在那里，这个受伤、胆怯、但又温柔、充满爱心的灵魂寻求安慰，到目前为止，它必须被拥有，我们的小女孩却很少寻找它。迄今为止，爱一直是她的信仰。那颗悲伤、流血、失望的心开始感到需要另一个安慰。

Have we a right to repeat or to overhear her prayers? These, brother, are secrets, and out of the domain of Vanity Fair, in which our story lies.
我们是否有权重复或偷听她的祈祷？兄弟，这些都是秘密，不属于我们的故事所在的《名利场》的范畴。

But this may be said, that when the tea was finally announced, our young lady came downstairs a great deal more cheerful; that she did not despond, or deplore her fate, or think about George’s coldness, or Rebecca’s eyes, as she had been wont to do of late. She went downstairs, and kissed her father and mother, and talked to the old gentleman, and made him more merry than he had been for many a day. She sate down at the piano which Dobbin had bought for her, and sang over all her father’s favourite old songs. She pronounced the tea to be excellent, and praised the exquisite taste in which the marmalade was arranged in the saucers. And in determining to make everybody else happy, she found herself so; and was sound asleep in the great funereal pavilion, and only woke up with a smile when George arrived from the theatre.
不过，可以这么说，当最后宣布喝茶时，我们的小姐下楼时心情愉快多了。她没有像最近习惯做的那样感到沮丧，或哀叹自己的命运，或想起乔治的冷漠，或丽贝卡的眼睛。她下楼，亲吻了她的父母，并与老先生交谈，让他比许多天都高兴。她坐在多宾给她买的钢琴前，唱起了她父亲最喜欢的老歌。她称赞茶非常好，并称赞茶托中的果酱的精致味道。当她决定让其他人都快乐时，她发现自己也是如此；他在巨大的殡仪馆里睡得很熟，直到乔治从剧院回来时才带着微笑醒来。

For the next day, George had more important ‘business’ to transact than that which took him to see Mr. Kean in Shylock. Immediately on his arrival in London he had written off to his father’s solicitors, signifying his royal pleasure that an interview should take place between them on the morrow. His hotel bill, losses at billiards and cards to Captain Crawley had almost drained the young man’s purse, which wanted replenishing before he set out on his travels, and he had no resource but to infringe upon the two thousand pounds which the attorneys were commissioned to pay over to him. He had a perfect belief in his own mind that his father would relent before very long. How could any parent be obdurate for a length of time against such a paragon as he was? If his mere past and personal merits did not succeed in mollifying his father, George determined that he would distinguish himself so prodigiously in the ensuing campaign that the old gentleman must give in to him. And if not? Bah! the world was before him. His luck might change at cards, and there was a deal of spending in two thousand pounds.
第二天，乔治有比去见夏洛克的基恩先生更重要的“事情”要处理。抵达伦敦后，他立即向父亲的律师提出了注销，表示他很高兴他们明天会面。他的旅馆账单、台球和打给克劳利上尉的牌的损失几乎耗尽了年轻人的钱包，在他出发旅行之前需要补充资金，他没有办法，只能侵犯律师委托的两千英镑。付钱给他。他心中坚信，父亲不久就会心软。哪有父母能够长期对他这样的典范表现出顽固不化的态度呢？如果他的过去和个人功绩不足以安抚他的父亲，乔治决定他将在随后的竞选中表现出色，以至于这位老绅士必须向他让步。如果不？呸!世界就在他面前。他的运气可能会在打牌时发生变化，而且有一笔两千英镑的花费。

So he sent off Amelia once more in a carriage to her mamma, with strict orders and carte blanche to the two ladies to purchase everything requisite for a lady of Mrs. George Osborne’s fashion, who was going on a foreign tour. They had but one day to complete the outfit, and it may be imagined that their business therefore occupied them pretty fully. In a carriage once more, bustling about from milliner to linen-draper, escorted back to the carriage by obsequious shopmen or polite owners, Mrs. Sedley was herself again almost, and sincerely happy for the first time since their misfortunes. Nor was Mrs. Amelia at all above the pleasure of shopping, and bargaining, and seeing and buying pretty things. (Would any man, the most philosophic, give twopence for a woman who was?) She gave herself a little treat, obedient to her husband’s orders, and purchased a quantity of lady’s gear, showing a great deal of taste and elegant discernment, as all the shopfolks said.
于是，他再次用马车送阿米莉亚去她妈妈那里，并严格命令两位女士全权购买乔治·奥斯本夫人出访的时尚女士所需的一切必需品。他们只有一天的时间来完成这套服装，可以想象，他们的工作因此占据了相当大的时间。塞德利夫人再次坐上马车，忙着从女帽商到亚麻布商，在谄媚的店主或礼貌的车主的护送下回到马车，塞德利夫人几乎又恢复了原来的样子，自从他们遭遇不幸以来，她第一次感到由衷的高兴。阿米莉亚夫人也非常享受购物、讨价还价、参观和购买漂亮东西的乐趣。 （最有哲理的男人会为一个有哲理的女人付两便士吗？）她听从丈夫的吩咐，给自己一点犒赏，买了一批女士服饰，表现出极大的品味和优雅的洞察力，店员们都说道。

And about the war that was ensuing, Mrs. Osborne was not much alarmed; Bonaparty was to be crushed almost without a struggle. Margate packets were sailing every day, filled with men of fashion and ladies of note, on their way to Brussels and Ghent. People were going not so much to a war as to a fashionable tour. The newspapers laughed the wretched upstart and swindler to scorn. Such a Corsican wretch as that withstand the armies of Europe and the genius of the immortal Wellington! Amelia held him in utter contempt; for it needs not to be said that this soft and gentle creature took her opinions from those people who surrounded her, such fidelity being much too humble-minded to think for itself. Well, in a word, she and her mother performed a great day’s shopping, and she acquitted herself with considerable liveliness and credit on this her first appearance in the genteel world of London.
对于接下来发生的战争，奥斯本夫人并没有太惊慌。波拿巴党几乎不费吹灰之力就被镇压了。马盖特的包裹每天都载着时尚男士和名媛，驶向布鲁塞尔和根特。人们与其说是去参加战争，不如说是去时尚旅游。报纸嘲笑这个卑鄙的暴发户和骗子。这样一个科西嘉岛的可怜虫竟然能抵挡住欧洲的军队和不朽的威灵顿的天才！阿米莉亚完全蔑视他。因为不用说，这个温柔的女人从她周围的人那里得到了她的意见，这种忠诚太过谦虚，无法独立思考。嗯，总而言之，她和她的母亲度过了愉快的一天购物，她在伦敦上流社会的第一次亮相中表现得相当活泼和可信。

George meanwhile, with his hat on one side, his elbows squared, and his swaggering martial air, made for Bedford Row, and stalked into the attorney’s offices as if he was lord of every pale-faced clerk who was scribbling there. He ordered somebody to inform Mr. Higgs that Captain Osborne was waiting, in a fierce and patronizing way, as if the pekin of an attorney, who had thrice his brains, fifty times his money, and a thousand times his experience, was a wretched underling who should instantly leave all his business in life to attend on the Captain’s pleasure. He did not see the sneer of contempt which passed all round the room, from the first clerk to the articled gents, from the articled gents to the ragged writers and white-faced runners, in clothes too tight for them, as he sate there tapping his boot with his cane, and thinking what a parcel of miserable poor devils these were. The miserable poor devils knew all about his affairs. They talked about them over their pints of beer at their public-house clubs to other clerks of a night. Ye gods, what do not attorneys and attorneys’ clerks know in London! Nothing is hidden from their inquisition, and their families mutely rule our city.
与此同时，乔治帽子偏在一侧，肘部呈方形，带着大摇大摆的军人气派，向贝德福德街走去，大步走进律师办公室，仿佛他是每一个正在那里乱写乱画的苍白脸的职员的主人。他命人通知希格斯先生，奥斯本上尉正在等待，态度凶猛而居高临下，仿佛一个拥有三倍头脑、五十倍金钱和一千倍经验的北京律师是一个可怜的律师。下属应该立即放下生活中的所有事务来参加船长的宴请。当他坐在那儿轻敲着门时，他没有看到整个房间里弥漫着的轻蔑的冷笑，从第一位职员到那些穿衣的绅士，从那些穿着破烂的作家和穿着太紧的白脸跑步者。他拄着拐杖，踢着靴子，心想这些都是一群多么可怜的可怜虫啊。他的事，那些可怜的家伙都知道。当晚，他们在酒吧俱乐部一边喝着啤酒，一边向其他店员谈论这些事情。天哪，伦敦的律师和律师职员不知道什么！他们的调查毫无隐瞒，他们的家人默默地统治着我们的城市。

Perhaps George expected, when he entered Mr. Higgs’s apartment, to find that gentleman commissioned to give him some message of compromise or conciliation from his father; perhaps his haughty and cold demeanour was adopted as a sign of his spirit and resolution: but if so, his fierceness was met by a chilling coolness and indifference on the attorney’s part, that rendered swaggering absurd. He pretended to be writing at a paper, when the Captain entered. ‘Pray, sit down, sir,’ said he, ‘and I will attend to your little affair in a moment. Mr. Poe, get the release papers, if you please”; and then he fell to writing again.
也许乔治期望，当他进入希格斯先生的公寓时，会发现这位先生受他父亲的委托向他传达一些妥协或和解的信息；但他并没有这样做。也许他的傲慢和冷酷的举止被视为他的精神和决心的标志：但如果是这样，他的凶猛却遭到律师方面令人不寒而栗的冷静和冷漠的回应，这使得趾高气扬变得荒谬。当船长进来时，他假装正在写报纸。 “请坐下，先生，”他说道，“我一会儿会处理你的小事。”波先生，请拿走释放文件”；然后他又开始写作。

Poe having produced those papers, his chief calculated the amount of two thousand pounds stock at the rate of the day; and asked Captain Osborne whether he would take the sum in a cheque upon the bankers, or whether he should direct the latter to purchase stock to that amount. ‘One of the late Mrs. Osborne’s trustees is out of town,’ he said indifferently, ‘but my client wishes to meet your wishes, and have done with the business as quick as possible.’
坡出示了这些文件后，他的上司按照当天的汇率计算出了两千磅的库存量。并询问奥斯本船长是否会将这笔钱存入银行家的支票中，或者是否应该指示银行家购买该金额的股票。 “已故奥斯本夫人的一位受托人不在城里，”他冷漠地说，“但我的委托人希望满足您的愿望，并尽快处理完这件事。”

‘Give me a cheque, sir,’ said the Captain very surlily. ‘Damn the shillings and halfpence, sir,’ he added, as the lawyer was making out the amount of the draft; and, flattering himself that by this stroke of magnanimity he had put the old quiz to the blush, he stalked out of the office with the paper in his pocket.
“给我一张支票，先生，”船长阴沉地说道。 “该死的先令和半便士，先生，”当律师计算汇票的金额时，他补充道。他沾沾自喜地说，自己的这一大度举动让原来的测验变得面红耳赤，他口袋里揣着试卷，大步走出办公室。

‘That chap will be in gaol in two years,’ Mr. Higgs said to Mr. Poe.
“那家伙两年后就会进监狱，”希格斯先生对坡先生说。

‘Won’t O. come round, sir, don’t you think?’
“O不会醒悟吗，先生，你不觉得吗？”

‘Won’t the monument come round,’ Mr. Higgs replied.
“纪念碑不会转过来吗？”希格斯先生回答道。

‘He’s going it pretty fast,’ said the clerk. ‘He’s only married a week, and I saw him and some other military chaps handing Mrs. Highflyer to her carriage after the play.’ And then another case was called, and Mr. George Osborne thenceforth dismissed from these worthy gentlemen’s memory.
“他动作很快，”店员说。 “他结婚才一周，我看到他和其他一些军人在演出结束后把海飞耶夫人送到她的马车上。”然后又提起了另一个案件，乔治·奥斯本先生从此从这些可敬的绅士的记忆中消失了。

The draft was upon our friends Hulker and Bullock of Lombard Street, to whose house, still thinking he was doing business, George bent his way, and from whom he received his money. Frederick Bullock, Esq., whose yellow face was over a ledger, at which sate a demure clerk, happened to be in the banking-room when George entered. His yellow face turned to a more deadly colour when he saw the Captain, and he slunk back guiltily into the inmost parlour. George was too busy gloating over the money (for he had never had such a sum before), to mark the countenance or flight of the cadaverous suitor of his sister.
选秀权落在了我们来自朗伯德街的朋友浩克和布洛克的头上，乔治仍然以为自己是在做生意，于是弯着腰去了他们的房子，并从他们那里收到了钱。当乔治走进银行时，弗雷德里克·布洛克先生正好在银行房间里，他的黄脸埋在账本上，账本上坐着一位端庄的职员。当他看到船长时，他的黄脸变成了更致命的颜色，他愧疚地溜回了最里面的客厅。乔治正忙着为这笔钱沾沾自喜（因为他以前从未有过这么多钱），无暇留意他妹妹苍白的求婚者的表情或逃跑。

Fred Bullock told old Osborne of his son’s appearance and conduct. ‘He came in as bold as brass,’ said Frederick. ‘He has drawn out every shilling. How long will a few hundred pounds last such a chap as that?’ Osborne swore with a great oath that he little cared when or how soon he spent it. Fred dined every day in Russell Square now. But altogether, George was highly pleased with his day’s business. All his own baggage and outfit was put into a state of speedy preparation, and he paid Amelia’s purchases with cheques on his agents, and with the splendour of a lord.
弗雷德·布洛克向老奥斯本讲述了他儿子的外表和行为。 “他就像黄铜一样大胆，”弗雷德里克说。 “他已经拿出了每一先令。几百英镑对这样一个小伙子来说能维持多久？”奥斯本发誓，他不在乎何时或多久花掉这笔钱。弗雷德现在每天都在罗素广场吃饭。但总而言之，乔治对今天的工作非常满意。他自己的所有行李和装备都已迅速准备就绪，他用代理人的支票支付了阿米莉亚的购买费用，并表现出了领主的威严。

Chapter XXVII
第二十七章


In Which Amelia Joins Her Regiment
阿米莉亚加入她的军团

When Jos’s fine carriage drove up to the inn door at Chatham, the first face which Amelia recognized was the friendly countenance of Captain Dobbin, who had been pacing the street for an hour past in expectation of his friends’ arrival. The Captain, with shells on his frockcoat, and a crimson sash and sabre, presented a military appearance, which made Jos quite proud to be able to claim such an acquaintance, and the stout civilian hailed him with a cordiality very different from the reception which Jos vouchsafed to his friend in Brighton and Bond Street.
当乔斯的豪华马车驶到查塔姆的旅馆门口时，阿米莉亚认出的第一张脸是多宾船长友好的面容，他已经在街上踱步了一个小时，等待朋友们的到来。上尉的礼服外套上有贝壳，系着深红色的腰带，佩着军刀，一副军人的样子，这让乔斯为自己能结识这样的人而感到非常自豪，而这位粗壮的平民则以一种与之前接待时截然不同的热情向他致意。乔斯向他在布莱顿和邦德街的朋友提供了担保。

Along with the Captain was Ensign Stubble; who, as the barouche neared the inn, burst out with an exclamation of ‘By Jove! what a pretty girl”; highly applauding Osborne’s choice. Indeed, Amelia dressed in her wedding-pelisse and pink ribbons, with a flush in her face, occasioned by rapid travel through the open air, looked so fresh and pretty, as fully to justify the Ensign’s compliment. Dobbin liked him for making it. As he stepped forward to help the lady out of the carriage, Stubble saw what a pretty little hand she gave him, and what a sweet pretty little foot came tripping down the step. He blushed profusely, and made the very best bow of which he was capable; to which Amelia, seeing the number of the the regiment embroidered on the Ensign’s cap, replied with a blushing smile, and a curtsey on her part; which finished the young Ensign on the spot. Dobbin took most kindly to Mr. Stubble from that day, and encouraged him to talk about Amelia in their private walks, and at each other’s quarters. It became the fashion, indeed, among all the honest young fellows of the —th to adore and admire Mrs. Osborne. Her simple artless behaviour, and modest kindness of demeanour, won all their unsophisticated hearts; all which simplicity and sweetness are quite impossible to describe in print. But who has not beheld these among women, and recognised the presence of all sorts of qualities in them, even though they say no more to you than that they are engaged to dance the next quadrille, or that it is very hot weather? George, always the champion of his regiment, rose immensely in the opinion of the youth of the corps, by his gallantry in marrying this portionless young creature, and by his choice of such a pretty kind partner.
和船长一起的还有斯塔布尔少尉。当四轮马车接近客栈时，他突然惊呼“天哪！”多么漂亮的女孩”；高度赞扬奥斯本的选择。确实，阿米莉亚穿着婚纱，系着粉色丝带，在户外快速旅行，脸上泛着红晕，看起来如此清新美丽，完全值得少尉的称赞。多宾很喜欢他的成功。当他上前扶那位女士下马车时，斯塔布尔看到她向他伸出了一只多么漂亮的小手，一只可爱的小脚从台阶上绊了下来。他满脸通红，尽其所能地鞠了一躬。阿米莉亚看到少尉帽子上绣着的军团号码，红着脸微笑着回应，并行了屈膝礼。当场结束了年轻的少尉。从那天起，多宾就对斯塔布尔先生非常友善，并鼓励他在私人散步和彼此的住处谈论阿米莉亚。事实上，在所有诚实的年轻人中，崇拜和钦佩奥斯本夫人已成为一种时尚。她朴实无华的举止，谦虚善良的举止，赢得了所有朴实无华的心。所有这些简单和甜蜜是不可能用印刷来描述的。但是，谁没有在女性中看到过这些，并认识到她们身上存在着各种各样的品质，即使她们对你说的只是她们订婚了，要跳下一首卡德里尔舞，或者天气很热？乔治，一直是他所在团的冠军，他英勇地娶了这个没有财产的年轻人，并选择了一个如此漂亮和善的伴侣，在军团年轻人中的评价大大提高。

In the sitting-room which was awaiting the travellers, Amelia, to her surprise, found a letter addressed to Mrs. Captain Osborne. It was a triangular billet, on pink paper, and sealed with a dove and an olive branch, and a profusion of light blue sealing wax, and it was written in a very large, though undecided female hand.
在等待旅客的客厅里，阿米莉亚惊讶地发现了一封写给奥斯本船长夫人的信。它是一个三角形的坯料，在粉红色的纸上，用一只鸽子和一根橄榄枝以及大量的浅蓝色密封蜡密封，它是用一只很大但犹豫不决的女性手写的。

‘It’s Peggy O’Dowd’s fist,’ said George, laughing. ‘I know it by the kisses on the seal.’ And in fact, it was a note from Mrs. Major O’Dowd, requesting the pleasure of Mrs. Osborne’s company that very evening to a small friendly party. ‘You must go,’ George said. ‘You will make acquaintance with the regiment there. O’Dowd goes in command of the regiment, and Peggy goes in command.’
“这是佩吉·奥多德的拳头，”乔治笑着说。 “我从印章上的亲吻就知道了。”事实上，这是奥多德少校夫人的一封便条，请求奥斯本夫人当天晚上陪同参加一个小型友好聚会。 “你必须走，”乔治说。 “你会熟悉那里的军团。奥多德指挥该团，佩吉指挥。

But they had not been for many minutes in the enjoyment of Mrs. O’Dowd’s letter, when the door was flung open, and a stout jolly lady, in a riding-habit, followed by a couple of officers of Ours, entered the room.
但他们还没花几分钟欣赏奥多德夫人的信，门就被猛地推开，一位身着骑马服、身材魁梧、快活的女士在我们的几名军官的身后走进了房间。 。

‘Sure, I couldn’t stop till tay-time. Present me, Garge, my dear fellow, to your lady. Madam, I’m deloighted to see ye; and to present to you me husband, Meejor O’Dowd”; and with this, the jolly lady in the riding-habit grasped Amelia’s hand very warmly, and the latter knew at once that the lady was before her whom her husband had so often laughed at. ‘You’ve often heard of me from that husband of yours,’ said the lady, with great vivacity.
“当然，直到时间到了我都不能停下来。亲爱的朋友，加尔奇，请把我介绍给您的女士。女士，很高兴见到您；并向您介绍我的丈夫，Meejor O'Dowd”；说完，那位穿着骑马装的快乐的女士非常热情地握住了阿米莉亚的手，阿米莉亚立刻就知道这位女士就在她面前，她的丈夫经常嘲笑她。 “你经常从你丈夫那里听说过我，”那位女士非常活泼地说。

‘You’ve often heard of her,’ echoed her husband, the Major.
“你经常听说过她，”她的丈夫少校附和道。

Amelia answered, smiling, ‘that she had.’
阿米莉亚微笑着回答：“她有。”

‘And small good he’s told you of me,’ Mrs. O’Dowd replied; adding that ‘George was a wicked divvle.’
“他向你提起过我，这也是件小好事，”奥多德夫人回答道。并补充道，“乔治是个邪恶的家伙。”

‘That I’ll go bail for,’ said the Major, trying to look knowing, at which George laughed; and Mrs. O’Dowd, with a tap of her whip, told the Major to be quiet; and then requested to be presented in form to Mrs. Captain Osborne.
“我会保释的。”少校说道，试图装出一副懂事的样子，乔治笑了。奥多德夫人用鞭子轻轻一拍，叫少校安静。然后要求将表格提交给奥斯本船长夫人。

‘This, my dear,’ said George with great gravity, ‘is my very good, kind, and excellent friend, Auralia Margaretta, otherwise called Peggy.’
“亲爱的，”乔治严肃地说，“是我非常好的、善良的、优秀的朋友，奥拉莉亚·玛格丽塔，也叫佩吉。”

‘Faith, you’re right,’ interposed the Major.
“信仰，你是对的，”少校插嘴道。

‘Otherwise called Peggy, lady of Major Michael O’Dowd, of our regiment, and daughter of Fitzjurld Ber’sford de Burgo Malony of Glenmalony, County Kildare.’
“也叫佩吉，我们团迈克尔·奥多德少校的夫人，基尔代尔郡格伦马洛尼的菲茨尤尔德·贝尔斯福德·德·布尔戈·马洛尼的女儿。”

‘And Muryan Squeer, Doblin,’ said the lady with calm superiority.
“还有穆里安·斯奎尔、多布林。”那位女士带着平静的优越感说道。

‘And Muryan Square, sure enough,’ the Major whispered.
“当然还有穆里安广场，”少校低声说道。

‘‘Twas there ye coorted me, Meejor dear,’ the lady said; and the Major assented to this as to every other proposition which was made generally in company.
“亲爱的米乔，你就是在那里陪我的，”那位女士说道。少校同意了这一点，也同意了公司里普遍提出的所有其他建议。

Major O’Dowd, who had served his sovereign in every quarter of the world, and had paid for every step in his profession by some more than equivalent act of daring and gallantry, was the most modest, silent, sheep-faced and meek of little men, and as obedient to his wife as if he had been her tay-boy. At the mess-table he sat silently, and drank a great deal. When full of liquor, he reeled silently home. When he spoke, it was to agree with everybody on every conceivable point; and he passed through life in perfect ease and good-humour. The hottest suns of India never heated his temper; and the Walcheren ague never shook it. He walked up to a battery with just as much indifference as to a dinner-table; had dined on horse-flesh and turtle with equal relish and appetite; and had an old mother, Mrs. O’Dowd of O’Dowdstown indeed, whom he had never disobeyed but when he ran away and enlisted, and when he persisted in marrying that odious Peggy Malony.
奥多德少校曾在世界各地为他的君主服务过，他在职业生涯中的每一步都以某种超越同等的大胆和英勇的行为付出了代价，他是最谦虚、最沉默、最羊脸、最温顺的人。小个子，对妻子很顺从，就好像他是她的男仆一样。他静静地坐在餐桌旁，喝了很多酒。喝满酒后，他默默地摇摇晃晃地回家了。当他讲话时，他在每一个可以想象的观点上都同意每个人的观点。他的一生过得很轻松，心情也很好。印度最炎热的太阳从来没有让他发脾气。瓦尔赫伦疟疾也从未动摇过它。他像走向餐桌一样冷漠地走向炮台。吃过马肉和甲鱼，同样津津有味，胃口大开；他有一位年老的母亲，确实是奥多兹敦的奥多德夫人，除了他逃跑参军，以及坚持娶那个可恶的佩吉·马洛尼时，他从来没有违背过她的命令。

Peggy was one of five sisters, and eleven children of the noble house of Glenmalony; but her husband, though her own cousin, was of the mother’s side, and so had not the inestimable advantage of being allied to the Malonys, whom she believed to be the most famous family in the world. Having tried nine seasons at Dublin and two at Bath and Cheltenham, and not finding a partner for life, Miss Malony ordered her cousin Mick to marry her when she was about thirty-three years of age; and the honest fellow obeying, carried her off to the West Indies, to preside over the ladies of the —th regiment, into which he had just exchanged.
佩吉是格伦马洛尼贵族家族的五个姐妹和十一个孩子之一。但她的丈夫虽然是她的表弟，却是母亲一方的人，因此并没有与马洛尼家族结盟的不可估量的优势，她认为马洛尼家族是世界上最著名的家族。马洛尼小姐在都柏林尝试了九个季节，在巴斯和切尔滕纳姆尝试了两个季节，但没有找到终身伴侣，当她大约三十三岁时，马洛尼小姐命令她的表弟米克嫁给她；诚实的家伙听从了命令，把她带到了西印度群岛，去主持他刚刚调入的第—个团的女士们。

Before Mrs. O’Dowd was half an hour in Amelia’s (or indeed in anybody else’s) company, this amiable lady told all her birth and pedigree to her new friend. ‘My dear,’ said she, good-naturedly, ‘it was my intention that Garge should be a brother of my own, and my sister Glorvina would have suited him entirely. But as bygones are bygones, and he was engaged to yourself, why, I’m determined to take you as a sister instead, and to look upon you as such, and to love you as one of the family. Faith, you’ve got such a nice goodnatured face and way widg you, that I’m sure we’ll agree; and that you’ll be an addition to our family anyway.’
在奥多德夫人与阿米莉亚（或者实际上是其他任何人）陪伴之前，这位和蔼可亲的女士向她的新朋友讲述了她所有的出生和血统。 “亲爱的，”她和善地说，“我的意思是让加尔奇成为我自己的兄弟，而我的妹妹格洛维娜则完全适合他。但既然过去了，他已经和自己订婚了，所以，我决心把你当作妹妹，视你如家人，爱你如家人。老实说，你有一张如此善良的脸庞和你的方式，我相信我们会同意的；无论如何，你都会成为我们家庭的一员。

‘‘Deed and she will,’ said O’Dowd, with an approving air, and Amelia felt herself not a little amused and grateful to be thus suddenly introduced to so large a party of relations.
“她会的，”奥多德带着赞许的神情说道，阿米莉亚觉得自己很有趣，也很感激自己突然被介绍给这么一大群亲戚。

‘We’re all good fellows here,’ the Major’s lady continued. ‘There’s not a regiment in the service where you’ll find a more united society nor a more agreeable mess-room. There’s no quarrelling, bickering, slandthering, nor small talk amongst us. We all love each other.’
“我们这里都是好人，”少校的女士继续说道。 “在整个军种中，你找不到比这更团结的社会，也没有比这更令人愉快的餐厅了。我们之间没有争吵、争吵、诽谤，也没有闲聊。我们都彼此相爱。

‘Especially Mrs. Magenis,’ said George, laughing.
“尤其是马吉尼斯太太，”乔治笑着说。

‘Mrs. Captain Magenis and me has made up, though her treatment of me would bring me gray hairs with sorrow to the grave.’
'太太。马吉尼斯队长和我已经和解了，尽管她对待我的方式会让我带着悲伤到坟墓里白发苍苍。

‘And you with such a beautiful front of black, Peggy, my dear,’ the Major cried.
“亲爱的，佩吉，你有着如此美丽的黑色前额，”少校喊道。

‘Hould your tongue, Mick, you booby. Them husbands are always in the way, Mrs. Osborne, my dear; and as for my Mick, I often tell him he should never open his mouth but to give the word of command, or to put meat and drink into it. I’ll tell you about the regiment, and warn you when we’re alone. Introduce me to your brother now; sure he’s a mighty fine man, and reminds me of me cousin, Dan Malony (Malony of Ballymalony, my dear, you know who mar’ied Ophalia Scully, of Oystherstown, own cousin to Lord Poldoody). Mr. Sedley, sir, I’m deloighted to be made known te ye. I suppose you’ll dine at the mess to-day. (Mind that divvle of a docther, Mick, and whatever ye du, keep yourself sober for me party this evening.)’
“管住你的舌头，米克，你这个笨蛋。”奥斯本夫人，亲爱的，她们的丈夫总是碍事。至于我的米克，我经常告诉他，他永远不应该张开嘴，除非发出命令，或者把肉和饮料放进去。我会告诉你关于军团的事情，并在我们单独在一起时警告你。现在把我介绍给你的兄弟；当然，他是一个伟大的好人，让我想起了我的表弟丹·马洛尼（巴利马洛尼的马洛尼，亲爱的，你知道谁娶了奥瑟斯敦的奥菲莉亚·斯卡利，波尔杜迪勋爵的表弟）。塞德利先生，先生，我很高兴为您所知。我想你今天会在食堂吃饭。 （注意医生的秘密，米克，无论你做什么，今晚在我的聚会上保持清醒。）”

‘It’s the 150th gives us a farewell dinner, my love,’ interposed the Major, ‘but we’ll easy get a card for Mr. Sedley.’
“亲爱的，第 150 号为我们准备了告别晚宴，”少校插嘴道，“但我们很容易就能为塞德利先生拿到一张卡片。”

‘Run Simple (Ensign Simple, of Ours, my dear Amelia. I forgot to introjuice him to ye). Run in a hurry, with Mrs. Major O’Dowd’s compliments to Colonel Tavish, and Captain Osborne has brought his brothernlaw down, and will bring him to the 150th mess at five o’clock sharp—when you and I, my dear, will take a snack here, if you like.’ Before Mrs. O’Dowd’s speech was concluded, the young Ensign was trotting downstairs on his commission.
“简单地跑（我们的简单少尉，我亲爱的阿米莉亚。我忘了把他介绍给你们了）。”带着奥多德少校夫人对塔维什上校的致意，赶紧跑吧，奥斯本上尉已经把他的姐夫打倒了，并将在五点整把他带到第 150 食堂——那时你和我，亲爱的，会“如果你愿意的话，可以在这里吃点零食。”奥多德夫人的演讲还没结束，年轻的少尉就带着他的任务小跑着下楼了。

‘Obedience is the soul of the army. We will go to our duty while Mrs. O’Dowd will stay and enlighten you, Emmy,’ Captain Osborne said; and the two gentlemen, taking each a wing of the Major, walked out with that officer, grinning at each other over his head.
“服从是军队的灵魂。我们将去履行我们的职责，而奥多德夫人将留下来启发你，艾米。”奥斯本上尉说道。两位绅士各自带着少校的翅膀，和那位军官一起走出去，在他的头顶上互相微笑。

And, now having her new friend to herself, the impetuous Mrs: O’Dowd proceeded to pour out such a quantity of information as no poor little woman’s memory could ever tax itself to bear. She told Amelia a thousand particulars relative to the very numerous family of which the amazed young lady found herself a member. ‘Mrs. Heavytop, the Colonel’s wife, died in Jamaica of the yellow faver and a broken heart comboined, for the horrud old Colonel, with a head as bald as a cannon-ball, was making sheep’s eyes at a halfcaste girl there. Mrs. Magenis, though without education, was a good woman, but she had the divvle’s tongue, and would cheat her own mother at whist. Mrs. Captain Kirk must turn up her lobster eyes forsooth at the idea of an honest round game (wherein me fawther, as pious a man as ever went to church, me uncle Dane Malony, and our cousin the Bishop, took a hand at loo, or whist, every night of their lives). Nayther of ‘em’s goin’ with the regiment this time,’ Mrs. O’Dowd added. ‘Fanny Magenis stops with her mother, who sells small coal and potatoes, most likely, in Islington-town, hard by London, though she’s always bragging of her father’s ships, and pointing them out to us as they go up the river: and Mrs. Kirk and her children will stop here in Bethesda Place, to be nigh to her favourite preacher, Dr. Ramshorn. Mrs. Bunny’s in an interesting situation—faith, and she always is, then—and has given the Lieutenant seven already. And Ensign Posky’s wife, who joined two months before you, my dear, has quarl’d with Tom Posky a score of times, till you can hear’m all over the bar’ck (they say they’re come to broken pleets, and Tom never accounted for his black oi), and she’ll go back to her mother, who keeps a ladies’ siminary at Richmond—bad luck to her for running away from it! Where did ye get your finishing, my dear? I had moin, and no expince spared, at Madame Flanahan’s, at Ilyssus Grove, Booterstown, near Dublin, wid a Marchioness to teach us the true Parisian pronunciation, and a retired Mejor-General of the French service to put us through the exercise.’
现在有了她的新朋友，鲁莽的奥多德夫人开始倾诉出如此多的信息，任何可怜的小女人的记忆力都无法承受。她告诉阿米莉亚一千个与这个众多家庭有关的细节，这位惊讶的年轻女士发现自己是这个家庭的成员。 '太太。上校的妻子海维托普在牙买加死于黄蜂病，心碎了，因为那个可怕的老上校，秃头像炮弹，正在对那里的一个混血女孩做出羊眼。马吉尼斯太太虽然没有受过教育，但她是个好女人，但她的舌头很狡猾，在惠斯特牌比赛中会欺骗自己的母亲。柯克船长夫人一定会在诚实的回合游戏中睁大她的龙虾眼（在游戏中，我的父亲，一个一如既往去教堂的虔诚人，我的叔叔戴恩·马洛尼和我们的表弟主教，在游戏中伸出了手。 ，或惠斯特，他们生命中的每个晚上）。奥多德夫人补充道，这次“他们不会随团去”。 “范妮·马吉尼斯和她母亲一起停下来，她很可能在伦敦附近的伊斯灵顿镇卖小煤炭和土豆，尽管她总是吹嘘她父亲的船只，并在它们逆流而上时向我们指出：柯克夫人和她的孩子们将在贝塞斯达广场停留，靠近她最喜欢的传教士拉姆肖恩博士。兔子夫人的处境很有趣——老实说，她一直都是这样——而且已经给了中尉七分。 亲爱的，波斯基少尉的妻子比你早加入两个月，她已经和汤姆·波斯基吵了二十次了，直到你在酒吧里都能听到他们的声音（他们说他们是来破坏的，汤姆从来没有考虑过他的黑色oi），她会回到她母亲那里，她在里士满保留了一位女士假想师——她逃离它会带来厄运！亲爱的，你在哪里完成的？我不惜一切代价，在都柏林附近的布特斯敦伊利苏斯格罗夫的弗拉纳汉夫人那里，请一位侯爵夫人教我们真正的巴黎发音，还有一位退休的法国陆军少将来指导我们练习。’

Of this incongruous family our astonished Amelia found herself all of a sudden a member: with Mrs. O’Dowd as an elder sister. She was presented to her other female relations at tea-time, on whom, as she was quiet, good-natured, and not too handsome, she made rather an agreeable impression until the arrival of the gentlemen from the mess of the 150th, who all admired her so, that her sisters began, of course, to find fault with her.
我们惊讶的阿米莉亚突然发现自己成了这个不协调的家庭的一员：奥多德夫人是她的姐姐。下午茶时间，她被介绍给她的其他女性亲戚，因为她安静、脾气好、不太英俊，所以给她们留下了相当愉快的印象，直到来自 150 号混乱的绅士们到来。所有人都如此钦佩她，以至于她的姐妹们当然开始挑剔她。

‘I hope Osborne has sown his wild oats,’ said Mrs. Magenis to Mrs. Bunny. ‘If a reformed rake makes a good husband, sure it’s she will have the fine chance with Garge,’ Mrs. O’Dowd remarked to Posky, who had lost her position as bride in the regiment, and was quite angry with the usurper. And as for Mrs. Kirk: that disciple of Dr. Ramshorn put one or two leading professional questions to Amelia, to see whether she was awakened, whether she was a professing Christian and so forth, and finding from the simplicity of Mrs. Osborne’s replies that she was yet in utter darkness, put into her hands three little penny books with pictures, viz., the ‘Howling Wilderness,’ the ‘Washerwoman of Wandsworth Common,’ and the ‘British Soldier’s best Bayonet,’ which, bent upon awakening her before she slept, Mrs. Kirk begged Amelia to read that night ere she went to bed.
“我希望奥斯本已经播下了他的野燕麦，”马吉尼斯夫人对兔子夫人说。 “如果一个改过自新的浪荡子能成为一个好丈夫，那么她肯定会和加尔奇有很好的机会，”奥多德夫人对波斯基说道。波斯基已经失去了团里新娘的地位，并对篡位者感到非常愤怒。至于柯克夫人：拉姆肖恩博士的弟子向阿米莉亚提出了一两个主要的专业问题，看看她是否觉醒，是否是一名自称的基督徒等等，并从奥斯本夫人的简单回答中发现得知她还处于完全的黑暗中，她把三本带图画的小便士书放在她手里，即《嚎叫的荒野》、《旺兹沃斯公地的洗衣妇》和《英国士兵最好的刺刀》，一心想唤醒这本书。柯克夫人在睡觉前恳求阿米莉亚在那天晚上睡觉前读书。

But all the men, like good fellows as they were, rallied round their comrade’s pretty wife, and paid her their court with soldierly gallantry. She had a little triumph, which flushed her spirits and made her eyes sparkle. George was proud of her popularity, and pleased with the manner (which was very gay and graceful, though naive and a little timid) with which she received the gentlemen’s attentions, and answered their compliments. And he in his uniform— how much handsomer he was than any man in the room! She felt that he was affectionately watching her, and glowed with pleasure at his kindness. ‘I will make all his friends welcome,’ she resolved in her heart. ‘I will love all as I love him. I will always try and be gay and good-humoured and make his home happy.’
但所有的男人都像好人一样，团结在他们战友漂亮的妻子身边，以军人般的英勇向她求爱。她有一丝胜利的喜悦，这让她精神焕发，眼睛闪闪发亮。乔治为她的受欢迎程度感到自豪，并对她接受绅士们的关注和回应他们的赞美的方式（非常快乐和优雅，尽管天真和有点胆怯）感到满意。而他穿着制服——他比房间里的任何一个男人都要英俊得多！她感觉到他正在深情地注视着她，并因他的善意而感到高兴。 “我会让他所有的朋友都受到欢迎。”她心里暗下决心。 ‘我会爱所有人，就像我爱他一样。我会一直努力变得快乐、幽默，让他的家幸福。”

The regiment indeed adopted her with acclamation. The Captains approved, the Lieutenants applauded, the Ensigns admired. Old Cutler, the Doctor, made one or two jokes, which, being professional, need not be repeated; and Cackle, the Assistant M.D. of Edinburgh, condescended to examine her upon leeterature, and tried her with his three best French quotations. Young Stubble went about from man to man whispering, ‘Jove, isn’t she a pretty gal?’ and never took his eyes off her except when the negus came in.
团里确实鼓掌地收养了她。上尉们赞同，中尉们鼓掌，少尉们钦佩。老卡特勒博士开了一两个玩笑，出于职业原因，无需重复。爱丁堡的助理医学博士卡克尔屈尊通过文献对她进行了检查，并用他最好的三句法语引文对她进行了考验。小斯塔布尔从一个男人走到另一个男人，低声说道：“天哪，她不是一个漂亮的女孩吗？”除了黑鬼进来的时候，他的目光一直没有离开过她。

As for Captain Dobbin, he never so much as spoke to her during the whole evening. But he and Captain Porter of the 150th took home Jos to the hotel, who was in a very maudlin state, and had told his tiger-hunt story with great effect, both at the mess-table and at the soiree, to Mrs. O’Dowd in her turban and bird of paradise. Having put the Collector into the hands of his servant, Dobbin loitered about, smoking his cigar before the inn door. George had meanwhile very carefully shawled his wife, and brought her away from Mrs. O’Dowd’s after a general handshaking from the young officers, who accompanied her to the fly, and cheered that vehicle as it drove off. So Amelia gave Dobbin her little hand as she got out of the carriage, and rebuked him smilingly for not having taken any notice of her all night.
至于多宾船长，整个晚上他都没跟她说过话。但他和第 150 团的波特上尉把乔斯带回了旅馆，当时乔斯的心情非常伤感，并在餐桌上和晚会上向 O 夫人讲述了他的猎虎故事，取得了巨大的效果。 “多德戴着头巾，戴着天堂鸟。将收藏家交到仆人手中后，多宾在客栈门口闲逛，抽着雪茄。与此同时，乔治非常小心地给他的妻子披上披肩，并在与陪同她上飞机的年轻军官们握手后，将她带离奥多德夫人的家，这些年轻军官陪着她上了飞机，并在车辆开走时为它欢呼。于是，阿米莉亚下了马车，向多宾伸出了她的小手，微笑地责备他整晚都没有注意到她。

The Captain continued that deleterious amusement of smoking, long after the inn and the street were gone to bed. He watched the lights vanish from George’s sitting-room windows, and shine out in the bedroom close at hand. It was almost morning when he returned to his own quarters. He could hear the cheering from the ships in the river, where the transports were already taking in their cargoes preparatory to dropping down the Thames.
客栈和街道都已入睡很久之后，船长仍继续以吸烟这种有害的方式进行娱乐。他看着灯光从乔治客厅的窗户消失，照进附近的卧室。回到自己的住处时，已经是凌晨了。他能听到河里船只发出的欢呼声，运输船已经开始装载货物，准备顺泰晤士河漂流。

Chapter XXVIII
第二十八章


In Which Amelia Invades the Low Countries
《阿米莉亚入侵低地国家》

The regiment with its officers was to be transported in ships provided by His Majesty’s government for the occasion: and in two days after the festive assembly at Mrs. O’Dowd’s apartments, in the midst of cheering from all the East India ships in the river, and the military on shore, the band playing ‘God Save the King,’ the officers waving their hats, and the crews hurrahing gallantly, the transports went down the river and proceeded under convoy to Ostend. Meanwhile the gallant Jos had agreed to escort his sister and the Major’s wife, the bulk of whose goods and chattels, including the famous bird of paradise and turban, were with the regimental baggage: so that our two heroines drove pretty much unencumbered to Ramsgate, where there were plenty of packets plying, in one of which they had a speedy passage to Ostend.
该团及其军官将乘坐国王陛下政府为这次活动提供的船只：在奥多德夫人的公寓举行节日集会两天后，在河中所有东印度船只的欢呼声中岸上的军队，乐队演奏着《上帝保佑国王》，军官们挥舞着帽子，船员们英勇地欢呼着，运输船顺流而下，在护航下前往奥斯坦德。与此同时，勇敢的乔斯同意护送他的妹妹和少校的妻子，他们的大部分货物和动产，包括著名的天堂鸟和头巾，都与团行李一起：因此我们的两位女英雄几乎没有任何阻碍地开车前往拉姆斯盖特，那里有很多包裹在往来，其中一个包裹可以快速到达奥斯坦德。

That period of Jos’s life which now ensued was so full of incident, that it served him for conversation for many years after, and even the tiger-hunt story was put aside for more stirring narratives which he had to tell about the great campaign of Waterloo. As soon as he had agreed to escort his sister abroad, it was remarked that he ceased shaving his upper lip. At Chatham he followed the parades and drills with great assiduity. He listened with the utmost attention to the conversation of his brother officers (as he called them in after days sometimes), and learned as many military names as he could. In these studies the excellent Mrs. O’Dowd was of great assistance to him; and on the day finally when they embarked on board the Lovely Rose, which was to carry them to their destination, he made his appearance in a braided frock-coat and duck trousers, with a foraging cap ornamented with a smart gold band. Having his carriage with him, and informing everybody on board confidentially that he was going to join the Duke of Wellington’s army, folks mistook him for a great personage, a commissary-general, or a government courier at the very least.
乔斯一生中的那段时期充满了事件，以至于他在以后的许多年里都可以谈论这件事，甚至狩猎老虎的故事也被搁置一边，转而讲述他不得不讲述的关于滑铁卢伟大战役的更激动人心的故事。 。当他同意护送妹妹出国时，有人说他不再刮上唇毛了。在查塔姆，他非常孜孜不倦地关注游行和演习。他全神贯注地倾听他的兄弟军官们的谈话（有时他会在几天后称呼他们），并尽可能多地了解军事名字。在这些研究中，优秀的奥多德夫人给了他很大的帮助。最后，当他们登上“可爱玫瑰”号（这艘船将载着他们前往目的地）的那天，他穿着编织礼服大衣和鸭腿裤出现，戴着一顶饰有漂亮金带的采食帽。他带着他的马车，并秘密地通知车上的每个人他将加入威灵顿公爵的军队，人们误认为他是一位伟人，一位军需将军，或者至少是一位政府信使。

He suffered hugely on the voyage, during which the ladies were likewise prostrate; but Amelia was brought to life again as the packet made Ostend, by the sight of the transports conveying her regiment, which entered the harbour almost at the same time with the Lovely Rose. Jos went in a collapsed state to an inn, while Captain Dobbin escorted the ladies, and then busied himself in freeing Jos’s carriage and luggage from the ship and the custom-house, for Mr. Jos was at present without a servant, Osborne’s man and his own pampered menial having conspired together at Chatham, and refused point-blank to cross the water. This revolt, which came very suddenly, and on the last day, so alarmed Mr. Sedley, junior, that he was on the point of giving up the expedition, but Captain Dobbin (who made himself immensely officious in the business, Jos said), rated him and laughed at him soundly: the mustachios were grown in advance, and Jos finally was persuaded to embark. In place of the well-bred and well-fed London domestics, who could only speak English, Dobbin procured for Jos’s party a swarthy little Belgian servant who could speak no language at all; but who, by his bustling behaviour, and by invariably addressing Mr. Sedley as ‘My lord,’ speedily acquired that gentleman’s favour. Times are altered at Ostend now; of the Britons who go thither, very few look like lords, or act like those members of our hereditary aristocracy. They seem for the most part shabby in attire, dingy of linen, lovers of billiards and brandy, and cigars and greasy ordinaries.
他在航行中遭受了巨大的痛苦，而女士们也同样跪倒在地。但当包裹到达奥斯坦德时，阿米莉亚又复活了，看到运送她的团的运输船几乎与可爱的玫瑰号同时进入港口。乔斯昏迷不醒地去了一家旅馆，多宾船长护送女士们，然后忙着把乔斯的马车和行李从船上和海关解救出来，因为乔斯先生目前没有仆人，奥斯本的手下和他自己的养尊处优的仆人在查塔姆密谋，并且直接拒绝过河。这次叛乱来得非常突然，而且发生在最后一天，惊动了小塞德利先生，他几乎要放弃这次探险了，但多宾船长（乔斯说，他在这件事上非常管事） ，评价他并大声嘲笑他：小胡子提前长好，乔斯终于被说服上船了。多宾为乔斯的队伍找到了一个皮肤黝黑、根本不会说任何语言的比利时小仆人，代替了那些只会说英语的有教养、吃得饱饱的伦敦家仆。但由于他忙碌的举止，以及总是称呼塞德利先生为“大人”，他很快就赢得了这位绅士的青睐。奥斯坦德的时间现在有所改变；在去那里的英国人中，很少有人看起来像领主，或者表现得像我们世袭贵族的成员。他们大多衣着破旧，亚麻布肮脏，喜欢台球和白兰地，喜欢雪茄和油腻的普通东西。

But it may be said as a rule, that every Englishman in the Duke of Wellington’s army paid his way. The remembrance of such a fact surely becomes a nation of shopkeepers. It was a blessing for a commerce-loving country to be overrun by such an army of customers: and to have such creditable warriors to feed. And the country which they came to protect is not military. For a long period of history they have let other people fight there. When the present writer went to survey with eagle glance the field of Waterloo, we asked the conductor of the diligence, a portly warlike-looking veteran, whether he had been at the battle. ‘Pas si bete’—such an answer and sentiment as no Frenchman would own to—was his reply. But, on the other hand, the postilion who drove us was a Viscount, a son of some bankrupt Imperial General, who accepted a pennyworth of beer on the road. The moral is surely a good one.
但可以说，作为一项规则，惠灵顿公爵军队中的每一个英国人都是自己付钱的。对这一事实的记住肯定会成为一个店主的国家。对于一个热爱商业的国家来说，能够被如此庞大的客户大军所占领，并能养活如此值得信赖的战士，真是一件幸事。他们来保护的国家不是军事国家。在很长一段历史中，他们让其他人在那里战斗。当笔者以鹰眼般的方式勘察滑铁卢战场时，我们询问勤奋指挥者、一位肥胖、看上去好战的老兵，他是否参加过战斗。他的回答是“Pas si bete”——没有一个法国人会承认这样的回答和情感。但是，另一方面，开车送我们去的司机是一位子爵，是某个破产的帝国将军的儿子，他在路上接受了价值一便士的啤酒。道德肯定是好的。

This flat, flourishing, easy country never could have looked more rich and prosperous than in that opening summer of 1815, when its green fields and quiet cities were enlivened by multiplied redcoats: when its wide chaussees swarmed with brilliant English equipages: when its great canal-boats, gliding by rich pastures and pleasant quaint old villages, by old chateaux lying amongst old trees, were all crowded with well-to-do English travellers: when the soldier who drank at the village inn, not only drank, but paid his score; and Donald, the Highlander, billeted in the Flemish farmhouse, rocked the baby’s cradle, while Jean and Jeannette were out getting in the hay. As our painters are bent on military subjects just now, I throw out this as a good subject for the pencil, to illustrate the principle of an honest English war. All looked as brilliant and harmless as a Hyde Park review. Meanwhile, Napoleon screened behind his curtain of frontier-fortresses, was preparing for the outbreak which was to drive all these orderly people into fury and blood; and lay so many of them low.
这个平坦、繁荣、安逸的国家在 1815 年的那个夏天显得无比富裕和繁荣，当时它的绿色田野和安静的城市因大量的红衣而变得生机勃勃：当时它宽阔的马车上挤满了辉煌的英国马车：当时它的大运河——船只驶过肥沃的牧场和宜人古雅的古老村庄，驶过古树丛中的古老城堡，船上都挤满了富有的英国旅客：当士兵在乡村旅馆喝酒时，不仅喝了酒，而且还付了钱分数;住在佛兰德农舍里的高地人唐纳德摇着婴儿的摇篮，而琼和珍妮特则出去干草。由于我们的画家现在正热衷于军事题材，所以我把它作为铅笔的好题材扔掉，以说明诚实的英国战争的原则。一切看起来都像海德公园的评论一样精彩而无害。与此同时，拿破仑躲在边境堡垒的幕后，正在为爆发做好准备，这场爆发将使所有这些有秩序的人们陷入愤怒和流血之中；并把他们中的许多人打倒了。

Everybody had such a perfect feeling of confidence in the leader (for the resolute faith which the Duke of Wellington had inspired in the whole English nation was as intense as that more frantic enthusiasm with which at one time the French regarded Napoleon), the country seemed in so perfect a state of orderly defence, and the help at hand in case of need so near and overwhelming, that alarm was unknown, and our travellers, among whom two were naturally of a very timid sort, were, like all the other multiplied English tourists, entirely at ease. The famous regiment, with so many of whose officers we have made acquaintance, was drafted in canal boats to Bruges and Ghent, thence to march to Brussels. Jos accompanied the ladies in the public boats; the which all old travellers in Flanders must remember for the luxury and accommodation they afforded. So prodigiously good was the eating and drinking on board these sluggish but most comfortable vessels, that there are legends extant of an English traveller, who, coming to Belgium for a week, and travelling in one of these boats, was so delighted with the fare there that he went backwards and forwards from Ghent to Bruges perpetually until the railroads were invented, when he drowned himself on the last trip of the passage-boat. Jos’s death was not to be of this sort, but his comfort was exceeding, and Mrs. O’Dowd insisted that he only wanted her sister Glorvina to make his happiness complete. He sate on the roof of the cabin all day drinking Flemish beer, shouting for Isidor, his servant, and talking gallantly to the ladies.
每个人都对这位领袖抱有一种完美的信心（惠灵顿公爵在整个英国所激发的坚定信念与法国人一度对拿破仑的狂热热情一样强烈），这个国家似乎在如此完美的有序防御状态下，在需要时如此接近和势不可挡的情况下，手头的帮助是未知的，而我们的旅行者，其中有两个人天生胆怯，像所有其他人一样成倍增加英国游客，完全放心。这个著名的军团，我们已经认识了很多军官，他们被征召乘坐运河船前往布鲁日和根特，然后从那里向布鲁塞尔进军。乔斯在公共船上陪伴女士们。所有佛兰德斯的老游客都必须记住这里提供的奢华和住宿。这些缓慢但最舒适的船上的饮食非常好，以至于有一个英国旅行者的传说，他来比利时一周，乘坐其中一艘船旅行，对票价非常满意在那里，他不断地从根特到布鲁日来回奔波，直到铁路发明，他在客船的最后一次旅行中淹死了。乔斯的死本不是这样的，但他感到非常安慰，奥多德夫人坚持说他只想让她的妹妹格洛维娜让他幸福。他整天坐在小屋的屋顶上喝佛兰德斯啤酒，大声呼唤他的仆人伊西多尔，并与女士们殷勤地交谈。

His courage was prodigious. ‘Boney attack us!’ he cried. ‘My dear creature, my poor Emmy, don’t be frightened. There’s no danger. The allies will be in Paris in two months, I tell you; when I’ll take you to dine in the Palais Royal, by Jove! There are three hundred thousand Rooshians, I tell you, now entering France by Mayence and the Rhine—three hundred thousand under Wittgenstein and Barclay de Tolly, my poor love. You don’t know military affairs, my dear. I do, and I tell you there’s no infantry in France can stand against Rooshian infantry, and no general of Boney’s that’s fit to hold a candle to Wittgenstein. Then there are the Austrians, they are five hundred thousand if a man, and they are within ten marches of the frontier by this time, under Schwartzenberg and Prince Charles. Then there are the Prooshians under the gallant Prince Marshal. Show me a cavalry chief like him now that Murat is gone. Hey, Mrs. O’Dowd? Do you think our little girl here need be afraid? Is there any cause for fear, Isidor? Hey, sir? Get some more beer.’
他的勇气是惊人的。 “骨头攻击我们！”他喊道。 “我亲爱的生物，我可怜的艾美，不要害怕。没有危险。我告诉你，盟军将在两个月内抵达巴黎；当我带你去皇家宫殿吃饭时，朱庇特！我告诉你，现在有三十万鲁什人，正经美因斯和莱茵河进入法国——三十万在维特根斯坦和巴克莱·德·托利的带领下，我可怜的爱人。你不懂军事，亲爱的。我愿意，而且我告诉你，法国没有任何步兵可以对抗鲁什步兵，博尼的将军也没有一个可以与维特根斯坦相提并论。然后是奥地利人，如果一个人的话，他们有五十万，此时他们在施瓦岑贝格和查尔斯王子的领导下，已经距离边境不到十个行军了。还有英勇的元帅王子麾下的普罗什人。既然缪拉走了，请给我看看像他这样的骑兵首领。嘿，奥多德夫人？你认为我们的小女孩需要害怕吗？伊西多尔，有什么理由害怕吗？嘿，先生？再来点啤酒。

Mrs. O’Dowd said that her ‘Glorvina was not afraid of any man alive, let alone a Frenchman,’ and tossed off a glass of beer with a wink which expressed her liking for the beverage.
奥多德夫人说，她的“格洛维娜不怕任何活着的男人，更不用说法国人了”，并眨了眨眼，扔掉了一杯啤酒，表达了她对这种饮料的喜爱。

Having frequently been in presence of the enemy, or, in other words, faced the ladies at Cheltenham and Bath, our friend, the Collector, had lost a great deal of his pristine timidity, and was now, especially when fortified with liquor, as talkative as might be. He was rather a favourite with the regiment, treating the young officers with sumptuosity, and amusing them by his military airs. And as there is one well-known regiment of the army which travels with a goat heading the column, whilst another is led by a deer, George said with respect to his brother-in-law, that his regiment marched with an elephant.
由于经常与敌人打交道，或者换句话说，面对切尔滕纳姆和巴斯的女士们，我们的朋友，收藏家，已经失去了很多他原始的胆怯，现在，尤其是在喝了酒的情况下，可能很健谈。他很受团里的喜爱，对待年轻军官们很奢侈，他的军人气质让他们很开心。乔治在谈到他的姐夫时说，由于有一个著名的军团在行进中以山羊为首，而另一个军团则以鹿为首，乔治在谈到他的姐夫时说，他的团以大象为首。

Since Amelia’s introduction to the regiment, George began to be rather ashamed of some of the company to which he had been forced to present her; and determined, as he told Dobbin (with what satisfaction to the latter it need not be said), to exchange into some better regiment soon, and to get his wife away from those damned vulgar women. But this vulgarity of being ashamed of one’s society is much more common among men than women (except very great ladies of fashion, who, to be sure, indulge in it); and Mrs. Amelia, a natural and unaffected person, had none of that artificial shamefacedness which her husband mistook for delicacy on his own part. Thus Mrs. O’Dowd had a cock’s plume in her hat, and a very large ‘repayther’ on her stomach, which she used to ring on all occasions, narrating how it had been presented to her by her fawther, as she stipt into the car’ge after her mar’ge; and these ornaments, with other outward peculiarities of the Major’s wife, gave excruciating agonies to Captain Osborne, when his wife and the Major’s came in contact; whereas Amelia was only amused by the honest lady’s eccentricities, and not in the least ashamed of her company.
自从阿米莉亚被介绍到团里后，乔治开始对他被迫把她介绍给连队的一些人感到相当羞愧。正如他告诉多宾的那样（不必多说，后者的满意度如何），他决心尽快调入更好的军团，让他的妻子远离那些该死的粗俗女人。但这种为自己的社会感到羞耻的粗俗行为在男性中比在女性中更为常见（除了那些非常伟大的时尚女士，当然，她们也沉迷于这种行为）。阿米莉亚夫人是一个自然、不做作的人，没有那种被她丈夫误认为是温柔的人为的羞耻感。因此，奥多德夫人的帽子上插着一根公鸡的羽毛，肚子上有一个很大的“回报”，她在任何场合都会敲响它，讲述当她走进去时，她的父亲如何将它呈现给她。追随她夫人的车；当奥斯本上尉的妻子和少校的妻子接触时，这些装饰品以及少校妻子的其他外表特征给奥斯本上尉带来了难以忍受的痛苦。而阿米莉亚只是被这位诚实的女士的怪癖逗乐，并没有因为有她的陪伴而感到羞耻。

As they made that well-known journey, which almost every Englishman of middle rank has travelled since, there might have been more instructive, but few more entertaining, companions than Mrs. Major O’Dowd. ‘Talk about kenal boats; my dear! Ye should see the kenal boats between Dublin and Ballinasloe. It’s there the rapid travelling is; and the beautiful cattle. Sure me fawther got a goold medal (and his Excellency himself eat a slice of it, and said never was finer mate in his loif) for a four-year-old heifer, the like of which ye never saw in this country any day.’ And Jos owned with a sigh, ‘that for good streaky beef, really mingled with fat and lean, there was no country like England.’
当他们踏上那段著名的旅程时，几乎每个英国中产阶级都曾经历过这段旅程，其中可能有比奥多德少校夫人更具启发性但也更有趣的同伴了。 “谈论肯纳尔船；亲爱的！你应该看看都柏林和巴利纳斯洛之间的肯纳尔船。快速旅行就在那里；还有美丽的牛。当然，我的父亲为一头四岁的小母牛获得了一枚金奖章（他的阁下亲自吃了一块，并说他的公牛从来没有比这更好的伴侣了），这样的东西你们在这个国家从来没有见过。 ” 乔斯叹了口气，承认道：“没有哪个国家能像英格兰那样提供优质的五花牛肉，真正将脂肪和瘦肉混合在一起。”

‘Except Ireland, where all your best mate comes from,’ said the Major’s lady; proceeding, as is not unusual with patriots of her nation, to make comparisons greatly in favour of her own country. The idea of comparing the market at Bruges with those of Dublin, although she had suggested it herself, caused immense scorn and derision on her part. ‘I’ll thank ye tell me what they mean by that old gazabo on the top of the market-place,’ said she, in a burst of ridicule fit to have brought the old tower down. The place was full of English soldiery as they passed. English bugles woke them in the morning; at nightfall they went to bed to the note of the British fife and drum: all the country and Europe was in arms, and the greatest event of history pending: and honest Peggy O’Dowd, whom it concerned as well as another, went on prattling about Ballinafad, and the horses in the stables at Glenmalony, and the clar’t drunk there; and Jos Sedley interposed about curry and rice at Dumdum; and Amelia thought about her husband, and how best she should show her love for him; as if these were the great topics of the world.
“除了爱尔兰，你所有最好的伙伴都来自那里，”少校的女士说；继续进行非常有利于她自己的国家的比较，这对她的国家的爱国者来说并不罕见。尽管她自己提出了将布鲁日市场与都柏林市场进行比较的想法，但引起了她的极大蔑视和嘲笑。 “我会感谢你们告诉我市场顶部的那个旧凉亭是什么意思，”她说，一阵嘲笑，就像把旧塔推倒了一样。他们经过的时候，这个地方挤满了英国士兵。早晨，英国军号将他们叫醒；夜幕降临，他们伴着英国横笛和鼓声上床睡觉：整个国家和欧洲都已武装起来，历史上最伟大的事件即将发生：而诚实的佩吉·奥多德（Peggy O'Dowd），与这件事和另一个人有关，继续说下去。喋喋不休地谈论巴利纳法德、格兰马洛尼马厩里的马匹以及那里的克拉克酒。乔斯·塞德利 (Jos Sedley) 介入了达姆杜姆 (Dumdum) 的咖喱和米饭；阿米莉亚想到了她的丈夫，想到了她应该如何最好地表达对他的爱。仿佛这些都是世界上最伟大的话题。

Those who like to lay down the History-book, and to speculate upon what MIGHT have happened in the world, but for the fatal occurrence of what actually did take place (a most puzzling, amusing, ingenious, and profitable kind of meditation), have no doubt often thought to themselves what a specially bad time Napoleon took to come back from Elba, and to let loose his eagle from Gulf San Juan to Notre Dame. The historians on our side tell us that the armies of the allied powers were all providentially on a war-footing, and ready to bear down at a moment’s notice upon the Elban Emperor. The august jobbers assembled at Vienna, and carving out the kingdoms of Europe according to their wisdom, had such causes of quarrel among themselves as might have set the armies which had overcome Napoleon to fight against each other, but for the return of the object of unanimous hatred and fear. This monarch had an army in full force because he had jobbed to himself Poland, and was determined to keep it: another had robbed half Saxony, and was bent upon maintaining his acquisition: Italy was the object of a third’s solicitude. Each was protesting against the rapacity of the other; and could the Corsican but have waited in prison until all these parties were by the ears, he might have returned and reigned unmolested. But what would have become of our story and all our friends, then? If all the drops in it were dried up, what would become of the sea?
那些喜欢放下历史书，推测世界上可能发生的事情，但对于实际发生的事情的致命事件的人（一种最令人费解、有趣、巧妙且有利可图的冥想），毫无疑问，拿破仑从厄尔巴岛回来，从圣胡安湾放飞鹰到巴黎圣母院，是多么艰难的一段时光。我们这边的历史学家告诉我们，盟军的军队都处于战备状态，随时准备向厄尔巴尼皇帝发起进攻。威严的商人聚集在维也纳，按照他们的智慧开拓欧洲王国，他们之间有很多争吵的原因，如果不是为了夺回拿破仑的目标，打败拿破仑的军队可能会互相争斗。一致的仇恨和恐惧。这位君主拥有一支全力以赴的军队，因为他把波兰据为己有，并决心保留它；另一个君主抢走了半个萨克森，并决心维持他的占领：意大利是第三个国家关心的对象。双方都在抗议对方的贪婪。如果科西嘉人在监狱里等待，直到所有这些政党都在耳边，他可能会回来并不受干扰地统治。但我们的故事和我们所有的朋友会变成什么样子呢？如果大海里的水滴都干了，大海会变成什么样子呢？

In the meanwhile the business of life and living, and the pursuits of pleasure, especially, went on as if no end were to be expected to them, and no enemy in front. When our travellers arrived at Brussels, in which their regiment was quartered, a great piece of good fortune, as all said, they found themselves in one of the gayest and most brilliant little capitals in Europe, and where all the Vanity Fair booths were laid out with the most tempting liveliness and splendour. Gambling was here in profusion, and dancing in plenty: feasting was there to fill with delight that great gourmand of a Jos: there was a theatre where a miraculous Catalani was delighting all hearers: beautiful rides, all enlivened with martial splendour; a rare old city, with strange costumes and wonderful architecture, to delight the eyes of little Amelia, who had never before seen a foreign country, and fill her with charming surprises: so that now and for a few weeks’ space in a fine handsome lodging, whereof the expenses were borne by Jos and Osborne, who was flush of money and full of kind attentions to his wife—for about a fortnight, I say, during which her honeymoon ended, Mrs. Amelia was as pleased and happy as any little bride out of England.
与此同时，生活和生活的事务，尤其是对享乐的追求，继续进行，仿佛他们没有尽头，前方也没有敌人。当我们的旅客到达布鲁塞尔时，他们的团驻扎在布鲁塞尔，正如大家所说，这是一个巨大的好运，他们发现自己来到了欧洲最快乐、最辉煌的小首都之一，所有《名利场》的摊位都在那里。展现出最诱人的生机和绚丽。这里赌博盛行，舞蹈盛行：那里有盛宴，让乔斯的大饕餮充满喜悦：有一个剧院，神奇的卡塔拉尼让所有的听众都高兴不已：美丽的游乐设施，充满了军事的辉煌；一座罕见的古老城市，有着奇特的服饰和美妙的建筑，让从未见过外国的小阿米莉亚大吃一惊，让她充满迷人的惊喜：所以现在和几周的时间里，她会在一个精致漂亮的空间里度过。住宿费用由乔斯和奥斯本承担，他们很有钱，对他的妻子充满善意的照顾——我说，在蜜月结束的大约两周时间里，阿米莉亚夫人像其他人一样高兴和幸福。来自英国的小新娘。

Every day during this happy time there was novelty and amusement for all parties. There was a church to see, or a picture-gallery—there was a ride, or an opera. The bands of the regiments were making music at all hours. The greatest folks of England walked in the Park—there was a perpetual military festival. George, taking out his wife to a new jaunt or junket every night, was quite pleased with himself as usual, and swore he was becoming quite a domestic character. And a jaunt or a junket with HIM! Was it not enough to set this little heart beating with joy? Her letters home to her mother were filled with delight and gratitude at this season. Her husband bade her buy laces, millinery, jewels, and gimcracks of all sorts. Oh, he was the kindest, best, and most generous of men!
在这欢乐的时光里，每一天各方都充满新奇和乐趣。有一座教堂可以看，或者有一个画廊——有一个游乐设施，或者一场歌剧。各团的乐队随时都在演奏音乐。英国最伟大的人们在公园里散步——那里有一个永久的军事节日。乔治每天晚上都带着妻子去一次新的短途旅行或中介，他像往常一样对自己感到非常满意，并发誓他已经成为一个非常顾家的人了。和他一起短途旅行或旅游！这还不足以让这颗小心脏欢快地跳动吗？这个季节，她写给母亲的家信充满了喜悦和感激之情。她的丈夫让她买花边、女帽、珠宝和各种小玩意儿。哦，他是最善良、最优秀、最慷慨的人！

The sight of the very great company of lords and ladies and fashionable persons who thronged the town, and appeared in every public place, filled George’s truly British soul with intense delight. They flung off that happy frigidity and insolence of demeanour which occasionally characterises the great at home, and appearing in numberless public places, condescended to mingle with the rest of the company whom they met there. One night at a party given by the general of the division to which George’s regiment belonged, he had the honour of dancing with Lady Blanche Thistlewood, Lord Bareacres’ daughter; he bustled for ices and refreshments for the two noble ladies; he pushed and squeezed for Lady Bareacres’ carriage; he bragged about the Countess when he got home, in a way which his own father could not have surpassed. He called upon the ladies the next day; he rode by their side in the Park; he asked their party to a great dinner at a restaurateur’s, and was quite wild with exultation when they agreed to come. Old Bareacres, who had not much pride and a large appetite, would go for a dinner anywhere.
看到一大群贵族、贵妇和时尚人士聚集在镇上，出现在每个公共场所，乔治真正的英国灵魂充满了强烈的喜悦。他们摆脱了家里伟人偶尔表现出的那种快乐的冷淡和傲慢的举止，出现在无数的公共场所，屈尊与他们在那里遇到的其他人打成一片。一天晚上，在乔治所在的师的将军举办的一场聚会上，他有幸与巴里亚克斯勋爵的女儿布兰奇·西斯尔伍德夫人跳舞。他忙着为两位贵妇准备冰块和茶点。他推挤着巴里亚克斯夫人的马车。当他回到家时，他向伯爵夫人吹嘘，其方式是他自己的父亲无法超越的。第二天他拜访了女士们。他在公园里与他们并肩骑行；他请他们一行人在一家餐馆吃一顿丰盛的晚餐，当他们同意来时，他欣喜若狂。老巴里亚克斯没有多少自尊心，胃口却很大，无论去哪儿吃饭都可以。

‘I hope there will be no women besides our own party,’ Lady Bareacres said, after reflecting upon the invitation which had been made, and accepted with too much precipitancy.
“我希望除了我们自己的队伍之外，不会有任何女性，”巴里亚克斯夫人在思考了已经发出的邀请并匆忙接受后说道。

‘Gracious Heaven, Mamma—you don’t suppose the man would bring his wife,’ shrieked Lady Blanche, who had been languishing in George’s arms in the newly imported waltz for hours the night before. ‘The men are bearable, but their women—‘
“天哪，妈妈——你以为这个男人不会带他的妻子来吧，”布兰奇夫人尖声叫道，前一天晚上，她在乔治的怀里跳着新引进的华尔兹舞，已经躺了好几个小时了。 “男人们还可以忍受，但他们的女人——”

‘Wife, just married, dev’lish pretty woman, I hear,’ the old Earl said.
“我听说，妻子，刚刚结婚，是个非常漂亮的女人。”老伯爵说道。

‘Well, my dear Blanche,’ said the mother, ‘I suppose, as Papa wants to go, we must go; but we needn’t know them in England, you know.’ And so, determined to cut their new acquaintance in Bond Street, these great folks went to eat his dinner at Brussels, and condescending to make him pay for their pleasure, showed their dignity by making his wife uncomfortable, and carefully excluding her from the conversation. This is a species of dignity in which the high-bred British female reigns supreme. To watch the behaviour of a fine lady to other and humbler women, is a very good sport for a philosophical frequenter of Vanity Fair.
“好吧，亲爱的布兰奇，”母亲说，“我想，既然爸爸想去，我们就必须去；但你知道，我们在英国不需要认识他们。”于是，这些伟大的人们决定在邦德街结识，去布鲁塞尔吃他的晚餐，并屈尊让他为他们的快乐付出代价，展示了他们的让他的妻子感到不舒服，并小心地将她排除在谈话之外，从而侵犯了他的尊严。这是一种尊严，受过良好教育的英国女性占据着至高无上的地位。对于经常光顾《名利场》的哲学常客来说，观察一位优雅女士对其他卑微女性的行为是一项非常好的运动。

This festival, on which honest George spent a great deal of money, was the very dismallest of all the entertainments which Amelia had in her honeymoon. She wrote the most piteous accounts of the feast home to her mamma: how the Countess of Bareacres would not answer when spoken to; how Lady Blanche stared at her with her eye-glass; and what a rage Captain Dobbin was in at their behaviour; and how my lord, as they came away from the feast, asked to see the bill, and pronounced it a d—bad dinner, and d—dear. But though Amelia told all these stories, and wrote home regarding her guests’ rudeness, and her own discomfiture, old Mrs. Sedley was mightily pleased nevertheless, and talked about Emmy’s friend, the Countess of Bareacres, with such assiduity that the news how his son was entertaining peers and peeresses actually came to Osborne’s ears in the City.
这个节日，诚实的乔治花了很多钱，是阿米莉亚蜜月期间所有娱乐活动中最微不足道的。她向妈妈写了关于这次回家宴会的最悲惨的经历：巴里亚克斯伯爵夫人在与她交谈时如何不回答；布兰奇夫人如何用眼镜盯着她；多宾船长对他们的行为感到多么愤怒啊！当他们结束宴会时，我的主人要求查看帐单，并宣布这是一顿糟糕的晚餐，而且亲爱的。但是，尽管阿米莉亚讲述了所有这些故事，并写信回家讲述了她的客人的粗鲁和她自己的不安，但老塞德利夫人仍然非常高兴，并以如此孜孜不倦的态度谈论艾美的朋友，巴里亚克斯伯爵夫人，以至于他的消息如何儿子正在招待同侪，贵族女性实际上来到了奥斯本的耳朵里。

Those who know the present Lieutenant-General Sir George Tufto, K.C.B., and have seen him, as they may on most days in the season, padded and in stays, strutting down Pall Mall with a rickety swagger on his high-heeled lacquered boots, leering under the bonnets of passers-by, or riding a showy chestnut, and ogling broughams in the Parks—those who know the present Sir George Tufto would hardly recognise the daring Peninsular and Waterloo officer. He has thick curling brown hair and black eyebrows now, and his whiskers are of the deepest purple. He was light-haired and bald in 1815, and stouter in the person and in the limbs, which especially have shrunk very much of late. When he was about seventy years of age (he is now nearly eighty), his hair, which was very scarce and quite white, suddenly grew thick, and brown, and curly, and his whiskers and eyebrows took their present colour. Ill-natured people say that his chest is all wool, and that his hair, because it never grows, is a wig. Tom Tufto, with whose father he quarrelled ever so many years ago, declares that Mademoiselle de Jaisey, of the French theatre, pulled his grandpapa’s hair off in the green-room; but Tom is notoriously spiteful and jealous; and the General’s wig has nothing to do with our story.
那些认识现任中将乔治·塔夫托爵士 (K.C.B.) 的人，并且见过他，就像他们在赛季中的大多数日子一样，穿着衬垫、穿着紧身衣、踩着高跟漆靴、摇摇晃晃地大摇大摆地走在 Pall Mall 上，在路人的帽子下斜视，或者骑着一匹艳丽的栗子，在公园里向四轮马车抛媚眼——那些认识现任乔治·塔夫托爵士的人很难认出这位勇敢的半岛和滑铁卢军官。他现在有一头浓密的棕色卷发和黑色的眉毛，胡须是最深的紫色。 1815年，他是浅色头发，秃顶，身材和四肢都更加粗壮，尤其是最近萎缩了很多。当他快七十岁的时候（现在已经快八十岁了），原本稀少的白发突然变得浓密、棕色、卷曲，胡须和眉毛也变成了现在的颜色。心怀恶意的人说他的胸膛全是羊毛，而他的头发因为永远不长，所以是假发。汤姆·塔夫托（Tom Tufto）多年前曾与他的父亲发生争吵，他声称法国剧院的德·杰西小姐（Mademoiselle de Jaisey）在演员休息室里扯掉了他祖父的头发；但汤姆是出了名的恶毒和嫉妒。将军的假发与我们的故事无关。

One day, as some of our friends of the —th were sauntering in the flower-market of Brussels, having been to see the Hotel de Ville, which Mrs. Major O’Dowd declared was not near so large or handsome as her fawther’s mansion of Glenmalony, an officer of rank, with an orderly behind him, rode up to the market, and descending from his horse, came amongst the flowers, and selected the very finest bouquet which money could buy. The beautiful bundle being tied up in a paper, the officer remounted, giving the nosegay into the charge of his military groom, who carried it with a grin, following his chief, who rode away in great state and self-satisfaction.
有一天，我们的一些朋友在布鲁塞尔的花卉市场闲逛，参观了巴黎市政厅，奥多德少校夫人宣称这座市政厅并不像她父亲的豪宅那么大或那么漂亮。格伦马洛尼的一位高级军官，身后跟着一名勤务兵，骑马来到市场，下了马，来到花丛中，挑选了金钱能买到的最好的花束。那个漂亮的包袱用纸捆好，军官重新上马，把花束交给他的军事马夫，马夫笑着拿着它，跟在他的长官后面，长官神采飞扬、得意洋洋地骑马离开了。

‘You should see the flowers at Glenmalony,’ Mrs. O’Dowd was remarking. ‘Me fawther has three Scotch garners with nine helpers. We have an acre of hot-houses, and pines as common as pays in the sayson. Our greeps weighs six pounds every bunch of ‘em, and upon me honour and conscience I think our magnolias is as big as taykettles.’
“你应该看看格伦马洛尼的花，”奥多德夫人说道。 “我的父亲有三个苏格兰威士忌储藏室和九个帮手。我们有一英亩的温室，还有像萨松一样常见的松树。我们的木兰每丛重六磅，以我的名誉和良心来说，我认为我们的木兰有泰壶那么大。

Dobbin, who never used to ‘draw out’ Mrs. O’Dowd as that wicked Osborne delighted in doing (much to Amelia’s terror, who implored him to spare her), fell back in the crowd, crowing and sputtering until he reached a safe distance, when he exploded amongst the astonished market-people with shrieks of yelling laughter.
多宾从来没有像那个邪恶的奥斯本喜欢做的那样“引诱”奥多德夫人（这让阿米莉亚很害怕，她恳求他放过她），他退到人群中，啼叫着，气急败坏，直到他到达一个安全的地方。距离，当他在惊讶的市场人们中爆发出尖叫声和大笑声时。

‘Hwhat’s that gawky guggling about?’ said Mrs. O’Dowd. ‘Is it his nose bleedn? He always used to say ‘twas his nose bleedn, till he must have pomped all the blood out of ‘um. An’t the magnolias at Glenmalony as big as taykettles, O’Dowd?’
“那傻傻的咯咯笑是怎么回事？”奥多德夫人问道。 “他的鼻子流血了吗？他总是说‘这是他的鼻子流血了’，直到他一定把‘嗯’里的血都吸出来了。奥多德，格伦马洛尼的木兰树不是像泰壶一样大吗？

‘‘Deed then they are, and bigger, Peggy,’ the Major said. When the conversation was interrupted in the manner stated by the arrival of the officer who purchased the bouquet.
“那么他们就真的这么做了，而且更大，佩吉，”少校说。当谈话被购买花束的官员的到来所打断时。

‘Devlish fine horse—who is it?’ George asked.
“魔鬼般的好马——这匹马是谁？”乔治问道。

‘You should see me brother Molloy Malony’s horse, Molasses, that won the cop at the Curragh,’ the Major’s wife was exclaiming, and was continuing the family history, when her husband interrupted her by saying—
“你应该看看我兄弟莫洛伊·马洛尼的马，糖蜜，它在克拉格赢得了警察的胜利，”少校的妻子大声说道，并正在继续讲述家族历史，这时她的丈夫打断了她，说道——

‘It’s General Tufto, who commands the —— cavalry division”; adding quietly, ‘he and I were both shot in the same leg at Talavera.’
“是塔夫托将军，指挥着——骑兵师”；轻声补充道，“他和我在塔拉维拉同一条腿中枪。”

‘Where you got your step,’ said George with a laugh. ‘General Tufto! Then, my dear, the Crawleys are come.’
“你从哪里迈出的一步，”乔治笑着说。 “塔夫托将军！然后，亲爱的，克劳利一家就来了。

Amelia’s heart fell—she knew not why. The sun did not seem to shine so bright. The tall old roofs and gables looked less picturesque all of a sudden, though it was a brilliant sunset, and one of the brightest and most beautiful days at the end of May.
阿米莉亚的心沉了下去——她不知道为什么。阳光似乎没有那么耀眼。高高的旧屋顶和山墙突然显得不那么美丽了，尽管那是灿烂的日落，也是五月底最明亮、最美丽的日子之一。

Chapter XXIX
第二十九章


Brussels
布鲁塞尔

Mr. Jos had hired a pair of horses for his open carriage, with which cattle, and the smart London vehicle, he made a very tolerable figure in the drives about Brussels. George purchased a horse for his private riding, and he and Captain Dobbin would often accompany the carriage in which Jos and his sister took daily excursions of pleasure. They went out that day in the park for their accustomed diversion, and there, sure enough, George’s remark with regard to the arrival of Rawdon Crawley and his wife proved to be correct. In the midst of a little troop of horsemen, consisting of some of the very greatest persons in Brussels, Rebecca was seen in the prettiest and tightest of riding-habits, mounted on a beautiful little Arab, which she rode to perfection (having acquired the art at Queen’s Crawley, where the Baronet, Mr. Pitt, and Rawdon himself had given her many lessons), and by the side of the gallant General Tufto.
乔斯先生为他的敞篷马车租了两匹马，带着这些牛，再加上那辆漂亮的伦敦车，他在布鲁塞尔周围的驾车中显得非常过得去。乔治买了一匹马供他私人骑马，他和多宾船长经常陪伴乔斯和他妹妹每天乘坐的马车进行快乐的旅行。那天他们去公园进行例行的消遣，果然，乔治关于罗登·克劳利和他妻子到来的评论被证明是正确的。在一小群由布鲁塞尔一些最伟大的人物组成的骑兵队伍中，丽贝卡穿着最漂亮、最严格的骑马习惯，骑在一辆漂亮的阿拉伯小马身上，她骑得完美无缺（已经获得了她在克劳利皇后学院学习艺术，从男爵、皮特先生和罗登本人曾在那里给她上过很多课），并在英勇的塔夫托将军身边。

‘Sure it’s the Juke himself,’ cried Mrs. Major O’Dowd to Jos, who began to blush violently; ‘and that’s Lord Uxbridge on the bay. How elegant he looks! Me brother, Molloy Malony, is as like him as two pays.’
“当然是尤克本人了，”奥多德少校夫人对乔斯喊道，乔斯开始脸红得厉害。 “那是海湾上的乌克斯布里奇勋爵。”他看起来多么优雅啊！我的兄弟莫洛伊·马洛尼和他就像两个人一样。

Rebecca did not make for the carriage; but as soon as she perceived her old acquaintance Amelia seated in it, acknowledged her presence by a gracious nod and smile, and by kissing and shaking her fingers playfully in the direction of the vehicle. Then she resumed her conversation with General Tufto, who asked ‘who the fat officer was in the gold-laced cap?’ on which Becky replied, ‘that he was an officer in the East Indian service.’ But Rawdon Crawley rode out of the ranks of his company, and came up and shook hands heartily with Amelia, and said to Jos, ‘Well, old boy, how are you?’ and stared in Mrs. O’Dowd’s face and at the black cock’s feathers until she began to think she had made a conquest of him.
丽贝卡没有走上马车。但当她发现老熟人阿米莉亚坐在车里时，她就亲切地点头、微笑，并亲吻并朝车辆方向顽皮地摇动手指，以承认她的存在。然后她继续与塔夫托将军交谈，塔夫托将军问“戴着金边帽子的胖军官是谁？”贝基回答说，“他是东印度部队的一名军官。”但罗登·克劳利骑马走出了军队。他走上前去，与阿米莉亚热情地握手，并对乔斯说：“好啦，老伙计，你好吗？”然后盯着奥多德夫人的脸和黑公鸡的羽毛，直到她开始认为她已经征服了他。

George, who had been delayed behind, rode up almost immediately with Dobbin, and they touched their caps to the august personages, among whom Osborne at once perceived Mrs. Crawley. He was delighted to see Rawdon leaning over his carriage familiarly and talking to Amelia, and met the aide-de-camp’s cordial greeting with more than corresponding warmth. The nods between Rawdon and Dobbin were of the very faintest specimens of politeness.
被耽搁在后面的乔治几乎立刻就和多宾一起骑马过来，他们向这些威风凛凛的人物碰了碰帽子，其中奥斯本立刻认出了克劳利夫人。他很高兴看到罗登亲切地靠在马车上与阿米莉亚交谈，并以相对应的热情迎接副官的亲切问候。罗登和多宾之间的点头是最微弱的礼貌。

Crawley told George where they were stopping with General Tufto at the Hotel du Parc, and George made his friend promise to come speedily to Osborne’s own residence. ‘Sorry I hadn’t seen you three days ago,’ George said. ‘Had a dinner at the Restaurateur’s—rather a nice thing. Lord Bareacres, and the Countess, and Lady Blanche, were good enough to dine with us—wish we’d had you.’ Having thus let his friend know his claims to be a man of fashion, Osborne parted from Rawdon, who followed the august squadron down an alley into which they cantered, while George and Dobbin resumed their places, one on each side of Amelia’s carriage.
克劳利告诉乔治他们和塔夫托将军在杜帕克酒店的住处，乔治让他的朋友答应迅速赶到奥斯本自己的住所。 “抱歉三天前我没有见到你，”乔治说。 “在餐厅吃了一顿晚餐——真是一件好事。巴里亚克斯勋爵、伯爵夫人和布兰奇夫人非常乐意和我们一起吃饭——真希望我们能邀请到你们。”在让他的朋友知道他自称是时尚人士后，奥斯本与罗登分手了，罗登追随了他们沿着一条小巷慢跑，乔治和多宾又回到原来的位置，阿米莉亚的马车两侧各一个。

‘How well the Juke looked,’ Mrs. O’Dowd remarked. ‘The Wellesleys and Malonys are related; but, of course, poor I would never dream of introjuicing myself unless his Grace thought proper to remember our family-tie.’
“这辆 Juke 看起来多么漂亮啊，”奥多德夫人说道。 “韦尔斯利一家和马洛尼一家有亲戚关系；但是，当然，可怜的我永远不会梦想自我插入，除非陛下认为有必要记住我们的家庭纽带。

‘He’s a great soldier,’ Jos said, much more at ease now the great man was gone. ‘Was there ever a battle won like Salamanca? Hey, Dobbin? But where was it he learnt his art? In India, my boy! The jungle’s the school for a general, mark me that. I knew him myself, too, Mrs. O’Dowd: we both of us danced the same evening with Miss Cutler, daughter of Cutler of the Artillery, and a devilish fine girl, at Dumdum.’
“他是一位伟大的士兵，”乔斯说道，现在这位伟人走了，他轻松多了。 “还有像萨拉曼卡这样赢得胜利的战斗吗？嘿，多宾？但他的艺术是在哪里学的呢？在印度，我的孩子！丛林是将军的学校，请记住这一点。我自己也认识他，奥多德夫人：同一天晚上，我们俩在达姆杜姆与炮兵卡特勒的女儿、一位邪恶的漂亮女孩卡特勒小姐一起跳舞。

The apparition of the great personages held them all in talk during the drive; and at dinner; and until the hour came when they were all to go to the Opera.
开车途中，大人物的出现让他们议论纷纷。和晚餐时；直到他们都去歌剧院的时间到来。

It was almost like Old England. The house was filled with familiar British faces, and those toilettes for which the British female has long been celebrated. Mrs. O’Dowd’s was not the least splendid amongst these, and she had a curl on her forehead, and a set of Irish diamonds and Cairngorms, which outshone all the decorations in the house, in her notion. Her presence used to excruciate Osborne; but go she would upon all parties of pleasure on which she heard her young friends were bent. It never entered into her thought but that they must be charmed with her company.
这几乎就像老英格兰一样。房子里充满了熟悉的英国面孔，以及英国女性长期以来为人称道的盥洗用品。奥多德夫人的房子在这之中并不是最不华丽的，她的额头上有一圈卷发，还有一套爱尔兰钻石和凯恩戈姆钻石，在她看来，这比房子里的所有装饰品都耀眼。她的出现曾经让奥斯本感到极度痛苦。但她会去参加她听说她的年轻朋友们热衷的所有欢乐聚会。她从来没想过，他们一定被她的陪伴所吸引。

‘She’s been useful to you, my dear,’ George said to his wife, whom he could leave alone with less scruple when she had this society. ‘But what a comfort it is that Rebecca’s come: you will have her for a friend, and we may get rid now of this damn’d Irishwoman.’ To this Amelia did not answer, yes or no: and how do we know what her thoughts were?
“她对你很有用，亲爱的，”乔治对他的妻子说，当她有这样的社交时，他可以毫无顾忌地离开她。 “但是丽贝卡的到来真是令人欣慰：你将有她作为朋友，我们现在可以摆脱这个该死的爱尔兰女人了。”对此，阿米莉亚没有回答，是或否：我们怎么知道什么她的想法是？

The coup d’oeil of the Brussels opera-house did not strike Mrs. O’Dowd as being so fine as the theatre in Fishamble Street, Dublin, nor was French music at all equal, in her opinion, to the melodies of her native country. She favoured her friends with these and other opinions in a very loud tone of voice, and tossed about a great clattering fan she sported, with the most splendid complacency.
奥多德夫人认为，布鲁塞尔歌剧院的精彩表演并不如都柏林菲沙姆布尔街的剧院那么精彩，在她看来，法国音乐也根本无法与她的祖国的旋律相提并论。国家。她用非常大声的语气向她的朋友们表达这些和其他观点，并以最辉煌的自满态度摇动着她所炫耀的一把巨大的扇子。

‘Who is that wonderful woman with Amelia, Rawdon, love?’ said a lady in an opposite box (who, almost always civil to her husband in private, was more fond than ever of him in company).
“亲爱的，罗登，那个和阿米莉亚在一起的好女人是谁？”对面包厢里的一位女士问道（她私下里几乎总是对她的丈夫很客气，但在陪伴下却比以往任何时候都更喜欢他）。

‘Don’t you see that creature with a yellow thing in her turban, and a red satin gown, and a great watch?’
“你没看到那个头巾上戴着黄色东西、穿着红色缎子长袍、戴着一块大手表的生物吗？”

‘Near the pretty little woman in white?’ asked a middle-aged gentleman seated by the querist’s side, with orders in his button, and several under-waistcoats, and a great, choky, white stock.
“在那个漂亮的白衣小女人旁边吗？”坐在询问者身边的一位中年绅士问道，他的纽扣里揣着订单，还有几件背心，还有一只巨大的、窒息的白色库存。

‘That pretty woman in white is Amelia, General: you are remarking all the pretty women, you naughty man.’
“那个漂亮的白衣女人是阿米莉亚，将军：你在评论所有漂亮的女人，你这个顽皮的男人。”

‘Only one, begad, in the world!’ said the General, delighted, and the lady gave him a tap with a large bouquet which she had.
“天哪，世界上只有一个！”将军高兴地说，那位女士用她手里的一大束花轻轻地拍了拍他。

‘Bedad it’s him,’ said Mrs. O’Dowd; ‘and that’s the very bokay he bought in the Marshy aux Flures!’ and when Rebecca, having caught her friend’s eye, performed the little hand-kissing operation once more, Mrs. Major O’D., taking the compliment to herself, returned the salute with a gracious smile, which sent that unfortunate Dobbin shrieking out of the box again.
“就是他了，”奥多德夫人说。 “这正是他在马西奥弗勒斯买的博卡伊！”当丽贝卡引起了她朋友的注意，再次进行了小小的亲吻动作时，奥德少校夫人把这对自己的恭维视为自己，返回了带着亲切的微笑行礼，这让不幸的多宾再次从包厢里尖叫起来。

At the end of the act, George was out of the box in a moment, and he was even going to pay his respects to Rebecca in her loge. He met Crawley in the lobby, however, where they exchanged a few sentences upon the occurrences of the last fortnight.
表演结束后，乔治一下子就脱离了包厢，他甚至要去丽贝卡的包厢里向她致敬。然而，他在大厅遇见了克劳利，他们就过去两周发生的事情交换了几句话。

‘You found my cheque all right at the agent’s? George said, with a knowing air.
“你在代理人那里找到了我的支票吗？”乔治带着一种会意的神情说道。

‘All right, my boy,’ Rawdon answered. ‘Happy to give you your revenge. Governor come round?’
“好吧，我的孩子，”罗登回答道。 ‘很高兴为你报仇。州长过来吗？

‘Not yet,’ said George, ‘but he will; and you know I’ve some private fortune through my mother. Has Aunty relented?’
“还没有，”乔治说，“但他会的；你知道我通过我母亲拥有一些私人财产。阿姨心软了吗？

‘Sent me twenty pound, damned old screw. When shall we have a meet? The General dines out on Tuesday. Can’t you come Tuesday? I say, make Sedley cut off his moustache. What the devil does a civilian mean with a moustache and those infernal frogs to his coat! By-bye. Try and come on Tuesday”; and Rawdon was going-off with two brilliant young gentlemen of fashion, who were, like himself, on the staff of a general officer.
“给我寄了二十英镑，该死的旧螺丝。我们什么时候见面？将军周二外出就餐。你星期二不能来吗？我说，让塞德利把他的胡子剪掉。一个留着小胡子、外套上有那些可恶的青蛙的平民到底是什么意思！再见。尝试周二来”；罗登正在和两位才华横溢的年轻时尚绅士约会，他们和他一样，都是一名将军的幕僚。

George was only half pleased to be asked to dinner on that particular day when the General was not to dine. ‘I will go in and pay my respects to your wife,’ said he; at which Rawdon said, ‘Hm, as you please,’ looking very glum, and at which the two young officers exchanged knowing glances. George parted from them and strutted down the lobby to the General’s box, the number of which he had carefully counted.
在将军不吃饭的那一天，乔治被邀请去吃晚饭，对此他感到很不高兴。 “我进去向你的妻子致敬，”他说。罗登说：“嗯，随你便吧。”他看上去很闷闷不乐，两个年轻军官心照不宣地交换了眼色。乔治与他们分开，大摇大摆地穿过大厅，来到将军的包厢前，他仔细地数过包厢的数量。

‘Entrez,’ said a clear little voice, and our friend found himself in Rebecca’s presence; who jumped up, clapped her hands together, and held out both of them to George, so charmed was she to see him. The General, with the orders in his button, stared at the newcomer with a sulky scowl, as much as to say, who the devil are you?
“安特雷兹，”一个清晰的小声音说道，我们的朋友发现自己就在丽贝卡面前。她跳起来，拍着手，把双手递给乔治，看到他真是太着迷了。将军纽扣上挂着命令，阴沉着脸盯着新来的人，仿佛在说，你到底是谁？

‘My dear Captain George!’ cried little Rebecca in an ecstasy. ‘How good of you to come. The General and I were moping together tete-atete. General, this is my Captain George of whom you heard me talk.’
“我亲爱的乔治船长！”小丽贝卡欣喜若狂地喊道。 ‘你能来真是太好了。将军和我坐在一起闷闷不乐。将军，这是我的乔治船长，你听到我谈到过他。

‘Indeed,’ said the General, with a very small bow; ‘of what regiment is Captain George?’
“确实如此，”将军微微鞠了一躬，说道。 “乔治上尉是哪个团的？”

George mentioned the —th: how he wished he could have said it was a crack cavalry corps.
乔治提到了这一点：他多么希望自己能说这是一支精锐的骑兵部队。

‘Come home lately from the West Indies, I believe. Not seen much service in the late war. Quartered here, Captain George?’—the General went on with killing haughtiness.
“我想，最近才从西印度群岛回来。”在战争后期没有看到太多的服务。乔治上尉，就在这里驻扎吗？”——将军继续傲慢得令人窒息。

‘Not Captain George, you stupid man; Captain Osborne,’ Rebecca said. The General all the while was looking savagely from one to the other.
“不是乔治船长，你这个愚蠢的人；奥斯本船长，”丽贝卡说。将军一直用凶狠的眼神看着一个又一个。

‘Captain Osborne, indeed! Any relation to the L——— Osbornes?’
“奥斯本船长，确实如此！和奥斯本家族有关系吗？

‘We bear the same arms,’ George said, as indeed was the fact; Mr. Osborne having consulted with a herald in Long Acre, and picked the L——— arms out of the peerage, when he set up his carriage fifteen years before. The General made no reply to this announcement; but took up his opera-glass—the double-barrelled lorgnon was not invented in those days—and pretended to examine the house; but Rebecca saw that his disengaged eye was working round in her direction, and shooting out bloodshot glances at her and George.
“我们拥有同样的武器，”乔治说，事实确实如此。十五年前，奥斯本先生在与长埃卡的一位传令官协商后，在他设置马车时，将 L—— 纹章从贵族头衔中剔除出来。将军没有对此公告做出任何回应；但他拿起了望远镜——当时还没有发明双筒望远镜——假装在检查房子。但丽贝卡看到他那只游离的眼睛正朝她的方向转动，并用布满血丝的目光扫视着她和乔治。

She redoubled in cordiality. ‘How is dearest Amelia? But I needn’t ask: how pretty she looks! And who is that nice good-natured looking creature with her—a flame of yours? O, you wicked men! And there is Mr. Sedley eating ice, I declare: how he seems to enjoy it! General, why have we not had any ices?’
她的热情加倍。 “最亲爱的阿米莉亚怎么样？但我不用问：她看起来有多漂亮！和她在一起的那个看起来和蔼可亲的生物是谁——你的火焰？噢，你们这些恶人！塞德利先生正在吃冰，我宣称：他看起来多么享受它！将军，为什么我们没有冰块？

‘Shall I go and fetch you some?’ said the General, bursting with wrath.
“要我去给你拿点吗？”将军勃然大怒地说。

‘Let ME go, I entreat you,’ George said.
“让我走，我求你，”乔治说。

‘No, I will go to Amelia’s box. Dear, sweet girl! Give me your arm, Captain George”; and so saying, and with a nod to the General, she tripped into the lobby. She gave George the queerest, knowingest look, when they were together, a look which might have been interpreted, ‘Don’t you see the state of affairs, and what a fool I’m making of him?’ But he did not perceive it. He was thinking of his own plans, and lost in pompous admiration of his own irresistible powers of pleasing.
“不，我要去阿米莉亚的包厢。”亲爱的、可爱的女孩！把你的手臂给我，乔治船长”；说着，她向将军点了点头，便跌跌撞撞地走进了大厅。当他们在一起时，她用一种最奇怪、最会心的眼神看着乔治，这种眼神可能会被解释为：“你难道没有看到事态的发展吗？我把他弄得多么愚蠢？”但他没有意识到它。他正在思考自己的计划，并沉浸在对自己不可抗拒的取悦能力的自负钦佩之中。

The curses to which the General gave a low utterance, as soon as Rebecca and her conqueror had quitted him, were so deep, that I am sure no compositor would venture to print them were they written down. They came from the General’s heart; and a wonderful thing it is to think that the human heart is capable of generating such produce, and can throw out, as occasion demands, such a supply of lust and fury, rage and hatred.
丽贝卡和她的征服者一离开将军，将军就低声咒骂，咒语是如此之深，我相信如果把它们写下来，没有一个排字工人会冒险把它们打印出来。它们出自将军的心；想到人类的内心能够产生这样的产物，并且能够在需要的时候抛出这样的欲望和愤怒、愤怒和仇恨，这是一件奇妙的事情。

Amelia’s gentle eyes, too, had been fixed anxiously on the pair, whose conduct had so chafed the jealous General; but when Rebecca entered her box, she flew to her friend with an affectionate rapture which showed itself, in spite of the publicity of the place; for she embraced her dearest friend in the presence of the whole house, at least in full view of the General’s glass, now brought to bear upon the Osborne party. Mrs. Rawdon saluted Jos, too, with the kindliest greeting: she admired Mrs. O’Dowd’s large Cairngorm brooch and superb Irish diamonds, and wouldn’t believe that they were not from Golconda direct. She bustled, she chattered, she turned and twisted, and smiled upon one, and smirked on another, all in full view of the jealous opera-glass opposite. And when the time for the ballet came (in which there was no dancer that went through her grimaces or performed her comedy of action better), she skipped back to her own box, leaning on Captain Dobbin’s arm this time. No, she would not have George’s: he must stay and talk to his dearest, best, little Amelia.
阿米莉亚温柔的眼睛也焦急地盯着这两个人，他们的行为让嫉妒的将军非常恼火。但当丽贝卡走进她的包厢时，她带着一种深情的狂喜飞奔到她的朋友身边，尽管这个地方很受人关注。因为她当着整个房子的面拥抱了她最亲爱的朋友，至少是在将军的玻璃面前，现在对奥斯本一行人产生了影响。罗登夫人也向乔斯致以最亲切的问候：她欣赏奥多德夫人的大凯恩戈姆胸针和精美的爱尔兰钻石，并且不相信它们不是直接来自戈尔康达。她忙忙碌碌，喋喋不休，转身扭动，对一个人微笑，对另一个人傻笑，所有这一切都在对面嫉妒的歌剧镜的眼前。当芭蕾舞表演的时间到来时（没有哪个舞者能比她的鬼脸更出色地表演她的动作喜剧），她跳回自己的包厢，这次靠在多宾船长的手臂上。不，她不会接受乔治的：他必须留下来和他最亲爱的、最好的小阿米莉亚说话。

‘What a humbug that woman is!’ honest old Dobbin mumbled to George, when he came back from Rebecca’s box, whither he had conducted her in perfect silence, and with a countenance as glum as an undertaker’s. ‘She writhes and twists about like a snake. All the time she was here, didn’t you see, George, how she was acting at the General over the way?’
“那个女人真是个骗子！”当乔治从丽贝卡的包厢里回来时，诚实的老多宾咕哝着，他把丽贝卡带到了那里，一言不发，脸上的表情像殡葬承办人一样闷闷不乐。 “她像一条蛇一样翻滚扭动。她一直在这里，乔治，你没看到她一路上在将军面前的表现吗？

‘Humbug—acting! Hang it, she’s the nicest little woman in England,’ George replied, showing his white teeth, and giving his ambrosial whiskers a twirl. ‘You ain’t a man of the world, Dobbin. Dammy, look at her now, she’s talked over Tufto in no time. Look how he’s laughing! Gad, what a shoulder she has! Emmy, why didn’t you have a bouquet? Everybody has a bouquet.’
‘骗人——演戏！算了，她是英国最好的小女人。”乔治回答道，露出洁白的牙齿，转动着他那迷人的胡须。 “你不是一个懂事的人，多宾。达米，看看她现在，她很快就谈到了塔夫托。看他笑得多开心！哎呀，她的肩膀多好啊！艾美，你怎么没有花束？每个人都有一束花。

‘Faith, then, why didn’t you BOY one?’ Mrs. O’Dowd said; and both Amelia and William Dobbin thanked her for this timely observation. But beyond this neither of the ladies rallied. Amelia was overpowered by the flash and the dazzle and the fashionable talk of her worldly rival. Even the O’Dowd was silent and subdued after Becky’s brilliant apparition, and scarcely said a word more about Glenmalony all the evening.
“说实话，那么你为什么不生一个呢？”奥多德夫人说道。阿米莉亚和威廉·多宾都感谢她及时的观察。但除此之外，两位女士都没有团结起来。阿米莉亚被她世俗对手的闪光、炫目和时尚言论所征服。就连奥多德在贝基的辉煌出现之后也变得沉默寡言，整个晚上几乎没有再多说什么关于格伦马洛尼的事。

‘When do you intend to give up play, George, as you have promised me, any time these hundred years?’ Dobbin said to his friend a few days after the night at the Opera. ‘When do you intend to give up sermonising?’ was the other’s reply. ‘What the deuce, man, are you alarmed about? We play low; I won last night. You don’t suppose Crawley cheats? With fair play it comes to pretty much the same thing at the year’s end.’
“乔治，你打算什么时候放弃玩耍，正如你向我承诺的，这百年的任何时候？”多宾在歌剧院之夜几天后对他的朋友说道。 “你打算什么时候放弃布道？”另一个人回答道。 ‘老兄，你到底在担心什么？我们玩得很低调；昨晚我赢了。你不认为克劳利作弊吗？如果公平竞争的话，年底的情况几乎是一样的。”

‘But I don’t think he could pay if he lost,’ Dobbin said; and his advice met with the success which advice usually commands. Osborne and Crawley were repeatedly together now. General Tufto dined abroad almost constantly. George was always welcome in the apartments (very close indeed to those of the General) which the aide-de-camp and his wife occupied in the hotel.
“但我认为如果他输了，他就付不起钱，”多宾说；他的建议获得了通常建议所带来的成功。奥斯本和克劳利现在经常在一起。塔夫托将军几乎经常在国外用餐。乔治在副官和他的妻子在酒店居住的公寓（实际上与将军的公寓非常接近）总是受到欢迎。

Amelia’s manners were such when she and George visited Crawley and his wife at these quarters, that they had very nearly come to their first quarrel; that is, George scolded his wife violently for her evident unwillingness to go, and the high and mighty manner in which she comported herself towards Mrs. Crawley, her old friend; and Amelia did not say one single word in reply; but with her husband’s eye upon her, and Rebecca scanning her as she felt, was, if possible, more bashful and awkward on the second visit which she paid to Mrs. Rawdon, than on her first call.
当阿米莉亚和乔治到这些住处拜访克劳利和他的妻子时，她的举止非常得体，以至于他们差点就发生了第一次争吵。也就是说，乔治猛烈地斥责了他的妻子，因为她明显不愿意去，而且她对她的老朋友克劳利夫人表现得高高在上。阿米莉亚没有回答一个字。但是，由于她丈夫的目光注视着她，丽贝卡也随着她的感觉打量着她，因此，她第二次拜访罗登夫人时，可能比第一次拜访时更加害羞和尴尬。

Rebecca was doubly affectionate, of course, and would not take notice, in the least, of her friend’s coolness. ‘I think Emmy has become prouder since her father’s name was in the—since Mr. Sedley’s MISFORTUNES,’ Rebecca said, softening the phrase charitably for George’s ear.
当然，丽贝卡是加倍深情的，根本不会注意到她朋友的冷静。 “我认为自从她父亲的名字出现在塞德利先生的不幸事件中以来，艾美变得更加自豪了，”丽贝卡说道，为了让乔治听得更仁慈地软化了这句话。

‘Upon my word, I thought when we were at Brighton she was doing me the honour to be jealous of me; and now I suppose she is scandalised because Rawdon, and I, and the General live together. Why, my dear creature, how could we, with our means, live at all, but for a friend to share expenses? And do you suppose that Rawdon is not big enough to take care of my honour? But I’m very much obliged to Emmy, very,’ Mrs. Rawdon said.
“据我所知，我认为当我们在布莱顿时，她嫉妒我是对我的荣幸；现在我想她感到震惊是因为罗登、我和将军住在一起。为什么，我亲爱的生物，如果没有朋友分担开支，我们怎么能以我们的手段生活呢？你认为罗登不够大，无法维护我的名誉吗？但我非常感谢艾美奖，非常感谢，”罗登夫人说。

‘Pooh, jealousy!’ answered George, ‘all women are jealous.’
“呸，嫉妒！”乔治回答道，“所有女人都会嫉妒。”

‘And all men too. Weren’t you jealous of General Tufto, and the General of you, on the night of the Opera? Why, he was ready to eat me for going with you to visit that foolish little wife of yours; as if I care a pin for either of you,’ Crawley’s wife said, with a pert toss of her head. ‘Will you dine here? The dragon dines with the Commander-in-Chief. Great news is stirring. They say the French have crossed the frontier. We shall have a quiet dinner.’
” “还有所有的男人。在歌剧院之夜，您不是嫉妒塔夫托将军和您的将军吗？哎呀，他准备吃了我，因为我和你一起去拜访你那个愚蠢的小妻子；就好像我关心你们中的任何一个人一样，”克劳利的妻子说道，她俏皮地摇了摇头。 ‘你要在这里吃饭吗？龙与总司令共进晚餐。好消息令人振奋。他们说法国人已经越过边境。我们将安静地享用一顿晚餐。

George accepted the invitation, although his wife was a little ailing. They were now not quite six weeks married. Another woman was laughing or sneering at her expense, and he not angry. He was not even angry with himself, this good-natured fellow. It is a shame, he owned to himself; but hang it, if a pretty woman WILL throw herself in your way, why, what can a fellow do, you know? I AM rather free about women, he had often said, smiling and nodding knowingly to Stubble and Spooney, and other comrades of the messtable; and they rather respected him than otherwise for this prowess. Next to conquering in war, conquering in love has been a source of pride, time out of mind, amongst men in Vanity Fair, or how should schoolboys brag of their amours, or Don Juan be popular?
乔治接受了邀请，尽管他的妻子有点病了。他们结婚还不到六个星期。另一个女人正在嘲笑或嘲笑她，但他并没有生气。他甚至没有生自己这个好脾气的家伙的气。这是他自己的耻辱；但不管怎样，如果一个漂亮女人愿意挡你的路，为什么，一个男人能做什么，你知道吗？我对女人相当自由，他经常这样说，微笑着，会心地向斯塔布尔和斯普尼以及其他混乱的同志点点头。他们之所以尊敬他，是因为他的这种能力。在《名利场》中，除了战争中的征服之外，爱情中的征服一直是男人们骄傲、心不​​在焉的源泉，或者说，小学生应该如何吹嘘他们的恋情，或者唐璜会受欢迎？

So Mr. Osborne, having a firm conviction in his own mind that he was a woman-killer and destined to conquer, did not run counter to his fate, but yielded himself up to it quite complacently. And as Emmy did not say much or plague him with her jealousy, but merely became unhappy and pined over it miserably in secret, he chose to fancy that she was not suspicious of what all his acquaintance were perfectly aware—namely, that he was carrying on a desperate flirtation with Mrs. Crawley. He rode with her whenever she was free. He pretended regimental business to Amelia (by which falsehood she was not in the least deceived), and consigning his wife to solitude or her brother’s society, passed his evenings in the Crawleys’ company; losing money to the husband and flattering himself that the wife was dying of love for him. It is very likely that this worthy couple never absolutely conspired and agreed together in so many words: the one to cajole the young gentleman, whilst the other won his money at cards: but they understood each other perfectly well, and Rawdon let Osborne come and go with entire good humour.
因此，奥斯本先生内心坚信自己是一个女性杀手，注定要征服别人，所以他并没有违背自己的命运，而是相当得意地屈服了。由于艾米没有说太多话，也没有用嫉妒来困扰他，只是变得不高兴，并在暗中痛苦地思念着这件事，他选择想象她并不怀疑他所有的熟人都清楚地知道的事情——也就是说，他带着与克劳利夫人绝望地调情。只要她有空，他就和她一起骑车。他向阿米莉亚假装是团里的事务（她丝毫没有被这种谎言欺骗），并让他的妻子独自一人或与她哥哥交往，在克劳利一家的陪伴下度过了夜晚。输给丈夫钱，还自以为妻子爱他爱得死去活来。很有可能，这对值得尊敬的夫妇从来没有完全共谋，并在很多话上达成一致：一个哄骗这位年轻的绅士，而另一个则通过打牌赢了他的钱：但他们彼此非常了解，罗登让奥斯本来了，带着十足的幽默感。

George was so occupied with his new acquaintances that he and William Dobbin were by no means so much together as formerly. George avoided him in public and in the regiment, and, as we see, did not like those sermons which his senior was disposed to inflict upon him. If some parts of his conduct made Captain Dobbin exceedingly grave and cool; of what use was it to tell George that, though his whiskers were large, and his own opinion of his knowingness great, he was as green as a schoolboy? that Rawdon was making a victim of him as he had done of many before, and as soon as he had used him would fling him off with scorn? He would not listen: and so, as Dobbin, upon those days when he visited the Osborne house, seldom had the advantage of meeting his old friend, much painful and unavailing talk between them was spared. Our friend George was in the full career of the pleasures of Vanity Fair.
乔治全神贯注于他的新相识，以至于他和威廉·多宾的关系再也不像以前那么亲密了。乔治在公共场合和团里回避他，而且正如我们所见，他不喜欢他的长官对他进行的那些布道。如果说多宾船长的某些行为让他变得极其严肃和冷静的话；告诉乔治，虽然他的胡须很大，而且他自己认为自己知识渊博，但他还像个小学生一样青涩，这有什么用呢？罗登正在成为他的受害者，就像他以前对许多人所做的那样，一旦他利用了他，就会轻蔑地把他甩掉？他不肯听：因此，作为多宾，在他参观奥斯本家的那些日子里，很少有机会见到他的老朋友，他们之间免去了许多痛苦而无用的谈话。我们的朋友乔治一生都在享受《名利场》的乐趣。

There never was, since the days of Darius, such a brilliant train of camp-followers as hung round the Duke of Wellington’s army in the Low Countries, in 1815; and led it dancing and feasting, as it were, up to the very brink of battle. A certain ball which a noble Duchess gave at Brussels on the 15th of June in the above-named year is historical. All Brussels had been in a state of excitement about it, and I have heard from ladies who were in that town at the period, that the talk and interest of persons of their own sex regarding the ball was much greater even than in respect of the enemy in their front. The struggles, intrigues, and prayers to get tickets were such as only English ladies will employ, in order to gain admission to the society of the great of their own nation.
自大流士时代以来，从未有过像 1815 年在低地国家的威灵顿公爵军队周围悬挂着如此出色的随从队伍。带领他们跳舞、享受盛宴，仿佛一直到了战斗的边缘。上述年份的 6 月 15 日，一位高贵的公爵夫人在布鲁塞尔举行的一次舞会具有历史意义。整个布鲁塞尔都对此感到兴奋，我从当时在该镇的女士们那里听说，同性的人对舞会的谈论和兴趣甚至比对舞会的尊重还要大得多。敌人在他们的面前。为了获得入场券而进行的斗争、阴谋和祈祷只有英国女士才会采用，以便进入自己国家的伟人的社会。

Jos and Mrs. O’Dowd, who were panting to be asked, strove in vain to procure tickets; but others of our friends were more lucky. For instance, through the interest of my Lord Bareacres, and as a setoff for the dinner at the restaurateur’s, George got a card for Captain and Mrs. Osborne; which circumstance greatly elated him. Dobbin, who was a friend of the General commanding the division in which their regiment was, came laughing one day to Mrs. Osborne, and displayed a similar invitation, which made Jos envious, and George wonder how the deuce he should be getting into society. Mr. and Mrs. Rawdon, finally, were of course invited; as became the friends of a General commanding a cavalry brigade.
乔斯和奥多德夫人气喘吁吁地等着被邀请，但没能买到票。但我们的其他朋友更幸运。例如，由于巴里亚克斯勋爵的兴趣，乔治得到了一张给奥斯本船长和夫人的名片，作为在餐馆吃饭的衬托。这种情况让他非常高兴。多宾是他们团所在师的将军的朋友，有一天，他笑着来到奥斯本夫人面前，并展示了一份类似的邀请函，这让乔斯羡慕不已，乔治想知道他应该如何融入社会。最后，罗登先生和夫人当然受到了邀请。他成为了一位指挥骑兵旅的将军的朋友。

On the appointed night, George, having commanded new dresses and ornaments of all sorts for Amelia, drove to the famous ball, where his wife did not know a single soul. After looking about for Lady Bareacres, who cut him, thinking the card was quite enough—and after placing Amelia on a bench, he left her to her own cogitations there, thinking, on his own part, that he had behaved very handsomely in getting her new clothes, and bringing her to the ball, where she was free to amuse herself as she liked. Her thoughts were not of the pleasantest, and nobody except honest Dobbin came to disturb them.
在约定的夜晚，乔治为阿米莉亚订购了各种新衣服和装饰品，开车前往著名的舞会，而他的妻子在那里一个人也不认识。在寻找了巴里亚克斯女士后，她砍了他，认为这张卡已经足够了——然后把阿米莉亚放在长凳上，他让她自己在那里沉思，认为他自己表现得非常英俊，让她得到了。她的新衣服，带她去舞会，在那里她可以随心所欲地自娱自乐。她的想法并不愉快，除了诚实的多宾之外，没有人来打扰她。

Whilst her appearance was an utter failure (as her husband felt with a sort of rage), Mrs. Rawdon Crawley’s debut was, on the contrary, very brilliant. She arrived very late. Her face was radiant; her dress perfection. In the midst of the great persons assembled, and the eye-glasses directed to her, Rebecca seemed to be as cool and collected as when she used to marshal Miss Pinkerton’s little girls to church. Numbers of the men she knew already, and the dandies thronged round her. As for the ladies, it was whispered among them that Rawdon had run away with her from out of a convent, and that she was a relation of the Montmorency family. She spoke French so perfectly that there might be some truth in this report, and it was agreed that her manners were fine, and her air distingue. Fifty would-be partners thronged round her at once, and pressed to have the honour to dance with her. But she said she was engaged, and only going to dance very little; and made her way at once to the place where Emmy sate quite unnoticed, and dismally unhappy. And so, to finish the poor child at once, Mrs. Rawdon ran and greeted affectionately her dearest Amelia, and began forthwith to patronise her. She found fault with her friend’s dress, and her hairdresser, and wondered how she could be so chaussee, and vowed that she must send her corsetiere the next morning. She vowed that it was a delightful ball; that there was everybody that every one knew, and only a VERY few nobodies in the whole room. It is a fact, that in a fortnight, and after three dinners in general society, this young woman had got up the genteel jargon so well, that a native could not speak it better; and it was only from her French being so good, that you could know she was not a born woman of fashion.
虽然罗登·克劳利夫人的亮相完全失败了（她的丈夫感到有些愤怒），但罗登·克劳利夫人的首次亮相却非常出色。她来得很晚。她的脸容光焕发；她的着装完美。在聚集在一起的大人物中间，在众人的注视下，丽贝卡显得冷静而镇定，就像她以前带领平克顿小姐的小女儿们去教堂时一样。许多她已经认识的男人和花花公子都聚集在她周围。至于女士们，她们之间私下议论说，罗登是带着她从修道院里逃出来的，而且她是蒙莫朗西家族的亲戚。她的法语说得非常流利，所以这份报告可能有一定的真实性，人们一致认为她的举止很好，而且气质出众。五十个想要成为舞伴的人一下子涌到了她的周围，争先恐后地想要有幸与她跳舞。但她说她已经订婚了，只会很少跳舞；她立即​​走到艾美坐的地方，没有引起任何人的注意，而且非常不高兴。于是，为了立即结束这个可怜的孩子，罗登夫人跑过去，亲切地向她最亲爱的阿米莉亚打招呼，并立即开始庇护她。她对朋友的着装和理发师提出了挑剔，并想知道自己怎么能如此时髦，并发誓第二天早上一定要送她的紧身胸衣。她发誓这是一个令人愉快的舞会；整个房间里都是大家都认识的人，只有极少数的人是无名之辈。事实是，在两周内，在社会上吃过三顿晚餐后，这位年轻女子已经把上流社会的行话说得如此流利，以至于当地人都说不出更好的语言了。仅从她的法语流利程度就可以看出她并非天生的时尚女性。

George, who had left Emmy on her bench on entering the ball-room, very soon found his way back when Rebecca was by her dear friend’s side. Becky was just lecturing Mrs. Osborne upon the follies which her husband was committing. ‘For God’s sake, stop him from gambling, my dear,’ she said, ‘or he will ruin himself. He and Rawdon are playing at cards every night, and you know he is very poor, and Rawdon will win every shilling from him if he does not take care. Why don’t you prevent him, you little careless creature? Why don’t you come to us of an evening, instead of moping at home with that Captain Dobbin? I dare say he is tres aimable; but how could one love a man with feet of such size? Your husband’s feet are darlings—Here he comes. Where have you been, wretch? Here is Emmy crying her eyes out for you. Are you coming to fetch me for the quadrille?’ And she left her bouquet and shawl by Amelia’s side, and tripped off with George to dance. Women only know how to wound so. There is a poison on the tips of their little shafts, which stings a thousand times more than a man’s blunter weapon. Our poor Emmy, who had never hated, never sneered all her life, was powerless in the hands of her remorseless little enemy.
乔治在进入舞厅时把艾美留在了她的长凳上，很快就回来了，而丽贝卡就在她亲爱的朋友身边。贝基只是在教训奥斯本夫人她丈夫所犯下的愚蠢行为。 “看在上帝的份上，阻止他赌博，亲爱的，”她说，“否则他会毁了自己。”他和罗登每天晚上都打牌，你知道他很穷，如果他不小心，罗登就会从他那里赢走每一先令。你这个粗心的小家伙，为什么不阻止他呢？你为什么不在晚上来找我们，而不是和多宾船长一起在家里闷闷不乐呢？我敢说他是很有目标的；但一个人的脚这么大，怎么可能会被人喜欢呢？你丈夫的脚是宝贝——他来了。你去哪儿了，可怜虫？艾美为你哭泣。你来接我跳四方舞吗？”她把花束和披肩放在阿米莉亚身边，然后就和乔治一起跳舞了。女人只知道如何伤人。它们的小柄顶端有毒，比人的钝器的刺痛力强一千倍。我们可怜的艾美，一生从未仇恨过，从未嘲笑过，在她无情的小敌人手中却是无能为力。

George danced with Rebecca twice or thrice—how many times Amelia scarcely knew. She sat quite unnoticed in her corner, except when Rawdon came up with some words of clumsy conversation: and later in the evening, when Captain Dobbin made so bold as to bring her refreshments and sit beside her. He did not like to ask her why she was so sad; but as a pretext for the tears which were filling in her eyes, she told him that Mrs. Crawley had alarmed her by telling her that George would go on playing.
乔治和丽贝卡跳了两三次舞——阿米莉亚几乎不知道有多少次。她坐在自己的角落里，没人注意到她，除非罗登说了一些笨拙的话：晚上晚些时候，多宾船长大胆地给她端来点心，坐在她旁边。他不想问她为什么如此悲伤；他不想问她为什么如此悲伤。但为了掩饰眼中的泪水，她告诉他，克劳利夫人告诉她乔治会继续玩，这让她惊慌了。

‘It is curious, when a man is bent upon play, by what clumsy rogues he will allow himself to be cheated,’ Dobbin said; and Emmy said, ‘Indeed.’ She was thinking of something else. It was not the loss of the money that grieved her.
多宾说：“奇怪的是，当一个人一心想着玩耍时，他会被那些笨手笨脚的流氓欺骗。”艾美说：“确实。”她在想别的事情。让她悲伤的并不是钱的损失。

At last George came back for Rebecca’s shawl and flowers. She was going away. She did not even condescend to come back and say goodbye to Amelia. The poor girl let her husband come and go without saying a word, and her head fell on her breast. Dobbin had been called away, and was whispering deep in conversation with the General of the division, his friend, and had not seen this last parting. George went away then with the bouquet; but when he gave it to the owner, there lay a note, coiled like a snake among the flowers. Rebecca’s eye caught it at once. She had been used to deal with notes in early life. She put out her hand and took the nosegay. He saw by her eyes as they met, that she was aware what she should find there. Her husband hurried her away, still too intent upon his own thoughts, seemingly, to take note of any marks of recognition which might pass between his friend and his wife. These were, however, but trifling. Rebecca gave George her hand with one of her usual quick knowing glances, and made a curtsey and walked away. George bowed over the hand, said nothing in reply to a remark of Crawley’s, did not hear it even, his brain was so throbbing with triumph and excitement, and allowed them to go away without a word.
最后乔治回来取丽贝卡的披肩和鲜花。她要走了。她甚至没有屈尊回来与阿米莉亚告别。可怜的姑娘一声不吭地任由丈夫来去，把头埋在胸前。多宾被叫走了，正在与师长、他的朋友低声交谈，没有看到这最后的离别。乔治带着花束走了。但当他把它交给主人时，却发现一张纸条像蛇一样盘绕在花丛中。丽贝卡立刻就注意到了它。她早年就习惯了处理笔记。她伸出手，接过花束。当他们相遇时，他从她的眼睛里看出，她知道她应该在那里找到什么。她的丈夫催促她离开，似乎仍然太专注于自己的想法，没有注意到他的朋友和他的妻子之间可能传递出的任何认可的迹象。然而，这些都是微不足道的。丽贝卡向乔治伸出了手，像往常一样迅速地看了一眼，然后行了个屈膝礼就走开了。乔治向那只手鞠了一躬，没有回答克劳利的话，甚至没有听到，他的大脑因胜利和兴奋而跳动，一言不发地让他们离开了。

His wife saw the one part at least of the bouquet-scene. It was quite natural that George should come at Rebecca’s request to get her her scarf and flowers: it was no more than he had done twenty times before in the course of the last few days; but now it was too much for her. ‘William,’ she said, suddenly clinging to Dobbin, who was near her, ‘you’ve always been very kind to me—I’m—I’m not well. Take me home.’ She did not know she called him by his Christian name, as George was accustomed to do. He went away with her quickly. Her lodgings were hard by; and they threaded through the crowd without, where everything seemed to be more astir than even in the ball-room within.
他的妻子至少看到了花束场景的一部分。乔治应丽贝卡的要求来给她拿围巾和鲜花，这是很自然的事：在过去的几天里，他只做过二十次；这只是他的行为而已。但现在这对她来说太过分了。 “威廉，”她说，突然抱紧了靠近她的多宾，“你一直对我很好——我——我不太舒服。带我回家。”她不知道她用他的教名称呼他，就像乔治习惯的那样。他很快就带着她离开了。她的住所很近。他们穿过外面的人群，那里的一切似乎比里面的舞厅还要热闹。

George had been angry twice or thrice at finding his wife up on his return from the parties which he frequented: so she went straight to bed now; but although she did not sleep, and although the din and clatter, and the galloping of horsemen were incessant, she never heard any of these noises, having quite other disturbances to keep her awake.
乔治从他经常参加的聚会回来后发现他的妻子已经回来了，他已经生气了两三次了：所以她现在直接上床睡觉了。尽管她没有睡觉，虽然喧闹声、马蹄声和骑兵的奔腾声不断，但她从未听到过任何这些噪音，因为还有其他的干扰让她无法入睡。

Osborne meanwhile, wild with elation, went off to a play-table, and began to bet frantically. He won repeatedly. ‘Everything succeeds with me to-night,’ he said. But his luck at play even did not cure him of his restlessness, and he started up after awhile, pocketing his winnings, and went to a buffet, where he drank off many bumpers of wine.
与此同时，奥斯本兴高采烈地走向赌桌，开始疯狂下注。他屡屡获胜。 “今晚我一切都很成功，”他说。但他的运气并没有治愈他的焦躁不安，过了一会儿他就开始了，把赢的钱装进口袋，然后去吃自助餐，在那里喝了很多酒。

Here, as he was rattling away to the people around, laughing loudly and wild with spirits, Dobbin found him. He had been to the cardtables to look there for his friend. Dobbin looked as pale and grave as his comrade was flushed and jovial.
在这里，当他对周围的人喋喋不休、大声大笑、兴高采烈时，多宾找到了他。他去牌桌前是为了寻找他的朋友。多宾的脸色苍白而严肃，而他的战友则是面色通红，心情愉快。

‘Hullo, Dob! Come and drink, old Dob! The Duke’s wine is famous. Give me some more, you sir”; and he held out a trembling glass for the liquor.
‘你好，多布！来喝一杯吧，老多布！公爵的酒很有名。再给我一些，先生”；他递出一个颤抖的杯子来盛酒。

‘Come out, George,’ said Dobbin, still gravely; ‘don’t drink.’
“出来吧，乔治。”多宾仍然严肃地说。 “别喝酒。”

‘Drink! there’s nothing like it. Drink yourself, and light up your lantern jaws, old boy. Here’s to you.’
'喝！没有什么比这更好的了。喝了你自己，点亮你的灯笼嘴，老男孩。这是给你的。

Dobbin went up and whispered something to him, at which George, giving a start and a wild hurray, tossed off his glass, clapped it on the table, and walked away speedily on his friend’s arm. ‘The enemy has passed the Sambre,’ William said, ‘and our left is already engaged. Come away. We are to march in three hours.’
多宾走上前，低声对他说了些什么，乔治吓了一跳，疯狂欢呼，扔掉杯子，拍在桌子上，然后挽着朋友的胳膊快步走开。 “敌人已经越过了桑布尔河，”威廉说道，“我们的左翼已经投入战斗。走开。我们将在三个小时内出发。

Away went George, his nerves quivering with excitement at the news so long looked for, so sudden when it came. What were love and intrigue now? He thought about a thousand things but these in his rapid walk to his quarters—his past life and future chances—the fate which might be before him—the wife, the child perhaps, from whom unseen he might be about to part. Oh, how he wished that night’s work undone! and that with a clear conscience at least he might say farewell to the tender and guileless being by whose love he had set such little store!
乔治离开了，他期待已久的消息来得如此突然，他的神经因兴奋而颤抖。现在爱情和阴谋算什么？他想到了一千件事，但在快速走向住所的路上，他想到了这些——他过去的生活和未来的机会——他可能面临的命运——妻子，也许是孩子，他可能即将在看不见的情况下与他们分离。哦，他多么希望那天晚上的工作能够结束！至少他可以问心无愧地告别这个温柔而朴实的人，他对他的爱如此不重视！

He thought over his brief married life. In those few weeks he had frightfully dissipated his little capital. How wild and reckless he had been! Should any mischance befall him: what was then left for her? How unworthy he was of her. Why had he married her? He was not fit for marriage. Why had he disobeyed his father, who had been always so generous to him? Hope, remorse, ambition, tenderness, and selfish regret filled his heart. He sate down and wrote to his father, remembering what he had said once before, when he was engaged to fight a duel. Dawn faintly streaked the sky as he closed this farewell letter. He sealed it, and kissed the superscription. He thought how he had deserted that generous father, and of the thousand kindnesses which the stern old man had done him.
他思考着自己短暂的婚姻生活。在那几个星期里，他可怕地耗尽了自己的一点资本。他是多么狂野和鲁莽啊！万一他出了什么意外，她还剩下什么？他是多么配不上她。他为什么要娶她？他不适合结婚。他为什么要违背对他一向慷慨的父亲呢？希望、悔恨、野心、温柔、自私的悔恨充斥着他的心。他坐下来给父亲写信，想起他以前在决斗时说过的话。当他写完这封告别信时，黎明的曙光在天空中划过。他将其密封，并亲吻了上面的铭文。他想起自己是如何抛弃了那位慷慨的父亲，以及这位严厉的老人对他的无数善意。

He had looked into Amelia’s bedroom when he entered; she lay quiet, and her eyes seemed closed, and he was glad that she was asleep. On arriving at his quarters from the ball, he had found his regimental servant already making preparations for his departure: the man had understood his signal to be still, and these arrangements were very quickly and silently made. Should he go in and wake Amelia, he thought, or leave a note for her brother to break the news of departure to her? He went in to look at her once again.
当他走进阿米莉亚的卧室时，他已经看过了。她安静地躺着，眼睛似乎闭着，他很高兴她睡着了。当他从舞会回到自己的住处时，他发现团里的仆人已经在为他的离开做准备：那人明白他的信号是静止的，所以这些安排很快就悄无声息地做好了。他想，他应该进去叫醒阿米莉亚，还是留一张纸条让她哥哥向她通报离开的消息？他又进去看了她一眼。

She had been awake when he first entered her room, but had kept her eyes closed, so that even her wakefulness should not seem to reproach him. But when he had returned, so soon after herself, too, this timid little heart had felt more at ease, and turning towards him as he stept softly out of the room, she had fallen into a light sleep. George came in and looked at her again, entering still more softly. By the pale night-lamp he could see her sweet, pale face— the purple eyelids were fringed and closed, and one round arm, smooth and white, lay outside of the coverlet. Good God! how pure she was; how gentle, how tender, and how friendless! and he, how selfish, brutal, and black with crime! Heart-stained, and shamestricken, he stood at the bed’s foot, and looked at the sleeping girl. How dared he—who was he, to pray for one so spotless! God bless her! God bless her! He came to the bedside, and looked at the hand, the little soft hand, lying asleep; and he bent over the pillow noiselessly towards the gentle pale face.
当他第一次进入她的房间时，她已经醒着，但她一直闭着眼睛，这样即使她的清醒也不会显得在责备他。但当他回来时，她也很快回来了，这颗胆怯的小心感到更加安心，当他轻轻地走出房间时，她转向他，陷入了浅睡。乔治进来了，又看了她一眼，语气更加轻柔了。借着苍白的夜灯，他可以看到她甜美而苍白的脸——紫色的眼睑有流苏，闭合着，一只圆圆的手臂，光滑而洁白，躺在被子外面。天哪！她是多么纯洁啊！多么温柔，多么温柔，多么无友啊！而他，是多么自私、残忍、罪恶滔天！他心灰意冷，羞愧地站在床脚边，看着熟睡的女孩。他——他是谁，竟敢为如此一尘不染的人祈祷！上帝保佑她！上帝保佑她！他来到床边，看着那只手，那只柔软的小手，躺在床上睡着了；他趴在枕头上，无声无息地朝那张温柔苍白的脸看去。

Two fair arms closed tenderly round his neck as he stooped down. ‘I am awake, George,’ the poor child said, with a sob fit to break the little heart that nestled so closely by his own. She was awake, poor soul, and to what? At that moment a bugle from the Place of Arms began sounding clearly, and was taken up through the town; and amidst the drums of the infantry, and the shrill pipes of the Scotch, the whole city awoke.
当他弯下腰时，两只白皙的手臂温柔地搂住了他的脖子。 “我醒了，乔治。”可怜的孩子抽泣着说道，他那颗紧紧依偎在自己身边的小心都碎了。她醒了，可怜的灵魂，但她又醒了什么呢？就在那时，军号开始清晰地响起，并传遍了整个城镇。在步兵的鼓声和苏格兰威士忌刺耳的笛声中，整个城市都苏醒了。

Chapter XXX
第三十章


‘The Girl I Left Behind Me”
《我留下的女孩》

We do not claim to rank among the military novelists. Our place is with the non-combatants. When the decks are cleared for action we go below and wait meekly. We should only be in the way of the manoeuvres that the gallant fellows are performing overhead. We shall go no farther with the —th than to the city gate: and leaving Major O’Dowd to his duty, come back to the Major’s wife, and the ladies and the baggage.
我们并不声称自己属于军事小说家。我们的立场与非战斗人员同在。当甲板准备好进行行动时，我们就到下面温顺地等待。我们只应该妨碍勇敢的家伙们在头顶上进行的演习。我们不会再和——th比去城门更远了：让奥多德少校继续他的职责，回到少校的妻子、女士们和行李那里。

Now the Major and his lady, who had not been invited to the ball at which in our last chapter other of our friends figured, had much more time to take their wholesome natural rest in bed, than was accorded to people who wished to enjoy pleasure as well as to do duty. ‘It’s my belief, Peggy, my dear,’ said he, as he placidly pulled his nightcap over his ears, ‘that there will be such a ball danced in a day or two as some of ‘em has never heard the chune of”; and he was much more happy to retire to rest after partaking of a quiet tumbler, than to figure at any other sort of amusement. Peggy, for her part, would have liked to have shown her turban and bird of paradise at the ball, but for the information which her husband had given her, and which made her very grave.
现在，少校和他的夫人没有被邀请参加我们上一章其他朋友认为的舞会，他们有更多的时间在床上进行健康的自然休息，比那些希望享受快乐的人有更多的时间以及履行职责。 “我相信，佩吉，亲爱的，”他一边平静地把睡帽拉到耳朵上，一边说道，“一两天内将会举行一场舞会，他们中的一些人从未听过这样的舞会。” ;他更乐意安静地喝完酒后休息一下，而不是考虑任何其他娱乐活动。就佩吉而言，她本来想在舞会上展示她的头巾和天堂鸟，但她丈夫给了她这个信息，这让她变得非常严肃。

‘I’d like ye wake me about half an hour before the assembly beats,’ the Major said to his lady. ‘Call me at half-past one, Peggy dear, and see me things is ready. May be I’ll not come back to breakfast, Mrs. O’D.’ With which words, which signified his opinion that the regiment would march the next morning, the Major ceased talking, and fell asleep.
“我希望你们在集会开始前半小时叫醒我，”少校对他的女士说。 “一点半给我打电话，亲爱的佩吉，看看我一切都准备好了。也许我不会回来吃早餐了，奥德夫人。”少校说完这句话，表明他认为该团将在第二天早上行军，他不再说话，睡着了。

Mrs. O’Dowd, the good housewife, arrayed in curl papers and a camisole, felt that her duty was to act, and not to sleep, at this juncture. ‘Time enough for that,’ she said, ‘when Mick’s gone”; and so she packed his travelling valise ready for the march, brushed his cloak, his cap, and other warlike habiliments, set them out in order for him; and stowed away in the cloak pockets a light package of portable refreshments, and a wicker-covered flask or pocket-pistol, containing near a pint of a remarkably sound Cognac brandy, of which she and the Major approved very much; and as soon as the hands of the ‘repayther’ pointed to half-past one, and its interior arrangements (it had a tone quite equal to a cathaydral, its fair owner considered) knelled forth that fatal hour, Mrs. O’Dowd woke up her Major, and had as comfortable a cup of coffee prepared for him as any made that morning in Brussels. And who is there will deny that this worthy lady’s preparations betokened affection as much as the fits of tears and hysterics by which more sensitive females exhibited their love, and that their partaking of this coffee, which they drank together while the bugles were sounding the turn-out and the drums beating in the various quarters of the town, was not more useful and to the purpose than the outpouring of any mere sentiment could be? The consequence was, that the Major appeared on parade quite trim, fresh, and alert, his well-shaved rosy countenance, as he sate on horseback, giving cheerfulness and confidence to the whole corps. All the officers saluted her when the regiment marched by the balcony on which this brave woman stood, and waved them a cheer as they passed; and I daresay it was not from want of courage, but from a sense of female delicacy and propriety, that she refrained from leading the gallant—th personally into action.
奥多德夫人，这位善良的家庭主妇，穿着卷发纸和吊带背心，觉得在这个时刻她的责任是行动，而不是睡觉。 “时间够了，”她说，“等米克走了之后”；于是她收拾好他的旅行箱，准备行军，擦洗他的斗篷、帽子和其他军装，为他整理好。在斗篷口袋里藏了一包轻便的便携式茶点，还有一个柳条覆盖的烧瓶或袖珍手枪，里面装有近一品脱的优质干邑白兰地，她和少校都非常喜欢。当“偿还者”的手指向一点半时，它的内部布置（它的音调与大教堂的音调相当，它的主人认为）敲响了那个致命的时刻，奥多德夫人醒了升上她的专业，并为他准备了一杯舒适的咖啡，就像那天早上在布鲁塞尔煮的咖啡一样。在场的人谁会否认，这位可敬的女士的准备工作与更敏感的女性表达爱意的泪水和歇斯底里一样，也象征着爱意，以及她们在军号吹响时一起喝的这杯咖啡。 ——在镇上的各个角落敲响鼓声，难道不比任何单纯的情感倾诉更有用、更有目的吗？结果是，少校在阅兵式上显得非常整洁、精神焕发、警觉，当他坐在马背上时，他刮得干干净净的脸色红润，给整个军团带来了欢乐和信心。 当军团行进到这位勇敢的女士所站的阳台时，所有军官都向她敬礼，并在经过时向他们挥手欢呼。我敢说，她没有亲自带领英勇的人采取行动，并不是因为缺乏勇气，而是出于女性的温柔和礼节感。

On Sundays, and at periods of a solemn nature, Mrs. O’Dowd used to read with great gravity out of a large volume of her uncle the Dean’s sermons. It had been of great comfort to her on board the transport as they were coming home, and were very nearly wrecked, on their return from the West Indies. After the regiment’s departure she betook herself to this volume for meditation; perhaps she did not understand much of what she was reading, and her thoughts were elsewhere: but the sleep project, with poor Mick’s nightcap there on the pillow, was quite a vain one. So it is in the world. Jack or Donald marches away to glory with his knapsack on his shoulder, stepping out briskly to the tune of ‘The Girl I Left Behind Me.’ It is she who remains and suffers—and has the leisure to think, and brood, and remember.
每逢周日和庄严的时刻，奥多德夫人常常会认真地朗读她叔叔院长的大量讲道。当他们从西印度群岛回来时，在运输船上几乎失事，这对她来说是极大的安慰。部队出发后，她开始阅读这本书进行冥想。也许她不太明白她正在读的内容，她的思绪在别处：但是睡眠计划，可怜的米克的睡帽放在枕头上，是一个相当徒劳的计划。世界上也是如此。杰克或唐纳德肩上背着背包，迈向荣耀，迈着轻快的步调，踏着“我留下的女孩”的曲调。留下来的，是她，受苦的是她，她有闲暇去思考、沉思和回忆。 。

Knowing how useless regrets are, and how the indulgence of sentiment only serves to make people more miserable, Mrs. Rebecca wisely determined to give way to no vain feelings of sorrow, and bore the parting from her husband with quite a Spartan equanimity. Indeed Captain Rawdon himself was much more affected at the leave-taking than the resolute little woman to whom he bade farewell. She had mastered this rude coarse nature; and he loved and worshipped her with all his faculties of regard and admiration. In all his life he had never been so happy, as, during the past few months, his wife had made him. All former delights of turf, mess, hunting-field, and gambling-table; all previous loves and courtships of milliners, opera-dancers, and the like easy triumphs of the clumsy military Adonis, were quite insipid when compared to the lawful matrimonial pleasures which of late he had enjoyed. She had known perpetually how to divert him; and he had found his house and her society a thousand times more pleasant than any place or company which he had ever frequented from his childhood until now. And he cursed his past follies and extravagances, and bemoaned his vast outlying debts above all, which must remain for ever as obstacles to prevent his wife’s advancement in the world. He had often groaned over these in midnight conversations with Rebecca, although as a bachelor they had never given him any disquiet. He himself was struck with this phenomenon. ‘Hang it,’ he would say (or perhaps use a still stronger expression out of his simple vocabulary), ‘before I was married I didn’t care what bills I put my name to, and so long as Moses would wait or Levy would renew for three months, I kept on never minding. But since I’m married, except renewing, of course, I give you my honour I’ve not touched a bit of stamped paper.’
丽贝卡夫人知道后悔是没有用的，也知道放纵感情只会让人更加痛苦，她明智地决定不去承受徒劳的悲伤，以一种斯巴达式的平静承受着与丈夫的离别。事实上，罗登船长本人在告别时比他告别时那个坚定的小女人更受影响。她已经掌握了这种粗鲁粗俗的本性。他用全部的尊重和钦佩来爱她、崇拜她。在他的一生中，他从来没有像过去几个月里他的妻子让他如此幸福过。所有以前的乐趣包括草皮、杂乱、狩猎场和赌桌；与他最近享受的合法婚姻的快乐相比，以前所有女帽商、歌剧舞者的爱情和求爱，以及笨拙的军事阿多尼斯的类似轻松胜利，都是相当平淡的。她一直知道如何转移他的注意力。他发现他的房子和她的交往比他从童年到现在经常光顾的任何地方或陪伴都要愉快一千倍。他咒骂自己过去的愚蠢和奢侈，最重要的是哀叹自己巨额的外债，这些债务必须永远成为阻止他妻子在世界上进步的障碍。他经常在午夜与丽贝卡谈话时抱怨这些，尽管作为一个单身汉，这些从来没有给他带来任何不安。他本人也对这种现象感到震惊。 “算了吧，”他会说（或者可能用他简单的词汇中更强烈的表达方式），“在我结婚之前，我不在乎我把自己的名字写在什么账单上，只要摩西或利维愿意等待会续签三个月，我一直不介意。 但自从我结婚以来，除了续约，当然，我很荣幸地告诉你，我没有碰过一丁点盖章的纸。’

Rebecca always knew how to conjure away these moods of melancholy. ‘Why, my stupid love,’ she would say, ‘we have not done with your aunt yet. If she fails us, isn’t there what you call the Gazette? or, stop, when your uncle Bute’s life drops, I have another scheme. The living has always belonged to the younger brother, and why shouldn’t you sell out and go into the Church?’ The idea of this conversion set Rawdon into roars of laughter: you might have heard the explosion through the hotel at midnight, and the haw-haws of the great dragoon’s voice. General Tufto heard him from his quarters on the first floor above them; and Rebecca acted the scene with great spirit, and preached Rawdon’s first sermon, to the immense delight of the General at breakfast.
丽贝卡总是知道如何驱散这些忧郁的情绪。 “哎呀，我愚蠢的爱人，”她会说，“我们还没有和你姑妈说完呢。”如果她让我们失望了，那不是还有你们所谓的公报吗？或者，停下来，当你叔叔布特的生命垂危时，我有另一个计划。生活一直是属于弟弟的，你为什么不应该出卖自己的钱，去教堂呢？”这种转变的想法让罗登大笑起来：你可能在半夜听到了酒店里的爆炸声，伟大的龙骑兵发出的沙哑声音。塔夫托将军在他们楼上一楼的住所里听到了他的讲话。丽贝卡以极大的精神表演了这一场景，并宣讲了罗登的第一次布道，这让早餐时的将军非常高兴。

But these were mere by-gone days and talk. When the final news arrived that the campaign was opened, and the troops were to march, Rawdon’s gravity became such that Becky rallied him about it in a manner which rather hurt the feelings of the Guardsman. ‘You don’t suppose I’m afraid, Becky, I should think,’ he said, with a tremor in his voice. ‘But I’m a pretty good mark for a shot, and you see if it brings me down, why I leave one and perhaps two behind me whom I should wish to provide for, as I brought ‘em into the scrape. It is no laughing matter that, Mrs. C., anyways.’
但这些都只是过去的日子和说说而已了。当战役开始、部队即将行军的最后消息传来时，罗登的态度变得如此严肃，以至于贝基以一种相当伤害卫兵感情的方式团结他。 “你不认为我害怕，贝基，我应该这样想，”他声音颤抖地说。 “但我的射门成绩相当不错，你看这是否会让我失望，为什么我会留下一个或者两个我应该照顾的人，因为我把他们带入了困境。”无论如何，这并不是一件好笑的事，C女士。

Rebecca by a hundred caresses and kind words tried to soothe the feelings of the wounded lover. It was only when her vivacity and sense of humour got the better of this sprightly creature (as they would do under most circumstances of life indeed) that she would break out with her satire, but she could soon put on a demure face. ‘Dearest love,’ she said, ‘do you suppose I feel nothing?’ and hastily dashing something from her eyes, she looked up in her husband’s face with a smile.
丽贝卡用一百个爱抚和善意的话语试图安抚受伤爱人的感情。只有当她的活泼和幽默感战胜了这个活泼的生物（确实在生活的大多数情况下都会这样做）时，她才会爆发出讽刺，但她很快就会摆出一副端庄的表情。 “亲爱的，”她说，“你以为我什么感觉都没有吗？”她急忙甩掉眼睛里的东西，微笑着抬头看着丈夫的脸。

‘Look here,’ said he. ‘If I drop, let us see what there is for you. I have had a pretty good run of luck here, and here’s two hundred and thirty pounds. I have got ten Napoleons in my pocket. That is as much as I shall want; for the General pays everything like a prince; and if I’m hit, why you know I cost nothing. Don’t cry, little woman; I may live to vex you yet. Well, I shan’t take either of my horses, but shall ride the General’s grey charger: it’s cheaper, and I told him mine was lame. If I’m done, those two ought to fetch you something. Grigg offered ninety for the mare yesterday, before this confounded news came, and like a fool I wouldn’t let her go under the two o’s. Bullfinch will fetch his price any day, only you’d better sell him in this country, because the dealers have so many bills of mine, and so I’d rather he shouldn’t go back to England. Your little mare the General gave you will fetch something, and there’s no d—d livery stable bills here as there are in London,’ Rawdon added, with a laugh. ‘There’s that dressing-case cost me two hundred—that is, I owe two for it; and the gold tops and bottles must be worth thirty or forty. Please to put THAT up the spout, ma’am, with my pins, and rings, and watch and chain, and things. They cost a precious lot of money. Miss Crawley, I know, paid a hundred down for the chain and ticker. Gold tops and bottles, indeed! dammy, I’m sorry I didn’t take more now. Edwards pressed on me a silver-gilt boot-jack, and I might have had a dressing-case fitted up with a silver warming-pan, and a service of plate. But we must make the best of what we’ve got, Becky, you know.’
“看这里，”他说。 ‘如果我放弃了，让我们看看你能得到什么。我在这里运气很好，这里有两百三十英镑。我口袋里有十枚拿破仑。我想要的就这么多了；因为将军像王子一样付出一切；如果我被击中，为什么你知道我没有付出任何代价。别哭，小女人；我可能还活着惹恼你。好吧，我不会带走我的任何一匹马，但会骑将军的灰色战马：它更便宜，我告诉他我的马是跛脚的。如果我完成了，那两个人应该给你拿点东西。昨天，在这个令人困惑的消息传来之前，格里格为这匹母马出价九十美元，而我像个傻瓜一样不会让她在两点以下。红腹灰雀随时都会卖到他的价格，只是你最好在这个国家把他卖掉，因为经销商有很多我的账单，所以我宁愿他不要回英国。将军给你的小母马会帮你拿东西的，而且这里不像伦敦那样有马车费。”罗登笑着补充道。 “那个梳妆盒花了我两百块钱——也就是说，我欠两块钱。”金顶和金瓶必须值三十或四十。女士，请把它和我的别针、戒指、手表、链子和其他东西放在壶嘴上。他们花了很多钱。据我所知，克劳利小姐付了一百块钱买了链条和收报机。确实是金色的顶部和瓶子！天哪，我很抱歉我现在没有采取更多措施。爱德华兹给我塞了一个镀银的靴子插孔，我可能会得到一个配有银色加热盘的梳妆盒和一套盘子。但我们必须充分利用我们所拥有的一切，贝基，你知道。”

And so, making his last dispositions, Captain Crawley, who had seldom thought about anything but himself, until the last few months of his life, when Love had obtained the mastery over the dragoon, went through the various items of his little catalogue of effects, striving to see how they might be turned into money for his wife’s benefit, in case any accident should befall him. He pleased himself by noting down with a pencil, in his big schoolboy handwriting, the various items of his portable property which might be sold for his widow’s advantage as, for example, ‘My double-barril by Manton, say 40 guineas; my driving cloak, lined with sable fur, 50 pounds; my duelling pistols in rosewood case (same which I shot Captain Marker), 20 pounds; my regulation saddle-holsters and housings; my Laurie ditto,’ and so forth, over all of which articles he made Rebecca the mistress.
因此，克劳利上尉在做出最后的部署时，除了他自己之外很少考虑任何事情，直到他生命的最后几个月，当洛夫掌握了龙骑兵时，他才检查了他的小效果目录中的各个项目。 ，努力看看如何将它们变成钱给他妻子的利益，以防他发生任何意外。他取悦自己，用铅笔用他大学生的笔迹记下他的随身财产中的各种物品，这些物品可能会为了他的遗孀的利益而出售，例如，“我的曼顿双桶，比如说40基尼；我的双桶，比如说40基尼；”我的驾驶斗篷，内衬貂皮，50磅；我的决斗手枪装在紫檀木盒里（和我射杀马克队长的那把手枪一样），20磅；我的调节马鞍皮套和外壳；我的劳里同上，”等等，在所有这些文章中，他都让丽贝卡成为情妇。

Faithful to his plan of economy, the Captain dressed himself in his oldest and shabbiest uniform and epaulets, leaving the newest behind, under his wife’s (or it might be his widow’s) guardianship. And this famous dandy of Windsor and Hyde Park went off on his campaign with a kit as modest as that of a sergeant, and with something like a prayer on his lips for the woman he was leaving. He took her up from the ground, and held her in his arms for a minute, tight pressed against his strong-beating heart. His face was purple and his eyes dim, as he put her down and left her. He rode by his General’s side, and smoked his cigar in silence as they hastened after the troops of the General’s brigade, which preceded them; and it was not until they were some miles on their way that he left off twirling his moustache and broke silence.
忠实于他的节约计划，上尉穿上了他最旧、最破旧的制服和肩章，把最新的留下，由他的妻子（或者可能是他的遗孀）监护。这位温莎和海德公园著名的花花公子出发去参加竞选时，穿着一套像中士一样朴素的装备，嘴里还挂着类似为他要离开的女人祈祷的东西。他把她从地上抱起来，抱在怀里一分钟，紧紧地贴在他剧烈跳动的心脏上。他脸色发紫，眼神黯淡，放下她，离开了她。他骑在将军身边，默默地抽着雪茄，他们追赶着前面的将军旅的部队。直到他们走了几英里之后，他才不再捻着胡子，打破了沉默。

And Rebecca, as we have said, wisely determined not to give way to unavailing sentimentality on her husband’s departure. She waved him an adieu from the window, and stood there for a moment looking out after he was gone. The cathedral towers and the full gables of the quaint old houses were just beginning to blush in the sunrise. There had been no rest for her that night. She was still in her pretty ball-dress, her fair hair hanging somewhat out of curl on her neck, and the circles round her eyes dark with watching. ‘What a fright I seem,’ she said, examining herself in the glass, ‘and how pale this pink makes one look!’ So she divested herself of this pink raiment; in doing which a note fell out from her corsage, which she picked up with a smile, and locked into her dressing-box. And then she put her bouquet of the ball into a glass of water, and went to bed, and slept very comfortably.
正如我们所说，丽贝卡明智地决定在丈夫离开时不屈服于徒劳的感伤。她在窗外向他挥手告别，等他走后，她站在那儿望着窗外。大教堂的塔楼和古色古香的老房子的完整山墙在日出中刚刚开始泛红。那天晚上她没有休息。她仍然穿着那件漂亮的舞会礼服，金色的头发有点卷曲地垂在脖子上，眼睛周围的圆圈因注视而变黑。 “我看起来多么害怕啊，”她一边说，一边在镜子里审视着自己，“这粉色的衣服看起来多么苍白啊！”于是她脱掉了这件粉色的衣服；这样做的时候，一张纸条从她的胸花里掉了出来，她微笑着把它捡起来，锁进了她的化妆盒里。然后她把球花放入一杯水中，然后上床睡觉，睡得很舒服。

The town was quite quiet when she woke up at ten o’clock, and partook of coffee, very requisite and comforting after the exhaustion and grief of the morning’s occurrences.
当她十点钟醒来时，小镇很安静，喝了杯咖啡，在经历了早上的疲惫和悲伤之后，咖啡是非常必要的和安慰的。

This meal over, she resumed honest Rawdon’s calculations of the night previous, and surveyed her position. Should the worst befall, all things considered, she was pretty well to do. There were her own trinkets and trousseau, in addition to those which her husband had left behind. Rawdon’s generosity, when they were first married, has already been described and lauded. Besides these, and the little mare, the General, her slave and worshipper, had made her many very handsome presents, in the shape of cashmere shawls bought at the auction of a bankrupt French general’s lady, and numerous tributes from the jewellers’ shops, all of which betokened her admirer’s taste and wealth. As for ‘tickers,’ as poor Rawdon called watches, her apartments were alive with their clicking. For, happening to mention one night that hers, which Rawdon had given to her, was of English workmanship, and went ill, on the very next morning there came to her a little bijou marked Leroy, with a chain and cover charmingly set with turquoises, and another signed Brequet, which was covered with pearls, and yet scarcely bigger than a half-crown. General Tufto had bought one, and Captain Osborne had gallantly presented the other. Mrs. Osborne had no watch, though, to do George justice, she might have had one for the asking, and the Honourable Mrs. Tufto in England had an old instrument of her mother’s that might have served for the plate-warming pan which Rawdon talked about. If Messrs. Howell and James were to publish a list of the purchasers of all the trinkets which they sell, how surprised would some families be: and if all these ornaments went to gentlemen’s lawful wives and daughters, what a profusion of jewellery there would be exhibited in the genteelest homes of Vanity Fair!
这顿饭结束后，她恢复了罗登前一天晚上的诚实计算，并测量了自己的位置。考虑到所有因素，如果最坏的情况发生，她已经做得很好了。除了她丈夫留下的东西之外，还有她自己的小饰品和嫁妆。当他们刚结婚时，罗登的慷慨就已经被描述和称赞了。除此之外，还有那匹小母马，将军，她的奴隶和崇拜者，还给她做了许多非常漂亮的礼物，比如从一位破产的法国将军夫人的拍卖会上买来的羊绒披肩，还有珠宝店的无数贡品，所有这些都表明了她的崇拜者的品味和财富。至于“自动收报机”，可怜的罗登把手表称为“自动收报机”，她的公寓里充满了它们的咔嗒声。因为，有一天晚上，她碰巧提到罗登送给她的那件是英国做工的，并且病了，第二天早上，她就收到了一件标有勒罗伊的小珠宝，上面有一条链子，盖子上镶嵌着迷人的绿松石。 ，还有一张签名为“Brequet”，上面布满了珍珠，但只比半克朗大不了多少。塔夫托将军买了一份，奥斯本上尉则慷慨地赠送了另一份。奥斯本夫人没有手表，不过，公平地说，她可能有一块手表供乔治要求，而英国的尊敬的塔夫托夫人有她母亲的一件旧仪器，可能是用来给罗登煮的盘子加热的锅。讨论过。如果豪厄尔和詹姆斯先生要公布他们出售的所有小饰品的购买者名单，一些家庭会感到多么惊讶：如果所有这些装饰品都送给了绅士们的合法妻子和女儿，那将会有多么丰富的珠宝在名利场最优雅的家里展出！

Every calculation made of these valuables Mrs. Rebecca found, not without a pungent feeling of triumph and self-satisfaction, that should circumstances occur, she might reckon on six or seven hundred pounds at the very least, to begin the world with; and she passed the morning disposing, ordering, looking out, and locking up her properties in the most agreeable manner. Among the notes in Rawdon’s pocket-book was a draft for twenty pounds on Osborne’s banker. This made her think about Mrs. Osborne. ‘I will go and get the draft cashed,’ she said, ‘and pay a visit afterwards to poor little Emmy.’ If this is a novel without a hero, at least let us lay claim to a heroine. No man in the British army which has marched away, not the great Duke himself, could be more cool or collected in the presence of doubts and difficulties, than the indomitable little aide-de-camp’s wife.
丽贝卡夫人对这些贵重物品进行的每一次计算都发现，不无一种辛辣的胜利感和自我满足感，如果情况发生，她估计至少有六七百英镑，开始这个世界；她以最令人愉快的方式处理、整理、照看并锁定她的财产，度过了整个上午。罗登钱包里的钞票中有一张奥斯本银行家的二十英镑汇票。这让她想起了奥斯本夫人。 “我要去兑现选秀，”她说，“然后去拜访可怜的小艾美。”如果这是一本没有英雄的小说，至少让我们宣称有一个女英雄。在行军离开的英国军队中，除了伟大的公爵本人之外，在面对疑虑和困难时，没有人比这位不屈不挠的小副官的妻子更冷静和镇定。

And there was another of our acquaintances who was also to be left behind, a non-combatant, and whose emotions and behaviour we have therefore a right to know. This was our friend the ex-collector of Boggley Wollah, whose rest was broken, like other people’s, by the sounding of the bugles in the early morning. Being a great sleeper, and fond of his bed, it is possible he would have snoozed on until his usual hour of rising in the forenoon, in spite of all the drums, bugles, and bagpipes in the British army, but for an interruption, which did not come from George Osborne, who shared Jos’s quarters with him, and was as usual occupied too much with his own affairs or with grief at parting with his wife, to think of taking leave of his slumbering brother-in-law—it was not George, we say, who interposed between Jos Sedley and sleep, but Captain Dobbin, who came and roused him up, insisting on shaking hands with him before his departure.
我们还有另一个熟人，他也被抛在后面，他是一名非战斗人员，因此我们有权了解他的情绪和行为。这是我们的朋友，博格利·沃拉的前收藏家，他的休息和其他人一样，被清晨的军号声打破了。作为一个睡得很好的人，而且喜欢他的床，他很可能会一直睡到正常的上午起床的时间，尽管英国军队里有鼓声、军号和风笛，但如果没有中断，这不是来自乔治·奥斯本，他与乔斯同住一处，像往常一样忙于自己的事情，或者因与妻子分离而悲伤，没有想到要离开他熟睡的姐夫——我们说，介入乔斯·塞德利和睡眠之间的不是乔治，而是多宾船长，他过来把他叫醒，并坚持在他离开前与他握手。

‘Very kind of you,’ said Jos, yawning, and wishing the Captain at the deuce.
“你真是太好了，”乔斯打着哈欠说道，并祝愿船长平局。

‘I—I didn’t like to go off without saying good-bye, you know,’ Dobbin said in a very incoherent manner; ‘because you know some of us mayn’t come back again, and I like to see you all well, and—and that sort of thing, you know.’
“你知道，我——我不喜欢不辞而别就走，”多宾语无伦次地说。 “因为你知道我们中的一些人可能不会再回来了，我希望看到你们一切都好，而且——诸如此类的事情，你知道。”

‘What do you mean?’ Jos asked, rubbing his eyes. The Captain did not in the least hear him or look at the stout gentleman in the nightcap, about whom he professed to have such a tender interest. The hypocrite was looking and listening with all his might in the direction of George’s apartments, striding about the room, upsetting the chairs, beating the tattoo, biting his nails, and showing other signs of great inward emotion.
“你什么意思？”乔斯揉着眼睛问道。船长根本没有听他说话，也没有看这位戴着睡帽的胖绅士，他声称对他怀有如此浓厚的兴趣。这个伪君子正用尽全力朝乔治公寓的方向看、听，在房间里大步走来，打翻椅子，敲打纹身，咬指甲，并表现出其他强烈的内心情感迹象。

Jos had always had rather a mean opinion of the Captain, and now began to think his courage was somewhat equivocal. ‘What is it I can do for you, Dobbin?’ he said, in a sarcastic tone.
乔斯一直对船长抱有相当刻薄的看法，现在开始认为他的勇气有些模棱两可。 “多宾，我能为你做什么？”他用讽刺的语气说道。

‘I tell you what you can do,’ the Captain replied, coming up to the bed; ‘we march in a quarter of an hour, Sedley, and neither George nor I may ever come back. Mind you, you are not to stir from this town until you ascertain how things go. You are to stay here and watch over your sister, and comfort her, and see that no harm comes to her. If anything happens to George, remember she has no one but you in the world to look to. If it goes wrong with the army, you’ll see her safe back to England; and you will promise me on your word that you will never desert her. I know you won’t: as far as money goes, you were always free enough with that. Do you want any? I mean, have you enough gold to take you back to England in case of a misfortune?’
“我告诉你你能做什么，”船长回答道，走到床边。 “塞德利，一刻钟后我们就出发了，乔治和我都可能永远不会回来了。请注意，在确定事情进展之前，不要离开这个城镇。你要留在这里照顾你的妹妹，安慰她，确保她不会受到伤害。如果乔治出了什么事，请记住，除了你之外，她在世界上没有人可以依靠。如果军队出了问题，你会看到她安全返回英国；你会向我保证你永远不会抛弃她。我知道你不会：就金钱而言，你总是有足够的自由。你想要吗？我的意思是，如果发生不幸，你有足够的金子带你回英国吗？

‘Sir,’ said Jos, majestically, ‘when I want money, I know where to ask for it. And as for my sister, you needn’t tell me how I ought to behave to her.’
“先生，”乔斯威严地说，“当我想要钱时，我知道去哪里要。至于我妹妹，你不必告诉我应该如何对待她。

‘You speak like a man of spirit, Jos,’ the other answered goodnaturedly, ‘and I am glad that George can leave her in such good hands. So I may give him your word of honour, may I, that in case of extremity you will stand by her?’
“乔斯，你说话像个有精神的人，”对方和蔼地回答道，“我很高兴乔治能把她交给这么好的人照顾。”所以我可以向他保证，万一遇到危难，你会站在她一边吗？

‘Of course, of course,’ answered Mr. Jos, whose generosity in money matters Dobbin estimated quite correctly.
“当然，当然，”乔斯先生回答道，多宾对他在金钱问题上的慷慨程度估计得相当正确。

‘And you’ll see her safe out of Brussels in the event of a defeat?’
“如果失败，你会看到她安全离开布鲁塞尔吗？”

‘A defeat! D—it, sir, it’s impossible. Don’t try and frighten ME,’ the hero cried from his bed; and Dobbin’s mind was thus perfectly set at ease now that Jos had spoken out so resolutely respecting his conduct to his sister. ‘At least,’ thought the Captain, ‘there will be a retreat secured for her in case the worst should ensue.’
‘失败了！ D——这，先生，这是不可能的。不要试图吓唬我，”英雄在床上喊道；既然乔斯如此坚决地尊重他对妹妹的行为，多宾的心情就完全放松了。 “至少，”船长想，“万一发生最坏的情况，她会有一个撤退的地方。”

If Captain Dobbin expected to get any personal comfort and satisfaction from having one more view of Amelia before the regiment marched away, his selfishness was punished just as such odious egotism deserved to be. The door of Jos’s bedroom opened into the sitting-room which was common to the family party, and opposite this door was that of Amelia’s chamber. The bugles had wakened everybody: there was no use in concealment now. George’s servant was packing in this room: Osborne coming in and out of the contiguous bedroom, flinging to the man such articles as he thought fit to carry on the campaign. And presently Dobbin had the opportunity which his heart coveted, and he got sight of Amelia’s face once more. But what a face it was! So white, so wild and despair-stricken, that the remembrance of it haunted him afterwards like a crime, and the sight smote him with inexpressible pangs of longing and pity.
如果多宾上尉希望在部队出发前再看一眼阿米莉亚，从而获得个人的安慰和满足，那么他的自私就会受到惩罚，就像这种可恶的自私自利应得的惩罚一样。乔斯卧室的门通向家庭聚会共用的客厅，门对面就是阿米莉亚的房间。号角声惊醒了所有人：现在隐藏已经没有用了。乔治的仆人正在这个房间里收拾行李：奥斯本在相邻的卧室里进进出出，向他扔一些他认为适合进行竞选活动的物品。不久，多宾得到了他内心渴望的机会，他再次看到了阿米莉亚的脸。但这是一张怎样的脸啊！那么苍白，那么狂野，那么绝望，以至于后来想起这件事就像犯罪一样困扰着他，这一景象让他感到难以言表的渴望和怜悯的痛苦。

She was wrapped in a white morning dress, her hair falling on her shoulders, and her large eyes fixed and without light. By way of helping on the preparations for the departure, and showing that she too could be useful at a moment so critical, this poor soul had taken up a sash of George’s from the drawers whereon it lay, and followed him to and fro with the sash in her hand, looking on mutely as his packing proceeded. She came out and stood, leaning at the wall, holding this sash against her bosom, from which the heavy net of crimson dropped like a large stain of blood. Our gentle-hearted Captain felt a guilty shock as he looked at her. ‘Good God,’ thought he, ‘and is it grief like this I dared to pry into?’ And there was no help: no means to soothe and comfort this helpless, speechless misery. He stood for a moment and looked at her, powerless and torn with pity, as a parent regards an infant in pain.
她裹着一件白色的晨礼服，头发披散在肩上，一双大眼睛死死地盯着，没有光芒。为了帮助做好出发的准备，并表明她在如此关键的时刻也能发挥作用，这个可怜的灵魂从抽屉里拿起了乔治的一条腰带，带着那条带子跟着他来来回回。她手里拿着腰带，默默地看着他收拾行李。她出来，靠着墙站着，把这条腰带抱在胸前，那张厚重的深红色网从腰带上掉下来，像一大片血迹。我们心地善良的船长看着她，心里感到一阵愧疚。 “天哪，”他想，“我竟然敢窥探这样的悲伤吗？”但没有任何帮助：没有办法来抚慰和安慰这种无助、无言的痛苦。他站了一会儿，看着她，无能为力，充满怜悯，就像父母看着痛苦的婴儿一样。

At last, George took Emmy’s hand, and led her back into the bedroom, from whence he came out alone. The parting had taken place in that moment, and he was gone.
最后，乔治拉着艾米的手，带她回到卧室，他独自从卧室出来。离别就在那一刻发生了，他走了。

‘Thank Heaven that is over,’ George thought, bounding down the stair, his sword under his arm, as he ran swiftly to the alarm ground, where the regiment was mustered, and whither trooped men and officers hurrying from their billets; his pulse was throbbing and his cheeks flushed: the great game of war was going to be played, and he one of the players. What a fierce excitement of doubt, hope, and pleasure! What tremendous hazards of loss or gain! What were all the games of chance he had ever played compared to this one? Into all contests requiring athletic skill and courage, the young man, from his boyhood upwards, had flung himself with all his might. The champion of his school and his regiment, the bravos of his companions had followed him everywhere; from the boys’ cricket-match to the garrison-races, he had won a hundred of triumphs; and wherever he went women and men had admired and envied him. What qualities are there for which a man gets so speedy a return of applause, as those of bodily superiority, activity, and valour? Time out of mind strength and courage have been the theme of bards and romances; and from the story of Troy down to to-day, poetry has always chosen a soldier for a hero. I wonder is it because men are cowards in heart that they admire bravery so much, and place military valour so far beyond every other quality for reward and worship?
“谢天谢地，一切都结束了，”乔治一边想，一边跳下楼梯，腋下夹着剑，同时迅速跑到警报场，部队在那里集结，成群结队的士兵和军官正从他们的营房里匆匆忙忙地跑到那里。他的脉搏在跳动，脸颊涨红：伟大的战争游戏即将上演，而他就是其中的参与者之一。怀疑、希望和快乐是多么强烈的兴奋啊！损失或收益的危险是多么巨大啊！与这一场相比，他玩过的所有运气游戏算什么？参加所有需要运动技巧和勇气的比赛，这个年轻人从少年时代起就全力以赴。他是学校和团里的冠军，无论走到哪里，同伴们的欢呼声都伴随着他。从男孩板球比赛到驻军比赛，他已经赢得了上百次胜利。无论他走到哪里，女人和男人都对他钦佩和嫉妒。一个人有什么品质，能像身体优越、积极主动和英勇那样，如此迅速地赢得掌声呢？失去理智的时间力量和勇气一直是吟游诗人和浪漫史的主题；从特洛伊的故事一直到今天，诗歌总是选择士兵作为英雄。我想知道，是不是因为人们内心都是懦夫，所以他们才如此钦佩勇敢，并将军事英勇视为远超其他一切品质的奖励和崇拜？

So, at the sound of that stirring call to battle, George jumped away from the gentle arms in which he had been dallying; not without a feeling of shame (although his wife’s hold on him had been but feeble), that he should have been detained there so long. The same feeling of eagerness and excitement was amongst all those friends of his of whom we have had occasional glimpses, from the stout senior Major, who led the regiment into action, to little Stubble, the Ensign, who was to bear its colours on that day.
于是，听到那激动人心的战斗号角声，乔治跳开了他一直在温柔的怀抱中；他不免感到羞耻（尽管他妻子对他的控制很微弱），他竟然被关在那里这么久。同样的渴望和兴奋感也出现在我们偶尔瞥见的所有他的朋友们身上，从带领团投入战斗的粗壮的高级少校，到小斯塔布尔，少尉，他将在这支部队上留下自己的色彩。天。

The sun was just rising as the march began—it was a gallant sight— the band led the column, playing the regimental march—then came the Major in command, riding upon Pyramus, his stout charger—then marched the grenadiers, their Captain at their head; in the centre were the colours, borne by the senior and junior Ensigns—then George came marching at the head of his company. He looked up, and smiled at Amelia, and passed on; and even the sound of the music died away.
太阳刚刚升起，行军开始了——那是一个英勇的景象——乐队带领着纵队，演奏团进行曲——然后少校指挥，骑着皮拉摩斯，他那匹粗壮的战马——然后是掷弹兵行进，他们的连长在他们的头；中间是由高级和初级少尉所代表的颜色——然后乔治在他的连队的前面走来。他抬起头，对阿米莉亚微笑，然后走开了。甚至音乐声也消失了。

Chapter XXXI
第三十一章


In Which Jos Sedley Takes Care of His Sister
乔斯·塞德利照顾他的妹妹

Thus all the superior officers being summoned on duty elsewhere, Jos Sedley was left in command of the little colony at Brussels, with Amelia invalided, Isidor, his Belgian servant, and the bonne, who was maid-of-all-work for the establishment, as a garrison under him. Though he was disturbed in spirit, and his rest destroyed by Dobbin’s interruption and the occurrences of the morning, Jos nevertheless remained for many hours in bed, wakeful and rolling about there until his usual hour of rising had arrived. The sun was high in the heavens, and our gallant friends of the —th miles on their march, before the civilian appeared in his flowered dressinggown at breakfast.
因此，所有上级军官都被召集到其他地方执行任务，乔斯·塞德利被留下来指挥布鲁塞尔的这个小殖民地，阿米莉亚残疾了，伊西多尔，他的比利时仆人，还有邦纳，她是该机构的所有工作的女仆。 ，作为他手下的驻军。尽管乔斯的精神受到了困扰，并且由于多宾的打扰和早上发生的事情而破坏了他的休息，但乔斯仍然在床上躺了好几个小时，醒着，在床上打滚，直到他通常的起床时间到来。太阳高高地挂在天空中，我们英勇的朋友们正在行进，然后早餐时，平民穿着他的花朵晨衣出现了。

About George’s absence, his brother-in-law was very easy in mind. Perhaps Jos was rather pleased in his heart that Osborne was gone, for during George’s presence, the other had played but a very secondary part in the household, and Osborne did not scruple to show his contempt for the stout civilian. But Emmy had always been good and attentive to him. It was she who ministered to his comforts, who superintended the dishes that he liked, who walked or rode with him (as she had many, too many, opportunities of doing, for where was George?) and who interposed her sweet face between his anger and her husband’s scorn. Many timid remonstrances had she uttered to George in behalf of her brother, but the former in his trenchant way cut these entreaties short. ‘I’m an honest man,’ he said, ‘and if I have a feeling I show it, as an honest man will. How the deuce, my dear, would you have me behave respectfully to such a fool as your brother?’ So Jos was pleased with George’s absence. His plain hat, and gloves on a sideboard, and the idea that the owner was away, caused Jos I don’t know what secret thrill of pleasure. ‘HE won’t be troubling me this morning,’ Jos thought, ‘with his dandified airs and his impudence.’
对于乔治的缺席，他的姐夫心里很轻松。也许乔斯心里对奥斯本的离开感到相当高兴，因为在乔治在的时候，奥斯本在家里只扮演了一个非常次要的角色，奥斯本毫不犹豫地表现出对这个粗壮平民的蔑视。但艾美一直对他很好，很关心。是她让他感到舒适，是她负责他喜欢的菜肴，是她和他一起散步或骑马（因为她有很多、太多的机会这样做，因为乔治在哪里？） 是她把她甜美的脸插在他的中间。愤怒和丈夫的蔑视。她代表她哥哥向乔治提出了许多胆怯的抗议，但乔治以尖锐的方式打断了这些恳求。 “我是一个诚实的人，”他说，“如果我有感觉，我就会表现出来，就像一个诚实的人会做的那样。”亲爱的，你想让我对你弟弟这样的傻瓜表现出尊重吗？”所以乔斯对乔治的缺席感到很高兴。他朴素的帽子、放在餐具柜上的手套，以及主人不在的想法，给乔斯带来了一种不知道是什么秘密的快感。 “今天早上他不会用他的花哨和无礼来打扰我，”乔斯想。

‘Put the Captain’s hat into the ante-room,’ he said to Isidor, the servant.
“把船长的帽子放进前厅，”他对仆人伊西多说。

‘Perhaps he won’t want it again,’ replied the lackey, looking knowingly at his master. He hated George too, whose insolence towards him was quite of the English sort.
“也许他不会再想要了，”仆人回答道，心领神会地看着他的主人。他也讨厌乔治，乔治对他的无礼态度完全是英国式的。

‘And ask if Madame is coming to breakfast,’ Mr. Sedley said with great majesty, ashamed to enter with a servant upon the subject of his dislike for George. The truth is, he had abused his brother to the valet a score of times before.
“问问夫人是否来吃早餐。”塞德利先生威严地说道，他羞于带着仆人走进来谈论他不喜欢乔治的话题。事实是，他之前曾多次向男仆虐待他的兄弟。

Alas! Madame could not come to breakfast, and cut the tartines that Mr. Jos liked. Madame was a great deal too ill, and had been in a frightful state ever since her husband’s departure, so her bonne said. Jos showed his sympathy by pouring her out a large cup of tea It was his way of exhibiting kindness: and he improved on this; he not only sent her breakfast, but he bethought him what delicacies she would most like for dinner.
唉!夫人不能来吃早餐，也不能切乔斯先生喜欢的馅饼。夫人病得很重，自从她丈夫走后，她的状态一直很糟糕，她的婆婆说。乔斯给她倒了一大杯茶来表示同情，这是他表达善意的方式：他在这一点上有所改进；他不仅给她送了早餐，还为她想好了晚餐最想吃什么美食。

Isidor, the valet, had looked on very sulkily, while Osborne’s servant was disposing of his master’s baggage previous to the Captain’s departure: for in the first place he hated Mr. Osborne, whose conduct to him, and to all inferiors, was generally overbearing (nor does the continental domestic like to be treated with insolence as our own better-tempered servants do), and secondly, he was angry that so many valuables should be removed from under his hands, to fall into other people’s possession when the English discomfiture should arrive. Of this defeat he and a vast number of other persons in Brussels and Belgium did not make the slightest doubt. The almost universal belief was, that the Emperor would divide the Prussian and English armies, annihilate one after the other, and march into Brussels before three days were over: when all the movables of his present masters, who would be killed, or fugitives, or prisoners, would lawfully become the property of Monsieur Isidor.
当奥斯本的仆人在船长离开之前处理他主人的行李时，男仆伊西多郁闷地看着他：因为首先他讨厌奥斯本先生，他对他和所有下属的行为通常是专横的（大陆国内的仆人也不喜欢像我们脾气更好的仆人那样受到无礼的对待），其次，他很生气，当英国人陷入困境时，这么多贵重物品应该从他的手中移走，落入其他人的手中。应该到达。他以及布鲁塞尔和比利时的许多其他人士对这次失败没有丝毫怀疑。几乎普遍的信念是，皇帝将分裂普鲁士和英国军队，歼灭一支又一支，并在三天结束前进军布鲁塞尔：届时他现任主人的所有动产（他们将被杀死）或逃亡者，或囚犯，将合法成为伊西多尔先生的财产。

As he helped Jos through his toilsome and complicated daily toilette, this faithful servant would calculate what he should do with the very articles with which he was decorating his master’s person. He would make a present of the silver essence-bottles and toilet knicknacks to a young lady of whom he was fond; and keep the English cutlery and the large ruby pin for himself. It would look very smart upon one of the fine frilled shirts, which, with the gold-laced cap and the frogged frock coat, that might easily be cut down to suit his shape, and the Captain’s gold-headed cane, and the great double ring with the rubies, which he would have made into a pair of beautiful earrings, he calculated would make a perfect Adonis of himself, and render Mademoiselle Reine an easy prey. ‘How those sleeve-buttons will suit me!’ thought he, as he fixed a pair on the fat pudgy wrists of Mr. Sedley. ‘I long for sleeve-buttons; and the Captain’s boots with brass spurs, in the next room, corbleu! what an effect they will make in the Allee Verte!’ So while Monsieur Isidor with bodily fingers was holding on to his master’s nose, and shaving the lower part of Jos’s face, his imagination was rambling along the Green Avenue, dressed out in a frogged coat and lace, and in company with Mademoiselle Reine; he was loitering in spirit on the banks, and examining the barges sailing slowly under the cool shadows of the trees by the canal, or refreshing himself with a mug of Faro at the bench of a beer-house on the road to Laeken.
当他帮助乔斯完成繁琐而复杂的日常盥洗时，这位忠实的仆人会计算出他应该如何处理他用来装饰主人的物品。他会把银色的香精瓶和盥洗用品送给他喜欢的一位年轻女士；并把英国餐具和大红宝石别针留给自己。穿上一件精美的褶边衬衫，搭配金色蕾丝帽子和青蛙长礼服，可以很容易地剪裁以适合他的形状，还有船长的金头手杖，还有巨大的双肩，这件衬衫会显得非常漂亮。戴上红宝石的戒指，他会把它做成一对漂亮的耳环，他认为这会让他自己成为一个完美的阿多尼斯，让雷讷小姐成为一个容易被捕的猎物。 “这些袖子纽扣多么适合我啊！”他一边想，一边在塞德利先生胖胖的手腕上系上一颗。 “我渴望有袖扣；还有船长的带黄铜马刺的靴子，在隔壁房间，科尔布卢！他们在绿色大道上会产生多么大的效果啊！”因此，当伊西多先生用身体的手指捏住他主人的鼻子，给乔斯的脸下半部分剃毛时，他的想象力沿着绿色大道漫步，穿着青蛙的衣服。外套和蕾丝，并与雷讷小姐一起；他兴高采烈地在河岸上闲逛，检查在运河旁凉爽的树荫下缓慢航行的驳船，或者在通往拉肯的路上一家啤酒屋的长凳上喝一杯法鲁啤酒提神。

But Mr. Joseph Sedley, luckily for his own peace, no more knew what was passing in his domestic’s mind than the respected reader, and I suspect what John or Mary, whose wages we pay, think of ourselves. What our servants think of us!—Did we know what our intimates and dear relations thought of us, we should live in a world that we should be glad to quit, and in a frame of mind and a constant terror, that would be perfectly unbearable. So Jos’s man was marking his victim down, as you see one of Mr. Paynter’s assistants in Leadenhall Street ornament an unconscious turtle with a placard on which is written, ‘Soup to-morrow.’
但约瑟夫·塞德利先生，幸运的是他自己的平静，并不比受人尊敬的读者更了解他的家人的想法，我怀疑我们支付工资的约翰或玛丽对我们自己的看法。我们的仆人对我们的看法！——如果我们知道我们的密友和亲爱的亲戚对我们的看法，我们应该生活在一个我们应该高兴地离开的世界，并且处于一种心态和持续的恐惧之中，那将是完美的难以忍受。所以乔斯的手下正在标记他的受害者，就像你看到佩恩特先生在利登霍尔街的一位助手用标语牌装饰一只昏迷不醒的乌龟一样，上面写着“明天喝汤”。

Amelia’s attendant was much less selfishly disposed. Few dependents could come near that kind and gentle creature without paying their usual tribute of loyalty and affection to her sweet and affectionate nature. And it is a fact that Pauline, the cook, consoled her mistress more than anybody whom she saw on this wretched morning; for when she found how Amelia remained for hours, silent, motionless, and haggard, by the windows in which she had placed herself to watch the last bayonets of the column as it marched away, the honest girl took the lady’s hand, and said, Tenez, Madame, estce qu’il n’est pas aussi a l’armee, mon homme a moi? with which she burst into tears, and Amelia falling into her arms, did likewise, and so each pitied and soothed the other.
阿米莉亚的侍从就没有那么自私了。很少有家属在接近这个善良而温柔的生物时，会对她甜美而深情的天性表示忠诚和喜爱。事实上，在这个不幸的早晨，厨师宝琳比她所见到的任何人都更能安慰她的女主人。因为当她发现阿米莉亚在窗边呆了好几个小时，一言不发，一动不动，憔悴不堪，她把自己放在窗户里，看着队伍行进时最后的刺刀，诚实的女孩握住了那位女士的手，说道：特内兹，夫人，这不是我们的军队，我的朋友吗？她泪流满面，阿米莉亚也投入了她的怀抱，两人互相怜悯、互相安慰。

Several times during the forenoon Mr. Jos’s Isidor went from his lodgings into the town, and to the gates of the hotels and lodginghouses round about the Parc, where the English were congregated, and there mingled with other valets, couriers, and lackeys, gathered such news as was abroad, and brought back bulletins for his master’s information. Almost all these gentlemen were in heart partisans of the Emperor, and had their opinions about the speedy end of the campaign. The Emperor’s proclamation from Avesnes had been distributed everywhere plentifully in Brussels. ‘Soldiers!’ it said, ‘this is the anniversary of Marengo and Friedland, by which the destinies of Europe were twice decided. Then, as after Austerlitz, as after Wagram, we were too generous. We believed in the oaths and promises of princes whom we suffered to remain upon their thrones. Let us march once more to meet them. We and they, are we not still the same men? Soldiers! these same Prussians who are so arrogant to-day, were three to one against you at Jena, and six to one at Montmirail. Those among you who were prisoners in England can tell their comrades what frightful torments they suffered on board the English hulks. Madmen! a moment of prosperity has blinded them, and if they enter into France it will be to find a grave there!’ But the partisans of the French prophesied a more speedy extermination of the Emperor’s enemies than this; and it was agreed on all hands that Prussians and British would never return except as prisoners in the rear of the conquering army.
上午，乔斯先生的伊西多尔有好几次从他的住所进城，到公园周围的旅馆和旅馆门口，英国人聚集在那里，并与其他男仆、信使和走狗混在一起，聚集在一起。等国外的消息，带回来给他的主人通报消息。几乎所有这些先生都是皇帝的心腹拥护者，对于尽快结束这场战役都有自己的看法。皇帝在阿韦讷发布的公告已在布鲁塞尔各处广泛散发。 “士兵们！”它说，“这是马伦戈和弗里德兰的周年纪念日，欧洲的命运由此两次决定。”然后，就像在奥斯特利茨之后，就像在瓦格拉姆之后一样，我们太慷慨了。我们相信王子们的誓言和承诺，我们让他们继续保住王位。让我们再次游行去迎接他们。我们和他们，不还是一样的人吗？士兵！这些今天如此傲慢的普鲁士人，在耶拿与你们的战绩为三比一，在蒙米拉伊则为六比一。你们中那些在英国当过囚犯的人可以告诉他们的战友他们在英国船舰上遭受了多么可怕的折磨。狂人！ “一时的繁荣蒙蔽了他们的双眼，如果他们进入法国，就会在那里找到坟墓！”但是，法国的支持者们预言，皇帝的敌人将会被更快地消灭掉。各方一致认为，普鲁士人和英国人除非作为征服者军队后方的俘虏，否则永远不会返回。

These opinions in the course of the day were brought to operate upon Mr. Sedley. He was told that the Duke of Wellington had gone to try and rally his army, the advance of which had been utterly crushed the night before.
这些意见当天就被带到了塞德利先生身上。他被告知威灵顿公爵已前去试图集结他的军队，而前一天晚上他的军队的前进已被彻底粉碎。

‘Crushed, psha!’ said Jos, whose heart was pretty stout at breakfast-time. ‘The Duke has gone to beat the Emperor as he has beaten all his generals before.’
“压垮了，psha！”乔斯说，他的心脏在早餐时间非常坚固。 “公爵去打败皇帝，就像他以前打败过他所有的将军一样。”

‘His papers are burned, his effects are removed, and his quarters are being got ready for the Duke of Dalmatia,’ Jos’s informant replied. ‘I had it from his own maitre d’hotel. Milor Duc de Richemont’s people are packing up everything. His Grace has fled already, and the Duchess is only waiting to see the plate packed to join the King of France at Ostend.’
“他的文件被烧毁，他的随身物品被拿走，他的住处正在为达尔马提亚公爵准备好，”乔斯的线人回答道。 “我从他自己的酒店领班那里得到的。历峰大公的人正在收拾一切。陛下已经逃走了，公爵夫人只是等着看盘子装好，前往奥斯坦德与法国国王会合。

‘The King of France is at Ghent, fellow,’ replied Jos, affecting incredulity.
“法国国王在根特，伙计，”乔斯回答道，装出一副难以置信的样子。

‘He fled last night to Bruges, and embarks today from Ostend. The Duc de Berri is taken prisoner. Those who wish to be safe had better go soon, for the dykes will be opened to-morrow, and who can fly when the whole country is under water?’
“他昨晚逃往布鲁日，今天从奥斯坦德启程。贝里公爵被俘。那些想安全的人最好快点走，因为明天堤坝就会打开，当整个国家都被淹没时，谁能飞呢？

‘Nonsense, sir, we are three to one, sir, against any force Boney can bring into the field,’ Mr. Sedley objected; ‘the Austrians and the Russians are on their march. He must, he shall be crushed,’ Jos said, slapping his hand on the table.
“胡说，先生，我们是三比一，先生，对抗博尼可以带入战场的任何力量，”塞德利先生反对道。 “奥地利人和俄国人正在进军。他必须，他会被压垮的。”乔斯一边说，一边拍着桌子。

‘The Prussians were three to one at Jena, and he took their army and kingdom in a week. They were six to one at Montmirail, and he scattered them like sheep. The Austrian army is coming, but with the Empress and the King of Rome at its head; and the Russians, bah! the Russians will withdraw. No quarter is to be given to the English, on account of their cruelty to our braves on board the infamous pontoons. Look here, here it is in black and white. Here’s the proclamation of his Majesty the Emperor and King,’ said the now declared partisan of Napoleon, and taking the document from his pocket, Isidor sternly thrust it into his master’s face, and already looked upon the frogged coat and valuables as his own spoil.
“普鲁士人在耶拿以三比一，他在一周内就占领了他们的军队和王国。在蒙米拉伊，他们的比分是六比一，他把他们像羊一样驱散了。奥地利军队即将到来，但由皇后和罗马国王率领；还有俄罗斯人，呸！俄罗斯人将会撤军。英国人对臭名昭著的浮桥上的我们的勇敢者实施了残酷行为，因此我们不能对他们有任何怜悯。看这里，这是黑白的。这是皇帝陛下和国王陛下的公告，”现在宣布为拿破仑支持者的伊西多尔从口袋里掏出文件，严厉地把它塞到他主人的脸上，他已经把那件青蛙外套和贵重物品视为自己的战利品了。 。

Jos was, if not seriously alarmed as yet, at least considerably disturbed in mind. ‘Give me my coat and cap, sir, said he, ‘and follow me. I will go myself and learn the truth of these reports.’ Isidor was furious as Jos put on the braided frock. ‘Milor had better not wear that military coat,’ said he; ‘the Frenchmen have sworn not to give quarter to a single British soldier.’
乔斯即使还没有严重惊慌，至少心里也相当不安。 “先生，把我的外套和帽子给我，”他说，“跟我来。” “我会亲自去了解这些报道的真相。”当乔斯穿上辫子连衣裙时，伊西多尔非常愤怒。 “米勒最好不要穿那件军大衣，”他说。 “法国人发誓不留任何一个英国士兵。”

‘Silence, sirrah!’ said Jos, with a resolute countenance still, and thrust his arm into the sleeve with indomitable resolution, in the performance of which heroic act he was found by Mrs. Rawdon Crawley, who at this juncture came up to visit Amelia, and entered without ringing at the antechamber door.
“安静，先生！”乔斯说道，脸上仍然带着坚定的表情，并以不屈不挠的决心将手臂伸进袖子里，罗登·克劳利夫人发现了他的英雄行为，此时此刻，罗登·克劳利夫人过来拜访了阿米莉亚，没有按响前厅的门就进去了。

Rebecca was dressed very neatly and smartly, as usual: her quiet sleep after Rawdon’s departure had refreshed her, and her pink smiling cheeks were quite pleasant to look at, in a town and on a day when everybody else’s countenance wore the appearance of the deepest anxiety and gloom. She laughed at the attitude in which Jos was discovered, and the struggles and convulsions with which the stout gentleman thrust himself into the braided coat.
丽贝卡和往常一样，穿得非常整洁和漂亮：罗登离开后她安静的睡眠让她精神焕发，她粉红色的微笑脸颊看起来非常令人愉悦，在一个小镇上，在一个其他人的脸上都带着最深沉的表情的日子里。焦虑和忧郁。她嘲笑乔斯被发现时的态度，以及这位肥胖绅士把自己塞进辫子外套时的挣扎和抽搐。

‘Are you preparing to join the army, Mr. Joseph?’ she said. ‘Is there to be nobody left in Brussels to protect us poor women?’ Jos succeeded in plunging into the coat, and came forward blushing and stuttering out excuses to his fair visitor. ‘How was she after the events of the morning—after the fatigues of the ball the night before?’ Monsieur Isidor disappeared into his master’s adjacent bedroom, bearing off the flowered dressing-gown.
“约瑟夫先生，你准备参军吗？”她说。 “布鲁塞尔就没有人保护我们这些可怜的女人了吗？”乔斯成功地穿上了外套，红着脸走上前来，结结巴巴地向这位美丽的来客找借口。 “经历了早上的事情之后——经历了前一天晚上的舞会的疲惫之后，她怎么样了？”伊西多尔先生脱下那件带花的晨衣，消失在他主人的隔壁卧室里。

‘How good of you to ask,’ said she, pressing one of his hands in both her own. ‘How cool and collected you look when everybody else is frightened! How is our dear little Emmy? It must have been an awful, awful parting.’
“你能这么问真是太好了。”她一边说，一边将他的一只手握在自己的手里。 “当其他人都害怕的时候，你看起来多么冷静、镇定啊！”我们亲爱的小艾美还好吗？这一定是一次非常非常糟糕的离别。

‘Tremendous,’ Jos said.
“太棒了，”乔斯说。

‘You men can bear anything,’ replied the lady. ‘Parting or danger are nothing to you. Own now that you were going to join the army and leave us to our fate. I know you were—something tells me you were. I was so frightened, when the thought came into my head (for I do sometimes think of you when I am alone, Mr. Joseph), that I ran off immediately to beg and entreat you not to fly from us.’
“你们男人什么都能忍受，”女士回答道。 ‘离别或危险对你来说都不算什么。现在你要承认你要参军了，让我们听天由命。我知道你是——有件事告诉我你是。当这个想法出现在我的脑海中时，我非常害怕（因为有时当我独自一人时，我确实会想起你，约瑟夫先生），所以我立即跑去乞求你不要从我们身边飞走。

This speech might be interpreted, ‘My dear sir, should an accident befall the army, and a retreat be necessary, you have a very comfortable carriage, in which I propose to take a seat.’ I don’t know whether Jos understood the words in this sense. But he was profoundly mortified by the lady’s inattention to him during their stay at Brussels. He had never been presented to any of Rawdon Crawley’s great acquaintances: he had scarcely been invited to Rebecca’s parties; for he was too timid to play much, and his presence bored George and Rawdon equally, who neither of them, perhaps, liked to have a witness of the amusements in which the pair chose to indulge. ‘Ah!’ thought Jos, ‘now she wants me she comes to me. When there is nobody else in the way she can think about old Joseph Sedley!’ But besides these doubts he felt flattered at the idea Rebecca expressed of his courage.
这句话可能会被解读为，“亲爱的先生，如果军队发生意外，需要撤退，您有一辆非常舒适的马车，我建议坐在里面。”我不知道乔斯是否理解了这句话。这个意义上的词。但在布鲁塞尔逗留期间，这位女士对他的漠不关心让他深感羞愧。他从未被介绍给罗登·克劳利的任何一位熟人：他几乎没有被邀请参加丽贝卡的聚会；他几乎没有被邀请参加丽贝卡的聚会；他几乎没有被邀请参加丽贝卡的聚会；他几乎没有被邀请参加丽贝卡的聚会。因为他太胆小，不敢玩太多，而且他的出现同样让乔治和罗登感到无聊，也许他们俩都不喜欢看到两人选择沉迷其中的娱乐活动。 “啊！”乔斯想，“现在她想要我了，她就来找我了。”当没有其他人挡住她的路时，她就能想到老约瑟夫·塞德利！”但除了这些疑虑之外，他对丽贝卡表达的勇气感到受宠若惊。

He blushed a good deal, and put on an air of importance. ‘I should like to see the action,’ he said. ‘Every man of any spirit would, you know. I’ve seen a little service in India, but nothing on this grand scale.’
他脸红得很厉害，一副很重要的样子。 “我希望看到行动，”他说。 “你知道，任何有精神的人都会这么做。我在印度见过一些服务，但没有见过如此大规模的服务。”

‘You men would sacrifice anything for a pleasure,’ Rebecca answered. ‘Captain Crawley left me this morning as gay as if he were going to a hunting party. What does he care? What do any of you care for the agonies and tortures of a poor forsaken woman? (I wonder whether he could really have been going to the troops, this great lazy gourmand?) Oh! dear Mr. Sedley, I have come to you for comfort—for consolation. I have been on my knees all the morning. I tremble at the frightful danger into which our husbands, our friends, our brave troops and allies, are rushing. And I come here for shelter, and find another of my friends—the last remaining to me—bent upon plunging into the dreadful scene!’
“你们男人会为了快乐而牺牲一切。”丽贝卡回答道。 “克劳利船长今天早上离开我时心情愉快，就好像他要去参加狩猎聚会一样。他关心什么？对于一个被遗弃的可怜女人的痛苦和折磨，你们有什么关心吗？ （我想知道他这个大懒美食家是否真的去部队了？）哦！亲爱的塞德利先生，我来找你是为了安慰——为了安慰。我整个早上都跪着。我为我们的丈夫、我们的朋友、我们勇敢的军队和盟友所面临的可怕危险而颤抖。我来到这里寻求庇护，却发现我的另一个朋友——我仅存的最后一个朋友——一心想跳进这个可怕的场景！

‘My dear madam,’ Jos replied, now beginning to be quite soothed, ‘don’t be alarmed. I only said I should like to go—what Briton would not? But my duty keeps me here: I can’t leave that poor creature in the next room.’ And he pointed with his finger to the door of the chamber in which Amelia was.
“亲爱的女士，”乔斯回答道，他现在开始平静下来，“别惊慌。”我只是说我想去——英国人不愿意去吗？但我的职责让我留在这里：我不能把那个可怜的人留在隔壁房间。”他用手指着阿米莉亚所在的房间的门。

‘Good noble brother!’ Rebecca said, putting her handkerchief to her eyes, and smelling the eau-de-cologne with which it was scented. ‘I have done you injustice: you have got a heart. I thought you had not.’
“好高贵的兄弟！”丽贝卡一边说，一边用手帕捂住眼睛，闻着上面散发着的古龙香水味。 ‘我对你不公平：你有一颗心。我以为你没有。

‘O, upon my honour!’ Jos said, making a motion as if he would lay his hand upon the spot in question. ‘You do me injustice, indeed you do—my dear Mrs. Crawley.’
“哦，以我的名誉担保！”乔斯说道，做了个手势，好像要把手放在那个地方。 “你对我不公平，确实如此——我亲爱的克劳利夫人。”

‘I do, now your heart is true to your sister. But I remember two years ago—when it was false to me!’ Rebecca said, fixing her eyes upon him for an instant, and then turning away into the window.
‘是的，现在你的心对你的妹妹是忠诚的。但我记得两年前——当时这对我来说是假的！”丽贝卡说，眼睛盯着他一会儿，然后转向窗外。

Jos blushed violently. That organ which he was accused by Rebecca of not possessing began to thump tumultuously. He recalled the days when he had fled from her, and the passion which had once inflamed him—the days when he had driven her in his curricle: when she had knit the green purse for him: when he had sate enraptured gazing at her white arms and bright eyes.
乔斯脸红得厉害。丽贝卡指责他不拥有的那个器官开始剧烈地跳动。他回忆起他逃离她的那些日子，以及曾经点燃他的激情的那些日子——那些他在他的课程中驱使她的日子：当她为他编织绿色钱包的时候；当他坐在那里欣喜若狂地凝视着她的白色钱包的时候。手臂和明亮的眼睛。

‘I know you think me ungrateful,’ Rebecca continued, coming out of the window, and once more looking at him and addressing him in a low tremulous voice. ‘Your coldness, your averted looks, your manner when we have met of late—when I came in just now, all proved it to me. But were there no reasons why I should avoid you? Let your own heart answer that question. Do you think my husband was too much inclined to welcome you? The only unkind words I have ever had from him (I will do Captain Crawley that justice) have been about you— and most cruel, cruel words they were.’
“我知道你认为我忘恩负义，”丽贝卡继续说道，她从窗外走出来，再次看着他，用低沉而颤抖的声音对他说话。 ‘你的冷漠，你回避的眼神，你最近见面时的态度——我刚才进来的时候，都向我证明了这一点。但我没有理由回避你吗？让你自己的心回答这个问题。你认为我丈夫太欢迎你了吗？我从他那里听到过的唯一不友善的话语（我会对克劳利船长说句公道话）就是关于你的——而且是最残酷、最残酷的话语。

‘Good gracious! what have I done?’ asked Jos in a flurry of pleasure and perplexity; ‘what have I done—to—to—?’
'好亲切！ “我做了什么？”乔斯一边高兴一边困惑地问道。 “我做了什么——对——？”

‘Is jealousy nothing?’ said Rebecca. ‘He makes me miserable about you. And whatever it might have been once—my heart is all his. I am innocent now. Am I not, Mr. Sedley?’
“嫉妒算不了什么吗？”丽贝卡说。 ‘他让我为你感到痛苦。无论曾经是什么——我的心都属于他了。我现在是无辜的。我不是吗，塞德利先生？

All Jos’s blood tingled with delight, as he surveyed this victim to his attractions. A few adroit words, one or two knowing tender glances of the eyes, and his heart was inflamed again and his doubts and suspicions forgotten. From Solomon downwards, have not wiser men than he been cajoled and befooled by women? ‘If the worst comes to the worst,’ Becky thought, ‘my retreat is secure; and I have a right-hand seat in the barouche.’
当乔斯审视这个受害者的魅力时，他全身的血液都充满了喜悦。几句娴熟的话语，一两眼会心的温柔目光，他的心又被点燃了，他的疑虑和猜疑也被抛到了脑后。自所罗门以下，难道没有比他更聪明的人都被女人哄骗过吗？ “如果最坏的情况发生，”贝基想，“我的撤退是安全的；我坐在四轮马车的右手边。

There is no knowing into what declarations of love and ardour the tumultuous passions of Mr. Joseph might have led him, if Isidor the valet had not made his reappearance at this minute, and begun to busy himself about the domestic affairs. Jos, who was just going to gasp out an avowal, choked almost with the emotion that he was obliged to restrain. Rebecca too bethought her that it was time she should go in and comfort her dearest Amelia. ‘Au revoir,’ she said, kissing her hand to Mr. Joseph, and tapped gently at the door of his sister’s apartment. As she entered and closed the door on herself, he sank down in a chair, and gazed and sighed and puffed portentously. ‘That coat is very tight for Milor,’ Isidor said, still having his eye on the frogs; but his master heard him not: his thoughts were elsewhere: now glowing, maddening, upon the contemplation of the enchanting Rebecca: anon shrinking guiltily before the vision of the jealous Rawdon Crawley, with his curling, fierce mustachios, and his terrible duelling pistols loaded and cocked.
如果不是男仆伊西多此刻再次出现并开始忙于国内事务，我们不知道约瑟夫先生的汹涌激情会导致他做出什么样的爱情和热情宣言。乔斯正要气喘吁吁地表白，却因为不得不压抑的情绪而几乎噎住了。丽贝卡也认为是时候进去安慰她最亲爱的阿米莉亚了。 “再见，”她一边说，一边亲吻约瑟夫先生的手，然后轻轻地敲了敲他姐姐公寓的门。当她进来并关上门时，他在椅子上坐下，凝视着，叹了口气，不祥地喘着气。 “那件外套对米洛来说太紧了，”伊西多说，眼睛仍然盯着青蛙。但他的主人没有听到他的声音：他的思绪在别处：现在，在对迷人的丽贝卡的沉思中，他变得容光焕发，令人发狂：立刻在嫉妒的罗登·克劳利的目光面前愧疚地退缩了，他留着卷曲的、凶猛的小胡子，他那可怕的决斗手枪上膛了并翘起。

Rebecca’s appearance struck Amelia with terror, and made her shrink back. It recalled her to the world and the remembrance of yesterday. In the overpowering fears about to-morrow she had forgotten Rebecca—jealousy—everything except that her husband was gone and was in danger. Until this dauntless worldling came in and broke the spell, and lifted the latch, we too have forborne to enter into that sad chamber. How long had that poor girl been on her knees! what hours of speechless prayer and bitter prostration had she passed there! The war-chroniclers who write brilliant stories of fight and triumph scarcely tell us of these. These are too mean parts of the pageant: and you don’t hear widows’ cries or mothers’ sobs in the midst of the shouts and jubilation in the great Chorus of Victory. And yet when was the time that such have not cried out: heart-broken, humble protestants, unheard in the uproar of the triumph!
丽贝卡的出现让阿米莉亚感到恐惧，让她退缩了。它让她想起了这个世界和昨天的记忆。在对明天的强烈恐惧中，她忘记了丽贝卡——嫉妒——一切，只记得她的丈夫已经去世并且处于危险之中。直到这个无畏的世俗之人进来打破了魔咒，打开了门闩，我们才拒绝进入那个悲伤的房间。这个可怜的女孩已经跪了多久了！她在那里度过了多少个小时的无言祈祷和痛苦的跪拜！那些写下关于战斗和胜利的精彩故事的战争编年史家几乎没有告诉我们这些。这些都是选美比赛中过于卑鄙的部分：在伟大的胜利合唱团的欢呼声和欢呼声中，你听不到寡妇的哭泣或母亲的抽泣。然而，什么时候这样的人不曾大声疾呼：心碎的、谦卑的新教徒，在胜利的喧嚣中闻所未闻！

After the first movement of terror in Amelia’s mind—when Rebecca’s green eyes lighted upon her, and rustling in her fresh silks and brilliant ornaments, the latter tripped up with extended arms to embrace her—a feeling of anger succeeded, and from being deadly pale before, her face flushed up red, and she returned Rebecca’s look after a moment with a steadiness which surprised and somewhat abashed her rival.
在阿米莉亚心中第一次出现恐惧之后——当丽贝卡的绿眼睛落在她身上，她的新鲜丝绸和华丽的装饰品沙沙作响时，后者伸出双臂拥抱她——一种愤怒的感觉袭来，脸色变得死一般苍白。之前，她的脸涨得通红，过了一会儿，她以一种稳定的态度回应了丽贝卡，这让她的对手感到惊讶和有些羞愧。

‘Dearest Amelia, you are very unwell,’ the visitor said, putting forth her hand to take Amelia’s. ‘What is it? I could not rest until I knew how you were.’
“亲爱的阿米莉亚，你身体很不舒服，”来访者说，伸出手握住阿米莉亚的手。 '它是什么？在了解你的情况之前我无法休息。

Amelia drew back her hand—never since her life began had that gentle soul refused to believe or to answer any demonstration of good-will or affection. But she drew back her hand, and trembled all over. ‘Why are you here, Rebecca?’ she said, still looking at her solemnly with her large eyes. These glances troubled her visitor.
阿米莉亚缩回了手——自从她有生以来，这个温柔的灵魂从未拒绝相信或回应任何善意或感情的表现。但她却缩回了手，浑身颤抖。 “你为什么在这里，丽贝卡？”她说，仍然用她的大眼睛严肃地看着她。这些目光让她的访客感到不安。

‘She must have seen him give me the letter at the ball,’ Rebecca thought. ‘Don’t be agitated, dear Amelia,’ she said, looking down. ‘I came but to see if I could—if you were well.’
“她一定是在舞会上看到他给我这封信的，”丽贝卡想。 “别激动，亲爱的阿米莉亚，”她低着头说道。 “我来只是想看看我是否可以——你是否还好。”

‘Are you well?’ said Amelia. ‘I dare say you are. You don’t love your husband. You would not be here if you did. Tell me, Rebecca, did I ever do you anything but kindness?’
“你还好吗？”阿米莉亚说。 ‘我敢说你是。你不爱你的丈夫。如果你这样做的话，你就不会在这里了。告诉我，丽贝卡，除了仁慈之外，我还对你做过什么吗？

‘Indeed, Amelia, no,’ the other said, still hanging down her head.
“确实，阿米莉亚，不，”另一个人仍然低着头说道。

‘When you were quite poor, who was it that befriended you? Was I not a sister to you? You saw us all in happier days before he married me. I was all in all then to him; or would he have given up his fortune, his family, as he nobly did to make me happy? Why did you come between my love and me? Who sent you to separate those whom God joined, and take my darling’s heart from me—my own husband? Do you think you could I love him as I did? His love was everything to me. You knew it, and wanted to rob me of it. For shame, Rebecca; bad and wicked woman—false friend and false wife.’
‘当你很穷的时候，是谁和你做朋友呢？我不是你的妹妹吗？在他和我结婚之前，你看到我们大家都过着幸福的日子。那时我对他来说就是一切；或者他会放弃他的财产、他的家庭，就像他为了让我幸福而高尚地所做的那样？为什么你要介入我和我的爱人之间？谁派你来分离那些与上帝结合的人，并从我——我自己的丈夫身上夺走我亲爱的心？你觉得你能像我一样爱他吗？他的爱对我来说就是一切。你知道这一点，却想夺走我的东西。真是耻辱，丽贝卡；坏而邪恶的女人——虚假的朋友和虚假的妻子。

‘Amelia, I protest before God, I have done my husband no wrong,’ Rebecca said, turning from her.
“阿米莉亚，我向上帝抗议，我没有冤枉我的丈夫，”丽贝卡说着，转身离开了她。

‘Have you done me no wrong, Rebecca? You did not succeed, but you tried. Ask your heart if you did not.’
“你没有做错我吗，丽贝卡？你没有成功，但你尝试过。如果你没有的话，问问你的心。

She knows nothing, Rebecca thought.
她什么都不知道，丽贝卡想。

‘He came back to me. I knew he would. I knew that no falsehood, no flattery, could keep him from me long. I knew he would come. I prayed so that he should.’
‘他回到了我身边。我知道他会的。我知道任何谎言、任何奉承都不能让他远离我太久。我知道他会来。我祈祷他应该这样做。

The poor girl spoke these words with a spirit and volubility which Rebecca had never before seen in her, and before which the latter was quite dumb. ‘But what have I done to you,’ she continued in a more pitiful tone, ‘that you should try and take him from me? I had him but for six weeks. You might have spared me those, Rebecca. And yet, from the very first day of our wedding, you came and blighted it. Now he is gone, are you come to see how unhappy I am?’ she continued. ‘You made me wretched enough for the past fortnight: you might have spared me to-day.’
这个可怜的女孩说这句话时的神情和滔滔不绝，是丽贝卡以前从未在她身上见过的，而在这之前，丽贝卡简直是哑巴了。 “但是我对你做了什么，”她用更可怜的语气继续说道，“你竟然想把他从我身边夺走？”我和他在一起不过六个星期。丽贝卡，你本可以省去这些的。然而，从我们婚礼的第一天起，你就来破坏它。现在他走了，你是来看看我有多不高兴吗？”她继续说道。 “在过去的两周里，你让我够痛苦的了：你今天也许可以饶过我。”

‘I—I never came here,’ interposed Rebecca, with unlucky truth.
“我——我从来没有来过这里，”丽贝卡插话道，不幸的是，事实是这样的。

‘No. You didn’t come. You took him away. Are you come to fetch him from me?’ she continued in a wilder tone. ‘He was here, but he is gone now. There on that very sofa he sate. Don’t touch it. We sate and talked there. I was on his knee, and my arms were round his neck, and we said ‘Our Father.’ Yes, he was here: and they came and took him away, but he promised me to come back.’
'不。你没有来。你把他带走了。你是来接我的吗？”她用更狂野的语气继续说道。 ‘他曾经在这里，但现在已经走了。他就坐在那张沙发上。不要碰它。我们在那里坐下来聊天。我坐在他的膝盖上，我的手臂搂着他的脖子，我们说‘我们的父亲’。是的，他在这里：他们来把他带走了，但他答应我会回来。

‘He will come back, my dear,’ said Rebecca, touched in spite of herself.
“他会回来的，亲爱的，”丽贝卡不由自主地感动道。

‘Look,’ said Amelia, ‘this is his sash—isn’t it a pretty colour?’ and she took up the fringe and kissed it. She had tied it round her waist at some part of the day. She had forgotten her anger, her jealousy, the very presence of her rival seemingly. For she walked silently and almost with a smile on her face, towards the bed, and began to smooth down George’s pillow.
“看，”阿米莉亚说，“这是他的腰带——颜色不是很漂亮吗？”然后她拿起流苏，吻了一下。一天中的某个时候，她把它系在腰上。她似乎忘记了她的愤怒，她的嫉妒，以及她的对手的存在。因为她默默地、脸上几乎带着微笑走向床边，开始抚平乔治的枕头。

Rebecca walked, too, silently away. ‘How is Amelia?’ asked Jos, who still held his position in the chair.
丽贝卡也默默地走开了。 “阿米莉亚怎么样？”乔斯问道，他仍然坐在椅子上。

‘There should be somebody with her,’ said Rebecca. ‘I think she is very unwell”: and she went away with a very grave face, refusing Mr. Sedley’s entreaties that she would stay and partake of the early dinner which he had ordered.
“应该有人陪着她，”丽贝卡说。 “我觉得她身体很不舒服”：她离开时脸色非常严肃，拒绝了塞德利先生留下来吃他吩咐的早饭的恳求。

Rebecca was of a good-natured and obliging disposition; and she liked Amelia rather than otherwise. Even her hard words, reproachful as they were, were complimentary—the groans of a person stinging under defeat. Meeting Mrs. O’Dowd, whom the Dean’s sermons had by no means comforted, and who was walking very disconsolately in the Parc, Rebecca accosted the latter, rather to the surprise of the Major’s wife, who was not accustomed to such marks of politeness from Mrs. Rawdon Crawley, and informing her that poor little Mrs. Osborne was in a desperate condition, and almost mad with grief, sent off the good-natured Irishwoman straight to see if she could console her young favourite.
丽贝卡性格善良，乐于助人。她更喜欢阿米莉亚。就连她的严厉言辞，虽然带有责备，但也充满了赞美——这是一个人在失败后痛苦的呻吟。见到奥多德夫人时，院长的布道并没有让她感到安慰，她在公园里走得非常沮丧，丽贝卡向奥多德夫人搭话，这让少校的妻子感到惊讶，因为她不习惯这种礼貌。罗登·克劳利夫人发来了信，告诉她可怜的小奥斯本夫人正处于绝望的境地，悲痛得几乎发疯，于是直接打发这位好心的爱尔兰女人去看看她是否能安慰她最喜欢的年轻人。

‘I’ve cares of my own enough,’ Mrs. O’Dowd said, gravely, ‘and I thought poor Amelia would be little wanting for company this day. But if she’s so bad as you say, and you can’t attend to her, who used to be so fond of her, faith I’ll see if I can be of service. And so good marning to ye, Madam”; with which speech and a toss of her head, the lady of the repayther took a farewell of Mrs. Crawley, whose company she by no means courted.
“我已经足够关心自己的事情了，”奥多德夫人严肃地说，“我想可怜的阿米莉亚今天不会缺少陪伴。”但如果她像你说的那么糟糕，而你却无法照顾她，而她曾经那么喜欢她，相信我会看看是否能帮上忙。祝您一切顺利，女士”；报款人的女士说完这句话，摇摇头，就向克劳利夫人告别了，她根本没有讨好克劳利夫人的陪伴。

Becky watched her marching off, with a smile on her lip. She had the keenest sense of humour, and the Parthian look which the retreating Mrs. O’Dowd flung over her shoulder almost upset Mrs. Crawley’s gravity. ‘My service to ye, me fine Madam, and I’m glad to see ye so cheerful,’ thought Peggy. ‘It’s not YOU that will cry your eyes out with grief, anyway.’ And with this she passed on, and speedily found her way to Mrs. Osborne’s lodgings.
贝基看着她大步走开，嘴角挂着微笑。她具有最敏锐的幽默感，奥多德夫人在退后时从肩上甩出的帕提亚式的表情几乎打破了克劳利夫人的严肃态度。 “我为您服务，我的好女士，我很高兴看到您如此高兴，”佩吉想。 “无论如何，不​​会是你伤心得哭出来。”说完，她继续往前走，很快就找到了奥斯本夫人的住处。

The poor soul was still at the bedside, where Rebecca had left her, and stood almost crazy with grief. The Major’s wife, a strongerminded woman, endeavoured her best to comfort her young friend. ‘You must bear up, Amelia, dear,’ she said kindly, ‘for he mustn’t find you ill when he sends for you after the victory. It’s not you are the only woman that are in the hands of God this day.’
这个可怜的灵魂仍然站在丽贝卡离开她的床边，站着，悲伤得几乎发疯。少校的妻子是一位意志坚强的女人，她竭尽全力安慰她年轻的朋友。 “你一定要忍耐，阿米莉亚，亲爱的，”她和蔼地说，“胜利后他派人来找你时，他一定不能发现你生病了。”今天，你并不是唯一一个在上帝手中的女人。

‘I know that. I am very wicked, very weak,’ Amelia said. She knew her own weakness well enough. The presence of the more resolute friend checked it, however; and she was the better of this control and company. They went on till two o’clock; their hearts were with the column as it marched farther and farther away. Dreadful doubt and anguish—prayers and fears and griefs unspeakable—followed the regiment. It was the women’s tribute to the war. It taxes both alike, and takes the blood of the men, and the tears of the women.
'我知道。我很邪恶，很软弱，”阿米莉亚说。她很清楚自己的弱点。然而，更坚定的朋友的出现阻止了这一点。在这种控制和陪伴下，她更胜一筹。他们一直走到两点钟。当纵队行进得越来越远时，他们的心与纵队同在。可怕的怀疑和痛苦——无法形容的祈祷、恐惧和悲伤——跟随了整个团。这是妇女们对战争的致敬。它同样对双方征税，夺走男人的鲜血和女人的泪水。

At half-past two, an event occurred of daily importance to Mr. Joseph: the dinner-hour arrived. Warriors may fight and perish, but he must dine. He came into Amelia’s room to see if he could coax her to share that meal. ‘Try,’ said he; ‘the soup is very good. Do try, Emmy,’ and he kissed her hand. Except when she was married, he had not done so much for years before. ‘You are very good and kind, Joseph,’ she said. ‘Everybody is, but, if you please, I will stay in my room to-day.’
两点半，发生了一件对约瑟夫先生来说每天都很重要的事情：晚餐时间到了。战士可能会战斗并死亡，但他必须吃饭。他走进阿米莉亚的房间，想看看能否哄她一起吃那顿饭。 “试试吧，”他说。 ‘汤很好喝。一定要尝试，艾美，”然后他吻了她的手。除了她结婚的时候，他已经好几年没有做过这么多了。 “你非常善良，约瑟夫，”她说。 “每个人都是，但是，如果你愿意的话，我今天会留在我的房间里。”

The savour of the soup, however, was agreeable to Mrs. O’Dowd’s nostrils: and she thought she would bear Mr. Jos company. So the two sate down to their meal. ‘God bless the meat,’ said the Major’s wife, solemnly: she was thinking of her honest Mick, riding at the head of his regiment: ‘‘Tis but a bad dinner those poor boys will get to-day,’ she said, with a sigh, and then, like a philosopher, fell to.
然而，汤的味道却很合奥多德夫人的鼻孔：她认为她会忍受乔斯先生的陪伴。于是两人坐下来吃饭。 “上帝保佑这顿肉，”少校的妻子庄严地说，她想起了她诚实的米克，骑在他的团的前面：“这只是那些可怜的孩子们今天吃的一顿糟糕的晚餐，”她说，一声叹息，然后，像哲学家一样，跌倒了。

Jos’s spirits rose with his meal. He would drink the regiment’s health; or, indeed, take any other excuse to indulge in a glass of champagne. ‘We’ll drink to O’Dowd and the brave —th,’ said he, bowing gallantly to his guest. ‘Hey, Mrs. O’Dowd? Fill Mrs. O’Dowd’s glass, Isidor.’
乔斯的精神随着这顿饭的到来而振奋起来。他将为全团的健康干杯；或者，事实上，找任何其他借口来喝一杯香槟。 “我们将为奥多德和勇敢的人干杯，”他说道，同时向他的客人英勇地鞠了一躬。 “嘿，奥多德夫人？伊西多，给奥多德夫人倒满一杯。

But all of a sudden, Isidor started, and the Major’s wife laid down her knife and fork. The windows of the room were open, and looked southward, and a dull distant sound came over the sun-lighted roofs from that direction. ‘What is it?’ said Jos. ‘Why don’t you pour, you rascal?’
但突然间，伊西多吃了一惊，少校的妻子放下了刀叉。房间的窗户开着，朝南，远处传来沉闷的声音，从那个方向的阳光照耀的屋顶上传来。 “这是什么？”乔斯说，“你为什么不倒酒呢，你这个流氓？”

‘Cest le feu!’ said Isidor, running to the balcony.
“Cest le feu！”伊西多一边说，一边跑向阳台。

‘God defend us; it’s cannon!’ Mrs. O’Dowd cried, starting up, and followed too to the window. A thousand pale and anxious faces might have been seen looking from other casements. And presently it seemed as if the whole population of the city rushed into the streets.
‘愿上帝保护我们； “是大炮！”奥多德夫人惊叫着，站了起来，也跟着走到了窗边。从其他窗户里可能会看到一千张苍白而焦虑的面孔。不久之后，似乎整个城市的居民都涌上街头。

Chapter XXXII
第三十二章


In Which Jos Takes Flight, and the War Is Brought to a Close
乔斯起飞，战争结束

We of peaceful London City have never beheld—and please God never shall witness—such a scene of hurry and alarm, as that which Brussels presented. Crowds rushed to the Namur gate, from which direction the noise proceeded, and many rode along the level chaussee, to be in advance of any intelligence from the army. Each man asked his neighbour for news; and even great English lords and ladies condescended to speak to persons whom they did not know. The friends of the French went abroad, wild with excitement, and prophesying the triumph of their Emperor. The merchants closed their shops, and came out to swell the general chorus of alarm and clamour. Women rushed to the churches, and crowded the chapels, and knelt and prayed on the flags and steps. The dull sound of the cannon went on rolling, rolling. Presently carriages with travellers began to leave the town, galloping away by the Ghent barrier. The prophecies of the French partisans began to pass for facts. ‘He has cut the armies in two,’ it was said. ‘He is marching straight on Brussels. He will overpower the English, and be here to-night.’ ‘He will overpower the English,’ shrieked Isidor to his master, ‘and will be here to-night.’ The man bounded in and out from the lodgings to the street, always returning with some fresh particulars of disaster. Jos’s face grew paler and paler. Alarm began to take entire possession of the stout civilian. All the champagne he drank brought no courage to him. Before sunset he was worked up to such a pitch of nervousness as gratified his friend Isidor to behold, who now counted surely upon the spoils of the owner of the laced coat.
我们生活在和平的伦敦城从未见过——愿上帝永远也不会见证——布鲁塞尔所呈现的如此匆忙和惊慌的景象。人群涌向那慕尔城门，噪音就是从那个方向传来的，许多人沿着平坦的马车骑行，以便抢在军队传来的任何情报之前。每个人都向邻居询问消息；甚至伟大的英国贵族和贵妇也屈尊与他们不认识的人交谈。法国人的朋友们兴奋地出国，预言他们的皇帝会取得胜利。商人们关门歇业，纷纷出来，引起了一片惊慌和叫嚷。妇女们涌向教堂，挤满教堂，跪在旗帜和台阶上祈祷。沉闷的炮声继续轰鸣、轰鸣。不久，载着旅客的马车开始离开城镇，沿着根特的屏障疾驰而去。法国游击队的预言开始成为事实。据说，“他把军队一分为二”。 “他正径直向布鲁塞尔进军。 “他会打败英国人，”伊西多对他的主人尖叫道，“今晚就会在这里。” 那人从住处跳进跳出，来到街上。 ，总是带着灾难的一些新细节回来。乔斯的脸色越来越苍白。警报开始完全占据了这个粗壮的平民的心。他喝下的所有香槟都没有给他带来勇气。日落之前，他已经达到了如此紧张的程度，这让他的朋友伊西多很高兴，他现在肯定指望着这件花边外套的主人的战利品。

The women were away all this time. After hearing the firing for a moment, the stout Major’s wife bethought her of her friend in the next chamber, and ran in to watch, and if possible to console, Amelia. The idea that she had that helpless and gentle creature to protect, gave additional strength to the natural courage of the honest Irishwoman. She passed five hours by her friend’s side, sometimes in remonstrance, sometimes talking cheerfully, oftener in silence and terrified mental supplication. ‘I never let go her hand once,’ said the stout lady afterwards, ‘until after sunset, when the firing was over.’ Pauline, the bonne, was on her knees at church hard by, praying for son homme a elle.
女人们一直不在。听到枪声片刻后，粗壮的少校的妻子想起了隔壁房间里的朋友，跑进去观看，如果可能的话，安慰一下阿米莉亚。她要保护这个无助而温柔的生物，这一想法给这位诚实的爱尔兰女人天生的勇气增添了额外的力量。她在朋友身边度过了五个小时，有时是在抗议，有时是愉快地交谈，更多时候是沉默和恐惧的心灵恳求。 “我从来没有放开过她的手，”这位身材魁梧的女士事后说道，“直到日落之后，射击结束。”波琳，这位善良的女士，正跪在附近的教堂里，为儿子祈祷。

When the noise of the cannonading was over, Mrs. O’Dowd issued out of Amelia’s room into the parlour adjoining, where Jos sate with two emptied flasks, and courage entirely gone. Once or twice he had ventured into his sister’s bedroom, looking very much alarmed, and as if he would say something. But the Major’s wife kept her place, and he went away without disburthening himself of his speech. He was ashamed to tell her that he wanted to fly.
炮火声结束后，奥多德夫人从阿米莉亚的房间走进隔壁的客厅，乔斯坐在那儿，手里拿着两个空瓶子，勇气完全消失了。有一两次，他冒险闯进妹妹的卧室，看上去非常惊慌，好像要说什么。但少校的妻子保留了她的位置，他没有再发表讲话就离开了。他羞于告诉她他想飞。

But when she made her appearance in the dining-room, where he sate in the twilight in the cheerless company of his empty champagne bottles, he began to open his mind to her.
但当她出现在餐厅里时，他在暮色中坐在空香槟酒瓶的陪伴下，开始向她敞开心扉。

‘Mrs. O’Dowd,’ he said, ‘hadn’t you better get Amelia ready?’
'太太。奥多德，”他说，“你最好让阿米莉亚做好准备吗？

‘Are you going to take her out for a walk?’ said the Major’s lady; ‘sure she’s too weak to stir.’
“你要带她出去散步吗？”少校的夫人说道。 “当然她太虚弱了，无法动弹。”

‘I—I’ve ordered the carriage,’ he said, ‘and—and post-horses; Isidor is gone for them,’ Jos continued.
“我——我已经订好了马车，”他说，“还有——还有邮马；伊西多已经离开了他们，”乔斯继续说道。

‘What do you want with driving to-night?’ answered the lady. ‘Isn’t she better on her bed? I’ve just got her to lie down.’
“你今晚开车想做什么？”那位女士回答道。 “她在床上不是更好吗？我刚刚让她躺下。

‘Get her up,’ said Jos; ‘she must get up, I say”: and he stamped his foot energetically. ‘I say the horses are ordered—yes, the horses are ordered. It’s all over, and—‘
“把她扶起来，”乔斯说。 “我说，她必须站起来。”他用力跺着脚。 ‘我说马匹已被命令——是的，马匹已被命令。一切都结束了，而且——”

‘And what?’ asked Mrs. O’Dowd.
“然后呢？”奥多德夫人问道。

‘I’m off for Ghent,’ Jos answered. ‘Everybody is going; there’s a place for you! We shall start in half-an-hour.’
“我要去根特了，”乔斯回答道。 ‘每个人都要去；总有一个地方适合您！我们半小时后开始。

The Major’s wife looked at him with infinite scorn. ‘I don’t move till O’Dowd gives me the route,’ said she. ‘You may go if you like, Mr. Sedley; but, faith, Amelia and I stop here.’
少校的妻子用无限轻蔑的目光看着他。 “在奥多德给我路线之前我不会动，”她说。 “如果你愿意的话，你可以去，塞德利先生；”但是，我相信，阿米莉亚和我就到此为止了。”

‘She SHALL go,’ said Jos, with another stamp of his foot. Mrs. O’Dowd put herself with arms akimbo before the bedroom door.
“她该走了，”乔斯说，又跺了跺脚。奥多德太太双手叉腰站在卧室门前。

‘Is it her mother you’re going to take her to?’ she said; ‘or do you want to go to Mamma yourself, Mr. Sedley? Good marning—a pleasant journey to ye, sir. Bon voyage, as they say, and take my counsel, and shave off them mustachios, or they’ll bring you into mischief.’
“你要带她去见她的母亲吗？”她说。 “或者你想亲自去找妈妈吗，塞德利先生？祝您旅途愉快，先生。正如他们所说，一路顺风，接受我的建议，剃掉他们的胡子，否则他们会给你带来恶作剧。

‘D—n!’ yelled out Jos, wild with fear, rage, and mortification; and Isidor came in at this juncture, swearing in his turn. ‘Pas de chevaux, sacre bleu!’ hissed out the furious domestic. All the horses were gone. Jos was not the only man in Brussels seized with panic that day.
“该死！”乔斯大声喊道，他的内心充满了恐惧、愤怒和屈辱。就在这个时候，伊西多尔进来了，轮到他宣誓了。 “Pas de chevaux，sacre bleu！”愤怒的家人嘶嘶地说。所有的马都消失了。乔斯并不是布鲁塞尔当天唯一感到恐慌的人。

But Jos’s fears, great and cruel as they were already, were destined to increase to an almost frantic pitch before the night was over. It has been mentioned how Pauline, the bonne, had son homme a elle also in the ranks of the army that had gone out to meet the Emperor Napoleon. This lover was a native of Brussels, and a Belgian hussar. The troops of his nation signalised themselves in this war for anything but courage, and young Van Cutsum, Pauline’s admirer, was too good a soldier to disobey his Colonel’s orders to run away. Whilst in garrison at Brussels young Regulus (he had been born in the revolutionary times) found his great comfort, and passed almost all his leisure moments, in Pauline’s kitchen; and it was with pockets and holsters crammed full of good things from her larder, that he had take leave of his weeping sweetheart, to proceed upon the campaign a few days before.
但乔斯的恐惧，尽管已经如此巨大和残酷，注定会在夜晚结束之前加剧到近乎疯狂的程度。有人提到波琳，这位好心的人，她的儿子 homme a elle 也在出征迎接拿破仑皇帝的军队中。这位情人是布鲁塞尔人，也是一名比利时骠骑兵。他的国家的军队在这场战争中表明自己除了勇气之外什么也没有，而宝琳的仰慕者年轻的范·库特姆（Van Cutsum）是一名优秀的士兵，他不会违背上校的逃跑命令。在布鲁塞尔驻军期间，年轻的雷古勒斯（他出生于革命时期）找到了极大的安慰，并在宝琳的厨房里度过了几乎所有的闲暇时光；几天前，他带着从她的食品储藏室里塞满好东西的口袋和皮套离开了他哭泣的爱人，继续征战。

As far as his regiment was concerned, this campaign was over now. They had formed a part of the division under the command of his Sovereign apparent, the Prince of Orange, and as respected length of swords and mustachios, and the richness of uniform and equipments, Regulus and his comrades looked to be as gallant a body of men as ever trumpet sounded for.
对于他的团来说，这场战役现在已经结束了。他们是该师的一部分，由他的君主奥兰治亲王指挥，雷古勒斯和他的战友们拥有令人尊敬的剑和胡须的长度，以及丰富的制服和装备，看起来就像是一支英勇的队伍。人们的号角一如既往地吹响。

When Ney dashed upon the advance of the allied troops, carrying one position after the other, until the arrival of the great body of the British army from Brussels changed the aspect of the combat of Quatre Bras, the squadrons among which Regulus rode showed the greatest activity in retreating before the French, and were dislodged from one post and another which they occupied with perfect alacrity on their part. Their movements were only checked by the advance of the British in their rear. Thus forced to halt, the enemy’s cavalry (whose bloodthirsty obstinacy cannot be too severely reprehended) had at length an opportunity of coming to close quarters with the brave Belgians before them; who preferred to encounter the British rather than the French, and at once turning tail rode through the English regiments that were behind them, and scattered in all directions. The regiment in fact did not exist any more. It was nowhere. It had no head-quarters. Regulus found himself galloping many miles from the field of action, entirely alone; and whither should he fly for refuge so naturally as to that kitchen and those faithful arms in which Pauline had so often welcomed him?
当内伊冲向盟军的前进时，一个接一个地占领阵地，直到来自布鲁塞尔的英国军队大部队的到来改变了四布拉斯的战斗面貌，雷古勒斯所在的中队表现出了最伟大的表现。他们在法军面前撤退，并被他们从一个又一个的岗位上赶了出来，而他们却迅速占领了这些岗位。他们的行动只受到后方英军推进的阻碍。敌人的骑兵（其嗜血的顽固无论如何都不能太严厉地谴责）被迫停下来，终于有机会与前面勇敢的比利时人近距离接触。他们宁愿遭遇英国人，也不愿遭遇法国人，立刻掉头穿过身后的英国军团，四散奔逃。事实上，该团已不复存在。它无处可去。它没有总部。雷古勒斯发现自己正在距离战场数英里之外，孤身一人。他应该飞到哪里去避难，而不是去那个厨房和波琳经常欢迎他的那些忠实的手臂呢？

At some ten o’clock the clinking of a sabre might have been heard up the stair of the house where the Osbornes occupied a story in the continental fashion. A knock might have been heard at the kitchen door; and poor Pauline, come back from church, fainted almost with terror as she opened it and saw before her her haggard hussar. He looked as pale as the midnight dragoon who came to disturb Leonora. Pauline would have screamed, but that her cry would have called her masters, and discovered her friend. She stifled her scream, then, and leading her hero into the kitchen, gave him beer, and the choice bits from the dinner, which Jos had not had the heart to taste. The hussar showed he was no ghost by the prodigious quantity of flesh and beer which he devoured—and during the mouthfuls he told his tale of disaster.
大约十点钟，奥斯本一家按照欧陆式风格占据了一个楼层，楼梯上可能会听到军刀的叮当声。厨房的门可能有人敲门。可怜的波琳从教堂回来，打开门，看到面前是憔悴的骠骑兵，她几乎吓得晕了过去。他的脸色苍白得像午夜来打扰利奥诺拉的龙骑兵。宝琳一定会尖叫起来，但她的哭声会召唤她的主人，并发现她的朋友。然后她忍住了尖叫，领着她的英雄走进厨房，给了他啤酒和晚餐中的精选食物，乔斯不忍心尝。骠骑兵吞下的肉和啤酒数量惊人，这表明他不是鬼魂——在吃的过程中，他讲述了他的灾难故事。

His regiment had performed prodigies of courage, and had withstood for a while the onset of the whole French army. But they were overwhelmed at last, as was the whole British army by this time. Ney destroyed each regiment as it came up. The Belgians in vain interposed to prevent the butchery of the English. The Brunswickers were routed and had fled—their Duke was killed. It was a general debacle. He sought to drown his sorrow for the defeat in floods of beer.
他的军团表现出了惊人的勇气，并在一段时间内抵挡住了法军全军的进攻。但他们最终被压垮了，整个英国军队也被压垮了。内伊摧毁了每一个出现的军团。比利时人徒劳地阻止了英国人的屠杀。不伦瑞克人被击溃并逃跑——他们的公爵被杀。这是一场普遍的失败。他试图用大量啤酒来浇灭对失败的悲伤。

Isidor, who had come into the kitchen, heard the conversation and rushed out to inform his master. ‘It is all over,’ he shrieked to Jos. ‘Milor Duke is a prisoner; the Duke of Brunswick is killed; the British army is in full flight; there is only one man escaped, and he is in the kitchen now—come and hear him.’ So Jos tottered into that apartment where Regulus still sate on the kitchen table, and clung fast to his flagon of beer. In the best French which he could muster, and which was in sooth of a very ungrammatical sort, Jos besought the hussar to tell his tale. The disasters deepened as Regulus spoke. He was the only man of his regiment not slain on the field. He had seen the Duke of Brunswick fall, the black hussars fly, the Ecossais pounded down by the cannon. ‘And the —th?’ gasped Jos.
走进厨房的伊西多听到了谈话声，冲出去通知他的主人。 “一切都结束了，”他对乔斯尖叫道。不伦瑞克公爵被杀；英国军队正在全力逃跑； “只有一个人逃脱了，他现在在厨房里——过来听他说。”于是乔斯摇摇晃晃地走进那间公寓，雷古勒斯仍然坐在厨房的桌子上，紧紧抓住他的啤酒壶。乔斯用他能掌握的最好的法语，恳求骠骑兵讲述​​他的故事，但语气却很不合语法。随着雷古勒斯的讲话，灾难进一步加深。他是他的团中唯一没有在战场上阵亡的人。他亲眼目睹了布伦瑞克公爵倒下、黑色骠骑兵飞走、埃科赛人被大炮轰倒。 “那——第一个？”乔斯喘着气说。

‘Cut in pieces,’ said the hussar—upon which Pauline cried out, ‘O my mistress, ma bonne petite dame,’ went off fairly into hysterics, and filled the house with her screams.
“切成碎片，”骠骑兵说道，宝琳听到这句话后大声喊道，“哦，我的女主人，我亲爱的小贵妇。”她变得歇斯底里，屋子里充满了她的尖叫声。

Wild with terror, Mr. Sedley knew not how or where to seek for safety. He rushed from the kitchen back to the sitting-room, and cast an appealing look at Amelia’s door, which Mrs. O’Dowd had closed and locked in his face; but he remembered how scornfully the latter had received him, and after pausing and listening for a brief space at the door, he left it, and resolved to go into the street, for the first time that day. So, seizing a candle, he looked about for his gold-laced cap, and found it lying in its usual place, on a console-table, in the anteroom, placed before a mirror at which Jos used to coquet, always giving his side-locks a twirl, and his cap the proper cock over his eye, before he went forth to make appearance in public. Such is the force of habit, that even in the midst of his terror he began mechanically to twiddle with his hair, and arrange the cock of his hat. Then he looked amazed at the pale face in the glass before him, and especially at his mustachios, which had attained a rich growth in the course of near seven weeks, since they had come into the world. They WILL mistake me for a military man, thought he, remembering Isidor’s warning as to the massacre with which all the defeated British army was threatened; and staggering back to his bedchamber, he began wildly pulling the bell which summoned his valet.
塞德利先生惊恐万状，不知道如何或去哪里寻求安全。他从厨房冲回起居室，用恳求的目光看了看阿米莉亚的门，奥多德夫人已经把门关上，当着他的面锁上。但他记得后者是多么轻蔑地接待了他，在门口停下来听了一会儿之后，他离开了，决定走到街上，这是那天的第一次。于是，他抓起一支蜡烛，四处寻找他的镶金帽子，发现它就放在原来的地方，在前厅的玄关桌上，放在一面镜子前，乔斯常常对着镜子卖弄风情，总是让出自己的一侧。在他公开露面之前，他旋转了一下，帽子盖住了他的眼睛。这就是习惯的力量，即使在恐惧之中，他也开始机械地拨弄头发，整理帽子的公鸡。然后他惊讶地看着面前镜子里那张苍白的脸，尤其是他的小胡子，自从来到这个世界以来，在近七周的时间里，小胡子已经长得茂盛了。他们会把我误认为是军人，他想，想起了伊西多关于所有战败的英国军队都受到屠杀威胁的警告；他摇摇晃晃地回到自己的卧室，开始疯狂地拉铃，召唤他的男仆。

Isidor answered that summons. Jos had sunk in a chair—he had torn off his neckcloths, and turned down his collars, and was sitting with both his hands lifted to his throat.
伊西多响应了召唤。乔斯瘫坐在椅子上——他扯掉了领巾，把衣领翻了下来，双手举到喉咙处坐着。

‘Coupez-moi, Isidor,’ shouted he; ‘vite! Coupez-moi!’
“Coupez-moi，伊西多尔，”他喊道。 ‘请！库佩兹我！’

Isidor thought for a moment he had gone mad, and that he wished his valet to cut his throat.
伊西多有一瞬间以为自己疯了，他希望他的男仆割断他的喉咙。

‘Les moustaches,’ gasped Joe; ‘les moustaches—coupy, rasy, vite!’— his French was of this sort—voluble, as we have said, but not remarkable for grammar.
“小胡子，”乔喘着气说。 “les moustache——coupy、rasy、vite！”——他的法语就是这样的——正如我们所说，滔滔不绝，但语法并不出色。

Isidor swept off the mustachios in no time with the razor, and heard with inexpressible delight his master’s orders that he should fetch a hat and a plain coat. ‘Ne porty ploo—habit militair—bonn—bonny a voo, prenny dehors’—were Jos’s words—the coat and cap were at last his property.
伊西多尔立刻用剃刀刮掉了胡子，听到主人命令他去拿一顶帽子和一件便衣，他高兴极了。 “Ne porty ploo——habit militair——bonn——bonny a voo, prenny dehors”——是乔斯的话——这件外套和帽子终于是他的财产了。

This gift being made, Jos selected a plain black coat and waistcoat from his stock, and put on a large white neckcloth, and a plain beaver. If he could have got a shovel hat he would have worn it. As it was, you would have fancied he was a flourishing, large parson of the Church of England.
在制作这份礼物时，乔斯从他的库存中挑选了一件纯黑色外套和马甲，并戴上了一条白色大领巾和一条纯色海狸皮。如果他能得到一顶铲子帽，他一定会戴上它。事实上，你可能会认为他是英国国教会一位事业蒸蒸日上的大牧师。

‘Venny maintenong,’ he continued, ‘sweevy—ally—party—dong la roo.’ And so having said, he plunged swiftly down the stairs of the house, and passed into the street.
“Venny maintenong，”他继续说道，“sweevy——盟友——party——dong la roo。”说完，他迅速冲下房子的楼梯，走进街道。

Although Regulus had vowed that he was the only man of his regiment or of the allied army, almost, who had escaped being cut to pieces by Ney, it appeared that his statement was incorrect, and that a good number more of the supposed victims had survived the massacre. Many scores of Regulus’s comrades had found their way back to Brussels, and all agreeing that they had run away—filled the whole town with an idea of the defeat of the allies. The arrival of the French was expected hourly; the panic continued, and preparations for flight went on everywhere. No horses! thought Jos, in terror. He made Isidor inquire of scores of persons, whether they had any to lend or sell, and his heart sank within him, at the negative answers returned everywhere. Should he take the journey on foot? Even fear could not render that ponderous body so active.
尽管雷古勒斯发誓说他是他的团或盟军中几乎唯一逃脱被奈伊砍成碎片的人，但看来他的说法是不正确的，而且还有很多所谓的受害者在大屠杀中幸存下来。雷古勒斯的许多战友都找到了返回布鲁塞尔的路，而且所有人都同意他们已经逃跑了——整个城镇都充满了盟军失败的想法。预计法国人每小时都会抵达；恐慌仍在继续，各地都在做好逃跑的准备。没有马！乔斯惊恐地想。他让伊西多询问了几十个人，是否有可以出借或出售的人，看到到处都是否定的答案，他的心沉了下去。他应该步行吗？即便是恐惧，也无法让那沉重的身体变得如此活跃。

Almost all the hotels occupied by the English in Brussels face the Parc, and Jos wandered irresolutely about in this quarter, with crowds of other people, oppressed as he was by fear and curiosity. Some families he saw more happy than himself, having discovered a team of horses, and rattling through the streets in retreat; others again there were whose case was like his own, and who could not for any bribes or entreaties procure the necessary means of flight. Amongst these would-be fugitives, Jos remarked the Lady Bareacres and her daughter, who sate in their carriage in the porte-cochere of their hotel, all their imperials packed, and the only drawback to whose flight was the same want of motive power which kept Jos stationary.
布鲁塞尔几乎所有英国人住的旅馆都面向公园，乔斯在这个街区里犹豫不决地徘徊，周围挤满了人，恐惧和好奇压垮了他。他看到有些家庭比他自己更幸福，他们发现了一队马，在街道上嘎嘎作响地撤退。还有其他人的情况与他的情况相似，他们无法通过任何贿赂或恳求获得必要的逃亡手段。乔斯说，在这些潜在的逃亡者中，巴里亚克斯夫人和她的女儿坐在酒店门廊的马车里，他们的所有帝国都装满了，他们逃亡的唯一缺点是同样缺乏动力。让乔斯保持静止。

Rebecca Crawley occupied apartments in this hotel; and had before this period had sundry hostile meetings with the ladies of the Bareacres family. My Lady Bareacres cut Mrs. Crawley on the stairs when they met by chance; and in all places where the latter’s name was mentioned, spoke perseveringly ill of her neighbour. The Countess was shocked at the familiarity of General Tufto with the aide-de-camp’s wife. The Lady Blanche avoided her as if she had been an infectious disease. Only the Earl himself kept up a sly occasional acquaintance with her, when out of the jurisdiction of his ladies.
丽贝卡·克劳利 (Rebecca Crawley) 住在这家酒店的公寓里；在此之前，他曾与巴里亚克斯家族的女士们进行过各种充满敌意的会面。当克劳利夫人偶然遇见时，巴雷埃克斯夫人在楼梯上撞到了克劳利夫人。在所有提到后者名字的地方，她都不断地说她邻居的坏话。伯爵夫人对塔夫托将军与副官夫人如此熟悉感到震惊。布兰奇夫人避开她，就好像她是一种传染病一样。只有伯爵本人在不受他的女士们管辖时，偶尔会偷偷地与她保持联系。

Rebecca had her revenge now upon these insolent enemies. If became known in the hotel that Captain Crawley’s horses had been left behind, and when the panic began, Lady Bareacres condescended to send her maid to the Captain’s wife with her Ladyship’s compliments, and a desire to know the price of Mrs. Crawley’s horses. Mrs. Crawley returned a note with her compliments, and an intimation that it was not her custom to transact bargains with ladies’ maids.
丽贝卡现在要向这些无礼的敌人报仇了。如果在旅馆里得知克劳利船长的马被落在后面，当恐慌开始时，巴里亚克斯夫人屈尊派她的女仆去见船长的妻子，向船长的夫人致意，并希望知道克劳利夫人的马匹的价格。克劳利夫人回了一张纸条，表达了她的赞美，并暗示她没有与女佣讨价还价的习惯。

This curt reply brought the Earl in person to Becky’s apartment; but he could get no more success than the first ambassador. ‘Send a lady’s maid to ME!’ Mrs. Crawley cried in great anger; ‘why didn’t my Lady Bareacres tell me to go and saddle the horses! Is it her Ladyship that wants to escape, or her Ladyship’s femme de chambre?’ And this was all the answer that the Earl bore back to his Countess.
这个简短的答复将伯爵亲自带到了贝基的公寓。但他所取得的成功并不比第一任大使更大。 “派一位女士的女仆来见我！”克劳利夫人非常愤怒地喊道。 “为什么我的巴里亚克斯夫人不叫我去给马备鞍！”是夫人想逃，还是夫人的宫女想逃？”这就是伯爵向伯爵夫人回覆的全部答案。

What will not necessity do? The Countess herself actually came to wait upon Mrs. Crawley on the failure of her second envoy. She entreated her to name her own price; she even offered to invite Becky to Bareacres House, if the latter would but give her the means of returning to that residence. Mrs. Crawley sneered at her.
什么是不必要的？伯爵夫人亲自前来侍候克劳利夫人，因为她的第二个特使失败了。她恳求她自己报出价格；她甚至提出邀请贝基去巴里埃克斯宅邸，只要后者愿意给她返回那处住所的方法。克劳利夫人对她冷笑。

‘I don’t want to be waited on by bailiffs in livery,’ she said; ‘you will never get back though most probably—at least not you and your diamonds together. The French will have those They will be here in two hours, and I shall be half way to Ghent by that time. I would not sell you my horses, no, not for the two largest diamonds that your Ladyship wore at the ball.’ Lady Bareacres trembled with rage and terror. The diamonds were sewed into her habit, and secreted in my Lord’s padding and boots. ‘Woman, the diamonds are at the banker’s, and I WILL have the horses,’ she said. Rebecca laughed in her face. The infuriate Countess went below, and sate in her carriage; her maid, her courier, and her husband were sent once more through the town, each to look for cattle; and woe betide those who came last! Her Ladyship was resolved on departing the very instant the horses arrived from any quarter—with her husband or without him.
“我不想被穿着制服的法警伺候，”她说； “尽管很可能你永远不会回来了——至少你和你的钻石不会在一起。”法国人将会得到那些他们将在两个小时内到达，那时我将到达根特的一半路程。我不会把我的马卖给你，不，不会为了贵夫人在舞会上佩戴的两颗最大的钻石。”巴里亚克斯夫人因愤怒和恐惧而浑身发抖。钻石被缝在她的长袍上，并藏在我主的衬垫和靴子里。 “女人，钻石在银行家那里，我会拥有马匹，”她说。丽贝卡当面大笑。愤怒的伯爵夫人下了楼，坐在她的马车里。她的女仆、信使和丈夫再次被派到城里去寻找牛群。最后来的人有祸了！夫人决定在马匹从任何地方到达时立即出发——无论是带着她的丈夫还是不带他。

Rebecca had the pleasure of seeing her Ladyship in the horseless carriage, and keeping her eyes fixed upon her, and bewailing, in the loudest tone of voice, the Countess’s perplexities. ‘Not to be able to get horses!’ she said, ‘and to have all those diamonds sewed into the carriage cushions! What a prize it will be for the French when they come!—the carriage and the diamonds, I mean; not the lady!’ She gave this information to the landlord, to the servants, to the guests, and the innumerable stragglers about the courtyard. Lady Bareacres could have shot her from the carriage window.
丽贝卡很高兴看到伯爵夫人坐在没有马的马车上，她的眼睛一直盯着她，用最大的声音哀叹伯爵夫人的困惑。 “买不到马！”她说，“而且把所有这些钻石都缝在马车垫子上！”当法国人来的时候，这将是多么大的奖赏啊！——我是说，马车和钻石；不是那位女士！”她把这个信息告诉了房东、仆人、客人，以及院子里无数的流浪者。巴里亚克斯女士本可以从马车窗户射杀她。

It was while enjoying the humiliation of her enemy that Rebecca caught sight of Jos, who made towards her directly he perceived her.
就在享受敌人羞辱的时候，丽贝卡看到了乔斯，乔斯直接看到了她。

That altered, frightened, fat face, told his secret well enough. He too wanted to fly, and was on the look-out for the means of escape. ‘HE shall buy my horses,’ thought Rebecca, ‘and I’ll ride the mare.’
那张改变了的、受惊的、肥胖的脸已经很好地说明了他的秘密。他也想飞，并且正在寻找逃跑的方法。 “他会买我的马，”丽贝卡想，“我会骑这匹母马。”

Jos walked up to his friend, and put the question for the hundredth time during the past hour, ‘Did she know where horses were to be had?’
乔斯走到他的朋友面前，在过去的一个小时里第一百次问了这个问题：“她知道哪里有马吗？”

‘What, YOU fly?’ said Rebecca, with a laugh. ‘I thought you were the champion of all the ladies, Mr. Sedley.’
“什么，你会飞？”丽贝卡笑着说。 “我以为你是所有女士中的冠军，塞德利先生。”

‘I—I’m not a military man,’ gasped he.
“我——我不是军人，”他喘着气说。

‘And Amelia?—Who is to protect that poor little sister of yours?’ asked Rebecca. ‘You surely would not desert her?’
“那阿米莉亚呢？——谁来保护你那个可怜的妹妹？”丽贝卡问道。 “你肯定不会抛弃她吧？”

‘What good can I do her, suppose—suppose the enemy arrive?’ Jos answered. ‘They’ll spare the women; but my man tells me that they have taken an oath to give no quarter to the men—the dastardly cowards.’
“假设——假设敌人来了，我能为她带来什么好处呢？”乔斯回答道。 “他们会饶过女人；但我的人告诉我，他们已经发誓不会宽恕这些卑鄙的懦夫。

‘Horrid!’ cried Rebecca, enjoying his perplexity.
“太可怕了！”丽贝卡大声说道，享受着他的困惑。

‘Besides, I don’t want to desert her,’ cried the brother. ‘She SHAN’T be deserted. There is a seat for her in my carriage, and one for you, dear Mrs. Crawley, if you will come; and if we can get horses—‘ sighed he—
“此外，我不想抛弃她，”弟弟哭道。 “她不会被遗弃。”我的马车上有一个她的座位，亲爱的克劳利夫人，如果您愿意来的话，也有一个给您的座位。如果我们能弄到马——”他叹了口气——

‘I have two to sell,’ the lady said. Jos could have flung himself into her arms at the news. ‘Get the carriage, Isidor,’ he cried; ‘we’ve found them—we have found them.’
“我有两个要卖，”那位女士说。听到这个消息，乔斯真想扑进她的怀里。 “把马车拿来，伊西多，”他喊道。 “我们找到了他们——我们找到了他们。”

My horses never were in harness,’ added the lady. ‘Bullfinch would kick the carriage to pieces, if you put him in the traces.’
我的马从来没有套过挽具，”这位女士补充道。 “如果你把他放在轨道上，红腹灰雀会把马车踢成碎片。”

‘But he is quiet to ride?’ asked the civilian.
“但是他骑起来很安静吗？”平民问道。

‘As quiet as a lamb, and as fast as a hare,’ answered Rebecca.
“像羔羊一样安静，像野兔一样快，”丽贝卡回答道。

‘Do you think he is up to my weight?’ Jos said. He was already on his back, in imagination, without ever so much as a thought for poor Amelia. What person who loved a horse-speculation could resist such a temptation?
“你认为他能达到我的体重吗？”乔斯说。他已经仰面躺着，沉浸在想象中，根本没有想到可怜的阿米莉亚。哪个热爱投机的人能抵挡得住这样的诱惑呢？

In reply, Rebecca asked him to come into her room, whither he followed her quite breathless to conclude the bargain. Jos seldom spent a half-hour in his life which cost him so much money. Rebecca, measuring the value of the goods which she had for sale by Jos’s eagerness to purchase, as well as by the scarcity of the article, put upon her horses a price so prodigious as to make even the civilian draw back. ‘She would sell both or neither,’ she said, resolutely. Rawdon had ordered her not to part with them for a price less than that which she specified. Lord Bareacres below would give her the same money—and with all her love and regard for the Sedley family, her dear Mr. Joseph must conceive that poor people must live—nobody, in a word, could be more affectionate, but more firm about the matter of business.
作为答复，丽贝卡请他进入她的房间，他气喘吁吁地跟着她完成了这笔交易。乔斯一生中很少花半个小时，这让他花了很多钱。丽贝卡根据乔斯的购买欲和物品的稀缺性，衡量了她出售的商品的价值，给她的马开出了一个天价，以至于连平民都望而却步。 “她要么都卖掉，要么都不卖，”她坚决地说。罗登命令她不得以低于她指定价格的价格出售它们。下面的巴里亚克斯勋爵也会给她同样的钱——尽管她对塞德利一家充满了爱和尊重，她亲爱的约瑟夫先生一定会想到穷人必须生活——总之，没有人能比她更热情、更坚定了。生意的事。

Jos ended by agreeing, as might be supposed of him. The sum he had to give her was so large that he was obliged to ask for time; so large as to be a little fortune to Rebecca, who rapidly calculated that with this sum, and the sale of the residue of Rawdon’s effects, and her pension as a widow should he fall, she would now be absolutely independent of the world, and might look her weeds steadily in the face.
乔斯最后同意了，正如人们对他的看法一样。他必须给她的金额是如此之大，以至于他不得不请求时间。这笔钱对丽贝卡来说是一笔不小的财富，她很快计算出，有了这笔钱，再加上罗登的剩余财产的变卖，以及她作为寡妇的养老金（如果他倒下），她现在将完全独立于世界，并且可能会直视她的脸。

Once or twice in the day she certainly had herself thought about flying. But her reason gave her better counsel. ‘Suppose the French do come,’ thought Becky, ‘what can they do to a poor officer’s widow? Bah! the times of sacks and sieges are over. We shall be let to go home quietly, or I may live pleasantly abroad with a snug little income.’
一天中有一两次她自己确实想到了飞行。但她的理性给了她更好的建议。 “如果法国人真的来了，”贝基想，“他们能对一个可怜军官的遗孀做什么呢？呸!劫掠和围攻的时代已经结束。我们将被允许安静地回家，否则我可能会在国外过着舒适的生活，收入微薄。

Meanwhile Jos and Isidor went off to the stables to inspect the newly purchased cattle. Jos bade his man saddle the horses at once. He would ride away that very night, that very hour. And he left the valet busy in getting the horses ready, and went homewards himself to prepare for his departure. It must be secret. He would go to his chamber by the back entrance. He did not care to face Mrs. O’Dowd and Amelia, and own to them that he was about to run.
与此同时，乔斯和伊西多去马厩检查新买的牛。乔斯命令他的人立即给马备鞍。他会在那天晚上、那个时刻骑马离开。他让仆人忙着准备马匹，自己回家准备出发。这一定是秘密。他会从后门进入他的房间。他不愿意面对奥多德夫人和阿米莉亚，也不愿意向她们承认他要竞选。

By the time Jos’s bargain with Rebecca was completed, and his horses had been visited and examined, it was almost morning once more. But though midnight was long passed, there was no rest for the city; the people were up, the lights in the houses flamed, crowds were still about the doors, and the streets were busy. Rumours of various natures went still from mouth to mouth: one report averred that the Prussians had been utterly defeated; another that it was the English who had been attacked and conquered: a third that the latter had held their ground. This last rumour gradually got strength. No Frenchmen had made their appearance. Stragglers had come in from the army bringing reports more and more favourable: at last an aide-de-camp actually reached Brussels with despatches for the Commandant of the place, who placarded presently through the town an official announcement of the success of the allies at Quatre Bras, and the entire repulse of the French under Ney after a six hours’ battle. The aide-de-camp must have arrived sometime while Jos and Rebecca were making their bargain together, or the latter was inspecting his purchase. When he reached his own hotel, he found a score of its numerous inhabitants on the threshold discoursing of the news; there was no doubt as to its truth. And he went up to communicate it to the ladies under his charge. He did not think it was necessary to tell them how he had intended to take leave of them, how he had bought horses, and what a price he had paid for them.
当乔斯与丽贝卡的讨价还价完成，他的马匹也被参观和检查时，时间又快到早上了。尽管午夜已经过去很久，这座城市却没有休息。人们都起来了，房子里的灯亮了，门外仍然有人群，街道上很忙碌。各种各样的谣言仍然在人们的口中流传：一份报告断言普鲁士人已经彻底失败；一份报告声称普鲁士人已经彻底失败；一份报告声称普鲁士人已经被彻底击败；一份报告声称普鲁士人已经被彻底击败；一份报告声称普鲁士人已经被彻底击败；一份报告声称普鲁士人已经被彻底击败；一份报告声称普鲁士人已经被彻底击败；一份报告声称普鲁士人已经被彻底击败；一份报告声称普鲁士人已经被彻底击败；另一种说法是英国人遭到攻击并被征服；第三种说法是英国人坚守阵地。这最后的谣言逐渐得到了证实。没有法国人出现。掉队者从军队回来，带来了越来越有利的报告：最后，一名副官实际上到达了布鲁塞尔，为该地区的指挥官带来了信件，后者立即在整个城镇中张贴了正式公告，宣布盟军在四布拉斯，以及内伊领导下的法军经过六个小时的战斗后被彻底击退。副官一定是在乔斯和丽贝卡一起讨价还价的时候到达的，或者是后者正在检查他购买的东西。当他到达自己的旅馆时，他发现旅馆里有很多居民在门口谈论着这个消息。其真实性是毫无疑问的。他上前将此事传达给他手下的女士们。他认为没有必要告诉他们他打算如何告别他们，他如何购买马匹，以及他为这些马付出了多少代价。

But success or defeat was a minor matter to them, who had only thought for the safety of those they loved. Amelia, at the news of the victory, became still more agitated even than before. She was for going that moment to the army. She besought her brother with tears to conduct her thither. Her doubts and terrors reached their paroxysm; and the poor girl, who for many hours had been plunged into stupor, raved and ran hither and thither in hysteric insanity— a piteous sight. No man writhing in pain on the hard-fought field fifteen miles off, where lay, after their struggles, so many of the brave—no man suffered more keenly than this poor harmless victim of the war. Jos could not bear the sight of her pain. He left his sister in the charge of her stouter female companion, and descended once more to the threshold of the hotel, where everybody still lingered, and talked, and waited for more news.
但成败对他们来说都是小事，他们只想着自己所爱之人的安全。阿米莉亚听到胜利的消息，比之前更加激动。那一刻她准备去参军。她流着泪恳求哥哥带她去那里。她的怀疑和恐惧达到了极点。这个可怜的女孩已经陷入昏迷了好几个小时，她胡言乱语，歇斯底里地疯狂地跑来跑去——真是可怜的景象。没有人在十五英里外的艰苦战斗的战场上痛苦地翻滚，那里躺着许多勇敢的人——没有人比这个可怜的、无害的战争受害者遭受的痛苦更严重。乔斯无法忍受看到她的痛苦。他把他的妹妹留给了她更壮实的女同伴照顾，然后再次下到旅馆门口，每个人仍然在那里徘徊，交谈，等待更多消息。

It grew to be broad daylight as they stood here, and fresh news began to arrive from the war, brought by men who had been actors in the scene. Wagons and long country carts laden with wounded came rolling into the town; ghastly groans came from within them, and haggard faces looked up sadly from out of the straw. Jos Sedley was looking at one of these carriages with a painful curiosity—the moans of the people within were frightful—the wearied horses could hardly pull the cart. ‘Stop! stop!’ a feeble voice cried from the straw, and the carriage stopped opposite Mr. Sedley’s hotel.
当他们站在这里时，天已经大白天了，来自战争的新消息开始从现场的演员们带来。满载伤员的马车和乡村长车滚滚进城。里面传来可怕的呻吟声，枯萎的脸从稻草中悲伤地抬起头来。乔斯·塞德利怀着痛苦的好奇心看着其中一辆马车——里面的人发出可怕的呻吟声——疲倦的马几乎拉不动车了。 '停止！站住！”稻草里传来一声微弱的喊声，马车停在了塞德利先生住的旅馆对面。

‘It is George, I know it is!’ cried Amelia, rushing in a moment to the balcony, with a pallid face and loose flowing hair. It was not George, however, but it was the next best thing: it was news of him.
“是乔治，我知道是！”阿米莉亚喊道，她立刻冲到阳台上，脸色苍白，头发蓬松飘逸。然而，这不是乔治，但这是第二好的事情：这是他的消息。

It was poor Tom Stubble, who had marched out of Brussels so gallantly twenty-four hours before, bearing the colours of the regiment, which he had defended very gallantly upon the field. A French lancer had speared the young ensign in the leg, who fell, still bravely holding to his flag. At the conclusion of the engagement, a place had been found for the poor boy in a cart, and he had been brought back to Brussels.
那是可怜的汤姆·斯塔布尔，二十四小时前，他带着军团的旗帜，英勇地从布鲁塞尔出发，他在战场上非常英勇地保卫了这个军团。一名法国枪骑兵用矛刺中了年轻少尉的腿，少尉倒下了，但仍勇敢地握着自己的旗帜。订婚结束后，人们在一辆马车上为这个可怜的男孩找到了一个地方，并把他带回了布鲁塞尔。

‘Mr. Sedley, Mr. Sedley!’ cried the boy, faintly, and Jos came up almost frightened at the appeal. He had not at first distinguished who it was that called him.
'先生。塞德利，塞德利先生！”男孩微弱地喊道，乔斯几乎被这声呼唤吓坏了。起初他并没有分辨出是谁给他打电话。

Little Tom Stubble held out his hot and feeble hand. ‘I’m to be taken in here,’ he said. ‘Osborne—and—and Dobbin said I was; and you are to give the man two napoleons: my mother will pay you.’ This young fellow’s thoughts, during the long feverish hours passed in the cart, had been wandering to his father’s parsonage which he had quitted only a few months before, and he had sometimes forgotten his pain in that delirium.
小汤姆·斯塔布尔伸出了他那双又热又无力的手。 “我要被带到这里，”他说。 “奥斯本——还有——多宾说我是；你要给这个人两个拿破仑：我母亲会付钱给你的。”在马车上度过的漫长的发烧时间里，这个年轻人的思绪一直徘徊在他父亲的牧师住所，那里是他几个月前才离开的。有时他会在精神错乱中忘记自己的痛苦。

The hotel was large, and the people kind, and all the inmates of the cart were taken in and placed on various couches. The young ensign was conveyed upstairs to Osborne’s quarters. Amelia and the Major’s wife had rushed down to him, when the latter had recognised him from the balcony. You may fancy the feelings of these women when they were told that the day was over, and both their husbands were safe; in what mute rapture Amelia fell on her good friend’s neck, and embraced her; in what a grateful passion of prayer she fell on her knees, and thanked the Power which had saved her husband.
酒店很大，人也很友善​​，车上的人都被收了进去，安置在各种沙发上。年轻的少尉被带到楼上奥斯本的住处。当少校在阳台上认出他时，阿米莉亚和少校的妻子冲到了他身边。你可能会想象这些妇女在被告知这一天已经结束、她们的丈夫都安全了时的感受。阿米莉亚欣喜若狂地伏在她好朋友的脖子上，拥抱了她。她满怀感激地跪下祈祷，感谢拯救了她丈夫的力量。

Our young lady, in her fevered and nervous condition, could have had no more salutary medicine prescribed for her by any physician than that which chance put in her way. She and Mrs. O’Dowd watched incessantly by the wounded lad, whose pains were very severe, and in the duty thus forced upon her, Amelia had not time to brood over her personal anxieties, or to give herself up to her own fears and forebodings after her wont. The young patient told in his simple fashion the events of the day, and the actions of our friends of the gallant —th. They had suffered severely. They had lost very many officers and men. The Major’s horse had been shot under him as the regiment charged, and they all thought that O’Dowd was gone, and that Dobbin had got his majority, until on their return from the charge to their old ground, the Major was discovered seated on Pyramus’s carcase, refreshing him-self from a case-bottle. It was Captain Osborne that cut down the French lancer who had speared the ensign. Amelia turned so pale at the notion, that Mrs. O’Dowd stopped the young ensign in this story. And it was Captain Dobbin who at the end of the day, though wounded himself, took up the lad in his arms and carried him to the surgeon, and thence to the cart which was to bring him back to Brussels. And it was he who promised the driver two louis if he would make his way to Mr. Sedley’s hotel in the city; and tell Mrs. Captain Osborne that the action was over, and that her husband was unhurt and well.
我们的年轻女士，在发烧和紧张的情况下，任何医生都无法为她开出比偶然为她提供的更有益的药物。她和奥多德夫人不断地看着受伤的小伙子，他的痛苦非常严重，在这样强加给她的责任中，阿米莉亚没有时间去思考她个人的焦虑，或者让自己屈服于自己的恐惧和恐惧。她不祥的预感。这位年轻的病人用他简单的方式讲述了当天发生的事情，以及我们英勇的朋友们的行为。他们遭受了严重的痛苦。他们损失了很多官兵。当团冲锋时，少校的马在他身下被射杀，他们都以为奥多德已经走了，多宾已经获得了多数席位，直到他们从冲锋返回老阵地时，发现少校坐在马背上。皮拉摩斯的尸体，正在用箱子瓶给自己提神。奥斯本上尉砍倒了刺伤少尉的法国枪骑兵。阿米莉亚一想到这个，脸色就变得煞白，以至于奥多德夫人阻止了这个故事中的年轻少尉。那天结束时，多宾上尉虽然自己受伤了，但仍将这个小伙子抱在怀里，把他带到外科医生那里，然后又带到了将把他带回布鲁塞尔的马车上。正是他向司机许诺，如果他能前往塞德利先生在城里的酒店，他就可以得到两块路易。并告诉奥斯本上尉夫人，行动已经结束，她的丈夫没有受伤，身体状况良好。

‘Indeed, but he has a good heart that William Dobbin,’ Mrs. O’Dowd said, ‘though he is always laughing at me.’
“确实如此，但他比威廉·多宾有一颗善良的心，”奥多德夫人说，“尽管他总是嘲笑我。”

Young Stubble vowed there was not such another officer in the army, and never ceased his praises of the senior captain, his modesty, his kindness, and his admirable coolness in the field. To these parts of the conversation, Amelia lent a very distracted attention: it was only when George was spoken of that she listened, and when he was not mentioned, she thought about him.
年轻的斯塔布尔发誓，军队中再没有这样的军官，他从未停止过对这位资深上尉的赞扬，赞扬他的谦虚、善良和他在战场上令人钦佩的冷静。对于谈话的这些部分，阿米莉亚的注意力非常分散：只有当谈到乔治时她才会听，而当没有提到他时，她就会想起他。

In tending her patient, and in thinking of the wonderful escapes of the day before, her second day passed away not too slowly with Amelia. There was only one man in the army for her: and as long as he was well, it must be owned that its movements interested her little. All the reports which Jos brought from the streets fell very vaguely on her ears; though they were sufficient to give that timorous gentleman, and many other people then in Brussels, every disquiet. The French had been repulsed certainly, but it was after a severe and doubtful struggle, and with only a division of the French army. The Emperor, with the main body, was away at Ligny, where he had utterly annihilated the Prussians, and was now free to bring his whole force to bear upon the allies. The Duke of Wellington was retreating upon the capital, and a great battle must be fought under its walls probably, of which the chances were more than doubtful. The Duke of Wellington had but twenty thousand British troops on whom he could rely, for the Germans were raw militia, the Belgians disaffected, and with this handful his Grace had to resist a hundred and fifty thousand men that had broken into Belgium under Napoleon. Under Napoleon! What warrior was there, however famous and skilful, that could fight at odds with him?
在照顾病人的过程中，在回想起前一天的奇妙逃脱时，她和阿米莉亚一起度过的第二天并不慢。军队里只有一个人适合她：只要他还好，就必须承认，她对军队的动向不感兴趣。乔斯从街上带来的所有消息都模糊地传到了她的耳朵里。尽管它们足以让这位胆怯的绅士和当时在布鲁塞尔的许多其他人感到不安。法军确实被击退了，但那是在一场严峻而可疑的战斗之后，而且法军只有一个师。皇帝率领主力远赴利尼，在那里彻底歼灭了普鲁士人，现在可以自由地调动全部兵力向盟军发起冲击。威灵顿公爵正在向首都撤退，城墙下可能会发生一场大战，而这场战斗的机会是不容置疑的。威灵顿公爵只有两万名可以依靠的英国军队，因为德国人是原始民兵，比利时人心怀不满，他的公爵必须用这少数人来抵抗拿破仑统治下闯入比利时的十五万人。在拿破仑统治下！哪个武士，无论多么有名、技术如何，能够与他交锋呢？

Jos thought of all these things, and trembled. So did all the rest of Brussels—where people felt that the fight of the day before was but the prelude to the greater combat which was imminent. One of the armies opposed to the Emperor was scattered to the winds already. The few English that could be brought to resist him would perish at their posts, and the conqueror would pass over their bodies into the city. Woe be to those whom he found there! Addresses were prepared, public functionaries assembled and debated secretly, apartments were got ready, and tricoloured banners and triumphal emblems manufactured, to welcome the arrival of His Majesty the Emperor and King.
乔斯想到这一切，不禁浑身发抖。布鲁塞尔其他地方也是如此——人们觉得前一天的战斗只是即将到来的更大规模战斗的前奏。一支与皇帝为敌的军队已经四散了。少数能被派来抵抗他的英国人将死在自己的岗位上，征服者将把他们的尸体送进城里。他在那里找到的人有祸了！演讲准备好了，公职人员聚集在一起秘密辩论，公寓准备好了，三色横幅和凯旋徽章制作好了，以迎接皇帝陛下和国王陛下的到来。

The emigration still continued, and wherever families could find means of departure, they fled. When Jos, on the afternoon of the 17th of June, went to Rebecca’s hotel, he found that the great Bareacres’ carriage had at length rolled away from the portecochere. The Earl had procured a pair of horses somehow, in spite of Mrs. Crawley, and was rolling on the road to Ghent. Louis the Desired was getting ready his portmanteau in that city, too. It seemed as if Misfortune was never tired of worrying into motion that unwieldy exile.
移民仍在继续，只要家人能找到离开的地方，他们就逃到哪里。 6月17日下午，当乔斯前往丽贝卡下榻的旅馆时，他发现伟大的巴里亚克斯的马车终于驶离了门廊。伯爵不顾克劳利夫人的吩咐，不知怎么搞到了两匹马，正在前往根特的路上。理想中的路易也在那个城市准备他的组合包。似乎厄运总是不停地担心这个笨重的流放者。

Jos felt that the delay of yesterday had been only a respite, and that his dearly bought horses must of a surety be put into requisition. His agonies were very severe all this day. As long as there was an English army between Brussels and Napoleon, there was no need of immediate flight; but he had his horses brought from their distant stables, to the stables in the court-yard of the hotel where he lived; so that they might be under his own eyes, and beyond the risk of violent abduction. Isidor watched the stable-door constantly, and had the horses saddled, to be ready for the start. He longed intensely for that event.
乔斯觉得昨天的耽搁只是一个喘息的机会，他花重金买来的马匹肯定会被征用。这一天他的痛苦非常剧烈。只要布鲁塞尔和拿破仑之间还有一支英国军队，就不需要立即逃跑；但他让人把马从远处的马厩运到他住的旅馆庭院里的马厩里。这样他们就可以在他的眼皮底下，避免被暴力绑架的风险。伊西多一直注视着马厩门，并给马备好鞍，准备出发。他非常渴望那件事。

After the reception of the previous day, Rebecca did not care to come near her dear Amelia. She clipped the bouquet which George had brought her, and gave fresh water to the flowers, and read over the letter which he had sent her. ‘Poor wretch,’ she said, twirling round the little bit of paper in her fingers, ‘how I could crush her with this!—and it is for a thing like this that she must break her heart, forsooth—for a man who is stupid—a coxcomb—and who does not care for her. My poor good Rawdon is worth ten of this creature.’ And then she fell to thinking what she should do if—if anything happened to poor good Rawdon, and what a great piece of luck it was that he had left his horses behind.
前一天的接待结束后，丽贝卡不再愿意靠近她亲爱的阿米莉亚。她剪下乔治给她带来的花束，给花浇上清水，又读了一遍他寄给她的信。 “可怜的可怜虫，”她一边说，一边用手指转着那张小纸片，“我怎么能用这个压死她！——正是因为这样的事情，她必须伤透她的心，当然——因为一个男人是个愚蠢的人——一个花花公子——谁不关心她呢。我可怜的好罗顿值这个生物的十个。然后她开始思考如果——如果可怜的好罗顿出了什么事，她该怎么办，而他把马抛在了后面，真是太幸运了。

In the course of this day too, Mrs. Crawley, who saw not without anger the Bareacres party drive off, bethought her of the precaution which the Countess had taken, and did a little needlework for her own advantage; she stitched away the major part of her trinkets, bills, and bank-notes about her person, and so prepared, was ready for any event—to fly if she thought fit, or to stay and welcome the conqueror, were he Englishman or Frenchman. And I am not sure that she did not dream that night of becoming a duchess and Madame la Marechale, while Rawdon wrapped in his cloak, and making his bivouac under the rain at Mount Saint John, was thinking, with all the force of his heart, about the little wife whom he had left behind him.
同样在这一天，克劳利夫人看到巴里亚克斯一行人被赶走，心里不免愤怒，她想起了伯爵夫人所采取的预防措施，为了自己的利益做了一点针线活。她把身上的大部分小饰品、钞票和钞票都缝了起来，做好了准备，准备好应对任何事件——如果她认为合适的话就飞走，或者留下来欢迎征服者，无论他是英国人还是法国人。我不确定那天晚上她没有梦想成为公爵夫人，而拉马雷查尔夫人则裹着斗篷，在圣约翰山的雨下露营，全心全意地思考着。 ，关于他留下的小妻子。

The next day was a Sunday. And Mrs. Major O’Dowd had the satisfaction of seeing both her patients refreshed in health and spirits by some rest which they had taken during the night. She herself had slept on a great chair in Amelia’s room, ready to wait upon her poor friend or the ensign, should either need her nursing. When morning came, this robust woman went back to the house where she and her Major had their billet; and here performed an elaborate and splendid toilette, befitting the day. And it is very possible that whilst alone in that chamber, which her husband had inhabited, and where his cap still lay on the pillow, and his cane stood in the corner, one prayer at least was sent up to Heaven for the welfare of the brave soldier, Michael O’Dowd.
第二天是周日。奥多德少校夫人很满意地看到她的两个病人经过一夜的休息，身体和精神都焕然一新。她自己睡在阿米莉亚房间的一张大椅子上，准备好侍候她可怜的朋友或少尉，如果需要她的护理的话。当早晨到来时，这个健壮的女人回到了她和她的少校住的房子。在这里，他们表演了一场精心设计、华丽的梳妆打扮，以适应这一天。很有可能，当她独自一人待在她丈夫居住过的那个房间里时，他的帽子还放在枕头上，他的手杖立在角落里，至少有一个祈祷被送上天堂，祈求上帝的福祉。勇敢的士兵，迈克尔·奥多德。

When she returned she brought her prayer-book with her, and her uncle the Dean’s famous book of sermons, out of which she never failed to read every Sabbath; not understanding all, haply, not pronouncing many of the words aright, which were long and abstruse— for the Dean was a learned man, and loved long Latin words—but with great gravity, vast emphasis, and with tolerable correctness in the main. How often has my Mick listened to these sermons, she thought, and me reading in the cabin of a calm! She proposed to resume this exercise on the present day, with Amelia and the wounded ensign for a congregation. The same service was read on that day in twenty thousand churches at the same hour; and millions of British men and women, on their knees, implored protection of the Father of all.
当她回来时，她带来了她的祈祷书，还有她叔叔院长著名的布道书，她每个安息日都会读一遍。很可能，他并没有理解所有的内容，也没有正确地发音出许多单词，这些单词又长又深奥——因为院长是一位博学的人，喜欢长的拉丁单词——但语气严肃，重点突出，总体上还算正确。她想，我的米克听过这些布道多少次，而我则在平静的小屋里读书！她提议今天与阿米莉亚和受伤的少尉一起恢复这项活动。那天，两万个教堂在同一时间宣读了同样的仪式。数以百万计的英国男女跪下，祈求万有之父的保护。

They did not hear the noise which disturbed our little congregation at Brussels. Much louder than that which had interrupted them two days previously, as Mrs. O’Dowd was reading the service in her best voice, the cannon of Waterloo began to roar.
他们没有听到打扰我们在布鲁塞尔的小会众的噪音。当奥多德夫人用她最好的声音宣读仪式时，滑铁卢的大炮开始轰鸣，比两天前打扰他们的声音大得多。

When Jos heard that dreadful sound, he made up his mind that he would bear this perpetual recurrence of terrors no longer, and would fly at once. He rushed into the sick man’s room, where our three friends had paused in their prayers, and further interrupted them by a passionate appeal to Amelia.
当乔斯听到那可怕的声音时，他下定决心，不再忍受这种无休无止的恐怖，立刻飞走。他冲进病人的房间，我们的三个朋友正在那里暂停祈祷，并通过对阿米莉亚的热情呼吁进一步打断了他们。

‘I can’t stand it any more, Emmy,’ he said; ‘I won’t stand it; and you must come with me. I have bought a horse for you—never mind at what price—and you must dress and come with me, and ride behind Isidor.’
“我再也受不了了，艾美，”他说。 ‘我受不了；你必须跟我来。我已经给你买了一匹马——不管价格是多少——你必须穿好衣服跟我来，骑在伊西多后面。”

‘God forgive me, Mr. Sedley, but you are no better than a coward,’ Mrs. O’Dowd said, laying down the book.
“上帝原谅我，塞德利先生，但你只不过是个胆小鬼，”奥多德夫人放下书说道。

‘I say come, Amelia,’ the civilian went on; ‘never mind what she says; why are we to stop here and be butchered by the Frenchmen?’
“我说来吧，阿米莉亚，”平民继续说道。 “别管她说什么；为什么我们要停在这里并被法国人屠杀？

‘You forget the —th, my boy,’ said the little Stubble, the wounded hero, from his bed—‘and and you won’t leave me, will you, Mrs. O’Dowd?’
“你忘记了，我的孩子，”受伤的英雄小斯塔布尔从床上说道，“而且你不会离开我，是吗，奥多德夫人？”

‘No, my dear fellow,’ said she, going up and kissing the boy. ‘No harm shall come to you while I stand by. I don’t budge till I get the word from Mick. A pretty figure I’d be, wouldn’t I, stuck behind that chap on a pillion?’
“不，我亲爱的朋友，”她说着走上前去亲吻男孩。 ‘当我站在旁边时，你不会受到任何伤害。在得到米克的消息之前我不会让步。如果我被困在后座上那个家伙后面，我会是一个漂亮的人物，不是吗？

This image caused the young patient to burst out laughing in his bed, and even made Amelia smile. ‘I don’t ask her,’ Jos shouted out—‘I don’t ask that—that Irishwoman, but you Amelia; once for all, will you come?’
这个画面让床上的年轻病人哈哈大笑，甚至让阿米莉亚笑了。 “我不问她，”乔斯大声喊道——“我不问这个——那个爱尔兰女人，但你阿米莉亚；就一次，你会来吗？

‘Without my husband, Joseph?’ Amelia said, with a look of wonder, and gave her hand to the Major’s wife. Jos’s patience was exhausted.
“没有我的丈夫，约瑟夫？”阿米莉亚一脸惊奇地说，然后把手伸给了少校的妻子。乔斯的耐心已经耗尽。

‘Good-bye, then,’ he said, shaking his fist in a rage, and slamming the door by which he retreated. And this time he really gave his order for march: and mounted in the court-yard. Mrs. O’Dowd heard the clattering hoofs of the horses as they issued from the gate; and looking on, made many scornful remarks on poor Joseph as he rode down the street with Isidor after him in the laced cap. The horses, which had not been exercised for some days, were lively, and sprang about the street. Jos, a clumsy and timid horseman, did not look to advantage in the saddle. ‘Look at him, Amelia dear, driving into the parlour window. Such a bull in a china-shop I never saw.’ And presently the pair of riders disappeared at a canter down the street leading in the direction of the Ghent road, Mrs. O’Dowd pursuing them with a fire of sarcasm so long as they were in sight.
“那么，再见。”他愤怒地挥舞着拳头，然后关上门，然后退了出去。这次他真的下达了行军的命令：在庭院里上马。奥多德夫人听到马匹从大门跑出来时发出的马蹄声。当可怜的约瑟夫骑马穿过街道时，他在一旁看着，对他说了许多轻蔑的言论，戴着花边帽的伊西多跟在他后面。好几天没有锻炼的马匹都活泼起来，在街上蹦蹦跳跳。乔斯是一位笨手笨脚、胆怯的骑手，在马鞍上并不占优势。 “亲爱的阿米莉亚，看看他，正驶进客厅的窗户。瓷器店里有这么一头公牛，我从来没有见过。”不久，这对骑手沿着通往根特路方向的街道小跑着消失了，奥多德夫人用讽刺的火焰追赶他们，只要他们还活着。他们就在眼前。

All that day from morning until past sunset, the cannon never ceased to roar. It was dark when the cannonading stopped all of a sudden.
整整一天，从早上到日落，炮声从未停止过。天黑了，炮轰声突然停止了。

All of us have read of what occurred during that interval. The tale is in every Englishman’s mouth; and you and I, who were children when the great battle was won and lost, are never tired of hearing and recounting the history of that famous action. Its remembrance rankles still in the bosoms of millions of the countrymen of those brave men who lost the day. They pant for an opportunity of revenging that humiliation; and if a contest, ending in a victory on their part, should ensue, elating them in their turn, and leaving its cursed legacy of hatred and rage behind to us, there is no end to the so-called glory and shame, and to the alternations of successful and unsuccessful murder, in which two high-spirited nations might engage. Centuries hence, we Frenchmen and Englishmen might be boasting and killing each other still, carrying out bravely the Devil’s code of honour.
我们所有人都读过那段时间发生的事情。这个故事流传在每个英国人的嘴里。而你和我，在这场伟大战役的胜利和失败时还是孩子，我们永远不会厌倦聆听和讲述那场著名战役的历史。数以百万计的同胞仍对那场惨败的勇士怀念不已。他们渴望有机会报仇雪耻；如果一场比赛以他们的胜利告终，而他们又为自己而高兴，而把仇恨和愤怒的可恶遗产留给我们，那么所谓的荣耀和耻辱就没有尽头，成功和不成功的谋杀交替出现，两个斗志昂扬的国家可能会参与其中。几个世纪后，我们法国人和英国人可能仍在互相吹嘘和残杀，勇敢地执行魔鬼的荣誉准则。

All our friends took their share and fought like men in the great field. All day long, whilst the women were praying ten miles away, the lines of the dauntless English infantry were receiving and repelling the furious charges of the French horsemen. Guns which were heard at Brussels were ploughing up their ranks, and comrades falling, and the resolute survivors closing in. Towards evening, the attack of the French, repeated and resisted so bravely, slackened in its fury. They had other foes besides the British to engage, or were preparing for a final onset. It came at last: the columns of the Imperial Guard marched up the hill of Saint Jean, at length and at once to sweep the English from the height which they had maintained all day, and spite of all: unscared by the thunder of the artillery, which hurled death from the English line—the dark rolling column pressed on and up the hill. It seemed almost to crest the eminence, when it began to wave and falter. Then it stopped, still facing the shot. Then at last the English troops rushed from the post from which no enemy had been able to dislodge them, and the Guard turned and fled.
我们所有的朋友都分担了自己的责任，像男人一样在广阔的战场上战斗。一整天，当妇女们在十英里外祈祷时，无畏的英国步兵的阵线正在接受并击退法国骑兵的猛烈冲锋。布鲁塞尔的枪声不断逼近他们的队伍，战友倒下，而顽强的幸存者则逼近。傍晚时分，法军的进攻再次发起，英勇抵抗，但愤怒却有所减弱。除了英国人之外，他们还有其他敌人需要交战，或者正在准备最后的进攻。它终于来了：帝国卫队的纵队向圣让山上行进，最终立即将英格兰人从他们一整天坚守的高地上横扫而过，尽管如此，他们并没有被炮火的雷霆所吓倒。 ，它把死亡从英军的防线中抛了出来——黑暗的滚滚纵队向山上逼去。当它开始摇晃、摇摇欲坠时，它似乎快要达到顶峰了。然后它停了下来，仍然面向镜头。最后，英国军队从没有敌人能够驱逐他们的哨所冲出，卫兵转身逃跑。

No more firing was heard at Brussels—the pursuit rolled miles away. Darkness came down on the field and city: and Amelia was praying for George, who was lying on his face, dead, with a bullet through his heart.
布鲁塞尔再也没有听到枪声——追击者已经滚到了数英里之外。黑暗笼罩着田野和城市：阿米莉亚正在为乔治祈祷，乔治脸朝下躺着，死了，一颗子弹穿过了他的心脏。

Chapter XXXIII
第三十三章


In Which Miss Crawley’s Relations Are Very Anxious About Her
克劳利小姐的亲戚对她非常担心

The kind reader must please to remember—while the army is marching from Flanders, and, after its heroic actions there, is advancing to take the fortifications on the frontiers of France, previous to an occupation of that country—that there are a number of persons living peaceably in England who have to do with the history at present in hand, and must come in for their share of the chronicle. During the time of these battles and dangers, old Miss Crawley was living at Brighton, very moderately moved by the great events that were going on. The great events rendered the newspapers rather interesting, to be sure, and Briggs read out the Gazette, in which Rawdon Crawley’s gallantry was mentioned with honour, and his promotion was presently recorded.
善良的读者必须记住——当军队从佛兰德斯进军，并在其英勇行动之后，在占领法国之前，正在进攻法国边境的防御工事——有许多人和平生活在英国的人们，他们与当前的历史有关，并且必须参与编年史。在这些战斗和危险期间，老克劳利小姐住在布莱顿，对正在发生的重大事件感到非常温和。诚然，这些重大事件使报纸变得相当有趣，布里格斯宣读了《公报》，其中荣誉地提到了罗登·克劳利的英勇行为，并且他的晋升很快就被记录下来了。

‘What a pity that young man has taken such an irretrievable step in the world!’ his aunt said; ‘with his rank and distinction he might have married a brewer’s daughter with a quarter of a million—like Miss Grains; or have looked to ally himself with the best families in England. He would have had my money some day or other; or his children would—for I’m not in a hurry to go, Miss Briggs, although you may be in a hurry to be rid of me; and instead of that, he is a doomed pauper, with a dancing-girl for a wife.’
“可惜这个年轻人在世上迈出了如此不可挽回的一步！”他的姨妈说道。 “以他的地位和声望，他可能会娶一个拥有25万资产的酿酒商的女儿——就像谷物小姐一样；或者希望与英格兰最好的家庭结盟。总有一天他会得到我的钱；或者他的孩子们会——因为我并不急于走，布里格斯小姐，尽管你可能急于摆脱我；相反，他是一个注定是个穷光蛋，娶了一个舞女为妻。

‘Will my dear Miss Crawley not cast an eye of compassion upon the heroic soldier, whose name is inscribed in the annals of his country’s glory?’ said Miss Briggs, who was greatly excited by the Waterloo proceedings, and loved speaking romantically when there was an occasion. ‘Has not the Captain—or the Colonel as I may now style him—done deeds which make the name of Crawley illustrious?’
“我亲爱的克劳利小姐难道不会对这位英雄战士投以同情的目光吗？他的名字被铭刻在他国家的荣耀史册上？”布里格斯小姐说。一个场合。 “上尉——或者我现在称呼他为上校——难道没有做出让克劳利名声显赫的事迹吗？”

‘Briggs, you are a fool,’ said Miss Crawley: ‘Colonel Crawley has dragged the name of Crawley through the mud, Miss Briggs. Marry a drawing-master’s daughter, indeed!—marry a dame de compagnie—for she was no better, Briggs; no, she was just what you are—only younger, and a great deal prettier and cleverer. Were you an accomplice of that abandoned wretch, I wonder, of whose vile arts he became a victim, and of whom you used to be such an admirer? Yes, I daresay you were an accomplice. But you will find yourself disappointed in my will, I can tell you: and you will have the goodness to write to Mr. Waxy, and say that I desire to see him immediately.’ Miss Crawley was now in the habit of writing to Mr. Waxy her solicitor almost every day in the week, for her arrangements respecting her property were all revoked, and her perplexity was great as to the future disposition of her money.
“布里格斯，你是个傻瓜，”克劳利小姐说，“克劳利上校把克劳利的名字拖入了泥沼，布里格斯小姐。确实，嫁给一位绘画大师的女儿！——嫁给一位公司贵妇——因为她也好不了多少，布里格斯；不，她和你一样——只是更年轻，而且更漂亮、更聪明。我想知道，你是那个被遗弃的可怜虫的同谋吗？他成为了他的卑鄙艺术的受害者，而你曾经是他的崇拜者？是的，我敢说你是同谋。但是你会发现自己对我的遗嘱感到失望，我可以告诉你：你会很高兴地写信给瓦克西先生，并说我希望立即见到他。一周中几乎每天都和她的律师打交道，因为她对财产的安排全部被撤销，她对自己的钱的未来处置感到非常困惑。

The spinster had, however, rallied considerably; as was proved by the increased vigour and frequency of her sarcasms upon Miss Briggs, all which attacks the poor companion bore with meekness, with cowardice, with a resignation that was half generous and half hypocritical—with the slavish submission, in a word, that women of her disposition and station are compelled to show. Who has not seen how women bully women? What tortures have men to endure, comparable to those daily repeated shafts of scorn and cruelty with which poor women are riddled by the tyrants of their sex? Poor victims! But we are starting from our proposition, which is, that Miss Crawley was always particularly annoying and savage when she was rallying from illness—as they say wounds tingle most when they are about to heal.
然而，这位老处女却已经振作起来。她对布里格斯小姐的讽刺越来越强烈和频繁，这一切都证明了这一点，所有这些都以温顺、怯懦、半慷慨半虚伪的顺从来攻击可怜的同伴——总而言之，带着奴性的屈服，像她这样的性情和地位的女人不得不表现出来。谁没见过女人欺负女人的样子？与可怜的妇女每天遭受的性别暴君的蔑视和残忍相比，男人要忍受什么折磨呢？可怜的受害者！但我们从我们的主张出发，即克劳利小姐在病愈时总是特别烦人和野蛮——正如人们所说，伤口在即将愈合时最刺痛。

While thus approaching, as all hoped, to convalescence, Miss Briggs was the only victim admitted into the presence of the invalid; yet Miss Crawley’s relatives afar off did not forget their beloved kinswoman, and by a number of tokens, presents, and kind affectionate messages, strove to keep themselves alive in her recollection.
正如所有人所希望的那样，布里格斯小姐即将康复，她是唯一一位被接纳到病人面前的受害者。然而，克劳利小姐远方的亲人并没有忘记他们心爱的女亲戚，通过一系列的纪念品、礼物和善意的深情信息，努力让自己活在她的记忆中。

In the first place, let us mention her nephew, Rawdon Crawley. A few weeks after the famous fight of Waterloo, and after the Gazette had made known to her the promotion and gallantry of that distinguished officer, the Dieppe packet brought over to Miss Crawley at Brighton, a box containing presents, and a dutiful letter, from the Colonel her nephew. In the box were a pair of French epaulets, a Cross of the Legion of Honour, and the hilt of a sword—relics from the field of battle: and the letter described with a good deal of humour how the latter belonged to a commanding officer of the Guard, who having sworn that ‘the Guard died, but never surrendered,’ was taken prisoner the next minute by a private soldier, who broke the Frenchman’s sword with the butt of his musket, when Rawdon made himself master of the shattered weapon. As for the cross and epaulets, they came from a Colonel of French cavalry, who had fallen under the aide-de-camp’s arm in the battle: and Rawdon Crawley did not know what better to do with the spoils than to send them to his kindest and most affectionate old friend. Should he continue to write to her from Paris, whither the army was marching? He might be able to give her interesting news from that capital, and of some of Miss Crawley’s old friends of the emigration, to whom she had shown so much kindness during their distress.
首先，让我们提一下她的侄子罗登·克劳利。著名的滑铁卢战役发生几周后，《公报》让她知道这位杰出军官的晋升和英勇行为后，迪耶普包裹被带到布莱顿的克劳利小姐手中，里面有一个盒子，里面装着礼物和一封尽职尽责的信，来自上校是她的侄子。盒子里有一对法国肩章、一枚荣誉军团十字勋章和一把剑柄——来自战场的遗物：信中幽默地描述了剑柄是如何属于一名指挥官的。这名卫兵发誓“卫兵死了，但从未投降”，下一分钟就被一名列兵俘虏，他用步枪枪托折断了法国人的剑，而罗登则掌握了这把破碎的武器。 。至于十字架和肩章，它们来自一位法国骑兵上校，他在战斗中倒在副官的手臂下：罗顿·克劳利不知道如何更好地处理这些战利品，而不是把它们送到他的手下。最善良、最深情的老朋友。他应该继续从军队行进的巴黎给她写信吗？他或许可以告诉她来自那个首都的有趣消息，以及克劳利小姐移民时的一些老朋友的消息，在他们的痛苦期间，她对他们表现出了如此多的善意。

The spinster caused Briggs to write back to the Colonel a gracious and complimentary letter, encouraging him to continue his correspondence. His first letter was so excessively lively and amusing that she should look with pleasure for its successors.—‘Of course, I know,’ she explained to Miss Briggs, ‘that Rawdon could not write such a good letter any more than you could, my poor Briggs, and that it is that clever little wretch of a Rebecca, who dictates every word to him; but that is no reason why my nephew should not amuse me; and so I wish to let him understand that I am in high good humour.’
老处女让布里格斯给上校回了一封亲切而赞扬的信，鼓励他继续通信。他的第一封信是如此的生动有趣，以至于她应该高兴地寻找它的继任者。——“当然，我知道，”她向布里格斯小姐解释说，“罗登不能像你一样写出这么好的信，我可怜的布里格斯，正是那个聪明的小可怜丽贝卡，向他口述了每一个字；但这并不是我的侄子不逗我开心的理由；所以我想让他明白我心情很好。

I wonder whether she knew that it was not only Becky who wrote the letters, but that Mrs. Rawdon actually took and sent home the trophies which she bought for a few francs, from one of the innumerable pedlars who immediately began to deal in relics of the war. The novelist, who knows everything, knows this also. Be this, however, as it may, Miss Crawley’s gracious reply greatly encouraged our young friends, Rawdon and his lady, who hoped for the best from their aunt’s evidently pacified humour: and they took care to entertain her with many delightful letters from Paris, whither, as Rawdon said, they had the good luck to go in the track of the conquering army.
我不知道她是否知道，写这些信的不仅是贝基，而且罗登夫人实际上把她花几法郎买来的战利品带回家，这些战利品是从无数立即开始从事文物交易的小贩之一手中拿走的。战争。无所不知的小说家也知道这一点。然而，无论如何，克劳利小姐亲切的答复极大地鼓舞了我们年轻的朋友罗登和他的夫人，他们希望从姨妈明显平静的幽默中得到最好的结果：他们小心翼翼地用许多来自巴黎的令人愉快的信件来招待她，正如罗登所说，他们很幸运地追随了征服者军队的脚步。

To the rector’s lady, who went off to tend her husband’s broken collar-bone at the Rectory at Queen’s Crawley, the spinster’s communications were by no means so gracious. Mrs. Bute, that brisk, managing, lively, imperious woman, had committed the most fatal of all errors with regard to her sister-in-law. She had not merely oppressed her and her household—she had bored Miss Crawley; and if poor Miss Briggs had been a woman of any spirit, she might have been made happy by the commission which her principal gave her to write a letter to Mrs. Bute Crawley, saying that Miss Crawley’s health was greatly improved since Mrs. Bute had left her, and begging the latter on no account to put herself to trouble, or quit her family for Miss Crawley’s sake. This triumph over a lady who had been very haughty and cruel in her behaviour to Miss Briggs, would have rejoiced most women; but the truth is, Briggs was a woman of no spirit at all, and the moment her enemy was discomfited, she began to feel compassion in her favour.
对于去皇后克劳利教区长的教区长夫人照顾丈夫骨折的锁骨的夫人来说，这位老处女的交流绝非如此亲切。布特太太，这个活泼、善于管理、活泼、专横的女人，在她的嫂子身上犯下了最致命的错误。她不仅压迫了她和她的家人，还让克劳利小姐感到厌烦；她还让克劳利小姐感到厌烦。如果可怜的布里格斯小姐是一个有精神的女人，她可能会因为校长委托她给布特·克劳利夫人写一封信而感到高兴，信中说自从布特夫人接受治疗以来，克劳利小姐的健康状况大大改善了。离开了她，并恳求后者不要给自己找麻烦，或者为了克劳利小姐而离开她的家庭。对于一位对布里格斯小姐的行为非常傲慢和残忍的女士来说，这次胜利会让大多数女人感到高兴；但事实是，布里格斯是一个毫无精神的女人，当她的敌人感到沮丧时，她开始对自己产生同情心。

‘How silly I was,’ Mrs. Bute thought, and with reason, ‘ever to hint that I was coming, as I did, in that foolish letter when we sent Miss Crawley the guinea-fowls. I ought to have gone without a word to the poor dear doting old creature, and taken her out of the hands of that ninny Briggs, and that harpy of a femme de chambre. Oh! Bute, Bute, why did you break your collar-bone?’
“我真是太傻了，”布特太太想道，她的理智是这样想的，“在我们给克劳利小姐寄珍珠鸡的那封愚蠢的信中，我确实暗示过我要来。”我应该一言不发地去见这个可怜的、亲爱的、溺爱的老家伙，把她从那个愚蠢的布里格斯和那个女人的手中夺走。哦！布特，布特，你为什么摔断锁骨？

Why, indeed? We have seen how Mrs. Bute, having the game in her hands, had really played her cards too well. She had ruled over Miss Crawley’s household utterly and completely, to be utterly and completely routed when a favourable opportunity for rebellion came. She and her household, however, considered that she had been the victim of horrible selfishness and treason, and that her sacrifices in Miss Crawley’s behalf had met with the most savage ingratitude. Rawdon’s promotion, and the honourable mention made of his name in the Gazette, filled this good Christian lady also with alarm. Would his aunt relent towards him now that he was a Lieutenant-Colonel and a C.B.? and would that odious Rebecca once more get into favour? The Rector’s wife wrote a sermon for her husband about the vanity of military glory and the prosperity of the wicked, which the worthy parson read in his best voice and without understanding one syllable of it. He had Pitt Crawley for one of his auditors—Pitt, who had come with his two half-sisters to church, which the old Baronet could now by no means be brought to frequent.
确实是为什么？我们已经看到，布特夫人手中握有游戏，她的牌确实打得太好了。她彻底地统治了克劳利小姐的家庭，当叛乱的有利机会到来时，她就被彻底地彻底击溃了。然而，她和她的家人认为她是可怕的自私和叛国的受害者，她为克劳利小姐做出的牺牲遭到了最野蛮的忘恩负义。罗登的晋升，以及《公报》对他名字的荣誉提及，也让这位善良的基督徒女士感到震惊。既然他是中校和军士，他的姨妈会对他态度软化吗？那个可恶的丽贝卡会再次受到青睐吗？教区长的妻子为她的丈夫写了一篇布道，内容是关于军事荣耀的虚荣和恶人的繁荣，可敬的牧师用他最好的声音朗读了布道，但一个音节都听不懂。他邀请皮特·克劳利作为他的一位审计员——皮特和他的两个同父异母的姐妹一起来教堂，而老男爵现在再也不能经常去教堂了。

Since the departure of Becky Sharp, that old wretch had given himself up entirely to his bad courses, to the great scandal of the county and the mute horror of his son. The ribbons in Miss Horrocks’s cap became more splendid than ever. The polite families fled the hall and its owner in terror. Sir Pitt went about tippling at his tenants’ houses; and drank rum-and-water with the farmers at Mudbury and the neighbouring places on market-days. He drove the family coach-and-four to Southampton with Miss Horrocks inside: and the county people expected, every week, as his son did in speechless agony, that his marriage with her would be announced in the provincial paper. It was indeed a rude burthen for Mr. Crawley to bear. His eloquence was palsied at the missionary meetings, and other religious assemblies in the neighbourhood, where he had been in the habit of presiding, and of speaking for hours; for he felt, when he rose, that the audience said, ‘That is the son of the old reprobate Sir Pitt, who is very likely drinking at the public house at this very moment.’ And once when he was speaking of the benighted condition of the king of Timbuctoo, and the number of his wives who were likewise in darkness, some gipsy miscreant from the crowd asked, ‘How many is there at Queen’s Crawley, Young Squaretoes?’ to the surprise of the platform, and the ruin of Mr. Pitt’s speech. And the two daughters of the house of Queen’s Crawley would have been allowed to run utterly wild (for Sir Pitt swore that no governess should ever enter into his doors again), had not Mr. Crawley, by threatening the old gentleman, forced the latter to send them to school.
自从贝基·夏普离开后，那个老家伙就完全沉迷于他的坏行径，沉迷于全县的巨大丑闻和他儿子的无声恐惧。霍罗克斯小姐帽子上的丝带变得比以往更加华丽。彬彬有礼的一家人惊恐地逃离了大厅和大厅的主人。皮特爵士在他的租客家里到处喝酒。在集市日与马德伯里和邻近地区的农民一起喝朗姆酒和水。他开着家里的四人马车去南安普敦，里面载着霍罗克斯小姐：县里的人们每周都期待着他和她的婚姻会在省报纸上宣布，就像他儿子在无言的痛苦中所做的那样。这对克劳利先生来说确实是一个无礼的负担。在传教士会议和附近的其他宗教集会中，他的口才变得麻木，他在这些集会中习惯于主持并演讲几个小时；但他的口才却变得迟钝。因为当他站起来时，他感觉到观众说：“那是老恶棍皮特爵士的儿子，他此时很可能正在酒吧喝酒。”有一次，当他谈到愚昧无知的情况时听到廷巴克图国王的消息，以及同样陷入黑暗的他的妻子的数量，人群中的一些吉卜赛恶棍问道：“年轻的方趾们，皇后克劳利有多少人？”令站台和废墟感到惊讶。皮特先生致辞。如果不是克劳利先生威胁老绅士，强迫后者，克劳利女王家族的两个女儿就会被允许彻底放肆（因为皮特爵士发誓任何家庭女教师都不得再进入他的家门）。送他们去学校。

Meanwhile, as we have said, whatever individual differences there might be between them all, Miss Crawley’s dear nephews and nieces were unanimous in loving her and sending her tokens of affection. Thus Mrs. Bute sent guinea-fowls, and some remarkably fine cauliflowers, and a pretty purse or pincushion worked by her darling girls, who begged to keep a LITTLE place in the recollection of their dear aunt, while Mr. Pitt sent peaches and grapes and venison from the Hall. The Southampton coach used to carry these tokens of affection to Miss Crawley at Brighton: it used sometimes to convey Mr. Pitt thither too: for his differences with Sir Pitt caused Mr. Crawley to absent himself a good deal from home now: and besides, he had an attraction at Brighton in the person of the Lady Jane Sheepshanks, whose engagement to Mr. Crawley has been formerly mentioned in this history. Her Ladyship and her sisters lived at Brighton with their mamma, the Countess Southdown, that strongminded woman so favourably known in the serious world.
与此同时，正如我们所说，无论克劳利小姐亲爱的侄子侄女们之间存在怎样的个体差异，他们都一致爱她，并向她寄来​​深情的信物。因此，布特夫人送来了珍珠鸡、一些非常漂亮的花椰菜，以及一个由她亲爱的女儿们制作的漂亮的钱包或针垫，她们请求在她们亲爱的姑妈的回忆中保留一点位置，而皮特先生则送来桃子和葡萄。和来自大厅的鹿肉。南安普顿教练过去常常在布莱顿向克劳利小姐传达这些感情的信物：有时它也用来将皮特先生带到那里：因为他与皮特爵士的分歧导致克劳利先生现在经常缺席家里：此外，在布莱顿，简·希普香克斯夫人对他产生了吸引力，她与克劳利先生的订婚曾在这段历史中被提及过。夫人和她的姐妹们与她们的母亲绍斯当伯爵夫人一起住在布莱顿，这位坚强的女人在严肃的世界中广为人知。

A few words ought to be said regarding her Ladyship and her noble family, who are bound by ties of present and future relationship to the house of Crawley. Respecting the chief of the Southdown family, Clement William, fourth Earl of Southdown, little need be told, except that his Lordship came into Parliament (as Lord Wolsey) under the auspices of Mr. Wilberforce, and for a time was a credit to his political sponsor, and decidedly a serious young man. But words cannot describe the feelings of his admirable mother, when she learned, very shortly after her noble husband’s demise, that her son was a member of several worldly clubs, had lost largely at play at Wattier’s and the Cocoa Tree; that he had raised money on postobits, and encumbered the family estate; that he drove four-in-hand, and patronised the ring; and that he actually had an opera-box, where he entertained the most dangerous bachelor company. His name was only mentioned with groans in the dowager’s circle.
关于她的夫人和她的贵族家族，应该说几句话，他们与克劳利家族现在和未来的关系都紧密相连。说到绍斯当家族的首领，克莱门特·威廉，第四代绍斯当伯爵，无需多言，只是他的爵位是在威尔伯福斯先生的支持下进入议会的（沃尔西勋爵），并一度为他赢得了荣誉。政治赞助人，而且绝对是一个严肃的年轻人。但言语无法描述他令人敬佩的母亲的感受，在她高贵的丈夫去世后不久，她得知她的儿子是几个世俗俱乐部的成员，在瓦蒂尔和可可树的比赛中输掉了大部分比赛；他通过邮政储蓄筹集了资金，并抵押了家庭财产；他是四手驾驶，并且光顾拳击场；他实际上有一个歌剧院，在那里他招待最危险的单身汉团体。他的名字只在太后的圈子里以呻吟声被提及。

The Lady Emily was her brother’s senior by many years; and took considerable rank in the serious world as author of some of the delightful tracts before mentioned, and of many hymns and spiritual pieces. A mature spinster, and having but faint ideas of marriage, her love for the blacks occupied almost all her feelings. It is to her, I believe, we owe that beautiful poem.
艾米丽女士比她哥哥年长很多年。作为前面提到的一些令人愉快的小册子以及许多赞美诗和精神作品的作者，他在严肃的世界中享有相当高的地位。一个成熟的老处女，对婚姻的想法微乎其微，对黑人的爱几乎占据了她全部的感情。我相信，我们欠她那首美丽的诗。

Lead us to some sunny isle,
带我们去某个阳光明媚的小岛，

Yonder in the western deep;
那边的西部深处；

Where the skies for ever smile,
天空永远微笑的地方，

And the blacks for ever weep, &c.
黑人永远哭泣，等等。

She had correspondences with clerical gentlemen in most of our East and West India possessions; and was secretly attached to the Reverend Silas Hornblower, who was tattooed in the South Sea Islands.
她与东印度和西印度大部分领地的神职人员都有书信往来。并秘密依附于在南海群岛纹身的塞拉斯·霍恩布洛尔牧师。

As for the Lady Jane, on whom, as it has been said, Mr. Pitt Crawley’s affection had been placed, she was gentle, blushing, silent, and timid. In spite of his falling away, she wept for her brother, and was quite ashamed of loving him still. Even yet she used to send him little hurried smuggled notes, and pop them into the post in private. The one dreadful secret which weighed upon her life was, that she and the old housekeeper had been to pay Southdown a furtive visit at his chambers in the Albany; and found him—O the naughty dear abandoned wretch!—smoking a cigar with a bottle of Curacao before him. She admired her sister, she adored her mother, she thought Mr. Crawley the most delightful and accomplished of men, after Southdown, that fallen angel: and her mamma and sister, who were ladies of the most superior sort, managed everything for her, and regarded her with that amiable pity, of which your really superior woman always has such a share to give away. Her mamma ordered her dresses, her books, her bonnets, and her ideas for her. She was made to take pony-riding, or piano-exercise, or any other sort of bodily medicament, according as my Lady Southdown saw meet; and her ladyship would have kept her daughter in pinafores up to her present age of six-and-twenty, but that they were thrown off when Lady Jane was presented to Queen Charlotte.
至于简女士，据说，皮特·克劳利先生对她倾注了感情，她温柔、脸红、沉默、胆怯。尽管他离经叛道，她还是为她的兄弟哭泣，并为仍然爱他而感到羞愧。尽管如此，她还是常常给他寄一些匆忙的走私便条，并私下将它们塞进邮局。令她一生沉重的一个可怕的秘密是，她和老管家曾偷偷拜访过绍斯当在奥尔巴尼的房间。发现他——噢，这个顽皮的、亲爱的被遗弃的可怜虫！——正在抽雪茄，面前放着一瓶库拉索酒。她钦佩她的姐姐，她崇拜她的母亲，她认为克劳利先生是继南唐那个堕落天使之后最令人愉快和最有成就的男人：而她的妈妈和姐姐是最优秀的女士，为她打理一切，并以一种和蔼可亲的怜悯对待她，你真正优秀的女人总是有这样的一份可以给予的。她妈妈为她订购了衣服、书籍、帽子和创意。据我的绍斯唐夫人所见，她被要求参加骑马、钢琴练习或任何其他类型的身体药物治疗；夫人本来会让女儿一直穿着围裙一直到她现在六岁二十岁，但当简夫人被介绍给夏洛特王后时，她们就不再穿围裙了。

When these ladies first came to their house at Brighton, it was to them alone that Mr. Crawley paid his personal visits, contenting himself by leaving a card at his aunt’s house, and making a modest inquiry of Mr. Bowls or his assistant footman, with respect to the health of the invalid. When he met Miss Briggs coming home from the library with a cargo of novels under her arm, Mr. Crawley blushed in a manner quite unusual to him, as he stepped forward and shook Miss Crawley’s companion by the hand. He introduced Miss Briggs to the lady with whom he happened to be walking, the Lady Jane Sheepshanks, saying, ‘Lady Jane, permit me to introduce to you my aunt’s kindest friend and most affectionate companion, Miss Briggs, whom you know under another title, as authoress of the delightful ‘Lyrics of the Heart,’ of which you are so fond.’ Lady Jane blushed too as she held out a kind little hand to Miss Briggs, and said something very civil and incoherent about mamma, and proposing to call on Miss Crawley, and being glad to be made known to the friends and relatives of Mr. Crawley; and with soft dove-like eyes saluted Miss Briggs as they separated, while Pitt Crawley treated her to a profound courtly bow, such as he had used to H.H. the Duchess of Pumpernickel, when he was attache at that court.
当这些女士第一次来到他们在布莱顿的家时，克劳利先生只对她们进行了亲自拜访，满足于在他姨妈家留下一张卡片，并向鲍尔斯先生或他的助理男仆进行谦虚的询问，关乎病人的健康。当克劳利先生遇见布里格斯小姐腋下夹着一堆小说从图书馆回家时，克劳利先生以一种对他来说很不寻常的方式脸红了，他走上前握住了克劳利小姐同伴的手。他把布里格斯小姐介绍给与他一起散步的那位女士，简·希普香克斯女士，说：“简女士，请允许我向您介绍我姨妈最善良的朋友和最深情的伴侣，布里格斯小姐，您以另一个头衔认识她。” “作为令人愉快的《心灵抒情诗》的作者，你非常喜欢这本书。”简夫人也脸红了，她向布里格斯小姐伸出了一只友善的小手，说了一些关于妈妈的非常礼貌和语无伦次的话，并提议拜访克劳利小姐，并很高兴被克劳利先生的朋友和亲戚认识；当他们分开时，皮特·克劳利用温柔的鸽子般的眼睛向布里格斯小姐行礼，而皮特·克劳利则向她深深鞠了一躬，就像他在法庭上担任随员时对裸麦尼克尔公爵夫人殿下那样。

The artful diplomatist and disciple of the Machiavellian Binkie! It was he who had given Lady Jane that copy of poor Briggs’s early poems, which he remembered to have seen at Queen’s Crawley, with a dedication from the poetess to his father’s late wife; and he brought the volume with him to Brighton, reading it in the Southampton coach and marking it with his own pencil, before he presented it to the gentle Lady Jane.
狡猾的外交家和马基雅维利主义者宾基的弟子！正是他给了简夫人那本可怜的布里格斯的早期诗作，他记得在克劳利女王学院见过这首诗，上面有这位女诗人献给他父亲已故妻子的献词。他把这本书带到了布莱顿，在南安普顿的车厢里读了它，并用自己的铅笔做了标记，然后把它送给了温柔的简夫人。

It was he, too, who laid before Lady Southdown the great advantages which might occur from an intimacy between her family and Miss Crawley—advantages both worldly and spiritual, he said: for Miss Crawley was now quite alone; the monstrous dissipation and alliance of his brother Rawdon had estranged her affections from that reprobate young man; the greedy tyranny and avarice of Mrs. Bute Crawley had caused the old lady to revolt against the exorbitant pretensions of that part of the family; and though he himself had held off all his life from cultivating Miss Crawley’s friendship, with perhaps an improper pride, he thought now that every becoming means should be taken, both to save her soul from perdition, and to secure her fortune to himself as the head of the house of Crawley.
也正是他，向索斯当夫人提出了她的家人和克劳利小姐之间的亲密关系可能带来的巨大好处——既有世俗的好处，也有精神上的好处，他说：因为克劳利小姐现在很孤独；因为她的家人和克劳利小姐之间的亲密关系可能会带来巨大的好处。荒唐的放荡和他兄弟罗顿的联盟已经使她对那个堕落的年轻人疏远了。布特·克劳利夫人的贪婪暴政和贪婪，使老太太对家族那部分人的过分自负产生了反抗。尽管他自己一生都没有与克劳利小姐培养友谊，也许是出于一种不合时宜的骄傲，但他现在认为应该采取一切适当的手段，既可以拯救她的灵魂免遭灭亡，又可以确保她的财产属于他自己。克劳利家族的族长。

The strong-minded Lady Southdown quite agreed in both proposals of her son-in-law, and was for converting Miss Crawley off-hand. At her own home, both at Southdown and at Trottermore Castle, this tall and awful missionary of the truth rode about the country in her barouche with outriders, launched packets of tracts among the cottagers and tenants, and would order Gaffer Jones to be converted, as she would order Goody Hicks to take a James’s powder, without appeal, resistance, or benefit of clergy. My Lord Southdown, her late husband, an epileptic and simple-minded nobleman, was in the habit of approving of everything which his Matilda did and thought. So that whatever changes her own belief might undergo (and it accommodated itself to a prodigious variety of opinion, taken from all sorts of doctors among the Dissenters) she had not the least scruple in ordering all her tenants and inferiors to follow and believe after her. Thus whether she received the Reverend Saunders McNitre, the Scotch divine; or the Reverend Luke Waters, the mild Wesleyan; or the Reverend Giles Jowls, the illuminated Cobbler, who dubbed himself Reverend as Napoleon crowned himself Emperor—the household, children, tenantry of my Lady Southdown were expected to go down on their knees with her Ladyship, and say Amen to the prayers of either Doctor. During these exercises old Southdown, on account of his invalid condition, was allowed to sit in his own room, and have negus and the paper read to him. Lady Jane was the old Earl’s favourite daughter, and tended him and loved him sincerely: as for Lady Emily, the authoress of the ‘Washerwoman of Finchley Common,’ her denunciations of future punishment (at this period, for her opinions modified afterwards) were so awful that they used to frighten the timid old gentleman her father, and the physicians declared his fits always occurred after one of her Ladyship’s sermons.
意志坚强的绍斯当夫人非常同意女婿的两项提议，并立即同意克劳利小姐的皈依。在她自己的家中，无论是在绍斯当还是在特罗特莫尔城堡，这位身材高大、可怕的真理传教士，与护卫一起骑着她的四轮马车走遍全国，向佃农和佃户分发一包包的小册子，并命令加弗·琼斯皈依，正如她会命令古迪·希克斯服用詹姆斯粉，无需上诉、抵抗或神职人员的帮助。绍斯当勋爵，她已故的丈夫，一位患有癫痫症且头脑简单的贵族，习惯于赞同他的玛蒂尔达所做和所想的一切。因此，无论她自己的信仰可能发生什么变化（它适应了来自持不同政见者中各种医生的各种各样的意见），她毫不犹豫地命令她所有的佃户和下级追随并相信她。因此，她是否接受了苏格兰圣人桑德斯·麦克尼特牧师的邀请？或者温和的卫斯理派卢克·沃特斯牧师；或者是贾尔斯·乔尔斯牧师（Reverend Giles Jowls），这位闪闪发光的鞋匠，在拿破仑加冕为皇帝时，他自称为牧师——我的绍斯唐夫人的家人、孩子和佃户都应该和她的夫人一起下跪，并对其中任何一个的祈祷说“阿门”医生。在这些练习中，老绍斯当由于身体状况不佳，被允许坐在自己的房间里，让内格斯和报纸读给他听。 简夫人是老伯爵最宠爱的女儿，真诚地照顾他、爱着他：至于《芬奇利公地的洗衣妇》的作者艾米丽夫人，她对未来惩罚的谴责（在这个时期，因为她的观点后来有所修改）是如此可怕，以至于他们常常吓唬她父亲胆怯的老绅士，医生们宣称他的痉挛总是发生在夫人的一次布道之后。

‘I will certainly call,’ said Lady Southdown then, in reply to the exhortation of her daughter’s pretendu, Mr. Pitt Crawley—‘Who is Miss Crawley’s medical man?’
“我一定会打电话的，”索斯唐夫人回答她女儿的假扮者皮特·克劳利先生的劝告时说道，“克劳利小姐的医生是谁？”

Mr. Crawley mentioned the name of Mr. Creamer.
克劳利先生提到了克里默先生的名字。

‘A most dangerous and ignorant practitioner, my dear Pitt. I have providentially been the means of removing him from several houses: though in one or two instances I did not arrive in time. I could not save poor dear General Glanders, who was dying under the hands of that ignorant man—dying. He rallied a little under the Podgers’ pills which I administered to him; but alas! it was too late. His death was delightful, however; and his change was only for the better; Creamer, my dear Pitt, must leave your aunt.’
“我亲爱的皮特，一个最危险和无知的实践者。幸运的是，我已经把他从好几所房子里带走了：尽管有一两次我没有及时到达。我无法拯救可怜的亲爱的格兰德斯将军，他正在那个无知的人的手下死去——快死了。在我给他服用的波杰药丸的作用下，他的精神稍稍恢复了一些。可惜！已经太迟了。然而，他的死是令人愉快的。他的改变只是为了更好；克里默，我亲爱的皮特，必须离开你的阿姨。

Pitt expressed his perfect acquiescence. He, too, had been carried along by the energy of his noble kinswoman, and future mother-inlaw. He had been made to accept Saunders McNitre, Luke Waters, Giles Jowls, Podgers’ Pills, Rodgers’ Pills, Pokey’s Elixir, every one of her Ladyship’s remedies spiritual or temporal. He never left her house without carrying respectfully away with him piles of her quack theology and medicine. O, my dear brethren and fellowsojourners in Vanity Fair, which among you does not know and suffer under such benevolent despots? It is in vain you say to them, ‘Dear Madam, I took Podgers’ specific at your orders last year, and believe in it. Why, why am I to recant and accept the Rodgers’ articles now?’ There is no help for it; the faithful proselytizer, if she cannot convince by argument, bursts into tears, and the refusant finds himself, at the end of the contest, taking down the bolus, and saying, ‘Well, well, Rodgers’ be it.’
皮特表示完全默许。他也被他高贵的女亲戚和未来的岳母的能量所鼓舞。他被迫接受桑德斯·麦克尼特、卢克·沃特斯、贾尔斯·乔尔斯、波杰斯药丸、罗杰斯药丸、波基万能药，以及夫人的每一种精神或世俗疗法。每次离开她的家，他都会恭恭敬敬地带走她堆积如山的庸医神学和医学。哦，我亲爱的弟兄们和《名利场》的旅友们，你们当中谁不知道并在这样仁慈的暴君之下受苦呢？你对他们说：“亲爱的女士，我去年按照你的命令买了波杰斯”，并相信它，这是徒劳的。为什么，为什么我现在要放弃并接受罗杰斯的文章？忠实的传教者如果无法通过论证说服别人，就会大哭起来，而拒绝者会发现自己在比赛结束时取下了丸剂，并说：“好吧，好吧，罗杰斯，就这样吧。”

‘And as for her spiritual state,’ continued the Lady, ‘that of course must be looked to immediately: with Creamer about her, she may go off any day: and in what a condition, my dear Pitt, in what a dreadful condition! I will send the Reverend Mr. Irons to her instantly. Jane, write a line to the Reverend Bartholomew Irons, in the third person, and say that I desire the pleasure of his company this evening at tea at half-past six. He is an awakening man; he ought to see Miss Crawley before she rests this night. And Emily, my love, get ready a packet of books for Miss Crawley. Put up ‘A Voice from the Flames,’ ‘A Trumpet-warning to Jericho,’ and the ‘Fleshpots Broken; or, the Converted Cannibal.’’
“至于她的精神状态，”女士继续说道，“当然必须立即关注：克里默在她身边，她可能随时离开：在什么情况下，我亲爱的皮特，在多么可怕的情况下！我会立即派艾恩斯牧师先生去见她。简，用第三人称给巴塞洛缪·艾恩斯牧师写一封信，说我希望今晚六点半喝茶时能有他的陪伴。他是一个觉醒的人；他应该在克劳利小姐今晚休息之前去见她。艾米丽，我的爱人，为克劳利小姐准备一包书。贴出“火焰之声”、“向耶利哥发出号角警告”和“破碎的肉罐”；或者，皈依的食人者。”

‘And the ‘Washerwoman of Finchley Common,’ Mamma,’ said Lady Emily. ‘It is as well to begin soothingly at first.’
“还有‘芬奇利公地的洗衣妇’，妈妈，”艾米丽夫人说。 “最好一开始就以安抚的方式开始。”

‘Stop, my dear ladies,’ said Pitt, the diplomatist. ‘With every deference to the opinion of my beloved and respected Lady Southdown, I think it would be quite unadvisable to commence so early upon serious topics with Miss Crawley. Remember her delicate condition, and how little, how very little accustomed she has hitherto been to considerations connected with her immortal welfare.’
“停下来，亲爱的女士们，”外交官皮特说。 “尽管尊重我心爱和尊敬的绍斯唐夫人的意见，但我认为这么早就开始与克劳利小姐讨论严肃的话题是非常不明智的。请记住她脆弱的状况，以及迄今为止她是多么不习惯于考虑与她不朽的福利有关的事情。

‘Can we then begin too early, Pitt?’ said Lady Emily, rising with six little books already in her hand.
“皮特，我们能不能太早开始？”艾米丽女士说，她手里已经拿着六本小书站了起来。

‘If you begin abruptly, you will frighten her altogether. I know my aunt’s worldly nature so well as to be sure that any abrupt attempt at conversion will be the very worst means that can be employed for the welfare of that unfortunate lady. You will only frighten and annoy her. She will very likely fling the books away, and refuse all acquaintance with the givers.’
“如果你突然开始，你就会把她吓坏了。”我非常了解姨妈的世俗本性，因此可以确信，任何突然的皈依尝试都将是为那位不幸的女士谋福利的最糟糕的手段。你只会吓到她、惹恼她。她很可能会把书扔掉，并拒绝与捐赠者有任何联系。

‘You are as worldly as Miss Crawley, Pitt,’ said Lady Emily, tossing out of the room, her books in her hand.
“你和克劳利小姐一样世俗，皮特，”艾米丽夫人说着，手里拿着书，扔出了房间。

‘And I need not tell you, my dear Lady Southdown,’ Pitt continued, in a low voice, and without heeding the interruption, ‘how fatal a little want of gentleness and caution may be to any hopes which we may entertain with regard to the worldly possessions of my aunt. Remember she has seventy thousand pounds; think of her age, and her highly nervous and delicate condition; I know that she has destroyed the will which was made in my brother’s (Colonel Crawley’s) favour: it is by soothing that wounded spirit that we must lead it into the right path, and not by frightening it; and so I think you will agree with me that—that—‘
“我不需要告诉你，我亲爱的绍斯唐夫人，”皮特继续低声说道，没有理会别人的打扰，“稍微缺乏温柔和谨慎，对我们可能抱有的任何希望来说都是致命的。”我姨妈的世俗财产。记住她有七万英镑；想想她的年龄，以及她高度紧张和脆弱的状况；我知道她已经摧毁了为我哥哥（克劳利上校）所立的意志：我们必须通过抚慰受伤的精神来引导它走上正确的道路，而不是通过恐吓它；所以我想你会同意我的观点——那个——”

‘Of course, of course,’ Lady Southdown remarked. ‘Jane, my love, you need not send that note to Mr. Irons. If her health is such that discussions fatigue her, we will wait her amendment. I will call upon Miss Crawley tomorrow.’
“当然，当然，”绍斯唐夫人说道。 “简，亲爱的，你不必把那张纸条寄给艾恩斯先生。如果她的健康状况使讨论令她疲惫不堪，我们将等待她的修改。明天我会拜访克劳利小姐。

‘And if I might suggest, my sweet lady,’ Pitt said in a bland tone, ‘it would be as well not to take our precious Emily, who is too enthusiastic; but rather that you should be accompanied by our sweet and dear Lady Jane.’
“如果我可以建议的话，亲爱的女士，”皮特用温和的语气说道，“最好不要带走我们亲爱的艾米丽，她太热情了；但更确切地说，你应该由我们可爱的简女士陪伴。

‘Most certainly, Emily would ruin everything,’ Lady Southdown said; and this time agreed to forego her usual practice, which was, as we have said, before she bore down personally upon any individual whom she proposed to subjugate, to fire in a quantity of tracts upon the menaced party (as a charge of the French was always preceded by a furious cannonade). Lady Southdown, we say, for the sake of the invalid’s health, or for the sake of her soul’s ultimate welfare, or for the sake of her money, agreed to temporise.
“毫无疑问，艾米丽会毁掉一切，”绍斯唐夫人说；这次她同意放弃她通常的做法，正如我们已经说过的，在她亲自向她打算征服的任何人发起攻击之前，向受到威胁的一方发射大量小册子（作为法国人的指控）之前总是伴随着猛烈的炮轰）。我们说，索斯唐夫人为了病人的健康，或者为了她灵魂的最终福祉，或者为了她的钱，同意暂时行动。

The next day, the great Southdown female family carriage, with the Earl’s coronet and the lozenge (upon which the three lambs trottant argent upon the field vert of the Southdowns, were quartered with sable on a bend or, three snuff-mulls gules, the cognizance of the house of Binkie), drove up in state to Miss Crawley’s door, and the tall serious footman handed in to Mr. Bowls her Ladyship’s cards for Miss Crawley, and one likewise for Miss Briggs. By way of compromise, Lady Emily sent in a packet in the evening for the latter lady, containing copies of the ‘Washerwoman,’ and other mild and favourite tracts for Miss B.’s own perusal; and a few for the servants’ hall, viz.: ‘Crumbs from the Pantry,’ ‘The Frying Pan and the Fire,’ and ‘The Livery of Sin,’ of a much stronger kind.
第二天，伟大的南当母马车，带着伯爵的王冠和菱形（三只羔羊在南当的田野上奔跑，在马车上，在弯道上用紫貂分成四等分，或者，三只鼻烟毛红色，宾基的房子），威严地开车到克劳利小姐的门口，那位高大而严肃的男仆把她为克劳利小姐准备的夫人名片交给鲍尔斯先生，还有一张为布里格斯小姐准备的名片。作为妥协，艾米丽夫人在晚上给后者寄了一个包裹，里面装着《洗衣妇》的副本，以及其他温和且喜爱的小册子，供 B 小姐自己细读。还有一些是给仆人大厅的，即：“食品储藏室里的面包屑”、“煎锅和火”和“罪恶的制服”，这是一种更强烈的东西。

Chapter XXXIV
第三十四章


James Crawley’s Pipe Is Put Out
詹姆斯·克劳利的烟斗被扑灭

The amiable behaviour of Mr. Crawley, and Lady Jane’s kind reception of her, highly flattered Miss Briggs, who was enabled to speak a good word for the latter, after the cards of the Southdown family had been presented to Miss Crawley. A Countess’s card left personally too for her, Briggs, was not a little pleasing to the poor friendless companion. ‘What could Lady Southdown mean by leaving a card upon you, I wonder, Miss Briggs?’ said the republican Miss Crawley; upon which the companion meekly said ‘that she hoped there could be no harm in a lady of rank taking notice of a poor gentlewoman,’ and she put away this card in her work-box amongst her most cherished personal treasures. Furthermore, Miss Briggs explained how she had met Mr. Crawley walking with his cousin and long affianced bride the day before: and she told how kind and gentle-looking the lady was, and what a plain, not to say common, dress she had, all the articles of which, from the bonnet down to the boots, she described and estimated with female accuracy.
克劳利先生的和蔼可亲的举止，以及简夫人对她的热情接待，布里格斯小姐受宠若惊，在绍斯当家族的名片递交给克劳利小姐之后，布里格斯小姐为后者说了几句好话。伯爵夫人亲自给布里格斯留下的名片，让这个可怜的、没有朋友的同伴感到不高兴。 “我想知道，布里格斯小姐，绍斯唐夫人给你留一张卡片意味着什么？”共和党克劳利小姐说道。同伴温顺地说：“她希望一位有地位的女士注意到一位可怜的贵妇不会有什么坏处。”然后她把这张卡片放在她的工作箱里，作为她最珍视的个人珍宝。此外，布里格斯小姐还解释了前一天她是如何遇见克劳利先生与他的表弟和订婚已久的新娘一起散步的：她讲述了这位女士是多么善良和温柔，她穿的衣服是多么朴素，不能说是普通， ，其中的所有物品，从帽子到靴子，她都以女性的准确度进行了描述和估计。

Miss Crawley allowed Briggs to prattle on without interrupting her too much. As she got well, she was pining for society. Mr. Creamer, her medical man, would not hear of her returning to her old haunts and dissipation in London. The old spinster was too glad to find any companionship at Brighton, and not only were the cards acknowledged the very next day, but Pitt Crawley was graciously invited to come and see his aunt. He came, bringing with him Lady Southdown and her daughter. The dowager did not say a word about the state of Miss Crawley’s soul; but talked with much discretion about the weather: about the war and the downfall of the monster Bonaparte: and above all, about doctors, quacks, and the particular merits of Dr. Podgers, whom she then patronised.
克劳利小姐允许布里格斯喋喋不休，但没有过多打断她。当她康复后，她开始渴望社会。她的医生克里默先生不愿听到她回到伦敦的老地方和放荡的消息。这位老处女很高兴在布莱顿找到了任何陪伴，不仅第二天就得到了承认，而且皮特·克劳利还被慷慨地邀请来看望他的姨妈。他来了，还带来了索斯唐夫人和她的女儿。太后没有提及克劳利小姐的灵魂状况。但她很谨慎地谈论了天气：战争和怪物波拿巴的垮台：最重要的是，谈论了医生、江湖医生以及她当时光顾的波杰斯医生的特殊优点。

During their interview Pitt Crawley made a great stroke, and one which showed that, had his diplomatic career not been blighted by early neglect, he might have risen to a high rank in his profession. When the Countess Dowager of Southdown fell foul of the Corsican upstart, as the fashion was in those days, and showed that he was a monster stained with every conceivable crime, a coward and a tyrant not fit to live, one whose fall was predicted, &c., Pitt Crawley suddenly took up the cudgels in favour of the man of Destiny. He described the First Consul as he saw him at Paris at the peace of Amiens; when he, Pitt Crawley, had the gratification of making the acquaintance of the great and good Mr. Fox, a statesman whom, however much he might differ with him, it was impossible not to admire fervently—a statesman who had always had the highest opinion of the Emperor Napoleon. And he spoke in terms of the strongest indignation of the faithless conduct of the allies towards this dethroned monarch, who, after giving himself generously up to their mercy, was consigned to an ignoble and cruel banishment, while a bigoted Popish rabble was tyrannising over France in his stead.
在他们的采访中，皮特·克劳利做出了重大贡献，这表明，如果他的外交生涯没有受到早期忽视的影响，他可能会在职业生涯中晋升到很高的职位。当绍斯当伯爵夫人与科西嘉暴发户发生冲突时，就像当时流行的那样，并表明他是一个沾满各种可以想象的罪行的怪物，一个懦夫和一个不适合生活的暴君，一个注定会倒台的人，等等，皮特克劳利突然拿起棍棒支持命运之人。他描述了他在巴黎亚眠和平时见到的第一执政官。当他，皮特·克劳利，有幸结识了伟大而善良的福克斯先生时，这位政治家无论与他有多么不同，都不可能不受到热烈的钦佩——一位始终拥有最高尚的政治家。拿破仑皇帝的意见。他对盟国对这位被废黜的君主的不忠实行为表示最强烈的愤慨，这位被废黜的君主在慷慨地屈服于他们的怜悯之后，遭到了不光彩和残酷的流放，而顽固的​​教皇乌合之众正在对法国进行暴政。代替他。

This orthodox horror of Romish superstition saved Pitt Crawley in Lady Southdown’s opinion, whilst his admiration for Fox and Napoleon raised him immeasurably in Miss Crawley’s eyes. Her friendship with that defunct British statesman was mentioned when we first introduced her in this history. A true Whig, Miss Crawley had been in opposition all through the war, and though, to be sure, the downfall of the Emperor did not very much agitate the old lady, or his ill-treatment tend to shorten her life or natural rest, yet Pitt spoke to her heart when he lauded both her idols; and by that single speech made immense progress in her favour.
在绍斯唐夫人看来，这种对罗马迷信的正统恐惧拯救了皮特·克劳利，而他对福克斯和拿破仑的钦佩在克劳利小姐的眼中却得到了不可估量的提升。当我们第一次在这段历史中介绍她时，就提到了她与那位已故英国政治家的友谊。克劳利小姐是一个真正的辉格党人，在整个战争期间一直是反对派，尽管可以肯定的是，皇帝的垮台并没有让老太太感到太大的不安，或者他的虐待往往会缩短她的生命或自然休息，然而，当皮特赞扬她的两位偶像时，却说出了她的心声。通过这一次演讲，她取得了巨大的进步。

‘And what do you think, my dear?’ Miss Crawley said to the young lady, for whom she had taken a liking at first sight, as she always did for pretty and modest young people; though it must be owned her affections cooled as rapidly as they rose.
“亲爱的，你觉得怎么样？”克劳利小姐对这位年轻的女士说，她对她一见钟情，就像她总是对漂亮而谦虚的年轻人一样。尽管必须承认这一点，但她的感情随着上升的速度也迅速冷却。

Lady Jane blushed very much, and said ‘that she did not understand politics, which she left to wiser heads than hers; but though Mamma was, no doubt, correct, Mr. Crawley had spoken beautifully.’ And when the ladies were retiring at the conclusion of their visit, Miss Crawley hoped ‘Lady Southdown would be so kind as to send her Lady Jane sometimes, if she could be spared to come down and console a poor sick lonely old woman.’ This promise was graciously accorded, and they separated upon great terms of amity.
简夫人脸红了，说：“她不懂政治，把政治留给了比她聪明的人；她不懂政治，她不懂政治。” “虽然妈妈毫无疑问是正确的，但克劳利先生说得非常漂亮。”当女士们结束访问后准备退休时，克劳利小姐希望“绍斯当夫人能好心地有时送她简夫人，如果“她可以抽出时间来安慰一位可怜、生病、孤独的老妇人。”这个承诺得到了慷慨的许诺，他们在友好的气氛下分手了。

‘Don’t let Lady Southdown come again, Pitt,’ said the old lady. ‘She is stupid and pompous, like all your mother’s family, whom I never could endure. But bring that nice good-natured little Jane as often as ever you please.’ Pitt promised that he would do so. He did not tell the Countess of Southdown what opinion his aunt had formed of her Ladyship, who, on the contrary, thought that she had made a most delightful and majestic impression on Miss Crawley.
“皮特，别让绍斯当夫人再来，”老太太说。 “她愚蠢而自大，就像你母亲的所有家人一样，我永远无法忍受。但只要你愿意，就经常带那个善良的小简来。”皮特答应他会这样做。他没有告诉绍斯当伯爵夫人，他的姨妈对夫人有何看法，相反，伯爵夫人认为她给克劳利小姐留下了最令人愉快和威严的印象。

And so, nothing loth to comfort a sick lady, and perhaps not sorry in her heart to be freed now and again from the dreary spouting of the Reverend Bartholomew Irons, and the serious toadies who gathered round the footstool of the pompous Countess, her mamma, Lady Jane became a pretty constant visitor to Miss Crawley, accompanied her in her drives, and solaced many of her evenings. She was so naturally good and soft, that even Firkin was not jealous of her; and the gentle Briggs thought her friend was less cruel to her when kind Lady Jane was by. Towards her Ladyship Miss Crawley’s manners were charming. The old spinster told her a thousand anecdotes about her youth, talking to her in a very different strain from that in which she had been accustomed to converse with the godless little Rebecca; for there was that in Lady Jane’s innocence which rendered light talking impertinence before her, and Miss Crawley was too much of a gentlewoman to offend such purity. The young lady herself had never received kindness except from this old spinster, and her brother and father: and she repaid Miss Crawley’s engoument by artless sweetness and friendship.
因此，没有什么不愿意安慰一位生病的女士，或许她心里也不会感到遗憾，因为她时不时地摆脱了巴塞洛缪·艾恩斯牧师的沉闷的喋喋不休，以及聚集在她的妈妈、傲慢的伯爵夫人的脚凳周围的严肃的阿谀奉承者。之后，简夫人成了克劳利小姐的常客，在她开车时陪伴她，并在许多夜晚安慰她。她生性善良、温柔，就连菲尔金也不嫉妒她。温柔的布里格斯认为，当善良的简夫人在身边时，她的朋友对她就不那么残忍了。克劳利小姐对待夫人的举止很迷人。老处女给她讲了一千件关于她年轻时的轶事，用一种与她习惯于与不敬虔的小丽贝卡交谈的语气完全不同的语气。因为简夫人天真无邪，在她面前轻言轻语就显得无礼了，而克劳利小姐又是一位非常淑女的人，不会冒犯这样的纯洁。除了这位老处女、她的兄弟和父亲之外，这位年轻的女士从未接受过善意：她以天真无邪的甜蜜和友谊来回报克劳利小姐的盛情款待。

In the autumn evenings (when Rebecca was flaunting at Paris, the gayest among the gay conquerors there, and our Amelia, our dear wounded Amelia, ah! where was she?) Lady Jane would be sitting in Miss Crawley’s drawing-room singing sweetly to her, in the twilight, her little simple songs and hymns, while the sun was setting and the sea was roaring on the beach. The old spinster used to wake up when these ditties ceased, and ask for more. As for Briggs, and the quantity of tears of happiness which she now shed as she pretended to knit, and looked out at the splendid ocean darkling before the windows, and the lamps of heaven beginning more brightly to shine— who, I say can measure the happiness and sensibility of Briggs?
秋天的夜晚（当丽贝卡在巴黎炫耀时，她是那里同性恋征服者中最快乐的人，还有我们的阿米莉亚，我们亲爱的受伤的阿米莉亚，啊！她在哪里？）简夫人会坐在克劳利小姐的客厅里，甜甜地唱歌给她听。她，在暮色中，她简单的小歌和赞美诗，而太阳正在落山，大海在海滩上咆哮。当这些小曲停止时，老处女就会醒来，并要求更多。至于布里格斯，当她假装编织时，她流下了多少幸福的泪水，望着窗前漆黑的壮丽海洋，天上的灯火开始更加明亮地闪耀——我说谁能衡量布里格斯的幸福和感性？

Pitt meanwhile in the dining-room, with a pamphlet on the Corn Laws or a Missionary Register by his side, took that kind of recreation which suits romantic and unromantic men after dinner. He sipped Madeira: built castles in the air: thought himself a fine fellow: felt himself much more in love with Jane than he had been any time these seven years, during which their liaison had lasted without the slightest impatience on Pitt’s part—and slept a good deal. When the time for coffee came, Mr. Bowls used to enter in a noisy manner, and summon Squire Pitt, who would be found in the dark very busy with his pamphlet.
与此同时，皮特在餐厅里，身边放着一本关于《谷物法》或《传教士登记册》的小册子，进行着适合浪漫和不浪漫的男人饭后的那种娱乐活动。他喝着马德拉酒：建造了空中楼阁：认为自己是一个好人：感觉自己比这七年来任何时候都更爱简，在此期间，皮特没有丝毫不耐烦地保持着他们的关系——然后睡着了一个很好的协议。到了喝咖啡的时间，鲍尔斯先生常常吵闹地进来，并召唤乡绅皮特，皮特在黑暗中忙着写小册子。

‘I wish, my love, I could get somebody to play piquet with me,’ Miss Crawley said one night when this functionary made his appearance with the candles and the coffee. ‘Poor Briggs can no more play than an owl, she is so stupid’ (the spinster always took an opportunity of abusing Briggs before the servants); ‘and I think I should sleep better if I had my game.’
“亲爱的，我希望有人能和我一起玩皮球，”有一天晚上，当这位官员拿着蜡烛和咖啡出现时，克劳利小姐说道。 “可怜的布里格斯不会比猫头鹰更好玩，她太蠢了”（老处女总是趁机在仆人面前辱骂布里格斯）； “我想如果我有比赛的话我应该睡得更好。”

At this Lady Jane blushed to the tips of her little ears, and down to the ends of her pretty fingers; and when Mr. Bowls had quitted the room, and the door was quite shut, she said:
听到这里，简夫人的脸红到了她的小耳朵尖，一直红到了她漂亮的手指尖。当鲍尔斯先生退出房间，门关得很紧时，她说：

‘Miss Crawley, I can play a little. I used to—to play a little with poor dear papa.’
“克劳利小姐，我可以玩一点。”我曾经——和可怜的亲爱的爸爸一起玩一会儿。

‘Come and kiss me. Come and kiss me this instant, you dear good little soul,’ cried Miss Crawley in an ecstasy: and in this picturesque and friendly occupation Mr. Pitt found the old lady and the young one, when he came upstairs with him pamphlet in his hand. How she did blush all the evening, that poor Lady Jane!
‘过来吻我吧。就在这一刻，来吻我吧，你亲爱的善良的小灵魂，”克劳利小姐欣喜若狂地喊道。皮特先生在这风景如画、友好的职业中找到了老太太和年轻的女士，当他手里拿着小册子上楼时。那个可怜的简女士整个晚上都脸红得多么厉害啊！

It must not be imagined that Mr. Pitt Crawley’s artifices escaped the attention of his dear relations at the Rectory at Queen’s Crawley. Hampshire and Sussex lie very close together, and Mrs. Bute had friends in the latter county who took care to inform her of all, and a great deal more than all, that passed at Miss Crawley’s house at Brighton. Pitt was there more and more. He did not come for months together to the Hall, where his abominable old father abandoned himself completely to rum-and-water, and the odious society of the Horrocks family. Pitt’s success rendered the Rector’s family furious, and Mrs. Bute regretted more (though she confessed less) than ever her monstrous fault in so insulting Miss Briggs, and in being so haughty and parsimonious to Bowls and Firkin, that she had not a single person left in Miss Crawley’s household to give her information of what took place there. ‘It was all Bute’s collarbone,’ she persisted in saying; ‘if that had not broke, I never would have left her. I am a martyr to duty and to your odious unclerical habit of hunting, Bute.’
千万不要想象皮特·克劳利先生的诡计逃过了他在皇后克劳利教区长教区的亲爱的亲戚们的注意。汉普郡和苏塞克斯郡距离很近，布特夫人在苏塞克斯郡有朋友，他们很细心地告诉她在布莱顿克劳利小姐家里发生的一切，而且比所有事情都重要。皮特越来越频繁地出现在那里。他已经好几个月没有一起去大厅了，在那里，他可恶的老父亲完全沉浸在朗姆酒和霍罗克斯家族令人厌恶的社会中。皮特的成功使校长的家人勃然大怒，布特夫人比以往任何时候都更加后悔（尽管她承认的较少）她如此侮辱布里格斯小姐，并对鲍尔斯和菲尔金如此傲慢和吝啬，以至于她没有一个人。离开克劳利小姐的家，向她通报那里发生的事情。 “那全是布特的锁骨，”她坚持说； “如果那没有破裂，我永远不会离开她。我是责任的烈士，也是你那可憎的、不法分子的狩猎习惯的烈士，布特。

‘Hunting; nonsense! It was you that frightened her, Barbara,’ the divine interposed. ‘You’re a clever woman, but you’ve got a devil of a temper; and you’re a screw with your money, Barbara.’
'打猎;废话！是你吓坏了她，芭芭拉，”神灵插话道。 ‘你是个聪明的女人，但脾气却很暴躁；芭芭拉，你真是个花钱大手大脚的人。”

‘You’d have been screwed in gaol, Bute, if I had not kept your money.’
“布特，如果我没有保留你的钱，你就会被关进监狱。”

‘I know I would, my dear,’ said the Rector, good-naturedly. ‘You ARE a clever woman, but you manage too well, you know”: and the pious man consoled himself with a big glass of port.
“我知道我会的，亲爱的，”校长和蔼地说。 “你是个聪明的女人，但你知道，你处理得太好了”：虔诚的男人喝了一大杯波特酒安慰自己。

‘What the deuce can she find in that spooney of a Pitt Crawley?’ he continued. ‘The fellow has not pluck enough to say Bo to a goose. I remember when Rawdon, who is a man, and be hanged to him, used to flog him round the stables as if he was a whipping-top: and Pitt would go howling home to his ma—ha, ha! Why, either of my boys would whop him with one hand. Jim says he’s remembered at Oxford as Miss Crawley still—the spooney.
“她能在皮特·克劳利的那个勺子里找到什么东西呢？”他继续说道。 ‘这家伙的勇气还不够，无法对鹅说“Bo”。我记得罗登是个男人，被他吊死了，他经常在马厩里鞭打他，就像他是一根鞭子一样：皮特会嚎叫着回家，哈，哈！为什么，我的两个儿子都会用一只手打他。吉姆说他在牛津的记忆中仍然是克劳利小姐——那个勺子。

‘I say, Barbara,’ his reverence continued, after a pause.
“我说，芭芭拉，”停顿了一下，他继续表示敬意。

‘What?’ said Barbara, who was biting her nails, and drumming the table.
“什么？”芭芭拉一边咬着指甲，一边敲着桌子。

‘I say, why not send Jim over to Brighton to see if he can do anything with the old lady. He’s very near getting his degree, you know. He’s only been plucked twice—so was I—but he’s had the advantages of Oxford and a university education. He knows some of the best chaps there. He pulls stroke in the Boniface boat. He’s a handsome feller. D—it, ma’am, let’s put him on the old woman, hey, and tell him to thrash Pitt if he says anything. Ha, ha, ha!
“我说，为什么不派吉姆去布莱顿看看他能不能对老太太做点什么。”你知道，他即将获得学位。他只被选拔过两次——我也是——但他拥有牛津大学和大学教育的优势。他认识那里一些最好的人。他在博尼法斯号船上划桨。他是一个英俊的家伙。该——它，女士，让我们把他放在老太婆身上，嘿，告诉他，如果他说了什么，就殴打皮特。哈哈哈！

‘Jim might go down and see her, certainly,’ the housewife said; adding with a sigh, ‘If we could but get one of the girls into the house; but she could never endure them, because they are not pretty!’ Those unfortunate and well-educated women made themselves heard from the neighbouring drawing-room, where they were thrumming away, with hard fingers, an elaborate music-piece on the pianoforte, as their mother spoke; and indeed, they were at music, or at backboard, or at geography, or at history, the whole day long. But what avail all these accomplishments, in Vanity Fair, to girls who are short, poor, plain, and have a bad complexion? Mrs. Bute could think of nobody but the Curate to take one of them off her hands; and Jim coming in from the stable at this minute, through the parlour window, with a short pipe stuck in his oilskin cap, he and his father fell to talking about odds on the St. Leger, and the colloquy between the Rector and his wife ended.
“吉姆当然可以下去看看她，”家庭主妇说。叹了口气，补充道：“要是我们能把其中一个女孩带进屋就好了！”但她永远无法忍受它们，因为它们不漂亮！”那些不幸但受过良好教育的女人从隔壁的客厅里传来了她们的声音，她们在那里用坚硬的手指在钢琴上弹奏着一首精美的乐曲，正如他们的母亲所说；事实上，他们整天都在研究音乐，或者篮板，或者地理，或者历史。但这些在《名利场》中取得的成就，对于身材矮小、贫穷、相貌平平、肤色不好的女孩来说有什么用呢？布特夫人想，除了神甫之外，没有人可以从她手上拿走其中一件。吉姆此时从马厩里进来，油布帽上插着一根短管，透过客厅的窗户，他和父亲开始谈论圣莱杰河上的争斗，以及教区长和他妻子之间的对话结束了。

Mrs. Bute did not augur much good to the cause from the sending of her son James as an ambassador, and saw him depart in rather a despairing mood. Nor did the young fellow himself, when told what his mission was to be, expect much pleasure or benefit from it; but he was consoled by the thought that possibly the old lady would give him some handsome remembrance of her, which would pay a few of his most pressing bills at the commencement of the ensuing Oxford term, and so took his place by the coach from Southampton, and was safely landed at Brighton on the same evening? with his portmanteau, his favourite bull-dog Towzer, and an immense basket of farm and garden produce, from the dear Rectory folks to the dear Miss Crawley. Considering it was too late to disturb the invalid lady on the first night of his arrival, he put up at an inn, and did not wait upon Miss Crawley until a late hour in the noon of next day.
布特夫人并没有因为派她的儿子詹姆斯出任大使而对这一事业有什么好处，她看到他带着相当绝望的心情离开。当这个年轻人被告知他的使命是什么时，他自己也没有期望从中得到太多的乐趣或好处；但一想到这位老太太可能会给他留下一些美好的回忆，这让他感到安慰，这将在接下来的牛津学期开始时支付他一些最紧迫的账单，因此他乘坐了来自南安普顿的教练。 ，并于当晚安全降落在布莱顿？带着他的混装，他最喜欢的斗牛犬托泽，还有一大篮子农产品和园艺产品，从亲爱的教区长的人们到亲爱的克劳利小姐。考虑到到达的第一天晚上已经太晚了，无法打扰那位病弱的女士，他就在一家旅馆住了下来，直到第二天中午很晚才接待克劳利小姐。

James Crawley, when his aunt had last beheld him, was a gawky lad, at that uncomfortable age when the voice varies between an unearthly treble and a preternatural bass; when the face not uncommonly blooms out with appearances for which Rowland’s Kalydor is said to act as a cure; when boys are seen to shave furtively with their sister’s scissors, and the sight of other young women produces intolerable sensations of terror in them; when the great hands and ankles protrude a long way from garments which have grown too tight for them; when their presence after dinner is at once frightful to the ladies, who are whispering in the twilight in the drawing-room, and inexpressibly odious to the gentlemen over the mahogany, who are restrained from freedom of intercourse and delightful interchange of wit by the presence of that gawky innocence; when, at the conclusion of the second glass, papa says, ‘Jack, my boy, go out and see if the evening holds up,’ and the youth, willing to be free, yet hurt at not being yet a man, quits the incomplete banquet. James, then a hobbadehoy, was now become a young man, having had the benefits of a university education, and acquired the inestimable polish which is gained by living in a fast set at a small college, and contracting debts, and being rusticated, and being plucked.
詹姆斯·克劳利，当他姨妈最后一次见到他时，他是一个笨拙的小伙子，在那个令人不舒服的年龄，声音在超凡脱俗的高音和超自然的低音之间变化。当脸上出现一种常见的现象时，据说罗兰的卡利多可以治愈这种情况；当男孩们被看见用姐姐的剪刀偷偷地刮胡子时，当看到其他年轻妇女时，他们会产生难以忍受的恐惧感；当大手和脚踝从太紧的衣服中伸出很长一段距离时；晚饭后，他们的出现立刻让女士们感到害怕，她们在暮色中在客厅里窃窃私语，而对于桃花心木的绅士们来说，则感到难以形容的厌恶，因为他们的存在限制了交往的自由和愉快的智慧交流那种笨拙的纯真；当第二杯酒结束时，爸爸说：“杰克，我的孩子，出去看看这个夜晚是否能持续下去。”年轻人愿意自由，但因还没有成为一个男人而受到伤害，退出了不完整的宴会。詹姆斯当时还是一名流浪汉，现在已经成为了一个年轻人，他接受了大学教育，并获得了无法估量的优雅，这是通过在一所小学院的快速生活中获得的，并承担债务，并成为乡下人，并且被拔毛。

He was a handsome lad, however, when he came to present himself to his aunt at Brighton, and good looks were always a title to the fickle old lady’s favour. Nor did his blushes and awkwardness take away from it: she was pleased with these healthy tokens of the young gentleman’s ingenuousness.
然而，当他来布莱顿向姨妈介绍自己时，他是一个英俊的小伙子，英俊的外表总是博得这位善变的老太太青睐的称号。他的脸红和尴尬也没有影响他的表现：她对这位年轻绅士的纯真健康的表现感到满意。

He said ‘he had come down for a couple of days to see a man of his college, and—and to pay my respects to you, Ma’am, and my father’s and mother’s, who hope you are well.’
他说，“他来这里几天是为了见见他大学里的一个人，并且向你，女士，以及我的父母致以敬意，他们希望你一切都好。”

Pitt was in the room with Miss Crawley when the lad was announced, and looked very blank when his name was mentioned. The old lady had plenty of humour, and enjoyed her correct nephew’s perplexity. She asked after all the people at the Rectory with great interest; and said she was thinking of paying them a visit. She praised the lad to his face, and said he was well-grown and very much improved, and that it was a pity his sisters had not some of his good looks; and finding, on inquiry, that he had taken up his quarters at an hotel, would not hear of his stopping there, but bade Mr. Bowls send for Mr. James Crawley’s things instantly; ‘and hark ye, Bowls,’ she added, with great graciousness, ‘you will have the goodness to pay Mr. James’s bill.’
当小伙子被宣布时，皮特正和克劳利小姐在房间里，当提到他的名字时，皮特显得很茫然。老太太很有幽默感，很喜欢她侄子的困惑。她饶有兴趣地询问教区长官邸里的所有人。并说她正在考虑去拜访他们。她当面夸奖这小伙子，说他长得很好，进步很大，可惜他的姐妹们没有他的一些美貌。经询问，发现他住在一家旅馆里，不肯听他停在那里的消息，而是吩咐鲍尔斯先生立即派人去取詹姆斯·克劳利先生的东西。 “听着，鲍尔斯，”她非常亲切地补充道，“你会很乐意支付詹姆斯先生的账单的。”

She flung Pitt a look of arch triumph, which caused that diplomatist almost to choke with envy. Much as he had ingratiated himself with his aunt, she had never yet invited him to stay under her roof, and here was a young whipper-snapper, who at first sight was made welcome there.
她向皮特投去一个胜利的眼神，这让这位外交官几乎嫉妒得窒息。尽管他很讨好他的姨妈，但她从未邀请他住在她的屋檐下，而这里是一个年轻的吹笛者，一见钟情，他就受到了欢迎。

‘I beg your pardon, sir,’ says Bowls, advancing with a profound bow; ‘what ‘otel, sir, shall Thomas fetch the luggage from?’
“请您原谅，先生。”鲍尔斯一边深深鞠了一躬，一边说道。 “先生，托马斯应该去哪家酒店取行李？”

‘O, dam,’ said young James, starting up, as if in some alarm, ‘I’ll go.’
“哦，妈的，”年轻的詹姆斯说着，似乎受到了惊吓，站了起来，“我要走了。”

‘What!’ said Miss Crawley.
“什么！”克劳利小姐说。

‘The Tom Cribb’s Arms,’ said James, blushing deeply.
“汤姆·克里布的手臂，”詹姆斯说，脸红得很厉害。

Miss Crawley burst out laughing at this title. Mr. Bowls gave one abrupt guffaw, as a confidential servant of the family, but choked the rest of the volley; the diplomatist only smiled.
克劳利小姐听到这个标题哈哈大笑。鲍尔斯先生作为这家人的心腹仆人，突然大笑了一声，但接着就忍住了。外交官只是笑了笑。

‘I—I didn’t know any better,’ said James, looking down. ‘I’ve never been here before; it was the coachman told me.’ The young storyteller! The fact is, that on the Southampton coach, the day previous, James Crawley had met the Tutbury Pet, who was coming to Brighton to make a match with the Rottingdean Fibber; and enchanted by the Pet’s conversation, had passed the evening in company with that scientific man and his friends, at the inn in question.
“我——我不知道更多了，”詹姆斯低着头说道。 “我以前从未来过这里；这是车夫告诉我的。”年轻的说书人！事实是，就在前一天，詹姆斯·克劳利在南安普顿的教练席上见到了即将来到布莱顿与罗廷迪恩·菲伯进行比赛的塔特伯里宠物；被宠物的谈话迷住了，与那个科学家和他的朋友们一起在那个旅馆里度过了一个晚上。

‘I—I’d best go and settle the score,’ James continued. ‘Couldn’t think of asking you, Ma’am,’ he added, generously.
“我——我最好去算账，”詹姆斯继续说道。 “夫人，我没想到要问你，”他慷慨地补充道。

This delicacy made his aunt laugh the more.
这美味让姑姑笑得更开心了。

‘Go and settle the bill, Bowls,’ she said, with a wave of her hand, ‘and bring it to me.’
“去结账吧，鲍尔斯，”她挥了挥手，“然后把它拿给我。”

Poor lady, she did not know what she had done! ‘There—there’s a little dawg,’ said James, looking frightfully guilty. ‘I’d best go for him. He bites footmen’s calves.’
可怜的女士，她不知道自己做了什么！ “那儿——那儿有一个小混蛋，”詹姆斯说道，看上去非常内疚。 ‘我最好去找他。他咬男仆的小腿。

All the party cried out with laughing at this description; even Briggs and Lady Jane, who was sitting mute during the interview between Miss Crawley and her nephew: and Bowls, without a word, quitted the room.
众人听了这番描述，都哈哈大笑起来。就连布里格斯和简夫人也在克劳利小姐和她侄子的采访中默不作声地坐着：鲍尔斯一言不发地离开了房间。

Still, by way of punishing her elder nephew, Miss Crawley persisted in being gracious to the young Oxonian. There were no limits to her kindness or her compliments when they once began. She told Pitt he might come to dinner, and insisted that James should accompany her in her drive, and paraded him solemnly up and down the cliff, on the back seat of the barouche. During all this excursion, she condescended to say civil things to him: she quoted Italian and French poetry to the poor bewildered lad, and persisted that he was a fine scholar, and was perfectly sure he would gain a gold medal, and be a Senior Wrangler.
尽管如此，为了惩罚她的大侄子，克劳利小姐仍然坚持对年轻的奥克森人仁慈。一旦开始，她的善意和赞美就没有止境。她告诉皮特他可能会来吃晚饭，并坚持让詹姆斯陪她开车，并庄严地带着他在四轮马车的后座上爬上爬下悬崖。在整个旅行期间，她屈尊对他说客气的话：她向这个可怜的困惑的小伙子引用了意大利和法国的诗歌，并坚持认为他是一位优秀的学者，并且完全确信他会获得一枚金牌，并成为一名高级学生。牧马人。

‘Haw, haw,’ laughed James, encouraged by these compliments; ‘Senior Wrangler, indeed; that’s at the other shop.’
“哈哈，哈哈，”詹姆斯在这些赞美的鼓励下笑了起来。 “确实是高级牧马人；那是在另一家商店。”

‘What is the other shop, my dear child?’ said the lady.
“亲爱的孩子，另一家商店是什么？”那位女士问道。

‘Senior Wranglers at Cambridge, not Oxford,’ said the scholar, with a knowing air; and would probably have been more confidential, but that suddenly there appeared on the cliff in a tax-cart, drawn by a bang-up pony, dressed in white flannel coats, with mother-of-pearl buttons, his friends the Tutbury Pet and the Rottingdean Fibber, with three other gentlemen of their acquaintance, who all saluted poor James there in the carriage as he sate. This incident damped the ingenuous youth’s spirits, and no word of yea or nay could he be induced to utter during the rest of the drive.
“高级牧马人是在剑桥，而不是牛津，”这位学者带着一种会意的神情说道。本来可能会更保密，但突然间，一辆税车出现在悬崖上，由一匹漂亮的小马拉着，穿着白色法兰绒外套，上面有珍珠母纽扣，他的朋友塔特伯里宠物和罗廷丁·费伯和另外三位他们认识的绅士，当可怜的詹姆斯坐在马车上时，他们都向他致敬。这件事挫伤了这个天真的年轻人的情绪，在接下来的车程中，他无法说出任何“是”或“不是”的话。

On his return he found his room prepared, and his portmanteau ready, and might have remarked that Mr. Bowls’s countenance, when the latter conducted him to his apartments, wore a look of gravity, wonder, and compassion. But the thought of Mr. Bowls did not enter his head. He was deploring the dreadful predicament in which he found himself, in a house full of old women, jabbering French and Italian, and talking poetry to him. ‘Reglarly up a tree, by jingo!’ exclaimed the modest boy, who could not face the gentlest of her sex—not even Briggs—when she began to talk to him; whereas, put him at Iffley Lock, and he could out-slang the boldest bargeman.
回来后，他发现自己的房间已经准备好了，随身携带的行李也准备好了，他可能会注意到，当鲍尔斯先生把他领到自己的公寓时，他的脸上带着严肃、惊奇和同情的表情。但他的脑子里并没有想到鲍尔斯先生。他对自己所处的可怕困境感到悲叹，在一间满是老妇人的房子里，他们叽叽喳喳地说着法语和意大利语，还和他谈论诗歌。 “好好爬上树吧，天哪！”这个谦虚的男孩喊道，当她开始跟他说话时，他无法面对最温柔的性别——甚至布里格斯。然而，如果把他放在伊夫利船闸，他的俚语就能胜过最大胆的船夫。

At dinner, James appeared choking in a white neckcloth, and had the honour of handing my Lady Jane downstairs, while Briggs and Mr. Crawley followed afterwards, conducting the old lady, with her apparatus of bundles, and shawls, and cushions. Half of Briggs’s time at dinner was spent in superintending the invalid’s comfort, and in cutting up chicken for her fat spaniel. James did not talk much, but he made a point of asking all the ladies to drink wine, and accepted Mr. Crawley’s challenge, and consumed the greater part of a bottle of champagne which Mr. Bowls was ordered to produce in his honour. The ladies having withdrawn, and the two cousins being left together, Pitt, the ex-diplomatist, be came very communicative and friendly. He asked after James’s career at college—what his prospects in life were—hoped heartily he would get on; and, in a word, was frank and amiable. James’s tongue unloosed with the port, and he told his cousin his life, his prospects, his debts, his troubles at the little-go, and his rows with the proctors, filling rapidly from the bottles before him, and flying from Port to Madeira with joyous activity.
晚餐时，詹姆斯戴着一条白色围巾，显得有些哽咽，他很荣幸地把我的简夫人送到了楼下，而布里格斯和克劳利先生随后跟在后面，引导着老太太，带着她的包裹、披肩和垫子。布里格斯晚餐的一半时间都花在了照顾病人的舒适度上，以及为她那只肥胖的西班牙猎犬切鸡肉上。詹姆斯话不多，但他特意请所有女士喝酒，并接受了克劳利先生的挑战，并喝掉了鲍尔斯先生奉命为他酿造的一瓶香槟。女士们退出后，两个表兄弟留在了一起，前外交官皮特变得非常健谈和友善。他询问詹姆斯的大学生涯——他的人生前景如何——衷心希望他能继续前进；总而言之，他是坦率、和蔼可亲的。詹姆斯的舌头随着波特酒而松开，他告诉他的表弟他的生活，他的前景，他的债务，他在小路上的麻烦，以及他与监考官的争吵，他迅速从他面前的瓶子里装满，然后从波特飞往马德拉与欢乐的活动。

‘The chief pleasure which my aunt has,’ said Mr. Crawley, filling his glass, ‘is that people should do as they like in her house. This is Liberty Hall, James, and you can’t do Miss Crawley a greater kindness than to do as you please, and ask for what you will. I know you have all sneered at me in the country for being a Tory. Miss Crawley is liberal enough to suit any fancy. She is a Republican in principle, and despises everything like rank or title.’
“我姨妈最大的乐趣，”克劳利先生一边倒酒一边说道，“人们可以在她家里为所欲为。”这里是自由厅，詹姆斯，你对克劳利小姐最大的仁慈就是随心所欲，随心所欲。我知道你们在国内都嘲笑我是保守党人。克劳利小姐很慷慨，可以满足任何幻想。她原则上是一名共和党人，鄙视诸如军衔或头衔之类的一切。

‘Why are you going to marry an Earl’s daughter?’ said James.
“你为什么要娶伯爵的女儿？”詹姆斯说。

‘My dear friend, remember it is not poor Lady Jane’s fault that she is well born,’ Pitt replied, with a courtly air. ‘She cannot help being a lady. Besides, I am a Tory, you know.’
“我亲爱的朋友，请记住，可怜的简夫人出身高贵，这并不是她的错，”皮特带着一种宫廷的神气回答道。 “她无法不成为一位女士。此外，你知道，我是保守党人。

‘Oh, as for that,’ said Jim, ‘there’s nothing like old blood; no, dammy, nothing like it. I’m none of your radicals. I know what it is to be a gentleman, dammy. See the chaps in a boat-race; look at the fellers in a fight; aye, look at a dawg killing rats—which is it wins? the good-blooded ones. Get some more port, Bowls, old boy, whilst I buzz this bottle-here. What was I asaying?’
“哦，至于这一点，”吉姆说，“没有什么比古老的血统更好的了；”不，妈的，没有什么比这更好的了。我不是你们中的激进分子。我知道什么是绅士，亲爱的。观看赛艇比赛中的小伙子们；看看打架的人；是啊，看看一只狗杀老鼠——哪一个赢了？善良的人。再来点波特酒，碗，老伙计，我在这儿嗡嗡叫这瓶酒。我刚才说什么？

‘I think you were speaking of dogs killing rats,’ Pitt remarked mildly, handing his cousin the decanter to ‘buzz.’
“我认为你说的是​​狗杀死老鼠，”皮特温和地说，并将醒酒器递给他的表弟，让其“嗡嗡”响。

‘Killing rats was I? Well, Pitt, are you a sporting man? Do you want to see a dawg as CAN kill a rat? If you do, come down with me to Tom Corduroy’s, in Castle Street Mews, and I’ll show you such a bullterrier as—Pooh! gammon,’ cried James, bursting out laughing at his own absurdity—‘YOU don’t care about a dawg or rat; it’s all nonsense. I’m blest if I think you know the difference between a dog and a duck.’
‘我是在杀老鼠吗？那么，皮特，你是一个运动爱好者吗？你想看到一只能杀死老鼠的狗吗？如果你愿意，跟我一起去位于城堡街马厩的汤姆·灯芯绒店吧，我会给你看这样一只斗牛犬——呸！好吧，”詹姆斯大声喊道，对自己的荒谬大笑起来——“你不在乎一只狗或老鼠；你不在乎。”都是废话。如果我认为你知道狗和鸭子之间的区别，我会很高兴。

‘No; by the way,’ Pitt continued with increased blandness, ‘it was about blood you were talking, and the personal advantages which people derive from patrician birth. Here’s the fresh bottle.’
'不;顺便说一句，”皮特继续说道，语气越来越温和，“你所说的是血统，以及人们从贵族出身中获得的个人优势。这是新鲜的瓶子。

‘Blood’s the word,’ said James, gulping the ruby fluid down. ‘Nothing like blood, sir, in hosses, dawgs, AND men. Why, only last term, just before I was rusticated, that is, I mean just before I had the measles, ha, ha—there was me and Ringwood of Christchurch, Bob Ringwood, Lord Cinqbars’ son, having our beer at the Bell at Blenheim, when the Banbury bargeman offered to fight either of us for a bowl of punch. I couldn’t. My arm was in a sling; couldn’t even take the drag down—a brute of a mare of mine had fell with me only two days before, out with the Abingdon, and I thought my arm was broke. Well, sir, I couldn’t finish him, but Bob had his coat off at once—he stood up to the Banbury man for three minutes, and polished him off in four rounds easy. Gad, how he did drop, sir, and what was it? Blood, sir, all blood.’
“血就是这个词，”詹姆斯说着，吞下了红宝石般的液体。 “先生，在马匹、狗和人身上，没有什么比血更好的了。哦，就在上学期，就在我被下乡之前，也就是说，就在我得麻疹之前，哈，哈——当时我和基督城的林伍德，鲍勃·林伍德，辛克巴尔勋爵的儿子，在贝尔喝啤酒在布伦海姆，班伯里的船夫提出要和我们中的任何一个打一碗潘趣酒。我不能。我的手臂吊着吊带；我什至无法承受这种拖累——就在两天前，我的一匹残暴的母马在阿宾登号上与我一起摔倒了，我以为我的手臂摔断了。好吧，先生，我没能解决他，但鲍勃立刻脱掉了外套——他与班伯里人对抗了三分钟，并在四回合内​​轻松击败了他。嘎德，他是怎么摔下来的，先生，那是什么？血，先生，全是血。”

‘You don’t drink, James,’ the ex-attache continued. ‘In my time at Oxford, the men passed round the bottle a little quicker than you young fellows seem to do.’
“你不喝酒，詹姆斯，”前随员继续说道。 “我在牛津的时候，人们传递瓶子的速度比你们这些年轻人似乎要快一些。”

‘Come, come,’ said James, putting his hand to his nose and winking at his cousin with a pair of vinous eyes, ‘no jokes, old boy; no trying it on on me. You want to trot me out, but it’s no go. In vino veritas, old boy. Mars, Bacchus, Apollo virorum, hey? I wish my aunt would send down some of this to the governor; it’s a precious good tap.’
“来吧，来吧，”詹姆斯说着，把手放在鼻子上，用一双酒红色的眼睛对他的表弟眨了眨眼，“别开玩笑了，老男孩；别开玩笑了。”不要在我身上试穿。你想把我赶出去，但不行。维诺真理，老男孩。火星、巴克斯、阿波罗病毒，嘿？我希望我姨妈能把其中一些寄给州长；这是一个珍贵的好水龙头。

‘You had better ask her,’ Machiavel continued, ‘or make the best of your time now. What says the bard? ‘Nunc vino pellite curas, Cras ingens iterabimus aequor,’’ and the Bacchanalian, quoting the above with a House of Commons air, tossed off nearly a thimbleful of wine with an immense flourish of his glass.
“你最好问她，”马基雅维利继续说道，“或者充分利用你现在的时间。吟游诗人怎么说？ “Nunc vino pellite curas，Cras ingens iterabimus aequor”，这位酒神教徒以下议院的口吻引用了上述内容，并挥舞着他的酒杯，喝掉了近顶针的葡萄酒。

At the Rectory, when the bottle of port wine was opened after dinner, the young ladies had each a glass from a bottle of currant wine. Mrs. Bute took one glass of port, honest James had a couple commonly, but as his father grew very sulky if he made further inroads on the bottle, the good lad generally refrained from trying for more, and subsided either into the currant wine, or to some private gin-and-water in the stables, which he enjoyed in the company of the coachman and his pipe. At Oxford, the quantity of wine was unlimited, but the quality was inferior: but when quantity and quality united as at his aunt’s house, James showed that he could appreciate them indeed; and hardly needed any of his cousin’s encouragement in draining off the second bottle supplied by Mr. Bowls.
在教区长官邸，晚饭后打开一瓶波特酒时，年轻女士们每人喝了一杯醋栗酒。布特夫人喝了一杯波特酒，诚实的詹姆斯通常喝两杯，但由于他的父亲如果再喝一杯就会变得很生气，这个好小伙子通常不会再尝试更多，而是沉入了醋栗酒中，或者在马厩里喝一些私人杜松子酒和水，他在车夫和他的烟斗的陪伴下享用。在牛津，葡萄酒的数量是无限的，但质量较差：但当数量和质量结合在一起时，就像在他姨妈家一样，詹姆斯表明他确实可以欣赏它们；他的父亲在他的姨妈家里找到了他的父亲。几乎不需要他表弟的任何鼓励，他就喝完了鲍尔斯先生提供的第二瓶酒。

When the time for coffee came, however, and for a return to the ladies, of whom he stood in awe, the young gentleman’s agreeable frankness left him, and he relapsed into his usual surly timidity; contenting himself by saying yes and no, by scowling at Lady Jane, and by upsetting one cup of coffee during the evening.
然而，当喝咖啡的时间到了，回到他所敬畏的女士们身边时，这位年轻绅士的愉快的坦率就消失了，他又恢复了往常的乖戾胆怯。满足于说“是”和“不”，对简夫人皱起眉头，以及在晚上打翻一杯咖啡。

If he did not speak he yawned in a pitiable manner, and his presence threw a damp upon the modest proceedings of the evening, for Miss Crawley and Lady Jane at their piquet, and Miss Briggs at her work, felt that his eyes were wildly fixed on them, and were uneasy under that maudlin look.
如果他不说话，他就会可怜兮兮地打哈欠，他的出现给当晚的平淡气氛蒙上了一层阴影，因为克劳利小姐和简夫人在生气，布里格斯小姐在工作，都觉得他的眼睛疯狂地盯着在他们身上，在那种伤感的表情下感到不安。

‘He seems a very silent, awkward, bashful lad,’ said Miss Crawley to Mr. Pitt.
“他看起来是一个非常沉默、笨拙、害羞的小伙子，”克劳利小姐对皮特先生说。

‘He is more communicative in men’s society than with ladies,’ Machiavel dryly replied: perhaps rather disappointed that the port wine had not made Jim speak more.
“他在男性社会中比在女性社会中更善于交际，”马基雅维尔干巴巴地回答道：也许对波特酒没有让吉姆多说话感到失望。

He had spent the early part of the next morning in writing home to his mother a most flourishing account of his reception by Miss Crawley. But ah! he little knew what evils the day was bringing for him, and how short his reign of favour was destined to be. A circumstance which Jim had forgotten—a trivial but fatal circumstance—had taken place at the Cribb’s Arms on the night before he had come to his aunt’s house. It was no other than this— Jim, who was always of a generous disposition, and when in his cups especially hospitable, had in the course of the night treated the Tutbury champion and the Rottingdean man, and their friends, twice or thrice to the refreshment of gin-and-water—so that no less than eighteen glasses of that fluid at eightpence per glass were charged in Mr. James Crawley’s bill. It was not the amount of eightpences, but the quantity of gin which told fatally against poor James’s character, when his aunt’s butler, Mr. Bowls, went down at his mistress’s request to pay the young gentleman’s bill. The landlord, fearing lest the account should be refused altogether, swore solemnly that the young gent had consumed personally every farthing’s worth of the liquor: and Bowls paid the bill finally, and showed it on his return home to Mrs. Firkin, who was shocked at the frightful prodigality of gin; and took the bill to Miss Briggs as accountant-general; who thought it her duty to mention the circumstance to her principal, Miss Crawley.
第二天一大早，他就给他母亲写了一篇关于克劳利小姐接待他的精彩报告。但是啊！他几乎不知道这一天会给他带来什么祸害，也不知道他的恩宠统治注定是多么短暂。吉姆已经忘记了一件小事，但却是致命的一件事，发生在他来姨妈家的前一天晚上，发生在克里布阿姆斯酒店。正是这样——吉姆，他总是性情慷慨，在他的杯子里特别好客，在晚上招待了塔特伯里冠军和罗廷迪恩人和他们的朋友，两三次到杜松子酒和水的茶点——这样一来，詹姆斯·克劳利先生的账单上就包含了不少于十八杯这种液体，每杯八便士。当他姨妈的管家鲍尔斯先生应情妇的要求为这位年轻绅士付账时，他姨妈的管家鲍尔斯先生下楼去支付这位年轻绅士的账单时，这并不是八便士的数量，而是杜松子酒的数量，这对可怜的詹姆斯的性格产生了致命的打击。房东担心帐单会被完全拒绝，庄严地发誓，这位年轻绅士已经亲自喝掉了每一个一文钱的酒：鲍尔斯最终付了帐单，并在回到家时向弗金夫人展示了它，弗金夫人大吃一惊。杜松子酒的挥霍得可怕；并将该法案交给总会计师布里格斯小姐；她认为她有责任向校长克劳利小姐提及此事。

Had he drunk a dozen bottles of claret, the old spinster could have pardoned him. Mr. Fox and Mr. Sheridan drank claret. Gentlemen drank claret. But eighteen glasses of gin consumed among boxers in an ignoble pot-house—it was an odious crime and not to be pardoned readily. Everything went against the lad: he came home perfumed from the stables, whither he had been to pay his dog Towzer a visit— and whence he was going to take his friend out for an airing, when he met Miss Crawley and her wheezy Blenheim spaniel, which Towzer would have eaten up had not the Blenheim fled squealing to the protection of Miss Briggs, while the atrocious master of the bulldog stood laughing at the horrible persecution.
如果他喝下十几瓶红葡萄酒，老处女就可以原谅他了。福克斯先生和谢里登先生喝了红葡萄酒。先生们喝红葡萄酒。但是，在一家不光彩的酒馆里，拳击手们喝了十八杯杜松子酒——这是一种可憎的罪行，不容轻易宽恕。一切都对这个小伙子不利：他从马厩里带着香水回家，他去那里拜访了他的狗托泽——从那里他正准备带他的朋友出去散步，这时他遇到了克劳利小姐和她那只气喘吁吁的布伦海姆西班牙猎犬。如果不是布伦海姆号尖叫着逃到布里格斯小姐的保护下，托泽早就把它吃掉了，而凶恶的斗牛犬主人却站在那里嘲笑这场可怕的迫害。

This day too the unlucky boy’s modesty had likewise forsaken him. He was lively and facetious at dinner. During the repast he levelled one or two jokes against Pitt Crawley: he drank as much wine as upon the previous day; and going quite unsuspiciously to the drawing-room, began to entertain the ladies there with some choice Oxford stories. He described the different pugilistic qualities of Molyneux and Dutch Sam, offered playfully to give Lady Jane the odds upon the Tutbury Pet against the Rottingdean man, or take them, as her Ladyship chose: and crowned the pleasantry by proposing to back himself against his cousin Pitt Crawley, either with or without the gloves. ‘And that’s a fair offer, my buck,’ he said, with a loud laugh, slapping Pitt on the shoulder, ‘and my father told me to make it too, and he’ll go halves in the bet, ha, ha!’ So saying, the engaging youth nodded knowingly at poor Miss Briggs, and pointed his thumb over his shoulder at Pitt Crawley in a jocular and exulting manner.
这一天，这个不幸的男孩也同样失去了谦虚。晚餐时他很活泼、很幽默。吃饭时，他对皮特·克劳利开了一两个玩笑：他喝了和前一天一样多的酒；他喝了很多酒。然后毫不怀疑地走进客厅，开始给那里的女士们讲一些精选的牛津故事来招待她们。他描述了莫利纽克斯和荷兰山姆不同的拳击品质，开玩笑地提出要告诉简夫人塔特伯里宠物对抗罗廷迪恩人的几率，或者按照她的夫人的选择接受它们：并提议支持自己对抗他的表弟，从而为这场愉快的气氛加冕。皮特·克劳利，无论戴手套还是不戴手套。 “这是一个公平的提议，老兄，”他大声笑着说，拍着皮特的肩膀，“我父亲告诉我也去参加，他会赌一半，哈，哈！说着，这位迷人的年轻人会意地向可怜的布里格斯小姐点了点头，并以一种幽默而兴奋的方式将拇指越过肩膀指向皮特·克劳利。

Pitt was not pleased altogether perhaps, but still not unhappy in the main. Poor Jim had his laugh out: and staggered across the room with his aunt’s candle, when the old lady moved to retire, and offered to salute her with the blandest tipsy smile: and he took his own leave and went upstairs to his bedroom perfectly satisfied with himself, and with a pleased notion that his aunt’s money would be left to him in preference to his father and all the rest of the family.
皮特或许并不完全高兴，但总体上还算不上不高兴。可怜的吉姆笑了出来：当老太太准备退休时，他拿着姨妈的蜡烛摇摇晃晃地穿过房间，并提出用最温和的微醉的微笑向她致敬：然后他自己离开了，上楼回到他的卧室，非常满意他自己也很高兴，他高兴地想到，姨妈的钱将优先留给他，而不是他父亲和家里的其他人。

Once up in the bedroom, one would have thought he could not make matters worse; and yet this unlucky boy did. The moon was shining very pleasantly out on the sea, and Jim, attracted to the window by the romantic appearance of the ocean and the heavens, thought he would further enjoy them while smoking. Nobody would smell the tobacco, he thought, if he cunningly opened the window and kept his head and pipe in the fresh air. This he did: but being in an excited state, poor Jim had forgotten that his door was open all this time, so that the breeze blowing inwards and a fine thorough draught being established, the clouds of tobacco were carried downstairs, and arrived with quite undiminished fragrance to Miss Crawley and Miss Briggs.
一进卧室，人们就会认为他已经不能让事情变得更糟了。然而这个不幸的男孩却做到了。海上的月光非常宜人，吉姆被窗外浪漫的海洋和天空所吸引，他想在抽烟的时候会进一步享受它们。他想，如果他巧妙地打开窗户，让头和烟斗保持在新鲜空气中，就没有人会闻到烟草味了。他这样做了：但由于处于兴奋状态，可怜的吉姆忘记了他的门一直开着，因此微风向内吹来，形成了良好的彻底通风，烟草云被带到了楼下，并以相当大的速度到达了。克劳利小姐和布里格斯小姐的香气未减。

The pipe of tobacco finished the business: and the Bute-Crawleys never knew how many thousand pounds it cost them. Firkin rushed downstairs to Bowls who was reading out the ‘Fire and the Frying Pan’ to his aide-de-camp in a loud and ghostly voice. The dreadful secret was told to him by Firkin with so frightened a look, that for the first moment Mr. Bowls and his young man thought that robbers were in the house, the legs of whom had probably been discovered by the woman under Miss Crawley’s bed. When made aware of the fact, however—to rush upstairs at three steps at a time to enter the unconscious James’s apartment, calling out, ‘Mr. James,’ in a voice stifled with alarm, and to cry, ‘For Gawd’s sake, sir, stop that ‘ere pipe,’ was the work of a minute with Mr. Bowls. ‘O, Mr. James, what ‘AVE you done!’ he said in a voice of the deepest pathos, as he threw the implement out of the window. ‘What ‘ave you done, sir! Missis can’t abide ‘em.’
烟斗完成了生意：布特-克劳利一家永远不知道这花了他们多少钱。弗金冲下楼去找鲍尔斯，鲍尔斯正在用响亮而幽灵般的声音向他的副官宣读《火与煎锅》。弗金告诉他这个可怕的秘密时，他的表情是如此惊恐，以至于鲍尔斯先生和他的年轻人第一时间以为房子里有强盗，他们的腿很可能被克劳利小姐床底下的女人发现了。 。然而，当意识到这一事实时，他一次三步冲上楼，进入昏迷不醒的詹姆斯的公寓，大声喊道：“詹姆斯先生”。詹姆斯，”声音因惊恐而窒息，并喊道：“看在上帝的分上，先生，请停止那个‘马上’，鲍尔斯先生花了一分钟的时间才完成的工作。” “哦，詹姆斯先生，‘你做了什么！’他一边把工具扔出窗外，一边用极其悲痛的声音说道。 ‘你做了什么，先生！小姐无法忍受“他们”。

‘Missis needn’t smoke,’ said James with a frantic misplaced laugh, and thought the whole matter an excellent joke. But his feelings were very different in the morning, when Mr. Bowls’s young man, who operated upon Mr. James’s boots, and brought him his hot water to shave that beard which he was so anxiously expecting, handed a note in to Mr. James in bed, in the handwriting of Miss Briggs.
“小姐不必抽烟。”詹姆斯疯狂地笑了笑，他认为整件事是个绝妙的笑话。但到了早上，他的感觉就大不一样了，当时鲍尔斯先生的年轻人给詹姆斯先生的靴子做手术，给他送来热水，让他刮掉他焦急地等待的胡子，然后递给詹姆斯先生一张纸条。在床上，是布里格斯小姐的笔迹。

‘Dear sir,’ it said, ‘Miss Crawley has passed an exceedingly disturbed night, owing to the shocking manner in which the house has been polluted by tobacco; Miss Crawley bids me say she regrets that she is too unwell to see you before you go—and above all that she ever induced you to remove from the ale-house, where she is sure you will be much more comfortable during the rest of your stay at Brighton.’
“亲爱的先生，”上面写着，“克劳利小姐度过了一个极其不安的夜晚，因为房子被烟草污染的程度令人震惊；克劳利小姐要我说，她很遗憾在你走之前她身体太不舒服，没能见到你——最重要的是，她曾劝你离开啤酒屋，她相信你在剩下的时间里会更舒服。留在布莱顿。

And herewith honest James’s career as a candidate for his aunt’s favour ended. He had in fact, and without knowing it, done what he menaced to do. He had fought his cousin Pitt with the gloves.
诚实的詹姆斯作为姨妈青睐的候选人的生涯就这样结束了。事实上，他已经在不知不觉中做了他威胁要做的事。他曾用手套与他的表弟皮特战斗。

Where meanwhile was he who had been once first favourite for this race for money? Becky and Rawdon, as we have seen, were come together after Waterloo, and were passing the winter of 1815 at Paris in great splendour and gaiety. Rebecca was a good economist, and the price poor Jos Sedley had paid for her two horses was in itself sufficient to keep their little establishment afloat for a year, at the least; there was no occasion to turn into money ‘my pistols, the same which I shot Captain Marker,’ or the gold dressing-case, or the cloak lined with sable. Becky had it made into a pelisse for herself, in which she rode in the Bois de Boulogne to the admiration of all: and you should have seen the scene between her and her delighted husband, whom she rejoined after the army had entered Cambray, and when she unsewed herself, and let out of her dress all those watches, knick-knacks, bank-notes, cheques, and valuables, which she had secreted in the wadding, previous to her meditated flight from Brussels! Tufto was charmed, and Rawdon roared with delighted laughter, and swore that she was better than any play he ever saw, by Jove. And the way in which she jockeyed Jos, and which she described with infinite fun, carried up his delight to a pitch of quite insane enthusiasm. He believed in his wife as much as the French soldiers in Napoleon.
与此同时，曾经是这场金钱竞赛第一热门的他在哪里？正如我们所看到的，贝基和罗登在滑铁卢战役后相聚，在巴黎度过了 1815 年的冬天，气氛十分辉煌和欢乐。丽贝卡是一位优秀的经济学家，可怜的乔斯·塞德利为她的两匹马付出的代价本身就足以让他们的小企业至少维持一年；没有机会把“我的手枪，就是我射杀马克船长的那把手枪”，或者金梳妆盒，或者内衬紫貂皮的斗篷变成金钱。贝基为自己做了一件裙子，她在布洛涅森林骑马，引起了所有人的钦佩：你应该看到她和她高兴的丈夫之间的场景，在军队进入坎布雷后，她重新加入了丈夫。当她解开衣服，把所有那些手表、小摆设、钞票、支票和贵重物品从衣服里拿出来时，这些都是她在从布鲁塞尔出发之前藏在棉絮里的！塔夫托被迷住了，罗登高兴地大笑起来，并发誓她比他见过的任何戏剧都好，天哪。她以无限有趣的方式描述了她哄骗乔斯的方式，使他的喜悦达到了一种相当疯狂的热情。他像拿破仑手下的法国士兵一样相信自己的妻子。

Her success in Paris was remarkable. All the French ladies voted her charming. She spoke their language admirably. She adopted at once their grace, their liveliness, their manner. Her husband was stupid certainly—all English are stupid—and, besides, a dull husband at Paris is always a point in a lady’s favour. He was the heir of the rich and spirituelle Miss Crawley, whose house had been open to so many of the French noblesse during the emigration. They received the colonel’s wife in their own hotels—‘Why,’ wrote a great lady to Miss Crawley, who had bought her lace and trinkets at the Duchess’s own price, and given her many a dinner during the pinching times after the Revolution—‘Why does not our dear Miss come to her nephew and niece, and her attached friends in Paris? All the world raffoles of the charming Mistress and her espiegle beauty. Yes, we see in her the grace, the charm, the wit of our dear friend Miss Crawley! The King took notice of her yesterday at the Tuileries, and we are all jealous of the attention which Monsieur pays her. If you could have seen the spite of a certain stupid Miladi Bareacres (whose eagle-beak and toque and feathers may be seen peering over the heads of all assemblies) when Madame, the Duchess of Angouleme, the august daughter and companion of kings, desired especially to be presented to Mrs. Crawley, as your dear daughter and protegee, and thanked her in the name of France, for all your benevolence towards our unfortunates during their exile! She is of all the societies, of all the balls—of the balls—yes—of the dances, no; and yet how interesting and pretty this fair creature looks surrounded by the homage of the men, and so soon to be a mother! To hear her speak of you, her protectress, her mother, would bring tears to the eyes of ogres. How she loves you! how we all love our admirable, our respectable Miss Crawley!’
她在巴黎的成功是非凡的。所有的法国女士都认为她很有魅力。她能说他们的语言，令人钦佩。她立刻就继承了他们的优雅、活泼和举止。她的丈夫当然很蠢——所有的英国人都很蠢——而且，此外，在巴黎，一个迟钝的丈夫总是对女士有利的。他是富有而精神饱满的克劳利小姐的继承人，克劳利小姐的房子在移民期间向许多法国贵族开放。他们在自己的旅馆里接待了上校的妻子——“为什么，”一位伟大的女士写信给克劳利小姐，克劳利小姐以公爵夫人的价格给她买了花边和小饰品，并在革命后的拮据时期为她提供了许多顿晚餐——”为什么我们亲爱的小姐不来见她的侄子、侄女以及她在巴黎的朋友们呢？整个世界都充满了迷人的女主人和她的美丽。是的，我们在她身上看到了我们亲爱的朋友克劳利小姐的优雅、魅力和智慧！国王昨天在杜伊勒里宫注意到了她，我们都嫉妒先生对她的关注。如果你能看到某个愚蠢的米拉迪·巴雷克雷斯（他的鹰嘴、无边帽和羽毛在所有集会的头顶上方凝视）的恶意，当昂古莱姆公爵夫人，国王的庄严女儿和伴侣，渴望特别是作为您亲爱的女儿和门生，向克劳利夫人致以感谢，并以法国的名义感谢她，感谢您在流放期间对我们不幸的人所给予的仁慈！她属于所有的社团，属于所有的舞会——舞会的——是的——舞会的，不；然而，这个美丽的生物在男人们的敬意包围下看起来是多么有趣和美丽，而且很快就要成为母亲了！ 听到她谈论你，她的保护者，她的母亲，食人魔们都会热泪盈眶。她多么爱你啊！我们多么爱我们令人钦佩、可敬的克劳利小姐啊！’

It is to be feared that this letter of the Parisian great lady did not by any means advance Mrs. Becky’s interest with her admirable, her respectable, relative. On the contrary, the fury of the old spinster was beyond bounds, when she found what was Rebecca’s situation, and how audaciously she had made use of Miss Crawley’s name, to get an entree into Parisian society. Too much shaken in mind and body to compose a letter in the French language in reply to that of her correspondent, she dictated to Briggs a furious answer in her own native tongue, repudiating Mrs. Rawdon Crawley altogether, and warning the public to beware of her as a most artful and dangerous person. But as Madame the Duchess of X—had only been twenty years in England, she did not understand a single word of the language, and contented herself by informing Mrs. Rawdon Crawley at their next meeting, that she had received a charming letter from that chere Mees, and that it was full of benevolent things for Mrs. Crawley, who began seriously to have hopes that the spinster would relent.
令人担心的是，这位巴黎贵妇的这封信丝毫没有增进贝基夫人与她令人钦佩的、可敬的亲戚之间的兴趣。相反，当老处女发现丽贝卡的处境，以及她如何大胆地利用克劳利小姐的名字进入巴黎上流社会时，她的愤怒超出了限度。她的身心都受到了极大的震撼，无法用法语写一封信来回复她的通讯员，她用自己的母语向布里格斯口述了一份愤怒的答复，完全否定了罗登·克劳利夫人，并警告公众要提防她是一个最狡猾、最危险的人。但是，作为 X 公爵夫人夫人——在英国才呆了二十年，她对英国语言一个字也不懂，她满足于在下次见面时通知罗登·克劳利夫人，她收到了一封来自英国的迷人信件。谢尔·米斯，这对克劳利夫人来说充满了仁慈，她开始认真地希望老处女会软化。

Meanwhile, she was the gayest and most admired of Englishwomen: and had a little European congress on her reception-night. Prussians and Cossacks, Spanish and English—all the world was at Paris during this famous winter: to have seen the stars and cordons in Rebecca’s humble saloon would have made all Baker Street pale with envy. Famous warriors rode by her carriage in the Bois, or crowded her modest little box at the Opera. Rawdon was in the highest spirits. There were no duns in Paris as yet: there were parties every day at Very’s or Beauvilliers’; play was plentiful and his luck good. Tufto perhaps was sulky. Mrs. Tufto had come over to Paris at her own invitation, and besides this contretemps, there were a score of generals now round Becky’s chair, and she might take her choice of a dozen bouquets when she went to the play. Lady Bareacres and the chiefs of the English society, stupid and irreproachable females, writhed with anguish at the success of the little upstart Becky, whose poisoned jokes quivered and rankled in their chaste breasts. But she had all the men on her side. She fought the women with indomitable courage, and they could not talk scandal in any tongue but their own.
与此同时，她是最快乐、最受尊敬的英国女性：在她的接待之夜举行了一次小型的欧洲代表大会。普鲁士人和哥萨克人，西班牙人和英国人——在这个著名的冬天，全世界的人都聚集在巴黎：如果能在丽贝卡简陋的酒吧里看到星星和警戒线，整个贝克街都会羡慕不已。著名的武士在布瓦乘坐她的马车，或者在歌剧院挤满她朴素的小包厢。罗登情绪非常高涨。巴黎还没有催款：维里或博维利埃每天都有聚会；比赛很丰富，他的运气也很好。塔夫托也许很生气。塔夫托夫人是应她自己的邀请来到巴黎的，除了这个意外之外，现在贝基的椅子周围还有二十个将军，当她去看戏时，她可能会选择一打花束。巴里亚克斯夫人和英国社会的首领们，这些愚蠢而无可指责的女性，为小暴发户贝基的成功而痛苦不已，贝基的有毒笑话在她们贞洁的胸中颤抖和刺痛。但所有的男人都站在她这一边。她以不屈不挠的勇气与妇女们抗争，她们除了自己的语言之外不能用任何语言谈论丑闻。

So in fetes, pleasures, and prosperity, the winter of 1815-16 passed away with Mrs. Rawdon Crawley, who accommodated herself to polite life as if her ancestors had been people of fashion for centuries past—and who from her wit, talent, and energy, indeed merited a place of honour in Vanity Fair. In the early spring of 1816, Galignani’s Journal contained the following announcement in an interesting corner of the paper: ‘On the 26th of March—the Lady of Lieutenant-Colonel Crawley, of the Life Guards Green—of a son and heir.’
因此，在节日、欢乐和繁荣中，1815-16年的冬天与罗登·克劳利夫人一起逝去，她过着礼貌的生活，就好像她的祖先在过去的几个世纪里一直是时尚人士一样——而且她凭借自己的智慧、才华，和精力，确实值得在《名利场》中占有一席之地。 1816 年初春，加利尼亚尼的日记在报纸的一个有趣的角落里刊登了这样的公告：“3 月 26 日，格林卫队的克劳利中校女士生下了一个儿子和继承人。”

This event was copied into the London papers, out of which Miss Briggs read the statement to Miss Crawley, at breakfast, at Brighton. The intelligence, expected as it might have been, caused a crisis in the affairs of the Crawley family. The spinster’s rage rose to its height, and sending instantly for Pitt, her nephew, and for the Lady Southdown, from Brunswick Square, she requested an immediate celebration of the marriage which had been so long pending between the two families. And she announced that it was her intention to allow the young couple a thousand a year during her lifetime, at the expiration of which the bulk of her property would be settled upon her nephew and her dear niece, Lady Jane Crawley. Waxy came down to ratify the deeds—Lord Southdown gave away his sister—she was married by a Bishop, and not by the Rev. Bartholomew Irons—to the disappointment of the irregular prelate.
这一事件被登载在伦敦报纸上，布里格斯小姐在布莱顿早餐时向克劳利小姐宣读了这份声明。正如人们所预料的那样，这份情报给克劳利家族的事务带来了危机。老处女的愤怒达到了顶峰，她立即派人从不伦瑞克广场请来她的侄子皮特和绍斯唐夫人，要求立即庆祝两个家庭之间等待已久的婚姻。她宣布，她打算在她有生之年给这对年轻夫妇每年一千英镑，到期后她的大部分财产将归她的侄子和她亲爱的侄女简·克劳利夫人所有。瓦克西下来批准了这些契约——绍斯唐勋爵把他的妹妹送给了别人——她的婚姻是一位主教，而不是巴塞洛缪·艾恩斯牧师——这让这位不正规的主教感到失望。

When they were married, Pitt would have liked to take a hymeneal tour with his bride, as became people of their condition. But the affection of the old lady towards Lady Jane had grown so strong, that she fairly owned she could not part with her favourite. Pitt and his wife came therefore and lived with Miss Crawley: and (greatly to the annoyance of poor Pitt, who conceived himself a most injured character—being subject to the humours of his aunt on one side, and of his mother-in-law on the other) Lady Southdown, from her neighbouring house, reigned over the whole family—Pitt, Lady Jane, Miss Crawley, Briggs, Bowls, Firkin, and all. She pitilessly dosed them with her tracts and her medicine, she dismissed Creamer, she installed Rodgers, and soon stripped Miss Crawley of even the semblance of authority. The poor soul grew so timid that she actually left off bullying Briggs any more, and clung to her niece, more fond and terrified every day. Peace to thee, kind and selfish, vain and generous old heathen!—We shall see thee no more. Let us hope that Lady Jane supported her kindly, and led her with gentle hand out of the busy struggle of Vanity Fair.
当他们结婚时，皮特很想和他的新娘一起去处女膜之旅，就像他们这种情况的人一样。但老太太对简女士的感情已经变得如此强烈，以至于她承认她无法放弃她最喜欢的人。因此，皮特和他的妻子来了，和克劳利小姐住在一起：（这让可怜的皮特非常恼火，他认为自己是一个最受伤害的人——一方面受到他姨妈和岳母的幽默影响另一边）来自邻家的绍斯唐夫人统治着整个家庭——皮特、简夫人、克劳利小姐、布里格斯、鲍尔斯、菲尔金等等。她无情地用她的传单和药物给他们服用，她解雇了克里默，她任命了罗杰斯，很快就剥夺了克劳利小姐的权威，甚至连表面上的权力都剥夺了。这个可怜的灵魂变得如此胆怯，以至于她实际上不再欺负布里格斯，而是紧紧抓住她的侄女，一天比一天更加喜爱和恐惧。愿你平安，善良而自私，虚荣而慷慨的老异教徒！——我们再也见不到你了。希望简夫人善意地支持她，用温柔的手带领她走出忙碌的名利场斗争。

Chapter XXXV
第三十五章


Widow and Mother
寡妇和母亲

The news of the great fights of Quatre Bras and Waterloo reached England at the same time. The Gazette first published the result of the two battles; at which glorious intelligence all England thrilled with triumph and fear. Particulars then followed; and after the announcement of the victories came the list of the wounded and the slain. Who can tell the dread with which that catalogue was opened and read! Fancy, at every village and homestead almost through the three kingdoms, the great news coming of the battles in Flanders, and the feelings of exultation and gratitude, bereavement and sickening dismay, when the lists of the regimental losses were gone through, and it became known whether the dear friend and relative had escaped or fallen. Anybody who will take the trouble of looking back to a file of the newspapers of the time, must, even now, feel at second-hand this breathless pause of expectation. The lists of casualties are carried on from day to day: you stop in the midst as in a story which is to be continued in our next. Think what the feelings must have been as those papers followed each other fresh from the press; and if such an interest could be felt in our country, and about a battle where but twenty thousand of our people were engaged, think of the condition of Europe for twenty years before, where people were fighting, not by thousands, but by millions; each one of whom as he struck his enemy wounded horribly some other innocent heart far away.
四布拉斯和滑铁卢大战的消息同时传到了英国。 《公报》首先公布了两场战斗的结果；整个英格兰都为这一光辉的智慧感到兴奋和恐惧。接下来是细节；宣布胜利后，就公布了伤员和阵亡者名单。谁能说出打开和阅读该目录时的恐惧！想象一下，几乎遍及三个王国的每一个村庄和宅基地，佛兰德斯战役的重大消息传来，当团员损失清单被清查到时，人们感到兴奋和感激，丧亲和令人作呕的沮丧，知道亲爱的朋友和亲人是否逃脱或倒下。任何愿意不厌其烦地回顾当时报纸的人，即使是现在，也一定会感受到这种令人屏息的期待停顿。伤亡名单日复一日地继续下去：你停在中间，就像我们下一个故事要继续的故事一样。想象一下，当这些报纸刚刚出版时，大家的感受一定是怎样的？如果我们的国家能够感受到这样的兴趣，并且对于一场只有两万人民参与的战斗，想想二十年前欧洲的状况，那里的人们不是以数千人，而是以百万计的人进行战斗；他们每一个人在攻击敌人的同时，也严重伤害了远处另一颗无辜的心。

The news which that famous Gazette brought to the Osbornes gave a dreadful shock to the family and its chief. The girls indulged unrestrained in their grief. The gloom-stricken old father was still more borne down by his fate and sorrow. He strove to think that a judgment was on the boy for his disobedience. He dared not own that the severity of the sentence frightened him, and that its fulfilment had come too soon upon his curses. Sometimes a shuddering terror struck him, as if he had been the author of the doom which he had called down on his son. There was a chance before of reconciliation. The boy’s wife might have died; or he might have come back and said, Father I have sinned. But there was no hope now. He stood on the other side of the gulf impassable, haunting his parent with sad eyes. He remembered them once before so in a fever, when every one thought the lad was dying, and he lay on his bed speechless, and gazing with a dreadful gloom. Good God! how the father clung to the doctor then, and with what a sickening anxiety he followed him: what a weight of grief was off his mind when, after the crisis of the fever, the lad recovered, and looked at his father once more with eyes that recognised him. But now there was no help or cure, or chance of reconcilement: above all, there were no humble words to soothe vanity outraged and furious, or bring to its natural flow the poisoned, angry blood. And it is hard to say which pang it was that tore the proud father’s heart most keenly—that his son should have gone out of the reach of his forgiveness, or that the apology which his own pride expected should have escaped him.
那份著名的公报给奥斯本家族带来的消息给奥斯本家族及其首领带来了极大的震惊。女孩们无拘无束地沉浸在悲伤之中。郁郁寡欢的老父亲更是被命运和悲伤所压垮。他努力认为男孩因不服从而受到了审判。他不敢承认这个判决的严厉让他感到害怕，而且他的诅咒来得太早了。有时，一种令人战栗的恐惧袭击了他，仿佛他就是他给儿子带来的厄运的始作俑者。之前有过和解的机会。男孩的妻子可能已经死了；或者他可能会回来说，父啊，我犯了罪。但现在已经没有希望了。他站在无法逾越的鸿沟的另一边，用悲伤的眼神困扰着他的父母。他在发烧时想起了一次，当时每个人都认为这小伙子快要死了，他躺在床上说不出话来，凝视着可怕的忧郁。天哪！那时，父亲是多么紧紧地抓住医生，带着一种令人作呕的焦虑跟着他：当小伙子在发烧的危机之后康复，并再次用眼睛看着他的父亲时，他的脑海中充满了悲伤。那认出了他。但现在没有任何帮助或治疗，也没有和解的机会：最重要的是，没有谦卑的言语来安抚愤怒和愤怒的虚荣心，或让有毒的、愤怒的血液自然流动。很难说到底是哪一种痛苦最让这位骄傲的父亲心碎——是他的儿子超出了他的宽恕范围，还是他自己的骄傲所期望的道歉却没有得到他的原谅。

Whatever his sensations might have been, however, the stem old man would have no confidant. He never mentioned his son’s name to his daughters; but ordered the elder to place all the females of the establishment in mourning; and desired that the male servants should be similarly attired in deep black. All parties and entertainments, of course, were to be put off. No communications were made to his future son-in-law, whose marriage-day had been fixed: but there was enough in Mr. Osborne’s appearance to prevent Mr. Bullock from making any inquiries, or in any way pressing forward that ceremony. He and the ladies whispered about it under their voices in the drawing-room sometimes, whither the father never came. He remained constantly in his own study; the whole front part of the house being closed until some time after the completion of the general mourning.
然而，无论他的感受如何，这位严肃的老人不会有知己。他从来没有向女儿们提起过儿子的名字。但命令长老让所有的女性都处于哀悼之中。并希望男性仆人也同样穿着深黑色的衣服。当然，所有的聚会和娱乐活动都将被推迟。没有与他未来的女婿进行任何沟通，他的结婚日期已经确定：但奥斯本先生的外表足以阻止布洛克先生进行任何询问，或以任何方式推动仪式。有时，他和女士们会在客厅里低声谈论这件事，而父亲从来没有去过那里。他始终沉浸在自己的书房里。房子的整个前部被关闭，直到一般哀悼结束后一段时间。

About three weeks after the 18th of June, Mr. Osborne’s acquaintance, Sir William Dobbin, called at Mr. Osborne’s house in Russell Square, with a very pale and agitated face, and insisted upon seeing that gentleman. Ushered into his room, and after a few words, which neither the speaker nor the host understood, the former produced from an inclosure a letter sealed with a large red seal. ‘My son, Major Dobbin,’ the Alderman said, with some hesitation, ‘despatched me a letter by an officer of the —th, who arrived in town to-day. My son’s letter contains one for you, Osborne.’ The Alderman placed the letter on the table, and Osborne stared at him for a moment or two in silence. His looks frightened the ambassador, who after looking guiltily for a little time at the grief-stricken man, hurried away without another word.
6 月 18 日后大约三周，奥斯本先生的熟人威廉·多宾爵士来到奥斯本先生位于罗素广场的家，他的脸色苍白而焦躁，坚持要见那位先生。被带进他的房间，说了几句话，说话者和主人都听不懂，前者从附件中拿出一封盖着大红印章的信。 “我的儿子，多宾少校，”市议员犹豫了一下说，“给我寄了一封由今天抵达镇上的一名军官写的信。我儿子的信中有一封是写给你的，奥斯本。市议员把信放在桌子上，奥斯本沉默地盯着他看了一两分钟。他的表情吓坏了大使，大使愧疚地看了这个悲痛欲绝的人一会儿，然后一言不发地匆匆离开了。

The letter was in George’s well-known bold handwriting. It was that one which he had written before daybreak on the 16th of June, and just before he took leave of Amelia. The great red seal was emblazoned with the sham coat of arms which Osborne had assumed from the Peerage, with ‘Pax in bello’ for a motto; that of the ducal house with which the vain old man tried to fancy himself connected. The hand that signed it would never hold pen or sword more. The very seal that sealed it had been robbed from George’s dead body as it lay on the field of battle. The father knew nothing of this, but sat and looked at the letter in terrified vacancy. He almost fell when he went to open it.
这封信是乔治著名的粗体笔迹。这是他在 6 月 16 日黎明之前、也就是他离开阿米莉亚之前写下的。巨大的红色印章上刻有奥斯本从贵族那里获得的假徽章，并以“Pax in bello”作为座右铭。那个虚荣的老人试图幻想自己与公爵的房子有联系。签名的手再也不会握笔或剑了。当乔治的尸体躺在战场上时，密封它的封条就被从乔治的尸体上夺走了。父亲对此一无所知，只是坐在那儿，茫然地看着这封信。当他去打开它时，他差点摔倒。

Have you ever had a difference with a dear friend? How his letters, written in the period of love and confidence, sicken and rebuke you! What a dreary mourning it is to dwell upon those vehement protests of dead affection! What lying epitaphs they make over the corpse of love! What dark, cruel comments upon Life and Vanities! Most of us have got or written drawers full of them. They are closet-skeletons which we keep and shun. Osborne trembled long before the letter from his dead son.
你曾与好朋友发生过分歧吗？他写于爱情和信任时期的信是多么令人厌恶和责备啊！细想那些死去的感情的强烈抗议，是多么令人沉闷的哀悼啊！他们在爱情的尸体上写下多么谎言的墓志铭啊！对生活和虚荣的评论是多么黑暗、残酷啊！我们大多数人的抽屉里都装满了这些东西。它们是我们保留和回避的秘密骨架。奥斯本在他死去的儿子的来信面前颤抖了很久。

The poor boy’s letter did not say much. He had been too proud to acknowledge the tenderness which his heart felt. He only said, that on the eve of a great battle, he wished to bid his father farewell, and solemnly to implore his good offices for the wife—it might be for the child—whom he left behind him. He owned with contrition that his irregularities and his extravagance had already wasted a large part of his mother’s little fortune. He thanked his father for his former generous conduct; and he promised him that if he fell on the field or survived it, he would act in a manner worthy of the name of George Osborne.
可怜男孩的信里没有说太多。他太骄傲了，无法承认他内心所感受到的温柔。他只说，在一场大战前夕，他想向父亲告别，并郑重地恳求他为他留下的妻子——也可能是孩子——斡旋。他懊悔地承认，自己的不规范行为和铺张浪费已经浪费掉了母亲微薄的财产的很大一部分。他感谢父亲以前的慷慨行为；他向他保证，如果他倒在战场上或者幸存下来，他会以乔治·奥斯本的名义行事。

His English habit, pride, awkwardness perhaps, had prevented him from saying more. His father could not see the kiss George had placed on the superscription of his letter. Mr. Osborne dropped it with the bitterest, deadliest pang of balked affection and revenge. His son was still beloved and unforgiven.
他的英国习惯、骄傲，也许还有笨拙，让他没能说更多。他的父亲看不到乔治在他信的标题上亲吻的痕迹。奥斯本先生带着最痛苦、最致命的情感和报复而放弃了它。他的儿子仍然受到爱戴并且没有被原谅。

About two months afterwards, however, as the young ladies of the family went to church with their father, they remarked how he took a different seat from that which he usually occupied when he chose to attend divine worship; and that from his cushion opposite, he looked up at the wall over their heads. This caused the young women likewise to gaze in the direction towards which their father’s gloomy eyes pointed: and they saw an elaborate monument upon the wall, where Britannia was represented weeping over an urn, and a broken sword and a couchant lion indicated that the piece of sculpture had been erected in honour of a deceased warrior. The sculptors of those days had stocks of such funereal emblems in hand; as you may see still on the walls of St. Paul’s, which are covered with hundreds of these braggart heathen allegories. There was a constant demand for them during the first fifteen years of the present century.
然而，大约两个月后，当家里的年轻女士们和父亲一起去教堂时，她们注意到父亲选择参加神圣崇拜时所坐的座位与他通常所坐的座位不同；他坐在对面的坐垫上，抬头看着他们头顶的墙壁。这使得年轻的妇女们同样向着她们父亲阴沉的眼睛所指的方向凝视：她们看到墙上有一座精美的纪念碑，上面画着不列颠尼亚在瓮上哭泣，还有一把断剑和一头蹲伏的狮子表明这件作品为纪念一位已故的战士而竖立了一座雕塑。当时的雕塑家手中有大量此类葬礼徽章。正如你在圣保罗大教堂的墙上仍然可以看到的那样，墙上挂满了数百个这样自吹自擂的异教徒寓言。在本世纪的前十五年里，对它们的需求一直存在。

Under the memorial in question were emblazoned the well-known and pompous Osborne arms; and the inscription said, that the monument was ‘Sacred to the memory of George Osborne, Junior, Esq., late a Captain in his Majesty’s —th regiment of foot, who fell on the 18th of June, 1815, aged 28 years, while fighting for his king and country in the glorious victory of Waterloo. Dulce et decorum est pro patria mori.’
纪念碑下方刻有著名且浮夸的奥斯本徽章；碑文上写着，这座纪念碑是为了纪念小乔治·奥斯本先生，他是国王陛下第步兵团的一名上尉，于 1815 年 6 月 18 日阵亡，时年 28 岁，在滑铁卢的光荣胜利中为他的国王和国家而战。 Dulce et Decorum est pro patria mori。’

The sight of that stone agitated the nerves of the sisters so much, that Miss Maria was compelled to leave the church. The congregation made way respectfully for those sobbing girls clothed in deep black, and pitied the stern old father seated opposite the memorial of the dead soldier. ‘Will he forgive Mrs. George?’ the girls said to themselves as soon as their ebullition of grief was over. Much conversation passed too among the acquaintances of the Osborne family, who knew of the rupture between the son and father caused by the former’s marriage, as to the chance of a reconciliation with the young widow. There were bets among the gentlemen both about Russell Square and in the City.
看到那块石头，姐妹们的神经非常不安，玛丽亚小姐被迫离开了教堂。会众恭敬地为那些哭泣的身着深黑衣服的女孩们让路，并对坐在阵亡士兵纪念碑对面的严厉的老父亲表示同情。 “他会原谅乔治夫人吗？”悲痛一过，女孩们就自言自语道。奥斯本家族的熟人之间也进行了很多谈话，他们知道儿子和父亲之间因前者的婚姻而破裂，以及与年轻寡妇和解的机会。绅士们对罗素广场和金融城都下了赌注。

If the sisters had any anxiety regarding the possible recognition of Amelia as a daughter of the family, it was increased presently, and towards the end of the autumn, by their father’s announcement that he was going abroad. He did not say whither, but they knew at once that his steps would be turned towards Belgium, and were aware that George’s widow was still in Brussels. They had pretty accurate news indeed of poor Amelia from Lady Dobbin and her daughters. Our honest Captain had been promoted in consequence of the death of the second Major of the regiment on the field; and the brave O’Dowd, who had distinguished himself greatly here as upon all occasions where he had a chance to show his coolness and valour, was a Colonel and Companion of the Bath.
如果说姐妹俩对阿米莉亚可能被承认为家族的女儿有任何焦虑的话，那么在秋末，她们的父亲宣布要出国时，这种焦虑就加剧了。他没有说去哪里，但他们立即知道他的脚步将转向比利时，并且知道乔治的遗孀仍在布鲁塞尔。他们确实从多宾夫人和她的女儿们那里得到了关于可怜的阿米莉亚的相当准确的消息。由于该团第二位少校在战场上阵亡，我们诚实的上尉得到了晋升。勇敢的奥多德在这里表现出色，在所有有机会表现出冷静和勇敢的场合中他都表现出色，他是巴斯的上校和同伴。

Very many of the brave —th, who had suffered severely upon both days of action, were still at Brussels in the autumn, recovering of their wounds. The city was a vast military hospital for months after the great battles; and as men and officers began to rally from their hurts, the gardens and places of public resort swarmed with maimed warriors, old and young, who, just rescued out of death, fell to gambling, and gaiety, and love-making, as people of Vanity Fair will do. Mr. Osborne found out some of the —th easily. He knew their uniform quite well, and had been used to follow all the promotions and exchanges in the regiment, and loved to talk about it and its officers as if he had been one of the number. On the day after his arrival at Brussels, and as he issued from his hotel, which faced the park, he saw a soldier in the well-known facings, reposing on a stone bench in the garden, and went and sate down trembling by the wounded convalescent man.
许多勇敢的人在这两天的行动中遭受了严重的痛苦，秋天仍然留在布鲁塞尔养伤。大战结束后的几个月里，这座城市一直是一座巨大的军事医院。当士兵和军官们开始从伤痛中恢复过来时，花园和公共度假胜地挤满了受伤的战士，无论老少，他们刚刚从死亡中获救，开始赌博、欢乐和做爱，就像人们一样名利场就可以了。奥斯本先生很容易就发现了一些问题。他非常熟悉他们的制服，并且习惯于跟踪团里的所有晋升和交流，并且喜欢谈论它和军官们，就好像他是其中之一一样。到达布鲁塞尔的第二天，当他从面朝公园的旅馆出来时，他看到一名士兵，穿着众所周知的面孔，躺在花园里的一张石凳上，于是他颤抖着走到公园旁边坐下。受伤的康复者。

‘Were you in Captain Osborne’s company?’ he said, and added, after a pause, ‘he was my son, sir.’
“你是奥斯本上尉的同伴吗？”他说道，停顿了一下又补充道，“他是我的儿子，长官。”

The man was not of the Captain’s company, but he lifted up his unwounded arm and touched-his cap sadly and respectfully to the haggard broken-spirited gentleman who questioned him. ‘The whole army didn’t contain a finer or a better officer,’ the soldier said. ‘The Sergeant of the Captain’s company (Captain Raymond had it now), was in town, though, and was just well of a shot in the shoulder. His honour might see him if he liked, who could tell him anything he wanted to know about—about the —th’s actions. But his honour had seen Major Dobbin, no doubt, the brave Captain’s great friend; and Mrs. Osborne, who was here too, and had been very bad, he heard everybody say. They say she was out of her mind like for six weeks or more. But your honour knows all about that—and asking your pardon’—the man added.
这个人不是上尉的同伴，但他举起未受伤的手臂，悲伤而恭敬地向那位向他询问的那位憔悴、精神崩溃的绅士碰了碰自己的帽子。 “整个军队中没有比这更好的军官了，”士兵说。 “不过，上尉连的中士（雷蒙德上尉现在已经有了）就在城里，而且肩膀上挨了一枪。如果他愿意的话，他的荣誉可能会见到他，他可以告诉他任何他想知道的事情——关于那个……的行为。但他的荣幸看到了多宾少校，毫无疑问，这位勇敢的上尉的好朋友；奥斯本夫人也在场，她的表现非常糟糕，他听到每个人都这么说。他们说她精神错乱了六个星期或更长时间。但法官大人知道这一切，请您原谅”那人补充道。

Osborne put a guinea into the soldier’s hand, and told him he should have another if he would bring the Sergeant to the Hotel du Parc; a promise which very soon brought the desired officer to Mr. Osborne’s presence. And the first soldier went away; and after telling a comrade or two how Captain Osborne’s father was arrived, and what a free-handed generous gentleman he was, they went and made good cheer with drink and feasting, as long as the guineas lasted which had come from the proud purse of the mourning old father.
奥斯本把一个几内亚放在士兵手里，并告诉他，如果他愿意带中士去公园酒店，他就应该再拿一个几内亚。这一承诺很快就把所需的官员带到了奥斯本先生面前。第一个士兵就走了；在告诉了一两个同志奥斯本上尉的父亲是如何到达的，以及他是一位多么自由自在、慷慨的绅士之后，他们就去喝酒、大吃大喝，只要从骄傲的钱包里拿出来的畿尼还没有吃完，他们就去喝酒和享受欢乐。哀悼的老父亲。

In the Sergeant’s company, who was also just convalescent, Osborne made the journey of Waterloo and Quatre Bras, a journey which thousands of his countrymen were then taking. He took the Sergeant with him in his carriage, and went through both fields under his guidance. He saw the point of the road where the regiment marched into action on the 16th, and the slope down which they drove the French cavalry who were pressing on the retreating Belgians. There was the spot where the noble Captain cut down the French officer who was grappling with the young Ensign for the colours, the ColourSergeants having been shot down. Along this road they retreated on the next day, and here was the bank at which the regiment bivouacked under the rain of the night of the seventeenth. Further on was the position which they took and held during the day, forming time after time to receive the charge of the enemy’s horsemen and lying down under the shelter of the bank from the furious French cannonade. And it was at this declivity when at evening the whole English line received the order to advance, as the enemy fell back after his last charge, that the Captain, hurraying and rushing down the hill waving his sword, received a shot and fell dead. ‘It was Major Dobbin who took back the Captain’s body to Brussels,’ the Sergeant said, in a low voice, ‘and had him buried, as your honour knows.’ The peasants and relic-hunters about the place were screaming round the pair, as the soldier told his story, offering for sale all sorts of mementoes of the fight, crosses, and epaulets, and shattered cuirasses, and eagles.
在同样刚刚康复的中士连队中，奥斯本踏上了滑铁卢和四布拉斯的旅程，当时他的数千名同胞正在经历这一旅程。他带着中士乘着马车，在他的带领下穿过了两片田地。他看到了该团16日行进的道路点，以及他们将向撤退的比利时人施压的法国骑兵赶下的斜坡。在那里，高贵的上尉砍倒了一名与年轻少尉争夺军旗的法国军官，军旗军士都被击落了。第二天，他们沿着这条路撤退，十七日夜里，该团在雨中在河岸上扎营。再往前走，就是他们白天占据和坚守的阵地，一次又一次地形成阵势，迎接敌人骑兵的冲锋，并躺在河岸的掩护下，躲避法军猛烈的炮火。就在傍晚时分，整个英军战线都接到了前进的命令，敌人在最后一次冲锋后撤退，此时，上尉挥舞着剑，呼喊着冲下山，中弹倒地身亡。 “是多宾少校把上尉的尸体带回了布鲁塞尔，”中士低声说道，“并埋葬了他，正如您所知。”周围的农民和文物猎人在两人周围尖叫。这名士兵讲述了他的故事，出售各种战斗纪念品，包括十字架、肩章、破碎的胸甲和鹰。

Osborne gave a sumptuous reward to the Sergeant when he parted with him, after having visited the scenes of his son’s last exploits. His burial-place he had already seen. Indeed, he had driven thither immediately after his arrival at Brussels. George’s body lay in the pretty burial-ground of Laeken, near the city; in which place, having once visited it on a party of pleasure, he had lightly expressed a wish to have his grave made. And there the young officer was laid by his friend, in the unconsecrated corner of the garden, separated by a little hedge from the temples and towers and plantations of flowers and shrubs, under which the Roman Catholic dead repose. It seemed a humiliation to old Osborne to think that his son, an English gentleman, a captain in the famous British army, should not be found worthy to lie in ground where mere foreigners were buried. Which of us is there can tell how much vanity lurks in our warmest regard for others, and how selfish our love is? Old Osborne did not speculate much upon the mingled nature of his feelings, and how his instinct and selfishness were combating together. He firmly believed that everything he did was right, that he ought on all occasions to have his own way—and like the sting of a wasp or serpent his hatred rushed out armed and poisonous against anything like opposition. He was proud of his hatred as of everything else. Always to be right, always to trample forward, and never to doubt, are not these the great qualities with which dullness takes the lead in the world?
奥斯本在参观了儿子最后功绩的场景后，与这位中士告别时，给了他一份丰盛的奖励。他的墓地他已经看过了。事实上，他一抵达布鲁塞尔就立即开车前往那里。乔治的尸体躺在靠近城市的拉肯美丽的墓地里。有一次，他在一次愉快的聚会上参观过这个地方，他曾轻轻地表达过为自己建造坟墓的愿望。这位年轻的军官被他的朋友安葬在花园的一个未奉献的角落里，用一道小树篱与寺庙、塔楼以及花卉和灌木种植园隔开，在这些种植园下长眠着罗马天主教的死者。老奥斯本认为他的儿子，一位英国绅士，一位著名的英国军队的上尉，不应该被认为有资格躺在埋葬外国人的地方，这似乎是一种耻辱。我们当中谁能看出我们对他人最热情的关怀中潜伏着多少虚荣心，我们的爱是多么自私？老奥斯本并没有过多地思考他的感情是如何复杂的，以及他的本能和自私是如何相互斗争的。他坚信他所做的一切都是正确的，他应该在任何情况下都按自己的方式行事——就像黄蜂或蛇的刺痛一样，他的仇恨全副武装、有毒地冲向任何反对派。他为自己的仇恨感到自豪，就像为其他一切感到自豪一样。永远正确，永远向前迈进，永远不怀疑，这不就是愚钝在世界上领先的伟大品质吗？

As after the drive to Waterloo, Mr. Osborne’s carriage was nearing the gates of the city at sunset, they met another open barouche, in which were a couple of ladies and a gentleman, and by the side of which an officer was riding. Osborne gave a start back, and the Sergeant, seated with him, cast a look of surprise at his neighbour, as he touched his cap to the officer, who mechanically returned his salute. It was Amelia, with the lame young Ensign by her side, and opposite to her her faithful friend Mrs. O’Dowd. It was Amelia, but how changed from the fresh and comely girl Osborne knew. Her face was white and thin. Her pretty brown hair was parted under a widow’s cap—the poor child. Her eyes were fixed, and looking nowhere. They stared blank in the face of Osborne, as the carriages crossed each other, but she did not know him; nor did he recognise her, until looking up, he saw Dobbin riding by her: and then he knew who it was. He hated her. He did not know how much until he saw her there. When her carriage had passed on, he turned and stared at the Sergeant, with a curse and defiance in his eye cast at his companion, who could not help looking at him—as much as to say ‘How dare you look at me? Damn you! I do hate her. It is she who has tumbled my hopes and all my pride down.’ ‘Tell the scoundrel to drive on quick,’ he shouted with an oath, to the lackey on the box. A minute afterwards, a horse came clattering over the pavement behind Osborne’s carriage, and Dobbin rode up. His thoughts had been elsewhere as the carriages passed each other, and it was not until he had ridden some paces forward, that he remembered it was Osborne who had just passed him. Then he turned to examine if the sight of her father-in-law had made any impression on Amelia, but the poor girl did not know who had passed. Then William, who daily used to accompany her in his drives, taking out his watch, made some excuse about an engagement which he suddenly recollected, and so rode off. She did not remark that either: but sate looking before her, over the homely landscape towards the woods in the distance, by which George marched away.
驱车前往滑铁卢后，奥斯本先生的马车在日落时接近城门时，他们遇到了另一辆敞开的四轮马车，车上坐着几位女士和一位先生，旁边坐着一位军官。奥斯本猛地向后退了一步，坐在他旁边的中士向他的邻座投去惊讶的表情，同时他向军官碰了碰帽子，军官机械地回礼。那是阿米莉亚，身边站着年轻的跛脚少尉，对面是她忠实的朋友奥多德夫人。那是阿米莉亚，但与奥斯本认识的那个清新漂亮的女孩相比，发生了多么大的变化。她的脸又白又瘦。她漂亮的棕色头发在寡妇帽下分开——这可怜的孩子。她的眼睛一动不动，看不到任何地方。当马车相互交叉时，他们茫然地看着奥斯本的脸，但她不认识他。他也不认识她，直到抬起头，他看到多宾骑在她身边：然后他才知道那人是谁。他恨她。他不知道有多少，直到他在那里看到她。当她的马车驶过之后，他转过身来，盯着中士，眼中带着咒骂和蔑视的目光投向他的同伴，后者忍不住看着他，仿佛在说：“你怎么敢看我？”该死的你！我确实讨厌她。是她让我的希望和我所有的骄傲都落空了。” “告诉那个恶棍快点，”他对着箱子上的仆人大声喊道。一分钟后，一匹马在奥斯本的马车后面的人行道上嘎嘎地跑过来，多宾骑了上去。当马车擦肩而过时，他的思绪一直在别处，直到向前走了几步，他才想起刚刚从他身边经过的是奥斯本。 然后他转过身去检查阿米莉亚看到的公公是否给她留下了任何印象，但可怜的女孩不知道是谁过去了。然后，每天陪她开车的威廉拿出手表，为他突然想起的订婚找了个借口，然后骑车走了。她也没有注意到这一点：只是坐在那儿，望着前方，越过朴素的风景，望向远处的树林，乔治就从树林里走开了。

‘Mr. Osborne, Mr. Osborne!’ cried Dobbin, as he rode up and held out his hand. Osborne made no motion to take it, but shouted out once more and with another curse to his servant to drive on.
'先生。 “奥斯本，奥斯本先生！”多宾一边叫道，一边骑马走上前来，伸出了手。奥斯本没有接过它的动作，而是再次大声喊叫，并再次咒骂他的仆人继续前进。

Dobbin laid his hand on the carriage side. ‘I will see you, sir,’ he said. ‘I have a message for you.’
多宾把手放在马车一侧。 “我会见到你，先生，”他说。 “我有话要告诉你。”

‘From that woman?’ said Osborne, fiercely.
“是那个女人的？”奥斯本恶狠狠地说。

‘No,’ replied the other, ‘from your son”; at which Osborne fell back into the corner of his carriage, and Dobbin allowing it to pass on, rode close behind it, and so through the town until they reached Mr. Osborne’s hotel, and without a word. There he followed Osborne up to his apartments. George had often been in the rooms; they were the lodgings which the Crawleys had occupied during their stay in Brussels.
“不，”另一个人回答说，“是你儿子的。”这时，奥斯本倒回马车的角落里，多宾让马车继续前行，紧跟在马车后面，穿过城镇，直到他们到达奥斯本先生的旅馆，一言不发。他跟着奥斯本来到他的公寓。乔治经常呆在房间里。这些是克劳利夫妇在布鲁塞尔逗留期间所住的住所。

‘Pray, have you any commands for me, Captain Dobbin, or, I beg your pardon, I should say MAJOR Dobbin, since better men than you are dead, and you step into their SHOES?’ said Mr. Osborne, in that sarcastic tone which he sometimes was pleased to assume.
“请问，多宾船长，您对我有什么命令吗？或者，请原谅，我应该说多宾少校，因为比您更好的人都死了，而您却接替了他们的立场？”奥斯本先生用讽刺的语气说道。他有时很乐意采用这种语气。

‘Better men ARE dead,’ Dobbin replied. ‘I want to speak to you about one.’
“更好的人已经死了，”多宾回答道。 “我想和你谈谈一个。”

‘Make it short, sir,’ said the other with an oath, scowling at his visitor.
“长话短说，先生，”另一个人咒骂着说道，皱着眉头看着他的来访者。

‘I am here as his closest friend,’ the Major resumed, ‘and the executor of his will. He made it before he went into action. Are you aware how small his means are, and of the straitened circumstances of his widow?’
“我作为他最亲密的朋友来到这里，”少校继续说道，“也是他遗嘱的执行者。”他在采取行动之前就做到了。你知道他的财产有多么少，他的遗孀的处境也很拮据吗？

‘I don’t know his widow, sir,’ Osborne said. ‘Let her go back to her father.’ But the gentleman whom he addressed was determined to remain in good temper, and went on without heeding the interruption.
“我不认识他的遗孀，先生，”奥斯本说。 “让她回她父亲那里去吧。”但是他说话的那位先生决心保持好脾气，没有理会打扰，继续说道。

‘Do you know, sir, Mrs. Osborne’s condition? Her life and her reason almost have been shaken by the blow which has fallen on her. It is very doubtful whether she will rally. There is a chance left for her, however, and it is about this I came to speak to you. She will be a mother soon. Will you visit the parent’s offence upon the child’s head? or will you forgive the child for poor George’s sake?’
“先生，您知道奥斯本夫人的病情吗？”她的生命，她的理智，几乎都被这突如其来的打击所动摇了。她是否会重整旗鼓非常值得怀疑。不过，她还有机会，我就是为了这个来跟你说话的。她很快就要当妈妈了。你会把父母的过错归到孩子的头上吗？或者你会看在可怜的乔治的份上原谅这个孩子吗？

Osborne broke out into a rhapsody of self-praise and imprecations;— by the first, excusing himself to his own conscience for his conduct; by the second, exaggerating the undutifulness of George. No father in all England could have behaved more generously to a son, who had rebelled against him wickedly. He had died without even so much as confessing he was wrong. Let him take the consequences of his undutifulness and folly. As for himself, Mr. Osborne, he was a man of his word. He had sworn never to speak to that woman, or to recognize her as his son’s wife. ‘And that’s what you may tell her,’ he concluded with an oath; ‘and that’s what I will stick to to the last day of my life.’
奥斯本爆发出一阵自我赞扬和咒骂的狂想曲；——首先，他为自己的行为向自己的良心开脱；其次，他为自己的行为辩解。第二个则夸大了乔治的不负责任。全英格兰没有哪个父亲能够对一个邪恶地反抗他的儿子表现得如此慷慨。他就死了，甚至没有承认自己错了。让他承担自己不负责任和愚蠢的后果。至于他本人，奥斯本先生，他是一个言出必行的人。他发誓永远不会和那个女人说话，也不会承认她是他儿子的妻子。 “这就是你可以告诉她的，”他发誓最后说道。 “这就是我将坚持到生命最后一天的事情。”

There was no hope from that quarter then. The widow must live on her slender pittance, or on such aid as Jos could give her. ‘I might tell her, and she would not heed it,’ thought Dobbin, sadly: for the poor girl’s thoughts were not here at all since her catastrophe, and, stupefied under the pressure of her sorrow, good and evil were alike indifferent to her.
那个季度没有希望。寡妇必须靠微薄的收入或乔斯能给她的援助生活。 “我可能会告诉她，但她不会听从，”多宾悲伤地想，因为自从她遭遇灾难以来，这个可怜的女孩的思绪根本不在这儿，而且，在她悲伤的压力下，善与恶都变得麻木了。她。

So, indeed, were even friendship and kindness. She received them both uncomplainingly, and having accepted them, relapsed into her grief.
事实上，甚至友谊和仁慈也是如此。她毫无怨言地接受了他们，接受了他们之后，又陷入了悲伤。

Suppose some twelve months after the above conversation took place to have passed in the life of our poor Amelia. She has spent the first portion of that time in a sorrow so profound and pitiable, that we who have been watching and describing some of the emotions of that weak and tender heart, must draw back in the presence of the cruel grief under which it is bleeding. Tread silently round the hapless couch of the poor prostrate soul. Shut gently the door of the dark chamber wherein she suffers, as those kind people did who nursed her through the first months of her pain, and never left her until heaven had sent her consolation. A day came—of almost terrified delight and wonder—when the poor widowed girl pressed a child upon her breast—a child, with the eyes of George who was gone—a little boy, as beautiful as a cherub. What a miracle it was to hear its first cry! How she laughed and wept over it—how love, and hope, and prayer woke again in her bosom as the baby nestled there. She was safe. The doctors who attended her, and had feared for her life or for her brain, had waited anxiously for this crisis before they could pronounce that either was secure. It was worth the long months of doubt and dread which the persons who had constantly been with her had passed, to see her eyes once more beaming tenderly upon them.
假设上述谈话发生在我们可怜的阿米莉亚的生活中大约十二个月后。她在那段时间的前一部分是在如此深刻和可怜的悲伤中度过的，以至于我们这些一直在观察和描述那颗脆弱而温柔的心的一些情感的人，必须在残酷的悲伤面前退缩。流血的。默默地绕着可怜的匍匐灵魂的倒霉沙发走去。轻轻地关上她受苦的黑暗房间的门，就像那些好心人所做的那样，他们在最初几个月的痛苦中照顾她，直到上天给她带来安慰为止，他们从未离开过她。有一天——几乎是令人恐惧的喜悦和惊奇——那个可怜的寡妇把一个孩子压在胸前——一个孩子，长着已经去世的乔治的眼睛——一个小男孩，像小天使一样美丽。听到它的第一声叫声真是一个奇迹！她为此欢笑、哭泣——当婴儿依偎在她怀里时，爱、希望和祈祷再次在她怀里苏醒。她很安全。给她看病的医生担心她的生命或大脑的安全，他们焦急地等待着这场危机，然后才宣布这两者是安全的。那些一直和她在一起的人度过了漫长的几个月的怀疑和恐惧，看到她的眼睛再次温柔地看着他们，是值得的。

Our friend Dobbin was one of them. It was he who brought her back to England and to her mother’s house; when Mrs. O’Dowd, receiving a peremptory summons from her Colonel, had been forced to quit her patient. To see Dobbin holding the infant, and to hear Amelia’s laugh of triumph as she watched him, would have done any man good who had a sense of humour. William was the godfather of the child, and exerted his ingenuity in the purchase of cups, spoons, papboats, and corals for this little Christian.
我们的朋友多宾就是其中之一。是他把她带回了英国，回到了她母亲的家。当奥多德夫人接到上校的强制传唤时，被迫离开了她的病人。看到多宾抱着婴儿，听到阿米莉亚看着他时发出胜利的笑声，这对任何有幽默感的人都是有好处的。威廉是这个孩子的教父，他发挥了他的聪明才智，为这个小基督徒购买了杯子、勺子、木船和珊瑚。

How his mother nursed him, and dressed him, and lived upon him; how she drove away all nurses, and would scarce allow any hand but her own to touch him; how she considered that the greatest favour she could confer upon his godfather, Major Dobbin, was to allow the Major occasionally to dandle him, need not be told here. This child was her being. Her existence was a maternal caress. She enveloped the feeble and unconscious creature with love and worship. It was her life which the baby drank in from her bosom. Of nights, and when alone, she had stealthy and intense raptures of motherly love, such as God’s marvellous care has awarded to the female instinct— joys how far higher and lower than reason—blind beautiful devotions which only women’s hearts know. It was William Dobbin’s task to muse upon these movements of Amelia’s, and to watch her heart; and if his love made him divine almost all the feelings which agitated it, alas! he could see with a fatal perspicuity that there was no place there for him. And so, gently, he bore his fate, knowing it, and content to bear it.
他的母亲如何照顾他、给他穿衣服、靠他生活；她如何赶走所有的护士，除了她自己的手之外，几乎不允许任何人碰触他；她认为自己能给他的教父多宾少校最大的恩惠，就是允许少校偶尔逗弄他，这里不必多说。这个孩子就是她的存在。她的存在就是一种母性的爱抚。她用爱和崇拜包围了这个虚弱、无意识的生物。婴儿从她怀里喝下的是她的生命。夜晚，独处时，她对母爱有一种隐秘而强烈的狂喜，就像上帝赋予女性本能的奇妙关怀一样——比理性高得多或低得多的快乐——盲目而美丽的奉献，只有女人的心才知道。威廉·多宾的任务是思考阿米莉亚的这些动作，并观察她的内心。如果他的爱使他能够洞察几乎所有激动它的感情，唉！他极其清楚地看到那里没有他的位置。因此，他温柔地承受着自己的命运，他知道这一点，并且满足于承受它。

I suppose Amelia’s father and mother saw through the intentions of the Major, and were not ill-disposed to encourage him; for Dobbin visited their house daily, and stayed for hours with them, or with Amelia, or with the honest landlord, Mr. Clapp, and his family. He brought, on one pretext or another, presents to everybody, and almost every day; and went, with the landlord’s little girl, who was rather a favourite with Amelia, by the name of Major Sugarplums. It was this little child who commonly acted as mistress of the ceremonies to introduce him to Mrs. Osborne. She laughed one day when Major Sugarplums’ cab drove up to Fulham, and he descended from it, bringing out a wooden horse, a drum, a trumpet, and other warlike toys, for little Georgy, who was scarcely six months old, and for whom the articles in question were entirely premature.
我想阿米莉亚的父母已经看穿了少校的意图，并没有恶意地鼓励他。因为多宾每天都会拜访他们的房子，并与他们、或者与阿米莉亚、或者与诚实的房东克拉普先生和他的家人呆上几个小时。他几乎每天都会以这样或那样的借口给每个人带来礼物。和房东的小女孩一起去了，她很受阿米莉亚的喜爱，名叫糖梅少校。正是这个小孩子通常充当将他介绍给奥斯本夫人的仪式的女主人。有一天，当糖梅少校的出租车开到富勒姆时，她笑了，他从车上下来，拿出一匹木马、一面鼓、一个喇叭和其他好战的玩具，给还不到六个月大的小乔治，也给她准备了一些礼物。那些有问题的文章完全是不成熟的。

The child was asleep. ‘Hush,’ said Amelia, annoyed, perhaps, at the creaking of the Major’s boots; and she held out her hand; smiling because William could not take it until he had rid himself of his cargo of toys. ‘Go downstairs, little Mary,’ said he presently to the child, ‘I want to speak to Mrs. Osborne.’ She looked up rather astonished, and laid down the infant on its bed.
孩子睡着了。 “嘘，”阿米莉亚说，也许是因为少校靴子发出的嘎吱声而恼火。她伸出了手；威廉微笑着，因为除非他把玩具堆里的东西处理掉，否则威廉无法接受。 “下楼吧，小玛丽，”他立即对孩子说，“我想和奥斯本太太说话。”她相当惊讶地抬起头来，把婴儿放在床上。

‘I am come to say good-bye, Amelia,’ said he, taking her slender little white hand gently.
“我是来告别的，阿米莉亚，”他轻轻地握住她纤细白皙的小手。

‘Good-bye? and where are you going?’ she said, with a smile.
'再见？你要去哪里？”她微笑着说道。

‘Send the letters to the agents,’ he said; ‘they will forward them; for you will write to me, won’t you? I shall be away a long time.’
“把信寄给特工，”他说； ‘他们会转发它们；因为你会写信给我，不是吗？我要离开很长时间。

‘I’ll write to you about Georgy,’ she said. ‘Dear’ William, how good you have been to him and to me. Look at him. Isn’t he like an angel?’
“我会写信给你关于乔治的事，”她说。 “亲爱的”威廉，你对他和我有多好。看着他。他不像天使吗？

The little pink hands of the child closed mechanically round the honest soldier’s finger, and Amelia looked up in his face with bright maternal pleasure. The cruellest looks could not have wounded him more than that glance of hopeless kindness. He bent over the child and mother. He could not speak for a moment. And it was only with all his strength that he could force himself to say a God bless you. ‘God bless you,’ said Amelia, and held up her face and kissed him.
孩子的粉红色小手机械地握住了诚实士兵的手指，阿米莉亚带着明亮的母性喜悦抬头看着他的脸。最残酷的目光也不会比那绝望的仁慈的目光更能伤害他。他弯下腰​​看着孩子和母亲。他一时说不出话来。只有用尽全力，他才能强迫自己说出“愿上帝保佑你”。 “上帝保佑你，”阿米莉亚说着，抬起脸来吻了他。

‘Hush! Don’t wake Georgy!’ she added, as William Dobbin went to the door with heavy steps. She did not hear the noise of his cab-wheels as he drove away: she was looking at the child, who was laughing in his sleep.
‘嘘！别吵醒乔治！”威廉·多宾迈着沉重的步伐走到门口时，她补充道。当他开车离开时，她没有听到他的出租车车轮的噪音：她看着那个在睡梦中笑的孩子。

Chapter XXXVI
第三十六章


How to Live Well on Nothing a Year
如何一年无所事事过上好日子

I suppose there is no man in this Vanity Fair of ours so little observant as not to think sometimes about the worldly affairs of his acquaintances, or so extremely charitable as not to wonder how his neighbour Jones, or his neighbour Smith, can make both ends meet at the end of the year. With the utmost regard for the family, for instance (for I dine with them twice or thrice in the season), I cannot but own that the appearance of the Jenkinses in the park, in the large barouche with the grenadier-footmen, will surprise and mystify me to my dying day: for though I know the equipage is only jobbed, and all the Jenkins people are on board wages, yet those three men and the carriage must represent an expense of six hundred a year at the very least—and then there are the splendid dinners, the two boys at Eton, the prize governess and masters for the girls, the trip abroad, or to Eastbourne or Worthing, in the autumn, the annual ball with a supper from Gunter’s (who, by the way, supplies most of the first-rate dinners which J. gives, as I know very well, having been invited to one of them to fill a vacant place, when I saw at once that these repasts are very superior to the common run of entertainments for which the humbler sort of J.’s acquaintances get cards)—who, I say, with the most good-natured feelings in the world, can help wondering how the Jenkinses make out matters? What is Jenkins? We all know—Commissioner of the Tape and Sealing Wax Office, with 1200 pounds a year for a salary. Had his wife a private fortune? Pooh!—Miss Flint—one of eleven children of a small squire in Buckinghamshire. All she ever gets from her family is a turkey at Christmas, in exchange for which she has to board two or three of her sisters in the off season, and lodge and feed her brothers when they come to town. How does Jenkins balance his income? I say, as every friend of his must say, How is it that he has not been outlawed long since, and that he ever came back (as he did to the surprise of everybody) last year from Boulogne?
我想，在我们这个名利场里，没有人会如此缺乏观察力，以至于有时不去思考他所认识的人的世俗事务，也没有人会如此极其仁慈，以至于不去想知道他的邻居琼斯或他的邻居史密斯如何能够实现两全其美。年底见面。例如，出于对家人的最大尊重（因为每个季节我都会和他们一起吃饭两到三次），我不得不承认，詹金斯一家出现在公园里，坐在大马车里，和掷弹兵步兵在一起，我会感到惊讶让我直到我死去的那一天都感到困惑：因为虽然我知道这辆马车只是有工作的，而且所有詹金斯人都有工资，但这三个人和马车每年至少要花六百美元——而且然后是丰盛的晚餐，伊顿公学的两个男孩，女孩们的获奖家庭教师和主人，出国旅行，或者秋天去伊斯特本或沃辛，一年一度的舞会，还有冈特家的晚餐（顺便说一下，他是，提供了J.提供的大部分一流的晚餐，正如我所知道的那样，我被邀请参加其中一个餐厅来填补空缺，当我立刻发现这些晚餐比普通的娱乐活动要好得多时J. 的熟人中比较卑微的人会得到卡片）——我说，谁是世界上最善意的人，可以帮助想知道詹金斯一家是如何解决问题的呢？什么是詹金斯？我们都知道——胶带和密封蜡办公室专员，年薪1200英镑。他的妻子有私人财产吗？呸！——弗林特小姐——白金汉郡一位小乡绅的十一个孩子之一。 她从家人那里得到的只是圣诞节时的一只火鸡，作为交换，她必须在淡季寄宿她的两三个姐妹，并在她的兄弟进城时为他们提供住宿和食物。詹金斯如何平衡他的收入？我说，正如他的每个朋友都会说的那样，为什么他很久以前就没有被取缔，而且去年他又从布洛涅回来了（正如他所做的，令所有人感到惊讶）？

‘I’ is here introduced to personify the world in general—the Mrs. Grundy of each respected reader’s private circle—every one of whom can point to some families of his acquaintance who live nobody knows how. Many a glass of wine have we all of us drunk, I have very little doubt, hob-and-nobbing with the hospitable giver and wondering how the deuce he paid for it.
这里引入的“我”是为了代表整个世界——每位受人尊敬的读者私人圈子里的格伦迪夫人——每个人都可以指出他所认识的一些家庭，他们的生活无人知晓。我们大家都喝了很多杯酒，我毫不怀疑，与热情好客的送礼者打交道，想知道他是如何付钱的。

Some three or four years after his stay in Paris, when Rawdon Crawley and his wife were established in a very small comfortable house in Curzon Street, May Fair, there was scarcely one of the numerous friends whom they entertained at dinner that did not ask the above question regarding them. The novelist, it has been said before, knows everything, and as I am in a situation to be able to tell the public how Crawley and his wife lived without any income, may I entreat the public newspapers which are in the habit of extracting portions of the various periodical works now published not to reprint the following exact narrative and calculations—of which I ought, as the discoverer (and at some expense, too), to have the benefit? My son, I would say, were I blessed with a child—you may by deep inquiry and constant intercourse with him learn how a man lives comfortably on nothing a year. But it is best not to be intimate with gentlemen of this profession and to take the calculations at second hand, as you do logarithms, for to work them yourself, depend upon it, will cost you something considerable.
罗登·克劳利在巴黎逗留大约三四年后，他和妻子在梅菲尔区柯松街的一栋非常小而舒适的房子里安顿下来，他们在晚餐时招待的众多朋友中，几乎没有一个不问他们的问题。上述关于他们的问题。前面已经说过，小说家无所不知，而我现在的处境能够告诉公众克劳利和他的妻子在没有任何收入的情况下如何生活，我可以请求那些习惯于摘录部分内容的公共报纸吗？现在出版的各种期刊作品中是否不重印以下精确的叙述和计算——作为发现者（并且也要付出一些代价），我应该从中受益？我想说的是，我的儿子，如果我有幸拥有一个孩子的话——你可以通过深入的询问和与他的不断交流来了解一个人如何一年不吃任何东西过着舒适的生活。但最好不要与这个行业的绅士亲密接触，并像计算对数一样进行二手计算，因为依靠它，你自己计算将花费相当大的费用。

On nothing per annum then, and during a course of some two or three years, of which we can afford to give but a very brief history, Crawley and his wife lived very happily and comfortably at Paris. It was in this period that he quitted the Guards and sold out of the army. When we find him again, his mustachios and the title of Colonel on his card are the only relics of his military profession.
那时，克劳利和他的妻子在巴黎过着幸福而舒适的生活，每年一分钱都没有，在大约两三年的时间里（我们只能简单介绍一下这段历史）。正是在这一时期，他退出了近卫军并出卖了军队。当我们再次找到他时，他的小胡子和卡上的上校头衔是他军事生涯的唯一遗迹。

It has been mentioned that Rebecca, soon after her arrival in Paris, took a very smart and leading position in the society of that capital, and was welcomed at some of the most distinguished houses of the restored French nobility. The English men of fashion in Paris courted her, too, to the disgust of the ladies their wives, who could not bear the parvenue. For some months the salons of the Faubourg St. Germain, in which her place was secured, and the splendours of the new Court, where she was received with much distinction, delighted and perhaps a little intoxicated Mrs. Crawley, who may have been disposed during this period of elation to slight the people—honest young military men mostly—who formed her husband’s chief society.
据说，丽贝卡抵达巴黎后不久，就在首都的社会中占据了非常聪明的领导地位，并受到了一些恢复重建的法国贵族最显赫的房屋的欢迎。巴黎的英国时尚男士也向她求爱，但令她们的妻子们感到厌恶的是，她们无法忍受这位暴发户。几个月来，她在圣日耳曼郊区的沙龙里得到了保障，在新宫的富丽堂皇中，她受到了极大的尊敬，克劳利夫人很高兴，也许还有点陶醉，她可能已经被安排好了。在这段兴高采烈的时期，她轻视了组成她丈夫主要社团的人们——大多数是诚实的年轻军人。

But the Colonel yawned sadly among the Duchesses and great ladies of the Court. The old women who played ecarte made such a noise about a five-franc piece that it was not worth Colonel Crawley’s while to sit down at a card-table. The wit of their conversation he could not appreciate, being ignorant of their language. And what good could his wife get, he urged, by making curtsies every night to a whole circle of Princesses? He left Rebecca presently to frequent these parties alone, resuming his own simple pursuits and amusements amongst the amiable friends of his own choice.
但上校在公爵夫人和宫廷贵妇中间伤心地打着哈欠。玩电子卡牌的老妇人对五法郎的棋子吵得那么厉害，以至于克劳利上校根本不值得花时间坐在牌桌旁。由于对他们的语言一无所知，他无法欣赏他们谈话中的机智。他敦促说，他的妻子每晚向一整圈公主行屈膝礼能得到什么好处呢？他不久就离开了丽贝卡，独自去参加这些聚会，在他自己选择的和蔼可亲的朋友中恢复了他自己简单的追求和娱乐。

The truth is, when we say of a gentleman that he lives elegantly on nothing a year, we use the word ‘nothing’ to signify something unknown; meaning, simply, that we don’t know how the gentleman in question defrays the expenses of his establishment. Now, our friend the Colonel had a great aptitude for all games of chance: and exercising himself, as he continually did, with the cards, the dicebox, or the cue, it is natural to suppose that he attained a much greater skill in the use of these articles than men can possess who only occasionally handle them. To use a cue at billiards well is like using a pencil, or a German flute, or a small-sword—you cannot master any one of these implements at first, and it is only by repeated study and perseverance, joined to a natural taste, that a man can excel in the handling of either. Now Crawley, from being only a brilliant amateur, had grown to be a consummate master of billiards. Like a great General, his genius used to rise with the danger, and when the luck had been unfavourable to him for a whole game, and the bets were consequently against him, he would, with consummate skill and boldness, make some prodigious hits which would restore the battle, and come in a victor at the end, to the astonishment of everybody—of everybody, that is, who was a stranger to his play. Those who were accustomed to see it were cautious how they staked their money against a man of such sudden resources and brilliant and overpowering skill.
事实上，当我们说一位绅士一年不劳而获，过着优雅的生活时，我们用“一无所有”这个词来表示某种未知的事物；简而言之，这意味着我们不知道这位先生如何支付他的机构的费用。现在，我们的朋友上校对所有机会游戏都有很强的天赋：正如他不断地用纸牌、骰子或球杆锻炼自己一样，很自然地认为他在这方面获得了更高的技能。与那些只是偶尔接触这些物品的人相比，他们更容易使用这些物品。打台球时要用好球杆，就像用铅笔、德国笛子、小剑一样，这些工具一开始是无法掌握的，只有反复学习、持之以恒，再加上自然的品味。 ，一个人可以在处理任何一个方面都表现出色。现在，克劳利已经从一名出色的业余球手成长为一名完美的台球大师。就像一位伟大的将军一样，他的天才总是在危险中崛起，当他整场比赛运气不佳，赌注对他不利时，他就会以精湛的技巧和大胆的勇气，打出一些惊人的击球，他会恢复战斗，并最终取得胜利，令所有人——也就是说，对他的戏剧不熟悉的人——都感到惊讶。那些见惯了这种情况的人都非常谨慎，他们如何把钱押在一个拥有如此突然的资源和才华横溢的压倒性技能的人身上。

At games of cards he was equally skilful; for though he would constantly lose money at the commencement of an evening, playing so carelessly and making such blunders, that newcomers were often inclined to think meanly of his talent; yet when roused to action and awakened to caution by repeated small losses, it was remarked that Crawley’s play became quite different, and that he was pretty sure of beating his enemy thoroughly before the night was over. Indeed, very few men could say that they ever had the better of him. His successes were so repeated that no wonder the envious and the vanquished spoke sometimes with bitterness regarding them. And as the French say of the Duke of Wellington, who never suffered a defeat, that only an astonishing series of lucky accidents enabled him to be an invariable winner; yet even they allow that he cheated at Waterloo, and was enabled to win the last great trick: so it was hinted at headquarters in England that some foul play must have taken place in order to account for the continuous successes of Colonel Crawley.
在打牌方面，他也同样娴熟。因为尽管他在晚上开始时总是输钱，但他玩得如此粗心，犯了如此大的错误，以至于新来者常常倾向于贬低他的才华。然而，当他被一再的小损失所唤醒并警醒时，克劳利的表现变得截然不同，他很有把握在今晚结束之前彻底击败敌人。事实上，很少有人能说他们曾经战胜过他。他的成功如此屡见不鲜，难怪嫉妒者和战败者有时会对他的成就充满怨恨。正如法国人对从未遭受过失败的惠灵顿公爵所说的那样，只有一系列令人惊讶的幸运事故才使他成为永远的胜利者。然而，即使他们也承认他在滑铁卢作弊，并得以赢得最后一场伟大的胜利：因此英国总部暗示，克劳利上校的不断成功一定是发生了一些不正当行为。

Though Frascati’s and the Salon were open at that time in Paris, the mania for play was so widely spread that the public gambling-rooms did not suffice for the general ardour, and gambling went on in private houses as much as if there had been no public means for gratifying the passion. At Crawley’s charming little reunions of an evening this fatal amusement commonly was practised—much to goodnatured little Mrs. Crawley’s annoyance. She spoke about her husband’s passion for dice with the deepest grief; she bewailed it to everybody who came to her house. She besought the young fellows never, never to touch a box; and when young Green, of the Rifles, lost a very considerable sum of money, Rebecca passed a whole night in tears, as the servant told the unfortunate young gentleman, and actually went on her knees to her husband to beseech him to remit the debt, and burn the acknowledgement. How could he? He had lost just as much himself to Blackstone of the Hussars, and Count Punter of the Hanoverian Cavalry. Green might have any decent time; but pay?—of course he must pay; to talk of burning IOU’s was child’s play.
尽管当时巴黎的弗拉斯卡蒂赌场和沙龙都在营业，但赌博的狂热却如此广泛蔓延，以至于公共赌博室不足以满足普遍的热情，赌博在私人住宅中继续进行，就像没有赌场一样。满足激情的公共手段。在克劳利迷人的小聚会上，人们经常进行这种致命的娱乐——这让善良的克劳利小太太很恼火。她怀着最深切的悲伤谈到了她丈夫对骰子的热情。她向每一个来到她家的人哀悼。她恳求年轻人永远、永远不要碰盒子。当步枪队的年轻格林损失了一大笔钱时，丽贝卡在仆人告诉这位不幸的年轻绅士时，整个晚上都在流泪，甚至跪到丈夫面前恳求他免除债务。 ，并烧毁确认书。他怎么可以？他同样也输给了骠骑兵的布莱克斯通和汉诺威骑兵的彭特伯爵。格林可能会度过一段愉快的时光；但要付钱吗？——他当然必须付钱；谈论烧掉欠条简直就是儿戏。

Other officers, chiefly young—for the young fellows gathered round Mrs. Crawley—came from her parties with long faces, having dropped more or less money at her fatal card-tables. Her house began to have an unfortunate reputation. The old hands warned the less experienced of their danger. Colonel O’Dowd, of the —th regiment, one of those occupying in Paris, warned Lieutenant Spooney of that corps. A loud and violent fracas took place between the infantry Colonel and his lady, who were dining at the Cafe de Paris, and Colonel and Mrs. Crawley; who were also taking their meal there. The ladies engaged on both sides. Mrs. O’Dowd snapped her fingers in Mrs. Crawley’s face and called her husband ‘no betther than a blackleg.’ Colonel Crawley challenged Colonel O’Dowd, C.B. The Commander-in-Chief hearing of the dispute sent for Colonel Crawley, who was getting ready the same pistols ‘which he shot Captain Marker,’ and had such a conversation with him that no duel took place. If Rebecca had not gone on her knees to General Tufto, Crawley would have been sent back to England; and he did not play, except with civilians, for some weeks after.
其他军官，主要是年轻人——因为克劳利夫人周围都是年轻人——从她的聚会上拉长了脸，在她致命的牌桌上丢了或多或少的钱。她的房子开始名声不佳。老手警告经验不足的人注意他们的危险。占领巴黎的第 1 团的奥多德上校向斯普尼中尉警告该团。在巴黎咖啡馆用餐的步兵上校和他的夫人以及克劳利上校和夫人之间发生了一场喧闹而暴力的争吵。他们也在那里吃饭。双方的女士们都参与其中。奥多德夫人对着克劳利夫人的脸打了个响指，称她的丈夫“不过是个黑腿”。克劳利上校向奥多德上校发起挑战。争端听证会的总司令派人去请克劳利上校，后者当时他正在准备“他射杀马克队长的那把手枪”，并与他进行了如此交谈，以至于没有发生决斗。如果丽贝卡没有向塔夫托将军下跪，克劳利就会被送回英国。此后的几个星期，除了和平民一起之外，他没有再玩。

But, in spite of Rawdon’s undoubted skill and constant successes, it became evident to Rebecca, considering these things, that their position was but a precarious one, and that, even although they paid scarcely anybody, their little capital would end one day by dwindling into zero. ‘Gambling,’ she would say, ‘dear, is good to help your income, but not as an income itself. Some day people may be tired of play, and then where are we?’ Rawdon acquiesced in the justice of her opinion; and in truth he had remarked that after a few nights of his little suppers, &c., gentlemen were tired of play with him, and, in spite of Rebecca’s charms, did not present themselves very eagerly.
但是，尽管罗登的技巧毋庸置疑，而且不断取得成功，但考虑到这些事情，丽贝卡很明显地意识到，他们的地位只是一个不稳定的状态，而且，即使他们几乎不支付任何人的工资，他们的小资本有一天也会因不断减少而结束。化为零。 “亲爱的，赌博可以增加你的收入，但它本身并不是一种收入。”她会说。有一天，人们可能厌倦了玩耍，那么我们在哪里？”罗登默许了她观点的公正性。事实上，他曾说过，吃了几个晚上的小晚餐后，绅士们已经厌倦了和他一起玩，尽管丽贝卡很有魅力，但他们并没有很热心地出现。

Easy and pleasant as their life at Paris was, it was after all only an idle dalliance and amiable trifling; and Rebecca saw that she must push Rawdon’s fortune in their own country. She must get him a place or appointment at home or in the colonies, and she determined to make a move upon England as soon as the way could be cleared for her. As a first step she had made Crawley sell out of the Guards and go on half-pay. His function as aide-de-camp to General Tufto had ceased previously. Rebecca laughed in all companies at that officer, at his toupee (which he mounted on coming to Paris), at his waistband, at his false teeth, at his pretensions to be a ladykiller above all, and his absurd vanity in fancying every woman whom he came near was in love with him. It was to Mrs. Brent, the beetle-browed wife of Mr. Commissary Brent, to whom the general transferred his attentions now—his bouquets, his dinners at the restaurateurs’, his opera-boxes, and his knick-knacks. Poor Mrs. Tufto was no more happy than before, and had still to pass long evenings alone with her daughters, knowing that her General was gone off scented and curled to stand behind Mrs. Brent’s chair at the play. Becky had a dozen admirers in his place, to be sure, and could cut her rival to pieces with her wit. But, as we have said, she. was growing tired of this idle social life: opera-boxes and restaurateur dinners palled upon her: nosegays could not be laid by as a provision for future years: and she could not live upon knickknacks, laced handkerchiefs, and kid gloves. She felt the frivolity of pleasure and longed for more substantial benefits.
尽管他们在巴黎的生活是轻松愉快的，但这毕竟只是一种无谓的调情和可亲的琐事。丽贝卡意识到她必须在自己的国家推动罗登的命运。她必须为他在国内或殖民地找到一个位置或任命，她决定一旦为她扫清道路就向英格兰采取行动。作为第一步，她让克劳利卖掉了警卫队并继续领取半薪。他作为塔夫托将军副官的职务此前已终止。丽贝卡在所有人中嘲笑那位军官，嘲笑他的假发（他来巴黎时戴上的），嘲笑他的腰带，嘲笑他的假牙，嘲笑他最重要的是自称是一个女人杀手，嘲笑他迷恋每一个女人的荒谬虚荣心。他几乎爱上了他。将军现在把注意力转移到了布伦特夫人身上，她是布伦特小卖部先生的眉毛浓密的妻子——他的花束、他在餐馆里的晚餐、他的歌剧包厢和他的小摆设。可怜的塔夫托夫人并不比以前更快乐，她仍然要独自和女儿们度过漫长的夜晚，因为她知道她的将军在看戏时已经散发出香味，蜷缩着站在布伦特夫人的椅子后面。贝基确实有十几个崇拜者代替他，并且可以用她的智慧将她的对手撕成碎片。但是，正如我们所说，她。她越来越厌倦了这种闲散的社交生活：歌剧院和餐馆老板的晚餐对她来说是乏味的：不能为未来的岁月准备花束：她不能靠小摆设、花边手帕和羊皮手套生活。她感受到了快乐的轻浮，渴望得到更实质性的好处。

At this juncture news arrived which was spread among the many creditors of the Colonel at Paris, and which caused them great satisfaction. Miss Crawley, the rich aunt from whom he expected his immense inheritance, was dying; the Colonel must haste to her bedside. Mrs. Crawley and her child would remain behind until he came to reclaim them. He departed for Calais, and having reached that place in safety, it might have been supposed that he went to Dover; but instead he took the diligence to Dunkirk, and thence travelled to Brussels, for which place he had a former predilection. The fact is, he owed more money at London than at Paris; and he preferred the quiet little Belgian city to either of the more noisy capitals.
就在这时，消息传来，在巴黎上校的众多债权人中传开了，他们非常满意。克劳利小姐，这位富有的阿姨，他希望从她那里得到巨额遗产，但她却快要死了。上校必须赶紧赶到她的床边。克劳利夫人和她的孩子将留在后面，直到他来接他们。他动身前往加来，安全抵达那里后，人们可能会认为他去了多佛；但他却把勤奋的精力带到了敦刻尔克，然后前往布鲁塞尔，这是他以前最喜欢的地方。事实上，他在伦敦欠下的钱比在巴黎还多。与喧闹的首都相比，他更喜欢安静的比利时小城。

Her aunt was dead. Mrs. Crawley ordered the most intense mourning for herself and little Rawdon. The Colonel was busy arranging the affairs of the inheritance. They could take the premier now, instead of the little entresol of the hotel which they occupied. Mrs. Crawley and the landlord had a consultation about the new hangings, an amicable wrangle about the carpets, and a final adjustment of everything except the bill. She went off in one of his carriages; her French bonne with her; the child by her side; the admirable landlord and landlady smiling farewell to her from the gate. General Tufto was furious when he heard she was gone, and Mrs. Brent furious with him for being furious; Lieutenant Spooney was cut to the heart; and the landlord got ready his best apartments previous to the return of the fascinating little woman and her husband. He serred the trunks which she left in his charge with the greatest care. They had been especially recommended to him by Madame Crawley. They were not, however, found to be particularly valuable when opened some time after.
她的姨妈死了。克劳利夫人下令为自己和小罗登举行最强烈的哀悼。上校正忙着安排遗产的事务。他们现在可以乘坐高级酒店，而不是他们所占据的酒店的小中间。克劳利夫人和房东就新的悬挂物进行了协商，就地毯问题进行了友好的争论，并对除账单之外的所有事项进行了最后的调整。她乘坐他的一辆马车离开了。她的法国风情；孩子在她身边；令人敬佩的房东夫妇在门口微笑着向她告别。塔夫托将军听说她走了，勃然大怒，布伦特夫人也因他的愤怒而勃然大怒。斯波尼中尉的心被割伤了。在迷人的小女人和她的丈夫回来之前，房东准备好了他最好的公寓。他小心翼翼地将她交给他保管的箱子整理好。它们是克劳利夫人特别推荐给他的。然而，打开一段时间后，人们发现它们并没有特别有价值。

But before she went to join her husband in the Belgic capital, Mrs. Crawley made an expedition into England, leaving behind her her little son upon the continent, under the care of her French maid.
但在前往比利时首都与丈夫团聚之前，克劳利夫人远征英格兰，把小儿子留在了欧洲大陆，由法国女仆照顾。

The parting between Rebecca and the little Rawdon did not cause either party much pain. She had not, to say truth, seen much of the young gentleman since his birth. After the amiable fashion of French mothers, she had placed him out at nurse in a village in the neighbourhood of Paris, where little Rawdon passed the first months of his life, not unhappily, with a numerous family of fosterbrothers in wooden shoes. His father would ride over many a time to see him here, and the elder Rawdon’s paternal heart glowed to see him rosy and dirty, shouting lustily, and happy in the making of mud-pies under the superintendence of the gardener’s wife, his nurse.
丽贝卡和小罗登的分离并没有给双方带来太大的痛苦。说实话，自从这位年轻绅士出生以来，她就没怎么见过他。按照法国母亲的和蔼可亲的做法，她把他安排在巴黎附近一个村庄里当护士，在那里，小罗登和许多穿着木鞋的养兄弟一起度过了他生命的最初几个月，这并不不幸。他的父亲多次骑马来看他，看到他脸色红润、脏兮兮、大声喊叫，在园丁的妻子（他的护士）的监督下制作泥馅饼，老罗顿的父亲的心就发光了。

Rebecca did not care much to go and see the son and heir. Once he spoiled a new dove-coloured pelisse of hers. He preferred his nurse’s caresses to his mamma’s, and when finally he quitted that jolly nurse and almost parent, he cried loudly for hours. He was only consoled by his mother’s promise that he should return to his nurse the next day; indeed the nurse herself, who probably would have been pained at the parting too, was told that the child would immediately be restored to her, and for some time awaited quite anxiously his return.
丽贝卡并不想去看儿子和继承人。有一次，他弄坏了她一件新的鸽子色外套。与妈妈相比，他更喜欢护士的爱抚，当他最终离开那个快乐的护士和几乎是父母的时候，他大声哭了几个小时。母亲答应他第二天就应该回到护士身边，这才让他感到安慰。事实上，护士本人可能也会因分离而感到痛苦，但她被告知孩子将立即回到她身边，并焦急地等待了他回来一段时间。

In fact, our friends may be said to have been among the first of that brood of hardy English adventurers who have subsequently invaded the Continent and swindled in all the capitals of Europe. The respect in those happy days of 1817-18 was very great for the wealth and honour of Britons. They had not then learned, as I am told, to haggle for bargains with the pertinacity which now distinguishes them. The great cities of Europe had not been as yet open to the enterprise of our rascals. And whereas there is now hardly a town of France or Italy in which you shall not see some noble countryman of our own, with that happy swagger and insolence of demeanour which we carry everywhere, swindling inn-landlords, passing fictitious cheques upon credulous bankers, robbing coachmakers of their carriages, goldsmiths of their trinkets, easy travellers of their money at cards, even public libraries of their books—thirty years ago you needed but to be a Milor Anglais, travelling in a private carriage, and credit was at your hand wherever you chose to seek it, and gentlemen, instead of cheating, were cheated. It was not for some weeks after the Crawleys’ departure that the landlord of the hotel which they occupied during their residence at Paris found out the losses which he had sustained: not until Madame Marabou, the milliner, made repeated visits with her little bill for articles supplied to Madame Crawley; not until Monsieur Didelot from Boule d’Or in the Palais Royal had asked half a dozen times whether cette charmante Miladi who had bought watches and bracelets of him was de retour. It is a fact that even the poor gardener’s wife, who had nursed madame’s child, was never paid after the first six months for that supply of the milk of human kindness with which she had furnished the lusty and healthy little Rawdon. No, not even the nurse was paid—the Crawleys were in too great a hurry to remember their trifling debt to her. As for the landlord of the hotel, his curses against the English nation were violent for the rest of his natural life. He asked all travellers whether they knew a certain Colonel Lor Crawley—avec sa femme une petite dame, tres spirituelle. ‘Ah, Monsieur!’ he would add—‘ils m’ont affreusement vole.’ It was melancholy to hear his accents as he spoke of that catastrophe.
事实上，我们的朋友可以说是第一批勇敢的英国冒险家之一，他们随后入侵了欧洲大陆，并在欧洲所有首都进行了诈骗。在 1817-18 年那些幸福的日子里，英国人的财富和荣誉受到了极大的尊重。据我所知，他们当时还没有学会像现在这样执着地讨价还价。欧洲的大城市还没有对我们这些流氓的事业开放。现在，在法国或意大利的任何一个城镇里，你几乎都不会看到我们自己的贵族同胞，他们带着我们随处可见的那种快乐的招摇和傲慢的举止，欺骗旅馆老板，向轻信的银行家发放虚假支票，抢走马车匠的马车、金匠的小饰品、轻松旅行者的卡钱，甚至抢走公共图书馆的书籍——三十年前，你只需要成为一名米洛·英国人，乘坐私人马车旅行，信用就在你手中无论你选择寻求什么，先生们都不是欺骗，而是被欺骗。克劳利夫妇离开几周后，他们在巴黎居住期间所住的旅馆的房东才发现自己所遭受的损失：直到女帽设计师马拉布夫人带着她的小额账单多次拜访。提供给克劳利夫人的物品；直到皇宫金球奖的狄德洛先生问了六次，买了他的手表和手镯的米拉迪是否可以回来。 事实上，即使是可怜的园丁的妻子，她为夫人的孩子喂奶，在头六个月后也从未得到报酬，因为她为精力充沛、健康的小罗登提供了人类仁慈的牛奶。不，连护士的工资都没有——克劳利一家太着急，忘记了他们欠她的微不足道的债务。至于旅馆的房东，他对英国民族的咒骂在他的余生中一直是暴力的。他询问所有旅客是否认识某位洛尔·克劳利上校——avec sa femme une petite dame, tresspiruelle。 “啊，先生！”他会补充道，“这不是令人愉快的田鼠。”当他谈到那场灾难时，听到他的口音令人感到忧郁。

Rebecca’s object in her journey to London was to effect a kind of compromise with her husband’s numerous creditors, and by offering them a dividend of ninepence or a shilling in the pound, to secure a return for him into his own country. It does not become us to trace the steps which she took in the conduct of this most difficult negotiation; but, having shown them to their satisfaction that the sum which she was empowered to offer was all her husband’s available capital, and having convinced them that Colonel Crawley would prefer a perpetual retirement on the Continent to a residence in this country with his debts unsettled; having proved to them that there was no possibility of money accruing to him from other quarters, and no earthly chance of their getting a larger dividend than that which she was empowered to offer, she brought the Colonel’s creditors unanimously to accept her proposals, and purchased with fifteen hundred pounds of ready money more than ten times that amount of debts.
丽贝卡前往伦敦的目的是与她丈夫的众多债权人达成某种妥协，并向他们提供九便士或一英镑先令的股息，以确保他返回自己的国家。我们不应该追踪她在这场最困难的谈判中所采取的步骤；但是，让他们满意的是，她有权提供的金额是她丈夫的全部可用资本，并让他们相信克劳利上校宁愿在欧洲大陆永久退休，也不愿在这个国家居住而债务未清；她向他们证明，他不可能从其他方面获得金钱，而且他们也没有机会获得比她有权提供的更多的股息，她让上校的债权人一致接受她的建议，并购买了带着一千五百英镑的现钱，债务数额是十倍以上。

Mrs. Crawley employed no lawyer in the transaction. The matter was so simple, to have or to leave, as she justly observed, that she made the lawyers of the creditors themselves do the business. And Mr. Lewis representing Mr. Davids, of Red Lion Square, and Mr. Moss acting for Mr. Manasseh of Cursitor Street (chief creditors of the Colonel’s), complimented his lady upon the brilliant way in which she did business, and declared that there was no professional man who could beat her.
克劳利夫人在此次交易中没有聘请律师。正如她公正地指出的那样，要么留下要么离开，事情是如此简单，以至于她让债权人的律师自己来做这件事。刘易斯先生代表红狮广场的戴维斯先生，莫斯先生代表库西托街的马纳西先生（上校的主要债权人），称赞他的女士处理业务的出色方式，并宣称：没有一个职业男人可以打败她。

Rebecca received their congratulations with perfect modesty; ordered a bottle of sherry and a bread cake to the little dingy lodgings where she dwelt, while conducting the business, to treat the enemy’s lawyers: shook hands with them at parting, in excellent good humour, and returned straightway to the Continent, to rejoin her husband and son and acquaint the former with the glad news of his entire liberation. As for the latter, he had been considerably neglected during his mother’s absence by Mademoiselle Genevieve, her French maid; for that young woman, contracting an attachment for a soldier in the garrison of Calais, forgot her charge in the society of this militaire, and little Rawdon very narrowly escaped drowning on Calais sands at this period, where the absent Genevieve had left and lost him.
丽贝卡非常谦虚地接受了他们的祝贺。在处理生意时，她点了一瓶雪利酒和一块面包蛋糕到她居住的肮脏小住处，招待敌人的律师：在分手时与他们握手，心情非常好，然后立即返回大陆，重新汇合她的丈夫和儿子，并向前者告知他完全解放的好消息。至于后者，在他母亲不在期间，他受到法国女仆吉纳维芙小姐的极大忽视。因为那个年轻女子，与加莱驻军的一名士兵签约，忘记了她在这支军队的社会中的职责，而小罗登此时险些溺水在加莱的沙滩上，缺席的吉纳维芙离开并失去了他。

And so, Colonel and Mrs. Crawley came to London: and it is at their house in Curzon Street, May Fair, that they really showed the skill which must be possessed by those who would live on the resources above named.
因此，克劳利上校和夫人来到了伦敦：正是在他们位于梅费尔柯松街的家中，他们真正展示了那些依靠上述资源生活的人必须具备的技能。

Chapter XXXVII
第三十七章


The Subject Continued
主题继续

In the first place, and as a matter of the greatest necessity, we are bound to describe how a house may be got for nothing a year. These mansions are to be had either unfurnished, where, if you have credit with Messrs. Gillows or Bantings, you can get them splendidly montees and decorated entirely according to your own fancy; or they are to be let furnished, a less troublesome and complicated arrangement to most parties. It was so that Crawley and his wife preferred to hire their house.
首先，作为最必要的事情，我们必须描述如何一年不花钱就能得到一所房子。这些豪宅要么不带家具，如果您对吉洛斯或班廷斯先生有信心，您可以为它们购买华丽的蒙特斯，并完全按照您自己的喜好进行装饰；或者让他们带家具，这对大多数当事人来说是一种不那么麻烦和复杂的安排。因此克劳利和他的妻子更愿意租用他们的房子。

Before Mr. Bowls came to preside over Miss Crawley’s house and cellar in Park Lane, that lady had had for a butler a Mr. Raggles, who was born on the family estate of Queen’s Crawley, and indeed was a younger son of a gardener there. By good conduct, a handsome person and calves, and a grave demeanour, Raggles rose from the knife-board to the footboard of the carriage; from the footboard to the butler’s pantry. When he had been a certain number of years at the head of Miss Crawley’s establishment, where he had had good wages, fat perquisites, and plenty of opportunities of saving, he announced that he was about to contract a matrimonial alliance with a late cook of Miss Crawley’s, who had subsisted in an honourable manner by the exercise of a mangle, and the keeping of a small greengrocer’s shop in the neighbourhood. The truth is, that the ceremony had been clandestinely performed some years back; although the news of Mr. Raggles’ marriage was first brought to Miss Crawley by a little boy and girl of seven and eight years of age, whose continual presence in the kitchen had attracted the attention of Miss Briggs.
在鲍尔斯先生来管理克劳利小姐在公园巷的房子和地窖之前，那位女士曾聘请了拉格斯先生作为管家，拉格斯先生出生在皇后克劳利的家族庄园里，实际上是那里一位园丁的小儿子。 。凭借良好的品行、英俊的身材、英俊的身材和严肃的举止，拉格斯从刀板上站到了马车的踏板上。从脚踏板到管家的厨房。当他在克劳利小姐的公司当了一定年头的人后，他在那里享有丰厚的工资、丰厚的津贴和大量的储蓄机会，他宣布他即将与一位已故的厨师缔结婚姻联盟。克劳利小姐的家靠磨床和在附近开一家小蔬菜店过着体面的生活。事实上，这个仪式是几年前秘密举行的。尽管拉格斯先生结婚的消息首先是由一个七岁和八岁的小男孩和小女孩告诉克劳利小姐的，他们经常出现在厨房里引起了布里格斯小姐的注意。

Mr. Raggles then retired and personally undertook the superintendence of the small shop and the greens. He added milk and cream, eggs and country-fed pork to his stores, contenting himself whilst other retired butlers were vending spirits in public houses, by dealing in the simplest country produce. And having a good connection amongst the butlers in the neighbourhood, and a snug back parlour where he and Mrs. Raggles received them, his milk, cream, and eggs got to be adopted by many of the fraternity, and his profits increased every year. Year after year he quietly and modestly amassed money, and when at length that snug and complete bachelor’s residence at No. 201, Curzon Street, May Fair, lately the residence of the Honourable Frederick Deuceace, gone abroad, with its rich and appropriate furniture by the first makers, was brought to the hammer, who should go in and purchase the lease and furniture of the house but Charles Raggles? A part of the money he borrowed, it is true, and at rather a high interest, from a brother butler, but the chief part he paid down, and it was with no small pride that Mrs. Raggles found herself sleeping in a bed of carved mahogany, with silk curtains, with a prodigious cheval glass opposite to her, and a wardrobe which would contain her, and Raggles, and all the family.
拉格斯先生随后退休，亲自负责管理小商店和果岭。当其他退休管家在酒馆里贩卖烈酒时，他在自己的店里添加了牛奶、奶油、鸡蛋和乡村饲养的猪肉，通过经营最简单的乡村产品来满足自己。由于与附近的管家有良好的关系，还有一个舒适的后客厅，他和拉格斯夫人在那里接待他们，他的牛奶、奶油和鸡蛋被许多兄弟会采用，他的利润每年都在增加。年复一年，他默默地、谦虚地积累着金钱，终于在梅菲尔市柯松街201号建造了那座舒适而完整的单身汉住所，最近是出国的弗雷德里克·杜斯阁下的住所，里面有丰富而合适的家具。第一批制造商被带到了锤子上，除了查尔斯·拉格斯（Charles Raggles）之外，谁应该进去购买房子的租赁和家具？确实，他从一位管家兄弟那里借了一部分钱，而且利息相当高，但他还清了大部分钱，拉格斯夫人发现自己睡在一张床铺上，这让他感到非常自豪。雕刻的桃花心木，丝绸窗帘，她对面有一个巨大的骑士玻璃，还有一个衣柜，可以容纳她、拉格斯和全家人。

Of course, they did not intend to occupy permanently an apartment so splendid. It was in order to let the house again that Raggles purchased it. As soon as a tenant was found, he subsided into the greengrocer’s shop once more; but a happy thing it was for him to walk out of that tenement and into Curzon Street, and there survey his house—his own house—with geraniums in the window and a carved bronze knocker. The footman occasionally lounging at the area railing, treated him with respect; the cook took her green stuff at his house and called him Mr. Landlord, and there was not one thing the tenants did, or one dish which they had for dinner, that Raggles might not know of, if he liked.
当然，他们并不打算永久占据如此华丽的公寓。拉格斯买下这栋房子就是为了再次出租这栋房子。找到租客后，他又躲进了蔬菜水果店。但对他来说，走出那间公寓，走进柯曾街，审视他的房子——他自己的房子——窗子上种着天竺葵，还有一个雕刻的青铜门环，这对他来说是一件快乐的事情。男仆偶尔会懒洋洋地靠在区域栏杆上，对他表示尊重。厨师在他家里拿了她的绿色食品，并称他为“房东先生”，如果拉格斯愿意的话，房客们做的每一件事，或者他们晚餐吃的一道菜，他都可能不知道。

He was a good man; good and happy. The house brought him in so handsome a yearly income that he was determined to send his children to good schools, and accordingly, regardless of expense, Charles was sent to boarding at Dr. Swishtail’s, Sugar-cane Lodge, and little Matilda to Miss Peckover’s, Laurentinum House, Clapham.
他是个好人；美好而快乐。这座房子给他带来了如此可观的年收入，他决心送孩子们去好学校，因此，无论花费多少，查尔斯都被送到甘蔗小屋的斯维什泰尔医生家寄宿，小玛蒂尔达则被送到佩科弗小姐家寄宿。 ，劳伦丁楼，克拉彭。

Raggles loved and adored the Crawley family as the author of all his prosperity in life. He had a silhouette of his mistress in his back shop, and a drawing of the Porter’s Lodge at Queen’s Crawley, done by that spinster herself in India ink—and the only addition he made to the decorations of the Curzon Street House was a print of Queen’s Crawley in Hampshire, the seat of Sir Walpole Crawley, Baronet, who was represented in a gilded car drawn by six white horses, and passing by a lake covered with swans, and barges containing ladies in hoops, and musicians with flags and penwigs. Indeed Raggles thought there was no such palace in all the world, and no such august family.
拉格斯热爱并崇拜克劳利家族，认为他们是他一生繁荣的根源。他在他的后店里画了一张情妇的剪影，还有一张克劳利女王的看门人小屋的图画，是那位老处女亲自用印度墨水画的——而他在柯松街别墅的装饰上唯一添加的东西是一张印刷品汉普郡的皇后克劳利，从男爵沃波尔·克劳利爵士的所在地，他乘坐一辆由六匹白马拉着的镀金汽车，经过一个布满天鹅的湖，驳船上载着戴箍的女士，还有拿着旗帜和假发的音乐家。事实上，拉格斯认为世界上没有这样的宫殿，也没有这样威严的家族。

As luck would have it, Raggles’ house in Curzon Street was to let when Rawdon and his wife returned to London. The Colonel knew it and its owner quite well; the latter’s connection with the Crawley family had been kept up constantly, for Raggles helped Mr. Bowls whenever Miss Crawley received friends. And the old man not only let his house to the Colonel but officiated as his butler whenever he had company; Mrs. Raggles operating in the kitchen below and sending up dinners of which old Miss Crawley herself might have approved. This was the way, then, Crawley got his house for nothing; for though Raggles had to pay taxes and rates, and the interest of the mortgage to the brother butler; and the insurance of his life; and the charges for his children at school; and the value of the meat and drink which his own family—and for a time that of Colonel Crawley too—consumed; and though the poor wretch was utterly ruined by the transaction, his children being flung on the streets, and himself driven into the Fleet Prison: yet somebody must pay even for gentlemen who live for nothing a year—and so it was this unlucky Raggles was made the representative of Colonel Crawley’s defective capital.
幸运的是，当罗登和他的妻子回到伦敦时，拉格斯在寇松街的房子就出租了。上校非常了解它和它的主人。后者与克劳利一家的联系一直保持着，因为每当克劳利小姐接待朋友时，拉格斯都会帮助鲍尔斯先生。老人不仅把他的房子租给了上校，而且每当他有客人的时候，他就担任他的管家。拉格斯太太在下面的厨房里忙碌着，送来了老克劳利小姐本人可能会同意的晚餐。克劳利就是这样免费得到了他的房子的。因为虽然拉格斯必须向管家兄弟缴纳税款和税款，以及抵押贷款的利息。以及他的生命保险；以及孩子在学校的费用；以及他自己和克劳利上校的家人所消耗的肉和饮料的价值；尽管这个可怜的家伙在这次交易中彻底破产了，他的孩子们被扔到了街上，他自己也被送进了舰队监狱：但即使是那些一年一无所获的绅士，也必须有人付出代价——所以这个不幸的拉格斯成为克劳利上校有缺陷的首都的代表。

I wonder how many families are driven to roguery and to ruin by great practitioners in Crawlers way?—how many great noblemen rob their petty tradesmen, condescend to swindle their poor retainers out of wretched little sums and cheat for a few shillings? When we read that a noble nobleman has left for the Continent, or that another noble nobleman has an execution in his house—and that one or other owes six or seven millions, the defeat seems glorious even, and we respect the victim in the vastness of his ruin. But who pities a poor barber who can’t get his money for powdering the footmen’s heads; or a poor carpenter who has ruined himself by fixing up ornaments and pavilions for my lady’s dejeuner; or the poor devil of a tailor whom the steward patronizes, and who has pledged all he is worth, and more, to get the liveries ready, which my lord has done him the honour to bespeak? When the great house tumbles down, these miserable wretches fall under it unnoticed: as they say in the old legends, before a man goes to the devil himself, he sends plenty of other souls thither.
不知有多少家庭被爬行者的大行家逼入流氓行径，走向破产？有多少大贵族抢劫小商贩，屈尊骗取可怜的家臣的可怜的小钱，骗取几先令？当我们读到一位高贵的贵族远赴欧洲大陆，或者另一位高贵的贵族在他的家中被处决——而其中一人欠下六七百万的债务时，失败甚至显得光荣，我们在茫茫人海中尊重受害者他的毁灭。但谁会怜悯一个可怜的理发师，因为他给男仆的头上抹粉而拿不到钱呢？或者一个可怜的木匠，因为为夫人的晚宴安装装饰品和亭台而毁了自己；或者是管家光顾的可怜的裁缝，他已经承诺了自己的全部价值，甚至更多，准备好制服，我的主人已经让他荣幸地指定了？当大房子倒塌时，这些可怜的人就不知不觉地倒在了下面：正如古老传说中所说，在一个人亲自走向魔鬼之前，他会送很多其他的灵魂到那里去。

Rawdon and his wife generously gave their patronage to all such of Miss Crawley’s tradesmen and purveyors as chose to serve them. Some were willing enough, especially the poor ones. It was wonderful to see the pertinacity with which the washerwoman from Tooting brought the cart every Saturday, and her bills week after week. Mr. Raggles himself had to supply the greengroceries. The bill for servants’ porter at the Fortune of War public house is a curiosity in the chronicles of beer. Every servant also was owed the greater part of his wages, and thus kept up perforce an interest in the house. Nobody in fact was paid. Not the blacksmith who opened the lock; nor the glazier who mended the pane; nor the jobber who let the carriage; nor the groom who drove it; nor the butcher who provided the leg of mutton; nor the coals which roasted it; nor the cook who basted it; nor the servants who ate it: and this I am given to understand is not unfrequently the way in which people live elegantly on nothing a year.
罗登和他的妻子慷慨地赞助了所有克劳利小姐选择为他们服务的商人和供应商。有些人很愿意，尤其是穷人。看到来自图廷的洗衣女工每周六都执着地推车，以及一周又一周的账单，真是太棒了。拉格斯先生必须亲自提供蔬菜食品。 《战争财富》酒馆的仆人搬运工账单是啤酒史上的一件奇事。每个仆人还被拖欠大部分工资，因此必须保留对房子的兴趣。事实上没有人得到报酬。不是开锁的铁匠；也没有修补玻璃的玻璃匠；也不是出租马车的商人；也没有驾驶它的新郎；也不是提供羊腿的屠夫；也没有烤它的煤；也不是涂油的厨师；也没有吃过它的仆人：据我所知，人们一年不花任何钱过着优雅的生活，这并不罕见。

In a little town such things cannot be done without remark. We know there the quantity of milk our neighbour takes and espy the joint or the fowls which are going in for his dinner. So, probably, 200 and 202 in Curzon Street might know what was going on in the house between them, the servants communicating through the area-railings; but Crawley and his wife and his friends did not know 200 and 202. When you came to 201 there was a hearty welcome, a kind smile, a good dinner, and a jolly shake of the hand from the host and hostess there, just for all the world as if they had been undisputed masters of three or four thousand a year—and so they were, not in money, but in produce and labour—if they did not pay for the mutton, they had it: if they did not give bullion in exchange for their wine, how should we know? Never was better claret at any man’s table than at honest Rawdon’s; dinners more gay and neatly served. His drawing-rooms were the prettiest, little, modest salons conceivable: they were decorated with the greatest taste, and a thousand knickknacks from Paris, by Rebecca: and when she sat at her piano trilling songs with a lightsome heart, the stranger voted himself in a little paradise of domestic comfort and agreed that, if the husband was rather stupid, the wife was charming, and the dinners the pleasantest in the world.
在一个小镇里，这样的事情不可能不引起别人的注意。我们知道我们的邻居喝了多少牛奶，并监视着他晚餐的食物或家禽。因此，也许，柯松街的 200 和 202 可能知道他们之间的房子里发生了什么，仆人们通过区域栏杆进行交流；但克劳利和他的妻子以及他的朋友们不知道200和202。当你来到201时，你会受到热烈的欢迎，友善的微笑，美味的晚餐，还有男女主人愉快地握手，只是为了全世界的人都认为他们是每年三四千人的无可争议的主人——所以他们不是在金钱上，而是在产品和劳动上——如果他们不付羊肉的钱，他们就拥有羊肉：如果他们不付钱，他们就拥有了羊肉。用金条换酒，怎么知道呢？在任何男人的餐桌上，没有比诚实的罗登酒馆更好的红葡萄酒了。晚餐更加愉快，服务也更整洁。他的客厅是可以想象到的最漂亮、最小、最朴素的沙龙：它们装饰得很有品味，还有丽贝卡从巴黎带来的一千件小玩意儿：当她坐在钢琴前，怀着轻松的心，弹奏着颤音的歌曲时，陌生人给自己投票了。在家庭舒适的小天堂里，我们一致认为，如果丈夫相当愚蠢，妻子就很迷人，晚餐是世界上最愉快的。

Rebecca’s wit, cleverness, and flippancy made her speedily the vogue in London among a certain class. You saw demure chariots at her door, out of which stepped very great people. You beheld her carriage in the park, surrounded by dandies of note. The little box in the third tier of the opera was crowded with heads constantly changing; but it must be confessed that the ladies held aloof from her, and that their doors were shut to our little adventurer.
丽贝卡的机智、聪明和轻率使她很快在伦敦某个阶层中流行起来。你看到她门口停着端庄的战车，从车里走出来的是非常伟大的人物。你在公园里看到她的马车，周围都是著名的花花公子。歌剧院第三层的小包厢里挤满了人，脑袋不断变换。但必须承认的是，女士们对她敬而远之，她们对我们的小冒险家关闭了大门。

With regard to the world of female fashion and its customs, the present writer of course can only speak at second hand. A man can no more penetrate or under-stand those mysteries than he can know what the ladies talk about when they go upstairs after dinner. It is only by inquiry and perseverance that one sometimes gets hints of those secrets; and by a similar diligence every person who treads the Pall Mall pavement and frequents the clubs of this metropolis knows, either through his own experience or through some acquaintance with whom he plays at billiards or shares the joint, something about the genteel world of London, and how, as there are men (such as Rawdon Crawley, whose position we mentioned before) who cut a good figure to the eyes of the ignorant world and to the apprentices in the park, who behold them consorting with the most notorious dandies there, so there are ladies, who may be called men’s women, being welcomed entirely by all the gentlemen and cut or slighted by all their wives. Mrs. Firebrace is of this sort; the lady with the beautiful fair ringlets whom you see every day in Hyde Park, surrounded by the greatest and most famous dandies of this empire. Mrs. Rockwood is another, whose parties are announced laboriously in the fashionable newspapers and with whom you see that all sorts of ambassadors and great noblemen dine; and many more might be mentioned had they to do with the history at present in hand. But while simple folks who are out of the world, or country people with a taste for the genteel, behold these ladies in their seeming glory in public places, or envy them from afar off, persons who are better instructed could inform them that these envied ladies have no more chance of establishing themselves in ‘society,’ than the benighted squire’s wife in Somersetshire who reads of their doings in the Morning Post. Men living about London are aware of these awful truths. You hear how pitilessly many ladies of seeming rank and wealth are excluded from this ‘society.’ The frantic efforts which they make to enter this circle, the meannesses to which they submit, the insults which they undergo, are matters of wonder to those who take human or womankind for a study; and the pursuit of fashion under difficulties would be a fine theme for any very great person who had the wit, the leisure, and the knowledge of the English language necessary for the compiling of such a history.
对于女性时尚的世界和习俗，笔者当然只能说二手话。一个男人无法洞察或理解这些奥秘，就像他无法知道女士们晚饭后上楼时在谈论什么一样。只有通过探究和坚持不懈，人们有时才能获得这些秘密的暗示。通过类似的努力，每一个走过 Pall Mall 人行道并经常光顾这座大都市俱乐部的人都知道，无论是通过自己的经验，还是通过与他一起打台球或共用大麻的熟人，了解伦敦的上流社会，以及如何，因为有些人（例如罗登·克劳利，我们之前提到过他的地位）在无知的世界和公园里的学徒眼中树立了良好的形象，他们看到他们与那里最臭名昭著的花花公子交往，因此，有些女士，可以称为男人的女人，完全受到所有绅士的欢迎，却受到所有妻子的伤害或轻视。法尔布雷斯夫人就是这样的人。你每天在海德公园都能看到的那个留着美丽卷发的女士，周围都是这个帝国最伟大、最著名的花花公子。洛克伍德夫人是另一个人，她的聚会在时尚报纸上煞费苦心地刊登出来，你会看到各种各样的大使和伟大的贵族都和她一起用餐；如果它们与当前的历史有关，还可以提及更多。 但是，虽然那些远离尘世的普通人，或者有上流社会品味的乡下人，在公共场合看到这些女士们在公共场合看起来光鲜亮丽，或者远远地羡慕她们，但受过更好教育的人可以告诉他们，这些羡慕的人女士们没有比萨默塞特郡无知乡绅的妻子更多的机会在“社会”中立足，她在《晨报》上读到了她们的所作所为。居住在伦敦的人们都知道这些可怕的事实。你会听到许多看似地位和财富的女士是多么无情地被排除在这个“社会”之外。她们为进入这个圈子所做的疯狂努力，她们所遭受的卑鄙行为，她们所遭受的侮辱，对于那些关注这一点的人来说都是令人惊奇的事情。以人类或女性为研究对象；对于任何一个拥有编撰这样一部历史所必需的智慧、闲暇和英语知识的伟人来说，在困难中追求时尚将是一个很好的主题。

Now the few female acquaintances whom Mrs. Crawley had known abroad not only declined to visit her when she came to this side of the Channel, but cut her severely when they met in public places. It was curious to see how the great ladies forgot her, and no doubt not altogether a pleasant study to Rebecca. When Lady Bareacres met her in the waiting-room at the opera, she gathered her daughters about her as if they would be contaminated by a touch of Becky, and retreating a step or two, placed herself in front of them, and stared at her little enemy. To stare Becky out of countenance required a severer glance than even the frigid old Bareacres could shoot out of her dismal eyes. When Lady de la Mole, who had ridden a score of times by Becky’s side at Brussels, met Mrs. Crawley’s open carriage in Hyde Park, her Ladyship was quite blind, and could not in the least recognize her former friend. Even Mrs. Blenkinsop, the banker’s wife, cut her at church. Becky went regularly to church now; it was edifying to see her enter there with Rawdon by her side, carrying a couple of large gilt prayer-books, and afterwards going through the ceremony with the gravest resignation.
现在，克劳利夫人在国外认识的几位女性熟人不仅在她来到英吉利海峡这边时拒绝拜访她，而且在公共场所见面时严厉地伤害了她。令人好奇的是，那些伟大的女士们如何忘记了她，这对丽贝卡来说无疑不是一个令人愉快的研究。当巴里亚克斯夫人在歌剧院的候诊室遇见她时，她把女儿们聚集在自己身边，仿佛她们会被贝基的触摸所污染，然后退后一两步，站在她们面前，盯着她看。小敌人。要凝视贝基，她的眼神必须更加严厉，甚至比她那双阴郁的眼睛里射出的冰冷的老巴雷埃克斯还要严厉。曾在布鲁塞尔陪伴贝基数十次的德拉莫尔夫人在海德公园遇见克劳利夫人的敞篷马车时，她的夫人双目失明，根本认不出她以前的朋友。就连银行家的妻子布伦金索普夫人也在教堂里割伤了她。贝基现在经常去教堂；看到她走进去，罗登在她身边，手里拿着几本镀金的大祈祷书，然后以最严肃的态度完成了仪式，真是令人受启发。

Rawdon at first felt very acutely the slights which were passed upon his wife, and was inclined to be gloomy and savage. He talked of calling out the husbands or brothers of every one of the insolent women who did not pay a proper respect to his wife; and it was only by the strongest commands and entreaties on her part that he was brought into keeping a decent behaviour. ‘You can’t shoot me into society,’ she said good-naturedly. ‘Remember, my dear, that I was but a governess, and you, you poor silly old man, have the worst reputation for debt, and dice, and all sorts of wickedness. We shall get quite as many friends as we want by and by, and in the meanwhile you must be a good boy and obey your schoolmistress in everything she tells you to do. When we heard that your aunt had left almost everything to Pitt and his wife, do you remember what a rage you were in? You would have told all Paris, if I had not made you keep your temper, and where would you have been now?—in prison at Ste. Pelagie for debt, and not established in London in a handsome house, with every comfort about you—you were in such a fury you were ready to murder your brother, you wicked Cain you, and what good would have come of remaining angry? All the rage in the world won’t get us your aunt’s money; and it is much better that we should be friends with your brother’s family than enemies, as those foolish Butes are. When your father dies, Queen’s Crawley will be a pleasant house for you and me to pass the winter in. If we are ruined, you can carve and take charge of the stable, and I can be a governess to Lady Jane’s children. Ruined! fiddlede-dee! I will get you a good place before that; or Pitt and his little boy will die, and we will be Sir Rawdon and my lady. While there is life, there is hope, my dear, and I intend to make a man of you yet. Who sold your horses for you? Who paid your debts for you?’ Rawdon was obliged to confess that he owed all these benefits to his wife, and to trust himself to her guidance for the future.
罗登一开始对妻子受到的轻视感到非常强烈，并变得阴郁而野蛮。他谈到要斥责每一位没有对他的妻子给予适当尊重的无礼妇女的丈夫或兄弟；只有在她最强烈的命令和恳求下，他才得以保持正派的行为。 “你不能把我推入社会，”她善意地说。 “记住，亲爱的，我只是一个家庭女教师，而你，你这个可怜的傻老头，因债务、骰子和各种邪恶而享有最坏的名声。渐渐地，我们会得到尽可能多的朋友，同时你必须是一个好孩子，服从你的女老师，做她告诉你做的一切。当我们听说你的姨妈把几乎所有的东西都留给了皮特和他的妻子时，你还记得你当时有多愤怒吗？如果我没有让你控制脾气，你就会告诉整个巴黎，你现在会在哪里？——在圣彼得堡的监狱里。佩拉吉还债，又没有在伦敦建立一栋漂亮的房子，让你感到一切舒适——你是如此愤怒，你准备谋杀你的兄弟，你这个邪恶的该隐，保持愤怒有什么好处呢？全世界的愤怒都换不到你姨妈的钱；我们应该和你兄弟的家人成为朋友，而不是像那些愚蠢的布特斯那样成为敌人。当你父亲去世后，皇后克劳利将成为你我过冬的舒适之家。如果我们破产了，你可以雕刻并管理马厩，而我可以成为简夫人孩子们的家庭教师。毁了！胡说！在那之前我会给你安排一个好地方；否则皮特和他的小男孩就会死去，而我们将成为罗登爵士和我的夫人。 只要还有生命，就有希望，亲爱的，我还打算让你成为一个男人。谁把你的马卖给你了？谁为你偿还了债务？”罗登不得不承认，他将所有这些好处归功于他的妻子，并相信她对未来的指导。

Indeed, when Miss Crawley quitted the world, and that money for which all her relatives had been fighting so eagerly was finally left to Pitt, Bute Crawley, who found that only five thousand pounds had been left to him instead of the twenty upon which he calculated, was in such a fury at his disappointment that he vented it in savage abuse upon his nephew; and the quarrel always rankling between them ended in an utter breach of intercourse. Rawdon Crawley’s conduct, on the other hand, who got but a hundred pounds, was such as to astonish his brother and delight his sister-in-law, who was disposed to look kindly upon all the members of her husband’s family. He wrote to his brother a very frank, manly, good-humoured letter from Paris. He was aware, he said, that by his own marriage he had forfeited his aunt’s favour; and though he did not disguise his disappointment that she should have been so entirely relentless towards him, he was glad that the money was still kept in their branch of the family, and heartily congratulated his brother on his good fortune. He sent his affectionate remembrances to his sister, and hoped to have her good-will for Mrs. Rawdon; and the letter concluded with a postscript to Pitt in the latter lady’s own handwriting. She, too, begged to join in her husband’s congratulations. She should ever remember Mr. Crawley’s kindness to her in early days when she was a friendless orphan, the instructress of his little sisters, in whose welfare she still took the tenderest interest. She wished him every happiness in his married life, and, asking his permission to offer her remembrances to Lady Jane (of whose goodness all the world informed her), she hoped that one day she might be allowed to present her little boy to his uncle and aunt, and begged to bespeak for him their good-will and protection.
事实上，当克劳利小姐离开这个世界时，她所有的亲戚们都在拼命争取的那笔钱最终留给了皮特，布特·克劳利，他发现留给他的只剩下五千英镑，而不是他原本的二十英镑。他对自己的失望感到非常愤怒，粗暴地辱骂了他的侄子。他们之间经常发生的争吵最终导致了交往的彻底破裂。另一方面，罗登·克劳利的收入只有一百英镑，他的行为却让他的兄弟感到惊讶，让他的嫂子高兴，她对她丈夫家里的所有成员都很友善。他从巴黎给弟弟写了一封非常坦率、有男子气概、幽默的信。他说，他知道自己的婚姻使他失去了姨妈的宠爱。虽然他并没有掩饰自己对她竟然对他如此无情的失望，但他很高兴这笔钱仍然留在他们的家族中，并衷心祝贺他哥哥的好运。他向妹妹表达了深切的怀念，并希望她对罗登夫人表示好感。这封信的结尾是皮特女士亲笔写的附言。她也请求加入她丈夫的祝贺行列。她应该永远记得克劳利先生早年对她的善意，当时她还是一个没有朋友的孤儿，是他妹妹们的老师，她仍然对她们的幸福抱有最温柔的关心。 她祝愿他婚姻生活幸福美满，并请求他允许向简女士（全世界都告诉她她的善良）表示哀悼，她希望有一天她可以被允许将她的小男孩介绍给他的叔叔和姨妈，并请求为他表达他们的善意和保护。

Pitt Crawley received this communication very graciously—more graciously than Miss Crawley had received some of Rebecca’s previous compositions in Rawdon’s handwriting; and as for Lady Jane, she was so charmed with the letter that she expected her husband would instantly divide his aunt’s legacy into two equal portions and send off one-half to his brother at Paris.
皮特·克劳利非常客气地收到了这份来信——比克劳利小姐收到丽贝卡之前罗登手写的一些作品还要客气。至于简夫人，她对这封信非常着迷，她希望她的丈夫会立即将他姨妈的遗产分成两等份，然后将一半寄给他在巴黎的兄弟。

To her Ladyship’s surprise, however, Pitt declined to accommodate his brother with a cheque for thirty thousand pounds. But he made Rawdon a handsome offer of his hand whenever the latter should come to England and choose to take it; and, thanking Mrs. Crawley for her good opinion of himself and Lady Jane, he graciously pronounced his willingness to take any opportunity to serve her little boy.
然而，令夫人惊讶的是，皮特拒绝为他的兄弟开出三万英镑的支票。但每当罗登来到英格兰并选择接受时，他都会向他提出一份丰厚的邀请。他感谢克劳利夫人对他和简夫人的良好评价，并慷慨地表示愿意利用任何机会为她的小男孩服务。

Thus an almost reconciliation was brought about between the brothers. When Rebecca came to town Pitt and his wife were not in London. Many a time she drove by the old door in Park Lane to see whether they had taken possession of Miss Crawley’s house there. But the new family did not make its appearance; it was only through Raggles that she heard of their movements—how Miss Crawley’s domestics had been dismissed with decent gratuities, and how Mr. Pitt had only once made his appearance in London, when he stopped for a few days at the house, did business with his lawyers there, and sold off all Miss Crawley’s French novels to a bookseller out of Bond Street. Becky had reasons of her own which caused her to long for the arrival of her new relation. ‘When Lady Jane comes,’ thought she, ‘she shall be my sponsor in London society; and as for the women! bah! the women will ask me when they find the men want to see me.’
就这样，兄弟之间几乎和解了。当丽贝卡来到镇上时，皮特和他的妻子并不在伦敦。很多次她开车经过公园巷的那扇旧门，看看他们是否占领了克劳利小姐那里的房子。但新的家庭并没有出现；只有通过拉格斯，她才听说他们的动向——克劳利小姐的仆人如何被打发去，并得到了可观的小费，皮特先生如何只在伦敦出现过一次，当时他在家里停留了几天，做生意。和他的律师在那里，并将克劳利小姐的所有法国小说卖给邦德街的一家书商。贝基有她自己的原因，让她渴望新恋人的到来。 “当简夫人到来时，”她想，“她将成为我在伦敦社交界的赞助人；”至于女人！呸！当女人们发现男人想见我时，她们就会问我。

An article as necessary to a lady in this position as her brougham or her bouquet is her companion. I have always admired the way in which the tender creatures, who cannot exist without sympathy, hire an exceedingly plain friend of their own sex from whom they are almost inseparable. The sight of that inevitable woman in her faded gown seated behind her dear friend in the opera-box, or occupying the back seat of the barouche, is always a wholesome and moral one to me, as jolly a reminder as that of the Death’s-head which figured in the repasts of Egyptian bon-vivants, a strange sardonic memorial of Vanity Fair. What? even battered, brazen, beautiful, conscienceless, heartless, Mrs. Firebrace, whose father died of her shame: even lovely, daring Mrs. Mantrap, who will ride at any fence which any man in England will take, and who drives her greys in the park, while her mother keeps a huckster’s stall in Bath still—even those who are so bold, one might fancy they could face anything dare not face the world without a female friend. They must have somebody to cling to, the affectionate creatures! And you will hardly see them in any public place without a shabby companion in a dyed silk, sitting somewhere in the shade close behind them.
对于处于这种地位的女士来说，这是一件必要的物品，就像她的马车或花束是她的伴侣一样。我一直很欣赏这些温柔的生物，如果没有同情心就无法生存，他们会雇佣一个极其朴素的同性朋友，与他们几乎形影不离。那个不可避免的女人穿着褪色的礼服坐在歌剧院里她亲爱的朋友后面，或者坐在四轮马车的后座上，对我来说总是一种健康和道德的感觉，就像死亡的快乐一样提醒我——埃及享乐主义者的餐桌上出现了这个头像，这是对《名利场》的一种奇怪的讽刺纪念。什么？甚至是被殴打、厚颜无耻、美丽、无良心、无情的火布雷斯夫人，她的父亲因她的耻辱而死；甚至可爱、勇敢的曼特拉普夫人，她会骑在英国任何男人会采取的任何栅栏上，她会驱赶她的灰色者公园里，而她的母亲在巴斯仍然保留着一个小贩的摊位——即使是那些如此大胆的人，人们可能会想象他们可以面对任何不敢面对没有女性朋友的世界的事情。他们一定有一个可以依附的人，这些充满感情的生物！如果没有穿着染色丝绸的破旧同伴坐在他们身后的阴凉处，你几乎不会在任何公共场所看到他们。

‘Rawdon,’ said Becky, very late one night, as a party of gentlemen were seated round her crackling drawing-room fire (for the men came to her house to finish the night; and she had ice and coffee for them, the best in London): ‘I must have a sheep-dog.’
“罗登，”一天深夜，贝基说道，当时一群绅士围坐在她噼啪作响的客厅火旁（因为男人们来到她家结束了夜晚；她为他们准备了冰块和咖啡，最好的）在伦敦）：“我必须养一只牧羊犬。”

‘A what?’ said Rawdon, looking up from an ecarte table.
“什么？”罗登从电子菜单上抬起头问道。

‘A sheep-dog!’ said young Lord Southdown. ‘My dear Mrs. Crawley, what a fancy! Why not have a Danish dog? I know of one as big as a camel-leopard, by Jove. It would almost pull your brougham. Or a Persian greyhound, eh? (I propose, if you please); or a little pug that would go into one of Lord Steyne’s snuff-boxes? There’s a man at Bayswater got one with such a nose that you might—I mark the king and play—that you might hang your hat on it.’
“一只牧羊犬！”年轻的绍斯唐勋爵说道。 “我亲爱的克劳利夫人，真是太棒了！为什么不养一只丹麦狗呢？我知道有一只像骆驼豹那么大，是朱庇特的。它几乎会拉动你的马车。或者波斯灵缇犬，是吗？ （如果你愿意的话，我建议）；或者一只会放进斯泰因勋爵鼻烟盒的小哈巴狗？贝斯沃特有一个人有一个这样的鼻子，你可以——我标记国王并玩耍——你可以把你的帽子挂在它上面。

‘I mark the trick,’ Rawdon gravely said. He attended to his game commonly and didn’t much meddle with the conversation, except when it was about horses and betting.
“我记下了这一招，”罗登严肃地说。他一般都专注于比赛，很少插手谈话，除非是关于赛马和赌博的时候。

‘What CAN you want with a shepherd’s dog?’ the lively little Southdown continued.
“你想要一只牧羊犬做什么？”活泼的小绍斯当继续说道。

‘I mean a MORAL shepherd’s dog,’ said Becky, laughing and looking up at Lord Steyne.
“我指的是道德牧羊犬，”贝基笑着说，抬头看着斯泰因勋爵。

‘What the devil’s that?’ said his Lordship.
“那是什么鬼东西？”勋爵大人问道。

‘A dog to keep the wolves off me,’ Rebecca continued. ‘A companion.’
“一只狗可以让狼远离我，”丽贝卡继续说道。 “一个同伴。”

‘Dear little innocent lamb, you want one,’ said the marquis; and his jaw thrust out, and he began to grin hideously, his little eyes leering towards Rebecca.
“亲爱的无辜小羊羔，你想要一只，”侯爵说道。他的下巴伸出来，开始露出可怕的笑容，他的小眼睛斜视着丽贝卡。

The great Lord of Steyne was standing by the fire sipping coffee. The fire crackled and blazed pleasantly There was a score of candles sparkling round the mantel piece, in all sorts of quaint sconces, of gilt and bronze and porcelain. They lighted up Rebecca’s figure to admiration, as she sat on a sofa covered with a pattern of gaudy flowers. She was in a pink dress that looked as fresh as a rose; her dazzling white arms and shoulders were half-covered with a thin hazy scarf through which they sparkled; her hair hung in curls round her neck; one of her little feet peeped out from the fresh crisp folds of the silk: the prettiest little foot in the prettiest little sandal in the finest silk stocking in the world.
伟大的斯泰因领主正站在火边喝着咖啡。炉火噼啪作响，令人愉快地燃烧着。壁炉架周围有二十支蜡烛在闪闪发光，烛台上有各种古色古香的烛台，有镀金的、青铜的和瓷器的。当丽贝卡坐在铺满艳丽花朵图案的沙发上时，它们照亮了丽贝卡的身材，令人赞叹不已。她穿着一袭粉红色的连衣裙，看起来像玫瑰一样清新；她白皙的手臂和肩膀半遮着一条薄薄的围巾，围巾透过围巾闪闪发光。她的头发卷曲地挂在脖子上。她的一只小脚从新鲜的丝绸褶皱中露出来：最漂亮的小脚，穿着世界上最好的丝袜，穿着最漂亮的小凉鞋。

The candles lighted up Lord Steyne’s shining bald head, which was fringed with red hair. He had thick bushy eyebrows, with little twinkling bloodshot eyes, surrounded by a thousand wrinkles. His jaw was underhung, and when he laughed, two white buck-teeth protruded themselves and glistened savagely in the midst of the grin. He had been dining with royal personages, and wore his garter and ribbon. A short man was his Lordship, broad-chested and bowlegged, but proud of the fineness of his foot and ankle, and always caressing his garter-knee.
蜡烛照亮了斯泰因勋爵闪亮的光头，他的头发流着红色的流苏。他有浓密的眉毛，一双小眼睛闪烁着血丝，周围有一千条皱纹。他的下巴下垂着，笑起来的时候，两颗白色的龅牙就露出来，在笑容中闪闪发亮。他曾与皇室人物共进晚餐，并戴着吊袜带和丝带。勋爵大人身材矮小，胸膛宽阔，罗圈腿，但对自己的脚和脚踝的纤细感到自豪，总是爱抚着他的吊袜带膝盖。

‘And so the shepherd is not enough,’ said he, ‘to defend his lambkin?’
“那么，牧羊人还不足以保护他的小羊羔吗？”他说道。

‘The shepherd is too fond of playing at cards and going to his clubs,’ answered Becky, laughing.
“牧羊人太喜欢打牌和去他的俱乐部了，”贝基笑着回答。

‘‘Gad, what a debauched Corydon!’ said my lord—‘what a mouth for a pipe!’
“哎呀，多么放荡的科里登啊！”我的主人说——“真是一张嘴当烟斗啊！”

‘I take your three to two,’ here said Rawdon, at the card-table.
“我以三比二，”罗登在牌桌上说道。

‘Hark at Meliboeus,’ snarled the noble marquis; ‘he’s pastorally occupied too: he’s shearing a Southdown. What an innocent mutton, hey? Damme, what a snowy fleece!’
“听听梅里博厄斯，”高贵的侯爵咆哮道。 “他也忙于田园生活：他正在剪羊毛。”多么无辜的羊肉，嘿？达姆，多雪白的羊毛呀！

Rebecca’s eyes shot out gleams of scornful humour. ‘My lord,’ she said, ‘you are a knight of the Order.’ He had the collar round his neck, indeed—a gift of the restored princes of Spain.
丽贝卡的眼中射出轻蔑的幽默光芒。 “大人，”她说，“您是骑士团的骑士。”确实，他脖子上戴着项圈——这是复辟的西班牙王子的礼物。

Lord Steyne in early life had been notorious for his daring and his success at play. He had sat up two days and two nights with Mr. Fox at hazard. He had won money of the most august personages of the realm: he had won his marquisate, it was said, at the gaming-table; but he did not like an allusion to those bygone fredaines. Rebecca saw the scowl gathering over his heavy brow.
斯泰因勋爵早年因其大胆和成功的玩耍而臭名昭著。他已经两天两夜没睡，狐狸先生处于危险之中。他赢得了王国中最尊贵人物的金钱：据说，他在赌桌上赢得了侯爵夫人的头衔；但他不喜欢提及那些过去的弗雷丹人。丽贝卡看到他浓重的眉毛上皱起了眉头。

She rose up from her sofa and went and took his coffee cup out of his hand with a little curtsey. ‘Yes,’ she said, ‘I must get a watchdog. But he won’t bark at YOU.’ And, going into the other drawing-room, she sat down to the piano and began to sing little French songs in such a charming, thrilling voice that the mollified nobleman speedily followed her into that chamber, and might be seen nodding his head and bowing time over her.
她从沙发上站起来，行了一个屈膝礼，从他手里接走了他的咖啡杯。 “是的，”她说，“我必须养一只看门狗。”但他不会对你吠叫。”然后，她走进另一间客厅，坐在钢琴前，开始用迷人而激动人心的声音唱起法国小歌，那位安抚下来的贵族很快就跟着她走进了那个房间。 ，并且可能会被看到对她点头并向时间鞠躬。

Rawdon and his friend meanwhile played ecarte until they had enough. The Colonel won; but, say that he won ever so much and often, nights like these, which occurred many times in the week—his wife having all the talk and all the admiration, and he sitting silent without the circle, not comprehending a word of the jokes, the allusions, the mystical language within—must have been rather wearisome to the ex-dragoon.
与此同时，罗登和他的朋友玩电子游戏，直到玩够为止。上校赢了；但是，说他赢了很多次，而且经常赢，像这样的夜晚，一周发生很多次——他的妻子一直在谈论和所有的钦佩，而他静静地坐在圆圈之外，听不懂笑话中的一个字那些典故，其中的神秘语言——对于这位前龙骑兵来说肯定相当令人厌烦。

‘How is Mrs. Crawley’s husband?’ Lord Steyne used to say to him by way of a good day when they met; and indeed that was now his avocation in life. He was Colonel Crawley no more. He was Mrs. Crawley’s husband.
“克劳利夫人的丈夫怎么样？”斯泰恩勋爵常常在他们见面时对他说，以祝他度过愉快的一天。事实上，这现在已经成为他生活中的爱好。他不再是克劳利上校了。他是克劳利夫人的丈夫。

About the little Rawdon, if nothing has been said all this while, it is because he is hidden upstairs in a garret somewhere, or has crawled below into the kitchen for companionship. His mother scarcely ever took notice of him. He passed the days with his French bonne as long as that domestic remained in Mr. Crawley’s family, and when the Frenchwoman went away, the little fellow, howling in the loneliness of the night, had compassion taken on him by a housemaid, who took him out of his solitary nursery into her bed in the garret hard by and comforted him.
关于小罗登，如果一直以来没有被提及，那是因为他藏在楼上某个阁楼里，或者爬到下面的厨房里陪伴。他的母亲几乎没有注意到他。只要克劳利先生的家中还留着那个佣人，他就过着法国人的好日子，当法国女人离开时，这个小家伙在夜晚的孤独中嚎叫，一位女佣对他产生了同情心，女佣同情了他。他从他孤独的婴儿室里出来，来到了旁边阁楼上她的床上，安慰着他。

Rebecca, my Lord Steyne, and one or two more were in the drawingroom taking tea after the opera, when this shouting was heard overhead. ‘It’s my cherub crying for his nurse,’ she said. She did not offer to move to go and see the child. ‘Don’t agitate your feelings by going to look for him,’ said Lord Steyne sardonically. ‘Bah!’ replied the other, with a sort of blush, ‘he’ll cry himself to sleep”; and they fell to talking about the opera.
丽贝卡、斯泰因勋爵和另外一两个人看完歌剧后正在客厅里喝茶，这时头顶上传来了喊叫声。 “这是我的小天使在为他的护士哭泣，”她说。她没有主动提出去看孩子。 “别因为去找他而激怒你，”斯泰因勋爵讽刺地说。 “呸！”另一个脸红了，回答道，“他会哭着睡着的。”他们开始谈论歌剧。

Rawdon had stolen off though, to look after his son and heir; and came back to the company when he found that honest Dolly was consoling the child. The Colonel’s dressing-room was in those upper regions. He used to see the boy there in private. They had interviews together every morning when he shaved; Rawdon minor sitting on a box by his father’s side and watching the operation with never-ceasing pleasure. He and the sire were great friends. The father would bring him sweetmeats from the dessert and hide them in a certain old epaulet box, where the child went to seek them, and laughed with joy on discovering the treasure; laughed, but not too loud: for mamma was below asleep and must not be disturbed. She did not go to rest till very late and seldom rose till after noon.
但罗登却偷偷溜走了，去照顾他的儿子和继承人。回到公司后，他发现诚实的多莉正在安慰孩子。上校的更衣室就在上面的区域。他曾经私下里见过那个男孩。每天早上他刮胡子时，他们都会一起接受采访。罗登未成年人坐在父亲旁边的一个盒子上，以永不停息的快乐观看手术过程。他和陛下是好朋友。父亲会给他带来甜点中的甜食，并将它们藏在某个旧的肩章盒子里，孩子去那里寻找它们，并在发现宝藏时高兴地笑；笑了，但声音不大：因为妈妈正在睡觉，不能被打扰。她直到很晚才休息，中午以后才起床。

Rawdon bought the boy plenty of picture-books and crammed his nursery with toys. Its walls were covered with pictures pasted up by the father’s own hand and purchased by him for ready money. When he was off duty with Mrs. Rawdon in the park, he would sit up here, passing hours with the boy; who rode on his chest, who pulled his great mustachios as if they were driving-reins, and spent days with him in indefatigable gambols. The room was a low room, and once, when the child was not five years old, his father, who was tossing him wildly up in his arms, hit the poor little chap’s skull so violently against the ceiling that he almost dropped the child, so terrified was he at the disaster.
罗登给男孩买了很多图画书，并在他的托儿所里塞满了玩具。墙上挂满了父亲亲手贴上的图画，这些图画是他用现钱购买的。当他下班和罗登夫人在公园里时，他会坐在这里，和男孩一起度过几个小时。他们骑在他的胸前，像拉缰绳一样拉动他的大胡子，和他一起不知疲倦地嬉戏了好几天。房间很矮，有一次，孩子还不到五岁，他的父亲把他抱在怀里，用力把他的头骨撞在天花板上，差点把孩子摔下来，他对这场灾难感到非常害怕。

Rawdon minor had made up his face for a tremendous howl—the severity of the blow indeed authorized that indulgence; but just as he was going to begin, the father interposed.
罗顿·小罗已经做好了准备，准备发出一声巨大的嚎叫——这次打击的严重性确实允许他放纵自己。但正当他要开始时，父亲插嘴了。

‘For God’s sake, Rawdy, don’t wake Mamma,’ he cried. And the child, looking in a very hard and piteous way at his father, bit his lips, clenched his hands, and didn’t cry a bit. Rawdon told that story at the clubs, at the mess, to everybody in town. ‘By Gad, sir,’ he explained to the public in general, ‘what a good plucked one that boy of mine is—what a trump he is! I half-sent his head through the ceiling, by Gad, and he wouldn’t cry for fear of disturbing his mother.’
“看在上帝的份上，罗迪，别吵醒妈妈，”他喊道。而孩子，用一种非常严厉和可怜的眼神看着他的父亲，咬着嘴唇，握紧了双手，没有哭出一点声。罗登在俱乐部、食堂向镇上的每个人讲述了这个故事。 “天哪，先生，”他向公众解释道，“我的那个男孩是多么勇敢的一个——他是多么王牌啊！”我把他的头半伸进了天花板，是盖德的，他不会哭，因为害怕打扰他的母亲。

Sometimes—once or twice in a week—that lady visited the upper regions in which the child lived. She came like a vivified figure out of the Magasin des Modes—blandly smiling in the most beautiful new clothes and little gloves and boots. Wonderful scarfs, laces, and jewels glittered about her. She had always a new bonnet on, and flowers bloomed perpetually in it, or else magnificent curling ostrich feathers, soft and snowy as camellias. She nodded twice or thrice patronizingly to the little boy, who looked up from his dinner or from the pictures of soldiers he was painting. When she left the room, an odour of rose, or some other magical fragrance, lingered about the nursery. She was an unearthly being in his eyes, superior to his father—to all the world: to be worshipped and admired at a distance. To drive with that lady in the carriage was an awful rite: he sat up in the back seat and did not dare to speak: he gazed with all his eyes at the beautifully dressed Princess opposite to him. Gentlemen on splendid prancing horses came up and smiled and talked with her. How her eyes beamed upon all of them! Her hand used to quiver and wave gracefully as they passed. When he went out with her he had his new red dress on. His old brown holland was good enough when he stayed at home. Sometimes, when she was away, and Dolly his maid was making his bed, he came into his mother’s room. It was as the abode of a fairy to him—a mystic chamber of splendour and delights. There in the wardrobe hung those wonderful robes—pink and blue and many-tinted. There was the jewel-case, silver-clasped, and the wondrous bronze hand on the dressing-table, glistening all over with a hundred rings. There was the cheval-glass, that miracle of art, in which he could just see his own wondering head and the reflection of Dolly (queerly distorted, and as if up in the ceiling), plumping and patting the pillows of the bed. Oh, thou poor lonely little benighted boy! Mother is the name for God in the lips and hearts of little children; and here was one who was worshipping a stone!
有时，这位女士一周一两次会去孩子居住的上层地区。她就像是《时尚杂志》里的一个充满活力的人物——穿着最漂亮的新衣服，戴着小手套和靴子，温和地微笑着。精美的围巾、蕾丝和珠宝在她身上闪闪发光。她总是戴着一顶新帽子，里面永远盛开着花朵，或者华丽卷曲的鸵鸟羽毛，像山茶花一样柔软而雪白。她居高临下地向小男孩点了两三次头，小男孩从他的晚餐或他正在画的士兵照片中抬起头来。当她离开房间时，婴儿室里弥漫着玫瑰或其他神奇香气的气味。在他眼里，她是一个超凡脱俗的存在，高于他的父亲，高于整个世界：值得人们远远地崇拜和钦佩。和那位女士一起坐马车是一种可怕的仪式：他在后座上坐起来，不敢说话，他的所有眼睛都盯着对面穿着漂亮的公主。骑着华丽骏马的绅士们走过来，微笑着与她交谈。她的眼睛多么明亮地看着他们所有人！当他们经过时，她的手常常颤抖并优雅地挥舞。当他和她出去时，他穿上了新的红裙子。当他待在家里的时候，他的旧棕色荷兰就足够好了。有时，当她不在时，他的女仆多莉正在为他铺床，他就会走进母亲的房间。对他来说，这里就像仙女的居所——一个充满辉煌和欢乐的神秘房间。衣柜里挂着那些漂亮的长袍——粉色、蓝色、多种颜色。梳妆台上有一个镶着银扣的珠宝盒，还有那只奇妙的青铜手，上面挂着一百枚戒指，闪闪发光。 那是骑士镜，这是艺术的奇迹，在其中他只能看到自己好奇的头和多莉的倒影（奇怪地扭曲，好像在天花板上），拍打着床上的枕头。哦，你这个可怜的、孤独的、愚昧的小男孩！在小孩子的嘴里和心里，母亲是上帝的名字；这里有一个正在崇拜一块石头！

Now Rawdon Crawley, rascal as the Colonel was, had certain manly tendencies of affection in his heart and could love a child and a woman still. For Rawdon minor he had a great secret tenderness then, which did not escape Rebecca, though she did not talk about it to her husband. It did not annoy her: she was too good-natured. It only increased her scorn for him. He felt somehow ashamed of this paternal softness and hid it from his wife—only indulging in it when alone with the boy.
现在，罗登·克劳利虽然是个无赖上校，但内心深处却有一定的男子气概，仍然可以爱一个孩子和一个女人。对于小罗登来说，他当时有一种强烈的秘密温柔，丽贝卡没有逃过这一点，尽管她没有向她的丈夫谈论这一点。这并没有让她烦恼：她脾气太好了。这只会增加她对他的蔑视。他对这种父亲般的温柔感到羞愧，并向妻子隐瞒了这一点——只有在与男孩独处时才沉溺其中。

He used to take him out of mornings when they would go to the stables together and to the park. Little Lord Southdown, the bestnatured of men, who would make you a present of the hat from his head, and whose main occupation in life was to buy knick-knacks that he might give them away afterwards, bought the little chap a pony not much bigger than a large rat, the donor said, and on this little black Shetland pygmy young Rawdon’s great father was pleased to mount the boy, and to walk by his side in the park. It pleased him to see his old quarters, and his old fellow-guardsmen at Knightsbridge: he had begun to think of his bachelorhood with something like regret. The old troopers were glad to recognize their ancient officer and dandle the little colonel. Colonel Crawley found dining at mess and with his brother-officers very pleasant. ‘Hang it, I ain’t clever enough for her—I know it. She won’t miss me,’ he used to say: and he was right, his wife did not miss him.
早上他们一起去马厩和公园时，他常常带他出去。小绍斯唐勋爵是个脾气最好的人，他会把自己头上的帽子作为礼物送给你，他生活中的主要工作就是买小摆设，然后送人，他给这个小家伙买了一匹小马，价格并不多。捐赠者说，它比一只大老鼠还大，在这只黑色设得兰侏儒小罗登的伟大父亲身上，他很高兴骑上这个男孩，并在公园里与他并肩行走。他很高兴看到他以前的住处，还有他在骑士桥的老近卫军战友：他开始怀着某种遗憾的心情想起自己的单身生活。老士兵们很高兴认识了他们的老军官，并逗弄了小上校。克劳利上校发现在混乱的环境中与他的军官兄弟们一起用餐非常愉快。 “别这样，我对她来说还不够聪明——我知道。”她不会想念我的，”他常说，他是对的，他的妻子并没有想念他。

Rebecca was fond of her husband. She was always perfectly goodhumoured and kind to him. She did not even show her scorn much for him; perhaps she liked him the better for being a fool. He was her upper servant and maitre d’hotel. He went on her errands; obeyed her orders without question; drove in the carriage in the ring with her without repining; took her to the opera-box, solaced himself at his club during the performance, and came punctually back to fetch her when due. He would have liked her to be a little fonder of the boy, but even to that he reconciled himself. ‘Hang it, you know she’s so clever,’ he said, ‘and I’m not literary and that, you know.’ For, as we have said before, it requires no great wisdom to be able to win at cards and billiards, and Rawdon made no pretensions to any other sort of skill.
丽贝卡很喜欢她的丈夫。她总是非常幽默，对他也很友善。她甚至没有对他表现出太多的蔑视。也许她更喜欢他这个傻瓜。他是她的上级仆人和酒店领班。他去帮她办事。毫无疑问地服从她的命令；和她一起坐马车在环里，毫无怨言。带她去了歌剧院，演出期间在他的俱乐部里休息，然后准时回来接她。他希望她能更喜欢这个男孩一点，但即便如此，他也甘心接受。 “别管了，你知道她很聪明，”他说，“而且我不懂文学，这一点你也知道。”因为，正如我们之前说过的，在纸牌和台球比赛中获胜并不需要多大的智慧。 ，罗登没有自诩有任何其他技能。

When the companion came, his domestic duties became very light. His wife encouraged him to dine abroad: she would let him off duty at the opera. ‘Don’t stay and stupefy yourself at home to-night, my dear,’ she would say. ‘Some men are coming who will only bore you. I would not ask them, but you know it’s for your good, and now I have a sheep-dog, I need not be afraid to be alone.’
同伴来了，他的家务就变得很轻松了。他的妻子鼓励他去国外用餐：她会让他在歌剧院下班。 “亲爱的，今晚别呆在家里，”她会说。 ‘有些人来了，只会让你感到厌烦。我不会问他们，但你知道这是为了你好，现在我有一只牧羊犬，我不必害怕孤独。

‘A sheep-dog—a companion! Becky Sharp with a companion! Isn’t it good fun?’ thought Mrs. Crawley to herself. The notion tickled hugely her sense of humour.
“一只牧羊犬——一个伴侣！贝基·夏普和她的同伴！ “这不是很有趣吗？”克劳利夫人心里想。这个想法极大地激发了她的幽默感。

One Sunday morning, as Rawdon Crawley, his little son, and the pony were taking their accustomed walk in the park, they passed by an old acquaintance of the Colonel’s, Corporal Clink, of the regiment, who was in conversation with a friend, an old gentleman, who held a boy in his arms about the age of little Rawdon. This other youngster had seized hold of the Waterloo medal which the Corporal wore, and was examining it with delight.
一个周日的早晨，罗顿·克劳利、他的小儿子和小马正按照惯例在公园里散步时，他们经过了上校的一位老熟人、团里的克林克下士，当时他正在和一位朋友交谈。老先生怀里抱着一个和小罗登差不多大的男孩。另一个年轻人抓住了下士佩戴的滑铁卢奖章，高兴地审视着它。

‘Good morning, your Honour,’ said Clink, in reply to the ‘How do, Clink?’ of the Colonel. ‘This ere young gentleman is about the little Colonel’s age, sir,’ continued the corporal.
“早上好，法官大人，”克林克回答说，“怎么样，克林克？”上校问道。 “这位年轻的绅士和小上校的年龄差不多，长官，”下士继续说道。

‘His father was a Waterloo man, too,’ said the old gentleman, who carried the boy. ‘Wasn’t he, Georgy?’
“他的父亲也是滑铁卢人，”抱着男孩的老绅士说道。 “他不是吗，乔治？”

‘Yes,’ said Georgy. He and the little chap on the pony were looking at each other with all their might—solemnly scanning each other as children do.
“是的，”乔治说。他和小马上的小伙子竭尽全力地看着对方——像孩子一样严肃地扫视着对方。

‘In a line regiment,’ Clink said with a patronizing air.
“在一个战列团里，”克林克带着居高临下的神气说道。

‘He was a Captain in the —th regiment,’ said the old gentleman rather pompously. ‘Captain George Osborne, sir—perhaps you knew him. He died the death of a hero, sir, fighting against the Corsican tyrant.’ Colonel Crawley blushed quite red. ‘I knew him very well, sir,’ he said, ‘and his wife, his dear little wife, sir— how is she?’
“他是第……团的连长。”老先生颇为傲慢地说。 “乔治·奥斯本船长，先生——也许你认识他。先生，他是一位英雄，是在与科西嘉暴君的战斗中死去的。”克劳利上校的脸涨得通红。 “我很了解他，先生，”他说，“还有他的妻子，他亲爱的小妻子，先生——她怎么样？”

‘She is my daughter, sir,’ said the old gentleman, putting down the boy and taking out a card with great solemnity, which he handed to the Colonel. On it written—
“她是我的女儿，先生。”老先生放下男孩，郑重地拿出一张卡片，递给了上校。上面写着——

‘Mr. Sedley, Sole Agent for the Black Diamond and Anti-Cinder Coal Association, Bunker’s Wharf, Thames Street, and Anna-Maria Cottages, Fulham Road West.’
'先生。塞德利，黑钻石和反煤渣煤协会独家代理，位于泰晤士街邦克码头和富勒姆西路安娜玛丽亚小屋。

Little Georgy went up and looked at the Shetland pony.
小乔吉走上前，看着那匹设得兰小马。

‘Should you like to have a ride?’ said Rawdon minor from the saddle.
“你想搭便车吗？”坐在马鞍上的罗登·未成年人说道。

‘Yes,’ said Georgy. The Colonel, who had been looking at him with some interest, took up the child and put him on the pony behind Rawdon minor.
“是的，”乔治说。上校一直饶有兴趣地看着他，他抱起了孩子，把他放到了罗登·未成年人后面的小马上。

‘Take hold of him, Georgy,’ he said—‘take my little boy round the waist—his name is Rawdon.’ And both the children began to laugh.
“抱住他，乔吉，”他说，“抱住我小男孩的腰——他的名字叫罗登。”两个孩子都笑了起来。

‘You won’t see a prettier pair I think, THIS summer’s day, sir,’ said the good-natured Corporal; and the Colonel, the Corporal, and old Mr. Sedley with his umbrella, walked by the side of the children.
“我想，今年夏天你不会看到比这更漂亮的一对了，长官，”好脾气的下士说道。上校、下士和打着伞的老塞德利先生走在孩子们的身边。

Chapter XXXVIII
第三十八章


A Family in a Very Small Way
一个非常小的家庭

We must suppose little George Osborne has ridden from Knightsbridge towards Fulham, and will stop and make inquiries at that village regarding some friends whom we have left there. How is Mrs. Amelia after the storm of Waterloo? Is she living and thriving? What has come of Major Dobbin, whose cab was always hankering about her premises? And is there any news of the Collector of Boggley Wollah? The facts concerning the latter are briefly these:
我们必须假设小乔治·奥斯本已经从骑士桥骑马前往富勒姆，并将在那个村庄停下来询问我们留在那儿的一些朋友。滑铁卢风暴过后阿米莉亚夫人怎么样了？她还活着并且茁壮成长吗？多宾少校的出租车总是渴望她的住所，他现在怎么样了？博格利·沃拉收藏家有什么消息吗？关于后者的事实简要如下：

Our worthy fat friend Joseph Sedley returned to India not long after his escape from Brussels. Either his furlough was up, or he dreaded to meet any witnesses of his Waterloo flight. However it might be, he went back to his duties in Bengal very soon after Napoleon had taken up his residence at St. Helena, where Jos saw the ex-Emperor. To hear Mr. Sedley talk on board ship you would have supposed that it was not the first time he and the Corsican had met, and that the civilian had bearded the French General at Mount St. John. He had a thousand anecdotes about the famous battles; he knew the position of every regiment and the loss which each had incurred. He did not deny that he had been concerned in those victories—that he had been with the army and carried despatches for the Duke of Wellington. And he described what the Duke did and said on every conceivable moment of the day of Waterloo, with such an accurate knowledge of his Grace’s sentiments and proceedings that it was clear he must have been by the conqueror’s side throughout the day; though, as a noncombatant, his name was not mentioned in the public documents relative to the battle. Perhaps he actually worked himself up to believe that he had been engaged with the army; certain it is that he made a prodigious sensation for some time at Calcutta, and was called Waterloo Sedley during the whole of his subsequent stay in Bengal.
我们可敬的胖朋友约瑟夫·塞德利逃离布鲁塞尔后不久就回到了印度。要么是他的休假结束了，要么是他害怕见到滑铁卢航班的任何目击者。不管怎样，拿破仑在圣赫勒拿岛定居后不久，他就回到了孟加拉履行职责，乔斯在那里见到了这位前皇帝。听到塞德利先生在船上讲话，你可能会认为这不是他和科西嘉人第一次见面，而且这位平民与圣约翰山的法国将军留着胡子。他有一千个关于著名战役的轶事；他知道每个团的位置以及每个团所遭受的损失。他并不否认他对这些胜利很关心——他曾在军队中为威灵顿公爵运送信件。他描述了公爵在滑铁卢之战中每一个可以想象的时刻所做的事情和所说的话，对公爵陛下的情绪和行为有着如此准确的了解，很明显他一整天都站在征服者的一边；不过，作为一名非战斗人员，与这场战斗有关的公开文件中并未提及他的名字。也许他真的让自己相信自己曾与军队有过接触；也许他真的很自信。可以肯定的是，他在加尔各答的一段时间里引起了巨大的轰动，并且在他随后在孟加拉的整个逗留期间被称为滑铁卢塞德利。

The bills which Jos had given for the purchase of those unlucky horses were paid without question by him and his agents. He never was heard to allude to the bargain, and nobody knows for a certainty what became of the horses, or how he got rid of them, or of Isidor, his Belgian servant, who sold a grey horse, very like the one which Jos rode, at Valenciennes sometime during the autumn of 1815.
乔斯为购买那些不幸的马而开出的账单，毫无疑问地由他和他的代理人支付了。从来没有人听他提到过这笔交易，也没有人确切知道这些马后来怎么样了，或者他是如何摆脱它们的，或者他的比利时仆人伊西多尔，他卖掉了一匹灰马，很像乔斯的那匹马。 1815 年秋天的某个时候，他在瓦朗谢讷骑马。

Jos’s London agents had orders to pay one hundred and twenty pounds yearly to his parents at Fulham. It was the chief support of the old couple; for Mr. Sedley’s speculations in life subsequent to his bankruptcy did not by any means retrieve the broken old gentleman’s fortune. He tried to be a wine-merchant, a coal-merchant, a commission lottery agent, &c., &c. He sent round prospectuses to his friends whenever he took a new trade, and ordered a new brass plate for the door, and talked pompously about making his fortune still. But Fortune never came back to the feeble and stricken old man. One by one his friends dropped off, and were weary of buying dear coals and bad wine from him; and there was only his wife in all the world who fancied, when he tottered off to the City of a morning, that he was still doing any business there. At evening he crawled slowly back; and he used to go of nights to a little club at a tavern, where he disposed of the finances of the nation. It was wonderful to hear him talk about millions, and agios, and discounts, and what Rothschild was doing, and Baring Brothers. He talked of such vast sums that the gentlemen of the club (the apothecary, the undertaker, the great carpenter and builder, the parish clerk, who was allowed to come stealthily, and Mr. Clapp, our old acquaintance,) respected the old gentleman. ‘I was better off once, sir,’ he did not fail to tell everybody who ‘used the room.’ ‘My son, sir, is at this minute chief magistrate of Ramgunge in the Presidency of Bengal, and touching his four thousand rupees per mensem. My daughter might be a Colonel’s lady if she liked. I might draw upon my son, the first magistrate, sir, for two thousand pounds to-morrow, and Alexander would cash my bill, down sir, down on the counter, sir. But the Sedleys were always a proud family.’ You and I, my dear reader, may drop into this condition one day: for have not many of our friends attained it? Our luck may fail: our powers forsake us: our place on the boards be taken by better and younger mimes—the chance of life roll away and leave us shattered and stranded. Then men will walk across the road when they meet you—or, worse still, hold you out a couple of fingers and patronize you in a pitying way—then you will know, as soon as your back is turned, that your friend begins with a ‘Poor devil, what imprudences he has committed, what chances that chap has thrown away!’ Well, well—a carriage and three thousand a year is not the summit of the reward nor the end of God’s judgment of men. If quacks prosper as often as they go to the wall—if zanies succeed and knaves arrive at fortune, and, vice versa, sharing ill luck and prosperity for all the world like the ablest and most honest amongst us—I say, brother, the gifts and pleasures of Vanity Fair cannot be held of any great account, and that it is probable … but we are wandering out of the domain of the story.
乔斯的伦敦经纪人接到命令，每年向他在富勒姆的父母支付一百二十英镑。这是老两口的主要依靠。因为塞德利先生破产后对生活的投机无论如何也没有挽回这位破碎的老绅士的财产。他尝试过当酒商、煤商、彩票经纪人等等。每当他进行一项新交易时，他都会向朋友们发送招股说明书，并为门订购一个新的黄铜板，并趾高气扬地谈论如何继续发财。但命运再也没有回到这位虚弱而饱受打击的老人身上。他的朋友们一一离开，厌倦了从他那里购买昂贵的煤炭和劣质酒。一天早上，当他摇摇晃晃地前往城里时，全世界只有他的妻子认为他仍然在那里做生意。晚上，他慢慢地爬回来。他常常晚上去小酒馆的一个小俱乐部，在那里处理国家的财政。很高兴听到他谈论百万、贴水、折扣、罗斯柴尔德正在做的事情以及巴林兄弟。他谈到的金额如此之大，以至于俱乐部的先生们（药剂师、殡仪馆老板、伟大的木匠和建筑商、被允许偷偷进来的教区职员，以及我们的老熟人克拉普先生）都尊敬这位老先生。 。 “我曾经过得更好，先生，”他没有忘记告诉每个“使用过这个房间”的人。“我的儿子，先生，此刻是孟加拉总统府拉姆贡格的首席法官，正在动用他的四千卢比每门。如果我女儿愿意的话，她可能会成为一名上校的夫人。明天我可能会向我的儿子，第一任地方法官，提取两千英镑，亚历山大会兑现我的账单，先生，在柜台上，先生。 但塞德利一家始终是一个值得骄傲的家庭。”亲爱的读者，你和我有一天可能会陷入这种境地：因为我们的许多朋友不是都达到了这一点吗？我们的运气可能会失败：我们的力量抛弃了我们：我们在棋盘上的位置被更优秀、更年轻的哑剧演员取代——生命的机会消失了，让我们支离破碎、陷入困境。然后，人们遇到你时就会走过马路——或者更糟糕的是，伸出几根手指，以一种怜悯的方式光顾你——然后你一转身，你就会知道，你的朋友开始了“可怜的魔鬼，他犯下了多么轻率的罪行，这家伙浪费了多么大的机会啊！”好吧，好吧——一年一辆马车和三千块钱并不是奖赏的顶峰，也不是上帝对人类审判的终点。如果江湖庸医经常成功，如果滑稽的人成功，无赖获得财富，反之亦然，像我们当中最有能力和最诚实的人一样为全世界分享厄运和繁荣——我说，兄弟， 《名利场》中的礼物和快乐并不能起到任何重要作用，而且这是可能的……但我们正在游离于故事的范围之外。

Had Mrs. Sedley been a woman of energy, she would have exerted it after her husband’s ruin and, occupying a large house, would have taken in boarders. The broken Sedley would have acted well as the boarding-house landlady’s husband; the Munoz of private life; the titular lord and master: the carver, house-steward, and humble husband of the occupier of the dingy throne. I have seen men of good brains and breeding, and of good hopes and vigour once, who feasted squires and kept hunters in their youth, meekly cutting up legs of mutton for rancorous old harridans and pretending to preside over their dreary tables—but Mrs. Sedley, we say, had not spirit enough to bustle about for ‘a few select inmates to join a cheerful musical family,’ such as one reads of in the Times. She was content to lie on the shore where fortune had stranded her—and you could see that the career of this old couple was over.
如果塞德利夫人是一个精力充沛的女人，她就会在丈夫破产后发挥它的力量，占据一栋大房子，并收留寄宿生。精神崩溃的塞德利很适合扮演寄宿家庭女房东的丈夫。私人生活中的穆诺兹；名义上的领主和主人：雕刻师、管家和肮脏王位占领者的卑微丈夫。我曾经见过一些头脑聪明、有教养、充满希望和活力的人，他们宴请乡绅，让猎人在年轻时保持活力，温顺地为怨恨的老哈里达斯切羊腿，假装主持他们沉闷的餐桌——但夫人。我们说，塞德利没有足够的精神去忙于“让一些经过挑选的囚犯加入一个快乐的音乐家庭”，就像《泰晤士报》上的一篇文章所描述的那样。她很满足地躺在命运搁浅她的海岸上——你可以看到这对老夫妇的事业已经结束了。

I don’t think they were unhappy. Perhaps they were a little prouder in their downfall than in their prosperity. Mrs. Sedley was always a great person for her landlady, Mrs. Clapp, when she descended and passed many hours with her in the basement or ornamented kitchen. The Irish maid Betty Flanagan’s bonnets and ribbons, her sauciness, her idleness, her reckless prodigality of kitchen candles, her consumption of tea and sugar, and so forth occupied and amused the old lady almost as much as the doings of her former household, when she had Sambo and the coachman, and a groom, and a footboy, and a housekeeper with a regiment of female domestics—her former household, about which the good lady talked a hundred times a day. And besides Betty Flanagan, Mrs. Sedley had all the maids-of-allwork in the street to superintend. She knew how each tenant of the cottages paid or owed his little rent. She stepped aside when Mrs. Rougemont the actress passed with her dubious family. She flung up her head when Mrs. Pestler, the apothecary’s lady, drove by in her husband’s professional one-horse chaise. She had colloquies with the greengrocer about the pennorth of turnips which Mr. Sedley loved; she kept an eye upon the milkman and the baker’s boy; and made visitations to the butcher, who sold hundreds of oxen very likely with less ado than was made about Mrs. Sedley’s loin of mutton: and she counted the potatoes under the joint on Sundays, on which days, dressed in her best, she went to church twice and read Blair’s Sermons in the evening.
我不认为他们不高兴。也许他们对自己的没落比对自己的繁荣更感到自豪。对于她的女房东克拉普夫人来说，塞德利夫人一直是一个很好的人，当她下楼并与她一起在地下室或装饰精美的厨房里度过很多个小时时。爱尔兰女仆贝蒂·弗拉纳根的帽子和丝带、她的俏皮、她的闲散、她对厨房蜡烛的不计后果的挥霍、她对茶和糖的消费等等，几乎和她以前的家庭的所作所为一样，让这位老太太感到高兴和高兴。她有桑博、车夫、马夫、男仆、管家和一队女佣人——她以前的家庭，这位善良的女士每天谈论上百次。除了贝蒂·弗拉纳根之外，塞德利夫人还负责管理街上所有的女仆。她知道小屋的每个房客如何支付或欠下他的微薄租金。当女演员鲁日蒙夫人和可疑的家人过世时，她退到了一边。当药剂师的女主人佩斯特勒夫人开着她丈夫的专业单马马车经过时，她猛地抬起头。她与蔬菜水果商谈论了塞德利先生喜爱的北彭诺斯萝卜。她留意着送牛奶的人和面包师的儿子。她拜访了屠夫，屠夫卖掉了数百头牛，很可能比塞德利夫人的羊腰肉更省事：她在周日数着土豆，在那些日子里，她穿着最好的衣服去两次去教堂，晚上读布莱尔的布道文。

On that day, for ‘business’ prevented him on weekdays from taking such a pleasure, it was old Sedley’s delight to take out his little grandson Georgy to the neighbouring parks or Kensington Gardens, to see the soldiers or to feed the ducks. Georgy loved the redcoats, and his grandpapa told him how his father had been a famous soldier, and introduced him to many sergeants and others with Waterloo medals on their breasts, to whom the old grandfather pompously presented the child as the son of Captain Osborne of the —th, who died gloriously on the glorious eighteenth. He has been known to treat some of these non-commissioned gentlemen to a glass of porter, and, indeed, in their first Sunday walks was disposed to spoil little Georgy, sadly gorging the boy with apples and parliament, to the detriment of his health—until Amelia declared that George should never go out with his grandpapa unless the latter promised solemnly, and on his honour, not to give the child any cakes, lollipops, or stall produce whatever.
那天，由于平日的“公务”使他无法享受这样的乐趣，老塞德利很乐意带他的小孙子乔治去附近的公园或肯辛顿花园，看看士兵或喂鸭子。乔治喜欢红衣，他的爷爷告诉他他的父亲是一位著名的士兵，并把他介绍给许多中士和其他胸前佩戴着滑铁卢勋章的人，老祖父自豪地向他们介绍这个孩子是奥斯本上尉的儿子。第一个，在光荣的十八号光荣地死去。众所周知，他会请一些士官绅士喝一杯黑啤酒，事实上，在他们的第一个周日散步中，他倾向于宠坏小乔治，可悲的是，他用苹果和议会让这个男孩狼吞虎咽，损害了他的健康——直到阿米莉亚宣布乔治永远不应该和他的爷爷出去，除非后者郑重承诺，并以他的名誉，不给孩子任何蛋糕、棒棒糖或摊位农产品。

Between Mrs. Sedley and her daughter there was a sort of coolness about this boy, and a secret jealousy—for one evening in George’s very early days, Amelia, who had been seated at work in their little parlour scarcely remarking that the old lady had quitted the room, ran upstairs instinctively to the nursery at the cries of the child, who had been asleep until that moment—and there found Mrs. Sedley in the act of surreptitiously administering Daffy’s Elixir to the infant. Amelia, the gentlest and sweetest of everyday mortals, when she found this meddling with her maternal authority, thrilled and trembled all over with anger. Her cheeks, ordinarily pale, now flushed up, until they were as red as they used to be when she was a child of twelve years old. She seized the baby out of her mother’s arms and then grasped at the bottle, leaving the old lady gaping at her, furious, and holding the guilty tea-spoon.
塞德利夫人和她的女儿之间对这个男孩有一种冷静，还有一种秘密的嫉妒——在乔治早年的一个晚上，阿米莉亚坐在他们的小客厅里工作，几乎没有注意到老太太已经离开房间，听到孩子的哭声，本能地跑到楼上的婴儿室，直到那一刻孩子才睡着——在那里发现塞德利夫人正在偷偷地给婴儿服用达菲的万能药。阿米莉亚，这个平凡凡人中最温柔、最可爱的人，当她发现这种对她母性权威的干涉时，她激动不已，气得浑身发抖。她原本苍白的脸颊，此时却泛起红晕，直到像十二岁的时候一样通红。她从母亲怀里夺走了婴儿，然后抓住了瓶子，留下老太太目瞪口呆地看着她，愤怒地拿着那只愧疚的茶匙。

Amelia flung the bottle crashing into the fire-place. ‘I will NOT have baby poisoned, Mamma,’ cried Emmy, rocking the infant about violently with both her arms round him and turning with flashing eyes at her mother.
阿米莉亚把瓶子扔进壁炉里。 “我不会让孩子中毒的，妈妈，”艾米大声喊道，用双臂抱住婴儿，猛烈地摇晃婴儿，然后转过身来，眼睛闪闪发亮地看着她的母亲。

‘Poisoned, Amelia!’ said the old lady; ‘this language to me?’
“中毒了，阿米莉亚！”老太太说道。 “对我来说这种语言？”

‘He shall not have any medicine but that which Mr. Pestler sends for hi n. He told me that Daffy’s Elixir was poison.’
“除了佩斯勒先生给他送来的药之外，他不能得到任何药物。”他告诉我达菲的长生不老药是毒药。

‘Very good: you think I’m a murderess then,’ replied Mrs. Sedley. ‘This is the language you use to your mother. I have met with misfortunes: I have sunk low in life: I have kept my carriage, and now walk on foot: but I did not know I was a murderess before, and thank you for the NEWS.’
“很好：那么你认为我是个女凶手，”塞德利夫人回答道。 “这是你对你母亲使用的语言。我遇到了不幸：我的生活陷入了低谷：我保留了马车，现在步行：但我不知道我以前是一个女凶手，谢谢你的消息。

‘Mamma,’ said the poor girl, who was always ready for tears—‘you shouldn’t be hard upon me. I—I didn’t mean—I mean, I did not wish to say you would to any wrong to this dear child, only—‘
“妈妈，”那个可怜的女孩总是泪流满面，说道，“你不应该对我太严厉。我——我不是说——我是说，我不想说你会伤害这个亲爱的孩子，只是——”

‘Oh, no, my love,—only that I was a murderess; in which case I had better go to the Old Bailey. Though I didn’t poison YOU, when you were a child, but gave you the best of education and the most expensive masters money could procure. Yes; I’ve nursed five children and buried three; and the one I loved the best of all, and tended through croup, and teething, and measles, and hooping-cough, and brought up with foreign masters, regardless of expense, and with accomplishments at Minerva House—which I never had when I was a girl—when I was too glad to honour my father and mother, that I might live long in the land, and to be useful, and not to mope all day in my room and act the fine lady—says I’m a murderess. Ah, Mrs. Osborne! may YOU never nourish a viper in your bosom, that’s MY prayer.’
“哦，不，我的爱人——只是我是个女凶手；在这种情况下我最好去老贝利。虽然我没有在你还是个孩子的时候毒害你，但给了你最好的教育和最昂贵的大师金钱。是的;我养育过五个孩子，埋葬了三个；我最喜欢的那个人，他照顾我度过了哮吼、出牙、麻疹和咳嗽，并在外国大师的陪伴下长大，不计花费，并在密涅瓦之家取得了成就——这是我小时候从未有过的成就。当我还是个女孩的时候——当我很高兴能够孝敬我的父母，这样我就可以在这片土地上活得长久，成为一个有用的人，而不是整天闷闷不乐地在我的房间里装出一副好淑女的样子——说我是一个女凶手。啊，奥斯本夫人！愿你永远不会在你的怀里养出一条毒蛇，这是我的祈祷。

‘Mamma, Mamma!’ cried the bewildered girl; and the child in her arms set up a frantic chorus of shouts. ‘A murderess, indeed! Go down on your knees and pray to God to cleanse your wicked ungrateful heart, Amelia, and may He forgive you as I do.’ And Mrs. Sedley tossed out of the room, hissing out the word poison once more, and so ending her charitable benediction.
“妈妈，妈妈！”困惑的女孩喊道。她怀里的孩子发出一阵疯狂的叫喊声。 “确实是个女凶手！跪下，祈求上帝净化你邪恶忘恩负义的心，阿米莉亚，愿他像我一样原谅你。”塞德利夫人冲出房间，再次嘶嘶地说出“毒药”这个词，结束了她的生命。慈善祝福。

Till the termination of her natural life, this breach between Mrs. Sedley and her daughter was never thoroughly mended. The quarrel gave the elder lady numberless advantages which she did not fail to turn to account with female ingenuity and perseverance. For instance, she scarcely spoke to Amelia for many weeks afterwards. She warned the domestics not to touch the child, as Mrs. Osborne might be offended. She asked her daughter to see and satisfy herself that there was no poison prepared in the little daily messes that were concocted for Georgy. When neighbours asked after the boy’s health, she referred them pointedly to Mrs. Osborne. SHE never ventured to ask whether the baby was well or not. SHE would not touch the child although he was her grandson, and own precious darling, for she was not USED to children, and might kill it. And whenever Mr. Pestler came upon his healing inquisition, she received the doctor with such a sarcastic and scornful demeanour, as made the surgeon declare that not Lady Thistlewood herself, whom he had the honour of attending professionally, could give herself greater airs than old Mrs. Sedley, from whom he never took a fee. And very likely Emmy was jealous too, upon her own part, as what mother is not, of those who would manage her children for her, or become candidates for the first place in their affections. It is certain that when anybody nursed the child, she was uneasy, and that she would no more allow Mrs. Clapp or the domestic to dress or tend him than she would have let them wash her husband’s miniature which hung up over her little bed—the same little bed from which the poor girl had gone to his; and to which she retired now for many long, silent, tearful, but happy years.
直到她的自然生命结束，塞德利夫人和女儿之间的裂痕从未彻底弥合。这场争吵给这位老太太带来了无数的好处，她并没有忘记用女性的聪明才智和毅力来利用这些好处。例如，此后的好几个星期她几乎没有和阿米莉亚说过话。她警告仆人不要碰这个孩子，因为奥斯本夫人可能会生气。她让女儿看看并确认为乔吉调制的日常小菜中没有毒药。当邻居询问男孩的健康状况时，她尖锐地将他们转介给奥斯本夫人。她从未冒险询问孩子是否安好。她不会碰这个孩子，尽管他是她的孙子，也是她自己的宝贝，因为她不习惯孩子，可能会杀掉孩子。每当佩斯特勒先生来接受他的治疗询问时，她都会以一种讽刺和轻蔑的态度来接待医生，这使得外科医生宣称，他有幸接受专业治疗的西斯尔伍德女士本人，不能给自己比老人们更大的架子。塞德利夫人，他从未向她收取任何费用。就她自己而言，艾美很可能也嫉妒那些愿意为她管理孩子的人，或者成为他们感情中第一名的候选人，而母亲则不然。可以肯定的是，当有人给孩子喂奶时，她会感到不安，她不会允许克拉普太太或仆人给他穿衣服或照顾他，就像她不会让他们清洗挂在她小床上的她丈夫的微型模型一样——可怜的女孩就是从那张小床上走向他的。她现在已经退休了，度过了许多漫长、沉默、含泪但幸福的岁月。

In this room was all Amelia’s heart and treasure. Here it was that she tended her boy and watched him through the many ills of childhood, with a constant passion of love. The elder George returned in him somehow, only improved, and as if come back from heaven. In a hundred little tones, looks, and movements, the child was so like his father that the widow’s heart thrilled as she held him to it; and he would often ask the cause of her tears. It was because of his likeness to his father, she did not scruple to tell him. She talked constantly to him about this dead father, and spoke of her love for George to the innocent and wondering child; much more than she ever had done to George himself, or to any confidante of her youth. To her parents she never talked about this matter, shrinking from baring her heart to them. Little George very likely could understand no better than they, but into his ears she poured her sentimental secrets unreservedly, and into his only. The very joy of this woman was a sort of grief, or so tender, at least, that its expression was tears. Her sensibilities were so weak and tremulous that perhaps they ought not to be talked about in a book. I was told by Dr. Pestler (now a most flourishing lady’s physician, with a sumptuous dark green carriage, a prospect of speedy knighthood, and a house in Manchester Square) that her grief at weaning the child was a sight that would have unmanned a Herod. He was very soft-hearted many years ago, and his wife was mortally jealous of Mrs. Amelia, then and long afterwards.
这个房间里装满了阿米莉亚的全部心血和珍宝。正是在这里，她以持续不断的爱的热情照顾她的儿子，看着他度过了童年的许多苦难。老乔治不知何故又回到了他的体内，只是有所改善，就像从天堂回来一样。在一百种细微的语气、表情和动作中，这个孩子非常像他的父亲，以至于寡妇抱着他时心里激动不已。他常常问她流泪的原因。因为他和他父亲很像，所以她才毫不犹豫地告诉他。她不断地跟他谈论这位死去的父亲，并向天真的、好奇的孩子讲述她对乔治的爱。比她对乔治本人或她年轻时的任何红颜知己所做的都要多得多。她从来没有对父母提起过这件事，也不敢向他们吐露心声。小乔治很可能并不比他们更好地理解，但她毫无保留地将自己感伤的秘密倾注在他的耳朵里，也只倾注在他的耳朵里。这个女人的喜悦本身就是一种悲伤，或者至少是那么温柔，以至于她的表情是泪水。她的情感是如此的脆弱和颤抖，也许不应该在书中谈论它们。佩斯勒医生（现在是一位最富有的女医生，拥有一辆豪华的深绿色马车，有望迅速成为爵士，在曼彻斯特广场拥有一栋房子）告诉我，她在给孩子断奶时的悲伤是一个无法想象的景象。希律王。很多年前，他心肠很软，而他的妻子当时和之后很长一段时间都对阿米莉亚太太非常嫉妒。

Perhaps the doctor’s lady had good reason for her jealousy: most women shared it, of those who formed the small circle of Amelia’s acquaintance, and were quite angry at the enthusiasm with which the other sex regarded her. For almost all men who came near her loved her; though no doubt they would be at a loss to tell you why. She was not brilliant, nor witty, nor wise over much, nor extraordinarily handsome. But wherever she went she touched and charmed every one of the male sex, as invariably as she awakened the scorn and incredulity of her own sisterhood. I think it was her weakness which was her principal charm—a kind of sweet submission and softness, which seemed to appeal to each man she met for his sympathy and protection. We have seen how in the regiment, though she spoke but to few of George’s comrades there, all the swords of the young fellows at the mess-table would have leapt from their scabbards to fight round her; and so it was in the little narrow lodging-house and circle at Fulham, she interested and pleased everybody. If she had been Mrs. Mango herself, of the great house of Mango, Plantain, and Co., Crutched Friars, and the magnificent proprietress of the Pineries, Fulham, who gave summer dejeuners frequented by Dukes and Earls, and drove about the parish with magnificent yellow liveries and bay horses, such as the royal stables at Kensington themselves could not turn out—I say had she been Mrs. Mango herself, or her son’s wife, Lady Mary Mango (daughter of the Earl of Castlemouldy, who condescended to marry the head of the firm), the tradesmen of the neighbourhood could not pay her more honour than they invariably showed to the gentle young widow, when she passed by their doors, or made her humble purchases at their shops.
也许医生的女士有充分的理由嫉妒：大多数女性都有这种嫉妒，在阿米莉亚的小圈子里，她们对异性对她的热情感到非常愤怒。因为几乎所有接近她的男人都爱她；但毫无疑问他们会不知所措地告诉你原因。她并不聪明，也不机智，也不聪明，也不特别英俊。但无论她走到哪里，她都会感动并迷住每一位男性，就像她总是唤醒自己姐妹情谊的蔑视和怀疑一样。我认为她的弱点正是她的主要魅力——一种甜美的顺从和温柔，似乎吸引着她遇到的每个男人的同情和保护。我们已经看到，在团里，尽管她只和乔治的几个战友说过话，但餐桌上所有年轻人的剑都会从剑鞘中跳出来，围着她战斗。就这样，在富勒姆那间狭窄的小旅馆和圈子里，她引起了每个人的兴趣并取悦了每个人。如果她是芒果夫人本人，来自芒果、大蕉和公司的大家族，拐杖修道士，以及富勒姆松树庄园的宏伟女老板，她举办公爵和伯爵经常光顾的夏季晚宴，并在教区周围开车穿着华丽的黄色制服和海湾马，就像肯辛顿皇家马厩本身不可能出现的那样——我说她是芒果夫人本人，还是她儿子的妻子玛丽·芒果夫人（卡斯尔莫迪伯爵的女儿，她屈尊于当这位温柔的年轻寡妇经过他们家门口，或者在他们的商店里进行简陋的采购时，他们总是向这位温柔的年轻寡妇表现出更多的敬意。

Thus it was not only Mr. Pestler, the medical man, but Mr. Linton the young assistant, who doctored the servant maids and small tradesmen, and might be seen any day reading the Times in the surgery, who openly declared himself the slave of Mrs. Osborne. He was a personable young gentleman, more welcome at Mrs. Sedley’s lodgings than his principal; and if anything went wrong with Georgy, he would drop in twice or thrice in the day to see the little chap, and without so much as the thought of a fee. He would abstract lozenges, tamarinds, and other produce from the surgery-drawers for little Georgy’s benefit, and compounded draughts and mixtures for him of miraculous sweetness, so that it was quite a pleasure to the child to be ailing. He and Pestler, his chief, sat up two whole nights by the boy in that momentous and awful week when Georgy had the measles; and when you would have thought, from the mother’s terror, that there had never been measles in the world before. Would they have done as much for other people? Did they sit up for the folks at the Pineries, when Ralph Plantagenet, and Gwendoline, and Guinever Mango had the same juvenile complaint? Did they sit up for little Mary Clapp, the landlord’s daughter, who actually caught the disease of little Georgy? Truth compels one to say, no. They slept quite undisturbed, at least as far as she was concerned—pronounced hers to be a slight case, which would almost cure itself, sent her in a draught or two, and threw in bark when the child rallied, with perfect indifference, and just for form’s sake.
因此，不仅是医生佩斯勒先生，还有给女仆和小商人看病的年轻助手林惇先生，每天都可以在手术室里看到《泰晤士报》，他公开宣称自己是奴隶制的奴隶。奥斯本夫人。他是一位风度翩翩的年轻绅士，在塞德利夫人的住处比他的校长更受欢迎。如果乔吉出了什么问题，他会在一天内两次或三次去看望这个小家伙，而且根本不考虑收费。他会从手术抽屉里取出含片、罗望子和其他产品给小乔吉吃，并为他配制出具有神奇甜味的药水和混合物，让孩子在生病时感到非常高兴。在乔治患上麻疹的那个重要而可怕的一周里，他和他的首领佩斯特勒在男孩身边熬了整整两个晚上。当你因母亲的恐惧而想到世界上以前从未有过麻疹时。他们会为其他人做同样多的事情吗？当拉尔夫·金雀花、格温多兰和吉尼弗·芒果也有同样的少年抱怨时，他们是否为松树园的人们挺身而出？他们是否为房东的女儿小玛丽·克拉普（Mary Clapp）辩护，因为她实际上感染了小乔治（Georgy）的疾病？真相迫使人们说，不。他们睡得很安稳，至少对她来说是这样——宣布她的病只是个小病，几乎会自行痊愈，给她送了一两次草稿，当孩子恢复过来时，就用完全漠不关心的方式扔掉树皮，然后只是为了形式。

Again, there was the little French chevalier opposite, who gave lessons in his native tongue at various schools in the neighbourhood, and who might be heard in his apartment of nights playing tremulous old gavottes and minuets on a wheezy old fiddle. Whenever this powdered and courteous old man, who never missed a Sunday at the convent chapel at Hammersmith, and who was in all respects, thoughts, conduct, and bearing utterly unlike the bearded savages of his nation, who curse perfidious Albion, and scowl at you from over their cigars, in the Quadrant arcades at the present day— whenever the old Chevalier de Talonrouge spoke of Mistress Osborne, he would first finish his pinch of snuff, flick away the remaining particles of dust with a graceful wave of his hand, gather up his fingers again into a bunch, and, bringing them up to his mouth, blow them open with a kiss, exclaiming, Ah! la divine creature! He vowed and protested that when Amelia walked in the Brompton Lanes flowers grew in profusion under her feet. He called little Georgy Cupid, and asked him news of Venus, his mamma; and told the astonished Betty Flanagan that she was one of the Graces, and the favourite attendant of the Reine des Amours.
对面还有一位法国小骑士，他在附近的各个学校用自己的母语授课，晚上在他的公寓里可能会听到他用气喘吁吁的老小提琴演奏颤抖的老加沃特和小步舞曲。每当这个涂着粉、彬彬有礼的老人从不错过哈默史密斯修道院教堂的周日，他在所有方面、思想、行为和举止上都完全不同于他的国家里留着胡须的野蛮人，他们诅咒背信弃义的阿尔比恩，对背信弃义的阿尔比恩怒目而视。当今的象限拱廊里，老骑士德·塔隆鲁格每每提起奥斯本夫人，都会先吸完一口鼻烟，然后优雅地挥挥手，弹掉残留的灰尘，他再次将手指拢成一束，放到嘴边，用一个吻将它们吹开，大声喊道：啊！神圣的生物！他发誓并抗议说，当阿米莉亚走在布朗普顿巷时，她的脚下鲜花盛开。他打电话给小乔治·丘比特，询问他妈妈维纳斯的消息。她告诉惊讶的贝蒂·弗拉纳根，她是美惠三女神之一，也是爱王后最喜爱的侍从。

Instances might be multiplied of this easily gained and unconscious popularity. Did not Mr. Binny, the mild and genteel curate of the district chapel, which the family attended, call assiduously upon the widow, dandle the little boy on his knee, and offer to teach him Latin, to the anger of the elderly virgin, his sister, who kept house for him? ‘There is nothing in her, Beilby,’ the latter lady would say. ‘When she comes to tea here she does not speak a word during the whole evening. She is but a poor lackadaisical creature, and it is my belief has no heart at all. It is only her pretty face which all you gentlemen admire so. Miss Grits, who has five thousand pounds, and expectations besides, has twice as much character, and is a thousand times more agreeable to my taste; and if she were good-looking I know that you would think her perfection.’
这种轻而易举、无意识的流行的例子可能会成倍增加。宾尼先生，这位全家人都参加的地区礼拜堂的温和而有教养的神父，不是孜孜不倦地拜访寡妇，把小男孩放在他的膝盖上，并主动提出教他拉丁语，这让年老的处女很生气，他的姐姐，谁为他看家？ “她身上什么也没有，贝尔比，”后者会说。 “当她来这里喝茶时，整个晚上都没有说话。她只是一个可怜的、懒散的生物，我的信仰根本没有心。诸位先生们如此欣赏的，只是她那张漂亮的脸蛋。格里茨小姐身家五千英镑，除了期望之外，她的性格也比她强一倍，而且更符合我的口味一千倍。如果她长得漂亮，我知道你会认为她是完美的。

Very likely Miss Binny was right to a great extent. It IS the pretty face which creates sympathy in the hearts of men, those wicked rogues. A woman may possess the wisdom and chastity of Minerva, and we give no heed to her, if she has a plain face. What folly will not a pair of bright eyes make pardonable? What dulness may not red lips and sweet accents render pleasant? And so, with their usual sense of justice, ladies argue that because a woman is handsome, therefore she is a fool. O ladies, ladies! there are some of you who are neither handsome nor wise.
很可能宾尼小姐在很大程度上是对的。正是这张漂亮的脸蛋在人们这些邪恶的流氓心中引起了同情。一个女人可能拥有密涅瓦般的智慧和贞洁，但如果她长着一张朴素的脸，我们就不会理睬她。有什么愚蠢的行为是一双明亮的眼睛不能原谅的呢？红唇和甜美的口音不能带来什么沉闷的愉悦？因此，女士们凭着她们一贯的正义感，认为女人因为英俊，所以是个傻瓜。噢，女士们，女士们！你们中有些人既不英俊也不聪明。

These are but trivial incidents to recount in the life of our heroine. Her tale does not deal in wonders, as the gentle reader has already no doubt perceived; and if a journal had been kept of her proceedings during the seven years after the birth of her son, there would be found few incidents more remarkable in it than that of the measles, recorded in the foregoing page. Yes, one day, and greatly to her wonder, the Reverend Mr. Binny, just mentioned, asked her to change her name of Osborne for his own; when, with deep blushes and tears in her eyes and voice, she thanked him for his regard for her, expressed gratitude for his attentions to her and to her poor little boy, but said that she never, never could think of any but—but the husband whom she had lost.
这些只是我们女主人公生活中的琐碎事件。正如温和的读者无疑已经意识到的那样，她的故事并没有带来奇迹。如果她在儿子出生后的七年里记下她的经历，就会发现其中很少有比前一页记录的麻疹事件更引人注目的事件了。是的，有一天，令她大为惊奇的是，刚才提到的宾尼牧师先生要求她把奥斯本的名字改成他自己的名字。当她的眼睛和声音里满是深红和泪水时，她感谢他对她的关心，对他对她和她可怜的小男孩的关心表示感谢，但她说她永远、永远想不到除了——但是她失去的丈夫。

On the twenty-fifth of April, and the eighteenth of June, the days of marriage and widowhood, she kept her room entirely, consecrating them (and we do not know how many hours of solitary night-thought, her little boy sleeping in his crib by her bedside) to the memory of that departed friend. During the day she was more active. She had to teach George to read and to write and a little to draw. She read books, in order that she might tell him stories from them. As his eyes opened and his mind expanded under the influence of the outward nature round about him, she taught the child, to the best of her humble power, to acknowledge the Maker of all, and every night and every morning he and she—(in that awful and touching communion which I think must bring a thrill to the heart of every man who witnesses or who remembers it)—the mother and the little boy— prayed to Our Father together, the mother pleading with all her gentle heart, the child lisping after her as she spoke. And each time they prayed to God to bless dear Papa, as if he were alive and in the room with them. To wash and dress this young gentleman—to take him for a run of the mornings, before breakfast, and the retreat of grandpapa for ‘business’—to make for him the most wonderful and ingenious dresses, for which end the thrifty widow cut up and altered every available little bit of finery which she possessed out of her wardrobe during her marriage—for Mrs. Osborne herself (greatly to her mother’s vexation, who preferred fine clothes, especially since her misfortunes) always wore a black gown and a straw bonnet with a black ribbon—occupied her many hours of the day. Others she had to spare, at the service of her mother and her old father. She had taken the pains to learn, and used to play cribbage with this gentleman on the nights when he did not go to his club. She sang for him when he was so minded, and it was a good sign, for he invariably fell into a comfortable sleep during the music. She wrote out his numerous memorials, letters, prospectuses, and projects. It was in her handwriting that most of the old gentleman’s former acquaintances were informed that he had become an agent for the Black Diamond and Anti-Cinder Coal Company and could supply his friends and the public with the best coals at —s. per chaldron. All he did was to sign the circulars with his flourish and signature, and direct them in a shaky, clerklike hand. One of these papers was sent to Major Dobbin,—Regt., care of Messrs. Cox and Greenwood; but the Major being in Madras at the time, had no particular call for coals. He knew, though, the hand which had written the prospectus. Good God! what would he not have given to hold it in his own! A second prospectus came out, informing the Major that J. Sedley and Company, having established agencies at Oporto, Bordeaux, and St. Mary’s, were enabled to offer to their friends and the public generally the finest and most celebrated growths of ports, sherries, and claret wines at reasonable prices and under extraordinary advantages. Acting upon this hint, Dobbin furiously canvassed the governor, the commander-in-chief, the judges, the regiments, and everybody whom he knew in the Presidency, and sent home to Sedley and Co. orders for wine which perfectly astonished Mr. Sedley and Mr. Clapp, who was the Co. in the business. But no more orders came after that first burst of good fortune, on which poor old Sedley was about to build a house in the City, a regiment of clerks, a dock to himself, and correspondents all over the world. The old gentleman’s former taste in wine had gone: the curses of the mess-room assailed Major Dobbin for the vile drinks he had been the means of introducing there; and he bought back a great quantity of the wine and sold it at public outcry, at an enormous loss to himself. As for Jos, who was by this time promoted to a seat at the Revenue Board at Calcutta, he was wild with rage when the post brought him out a bundle of these Bacchanalian prospectuses, with a private note from his father, telling Jos that his senior counted upon him in this enterprise, and had consigned a quantity of select wines to him, as per invoice, drawing bills upon him for the amount of the same. Jos, who would no more have it supposed that his father, Jos Sedley’s father, of the Board of Revenue, was a wine merchant asking for orders, than that he was Jack Ketch, refused the bills with scorn, wrote back contumeliously to the old gentleman, bidding him to mind his own affairs; and the protested paper coming back, Sedley and Co. had to take it up, with the profits which they had made out of the Madras venture, and with a little portion of Emmy’s savings.
在四月二十五日和六月十八日，结婚和守寡的日子里，她完全保留了自己的房间，将它们神圣化（我们不知道她的小男孩睡在他的床上，独自思考了多少小时）床边的婴儿床）以纪念那位去世的朋友。白天她比较活跃。她必须教乔治读书、写字，还有一点画画。她读书，以便给他讲书里的故事。当他的眼睛睁开，他的思想在他周围的外在自然的影响下扩展时，她尽其微薄之力教导孩子承认万物的创造者，每天晚上和每天早上他和她——（在那个可怕而感人的圣餐中，我认为这一定会让每个目睹或记得它的人的心感到激动）——母亲和小男孩一起向我们的父亲祈祷，母亲用她所有温柔的心恳求，当她说话时，孩子在她身后口齿不清地跟着她。每次他们都祈求上帝保佑亲爱的爸爸，就好像他还活着并和他们在房间里一样。给这位年轻的绅士洗澡和穿衣——早上带他去跑步，吃早饭前，以及爷爷因“公事”而休息——为他做最漂亮、最巧妙的衣服，为此节俭的寡妇剪裁了并改变了她在婚姻期间从衣柜里拿出的每一件可用的华丽服饰——因为奥斯本夫人本人（这让她母亲很恼火，她更喜欢漂亮的衣服，特别是因为她的不幸）总是穿着黑色礼服和草帽系着黑丝带——占据了她一天中的很多时间。其他的她必须腾出，为她的母亲和她的老父亲服务。 她煞费苦心地学习，常常在这位绅士不去俱乐部的晚上和他一起玩纸牌游戏。当他如此专注的时候，她就为他唱歌，这是一个好兆头，因为他总是在音乐声中舒适地睡着了。她写下了他的众多回忆录、信件、招股说明书和项目。正是在她的笔迹中，这位老先生的大多数旧识都被告知，他已成为黑钻石和反煤渣煤炭公司的代理人，可以向他的朋友和公众提供——s的最好的煤炭。每查德隆。他所做的只是用他的笔迹和签名在传单上签名，并用颤抖的、职员般的手指挥它们。其中一份文件被寄给多宾少校，由考克斯和格林伍德先生保管；但少校当时在马德拉斯，并没有特别需要煤炭。不过，他认识招股说明书的出手。天哪！为了将它据为己有，他愿意付出什么代价！第二份招股说明书出来了，告知少校，J.塞德利公司在波尔图、波尔多和圣玛丽建立了代理机构，能够向他们的朋友和公众提供最好、最著名的波特酒、雪利酒。 、 和红葡萄酒，价格合理，优势非凡。根据这一暗示，多宾猛烈地向州长、总司令、法官、军团以及他在总统职位上认识的每一个人进行游说，并向塞德利公司发出了订购葡萄酒的订单，这让塞德利先生大吃一惊。克拉普先生是这家公司的创始人。 但在第一次好运爆发之后，可怜的老塞德利准备在城里建造一栋房子、一队职员、一个属于自己的码头以及遍布世界各地的通讯员，之后就没有再接到任何命令。老先生以前对葡萄酒的品味已经消失了：餐厅里的咒骂声攻击着多宾少校，因为他在餐厅里引入了劣质饮料；他买回了大量的酒，并在公众的强烈抗议下将其出售，给自己带来了巨大的损失。至于乔斯，此时他已经晋升为加尔各答税务局的一员，当邮报给他带来一捆酒神节招股说明书，其中附有他父亲的私人便条，告诉乔斯他的前辈在这件事上对他很信任，并按照发票委托了一定数量的精选葡萄酒给他，并按照相同的金额向他开具账单。乔斯不愿相信他的父亲，乔斯·塞德利的父亲，税务局的父亲，是一位向他索要订单的酒商，也不愿相信他是杰克·凯奇，他轻蔑地拒绝了账单，并侮辱性地给老先生回了信。先生，吩咐他管好自己的事；被抗议的报纸又回来了，塞德利和公司不得不用他们从马德拉斯合资企业中获得的利润以及艾美奖的一小部分积蓄来接受它。

Besides her pension of fifty pounds a year, there had been five hundred pounds, as her husband’s executor stated, left in the agent’s hands at the time of Osborne’s demise, which sum, as George’s guardian, Dobbin proposed to put out at 8 per cent in an Indian house of agency. Mr. Sedley, who thought the Major had some roguish intentions of his own about the money, was strongly against this plan; and he went to the agents to protest personally against the employment of the money in question, when he learned, to his surprise, that there had been no such sum in their hands, that all the late Captain’s assets did not amount to a hundred pounds, and that the five hundred pounds in question must be a separate sum, of which Major Dobbin knew the particulars. More than ever convinced that there was some roguery, old Sedley pursued the Major. As his daughter’s nearest friend, he demanded with a high hand a statement of the late Captain’s accounts. Dobbin’s stammering, blushing, and awkwardness added to the other’s convictions that he had a rogue to deal with, and in a majestic tone he told that officer a piece of his mind, as he called it, simply stating his belief that the Major was unlawfully detaining his late son-in-law’s money.
正如她丈夫的遗嘱执行人所说，在奥斯本去世时，除了她每年五十英镑的养老金外，还有五百英镑留在代理人手中，作为乔治的监护人，多宾提议以 8% 的比例拿出这笔钱。在印度的一家代理机构里。塞德利先生认为少校在这笔钱上有一些不怀好意的意图，因此强烈反对这个计划。他亲自去特工那里抗议使用这些钱，但令他惊讶的是，他得知他们手中并没有这笔钱，已故上尉的所有资产不到一百英镑，而且所涉及的五百英镑必须是单独的一笔钱，多宾少校知道其中的细节。老塞德利比以往任何时候都更确信其中存在欺诈行为，于是开始追捕少校。作为他女儿最亲密的朋友，他以高压手段要求已故船长提供账目声明。多宾的结巴、脸红和尴尬让对方更加确信他要对付的是一个流氓，他用一种威严的语气告诉那位军官他的想法，正如他所说的那样，只是表明他相信少校是非法的。扣留了已故女婿的钱。

Dobbin at this lost all patience, and if his accuser had not been so old and so broken, a quarrel might have ensued between them at the Slaughters’ Coffee-house, in a box of which place of entertainment the gentlemen had their colloquy. ‘Come upstairs, sir,’ lisped out the Major. ‘I insist on your coming up the stairs, and I will show which is the injured party, poor George or I”; and, dragging the old gentleman up to his bedroom, he produced from his desk Osborne’s accounts, and a bundle of IOU’s which the latter had given, who, to do him justice, was always ready to give an IOU. ‘He paid his bills in England,’ Dobbin added, ‘but he had not a hundred pounds in the world when he fell. I and one or two of his brother officers made up the little sum, which was all that we could spare, and you dare tell us that we are trying to cheat the widow and the orphan.’ Sedley was very contrite and humbled, though the fact is that William Dobbin had told a great falsehood to the old gentleman; having himself given every shilling of the money, having buried his friend, and paid all the fees and charges incident upon the calamity and removal of poor Amelia.
多宾对此失去了所有的耐心，如果他的原告不是那么老，那么破碎，他们之间可能会在屠宰咖啡馆里发生争吵，在这个娱乐场所的包厢里，先生们进行了交谈。 “上楼来吧，先生。”少校用口齿不清的声音说道。 “我坚持让你上楼梯，我会告诉你谁是受伤的一方，可怜的乔治还是我”；他把老先生拖进卧室，从办公桌上拿出奥斯本的账目，以及奥斯本给的一捆欠条，公平地说，奥斯本总是准备好给他一张欠条。 “他在英国支付账单，”多宾补充道，“但当他倒下时，他身上还没有一百英镑。”我和他的一两个兄弟军官凑了一点钱，这是我们能剩下的全部钱了，你竟敢告诉我们，我们是想欺骗寡妇和孤儿。”塞德利非常悔恨和谦卑，尽管事实上，威廉·多宾对这位老先生撒了一个弥天大谎。他自己拿出了每一先令，埋葬了他的朋友，并支付了因灾难和可怜的阿米莉亚的搬迁而产生的所有费用和费用。

About these expenses old Osborne had never given himself any trouble to think, nor any other relative of Amelia, nor Amelia herself, indeed. She trusted to Major Dobbin as an accountant, took his somewhat confused calculations for granted, and never once suspected how much she was in his debt.
对于这些开支，老奥斯本从来没有费心去思考过，阿米莉亚的其他亲戚也没有，甚至阿米莉亚本人也没有。她相信多宾少校是一名会计师，认为他有些混乱的计算是理所当然的，从来没有怀疑过她欠他多少钱。

Twice or thrice in the year, according to her promise, she wrote him letters to Madras, letters all about little Georgy. How he treasured these papers! Whenever Amelia wrote he answered, and not until then. But he sent over endless remembrances of himself to his godson and to her. He ordered and sent a box of scarfs and a grand ivory set of chess-men from China. The pawns were little green and white men, with real swords and shields; the knights were on horseback, the castles were on the backs of elephants. ‘Mrs. Mango’s own set at the Pineries was not so fine,’ Mr. Pestler remarked. These chess-men were the delight of Georgy’s life, who printed his first letter in acknowledgement of this gift of his godpapa. He sent over preserves and pickles, which latter the young gentleman tried surreptitiously in the sideboard and half-killed himself with eating. He thought it was a judgement upon him for stealing, they were so hot. Emmy wrote a comical little account of this mishap to the Major: it pleased him to think that her spirits were rallying and that she could be merry sometimes now. He sent over a pair of shawls, a white one for her and a black one with palm-leaves for her mother, and a pair of red scarfs, as winter wrappers, for old Mr. Sedley and George. The shawls were worth fifty guineas apiece at the very least, as Mrs. Sedley knew. She wore hers in state at church at Brompton, and was congratulated by her female friends upon the splendid acquisition. Emmy’s, too, became prettily her modest black gown. ‘What a pity it is she won’t think of him!’ Mrs. Sedley remarked to Mrs. Clapp and to all her friends of Brompton. ‘Jos never sent us such presents, I am sure, and grudges us everything. It is evident that the Major is over head and ears in love with her; and yet, whenever I so much as hint it, she turns red and begins to cry and goes and sits upstairs with her miniature. I’m sick of that miniature. I wish we had never seen those odious purse-proud Osbornes.’
按照她的承诺，她每年给他写两三次信给马德拉斯，信里全都是关于小乔吉的事。他多么珍惜这些文件啊！每当阿米莉亚写信时，他都会回复，直到那时。但他向他的教子和她寄去了无尽的回忆。他从中国订购并寄来了一盒围巾和一套象牙棋子。棋子是绿色和白色的小人，拿着真正的剑和盾牌。骑士骑在马背上，城堡骑在大象背上。 '太太。 “Mango 在 Pineries 的布景不太好，”佩斯勒先生说道。这些棋子是乔吉一生的乐趣，他打印了他的第一封信，以感谢他的教父的这份礼物。他送来了蜜饯和泡菜，后者在餐具柜里偷偷尝了尝，吃得半死。他以为这是对他偷窃的惩罚，他们太热了。艾美给少校写了一段滑稽的小故事，描述了这次不幸事件：想到她的精神正在振作，有时她会很高兴，他很高兴。他送来了两条披肩，一条是白色的给她，一条黑色的有棕榈叶的给她母亲，还有一条红围巾，给老塞德利先生和乔治当冬天的裹衣。塞德利夫人知道，每条围巾至少值五十几尼。她在布朗普顿的教堂里穿着这件衣服，并受到了她的女性朋友们的祝贺。艾美的礼服也变成了她朴素的黑色礼服。 “多么可惜，她不会想起他！”塞德利夫人对克拉普夫人和布朗普顿的所有朋友说道。 “我确信乔斯从来没有给我们送过这样的礼物，他对我们的一切都感到不满。 很明显，少校非常爱她。然而，只要我稍稍暗示一下，她就会脸红，开始哭泣，然后拿着她的小模型走到楼上坐下。我厌倦了那个微型。我希望我们从未见过那些可恶的、以钱包为荣的奥斯本家族。’

Amidst such humble scenes and associates George’s early youth was passed, and the boy grew up delicate, sensitive, imperious, womanbred—domineering the gentle mother whom he loved with passionate affection. He ruled all the rest of the little world round about him. As he grew, the elders were amazed at his haughty manner and his constant likeness to his father. He asked questions about everything, as inquiring youth will do. The profundity of his remarks and interrogatories astonished his old grandfather, who perfectly bored the club at the tavern with stories about the little lad’s learning and genius. He suffered his grandmother with a goodhumoured indifference. The small circle round about him believed that the equal of the boy did not exist upon the earth. Georgy inherited his father’s pride, and perhaps thought they were not wrong.
在这样卑微的场景和伙伴中，乔治度过了他的少年时代，这个男孩长大了，精致、敏感、专横、有女人味——专横跋扈、专横，他深爱着他温柔的母亲。他统治着他周围的小世界。随着他的成长，长辈们对他傲慢的举止和他与父亲的一贯相似感到惊讶。他问一切问题，就像年轻人都会做的那样。他的言论和质问的深刻性让他的老祖父感到惊讶，他用关于这个小伙子的学识和天才的故事让酒馆里的俱乐部感到非常无聊。他以一种幽默的冷漠态度对待他的祖母。他周围的小圈子相信地球上不存在与这个男孩同等的人。乔治继承了父亲的骄傲，也许认为他们没有错。

When he grew to be about six years old, Dobbin began to write to him very much. The Major wanted to hear that Georgy was going to a school and hoped he would acquit himself with credit there: or would he have a good tutor at home? It was time that he should begin to learn; and his godfather and guardian hinted that he hoped to be allowed to defray the charges of the boy’s education, which would fall heavily upon his mother’s straitened income. The Major, in a word, was always thinking about Amelia and her little boy, and by orders to his agents kept the latter provided with picture-books, paint-boxes, desks, and all conceivable implements of amusement and instruction. Three days before George’s sixth birthday a gentleman in a gig, accompanied by a servant, drove up to Mr. Sedley’s house and asked to see Master George Osborne: it was Mr. Woolsey, military tailor, of Conduit Street, who came at the Major’s order to measure the young gentleman for a suit of clothes. He had had the honour of making for the Captain, the young gentleman’s father. Sometimes, too, and by the Major’s desire no doubt, his sisters, the Misses Dobbin, would call in the family carriage to take Amelia and the little boy to drive if they were so inclined. The patronage and kindness of these ladies was very uncomfortable to Amelia, but she bore it meekly enough, for her nature was to yield; and, besides, the carriage and its splendours gave little Georgy immense pleasure. The ladies begged occasionally that the child might pass a day with them, and he was always glad to go to that fine garden-house at Denmark Hill, where they lived, and where there were such fine grapes in the hot-houses and peaches on the walls.
当他大约六岁的时候，多宾开始经常给他写信。少校想知道乔吉要去一所学校，并希望他能在那里取得学分：或者他在家里有一个好的导师吗？是时候他应该开始学习了；他的教父兼监护人暗示，他希望能够支付男孩的教育费用，这将严重影响他母亲的收入。总之，少校总是惦记着阿米莉亚和她的小男孩，并根据他的特工的命令，为后者提供了图画书、颜料盒、书桌以及所有可以想象的娱乐和教学工具。乔治六岁生日的前三天，一位穿着马车的绅士在仆人的陪同下，开车到塞德利先生的家，要求见乔治·奥斯本大师：来自康德街的军装裁缝伍尔西先生来到了少校家。为了给这位年轻的绅士量一套衣服。他有幸去找船长，这位年轻绅士的父亲。有时，毫无疑问，出于少校的意愿，他的姐妹们，多宾小姐，也会叫来家庭马车，载着阿米莉亚和小男孩开车，如果她们愿意的话。这些女士的庇护和善意让阿米莉亚感到非常不舒服，但她很温顺地忍受着，因为她的本性就是屈服。此外，马车及其华丽给小乔吉带来了巨大的快乐。女士们偶尔恳求孩子可以和她们一起度过一天，他总是很高兴去丹麦山那座漂亮的花园洋房，他们住在那里，那里的温室里有很好的葡萄，地上有桃子。墙壁。

One day they kindly came over to Amelia with news which they were SURE would delight her—something VERY interesting about their dear William.
有一天，他们好心地来到阿米莉亚身边，带来了他们肯定会让她高兴的消息——关于他们亲爱的威廉的一件非常有趣的事情。

‘What was it: was he coming home?’ she asked with pleasure beaming in her eyes.
“什么事：他要回家了吗？”她问道，眼里闪着喜悦的光芒。

‘Oh, no—not the least—but they had very good reason to believe that dear William was about to be married—and to a relation of a very dear friend of Amelia’s—to Miss Glorvina O’Dowd, Sir Michael O’Dowd’s sister, who had gone out to join Lady O’Dowd at Madras—a very beautiful and accomplished girl, everybody said.’
“哦，不——不是最不重要的——但是他们有充分的理由相信亲爱的威廉即将结婚——而且嫁给了阿米莉亚的一位非常亲密的朋友的亲戚——迈克尔·奥多德爵士的格洛维娜·奥多德小姐。 “姐姐，她去马德拉斯去见奥多德夫人——大家都说她是一个非常美丽、多才多艺的女孩。”

Amelia said ‘Oh!’ Amelia was very VERY happy indeed. But she supposed Glorvina could not be like her old acquaintance, who was most kind—but—but she was very happy indeed. And by some impulse of which I cannot explain the meaning, she took George in her arms and kissed him with an extraordinary tenderness. Her eyes were quite moist when she put the child down; and she scarcely spoke a word during the whole of the drive—though she was so very happy indeed.
阿米莉亚说“哦！”阿米莉亚确实非常非常高兴。但她认为格洛维娜不可能像她的老熟人一样，她是最友善的——但是——但她确实很高兴。出于某种我无法解释其含义的冲动，她把乔治抱在怀里，极其温柔地吻了他。当她把孩子放下时，她的眼睛湿润了。一路上她几乎没说一句话——尽管她确实非常高兴。

Chapter XXXIX
第三十九章


A Cynical Chapter
愤世嫉俗的一章

Our duty now takes us back for a brief space to some old Hampshire acquaintances of ours, whose hopes respecting the disposal of their rich kinswoman’s property were so woefully disappointed. After counting upon thirty thousand pounds from his sister, it was a heavy blow. to Bute Crawley to receive but five; out of which sum, when he had paid his own debts and those of Jim, his son at college, a very small fragment remained to portion off his four plain daughters. Mrs. Bute never knew, or at least never acknowledged, how far her own tyrannous behaviour had tended to ruin her husband. All that woman could do, she vowed and protested she had done. Was it her fault if she did not possess those sycophantic arts which her hypocritical nephew, Pitt Crawley, practised? She wished him all the happiness which he merited out of his ill-gotten gains. ‘At least the money will remain in the family,’ she said charitably. ‘Pitt will never spend it, my dear, that is quite certain; for a greater miser does not exist in England, and he is as odious, though in a different way, as his spendthrift brother, the abandoned Rawdon.’
现在，我们的职责是让我们短暂地回到汉普郡的一些老熟人那里，他们希望尊重富有的女亲戚的财产的处置，但他们的希望却令人悲哀地失望了。指望从姐姐那里得到三万英镑后，这对他来说是一个沉重的打击。布特·克劳利只收到五个；当他还清了自己和他上大学的儿子吉姆的债务后，其中的一小部分还剩下一小部分，可以分给他的四个相貌平庸的女儿。布特夫人从来不知道，或者至少从来不承认，她自己的暴虐行为在多大程度上毁了她的丈夫。那个女人能做的一切，她发誓并抗议她已经做了。如果她不具备她虚伪的侄子皮特·克劳利所奉行的那些阿谀奉承的艺术，那是她的错吗？她祝愿他从不义之财中获得所有的幸福。 “至少这些钱会留在家里，”她仁慈地说。 “皮特永远不会花掉它，亲爱的，这是肯定的；因为英国不存在比他更守财奴的人，他和他的挥霍无度的兄弟，被遗弃的罗登一样令人憎恶，尽管方式不同。

So Mrs. Bute, after the first shock of rage and disappointment, began to accommodate herself as best she could to her altered fortunes and to save and retrench with all her might. She instructed her daughters how to bear poverty cheerfully, and invented a thousand notable methods to conceal or evade it. She took them about to balls and public places in the neighbourhood, with praiseworthy energy; nay, she entertained her friends in a hospitable comfortable manner at the Rectory, and much more frequently than before dear Miss Crawley’s legacy had fallen in. From her outward bearing nobody would have supposed that the family had been disappointed in their expectations, or have guessed from her frequent appearance in public how she pinched and starved at home. Her girls had more milliners’ furniture than they had ever enjoyed before. They appeared perseveringly at the Winchester and Southampton assemblies; they penetrated to Cowes for the race-balls and regatta-gaieties there; and their carriage, with the horses taken from the plough, was at work perpetually, until it began almost to be believed that the four sisters had had fortunes left them by their aunt, whose name the family never mentioned in public but with the most tender gratitude and regard. I know no sort of lying which is more frequent in Vanity Fair than this, and it may be remarked how people who practise it take credit to themselves for their hypocrisy, and fancy that they are exceedingly virtuous and praiseworthy, because they are able to deceive the world with regard to the extent of their means.
因此，布特夫人在经历了第一次愤怒和失望的冲击之后，开始尽其所能地适应自己命运的改变，并竭尽全力储蓄和紧缩开支。她教导女儿们如何快乐地忍受贫困，并发明了一千种著名的方法来隐藏或逃避贫困。她带着值得称赞的精力带着他们去附近的舞会和公共场所。不仅如此，她在教区长官邸以热情好客、舒适的方式款待了她的朋友们，而且比以前更频繁地招待了亲爱的克劳利小姐的遗产。从她的外表来看，没有人会认为这家人对他们的期望感到失望，或者猜到从她经常出现在公共场合的情况来看，她在家里是如何挨饿的。她的女儿们拥有的女帽家具比她们以前享受过的还要多。他们坚持不懈地出现在温彻斯特和南安普敦的集会上。他们深入考斯，参加那里的赛马比赛和赛船会。他们的马车和从犁里取来的马匹一直在工作，直到人们开始几乎相信四姐妹的姨妈留给了她们财产，全家人从未在公开场合提及过姨妈的名字，但以最温柔的方式提及。感激和尊重。我不知道在《名利场》中最常见的谎言是什么，人们可能会注意到，那些说谎的人因自己的虚伪而自以为是，并自以为自己非常有道德，值得赞扬，因为他们能够欺骗人。世界就他们的手段而言。

Mrs. Bute certainly thought herself one of the most virtuous women in England, and the sight of her happy family was an edifying one to strangers. They were so cheerful, so loving, so well-educated, so simple! Martha painted flowers exquisitely and furnished half the charity bazaars in the county. Emma was a regular County Bulbul, and her verses in the Hampshire Telegraph were the glory of its Poet’s Corner. Fanny and Matilda sang duets together, Mamma playing the piano, and the other two sisters sitting with their arms round each other’s waists and listening affectionately. Nobody saw the poor girls drumming at the duets in private. No one saw Mamma drilling them rigidly hour after hour. In a word, Mrs. Bute put a good face against fortune and kept up appearances in the most virtuous manner.
布特夫人当然认为自己是英国最贤惠的女性之一，看到她幸福的家庭对陌生人来说是一种启发。他们是那么开朗，那么有爱心，那么受过良好教育，那么简单！玛莎画的花朵精美，布置了全县一半的慈善集市。艾玛是一名普通的鹎鸟，她在《汉普郡电讯报》上的诗句是该报诗人角的荣耀。范妮和玛蒂尔达一起唱二重唱，妈妈弹钢琴，另外两姐妹互相搂着腰坐着，深情地听着。没有人看到这些可怜的女孩私下在二重唱中打鼓。没有人看到妈妈一小时又一小时地严格地训练它们。总而言之，布特夫人以一张好脸来对抗命运，以最贤惠的方式保持外表。

Everything that a good and respectable mother could do Mrs. Bute did. She got over yachting men from Southampton, parsons from the Cathedral Close at Winchester, and officers from the barracks there. She tried to inveigle the young barristers at assizes and encouraged Jim to bring home friends with whom he went out hunting with the H. H. What will not a mother do for the benefit of her beloved ones?
一位善良而受人尊敬的母亲能做的一切，比特夫人都做了。她克服了来自南安普敦的游艇船员、温彻斯特大教堂附近的牧师以及那里军营的军官。她试图在巡回法庭上欺骗年轻的大律师，并鼓励吉姆带一些和他一起出去打猎的朋友回家。为了她所爱的人的利益，母亲有什么不会做的呢？

Between such a woman and her brother-in-law, the odious Baronet at the Hall, it is manifest that there could be very little in common. The rupture between Bute and his brother Sir Pitt was complete; indeed, between Sir Pitt and the whole county, to which the old man was a scandal. His dislike for respectable society increased with age, and the lodge-gates had not opened to a gentleman’s carriagewheels since Pitt and Lady Jane came to pay their visit of duty after their marriage.
在这样一个女人和她的妹夫、大厅里可恶的准男爵之间，显然没有什么共同点。布特和他的兄弟皮特爵士之间彻底决裂。事实上，在皮特爵士和整个县之间，这位老人是一个丑闻。随着年龄的增长，他对受人尊敬的社会的厌恶与日俱增，自从皮特和简夫人结婚后来拜访后，小屋的大门就没有向绅士的车轮打开过。

That was an awful and unfortunate visit, never to be thought of by the family without horror. Pitt begged his wife, with a ghastly countenance, never to speak of it, and it was only through Mrs. Bute herself, who still knew everything which took place at the Hall, that the circumstances of Sir Pitt’s reception of his son and daughter-in-law were ever known at all.
那是一次可怕而不幸的访问，家人一想起就感到恐惧。皮特面色惨白地恳求他的妻子不要说起这件事，只有通过布特夫人本人，她仍然知道在大厅里发生的一切，皮特爵士接待他的儿子和女儿的情况——姻亲是众所周知的。

As they drove up the avenue of the park in their neat and wellappointed carriage, Pitt remarked with dismay and wrath great gaps among the trees—his trees—which the old Baronet was felling entirely without license. The park wore an aspect of utter dreariness and ruin. The drives were ill kept, and the neat carriage splashed and floundered in muddy pools along the road. The great sweep in front of the terrace and entrance stair was black and covered with mosses; the once trim flower-beds rank and weedy. Shutters were up along almost the whole line of the house; the great hall-door was unbarred after much ringing of the bell; an individual in ribbons was seen flitting up the black oak stair, as Horrocks at length admitted the heir of Queen’s Crawley and his bride into the halls of their fathers. He led the way into Sir Pitt’s ‘Library,’ as it was called, the fumes of tobacco growing stronger as Pitt and Lady Jane approached that apartment, ‘Sir Pitt ain’t very well,’ Horrocks remarked apologetically and hinted that his master was afflicted with lumbago.
当他们开着整洁、设备齐全的马车沿着公园大道行驶时，皮特沮丧而愤怒地注意到那些树——他的树——之间有很大的空隙，老男爵完全没有许可证就砍伐了这些树。公园里一片荒凉和废墟。车道保养得不好，整洁的马车在路边的泥潭里溅起水花，挣扎着。露台和入口楼梯前的大草坪是黑色的，上面长满了苔藓。曾经修剪整齐的花坛如今已变得杂草丛生。房子的几乎整条线都装有百叶窗。门铃响了好一会儿之后，大厅的大门才被打开。当霍罗克斯最终允许女王克劳利的继承人和他的新娘进入他们父亲的大厅时，有人看到一个身着丝带的人飞快地爬上黑色橡木楼梯。他领着人走进了皮特爵士的“图书馆”，正如它所说的那样，当皮特和简夫人走近那间公寓时，烟草的烟雾变得越来越浓。“皮特爵士不太舒服，”霍罗克斯抱歉地说道，并暗示他的主人正在患有腰痛。

The library looked out on the front walk and park. Sir Pitt had opened one of the windows, and was bawling out thence to the postilion and Pitt’s servant, who seemed to be about to take the baggage down.
图书馆可以看到前面的人行道和公园。皮特爵士打开了一扇窗户，正对着行李员和皮特的仆人大喊大叫，他们似乎正要把行李搬下来。

‘Don’t move none of them trunks,’ he cried, pointing with a pipe which he held in his hand. ‘It’s only a morning visit, Tucker, you fool. Lor, what cracks that off hoss has in his heels! Ain’t there no one at the King’s Head to rub ‘em a little? How do, Pitt? How do, my dear? Come to see the old man, hay? ‘Gad—you’ve a pretty face, too. You ain’t like that old horse-godmother, your mother. Come and give old Pitt a kiss, like a good little gal.’
“不要动这些箱子，”他用手中的一根管子指着，喊道。 “这只是早上的一次拜访，塔克，你这个傻瓜。天啊，那个家伙的脚跟上有什么裂缝啊！国王之首不是没有人来摩擦一下吗？怎么样，皮特？怎么样，亲爱的？来看看老头子吧？ ‘盖德——你的脸也很漂亮。你不像那个老马教母，你的母亲。来给老皮特一个吻吧，就像一个好小女孩一样。”

The embrace disconcerted the daughter-in-law somewhat, as the caresses of the old gentleman, unshorn and perfumed with tobacco, might well do. But she remembered that her brother Southdown had mustachios, and smoked cigars, and submitted to the Baronet with a tolerable grace.
这个拥抱让儿媳妇有些不安，就像那位未剃须、散发着烟草香味的老绅士的爱抚一样。但她记得她的哥哥绍斯当留着小胡子，抽雪茄，并且以一种还算优雅的态度服从从男爵。

‘Pitt has got vat,’ said the Baronet, after this mark of affection. ‘Does he read ee very long zermons, my dear? Hundredth Psalm, Evening Hymn, hay Pitt? Go and get a glass of Malmsey and a cake for my Lady Jane, Horrocks, you great big booby, and don’t stand stearing there like a fat pig. I won’t ask you to stop, my dear; you’ll find it too stoopid, and so should I too along a Pitt. I’m an old man now, and like my own ways, and my pipe and backgammon of a night.’
“皮特得到了增值税，”从男爵在表达了这一爱意后说道。 “亲爱的，他读的书很长吗？”第一百首诗篇，晚祷，干草皮特？去给我的简女士喝一杯马尔姆西酒和一块蛋糕，霍罗克斯，你这个大笨蛋，别像一头肥猪一样站在那儿。我不会要求你停下来，亲爱的；你会发现它太愚蠢了，我也应该沿着皮特。我现在已经是个老人了，喜欢我自己的方式，喜欢我晚上的烟斗和西洋双陆棋。

‘I can play at backgammon, sir,’ said Lady Jane, laughing. ‘I used to play with Papa and Miss Crawley, didn’t I, Mr. Crawley?’
“我会玩双陆棋，先生，”简女士笑着说。 “我以前经常和爸爸和克劳利小姐一起玩，不是吗，克劳利先生？”

‘Lady Jane can play, sir, at the game to which you state that you are so partial,’ Pitt said haughtily.
“先生，简女士可以参加你所说的你如此偏爱的游戏，”皮特傲慢地说。

But she wawn’t stop for all that. Naw, naw, goo back to Mudbury and give Mrs. Rincer a benefit; or drive down to the Rectory and ask Buty for a dinner. He’ll be charmed to see you, you know; he’s so much obliged to you for gettin’ the old woman’s money. Ha, ha! Some of it will do to patch up the Hall when I’m gone.’
但她并没有停下来。不，不，滚回马德伯里，给林瑟太太一个好处；或者开车去教区长官邸请巴特吃晚饭。你知道，他见到你一定会很高兴；他非常感谢你给了老太婆钱。哈哈！当我离开时，其中一些可以用来修补大厅。

‘I perceive, sir,’ said Pitt with a heightened voice, ‘that your people will cut down the timber.’
“我认为，先生，”皮特提高声音说道，“您的人民会砍伐木材。”

‘Yees, yees, very fine weather, and seasonable for the time of year,’ Sir Pitt answered, who had suddenly grown deaf. ‘But I’m gittin’ old, Pitt, now. Law bless you, you ain’t far from fifty yourself. But he wears well, my pretty Lady Jane, don’t he? It’s all godliness, sobriety, and a moral life. Look at me, I’m not very fur from fowr-score—he, he”; and he laughed, and took snuff, and leered at her and pinched her hand.
“是的，是的，天气非常好，一年中的这个时候也很适宜。”皮特爵士回答道，他突然聋了。 “但我现在已经老了，皮特。”法律保佑你，你自己也离五十岁不远了。但他穿得很好，我漂亮的简女士，不是吗？这都是敬虔、节制和道德的生活。看看我，我对分数不太感兴趣——他，他”；他笑了，吸了一口鼻烟，斜视着她，捏了捏她的手。

Pitt once more brought the conversation back to the timber, but the Baronet was deaf again in an instant.
皮特再次把话题拉回树林，但男爵立刻又聋了。

‘I’m gittin’ very old, and have been cruel bad this year with the lumbago. I shan’t be here now for long; but I’m glad ee’ve come, daughter-in-law. I like your face, Lady Jane: it’s got none of the damned high-boned Binkie look in it; and I’ll give ee something pretty, my dear, to go to Court in.’ And he shuffled across the room to a cupboard, from which he took a little old case containing jewels of some value. ‘Take that,’ said he, ‘my dear; it belonged to my mother, and afterwards to the first Lady Binkie. Pretty pearls—never gave ‘em the ironmonger’s daughter. No, no. Take ‘em and put ‘em up quick,’ said he, thrusting the case into his daughter’s hand, and clapping the door of the cabinet to, as Horrocks entered with a salver and refreshments.
“我已经很老了，今年腰痛得厉害。”我不会在这里呆太久了；但我很高兴你能来，儿媳妇。我喜欢你的脸，简女士：它没有那种该死的高骨架宾基的样子；它看起来就像是一个人的脸。亲爱的，我会给你一些漂亮的东西，让你去法庭。”他拖着脚步穿过房间，来到一个橱柜前，从里面拿出一个小旧盒子，里面装着一些有价值的珠宝。 “拿着这个，”他说，“亲爱的；它属于我的母亲，后来又属于第一任宾基夫人。漂亮的珍珠——从来没有给过铁匠的女儿。不，不。 “把它们拿起来，快点放起来，”他说着，把箱子塞到女儿手里，拍了拍柜门，霍罗克斯端着托盘和点心走了进来。

‘What have you a been and given Pitt’s wife?’ said the individual in ribbons, when Pitt and Lady Jane had taken leave of the old gentleman. It was Miss Horrocks, the butler’s daughter—the cause of the scandal throughout the county—the lady who reigned now almost supreme at Queen’s Crawley.
当皮特和简夫人向老绅士告别时，系着丝带的人问道：“你给皮特的妻子带来了什么？”这是霍罗克斯小姐，管家的女儿——整个县丑闻的根源——这位女士现在几乎在皇后克劳利占据了至高无上的地位。

The rise and progress of those Ribbons had been marked with dismay by the county and family. The Ribbons opened an account at the Mudbury Branch Savings Bank; the Ribbons drove to church, monopolising the pony-chaise, which was for the use of the servants at the Hall. The domestics were dismissed at her pleasure. The Scotch gardener, who still lingered on the premises, taking a pride in his walls and hot-houses, and indeed making a pretty good livelihood by the garden, which he farmed, and of which he sold the produce at Southampton, found the Ribbons eating peaches on a sunshiny morning at the south-wall, and had his ears boxed when he remonstrated about this attack on his property. He and his Scotch wife and his Scotch children, the only respectable inhabitants of Queen’s Crawley, were forced to migrate, with their goods and their chattels, and left the stately comfortable gardens to go to waste, and the flower-beds to run to seed. Poor Lady Crawley’s rose-garden became the dreariest wilderness. Only two or three domestics shuddered in the bleak old servants’ hall. The stables and offices were vacant, and shut up, and half ruined. Sir Pitt lived in private, and boozed nightly with Horrocks, his butler or housesteward (as he now began to be called), and the abandoned Ribbons. The times were very much changed since the period when she drove to Mudbury in the spring-cart and called the small tradesmen ‘Sir.’ It may have been shame, or it may have been dislike of his neighbours, but the old Cynic of Queen’s Crawley hardly issued from his parkgates at all now. He quarrelled with his agents and screwed his tenants by letter. His days were passed in conducting his own correspondence; the lawyers and farm-bailiffs who had to do business with him could not reach him but through the Ribbons, who received them at the door of the housekeeper’s room, which commanded the back entrance by which they were admitted; and so the Baronet’s daily perplexities increased, and his embarrassments multiplied round him.
这些丝带的崛起和进步让县里和家族感到沮丧。丝带夫妇在马德伯里储蓄银行分行开设了账户；丝带夫妇开车去教堂，独占了供大厅仆人使用的小马车。她高兴地解雇了家仆。这位苏格兰园丁仍然徘徊在这片土地上，对他的墙壁和温室感到自豪，并且确实靠他种植的花园过着不错的生计，并在南安普敦出售花园里的产品，他发现了丝带在一个阳光明媚的早晨，他在南墙吃桃子，当他抗议对他财产的袭击时，他的耳朵被打了一记耳光。他和他的苏格兰妻子和苏格兰孩子是皇后克劳利唯一受人尊敬的居民，他们被迫带着他们的货物和动产迁移，留下了庄严舒适的花园荒废了，花坛也变成了种子。 。可怜的克劳利夫人的玫瑰园变成了最荒凉的荒野。荒凉破旧的仆人大厅里，只有两三个仆人瑟瑟发抖。马厩和办公室都空着，关着门，半毁了。皮特爵士过着私人生活，每晚与霍罗克斯、他的管家或管家（现在开始这样称呼他）以及被遗弃的丝带一起喝酒。自从她开着弹簧车前往穆德伯里并称呼小商人为“先生”以来，时代已经发生了很大的变化。这可能是一种耻辱，也可能是对他的邻居的厌恶，但女王的老愤世嫉俗者克劳利现在几乎没有从他的公园大门出来。他与他的经纪人争吵，并通过信件欺骗了他的房客。 他的日子是在自己处理信件中度过的。那些必须与他做生意的律师和农场法警只能通过丝带队联系到他，丝带队在管家的房间门口接待他们，管家控制着他们进入的后门。因此，男爵每天的困惑与日俱增，他的尴尬也与日俱增。

The horror of Pitt Crawley may be imagined, as these reports of his father’s dotage reached the most exemplary and correct of gentlemen. He trembled daily lest he should hear that the Ribbons was proclaimed his second legal mother-in-law. After that first and last visit, his father’s name was never mentioned in Pitt’s polite and genteel establishment. It was the skeleton in his house, and all the family walked by it in terror and silence. The Countess Southdown kept on dropping per coach at the lodge-gate the most exciting tracts, tracts which ought to frighten the hair off your head. Mrs. Bute at the parsonage nightly looked out to see if the sky was red over the elms behind which the Hall stood, and the mansion was on fire. Sir G. Wapshot and Sir H. Fuddlestone, old friends of the house, wouldn’t sit on the bench with Sir Pitt at Quarter Sessions, and cut him dead in the High Street of Southampton, where the reprobate stood offering his dirty old hands to them. Nothing had any effect upon him; he put his hands into his pockets, and burst out laughing, as he scrambled into his carriage and four; he used to burst out laughing at Lady Southdown’s tracts; and he laughed at his sons, and at the world, and at the Ribbons when she was angry, which was not seldom.
皮特·克劳利的恐惧是可以想象的，因为这些关于他父亲年老的报道传到了最模范、最正确的绅士那里。他每天都颤抖着，生怕听到丝带夫妇被宣布为他的第二位合法岳母。在第一次也是最后一次访问之后，皮特礼貌而优雅的机构中再也没有提到过他父亲的名字。那是他家里的骷髅，全家人都惊恐而沉默地走过它。绍斯当伯爵夫人不断地在小屋门口给每节车厢扔下最令人兴奋的小册子，这些小册子应该会吓得你头发都掉下来。牧师住宅的布特夫人每晚都会向外张望，看看大厅后面的榆树上方的天空是否是红色的，宅邸是否着火了。 G.瓦普肖特爵士和H.福德尔斯通爵士，这所房子的老朋友，在季度会议上不肯和皮特爵士坐在长凳上，并在南安普敦的大街上砍死了他，那个恶棍站在那儿伸出肮脏的老手。给他们。没有什么对他产生任何影响；他把手插进口袋，放声大笑，然后四人爬上马车。他常常对绍斯当夫人的小册子大笑起来。当她生气时，他嘲笑他的儿子们，嘲笑这个世界，还有丝带家族，这种情况并不少见。

Miss Horrocks was installed as housekeeper at Queen’s Crawley, and ruled all the domestics there with great majesty and rigour. All the servants were instructed to address her as ‘Mum,’ or ‘Madam’— and there was one little maid, on her promotion, who persisted in calling her ‘My Lady,’ without any rebuke on the part of the housekeeper. ‘There has been better ladies, and there has been worser, Hester,’ was Miss Horrocks’ reply to this compliment of her inferior; so she ruled, having supreme power over all except her father, whom, however, she treated with considerable haughtiness, warning him not to be too familiar in his behaviour to one ‘as was to be a Baronet’s lady.’ Indeed, she rehearsed that exalted part in life with great satisfaction to herself, and to the amusement of old Sir Pitt, who chuckled at her airs and graces, and would laugh by the hour together at her assumptions of dignity and imitations of genteel life. He swore it was as good as a play to see her in the character of a fine dame, and he made her put on one of the first Lady Crawley’s court-dresses, swearing (entirely to Miss Horrocks’ own concurrence) that the dress became her prodigiously, and threatening to drive her off that very instant to Court in a coachand-four. She had the ransacking of the wardrobes of the two defunct ladies, and cut and hacked their posthumous finery so as to suit her own tastes and figure. And she would have liked to take possession of their jewels and trinkets too; but the old Baronet had locked them away in his private cabinet; nor could she coax or wheedle him out of the keys. And it is a fact, that some time after she left Queen’s Crawley a copy-book belonging to this lady was discovered, which showed that she had taken great pains in private to learn the art of writing in general, and especially of writing her own name as Lady Crawley, Lady Betsy Horrocks, Lady Elizabeth Crawley, &c.
霍罗克斯小姐被任命为克劳利女王学院的管家，以威严和严格的态度管理着那里的所有家务。所有的仆人都被要求称呼她为“妈妈”或“女士”——有一个小女仆，在她的晋升中，坚持称她为“我的女士”，管家没有任何责备。 “有更好的女士，也有更糟糕的女士，海丝特，”霍罗克斯小姐对她下属的赞美如此回答。因此，她对所有人拥有至高无上的权力，除了她的父亲，然而，她对待父亲相当傲慢，警告他不要对自己的行为过于熟悉，“就像一位从男爵的女士一样。”事实上，她排练过这一点她在生活中获得了崇高的地位，对自己感到非常满意，也让老皮特爵士感到高兴，他嘲笑她的举止和优雅，并且会一起嘲笑她自以为是的尊严和对上流社会生活的模仿。他发誓看到她扮演一位优秀贵妇的角色就像一场戏剧一样精彩，他让她穿上第一任克劳利夫人的宫廷礼服，并发誓（完全得到霍罗克斯小姐自己的同意）这件衣服成为并威胁要立即开四人马车将她赶到法庭。她搜查了两位已故女士的衣柜，并剪裁了她们身后的华丽服饰，以适应她自己的品味和身材。她也想拥有他们的珠宝和小饰品；但老男爵把它们锁在他的私人柜子里了。她也无法哄骗或哄骗他离开钥匙。 事实上，在她离开克劳利女王学院一段时间后，人们发现了一本属于这位女士的习字簿，这表明她私下里煞费苦心地学习一般的写作艺术，尤其是自己的写作艺术。名称为克劳利夫人、贝齐·霍洛克斯夫人、伊丽莎白·克劳利夫人等。

Though the good people of the Parsonage never went to the Hall and shunned the horrid old dotard its owner, yet they kept a strict knowledge of all that happened there, and were looking out every day for the catastrophe for which Miss Horrocks was also eager. But Fate intervened enviously and prevented her from receiving the reward due to such immaculate love and virtue.
虽然牧师住宅里的好心人从来没有去过大厅，也避开了主人那个可怕的老糊涂，但他们对那里发生的一切都了如指掌，每天都在提防霍罗克斯小姐也渴望发生的灾难。但命运却嫉妒地介入，阻止她获得如此完美的爱情和美德的回报。

One day the Baronet surprised ‘her ladyship,’ as he jocularly called her, seated at that old and tuneless piano in the drawing-room, which had scarcely been touched since Becky Sharp played quadrilles upon it—seated at the piano with the utmost gravity and squalling to the best of her power in imitation of the music which she had sometimes heard. The little kitchen-maid on her promotion was standing at her mistress’s side, quite delighted during the operation, and wagging her head up and down and crying, ‘Lor, Mum, ‘tis bittiful’—just like a genteel sycophant in a real drawingroom.
有一天，准男爵坐在客厅里那架古老、不调调的钢琴前，让“夫人”大吃一惊，自从贝基·夏普在这架钢琴上演奏四边形以来，这架钢琴就几乎没有被碰过——他全神贯注地坐在钢琴前。并模仿她有时听到的音乐，竭尽全力地尖叫。升职的小厨房女仆站在女主人身边，在手术过程中非常高兴，她上下摇着头哭着，“天啊，妈妈，这太小了”——就像真正的客厅里的一个优雅的阿谀奉承者一样。 。

This incident made the old Baronet roar with laughter, as usual. He narrated the circumstance a dozen times to Horrocks in the course of the evening, and greatly to the discomfiture of Miss Horrocks. He thrummed on the table as if it had been a musical instrument, and squalled in imitation of her manner of singing. He vowed that such a beautiful voice ought to be cultivated and declared she ought to have singing-masters, in which proposals she saw nothing ridiculous. He was in great spirits that night, and drank with his friend and butler an extraordinary quantity of rum-and-water—at a very late hour the faithful friend and domestic conducted his master to his bedroom.
这件事让老男爵像往常一样哈哈大笑。整个晚上，他向霍罗克斯小姐讲述了十几遍这件事，这让霍罗克斯小姐非常沮丧。他像敲击乐器一样敲击桌子，模仿她的歌声大声叫喊。他发誓要培养这样美丽的声音，并宣称她应该有歌唱大师，她认为这些建议没有什么可笑的。那天晚上他兴高采烈，和他的朋友兼管家一起喝了超多的朗姆酒和水——在很晚的时候，忠实的朋友和仆人把他的主人带到了他的卧室。

Half an hour afterwards there was a great hurry and bustle in the house. Lights went about from window to window in the lonely desolate old Hall, whereof but two or three rooms were ordinarily occupied by its owner. Presently, a boy on a pony went galloping off to Mudbury, to the Doctor’s house there. And in another hour (by which fact we ascertain how carefully the excellent Mrs. Bute Crawley had always kept up an understanding with the great house), that lady in her clogs and calash, the Reverend Bute Crawley, and James Crawley, her son, had walked over from the Rectory through the park, and had entered the mansion by the open hall-door.
半个小时后，屋子里一片忙碌。孤寂荒凉的老大厅里，灯光从一扇窗照到另一扇窗，平时只有两三个房间是主人住着的。不久，一个骑着小马的男孩向马德伯里疾驰，前往那里的医生家。又过了一个小时（通过这一事实，我们可以确定出色的布特·克劳利夫人始终与这座大房子保持着谅解），那位穿着木屐和卡拉什的女士，布特·克劳利牧师和她的儿子詹姆斯·克劳利，从教区长官邸穿过公园，从敞开的大厅门进入宅邸。

They passed through the hall and the small oak parlour, on the table of which stood the three tumblers and the empty rum-bottle which had served for Sir Pitt’s carouse, and through that apartment into Sir Pitt’s study, where they found Miss Horrocks, of the guilty ribbons, with a wild air, trying at the presses and escritoires with a bunch of keys. She dropped them with a scream of terror, as little Mrs. Bute’s eyes flashed out at her from under her black calash.
他们穿过大厅和小橡木客厅，客厅的桌子上放着三个玻璃杯和一个空朗姆酒瓶，这是皮特爵士狂欢节用的，穿过那间公寓进入皮特爵士的书房，在那里他们找到了霍罗克斯小姐，罪孽深重的丝带带着狂野的气息，试图用一串钥匙敲打印刷机和写字台。她惊恐地尖叫着把它们扔掉，小布特太太的眼睛从她的黑色马车下面闪闪发光地看着她。

‘Look at that, James and Mr. Crawley,’ cried Mrs. Bute, pointing at the scared figure of the black-eyed, guilty wench.
“看那个，詹姆斯和克劳利先生，”布特太太喊道，指着那个黑眼睛、内疚的姑娘的惊恐身影。

‘He gave ‘em me; he gave ‘em me!’ she cried.
‘他把它们给了我； “他把它们给了我！”她喊道。

‘Gave them you, you abandoned creature!’ screamed Mrs. Bute. ‘Bear witness, Mr. Crawley, we found this good-for-nothing woman in the act of stealing your brother’s property; and she will be hanged, as I always said she would.’
“把你给他们了，你这个被遗弃的生物！”布特夫人尖叫道。 “请作证，克劳利先生，我们发现这个无用的女人正在偷窃你兄弟的财产；她将被绞死，就像我一直说的那样。”

Betsy Horrocks, quite daunted, flung herself down on her knees, bursting into tears. But those who know a really good woman are aware that she is not in a hurry to forgive, and that the humiliation of an enemy is a triumph to her soul.
贝特西·霍罗克斯（Betsy Horrocks）非常害怕，跪倒在地，泪流满面。但认识真正好女人的人都知道，她并不急于宽恕，敌人的羞辱对她的灵魂来说是一种胜利。

‘Ring the bell, James,’ Mrs. Bute said. ‘Go on ringing it till the people come.’ The three or four domestics resident in the deserted old house came presently at that jangling and continued summons.
“按响门铃，詹姆斯，”布特夫人说。 “继续按，直到人来。” 废弃老屋里的三四个佣人听到叮叮声，很快就过来了，继续召唤。

‘Put that woman in the strong-room,’ she said. ‘We caught her in the act of robbing Sir Pitt. Mr. Crawley, you’ll make out her committal—and, Beddoes, you’ll drive her over in the spring cart, in the morning, to Southampton Gaol.’
“把那个女人放进保险库里，”她说。 “我们在她抢劫皮特爵士的行为中抓住了她。克劳利先生，你会确认她的拘押情况——贝多斯，你会在早上用春车送她去南安普敦监狱。

‘My dear,’ interposed the Magistrate and Rector—‘she’s only—‘
“亲爱的，”法官和校长插话道——“她只是——”

‘Are there no handcuffs?’ Mrs. Bute continued, stamping in her clogs. ‘There used to be handcuffs. Where’s the creature’s abominable father?’
“没有手铐吗？”布特夫人跺着木屐继续说道。 “以前有手铐。这个生物可恶的父亲在哪里？

‘He DID give ‘em me,’ still cried poor Betsy; ‘didn’t he, Hester? You saw Sir Pitt—you know you did—give ‘em me, ever so long ago— the day after Mudbury fair: not that I want ‘em. Take ‘em if you think they ain’t mine.’ And here the unhappy wretch pulled out from her pocket a large pair of paste shoe-buckles which had excited her admiration, and which she had just appropriated out of one of the bookcases in the study, where they had lain.
“他确实把它们给了我，”可怜的贝特西仍然喊道。 “不是吗，海丝特？你见过皮特爵士——你知道你见过——把它们给了我，很久以前——穆德伯里集市后的第二天：不是我想要它们。如果你认为它们不是我的，就拿走吧。”这时，这个不幸的可怜虫从口袋里掏出一双大鞋扣，这让她钦佩不已，这是她刚刚从书柜里拿出来的。书房，他们躺过的地方。

‘Law, Betsy, how could you go for to tell such a wicked story!’ said Hester, the little kitchen-maid late on her promotion—‘and to Madame Crawley, so good and kind, and his Rev’rince (with a curtsey), and you may search all MY boxes, Mum, I’m sure, and here’s my keys as I’m an honest girl, though of pore parents and workhouse bred—and if you find so much as a beggarly bit of lace or a silk stocking out of all the gownds as YOU’VE had the picking of, may I never go to church agin.’
“法律，贝特西，你怎么能去讲这样一个邪恶的故事！”晋升不久的小厨房女仆海丝特说，“还有克劳利夫人，那么善良，还有他的牧师（带着一个屈膝礼），你可以搜查我所有的盒子，妈妈，我敢肯定，这是我的钥匙，因为我是一个诚实的女孩，尽管父母是贫穷的，在济贫院长大的——如果你发现了哪怕一点点可怜的花边或者从你挑选的所有长袍中挑选出丝袜，愿我再也不会去教堂了。

‘Give up your keys, you hardened hussy,’ hissed out the virtuous little lady in the calash.
“把你的钥匙交出来，你这个铁石心肠的女人，”篷车里那位善良的小女士嘶嘶地说。

‘And here’s a candle, Mum, and if you please, Mum, I can show you her room, Mum, and the press in the housekeeper’s room, Mum, where she keeps heaps and heaps of things, Mum,’ cried out the eager little Hester with a profusion of curtseys.
“这是一支蜡烛，妈妈，如果您愿意，妈妈，我可以带您参观她的房间，妈妈，还有管家房间里的印刷机，妈妈，她在那里存放着成堆的东西，妈妈，”急切的人喊道。小海丝特不断行屈膝礼。

‘Hold your tongue, if you please. I know the room which the creature occupies perfectly well. Mrs. Brown, have the goodness to come with me, and Beddoes don’t you lose sight of that woman,’ said Mrs. Bute, seizing the candle. ‘Mr. Crawley, you had better go upstairs and see that they are not murdering your unfortunate brother’—and the calash, escorted by Mrs. Brown, walked away to the apartment which, as she said truly, she knew perfectly well.
‘如果你愿意的话，请闭嘴。我非常清楚这个生物所在的房间。布朗夫人，请您跟我一起去，贝多斯，您可别忘了那个女人。”布特夫人说着，抓住了蜡烛。 '先生。克劳利，你最好上楼去看看，他们没有谋杀你不幸的兄弟。”然后，马车在布朗夫人的护送下，朝公寓走去，正如她所说，她非常熟悉那间公寓。

Bute went upstairs and found the Doctor from Mudbury, with the frightened Horrocks over his master in a chair. They were trying to bleed Sir Pitt Crawley.
布特上楼，找到了来自马德伯里的医生，受惊的霍罗克斯坐在椅子上，坐在他的主人身边。他们试图让皮特·克劳利爵士流血。

With the early morning an express was sent off to Mr. Pitt Crawley by the Rector’s lady, who assumed the command of everything, and had watched the old Baronet through the night. He had been brought back to a sort of life; he could not speak, but seemed to recognize people. Mrs. Bute kept resolutely by his bedside. She never seemed to want to sleep, that little woman, and did not close her fiery black eyes once, though the Doctor snored in the arm-chair. Horrocks made some wild efforts to assert his authority and assist his master; but Mrs. Bute called him a tipsy old wretch and bade him never show his face again in that house, or he should be transported like his abominable daughter.
一大清早，教区长夫人就给皮特·克劳利先生派了一辆快车，她负责一切事务，并整夜监视着老男爵。他已经恢复了某种生活；他不能说话，但似乎认得人。布特夫人坚定地守在他的床边。那个小女人，她似乎从来不想睡觉，尽管医生在扶手椅上打鼾，她一次也没有闭上她那双火热的黑眼睛。霍罗克斯做出了一些疯狂的努力来维护他的权威并协助他的主人。但布特夫人称他是一个喝醉了的老坏蛋，并吩咐他永远不要再在那所房子里露面，否则他应该像他那可恶的女儿一样被带走。

Terrified by her manner, he slunk down to the oak parlour where Mr. James was, who, having tried the bottle standing there and found no liquor in it, ordered Mr. Horrocks to get another bottle of rum, which he fetched, with clean glasses, and to which the Rector and his son sat down, ordering Horrocks to put down the keys at that instant and never to show his face again.
他被她的举止吓坏了，偷偷溜到詹姆斯先生所在的橡木客厅，詹姆斯先生尝试了放在那里的瓶子，发现里面没有酒，于是命令霍罗克斯先生再拿一瓶朗姆酒，他拿了一杯干净的朗姆酒。教区长和他的儿子坐下来，命令霍罗克斯立即放下钥匙，永远不要再露面。

Cowed by this behaviour, Horrocks gave up the keys, and he and his daughter slunk off silently through the night and gave up possession of the house of Queen’s Crawley.
霍罗克斯被这种行为吓倒了，交出了钥匙，他和女儿连夜悄悄溜走，放弃了克劳利皇后别墅的所有权。

Chapter XL
第二十章


In Which Becky Is Recognized by the Family
贝基被家人认出

The heir of Crawley arrived at home, in due time, after this catastrophe, and henceforth may be said to have reigned in Queen’s Crawley. For though the old Baronet survived many months, he never recovered the use of his intellect or his speech completely, and the government of the estate devolved upon his elder son. In a strange condition Pitt found it. Sir Pitt was always buying and mortgaging; he had twenty men of business, and quarrels with each; quarrels with all his tenants, and lawsuits with them; lawsuits with the lawyers; lawsuits with the Mining and Dock Companies in which he was proprietor; and with every person with whom he had business. To unravel these difficulties and to set the estate clear was a task worthy of the orderly and persevering diplomatist of Pumpernickel, and he set himself to work with prodigious assiduity. His whole family, of course, was transported to Queen’s Crawley, whither Lady Southdown, of course, came too; and she set about converting the parish under the Rector’s nose, and brought down her irregular clergy to the dismay of the angry Mrs Bute. Sir Pitt had concluded no bargain for the sale of the living of Queen’s Crawley; when it should drop, her Ladyship proposed to take the patronage into her own hands and present a young protege to the Rectory, on which subject the diplomatic Pitt said nothing.
克劳利的继承人在这场灾难之后适时回到家乡，从此可以说是在女王克劳利进行统治。尽管老男爵活了好几个月，但他从未完全恢复他的智力或言语能力，庄园的管理权移交给了他的大儿子。皮特在一种奇怪的情况下发现了它。皮特爵士总是在购买和抵押。他有二十个商人，每个人都互相争吵。与他所有的佃户发生争吵，并与他们打官司；与律师提起诉讼；与他所拥有的采矿和码头公司提起诉讼；以及与他有业务往来的每个人。解决这些困难并清理遗产是一项值得这位井然有序、坚持不懈的裸麦尼克外交家完成的任务，他以惊人的勤奋投入到工作中。当然，他的全家都被送到了皇后克劳利，当然，索斯唐夫人也去了那里。她在教区长的眼皮子底下着手改造教区，并打倒了不正规的神职人员，这让愤怒的布特夫人感到沮丧。皮特爵士没有就出售皇后克劳利的生活达成任何协议。当它应该下降时，夫人提议将赞助权掌握在自己手中，并向教区长推荐一名年轻的门生，而外交官皮特对此只字未提。

Mrs. Bute’s intentions with regard to Miss Betsy Horrocks were not carried into effect, and she paid no visit to Southampton Gaol. She and her father left the Hall when the latter took possession of the Crawley Arms in the village, of which he had got a lease from Sir Pitt. The ex-butler had obtained a small freehold there likewise, which gave him a vote for the borough. The Rector had another of these votes, and these and four others formed the representative body which returned the two members for Queen’s Crawley.
布特夫人对贝特西·霍罗克斯小姐的意图没有实现，她也没有访问南安普敦监狱。当她的父亲拥有村里的克劳利武器店时，她和她的父亲离开了大厅，他从皮特爵士那里得到了租约。这位前管家同样在那里获得了一小块永久业权，这使他在该行政区拥有投票权。校长还有另一张选票，这些选票和其他四张选票组成了代表机构，选出了女王克劳利学院的两名成员。

There was a show of courtesy kept up between the Rectory and the Hall ladies, between the younger ones at least, for Mrs. Bute and Lady Southdown never could meet without battles, and gradually ceased seeing each other. Her Ladyship kept her room when the ladies from the Rectory visited their cousins at the Hall. Perhaps Mr. Pitt was not very much displeased at these occasional absences of his mamma-in-law. He believed the Binkie family to be the greatest and wisest and most interesting in the world, and her Ladyship and his aunt had long held ascendency over him; but sometimes he felt that she commanded him too much. To be considered young was complimentary, doubtless, but at six-and-forty to be treated as a boy was sometimes mortifying. Lady Jane yielded up everything, however, to her mother. She was only fond of her children in private, and it was lucky for her that Lady Southdown’s multifarious business, her conferences with ministers, and her correspondence with all the missionaries of Africa, Asia, and Australasia, &c., occupied the venerable Countess a great deal, so that she had but little time to devote to her granddaughter, the little Matilda, and her grandson, Master Pitt Crawley. The latter was a feeble child, and it was only by prodigious quantities of calomel that Lady Southdown was able to keep him in life at all.
教区长和大厅的女士们之间，至少在年轻的女士们之间，一直保持着礼貌，因为布特夫人和绍斯唐夫人每次见面都会发生争吵，并且逐渐不再见面。当教区长的女士们到大厅拜访她们的表姐妹时，夫人保留了她的房间。也许皮特先生对于他岳母偶尔的缺席并不是很不高兴。他相信宾基家族是世界上最伟大、最聪明、最有趣的家族，而她的夫人和他的姨妈长期以来一直对他享有优势。但有时他又觉得她对他命令太多了。毫无疑问，被认为年轻是值得称赞的，但在六岁和四十岁的时候被视为男孩有时会令人感到羞愧。然而，简夫人却把一切都交给了她的母亲。她只在私下里喜欢她的孩子们，对她来说幸运的是，索斯当夫人的繁杂事务，她与部长们的会议，以及她与非洲、亚洲和澳大利亚等地所有传教士的通信，占据了可敬的伯爵夫人的心。如此一来，她几乎没有时间照顾她的孙女小玛蒂尔达和她的孙子皮特·克劳利少爷。后者是一个虚弱的孩子，只有使用大量的甘汞，绍斯当夫人才得以维持他的生命。

As for Sir Pitt he retired into those very apartments where Lady Crawley had been previously extinguished, and here was tended by Miss Hester, the girl upon her promotion, with constant care and assiduity. What love, what fidelity, what constancy is there equal to that of a nurse with good wages? They smooth pillows; and make arrowroot; they get up at nights; they bear complaints and querulousness; they see the sun shining out of doors and don’t want to go abroad; they sleep on arm-chairs and eat their meals in solitude; they pass long long evenings doing nothing, watching the embers, and the patient’s drink simmering in the jug; they read the weekly paper the whole week through; and Law’s Serious Call or the Whole Duty of Man suffices them for literature for the year—and we quarrel with them because, when their relations come to see them once a week, a little gin is smuggled in in their linen basket. Ladies, what man’s love is there that would stand a year’s nursing of the object of his affection? Whereas a nurse will stand by you for ten pounds a quarter, and we think her too highly paid. At least Mr. Crawley grumbled a good deal about paying half as much to Miss Hester for her constant attendance upon the Baronet his father.
至于皮特爵士，他隐退到了克劳利夫人先前灭亡的那套公寓里，这里由赫斯特小姐（即将升职的女孩）不断地照顾和辛勤地照料。怎样的爱、怎样的忠诚、怎样的恒心才能与一个拿着高薪的护士相媲美呢？他们抚平枕头；并制作葛根；他们晚上起床；他们有抱怨和牢骚；他们看到外面阳光明媚，不想出国；他们睡在扶手椅上，独自吃饭。他们度过了漫漫长夜，无所事事，看着余烬，看着病人的饮料在壶里煮着。他们整周都在读周报​​；劳的《严肃的呼唤》或《人类的全部责任》足以满足他们一年的文学需求——我们与他们争吵是因为，当他们的亲戚每周来看望他们一次时，他们的亚麻篮子里会偷偷带一点杜松子酒。女士们，哪个男人的爱情能够经受住他所爱的对象一年的护理呢？而护士每季度支付十英镑的费用就可以为您服务，我们认为她的薪水太高了。至少克劳利先生对海丝特小姐经常侍候他父亲的从男爵而付给她一半的钱颇有怨言。

Of sunshiny days this old gentleman was taken out in a chair on the terrace—the very chair which Miss Crawley had had at Brighton, and which had been transported thence with a number of Lady Southdown’s effects to Queen’s Crawley. Lady Jane always walked by the old man, and was an evident favourite with him. He used to nod many times to her and smile when she came in, and utter inarticulate deprecatory moans when she was going away. When the door shut upon her he would cry and sob—whereupon Hester’s face and manner, which was always exceedingly bland and gentle while her lady was present, would change at once, and she would make faces at him and clench her fist and scream out ‘Hold your tongue, you stoopid old fool,’ and twirl away his chair from the fire which he loved to look at—at which he would cry more. For this was all that was left after more than seventy years of cunning, and struggling, and drinking, and scheming, and sin and selfishness—a whimpering old idiot put in and out of bed and cleaned and fed like a baby.
阳光明媚的日子里，这位老绅士被带到露台上的一把椅子上——这正是克劳利小姐在布莱顿的那把椅子，它是从那里和许多绍斯当夫人的物品一起运到皇后克劳利的。简女士总是从老人身边走过，显然很受他的喜爱。当她进来时，他常常向她点头微笑，当她离开时，他会发出含糊不清的蔑视呻吟。当门关上时，他会哭泣，抽泣——于是，当她的女士在场时，海丝特的脸庞和举止总是极其温和和温柔，她会立即改变，她会对他做鬼脸，握紧拳头，尖叫起来。 “闭嘴，你这个愚蠢的老傻瓜，”然后把他的椅子从火边转开，他喜欢看火——看到火他会哭得更厉害。因为这就是经过七十多年的狡猾、挣扎、酗酒、阴谋、罪恶和自私之后所剩下的一切——一个呜咽的老白痴被像婴儿一样被上下床、清洗和喂养。

At last a day came when the nurse’s occupation was over. Early one morning, as Pitt Crawley was at his steward’s and bailiff’s books in the study, a knock came to the door, and Hester presented herself, dropping a curtsey, and said,
护士的工作终于结束了。一天清晨，皮特·克劳利正在书房里查阅管家和法警的书籍时，有人敲门，海丝特出现了，行了个屈膝礼，说道：

‘If you please, Sir Pitt, Sir Pitt died this morning, Sir Pitt. I was a-making of his toast, Sir Pitt, for his gruel, Sir Pitt, which he took every morning regular at six, Sir Pitt, and—I thought I heard a moan-like, Sir Pitt—and—and—and—‘ She dropped another curtsey.
“如果您愿意的话，皮特爵士，皮特爵士今天早上去世了，皮特爵士。我正在为他的吐司，皮特爵士，为他的稀粥，皮特爵士，他每天早上六点固定吃，皮特爵士，而且——我想我听到了一声呻吟般的声音，皮特爵士——还有——还有——还有——”她又行了一个屈膝礼。

What was it that made Pitt’s pale face flush quite red? Was it because he was Sir Pitt at last, with a seat in Parliament, and perhaps future honours in prospect? ‘I’ll clear the estate now with the ready money,’ he thought and rapidly calculated its incumbrances and the improvements which he would make. He would not use his aunt’s money previously lest Sir Pitt should recover and his outlay be in vain.
是什么让皮特苍白的脸变得通红？是因为他终于成为了皮特爵士，在议会中占有一席之地，也许未来还会获得荣誉吗？ “我现在就用现成的钱清理庄园。”他想道，并迅速计算出庄园的负担和他将要做的改进。以前他不会用姨妈的钱，以免皮特爵士康复后，他的花销就白费了。

All the blinds were pulled down at the Hall and Rectory: the church bell was tolled, and the chancel hung in black; and Bute Crawley didn’t go to a coursing meeting, but went and dined quietly at Fuddleston, where they talked about his deceased brother and young Sir Pitt over their port. Miss Betsy, who was by this time married to a saddler at Mudbury, cried a good deal. The family surgeon rode over and paid his respectful compliments, and inquiries for the health of their ladyships. The death was talked about at Mudbury and at the Crawley Arms, the landlord whereof had become reconciled with the Rector of late, who was occasionally known to step into the parlour and taste Mr. Horrocks’ mild beer.
大厅和教区长官邸的所有百叶窗都被拉了下来：教堂的钟声响起，圣坛悬挂着黑色；布特·克劳利没有去参加聚会，而是去富德尔斯顿安静地吃饭，在那里他们在港口谈论他已故的兄弟和年轻的皮特爵士。贝特西小姐当时已经嫁给了马德伯里的一个马具商，她哭了很多次。家庭外科医生骑马过来，致以恭敬的问候，并询问女士们的健康状况。马德伯里和克劳利阿姆斯酒店都在谈论这起死亡事件，房东最近与校长和解了，据说校长偶尔会走进客厅，品尝霍罗克斯先生的淡啤酒。

‘Shall I write to your brother—or will you?’ asked Lady Jane of her husband, Sir Pitt.
“我应该写信给你哥哥吗？还是你写信？”简女士问她的丈夫皮特爵士。

‘I will write, of course,’ Sir Pitt said, ‘and invite him to the funeral: it will be but becoming.’
“当然，我会写信，”皮特爵士说，“并邀请他参加葬礼：这将是理所应当的。”

‘And—and—Mrs. Rawdon,’ said Lady Jane timidly.
‘还有——还有——夫人。罗登，”简夫人胆怯地说。

‘Jane!’ said Lady Southdown, ‘how can you think of such a thing?’
“简！”绍斯唐夫人说，“你怎么能想到这样的事？”

‘Mrs. Rawdon must of course be asked,’ said Sir Pitt, resolutely.
'太太。当然必须请罗登。”皮特爵士坚决地说。

‘Not whilst I am in the house!’ said Lady Southdown.
“我在家里的时候不会！”绍斯唐夫人说。

‘Your Ladyship will be pleased to recollect that I am the head of this family,’ Sir Pitt replied. ‘If you please, Lady Jane, you will write a letter to Mrs. Rawdon Crawley, requesting her presence upon this melancholy occasion.’
皮特爵士回答说：“夫人您会很高兴记得我是这个家庭的一家之主。” “简女士，如果您愿意的话，您可以给罗登·克劳利夫人写一封信，请她在这个悲伤的时刻到场。”

‘Jane, I forbid you to put pen to paper!’ cried the Countess.
“简，我禁止你动笔！”伯爵夫人喊道。

‘I believe I am the head of this family,’ Sir Pitt repeated; ‘and however much I may regret any circumstance which may lead to your Ladyship quitting this house, must, if you please, continue to govern it as I see fit.’
“我相信我是这个家庭的一家之主，”皮特爵士重复道。 “无论我对任何可能导致夫人离开这座房子的情况感到多么遗憾，如果您愿意，我都必须继续按照我认为合适的方式管理它。”

Lady Southdown rose up as magnificent as Mrs. Siddons in Lady Macbeth and ordered that horses might be put to her carriage. If her son and daughter turned her out of their house, she would hide her sorrows somewhere in loneliness and pray for their conversion to better thoughts.
索斯唐夫人起身，像《麦克白夫人》中的西登斯夫人一样威风凛凛，下令把马匹放到她的马车上。如果她的儿子和女儿将她赶出家门，她会将悲伤隐藏在孤独的某个地方，并祈祷他们转变为更好的想法。

‘We don’t turn you out of our house, Mamma,’ said the timid Lady Jane imploringly.
“我们不会把你赶出我们的房子，妈妈，”胆怯的简夫人恳求地说。

‘You invite such company to it as no Christian lady should meet, and I will have my horses to-morrow morning.’
“你邀请这样的人来参加，这是基督徒女士不应该见到的，明天早上我就会有我的马。”

‘Have the goodness to write, Jane, under my dictation,’ said Sir Pitt, rising and throwing himself into an attitude of command, like the portrait of a Gentleman in the Exhibition, ‘and begin. ‘Queen’s Crawley, September 14, 1822.—My dear brother—‘’
“简，请按照我的口授来写，”皮特爵士站起来，摆出一副命令的姿态，就像展览会上一位绅士的肖像一样，“开始吧。” “女王克劳利，1822 年 9 月 14 日。——我亲爱的兄弟——”

Hearing these decisive and terrible words, Lady Macbeth, who had been waiting for a sign of weakness or vacillation on the part of her son-in-law, rose and, with a scared look, left the library. Lady Jane looked up to her husband as if she would fain follow and soothe her mamma, but Pitt forbade his wife to move.
听到这些果断而可怕的话语，一直在等待女婿表现出软弱或犹豫的麦克白夫人站了起来，一脸惊恐地离开了图书馆。简夫人抬头看着她的丈夫，仿佛她很乐意跟随并安抚她的妈妈，但皮特禁止他的妻子移动。

‘She won’t go away,’ he said. ‘She has let her house at Brighton and has spent her last half-year’s dividends. A Countess living at an inn is a ruined woman. I have been waiting long for an opportunity—to take this—this decisive step, my love; for, as you must perceive, it is impossible that there should be two chiefs in a family: and now, if you please, we will resume the dictation. ‘My dear brother, the melancholy intelligence which it is my duty to convey to my family must have been long anticipated by,’’ &c.
“她不会离开，”他说。 “她已经把布莱顿的房子出租了，并花掉了最后半年的股息。住在旅馆里的伯爵夫人是一个破产的女人。我一直在等待一个机会——迈出这决定性的一步，亲爱的；因为，正如你必须意识到的，一个家庭不可能有两个首领：现在，如果你愿意的话，我们将继续听写。 “我亲爱的兄弟，我有责任向我的家人传达忧郁的智慧，这一定是人们早就期待的，”等等。

In a word, Pitt having come to his kingdom, and having by good luck, or desert rather, as he considered, assumed almost all the fortune which his other relatives had expected, was determined to treat his family kindly and respectably and make a house of Queen’s Crawley once more. It pleased him to think that he should be its chief. He proposed to use the vast influence that his commanding talents and position must speedily acquire for him in the county to get his brother placed and his cousins decently provided for, and perhaps had a little sting of repentance as he thought that he was the proprietor of all that they had hoped for. In the course of three or four days’ reign his bearing was changed and his plans quite fixed: he determined to rule justly and honestly, to depose Lady Southdown, and to be on the friendliest possible terms with all the relations of his blood.
总而言之，皮特来到了他的王国，并且由于运气好，或者更确切地说，正如他所认为的，他几乎获得了其他亲戚所期望的所有财富，他决心善待他的家人，尊重他的家人，并建造一座房子再次来到女王克劳利。他很高兴认为自己应该成为它的首领。他提议利用他的指挥才能和地位在县里迅速获得的巨大影响力，让他的兄弟安顿下来，让他的堂兄弟们得到体面的供养，也许他有一点悔恨，因为他认为自己是这家公司的所有者。他们所希望的一切。在三四天的统治过程中，他的态度发生了变化，他的计划也相当固定：他决心公正和诚实地统治，废黜绍斯唐夫人，并与他的所有血亲保持尽可能友好的关系。

So he dictated a letter to his brother Rawdon—a solemn and elaborate letter, containing the profoundest observations, couched in the longest words, and filling with wonder the simple little secretary, who wrote under her husband’s order. ‘What an orator this will be,’ thought she, ‘when he enters the House of Commons’ (on which point, and on the tyranny of Lady Southdown, Pitt had sometimes dropped hints to his wife in bed); ‘how wise and good, and what a genius my husband is! I fancied him a little cold; but how good, and what a genius!’
于是，他口授了一封信给他的兄弟罗登——一封庄严而详尽的信，包含了最深刻的观察，用最长的话语表达出来，让这位单纯的小秘书在丈夫的命令下写下的信充满了惊奇。 “当他进入下议院时，”她想，“这将是一位多么出色的演说家啊”（在这一点上，以及关于索斯唐夫人的暴政，皮特有时会在床上向他的妻子暗示）； ‘我的丈夫多么聪明、多么善良，多么天才啊！我觉得他有点冷淡；但多么好啊，多么天才啊！

The fact is, Pitt Crawley had got every word of the letter by heart and had studied it, with diplomatic secrecy, deeply and perfectly, long before he thought fit to communicate it to his astonished wife.
事实上，皮特·克劳利早在他认为适合将信传达给惊讶的妻子之前，就已经熟记了这封信的每一个字，并以外交保密的方式深入而完美地研究了它。

This letter, with a huge black border and seal, was accordingly despatched by Sir Pitt Crawley to his brother the Colonel, in London. Rawdon Crawley was but half-pleased at the receipt of it. ‘What’s the use of going down to that stupid place?’ thought he. ‘I can’t stand being alone with Pitt after dinner, and horses there and back will cost us twenty pound.’
这封带有巨大黑色边框和印章的信是由皮特·克劳利爵士寄给他在伦敦的兄弟上校的。罗登·克劳利收到这封信后感到有点不高兴。 “到那个愚蠢的地方去有什么用呢？”他想。 “我无法忍受晚饭后单独和皮特在一起，往返的马匹要花掉我们二十英镑。”

He carried the letter, as he did all difficulties, to Becky, upstairs in her bedroom—with her chocolate, which he always made and took to her of a morning.
他像对待所有困难一样，把这封信带到了楼上贝基的卧室里，里面还夹着她的巧克力，这是他早上总是做的并带给她的。

He put the tray with the breakfast and the letter on the dressingtable, before which Becky sat combing her yellow hair. She took up the black-edged missive, and having read it, she jumped up from the chair, crying ‘Hurray!’ and waving the note round her head.
他把盛着早餐和信的托盘放在梳妆台上，贝基坐在梳妆台前梳理着她的黄头发。她拿起那封黑边的信，读完后，从椅子上跳起来，喊着“万岁！”，并在头上挥舞着纸条。

‘Hurray?’ said Rawdon, wondering at the little figure capering about in a streaming flannel dressing-gown, with tawny locks dishevelled. ‘He’s not left us anything, Becky. I had my share when I came of age.’
“万岁？”罗登说，他惊讶地看着那个身穿飘逸法兰绒晨衣、黄褐色头发蓬乱的小身影。 “他没有给我们留下任何东西，贝基。当我成年后，我就有了自己的一份。

‘You’ll never be of age, you silly old man,’ Becky replied. ‘Run out now to Madam Brunoy’s, for I must have some mourning: and get a crape on your hat, and a black waistcoat—I don’t think you’ve got one; order it to be brought home to-morrow, so that we may be able to start on Thursday.’
“你永远不会成年，你这个愚蠢的老人，”贝基回答道。 “现在跑到布鲁诺伊夫人家去，因为我必须哀悼一下：在你的帽子上戴上一条黑纱，穿一件黑色背心——我想你没有；命令明天把它带回家，这样我们就可以在周四开始。”

‘You don’t mean to go?’ Rawdon interposed.
“你不想走吗？”罗登插话道。

‘Of course I mean to go. I mean that Lady Jane shall present me at Court next year. I mean that your brother shall give you a seat in Parliament, you stupid old creature. I mean that Lord Steyne shall have your vote and his, my dear, old silly man; and that you shall be an Irish Secretary, or a West Indian Governor: or a Treasurer, or a Consul, or some such thing.’
‘我当然想去。我的意思是简夫人明年将把我带到宫廷。我的意思是你的兄弟应该给你一个议会席位，你这个愚蠢的老家伙。我的意思是，斯泰因勋爵将得到你的投票，还有他的，亲爱的，老傻瓜；你将担任爱尔兰秘书，或西印度群岛总督：或财务主管，或领事，或类似的职位。

‘Posting will cost a dooce of a lot of money,’ grumbled Rawdon.
“发帖要花很多钱，”罗登抱怨道。

‘We might take Southdown’s carriage, which ought to be present at the funeral, as he is a relation of the family: but, no—I intend that we shall go by the coach. They’ll like it better. It seems more humble—‘
“我们可以乘坐绍斯当的马车，他应该出席葬礼，因为他是我们家的亲戚：但是，不——我打算我们乘马车去。他们会更喜欢它。看起来更谦虚了——’

‘Rawdy goes, of course?’ the Colonel asked.
“罗迪当然要去吗？”上校问道。

‘No such thing; why pay an extra place? He’s too big to travel bodkin between you and me. Let him stay here in the nursery, and Briggs can make him a black frock. Go you, and do as I bid you. And you had best tell Sparks, your man, that old Sir Pitt is dead and that you will come in for something considerable when the affairs are arranged. He’ll tell this to Raggles, who has been pressing for money, and it will console poor Raggles.’ And so Becky began sipping her chocolate.
'没有这样的事;为什么要额外付费？他太大了，无法在你我之间移动。让他留在托儿所里，布里格斯可以给他做一件黑色连衣裙。去吧，照我吩咐的去做。你最好告诉斯帕克斯，你的人，老皮特爵士已经死了，当事务安排好后，你会得到一些重大的东西。他会把这件事告诉一直急需钱的拉格斯，这会安慰可怜的拉格斯。于是贝基开始喝巧克力。

When the faithful Lord Steyne arrived in the evening, he found Becky and her companion, who was no other than our friend Briggs, busy cutting, ripping, snipping, and tearing all sorts of black stuffs available for the melancholy occasion.
当忠实的斯泰因勋爵晚上到达时，他发现贝基和她的同伴，正是我们的朋友布里格斯，正忙着剪、撕、剪、撕各种黑色的东西，以备忧郁的场合使用。

‘Miss Briggs and I are plunged in grief and despondency for the death of our Papa,’ Rebecca said. ‘Sir Pitt Crawley is dead, my lord. We have been tearing our hair all the morning, and now we are tearing up our old clothes.’
“布里格斯小姐和我对爸爸的去世感到悲痛和沮丧，”丽贝卡说。 “皮特·克劳利爵士死了，大人。我们整个早上都在撕扯头发，现在我们又撕扯旧衣服了。”

‘Oh, Rebecca, how can you—‘ was all that Briggs could say as she turned up her eyes.
“哦，丽贝卡，你怎么能——”布里格斯抬起眼睛时只能说这句话。

‘Oh, Rebecca, how can you—‘ echoed my Lord. ‘So that old scoundrel’s dead, is he? He might have been a Peer if he had played his cards better. Mr. Pitt had very nearly made him; but he ratted always at the wrong time. What an old Silenus it was!’
“哦，丽贝卡，你怎么能——”我的主重复道。 ‘这么说那个老混蛋已经死了，是吗？如果他打得更好的话，他可能会成为一名贵族。皮特先生差一点就成就了他。但他总是在错误的时间发脾气。这是多么古老的西勒诺斯呀！

‘I might have been Silenus’s widow,’ said Rebecca. ‘Don’t you remember, Miss Briggs, how you peeped in at the door and saw old Sir Pitt on his knees to me?’ Miss Briggs, our old friend, blushed very much at this reminiscence, and was glad when Lord Steyne ordered her to go downstairs and make him a cup of tea.
“我可能是西勒诺斯的遗孀，”丽贝卡说。 “你不记得吗，布里格斯小姐，你是如何从门口偷看，看到老皮特爵士向我跪下的？”布里格斯小姐，我们的老朋友，回忆起这段往事，脸红得很厉害，当斯泰因勋爵下令时，她很高兴她请她下楼去给他泡杯茶。

Briggs was the house-dog whom Rebecca had provided as guardian of her innocence and reputation. Miss Crawley had left her a little annuity. She would have been content to remain in the Crawley family with Lady Jane, who was good to her and to everybody; but Lady Southdown dismissed poor Briggs as quickly as decency permitted; and Mr. Pitt (who thought himself much injured by the uncalled-for generosity of his deceased relative towards a lady who had only been Miss Crawley’s faithful retainer a score of years) made no objection to that exercise of the dowager’s authority. Bowls and Firkin likewise received their legacies and their dismissals, and married and set up a lodging-house, according to the custom of their kind.
布里格斯是丽贝卡提供的看门狗，作为她的清白和名誉的守护者。克劳利小姐给她留下了一点年金。她本来会满足于和简夫人一起留在克劳利家族，简夫人对她和每个人都很好。但绍斯当夫人在体面允许的情况下尽快解雇了可怜的布里格斯。皮特先生（他认为自己因已故亲戚对一位只担任克劳利小姐忠实仆人二十年的女士的无端慷慨而受到很大伤害）对太后行使权力并不反对。鲍尔斯和菲尔金同样接受了他们的遗产和解职，并按照他们同类的习俗结婚并建立了一间宿舍。

Briggs tried to live with her relations in the country, but found that attempt was vain after the better society to which she had been accustomed. Briggs’s friends, small tradesmen, in a country town, quarrelled over Miss Briggs’s forty pounds a year as eagerly and more openly than Miss Crawley’s kinsfolk had for that lady’s inheritance. Briggs’s brother, a radical hatter and grocer, called his sister a purse-proud aristocrat, because she would not advance a part of her capital to stock his shop; and she would have done so most likely, but that their sister, a dissenting shoemaker’s lady, at variance with the hatter and grocer, who went to another chapel, showed how their brother was on the verge of bankruptcy, and took possession of Briggs for a while. The dissenting shoemaker wanted Miss Briggs to send his son to college and make a gentleman of him. Between them the two families got a great portion of her private savings out of her, and finally she fled to London followed by the anathemas of both, and determined to seek for servitude again as infinitely less onerous than liberty. And advertising in the papers that a ‘Gentlewoman of agreeable manners, and accustomed to the best society, was anxious to,’ &c., she took up her residence with Mr. Bowls in Half Moon Street, and waited the result of the advertisement.
布里格斯试图与她在乡下的亲戚一起生活，但发现在她已经习惯了更好的社会后，这种尝试是徒劳的。布里格斯的朋友，小商人，在一个乡村小镇上，为布里格斯小姐每年的四十英镑而争吵，其激烈程度和公开程度不亚于克劳利小姐的亲戚为那位女士的遗产而争吵的程度。布里格斯的哥哥是一位激进的制帽商和杂货商，他称他的妹妹是一个以钱包为荣的贵族，因为她不会预付一部分资金来为他的商店进货。她很可能会这样做，但他们的妹妹，一位持不同政见的鞋匠的女士，与帽匠和杂货商意见不合，去了另一个教堂，展示了他们的兄弟如何处于破产的边缘，并占有了布里格斯一会儿。持不同意见的鞋匠希望布里格斯小姐送他的儿子上大学，让他成为一个绅士。两个家庭从她身上榨取了很大一部分私人积蓄，最后她逃到了伦敦，遭到了双方的憎恶，并决心再次寻求比自由轻松得多的奴役。她在报纸上刊登广告说，“一位举止和蔼、习惯于上流社会的绅士渴望”，等等，她和鲍尔斯先生一起住在半月街，等待广告的结果。

So it was that she fell in with Rebecca. Mrs. Rawdon’s dashing little carriage and ponies was whirling down the street one day, just as Miss Briggs, fatigued, had reached Mr. Bowls’s door, after a weary walk to the Times Office in the City to insert her advertisement for the sixth time. Rebecca was driving, and at once recognized the gentlewoman with agreeable manners, and being a perfectly good-humoured woman, as we have seen, and having a regard for Briggs, she pulled up the ponies at the doorsteps, gave the reins to the groom, and jumping out, had hold of both Briggs’s hands, before she of the agreeable manners had recovered from the shock of seeing an old friend.
就这样，她爱上了丽贝卡。一天，罗登夫人的潇洒小马车和小马在街上呼啸而过，此时布里格斯小姐疲惫不堪，在疲惫地步行到纽约时报办公室第六次插入广告后，到达了鲍尔斯先生的门口。丽贝卡正在开车，她立刻认出了那位举止和蔼可亲的女士，正如我们所见，她是一位非常幽默的女人，出于对布里格斯的尊重，她把小马停在门口的台阶上，把缰绳交给了马夫，然后跳了出来，抓住了布里格斯的双手，在她从见到老朋友的震惊中恢复过来之前，她的举止和蔼可亲。

Briggs cried, and Becky laughed a great deal and kissed the gentlewoman as soon as they got into the passage; and thence into Mrs. Bowls’s front parlour, with the red moreen curtains, and the round looking-glass, with the chained eagle above, gazing upon the back of the ticket in the window which announced ‘Apartments to Let.’
布里格斯哭了，贝基大笑起来，一进过道就吻了那位女士。从那里走进鲍尔斯太太的前厅，那里挂着红色的莫林窗帘，还有圆形的镜子，上面有一只被链子拴着的老鹰，凝视着窗户上写着“出租公寓”的门票背面。

Briggs told all her history amidst those perfectly uncalled-for sobs and ejaculations of wonder with which women of her soft nature salute an old acquaintance, or regard a rencontre in the street; for though people meet other people every day, yet some there are who insist upon discovering miracles; and women, even though they have disliked each other, begin to cry when they meet, deploring and remembering the time when they last quarrelled. So, in a word, Briggs told all her history, and Becky gave a narrative of her own life, with her usual artlessness and candour.
布里格斯在那些完全没有必要的抽泣和惊叹中讲述了她所有的历史，像她这样温柔的女人向老熟人致敬，或者看待街上的偶遇。因为虽然人们每天都会遇到不同的人，但有些人坚持要发现奇迹；而女人，即使互相不喜欢，见面时也会开始哭泣，哀叹并回忆起上次争吵的时候。所以，总而言之，布里格斯讲述了她所有的历史，而贝基以她一贯的天真和坦率讲述了她自己的生活。

Mrs. Bowls, late Firkin, came and listened grimly in the passage to the hysterical sniffling and giggling which went on in the front parlour. Becky had never been a favourite of hers. Since the establishment of the married couple in London they had frequented their former friends of the house of Raggles, and did not like the latter’s account of the Colonel’s menage. ‘I wouldn’t trust him, Ragg, my boy,’ Bowls remarked; and his wife, when Mrs. Rawdon issued from the parlour, only saluted the lady with a very sour curtsey; and her fingers were like so many sausages, cold and lifeless, when she held them out in deference to Mrs. Rawdon, who persisted in shaking hands with the retired lady’s maid. She whirled away into Piccadilly, nodding with the sweetest of smiles towards Miss Briggs, who hung nodding at the window close under the advertisement-card, and at the next moment was in the park with a half-dozen of dandies cantering after her carriage.
已故的弗金·鲍尔斯太太走过来，冷酷地听着过道里前厅里传来的歇斯底里的抽鼻子声和咯咯笑声。贝基从来都不是她的最爱。自从这对夫妇在伦敦结婚以来，他们经常去拜访拉格斯家的前朋友，并且不喜欢后者对上校家族的描述。 “我不会相信他，拉格，我的孩子，”鲍尔斯说道。当罗登夫人从客厅里出来时，他的妻子只是向这位女士行了一个非常酸楚的屈膝礼。当她向罗登夫人表示敬意时，她的手指就像许多香肠一样，冰冷而毫无生气，罗登夫人坚持与这位退休女士的女仆握手。她飞快地驶入皮卡迪利大街，对布里格斯小姐露出最甜蜜的微笑，布里格斯小姐则在广告牌下方紧靠窗户的地方点头示意。 下一刻，她就到了公园，六个花花公子在她的马车后面慢跑。

When she found how her friend was situated, and how having a snug legacy from Miss Crawley, salary was no object to our gentlewoman, Becky instantly formed some benevolent little domestic plans concerning her. This was just such a companion as would suit her establishment, and she invited Briggs to come to dinner with her that very evening, when she should see Becky’s dear little darling Rawdon.
当贝基发现她朋友的处境如何，以及克劳利小姐留下的丰厚遗产时，薪水对我们的这位女士来说并不构成问题，贝基立即为她制定了一些仁慈的家庭小计划。这正是适合她的伴侣，她邀请布里格斯当天晚上和她一起吃晚饭，届时她应该会看到贝基亲爱的罗登。

Mrs. Bowls cautioned her lodger against venturing into the lion’s den, ‘wherein you will rue it, Miss B., mark my words, and as sure as my name is Bowls.’ And Briggs promised to be very cautious. The upshot of which caution was that she went to live with Mrs. Rawdon the next week, and had lent Rawdon Crawley six hundred pounds upon annuity before six months were over.
鲍尔斯夫人警告她的房客不要冒险进入狮子的巢穴，“B小姐，你会后悔的，记住我的话，而且我的名字叫鲍尔斯。”布里格斯保证会非常小心。这种谨慎的结果是，她下周去和罗登夫人住在一起，并在六个月结束前借给罗登·克劳利六百英镑的年金。

Chapter XLI
第四十一章


In Which Becky Revisits the Halls of Her Ancestors
贝基重访祖先的殿堂

So the mourning being ready, and Sir Pitt Crawley warned of their arrival, Colonel Crawley and his wife took a couple of places in the same old High-flyer coach by which Rebecca had travelled in the defunct Baronet’s company, on her first journey into the world some nine years before. How well she remembered the Inn Yard, and the ostler to whom she refused money, and the insinuating Cambridge lad who wrapped her in his coat on the journey! Rawdon took his place outside, and would have liked to drive, but his grief forbade him. He sat by the coachman and talked about horses and the road the whole way; and who kept the inns, and who horsed the coach by which he had travelled so many a time, when he and Pitt were boys going to Eton. At Mudbury a carriage and a pair of horses received them, with a coachman in black. ‘It’s the old drag, Rawdon,’ Rebecca said as they got in. ‘The worms have eaten the cloth a good deal— there’s the stain which Sir Pitt—ha! I see Dawson the Ironmonger has his shutters up—which Sir Pitt made such a noise about. It was a bottle of cherry brandy he broke which we went to fetch for your aunt from Southampton. How time flies, to be sure! That can’t be Polly Talboys, that bouncing girl standing by her mother at the cottage there. I remember her a mangy little urchin picking weeds in the garden.’
哀悼仪式已经准备好，皮特·克劳利爵士警告他们即将到来，克劳利上校和他的妻子在丽贝卡第一次前往圣地的途中乘坐的那辆老式高飞客车上坐了几个座位，这辆客车是丽贝卡在已不复存在的准男爵的陪伴下乘坐的。大约九年前的世界。她多么清楚地记得旅馆院子，记得她拒绝给钱的马夫，还有旅途中用外套包裹着她的含沙射影的剑桥小伙子！罗登在外面占了位置，本来想开车，但他的悲伤不允许他这么做。他坐在车夫旁边，一路上谈论马匹和道路。当他和皮特还是孩子的时候，他和皮特去伊顿公学时，谁开着旅馆，谁骑着他多次旅行的马车。在马德伯里，一辆马车和两匹马迎接了他们，还有一位身穿黑衣的车夫。 “这是旧衣服，罗登，”他们上车时丽贝卡说道。“这块布已经被虫子吃掉很多了——皮特爵士留下了污渍——哈！”我看到铁贩道森把百叶窗关上了——皮特爵士对此大吵大闹。他打碎了一瓶樱桃白兰地，我们去南安普敦给你姨妈取来的。当然，时间过得真快！那不可能是波莉·托尔博伊斯，那个在小屋里站在她母亲身边的蹦蹦跳跳的女孩。我记得她是一个在花园里除草的肮脏小顽童。

‘Fine gal,’ said Rawdon, returning the salute which the cottage gave him, by two fingers applied to his crape hatband. Becky bowed and saluted, and recognized people here and there graciously. These recognitions were inexpressibly pleasant to her. It seemed as if she was not an imposter any more, and was coming to the home of her ancestors. Rawdon was rather abashed and cast down, on the other hand. What recollections of boyhood and innocence might have been flitting across his brain? What pangs of dim remorse and doubt and shame?
“好姑娘，”罗登说，用​​两根手指放在他的黑纱帽带上，以回应小屋向他致敬。贝基鞠躬行礼，并很有礼貌地认出了这里那里的人。这些认可让她感到难以言喻的愉悦。看来她不再是冒名顶替的人了，而是来到了祖辈的家里。另一方面，罗登却相当羞愧和沮丧。他的脑海中可能闪过哪些关于童年和纯真的回忆？隐约的悔恨、怀疑和羞耻是怎样的痛苦？

‘Your sisters must be young women now,’ Rebecca said, thinking of those girls for the first time perhaps since she had left them.
“你的姐妹们现在一定是年轻女子了，”丽贝卡说，也许是自从她离开她们以来，她第一次想起那些女孩。

‘Don’t know, I’m shaw,’ replied the Colonel. ‘Hullo! here’s old Mother Lock. How-dy-do, Mrs. Lock? Remember me, don’t you? Master Rawdon, hey? Dammy how those old women last; she was a hundred when I was a boy.’
“不知道，我是肖，”上校回答道。 ‘哈喽！这是老锁母。你好吗，洛克夫人？还记得我吗？罗登大师，嘿？天哪，那些老妇人的日子过得怎么样？当我还是个孩子的时候，她已经一百岁了。

They were going through the lodge-gates kept by old Mrs. Lock, whose hand Rebecca insisted upon shaking, as she flung open the creaking old iron gate, and the carriage passed between the two moss-grown pillars surmounted by the dove and serpent.
他们正穿过老洛克太太看守的小屋大门，丽贝卡猛地推开吱吱作响的旧铁门时，丽贝卡坚持要握着洛​​克太太的手，马车从两根长满青苔的柱子之间驶过，柱子上有鸽子和蛇。

‘The governor has cut into the timber,’ Rawdon said, looking about, and then was silent—so was Becky. Both of them were rather agitated, and thinking of old times. He about Eton, and his mother, whom he remembered, a frigid demure woman, and a sister who died, of whom he had been passionately fond; and how he used to thrash Pitt; and about little Rawdy at home. And Rebecca thought about her own youth and the dark secrets of those early tainted days; and of her entrance into life by yonder gates; and of Miss Pinkerton, and Joe, and Amelia.
“州长已经把木材切开了，”罗登环顾四周说道，然后沉默了——贝基也是如此。两人心情都有些激动，又想起了往事。他想起了伊顿公学，想起了他的母亲，一个冷酷端庄的女人，还有一个他一直深爱着但已去世的妹妹。以及他过去如何殴打皮特；还有家里的小罗迪。丽贝卡想起了自己的青春岁月，以及早年那些肮脏日子里的黑暗秘密。以及她从那边的大门进入生命；还有平克顿小姐、乔和阿米莉亚。

The gravel walk and terrace had been scraped quite clean. A grand painted hatchment was already over the great entrance, and two very solemn and tall personages in black flung open each a leaf of the door as the carriage pulled up at the familiar steps. Rawdon turned red, and Becky somewhat pale, as they passed through the old hall, arm in arm. She pinched her husband’s arm as they entered the oak parlour, where Sir Pitt and his wife were ready to receive them. Sir Pitt in black, Lady Jane in black, and my Lady Southdown with a large black head-piece of bugles and feathers, which waved on her Ladyship’s head like an undertaker’s tray.
碎石路和露台已经刮得很干净了。大门上方已经出现了一个巨大的彩绘舱门，当马车停在熟悉的台阶上时，两个非常庄严高大的黑衣人物猛地打开了门扇。当他们手挽着手穿过古老的大厅时，罗登的脸涨得通红，贝基的脸色也有些苍白。当他们进入橡木客厅时，她捏住了丈夫的手臂，皮特爵士和他的妻子已经准备好迎接他们。皮特爵士穿黑色衣服，简女士穿黑色衣服，还有我的索斯唐夫人，她戴着一顶镶有号角和羽毛的黑色大头饰，它像殡葬承办人的托盘一样在她夫人的头上飘扬。

Sir Pitt had judged correctly, that she would not quit the premises. She contented herself by preserving a solemn and stony silence, when in company of Pitt and his rebellious wife, and by frightening the children in the nursery by the ghastly gloom of her demeanour. Only a very faint bending of the head-dress and plumes welcomed Rawdon and his wife, as those prodigals returned to their family.
皮特爵士的判断是正确的，她不会离开这里。当与皮特和他叛逆的妻子在一起时，她满足于保持庄严而冷漠的沉默，并以她可怕的忧郁举止吓坏托儿所里的孩子们。当这些浪子回到他们的家人时，只有头饰和羽毛微微弯曲，迎接罗登和他的妻子。

To say the truth, they were not affected very much one way or other by this coolness. Her Ladyship was a person only of secondary consideration in their minds just then—they were intent upon the reception which the reigning brother and sister would afford them.
说实话，他们并没有受到这种冷静的太大影响。那时，在他们的心目中，夫人只是一个次要的人物——他们专注于在位的兄弟姐妹会给他们提供的接待。

Pitt, with rather a heightened colour, went up and shook his brother by the hand, and saluted Rebecca with a hand-shake and a very low bow. But Lady Jane took both the hands of her sister-in-law and kissed her affectionately. The embrace somehow brought tears into the eyes of the little adventuress—which ornaments, as we know, she wore very seldom. The artless mark of kindness and confidence touched and pleased her; and Rawdon, encouraged by this demonstration on his sister’s part, twirled up his mustachios and took leave to salute Lady Jane with a kiss, which caused her Ladyship to blush exceedingly.
皮特的脸色相当难看，走上前握住了弟弟的手，并与丽贝卡握手并深深鞠了一躬。简夫人却拉着嫂子的双手，深情地吻住了她。这个拥抱不知何故让这位小冒险家的眼里涌出了泪水——据我们所知，她很少佩戴这种装饰品。那种朴实无华的善意和自信让她感动又高兴。罗登受到妹妹这一举动的鼓舞，卷起了小胡子，离开并亲吻了简夫人，这让简夫人脸红得厉害。

‘Dev’lish nice little woman, Lady Jane,’ was his verdict, when he and his wife were together again. ‘Pitt’s got fat, too, and is doing the thing handsomely.’ ‘He can afford it,’ said Rebecca and agreed in her husband’s farther opinion ‘that the mother-in-law was a tremendous old Guy—and that the sisters were rather well-looking young women.’
当他和妻子再次在一起时，他的结论是“真是个可爱的小女人，简女士”。 “皮特也胖了，而且做得很漂亮。”“他负担得起，”丽贝卡说，并同意她丈夫的进一步意见，“婆婆是个了不起的老家伙——而且姐妹们都是相当漂亮的年轻女性。

They, too, had been summoned from school to attend the funeral ceremonies. It seemed Sir Pitt Crawley, for the dignity of the house and family, had thought right to have about the place as many persons in black as could possibly be assembled. All the men and maids of the house, the old women of the Alms House, whom the elder Sir Pitt had cheated out of a great portion of their due, the parish clerk’s family, and the special retainers of both Hall and Rectory were habited in sable; added to these, the undertaker’s men, at least a score, with crapes and hatbands, and who made goodly show when the great burying show took place—but these are mute personages in our drama; and having nothing to do or say, need occupy a very little space here.
他们也被学校叫去参加葬礼。皮特·克劳利爵士为了房子和家庭的尊严，认为在这个地方聚集尽可能多的黑衣人是正确的。家里所有的男人和女仆，施舍院的老妇人（老皮特爵士骗走了她们大部分应得的钱），教区书记员的家人，以及大厅和教区长的特别侍从都住在这栋房子里。黑貂;除此之外，殡仪馆的人，至少有二十个，戴着黑纱和帽带，在伟大的埋葬表演中表现出色——但这些人在我们的戏剧中都是沉默的人物。没有什么可做或可说的，需要在这里占据很小的空间。

With regard to her sisters-in-law Rebecca did not attempt to forget her former position of Governess towards them, but recalled it frankly and kindly, and asked them about their studies with great gravity, and told them that she had thought of them many and many a day, and longed to know of their welfare. In fact you would have supposed that ever since she had left them she had not ceased to keep them uppermost in her thoughts and to take the tenderest interest in their welfare. So supposed Lady Crawley herself and her young sisters.
对于她的嫂子，丽贝卡并没有试图忘记她以前对她们的家庭教师的地位，而是坦诚而友善地回忆起这件事，并严肃地询问她们的学习情况，并告诉她们，她为她们考虑了很多。很多天，都渴望知道他们的状况。事实上，你可能会认为，自从她离开他们之后，她就一直把他们放在首位，对他们的福祉关心不已。克劳利夫人本人和她的妹妹们也是如此认为的。

‘She’s hardly changed since eight years,’ said Miss Rosalind to Miss Violet, as they were preparing for dinner.
“八年来，她几乎没变过。”当他们准备晚餐时，罗莎琳德小姐对维奥莱特小姐说道。

‘Those red-haired women look wonderfully well,’ replied the other.
“那些红发女人看起来非常好。”另一个回答道。

‘Hers is much darker than it was; I think she must dye it,’ Miss Rosalind added. ‘She is stouter, too, and altogether improved,’ continued Miss Rosalind, who was disposed to be very fat.
“她的颜色比以前暗多了；我想她必须把它染一下，”罗莎琳德小姐补充道。 “她也更胖了，而且全面改善了，”原本很胖的罗莎琳德小姐继续说道。

‘At least she gives herself no airs and remembers that she was our Governess once,’ Miss Violet said, intimating that it befitted all governesses to keep their proper place, and forgetting altogether that she was granddaughter not only of Sir Walpole Crawley, but of Mr. Dawson of Mudbury, and so had a coal-scuttle in her scutcheon. There are other very well-meaning people whom one meets every day in Vanity Fair who are surely equally oblivious.
“至少她没有摆架子，还记得她曾经是我们的家庭教师，”维奥莱特小姐说，暗示所有家庭教师都应该保持自己应有的地位，完全忘记了她不仅是沃波尔·克劳利爵士的孙女，而且是沃波尔·克劳利爵士的孙女。马德伯里的道森先生，所以她的标牌上有一个煤斗。人们每天在《名利场》中遇到的其他善意的人肯定也同样健忘。

‘It can’t be true what the girls at the Rectory said, that her mother was an opera-dancer—‘
“教区长的女孩们说她母亲是一名歌剧舞者，这不可能是真的——”

‘A person can’t help their birth,’ Rosalind replied with great liberality. ‘And I agree with our brother, that as she is in the family, of course we are bound to notice her. I am sure Aunt Bute need not talk; she wants to marry Kate to young Hooper, the winemerchant, and absolutely asked him to come to the Rectory for orders.’
“一个人无法控制自己的出生，”罗莎琳德慷慨地回答道。 “我同意我们兄弟的观点，因为她是家里人，我们当然会注意到她。我相信比特阿姨不需要说话；她想把凯特嫁给年轻的酒商胡珀，并绝对要求他来教区长接受命令。

‘I wonder whether Lady Southdown will go away, she looked very glum upon Mrs. Rawdon,’ the other said.
“我不知道索斯当夫人是否会走开，她对罗登夫人看起来很闷闷不乐，”另一个人说。

‘I wish she would. I won’t read the Washerwoman of Finchley Common,’ vowed Violet; and so saying, and avoiding a passage at the end of which a certain coffin was placed with a couple of watchers, and lights perpetually burning in the closed room, these young women came down to the family dinner, for which the bell rang as usual.
“我希望她会这么做。我不会读《芬奇利公地的洗衣妇》，”维奥莱特发誓。这么说着，这些年轻女子避开了一条通道，通道尽头放着一口棺材，有几个守卫，封闭的房间里永远亮着灯，这些年轻的女人来到家庭晚宴上，门铃像往常一样响了起来。 。

But before this, Lady Jane conducted Rebecca to the apartments prepared for her, which, with the rest of the house, had assumed a very much improved appearance of order and comfort during Pitt’s regency, and here beholding that Mrs. Rawdon’s modest little trunks had arrived, and were placed in the bedroom and dressing-room adjoining, helped her to take off her neat black bonnet and cloak, and asked her sister-in-law in what more she could be useful.
但在此之前，简夫人领着丽贝卡去了为她准备的公寓，在皮特摄政期间，这些公寓和房子的其他部分一样，看上去秩序井然，舒适得多，在这里，罗登夫人朴素的小箱子已经有了很大的改善。到了，被安置在毗邻的卧室和更衣室里，帮她脱下整洁的黑色帽子和斗篷，并问她的嫂子还有什么用处。

‘What I should like best,’ said Rebecca, ‘would be to go to the nursery and see your dear little children.’ On which the two ladies looked very kindly at each other and went to that apartment hand in hand.
“我最喜欢的事情，”丽贝卡说，“就是去托儿所看看你们亲爱的孩子们。”两位女士非常友善地互相看了对方一眼，然后手牵着手朝那间公寓走去。

Becky admired little Matilda, who was not quite four years old, as the most charming little love in the world; and the boy, a little fellow of two years—pale, heavy-eyed, and large-headed—she pronounced to be a perfect prodigy in point of size, intelligence, and beauty.
贝基欣赏不到四岁的小玛蒂尔达，认为她是世界上最迷人的小可爱。而那个男孩，一个两岁的小家伙——脸色苍白，眼睛很大，脑袋很大——她宣称无论从身材、智力还是美貌来看，他都是一个完美的神童。

‘I wish Mamma would not insist on giving him so much medicine,’ Lady Jane said with a sigh. ‘I often think we should all be better without it.’ And then Lady Jane and her new-found friend had one of those confidential medical conversations about the children, which all mothers, and most women, as I am given to understand, delight in. Fifty years ago, and when the present writer, being an interesting little boy, was ordered out of the room with the ladies after dinner, I remember quite well that their talk was chiefly about their ailments; and putting this question directly to two or three since, I have always got from them the acknowledgement that times are not changed. Let my fair readers remark for themselves this very evening when they quit the dessert-table and assemble to celebrate the drawing-room mysteries. Well—in half an hour Becky and Lady Jane were close and intimate friends—and in the course of the evening her Ladyship informed Sir Pitt that she thought her new sister-in-law was a kind, frank, unaffected, and affectionate young woman.
“我希望妈妈不要坚持给他吃这么多药。”简夫人叹了口气说道。 “我常常想，如果没有它，我们都会变得更好。”然后，简女士和她的新朋友进行了一场关于孩子们的秘密医疗对话，据我所知，所有母亲和大多数女性都很高兴五十年前，当这位作家，一个有趣的小男孩，在晚饭后被命令与女士们一起离开房间时，我清楚地记得他们的谈话主要是关于他们的疾病；从那以后，我直接向两三个人提出这个问题，他们总是承认时代没有改变。让我的公平读者今晚离开甜点桌并聚集在一起庆祝客厅的奥秘时自己评论一下。嗯——半个小时后，贝基和简夫人就成了亲密无间的朋友——晚上，她的夫人告诉皮特爵士，她认为她的新嫂子是一位善良、坦率、不受影响、深情的年轻女子。 。

And so having easily won the daughter’s good-will, the indefatigable little woman bent herself to conciliate the august Lady Southdown. As soon as she found her Ladyship alone, Rebecca attacked her on the nursery question at once and said that her own little boy was saved, actually saved, by calomel, freely administered, when all the physicians in Paris had given the dear child up. And then she mentioned how often she had heard of Lady Southdown from that excellent man the Reverend Lawrence Grills, Minister of the chapel in May Fair, which she frequented; and how her views were very much changed by circumstances and misfortunes; and how she hoped that a past life spent in worldliness and error might not incapacitate her from more serious thought for the future. She described how in former days she had been indebted to Mr. Crawley for religious instruction, touched upon the Washerwoman of Finchley Common, which she had read with the greatest profit, and asked about Lady Emily, its gifted author, now Lady Emily Hornblower, at Cape Town, where her husband had strong hopes of becoming Bishop of Caffraria.
于是，这位不知疲倦的小女人轻而易举地赢得了女儿的好感，便一心一意地去安抚威严的绍斯唐夫人。当她发现夫人独自一人时，丽贝卡立即就婴儿问题向她发起攻击，并说她自己的小男孩得救了，实际上是通过甘汞的自由用药得救的，而当时巴黎所有的医生都放弃了这个可爱的孩子。然后她提到她经常从那位杰出的人劳伦斯·格里尔斯牧师那里听说过索斯唐夫人，劳伦斯·格里尔斯牧师是她经常去的梅菲尔教堂的牧师；以及她的观点如何因环境和不幸而发生很大改变；她多么希望在世俗和错误中度过的前世不会让她无法对未来进行更严肃的思考。她描述了过去她如何感谢克劳利先生的宗教教导，谈到了《芬奇利公地的洗衣妇》，这本书让她读得受益匪浅，并询问了艾米丽女士的情况，她是该书的天才作者，现在是艾米丽·霍恩布洛尔女士，在开普敦，她的丈夫强烈希望成为卡夫拉里亚的主教。

But she crowned all, and confirmed herself in Lady Southdown’s favour, by feeling very much agitated and unwell after the funeral and requesting her Ladyship’s medical advice, which the Dowager not only gave, but, wrapped up in a bed-gown and looking more like Lady Macbeth than ever, came privately in the night to Becky’s room with a parcel of favourite tracts, and a medicine of her own composition, which she insisted that Mrs. Rawdon should take.
但她在葬礼后感到非常焦躁和不适，并请求夫人的医疗建议，而索斯当夫人不仅给予了她的医疗建议，而且裹在睡衣中，看起来更像麦克白夫人比以往任何时候都更在夜间私下里来到贝基的房间，带着一包最喜欢的小册子和她自己配制的药物，她坚持让罗登夫人服用。

Becky first accepted the tracts and began to examine them with great interest, engaging the Dowager in a conversation concerning them and the welfare of her soul, by which means she hoped that her body might escape medication. But after the religious topics were exhausted, Lady Macbeth would not quit Becky’s chamber until her cup of night-drink was emptied too; and poor Mrs. Rawdon was compelled actually to assume a look of gratitude, and to swallow the medicine under the unyielding old Dowager’s nose, who left her victim finally with a benediction.
贝基首先接受了这些小册子，并开始饶有兴趣地检查它们，并与太后讨论这些小册子和她灵魂的福祉，她希望通过这种方式，她的身体可以摆脱药物治疗。但在宗教话题讲完之后，麦克白夫人直到她那杯夜酒也喝完之后才离开贝基的房间。可怜的罗登夫人不得不装出一副感激的表情，在不屈不挠的老太婆眼皮子底下吞下了药，老太婆最终给她的受害者留下了祝福。

It did not much comfort Mrs. Rawdon; her countenance was very queer when Rawdon came in and heard what had happened; and. his explosions of laughter were as loud as usual, when Becky, with a fun which she could not disguise, even though it was at her own expense, described the occurrence and how she had been victimized by Lady Southdown. Lord Steyne, and her son in London, had many a laugh over the story when Rawdon and his wife returned to their quarters in May Fair. Becky acted the whole scene for them. She put on a night-cap and gown. She preached a great sermon in the true serious manner; she lectured on the virtue of the medicine which she pretended to administer, with a gravity of imitation so perfect that you would have thought it was the Countess’s own Roman nose through which she snuffled. ‘Give us Lady Southdown and the black dose,’ was a constant cry amongst the folks in Becky’s little drawing-room in May Fair. And for the first time in her life the Dowager Countess of Southdown was made amusing.
这并没有让罗登夫人感到多少安慰。当罗登进来听到发生的事情时，她的表情非常奇怪。和。当贝基带着一种她无法掩饰的乐趣（尽管这是自费的）描述这件事以及她是如何被绍斯唐夫人所伤害时，他爆发出像往常一样的大笑声。当罗登和他的妻子回到梅费尔的住所时，斯泰恩勋爵和她在伦敦的儿子对这个故事大笑不已。贝基为他们表演了整个场景。她戴上睡帽，穿上睡衣。她以真正严肃的方式讲了一场伟大的布道。她讲授她假装服用的药物的功效，模仿得如此完美，以至于你会以为她用的是伯爵夫人自己的罗马鼻子吸鼻子。 “给我们索斯唐夫人和黑色药剂，”在梅菲尔贝基的小客厅里，人们不断地喊着。绍斯当伯爵夫人有生以来第一次被逗乐了。

Sir Pitt remembered the testimonies of respect and veneration which Rebecca had paid personally to himself in early days, and was tolerably well disposed towards her. The marriage, ill-advised as it was, had improved Rawdon very much—that was clear from the Colonel’s altered habits and demeanour—and had it not been a lucky union as regarded Pitt himself? The cunning diplomatist smiled inwardly as he owned that he owed his fortune to it, and acknowledged that he at least ought not to cry out against it. His satisfaction was not removed by Rebecca’s own statements, behaviour, and conversation.
皮特爵士记得丽贝卡早年对自己表示的尊重和崇拜，对她的态度还算不错。这场婚姻虽然不明智，但却使罗登有了很大的进步——从上校改变的习惯和举止中可以清楚地看出这一点——皮特本人认为这不是一个幸运的结合吗？这位狡猾的外交官内心暗笑，他承认自己的财富是靠它获得的，并承认他至少不应该大声反对。丽贝卡自己的言论、行为和谈话并没有消除他的满足感。

She doubled the deference which before had charmed him, calling out his conversational powers in such a manner as quite to surprise Pitt himself, who, always inclined to respect his own talents, admired them the more when Rebecca pointed them out to him. With her sister-in-law, Rebecca was satisfactorily able to prove that it was Mrs. Bute Crawley who brought about the marriage which she afterwards so calumniated; that it was Mrs. Bute’s avarice—who hoped to gain all Miss Crawley’s fortune and deprive Rawdon of his aunt’s favour—which caused and invented all the wicked reports against Rebecca. ‘She succeeded in making us poor,’ Rebecca said with an air of angelical patience; ‘but how can I be angry with a woman who has given me one of the best husbands in the world? And has not her own avarice been sufficiently punished by the ruin of her own hopes and the loss of the property by which she set so much store? Poor!’ she cried. ‘Dear Lady Jane, what care we for poverty? I am used to it from childhood, and I am often thankful that Miss Crawley’s money has gone to restore the splendour of the noble old family of which I am so proud to be a member. I am sure Sir Pitt will make a much better use of it than Rawdon would.’
她比以前令他着迷的敬意加倍，以一种令皮特本人都感到惊讶的方式展现出他的谈话能力，皮特总是倾向于尊重自己的才能，当丽贝卡向他指出这些才能时，他更加钦佩它们。丽贝卡和她的嫂子一起令人满意地证明了是布特·克劳利夫人促成了这桩婚姻，而她后来又对这桩婚姻进行了诽谤。布特夫人的贪婪——她希望获得克劳利小姐的全部财产，并剥夺罗登姨妈的青睐——导致并发明了所有针对丽贝卡的邪恶报道。 “她成功地让我们变得贫穷，”丽贝卡带着天使般的耐心说道。 “但是我怎么能对一个给了我世界上最好的丈夫之一的女人生气呢？”难道她自己的贪婪还没有因为她自己的希望破灭和她所珍视的财产的损失而受到充分的惩罚吗？可怜！”她喊道。 “亲爱的简女士，我们何必关心贫穷呢？我从小就习惯了，我常常感激克劳利小姐的钱让这个古老的贵族家族恢复了辉煌，我为自己是这个家族的一员而感到自豪。我相信皮特爵士会比罗登更好地利用它。

All these speeches were reported to Sir Pitt by the most faithful of wives, and increased the favourable impression which Rebecca made; so much so that when, on the third day after the funeral, the family party were at dinner, Sir Pitt Crawley, carving fowls at the head of the table, actually said to Mrs. Rawdon, ‘Ahem! Rebecca, may I give you a wing?’—a speech which made the little woman’s eyes sparkle with pleasure.
所有这些讲话都由最忠实的妻子向皮特爵士报告，增加了丽贝卡给人的好感。以至于葬礼后的第三天，当家人聚餐时，坐在桌首切鸡的皮特·克劳利爵士实际上对罗登夫人说：“咳咳！”丽贝卡，我可以给你一只翅膀吗？”这句话让小女人的眼睛里闪烁着喜悦的光芒。

While Rebecca was prosecuting the above schemes and hopes, and Pitt Crawley arranging the funeral ceremonial and other matters connected with his future progress and dignity, and Lady Jane busy with her nursery, as far as her mother would let her, and the sun rising and setting, and the clock-tower bell of the Hall ringing to dinner and to prayers as usual, the body of the late owner of Queen’s Crawley lay in the apartment which he had occupied, watched unceasingly by the professional attendants who were engaged for that rite. A woman or two, and three or four undertaker’s men, the best whom Southampton could furnish, dressed in black, and of a proper stealthy and tragical demeanour, had charge of the remains which they watched turn about, having the housekeeper’s room for their place of rendezvous when off duty, where they played at cards in privacy and drank their beer.
当丽贝卡正在执行上述计划和希望时，皮特·克劳利正在安排葬礼和其他与他未来的进步和尊严有关的事情，而简女士则在她母亲允许的范围内忙着她的托儿所，太阳升起和升起。大厅的钟楼钟声照常响起，晚餐和祈祷时，女王克劳利酒店已故主人的遗体躺在他所居住的公寓里，由专门从事该仪式的专业侍从不断注视着。 。一两个女人和三四个殡葬承办人，南安普顿能提供的最好的人，穿着黑衣，举止得体的隐秘而悲惨，他们负责看守遗骸，他们看着转动，把管家的房间当作他们的位置。下班后的约会，他们私下里打牌、喝啤酒。

The members of the family and servants of the house kept away from the gloomy spot, where the bones of the descendant of an ancient line of knights and gentlemen lay, awaiting their final consignment to the family crypt. No regrets attended them, save those of the poor woman who had hoped to be Sir Pitt’s wife and widow and who had fled in disgrace from the Hall over which she had so nearly been a ruler. Beyond her and a favourite old pointer he had, and between whom and himself an attachment subsisted during the period of his imbecility, the old man had not a single friend to mourn him, having indeed, during the whole course of his life, never taken the least pains to secure one. Could the best and kindest of us who depart from the earth have an opportunity of revisiting it, I suppose he or she (assuming that any Vanity Fair feelings subsist in the sphere whither we are bound) would have a pang of mortification at finding how soon our survivors were consoled. And so Sir Pitt was forgotten—like the kindest and best of us—only a few weeks sooner.
家族成员和仆人都远离这个阴暗的地方，那里躺着古代骑士和绅士后裔的尸骨，等待着他们最后被送往家族的墓穴。他们没有后悔，除了那个可怜的女人，她本来希望成为皮特爵士的妻子和遗孀，但她却羞辱地逃离了她几乎成为大厅统治者的大厅。除了她和他最喜欢的一位老指针之外，在他愚蠢的时期，他和他自己之间存在着一种依恋，老人没有一个朋友来哀悼他，事实上，在他的整个一生中，他从未采取过任何行动。最省力地获得一个。如果我们这些离开地球的人中最优秀和最善良的人有机会重新审视它，我想他或她（假设任何名利场的感觉都存在于我们所绑定的领域）会因发现多久而感到羞愧我们的幸存者得到了安慰。就这样，皮特爵士像我们中最善良、最优秀的人一样被遗忘了，就在几周前。

Those who will may follow his remains to the grave, whither they were borne on the appointed day, in the most becoming manner, the family in black coaches, with their handkerchiefs up to their noses, ready for the tears which did not come; the undertaker and his gentlemen in deep tribulation; the select tenantry mourning out of compliment to the new landlord; the neighbouring gentry’s carriages at three miles an hour, empty, and in profound affliction; the parson speaking out the formula about ‘our dear brother departed.’ As long as we have a man’s body, we play our Vanities upon it, surrounding it with humbug and ceremonies, laying it in state, and packing it up in gilt nails and velvet; and we finish our duty by placing over it a stone, written all over with lies. Bute’s curate, a smart young fellow from Oxford, and Sir Pitt Crawley composed between them an appropriate Latin epitaph for the late lamented Baronet, and the former preached a classical sermon, exhorting the survivors not to give way to grief and informing them in the most respectful terms that they also would be one day called upon to pass that gloomy and mysterious portal which had just closed upon the remains of their lamented brother. Then the tenantry mounted on horseback again, or stayed and refreshed themselves at the Crawley Arms. Then, after a lunch in the servants’ hall at Queen’s Crawley, the gentry’s carriages wheeled off to their different destinations: then the undertaker’s men, taking the ropes, palls, velvets, ostrich feathers, and other mortuary properties, clambered up on the roof of the hearse and rode off to Southampton. Their faces relapsed into a natural expression as the horses, clearing the lodge-gates, got into a brisker trot on the open road; and squads of them might have been seen, speckling with black the public-house entrances, with pewterpots flashing in the sunshine. Sir Pitt’s invalid chair was wheeled away into a tool-house in the garden; the old pointer used to howl sometimes at first, but these were the only accents of grief which were heard in the Hall of which Sir Pitt Crawley, Baronet, had been master for some threescore years.
那些愿意跟随他的遗体到坟墓的人，他们会在指定的日子以最恰当的方式被带到那里，家人乘坐黑色马车，用手帕遮住鼻子，准备好迎接没有流下的眼泪；殡葬承办人和他的先生们正处于深深的磨难之中；精选的租户出于对新房东的恭维而哀悼；邻近乡绅的马车以每小时三英里的速度行驶，空无一人，痛苦不堪。牧师说出“我们亲爱的兄弟去世了”的公式。只要我们有一个人的身体，我们就在它上面发挥我们的虚荣心，用欺骗和仪式包围它，把它摆放整齐，用镀金的钉子和包装它。天鹅绒;我们通过在上面放一块写满谎言的石头来完成我们的职责。布特的副牧师是一位来自牛津的聪明年轻人，他和皮特·克劳利爵士为这位已故的男爵撰写了一篇恰当的拉丁文墓志铭，前者宣讲了一场古典布道，劝告幸存者不要屈服于悲伤，并以最真实的方式告知他们。尊敬的条款说，有一天他们也将被要求通过那扇刚刚关闭的阴暗而神秘的门户，该门户刚刚关闭在他们悲痛的兄弟的遗体上。然后，佃农们又骑上马，或者留在克劳利阿姆斯休息一下。然后，在克劳利女王的仆人大厅吃完午饭后，贵族们的马车驶向不同的目的地：然后，殡仪馆的人带着绳子、棺材、天鹅绒、鸵鸟羽毛和其他太平间财产，爬上屋顶灵车开往南安普敦。 当马匹冲出小屋大门，在开阔的道路上快步小跑时，他们的脸上又恢复了自然的表情。人们可能会看到他们成群结队地在酒吧入口处洒满黑色斑点，锡罐在阳光下闪闪发光。皮特爵士病弱的椅子被推到花园里的一个工具库里。起初，老指针有时会嚎叫，但这是在大厅里听到的唯一悲伤的口音，从男爵皮特·克劳利爵士已经主宰了这个大厅大约三十年。

As the birds were pretty plentiful, and partridge shooting is as it were the duty of an English gentleman of statesmanlike propensities, Sir Pitt Crawley, the first shock of grief over, went out a little and partook of that diversion in a white hat with crape round it. The sight of those fields of stubble and turnips, now his own, gave him many secret joys. Sometimes, and with an exquisite humility, he took no gun, but went out with a peaceful bamboo cane; Rawdon, his big brother, and the keepers blazing away at his side. Pitt’s money and acres had a great effect upon his brother. The penniless Colonel became quite obsequious and respectful to the head of his house, and despised the milksop Pitt no longer. Rawdon listened with sympathy to his senior’s prospects of planting and draining, gave his advice about the stables and cattle, rode over to Mudbury to look at a mare, which he thought would carry Lady Jane, and offered to break her, &c.: the rebellious dragoon was quite humbled and subdued, and became a most creditable younger brother. He had constant bulletins from Miss Briggs in London respecting little Rawdon, who was left behind there, who sent messages of his own. ‘I am very well,’ he wrote. ‘I hope you are very well. I hope Mamma is very well. The pony is very well. Grey takes me to ride in the park. I can canter. I met the little boy who rode before. He cried when he cantered. I do not cry.’ Rawdon read these letters to his brother and Lady Jane, who was delighted with them. The Baronet promised to take charge of the lad at school, and his kind-hearted wife gave Rebecca a bank-note, begging her to buy a present with it for her little nephew.
由于鸟儿数量相当多，而射杀鹧鸪可以说是一位具有政治家气质的英国绅士的职责，皮特·克劳利爵士在第一次悲伤过后，就出去了一会儿，戴着一顶带黑纱的白帽子，参与了这场消遣。围绕它。看到那些现在属于他自己的残茬和萝卜地，给他带来了许多秘密的快乐。有时，他带着一种极其谦虚的态度，不带枪，只是拿着一根安静的竹杖出去。罗登、他的哥哥和守门员们在他身边奋力拼搏。皮特的金钱和土地对他的兄弟产生了很大的影响。身无分文的上校对一家之主变得十分恭顺和恭敬，不再鄙视奶嘴皮特了。罗登同情地听取了他的前辈关于种植和排水的前景，提出了有关马厩和牛的建议，骑马到马德伯里看一匹母马，他认为这匹母马会载着简夫人，并提出要打破她，等等：叛逆的龙骑颇为卑微，成为了最值得信赖的弟弟。他不断收到伦敦布里格斯小姐发来的关于小罗登的公告，小罗登被留在了那里，他也发出了自己的信息。 “我很好，”他写道。 '我希望你很好。我希望妈妈一切都好。小马很好。格雷带我去公园骑车。我可以慢跑。我遇见了之前骑车的小男孩。当他慢跑时，他哭了。我不哭。”罗登将这些信读给他的兄弟和简夫人听，简夫人对这些信很高兴。从男爵答应在学校照顾这个小伙子，他善良的妻子给了丽贝卡一张钞票，恳求她用它给她的小侄子买一份礼物。

One day followed another, and the ladies of the house passed their life in those calm pursuits and amusements which satisfy country ladies. Bells rang to meals and to prayers. The young ladies took exercise on the pianoforte every morning after breakfast, Rebecca giving them the benefit of her instruction. Then they put on thick shoes and walked in the park or shrubberies, or beyond the palings into the village, descending upon the cottages, with Lady Southdown’s medicine and tracts for the sick people there. Lady Southdown drove out in a pony-chaise, when Rebecca would take her place by the Dowager’s side and listen to her solemn talk with the utmost interest. She sang Handel and Haydn to the family of evenings, and engaged in a large piece of worsted work, as if she had been born to the business and as if this kind of life was to continue with her until she should sink to the grave in a polite old age, leaving regrets and a great quantity of consols behind her—as if there were not cares and duns, schemes, shifts, and poverty waiting outside the park gates, to pounce upon her when she issued into the world again.
日子一天天过去，家里的女人们就这样平静地追求和享受乡村妇女们所满意的生活。吃饭和祈祷时钟声响起。年轻的女士们每天早餐后都会在钢琴上练习，丽贝卡让她们受益匪浅。然后他们穿上厚鞋，在公园或灌木丛中散步，或者越过栅栏进入村庄，带着绍斯当夫人的药物和为那里的病人准备的小册子来到小屋。绍斯唐夫人驾着马车出去，丽贝卡则坐在太后身边，饶有兴趣地听她庄严的谈话。她晚上给家人唱亨德尔和海顿，并从事大量的精纺工作，仿佛她天生就是从事这一行的，似乎这种生活将伴随她继续下去，直到她在坟墓里沉沦。优雅的晚年，在她身后留下了遗憾和大量的安慰——仿佛公园大门外没有忧虑、催款、计划、轮班和贫困在等待着她，当她再次来到这个世界时，它们会突然袭击她。

‘It isn’t difficult to be a country gentleman’s wife,’ Rebecca thought. ‘I think I could be a good woman if I had five thousand a year. I could dawdle about in the nursery and count the apricots on the wall. I could water plants in a green-house and pick off dead leaves from the geraniums. I could ask old women about their rheumatisms and order half-a-crown’s worth of soup for the poor. I shouldn’t miss it much, out of five thousand a year. I could even drive out ten miles to dine at a neighbour’s, and dress in the fashions of the year before last. I could go to church and keep awake in the great family pew, or go to sleep behind the curtains, with my veil down, if I only had practice. I could pay everybody, if I had but the money. This is what the conjurors here pride themselves upon doing. They look down with pity upon us miserable sinners who have none. They think themselves generous if they give our children a five-pound note, and us contemptible if we are without one.’ And who knows but Rebecca was right in her speculations—and that it was only a question of money and fortune which made the difference between her and an honest woman? If you take temptations into account, who is to say that he is better than his neighbour? A comfortable career of prosperity, if it does not make people honest, at least keeps them so. An alderman coming from a turtle feast will not step out of his carnage to steal a leg of mutton; but put him to starve, and see if he will not purloin a loaf. Becky consoled herself by so balancing the chances and equalizing the distribution of good and evil in the world.
“做一个乡村绅士的妻子并不难，”丽贝卡想。 “我想，如果我每年有五千块钱，我就能成为一个好女人。”我可以在苗圃里闲逛，数墙上的杏子。我可以给温室里的植物浇水，摘下天竺葵的枯叶。我可以向老妇人询问风湿病的情况，还可以为穷人点半克朗的汤。我不应该太怀念它，每年五千个。我什至可以开车十英里去邻居家吃饭，穿前年流行的衣服。如果我有练习的话，我可以去教堂，在大家庭长椅上保持清醒，或者在窗帘后面睡觉，放下面纱。如果我有钱的话，我可以付给所有人。这就是这里的魔术师们引以为傲的事情。他们怜悯地瞧不起我们这些一无所有的可怜罪人。如果他们给我们的孩子一张五英镑的钞票，他们就认为自己很慷慨，而如果我们没有一张五英镑的钞票，我们就显得可鄙了。”谁知道呢，但丽贝卡的猜测是对的——这只是一个金钱和财富的问题，而这只是一个金钱和财富的问题。她和老实人有什么区别？如果考虑到诱惑，谁能说他比他的邻居更好呢？一份舒适而繁荣的职业，即使不能使人们变得诚实，至少也能让他们保持诚实。吃完海龟宴的市议员不会走出大屠杀去偷一条羊腿；但让他挨饿，看看他是否会偷面包。贝基通过这样平衡机会并平衡世界上善恶的分配来安慰自己。

The old haunts, the old fields and woods, the copses, ponds, and gardens, the rooms of the old house where she had spent a couple of years seven years ago, were all carefully revisited by her. She had been young there, or comparatively so, for she forgot the time when she ever WAS young—but she remembered her thoughts and feelings seven years back and contrasted them with those which she had at present, now that she had seen the world, and lived with great people, and raised herself far beyond her original humble station.
七年前的故地、旧田野、树林、小树林、池塘、花园，还有她住过几年的老房子的房间，都被她仔细地重温了一遍。她在那里很年轻，或者说比较年轻，因为她忘记了自己年轻时的时光——但她记得七年前的想法和感受，并将它们与她现在的想法和感受进行了对比，现在她已经见过了这个世界，与伟大的人一起生活，使自己远远超出了原来卑微的地位。

‘I have passed beyond it, because I have brains,’ Becky thought, ‘and almost all the rest of the world are fools. I could not go back and consort with those people now, whom I used to meet in my father’s studio. Lords come up to my door with stars and garters, instead of poor artists with screws of tobacco in their pockets. I have a gentleman for my husband, and an Earl’s daughter for my sister, in the very house where I was little better than a servant a few years ago. But am I much better to do now in the world than I was when I was the poor painter’s daughter and wheedled the grocer round the corner for sugar and tea? Suppose I had married Francis who was so fond of me—I couldn’t have been much poorer than I am now. Heigho! I wish I could exchange my position in society, and all my relations for a snug sum in the Three Per Cent. Consols”; for so it was that Becky felt the Vanity of human affairs, and it was in those securities that she would have liked to cast anchor.
“我已经超越了它，因为我有大脑，”贝基想，“而世界上几乎所有其他人都是傻瓜。”我现在无法回去与那些我曾经在父亲的工作室里见过的人交往。贵族们带着星星和吊袜带来到我家门口，而不是口袋里装着烟草螺丝的可怜艺术家。我的丈夫是一位绅士，姐姐是一位伯爵的女儿，就在几年前我还只是个仆人的房子里。但我现在在这个世界上的表现是否比我还是那个贫穷画家的女儿时，在街角的杂货店哄骗糖和茶时要好得多呢？假设我嫁给了非常喜欢我的弗朗西斯——我不可能比现在穷多少。嘿嘿！我希望我能用我在社会上的地位和我所有的关系来换取百分之三的一笔可观的钱。控制台”；因为正是如此，贝基感受到了人类事务的虚荣，而她希望将锚定在这些安全感上。

It may, perhaps, have struck her that to have been honest and humble, to have done her duty, and to have marched straightforward on her way, would have brought her as near happiness as that path by which she was striving to attain it. But—just as the children at Queen’s Crawley went round the room where the body of their father lay—if ever Becky had these thoughts, she was accustomed to walk round them and not look in. She eluded them and despised them—or at least she was committed to the other path from which retreat was now impossible. And for my part I believe that remorse is the least active of all a man’s moral senses—the very easiest to be deadened when wakened, and in some never wakened at all. We grieve at being found out and at the idea of shame or punishment, but the mere sense of wrong makes very few people unhappy in Vanity Fair.
也许她突然意识到，诚实、谦虚、尽职尽责、笔直地走在自己的道路上，会给她带来与她努力获得幸福的道路一样的幸福。但是——就像克劳利女王学院的孩子们绕着他们父亲尸体所在的房间走来走去一样——如果贝基有过这些想法，她也习惯绕着他们走而不往里看。她躲避他们并鄙视他们——或者至少她决心走另一条路，现在已经不可能撤退了。就我而言，我相信悔恨是一个人所有道德感中最不活跃的一种——当被唤醒时最容易被麻痹，而对于某些人来说，悔恨根本就从未被唤醒过。我们对被发现以及羞耻或惩罚感到悲伤，但在《名利场》中，仅仅因为错误的感觉就很少有人感到不高兴。

So Rebecca, during her stay at Queen’s Crawley, made as many friends of the Mammon of Unrighteousness as she could possibly bring under control. Lady Jane and her husband bade her farewell with the warmest demonstrations of good-will. They looked forward with pleasure to the time when, the family house in Gaunt Street being repaired and beautified, they were to meet again in London. Lady Southdown made her up a packet of medicine and sent a letter by her to the Rev. Lawrence Grills, exhorting that gentleman to save the brand who ‘honoured’ the letter from the burning. Pitt accompanied them with four horses in the carriage to Mudbury, having sent on their baggage in a cart previously, accompanied with loads of game.
因此，丽贝卡在女王克劳利逗留期间，尽可能多地结交了不义财神的朋友，以控制住不义的财神。简女士和她的丈夫以最热烈的善意向她告别。他们高兴地盼望着冈特街的家宅修葺美化后，他们能在伦敦再次相聚。索斯唐夫人给她配了一包药，并写了一封信给劳伦斯·格里尔斯牧师，劝告这位绅士拯救“尊重”这封信的品牌免遭焚烧。皮特用四匹马陪同他们乘坐马车前往穆德伯里，之前他已经用马车运送了他们的行李，并伴随着大量的猎物。

‘How happy you will be to see your darling little boy again!’ Lady Crawley said, taking leave of her kinswoman.
“再次见到你亲爱的小男孩，你会多么高兴！”克劳利夫人向她的亲戚告别时说道。

‘Oh so happy!’ said Rebecca, throwing up the green eyes. She was immensely happy to be free of the place, and yet loath to go. Queen’s Crawley was abominably stupid, and yet the air there was somehow purer than that which she had been accustomed to breathe. Everybody had been dull, but had been kind in their way. ‘It is all the influence of a long course of Three Per Cents,’ Becky said to herself, and was right very likely.
“哦，太高兴了！”丽贝卡扬起绿色的眼睛说道。她非常高兴能够离开这个地方，但又不愿意离开。皇后克劳利愚蠢得令人厌恶，但那里的空气却比她平时呼吸的空气还要纯净。每个人都很迟钝，但都以自己的方式友善。 “这都是百分之三的长期影响的结果，”贝基对自己说，而且很可能是对的。

However, the London lamps flashed joyfully as the stage rolled into Piccadilly, and Briggs had made a beautiful fire in Curzon Street, and little Rawdon was up to welcome back his papa and mamma.
然而，当舞台驶入皮卡迪利大街时，伦敦的灯光欢快地闪烁着，布里格斯在柯松街生起了美丽的篝火，小罗登准备迎接他爸爸和妈妈的归来。

Chapter XLII
第四十二章


Which Treats of the Osborne Family
奥斯本家族的待遇

Considerable time has elapsed since we have seen our respectable friend, old Mr. Osborne of Russell Square. He has not been the happiest of mortals since last we met him. Events have occurred which have not improved his temper, and in more in stances than one he has not been allowed to have his own way. To be thwarted in this reasonable desire was always very injurious to the old gentleman; and resistance became doubly exasperating when gout, age, loneliness, and the force of many disappointments combined to weigh him down. His stiff black hair began to grow quite white soon after his son’s death; his-face grew redder; his hands trembled more and more as he poured out his glass of port wine. He led his clerks a dire life in the City: his family at home were not much happier. I doubt if Rebecca, whom we have seen piously praying for Consols, would have exchanged her poverty and the dare-devil excitement and chances of her life for Osborne’s money and the humdrum gloom which enveloped him. He had proposed for Miss Swartz, but had been rejected scornfully by the partisans of that lady, who married her to a young sprig of Scotch nobility. He was a man to have married a woman out of low life and bullied her dreadfully afterwards; but no person presented herself suitable to his taste, and, instead, he tyrannized over his unmarried daughter, at home. She had a fine carriage and fine horses and sat at the head of a table loaded with the grandest plate. She had a cheque-book, a prize footman to follow her when she walked, unlimited credit, and bows and compliments from all the tradesmen, and all the appurtenances of an heiress; but she spent a woeful time. The little charity-girls at the Foundling, the sweeperess at the crossing, the poorest underkitchen-maid in the servants’ hall, was happy compared to that unfortunate and now middle-aged young lady.
自从我们见到我们尊敬的朋友、罗素广场的老奥斯本先生以来，已经过去了相当长的时间了。自从我们上次见到他以来，他并不是最幸福的凡人。发生了一些事情并没有改善他的脾气，而且在很多情况下他都不被允许为所欲为。如果这种合理的愿望遭到挫败，对老绅士来说总是非常有害的。当痛风、年龄、孤独和许多失望的力量结合在一起压垮他时，他的抵抗变得更加令人恼火。儿子死后不久，他那僵硬的黑发就开始变白。他的脸更红了。当他倒出一杯波特酒时，他的手越来越颤抖。他在金融城带领他的职员过着悲惨的生活：他在家里的家人也没有多少幸福。我怀疑，我们看到的丽贝卡虔诚地为康索尔斯祈祷，她是否会用她的贫困、勇敢的兴奋和生活的机会来换取奥斯本的金钱和笼罩着他的单调阴郁。他向斯沃茨小姐求婚，但被那位女士的支持者轻蔑地拒绝了，后者将她嫁给了一位年轻的苏格兰贵族。他是一个男人，娶了一个出身卑微的女人，然后又狠狠地欺负她；但没有一个人能合他的口味，他反而在家里对未婚的女儿施暴。她有一辆好车和好马，坐在一张摆着最豪华盘子的桌子的最前面。她有一本支票簿，一个走路时跟随她的优秀男仆，无限的信用，所有商人的鞠躬和赞美，以及女继承人的所有附属品；但她度过了一段痛苦的时光。 弃儿院里的慈善小姑娘、路口的清扫女工、仆人大厅里最穷的厨房女佣，与那位不幸的中年年轻女士相比，已经很幸福了。

Frederick Bullock, Esq., of the house of Bullock, Hulker, and Bullock, had married Maria Osborne, not without a great deal of difficulty and grumbling on Mr. Bullock’s part. George being dead and cut out of his father’s will, Frederick insisted that the half of the old gentleman’s property should be settled upon his Maria, and indeed, for a long time, refused, ‘to come to the scratch’ (it was Mr. Frederick’s own expression) on any other terms. Osborne said Fred had agreed to take his daughter with twenty thousand, and he should bind himself to no more. ‘Fred might take it, and welcome, or leave it, and go and be hanged.’ Fred, whose hopes had been raised when George had been disinherited, thought himself infamously swindled by the old merchant, and for some time made as if he would break off the match altogether. Osborne withdrew his account from Bullock and Hulker’s, went on ‘Change with a horsewhip which he swore he would lay across the back of a certain scoundrel that should be nameless, and demeaned himself in his usual violent manner. Jane Osborne condoled with her sister Maria during this family feud. ‘I always told you, Maria, that it was your money he loved and not you,’ she said, soothingly.
布洛克、绿巨人和布洛克家族的弗雷德里克·布洛克先生与玛丽亚·奥斯本结婚，布洛克先生遇到了很大的困难和牢骚。乔治死后，他父亲的遗嘱中不再有腓特烈的遗嘱，腓特烈坚持认为老绅士的一半财产应归他的玛丽亚所有，事实上，很长一段时间，腓特烈都拒绝“从头开始”（这是乔治先生的说法）。弗雷德里克自己的表达）任何其他条款。奥斯本说弗雷德已经同意带着两万美元带着他的女儿，他不应该再受任何约束。 “弗雷德可能会接受它，并欢迎，或者离开它，然后去被绞死。”当乔治被剥夺继承权时，弗雷德的希望就被提高了，他认为自己被老商人臭名昭著地欺骗了，有一段时间，他假装自己是在欺骗自己。会完全中断比赛。奥斯本从布洛克和浩克的账户中撤回了自己的说法，继续“改变”，他发誓要把马鞭打在某个无名恶棍的背上，并以他一贯的暴力方式贬低了自己。简·奥斯本在这场家庭不和中向她的妹妹玛丽亚表示哀悼。 “我总是告诉你，玛丽亚，他爱的是你的钱，而不是你，”她安慰地说。

‘He selected me and my money at any rate; he didn’t choose you and yours,’ replied Maria, tossing up her head.
“无论如何，他选择了我和我的钱； “他没有选择你和你的家人。”玛丽亚抬起头回答道。

The rapture was, however, only temporary. Fred’s father and senior partners counselled him to take Maria, even with the twenty thousand settled, half down, and half at the death of Mr. Osborne, with the chances of the further division of the property. So he ‘knuckled down,’ again to use his own phrase, and sent old Hulker with peaceable overtures to Osborne. It was his father, he said, who would not hear of the match, and had made the difficulties; he was most anxious to keep the engagement. The excuse was sulkily accepted by Mr. Osborne. Hulker and Bullock were a high family of the City aristocracy, and connected with the ‘nobs’ at the West End. It was something for the old man to be able to say, ‘My son, sir, of the house of Hulker, Bullock, and Co., sir; my daughter’s cousin, Lady Mary Mango, sir, daughter of the Right Hon. The Earl of Castlemouldy.’ In his imagination he saw his house peopled by the ‘nobs.’ So he forgave young Bullock and consented that the marriage should take place.
然而，这种狂喜只是暂时的。弗雷德的父亲和高级合伙人建议他带着玛丽亚，即使两万财产已经安顿下来，一半是首付，一半是在奥斯本先生去世后进行的，并有机会进一步分割财产。所以他再次用他自己的话说，“屈服了”，并以和平的姿态派老浩克去见奥斯本。他说，是他的父亲不愿意听到这桩婚事，并且制造了麻烦。他最渴望维持婚约。奥斯本先生闷闷不乐地接受了这个借口。浩克和布洛克是伦敦金融城的贵族家庭，与西区的“贵族”有联系。对于老人来说，能够说：“先生，我的儿子，来自浩克、布洛克及其公司，先生；”我女儿的表弟，玛丽·芒果夫人，先生，阁下的女儿。卡斯莫迪伯爵。”在他的想象中，他看到自己的房子里住满了“贵族”。因此，他原谅了年轻的布洛克，并同意举行婚礼。

It was a grand affair—the bridegroom’s relatives giving the breakfast, their habitations being near St. George’s, Hanover Square, where the business took place. The ‘nobs of the West End’ were invited, and many of them signed the book. Mr. Mango and Lady Mary Mango were there, with the dear young Gwendoline and Guinever Mango as bridesmaids; Colonel Bludyer of the Dragoon Guards (eldest son of the house of Bludyer Brothers, Mincing Lane), another cousin of the bridegroom, and the Honourable Mrs. Bludyer; the Honourable George Boulter, Lord Levant’s son, and his lady, Miss Mango that was; Lord Viscount Castletoddy; Honourable James McMull and Mrs. McMull (formerly Miss Swartz); and a host of fashionables, who have all married into Lombard Street and done a great deal to ennoble Cornhill.
这是一件盛大的事情——新郎的亲戚们提供早餐，他们的住所靠近汉诺威广场的圣乔治教堂，也是婚礼举行的地方。 “伦敦西区的达官贵人”被邀请，其中许多人在这本书上签名。芒果先生和玛丽·芒果女士也在场，伴娘是亲爱的年轻的格温多琳和吉尼弗·芒果。龙骑兵卫队的布卢迪尔上校（明辛巷布卢迪尔兄弟家族的长子），新郎的另一个表弟，以及尊敬的布卢迪尔夫人；莱万特勋爵的儿子乔治·博尔特阁下和他的夫人芒果小姐；卡斯尔托迪子爵勋爵；詹姆斯·麦克穆尔阁下和麦克穆尔夫人（原斯沃茨小姐）；还有一大批时尚人士，他们都嫁入了朗伯德街，为康希尔的高贵做出了巨大贡献。

The young couple had a house near Berkeley Square and a small villa at Roehampton, among the banking colony there. Fred was considered to have made rather a mesalliance by the ladies of his family, whose grandfather had been in a Charity School, and who were allied through the husbands with some of the best blood in England. And Maria was bound, by superior pride and great care in the composition of her visiting-book, to make up for the defects of birth, and felt it her duty to see her father and sister as little as possible.
这对年轻夫妇在伯克利广场附近有一栋房子，在罗汉普顿的银行聚集区有一栋小别墅。弗雷德被他家里的女士们认为是一种近亲联姻，他们的祖父曾在一所慈善学校就读，而且他们通过拥有英格兰最优秀血统的丈夫结盟。玛丽亚出于优越的自豪感，并且在写她的探访簿时非常小心，她必须弥补出生的缺陷，并认为她有责任尽可能少地见到她的父亲和妹妹。

That she should utterly break with the old man, who had still so many scores of thousand pounds to give away, is absurd to suppose. Fred Bullock would never allow her to do that. But she was still young and incapable of hiding her feelings; and by inviting her papa and sister to her third-rate parties, and behaving very coldly to them when they came, and by avoiding Russell Square, and indiscreetly begging her father to quit that odious vulgar place, she did more harm than all Frederick’s diplomacy could repair, and perilled her chance of her inheritance like a giddy heedless creature as she was.
她应该与那位老人彻底决裂，因为他还有那么多几千英镑可以捐献，这种想法是荒谬的。弗雷德·布洛克永远不会允许她这样做。但她还年轻，无法掩饰自己的感情；邀请她的爸爸和妹妹参加她的三流聚会，当他们来的时候对他们表现得非常冷淡，避开罗素广场，轻率地恳求她的父亲离开那个可憎的粗俗地方，她比腓特烈的所有外交政策造成的伤害更大无法修复，却像一个轻率的、粗心的生物一样危及了她继承遗产的机会。

‘So Russell Square is not good enough for Mrs. Maria, hay?’ said the old gentleman, rattling up the carriage windows as he and his daughter drove away one night from Mrs. Frederick Bullock’s, after dinner. ‘So she invites her father and sister to a second day’s dinner (if those sides, or ontrys, as she calls ‘em, weren’t served yesterday, I’m d—d), and to meet City folks and littery men, and keeps the Earls and the Ladies, and the Honourables to herself. Honourables? Damn Honourables. I am a plain British merchant I am, and could buy the beggarly hounds over and over. Lords, indeed!— why, at one of her swarreys I saw one of ‘em speak to a dam fiddler —a fellar I despise. And they won’t come to Russell Square, won’t they? Why, I’ll lay my life I’ve got a better glass of wine, and pay a better figure for it, and can show a handsomer service of silver, and can lay a better dinner on my mahogany, than ever they see on theirs—the cringing, sneaking, stuck-up fools. Drive on quick, James: I want to get back to Russell Square—ha, ha!’ and he sank back into the corner with a furious laugh. With such reflections on his own superior merit, it was the custom of the old gentleman not unfrequently to console himself.
“这么说，罗素广场对玛丽亚夫人来说不够好，嘿？”老先生说，一天晚上，晚饭后，他和女儿开车离开弗雷德里克·布洛克夫人家，他把马车车窗敲得嘎嘎作响。 “所以她邀请她的父亲和妹妹参加第二天的晚餐（如果昨天没有供应这些配菜，或者她所说的ontrys，我就很糟糕），并会见城里的人和乱扔垃圾的人，并把伯爵、女士和尊贵的人留给自己。尊敬的？该死的贵人。我是一个普通的英国商人，我可以一次又一次地购买乞丐猎犬。诸位大人，确实如此！——为什么，在她的一次演讲中，我看到他们中的一个对一个水坝小提琴手说话——一个我鄙视的家伙。他们不会来罗素广场，不是吗？为什么，我愿意用我的生命来喝一杯更好的酒，并为此付出更好的代价，并且可以展示更漂亮的银器服务，并且可以在我的桃花心木上提供比他们见过的更好的晚餐他们的——那些畏首畏尾、偷偷摸摸、自以为是的傻瓜。快点吧，詹姆斯：我想回到罗素广场——哈，哈！”说着他狂笑着坐回角落里。老先生这样反思自己的优越优点，常常会自我安慰。

Jane Osborne could not but concur in these opinions respecting her sister’s conduct; and when Mrs. Frederick’s first-born, Frederick Augustus Howard Stanley Devereux Bullock, was born, old Osborne, who was invited to the christening and to be godfather, contented himself with sending the child a gold cup, with twenty guineas inside it for the nurse. ‘That’s more than any of your Lords will give, I’LL warrant,’ he said and refused to attend at the ceremony.
简·奥斯本不得不同意这些观点，尊重她姐姐的行为。当弗雷德里克夫人的长子弗雷德里克·奥古斯都·霍华德·斯坦利·德弗罗·布洛克出生时，老奥斯本受邀参加洗礼并担任教父，只给了孩子一个金杯，里面有二十几尼，作为孩子的礼物。护士。 “我保证，这比你们任何一位上议院议员所能给予的都多，”他说，并拒绝参加仪式。

The splendour of the gift, however, caused great satisfaction to the house of Bullock. Maria thought that her father was very much pleased with her, and Frederick augured the best for his little son and heir.
然而，这份精美的礼物让布洛克家族非常满意。玛丽亚认为她的父亲对她非常满意，而腓特烈则为他的小儿子和继承人预示着最好的结果。

One can fancy the pangs with which Miss Osborne in her solitude in Russell Square read the Morning Post, where her sister’s name occurred every now and then, in the articles headed ‘Fashionable Reunions,’ and where she had an opportunity of reading a description of Mrs. F. Bullock’s costume, when presented at the drawing room by Lady Frederica Bullock. Jane’s own life, as we have said, admitted of no such grandeur. It was an awful existence. She had to get up of black winter’s mornings to make breakfast for her scowling old father, who would have turned the whole house out of doors if his tea had not been ready at half-past eight. She remained silent opposite to him, listening to the urn hissing, and sitting in tremor while the parent read his paper and consumed his accustomed portion of muffins and tea. At half-past nine he rose and went to the City, and she was almost free till dinner-time, to make visitations in the kitchen and to scold the servants; to drive abroad and descend upon the tradesmen, who were prodigiously respectful; to leave her cards and her papa’s at the great glum respectable houses of their City friends; or to sit alone in the large drawing-room, expecting visitors; and working at a huge piece of worsted by the fire, on the sofa, hard by the great Iphigenia clock, which ticked and tolled with mournful loudness in the dreary room. The great glass over the mantelpiece, faced by the other great console glass at the opposite end of the room, increased and multiplied between them the brown Holland bag in which the chandelier hung, until you saw these brown Holland bags fading away in endless perspectives, and this apartment of Miss Osborne’s seemed the centre of a system of drawing-rooms. When she removed the cordovan leather from the grand piano and ventured to play a few notes on it, it sounded with a mournful sadness, startling the dismal echoes of the house. George’s picture was gone, and laid upstairs in a lumber-room in the garret; and though there was a consciousness of him, and father and daughter often instinctively knew that they were thinking of him, no mention was ever made of the brave and once darling son.
人们可以想象奥斯本小姐在罗素广场孤独地读《晨报》时的痛苦，《晨报》的标题为“时尚聚会”的文章中时不时出现她姐姐的名字，她有机会读到一篇关于“时尚聚会”的文章。 F.布洛克夫人的服装，由弗雷德丽卡·布洛克夫人在客厅展示。正如我们所说，简自己的生活并没有如此宏伟。这是一个可怕的存在。她必须在黑色冬天的早晨起床，为愁眉苦脸的老父亲做早餐，如果八点半茶还没准备好，他会把整个房子都赶出去。她在他对面保持沉默，听着瓮的嘶嘶声，当家长读他的论文并吃掉他惯常吃的松饼和茶时，她颤抖地坐着。九点半，他起身去了城里，而她几乎在晚饭时间之前都有空，可以去厨房探望，责骂仆人。驱赶出国，袭击那些非常恭敬的商人；把她和她爸爸的名片留在他们城里朋友们阴沉而受人尊敬的大房子里；或者独自坐在大客厅里等待访客；在沙发上，炉火旁，在巨大的伊菲革涅亚钟前拼命工作，在这沉闷的房间里，钟声滴答作响，发出悲伤的响声。壁炉架上的大玻璃，面对着房间另一端的另一块巨大的控制台玻璃，在它们之间增加和增加了悬挂着枝形吊灯的棕色荷兰包，直到你看到这些棕色荷兰包在无尽的视野中消失，奥斯本小姐的这套公寓似乎是一系列客厅的中心。 当她把三角钢琴上的科尔多瓦皮革取下来，大胆地在上面弹奏几个音符时，钢琴的声音带着一种悲凉的悲伤，惊动了房子里阴郁的回声。乔治的照片不见了，放在楼上阁楼的一间杂物间里。尽管人们意识到了他，而且父女俩常常本能地知道他们在想念他，但却从未提及过这个勇敢而曾经亲爱的儿子。

At five o’clock Mr. Osborne came back to his dinner, which he and his daughter took in silence (seldom broken, except when he swore and was savage, if the cooking was not to his liking), or which they shared twice in a month with a party of dismal friends of Osborne’s rank and age. Old Dr. Gulp and his lady from Bloomsbury Square; old Mr. Frowser, the attorney, from Bedford Row, a very great man, and from his business, hand-in-glove with the ‘nobs at the West End”; old Colonel Livermore, of the Bombay Army, and Mrs. Livermore, from Upper Bedford Place; old Sergeant Toffy and Mrs. Toffy; and sometimes old Sir Thomas Coffin and Lady Coffin, from Bedford Square. Sir Thomas was celebrated as a hanging judge, and the particular tawny port was produced when he dined with Mr. Osborne.
五点钟，奥斯本先生回来吃晚饭，他和他的女儿默默地吃晚饭（很少打破，除非他发誓和野蛮，如果烹饪不合他的胃口），或者他们在同一时间共进了两次晚饭。与奥斯本级别和年龄相同的一群忧郁的朋友度过了一个月。布卢姆斯伯里广场的老古普博士和他的夫人；老弗劳瑟先生是律师，来自贝德福德街，是一位非常伟大的人，在他的生意上，与“西区的贵族”密切相关。孟买陆军的老利弗莫尔上校和来自上贝德福德广场的利弗莫尔夫人；老托菲警官和托菲夫人；有时还有来自贝德福德广场的老托马斯·科芬爵士和科芬夫人。托马斯爵士因担任绞刑法官而受到赞誉，而这种特殊的黄褐色波特酒就是在他与奥斯本先生共进晚餐时酿制的。

These people and their like gave the pompous Russell Square merchant pompous dinners back again. They had solemn rubbers of whist, when they went upstairs after drinking, and their carriages were called at half past ten. Many rich people, whom we poor devils are in the habit of envying, lead contentedly an existence like that above described. Jane Osborne scarcely ever met a man under sixty, and almost the only bachelor who appeared in their society was Mr. Smirk, the celebrated ladies’ doctor.
这些人和他们的同类再次给浮夸的罗素广场商人带来了浮夸的晚宴。当他们喝完酒上楼时，他们会喝庄严的惠斯特牌，十点半他们的马车就被叫来了。许多富人，我们这些穷鬼都习惯于羡慕他们，却心满意足地过着上述那样的生活。简·奥斯本几乎从未见过六十岁以下的男人，几乎唯一出现在他们社交场合的单身汉就是著名的女医生斯默克先生。

I can’t say that nothing had occurred to disturb the monotony of this awful existence: the fact is, there had been a secret in poor Jane’s life which had made her father more savage and morose than even nature, pride, and over-feeding had made him. This secret was connected with Miss Wirt, who had a cousin an artist, Mr. Smee, very celebrated since as a portrait-painter and R.A., but who once was glad enough to give drawing lessons to ladies of fashion. Mr. Smee has forgotten where Russell Square is now, but he was glad enough to visit it in the year 1818, when Miss Osborne had instruction from him.
我不能说没有发生任何事情来打扰这种可怕的生活的单调：事实是，可怜的简的生活中有一个秘密，使她的父亲比本性、骄傲和过度喂养更加野蛮和阴郁。造就了他。这个秘密与 Wirt 小姐有关，她有一个艺术家表弟 Smee 先生，自那时起作为肖像画家和 R.A. 就非常有名，但他曾经很乐意为时尚女士们上绘画课。斯密先生已经忘记了罗素广场现在在哪里，但他很高兴在 1818 年参观了那里，当时奥斯本小姐得到了他的指示。

Smee (formerly a pupil of Sharpe of Frith Street, a dissolute, irregular, and unsuccessful man, but a man with great knowledge of his art) being the cousin of Miss Wirt, we say, and introduced by her to Miss Osborne, whose hand and heart were still free after various incomplete love affairs, felt a great attachment for this lady, and it is believed inspired one in her bosom. Miss Wirt was the confidante of this intrigue. I know not whether she used to leave the room where the master and his pupil were painting, in order to give them an opportunity for exchanging those vows and sentiments which cannot be uttered advantageously in the presence of a third party; I know not whether she hoped that should her cousin succeed in carrying off the rich merchant’s daughter, he would give Miss Wirt a portion of the wealth which she had enabled him to win— all that is certain is that Mr. Osborne got some hint of the transaction, came back from the City abruptly, and entered the drawing-room with his bamboo cane; found the painter, the pupil, and the companion all looking exceedingly pale there; turned the former out of doors with menaces that he would break every bone in his skin, and half an hour afterwards dismissed Miss Wirt likewise, kicking her trunks down the stairs, trampling on her bandboxes, and shaking his fist at her hackney coach as it bore her away.
斯密（以前是弗里斯街夏普的学生，一个放荡、不守规矩、不成功的人，但他的艺术知识渊博）是沃特小姐的表弟，我们说，并由她介绍给奥斯本小姐，后者的手在经历了各种不完整的恋爱之后，心灵仍然自由，对这位女士产生了很大的依恋，相信也激发了她的内心。沃特小姐是这场阴谋的红颜知己。我不知道她是否曾经离开师徒画画的房间，以便给他们一个机会交换那些在第三者在场时不能有利地说出的誓言和情感；我不知道她是否希望，如果她的表弟成功夺走了富商的女儿，他会将她帮助他赢得的财富的一部分分给沃特小姐——唯一可以肯定的是，奥斯本先生得到了一些暗示。交易完毕，猛地从城里回来，拄着竹杖进了客厅。发现画家、学生和同伴都面色苍白。半小时后，沃特小姐也同样被解雇了，她把她的箱子踢下楼梯，践踏她的乐队箱，并向她的出租马车挥舞着拳头。把她带走了。

Jane Osborne kept her bedroom for many days. She was not allowed to have a companion afterwards. Her father swore to her that she should not have a shilling of his money if she made any match without his concurrence; and as he wanted a woman to keep his house, he did not choose that she should marry, so that she was obliged to give up all projects with which Cupid had any share. During her papa’s life, then, she resigned herself to the manner of existence here described, and was content to be an old maid. Her sister, meanwhile, was having children with finer names every year and the intercourse between the two grew fainter continually. ‘Jane and I do not move in the same sphere of life,’ Mrs. Bullock said. ‘I regard her as a sister, of course’—which means—what does it mean when a lady says that she regards Jane as a sister?
简·奥斯本将她的卧室保留了很多天。此后她不被允许有同伴。她父亲向她发誓，如果她未经父亲同意就进行任何撮合，她就不会得到他一先令的钱。由于他想要一个女人来管理他的房子，所以他没有选择让她结婚，因此她不得不放弃丘比特参与的所有项目。那么，在她父亲的一生中，她就接受了这里所描述的生活方式，满足于做一个老处女。与此同时，她姐姐的孩子们的名字一年比一年好，两人之间的交往也日益淡化。 “简和我不在同一个生活领域，”布洛克夫人说。 “我当然把她当作妹妹”——这意味着——当一位女士说她把简当作妹妹时，这是什么意思？

It has been described how the Misses Dobbin lived with their father at a fine villa at Denmark Hill, where there were beautiful graperies and peach-trees which delighted little Georgy Osborne. The Misses Dobbin, who drove often to Brompton to see our dear Amelia, came sometimes to Russell Square too, to pay a visit to their old acquaintance Miss Osborne. I believe it was in consequence of the commands of their brother the Major in India (for whom their papa had a prodigious respect), that they paid attention to Mrs. George; for the Major, the godfather and guardian of Amelia’s little boy, still hoped that the child’s grandfather might be induced to relent towards him and acknowledge him for the sake of his son. The Misses Dobbin kept Miss Osborne acquainted with the state of Amelia’s affairs; how she was living with her father and mother; how poor they were; how they wondered what men, and such men as their brother and dear Captain Osborne, could find in such an insignificant little chit; how she was still, as heretofore, a namby-pamby milk-and-water affected creature—but how the boy was really the noblest little boy ever seen—for the hearts of all women warm towards young children, and the sourest spinster is kind to them.
据描述，多宾小姐和她们的父亲住在丹麦山的一栋精美别墅里，那里有美丽的葡萄树和桃树，让小乔治·奥斯本很高兴。多宾小姐经常开车去布朗普顿看望我们亲爱的阿米莉亚，有时也会来罗素广场拜访她们的老熟人奥斯本小姐。我相信，他们之所以关注乔治夫人，是因为他们在印度的兄弟少校（他们的爸爸对他怀有极大的敬意）的命令。因为少校，阿米莉亚小男孩的教父和监护人，仍然希望孩子的祖父能够为了他的儿子而对他心软并承认他。多宾小姐让奥斯本小姐随时了解阿米莉亚的事务状况。她与父母的生活如何；他们有多穷；他们多么想知道人们，像他们的兄弟和亲爱的奥斯本船长这样的人，能在如此微不足道的小纸片中找到什么？到目前为止，她仍然是一个可爱的、受牛奶和水影响的生物——但这个男孩确实是有史以来最高贵的小男孩——因为所有女人的心都对小孩子感到温暖，而最尖酸刻薄的老处女也很友善给他们。

One day, after great entreaties on the part of the Misses Dobbin, Amelia allowed little George to go and pass a day with them at Denmark Hill—a part of which day she spent herself in writing to the Major in India. She congratulated him on the happy news which his sisters had just conveyed to her. She prayed for his prosperity and that of the bride he had chosen. She thanked him for a thousand thousand kind offices and proofs of stead fast friendship to her in her affliction. She told him the last news about little Georgy, and how he was gone to spend that very day with his sisters in the country. She underlined the letter a great deal, and she signed herself affectionately his friend, Amelia Osborne. She forgot to send any message of kindness to Lady O’Dowd, as her wont was—and did not mention Glorvina by name, and only in italics, as the Major’s BRIDE, for whom she begged blessings. But the news of the marriage removed the reserve which she had kept up towards him. She was glad to be able to own and feel how warmly and gratefully she regarded him—and as for the idea of being jealous of Glorvina (Glorvina, indeed!), Amelia would have scouted it, if an angel from heaven had hinted it to her. That night, when Georgy came back in the pony-carriage in which he rejoiced, and in which he was driven by Sir Wm. Dobbin’s old coachman, he had round his neck a fine gold chain and watch. He said an old lady, not pretty, had given it him, who cried and kissed him a great deal. But he didn’t like her. He liked grapes very much. And he only liked his mamma. Amelia shrank and started; the timid soul felt a presentiment of terror when she heard that the relations of the child’s father had seen him.
有一天，在多宾小姐的恳求下，阿米莉亚允许小乔治去丹麦山和她们一起度过一天——这一天她花了一部分时间给印度的少校写信。她祝贺他的姐妹们刚刚向她传达了这个好消息。她为他和他选择的新娘祈祷。她感谢他在她的苦难中对她提供了成千上万的善意的帮助和坚定的友谊。她告诉他有关小乔吉的最后消息，以及他如何去乡下和他的姐妹们一起度过这一天。她在信上画了很多字，并深情地在自己的朋友阿米莉亚·奥斯本上签名。她忘记向奥多德夫人传达任何善意的信息，就像她往常一样——也没有提到格洛维娜的名字，只用斜体字，作为少校的新娘，她为她祈求祝福。但结婚的消息解除了她对他一直保持的戒备。她很高兴能够承认并感受到她对他的热情和感激——至于嫉妒格洛维娜（确实是格洛维娜！），阿米莉亚会发现的，如果有来自天堂的天使暗示的话。她。那天晚上，当乔治乘坐他很高兴的小马车回来时，他是由威廉爵士驾驶的。多宾的老车夫，脖子上戴着一条精美的金链子和手表。他说是一位不漂亮的老太太送给他的，她哭着亲了他很多次。但他不喜欢她。他非常喜欢葡萄。而他只喜欢他的妈妈。阿米莉亚身体一缩，吓了一跳。当她听说孩子父亲的亲戚看到了他时，胆怯的灵魂感到了一种恐惧的预感。

Miss Osborne came back to give her father his dinner. He had made a good speculation in the City, and was rather in a good humour that day, and chanced to remark the agitation under which she laboured. ‘What’s the matter, Miss Osborne?’ he deigned to say.
奥斯本小姐回来给她父亲送晚饭。他在这座城市里做了很好的推测，那天心情相当好，并且偶然注意到她在工作中的焦躁不安。 “怎么了，奥斯本小姐？”他屈尊问道。

The woman burst into tears. ‘Oh, sir,’ she said, ‘I’ve seen little George. He is as beautiful as an angel—and so like him!’ The old man opposite to her did not say a word, but flushed up and began to tremble in every limb.
女人泪流满面。 “哦，先生，”她说，“我见过小乔治。”他像天使一样美丽——而且太像他了！”对面的老人一言不发，只是满脸通红，四肢开始颤抖。

Chapter XLIII
第四十三章


In Which the Reader Has to Double the Cape
读者必须将海角加倍

The astonished reader must be called upon to transport himself ten thousand miles to the military station of Bundlegunge, in the Madras division of our Indian empire, where our gallant old friends of the —th regiment are quartered under the command of the brave Colonel, Sir Michael O’Dowd. Time has dealt kindly with that stout officer, as it does ordinarily with men who have good stomachs and good tempers and are not perplexed over much by fatigue of the brain. The Colonel plays a good knife and fork at tiffin and resumes those weapons with great success at dinner. He smokes his hookah after both meals and puffs as quietly while his wife scolds him as he did under the fire of the French at Waterloo. Age and heat have not diminished the activity or the eloquence of the descendant of the Malonys and the Molloys. Her Ladyship, our old acquaintance, is as much at home at Madras as at Brussels in the cantonment as under the tents. On the march you saw her at the head of the regiment seated on a royal elephant, a noble sight. Mounted on that beast, she has been into action with tigers in the jungle, she has been received by native princes, who have welcomed her and Glorvina into the recesses of their zenanas and offered her shawls and jewels which it went to her heart to refuse. The sentries of all arms salute her wherever she makes her appearance, and she touches her hat gravely to their salutation. Lady O’Dowd is one of the greatest ladies in the Presidency of Madras—her quarrel with Lady Smith, wife of Sir Minos Smith the puisne judge, is still remembered by some at Madras, when the Colonel’s lady snapped her fingers in the Judge’s lady’s face and said SHE’D never walk behind ever a beggarly civilian. Even now, though it is five-and-twenty years ago, people remember Lady O’Dowd performing a jig at Government House, where she danced down two Aides-de-Camp, a Major of Madras cavalry, and two gentlemen of the Civil Service; and, persuaded by Major Dobbin, C.B., second in command of the —th, to retire to the supper-room, lassata nondum satiata recessit.
惊讶的读者一定会被要求将自己运送一万英里到我们印度帝国马德拉斯分区的本德尔冈格军事基地，我们英勇的第-团老朋友在勇敢的上校爵士的指挥下驻扎在那里。迈克尔·奥多德.时间对这位粗壮的军官很仁慈，就像对待那些胃口好、脾气好、不会因大脑疲劳而感到困惑的人一样。上校在午餐时使用了一把刀叉，并在晚餐时非常成功地恢复了这些武器。两顿饭后，他都抽着水烟，在妻子责骂他的时候，他静静地吸着水烟，就像他在滑铁卢的法军炮火下一样。年龄和炎热并没有削弱马洛尼家族和莫洛伊家族后裔的活力和口才。夫人，我们的老相识，无论是在马德拉斯还是在布鲁塞尔，无论是在军营还是在帐篷下，她都感到很自在。在行军中，你会看到她坐在军团的最前面，坐在一头皇家大象上，这是一个高贵的景象。骑在这头野兽上，她在丛林中与老虎作战，她受到了当地王子的接待，他们欢迎她和格洛维娜进入他们的泽纳纳斯的深处，并为她提供了披肩和珠宝，但她内心拒绝了这些。无论她出现在哪里，所有武装的哨兵都会向她敬礼，而她也庄重地触碰帽子以示敬意。奥多德夫人是马德拉斯总统府最伟大的女士之一——她与副法官米诺斯·史密斯爵士的妻子史密斯夫人的争吵至今仍被马德拉斯的一些人所记得，当时上校的夫人在法官夫人的房间里打响了响指。脸并说她永远不会走在一个乞讨的平民后面。 即使是现在，尽管已经是五年二十年前的事了，人们仍然记得奥多德夫人在总督府表演吉格舞，她在那里跳舞击败了两名副官、一名马德拉斯骑兵少校和两名民事绅士服务;在第 2 号的二号指挥官多宾少校 (C.B. Dobbin, C.B.) 的劝说下，他退到了晚餐室， lassata nondum satiata 休会。

Peggy O’Dowd is indeed the same as ever, kind in act and thought; impetuous in temper; eager to command; a tyrant over her Michael; a dragon amongst all the ladies of the regiment; a mother to all the young men, whom she tends in their sickness, defends in all their scrapes, and with whom Lady Peggy is immensely popular. But the Subalterns’ and Captains’ ladies (the Major is unmarried) cabal against her a good deal. They say that Glorvina gives herself airs and that Peggy herself is ill tolerably domineering. She interfered with a little congregation which Mrs. Kirk had got up and laughed the young men away from her sermons, stating that a soldier’s wife had no business to be a parson—that Mrs. Kirk would be much better mending her husband’s clothes; and, if the regiment wanted sermons, that she had the finest in the world, those of her uncle, the Dean. She abruptly put a termination to a flirtation which Lieutenant Stubble of the regiment had commenced with the Surgeon’s wife, threatening to come down upon Stubble for the money which he had borrowed from her (for the young fellow was still of an extravagant turn) unless he broke off at once and went to the Cape on sick leave. On the other hand, she housed and sheltered Mrs. Posky, who fled from her bungalow one night, pursued by her infuriate husband, wielding his second brandy bottle, and actually carried Posky through the delirium tremens and broke him of the habit of drinking, which had grown upon that officer, as all evil habits will grow upon men. In a word, in adversity she was the best of comforters, in good fortune the most troublesome of friends, having a perfectly good opinion of herself always and an indomitable resolution to have her own way.
佩吉·奥多德确实一如既往，行为和思想都很善良。脾气急躁；渴望指挥；对她的迈克尔是一个暴君；团里所有女士中的一条龙；她是所有年轻人的母亲，她在他们生病时照顾他们，在他们遭遇困境时保护他们，佩吉夫人非常受他们欢迎。但下级和上尉的女士们（少校未婚）却经常反对她。他们说格洛维娜摆架子，而佩吉本人则盛气凌人。她干扰了柯克夫人起床的一小群会众，嘲笑那些年轻人远离她的布道，她说士兵的妻子没有资格当牧师——柯克夫人最好修补她丈夫的衣服；而且，如果团里需要布道，她有世界上最好的布道者，那就是她叔叔院长的布道。她突然终止了团里的斯塔布尔中尉与外科医生妻子的调情，并威胁说要向斯塔布尔讨要他向她借的钱（因为这个年轻人还是个奢侈的人），除非他愿意。立刻中断了工作，去海角请病假。另一方面，她收容并庇护了波斯基夫人，有一天晚上，波斯基夫人从她的平房逃了出来，被她愤怒的丈夫追赶，挥舞着他的第二瓶白兰地，实际上，她带着波斯基度过了震颤性谵妄，并戒掉了他喝酒的习惯，正如所有邪恶的习惯都会在男人身上养成一样，这种习惯已经在那位军官身上养成了。总之，在逆境中她是最好的安慰者，在幸运时她是最麻烦的朋友，她总是对自己有很好的评价，并且有不屈不挠的决心，我行我素。

Among other points, she had made up her mind that Glorvina should marry our old friend Dobbin. Mrs. O’Dowd knew the Major’s expectations and appreciated his good qualities and the high character which he enjoyed in his profession. Glorvina, a very handsome, fresh-coloured, black-haired, blue-eyed young lady, who could ride a horse, or play a sonata with any girl out of the County Cork, seemed to be the very person destined to insure Dobbin’s happiness—much more than that poor good little weak-spur’ted Amelia, about whom he used to take on so.—‘Look at Glorvina enter a room,’ Mrs. O’Dowd would say, ‘and compare her with that poor Mrs. Osborne, who couldn’t say boo to a goose. She’d be worthy of you, Major—you’re a quiet man yourself, and want some one to talk for ye. And though she does not come of such good blood as the Malonys or Molloys, let me tell ye, she’s of an ancient family that any nobleman might be proud to marry into.’
除其他事项外，她已经决定格洛维娜应该嫁给我们的老朋友多宾。奥多德夫人了解少校的期望，并欣赏他在职业生涯中所享有的优良品质和高尚品格。格洛维娜，一位非常英俊、肤色鲜亮、黑发蓝眼的年轻女士，她会骑马，或与科克郡的任何女孩一起演奏奏鸣曲，似乎就是注定要确保多宾幸福的人——比那个可怜的、善良的、弱小的阿米莉亚要多得多，他过去常常这样对待她。——“看看格洛维娜走进一个房间，”奥多德夫人会说，“把她和那个可怜的夫人进行比较奥斯本不能对鹅说嘘。她配得上你，少校——你本身就是个安静的人，需要有人为你说话。虽然她的血统不如马洛尼家族或莫洛伊家族，但让我告诉你们，她出身于一个古老的家庭，任何贵族都会自豪地嫁给她。

But before she had come to such a resolution and determined to subjugate Major Dobbin by her endearments, it must be owned that Glorvina had practised them a good deal elsewhere. She had had a season in Dublin, and who knows how many in Cork, Killarney, and Mallow? She had flirted with all the marriageable officers whom the depots of her country afforded, and all the bachelor squires who seemed eligible. She had been engaged to be married a half-score times in Ireland, besides the clergyman at Bath who used her so ill. She had flirted all the way to Madras with the Captain and chief mate of the Ramchunder East Indiaman, and had a season at the Presidency with her brother and Mrs. O’Dowd, who was staying there, while the Major of the regiment was in command at the station. Everybody admired her there; everybody danced with her; but no one proposed who was worth the marrying—one or two exceedingly young subalterns sighed after her, and a beardless civilian or two, but she rejected these as beneath her pretensions—and other and younger virgins than Glorvina were married before her. There are women, and handsome women too, who have this fortune in life. They fall in love with the utmost generosity; they ride and walk with half the Army-list, though they draw near to forty, and yet the Misses O’Grady are the Misses O’Grady still: Glorvina persisted that but for Lady O’Dowd’s unlucky quarrel with the Judge’s lady, she would have made a good match at Madras, where old Mr. Chutney, who was at the head of the civil service (and who afterwards married Miss Dolby, a young lady only thirteen years of age who had just arrived from school in Europe), was just at the point of proposing to her.
但在她做出这样的决定并决定用她的爱意征服多宾少校之前，必须承认格罗维娜在其他地方已经练习过很多次了。她在都柏林度过了一个赛季，谁知道在科克、基拉尼和马洛度过了多少个赛季？她和她国家的仓库提供的所有适婚军官以及所有看起来符合条件的单身乡绅调情过。她在爱尔兰已经订婚过六次了，除了巴斯的牧师对她的虐待之外。她一路到马德拉斯，与拉姆亨德东印度号的船长兼大副调情，并与她的兄弟和奥多德夫人一起在总统职位上度过了一个季节，奥多德夫人就住在那里，而团少校则在总统府。指挥站。那里的每个人都钦佩她。每个人都和她一起跳舞；但没有人提议谁值得结婚——一两个非常年轻的下属在她身后叹息，还有一两个没有胡子的平民，但她拒绝了这些，因为她的自命不凡——而其他比格洛维娜更年轻的处女在她之前就结婚了。有女人，也有漂亮的女人，拥有这样的人生运气。他们爱上了极度的慷慨；尽管她们已年近四十，但她们还是和奥格雷迪小姐一样：格洛维娜坚持认为，要不是奥多德夫人与法官夫人发生了不幸的争吵，她在马德拉斯会很合适，老查特尼先生是公务员队伍的负责人（后来他娶了杜比小姐，一位刚从欧洲学校毕业的年轻女士，年仅十三岁），正要向她求婚。

Well, although Lady O’Dowd and Glorvina quarrelled a great number of times every day, and upon almost every conceivable subject—indeed, if Mick O’Dowd had not possessed the temper of an angel two such women constantly about his ears would have driven him out of his senses—yet they agreed between themselves on this point, that Glorvina should marry Major Dobbin, and were determined that the Major should have no rest until the arrangement was brought about. Undismayed by forty or fifty previous defeats, Glorvina laid siege to him. She sang Irish melodies at him unceasingly. She asked him so frequently and pathetically, Will ye come to the bower? that it is a wonder how any man of feeling could have resisted the invitation. She was never tired of inquiring, if Sorrow had his young days faded, and was ready to listen and weep like Desdemona at the stories of his dangers and his campaigns. It has been said that our honest and dear old friend used to perform on the flute in private; Glorvina insisted upon having duets with him, and Lady O’Dowd would rise and artlessly quit the room when the young couple were so engaged. Glorvina forced the Major to ride with her of mornings. The whole cantonment saw them set out and return. She was constantly writing notes over to him at his house, borrowing his books, and scoring with her great pencil-marks such passages of sentiment or humour as awakened her sympathy. She borrowed his horses, his servants, his spoons, and palanquin—no wonder that public rumour assigned her to him, and that the Major’s sisters in England should fancy they were about to have a sister-in-law.
好吧，虽然奥多德夫人和格洛维娜每天争吵很多次，几乎在所有可以想象的话题上争吵——事实上，如果米克·奥多德没有天使般的脾气，那么两个这样的女人经常在他耳边吵架，他就会被驱赶。但他们在这一点上达成了一致，即格洛维娜应该嫁给多宾少校，并决定少校在安排完成之前不得休息。格洛维娜并没有因为之前四十或五十次的失败而感到沮丧，而是围攻了他。她不停地对他唱着爱尔兰旋律。她如此频繁地、可怜兮兮地问他：“你愿意到凉亭来吗？”令人惊奇的是，任何有感情的人怎么会拒绝这个邀请。她乐此不疲地询问“悲伤”的年轻时光是否已逝去，并且准备好像苔丝狄蒙娜一样倾听他的危险和战役的故事并哭泣。据说，我们诚实而亲爱的老朋友曾经私下里吹过笛子；格洛维娜坚持要和他进行二重唱，当这对年轻夫妇如此忙碌时，奥多德夫人就会站起来，毫不做作地退出房间。格洛维娜强迫少校早上和她一起骑马。整个军营的人都看着他们出发和返回。她经常在他家里给他写便条，借他的书，并用她的大铅笔标记这些情感或幽默的段落，以唤醒她的同情心。她借了他的马、仆人、勺子和轿子——难怪公众谣言把她指派给他，少校在英国的姐妹们应该以为她们即将有一个嫂子了。

Dobbin, who was thus vigorously besieged, was in the meanwhile in a state of the most odious tranquillity. He used to laugh when the young fellows of the regiment joked him about Glorvina’s manifest attentions to him. ‘Bah!’ said he, ‘she is only keeping her hand in— she practises upon me as she does upon Mrs. Tozer’s piano, because it’s the most handy instrument in the station. I am much too battered and old for such a fine young lady as Glorvina.’ And so he went on riding with her, and copying music and verses into her albums, and playing at chess with her very submissively; for it is with these simple amusements that some officers in India are accustomed to while away their leisure moments, while others of a less domestic turn hunt hogs, and shoot snipes, or gamble and smoke cheroots, and betake themselves to brandy-and-water. As for Sir Michael O’Dowd, though his lady and her sister both urged him to call upon the Major to explain himself and not keep on torturing a poor innocent girl in that shameful way, the old soldier refused point-blank to have anything to do with the conspiracy. ‘Faith, the Major’s big enough to choose for himself,’ Sir Michael said; ‘he’ll ask ye when he wants ye”; or else he would turn the matter off jocularly, declaring that ‘Dobbin was too young to keep house, and had written home to ask lave of his mamma.’ Nay, he went farther, and in private communications with his Major would caution and rally him, crying, ‘Mind your oi, Dob, my boy, them girls is bent on mischief—me Lady has just got a box of gowns from Europe, and there’s a pink satin for Glorvina, which will finish ye, Dob, if it’s in the power of woman or satin to move ye.’
被如此猛烈围攻的多宾，此时却处于一种最令人厌恶的平静状态。当团里的年轻人拿格洛维娜对他的明显关注开玩笑时，他常常大笑。 “呸！”他说，“她只是把手放在里面——她在我身上练习，就像在托泽夫人的钢琴上练习一样，因为它是车站里最方便的乐器。对于格洛维娜这样一位优秀的年轻女士来说，我太疲惫太老了。”于是他继续和她一起骑马，把音乐和诗句抄进她的专辑里，非常顺从地和她下棋；但他还是把我的名字写进了她的专辑里。因为印度的一些军官习惯于用这些简单的娱乐来消磨闲暇时光，而另一些不那么内向的军官则打猎、射鹬、赌博、抽方头雪茄、喝白兰地和水。 。至于迈克尔·奥多德爵士，尽管他的女士和她的妹妹都敦促他向少校解释，不要继续以这种可耻的方式折磨一个可怜的无辜女孩，但这位老士兵断然拒绝有任何事情可以做。做阴谋。 “我相信，少校的势力足够大，可以为自己做出选择，”迈克尔爵士说道。 ‘当他想要你的时候，他会问你’；否则，他会开玩笑地结束这件事，宣称“多宾还太小，不能做家务，他已经写信回家询问他妈妈的情况。”不仅如此，他还走得更远，在与少校的私下交流中，他会警告并团结一致。他哭着说：“小心你的爱，多布，我的孩子，那些女孩们一心要恶作剧——我女士刚刚从欧洲买了一盒礼服，还有一件给格洛维娜的粉红色缎子，这将完成你，多布，如果它是的话。”用女人或缎子的力量来感动你们。

But the truth is, neither beauty nor fashion could conquer him. Our honest friend had but one idea of a woman in his head, and that one did not in the least resemble Miss Glorvina O’Dowd in pink satin. A gentle little woman in black, with large eyes and brown hair, seldom speaking, save when spoken to, and then in a voice not the least resembling Miss Glorvina’s—a soft young mother tending an infant and beckoning the Major up with a smile to look at him—a rosycheeked lass coming singing into the room in Russell Square or hanging on George Osborne’s arm, happy and loving—there was but this image that filled our honest Major’s mind, by day and by night, and reigned over it always. Very likely Amelia was not like the portrait the Major had formed of her: there was a figure in a book of fashions which his sisters had in England, and with which William had made away privately, pasting it into the lid of his desk, and fancying he saw some resemblance to Mrs. Osborne in the print, whereas I have seen it, and can vouch that it is but the picture of a high-waisted gown with an impossible doll’s face simpering over it—and, perhaps, Mr. Dobbin’s sentimental Amelia was no more like the real one than this absurd little print which he cherished. But what man in love, of us, is better informed?—or is he much happier when he sees and owns his delusion? Dobbin was under this spell. He did not bother his friends and the public much about his feelings, or indeed lose his natural rest or appetite on account of them. His head has grizzled since we saw him last, and a line or two of silver may be seen in the soft brown hair likewise. But his feelings are not in the least changed or oldened, and his love remains as fresh as a man’s recollections of boyhood are.
但事实是，美丽和时尚都无法征服他。我们诚实的朋友脑子里对女人只有一个想法，而且这个想法与穿着粉色缎子的格洛维娜·奥多德小姐一点也不像。一个温柔的小女人，穿着黑衣，长着大眼睛和棕色的头发，很少说话，除非有人说话，然后她的声音与格洛维娜小姐的声音一点也不相似——一个温柔的年轻母亲正在照顾一个婴儿，微笑着招呼少校过来。看看他——一个红润的姑娘唱着歌走进罗素广场的房间，或者挂在乔治·奥斯本的手臂上，快乐而充满爱意——只有这样一个形象，无论白天还是黑夜，都充满了我们诚实的少校的脑海，并始终占据着主导地位。阿米莉亚很可能不像少校为她塑造的肖像：他的姐妹们在英国有一本时尚书，里面有一个人物，威廉私下把它拿走了，把它贴在他的办公桌盖上，想象他在印刷品中看到了与奥斯本夫人有些相似的地方，而我已经看到了，并且可以保证这只是一张高腰礼服的照片，上面有一张不可思议的娃娃脸，也许还有多宾先生的脸多愁善感的阿米莉亚与真实的阿米莉亚并不比他珍视的这幅荒谬的小印刷品更相似。但是，我们之中，哪个恋爱中的男人更了解情况呢？——或者说，当他看到并承认自己的错觉时，他会更快乐吗？多宾就处于这种魔咒之下。他并没有过多地关心他的朋友和公众的感受，或者确实因为他们而失去了自然的休息或食欲。自从我们上次见到他以来，他的头已经花白了，在柔软的棕色头发中也可以看到一两道银色的线。但他的感情丝毫没有改变或陈旧，他的爱情仍然像一个男人对童年的回忆一样新鲜。

We have said how the two Misses Dobbin and Amelia, the Major’s correspondents in Europe, wrote him letters from England, Mrs. Osborne congratulating him with great candour and cordiality upon his approaching nuptials with Miss O’Dowd. ‘Your sister has just kindly visited me,’ Amelia wrote in her letter, ‘and informed me of an INTERESTING EVENT, upon which I beg to offer my MOST SINCERE CONGRATULATIONS. I hope the young lady to whom I hear you are to be UNITED will in every respect prove worthy of one who is himself all kindness and goodness. The poor widow has only her prayers to offer and her cordial cordial wishes for YOUR PROSPERITY! Georgy sends his love to HIS DEAR GODPAPA and hopes that you will not forget him. I tell him that you are about to form OTHER TIES, with one who I am sure merits ALL YOUR AFFECTION, but that, although such ties must of course be the strongest and most sacred, and supersede ALL OTHERS, yet that I am sure the widow and the child whom you have ever protected and loved will always HAVE A CORNER IN YOUR HEART’ The letter, which has been before alluded to, went on in this strain, protesting throughout as to the extreme satisfaction of the writer.
我们已经说过，少校在欧洲的通讯员多宾和阿米莉亚两位小姐是如何从英国给他写信的，奥斯本夫人以极大的坦诚和诚挚地祝贺他与奥多德小姐即将举行婚礼。阿米莉亚在信中写道：“你姐姐刚刚拜访了我，并告诉我一件有趣的事情，对此我谨表示最诚挚的祝贺。”我希望我听说你要团结的那位年轻女士在各方面都能证明自己配得上一个善良和善良的人。可怜的寡妇只能为您祈祷并衷心祝愿您繁荣昌盛！乔治向他亲爱的神爸爸表达他的爱，并希望你不会忘记他。我告诉他，你即将与一个我相信值得你倾注全部感情的人建立其他关系，但是，尽管这种关系当然必须是最牢固和最神圣的，并且取代所有其他关系，但我确信寡妇和你曾经保护和爱过的孩子将永远在你心中占有一角。”这封信，之前已经提到过，以这种语气继续，自始至终都在抗议作者的极度满足。

This letter, .which arrived by the very same ship which brought out Lady O’Dowd’s box of millinery from London (and which you may be sure Dobbin opened before any one of the other packets which the mail brought him), put the receiver into such a state of mind that Glorvina, and her pink satin, and everything belonging to her became perfectly odious to him. The Major cursed the talk of women, and the sex in general. Everything annoyed him that day—the parade was insufferably hot and wearisome. Good heavens! was a man of intellect to waste his life, day after day, inspecting cross-belts and putting fools through their manoeuvres? The senseless chatter of the young men at mess was more than ever jarring. What cared he, a man on the high road to forty, to know how many snipes Lieutenant Smith had shot, or what were the performances of Ensign Brown’s mare? The jokes about the table filled him with shame. He was too old to listen to the banter of the assistant surgeon and the slang of the youngsters, at which old O’Dowd, with his bald head and red face, laughed quite easily. The old man had listened to those jokes any time these thirty years—Dobbin himself had been fifteen years hearing them. And after the boisterous dulness of the mess-table, the quarrels and scandal of the ladies of the regiment! It was unbearable, shameful. ‘O Amelia, Amelia,’ he thought, ‘you to whom I have been so faithful—you reproach me! It is because you cannot feel for me that I drag on this wearisome life. And you reward me after years of devotion by giving me your blessing upon my marriage, forsooth, with this flaunting Irish girl!’ Sick and sorry felt poor William; more than ever wretched and lonely. He would like to have done with life and its vanity altogether—so bootless and unsatisfactory the struggle, so cheerless and dreary the prospect seemed to him. He lay all that night sleepless, and yearning to go home. Amelia’s letter had fallen as a blank upon him. No fidelity, no constant truth and passion, could move her into warmth. She would not see that he loved her. Tossing in his bed, he spoke out to her. ‘Good God, Amelia!’ he said, ‘don’t you know that I only love you in the world—you, who are a stone to me—you, whom I tended through months and months of illness and grief, and who bade me farewell with a smile on your face, and forgot me before the door shut between us!’ The native servants lying outside his verandas beheld with wonder the Major, so cold and quiet ordinarily, at present so passionately moved and cast down. Would she have pitied him had she seen him? He read over and over all the letters which he ever had from her—letters of business relative to the little property which he had made her believe her husband had left to her— brief notes of invitation—every scrap of writing that she had ever sent to him—how cold, how kind, how hopeless, how selfish they were!
这封信是由从伦敦运出奥多德夫人的女帽盒子的同一艘船送来的（你可以肯定，多宾在邮件给他带来的任何其他包裹之前打开了这盒子），将收件人放入这种心态使得格洛维娜、她的粉红色缎子以及属于她的一切都变得对他来说非常令人厌恶。少校咒骂女人的谈话，以及一般意义上的性。那天的一切都让他很恼火——游行队伍酷热难耐，令人厌烦。我的妈呀！一个有智慧的人会浪费自己的生命，日复一日地检查交叉传送带并让傻瓜们完成他们的演习吗？年轻人在混乱中毫无意义的喋喋不休比以往任何时候都更加刺耳。作为一个快要四十岁的人，他关心史密斯中尉打了多少只狙击枪，或者布朗少尉的母马表现如何？关于餐桌上的笑话让他感到羞愧。他年纪太大了，听不了助理外科医生的玩笑和年轻人的俚语，秃头红脸的老奥多德很容易笑起来。三十年来，老人一直在听这些笑话——多宾本人听这些笑话已有十五年了。在餐桌上热闹的沉闷之后，军团里的女士们发生了争吵和丑闻！这是令人难以忍受的、可耻的。 “噢，阿米莉亚，阿米莉亚，”他想，“你是我如此忠诚的人——你却在责备我！”正因为你对我没有感觉，我才拖着这无聊的生活。经过多年的奉献，你奖励了我，对我与这个炫耀的爱尔兰女孩的婚姻表示祝福！比以往任何时候都更加悲惨和孤独。 他希望彻底结束生活和生活的虚荣——这种斗争是徒劳无益的，而且前景并不如他所愿，前景如此黯淡和沉闷。他一夜没睡，一心想回家。阿米莉亚的信落在他面前就像一片空白。没有任何忠诚、没有永恒的真理和激情可以让她变得温暖。她不会看出他爱她。他在床上翻来覆去，对她说话。 “天哪，阿米莉亚！”他说，“难道你不知道我在这个世界上只爱你吗——你对我来说是一块石头——你是我在数月的疾病和悲伤中照顾的你，你是我爱的人。”你脸上带着微笑向我告别，在我们之间的门关上之前就把我忘了！”躺在阳台外的当地仆人惊讶地看着平时冷漠而安静的少校，现在却如此热情地感动和沮丧。如果她看到他，她会怜悯他吗？他一遍又一遍地读着她从她那里收到的所有信件——与他让她相信她丈夫留给她的那点财产有关的商业信函——简短的邀请函——她寄过的每一条文字。对他来说——他们是多么冷酷，多么善良，多么绝望，多么自私！

Had there been some kind gentle soul near at hand who could read and appreciate this silent generous heart, who knows but that the reign of Amelia might have been over, and that friend William’s love might have flowed into a kinder channel? But there was only Glorvina of the jetty ringlets with whom his intercourse was familiar, and this dashing young woman was not bent upon loving the Major, but rather on making the Major admire HER—a most vain and hopeless task, too, at least considering the means that the poor girl possessed to carry it out. She curled her hair and showed her shoulders at him, as much as to say, did ye ever see such jet ringlets and such a complexion? She grinned at him so that he might see that every tooth in her head was sound—and he never heeded all these charms. Very soon after the arrival of the box of millinery, and perhaps indeed in honour of it, Lady O’Dowd and the ladies of the King’s Regiment gave a ball to the Company’s Regiments and the civilians at the station. Glorvina sported the killing pink frock, and the Major, who attended the party and walked very ruefully up and down the rooms, never so much as perceived the pink garment. Glorvina danced past him in a fury with all the young subalterns of the station, and the Major was not in the least jealous of her performance, or angry because Captain Bangles of the Cavalry handed her to supper. It was not jealousy, or frocks, or shoulders that could move him, and Glorvina had nothing more.
如果附近有一个善良温柔的灵魂能够读懂并欣赏这颗沉默慷慨的心，谁知道阿米莉亚的统治可能已经结束，而朋友威廉的爱可能会流入一个更仁慈的渠道？但只有一个与他交往很熟悉的、留着码头小卷发的格洛维娜，这位风度翩翩的年轻女子并不是一心想爱少校，而是想让少校钦佩她——这也是一项最徒劳、最无望的任务，至少考虑到这个可怜的女孩拥有实现这一目标的手段。她卷起头发，向他露出肩膀，仿佛在说，你见过这样的乌黑卷发和这样的肤色吗？她对他咧嘴一笑，这样他就可以看到她脑袋里的每颗牙齿都完好无损——而他却从来没有注意到所有这些魅力。帽子到达后不久，也许确实是为了纪念它，奥多德夫人和国王军团的女士们为连队的军团和车站的平民举办了一场舞会。格洛维娜穿着那件致命的粉红色连衣裙，少校参加了聚会，非常悲伤地在房间里走来走去，却从未注意到这件粉红色的衣服。格洛维娜和车站里所有的年轻副官一起愤怒地跳着舞从他身边走过，少校丝毫没有嫉妒她的表演，也没有因为骑兵队长班格斯把她递给她吃晚饭而生气。嫉妒、连衣裙或肩膀都无法打动他，格洛维娜什么也没有了。

So these two were each exemplifying the Vanity of this life, and each longing for what he or she could not get. Glorvina cried with rage at the failure. She had set her mind on the Major ‘more than on any of the others,’ she owned, sobbing. ‘He’ll break my heart, he will, Peggy,’ she would whimper to her sister-in-law when they were good friends; ‘sure every one of me frocks must be taken in— it’s such a skeleton I’m growing.’ Fat or thin, laughing or melancholy, on horseback or the music-stool, it was all the same to the Major. And the Colonel, puffing his pipe and listening to these complaints, would suggest that Glory should have some black frocks out in the next box from London, and told a mysterious story of a lady in Ireland who died of grief for the loss of her husband before she got ere a one.
所以这两个人都体现了今生的虚荣，并且都渴望自己无法得到的东西。格洛维娜因失败而愤怒地哭泣。她抽泣着承认，她“比其他任何人都更关心”少校。 “他会伤透我的心的，他会的，佩吉，”当他们还是好朋友时，她会对她的嫂子呜咽道。 “当然，我的每一件连衣裙都必须被吸收——我正在长成一副骨架。”无论是胖还是瘦，欢笑还是忧郁，在马背上还是在音乐凳上，对少校来说都是一样的。上校一边抽着烟斗，听着这些抱怨，一边建议格洛丽在伦敦的下一个盒子里放一些黑色连衣裙，并讲述了一个爱尔兰女士的神秘故事，她因失去丈夫而悲痛而死。在她得到一个之前。

While the Major was going on in this tantalizing way, not proposing, and declining to fall in love, there came another ship from Europe bringing letters on board, and amongst them some more for the heartless man. These were home letters bearing an earlier postmark than that of the former packets, and as Major Dobbin recognized among his the handwriting of his sister, who always crossed and recrossed her letters to her brother—gathered together all the possible bad news which she could collect, abused him and read him lectures with sisterly frankness, and always left him miserable for the day after ‘dearest William’ had achieved the perusal of one of her epistles—the truth must be told that dearest William did not hurry himself to break the seal of Miss Dobbin’s letter, but waited for a particularly favourable day and mood for doing so. A fortnight before, moreover, he had written to scold her for telling those absurd stories to Mrs. Osborne, and had despatched a letter in reply to that lady, undeceiving her with respect to the reports concerning him and assuring her that ‘he had no sort of present intention of altering his condition.’
当少校以这种诱人的方式进行时，不求婚，拒绝谈恋爱，另一艘来自欧洲的船载着信件上船，其中还有一些写给无情男人的信。这些是家信，上面的邮戳比以前的包裹要早，多宾少校在他的信中认出了他姐姐的笔迹，她总是把写给她哥哥的信交叉起来——收集了她能收集到的所有可能的坏消息。 ，辱骂他，并以姐妹般的坦率给他朗读讲座，并且总是让他在“最亲爱的威廉”读完她的一封信后的第二天感到痛苦——必须说实话，最亲爱的威廉并没有急着撕开封印。多宾小姐的信，但等待一个特别有利的日子和心情这样做。此外，两周前，他还写信斥责她向奥斯本夫人讲述了那些荒唐的故事，并给那位女士回了一封信，在有关他的报道上向她保证，“他没有欺骗她”。目前打算改变他的状况。

Two or three nights after the arrival of the second package of letters, the Major had passed the evening pretty cheerfully at Lady O’Dowd’s house, where Glorvina thought that he listened with rather more attention than usual to the Meeting of the Wathers, the Minsthrel Boy, and one or two other specimens of song with which she favoured him (the truth is, he was no more listening to Glorvina than to the howling of the jackals in the moonlight outside, and the delusion was hers as usual), and having played his game at chess with her (cribbage with the surgeon was Lady O’Dowd’s favourite evening pastime), Major Dobbin took leave of the Colonel’s family at his usual hour and retired to his own house.
第二包信件到达后的两三个晚上，少校在奥多德夫人的家里度过了一个愉快的夜晚，格洛维娜认为他在那里比平时更加​​专注地聆听吟游诗人的会议。男孩，还有她喜欢他的一两首歌曲（事实是，他并没有在听格洛维娜的歌，就像在听外面月光下豺狼的嚎叫一样，而这种错觉和往常一样是她的），并有与她下棋（与外科医生一起下棋是奥多德夫人晚上最喜欢的消遣），多宾少校在平常的时间向上校的家人告别，回到了自己的家。

There on his table, his sister’s letter lay reproaching him. He took it up, ashamed rather of his negligence regarding it, and prepared himself for a disagreeable hour’s communing with that crabbed-handed absent relative…. It may have been an hour after the Major’s departure from the Colonel’s house—Sir Michael was sleeping the sleep of the just; Glorvina had arranged her black ringlets in the innumerable little bits of paper, in which it was her habit to confine them; Lady O’Dowd, too, had gone to her bed in the nuptial chamber, on the ground-floor, and had tucked her musquito curtains round her fair form, when the guard at the gates of the Commanding-Officer’s compound beheld Major Dobbin, in the moonlight, rushing towards the house with a swift step and a very agitated countenance, and he passed the sentinel and went up to the windows of the Colonel’s bedchamber.
他的桌子上放着他姐姐的信，信中责备他。他接起电话，为自己对此的疏忽感到羞愧，并准备好与那个手脚发软、缺席的亲戚进行一段不愉快的小时交谈……少校离开上校家大约一个小时后——迈克尔爵士正在酣睡。格洛维娜把她的黑色小卷发排列在无数小纸片中，她习惯将它们限制在其中。奥多德夫人也来到一楼婚房的床上，用蚊帐遮住了她美丽的身躯，这时指挥官大院门口的守卫看到了多宾少校，他在月光下，迈着快步，神情激动地冲向屋子，越过哨兵，走到上校卧室的窗户前。

‘O’Dowd—Colonel!’ said Dobbin and kept up a great shouting.
“奥多德——上校！”多宾一边说，一边继续大声喊叫。

‘Heavens, Meejor!’ said Glorvina of the curl-papers, putting out her head too, from her window.
“天哪，米乔！”格洛维娜对那些卷纸说道，同时也从窗户里探出了头。

‘What is it, Dob, me boy?’ said the Colonel, expecting there was a fire in the station, or that the route had come from headquarters.
“怎么了，多布，我的孩子？”上校问道，他以为车站着火了，或者路线是从总部来的。

‘I—I must have leave of absence. I must go to England—on the most urgent private affairs,’ Dobbin said.
“我——我必须请假。我必须去英国——处理最紧急的私人事务，”多宾说。

‘Good heavens, what has happened!’ thought Glorvina, trembling with all the papillotes.
“天哪，发生了什么事！”格洛维娜心想，浑身的乳头都在颤抖。

‘I want to be off—now—to-night,’ Dobbin continued; and the Colonel getting up, came out to parley with him.
“我想离开——现在——今晚，”多宾继续说道。上校站起来，出来与他谈判。

In the postscript of Miss Dobbin’s cross-letter, the Major had just come upon a paragraph, to the following effect:—‘I drove yesterday to see your old ACQUAINTANCE, Mrs. Osborne. The wretched place they live at, since they were bankrupts, you know—Mr. S., to judge from a BRASS PLATE on the door of his hut (it is little better) is a coal-merchant. The little boy, your godson, is certainly a fine child, though forward, and inclined to be saucy and self-willed. But we have taken notice of him as you wish it, and have introduced him to his aunt, Miss O., who was rather pleased with him. Perhaps his grandpapa, not the bankrupt one, who is almost doting, but Mr. Osborne, of Russell Square, may be induced to relent towards the child of your friend, HIS ERRING AND SELF-WILLED SON. And Amelia will not be ill-disposed to give him up. The widow is CONSOLED, and is about to marry a reverend gentleman, the Rev. Mr. Binny, one of the curates of Brompton. A poor match. But Mrs. O. is getting old, and I saw a great deal of grey in her hair—she was in very good spirits: and your little godson overate himself at our house. Mamma sends her love with that of your affectionate, Ann Dobbin.’
在多宾小姐的互信的附言中，少校刚刚看到一段话，大意如下：“我昨天开车去见你的老熟人，奥斯本夫人。他们破产了，你知道，他们住的地方多么破烂——先生。 S.，从他小屋门上的铜牌（也好不了多少）来判断，他是一个煤炭商人。这个小男孩，你的教子，当然是一个好孩子，虽然很前卫，而且倾向于调皮和任性。但我们已经如你所愿地注意到了他，并把他介绍给了他的姨妈 O. 小姐，她对他相当满意。也许他的祖父，而不是破产的祖父，几乎是溺爱的，但罗素广场的奥斯本先生，可能会被诱使对你朋友的孩子，他犯错和任性的儿子心慈手软。阿米莉亚不会恶意放弃他。寡妇已经康复，即将嫁给一位可敬的绅士，宾尼牧师先生，布朗普顿的牧师之一。一场糟糕的比赛。但O夫人已经老了，我看到她的头发白了很多——她的精神很好：而你的小教子在我们家却过分了。妈妈用你深情的安·多宾的爱来表达她的爱。

Chapter XLIV
第四十四章


A Round-about Chapter between London and Hampshire
伦敦和汉普郡之间的迂回篇章

Our old friends the Crawleys’ family house, in Great Gaunt Street, still bore over its front the hatchment which had been placed there as a token of mourning for Sir Pitt Crawley’s demise, yet this heraldic emblem was in itself a very splendid and gaudy piece of furniture, and all the rest of the mansion became more brilliant than it had ever been during the late baronet’s reign. The black outer-coating of the bricks was removed, and they appeared with a cheerful, blushing face streaked with white: the old bronze lions of the knocker were gilt handsomely, the railings painted, and the dismallest house in Great Gaunt Street became the smartest in the whole quarter, before the green leaves in Hampshire had replaced those yellowing ones which were on the trees in Queen’s Crawley Avenue when old Sir Pitt Crawley passed under them for the last time.
我们的老朋友克劳利家族位于大冈特街的房子，前面仍然挂着舱口，这是为了哀悼皮特·克劳利爵士的去世而放置的，但这个纹章标志本身就是一件非常华丽和华丽的作品家具和宅邸的所有其他部分都变得比从男爵晚期统治期间更加辉煌。砖块的黑色外层被去掉了，它们露出了一张欢快、红润的脸，上面还夹着白色的条纹：门环上古老的青铜狮子镀金得很漂亮，栏杆也涂了漆，大冈特街最小的房子变成了最聪明的房子。在汉普郡的绿叶取代了老皮特·克劳利爵士最后一次从女王克劳利大道树下经过时那些泛黄的树叶之前，汉普郡的绿叶在整个季度都被覆盖了。

A little woman, with a carriage to correspond, was perpetually seen about this mansion; an elderly spinster, accompanied by a little boy, also might be remarked coming thither daily. It was Miss Briggs and little Rawdon, whose business it was to see to the inward renovation of Sir Pitt’s house, to superintend the female band engaged in stitching the blinds and hangings, to poke and rummage in the drawers and cupboards crammed with the dirty relics and congregated trumperies of a couple of generations of Lady Crawleys, and to take inventories of the china, the glass, and other properties in the closets and store-rooms.
这座宅子周围永远可见一位身材娇小的女人，她驾着一辆马车。人们还可能注意到，一位老处女每天都会带着一个小男孩来到这里。布里格斯小姐和小罗登负责皮特爵士房子的内部装修，监督缝制百叶窗和窗帘的女乐队，在塞满脏东西的抽屉和橱柜里翻找。克劳利夫人的几代人聚集在一起，清点壁橱和储藏室里的瓷器、玻璃器皿和其他财产。

Mrs. Rawdon Crawley was general-in-chief over these arrangements, with full orders from Sir Pitt to sell, barter, confiscate, or purchase furniture, and she enjoyed herself not a little in an occupation which gave full scope to her taste and ingenuity. The renovation of the house was determined upon when Sir Pitt came to town in November to see his lawyers, and when he passed nearly a week in Curzon Street, under the roof of his affectionate brother and sister.
罗顿·克劳利夫人是这些安排的总指挥，皮特爵士下达了出售、易货、没收或购买家具的全部命令，她在这份充分发挥她的品味和聪明才智的职业中感到非常高兴。 。当皮特爵士十一月来到镇上会见他的律师时，当他在柯松街，在他深情的兄弟姐妹的屋檐下度过了近一周时，就决定了对房子进行翻修。

He had put up at an hotel at first, but, Becky, as soon as she heard of the Baronet’s arrival, went off alone to greet him, and returned in an hour to Curzon Street with Sir Pitt in the carriage by her side. It was impossible sometimes to resist this artless little creature’s hospitalities, so kindly were they pressed, so frankly and amiably offered. Becky seized Pitt’s hand in a transport of gratitude when he agreed to come. ‘Thank you,’ she said, squeezing it and looking into the Baronet’s eyes, who blushed a good deal; ‘how happy this will make Rawdon!’ She bustled up to Pitt’s bedroom, leading on the servants, who were carrying his trunks thither. She came in herself laughing, with a coal-scuttle out of her own room.
他一开始住在一家旅馆里，但是贝基一听说从男爵到来，就独自去迎接他，一个小时后回到柯松街，皮特爵士坐在她身边的马车里。有时，我们无法抗拒这个天真无邪的小家伙的热情好客，他们是如此友善，如此坦率和友善。当皮特同意来时，贝基感激地握住他的手。 “谢谢你，”她说，捏着它，看着从男爵的眼睛，他的脸涨得通红。 “这会让罗登多么高兴啊！”她急忙跑到皮特的卧室，领着仆人们，他们正把他的箱子搬到那里。她带着煤斗从自己的房间里笑着走进来。

A fire was blazing already in Sir Pitt’s apartment (it was Miss Briggs’s room, by the way, who was sent upstairs to sleep with the maid). ‘I knew I should bring you,’ she said with pleasure beaming in her glance. Indeed, she was really sincerely happy at having him for a guest.
皮特爵士的公寓里已经着火了（顺便说一句，这是布里格斯小姐的房间，她被送到楼上和女仆一起睡觉）。 “我就知道我应该带你来，”她说道，眼神中闪着喜悦的光芒。确实，有他来做客，她真的是由衷的高兴。

Becky made Rawdon dine out once or twice on business, while Pitt stayed with them, and the Baronet passed the happy evening alone with her and Briggs. She went downstairs to the kitchen and actually cooked little dishes for him. ‘Isn’t it a good salmi?’ she said; ‘I made it for you. I can make you better dishes than that, and will when you come to see me.’
贝基出差时约罗登出去吃过一两次饭，而皮特则留在他们身边，从男爵独自与她和布里格斯一起度过了快乐的夜晚。她下楼去了厨房，竟然给他做了一些小菜。 “这不是一道美味的萨尔米酱吗？”她说。 ‘我为你做的。我可以给你做比那更好的菜，当你来看我的时候我也会做的。

‘Everything you do, you do well,’ said the Baronet gallantly. ‘The salmi is excellent indeed.’
“你做的每一件事都做得很好，”从男爵殷勤地说。 “萨尔米确实很棒。”

‘A poor man’s wife,’ Rebecca replied gaily, ‘must make herself useful, you know”; on which her brother-in-law vowed that ‘she was fit to be the wife of an Emperor, and that to be skilful in domestic duties was surely one of the most charming of woman’s qualities.’ And Sir Pitt thought, with something like mortification, of Lady Jane at home, and of a certain pie which she had insisted on making, and serving to him at dinner—a most abominable pie.
“一个穷人的妻子，”丽贝卡高兴地回答，“你知道，必须让自己变得有用”；她的姐夫发誓说“她适合成为皇帝的妻子，熟练地处理家务无疑是女人最迷人的品质之一。”皮特爵士这样想，简女士在家里，以及她坚持做的某种馅饼，并在晚餐时给他做的馅饼——一种最令人厌恶的馅饼，她感到羞愧。

Besides the salmi, which was made of Lord Steyne’s pheasants from his lordship’s cottage of Stillbrook, Becky gave her brother-in-law a bottle of white wine, some that Rawdon had brought with him from France, and had picked up for nothing, the little story-teller said; whereas the liquor was, in truth, some White Hermitage from the Marquis of Steyne’s famous cellars, which brought fire into the Baronet’s pallid cheeks and a glow into his feeble frame.
除了用斯蒂尔布鲁克勋爵小屋里斯泰因勋爵的野鸡制成的萨尔米之外，贝基还给了她姐夫一瓶白葡萄酒，有些是罗登从法国带来的，是无偿捡来的，小讲故事的人说；事实上，酒是斯泰因侯爵著名的地窖里的某种白酒，它给男爵苍白的脸颊带来了火焰，让他虚弱的身躯焕发了光芒。

Then when he had drunk up the bottle of petit vin blanc, she gave him her hand, and took him up to the drawing-room, and made him snug on the sofa by the fire, and let him talk as she listened with the tenderest kindly interest, sitting by him, and hemming a shirt for her dear little boy. Whenever Mrs. Rawdon wished to be particularly humble and virtuous, this little shirt used to come out of her workbox. It had got to be too small for Rawdon long before it was finished.
当他喝完那瓶小白葡萄酒后，她伸出手来，带他到客厅，让他舒服地坐在火炉边的沙发上，让他说话，她用最温柔的态度听他说话。亲切的兴趣，坐在他旁边，为她亲爱的小男孩缝制衬衫。每当罗登夫人希望表现得特别谦虚和贤惠时，她就会从工作箱里拿出这件小衬衫。早在完工之前，它对于罗登来说就太小了。

Well, Rebecca listened to Pitt, she talked to him, she sang to him, she coaxed him, and cuddled him, so that he found himself more and more glad every day to get back from the lawyer’s at Gray’s Inn, to the blazing fire in Curzon Street—a gladness in which the men of law likewise participated, for Pitt’s harangues were of the longestand so that when he went away he felt quite a pang at departing. How pretty she looked kissing her hand to him from the carriage and waving her handkerchief when he had taken his place in the mail! She put the handkerchief to her eyes once. He pulled his sealskin cap over his, as the coach drove away, and, sinking back, he thought to himself how she respected him and how he deserved it, and how Rawdon was a foolish dull fellow who didn’t half-appreciate his wife; and how mum and stupid his own wife was compared to that brilliant little Becky. Becky had hinted every one of these things herself, perhaps, but so delicately and gently that you hardly knew when or where. And, before they parted, it was agreed that the house in London should be redecorated for the next season, and that the brothers’ families should meet again in the country at Christmas.
好吧，丽贝卡听皮特的话，她和他说话，她给他唱歌，她哄他，拥抱他，所以他发现自己每天都越来越高兴从格雷旅馆的律师那里回到熊熊的火堆。在柯松街——律师们也同样感到高兴，因为皮特的长篇大论是最长的，所以当他离开时，他感到非常痛苦。当他在邮件中就位时，她在马车上亲吻他的手，挥舞着她的手帕，看起来多么漂亮啊！她用手帕捂住了眼睛。当教练开走时，他把海豹皮帽子拉到了自己的头上，然后，他往后一沉，心里想她是多么尊重他，他是多么应得的，而罗登是一个愚蠢的、迟钝的家伙，一点也不欣赏他的妻子。 ;与那个聪明的小贝基相比，他自己的妻子是多么的木讷和愚蠢。贝基也许亲自暗示了这些事情中的每一件事，但如此微妙和温柔，你几乎不知道何时何地。而且，在他们分手之前，双方商定，伦敦的房子应该在下一季重新装修，兄弟俩的家人应该在圣诞节时在乡下再次相聚。

‘I wish you could have got a little money out of him,’ Rawdon said to his wife moodily when the Baronet was gone. ‘I should like to give something to old Raggles, hanged if I shouldn’t. It ain’t right, you know, that the old fellow should be kept out of all his money. It may be inconvenient, and he might let to somebody else besides us, you know.’
“我希望你能从他那里得到一点钱，”从男爵离开后，罗登情绪低落地对他的妻子说道。 “我想送点东西给老拉格斯，如果不送就被绞死。”你知道，不让这个老家伙得到他所有的钱是不对的。这可能会很不方便，你知道，他可能会告诉我们以外的其他人。

‘Tell him,’ said Becky, ‘that as soon as Sir Pitt’s affairs are settled, everybody will be paid, and give him a little something on account. Here’s a cheque that Pitt left for the boy,’ and she took from her bag and gave her husband a paper which his brother had handed over to her, on behalf of the little son and heir of the younger branch of the Crawleys.
“告诉他，”贝基说，“一旦皮特爵士的事情解决了，每个人都会得到报酬，并给他一些欠款。这是皮特留给男孩的一张支票，”她从包里拿出一张文件给了她丈夫，这是他的兄弟代表小儿子和克劳利家族小支系的继承人交给她的。

The truth is, she had tried personally the ground on which her husband expressed a wish that she should venture—tried it ever so delicately, and found it unsafe. Even at a hint about embarrassments, Sir Pitt Crawley was off and alarmed. And he began a long speech, explaining how straitened he himself was in money matters; how the tenants would not pay; how his father’s affairs, and the expenses attendant upon the demise of the old gentleman, had involved him; how he wanted to pay off incumbrances; and how the bankers and agents were overdrawn; and Pitt Crawley ended by making a compromise with his sister-in-law and giving her a very small sum for the benefit of her little boy.
事实上，她曾亲自尝试过她丈夫表示希望她冒险的理由——尝试得非常微妙，但发现它不安全。即使有一丝关于尴尬的暗示，皮特·克劳利爵士还是感到震惊。他开始了一篇长篇演讲，解释了他自己在金钱问题上的困境。租户如何不付款；他父亲的事务以及老先生去世后的开支如何与他有关；他想如何偿还债务；以及银行家和代理人是如何透支的；皮特·克劳利最终与他的嫂子达成了妥协，为了她的小儿子的利益，给了她一小笔钱。

Pitt knew how poor his brother and his brother’s family must be. It could not have escaped the notice of such a cool and experienced old diplomatist that Rawdon’s family had nothing to live upon, and that houses and carriages are not to be kept for nothing. He knew very well that he was the proprietor or appropriator of the money, which, according to all proper calculation, ought to have fallen to his younger brother, and he had, we may be sure, some secret pangs of remorse within him, which warned him that he ought to perform some act of justice, or, let us say, compensation, towards these disappointed relations. A just, decent man, not without brains, who said his prayers, and knew his catechism, and did his duty outwardly through life, he could not be otherwise than aware that something was due to his brother at his hands, and that morally he was Rawdon’s debtor.
皮特知道他的兄弟和他兄弟的家人一定有多穷。罗登一家没有什么赖以为生的，房子和马车也不能白白保留，这不可能逃过这位冷静又经验丰富的老外交官的注意。他非常清楚，他是这笔钱的所有者或占用人，根据所有正确的计算，这笔钱应该落到他的弟弟手中，而且我们可以肯定，他内心有一些隐秘的悔恨之痛，警告他应该对这些失望的关系采取一些正义行动，或者说，补偿。一个公正、正派的人，不是没有头脑，他会祈祷，知道他的教义问答，并在一生中履行他的外在义务，他不可能不知道有些事情是他兄弟在他手中的，并且在道德上他是罗登的债务人。

But, as one reads in the columns of the Times newspaper every now and then, queer announcements from the Chancellor of the Exchequer, acknowledging the receipt of 50 pounds from A. B., or 10 pounds from W. T., as conscience-money, on account of taxes due by the said A. B. or W. T., which payments the penitents beg the Right Honourable gentleman to acknowledge through the medium of the public press—so is the Chancellor no doubt, and the reader likewise, always perfectly sure that the above-named A. B. and W. T. are only paying a very small instalment of what they really owe, and that the man who sends up a twenty-pound note has very likely hundreds or thousands more for which he ought to account. Such, at least, are my feelings, when I see A. B. or W. T.’s insufficient acts of repentance. And I have no doubt that Pitt Crawley’s contrition, or kindness if you will, towards his younger brother, by whom he had so much profited, was only a very small dividend upon the capital sum in which he was indebted to Rawdon. Not everybody is willing to pay even so much. To part with money is a sacrifice beyond almost all men endowed with a sense of order. There is scarcely any man alive who does not think himself meritorious for giving his neighbour five pounds. Thriftless gives, not from a beneficent pleasure in giving, but from a lazy delight in spending. He would not deny himself one enjoyment; not his opera-stall, not his horse, not his dinner, not even the pleasure of giving Lazarus the five pounds. Thrifty, who is good, wise, just, and owes no man a penny, turns from a beggar, haggles with a hackney-coachman, or denies a poor relation, and I doubt which is the most selfish of the two. Money has only a different value in the eyes of each.
但是，正如人们时不时在《泰晤士报》的专栏中读到的那样，英国财政大臣发表了奇怪的声明，承认从 A. B. 收到了 50 英镑，或者从 W. T. 收到了 10 英镑，作为良心钱，因为税收的缘故。上述 A. B. 或 W. T. 所欠的款项，支付给忏悔者，请求尊敬的先生通过公共媒体承认这一点——毫无疑问，大法官也是如此，读者也同样，总是完全确定上述 A. B. 和 W. T.他们只支付了他们真正欠下的一小部分，而寄出一张二十英镑的钞票的人很可能还有数百或数千美元需要他负责。至少，当我看到 A. B. 或 W. T. 悔改不充分时，我的感受是这样的。我毫不怀疑，皮特·克劳利对他的弟弟的忏悔，或者说善意，如果你愿意的话，他从他的弟弟那里得到了如此多的利润，这只是他欠罗顿的资本总额中很小的红利。并不是每个人都愿意付出这么多。放弃金钱是一种几乎所有具有秩序感的人都无法做出的牺牲。几乎没有一个活着的人不认为自己给邻居五英镑是有功劳的。不节俭的给予，不是因为给予时的仁慈快乐，而是因为消费时的懒惰快乐。他不会否认自己的一种享受；不是他的歌剧院，不是他的马，不是他的晚餐，甚至不是给拉扎勒斯五英镑的快乐。节俭，善良，明智，公正，不欠任何人一分钱，他从乞丐变成了乞丐，与出租马车夫讨价还价，或者拒绝了一个可怜的亲戚，我怀疑两者中哪一个是最自私的。金钱在每个人眼中只是价值不同而已。

So, in a word, Pitt Crawley thought he would do something for his brother, and then thought that he would think about it some other time.
所以，总而言之，皮特·克劳利以为他会为他的兄弟做点什么，然后又想到他会在其他时间考虑这件事。

And with regard to Becky, she was not a woman who expected too much from the generosity of her neighbours, and so was quite content with all that Pitt Crawley had done for her. She was acknowledged by the head of the family. If Pitt would not give her anything, he would get something for her some day. If she got no money from her brother-in-law, she got what was as good as money—credit. Raggles was made rather easy in his mind by the spectacle of the union between the brothers, by a small payment on the spot, and by the promise of a much larger sum speedily to be assigned to him. And Rebecca told Miss Briggs, whose Christmas dividend upon the little sum lent by her Becky paid with an air of candid joy, and as if her exchequer was brimming over with gold—Rebecca, we say, told Miss Briggs, in strict confidence that she had conferred with Sir Pitt, who was famous as a financier, on Briggs’s special behalf, as to the most profitable investment of Miss B.’s remaining capital; that Sir Pitt, after much consideration, had thought of a most safe and advantageous way in which Briggs could lay out her money; that, being especially interested in her as an attached friend of the late Miss Crawley, and of the whole family, and that long before he left town, he had recommended that she should be ready with the money at a moment’s notice, so as to purchase at the most favourable opportunity the shares which Sir Pitt had in his eye. Poor Miss Briggs was very grateful for this mark of Sir Pitt’s attention—it came so unsolicited, she said, for she never should have thought of removing the money from the funds—and the delicacy enhanced the kindness of the office; and she promised to see her man of business immediately and be ready with her little cash at the proper hour.
至于贝基，她并不是一个对邻居的慷慨抱有太多期望的女人，因此对皮特·克劳利为她所做的一切感到非常满意。她得到了一家之主的认可。如果皮特不给她任何东西，有一天他会给她一些东西。如果她没有从姐夫那里得到钱，她就会得到和钱一样好的东西——信用。兄弟俩结合的场面、当场支付的小额款项以及很快分配给他的一大笔钱的承诺，使拉格斯的心情变得相当轻松。丽贝卡告诉布里格斯小姐，她的圣诞红利是用她贝基借给她的小笔钱支付的，带着一种坦率的喜悦，就好像她的国库里装满了金子——我们说，丽贝卡告诉布里格斯小姐，她严格保密，她代表布里格斯与著名金融家皮特爵士商议了B小姐剩余资本中最有利可图的投资；皮特爵士经过深思熟虑，想到了一种最安全、最有利的方式，让布里格斯可以分配她的钱；作为已故克劳利小姐和整个家庭的亲密朋友，他对她特别感兴趣，早在他离开小镇之前，他就建议她立即准备好这笔钱，以便在最有利的时机购买皮特爵士看中的股票。可怜的布里格斯小姐非常感谢皮特爵士的这种关注——她说，这种关注是不请自来的，因为她根本不应该考虑从基金中取出这笔钱——而这种精致增强了办公室的友善；她答应立即去见她的商人，并在适当的时候准备好她的一点现金。

And this worthy woman was so grateful for the kindness of Rebecca in the matter, and for that of her generous benefactor, the Colonel, that she went out and spent a great part of her half-year’s dividend in the purchase of a black velvet coat for little Rawdon, who, by the way, was grown almost too big for black velvet now, and was of a size and age befitting him for the assumption of the virile jacket and pantaloons.
这位可敬的女人非常感谢丽贝卡在这件事上的好意，也感谢她慷慨的恩人上校的好意，她出去把半年红利的很大一部分花在了买一件黑色天鹅绒外套上。对于小罗登来说，顺便说一句，他现在已经长得几乎太大了，不适合穿黑色天鹅绒了，而且他的身材和年龄也适合穿着阳刚的夹克和马裤。

He was a fine open-faced boy, with blue eyes and waving flaxen hair, sturdy in limb, but generous and soft in heart, fondly attaching himself to all who were good to him—to the pony—to Lord Southdown, who gave him the horse (he used to blush and glow all over when he saw that kind young nobleman)—to the groom who had charge of the pony—to Molly, the cook, who crammed him with ghost stories at night, and with good things from the dinner—to Briggs, whom he plagued and laughed at—and to his father especially, whose attachment towards the lad was curious too to witness. Here, as he grew to be about eight years old, his attachments may be said to have ended. The beautiful mother-vision had faded away after a while. During near two years she had scarcely spoken to the child. She disliked him. He had the measles and the hooping-cough. He bored her. One day when he was standing at the landing-place, having crept down from the upper regions, attracted by the sound of his mother’s voice, who was singing to Lord Steyne, the drawing room door opening suddenly, discovered the little spy, who but a moment before had been rapt in delight, and listening to the music.
他是一个性格开朗的好男孩，蓝色的眼睛，飘逸的亚麻色头发，四肢粗壮，但内心慷慨而柔软，深情地依附于所有对他好的人——小马——索斯唐勋爵，是他赐予了他那匹马（当他看到那位善良的年轻贵族时，他常常脸红，容光焕发）——给负责照顾小马的马夫——给厨师莫莉，莫莉在晚上给他塞满了鬼故事，还有来自家乡的好东西。晚餐——给布里格斯，他折磨并嘲笑他——尤其是他的父亲，他对这个小伙子的依恋也令人好奇，无法目睹。到了八岁左右，他的执着可以说已经结束了。过了一会儿，美丽的母亲景象就消失了。近两年来，她几乎没有和孩子说过话。她不喜欢他。他得了麻疹和咳嗽。他让她厌烦了。有一天，当他从楼上爬下来，站在着陆点时，被母亲给斯泰因勋爵唱歌的声音所吸引，客​​厅的门突然打开，发现了那个小间谍，他刚才还全神贯注地听着音乐。

His mother came out and struck him violently a couple of boxes on the ear. He heard a laugh from the Marquis in the inner room (who was amused by this free and artless exhibition of Becky’s temper) and fled down below to his friends of the kitchen, bursting in an agony of grief.
他的母亲走了出来，猛烈地打了他的耳朵几拳。他听到内室里侯爵的笑声（他被贝基这种无拘无束、天真无邪的脾气表现逗乐了），然后逃到楼下厨房里的朋友们那里，悲痛欲绝。

‘It is not because it hurts me,’ little Rawdon gasped out—‘only— only’—sobs and tears wound up the sentence in a storm. It was the little boy’s heart that was bleeding. ‘Why mayn’t I hear her singing? Why don’t she ever sing to me—as she does to that baldheaded man with the large teeth?’ He gasped out at various intervals these exclamations of rage and grief. The cook looked at the housemaid, the housemaid looked knowingly at the footman—the awful kitchen inquisition which sits in judgement in every house and knows everything—sat on Rebecca at that moment.
“这并不是因为它伤害了我，”小罗登气喘吁吁地说，“只是——只是”——抽泣和泪水在风暴中结束了这句话。那是小男孩的心在流血。 “为什么我听不到她唱歌？为什么她从来不给我唱歌——就像她对那个长着大牙齿的秃头男人唱歌一样？”他时不时地喘着粗气，发出愤怒和悲伤的感叹。厨师看着女仆，女仆心领神会地看着男仆——那个可怕的厨房调查机构在每个房子里进行着审判，知道一切——此刻坐在丽贝卡身上。

After this incident, the mother’s dislike increased to hatred; the consciousness that the child was in the house was a reproach and a pain to her. His very sight annoyed her. Fear, doubt, and resistance sprang up, too, in the boy’s own bosom. They were separated from that day of the boxes on the ear.
这件事发生后，母亲的厌恶变成了仇恨；意识到孩子在家里，对她来说是一种责备和痛苦。他的目光让她很恼火。恐惧、怀疑和反抗也在男孩的心中油然而生。他们从那天起就分开了耳朵上的盒子。

Lord Steyne also heartily disliked the boy. When they met by mischance, he made sarcastic bows or remarks to the child, or glared at him with savage-looking eyes. Rawdon used to stare him in the face and double his little fists in return. He knew his enemy, and this gentleman, of all who came to the house, was the one who angered him most. One day the footman found him squaring his fists at Lord Steyne’s hat in the hall. The footman told the circumstance as a good joke to Lord Steyne’s coachman; that officer imparted it to Lord Steyne’s gentleman, and to the servants’ hall in general. And very soon afterwards, when Mrs. Rawdon Crawley made her appearance at Gaunt House, the porter who unbarred the gates, the servants of all uniforms in the hall, the functionaries in white waistcoats, who bawled out from landing to landing the names of Colonel and Mrs. Rawdon Crawley, knew about her, or fancied they did. The man who brought her refreshment and stood behind her chair, had talked her character over with the large gentleman in motleycoloured clothes at his side. Bon Dieu! it is awful, that servants’ inquisition! You see a woman in a great party in a splendid saloon, surrounded by faithful admirers, distributing sparkling glances, dressed to perfection, curled, rouged, smiling and happy—Discovery walks respectfully up to her, in the shape of a huge powdered man with large calves and a tray of ices—with Calumny (which is as fatal as truth) behind him, in the shape of the hulking fellow carrying the wafer-biscuits. Madam, your secret will be talked over by those men at their club at the public-house to-night. Jeames will tell Chawles his notions about you over their pipes and pewter beer-pots. Some people ought to have mutes for servants in Vanity Fair—mutes who could not write. If you are guilty, tremble. That fellow behind your chair may be a Janissary with a bow-string in his plush breeches pocket. If you are not guilty, have a care of appearances, which are as ruinous as guilt.
斯泰因勋爵也从心底里不喜欢这个男孩。当他们偶然相遇时，他会对孩子鞠躬或讽刺，或者用凶恶的眼神瞪着他。罗登常常盯着他的脸，并握紧他的小拳头作为回应。他认识他的敌人，而这位先生是所有来到这所房子的人中最令他愤怒的人。有一天，仆人发现他在大厅里对着斯泰因勋爵的帽子握拳。男仆把这件事当作一个好笑话告诉了斯泰因勋爵的车夫。那位军官把它传给了斯泰因勋爵的绅士，以及整个仆人大厅。不久之后，当罗登·克劳利夫人出现在冈特庄园时，打开大门的门房、大厅里所有穿着制服的仆人、穿着白背心的工作人员，他们从一个楼梯平台到另一个楼梯平台大声喊着上校的名字。罗登·克劳利夫人认识她，或者认为他们认识她。那个给她送茶点并站在她椅子后面的男人，已经和他身边那个穿着杂色衣服的大块头绅士谈论了她的性格。祝你好运！仆人的审讯真是可怕！你看到一个女人在一家华丽的酒馆里参加一场盛大的聚会，周围都是忠实的崇拜者，目光闪闪发光，衣着完美，卷发，涂着胭脂，微笑着，幸福——发现恭敬地走到她面前，化身为一个涂着粉的大男人，大牛犊和一盘冰块——身后是诽谤（这和事实一样致命），就像那个拿着威化饼干的大块头。女士，今晚酒店俱乐部里的那些男人将会谈论你的秘密。杰姆斯会通过他们的烟斗和白镴啤酒壶告诉查尔斯他对你的看法。 有些人应该在《名利场》中为仆人配备哑巴——不会写字的哑巴。如果你有罪，就颤抖吧。你椅子后面的那个人可能是一名禁卫军，他的毛绒马裤口袋里有一根弓弦。如果你没有内疚，就要注意外表，它和内疚一样具有毁灭性。

‘Was Rebecca guilty or not?’ the Vehmgericht of tho servants’ hall had pronounced against her.
“丽贝卡到底有没有罪？”仆人大厅的法官对她做出了不利于她的判决。

And, I shame to say, she would not have got credit had they not believed her to be guilty. It was the sight of the Marquis of Steyne’s carriage-lamps at her door, contemplated by Raggles, burning in the blackness of midnight, ‘that kep him up,’ as he afterwards said, that even more than Rebecca’s arts and coaxings.
而且，我羞愧地说，如果他们不相信她有罪，她就不会得到赞扬。拉格斯在午夜的黑暗中注视着斯泰因侯爵家门口的马车灯，“这让他保持了活力”，正如他后来所说，这甚至比丽贝卡的艺术和哄骗更重要。

And so—guiltless very likely—she was writhing and pushing onward towards what they call ‘a position in society,’ and the servants were pointing at her as lost and ruined. So you see Molly, the housemaid, of a morning, watching a spider in the doorpost lay his thread and laboriously crawl up it, until, tired of the sport, she raises her broom and sweeps away the thread and the artificer.
因此，她很可能是无罪的，她正在扭动着，朝着他们所谓的“社会地位”前进，而仆人们则指出她迷失了，被毁了。所以你会看到，女仆莫莉在一个早晨看着门柱上的一只蜘蛛，费力地爬上它的线，直到厌倦了这种运动，她举起扫帚，把线和工匠扫走了。

A day or two before Christmas, Becky, her husband and her son made ready and went to pass the holidays at the seat of their ancestors at Queen’s Crawley. Becky would have liked to leave the little brat behind, and would have done so but for Lady Jane’s urgent invitations to the youngster, and the symptoms of revolt and discontent which Rawdon manifested at her neglect of her son. ‘He’s the finest boy in England,’ the father said in a tone of reproach to her, ‘and you don’t seem to care for him, Becky, as much as you do for your spaniel. He shan’t bother you much; at home he will be away from you in the nursery, and he shall go outside on the coach with me.’
圣诞节前一两天，贝基、她的丈夫和儿子做好了准备，前往女王克劳利祖先的住处过节。贝基本来想把这个小孩子留在身后，如果不是简夫人对这个年轻人的紧急邀请，以及罗登对她忽视儿子所表现出的反抗和不满的症状，贝基本来会这么做的。 “他是英国最好的男孩，”父亲用责备的语气对她说，“贝基，你似乎不像关心你的西班牙猎犬那样关心他。”他不会太打扰你；在家里，他会离开你去托儿所，他会和我一起坐马车出去。”

‘Where you go yourself because you want to smoke those filthy cigars,’ replied Mrs. Rawdon.
“你自己去那里是因为你想抽那些肮脏的雪茄，”罗登夫人回答道。

‘I remember when you liked ‘em though,’ answered the husband.
“我记得你喜欢它们的时候，”丈夫回答道。

Becky laughed; she was almost always good-humoured. ‘That was when I was on my promotion, Goosey,’ she said. ‘Take Rawdon outside with you and give him a cigar too if you like.’
贝基笑了；她几乎总是脾气很好。 “那是我升职的时候，古西，”她说。 “带罗登出去，如果你愿意的话，也给他一支雪茄。”

Rawdon did not warm his little son for the winter’s journey in this way, but he and Briggs wrapped up the child in shawls and comforters, and he was hoisted respectfully onto the roof of the coach in the dark morning, under the lamps of the White Horse Cellar; and with no small delight he watched the dawn rise and made his first journey to the place which his father still called home. It was a journey of infinite pleasure to the boy, to whom the incidents of the road afforded endless interest, his father answering to him all questions connected with it and telling him who lived in the great white house to the right, and whom the park belonged to. His mother, inside the vehicle, with her maid and her furs, her wrappers, and her scent bottles, made such a to-do that you would have thought she never had been in a stage-coach before— much less, that she had been turned out of this very one to make room for a paying passenger on a certain journey performed some half-score years ago.
罗登并没有以这种方式温暖他的小儿子，迎接冬天的旅程，但他和布里格斯用披肩和被子把孩子包裹起来，在漆黑的早晨，在白色的灯光下，把他恭恭敬敬地吊到了车厢的车顶上。马窖；他怀着不小的喜悦看着黎明升起，第一次踏上旅程，前往他父亲仍然称之为家的地方。对于男孩来说，这是一次无限快乐的旅程，路上发生的事情给他带来了无尽的兴趣，他的父亲回答了他所有与此有关的问题，并告诉他谁住在右边的大白宫里，谁住在公园里。曾经属于。他的母亲在车里，带着她的女仆、她的毛皮、她的包装纸和她的香水瓶，做了这样一件待办事项，你会认为她以前从未坐过公共马车——更不用说，她有被赶出了这趟航班，为大约半年前执行的某次旅程中的付费乘客腾出空间。

It was dark again when little Rawdon was wakened up to enter his uncle’s carriage at Mudbury, and he sat and looked out of it wondering as the great iron gates flew open, and at the white trunks of the limes as they swept by, until they stopped, at length, before the light windows of the Hall, which were blazing and comfortable with Christmas welcome. The hall-door was flung open—a big fire was burning in the great old fire-place—a carpet was down over the chequered black flags—‘It’s the old Turkey one that used to be in the Ladies’ Gallery,’ thought Rebecca, and the next instant was kissing Lady Jane.
天又黑了，小罗登被叫醒，准备进入他叔叔在马德伯里的马车，他坐在车里，向外张望，大铁门突然打开，白色的酸橙树干扫过，直到它们出现为止。最后，我在礼堂的明亮窗户前停了下来，窗户里灯火通明，让人感到舒适，迎接圣诞节的到来。大厅的门猛地打开了——古老的大壁炉里熊熊燃烧——格子黑旗上铺着一块地毯——“这是以前在女士画廊里的旧土耳其旗子，”丽贝卡想道。 ，下一瞬间就吻上了简女士。

She and Sir Pitt performed the same salute with great gravity; but Rawdon, having been smoking, hung back rather from his sister-inlaw, whose two children came up to their cousin; and, while Matilda held out her hand and kissed him, Pitt Binkie Southdown, the son and heir, stood aloof rather and examined him as a little dog does a big dog.
她和皮特爵士庄严地行了同样的礼。但罗登一直在抽烟，对他的嫂子颇为畏惧，他的嫂子的两个孩子来到了他们表弟的身边。当玛蒂尔达伸出手亲吻他时，儿子兼继承人皮特·宾基·绍斯当却远远地站着，像一只小狗审视一只大狗一样审视着他。

Then the kind hostess conducted her guests to the snug apartments blazing with cheerful fires. Then the young ladies came and knocked at Mrs. Rawdon’s door, under the pretence that they were desirous to be useful, but in reality to have the pleasure of inspecting the contents of her band and bonnet-boxes, and her dresses which, though black, were of the newest London fashion. And they told her how much the Hall was changed for the better, and how old Lady Southdown was gone, and how Pitt was taking his station in the county, as became a Crawley in fact. Then the great dinner-bell having rung, the family assembled at dinner, at which meal Rawdon Junior was placed by his aunt, the good-natured lady of the house, Sir Pitt being uncommonly attentive to his sister-in-law at his own right hand.
然后，善良的女主人领着她的客人来到舒适的公寓，公寓里还燃着欢快的篝火。然后年轻的女士们来敲罗登太太的门，假装她们希望能帮上忙，但实际上是想看看她的带子和帽子盒里的东西，还有她的衣服，虽然是黑色的。 ，都是最新的伦敦时尚。他们告诉她大厅发生了多大的变化，绍斯当夫人去世了多少岁，以及皮特如何在县里担任职务，实际上成为了克劳利家族的一员。然后，盛大的晚餐铃响了，一家人聚集在一起吃晚饭，小罗登是由他的姨妈，好脾气的女主人安排的，皮特爵士在他自己的房间里对他的嫂子异常殷勤。右手。

Little Rawdon exhibited a fine appetite and showed a gentlemanlike behaviour.
小罗登的胃口很好，举止也很有绅士风度。

‘I like to dine here,’ he said to his aunt when he had completed his meal, at the conclusion of which, and after a decent grace by Sir Pitt, the younger son and heir was introduced, and was perched on a high chair by the Baronet’s side, while the daughter took possession of the place and the little wine-glass prepared for her near her mother. ‘I like to dine here,’ said Rawdon Minor, looking up at his relation’s kind face.
“我喜欢在这里用餐，”吃完饭后，他对姨妈说道。 用餐结束后，经过皮特爵士的体面恩典，小儿子和继承人被介绍了出来，并坐在一张高脚椅上在男爵身边，而女儿占据了这个地方，并在她母亲旁边为她准备了小酒杯。 “我喜欢在这里用餐，”罗登·米诺抬头看着他亲戚慈祥的脸庞说道。

‘Why?’ said the good Lady Jane.
“为什么？”善良的简女士问道。

‘I dine in the kitchen when I am at home,’ replied Rawdon Minor, ‘or else with Briggs.’ But Becky was so engaged with the Baronet, her host, pouring out a flood of compliments and delights and raptures, and admiring young Pitt Binkie, whom she declared to be the most beautiful, intelligent, noble-looking little creature, and so like his father, that she did not hear the remarks of her own flesh and blood at the other end of the broad shining table.
“当我在家的时候，我会在厨房里吃饭，”罗登·米诺回答道，“或者和布里格斯一起。”但是贝基对她的主人准男爵非常投入，倾诉了大量的赞美、喜悦和狂喜，并钦佩年轻人皮特·宾基，她宣称他是最美丽、最聪明、最高贵的小生灵，而且非常像他的父亲，以至于她没有听到在宽阔闪亮的桌子另一端的她自己的血肉之徒的评论。

As a guest, and it being the first night of his arrival, Rawdon the Second was allowed to sit up until the hour when tea being over, and a great gilt book being laid on the table before Sir Pitt, all the domestics of the family streamed in, and Sir Pitt read prayers. It was the first time the poor little boy had ever witnessed or heard of such a ceremonial.
作为客人，这是他抵达的第一晚，罗登二世被允许一直坐到茶结束的时候，一本伟大的镀金书被放在皮特爵士和所有家庭佣人面前的桌子上。源源不断地进来，皮特爵士念着祈祷文。这是这个可怜的小男孩第一次目睹或听说这样的仪式。

The house had been much improved even since the Baronet’s brief reign, and was pronounced by Becky to be perfect, charming, delightful, when she surveyed it in his company. As for little Rawdon, who examined it with the children for his guides, it seemed to him a perfect palace of enchantment and wonder. There were long galleries, and ancient state bedrooms, there were pictures and old China, and armour. There were the rooms in which Grandpapa died, and by which the children walked with terrified looks. ‘Who was Grandpapa?’ he asked; and they told him how he used to be very old, and used to be wheeled about in a garden-chair, and they showed him the garden-chair one day rotting in the out-house in which it had lain since the old gentleman had been wheeled away yonder to the church, of which the spire was glittering over the park elms.
自从准男爵短暂统治以来，这座房子已经有了很大的改善，贝基在他的陪伴下检查房子时，称其完美、迷人、令人愉快。至于小罗登，他和孩子们一起检查了它，作为他的向导，在他看来，这似乎是一座充满魅力和奇迹的完美宫殿。这里有长长的画廊、古老的国家卧室、图画、旧瓷器和盔甲。爷爷去世的时候，孩子们走过这些房间，脸上都是惊恐的表情。 “爷爷是谁？”他问道。他们告诉他，他已经很老了，常常坐在花园椅子上推来滚去，有一天，他们给他看了那张花园椅子，有一天，花园椅子在外屋里腐烂了，自从老先生去世以来，它就一直躺在那里。被推到那边的教堂，教堂的尖顶在公园的榆树上闪闪发光。

The brothers had good occupation for several mornings in examining the improvements which had been effected by Sir Pitt’s genius and economy. And as they walked or rode, and looked at them, they could talk without too much boring each other. And Pitt took care to tell Rawdon what a heavy outlay of money these improvements had occasioned, and that a man of landed and funded property was often very hard pressed for twenty pounds. ‘There is that new lodge-gate,’ said Pitt, pointing to it humbly with the bamboo cane, ‘I can no more pay for it before the dividends in January than I can fly.’
兄弟俩花了几个早上的时间检查皮特爵士的天才和经济所带来的改进。当他们走路或骑马时，看着他们，他们可以交谈，而不会让彼此感到太无聊。皮特小心翼翼地告诉罗登，这些改进造成了多么大的金钱支出，而一个拥有土地和资金支持的财产的人往往很难得到二十英镑。 “那是新的小屋大门，”皮特用竹杖谦恭地指着它说道，“在一月份的股息发放之前我无法支付它，就像我无法飞一样。”

‘I can lend you, Pitt, till then,’ Rawdon answered rather ruefully; and they went in and looked at the restored lodge, where the family arms were just new scraped in stone, and where old Mrs. Lock, for the first time these many long years, had tight doors, sound roofs, and whole windows.
“我可以借给你，皮特，到那时为止，”罗登相当遗憾地回答。他们进去看了看修复后的小屋，那里的家族纹章刚刚用石头刮过，老洛克太太多年来第一次有了紧闭的门、坚固的屋顶和完整的窗户。

Chapter XLV
第四十五章


Between Hampshire and London
汉普郡和伦敦之间

Sir Pitt Crawley had done more than repair fences and restore dilapidated lodges on the Queen’s Crawley estate. Like a wise man he had set to work to rebuild the injured popularity of his house and stop up the gaps and ruins in which his name had been left by his disreputable and thriftless old predecessor. He was elected for the borough speedily after his father’s demise; a magistrate, a member of parliament, a county magnate and representative of an ancient family, he made it his duty to show himself before the Hampshire public, subscribed handsomely to the county charities, called assiduously upon all the county folk, and laid himself out in a word to take that position in Hampshire, and in the Empire afterwards, to which he thought his prodigious talents justly entitled him. Lady Jane was instructed to be friendly with the Fuddlestones, and the Wapshots, and the other famous baronets, their neighbours. Their carriages might frequently be seen in the Queen’s Crawley avenue now; they dined pretty frequently at the Hall (where the cookery was so good that it was clear Lady Jane very seldom had a hand in it), and in return Pitt and his wife most energetically dined out in all sorts of weather and at all sorts of distances. For though Pitt did not care for joviality, being a frigid man of poor hearth and appetite, yet he considered that to be hospitable and condescending was quite incumbent on-his station, and every time that he got a headache from too long an after-dinner sitting, he felt that he was a martyr to duty. He talked about crops, corn-laws, politics, with the best country gentlemen. He (who had been formerly inclined to be a sad free-thinker on these points) entered into poaching and game preserving with ardour. He didn’t hunt; he wasn’t a hunting man; he was a man of books and peaceful habits; but he thought that the breed of horses must be kept up in the country, and that the breed of foxes must therefore be looked to, and for his part, if his friend, Sir Huddlestone Fuddlestone, liked to draw his country and meet as of old the F. hounds used to do at Queen’s Crawley, he should be happy to see him there, and the gentlemen of the Fuddlestone hunt. And to Lady Southdown’s dismay too he became more orthodox in his tendencies every day; gave up preaching in public and attending meeting-houses; went stoutly to church; called on the Bishop and all the Clergy at Winchester; and made no objection when the Venerable Archdeacon Trumper asked for a game of whist. What pangs must have been those of Lady Southdown, and what an utter castaway she must have thought her son-in-law for permitting such a godless diversion! And when, on the return of the family from an oratorio at Winchester, the Baronet announced to the young ladies that he should next year very probably take them to the ‘county balls,’ they worshipped him for his kindness. Lady Jane was only too obedient, and perhaps glad herself to go. The Dowager wrote off the direst descriptions of her daughter’s worldly behaviour to the authoress of the Washerwoman of Finchley Common at the Cape; and her house in Brighton being about this time unoccupied, returned to that watering-place, her absence being not very much deplored by her children. We may suppose, too, that Rebecca, on paying a second visit to Queen’s Crawley, did not feel particularly grieved at the absence of the lady of the medicine chest; though she wrote a Christmas letter to her Ladyship, in which she respectfully recalled herself to Lady Southdown’s recollection, spoke with gratitude of the delight which her Ladyship’s conversation had given her on the former visit, dilated on the kindness with which her Ladyship had treated her in sickness, and declared that everything at Queen’s Crawley reminded her of her absent friend.
皮特·克劳利爵士所做的不仅仅是修复女王克劳利庄园的栅栏和修复破旧的小屋。像一个智者一样，他开始努力重建他的房子受损的声望，并填补他声名狼藉、不节俭的前任留下的空白和废墟。在他父亲去世后，他很快就当选为该行政区的议员。作为一名地方法官、议员、县大亨和一个古老家族的代表，他以在汉普郡公众面前展示自己为己任，慷慨地捐助了县的慈善事业，孜孜不倦地号召所有县人民，并把自己摆在了面前。总之，他在汉普郡以及后来的帝国担任了这个职位，他认为自己的惊人才能理应获得这个职位。简夫人被指示要与福德尔斯通家族、沃普肖特家族以及其他著名的男爵和他们的邻居保持友好关系。现在，他们的马车可能经常出现在女王的克劳利大道上。他们经常在大厅吃饭（那里的厨艺非常好，很明显简夫人很少参与其中），作为回报，皮特和他的妻子在各种天气和各种场合下都精力充沛地外出就餐。距离。因为虽然皮特不喜欢快乐，因为他是一个冷淡的人，胃口不好，但他认为热情好客和居高临下是他的职责，每次他因时间太长而感到头痛时——坐在晚饭上，他觉得自己是一个尽职尽责的烈士。他与最好的乡村绅士谈论农作物、谷物法和政治。他（以前在这些问题上倾向于成为一个可悲的自由思想家）满怀热情地进入了偷猎和动物保护领域。 他不打猎；他不是一个打猎的人；他是一个博学多才、爱好和平的人。但他认为，马的品种必须在该国饲养，因此必须关注狐狸的品种，就他而言，如果他的朋友赫德尔斯通·福德尔斯通爵士喜欢画他的国家并从老F.猎犬曾经在女王克劳利做的事，他应该很高兴在那里见到他，以及弗德尔斯通狩猎的绅士们。令绍斯当夫人沮丧的是，他的倾向一天天变得更加正统。放弃在公共场合讲道和参加聚会所；坚决去教堂；拜访了温彻斯特的主教和所有神职人员；当尊敬的副主教特朗普要求玩惠斯特游戏时，他没有提出异议。绍斯当夫人一定感到多么痛苦，她一定认为她的女婿允许这种不敬虔的消遣，是多么彻底的失落啊！当一家人从温彻斯特的清唱剧回来时，男爵向年轻的女士们宣布他明年很可能会带她们去参加“郡舞会”，她们对他的善良表示崇拜。简夫人实在是太听话了，或许她自己也很乐意去。太后向《海角芬奇利公地的洗衣妇》的女作者写下了对她女儿世俗行为的最可怕的描述。她在布莱顿的房子大约此时无人居住，又回到了那个饮水处，她的孩子们并没有对她的缺席感到非常遗憾。 我们也可以假设，丽贝卡在第二次访问女王克劳利时，并没有因为药箱女士的缺席而感到特别悲伤；她没有感到特别难过。尽管她给夫人写了一封圣诞信，在信中她恭敬地回忆了绍斯当夫人的回忆，感激地谈到了夫人上次访问时的谈话给她带来的快乐，详细描述了夫人对她的友善她生病了，并宣称女王克劳利的一切都让她想起了她不在的朋友。

A great part of the altered demeanour and popularity of Sir Pitt Crawley might have been traced to the counsels of that astute little lady of Curzon Street. ‘You remain a Baronet—you consent to be a mere country gentleman,’ she said to him, while he had been her guest in London. ‘No, Sir Pitt Crawley, I know you better. I know your talents and your ambition. You fancy you hide them both, but you can conceal neither from me. I showed Lord Steyne your pamphlet on malt. He was familiar with it, and said it was in the opinion of the whole Cabinet the most masterly thing that had appeared on the subject. The Ministry has its eye upon you, and I know what you want. You want to distinguish yourself in Parliament; every one says you are the finest speaker in England (for your speeches at Oxford are still remembered). You want to be Member for the County, where, with your own vote and your borough at your back, you can command anything. And you want to be Baron Crawley of Queen’s Crawley, and will be before you die. I saw it all. I could read your heart, Sir Pitt. If I had a husband who possessed your intellect as he does your name, I sometimes think I should not be unworthy of him—but—but I am your kinswoman now,’ she added with a laugh. ‘Poor little penniless, I have got a little interest—and who knows, perhaps the mouse may be able to aid the lion.’ Pitt Crawley was amazed and enraptured with her speech. ‘How that woman comprehends me!’ he said. ‘I never could get Jane to read three pages of the malt pamphlet. She has no idea that I have commanding talents or secret ambition. So they remember my speaking at Oxford, do they? The rascals! Now that I represent my borough and may sit for the county, they begin to recollect me! Why, Lord Steyne cut me at the levee last year; they are beginning to find out that Pitt Crawley is some one at last. Yes, the man was always the same whom these people neglected: it was only the opportunity that was wanting, and I will show them now that I can speak and act as well as write. Achilles did not declare himself until they gave him the sword. I hold it now, and the world shall yet hear of Pitt Crawley.’
皮特·克劳利爵士的举止和受欢迎程度的改变，很大程度上可以追溯到柯松街那位精明的小女士的建议。 “你仍然是男爵——你同意成为一名纯粹的乡村绅士，”当他在伦敦做客时，她对他说。 “不，皮特·克劳利爵士，我更了解你。我知道你的才华和你的野心。你想把它们都藏起来，但你却无法向我隐瞒任何一个。我给斯泰因勋爵看了你关于麦芽的小册子。他对此很熟悉，并说整个内阁都认为这是关于这个问题的最精彩的事情。魔法部正在关注你，我知道你想要什么。您想在议会中脱颖而出；每个人都说你是英国最优秀的演讲家（因为你在牛津的演讲仍然被人们铭记）。你想成为县的议员，在那里，有了你自己的选票和你所在行政区的支持，你可以指挥任何事情。你想成为女王克劳利的克劳利男爵，并且会在你死之前实现。我看到了这一切。我能读懂你的心，皮特爵士。如果我有一个像你的名字一样拥有你的智慧的丈夫，有时我想我不应该配不上他——但是——但我现在是你的亲戚了，”她笑着补充道。 “可怜的小可怜，身无分文，我有了一点兴趣——谁知道呢，也许老鼠能帮助狮子。”皮特·克劳利对她的演讲感到惊讶和欣喜。 “那个女人多么理解我啊！”他说。 “我从来没能让简读过三页麦芽小册子。她不知道我有指挥才能或秘密野心。那么他们记得我在牛津的演讲，是吗？无赖们！现在我代表了我所在的行政区，并且可以代表县，他们开始记住我了！ 哎呀，斯泰因勋爵去年在堤坝上把我砍倒了；他们开始发现皮特·克劳利终于成为了其中的一员。是的，这个人总是被这些人忽视的那个人：只是缺少机会，现在我要向他们展示我可以说话、行动和写作。直到他们给了他剑之后，阿喀琉斯才宣布自己的身份。我现在握着它，世界将会听到皮特·克劳利的消息。’

Therefore it was that this roguish diplomatist has grown so hospitable; that he was so civil to oratorios and hospitals; so kind to Deans and Chapters; so generous in giving and accepting dinners; so uncommonly gracious to farmers on market-days; and so much interested about county business; and that the Christmas at the Hall was the gayest which had been known there for many a long day.
所以这个无赖的外交官才会变得如此热情好客。他对清唱剧和医院非常有礼貌；对院长和分会非常友善；慷慨地给予和接受晚餐；在赶集的日子里，他们对农民格外仁慈；对县里的生意非常感兴趣；大厅里的圣诞节是人们在漫长的一天里所知道的最欢乐的圣诞节。

On Christmas Day a great family gathering took place. All the Crawleys from the Rectory came to dine. Rebecca was as frank and fond of Mrs. Bute as if the other had never been her enemy; she was affectionately interested in the dear girls, and surprised at the progress which they had made in music since her time, and insisted upon encoring one of the duets out of the great song-books which Jim, grumbling, had been forced to bring under his arm from the Rectory. Mrs. Bute, perforce, was obliged to adopt a decent demeanour towards the little adventuress—of course being free to discourse with her daughters afterwards about the absurd respect with which Sir Pitt treated his sister-in-law. But Jim, who had sat next to her at dinner, declared she was a trump, and one and all of the Rector’s family agreed that the little Rawdon was a fine boy. They respected a possible baronet in the boy, between whom and the title there was only the little sickly pale Pitt Binkie.
圣诞节那天，举行了一次盛大的家庭聚会。教区长官邸的克劳利一家人都来吃饭了。丽贝卡对布特夫人既坦诚又喜爱，就好像对方从来都不是她的敌人一样。她对亲爱的女孩们充满了浓厚的兴趣，对她们自她那个时代以来在音乐方面取得的进步感到惊讶，并坚持从吉姆牢骚满腹地被迫收下的伟大歌曲书中翻唱一首二重唱。他的手臂来自教区长。布特夫人被迫对这位小冒险家采取得体的举止——当然，事后她可以自由地与她的女儿们谈论皮特爵士对待他嫂子的荒谬尊重。但晚餐时坐在她旁边的吉姆宣称她是王牌，而校长的家人也一致认为小罗登是个好孩子。他们尊重这个男孩可能的男爵身份，在他和这个头衔之间只有病态苍白的皮特·宾基（Pitt Binkie）。

The children were very good friends. Pitt Binkie was too little a dog for such a big dog as Rawdon to play with; and Matilda being only a girl, of course not fit companion for a young gentleman who was near eight years old, and going into jackets very soon. He took the command of this small party at once—the little girl and the little boy following him about with great reverence at such times as he condescended to sport with them. His happiness and pleasure in the country were extreme. The kitchen garden pleased him hugely, the flowers moderately, but the pigeons and the poultry, and the stables when he was allowed to visit them, were delightful objects to him. He resisted being kissed by the Misses Crawley, but he allowed Lady Jane sometimes to embrace him, and it was by her side that he liked to sit when, the signal to retire to the drawing-room being given, the ladies left the gentlemen to their claret—by her side rather than by his mother. For Rebecca, seeing that tenderness was the fashion, called Rawdon to her one evening and stooped down and kissed him in the presence of all the ladies.
孩子们是非常好的朋友。皮特·宾基对于罗登这样的大狗来说太小了，无法和它一起玩。玛蒂尔达只是一个女孩，当然不适合一位年近八岁、很快就要穿上夹克的年轻绅士。他立即接管了这个小团体的指挥权——当他屈尊与小男孩和小女孩和小男孩一起玩耍时，他们怀着极大的敬意跟着他。他在乡下的幸福和快乐是无比的。菜园让他非常高兴，鲜花也让他很高兴，但是鸽子和家禽，以及当他被允许参观时的马厩，对他来说都是令人愉快的事物。他拒绝克劳利小姐的亲吻，但有时他允许简夫人拥抱他，当女士们发出退到客厅的信号时，他喜欢坐在她身边，让先生们离开。他们的红葡萄酒——在她身边，而不是在他母亲身边。丽贝卡看到温柔已成为时尚，有一天晚上，她把罗登叫到身边，当着所有女士的面弯下腰亲吻他。

He looked her full in the face after the operation, trembling and turning very red, as his wont was when moved. ‘You never kiss me at home, Mamma,’ he said, at which there was a general silence and consternation and a by no means pleasant look in Becky’s eyes.
手术后，他正视着她的脸，浑身颤抖，脸色涨红，就像他被感动时的习惯一样。 “妈妈，你在家里从不亲吻我，”他说，贝基的眼神里一片沉默和惊愕，脸上的表情一点也不愉快。

Rawdon was fond of his sister-in-law, for her regard for his son. Lady Jane and Becky did not get on quite so well at this visit as on occasion of the former one, when the Colonel’s wife was bent upon pleasing. Those two speeches of the child struck rather a chill. Perhaps Sir Pitt was rather too attentive to her.
罗登很喜欢他的嫂子，因为她很尊重他的儿子。简夫人和贝基这次来访时相处得不如上一次，当时上校的妻子一心想讨好。孩子的这两句话，让人不寒而栗。也许皮特爵士对她太殷勤了。

But Rawdon, as became his age and size, was fonder of the society of the men than of the women, and never wearied of accompanying his sire to the stables, whither the Colonel retired to smoke his cigar —Jim, the Rector’s son, sometimes joining his cousin in that and other amusements. He and the Baronet’s keeper were very close friends, their mutual taste for ‘dawgs’ bringing them much together. On one day, Mr. James, the Colonel, and Horn, the keeper, went and shot pheasants, taking little Rawdon with them. On another most blissful morning, these four gentlemen partook of the amusement of rat-hunting in a barn, than which sport Rawdon as yet had never seen anything more noble. They stopped up the ends of certain drains in the barn, into the other openings of which ferrets were inserted, and then stood silently aloof, with uplifted stakes in their hands, and an anxious little terrier (Mr. James’s celebrated ‘dawg’ Forceps, indeed) scarcely breathing from excitement, listening motionless on three legs, to the faint squeaking of the rats below. Desperately bold at last, the persecuted animals bolted aboveground—the terrier accounted for one, the keeper for another; Rawdon, from flurry and excitement, missed his rat, but on the other hand he half-murdered a ferret.
但罗登，随着他的年龄和身材，更喜欢男人的社会而不是女人的社会，并且从不厌倦陪伴他的父亲去马厩，上校退休在那里抽雪茄——吉姆，教区长的儿子，有时和他的表弟一起参加这项活动和其他娱乐活动。他和从男爵的守护者是非常亲密的朋友，他们对“混蛋”的共同喜好使他们走到了一起。有一天，上校詹姆斯先生和看门人霍恩带着小罗登去打野鸡。在另一个最幸福的早晨，这四位绅士在谷仓里享受了捕鼠的乐趣，罗登从未见过比这更崇高的运动。他们堵住了谷仓里某些排水沟的末端，在其他开口处插入了雪貂，然后默默地站在远处，手里拿着举起的木桩，还有一只焦虑的小梗犬（詹姆斯先生著名的“dawg”镊子，确实如此）几乎没有因为兴奋而呼吸，一动不动地用三条腿听着下面老鼠微弱的吱吱声。最后，这些受迫害的动物勇敢地逃到了地面上——猎犬占了一个，饲养员占了另一个。罗登由于慌乱和兴奋，错过了他的老鼠，但另一方面，他半杀了一只雪貂。

But the greatest day of all was that on which Sir Huddlestone Fuddlestone’s hounds met upon the lawn at Queen’s Crawley.
但最伟大的一天是赫德尔斯通·福德尔斯通爵士的猎犬们在皇后克劳利的草坪上相遇的那一天。

That was a famous sight for little Rawdon. At half-past ten, Tom Moody, Sir Huddlestone Fuddlestone’s huntsman, was seen trotting up the avenue, followed by the noble pack of hounds in a compact body— the rear being brought up by the two whips clad in stained scarlet frocks—light hard-featured lads on well-bred lean horses, possessing marvellous dexterity in casting the points of their long heavy whips at the thinnest part of any dog’s skin who dares to straggle from the main body, or to take the slightest notice, or even so much as wink, at the hares and rabbits starting under their noses.
对于小罗登来说，这是一个著名的景象。十点半，人们看见汤姆·穆迪，赫德尔斯通·福德尔斯通爵士的猎人，沿着大道小跑，后面跟着一群身形紧凑的高贵猎犬——后面被两条穿着沾污的猩红色连衣裙的鞭子拉着——轻硬的-骑着良种瘦马的特色小伙子，拥有惊人的灵巧，可以将长而重的鞭子投向任何敢于从主体上掉下来的狗皮肤最薄的部分，或者对最轻微的注意，甚至如此多的狗就像眨眼一样，对着在他们鼻子底下活动的野兔和兔子。

Next comes boy Jack, Tom Moody’s son, who weighs five stone, measures eight-and-forty inches, and will never be any bigger. He is perched on a large raw-boned hunter, half-covered by a capacious saddle. This animal is Sir Huddlestone Fuddlestone’s favourite horse the Nob. Other horses, ridden by other small boys, arrive from time to time, awaiting their masters, who will come cantering on anon.
接下来是男孩杰克，汤姆·穆迪的儿子，他重五英石，身高八四十英寸，而且永远不会再大了。他坐在一个瘦骨嶙峋的猎人身上，半身被宽大的马鞍遮住。这种动物是赫德尔斯通·福德尔斯通爵士最喜欢的马“诺布”。其他的马，由其他小男孩骑着，不时地到来，等待着它们的主人，主人很快就会慢跑而来。

Tom Moody rides up to the door of the Hall, where he is welcomed by the butler, who offers him drink, which he declines. He and his pack then draw off into a sheltered corner of the lawn, where the dogs roll on the grass, and play or growl angrily at one another, ever and anon breaking out into furious fight speedily to be quelled by Tom’s voice, unmatched at rating, or the snaky thongs of the whips.
汤姆·穆迪骑马来到大厅门口，受到管家的欢迎，并为他提供了饮料，但他拒绝了。然后，他和他的狼群躲到草坪的一个隐蔽的角落里，狗们在草地上打滚，互相玩耍或愤怒地咆哮，时不时地爆发激烈的战斗，很快就被汤姆的声音平息了，汤姆的声音无与伦比。评级，或者鞭子的蛇形丁字裤。

Many young gentlemen canter up on thoroughbred hacks, spatter-dashed to the knee, and enter the house to drink cherry-brandy and pay their respects to the ladies, or, more modest and sportsmanlike, divest themselves of their mud-boots, exchange their hacks for their hunters, and warm their blood by a preliminary gallop round the lawn. Then they collect round the pack in the corner and talk with Tom Moody of past sport, and the merits of Sniveller and Diamond, and of the state of the country and of the wretched breed of foxes.
许多年轻绅士骑着纯种马驹慢跑，溅到膝盖上，进屋喝樱桃白兰地，向女士们致意，或者，更谦虚和有运动员精神，脱掉泥靴，交换自己的鞋子。为它们的猎人砍伐，并通过在草坪上的初步驰骋来温暖它们的血液。然后他们聚集在角落里的狼群周围，与汤姆·穆迪谈论过去的运动、斯尼弗勒和戴蒙德的优点、国家的状况和可怜的狐狸品种。

Sir Huddlestone presently appears mounted on a clever cob and rides up to the Hall, where he enters and does the civil thing by the ladies, after which, being a man of few words, he proceeds to business. The hounds are drawn up to the hall-door, and little Rawdon descends amongst them, excited yet half-alarmed by the caresses which they bestow upon him, at the thumps he receives from their waving tails, and at their canine bickerings, scarcely restrained by Tom Moody’s tongue and lash.
赫德尔斯通爵士很快出现在骑着一只聪明的玉米棒上，骑到大厅，在那里他进入并为女士们做一些礼貌的事情，之后，作为一个沉默寡言的人，他开始做生意。猎犬们被拉到大厅门口，小罗顿走下它们中间，它们对他的爱抚让他感到兴奋，但又有些惊慌，它们摇动的尾巴对他发出重击声，它们的狗几乎不受克制地争吵。汤姆·穆迪的舌头和鞭子。

Meanwhile, Sir Huddlestone has hoisted himself unwieldily on the Nob: ‘Let’s try Sowster’s Spinney, Tom,’ says the Baronet, ‘Farmer Mangle tells me there are two foxes in it.’ Tom blows his horn and trots off, followed by the pack, by the whips, by the young gents from Winchester, by the farmers of the neighbourhood, by the labourers of the parish on foot, with whom the day is a great holiday, Sir Huddlestone bringing up the rear with Colonel Crawley, and the whole cortege disappears down the avenue.
与此同时，赫德尔斯通爵士笨拙地站在诺布身上：“汤姆，我们来试试索斯特的斯宾尼吧，”从男爵说，“农夫曼格告诉我里面有两只狐狸。”汤姆吹响了喇叭，小跑着走了，狼群跟在后面，由鞭子，由来自温彻斯特的年轻绅士，由附近的农民，由教区步行的劳动者，与他们一起，这一天是一个伟大的假期，赫德尔斯通爵士与克劳利上校在后面，以及整个送行队伍消失在大街上。

The Reverend Bute Crawley (who has been too modest to appear at the public meet before his nephew’s windows), whom Tom Moody remembers forty years back a slender divine riding the wildest horses, jumping the widest brooks, and larking over the newest gates in the country— his Reverence, we say, happens to trot out from the Rectory Lane on his powerful black horse just as Sir Huddlestone passes; he joins the worthy Baronet. Hounds and horsemen disappear, and little Rawdon remains on the doorsteps, wondering and happy.
布特·克劳利牧师（他太谦虚了，没有出现在他侄子窗前的公众集会上），汤姆·穆迪记得四十年前，他是一位苗条的神，骑着最狂野的马，跳过最宽的小溪，在最新的大门上嬉戏。我们说，当赫德尔斯通爵士经过时，他的尊敬恰好骑着他那匹强大的黑马从教区长巷小跑出来；他加入了值得尊敬的从男爵的行列。猎犬和骑兵消失了，小罗登仍然站在门口，既好奇又快乐。

During the progress of this memorable holiday, little Rawdon, if he had got no special liking for his uncle, always awful and cold and locked up in his study, plunged in justice-business and surrounded by bailiffs and farmers—has gained the good graces of his married and maiden aunts, of the two little folks of the Hall, and of Jim of the Rectory, whom Sir Pitt is encouraging to pay his addresses to one of the young ladies, with an understanding doubtless that he shall be presented to the living when it shall be vacated by his fox-hunting old sire. Jim has given up that sport himself and confines himself to a little harmless duckor snipe-shooting, or a little quiet trifling with the rats during the Christmas holidays, after which he will return to the University and try and not be plucked, once more. He has already eschewed green coats, red neckcloths, and other worldly ornaments, and is preparing himself for a change in his condition. In this cheap and thrifty way Sir Pitt tries to pay off his debt to his family.
在这个令人难忘的节日期间，小罗登，如果不是特别喜欢他的叔叔，总是可怕而寒冷，被锁在书房里，一头扎进司法事业，周围都是法警和农民——他赢得了好感他的已婚姑姑和未婚的姑姑，大厅里的两个小家伙，还有教区长的吉姆，皮特爵士鼓励他向一位年轻女士致辞，毫无疑问，他将被介绍给一位年轻的女士。等他猎狐的老父亲腾出来后，他就可以继续生活了。吉姆自己也放弃了这项运动，只在圣诞假期期间进行一些无害的鸭子或狙击射击，或者安静地与老鼠玩耍，之后他将返回大学并再次尝试不被拔除。他已经放弃了绿色外套、红色领巾和其他世俗装饰品，并正在为改变自己的状况做好准备。皮特爵士试图以这种廉价而节俭的方式偿还对家人的债务。

Also before this merry Christmas was over, the Baronet had screwed up courage enough to give his brother another draft on his bankers, and for no less a sum than a hundred pounds, an act which caused Sir Pitt cruel pangs at first, but which made him glow afterwards to think himself one of the most generous of men. Rawdon and his son went away with the utmost heaviness of heart. Becky and the ladies parted with some alacrity, however, and our friend returned to London to commence those avocations with which we find her occupied when this chapter begins. Under her care the Crawley House in Great Gaunt Street was quite rejuvenescent and ready for the reception of Sir Pitt and his family, when the Baronet came to London to attend his duties in Parliament and to assume that position in the country for which his vast genius fitted him.
同样在这个快乐的圣诞节结束之前，男爵鼓起勇气，向他的兄弟再次向银行家汇票，金额不少于一百英镑，这一行为一开始让皮特爵士感到残酷的痛苦，但后来后来他欣喜若狂地认为自己是最慷慨的人之一。罗登和儿子怀着极其沉重的心情离开了。然而，贝基和女士们很快就分手了，我们的朋友回到了伦敦，开始了本章开始时我们发现她忙着做的那些事情。在她的照料下，大冈特街的克劳利宫焕然一新，准备好接待皮特爵士和他的家人，当时皮特爵士来到伦敦履行他在议会的职责，并在这个国家担任他的巨大天才的职位适合他。

For the first session, this profound dissembler hid his projects and never opened his lips but to present a petition from Mudbury. But he attended assiduously in his place and learned thoroughly the routine and business of the House. At home he gave himself up to the perusal of Blue Books, to the alarm and wonder of Lady Jane, who thought he was killing himself by late hours and intense application. And he made acquaintance with the ministers, and the chiefs of his party, determining to rank as one of them before many years were over.
在第一次会议上，这个深刻的谎言家隐藏了他的计划，除了提交一份来自马德伯里的请愿书外，从未开口说话。但他在自己的岗位上刻苦钻研，彻底了解了众议院的日常事务和事务。在家里，他专心致志地研读《蓝皮书》，这引起了简女士的警觉和惊奇，她认为他加班加点和紧张工作正在自杀。他结识了部长们和党内的首领，并决定在许多年后成为他们中的一员。

Lady Jane’s sweetness and kindness had inspired Rebecca with such a contempt for her ladyship as the little woman found no small difficulty in concealing. That sort of goodness and simplicity which Lady Jane possessed annoyed our friend Becky, and it was impossible for her at times not to show, or to let the other divine, her scorn. Her presence, too, rendered Lady Jane uneasy. Her husband talked constantly with Becky. Signs of intelligence seemed to pass between them, and Pitt spoke with her on subjects on which he never thought of discoursing with Lady Jane. The latter did not understand them, to be sure, but it was mortifying to remain silent; still more mortifying to know that you had nothing to say, and hear that little audacious Mrs. Rawdon dashing on from subject to subject, with a word for every man, and a joke always pat; and to sit in one’s own house alone, by the fireside, and watching all the men round your rival.
简夫人的甜蜜和善良，让丽贝卡对她的贵妇人产生了如此的蔑视，而这个小女人发现隐藏起来不是什么小困难。简女士所拥有的那种善良和单纯惹恼了我们的朋友贝基，她有时不可能不表现出她的蔑视，或者让别人看出她的蔑视。她的出现也让简夫人感到不安。她的丈夫经常与贝基交谈。他们之间似乎传递着智慧的迹象，皮特与她谈论了他从未想过与简夫人谈论的话题。后者当然不明白他们的意思，但保持沉默是令人羞愧的。更令人羞愧的是，你知道自己无话可说，听到那个大胆的罗登夫人从一个话题到另一个话题，对每个人都有一个词，而且总是有一个笑话。独自坐在自己家里的炉边，看着所有的人围着你的对手。

In the country, when Lady Jane was telling stories to the children, who clustered about her knees (little Rawdon into the bargain, who was very fond of her), and Becky came into the room, sneering with green scornful eyes, poor Lady Jane grew silent under those baleful glances. Her simple little fancies shrank away tremulously, as fairies in the story-books, before a superior bad angel. She could not go on, although Rebecca, with the smallest inflection of sarcasm in her voice, besought her to continue that charming story. And on her side gentle thoughts and simple pleasures were odious to Mrs. Becky; they discorded with her; she hated people for liking them; she spurned children and children-lovers. ‘I have no taste for bread and butter,’ she would say, when caricaturing Lady Jane and her ways to my Lord Steyne.
在乡下，当简夫人给孩子们讲故事时，孩子们聚集在她的膝盖上（小罗登参与了讨价还价，他非常喜欢她），贝基走进房间，用绿色轻蔑的眼睛冷笑，可怜的简夫人在那些恶毒的目光下沉默了。她简单的小幻想在一个优越的坏天使面前颤抖着退缩，就像故事书里的仙女一样。她无法继续下去，尽管丽贝卡的声音中带着一丝讽刺，恳求她继续讲这个迷人的故事。而贝基夫人则厌恶温柔的想法和简单的快乐。他们与她不和；她讨厌人们喜欢他们；她拒绝儿童和儿童爱好者。 “我对面包和黄油没有兴趣，”当她讽刺简夫人和她对斯泰恩勋爵的态度时，她会说。

‘No more has a certain person for holy water,’ his lordship replied with a bow and a grin and a great jarring laugh afterwards.
“不再有特定的人来提供圣水了，”勋爵大人鞠了一躬，咧嘴一笑，随后发出一阵刺耳的大笑。

So these two ladies did not see much of each other except upon those occasions when the younger brother’s wife, having an object to gain from the other, frequented her. They my-loved and my-deared each other assiduously, but kept apart generally, whereas Sir Pitt, in the midst of his multiplied avocations, found daily time to see his sister-in-law.
因此，这两位女士很少见面，除了弟弟的妻子出于某种目的而经常拜访她的时候。他们是我所爱的和我所亲爱的，彼此孜孜不倦地相处，但总体上还是分开的，而皮特爵士在他繁重的爱好中，每天都会抽出时间去看他的嫂子。

On the occasion of his first Speaker’s dinner, Sir Pitt took the opportunity of appearing before his sister-in-law in his uniform— that old diplomatic suit which he had worn when attache to the Pumpernickel legation.
在第一次出席议长晚宴时，皮特爵士趁机穿着制服出现在他的嫂子面前——那套旧外交服是他在裸麦公使馆随员时穿过的。

Becky complimented him upon that dress and admired him almost as much as his own wife and children, to whom he displayed himself before he set out. She said that it was only the thoroughbred gentleman who could wear the Court suit with advantage: it was only your men of ancient race whom the culotte courte became. Pitt looked down with complacency at his legs, which had not, in truth, much more symmetry or swell than the lean Court sword which dangled by his side—looked down at his legs, and thought in his heart that he was killing.
贝基称赞他的这件衣服，并且几乎像崇拜他自己的妻子和孩子一样崇拜他，他在出发前向他们展示了自己。她说，只有纯种绅士才能穿着宫廷西装，只有你们古代的男人才能穿裙裤。皮特得意地低头看着自己的双腿，事实上，它并不比他身边悬挂的那把瘦长的宫廷剑对称或肿胀得多——低头看着自己的双腿，心里认为他在杀人。

When he was gone, Mrs. Becky made a caricature of his figure, which she showed to Lord Steyne when he arrived. His lordship carried off the sketch, delighted with the accuracy of the resemblance. He had done Sir Pitt Crawley the honour to meet him at Mrs. Becky’s house and had been most gracious to the new Baronet and member. Pitt was struck too by the deference with which the great Peer treated his sister-in-law, by her ease and sprightliness in the conversation, and by the delight with which the other men of the party listened to her talk. Lord Steyne made no doubt but that the Baronet had only commenced his career in public life, and expected rather anxiously to hear him as an orator; as they were neighbours (for Great Gaunt Street leads into Gaunt Square, whereof Gaunt House, as everybody knows, forms one side) my lord hoped that as soon as Lady Steyne arrived in London she would have the honour of making the acquaintance of Lady Crawley. He left a card upon his neighbour in the course of a day or two, having never thought fit to notice his predecessor, though they had lived near each other for near a century past.
当他离开后，贝基夫人为他的身材画了一幅漫画，当斯泰因勋爵到达时，她将其展示给他看。勋爵大人拿走了草图，对相似的准确性感到高兴。他让皮特·克劳利爵士荣幸地在贝基夫人家里见到了他，并对这位新从男爵和成员非常客气。皮特也对这位伟大的皮尔对待他嫂子的尊重、她在谈话中的轻松和活泼以及聚会中其他人听她讲话的高兴程度感到震惊。斯泰因勋爵毫不怀疑，从男爵才刚刚开始他的公共生活生涯，并相当焦急地期待着听到他作为演说家。因为他们是邻居（因为大冈特街通向冈特广场，大家都知道，冈特宫位于冈特广场的一侧），我的勋爵希望斯泰因夫人一抵达伦敦，她就有幸结识克劳利夫人。一两天后，他在邻居身上留下了一张卡片，尽管他们已经住在附近近一个世纪了，但他从未想过注意到他的前任。

In the midst of these intrigues and fine parties and wise and brilliant personages Rawdon felt himself more and more isolated every day. He was allowed to go to the club more; to dine abroad with bachelor friends; to come and go when he liked, without any questions being asked. And he and Rawdon the younger many a time would walk to Gaunt Street and sit with the lady and the children there while Sir Pitt was closeted with Rebecca, on his way to the House, or on his return from it.
在这些阴谋、盛大的聚会和明智而杰出的人物中间，罗登感到自己一天比一天孤立。他被允许更多地去俱乐部；与单身朋友在国外用餐；他想来就来，想走就走，不问任何问题。很多时候，他和小罗登会步行到冈特街，与那位女士和孩子们坐在一起，而皮特爵士则在去众议院的路上或从众议院回来时，与丽贝卡密室。

The ex-Colonel would sit for hours in his brother’s house very silent, and thinking and doing as little as possible. He was glad to be employed of an errand; to go and make inquiries about a horse or a servant, or to carve the roast mutton for the dinner of the children. He was beat and cowed into laziness and submission. Delilah had imprisoned him and cut his hair off, too. The bold and reckless young blood of ten-years back was subjugated and was turned into a torpid, submissive, middle-aged, stout gentleman.
这位前上校会在他哥哥的家里一坐就是几个小时，一言不发，尽可能少地思考和做事。他很高兴受雇执行一项任务。去打听马匹或仆人的情况，或者为孩子们做晚餐的烤羊肉。他被殴打和恐吓，变得懒惰和屈服。黛利拉囚禁了他，还剪掉了他的头发。十年前的豪放少年气被征服，变成了一个迟钝、顺从的中年粗壮绅士。

And poor Lady Jane was aware that Rebecca had captivated her husband, although she and Mrs. Rawdon my-deared and my-loved each other every day they met.
可怜的简夫人知道丽贝卡已经迷住了她的丈夫，尽管她和罗登夫人每天见面，我亲爱的，我爱的。

Chapter XLVI
第四十六章


Struggles and Trials
挣扎与考验

Our friends at Brompton were meanwhile passing their Christmas after their fashion and in a manner by no means too cheerful.
与此同时，我们在布朗普顿的朋友们正在以一种不太愉快的方式过着他们的圣诞节。

Out of the hundred pounds a year, which was about the amount of her income, the Widow Osborne had been in the habit of giving up nearly three-fourths to her father and mother, for the expenses of herself and her little boy. With #120 more, supplied by Jos, this family of four people, attended by a single Irish servant who also did for Clapp and his wife, might manage to live in decent comfort through the year, and hold up their heads yet, and be able to give a friend a dish of tea still, after the storms and disappointments of their early life. Sedley still maintained his ascendency over the family of Mr. Clapp, his ex-clerk. Clapp remembered the time when, sitting on the edge of the chair, he tossed off a bumper to the health of ‘Mrs. S—, Miss Emmy, and Mr. Joseph in India,’ at the merchant’s rich table in Russell Square. Time magnified the splendour of those recollections in the honest clerk’s bosom. Whenever he came up from the kitchen-parlour to the drawing-room and partook of tea or ginand-water with Mr. Sedley, he would say, ‘This was not what you was accustomed to once, sir,’ and as gravely and reverentially drink the health of the ladies as he had done in the days of their utmost prosperity. He thought Miss ‘Melia’s playing the divinest music ever performed, and her the finest lady. He never would sit down before Sedley at the club even, nor would he have that gentleman’s character abused by any member of the society. He had seen the first men in London shaking hands with Mr. S—; he said, ‘He’d known him in times when Rothschild might be seen on ‘Change with him any day, and he owed him personally everythink.’
奥斯本寡妇每年一百英镑，大约是她的收入，她习惯于将近四分之三交给她的父母，用于她自己和小男孩的开支。有了乔斯提供的#120，这个四口之家有一个爱尔兰仆人照顾，他也为克拉普和他的妻子做事，可能会设法在这一年中过上舒适的生活，并抬起头来，并成为在经历了早年生活的风雨和失望之后，仍然能够给朋友送上一盘茶。塞德利仍然保持着对他的前职员克拉普先生家族的优势。克拉普记得有一次，他坐在椅子边缘，扔下一个保险杠来祝愿“夫人”的健康。 S——艾美小姐和约瑟夫先生在印度”，在罗素广场商人的丰盛餐桌上。时间让这位诚实的店员心中的回忆更加辉煌。每当他从厨房客厅来到客厅，与塞德利先生一起喝茶或杜松子酒时，他都会说：“先生，这不是您以前习惯的。”并且语气同样严肃而恭敬。为女士们的健康干杯，就像他在她们最繁荣的日子里所做的那样。他认为梅莉亚小姐正在演奏有史以来最神圣的音乐，她是最美丽的女士。即使在俱乐部里，他也永远不会坐在塞德利面前，他也不会让社会上的任何成员滥用这位绅士的品格。他见过伦敦第一批与S先生握手的人——；他说，“当罗斯柴尔德出现在‘随时与他改变’的节目中时，他就认识他了，他个人在所有方面都欠他的。”

Clapp, with the best of characters and handwritings, had been able very soon after his master’s disaster to find other employment for himself. ‘Such a little fish as me can swim in any bucket,’ he used to remark, and a member of the house from which old Sedley had seceded was very glad to make use of Mr. Clapp’s services and to reward them with a comfortable salary. In fine, all Sedley’s wealthy friends had dropped off one by one, and this poor exdependent still remained faithfully attached to him.
克拉普拥有最好的性格和笔迹，在他的主人遭遇灾难后很快就为自己找到了其他工作。他常说：“像我这样的小鱼可以在任何桶里游泳。”老塞德利脱离的家族的一位成员非常高兴利用克拉普先生的服务，并以丰厚的薪水奖励他们。总而言之，塞德利所有富有的朋友都一一离去，而这个可怜的流亡者仍然忠实地依恋着他。

Out of the small residue of her income which Amelia kept back for herself, the widow had need of all the thrift and care possible in order to enable her to keep her darling boy dressed in such a manner as became George Osborne’s son, and to defray the expenses of the little school to which, after much misgiving and reluctance and many secret pangs and fears on her own part, she had been induced to send the lad. She had sat up of nights conning lessons and spelling over crabbed grammars and geography books in order to teach them to Georgy. She had worked even at the Latin accidence, fondly hoping that she might be capable of instructing him in that language. To part with him all day, to send him out to the mercy of a schoolmaster’s cane and his schoolfellows’ roughness, was almost like weaning him over again to that weak mother, so tremulous and full of sensibility. He, for his part, rushed off to the school with the utmost happiness. He was longing for the change. That childish gladness wounded his mother, who was herself so grieved to part with him. She would rather have had him more sorry, she thought, and then was deeply repentant within herself for daring to be so selfish as to wish her own son to be unhappy.
阿米莉亚为自己保留了一小部分收入，寡妇需要尽可能节俭和照顾，以便让她亲爱的儿子穿得像乔治·奥斯本的儿子那样，并支付费用她自己也经历了许多疑虑和不情愿以及许多隐秘的痛苦和恐惧之后，才被说服把这个小伙子送到那所小学校去。为了教给乔治，她彻夜不眠地上课，拼读那些晦涩难懂的语法和地理书籍。她甚至在拉丁语方面也下了功夫，满怀希望地希望自己能够用那种语言指导他。整天与他分离，把他送去接受校长的手杖和同学的粗暴对待，几乎就像把他断奶给那个虚弱的母亲，那么颤抖而充满感情。他则满心欢喜地赶往学校。他渴望改变。这种孩子气的快乐伤害了他的母亲，她自己也因与他分离而感到悲伤。她想，她宁愿让他更加难过，然后内心深深地悔恨自己竟敢如此自私地希望自己的儿子不快乐。

Georgy made great progress in the school, which was kept by a friend of his mother’s constant admirer, the Rev. Mr. Binny. He brought home numberless prizes and testimonials of ability. He told his mother countless stories every night about his school-companions: and what a fine fellow Lyons was, and what a sneak Sniffin was, and how Steel’s father actually supplied the meat for the establishment, whereas Golding’s mother came in a carriage to fetch him every Saturday, and how Neat had straps to his trowsers—might he have straps?—and how Bull Major was so strong (though only in Eutropius) that it was believed he could lick the Usher, Mr. Ward, himself. So Amelia learned to know every one of the boys in that school as well as Georgy himself, and of nights she used to help him in his exercises and puzzle her little head over his lessons as eagerly as if she was herself going in the morning into the presence of the master. Once, after a certain combat with Master Smith, George came home to his mother with a black eye, and bragged prodigiously to his parent and his delighted old grandfather about his valour in the fight, in which, if the truth was known he did not behave with particular heroism, and in which he decidedly had the worst. But Amelia has never forgiven that Smith to this day, though he is now a peaceful apothecary near Leicester Square.
乔治在学校里取得了很大的进步，这所学校是由他母亲的忠实崇拜者宾尼牧师先生的一个朋友管理的。他带回了无数的奖项和能力证明。每天晚上，他都会给母亲讲无数关于他学校同学的故事：里昂是一个多么优秀的小伙子，斯尼芬是多么狡猾的一个人，斯蒂尔的父亲实际上是如何为餐厅供应肉类的，而戈尔丁的母亲却坐着马车来取肉。每个星期六，尼特的裤子上都有带子——他可能有带子吗？——以及公牛少校如何如此强壮（尽管只在欧特罗皮乌斯），以至于人们相信他可以亲自舔引座员，沃德先生。因此，阿米莉亚学会了了解那所学校的每一个男孩以及乔治本人，晚上她常常帮助他做练习，并用她的小脑袋热切地思考他的课程，就像她自己早上要上学一样。大师的存在。有一次，在与史密斯大师进行了一场战斗之后，乔治眼睛被打肿了，回到了母亲身边，向他的父母和他高兴的老祖父大肆吹嘘他在战斗中的英勇，如果真相为人所知的话，他并没有他表现得特别英雄主义，而他的表现无疑是最糟糕的。但阿米莉亚至今仍未原谅史密斯，尽管他现在是莱斯特广场附近的一名和平药剂师。

In these quiet labours and harmless cares the gentle widow’s life was passing away, a silver hair or two marking the progress of time on her head and a line deepening ever so little on her fair forehead. She used to smile at these marks of time. ‘What matters it,’ she asked, ‘For an old woman like me?’ All she hoped for was to live to see her son great, famous, and glorious, as he deserved to be. She kept his copy-books, his drawings, and compositions, and showed them about in her little circle as if they were miracles of genius. She confided some of these specimens to Miss Dobbin, to show them to Miss Osborne, George’s aunt, to show them to Mr. Osborne himself—to make that old man repent of his cruelty and ill feeling towards him who was gone. All her husband’s faults and foibles she had buried in the grave with him: she only remembered the lover, who had married her at all sacrifices, the noble husband, so brave and beautiful, in whose arms she had hung on the morning when he had gone away to fight, and die gloriously for his king. From heaven the hero must be smiling down upon that paragon of a boy whom he had left to comfort and console her. We have seen how one of George’s grandfathers (Mr. Osborne), in his easy chair in Russell Square, daily grew more violent and moody, and how his daughter, with her fine carriage, and her fine horses, and her name on half the public charity-lists of the town, was a lonely, miserable, persecuted old maid. She thought again and again of the beautiful little boy, her brother’s son, whom she had seen. She longed to be allowed to drive in the fine carriage to the house in which he lived, and she used to look out day after day as she took her solitary drive in the park, in hopes that she might see him. Her sister, the banker’s lady, occasionally condescended to pay her old home and companion a visit in Russell Square. She brought a couple of sickly children attended by a prim nurse, and in a faint genteel giggling tone cackled to her sister about her fine acquaintance, and how her little Frederick was the image of Lord Claud Lollypop and her sweet Maria had been noticed by the Baroness as they were driving in their donkey-chaise at Roehampton. She urged her to make her papa do something for the darlings. Frederick she had determined should go into the Guards; and if they made an elder son of him (and Mr. Bullock was positively ruining and pinching himself to death to buy land), how was the darling girl to be provided for? ‘I expect YOU, dear,’ Mrs. Bullock would say, ‘for of course my share of our Papa’s property must go to the head of the house, you know. Dear Rhoda McMull will disengage the whole of the Castletoddy property as soon as poor dear Lord Castletoddy dies, who is quite epileptic; and little Macduff McMull will be Viscount Castletoddy. Both the Mr. Bludyers of Mincing Lane have settled their fortunes on Fanny Bludyer’s little boy. My darling Frederick must positively be an eldest son; and—and do ask Papa to bring us back his account in Lombard Street, will you, dear? It doesn’t look well, his going to Stumpy and Rowdy’s.’ After which kind of speeches, in which fashion and the main chance were blended together, and after a kiss, which was like the contact of an oyster—Mrs. Frederick Bullock would gather her starched nurslings and simper back into her carriage.
在这些安静的劳动和无害的关怀中，这位温柔的寡妇的生命正在逝去，一两根银发在她的头上标志着岁月的流逝，在她美丽的额头上，一条皱纹越来越浅。她曾经对这些时间的痕迹微笑。 “对于像我这样的老妇人来说，这有什么关系呢？”她所希望的只是活着看到她的儿子伟大、出名、光荣，这是他应得的。她保留了他的习字本、绘画和作品，并在她的小圈子里展示它们，就好像它们是天才的奇迹一样。她把其中一些标本交给了多宾小姐，让他们拿给乔治的姨妈奥斯本小姐看，让奥斯本先生本人看——让那个老人悔改他对去世的他的残忍和恶感。她丈夫所有的缺点和弱点，她都和他一起埋进了坟墓：她只记得那个情人，他不惜一切牺牲娶了她，高贵的丈夫，如此勇敢和美丽，在他结婚的那天早上，她挂在他的怀里。去战斗，并为他的国王光荣地死去。英雄一定在天上对着那个男孩的典范微笑着，他留下了这个男孩来安慰她。我们看到乔治的一位祖父（奥斯本先生）坐在罗素广场的安乐椅上，每天变得更加暴力和喜怒无常，也看到他的女儿如何拥有优雅的举止，美丽的马匹，以及她的名字出现在半个地球上。镇上的公共慈善机构名单上，有一个孤独、悲惨、受迫害的老处女。她一次又一次地想起她见过的那个漂亮的小男孩，她哥哥的儿子。她渴望被允许乘坐精美的马车去他住的房子，当她在公园里独自开车时，她常常日复一日地向外张望，希望能见到他。 她的姐姐，银行家的夫人，偶尔会屈尊去拜访她在罗素广场的老家和同伴。她带着两个体弱多病的孩子，由一位拘谨的护士照顾，她用一种淡淡的、有教养的咯咯笑声向她姐姐讲述她的好朋友，以及她的小弗雷德里克是克劳德·棒棒糖勋爵的形象，而她可爱的玛丽亚是如何被姐姐注意到的。男爵夫人在罗汉普顿驾驶着驴车。她敦促她让她的爸爸为宝贝们做点什么。她决定弗雷德里克应该加入近卫军。如果他们给他生了一个大儿子（而布洛克先生为了买地简直是毁了自己，掐死了自己），那么这个可爱的女孩该如何养活呢？ “亲爱的，我期待着你，”布洛克夫人会说，“当然，我在爸爸财产中的份额必须归一家之主所有，你知道。”一旦可怜的亲爱的卡斯尔托迪勋爵去世，亲爱的罗达·麦克穆尔就会脱离卡斯尔托迪的整个财产，因为他患有癫痫症；小麦克德夫·麦克穆尔将成为卡斯尔托迪子爵。明辛巷的布鲁迪尔先生都把自己的命运落在了范妮·布鲁迪尔的小儿子身上。我亲爱的弗雷德里克肯定是我的长子；还有——亲爱的，请爸爸把他在朗伯德街的账户带回来，好吗？看起来不太好，他要去Stumpy和Rowdy’s。’在这样的演讲之后，时尚和主要机会混合在一起，在一个吻之后，就像牡蛎的接触——夫人。弗雷德里克·布洛克 (Frederick Bullock) 会收拾起她那浆过的婴儿，笑着回到她的马车里。

Every visit which this leader of ton paid to her family was more unlucky for her. Her father paid more money into Stumpy and Rowdy’s. Her patronage became more and more insufferable. The poor widow in the little cottage at Brompton, guarding her treasure there, little knew how eagerly some people coveted it.
这位大佬的每一次拜访她的家人，对她来说都更加不幸。她父亲向 Stumpy 和 Rowdy’s 投入了更多的钱。她的庇护变得越来越令人难以忍受。布朗普顿小屋里的可怜寡妇守卫着她的宝藏，但她不知道有些人是多么渴望得到它。

On that night when Jane Osborne had told her father that she had seen his grandson, the old man had made her no reply, but he had shown no anger—and had bade her good-night on going himself to his room in rather a kindly voice. And he must have meditated on what she said and have made some inquiries of the Dobbin family regarding her visit, for a fortnight after it took place, he asked her where was her little French watch and chain she used to wear?
那天晚上，当简·奥斯本告诉她父亲，她看到了他的孙子时，老人没有回答她，但他也没有表现出愤怒，而是向她道了晚安，然后以一种相当和善的方式回了自己的房间。嗓音。他肯定对她所说的话进行了深思熟虑，并就她来访的情况询问了多宾一家，在事情发生后的两周内，他问她以前戴的法国小手表和链子在哪里？

‘I bought it with my money, sir,’ she said in a great fright.
“我用我的钱买的，先生，”她惊恐地说。

‘Go and order another like it, or a better if you can get it,’ said the old gentleman and lapsed again into silence.
“去再点一份类似的，或者如果你能买到更好的，”老先生说，然后又陷入了沉默。

Of late the Misses Dobbin more than once repeated their entreaties to Amelia, to allow George to visit them. His aunt had shown her inclination; perhaps his grandfather himself, they hinted, might be disposed to be reconciled to him. Surely, Amelia could not refuse such advantageous chances for the boy. Nor could she, but she acceded to their overtures with a very heavy and suspicious heart, was always uneasy during the child’s absence from her, and welcomed him back as if he was rescued out of some danger. He brought back money and toys, at which the widow looked with alarm and jealousy; she asked him always if he had seen any gentleman—‘Only old Sir William, who drove him about in the four-wheeled chaise, and Mr. Dobbin, who arrived on the beautiful bay horse in the afternoon—in the green coat and pink neck-cloth, with the gold-headed whip, who promised to show him the Tower of London and take him out with the Surrey hounds.’ At last, he said, ‘There was an old gentleman, with thick eyebrows, and a broad hat, and large chain and seals.’ He came one day as the coachman was lunging Georgy round the lawn on the gray pony. ‘He looked at me very much. He shook very much. I said ‘My name is Norval’ after dinner. My aunt began to cry. She is always crying.’ Such was George’s report on that night.
最近，多宾小姐不止一次地恳求阿米莉亚允许乔治去看望她们。他的姨妈已经表明了她的意愿。他们暗示，也许他的祖父本人可能愿意与他和解。当然，阿米莉亚不能拒绝这个男孩如此有利的机会。她也不能，但她怀着非常沉重和怀疑的心情接受了他们的提议，在孩子离开她身边时总是感到不安，并欢迎他回来，就像他从危险中获救一样。他带回了钱和玩具，寡妇用惊慌和嫉妒的目光看着这些。她总是问他是否见过任何绅士——“只有老威廉爵士，他开着四轮马车载着他到处走；还有多宾先生，他下午骑着美丽的海湾马来了——穿着绿色和粉红色的外套。”颈布，带着金头鞭子，他答应带他参观伦敦塔，并把他和萨里猎犬一起带出去。”最后，他说：“有一位老绅士，浓眉，宽阔的胸膛。帽子、大链子和海豹。”有一天，当车夫骑着灰色小马在草坪上猛冲乔治时，他来了。 ‘他非常看着我。他摇晃得很厉害。晚饭后我说“我叫诺瓦尔”。我姨妈开始哭了。她总是在哭。”这就是乔治那天晚上的报告。

Then Amelia knew that the boy had seen his grandfather; and looked out feverishly for a proposal which she was sure would follow, and which came, in fact, in a few days afterwards. Mr. Osborne formally offered to take the boy and make him heir to the fortune which he had intended that his father should inherit. He would make Mrs. George Osborne an allowance, such as to assure her a decent competency. If Mrs. George Osborne proposed to marry again, as Mr. O. heard was her intention, he would not withdraw that allowance. But it must be understood that the child would live entirely with his grandfather in Russell Square, or at whatever other place Mr. O. should select, and that he would be occasionally permitted to see Mrs. George Osborne at her own residence. This message was brought or read to her in a letter one day, when her mother was from home and her father absent as usual in the City.
然后阿米莉亚知道这个男孩看到了他的祖父；她热切地寻找一个她确信会遵循的提议，事实上，几天后它就来了。奥斯本先生正式提出要收留这个男孩，让他继承他原本打算让他父亲继承的财产。他会给乔治·奥斯本夫人一笔津贴，以保证她有良好的能力。如果乔治·奥斯本夫人提议再婚，正如 O. 先生听说的那样，他不会撤回这笔津贴。但必须明白的是，孩子将完全和他的祖父一起住在罗素广场，或者O先生选择的任何其他地方，并且他偶尔会被允许在乔治·奥斯本夫人自己的住所见见她。有一天，当她的母亲不在家而她的父亲像往常一样不在城里时，这条信息是在一封信中带给她或读给她的。

She was never seen angry but twice or thrice in her life, and it was in one of these moods that Mr. Osborne’s attorney had the fortune to behold her. She rose up trembling and flushing very much as soon as, after reading the letter, Mr. Poe handed it to her, and she tore the paper into a hundred fragments, which she trod on. ‘I marry again! I take money to part from my child! Who dares insult me by proposing such a thing? Tell Mr. Osborne it is a cowardly letter, sir—a cowardly letter—I will not answer it. I wish you good morning, sir—and she bowed me out of the room like a tragedy Queen,’ said the lawyer who told the story.
她一生中只见过两三次生气，奥斯本先生的律师正是在这种情绪中见到了她。读完信后，坡先生把信递给她，她立即站了起来，浑身发抖，脸红了，她把信撕成一百块，踩在上面。 ‘我又结婚了！我拿钱跟孩子分开！谁敢提出这样的事来侮辱我？告诉奥斯本先生，这是一封胆怯的信，先生——一封胆怯的信——我不会回复。我祝你早上好，先生——她像悲剧女王一样把我从房间里鞠躬，”讲述这个故事的律师说道。

Her parents never remarked her agitation on that day, and she never told them of the interview. They had their own affairs to interest them, affairs which deeply interested this innocent and unconscious lady. The old gentleman, her father, was always dabbling in speculation. We have seen how the wine company and the coal company had failed him. But, prowling about the City always eagerly and restlessly still, he lighted upon some other scheme, of which he thought so well that he embarked in it in spite of the remonstrances of Mr. Clapp, to whom indeed he never dared to tell how far he had engaged himself in it. And as it was always Mr. Sedley’s maxim not to talk about money matters before women, they had no inkling of the misfortunes that were in store for them until the unhappy old gentleman was forced to make gradual confessions.
她的父母从未提及她那天的激动，她也从未告诉他们这次采访的事情。他们有自己感兴趣的事情，这些事情对这位天真无知的女士深感兴趣。这位老先生，也就是她的父亲，总是热衷于猜测。我们已经看到了葡萄酒公司和煤炭公司是如何让他失望的。但是，他总是热切地、焦躁不安地在这座城市里徘徊，他想到了一些其他的计划，他对这个计划深思熟虑，因此不顾克拉普先生的抗议，他开始实施它，事实上，他从来不敢告诉克拉普先生到底有多远。他自己也参与其中。由于塞德利先生的座右铭是不要在女人面前谈论金钱问题，所以直到这位不幸的老绅士被迫逐步坦白之前，她们对即将发生的不幸一无所知。

The bills of the little household, which had been settled weekly, first fell into arrear. The remittances had not arrived from India, Mr. Sedley told his wife with a disturbed face. As she had paid her bills very regularly hitherto, one or two of the tradesmen to whom the poor lady was obliged to go round asking for time were very angry at a delay to which they were perfectly used from more irregular customers. Emmy’s contribution, paid over cheerfully without any questions, kept the little company in half-rations however. And the first six months passed away pretty easily, old Sedley still keeping up with the notion that his shares must rise and that all would be well.
这个小家庭每周结清的账单首先被拖欠了。塞德利先生一脸不安地告诉妻子，汇款还没有从印度寄来。由于她迄今为止一直非常定期地支付账单，可怜的女士不得不四处询问时间的一两个商人对延迟非常生气，而他们已经习惯了更多不定期的顾客。艾美的捐款毫无疑问地得到了愉快的支付，然而，这家小公司的口粮却只有一半。头六个月很快就过去了，老塞德利仍然坚信他的股票一定会上涨，一切都会好起来的。

No sixty pounds, however, came to help the household at the end of the half year, and it fell deeper and deeper into trouble—Mrs. Sedley, who was growing infirm and was much shaken, remained silent or wept a great deal with Mrs. Clapp in the kitchen. The butcher was particularly surly, the grocer insolent: once or twice little Georgy had grumbled about the dinners, and Amelia, who still would have been satisfied with a slice of bread for her own dinner, could not but perceive that her son was neglected and purchased little things out of her private purse to keep the boy in health.
然而，半年后，还没有六十英镑来帮助这个家庭，家庭陷入了越来越深的麻烦——太太。塞德利的身体越来越虚弱，而且非常震惊，他要么保持沉默，要么在厨房里和克拉普太太一起哭泣。屠夫特别脾气暴躁，杂货店老板傲慢无礼：有一两次小乔治抱怨过晚餐，阿米莉亚仍然会满足于自己的晚餐一片面包，不能不意识到她的儿子被忽视了，她用自己的私人钱包购买了一些小东西，以保持男孩的健康。

At last they told her, or told her such a garbled story as people in difficulties tell. One day, her own money having been received, and Amelia about to pay it over, she, who had kept an account of the moneys expended by her, proposed to keep a certain portion back out of her dividend, having contracted engagements for a new suit for Georgy.
最后他们告诉了她，或者说，告诉了她一个困难中的人讲述的乱七八糟的故事。有一天，她收到了自己的钱，阿米莉亚正要付钱，她对自己所花的钱进行了记账，提议从股息中保留一部分，并签订了一份新的合同。适合乔治。

Then it came out that Jos’s remittances were not paid, that the house was in difficulties, which Amelia ought to have seen before, her mother said, but she cared for nothing or nobody except Georgy. At this she passed all her money across the table, without a word, to her mother, and returned to her room to cry her eyes out. She had a great access of sensibility too that day, when obliged to go and countermand the clothes, the darling clothes on which she had set her heart for Christmas Day, and the cut and fashion of which she had arranged in many conversations with a small milliner, her friend.
后来得知乔斯的汇款没有支付，房子陷入困境，阿米莉亚应该早就看到了，她母亲说，但除了乔吉之外，她不关心任何事或任何人。说完，她一言不发地把所有的钱都递给了母亲，然后回到自己的房间，哭得稀里哗啦的。那天，当她不得不去取消那些衣服时，她也非常敏感，这些衣服是她在圣诞节那天心心念念的心爱的衣服，还有她在与一个小女孩的多次谈话中安排的剪裁和款式。女帽设计师，她的朋友。

Hardest of all, she had to break the matter to Georgy, who made a loud outcry. Everybody had new clothes at Christmas. The others would laugh at him. He would have new clothes. She had promised them to him. The poor widow had only kisses to give him. She darned the old suit in tears. She cast about among her little ornaments to see if she could sell anything to procure the desired novelties. There was her India shawl that Dobbin had sent her. She remembered in former days going with her mother to a fine India shop on Ludgate Hill, where the ladies had all sorts of dealings and bargains in these articles. Her cheeks flushed and her eyes shone with pleasure as she thought of this resource, and she kissed away George to school in the morning, smiling brightly after him. The boy felt that there was good news in her look.
最困难的是，她必须向乔治说出这件事，乔治大声抗议。圣诞节每个人都穿了新衣服。其他人会嘲笑他。他会有新衣服。她已经答应过他。可怜的寡妇只能给他一个吻。她流着泪缝补旧衣服。她在她的小装饰品中翻来覆去，看看是否可以卖掉任何东西来获得想要的新奇东西。这是多宾寄给她的印度披肩。她记得以前和母亲一起去拉德盖特山上一家精美的印度商店，那里的女士们在这些物品中进行各种交易和讨价还价。当她想到这个资源时，她的脸颊通红，眼睛里闪烁着喜悦的光芒，早上她吻着乔治去学校，在他身后灿烂地微笑着。男孩觉得她的眼神里有好消息。

Packing up her shawl in a handkerchief (another of the gifts of the good Major), she hid them under her cloak and walked flushed and eager all the way to Ludgate Hill, tripping along by the park wall and running over the crossings, so that many a man turned as she hurried by him and looked after her rosy pretty face. She calculated how she should spend the proceeds of her shawl—how, besides the clothes, she would buy the books that he longed for, and pay his half-year’s schooling; and how she would buy a cloak for her father instead of that old great-coat which he wore. She was not mistaken as to the value of the Major’s gift. It was a very fine and beautiful web, and the merchant made a very good bargain when he gave her twenty guineas for her shawl.
她用手帕把披肩包起来（好少校的另一件礼物），把它们藏在斗篷下面，满脸通红、热切地一路走到拉德盖特山，沿着公园的围墙绊倒，跑过十字路口，这样当她匆匆走过时，许多男人转过身来，照顾她红润漂亮的脸庞。她盘算着自己用围巾赚来的钱该怎么花——除了衣服之外，还怎么买他渴望的书，交他半年的学费；以及她如何为父亲买一件斗篷，而不是他穿的那件旧大衣。她对少校礼物的价值没有误解。那是一张非常精致美丽的网，商人卖了二十几尼买她的披肩，这是一笔非常划算的交易。

She ran on amazed and flurried with her riches to Darton’s shop, in St. Paul’s Churchyard, and there purchased the Parents’ Assistant and the Sandford and Merton Georgy longed for, and got into the coach there with her parcel, and went home exulting. And she pleased herself by writing in the fly-leaf in her neatest little hand, ‘George Osborne, A Christmas gift from his affectionatemother.’ The books are extant to this day, with the fair delicate superscription.
她惊慌失措地带着自己的财富跑到圣保罗教堂墓地的达顿商店，在那里买了父母的助理和桑福德和默顿·乔吉想要的东西，然后带着包裹上了车，兴高采烈地回家了。她高兴地用她最整洁的小手在扉页上写道：“乔治·奥斯本，来自他慈爱的母亲的圣诞礼物。”这些书至今还存在，上面有精美的铭文。

She was going from her own room with the books in her hand to place them on George’s table, where he might find them on his return from school, when in the passage, she and her mother met. The gilt bindings of the seven handsome little volumes caught the old lady’s eye.
她正拿着书从自己的房间出发，准备把它们放在乔治的桌子上，等他放学回来时可能会在那里找到它们，这时，她和母亲在过道里相遇了。七本漂亮的小书的镀金装订引起了老太太的注意。

‘What are those?’ she said.
“那些是什么？”她说。

‘Some books for Georgy,’ Amelia replied—I—I promised them to him at Christmas.’
“给乔治一些书，”阿米莉亚回答道——我——我答应在圣诞节时给他这些书。

‘Books!’ cried the elder lady indignantly, ‘Books, when the whole house wants bread! Books, when to keep you and your son in luxury, and your dear father out of gaol, I’ve sold every trinket I had, the India shawl from my back even down to the very spoons, that our tradesmen mightn’t insult us, and that Mr. Clapp, which indeed he is justly entitled, being not a hard landlord, and a civil man, and a father, might have his rent. Oh, Amelia! you break my heart with your books and that boy of yours, whom you are ruining, though part with him you will not. Oh, Amelia, may God send you a more dutiful child than I have had! There’s Jos, deserts his father in his old age; and there’s George, who might be provided for, and who might be rich, going to school like a lord, with a gold watch and chain round his neck—while my dear, dear old man is without a sh—shilling.’ Hysteric sobs and cries ended Mrs. Sedley’s speech—it echoed through every room in the small house, whereof the other female inmates heard every word of the colloquy.
“书！”老太太愤怒地喊道，“全屋子都缺面包的时候，书！”书籍，什么时候让你和你的儿子过上奢侈的生活，让你亲爱的父亲远离监狱，我卖掉了我所有的小饰品，从我背上的印度披肩甚至到勺子，这样我们的商人就不会侮辱我们克拉普先生确实有权获得租金，他不是一个严厉的房东，而是一个文明人和一个父亲，他可以得到他的租金。哦，阿米莉亚！你用你的书和你的孩子伤了我的心，你正在毁掉他，尽管你不会与他分开。哦，阿米莉亚，愿上帝赐给你一个比我更孝顺的孩子！乔斯在年老时抛弃了他的父亲；还有乔治，他可能会被供养，他可能会很富有，像一个贵族一样去上学，脖子上戴着金表和金链——而我亲爱的、亲爱的老人却没有一先令。”歇斯底里的抽泣。塞德利夫人的演讲结束时，哭声响彻小房子的每个房间，其他女囚犯听到了谈话中的每一个字。

‘Oh, Mother, Mother!’ cried poor Amelia in reply. ‘You told me nothing—I—I promised him the books. I—I only sold my shawl this morning. Take the money—take everything’—and with quivering hands she took out her silver, and her sovereigns—her precious golden sovereigns, which she thrust into the hands of her mother, whence they overflowed and tumbled, rolling down the stairs.
“哦，妈妈，妈妈！”可怜的阿米莉亚大声回答道。 “你什么都没告诉我——我——我答应给他这些书。我——我今天早上才卖掉我的围巾。拿走钱——拿走一切”——她用颤抖的手拿出她的银币和她的金币——她珍贵的金币，她把它们塞到她母亲的手里，它们从那里溢出来，滚下楼梯。

And then she went into her room, and sank down in despair and utter misery. She saw it all now. Her selfishness was sacrificing the boy. But for her he might have wealth, station, education, and his father’s place, which the elder George had forfeited for her sake. She had but to speak the words, and her father was restored to competency and the boy raised to fortune. Oh, what a conviction it was to that tender and stricken heart!
然后她走进自己的房间，陷入绝望和痛苦之中。她现在看到了这一切。她的自私正在牺牲这个男孩。但对于她来说，他可能拥有财富、地位、教育和他父亲的地位，而老乔治为了她而放弃了这些。她只要说出这句话，她的父亲就恢复了能力，男孩也发家致富了。哦，对于那颗温柔而受打击的心来说，这是何等的信念啊！

Chapter XLVII
第四十七章


Gaunt House
冈特之家

All the world knows that Lord Steyne’s town palace stands in Gaunt Square, out of which Great Gaunt Street leads, whither we first conducted Rebecca, in the time of the departed Sir Pitt Crawley. Peering over the railings and through the black trees into the garden of the Square, you see a few miserable governesses with wanfaced pupils wandering round and round it, and round the dreary grass-plot in the centre of which rises the statue of Lord Gaunt, who fought at Minden, in a three-tailed wig, and otherwise habited like a Roman Emperor. Gaunt House occupies nearly a side of the Square. The remaining three sides are composed of mansions that have passed away into dowagerism—tall, dark houses, with window-frames of stone, or picked out of a lighter red. Little light seems to be behind those lean, comfortless casements now, and hospitality to have passed away from those doors as much as the laced lacqueys and link-boys of old times, who used to put out their torches in the blank iron extinguishers that still flank the lamps over the steps. Brass plates have penetrated into the square—Doctors, the Diddlesex Bank Western Branch—the English and European Reunion, &c.—it has a dreary look—nor is my Lord Steyne’s palace less dreary. All I have ever seen of it is the vast wall in front, with the rustic columns at the great gate, through which an old porter peers sometimes with a fat and gloomy red face—and over the wall the garret and bedroom windows, and the chimneys, out of which there seldom comes any smoke now. For the present Lord Steyne lives at Naples, preferring the view of the Bay and Capri and Vesuvius to the dreary aspect of the wall in Gaunt Square.
全世界都知道，斯泰因勋爵的城镇宫殿坐落在冈特广场，从这里延伸出大冈特街，在皮特·克劳利爵士去世的时代，我们第一次在那里指挥丽贝卡。越过栏杆，穿过黑树林，望向广场的花园，你会看到几个悲惨的家庭女教师，带着苍白的学生，在花园里转来转去，周围是一片沉闷的草地，草地中央矗立着冈特勋爵的雕像，他在明登作战，戴着三尾假发，其他方面就像罗马皇帝一样。冈特庄园几乎占据了广场的一侧。剩下的三边是由已经过时的豪宅组成的——高大、黑暗的房子，窗框是石头的，或者是用浅红色挑出来的。现在，那些单薄、不舒适的窗扇后面似乎没有什么光亮，那些门上的热情好客已经消失了，就像过去的花边漆匠和接线员一样，他们过去常常在空荡荡的铁制灭火器里熄灭火把，将灯安装在台阶上方。黄铜板已经渗入广场——医生、迪德尔塞克斯银行西部分行、英国和欧洲团聚等等——它看起来很沉闷——斯泰因勋爵的宫殿也不那么沉闷。我所看到的只是前面那堵巨大的墙，大门上有质朴的柱子，一个老门房有时会透过那堵墙往外看，脸庞又胖又阴沉——墙上是阁楼和卧室的窗户，还有那扇门。烟囱，现在很少冒烟了。目前，斯泰因勋爵住在那不勒斯，他更喜欢海湾、卡普里岛和维苏威火山的景色，而不是冈特广场沉闷的城墙。

A few score yards down New Gaunt Street, and leading into Gaunt Mews indeed, is a little modest back door, which you would not remark from that of any of the other stables. But many a little close carriage has stopped at that door, as my informant (little Tom Eaves, who knows everything, and who showed me the place) told me. ‘The Prince and Perdita have been in and out of that door, sir,’ he had often told me; ‘Marianne Clarke has entered it with the Duke of ———. It conducts to the famous petits appartements of Lord Steyne —one, sir, fitted up all in ivory and white satin, another in ebony and black velvet; there is a little banqueting-room taken from Sallust’s house at Pompeii, and painted by Cosway—a little private kitchen, in which every saucepan was silver and all the spits were gold. It was there that Egalite Orleans roasted partridges on the night when he and the Marquis of Steyne won a hundred thousand from a great personage at ombre. Half of the money went to the French Revolution, half to purchase Lord Gaunt’s Marquisate and Garter—and the remainder—‘ but it forms no part of our scheme to tell what became of the remainder, for every shilling of which, and a great deal more, little Tom Eaves, who knows everybody’s affairs, is ready to account.
沿着新冈特街走几码，确实通往冈特马厩，有一个有点朴素的后门，你不会从任何其他马厩的后门中注意到这一点。但正如我的线人（小汤姆·伊夫斯，他什么都知道，还带我参观了那个地方）告诉我的那样，许多小型马车都停在了那扇门前。 “先生，王子和佩迪塔曾进出那扇门，”他经常告诉我。 ‘玛丽安·克拉克和……公爵一起进入了这里。它通往斯泰因勋爵著名的小公寓——先生，其中一间全部用象牙色和白色缎子装饰，另一间则用乌木和黑色天鹅绒装饰。有一间小宴会厅，是从庞贝城萨卢斯特的房子里搬来的，由科斯威粉刷——一间小私人厨房，里面的每个平底锅都是银的，所有的烤叉都是金的。当晚，平等奥尔良人在那里烤鹧鸪，当时他和斯泰因侯爵从奥布勒的一位大人物那里赢得了十万美元。一半的钱捐给了法国大革命，一半用来购买冈特勋爵的侯爵爵位和嘉德勋章——以及其余的——”但它不属于我们计划的一部分，无法告诉我们剩下的钱怎么样了，每一先令，还有很多钱更重要的是，小汤姆·伊夫斯知道每个人的事情，已经准备好交代了。

Besides his town palace, the Marquis had castles and palaces in various quarters of the three kingdoms, whereof the descriptions may be found in the road-books—Castle Strongbow, with its woods, on the Shannon shore; Gaunt Castle, in Carmarthenshire, where Richard II was taken prisoner—Gauntly Hall in Yorkshire, where I have been informed there were two hundred silver teapots for the breakfasts of the guests of the house, with everything to correspond in splendour; and Stillbrook in Hampshire, which was my lord’s farm, an humble place of residence, of which we all remember the wonderful furniture which was sold at my lord’s demise by a late celebrated auctioneer.
除了他的城镇宫殿外，侯爵在三个王国的各个地区都拥有城堡和宫殿，这些描述可以在路书上找到——强弓城堡及其树林，位于香农海岸；卡马森郡的冈特城堡，理查二世就是在这里被俘虏的；约克郡的冈特利庄园，我听说那里有两百个银茶壶，供客人们享用早餐，一切都非常华丽；汉普郡的斯蒂尔布鲁克，那是我勋爵的农场，一个简陋的居住地，我们都记得勋爵去世时一位已故著名拍卖师出售的精美家具。

The Marchioness of Steyne was of the renowned and ancient family of the Caerlyons, Marquises of Camelot, who have preserved the old faith ever since the conversion of the venerable Druid, their first ancestor, and whose pedigree goes far beyond the date of the arrival of King Brute in these islands. Pendragon is the title of the eldest son of the house. The sons have been called Arthurs, Uthers, and Caradocs, from immemorial time. Their heads have fallen in many a loyal conspiracy. Elizabeth chopped off the head of the Arthur of her day, who had been Chamberlain to Philip and Mary, and carried letters between the Queen of Scots and her uncles the Guises. A cadet of the house was an officer of the great Duke and distinguished in the famous Saint Bartholomew conspiracy. During the whole of Mary’s confinement, the house of Camelot conspired in her behalf. It was as much injured by its charges in fitting out an armament against the Spaniards, during the time of the Armada, as by the fines and confiscations levied on it by Elizabeth for harbouring of priests, obstinate recusancy, and popish misdoings. A recreant of James’s time was momentarily perverted from his religion by the arguments of that great theologian, and the fortunes of the family somewhat restored by his timely weakness. But the Earl of Camelot, of the reign of Charles, returned to the old creed of his family, and they continued to fight for it, and ruin themselves for it, as long as there was a Stuart left to head or to instigate a rebellion.
斯泰因侯爵夫人出身于著名而古老的卡米洛侯爵卡里昂家族，自从他们的始祖德鲁伊皈依以来，他们一直保留着古老的信仰，其血统远远超过了卡米洛特侯爵到来的日期。这些岛屿上的野蛮之王。 Pendragon是家族长子的头衔。从远古时代起，这三个儿子就被称为亚瑟王、乌瑟斯王和卡拉多克斯王。他们在许多忠诚的阴谋中丧生。伊丽莎白砍下了当时的亚瑟王的头，他曾是菲利普和玛丽的宫廷大臣，并在苏格兰女王和她的叔叔吉斯家族之间传递信件。该学院的一名学员是伟大公爵的军官，在著名的圣巴塞洛缪阴谋中表现出色。在玛丽被监禁的整个过程中，卡米洛特家族一直在为她密谋。在无敌舰队时期，它因装备对抗西班牙人的军备而受到指控，同样也因伊丽莎白因窝藏牧师、顽固的回避和教皇的不当行为而对其征收罚款和没收。詹姆斯那个时代的一个隐士，因为这位伟大神学家的论点而暂时偏离了他的宗教信仰，而家庭的命运也因他及时的软弱而有所恢复。但是查理统治时期的卡米洛特伯爵又回到了他家族的古老信条，只要还有斯图亚特王朝留下来领导或煽动叛乱，他们就会继续为之奋斗，并为此毁掉自己。 。

Lady Mary Caerlyon was brought up at a Parisian convent; the Dauphiness Marie Antoinette was her godmother. In the pride of her beauty she had been married—sold, it was said—to Lord Gaunt, then at Paris, who won vast sums from the lady’s brother at some of Philip of Orleans’s banquets. The Earl of Gaunt’s famous duel with the Count de la Marche, of the Grey Musqueteers, was attributed by common report to the pretensions of that officer (who had been a page, and remained a favourite of the Queen) to the hand of the beautiful Lady Mary Caerlyon. She was married to Lord Gaunt while the Count lay ill of his wound, and came to dwell at Gaunt House, and to figure for a short time in the splendid Court of the Prince of Wales. Fox had toasted her. Morris and Sheridan had written songs about her. Malmesbury had made her his best bow; Walpole had pronounced her charming; Devonshire had been almost jealous of her; but she was scared by the wild pleasures and gaieties of the society into which she was flung, and after she had borne a couple of sons, shrank away into a life of devout seclusion. No wonder that my Lord Steyne, who liked pleasure and cheerfulness, was not often seen after their marriage by the side of this trembling, silent, superstitious, unhappy lady.
玛丽·卡利昂夫人在巴黎的一所修道院长大。太子妃玛丽·安托瓦内特是她的教母。出于对自己美貌的自豪，她嫁给了当时在巴黎的冈特勋爵（据说是被卖掉的），冈特勋爵在奥尔良的菲利普的一些宴会上从这位女士的兄弟那里赢得了巨额奖金。冈特伯爵与灰色火枪手德拉马尔什伯爵的著名决斗，据普遍报道，归因于那位军官（他曾是侍从，至今仍然受到女王的喜爱）的自命不凡，出自美丽的手下。玛丽·凯尔利恩夫人。当冈特勋爵养伤期间，她嫁给了冈特勋爵，并来到冈特宫居住，并在威尔士亲王的华丽宫廷中短暂停留。狐狸向她敬酒。莫里斯和谢里登写过关于她的歌曲。马姆斯伯里已向她鞠躬尽瘁。沃波尔宣称她很有魅力；德文郡几乎嫉妒她了。但她对自己所投身的社会的狂野享乐和欢乐感到害怕，在生了几个儿子后，她开始过着虔诚的隐居生活。难怪我的斯泰因勋爵喜欢享乐和快乐，结婚后很少见到这位颤抖、沉默、迷信、不幸的女士在身边。

The before-mentioned Tom Eaves (who has no part in this history, except that he knew all the great folks in London, and the stories and mysteries of each family) had further information regarding my Lady Steyne, which may or may not be true. ‘The humiliations,’ Tom used to say, ‘which that woman has been made to undergo, in her own house, have been frightful; Lord Steyne has made her sit down to table with women with whom I would rather die than allow Mrs. Eaves to associate—with Lady Crackenbury, with Mrs. Chippenham, with Madame de la Cruchecassee, the French secretary’s wife (from every one of which ladies Tom Eaves—who would have sacrificed his wife for knowing them—was too glad to get a bow or a dinner) with the REIGNING FAVOURITE in a word. And do you suppose that that woman, of that family, who are as proud as the Bourbons, and to whom the Steynes are but lackeys, mushrooms of yesterday (for after all, they are not of the Old Gaunts, but of a minor and doubtful branch of the house); do you suppose, I say (the reader must bear in mind that it is always Tom Eaves who speaks) that the Marchioness of Steyne, the haughtiest woman in England, would bend down to her husband so submissively if there were not some cause? Pooh! I tell you there are secret reasons. I tell you that, in the emigration, the Abbe de la Marche who was here and was employed in the Quiberoon business with Puisaye and Tinteniac, was the same Colonel of Mousquetaires Gris with whom Steyne fought in the year ‘86—that he and the Marchioness met again—that it was after the Reverend Colonel was shot in Brittany that Lady Steyne took to those extreme practices of devotion which she carries on now; for she is closeted with her director every day—she is at service at Spanish Place, every morning, I’ve watched her there—that is, I’ve happened to be passing there—and depend on it, there’s a mystery in her case. People are not so unhappy unless they have something to repent of,’ added Tom Eaves with a knowing wag of his head; ‘and depend on it, that woman would not be so submissive as she is if the Marquis had not some sword to hold over her.’
前面提到的汤姆·伊夫斯（他没有参与这段历史，除了他认识伦敦所有的伟人，以及每个家庭的故事和秘密）有关于我的斯泰恩夫人的更多信息，这可能是真的，也可能不是真的。 。汤姆常说，“那个女人在自己家里所遭受的羞辱是可怕的；”斯泰因勋爵让她与那些我宁愿死也不愿让伊夫斯夫人交往的女人坐在一起——与克拉肯伯里夫人、奇彭纳姆夫人、法国秘书的妻子德拉克鲁什卡西夫人（来自每一位）汤姆·伊夫斯（Tom Eaves）女士——他愿意为了认识她们而牺牲自己的妻子——太高兴了，没有得到鞠躬或一顿晚餐），总而言之，这是最受宠的人。你是否认为那个女人，这个家族的女人，像波旁家族一样骄傲，而斯泰恩家族对她来说只是走狗，昨天的蘑菇（因为毕竟，他们不是老冈特家族的人，而是一个未成年人和房子的可疑分支）；我说（读者必须记住，说话的总是汤姆·伊夫斯）你认为，英国最傲慢的女人斯泰因侯爵夫人，如果没有某种原因，会如此顺从地向她的丈夫屈服吗？呸!我告诉你，有一些秘密原因。 我告诉你，在移民过程中，曾在这里与普赛耶和丁特尼亚克一起从事基伯隆生意的德拉马尔什神父，就是与斯泰因在86年并肩作战的穆斯克泰尔·格里斯上校——他和侯爵夫人再次见面——正是在牧师上校在布列塔尼被枪杀之后，斯泰因夫人才采取了她现在仍在继续的那些极端的奉献精神；因为她每天都和她的导演私下里——她在西班牙广场服务，每天早上，我都在那儿看着她——也就是说，我碰巧路过那里——相信这一点，她身上有一个谜案件。除非有什么值得悔改的事情，否则人们不会那么不快乐。”汤姆·伊夫斯会心地摇摇头补充道。 “放心吧，如果侯爵没有一把剑在她身上，那女人也不会如此顺从。”’

So, if Mr. Eaves’s information be correct, it is very likely that this lady, in her high station, had to submit to many a private indignity and to hide many secret griefs under a calm face. And let us, my brethren who have not our names in the Red Book, console ourselves by thinking comfortably how miserable our betters may be, and that Damocles, who sits on satin cushions and is served on gold plate, has an awful sword hanging over his head in the shape of a bailiff, or an hereditary disease, or a family secret, which peeps out every now and then from the embroidered arras in a ghastly manner, and will be sure to drop one day or the other in the right place.
所以，如果伊夫斯先生的信息属实的话，这位身居高位的女士很可能不得不承受许多私人的侮辱，并在平静的面容下隐藏许多秘密的悲伤。让我们，我的名字没有被列入红皮书的弟兄们，安慰自己，安慰自己，想想我们的强者可能是多么悲惨，而坐在缎子垫子上、盛在金盘子上的达摩克利斯，头上悬着一把可怕的剑。他的头是法警的形状，或者是一种遗传性疾病，或者是一个家庭秘密，时不时地从刺绣的阿拉斯中以一种可怕的方式探出头来，总有一天会掉到正确的地方。 。

In comparing, too, the poor man’s situation with that of the great, there is (always according to Mr. Eaves) another source of comfort for the former. You who have little or no patrimony to bequeath or to inherit, may be on good terms with your father or your son, whereas the heir of a great prince, such as my Lord Steyne, must naturally be angry at being kept out of his kingdom, and eye the occupant of it with no very agreeable glances. ‘Take it as a rule,’ this sardonic old Laves would say, ‘the fathers and elder sons of all great families hate each other. The Crown Prince is always in opposition to the crown or hankering after it. Shakespeare knew the world, my good sir, and when he describes Prince Hal (from whose family the Gaunts pretend to be descended, though they are no more related to John of Gaunt than you are) trying on his father’s coronet, he gives you a natural description of all heirs apparent. If you were heir to a dukedom and a thousand pounds a day, do you mean to say you would not wish for possession? Pooh! And it stands to reason that every great man, having experienced this feeling towards his father, must be aware that his son entertains it towards himself; and so they can’t but be suspicious and hostile.
同样，在将穷人的处境与伟人的处境进行比较时，（总是根据伊夫斯先生的说法）前者还有另一个安慰的来源。如果你几乎没有或没有遗产可以遗赠或继承，你可能会与你的父亲或你的儿子关系良好，而像斯泰因勋爵这样的伟大王子的继承人，自然会因为被排除在他的王国之外而感到愤怒，并用不太愉快的眼神看着车上的人。 “按照惯例，”这个讽刺的老拉维斯会说，“所有伟大家庭的父亲和长子都会互相仇恨。太子总是反对或渴望王位。莎士比亚了解这个世界，我的好先生，当他描述哈尔王子（冈特家族假装是他的后裔，尽管他们与冈特的约翰的关系并不比你多）试戴他父亲的王冠时，他给了你一个自然描述所有继承人显而易见。如果你是一个公国的继承人，每天有一千英镑，你的意思是说你不希望拥有它吗？呸!按理说，凡是伟人，在经历过对父亲的这种感情之后，必定知道儿子对自己也有这种感情；所以他们只能怀疑和敌对。

‘Then again, as to the feeling of elder towards younger sons. My dear sir, you ought to know that every elder brother looks upon the cadets of the house as his natural enemies, who deprive him of so much ready money which ought to be his by right. I have often heard George Mac Turk, Lord Bajazet’s eldest son, say that if he had his will when he came to the title, he would do what the sultans do, and clear the estate by chopping off all his younger brothers’ heads at once; and so the case is, more or less, with them all. I tell you they are all Turks in their hearts. Pooh! sir, they know the world.’ And here, haply, a great man coming up, Tom Eaves’s hat would drop off his head, and he would rush forward with a bow and a grin, which showed that he knew the world too—in the Tomeavesian way, that is. And having laid out every shilling of his fortune on an annuity, Tom could afford to bear no malice to his nephews and nieces, and to have no other feeling with regard to his betters but a constant and generous desire to dine with them.
‘再说了，长辈对小儿子的感情。亲爱的先生，您应该知道，每个哥哥都把家里的学员视为自己的天敌，他们剥夺了他那么多本应属于他的现钱。我经常听到巴雅泽特勋爵的长子乔治·麦克特克说，如果他在获得头衔时有自己的意愿，他会像苏丹那样，立即砍掉所有弟弟的头来清理庄园。 ;或多或少，他们所有人的情况都是如此。我告诉你，他们心里都是土耳其人。呸!先生，他们了解这个世界。”很可能，在这里，一位伟人出现，汤姆·伊夫斯的帽子会从他的头上掉下来，他会鞠躬并微笑着向前冲去，这表明他也了解这个世界——在托米维斯式的方式，就是这样。汤姆把他的每一先令都花在了年金上，所以他不能对他的侄子和侄女怀有任何恶意，对他的长辈没有任何其他感情，除了不断慷慨地与他们一起吃饭的愿望。

Between the Marchioness and the natural and tender regard of mother for children, there was that cruel barrier placed of difference of faith. The very love which she might feel for her sons only served to render the timid and pious lady more fearful and unhappy. The gulf which separated them was fatal and impassable. She could not stretch her weak arms across it, or draw her children over to that side away from which her belief told her there was no safety. During the youth of his sons, Lord Steyne, who was a good scholar and amateur casuist, had no better sport in the evening after dinner in the country than in setting the boys’ tutor, the Reverend Mr. Trail (now my Lord Bishop of Ealing) on her ladyship’s director, Father Mole, over their wine, and in pitting Oxford against St. Acheul. He cried ‘Bravo, Latimer! Well said, Loyola!’ alternately; he promised Mole a bishopric if he would come over, and vowed he would use all his influence to get Trail a cardinal’s hat if he would secede. Neither divine allowed himself to be conquered, and though the fond mother hoped that her youngest and favourite son would be reconciled to her church—his mother church—a sad and awful disappointment awaited the devout lady—a disappointment which seemed to be a judgement upon her for the sin of her marriage.
在侯爵夫人和母亲对孩子自然而温柔的关怀之间，存在着因信仰差异而设置的残酷障碍。她对儿子们的爱可能只会让这位胆怯而虔诚的女士更加害怕和不高兴。他们之间的鸿沟是致命的、无法逾越的。她无法将她虚弱的手臂伸过它，也无法将她的孩子拉到远离她的信念的一侧，因为她的信念告诉她没有安全。在他的儿子们年轻的时候，斯泰因勋爵是一位优秀的学者和业余诡辩家，晚上在乡下吃完晚饭后，没有比安排孩子们的导师、牧师特雷尔先生（现在是我的主教大人）更好的运动了。伊林（Ealing）对她夫人的董事莫尔神父（Father Mole）因他们的酒以及牛津与圣阿舍尔（St. Acheul）的竞争而进行了批评。他喊道：“太棒了，拉蒂默！”说得好，洛约拉！他向莫尔承诺，如果他愿意加入，他将获得主教职位，并发誓如果他退出，他将利用自己所有的影响力为特雷尔赢得一顶红衣主教的帽子。两位神都不允许自己被征服，尽管慈爱的母亲希望她最小的、最喜爱的儿子能够与她的教会——他的母教会——和解，但等待着这位虔诚女士的却是一种悲伤而可怕的失望——这种失望似乎是对她的审判。她为自己的婚姻所犯下的罪孽。

My Lord Gaunt married, as every person who frequents the Peerage knows, the Lady Blanche Thistlewood, a daughter of the noble house of Bareacres, before mentioned in this veracious history. A wing of Gaunt House was assigned to this couple; for the head of the family chose to govern it, and while he reigned to reign supreme; his son and heir, however, living little at home, disagreeing with his wife, and borrowing upon post-obits such moneys as he required beyond the very moderate sums which his father was disposed to allow him. The Marquis knew every shilling of his son’s debts. At his lamented demise, he was found himself to be possessor of many of his heir’s bonds, purchased for their benefit, and devised by his Lordship to the children of his younger son.
正如每个经常出入贵族的人都知道的那样，冈特勋爵娶了巴里亚克斯贵族家族的女儿布兰奇·西斯特伍德夫人，这一点在这本真实的历史中曾提到过。冈特庄园的一翼被分配给这对夫妇；因为一家之主选择统治它，而他在位时就拥有至高无上的统治权。然而，他的儿子兼继承人在家里生活拮据，与妻子意见不合，并在讣告上借了他需要的钱，超出了他父亲愿意允许他的非常适度的金额。侯爵知道他儿子所欠的每一先令。在他悲痛地去世时，他被发现自己拥有许多继承人的债券，这些债券是为了他们的利益而购买的，并由勋爵为他小儿子的孩子们设计。

As, to my Lord Gaunt’s dismay, and the chuckling delight of his natural enemy and father, the Lady Gaunt had no children—the Lord George Gaunt was desired to return from Vienna, where he was engaged in waltzing and diplomacy, and to contract a matrimonial alliance with the Honourable Joan, only daughter of John Johnes, First Baron Helvellyn, and head of the firm of Jones, Brown, and Robinson, of Threadneedle Street, Bankers; from which union sprang several sons and daughters, whose doings do not appertain to this story.
冈特夫人没有孩子，这让我的冈特勋爵沮丧不已，而他的天敌兼父亲却高兴得咯咯笑——乔治·冈特勋爵希望从维也纳返回，他在那里从事华尔兹舞和外交活动，并与他签订了一份合同。与尊敬的琼结为婚姻联盟，她是赫尔维林第一男爵约翰·约翰斯的独生女，也是银行家针线街琼斯、布朗和罗宾逊公司的负责人；从这个结合中产生了几个儿子和女儿，他们的所作所为与这个故事无关。

The marriage at first was a happy and prosperous one. My Lord George Gaunt could not only read, but write pretty correctly. He spoke French with considerable fluency; and was one of the finest waltzers in Europe. With these talents, and his interest at home, there was little doubt that his lordship would rise to the highest dignities in his profession. The lady, his wife, felt that courts were her sphere, and her wealth enabled her to receive splendidly in those continental towns whither her husband’s diplomatic duties led him. There was talk of appointing him minister, and bets were laid at the Travellers’ that he would be ambassador ere long, when of a sudden, rumours arrived of the secretary’s extraordinary behaviour. At a grand diplomatic dinner given by his chief, he had started up and declared that a pate de foie gras was poisoned. He went to a ball at the hotel of the Bavarian envoy, the Count de SpringbockHohenlaufen, with his head shaved and dressed as a Capuchin friar. It was not a masked ball, as some folks wanted to persuade you. It was something queer, people whispered. His grandfather was so. It was in the family.
这段婚姻一开始是幸福美满的。乔治·冈特勋爵不仅能读，而且写得也很正确。他的法语说得相当流利。是欧洲最优秀的华尔兹舞者之一。凭借这些才能，再加上他对国内的兴趣，毫无疑问，他的爵位将上升到他职业中的最高地位。这位女士，他的妻子，认为宫廷是她的领域，她的财富使她能够在她丈夫因外交职责而前往的那些大陆城镇中受到光荣的待遇。有人议论任命他为部长，旅行者们打赌他不久就会成为大使，突然间，关于这位秘书的非凡行为的谣言传来。在他的首领举办的一场盛大的外交晚宴上，他突然宣布鹅肝酱中毒了。他剃光头，打扮成嘉布遣会修道士，去巴伐利亚特使斯普林博克霍恩劳芬伯爵的酒店参加舞会。这并不是一些人想说服你的假面舞会。人们窃窃私语，这很奇怪。他的祖父就是这样。这是在家庭中。

His wife and family returned to this country and took up their abode at Gaunt House. Lord George gave up his post on the European continent, and was gazetted to Brazil. But people knew better; he never returned from that Brazil expedition—never died there—never lived there—never was there at all. He was nowhere; he was gone out altogether. ‘Brazil,’ said one gossip to another, with a grin— ‘Brazil is St. John’s Wood. Rio de Janeiro is a cottage surrounded by four walls, and George Gaunt is accredited to a keeper, who has invested him with the order of the Strait-Waistcoat.’ These are the kinds of epitaphs which men pass over one another in Vanity Fair.
他的妻子和家人回到了这个国家，并在冈特庄园定居。乔治勋爵放弃了在欧洲大陆的职务，并被刊登到巴西。但人们更清楚；他从未从那次巴西探险回来——从未在那里死过——从未在那里生活过——从来没有在那里。他无处可去；他完全出去了。 “巴西，”一个八卦者笑着对另一个人说——“巴西是圣约翰森林。”里约热内卢是一座被四堵墙包围的小屋，乔治·冈特被委托给一位看门人，这位看门人授予他“海峡马甲”勋章。这些都是《名利场》中男人们互相传递的墓志铭。

Twice or thrice in a week, in the earliest morning, the poor mother went for her sins and saw the poor invalid. Sometimes he laughed at her (and his laughter was more pitiful than to hear him cry); sometimes she found the brilliant dandy diplomatist of the Congress of Vienna dragging about a child’s toy, or nursing the keeper’s baby’s doll. Sometimes he knew her and Father Mole, her director and companion; oftener he forgot her, as he had done wife, children, love, ambition, vanity. But he remembered his dinner-hour, and used to cry if his wine-and-water was not strong enough.
一周之内，有两次或三次，可怜的母亲在清晨去赎罪，去看望可怜的病人。有时他会嘲笑她（他的笑声比听到他的哭声更可怜）；有时她会发现维也纳会议上才华横溢的花花公子外交官拖着一个孩子的玩具，或者给看门人的婴儿娃娃喂奶。有时他认识她和鼹鼠神父，她的导师和同伴；有时，他认识她。他常常忘记她，正如他忘记妻子、孩子、爱情、野心和虚荣一样。但他记得晚餐时间，如果酒和水不够烈，他常常会哭。

It was the mysterious taint of the blood; the poor mother had brought it from her own ancient race. The evil had broken out once or twice in the father’s family, long before Lady Steyne’s sins had begun, or her fasts and tears and penances had been offered in their expiation. The pride of the race was struck down as the first-born of Pharaoh. The dark mark of fate and doom was on the threshold— the tall old threshold surmounted by coronets and caned heraldry.
这是血液中神秘的污点；可怜的母亲从她自己的古老种族那里带来了它。早在斯泰因夫人犯罪之前，或者她以禁食、眼泪和忏悔来赎罪之前，邪恶就已经在父亲的家族中爆发过一两次了。作为法老的长子，人类的骄傲被摧毁了。命运和厄运的黑暗印记就在门槛上——那道古老的高高门槛上装饰着王冠和藤条纹章。

The absent lord’s children meanwhile prattled and grew on quite unconscious that the doom was over them too. First they talked of their father and devised plans against his return. Then the name of the living dead man was less frequently in their mouth—then not mentioned at all. But the stricken old grandmother trembled to think that these too were the inheritors of their father’s shame as well as of his honours, and watched sickening for the day when the awful ancestral curse should come down on them.
与此同时，缺席领主的孩子们喋喋不休，渐渐长大，完全没有意识到厄运也降临到了他们身上。他们首先谈论了他们的父亲，并制定了阻止他回来的计划。然后，活死人的名字就不再那么频繁地出现在他们的嘴里——甚至根本没有被提及。但一想到这些人也是父亲的耻辱和荣誉的继承者，这位饱受打击的老祖母就浑身发抖，并痛苦地等待着可怕的祖传诅咒降临在他们身上的那一天。

This dark presentiment also haunted Lord Steyne. He tried to lay the horrid bedside ghost in Red Seas of wine and jollity, and lost sight of it sometimes in the crowd and rout of his pleasures. But it always came back to him when alone, and seemed to grow more threatening with years. ‘I have taken your son,’ it said, ‘why not you? I may shut you up in a prison some day like your son George. I may tap you on the head to-morrow, and away go pleasure and honours, feasts and beauty, friends, flatterers, French cooks, fine horses and houses—in exchange for a prison, a keeper, and a straw mattress like George Gaunt’s.’ And then my lord would defy the ghost which threatened him, for he knew of a remedy by which he could baulk his enemy.
这种阴暗的预感也困扰着斯泰因勋爵。他试图把那个可怕的床头鬼魂放在酒和欢乐的红海中，但有时在人群中看不见它，他的快乐也被彻底破坏。但当他独自一人时，这种感觉总是会出现在他的脑海中，而且随着年龄的增长，这种感觉似乎变得越来越具有威胁性。 “我带走了你的儿子，”它说，“为什么不带走你呢？”有一天我可能会像你儿子乔治一样把你关进监狱。明天我可能会轻拍你的头，然后离开快乐和荣誉、盛宴和美丽、朋友、阿谀奉承者、法国厨师、好马和房子——以换取一座监狱、一个看守和一张像乔治·冈特那样的草床垫然后我的主人就会反抗威胁他的鬼魂，因为他知道有一种方法可以阻止他的敌人。

So there was splendour and wealth, but no great happiness perchance, behind the tall caned portals of Gaunt House with its smoky coronets and ciphers. The feasts there were of the grandest in London, but there was not overmuch content therewith, except among the guests who sat at my lord’s table. Had he not been so great a Prince very few possibly would have visited him; but in Vanity Fair the sins of very great personages are looked at indulgently. ‘Nous regardons a deux fois’ (as the French lady said) before we condemn a person of my lord’s undoubted quality. Some notorious carpers and squeamish moralists might be sulky with Lord Steyne, but they were glad enough to come when he asked them.
因此，在冈特庄园高高的藤条大门后面，有烟熏的王冠和密码，这里有辉煌和财富，但可能没有什么伟大的幸福。那里的宴会是伦敦最盛大的，但除了坐在我主人餐桌旁的客人之外，宴会并没有太多内容。如果他不是一位如此伟大的王子，很少有人会拜访他。但在《名利场》中，伟大人物的罪过却被宽容地看待。在我们谴责一个具有我的主人无可置疑的品质的人之前，我们先说“Nous recognizes a deux fois”（正如那位法国女士所说）。一些臭名昭著的吹毛求疵者和挑剔的道德家可能会对斯泰因勋爵生闷气，但当他邀请他们时，他们很高兴能来。

‘Lord Steyne is really too bad,’ Lady Slingstone said, ‘but everybody goes, and of course I shall see that my girls come to no harm.’ ‘His lordship is a man to whom I owe much, everything in life,’ said the Right Reverend Doctor Trail, thinking that the Archbishop was rather shaky, and Mrs. Trail and the young ladies would as soon have missed going to church as to one of his lordship’s parties. ‘His morals are bad,’ said little Lord Southdown to his sister, who meekly expostulated, having heard terrific legends from her mamma with respect to the doings at Gaunt House; ‘but hang it, he’s got the best dry Sillery in Europe!’ And as for Sir Pitt Crawley, Bart.—Sir Pitt that pattern of decorum, Sir Pitt who had led off at missionary meetings—he never for one moment thought of not going too. ‘Where you see such persons as the Bishop of Ealing and the Countess of Slingstone, you may be pretty sure, Jane,’ the Baronet would say, ‘that we cannot be wrong. The great rank and station of Lord Steyne put him in a position to command people in our station in life. The Lord Lieutenant of a County, my dear, is a respectable man. Besides, George Gaunt and I were intimate in early life; he was my junior when we were attaches at Pumpernickel together.’
“斯泰因勋爵实在是太糟糕了，”斯林斯通夫人说道，“但是每个人都走了，当然我会确保我的女儿们不受伤害。”“勋爵是一个我欠他很多的人，生活中的一切，”特雷尔牧师牧师说，他认为大主教相当不稳定，特雷尔夫人和年轻的女士们会像错过一场勋爵的聚会一样错过去教堂的机会。 “他的道德很差。”小绍斯唐勋爵对他的妹妹说。妹妹从她妈妈那里听到了有关冈特庄园的可怕传说，温顺地劝告道。 “但是挂它，他有欧洲最好的干西勒里！”至于皮特·克劳利爵士，巴特。皮特爵士那种礼貌的风格，皮特爵士在传教士会议上表现出色，他一刻也没有想到过也去。 “简，当你看到伊灵主教和斯林斯通伯爵夫人这样的人时，你可能会很确定，简，”从男爵会说，“我们不会错的。”斯泰因勋爵的崇高地位和地位使他能够指挥我们生活中地位相同的人。亲爱的，县尉官是一位值得尊敬的人。此外，乔治·冈特和我早年就很亲密。当我们一起在裸麦镍公司当随员时，他是我的小辈。

In a word everybody went to wait upon this great man—everybody who was asked, as you the reader (do not say nay) or I the writer hereof would go if we had an invitation.
总之，每个人都去侍候这位伟人——每个被邀请的人，作为读者（不要说不）或我，如果我们收到邀请，就会去。

Chapter XLVIII
第四十八章


In Which the Reader Is Introduced to the Very Best of Company
向读者介绍最好的公司

At last Becky’s kindness and attention to the chief of her husband’s family were destined to meet with an exceeding great reward, a reward which, though certainly somewhat unsubstantial, the little woman coveted with greater eagerness than more positive benefits. If she did not wish to lead a virtuous life, at least she desired to enjoy a character for virtue, and we know that no lady in the genteel world can possess this desideratum, until she has put on a train and feathers and has been presented to her Sovereign at Court. From that august interview they come out stamped as honest women. The Lord Chamberlain gives them a certificate of virtue. And as dubious goods or letters are passed through an oven at quarantine, sprinkled with aromatic vinegar, and then pronounced clean, many a lady, whose reputation would be doubtful otherwise and liable to give infection, passes through the wholesome ordeal of the Royal presence and issues from it free from all taint.
最后，贝基对她丈夫一家之主的仁慈和关注注定会得到极大的回报，这种回报虽然肯定有些微不足道，但这个小女人比更积极的好处更渴望得到这种回报。如果她不希望过有德行的生活，至少她希望享有有德行的品格，我们知道，在上流社会中，没有任何一位女士能够拥有这种渴望，除非她披上裙裾，披上羽毛，被呈现出来。给她在法庭上的君主。从那次八月的采访中，她们被认为是诚实的女性。宫内大臣向他们颁发了美德证书。当可疑的货物或信件在检疫时通过烤箱，撒上芳香醋，然后宣布干净时，许多名誉会受到怀疑并容易感染的女士，经历了皇室在场和的健康考验。它的问题不受任何污染。

It might be very well for my Lady Bareacres, my Lady Tufto, Mrs. Bute Crawley in the country, and other ladies who had come into contact with Mrs. Rawdon Crawley to cry fie at the idea of the odious little adventuress making her curtsey before the Sovereign, and to declare that, if dear good Queen Charlotte had been alive, she never would have admitted such an extremely ill-regulated personage into her chaste drawing-room. But when we consider that it was the First Gentleman in Europe in whose high presence Mrs. Rawdon passed her examination, and as it were, took her degree in reputation, it surely must be flat disloyalty to doubt any more about her virtue. I, for my part, look back with love and awe to that Great Character in history. Ah, what a high and noble appreciation of Gentlewomanhood there must have been in Vanity Fair, when that revered and august being was invested, by the universal acclaim of the refined and educated portion of this empire, with the title of Premier Gentilhomme of his Kingdom. Do you remember, dear M—, oh friend of my youth, how one blissful night five-and-twenty years since, the ‘Hypocrite’ being acted, Elliston being manager, Dowton and Liston performers, two boys had leave from their loyal masters to go out from Slaughter-House School where they were educated and to appear on Drury Lane stage, amongst a crowd which assembled there to greet the king. THE KING? There he was. Beefeaters were before the august box; the Marquis of Steyne (Lord of the Powder Closet) and other great officers of state were behind the chair on which he sat, HE sat—florid of face, portly of person, covered with orders, and in a rich curling head of hair—how we sang God save him! How the house rocked and shouted with that magnificent music. How they cheered, and cried, and waved handkerchiefs. Ladies wept; mothers clasped their children; some fainted with emotion. People were suffocated in the pit, shrieks and groans rising up amidst the writhing and shouting mass there of his people who were, and indeed showed themselves almost to be, ready to die for him. Yes, we saw him. Fate cannot deprive us of THAT. Others have seen Napoleon. Some few still exist who have beheld Frederick the Great, Doctor Johnson, Marie Antoinette, &c.— be it our reasonable boast to our children, that we saw George the Good, the Magnificent, the Great.
对于我的巴里亚克斯夫人、我的塔夫托夫人、乡下的布特·克劳利夫人以及其他与罗登·克劳利夫人有过接触的女士来说，一想到这个可恶的小冒险家之前行屈膝礼的想法，也许会大哭一场。君主，并声明，如果亲爱的夏洛特王后还活着，她绝不会允许这样一个极其不守规矩的人物进入她贞洁的客厅。但是，当我们考虑到罗登夫人在欧洲第一绅士的面前通过了考试，并且获得了声誉方面的学位时，再怀疑她的美德肯定是一种不忠。就我而言，我怀着爱和敬畏的心情回顾历史上的这位伟大人物。啊，当这位受人尊敬、威风凛凛的人物受到这个帝国受过良好教育的部分人的普遍赞誉，被赋予王国首相绅士称号时，《名利场》对绅士风度的评价是多么高尚啊。 。你还记得吗，亲爱的M——哦，我年轻时的朋友，五年二十年后的一个幸福的夜晚，“伪君子”被扮演，埃利斯顿成为经理，道顿和利斯顿成为表演者，两个男孩离开了他们忠诚的主人从他们接受教育的屠宰场学校走出去，出现在特鲁里巷的舞台上，在聚集在那里迎接国王的人群中。国王？他就在那儿。卫兵们站在庄严的盒子前；斯泰因侯爵（火药室之主）和其他伟大的国家官员坐在他坐的椅子后面，他坐着——脸色红润，身材肥胖，满身命令，一头浓密的卷发——我们唱得多么美妙啊，上帝保佑他！房子随着那美妙的音乐而摇晃和叫喊。 他们多么欢呼、哭泣、挥舞着手帕。女士们哭泣；母亲们拥抱着自己的孩子；有些人激动得晕倒了。人们在深坑里窒息，尖叫声和呻吟声在他的人民扭动和叫喊的人群中响起，他们已经准备好为他而死，而且实际上几乎已经准备好为他而死。是的，我们看到了他。命运不能剥夺我们这一点。其他人见过拿破仑。仍然有少数人见过腓特烈大帝、约翰逊医生、玛丽·安托瓦内特等等——我们有理由向我们的孩子夸耀，我们看到了善良的乔治大帝。

Well, there came a happy day in Mrs. Rawdon Crawley’s existence when this angel was admitted into the paradise of a Court which she coveted, her sister-in-law acting as her godmother. On the appointed day, Sir Pitt and his lady, in their great family carriage (just newly built, and ready for the Baronet’s assumption of the office of High Sheriff of his county), drove up to the little house in Curzon Street, to the edification of Raggles, who was watching from his greengrocer’s shop, and saw fine plumes within, and enormous bunches of flowers in the breasts of the new livery-coats of the footmen.
好吧，罗登·克劳利夫人的生活迎来了幸福的一天，这位天使被接纳进入她梦寐以求的宫廷天堂，她的嫂子充当了她的教母。在约定的日子里，皮特爵士和他的夫人，乘坐他们的伟大的家庭马车（刚刚建造，准备好从男爵就任他所在县的高级警长办公室），驱车前往柯松街的小房子，前往拉格斯在他的蔬菜水果店里观看，看到里面有漂亮的羽毛，男仆的新制服胸前有巨大的花束。

Sir Pitt, in a glittering uniform, descended and went into Curzon Street, his sword between his legs. Little Rawdon stood with his face against the parlour window-panes, smiling and nodding with all his might to his aunt in the carriage within; and presently Sir Pitt issued forth from the house again, leading forth a lady with grand feathers, covered in a white shawl, and holding up daintily a train of magnificent brocade. She stepped into the vehicle as if she were a princess and accustomed all her life to go to Court, smiling graciously on the footman at the door and on Sir Pitt, who followed her into the carriage.
皮特爵士身穿闪闪发光的制服，双腿间夹着剑，走下楼，走进柯曾街。小罗登站着，脸靠在客厅的窗玻璃上，微笑着，用力向车厢里的姨妈点点头。不久，皮特爵士又从屋子里出来，领着一位戴着华丽羽毛、披着白色披肩的女士，优雅地举着一串华丽的锦缎。她像公主一样走进车里，习惯了去宫廷，对门口的男仆和跟着她进马车的皮特爵士亲切地微笑。

Then Rawdon followed in his old Guards’ uniform, which had grown woefully shabby, and was much too tight. He was to have followed the procession and waited upon his sovereign in a cab, but that his good-natured sister-in-law insisted that they should be a family party. The coach was large, the ladies not very big, they would hold their trains in their laps—finally, the four went fraternally together, and their carriage presently joined the line of royal equipages which was making its way down Piccadilly and St. James’s Street, towards the old brick palace where the Star of Brunswick was in waiting to receive his nobles and gentlefolks.
然后罗登穿着他以前的卫兵制服跟在后面，那身制服已经破旧得可怜，而且太紧了。他本应跟随游行队伍，在出租车里侍候他的君主，但他善良的嫂子坚持认为他们应该是一个家庭聚会。马车很大，女士们不是很大，她们会把火车抱在腿上——最后，四个人兄弟般地走在一起，他们的马车很快就加入了沿着皮卡迪利大街和圣詹姆斯街行驶的皇家马车队伍。 ，走向古老的砖砌宫殿，不伦瑞克之星正在那里等待接待他的贵族和绅士。

Becky felt as if she could bless the people out of the carriage windows, so elated was she in spirit, and so strong a sense had she of the dignified position which she had at last attained in life. Even our Becky had her weaknesses, and as one often sees how men pride themselves upon excellences which others are slow to perceive: how, for instance, Comus firmly believes that he is the greatest tragic actor in England; how Brown, the famous novelist, longs to be considered, not a man of genius, but a man of fashion; while Robinson, the great lawyer, does not in the least care about his reputation in Westminster Hall, but believes himself incomparable across country and at a five-barred gate—so to be, and to be thought, a respectable woman was Becky’s aim in life, and she got up the genteel with amazing assiduity, readiness, and success. We have said, there were times when she believed herself to be a fine lady and forgot that there was no money in the chest at home—duns round the gate, tradesmen to coax and wheedle—no ground to walk upon, in a word. And as she went to Court in the carriage, the family carriage, she adopted a demeanour so grand, self-satisfied, deliberate, and imposing that it made even Lady Jane laugh. She walked into the royal apartments with a toss of the head which would have befitted an empress, and I have no doubt had she been one, she would have become the character perfectly.
贝基感觉自己仿佛能从车窗外祝福人们，她的精神如此欣喜，她对自己终于在生活中获得的尊贵地位有如此强烈的感觉。甚至我们的贝基也有她的弱点，正如人们经常看到的那样，男人们如何为别人难以察觉的卓越而自豪：例如，科姆斯如何坚信自己是英国最伟大的悲剧演员；著名小说家布朗多么渴望被视为时尚人士而不是天才？而伟大的律师罗宾逊却丝毫不关心自己在威斯敏斯特大厅的声誉，而是相信自己在全国和五道栅栏门前都是无与伦比的——因此，贝基的目标是成为一个受人尊敬的女人，并被认为是一个受人尊敬的女人。她以惊人的勤奋、准备和成功而表现得优雅。我们说过，有时她自以为是一位好女士，却忘了家里的箱子里没有钱——门口有催款，商人有哄骗——总之，没有立足之地。当她乘坐马车，家庭马车去朝廷时，她的举止是那么的堂皇、得意、从容、气势，连简夫人都笑了。她走进皇家寓所时，摇头晃脑，这很适合皇后，我毫不怀疑，如果她是皇后，她会完美地扮演这个角色。

We are authorized to state that Mrs. Rawdon Crawley’s costume de cour on the occasion of her presentation to the Sovereign was of the most elegant and brilliant description. Some ladies we may have seen—we who wear stars and cordons and attend the St. James’s assemblies, or we, who, in muddy boots, dawdle up and down Pall Mall and peep into the coaches as they drive up with the great folks in their feathers—some ladies of fashion, I say, we may have seen, about two o’clock of the forenoon of a levee day, as the lacedjacketed band of the Life Guards are blowing triumphal marches seated on those prancing music-stools, their cream-coloured chargers—who are by no means lovely and enticing objects at that early period of noon. A stout countess of sixty, decolletee, painted, wrinkled with rouge up to her drooping eyelids, and diamonds twinkling in her wig, is a wholesome and edifying, but not a pleasant sight. She has the faded look of a St. James’s Street illumination, as it may be seen of an early morning, when half the lamps are out, and the others are blinking wanly, as if they were about to vanish like ghosts before the dawn. Such charms as those of which we catch glimpses while her ladyship’s carriage passes should appear abroad at night alone. If even Cynthia looks haggard of an afternoon, as we may see her sometimes in the present winter season, with Phoebus staring her out of countenance from the opposite side of the heavens, how much more can old Lady Castlemouldy keep her head up when the sun is shining full upon it through the chariot windows, and showing all the chinks and crannies with which time has marked her face! No. Drawing-rooms should be announced for November, or the first foggy day, or the elderly sultanas of our Vanity Fair should drive up in closed litters, descend in a covered way, and make their curtsey to the Sovereign under the protection of lamplight.
我们有权声明，罗登·克劳利夫人在向君主演讲时的服装堪称最优雅、最精彩的。我们可能见过一些女士——我们戴着星星和警戒线参加圣詹姆斯集会，或者我们穿着沾满泥的靴子，在蓓尔美尔街磨蹭着，偷看马车里的人们和伟大的人们一起驶来。他们的羽毛——我说，我们可能见过一些时尚女士，大约在堤坝日的中午两点，当救生员穿着花边夹克的乐队坐在那些腾跃的音乐凳上吹奏凯旋进行曲时，他们的羽毛米色的充电器——在正午时分，它们绝不是可爱诱人的物体。一位六十岁的粗壮伯爵夫人，胸前涂着油彩，下垂的眼睑上涂满了胭脂，假发上闪烁着钻石，这是一个健康而有启发性的景象，但并不令人愉快。她的样子就像圣詹姆斯街的灯光褪色的样子，就像清晨时看到的那样，一半的灯熄灭了，剩下的灯无力地眨着眼睛，仿佛它们将像黎明前的幽灵一样消失。像我们在夫人的马车通行证上瞥见的那些魅力应该在夜晚独自出现在国外。如果连辛西娅在下午的时候也显得憔悴，就像我们在现在的冬季有时会看到她一样，福比斯在天空的另一边面无表情地盯着她，那么老卡斯尔莫迪夫人在阳光下还能昂首挺胸吗？透过战车的窗户，阳光照耀在它身上，显露出时间在她脸上留下的所有缝隙和缝隙！不。 客厅应该在十一月，或者第一个大雾天宣布，否则我们名利场的年老苏丹应该开着封闭的轿子，以有遮盖的方式下降，并在灯光的保护下向君主行屈膝礼。

Our beloved Rebecca had no need, however, of any such a friendly halo to set off her beauty. Her complexion could bear any sunshine as yet, and her dress, though if you were to see it now, any present lady of Vanity Fair would pronounce it to be the most foolish and preposterous attire ever worn, was as handsome in her eyes and those of the public, some five-and-twenty years since, as the most brilliant costume of the most famous beauty of the present season. A score of years hence that too, that milliner’s wonder, will have passed into the domain of the absurd, along with all previous vanities. But we are wandering too much. Mrs. Rawdon’s dress was pronounced to be charmante on the eventful day of her presentation. Even good little Lady Jane was forced to acknowledge this effect, as she looked at her kinswoman, and owned sorrowfully to herself that she was quite inferior in taste to Mrs. Becky.
然而，我们心爱的丽贝卡不需要任何这样友好的光环来衬托她的美丽。她的肤色还可以承受任何阳光，而她的衣服，虽然如果你现在看到它，《名利场》的任何一位在场女士都会说这是有史以来最愚蠢和最荒谬的服装，但在她眼里和那些人一样英俊。大约五、二十年后，它被公众视为当季最著名的美女最绚丽的服装。二十年后，那位女帽设计师的奇迹也将与之前所有的虚荣心一起进入荒谬的领域。但我们流浪太多了。罗登夫人的礼服在她演讲的这一重要日子里被认为是迷人的。即使是善良的小简夫人，当她看着她的亲戚时，也不得不承认这种效果，并悲伤地承认自己的品味远远不如贝基夫人。

She did not know how much care, thought, and genius Mrs. Rawdon had bestowed upon that garment. Rebecca had as good taste as any milliner in Europe, and such a clever way of doing things as Lady Jane little understood. The latter quickly spied out the magnificence of the brocade of Becky’s train, and the splendour of the lace on her dress.
她不知道罗登夫人在这件衣服上倾注了多少心血、心思和才华。丽贝卡的品味不亚于欧洲的女帽设计师，她的做事方式如此巧妙，简夫人几乎无法理解。后者很快就看出了贝基裾上锦缎的华丽，以及裙子上蕾丝的华丽。

The brocade was an old remnant, Becky said; and as for the lace, it was a great bargain. She had had it these hundred years.
贝基说，锦缎是旧物。至于蕾丝，这是一笔很划算的买卖。她已经拥有了这百年。

‘My dear Mrs. Crawley, it must have cost a little fortune,’ Lady Jane said, looking down at her own lace, which was not nearly so good; and then examining the quality of the ancient brocade which formed the material of Mrs. Rawdon’s Court dress, she felt inclined to say that she could not afford such fine clothing, but checked that speech, with an effort, as one uncharitable to her kinswoman.
“我亲爱的克劳利夫人，这肯定花了不少钱。”简夫人低头看着自己的蕾丝，可她的蕾丝可不太好。然后，她检查了罗登夫人宫廷礼服所用的古老锦缎的质量，她想说自己买不起这么好的衣服，但又像对她的亲戚不仁慈一样，努力阻止了这句话。

And yet, if Lady Jane had known all, I think even her kindly temper would have failed her. The fact is, when she was putting Sir Pitt’s house in order, Mrs. Rawdon had found the lace and the brocade in old wardrobes, the property of the former ladies of the house, and had quietly carried the goods home, and had suited them to her own little person. Briggs saw her take them, asked no questions, told no stories; but I believe quite sympathised with her on this matter, and so would many another honest woman.
然而，如果简女士知道这一切，我想即使是她的好脾气也会让她失望。事实是，当她整理皮特爵士的房子时，罗登夫人在旧衣柜里发现了蕾丝和锦缎，这是房子里前任女士的财产，并悄悄地将物品带回家，并为它们穿上了合适的衣服。给她自己的小人。布里格斯看到她拿着它们，没有问任何问题，也没有讲故事；她把它们拿走了。但我相信在这件事上我非常同情她，其他许多诚实的女人也会如此。

And the diamonds—‘Where the doose did you get the diamonds, Becky?’ said her husband, admiring some jewels which he had never seen before and which sparkled in her ears and on her neck with brilliance and profusion.
还有钻石——“贝基，你从哪里得到这些钻石的？”她的丈夫一边说，一边欣赏着一些他以前从未见过的珠宝，这些珠宝在她的耳朵和脖子上闪闪发光，闪闪发光。

Becky blushed a little and looked at him hard for a moment. Pitt Crawley blushed a little too, and looked out of window. The fact is, he had given her a very small portion of the brilliants; a pretty diamond clasp, which confined a pearl necklace which she wore—and the Baronet had omitted to mention the circumstance to his lady.
贝基有点脸红，狠狠地看了他一会儿。皮特·克劳利也脸红了一点，看着窗外。事实上，他只给了她一小部分的宝石；一个漂亮的钻石扣，扣住了她戴着的一条珍珠项链——男爵没有向他的夫人提及此事。

Becky looked at her husband, and then at Sir Pitt, with an air of saucy triumph—as much as to say, ‘Shall I betray you?’
贝基看看她的丈夫，然后看看皮特爵士，带着一种俏皮的胜利神情，几乎是在说：“我要背叛你吗？”

‘Guess!’ she said to her husband. ‘Why, you silly man,’ she continued, ‘where do you suppose I got them?—all except the little clasp, which a dear friend of mine gave me long ago. I hired them, to be sure. I hired them at Mr. Polonius’s, in Coventry Street. You don’t suppose that all the diamonds which go to Court belong to the wearers; like those beautiful stones which Lady Jane has, and which are much handsomer than any which I have, I am certain.’
“你猜！”她对丈夫说。 “哎呀，你这个傻瓜，”她继续说道，“你以为我从哪里得到它们的？——除了那个小扣子，那是我的一位好朋友很久以前送给我的。”当然，我雇佣了他们。我在考文垂街的波洛尼斯先生家雇用了他们。您不会认为所有进入宫廷的钻石都属于佩戴者；就像简夫人拥有的那些美丽的宝石一样，我确信它们比我拥有的任何宝石都要漂亮得多。

‘They are family jewels,’ said Sir Pitt, again looking uneasy. And in this family conversation the carriage rolled down the street, until its cargo was finally discharged at the gates of the palace where the Sovereign was sitting in state.
“它们是家族珍宝，”皮特爵士说道，脸上再次显得不安。就在这家人的谈话中，马车沿着街道滚动，直到货物最终卸到君主坐坐的宫殿门口。

The diamonds, which had created Rawdon’s admiration, never went back to Mr. Polonius, of Coventry Street, and that gentleman never applied for their restoration, but they retired into a little private repository, in an old desk, which Amelia Sedley had given her years and years ago, and in which Becky kept a number of useful and, perhaps, valuable things, about which her husband knew nothing. To know nothing, or little, is in the nature of some husbands. To hide, in the nature of how many women? Oh, ladies! how many of you have surreptitious milliners’ bills? How many of you have gowns and bracelets which you daren’t show, or which you wear trembling?— trembling, and coaxing with smiles the husband by your side, who does not know the new velvet gown from the old one, or the new bracelet from last year’s, or has any notion that the ragged-looking yellow lace scarf cost forty guineas and that Madame Bobinot is writing dunning letters every week for the money!
这些令罗登钦佩的钻石再也没有回到考文垂街的波洛尼厄斯先生那里，这位绅士也从未申请修复它们，但它们退休了，藏在阿米莉亚·塞德利送给她的一张旧桌子上的一个小型私人储藏室里。许多年前，贝基在里面存放了许多有用的、也许是有价值的东西，而她的丈夫对此一无所知。有些丈夫的天性就是一无所知或知之甚少。能隐藏本性的女人有多少？哦，女士们！你们中有多少人有秘密的女帽制造商账单？你们有多少人有礼服和手镯，不敢展示，或者颤抖地戴上？——颤抖着，笑着哄着身边的丈夫，他不知道新的天鹅绒礼服是旧的，还是新的。去年的手镯，或者有任何想法，那条看起来破烂的黄色蕾丝围巾花了四十几尼，而博比诺夫人每周都在写催款信来讨钱！

Thus Rawdon knew nothing about the brilliant diamond ear-rings, or the superb brilliant ornament which decorated the fair bosom of his lady; but Lord Steyne, who was in his place at Court, as Lord of the Powder Closet, and one of the great dignitaries and illustrious defences of the throne of England, and came up with all his stars, garters, collars, and cordons, and paid particular attention to the little woman, knew whence the jewels came and who paid for them.
因此，罗登对明亮的钻石耳环一无所知，也不知道装饰他的女士美丽的胸前的精美的明亮装饰品。但是斯泰因勋爵，他在宫廷里担任着粉衣室的领主，也是英格兰王位的一位伟大的显贵和杰出的捍卫者，他拿出了他所有的星星、吊袜带、项圈和警戒带，特别注意那个小女人，知道珠宝从哪里来，是谁付钱的。

As he bowed over her he smiled, and quoted the hackneyed and beautiful lines from The Rape of the Lock about Belinda’s diamonds, ‘which Jews might kiss and infidels adore.’
当他向她鞠躬时，他微笑着，引用了《劫发记》中关于贝琳达钻石的陈腐而美丽的台词，“犹太人可能会亲吻它，异教徒也会崇拜它。”

‘But I hope your lordship is orthodox,’ said the little lady with a toss of her head. And many ladies round about whispered and talked, and many gentlemen nodded and whispered, as they saw what marked attention the great nobleman was paying to the little adventuress.
“但我希望阁下是正统的。”小女士摇摇头说道。周围许多女士低声议论着，许多绅士也点点头，低声议论着，因为他们看到这位大贵族对这位小冒险家的关注程度。

What were the circumstances of the interview between Rebecca Crawley, nee Sharp, and her Imperial Master, it does not become such a feeble and inexperienced pen as mine to attempt to relate. The dazzled eyes close before that Magnificent Idea. Loyal respect and decency tell even the imagination not to look too keenly and audaciously about the sacred audience-chamber, but to back away rapidly, silently, and respectfully, making profound bows out of the August Presence.
丽贝卡·克劳利（娘家姓夏普）和她的帝国导师之间的会面情况如何，我无法像我这样无力和缺乏经验的笔来尝试讲述。眼花缭乱的眼睛在那个宏伟的想法面前闭上了。忠诚的尊重和正派甚至告诉想象力，不要过于敏锐和大胆地注视神圣的接见室，而是迅速、安静和恭敬地后退，向至高无上的存在深深鞠躬。

This may be said, that in all London there was no more loyal heart than Becky’s after this interview. The name of her king was always on her lips, and he was proclaimed by her to be the most charming of men. She went to Colnaghi’s and ordered the finest portrait of him that art had produced, and credit could supply. She chose that famous one in which the best of monarchs is represented in a frockcoat with a fur collar, and breeches and silk stockings, simpering on a sofa from under his curly brown wig. She had him painted in a brooch and wore it—indeed she amused and somewhat pestered her acquaintance with her perpetual talk about his urbanity and beauty. Who knows! Perhaps the little woman thought she might play the part of a Maintenon or a Pompadour.
可以说，这次采访之后，整个伦敦没有比贝基更忠诚的人了。她的国王的名字总是挂在她的嘴边，她宣称他是最有魅力的男人。她去了科尔纳吉的画室，订购了一幅他最好的肖像画，这是艺术创作的，而且可以提供信用。她选择了那幅著名的作品，其中最优秀的君主穿着毛领礼服、马裤和丝袜，戴着卷曲的棕色假发，坐在沙发上傻笑。她把他画在胸针上，戴在身上——事实上，她不停地谈论他的彬彬有礼和美丽，这让她的熟人感到好笑，甚至有些纠缠不休。谁知道！也许这个小女人认为她可以扮演曼特农或蓬巴杜的角色。

But the finest sport of all after her presentation was to hear her talk virtuously. She had a few female acquaintances, not, it must be owned, of the very highest reputation in Vanity Fair. But being made an honest woman of, so to speak, Becky would not consort any longer with these dubious ones, and cut Lady Crackenbury when the latter nodded to her from her opera-box, and gave Mrs. Washington White the go-by in the Ring. ‘One must, my dear, show one is somebody,’ she said. ‘One mustn’t be seen with doubtful people. I pity Lady Crackenbury from my heart, and Mrs. Washington White may be a very good-natured person. YOU may go and dine with them, as you like your rubber. But I mustn’t, and won’t; and you will have the goodness to tell Smith to say I am not at home when either of them calls.’
但在她演讲之后，最好的运动就是听她的演讲。她有几个女性熟人，但必须承认，她们在《名利场》中并不是享有最高声誉的。但是，可以说，贝基已经成为一个诚实的女人，她不会再与这些可疑的人交往，当克拉肯伯里夫人在歌剧院向她点头时，贝基就打断了后者，并在华盛顿怀特夫人面前放行了。戒指。 “亲爱的，一个人必须表明他是一个重要人物，”她说。 ‘决不能让一个人与可疑的人在一起。我打心底里同情克拉肯伯里夫人，而华盛顿·怀特夫人也许是个心地善良的人。你可以去和他们一起吃饭，因为你喜欢你的橡胶。但我不能，也不会；当他们中的任何一个打电话时，你应该告诉史密斯说我不在家。

The particulars of Becky’s costume were in the newspapers—feathers, lappets, superb diamonds, and all the rest. Lady Crackenbury read the paragraph in bitterness of spirit and discoursed to her followers about the airs which that woman was giving herself. Mrs. Bute Crawley and her young ladies in the country had a copy of the Morning Post from town, and gave a vent to their honest indignation. ‘If you had been sandy-haired, green-eyed, and a French ropedancer’s daughter,’ Mrs. Bute said to her eldest girl (who, on the contrary, was a very swarthy, short, and snub-nosed young lady), ‘You might have had superb diamonds forsooth, and have been presented at Court by your cousin, the Lady Jane. But you’re only a gentlewoman, my poor dear child. You have only some of the best blood in England in your veins, and good principles and piety for your portion. I, myself, the wife of a Baronet’s younger brother, too, never thought of such a thing as going to Court—nor would other people, if good Queen Charlotte had been alive.’ In this way the worthy Rectoress consoled herself, and her daughters sighed and sat over the Peerage all night.
报纸上刊登了贝基服装的细节——羽毛、垂褶、精美的钻石等等。克拉肯伯里夫人心情痛苦地读了这段话，并向她的追随者谈论了那个女人的架子。布特·克劳利夫人和她在乡下的年轻女士们从城里拿到了一份《晨报》，发泄了她们真诚的愤慨。 “如果你是沙色头发、绿眼睛、法国绳索舞者的女儿，”比特夫人对她的大女儿（相反，她是一位皮肤黝黑、身材矮小、塌鼻子的年轻女士）说道， “你可能确实拥有极好的钻石，并且是由你的表弟简夫人在宫廷赠送的。但你只是一位淑女，我可怜的亲爱的孩子。你的血管里流淌着英格兰最好的血液，还有良好的原则和虔诚的态度。我本人，一位准男爵弟弟的妻子，也从来没有想过上法庭这样的事——如果善良的夏洛特王后还活着的话，其他人也不会这么做。”女儿们叹了口气，整夜坐在贵族身边。

A few days after the famous presentation, another great and exceeding honour was vouchsafed to the virtuous Becky. Lady Steyne’s carriage drove up to Mr. Rawdon Crawley’s door, and the footman, instead of driving down the front of the house, as by his tremendous knocking he appeared to be inclined to do, relented and only delivered in a couple of cards, on which were engraven the names of the Marchioness of Steyne and the Countess of Gaunt. If these bits of pasteboard had been beautiful pictures, or had had a hundred yards of Malines lace rolled round them, worth twice the number of guineas, Becky could not have regarded them with more pleasure. You may be sure they occupied a conspicuous place in the china bowl on the drawing-room table, where Becky kept the cards of her visitors. Lord! lord! how poor Mrs. Washington White’s card and Lady Crackenbury’s card—which our little friend had been glad enough to get a few months back, and of which the silly little creature was rather proud once—Lord! lord! I say, how soon at the appearance of these grand court cards, did those poor little neglected deuces sink down to the bottom of the pack. Steyne! Bareacres, Johnes of Helvellyn! and Caerylon of Camelot! we may be sure that Becky and Briggs looked out those august names in the Peerage, and followed the noble races up through all the ramifications of the family tree.
这场著名的演讲几天后，又一项伟大而非凡的荣誉授予了善良的贝基。斯泰恩夫人的马车驶到了罗登·克劳利先生的门口，男仆并没有像他大力敲门那样从房子前面开下去，而是态度软化了，只递了几张卡片，上面刻着斯泰因侯爵夫人和冈特伯爵夫人的名字。如果这些纸板碎片是美丽的图画，或者有一百码长的马林花边卷在它们周围，价值两倍的基尼，贝基不可能更高兴地看着它们。你可以肯定，它们在客厅桌子上的瓷碗里占据了一个显眼的位置，贝基把来访者的名片放在那里。主！主！华盛顿·怀特夫人的卡片和克拉肯伯里夫人的卡片是多么可怜——我们的小朋友几个月前很高兴得到了这些卡片，这个愚蠢的小家伙曾经为此感到非常自豪——上帝啊！主！我说，当这些大牌出现时，那些可怜的、被忽视的小牌很快就沉到了牌堆的底部。斯泰因！裸露的土地，赫尔维林的约翰！还有卡米洛特的凯里隆！我们可以肯定，贝基和布里格斯留意了贵族中那些庄严的名字，并追踪了贵族种族，了解了家谱的所有分支。

My Lord Steyne coming to call a couple of hours afterwards, and looking about him, and observing everything as was his wont, found his ladies’ cards already ranged as the trumps of Becky’s hand, and grinned, as this old cynic always did at any naive display of human weakness. Becky came down to him presently; whenever the dear girl expected his lordship, her toilette was prepared, her hair in perfect order, her mouchoirs, aprons, scarfs, little morocco slippers, and other female gimcracks arranged, and she seated in some artless and agreeable posture ready to receive him—whenever she was surprised, of course, she had to fly to her apartment to take a rapid survey of matters in the glass, and to trip down again to wait upon the great peer.
几个小时后，斯泰因勋爵来拜访，环顾四周，按照他的习惯观察一切，发现他的女士们的牌已经排列成贝基手中的王牌，他咧嘴一笑，就像这个老愤世嫉俗者总是在任何时候做的那样。人性弱点的天真表现。贝基很快就来到他身边。每当这位可爱的女孩期待他的勋爵时，她的梳妆打扮都会准备好，她的头发整理得井井有条，她的毛衣、围裙、围巾、摩洛哥小拖鞋和其他女性小玩意儿都准备好了，她以一种朴素而愉快的姿势坐着准备迎接他——当然，每当她感到惊讶时，她就得飞到自己的公寓，快速检查一下玻璃里的东西，然后再飞下来去侍候这位伟大的同行。

She found him grinning over the bowl. She was discovered, and she blushed a little. ‘Thank you, Monseigneur,’ she said. ‘You see your ladies have been here. How good of you! I couldn’t come before—I was in the kitchen making a pudding.’
她发现他端着碗咧着嘴笑。被发现了，她脸红了一点。 “谢谢您，大人，”她说。 “你看你的女士们都在这里。你真好！我之前没能来——我当时正在厨房里做布丁。”

‘I know you were, I saw you through the area-railings as I drove up,’ replied the old gentleman.
“我知道你是，我开车过去的时候透过栏杆看到你的，”老先生回答道。

‘You see everything,’ she replied.
“你看到了一切，”她回答道。

‘A few things, but not that, my pretty lady,’ he said goodnaturedly. ‘You silly little fibster! I heard you in the room overhead, where I have no doubt you were putting a little rouge on— you must give some of yours to my Lady Gaunt, whose complexion is quite preposterous—and I heard the bedroom door open, and then you came downstairs.’
“有一些事情，但不是那个，我漂亮的女士，”他和善地说。 ‘你这个愚蠢的小骗子！我听到你在头顶的房间里，我毫不怀疑你在上面涂了一点胭脂——你必须把你的一些给我的冈特夫人，她的肤色很荒谬——我听到卧室门打开，然后你进来了楼下。'

‘Is it a crime to try and look my best when YOU come here?’ answered Mrs. Rawdon plaintively, and she rubbed her cheek with her handkerchief as if to show there was no rouge at all, only genuine blushes and modesty in her case. About this who can tell? I know there is some rouge that won’t come off on a pocket-handkerchief, and some so good that even tears will not disturb it.
“你来这里的时候，试图让自己看起来最好，这是犯罪吗？”罗登夫人哀怨地回答，她用手帕擦着脸颊，仿佛要表明她根本没有胭脂，只有真正的红晕和谦虚。 。这事谁能说得清呢？我知道有些胭脂沾在手帕上是擦不掉的，有些胭脂非常好，即使是眼泪也不会打扰它。

‘Well,’ said the old gentleman, twiddling round his wife’s card, ‘you are bent on becoming a fine lady. You pester my poor old life out to get you into the world. You won’t be able to hold your own there, you silly little fool. You’ve got no money.’
“好吧，”老先生一边摆弄着他妻子的名片一边说道，“你一心想成为一名优秀的女士。你纠缠着我可怜的旧生活，想让你进入这个世界。你将无法在那里保持自己的状态，你这个愚蠢的小傻瓜。你没有钱。

‘You will get us a place,’ interposed Becky, ‘as quick as possible.’
“你会尽快给我们安排一个位置，”贝基插嘴道，“尽快。”

‘You’ve got no money, and you want to compete with those who have. You poor little earthenware pipkin, you want to swim down the stream along with the great copper kettles. All women are alike. Everybody is striving for what is not worth the having! Gad! I dined with the King yesterday, and we had neck of mutton and turnips. A dinner of herbs is better than a stalled ox very often. You will go to Gaunt House. You give an old fellow no rest until you get there. It’s not half so nice as here. You’ll be bored there. I am. My wife is as gay as Lady Macbeth, and my daughters as cheerful as Regan and Goneril. I daren’t sleep in what they call my bedroom. The bed is like the baldaquin of St. Peter’s, and the pictures frighten me. I have a little brass bed in a dressing-room, and a little hair mattress like an anchorite. I am an anchorite. Ho! ho! You’ll be asked to dinner next week. And gare aux femmes, look out and hold your own! How the women will bully you!’ This was a very long speech for a man of few words like my Lord Steyne; nor was it the first which he uttered for Becky’s benefit on that day.
“你没有钱，却想和有钱的人竞争。你这个可怜的小陶器小精灵，你想和大铜壶一起顺流而下。所有女人都是一样的。每个人都在追求不值得拥有的东西！哎呀！昨天我和国王一起吃饭，我们吃了羊颈肉和萝卜。一顿香草晚餐比经常吃一头厩牛要好。您将前往冈特之家。在你到达那里之前，你不会让一个老家伙休息。它没有这里好一半。你会在那里感到无聊。我是。我的妻子像麦克白夫人一样快乐，我的女儿们像里根和高纳里尔一样快乐。我不敢睡在他们所谓的卧室里。床就像圣彼得大教堂的华盖，那些照片让我害怕。我的更衣室里有一张小黄铜床，还有一个像隐士一样的小毛床垫。我是一个隐士。嗬！嗬！下周你会被邀请吃饭。还有 gare aux femmes，请注意并保持自己的状态！那些女人会多么欺负你啊！”对于像斯泰因勋爵这样寡言少语的人来说，这是一篇很长的演讲。这也不是他那天为了贝基的利益所说的第一句话。

Briggs looked up from the work-table at which she was seated in the farther room and gave a deep sigh as she heard the great Marquis speak so lightly of her sex.
布里格斯从远处房间的工作台上抬起头来，当她听到伟大的侯爵如此轻描淡写地谈论她的性别时，她深深地叹了口气。

‘If you don’t turn off that abominable sheep-dog,’ said Lord Steyne, with a savage look over his shoulder at her, ‘I will have her poisoned.’
“如果你不把那条可恶的牧羊犬赶走，”斯泰因勋爵回头用野蛮的目光看着她，“我就让人毒死她。”

‘I always give my dog dinner from my own plate,’ said Rebecca, laughing mischievously; and having enjoyed for some time the discomfiture of my lord, who hated poor Briggs for interrupting his tete-a-tete with the fair Colonel’s wife, Mrs. Rawdon at length had pity upon her admirer, and calling to Briggs, praised the fineness of the weather to her and bade her to take out the child for a walk.
“我总是用我自己的盘子给我的狗吃晚饭，”丽贝卡调皮地笑着说道。罗登夫人对我的主人的不满已经有一段时间了，他讨厌可怜的布里格斯打断了他与美丽的上校妻子的会面，罗登夫人最终对她的崇拜者产生了怜悯，并打电话给布里格斯，称赞了布里格斯的出色表现。天气不错，让她带孩子出去散步。

‘I can’t send her away,’ Becky said presently, after a pause, and in a very sad voice. Her eyes filled with tears as she spoke, and she turned away her head.
“我不能送她走，”贝基停顿了一下后说道，声音非常悲伤。说着说着，她的眼里噙满了泪水，转过头去。

‘You owe her her wages, I suppose?’ said the Peer.
“我想你欠她工资吧？”同行说。

‘Worse than that,’ said Becky, still casting down her eyes; ‘I have ruined her.’
“比这更糟糕，”贝基说道，眼睛仍然低垂着。 “我毁了她。”

‘Ruined her? Then why don’t you turn her out?’ the gentleman asked.
‘毁了她？那你为什么不把她赶出去呢？”那位绅士问道。

‘Men do that,’ Becky answered bitterly. ‘Women are not so bad as you. Last year, when we were reduced to our last guinea, she gave us everything. She shall never leave me, until we are ruined utterly ourselves, which does not seem far off, or until I can pay her the utmost farthing.’
“男人都会这么做，”贝基痛苦地回答。 ‘女人没你那么坏。去年，当我们只剩下最后几尼的时候，她给了我们一切。她永远不会离开我，直到我们彻底毁灭，这似乎并不遥远，或者直到我能付给她最大的钱。

‘——— it, how much is it?’ said the Peer with an oath. And Becky, reflecting on the largeness of his means, mentioned not only the sum which she had borrowed from Miss Briggs, but one of nearly double the amount.
“——它，多少钱？”同行发誓道。贝基考虑到他的财力雄厚，不仅提到了她从布里格斯小姐那里借的金额，而且还提到了几乎两倍的金额。

This caused the Lord Steyne to break out in another brief and energetic expression of anger, at which Rebecca held down her head the more and cried bitterly. ‘I could not help it. It was my only chance. I dare not tell my husband. He would kill me if I told him what I have done. I have kept it a secret from everybody but you— and you forced it from me. Ah, what shall I do, Lord Steyne? for I am very, very unhappy!’
这让斯泰因勋爵再次爆发出短暂而有力的愤怒表情，丽贝卡更加低下头，痛哭起来。 '我帮不了忙。这是我唯一的机会。我不敢告诉我丈夫。如果我告诉他我做了什么，他会杀了我。除了你之外，我对所有人都保守着这个秘密——而你却强迫我知道了。啊，我该怎么办，斯泰因大人？因为我非常非常不高兴！”

Lord Steyne made no reply except by beating the devil’s tattoo and biting his nails. At last he clapped his hat on his head and flung out of the room. Rebecca did not rise from her attitude of misery until the door slammed upon him and his carriage whirled away. Then she rose up with the queerest expression of victorious mischief glittering in her green eyes. She burst out laughing once or twice to herself, as she sat at work, and sitting down to the piano, she rattled away a triumphant voluntary on the keys, which made the people pause under her window to listen to her brilliant music.
斯泰因勋爵没有做出任何回应，只是敲打着恶魔的纹身，咬着指甲。最后他把帽子戴在头上，然后冲出了房间。丽贝卡才从她痛苦的态度中站起来，直到车门砰地一声关在他身上，他的马车呼啸而去。然后她站了起来，绿色的眼睛里闪烁着胜利的恶作剧的最奇怪的表情。当她坐下来工作时，她会自己大笑一两次，然后坐在钢琴前，她在琴键上发出胜利的自愿声，这使得人们在她的窗下驻足聆听她美妙的音乐。

That night, there came two notes from Gaunt House for the little woman, the one containing a card of invitation from Lord and Lady Steyne to a dinner at Gaunt House next Friday, while the other enclosed a slip of gray paper bearing Lord Steyne’s signature and the address of Messrs. Jones, Brown, and Robinson, Lombard Street.
那天晚上，冈特府给这个小女人带来了两张纸条，一张包含斯泰因勋爵和夫人下周五去冈特府参加晚宴的邀请卡，另一张附上一张灰色的纸条，上面有斯泰因勋爵的签名和琼斯、布朗和罗宾逊先生的地址，朗伯德街。

Rawdon heard Becky laughing in the night once or twice. It was only her delight at going to Gaunt House and facing the ladies there, she said, which amused her so. But the truth was that she was occupied with a great number of other thoughts. Should she pay off old Briggs and give her her conge? Should she astonish Raggles by settling his account? She turned over all these thoughts on her pillow, and on the next day, when Rawdon went out to pay his morning visit to the Club, Mrs. Crawley (in a modest dress with a veil on) whipped off in a hackney-coach to the City: and being landed at Messrs. Jones and Robinson’s bank, presented a document there to the authority at the desk, who, in reply, asked her ‘How she would take it?’
罗登在夜里听到贝基笑过一两次。她说，只是她很高兴去冈特庄园，面对那里的女士们，这让她觉得很有趣。但事实是，她心里有很多其他的想法。她应该还清老布里格斯的钱并给她粥吗？她应该给拉格斯算账，让他大吃一惊吗？她在枕头上翻阅了所有这些想法，第二天，当罗登出去早上参观俱乐部时，克劳利夫人（穿着朴素的衣服，戴着面纱）乘一辆出租马车出发去市政府：降落在琼斯和罗宾逊先生的银行，向前台当局出示了一份文件，当局回答说，“她会如何接受？”

She gently said ‘she would take a hundred and fifty pounds in small notes and the remainder in one note”: and passing through St. Paul’s Churchyard stopped there and bought the handsomest black silk gown for Briggs which money could buy; and which, with a kiss and the kindest speeches, she presented to the simple old spinster.
她温柔地说，“她愿意用小钞票取一百五十英镑，其余的用一张钞票”：然后经过圣保罗教堂墓地，在那儿停下来，为布​​里格斯买了一件钱可以买到的最漂亮的黑色丝质礼服；她用一个吻和最善意的言语把它送给了这位朴素的老处女。

Then she walked to Mr. Raggles, inquired about his children affectionately, and gave him fifty pounds on account. Then she went to the livery-man from whom she jobbed her carriages and gratified him with a similar sum. ‘And I hope this will be a lesson to you, Spavin,’ she said, ‘and that on the next drawing-room day my brother, Sir Pitt, will not be inconvenienced by being obliged to take four of us in his carriage to wait upon His Majesty, because my own carriage is not forthcoming.’ It appears there had been a difference on the last drawing-room day. Hence the degradation which the Colonel had almost suffered, of being obliged to enter the presence of his Sovereign in a hack cab.
然后她走到拉格斯先生身边，亲切地询问他孩子们的情况，并给了他五十英镑。然后她去找马车夫，从他那里调配了马车，并用同样的钱满足了他。 “我希望这对你来说是一个教训，斯帕文，”她说，“并且在第二天的客厅里，我的兄弟皮特爵士不会因为不得不带着我们四个人乘坐马车去那里而感到不便。 “请等候陛下，因为我自己的马车还没有来。” 看来在客厅的最后一天，情况有所不同。因此，上校几乎遭受了屈辱，因为他不得不乘坐一辆出租马车来到他的君主面前。

These arrangements concluded, Becky paid a visit upstairs to the before-mentioned desk, which Amelia Sedley had given her years and years ago, and which contained a number of useful and valuable little things—in which private museum she placed the one note which Messrs. Jones and Robinson’s cashier had given her.
这些安排结束后，贝基上楼参观了前面提到的桌子，那是阿米莉亚·塞德利很多年前送给她的，里面有许多有用且有价值的小东西——她在私人博物馆里放了一张纸条，上面写着琼斯和罗宾逊的收银员都给了她。

Chapter XLIX
第四十九章


In Which We Enjoy Three Courses and a Dessert
我们享用三道菜和一份甜点

When the ladies of Gaunt House were at breakfast that morning, Lord Steyne (who took his chocolate in private and seldom disturbed the females of his household, or saw them except upon public days, or when they crossed each other in the hall, or when from his pit-box at the opera he surveyed them in their box on the grand tier) his lordship, we say, appeared among the ladies and the children who were assembled over the tea and toast, and a battle royal ensued apropos of Rebecca.
那天早上冈特宫的女士们吃早餐时，斯泰因勋爵（他私下里拿走了他的巧克力，很少打扰他家里的女性，或者除了公共日，或者当他们在大厅里互相交叉时，或者当他们在公共场合见面时）我们说，他的勋爵出现在聚集在一起喝茶和烤面包的女士们和孩子们中间，一场关于丽贝卡的皇家大战随之展开。

‘My Lady Steyne,’ he said, ‘I want to see the list for your dinner on Friday; and I want you, if you please, to write a card for Colonel and Mrs. Crawley.’
“斯泰恩女士，”他说，“我想看看您周五晚餐的名单；如果您愿意的话，我希望您为克劳利上校和夫人写一张卡片。

‘Blanche writes them,’ Lady Steyne said in a flutter. ‘Lady Gaunt writes them.’
“布兰奇写的，”斯泰因夫人激动地说。 “冈特夫人写的。”

‘I will not write to that person,’ Lady Gaunt said, a tall and stately lady, who looked up for an instant and then down again after she had spoken. It was not good to meet Lord Steyne’s eyes for those who had offended him.
“我不会写信给那个人，”冈特夫人说道，她是一位身材高大、庄严的女士，她抬起头看了一眼，然后又低下了头。对于那些冒犯过斯泰因勋爵的人来说，与他的目光对视并不好。

‘Send the children out of the room. Go!’ said he pulling at the bell-rope. The urchins, always frightened before him, retired: their mother would have followed too. ‘Not you,’ he said. ‘You stop.’
‘把孩子们赶出房间。走吧！”他拉着铃绳说道。总是在他面前感到害怕的顽童们退了出去：他们的母亲也会跟着退去。 “不是你，”他说。 “你停下来。”

‘My Lady Steyne,’ he said, ‘once more will you have the goodness to go to the desk and write that card for your dinner on Friday?’
“斯泰恩女士，”他说，“您能再次到办公桌前写下那张卡片作为周五的晚餐吗？”

‘My Lord, I will not be present at it,’ Lady Gaunt said; ‘I will go home.’
“陛下，我不会出席，”冈特夫人说道。 '我会回家。'

‘I wish you would, and stay there. You will find the bailiffs at Bareacres very pleasant company, and I shall be freed from lending money to your relations and from your own damned tragedy airs. Who are you to give orders here? You have no money. You’ve got no brains. You were here to have children, and you have not had any. Gaunt’s tired of you, and George’s wife is the only person in the family who doesn’t wish you were dead. Gaunt would marry again if you were.’
“我希望你愿意，并留在那里。你会发现巴里亚克斯的法警是非常愉快的伙伴，我将不再借钱给你的亲戚，也不再有你自己该死的悲剧神情。你是谁，敢在这里发号施令？你没有钱。你没脑子。你来这里是为了生孩子，但你还没有孩子。冈特厌倦了你，乔治的妻子是家里唯一不希望你死的人。如果你是的话，冈特会再婚的。

‘I wish I were,’ her Ladyship answered with tears and rage in her eyes.
“我希望我是，”夫人回答道，眼中充满泪水和愤怒。

‘You, forsooth, must give yourself airs of virtue, while my wife, who is an immaculate saint, as everybody knows, and never did wrong in her life, has no objection to meet my young friend Mrs. Crawley. My Lady Steyne knows that appearances are sometimes against the best of women; that lies are often told about the most innocent of them. Pray, madam, shall I tell you some little anecdotes about my Lady Bareacres, your mamma?’
“当然，你必须表现得有德行，而我的妻子，众所周知，她是一位完美的圣人，一生中从未做过错事，她并不反对会见我年轻的朋友克劳利夫人。斯泰恩夫人知道，外表有时对最好的女人来说是不利的。谎言常常针对他们中最无辜的人。女士，请问我可以告诉您一些关于您的妈妈巴里亚克斯女士的小轶事吗？

‘You may strike me if you like, sir, or hit any cruel blow,’ Lady Gaunt said. To see his wife and daughter suffering always put his Lordship into a good humour.
“如果你愿意的话，你可以打我，先生，或者用任何残酷的打击，”冈特夫人说。看到他的妻子和女儿受苦，总能让勋爵心情愉悦。

‘My sweet Blanche,’ he said, ‘I am a gentleman, and never lay my hand upon a woman, save in the way of kindness. I only wish to correct little faults in your character. You women are too proud, and sadly lack humility, as Father Mole, I’m sure, would tell my Lady Steyne if he were here. You mustn’t give yourselves airs; you must be meek and humble, my blessings. For all Lady Steyne knows, this calumniated, simple, good-humoured Mrs. Crawley is quite innocent—even more innocent than herself. Her husband’s character is not good, but it is as good as Bareacres’, who has played a little and not paid a great deal, who cheated you out of the only legacy you ever had and left you a pauper on my hands. And Mrs. Crawley is not very well-born, but she is not worse than Fanny’s illustrious ancestor, the first de la Jones.’
“我亲爱的布兰奇，”他说，“我是一位绅士，除了出于善意，我从来不会对女人下手。”我只是想纠正你性格上的小缺点。你们女人太骄傲了，可悲的是缺乏谦逊，正如鼹鼠神父，我确信，如果他在这里，他会告诉我的斯泰恩夫人。不要摆架子；你必须温柔谦卑，我的祝福。据斯泰恩夫人所知，这位饱受诽谤的、单纯的、幽默的克劳利夫人是相当无辜的——甚至比她自己还要无辜。她丈夫的人品不好，但和巴里亚克斯一样好，他玩了一点，付出的钱不多，骗走了你唯一的遗产，让你成为我手上的乞丐。而且克劳利夫人出身并不出名，但她并不比范妮的显赫祖先德拉琼斯第一世差。

‘The money which I brought into the family, sir,’ Lady George cried out—
“先生，我给家里带来的钱，”乔治夫人喊道——

‘You purchased a contingent reversion with it,’ the Marquis said darkly. ‘If Gaunt dies, your husband may come to his honours; your little boys may inherit them, and who knows what besides? In the meanwhile, ladies, be as proud and virtuous as you like abroad, but don’t give ME any airs. As for Mrs. Crawley’s character, I shan’t demean myself or that most spotless and perfectly irreproachable lady by even hinting that it requires a defence. You will be pleased to receive her with the utmost cordiality, as you will receive all persons whom I present in this house. This house?’ He broke out with a laugh. ‘Who is the master of it? and what is it? This Temple of Virtue belongs to me. And if I invite all Newgate or all Bedlam here, by ——— they shall be welcome.’
“你用它购买了一次偶然的回归，”侯爵阴沉地说。 “如果冈特死了，你的丈夫可能会得到他的荣誉；你的小男孩可能会继承它们，谁知道除此之外还会发生什么？与此同时，女士们，像在国外一样骄傲和贤惠，但不要给我任何架子。至于克劳利夫人的性格，我不会因为暗示需要辩护而贬低我自己或那位最一尘不染、完全无可指责的女士。您会很高兴以最诚挚的态度接待她，就像您会接待我在这所房子里介绍的所有人一样。这栋房子？”他大笑起来。 ‘谁是它的主人？还有，这是什么？这座德行殿是我的。如果我邀请所有纽盖特或所有疯人院的人来这里，我会——他们将受到欢迎。

After this vigorous allocution, to one of which sort Lord Steyne treated his ‘Hareem’ whenever symptoms of insubordination appeared in his household, the crestfallen women had nothing for it but to obey. Lady Gaunt wrote the invitation which his Lordship required, and she and her mother-in-law drove in person, and with bitter and humiliated hearts, to leave the cards on Mrs. Rawdon, the reception of which caused that innocent woman so much pleasure.
在这场激烈的谈话之后，斯泰因勋爵每当家里出现不服从的症状时都会对待他的“后宫”，垂头丧气的妇女们除了服从之外别无选择。冈特夫人写下了勋爵阁下所要求的邀请函，她和她的婆婆怀着痛苦和屈辱的心情，亲自开车前往，将卡片留给了罗登夫人，罗登夫人的接待让那个无辜的女人非常高兴。

There were families in London who would have sacrificed a year’s income to receive such an honour at the hands of those great ladies. Mrs. Frederick Bullock, for instance, would have gone on her knees from May Fair to Lombard Street, if Lady Steyne and Lady Gaunt had been waiting in the City to raise her up and say, ‘Come to us next Friday’—not to one of the great crushes and grand balls of Gaunt House, whither everybody went, but to the sacred, unapproachable, mysterious, delicious entertainments, to be admitted to one of which was a privilege, and an honour, and a blessing indeed.
伦敦有些家庭愿意牺牲一年的收入，才能从那些伟大的女士手中获得这样的荣誉。例如，如果斯泰恩夫人和冈特夫人在城里等着把弗雷德里克·布洛克夫人扶起来并说：“下周五到我们这里来”，那么她就会从五月集市跪到朗伯德街——而不是为了让她站起来。冈特宫最盛大的聚会和盛大的舞会之一，每个人都去那里，但都是为了参加神圣的、难以接近的、神秘的、美味的娱乐活动，能够参加其中的一场活动确实是一种特权、一种荣誉和一种祝福。

Severe, spotless, and beautiful, Lady Gaunt held the very highest rank in Vanity Fair. The distinguished courtesy with which Lord Steyne treated her charmed everybody who witnessed his behaviour, caused the severest critics to admit how perfect a gentleman he was, and to own that his Lordship’s heart at least was in the right place.
严肃、一尘不染、美丽的冈特夫人在《名利场》中拥有最高的地位。斯泰因勋爵对待她的杰出礼貌让每一个目睹他行为的人都着迷，让最严厉的批评者承认他是一位多么完美的绅士，并承认勋爵的心至少是在正确的地方。

The ladies of Gaunt House called Lady Bareacres in to their aid, in order to repulse the common enemy. One of Lady Gaunt’s carriages went to Hill Street for her Ladyship’s mother, all whose equipages were in the hands of the bailiffs, whose very jewels and wardrobe, it was said, had been seized by those inexorable Israelites. Bareacres Castle was theirs, too, with all its costly pictures, furniture, and articles of vertu—the magnificent Vandykes; the noble Reynolds pictures; the Lawrence portraits, tawdry and beautiful, and, thirty years ago, deemed as precious as works of real genius; the matchless Dancing Nymph of Canova, for which Lady Bareacres had sat in her youth—Lady Bareacres splendid then, and radiant in wealth, rank, and beauty—a toothless, bald, old woman now—a mere rag of a former robe of state. Her lord, painted at the same time by Lawrence, as waving his sabre in front of Bareacres Castle, and clothed in his uniform as Colonel of the Thistlewood Yeomanry, was a withered, old, lean man in a greatcoat and a Brutus wig, slinking about Gray’s Inn of mornings chiefly and dining alone at clubs. He did not like to dine with Steyne now. They had run races of pleasure together in youth when Bareacres was the winner. But Steyne had more bottom than he and had lasted him out. The Marquis was ten times a greater man now than the young Lord Gaunt of ‘85, and Bareacres nowhere in the race—old, beaten, bankrupt, and broken down. He had borrowed too much money of Steyne to find it pleasant to meet his old comrade often. The latter, whenever he wished to be merry, used jeeringly to ask Lady Gaunt why her father had not come to see her. ‘He has not been here for four months,’ Lord Steyne would say. ‘I can always tell by my cheque-book afterwards, when I get a visit from Bareacres. What a comfort it is, my ladies, I bank with one of my sons’ fathers-in-law, and the other banks with me!’
冈特府的女士们请巴里亚克斯女士前来援助，以击退共同的敌人。冈特夫人的一辆马车前往希尔街接她夫人的母亲，她的所有装备都在法警手中，据说，她的珠宝和衣柜都被那些无情的以色列人没收了。巴雷埃克斯城堡也是他们的，里面有所有昂贵的图画、家具和华丽的物品——宏伟的范戴克斯；高贵的雷诺兹照片；劳伦斯的肖像画，俗气而美丽，三十年前被视为与真正天才的作品一样珍贵；无与伦比的卡诺瓦舞仙女，巴里亚克斯夫人年轻时就曾为她坐过——当时的巴里亚克斯夫人光彩照人，在财富、地位和美丽方面容光焕发——现在是一个没有牙齿、秃头的老妇人——只不过是一件以前的国家长袍的破布。在劳伦斯的画中，她的主人在同一时间在巴雷埃克斯城堡前挥舞着军刀，身着蓟木自耕骑兵上校的制服，是一位枯瘦的老人，身穿大衣，戴着布鲁图斯假发，鬼鬼祟祟地走着。主要是关于格雷旅馆的早晨和独自在俱乐部用餐。他现在不喜欢和斯泰因一起吃饭。他们年轻时曾一起参加过快乐的赛跑，当时巴里亚克斯是获胜者。但斯泰因比他更有底气，并且把他拖了下来。侯爵现在比85年年轻的冈特勋爵要伟大十倍，而巴里亚克斯在比赛中毫无地位——年老、被打败、破产、崩溃。他向斯泰因借了太多的钱，经常见到他的老战友并不愉快。后者每当想快乐的时候，都会嘲笑地问冈特夫人为什么她的父亲没有来看她。 “他已经四个月没来了，”斯泰因勋爵会说。 “事后，当巴里亚克斯来访时，我总是可以通过我的支票簿得知。我的女士们，我和我儿子的岳父之一一起办理银行业务，其他银行也和我一起办理银行业务，这真是一种安慰！’

Of the other illustrious persons whom Becky had the honour to encounter on this her first presentation to the grand world, it does not become the present historian to say much. There was his Excellency the Prince of Peterwaradin, with his Princess—a nobleman tightly girthed, with a large military chest, on which the plaque of his order shone magnificently, and wearing the red collar of the Golden Fleece round his neck. He was the owner of countless flocks. ‘Look at his face. I think he must be descended from a sheep,’ Becky whispered to Lord Steyne. Indeed, his Excellency’s countenance, long, solemn, and white, with the ornament round his neck, bore some resemblance to that of a venerable bell-wether.
对于贝基在她第一次向世界展示时有幸遇到的其他杰出人物，现在的历史学家不宜多说。彼得瓦拉丁亲王阁下和他的公主——一位贵族，腰部紧绷，胸前有一个宽大的军用胸膛，胸前的勋章闪闪发光，脖子上戴着红色的金羊毛领子。他是无数羊群的主人。 ‘看看他的脸。我想他一定是绵羊的后裔。”贝基低声对斯泰因勋爵说道。确实，大人的面容修长，肃穆，雪白，脖子上挂着饰物，颇有几分德高望重的领头羊的样子。

There was Mr. John Paul Jefferson Jones, titularly attached to the American Embassy and correspondent of the New York Demagogue, who, by way of making himself agreeable to the company, asked Lady Steyne, during a pause in the conversation at dinner, how his dear friend, George Gaunt, liked the Brazils? He and George had been most intimate at Naples and had gone up Vesuvius together. Mr. Jones wrote a full and particular account of the dinner, which appeared duly in the Demagogue. He mentioned the names and titles of all the guests, giving biographical sketches of the principal people. He described the persons of the ladies with great eloquence; the service of the table; the size and costume of the servants; enumerated the dishes and wines served; the ornaments of the sideboard; and the probable value of the plate. Such a dinner he calculated could not be dished up under fifteen or eighteen dollars per head. And he was in the habit, until very lately, of sending over proteges, with letters of recommendation to the present Marquis of Steyne, encouraged to do so by the intimate terms on which he had lived with his dear friend, the late lord. He was most indignant that a young and insignificant aristocrat, the Earl of Southdown, should have taken the pas of him in their procession to the diningroom. ‘Just as I was stepping up to offer my hand to a very pleasing and witty fashionable, the brilliant and exclusive Mrs. Rawdon Crawley,’—he wrote—‘the young patrician interposed between me and the lady and whisked my Helen off without a word of apology. I was fain to bring up the rear with the Colonel, the lady’s husband, a stout red-faced warrior who distinguished himself at Waterloo, where he had better luck than befell some of his brother redcoats at New Orleans.’
约翰·保罗·杰斐逊·琼斯先生是美国大使馆的名义上的官员，也是《纽约煽动家》的记者，他为了让自己同意这家公司，在晚宴谈话的间隙，问斯泰恩夫人，他的情况如何？亲爱的朋友乔治冈特喜欢巴西队吗？他和乔治在那不勒斯最为亲密，还一起登上了维苏威火山。琼斯先生对这次晚宴写了一篇完整而具体的报道，并及时发表在《煽动家》上。他提到了所有客人的姓名和头衔，并简要介绍了主要人物的简历。他非常雄辩地描述了女士们的性格。餐桌服务；仆人的身材和服装；列举了所提供的菜肴和酒；餐具柜的装饰品；以及盘子的可能价值。他计算出这样的晚餐每人的价格不会低于十五或十八美元。直到最近，他还习惯于派遣门生带着推荐信给现任斯泰因侯爵，他与亲爱的朋友、已故领主的亲密关系鼓励他这么做。他最气愤的是，一个年轻而无足轻重的贵族，绍斯当伯爵，竟然在前往餐厅的行列中带着他的通行证。 “正当我向一位非常讨人喜欢、机智时尚、才华横溢、独特的罗登·克劳利夫人伸出援手时，”他写道，“这位年轻的贵族插在我和这位女士之间，不假思索地把我的海伦带走了。”道歉的话。我很乐意和那位女士的丈夫上校一起走在最后，他是一位粗壮的红脸战士，在滑铁卢战役中表现出色，在那里他的运气比他在新奥尔良的一些红衣兄弟的运气要好。

The Colonel’s countenance on coming into this polite society wore as many blushes as the face of a boy of sixteen assumes when he is confronted with his sister’s schoolfellows. It has been told before that honest Rawdon had not been much used at any period of his life to ladies’ company. With the men at the Club or the mess room, he was well enough; and could ride, bet, smoke, or play at billiards with the boldest of them. He had had his time for female friendships too, but that was twenty years ago, and the ladies were of the rank of those with whom Young Marlow in the comedy is represented as having been familiar before he became abashed in the presence of Miss Hardcastle. The times are such that one scarcely dares to allude to that kind of company which thousands of our young men in Vanity Fair are frequenting every day, which nightly fills casinos and dancing-rooms, which is known to exist as well as the Ring in Hyde Park or the Congregation at St. James’s—but which the most squeamish if not the most moral of societies is determined to ignore. In a word, although Colonel Crawley was now five-and-forty years of age, it had not been his lot in life to meet with a half dozen good women, besides his paragon of a wife. All except her and his kind sister Lady Jane, whose gentle nature had tamed and won him, scared the worthy Colonel, and on occasion of his first dinner at Gaunt House he was not heard to make a single remark except to state that the weather was very hot. Indeed Becky would have left him at home, but that virtue ordained that her husband should be by her side to protect the timid and fluttering little creature on her first appearance in polite society.
上校一进入这个上流社会，脸上就泛起红晕，就像一个十六岁的男孩面对他姐姐的同学时脸上的红晕一样。以前就有人说过，诚实的罗登在一生中的任何时期都没有过多地与女士为伍。与俱乐部或餐厅里的男人相处，他已经很舒服了。可以和最大胆的人一起骑马、打赌、抽烟或打台球。他也曾有过与女性友谊的时光，但那是二十年前的事了，喜剧中的年轻马洛在面对哈卡斯特小姐感到羞愧之前，与这些女士们的关系就很熟悉了。如今，人们几乎不敢提及《名利场》中成千上万的年轻人每天经常光顾的那种公司，这种公司每晚都挤满赌场和舞厅，众所周知，这种公司和海德的指环王一样存在。帕克或圣詹姆斯会众——但即使不是最道德的社会，也是最神经质的社会决心忽视它们。总之，虽然克劳利上校现在已经五四十岁了，但除了他的模范妻子之外，他一生中还没有遇到过六个好女人。除了她和他善良的妹妹简夫人，她温柔的天性驯服并赢得了他，吓坏了可敬的上校，在冈特庄园第一次吃晚饭时，除了说天气不好之外，没有人听到他说任何一句话。很热。贝基确实会把他留在家里，但这种美德注定了她的丈夫应该在她身边，保护她第一次出现在上流社会时胆怯而颤抖的小生物。

On her first appearance Lord Steyne stepped forward, taking her hand, and greeting her with great courtesy, and presenting her to Lady Steyne, and their ladyships, her daughters. Their ladyships made three stately curtsies, and the elder lady to be sure gave her hand to the newcomer, but it was as cold and lifeless as marble.
在她第一次露面时，斯泰因勋爵走上前来，握住她的手，非常有礼貌地向她打招呼，并将她介绍给斯泰因夫人以及他们的女士们，她的女儿们。她们的女士们庄严地行了三个屈膝礼，老太太当然也向新来者伸出了手，但那手像大理石一样冰冷、毫无生气。

Becky took it, however, with grateful humility, and performing a reverence which would have done credit to the best dancer-master, put herself at Lady Steyne’s feet, as it were, by saying that his Lordship had been her father’s earliest friend and patron, and that she, Becky, had learned to honour and respect the Steyne family from the days of her childhood. The fact is that Lord Steyne had once purchased a couple of pictures of the late Sharp, and the affectionate orphan could never forget her gratitude for that favour.
然而，贝基怀着感激的谦逊接受了它，并表现出一种尊敬，这本来可以为最好的舞蹈大师赢得荣誉，她把自己放在斯泰因夫人的脚下，说他的勋爵是她父亲最早的朋友和赞助人，而她，贝基，从小就学会了尊重和尊重斯泰因家族。事实上，斯泰因勋爵曾经购买过几张已故夏普的照片，这位深情的孤儿永远不会忘记她对这一恩惠的感激之情。

The Lady Bareacres then came under Becky’s cognizance—to whom the Colonel’s lady made also a most respectful obeisance: it was returned with severe dignity by the exalted person in question.
随后，巴里亚克斯女士受到了贝基的认可——上校的夫人也向她致以最崇高的敬意：这位尊贵的人以庄严的尊严回敬了她。

‘I had the pleasure of making your Ladyship’s acquaintance at Brussels, ten years ago,’ Becky said in the most winning manner. ‘I had the good fortune to meet Lady Bareacres at the Duchess of Richmond’s ball, the night before the Battle of Waterloo. And I recollect your Ladyship, and my Lady Blanche, your daughter, sitting in the carriage in the porte-cochere at the Inn, waiting for horses. I hope your Ladyship’s diamonds are safe.’
“十年前，我有幸在布鲁塞尔认识了夫人阁下，”贝基用最迷人的语气说道。 “滑铁卢战役前一天晚上，我有幸在里士满公爵夫人的舞会上见到了巴里亚克斯夫人。我记得您的夫人，以及您的女儿布兰奇夫人，坐在旅馆门廊的马车里，等待马匹。我希望夫人的钻石安全。”

Everybody’s eyes looked into their neighbour’s. The famous diamonds had undergone a famous seizure, it appears, about which Becky, of course, knew nothing. Rawdon Crawley retreated with Lord Southdown into a window, where the latter was heard to laugh immoderately, as Rawdon told him the story of Lady Bareacres wanting horses and ‘knuckling down by Jove,’ to Mrs. Crawley. ‘I think I needn’t be afraid of THAT woman,’ Becky thought. Indeed, Lady Bareacres exchanged terrified and angry looks with her daughter and retreated to a table, where she began to look at pictures with great energy.
每个人的眼睛都看着他们邻居的眼睛。那些著名的钻石似乎经历了一次著名的扣押，贝基当然对此一无所知。罗登·克劳利和绍斯当勋爵一起退到窗子里，听到后者放肆地大笑，罗登向他讲述了巴里亚克斯夫人想要马匹并向克劳利夫人“向朱庇特屈服”的故事。 “我想我不必害怕那个女人，”贝基想。事实上，巴里亚克斯夫人与她的女儿交换了恐惧和愤怒的眼神，然后退到一张桌子旁，开始精力充沛地看着照片。

When the Potentate from the Danube made his appearance, the conversation was carried on in the French language, and the Lady Bareacres and the younger ladies found, to their farther mortification, that Mrs. Crawley was much better acquainted with that tongue, and spoke it with a much better accent than they. Becky had met other Hungarian magnates with the army in France in 1816-17. She asked after her friends with great interest The foreign personages thought that she was a lady of great distinction, and the Prince and the Princess asked severally of Lord Steyne and the Marchioness, whom they conducted to dinner, who was that petite dame who spoke so well?
当来自多瑙河的君主出现时，谈话是用法语进行的，巴里亚克斯夫人和年轻的女士们发现克劳利夫人更熟悉法语，并说法语，这让她们更加羞愧。口音比他们好得多。 1816-17 年，贝基在法国军队中会见了其他匈牙利权贵。她饶有兴致地询问朋友们的情况。外国人士都认为她是一位德高望重的女士，王子和公主分别询问带他们去吃饭的斯泰因勋爵和侯爵夫人，那位说话如此娇小的女士是谁？出色地？

Finally, the procession being formed in the order described by the American diplomatist, they marched into the apartment where the banquet was served, and which, as I have promised the reader he shall enjoy it, he shall have the liberty of ordering himself so as to suit his fancy.
最后，游行队伍按照美国外交官描述的顺序排列，他们走进举办宴会的公寓，正如我向读者保证的那样，他将享受宴会，他将有自由命令自己，以便以满足他的喜好。

But it was when the ladies were alone that Becky knew the tug of war would come. And then indeed the little woman found herself in such a situation as made her acknowledge the correctness of Lord Steyne’s caution to her to beware of the society of ladies above her own sphere. As they say, the persons who hate Irishmen most are Irishmen; so, assuredly, the greatest tyrants over women are women. When poor little Becky, alone with the ladies, went up to the fireplace whither the great ladies had repaired, the great ladies marched away and took possession of a table of drawings. When Becky followed them to the table of drawings, they dropped off one by one to the fire again. She tried to speak to one of the children (of whom she was commonly fond in public places), but Master George Gaunt was called away by his mamma; and the stranger was treated with such cruelty finally, that even Lady Steyne herself pitied her and went up to speak to the friendless little woman.
但当女士们独处时，贝基知道拉锯战即将到来。事实上，这个小女人发现自己处于这样的境地，这让她承认斯泰因勋爵对她的警告是正确的，要提防超出她自己范围的女士们的社交。正如人们所说，最讨厌爱尔兰人的人是爱尔兰人；因此，毫无疑问，对女性最大的暴君就是女性。当可怜的小贝基独自和女士们一起走到女士们修好的壁炉前时，女士们大步走开，拿走了一张图纸。当贝基跟着他们来到图画桌前时，他们又一一落到了火边。她试图与其中一个孩子说话（她在公共场所通常很喜欢他们），但乔治·冈特大师被他的妈妈叫走了；这个陌生人最终受到了如此残酷的对待，甚至斯泰因夫人本人也同情她，走上前去和这个没有朋友的小女人说话。

‘Lord Steyne,’ said her Ladyship, as her wan cheeks glowed with a blush, ‘says you sing and play very beautifully, Mrs. Crawley—I wish you would do me the kindness to sing to me.’
“斯泰因勋爵，”夫人苍白的脸颊泛起红晕，“说你唱歌弹得非常好，克劳利夫人——我希望你能帮我唱歌给我听。”

‘I will do anything that may give pleasure to my Lord Steyne or to you,’ said Rebecca, sincerely grateful, and seating herself at the piano, began to sing.
“我会做任何能让我的斯泰因勋爵或您高兴的事情，”丽贝卡真诚地感激地说，坐在钢琴前开始唱歌。

She sang religious songs of Mozart, which had been early favourites of Lady Steyne, and with such sweetness and tenderness that the lady, lingering round the piano, sat down by its side and listened until the tears rolled down her eyes. It is true that the opposition ladies at the other end of the room kept up a loud and ceaseless buzzing and talking, but the Lady Steyne did not hear those rumours. She was a child again—and had wandered back through a forty years’ wilderness to her convent garden. The chapel organ had pealed the same tones, the organist, the sister whom she loved best of the community, had taught them to her in those early happy days. She was a girl once more, and the brief period of her happiness bloomed out again for an hour—she started when the jarring doors were flung open, and with a loud laugh from Lord Steyne, the men of the party entered full of gaiety.
她唱着莫扎特的宗教歌曲，这是斯泰因夫人早期最喜欢的歌曲，歌曲的甜美和温柔让这位女士在钢琴旁徘徊，坐在钢琴旁边，听着，直到泪水滚落。确实，房间另一端的反对派女士们一直在大声、不停地嗡嗡说话，但斯泰因女士并没有听到这些谣言。她又回到了童年——漫步穿过四十年的荒野，回到了她的修道院花园。教堂的管风琴发出同样的音调，风琴手，她最喜欢的社区姐妹，在早年快乐的日子里教给了她这些音调。她又变成了一个女孩，她短暂的幸福再次绽放了一个小时——当刺耳的门猛地打开时，她吃了一惊，伴随着斯泰因勋爵的一声大笑，一行人满怀欢乐地走进来。

He saw at a glance what had happened in his absence, and was grateful to his wife for once. He went and spoke to her, and called her by her Christian name, so as again to bring blushes to her pale face—‘My wife says you have been singing like an angel,’ he said to Becky. Now there are angels of two kinds, and both sorts, it is said, are charming in their way.
他一眼就看出了自己不在的时候发生的事情，这一次对妻子心生感激。他走过去和她说话，用她的教名称呼她，以便再次让她苍白的脸红起来——“我的妻子说你唱歌得像天使一样，”他对贝基说。现在有两种天使，据说，两种天使都各有魅力。

Whatever the previous portion of the evening had been, the rest of that night was a great triumph for Becky. She sang her very best, and it was so good that every one of the men came and crowded round the piano. The women, her enemies, were left quite alone. And Mr. Paul Jefferson Jones thought he had made a conquest of Lady Gaunt by going up to her Ladyship and praising her delightful friend’s firstrate singing.
无论那天晚上的前一部分发生了什么，那天晚上剩下的时间对贝基来说都是一个巨大的胜利。她唱得最好听，太好听了，每个男人都围到了钢琴周围。那些女人，她的敌人，被孤立无援。保罗·杰斐逊·琼斯先生认为，他走到冈特夫人面前，称赞她那令人愉快的朋友一流的歌声，从而征服了她。

Chapter L
L章


Contains a Vulgar Incident
含有低俗事件

The Muse, whoever she be, who presides over this Comic History must now descend from the genteel heights in which she has been soaring and have the goodness to drop down upon the lowly roof of John Sedley at Brompton, and describe what events are taking place there. Here, too, in this humble tenement, live care, and distrust, and dismay. Mrs. Clapp in the kitchen is grumbling in secret to her husband about the rent, and urging the good fellow to rebel against his old friend and patron and his present lodger. Mrs. Sedley has ceased to visit her landlady in the lower regions now, and indeed is in a position to patronize Mrs. Clapp no longer. How can one be condescending to a lady to whom one owes a matter of forty pounds, and who is perpetually throwing out hints for the money? The Irish maidservant has not altered in the least in her kind and respectful behaviour; but Mrs. Sedley fancies that she is growing insolent and ungrateful, and, as the guilty thief who fears each bush an officer, sees threatening innuendoes and hints of capture in all the girl’s speeches and answers. Miss Clapp, grown quite a young woman now, is declared by the soured old lady to be an unbearable and impudent little minx. Why Amelia can be so fond of her, or have her in her room so much, or walk out with her so constantly, Mrs. Sedley cannot conceive. The bitterness of poverty has poisoned the life of the once cheerful and kindly woman. She is thankless for Amelia’s constant and gentle bearing towards her; carps at her for her efforts at kindness or service; rails at her for her silly pride in her child and her neglect of her parents. Georgy’s house is not a very lively one since Uncle Jos’s annuity has been withdrawn and the little family are almost upon famine diet.
主持这部漫画史的缪斯，无论她是谁，现在必须从她一直翱翔的优雅高度下降，并有幸降落在布朗普顿约翰·塞德利的低矮屋顶上，描述正在发生的事件那里。在这里，在这间简陋的公寓里，也充满了关怀、不信任和沮丧。厨房里的克拉普太太正在偷偷地向丈夫抱怨房租问题，并敦促这个好人反抗他的老朋友、赞助人和现在的房客。塞德利夫人现在已经不再去低地地区拜访她的女房东了，事实上，她也不能再光顾克拉普夫人了。一个人怎么能居高临下地对待一位欠了四十英镑、而且总是为了钱而不断暗示的女士呢？这位爱尔兰女仆的善良和恭敬的举止丝毫没有改变。但塞德利夫人觉得她变得越来越傲慢和忘恩负义，而且，就像一个害怕每一个灌木丛的小偷一样，她在女孩的所有讲话和回答中看到了威胁性的暗示和被捕的迹象。克拉普小姐现在已经是一个年轻女子了，被那个脾气暴躁的老太太宣称是一个令人难以忍受、无礼的小淫妇。塞德利夫人无法想象为什么阿米莉亚会这么喜欢她，或者经常让她呆在自己的房间里，或者经常和她一起出去。贫穷的苦涩毒害了这位曾经开朗善良的女人的生活。她很感激阿米莉亚对她一贯的温柔态度。因她的善意或服务而对她吹毛求疵；责备她对孩子的愚蠢骄傲和对父母的忽视。乔吉的家里不太热闹，因为乔斯叔叔的年金被取消了，小家庭几乎陷入饥荒。

Amelia thinks, and thinks, and racks her brain, to find some means of increasing the small pittance upon which the household is starving. Can she give lessons in anything? paint card-racks? do fine work? She finds that women are working hard, and better than she can, for twopence a day. She buys a couple of begilt Bristol boards at the Fancy Stationer’s and paints her very best upon them— a shepherd with a red waistcoat on one, and a pink face smiling in the midst of a pencil landscape—a shepherdess on the other, crossing a little bridge, with a little dog, nicely shaded. The man of the Fancy Repository and Brompton Emporium of Fine Arts (of whom she bought the screens, vainly hoping that he would repurchase them when ornamented by her hand) can hardly hide the sneer with which he examines these feeble works of art. He looks askance at the lady who waits in the shop, and ties up the cards again in their envelope of whitey-brown paper, and hands them to the poor widow and Miss Clapp, who had never seen such beautiful things in her life, and had been quite confident that the man must give at least two guineas for the screens. They try at other shops in the interior of London, with faint sickening hopes. ‘Don’t want ‘em,’ says one. ‘Be off,’ says another fiercely. Three-and-sixpence has been spent in vain— the screens retire to Miss Clapp’s bedroom, who persists in thinking them lovely.
阿米莉亚想了又想，绞尽脑汁，想找到一些方法来增加这个家庭挨饿的微薄收入。她可以教授任何课程吗？油漆卡架？干得好吗？她发现，为了每天两便士的收入，女性正在努力工作，而且比她做得更好。她在精美文具店买了几块镀金的布里斯托尔画板，并在上面画出了自己最好的作品——其中一幅是一个穿着红色背心的牧羊人，一张粉红色的脸在铅笔风景画中微笑——另一幅是一位牧羊女，穿过一条小路。小桥上有一只小狗，树荫很好。 Fancy Repository 和 Brompton Emporium of Fine Arts 的老板（她买下了他们的屏风，徒劳地希望他能在她亲手装饰的时候重新购买它们）几乎无法掩饰他审视这些软弱的艺术品时的冷笑。他斜视着店里等候的那位女士，把卡片重新装进白棕色纸信封里，递给可怜的寡妇和克拉普小姐，她们一生中从未见过如此美丽的东西，他非常有信心，这个人必须至少为屏幕付出两个基尼。他们带着微弱的、令人作呕的希望，尝试了伦敦内陆地区的其他商店。一位人士表示，“不想要他们”。 “走吧，”另一个人恶狠狠地说。三六便士白白花了——屏幕退到了克拉普小姐的卧室，她坚持认为它们很可爱。

She writes out a little card in her neatest hand, and after long thought and labour of composition, in which the public is informed that ‘A Lady who has some time at her disposal, wishes to undertake the education of some little girls, whom she would instruct in English, in French, in Geography, in History, and in Music—address A. O., at Mr. Brown’s”; and she confides the card to the gentleman of the Fine Art Repository, who consents to allow it to lie upon the counter, where it grows dingy and fly-blown. Amelia passes the door wistfully many a time, in hopes that Mr. Brown will have some news to give her, but he never beckons her in. When she goes to make little purchases, there is no news for her. Poor simple lady, tender and weak—how are you to battle with the struggling violent world?
她用她最整洁的手写下了一张小卡片，经过长时间的思考和写作，公众被告知“一位女士，她有一些时间可以支配，希望接受一些小女孩的教育，她将用英语、法语、地理、历史和音乐进行教学——在布朗先生家中向A. O.致辞。她把这张卡片交给了美术储存库的那位先生，后者同意将它放在柜台上，在那里它变得肮脏并且被苍蝇吹坏了。阿米莉亚多次若有所思地经过门口，希望布朗先生能告诉她一些消息，但他从来没有招呼她进去。当她去买一些小东西时，却没有任何消息给她。可怜的单纯的女士，温柔而柔弱——你将如何与挣扎的暴力世界作斗争？

She grows daily more care-worn and sad, fixing upon her child alarmed eyes, whereof the little boy cannot interpret the expression. She starts up of a night and peeps into his room stealthily, to see that he is sleeping and not stolen away. She sleeps but little now. A constant thought and terror is haunting her. How she weeps and prays in the long silent nights—how she tries to hide from herself the thought which will return to her, that she ought to part with the boy, that she is the only barrier between him and prosperity. She can’t, she can’t. Not now, at least. Some other day. Oh! it is too hard to think of and to bear.
她一天天变得更加忧心忡忡和悲伤，用惊慌的目光注视着她的孩子，小男孩无法理解其中的表情。她半夜起来，偷偷地窥视他的房间，看看他正在睡觉，没有被偷走。她现在睡得很少。一种持续的想法和恐惧困扰着她。她在漫长的寂静夜晚里如何哭泣和祈祷——她如何试图向自己隐藏一个即将回到她身边的想法：她应该与男孩分开，她是他与繁荣之间的唯一障碍。她不能，她不能。至少现在不是。他日。哦！这是很难想象和难以承受的。

A thought comes over her which makes her blush and turn from herself—her parents might keep the annuity—the curate would marry her and give a home to her and the boy. But George’s picture and dearest memory are there to rebuke her. Shame and love say no to the sacrifice. She shrinks from it as from something unholy, and such thoughts never found a resting-place in that pure and gentle bosom.
她的一个念头让她脸红了，转身离开了自己——她的父母可能会保留年金——牧师会娶她，给她和男孩一个家。但乔治的照片和最珍贵的回忆却是在斥责她。羞耻和爱对牺牲说不。她回避它，就像回避某些不圣洁的东西一样，而这样的想法在她纯洁而温柔的怀抱中从未找到安息之地。

The combat, which we describe in a sentence or two, lasted for many weeks in poor Amelia’s heart, during which she had no confidante; indeed, she could never have one, as she would not allow to herself the possibility of yielding, though she was giving way daily before the enemy with whom she had to battle. One truth after another was marshalling itself silently against her and keeping its ground. Poverty and misery for all, want and degradation for her parents, injustice to the boy—one by one the outworks of the little citadel were taken, in which the poor soul passionately guarded her only love and treasure.
我们用一两句话来描述的这场斗争在可怜的阿米莉亚心中持续了好几个星期，在此期间她没有知己。事实上，她永远不可能拥有一个，因为她不允许自己有屈服的可能性，尽管她每天都在必须与之战斗的敌人面前屈服。一个又一个的真相正在默默地聚集起来反对她，并坚守自己的立场。所有人的贫穷和痛苦，她父母的匮乏和堕落，对男孩的不公正——这座小城堡的外围设施一一被占领，可怜的灵魂在其中热情地守护着她唯一的爱和宝藏。

At the beginning of the struggle, she had written off a letter of tender supplication to her brother at Calcutta, imploring him not to withdraw the support which he had granted to their parents and painting in terms of artless pathos their lonely and hapless condition. She did not know the truth of the matter. The payment of Jos’s annuity was still regular, but it was a money-lender in the City who was receiving it: old Sedley had sold it for a sum of money wherewith to prosecute his bootless schemes. Emmy was calculating eagerly the time that would elapse before the letter would arrive and be answered. She had written down the date in her pocket-book of the day when she dispatched it. To her son’s guardian, the good Major at Madras, she had not communicated any of her griefs and perplexities. She had not written to him since she wrote to congratulate him on his approaching marriage. She thought with sickening despondency, that that friend—the only one, the one who had felt such a regard for her—was fallen away.
在斗争开始时，她给加尔各答的哥哥写了一封温柔的恳求信，恳求他不要撤销对父母的支持，并以朴素的悲情描绘了他们孤独而不幸的处境。她并不知道事情的真相。乔斯的年金仍然定期支付，但接收它的是城里的一个放债人：老塞德利把它卖了一笔钱，用来实施他的无赖计划。艾美正在急切地计算着这封信到达并得到答复之前需要经过的时间。她在寄出那天的皮夹里记下了日期。她没有向她儿子的监护人、马德拉斯的好少校表达任何悲伤和困惑。自从她写信祝贺他即将结婚以来，她就没有给他写过信。她沮丧得令人作呕，想到那个朋友——唯一一个、唯一一个对她如此尊重的人——已经离我而去了。

One day, when things had come to a very bad pass—when the creditors were pressing, the mother in hysteric grief, the father in more than usual gloom, the inmates of the family avoiding each other, each secretly oppressed with his private unhappiness and notion of wrong —the father and daughter happened to be left alone together, and Amelia thought to comfort her father by telling him what she had done. She had written to Joseph—an answer must come in three or four months. He was always generous, though careless. He could not refuse, when he knew how straitened were the circumstances of his parents.
有一天，事情发展到了非常糟糕的地步——债权人追债，母亲陷入歇斯底里的悲痛，父亲比平常更加忧郁，家里的人互相躲避，每个人都暗自压抑着自己的不幸和痛苦。错误的观念——父亲和女儿碰巧被单独留在一起，阿米莉亚想通过告诉父亲她所做的事情来安慰他。她已经写信给约瑟夫——三四个月内必有答复。他总是很慷慨，尽管很粗心。当他知道父母的处境有多么困难时，他无法拒绝。

Then the poor old gentleman revealed the whole truth to her—that his son was still paying the annuity, which his own imprudence had flung away. He had not dared to tell it sooner. He thought Amelia’s ghastly and terrified look, when, with a trembling, miserable voice he made the confession, conveyed reproaches to him for his concealment. ‘Ah!’ said he with quivering lips and turning away, ‘you despise your old father now!’
然后，可怜的老先生向她透露了全部真相——他的儿子仍在支付年金，而他自己的轻率已经把年金扔掉了。他不敢早点说出来。当他用颤抖而痛苦的声音坦白时，他想到了阿米莉亚可怕而恐惧的表情，这对他的隐瞒表示了责备。 “啊！”他嘴唇颤抖着转过身去，“你现在瞧不起你的老父亲了！”

‘Oh, papal it is not that,’ Amelia cried out, falling on his neck and kissing him many times. ‘You are always good and kind. You did it for the best. It is not for the money—it is—my God! my God! have mercy upon me, and give me strength to bear this trial”; and she kissed him again wildly and went away.
“哦，教皇，不是这样的，”阿米莉亚大声喊道，伏在他的脖子上，亲吻了他很多次。 ‘你总是善良又善良。你已经做到最好了。这不是为了钱——而是——天啊！我的上帝！怜悯我，赐予我力量来承受这次考验”；她再次疯狂地吻了他，然后就走开了。

Still the father did not know what that explanation meant, and the burst of anguish with which the poor girl left him. It was that she was conquered. The sentence was passed. The child must go from her—to others—to forget her. Her heart and her treasure—her joy, hope, love, worship—her God, almost! She must give him up, and then—and then she would go to George, and they would watch over the child and wait for him until he came to them in Heaven.
父亲仍然不明白这个解释意味着什么，也不明白可怜的女孩离开他时所带来的阵阵痛苦。是她被征服了。判决通过了。孩子必须离开她，走向其他人，才能忘记她。她的心和她的宝藏——她的喜乐、希望、爱、崇拜——她的上帝，几乎！她必须放弃他，然后——然后她会去找乔治，他们会照顾孩子，等待他，直到他来到天堂与他们在一起。

She put on her bonnet, scarcely knowing what she did, and went out to walk in the lanes by which George used to come back from school, and where she was in the habit of going on his return to meet the boy. It was May, a half-holiday. The leaves were all coming out, the weather was brilliant; the boy came running to her flushed with health, singing, his bundle of school-books hanging by a thong. There he was. Both her arms were round him. No, it was impossible. They could not be going to part. ‘What is the matter, Mother?’ said he; ‘you look very pale.’
她戴上帽子，几乎不知道自己在做什么，然后出去走在乔治以前放学回来的小巷里，乔治回来时她也习惯去那里迎接男孩。那是五月，半个假期。树叶都长出来了，天气晴朗；男孩满脸通红地跑向她，唱着歌，他的一捆教科书挂在皮带上。他就在那儿。她的双臂搂住了他。不，这是不可能的。他们不可能分开。 “怎么了，妈妈？”他问道。 “你看起来很苍白。”

‘Nothing, my child,’ she said and stooped down and kissed him.
“没什么，我的孩子，”她说着弯下腰吻了他。

That night Amelia made the boy read the story of Samuel to her, and how Hannah, his mother, having weaned him, brought him to Eli the High Priest to minister before the Lord. And he read the song of gratitude which Hannah sang, and which says, who it is who maketh poor and maketh rich, and bringeth low and exalteth—how the poor shall be raised up out of the dust, and how, in his own might, no man shall be strong. Then he read how Samuel’s mother made him a little coat and brought it to him from year to year when she came up to offer the yearly sacrifice. And then, in her sweet simple way, George’s mother made commentaries to the boy upon this affecting story. How Hannah, though she loved her son so much, yet gave him up because of her vow. And how she must always have thought of him as she sat at home, far away, making the little coat; and Samuel, she was sure, never forgot his mother; and how happy she must have been as the time came (and the years pass away very quick) when she should see her boy and how good and wise he had grown. This little sermon she spoke with a gentle solemn voice, and dry eyes, until she came to the account of their meeting—then the discourse broke off suddenly, the tender heart overflowed, and taking the boy to her breast, she rocked him in her arms and wept silently over him in a sainted agony of tears.
那天晚上，阿米莉亚让男孩给她读撒母耳的故事，以及他的母亲哈拿如何在给他断奶后，把他带到大祭司以利面前，在耶和华面前侍奉。他朗读了哈拿所唱的感恩之歌，其中说，谁使人贫穷，使人富有，使人卑贱，又使人高贵——穷人将如何从尘土中被提拔出来，以及如何靠自己的力量，没有人能够坚强。然后他读到撒母耳的母亲如何为他做了一件小外套，并每年在她上台献祭时送给他。然后，乔治的母亲以她甜蜜简单的方式对这个感人的故事向男孩做出了评论。汉娜虽然非常爱她的儿子，却因为她的誓言而放弃了他。当她坐在远处的家中做那件小外套时，她一定总是想起他；她确信，塞缪尔永远不会忘记他的母亲。当她看到她的儿子，看到他变得多么善良和聪明时，她一定会多么高兴（而且岁月很快就过去了）。她用一种温和而庄重的声音和干涩的眼睛讲了这段简短的布道，直到她谈到他们的相遇——然后谈话突然中断，温柔的心溢满了，她把男孩抱到怀里，摇晃着他。抱住他，在他身上默默哭泣，流着神圣的痛苦。

Her mind being made up, the widow began to take such measures as seemed right to her for advancing the end which she proposed. One day, Miss Osborne, in Russell Square (Amelia had not written the name or number of the house for ten years—her youth, her early story came back to her as she wrote the superscription) one day Miss Osborne got a letter from Amelia which made her blush very much and look towards her father, sitting glooming in his place at the other end of the table.
寡妇下定决心后，开始采取她认为正确的措施来实现她所提议的目标。有一天，奥斯本小姐在罗素广场（阿米莉亚已经有十年没有写过房子的名字或门牌号了——当她写下题字时，她想起了她的青春，她早期的故事）有一天，奥斯本小姐收到了阿米莉亚的一封信这让她涨红了脸，看向坐在桌子另一端的父亲，表情阴郁。

In simple terms, Amelia told her the reasons which had induced her to change her mind respecting her boy. Her father had met with fresh misfortunes which had entirely ruined him. Her own pittance was so small that it would barely enable her to support her parents and would not suffice to give George the advantages which were his due. Great as her sufferings would be at parting with him she would, by God’s help, endure them for the boy’s sake. She knew that those to whom he was going would do all in their power to make him happy. She described his disposition, such as she fancied it—quick and impatient of control or harshness, easily to be moved by love and kindness. In a postscript, she stipulated that she should have a written agreement, that she should see the child as often as she wished—she could not part with him under any other terms.
简而言之，阿米莉亚告诉她导致她改变尊重儿子的想法的原因。她的父亲遭遇了新的不幸，彻底毁了他。她自己的收入微薄，几乎无法养活父母，也不足以让乔治享受到他应得的好处。尽管与他分离时她会遭受巨大的痛苦，但在上帝的帮助下，她会为了男孩而忍受这些痛苦。她知道他要去的那些人会尽一切努力让他快乐。她描述了他的性情，就像她想象的那样——快速、不耐烦控制或严厉，很容易被爱和仁慈所感动。她在附言中规定，必须有一个书面协议，只要她愿意，她就可以经常见到孩子——她不能以任何其他条件与他分开。

‘What? Mrs. Pride has come down, has she?’ old Osborne said, when with a tremulous eager voice Miss Osborne read him the letter. ‘Reg’lar starved out, hey? Ha, ha! I knew she would.’ He tried to keep his dignity and to read his paper as usual—but he could not follow it. He chuckled and swore to himself behind the sheet.
'什么？ “普莱德夫人已经下来了，是吗？”当奥斯本小姐用颤抖的、热切的声音给他读了这封信时，老奥斯本说道。 ‘雷格拉尔饿坏了，嘿？哈哈！我知道她会的。”他试图保持自己的尊严，像往常一样读报纸——但他无法跟上。他咯咯地笑着，在床单后面对自己发誓。

At last he flung it down and, scowling at his daughter, as his wont was, went out of the room into his study adjoining, from whence he presently returned with a key. He flung it to Miss Osborne.
最后，他把它扔了下来，像往常一样，对女儿皱起眉头，走出房间，走进了隔壁的书房，不久他就带着一把钥匙回来了。他把它扔给奥斯本小姐。

‘Get the room over mine—his room that was—ready,’ he said. ‘Yes, sir,’ his daughter replied in a tremble. It was George’s room. It had not been opened for more than ten years. Some of his clothes, papers, handkerchiefs, whips and caps, fishing-rods and sporting gear, were still there. An Army list of 1814, with his name written on the cover; a little dictionary he was wont to use in writing; and the Bible his mother had given him, were on the mantelpiece, with a pair of spurs and a dried inkstand covered with the dust of ten years. Ah! since that ink was wet, what days and people had passed away! The writing-book, still on the table, was blotted with his hand.
“把我楼上的房间——他的房间——准备好，”他说。 “是的，先生。”他的女儿颤抖着回答。这是乔治的房间。已经有十几年没有打开过了。他的一些衣服、文件、手帕、鞭子和帽子、钓鱼竿和运动装备都还在那里。 1814 年的陆军名单，封面上写着他的名字；一本他写作时常用的小词典；壁炉架上还有他母亲给他的《圣经》，上面有一对马刺和一个干涸的墨水台，上面布满了十年的灰尘。啊!自从那墨水湿了以后，过去了多少日子、多少人啊！桌上的写字本已经被他的手弄脏了。

Miss Osborne was much affected when she first entered this room with the servants under her. She sank quite pale on the little bed. ‘This is blessed news, m’am—indeed, m’am,’ the housekeeper said; ‘and the good old times is returning, m’am. The dear little feller, to be sure, m’am; how happy he will be! But some folks in May Fair, m’am, will owe him a grudge, m’am”; and she clicked back the bolt which held the window-sash and let the air into the chamber.
当奥斯本小姐带着仆人第一次走进这个房间时，她受到了很大的影响。她倒在小床上，脸色苍白。 “这是一个幸福的消息，女士——确实如此，女士，”管家说。 “女士，美好的旧时光又回来了。”毫无疑问，亲爱的小家伙，女士；他会多么高兴啊！但是梅菲尔的一些人，女士，会对他怀恨在心，女士”；她把固定窗扇的螺栓拧回去，让空气进入房间。

‘You had better send that woman some money,’ Mr. Osborne said, before he went out. ‘She shan’t want for nothing. Send her a hundred pound.’
“你最好给那个女人寄点钱，”奥斯本先生出去之前说道。 ‘她不会一无所求。寄给她一百英镑。

‘And I’ll go and see her to-morrow?’ Miss Osborne asked.
“我明天就去看她吗？”奥斯本小姐问道。

‘That’s your look out. She don’t come in here, mind. No, by ———, not for all the money in London. But she mustn’t want now. So look out, and get things right.’ With which brief speeches Mr. Osborne took leave of his daughter and went on his accustomed way into the City.
‘这就是你要注意的地方。请注意，她不会来这里。不，靠——，伦敦没有那么多钱。但她现在一定不想。所以要小心，把事情做好。”简短的讲话后，奥斯本先生告别了他的女儿，然后按照他惯常的方式进入了金融城。

‘Here, Papa, is some money,’ Amelia said that night, kissing the old man, her father, and putting a bill for a hundred pounds into his hands. ‘And—and, Mamma, don’t be harsh with Georgy. He—he is not going to stop with us long.’ She could say nothing more, and walked away silently to her room. Let us close it upon her prayers and her sorrow. I think we had best speak little about so much love and grief.
“爸爸，这里有一些钱，”那天晚上，阿米莉亚一边说，一边亲吻了老人，也就是她的父亲，然后把一张一百英镑的钞票放在他手里。 “还有——还有，妈妈，不要对乔吉太严厉。他——他不会在我们这里停留太久。”她什么也说不出来，默默地走回自己的房间。让我们以她的祈祷和悲伤作为结束。我认为我们最好少谈论这么多的爱和悲伤。

Miss Osborne came the next day, according to the promise contained in her note, and saw Amelia. The meeting between them was friendly. A look and a few words from Miss Osborne showed the poor widow that, with regard to this woman at least, there need be no fear lest she should take the first place in her son’s affection. She was cold, sensible, not unkind. The mother had not been so well pleased, perhaps, had the rival been better looking, younger, more affectionate, warmer-hearted. Miss Osborne, on the other hand, thought of old times and memories and could not but be touched with the poor mother’s pitiful situation. She was conquered, and laying down her arms, as it were, she humbly submitted. That day they arranged together the preliminaries of the treaty of capitulation.
按照她纸条上的承诺，奥斯本小姐第二天就来了，并见到了阿米莉亚。他们之间的会面是友好的。奥斯本小姐的一个眼神和几句话向可怜的寡妇表明，至少对于这个女人来说，不必担心她会在儿子的感情中占据第一位。她冷酷、懂事，并不冷酷无情。如果情敌长得更漂亮、更年轻、更慈爱、更热心，母亲也许不会那么高兴。而奥斯本小姐却想起了往日的时光和回忆，不禁为可怜母亲的可怜处境所感动。她被征服了，她放下武器，谦卑地屈服了。那天，他们一起安排了投降条约的预备工作。

George was kept from school the next day, and saw his aunt. Amelia left them alone together and went to her room. She was trying the separation—as that poor gentle Lady Jane Grey felt the edge of the axe that was to come down and sever her slender life. Days were passed in parleys, visits, preparations. The widow broke the matter to Georgy with great caution; she looked to see him very much affected by the intelligence. He was rather elated than otherwise, and the poor woman turned sadly away. He bragged about the news that day to the boys at school; told them how he was going to live with his grandpapa his father’s father, not the one who comes here sometimes; and that he would be very rich, and have a carriage, and a pony, and go to a much finer school, and when he was rich he would buy Leader’s pencil-case and pay the tart-woman. The boy was the image of his father, as his fond mother thought.
乔治第二天没去上学，并见到了他的姨妈。阿米莉亚留下他们单独在一起，回到了自己的房间。她正在尝试分离——可怜的温柔的简·格雷女士感觉到斧头的边缘即将落下，切断她纤细的生命。日子就在谈判、拜访、准备中过去了。寡妇非常谨慎地向乔治讲述了这件事。她看起来很受情报的影响。他非常高兴，可怜的女人悲伤地转过身去。那天他向学校里的男孩们吹嘘了这个消息。告诉他们他将如何与他的祖父、他父亲的父亲一起生活，而不是与有时来这里的人一起生活；他会非常富有，有一辆马车，一匹小马，上一所更好的学校，当他有钱时，他会买利德的铅笔盒，然后付钱给那个妓女。正如他慈爱的母亲所认为的那样，这个男孩就是他父亲的形象。

Indeed I have no heart, on account of our dear Amelia’s sake, to go through the story of George’s last days at home.
事实上，为了我们亲爱的阿米莉亚，我没有心情去讲述乔治在家里最后几天的故事。

At last the day came, the carriage drove up, the little humble packets containing tokens of love and remembrance were ready and disposed in the hall long since—George was in his new suit, for which the tailor had come previously to measure him. He had sprung up with the sun and put on the new clothes, his mother hearing him from the room close by, in which she had been lying, in speechless grief and watching. Days before she had been making preparations for the end, purchasing little stores for the boy’s use, marking his books and linen, talking with him and preparing him for the change— fondly fancying that he needed preparation.
这一天终于到来了，马车开来了，那些装着爱情和纪念的简陋小包裹早已准备好，并早已放在大厅里了——乔治穿着他的新西装，裁缝之前已经来为他量过身了。他在阳光下跳了起来，穿上了新衣服，他的母亲在附近的房间里听到了他的声音，她躺在房间里，悲伤得无言以对。几天前，她一直在为最后的结局做准备，购买小商店供男孩使用，标记他的书和亚麻布，与他交谈并为他做好改变的准备——天真地认为他需要准备。

So that he had change, what cared he? He was longing for it. By a thousand eager declarations as to what he would do, when he went to live with his grandfather, he had shown the poor widow how little the idea of parting had cast him down. ‘He would come and see his mamma often on the pony,’ he said. ‘He would come and fetch her in the carriage; they would drive in the park, and she should have everything she wanted.’ The poor mother was fain to content herself with these selfish demonstrations of attachment, and tried to convince herself how sincerely her son loved her. He must love her. All children were so: a little anxious for novelty, and—no, not selfish, but self-willed. Her child must have his enjoyments and ambition in the world. She herself, by her own selfishness and imprudent love for him had denied him his just rights and pleasures hitherto.
既然他已经改变了，他还关心什么？他很渴望它。当他去和祖父住在一起时，他通过一千次热切地宣布他将做什么，向可怜的寡妇表明，分离的想法并没有让他感到沮丧。 “他经常骑着小马来看望他的妈妈，”他说。 “他会来用马车接她； “他们会在公园里开车，她应该拥有她想要的一切。”这位可怜的母亲很乐意满足于这些自私的依恋表现，并试图说服自己她的儿子是多么真诚地爱她。他一定爱她。所有的孩子都是这样：有点渴望新奇，而且——不，不是自私，而是任性。她的孩子在世上一定有他的享受和野心。她自己，由于她自己的自私和对他轻率的爱，迄今为止剥夺了他应有的权利和快乐。

I know few things more affecting than that timorous debasement and self-humiliation of a woman. How she owns that it is she and not the man who is guilty; how she takes all the faults on her side; how she courts in a manner punishment for the wrongs which she has not committed and persists in shielding the real culprit! It is those who injure women who get the most kindness from them—they are born timid and tyrants and maltreat those who are humblest before them.
我知道没有什么比女人胆怯的贬低和自辱更感人的事情了。她如何承认有罪的是她，而不是那个男人；她如何承担所有的过错；她是如何以一种方式寻求对她没有犯下的错误的惩罚，并坚持包庇真正的罪魁祸首！那些伤害女性的人，从她们身上得到了最多的善意——她们生来胆怯，是暴君，虐待在她们面前最卑微的人。

So poor Amelia had been getting ready in silent misery for her son’s departure, and had passed many and many a long solitary hour in making preparations for the end. George stood by his mother, watching her arrangements without the least concern. Tears had fallen into his boxes; passages had been scored in his favourite books; old toys, relics, treasures had been hoarded away for him, and packed with strange neatness and care—and of all these things the boy took no note. The child goes away smiling as the mother breaks her heart. By heavens it is pitiful, the bootless love of women for children in Vanity Fair.
可怜的阿米莉亚一直在默默地痛苦中为儿子的离开做准备，并度过了许多漫长的孤独时刻，为儿子的结局做准备。乔治站在母亲身边，毫不关心地看着她的安排。眼泪掉进了他的盒子里；他最喜欢的书中的段落已被谱写；旧玩具、遗物、宝藏都为他藏起来了，而且包装得异常整洁和精心——而男孩对所有这些东西都没有留意。孩子微笑着走开，而母亲却伤心欲绝。天哪，《名利场》中女人对孩子的无用的爱真是可怜。

A few days are past, and the great event of Amelia’s life is consummated. No angel has intervened. The child is sacrificed and offered up to fate, and the widow is quite alone.
几天过去了，阿米莉亚一生的大事圆满结束。没有天使介入。孩子被牺牲并奉献给命运，而寡妇则十分孤独。

The boy comes to see her often, to be sure. He rides on a pony with a coachman behind him, to the delight of his old grandfather, Sedley, who walks proudly down the lane by his side. She sees him, but he is not her boy any more. Why, he rides to see the boys at the little school, too, and to show off before them his new wealth and splendour. In two days he has adopted a slightly imperious air and patronizing manner. He was born to command, his mother thinks, as his father was before him.
可以肯定的是，这个男孩经常来看她。他骑着一匹小马，身后有一个车夫，这让他的老祖父塞德利很高兴，他骄傲地走在他身边的小路上。她看到了他，但他不再是她的男孩了。哎呀，他也骑马去看望小学校的男孩们，并在他们面前炫耀他的新财富和辉煌。两天来，他的态度变得有些专横和居高临下。他的母亲认为，他生来就是指挥者，就像他的父亲在他之前一样。

It is fine weather now. Of evenings on the days when he does not come, she takes a long walk into London—yes, as far as Russell Square, and rests on the stone by the railing of the garden opposite Mr. Osborne’s house. It is so pleasant and cool. She can look up and see the drawing-room windows illuminated, and, at about nine o’clock, the chamber in the upper story where Georgy sleeps. She knows—he has told her. She prays there as the light goes out, prays with an humble heart, and walks home shrinking and silent. She is very tired when she comes home. Perhaps she will sleep the better for that long weary walk, and she may dream about Georgy.
现在天气很好。在他不来的日子的晚上，她会步行很长一段路到伦敦——是的，一直走到罗素广场，然后在奥斯本先生家对面花园栏杆旁的石头上休息。真是令人愉快又凉爽。她抬头就能看到客厅的窗户亮着，九点左右，她就能看到楼上乔治睡觉的房间。她知道——他已经告诉过她了。当灯光熄灭时，她在那里祈祷，以谦卑的心祈祷，然后退缩、沉默地走回家。当她回到家时，她很累。也许她会因为长途疲惫的步行而睡得更好，而且她可能会梦见乔治。

One Sunday she happened to be walking in Russell Square, at some distance from Mr. Osborne’s house (she could see it from a distance though) when all the bells of Sabbath were ringing, and George and his aunt came out to go to church; a little sweep asked for charity, and the footman, who carried the books, tried to drive him away; but Georgy stopped and gave him money. May God’s blessing be on the boy! Emmy ran round the square and, coming up to the sweep, gave him her mite too. All the bells of Sabbath were ringing, and she followed them until she came to the Foundling Church, into which she went. There she sat in a place whence she could see the head of the boy under his father’s tombstone. Many hundred fresh children’s voices rose up there and sang hymns to the Father Beneficent, and little George’s soul thrilled with delight at the burst of glorious psalmody. His mother could not see him for awhile, through the mist that dimmed her eyes.
一个星期天，她碰巧在罗素广场散步，离奥斯本先生的家有一段距离（虽然她可以从远处看到它），此时安息日的钟声都敲响了，乔治和他的姨妈出来去教堂；一个小扫帚请求施舍，搬运书的男仆试图把他赶走。但乔治停下来并给了他钱。愿上帝保佑孩子！埃米绕着广场跑了一圈，走到扫帚前，也把她的小费给了他。所有安息日的钟声都敲响了，她跟着它们来到育婴堂，她就进去了。她坐在一个可以看到父亲墓碑下男孩头的地方。那里响起了数百个新鲜的孩子们的声音，唱着赞美圣父的赞美诗，小乔治的灵魂因这美妙的赞美诗的爆发而激动不已。他的母亲有一段时间看不到他，因为雾气使她的眼睛变得昏暗。

Chapter LI
第六章


In Which a Charade Is Acted Which May or May Not Puzzle the Reader
其中所表演的猜谜游戏可能会让读者感到困惑，也可能不会

After Becky’s appearance at my Lord Steyne’s private and select parties, the claims of that estimable woman as regards fashion were settled, and some of the very greatest and tallest doors in the metropolis were speedily opened to her—doors so great and tall that the beloved reader and writer hereof may hope in vain to enter at them. Dear brethren, let us tremble before those august portals. I fancy them guarded by grooms of the chamber with flaming silver forks with which they prong all those who have not the right of the entree. They say the honest newspaper-fellow who sits in the hall and takes down the names of the great ones who are admitted to the feasts dies after a little time. He can’t survive the glare of fashion long. It scorches him up, as the presence of Jupiter in full dress wasted that poor imprudent Semele—a giddy moth of a creature who ruined herself by venturing out of her natural atmosphere. Her myth ought to be taken to heart amongst the Tyburnians, the Belgravians—her story, and perhaps Becky’s too. Ah, ladies!—ask the Reverend Mr. Thurifer if Belgravia is not a sounding brass and Tyburnia a tinkling cymbal. These are vanities. Even these will pass away. And some day or other (but it will be after our time, thank goodness) Hyde Park Gardens will be no better known than the celebrated horticultural outskirts of Babylon, and Belgrave Square will be as desolate as Baker Street, or Tadmor in the wilderness.
贝基出现在斯泰恩勋爵的私人和精选聚会上后，这位可敬的女人对时尚的主张得到了解决，大都市中一些最伟大和最高的大门迅速向她敞开——大门如此巨大和高大，以至于心爱的人本文的读者和作者可能徒劳地希望进入它们。亲爱的弟兄们，让我们在那些庄严的门户前颤抖吧。我想象着他们由房间里的马夫看守着，他们拿着燃烧的银叉子，用叉子刺穿所有无权享用主菜的人。他们说，坐在大厅里记下获准参加宴会的伟人名字的诚实报友不久后就去世了。他无法长期忍受时尚的目光。这让他感到焦灼，因为穿着盛装的朱庇特的出现浪费了那个可怜的轻率的塞墨勒——一只轻率的飞蛾生物，因为冒险脱离了自然大气层而毁了自己。她的神话应该被泰伯尼亚人和贝尔格莱维亚人牢记在心——她的故事，也许贝基的故事也是如此。啊，女士们！——问问牧师瑟里弗先生，贝尔格莱维亚不是响亮的铜管乐器，泰伯恩尼亚不是叮当作响的铙钹吗？这些都是虚荣心。即使这些也会过去。总有一天（但那是在我们的时代之后，谢天谢地）海德公园花园将不会比巴比伦著名的园艺郊区更出名，而贝尔格雷夫广场将像贝克街或荒野中的泰德莫一样荒凉。

Ladies, are you aware that the great Pitt lived in Baker Street? What would not your grandmothers have given to be asked to Lady Hester’s parties in that now decayed mansion? I have dined in it— moi qui vous parle, I peopled the chamber with ghosts of the mighty dead. As we sat soberly drinking claret there with men of to-day, the spirits of the departed came in and took their places round the darksome board. The pilot who weathered the storm tossed off great bumpers of spiritual port; the shade of Dundas did not leave the ghost of a heeltap. Addington sat bowing and smirking in a ghastly manner, and would not be behindhand when the noiseless bottle went round; Scott, from under bushy eyebrows, winked at the apparition of a beeswing; Wilberforce’s eyes went up to the ceiling, so that he did not seem to know how his glass went up full to his mouth and came down empty; up to the ceiling which was above us only yesterday, and which the great of the past days have all looked at. They let the house as a furnished lodging now. Yes, Lady Hester once lived in Baker Street, and lies asleep in the wilderness. Eothen saw her there—not in Baker Street, but in the other solitude.
女士们，你们知道伟大的皮特住在贝克街吗？如果你的祖母被要求参加海丝特夫人在那座现已腐朽的宅邸中举行的聚会，你的祖母会不会捐出什么？我曾在里面吃过饭——我说，我的房间里充满了死者的鬼魂。当我们和今天的人们一起清醒地坐在那儿喝红葡萄酒时，逝者的灵魂进来了，在黑暗的棋盘周围占据了他们的位置。经受住了风暴的飞行员扔掉了精神港口的巨大保险杠；邓达斯的影子并没有留下脚跟轻击的痕迹。阿丁顿坐在那儿，一脸可怕地鞠着躬，傻笑着，当瓶子无声无息地转动时，他也不会落后。斯科特在浓密的眉毛下，对蜂翼的幽灵眨了眨眼。威尔伯福斯的眼睛望向天花板，因此他似乎不知道他的杯子是如何满到嘴边，又空空落下的。一直到昨天我们头顶上的天花板，过去的伟人都曾看过它。他们现在把房子出租作为带家具的住所。是的，海丝特夫人曾经住在贝克街，并在荒野中沉睡。伊森在那里看见了她——不是在贝克街，而是在另一个僻静的地方。

It is all vanity to be sure, but who will not own to liking a little of it? I should like to know what well-constituted mind, merely because it is transitory, dislikes roast beef? That is a vanity, but may every man who reads this have a wholesome portion of it through life, I beg: aye, though my readers were five hundred thousand. Sit down, gentlemen, and fall to, with a good hearty appetite; the fat, the lean, the gravy, the horse-radish as you like it—don’t spare it. Another glass of wine, Jones, my boy—a little bit of the Sunday side. Yes, let us eat our fill of the vain thing and be thankful therefor. And let us make the best of Becky’s aristocratic pleasures likewise—for these too, like all other mortal delights, were but transitory.
诚然，这一切都是虚荣心，但谁不会承认自己喜欢其中一点呢？我想知道什么样的心智健全，仅仅因为它是短暂的，就不喜欢烤牛肉？这是一种虚荣，但愿每个读到这篇文章的人一生都能从中受益匪浅，我恳求：是的，尽管我的读者有五十万。先生们，坐下来，胃口大开；肥肉、瘦肉、肉汁、辣根随你喜欢，不要吝惜。琼斯，我的孩子，再来一杯酒——一点周日的酒。是的，让我们饱尝虚荣之事，并为此心存感激。让我们同样充分利用贝基的贵族快乐——因为这些也像所有其他凡人的快乐一样，只是短暂的。

The upshot of her visit to Lord Steyne was that His Highness the Prince of Peterwaradin took occasion to renew his acquaintance with Colonel Crawley, when they met on the next day at the Club, and to compliment Mrs. Crawley in the Ring of Hyde Park with a profound salute of the hat. She and her husband were invited immediately to one of the Prince’s small parties at Levant House, then occupied by His Highness during the temporary absence from England of its noble proprietor. She sang after dinner to a very little comite. The Marquis of Steyne was present, paternally superintending the progress of his pupil.
她拜访斯泰恩勋爵的结果是，第二天彼得瓦拉丁亲王殿下在俱乐部见面时，彼得瓦拉丁亲王殿下趁机与克劳利上校重温旧情，并在海德公园环路称赞克劳利夫人：深深地敬礼了帽子。她和她的丈夫立即被邀请参加王子在黎凡特宫举行的一个小型聚会，在贵族主人暂时离开英国期间，殿下就住在那里。晚饭后她给一小群人唱歌。斯泰因侯爵也在场，像父亲一样监督着他的学生的进步。

At Levant House Becky met one of the finest gentlemen and greatest ministers that Europe has produced—the Duc de la Jabotiere, then Ambassador from the Most Christian King, and subsequently Minister to that monarch. I declare I swell with pride as these august names are transcribed by my pen, and I think in what brilliant company my dear Becky is moving. She became a constant guest at the French Embassy, where no party was considered to be complete without the presence of the charming Madame Ravdonn Cravley. Messieurs de Truffigny (of the Perigord family) and Champignac, both attaches of the Embassy, were straightway smitten by the charms of the fair Colonel’s wife, and both declared, according to the wont of their nation (for who ever yet met a Frenchman, come out of England, that has not left half a dozen families miserable, and brought away as many hearts in his pocket-book?), both, I say, declared that they were au mieux with the charming Madame Ravdonn.
在黎凡特宫，贝基遇到了欧洲最优秀的绅士和最伟大的大臣之一——雅博蒂埃公爵，当时是最基督教国王的大使，后来又担任该君主的大臣。我宣布，当这些庄严的名字被我的笔记录下来时，我感到无比自豪，我想我亲爱的贝基正在与多么辉煌的伙伴一起移动。她成为法国大使馆的常客，如果没有迷人的拉夫登·克拉夫利夫人的出席，那里的任何聚会都被认为是不完整的。德特鲁菲尼先生（佩里戈尔家族的）和尚皮尼亚克先生都是大使馆的随员，他们立即被美丽的上校妻子的魅力所迷住，并且按照他们国家的习惯（因为谁见过法国人，来自英国，这并没有让六个家庭陷入痛苦，也带走了他钱包里那么多的心？），我说，两人都宣称他们与迷人的拉夫登夫人是好朋友。

But I doubt the correctness of the assertion. Champignac was very fond of ecarte, and made many parties with the Colonel of evenings, while Becky was singing to Lord Steyne in the other room; and as for Truffigny, it is a well-known fact that he dared not go to the Travellers’, where he owed money to the waiters, and if he had not had the Embassy as a dining-place, the worthy young gentleman must have starved. I doubt, I say, that Becky would have selected either of these young men as a person on whom she would bestow her special regard. They ran of her messages, purchased her gloves and flowers, went in debt for opera-boxes for her, and made themselves amiable in a thousand ways. And they talked English with adorable simplicity, and to the constant amusement of Becky and my Lord Steyne, she would mimic one or other to his face, and compliment him on his advance in the English language with a gravity which never failed to tickle the Marquis, her sardonic old patron. Truffigny gave Briggs a shawl by way of winning over Becky’s confidante, and asked her to take charge of a letter which the simple spinster handed over in public to the person to whom it was addressed, and the composition of which amused everybody who read it greatly. Lord Steyne read it, everybody but honest Rawdon, to whom it was not necessary to tell everything that passed in the little house in May Fair.
但我怀疑这个说法的正确性。尚皮尼亚克非常喜欢电子餐，晚上和上校一起举办了很多聚会，而贝基则在另一个房间里给斯泰因勋爵唱歌。至于特鲁菲尼，众所周知的事实是，他不敢去旅行者餐厅，在那里他欠了服务员钱，如果他没有使馆作为就餐场所，这位可敬的年轻绅士一定有饿死了。我说，我怀疑贝基会选择这些年轻人中的任何一个作为她会给予特别尊重的人。他们传达她的信息，为她购买手套和鲜花，为她借了歌剧包厢的债，并以一千种方式表现得和蔼可亲。他们用简单可爱的方式讲英语，贝基和我的斯泰因勋爵一直很开心，她会当着他的面模仿一个或另一个，并恭维他在英语方面的进步，其严肃性总是让侯爵感到高兴。 ，她讽刺的老赞助人。特鲁菲尼送给布里格斯一条披肩，以赢得贝基的红颜知己，并请她保管一封信，这封信是这位朴素的老处女当众交给收信人的，信中的内容让读过这封信的每个人都大笑。 。斯泰因勋爵读了它，除了诚实的罗登之外，每个人都读过它，没有必要向他讲述梅菲尔小屋里发生的一切。

Here, before long, Becky received not only ‘the best’ foreigners (as the phrase is in our noble and admirable society slang), but some of the best English people too. I don’t mean the most virtuous, or indeed the least virtuous, or the cleverest, or the stupidest, or the richest, or the best born, but ‘the best,’—in a word, people about whom there is no question—such as the great Lady Fitz-Willis, that Patron Saint of Almack’s, the great Lady Slowbore, the great Lady Grizzel Macbeth (she was Lady G. Glowry, daughter of Lord Grey of Glowry), and the like. When the Countess of Fitz-Willis (her Ladyship is of the Kingstreet family, see Debrett and Burke) takes up a person, he or she is safe. There is no question about them any more. Not that my Lady Fitz-Willis is any better than anybody else, being, on the contrary, a faded person, fifty-seven years of age, and neither handsome, nor wealthy, nor entertaining; but it is agreed on all sides that she is of the ‘best people.’ Those who go to her are of the best: and from an old grudge probably to Lady Steyne (for whose coronet her ladyship, then the youthful Georgina Frederica, daughter of the Prince of Wales’s favourite, the Earl of Portansherry, had once tried), this great and famous leader of the fashion chose to acknowledge Mrs. Rawdon Crawley; made her a most marked curtsey at the assembly over which she presided; and not only encouraged her son, St. Kitts (his lordship got his place through Lord Steyne’s interest), to frequent Mrs. Crawley’s house, but asked her to her own mansion and spoke to her twice in the most public and condescending manner during dinner. The important fact was known all over London that night. People who had been crying fie about Mrs. Crawley were silent. Wenham, the wit and lawyer, Lord Steyne’s right-hand man, went about everywhere praising her: some who had hesitated, came forward at once and welcomed her; little Tom Toady, who had warned Southdown about visiting such an abandoned woman, now besought to be introduced to her. In a word, she was admitted to be among the ‘best’ people. Ah, my beloved readers and brethren, do not envy poor Becky prematurely—glory like this is said to be fugitive. It is currently reported that even in the very inmost circles, they are no happier than the poor wanderers outside the zone; and Becky, who penetrated into the very centre of fashion and saw the great George IV face to face, has owned since that there too was Vanity.
不久之后，贝基在这里不仅接待了“最好的”外国人（这是我们高贵而令人钦佩的社会俚语中的说法），而且还接待了一些最优秀的英国人。我指的不是最有道德的人，也不是最不道德的人，也不是最聪明的人，也不是最愚蠢的人，也不是最富有的人，也不是出身最好的人，而是“最好的人”——总之，就是那些毫无疑问的人。 ——比如伟大的菲茨威利斯夫人，阿尔马克的守护神，伟大的斯洛博尔夫人，伟大的格里泽尔麦克白夫人（她是格洛里勋爵格雷勋爵的女儿G·格洛里夫人），等等。当菲茨威利斯伯爵夫人（她的夫人是金斯特里特家族的人，参见德布雷特和伯克）抱起一个人时，他或她是安全的。不再有关于他们的问题了。并不是说我的菲茨威利斯夫人比任何人都好，相反，她是一个褪色的人，五十七岁，既不英俊，也不富有，也不有趣；但各方都认为她是“最好的人”。那些去找她的人都是最好的人：可能是对斯泰因夫人的宿怨（为她的夫人戴上她的王冠，然后是年轻的乔治娜·弗雷德里卡，女儿）威尔士亲王最喜欢的波坦谢里伯爵曾尝试过），这位伟大而著名的时尚领袖选择承认罗登·克劳利夫人；在她主持的集会上向她行了最显着的屈膝礼；不仅鼓励她的儿子圣基茨（他的爵位通过斯泰因勋爵的兴趣获得了他的地位）经常光顾克劳利夫人的家，而且邀请她去她自己的宅邸，并在晚餐期间以最公开和居高临下的方式与她交谈了两次。那天晚上，这个重要的事实传遍了整个伦敦。那些一直为克劳利夫人哭泣的人都沉默了。 斯泰因勋爵的左膀右臂、才子兼律师文汉姆到处称赞她：一些犹豫不决的人立刻站出来欢迎她；还有一些人甚至还犹豫不决，纷纷站出来欢迎她。小汤姆·托迪曾警告过绍斯当不要去拜访这样一个被遗弃的女人，现在他请求被介绍给她。总之，她被认为是“最好”的人之一。啊，我亲爱的读者和弟兄们，不要过早地羡慕可怜的贝基——据说这样的荣耀是转瞬即逝的。据目前报道，即使是在最内部的圈子里，他们也并不比区域外的贫困流浪者更快乐。贝基深入时尚的最中心，与伟大的乔治四世面对面，从此承认也有虚荣。

We must be brief in descanting upon this part of her career. As I cannot describe the mysteries of freemasonry, although I have a shrewd idea that it is a humbug, so an uninitiated man cannot take upon himself to portray the great world accurately, and had best keep his opinions to himself, whatever they are.
我们必须简短地回顾一下她职业生涯的这一部分。正如我无法描述共济会的奥秘，尽管我精明地认为它是一个骗局，所以一个外行人无法自己准确地描绘这个伟大的世界，最好保留自己的意见，无论他们是什么。

Becky has often spoken in subsequent years of this season of her life, when she moved among the very greatest circles of the London fashion. Her success excited, elated, and then bored her. At first no occupation was more pleasant than to invent and procure (the latter a work of no small trouble and ingenuity, by the way, in a person of Mrs. Rawdon Crawley’s very narrow means)—to procure, we say, the prettiest new dresses and ornaments; to drive to fine dinner parties, where she was welcomed by great people; and from the fine dinner parties to fine assemblies, whither the same people came with whom she had been dining, whom she had met the night before, and would see on the morrow—the young men faultlessly appointed, handsomely cravatted, with the neatest glossy boots and white gloves—the elders portly, brass-buttoned, noble-looking, polite, and prosy—the young ladies blonde, timid, and in pink—the mothers grand, beautiful, sumptuous, solemn, and in diamonds. They talked in English, not in bad French, as they do in the novels. They talked about each others’ houses, and characters, and families—just as the Joneses do about the Smiths. Becky’s former acquaintances hated and envied her; the poor woman herself was yawning in spirit. ‘I wish I were out of it,’ she said to herself. ‘I would rather be a parson’s wife and teach a Sunday school than this; or a sergeant’s lady and ride in the regimental waggon; or, oh, how much gayer it would be to wear spangles and trousers and dance before a booth at a fair.’
贝基 (Becky) 在随后的几年里经常谈论她生命中的这一季，当时她跻身伦敦时尚界最伟大的圈子。她的成功让她兴奋、兴奋，然后又感到无聊。起初，没有什么职业比发明和采购更令人愉快的了（顺便说一句，对于罗登·克劳利夫人的财力非常有限的人来说，后者是一项需要不小的麻烦和独创性的工作）——我们说，采购最漂亮的新产品服装和装饰品；开车去参加高级晚宴，在那里她受到了很多人的欢迎；从盛大的晚宴到盛大的集会，那些和她一起吃饭的人，她前一天晚上见过的，明天还会见到的人，都来到了这里——这些年轻人衣着完美，衣着漂亮，穿着最整洁的光鲜亮丽的衣服。靴子和白手套——长辈肥胖，扣着黄铜纽扣，相貌高贵，彬彬有礼，平淡无奇——年轻女士金发碧眼，胆怯，穿着粉红色衣服——母亲高贵，美丽，奢华，庄重，戴着钻石。他们用英语交谈，而不是像小说中那样用蹩脚的法语。他们谈论彼此的房子、人物和家庭——就像琼斯一家谈论史密斯一家一样。贝基以前的熟人又恨又嫉妒她。可怜的女人自己也在精神上打哈欠。 “我希望我能摆脱它，”她对自己说。 “我宁愿当牧师的妻子，在主日学校教书，也不愿这样；或者是一位中士的夫人，乘坐团里的马车；或者，哦，穿着亮片和裤子在集市的摊位前跳舞该多快乐啊。

‘You would do it very well,’ said Lord Steyne, laughing. She used to tell the great man her ennuis and perplexities in her artless way— they amused him.
“你会做得很好，”斯泰因勋爵笑着说。她常常用她天真的方式告诉这位伟人她的厌倦和困惑——这让他感到好笑。

‘Rawdon would make a very good Ecuyer—Master of the Ceremonies— what do you call him—the man in the large boots and the uniform, who goes round the ring cracking the whip? He is large, heavy, and of a military figure. I recollect,’ Becky continued pensively, ‘my father took me to see a show at Brookgreen Fair when I was a child, and when we came home, I made myself a pair of stilts and danced in the studio to the wonder of all the pupils.’
“罗登会成为一个非常好的埃库耶——仪式主持人——你怎么称呼他——那个穿着大靴子、穿着制服、在擂台上挥舞着鞭子的人？他身材高大、体重重，具有军人形象。我记得，”贝基若有所思地继续说道，“当我还是个孩子的时候，我的父亲带我去看了布鲁克格林集市的一场演出，当我们回到家时，我给自己做了一双高跷，在演播室里跳舞，让所有人惊叹不已。学生。'

‘I should have liked to see it,’ said Lord Steyne.
“我真想看看，”斯泰因勋爵说。

‘I should like to do it now,’ Becky continued. ‘How Lady Blinkey would open her eyes, and Lady Grizzel Macbeth would stare! Hush! silence! there is Pasta beginning to sing.’ Becky always made a point of being conspicuously polite to the professional ladies and gentlemen who attended at these aristocratic parties—of following them into the corners where they sat in silence, and shaking hands with them, and smiling in the view of all persons. She was an artist herself, as she said very truly; there was a frankness and humility in the manner in which she acknowledged her origin, which provoked, or disarmed, or amused lookers-on, as the case might be. ‘How cool that woman is,’ said one; ‘what airs of independence she assumes, where she ought to sit still and be thankful if anybody speaks to her!’ ‘What an honest and good-natured soul she is!’ said another. ‘What an artful little minx’ said a third. They were all right very likely, but Becky went her own way, and so fascinated the professional personages that they would leave off their sore throats in order to sing at her parties and give her lessons for nothing.
“我现在就想这么做，”贝基继续说道。 ‘布林基夫人睁开眼睛，格里泽尔麦克白夫人会凝视着！嘘！安静！意大利面开始唱歌了。”贝基总是对参加这些贵族聚会的职业女士和绅士表现出明显的礼貌——跟随他们到他们默默坐着的角落里，与他们握手，微笑着在所有人看来。正如她所说，她自己就是一位艺术家。她承认自己出身的方式坦率而谦逊，这激怒了旁观者，或解除了他们的戒备，或逗乐了旁观者，视情况而定。 “那个女人真酷，”其中一个人说道。 “她摆出一副多么独立的架子，如果有人跟她说话，她应该安静地坐着，心存感激！”“她是一个多么诚实、善良的灵魂啊！”另一个人说。 “真是个狡猾的小疯子”第三个说。他们很可能都很好，但贝基我行我素，让专业人士着迷，他们会放下喉咙痛，在她的聚会上唱歌，免费给她上课。

Yes, she gave parties in the little house in Curzon Street. Many scores of carriages, with blazing lamps, blocked up the street, to the disgust of No. 100, who could not rest for the thunder of the knocking, and of 102, who could not sleep for envy. The gigantic footmen who accompanied the vehicles were too big to be contained in Becky’s little hall, and were billeted off in the neighbouring public-houses, whence, when they were wanted, call-boys summoned them from their beer. Scores of the great dandies of London squeezed and trod on each other on the little stairs, laughing to find themselves there; and many spotless and severe ladies of ton were seated in the little drawing-room, listening to the professional singers, who were singing according to their wont, and as if they wished to blow the windows down. And the day after, there appeared among the fashionable reunions in the Morning Post a paragraph to the following effect:
是的，她在寇松街的小房子里举办了聚会。几十辆马车，灯火通明，把街道堵得水泄不通，让100号厌烦得睡不着觉，102号则羡慕得睡不着觉。伴随车辆而来的巨大男仆太大了，无法容纳在贝基的小大厅里，他们被安置在附近的酒馆里，当他们被需要时，应召童从啤酒里召唤他们。几十个伦敦的花花公子在小楼梯上互相挤压、踩踏，发现自己在那里大笑。小客厅里坐着许多一尘不染、严肃的贵妇人，听着专业歌手的歌声，他们按照自己的习惯唱歌，仿佛恨不得把窗户吹下来。第二天，《晨报》上的时尚聚会中出现了这样一段话：

‘Yesterday, Colonel and Mrs. Crawley entertained a select party at dinner at their house in May Fair. Their Excellencies the Prince and Princess of Peterwaradin, H. E. Papoosh Pasha, the Turkish Ambassador (attended by Kibob Bey, dragoman of the mission), the Marquess of Steyne, Earl of Southdown, Sir Pitt and Lady Jane Crawley, Mr. Wagg, &c. After dinner Mrs. Crawley had an assembly which was attended by the Duchess (Dowager) of Stilton, Duc de la Gruyere, Marchioness of Cheshire, Marchese Alessandro Strachino, Comte de Brie, Baron Schapzuger, Chevalier Tosti, Countess of Slingstone, and Lady F. Macadam, Major-General and Lady G. Macbeth, and (2) Miss Macbeths; Viscount Paddington, Sir Horace Fogey, Hon. Sands Bedwin, Bobachy Bahawder,’ and an &c., which the reader may fill at his pleasure through a dozen close lines of small type.
“昨天，克劳利上校和夫人在梅费尔的家中举办了一场精心挑选的晚宴。彼得瓦拉丁王子和公主、帕普什帕夏阁下、土耳其大使（使团翻译员基博布·贝陪同）、斯泰恩侯爵、绍斯当伯爵、皮特爵士和简·克劳利夫人、瓦格先生等。晚餐后，克劳利夫人举行了一次集会，出席者包括斯蒂尔顿公爵夫人（太后）、格鲁耶尔公爵、柴郡侯爵夫人、亚历山德罗·斯特拉奇诺侯爵、布里伯爵、沙普祖格男爵、托斯蒂骑士、斯林斯通伯爵夫人和 F 夫人。 . Macadam、少将和 G. Macbeth 夫人，以及 (2) Macbeths 小姐；帕丁顿子爵，霍勒斯·福吉爵士，阁下。 Sands Bedwin、Bobachy Bahawder 等，读者可以根据自己的喜好通过十几行小字体来填充。

And in her commerce with the great our dear friend showed the same frankness which distinguished her transactions with the lowly in station. On one occasion, when out at a very fine house, Rebecca was (perhaps rather ostentatiously) holding a conversation in the French language with a celebrated tenor singer of that nation, while the Lady Grizzel Macbeth looked over her shoulder scowling at the pair.
我们亲爱的朋友在与伟人的交往中也表现出了与地位低下的人交往时所表现出的同样的坦率。有一次，在一栋非常漂亮的房子里，丽贝卡（也许是相当招摇的）用法语与该国一位著名的男高音歌手交谈，而格里泽尔·麦克白夫人则越过肩膀，皱着眉头看着这两个人。

‘How very well you speak French,’ Lady Grizzel said, who herself spoke the tongue in an Edinburgh accent most remarkable to hear.
“你的法语说得真好。”格里泽尔夫人说，她自己说的法语是最引人注目的爱丁堡口音。

‘I ought to know it,’ Becky modestly said, casting down her eyes. ‘I taught it in a school, and my mother was a Frenchwoman.’
“我应该知道，”贝基垂下眼睛，谦虚地说。 “我在一所学校教它，我的母亲是一位法国女性。”

Lady Grizzel was won by her humility and was mollified towards the little woman. She deplored the fatal levelling tendencies of the age, which admitted persons of all classes into the society of their superiors, but her ladyship owned that this one at least was well behaved and never forgot her place in life. She was a very good woman: good to the poor; stupid, blameless, unsuspicious. It is not her ladyship’s fault that she fancies herself better than you and me. The skirts of her ancestors’ garments have been kissed for centuries; it is a thousand years, they say, since the tartans of the head of the family were embraced by the defunct Duncan’s lords and councillors, when the great ancestor of the House became King of Scotland.
格里泽尔夫人被她的谦逊所吸引，对这个小女人的态度也变得温和起来。她对这个时代致命的平等倾向表示遗憾，这种倾向允许各个阶层的人进入上级的社会，但她的女士承认，这个人至少表现得很好，而且从未忘记自己在生活中的地位。她是一个非常好的女人：对穷人很好；愚蠢、无可指责、毫无疑心。她认为自己比你我更好，这并不是她夫人的错。她祖先的衣服裙摆已经被亲吻了几个世纪；他们说，自从家族的伟大祖先成为苏格兰国王，已故的邓肯领主和议员们拥抱家族首领的格子呢以来，已经有一千年了。

Lady Steyne, after the music scene, succumbed before Becky, and perhaps was not disinclined to her. The younger ladies of the house of Gaunt were also compelled into submission. Once or twice they set people at her, but they failed. The brilliant Lady Stunnington tried a passage of arms with her, but was routed with great slaughter by the intrepid little Becky. When attacked sometimes, Becky had a knack of adopting a demure ingenue air, under which she was most dangerous. She said the wickedest things with the most simple unaffected air when in this mood, and would take care artlessly to apologize for her blunders, so that all the world should know that she had made them.
斯泰恩夫人在音乐舞台结束后，在贝基面前屈服了，也许并没有拒绝她。冈特家族的年轻女士们也被迫屈服。有一两次他们派人攻击她，但都失败了。才华横溢的斯图宁顿夫人试图与她交手，但被勇敢的小贝基以惨烈的屠杀击溃。有时，当受到攻击时，贝基有一种诀窍，那就是表现出端庄天真的样子，在这种样子下她是最危险的。在这种心情下，她会用最朴实的神态说出最恶毒的话，并且会小心翼翼地为自己的错误道歉，让全世界都知道是她犯下的。

Mr. Wagg, the celebrated wit, and a led captain and trencher-man of my Lord Steyne, was caused by the ladies to charge her; and the worthy fellow, leering at his patronesses and giving them a wink, as much as to say, ‘Now look out for sport,’ one evening began an assault upon Becky, who was unsuspiciously eating her dinner. The little woman, attacked on a sudden, but never without arms, lighted up in an instant, parried and riposted with a home-thrust, which made Wagg’s face tingle with shame; then she returned to her soup with the most perfect calm and a quiet smile on her face. Wagg’s great patron, who gave him dinners and lent him a little money sometimes, and whose election, newspaper, and other jobs Wagg did, gave the luckless fellow such a savage glance with the eyes as almost made him sink under the table and burst into tears. He looked piteously at my lord, who never spoke to him during dinner, and at the ladies, who disowned him. At last Becky herself took compassion upon him and tried to engage him in talk. He was not asked to dinner again for six weeks; and Fiche, my lord’s confidential man, to whom Wagg naturally paid a good deal of court, was instructed to tell him that if he ever dared to say a rude thing to Mrs. Crawley again, or make her the butt of his stupid jokes, Milor would put every one of his notes of hand into his lawyer’s hands and sell him up without mercy. Wagg wept before Fiche and implored his dear friend to intercede for him. He wrote a poem in favour of Mrs. R. C., which appeared in the very next number of the Harum-scarum Magazine, which he conducted. He implored her goodwill at parties where he met her. He cringed and coaxed Rawdon at the club. He was allowed to come back to Gaunt House after a while. Becky was always good to him, always amused, never angry.
瓦格先生是一位著名的才子，也是斯泰因勋爵的一名领导船长和猎手，在女士们的怂恿下向她提出指控。这位可敬的家伙，斜视着他的女赞助人，对她们眨了眨眼，仿佛在说：“现在注意运动吧。”一天晚上，贝基开始袭击贝基，贝基毫无怀疑地正在吃晚饭。那个小女人，突然遭到攻击，但绝非没有手臂，瞬间就亮了起来，用猛力招架和还击，这让瓦格羞得脸发麻；然后她回到汤边，脸上带着最完美的平静和安静的微笑。瓦格的大恩人，请他吃饭，有时借给他一点钱，而且瓦格还负责选举、报纸和其他工作，他用凶狠的眼神看了这个不幸的家伙一眼，差点让他沉到桌子底下，然后冲进屋里。眼泪。他可怜巴巴地看着我的主人，他在晚餐时从不和他说话，也看着那些不承认他的女士们。最后，贝基本人对他产生了同情，并试图与他交谈。六个星期以来，他没有再被邀请共进晚餐。费什是我主人的心腹，瓦格自然对他颇有微词，他奉命告诉他，如果他再敢对克劳利夫人说粗鲁的话，或者让她成为他愚蠢笑话的笑柄，米洛尔会把他手上的每一笔票据都交到他的律师手里，然后毫不留情地把他卖掉。瓦格在费什面前哭泣，恳求他亲爱的朋友为他求情。他写了一首支持 R.C. 夫人的诗，这首诗出现在他指挥的下一期《Harum-scarum》杂志上。他在聚会上遇见她时恳求她表示善意。他在俱乐部里畏缩并哄骗罗登。一段时间后，他被允许回到冈特屋。 贝基总是对他很好，总是逗他开心，从不生气。

His lordship’s vizier and chief confidential servant (with a seat in parliament and at the dinner table), Mr. Wenham, was much more prudent in his behaviour and opinions than Mr. Wagg. However much he might be disposed to hate all parvenus (Mr. Wenham himself was a staunch old True Blue Tory, and his father a small coal-merchant in the north of England), this aide-de-camp of the Marquis never showed any sort of hostility to the new favourite, but pursued her with stealthy kindnesses and a sly and deferential politeness which somehow made Becky more uneasy than other people’s overt hostilities.
勋爵大人的维齐尔和首席机要仆人（在议会和餐桌上都有席位）温纳姆先生的行为和观点比瓦格先生谨慎得多。不管他多么恨所有的暴发户（文汉姆先生本人是一位坚定的老保守党，他的父亲是英格兰北部的一个小煤商），这位侯爵的副官从来没有表现出任何暴发户的样子。对这位新宠有某种敌意，但却以一种隐秘的善意和一种狡猾而恭敬的礼貌来追求她，这在某种程度上让贝基比其他人公开的敌意更感到不安。

How the Crawleys got the money which was spent upon the entertainments with which they treated the polite world was a mystery which gave rise to some conversation at the time, and probably added zest to these little festivities. Some persons averred that Sir Pitt Crawley gave his brother a handsome allowance; if he did, Becky’s power over the Baronet must have been extraordinary indeed, and his character greatly changed in his advanced age. Other parties hinted that it was Becky’s habit to levy contributions on all her husband’s friends: going to this one in tears with an account that there was an execution in the house; falling on her knees to that one and declaring that the whole family must go to gaol or commit suicide unless such and such a bill could be paid. Lord Southdown, it was said, had been induced to give many hundreds through these pathetic representations. Young Feltham, of the —th Dragoons (and son of the firm of Tiler and Feltham, hatters and army accoutrement makers), and whom the Crawleys introduced into fashionable life, was also cited as one of Becky’s victims in the pecuniary way. People declared that she got money from various simply disposed persons, under pretence of getting them confidential appointments under Government. Who knows what stories were or were not told of our dear and innocent friend? Certain it is that if she had had all the money which she was said to have begged or borrowed or stolen, she might have capitalized and been honest for life, whereas,—but this is advancing matters.
克劳利一家如何获得用于招待上流社会的钱是一个谜，这引起了当时的一些谈话，并可能为这些小庆祝活动增添了热情。有些人断言皮特·克劳利爵士给了他兄弟一笔可观的零用钱。如果他这样做了，贝基对准男爵的权力一定非同寻常，而且他的性格在年老时也发生了巨大的变化。其他人暗示贝基习惯向她丈夫的所有朋友征收捐款：带着泪水去找这位朋友，说家里有一次处决；她向那个人下跪，并宣称除非能支付某某账单，否则全家人必须进监狱或自杀。据说，绍斯当勋爵在这些可悲的陈述中被诱导捐出了数百美元。年轻的费尔特姆是第一个龙骑兵（蒂勒和费尔特姆公司的儿子，蒂勒和费尔特姆公司是帽匠和军装制造商），克劳利夫妇将他带入了时尚生活，他也被认为是贝基的金钱受害者之一。人们声称她从各种性格单纯的人那里得到了钱，借口是让他们接受政府的秘密任命。谁知道我们亲爱的无辜朋友有哪些故事被讲述或没有被讲述？可以肯定的是，如果她拥有据说是她乞讨、借来或偷来的所有钱，她可能会资本化并终生诚实，然而——但这正在推进事情。

The truth is, that by economy and good management—by a sparing use of ready money and by paying scarcely anybody—people can manage, for a time at least, to make a great show with very little means: and it is our belief that Becky’s much-talked-of parties, which were not, after all was said, very numerous, cost this lady very little more than the wax candles which lighted the walls. Stillbrook and Queen’s Crawley supplied her with game and fruit in abundance. Lord Steyne’s cellars were at her disposal, and that excellent nobleman’s famous cooks presided over her little kitchen, or sent by my lord’s order the rarest delicacies from their own. I protest it is quite shameful in the world to abuse a simple creature, as people of her time abuse Becky, and I warn the public against believing one-tenth of the stories against her. If every person is to be banished from society who runs into debt and cannot pay—if we are to be peering into everybody’s private life, speculating upon their income, and cutting them if we don’t approve of their expenditure—why, what a howling wilderness and intolerable dwelling Vanity Fair would be! Every man’s hand would be against his neighbour in this case, my dear sir, and the benefits of civilization would be done away with. We should be quarrelling, abusing, avoiding one another. Our houses would become caverns, and we should go in rags because we cared for nobody. Rents would go down. Parties wouldn’t be given any more. All the tradesmen of the town would be bankrupt. Wine, wax-lights, comestibles, rouge, crinoline-petticoats, diamonds, wigs, LouisQuatorze gimcracks, and old china, park hacks, and splendid highstepping carriage horses—all the delights of life, I say,—would go to the deuce, if people did but act upon their silly principles and avoid those whom they dislike and abuse. Whereas, by a little charity and mutual forbearance, things are made to go on pleasantly enough: we may abuse a man as much as we like, and call him the greatest rascal unhanged—but do we wish to hang him therefore? No. We shake hands when we meet. If his cook is good we forgive him and go and dine with him, and we expect he will do the same by us. Thus trade flourishes—civilization advances; peace is kept; new dresses are wanted for new assemblies every week; and the last year’s vintage of Lafitte will remunerate the honest proprietor who reared it.
事实是，通过节约和良好的管理——通过节约使用现成资金和几乎不支付任何人——人们可以设法，至少在一段时间内，以很少的手段做出一场精彩的表演：我们相信，贝基举办的那些备受瞩目的聚会，毕竟据说数量并不多，但这位女士的花费只比照亮墙壁的蜡烛贵不了多少。斯蒂尔布鲁克和皇后克劳利为她提供了大量的野味和水果。斯泰因勋爵的地窖任由她使用，这位杰出贵族的著名厨师主持着她的小厨房，或者按照勋爵的命令从他们自己的厨房里送来最稀有的美味佳肴。我抗议说，虐待一个简单的生物在世界上是相当可耻的，就像她那个时代的人们虐待贝基一样，我警告公众不要相信十分之一的针对她的故事。如果每个陷入债务且无法偿还债务的人都将被逐出社会——如果我们要窥视每个人的私人生活，推测他们的收入，如果我们不批准他们的支出就削减他们——为什么，这是多么糟糕的事情？嚎叫的荒野和难以忍受的住宅名利场将是！亲爱的先生，在这种情况下，每个人都会与自己的邻居作对，文明的好处就会消失。我们应该争吵、辱骂、互相回避。我们的房子会变成洞穴，我们应该衣衫褴褛，因为我们不关心任何人。租金将会下降。不会再举办派对了。镇上所有的商人都会破产。 酒、蜡灯、食品、胭脂、裙衬裙、钻石、假发、LouisQuatorze的小玩意儿、旧瓷器、公园小木屋、华丽的高迈马车——我说，生活中的所有乐趣——都会化为乌有，如果人们只是按照他们愚蠢的原则行事并避开那些他们不喜欢和虐待的人。然而，只要一点点仁慈和相互宽容，事情就能足够愉快地进行：我们可以随心所欲地虐待一个人，并称他为未绞死的最大流氓——但我们是否因此希望绞死他呢？不，我们见面时握手。如果他的厨艺很好，我们就会原谅他并去和他一起吃饭，我们希望他也会对我们做同样的事情。因此贸易繁荣——文明进步；和平得以维持；每周新集会都需要新衣服；去年年份的拉菲特葡萄酒将为种植它的诚实业主带来回报。

At the time whereof we are writing, though the Great George was on the throne and ladies wore gigots and large combs like tortoiseshell shovels in their hair, instead of the simple sleeves and lovely wreaths which are actually in fashion, the manners of the very polite world were not, I take it, essentially different from those of the present day: and their amusements pretty similar. To us, from the outside, gazing over the policeman’s shoulders at the bewildering beauties as they pass into Court or ball, they may seem beings of unearthly splendour and in the enjoyment of an exquisite happiness by us unattainable. It is to console some of these dissatisfied beings that we are narrating our dear Becky’s struggles, and triumphs, and disappointments, of all of which, indeed, as is the case with all persons of merit, she had her share.
在我们写这篇文章的时候，尽管大乔治在位，女士们都戴着羊腿，头发上戴着像龟甲铲一样的大梳子，而不是实际上流行的简单的袖子和可爱的花环，而是非常有礼貌的举止我认为，当时的世界与当今世界并没有本质上的不同：而且他们的娱乐方式也非常相似。对我们来说，从外面看，越过警察的肩膀，看着那些进入法庭或舞会的令人眼花缭乱的美女，她们似乎拥有超凡脱俗的辉煌，享受着我们无法企及的精致幸福。为了安慰这些不满的人，我们讲述了我们亲爱的贝基的挣扎、胜利和失望，事实上，正如所有有功德的人一样，她也有自己的一份经历。

At this time the amiable amusement of acting charades had come among us from France, and was considerably in vogue in this country, enabling the many ladies amongst us who had beauty to display their charms, and the fewer number who had cleverness to exhibit their wit. My Lord Steyne was incited by Becky, who perhaps believed herself endowed with both the above qualifications, to give an entertainment at Gaunt House, which should include some of these little dramas—and we must take leave to introduce the reader to this brilliant reunion, and, with a melancholy welcome too, for it will be among the very last of the fashionable entertainments to which it will be our fortune to conduct him.
这时，可爱的猜谜游戏从法国传入我们中间，在国内相当盛行，使我们当中许多有美丽的女士可以展示她们的魅力，也可以让少数聪明的人展示她们的智慧。 。斯泰因勋爵受到贝基的怂恿，她也许相信自己具备上述两种资格，在冈特庄园举办一场娱乐活动，其中应该包括一些这样的小戏剧——我们必须告辞，向读者介绍这场辉煌的重聚，并且，也带着忧郁的欢迎，因为这将是我们有幸带领他参加的最后的时尚娱乐活动之一。

A portion of that splendid room, the picture gallery of Gaunt House, was arranged as the charade theatre. It had been so used when George III was king; and a picture of the Marquis of Gaunt is still extant, with his hair in powder and a pink ribbon, in a Roman shape, as it was called, enacting the part of Cato in Mr. Addison’s tragedy of that name, performed before their Royal Highnesses the Prince of Wales, the Bishop of Osnaburgh, and Prince William Henry, then children like the actor. One or two of the old properties were drawn out of the garrets, where they had lain ever since, and furbished up anew for the present festivities.
那个华丽的房间的一部分，即冈特故居的画廊，被布置成猜谜剧院。乔治三世当国王时就曾如此使用过。冈特侯爵的一张照片仍然存在，他的头发涂着粉，系着粉红丝带，呈罗马形状，正如它所称的那样，在艾迪生先生的同名悲剧中扮演卡托的角色，在他们的皇室面前上演。威尔士亲王殿下、奥斯纳堡主教和威廉·亨利王子，当时的孩子们都喜欢这位演员。一两处旧房产被从阁楼中抽出来，并为当前的庆祝活动重新装修。

Young Bedwin Sands, then an elegant dandy and Eastern traveller, was manager of the revels. An Eastern traveller was somebody in those days, and the adventurous Bedwin, who had published his quarto and passed some months under the tents in the desert, was a personage of no small importance. In his volume there were several pictures of Sands in various oriental costumes; and he travelled about with a black attendant of most unprepossessing appearance, just like another Brian de Bois Guilbert. Bedwin, his costumes, and black man, were hailed at Gaunt House as very valuable acquisitions.
年轻的贝德温·桑兹（Bedwin Sands）当时是一位优雅的花花公子和东方旅行者，是狂欢活动的经理。东方旅行者在当时是个大人物，而富有冒险精神的贝德温出版了他的四开本，并在沙漠的帐篷里度过了几个月，是一位不小的人物。在他的书中有几张桑兹穿着各种东方服装的照片；他与一位相貌极其不起眼的黑人随从一起出行，就像另一个布赖恩·德·布瓦·吉尔伯特一样。贝德温、他的服装和黑人在冈特庄园被誉为非常有价值的收购品。

He led off the first charade. A Turkish officer with an immense plume of feathers (the Janizaries were supposed to be still in existence, and the tarboosh had not as yet displaced the ancient and majestic head-dress of the true believers) was seen couched on a divan, and making believe to puff at a narghile, in which, however, for the sake of the ladies, only a fragrant pastille was allowed to smoke. The Turkish dignitary yawns and expresses signs of weariness and idleness. He claps his hands and Mesrour the Nubian appears, with bare arms, bangles, yataghans, and every Eastern ornament— gaunt, tall, and hideous. He makes a salaam before my lord the Aga.
他开始了第一个猜谜游戏。一名戴着巨大羽毛的土耳其军官（禁卫军应该仍然存在，而塔布什还没有取代真正信徒古老而雄伟的头饰）躺在一张长沙发上，使人相信吸食水烟，然而，为了女士们的缘故，只允许吸芳香软糖。土耳其政要打着哈欠，表现出疲倦和无所事事的迹象。他拍了拍手，努比亚人梅斯鲁尔出现了，他赤裸着双臂，戴着手镯、手镯和各种东方装饰品——憔悴、高大、丑陋。他向我的阿迦大人行礼。

A thrill of terror and delight runs through the assembly. The ladies whisper to one another. The black slave was given to Bedwin Sands by an Egyptian pasha in exchange for three dozen of Maraschino. He has sewn up ever so many odalisques in sacks and tilted them into the Nile.
集会中充满了恐惧和喜悦的气氛。女士们互相窃窃私语。一位埃及帕夏将这个黑人奴隶交给了贝德温·桑兹，以换取三打马拉斯基诺酒。他把如此多的宫女缝在麻袋里，然后把它们扔进尼罗河。

‘Bid the slave-merchant enter,’ says the Turkish voluptuary with a wave of his hand. Mesrour conducts the slave-merchant into my lord’s presence; he brings a veiled female with him. He removes the veil. A thrill of applause bursts through the house. It is Mrs. Winkworth (she was a Miss Absolom) with the beautiful eyes and hair. She is in a gorgeous oriental costume; the black braided locks are twined with innumerable jewels; her dress is covered over with gold piastres. The odious Mahometan expresses himself charmed by her beauty. She falls down on her knees and entreats him to restore her to the mountains where she was born, and where her Circassian lover is still deploring the absence of his Zuleikah. No entreaties will move the obdurate Hassan. He laughs at the notion of the Circassian bridegroom. Zuleikah covers her face with her hands and drops down in an attitude of the most beautiful despair. There seems to be no hope for her, when—when the Kislar Aga appears.
“请奴隶商人进来。”土耳其酒色之徒挥了挥手说道。梅斯鲁尔将奴隶商人带到了我的主人面前。他带来了一位蒙着面纱的女性。他摘下面纱。屋子里爆发出热烈的掌声。这是温克沃斯夫人（她是阿布索罗姆小姐），有着美丽的眼睛和头发。她身着华丽的东方服装；黑色的辫子上缠绕着无数的珠宝；她的裙子上覆盖着金色的皮亚斯特。可恶的伊斯兰教徒表示自己被她的美丽迷住了。她跪下，恳求他将她送回她出生的山上，而她的切尔克斯情人仍在为他的祖莱卡的失踪而悲伤。任何恳求都无法打动顽固的哈桑。他嘲笑切尔克斯新郎的想法。祖莱卡用手捂住脸，以一种最美丽的绝望姿态倒下。当——当基斯拉·阿加出现时，她似乎已经没有希望了。

The Kislar Aga brings a letter from the Sultan. Hassan receives and places on his head the dread firman. A ghastly terror seizes him, while on the Negro’s face (it is Mesrour again in another costume) appears a ghastly joy. ‘Mercy! mercy!’ cries the Pasha: while the Kislar Aga, grinning horribly, pulls out—a bow-string.
基斯拉尔·阿加带来了苏丹的一封信。哈桑接过那把可怕的菲尔曼，并将其戴在头上。一种可怕的恐惧抓住了他，而黑人的脸上（又是穿着另一套服装的梅斯鲁尔）则呈现出一种可怕的喜悦。 '怜悯！饶命吧！”帕夏喊道，而基斯拉尔·阿加则咧着嘴笑得可怕，拉出了一根弓弦。

The curtain draws just as he is going to use that awful weapon. Hassan from within bawls out, ‘First two syllables’—and Mrs. Rawdon Crawley, who is going to act in the charade, comes forward and compliments Mrs. Winkworth on the admirable taste and beauty of her costume.
就在他即将使用那把可怕的武器时，帷幕拉开了。哈桑在里面大喊“前两个音节”——即将扮演这个谜语的罗登·克劳利夫人走上前来，称赞温克沃斯夫人服装的品味和美丽令人钦佩。

The second part of the charade takes place. It is still an Eastern scene. Hassan, in another dress, is in an attitude by Zuleikah, who is perfectly reconciled to him. The Kislar Aga has become a peaceful black slave. It is sunrise on the desert, and the Turks turn their heads eastwards and bow to the sand. As there are no dromedaries at hand, the band facetiously plays ‘The Camels are coming.’ An enormous Egyptian head figures in the scene. It is a musical one— and, to the surprise of the oriental travellers, sings a comic song, composed by Mr. Wagg. The Eastern voyagers go off dancing, like Papageno and the Moorish King in The Magic Flute. ‘Last two syllables,’ roars the head.
猜谜游戏的第二部分发生了。依然是东方的景象。穿着另一件衣服的哈桑，在祖莱卡的态度下，与他完美和解。基斯拉尔阿加已经成为一名和平的黑人奴隶。这是沙漠上的日出，土耳其人把头转向东方，向沙漠鞠躬。由于手边没有单峰骆驼，乐队开玩笑地演奏了“骆驼来了”。场景中出现了一个巨大的埃及头像。这是一首音乐剧，而且令东方旅行者惊讶的是，它唱的是一首由瓦格先生创作的喜剧歌曲。东方航海者翩翩起舞，就像《魔笛》中的帕帕吉诺和摩尔国王。 “最后两个音节，”头咆哮道。

The last act opens. It is a Grecian tent this time. A tall and stalwart man reposes on a couch there. Above him hang his helmet and shield. There is no need for them now. Ilium is down. Iphigenia is slain. Cassandra is a prisoner in his outer halls. The king of men (it is Colonel Crawley, who, indeed, has no notion about the sack of Ilium or the conquest of Cassandra), the anax andron is asleep in his chamber at Argos. A lamp casts the broad shadow of the sleeping warrior flickering on the wall—the sword and shield of Troy glitter in its light. The band plays the awful music of Don Juan, before the statue enters.
最后一幕拉开帷幕。这次是希腊式的帐篷。一个高大魁梧的男人躺在那里的沙发上。他的上方挂着头盔和盾牌。现在不需要他们了。髂骨下降了。伊菲革涅亚被杀。卡桑德拉是他外厅的囚犯。人类之王（克劳利上校，事实上，他对伊利姆的劫掠或卡桑德拉的征服一无所知），阿纳克斯·安德伦正在阿尔戈斯的房间里沉睡。一盏灯将熟睡的战士的宽大影子投射在墙上，特洛伊的剑和盾牌在灯光下闪闪发光。在雕像进入之前，乐队演奏了唐璜的可怕音乐。

Aegisthus steals in pale and on tiptoe. What is that ghastly face looking out balefully after him from behind the arras? He raises his dagger to strike the sleeper, who turns in his bed, and opens his broad chest as if for the blow. He cannot strike the noble slumbering chieftain. Clytemnestra glides swiftly into the room like an apparition—her arms are bare and white—her tawny hair floats down her shoulders—her face is deadly pale—and her eyes are lighted up with a smile so ghastly that people quake as they look at her.
埃吉斯托斯面色苍白，踮起脚尖偷窃。那张从阿拉斯后面恶毒地看着他的可怕的脸是什么？他举起匕首刺向熟睡的人，后者在床上翻身，张开宽阔的胸膛，仿佛要接受这一击。他无法攻击沉睡的高贵酋长。克吕泰涅斯特拉像幽灵一样迅速滑进房间——她的手臂光秃秃的，雪白的——黄褐色的头发从肩上飘落——她的脸色死一般苍白——她的眼睛里闪着一丝可怕的微笑，让人看着她都会颤抖。 。

A tremor ran through the room. ‘Good God!’ somebody said, ‘it’s Mrs. Rawdon Crawley.’
房间里一阵颤抖。 “天哪！”有人说道，“这是罗登·克劳利夫人。”

Scornfully she snatches the dagger out of Aegisthus’s hand and advances to the bed. You see it shining over her head in the glimmer of the lamp, and—and the lamp goes out, with a groan, and all is dark.
她轻蔑地从埃吉斯托斯手中夺过匕首，走到床边。你看到它在灯光的微光中照在她的头顶上，然后——灯发出一声呻吟，熄灭了，一切都陷入了黑暗。

The darkness and the scene frightened people. Rebecca performed her part so well, and with such ghastly truth, that the spectators were all dumb, until, with a burst, all the lamps of the hall blazed out again, when everybody began to shout applause. ‘Brava! brava!’ old Steyne’s strident voice was heard roaring over all the rest. ‘By—, she’d do it too,’ he said between his teeth. The performers were called by the whole house, which sounded with cries of ‘Manager! Clytemnestra!’ Agamemnon could not be got to show in his classical tunic, but stood in the background with Aegisthus and others of the performers of the little play. Mr. Bedwin Sands led on Zuleikah and Clytemnestra. A great personage insisted on being presented to the charming Clytemnestra. ‘Heigh ha? Run him through the body. Marry somebody else, hay?’ was the apposite remark made by His Royal Highness.
黑暗和场景让人们感到害怕。丽贝卡把她的角色演得如此出色，而且说出了如此可怕的真相，观众们都哑口无言，直到一声爆裂声，大厅里所有的灯再次熄灭，每个人都开始大声鼓掌。 ‘太棒了！太棒了！”老斯泰因刺耳的声音压倒了其他人。 “天啊——她也会这么做的，”他咬牙切齿地说。全屋的人都在喊着表演者，“经理！”的叫喊声响起。 《克吕泰涅斯特拉！》阿伽门农无法穿着他的古典外衣出场，而是与埃吉斯托斯和其他小剧演员一起站在背景中。贝德温·桑兹 (Bedwin Sands) 先生带领祖莱卡 (Zuleikah) 和克吕泰涅斯特拉 (Clytemnestra)。一位伟大的人物坚持要被介绍给迷人的克吕泰涅斯特拉。 ‘嗨哈？让他穿过身体。嫁给别人吧，嘿？”殿下说得恰如其分。

‘Mrs. Rawdon Crawley was quite killing in the part,’ said Lord Steyne. Becky laughed, gay and saucy looking, and swept the prettiest little curtsey ever seen.
'太太。罗登·克劳利（Rawdon Crawley）在这个角色中表现得非常出色，”斯泰因勋爵说。贝基笑了，看上去既快乐又俏皮，还行了一个有史以来最漂亮的小屈膝礼。

Servants brought in salvers covered with numerous cool dainties, and the performers disappeared to get ready for the second charadetableau.
仆人们送来了装满了许多酷炫美食的托盘，表演者们就消失了，为第二场猜谜游戏做好准备。

The three syllables of this charade were to be depicted in pantomime, and the performance took place in the following wise:
这个哑剧的三个音节将用哑剧来描绘，表演是按以下方式进行的：

First syllable. Colonel Rawdon Crawley, C.B., with a slouched hat and a staff, a great-coat, and a lantern borrowed from the stables, passed across the stage bawling out, as if warning the inhabitants of the hour. In the lower window are seen two bagmen playing apparently at the game of cribbage, over which they yawn much. To them enters one looking like Boots (the Honourable G. Ringwood), which character the young gentleman performed to perfection, and divests them of their lower coverings; and presently Chambermaid (the Right Honourable Lord Southdown) with two candlesticks, and a warming-pan. She ascends to the upper apartment and warms the bed. She uses the warming-pan as a weapon wherewith she wards off the attention of the bagmen. She exits. They put on their night-caps and pull down the blinds. Boots comes out and closes the shutters of the ground-floor chamber. You hear him bolting and chaining the door within. All the lights go out. The music plays Dormez, dormez, chers Amours. A voice from behind the curtain says, ‘First syllable.’
第一个音节。罗登·克劳利上校，C.B.，戴着一顶宽边帽子，拿着一根手杖，穿着一件大衣，提着从马厩借来的灯笼，大喊大叫地走过舞台，仿佛在警告人们这个时刻。在下面的窗户里可以看到两个推销员显然在玩纸牌游戏，他们打着哈欠。一个看起来像布茨（G·林伍德阁下）的人出现在他们面前，这位年轻的绅士将这个角色演绎得非常完美，然后脱掉了他们的下衣。不久，女仆（绍斯唐勋爵阁下）带着两个烛台和一个暖锅。她爬上楼上的公寓，暖好床。她用加热盘作为武器来避开推销员的注意。她退出了。他们戴上睡帽，拉下百叶窗。布茨出来关上底层房间的百叶窗。你听到他用螺栓锁住里面的门。所有的灯都熄灭了。音乐演奏着“Dormez，Dormez，chers Amours”。窗帘后面传来一个声音：“第一个音节。”

Second syllable. The lamps are lighted up all of a sudden. The music plays the old air from John of Paris, Ah quel plaisir d’etre en voyage. It is the same scene. Between the first and second floors of the house represented, you behold a sign on which the Steyne arms are painted. All the bells are ringing all over the house. In the lower apartment you see a man with a long slip of paper presenting it to another, who shakes his fists, threatens and vows that it is monstrous. ‘Ostler, bring round my gig,’ cries another at the door. He chucks Chambermaid (the Right Honourable Lord Southdown) under the chin; she seems to deplore his absence, as Calypso did that of that other eminent traveller Ulysses. Boots (the Honourable G. Ringwood) passes with a wooden box, containing silver flagons, and cries ‘Pots’ with such exquisite humour and naturalness that the whole house rings with applause, and a bouquet is thrown to him. Crack, crack, crack, go the whips. Landlord, chambermaid, waiter rush to the door, but just as some distinguished guest is arriving, the curtains close, and the invisible theatrical manager cries out ‘Second syllable.’
第二个音节。灯突然亮了。音乐播放着巴黎约翰的古老曲调，《Ah quel plaisir d’etre en voyage》。这是同一个场景。在所代表的房子的一楼和二楼之间，你会看到一个标牌，上面画着斯泰因的手臂。房子里所有的门铃都响了。在楼下的公寓里，你会看到一个男人拿着一张长纸条，把它递给另一个人，另一个人摇着拳头，威胁并发誓说这是可怕的。 “奥斯特勒，把我的演出带来吧，”另一个人在门口喊道。他用拳头猛击女服务员（绍斯唐勋爵阁下）的下巴；她似乎对他的缺席感到遗憾，就像卡吕普索对另一位著名旅行家尤利西斯的缺席一样。布茨（尊敬的G·林伍德）拿着一个装着银酒壶的木箱经过，他以极其幽默和自然的方式喊着“罐子”，全场响起了掌声，人们向他扔了一束花。噼啪，噼啪，噼啪，鞭子走吧。房东、女服务员、服务员争先恐后地跑到门口，但正当有贵客到来时，窗帘合上，隐形的剧院经理喊出了“第二个音节”。

‘I think it must be ‘Hotel,’’ says Captain Grigg of the Life Guards; there is a general laugh at the Captain’s cleverness. He is not very far from the mark.
“我想这一定是‘旅馆’，”救生员格里格上尉说；人们普遍嘲笑船长的聪明。他离目标并不遥远。

While the third syllable is in preparation, the band begins a nautical medley—‘All in the Downs,’ ‘Cease Rude Boreas,’ ‘Rule Britannia,’ ‘In the Bay of Biscay O!’—some maritime event is about to take place. A ben is heard ringing as the curtain draws aside. ‘Now, gents, for the shore!’ a voice exclaims. People take leave of each other. They point anxiously as if towards the clouds, which are represented by a dark curtain, and they nod their heads in fear. Lady Squeams (the Right Honourable Lord Southdown), her lap-dog, her bags, reticules, and husband sit down, and cling hold of some ropes. It is evidently a ship.
当第三个音节正在准备时，乐队开始了航海混合曲——“All in the Downs”、“Cease Rude Boreas”、“Rule Britannia”、“In the Bay of Biscay O!”——一些海上事件即将发生地方。当窗帘拉开时，可以听到一声铃声。 “现在，先生们，上岸吧！”一个声音喊道。人们互相告别。他们焦急地指着黑幕代表的云彩，恐惧地点点头。斯奎姆斯夫人（南唐勋爵阁下）、她的哈巴狗、她的包、手提包和丈夫坐下来，紧紧抓住一些绳子。这显然是一艘船。

The Captain (Colonel Crawley, C.B.), with a cocked hat and a telescope, comes in, holding his hat on his head, and looks out; his coat tails fly about as if in the wind. When he leaves go of his hat to use his telescope, his hat flies off, with immense applause. It is blowing fresh. The music rises and whistles louder and louder; the mariners go across the stage staggering, as if the ship was in severe motion. The Steward (the Honourable G. Ringwood) passes reeling by, holding six basins. He puts one rapidly by Lord Squeams—Lady Squeams, giving a pinch to her dog, which begins to howl piteously, puts her pocket-handkerchief to her face, and rushes away as for the cabin. The music rises up to the wildest pitch of stormy excitement, and the third syllable is concluded.
船长（克劳利上校，C.B.）戴着三角帽，拿着望远镜，走进来，把帽子戴在头上，向外张望。他的外套下摆像在风中一样飞扬。当他脱下帽子去使用望远镜时，他的帽子飞走了，引起了热烈的掌声。正吹着新鲜的风。音乐响起，口哨声越来越响；水手们摇摇晃晃地走过舞台，仿佛船在剧烈运动。管家（G.林伍德阁下）手里拿着六个盆，摇摇晃晃地走过。他迅速把一条放在斯奎姆斯勋爵——斯奎姆斯夫人身边，捏了捏她的狗，它开始可怜地嚎叫，把她的口袋手帕放在脸上，然后冲向小屋。音乐上升到暴风雨般兴奋的最狂野的音调，第三个音节结束。

There was a little ballet, ‘Le Rossignol,’ in which Montessu and Noblet used to be famous in those days, and which Mr. Wagg transferred to the English stage as an opera, putting his verse, of which he was a skilful writer, to the pretty airs of the ballet. It was dressed in old French costume, and little Lord Southdown now appeared admirably attired in the disguise of an old woman hobbling about the stage with a faultless crooked stick.
有一部小型芭蕾舞剧《Le Rossignol》，当时蒙特苏和诺布莱特曾在其中出名，瓦格先生将其作为歌剧搬上英国舞台，他的诗句是他熟练的写作者，欣赏芭蕾舞的优美旋律。它穿着古老的法国服装，小绍斯唐勋爵现在打扮得令人钦佩，装扮成一位老妇人，拿着一根完美的弯曲棍子在舞台上一瘸一拐地走来走去。

Trills of melody were heard behind the scenes, and gurgling from a sweet pasteboard cottage covered with roses and trellis work. ‘Philomele, Philomele,’ cries the old woman, and Philomele comes out.
幕后传来旋律的颤音，还有从覆盖着玫瑰和格子的甜蜜纸板小屋中发出的潺潺声。 “菲洛梅勒，菲洛梅勒，”老妇人喊道，菲洛梅勒走了出来。

More applause—it is Mrs. Rawdon Crawley in powder and patches, the most ravissante little Marquise in the world.
更多掌声——这是身着粉饼和补丁的罗登·克劳利夫人，她是世界上最迷人的小侯爵夫人。

She comes in laughing, humming, and frisks about the stage with all the innocence of theatrical youth—she makes a curtsey. Mamma says ‘Why, child, you are always laughing and singing,’ and away she goes, with—
她笑着进来，哼着歌，在舞台上跳来跳去，带着戏剧青年的天真无邪——她行了屈膝礼。妈妈说：“为什么，孩子，你总是又笑又唱，”然后她就走了，带着——

THE ROSE UPON MY BALCONY
我阳台上的玫瑰

The rose upon my balcony the morning air perfuming Was leafless all the winter time and pining for the spring; You ask me why her breath is sweet and why her cheek is blooming, It is because the sun is out and birds begin to sing.
我阳台上的玫瑰，早晨的空气里弥漫着香气，整个冬天都没有叶子，渴望春天；你问我为什么她的呼吸是甜的，为什么她的脸颊在绽放，那是因为太阳出来了，鸟儿开始歌唱。

The nightingale, whose melody is through the greenwood ringing, Was silent when the boughs were bare and winds were blowing keen: And if, Mamma, you ask of me the reason of his singing, It is because the sun is out and all the leaves are green.
夜莺的歌声在绿林中回荡，当树枝光秃秃、风刮得厉害时，夜莺却寂静无声：妈妈，如果你问我他歌唱的原因，那是因为太阳出来了，所有的树叶都出来了。是绿色的。

Thus each performs his part, Mamma, the birds have found their voices, The blowing rose a flush, Mamma, her bonny cheek to dye; And there’s sunshine in my heart, Mamma, which wakens and rejoices, And so I sing and blush, Mamma, and that’s the reason why.
就这样，每个人都各司其职，妈妈，鸟儿已经找到了它们的声音，吹过的玫瑰泛起红晕，妈妈，她美丽的脸颊染红了；妈妈，我心里有阳光，它唤醒我，让我欢喜，所以我唱歌，脸红，妈妈，这就是原因。

During the intervals of the stanzas of this ditty, the good-natured personage addressed as Mamma by the singer, and whose large whiskers appeared under her cap, seemed very anxious to exhibit her maternal affection by embracing the innocent creature who performed the daughter’s part. Every caress was received with loud acclamations of laughter by the sympathizing audience. At its conclusion (while the music was performing a symphony as if ever so many birds were warbling) the whole house was unanimous for an encore: and applause and bouquets without end were showered upon the Nightingale of the evening. Lord Steyne’s voice of applause was loudest of all. Becky, the nightingale, took the flowers which he threw to her and pressed them to her heart with the air of a consummate comedian. Lord Steyne was frantic with delight. His guests’ enthusiasm harmonized with his own. Where was the beautiful black-eyed Houri whose appearance in the first charade had caused such delight? She was twice as handsome as Becky, but the brilliancy of the latter had quite eclipsed her. All voices were for her. Stephens, Caradori, Ronzi de Begnis, people compared her to one or the other, and agreed with good reason, very likely, that had she been an actress none on the stage could have surpassed her. She had reached her culmination: her voice rose trilling and bright over the storm of applause, and soared as high and joyful as her triumph. There was a ball after the dramatic entertainments, and everybody pressed round Becky as the great point of attraction of the evening. The Royal Personage declared with an oath that she was perfection, and engaged her again and again in conversation. Little Becky’s soul swelled with pride and delight at these honours; she saw fortune, fame, fashion before her. Lord Steyne was her slave, followed her everywhere, and scarcely spoke to any one in the room beside, and paid her the most marked compliments and attention. She still appeared in her Marquise costume and danced a minuet with Monsieur de Truffigny, Monsieur Le Duc de la Jabotiere’s attache; and the Duke, who had all the traditions of the ancient court, pronounced that Madame Crawley was worthy to have been a pupil of Vestris, or to have figured at Versailles. Only a feeling of dignity, the gout, and the strongest sense of duty and personal sacrifice prevented his Excellency from dancing with her himself, and he declared in public that a lady who could talk and dance like Mrs. Rawdon was fit to be ambassadress at any court in Europe. He was only consoled when he heard that she was half a Frenchwoman by birth. ‘None but a compatriot,’ his Excellency declared, ‘could have performed that majestic dance in such a way.’
在这首小曲的诗节间隙，这位被歌手称呼为“妈妈”的善良人物，帽子下露出了大胡子，似乎非常渴望通过拥抱扮演女儿角色的天真生物来表达她的母爱。每一次爱抚都会引起同情的观众的阵阵笑声。结束时（音乐演奏着一首交响乐，仿佛有那么多鸟儿在鸣叫），全场一致要求再来一场：掌声和花束源源不断地洒向当晚的夜莺。斯泰因勋爵的掌声是最响亮的。夜莺贝基接过他扔给她的鲜花，像一个完美的喜剧演员一样把它们贴在她的心上。斯泰因勋爵欣喜若狂。他的客人的热情与他自己的热情一致。在第一场猜谜游戏中，美丽的黑眼睛胡里的出现引起了如此大的喜悦，她在哪里？她比贝基漂亮一倍，但贝基的才华却让她黯然失色。所有的声音都是为了她。斯蒂芬斯、卡拉多里、罗齐·德·贝格尼斯，人们将她与其中一个进行比较，并有充分的理由同意，很可能，如果她是一名演员，舞台上没有人能超越她。她已经达到了巅峰：她的声音在暴风雨般的掌声中变得颤抖而明亮，并像她的胜利一样高涨和喜悦。戏剧性的娱乐活动结束后举行了一场舞会，每个人都围着贝基成为当晚最吸引人的焦点。皇家人物发誓宣称她是完美的，并一次又一次地与她交谈。小贝基的灵魂因这些荣誉而充满自豪和喜悦。她看到了财富、名誉、时尚就在她面前。 斯泰因勋爵是她的奴隶，到处跟着她，几乎不跟旁边房间里的任何人说话，并对她给予最明显的赞美和关注。她仍然穿着她的侯爵夫人服装，与勒杜克·德·拉·雅博蒂埃​​先生的随员德·特鲁菲尼先生一起跳小步舞曲。公爵继承了古代宫廷的所有传统，宣称克劳利夫人有资格成为维斯特里斯的学生，或者在凡尔赛宫崭露头角。只是出于尊严感、痛风、最强烈的责任感和个人牺牲，阁下才没有亲自与她跳舞，他当众宣称，像罗登夫人那样能说会跳的女士适合担任该国的大使。欧洲任何法院。当他听说她有一半法国血统时，他才感到安慰。 “除了同胞，”他宣称，“没有人能够以这样的方式表演这种雄伟的舞蹈。”’

Then she figured in a waltz with Monsieur de Klingenspohr, the Prince of Peterwaradin’s cousin and attache. The delighted Prince, having less retenue than his French diplomatic colleague, insisted upon taking a turn with the charming creature, and twirled round the ball-room with her, scattering the diamonds out of his boot-tassels and hussar jacket until his Highness was fairly out of breath. Papoosh Pasha himself would have liked to dance with her if that amusement had been the custom of his country. The company made a circle round her and applauded as wildly as if she had been a Noblet or a Taglioni. Everybody was in ecstacy; and Becky too, you may be sure. She passed by Lady Stunnington with a look of scorn. She patronized Lady Gaunt and her astonished and mortified sister-inlaw—she ecrased all rival charmers. As for poor Mrs. Winkworth, and her long hair and great eyes, which had made such an effect at the commencement of the evening—where was she now? Nowhere in the race. She might tear her long hair and cry her great eyes out, but there was not a person to heed or to deplore the discomfiture.
然后她与彼得瓦拉丁亲王的表弟兼随员德克林根斯波尔先生跳了一支华尔兹。高兴的王子比他的法国外交同事没有随从，坚持要和这个迷人的女人一起转一圈，和她一起在舞厅里转了一圈，把钻石从他的靴子流苏和骠骑兵夹克上散落下来，直到殿下完全康复。上气不接下气。如果这种娱乐是他的国家的习俗的话，帕普什帕夏本人也想和她跳舞。大家围着她转了一圈，热烈鼓掌，就像她是一位贵族或塔廖尼人一样。每个人都欣喜若狂。你可以肯定，贝基也是如此。她一脸轻蔑地从斯图宁顿夫人身边走过。她光顾着冈特夫人和她惊讶又羞愧的嫂子——她打败了所有竞争对手。至于可怜的温克沃斯太太，她的长发和大眼睛，在晚上开始时产生了如此大的影响——她现在在哪里？比赛中无处可去。她可能会撕扯她的长发，哭出她的大眼睛，但没有人注意到或哀叹她的狼狈。

The greatest triumph of all was at supper time. She was placed at the grand exclusive table with his Royal Highness the exalted personage before mentioned, and the rest of the great guests. She was served on gold plate. She might have had pearls melted into her champagne if she liked—another Cleopatra—and the potentate of Peterwaradin would have given half the brilliants off his jacket for a kind glance from those dazzling eyes. Jabotiere wrote home about her to his government. The ladies at the other tables, who supped off mere silver and marked Lord Steyne’s constant attention to her, vowed it was a monstrous infatuation, a gross insult to ladies of rank. If sarcasm could have killed, Lady Stunnington would have slain her on the spot.
最伟大的胜利是在晚饭时间。她与前面提到的尊贵人物殿下以及其他贵宾一起被安排在豪华的专属餐桌旁。她被盛在金盘子上。如果她愿意的话，她可能会把珍珠融化到她的香槟里——另一个克利奥帕特拉——而彼得瓦拉丁的君主会放弃他夹克上一半的宝石，换取那双令人眼花缭乱的眼睛善意的一瞥。雅博蒂埃写信向他的政府讲述了她的情况。其他桌子上的女士们只吃银子，并注意到斯泰因勋爵对她的持续关注，发誓这是一种可怕的迷恋，是对有地位的女士的严重侮辱。如果讽刺可以杀人，斯图宁顿夫人一定会当场杀死她。

Rawdon Crawley was scared at these triumphs. They seemed to separate his wife farther than ever from him somehow. He thought with a feeling very like pain how immeasurably she was his superior.
罗登·克劳利对这些胜利感到害怕。不知怎的，他们似乎把他的妻子和他分开得比以往任何时候都更远。他带着一种非常痛苦的感觉想到她是他的上级，这是多么不可估量。

When the hour of departure came, a crowd of young men followed her to her carriage, for which the people without bawled, the cry being caught up by the link-men who were stationed outside the tall gates of Gaunt House, congratulating each person who issued from the gate and hoping his Lordship had enjoyed this noble party.
当出发的时刻到来时，一群年轻人跟着她上了她的马车，人们为此大喊大叫，而驻扎在冈特宫高大大门外的联络人也接住了他们的哭声，他们向每一个出发的人表示祝贺。从大门出来，希望阁下享受了这次高贵的聚会。

Mrs. Rawdon Crawley’s carriage, coming up to the gate after due shouting, rattled into the illuminated court-yard and drove up to the covered way. Rawdon put his wife into the carriage, which drove off. Mr. Wenham had proposed to him to walk home, and offered the Colonel the refreshment of a cigar.
罗登·克劳利夫人的马车在适当的喊叫后来到了大门前，嘎嘎地驶进灯火通明的庭院，驶向有遮盖的道路。罗登把他的妻子送上马车，马车开走了。温纳姆先生建议他步行回家，并给上校提供了一支雪茄来提神。

They lighted their cigars by the lamp of one of the many link-boys outside, and Rawdon walked on with his friend Wenham. Two persons separated from the crowd and followed the two gentlemen; and when they had walked down Gaunt Square a few score of paces, one of the men came up and, touching Rawdon on the shoulder, said, ‘Beg your pardon, Colonel, I vish to speak to you most particular.’ This gentleman’s acquaintance gave a loud whistle as the latter spoke, at which signal a cab came clattering up from those stationed at the gate of Gaunt House—and the aide-de-camp ran round and placed himself in front of Colonel Crawley.
他们用外面众多接线员之一的灯点燃了雪茄，罗登和他的朋友韦纳姆一起继续前行。有两个人从人群中分开，跟在两位先生身后。当他们沿着冈特广场走了几十步时，其中一个人走过来，拍拍罗登的肩膀，说道：“请原谅，上校，我想特别跟你谈谈。”这位先生的熟人当后者说话时，他发出一声响亮的口哨，听到这个信号，一辆出租车从驻扎在冈特宅邸门口的人那里叮叮当当地驶来——副官转身跑到克劳利上校面前。

That gallant officer at once knew what had befallen him. He was in the hands of the bailiffs. He started back, falling against the man who had first touched him.
那位英勇的军官立刻就知道自己发生了什么事。他在法警的手中。他向后退了一步，倒在了第一个碰触他的人身上。

‘We’re three on us—it’s no use bolting,’ the man behind said.
“我们三个人——逃跑是没有用的，”后面的那个人说。

‘It’s you, Moss, is it?’ said the Colonel, who appeared to know his interlocutor. ‘How much is it?’
“是你吗，莫斯，是吗？”上校说道，他似乎认识他的对话者。 '多少钱？'

‘Only a small thing,’ whispered Mr. Moss, of Cursitor Street, Chancery Lane, and assistant officer to the Sheriff of Middlesex— ‘One hundred and sixty-six, six and eight-pence, at the suit of Mr. Nathan.’
“只是一件小事，”莫斯先生低声说道，他是米德尔塞克斯郡警长的助理，住在大法官巷的柯西托街——“内森先生提出诉讼，一百六十六便士六又八便士。” '

‘Lend me a hundred, Wenham, for God’s sake,’ poor Rawdon said—‘I’ve got seventy at home.’
“看在上帝的份上，借给我一百张吧，韦纳姆，”可怜的罗登说道，“我家里有七十张。”

‘I’ve not got ten pounds in the world,’ said poor Mr. Wenham—‘Good night, my dear fellow.’
“我在这个世界上连十英镑都没有，”可怜的文汉姆先生说道，“晚安，我亲爱的朋友。”

‘Good night,’ said Rawdon ruefully. And Wenham walked away—and Rawdon Crawley finished his cigar as the cab drove under Temple Bar.
“晚安，”罗登悲伤地说。温纳姆走开了——当出租车驶过圣殿酒吧时，罗登·克劳利抽完了他的雪茄。

Chapter LII
第五章


In Which Lord Steyne Shows Himself in a Most Amiable Light
斯泰因勋爵以最和蔼可亲的方式展现自己

When Lord Steyne was benevolently disposed, he did nothing by halves, and his kindness towards the Crawley family did the greatest honour to his benevolent discrimination. His lordship extended his good-will to little Rawdon: he pointed out to the boy’s parents the necessity of sending him to a public school, that he was of an age now when emulation, the first principles of the Latin language, pugilistic exercises, and the society of his fellow-boys would be of the greatest benefit to the boy. His father objected that he was not rich enough to send the child to a good public school; his mother that Briggs was a capital mistress for him, and had brought him on (as indeed was the fact) famously in English, the Latin rudiments, and in general learning: but all these objections disappeared before the generous perseverance of the Marquis of Steyne. His lordship was one of the governors of that famous old collegiate institution called the Whitefriars. It had been a Cistercian Convent in old days, when the Smithfield, which is contiguous to it, was a tournament ground. Obstinate heretics used to be brought thither convenient for burning hard by. Henry VIII, the Defender of the Faith, seized upon the monastery and its possessions and hanged and tortured some of the monks who could not accommodate themselves to the pace of his reform. Finally, a great merchant bought the house and land adjoining, in which, and with the help of other wealthy endowments of land and money, he established a famous foundation hospital for old men and children. An extern school grew round the old almost monastic foundation, which subsists still with its middle-age costume and usages—and all Cistercians pray that it may long flourish.
当斯泰因勋爵心怀仁慈时，他不会半途而废，他对克劳利家族的仁慈为他仁慈的辨别力带来了最大的荣耀。勋爵阁下向小罗登表达了他的善意：他向男孩的父母指出送他去公立学校的必要性，他现在正值竞争、拉丁语基本原理、拳击练习和学习的年龄。与他的男孩们交往对男孩来说是最大的好处。他的父亲反对说他没有足够的钱送孩子去一所好的公立学校；他的母亲认为布里格斯是他的大情妇，并让他在英语、拉丁语基础知识和一般知识方面取得了著名的成绩（事实确实如此）：但在斯泰因侯爵的慷慨坚持之前，所有这些反对意见都消失了。勋爵阁下是著名的古老大学机构“怀特修士会”的院长之一。过去这里曾是一座西多会修道院，当时毗邻它的史密斯菲尔德是比赛场地。过去，顽固的异教徒被带到那里，很容易被烧死。信仰的捍卫者亨利八世占领了修道院及其财产，绞死并折磨了一些无法适应他的改革步伐的僧侣。最后，一位大商人买下了毗邻的房屋和土地，并在其他富有的土地和金钱的帮助下，为老人和儿童建立了一家著名的基金会医院。一所外部学校围绕古老的几乎是修道院的基础发展起来，它仍然保留着中世纪的服装和用法——所有的西多会教徒都祈祷它能够长期繁荣。

Of this famous house, some of the greatest noblemen, prelates, and dignitaries in England are governors: and as the boys are very comfortably lodged, fed, and educated, and subsequently inducted to good scholarships at the University and livings in the Church, many little gentlemen are devoted to the ecclesiastical profession from their tenderest years, and there is considerable emulation to procure nominations for the foundation. It was originally intended for the sons of poor and deserving clerics and laics, but many of the noble governors of the Institution, with an enlarged and rather capricious benevolence, selected all sorts of objects for their bounty. To get an education for nothing, and a future livelihood and profession assured, was so excellent a scheme that some of the richest people did not disdain it; and not only great men’s relations, but great men themselves, sent their sons to profit by the chance—Right Rev. prelates sent their own kinsmen or the sons of their clergy, while, on the other hand, some great noblemen did not disdain to patronize the children of their confidential servants—so that a lad entering this establishment had every variety of youthful society wherewith to mingle.
在这个著名的家族中，英格兰一些最伟大的贵族、高级教士和政要担任州长：由于孩子们的住宿、饮食和教育都非常舒适，随后在大学获得了良好的奖学金并在教堂生活，因此许多孩子小绅士们从最年轻的时候起就致力于教会职业，为了获得基金会的提名，有相当多的竞争者。它最初是为贫穷而值得的神职人员和俗人的儿子设立的，但该机构的许多贵族总督怀着一种扩大且相当反复无常的仁慈，选择了各种各样的物品作为他们的赏金。免费接受教育，并保证未来的生计和职业，这是一个非常好的计划，以至于一些最富有的人并没有鄙视它。不仅是伟人的亲戚，就连伟人自己也派他们的儿子乘机获利——右派牧师主教派他们自己的亲属或神职人员的儿子来谋取利益，而另一方面，一些伟大的贵族并不蔑视庇护他们心腹仆人的孩子——这样，进入这个机构的小伙子就可以与各种各样的年轻人交往。

Rawdon Crawley, though the only book which he studied was the Racing Calendar, and though his chief recollections of polite learning were connected with the floggings which he received at Eton in his early youth, had that decent and honest reverence for classical learning which all English gentlemen feel, and was glad to think that his son was to have a provision for life, perhaps, and a certain opportunity of becoming a scholar. And although his boy was his chief solace and companion, and endeared to him by a thousand small ties, about which he did not care to speak to his wife, who had all along shown the utmost indifference to their son, yet Rawdon agreed at once to part with him and to give up his own greatest comfort and benefit for the sake of the welfare of the little lad. He did not know how fond he was of the child until it became necessary to let him go away. When he was gone, he felt more sad and downcast than he cared to own—far sadder than the boy himself, who was happy enough to enter a new career and find companions of his own age. Becky burst out laughing once or twice when the Colonel, in his clumsy, incoherent way, tried to express his sentimental sorrows at the boy’s departure. The poor fellow felt that his dearest pleasure and closest friend was taken from him. He looked often and wistfully at the little vacant bed in his dressing-room, where the child used to sleep. He missed him sadly of mornings and tried in vain to walk in the park without him. He did not know how solitary he was until little Rawdon was gone. He liked the people who were fond of him, and would go and sit for long hours with his good-natured sister Lady Jane, and talk to her about the virtues, and good looks, and hundred good qualities of the child.
罗顿·克劳利虽然他学习的唯一一本书是《赛马日历》，尽管他对礼貌学习的主要记忆与他年轻时在伊顿公学受到的鞭打有关，但他对古典学习怀有所有英国人都具有的正派而诚实的崇敬之情。先生们感到高兴，并很高兴地认为他的儿子可能会得到生活的保障，并且有一定的机会成为一名学者。尽管他的儿子是他主要的安慰和伴侣，并因一千种小关系而受到他的喜爱，而他不愿意与他的妻子谈论这些，而他的妻子一直对他们的儿子表现出极大的冷漠，但罗登立即同意了为了这个小伙子的福祉，与他分开，放弃自己最大的安慰和利益。直到有必要让他离开时，他才知道自己有多喜欢这个孩子。当他离开时，他感到比他愿意承受的更加悲伤和沮丧——比男孩本人更悲伤，他很高兴能够进入新的职业并找到同龄的同伴。当上校以笨拙、语无伦次的方式试图表达他对男孩离开的感伤之情时，贝基突然大笑起来。这个可怜的家伙感到他最亲爱的快乐和最亲密的朋友被夺走了。他时常若有所思地看着更衣室里那张空着的小床，孩子以前就睡在那里。他每天早上都悲伤地想念他，并试图在没有他的情况下在公园里散步，但徒劳无功。直到小罗登走后，他才知道自己有多么孤独。他喜欢那些喜欢他的人，他会去和他善良的妹妹简夫人一起坐上很长时间，和她谈论这孩子的美德、英俊的外表和一百种优良品质。

Young Rawdon’s aunt, we have said, was very fond of him, as was her little girl, who wept copiously when the time for her cousin’s departure came. The elder Rawdon was thankful for the fondness of mother and daughter. The very best and honestest feelings of the man came out in these artless outpourings of paternal feeling in which he indulged in their presence, and encouraged by their sympathy. He secured not only Lady Jane’s kindness, but her sincere regard, by the feelings which he manifested, and which he could not show to his own wife. The two kinswomen met as seldom as possible. Becky laughed bitterly at Jane’s feelings and softness; the other’s kindly and gentle nature could not but revolt at her sister’s callous behaviour.
我们已经说过，年轻的罗登的姨妈非常喜欢他，她的小女儿也是如此，当她表弟离开的时候，她哭得很厉害。老罗登对母女俩的喜爱表示感谢。这个男人最好、最诚实的感情就在这些天真无邪的父爱情感中流露出来，他在他们面前沉迷其中，并受到他们同情的鼓励。他通过自己所表现出的感情，不仅赢得了简夫人的善意，还赢得了她真诚的尊重，而他无法向自己的妻子表达这种感情。两位亲戚尽量少见面。贝基对简的感情和温柔苦笑。对方的善良和温柔的性格不得不对她姐姐的冷酷行为感到反感。

It estranged Rawdon from his wife more than he knew or acknowledged to himself. She did not care for the estrangement. Indeed, she did not miss him or anybody. She looked upon him as her errand-man and humble slave. He might be ever so depressed or sulky, and she did not mark his demeanour, or only treated it with a sneer. She was busy thinking about her position, or her pleasures, or her advancement in society; she ought to have held a great place in it, that is certain.
这使罗登与妻子的疏远程度超出了他自己的认识或承认。她并不关心这种疏远。事实上，她并没有想念他或任何人。她把他视为她的跑腿和卑微的奴隶。他可能曾经那么郁闷或者愠怒，而她并没有注意到他的举止，或者只是冷笑。她正忙着思考她的地位、她的快乐、或者她在社会中的进步；她应该在其中占据重要地位，这是肯定的。

It was honest Briggs who made up the little kit for the boy which he was to take to school. Molly, the housemaid, blubbered in the passage when he went away—Molly kind and faithful in spite of a long arrear of unpaid wages. Mrs. Becky could not let her husband have the carriage to take the boy to school. Take the horses into the City!—such a thing was never heard of. Let a cab be brought. She did not offer to kiss him when he went, nor did the child propose to embrace her; but gave a kiss to old Briggs (whom, in general, he was very shy of caressing), and consoled her by pointing out that he was to come home on Saturdays, when she would have the benefit of seeing him. As the cab rolled towards the City, Becky’s carriage rattled off to the park. She was chattering and laughing with a score of young dandies by the Serpentine as the father and son entered at the old gates of the school—where Rawdon left the child and came away with a sadder purer feeling in his heart than perhaps that poor battered fellow had ever known since he himself came out of the nursery.
诚实的布里格斯为这个男孩准备了一个小工具包，让他带去学校。当他离开时，女仆莫莉在过道里哭了起来——尽管长期拖欠工资，莫莉还是善良而忠诚的。贝基夫人不能让她的丈夫有马车送男孩上学。把马匹带进城里！——这样的事从来没有听说过。让出租车过来。当他走时，她没有主动提出要吻他，孩子也没有主动拥抱她。但他吻了老布里格斯（一般来说，他很害羞地爱抚老布里格斯），并安慰她，指出他周六会回家，届时她将有机会见到他。当出租车驶向市区时，贝基的马车嘎嘎作响地驶向公园。当这对父子走进学校的旧大门时，她正和蛇纹石边的二十个年轻纨绔子弟有说有笑——罗登把孩子留在学校，带着比那个可怜的受虐待的家伙更悲伤、更纯洁的感觉离开。自从他自己从幼儿园出来就知道了。

He walked all the way home very dismally, and dined alone with Briggs. He was very kind to her and grateful for her love and watchfulness over the boy. His conscience smote him that he had borrowed Briggs’s money and aided in deceiving her. They talked about little Rawdon a long time, for Becky only came home to dress and go out to dinner—and then he went off uneasily to drink tea with Lady Jane, and tell her of what had happened, and how little Rawdon went off like a trump, and how he was to wear a gown and little knee-breeches, and how young Blackball, Jack Blackball’s son, of the old regiment, had taken him in charge and promised to be kind to him.
他心情沮丧地一路走回家，并与布里格斯单独吃饭。他对她非常友善，并感谢她对这个男孩的爱和照顾。他的良心谴责他借了布里格斯的钱并帮助欺骗了她。他们谈论了小罗登很长时间，因为贝基只是回家穿好衣服，然后出去吃晚饭，然后他不安地去和简夫人喝茶，告诉她发生了什么事，以及小罗登是如何离开的王牌，他如何穿长袍和小及膝马裤，以及老军团中杰克·布莱克鲍尔的儿子年轻的布莱克鲍尔如何接管他并承诺对他友善。

In the course of a week, young Blackball had constituted little Rawdon his fag, shoe-black, and breakfast toaster; initiated him into the mysteries of the Latin Grammar; and thrashed him three or four times, but not severely. The little chap’s good-natured honest face won his way for him. He only got that degree of beating which was, no doubt, good for him; and as for blacking shoes, toasting bread, and fagging in general, were these offices not deemed to be necessary parts of every young English gentleman’s education?
在一周的时间里，年轻的布莱克鲍尔把小罗登变成了他的同性恋者、擦鞋匠和早餐烤面包机。引导他了解拉丁文语法的奥秘；并殴打了他三四次，但并不严重。小家伙那张善良诚实的脸为他赢得了胜利。他只受到了一定程度的殴打，毫无疑问，这对他来说是有好处的；至于擦鞋、烤面包和一般的操蛋，这些工作难道不被认为是每个年轻英国绅士教育的必要组成部分吗？

Our business does not lie with the second generation and Master Rawdon’s life at school, otherwise the present tale might be carried to any indefinite length. The Colonel went to see his son a short time afterwards and found the lad sufficiently well and happy, grinning and laughing in his little black gown and little breeches.
我们不关心第二代和罗登大师的学校生活，否则这个故事可能会无限期地延续下去。不久之后，上校去看望了他的儿子，发现这个小伙子身体很好，很高兴，穿着黑色小礼服和小马裤，咧着嘴笑。

His father sagaciously tipped Blackball, his master, a sovereign, and secured that young gentleman’s good-will towards his fag. As a protege of the great Lord Steyne, the nephew of a County member, and son of a Colonel and C.B., whose name appeared in some of the most fashionable parties in the Morning Post, perhaps the school authorities were disposed not to look unkindly on the child. He had plenty of pocket-money, which he spent in treating his comrades royally to raspberry tarts, and he was often allowed to come home on Saturdays to his father, who always made a jubilee of that day. When free, Rawdon would take him to the play, or send him thither with the footman; and on Sundays he went to church with Briggs and Lady Jane and his cousins. Rawdon marvelled over his stories about school, and fights, and fagging. Before long, he knew the names of all the masters and the principal boys as well as little Rawdon himself. He invited little Rawdon’s crony from school, and made both the children sick with pastry, and oysters, and porter after the play. He tried to look knowing over the Latin grammar when little Rawdon showed him what part of that work he was ‘in.’ ‘Stick to it, my boy,’ he said to him with much gravity, ‘there’s nothing like a good classical education! Nothing!’
他的父亲明智地向他的主人、一位君主布莱克鲍尔透露了消息，并确保了这位年轻绅士对他的基佬的善意。作为伟大的斯泰因勋爵的门生，斯泰因勋爵是一位县议员的侄子，也是一位上校和 C.B. 的儿子，他的名字出现在《晨报》的一些最时尚的派对上，也许学校当局不会对他们表现出不友善的态度。孩子。他有很多零用钱，他用这些钱来款待他的战友们吃覆盆子馅饼，而且他经常被允许在星期六回家见他的父亲，他总是在这一天庆祝。有空的时候，罗登会带他去看戏，或者派他和男仆一起去那里。周日，他和布里格斯、简夫人以及他的表兄弟一起去教堂。罗登对他关于学校、打架和操的故事感到惊讶。不久之后，他就知道了所有大师和主要男孩的名字，甚至还知道了小罗登本人。他从学校邀请了小罗登的密友，并在演出结束后用糕点、牡蛎和波特让两个孩子都感到恶心。当小罗登向他展示他正在“从事”这项工作的哪一部分时，他试图表现出对拉丁文语法的了解。“坚持下去，我的孩子，”他严肃地对他说，“没有什么比良好的古典教育更好的了。” ！没有什么！'

Becky’s contempt for her husband grew greater every day. ‘Do what you like—dine where you please—go and have ginger-beer and sawdust at Astley’s, or psalm-singing with Lady Jane—only don’t expect me to busy myself with the boy. I have your interests to attend to, as you can’t attend to them yourself. I should like to know where you would have been now, and in what sort of a position in society, if I had not looked after you.’ Indeed, nobody wanted poor old Rawdon at the parties whither Becky used to go. She was often asked without him now. She talked about great people as if she had the fee-simple of May Fair, and when the Court went into mourning, she always wore black.
贝基对她丈夫的蔑视与日俱增。 “做你喜欢做的事——在你喜欢的地方吃饭——去阿斯特利家喝姜汁啤酒和锯末，或者和简夫人一起唱圣歌——只是别指望我会忙着照顾这个男孩。我有你的兴趣需要照顾，因为你自己无法照顾它们。我想知道，如果我没有照顾你，你现在会在哪里，在社会上处于什么样的地位。”事实上，没有人愿意可怜的老罗登参加贝基过去常去的聚会。现在经常有人问她，没有他在场。她谈论伟人时就像梅菲尔那样，当宫廷陷入哀悼时，她总是穿黑色衣服。

Little Rawdon being disposed of, Lord Steyne, who took such a parental interest in the affairs of this amiable poor family, thought that their expenses might be very advantageously curtailed by the departure of Miss Briggs, and that Becky was quite clever enough to take the management of her own house. It has been narrated in a former chapter how the benevolent nobleman had given his protegee money to pay off her little debt to Miss Briggs, who however still remained behind with her friends; whence my lord came to the painful conclusion that Mrs. Crawley had made some other use of the money confided to her than that for which her generous patron had given the loan. However, Lord Steyne was not so rude as to impart his suspicions upon this head to Mrs. Becky, whose feelings might be hurt by any controversy on the money-question, and who might have a thousand painful reasons for disposing otherwise of his lordship’s generous loan. But he determined to satisfy himself of the real state of the case, and instituted the necessary inquiries in a most cautious and delicate manner.
小罗登被处理掉后，斯泰因勋爵对这个和蔼可亲的贫困家庭的事务如此关心，他认为布里格斯小姐的离开可能会非常有利地减少他们的开支，而且贝基很聪明，可以接受管理自己的房子。在前一章中已经叙述过，仁慈的贵族如何给他的门生钱来偿还她欠布里格斯小姐的小额债务，但布里格斯小姐仍然和她的朋友们一起留在了后面。由此，勋爵得出了一个痛苦的结论：克劳利夫人将托付给她的钱用于其他用途，而不是她慷慨的赞助人提供的贷款。然而，斯泰因勋爵并没有那么粗鲁，把他对这个问题的怀疑告诉了贝基夫人，贝基夫人的感情可能会因为金钱问题上的任何争议而受到伤害，而且她可能有一千个痛苦的理由来处理勋爵的慷慨。贷款。但他决心让自己了解案件的真实情况，并以极其谨慎和微妙的方式进行必要的调查。

In the first place he took an early opportunity of pumping Miss Briggs. That was not a difficult operation. A very little encouragement would set that worthy woman to talk volubly and pour out all within her. And one day when Mrs. Rawdon had gone out to drive (as Mr. Fiche, his lordship’s confidential servant, easily learned at the livery stables where the Crawleys kept their carriage and horses, or rather, where the livery-man kept a carriage and horses for Mr. and Mrs. Crawley)—my lord dropped in upon the Curzon Street house—asked Briggs for a cup of coffee—told her that he had good accounts of the little boy at school—and in five minutes found out from her that Mrs. Rawdon had given her nothing except a black silk gown, for which Miss Briggs was immensely grateful.
首先，他抓住了一个早期的机会，给布里格斯小姐打气。这并不是一个困难的手术。一点点的鼓励就会让那位可敬的女人滔滔不绝地滔滔不绝地倾诉她内心的一切。有一天，罗登夫人出去开车（正如费奇先生，伯爵领主的心腹仆人，在马厩里很容易了解到的那样，克劳利夫妇停放着他们的马车和马匹，或者更确切地说，马车夫停着一辆马车和马车。克劳利先生和夫人的马）——我的主人顺便拜访了柯松街的房子——向布里格斯要了一杯咖啡——告诉她他在学校里对这个小男孩有很好的评价——五分钟后就从她那里得知了罗登夫人除了一件黑色丝质长袍之外什么也没给她，对此布里格斯小姐非常感激。

He laughed within himself at this artless story. For the truth is, our dear friend Rebecca had given him a most circumstantial narration of Briggs’s delight at receiving her money—eleven hundred and twenty-five pounds—and in what securities she had invested it; and what a pang Becky herself felt in being obliged to pay away such a delightful sum of money. ‘Who knows,’ the dear woman may have thought within herself, ‘perhaps he may give me a little more?’ My lord, however, made no such proposal to the little schemer—very likely thinking that he had been sufficiently generous already.
他对这个平淡无奇的故事感到好笑。事实上，我们亲爱的朋友丽贝卡向他讲述了布里格斯在收到她的钱（1125英镑）时的喜悦，以及她将这些钱投资在什么证券上；贝基本人在被迫还清如此令人愉快的一笔钱时感到多么痛苦。 “谁知道呢，”这位亲爱的女人可能心里想，“也许他能给我多一点？”然而，我的主人并没有向这个小阴谋家提出这样的建议——很可能认为他已经足够慷慨了。

He had the curiosity, then, to ask Miss Briggs about the state of her private affairs—and she told his lordship candidly what her position was—how Miss Crawley had left her a legacy—how her relatives had had part of it—how Colonel Crawley had put out another portion, for which she had the best security and interest— and how Mr. and Mrs. Rawdon had kindly busied themselves with Sir Pitt, who was to dispose of the remainder most advantageously for her, when he had time. My lord asked how much the Colonel had already invested for her, and Miss Briggs at once and truly told him that the sum was six hundred and odd pounds.
于是，他好奇地想向布里格斯小姐询问她的私人事务的情况——她坦率地告诉了勋爵大人她的立场是什么——克劳利小姐如何给她留下了遗产——她的亲戚们如何拥有了其中的一部分——上校如何克劳利已经拿出了另一部分，对此她有最好的安全和利益——罗登先生和夫人如何善意地与皮特爵士一起忙碌，皮特爵士将在有时间的时候为她最有利地处置剩余的部分。勋爵问上校已经为她投资了多少钱，布里格斯小姐立即如实地告诉他，这笔钱是六百多英镑。

But as soon as she had told her story, the voluble Briggs repented of her frankness and besought my lord not to tell Mr. Crawley of the confessions which she had made. ‘The Colonel was so kind—Mr. Crawley might be offended and pay back the money, for which she could get no such good interest anywhere else.’ Lord Steyne, laughing, promised he never would divulge their conversation, and when he and Miss Briggs parted he laughed still more.
但当她讲完她的故事后，健谈的布里格斯就为自己的坦白感到后悔，并恳求勋爵不要将她的坦白告诉克劳利先生。 “上校真是太好了——先生。”克劳利可能会生气，然后还钱，因为这笔钱她在其他地方得不到这么好的利息。 斯泰因勋爵笑着保证他永远不会泄露他们的谈话，当他和布里格斯小姐分开时，他笑得更厉害了。

‘What an accomplished little devil it is!’ thought he. ‘What a splendid actress and manager! She had almost got a second supply out of me the other day; with her coaxing ways. She beats all the women I have ever seen in the course of all my well-spent life. They are babies compared to her. I am a greenhorn myself, and a fool in her hands—an old fool. She is unsurpassable in lies.’ His lordship’s admiration for Becky rose immeasurably at this proof of her cleverness. Getting the money was nothing—but getting double the sum she wanted, and paying nobody—it was a magnificent stroke. And Crawley, my lord thought—Crawley is not such a fool as he looks and seems. He has managed the matter cleverly enough on his side. Nobody would ever have supposed from his face and demeanour that he knew anything about this money business; and yet he put her up to it, and has spent the money, no doubt. In this opinion my lord, we know, was mistaken, but it influenced a good deal his behaviour towards Colonel Crawley, whom he began to treat with even less than that semblance of respect which he had formerly shown towards that gentleman. It never entered into the head of Mrs. Crawley’s patron that the little lady might be making a purse for herself; and, perhaps, if the truth must be told, he judged of Colonel Crawley by his experience of other husbands, whom he had known in the course of the long and well-spent life which had made him acquainted with a great deal of the weakness of mankind. My lord had bought so many men during his life that he was surely to be pardoned for supposing that he had found the price of this one.
“这真是一个多才多艺的小恶魔！”他想。 “真是一位出色的演员和经纪人！前几天她几乎从我这里得到了第二份供应；用她的哄骗方式。她打败了我一生中见过的所有女人。与她相比，他们都是婴儿。我自己也是个新手，在她手里就是一个傻瓜——一个老傻瓜。她的谎言无与伦比。” 贝基的聪明才智得到了证明，爵爷对贝基的钦佩之情油然而生。拿到钱不算什么——但是得到她想要的双倍的钱，而且不用付钱——这是一笔了不起的一笔。还有克劳利，大人想——克劳利并不像他看起来那样傻。他在这件事上处理得很巧妙。没有人会从他的表情和举止中推测出他对金钱生意有任何了解。但他还是让她这么做了，毫无疑问，他已经把钱花光了。我们知道，我的勋爵的这种观点是错误的，但这极大地影响了他对克劳利上校的行为，他开始对待克劳利上校，甚至比他以前对那位绅士表现出的尊重还要少。克劳利夫人的赞助人从来没有想到这位小女士可能会为自己制作一个钱包；她从来没有想过这位小女士可能会为自己制作一个钱包。而且，也许，如果必须说实话，他对克劳利上校的评价是根据他对其他丈夫的经历，他在漫长而美好的一生中认识了这些丈夫，这使他熟悉了许多弱点。人类的。我的主人一生中买过这么多人，如果他找到了这个人的价格，那当然是可以原谅的。

He taxed Becky upon the point on the very first occasion when he met her alone, and he complimented her, good-humouredly, on her cleverness in getting more than the money which she required. Becky was only a little taken aback. It was not the habit of this dear creature to tell falsehoods, except when necessity compelled, but in these great emergencies it was her practice to lie very freely; and in an instant she was ready with another neat plausible circumstantial story which she administered to her patron. The previous statement which she had made to him was a falsehood—a wicked falsehood—she owned it. But who had made her tell it? ‘Ah, my Lord,’ she said, ‘you don’t know all I have to suffer and bear in silence; you see me gay and happy before you—you little know what I have to endure when there is no protector near me. It was my husband, by threats and the most savage treatment, forced me to ask for that sum about which I deceived you. It was he who, foreseeing that questions might be asked regarding the disposal of the money, forced me to account for it as I did. He took the money. He told me he had paid Miss Briggs; I did not want, I did not dare to doubt him. Pardon the wrong which a desperate man is forced to commit, and pity a miserable, miserable woman.’ She burst into tears as she spoke. Persecuted virtue never looked more bewitchingly wretched.
当他第一次单独见到贝基时，他就在这一点上向她征税，并幽默地称赞她很聪明，得到了比她需要的更多的钱。贝基只是有点吃惊。除非迫不得已，否则这个可爱的生物没有说谎的习惯，但在这些重大紧急情况下，她的习惯是非常随意地撒谎。很快，她就准备好向她的赞助人讲述另一个简洁可信的间接故事。她之前对他说的那句话是一个谎言——一个邪恶的谎言——她承认这一点。但谁让她说出来的呢？ “啊，主啊，”她说，“您不知道我必须默默忍受和忍受的一切；你看到我在你面前快乐而快乐——你几乎不知道当我身边没有保护者时我必须忍受什么。是我的丈夫通过威胁和最野蛮的对待，强迫我要了我欺骗你的那笔钱。是他预见到可能会提出有关这笔钱的处置的问题，迫使我按照我的做法进行解释。他拿走了钱。他告诉我他已经付钱给布里格斯小姐了。我不想，我也不敢怀疑他。原谅一个绝望的男人被迫犯下的错误，怜悯一个悲惨、悲惨的女人。”说着，她泪流满面。受迫害的美德看起来从来没有比这更令人着迷的悲惨了。

They had a long conversation, driving round and round the Regent’s Park in Mrs. Crawley’s carriage together, a conversation of which it is not necessary to repeat the details, but the upshot of it was that, when Becky came home, she flew to her dear Briggs with a smiling face and announced that she had some very good news for her. Lord Steyne had acted in the noblest and most generous manner. He was always thinking how and when he could do good. Now that little Rawdon was gone to school, a dear companion and friend was no longer necessary to her. She was grieved beyond measure to part with Briggs, but her means required that she should practise every retrenchment, and her sorrow was mitigated by the idea that her dear Briggs would be far better provided for by her generous patron than in her humble home. Mrs. Pilkington, the housekeeper at Gauntly Hall, was growing exceedingly old, feeble, and rheumatic: she was not equal to the work of superintending that vast mansion, and must be on the look out for a successor. It was a splendid position. The family did not go to Gauntly once in two years. At other times the housekeeper was the mistress of the magnificent mansion—had four covers daily for her table; was visited by the clergy and the most respectable people of the county—was the lady of Gauntly, in fact; and the two last housekeepers before Mrs. Pilkington had married rectors of Gauntly—but Mrs. P. could not, being the aunt of the present Rector. The place was not to be hers yet, but she might go down on a visit to Mrs. Pilkington and see whether she would like to succeed her.
他们一起坐着克劳利夫人的马车在摄政公园里绕了一圈又一圈，聊了很长时间，谈话的细节不必重复，但结果是，当贝基回家时，她飞奔到她身边。亲爱的布里格斯面带微笑，宣布她有一些非常好的消息要告诉她。斯泰因勋爵的行为举止是最高尚、最慷慨的。他总是在思考如何以及何时可以做好事。现在小罗登已经上学了，她不再需要一个亲爱的同伴和朋友了。与布里格斯分手，她感到无比悲伤，但她的经济能力要求她应该实行每一次紧缩，想到她慷慨的赞助人会比在她简陋的家里更好地照顾亲爱的布里格斯，她的悲伤减轻了。冈特利庄园的女管家皮尔金顿夫人年事已高，身体虚弱，还患有风湿病：她无法胜任管理这座巨大宅邸的工作，必须寻找继任者。这是一个极好的位置。一家人两年没有去过冈特利一次。其他时候，管家是这座宏伟宅邸的女主人——每天为她的桌子准备四张被子；神职人员和县里最受尊敬的人来拜访她——实际上是冈特利的夫人；皮尔金顿夫人之前的最后两位管家都嫁给了冈特利的校长——但皮尔金顿夫人却不能，因为她是现任校长的姑妈。这个地方还不是她的，但她可能会去拜访皮尔金顿夫人，看看她是否愿意接替她。

What words can paint the ecstatic gratitude of Briggs! All she stipulated for was that little Rawdon should be allowed to come down and see her at the Hall. Becky promised this—anything. She ran up to her husband when he came home and told him the joyful news. Rawdon was glad, deuced glad; the weight was off his conscience about poor Briggs’s money. She was provided for, at any rate, but— but his mind was disquiet. He did not seem to be all right, somehow. He told little Southdown what Lord Steyne had done, and the young man eyed Crawley with an air which surprised the latter.
布里格斯欣喜若狂的感激之情是用什么言语来形容的！她所规定的只是允许小罗登下来大厅见她。贝基答应了这一点——任何事。当丈夫回到家时，她跑向他，告诉他这个喜讯。罗登很高兴，果然很高兴；可怜的布里格斯的钱让他良心不安。无论如何，她得到了照顾，但是——但是他的心很不安。不知何故，他看起来不太对劲。他告诉小绍斯当勋爵斯泰因勋爵所做的事情，年轻人看着克劳利，神情使后者感到惊讶。

He told Lady Jane of this second proof of Steyne’s bounty, and she, too, looked odd and alarmed; so did Sir Pitt. ‘She is too clever and—and gay to be allowed to go from party to party without a companion,’ both said. ‘You must go with her, Rawdon, wherever she goes, and you must have somebody with her—one of the girls from Queen’s Crawley, perhaps, though they were rather giddy guardians for her.’
他告诉简女士斯泰因赏金的第二个证据，而她也显得奇怪而惊慌。皮特爵士也是如此。两人都说，“她太聪明了，而且太同性恋了，不能在没有同伴的情况下从一个聚会到另一个聚会。” “罗登，无论她去哪里，你都必须和她一起去，而且你必须有人陪着她——也许是来自皇后克劳利的女孩之一，尽管她们对她来说是相当令人眼花缭乱的监护人。”

Somebody Becky should have. But in the meantime it was clear that honest Briggs must not lose her chance of settlement for life, and so she and her bags were packed, and she set off on her journey. And so two of Rawdon’s out-sentinels were in the hands of the enemy.
贝基应该有一个人。但与此同时，很明显，诚实的布里格斯决不能失去终生定居的机会，于是她和行李收拾好了，出发了。就这样，罗登的两名哨兵落入了敌人的手中。

Sir Pitt went and expostulated with his sister-in-law upon the subject of the dismissal of Briggs and other matters of delicate family interest. In vain she pointed out to him how necessary was the protection of Lord Steyne for her poor husband; how cruel it would be on their part to deprive Briggs of the position offered to her. Cajolements, coaxings, smiles, tears could not satisfy Sir Pitt, and he had something very like a quarrel with his once admired Becky. He spoke of the honour of the family, the unsullied reputation of the Crawleys; expressed himself in indignant tones about her receiving those young Frenchmen—those wild young men of fashion, my Lord Steyne himself, whose carriage was always at her door, who passed hours daily in her company, and whose constant presence made the world talk about her. As the head of the house he implored her to be more prudent. Society was already speaking lightly of her. Lord Steyne, though a nobleman of the greatest station and talents, was a man whose attentions would compromise any woman; he besought, he implored, he commanded his sister-in-law to be watchful in her intercourse with that nobleman.
皮特爵士前往与他的嫂子就解雇布里格斯和其他涉及微妙家庭利益的问题进行劝告。她徒劳地向他指出斯泰因勋爵对她可怜的丈夫的保护是多么必要。如果他们剥夺布里格斯提供给她的职位，那将是多么残酷啊。哄骗、哄骗、微笑、泪水都无法让皮特爵士满意，他和他曾经崇拜的贝基发生了一场很像争吵的事情。他谈到了家族的荣誉和克劳利一家清白的声誉。他用愤怒的语气表达了她接待那些年轻的法国人的事——那些狂野的时尚年轻人，我的斯泰因勋爵本人，他的马车总是停在她的门口，每天在她的陪伴下度过几个小时，他们的不断出现让全世界都在谈论她。作为一家之主，他恳求她更加谨慎。社会已经开始轻视她了。斯泰因勋爵虽然是一位地位最高、才华横溢的贵族，但他的关注会让任何女人妥协。他恳求，他恳求，他命令他的嫂子在与那位贵族交往时要小心。

Becky promised anything and everything Pitt wanted; but Lord Steyne came to her house as often as ever, and Sir Pitt’s anger increased. I wonder was Lady Jane angry or pleased that her husband at last found fault with his favourite Rebecca? Lord Steyne’s visits continuing, his own ceased, and his wife was for refusing all further intercourse with that nobleman and declining the invitation to the charade-night which the marchioness sent to her; but Sir Pitt thought it was necessary to accept it, as his Royal Highness would be there.
贝基答应了皮特想要的一切。但斯泰因勋爵还是一如既往地经常来她家，皮特爵士的怒气越来越大。我想知道简女士对于她的丈夫终于对他最喜欢的丽贝卡挑衅是生气还是高兴？斯泰因勋爵的来访仍在继续，而他自己的来访则停止了，而他的妻子则拒绝与那位贵族进行任何进一步的交往，并拒绝了侯爵夫人向她发出的猜字谜之夜的邀请。但皮特爵士认为有必要接受，因为殿下也会在那里。

Although he went to the party in question, Sir Pitt quitted it very early, and his wife, too, was very glad to come away. Becky hardly so much as spoke to him or noticed her sister-in-law. Pitt Crawley declared her behaviour was monstrously indecorous, reprobated in strong terms the habit of play-acting and fancy dressing as highly unbecoming a British female, and after the charades were over, took his brother Rawdon severely to task for appearing himself and allowing his wife to join in such improper exhibitions.
尽管皮特爵士参加了那个聚会，但他很早就退出了，他的妻子也很高兴离开。贝基几乎没有和他说话，也没有注意到她的嫂子。皮特·克劳利 (Pitt Crawley) 宣称她的行为极其不雅，严厉斥责了演戏和奇装异服的习惯，认为她非常不适合英国女性。参加此类不正当展览。

Rawdon said she should not join in any more such amusements—but indeed, and perhaps from hints from his elder brother and sister, he had already become a very watchful and exemplary domestic character. He left off his clubs and billiards. He never left home. He took Becky out to drive; he went laboriously with her to all her parties. Whenever my Lord Steyne called, he was sure to find the Colonel. And when Becky proposed to go out without her husband, or received invitations for herself, he peremptorily ordered her to refuse them: and there was that in the gentleman’s manner which enforced obedience. Little Becky, to do her justice, was charmed with Rawdon’s gallantry. If he was surly, she never was. Whether friends were present or absent, she had always a kind smile for him and was attentive to his pleasure and comfort. It was the early days of their marriage over again: the same good humour, prevenances, merriment, and artless confidence and regard. ‘How much pleasanter it is,’ she would say, ‘to have you by my side in the carriage than that foolish old Briggs! Let us always go on so, dear Rawdon. How nice it would be, and how happy we should always be, if we had but the money!’ He fell asleep after dinner in his chair; he did not see the face opposite to him, haggard, weary, and terrible; it lighted up with fresh candid smiles when he woke. It kissed him gaily. He wondered that he had ever had suspicions. No, he never had suspicions; all those dumb doubts and surly misgivings which had been gathering on his mind were mere idle jealousies. She was fond of him; she always had been. As for her shining in society, it was no fault of hers; she was formed to shine there. Was there any woman who could talk, or sing, or do anything like her? If she would but like the boy! Rawdon thought. But the mother and son never could be brought together.
罗登说她不应该再参加这样的娱乐活动了——但事实上，也许是从他哥哥和姐姐的暗示来看，他已经成为一个非常警惕和模范的家庭角色。他放弃了球杆和台球。他从未离开过家。他带贝基出去开车；他费力地陪她参加她所有的聚会。每当斯泰因勋爵打电话时，他一定会找到上校。当贝基提出不带丈夫出去，或者自己收到邀请时，他断然命令她拒绝：绅士的态度迫使她服从。公平地说，小贝基被罗登的英勇所迷住了。如果说他脾气暴躁，她却从来不是。无论朋友在场还是缺席，她总是对他微笑，关心他的快乐和舒适。这又是他们结婚初期的情景：同样的幽默、预防、欢乐，以及天真无邪的自信和尊重。 “在马车里有你在我身边，比那个愚蠢的老布里格斯要愉快多了！”她会说！让我们一直这样下去吧，亲爱的罗登。 “如果我们有钱的话，那该多好啊，我们应该永远幸福啊！”晚饭后，他在椅子上睡着了。他没有看到对面那张脸，那张脸憔悴、疲倦、可怕。当他醒来时，脸上绽放出新鲜而坦诚的微笑。它欢快地吻了他。他想知道自己是否曾有过怀疑。不，他从来没有怀疑过；他心中所有那些愚蠢的怀疑和乖戾的疑虑都只是无意义的嫉妒。她很喜欢他；她一直都是。至于她在社会上的光彩，这并不是她的错，而是她的错。她生来就是为了在那里发光。有没有女人能像她一样说话、唱歌或做任何事？如果她喜欢这个男孩就好了！ 罗登心想。但母子俩始终没能走到一起。

And it was while Rawdon’s mind was agitated with these doubts and perplexities that the incident occurred which was mentioned in the last chapter, and the unfortunate Colonel found himself a prisoner away from home.
就在罗登的心被这些疑惑和困惑所困扰的时候，上一章提到的事件发生了，不幸的上校发现自己成了一个远离家乡的囚犯。

Chapter LIII
第五章


A Rescue and a Catastrophe
一场救援与一场灾难

Friend Rawdon drove on then to Mr. Moss’s mansion in Cursitor Street, and was duly inducted into that dismal place of hospitality. Morning was breaking over the cheerful house-tops of Chancery Lane as the rattling cab woke up the echoes there. A little pink-eyed Jew-boy, with a head as ruddy as the rising morn, let the party into the house, and Rawdon was welcomed to the ground-floor apartments by Mr. Moss, his travelling companion and host, who cheerfully asked him if he would like a glass of something warm after his drive.
朋友罗登随后驱车前往莫斯先生位于柯西托街的豪宅，并正式进入了那个令人沮丧的待客之所。清晨，大法官巷欢快的房顶破晓了，嘎嘎作响的出租车唤醒了那里的回声。一个粉红眼睛的犹太小男孩，他的头像初升的早晨一样红润，让一行人进入了房子，罗登受到他的旅伴兼主人莫斯先生的欢迎，来到一楼的公寓，莫斯先生高兴地问道如果他想在开车后喝一杯热的东西的话。

The Colonel was not so depressed as some mortals would be, who, quitting a palace and a placens uxor, find themselves barred into a spunging-house; for, if the truth must be told, he had been a lodger at Mr. Moss’s establishment once or twice before. We have not thought it necessary in the previous course of this narrative to mention these trivial little domestic incidents: but the reader may be assured that they can’t unfrequently occur in the life of a man who lives on nothing a year.
上校并不像某些凡人那样沮丧，他们离开了宫殿和宫廷侍卫，发现自己被关进了一间海绵屋；因为，如果必须说实话的话，他以前曾在莫斯先生的住所里住过一两次。我们认为在前面的叙述中没有必要提及这些琐碎的家庭小事：但读者可以放心，这些小事不会经常发生在一个一年一无所有的人的生活中。

Upon his first visit to Mr. Moss, the Colonel, then a bachelor, had been liberated by the generosity of his aunt; on the second mishap, little Becky, with the greatest spirit and kindness, had borrowed a sum of money from Lord Southdown and had coaxed her husband’s creditor (who was her shawl, velvet-gown, lace pocket-handkerchief, trinket, and gim-crack purveyor, indeed) to take a portion of the sum claimed and Rawdon’s promissory note for the remainder: so on both these occasions the capture and release had been conducted with the utmost gallantry on all sides, and Moss and the Colonel were therefore on the very best of terms.
上校第一次拜访莫斯先生时，当时还是个单身汉，在姨妈的慷慨帮助下，他的思想得到了解放。第二次不幸时，小贝基以最大的精神和善良，向绍斯当勋爵借了一笔钱，并哄骗了她丈夫的债权人（他是她的披肩、天鹅绒长袍、蕾丝口袋手帕、小饰品和饰品）确实）收取了索赔金额的一部分，并用罗登的本票支付其余部分：因此，在这两次事件中，各方都以最大的英勇进行了抓捕和释放，因此莫斯和上校都在非常好的条件。

‘You’ll find your old bed, Colonel, and everything comfortable,’ that gentleman said, ‘as I may honestly say. You may be pretty sure its kep aired, and by the best of company, too. It was slep in the night afore last by the Honorable Capting Famish, of the Fiftieth Dragoons, whose Mar took him out, after a fortnight, jest to punish him, she said. But, Law bless you, I promise you, he punished my champagne, and had a party ere every night—reglar tip-top swells, down from the clubs and the West End—Capting Ragg, the Honorable Deuceace, who lives in the Temple, and some fellers as knows a good glass of wine, I warrant you. I’ve got a Doctor of Diwinity upstairs, five gents in the coffee-room, and Mrs. Moss has a tablydy-hoty at half-past five, and a little cards or music afterwards, when we shall be most happy to see you.’
“你会发现你的旧床，上校，一切都很舒服，”那位绅士说，“正如我诚实地说的那样。您可能非常确定它会继续播出，而且还有最好的公司。她说，前天晚上，第五十龙骑兵团的尊敬的法米什上尉睡了，两周后，他的马尔把他带了出去，开玩笑地惩罚他。但是，法律保佑你，我向你保证，他惩罚了我的香槟，并在每晚之前举办了一场聚会——从俱乐部和西区下来的顶级巨浪——拉格上尉，尊敬的迪塞斯，住在圣殿里，还有一些知道一杯好酒的家伙，我向你保证。楼上有一位神学博士，咖啡室里有五位绅士，莫斯太太在五点半有一场小酒馆，之后还有一些卡片或音乐，那时我们会很高兴见到你.'

‘I’ll ring when I want anything,’ said Rawdon and went quietly to his bedroom. He was an old soldier, we have said, and not to be disturbed by any little shocks of fate. A weaker man would have sent off a letter to his wife on the instant of his capture. ‘But what is the use of disturbing her night’s rest?’ thought Rawdon. ‘She won’t know whether I am in my room or not. It will be time enough to write to her when she has had her sleep out, and I have had mine. It’s only a hundred-and-seventy, and the deuce is in it if we can’t raise that.’ And so, thinking about little Rawdon (whom he would not have know that he was in such a queer place), the Colonel turned into the bed lately occupied by Captain Famish and fell asleep. It was ten o’clock when he woke up, and the ruddyheaded youth brought him, with conscious pride, a fine silver dressing-case, wherewith he might perform the operation of shaving. Indeed Mr. Moss’s house, though somewhat dirty, was splendid throughout. There were dirty trays, and wine-coolers en permanence on the sideboard, huge dirty gilt cornices, with dingy yellow satin hangings to the barred windows which looked into Cursitor Street— vast and dirty gilt picture frames surrounding pieces sporting and sacred, all of which works were by the greatest masters—and fetched the greatest prices, too, in the bill transactions, in the course of which they were sold and bought over and over again. The Colonel’s breakfast was served to him in the same dingy and gorgeous plated ware. Miss Moss, a dark-eyed maid in curl-papers, appeared with the teapot, and, smiling, asked the Colonel how he had slep? And she brought him in the Morning Post, with the names of all the great people who had figured at Lord Steyne’s entertainment the night before. It contained a brilliant account of the festivities and of the beautiful and accomplished Mrs. Rawdon Crawley’s admirable personifications.
“我想要什么就按铃。”罗登说着就悄悄地走进了自己的卧室。我们已经说过，他是一名老战士，不会被命运的任何小小冲击所困扰。一个软弱的男人会在被捕的那一刻给他的妻子写一封信。 “但是打扰她晚上的休息有什么用呢？”罗登想。 “她不会知道我是否在我的房间里。等她睡完，我也睡过之后，就可以给她写信了。才一百七十，如果我们不能提出这个数字，那就是平局了。”于是，想着小罗登（他不会知道他在这样一个奇怪的地方），上校躺在法米什船长最近住过的床上睡着了。他醒来时已是十点钟了，红发青年带着自觉的自豪，给他带来了一个精美的银梳妆盒，他可以用它来进行刮胡子的操作。确实，莫斯先生的房子虽然有点脏，但自始至终都很漂亮。餐具柜上有肮脏的托盘和永久性的酒柜，肮脏的巨大镀金飞檐，俯瞰着库西托街的铁栅栏窗户上挂着肮脏的黄色绸缎——巨大而肮脏的镀金相框围绕着运动和神圣的物品，所有这些作品出自最伟大的大师之手，而且在票据交易中也能卖出最高的价格，在交易过程中它们被一遍又一遍地买卖。上校的早餐是用同样肮脏而华丽的盘子盛着的。莫斯小姐，一个戴着卷纸的黑眼睛女仆，拿着茶壶出现了，微笑着问上校睡得怎么样？她把他带到了《晨报》上，上面刊登了前一天晚上参加斯泰因勋爵娱乐活动的所有伟人的名字。 它精彩地描述了庆祝活动以及美丽而多才多艺的罗登·克劳利夫人令人钦佩的化身。

After a lively chat with this lady (who sat on the edge of the breakfast table in an easy attitude displaying the drapery of her stocking and an ex-white satin shoe, which was down at heel), Colonel Crawley called for pens and ink, and paper, and being asked how many sheets, chose one which was brought to him between Miss Moss’s own finger and thumb. Many a sheet had that dark-eyed damsel brought in; many a poor fellow had scrawled and blotted hurried lines of entreaty and paced up and down that awful room until his messenger brought back the reply. Poor men always use messengers instead of the post. Who has not had their letters, with the wafers wet, and the announcement that a person is waiting in the hall?
与这位女士（她以一种轻松的态度坐在早餐桌边上，展示她的长袜和一双旧的白色缎面鞋，鞋跟朝下）进行了热烈的交谈后，克劳利上校要了钢笔和墨水，和纸，当被问到有多少张时，他选择了莫斯小姐自己的手指和拇指之间递给他的一张。许多床单上都有那个黑眼睛的少女带来的；许多可怜的人匆忙地写下了恳求的字句，然后在那个可怕的房间里来回踱步，直到他的使者带回答复。穷人总是用信使而不是邮政。谁没有收到过他们的信，薄饼湿漉漉的，并宣布有人在大厅里等候？

Now on the score of his application, Rawdon had not many misgivings.
现在，就他的申请成绩而言，罗登并没有太多疑虑。

DEAR BECKY, (Rawdon wrote)
亲爱的贝基，（罗登写道）

I HOPE YOU SLEPT WELL. Don’t be FRIGHTENED if I don’t bring you in your COFFY. Last night as I was coming home smoaking, I met with an ACCADENT. I was NABBED by Moss of Cursitor Street—from whose GILT AND SPLENDID PARLER I write this—the same that had me this time two years. Miss Moss brought in my tea—she is grown very FAT, and, as usual, had her STOCKENS DOWN AT HEAL.
祝你睡个好觉。如果我不把你带进你的咖啡厅，请不要害怕。昨晚，当我抽烟回家时，我遇到了一个意外者。我被库西托街的莫斯抓住了——我写下这篇文章是从他的镀金而辉煌的律师那里——同样的，这次也抓住了我两年。莫斯小姐给我端来了茶——她已经长得很胖了，而且像往常一样，她的袜子也恢复了健康。

It’s Nathan’s business—a hundred-and-fifty—with costs, hundredand-seventy. Please send me my desk and some CLOTHS—I’m in pumps and a white tye (something like Miss M’s stockings)—I’ve seventy in it. And as soon as you get this, Drive to Nathan’s—offer him seventy-five down, and ASK HIM TO RENEW—say I’ll take wine—we may as well have some dinner sherry; but not PICTURS, they’re too dear.
这是内森的事——一百五十——成本是一百七十。请把我的桌子和一些衣服寄给我——我穿着高跟鞋和白色领带（类似于 M 小姐的长筒袜）——我有七十件。你一收到这个，就开车去内森家——给他七十五块钱，然后请他续约——说我要酒——我们晚餐也可以喝点雪利酒；但图片不行，它们太贵了。

If he won’t stand it. Take my ticker and such of your things as you can SPARE, and send them to Balls—we must, of coarse, have the sum to-night. It won’t do to let it stand over, as to-morrow’s Sunday; the beds here are not very CLEAN, and there may be other things out against me—I’m glad it an’t Rawdon’s Saturday for coming home. God bless you.
如果他受不了的话。把我的股票行情记录仪和你能剩下的东西都拿去，然后把它们寄给鲍尔斯——粗略地说，我们今晚必须得到这笔钱。让它搁置是不行的，因为明天是周日；这里的床不是很干净，而且可能还有其他事情对我不利——我很高兴今天不是罗登回家的星期六。上帝祝福你。

Yours in haste, R. C. P.S. Make haste and come.
您的匆忙，R.C.P.S.赶快来吧。

This letter, sealed with a wafer, was dispatched by one of the messengers who are always hanging about Mr. Moss’s establishment, and Rawdon, having seen him depart, went out in the court-yard and smoked his cigar with a tolerably easy mind—in spite of the bars overhead—for Mr. Moss’s court-yard is railed in like a cage, lest the gentlemen who are boarding with him should take a fancy to escape from his hospitality.
这封信是用薄饼密封的，是由一位始终在莫斯先生的店里闲逛的信使寄出的，罗登看到他离开后，就走到院子里，带着一种相当轻松的心情抽起了雪茄——尽管头顶上有栅栏——莫斯先生的庭院像笼子一样被栏杆围起来，以免与他同住的绅士们想逃离他的热情好客。

Three hours, he calculated, would be the utmost time required, before Becky should arrive and open his prison doors, and he passed these pretty cheerfully in smoking, in reading the paper, and in the coffee-room with an acquaintance, Captain Walker, who happened to be there, and with whom he cut for sixpences for some hours, with pretty equal luck on either side.
他计算出，在贝基到达并打开监狱门之前，最多需要三个小时，他在抽烟、看报纸、和熟人沃克船长在咖啡室里度过了这些愉快的时光。他碰巧在那儿，他和他一起花了几个小时的六便士，双方的运气都差不多。

But the day passed away and no messenger returned—no Becky. Mr. Moss’s tably-dy-hoty was served at the appointed hour of half-past five, when such of the gentlemen lodging in the house as could afford to pay for the banquet came and partook of it in the splendid front parlour before described, and with which Mr. Crawley’s temporary lodging communicated, when Miss M. (Miss Hem, as her papa called her) appeared without the curl-papers of the morning, and Mrs. Hem did the honours of a prime boiled leg of mutton and turnips, of which the Colonel ate with a very faint appetite. Asked whether he would ‘stand’ a bottle of champagne for the company, he consented, and the ladies drank to his ‘ealth, and Mr. Moss, in the most polite manner, ‘looked towards him.’
但这一天过去了，没有任何信使回来——贝基也没有回来。莫斯先生的大餐在指定时间五点半送达，当时住在房子里的那些有能力支付宴会费用的绅士们来到了前面描述的华丽的前厅里享用了它，克劳利先生的临时住所与M小姐（赫姆小姐，她爸爸这样称呼她）出现时没有早上的卷发纸出现，赫姆太太荣幸地做了一顿上等的煮羊腿和萝卜，上校吃得胃口很差。当被问及他是否愿意为公司“站”一瓶香槟时，他同意了，女士们为他的健康干杯，莫斯先生以最礼貌的方式“看着他”。

In the midst of this repast, however, the doorbell was heard—young Moss of the ruddy hair rose up with the keys and answered the summons, and coming back, told the Colonel that the messenger had returned with a bag, a desk and a letter, which he gave him. ‘No ceramony, Colonel, I beg,’ said Mrs. Moss with a wave of her hand, and he opened the letter rather tremulously. It was a beautiful letter, highly scented, on a pink paper, and with a light green seal.
然而，就在这顿饭吃到一半的时候，门铃响起了——红发的年轻莫斯拿着钥匙站了起来，应了召唤，回来告诉上校，送信人带着一个包、一张桌子和一个书回来了。信，是他给他的。 “请不要举行任何仪式，上校，”莫斯夫人挥挥手说道，他相当颤抖地打开了信。这是一封漂亮的信，香气扑鼻，粉红色的纸，浅绿色的封条。

MON PAUVRE CHER PETIT, (Mrs. Crawley wrote)
MON PAUVRE CHER PETIT（克劳利夫人写道）

I could not sleep ONE WINK for thinking of what had become of my odious old monstre, and only got to rest in the morning after sending for Mr. Blench (for I was in a fever), who gave me a composing draught and left orders with Finette that I should be disturbed ON NO ACCOUNT. So that my poor old man’s messenger, who had bien mauvaise mine Finette says, and sentoit le Genievre, remained in the hall for some hours waiting my bell. You may fancy my state when I read your poor dear old ill-spelt letter.
我一时间无法入睡，因为想起了我那可恶的老怪物的遭遇，直到早上才派人去找布兰奇先生（因为我正在发烧），他给了我一份作曲草稿并留下了命令，然后我才得以休息。菲内特认为我无论如何都不应受到打扰。因此，我可怜的老人的信使，也就是菲内特所说的“bien mauvaise me”和“sentoit le Genievre”，在大厅里待了几个小时，等我按铃。当我读到你可怜的、亲爱的、拼写错误的老信时，你可能会想象我的状态。

Ill as I was, I instantly called for the carriage, and as soon as I was dressed (though I couldn’t drink a drop of chocolate—I assure you I couldn’t without my monstre to bring it to me), I drove ventre a terre to Nathan’s. I saw him—I wept—I cried—I fell at his odious knees. Nothing would mollify the horrid man. He would have all the money, he said, or keep my poor monstre in prison. I drove home with the intention of paying that triste visite chez mon oncle (when every trinket I have should be at your disposal though they would not fetch a hundred pounds, for some, you know, are with ce cher oncle already), and found Milor there with the Bulgarian old sheep-faced monster, who had come to compliment me upon last night’s performances. Paddington came in, too, drawling and lisping and twiddling his hair; so did Champignac, and his chef—everybody with foison of compliments and pretty speeches—plaguing poor me, who longed to be rid of them, and was thinking every moment of the time of mon pauvre prisonnier.
尽管我病了，我还是立即叫来了马车，一穿好衣服（虽然我一滴巧克力都喝不下去——我向你保证，如果没有我的怪物给我送来，我就不能喝），我就开车了到内森家去住下。我看到他——我哭了——我哭了——我跪倒在他可恶的膝下。没有什么可以安抚这个可怕的男人。他说，他会得到所有的钱，否则就把我可怜的怪物关进监狱。我开车回家，打算去拜访一下我的叔叔（我拥有的每一件小饰品都应该供你使用，尽管它们卖不到一百英镑，因为有些，你知道，已经和叔叔在一起了），然后发现米洛尔和保加利亚老羊脸怪物一起在那里，他是来称赞我昨晚的表演的。帕丁顿也进来了，慢吞吞地、口齿不清地摆弄着头发。尚皮尼亚克和他的厨师也是如此——每个人都充满赞美和漂亮的演讲——困扰着可怜的我，我渴望摆脱他们，每时每刻都在想着我的穷人囚犯。

When they were gone, I went down on my knees to Milor; told him we were going to pawn everything, and begged and prayed him to give me two hundred pounds. He pish’d and psha’d in a fury—told me not to be such a fool as to pawn—and said he would see whether he could lend me the money. At last he went away, promising that he would send it me in the morning: when I will bring it to my poor old monster with a kiss from his affectionate
他们走后，我向米洛尔跪下。告诉他我们要典当一切，并恳求并祈祷他给我两百英镑。他怒气冲冲地撒尿——告诉我不要傻到典当——并说他会看看是否能借给我钱。最后他离开了，答应他会在早上把它寄给我：那时我会用他深情的一个吻把它带给我可怜的老怪物。

BECKY
贝琪

I am writing in bed. Oh I have such a headache and such a heartache!
我正在床上写字。噢，我好头痛，好心痛！

When Rawdon read over this letter, he turned so red and looked so savage that the company at the table d’hote easily perceived that bad news had reached him. All his suspicions, which he had been trying to banish, returned upon him. She could not even go out and sell her trinkets to free him. She could laugh and talk about compliments paid to her, whilst he was in prison. Who had put him there? Wenham had walked with him. Was there.... He could hardly bear to think of what he suspected. Leaving the room hurriedly, he ran into his own—opened his desk, wrote two hurried lines, which he directed to Sir Pitt or Lady Crawley, and bade the messenger carry them at once to Gaunt Street, bidding him to take a cab, and promising him a guinea if he was back in an hour.
当罗登读完这封信时，他的脸涨得通红，看上去很凶恶，以至于同桌的人很容易就意识到他收到了坏消息。他一直试图消除的所有怀疑又回到了他身上。她甚至无法出去卖掉她的小饰品来释放他。当他在监狱里时，她可以笑着谈论对她的赞美。是谁把他放在那里的？温纳姆和他一起散步。是不是在那里……他简直无法想象自己所怀疑的事情。他匆匆离开房间，跑到了自己的房间里——打开办公桌，匆匆写了两行字，写给皮特爵士或克劳利夫人，并吩咐信使立即把他们带到冈特街，叫他搭出租车，然后答应他如果他一小时后回来就给他几尼。

In the note he besought his dear brother and sister, for the sake of God, for the sake of his dear child and his honour, to come to him and relieve him from his difficulty. He was in prison, he wanted a hundred pounds to set him free—he entreated them to come to him.
他在信中恳求他亲爱的兄弟姐妹，为了上帝、为了他亲爱的孩子和他的荣誉，来到他身边，解除他的困难。他在监狱里，他想要一百英镑来释放他——他恳求他们来找他。

He went back to the dining-room after dispatching his messenger and called for more wine. He laughed and talked with a strange boisterousness, as the people thought. Sometimes he laughed madly at his own fears and went on drinking for an hour, listening all the while for the carriage which was to bring his fate back.
他打发完使者后，回到餐厅，又要了酒。正如人们所认为的那样，他笑着说话，带着一种奇怪的喧闹。有时他会因为自己的恐惧而疯狂地大笑，然后继续喝酒一个小时，同时倾听着即将把他的命运带回来的马车的声音。

At the expiration of that time, wheels were heard whirling up to the gate—the young janitor went out with his gate-keys. It was a lady whom he let in at the bailiff’s door.
时间一到，就听见轮子呼呼地驶向大门——年轻的看门人拿着大门钥匙走了出去。他在法警门口放了一位女士进来。

‘Colonel Crawley,’ she said, trembling very much. He, with a knowing look, locked the outer door upon her—then unlocked and opened the inner one, and calling out, ‘Colonel, you’re wanted,’ led her into the back parlour, which he occupied.
“克劳利上校，”她浑身发抖地说。他心知肚明地把外门锁在她身上，然后打开里面的门，喊道：“上校，有人通缉你。”把她领进了他住的后客厅。

Rawdon came in from the dining-parlour where all those people were carousing, into his back room; a flare of coarse light following him into the apartment where the lady stood, still very nervous.
罗登从餐厅里走进来，那里的人们都在狂欢，走进了他的后屋。一道粗糙的灯光跟着他进入了公寓，那位女士站在那里，仍然非常紧张。

‘It is I, Rawdon,’ she said in a timid voice, which she strove to render cheerful. ‘It is Jane.’ Rawdon was quite overcome by that kind voice and presence. He ran up to her—caught her in his arms— gasped out some inarticulate words of thanks and fairly sobbed on her shoulder. She did not know the cause of his emotion.
“是我，罗登，”她用胆怯的声音说道，但她努力让声音变得愉快。 “是简。”罗登被那亲切的声音和存在深深地征服了。他跑向她，将她抱在怀里，喘着粗气说了几句含糊不清的感谢词，靠在她肩上抽泣起来。她不知道他情绪的原因。

The bills of Mr. Moss were quickly settled, perhaps to the disappointment of that gentleman, who had counted on having the Colonel as his guest over Sunday at least; and Jane, with beaming smiles and happiness in her eyes, carried away Rawdon from the bailiff’s house, and they went homewards in the cab in which she had hastened to his release. ‘Pitt was gone to a parliamentary dinner,’ she said, ‘when Rawdon’s note came, and so, dear Rawdon, I—I came myself”; and she put her kind hand in his. Perhaps it was well for Rawdon Crawley that Pitt was away at that dinner. Rawdon thanked his sister a hundred times, and with an ardour of gratitude which touched and almost alarmed that soft-hearted woman. ‘Oh,’ said he, in his rude, artless way, ‘you—you don’t know how I’m changed since I’ve known you, and—and little Rawdy. I—I’d like to change somehow. You see I want—I want—to be—‘ He did not finish the sentence, but she could interpret it. And that night after he left her, and as she sat by her own little boy’s bed, she prayed humbly for that poor way-worn sinner.
莫斯先生的帐单很快就结清了，也许令那位先生失望了，他本来指望至少在周日有上校作为他的客人；但是，他的帐单很快就结清了。简带着灿烂的笑容和幸福的眼神，把罗登从法警的家里抱了出来，然后他们乘坐出租车回家了，她赶紧把罗登释放了。 “皮特去参加议会晚宴了，”她说，“罗登的便条来了，所以，亲爱的罗登，我——我自己来了”；她把她善良的手放在他的手上。也许皮特不在参加那次晚餐对罗登·克劳利来说是件好事。罗登向他的妹妹表达了一百遍的感谢，他的感激之情感动了那个心软的女人，几乎让她惊慌失措。 “哦，”他用粗鲁、天真的方式说道，“你——你不知道自从认识你和——还有小罗迪以来，我发生了怎样的变化。”我——我想做出一些改变。你看，我想要——我想要——成为——”他没有把这句话说完，但她可以解释。那天晚上，在他离开她之后，当她坐在自己小男孩的床边时，她谦卑地为那个可怜的久经沙场的罪人祈祷。

Rawdon left her and walked home rapidly. It was nine o’clock at night. He ran across the streets and the great squares of Vanity Fair, and at length came up breathless opposite his own house. He started back and fell against the railings, trembling as he looked up. The drawing-room windows were blazing with light. She had said that she was in bed and ill. He stood there for some time, the light from the rooms on his pale face.
罗登离开了她，快步走回家。当时是晚上九点。他跑过街道和名利场的大广场，最后气喘吁吁地来到了自己家的对面。他猛地向后退去，摔倒在栏杆上，抬起头时浑身发抖。客厅的窗户透着明亮的光。她说她病了，躺在床上。他在那里站了一会儿，房间里的灯光照在他苍白的脸上。

He took out his door-key and let himself into the house. He could hear laughter in the upper rooms. He was in the ball-dress in which he had been captured the night before. He went silently up the stairs, leaning against the banisters at the stair-head. Nobody was stirring in the house besides—all the servants had been sent away. Rawdon heard laughter within—laughter and singing. Becky was singing a snatch of the song of the night before; a hoarse voice shouted ‘Brava! Brava!’—it was Lord Steyne’s.
他拿出门钥匙，进了屋。他能听到楼上房间里传来笑声。他穿着前一天晚上被捕时穿的舞会礼服。他靠在楼梯口的栏杆上，默默地走上楼梯。除此之外，屋子里没有人动静——所有的仆人都被打发走了。罗登听到里面有笑声——笑声和歌声。贝基正在唱前一天晚上歌曲的片段；一个沙哑的声音喊道：“太棒了！”太棒了！’——这是斯泰因勋爵的。

Rawdon opened the door and went in. A little table with a dinner was laid out—and wine and plate. Steyne was hanging over the sofa on which Becky sat. The wretched woman was in a brilliant full toilette, her arms and all her fingers sparkling with bracelets and rings, and the brilliants on her breast which Steyne had given her. He had her hand in his, and was bowing over it to kiss it, when Becky started up with a faint scream as she caught sight of Rawdon’s white face. At the next instant she tried a smile, a horrid smile, as if to welcome her husband; and Steyne rose up, grinding his teeth, pale, and with fury in his looks.
罗登打开门走了进去。一张小桌子上摆着晚餐——还有酒和盘子。斯泰恩正悬在贝基坐的沙发上。这个可怜的女人穿着一身华丽的盛装，她的手臂和所有手指上都戴着手镯和戒指，闪闪发光，胸前的宝石是斯泰因给她的。他握着她的手，正弯腰亲吻，这时贝基看到罗登苍白的脸，发出一声微弱的尖叫。下一瞬间，她尝试微笑，一种可怕的微笑，仿佛在欢迎她的丈夫。斯泰因站了起来，咬紧牙关，脸色苍白，神情愤怒。

He, too, attempted a laugh—and came forward holding out his hand. ‘What, come back! How d’ye do, Crawley?’ he said, the nerves of his mouth twitching as he tried to grin at the intruder.
他也想笑——然后向前伸出了手。 ‘什么，回来吧！ “你好吗，克劳利？”他问道，嘴角的神经抽搐着，试图对入侵者微笑。

There was that in Rawdon’s face which caused Becky to fling herself before him. ‘I am innocent, Rawdon,’ she said; ‘before God, I am innocent.’ She clung hold of his coat, of his hands; her own were all covered with serpents, and rings, and baubles. ‘I am innocent. Say I am innocent,’ she said to Lord Steyne.
罗登脸上的表情让贝基扑到他面前。 “我是无辜的，罗登，”她说。 “在上帝面前，我是无辜的。”她抓住他的外套，抓住他的手；她自己的衣服上都布满了蛇、戒指和小玩意。 '我是无辜的。说我是无辜的，”她对斯泰因勋爵说道。

He thought a trap had been laid for him, and was as furious with the wife as with the husband. ‘You innocent! Damn you,’ he screamed out. ‘You innocent! Why every trinket you have on your body is paid for by me. I have given you thousands of pounds, which this fellow has spent and for which he has sold you. Innocent, by —! You’re as innocent as your mother, the ballet-girl, and your husband the bully. Don’t think to frighten me as you have done others. Make way, sir, and let me pass”; and Lord Steyne seized up his hat, and, with flame in his eyes, and looking his enemy fiercely in the face, marched upon him, never for a moment doubting that the other would give way.
他以为有人为他设下圈套，因此对妻子和对丈夫一样愤怒。 ‘你是无辜的！该死的，”他尖叫道。 ‘你是无辜的！为什么你身上的每一件小饰品都是我花钱买的。我已经给了你几千英镑，这家伙已经花掉了，还把你卖了。无辜的，由——！你和你的母亲（芭蕾舞女演员）和你的丈夫（恶霸）一样天真。别想像你对别人那样吓唬我。让路，先生，让我过去”；斯泰因勋爵拿起帽子，眼睛里冒着火焰，凶狠地看着敌人的脸，向他走去，一刻也不怀疑对方会屈服。

But Rawdon Crawley springing out, seized him by the neckcloth, until Steyne, almost strangled, writhed and bent under his arm. ‘You lie, you dog!’ said Rawdon. ‘You lie, you coward and villain!’ And he struck the Peer twice over the face with his open hand and flung him bleeding to the ground. It was all done before Rebecca could interpose. She stood there trembling before him. She admired her husband, strong, brave, and victorious.
但罗登·克劳利跳了出来，抓住了他的领巾，直到几乎被勒死的斯泰因在他的腋下扭动和弯曲。 “你撒谎了，你这狗！”罗登说。 “你撒谎，你这个胆小鬼和恶棍！”他张开手掌，在贵族的脸上打了两拳，把他摔倒在地，血流不止。丽贝卡还没来得及插话，一切就完成了。她站在他面前瑟瑟发抖。她钦佩她的丈夫，坚强、勇敢、胜利。

‘Come here,’ he said. She came up at once.
“过来，”他说。她立刻就上来了。

‘Take off those things.’ She began, trembling, pulling the jewels from her arms, and the rings from her shaking fingers, and held them all in a heap, quivering and looking up at him. ‘Throw them down,’ he said, and she dropped them. He tore the diamond ornament out of her breast and flung it at Lord Steyne. It cut him on his bald forehead. Steyne wore the scar to his dying day.
“把那些东西脱掉。”她开始颤抖着，从手臂上拔下珠宝，从颤抖的手指上拔下戒指，把它们堆成一堆，颤抖着抬头看着他。 “把它们扔下去，”他说，她就把它们扔掉了。他从她胸前撕下钻石装饰品，扔向斯泰因勋爵。它割伤了他光秃秃的额头。斯泰因直到临终前都戴着这道伤疤。

‘Come upstairs,’ Rawdon said to his wife. ‘Don’t kill me, Rawdon,’ she said. He laughed savagely. ‘I want to see if that man lies about the money as he has about me. Has he given you any?’
“上楼来吧，”罗登对妻子说。 “别杀我，罗登，”她说。他狂笑起来。 “我想看看那个人是否在钱的问题上撒谎，就像他在我身上撒谎一样。他给过你吗？

‘No,’ said Rebecca, ‘that is—‘
“不，”丽贝卡说，“那是——”

‘Give me your keys,’ Rawdon answered, and they went out together.
“把你的钥匙给我。”罗登回答道，然后他们就一起出去了。

Rebecca gave him all the keys but one, and she was in hopes that he would not have remarked the absence of that. It belonged to the little desk which Amelia had given her in early days, and which she kept in a secret place. But Rawdon flung open boxes and wardrobes, throwing the multifarious trumpery of their contents here and there, and at last he found the desk. The woman was forced to open it. It contained papers, love-letters many years old—all sorts of small trinkets and woman’s memoranda. And it contained a pocket-book with bank-notes. Some of these were dated ten years back, too, and one was quite a fresh one—a note for a thousand pounds which Lord Steyne had given her.
丽贝卡给了他除了一把钥匙之外的所有钥匙，她希望他不会注意到没有钥匙。它属于阿米莉亚早年送给她的那张小桌子，她一直把它放在一个秘密的地方。但罗登猛地打开盒子和衣柜，把里面五花八门的东西扔得到处都是，最后他找到了桌子。女子被迫打开。里面有文件、多年前的情书——各种小饰品和女人的备忘录。里面有一个装着钞票的皮夹。其中一些也是十年前的，其中一张是很新的——一张一千英镑的钞票，是斯泰因勋爵给她的。

‘Did he give you this?’ Rawdon said.
“他给你这个了吗？”罗登说。

‘Yes,’ Rebecca answered.
“是的，”丽贝卡回答。

‘I’ll send it to him to-day,’ Rawdon said (for day had dawned again, and many hours had passed in this search), ‘and I will pay Briggs, who was kind to the boy, and some of the debts. You will let me know where I shall send the rest to you. You might have spared me a hundred pounds, Becky, out of all this—I have always shared with you.’
“今天我会把它寄给他，”罗登说（因为天又亮了，搜寻已经过去了好几个小时），“我会付钱给布里格斯，他对这个男孩很好，还有一些人。”债务。你会让我知道我把剩下的寄到哪里。贝基，你本可以从这一切中为我节省一百英镑——我一直与你分享。

‘I am innocent,’ said Becky. And he left her without another word.
“我是无辜的，”贝基说。然后他一言不发地离开了她。

What were her thoughts when he left her? She remained for hours after he was gone, the sunshine pouring into the room, and Rebecca sitting alone on the bed’s edge. The drawers were all opened and their contents scattered about—dresses and feathers, scarfs and trinkets, a heap of tumbled vanities lying in a wreck. Her hair was falling over her shoulders; her gown was torn where Rawdon had wrenched the brilliants out of it. She heard him go downstairs a few minutes after he left her, and the door slamming and closing on him. She knew he would never come back. He was gone forever. Would he kill himself?—she thought—not until after he had met Lord Steyne. She thought of her long past life, and all the dismal incidents of it. Ah, how dreary it seemed, how miserable, lonely and profitless! Should she take laudanum, and end it, to have done with all hopes, schemes, debts, and triumphs? The French maid found her in this position—sitting in the midst of her miserable ruins with clasped hands and dry eyes. The woman was her accomplice and in Steyne’s pay. ‘Mon Dieu, madame, what has happened?’ she asked.
当他离开她的时候，她心里是怎么想的？他走后，她在房间里待了几个小时，阳光倾泻进房间，丽贝卡独自坐在床边。抽屉全都打开了，里面的东西散落一地——衣服、羽毛、围巾和小饰品，还有一堆翻倒在地的梳妆台。她的头发披散在肩上。她的礼服被罗登从里面扯出的亮片撕破了。离开她几分钟后，她听到他下楼的声音，门砰地关上。她知道他永远不会回来了。他永远消失了。他会自杀吗？——她想——直到他遇见斯泰因勋爵之后。她想起了她漫长的前世，以及其中所有的悲惨事件。啊，那是多么的凄凉，多么的悲惨，多么的孤独，多么的无益啊！她是否应该服用鸦片酊并结束它，结束所有的希望、计划、债务和胜利？法国女仆发现她处于这个位置——坐在悲惨的废墟中，双手紧握，眼睛干涩。这个女人是她的同谋，也是斯泰因的雇佣者。 “我的天，夫人，发生了什么事？”她问道。

What had happened? Was she guilty or not? She said not, but who could tell what was truth which came from those lips, or if that corrupt heart was in this case pure?
发生了什么事情？她有罪还是无罪？她说没有，但谁能知道从那些嘴唇里说出的到底是什么真理，或者说，在这种情况下，那颗腐败的心是否是纯洁的呢？

All her lies and her schemes, an her selfishness and her wiles, all her wit and genius had come to this bankruptcy. The woman closed the curtains and, with some entreaty and show of kindness, persuaded her mistress to lie down on the bed. Then she went below and gathered up the trinkets which had been lying on the floor since Rebecca dropped them there at her husband’s orders, and Lord Steyne went away.
她所有的谎言、她的阴谋、她的自私、她的诡计、她所有的智慧和天才都到了破产的地步。女人拉上窗帘，以一番恳求和善意的态度，说服女主人躺在床上。然后她走到下面，把自从丽贝卡按照她丈夫的命令把它们扔到地板上以来就一直躺在地板上的小饰品捡起来，然后斯泰因勋爵就走了。

Chapter LIV
第 54 章


Sunday After the Battle
战斗后的周日

The mansion of Sir Pitt Crawley, in Great Gaunt Street, was just beginning to dress itself for the day, as Rawdon, in his evening costume, which he had now worn two days, passed by the scared female who was scouring the steps and entered into his brother’s study. Lady Jane, in her morning-gown, was up and above stairs in the nursery superintending the toilettes of her children and listening to the morning prayers which the little creatures performed at her knee. Every morning she and they performed this duty privately, and before the public ceremonial at which Sir Pitt presided and at which all the people of the household were expected to assemble. Rawdon sat down in the study before the Baronet’s table, set out with the orderly blue books and the letters, the neatly docketed bills and symmetrical pamphlets, the locked account-books, desks, and dispatch boxes, the Bible, the Quarterly Review, and the Court Guide, which all stood as if on parade awaiting the inspection of their chief.
位于大冈特街的皮特·克劳利爵士的宅邸刚刚开始为这一天打扮一番，罗登穿着他已经穿了两天的晚礼服，经过那位正在楼梯上搜寻的害怕的女人，走进去。进了哥哥的书房。简夫人穿着晨衣，在托儿所的楼梯上，监督孩子们的梳妆打扮，聆听孩子们在她膝下进行的晨祷。每天早上，她和他们都会私下履行这项职责，并在皮特爵士主持的公共仪式之前以及家里所有的人都应该聚集的情况下履行这一职责。罗登在男爵餐桌前的书房里坐下，摆出整齐有序的蓝皮书和信件、整齐排列的账单和对称的小册子、上锁的账簿、书桌和调度箱、《圣经》、《季刊评论》和宫廷指南，全都站在那里，仿佛列队等待着首领的检查。

A book of family sermons, one of which Sir Pitt was in the habit of administering to his family on Sunday mornings, lay ready on the study table, and awaiting his judicious selection. And by the sermon-book was the Observer newspaper, damp and neatly folded, and for Sir Pitt’s own private use. His gentleman alone took the opportunity of perusing the newspaper before he laid it by his master’s desk. Before he had brought it into the study that morning, he had read in the journal a flaming account of ‘Festivities at Gaunt House,’ with the names of all the distinguished personages invited by tho Marquis of Steyne to meet his Royal Highness. Having made comments upon this entertainment to the housekeeper and her niece as they were taking early tea and hot buttered toast in the former lady’s apartment, and wondered how the Rawding Crawleys could git on, the valet had damped and folded the paper once more, so that it looked quite fresh and innocent against the arrival of the master of the house.
一本家庭布道书放在书桌上，等待他明智的选择，皮特爵士习惯在周日早上给家人讲授其中一本。布道书旁边是《观察家报》，潮湿且折叠整齐，供皮特爵士私人使用。他的绅士独自一人仔细阅读了报纸，然后将其放在主人的办公桌旁。那天早上，在他把它带进书房之前，他在日记里读到了一篇关于“冈特宫的庆祝活动”的激烈报道，上面列出了斯泰因侯爵邀请来会见王子殿下的所有杰出人物的名字。当管家和她的侄女在前女士的公寓里喝早茶和热黄油吐司时，他们向管家和她的侄女评论了这场娱乐活动，并想知道罗丁·克劳利一家如何能继续下去，代客再次弄湿并折叠了纸，所以在主人到来的映衬下，它显得十分清新天真。

Poor Rawdon took up the paper and began to try and read it until his brother should arrive. But the print fell blank upon his eyes, and he did not know in the least what he was reading. The Government news and appointments (which Sir Pitt as a public man was bound to peruse, otherwise he would by no means permit the introduction of Sunday papers into his household), the theatrical criticisms, the fight for a hundred pounds a side between the Barking Butcher and the Tutbury Pet, the Gaunt House chronicle itself, which contained a most complimentary though guarded account of the famous charades of which Mrs. Becky had been the heroine—all these passed as in a haze before Rawdon, as he sat waiting the arrival of the chief of the family.
可怜的罗登拿起报纸，开始尝试阅读，直到他的兄弟到达。但印刷品在他眼前一片空白，他根本不知道自己在读什么。政府新闻和任命（皮特爵士作为一名公众人士必须仔细阅读，否则他决不会允许周日报纸进入他的家庭），戏剧批评，巴金家族之间为每人一百英镑而展开的斗争屠夫和塔特伯里宠物，冈特屋编年史本身，其中包含了对贝基夫人担任女主角的著名猜谜游戏的最赞美但最谨慎的描述——所有这些在罗登坐在那里等待到来时就像在阴霾中一样一家之长的。

Punctually, as the shrill-toned bell of the black marble study clock began to chime nine, Sir Pitt made his appearance, fresh, neat, smugly shaved, with a waxy clean face, and stiff shirt collar, his scanty hair combed and oiled, trimming his nails as he descended the stairs majestically, in a starched cravat and a grey flannel dressing-gown—a real old English gentleman, in a word—a model of neatness and every propriety. He started when he saw poor Rawdon in his study in tumbled clothes, with blood-shot eyes, and his hair over his face. He thought his brother was not sober, and had been out all night on some orgy. ‘Good gracious, Rawdon,’ he said, with a blank face, ‘what brings you here at this time of the morning? Why ain’t you at home?’
准时地，当黑色大理石学习钟的尖利铃声开始敲响九点时，皮特爵士出现了，他精神焕发，整洁，刮得胡子得意，有着蜡质干净的脸，硬挺的衬衫领子，稀少的头发梳理过，涂过油，他穿着浆洗过的领巾，穿着灰色法兰绒晨衣，威严地走下楼梯时修剪着指甲——总而言之，他是一位真正的英国老绅士——是整洁和礼仪的典范。当他看到可怜的罗登在书房里穿着破烂的衣服、眼睛布满血丝、头发遮住脸时，他吃了一惊。他认为他的兄弟没有清醒，整晚都在外面狂欢。 “天哪，罗登，”他面无表情地说，“早上这个时候是什么风把你吹到这里来的？你为什么不在家？

‘Home,’ said Rawdon with a wild laugh. ‘Don’t be frightened, Pitt. I’m not drunk. Shut the door; I want to speak to you.’
“回家了，”罗登狂笑道。 “别害怕，皮特。我没醉。关上门；我想和你说话。

Pitt closed the door and came up to the table, where he sat down in the other arm-chair—that one placed for the reception of the steward, agent, or confidential visitor who came to transact business with the Baronet—and trimmed his nails more vehemently than ever.
皮特关上门，走到桌边，在另一张扶手椅上坐下——这张扶手椅是用来接待前来与男爵做生意的管家、代理人或机密访客的——然后修剪了指甲比以往任何时候都更加激烈。

‘Pitt, it’s all over with me,’ the Colonel said after a pause. ‘I’m done.’
“皮特，我的一切都结束了，”上校停顿了一下后说道。 '我受够了。'

‘I always said it would come to this,’ the Baronet cried peevishly, and beating a tune with his clean-trimmed nails. ‘I warned you a thousand times. I can’t help you any more. Every shilling of my money is tied up. Even the hundred pounds that Jane took you last night were promised to my lawyer to-morrow morning, and the want of it will put me to great inconvenience. I don’t mean to say that I won’t assist you ultimately. But as for paying your creditors in full, I might as well hope to pay the National Debt. It is madness, sheer madness, to think of such a thing. You must come to a compromise. It’s a painful thing for the family, but everybody does it. There was George Kitely, Lord Ragland’s son, went through the Court last week, and was what they call whitewashed, I believe. Lord Ragland would not pay a shilling for him, and—‘
“我总是说事情会发展到这个地步。”准男爵脾气暴躁地喊道，一边用修剪整齐的指甲敲着曲子。 “我警告过你一千次了。我无法再帮助你了。我的每一先令钱都被绑起来了。就连简昨晚给你拿的一百英镑也已答应明天早上交给我的律师，缺少它会给我带来极大的不便。我并不是说我最终不会帮助你。但至于全额偿还你的债权人，我还不如偿还国债。想到这样的事情真是疯狂，纯粹的疯狂。你必须达成妥协。这对家庭来说是一件痛苦的事情，但每个人都会这样做。拉格兰勋爵的儿子乔治·凯特利上周出庭，我相信他就是所谓的“粉饰”。拉格兰勋爵不会为他支付一先令，而且——”

‘It’s not money I want,’ Rawdon broke in. ‘I’m not come to you about myself. Never mind what happens to me.’
“我想要的不是钱，”罗登插话道，“我来找你不是为了我自己。”别介意我会发生什么。

‘What is the matter, then?’ said Pitt, somewhat relieved.
“那么，到底是怎么回事呢？”皮特有些松了口气。

‘It’s the boy,’ said Rawdon in a husky voice. ‘I want you to promise me that you will take charge of him when I’m gone. That dear good wife of yours has always been good to him; and he’s fonder of her than he is of his …—Damn it. Look here, Pitt—you know that I was to have had Miss Crawley’s money. I wasn’t brought up like a younger brother, but was always encouraged to be extravagant and kep idle. But for this I might have been quite a different man. I didn’t do my duty with the regiment so bad. You know how I was thrown over about the money, and who got it.’
“是那个男孩，”罗登用沙哑的声音说道。 “我要你向我保证，当我离开后，你会照顾他。你那个亲爱的好妻子一直对他很好；而且他爱她胜过爱他的……该死的。听着，皮特——你知道我本来应该得到克劳利小姐的钱的。我没有像弟弟一样长大，但总是被鼓励要奢侈，要闲着。但就这一点而言，我可能已经是一个完全不同的人了。我在团里的职责并没有那么糟糕。你知道我是如何因为这笔钱而被抛弃的，也知道是谁得到了它。

‘After the sacrifices I have made, and the manner in which I have stood by you, I think this sort of reproach is useless,’ Sir Pitt said. ‘Your marriage was your own doing, not mine.’
皮特爵士说：“在我做出了牺牲以及我支持你们的方式之后，我认为这种责备是没有用的。” “你的婚姻是你自己造成的，不是我的。”

‘That’s over now,’ said Rawdon. ‘That’s over now.’ And the words were wrenched from him with a groan, which made his brother start.
“现在一切都结束了，”罗登说。 “现在一切都结束了。”他的呻吟声从他嘴里抽了出来，这让他的兄弟吃了一惊。

‘Good God! is she dead?’ Sir Pitt said with a voice of genuine alarm and commiseration.
‘天啊！她死了吗？”皮特爵士说道，语气中充满了真正的惊慌和同情。

‘I wish I was,’ Rawdon replied. ‘If it wasn’t for little Rawdon I’d have cut my throat this morning—and that damned villain’s too.’
“我希望我是，”罗登回答道。 “如果不是小罗登，我今天早上就会割断喉咙——还有那个该死的恶棍。”

Sir Pitt instantly guessed the truth and surmised that Lord Steyne was the person whose life Rawdon wished to take. The Colonel told his senior briefly, and in broken accents, the circumstances of the case. ‘It was a regular plan between that scoundrel and her,’ he said. ‘The bailiffs were put upon me; I was taken as I was going out of his house; when I wrote to her for money, she said she was ill in bed and put me off to another day. And when I got home I found her in diamonds and sitting with that villain alone.’ He then went on to describe hurriedly the personal conflict with Lord Steyne. To an affair of that nature, of course, he said, there was but one issue, and after his conference with his brother, he was going away to make the necessary arrangements for the meeting which must ensue. ‘And as it may end fatally with me,’ Rawdon said with a broken voice, ‘and as the boy has no mother, I must leave him to you and Jane, Pitt—only it will be a comfort to me if you will promise me to be his friend.’
皮特爵士立即猜出了真相，并推测斯泰因勋爵就是罗顿想要取走的人。上校用断断续续的口音向他的长官简短地讲述了案件的情况。 “这是那个恶棍和她之间的常规计划，”他说。 “法警派来对付我；当我走出他家时，我被带走了；当我写信给她要钱时，她说她病在床上，并把我推迟到另一天。当我回到家时，我发现她戴着钻石，独自和那个恶棍坐在一起。”然后他继续匆忙地描述了与斯泰因勋爵的个人冲突。当然，对于这种性质的事情，他说，只有一个问题，在与他的兄弟开完会后，他要离开去为随后必须举行的会议做必要的安排。 “这对我来说可能是致命的结局，”罗登用破碎的声音说道，“而且这个男孩没有母亲，我必须把他留给你和简，皮特——只是如果你答应的话，这对我来说将是一种安慰我成为他的朋友。

The elder brother was much affected, and shook Rawdon’s hand with a cordiality seldom exhibited by him. Rawdon passed his hand over his shaggy eyebrows. ‘Thank you, brother,’ said he. ‘I know I can trust your word.’
哥哥深受感动，他以罕见的热情与罗登握手。罗登把手放在他蓬乱的眉毛上。 “谢谢你，兄弟，”他说。 “我知道我可以相信你的话。”

‘I will, upon my honour,’ the Baronet said. And thus, and almost mutely, this bargain was struck between them.
“以我的名誉担保，我愿意。”从男爵说道。就这样，他们之间几乎无声无息地达成了这笔交易。

Then Rawdon took out of his pocket the little pocket-book which he had discovered in Becky’s desk, and from which he drew a bundle of the notes which it contained. ‘Here’s six hundred,’ he said—‘you didn’t know I was so rich. I want you to give the money to Briggs, who lent it to us—and who was kind to the boy—and I’ve always felt ashamed of having taken the poor old woman’s money. And here’s some more—I’ve only kept back a few pounds—which Becky may as well have, to get on with.’ As he spoke he took hold of the other notes to give to his brother, but his hands shook, and he was so agitated that the pocket-book fell from him, and out of it the thousand-pound note which had been the last of the unlucky Becky’s winnings.
然后罗登从口袋里掏出他在贝基桌子上发现的小皮夹，从里面取出一捆里面的笔记。 “这是六百，”他说——“你不知道我这么富有。”我希望你把钱交给布里格斯，他借给了我们——而且他对这个男孩很好——而我一直为拿了那个可怜的老妇人的钱而感到羞愧。还有一些——我只留了几磅——贝基也可以有，以便继续使用。”一边说着，他一边拿起其他纸条交给他的兄弟，但他的手颤抖着，他太激动了，钱包从他身上掉了下来，里面有一张一千英镑的钞票，这是不幸的贝基最后一次赢得的奖金。

Pitt stooped and picked them up, amazed at so much wealth. ‘Not that,’ Rawdon said. ‘I hope to put a bullet into the man whom that belongs to.’ He had thought to himself, it would be a fine revenge to wrap a ball in the note and kill Steyne with it.
皮特弯腰把它们捡起来，对如此多的财富感到惊讶。 “不是那样的，”罗登说。 “我希望将一颗子弹射入那个属于它的人身上。”他心想，在纸条里包一个球并用它杀死斯泰因，这将是一次很好的报复。

After this colloquy the brothers once more shook hands and parted. Lady Jane had heard of the Colonel’s arrival, and was waiting for her husband in the adjoining dining-room, with female instinct, auguring evil. The door of the dining-room happened to be left open, and the lady of course was issuing from it as the two brothers passed out of the study. She held out her hand to Rawdon and said she was glad he was come to breakfast, though she could perceive, by his haggard unshorn face and the dark looks of her husband, that there was very little question of breakfast between them. Rawdon muttered some excuses about an engagement, squeezing hard the timid little hand which his sister-in-law reached out to him. Her imploring eyes could read nothing but calamity in his face, but he went away without another word. Nor did Sir Pitt vouchsafe her any explanation. The children came up to salute him, and he kissed them in his usual frigid manner. The mother took both of them close to herself, and held a hand of each of them as they knelt down to prayers, which Sir Pitt read to them, and to the servants in their Sunday suits or liveries, ranged upon chairs on the other side of the hissing tea-urn. Breakfast was so late that day, in consequence of the delays which had occurred, that the church-bells began to ring whilst they were sitting over their meal; and Lady Jane was too ill, she said, to go to church, though her thoughts had been entirely astray during the period of family devotion.
谈话结束后，兄弟俩再次握手告别。简女士听说了上校的到来，正在隔壁的餐厅里等待她的丈夫，女性的本能预示着邪恶的到来。餐厅的门恰好开着，当两兄弟走出书房时，那位女士当然从门里走了出来。她向罗登伸出手，说她很高兴他能来吃早餐，不过从他未剃须的憔悴脸和她丈夫黝黑的表情中她可以看出，他们之间几乎不存在吃早餐的问题。罗登嘟哝着一些关于订婚的借口，用力握着他嫂子向他伸出的胆怯的小手。她恳求的眼神在他脸上只能看出灾难，但他一言不发地走了。皮特爵士也没有向她提供任何解释。孩子们走过来向他行礼，他以一贯的冷漠态度亲吻了他们。母亲把他们俩抱得很近，在他们跪下来祈祷时，握住他们每个人的手，皮特爵士念给他们听，也念给坐在另一边椅子上穿着周日套装或制服的仆人们听。嘶嘶作响的茶瓮。那天早餐很晚，由于发生了延误，教堂的钟声在他们坐着吃饭的时候就开始敲响了。她说，简夫人病得太重了，无法去教堂，尽管在家庭祈祷期间她的思想完全误入歧途。

Rawdon Crawley meanwhile hurried on from Great Gaunt Street, and knocking at the great bronze Medusa’s head which stands on the portal of Gaunt House, brought out the purple Silenus in a red and silver waistcoat who acts as porter of that palace. The man was scared also by the Colonel’s dishevelled appearance, and barred the way as if afraid that the other was going to force it. But Colonel Crawley only took out a card and enjoined him particularly to send it in to Lord Steyne, and to mark the address written on it, and say that Colonel Crawley would be all day after one o’clock at the Regent Club in St. James’s Street—not at home. The fat red-faced man looked after him with astonishment as he strode away; so did the people in their Sunday clothes who were out so early; the charityboys with shining faces, the greengrocer lolling at his door, and the publican shutting his shutters in the sunshine, against service commenced. The people joked at the cab-stand about his appearance, as he took a carriage there, and told the driver to drive him to Knightsbridge Barracks.
与此同时，罗登·克劳利从大冈特街匆匆赶来，敲响了冈特宫大门上巨大的青铜美杜莎头像，带出了身着红银背心的紫色西勒诺斯，他是这座宫殿的看门人。那人也被上校凌乱的样子吓到了，挡住了去路，仿佛生怕对方强行闯过去。但克劳利上校只是拿出一张卡片，嘱咐他特别寄给斯泰因勋爵，并标记上面写的地址，并说克劳利上校将在圣路易斯的摄政俱乐部度过一整天的时间。詹姆斯街——不在家。当他大步走开时，红脸胖子惊讶地看着他。那些穿着周日服装这么早出门的人也是如此。慈善家们脸上闪闪发亮，蔬菜水果商懒洋洋地站在门口，酒馆老板在阳光下关上百叶窗，等待服务开始。当他乘一辆马车到出租车站时，人们在出租车站取笑他的外表，并告诉司机开车送他去骑士桥军营。

All the bells were jangling and tolling as he reached that place. He might have seen his old acquaintance Amelia on her way from Brompton to Russell Square, had he been looking out. Troops of schools were on their march to church, the shiny pavement and outsides of coaches in the suburbs were thronged with people out upon their Sunday pleasure; but the Colonel was much too busy to take any heed of these phenomena, and, arriving at Knightsbridge, speedily made his way up to the room of his old friend and comrade Captain Macmurdo, who Crawley found, to his satisfaction, was in barracks.
当他到达那个地方时，所有的钟声都叮当作响。如果他向外看的话，他可能会在从布朗普顿去罗素广场的路上看到他的老熟人阿米莉亚。学校的队伍正向教堂进军，郊区闪亮的人行道和马车外面挤满了出去享受周日快乐的人们；但上校太忙了，无暇顾及这些现象，到达骑士桥后，他迅速前往他的老朋友兼战友麦克默多上尉的房间，克劳利满意地发现麦克默多上尉就在军营里。

Captain Macmurdo, a veteran officer and Waterloo man, greatly liked by his regiment, in which want of money alone prevented him from attaining the highest ranks, was enjoying the forenoon calmly in bed. He had been at a fast supper-party, given the night before by Captain the Honourable George Cinqbars, at his house in Brompton Square, to several young men of the regiment, and a number of ladies of the corps de ballet, and old Mac, who was at home with people of all ages and ranks, and consorted with generals, dog-fanciers, opera-dancers, bruisers, and every kind of person, in a word, was resting himself after the night’s labours, and, not being on duty, was in bed.
麦克默多上尉是一位经验丰富的军官，也是滑铁卢人，深受他所在团的喜爱，但由于缺乏金钱，他无法获得最高军衔。麦克默多上尉正在床上平静地享受着上午的时光。他参加了前一天晚上在布朗普顿广场的家中由尊敬的乔治·辛克巴尔上尉为团里的几位年轻人、芭蕾舞团的几位女士和老麦克举办的一场快速晚宴。他与各个年龄段、各个阶层的人都相处得很融洽，与将军、养狗者、歌剧舞者、拳击手以及各种各样的人交往，总之，他在晚上的劳作之后正在休息，而且，不值班时，正在床上。

His room was hung round with boxing, sporting, and dancing pictures, presented to him by comrades as they retired from the regiment, and married and settled into quiet life. And as he was now nearly fifty years of age, twenty-four of which he had passed in the corps, he had a singular museum. He was one of the best shots in England, and, for a heavy man, one of the best riders; indeed, he and Crawley had been rivals when the latter was in the Army. To be brief, Mr. Macmurdo was lying in bed, reading in Bell’s Life an account of that very fight between the Tutbury Pet and the Barking Butcher, which has been before mentioned—a venerable bristly warrior, with a little close-shaved grey head, with a silk nightcap, a red face and nose, and a great dyed moustache.
他的房间里挂满了拳击、体育和舞蹈的照片，这些照片是战友们从部队退役、结婚并过上平静生活时送给他的。他现在已经快五十岁了，其中二十四岁是在部队度过的，所以他有一个独特的博物馆。他是英格兰最好的击球手之一，对于一个大重量的人来说，他也是最好的骑手之一。事实上，当克劳利还在军队时，他和克劳利就一直是竞争对手。简言之，麦克默多先生躺在床上，读着《贝尔的一生》中有关塔特伯里宠物和吠叫屠夫之间那场战斗的记述，之前已经提到过——一位令人尊敬的硬毛战士，有着一个剃得很短的灰色头发。戴着丝绸睡帽，红着脸和鼻子，留着染过的大胡子。

When Rawdon told the Captain he wanted a friend, the latter knew perfectly well on what duty of friendship he was called to act, and indeed had conducted scores of affairs for his acquaintances with the greatest prudence and skill. His Royal Highness the late lamented Commander-in-Chief had had the greatest regard for Macmurdo on this account, and he was the common refuge of gentlemen in trouble.
当罗登告诉船长他想要一个朋友时，船长非常清楚他被要求履行什么友谊义务，并且确实以最大的谨慎和技巧为他的熟人办理了许多事务。已故的总司令殿下因此对麦克默多怀有最大的敬意，他是陷入困境的绅士们共同的避难所。

‘What’s the row about, Crawley, my boy?’ said the old warrior. ‘No more gambling business, hay, like that when we shot Captain Marker?’
“怎么了，克劳利，我的孩子？”老战士说道。 “不再有赌博生意了，干草，就像我们射杀马克船长时那样？”

‘It’s about—about my wife,’ Crawley answered, casting down his eyes and turning very red.
“是关于——关于我的妻子的，”克劳利回答道，他垂下眼睛，脸涨得通红。

The other gave a whistle. ‘I always said she’d throw you over,’ he began—indeed there were bets in the regiment and at the clubs regarding the probable fate of Colonel Crawley, so lightly was his wife’s character esteemed by his comrades and the world; but seeing the savage look with which Rawdon answered the expression of this opinion, Macmurdo did not think fit to enlarge upon it further.
另一个人吹了一声口哨。 “我总是说她会把你扔掉，”他开始说道——确实，在团里和俱乐部里有人对克劳利上校可能的命运打赌，他妻子的品格受到他的战友和全世界的尊重，他的妻子的品格是如此轻视。但看到罗登回答这一观点时的野蛮表情，麦克默多认为不宜进一步阐述。

‘Is there no way out of it, old boy?’ the Captain continued in a grave tone. ‘Is it only suspicion, you know, or—or what is it? Any letters? Can’t you keep it quiet? Best not make any noise about a thing of that sort if you can help it.’ ‘Think of his only finding her out now,’ the Captain thought to himself, and remembered a hundred particular conversations at the mess-table, in which Mrs. Crawley’s reputation had been torn to shreds.
“老伙计，难道就没有办法了吗？”船长语气严肃地继续说道。 “你知道，这只是怀疑，还是——或者是什么？”有字母吗？你就不能保持安静吗？如果你能控制的话，最好不要对这类事情发出任何声音。”“想想他现在才发现她，”船长心里想，并记住了餐桌上的一百个特殊对话，其中夫人克劳利的声誉已经被撕得粉碎。

‘There’s no way but one out of it,’ Rawdon replied—‘and there’s only a way out of it for one of us, Mac—do you understand? I was put out of the way—arrested—I found ‘em alone together. I told him he was a liar and a coward, and knocked him down and thrashed him.’
“除了一条出路之外，别无他法，”罗登回答道——“对于我们中的一个人来说，只有一条出路，麦克——你明白吗？”我被赶走了——被捕——我发现他们单独在一起。我告诉他他是个骗子和胆小鬼，然后把他打倒并殴打他。

‘Serve him right,’ Macmurdo said. ‘Who is it?’
“为他服务是对的，”麦克默多说。 '是谁？'

Rawdon answered it was Lord Steyne.
罗登回答说是斯泰因勋爵。

‘The deuce! a Marquis! they said he—that is, they said you—‘
‘平局！侯爵！他们说他——也就是说，他们说你——”

‘What the devil do you mean?’ roared out Rawdon; ‘do you mean that you ever heard a fellow doubt about my wife and didn’t tell me, Mac?’
“你到底是什么意思？”罗登吼道。 “你的意思是，你曾经听说过有人怀疑我的妻子，但没有告诉我，麦克？”

‘The world’s very censorious, old boy,’ the other replied. ‘What the deuce was the good of my telling you what any tom-fools talked about?’
“这个世界是非常挑剔的，老伙计，”另一个回答道。 “我告诉你那些蠢货的言论到底有什么好处？”

‘It was damned unfriendly, Mac,’ said Rawdon, quite overcome; and, covering his face with his hands, he gave way to an emotion, the sight of which caused the tough old campaigner opposite him to wince with sympathy. ‘Hold up, old boy,’ he said; ‘great man or not, we’ll put a bullet in him, damn him. As for women, they’re all so.’
“这真是太不友好了，麦克，”罗登说，他完全被征服了。他用手捂住脸，情绪激动起来，对面那个强硬的老活动家看到这种情绪，同情地皱起了眉头。 “坚持住，老伙计，”他说。 “不管他是不是伟大的人，我们都会对他开一枪，该死的。”至于女人，都是如此。

‘You don’t know how fond I was of that one,’ Rawdon said, halfinarticulately. ‘Damme, I followed her like a footman. I gave up everything I had to her. I’m a beggar because I would marry her. By Jove, sir, I’ve pawned my own watch in order to get her anything she fancied; and she she’s been making a purse for herself all the time, and grudged me a hundred pound to get me out of quod.’ He then fiercely and incoherently, and with an agitation under which his counsellor had never before seen him labour, told Macmurdo the circumstances of the story. His adviser caught at some stray hints in it. ‘She may be innocent, after all,’ he said. ‘She says so. Steyne has been a hundred times alone with her in the house before.’
“你不知道我有多喜欢那个，”罗登含糊地说。 “妈的，我像个男仆一样跟着她。我为她放弃了我所拥有的一切。我是一个乞丐，因为我要娶她。天哪，先生，我典当了自己的手表，以便为她得到她想要的任何东西；她一直在为自己做钱包，为了让我摆脱困境，她对我付出了一百英镑的怨恨。”然后，他语无伦次、语无伦次地告诉麦克默多，他的激动程度是他的顾问从未见过的。故事的情节。他的顾问发现了其中的一些零星暗示。 “毕竟她可能是无辜的，”他说。 ‘她是这么说的。斯泰因之前已经和她单独在家里呆过一百次了。”

‘It may be so,’ Rawdon answered sadly, ‘but this don’t look very innocent”: and he showed the Captain the thousand-pound note which he had found in Becky’s pocket-book. ‘This is what he gave her, Mac, and she kep it unknown to me; and with this money in the house, she refused to stand by me when I was locked up.’ The Captain could not but own that the secreting of the money had a very ugly look.
“也许是这样，”罗登悲伤地回答，“但这看起来不太无辜。”他向船长展示了他在贝基的皮夹里找到的那​​张一千英镑的钞票。 “这就是他给她的，麦克，但她却不让我知道；有了这些钱，她就拒绝在我被关起来的时候站在我这边。”上尉不得不承认，藏匿这些钱的样子非常难看。

Whilst they were engaged in their conference, Rawdon dispatched Captain Macmurdo’s servant to Curzon Street, with an order to the domestic there to give up a bag of clothes of which the Colonel had great need. And during the man’s absence, and with great labour and a Johnson’s Dictionary, which stood them in much stead, Rawdon and his second composed a letter, which the latter was to send to Lord Steyne. Captain Macmurdo had the honour of waiting upon the Marquis of Steyne, on the part of Colonel Rawdon Crawley, and begged to intimate that he was empowered by the Colonel to make any arrangements for the meeting which, he had no doubt, it was his Lordship’s intention to demand, and which the circumstances of the morning had rendered inevitable. Captain Macmurdo begged Lord Steyne, in the most polite manner, to appoint a friend, with whom he (Captain M.M.) might communicate, and desired that the meeting might take place with as little delay as possible.
当他们在开会的时候，罗登派遣麦克默多上尉的仆人到寇松街，命令那里的仆人交出上校非常需要的一袋衣服。在这个人不在期间，罗顿和他的副手费了很大的力气，用一本对他们很有帮助的约翰逊词典写了一封信，后者将把这封信寄给斯泰因勋爵。麦克默多上尉有幸代表罗顿·克劳利上校接待了斯泰恩侯爵，并恳求他转达上校的授权，他可以为这次会议做出任何安排，他毫不怀疑，这是他的勋爵的安排。想要提出要求，而早上的情况使这个要求变得不可避免。麦克默多船长以最有礼貌的方式恳求斯泰因勋爵指定一位朋友，以便他（M.M.船长）可以与他沟通，并希望会议能够尽可能少地拖延。

In a postscript the Captain stated that he had in his possession a bank-note for a large amount, which Colonel Crawley had reason to suppose was the property of the Marquis of Steyne. And he was anxious, on the Colonel’s behalf, to give up the note to its owner.
上尉在附记中表示，他拥有一张大额钞票，克劳利上校有理由认为这是斯泰因侯爵的财产。他代表上校急于将这张纸条交给它的主人。

By the time this note was composed, the Captain’s servant returned from his mission to Colonel Crawley’s house in Curzon Street, but without the carpet-bag and portmanteau, for which he had been sent, and with a very puzzled and odd face.
当写下这张便条时，上尉的仆人从他的任务回到克劳利上校位于柯松街的家，但没有带他派去拿的地毯袋和手提包，而且脸上带着非常困惑和奇怪的表情。

‘They won’t give ‘em up,’ said the man; ‘there’s a regular shinty in the house, and everything at sixes and sevens. The landlord’s come in and took possession. The servants was a drinkin’ up in the drawingroom. They said—they said you had gone off with the plate, Colonel’—the man added after a pause—‘One of the servants is off already. And Simpson, the man as was very noisy and drunk indeed, says nothing shall go out of the house until his wages is paid up.’
“他们不会放弃，”那人说道。 “房子里有一个定期的小房间，一切都乱七八糟。房东进来并占有了它。仆人们正在客厅里喝酒。他们说——他们说你已经拿着盘子走了，上校”——那人停顿了一下后又补充道——“其中一个仆人已经走了。辛普森这个人确实很吵闹，喝醉了，他说，在他的工资付清之前，任何人都不能走出家门。

The account of this little revolution in May Fair astonished and gave a little gaiety to an otherwise very triste conversation. The two officers laughed at Rawdon’s discomfiture.
《五月集》中对这场小革命的描述令人震惊，也给原本平淡的谈话增添了一丝欢乐。两名警官嘲笑罗登的狼狈。

‘I’m glad the little ‘un isn’t at home,’ Rawdon said, biting his nails. ‘You remember him, Mac, don’t you, in the Riding School? How he sat the kicker to be sure! didn’t he?’
“我很高兴这个小家伙不在家，”罗登咬着指甲说道。 “你记得他，麦克，不是吗，在骑术学校？他是如何坐在踢球者身上的！不是吗？

‘That he did, old boy,’ said the good-natured Captain.
“他做到了，老伙计，”好心的船长说道。

Little Rawdon was then sitting, one of fifty gown boys, in the Chapel of Whitefriars School, thinking, not about the sermon, but about going home next Saturday, when his father would certainly tip him and perhaps would take him to the play.
当时，小罗登是五十名礼服男孩之一，坐在怀特修士学校教堂里，思考的不是布道，而是下周六回家，那时他的父亲肯定会给他小费，也许会带他去看戏。

‘He’s a regular trump, that boy,’ the father went on, still musing about his son. ‘I say, Mac, if anything goes wrong—if I drop—I should like you to—to go and see him, you know, and say that I was very fond of him, and that. And—dash it—old chap, give him these gold sleeve-buttons: it’s all I’ve got.’ He covered his face with his black hands, over which the tears rolled and made furrows of white. Mr. Macmurdo had also occasion to take off his silk nightcap and rub it across his eyes.
“那个男孩，他是个常胜将军，”父亲继续说道，仍然在思考他的儿子。 “我说，麦克，如果出了什么问题——如果我摔倒了——我希望你能去看看他，你知道，然后说我非常喜欢他，诸如此类。”还有——哎呀——老家伙，给他这些金色的袖子纽扣吧：这就是我的全部了。”他用黑色的手捂住脸，泪水在手上滚落，留下一道道白色的皱纹。麦克默多先生也有机会摘下丝绸睡帽，擦在眼睛上。

‘Go down and order some breakfast,’ he said to his man in a loud cheerful voice. ‘What’ll you have, Crawley? Some devilled kidneys and a herring—let’s say. And, Clay, lay out some dressing things for the Colonel: we were always pretty much of a size, Rawdon, my boy, and neither of us ride so light as we did when we first entered the corps.’ With which, and leaving the Colonel to dress himself, Macmurdo turned round towards the wall, and resumed the perusal of Bell’s Life, until such time as his friend’s toilette was complete and he was at liberty to commence his own.
“下去点早餐吧。”他用欢快的声音对他的手下说。 “你想要什么，克劳利？比如说，一些芥末肾和一条鲱鱼。还有，克莱，给上校准备一些穿衣用品：罗登，我的孩子，我们的身材一直都差不多，而且我们俩都不像刚进入军团时那样骑得那么轻。”说着，就离开了。当上校穿好衣服后，麦克默多转身面向墙壁，继续细读《贝尔的一生》，直到他的朋友洗漱完毕，他才可以开始自己的梳妆打扮。

This, as he was about to meet a lord, Captain Macmurdo performed with particular care. He waxed his mustachios into a state of brilliant polish and put on a tight cravat and a trim buff waistcoat, so that all the young officers in the mess-room, whither Crawley had preceded his friend, complimented Mac on his appearance at breakfast and asked if he was going to be married that Sunday.
由于麦克默多船长即将会见一位领主，所以他表现得特别小心。他把小胡子打蜡得光亮，然后系上一条紧身领结，穿上一件修身的浅黄色马甲，克劳利先于他的朋友来到了餐厅，所有的年轻军官都称赞麦克在早餐时的仪表，并询问他的表现。如果他要在那个星期天结婚的话。

Chapter LV
第五章


In Which the Same Subject is Pursued
追求同一主题

Becky did not rally from the state of stupor and confusion in which the events of the previous night had plunged her intrepid spirit until the bells of the Curzon Street Chapels were ringing for afternoon service, and rising from her bed she began to ply her own bell, in order to summon the French maid who had left her some hours before.
贝基还没有从昏迷和混乱的状态中恢复过来，前一天晚上的事件使她勇敢的精神陷入了困境，直到柯曾街教堂下午礼拜的钟声响起，她从床上起来，开始按自己的钟声。 ，为了召唤几个小时前离开她的法国女仆。

Mrs. Rawdon Crawley rang many times in vain; and though, on the last occasion, she rang with such vehemence as to pull down the bellrope, Mademoiselle Fifine did not make her appearance—no, not though her mistress, in a great pet, and with the bell-rope in her hand, came out to the landing-place with her hair over her shoulders and screamed out repeatedly for her attendant.
罗登·克劳利夫人按了很多次电话，但都没有结果。尽管最后一次，她用力拉响铃绳，菲芬小姐并没有露面——不，虽然她的女主人，穿着一只大宠物，手里拿着铃绳，她的头发披在肩上，来到了着陆点，不断地呼喊着她的服务员。

The truth is, she had quitted the premises for many hours, and upon that permission which is called French leave among us After picking up the trinkets in the drawing-room, Mademoiselle had ascended to her own apartments, packed and corded her own boxes there, tripped out and called a cab for herself, brought down her trunks with her own hand, and without ever so much as asking the aid of any of the other servants, who would probably have refused it, as they hated her cordially, and without wishing any one of them good-bye, had made her exit from Curzon Street.
事实是，她已经离开这栋房子好几个小时了，在我们允许的情况下，这被称为“法国休假”。在客厅里捡起​​小饰品后，小姐登上了自己的公寓，在那里收拾好自己的箱子，并用绳子系好。她绊倒了出去，为自己叫了一辆出租车，亲手把行李箱拿了下来，甚至没有向其他仆人寻求帮助，而其他仆人很可能会拒绝，因为他们真诚地恨她，而且没有任何其他仆人的帮助。她向他们中的任何一个人道别，然后离开了柯曾街。

The game, in her opinion, was over in that little domestic establishment. Fifine went off in a cab, as we have known more exalted persons of her nation to do under similar circumstances: but, more provident or lucky than these, she secured not only her own property, but some of her mistress’s (if indeed that lady could be said to have any property at all)—and not only carried off the trinkets before alluded to, and some favourite dresses on which she had long kept her eye, but four richly gilt Louis Quatorze candlesticks, six gilt albums, keepsakes, and Books of Beauty, a gold enamelled snuff-box which had once belonged to Madame du Barri, and the sweetest little inkstand and mother-of-pearl blotting book, which Becky used when she composed her charming little pink notes, had vanished from the premises in Curzon Street together with Mademoiselle Fifine, and all the silver laid on the table for the little festin which Rawdon interrupted. The plated ware Mademoiselle left behind her was too cumbrous, probably for which reason, no doubt, she also left the fire irons, the chimney-glasses, and the rosewood cottage piano.
在她看来，在这个小小的家庭机构里，游戏已经结束了。菲芬乘出租车离开了，我们知道她的国家中有更多的尊贵人士在类似的情况下会这样做：但是，比这些更有远见或幸运的是，她不仅保护了自己的财产，还保护了她情妇的一些财产（如果确实是那位女士的话）可以说她根本没有任何财产）——不仅带走了之前提到的小饰品和一些她长期以来一直关注的最喜欢的衣服，还有四个镀金的路易·奎托兹烛台，六本镀金专辑，纪念品和《美丽之书》，一个曾经属于杜巴里夫人的金色珐琅鼻烟盒，以及贝基在写下迷人的粉红色小音符时使用的最可爱的小墨水瓶和珍珠母吸墨本，都已经从房间里消失了。和菲芬小姐一起在柯松街，所有的银子都放在桌子上，供罗登打断的小宴会。小姐留下的镀器太笨重了，大概是因为这个原因，她也留下了火熨斗、烟囱玻璃和红木小屋钢琴。

A lady very like her subsequently kept a milliner’s shop in the Rue du Helder at Paris, where she lived with great credit and enjoyed the patronage of my Lord Steyne. This person always spoke of England as of the most treacherous country in the world, and stated to her young pupils that she had been affreusement vole by natives of that island. It was no doubt compassion for her misfortunes which induced the Marquis of Steyne to be so very kind to Madame de Saint-Amaranthe. May she flourish as she deserves—she appears no more in our quarter of Vanity Fair.
一位非常像她的女士后来在巴黎的杜赫尔德路开了一家女帽店，在那里她享有很高的声誉，并得到了斯泰因勋爵的赞助。这个人总是说英国是世界上最危险的国家，并对她年轻的学生说，她是那个岛上当地人喜爱的田鼠。毫无疑问，正是出于对她不幸遭遇的同情，斯泰因侯爵才对圣阿玛兰特夫人如此仁慈。愿她如她应得的那样蓬勃发展——她不再出现在我们的《名利场》杂志上。

Hearing a buzz and a stir below, and indignant at the impudence of those servants who would not answer her summons, Mrs. Crawley flung her morning robe round her and descended majestically to the drawing-room, whence the noise proceeded.
听到下面有嗡嗡声和骚动声，克劳利夫人对那些不肯回应她召唤的仆人的厚颜无耻感到愤慨，她把晨袍披在身上，威严地下楼到客厅，噪音就是从那里开始的。

The cook was there with blackened face, seated on the beautiful chintz sofa by the side of Mrs. Raggles, to whom she was administering Maraschino. The page with the sugar-loaf buttons, who carried about Becky’s pink notes, and jumped about her little carriage with such alacrity, was now engaged putting his fingers into a cream dish; the footman was talking to Raggles, who had a face full of perplexity and woe—and yet, though the door was open, and Becky had been screaming a half-dozen of times a few feet off, not one of her attendants had obeyed her call. ‘Have a little drop, do’ee now, Mrs. Raggles,’ the cook was saying as Becky entered, the white cashmere dressing-gown flouncing around her.
厨师脸色黑黑地坐在那儿，坐在漂亮的印花棉布沙发上，旁边是拉格斯太太，她正在给她喂马拉斯​​基诺酒。那个戴着糖面包纽扣的侍者，带着贝基的粉色便条，在她的小马车上如此敏捷地跳来跳去，现在正忙着把手指伸进一个奶油盘里；男仆正在和拉格斯说话，拉格斯脸上写满了困惑和悲伤——然而，尽管门开着，贝基已经在几英尺外尖叫了六次，但没有一个侍从听从她的命令。称呼。 “现在喝一点吧，拉格斯太太，”当贝基走进来时，厨师说道，白色的羊绒晨衣在她身上飘扬。

‘Simpson! Trotter!’ the mistress of the house cried in great wrath. ‘How dare you stay here when you heard me call? How dare you sit down in my presence? Where’s my maid?’ The page withdrew his fingers from his mouth with a momentary terror, but the cook took off a glass of Maraschino, of which Mrs. Raggles had had enough, staring at Becky over the little gilt glass as she drained its contents. The liquor appeared to give the odious rebel courage.
‘辛普森！快跑！”女主人愤怒地喊道。 ‘听到我叫你，你还敢留在这里吗？你怎么敢在我面前坐下？我的女仆在哪儿？”侍者一时惊恐地把手指从嘴里缩了回来，但厨师拿起一杯黑樱桃酒，拉格斯太太已经喝够了，她在喝干里面的东西时，透过镀金小玻璃杯盯着贝基。 。酒似乎给了可恶的叛乱者勇气。

‘YOUR sofy, indeed!’ Mrs. Cook said. ‘I’m a settin’ on Mrs. Raggles’s sofy. Don’t you stir, Mrs. Raggles, Mum. I’m a settin’ on Mr. and Mrs. Raggles’s sofy, which they bought with honest money, and very dear it cost ‘em, too. And I’m thinkin’ if I set here until I’m paid my wages, I shall set a precious long time, Mrs. Raggles; and set I will, too—ha! ha!’ and with this she filled herself another glass of the liquor and drank it with a more hideously satirical air.
“确实是你的苏菲！”库克夫人说。 “我坐在拉格斯夫人的沙发上。”别动，拉格斯太太，妈妈。我对拉格斯先生和夫人的苏菲很感兴趣，他们用诚实的钱买的，而且他们也花了很多钱。我在想，如果我留在这里直到发工资，我会留出一段宝贵的很长的时间，拉格斯太太；我也会——哈！哈！”说完，她又给自己倒了一杯酒，带着更加可怕的讽刺意味喝了下去。

‘Trotter! Simpson! turn that drunken wretch out,’ screamed Mrs. Crawley.
‘特罗特！辛普森！ “把那个醉酒的坏蛋赶出去，”克劳利夫人尖叫道。

‘I shawn’t,’ said Trotter the footman; ‘turn out yourself. Pay our selleries, and turn me out too. WE’LL go fast enough.’
“我没有，”男仆特罗特说。 ‘你自己出来吧。付钱给我们的卖家，然后把我也赶出去。我们会走得足够快。

‘Are you all here to insult me?’ cried Becky in a fury; ‘when Colonel Crawley comes home I’ll—‘
“你们都是来侮辱我的吗？”贝基愤怒地喊道。 “克劳利上校回家后我会——”

At this the servants burst into a horse haw-haw, in which, however, Raggles, who still kept a most melancholy countenance, did not join. ‘He ain’t a coming back,’ Mr. Trotter resumed. ‘He sent for his things, and I wouldn’t let ‘em go, although Mr. Raggles would; and I don’t b’lieve he’s no more a Colonel than I am. He’s hoff, and I suppose you’re a goin’ after him. You’re no better than swindlers, both on you. Don’t be a bullyin’ ME. I won’t stand it. Pay us our selleries, I say. Pay us our selleries.’ It was evident, from Mr. Trotter’s flushed countenance and defective intonation, that he, too, had had recourse to vinous stimulus.
仆人们听到这话，突然发出一阵马蹄声，然而，仍然保持着忧郁表情的拉格斯并没有加入。 “他不会回来了，”特罗特先生继续说道。 “他派人去拿他的东西，我不肯放他们走，尽管拉格斯先生会放。”我不相信他和我一样不是上校。他很生气，我想你正在追他。你不比骗子好多少，都在你身上。别欺负我。我受不了。我说，付钱给我们。给我们付钱。”从特罗特先生涨红的脸色和有缺陷的语调来看，很明显，他也求助于葡萄酒的刺激。

‘Mr. Raggles,’ said Becky in a passion of vexation, ‘you will not surely let me be insulted by that drunken man?’ ‘Hold your noise, Trotter; do now,’ said Simpson the page. He was affected by his mistress’s deplorable situation, and succeeded in preventing an outrageous denial of the epithet ‘drunken’ on the footman’s part.
'先生。拉格斯，”贝基恼怒地说，“你不会让那个醉汉侮辱我吧？”现在就做，”页面上的辛普森说。他被情妇的悲惨处境所影响，并成功地阻止了男仆对“醉酒”这个绰号的无耻否认。

‘Oh, M’am,’ said Raggles, ‘I never thought to live to see this year day: I’ve known the Crawley family ever since I was born. I lived butler with Miss Crawley for thirty years; and I little thought one of that family was a goin’ to ruing me—yes, ruing me’—said the poor fellow with tears in his eyes. ‘Har you a goin’ to pay me? You’ve lived in this ‘ouse four year. You’ve ‘ad my substance: my plate and linning. You ho me a milk and butter bill of two ‘undred pound, you must ‘ave noo laid heggs for your homlets, and cream for your spanil dog.’
“哦，女士，”拉格斯说，“我从来没想过能活到今年的这一天：我从出生起就认识克劳利一家了。我和克劳利小姐一起当管家，生活了三十年。我没想到那个家庭中的一个人会毁了我——是的，毁了我。”可怜的家伙眼里含着泪水说道。 “你愿意”付钱给我吗？你已经在这栋房子里住了四年了。你已经广告了我的物质：我的盘子和衬里。你给我一张两磅的牛奶和黄油账单，“你必须为你的小伙子们准备好鸡蛋，为你的西班牙猎犬准备奶油。”

‘She didn’t care what her own flesh and blood had,’ interposed the cook. ‘Many’s the time, he’d have starved but for me.’
“她不在乎自己的骨肉有什么，”厨师插嘴道。 “很多时候，如果没有我，他就会挨饿。”

‘He’s a charaty-boy now, Cooky,’ said Mr. Trotter, with a drunken ‘ha! ha!’—and honest Raggles continued, in a lamentable tone, an enumeration of his griefs. All he said was true. Becky and her husband had ruined him. He had bills coming due next week and no means to meet them. He would be sold up and turned out of his shop and his house, because he had trusted to the Crawley family. His tears and lamentations made Becky more peevish than ever.
“库基，他现在是个乐善好施的孩子了，”特罗特先生醉醺醺地说道，“哈！”哈！”——诚实的拉格斯继续用悲哀的语气，列举了他的悲伤。他说的都是真的。贝基和她的丈夫毁了他。他的账单下周就要到期，但他没有办法支付。他会被卖掉，并被赶出他的商店和房子，因为他信任克劳利家族。他的眼泪和哀叹让贝基比以前更加暴躁。

‘You all seem to be against me,’ she said bitterly. ‘What do you want? I can’t pay you on Sunday. Come back to-morrow and I’ll pay you everything. I thought Colonel Crawley had settled with you. He will to-morrow. I declare to you upon my honour that he left home this morning with fifteen hundred pounds in his pocket-book. He has left me nothing. Apply to him. Give me a bonnet and shawl and let me go out and find him. There was a difference between us this morning. You all seem to know it. I promise you upon my word that you shall all be paid. He has got a good appointment. Let me go out and find him.’
“你们似乎都在反对我，”她痛苦地说。 '你想要什么？周日我不能付钱给你。明天回来，我会付给你所有的钱。我以为克劳利上校已经和你和解了。他明天就会。我以我的名誉向您宣布，他今天早上带着一千五百英镑离开家。他没有给我留下任何东西。向他申请。给我一顶帽子和披肩，让我出去找到他。今天早上我们之间就有了分歧。看来你们都知道了。我向你们保证，你们都会得到报酬。他有一个很好的约会。让我出去找他。

This audacious statement caused Raggles and the other personages present to look at one another with a wild surprise, and with it Rebecca left them. She went upstairs and dressed herself this time without the aid of her French maid. She went into Rawdon’s room, and there saw that a trunk and bag were packed ready for removal, with a pencil direction that they should be given when called for; then she went into the Frenchwoman’s garret; everything was clean, and all the drawers emptied there. She bethought herself of the trinkets which had been left on the ground and felt certain that the woman had fled. ‘Good Heavens! was ever such ill luck as mine?’ she said; ‘to be so near, and to lose all. Is it all too late?’ No; there was one chance more.
这句大胆的话，让拉格斯等人面面相觑，惊讶不已，丽贝卡也跟着离开了。这次她上楼穿好衣服，没有法国女仆的帮助。她走进罗登的房间，看到一个行李箱和袋子已经收拾好，准备搬走，并用铅笔指示，需要时应给出它们；然后她走进法国女人的阁楼。一切都很干净，所有的抽屉都空了。她想起地上留下的小饰品，确信那个女人已经逃走了。 '我的妈呀！ “有像我这样倒霉的吗？”她说。 ‘如此接近，却失去了一切。一切都太晚了吗？还有一次机会。

She dressed herself and went away unmolested this time, but alone. It was four o’clock. She went swiftly down the streets (she had no money to pay for a carriage), and never stopped until she came to Sir Pitt Crawley’s door, in Great Gaunt Street. Where was Lady Jane Crawley? She was at church. Becky was not sorry. Sir Pitt was in his study, and had given orders not to be disturbed—she must see him—she slipped by the sentinel in livery at once, and was in Sir Pitt’s room before the astonished Baronet had even laid down the paper.
她穿好衣服，这次没有受到任何干扰，但独自一人离开。当时是四点钟。她迅速沿着街道走去（她没有钱买马车），直到来到大冈特街皮特·克劳利爵士的家门口才停下来。简·克劳利夫人在哪里？她当时在教堂。贝基并不后悔。皮特爵士在他的书房里，并下令不要打扰她——她必须见他——她立刻从穿着制服的哨兵身边溜过去，在惊讶的男爵放下报纸之前就到了皮特爵士的房间。

He turned red and started back from her with a look of great alarm and horror.
他的脸涨得通红，从她身边退开，一脸惊慌和恐惧。

‘Do not look so,’ she said. ‘I am not guilty, Pitt, dear Pitt; you were my friend once. Before God, I am not guilty. I seem so. Everything is against me. And oh! at such a moment! just when all my hopes were about to be realized: just when happiness was in store for us.’
“别这么看，”她说。 “我无罪，皮特，亲爱的皮特；你曾经是我的朋友。在上帝面前，我是无罪的。我看来是这样的一切都与我作对。还有哦！就在这样的时刻！就在我所有的希望即将实现的时候：就在幸福即将来临的时候。

‘Is this true, what I see in the paper then?’ Sir Pitt said—a paragraph in which had greatly surprised him.
“我在报纸上看到的情况是真的吗？”皮特爵士说道，其中的一段话让他大吃一惊。

‘It is true. Lord Steyne told me on Friday night, the night of that fatal ball. He has been promised an appointment any time these six months. Mr. Martyr, the Colonial Secretary, told him yesterday that it was made out. That unlucky arrest ensued; that horrible meeting. I was only guilty of too much devotedness to Rawdon’s service. I have received Lord Steyne alone a hundred times before. I confess I had money of which Rawdon knew nothing. Don’t you know how careless he is of it, and could I dare to confide it to him?’ And so she went on with a perfectly connected story, which she poured into the ears of her perplexed kinsman.
'是真的。斯泰恩勋爵在周五晚上告诉我的，也就是那个致命舞会的晚上。他已被许诺在这六个月的任何时候都会有一个约会。辅政司烈士先生昨天告诉他，事情已经解决了。那次不幸的逮捕随之而来。那个可怕的会议。我只是对罗登的服务太过投入而感到内疚。我以前单独接待过斯泰因勋爵一百次。我承认我有钱，而罗登对此一无所知。难道你不知道他对此有多粗心吗？我敢向他吐露这件事吗？”于是她继续讲了一个完美相连的故事，并将其灌输给她困惑的亲戚耳中。

It was to the following effect. Becky owned, and with prefect frankness, but deep contrition, that having remarked Lord Steyne’s partiality for her (at the mention of which Pitt blushed), and being secure of her own virtue, she had determined to turn the great peer’s attachment to the advantage of herself and her family. ‘I looked for a peerage for you, Pitt,’ she said (the brother-in-law again turned red). ‘We have talked about it. Your genius and Lord Steyne’s interest made it more than probable, had not this dreadful calamity come to put an end to all our hopes. But, first, I own that it was my object to rescue my dear husband—him whom I love in spite of all his ill usage and suspicions of me—to remove him from the poverty and ruin which was impending over us. I saw Lord Steyne’s partiality for me,’ she said, casting down her eyes. ‘I own that I did everything in my power to make myself pleasing to him, and as far as an honest woman may, to secure his—his esteem. It was only on Friday morning that the news arrived of the death of the Governor of Coventry Island, and my Lord instantly secured the appointment for my dear husband. It was intended as a surprise for him—he was to see it in the papers to-day. Even after that horrid arrest took place (the expenses of which Lord Steyne generously said he would settle, so that I was in a manner prevented from coming to my husband’s assistance), my Lord was laughing with me, and saying that my dearest Rawdon would be consoled when he read of his appointment in the paper, in that shocking spun—bailiff’s house. And then—then he came home. His suspicions were excited,—the dreadful scene took place between my Lord and my cruel, cruel Rawdon—and, O my God, what will happen next? Pitt, dear Pitt! pity me, and reconcile us!’ And as she spoke she flung herself down on her knees, and bursting into tears, seized hold of Pitt’s hand, which she kissed passionately.
其效果如下。贝基坦白地承认，在注意到斯泰因勋爵对她的偏爱之后（皮特一提到这件事就脸红了），并且对自己的美德有信心，她决定将这位伟大贵族的依恋转化为优势。她自己和她的家人。 “我正在为你寻找贵族头衔，皮特，”她说（姐夫的脸又红了）。 ‘我们已经讨论过了。如果不是这场可怕的灾难结束了我们所有的希望，你的天才和斯泰因勋爵的兴趣使这一切变得很有可能。但是，首先，我承认，我的目标是拯救我亲爱的丈夫——我爱他，尽管他对我的虐待和怀疑——使他摆脱我们即将面临的贫困和毁灭。我看到了斯泰因勋爵对我的偏爱。”她垂下眼睛说道。 “我承认，我已尽一切努力让自己取悦他，并尽一个诚实的女人所能做到的，来确保他的——他的尊重。”直到周五早上，考文垂岛总督去世的消息才传来，勋爵大人立刻就任命了我亲爱的丈夫。这是给他一个惊喜——他今天会在报纸上看到这件事。即使在那次可怕的逮捕发生之后（斯泰因勋爵慷慨地说他会解决费用，因此我在某种程度上无法去帮助我丈夫），我的勋爵还在和我一起笑，并说我最亲爱的罗登会当他在报纸上读到他在那个令人震惊的法警家里被任命时，他感到很安慰。然后——然后他就回家了。他的怀疑被激发了——可怕的一幕发生在我的主和我残酷无情的罗登之间——而且，我的上帝啊，接下来会发生什么？皮特，亲爱的皮特！可怜我吧，让我们和解吧！’说着，她跪倒在地，泪流满面，抓住皮特的手，热情地吻着。

It was in this very attitude that Lady Jane, who, returning from church, ran to her husband’s room directly she heard Mrs. Rawdon Crawley was closeted there, found the Baronet and his sister-in-law.
正是在这种态度下，简夫人从教堂回来后，一听到罗登·克劳利夫人就关在丈夫的房间里，就跑到她丈夫的房间里，找到了从男爵和他的嫂子。

‘I am surprised that woman has the audacity to enter this house,’ Lady Jane said, trembling in every limb and turning quite pale. (Her Ladyship had sent out her maid directly after breakfast, who had communicated with Raggles and Rawdon Crawley’s household, who had told her all, and a great deal more than they knew, of that story, and many others besides). ‘How dare Mrs. Crawley to enter the house of—of an honest family?’
“我很惊讶这个女人竟敢闯进这所房子。”简女士说，她四肢颤抖，脸色变得苍白。 （早餐后，夫人立即派出女仆，女仆与拉格斯和罗登·克劳利的家人进行了沟通，他们告诉了她这个故事的全部内容，而且比他们知道的还要多）。 “克劳利夫人怎么敢进——一个诚实家庭的房子？”

Sir Pitt started back, amazed at his wife’s display of vigour. Becky still kept her kneeling posture and clung to Sir Pitt’s hand.
皮特爵士向后退了一步，对妻子表现出的活力感到惊讶。贝基仍然保持跪着的姿势，紧紧握住皮特爵士的手。

‘Tell her that she does not know all: Tell her that I am innocent, dear Pitt,’ she whimpered out.
“告诉她她并不知道一切：告诉她我是无辜的，亲爱的皮特，”她呜咽道。

‘Upon-my word, my love, I think you do Mrs. Crawley injustice,’ Sir Pitt said; at which speech Rebecca was vastly relieved. ‘Indeed I believe her to be—‘
“据我所知，亲爱的，我认为你对克劳利夫人不公平，”皮特爵士说。听了这番话，丽贝卡松了口气。 “我确实相信她是——”

‘To be what?’ cried out Lady Jane, her clear voice thrilling and, her heart beating violently as she spoke. ‘To be a wicked woman—a heartless mother, a false wife? She never loved her dear little boy, who used to fly here and tell me of her cruelty to him. She never came into a family but she strove to bring misery with her and to weaken the most sacred affections with her wicked flattery and falsehoods. She has deceived her husband, as she has deceived everybody; her soul is black with vanity, worldliness, and all sorts of crime. I tremble when I touch her. I keep my children out of her sight.’
“成为什么？”简女士喊道，她清澈的声音令人颤抖，说话时心脏剧烈跳动。 ‘做一个邪恶的女人——一个无情的母亲，一个假妻子？她从来不爱她亲爱的小男孩，他曾经飞到这里告诉我她对他的残忍行为。她从未进入过家庭，但她却竭力用她邪恶的奉承和谎言给自己带来痛苦，并削弱最神圣的感情。她欺骗了她的丈夫，正如她欺骗了所有人一样；她的灵魂充满了虚荣、世俗和各种罪恶。当我触碰她时我会颤抖。我让我的孩子远离她的视线。

‘Lady Jane!’ cried Sir Pitt, starting up, ‘this is really language—‘ ‘I have been a true and faithful wife to you, Sir Pitt,’ Lady Jane continued, intrepidly; ‘I have kept my marriage vow as I made it to God and have been obedient and gentle as a wife should. But righteous obedience has its limits, and I declare that I will not bear that—that woman again under my roof; if she enters it, I and my children will leave it. She is not worthy to sit down with Christian people. You—you must choose, sir, between her and me”; and with this my Lady swept out of the room, fluttering with her own audacity, and leaving Rebecca and Sir Pitt not a little astonished at it.
“简女士！”皮特爵士惊叫道，“这真是语言——”“皮特先生，我一直是您真正忠实的妻子，”简女士勇敢地继续说道； “我遵守了向上帝许下的婚姻誓言，并且像妻子应有的服从和温柔。但正义的服从是有限度的，我声明我不会再忍受那个女人再次出现在我的屋檐下；如果她进来，我和我的孩子们就会离开它。她不配与基督徒坐在一起。你——你必须在我和她之间做出选择，先生”；说完，我的夫人就冲出了房间，她的大胆使丽贝卡和皮特爵士对此感到非常惊讶。

As for Becky, she was not hurt; nay, she was pleased. ‘It was the diamond-clasp you gave me,’ she said to Sir Pitt, reaching him out her hand; and before she left him (for which event you may be sure my Lady Jane was looking out from her dressing-room window in the upper story) the Baronet had promised to go and seek out his brother, and endeavour to bring about a reconciliation.
至于贝基，她没有受伤；她没有受伤。不，她很高兴。 “这是你送给我的钻石扣，”她对皮特爵士说道，并向他伸出了手。在她离开他之前（您可以确信我的简夫人正从楼上更衣室的窗户往外看），从男爵答应去寻找他的兄弟，并努力实现和解。

Rawdon found some of the young fellows of the regiment seated in the mess-room at breakfast, and was induced without much difficulty to partake of that meal, and of the devilled legs of fowls and sodawater with which these young gentlemen fortified themselves. Then they had a conversation befitting the day and their time of life: about the next pigeon-match at Battersea, with relative bets upon Ross and Osbaldiston; about Mademoiselle Ariane of the French Opera, and who had left her, and how she was consoled by Panther Carr; and about the fight between the Butcher and the Pet, and the probabilities that it was a cross. Young Tandyman, a hero of seventeen, laboriously endeavouring to get up a pair of mustachios, had seen the fight, and spoke in the most scientific manner about the battle and the condition of the men. It was he who had driven the Butcher on to the ground in his drag and passed the whole of the previous night with him. Had there not been foul play he must have won it. All the old files of the Ring were in it; and Tandyman wouldn’t pay; no, dammy, he wouldn’t pay. It was but a year since the young Cornet, now so knowing a hand in Cribb’s parlour, had a still lingering liking for toffy, and used to be birched at Eton.
罗登发现团里的一些年轻人坐在餐厅里吃早餐，很容易就被吸引去吃这顿饭，以及这些年轻绅士用来增强体力的魔鬼鸡腿和苏打水。然后他们进行了一场适合这一天和他们一生中的时间的谈话：关于巴特西的下一场赛鸽比赛，以及对罗斯和奥斯巴尔迪斯顿的相对投注；关于法国歌剧院的阿丽亚娜小姐，谁离开了她，以及黑豹卡尔如何安慰她；以及关于屠夫和宠物之间的战斗，以及它是交叉的可能性。年轻的坦迪曼，一位十七岁的英雄，费力地努力留起两撇小胡子，他目睹了这场战斗，并以最科学的方式谈论了这场战斗和士兵们的状况。是他把屠夫拖倒在地，并陪他度过了前一晚。如果没有犯规的话，他一定赢了。所有关于魔戒的旧档案都在里面；坦迪曼不肯付钱；不，天哪，他不会付钱的。距离年轻的科内特现在已经在克里布的客厅里如此熟悉，对太妃糖的喜爱依然挥之不去，并且曾经在伊顿公学上过，仅仅一年前。

So they went on talking about dancers, fights, drinking, demireps, until Macmurdo came down and joined the boys and the conversation. He did not appear to think that any especial reverence was due to their boyhood; the old fellow cut in with stories, to the full as choice as any the youngest rake present had to tell—nor did his own grey hairs nor their smooth faces detain him. Old Mac was famous for his good stories. He was not exactly a lady’s man; that is, men asked him to dine rather at the houses of their mistresses than of their mothers. There can scarcely be a life lower, perhaps, than his, but he was quite contented with it, such as it was, and led it in perfect good nature, simplicity, and modesty of demeanour.
于是他们继续谈论舞者、打架、饮酒、半瘫，直到麦克默多下来加入男孩们的谈话。他似乎并不认为对他们的童年有任何特别的尊敬。老家伙插嘴讲故事，完全是在场最年轻的浪荡子必须讲述的选择——他自己的白发和他们光滑的脸也没有阻止他。老麦克以其好故事而闻名。他并不完全是一个受女士欢迎的男人。也就是说，男人们请他去他们的情妇家里而不是他们的母亲家里吃饭。或许，没有比他更低等的生活了，但他对现在的生活很满意，并且以完美的善良、简单和谦虚的举止过着这样的生活。

By the time Mac had finished a copious breakfast, most of the others had concluded their meal. Young Lord Varinas was smoking an immense Meerschaum pipe, while Captain Hugues was employed with a cigar: that violent little devil Tandyman, with his little bull-terrier between his legs, was tossing for shillings with all his might (that fellow was always at some game or other) against Captain Deuceace; and Mac and Rawdon walked off to the Club, neither, of course, having given any hint of the business which was occupying their minds. Both, on the other hand, had joined pretty gaily in the conversation, for why should they interrupt it? Feasting, drinking, ribaldry, laughter, go on alongside of all sorts of other occupations in Vanity Fair—the crowds were pouring out of church as Rawdon and his friend passed down St. James’s Street and entered into their Club.
当麦克吃完丰盛的早餐时，其他人大部分也吃完了饭。年轻的瓦里纳斯勋爵正在抽着巨大的海泡石烟斗，而休斯船长则在抽雪茄：那个暴力的小恶魔坦迪曼，两腿之间夹着他的小斗牛犬，正在拼尽全力地为先令抛掷（那个家伙总是在一些与 Deuceace 船长的游戏或其他）；麦克和罗登向俱乐部走去，当然，他们都没有透露出他们正在做的事情。另一方面，两人都非常愉快地加入谈话，为什么要打断呢？盛宴、饮酒、粗俗、欢笑，与《名利场》中的各种其他活动并存——当罗登和他的朋友穿过圣詹姆斯街进入他们的俱乐部时，人群从教堂涌出。

The old bucks and habitues, who ordinarily stand gaping and grinning out of the great front window of the Club, had not arrived at their posts as yet—the newspaper-room was almost empty. One man was present whom Rawdon did not know; another to whom he owed a little score for whist, and whom, in consequence, he did not care to meet; a third was reading the Royalist (a periodical famous for its scandal and its attachment to Church and King) Sunday paper at the table, and looking up at Crawley with some interest, said, ‘Crawley, I congratulate you.’
那些平时站在俱乐部大前窗外目瞪口呆、咧着嘴笑的老家伙和常客们现在还没有到达自己的岗位——报刊室几乎空无一人。现场有一名罗登不认识的人。另一个人，他在惠斯特比赛中欠了一点分数，因此，他不想见到他。第三个人正在桌旁阅读《保皇党》（一本以丑闻及其对教会和国王的依恋而闻名的期刊）周日报纸，并饶有兴趣地抬头看着克劳利，说：“克劳利，我祝贺你。”

‘What do you mean?’ said the Colonel.
“你这是什么意思？”上校问道。

‘It’s in the Observer and the Royalist too,’ said Mr. Smith.
“《观察家报》和《保皇党报》也有报道，”史密斯先生说。

‘What?’ Rawdon cried, turning very red. He thought that the affair with Lord Steyne was already in the public prints. Smith looked up wondering and smiling at the agitation which the Colonel exhibited as he took up the paper and, trembling, began to read.
“什么？”罗登喊道，脸涨得通红。他认为与斯泰因勋爵的风流韵事已经被公开报道了。史密斯抬起头，惊讶地看着上校，他拿起报纸，颤抖着开始读起来，表现出激动的表情，微笑着。

Mr. Smith and Mr. Brown (the gentleman with .whom Rawdon had the outstanding whist account) had been talking about the Colonel just before he came in.
就在上校进来之前，史密斯先生和布朗先生（罗登与他有出色的惠斯特账户的那位绅士）一直在谈论上校。

‘It is come just in the nick of time,’ said Smith. ‘I suppose Crawley had not a shilling in the world.’
“它来得正是时候，”史密斯说。 “我想克劳利世界上连一先令都没有。”

‘It’s a wind that blows everybody good,’ Mr. Brown said. ‘He can’t go away without paying me a pony he owes me.’
“这股风对每个人都有好处，”布朗先生说。 “如果不付给我他欠我的一匹小马，他就不能走开。”

‘What’s the salary?’ asked Smith.
“工资是多少？”史密斯问。

‘Two or three thousand,’ answered the other. ‘But the climate’s so infernal, they don’t enjoy it long. Liverseege died after eighteen months of it, and the man before went off in six weeks, I hear.’
另一个回答说：“两三千。” “但气候如此恶劣，他们并没有享受多久。利弗塞吉在十八个月后去世了，据我所知，之前的那个人在六周后就去世了。

‘Some people say his brother is a very clever man. I always found him a d——bore,’ Smith ejaculated. ‘He must have good interest, though. He must have got the Colonel the place.’
“有人说他的兄弟是一个非常聪明的人。 “我总是觉得他很讨厌。”史密斯脱口而出。 “不过，他一定有很好的兴趣。他一定是让上校得到了这个位置。

‘He!’ said Brown. with a sneer. ‘Pooh. It was Lord Steyne got it.
“他！”布朗说。冷笑一声。 '呸。是斯泰因勋爵得到的。

‘How do you mean?’
'你是什么意思？'

‘A virtuous woman is a crown to her husband,’ answered the other enigmatically, and went to read his papers.
“贤惠的女人是丈夫的王冠。”另一个人神秘地回答道，然后就去读他的论文。

Rawdon, for his part, read in the Royalist the following astonishing paragraph:
罗登则在《保皇党》中读到了以下令人震惊的段落：

GOVERNORSHIP OF COVENTRY ISLAND.—H.M.S. Yellowjack, Commander Jaunders, has brought letters and papers from Coventry Island. H. E. Sir Thomas Liverseege had fallen a victim to the prevailing fever at Swampton. His loss is deeply felt in the flourishing colony. We hear that the Governorship has been offered to Colonel Rawdon Crawley, C.B., a distinguished Waterloo officer. We need not only men of acknowledged bravery, but men of administrative talents to superintend the affairs of our colonies, and we have no doubt that the gentleman selected by the Colonial Office to fill the lamented vacancy which has occurred at Coventry Island is admirably calculated for the post which he is about to occupy.’
考文垂岛总督府——H.M.S.黄杰克，詹德斯指挥官，从考文垂岛带来了信件和文件。托马斯·利弗塞吉爵士 (H.E. Sir Thomas Liverseege) 成为斯旺普顿流行热病的受害者。蓬勃发展的殖民地对他的去世深有感触。我们听说总督职位已被授予罗登·克劳利 (Rawdon Crawley) 上校，C.B.，一位杰出的滑铁卢军官。我们不仅需要勇敢的人，而且需要有行政才能的人来监督我们殖民地的事务，我们毫不怀疑，殖民地办公室选出的这位绅士来填补考文垂岛出现的令人遗憾的空缺，是经过精心设计的。他即将担任的职位。

‘Coventry Island! Where was it? Who had appointed him to the government? You must take me out as your secretary, old boy,’ Captain Macmurdo said laughing; and as Crawley and his friend sat wondering and perplexed over the announcement, the Club waiter brought in to the Colonel a card on which the name of Mr. Wenham was engraved, who begged to see Colonel Crawley.
‘考文垂岛！它在哪里？谁任命他为政府的？你必须把我当成你的秘书，老伙计。”麦克默多船长笑着说道。当克劳利和他的朋友坐在那里对这一消息感到疑惑和困惑时，俱乐部服务员给上校带来了一张卡片，上面刻着韦纳姆先生的名字，他恳求见见克劳利上校。

The Colonel and his aide-de-camp went out to meet the gentleman, rightly conjecturing that he was an emissary of Lord Steyne. ‘How d’ye do, Crawley? I am glad to see you,’ said Mr. Wenham with a bland smile, and grasping Crawley’s hand with great cordiality.
上校和他的副官出去迎接这位绅士，正确地推测他是斯泰因勋爵的使者。 “你好吗，克劳利？” “我很高兴见到你。”温纳姆先生温和地微笑着说道，并非常诚恳地握住了克劳利的手。

‘You come, I suppose, from—‘
“我想，你来自——”

‘Exactly,’ said Mr. Wenham.
“完全正确，”文纳姆先生说。

‘Then this is my friend Captain Macmurdo, of the Life Guards Green.’
“这是我的朋友，救生员绿队的麦克默多上尉。”

‘Delighted to know Captain Macmurdo, I’m sure,’ Mr. Wenham said and tendered another smile and shake of the hand to the second, as he had done to the principal. Mac put out one finger, armed with a buckskin glove, and made a very frigid bow to Mr. Wenham over his tight cravat. He was, perhaps, discontented at being put in communication with a pekin, and thought that Lord Steyne should have sent him a Colonel at the very least.
“我确信，很高兴认识麦克默多上尉，”文纳姆先生说道，又微笑着向第二个握手，就像他对校长所做的那样。麦克伸出一根手指，戴着鹿皮手套，在紧领带上向文纳姆先生非常冷酷地鞠了一躬。也许他对被安排与一个北京人交往感到不满，并认为斯泰因勋爵至少应该派给他一名上校。

‘As Macmurdo acts for me, and knows what I mean,’ Crawley said, ‘I had better retire and leave you together.’
“麦克默多为我行事，并且知道我的意思，”克劳利说，“我最好退休，把你们留在一起。”

‘Of course,’ said Macmurdo.
“当然，”麦克默多说。

‘By no means, my dear Colonel,’ Mr. Wenham said; ‘the interview which I had the honour of requesting was with you personally, though the company of Captain Macmurdo cannot fail to be also most pleasing. In fact, Captain, I hope that our conversation will lead to none but the most agreeable results, very different from those which my friend Colonel Crawley appears to anticipate.’
“绝不是这样，我亲爱的上校，”温纳姆先生说。 “我有幸邀请的采访对象是您本人，尽管麦克默多船长的陪伴也一定令人非常愉快。事实上，上尉，我希望我们的谈话只会带来最令人愉快的结果，这与我的朋友克劳利上校所预期的结果截然不同。

‘Humph!’ said Captain Macmurdo. Be hanged to these civilians, he thought to himself, they are always for arranging and speechifying. Mr. Wenham took a chair which was not offered to him—took a paper from his pocket, and resumed—
“哼！”麦克默多船长说道。绞死这些平民吧，他心想，他们总是用来编排和说话的。温纳姆先生坐了一把没人给他的椅子——从口袋里掏出一张纸，然后继续——

‘You have seen this gratifying announcement in the papers this morning, Colonel? Government has secured a most valuable servant, and you, if you accept office, as I presume you will, an excellent appointment. Three thousand a year, delightful climate, excellent government-house, all your own way in the Colony, and a certain promotion. I congratulate you with all my heart. I presume you know, gentlemen, to whom my friend is indebted for this piece of patronage?’
“今天早上你在报纸上看到了这条令人欣慰的消息吗，上校？政府已经找到了一位最有价值的仆人，而你，如果你接受公职（我想你会的），那将是一次极好的任命。年薪三千，宜人的气候，优秀的政府大楼，在殖民地里随心所欲，还有一定的晋升。我全心全意地祝贺你。先生们，我想你们知道我的朋友应该感谢谁的赞助吗？

‘Hanged if I know,’ the Captain said; his principal turned very red.
“如果我知道的话，那就绞死吧，”船长说。他的校长脸红了。

‘To one of the most generous and kindest men in the world, as he is one of the greatest—to my excellent friend, the Marquis of Steyne.’
“献给世界上最慷慨、最善良的人之一，因为他是最伟大的人之一——献给我的好朋友，斯泰因侯爵。”

‘I’ll see him d—before I take his place,’ growled out Rawdon.
“在我取代他的位置之前，我会见到他，”罗登咆哮道。

‘You are irritated against my noble friend,’ Mr. Wenham calmly resumed; ‘and now, in the name of common sense and justice, tell me why?’
“你对我高贵的朋友感到恼火，”温纳姆先生平静地继续说道。 “现在，以常识和正义的名义，告诉我为什么？”

‘WHY?’ cried Rawdon in surprise.
“为什么？”罗登惊讶地喊道。

‘Why? Dammy!’ said the Captain, ringing his stick on the ground.
'为什么？ “妈的！”船长一边说着，一边用棍子敲打着地面。

‘Dammy, indeed,’ said Mr. Wenham with the most agreeable smile; ‘still, look at the matter as a man of the world—as an honest man— and see if you have not been in the wrong. You come home from a journey, and find—what?—my Lord Steyne supping at your house in Curzon Street with Mrs. Crawley. Is the circumstance strange or novel? Has he not been a hundred times before in the same position? Upon my honour and word as a gentleman’—Mr. Wenham here put his hand on his waistcoat with a parliamentary air—‘I declare I think that your suspicions are monstrous and utterly unfounded, and that they injure an honourable gentleman who has proved his good-will towards you by a thousand benefactions—and a most spotless and innocent lady.’
“达米，确实如此，”文纳姆先生带着最令人愉快的微笑说道。 “不过，作为一个有见识的人——作为一个诚实的人——来看看这件事，看看你是否有错。你出差回家，发现——什么？——斯泰恩勋爵正在你位于柯松街的家里和克劳利夫人一起吃晚饭。情况是否奇怪或新奇？同样的位置他不是已经经历过一百次了吗？以我作为绅士的荣誉和承诺”——先生。温纳姆此时把手放在背心上，一副议会的样子——“我声明，我认为你的怀疑是可怕的，完全没有根据的，它们伤害了一位可敬的绅士，他已经通过一千次的善行证明了他对你的善意——而且最一尘不染、最无辜的女士。

‘You don’t mean to say that—that Crawley’s mistaken?’ said Mr. Macmurdo.
“你不是想说克劳利错了？”麦克默多先生说。

‘I believe that Mrs. Crawley is as innocent as my wife, Mrs. Wenham,’ Mr. Wenham said with great energy. ‘I believe that, misled by an infernal jealousy, my friend here strikes a blow against not only an infirm and old man of high station, his constant friend and benefactor, but against his wife, his own dearest honour, his son’s future reputation, and his own prospects in life.’
“我相信克劳利夫人和我的妻子文纳姆夫人一样无辜，”文纳姆先生精力充沛地说。 “我相信，在地狱般的嫉妒的误导下，我的朋友不仅打击了一位体弱多病、身居高位的老人、他忠实的朋友和恩人，而且打击了他的妻子、他自己最宝贵的荣誉、他儿子未来的声誉，以及他自己的人生前景。

‘I will tell you what happened,’ Mr. Wenham continued with great solemnity; ‘I was sent for this morning by my Lord Steyne, and found him in a pitiable state, as, I need hardly inform Colonel Crawley, any man of age and infirmity would be after a personal conflict with a man of your strength. I say to your face; it was a cruel advantage you took of that strength, Colonel Crawley. It was not only the body of my noble and excellent friend which was wounded— his heart, sir, was bleeding. A man whom he had loaded with benefits and regarded with affection had subjected him to the foulest indignity. What was this very appointment, which appears in the journals of to-day, but a proof of his kindness to you? When I saw his Lordship this morning I found him in a state pitiable indeed to see, and as anxious as you are to revenge the outrage committed upon him, by blood. You know he has given his proofs, I presume, Colonel Crawley?’
“我会告诉你发生了什么事，”温纳姆先生极其严肃地继续说道。 “今天早上我被斯泰因勋爵叫来，发现他处于可怜的状态，因为，我几乎不需要告诉克劳利上校，任何年老体弱的人在与像你这样力量的人发生个人冲突之后都会如此。我当着你的面说；克劳利上校，你利用了这种力量，这是一种残酷的优势。受伤的不仅是我高贵而优秀的朋友的身体——先生，他的心也在流血。一个他曾给予他很多好处、充满感情的人却让他遭受了最卑鄙的侮辱。今天的杂志上出现的这个任命，除了证明他对你的善意之外，还有什么意义呢？今天早上，当我见到阁下时，我发现他的处境确实很可怜，并且像您一样渴望以血腥的方式报复对他所犯下的暴行。我想，克劳利上校，你知道他已经给出了证据吗？

‘He has plenty of pluck,’ said the Colonel. ‘Nobody ever said he hadn’t.’
“他有足够的勇气，”上校说。 “没有人说过他没有。”

‘His first order to me was to write a letter of challenge, and to carry it to Colonel Crawley. One or other of us,’ he said, ‘must not survive the outrage of last night.’
“他给我的第一个命令是写一封挑战信，并将其交给克劳利上校。 “我们中的任何一个人，”他说，“绝不能在昨晚的暴行中幸存下来。”

Crawley nodded. ‘You’re coming to the point, Wenham,’ he said.
克劳利点点头。 “你说到重点了，韦纳姆，”他说。

‘I tried my utmost to calm Lord Steyne. Good God! sir,’ I said, ‘how I regret that Mrs. Wenham and myself had not accepted Mrs. Crawley’s invitation to sup with her!’
“我尽了最大努力让斯泰因勋爵平静下来。天哪！先生，”我说，“我多么遗憾温纳姆夫人和我自己没有接受克劳利夫人的邀请，与她共进晚餐！”

‘She asked you to sup with her?’ Captain Macmurdo said.
“她邀请你和她一起吃饭？”麦克默多船长说。

‘After the opera. Here’s the note of invitation—stop—no, this is another paper—I thought I had h, but it’s of no consequence, and I pledge you my word to the fact. If we had come—and it was only one of Mrs. Wenham’s headaches which prevented us—she suffers under them a good deal, especially in the spring—if we had come, and you had returned home, there would have been no quarrel, no insult, no suspicion—and so it is positively because my poor wife has a headache that you are to bring death down upon two men of honour and plunge two of the most excellent and ancient families in the kingdom into disgrace and sorrow.’
歌剧结束后。这是邀请函——停下来——不，这是另一篇论文——我以为我已经收到了，但这并不重要，我向你保证我的承诺。如果我们来了——只是温纳姆太太的一个头痛阻碍了我们——她在头痛中受了很多苦，尤其是在春天——如果我们来了，而你也回家了，就不会有争吵了，没有侮辱，没有怀疑——所以，正是因为我可怜的妻子头痛，你才让两个有荣誉的人死去，让王国里两个最优秀、最古老的家族陷入耻辱和悲伤。

Mr. Macmurdo looked at his principal with the air of a man profoundly puzzled, and Rawdon felt with a kind of rage that his prey was escaping him. He did not believe a word of the story, and yet, how discredit or disprove it?
麦克默多先生用一种深感困惑的神情看着他的校长，而罗登则感到一种愤怒，因为他的猎物正在逃离他。他不相信这个故事的一个字，但是，如何诋毁或反驳它呢？

Mr. Wenham continued with the same fluent oratory, which in his place in Parliament he had so often practised—‘I sat for an hour or more by Lord Steyne’s bedside, beseeching, imploring Lord Steyne to forego his intention of demanding a meeting. I pointed out to him that the circumstances were after all suspicious—they were suspicious. I acknowledge it—any man in your position might have been taken in—I said that a man furious with jealousy is to all intents and purposes a madman, and should be as such regarded—that a duel between you must lead to the disgrace of all parties concerned—that a man of his Lordship’s exalted station had no right in these days, when the most atrocious revolutionary principles, and the most dangerous levelling doctrines are preached among the vulgar, to create a public scandal; and that, however innocent, the common people would insist that he was guilty. In fine, I implored him not to send the challenge.’
温纳姆先生继续用他在议会中经常练习的同样流利的演讲——“我在斯泰因勋爵的床边坐了一个多小时，恳求、恳求斯泰因勋爵放弃要求开会的意图。我向他指出，情况毕竟很可疑——它们很可疑。我承认——任何处于你地位的人都可能被欺骗——我说过，一个因嫉妒而愤怒的人从所有意图和目的来说都是一个疯子，并且应该被视为疯子——你们之间的决斗必定会导致他的耻辱。所有有关各方——在当今这个时代，当最残暴的革命原则和最危险的平等学说在庸人中传播时，一位尊贵的勋爵无权制造公众丑闻；而且，无论他是无辜的，老百姓都会坚持认为他有罪。最后，我恳求他不要发出挑战。

‘I don’t believe one word of the whole story,’ said Rawdon, grinding his teeth. ‘I believe it a d——lie, and that you’re in it, Mr. Wenham. If the challenge don’t come from him, by Jove it shall come from me.’
“整个故事我一个字都不相信，”罗登咬牙切齿地说。 “我相信这是一个谎言，而你也参与其中，文纳姆先生。”如果挑战不是来自他，天哪，挑战应该来自我。”

Mr. Wenham turned deadly pale at this savage interruption of the Colonel and looked towards the door.
上校的野蛮打断让文汉姆先生的脸色变得惨白，他朝门口看去。

But he found a champion in Captain Macmurdo. That gentleman rose up with an oath and rebuked Rawdon for his language. ‘You put the affair into my hands, and you shall act as I think fit, by Jove, and not as you do. You have no right to insult Mr. Wenham with this sort of language; and dammy, Mr. Wenham, you deserve an apology. And as for a challenge to Lord Steyne, you may get somebody else to carry it, I won’t. If my lord, after being thrashed, chooses to sit still, dammy let him. And as for the affair with—with Mrs. Crawley, my belief is, there’s nothing proved at all: that your wife’s innocent, as innocent as Mr. Wenham says she is; and at any rate that you would be a d—fool not to take the place and hold your tongue.’
但他找到了麦克默多船长作为冠军。那位绅士起身发誓，斥责罗登的语言。 “你把这件事交到我手里，天哪，你将按照我认为合适的方式行事，而不是按照你自己的方式行事。”你没有权利用这种语言侮辱韦纳姆先生；亲爱的，温纳姆先生，你值得道歉。至于对斯泰因勋爵的挑战，你可以找别人来承担，我不会。如果我的主人在被殴打后选择坐着不动，该死的就让他这么做吧。至于与——与克劳利夫人的风流韵事，我相信，根本没有任何证据可以证明：你的妻子是无辜的，正如文纳姆先生所说的那样无辜；无论如何，如果你不占据这个位置并保持沉默，那你就是个傻瓜。”

‘Captain Macmurdo, you speak like a man of sense,’ Mr. Wenham cried out, immensely relieved—‘I forget any words that Colonel Crawley has used in the irritation of the moment.’
“麦克默多船长，你说话像个有理智的人，”文汉姆先生大喊道，心里松了口气——“我忘记了克劳利上校在这一刻激怒时说过的任何话。”

‘I thought you would,’ Rawdon said with a sneer.
“我以为你会的，”罗登冷笑道。

‘Shut your mouth, you old stoopid,’ the Captain said good-naturedly. ‘Mr. Wenham ain’t a fighting man; and quite right, too.’
“闭上你的嘴，你这个老傻瓜。”船长和善地说。 '先生。温纳姆不是一个好斗的人；他是一个好斗的人。也很正确。”

‘This matter, in my belief,’ the Steyne emissary cried, ‘ought to be buried in the most profound oblivion. A word concerning it should never pass these doors. I speak in the interest of my friend, as well as of Colonel Crawley, who persists in considering me his enemy.’
“我认为，这件事，”斯泰因使者喊道，“应该被埋葬在最深的遗忘中。”有关此事的任何言论都不应通过这些门。我是为了我的朋友以及克劳利上校的利益而发言，他坚持认为我是他的敌人。

‘I suppose Lord Steyne won’t talk about it very much,’ said Captain Macmurdo; ‘and I don’t see why our side should. The affair ain’t a very pretty one, any way you take it, and the less said about it the better. It’s you are thrashed, and not us; and if you are satisfied, why, I think, we should be.’
“我想斯泰因勋爵不会过多谈论这件事，”麦克默多船长说。 “我不明白为什么我们这边应该这样做。不管你怎么看，这件事都不是一件很美好的事情，而且越少说越好。被打的是你们，不是我们；如果你满意，我认为我们应该满意。

Mr. Wenham took his hat, upon this, and Captain Macmurdo following him to the door, shut it upon himself and Lord Steyne’s agent, leaving Rawdon chafing within. When the two were on the other side, Macmurdo looked hard at the other ambassador and with an expression of anything but respect on his round jolly face.
温纳姆先生接过帽子，麦克默多船长跟着他走到门口，把帽子关在自己和斯泰因勋爵的代理人身上，让罗登在心里焦躁不安。当两人走到另一边时，麦克默多认真地看着另一位大使，他那张快乐的圆脸上毫无尊敬的表情。

‘You don’t stick at a trifle, Mr. Wenham,’ he said.
“你不会在小事上纠缠不休，文纳姆先生，”他说。

‘You flatter me, Captain Macmurdo,’ answered the other with a smile. ‘Upon my honour and conscience now, Mrs. Crawley did ask us to sup after the opera.’
“你太恭维我了，麦克默多船长，”另一个微笑着回答。 “以我的名誉和良心来说，克劳利夫人确实邀请我们在歌剧结束后共进晚餐。”

‘Of course; and Mrs. Wenham had one of her head-aches. I say, I’ve got a thousand-pound note here, which I will give you if you will give me a receipt, please; and I will put the note up in an envelope for Lord Steyne. My man shan’t fight him. But we had rather not take his money.’
'当然;温纳姆太太有一个头痛的问题。我说，我这里有一张一千英镑的钞票，如果你能给我一张收据，我就给你；我会把这张纸条装进一个信封，送给斯泰因勋爵。我的男人不会与他战斗。但我们不想拿他的钱。”

‘It was all a mistake—all a mistake, my dear sir,’ the other said with the utmost innocence of manner; and was bowed down the Club steps by Captain Macmurdo, just as Sir Pitt Crawley ascended them. There was a slight acquaintance between these two gentlemen, and the Captain, going back with the Baronet to the room where the latter’s brother was, told Sir Pitt, in confidence, that he had made the affair all right between Lord Steyne and the Colonel.
“这完全是一个错误——完全是一个错误，我亲爱的先生，”另一个人以极其天真的态度说道。当皮特·克劳利爵士登上俱乐部台阶时，麦克默多队长向他鞠了一躬。这两位先生之间有一点熟识，上尉带着从男爵回到后者的兄弟所在的房间，私下告诉皮特爵士，他已经把斯泰因勋爵和上校之间的关系搞好了。

Sir Pitt was well pleased, of course, at this intelligence, and congratulated his brother warmly upon the peaceful issue of the affair, making appropriate moral remarks upon the evils of duelling and the unsatisfactory nature of that sort of settlement of disputes.
皮特爵士当然对这一情报感到非常高兴，并热烈祝贺他的兄弟和平解决了这件事，并对决斗的罪恶和这种争端解决方式的不令人满意的性质做出了适当的道德评论。

And after this preface, he tried with all his eloquence to effect a reconciliation between Rawdon and his wife. He recapitulated the statements which Becky had made, pointed out the probabilities of their truth, and asserted his own firm belief in her innocence.
在这篇序言之后，他竭尽全力试图使罗登和他的妻子和解。他重述了贝基的陈述，指出了这些陈述的真实性，并坚称自己坚信贝基是无辜的。

But Rawdon would not hear of it. ‘She has kep money concealed from me these ten years,’ he said ‘She swore, last night only, she had none from Steyne. She knew it was all up, directly I found it. If she’s not guilty, Pitt, she’s as bad as guilty, and I’ll never see her again—never.’ His head sank down on his chest as he spoke the words, and he looked quite broken and sad.
但罗登不肯听。 “这十年来，她一直向我隐瞒钱财，”他说，“她发誓，就在昨晚，她没有从斯泰因那里得到一分钱。”我一发现她就知道一切都结束了。如果她没有罪，皮特，她就和有罪一样糟糕了，我再也见不到她了——永远见不到她了。”说这句话时，他的头低垂在胸前，看上去非常破碎和悲伤。

‘Poor old boy,’ Macmurdo said, shaking his head.
“可怜的老男孩，”麦克默多摇摇头说道。

Rawdon Crawley resisted for some time the idea of taking the place which had been procured for him by so odious a patron, and was also for removing the boy from the school where Lord Steyne’s interest had placed him. He was induced, however, to acquiesce in these benefits by the entreaties of his brother and Macmurdo, but mainly by the latter, pointing out to him what a fury Steyne would be in to think that his enemy’s fortune was made through his means.
罗登·克劳利有一段时间拒绝接受这个由如此可恶的赞助人为他争取到的位置的想法，并且还同意将这个男孩从斯泰因勋爵的利益所安排的学校中除名。然而，在他的兄弟和麦克默多的恳求下，他默许了这些好处，但主要是后者，向他指出，如果斯泰因认为他的敌人的财富是通过他的手段获得的，他会多么愤怒。

When the Marquis of Steyne came abroad after his accident, the Colonial Secretary bowed up to him and congratulated himself and the Service upon having made so excellent an appointment. These congratulations were received with a degree of gratitude which may be imagined on the part of Lord Steyne.
当斯泰因侯爵出事后出国时，辅政司向他鞠躬，并祝贺他本人和政府部门做出了如此出色的任命。斯泰因勋爵收到这些祝贺时怀着一定程度的感激之情，这一点是可以想象的。

The secret of the rencontre between him and Colonel Crawley was buried in the profoundest oblivion, as Wenham said; that is, by the seconds and the principals. But before that evening was over it was talked of at fifty dinner-tables in Vanity Fair. Little Cackleby himself went to seven evening parties and told the story with comments and emendations at each place. How Mrs. Washington White revelled in it! The Bishopess of Ealing was shocked beyond expression; the Bishop went and wrote his name down in the visitingbook at Gaunt House that very day. Little Southdown was sorry; so you may be sure was his sister Lady Jane, very sorry. Lady Southdown wrote it off to her other daughter at the Cape of Good Hope. It was town-talk for at least three days, and was only kept out of the newspapers by the exertions of Mr. Wagg, acting upon a hint from Mr. Wenham.
正如韦纳姆所说，他和克劳利上校之间的会面秘密被埋在了最深的遗忘之中；也就是说，按秒和本金。但那天晚上结束之前，《名利场》的五十张餐桌上就开始谈论这件事。小卡克尔比本人参加了七个晚会，并在每个地方都讲述了这个故事并提出了评论和修正。华盛顿·怀特夫人多么陶醉其中啊！伊灵主教夫人震惊得无法形容。主教当天就去冈特庄园，把他的名字写在了名录上。小绍斯唐很抱歉；所以你可以肯定是他的妹妹简女士，非常抱歉。绍斯唐夫人将其写给了她在好望角的另一个女儿。这件事至少在镇上流传了三天，只是在瓦格先生按照文纳姆先生的暗示采取行动后，才没有出现在报纸上。

The bailiffs and brokers seized upon poor Raggles in Curzon Street, and the late fair tenant of that poor little mansion was in the meanwhile—where? Who cared! Who asked after a day or two? Was she guilty or not? We all know how charitable the world is, and how the verdict of Vanity Fair goes when there is a doubt. Some people said she had gone to Naples in pursuit of Lord Steyne, whilst others averred that his Lordship quitted that city and fled to Palermo on hearing of Becky’s arrival; some said she was living in Bierstadt, and had become a dame d’honneur to the Queen of Bulgaria; some that she was at Boulogne; and others, at a boarding-house at Cheltenham.
法警和掮客在寇松街抓住了可怜的拉格斯，而与此同时，那座可怜的小宅邸的已故公平房客也在哪里？谁在乎呢！一两天后谁问了？她有罪还是无罪？我们都知道这个世界是多么的仁慈，也知道当有疑问的时候《名利场》的判决是怎样的。有人说她去那不勒斯追寻斯泰因勋爵，而另一些人则断言勋爵在听说贝基到来后离开了那不勒斯，逃到了巴勒莫。有人说她住在比尔施塔特，并已成为保加利亚女王的荣誉夫人。有些人说她在布洛涅；有些人说她在布洛涅；有些人说她在布洛涅。和其他人，在切尔滕纳姆的一家寄宿处。

Rawdon made her a tolerable annuity, and we may be sure that she was a woman who could make a little money go a great way, as the saying is. He would have paid his debts on leaving England, could he have got any Insurance Office to take his life, but the climate of Coventry Island was so bad that he could borrow no money on the strength of his salary. He remitted, however, to his brother punctually, and wrote to his little boy regularly every mail. He kept Macmurdo in cigars and sent over quantities of shells, cayenne pepper, hot pickles, guava jelly, and colonial produce to Lady Jane. He sent his brother home the Swamp Town Gazette, in which the new Governor was praised with immense enthusiasm; whereas the Swamp Town Sentinel, whose wife was not asked to Government House, declared that his Excellency was a tyrant, compared to whom Nero was an enlightened philanthropist. Little Rawdon used to like to get the papers and read about his Excellency.
罗登给了她一笔可观的年金，我们可以肯定，正如俗话说的那样，她是一个可以赚小钱走大路的女人。如果他有任何保险公司来结束他的生命，他在离开英国时本可以偿还债务，但考文垂岛的气候如此恶劣，他无法凭自己的薪水借到钱。然而，他准时向他的兄弟汇款，并定期给他的小儿子写每封邮件。他把麦克默多放在雪茄里，并向简夫人寄去大量贝壳、辣椒、泡菜、番石榴果冻和殖民地农产品。他给弟弟寄了一份《沼泽镇公报》，新总督在公报中受到了极大的热情赞扬。而沼泽镇的哨兵，其妻子没有被邀请到总督府，却宣称阁下是一个暴君，相比之下，尼禄是一个开明的慈善家。小罗登以前喜欢拿到报纸，阅读有关阁下的事迹。

His mother never made any movement to see the child. He went home to his aunt for Sundays and holidays; he soon knew every bird’s nest about Queen’s Crawley, and rode out with Sir Huddlestone’s hounds, which he admired so on his first well-remembered visit to Hampshire.
他的母亲从未做出任何要见孩子的动作。周日和节假日他都会回到姨妈家。他很快就熟悉了皇后克劳利的每一个鸟巢，并与哈德尔斯通爵士的猎犬一起骑马出去，在他第一次访问汉普郡时，他对这些猎犬非常钦佩。

Chapter LVI
第六章


Georgy is Made a Gentleman
乔治成为绅士

Georgy Osborne was now fairly established in his grandfather’s mansion in Russell Square, occupant of his father’s room in the house and heir apparent of all the splendours there. The good looks, gallant bearing, and gentlemanlike appearance of the boy won the grandsire’s heart for him. Mr. Osborne was as proud of him as ever he had been of the elder George.
乔治·奥斯本现在在他祖父位于罗素广场的豪宅中已经相当稳固，他是他父亲房间里的主人，也是那里所有辉煌的法定继承人。这孩子英俊的外表、英俊的举止、绅士风度，赢得了爷爷的芳心。奥斯本先生为他感到骄傲，就像他为老乔治感到骄傲一样。

The child had many more luxuries and indulgences than had been awarded his father. Osborne’s commerce had prospered greatly of late years. His wealth and importance in the City had very much increased. He had been glad enough in former days to put the elder George to a good private school; and a commission in the army for his son had been a source of no small pride to him; for little George and his future prospects the old man looked much higher. He would make a gentleman of the little chap, was Mr. Osborne’s constant saying regarding little Georgy. He saw him in his mind’s eye, a collegian, a Parliament man, a Baronet, perhaps. The old man thought he would die contented if he could see his grandson in a fair way to such honours. He would have none but a tip-top college man to educate him—none of your quacks and pretenders—no, no. A few years before, he used to be savage, and inveigh against all parsons, scholars, and the like declaring that they were a pack of humbugs, and quacks that weren’t fit to get their living but by grinding Latin and Greek, and a set of supercilious dogs that pretended to look down upon British merchants and gentlemen, who could buy up half a hundred of ‘em. He would mourn now, in a very solemn manner, that his own education had been neglected, and repeatedly point out, in pompous orations to Georgy, the necessity and excellence of classical acquirements.
这个孩子比他的父亲拥有更多的奢侈和享受。奥斯本的商业近年来非常繁荣。他的财富和在这座城市的重要性大大增加。以前他很高兴能把老乔治送到一所好的私立学校；现在他已经很高兴了。儿子在军队服役的经历让他感到非常自豪。对于小乔治和他的未来前景，老人看起来要高得多。他会让这个小家伙成为一个绅士，这是奥斯本先生对小乔吉经常说的一句话。他在脑海中看到了他，一位大学生，一位议员，或许还有一位准男爵。老人想，如果他能看到自己的孙子以公平的方式获得这样的荣誉，他就会心满意足。他只希望有一个顶尖的大学生来教育他——没有江湖庸医和冒充者——不，不。几年前，他还很野蛮，猛烈抨击所有的牧师、学者之类的人，宣称他们是一群骗子和庸医，除了苦读拉丁语和希腊语之外，根本不配谋生。一群目空一切的狗，假装瞧不起英国商人和绅士，他们可以买下半百只。现在，他会以非常庄严的方式哀悼自己的教育被忽视，并在对乔治的浮夸演讲中反复指出古典知识的必要性和卓越性。

When they met at dinner the grandsire used to ask the lad what he had been reading during the day, and was greatly interested at the report the boy gave of his own studies, pretending to understand little George when he spoke regarding them. He made a hundred blunders and showed his ignorance many a time. It did not increase the respect which the child had for his senior. A quick brain and a better education elsewhere showed the boy very soon that his grandsire was a dullard, and he began accordingly to command him and to look down upon him; for his previous education, humble and contracted as it had been, had made a much better gentleman of Georgy than any plans of his grandfather could make him. He had been brought up by a kind, weak, and tender woman, who had no pride about anything but about him, and whose heart was so pure and whose bearing was so meek and humble that she could not but needs be a true lady. She busied herself in gentle offices and quiet duties; if she never said brilliant things, she never spoke or thought unkind ones; guileless and artless, loving and pure, indeed how could our poor little Amelia be other than a real gentlewoman!
当他们在晚餐上见面时，祖父常常问小伙子白天读了什么，并对男孩所做的自己的学习报告非常感兴趣，当他谈论这些时，他假装理解小乔治。他犯了一百个错误，多次暴露了他的无知。这并没有增加孩子对长辈的尊重。聪明的头脑和在其他地方接受过的更好的教育很快就让这个男孩看出他的祖父是个笨蛋，于是他开始相应地命令他并瞧不起他。因为他以前所受的教育虽然谦逊而简朴，但却使乔治成为了一个比他祖父的任何计划都更优秀的绅士。他是由一个善良、软弱、温柔的女人抚养长大的，她除了为他以外没有任何骄傲，她的心是那么纯洁，她的举止是那么温顺和谦虚，她不得不成为一个真正的淑女。她忙于温和的办公室和安静的职责。如果她从来没有说过精彩的话，那么她也从来没有说过或想过不友善的事情。朴实无华，可爱又纯洁，我们可怜的小阿米莉亚怎么可能不是一个真正的淑女呢！

Young Georgy lorded over this soft and yielding nature; and the contrast of its simplicity and delicacy with the coarse pomposity of the dull old man with whom he next came in contact made him lord over the latter too. If he had been a Prince Royal he could not have been better brought up to think well of himself.
年轻的乔治驾驭着这种温柔、顺从的性格。它的朴素和精致与他接下来接触到的那个迟钝的老人的粗俗浮夸形成鲜明对比，这使他也对后者产生了主宰感。如果他是一位皇家王子，他就不可能更好地自视甚高。

Whilst his mother was yearning after him at home, and I do believe every hour of the day, and during most hours of the sad lonely nights, thinking of him, this young gentleman had a number of pleasures and consolations administered to him, which made him for his part bear the separation from Amelia very easily. Little boys who cry when they are going to school cry because they are going to a very uncomfortable place. It is only a few who weep from sheer affection. When you think that the eyes of your childhood dried at the sight of a piece of gingerbread, and that a plum cake was a compensation for the agony of parting with your mamma and sisters, oh my friend and brother, you need not be too confident of your own fine feelings.
当他的母亲在家里思念他时，我确实相信，在一天中的每时每刻，以及在悲伤孤独的夜晚的大部分时间里，他都在想着他，这位年轻的绅士给了他许多快乐和安慰，这使他感到非常高兴。就他而言，他很容易承受与阿米莉亚的分离。上学时哭泣的小男孩之所以哭是因为他们要去一个非常不舒服的地方。只有少数人会因为纯粹的感情而哭泣。当你以为童年时看到一块姜饼眼睛就会干涩，以为一块李子蛋糕是对与妈妈和姐妹分离的痛苦的补偿时，哦我的朋友和兄弟，你不必太自信你自己的美好感觉。

Well, then, Master George Osborne had every comfort and luxury that a wealthy and lavish old grandfather thought fit to provide. The coachman was instructed to purchase for him the handsomest pony which could be bought for money, and on this George was taught to ride, first at a riding-school, whence, after having performed satisfactorily without stirrups, and over the leaping-bar, he was conducted through the New Road to Regent’s Park, and then to Hyde Park, where he rode in state with Martin the coachman behind him. Old Osborne, who took matters more easily in the City now, where he left his affairs to his junior partners, would often ride out with Miss O. in the same fashionable direction. As little Georgy came cantering up with his dandified air and his heels down, his grandfather would nudge the lad’s aunt and say, ‘Look, Miss O.’ And he would laugh, and his face would grow red with pleasure, as he nodded out of the window to the boy, as the groom saluted the carriage, and the footman saluted Master George. Here too his aunt, Mrs. Frederick Bullock (whose chariot might daily be seen in the Ring, with bullocks or emblazoned on the panels and harness, and three pasty-faced little Bullocks, covered with cockades and feathers, staring from the windows) Mrs. Frederick Bullock, I say, flung glances of the bitterest hatred at the little upstart as he rode by with his hand on his side and his hat on one ear, as proud as a lord.
那么，乔治·奥斯本大师拥有一位富有而奢侈的老祖父认为适合提供的一切舒适和奢华。车夫被指示为他购买一匹最漂亮的小马，这是可以用钱买的，乔治就在这匹马上被教骑马，首先在骑术学校，在那里，在没有马镫的情况下表现令人满意后，并越过跳跃栏，他被引导穿过新路到达摄政公园，然后到达海德公园，在那里他在马车夫马丁的陪伴下骑着马。老奥斯本现在在伦敦城处理事情变得更加轻松，他把自己的事务留给了他的初级合伙人，经常和O小姐一起沿着同样的时尚方向骑行。当小乔治迈着花花公子的姿态、踩着高跟鞋慢跑过来时，他的祖父会用肘轻推小伙子的姨妈，说：“看，O小姐。”然后他就会笑起来，他的脸会因为高兴而变得通红，点点头。新郎向马车行礼，男仆向乔治少爷行礼。这里还有他的姨妈弗雷德里克·布洛克夫人（她的战车每天都可以在拳击场上看到，车的面板和马具上都装饰着公牛，还有三只脸色苍白的小布洛克，身上覆盖着帽徽和羽毛，从窗户里凝视着）弗雷德里克·布洛克，我说，当这个小暴发户骑着马经过时，他手放在身侧，帽子戴在一只耳朵上，像一位贵族一样骄傲，他向他投来了最痛苦的仇恨的目光。

Though he was scarcely eleven years of age, Master George wore straps and the most beautiful little boots like a man. He had gilt spurs, and a gold-headed whip, and a fine pin in his handkerchief, and the neatest little kid gloves which Lamb’s Conduit Street could furnish. His mother had given him a couple of neckcloths, and carefully hemmed and made some little shirts for him; but when her Eli came to see the widow, they were replaced by much finer linen. He had little jewelled buttons in the lawn shirt fronts. Her humble presents had been put aside—I believe Miss Osborne had given them to the coachman’s boy. Amelia tried to think she was pleased at the change. Indeed, she was happy and charmed to see the boy looking so beautiful.
尽管乔治少爷还不到十一岁，但他却像个男人一样系着皮带，穿着最漂亮的小靴子。他有镀金马刺，一根金头鞭子，手帕上别着一根精致的别针，还有兰姆管道街能提供的最整洁的小山羊皮手套。他的母亲给了他几条围巾，并仔细地为他缝制了几件小衬衫。但当她的以利来见寡妇时，这些衣服就换成了更精致的亚麻布。他的草坪衬衫前面有一颗镶着宝石的小纽扣。她的简陋礼物已经放在一边——我相信奥斯本小姐已经把它们送给了车夫的儿子。阿米莉亚试图认为她对这个变化感到高兴。确实，看到这个男孩如此美丽，她感到高兴又着迷。

She had had a little black profile of him done for a shilling, and this was hung up by the side of another portrait over her bed. One day the boy came on his accustomed visit, galloping down the little street at Brompton, and bringing, as usual, all the inhabitants to the windows to admire his splendour, and with great eagerness and a look of triumph in his face, he pulled a case out of his great-coat —it was a natty white great-coat, with a cape and a velvet collar— pulled out a red morocco case, which he gave her.
她花了一先令为他画了一幅黑色的小侧面像，挂在她床上另一幅肖像的旁边。有一天，男孩按照惯例来访，沿着布朗普顿的小街疾驰，像往常一样，把所有的居民都带到窗前欣赏他的辉煌，他带着极大的渴望和胜利的表情，拉开了他从他的大衣里拿出一个箱子——那是一件漂亮的白色大衣，有斗篷和天鹅绒领子——拿出一个红色的摩洛哥箱子，送给了她。

‘I bought it with my own money, Mamma,’ he said. ‘I thought you’d like it.’
“妈妈，我用自己的钱买了它，”他说。 “我以为你会喜欢的。”

Amelia opened the case, and giving a little cry of delighted affection, seized the boy and embraced him a hundred times. It was a miniature-of himself, very prettily done (though not half handsome enough, we may be sure, the widow thought). His grandfather had wished to have a picture of him by an artist whose works, exhibited in a shop-window, in Southampton Row, had caught the old gentleman’s eye; and George, who had plenty of money, bethought him of asking the painter how much a copy of the little portrait would cost, saying that he would pay for it out of his own money and that he wanted to give it to his mother. The pleased painter executed it for a small price, and old Osborne himself, when he heard of the incident, growled out his satisfaction and gave the boy twice as many sovereigns as he paid for the miniature.
阿米莉亚打开箱子，高兴地哭了一声，抓住男孩，拥抱了他一百次。这是他自己的缩影，做得非常漂亮（虽然我们可以肯定，还不够英俊，寡妇想）。他的祖父希望能得到一位艺术家为他拍的照片，这位艺术家的作品在南安普敦街的一家商店橱窗里展出，引起了这位老绅士的注意。乔治很有钱，他想到要问画家一幅这幅小肖像要多少钱，他说他会用自己的钱来支付，并且他想把它送给他的母亲。高兴的画家以很小的价格完成了这幅画，而老奥斯本本人，当他听说这件事时，他满意地咆哮着，并给了这个男孩两倍于他购买细密画的金币。

But what was the grandfather’s pleasure compared to Amelia’s ecstacy? That proof of the boy’s affection charmed her so that she thought no child in the world was like hers for goodness. For long weeks after, the thought of his love made her happy. She slept better with the picture under her pillow, and how many many times did she kiss it and weep and pray over it! A small kindness from those she loved made that timid heart grateful. Since her parting with George she had had no such joy and consolation.
但与阿米莉亚的狂喜相比，祖父的快乐又算得了什么？男孩的这份爱意让她着迷，她认为世界上没有一个孩子能像她的孩子一样善良。在那之后的好几个星期里，一想到他的爱就让她感到高兴。当这幅画放在枕头下时，她睡得更好了，她亲吻了它多少次，为它哭泣和祈祷！所爱之人的一点点善意，让那颗胆怯的心感激不已。自从与乔治分手后，她再也没有享受过这样的快乐和安慰。

At his new home Master George ruled like a lord; at dinner he invited the ladies to drink wine with the utmost coolness, and took off his champagne in a way which charmed his old grandfather. ‘Look at him,’ the old man would say, nudging his neighbour with a delighted purple face, ‘did you ever see such a chap? Lord, Lord! he’ll be ordering a dressing-case next, and razors to shave with; I’m blessed if he won’t.’
在他的新家，乔治大师像一位领主一样统治。晚餐时，他极其冷静地邀请女士们喝酒，并以令他老祖父着迷的方式摘掉了香槟。 “看看他，”老人会说，用一脸高兴的紫色的脸碰了碰他的邻居，“你见过这样的小伙子吗？主啊主啊！接下来他会订购一个化妆盒和剃须刀；如果他不这样做，我就很幸运。

The antics of the lad did not, however, delight Mr. Osborne’s friends so much as they pleased the old gentleman. It gave Mr. Justice Coffin no pleasure to hear Georgy cut into the conversation and spoil his stories. Colonel Fogey was not interested in seeing the little boy half tipsy. Mr. Sergeant Toffy’s lady felt no particular gratitude, when, with a twist of his elbow, he tilted a glass of port-wine over her yellow satin and laughed at the disaster; nor was she better pleased, although old Osborne was highly delighted, when Georgy ‘whopped’ her third boy (a young gentleman a year older than Georgy, and by chance home for the holidays from Dr. Tickleus’s at Ealing School) in Russell Square. George’s grandfather gave the boy a couple of sovereigns for that feat and promised to reward him further for every boy above his own size and age whom he whopped in a similar manner. It is difficult to say what good the old man saw in these combats; he had a vague notion that quarrelling made boys hardy, and that tyranny was a useful accomplishment for them to learn. English youth have been so educated time out of mind, and we have hundreds of thousands of apologists and admirers of injustice, misery, and brutality, as perpetrated among children. Flushed with praise and victory over Master Toffy, George wished naturally to pursue his conquests further, and one day as he was strutting about in prodigiously dandified new clothes, near St. Pancras, and a young baker’s boy made sarcastic comments upon his appearance, the youthful patrician pulled off his dandy jacket with great spirit, and giving it in charge to the friend who accompanied him (Master Todd, of Great Coram Street, Russell Square, son of the junior partner of the house of Osborne and Co.), George tried to whop the little baker. But the chances of war were unfavourable this time, and the little baker whopped Georgy, who came home with a rueful black eye and all his fine shirt frill dabbled with the claret drawn from his own little nose. He told his grandfather that he had been in combat with a giant, and frightened his poor mother at Brompton with long, and by no means authentic, accounts of the battle.
然而，这个小伙子的滑稽动作并没有让奥斯本先生的朋友们高兴，就像他们让老先生高兴一样。听到乔治插话并破坏他的故事，科芬法官并不高兴。福吉上校对看到这个半醉的小男孩不感兴趣。托菲中士先生的夫人并没有感到特别的感激之情，当他用手肘一扭，将一杯葡萄酒倒在她的黄色缎子上，并嘲笑这场灾难时；当乔治在罗素广场“殴打”了她的第三个儿子（一位比乔治大一岁的年轻绅士，偶然从伊林学校的蒂克勒斯博士家回家过节）时，她也没有更高兴，尽管老奥斯本非常高兴。乔治的祖父因这个壮举而奖励了这个男孩几个金镑，并承诺如果每一个比他身材和年龄都大的男孩都以类似的方式击败他，他就会得到进一步的奖励。很难说老人在这些战斗中看到了什么好处；他有一个模糊的观念，认为争吵可以使男孩变得坚强，而专制对他们来说是一项有用的成就。英国年轻人受到的教育太久了，我们已经失去了理智，我们有成千上万的儿童中所犯下的不公正、痛苦和残暴行为的辩护者和崇拜者。乔治因对托菲大师的赞扬和胜利而满脸通红，自然希望进一步追求他的征服，有一天，当他穿着华丽的新衣服在圣潘克拉斯附近昂首阔步时，一位年轻的面包师男孩对他的外表进行了讽刺评论，这位年轻的贵族精神抖擞地脱下他的花花公子夹克，把它交给了陪伴他的朋友（托德大师，来自罗素广场大科拉姆街，奥斯本公司小合伙人的儿子。），乔治试图殴打小面包师。但这一次，战争的机会并不大，小面包师狠狠地打了乔吉一记耳光。乔吉回家时眼睛里充满了悲伤，他所有漂亮的衬衫褶边都沾满了从他自己的小鼻子里抽出来的红葡萄酒。他告诉他的祖父，他曾与一个巨人作战，并用长篇的、绝不真实的战斗描述吓坏了他在布朗普顿的可怜的母亲。

This young Todd, of Coram Street, Russell Square, was Master George’s great friend and admirer. They both had a taste for painting theatrical characters; for hardbake and raspberry tarts; for sliding and skating in the Regent’s Park and the Serpentine, when the weather permitted; for going to the play, whither they were often conducted, by Mr. Osborne’s orders, by Rowson, Master George’s appointed body-servant, with whom they sat in great comfort in the pit.
这位来自罗素广场科拉姆街的年轻托德是乔治大师的好朋友和仰慕者。他们都喜欢画戏剧人物。用于硬烤和覆盆子馅饼；天气允许时，可以在摄政公园和蛇形公园滑冰；他们经常按照奥斯本先生的命令，由乔治少爷任命的贴身仆人罗森带领去看戏，他们和罗森一起非常舒适地坐在坑里。

In the company of this gentleman they visited all the principal theatres of the metropolis; knew the names of all the actors from Drury Lane to Sadler’s Wells; and performed, indeed, many of the plays to the Todd family and their youthful friends, with West’s famous characters, on their pasteboard theatre. Rowson, the footman, who was of a generous disposition, would not unfrequently, when in cash, treat his young master to oysters after the play, and to a glass of rum-shrub for a night-cap. We may be pretty certain that Mr. Rowson profited in his turn by his young master’s liberality and gratitude for the pleasures to which the footman inducted him.
在这位先生的陪伴下，他们参观了这座大都市的所有主要剧院。知道从德鲁里巷到萨德勒威尔斯所有演员的名字；事实上，他们在纸板剧院上为托德一家和他们的年轻朋友表演了许多戏剧，其中包括韦斯特的著名角色。男仆罗森性情慷慨，在有现金的情况下，比赛结束后经常请他的少爷吃牡蛎，睡前喝一杯朗姆酒。我们可以相当肯定，罗森先生也从他年轻主人的慷慨和对男仆引导他享受快乐的感激之情中获益。

A famous tailor from the West End of the town—Mr. Osborne would have none of your City or Holborn bunglers, he said, for the boy (though a City tailor was good enough for HIM)—was summoned to ornament little George’s person, and was told to spare no expense in so doing. So, Mr. Woolsey, of Conduit Street, gave a loose to his imagination and sent the child home fancy trousers, fancy waistcoats, and fancy jackets enough to furnish a school of little dandies. Georgy had little white waistcoats for evening parties, and little cut velvet waistcoats for dinners, and a dear little darling shawl dressing-gown, for all the world like a little man. He dressed for dinner every day, ‘like a regular West End swell,’ as his grandfather remarked; one of the domestics was affected to his special service, attended him at his toilette, answered his bell, and brought him his letters always on a silver tray.
来自该镇西区的一位著名裁缝——先生。奥斯本不会拥有你的城市或霍尔本笨手笨脚的东西，他说，因为这个男孩（尽管城市裁缝对他来说已经足够好了）——被召唤来装饰小乔治的身体，并被告知要不惜一切代价这样做。于是，来自干德街的伍尔西先生充分发挥了他的想象力，给孩子送回家了漂亮的裤子、漂亮的背心和漂亮的夹克，这些衣服足以供一群小纨绔子弟使用。乔吉在晚会上穿着白色小背心，在晚餐时穿着剪裁天鹅绒小背心，还有一件可爱的小披肩晨衣，就像一个小个子男人一样。正如他的祖父所说，他每天晚餐时都穿着“像伦敦西区的普通人一样”。一名仆人受到了他的特殊服务的影响，帮他上厕所，应了他的门铃，并总是用一个银托盘给他送信。

Georgy, after breakfast, would sit in the arm-chair in the diningroom and read the Morning Post, just like a grown-up man. ‘How he DU dam and swear,’ the servants would cry, delighted at his precocity. Those who remembered the Captain his father, declared Master George was his Pa, every inch of him. He made the house lively by his activity, his imperiousness, his scolding, and his good-nature.
早餐后，乔治会坐在餐厅的扶手椅上阅读《晨报》，就像一个成年人一样。 “他怎么发誓，”仆人们会喊道，为他的早熟而高兴。那些记得他父亲上尉的人都宣称，乔治少爷就是他的爸爸，每一寸都是他的爸爸。他的活跃、他的专横、他的责骂和他的善良使家里热闹起来。

George’s education was confided to a neighbouring scholar and private pedagogue who ‘prepared young noblemen and gentlemen for the Universities, the senate, and the learned professions: whose system did not embrace the degrading corporal severities still practised at the ancient places of education, and in whose family the pupils would find the elegances of refined society and the confidence and affection of a home.’ It was in this way that the Reverend Lawrence Veal of Hart Street, Bloomsbury, and domestic Chaplain to the Earl of Bareacres, strove with Mrs. Veal his wife to entice pupils.
乔治的教育被委托给邻近的一位学者和私人教育家，他“为大学、参议院和学术界的年轻贵族和绅士做好准备：其制度不接受古代教育场所仍然实行的有辱人格的肉体严厉程度”。正是通过这种方式，布卢姆斯伯里哈特街的劳伦斯·维尔牧师和巴雷阿克斯伯爵的家庭牧师与夫人展开了斗争。小牛肉他的妻子来诱惑学生。

By thus advertising and pushing sedulously, the domestic Chaplain and his Lady generally succeeded in having one or two scholars by them—who paid a high figure and were thought to be in uncommonly comfortable quarters. There was a large West Indian, whom nobody came to see, with a mahogany complexion, a woolly head, and an exceedingly dandyfied appearance; there was another hulking boy of three-and-twenty whose education had been neglected and whom Mr. and Mrs. Veal were to introduce into the polite world; there were two sons of Colonel Bangles of the East India Company’s Service: these four sat down to dinner at Mrs. Veal’s genteel board, when Georgy was introduced to her establishment.
通过如此刻苦的宣传和推动，家庭牧师和他的夫人通常成功地吸引了一两个学者在他们身边——他们支付了高额费用，并且被认为住在异常舒适的地方。有一个身材高大的西印度人，没有人来看他，他有着桃花心木的肤色、毛茸茸的脑袋和极其花哨的外表。还有另一个三二十岁的魁梧男孩，他的教育被忽视了，维尔先生和夫人要把他带入上流社会。东印度公司服务部的班格斯上校有两个儿子：当乔治被介绍到维尔夫人的机构时，这四个人在维尔夫人优雅的董事会里坐下来吃晚饭。

Georgy was, like some dozen other pupils, only a day boy; he arrived in the morning under the guardianship of his friend Mr. Rowson, and if it was fine, would ride away in the afternoon on his pony, followed by the groom. The wealth of his grandfather was reported in the school to be prodigious. The Rev. Mr. Veal used to compliment Georgy upon it personally, warning him that he was destined for a high station; that it became him to prepare, by sedulity and docility in youth, for the lofty duties to which he would be called in mature age; that obedience in the child was the best preparation for command in the man; and that he therefore begged George would not bring toffee into the school and ruin the health of the Masters Bangles, who had everything they wanted at the elegant and abundant table of Mrs. Veal.
乔治和其他几十个学生一样，只是走读生。他早上在朋友罗森先生的监护下到达，如果天气好的话，他会在下午骑着他的小马离开，新郎跟在后面。据学校报道，他祖父的财富非常惊人。维尔牧师先生常常亲自称赞乔治，警告他注定会获得很高的地位。他在年轻时就应该通过勤奋和温顺为成年后将承担的崇高职责做好准备。孩子的服从是为男人指挥的最好准备。因此，他恳求乔治不要把太妃糖带进学校，以免破坏手镯大师们的健康，他们在维尔夫人优雅而丰盛的餐桌上拥有了他们想要的一切。

With respect to learning, ‘the Curriculum,’ as Mr. Veal loved to call it, was of prodigious extent, and the young gentlemen in Hart Street might learn a something of every known science. The Rev. Mr. Veal had an orrery, an electrifying machine, a turning lathe, a theatre (in the wash-house), a chemical apparatus, and what he called a select library of all the works of the best authors of ancient and modern times and languages. He took the boys to the British Museum and descanted upon the antiquities and the specimens of natural history there, so that audiences would gather round him as he spoke, and all Bloomsbury highly admired him as a prodigiously well-informed man. And whenever he spoke (which he did almost always), he took care to produce the very finest and longest words of which the vocabulary gave him the use, rightly judging that it was as cheap to employ a handsome, large, and sonorous epithet, as to use a little stingy one.
在学习方面，维尔先生喜欢称之为“课程”，其范围非常广泛，哈特街的年轻绅士可以学到每一种已知科学的知识。维尔牧师先生有一个太阳系仪、一台电动机器、一台车床、一个剧院（在洗衣房里）、一台化学设备，以及他所说的一个精选图书馆，里面收录了古代和现代最优秀作家的所有作品。现代和语言。他带着孩子们去了大英博物馆，仔细参观了那里的古物和自然历史标本，这样当他讲话时，观众就会聚集在他周围，整个布卢姆斯伯里都高度钦佩他是一个消息灵通的人。每当他说话时（他几乎总是这样做），他都会小心翼翼地使用词汇所提供的最优美、最长的单词，并正确地判断出使用漂亮、大而响亮的绰号同样便宜，至于用得小气一点的。

Thus he would say to George in school, ‘I observed on my return home from taking the indulgence of an evening’s scientific conversation with my excellent friend Doctor Bulders—a true archaeologian, gentlemen, a true archaeologian—that the windows of your venerated grandfather’s almost princely mansion in Russell Square were illuminated as if for the purposes of festivity. Am I right in my conjecture that Mr. Osborne entertained a society of chosen spirits round his sumptuous board last night?’
因此，他会在学校里对乔治说：“我在与我的优秀朋友布尔德斯博士——一位真正的考古学家，先生们，一位真正的考古学家——进行了一个晚上的科学谈话后回到家，发现你们尊敬的祖父的窗户几乎罗素广场的王宫被灯光照亮，仿佛为了庆祝节日。我的猜测是否正确，奥斯本先生昨晚在他的豪华餐桌旁招待了一群精选的灵魂？

Little Georgy, who had considerable humour, and used to mimic Mr. Veal to his face with great spirit and dexterity, would reply that Mr. V. was quite correct in his surmise.
小乔治非常幽默，经常当着维尔先生的面模仿他的精神和灵巧，他会回答说，V先生的猜测是完全正确的。

‘Then those friends who had the honour of partaking of Mr. Osborne’s hospitality, gentlemen, had no reason, I will lay any wager, to complain of their repast. I myself have been more than once so favoured. (By the way, Master Osborne, you came a little late this morning, and have been a defaulter in this respect more than once.) I myself, I say, gentlemen, humble as I am, have been found not unworthy to share Mr. Osborne’s elegant hospitality. And though I have feasted with the great and noble of the world—for I presume that I may call my excellent friend and patron, the Right Honourable George Earl of Bareacres, one of the number—yet I assure you that the board of the British merchant was to the full as richly served, and his reception as gratifying and noble. Mr. Bluck, sir, we will resume, if you please, that passage of Eutropis, which was interrupted by the late arrival of Master Osborne.’
“先生们，那些有幸受到奥斯本先生热情款待的朋友们，我敢打赌，没有理由抱怨他们的饭菜。我自己就不止一次受到过这样的青睐。 （顺便说一句，奥斯本少爷，今天早上你们来得有点晚，而且在这方面已经不止一次地失职了。）我本人，我说，先生们，尽管我很谦虚，但我发现我不值得与先生分享。奥斯本的优雅待客。尽管我与世界上的伟人和贵族一起享用了盛宴——因为我想我可以称我的优秀朋友和赞助人，巴里亚克斯的乔治伯爵阁下为其中之一——但我向你们保证，英国董事会商人得到了充分的服务，他的接待也是令人满意和高贵的。布拉克先生，先生，如果您愿意的话，我们将恢复尤特罗皮斯号的航道，该航道因奥斯本大师迟到而中断。

To this great man George’s education was for some time entrusted. Amelia was bewildered by his phrases, but thought him a prodigy of learning. That poor widow made friends of Mrs. Veal, for reasons of her own. She liked to be in the house and see Georgy coming to school there. She liked to be asked to Mrs. Veal’s conversazioni, which took place once a month (as you were informed on pink cards, with AOHNH engraved on them), and where the professor welcomed his pupils and their friends to weak tea and scientific conversation. Poor little Amelia never missed one of these entertainments and thought them delicious so long as she might have Georgy sitting by her. And she would walk from Brompton in any weather, and embrace Mrs. Veal with tearful gratitude for the delightful evening she had passed, when, the company having retired and Georgy gone off with Mr. Rowson, his attendant, poor Mrs. Osborne put on her cloaks and her shawls preparatory to walking home.
乔治的教育曾一度委托给这位伟人。阿米莉亚对他的话感到困惑，但认为他是一个学识奇才。那个可怜的寡妇出于自己的原因与维尔太太成了朋友。她喜欢待在房子里，看到乔治在那里上学。她喜欢被邀请参加维尔夫人的谈话，这种谈话每月举行一次（你会在粉红色的卡片上得知，上面刻有 AOHNH），教授欢迎他的学生和他们的朋友喝茶并进行科学对话。可怜的小阿米莉亚从来没有错过任何一项娱乐活动，她认为只要乔治坐在她身边，它们就会很美味。无论天气如何，她都会从布朗普顿步行过来，怀着含泪的感激之情拥抱维尔太太，感谢她度过了一个愉快的夜晚，当时，公司退休了，乔吉和罗森先生走了，他的服务员，可怜的奥斯本太太穿上了衣服。她穿上斗篷和披肩，准备走回家。

As for the learning which Georgy imbibed under this valuable master of a hundred sciences, to judge from the weekly reports which the lad took home to his grandfather, his progress was remarkable. The names of a score or more of desirable branches of knowledge were printed in a table, and the pupil’s progress in each was marked by the professor. In Greek Georgy was pronounced aristos, in Latin optimus, in French tres bien, and so forth; and everybody had prizes for everything at the end of the year. Even Mr. Swartz, the woolyheaded young gentleman, and half-brother to the Honourable Mrs. Mac Mull, and Mr. Bluck, the neglected young pupil of three-and-twenty from the agricultural district, and that idle young scapegrace of a Master Todd before mentioned, received little eighteen-penny books, with ‘Athene’ engraved on them, and a pompous Latin inscription from the professor to his young friends.
至于乔治在这位百学大师的指导下所吸收的学识，从这小伙子带回家给祖父的每周报告来看，他的进步是惊人的。几十个或多个理想知识分支的名称被打印在表格中，学生在每个分支上的进步都由教授标记。在希腊语中，Georgy 发音为 aristos，在拉丁语中发音为 optimus，在法语中发音为 tres bien，等等。到了年底，每个人都获得了所有的奖品。就连斯沃茨先生，这位头脑糊涂的年轻绅士，尊敬的麦克马尔夫人同父异母的兄弟，还有布拉克先生，这位来自农业区的三二十岁的年轻学生，以及那个无所事事的年轻鬼才托德之前提到过，收到了十八便士的小书，上面刻着“雅典娜”，还有教授写给他年轻朋友们的浮夸的拉丁文铭文。

The family of this Master Todd were hangers-on of the house of Osborne. The old gentleman had advanced Todd from being a clerk to be a junior partner in his establishment.
这位托德大师的家人是奥斯本家族的食客。这位老先生将托德从一名职员晋升为他公司的初级合伙人。

Mr. Osborne was the godfather of young Master Todd (who in subsequent life wrote Mr. Osborne Todd on his cards and became a man of decided fashion), while Miss Osborne had accompanied Miss Maria Todd to the font, and gave her protegee a prayer-book, a collection of tracts, a volume of very low church poetry, or some such memento of her goodness every year. Miss O. drove the Todds out in her carriage now and then; when they were ill, her footman, in large plush smalls and waistcoat, brought jellies and delicacies from Russell Square to Coram Street. Coram Street trembled and looked up to Russell Square indeed, and Mrs. Todd, who had a pretty hand at cutting out paper trimmings for haunches of mutton, and could make flowers, ducks, &c., out of turnips and carrots in a very creditable manner, would go to ‘the Square,’ as it was called, and assist in the preparations incident to a great dinner, without even so much as thinking of sitting down to the banquet. If any guest failed at the eleventh hour, Todd was asked to dine. Mrs. Todd and Maria came across in the evening, slipped in with a muffled knock, and were in the drawing-room by the time Miss Osborne and the ladies under her convoy reached that apartment—and ready to fire off duets and sing until the gentlemen came up. Poor Maria Todd; poor young lady! How she had to work and thrum at these duets and sonatas in the Street, before they appeared in public in the Square!
奥斯本先生是年轻的托德大师的教父（托德大师在后来的生活中将奥斯本·托德先生写在了他的名片上，并成为了一个坚定的时尚人士），而奥斯本小姐则陪同玛丽亚·托德小姐来到圣水池，并为她的门生祈祷-书，一本小册子，一本非常低级的教会诗歌，或者每年一些关于她的善良的纪念品。奥小姐时不时地用她的马车送托德一家出去。当他们生病时，她的男仆穿着宽大的毛绒内衣和背心，把果冻和美味佳肴从罗素广场带到科拉姆街。科勒姆街颤抖着，仰望着罗素广场，还有托德太太，她在用纸剪羊腰肉方面很有手艺，还能用萝卜和胡萝卜制作花、鸭子等，非常值得称赞。他会去所谓的“广场”，协助准备一场盛大的晚宴，甚至根本没想坐下来参加宴会。如果有客人在最后一刻没来，托德就会被请去吃饭。晚上，托德夫人和玛丽亚过来了，轻轻地敲了敲门，就溜了进来，当奥斯本小姐和她的护卫队的女士们到达那间公寓时，她们就已经在客厅里了，准备开始二重唱，唱歌直到下课。先生们上来了。可怜的玛丽亚·托德；可怜的年轻女士！在这些二重奏和奏鸣曲出现在广场上之前，她必须在街上努力弹奏这些二重奏和奏鸣曲！

Thus it seemed to be decreed by fate that Georgy was to domineer over everybody with whom he came in contact, and that friends, relatives, and domestics were all to bow the knee before the little fellow. It must be owned that he accommodated himself very willingly to this arrangement. Most people do so. And Georgy liked to play the part of master and perhaps had a natural aptitude for it.
因此，命运似乎注定了，乔吉对所有与他接触过的人都是霸道的，而朋友、亲戚和仆人都必须在这个小家伙面前跪下。必须承认，他非常乐意接受这样的安排。大多数人都是这样做的。乔吉喜欢扮演主人的角色，或许也有这种天赋。

In Russell Square everybody was afraid of Mr. Osborne, and Mr. Osborne was afraid of Georgy. The boy’s dashing manners, and offhand rattle about books and learning, his likeness to his father (dead unreconciled in Brussels yonder) awed the old gentleman and gave the young boy the mastery. The old man would start at some hereditary feature or tone unconsciously used by the little lad, and fancy that George’s father was again before him. He tried by indulgence to the grandson to make up for harshness to the elder George. People were surprised at his gentleness to the boy. He growled and swore at Miss Osborne as usual, and would smile when George came down late for breakfast.
在罗素广场，每个人都害怕奥斯本先生，奥斯本先生也害怕乔治。男孩潇洒的举止、随口滔滔不绝地谈论书本和学问，以及他与父亲（在布鲁塞尔不甘心死）的相似之处，让这位老绅士敬畏不已，也让这个小男孩掌握了一切。老人会因为小男孩无意识地使用的某种遗传特征或语气而开始，并想象乔治的父亲又出现在他面前。他试图通过对孙子的宽容来弥补对老乔治的严厉。人们对他对男孩的温柔感到惊讶。他像往常一样对奥斯本小姐咆哮和咒骂，当乔治迟到吃早餐时，他会微笑。

Miss Osborne, George’s aunt, was a faded old spinster, broken down by more than forty years of dulness and coarse usage. It was easy for a lad of spirit to master her. And whenever George wanted anything from her, from the jam-pots in her cupboards to the cracked and dry old colours in her paint-box (the old paint-box which she had had when she was a pupil of Mr. Smee and was still almost young and blooming), Georgy took possession of the object of his desire, which obtained, he took no further notice of his aunt.
乔治的姨妈奥斯本小姐是一位褪色的老处女，由于四十多年的迟钝和粗暴的使用而崩溃了。一个有精神的小伙子想要征服她是轻而易举的事。每当乔治想要从她那里得到任何东西时，从她橱柜里的果酱罐到她颜料盒里破裂且干燥的旧颜料（这个旧颜料盒是她在斯密先生的学生时拥有的，现在仍然在使用）。几乎年轻且盛开），乔吉占有了他渴望的对象，他得到了，他没有再理睬他的姨妈。

For his friends and cronies, he had a pompous old schoolmaster, who flattered him, and a toady, his senior, whom he could thrash. It was dear Mrs. Todd’s delight to leave him with her youngest daughter, Rosa Jemima, a darling child of eight years old. The little pair looked so well together, she would say (but not to the folks in ‘the Square,’ we may be sure) ‘who knows what might happen? Don’t they make a pretty little couple?’ the fond mother thought.
对于他的朋友和亲信来说，他有一个傲慢的老校长，他奉承他，还有一个阿谀奉承的人，他的学长，他可以殴打他。亲爱的托德夫人很高兴把她最小的女儿罗莎·杰迈玛（Rosa Jemima）留给他，她是一个八岁的可爱孩子。这对小情侣看起来相处得很好，她会说（但我们可以肯定，不是对“广场”里的人们）“谁知道会发生什么？”他们不是一对漂亮的小情侣吗？”慈爱的母亲想道。

The broken-spirited, old, maternal grandfather was likewise subject to the little tyrant. He could not help respecting a lad who had such fine clothes and rode with a groom behind him. Georgy, on his side, was in the constant habit of hearing coarse abuse and vulgar satire levelled at John Sedley by his pitiless old enemy, Mr. Osborne. Osborne used to call the other the old pauper, the old coal-man, the old bankrupt, and by many other such names of brutal contumely. How was little George to respect a man so prostrate? A few months after he was with his paternal grandfather, Mrs. Sedley died. There had been little love between her and the child. He did not care to show much grief. He came down to visit his mother in a fine new suit of mourning, and was very angry that he could not go to a play upon which he had set his heart.
精神崩溃、年迈的外祖父同样受制于这个小暴君。他不禁对这个衣着如此考究、身后还有马夫骑马的小伙子敬佩不已。乔治则经常听到他无情的宿敌奥斯本先生对约翰·塞德利的粗俗谩骂和粗俗讽刺。奥斯本过去常常称对方为“老乞丐”、“老煤工”、“老破产者”，以及许多其他带有残酷侮辱性的名字。小乔治怎么会尊重一个如此卑躬屈膝的人呢？在他与祖父在一起几个月后，塞德利夫人去世了。她和孩子之间几乎没有什么爱。他并不愿意表现出太多的悲伤。他穿着一套漂亮的新丧服来看望他的母亲，他很生气，因为他不能去看他心仪已久的戏剧。

The illness of that old lady had been the occupation and perhaps the safeguard of Amelia. What do men know about women’s martyrdoms? We should go mad had we to endure the hundredth part of those daily pains which are meekly borne by many women. Ceaseless slavery meeting with no reward; constant gentleness and kindness met by cruelty as constant; love, labour, patience, watchfulness, without even so much as the acknowledgement of a good word; all this, how many of them have to bear in quiet, and appear abroad with cheerful faces as if they felt nothing. Tender slaves that they are, they must needs be hypocrites and weak.
那位老太太的病一直是阿米莉亚的职业，也许也是她的保障。男人对女人的殉道了解多少？如果我们忍受许多妇女温顺地承受的日常痛苦的百分之一，我们就会发疯。无休无止的奴役聚会，没有报酬；持续的温柔和仁慈遭遇持续的残酷；爱、劳动、耐心、警醒，甚至不需要承认一句好话；这一切，有多少人只能默默承受，面带笑容地出现在外，仿佛什么也没有感觉到。尽管他们是温柔的奴隶，但他们一定是伪君子和软弱的。

From her chair Amelia’s mother had taken to her bed, which she had never left, and from which Mrs. Osborne herself was never absent except when she ran to see George. The old lady grudged her even those rare visits; she, who had been a kind, smiling, good-natured mother once, in the days of her prosperity, but whom poverty and infirmities had broken down. Her illness or estrangement did not affect Amelia. They rather enabled her to support the other calamity under which she was suffering, and from the thoughts of which she was kept by the ceaseless calls of the invalid. Amelia bore her harshness quite gently; smoothed the uneasy pillow; was always ready with a soft answer to the watchful, querulous voice; soothed the sufferer with words of hope, such as her pious simple heart could best feel and utter, and closed the eyes that had once looked so tenderly upon her.
阿米莉亚的母亲从椅子上坐到了床上，她从未离开过床，奥斯本夫人本人也从不缺席，除了跑去看乔治的时候。即使是那些罕见的拜访，老太太也对她感到不满。她曾经是一位善良、微笑、和善的母亲，在她富裕的日子里，但在贫穷和体弱的日子里，她已经崩溃了。她的疾病或疏远并没有影响阿米莉亚。相反，它们使她能够支撑她所遭受的另一场灾难，并因病人不断的呼唤而无法思考这场灾难。阿米莉亚很温和地忍受着她的严厉。抚平不安的枕头；对于警惕、抱怨的声音，他总是准备好轻柔的回答。她用她虔诚单纯的心最能感受到和说出的充满希望的话语来安慰受害者，然后闭上曾经温柔地看着她的眼睛。

Then all her time and tenderness were devoted to the consolation and comfort of the bereaved old father, who was stunned by the blow which had befallen him, and stood utterly alone in the world. His wife, his honour, his fortune, everything he loved best had fallen away from him. There was only Amelia to stand by and support with her gentle arms the tottering, heart-broken old man. We are not going to write the history: it would be too dreary and stupid. I can see Vanity Fair yawning over it d’avance.
然后，她把所有的时间和温柔都花在了安慰失去亲人的老父亲身上，他因遭受的打击而震惊不已，在这个世界上孤零零地站着。他的妻子，他的荣誉，他的财富，他最爱的一切都离他而去。只有阿米莉亚站在一边，用她温柔的双臂支撑着这位摇摇欲坠、心碎的老人。我们不会书写历史：那会太沉闷和愚蠢。我可以看到《名利场》在它上面打哈欠。

One day as the young gentlemen were assembled in the study at the Rev. Mr. Veal’s, and the domestic chaplain to the Right Honourable the Earl of Bareacres was spouting away as usual, a smart carriage drove up to the door decorated with the statue of Athene, and two gentlemen stepped out. The young Masters Bangles rushed to the window with a vague notion that their father might have arrived from Bombay. The great hulking scholar of three-and-twenty, who was crying secretly over a passage of Eutropius, flattened his neglected nose against the panes and looked at the drag, as the laquais de place sprang from the box and let out the persons in the carriage.
有一天，当年轻的绅士们聚集在维尔先生的书房里，巴里亚克斯伯爵阁下的家庭牧师像往常一样喋喋不休时，一辆漂亮的马车驶到了装饰着维尔先生雕像的门口。雅典娜和两位先生走了出来。年轻的班格斯大师冲到窗前，隐隐约约觉得他们的父亲可能是从孟买来的。这位三岁二十岁的大块头学者，正在为尤特罗皮乌斯的一段话偷偷地哭泣，他把被忽视的鼻子压在窗玻璃上，看着拖拉机，因为地方拉奎斯从包厢里跳出来，把里面的人放了出来。运输。

‘It’s a fat one and a thin one,’ Mr. Bluck said as a thundering knock came to the door.
“这是一个胖的，一个瘦的，”当一阵雷鸣般的敲门声响起时，布拉克先生说道。

Everybody was interested, from the domestic chaplain himself, who hoped he saw the fathers of some future pupils, down to Master Georgy, glad of any pretext for laying his book down.
每个人都感兴趣，从家庭牧师本人，他希望他能看到一些未来学生的父亲，到乔治大师，很高兴有任何借口放下他的书。

The boy in the shabby livery with the faded copper buttons, who always thrust himself into the tight coat to open the door, came into the study and said, ‘Two gentlemen want to see Master Osborne.’ The professor had had a trifling altercation in the morning with that young gentleman, owing to a difference about the introduction of crackers in school-time; but his face resumed its habitual expression of bland courtesy as he said, ‘Master Osborne, I give you full permission to go and see your carriage friends—to whom I beg you to convey the respectful compliments of myself and Mrs. Veal.’
那个穿着破旧制服、铜扣子已经褪色的男孩，总是把自己塞进紧身外套里去开门，他走进书房说：“两位先生想见奥斯本少爷。”与那位年轻绅士的早晨，由于在学校时间引入饼干方面存在分歧；但他的脸上又恢复了一贯的温和礼貌的表情，说道：“奥斯本少爷，我完全允许您去见见您的马车朋友——我请您向他们转达我和维尔夫人的恭敬致意。”

Georgy went into the reception-room and saw two strangers, whom he looked at with his head up, in his usual haughty manner. One was fat, with mustachios, and the other was lean and long, in a blue frock-coat, with a brown face and a grizzled head.
乔吉走进接待室，看到了两个陌生人，他像往常一样傲慢地抬起头看着他们。一个很胖，留着小胡子，另一个又瘦又长，穿着蓝色礼服，棕色的脸，头发花白。

‘My God, how like he is!’ said the long gentleman with a start. ‘Can you guess who we are, George?’
“天哪，他太像了！”那位高个子绅士惊讶地说。 “乔治，你能猜出我们是谁吗？”

The boy’s face flushed up, as it did usually when he was moved, and his eyes brightened. ‘I don’t know the other,’ he said, ‘but I should think you must be Major Dobbin.’
男孩的脸涨得通红，就像他受到感动时一样，眼睛也闪闪发亮。 “我不认识另一个人，”他说，“但我想你一定是多宾少校。”

Indeed it was our old friend. His voice trembled with pleasure as he greeted the boy, and taking both the other’s hands in his own, drew the lad to him.
确实是我们的老朋友。当他向男孩打招呼时，他的声音因高兴而颤抖，并握住对方的双手，将男孩拉到自己身边。

‘Your mother has talked to you about me—has she?’ he said.
“你妈妈跟你谈过我——是吗？”他说。

‘That she has,’ Georgy answered, ‘hundreds and hundreds of times.’
“她已经这样了，”乔吉回答道，“有成百上千次了。”

Chapter LVII
第五章


Eothen
埃奥森

It was one of the many causes for personal pride with which old Osborne chose to recreate himself that Sedley, his ancient rival, enemy, and benefactor, was in his last days so utterly defeated and humiliated as to be forced to accept pecuniary obligations at the hands of the man who had most injured and insulted him. The successful man of the world cursed the old pauper and relieved him from time to time. As he furnished George with money for his mother, he gave the boy to understand by hints, delivered in his brutal, coarse way, that George’s maternal grandfather was but a wretched old bankrupt and dependant, and that John Sedley might thank the man to whom he already owed ever so much money for the aid which his generosity now chose to administer. George carried the pompous supplies to his mother and the shattered old widower whom it was now the main business of her life to tend and comfort. The little fellow patronized the feeble and disappointed old man.
老奥斯本选择重塑自己的个人自豪感的众多原因之一是塞德利，他的宿敌、敌人和恩人，在他最后的日子里被彻底击败和羞辱，以至于被迫在法庭上接受金钱义务。伤害和侮辱他最严重的人的手。世间的成功人士时不时咒骂老乞丐，又时不时地解救他。当他向乔治提供钱给他的母亲时，他以残酷、粗俗的方式暗示，让男孩明白，乔治的外祖父只是一个可怜的破产老者和受抚养人，约翰·塞德利可能会感谢这个给予他帮助的人。他已经欠下了如此多的援助资金，现在他的慷慨选择了援助。乔治把这些华丽的物品带给他的母亲和这位心碎的老鳏夫，现在照顾和安慰他们是她生活的主要任务。这个小家伙光顾着这个虚弱而失望的老人。

It may have shown a want of ‘proper pride’ in Amelia that she chose to accept these money benefits at the hands of her father’s enemy. But proper pride and this poor lady had never had much acquaintance together. A disposition naturally simple and demanding protection; a long course of poverty and humility, of daily privations, and hard words, of kind offices and no returns, had been her lot ever since womanhood almost, or since her luckless marriage with George Osborne. You who see your betters bearing up under this shame every day, meekly suffering under the slights of fortune, gentle and unpitied, poor, and rather despised for their poverty, do you ever step down from your prosperity and wash the feet of these poor wearied beggars? The very thought of them is odious and low. ‘There must be classes—there must be rich and poor,’ Dives says, smacking his claret (it is well if he even sends the broken meat out to Lazarus sitting under the window). Very true; but think how mysterious and often unaccountable it is—that lottery of life which gives to this man the purple and fine linen and sends to the other rags for garments and dogs for comforters.
阿米莉亚选择接受父亲敌人手中的金钱利益，这可能表明她缺乏“适当的自豪感”。但适当的骄傲和这位可怜的女士从来没有太多的交集。性情单纯，要求保护；自从她成年以来，或者自从她与乔治·奥斯本不幸的婚姻以来，她就一直生活在贫困和谦卑之中，每天都处于贫困之中，言语刻薄，善意的工作却没有回报，这就是她的命运。你们看到你们的长辈们每天都承受着这种耻辱，在命运的轻视下温顺地受苦，温柔而无怜悯，贫穷，甚至因贫穷而受到鄙视，你们是否曾从你们的繁荣中走下来，为这些可怜的疲惫者洗脚？乞丐？他们的想法本身就是可憎的和卑鄙的。 “一定有阶级——一定有富人和穷人，”迪夫斯一边说，一边喝着他的红​​葡萄酒（如果他能把碎肉送给坐在窗下的拉扎勒斯就好了）。非常真实；但想一想，这是多么神秘且常常无法解释的事情——生命的彩票给了这个人紫色和细麻布，并把其他破布送给了衣服和狗作为被子。

So I must own that, without much repining, on the contrary with something akin to gratitude, Amelia took the crumbs that her fatherin-law let drop now and then, and with them fed her own parent. Directly she understood it to be her duty, it was this young woman’s nature (ladies, she is but thirty still, and we choose to call her a young woman even at that age) it was, I say, her nature to sacrifice herself and to fling all that she had at the feet of the beloved object. During what long thankless nights had she worked out her fingers for little Georgy whilst at home with her; what buffets, scorns, privations, poverties had she endured for father and mother! And in the midst of all these solitary resignations and unseen sacrifices, she did not respect herself any more than the world respected her, but I believe thought in her heart that she was a poor-spirited, despicable little creature, whose luck in life was only too good for her merits. O you poor women! O you poor secret martyrs and victims, whose life is a torture, who are stretched on racks in your bedrooms, and who lay your heads down on the block daily at the drawing-room table; every man who watches your pains, or peers into those dark places where the torture is administered to you, must pity you—and—and thank God that he has a beard. I recollect seeing, years ago, at the prisons for idiots and madmen at Bicetre, near Paris, a poor wretch bent down under the bondage of his imprisonment and his personal infirmity, to whom one of our party gave a halfpenny worth of snuff in a cornet or ‘screw’ of paper. The kindness was too much for the poor epileptic creature. He cried in an anguish of delight and gratitude: if anybody gave you and me a thousand a year, or saved our lives, we could not be so affected. And so, if you properly tyrannize over a woman, you will find a h’p’orth of kindness act upon her and bring tears into her eyes, as though you were an angel benefiting her.
所以我必须承认，阿米莉亚没有太多抱怨，相反带着某种类似感激的心情，拿着她公公时不时掉下来的面包屑，用它们喂养了她自己的父母。她直接理解这是她的责任，这是这个年轻女子的天性（女士们，她还不到三十岁，即使在那个年纪我们也选择称她为年轻女子），我说，牺牲自己和牺牲自己是她的天性。把她拥有的一切都扔到心爱之人的脚下。在那些漫长而吃力不讨好的夜晚，她在家里和小乔治一起锻炼手指。她为父母承受了多少的打击、蔑视、匮乏和贫穷啊！在所有这些孤独的放弃和看不见的牺牲中，她并不尊重自己，就像世界尊重她一样，但我相信她内心认为她是一个精神可怜，卑鄙的小人物，她的生活运气很差。与她的优点相比，实在是太好了。噢，你们这些可怜的女人！噢，你们这些可怜的秘密殉道者和受害者，他们的生活是一种折磨，他们躺在卧室的架子上，他们每天把头埋在客厅的桌子旁；每一个看到你的痛苦，或者凝视那些对你施以酷刑的黑暗地方的人，都必须怜悯你——并且感谢上帝，因为他有胡子。我记得几年前，在巴黎附近的比塞特的白痴和疯子监狱里，看到一个可怜的人在监禁和身体虚弱的束缚下弯下腰，我们党的一个人给了他价值半便士的鼻烟短号或纸“螺丝”。对于这个可怜的癫痫病患者来说，这种善意实在是太多了。他在喜悦和感激的痛苦中哭泣：如果有人每年给你我一千美元，或者拯救我们的生命，我们就不会受到如此影响。 所以，如果你适当地对一个女人施暴，你会发现她身上充满善意，让她热泪盈眶，就好像你是一位造福于她的天使一样。

Some such boons as these were the best which Fortune allotted to poor little Amelia. Her life, begun not unprosperously, had come down to this—to a mean prison and a long, ignoble bondage. Little George visited her captivity sometimes and consoled it with feeble gleams of encouragement. Russell Square was the boundary of her prison: she might walk thither occasionally, but was always back to sleep in her cell at night; to perform cheerless duties; to watch by thankless sick-beds; to suffer the harassment and tyranny of querulous disappointed old age. How many thousands of people are there, women for the most part, who are doomed to endure this long slavery?—who are hospital nurses without wages—sisters of Charity, if you like, without the romance and the sentiment of sacrifice—who strive, fast, watch, and suffer, unpitied, and fade away ignobly and unknown.
诸如此类的一些恩惠是命运赐予可怜的小阿米莉亚的最好恩赐。她的人生一开始并不顺利，最后却落得这样的下场——简陋的监狱和长期的、不光彩的奴役。小乔治有时会去看她的囚禁，并用微弱的鼓励之光来安慰它。罗素广场是她监狱的边界：她偶尔会走到那里，但晚上总是回到牢房里睡觉；执行不愉快的职责；守在吃力不讨好的病床旁；遭受满腹牢骚、失望的晚年的骚扰和暴虐。有多少人，其中大多数是妇女，注定要忍受这种长期的奴役？——她们是没有工资的医院护士——慈善机构的姐妹，如果你愿意的话，没有浪漫和牺牲的情感——她们努力奋斗，快速，观看，受苦，无人怜悯，然后不光彩地和未知地消失。

The hidden and awful Wisdom which apportions the destinies of mankind is pleased so to humiliate and cast down the tender, good, and wise, and to set up the selfish, the foolish, or the wicked. Oh, be humble, my brother, in your prosperity! Be gentle with those who are less lucky, if not more deserving. Think, what right have you to be scornful, whose virtue is a deficiency of temptation, whose success may be a chance, whose rank may be an ancestor’s accident, whose prosperity is very likely a satire.
分配人类命运的隐藏而可怕的智慧乐于羞辱和贬低温柔、善良和智慧的人，并扶植自私、愚蠢或邪恶的人。哦，我的兄弟，在你的繁荣中要谦虚！对那些不那么幸运的人（即使不是更值得的人）要温柔。想一想，你有什么资格蔑视，谁的美德可能是缺乏诱惑，谁的成功可能是偶然，谁的地位可能是祖先的偶然，谁的繁荣很可能是讽刺。

They buried Amelia’s mother in the churchyard at Brompton, upon just such a rainy, dark day as Amelia recollected when first she had been there to marry George. Her little boy sat by her side in pompous new sables. She remembered the old pew-woman and clerk. Her thoughts were away in other times as the parson read. But that she held George’s hand in her own, perhaps she would have liked to change places with.... Then, as usual, she felt ashamed of her selfish thoughts and prayed inwardly to be strengthened to do her duty.
他们把阿米莉亚的母亲埋葬在布朗普顿的教堂墓地里，那天是阿米莉亚第一次去那里嫁给乔治时的阴雨天，漆黑一片。她的小男孩穿着华丽的新貂皮衣服坐在她身边。她记得那位老女议员和店员。当牧师读书时，她的思绪有时会离开。但如果她握着乔治的手，也许她会想换个位置……然后，像往常一样，她为自己的自私想法感到羞愧，并在心里祈祷自己能得到力量去履行自己的职责。

So she determined with all her might and strength to try and make her old father happy. She slaved, toiled, patched, and mended, sang and played backgammon, read out the newspaper, cooked dishes, for old Sedley, walked him out sedulously into Kensington Gardens or the Brompton Lanes, listened to his stories with untiring smiles and affectionate hypocrisy, or sat musing by his side and communing with her own thoughts and reminiscences, as the old man, feeble and querulous, sunned himself on the garden benches and prattled about his wrongs or his sorrows. What sad, unsatisfactory thoughts those of the widow were! The children running up and down the slopes and broad paths in the gardens reminded her of George, who was taken from her; the first George was taken from her; her selfish, guilty love, in both instances, had been rebuked and bitterly chastised. She strove to think it was right that she should be so punished. She was such a miserable wicked sinner. She was quite alone in the world.
于是，她决心竭尽全力，让老父亲幸福。她辛苦劳作、修补补补、唱歌、玩西洋双陆棋、读报纸、为老塞德利做饭，聚精会神地送他到肯辛顿花园或布朗普顿巷，带着不倦的微笑和深情的虚伪听他讲故事，或者坐在他身边沉思，与自己的想法和回忆进行交流，而这位虚弱而爱发牢骚的老人则在花园的长凳上晒太阳，喋喋不休地谈论他的错误或悲伤。寡妇的想法是多么悲伤、多么令人不满啊！孩子们在花园里的斜坡和宽阔的小路上跑来跑去，让她想起了被从她身边带走的乔治。第一个乔治被从她身边夺走了；在这两种情况下，她自私、有罪的爱都受到了谴责和严厉的惩罚。她努力认为自己受到这样的惩罚是正确的。她真是一个可悲的罪人。她在这个世界上非常孤独。

I know that the account of this kind of solitary imprisonment is insufferably tedious, unless there is some cheerful or humorous incident to enliven it—a tender gaoler, for instance, or a waggish commandant of the fortress, or a mouse to come out and play about Latude’s beard and whiskers, or a subterranean passage under the castle, dug by Trenck with his nails and a toothpick: the historian has no such enlivening incident to relate in the narrative of Amelia’s captivity. Fancy her, if you please, during this period, very sad, but always ready to smile when spoken to; in a very mean, poor, not to say vulgar position of life; singing songs, making puddings, playing cards, mending stockings, for her old father’s benefit. So, never mind, whether she be a heroine or no; or you and I, however old, scolding, and bankrupt—may we have in our last days a kind soft shoulder on which to lean and a gentle hand to soothe our gouty old pillows.
我知道这种单独监禁的叙述是令人难以忍受的乏味，除非有一些令人愉快或幽默的事件来活跃它——例如，一个温柔的看守，或者一个爱开玩笑的堡垒指挥官，或者一只跑出来玩耍的老鼠关于拉图德的胡须和胡须，或者特伦克用指甲和牙签挖出的城堡下的地下通道：历史学家在阿米莉亚被囚禁的叙述中没有这样令人兴奋的事件。想象一下她，如果你愿意的话，在这段时间里，她非常悲伤，但在与她交谈时总是准备微笑；过着非常卑鄙、贫穷甚至粗俗的生活；唱歌、做布丁、打牌、补袜子，都是为了她老父亲的利益。所以，不管她是不是女主角，都没关系。或者你和我，无论多么老，多么责骂，多么破产——愿我们在最后的日子里有一个柔软的肩膀可以依靠，有一只温柔的手来抚慰我们痛风的旧枕头。

Old Sedley grew very fond of his daughter after his wife’s death, and Amelia had her consolation in doing her duty by the old man.
妻子去世后，老塞德利变得非常喜欢他的女儿，阿米莉亚在老人的帮助下履行了自己的职责，这让她得到了安慰。

But we are not going to leave these two people long in such a low and ungenteel station of life. Better days, as far as worldly prosperity went, were in store for both. Perhaps the ingenious reader has guessed who was the stout gentleman who called upon Georgy at his school in company with our old friend Major Dobbin. It was another old acquaintance returned to England, and at a time when his presence was likely to be of great comfort to his relatives there.
但我们不会让这两个人长期处于如此低贱和不文雅的生活状态。就世俗的繁荣而言，更好的日子正在等待着他们。也许聪明的读者已经猜到谁是那位和我们的老朋友多宾少校一起到学校拜访乔治的胖绅士。这是另一位老熟人回到了英国，而此时他的出现可能会给他在那里的亲戚带来很大的安慰。

Major Dobbin having easily succeeded in getting leave from his goodnatured commandant to proceed to Madras, and thence probably to Europe, on urgent private affairs, never ceased travelling night and day until he reached his journey’s end, and had directed his march with such celerity that he arrived at Madras in a high fever. His servants who accompanied him brought him to the house of the friend with whom he had resolved to stay until his departure for Europe in a state of delirium; and it was thought for many, many days that he would never travel farther than the burying-ground of the church of St. George’s, where the troops should fire a salvo over his grave, and where many a gallant officer lies far away from his home.
多宾少校轻而易举地从他和蔼可亲的指挥官那里请了假，前往马德拉斯，并可能从那里前往欧洲，处理紧急的私人事务，他从未停止过日日夜夜的旅行，直到到达旅程的终点​​，他的行军速度如此之快，以至于他带着高烧抵达马德拉斯。陪同他的仆人把他带到朋友家，他决定和他住在一起，直到他在精神错乱的状态下前往欧洲。很多很多天来，人们都认为他永远不会走得比圣乔治教堂的墓地更远，那里的军队应该在他的坟墓上齐射，那里有许多英勇的军官躺在远离他的地方。家。

Here, as the poor fellow lay tossing in his fever, the people who watched him might have heard him raving about Amelia. The idea that he should never see her again depressed him in his lucid hours. He thought his last day was come, and he made his solemn preparations for departure, setting his affairs in this world in order and leaving the little property of which he was possessed to those whom he most desired to benefit. The friend in whose house he was located witnessed his testament. He desired to be buried with a little brown hair-chain which he wore round his neck and which, if the truth must be known, he had got from Amelia’s maid at Brussels, when the young widow’s hair was cut off, during the fever which prostrated her after the death of George Osborne on the plateau at Mount St. John.
当这个可怜的家伙躺在床上发烧时，看着他的人可能听到他对阿米莉亚的胡言乱语。在清醒的时候，他再也见不到她的想法让他感到沮丧。他以为他的最后一天已经到来，他庄严地准备出发，安排好他在这个世界上的事务，并将他所拥有的一点财产留给那些他最希望受益的人。他所在的朋友见证了他的遗嘱。他希望下葬时脖子上挂着一条棕色的小发链，如果必须知道真相的话，那是他从布鲁塞尔阿米莉亚的女仆那里得到的，当时这位年轻寡妇的头发被剪掉了，当时她正发烧。乔治·奥斯本死后，在圣约翰山的高原上向她跪拜。

He recovered, rallied, relapsed again, having undergone such a process of blood-letting and calomel as showed the strength of his original constitution. He was almost a skeleton when they put him on board the Ramchunder East Indiaman, Captain Bragg, from Calcutta, touching at Madras, and so weak and prostrate that his friend who had tended him through his illness prophesied that the honest Major would never survive the voyage, and that he would pass some morning, shrouded in flag and hammock, over the ship’s side, and carrying down to the sea with him the relic that he wore at his heart. But whether it was the sea air, or the hope which sprung up in him afresh, from the day that the ship spread her canvas and stood out of the roads towards home, our friend began to amend, and he was quite well (though as gaunt as a greyhound) before they reached the Cape. ‘Kirk will be disappointed of his majority this time,’ he said with a smile; ‘he will expect to find himself gazetted by the time the regiment reaches home.’ For it must be premised that while the Major was lying ill at Madras, having made such prodigious haste to go thither, the gallant —th, which had passed many years abroad, which after its return from the West Indies had been baulked of its stay at home by the Waterloo campaign, and had been ordered from Flanders to India, had received orders home; and the Major might have accompanied his comrades, had he chosen to wait for their arrival at Madras.
他痊愈了，重整旗鼓，又复发了，经历了这样一个放血和甘汞的过程，才显示出他原本体质的强度。当他们把他从加尔各答赶到马德拉斯的布拉格船长登上“Ramchunder East Indiaman”号时，他几乎成了一具骷髅，而且如此虚弱和虚弱，以至于他在生病期间照顾他的朋友预言说，诚实的少校将永远无法幸存。有一天早上，他会在船舷上裹着旗帜和吊床，带着他戴在心里的遗物一起下海。但无论是海风，还是他心中重新燃起的希望，从船铺开帆布、停在回家路上的那一天起，我们的朋友就开始好转，他的情况很好（尽管在他们到达海角之前，他瘦得像灰狗一样。 “柯克这次会对他的多数席位感到失望，”他微笑着说道。 “当团到达家时，他会发现自己被刊登在宪报上。”因为必须有一个前提，当少校在马德拉斯卧病在床时，他如此匆忙地赶往那里，英勇的-th，已经过去了许多年从西印度群岛返回后，它因滑铁卢战役而无法留在国内，并奉命从佛兰德斯前往印度，在国外服役了数年，现在已收到回国的命令；如果少校选择等待他们到达马德拉斯，他可能会陪伴他的战友们。

Perhaps he was not inclined to put himself in his exhausted state again under the guardianship of Glorvina. ‘I think Miss O’Dowd would have done for me,’ he said laughingly to a fellow-passenger, ‘if we had had her on board, and when she had sunk me, she would have fallen upon you, depend upon it, and carried you in as a prize to Southampton, Jos, my boy.’
也许他不愿意在格洛维娜的监护下再次陷入疲惫不堪的状态。 “我想奥多德小姐会为我做的，”他笑着对一位乘客说，“如果我们让她在船上，当她击沉我时，她就会落在你身上，相信这一点，乔斯，我的孩子，把你作为战利品带到了南安普顿。”

For indeed it was no other than our stout friend who was also a passenger on board the Ramchunder. He had passed ten years in Bengal. Constant dinners, tiffins, pale ale and claret, the prodigious labour of cutcherry, and the refreshment of brandy-pawnee which he was forced to take there, had their effect upon Waterloo Sedley. A voyage to Europe was pronounced necessary for him—and having served his full time in India and had fine appointments which had enabled him to lay by a considerable sum of money, he was free to come home and stay with a good pension, or to return and resume that rank in the service to which his seniority and his vast talents entitled him.
事实上，这不是别人，正是我们的粗壮朋友，他也是拉姆彻德号上的乘客。他在孟加拉已经度过了十年。不间断的晚餐、午餐、淡色啤酒和红葡萄酒、大量的切菜工作以及他被迫带到那里的白兰地当尼茶点，对滑铁卢塞德利产生了影响。前往欧洲的航行对他来说是必要的——在印度全职工作并得到了很好的任命，这使他能够存下一大笔钱，他可以自由地回家并享受丰厚的养老金，或者去返回并恢复他的资历和才华所赋予他的职位。

He was rather thinner than when we last saw him, but had gained in majesty and solemnity of demeanour. He had resumed the mustachios to which his services at Waterloo entitled him, and swaggered about on deck in a magnificent velvet cap with a gold band and a profuse ornamentation of pins and jewellery about his person. He took breakfast in his cabin and dressed as solemnly to appear on the quarter-deck as if he were going to turn out for Bond Street, or the Course at Calcutta. He brought a native servant with him, who was his valet and pipe-bearer and who wore the Sedley crest in silver on his turban. That oriental menial had a wretched life under the tyranny of Jos Sedley. Jos was as vain of his person as a woman, and took as long a time at his toilette as any fading beauty. The youngsters among the passengers, Young Chaffers of the 150th, and poor little Ricketts, coming home after his third fever, used to draw out Sedley at the cuddy-table and make him tell prodigious stories about himself and his exploits against tigers and Napoleon. He was great when he visited the Emperor’s tomb at Longwood, when to these gentlemen and the young officers of the ship, Major Dobbin not being by, he described the whole battle of Waterloo and all but announced that Napoleon never would have gone to Saint Helena at all but for him, Jos Sedley.
他比我们上次见到他时瘦了许多，但神态却多了一些威严和庄严。他又重新留起了在滑铁卢服役期间应得的小胡子，戴着一顶华丽的镶有金环的天鹅绒帽子，身上戴着大量的别针和珠宝装饰，在甲板上大摇大摆地走来走去。他在自己的船舱里吃完早餐，穿着庄严地出现在尾甲板上，就好像他要去邦德街或加尔各答航线一样。他带来了一名当地仆人，他是他的贴身男仆和拿烟斗的人，他的头巾上戴着银色的塞德利徽章。那个东方仆人在乔斯·塞德利的暴政下过着悲惨的生活。乔斯像女人一样自负，他花在梳妆打扮上的时间就像任何褪色的美貌一样。乘客中的年轻人，第 150 团的年轻查弗斯和可怜的小里基茨，在第三次发烧后回家时，常常把塞德利拉到球桌旁，让他讲述自己的精彩故事，以及他对抗老虎和拿破仑的功绩。当他参观朗伍德的皇帝陵墓时，他对这些绅士和船上的年轻军官（多宾少校不在场）描述了整个滑铁卢战役，几乎宣布拿破仑永远不会去圣赫勒拿岛。除了他，乔斯·塞德利，一切都没有。

After leaving St. Helena he became very generous, disposing of a great quantity of ship stores, claret, preserved meats, and great casks packed with soda-water, brought out for his private delectation. There were no ladies on board; the Major gave the pas of precedency to the civilian, so that he was the first dignitary at table, and treated by Captain Bragg and the officers of the Ramchunder with the respect which his rank warranted. He disappeared rather in a panic during a two-days’ gale, in which he had the portholes of his cabin battened down, and remained in his cot reading the Washerwoman of Finchley Common, left on board the Ramchunder by the Right Honourable the Lady Emily Hornblower, wife of the Rev. Silas Hornblower, when on their passage out to the Cape, where the Reverend gentleman was a missionary; but, for common reading, he had brought a stock of novels and plays which he lent to the rest of the ship, and rendered himself agreeable to all by his kindness and condescension.
离开圣赫勒拿岛后，他变得非常慷慨，处置了大量的船用物资、红葡萄酒、腌肉和装满苏打水的大木桶，带出去供他私人享用。船上没有女士；少校将优先通行证授予平民，因此他是餐桌上的第一位贵宾，并受到布拉格船长和拉姆彻德号军官的尊重，这是他的军衔所应有的。在连续两天的大风中，他在惊慌失措中消失了，他的船舱舷窗被封死，并留在小床上阅读《芬奇利公地的洗衣女工》，这是艾米丽女士阁下留在拉姆彻德号上的。霍恩布洛尔，塞拉斯·霍恩布洛尔牧师的妻子，当时他们正前往海角，这位牧师绅士是那里的一名传教士；但是，为了供普通阅读，他带来了一批小说和戏剧，并借给船上的其他人，并以他的仁慈和谦逊让所有人都满意。

Many and many a night as the ship was cutting through the roaring dark sea, the moon and stars shining overhead and the bell singing out the watch, Mr. Sedley and the Major would sit on the quarterdeck of the vessel talking about home, as the Major smoked his cheroot and the civilian puffed at the hookah which his servant prepared for him.
很多个夜晚，当船驶过咆哮的黑暗大海，月亮和星星在头顶闪耀，钟声响起，塞德利先生和少校会坐在船的尾甲板上谈论家乡，因为梅杰抽着方头雪茄，平民则吸着仆人为他准备的水烟袋。

In these conversations it was wonderful with what perseverance and ingenuity Major Dobbin would manage to bring the talk round to the subject of Amelia and her little boy. Jos, a little testy about his father’s misfortunes and unceremonious applications to him, was soothed down by the Major, who pointed out the elder’s ill fortunes and old age. He would not perhaps like to live with the old couple, whose ways and hours might not agree with those of a younger man, accustomed to different society (Jos bowed at this compliment); but, the Major pointed out, how advantageous it would be for Jos Sedley to have a house of his own in London, and not a mere bachelor’s establishment as before; how his sister Amelia would be the very person to preside over it; how elegant, how gentle she was, and of what refined good manners. He recounted stories of the success which Mrs. George Osborne had had in former days at Brussels, and in London, where she was much admired by people of very great fashion; and he then hinted how becoming it would be for Jos to send Georgy to a good school and make a man of him, for his mother and her parents would be sure to spoil him. In a word, this artful Major made the civilian promise to take charge of Amelia and her unprotected child. He did not know as yet what events had happened in the little Sedley family, and how death had removed the mother, and riches had carried off George from Amelia. But the fact is that every day and always, this love-smitten and middle-aged gentleman was thinking about Mrs. Osborne, and his whole heart was bent upon doing her good. He coaxed, wheedled, cajoled, and complimented Jos Sedley with a perseverance and cordiality of which he was not aware himself, very likely; but some men who have unmarried sisters or daughters even, may remember how uncommonly agreeable gentlemen are to the male relations when they are courting the females; and perhaps this rogue of a Dobbin was urged by a similar hypocrisy.
在这些谈话中，多宾少校凭着毅力和聪明才智，成功地将谈话转向阿米莉亚和她的小男孩的话题，这真是太棒了。乔斯对父亲的不幸和对他的不客气的申请感到有点暴躁，少校指出了长辈的厄运和年事已高，这让乔斯安抚下来。他也许不喜欢和这对老夫妇住在一起，因为他们的生活方式和时间可能与习惯了不同社会的年轻人不一样（乔斯对此恭维鞠了一躬）；但是，少校指出，对于乔斯·塞德利来说，如果他能在伦敦拥有一所自己的房子，而不是像以前那样只是一个单身汉的住所，那将是多么有利的事情。他的妹妹阿米莉亚将如何主持这次会议？她是多么优雅，多么温柔，举止多么优雅。他讲述了乔治·奥斯本夫人以前在布鲁塞尔和伦敦取得的成功的故事，在那里她受到了非常伟大的时尚人士的钦佩。然后他暗示乔斯送乔吉去一所好学校并把他培养成一个男人是多么合适，因为他的母亲和她的父母肯定会宠坏他。总之，这位狡猾的少校让平民答应照顾阿米莉亚和她不受保护的孩子。他还不知道塞德利这个小家庭发生了什么事，也不知道死亡如何夺走了母亲的生命，财富如何将乔治从阿米莉亚身边夺走。但事实是，这位充满爱情的中年绅士日复一日地想着奥斯本夫人，一心一意地为她做好事。 他用一种他自己都没有意识到的毅力和热诚，哄骗、哄骗、哄骗、恭维乔斯·塞德利。但有些甚至有未婚姐妹或女儿的男人可能还记得，当男性亲属向女性求爱时，绅士们是多么和蔼可亲。也许这个流氓多宾也是受到类似的虚伪的驱使。

The truth is, when Major Dobbin came on board the Ramchumder, very sick, and for the three days she lay in the Madras Roads, he did not begin to rally, nor did even the appearance and recognition of his old acquaintance, Mr. Sedley, on board much cheer him, until after a conversation which they had one day, as the Major was laid languidly on the deck. He said then he thought he was doomed; he had left a little something to his godson in his will, and he trusted Mrs. Osborne would remember him kindly and be happy in the marriage she was about to make. ‘Married? not the least,’ Jos answered; ‘he had heard from her: she made no mention of the marriage, and by the way, it was curious, she wrote to say that Major Dobbin was going to be married, and hoped that HE would be happy.’ What were the dates of Sedley’s letters from Europe? The civilian fetched them. They were two months later than the Major’s; and the ship’s surgeon congratulated himself upon the treatment adopted by him towards his new patient, who had been consigned to shipboard by the Madras practitioner with very small hopes indeed; for, from that day, the very day that he changed the draught, Major Dobbin began to mend. And thus it was that deserving officer, Captain Kirk, was disappointed of his majority.
事实是，当多宾少校登上拉姆楚德号时，病得很重，在她躺在马德拉斯路上的三天里，他并没有开始振作起来，甚至他的老熟人塞德利先生的出现和认出也没有开始。在船上，他为他欢呼雀跃，直到有一天，他们进行了一次谈话，少校懒洋洋地躺在甲板上。他说当时他认为自己注定要失败。他在遗嘱中给他的教子留下了一些东西，他相信奥斯本夫人会善意地记住他，并在她即将缔结的婚姻中感到幸福。 '已婚？乔斯回答道：“不是最重要的。” “他收到了她的来信：她没有提到这桩婚姻，顺便说一句，奇怪的是，她写信说多宾少校要结婚了，并希望他能幸福。”日期是哪一天？塞德利从欧洲寄来的信？平民把它们拿来了。他们比少校晚了两个月；船上的外科医生对他对新病人采取的治疗表示祝贺，这位新病人被马德拉斯医生送到船上，确实希望渺茫；因为，从那天起，也就是他改变吃水方式的那一天起，多宾少校就开始好转了。因此，这位当之无愧的军官柯克船长对他的多数席位感到失望。

After they passed St. Helena, Major Dobbin’s gaiety and strength was such as to astonish all his fellow passengers. He larked with the midshipmen, played single-stick with the mates, ran up the shrouds like a boy, sang a comic song one night to the amusement of the whole party assembled over their grog after supper, and rendered himself so gay, lively, and amiable that even Captain Bragg, who thought there was nothing in his passenger, and considered he was a poor-spirited feller at first, was constrained to own that the Major was a reserved but well-informed and meritorious officer. ‘He ain’t got distangy manners, dammy,’ Bragg observed to his first mate; ‘he wouldn’t do at Government House, Roper, where his Lordship and Lady William was as kind to me, and shook hands with me before the whole company, and asking me at dinner to take beer with him, before the Commander-in-Chief himself; he ain’t got manners, but there’s something about him—‘ And thus Captain Bragg showed that he possessed discrimination as a man, as well as ability as a commander.
经过圣赫勒拿岛后，多宾少校的快乐和力量让所有乘客都感到惊讶。他和见习官们一起嬉戏，和伙伴们一起玩单棍游戏，像个男孩一样跑上裹尸布，有一天晚上，他唱了一首滑稽的歌曲，让晚饭后聚集在一起喝烈酒的所有人都开心起来，他把自己表现得如此快乐、活泼，和蔼可亲的是，即使是布拉格船长，一开始认为他的乘客没有什么东西，并认为他是一个精神不佳的家伙，也不得不承认少校是一位保守但消息灵通且有功绩的军官。 “他的举止一点也不疏远，亲爱的，”布拉格对他的大副说道。 “他不会去罗珀总督府，那里的威廉勋爵和威廉夫人对我同样友善，在整个公司面前与我握手，并在晚餐时邀请我在司令官面前与他一起喝啤酒- 酋长本人；他没有礼貌，但他身上有一些东西——”因此，布拉格上尉表明他拥有作为一个人的辨别力，以及作为一名指挥官的能力。

But a calm taking place when the Ramchunder was within ten days’ sail of England, Dobbin became so impatient and ill-humoured as to surprise those comrades who had before admired his vivacity and good temper. He did not recover until the breeze sprang up again, and was in a highly excited state when the pilot came on board. Good God, how his heart beat as the two friendly spires of Southampton came in sight.
但是，当拉姆彻德号驶离英国不到十天的路程时，多宾变得如此不耐烦和脾气暴躁，这让那些以前钦佩他的活泼和好脾气的同志们感到惊讶。直到微风再次吹起，他才回过神来，当飞行员上船时，他正处于高度兴奋的状态。天啊，当南安普顿两座友好的尖塔出现在眼前时，他的心跳得多么厉害。

Chapter LVIII
第五十八章


Our Friend the Major
我们的朋友少校

Our Major had rendered himself so popular on board the Ramchunder that when he and Mr. Sedley descended into the welcome shore-boat which was to take them from the ship, the whole crew, men and officers, the great Captain Bragg himself leading off, gave three cheers for Major Dobbin, who blushed very much and ducked his head in token of thanks. Jos, who very likely thought the cheers were for himself, took off his gold-laced cap and waved it majestically to his friends, and they were pulled to shore and landed with great dignity at the pier, whence they proceeded to the Royal George Hotel.
我们的少校在拉姆彻德号上非常受欢迎，以至于当他和塞德利先生登上欢迎的岸船时，这艘船将把他们从船上接走，全体船员、人员和军官，伟大的布拉格船长亲自带领，多宾少校欢呼了三声，多宾少校脸红了，低下了头以示感谢。乔斯很可能认为这些欢呼是为自己而欢呼，他摘下金边帽子，向他的朋友们庄严地挥舞着，他们被拉上岸，在码头上庄重地登陆，从那里他们前往皇家乔治酒店。

Although the sight of that magnificent round of beef, and the silver tankard suggestive of real British home-brewed ale and porter, which perennially greet the eyes of the traveller returning from foreign parts who enters the coffee-room of the George, are so invigorating and delightful that a man entering such a comfortable snug homely English inn might well like to stop some days there, yet Dobbin began to talk about a post-chaise instantly, and was no sooner at Southampton than he wished to be on the road to London. Jos, however, would not hear of moving that evening. Why was he to pass a night in a post-chaise instead of a great large undulating downy feather-bed which was there ready to replace the horrid little narrow crib in which the portly Bengal gentleman had been confined during the voyage? He could not think of moving till his baggage was cleared, or of travelling until he could do so with his chillum. So the Major was forced to wait over that night, and dispatched a letter to his family announcing his arrival, entreating from Jos a promise to write to his own friends. Jos promised, but didn’t keep his promise. The Captain, the surgeon, and one or two passengers came and dined with our two gentlemen at the inn, Jos exerting himself in a sumptuous way in ordering the dinner and promising to go to town the next day with the Major. The landlord said it did his eyes good to see Mr. Sedley take off his first pint of porter. If I had time and dared to enter into digressions, I would write a chapter about that first pint of porter drunk upon English ground. Ah, how good it is! It is worth-while to leave home for a year, just to enjoy that one draught.
尽管那华丽的圆形牛肉，以及让人想起真正的英国自酿啤酒和波特酒的银色大酒杯，永远映入从异国归来的旅行者进入乔治咖啡室的目光，但还是那么令人精神振奋。令人高兴的是，一个进入如此舒适温馨的英国旅馆的人很可能会想在那里停留几天，但多宾立即开始谈论邮政马车，一到南安普敦，他就希望上路去伦敦。然而，乔斯那天晚上没有听说要搬家。为什么他要在马车上过夜，而不是在一张巨大的、起伏的、柔软的羽毛床上过夜？这张床已经准备好取代那个可怕的、狭窄的婴儿床了，肥胖的孟加拉绅士在航行期间被限制在这个婴儿床里？在行李清理完毕之前，他无法考虑搬家，或者在他能带着他的钱去旅行之前，他无法考虑旅行。因此，少校被迫在当晚等待，并给家人写了一封信，宣布他的到来，并恳求乔斯答应给他自己的朋友们写信。乔斯答应了，但没有遵守诺言。船长、外科医生和一两个乘客来到客栈，与我们的两位先生共进晚餐，乔斯竭尽全力订了晚餐，并答应第二天与少校一起进城。房东说，看到塞德利先生喝下第一品脱黑啤酒，他的眼睛真舒服。如果我有时间并且敢于题外话，我会写一章关于在英国土地上喝第一品脱波特酒的故事。啊，那该多好啊！离开家一年，只是为了享受那一口水，也是值得的。

Major Dobbin made his appearance the next morning very neatly shaved and dressed, according to his wont. Indeed, it was so early in the morning that nobody was up in the house except that wonderful Boots of an inn who never seems to want sleep; and the Major could hear the snores of the various inmates of the house roaring through the corridors as he creaked about in those dim passages. Then the sleepless Boots went shirking round from door to door, gathering up at each the Bluchers, Wellingtons, Oxonians, which stood outside. Then Jos’s native servant arose and began to get ready his master’s ponderous dressing apparatus and prepare his hookah; then the maidservants got up, and meeting the dark man in the passages, shrieked, and mistook him for the devil. He and Dobbin stumbled over their pails in the passages as they were scouring the decks of the Royal George. When the first unshorn waiter appeared and unbarred the door of the inn, the Major thought that the time for departure was arrived, and ordered a post-chaise to be fetched instantly, that they might set off.
第二天早上，多宾少校出现了，按照他的习惯，胡子刮得干干净净，衣着整齐。确实，早上还很早，屋子里没有人起床，除了旅店里那个漂亮的布茨，他似乎从来不想睡觉。少校在昏暗的过道里吱吱作响，可以听到房子里不同囚犯的鼾声在走廊里咆哮。然后，失眠的布特一家挨家挨户地偷懒，把站在外面的布卢彻家族、威灵顿家族、奥克森尼亚家族的人都聚集起来。然后乔斯的本地仆人起身，开始准备他主人笨重的穿衣器具，并准备好他的水烟袋。然后女仆们站了起来，在过道里遇见了那个黑衣人，尖叫起来，误以为他是魔鬼。当他和多宾在皇家乔治号的甲板上搜寻时，他们被过道里的桶绊倒了。当第一个不剪头发的侍者出现，打开客栈的门时，少校以为出发的时间到了，吩咐人立刻去取一辆马车，准备出发。

He then directed his steps to Mr. Sedley’s room and opened the curtains of the great large family bed wherein Mr. Jos was snoring. ‘Come, up! Sedley,’ the Major said, ‘it’s time to be off; the chaise will be at the door in half an hour.’
然后他走向塞德利先生的房间，打开乔斯先生正在打鼾的家庭大床上的窗帘。 '过来！塞德利，”少校说，“该出发了；半小时后躺椅就会到门口。”

Jos growled from under the counterpane to know what the time was; but when he at last extorted from the blushing Major (who never told fibs, however they might be to his advantage) what was the real hour of the morning, he broke out into a volley of bad language, which we will not repeat here, but by which he gave Dobbin to understand that he would jeopardy his soul if he got up at that moment, that the Major might go and be hanged, that he would not travel with Dobbin, and that it was most unkind and ungentlemanlike to disturb a man out of his sleep in that way; on which the discomfited Major was obliged to retreat, leaving Jos to resume his interrupted slumbers.
乔斯在被子下咆哮着想知道现在几点了。但当他最后从脸红的少校（他从不撒谎，尽管这可能对他有利）敲诈出早上的真正时间时，他突然爆发出一连串的脏话，我们不会在这里重复，但他让多宾明白，如果他当时站起来，他的灵魂就会受到威胁，少校可能会被绞死，他不会和多宾一起旅行，打扰一个人是最不友善和不绅士的行为。人就这样从睡梦中醒来；沮丧的少校被迫撤退，留下乔斯继续他被中断的睡眠。

The chaise came up presently, and the Major would wait no longer.
马车很快就来了，少校不会再等了。

If he had been an English nobleman travelling on a pleasure tour, or a newspaper courier bearing dispatches (government messages are generally carried much more quietly), he could not have travelled more quickly. The post-boys wondered at the fees he flung amongst them. How happy and green the country looked as the chaise whirled rapidly from mile-stone to mile-stone, through neat country towns where landlords came out to welcome him with smiles and bows; by pretty roadside inns, where the signs hung on the elms, and horses and waggoners were drinking under the chequered shadow of the trees; by old halls and parks; rustic hamlets clustered round ancient grey churches—and through the charming friendly English landscape. Is there any in the world like it? To a traveller returning home it looks so kind—it seems to shake hands with you as you pass through it. Well, Major Dobbin passed through all this from Southampton to London, and without noting much beyond the milestones along the road. You see he was so eager to see his parents at Camberwell.
如果他是一位正在旅行的英国贵族，或者是一位携带公文的报纸信使（政府信息通常会更安静地传送），他不可能走得更快。邮差们对他扔给他们的费用感到好奇。当马车从一个里程碑快速旋转到另一个里程碑时，穿过整洁的乡村小镇，那里的地主们带着微笑和鞠躬欢迎他，乡村看起来是多么快乐和绿色。路边漂亮的旅馆，榆树上挂着招牌，马匹和车夫在树荫下喝酒；古老的大厅和公园旁；质朴的小村庄聚集在古老的灰色教堂周围，穿过迷人友好的英国风景。世界上还有这样的人吗？对于一个回家的旅人来说，它看起来是那么的亲切——当你经过它的时候，它似乎在和你握手。嗯，多宾少校从南安普敦到伦敦经历了这一切，除了沿途的里程碑之外，没有注意到太多。你看，他非常渴望在坎伯韦尔见到他的父母。

He grudged the time lost between Piccadilly and his old haunt at the Slaughters’, whither he drove faithfully. Long years had passed since he saw it last, since he and George, as young men, had enjoyed many a feast, and held many a revel there. He had now passed into the stage of old-fellow-hood. His hair was grizzled, and many a passion and feeling of his youth had grown grey in that interval. There, however, stood the old waiter at the door, in the same greasy black suit, with the same double chin and flaccid face, with the same huge bunch of seals at his fob, rattling his money in his pockets as before, and receiving the Major as if he had gone away only a week ago. ‘Put the Major’s things in twenty-three, that’s his room,’ John said, exhibiting not the least surprise. ‘Roast fowl for your dinner, I suppose. You ain’t got married? They said you was married—the Scotch surgeon of yours was here. No, it was Captain Humby of the thirty-third, as was quartered with the —th in Injee. Like any warm water? What do you come in a chay for—ain’t the coach good enough?’ And with this, the faithful waiter, who knew and remembered every officer who used the house, and with whom ten years were but as yesterday, led the way up to Dobbin’s old room, where stood the great moreen bed, and the shabby carpet, a thought more dingy, and all the old black furniture covered with faded chintz, just as the Major recollected them in his youth.
他很遗憾在皮卡迪利大街和他老去的斯劳特一家之间浪费的时间，他忠实地开车去那里。自从他最后一次见到它以来，已经过去很多年了，自从他和乔治年轻时享受过许多盛宴，并在那里举行过许多狂欢以来。他现在已经进入了老伙计的阶段。他的头发已经花白，年轻时的许多激情和感觉也在这段时间里变得灰白。然而，门口站着那个老服务员，穿着同样油腻的黑色西装，同样双下巴，面容松弛，钥匙扣上还挂着一大堆印章，和以前一样，把钱装在口袋里，然后收钱。少校就好像他一周前刚刚离开一样。 “少校的东西放在二十三号，那是他的房间。”约翰说道，脸上并没有表现出丝毫的惊讶。 “我想你的晚餐是烤鸡。”你还没结婚吗？他们说你已经结婚了——你的苏格兰外科医生在这里。不，是第 33 营的亨比上尉，与第 33 营驻扎在仁济。喜欢喝温水吗？你坐马车来干什么——马车还不够好吗？”说完，那位忠实的侍者在前面带路，他认识并记得每一位使用过这座房子的军官，和他在一起已经十年了，就像昨天一样。来到多宾的旧房间，那里放着一张莫林大床，还有破旧的地毯，想想更肮脏，所有的旧黑色家具都覆盖着褪色的印花棉布，就像少校年轻时回忆的那样。

He remembered George pacing up and down the room, and biting his nails, and swearing that the Governor must come round, and that if he didn’t, he didn’t care a straw, on the day before he was married. He could fancy him walking in, banging the door of Dobbin’s room, and his own hard by—
他记得结婚前一天，乔治在房间里来回踱步，咬着指甲，发誓总督一定要醒悟，如果他不醒过来，他也不在乎。他可以想象他走进去，敲响多宾的房间的门，而他自己的房间也紧挨着——

‘You ain’t got young,’ John said, calmly surveying his friend of former days.
“你已经不年轻了，”约翰平静地打量着他昔日的朋友说道。

Dobbin laughed. ‘Ten years and a fever don’t make a man young, John,’ he said. ‘It is you that are always young—no, you are always old.’
多宾笑了。 “约翰，十年的岁月和一场发烧并不能让一个人变得年轻。”他说。 “是你永远年轻——不，你永远老。”

‘What became of Captain Osborne’s widow?’ John said. ‘Fine young fellow that. Lord, how he used to spend his money. He never came back after that day he was marched from here. He owes me three pound at this minute. Look here, I have it in my book. ‘April 10, 1815, Captain Osborne: ‘3 pounds.’ I wonder whether his father would pay me,’ and so saying, John of the Slaughters’ pulled out the very morocco pocket-book in which he had noted his loan to the Captain, upon a greasy faded page still extant, with many other scrawled memoranda regarding the bygone frequenters of the house.
“奥斯本船长的遗孀怎么样了？”约翰问道。 ‘好年轻人。天哪，他以前是怎么花钱的。那天他被从这里带走之后就再也没有回来过。他现在欠我三英镑。看这里，我的书里有它。 “1815 年 4 月 10 日，奥斯本上尉：“3 英镑。”我不知道他的父亲是否愿意付钱给我。”说着，屠杀者约翰掏出一本摩洛哥风格的皮夹，里面记录了他借给英国政府的钱。船长，在一张油腻褪色的纸上仍然存在，还有许多其他关于房子里过去的常客的潦草的备忘录。

Having inducted his customer into the room, John retired with perfect calmness; and Major Dobbin, not without a blush and a grin at his own absurdity, chose out of his kit the very smartest and most becoming civil costume he possessed, and laughed at his own tanned face and grey hair, as he surveyed them in the dreary little toilet-glass on the dressing-table.
约翰把他的顾客引入房间后，便平静地退了出去。多宾少校对自己的荒唐行为不无脸红和一笑，从他的装备中选择了他所拥有的最聪明、最合身的民用服装，并嘲笑自己晒黑的脸和灰白的头发，因为他在沉闷的环境中审视着它们。梳妆台上的小马桶玻璃。

‘I’m glad old John didn’t forget me,’ he thought. ‘She’ll know me, too, I hope.’ And he sallied out of the inn, bending his steps once more in the direction of Brompton.
“我很高兴老约翰没有忘记我，”他想。 “我希望她也会认识我。”他冲出了旅馆，再次迈向布朗普顿的方向。

Every minute incident of his last meeting with Amelia was present to the constant man’s mind as he walked towards her house. The arch and the Achilles statue were up since he had last been in Piccadilly; a hundred changes had occurred which his eye and mind vaguely noted. He began to tremble as he walked up the lane from Brompton, that well-remembered lane leading to the street where she lived. Was she going to be married or not? If he were to meet her with the little boy—Good God, what should he do? He saw a woman coming to him with a child of five years old—was that she? He began to shake at the mere possibility. When he came up to the row of houses, at last, where she lived, and to the gate, he caught hold of it and paused. He might have heard the thumping of his own heart. ‘May God Almighty bless her, whatever has happened,’ he thought to himself. ‘Psha! she may be gone from here,’ he said and went in through the gate.
当他走向阿米莉亚家时，他最后一次与阿米莉亚见面时发生的每一分钟都浮现在这个男人的脑海里。自从他上次来皮卡迪利以来，拱门和阿喀琉斯雕像就已经竖立起来了。他的眼睛和头脑模糊地注意到发生了一百种变化。当他沿着布朗普顿的小巷走去时，他开始发抖，那条记忆深刻的小巷通往她住的那条街。她到底是要结婚还是不结婚呢？如果他和那个小男孩一起见到她——天哪，他该怎么办？他看到一个女人带着一个五岁的孩子向他走来——是她吗？他一想到这种可能性就开始颤抖。当他终于走到她住的那排房子和大门前时，他抓住了门，停了下来。他或许听到了自己的心跳声。 “无论发生什么，愿全能的上帝保佑她，”他心里想。 ‘噗！她可能已经离开这里了。”他说完就进了门。

The window of the parlour which she used to occupy was open, and there were no inmates in the room. The Major thought he recognized the piano, though, with the picture over it, as it used to be in former days, and his perturbations were renewed. Mr. Clapp’s brass plate was still on the door, at the knocker of which Dobbin performed a summons.
她原来住的客厅窗户开着，屋里没有犯人。不过，少校认为他认得那架钢琴，上面还挂着图画，就像以前一样，他的不安又再次出现。克拉普先生的黄铜牌仍然挂在门上，多宾在门环上进行了召唤。

A buxom-looking lass of sixteen, with bright eyes and purple cheeks, came to answer the knock and looked hard at the Major as he leant back against the little porch.
一个看上去很丰满的十六岁姑娘走过来应门，她的眼睛明亮，脸颊发紫，靠在小门廊上，紧紧地看着少校。

He was as pale as a ghost and could hardly falter out the words— ‘Does Mrs. Osborne live here?’
他脸色苍白得像鬼一样，几乎支吾其词——“奥斯本夫人住在这里吗？”

She looked him hard in the face for a moment—and then turning white too—said, ‘Lord bless me—it’s Major Dobbin.’ She held out both her hands shaking—‘Don’t you remember me?’ she said. ‘I used to call you Major Sugarplums.’ On which, and I believe it was for the first time that he ever so conducted himself in his life, the Major took the girl in his arms and kissed her. She began to laugh and cry hysterically, and calling out ‘Ma, Pa!’ with all her voice, brought up those worthy people, who had already been surveying the Major from the casement of the ornamental kitchen, and were astonished to find their daughter in the little passage in the embrace of a great tall man in a blue frock-coat and white duck trousers.
她严肃地盯着他的脸看了一会儿——然后脸色也变白了——说：“上帝保佑我——这是多宾少校。”她颤抖着伸出双手——“你不记得我了吗？”她说。 “我以前叫你糖梅少校。”说到这里，我相信这是他一生中第一次如此表现，少校把女孩抱在怀里，吻了她。她开始歇斯底里地又笑又哭，用尽全力喊“妈妈，爸爸！”，把那些可敬的人带了出来，他们已经从装饰性厨房的窗户上观察了少校，惊讶地发现了他们的女儿。在小过道里，一个身着蓝色长袍和白色鸭腿裤的高大男人怀抱里。

‘I’m an old friend,’ he said—not without blushing though. ‘Don’t you remember me, Mrs. Clapp, and those good cakes you used to make for tea? Don’t you recollect me, Clapp? I’m George’s godfather, and just come back from India.’ A great shaking of hands ensued—Mrs. Clapp was greatly affected and delighted; she called upon heaven to interpose a vast many times in that passage.
“我是个老朋友了，”他说道，但脸不免有些红。 “你不记得我了，克拉普夫人，还有你以前为茶做的美味蛋糕吗？”你不记得我了吗，克拉普？我是乔治的教父，刚从印度回来。”随后，大家握手了——乔治夫人。克拉普深受感动，也很高兴。她多次祈求上天在这段话中介入。

The landlord and landlady of the house led the worthy Major into the Sedleys’ room (whereof he remembered every single article of furniture, from the old brass ornamented piano, once a natty little instrument, Stothard maker, to the screens and the alabaster miniature tombstone, in the midst of which ticked Mr. Sedley’s gold watch), and there, as he sat down in the lodger’s vacant arm-chair, the father, the mother, and the daughter, with a thousand ejaculatory breaks in the narrative, informed Major Dobbin of what we know already, but of particulars in Amelia’s history of which he was not aware—namely of Mrs. Sedley’s death, of George’s reconcilement with his grandfather Osborne, of the way in which the widow took on at leaving him, and of other particulars of her life. Twice or thrice he was going to ask about the marriage question, but his heart failed him. He did not care to lay it bare to these people. Finally, he was informed that Mrs. O. was gone to walk with her pa in Kensington Gardens, whither she always went with the old gentleman (who was very weak and peevish now, and led her a sad life, though she behaved to him like an angel, to be sure), of a fine afternoon, after dinner.
房子的房东和女房东领着可敬的少校走进了塞德利的房间（他记得里面的每一件家具，从旧的黄铜装饰钢琴，曾经是斯托哈德制造商的一个漂亮的小乐器，到屏风和雪花石膏微型墓碑） ，其中塞德利先生的金表滴答作响），当他坐在房客空置的扶手椅上时，父亲、母亲和女儿在叙述中以一千次的突然中断告诉少校多宾了解了我们已经知道的事情，但了解了阿米莉亚的历史中他不知道的细节，即塞德利夫人的去世，乔治与祖父奥斯本的和解，寡妇离开他时的表现，以及她生活中的其他细节。有两三次他想问起婚姻的问题，但他的心却失败了。他不想向这些人揭露。最后，他得知 O 夫人要去肯辛顿花园和她爸爸一起散步，她总是和那位老先生一起去那里（老先生现在非常虚弱，脾气暴躁，尽管她对他表现得很好，但她却过着悲伤的生活）可以肯定的是，像天使一样），在一个美好的下午，晚饭后。

‘I’m very much pressed for time,’ the Major said, ‘and have business to-night of importance. I should like to see Mrs. Osborne tho’. Suppose Miss Polly would come with me and show me the way?’
“我的时间非常紧迫，”少校说道，“今晚还有重要的事情要处理。”不过我想见见奥斯本夫人。假设波莉小姐愿意和我一起去给我带路吗？

Miss Polly was charmed and astonished at this proposal. She knew the way. She would show Major Dobbin. She had often been with Mr. Sedley when Mrs. O. was gone—was gone Russell Square way—and knew the bench where he liked to sit. She bounced away to her apartment and appeared presently in her best bonnet and her mamma’s yellow shawl and large pebble brooch, of which she assumed the loan in order to make herself a worthy companion for the Major.
波莉小姐对这个提议感到既惊讶又着迷。她认识路。她会让多宾少校看。当O夫人离开时，她经常和塞德利先生在一起——离开了罗素广场——并且知道他喜欢坐哪张长凳。她蹦蹦跳跳地回到自己的公寓，不久就戴着她最好的帽子、妈妈的黄色披肩和大卵石胸针出现了，她借了这枚胸针，以便让自己成为少校的配得上的伴侣。

That officer, then, in his blue frock-coat and buckskin gloves, gave the young lady his arm, and they walked away very gaily. He was glad to have a friend at hand for the scene which he dreaded somehow. He asked a thousand more questions from his companion about Amelia: his kind heart grieved to think that she should have had to part with her son. How did she bear it? Did she see him often? Was Mr. Sedley pretty comfortable now in a worldly point of view? Polly answered all these questions of Major Sugarplums to the very best of her power.
然后，那位穿着蓝色礼服、戴着鹿皮手套的军官伸出了手臂，然后他们就愉快地走开了。他很高兴有一个朋友在身边观看他不知何故害怕的场景。他向他的同伴问了一千个关于阿米莉亚的问题：他善良的心想到她不得不与她的儿子分开，他感到悲伤。她是怎么承受的呢？她经常见到他吗？从世俗的角度来看，塞德利先生现在过得舒服吗？波莉尽力回答了糖梅少校的所有这些问题。

And in the midst of their walk an incident occurred which, though very simple in its nature, was productive of the greatest delight to Major Dobbin. A pale young man with feeble whiskers and a stiff white neckcloth came walking down the lane, en sandwich—having a lady, that is, on each arm. One was a tall and commanding middleaged female, with features and a complexion similar to those of the clergyman of the Church of England by whose side she marched, and the other a stunted little woman with a dark face, ornamented by a fine new bonnet and white ribbons, and in a smart pelisse, with a rich gold watch in the midst of her person. The gentleman, pinioned as he was by these two ladies, carried further a parasol, shawl, and basket, so that his arms were entirely engaged, and of course he was unable to touch his hat in acknowledgement of the curtsey with which Miss Mary Clapp greeted him.
在他们散步的过程中，发生了一件小事，虽然本质上很简单，但却给多宾少校带来了极大的快乐。一个面色苍白的年轻人，留着稀疏的胡须，戴着一条僵硬的白色领巾，夹着三明治沿着小巷走来——也就是说，每只手臂上都抱着一位女士。其中一个是一位身材高大、威风凛凛的中年女性，她的五官和肤色与英国国教会的牧师相似，她在他身边行进；另一个是一个身材矮小的女人，脸色黝黑，戴着一顶漂亮的新帽子和帽子。白色丝带，穿着漂亮的紧身衣，中间戴着一块华丽的金表。这位先生被这两位女士紧紧地攥着，他还拿着一把阳伞、披肩和篮子，因此他的手臂完全投入了，当然，他无法触摸他的帽子，以感谢玛丽·克拉普小姐的屈膝礼。向他打招呼。

He merely bowed his head in reply to her salutation, which the two ladies returned with a patronizing air, and at the same time looking severely at the individual in the blue coat and bamboo cane who accompanied Miss Polly.
他只是低下头回应她的问候，两位女士以一种居高临下的态度回应，同时严厉地看着陪伴波莉小姐的穿着蓝色外套和竹杖的人。

‘Who’s that?’ asked the Major, amused by the group, and after he had made way for the three to pass up the lane. Mary looked at him rather roguishly.
“那是谁？”少校被这群人逗乐了，他给三人让路后问道。玛丽有些调皮地看着他。

‘That is our curate, the Reverend Mr. Binny (a twitch from Major Dobbin), and his sister Miss B. Lord bless us, how she did use to worret us at Sunday-school; and the other lady, the little one with a cast in her eye and the handsome watch, is Mrs. Binny—Miss Grits that was; her pa was a grocer, and kept the Little Original Gold Tea Pot in Kensington Gravel Pits. They were married last month, and are just come back from Margate. She’s five thousand pound to her fortune; but her and Miss B., who made the match, have quarrelled already.’
“那是我们的牧师，宾尼牧师先生（多宾少校的抽搐），和他的妹妹B小姐。上帝保佑我们，她过去在主日学校里是如何让我们烦恼的；上帝保佑我们。”另一位女士，就是那个眼睛里有眼垢、戴着漂亮手表的小姑娘，是宾尼太太——也就是以前的格里茨小姐。她的爸爸是一名杂货商，在肯辛顿砾石坑里保留着原始的小金茶壶。他们上个月结婚了，刚从马盖特回来。她的财产有五千英镑；但她和撮合的B小姐已经吵架了。

If the Major had twitched before, he started now, and slapped the bamboo on the ground with an emphasis which made Miss Clapp cry, ‘Law,’ and laugh too. He stood for a moment, silent, with open mouth, looking after the retreating young couple, while Miss Mary told their history; but he did not hear beyond the announcement of the reverend gentleman’s marriage; his head was swimming with felicity. After this rencontre he began to walk double quick towards the place of his destination—and yet they were too soon (for he was in a great tremor at the idea of a meeting for which he had been longing any time these ten years)—through the Brompton lanes, and entering at the little old portal in Kensington Garden wall.
如果说少校之前还抽搐过，那么他现在开始了，用重音把竹子拍在地上，这让克拉普小姐喊道：“法律”，也笑了起来。他张着嘴，沉默地站了一会儿，看着那对渐行渐远的年轻夫妇，而玛丽小姐则讲述着他们的历史。但除了那位可敬的绅士宣布结婚的消息之外，他什么也没听到。他的头脑充满了幸福感。这次邂逅之后，他开始加倍快步朝目的地走去——然而他们太快了（因为他为这十年来一直渴望的一次会面的想法感到极大的颤抖）——通过布朗普顿巷，然后从肯辛顿花园墙上的小旧门户进入。

‘There they are,’ said Miss Polly, and she felt him again start back on her arm. She was a confidante at once of the whole business. She knew the story as well as if she had read it in one of her favourite novel-books—Fatherless Fanny, or the Scottish Chiefs.
“他们在那儿，”波莉小姐说，她感觉到他又回到了她的手臂上。她立刻成了整个行业的红颜知己。她对这个故事了如指掌，就像她在她最喜欢的小说之一——《无父的范妮》或《苏格兰酋长》中读过的一样。

‘Suppose you were to run on and tell her,’ the Major said. Polly ran forward, her yellow shawl streaming in the breeze.
“假设你跑去告诉她，”少校说。波莉向前跑去，她的黄色披肩在微风中飘扬。

Old Sedley was seated on a bench, his handkerchief placed over his knees, prattling away, according to his wont, with some old story about old times to which Amelia had listened and awarded a patient smile many a time before. She could of late think of her own affairs, and smile or make other marks of recognition of her father’s stories, scarcely hearing a word of the old man’s tales. As Mary came bouncing along, and Amelia caught sight of her, she started up from her bench. Her first thought was that something had happened to Georgy, but the sight of the messenger’s eager and happy face dissipated that fear in the timorous mother’s bosom.
老塞德利坐在长凳上，手帕搭在膝盖上，按照他的习惯，喋喋不休地讲着一些关于旧时光的老故事，阿米莉亚以前听过很多次，并耐心地微笑着。最近，她可以想起自己的事情，微笑或做出其他表示认可她父亲的故事的动作，而几乎听不到老人的故事。当玛丽蹦蹦跳跳地走过来时，阿米莉亚看到了她，她从长凳上站了起来。她的第一个念头是乔吉出事了，但看到信使那张热切而幸福的脸，胆怯的母亲心中的恐惧就消失了。

‘News! News!’ cried the emissary of Major Dobbin. ‘He’s come! He’s come!’
'消息！消息！”多宾少校的特使喊道。 ‘他来了！他来了！

‘Who is come?’ said Emmy, still thinking of her son.
“谁来了？”艾米说道，仍然想着她的儿子。

‘Look there,’ answered Miss Clapp, turning round and pointing; in which direction Amelia looking, saw Dobbin’s lean figure and long shadow stalking across the grass. Amelia started in her turn, blushed up, and, of course, began to cry. At all this simple little creature’s fetes, the grandes eaux were accustomed to play. He looked at her—oh, how fondly—as she came running towards him, her hands before her, ready to give them to him. She wasn’t changed. She was a little pale, a little stouter in figure. Her eyes were the same, the kind trustful eyes. There were scarce three lines of silver in her soft brown hair. She gave him both her hands as she looked up flushing and smiling through her tears into his honest homely face. He took the two little hands between his two and held them there. He was speechless for a moment. Why did he not take her in his arms and swear that he would never leave her? She must have yielded: she could not but have obeyed him.
“看那儿，”克拉普小姐回答道，转身指着那儿。阿米莉亚朝那个方向看去，看到了多宾瘦削的身影和长长的影子在草地上悄悄走来。轮到阿米莉亚了，她脸红了，当然，也开始哭了。在这个简单的小动物的所有庆祝活动中，大人们都习惯了玩耍。他看着她——噢，多么深情——她朝他跑来，双手放在身前，准备交给他。她没有改变。她脸色有些苍白，身材有些壮实。她的眼睛还是一样的，善良信任的眼睛。她柔软的棕色头发中几乎没有三道银线。她把双手递给他，抬起头，满脸通红，含泪微笑地看着他那张诚实朴素的脸。他把两只小手放在两只手之间，握在那里。他一时无言以对。为什么他不把她拥在怀里，发誓永远不会离开她？她一定是屈服了：她不得不服从他。

‘I—I’ve another arrival to announce,’ he said after a pause.
“我——我还有一个消息要宣布，”他停顿了一下后说道。

‘Mrs. Dobbin?’ Amelia said, making a movement back—why didn’t he speak?
'太太。多宾？”阿米莉亚说着，向后退了一步——他为什么不说话？

‘No,’ he said, letting her hands go: ‘Who has told you those lies? I mean, your brother Jos came in the same ship with me, and is come home to make you all happy.’
“不，”他说，松开了她的手：“谁告诉你那些谎言的？我的意思是，你的兄弟乔斯和我同船来到这里，他回来是为了让你们都开心。”

‘Papa, Papa!’ Emmy cried out, ‘here are news! My brother is in England. He is come to take care of you. Here is Major Dobbin.’
“爸爸，爸爸！”艾美喊道，“有消息！”我哥哥在英国。他是来照顾你的。这是多宾少校。

Mr. Sedley started up, shaking a great deal and gathering up his thoughts. Then he stepped forward and made an old-fashioned bow to the Major, whom he called Mr. Dobbin, and hoped his worthy father, Sir William, was quite well. He proposed to call upon Sir William, who had done him the honour of a visit a short time ago. Sir William had not called upon the old gentleman for eight years—it was that visit he was thinking of returning.
塞德利先生惊醒过来，浑身剧烈颤抖，然后整理思绪。然后他走上前，向少校行了一个老式的鞠躬，他称少校为“多宾先生”，并希望他可敬的父亲威廉爵士一切顺利。他提议去拜访不久前曾有幸拜访过他的威廉爵士。威廉爵士已经八年没有拜访过这位老绅士了——他正考虑再次拜访那次。

‘He is very much shaken,’ Emmy whispered as Dobbin went up and cordially shook hands with the old man.
“他非常震惊，”艾米低声说道，多宾走上前去，与老人亲切地握手。

Although he had such particular business in London that evening, the Major consented to forego it upon Mr. Sedley’s invitation to him to come home and partake of tea. Amelia put her arm under that of her young friend with the yellow shawl and headed the party on their return homewards, so that Mr. Sedley fell to Dobbin’s share. The old man walked very slowly and told a number of ancient histories about himself and his poor Bessy, his former prosperity, and his bankruptcy. His thoughts, as is usual with failing old men, were quite in former times. The present, with the exception of the one catastrophe which he felt, he knew little about. The Major was glad to let him talk on. His eyes were fixed upon the figure in front of him—the dear little figure always present to his imagination and in his prayers, and visiting his dreams wakeful or slumbering.
尽管那天晚上他在伦敦有这么特殊的事情，但在塞德利先生邀请他回家喝茶之后，少校同意放弃这件事。阿米莉亚把胳膊放在她戴着黄色围巾的年轻朋友的胳膊下，带头回家，这样塞德利先生就落到了多宾的份上。老人走得很慢，讲述了许多关于他自己和他可怜的贝西的古老历史，他曾经的繁荣，以及他的破产。他的思绪就像那些衰弱的老人一样，完全是在过去的时光里。现在，除了他感受到的一场灾难之外，他对现在知之甚少。少校很高兴让他继续说下去。他的眼睛注视着面前的人影——这个可爱的小人物总是出现在他的想象中，出现在他的祈祷中，无论醒着还是睡着，都会出现在他的梦中。

Amelia was very happy, smiling, and active all that evening, performing her duties as hostess of the little entertainment with the utmost grace and propriety, as Dobbin thought. His eyes followed her about as they sat in the twilight. How many a time had he longed for that moment and thought of her far away under hot winds and in weary marches, gentle and happy, kindly ministering to the wants of old age, and decorating poverty with sweet submission— as he saw her now. I do not say that his taste was the highest, or that it is the duty of great intellects to be content with a breadand-butter paradise, such as sufficed our simple old friend; but his desires were of this sort, whether for good or bad, and, with Amelia to help him, he was as ready to drink as many cups of tea as Doctor Johnson.
正如多宾所想，阿米莉亚整个晚上都很高兴，面带微笑，表现得很活跃，以最大的优雅和得体履行了她作为小型娱乐活动女主人的职责。当他们坐在暮色中时，他的目光追随着她。有多少次他渴望那一刻，想起她在遥远的地方，在热风中，在疲惫的行军中，温柔而快乐，仁慈地照顾晚年的需要，用甜蜜的顺从来装饰贫穷——就像他现在看到的她一样。我并不是说他的品味是最高的，也不是说伟大的知识分子有责任满足于一个靠面包和黄油为生的天堂，就像我们简单的老朋友那样就足够了；相反，他的品味是最高的。但他的愿望就是这样，无论是好还是坏，而且，有阿米莉亚的帮助，他准备像约翰逊医生一样喝尽可能多的茶。

Amelia seeing this propensity, laughingly encouraged it and looked exceedingly roguish as she administered to him cup after cup. It is true she did not know that the Major had had no dinner and that the cloth was laid for him at the Slaughters’, and a plate laid thereon to mark that the table was retained, in that very box in which the Major and George had sat many a time carousing, when she was a child just come home from Miss Pinkerton’s school.
阿米莉亚看到了他的这种倾向，笑着鼓励他，一杯接一杯地给他喝，看上去非常调皮。确实，她不知道少校没有吃晚饭，而且在屠宰场已经为他铺好了桌布，上面放了一个盘子，表明桌子被保留在少校和乔治所在的那个盒子里。当她还是个孩子的时候，刚从平克顿小姐的学校回家，她曾多次坐下来狂欢。

The first thing Mrs. Osborne showed the Major was Georgy’s miniature, for which she ran upstairs on her arrival at home. It was not half handsome enough of course for the boy, but wasn’t it noble of him to think of bringing it to his mother? Whilst her papa was awake she did not talk much about Georgy. To hear about Mr. Osborne and Russell Square was not agreeable to the old man, who very likely was unconscious that he had been living for some months past mainly on the bounty of his richer rival, and lost his temper if allusion was made to the other.
奥斯本夫人向少校展示的第一件东西是乔吉的微型模型，她一到家就跑上楼去拿它。当然，对于这个男孩来说，它还不够英俊，但是他想到把它带给他的母亲，这难道不是高尚的事吗？当她爸爸醒着的时候，她并没有过多谈论乔治。听到奥斯本先生和罗素广场的事，这位老人很不舒服，他很可能没有意识到，过去几个月他主要靠更有钱的对手的赏金生活，如果提及奥斯本先生和罗素广场，他就会发脾气。其他。

Dobbin told him all, and a little more perhaps than all, that had happened on board the Ramchunder, and exaggerated Jos’s benevolent dispositions towards his father and resolution to make him comfortable in his old days. The truth is that during the voyage the Major had impressed this duty most strongly upon his fellowpassenger and extorted promises from him that he would take charge of his sister and her child. He soothed Jos’s irritation with regard to the bills which the old gentleman had drawn upon him, gave a laughing account of his own sufferings on the same score and of the famous consignment of wine with which the old man had favoured him, and brought Mr. Jos, who was by no means an ill-natured person when well-pleased and moderately flattered, to a very good state of feeling regarding his relatives in Europe.
多宾告诉了他在拉姆彻德号上发生的一切，也许比全部都多了一点，并夸大了乔斯对他父亲的仁慈性格和让他过上舒适日子的决心。事实是，在航行期间，少校给他的同伴留下了最强烈的印象，并迫使他承诺他会照顾他的妹妹和她的孩子。他安抚了乔斯对老先生向他支取的帐单的恼怒，并以同样的方式讲述了他自己的痛苦以及老先生青睐他的著名的托运葡萄酒，并把乔斯先生带来了。乔斯在受到愉快和适度的奉承时绝不是一个脾气暴躁的人，对他在欧洲的亲戚有一种非常好的感觉。

And in fine I am ashamed to say that the Major stretched the truth so far as to tell old Mr. Sedley that it was mainly a desire to see his parent which brought Jos once more to Europe.
最后，我很惭愧地说，少校夸大了事实，告诉老塞德利先生，主要是想见见他的父母，才让乔斯再次来到欧洲。

At his accustomed hour Mr. Sedley began to doze in his chair, and then it was Amelia’s opportunity to commence her conversation, which she did with great eagerness—it related exclusively to Georgy. She did not talk at all about her own sufferings at breaking from him, for indeed, this worthy woman, though she was half-killed by the separation from the child, yet thought it was very wicked in her to repine at losing him; but everything concerning him, his virtues, talents, and prospects, she poured out. She described his angelic beauty; narrated a hundred instances of his generosity and greatness of mind whilst living with her; how a Royal Duchess had stopped and admired him in Kensington Gardens; how splendidly he was cared for now, and how he had a groom and a pony; what quickness and cleverness he had, and what a prodigiously well-read and delightful person the Reverend Lawrence Veal was, George’s master. ‘He knows EVERYTHING,’ Amelia said. ‘He has the most delightful parties. You who are so learned yourself, and have read so much, and are so clever and accomplished—don’t shake your head and say no—HE always used to say you were—you will be charmed with Mr. Veal’s parties. The last Tuesday in every month. He says there is no place in the bar or the senate that Georgy may not aspire to. Look here,’ and she went to the piano-drawer and drew out a theme of Georgy’s composition. This great effort of genius, which is still in the possession of George’s mother, is as follows:
在他惯常的时间，塞德利先生开始在椅子上打瞌睡，然后阿米莉亚就有机会开始谈话，她非常热切地交谈——谈话只与乔吉有关。她根本没有谈论她自己因与他决裂而遭受的痛苦，因为确实，这个可敬的女人，虽然她因与孩子的分离而半死不活，但她却认为她为失去他而懊悔是非常邪恶的；因此，她认为自己的痛苦是非常可耻的。但关于他的一切，他的美德、才华和前途，她都倾诉了。她描述了他天使般的美丽；讲述了一百个与她同住时他的慷慨和伟大思想的例子；一位皇家公爵夫人在肯辛顿花园驻足欣赏他；他现在受到了多么好的照顾，他有一个马夫和一匹小马。他多么敏捷、多么聪明，乔治的老师劳伦斯·维尔牧师是一个多么博览群书、多么令人愉快的人。 “他什么都知道，”阿米莉亚说。 “他举办了最令人愉快的聚会。你自己是如此博学，读了这么多书，如此聪明，多有成就——不要摇头说不——他总是说你是——你会被维尔先生的派对迷住的。每个月的最后一个星期二。他说，律师界或参议院中没有一个职位是乔治不渴望的。看这里，”她走到钢琴抽屉前，画出了乔吉作品的主题。这份天才的杰作至今仍由乔治的母亲拥有，内容如下：

On Selfishness—Of all the vices which degrade the human character, Selfishness is the most odious and contemptible. An undue love of Self leads to the most monstrous crimes and occasions the greatest misfortunes both in States and Families. As a selfish man will impoverish his family and often bring them to ruin, so a selfish king brings ruin on his people and often plunges them into war.
关于自私——在所有降低人性的恶习中，自私是最可憎、最可鄙的。过度的自爱会导致最可怕的罪行，并给国家和家庭带来最大的不幸。正如一个自私的人会使他的家庭陷入贫困并常常使他们破产一样，一个自私的国王也会使他的人民遭受毁灭并经常使他们陷入战争。

Example: The selfishness of Achilles, as remarked by the poet Homer, occasioned a thousand woes to the Greeks—muri Achaiois alge etheke—(Hom. Il. A. 2). The selfishness of the late Napoleon Bonaparte occasioned innumerable wars in Europe and caused him to perish, himself, in a miserable island—that of Saint Helena in the Atlantic Ocean.
例子：正如诗人荷马所说，阿喀琉斯的自私给希腊人带来了一千种灾难——muri Achaiois alge etheke——（Hom. Il. A. 2）。已故拿破仑·波拿巴的自私在欧洲引发了无数战争，并导致他本人死在一个悲惨的岛屿上——大西洋的圣赫勒拿岛。

We see by these examples that we are not to consult our own interest and ambition, but that we are to consider the interests of others as well as our own.
从这些例子中我们看到，我们不应该考虑自己的利益和野心，而应该考虑别人的利益和我们自己的利益。

George S. Osborne Athene House, 24 April, 1827
乔治·S·奥斯本雅典娜之家，1827 年 4 月 24 日

‘Think of him writing such a hand, and quoting Greek too, at his age,’ the delighted mother said. ‘Oh, William,’ she added, holding out her hand to the Major, ‘what a treasure Heaven has given me in that boy! He is the comfort of my life—and he is the image of—of him that’s gone!’
“想想他在这个年纪写了这样的字，还引用希腊语，”母亲高兴地说。 “哦，威廉，”她向少校伸出手，补充道，“上天在这个男孩身上给了我多么宝贵的财富啊！”他是我生命中的安慰，也是那个已逝者的形象！”

‘Ought I to be angry with her for being faithful to him?’ William thought. ‘Ought I to be jealous of my friend in the grave, or hurt that such a heart as Amelia’s can love only once and for ever? Oh, George, George, how little you knew the prize you had, though.’ This sentiment passed rapidly through William’s mind as he was holding Amelia’s hand, whilst the handkerchief was veiling her eyes.
“我应该因为她对他忠诚而生气吗？”威廉想。 “我是否应该嫉妒我在坟墓里的朋友，或者伤害像阿米莉亚这样的心只能爱一次和永远？哦，乔治，乔治，不过，你对自己获得的奖品知之甚少。”当威廉握着阿米莉亚的手，用手帕遮住她的眼睛时，这种情绪迅速掠过威廉的脑海。

‘Dear friend,’ she said, pressing the hand which held hers, ‘how good, how kind you always have been to me! See! Papa is stirring. You will go and see Georgy tomorrow, won’t you?’
“亲爱的朋友，”她握着她的手说道，“你对我真是太好了！看！爸爸正在搅拌。你明天会去看乔治，好吗？

‘Not to-morrow,’ said poor old Dobbin. ‘I have business.’ He did not like to own that he had not as yet been to his parents’ and his dear sister Anne—a remissness for which I am sure every wellregulated person will blame the Major. And presently he took his leave, leaving his address behind him for Jos, against the latter’s arrival. And so the first day was over, and he had seen her.
“明天不行，”可怜的老多宾说。 “我有事要办。”他不愿意承认自己还没有去过他的父母和他亲爱的妹妹安妮身边——我相信每一个纪律严明的人都会责怪少校的疏忽。不久他就告辞了，留下地址给乔斯，以防乔斯到来。第一天就这样结束了，他也见到了她。

When he got back to the Slaughters’, the roast fowl was of course cold, in which condition he ate it for supper. And knowing what early hours his family kept, and that it would be needless to disturb their slumbers at so late an hour, it is on record, that Major Dobbin treated himself to half-price at the Haymarket Theatre that evening, where let us hope he enjoyed himself.
当他回到屠宰场时，烤鸡当然是冷的，他就在这种情况下把它当晚饭吃了。据记录，多宾少校那天晚上在干草市场剧院以半价款待自己，我们希望在那里他很享受。

Chapter LIX
第五十九章


The Old Piano
老钢琴

The Major’s visit left old John Sedley in a great state of agitation and excitement. His daughter could not induce him to settle down to his customary occupations or amusements that night. He passed the evening fumbling amongst his boxes and desks, untying his papers with trembling hands, and sorting and arranging them against Jos’s arrival. He had them in the greatest order—his tapes and his files, his receipts, and his letters with lawyers and correspondents; the documents relative to the wine project (which failed from a most unaccountable accident, after commencing with the most splendid prospects), the coal project (which only a want of capital prevented from becoming the most successful scheme ever put before the public), the patent saw-mills and sawdust consolidation project, &c., &c. All night, until a very late hour, he passed in the preparation of these documents, trembling about from one room to another, with a quivering candle and shaky hands. Here’s the wine papers, here’s the sawdust, here’s the coals; here’s my letters to Calcutta and Madras, and replies from Major Dobbin, C.B., and Mr. Joseph Sedley to the same. ‘He shall find no irregularity about ME, Emmy,’ the old gentleman said.
少校的来访让老约翰·塞德利心情非常激动和兴奋。那天晚上，他的女儿无法说服他安定下来从事他惯常的工作或娱乐。整个晚上，他都在箱子和桌子中摸索着，用颤抖的手解开文件，并根据乔斯的到来对它们进行分类和排列。他把它们整理得井井有条——他的录音带、他的档案、他的收据、以及他与律师和记者的信件；与葡萄酒项目（在开始时前景最为光明的情况下，由于最无法解释的事故而失败）、煤炭项目（仅因缺乏资金而未能成为有史以来向公众展示的最成功的计划）相关的文件专利锯木厂和锯末整合项目等。整个晚上，直到很晚的时候，他都在准备这些文件，颤抖着从一个房间走到另一个房间，蜡烛颤抖，双手颤抖。这是酒纸，这是锯末，这是煤炭；这是我写给加尔各答和马德拉斯的信，以及多宾少校、C.B. 和约瑟夫·塞德利先生的回信。 “他不会发现我有什么异常，艾美，”老绅士说道。

Emmy smiled. ‘I don’t think Jos will care about seeing those papers, Papa,’ she said.
艾美笑了。 “我认为乔斯不会关心看到那些文件，爸爸，”她说。

‘You don’t know anything about business, my dear,’ answered the sire, shaking his head with an important air. And it must be confessed that on this point Emmy was very ignorant, and that is a pity some people are so knowing. All these twopenny documents arranged on a side table, old Sedley covered them carefully over with a clean bandanna handkerchief (one out of Major Dobbin’s lot) and enjoined the maid and landlady of the house, in the most solemn way, not to disturb those papers, which were arranged for the arrival of Mr. Joseph Sedley the next morning, ‘Mr. Joseph Sedley of the Honourable East India Company’s Bengal Civil Service.’
“你对生意一无所知，亲爱的，”先生回答道，神态严肃地摇着头。而且必须承认，在这一点上艾美很无知，可惜还有人这么懂。所有这些两便士的文件都放在边桌上，老塞德利用一块干净的大手帕（多宾少校的一块）小心地把它们盖住，并以最庄严的方式嘱咐房子的女仆和女房东不要乱动这些文件。 ，这是为第二天早上约瑟夫·塞德利先生的到来而安排的，“先生”。尊敬的东印度公司孟加拉公务员部门的约瑟夫·塞德利。

Amelia found him up very early the next morning, more eager, more hectic, and more shaky than ever. ‘I didn’t sleep much, Emmy, my dear,’ he said. ‘I was thinking of my poor Bessy. I wish she was alive, to ride in Jos’s carriage once again. She kept her own and became it very well.’ And his eyes filled with tears, which trickled down his furrowed old face. Amelia wiped them away, and smilingly kissed him, and tied the old man’s neckcloth in a smart bow, and put his brooch into his best shirt frill, in which, in his Sunday suit of mourning, he sat from six o’clock in the morning awaiting the arrival of his son.
第二天早上，阿米莉亚发现他很早就起床了，比以往任何时候都更加渴望、更加忙碌、更加颤抖。 “我睡得不多，艾美，亲爱的，”他说。 “我在想我可怜的贝西。我希望她还活着，能够再次乘坐乔斯的马车。她保留了自己的风格，而且做得很好。”他的眼睛里充满了泪水，从他布满皱纹的苍老脸上流了下来。阿米莉亚把它们擦掉，微笑着吻了他，然后给老人的领巾打了一个漂亮的蝴蝶结，把他的胸针别在他最好的衬衫褶边上，他穿着星期天的哀悼服，从六点钟起就坐在房间里。早上，等待儿子的到来。

However, when the postman made his appearance, the little party were put out of suspense by the receipt of a letter from Jos to his sister, who announced that he felt a little fatigued after his voyage, and should not be able to move on that day, but that he would leave Southampton early the next morning and be with his father and mother at evening. Amelia, as she read out the letter to her father, paused over the latter word; her brother, it was clear, did not know what had happened in the family. Nor could he, for the fact is that, though the Major rightly suspected that his travelling companion never would be got into motion in so short a space as twenty-four hours, and would find some excuse for delaying, yet Dobbin had not written to Jos to inform him of the calamity which had befallen the Sedley family, being occupied in talking with Amelia until long after post-hour.
然而，当邮递员出现时，这一小群人却因为收到了乔斯写给妹妹的一封信而失去了悬念，信中说他在航行后感到有点疲劳，应该无法继续前进。一天，但他会在第二天一早离开南安普敦，晚上与父母在一起。阿米莉亚在读给父亲的信时，在后一个词上停了下来。显然，她的哥哥并不知道家里发生了什么事。他也不能，因为事实是，虽然少校正确地怀疑他的旅伴永远不会在二十四小时这么短的时间内出发，并且会找到一些拖延的借口，但多宾并没有写信给乔斯告诉他塞德利一家遭遇的灾难，一直忙于与阿米莉亚交谈，直到下班后很长一段时间。

There are some splendid tailors’ shops in the High Street of Southampton, in the fine plate-glass windows of which hang gorgeous waistcoats of all sorts, of silk and velvet, and gold and crimson, and pictures of the last new fashions, in which those wonderful gentlemen with quizzing glasses, and holding on to little boys with the exceeding large eyes and curly hair, ogle ladies in riding habits prancing by the Statue of Achilles at Apsley House. Jos, although provided with some of the most splendid vests that Calcutta could furnish, thought he could not go to town until he was supplied with one or two of these garments, and selected a crimson satin, embroidered with gold butterflies, and a black and red velvet tartan with white stripes and a rolling collar, with which, and a rich blue satin stock and a gold pin, consisting of a five-barred gate with a horseman in pink enamel jumping over it, he thought he might make his entry into London with some dignity. For Jos’s former shyness and blundering blushing timidity had given way to a more candid and courageous self-assertion of his worth. ‘I don’t care about owning it,’ Waterloo Sedley would say to his friends, ‘I am a dressy man”; and though rather uneasy if the ladies looked at him at the Government House balls, and though he blushed and turned away alarmed under their glances, it was chiefly from a dread lest they should make love to him that he avoided them, being averse to marriage altogether. But there was no such swell in Calcutta as Waterloo Sedley, I have heard say, and he had the handsomest turnout, gave the best bachelor dinners, and had the finest plate in the whole place.
南安普敦的大街上有一些华丽的裁缝店，精美的平板玻璃橱窗里挂着各种华丽的背心，有丝绸的、天鹅绒的、金色的、深红色的，还有最新时装的照片，那些戴着好奇眼镜的出色绅士，抱着有着超大眼睛和卷发的小男孩，凝视着在阿普斯利宫阿喀琉斯雕像旁昂首阔步的骑马女士们。乔斯虽然提供了加尔各答可以提供的一些最华丽的背心，但他认为，除非为他提供一两件这样的衣服，否则他不能进城，于是他选择了一件深红色的缎子，上面绣着金色的蝴蝶，还有一件黑色和白色的衣服。带有白色条纹和卷领的红色天鹅绒格子呢，还有一根华丽的蓝色缎子和一枚金别针，由五道栅栏门组成，一个粉红色珐琅骑士跳过它，他认为他可能会进入伦敦有一些尊严。因为乔斯以前的害羞和笨手笨脚、脸红的胆怯已经让位给了更加坦率和勇敢的自我价值主张。 “我不在乎是否拥有它，”滑铁卢·塞德利会对他的朋友们说，“我是一个衣冠楚楚的人”；虽然在总督府的舞会上，如果女士们看着他，他会感到相当不安，尽管他在她们的目光下脸红了，惊恐地转过身去，但主要是因为担心她们会和他做爱，所以他避开了她们，反对婚姻。共。但我听说加尔各答没有像滑铁卢塞德利那样的浮夸，他有最英俊的出席者，举办了最好的单身汉晚宴，并提供了整个地方最好的菜肴。

To make these waistcoats for a man of his size and dignity took at least a day, part of which he employed in hiring a servant to wait upon him and his native and in instructing the agent who cleared his baggage, his boxes, his books, which he never read, his chests of mangoes, chutney, and curry-powders, his shawls for presents to people whom he didn’t know as yet, and the rest of his Persicos apparatus.
为像他这样身材高大、有尊严的人制作这些背心至少需要一天的时间，其中一部分时间他用来雇用仆人侍候他和他的当地人，并指导清理他的行李、箱子、书籍的代理人，他从未读过这些书，他的箱子里装满了芒果、酸辣酱和咖喱粉，他的披肩是送给他还不认识的人的礼物，还有他的佩尔西科斯器具的其余部分。

At length, he drove leisurely to London on the third day and in the new waistcoat, the native, with chattering teeth, shuddering in a shawl on the box by the side of the new European servant; Jos puffing his pipe at intervals within and looking so majestic that the little boys cried Hooray, and many people thought he must be a Governor-General. HE, I promise, did not decline the obsequious invitation of the landlords to alight and refresh himself in the neat country towns. Having partaken of a copious breakfast, with fish, and rice, and hard eggs, at Southampton, he had so far rallied at Winchester as to think a glass of sherry necessary. At Alton he stepped out of the carriage at his servant’s request and imbibed some of the ale for which the place is famous. At Farnham he stopped to view the Bishop’s Castle and to partake of a light dinner of stewed eels, veal cutlets, and French beans, with a bottle of claret. He was cold over Bagshot Heath, where the native chattered more and more, and Jos Sahib took some brandy-and-water; in fact, when he drove into town he was as full of wine, beer, meat, pickles, cherry-brandy, and tobacco as the steward’s cabin of a steam-packet. It was evening when his carriage thundered up to the little door in Brompton, whither the affectionate fellow drove first, and before hieing to the apartments secured for him by Mr. Dobbin at the Slaughters’.
最后，第三天，他悠闲地开车到了伦敦，穿着新背心，本地人，牙齿打战，在新欧洲仆人旁边的盒子上披着披肩，瑟瑟发抖。乔斯在里面时不时地吹着烟斗，看上去威风凛凛，小男孩们都喊出了万岁，很多人都认为他一定是总督。我保证，他并没有拒绝房东的谄媚邀请，到整洁的乡村小镇下车休息。在南安普敦享用了丰盛的早餐，包括鱼、米饭和硬鸡蛋后，他在温彻斯特重聚，认为有必要喝一杯雪利酒。到了奥尔顿，他应仆人的要求下了马车，喝了一些这个地方闻名的麦芽酒。在法纳姆，他停下来参观了主教城堡，并享用了一顿清淡的晚餐，包括炖鳗鱼、小牛肉片和四季豆，还喝了一瓶红葡萄酒。他对巴沙特荒原感到寒冷，当地人喋喋不休的声音越来越大，乔斯·萨希布喝了一些白兰地和水。事实上，当他开车进城时，他身上装满了葡萄酒、啤酒、肉、泡菜、樱桃白兰地和烟草，就像蒸汽包的乘务员舱一样。傍晚时分，他的马车轰隆隆地开到了布朗普顿的小门前，这位深情的家伙先开到了那儿，然后就到了多宾先生在斯劳特家为他安排的公寓。

All the faces in the street were in the windows; the little maidservant flew to the wicket-gate; the Mesdames Clapp looked out from the casement of the ornamented kitchen; Emmy, in a great flutter, was in the passage among the hats and coats; and old Sedley in the parlour inside, shaking all over. Jos descended from the post-chaise and down the creaking swaying steps in awful state, supported by the new valet from Southampton and the shuddering native, whose brown face was now livid with cold and of the colour of a turkey’s gizzard. He created an immense sensation in the passage presently, where Mrs. and Miss Clapp, coming perhaps to listen at the parlour door, found Loll Jewab shaking upon the hallbench under the coats, moaning in a strange piteous way, and showing his yellow eyeballs and white teeth.
街上所有的面孔都出现在窗户里；小婢女飞到了检门处。克拉普夫人从装饰精美的厨房的窗户往外看。艾美在帽子和外套之间的过道里心慌意乱。而老塞德利则在客厅里浑身发抖。乔斯从马车上走下来，走下吱吱作响、摇摆不定的台阶，在南安普敦来的新男仆和瑟瑟发抖的当地人的搀扶下，他棕色的脸现在冻得青紫，颜色像火鸡砂囊。他立即在走廊里引起了巨大的轰动，克拉普太太和小姐也许是来客厅门口听的，发现洛尔·杰瓦布在大衣下的长椅上摇晃着，以一种奇怪的可怜的方式呻吟着，露出了他的黄色眼珠和眼睛。洁白的牙齿。

For, you see, we have adroitly shut the door upon the meeting between Jos and the old father and the poor little gentle sister inside. The old man was very much affected; so, of course, was his daughter; nor was Jos without feeling. In that long absence of ten years, the most selfish will think about home and early ties. Distance sanctifies both. Long brooding over those lost pleasures exaggerates their charm and sweetness. Jos was unaffectedly glad to see and shake the hand of his father, between whom and himself there had been a coolness—glad to see his little sister, whom he remembered so pretty and smiling, and pained at the alteration which time, grief, and misfortune had made in the shattered old man. Emmy had come out to the door in her black clothes and whispered to him of her mother’s death, and not to speak of it to their father. There was no need of this caution, for the elder Sedley himself began immediately to speak of the event, and prattled about it, and wept over it plenteously. It shocked the Indian not a little and made him think of himself less than the poor fellow was accustomed to do.
因为，你看，我们巧妙地关上了乔斯和老父亲以及可怜的温柔小妹妹之间会面的门。老人深受感动。当然，他的女儿也是如此。乔斯也不是没有感觉。在那漫长的十年里，最自私的人都会想到家乡和早年的联系。距离使两者神圣化。长时间沉思那些失去的快乐会夸大它们的魅力和甜蜜。乔斯自然而然地很高兴见到他的父亲并与他握手，他和他之间有一种冷静——很高兴看到他的小妹妹，他记得她是那么漂亮，微笑着，但对这次的改变感到痛苦，悲伤和悲伤。这位破碎的老人遭遇了不幸。艾米穿着黑衣服来到门口，低声向他讲述了她母亲的死讯，却没有向他们的父亲提起。没有必要如此谨慎，因为老塞德利本人立即开始谈论这件事，喋喋不休，并为此哭泣。这让印第安人感到不小的震惊，也让他觉得自己不像这个可怜的家伙平常那样。

The result of the interview must have been very satisfactory, for when Jos had reascended his post-chaise and had driven away to his hotel, Emmy embraced her father tenderly, appealing to him with an air of triumph, and asking the old man whether she did not always say that her brother had a good heart?
采访的结果一定是非常令人满意的，因为当乔斯重新登上他的马车并开车前往他的旅馆时，艾美温柔地拥抱了她的父亲，带着胜利的神情向他求助，并询问老人是否愿意不是一直说哥哥心地善良吗？

Indeed, Joseph Sedley, affected by the humble position in which he found his relations, and in the expansiveness and overflowing of heart occasioned by the first meeting, declared that they should never suffer want or discomfort any more, that he was at home for some time at any rate, during which his house and everything he had should be theirs: and that Amelia would look very pretty at the head of his table—until she would accept one of her own.
事实上，约瑟夫·塞德利（Joseph Sedley）受到他与亲戚的卑微地位的影响，以及第一次见面所引起的宽广和热情，他宣称他们永远不会再遭受匮乏或不适，他对某些人感到宾至如归。无论如何，在这段时间里，他的房子和他拥有的一切都应该是他们的：阿米莉亚在他的餐桌上看起来会非常漂亮——直到她接受自己的房子。

She shook her head sadly and had, as usual, recourse to the waterworks. She knew what he meant. She and her young confidante, Miss Mary, had talked over the matter most fully, the very night of the Major’s visit, beyond which time the impetuous Polly could not refrain from talking of the discovery which she had made, and describing the start and tremor of joy by which Major Dobbin betrayed himself when Mr. Binny passed with his bride and the Major learned that he had no longer a rival to fear. ‘Didn’t you see how he shook all over when you asked if he was married and he said, ‘Who told you those lies?’ Oh, M’am,’ Polly said, ‘he never kept his eyes off you, and I’m sure he’s grown grey athinking of you.’
她悲伤地摇摇头，像往常一样求助于自来水厂。她知道他的意思。少校来访的那天晚上，她和她年轻的红颜知己玛丽小姐对此事进行了最充分的讨论，在那之后，冲动的波莉忍不住谈论了她的发现，并描述了惊吓和颤抖。当宾尼先生带着他的新娘经过时，多宾少校得知自己不再有对手可畏，他的喜悦之情溢于言表。 “你没看到当你问他是否结婚时，他浑身发抖，他说，‘谁告诉你这些谎言的？’哦，女士，”波莉说，“他的目光从未离开过你，而且我确信他一想到你就脸色发白。

But Amelia, looking up at her bed, over which hung the portraits of her husband and son, told her young protegee never, never, to speak on that subject again; that Major Dobbin had been her husband’s dearest friend and her own and George’s most kind and affectionate guardian; that she loved him as a brother—but that a woman who had been married to such an angel as that, and she pointed to the wall, could never think of any other union. Poor Polly sighed: she thought what she should do if young Mr. Tomkins, at the surgery, who always looked at her so at church, and who, by those mere aggressive glances had put her timorous little heart into such a flutter that she was ready to surrender at once,—what she should do if he were to die? She knew he was consumptive, his cheeks were so red and he was so uncommon thin in the waist.
但阿米莉亚抬头看着床上挂着她丈夫和儿子的肖像的床，告诉她年轻的门徒永远、永远不要再谈论这个话题；多宾少校是她丈夫最亲密的朋友，也是她和乔治最善良、最深情的监护人；她爱他就像爱兄弟一样——但是，一个嫁给了这样一位天使的女人，她指着墙，绝不会想到任何其他的结合。可怜的波莉叹了口气：她想，如果年轻的汤姆金斯先生在手术室里，她在教堂里总是这样看着她，而他，仅仅通过那些咄咄逼人的目光，就让她胆怯的小心变得如此激动，她该怎么办？准备立刻投降——如果他死了她该怎么办？她知道他是肺痨病，脸颊红得通红，腰又细得不寻常。

Not that Emmy, being made aware of the honest Major’s passion, rebuffed him in any way, or felt displeased with him. Such an attachment from so true and loyal a gentleman could make no woman angry. Desdemona was not angry with Cassio, though there is very little doubt she saw the Lieutenant’s partiality for her (and I for my part believe that many more things took place in that sad affair than the worthy Moorish officer ever knew of); why, Miranda was even very kind to Caliban, and we may be pretty sure for the same reason. Not that she would encourage him in the least—the poor uncouth monster—of course not. No more would Emmy by any means encourage her admirer, the Major. She would give him that friendly regard, which so much excellence and fidelity merited; she would treat him with perfect cordiality and frankness until he made his proposals, and THEN it would be time enough for her to speak and to put an end to hopes which never could be realized.
艾美并不是因为意识到了诚实的少校的热情而以任何方式拒绝了他，或者对他感到不满。一个如此真诚忠诚的绅士的如此执着，不可能让任何女人生气。苔丝狄蒙娜并没有生凯西奥的气，尽管毫无疑问她看到了中尉对她的偏爱（而我本人相信，在那件悲伤的事情中发生的事情比这位可敬的摩尔军官所知道的要多得多）；为什么，米兰达甚至对卡利班非常友善，出于同样的原因我们可能很确定。并不是说她会丝毫鼓励他——这个可怜的粗鲁怪物——当然不会。艾美再也不会以任何方式鼓励她的崇拜者少校了。她会给他友善的问候，这是他的卓越和忠诚所应得的。她会以完美的真诚和坦诚对待他，直到他提出建议，然后她就有足够的时间说话并结束永远无法实现的希望。

She slept, therefore, very soundly that evening, after the conversation with Miss Polly, and was more than ordinarily happy, in spite of Jos’s delaying. ‘I am glad he is not going to marry that Miss O’Dowd,’ she thought. ‘Colonel O’Dowd never could have a sister fit for such an accomplished man as Major William.’ Who was there amongst her little circle who would make him a good wife? Not Miss Binny, she was too old and ill-tempered; Miss Osborne? too old too. Little Polly was too young. Mrs. Osborne could not find anybody to suit the Major before she went to sleep.
因此，那天晚上，在与波莉小姐谈话之后，她睡得很香，尽管乔斯耽搁了，但她还是比平常高兴。 “我很高兴他不会娶奥多德小姐，”她想。 “奥多德上校永远不可能有一个妹妹适合像威廉少校这样有成就的人。”在她的小圈子里，谁能让他成为一个好妻子呢？宾尼小姐则不然，她太老了，脾气也不好。奥斯本小姐？也太老了。小波莉还太小。奥斯本夫人在睡觉前找不到适合少校的人。

The same morning brought Major Dobbin a letter to the Slaughters’ Coffee-house from his friend at Southampton, begging dear Dob to excuse Jos for being in a rage when awakened the day before (he had a confounded headache, and was just in his first sleep), and entreating Dob to engage comfortable rooms at the Slaughters’ for Mr. Sedley and his servants. The Major had become necessary to Jos during the voyage. He was attached to him, and hung upon him. The other passengers were away to London. Young Ricketts and little Chaffers went away on the coach that day—Ricketts on the box, and taking the reins from Botley; the Doctor was off to his family at Portsea; Bragg gone to town to his co-partners; and the first mate busy in the unloading of the Ramchunder. Mr. Joe was very lonely at Southampton, and got the landlord of the George to take a glass of wine with him that day, at the very hour at which Major Dobbin was seated at the table of his father, Sir William, where his sister found out (for it was impossible for the Major to tell fibs) that he had been to see Mrs. George Osborne.
同一天早上，多宾少校收到了他在南安普顿的朋友写给屠夫咖啡馆的一封信，恳求亲爱的多宾原谅乔斯前一天醒来时的愤怒（他头疼得厉害，而且刚刚处于第一次发作）。睡觉），并恳求多布在斯劳特家为塞德利先生和他的仆人预订舒适的房间。在这次航行中，少校对乔斯来说变得不可或缺。他依附于他，依附于他。其他乘客已前往伦敦。那天，年轻的里基茨和小查弗斯乘着马车离开了——里基茨坐在包厢里，从波特利手中接过了缰绳。医生正前往波特西的家人身边。布拉格进城去找他的合作伙伴；大副正忙着给 Ramchunder 卸货。乔先生在南安普敦感到非常孤独，那天，就在多宾少校坐在他父亲威廉爵士的餐桌旁的时候，他让乔治旅馆的房东带了一杯酒和他一起去，他的妹妹在那里发现（因为少校不可能撒谎）他去见了乔治·奥斯本夫人。

Jos was so comfortably situated in St. Martin’s Lane, he could enjoy his hookah there with such perfect ease, and could swagger down to the theatres, when minded, so agreeably, that, perhaps, he would have remained altogether at the Slaughters’ had not his friend, the Major, been at his elbow. That gentleman would not let the Bengalee rest until he had executed his promise of having a home for Amelia and his father. Jos was a soft fellow in anybody’s hands, Dobbin most active in anybody’s concerns but his own; the civilian was, therefore, an easy victim to the guileless arts of this good-natured diplomatist and was ready to do, to purchase, hire, or relinquish whatever his friend thought fit. Loll Jewab, of whom the boys about St. Martin’s Lane used to make cruel fun whenever he showed his dusky countenance in the street, was sent back to Calcutta in the Lady Kicklebury East Indiaman, in which Sir William Dobbin had a share, having previously taught Jos’s European the art of preparing curries, pilaus, and pipes. It was a matter of great delight and occupation to Jos to superintend the building of a smart chariot which he and the Major ordered in the neighbouring Long Acre: and a pair of handsome horses were jobbed, with which Jos drove about in state in the park, or to call upon his Indian friends. Amelia was not seldom by his side on these excursions, when also Major Dobbin would be seen in the back seat of the carriage. At other times old Sedley and his daughter took advantage of it, and Miss Clapp, who frequently accompanied her friend, had great pleasure in being recognized as she sat in the carriage, dressed in the famous yellow shawl, by the young gentleman at the surgery, whose face might commonly be seen over the window-blinds as she passed.
乔斯在圣马丁巷的位置是如此舒适，他可以在那里轻松地享受他的水烟，并且可以大摇大摆地去剧院，当他有想法时，如此愉快，也许他会完全留在屠杀者那里站在他身边的不是他的朋友少校。这位绅士不会让孟加拉人休息，除非他履行为阿米莉亚和他父亲提供一个家的承诺。乔斯对任何人来说都是一个软弱的人，多宾对任何人的关心都最积极，除了他自己的关心。因此，这位平民很容易成为这位善良外交官朴实艺术的受害者，并准备好做、购买、雇用或放弃他的朋友认为合适的任何事情。洛尔·杰瓦布（Loll Jewab）每次在街上露出阴沉的面容时，圣马丁巷的男孩们都会对他进行残酷的取笑，现在他被送回加尔各答，乘坐的是基克尔伯里夫人号东印度号，威廉·多宾爵士曾参与过这艘船。教乔斯的欧洲人准备咖喱、皮劳斯和烟斗的艺术。对乔斯来说，监督他和少校在邻近的朗埃卡订购的一辆智能战车的建造是一件非常高兴和忙碌的事：一对漂亮的马被装上了，乔斯带着它们在公园里威风凛凛地行驶着。 ，或者去拜访他的印度朋友。在这些短途旅行中，阿米莉亚并不少见在他身边，有时也会看到多宾少校坐在马车的后座上。其他时候，老塞德利和他的女儿也会利用这个机会，经常陪伴她朋友的克拉普小姐很高兴坐在马车上，穿着著名的黄色披肩，被手术室的年轻绅士认出。当她经过时，透过百叶窗通常可以看到她的脸。

Shortly after Jos’s first appearance at Brompton, a dismal scene, indeed, took place at that humble cottage at which the Sedleys had passed the last ten years of their life. Jos’s carriage (the temporary one, not the chariot under construction) arrived one day and carried off old Sedley and his daughter—to return no more. The tears that were shed by the landlady and the landlady’s daughter at that event were as genuine tears of sorrow as any that have been outpoured in the course of this history. In their long acquaintanceship and intimacy they could not recall a harsh word that had been uttered by Amelia She had been all sweetness and kindness, always thankful, always gentle, even when Mrs. Clapp lost her own temper and pressed for the rent. When the kind creature was going away for good and all, the landlady reproached herself bitterly for ever having used a rough expression to her—how she wept, as they stuck up with wafers on the window, a paper notifying that the little rooms so long occupied were to let! They never would have such lodgers again, that was quite clear. After-life proved the truth of this melancholy prophecy, and Mrs. Clapp revenged herself for the deterioration of mankind by levying the most savage contributions upon the tea-caddies and legs of mutton of her locataires. Most of them scolded and grumbled; some of them did not pay; none of them stayed. The landlady might well regret those old, old friends, who had left her.
乔斯第一次出现在布朗普顿后不久，在那座简陋的小屋里确实发生了令人沮丧的一幕，塞德利一家在那里度过了生命的最后十年。有一天，乔斯的马车（临时的，不是正在建造的战车）抵达并带走了老塞德利和他的女儿——再也没有回来。女房东和女房东的女儿在那次活动中流下的眼泪，与这段历史过程中流下的任何眼泪一样，都是真诚的悲伤泪水。在他们长期的相识和亲密关系中，他们不记得阿米莉亚说过一句严厉的话。她一直都很甜蜜和善良，总是心存感激，总是温柔，即使克拉普太太发脾气并催促房租时也是如此。当这个善良的生物永远离开时，女房东痛苦地责备自己，因为她对她使用了粗鲁的表情——当他们在窗户上贴上薄饼时，她哭了，一张纸通知说，小房间已经太久了。占了都让！他们再也不会有这样的房客了，这一点很清楚。来世证明了这个忧郁预言的真实性，克拉普夫人向她的定位者的茶罐和羊腿征收最野蛮的捐款，以报复人类的恶化。他们中的大多数人都是责骂和抱怨的。其中一些人没有付款；他们都没有留下来。女房东很可能会后悔那些离开她的老朋友。

As for Miss Mary, her sorrow at Amelia’s departure was such as I shall not attempt to depict. From childhood upwards she had been with her daily and had attached herself so passionately to that dear good lady that when the grand barouche came to carry her off into splendour, she fainted in the arms of her friend, who was indeed scarcely less affected than the good-natured girl. Amelia loved her like a daughter. During eleven years the girl had been her constant friend and associate. The separation was a very painful one indeed to her. But it was of course arranged that Mary was to come and stay often at the grand new house whither Mrs. Osborne was going, and where Mary was sure she would never be so happy as she had been in their humble cot, as Miss Clapp called it, in the language of the novels which she loved.
至于玛丽小姐，我不会试图描述她对阿米莉亚离开的悲伤。从小到大，她每天都和她在一起，对那位亲爱的好女士如此热情地依恋着，以至于当豪华四轮马车来接她走上辉煌时，她晕倒在她朋友的怀里，而朋友受到的影响确实不亚于那位朋友。心地善良的女孩。阿米莉亚像女儿一样爱她。十一年来，这个女孩一直是她忠实的朋友和伙伴。这次分离对她来说确实是一件非常痛苦的事情。但当然，玛丽要经常来奥斯本夫人要去的宏伟的新房子里住，玛丽确信她永远不会像克拉普小姐所说的那样，在他们简陋的小床上那样快乐。它，用她喜欢的小说的语言。

Let us hope she was wrong in her judgement. Poor Emmy’s days of happiness had been very few in that humble cot. A gloomy Fate had oppressed her there. She never liked to come back to the house after she had left it, or to face the landlady who had tyrannized over her when ill-humoured and unpaid, or when pleased had treated her with a coarse familiarity scarcely less odious. Her servility and fulsome compliments when Emmy was in prosperity were not more to that lady’s liking. She cast about notes of admiration all over the new house, extolling every article of furniture or ornament; she fingered Mrs. Osborne’s dresses and calculated their price. Nothing could be too good for that sweet lady, she vowed and protested. But in the vulgar sycophant who now paid court to her, Emmy always remembered the coarse tyrant who had made her miserable many a time, to whom she had been forced to put up petitions for time, when the rent was overdue; who cried out at her extravagance if she bought delicacies for her ailing mother or father; who had seen her humble and trampled upon her.
让我们希望她的判断是错误的。可怜的艾美在那张简陋的小床上度过的幸福日子很少。阴郁的命运在那里压迫着她。她离开家后，从来不喜欢再回到家里，也不喜欢面对那位脾气不好、没有报酬时对她横行霸道的女房东，或者高兴时对她态度粗俗、亲昵的态度，这种态度同样令人厌恶。当艾美奖繁荣时，她的奴性和过分的恭维并没有更符合那位女士的喜好。她在新房子里到处洋溢着钦佩的气息，称赞每一件家具或装饰品。她用手指抚摸奥斯本夫人的衣服，计算出它们的价格。对于这位可爱的女士来说，没有什么比这更好的了，她发誓并抗议道。但在现在向她求爱的粗俗阿谀奉承者身上，艾美总是想起那个曾多次让她痛苦不堪的粗暴暴君，当房租逾期时，她被迫向他请愿；如果她为生病的母亲或父亲买美味佳肴，她会因她的铺张浪费而大喊大叫；谁见过她卑微，就践踏她。

Nobody ever heard of these griefs, which had been part of our poor little woman’s lot in life. She kept them secret from her father, whose improvidence was the cause of much of her misery. She had to bear all the blame of his misdoings, and indeed was so utterly gentle and humble as to be made by nature for a victim.
没有人听说过这些悲伤，这些悲伤是我们可怜的小女人一生命运的一部分。她对父亲隐瞒了这些事情，而父亲的短视是她痛苦的根源。她要承担他所有的过错，而且她又是如此的温柔和卑微，简直就是天生的受害者。

I hope she is not to suffer much more of that hard usage. And, as in all griefs there is said to be some consolation, I may mention that poor Mary, when left at her friend’s departure in a hysterical condition, was placed under the medical treatment of the young fellow from the surgery, under whose care she rallied after a short period. Emmy, when she went away from Brompton, endowed Mary with every article of furniture that the house contained, only taking away her pictures (the two pictures over the bed) and her piano— that little old piano which had now passed into a plaintive jingling old age, but which she loved for reasons of her own. She was a child when first she played on it, and her parents gave it her. It had been given to her again since, as the reader may remember, when her father’s house was gone to ruin and the instrument was recovered out of the wreck.
我希望她不会再遭受更多的痛苦。而且，据说在所有的悲伤中都有一些安慰，我可以提一下，可怜的玛丽，当她的朋友离开时，她处于歇斯底里的状态，被安排在手术室的年轻人的治疗下，在他的照顾下，她短暂反弹后。当艾美离开布朗普顿时，她把房子里的每一件家具都送给了玛丽，只拿走了她的照片（床上的两张照片）和她的钢琴——那架小旧钢琴现在已经变成了一首哀伤的叮当作响的钢琴。老年，但她出于自己的原因而热爱它。当她第一次玩这个游戏时，她还是个孩子，是她的父母给她的。读者可能还记得，自从她父亲的房子被毁，仪器从残骸中被打捞出来后，它就又被送给了她。

Major Dobbin was exceedingly pleased when, as he was superintending the arrangements of Jos’s new house—which the Major insisted should be very handsome and comfortable—the cart arrived from Brompton, bringing the trunks and bandboxes of the emigrants from that village, and with them the old piano. Amelia would have it up in her sitting-room, a neat little apartment on the second floor, adjoining her father’s chamber, and where the old gentleman sat commonly of evenings.
多宾少校非常高兴，当时他正在监督乔斯的新房子的布置——少校坚持认为新房子应该非常漂亮和舒适——马车从布朗普顿抵达，带来了来自那个村庄的移民的箱子和乐队箱，并带着他们旧钢琴。阿米莉亚会把它放在她的起居室里，这是一间位于二楼的整洁的小公寓，毗邻她父亲的房间，也是老绅士晚上经常坐的地方。

When the men appeared then bearing this old music-box, and Amelia gave orders that it should be placed in the chamber aforesaid, Dobbin was quite elated. ‘I’m glad you’ve kept it,’ he said in a very sentimental manner. ‘I was afraid you didn’t care about it.’
当那些人带着这个旧音乐盒出现时，阿米莉亚下令将它放在上述房间里，多宾非常高兴。 “我很高兴你保留了它，”他非常感伤地说。 “我担心你不关心这件事。”

‘I value it more than anything I have in the world,’ said Amelia.
“我珍视它胜过世界上我拥有的任何东西，”阿米莉亚说。

‘Do you, Amelia?’ cried the Major. The fact was, as he had bought it himself, though he never said anything about it, it never entered into his head to suppose that Emmy should think anybody else was the purchaser, and as a matter of course he fancied that she knew the gift came from him. ‘Do you, Amelia?’ he said; and the question, the great question of all, was trembling on his lips, when Emmy replied—
“你是吗，阿米莉亚？”少校喊道。事实是，因为这是他自己买的，尽管他从未对此说过任何话，但他从来没有想过艾美应该认为其他人是购买者，而且当然，他认为她知道这份礼物来自他。 “你是吗，阿米莉亚？”他说。当艾美回答时，这个问题，这个最重要的问题，在他的嘴唇上颤抖着——

‘Can I do otherwise?—did not he give it me?’
“我还能做别的事吗？——他不是给了我吗？”

‘I did not know,’ said poor old Dob, and his countenance fell.
“我不知道，”可怜的老多布说道，他的脸色沉了下来。

Emmy did not note the circumstance at the time, nor take immediate heed of the very dismal expression which honest Dobbin’s countenance assumed, but she thought of it afterwards. And then it struck her, with inexpressible pain and mortification too, that it was William who was the giver of the piano, and not George, as she had fancied. It was not George’s gift; the only one which she had received from her lover, as she thought—the thing she had cherished beyond all others—her dearest relic and prize. She had spoken to it about George; played his favourite airs upon it; sat for long evening hours, touching, to the best of her simple art, melancholy harmonies on the keys, and weeping over them in silence. It was not George’s relic. It was valueless now. The next time that old Sedley asked her to play, she said it was shockingly out of tune, that she had a headache, that she couldn’t play.
艾美当时没有注意到这一情况，也没有立即注意到诚实的多宾脸上所呈现出的非常沮丧的表情，但她后来想到了这一点。然后她突然意识到，钢琴的赠予者是威廉，而不是她想象的乔治，这让她感到难以言表的痛苦和屈辱。这不是乔治的礼物；而是他的礼物。正如她所想，这是她从爱人那里得到的唯一一件东西——她最珍视的东西——她最珍贵的遗物和奖品。她曾向它谈到过乔治；在上面演奏他最喜欢的曲子；晚上，她坐了很长的时间，用她最简单的艺术，触摸琴键上忧郁的和声，并默默地为它们哭泣。这不是乔治的遗物。现在已经毫无价值了。老塞德利下次请她弹奏时，她说这首曲子走调得惊人，她头疼，无法弹奏。

Then, according to her custom, she rebuked herself for her pettishness and ingratitude and determined to make a reparation to honest William for the slight she had not expressed to him, but had felt for his piano. A few days afterwards, as they were seated in the drawing-room, where Jos had fallen asleep with great comfort after dinner, Amelia said with rather a faltering voice to Major Dobbin—
然后，按照她的习惯，她责备自己的小气和忘恩负义，并决心向诚实的威廉做出补偿，因为她没有向他表达，而是对他的钢琴感到了轻视。几天后，当他们坐在客厅里时，乔斯晚饭后舒舒服服地睡着了，阿米莉亚用相当结结巴巴的声音对多宾少校说——

‘I have to beg your pardon for something.’
“有件事我必须请求你原谅。”

‘About what?’ said he.
“关于什么？”他问道。

‘About—about that little square piano. I never thanked you for it when you gave it me, many, many years ago, before I was married. I thought somebody else had given it. Thank you, William.’ She held out her hand, but the poor little woman’s heart was bleeding; and as for her eyes, of course they were at their work.
“关于——关于那架小方形钢琴。很多很多年前，在我结婚之前，当你把它送给我时，我从来没有感谢过你。我还以为是别人给的呢谢谢你，威廉。”她伸出了手，但这个可怜的小女人的心在流血。至于她的眼睛，当然是在工作。

But William could hold no more. ‘Amelia, Amelia,’ he said, ‘I did buy it for you. I loved you then as I do now. I must tell you. I think I loved you from the first minute that I saw you, when George brought me to your house, to show me the Amelia whom he was engaged to. You were but a girl, in white, with large ringlets; you came down singing—do you remember?—and we went to Vauxhall. Since then I have thought of but one woman in the world, and that was you. I think there is no hour in the day has passed for twelve years that I haven’t thought of you. I came to tell you this before I went to India, but you did not care, and I hadn’t the heart to speak. You did not care whether I stayed or went.’
但威廉再也坚持不住了。 “阿米莉亚，阿米莉亚，”他说，“我确实给你买了它。”那时我爱你，就像现在一样。我必须告诉你。我想从我见到你的第一分钟起，当乔治带我去你家，让我看看他订婚的阿米莉亚时，我就爱上了你。你只是一个女孩，穿着白色衣服，留着大卷发；你唱着歌下来——你还记得吗？——然后我们去了沃克斯豪尔。从那时起，我心里就只有一个女人，那就是你。我想，十二年来，我无时无刻不在想念你。我去印度之前就来告诉你这件事，但你不关心，我也懒得说。你并不关心我是走还是留。

‘I was very ungrateful,’ Amelia said.
“我非常忘恩负义，”阿米莉亚说。

‘No, only indifferent,’ Dobbin continued desperately. ‘I have nothing to make a woman to be otherwise. I know what you are feeling now. You are hurt in your heart at the discovery about the piano, and that it came from me and not from George. I forgot, or I should never have spoken of it so. It is for me to ask your pardon for being a fool for a moment, and thinking that years of constancy and devotion might have pleaded with you.’
“不，只是漠不关心，”多宾绝望地继续说道。 “我没有什么可以让一个女人变得不一样。我知道你现在的感受。当你发现这架钢琴时，你的心很受伤，而且它是我而不是乔治的。我忘了，否则我就不应该这样说。我请求您原谅我暂时像个傻瓜，并认为多年的坚持和奉献可能会恳求您。

‘It is you who are cruel now,’ Amelia said with some spirit. ‘George is my husband, here and in heaven. How could I love any other but him? I am his now as when you first saw me, dear William. It was he who told me how good and generous you were, and who taught me to love you as a brother. Have you not been everything to me and my boy? Our dearest, truest, kindest friend and protector? Had you come a few months sooner perhaps you might have spared me that—that dreadful parting. Oh, it nearly killed me, William—but you didn’t come, though I wished and prayed for you to come, and they took him too away from me. Isn’t he a noble boy, William? Be his friend still and mine’—and here her voice broke, and she hid her face on his shoulder.
“现在是你残忍了。”阿米莉亚有些精神地说。 “乔治是我的丈夫，无论是在这里还是在天堂。除了他我还能爱别人吗？我现在是他的了，就像你第一次见到我时一样，亲爱的威廉。是他告诉我你是多么善良和慷慨，是他教会我像兄弟一样爱你。你不是我和我儿子的一切吗？我们最亲爱、最真实、最善良的朋友和保护者？如果你早来几个月，也许你就可以让我免遭那次可怕的离别。哦，这几乎要了我的命，威廉——但你没有来，尽管我希望并祈祷你能来，但他们也把他从我身边带走了。他不是一个高贵的男孩吗，威廉？仍然是他的朋友，也是我的朋友”——说到这里，她的声音哽咽了，她把脸埋在他的肩膀上。

The Major folded his arms round her, holding her to him as if she was a child, and kissed her head. ‘I will not change, dear Amelia,’ he said. ‘I ask for no more than your love. I think I would not have it otherwise. Only let me stay near you and see you often.’
少校双臂抱住她，把她抱在怀里，就像她是个孩子一样，然后亲吻了她的头。 “我不会改变，亲爱的阿米莉亚，”他说。 ‘我所求的不过是你的爱。我想否则我不会拥有它。只要让我呆在你身边，经常见到你就可以了。

‘Yes, often,’ Amelia said. And so William was at liberty to look and long—as the poor boy at school who has no money may sigh after the contents of the tart-woman’s tray.
“是的，经常，”阿米莉亚说。因此，威廉可以随意地看，也可以看很久——就像学校里没有钱的穷男孩可能会对妓女托盘里的东西叹息一样。

Chapter LX
第六十六章


Returns to the Genteel World
重回文雅世界

Good fortune now begins to smile upon Amelia. We are glad to get her out of that low sphere in which she has been creeping hitherto and introduce her into a polite circle—not so grand and refined as that in which our other female friend, Mrs. Becky, has appeared, but still having no small pretensions to gentility and fashion. Jos’s friends were all from the three presidencies, and his new house was in the comfortable Anglo-Indian district of which Moira Place is the centre. Minto Square, Great Clive Street, Warren Street, Hastings Street, Ochterlony Place, Plassy Square, Assaye Terrace (“gardens’ was a felicitous word not applied to stucco houses with asphalt terraces in front, so early as 1827)—who does not know these respectable abodes of the retired Indian aristocracy, and the quarter which Mr. Wenham calls the Black Hole, in a word? Jos’s position in life was not grand enough to entitle him to a house in Moira Place, where none can live but retired Members of Council, and partners of Indian firms (who break, after having settled a hundred thousand pounds on their wives, and retire into comparative penury to a country place and four thousand a year); he engaged a comfortable house of a secondor third-rate order in Gillespie Street, purchasing the carpets, costly mirrors, and handsome and appropriate planned furniture by Seddons from the assignees of Mr. Scape, lately admitted partner into the great Calcutta House of Fogle, Fake, and Cracksman, in which poor Scape had embarked seventy thousand pounds, the earnings of a long and honourable life, taking Fake’s place, who retired to a princely park in Sussex (the Fogles have been long out of the firm, and Sir Horace Fogle is about to be raised to the peerage as Baron Bandanna)—admitted, I say, partner into the great agency house of Fogle and Fake two years before it failed for a million and plunged half the Indian public into misery and ruin.
好运现在开始向阿米莉亚微笑。我们很高兴让她走出她迄今为止一直在其中蠕动的低层圈子，并将她引入一个礼貌的圈子——不像我们的另一位女性朋友贝基夫人所出现的那样宏伟和优雅，但仍然有不乏对优雅和时尚的自负。乔斯的朋友都来自三届总统，他的新房子位于舒适的英印地区，莫伊拉广场是该地区的中心。 Minto 广场、Great Clive 街、Warren 街、Hastings 街、Ochterlony 广场、Plassy 广场、Assaye 露台（“花园”是一个恰当的词，早在 1827 年就不适用于前面有沥青露台的灰泥房屋）——谁不知道退休印度贵族的这些令人尊敬的住所，以及文纳姆先生称之为“黑洞”的地区，简而言之？乔斯的生活地位还不够崇高，不足以让他有权在莫伊拉广场拥有一套房子，那里除了退休的议会成员和印度公司的合伙人之外没有人可以住（他们在给妻子付了十万英镑后破产了，退休了）相对贫穷的乡村地区，每年四千美元）；他在吉莱斯皮街订了一套舒适的二三流房子，从先生的受让人那里购买了地毯、昂贵的镜子以及塞登斯精心设计的漂亮而合适的家具。 斯卡普，最近被接纳为加尔各答伟大的福格尔、假货和神器之家的合伙人，可怜的斯卡普在这家公司里赚了七万英镑，这是漫长而光荣的生活的收入，取代了福克的位置，后者退休到苏塞克斯的一个王子公园。福格尔夫妇早已离开公司，而霍勒斯·福格尔爵士即将晋升为班丹纳男爵（Baron Bandanna）——我承认，他是福格尔和福克这家伟大的代理公司的合伙人，两年前该公司因一百万美元而破产并使一半的印度公众陷入痛苦和毁灭之中。

Scape, ruined, honest, and broken-hearted at sixty-five years of age, went out to Calcutta to wind up the affairs of the house. Walter Scape was withdrawn from Eton and put into a merchant’s house. Florence Scape, Fanny Scape, and their mother faded away to Boulogne, and will be heard of no more. To be brief, Jos stepped in and bought their carpets and sideboards and admired himself in the mirrors which had reflected their kind handsome faces. The Scape tradesmen, all honourably paid, left their cards, and were eager to supply the new household. The large men in white waistcoats who waited at Scape’s dinners, greengrocers, bank-porters, and milkmen in their private capacity, left their addresses and ingratiated themselves with the butler. Mr. Chummy, the chimney-purifier, who had swept the last three families, tried to coax the butler and the boy under him, whose duty it was to go out covered with buttons and with stripes down his trousers, for the protection of Mrs. Amelia whenever she chose to walk abroad.
斯凯普六十五岁时，一败涂地，诚实而心碎，他前往加尔各答结束家里的事务。沃尔特·斯凯普从伊顿公学退学，被安置在一个商人家里。弗洛伦斯·斯凯普、范妮·斯凯普和他们的母亲消失在布洛涅，从此再无音讯。简而言之，乔斯走进去买了他们的地毯和餐具柜，并对着镜子欣赏自己，镜子里映出了他们善良英俊的脸。斯凯普的商人都拿到了丰厚的报酬，留下了他们的卡片，并渴望为新家庭提供物资。在斯凯普的晚宴上等候的身穿白背心的大个子、蔬菜水果商、银行搬运工和以私人身份送牛奶的人，都留下了自己的地址，并向管家讨好。查米先生，烟囱清洁工，扫了最后三个家庭，试图哄骗管家和他手下的男孩，他的职责是出去时穿着纽扣，裤子上有条纹，以保护夫人。 Amelia每当她选择徒步出国时。

It was a modest establishment. The butler was Jos’s valet also, and never was more drunk than a butler in a small family should be who has a proper regard for his master’s wine. Emmy was supplied with a maid, grown on Sir William Dobbin’s suburban estate; a good girl, whose kindness and humility disarmed Mrs. Osborne, who was at first terrified at the idea of having a servant to wait upon herself, who did not in the least know how to use one, and who always spoke to domestics with the most reverential politeness. But this maid was very useful in the family, in dexterously tending old Mr. Sedley, who kept almost entirely to his own quarter of the house and never mixed in any of the gay doings which took place there.
这是一家简陋的酒店。管家也是乔斯的贴身男仆，在一个小家庭里，管家喝得醉得最多，他对主人的酒有适当的尊重。艾美得到了一名女佣，她是在威廉·多宾爵士的郊区庄园里长大的。一个好女孩，她的善良和谦虚让奥斯本夫人放下了戒备，她一开始对有一个仆人来伺候自己感到害怕，她根本不知道如何使用仆人，而且总是用一种最恭敬的礼貌。但这个女仆在家里非常有用，她巧妙地照顾老塞德利先生，他几乎完全呆在自己的住所里，从不参与那里发生的任何同性恋活动。

Numbers of people came to see Mrs. Osborne. Lady Dobbin and daughters were delighted at her change of fortune, and waited upon her. Miss Osborne from Russell Square came in her grand chariot with the flaming hammer-cloth emblazoned with the Leeds arms. Jos was reported to be immensely rich. Old Osborne had no objection that Georgy should inherit his uncle’s property as well as his own. ‘Damn it, we will make a man of the feller,’ he said; ‘and I’ll see him in Parliament before I die. You may go and see his mother, Miss O., though I’ll never set eyes on her”: and Miss Osborne came. Emmy, you may be sure, was very glad to see her, and so be brought nearer to George. That young fellow was allowed to come much more frequently than before to visit his mother. He dined once or twice a week in Gillespie Street and bullied the servants and his relations there, just as he did in Russell Square.
许多人来看望奥斯本夫人。多宾夫人和女儿们对她命运的改变感到高兴，并侍候着她。来自罗素广场的奥斯本小姐驾着她的豪华战车而来，她的战车上穿着印有利兹徽章的火焰锤布。据报道，乔斯非常富有。老奥斯本并不反对乔治继承他叔叔的财产以及他自己的财产。 “该死，我们要把这个家伙培养成一个男人，”他说。 “在我死之前我会在议会见到他。你可以去看他的母亲，O小姐，尽管我永远不会看到她”：奥斯本小姐来了。你可以肯定，艾美很高兴见到她，因此拉近了乔治的距离。那个年轻人被允许比以前更频繁地去看望他的母亲。他每周在吉莱斯皮街吃一两次饭，并欺负那里的仆人和他的亲戚，就像他在罗素广场所做的那样。

He was always respectful to Major Dobbin, however, and more modest in his demeanour when that gentleman was present. He was a clever lad and afraid of the Major. George could not help admiring his friend’s simplicity, his good humour, his various learning quietly imparted, his general love of truth and justice. He had met no such man as yet in the course of his experience, and he had an instinctive liking for a gentleman. He hung fondly by his godfather’s side, and it was his delight to walk in the parks and hear Dobbin talk. William told George about his father, about India and Waterloo, about everything but himself. When George was more than usually pert and conceited, the Major made jokes at him, which Mrs. Osborne thought very cruel. One day, taking him to the play, and the boy declining to go into the pit because it was vulgar, the Major took him to the boxes, left him there, and went down himself to the pit. He had not been seated there very long before he felt an arm thrust under his and a dandy little hand in a kid glove squeezing his arm. George had seen the absurdity of his ways and come down from the upper region. A tender laugh of benevolence lighted up old Dobbin’s face and eyes as he looked at the repentant little prodigal. He loved the boy, as he did everything that belonged to Amelia. How charmed she was when she heard of this instance of George’s goodness! Her eyes looked more kindly on Dobbin than they ever had done. She blushed, he thought, after looking at him so.
不过，他对多宾少校总是很尊重，当这位先生在场时，他的举止也更加谦虚。他是个聪明的小伙子，害怕少校。乔治情不自禁地钦佩他朋友的单纯、幽默、默默传授的各种学识以及对真理和正义的普遍热爱。在他的经历中，他还没有遇到过这样的人，他对绅士有一种本能的喜欢。他深情地依偎在教父身边，在公园里散步、听多宾讲话是他的乐趣。威廉向乔治讲述了他的父亲、印度和滑铁卢，以及除了他自己之外的一切。当乔治表现得比平常更加得意和自负时，少校就拿他开玩笑，奥斯本夫人认为这很残忍。有一天，少校带他去看戏，男孩拒绝进坑，因为那很粗俗，少校把他带到包厢里，把他留在那里，自己下了坑。他坐在那里没多久，就感觉到一只手臂伸到了他的身下，一只戴着小山羊皮手套的花花公子的小手捏着他的手臂。乔治看到了他的做法的荒谬，于是从上部地区下来。当老多宾看着这个悔悟的小浪子时，他的脸上和眼睛里闪烁着仁慈的温柔笑声。他爱这个男孩，就像他做了属于阿米莉亚的一切一样。当她听说乔治的善良时，她是多么着迷啊！她看多宾的眼神比以往任何时候都更加慈祥。如此看着他之后，他想，她脸红了。

Georgy never tired of his praises of the Major to his mother. ‘I like him, Mamma, because he knows such lots of things; and he ain’t like old Veal, who is always bragging and using such long words, don’t you know? The chaps call him ‘Longtail’ at school. I gave him the name; ain’t it capital? But Dob reads Latin like English, and French and that; and when we go out together he tells me stories about my Papa, and never about himself; though I heard Colonel Buckler, at Grandpapa’s, say that he was one of the bravest officers in the army, and had distinguished himself ever so much. Grandpapa was quite surprised, and said, ‘THAT feller! Why, I didn’t think he could say Bo to a goose’—but I know he could, couldn’t he, Mamma?’
乔吉乐此不疲地向他的母亲赞扬少校。 “妈妈，我喜欢他，因为他知道很多事情；而且他不像老维尔，总是吹牛，说那么长的话，你知道吗？在学校里，同学们都叫他“长尾”。我给了他这个名字；不是资本吗？但多布读拉丁语就像读英语、法语等等；当我们一起出去时，他给我讲关于我爸爸的故事，而不是关于他自己的故事。尽管我在爷爷家听到巴克勒上校说他是军队中最勇敢的军官之一，并且表现得非常出色。爷爷很惊讶，说：‘这个家伙！为什么，我不认为他可以对鹅说“Bo”——但我知道他可以，不是吗，妈妈？

Emmy laughed: she thought it was very likely the Major could do thus much.
艾美笑了：她觉得少校很有可能能做到这么多。

If there was a sincere liking between George and the Major, it must be confessed that between the boy and his uncle no great love existed. George had got a way of blowing out his cheeks, and putting his hands in his waistcoat pockets, and saying, ‘God bless my soul, you don’t say so,’ so exactly after the fashion of old Jos that it was impossible to refrain from laughter. The servants would explode at dinner if the lad, asking for something which wasn’t at table, put on that countenance and used that favourite phrase. Even Dobbin would shoot out a sudden peal at the boy’s mimicry. If George did not mimic his uncle to his face, it was only by Dobbin’s rebukes and Amelia’s terrified entreaties that the little scapegrace was induced to desist. And the worthy civilian being haunted by a dim consciousness that the lad thought him an ass, and was inclined to turn him into ridicule, used to be extremely timorous and, of course, doubly pompous and dignified in the presence of Master Georgy. When it was announced that the young gentleman was expected in Gillespie Street to dine with his mother, Mr. Jos commonly found that he had an engagement at the Club. Perhaps nobody was much grieved at his absence. On those days Mr. Sedley would commonly be induced to come out from his place of refuge in the upper stories, and there would be a small family party, whereof Major Dobbin pretty generally formed one. He was the ami de la maison—old Sedley’s friend, Emmy’s friend, Georgy’s friend, Jos’s counsel and adviser. ‘He might almost as well be at Madras for anything WE see of him,’ Miss Ann Dobbin remarked at Camberwell. Ah! Miss Ann, did it not strike you that it was not YOU whom the Major wanted to marry?
如果乔治和少校之间有真诚的喜欢，那么必须承认，男孩和他的叔叔之间不存在伟大的爱情。乔治有办法吹掉脸颊，把手伸进背心口袋，说：“上帝保佑我的灵魂，你别这么说。”完全按照老乔斯的风格，不可能不要笑。晚餐时，如果这个小伙子要一些不在餐桌上的东西，摆出那样的表情并使用那句最喜欢的短语，仆人们就会爆发。就连多宾也会对男孩的模仿行为突然发出一声尖叫。如果乔治没有当面模仿他的叔叔，那么只有多宾的斥责和阿米莉亚惊恐的恳求才让这个小可怜虫停止了。这位可敬的平民隐隐约约地意识到，这个小伙子认为他是个混蛋，并倾向于嘲笑他，他过去非常胆怯，当然，在乔治少爷面前，他显得格外傲慢和威严。当得知这位年轻绅士将在吉莱斯皮街与他的母亲共进晚餐时，乔斯先生通常会发现他在俱乐部有约会。也许没有人对他的缺席感到非常悲伤。在那些日子里，塞德利先生通常会被诱导从他在楼上的避难所出来，并且会有一个小型的家庭聚会，多宾少校通常都会参加。他是家庭之友——老塞德利的朋友、艾美的朋友、乔吉的朋友、乔斯的顾问和顾问。 “无论我们看到什么，他都可能在马德拉斯，”安·多宾小姐在坎伯韦尔说道。啊!安小姐，你难道没有想到少校想娶的不是你吗？

Joseph Sedley then led a life of dignified otiosity such as became a person of his eminence. His very first point, of course, was to become a member of the Oriental Club, where he spent his mornings in the company of his brother Indians, where he dined, or whence he brought home men to dine.
约瑟夫·塞德利随后过着有尊严的、贪婪的生活，最终成为了一位显赫人物。当然，他的首要目标是成为东方俱乐部的会员，在那里他与他的兄弟印第安人一起度过了早晨，他在那里吃饭，或者从那里他带回家的人来吃饭。

Amelia had to receive and entertain these gentlemen and their ladies. From these she heard how soon Smith would be in Council; how many lacs Jones had brought home with him, how Thomson’s House in London had refused the bills drawn by Thomson, Kibobjee, and Co., the Bombay House, and how it was thought the Calcutta House must go too; how very imprudent, to say the least of it, Mrs. Brown’s conduct (wife of Brown of the Ahmednuggur Irregulars) had been with young Swankey of the Body Guard, sitting up with him on deck until all hours, and losing themselves as they were riding out at the Cape; how Mrs. Hardyman had had out her thirteen sisters, daughters of a country curate, the Rev: Felix Rabbits, and married eleven of them, seven high up in the service; how Hornby was wild because his wife would stay in Europe, and Trotter was appointed Collector at Ummerapoora. This and similar talk took place at the grand dinners all round. They had the same conversation; the same silver dishes; the same saddles of mutton, boiled turkeys, and entrees. Politics set in a short time after dessert, when the ladies retired upstairs and talked about their complaints and their children.
阿米莉亚必须接待和招待这些绅士和女士们。她从这些人那里听说史密斯很快就会进入议会。琼斯带了多少拉克回家，伦敦的汤姆森之家如何拒绝了汤姆森、基博吉公司和孟买之家开出的账单，以及人们认为加尔各答之家也必须被撤走；至少可以说，布朗夫人（艾哈迈德古尔非正规军布朗的妻子）的行为是多么不谨慎，她和年轻的保镖斯旺基在一起，一直和他一起坐在甲板上，直到所有时间，然后就这样迷失了自己在海角骑马；哈迪曼夫人如何娶了她的十三个姐妹，她们是一位乡村牧师菲利克斯兔子的女儿，并娶了其中的十一个，其中七个在服务中身居高位；霍恩比因为他的妻子要留在欧洲而感到多么疯狂，特罗特被任命为乌默拉波拉的收藏家。这次和类似的谈话在各地的盛大晚宴上都有发生。他们有同样的谈话；同样的银盘子；同样的羊肉、水煮火鸡和主菜。甜点过后不久，政治就开始了，女士们回到楼上，谈论着她们的抱怨和她们的孩子。

Mutato nomine, it is all the same. Don’t the barristers’ wives talk about Circuit? Don’t the soldiers’ ladies gossip about the Regiment? Don’t the clergymen’s ladies discourse about Sunday-schools and who takes whose duty? Don’t the very greatest ladies of all talk about that small clique of persons to whom they belong? And why should our Indian friends not have their own conversation?—only I admit it is slow for the laymen whose fate it sometimes is to sit by and listen.
穆塔托提名，都是一样的。大律师的妻子们不都在谈论Circuit吗？士兵们的女士们不是都在议论军团吗？牧师们的女士们不是在谈论主日学校以及谁承担谁的职责吗？难道最伟大的女士们不都在谈论她们所属的那个小集团吗？为什么我们的印度朋友不应该进行自己的对话呢？——只是我承认，对于那些命运有时就是坐在一旁倾听的外行人来说，对话的速度很慢。

Before long Emmy had a visiting-book, and was driving about regularly in a carriage, calling upon Lady Bludyer (wife of MajorGeneral Sir Roger Bludyer, K.C.B., Bengal Army); Lady Huff, wife of Sir G. Huff, Bombay ditto; Mrs. Pice, the Lady of Pice the Director, &c. We are not long in using ourselves to changes in life. That carriage came round to Gillespie Street every day; that buttony boy sprang up and down from the box with Emmy’s and Jos’s visiting-cards; at stated hours Emmy and the carriage went for Jos to the Club and took him an airing; or, putting old Sedley into the vehicle, she drove the old man round the Regent’s Park. The lady’s maid and the chariot, the visiting-book and the buttony page, became soon as familiar to Amelia as the humble routine of Brompton. She accommodated herself to one as to the other. If Fate had ordained that she should be a Duchess, she would even have done that duty too. She was voted, in Jos’s female society, rather a pleasing young person—not much in her, but pleasing, and that sort of thing.
不久之后，艾美有了一本名录，并定期乘坐马车四处拜访布卢代尔夫人（孟加拉陆军 K.C.B. 罗杰·布卢代尔少将爵士的妻子）。赫夫夫人，G. 赫夫爵士的妻子，孟买同上；派斯夫人、派斯夫人导演等。我们用自己来改变生活的时间并不长。那辆马车每天都绕到吉莱斯皮街；那个身材魁梧的男孩拿着艾美和乔斯的名片从包厢里跳上跳下。在规定的时间艾美和马车去接乔斯去俱乐部并带他出去玩。或者，她把老塞德利放进车里，载着老人绕着摄政公园转了一圈。那位女士的女仆和战车、名录和纽扣页，很快就和布朗普顿简陋的日常生活一样熟悉了阿米莉亚。她既适应其中一个，也适应另一个。如果命运注定她应该成为公爵夫人，她甚至也会履行这一职责。在乔斯的女性社会里，她被选为一个令人愉悦的年轻人——她身上的特质不多，但令人愉悦，诸如此类。

The men, as usual, liked her artless kindness and simple refined demeanour. The gallant young Indian dandies at home on furlough— immense dandies these—chained and moustached—driving in tearing cabs, the pillars of the theatres, living at West End hotels— nevertheless admired Mrs. Osborne, liked to bow to her carriage in the park, and to be admitted to have the honour of paying her a morning visit. Swankey of the Body Guard himself, that dangerous youth, and the greatest buck of all the Indian army now on leave, was one day discovered by Major Dobbin tete-a-tete with Amelia, and describing the sport of pig-sticking to her with great humour and eloquence; and he spoke afterwards of a d—d king’s officer that’s always hanging about the house—a long, thin, queer-looking, oldish fellow—a dry fellow though, that took the shine out of a man in the talking line.
男人们一如既往地喜欢她的天真善良和朴素儒雅的举止。那些英俊的年轻印度纨绔子弟在家里休假——这些巨大的纨绔子弟——戴着铁链，留着小胡子——开着破旧的出租车，剧院的支柱，住在西区的酒店——尽管如此，他们还是钦佩奥斯本夫人，喜欢在公园里向她的马车鞠躬。 ，并有幸早上拜访她。保镖斯万基本人，那个危险的年轻人，也是所有正在休假的印度军队中最伟大的家伙，有一天被多宾少校发现，他正在与阿米莉亚一一交谈，并向她描述了刺猪运动，幽默感和口才；后来他谈到了一位国王的官员，他总是在房子里闲逛——一个又长又瘦，长相怪异的老家伙——不过是个干巴巴的家伙，这让说话的人黯然失色。

Had the Major possessed a little more personal vanity he would have been jealous of so dangerous a young buck as that fascinating Bengal Captain. But Dobbin was of too simple and generous a nature to have any doubts about Amelia. He was glad that the young men should pay her respect, and that others should admire her. Ever since her womanhood almost, had she not been persecuted and undervalued? It pleased him to see how kindness bought out her good qualities and how her spirits gently rose with her prosperity. Any person who appreciated her paid a compliment to the Major’s good judgement— that is, if a man may be said to have good judgement who is under the influence of Love’s delusion.
如果少校有更多的个人虚荣心的话，他一定会嫉妒像那位迷人的孟加拉船长这样危险的年轻雄鹿。但多宾生性单纯、慷慨，不会对阿米莉亚产生任何怀疑。他很高兴年轻人能尊重她，也很高兴其他人能钦佩她。几乎从她成年起，她就没有受到过迫害和低估吗？他很高兴看到她的善良如何换来了她的优良品质，以及她的精神如何随着她的繁荣而轻轻地振奋。任何欣赏她的人都会对少校的良好判断力表示称赞——也就是说，如果一个受到洛夫错觉影响的人也可以说具有良好的判断力。

After Jos went to Court, which we may be sure he did as a loyal subject of his Sovereign (showing himself in his full court suit at the Club, whither Dobbin came to fetch him in a very shabby old uniform) he who had always been a staunch Loyalist and admirer of George IV, became such a tremendous Tory and pillar of the State that he was for having Amelia to go to a Drawing-room, too. He somehow had worked himself up to believe that he was implicated in the maintenance of the public welfare and that the Sovereign would not be happy unless Jos Sedley and his family appeared to rally round him at St. James’s.
乔斯上法庭后，我们可以肯定，他是作为他的君主的忠实臣民（在俱乐部里穿着全套法庭西装展示自己，多宾穿着一件非常破旧的旧制服来接他的）他一直是他是一位坚定的保皇派和乔治四世的崇拜者，后来成为一位伟大的托利党人和国家的支柱，以至于他也赞成让阿米莉亚去客厅。不知何故，他让自己相信自己参与了公共福利的维护，除非乔斯·塞德利和他的家人在圣詹姆斯教堂聚集在他身边，否则君主不会高兴。

Emmy laughed. ‘Shall I wear the family diamonds, Jos?’ she said.
艾美笑了。 “乔斯，我可以佩戴家族的钻石吗？”她说。

‘I wish you would let me buy you some,’ thought the Major. ‘I should like to see any that were too good for you.’
“我希望你能让我给你买一些，”少校想。 “我希望看到任何对你来说太好了的东西。”

Chapter LXI
第六十一章


In Which Two Lights are Put Out
其中两盏灯熄灭

There came a day when the round of decorous pleasures and solemn gaieties in which Mr. Jos Sedley’s family indulged was interrupted by an event which happens in most houses. As you ascend the staircase of your house from the drawing towards the bedroom floors, you may have remarked a little arch in the wall right before you, which at once gives light to the stair which leads from the second story to the third (where the nursery and servants’ chambers commonly are) and serves for another purpose of utility, of which the undertaker’s men can give you a notion. They rest the coffins upon that arch, or pass them through it so as not to disturb in any unseemly manner the cold tenant slumbering within the black ark.
有一天，乔斯·塞德利先生一家人所享受的一轮高雅的欢乐和庄严的欢乐被大多数家庭中发生的一件事情打断了。当您从图纸上的楼梯向卧室地板走去时，您可能会注意到您面前的墙上有一个小拱门，它立即照亮了从二楼通向三楼的楼梯（那里是托儿所和仆人的房间通常是）并服务于另一个实用目的，殡仪馆的人可以给你一个概念。他们将棺材放在拱门上，或者让棺材穿过拱门，以免以任何不合时宜的方式打扰沉睡在黑色方舟内的冰冷房客。

That second-floor arch in a London house, looking up and down the well of the staircase and commanding the main thoroughfare by which the inhabitants are passing; by which cook lurks down before daylight to scour her pots and pans in the kitchen; by which young master stealthily ascends, having left his boots in the hall, and let himself in after dawn from a jolly night at the Club; down which miss comes rustling in fresh ribbons and spreading muslins, brilliant and beautiful, and prepared for conquest and the ball; or Master Tommy slides, preferring the banisters for a mode of conveyance, and disdaining danger and the stair; down which the mother is fondly carried smiling in her strong husband’s arms, as he steps steadily step by step, and followed by the monthly nurse, on the day when the medical man has pronounced that the charming patient may go downstairs; up which John lurks to bed, yawning, with a sputtering tallow candle, and to gather up before sunrise the boots which are awaiting him in the passages—that stair, up or down which babies are carried, old people are helped, guests are marshalled to the ball, the parson walks to the christening, the doctor to the sick-room, and the undertaker’s men to the upper floor—what a memento of Life, Death, and Vanity it is—that arch and stair—if you choose to consider it, and sit on the landing, looking up and down the well! The doctor will come up to us too for the last time there, my friend in motley. The nurse will look in at the curtains, and you take no notice—and then she will fling open the windows for a little and let in the air. Then they will pull down all the front blinds of the house and live in the back rooms— then they will send for the lawyer and other men in black, &c. Your comedy and mine will have been played then, and we shall be removed, oh, how far, from the trumpets, and the shouting, and the posturemaking. If we are gentlefolks they will put hatchments over our late domicile, with gilt cherubim, and mottoes stating that there is ‘Quiet in Heaven.’ Your son will new furnish the house, or perhaps let it, and go into a more modern quarter; your name will be among the ‘Members Deceased’ in the lists of your clubs next year. However much you may be mourned, your widow will like to have her weeds neatly made—the cook will send or come up to ask about dinner—the survivor will soon bear to look at your picture over the mantelpiece, which will presently be deposed from the place of honour, to make way for the portrait of the son who reigns.
伦敦一栋房子二楼的拱门，从楼梯口上下往下看，俯瞰着居民们经过的主干道；天亮之前，厨师就潜伏在厨房里，清洗锅碗瓢盆。年轻的主人把靴子留在大厅里，在俱乐部度过了一个愉快的夜晚，天亮后就偷偷地爬了上去。小姐披着新鲜的丝带，铺着平纹细布，沙沙作响地走下来，光彩夺目，美丽动人，准备好迎接征服和舞会；或者汤米大师滑梯，更喜欢用栏杆作为交通工具，蔑视危险和楼梯；当医生宣布迷人的病人可以下楼的那天，母亲深情地在她坚强的丈夫的怀里微笑着走下楼，他一步一步坚定地走下去，每月的护士跟着她。约翰潜伏在床上，打着哈欠，手里拿着一支溅射的牛油蜡烛，在日出之前收集在过道里等待他的靴子——那个楼梯，婴儿被抬上或下，老人被帮助，客人被整理。去参加舞会，牧师去参加洗礼，医生去病房，殡仪馆的人去楼上——那是一个多么纪念生命、死亡和虚荣的东西啊——那个拱门和楼梯——如果你选择的话想一想，坐在平台上，上下观察井！医生也会最后一次来找我们，我穿着杂色的朋友。护士会向里看窗帘，而你却没有注意到——然后她会打开窗户，让空气流通。然后他们会拉下房子前面所有的百叶窗，住在后面的房间里——然后他们会派人去请律师和其他黑衣人等等。 那时你我的喜剧都已经上演了，我们将远离喇叭、喊叫和摆姿势，哦，多远。如果我们是上流人士，他们会在我们最近的住所上盖上舱口盖，上面有镀金的小天使，还有一句格言，上面写着“天堂里很安静”。你的儿子会重新装修房子，或者也许出租它，搬进一个更现代的地方；明年您的名字将出现在您的俱乐部名单中的“已故会员”中。无论你多么哀悼，你的遗孀都会喜欢把她的杂草整理整齐——厨师会派人或过来询问晚餐的事——幸存者很快就会忍受在壁炉架上看你的照片，而壁炉架很快就会被废除。荣誉的地方，为统治儿子的肖像让路。

Which of the dead are most tenderly and passionately deplored? Those who love the survivors the least, I believe. The death of a child occasions a passion of grief and frantic tears, such as your end, brother reader, will never inspire. The death of an infant which scarce knew you, which a week’s absence from you would have caused to forget you, will strike you down more than the loss of your closest friend, or your first-born son—a man grown like yourself, with children of his own. We may be harsh and stern with Judah and Simeon—our love and pity gush out for Benjamin, the little one. And if you are old, as some reader of this may be or shall be old and rich, or old and poor—you may one day be thinking for yourself— ‘These people are very good round about me, but they won’t grieve too much when I am gone. I am very rich, and they want my inheritance—or very poor, and they are tired of supporting me.’
哪些死者受到最温柔和最热烈的哀悼？我相信那些最不爱幸存者的人。一个孩子的死亡会引发悲痛和疯狂的泪水，读者兄弟，你的结局永远不会激发人们的兴趣。一个几乎不认识你的婴儿的死亡，一个星期离开你就会导致忘记你，对你的打击比失去你最亲密的朋友或你的长子——一个像你一样长大的人，他自己的孩子。我们可能对犹大和西缅很严厉，但我们对便雅悯这个小孩子却倾注了爱和怜悯。如果你已经老了，正如本文的某些读者可能是或将是又老又富有，或者又老又穷——有一天你可能会自己思考——“这些人对我很好，但他们不会悲伤”当我离开的时候，太多了。我非常富有，他们想要我的遗产——或者非常贫穷，他们厌倦了支持我。

The period of mourning for Mrs. Sedley’s death was only just concluded, and Jos scarcely had had time to cast off his black and appear in the splendid waistcoats which he loved, when it became evident to those about Mr. Sedley that another event was at hand, and that the old man was about to go seek for his wife in the dark land whither she had preceded him. ‘The state of my father’s health,’ Jos Sedley solemnly remarked at the Club, ‘prevents me from giving any LARGE parties this season: but if you will come in quietly at half-past six, Chutney, my boy, and fake a homely dinner with one or two of the old set—I shall be always glad to see you.’ So Jos and his acquaintances dined and drank their claret among themselves in silence, whilst the sands of life were running out in the old man’s glass upstairs. The velvet-footed butler brought them their wine, and they composed themselves to a rubber after dinner, at which Major Dobbin would sometimes come and take a hand; and Mrs. Osborne would occasionally descend, when her patient above was settled for the night, and had commenced one of those lightly troubled slumbers which visit the pillow of old age.
塞德利夫人去世的哀悼期刚刚结束，乔斯几乎还没来得及脱下他的黑衣，穿上他喜爱的华丽背心，塞德利先生周围的人就清楚地意识到另一件事即将发生。手，老人正要去寻找他的妻子，在她先到的那片黑暗的土地上。 “我父亲的健康状况，”乔斯·塞德利在俱乐部庄严地说道，“使我无法在本赛季举办任何大型聚会：但如果你能在六点半悄悄地进来，酸辣酱，我的孩子，假装一个家常便饭与一两个老朋友共进晚餐——见到你们我总是很高兴。” 于是，乔斯和他的熟人一起吃饭，默默地喝着红葡萄酒，而楼上老人的玻璃杯里的生命之沙正在流淌。天鹅绒脚的管家给他们送来了酒，晚饭后他们就在橡胶上休息，多宾少校有时会过来帮忙。当她楼上的病人安顿下来并开始一种老年枕头上的轻微不安的睡眠时，奥斯本夫人偶尔会下楼。

The old man clung to his daughter during this sickness. He would take his broths and medicines from scarcely any other hand. To tend him became almost the sole business of her life. Her bed was placed close by the door which opened into his chamber, and she was alive at the slightest noise or disturbance from the couch of the querulous invalid. Though, to do him justice, he lay awake many an hour, silent and without stirring, unwilling to awaken his kind and vigilant nurse.
生病期间，老人一直紧紧地抱着女儿。他几乎不会从任何其他人手中拿走肉汤和药物。照顾他几乎成了她一生中唯一的事情。她的床放在通往他房间的门附近，只要从那个爱发牢骚的病人的沙发上发出最轻微的噪音或干扰，她就会活过来。不过，公平地说，他躺了好几个小时，一动不动，一言不发，不愿意吵醒他善良而警惕的护士。

He loved his daughter with more fondness now, perhaps, than ever he had done since the days of her childhood. In the discharge of gentle offices and kind filial duties, this simple creature shone most especially. ‘She walks into the room as silently as a sunbeam,’ Mr. Dobbin thought as he saw her passing in and out from her father’s room, a cheerful sweetness lighting up her face as she moved to and fro, graceful and noiseless. When women are brooding over their children, or busied in a sick-room, who has not seen in their faces those sweet angelic beams of love and pity?
他现在对女儿的爱，也许比她童年以来的任何时候都多。在履行温柔的职责和仁慈的孝道时，这个简单的生物尤其闪耀。 “她像阳光一样安静地走进房间，”多宾先生看着她在父亲的房间里进进出出，心里想，她来回走动时，脸上洋溢着一种愉快的甜蜜，优雅而无声。当妇女们为孩子忧心忡忡，或在病房里忙碌时，谁没有在她们的脸上看到天使般甜蜜的爱与怜悯的光芒呢？

A secret feud of some years’ standing was thus healed, and with a tacit reconciliation. In these last hours, and touched by her love and goodness, the old man forgot all his grief against her, and wrongs which he and his wife had many a long night debated: how she had given up everything for her boy; how she was careless of her parents in their old age and misfortune, and only thought of the child; how absurdly and foolishly, impiously indeed, she took on when George was removed from her. Old Sedley forgot these charges as he was making up his last account, and did justice to the gentle and uncomplaining little martyr. One night when she stole into his room, she found him awake, when the broken old man made his confession. ‘Oh, Emmy, I’ve been thinking we were very unkind and unjust to you,’ he said and put out his cold and feeble hand to her. She knelt down and prayed by his bedside, as he did too, having still hold of her hand. When our turn comes, friend, may we have such company in our prayers!
多年来的秘密不和就这样化解了，并达成了默契和解。在这最后的几个小时里，老人被她的爱和善良所感动，忘记了他对她的所有悲伤，以及他和他的妻子在许多个长夜里争论的错误：她如何为了她的儿子放弃了一切；她如何为她的儿子放弃了一切；她如何为她的儿子放弃了一切；她如何为她的儿子放弃了一切；她如何为她的儿子放弃了一切；她如何为她的儿子放弃了一切；她如何为她的儿子放弃了一切；她如何为她的儿子放弃了一切；她如何为她的儿子放弃了一切；她如何为她的儿子放弃一切；她如何为她的儿子放弃一切；她如何为她的儿子付出一切。当父母年老、不幸时，她对他们漠不关心，只想着孩子；当乔治离开她时，她的表现是多么荒唐、愚蠢、甚至不敬虔。老塞德利在编造最后的账目时忘记了这些指控，并为这位温柔而无怨无悔的小烈士伸张了正义。一天晚上，当她偷偷溜进他的房间时，她发现他醒着，而这位破碎的老人也向他坦白了。 “哦，艾米，我一直认为我们对你非常不友善和不公正，”他说，并向她伸出了冰冷无力的手。她跪在他的床边祈祷，他也这么做了，仍然握着她的手。当轮到我们的时候，朋友，愿我们在祈祷时有这样的陪伴！

Perhaps as he was lying awake then, his life may have passed before him—his early hopeful struggles, his manly successes and prosperity, his downfall in his declining years, and his present helpless condition—no chance of revenge against Fortune, which had had the better of him—neither name nor money to bequeath—a spentout, bootless life of defeat and disappointment, and the end here! Which, I wonder, brother reader, is the better lot, to die prosperous and famous, or poor and disappointed? To have, and to be forced to yield; or to sink out of life, having played and lost the game? That must be a strange feeling, when a day of our life comes and we say, ‘To-morrow, success or failure won’t matter much, and the sun will rise, and all the myriads of mankind go to their work or their pleasure as usual, but I shall be out of the turmoil.’
也许当他清醒地躺着时，他的一生可能已经在他面前过去了——他早年充满希望的奋斗，他男子气概的成功和繁荣，他晚年的垮台，以及他现在的无助状况——没有机会向命运报仇，命运已经他的更好之处——既没有名字，也没有金钱可以遗赠——他的一生在失败和失望中耗尽、一无所有，就这样结束了！读者兄弟，我想知道，是富裕而有名地死去，还是贫穷而失望地死去，哪个更好？拥有，又被迫屈服；还是因为玩了游戏却输了而从生活中沉沦？当我们生命中的某一天到来时，我们说：“明天，成功或失败都不再重要，太阳将会升起，无数的人类去工作或去他们的地方，这一定是一种奇怪的感觉。”像往常一样快乐，但我将摆脱混乱。

So there came one morning and sunrise when all the world got up and set about its various works and pleasures, with the exception of old John Sedley, who was not to fight with fortune, or to hope or scheme any more, but to go and take up a quiet and utterly unknown residence in a churchyard at Brompton by the side of his old wife.
于是，有一天早晨，日出时，全世界都起床了，开始了各自的工作和享乐，除了老约翰·塞德利，他不再与命运抗争，也不再希望或计划，而是去和在布朗普顿的一个教堂墓地里，他在老妻身边搬了一个安静且完全不为人知的住所。

Major Dobbin, Jos, and Georgy followed his remains to the grave, in a black cloth coach. Jos came on purpose from the Star and Garter at Richmond, whither he retreated after the deplorable event. He did not care to remain in the house, with the—under the circumstances, you understand. But Emmy stayed and did her duty as usual. She was bowed down by no especial grief, and rather solemn than sorrowful. She prayed that her own end might be as calm and painless, and thought with trust and reverence of the words which she had heard from her father during his illness, indicative of his faith, his resignation, and his future hope.
多宾少校、乔斯和乔治乘坐黑布马车跟随他的遗体来到坟墓。乔斯是特意从里士满的星嘉德酒店过来的，在这起可悲的事件发生后，他撤退到了那里。他不想留在房子里，在这种情况下，你明白。但艾米留下来并像往常一样履行她的职责。她并没有因为什么特别的悲伤而低头，与其说是悲伤，倒不如说是庄严。她祈祷自己的结局也能如此平静和无痛，并怀着信任和崇敬的心情思考她在父亲生病期间从他那里听到的话语，这些话语表明了他的信仰、他的辞职和他未来的希望。

Yes, I think that will be the better ending of the two, after all. Suppose you are particularly rich and well-to-do and say on that last day, ‘I am very rich; I am tolerably well known; I have lived all my life in the best society, and thank Heaven, come of a most respectable family. I have served my King and country with honour. I was in Parliament for several years, where, I may say, my speeches were listened to and pretty well received. I don’t owe any man a shilling: on the contrary, I lent my old college friend, Jack Lazarus, fifty pounds, for which my executors will not press him. I leave my daughters with ten thousand pounds apiece—very good portions for girls; I bequeath my plate and furniture, my house in Baker Street, with a handsome jointure, to my widow for her life; and my landed property, besides money in the funds, and my cellar of well-selected wine in Baker Street, to my son. I leave twenty pound a year to my valet; and I defy any man after I have gone to find anything against my character.’ Or suppose, on the other hand, your swan sings quite a different sort of dirge and you say, ‘I am a poor blighted, disappointed old fellow, and have made an utter failure through life. I was not endowed either with brains or with good fortune, and confess that I have committed a hundred mistakes and blunders. I own to having forgotten my duty many a time. I can’t pay what I owe. On my last bed I lie utterly helpless and humble, and I pray forgiveness for my weakness and throw myself, with a contrite heart, at the feet of the Divine Mercy.’ Which of these two speeches, think you, would be the best oration for your own funeral? Old Sedley made the last; and in that humble frame of mind, and holding by the hand of his daughter, life and disappointment and vanity sank away from under him.
是的，我认为这毕竟是两人更好的结局。假设你特别富有且富裕，并在最后一天说：“我非常富有；我很富有。”我还算有名气；我一生都生活在最好的社会里，谢天谢地，我来自一个最受尊敬的家庭。我光荣地为我的国王和国家服务。我在议会工作了几年，我可以说，我的演讲得到了广泛的倾听和好评。我不欠任何人一先令：相反，我借给我的大学老朋友杰克·拉扎勒斯五十英镑，我的遗嘱执行人不会向他施压。我给我的女儿们每人一万英镑——对于女孩来说已经是非常好的份额了。我将我的盘子和家具、我在贝克街的房子以及漂亮的联合财产遗赠给我的遗孀，以供她终生使用；还有我的土地财产，除了基金里的钱，还有我在贝克街的精心挑选的酒窖，都给了我的儿子。我每年留给我的男仆二十英镑；在我发现任何违背我性格的事情之后，我就会蔑视任何人。”或者，另一方面，假设你的天鹅唱着一种完全不同的挽歌，你说：“我是一个可怜的、枯萎的、失望的老家伙，并且一生彻底失败。我既无头脑，又无好运，承认我犯了一百个错误和大错。我承认自己多次忘记了自己的职责。我无法偿还我所欠的钱。在我最后一张床上，我完全无助而谦卑地躺着，我祈求宽恕我的软弱，并怀着悔罪的心，拜倒在神圣慈悲的脚前。”你认为，这两个演讲中哪一个是最好的演讲为你自己的葬礼？ 老塞德利排在最后。在这种谦卑的心态中，握着女儿的手，生活、失望和虚荣都从他的身下消失了。

‘You see,’ said old Osborne to George, ‘what comes of merit, and industry, and judicious speculations, and that. Look at me and my banker’s account. Look at your poor Grandfather Sedley and his failure. And yet he was a better man than I was, this day twenty years—a better man, I should say, by ten thousand pound.’
“你看，”老奥斯本对乔治说，“功绩、勤奋、明智的投机等等会带来什么。”看看我和我的银行账户。看看你可怜的祖父塞德利和他的失败。然而，二十年来，他比我更好——我应该说，比我好一万英镑。

Beyond these people and Mr. Clapp’s family, who came over from Brompton to pay a visit of condolence, not a single soul alive ever cared a penny piece about old John Sedley, or remembered the existence of such a person.
除了这些人和从布朗普顿前来吊唁的克拉普先生的家人之外，没有一个活着的人关心过老约翰·塞德利的一分钱，或者记得这样一个人的存在。

When old Osborne first heard from his friend Colonel Buckler (as little Georgy had already informed us) how distinguished an officer Major Dobbin was, he exhibited a great deal of scornful incredulity and expressed his surprise how ever such a feller as that should possess either brains or reputation. But he heard of the Major’s fame from various members of his society. Sir William Dobbin had a great opinion of his son and narrated many stories illustrative of the Major’s learning, valour, and estimation in the world’s opinion. Finally, his name appeared in the lists of one or two great parties of the nobility, and this circumstance had a prodigious effect upon the old aristocrat of Russell Square.
当老奥斯本第一次从他的朋友巴克勒上校那里听说多宾少校是一位多么杰出的军官时（小乔吉已经告诉我们了），他表现出了极大的轻蔑和怀疑，并表示他很惊讶像这样的家伙竟然拥有这样的大脑。或声誉。但他从社会上的不同成员那里听说了少校的名气。威廉·多宾爵士对他的儿子评价很高，并讲述了许多故事来说明少校的学识、勇气和世人对少校的评价。终于，他的名字出现在一两个贵族大派的名单中，这对罗素广场的老贵族来说，产生了巨大的影响。

The Major’s position, as guardian to Georgy, whose possession had been ceded to his grandfather, rendered some meetings between the two gentlemen inevitable; and it was in one of these that old Osborne, a keen man of business, looking into the Major’s accounts with his ward and the boy’s mother, got a hint, which staggered him very much, and at once pained and pleased him, that it was out of William Dobbin’s own pocket that a part of the fund had been supplied upon which the poor widow and the child had subsisted.
少校的职位是乔治的监护人，乔治的财产已被转让给他的祖父，这使得两位先生之间的一些会面不可避免。正是在其中一本中，老奥斯本，一个热衷于生意的人，在与他的监护人和男孩的母亲一起调查少校的账目时，得到了一个暗示，这让他非常震惊，同时又让他痛苦又高兴，那就是，这笔钱的一部分是由威廉·多宾自己掏腰包提供的，可怜的寡妇和孩子就靠这些钱维持生计。

When pressed upon the point, Dobbin, who could not tell lies, blushed and stammered a good deal and finally confessed. ‘The marriage,’ he said (at which his interlocutor’s face grew dark) ‘was very much my doing. I thought my poor friend had gone so far that retreat from his engagement would have been dishonour to him and death to Mrs. Osborne, and I could do no less, when she was left without resources, than give what money I could spare to maintain her.’
当被追问到这一点时，不会说谎的多宾脸红了，结结巴巴地说了很多话，最后终于承认了。 “这桩婚姻，”他说（对话者的脸色变黑了）“很大程度上是我造成的。”我认为我可怜的朋友已经走得太远了，取消订婚对他来说是一种耻辱，对奥斯本夫人来说是一种耻辱，而当她失去资源时，我所能做的就是捐出我能抽出的钱来维持生活。她。'

‘Major D.,’ Mr. Osborne said, looking hard at him and turning very red too—‘you did me a great injury; but give me leave to tell you, sir, you are an honest feller. There’s my hand, sir, though I little thought that my flesh and blood was living on you—‘ and the pair shook hands, with great confusion on Major Dobbin’s part, thus found out in his act of charitable hypocrisy.
“D少校，”奥斯本先生认真地看着他，脸也涨红了——“你对我造成了很大的伤害；你让我受伤了。”但请允许我告诉你，先生，你是一个诚实的人。这是我的手，先生，尽管我几乎没有想到我的血肉就在你身上——”两人握了握手，多宾少校感到非常困惑，这从他慈善的虚伪行为中就可以看出。

He strove to soften the old man and reconcile him towards his son’s memory. ‘He was such a noble fellow,’ he said, ‘that all of us loved him, and would have done anything for him. I, as a young man in those days, was flattered beyond measure by his preference for me, and was more pleased to be seen in his company than in that of the Commander-in-Chief. I never saw his equal for pluck and daring and all the qualities of a soldier”; and Dobbin told the old father as many stories as he could remember regarding the gallantry and achievements of his son. ‘And Georgy is so like him,’ the Major added.
他努力让老人心软，让他接受对儿子的记忆。 “他是一个如此高尚的人，”他说，“我们所有人都爱他，愿意为他做任何事。那时我还是个年轻人，他对我的偏爱让我受宠若惊，而且更高兴看到他在身边，而不是在总司令身边。我从未见过他在勇气、勇气以及士兵的所有品质方面与他相媲美”；多宾向这位老父亲讲述了他所记得的许多关于他儿子的英勇和成就的故事。 “乔治很像他，”少校补充道。

‘He’s so like him that he makes me tremble sometimes,’ the grandfather said.
“他太像他了，有时让我颤抖，”祖父说。

On one or two evenings the Major came to dine with Mr. Osborne (it was during the time of the sickness of Mr. Sedley), and as the two sat together in the evening after dinner, all their talk was about the departed hero. The father boasted about him according to his wont, glorifying himself in recounting his son’s feats and gallantry, but his mood was at any rate better and more charitable than that in which he had been disposed until now to regard the poor fellow; and the Christian heart of the kind Major was pleased at these symptoms of returning peace and good-will. On the second evening old Osborne called Dobbin William, just as he used to do at the time when Dobbin and George were boys together, and the honest gentleman was pleased by that mark of reconciliation.
有一两个晚上，少校来和奥斯本先生一起吃饭（那是在塞德利先生生病期间），晚饭后两人坐在一起，谈论的都是关于这位去世的英雄。父亲按照自己的习惯夸耀他，在讲述儿子的功绩和英勇时夸耀自己，但无论如何，他的心情比他迄今为止对待这个可怜的家伙的心情要好得多，更加仁慈。善良的基督教徒少校对这些恢复和平与善意的迹象感到高兴。第二天晚上，老奥斯本给多宾·威廉打电话，就像多宾和乔治小时候在一起时那样，这位诚实的绅士对这种和解感到高兴。

On the next day at breakfast, when Miss Osborne, with the asperity of her age and character, ventured to make some remark reflecting slightingly upon the Major’s appearance or behaviour—the master of the house interrupted her. ‘You’d have been glad enough to git him for yourself, Miss O. But them grapes are sour. Ha! ha! Major William is a fine feller.’
第二天吃早饭时，奥斯本小姐由于她的年龄和性格的严厉，大胆地发表了一些对少校的外表或行为轻蔑的评论——房子的主人打断了她。 “O小姐，你本来会很高兴自己得到他的。但这些都是酸葡萄。”哈！哈！威廉少校是个好人。

‘That he is, Grandpapa,’ said Georgy approvingly; and going up close to the old gentleman, he took a hold of his large grey whiskers, and laughed in his face good-humouredly, and kissed him. And he told the story at night to his mother, who fully agreed with the boy. ‘Indeed he is,’ she said. ‘Your dear father always said so. He is one of the best and most upright of men.’ Dobbin happened to drop in very soon after this conversation, which made Amelia blush perhaps, and the young scapegrace increased the confusion by telling Dobbin the other part of the story. ‘I say, Dob,’ he said, ‘there’s such an uncommon nice girl wants to marry you. She’s plenty of tin; she wears a front; and she scolds the servants from morning till night.’ ‘Who is it?’ asked Dobbin. ‘It’s Aunt O.,’ the boy answered. ‘Grandpapa said so. And I say, Dob, how prime it would be to have you for my uncle.’ Old Sedley’s quavering voice from the next room at this moment weakly called for Amelia, and the laughing ended.
“确实是这样，爷爷。”乔治赞许地说。他走到老先生身边，抓住他灰色的大胡子，对着他的脸幽默地大笑，并吻了他。晚上他把这个故事告诉了他的母亲，母亲完全同意男孩的观点。 “确实如此，”她说。 “你亲爱的父亲总是这么说。他是最优秀、最正直的人之一。”谈话结束后不久，多宾碰巧过来了，这可能让阿米莉亚脸红了，而这位年轻的坏人把故事的另一部分告诉了多宾，增加了混乱。 “我说，多布，”他说，“有一个如此不寻常的好女孩想嫁给你。”她有很多锡；她穿着正面； “她是谁？”多宾问道。 “是O姨妈，”男孩回答道。 ‘爷爷是这么说的。我说，多布，如果你能成为我的叔叔，那该多好啊。”这时，隔壁房间里传来老塞德利颤抖的声音，有气无力地呼唤阿米莉亚，笑声结束了。

That old Osborne’s mind was changing was pretty clear. He asked George about his uncle sometimes, and laughed at the boy’s imitation of the way in which Jos said ‘God-bless-my-soul’ and gobbled his soup. Then he said, ‘It’s not respectful, sir, of you younkers to be imitating of your relations. Miss O., when you go out adriving to-day, leave my card upon Mr. Sedley, do you hear? There’s no quarrel betwigst me and him anyhow.’
老奥斯本的想法正在改变，这是很明显的。有时他会问乔治关于他叔叔的事，并嘲笑男孩模仿乔斯说“上帝保佑我的灵魂”并狼吞虎咽地喝汤的方式。然后他说：“先生，你们这些年轻人模仿你们的亲戚，这是对你们的不尊重。” O.小姐，今天你开车出去的时候，把我的名片留给塞德利先生，听到了吗？无论如何，我和他之间没有任何争吵。

The card was returned, and Jos and the Major were asked to dinner— to a dinner the most splendid and stupid that perhaps ever Mr. Osborne gave; every inch of the family plate was exhibited, and the best company was asked. Mr. Sedley took down Miss O. to dinner, and she was very gracious to him; whereas she hardly spoke to the Major, who sat apart from her, and by the side of Mr. Osborne, very timid. Jos said, with great solemnity, it was the best turtle soup he had ever tasted in his life, and asked Mr. Osborne where he got his Madeira.
名片被退回，乔斯和少校被邀请去吃晚饭——一顿也许是奥斯本先生举办过的最华丽、最愚蠢的晚宴。家盘每一寸都展示出来，问最好的公司。塞德利先生带O小姐去吃晚饭，她对他非常客气。而她几乎不跟少校说话，少校坐在奥斯本先生旁边，与她分开，非常胆怯。乔斯非常严肃地说，这是他一生中尝过的最好的甲鱼汤，并问奥斯本先生从哪里得到他的马德拉酒。

‘It is some of Sedley’s wine,’ whispered the butler to his master. ‘I’ve had it a long time, and paid a good figure for it, too,’ Mr. Osborne said aloud to his guest, and then whispered to his righthand neighbour how he had got it ‘at the old chap’s sale.’
“这是塞德利的一些酒。”管家低声对他的主人说道。 “我已经买了它很久了，而且也花了很多钱。”奥斯本先生对他的客人大声说道，然后低声对他右手边的邻居说他是如何在“老家伙的拍卖会上”得到它的。

More than once he asked the Major about—about Mrs. George Osborne— a theme on which the Major could be very eloquent when he chose. He told Mr. Osborne of her sufferings—of her passionate attachment to her husband, whose memory she worshipped still—of the tender and dutiful manner in which she had supported her parents, and given up her boy, when it seemed to her her duty to do so. ‘You don’t know what she endured, sir,’ said honest Dobbin with a tremor in his voice, ‘and I hope and trust you will be reconciled to her. If she took your son away from you, she gave hers to you; and however much you loved your George, depend on it, she loved hers ten times more.’
他不止一次向少校询问关于乔治·奥斯本夫人的话题，只要少校选择，他可以非常雄辩地谈论这个话题。他向奥斯本先生讲述了她的痛苦——她对丈夫的热情依恋，她仍然崇拜他的记忆——她温柔而尽职地支持她的父母，并放弃了她的儿子，当她认为这是她的责任时这样做。 “你不知道她经历了什么，先生，”诚实的多宾声音颤抖地说，“我希望并相信你会与她和解。如果她把你的儿子从你身边夺走，她就把她的儿子交给了你；不管你有多爱你的乔治，相信它，她爱她的乔治十倍。

‘By God, you are a good feller, sir,’ was all Mr. Osborne said. It had never struck him that the widow would feel any pain at parting from the boy, or that his having a fine fortune could grieve her. A reconciliation was announced as speedy and inevitable, and Amelia’s heart already began to beat at the notion of the awful meeting with George’s father.
“上帝啊，你是个好人，先生。”奥斯本先生只说了这么一句话。他从来没有想到，寡妇在与男孩分离时会感到任何痛苦，或者他拥有丰厚的财富会让她伤心。和解被宣布为迅速且不可避免的，一想到与乔治父亲的可怕会面，阿米莉亚的心就开始跳动。

It was never, however, destined to take place. Old Sedley’s lingering illness and death supervened, after which a meeting was for some time impossible. That catastrophe and other events may have worked upon Mr. Osborne. He was much shaken of late, and aged, and his mind was working inwardly. He had sent for his lawyers, and probably changed something in his will. The medical man who looked in pronounced him shaky, agitated, and talked of a little blood and the seaside; but he took neither of these remedies.
然而，这从未注定会发生。老塞德利的病情持续恶化，随后去世，此后有一段时间无法见面。那场灾难和其他事件可能对奥斯本先生产生了影响。他最近受到了很大的震动，而且年纪也大了，他的心思在向内运转。他已经派人请了律师，并且很可能修改了遗嘱中的某些内容。来看病的医生说他浑身颤抖、焦躁不安，还谈到了一点血和海边的事。但他没有采取这些补救措施。

One day when he should have come down to breakfast, his servant missing him, went into his dressing-room and found him lying at the foot of the dressing-table in a fit. Miss Osborne was apprised; the doctors were sent for; Georgy stopped away from school; the bleeders and cuppers came. Osborne partially regained cognizance, but never could speak again, though he tried dreadfully once or twice, and in four days he died. The doctors went down, and the undertaker’s men went up the stairs, and all the shutters were shut towards the garden in Russell Square. Bullock rushed from the City in a hurry. ‘How much money had he left to that boy? Not half, surely? Surely share and share alike between the three?’ It was an agitating moment.
有一天，当他本该下楼吃早餐的时候，他的仆人却不见他，走进他的更衣室，发现他气喘吁吁地躺在梳妆台脚下。奥斯本小姐得到了消息。医生被请来了；乔治不再上学了；放血者和拔罐者来了。奥斯本部分恢复了意识，但再也不能说话了，尽管他可怕地尝试过一两次，四天后他就死了。医生们下了楼，殡仪馆的人上了楼梯，所有面向罗素广场花园的百叶窗都关闭了。布洛克匆匆从城里赶了过来。 “他给那个男孩留下了多少钱？”肯定不是一半吧？一定要在三人之间分享吗？’这是一个激动人心的时刻。

What was it that poor old man tried once or twice in vain to say? I hope it was that he wanted to see Amelia and be reconciled before he left the world to one dear and faithful wife of his son: it was most likely that, for his will showed that the hatred which he had so long cherished had gone out of his heart.
那个可怜的老人一两次徒劳地想说什么？我希望他想在把这个世界留给他儿子的一位亲爱而忠实的妻子之前见到阿米莉亚并和解：很可能是这样，因为他的遗嘱表明，他长期以来所怀有的仇恨已经消失了他的心。

They found in the pocket of his dressing-gown the letter with the great red seal which George had written him from Waterloo. He had looked at the other papers too, relative to his son, for the key of the box in which he kept them was also in his pocket, and it was found the seals and envelopes had been broken—very likely on the night before the seizure—when the butler had taken him tea into his study, and found him reading in the great red family Bible.
他们在他晨衣的口袋里发现了一封盖着红色大印章的信，是乔治从滑铁卢给他写的。他也查看了与他儿子有关的其他文件，因为他存放这些文件的盒子的钥匙也在他的口袋里，而且发现封条和信封都被打破了——很可能是在前一天晚上。癫痫发作——当管家把他的茶带到他的书房时，发现他正在阅读一本伟大的红色家庭圣经。

When the will was opened, it was found that half the property was left to George, and the remainder between the two sisters. Mr. Bullock to continue, for their joint benefit, the affairs of the commercial house, or to go out, as he thought fit. An annuity of five hundred pounds, chargeable on George’s property, was left to his mother, ‘the widow of my beloved son, George Osborne,’ who was to resume the guardianship of the boy.
当遗嘱被打开时，发现一半的财产留给了乔治，其余的则归两姐妹所有。布洛克先生为了他们的共同利益，继续处理商业大厦的事务，或者出去，按他认为合适的方式进行。乔治的财产上有五百英镑的年金留给了他的母亲，“我心爱的儿子乔治·奥斯本的遗孀”，她将恢复对男孩的监护权。

‘Major William Dobbin, my beloved son’s friend,’ was appointed executor; ‘and as out of his kindness and bounty, and with his own private funds, he maintained my grandson and my son’s widow, when they were otherwise without means of support’ (the testator went on to say) ‘I hereby thank him heartily for his love and regard for them, and beseech him to accept such a sum as may be sufficient to purchase his commission as a Lieutenant-Colonel, or to be disposed of in any way he may think fit.’
“威廉·多宾少校，我心爱儿子的朋友”被任命为遗嘱执行人； “出于他的仁慈和慷慨，并用他自己的私人资金，当我的孙子和我儿子的遗孀没有经济来源时，他供养了他们”（遗嘱人接着说）“我在此衷心感谢他他对他们的爱和尊重，并恳求他接受一笔足以购买他作为中校的佣金的款项，或者以他认为合适的任何方式处置。

When Amelia heard that her father-in-law was reconciled to her, her heart melted, and she was grateful for the fortune left to her. But when she heard how Georgy was restored to her, and knew how and by whom, and how it was William’s bounty that supported her in poverty, how it was William who gave her her husband and her son—oh, then she sank on her knees, and prayed for blessings on that constant and kind heart; she bowed down and humbled herself, and kissed the feet, as it were, of that beautiful and generous affection.
当阿米莉亚听说公公与她和好时，她的心都融化了，她很感激公公留给她的财产。但是，当她听说乔治如何回到她身边，知道如何以及由谁恢复，以及威廉的慷慨如何支持她度过贫困，威廉如何给她丈夫和儿子时——哦，然后她就沉迷在她的生活中。跪下，祈求那颗坚定善良的心得到祝福；她弯下腰，谦卑自己，亲吻那美丽而慷慨的感情的脚。

And gratitude was all that she had to pay back for such admirable devotion and benefits—only gratitude! If she thought of any other return, the image of George stood up out of the grave and said, ‘You are mine, and mine only, now and forever.’
对于如此令人钦佩的奉献和利益，她所要回报的就是感激——只有感激！如果她想到任何其他的回报，乔治的形象就会从坟墓里站起来，说：“你是我的，而且只属于我，从现在到永远。”

William knew her feelings: had he not passed his whole life in divining them?
威廉知道她的感受：他不是用一生来占卜它们吗？

When the nature of Mr. Osborne’s will became known to the world, it was edifying to remark how Mrs. George Osborne rose in the estimation of the people forming her circle of acquaintance. The servants of Jos’s establishment, who used to question her humble orders and say they would ‘ask Master’ whether or not they could obey, never thought now of that sort of appeal. The cook forgot to sneer at her shabby old gowns (which, indeed, were quite eclipsed by that lady’s finery when she was dressed to go to church of a Sunday evening), the others no longer grumbled at the sound of her bell, or delayed to answer that summons. The coachman, who grumbled that his ‘osses should be brought out and his carriage made into an hospital for that old feller and Mrs. O., drove her with the utmost alacrity now, and trembling lest he should be superseded by Mr. Osborne’s coachman, asked ‘what them there Russell Square coachmen knew about town, and whether they was fit to sit on a box before a lady?’ Jos’s friends, male and female, suddenly became interested about Emmy, and cards of condolence multiplied on her hall table. Jos himself, who had looked on her as a good-natured harmless pauper, to whom it was his duty to give victuals and shelter, paid her and the rich little boy, his nephew, the greatest respect—was anxious that she should have change and amusement after her troubles and trials, ‘poor dear girl’—and began to appear at the breakfast-table, and most particularly to ask how she would like to dispose of the day.
当奥斯本先生的遗嘱的性质为世人所知时，乔治·奥斯本夫人在她的熟人圈子里的人们对她的评价如何不断提高，这令人深受启发。乔斯机构的仆人们过去常常质疑她卑微的命令，并说他们会“询问主人”是否可以服从，但现在从未想到过这种呼吁。厨师忘记嘲笑她破旧的旧礼服（确实，当那位女士在周日晚上盛装打扮去教堂时，她的华丽礼服显得黯然失色），其他人不再对她的钟声抱怨，或拖延回应那个召唤。车夫抱怨说他的老家伙应该被带出来，他的马车应该被改造成那个老家伙和O夫人的医院，现在他以最大的速度驾驶着她，并且颤抖着唯恐自己会被奥斯本先生的车夫取代。 ，问“罗素广场的车夫对这座城市了解多少，以及他们是否适合坐在一位女士面前的包厢上？”乔斯的男女朋友突然对艾美奖产生了兴趣，她大厅的桌子上的吊唁卡成倍增加。乔斯本人把她视为一个心地善良、无害的乞丐，向她提供食物和住所是他的责任，他对她和那个富有的小男孩，他的侄子，给予了最大的尊重——他渴望她能有所改变。在她的麻烦和考验之后，“可怜的亲爱的女孩”开始出现在早餐桌上，尤其是问她想如何度过这一天。

In her capacity of guardian to Georgy, she, with the consent of the Major, her fellow-trustee, begged Miss Osborne to live in the Russell Square house as long as ever she chose to dwell there; but that lady, with thanks, declared that she never could think of remaining alone in that melancholy mansion, and departed in deep mourning to Cheltenham, with a couple of her old domestics. The rest were liberally paid and dismissed, the faithful old butler, whom Mrs. Osborne proposed to retain, resigning and preferring to invest his savings in a public-house, where, let us hope, he was not unprosperous. Miss Osborne not choosing to live in Russell Square, Mrs. Osborne also, after consultation, declined to occupy the gloomy old mansion there. The house was dismantled; the rich furniture and effects, the awful chandeliers and dreary blank mirrors packed away and hidden, the rich rosewood drawing-room suite was muffled in straw, the carpets were rolled up and corded, the small select library of well-bound books was stowed into two wine-chests, and the whole paraphernalia rolled away in several enormous vans to the Pantechnicon, where they were to lie until Georgy’s majority. And the great heavy dark plate-chests went off to Messrs. Stumpy and Rowdy, to lie in the cellars of those eminent bankers until the same period should arrive.
作为乔治的监护人，她在征得她的受托人少校的同意后，恳求奥斯本小姐住在罗素广场的房子里，只要她选择住在那里就可以了。但那位女士满怀感激地宣称，她永远不会想到独自留在这座忧郁的宅邸里，然后带着她的几个老仆人，带着深深的哀悼，前往切尔滕纳姆。其余的人都得到了丰厚的报酬并被解雇了，奥斯本夫人提议保留的忠实的老管家辞职了，宁愿将自己的积蓄投资于一家酒店，让我们希望，他在那儿不会不富裕。奥斯本小姐没有选择住在罗素广场，奥斯本夫人也经过协商，拒绝入住那里那座阴暗的老宅。房子被拆了；丰富的家具和效果，可怕的枝形吊灯和沉闷的空白镜子被打包和隐藏，丰富的红木客厅套房用稻草包裹起来，地毯卷起来并用绳子捆起来，小型精选图书馆装订精良的书籍被存放在里面。两个酒箱，所有的用具都装在几辆大货车里运到 Pantechnicon，在那里直到乔治多数人同意为止。又大又重的黑色盘子柜被送到了斯图皮先生和罗迪先生那里，放在那些著名银行家的地窖里，直到同一时期到来。

One day Emmy, with George in her hand and clad in deep sables, went to visit the deserted mansion which she had not entered since she was a girl. The place in front was littered with straw where the vans had been laden and rolled off. They went into the great blank rooms, the walls of which bore the marks where the pictures and mirrors had hung. Then they went up the great blank stone staircases into the upper rooms, into that where grandpapa died, as George said in a whisper, and then higher still into George’s own room. The boy was still clinging by her side, but she thought of another besides him. She knew that it had been his father’s room as well as his own.
有一天，艾美手里拿着乔治，穿着深黑貂皮衣服，去参观她从小就没有进过的废弃宅邸。前面的地方散落着稻草，货车是在上面装满并滚下的。他们走进空荡荡的大房间，房间的墙上有挂过图画和镜子的痕迹。然后他们走上空旷的石阶，进入楼上的房间，进入祖父去世的地方，乔治低声说道，然后再上楼进入乔治自己的房间。男孩还依偎在她身边，但她却想到了除了他之外的另一个男孩。她知道这是他父亲的房间，也是他自己的房间。

She went up to one of the open windows (one of those at which she used to gaze with a sick heart when the child was first taken from her), and thence as she looked out she could see, over the trees of Russell Square, the old house in which she herself was born, and where she had passed so many happy days of sacred youth. They all came back to her, the pleasant holidays, the kind faces, the careless, joyful past times, and the long pains and trials that had since cast her down. She thought of these and of the man who had been her constant protector, her good genius, her sole benefactor, her tender and generous friend.
她走到一扇开着的窗户前（当孩子第一次被从她身边带走时，她常常怀着不舒服的心情注视着这扇窗户），从那里向外望去，她可以看到，越过罗素广场的树木，她自己出生在这栋老房子里，她在那里度过了许多神圣青春的快乐时光。那些美好的假期，那些和蔼可亲的面孔，那些无忧无虑、快乐的过去，还有那段让她心灰意冷的长期痛苦和磨难，都回到了她的脑海里。她想到了这些，想到了那个一直是她的保护者、她的天才、她唯一的恩人、她温柔而慷慨的朋友的男人。

‘Look here, Mother,’ said Georgy, ‘here’s a G.O. scratched on the glass with a diamond, I never saw it before, I never did it.’
“妈妈，你看这里，”乔吉说，“玻璃上刻着一颗 G.O.，我以前从没见过，也从没这么做过。”

‘It was your father’s room long before you were born, George,’ she said, and she blushed as she kissed the boy.
“早在你出生之前，这就是你父亲的房间，乔治，”她说，吻着男孩时她脸红了。

She was very silent as they drove back to Richmond, where they had taken a temporary house: where the smiling lawyers used to come bustling over to see her (and we may be sure noted the visit in the bill): and where of course there was a room for Major Dobbin too, who rode over frequently, having much business to transact on behalf of his little ward.
当他们开车返回里士满时，她非常沉默，他们在那里住了一个临时房子：那些微笑的律师常常忙着来看望她（我们可以肯定在账单上注意到了这次访问）：当然还有哪里这也是多宾少校的房间，他经常骑马过来，代表他的小病房处理很多事务。

Georgy at this time was removed from Mr. Veal’s on an unlimited holiday, and that gentleman was engaged to prepare an inscription for a fine marble slab, to be placed up in the Foundling under the monument of Captain George Osborne.
乔治此时在无限期的假期中离开了维尔先生的家，那位先生正忙着为一块精美的大理石板准备铭文，并将其放置在育婴堂乔治·奥斯本船长的纪念碑下。

The female Bullock, aunt of Georgy, although despoiled by that little monster of one-half of the sum which she expected from her father, nevertheless showed her charitableness of spirit by being reconciled to the mother and the boy. Roehampton is not far from Richmond, and one day the chariot, with the golden bullocks emblazoned on the panels, and the flaccid children within, drove to Amelia’s house at Richmond; and the Bullock family made an irruption into the garden, where Amelia was reading a book, Jos was in an arbour placidly dipping strawberries into wine, and the Major in one of his Indian jackets was giving a back to Georgy, who chose to jump over him. He went over his head and bounded into the little advance of Bullocks, with immense black bows in their hats, and huge black sashes, accompanying their mourning mamma.
女布洛克，乔吉的姨妈，虽然被那个小怪物掠夺了她所期望从父亲那里得到的一半的钱，但仍然表现出了她仁慈的精神，与母亲和男孩和解。罗汉普顿离里士满不远，有一天，面板上装饰着金色公牛的战车和车内软弱无力的孩子们驶向阿米莉亚在里士满的家。布洛克一家闯入花园，阿米莉亚正在花园里读书，乔斯在凉亭里平静地把草莓浸入酒中，少校穿着一件印第安夹克，背对着乔治，乔治选择了跳过去。他。他越过头顶，跳进布洛克的小队，他们的帽子上戴着巨大的黑色蝴蝶结，系着巨大的黑色腰带，陪伴着他们哀悼的妈妈。

‘He is just of the age for Rosa,’ the fond parent thought, and glanced towards that dear child, an unwholesome little miss of seven years of age.
“他正值罗莎的年龄，”慈爱的父母想道，同时瞥了一眼那个亲爱的孩子，一个不健康的七岁小姑娘。

‘Rosa, go and kiss your dear cousin,’ Mrs. Frederick said. ‘Don’t you know me, George? I am your aunt.’
“罗莎，去亲吻你亲爱的表弟吧，”弗雷德里克夫人说。 “你不认识我吗，乔治？我是你阿姨。

‘I know you well enough,’ George said; ‘but I don’t like kissing, please”; and he retreated from the obedient caresses of his cousin.
“我很了解你，”乔治说。 “但我不喜欢接吻，拜托”；他从表弟顺从的爱抚中退缩了。

‘Take me to your dear mamma, you droll child,’ Mrs. Frederick said, and those ladies accordingly met, after an absence of more than fifteen years. During Emmy’s cares and poverty the other had never once thought about coming to see her, but now that she was decently prosperous in the world, her sister-in-law came to her as a matter of course.
“带我去见你亲爱的妈妈，你这个滑稽的孩子。”弗雷德里克夫人说，那些女士们在阔别十五年之后就这样见面了。在艾美忧心忡忡、贫穷的时候，对方从来没有想过来看望她，但现在她已经在世上过得体面了，她的嫂子来找她也是理所当然的事情。

So did numbers more. Our old friend, Miss Swartz, and her husband came thundering over from Hampton Court, with flaming yellow liveries, and was as impetuously fond of Amelia as ever. Miss Swartz would have liked her always if she could have seen her. One must do her that justice. But, que voulez vous?—in this vast town one has not the time to go and seek one’s friends; if they drop out of the rank they disappear, and we march on without them. Who is ever missed in Vanity Fair?
更多的数字也是如此。我们的老朋友斯沃茨小姐和她的丈夫穿着火红的黄色制服从汉普顿宫疾驰而来，一如既往地喜爱阿米莉亚。如果斯沃茨小姐能见到她的话，她一定会一直喜欢她的。人们必须公正地对待她。但是，que voulez vous？——在这个广阔的城镇里，人们没有时间去寻找朋友；如果他们退出队伍，他们就会消失，而我们则在没有他们的情况下继续前进。 《名利场》里谁曾被错过？

But so, in a word, and before the period of grief for Mr. Osborne’s death had subsided, Emmy found herself in the centre of a very genteel circle indeed, the members of which could not conceive that anybody belonging to it was not very lucky. There was scarce one of the ladies that hadn’t a relation a Peer, though the husband might be a drysalter in the City. Some of the ladies were very blue and well informed, reading Mrs. Somerville and frequenting the Royal Institution; others were severe and Evangelical, and held by Exeter Hall. Emmy, it must be owned, found herself entirely at a loss in the midst of their clavers, and suffered woefully on the one or two occasions on which she was compelled to accept Mrs. Frederick Bullock’s hospitalities. That lady persisted in patronizing her and determined most graciously to form her. She found Amelia’s milliners for her and regulated her household and her manners. She drove over constantly from Roehampton and entertained her friend with faint fashionable fiddle-faddle and feeble Court slip-slop. Jos liked to hear it, but the Major used to go off growling at the appearance of this woman, with her twopenny gentility. He went to sleep under Frederick Bullock’s bald head, after dinner, at one of the banker’s best parties (Fred was still anxious that the balance of the Osborne property should be transferred from Stumpy and Rowdy’s to them), and whilst Amelia, who did not know Latin, or who wrote the last crack article in the Edinburgh, and did not in the least deplore, or otherwise, Mr. Peel’s late extraordinary tergiversation on the fatal Catholic Relief Bill, sat dumb amongst the ladies in the grand drawing-room, looking out upon velvet lawns, trim gravel walks, and glistening hot-houses.
但总而言之，在对奥斯本先生去世的悲痛消退之前，艾美发现自己确实处于一个非常上流的圈子的中心，这个圈子的成员无法想象属于这个圈子的任何人都不是很幸运。几乎没有一位女士没有亲戚，尽管她的丈夫可能是城里的干盐商。有些女士非常忧郁，见多识广，读过《萨默维尔夫人》，经常光顾皇家学会。另一些是严肃的和福音派的，由埃克塞特大厅举行。必须承认的是，艾美发现自己在他们的争吵中完全不知所措，有一两次她不得不接受弗雷德里克·布洛克夫人的款待，她感到很痛苦。这位女士一直对她宠爱有加，并决心以最仁慈的态度来塑造她。她为阿米莉亚找到了女帽，并规范了她的家庭和举止。她经常从罗汉普顿开车过来，用淡淡的时尚小提琴和微弱的宫廷音乐来招待她的朋友。乔斯喜欢听，但少校常常因为这个女人的出现而咆哮，而她却表现出两分钱的绅士风度。晚饭后，在银行家最好的聚会之一上，他睡在弗雷德里克·布洛克的光头下（弗雷德仍然担心奥斯本财产的余额应该从斯坦皮和罗迪的手中转移到他们身上），而阿米莉亚则没有这样做。懂得拉丁语，或者在《爱丁堡》上写了最后一篇精彩文章的人，对皮尔先生最近对致命的天主教救济法案的非同寻常的恐惧一点也不感到遗憾，或者说，皮尔先生坐在大客厅里的女士们中间一言不发，眺望天鹅绒般的草坪、修剪整齐的砾石小道和闪闪发光的温室。

‘She seems good-natured but insipid,’ said Mrs. Rowdy; ‘that Major seems to be particularly epris.’
“她看起来脾气很好，但乏味，”罗迪太太说。 “那个少校看起来特别有毅力。”

‘She wants ton sadly,’ said Mrs. Hollyock. ‘My dear creature, you never will be able to form her.’
“她非常想要，”霍利奥克太太说。 “我亲爱的生物，你永远无法塑造她。”

‘She is dreadfully ignorant or indifferent,’ said Mrs. Glowry with a voice as if from the grave, and a sad shake of the head and turban. ‘I asked her if she thought that it was in 1836, according to Mr. Jowls, or in 1839, according to Mr. Wapshot, that the Pope was to fall: and she said—‘Poor Pope! I hope not—What has he done?’’
“她无知或冷漠得可怕，”格洛里夫人说道，声音仿佛来自坟墓，悲伤地摇着头和头巾。 “我问她，根据乔尔斯先生的说法，她是否认为教皇会在 1836 年垮台，或者根据瓦普肖特先生的说法，教皇会在 1839 年垮台：她说——‘可怜的教皇！我希望不会——他做了什么？”

‘She is my brother’s widow, my dear friends,’ Mrs. Frederick replied, ‘and as such I think we’re all bound to give her every attention and instruction on entering into the world. You may fancy there can be no MERCENARY motives in those whose DISAPPOINTMENTS are well known.’
“亲爱的朋友们，她是我兄弟的遗孀，”弗雷德里克夫人回答道，“因此，我认为我们都有义务在她进入这个世界时给予她一切关注和指导。”你可能认为，那些众所周知的失望情绪中不可能存在唯利是图的动机。

‘That poor dear Mrs. Bullock,’ said Rowdy to Hollyock, as they drove away together—‘she is always scheming and managing. She wants Mrs. Osborne’s account to be taken from our house to hers—and the way in which she coaxes that boy and makes him sit by that blear-eyed little Rosa is perfectly ridiculous.’
“那个可怜的、亲爱的布洛克太太，”当他们一起开车离开时，罗迪对霍利洛克说，“她总是有诡计和诡计。”她希望奥斯本夫人的账户从我们家转到她家，而她哄那个男孩并让他坐在那个眼神昏暗的小罗莎旁边的方式是完全荒谬的。

‘I wish Glowry was choked with her Man of Sin and her Battle of Armageddon,’ cried the other, and the carriage rolled away over Putney Bridge.
“我希望格洛里被她的罪恶之人和世界末日之战窒息，”另一个喊道，马车驶过普特尼桥。

But this sort of society was too cruelly genteel for Emmy, and all jumped for joy when a foreign tour was proposed.
但这种社会对艾美奖来说太残酷了，当有人提出出国巡演时，所有人都欢呼雀跃。

Chapter LXII
第六十二章


Am Rhein
莱茵河畔

The above everyday events had occurred, and a few weeks had passed, when on one fine morning, Parliament being over, the summer advanced, and all the good company in London about to quit that city for their annual tour in search of pleasure or health, the Batavier steamboat left the Tower-stairs laden with a goodly company of English fugitives. The quarter-deck awnings were up, and the benches and gangways crowded with scores of rosy children, bustling nursemaids; ladies in the prettiest pink bonnets and summer dresses; gentlemen in travelling caps and linen-jackets, whose mustachios had just begun to sprout for the ensuing tour; and stout trim old veterans with starched neckcloths and neat-brushed hats, such as have invaded Europe any time since the conclusion of the war, and carry the national Goddem into every city of the Continent. The congregation of hat-boxes, and Bramah desks, and dressing-cases was prodigious. There were jaunty young Cambridge-men travelling with their tutor, and going for a reading excursion to Nonnenwerth or Konigswinter; there were Irish gentlemen, with the most dashing whiskers and jewellery, talking about horses incessantly, and prodigiously polite to the young ladies on board, whom, on the contrary, the Cambridge lads and their pale-faced tutor avoided with maiden coyness; there were old Pall Mall loungers bound for Ems and Wiesbaden and a course of waters to clear off the dinners of the season, and a little roulette and trente-et-quarante to keep the excitement going; there was old Methuselah, who had married his young wife, with Captain Papillon of the Guards holding her parasol and guide-books; there was young May who was carrying off his bride on a pleasure tour (Mrs. Winter that was, and who had been at school with May’s grandmother); there was Sir John and my Lady with a dozen children, and corresponding nursemaids; and the great grandee Bareacres family that sat by themselves near the wheel, stared at everybody, and spoke to no one. Their carriages, emblazoned with coronets and heaped with shining imperials, were on the foredeck, locked in with a dozen more such vehicles: it was difficult to pass in and out amongst them; and the poor inmates of the fore-cabin had scarcely any space for locomotion. These consisted of a few magnificently attired gentlemen from Houndsditch, who brought their own provisions, and could have bought half the gay people in the grand saloon; a few honest fellows with mustachios and portfolios, who set to sketching before they had been half an hour on board; one or two French femmes de chambre who began to be dreadfully ill by the time the boat had passed Greenwich; a groom or two who lounged in the neighbourhood of the horse-boxes under their charge, or leaned over the side by the paddle-wheels, and talked about who was good for the Leger, and what they stood to win or lose for the Goodwood cup.
上述日常事件已经发生，几周过去了，在一个晴朗的早晨，议会结束了，夏天来临了，伦敦所有的好朋友都准备离开伦敦去参加一年一度的旅行，寻找快乐或健康离开塔楼梯时，巴塔维尔号汽船满载着一群英国逃犯。尾甲板的遮阳篷升起，长凳和舷梯上挤满了几十个脸色红润的孩子和忙碌的保姆。女士们戴着最漂亮的粉色帽子和夏装；戴着旅行帽、穿着亚麻夹克的绅士们，他们的小胡子刚刚开始为接下来的旅行而长出。还有身材魁梧、身材修长、戴着笔挺的领巾、戴着刷得一尘不染的帽子的退伍军人，就像战争结束以来任何时候入侵欧洲的人一样，把民族的上帝带到了欧洲大陆的每一个城市。帽子盒、布拉玛书桌和梳妆台的数量是惊人的。有一些活泼的剑桥年轻人和他们的导师一起旅行，去农南沃斯或柯尼希斯温特进行读书之旅。爱尔兰绅士们留着最潇洒的胡须，戴着珠宝，不停地谈论马，对船上的年轻女士们非常有礼貌，相反，剑桥的小伙子们和他们苍白的家庭教师却以少女般的害羞态度避开了她们。那里有开往埃姆斯和威斯巴登的老式蓓尔美尔躺椅，还有一排水域，可以用来清理当季的晚餐，还有一点轮盘赌和trente-et quarante，可以让兴奋继续下去；老玛土撒拉已经娶了年轻的妻子，侍卫队长帕皮龙拿着她的阳伞和旅游指南。年轻的梅正带着他的新娘去旅游（梅夫人）。 那是冬天，她和梅的祖母一起上学）；约翰爵士和夫人带着十几个孩子，还有相应的保姆。巴里亚克斯家族的大贵族独自坐在方向盘旁边，盯着所有人，谁也不说话。他们的马车装饰着皇冠，堆满了闪亮的帝王徽章，停在前甲板上，与十几辆这样的车辆锁在一起：在他们中间进出很困难；前舱里可怜的囚犯几乎没有任何活动空间。这些人由几位来自亨兹迪奇的衣冠楚楚的绅士组成，他们自带食物，可以买下大酒馆里一半的同性恋者。几个留着小胡子、拿着公文包的诚实小伙子，在上船半小时之前就开始画草图了；一两个法国女士在船经过格林威治时开始病得很重。一两个马夫在他们负责的马车附近闲逛，或者靠在明轮旁，谈论谁对莱杰有好处，以及他们对古德伍德的胜利或失败杯子。

All the couriers, when they had done plunging about the ship and had settled their various masters in the cabins or on the deck, congregated together and began to chatter and smoke; the Hebrew gentlemen joining them and looking at the carriages. There was Sir John’s great carriage that would hold thirteen people; my Lord Methuselah’s carriage, my Lord Bareacres’ chariot, britzska, and fourgon, that anybody might pay for who liked. It was a wonder how my Lord got the ready money to pay for the expenses of the journey. The Hebrew gentlemen knew how he got it. They knew what money his Lordship had in his pocket at that instant, and what interest he paid for it, and who gave it him. Finally there was a very neat, handsome travelling carriage, about which the gentlemen speculated.
所有的信使在船上跳来跳去，把各自的主人安顿在船舱或甲板上后，就聚集在一起，开始聊天，抽烟。希伯来绅士也加入了他们，看着马车。约翰爵士的大马车可容纳十三人。玛土撒拉勋爵的马车、巴里亚克斯勋爵的战车、britzska 和 fourgon，任何人都可以为喜欢的人付费。真奇怪我的主人是如何筹到足够的钱来支付旅途费用的。希伯来绅士们知道他是如何得到它的。他们知道此刻大人的口袋里有多少钱，他为此支付了多少利息，以及是谁给了他。最后出现了一辆非常整洁、漂亮的旅行马车，绅士们纷纷猜测。

‘A qui cette voiture la?’ said one gentleman-courier with a large morocco money-bag and ear-rings to another with ear-rings and a large morocco money-bag.
“A qui cette voiture la？”一位带着一个大摩洛哥钱袋和耳环的绅士快递员对另一位带着耳环和一个大摩洛哥钱袋的绅士说道。

‘C’est a Kirsch je bense—je l’ai vu toute a l’heure—qui brenoit des sangviches dans la voiture,’ said the courier in a fine German French.
“C'est a Kirsch je bense—je l'ai vu toute a l'heure—qui brenoit des sangviches dans la voiture，”信使用一口优美的德语法语说道。

Kirsch emerging presently from the neighbourhood of the hold, where he had been bellowing instructions intermingled with polyglot oaths to the ship’s men engaged in secreting the passengers’ luggage, came to give an account of himself to his brother interpreters. He informed them that the carriage belonged to a Nabob from Calcutta and Jamaica enormously rich, and with whom he was engaged to travel; and at this moment a young gentleman who had been warned off the bridge between the paddle-boxes, and who had dropped thence on to the roof of Lord Methuselah’s carriage, from which he made his way over other carriages and imperials until he had clambered on to his own, descended thence and through the window into the body of the carriage, to the applause of the couriers looking on.
基尔希刚刚从货舱附近出来，他一直在那里向从事秘密乘客行李的船上工作人员发出混杂着多种语言的誓言的指令，他过来向他的翻译兄弟介绍自己的情况。他告诉他们，这辆马车属于一位来自加尔各答和牙买加的大佬，他非常富有，他已约好和他一起旅行。就在这时，一位年轻的绅士被警告离开桨箱之间的桥，他从那里跳到了玛土撒拉勋爵的马车的车顶上，从那里他越过其他马车和帝国，直到他爬上他自己从那里下来，穿过窗户进入车厢，引起了旁观的信使的掌声。

‘Nous allons avoir une belle traversee, Monsieur George,’ said the courier with a grin, as he lifted his gold-laced cap.
“Nous allons avoir une beautiful traversee，乔治先生，”信使一边举起金边帽子，一边笑着说道。

‘D—your French,’ said the young gentleman, ‘where’s the biscuits, ay?’ Whereupon Kirsch answered him in the English language or in such an imitation of it as he could command—for though he was familiar with all languages, Mr. Kirsch was not acquainted with a single one, and spoke all with indifferent volubility and incorrectness.
“你的法语，”年轻的绅士说，“饼干在哪里？”于是基尔希用英语或者他能模仿的英语回答了他——因为尽管他熟悉所有的语言，先生基尔希一个人都不认识，说话时语气漠然，口齿不清，而且语无伦次。

The imperious young gentleman who gobbled the biscuits (and indeed it was time to refresh himself, for he had breakfasted at Richmond full three hours before) was our young friend George Osborne. Uncle Jos and his mamma were on the quarter-deck with a gentleman of whom they used to see a good deal, and the four were about to make a summer tour.
那个狼吞虎咽地吃着饼干的专横的年轻绅士（事实上，现在是时候让自己恢复精神了，因为他三个小时前在里士满吃过早餐）是我们年轻的朋友乔治·奥斯本。乔斯叔叔和他妈妈正和一位他们经常见面的绅士一起在尾甲板上，四人正准备进行一次夏季旅行。

Jos was seated at that moment on deck under the awning, and pretty nearly opposite to the Earl of Bareacres and his family, whose proceedings absorbed the Bengalee almost entirely. Both the noble couple looked rather younger than in the eventful year ‘15, when Jos remembered to have seen them at Brussels (indeed, he always gave out in India that he was intimately acquainted with them). Lady Bareacres’ hair, which was then dark, was now a beautiful golden auburn, whereas Lord Bareacres’ whiskers, formerly red, were at present of a rich black with purple and green reflections in the light. But changed as they were, the movements of the noble pair occupied Jos’s mind entirely. The presence of a Lord fascinated him, and he could look at nothing else.
乔斯此时坐在甲板上的遮阳篷下，几乎与巴里亚克斯伯爵和他的家人相对，他们的活动几乎完全吸引了孟加拉人。这对贵族夫妇看起来比 15 年多事之秋年轻得多，当时乔斯记得在布鲁塞尔见过他们（事实上，他在印度总是表现出他与他们非常熟悉）。巴里亚克斯夫人的头发当时是黑色的，现在变成了美丽的金赤褐色，而巴里亚克斯勋爵的胡须以前是红色的，现在是深黑色，在光线下反射出紫色和绿色的光芒。但虽然变了，贵族夫妇的动作却完全占据了乔斯的脑海。一位主的存在让他着迷，他无法再看其他任何东西。

‘Those people seem to interest you a good deal,’ said Dobbin, laughing and watching him. Amelia too laughed. She was in a straw bonnet with black ribbons, and otherwise dressed in mourning, but the little bustle and holiday of the journey pleased and excited her, and she looked particularly happy.
“你似乎对那些人很感兴趣，”多宾笑着看着他说道。阿米莉亚也笑了。她头戴一顶系着黑丝带的草帽，穿着丧服，但旅途中的小忙和假期却让她高兴又兴奋，显得特别高兴。

‘What a heavenly day!’ Emmy said and added, with great originality, ‘I hope we shall have a calm passage.’
“多么美好的一天啊！”艾美说，并极具创意地补充道，“我希望我们能度过一段平静的时光。”

Jos waved his hand, scornfully glancing at the same time under his eyelids at the great folks opposite. ‘If you had made the voyages we have,’ he said, ‘you wouldn’t much care about the weather.’ But nevertheless, traveller as he was, he passed the night direfully sick in his carriage, where his courier tended him with brandy-andwater and every luxury.
乔斯挥了挥手，同时眼皮底下轻蔑地扫了一眼对面的大人物。 “如果你完成了我们的航行，”他说，“你就不会太关心天气了。”尽管如此，尽管他是个旅行者，他还是在马车里度过了一个晚上，病得很重，他的信使在马车上照顾他白兰地和水以及各种奢侈品。

In due time this happy party landed at the quays of Rotterdam, whence they were transported by another steamer to the city of Cologne. Here the carriage and the family took to the shore, and Jos was not a little gratified to see his arrival announced in the Cologne newspapers as ‘Herr Graf Lord von Sedley nebst Begleitung aus London.’ He had his court dress with him; he had insisted that Dobbin should bring his regimental paraphernalia; he announced that it was his intention to be presented at some foreign courts, and pay his respects to the Sovereigns of the countries which he honoured with a visit.
在适当的时候，这群快乐的人降落在鹿特丹码头，从那里他们被另一艘轮船运到科隆市。在这里，马车和一家人上了岸，乔斯很高兴地看到科隆报纸上宣布他的到来，称他为“冯·塞德利勋爵阁下，来自伦敦”。他坚持要求多宾带上他的团用装备；他宣布他打算出席一些外国法庭，并向他有幸访问的国家的君主表示敬意。

Wherever the party stopped, and an opportunity was offered, Mr. Jos left his own card and the Major’s upon ‘Our Minister.’ It was with great difficulty that he could be restrained from putting on his cocked hat and tights to wait upon the English consul at the Free City of Judenstadt, when that hospitable functionary asked our travellers to dinner. He kept a journal of his voyage and noted elaborately the defects or excellences of the various inns at which he put up, and of the wines and dishes of which he partook.
无论聚会在哪里停下来，只要有机会，乔斯先生都会把他自己的名片和少校的名片留在“我们的部长”上。很难阻止他戴上三角帽和紧身衣去侍候英国人当那位热情好客的官员邀请我们的旅行者共进晚餐时，他记录了他的航行日记，并详细记录了他所住过的各个旅馆以及他所享用的葡萄酒和菜肴的缺点或优点。

As for Emmy, she was very happy and pleased. Dobbin used to carry about for her her stool and sketch-book, and admired the drawings of the good-natured little artist as they never had been admired before. She sat upon steamers’ decks and drew crags and castles, or she mounted upon donkeys and ascended to ancient robber-towers, attended by her two aides-de-camp, Georgy and Dobbin. She laughed, and the Major did too, at his droll figure on donkey-back, with his long legs touching the ground. He was the interpreter for the party; having a good military knowledge of the German language, and he and the delighted George fought the campaigns of the Rhine and the Palatinate. In the course of a few weeks, and by assiduously conversing with Herr Kirsch on the box of the carriage, Georgy made prodigious advance in the knowledge of High Dutch, and could talk to hotel waiters and postilions in a way that charmed his mother and amused his guardian.
至于艾美，她很高兴也很高兴。多宾常常随身携带她的凳子和素描本，欣赏这位善良小艺术家的画作，这是以前从未受到过的赞赏。她坐在轮船的甲板上画峭壁和城堡，或者骑着驴登上古老的强盗塔，由她的两名副官乔吉和多宾陪同。她笑了，少校也笑了，看着他骑在驴背上、长腿着地的滑稽身材。他是聚会的翻译；他具有良好的德语军事知识，他和高兴的乔治参加了莱茵河和普法尔茨战役。在几周的时间里，通过在车厢里与基尔希先生孜孜不倦地交谈，乔治在高地荷兰语知识方面取得了惊人的进步，并且可以用一种令他母亲着迷并逗乐的方式与酒店服务员和服务员交谈。他的监护人。

Mr. Jos did not much engage in the afternoon excursions of his fellow-travellers. He slept a good deal after dinner, or basked in the arbours of the pleasant inn-gardens. Pleasant Rhine gardens! Fair scenes of peace and sunshine—noble purple mountains, whose crests are reflected in the magnificent stream—who has ever seen you that has not a grateful memory of those scenes of friendly repose and beauty? To lay down the pen and even to think of that beautiful Rhineland makes one happy. At this time of summer evening, the cows are trooping down from the hills, lowing and with their bells tinkling, to the old town, with its old moats, and gates, and spires, and chestnut-trees, with long blue shadows stretching over the grass; the sky and the river below flame incrimson and gold; and the moon is already out, looking pale towards the sunset. The sun sinks behind the great castle-crested mountains, the night falls suddenly, the river grows darker and darker, lights quiver in it from the windows in the old ramparts, and twinkle peacefully in the villages under the hills on the opposite shore.
乔斯先生并没有过多参与其他旅行者下午的短途旅行。晚饭后他睡了很多觉，或者在宜人的旅馆花园的凉亭里晒太阳。宜人的莱茵花园！和平与阳光的美好景象——高贵的紫色山脉，其峰顶倒映在壮丽的溪流中——谁见过你不曾对那些友好宁静和美丽的场景怀有感激的记忆？放下笔，哪怕是想到那片美丽的莱茵兰，都会让人感到幸福。夏夜的这个时候，牛群从山上成群结队地走下来，哞哞地叫着，铃声叮当作响，来到老城，那里有古老的护城河、城门、尖塔和栗子树，长长的蓝色影子延伸到城里。草地;天空和下面的河流都被火焰染成了深红色和金色；月亮已经出来了，在夕阳下显得苍白。太阳落入城堡群山的背后，夜幕突然降临，河水越来越暗，灯光从古老城墙的窗户里射进来，在对岸山下的村庄里平静地闪烁。

So Jos used to go to sleep a good deal with his bandanna over his face and be very comfortable, and read all the English news, and every word of Galignani’s admirable newspaper (may the blessings of all Englishmen who have ever been abroad rest on the founders and proprietors of that piratical print! ) and whether he woke or slept, his friends did not very much miss him. Yes, they were very happy. They went to the opera often of evenings—to those snug, unassuming, dear old operas in the German towns, where the noblesse sits and cries, and knits stockings on the one side, over against the bourgeoisie on the other; and His Transparency the Duke and his Transparent family, all very fat and good-natured, come and occupy the great box in the middle; and the pit is full of the most elegant slim-waisted officers with straw-coloured mustachios, and twopence a day on full pay. Here it was that Emmy found her delight, and was introduced for the first time to the wonders of Mozart and Cimarosa. The Major’s musical taste has been before alluded to, and his performances on the flute commended. But perhaps the chief pleasure he had in these operas was in watching Emmy’s rapture while listening to them. A new world of love and beauty broke upon her when she was introduced to those divine compositions; this lady had the keenest and finest sensibility, and how could she be indifferent when she heard Mozart? The tender parts of ‘Don Juan’ awakened in her raptures so exquisite that she would ask herself when she went to say her prayers of a night whether it was not wicked to feel so much delight as that with which ‘Vedrai Carino’ and ‘Batti Batti’ filled her gentle little bosom? But the Major, whom she consulted upon this head, as her theological adviser (and who himself had a pious and reverent soul), said that for his part, every beauty of art or nature made him thankful as well as happy, and that the pleasure to be had in listening to fine music, as in looking at the stars in the sky, or at a beautiful landscape or picture, was a benefit for which we might thank Heaven as sincerely as for any other worldly blessing. And in reply to some faint objections of Mrs. Amelia’s (taken from certain theological works like the Washerwoman of Finchley Common and others of that school, with which Mrs. Osborne had been furnished during her life at Brompton) he told her an Eastern fable of the Owl who thought that the sunshine was unbearable for the eyes and that the Nightingale was a most overrated bird. ‘It is one’s nature to sing and the other’s to hoot,’ he said, laughing, ‘and with such a sweet voice as you have yourself, you must belong to the Bulbul faction.’
因此，乔斯常常用大手帕遮住脸去睡觉，非常舒服，并阅读所有的英文新闻，以及加里尼尼令人钦佩的报纸上的每一个字（愿所有出过国的英国人的祝福都寄托在他身上）。那张盗版印刷品的创始人和所有者！）无论他醒着还是睡着，他的朋友们都不太想念他。是的，他们非常高兴。他们经常在晚上去看歌剧院——去看德国城镇里那些舒适、朴素、可爱的老歌剧院，贵族们坐在那儿哭泣，一边织袜子，一边反对资产阶级；透明公爵和他的透明家人，都非常肥胖，脾气很好，来到中间的大包厢里。坑里挤满了最优雅的细腰军官，留着稻草色的小胡子，每天拿两便士的全薪。正是在这里，艾美找到了她的乐趣，并第一次了解到莫扎特和西马罗萨的奇迹。少校的音乐品味之前已被提及，他的长笛演奏也受到赞扬。但也许他在这些歌剧中的主要乐趣是在聆听时观看艾美的狂喜。当她接触到这些神圣的作品时，一个充满爱与美的新世界突然降临在她身上。这位女士的感受力是最敏锐、最细腻的，听到莫扎特的声音怎么会无动于衷呢？ “唐璜”的温柔部分在她的狂喜中苏醒，如此精致，以至于当她去祈祷时，她会问自己，感到像“维德拉·卡里诺”和“巴蒂”那样如此多的喜悦是不是邪恶的巴蒂充满了她温柔的小怀抱？ 但是，她在这个问题上向少校请教，作为她的神学顾问（他本人也有虔诚和敬畏的灵魂），他说，就他而言，艺术或自然的每一种美都让他感到感激和快乐，而且聆听优美的音乐、仰望天空中的星星、欣赏美丽的风景或图画所带来的快乐，是一种我们可以真诚地感谢上天的好处，就像感谢任何其他世俗的祝福一样。为了回应阿米莉亚夫人的一些微弱的反对意见（摘自某些神学著作，如《芬奇利公地的洗衣妇》和该学校的其他著作，奥斯本夫人在布朗普顿的时候就读过这些著作），他给她讲了一个东方寓言：猫头鹰认为阳光对眼睛来说难以忍受，而夜莺是一种被高估的鸟。 “人的天性是唱歌，人的天性是叫，”他笑道，“你的声音这么好听，一定是布尔布尔派的。”’

I like to dwell upon this period of her life and to think that she was cheerful and happy. You see, she has not had too much of that sort of existence as yet, and has not fallen in the way of means to educate her tastes or her intelligence. She has been domineered over hitherto by vulgar intellects. It is the lot of many a woman. And as every one of the dear sex is the rival of the rest of her kind, timidity passes for folly in their charitable judgments; and gentleness for dulness; and silence—which is but timid denial of the unwelcome assertion of ruling folks, and tacit protestantism— above all, finds no mercy at the hands of the female Inquisition. Thus, my dear and civilized reader, if you and I were to find ourselves this evening in a society of greengrocers, let us say, it is probable that our conversation would not be brilliant; if, on the other hand, a greengrocer should find himself at your refined and polite tea-table, where everybody was saying witty things, and everybody of fashion and repute tearing her friends to pieces in the most delightful manner, it is possible that the stranger would not be very talkative and by no means interesting or interested.
我喜欢回忆她生命中的这段时期，并认为她是开朗和幸福的。你看，她还没有经历太多这样的存在，也没有陷入培养她的品味或智力的方式。迄今为止，她一直受到庸俗知识分子的支配。这是许多女人的命运。由于每一位亲爱的性别都是其他同类的竞争对手，因此在他们仁慈的判断中，胆怯被视为愚蠢。以温柔代替迟钝；沉默——只不过是对统治者不受欢迎的主张的胆怯否认，以及默许的新教——最重要的是，在女性宗教裁判所手中毫不留情。因此，我亲爱的、文明的读者，如果你和我今晚发现自己置身于一个蔬菜水果商的社会里，那么我们的谈话很可能不会很精彩；另一方面，如果一个蔬菜水果商发现自己坐在你精致而有礼貌的茶几上，每个人都在说着俏皮话，每个时尚名流都以最令人愉快的方式将她的朋友撕成碎片，那么他很可能会陌生人不会很健谈，也不会很有趣或感兴趣。

And it must be remembered that this poor lady had never met a gentleman in her life until this present moment. Perhaps these are rarer personages than some of us think for. Which of us can point out many such in his circle—men whose aims are generous, whose truth is constant, and not only constant in its kind but elevated in its degree; whose want of meanness makes them simple; who can look the world honestly in the face with an equal manly sympathy for the great and the small? We all know a hundred whose coats are very well made, and a score who have excellent manners, and one or two happy beings who are what they call in the inner circles, and have shot into the very centre and bull’s-eye of the fashion; but of gentlemen how many? Let us take a little scrap of paper and each make out his list.
必须记住，直到此刻，这位可怜的女士一生中从未遇到过一位绅士。也许这些人物比我们一些人想象的要少。我们中谁能在他的圈子里指出许多这样的人——他们的目标是慷慨的，他们的真理是永恒的，不仅在其种类上是永恒的，而且在其程度上是崇高的；他们不卑鄙，所以他们很简单；谁能以同样男子气概的同情心诚实地面对这个世界，无论大小？我们都认识一百个人，他们的外套制作精良，二十个人举止得体，还有一两个幸福的人，他们被他们称为核心圈子，已经成为时尚的中心和靶心。 ;但先生们有多少呢？让我们拿一张小纸片，每个人列出自己的清单。

My friend the Major I write, without any doubt, in mine. He had very long legs, a yellow face, and a slight lisp, which at first was rather ridiculous. But his thoughts were just, his brains were fairly good, his life was honest and pure, and his heart warm and humble. He certainly had very large hands and feet, which the two George Osbornes used to caricature and laugh at; and their jeers and laughter perhaps led poor little Emmy astray as to his worth. But have we not all been misled about our heroes and changed our opinions a hundred times? Emmy, in this happy time, found that hers underwent a very great change in respect of the merits of the Major.
我的朋友少校，毫无疑问，是我写的。他的腿很长，脸色发黄，说话有点口齿不清，乍一看很可笑。但他的思想是正义的，他的脑子还算不错，他的生活是诚实纯洁的，他的心是温暖谦卑的。他的手和脚确实非常大，乔治·奥斯本夫妇曾用他的手和脚来讽刺和嘲笑他。他们的嘲笑和笑声也许让可怜的小艾美误入歧途，不知道自己的价值。但我们不是都被我们的英雄误导了，并且改变了一百次我们的观点吗？艾美在这幸福的时光里，发现自己在少校身上的优点发生了很大的变化。

Perhaps it was the happiest time of both their lives, indeed, if they did but know it—and who does? Which of us can point out and say that was the culmination—that was the summit of human joy? But at all events, this couple were very decently contented, and enjoyed as pleasant a summer tour as any pair that left England that year. Georgy was always present at the play, but it was the Major who put Emmy’s shawl on after the entertainment; and in the walks and excursions the young lad would be on ahead, and up a tower-stair or a tree, whilst the soberer couple were below, the Major smoking his cigar with great placidity and constancy, whilst Emmy sketched the site or the ruin. It was on this very tour that I, the present writer of a history of which every word is true, had the pleasure to see them first and to make their acquaintance.
事实上，如果他们知道这一点的话，也许这是他们一生中最幸福的时光——谁知道呢？我们谁能指出并说这是人类欢乐的顶峰？但无论如何，这对夫妇非常满足，并且像当年离开英格兰的任何一对一样享受了愉快的夏季旅行。乔治总是在场，但演出结束后是少校为艾美披上了披肩。在散步和远足时，年轻的小伙子会走在前面，爬上塔楼的楼梯或树，而清醒的夫妇则在下面，少校以极大的平静和坚定的态度抽着雪茄，而艾美则描绘了现场或废墟的草图。正是在这次旅行中，我，作为一部字字句句真实的历史的作者，有幸第一次见到他们并结识了他们。

It was at the little comfortable Ducal town of Pumpernickel (that very place where Sir Pitt Crawley had been so distinguished as an attache; but that was in early early days, and before the news of the Battle of Austerlitz sent all the English diplomatists in Germany to the right about) that I first saw Colonel Dobbin and his party. They had arrived with the carriage and courier at the Erbprinz Hotel, the best of the town, and the whole party dined at the table d’hote. Everybody remarked the majesty of Jos and the knowing way in which he sipped, or rather sucked, the Johannisberger, which he ordered for dinner. The little boy, too, we observed, had a famous appetite, and consumed schinken, and braten, and kartoffeln, and cranberry jam, and salad, and pudding, and roast fowls, and sweetmeats, with a gallantry that did honour to his nation. After about fifteen dishes, he concluded the repast with dessert, some of which he even carried out of doors, for some young gentlemen at table, amused with his coolness and gallant freeand-easy manner, induced him to pocket a handful of macaroons, which he discussed on his way to the theatre, whither everybody went in the cheery social little German place. The lady in black, the boy’s mamma, laughed and blushed, and looked exceedingly pleased and shy as the dinner went on, and at the various feats and instances of espieglerie on the part of her son. The Colonel—for so he became very soon afterwards—I remember joked the boy with a great deal of grave fun, pointing out dishes which he hadn’t tried, and entreating him not to baulk his appetite, but to have a second supply of this or that.
那是在舒适的公爵小镇普珀尼克尔（皮特·克劳利爵士曾作为武官如此杰出的地方）；但那是在早期，在奥斯特利茨战役的消息派出所有驻德国的英国外交官之前右边）我第一次看到多宾上校和他的一行人。他们乘坐马车和信使抵达了镇上最好的埃尔布普林茨酒店，一行人共进了套餐。每个人都称赞乔斯的威严，以及他啜饮或更确切地说吮吸他点的晚餐约翰尼斯伯格啤酒的熟练方式。我们观察到，这个小男孩也有一个著名的胃口，吃着辛肯、布雷顿、卡托芬、酸果蔓果酱、沙拉、布丁、烤禽和甜食，他的英勇行为为他的国家带来了荣耀。 。大约吃了十五道菜后，他以甜点结束了这顿饭，其中一些他甚至带出了门，餐桌上的一些年轻绅士被他的冷静和潇洒洒脱的态度逗乐了，引诱他塞了一把马卡龙到口袋里。他在去剧院的路上讨论了大家都去那里那个热闹的德国小社交场所。晚餐进行时，男孩的妈妈黑衣女士看着儿子的各种壮举和窥探事例，笑得脸红了，显得非常高兴和害羞。上校——因为他很快就变成了这样——我记得非常有趣地跟男孩开玩笑，指出他没有尝试过的菜肴，并恳求他不要阻止他的胃口，而是再吃第二份。这个或那个。

It was what they call a gast-rolle night at the Royal Grand Ducal Pumpernickelisch Hof—or Court theatre—and Madame Schroeder Devrient, then in the bloom of her beauty and genius, performed the part of the heroine in the wonderful opera of Fidelio. From our places in the stalls we could see our four friends of the table d’hote in the loge which Schwendler of the Erbprinz kept for his best guests, and I could not help remarking the effect which the magnificent actress and music produced upon Mrs. Osborne, for so we heard the stout gentleman in the mustachios call her. During the astonishing Chorus of the Prisoners, over which the delightful voice of the actress rose and soared in the most ravishing harmony, the English lady’s face wore such an expression of wonder and delight that it struck even little Fipps, the blase attache, who drawled out, as he fixed his glass upon her, ‘Gayd, it really does one good to see a woman caypable of that stayt of excaytement.’ And in the Prison Scene, where Fidelio, rushing to her husband, cries, ‘Nichts, nichts, mein Florestan,’ she fairly lost herself and covered her face with her handkerchief. Every woman in the house was snivelling at the time, but I suppose it was because it was predestined that I was to write this particular lady’s memoirs that I remarked her.
那是在皇家大公宫廷剧院（Royal Grand Ducal Pumpernickelisch Hof）（或宫廷剧院）度过的一个狂欢之夜，当时，施罗德·德夫里恩夫人（Madame Schroeder Devrient）在她的美丽和天才的绽放中，在精彩的歌剧《费德里奥》（Fidelio）中扮演了女主角。从我们在摊位上的座位上，我们可以看到埃尔布普林茨的施文德勒为他最好的客人保留的包厢里的四个餐桌朋友，我忍不住评论这位出色的女演员和音乐对夫人产生的影响。奥斯本，因为我们听到那位留着小胡子、身材魁梧的绅士这样称呼她。在令人惊叹的《囚徒合唱团》中，女演员令人愉悦的歌声在最迷人的和谐中升腾而起，英国女士的脸上露出了如此惊奇和喜悦的表情，甚至连冷漠随员的小菲普斯也感到震惊，他慢吞吞地拖着声音当他把望远镜对准她时，“盖德，看到一个女人能摆脱那种痛苦的感觉真是一件好事。”在监狱场景中，费德里奥冲向她的丈夫，哭喊着，“尼希特，尼希特” ，我的弗洛雷斯坦，”她完全迷失了自己，用手帕遮住了脸。当时家里的每个女人都在哭泣，但我想是因为命中注定我要写这位女士的回忆录，所以我才评论她。

The next day they gave another piece of Beethoven, Die Schlacht bei Vittoria. Malbrook is introduced at the beginning of the performance, as indicative of the brisk advance of the French army. Then come drums, trumpets, thunders of artillery, and groans of the dying, and at last, in a grand triumphal swell, ‘God Save the King’ is performed.
第二天，他们又演奏了贝多芬的另一首作品《维多利亚的施拉赫特》。演出一开始就介绍了马尔布鲁克，象征着法军的快速推进。然后是鼓声、号角、炮火的雷鸣和垂死者的呻吟，最后，在一场盛大的凯旋声中，“上帝保佑国王”奏响了。

There may have been a score of Englishmen in the house, but at the burst of that beloved and well-known music, every one of them, we young fellows in the stalls, Sir John and Lady Bullminster (who had taken a house at Pumpernickel for the education of their nine children), the fat gentleman with the mustachios, the long Major in white duck trousers, and the lady with the little boy upon whom he was so sweet, even Kirsch, the courier in the gallery, stood bolt upright in their places and proclaimed themselves to be members of the dear old British nation. As for Tapeworm, the Charge d’Affaires, he rose up in his box and bowed and simpered, as if he would represent the whole empire. Tapeworm was nephew and heir of old Marshal Tiptoff, who has been introduced in this story as General Tiptoff, just before Waterloo, who was Colonel of the —th regiment in which Major Dobbin served, and who died in this year full of honours, and of an aspic of plovers’ eggs; when the regiment was graciously given by his Majesty to Colonel Sir Michael O’Dowd, K.C.B. who had commanded it in many glorious fields.
房子里可能有二十个英国人，但是当那首受人喜爱和众所周知的音乐响起时，他们每个人，我们这些摊位上的年轻人，约翰爵士和布尔明斯特夫人（他们在普珀尼克尔买了一套房子） （为了他们九个孩子的教育），留着小胡子的胖绅士，穿着白色鸭子裤的长少校，还有他非常喜欢的带着小男孩的女士，就连画廊里的信使基尔希也站得笔直。取代了他们的位置，并宣称自己是亲爱的古老英国国家的成员。至于临时代办绦虫，他在包厢里站起来，鞠躬，傻笑着，仿佛他代表了整个帝国。绦虫是老元帅蒂普托夫的侄子和继承人，在这个故事中，蒂普托夫元帅在滑铁卢之前被介绍为蒂普托夫将军，他是多宾少校服役的第-军团的上校，今年光荣地去世了，鸻蛋冻；当国王陛下将这个团慷慨地授予迈克尔·奥多德上校爵士时，K.C.B.他曾在许多辉煌的领域指挥过它。

Tapeworm must have met with Colonel Dobbin at the house of the Colonel’s Colonel, the Marshal, for he recognized him on this night at the theatre, and with the utmost condescension, his Majesty’s minister came over from his own box and publicly shook hands with his new-found friend.
绦虫一定是在元帅上校的家里遇见了多宾上校，因为那天晚上在剧院，他认出了多宾上校，国王陛下的大臣极其居高临下地从自己的包厢里走出来，公开与他的上校握手。新认识的朋友。

‘Look at that infernal sly-boots of a Tapeworm,’ Fipps whispered, examining his chief from the stalls. ‘Wherever there’s a pretty woman he always twists himself in.’ And I wonder what were diplomatists made for but for that?
“看看绦虫那双地狱般的狡猾靴子，”菲普斯低声说道，在隔间里审视着他的酋长。 “只要有漂亮女人，他就总是把自己扭进去。”我想知道外交官不是为了这个而生的吗？

‘Have I the honour of addressing myself to Mrs. Dobbin?’ asked the Secretary with a most insinuating grin.
“我有幸向多宾夫人致意吗？”国务卿微笑着问道。

Georgy burst out laughing and said, ‘By Jove, that was a good ‘un.’ Emmy and the Major blushed: we saw them from the stalls.
乔吉突然大笑起来，说道：“天哪，这真是一个‘un’。”艾美和少校脸红了：我们在摊位上看到了他们。

‘This lady is Mrs. George Osborne,’ said the Major, ‘and this is her brother, Mr. Sedley, a distinguished officer of the Bengal Civil Service: permit me to introduce him to your lordship.’
“这位女士是乔治·奥斯本夫人，”少校说道，“这是她的兄弟塞德利先生，一位杰出的孟加拉公务员官员：请允许我把他介绍给阁下。”

My lord nearly sent Jos off his legs with the most fascinating smile. ‘Are you going to stop in Pumpernickel?’ he said. ‘It is a dull place, but we want some nice people, and we would try and make it SO agreeable to you. Mr.—Ahum—Mrs.—Oho. I shall do myself the honour of calling upon you to-morrow at your inn.’ And he went away with a Parthian grin and glance which he thought must finish Mrs. Osborne completely.
我的主人带着最迷人的微笑差点把乔斯从腿上摔下来。 “你要在粗麦镍酒停下来吗？”他说。 “这是一个沉闷的地方，但我们想要一些好人，我们会尽力让你感到如此愉快。先生——阿姆——太太——噢。我将很荣幸明天到您的旅馆拜访您。”他带着帕提亚人的笑容和一瞥离开了，他认为这一定会让奥斯本夫人彻底完蛋。

The performance over, the young fellows lounged about the lobbies, and we saw the society take its departure. The Duchess Dowager went off in her jingling old coach, attended by two faithful and withered old maids of honour, and a little snuffy spindle-shanked gentleman in waiting, in a brown jasey and a green coat covered with orders— of which the star and the grand yellow cordon of the order of St. Michael of Pumpernickel were most conspicuous. The drums rolled, the guards saluted, and the old carriage drove away.
演出结束后，年轻人在大厅里闲逛，我们看到社团渐渐离去。公爵夫人开着叮叮当当的旧马车出发了，侍候着两位忠实而枯萎的老宫女，还有一位身材矮小、身材瘦小、纺锤形绅士正在等候，他穿着棕色贾西服和绿色外套，上面写满了勋章——其中的星星和星号。最显眼的是圣米迦勒勋章的黄色警戒线。鼓声滚滚，侍卫行礼，古老的马车开走了。

Then came his Transparency the Duke and Transparent family, with his great officers of state and household. He bowed serenely to everybody. And amid the saluting of the guards and the flaring of the torches of the running footmen, clad in scarlet, the Transparent carriages drove away to the old Ducal schloss, with its towers and pinacles standing on the schlossberg. Everybody in Pumpernickel knew everybody. No sooner was a foreigner seen there than the Minister of Foreign Affairs, or some other great or small officer of state, went round to the Erbprinz and found out the name of the new arrival.
然后是他的透明公爵和透明家族，以及他的伟大的国家和家庭官员。他平静地向大家鞠了一躬。在卫兵的敬礼声和穿着猩红色衣服的奔跑的步兵的火把中，透明马车驶向古老的公爵城堡，城堡山上矗立着城堡的塔楼和尖塔。黑麦粉店里的每个人都认识每个人。一旦在那里看到外国人，外交部长或其他大大小小的国家官员就会绕到埃尔布普林茨，查出新来者的名字。

We watched them, too, out of the theatre. Tapeworm had just walked off, enveloped in his cloak, with which his gigantic chasseur was always in attendance, and looking as much as possible like Don Juan. The Prime Minister’s lady had just squeezed herself into her sedan, and her daughter, the charming Ida, had put on her calash and clogs; when the English party came out, the boy yawning drearily, the Major taking great pains in keeping the shawl over Mrs. Osborne’s head, and Mr. Sedley looking grand, with a crush opera-hat on one side of his head and his hand in the stomach of a voluminous white waistcoat. We took off our hats to our acquaintances of the table d’hote, and the lady, in return, presented us with a little smile and a curtsey, for which everybody might be thankful.
我们也在剧院外观看了他们的演出。绦虫刚刚走开，裹在他的斗篷里，他那巨大的猎手总是带着斗篷，看起来尽可能像唐璜。首相夫人刚刚挤进轿子，她的女儿，迷人的艾达，已经穿上了轿子和木屐。当英国人出来时，男孩沉闷地打着哈欠，少校煞费苦心地把围巾盖在奥斯本夫人的头上，塞德利先生看上去很威严，头的一侧戴着一顶歌剧帽，手伸进去。宽大的白色背心的肚子。我们向餐桌上的熟人脱帽致意，那位女士则向我们微笑并行屈膝礼作为回报，每个人都会对此表示感谢。

The carriage from the inn, under the superintendence of the bustling Mr. Kirsch, was in waiting to convey the party; but the fat man said he would walk and smoke his cigar on his way homewards, so the other three, with nods and smiles to us, went without Mr. Sedley, Kirsch, with the cigar case, following in his master’s wake.
客栈里的马车在忙碌的基尔希先生的指挥下，正等着接载一行人。但是胖子说他会在回家的路上抽着雪茄走，所以其他三个人向我们点头微笑，没有塞德利先生，基尔希带着雪茄盒，跟在他主人的后面。

We all walked together and talked to the stout gentleman about the agremens of the place. It was very agreeable for the English. There were shooting-parties and battues; there was a plenty of balls and entertainments at the hospitable Court; the society was generally good; the theatre excellent; and the living cheap.
我们一起走着，和那位粗壮的绅士谈论了这个地方的协议。这对于英国人来说是非常愉快的。有射击派对和射击派对；热情好客的宫廷里举办了很多舞会和娱乐活动。社会总体良好；剧院很棒；而且生活便宜。

‘And our Minister seems a most delightful and affable person,’ our new friend said. ‘With such a representative, and—and a good medical man, I can fancy the place to be most eligible. Good-night, gentlemen.’ And Jos creaked up the stairs to bedward, followed by Kirsch with a flambeau. We rather hoped that nice-looking woman would be induced to stay some time in the town.
“我们的部长看起来是一个非常令人愉快和和蔼可亲的人，”我们的新朋友说。 “有了这样的代表，还有——还有一位优秀的医生，我认为这个地方最合适。”晚安，先生们。”乔斯嘎吱嘎吱地走上楼梯，走向床上，基尔希拿着火炬跟在后面。我们宁愿希望那个漂亮的女人能被吸引到城里待一段时间。

Chapter LXIII
第六十三章


In Which We Meet an Old Acquaintance
我们遇见了一位老熟人

Such polite behaviour as that of Lord Tapeworm did not fail to have the most favourable effect upon Mr. Sedley’s mind, and the very next morning, at breakfast, he pronounced his opinion that Pumpernickel was the pleasantest little place of any which he had visited on their tour. Jos’s motives and artifices were not very difficult of comprehension, and Dobbin laughed in his sleeve, like a hypocrite as he was, when he found, by the knowing air of the civilian and the offhand manner in which the latter talked about Tapeworm Castle and the other members of the family, that Jos had been up already in the morning, consulting his travelling Peerage. Yes, he had seen the Right Honourable the Earl of Bagwig, his lordship’s father; he was sure he had, he had met him at—at the Levee—didn’t Dob remember? and when the Diplomatist called on the party, faithful to his promise, Jos received him with such a salute and honours as were seldom accorded to the little Envoy. He winked at Kirsch on his Excellency’s arrival, and that emissary, instructed before-hand, went out and superintended an entertainment of cold meats, jellies, and other delicacies, brought in upon trays, and of which Mr. Jos absolutely insisted that his noble guest should partake.
像绦虫勋爵这样有礼貌的行为，确实对塞德利先生产生了最有利的影响，第二天早上吃早饭时，他就表示，粗麦镍酒是他去过的所有小地方中最令人愉快的。他们的旅行。乔斯的动机和诡计并不难理解，多宾在袖子里笑了起来，当他发现这位平民善解人意的神态以及后者谈论绦虫城堡和家里的其他成员都知道，乔斯早上已经起床，正在咨询他的旅行贵族。是的，他见过巴格维格伯爵阁下，他是大人的父亲。他确信他见过，他在——大堤——见过他，多布不记得了吗？当外交官拜访大家时，乔斯恪守诺言，以很少给予这位小特使的敬意和荣誉接待了他。阁下到来时，他向基尔希使了个眼色，这位特使在事先得到指示后，出去主持了一场招待会，冷肉、果冻和其他美味佳肴都是用托盘送进来的，乔斯先生绝对坚持认为，他的贵族客人应参加。

Tapeworm, so long as he could have an opportunity of admiring the bright eyes of Mrs. Osborne (whose freshness of complexion bore daylight remarkably well) was not ill pleased to accept any invitation to stay in Mr. Sedley’s lodgings; he put one or two dexterous questions to him about India and the dancing-girls there; asked Amelia about that beautiful boy who had been with her; and complimented the astonished little woman upon the prodigious sensation which she had made in the house; and tried to fascinate Dobbin by talking of the late war and the exploits of the Pumpernickel contingent under the command of the Hereditary Prince, now Duke of Pumpernickel.
绦虫只要能有机会欣赏奥斯本夫人明亮的眼睛（她的肤色清新，能很好地适应日光），他就不会不高兴地接受住在塞德利先生住处的任何邀请。他向他提出了一两个关于印度和那里的舞女的巧妙问题。询问阿米莉亚关于那个和她在一起的漂亮男孩的事；并称赞这个惊讶的小女人在家里引起了巨大的轰动。并试图通过谈论最近的战争和由世袭王子（现为黑麦酒公爵）指挥的黑麦麦特遣队的功绩来吸引多宾。

Lord Tapeworm inherited no little portion of the family gallantry, and it was his happy belief that almost every woman upon whom he himself cast friendly eyes was in love with him. He left Emmy under the persuasion that she was slain by his wit and attractions and went home to his lodgings to write a pretty little note to her. She was not fascinated, only puzzled, by his grinning, his simpering, his scented cambric handkerchief, and his high-heeled lacquered boots. She did not understand one-half the compliments which he paid; she had never, in her small experience of mankind, met a professional ladies’ man as yet, and looked upon my lord as something curious rather than pleasant; and if she did not admire, certainly wondered at him. Jos, on the contrary, was delighted. ‘How very affable his Lordship is,’ he said; ‘How very kind of his Lordship to say he would send his medical man! Kirsch, you will carry our cards to the Count de Schlusselback directly; the Major and I will have the greatest pleasure in paying our respects at Court as soon as possible. Put out my uniform, Kirsch—both our uniforms. It is a mark of politeness which every English gentleman ought to show to the countries which he visits to pay his respects to the sovereigns of those countries as to the representatives of his own.’
绦虫勋爵继承了家族的不少英勇，他高兴地相信，几乎每一个他亲眼所见的女人都爱着他。他离开艾美时，说服她被他的智慧和魅力所杀死，然后回到自己的住处，给她写了一张漂亮的小纸条。她对他的笑容、他的傻笑、他的香味麻布手帕和他的高跟漆靴并不着迷，只是感到困惑。他所表达的赞美她有一半都听不懂；就她与人类的短暂接触而言，她还从未遇到过职业女装男士，因此对我的主人感到好奇，而不是令人愉快。如果她不钦佩他，肯定会对他感到好奇。相反，乔斯很高兴。 “陛下真是和蔼可亲啊，”他说。 “陛下说他会派他的医生来，真是太好了！”基尔希，你将把我们的名片直接交给施卢塞尔巴克伯爵；我和少校将非常高兴尽快到宫廷表达敬意。基尔希，把我的制服拿出来——我们俩的制服。这是每一位英国绅士都应该向他所访问的国家表现出礼貌的标志，向这些国家的主权者表示敬意，就像向自己的代表表示敬意一样。

When Tapeworm’s doctor came, Doctor von Glauber, Body Physician to H.S.H. the Duke, he speedily convinced Jos that the Pumpernickel mineral springs and the Doctor’s particular treatment would infallibly restore the Bengalee to youth and slimness. ‘Dere came here last year,’ he said, ‘Sheneral Bulkeley, an English Sheneral, tvice so pic as you, sir. I sent him back qvite tin after tree months, and he danced vid Baroness Glauber at the end of two.’
当绦虫的医生来时，冯格劳伯医生，H.S.H. 的身体医生。在公爵的帮助下，他很快就让乔斯相信，黑麦粉矿泉水和医生的特殊治疗一定能让孟加拉人恢复年轻和苗条。 “德雷去年来过这里，”他说，“谢纳尔·布尔克利，一位英国谢纳尔，长官，他和你一样漂亮。”三个月后我把他送了回来，两个月后他就和格劳伯男爵夫人一起跳舞了。

Jos’s mind was made up; the springs, the Doctor, the Court, and the Charge d’Affaires convinced him, and he proposed to spend the autumn in these delightful quarters. And punctual to his word, on the next day the Charge d’Affaires presented Jos and the Major to Victor Aurelius XVII, being conducted to their audience with that sovereign by the Count de Schlusselback, Marshal of the Court.
乔斯已经下定决心了；泉水、医生、法院和代办说服了他，他提议在这些令人愉快的地方度过秋天。第二天，临时代办按照诺言将何塞和少校介绍给了维克托·奥勒留十七世，由宫廷元帅施卢塞尔巴克伯爵带领他们会见了这位君主。

They were straightway invited to dinner at Court, and their intention of staying in the town being announced, the politest ladies of the whole town instantly called upon Mrs. Osborne; and as not one of these, however poor they might be, was under the rank of a Baroness, Jos’s delight was beyond expression. He wrote off to Chutney at the Club to say that the Service was highly appreciated in Germany, that he was going to show his friend, the Count de Schlusselback, how to stick a pig in the Indian fashion, and that his august friends, the Duke and Duchess, were everything that was kind and civil.
他们立即被邀请去宫廷吃晚饭，并且宣布了他们留在镇上的意图，全镇最有礼貌的女士立即拜访了奥斯本夫人。由于这些人中没有一个人是男爵夫人级别的，无论他们多么贫穷，乔斯的高兴之情难以言喻。他写信给俱乐部的酸辣酱说，这项服务在德国受到高度赞赏，他将向他的朋友施卢塞尔巴克伯爵展示如何用印度的方式粘猪，他的威严的朋友，公爵和公爵夫人，都是善良和文明的人。

Emmy, too, was presented to the august family, and as mourning is not admitted in Court on certain days, she appeared in a pink crape dress with a diamond ornament in the corsage, presented to her by her brother, and she looked so pretty in this costume that the Duke and Court (putting out of the question the Major, who had scarcely ever seen her before in an evening dress, and vowed that she did not look five-and-twenty) all admired her excessively.
艾美也被介绍给了这个庄严的家庭，由于某些日子法庭上不承认哀悼，她穿着一件粉红色的绉纱连衣裙，胸花上有钻石装饰，这是她哥哥送给她的，她看起来很漂亮穿着这套服装，公爵和宫廷（更不用说少校了，他以前几乎从未见过她穿晚礼服，发誓她看起来不像五岁和二十岁）都非常欣赏她。

In this dress she walked a Polonaise with Major Dobbin at a Court ball, in which easy dance Mr. Jos had the honour of leading out the Countess of Schlusselback, an old lady with a hump back, but with sixteen good quarters of nobility and related to half the royal houses of Germany.
穿着这件衣服，她在宫廷舞会上与多宾少校一起跳波兰兹舞，在这场轻松的舞会上，乔斯先生有幸领出了施卢塞尔巴克伯爵夫人，她是一位驼背的老太太，但有着十六个优秀的贵族和亲戚德国一半的王室。

Pumpernickel stands in the midst of a happy valley through which sparkles—to mingle with the Rhine somewhere, but I have not the map at hand to say exactly at what point—the fertilizing stream of the Pump. In some places the river is big enough to support a ferryboat, in others to turn a mill; in Pumpernickel itself, the last Transparency but three, the great and renowned Victor Aurelius XIV built a magnificent bridge, on which his own statue rises, surrounded by water-nymphs and emblems of victory, peace, and plenty; he has his foot on the neck of a prostrate Turk—history says he engaged and ran a Janissary through the body at the relief of Vienna by Sobieski—but, quite undisturbed by the agonies of that prostrate Mahometan, who writhes at his feet in the most ghastly manner, the Prince smiles blandly and points with his truncheon in the direction of the Aurelius Platz, where he began to erect a new palace that would have been the wonder of his age had the greatsouled Prince but had funds to complete it. But the completion of Monplaisir (Monblaisir the honest German folks call it) was stopped for lack of ready money, and it and its park and garden are now in rather a faded condition, and not more than ten times big enough to accommodate the Court of the reigning Sovereign.
普珀尼克尔矗立在欢乐谷的中央，山谷中波光粼粼——与莱茵河在某处交汇，但我手头没有地图，无法准确说明在哪一点——泵的施肥溪流。在一些地方，河流大到足以支撑一艘渡船，在另一些地方，河流足以转动一座磨坊；在裸麦镍克尔本身，最后一个透明国家，仅三个，伟大而著名的维克多·奥勒留十四世建造了一座宏伟的桥梁，桥上矗立着他自己的雕像，周围环绕着水仙女和胜利、和平和富足的象征。他的脚踩在了一名倒下的土耳其人的脖子上——历史称，索别斯基在维也纳解救时，他与一名禁卫军交战并穿过了他的身体——但是，他对那个倒在他脚下的穆斯林的痛苦完全不为所动。王子以最可怕的方式温和地微笑着，用警棍指向奥勒留广场的方向，在那里他开始建造一座新宫殿，如果这位伟大的王子有足够的资金来完成它，这将是他那个时代的奇迹。但蒙普莱西尔（Monplaisir，诚实的德国人称之为蒙布莱西尔）的建设因缺乏现成资金而停止，它及其公园和花园现在处于相当褪色的状态，大小不超过十倍，不足以容纳法院。现任君主。

The gardens were arranged to emulate those of Versailles, and amidst the terraces and groves there are some huge allegorical waterworks still, which spout and froth stupendously upon fete-days, and frighten one with their enormous aquatic insurrections. There is the Trophonius’ cave in which, by some artifice, the leaden Tritons are made not only to spout water, but to play the most dreadful groans out of their lead conchs—there is the nymphbath and the Niagara cataract, which the people of the neighbourhood admire beyond expression, when they come to the yearly fair at the opening of the Chamber, or to the fetes with which the happy little nation still celebrates the birthdays and marriage-days of its princely governors.
花园的布置模仿了凡尔赛宫的花园，在露台和树林中，仍然有一些巨大的寓言式水厂，在节日期间会喷出惊人的泡沫，并以其巨大的水生暴动吓坏人们。在特罗弗尼乌斯 (Trophonius) 的洞穴里，通过某种诡计，铅制的特里同不仅能喷出水，还能用铅海螺发出最可怕的呻吟声——那里有仙女浴和尼亚加拉大瀑布，这里的人们当邻居们来到议会开幕时参加一年一度的集市时，或者参加这个幸福的小国家仍然庆祝其王子总督的生日和结婚日的节日时，他们都会赞叹不已。

Then from all the towns of the Duchy, which stretches for nearly ten mile—from Bolkum, which lies on its western frontier bidding defiance to Prussia, from Grogwitz, where the Prince has a huntinglodge, and where his dominions are separated by the Pump River from those of the neighbouring Prince of Potzenthal; from all the little villages, which besides these three great cities, dot over the happy principality—from the farms and the mills along the Pump come troops of people in red petticoats and velvet head-dresses, or with three-cornered hats and pipes in their mouths, who flock to the Residenz and share in the pleasures of the fair and the festivities there. Then the theatre is open for nothing, then the waters of Monblaisir begin to play (it is lucky that there is company to behold them, for one would be afraid to see them alone)—then there come mountebanks and riding troops (the way in which his Transparency was fascinated by one of the horse-riders is well known, and it is believed that La Petite Vivandiere, as she was called, was a spy in the French interest), and the delighted people are permitted to march through room after room of the Grand Ducal palace and admire the slippery floor, the rich hangings, and the spittoons at the doors of all the innumerable chambers. There is one Pavilion at Monblaisir which Aurelius Victor XV had arranged—a great Prince but too fond of pleasure—and which I am told is a perfect wonder of licentious elegance. It is painted with the story of Bacchus and Ariadne, and the table works in and out of the room by means of a windlass, so that the company was served without any intervention of domestics. But the place was shut up by Barbara, Aurelius XV’s widow, a severe and devout Princess of the House of Bolkum and Regent of the Duchy during her son’s glorious minority, and after the death of her husband, cut off in the pride of his pleasures.
然后从绵延近十英里的公国的所有城镇出发——从位于其西部边境的博尔库姆，对普鲁士发起挑战，从格格维茨，王子在那里有一个狩猎小屋，他的领地被泵河隔开。来自邻近的波曾塔尔亲王的那些；除了这三个伟大的城市之外，所有的小村庄都散布在幸福的公国上空——从水泵沿线的农场和磨坊里，一群群穿着红色衬裙、戴着天鹅绒头饰、或者戴着三角帽、拿着烟斗的人涌来。他们涌向王宫，分享集市和庆祝活动的乐趣。然后剧院就免费开放了，然后蒙布莱西尔的水开始上演（幸运的是，有人陪伴观看他们，因为人们害怕单独看到他们）——然后是江湖骗子和骑兵（进入的方式）众所周知，他的透明对其中一名骑马者着迷，据信，她被称为“小维凡迪埃”，是法国利益的间谍），高兴的人们被允许在之后穿过房间参观大公宫殿的房间，欣赏湿滑的地板、华丽的帷幔以及无数房间门口的痰盂。蒙布莱西尔有一座亭子，是奥勒留·维克多十五世（Aurelius Victor XV）布置的——一位伟大的王子，但太喜欢享乐——据我所知，这是放荡优雅的完美奇迹。上面画着酒神巴克斯和阿里阿德涅的故事，桌子通过卷扬机在房间里进出，这样就可以在没有佣人干预的情况下为客人提供服务。 但这个地方被奥勒留十五世的遗孀芭芭拉封锁了，芭芭拉是一位严肃而虔诚的博尔库姆家族的公主，也是她儿子光荣的未成年时期的公国摄政王，在她丈夫去世后，她与他的享乐骄傲隔绝了。 。

The theatre of Pumpernickel is known and famous in that quarter of Germany. It languished a little when the present Duke in his youth insisted upon having his own operas played there, and it is said one day, in a fury, from his place in the orchestra, when he attended a rehearsal, broke a bassoon on the head of the Chapel Master, who was conducting, and led too slow; and during which time the Duchess Sophia wrote domestic comedies, which must have been very dreary to witness. But the Prince executes his music in private now, and the Duchess only gives away her plays to the foreigners of distinction who visit her kind little Court.
裸麦黑剧院 (Pumpernickel) 在德国那个地区很有名。当现在的公爵年轻时坚持要在那里演奏他自己的歌剧时，它变得有些衰弱，据说有一天，他在管弦乐队中参加排练时，一怒之下，打碎了一根巴松管的头部教堂主人正在指挥，但指挥得太慢了；在此期间，索菲亚公爵夫人创作了家庭喜剧，观看起来一定非常沉闷。但王子现在私下演奏他的音乐，而公爵夫人只把她的演奏送给参观她善良的小宫廷的有名望的外国人。

It is conducted with no small comfort and splendour. When there are balls, though there may be four hundred people at supper, there is a servant in scarlet and lace to attend upon every four, and every one is served on silver. There are festivals and entertainments going continually on, and the Duke has his chamberlains and equerries, and the Duchess her mistress of the wardrobe and ladies of honour, just like any other and more potent potentates.
它是在不小的舒适和辉煌中进行的。举办舞会时，尽管晚餐时可能有四百人，但每四个人都会有一名穿着猩红色和蕾丝花边的仆人参加，并且为每个人提供银器。节日和娱乐活动不断进行，公爵有他的侍从和侍从，公爵夫人有她的女主人和贵妇，就像任何其他更有权力的君主一样。

The Constitution is or was a moderate despotism, tempered by a Chamber that might or might not be elected. I never certainly could hear of its sitting in my time at Pumpernickel. The Prime Minister had lodgings in a second floor, and the Foreign Secretary occupied the comfortable lodgings over Zwieback’s Conditorey. The army consisted of a magnificent band that also did duty on the stage, where it was quite pleasant to see the worthy fellows marching in Turkish dresses with rouge on and wooden scimitars, or as Roman warriors with ophicleides and trombones—to see them again, I say, at night, after one had listened to them all the morning in the Aurelius Platz, where they performed opposite the cafe where we breakfasted. Besides the band, there was a rich and numerous staff of officers, and, I believe, a few men. Besides the regular sentries, three or four men, habited as hussars, used to do duty at the Palace, but I never saw them on horseback, and au fait, what was the use of cavalry in a time of profound peace?—and whither the deuce should the hussars ride?
宪法现在是或曾经是温和的专制主义，受到可能会也可能不会选举产生的众议院的调节。我在裸麦黑面包店的时候从来没有听说过它。总理的住所位于二楼，外交大臣则住在茨维巴克监狱上方舒适的住所。这支军队由一支雄伟的乐队组成，他们也在舞台上履行职责，在那里看到这些可敬的家伙穿着土耳其服装、涂着胭脂、手持木弯刀行进，或者像罗马战士一样拿着奥菲克莱德斯和长号——再次看到他们，真是令人愉快。我是说，在晚上，人们在奥勒留广场听了他们一上午的演出，他们在我们吃早餐的咖啡馆对面表演。除了乐队之外，还有大量的军官，我相信还有一些男人。除了正规的哨兵之外，三四个人，习惯于骠骑兵，曾经在宫殿里执行任务，但我从未见过他们骑在马背上，事实上，在太平的时代，骑兵有什么用呢？骠骑兵应该骑什么？

Everybody—everybody that was noble of course, for as for the bourgeois we could not quite be expected to take notice of THEM— visited his neighbour. H. E. Madame de Burst received once a week, H. E. Madame de Schnurrbart had her night—the theatre was open twice a week, the Court graciously received once, so that a man’s life might in fact be a perfect round of pleasure in the unpretending Pumpernickel way.
每个人——当然是每个贵族，因为至于资产阶级，我们不能完全指望他们注意到他们——拜访他的邻居。德·布斯特夫人阁下每周接待一次，德·施努尔巴特夫人阁下则度过了她的夜晚——剧院每周开放两次，宫廷慷慨地接待一次，这样一个人的生活实际上可能以朴实无华的粗麦镍酒方式成为一场完美的快乐。

That there were feuds in the place, no one can deny. Politics ran very high at Pumpernickel, and parties were very bitter. There was the Strumpff faction and the Lederlung party, the one supported by our envoy and the other by the French Charge d’Affaires, M. de Macabau. Indeed it sufficed for our Minister to stand up for Madame Strumpff, who was clearly the greater singer of the two, and had three more notes in her voice than Madame Lederlung her rival—it sufficed, I say, for our Minister to advance any opinion to have it instantly contradicted by the French diplomatist.
没有人可以否认，这个地方曾经存在过争斗。粗麦镍酒的政治气氛非常浓厚，聚会气氛也非常激烈。有斯特朗普夫派和莱德隆派，一个得到了我们特使的支持，另一个得到了法国临时代办德马卡巴先生的支持。事实上，我们的部长支持斯特朗普夫夫人就足够了，她显然是两人中更出色的歌手，她的声音比她的竞争对手莱德隆夫人多了三个音符——我说，我们的部长提出任何意见就足够了立即遭到法国外交官的反驳。

Everybody in the town was ranged in one or other of these factions. The Lederlung was a prettyish little creature certainly, and her voice (what there was of it) was very sweet, and there is no doubt that the Strumpff was not in her first youth and beauty, and certainly too stout; when she came on in the last scene of the Sonnambula, for instance, in her night-chemise with a lamp in her hand, and had to go out of the window, and pass over the plank of the mill, it was all she could do to squeeze out of the window, and the plank used to bend and creak again under her weight—but how she poured out the finale of the opera! and with what a burst of feeling she rushed into Elvino’s arms—almost fit to smother him! Whereas the little Lederlung—but a truce to this gossip—the fact is that these two women were the two flags of the French and the English party at Pumpernickel, and the society was divided in its allegiance to those two great nations.
镇上的每个人都属于这些派系之一。莱德隆确实是一个漂亮的小生物，她的声音（它的声音）非常甜美，毫无疑问，斯特朗普夫不再是她最初的青春和美丽，而且肯定太粗壮了；例如，当她在《桑南布拉》的最后一幕中出场时，她穿着睡衣，手里拿着一盏灯，不得不走出窗外，越过磨坊的木板，这是她所能做的一切。挤出窗外，木板在她的重量下常常再次弯曲并嘎吱作响——但她如何倾诉出歌剧的结局！她怀着一种多么强烈的感觉冲进了埃尔维诺的怀里——几乎要窒息他了！而小莱德隆——不过是对这种流言蜚语的休战——事实是，这两个女人是裸麦尼克尔法国和英国政党的两面旗帜，而社会在效忠这两个伟大国家的问题上存在分歧。

We had on our side the Home Minister, the Master of the Horse, the Duke’s Private Secretary, and the Prince’s Tutor; whereas of the French party were the Foreign Minister, the Commander-in-Chief’s Lady, who had served under Napoleon, and the Hof-Marschall and his wife, who was glad enough to get the fashions from Pans, and always had them and her caps by M. de Macabau’s courier. The Secretary of his Chancery was little Grignac, a young fellow, as malicious as Satan, and who made caricatures of Tapeworm in all the-albums of the place.
我们这边有内政大臣、马主、公爵的私人秘书和王子的家庭教师；而法国一方则有外交部长、曾在拿破仑手下服役的总司令夫人，以及侯爵夫人和他的妻子，他们很高兴能从潘斯那里得到时装，并且总是拥有他们和她的妻子。由 M. de Macabau 的信使提供的帽子。他的办公厅秘书是小格里尼亚克，一个年轻人，像撒旦一样恶毒，他在当地所有的相册中都画了绦虫的漫画。

Their headquarters and table d’hote were established at the Pariser Hof, the other inn of the town; and though, of course, these gentlemen were obliged to be civil in public, yet they cut at each other with epigrams that were as sharp as razors, as I have seen a couple of wrestlers in Devonshire, lashing at each other’s shins and never showing their agony upon a muscle of their faces. Neither Tapeworm nor Macabau ever sent home a dispatch to his government without a most savage series of attacks upon his rival. For instance, on our side we would write, ‘The interests of Great Britain in this place, and throughout the whole of Germany, are perilled by the continuance in office of the present French envoy; this man is of a character so infamous that he will stick at no falsehood, or hesitate at no crime, to attain his ends. He poisons the mind of the Court against the English minister, represents the conduct of Great Britain in the most odious and atrocious light, and is unhappily backed by a minister whose ignorance and necessities are as notorious as his influence is fatal.’ On their side they would say, ‘M. de Tapeworm continues his system of stupid insular arrogance and vulgar falsehood against the greatest nation in the world. Yesterday he was heard to speak lightly of Her Royal Highness Madame the Duchess of Berri; on a former occasion he insulted the heroic Duke of Angouleme and dared to insinuate that H.R.H. the Duke of Orleans was conspiring against the august throne of the lilies. His gold is prodigated in every direction which his stupid menaces fail to frighten. By one and the other, he has won over creatures of the Court here—and, in fine, Pumpernickel will not be quiet, Germany tranquil, France respected, or Europe content until this poisonous viper be crushed under heel”: and so on. When one side or the other had written any particularly spicy dispatch, news of it was sure to slip out.
他们的总部和套餐设在镇上的另一家旅馆 Pariser Hof。当然，尽管这些先生们在公共场合必须保持文明，但他们却用像剃刀一样锋利的警句互相攻击，就像我在德文郡见过的几个摔跤手，互相猛击对方的小腿，却从不表现出来。他们脸上肌肉的痛苦。无论是绦虫还是马卡鲍，在向政府发出电报时，都对他的对手进行了一系列最野蛮的攻击。例如，我们这边会写道：“英国在这个地方以及整个德国的利益，因现任法国特使的继续任职而受到威胁；这个人的品格如此臭名昭著，为了达到他的目的，他会不惜一切谎言，不惜任何犯罪。他毒害了法院的思想，反对英国大臣，以最可恶和残暴的方式代表了英国的行为，而且不幸的是，他得到了一位大臣的支持，这位大臣的无知和必要性与他的影响力是致命的一样臭名昭著。他们会说，‘M.德绦虫继续他针对世界上最伟大的国家的愚蠢的、孤立的傲慢和粗俗的谎言。昨天，有人听到他轻蔑地谈论贝里公爵夫人殿下；有一次，他侮辱了英勇的昂古莱姆公爵，并敢于暗示殿下。奥尔良公爵正在密谋反对百合花的威严王位。他的黄金被挥霍到他愚蠢的威胁无法吓倒的各个方向。 通过这一点，他赢得了这里宫廷的生物——总而言之，在这条毒蛇被踩在脚下之前，黑麦粉不会安静，德国不会平静，法国不会受到尊重，欧洲也不会满足”：等等。当一方写出任何特别辛辣的快报时，消息肯定会泄露出去。

Before the winter was far advanced, it is actually on record that Emmy took a night and received company with great propriety and modesty. She had a French master, who complimented her upon the purity of her accent and her facility of learning; the fact is she had learned long ago and grounded herself subsequently in the grammar so as to be able to teach it to George; and Madam Strumpff came to give her lessons in singing, which she performed so well and with such a true voice that the Major’s windows, who had lodgings opposite under the Prime Minister, were always open to hear the lesson. Some of the German ladies, who are very sentimental and simple in their tastes, fell in love with her and began to call her du at once. These are trivial details, but they relate to happy times. The Major made himself George’s tutor and read Caesar and mathematics with him, and they had a German master and rode out of evenings by the side of Emmy’s carriage—she was always too timid, and made a dreadful outcry at the slightest disturbance on horseback. So she drove about with one of her dear German friends, and Jos asleep on the back-seat of the barouche.
事实上，在冬天还没有到来之前，艾美就以非常礼节和谦虚的方式度过了一个夜晚并接受了陪伴。她有一位法语老师，老师称赞她口音纯正，学习能力强。事实上，她很早以前就已经学会了，并随后在语法上打下了坚实的基础，以便能够教给乔治。斯特朗普夫夫人来给她上歌唱课，她唱得那么好，声音那么真实，以至于住在首相楼下的少校的窗户总是开着的，可以听课。一些多愁善感、口味单纯的德国女士爱上了她，立刻开始叫她“du”。这些都是琐碎的细节，但却关系到幸福的时光。少校自己当了乔治的家庭教师，和他一起读《凯撒大帝》和数学，他们还有一位德国老师，晚上就在艾美的马车旁边骑马——她总是太胆怯了，马背上稍有骚动就会发出可怕的叫喊声。于是她和一位亲爱的德国朋友开车兜风，乔斯在四轮马车的后座上睡着了。

He was becoming very sweet upon the Grafinn Fanny de Butterbrod, a very gentle tender-hearted and unassuming young creature, a Canoness and Countess in her own right, but with scarcely ten pounds per year to her fortune, and Fanny for her part declared that to be Amelia’s sister was the greatest delight that Heaven could bestow on her, and Jos might have put a Countess’s shield and coronet by the side of his own arms on his carriage and forks; when—when events occurred, and those grand fetes given upon the marriage of the Hereditary Prince of Pumpernickel with the lovely Princess Amelia of HumbourgSchlippenschloppen took place.
他对格拉芬·范妮·德·巴特布罗德（Grafinn Fanny de Butterbrod）非常感兴趣，她是一个非常温柔、心地善良、谦逊的年轻人，本身就是一位教士和伯爵夫人，但每年的财产只有不到十英镑，而范妮则宣称：成为阿米莉亚的妹妹是上天赐予她的最大的快乐，乔斯可能会在他的马车和叉子上把伯爵夫人的盾牌和王冠戴在自己的手臂旁边；但他的手上却挂着伯爵夫人的盾牌和王冠。当——当事件发生时，那些为粗麦黑尔世袭王子与可爱的洪堡施利彭施洛彭的阿米莉亚公主结婚而举行的盛大庆典发生了。

At this festival the magnificence displayed was such as had not been known in the little German place since the days of the prodigal Victor XIV. All the neighbouring Princes, Princesses, and Grandees were invited to the feast. Beds rose to half a crown per night in Pumpernickel, and the Army was exhausted in providing guards of honour for the Highnesses, Serenities, and Excellencies who arrived from all quarters. The Princess was married by proxy, at her father’s residence, by the Count de Schlusselback. Snuff-boxes were given away in profusion (as we learned from the Court jeweller, who sold and afterwards bought them again), and bushels of the Order of Saint Michael of Pumpernickel were sent to the nobles of the Court, while hampers of the cordons and decorations of the Wheel of St. Catherine of Schlippenschloppen were brought to ours. The French envoy got both. ‘He is covered with ribbons like a prize carthorse,’ Tapeworm said, who was not allowed by the rules of his service to take any decorations: ‘Let him have the cordons; but with whom is the victory?’ The fact is, it was a triumph of British diplomacy, the French party having proposed and tried their utmost to carry a marriage with a Princess of the House of PotztausendDonnerwetter, whom, as a matter of course, we opposed.
自浪子维克多十四世时代以来，在这个德国小地方，这个节日所展现出的辉煌是从未有过的。所有邻近的王子、公主和达官贵人都被邀请参加宴会。普珀尼克尔的床位涨到了每晚半克朗，陆军在为从四面八方赶来的殿下、殿下和阁下提供仪仗队方面已经精疲力竭。公主在她父亲的住所由施卢塞尔巴克伯爵代理结婚。鼻烟盒被大量赠送（正如我们从宫廷珠宝商那里了解到的那样，他们卖了然后又买了它们），一蒲式耳的圣米迦勒勋章被送给宫廷贵族，而警戒线礼篮则被送去。施利彭施洛彭圣凯瑟琳之轮的装饰品也被带到了我们这里。法国特使两者都得到了。 “他身上挂满了丝带，就像获奖的马车一样，”绦虫说，根据他的服务规则，他不允许获得任何勋章：“让他拥有警戒线；事实是，这是英国外交的胜利，法国一方提议并竭尽全力与波茨陶森德唐纳韦特家族的一位公主结婚，而她理所当然地是我们反对。

Everybody was asked to the fetes of the marriage. Garlands and triumphal arches were hung across the road to welcome the young bride. The great Saint Michael’s Fountain ran with uncommonly sour wine, while that in the Artillery Place frothed with beer. The great waters played; and poles were put up in the park and gardens for the happy peasantry, which they might climb at their leisure, carrying off watches, silver forks, prize sausages hung with pink ribbon, &c., at the top. Georgy got one, wrenching it off, having swarmed up the pole to the delight of the spectators, and sliding down with the rapidity of a fall of water. But it was for the glory’s sake merely. The boy gave the sausage to a peasant, who had very nearly seized it, and stood at the foot of the mast, blubbering, because he was unsuccessful.
每个人都被邀请参加婚礼。马路对面悬挂着花环和凯旋门，欢迎年轻的新娘。伟大的圣迈克尔喷泉流淌着异常酸的酒，而炮兵广场的喷泉则流淌着啤酒泡沫。大海在嬉戏；公园和花园里为快乐的农民竖起了杆子，他们可以在闲暇时爬上杆子，带走顶部的手表、银叉子、挂着粉红丝带的奖品香肠等等。乔吉抓住了一根，把它扭下来，在观众们的欢呼声中一拥而上，然后以瀑布般的速度滑落。但这只是为了荣耀。男孩把香肠交给了一位农民，他差点就抓住了它，他站在桅杆底下哭了起来，因为他没有成功。

At the French Chancellerie they had six more lampions in their illumination than ours had; but our transparency, which represented the young Couple advancing and Discord flying away, with the most ludicrous likeness to the French Ambassador, beat the French picture hollow; and I have no doubt got Tapeworm the advancement and the Cross of the Bath which he subsequently attained.
在法国总理府，他们的照明灯比我们多了六盏。但我们的透明度，代表年轻夫妇前进，无序飞走，与法国大使最可笑的相似，使法国的形象空洞；我毫不怀疑他获得了绦虫的晋升和巴斯十字勋章。

Crowds of foreigners arrived for the fetes, and of English, of course. Besides the Court balls, public balls were given at the Town Hall and the Redoute, and in the former place there was a room for trente-et-quarante and roulette established, for the week of the festivities only, and by one of the great German companies from Ems or Aix-la-Chapelle. The officers or inhabitants of the town were not allowed to play at these games, but strangers, peasants, ladies were admitted, and any one who chose to lose or win money.
成群结队的外国人前来参加庆祝活动，当然还有英国人。除了宫廷舞会之外，市政厅和 Redoute 还举办了公共舞会，在前一个地方还专门设立了一个房间，用于举办 trente-et-quarante 和轮盘赌，仅在庆祝活动的一周内进行，由一位伟大的来自埃姆斯或艾克斯拉夏贝尔的德国公司。镇上的官员或居民不允许参加这些游戏，但陌生人、农民、女士以及任何选择输钱或赢钱的人都可以参加。

That little scapegrace Georgy Osborne amongst others, whose pockets were always full of dollars and whose relations were away at the grand festival of the Court, came to the Stadthaus Ball in company of his uncle’s courier, Mr. Kirsch, and having only peeped into a play-room at Baden-Baden when he hung on Dobbin’s arm, and where, of course, he was not permitted to gamble, came eagerly to this part of the entertainment and hankered round the tables where the croupiers and the punters were at work. Women were playing; they were masked, some of them; this license was allowed in these wild times of carnival.
那个小人物乔治·奥斯本（Georgy Osborne）和其他人一样，口袋里总是装满了美元，而且他的亲戚们都在参加宫廷的盛大节日，他在他叔叔的信使基尔希先生的陪伴下来到了市政厅舞会，只看了一眼当他挂在多宾的手臂上时，他在巴登巴登的游戏室里，当然，那里不允许他赌博，但他热切地来到了这部分娱乐场所，渴望在荷官和赌客工作的桌子周围。女人在玩耍；他们中有些人戴着面具；在狂欢节的狂野时期，这种许可是被允许的。

A woman with light hair, in a low dress by no means so fresh as it had been, and with a black mask on, through the eyelets of which her eyes twinkled strangely, was seated at one of the roulette-tables with a card and a pin and a couple of florins before her. As the croupier called out the colour and number, she pricked on the card with great care and regularity, and only ventured her money on the colours after the red or black had come up a certain number of times. It was strange to look at her.
一个浅色头发的女人坐在一张轮盘赌桌旁，她穿着一件低矮的连衣裙，一点也不像以前那么新鲜了，戴着黑色面具，透过孔眼，她的眼睛闪烁着奇怪的光芒。她面前有一枚别针和几弗罗林。当荷官喊出颜色和数字时，她非常小心且有规律地在卡片上刺痛，只有在红色或黑色出现一定次数后才将钱冒险到颜色上。看着她很奇怪。

But in spite of her care and assiduity she guessed wrong and the last two florins followed each other under the croupier’s rake, as he cried out with his inexorable voice the winning colour and number. She gave a sigh, a shrug with her shoulders, which were already too much out of her gown, and dashing the pin through the card on to the table, sat thrumming it for a while. Then she looked round her and saw Georgy’s honest face staring at the scene. The little scamp! What business had he to be there?
但尽管她很小心、很勤奋，她还是猜错了，最后两枚弗罗林在荷官的耙子下相继落下，荷官用他无情的声音喊出了获胜的颜色和号码。她叹了口气，耸了耸肩，肩膀已经脱离了她的礼服，然后把别针穿过卡片扔到桌子上，坐在那里把它敲了一会儿。然后她环顾四周，看到乔吉那张诚实的脸正盯着这一幕。小流氓！他去那儿有什么事吗？

When she saw the boy, at whose face she looked hard through her shining eyes and mask, she said, ‘Monsieur n’est pas joueur?’
当她看到那个男孩时，她透过闪亮的眼睛和面具仔细地看着他的脸，她说：“先生不是现在了吗？”

‘Non, Madame,’ said the boy; but she must have known, from his accent, of what country he was, for she answered him with a slight foreign tone. ‘You have nevare played—will you do me a littl’ favor?’
“不，夫人，”男孩说。但她一定从他的口音中知道他是哪个国家的人，因为她用一种轻微的外国语气回答他。 “你从来没有玩过——你能帮我一个忙吗？”

‘What is it?’ said Georgy, blushing again. Mr. Kirsch was at work for his part at the rouge et noir and did not see his young master.
“什么事？”乔吉问道，脸又红了。基尔希先生正在《红与黑》中为自己的角色工作，没有见到他的少爷。

‘Play this for me, if you please; put it on any number, any number.’ And she took from her bosom a purse, and out of it a gold piece, the only coin there, and she put it into George’s hand. The boy laughed and did as he was bid.
“如果你愿意的话，给我播放一下这个；把它放在任何数字上，任何数字上。”然后她从怀里掏出一个钱包，从里面取出一枚金币，这是那里唯一的硬币，然后她把它放在乔治的手里。男孩笑了，按照他的吩咐做了。

The number came up sure enough. There is a power that arranges that, they say, for beginners.
数字果然出现了。他们说，有一种力量可以为初学者安排这一点。

‘Thank you,’ said she, pulling the money towards her, ‘thank you. What is your name?’
“谢谢你，”她边说边把钱拉到自己面前，“谢谢你。”你叫什么名字？'

‘My name’s Osborne,’ said Georgy, and was fingering in his own pockets for dollars, and just about to make a trial, when the Major, in his uniform, and Jos, en Marquis, from the Court ball, made their appearance. Other people, finding the entertainment stupid and preferring the fun at the Stadthaus, had quitted the Palace ball earlier; but it is probable the Major and Jos had gone home and found the boy’s absence, for the former instantly went up to him and, taking him by the shoulder, pulled him briskly back from the place of temptation. Then, looking round the room, he saw Kirsch employed as we have said, and going up to him, asked how he dared to bring Mr. George to such a place.
“我叫奥斯本，”乔吉一边说，一边在自己的口袋里掏钱，正要进行审判，这时穿着制服的少校和侯爵乔斯从宫廷舞会上出现了。其他人则觉得这种娱乐活动很愚蠢，更喜欢在市政厅享受乐趣，因此提前退出了宫殿舞会。但少校和乔斯很可能回家后发现男孩不见了，因为前者立即走到他身边，抓住他的肩膀，把他从受诱惑的地方轻快地拉了回来。然后，环视房间，他看到基尔希像我们所说的那样受雇，于是走到他面前，问他怎么敢把乔治先生带到这样的地方。

‘Laissez-moi tranquille,’ said Mr. Kirsch, very much excited by play and wine. ‘ll faut s’amuser, parbleu. Je ne suis pas au service de Monsieur.’
“自由自在，”基尔希先生说，他对玩耍和美酒感到非常兴奋。 'll faut s'amuser, parbleu。 Je ne suis pas au service de Monsieur.’

Seeing his condition the Major did not choose to argue with the man, but contented himself with drawing away George and asking Jos if he would come away. He was standing close by the lady in the mask, who was playing with pretty good luck now, and looking on much interested at the game.
看到他的情况，少校没有选择与那个人争论，而是满足于拉开乔治并询问乔斯是否愿意离开。他就站在戴着面具的女士身边，她现在玩得运气不错，看上去对比赛很感兴趣。

‘Hadn’t you better come, Jos,’ the Major said, ‘with George and me?’
“乔斯，你最好和乔治和我一起来吗？”少校说。

‘I’ll stop and go home with that rascal, Kirsch,’ Jos said; and for the same reason of modesty, which he thought ought to be preserved before the boy, Dobbin did not care to remonstrate with Jos, but left him and walked home with Georgy.
“我会停下来，和那个流氓基尔希一起回家，”乔斯说。出于同样的原因，多宾认为在男孩面前应该保持谦虚，他也懒得去劝告乔斯，而是离开了他，和乔吉一起走回家。

‘Did you play?’ asked the Major when they were out and on their way home.
“你们玩了吗？”当他们外出回家时，少校问道。

The boy said ‘No.’
男孩说：“不。”

‘Give me your word of honour as a gentleman that you never will.’
“以绅士的身份向我保证，你永远不会这样做。”

‘Why?’ said the boy; ‘it seems very good fun.’ And, in a very eloquent and impressive manner, the Major showed him why he shouldn’t, and would have enforced his precepts by the example of Georgy’s own father, had he liked to say anything that should reflect on the other’s memory. When he had housed him, he went to bed and saw his light, in the little room outside of Amelia’s, presently disappear. Amelia’s followed half an hour afterwards. I don’t know what made the Major note it so accurately.
“为什么？”男孩问道。 “这看起来很有趣。”而且，少校以一种非​​常雄辩和令人印象深刻的方式向他展示了为什么他不应该这样做，并且如果他想说任何应该说的话，他会以乔治自己父亲的例子来执行他的戒律。反思对方的记忆。当他安置好他后，他上床睡觉，看到阿米莉亚外面小房间里的灯很快就消失了。半小时后，阿米莉亚也跟着来了。我不知道是什么让少校记得如此准确。

Jos, however, remained behind over the play-table; he was no gambler, but not averse to the little excitement of the sport now and then, and he had some Napoleons chinking in the embroidered pockets of his court waistcoat. He put down one over the fair shoulder of the little gambler before him, and they won. She made a little movement to make room for him by her side, and just took the skirt of her gown from a vacant chair there.
然而，乔斯在比赛桌上仍然落后。他不是赌徒，但并不反对这项运动时不时带来的小刺激，他的宫廷背心的绣花口袋里有一些拿破仑的钱。他在面前的小赌徒白皙的肩膀上放下了一颗，他们赢了。她稍微做了个动作，为身旁的他腾出了位置，然后从那里的空椅子上拿起了礼服的裙摆。

‘Come and give me good luck,’ she said, still in a foreign accent, quite different from that frank and perfectly English ‘Thank you,’ with which she had saluted Georgy’s coup in her favour. The portly gentleman, looking round to see that nobody of rank observed him, sat down; he muttered—‘Ah, really, well now, God bless my soul. I’m very fortunate; I’m sure to give you good fortune,’ and other words of compliment and confusion. ‘Do you play much?’ the foreign mask said.
“来吧，祝我好运，”她说，仍然带着外国口音，这与她向乔吉对她有利的政变表示敬意时说的坦率而完美的英语“谢谢”截然不同。这位肥胖的绅士环顾四周，发现没有一个有地位的人注意到他，就坐下了。他嘀咕道：“啊，真的，现在好了，上帝保佑我的灵魂。”我很幸运；我一定会给你好运的，”以及其他一些赞美和困惑的话。 “你玩得多吗？”外国面具问道。

‘I put a Nap or two down,’ said Jos with a superb air, flinging down a gold piece.
“我打了一两个小盹，”乔斯神气十足地说，扔下了一枚金币。

‘Yes; ay nap after dinner,’ said the mask archly. But Jos looking frightened, she continued, in her pretty French accent, ‘You do not play to win. No more do I. I play to forget, but I cannot. I cannot forget old times, monsieur. Your little nephew is the image of his father; and you—you are not changed—but yes, you are. Everybody changes, everybody forgets; nobody has any heart.’
'是的;晚饭后小憩一下吧。”面具狡猾地说。但乔斯看起来很害怕，她用漂亮的法国口音继续说道，“你打牌不是为了赢。”我不再这样做了。我玩游戏是为了忘记，但我不能。我无法忘记过去的时光，先生。你的小侄子就是他父亲的翻版；而你——你没有改变——但是，是的，你改变了。每个人都会改变，每个人都会忘记；没有人有心。

‘Good God, who is it?’ asked Jos in a flutter.
“天啊，这是谁？”乔斯慌乱地问道。

‘Can’t you guess, Joseph Sedley?’ said the little woman in a sad voice, and undoing her mask, she looked at him. ‘You have forgotten me.’
“约瑟夫·塞德利，你猜不出来吗？”小个子女人用悲伤的声音说道，然后解开面具，看着他。 “你已经忘记我了。”

‘Good heavens! Mrs. Crawley!’ gasped out Jos.
'我的妈呀！克劳利夫人！”乔斯气喘吁吁地说。

‘Rebecca,’ said the other, putting her hand on his; but she followed the game still, all the time she was looking at him.
“丽贝卡，”另一个说，把她的手放在他的手上。但她仍然关注着比赛，一直看着他。

‘I am stopping at the Elephant,’ she continued. ‘Ask for Madame de Raudon. I saw my dear Amelia to-day; how pretty she looked, and how happy! So do you! Everybody but me, who am wretched, Joseph Sedley.’ And she put her money over from the red to the black, as if by a chance movement of her hand, and while she was wiping her eyes with a pocket-handkerchief fringed with torn lace.
“我正停在大象那里，”她继续说道。 “去找德·拉东夫人。”今天我见到了我亲爱的阿米莉亚；她看起来多么漂亮，多么幸福！你也是！除了我，约瑟夫·塞德利，每个人都是可怜的。”她把钱从红色变成了黑色，就好像她的手偶然一动一样，同时她用一块流苏破烂的小手帕擦眼睛。蕾丝。

The red came up again, and she lost the whole of that stake. ‘Come away,’ she said. ‘Come with me a little—we are old friends, are we not, dear Mr. Sedley?’
红色再次出现，她输掉了全部赌注。 “走开，”她说。 “跟我来一会儿吧——我们是老朋友了，不是吗，亲爱的塞德利先生？”

And Mr. Kirsch having lost all his money by this time, followed his master out into the moonlight, where the illuminations were winking out and the transparency over our mission was scarcely visible.
基尔希先生此时已经输光了所有的钱，跟着他的主人来到了月光下，那里的灯光正在闪烁，我们的任务的透明度几乎看不见。

Chapter LXIV
第六十四章


A Vagabond Chapter
流浪者之章

We must pass over a part of Mrs. Rebecca Crawley’s biography with that lightness and delicacy which the world demands—the moral world, that has, perhaps, no particular objection to vice, but an insuperable repugnance to hearing vice called by its proper name. There are things we do and know perfectly well in Vanity Fair, though we never speak of them: as the Ahrimanians worship the devil, but don’t mention him: and a polite public will no more bear to read an authentic description of vice than a truly refined English or American female will permit the word breeches to be pronounced in her chaste hearing. And yet, madam, both are walking the world before our faces every day, without much shocking us. If you were to blush every time they went by, what complexions you would have! It is only when their naughty names are called out that your modesty has any occasion to show alarm or sense of outrage, and it has been the wish of the present writer, all through this story, deferentially to submit to the fashion at present prevailing, and only to hint at the existence of wickedness in a light, easy, and agreeable manner, so that nobody’s fine feelings may be offended. I defy any one to say that our Becky, who has certainly some vices, has not been presented to the public in a perfectly genteel and inoffensive manner. In describing this Siren, singing and smiling, coaxing and cajoling, the author, with modest pride, asks his readers all round, has he once forgotten the laws of politeness, and showed the monster’s hideous tail above water? No! Those who like may peep down under waves that are pretty transparent and see it writhing and twirling, diabolically hideous and slimy, flapping amongst bones, or curling round corpses; but above the waterline, I ask, has not everything been proper, agreeable, and decorous, and has any the most squeamish immoralist in Vanity Fair a right to cry fie? When, however, the Siren disappears and dives below, down among the dead men, the water of course grows turbid over her, and it is labour lost to look into it ever so curiously. They look pretty enough when they sit upon a rock, twanging their harps and combing their hair, and sing, and beckon to you to come and hold the looking-glass; but when they sink into their native element, depend on it, those mermaids are about no good, and we had best not examine the fiendish marine cannibals, revelling and feasting on their wretched pickled victims. And so, when Becky is out of the way, be sure that she is not particularly well employed, and that the less that is said about her doings is in fact the better.
我们必须以世界所要求的轻松和精致的方式略过丽贝卡·克劳利夫人传记的一部分——道德世界，也许并没有特别反对罪恶，但对听到罪恶的正确名称有一种不可克服的反感。有些事情我们在《名利场》中做过并且非常清楚，尽管我们从不谈论它们：正如阿里曼派崇拜魔鬼，但不提及他一样：有礼貌的公众不会比阅读真实的罪恶描述更愿意阅读。一个真正优雅的英国或美国女性会允许在她贞洁的听力中发音“马裤”这个词。然而，女士，两人每天都在我们面前走来走去，并没有给我们带来太大的震惊。如果每次他们经过你都脸红的话，那该是什么脸色啊！只有当他们顽皮的名字被叫出来时，你的谦虚才有机会表现出惊慌或愤怒的感觉，而在整个故事中，作者的愿望就是恭敬地服从当前流行的时尚，只是以轻松、轻松、愉快的方式暗示邪恶的存在，以免冒犯任何人的美好感情。我不认为有人会说我们的贝基确实有一些恶习，但她并没有以一种完全优雅且无攻击性的方式呈现在公众面前。作者在描述这个歌声、微笑、哄骗的海妖时，怀着谦虚的自豪感问四面八方的读者，他是否曾经忘记了礼貌法则，将怪物那狰狞的尾巴露出在水面上？不！ 那些喜欢的人可能会在相当透明的波浪下窥视，看到它在扭动和旋转，邪恶地丑陋和粘稠，在骨头中拍打，或者卷曲在尸体上；但在水线以上，我问，难道一切不是都得体、令人愉快、高雅吗？《名利场》中最神经质的不道德主义者有权利哭吗？然而，当海妖消失并潜入下方，潜入死者之中时，她上方的水当然变得浑浊，如此好奇地观察它是浪费力气的。当它们坐在岩石上，弹奏竖琴，梳理头发，唱歌，招呼你过来拿着镜子时，它们看起来就足够漂亮了；但当它们融入到它们的原生环境中时，依靠它，那些美人鱼几乎没有什么好处，我们最好不要检查那些邪恶的海洋食人者，他们正在狂欢和享用他们可怜的腌制受害者。因此，当贝基不碍事时，请确保她的工作不是特别好，而且实际上对她的行为说得越少越好。

If we were to give a full account of her proceedings during a couple of years that followed after the Curzon Street catastrophe, there might be some reason for people to say this book was improper. The actions of very vain, heartless, pleasure-seeking people are very often improper (as are many of yours, my friend with the grave face and spotless reputation—but that is merely by the way); and what are those of a woman without faith—or love—or character? And I am inclined to think that there was a period in Mrs Becky’s life when she was seized, not by remorse, but by a kind of despair, and absolutely neglected her person and did not even care for her reputation.
如果我们要全面描述她在寇松街灾难之后的几年里的经历，人们可能有理由说这本书不合适。虚荣、无情、贪图享乐的人的行为往往是不恰当的（就像你们中的许多人一样，我的朋友，面容严肃，名誉一尘不染——但这只是顺便说一句）；一个没有信仰、没有爱、没有品格的女人会是什么样子呢？我倾向于认为，贝基夫人一生中有一段时间，她不是被悔恨所占据，而是被一种绝望所占据，完全忽视了自己的个人，甚至不关心自己的名誉。

This abattement and degradation did not take place all at once; it was brought about by degrees, after her calamity, and after many struggles to keep up—as a man who goes overboard hangs on to a spar whilst any hope is left, and then flings it away and goes down, when he finds that struggling is in vain.
这种减弱和退化并不是同时发生的；它是在她遭遇灾难之后，经过多次挣扎才逐渐实现的——就像一个落水的人，在还剩下一丝希望的时候，抓住一根桅杆，然后把它扔掉，沉下去，当他发现自己正在挣扎时。是徒劳的。

She lingered about London whilst her husband was making preparations for his departure to his seat of government, and it is believed made more than one attempt to see her brother-in-law, Sir Pitt Crawley, and to work upon his feelings, which she had almost enlisted in her favour. As Sir Pitt and Mr. Wenham were walking down to the House of Commons, the latter spied Mrs. Rawdon in a black veil, and lurking near the palace of the legislature. She sneaked away when her eyes met those of Wenham, and indeed never succeeded in her designs upon the Baronet.
当她的丈夫正在为前往政府所在地做准备时，她在伦敦徘徊，据信她不止一次尝试去见她的姐夫皮特·克劳利爵士，并努力照顾他的感受，差一点就获得了她的青睐。当皮特爵士和文纳姆先生走向下议院时，后者发现戴着黑色面纱的罗登夫人正潜伏在立法机关的宫殿附近。当她的目光与韦纳姆的目光相遇时，她就偷偷溜走了，事实上，她对从男爵的阴谋从未成功。

Probably Lady Jane interposed. I have heard that she quite astonished her husband by the spirit which she exhibited in this quarrel, and her determination to disown Mrs. Becky. Of her own movement, she invited Rawdon to come and stop in Gaunt Street until his departure for Coventry Island, knowing that with him for a guard Mrs. Becky would not try to force her door; and she looked curiously at the superscriptions of all the letters which arrived for Sir Pitt, lest he and his sister-in-law should be corresponding. Not but that Rebecca could have written had she a mind, but she did not try to see or to write to Pitt at his own house, and after one or two attempts consented to his demand that the correspondence regarding her conjugal differences should be carried on by lawyers only.
可能是简夫人插话了。我听说她在这场争吵中所表现出的精神以及她与贝基夫人断绝关系的决心让她的丈夫感到非常惊讶。她自己的举动邀请罗登来冈特街停留，直到他出发前往考文垂岛，因为她知道有他作为警卫，贝基夫人不会试图强行闯入她的门；她好奇地看着皮特爵士收到的所有信件的编号，以免他和他的嫂子通信。丽贝卡本来可以写信给她，但她并没有尝试去皮特自己的家里看望他，也没有给他写信，经过一两次尝试后，她同意了他的要求，继续就她的婚姻差异进行通信。仅由律师。

The fact was that Pitt’s mind had been poisoned against her. A short time after Lord Steyne’s accident Wenham had been with the Baronet and given him such a biography of Mrs. Becky as had astonished the member for Queen’s Crawley. He knew everything regarding her: who her father was; in what year her mother danced at the opera; what had been her previous history; and what her conduct during her married life—as I have no doubt that the greater part of the story was false and dictated by interested malevolence, it shall not be repeated here. But Becky was left with a sad sad reputation in the esteem of a country gentleman and relative who had been once rather partial to her.
事实上，皮特的思想已经对她下了毒。斯泰因勋爵出事后不久，温汉姆就和男爵在一起了，给了他一本贝基夫人的传记，这让女王克劳利的成员感到惊讶。他知道关于她的一切：她的父亲是谁；她的父亲是谁；哪一年她母亲在歌剧院跳舞；她以前的经历是什么？以及她在婚姻生活中的行为——因为我毫不怀疑这个故事的大部分内容都是虚假的，并且是出于利益相关的恶意，所以这里不再重复。但贝基在一位曾对她颇为偏爱的乡村绅士和亲戚的尊敬中却留下了可悲的名声。

The revenues of the Governor of Coventry Island are not large. A part of them were set aside by his Excellency for the payment of certain outstanding debts and liabilities, the charges incident on his high situation required considerable expense; finally, it was found that he could not spare to his wife more than three hundred pounds a year, which he proposed to pay to her on an undertaking that she would never trouble him. Otherwise, scandal, separation, Doctors’ Commons would ensue. But it was Mr. Wenham’s business, Lord Steyne’s business, Rawdon’s, everybody’s—to get her out of the country, and hush up a most disagreeable affair.
考文垂岛总督的收入并不多。其中一部分是陛下拨出的，用于偿还某些未偿还的债务和负债，由于他的地位很高，这些费用需要相当大的开支；最后，人们发现他每年无法为妻子节省三百多英镑，他提议将这笔钱付给她，并保证她永远不会麻烦他。否则，丑闻、分居、医生共享就会接踵而至。但这是文纳姆先生的事，斯泰因勋爵的事，罗登的事，每个人的事——让她离开这个国家，并掩盖这件最不愉快的事情。

She was probably so much occupied in arranging these affairs of business with her husband’s lawyers that she forgot to take any step whatever about her son, the little Rawdon, and did not even once propose to go and see him. That young gentleman was consigned to the entire guardianship of his aunt and uncle, the former of whom had always possessed a great share of the child’s affection. His mamma wrote him a neat letter from Boulogne, when she quitted England, in which she requested him to mind his book, and said she was going to take a Continental tour, during which she would have the pleasure of writing to him again. But she never did for a year afterwards, and not, indeed, until Sir Pitt’s only boy, always sickly, died of hooping-cough and measles—then Rawdon’s mamma wrote the most affectionate composition to her darling son, who was made heir of Queen’s Crawley by this accident, and drawn more closely than ever to the kind lady, whose tender heart had already adopted him. Rawdon Crawley, then grown a tall, fine lad, blushed when he got the letter. ‘Oh, Aunt Jane, you are my mother!’ he said; ‘and not—and not that one.’ But he wrote back a kind and respectful letter to Mrs. Rebecca, then living at a boarding-house at Florence. But we are advancing matters.
她可能太忙于与她丈夫的律师安排这些事务，以至于忘记了对她的儿子小罗登采取任何措施，甚至一次都没有提出去看他。这位年轻的绅士被托付给他的姨妈和姨父来监护，而姨妈和姨父一直对这个孩子抱有很大的感情。当他离开英国时，他的妈妈从布洛涅给他写了一封简洁的信，请他保管他的书，并说她要去大陆旅行，期间她很高兴再次给他写信。但此后的一年里，她再也没有这样做过，事实上，直到皮特爵士唯一的儿子总是体弱多病，死于咳嗽和麻疹——然后罗登的妈妈给她亲爱的儿子写了最深情的文章，他被任命为女王的继承人。克劳利由于这次意外，比以往任何时候都更加亲近这位善良的女士，她温柔的心已经接纳了他。罗登·克劳利当时已长成一个高大、帅气的小伙子，收到这封信时脸红了。 “哦，简阿姨，你是我的妈妈！”他说。 “不是——不是那个。”但他给丽贝卡夫人回了一封善意而尊重的信，当时她住在佛罗伦萨的一间寄宿处。但我们正在推进事情。

Our darling Becky’s first flight was not very far. She perched upon the French coast at Boulogne, that refuge of so much exiled English innocence, and there lived in rather a genteel, widowed manner, with a femme de chambre and a couple of rooms, at an hotel. She dined at the table d’hote, where people thought her very pleasant, and where she entertained her neighbours by stories of her brother, Sir Pitt, and her great London acquaintance, talking that easy, fashionable slip-slop which has so much effect upon certain folks of small breeding. She passed with many of them for a person of importance; she gave little tea-parties in her private room and shared in the innocent amusements of the place in sea-bathing, and in jaunts in open carriages, in strolls on the sands, and in visits to the play. Mrs. Burjoice, the printer’s lady, who was boarding with her family at the hotel for the summer, and to whom her Burjoice came of a Saturday and Sunday, voted her charming, until that little rogue of a Burjoice began to pay her too much attention. But there was nothing in the story, only that Becky was always affable, easy, and good-natured—and with men especially.
我们亲爱的贝基的第一次飞行并不是很远。她栖息在法国海岸的布洛涅，那里是许多被流放的英国纯真的避难所，她在一家旅馆里过着一种相当上流、寡居的生活，有一位女士和几间房间。她在套餐​​里吃饭，人们认为她很和蔼可亲，她用她哥哥皮特爵士和她伦敦熟人的故事来招待邻居，说着轻松、时尚的废话，影响很大。对某些小规模的人来说。她和他们中的许多人一样被认为是一个重要人物。她在自己的私人房间里举办小型茶会，并参与海水浴、乘坐敞篷马车短途旅行、在沙滩上漫步以及参观戏剧等天真的娱乐活动。印刷商的伯乔伊斯太太暑假和家人一起住在旅馆里，周六和周日她的伯乔伊斯都会来，她认为她很有魅力，直到伯乔伊斯那个小流氓开始付给她太多的钱。注意力。但故事里并没有什么内容，只是说贝基总是和蔼可亲、随和、心地善良——尤其是对男人。

Numbers of people were going abroad as usual at the end of the season, and Becky had plenty of opportunities of finding out by the behaviour of her acquaintances of the great London world the opinion of ‘society’ as regarded her conduct. One day it was Lady Partlet and her daughters whom Becky confronted as she was walking modestly on Boulogne pier, the cliffs of Albion shining in the distance across the deep blue sea. Lady Partlet marshalled all her daughters round her with a sweep of her parasol and retreated from the pier, darting savage glances at poor little Becky who stood alone there.
季节结束时，许多人像往常一样出国，贝基有很多机会通过她在伦敦大世界的熟人的行为来了解“社会”对她行为的看法。有一天，贝基谦虚地走在布洛涅码头上，遇到的是帕特莱夫人和她的女儿们，远处阿尔比恩的悬崖在深蓝色的大海上闪闪发光。帕特莱夫人一挥阳伞，把所有的女儿们都聚集到了她周围，然后退出了码头，用野蛮的眼神扫视着独自站在那儿的可怜的小贝基。

On another day the packet came in. It had been blowing fresh, and it always suited Becky’s humour to see the droll woe-begone faces of the people as they emerged from the boat. Lady Slingstone happened to be on board this day. Her ladyship had been exceedingly ill in her carriage, and was greatly exhausted and scarcely fit to walk up the plank from the ship to the pier. But all her energies rallied the instant she saw Becky smiling roguishly under a pink bonnet, and giving her a glance of scorn such as would have shrivelled up most women, she walked into the Custom House quite unsupported. Becky only laughed: but I don’t think she liked it. She felt she was alone, quite alone, and the far-off shining cliffs of England were impassable to her.
另一天，包裹送来了。天气刚刚好，贝基的幽默感就是看到人们从船上出来时滑稽而悲伤的面孔。斯林斯通女士今天恰好在船上。夫人在马车上病得很重，已经非常疲惫，几乎无法从船上走上木板到码头。但当她看到贝基在粉红色帽子下顽皮地微笑，并用蔑视的眼神看了她一眼，就像大多数女人都会皱起眉头一样，她毫无搀扶地走进了海关大楼，她所有的精力都集中起来。贝基只是笑了笑：但我认为她不喜欢这样。她觉得自己很孤独，非常孤独，遥远的英国闪闪发光的悬崖对她来说是无法逾越的。

The behaviour of the men had undergone too I don’t know what change. Grinstone showed his teeth and laughed in her face with a familiarity that was not pleasant. Little Bob Suckling, who was cap in hand to her three months before, and would walk a mile in the rain to see for her carriage in the line at Gaunt House, was talking to Fitzoof of the Guards (Lord Heehaw’s son) one day upon the jetty, as Becky took her walk there. Little Bobby nodded to her over his shoulder, without moving his hat, and continued his conversation with the heir of Heehaw. Tom Raikes tried to walk into her sittingroom at the inn with a cigar in his mouth, but she closed the door upon him, and would have locked it, only that his fingers were inside. She began to feel that she was very lonely indeed. ‘If HE’D been here,’ she said, ‘those cowards would never have dared to insult me.’ She thought about ‘him’ with great sadness and perhaps longing—about his honest, stupid, constant kindness and fidelity; his never-ceasing obedience; his good humour; his bravery and courage. Very likely she cried, for she was particularly lively, and had put on a little extra rouge, when she came down to dinner.
男人们的行为也发生了不知道什么变化。格林斯通露出牙齿，当着她的面笑起来，笑容里带着一种令人不愉快的熟悉感。小鲍勃·萨克林三个月前还给她戴上帽子，冒着雨步行一英里去冈特宫看望她在队伍中的马车。贝基步行前往码头。小鲍比回头向她点点头，帽子没有动，继续和希霍的继承人交谈。汤姆·雷克斯（Tom Raikes）试图嘴里叼着雪茄走进她在旅馆的起居室，但她把他的门关上了，而且本来会锁上门的，只是他的手指在里面。她开始觉得自己确实很孤独。 “如果他在这里，”她说，“那些胆小鬼就永远不敢侮辱我。”她怀着巨大的悲伤和也许的渴望想到“他”——想到他的诚实、愚蠢、始终如一的善良和忠诚；想到他的诚实、愚蠢、始终如一的善良和忠诚；想到他，想到他。他永不停息的服从；他的幽默感；他的勇敢和勇气。很可能她哭了，因为她特别活泼，下楼吃饭的时候又涂了一点胭脂。

She rouged regularly now; and—and her maid got Cognac for her besides that which was charged in the hotel bill.
她现在经常涂口红。而且——除了酒店账单中收取的费用外，她的女仆还为她买了干邑白兰地。

Perhaps the insults of the men were not, however, so intolerable to her as the sympathy of certain women. Mrs. Crackenbury and Mrs. Washington White passed through Boulogne on their way to Switzerland. The party were protected by Colonel Horner, young Beaumoris, and of course old Crackenbury, and Mrs. White’s little girl. THEY did not avoid her. They giggled, cackled, tattled, condoled, consoled, and patronized her until they drove her almost wild with rage. To be patronized by THEM! she thought, as they went away simpering after kissing her. And she heard Beaumoris’s laugh ringing on the stair and knew quite well how to interpret his hilarity.
然而，也许男人们的侮辱对她来说并不像某些女人的同情那么难以忍受。克拉肯伯里夫人和华盛顿·怀特夫人在前往瑞士的途中经过布洛涅。一行人受到霍纳上校、年轻的博莫里斯的保护，当然还有老克拉肯伯里，还有怀特夫人的小女儿。他们并没有回避她。他们咯咯地笑、咯咯笑、闲聊、慰问、安慰、居高临下，直到把她气得几乎发疯。受到他们的惠顾！她想，他们吻完她后笑着走开。她听到博莫里斯的笑声在楼梯上响起，她很清楚如何解读他的欢笑。

It was after this visit that Becky, who had paid her weekly bills, Becky who had made herself agreeable to everybody in the house, who smiled at the landlady, called the waiters ‘monsieur,’ and paid the chambermaids in politeness and apologies, what far more than compensated for a little niggardliness in point of money (of which Becky never was free), that Becky, we say, received a notice to quit from the landlord, who had been told by some one that she was quite an unfit person to have at his hotel, where English ladies would not sit down with her. And she was forced to fly into lodgings of which the dulness and solitude were most wearisome to her.
正是在这次访问之后，贝基支付了每周的账单，贝基让自己对屋子里的每个人都感到满意，她对女房东微笑，称服务员为“先生”，并礼貌地向女服务员付钱并表示歉意，什么？我们说，贝基收到了房东的辞职通知，有人告诉房东，她是一个非常不合适的人，这远远超出了在金钱方面的一点小吝啬（贝基从来都没有免费）的补偿。在他的旅馆里，英国女士不会和她坐在一起。她被迫飞进宿舍，那里的沉闷和孤独让她感到最厌倦。

Still she held up, in spite of these rebuffs, and tried to make a character for herself and conquer scandal. She went to church very regularly and sang louder than anybody there. She took up the cause of the widows of the shipwrecked fishermen, and gave work and drawings for the Quashyboo Mission; she subscribed to the Assembly and WOULDN’T waltz. In a word, she did everything that was respectable, and that is why we dwell upon this part of her career with more fondness than upon subsequent parts of her history, which are not so pleasant. She saw people avoiding her, and still laboriously smiled upon them; you never could suppose from her countenance what pangs of humiliation she might be enduring inwardly.
尽管遭到这些拒绝，她仍然坚持了下来，并试图为自己塑造一个角色并克服丑闻。她经常去教堂，唱歌比那里的任何人都大声。她致力于帮助遇难渔民的遗孀，并为夸什布使命提供工作和图纸。她同意参加大会，但不会跳华尔兹。总之，她做了一切值得尊敬的事情，这就是为什么我们对她职业生涯的这一部分比对她的历史的后续部分更感兴趣，后者不太令人愉快。她看到人们躲着她，但仍然费力地对他们微笑。你永远无法从她的脸上猜到她内心承受着怎样的屈辱之痛。

Her history was after all a mystery. Parties were divided about her. Some people who took the trouble to busy themselves in the matter said that she was the criminal, whilst others vowed that she was as innocent as a lamb and that her odious husband was in fault. She won over a good many by bursting into tears about her boy and exhibiting the most frantic grief when his name was mentioned, or she saw anybody like him. She gained good Mrs. Alderney’s heart in that way, who was rather the Queen of British Boulogne and gave the most dinners and balls of all the residents there, by weeping when Master Alderney came from Dr. Swishtail’s academy to pass his holidays with his mother. ‘He and her Rawdon were of the same age, and so like,’ Becky said in a voice choking with agony; whereas there was five years’ difference between the boys’ ages, and no more likeness between them than between my respected reader and his humble servant. Wenham, when he was going abroad, on his way to Kissingen to join Lord Steyne, enlightened Mrs. Alderney on this point and told her how he was much more able to describe little Rawdon than his mamma, who notoriously hated him and never saw him; how he was thirteen years old, while little Alderney was but nine, fair, while the other darling was dark—in a word, caused the lady in question to repent of her good humour.
她的历史终究是一个谜。各方对她的看法存在分歧。有人不厌其烦地说她是罪人，也有人信誓旦旦地说她是无辜的，罪魁祸首是她那可恶的丈夫。她赢得了很多人的支持，因为她为她的儿子而泪流满面，当提到他的名字时，或者她看到像他这样的人时，她表现出最疯狂的悲伤。当奥尔德尼大师从斯威什泰尔博士的学院来与他的母亲一起度过假期时，她以这种方式赢得了善良的奥尔德尼夫人的心，她可以说是英国布洛涅的女王，是那里所有居民中举办最多宴会和舞会的人。 。 “他和她的罗登同龄，而且很像，”贝基痛苦地说，声音哽咽。而两个男孩的年龄相差五岁，而且他们之间的相似度并不比我尊敬的读者和他卑微的仆人之间的相似度高。当温纳姆出国前往基辛根与斯泰因勋爵会合时，他在这一点上启发了奥尔德尼夫人，并告诉她，他如何比他的妈妈更能描述小罗登，而他的妈妈是出了名的讨厌他，从未见过他。 ;他十三岁了，而小奥尔德尼才九岁，皮肤白皙，而另一个宝贝皮肤黝黑——总之，让那位女士后悔自己的好脾气。

Whenever Becky made a little circle for herself with incredible toils and labour, somebody came and swept it down rudely, and she had all her work to begin over again. It was very hard; very hard; lonely and disheartening.
每当贝基用令人难以置信的辛苦和劳动为自己画出一个小圆圈时，就会有人粗鲁地把它扫掉，然后她所有的工作都要重新开始。这非常艰难；很难;孤独和沮丧。

There was Mrs. Newbright, who took her up for some time, attracted by the sweetness of her singing at church and by her proper views upon serious subjects, concerning which in former days, at Queen’s Crawley, Mrs. Becky had had a good deal of instruction. Well, she not only took tracts, but she read them. She worked flannel petticoats for the Quashyboos—cotton night-caps for the Cocoanut Indians—painted handscreens for the conversion of the Pope and the Jews—sat under Mr. Rowls on Wednesdays, Mr. Huggleton on Thursdays, attended two Sunday services at church, besides Mr. Bawler, the Darbyite, in the evening, and all in vain. Mrs. Newbright had occasion to correspond with the Countess of Southdown about the Warmingpan Fund for the Fiji Islanders (for the management of which admirable charity both these ladies formed part of a female committee), and having mentioned her ‘sweet friend,’ Mrs. Rawdon Crawley, the Dowager Countess wrote back such a letter regarding Becky, with such particulars, hints, facts, falsehoods, and general comminations, that intimacy between Mrs. Newbright and Mrs. Crawley ceased forthwith, and all the serious world of Tours, where this misfortune took place, immediately parted company with the reprobate. Those who know the English Colonies abroad know that we carry with us us our pride, pills, prejudices, Harvey-sauces, cayenne-peppers, and other Lares, making a little Britain wherever we settle down.
纽布赖特夫人也跟着她待了一段时间，她被她在教堂里甜美的歌声和她对严肃话题的正确看法所吸引，在过去的日子里，贝基夫人在皇后克劳利大学就这些问题进行了很多讨论。的指导。嗯，她不仅拿了单张，而且还读了它们。她为Quashyboos制作法兰绒衬裙——为椰子印第安人制作棉质睡帽——为教皇和犹太人的皈依绘制手屏——周三坐在罗尔斯先生的手下，周四坐在赫格尔顿先生的手下，参加教堂的两次周日礼拜，除了鲍勒先生，达比派，晚上，一切都是徒劳。纽布赖特夫人有机会与南唐伯爵夫人就斐济岛民的Warmingpan基金进行通信（为了管理这个令人钦佩的慈善机构，两位女士组成了一个女性委员会），并提到了她的“甜蜜的朋友”，纽布赖特夫人。伯爵夫人罗顿·克劳利回了一封关于贝基的信，其中包含了如此多的细节、暗示、事实、谎言和一般性的交流，纽布赖特夫人和克劳利夫人之间的亲密关系立即停止了，图尔所有严肃的世界也都结束了。这件不幸的事发生了，立即与恶棍分手。那些了解海外英国殖民地的人都知道，我们随身带着骄傲、药物、偏见、哈维酱、辣椒和其他拉雷斯，无论我们在哪里定居，都让我们成为一个小英国。

From one colony to another Becky fled uneasily. From Boulogne to Dieppe, from Dieppe to Caen, from Caen to Tours—trying with all her might to be respectable, and alas! always found out some day or other and pecked out of the cage by the real daws.
贝基不安地从一个殖民地逃到另一个殖民地。从布洛涅到迪耶普，从迪耶普到卡昂，从卡昂到图尔——竭尽全力表现得受人尊敬，可惜！总有一天会发现并被真正的鸭子从笼子里啄出来。

Mrs. Hook Eagles took her up at one of these places—a woman without a blemish in her character and a house in Portman Square. She was staying at the hotel at Dieppe, whither Becky fled, and they made each other’s acquaintance first at sea, where they were swimming together, and subsequently at the table d’hote of the hotel. Mrs Eagles had heard—who indeed had not?—some of the scandal of the Steyne affair; but after a conversation with Becky, she pronounced that Mrs. Crawley was an angel, her husband a ruffian, Lord Steyne an unprincipled wretch, as everybody knew, and the whole case against Mrs. Crawley an infamous and wicked conspiracy of that rascal Wenham. ‘If you were a man of any spirit, Mr. Eagles, you would box the wretch’s ears the next time you see him at the Club,’ she said to her husband. But Eagles was only a quiet old gentleman, husband to Mrs. Eagles, with a taste for geology, and not tall enough to reach anybody’s ears.
胡克·伊格斯夫人带她到了其中一个地方——一个品格完美的女人，还有波特曼广场的一所房子。她当时住在迪耶普的酒店，贝基逃到那里，他们首先是在海上一起游泳，然后是在酒店的套餐中认识的。伊格尔斯夫人听说过——谁确实没有听说过？——斯泰因事件的一些丑闻。但在与贝基交谈后，她宣称克劳利夫人是天使，她的丈夫是恶棍，斯泰因勋爵是无原则的恶棍，这是众所周知的，而针对克劳利夫人的整个案件是那个无赖韦纳姆的臭名昭著的邪恶阴谋。 “如果你是一个有精神的人，伊格尔斯先生，下次你在俱乐部见到这个可怜虫时，你就会打他的耳朵，”她对她的丈夫说。但伊格尔斯只是一位安静的老绅士，是伊格尔斯夫人的丈夫，对地质学有兴趣，而且身高不够高，无法传到任何人的耳朵里。

The Eagles then patronized Mrs. Rawdon, took her to live with her at her own house at Paris, quarrelled with the ambassador’s wife because she would not receive her protegee, and did all that lay in woman’s power to keep Becky straight in the paths of virtue and good repute.
随后，老鹰们资助了罗登夫人，带她住在自己在巴黎的家里，与大使夫人发生了争吵，因为她不接受她的保护人，并尽了一切妇女的力量来让贝基走上正确的道路。德行和良好的声誉。

Becky was very respectable and orderly at first, but the life of humdrum virtue grew utterly tedious to her before long. It was the same routine every day, the same dulness and comfort, the same drive over the same stupid Bois de Boulogne, the same company of an evening, the same Blair’s Sermon of a Sunday night—the same opera always being acted over and over again; Becky was dying of weariness, when, luckily for her, young Mr. Eagles came from Cambridge, and his mother, seeing the impression which her little friend made upon him, straightway gave Becky warning.
贝基一开始非常受人尊敬、井然有序，但不久之后，单调的美德生活对她来说就变得十分乏味。每天都是同样的例行公事，同样的沉闷和舒适，同样的驾车经过同样愚蠢的布洛涅森林，同样的夜晚陪伴，周日晚上同样的布莱尔布道——同样的歌剧总是一遍又一遍地上演再次;贝基快累死了，幸运的是，年轻的伊格尔斯先生从剑桥来了，他的母亲看到她的小朋友给他留下的印象，立即警告贝基。

Then she tried keeping house with a female friend; then the double menage began to quarrel and get into debt. Then she determined upon a boarding-house existence and lived for some time at that famous mansion kept by Madame de Saint Amour, in the Rue Royale, at Paris, where she began exercising her graces and fascinations upon the shabby dandies and fly-blown beauties who frequented her landlady’s salons. Becky loved society and, indeed, could no more exist without it than an opium-eater without his dram, and she was happy enough at the period of her boarding-house life. ‘The women here are as amusing as those in May Fair,’ she told an old London friend who met her, ‘only, their dresses are not quite so fresh. The men wear cleaned gloves, and are sad rogues, certainly, but they are not worse than Jack This and Tom That. The mistress of the house is a little vulgar, but I don’t think she is so vulgar as Lady ———‘ and here she named the name of a great leader of fashion that I would die rather than reveal. In fact, when you saw Madame de Saint Amour’s rooms lighted up of a night, men with plaques and cordons at the ecarte tables, and the women at a little distance, you might fancy yourself for a while in good society, and that Madame was a real Countess. Many people did so fancy, and Becky was for a while one of the most dashing ladies of the Countess’s salons.
然后她尝试和一位女性朋友一起过家家。随后，两家人开始争吵并负债累累。然后，她决定住在寄宿公寓里，并在巴黎皇家街圣阿穆尔夫人所拥有的那座著名宅邸里住了一段时间，在那里她开始对那些破旧的花花公子和花哨的美女施展她的优雅和迷恋。她经常光顾女房东的沙龙。贝基热爱社交，事实上，没有社交就无法存在，就像吸鸦片的人没有酒一样，她在寄宿公寓的生活很幸福。 “这里的女人和梅菲尔的女人一样有趣，”她告诉一位遇见她的伦敦老朋友，“只是，她们的衣服不太新鲜。”这些人戴着干净的手套，当然是可悲的流氓，但他们并不比杰克这个和汤姆那个差。女主人有点粗俗，但我不认为她像“女士”那么粗俗，而且在这里她说出了一位伟大的时尚领袖的名字，我宁愿死也不愿透露。事实上，当你看到圣阿穆尔夫人的房间在夜晚灯火通明，男人们在餐桌上挂着牌匾和警戒线，而女人们则在不远的地方时，你可能会暂时想象自己身处上流社会，而夫人是真正的伯爵夫人。很多人都这么喜欢，贝基一度是伯爵夫人沙龙中最潇洒的女士之一。

But it is probable that her old creditors of 1815 found her out and caused her to leave Paris, for the poor little woman was forced to fly from the city rather suddenly, and went thence to Brussels.
但很可能是 1815 年她的老债权人发现了她，并迫使她离开巴黎，因为这个可怜的小女人突然被迫逃离这座城市，从那里去了布鲁塞尔。

How well she remembered the place! She grinned as she looked up at the little entresol which she had occupied, and thought of the Bareacres family, bawling for horses and flight, as their carriage stood in the porte-cochere of the hotel. She went to Waterloo and to Laeken, where George Osborne’s monument much struck her. She made a little sketch of it. ‘That poor Cupid!’ she said; ‘how dreadfully he was in love with me, and what a fool he was! I wonder whether little Emmy is alive. It was a good little creature; and that fat brother of hers. I have his funny fat picture still among my papers. They were kind simple people.’
她对这个地方记得多么清楚啊！当她抬头看着自己占据的小中厅时，她咧嘴一笑，想起了巴里亚克斯一家，当他们的马车停在旅馆的门廊上时，他们大声呼喊着要马和逃跑。她去了滑铁卢和拉肯，那里的乔治·奥斯本纪念碑给她留下了深刻的印象。她画了一个小草图。 “那个可怜的丘比特！”她说道。 ‘他是多么爱我，多么愚蠢啊！我想知道小艾美是否还活着。这是一个很好的小动物。还有她那个胖哥哥。我的报纸上还保留着他那张滑稽的肥胖照片。他们是善良简单的人。

At Brussels Becky arrived, recommended by Madame de Saint Amour to her friend, Madame la Comtesse de Borodino, widow of Napoleon’s General, the famous Count de Borodino, who was left with no resource by the deceased hero but that of a table d’hote and an ecarte table. Second-rate dandies and roues, widow-ladies who always have a lawsuit, and very simple English folks, who fancy they see ‘Continental society’ at these houses, put down their money, or ate their meals, at Madame de Borodino’s tables. The gallant young fellows treated the company round to champagne at the table d’hote, rode out with the women, or hired horses on country excursions, clubbed money to take boxes at the play or the opera, betted over the fair shoulders of the ladies at the ecarte tables, and wrote home to their parents in Devonshire about their felicitous introduction to foreign society.
在圣阿穆尔夫人的推荐下，贝基到达了布鲁塞尔。她的朋友博罗季诺伯爵夫人是拿破仑将军著名的博罗季诺伯爵的遗孀，这位已故英雄除了一顿定食之外没有给她留下任何资源。和一个电子表格。二流的纨绔子弟、总是打官司的寡妇，以及非常朴素的英国人，他们幻想在这些房子里看到“大陆社会”，在德博罗蒂诺夫人的餐桌上放下钱，或者吃饭。勇敢的年轻人在餐桌上用香槟招待大家，与女士们一起骑马出去，或者租马去乡村旅行，用棍棒花钱在戏剧或歌剧院买包厢，在女士们白皙的肩膀上下注并写信给德文郡的父母，讲述他们对外国社会的愉快介绍。

Here, as at Paris, Becky was a boarding-house queen, and ruled in select pensions. She never refused the champagne, or the bouquets, or the drives into the country, or the private boxes; but what she preferred was the ecarte at night,—and she played audaciously. First she played only for a little, then for five-franc pieces, then for Napoleons, then for notes: then she would not be able to pay her month’s pension: then she borrowed from the young gentlemen: then she got into cash again and bullied Madame de Borodino, whom she had coaxed and wheedled before: then she was playing for ten sous at a time, and in a dire state of poverty: then her quarter’s allowance would come in, and she would pay off Madame de Borodino’s score and would once more take the cards against Monsieur de Rossignol, or the Chevalier de Raff.
在这里，就像在巴黎一样，贝基是一名寄宿公寓女王，并领取精选养老金。她从不拒绝香槟、花束、开车去乡间或私人包厢；她从来没有拒绝过。但她更喜欢晚上的 Ecarte，而且她玩得很大胆。起初她只玩一点点，然后是五法郎，然后是拿破仑，然后是纸币：然后她将无法支付一个月的养老金：然后她向年轻的绅士们借钱：然后她再次陷入现金，欺负德博罗季诺夫人，她以前曾哄骗过她：然后她一次为十苏演奏，而且处于极度贫困的状态：然后她的季度津贴就会进来，她会偿还德博罗季诺夫人的分数，会再次拿牌对抗德罗西尼奥尔先生或拉夫骑士。

When Becky left Brussels, the sad truth is that she owed three months’ pension to Madame de Borodino, of which fact, and of the gambling, and of the drinking, and of the going down on her knees to the Reverend Mr. Muff, Ministre Anglican, and borrowing money of him, and of her coaxing and flirting with Milor Noodle, son of Sir Noodle, pupil of the Rev. Mr. Muff, whom she used to take into her private room, and of whom she won large sums at ecarte—of which fact, I say, and of a hundred of her other knaveries, the Countess de Borodino informs every English person who stops at her establishment, and announces that Madame Rawdon was no better than a vipere.
当贝基离开布鲁塞尔时，可悲的事实是她欠博罗季诺夫人三个月的养老金，这一事实，还有赌博、酗酒，以及向莫夫牧师先生下跪，英国圣公会牧师，向他借钱，以及她对米洛·努德尔（米洛·努德尔）的哄骗和调情，米洛尔·努德尔是努德尔爵士的儿子，莫夫牧师先生的学生，她经常把他带进她的私人房间，并从他那里赢得了大笔钱我要说的是，关于这一事实，以及她的其他一百个恶棍，博罗迪诺伯爵夫人告诉每一个在她的店里停下来的英国人，并宣布罗登夫人并不比一条毒蛇更好。

So our little wanderer went about setting up her tent in various cities of Europe, as restless as Ulysses or Bampfylde Moore Carew. Her taste for disrespectability grew more and more remarkable. She became a perfect Bohemian ere long, herding with people whom it would make your hair stand on end to meet.
于是，我们的小流浪者开始在欧洲各个城市搭起帐篷，就像《尤利西斯》或班普菲尔德·摩尔·卡鲁一样焦躁不安。她对不尊重的品味越来越明显。不久之后，她就变成了一个完美的波西米亚人，与那些见面会让你毛骨悚然的人在一起。

There is no town of any mark in Europe but it has its little colony of English raffs—men whose names Mr. Hemp the officer reads out periodically at the Sheriffs’ Court—young gentlemen of very good family often, only that the latter disowns them; frequenters of billiard-rooms and estaminets, patrons of foreign races and gamingtables. They people the debtors’ prisons—they drink and swagger— they fight and brawl—they run away without paying—they have duels with French and German officers—they cheat Mr. Spooney at ecarte— they get the money and drive off to Baden in magnificent britzkas— they try their infallible martingale and lurk about the tables with empty pockets, shabby bullies, penniless bucks, until they can swindle a Jew banker with a sham bill of exchange, or find another Mr. Spooney to rob. The alternations of splendour and misery which these people undergo are very queer to view. Their life must be one of great excitement. Becky—must it be owned?—took to this life, and took to it not unkindly. She went about from town to town among these Bohemians. The lucky Mrs. Rawdon was known at every playtable in Germany. She and Madame de Cruchecassee kept house at Florence together. It is said she was ordered out of Munich, and my friend Mr. Frederick Pigeon avers that it was at her house at Lausanne that he was hocussed at supper and lost eight hundred pounds to Major Loder and the Honourable Mr. Deuceace. We are bound, you see, to give some account of Becky’s biography, but of this part, the less, perhaps, that is said the better.
欧洲没有任何一个有名气的城镇，但它却有一小群英国流氓——官员们定期在治安官法庭上宣读他们的名字，汉普先生——经常是来自良好家庭的年轻绅士，只是后者不承认他们的关系。 ;台球室和桌球室的常客，外国比赛和赌桌的赞助人。他们住在债务人的监狱里——他们喝酒、招摇——他们打架斗殴——他们不付钱就逃跑——他们与法国和德国军官决斗——他们在电子卡特上欺骗斯普尼先生——他们拿到钱后开车去巴登。他们尝试着万无一失的鞅法，口袋空空，衣衫褴褛的恶霸，身无分文的钱潜伏在桌子上，直到他们能用一张假汇票诈骗一个犹太银行家，或者找到另一个斯普尼先生来抢劫。这些人所经历的辉煌与苦难的交替是非常奇怪的。他们的生活一定是非常激动人心的。贝基——必须拥有它吗？——接受了这种生活，而且并不无情。她和这些波希米亚人一起从一个城镇到另一个城镇。幸运的罗登夫人在德国的每一个游戏桌上都广为人知。她和德·克鲁切卡西夫人一起在佛罗伦萨看家。据说她被命令离开慕尼黑，我的朋友弗雷德里克·皮金先生声称，正是在她洛桑的家中，他在晚饭时大肆狂欢，并给洛德少校和尊敬的杜斯先生减掉了八百磅。你看，我们有义务对贝基的传记进行一些描述，但这部分，也许说得越少越好。

They say that, when Mrs. Crawley was particularly down on her luck, she gave concerts and lessons in music here and there. There was a Madame de Raudon, who certainly had a matinee musicale at Wildbad, accompanied by Herr Spoff, premier pianist to the Hospodar of Wallachia, and my little friend Mr. Eaves, who knew everybody and had travelled everywhere, always used to declare that he was at Strasburg in the year 1830, when a certain Madame Rebecque made her appearance in the opera of the Dame Blanche, giving occasion to a furious row in the theatre there. She was hissed off the stage by the audience, partly from her own incompetency, but chiefly from the ill-advised sympathy of some persons in the parquet, (where the officers of the garrison had their admissions); and Eaves was certain that the unfortunate debutante in question was no other than Mrs. Rawdon Crawley.
他们说，当克劳利夫人运气特别差时，她到处举办音乐会和音乐课。有一位德·拉东夫人，她在维尔德巴德肯定有一场日场音乐剧，伴奏者是瓦拉几亚霍斯波达的首席钢琴家斯波夫先生，而我的小朋友伊夫斯先生，他认识所有人，去过世界各地，总是宣称： 1830年，他在斯特拉斯堡，当时丽贝克夫人在布兰奇夫人的歌剧中露面，在剧院里引起了激烈的争吵。她被观众嘘下了舞台，部分原因是她自己的无能，但主要是因为镶木地板上一些人的不明智的同情（驻军军官在那里承认了）；伊夫斯确信这位不幸的初次登场的女子不是别人，正是罗登·克劳利夫人。

She was, in fact, no better than a vagabond upon this earth. When she got her money she gambled; when she had gambled it she was put to shifts to live; who knows how or by what means she succeeded? It is said that she was once seen at St. Petersburg, but was summarily dismissed from that capital by the police, so that there cannot be any possibility of truth in the report that she was a Russian spy at Toplitz and Vienna afterwards. I have even been informed that at Paris she discovered a relation of her own, no less a person than her maternal grandmother, who was not by any means a Montmorenci, but a hideous old box-opener at a theatre on the Boulevards. The meeting between them, of which other persons, as it is hinted elsewhere, seem to have been acquainted, must have been a very affecting interview. The present historian can give no certain details regarding the event.
事实上，她只不过是这个地球上的一个流浪汉。当她拿到钱后，她就去赌博；当她赌完之后，她就被安排轮班生活。谁知道她是如何或通过什么手段成功的？据说她曾在圣彼得堡被人看见，但很快就被警方从首都驱逐出境，因此后来关于她在托普利茨和维也纳担任俄罗斯间谍的报道不可能有任何真实性。我什至听说，她在巴黎发现了自己的一个亲戚，与她的外祖母毫不逊色，她绝不是蒙莫伦西家族的人，而是林荫大道一家剧院里一个丑陋的老开箱人。他们之间的会面，正如其他地方所暗示的那样，其他人似乎也熟悉这次会面，这一定是一次非常感人的采访。目前的历史学家无法提供有关该事件的具体细节。

It happened at Rome once that Mrs. de Rawdon’s half-year’s salary had just been paid into the principal banker’s there, and, as everybody who had a balance of above five hundred scudi was invited to the balls which this prince of merchants gave during the winter, Becky had the honour of a card, and appeared at one of the Prince and Princess Polonia’s splendid evening entertainments. The Princess was of the family of Pompili, lineally descended from the second king of Rome, and Egeria of the house of Olympus, while the Prince’s grandfather, Alessandro Polonia, sold wash-balls, essences, tobacco, and pocket-handkerchiefs, ran errands for gentlemen, and lent money in a small way. All the great company in Rome thronged to his saloons—Princes, Dukes, Ambassadors, artists, fiddlers, monsignori, young bears with their leaders—every rank and condition of man. His halls blazed with light and magnificence; were resplendent with gilt frames (containing pictures), and dubious antiques; and the enormous gilt crown and arms of the princely owner, a gold mushroom on a crimson field (the colour of the pocket-handkerchiefs which he sold), and the silver fountain of the Pompili family shone all over the roof, doors, and panels of the house, and over the grand velvet baldaquins prepared to receive Popes and Emperors.
有一次，在罗马，德·罗登夫人的半年薪水刚刚存入当地主要银行家的账户，而且，所有余额超过五百斯库迪的人都被邀请参加这位商人王子在罗马期间举办的舞会。冬天，贝基有幸获得了一张卡片，并出现在波洛尼亚王子和公主举办的一场精彩的晚间娱乐活动中。公主出身于庞皮利家族，是罗马第二任国王的直系后裔，而王子的祖父亚历山德罗·波洛尼亚则是出售洗衣球、香精、烟草和手帕、跑腿的。为先生们，以小额方式借钱。罗马所有的大人物都聚集在他的酒馆里——王子、公爵、大使、艺术家、小提琴手、主教、年轻的熊和他们的领袖——各种等级和条件的人。他的大厅灯火辉煌，富丽堂皇。里面有金碧辉煌的镀金画框（内有图画）和可疑的古董；还有王子主人的巨大的镀金王冠和徽章，深红色的田野上的金色蘑菇（他出售的手帕的颜色），庞皮利家族的银色喷泉在屋顶、门和面板上闪闪发光房子的上方，还有准备接待教皇和皇帝的宏伟天鹅绒华盖。

So Becky, who had arrived in the diligence from Florence, and was lodged at an inn in a very modest way, got a card for Prince Polonia’s entertainment, and her maid dressed her with unusual care, and she went to this fine ball leaning on the arm of Major Loder, with whom she happened to be travelling at the time—(the same man who shot Prince Ravoli at Naples the next year, and was caned by Sir John Buckskin for carrying four kings in his hat besides those which he used in playing at ecarte )—and this pair went into the rooms together, and Becky saw a number of old faces which she remembered in happier days, when she was not innocent, but not found out. Major Loder knew a great number of foreigners, keen-looking whiskered men with dirty striped ribbons in their buttonholes, and a very small display of linen; but his own countrymen, it might be remarked, eschewed the Major. Becky, too, knew some ladies here and there—French widows, dubious Italian countesses, whose husbands had treated them ill—faugh—what shall we say, we who have moved among some of the finest company of Vanity Fair, of this refuse and sediment of rascals? If we play, let it be with clean cards, and not with this dirty pack. But every man who has formed one of the innumerable army of travellers has seen these marauding irregulars hanging on, like Nym and Pistol, to the main force, wearing the king’s colours and boasting of his commission, but pillaging for themselves, and occasionally gibbeted by the roadside.
于是，贝基从佛罗伦萨千辛万苦赶来，在一家客栈里住得很简陋，得到了一张波洛尼亚王子的娱乐卡，她的女仆异常细心地为她穿好衣服，她就倚着身子去参加这个精美的舞会。洛德少校的手臂，当时她碰巧和他一起旅行——（第二年在那不勒斯枪杀了拉沃利王子的那个人，并被约翰·巴克斯金爵士鞭打，因为他的帽子里除了他用过的那些之外还带着四张国王）在 ecarte 玩）——这两个人一起走进房间，贝基看到了许多她在快乐的日子里记得的老面孔，当时她并不无辜，但没有被发现。洛德少校认识很多外国人，他们都是长相敏锐、留着胡须的男人，纽扣孔里别着脏兮兮的条纹丝带，还有一小块亚麻布展示架。但有人可能会说，他自己的同胞却避开了少校。贝基也认识这里那里的一些女士——法国寡妇，可疑的意大利伯爵夫人，她们的丈夫虐待她们——呸——我们该说什么呢，我们这些在《名利场》最优秀的公司里混过的人，对这种拒绝和流氓的沉淀物？如果我们玩的话，就用干净的牌，而不是用肮脏的牌。但每一个组成了无数旅行者大军的人都见过这些掠夺性的非正规军，就像尼姆和皮斯托尔一样，紧随主力部队，穿着国王的旗帜，吹嘘他的使命，但为自己掠夺，偶尔还被国王绞死。路边。

Well, she was hanging on the arm of Major Loder, and they went through the rooms together, and drank a great quantity of champagne at the buffet, where the people, and especially the Major’s irregular corps, struggled furiously for refreshments, of which when the pair had had enough, they pushed on until they reached the Duchess’s own pink velvet saloon, at the end of the suite of apartments (where the statue of the Venus is, and the great Venice looking-glasses, framed in silver), and where the princely family were entertaining their most distinguished guests at a round table at supper. It was just such a little select banquet as that of which Becky recollected that she had partaken at Lord Steyne’s—and there he sat at Polonia’s table, and she saw him. The scar cut by the diamond on his white, bald, shining forehead made a burning red mark; his red whiskers were dyed of a purple hue, which made his pale face look still paler. He wore his collar and orders, his blue ribbon and garter. He was a greater Prince than any there, though there was a reigning Duke and a Royal Highness, with their princesses, and near his Lordship was seated the beautiful Countess of Belladonna, nee de Glandier, whose husband (the Count Paolo della Belladonna), so well known for his brilliant entomological collections, had been long absent on a mission to the Emperor of Morocco.
好吧，她挽着洛德少校的胳膊，他们一起穿过房间，在自助餐厅喝了大量的香槟，那里的人们，尤其是少校的非正规部队，疯狂地争夺茶点，当两人已经受够了，他们继续前行，直到到达公爵夫人自己的粉红色天鹅绒沙龙，位于公寓套房的尽头（那里有维纳斯雕像，还有银框的威尼斯大镜子），王子家族正在圆桌旁招待最尊贵的客人吃晚饭。这只是贝基记得她在斯泰因勋爵家参加过的一场小型精选宴会——他坐在波洛尼亚的餐桌旁，她看到了他。他洁白、秃顶、光亮的额头上被钻石划出的伤疤，留下一道火红的印记；红色的胡须被染成了紫色，衬得他苍白的脸色更加苍白。他佩戴衣领和勋章，佩戴蓝丝带和吊袜带。他是比那里任何一位王子都伟大的王子，尽管有一位在位的公爵和一位王子殿下，以及他们的公主，在他的领主旁边坐着美丽的贝拉多纳伯爵夫人，娘家姓德·格兰迪埃，她的丈夫（保罗·德拉·贝拉多纳伯爵），他因出色的昆虫学收藏而闻名，但他长期缺席拜访摩洛哥皇帝。

When Becky beheld that familiar and illustrious face, how vulgar all of a sudden did Major Loder appear to her, and how that odious Captain Rook did smell of tobacco! In one instant she reassumed her fine-ladyship and tried to look and feel as if she were in May Fair once more. ‘That woman looks stupid and ill-humoured,’ she thought; ‘I am sure she can’t amuse him. No, he must be bored by her—he never was by me.’ A hundred such touching hopes, fears, and memories palpitated in her little heart, as she looked with her brightest eyes (the rouge which she wore up to her eyelids made them twinkle) towards the great nobleman. Of a Star and Garter night Lord Steyne used also to put on his grandest manner and to look and speak like a great prince, as he was. Becky admired him smiling sumptuously, easy, lofty, and stately. Ah, bon Dieu, what a pleasant companion he was, what a brilliant wit, what a rich fund of talk, what a grand manner!—and she had exchanged this for Major Loder, reeking of cigars and brandy-and-water, and Captain Rook with his horsejockey jokes and prize-ring slang, and their like. ‘I wonder whether he will know me,’ she thought. Lord Steyne was talking and laughing with a great and illustrious lady at his side, when he looked up and saw Becky.
当贝基看到那张熟悉而显赫的面孔时，洛德少校突然显得多么粗俗，而那个可恶的鲁克船长身上又散发着烟草味！刹那间，她又恢复了优雅的淑女气质，努力让自己看起来和感觉上好像又回到了梅菲尔。 “那个女人看上去既愚蠢又脾气暴躁，”她想。 “我确信她不能让他开心。不，他一定是对她感到厌烦了——他从来没有和我在一起过。”当她用她最明亮的眼睛（她在眼睑上涂抹的胭脂使他们闪烁）朝着伟大的贵族。在星与嘉德之夜，斯泰因勋爵也常常表现出他最庄严的举止，无论是外表还是说话都像一位伟大的王子。贝基很欣赏他的笑容，华丽、轻松、高远、庄严。啊，老天，他是一个多么令人愉快的伙伴，多么聪明的才智，多么丰富的谈话，多么堂皇的举止！——她用这个交换了洛德少校，散发着雪茄和白兰地和水的臭味，并且鲁克船长讲了他的骑师笑话和颁奖台俚语等等。 “我想知道他是否会认识我，”她想。斯泰因勋爵正和身边一位伟大显赫的女士有说有笑，抬头看到了贝基。

She was all over in a flutter as their eyes met, and she put on the very best smile she could muster, and dropped him a little, timid, imploring curtsey. He stared aghast at her for a minute, as Macbeth might on beholding Banquo’s sudden appearance at his ball-supper, and remained looking at her with open mouth, when that horrid Major Loder pulled her away.
当他们的目光相遇时，她整个人都激动起来，她露出了她能堆起的最好的微笑，然后向他行了一个小小的、胆怯的、恳求的屈膝礼。他惊愕地盯着她看了一会儿，就像麦克白看到班柯突然出现在他的舞会晚宴上一样，当那个可怕的洛德少校把她拉开时，他仍然张着嘴看着她。

‘Come away into the supper-room, Mrs. R.,’ was that gentleman’s remark: ‘seeing these nobs grubbing away has made me peckish too. Let’s go and try the old governor’s champagne.’ Becky thought the Major had had a great deal too much already.
“到晚餐室去吧，R. 太太，”那位绅士说道，“看到这些笨蛋在吃东西，我也饿了。”我们去尝尝老总督的香槟吧。”贝基觉得少校已经喝得太多了。

The day after she went to walk on the Pincian Hill—the Hyde Park of the Roman idlers—possibly in hopes to have another sight of Lord Steyne. But she met another acquaintance there: it was Mr. Fiche, his lordship’s confidential man, who came up nodding to her rather familiarly and putting a finger to his hat. ‘I knew that Madame was here,’ he said; ‘I followed her from her hotel. I have some advice to give Madame.’
第二天，她去平西安山（罗马闲人的海德公园）散步，可能是希望能再次见到斯泰因勋爵。但她在那里遇到了另一个熟人：费奇先生，伯爵领主的心腹，他走过来很熟悉地向她点头，并用一根手指放在帽子上。 “我知道夫人在这里，”他说。 “我从她的旅馆跟着她。我有一些建议要给夫人。

‘From the Marquis of Steyne?’ Becky asked, resuming as much of her dignity as she could muster, and not a little agitated by hope and expectation.
“来自斯泰因侯爵的？”贝基问道，她尽可能地恢复了尊严，并没有因为希望和期待而感到一丝不安。

‘No,’ said the valet; ‘it is from me. Rome is very unwholesome.’
“不，”男仆说。 ‘这是我写的。罗马非常不健康。”

‘Not at this season, Monsieur Fiche—not till after Easter.’
“这个季节不行，费什先生——要等到复活节之后。”

‘I tell Madame it is unwholesome now. There is always malaria for some people. That cursed marsh wind kills many at all seasons. Look, Madame Crawley, you were always bon enfant, and I have an interest in you, parole d’honneur. Be warned. Go away from Rome, I tell you—or you will be ill and die.’
“我告诉夫人现在不健康了。”有些人总是患有疟疾。那场该死的沼泽风在任何季节都会杀死许多人。听着，克劳利夫人，你一直都是个好孩子，我对你很感兴趣，荣誉假释。被警告。我告诉你，离开罗马——否则你会生病然后死去。

Becky laughed, though in rage and fury. ‘What! assassinate poor little me?’ she said. ‘How romantic! Does my lord carry bravos for couriers, and stilettos in the fourgons? Bah! I will stay, if but to plague him. I have those who will defend me whilst I am here.’
贝基笑了，尽管带着愤怒和愤怒。 '什么！刺杀可怜的小我？”她说。 '多么浪漫！我的主人是否为信使携带布拉沃斯和四角细高跟鞋？呸!我会留下来，哪怕只是为了折磨他。当我在这里的时候，我会有人保护我。

It was Monsieur Fiche’s turn to laugh now. ‘Defend you,’ he said, ‘and who? The Major, the Captain, any one of those gambling men whom Madame sees would take her life for a hundred louis. We know things about Major Loder (he is no more a Major than I am my Lord the Marquis) which would send him to the galleys or worse. We know everything and have friends everywhere. We know whom you saw at Paris, and what relations you found there. Yes, Madame may stare, but we do. How was it that no minister on the Continent would receive Madame? She has offended somebody: who never forgives— whose rage redoubled when he saw you. He was like a madman last night when he came home. Madame de Belladonna made him a scene about you and fired off in one of her furies.’
现在轮到费什先生笑了。 “保卫你，”他说，“还有谁呢？少校，上尉，任何一个夫人见到的赌徒都会为了一百路易而夺走她的生命。我们了解洛德少校的情况（他不是少校，就像我不是我的侯爵大人一样），这会让他被送进桨帆船或更糟的地方。我们无所不知，到处都有朋友。我们知道您在巴黎见到了谁，以及您在那里找到了哪些关系。是的，夫人可能会盯着看，但我们会看。怎么大陆上没有大臣会接待夫人呢？她冒犯了一个永远不会原谅的人——当他看到你时，他的愤怒加倍。昨晚他回到家时就像个疯子。贝拉多娜夫人给他起了一场关于你的戏，然后愤怒地开枪了。

‘Oh, it was Madame de Belladonna, was it?’ Becky said, relieved a little, for the information she had just got had scared her.
“哦，是贝拉多娜夫人，是吗？”贝基松了口气，因为刚刚得到的信息吓到了她。

‘No—she does not matter—she is always jealous. I tell you it was Monseigneur. You did wrong to show yourself to him. And if you stay here you will repent it. Mark my words. Go. Here is my lord’s carriage’—and seizing Becky’s arm, he rushed down an alley of the garden as Lord Steyne’s barouche, blazing with heraldic devices, came whirling along the avenue, borne by the almost priceless horses, and bearing Madame de Belladonna lolling on the cushions, dark, sulky, and blooming, a King Charles in her lap, a white parasol swaying over her head, and old Steyne stretched at her side with a livid face and ghastly eyes. Hate, or anger, or desire caused them to brighten now and then still, but ordinarily, they gave no light, and seemed tired of looking out on a world of which almost all the pleasure and all the best beauty had palled upon the worn-out wicked old man.
“不——她不重要——她总是嫉妒。我告诉你这是大人。你向他展示自己是错误的。如果你留在这里你会后悔的。记住我的话。去。这是我勋爵的马车”——他抓住贝基的手臂，沿着花园的一条小巷冲去，而斯泰因勋爵的四轮马车，闪耀着纹章图案，沿着大道旋转而来，由几乎价值连城的马匹载着，贝拉多娜夫人懒洋洋地躺在上面。坐垫颜色黝黑、闷闷不乐、花团锦簇，查尔斯国王坐在她的腿上，一把白色的遮阳伞在她的头上摇曳，老斯泰恩躺在她身边，脸色铁青，眼睛可怕。仇恨、愤怒或欲望使它们时不时地变得明亮，但通常情况下，它们不发光，似乎厌倦了眺望这个世界，在这个世界上，几乎所有的快乐和所有最美好的事物都在疲惫不堪的世界上黯然失色——坏老头了。

‘Monseigneur has never recovered the shock of that night, never,’ Monsieur Fiche whispered to Mrs. Crawley as the carriage flashed by, and she peeped out at it from behind the shrubs that hid her. ‘That was a consolation at any rate,’ Becky thought.
“大人从来没有恢复过那天晚上的震惊，从来没有。”当马车一闪而过时，费什先生对克劳利夫人低声说道，克劳利夫人从隐藏着她的灌木丛后面向外张望。 “无论如何，这都是一种安慰，”贝基想。

Whether my lord really had murderous intentions towards Mrs. Becky as Monsieur Fiche said (since Monseigneur’s death he has returned to his native country, where he lives much respected, and has purchased from his Prince the title of Baron Ficci), and the factotum objected to have to do with assassination; or whether he simply had a commission to frighten Mrs. Crawley out of a city where his Lordship proposed to pass the winter, and the sight of her would be eminently disagreeable to the great nobleman, is a point which has never been ascertained: but the threat had its effect upon the little woman, and she sought no more to intrude herself upon the presence of her old patron.
陛下是否真的像费奇先生所说的那样，对贝基夫人怀有谋杀意图（自从大人死后，他就回到了自己的祖国，在那里他过着受人尊敬的生活，并从王子那里购买了费奇男爵的头衔），而杂役则表示反对与暗杀有关；或者他是否只是受命将克劳利夫人吓出一座勋爵打算过冬的城市，而这位伟大的贵族一看到她就会非常不舒服，这是一个从未确定的点：但威胁对这个小女人产生了影响，她不再试图打扰她的老赞助人在场。

Everybody knows the melancholy end of that nobleman, which befell at Naples two months after the French Revolution of 1830; when the Most Honourable George Gustavus, Marquis of Steyne, Earl of Gaunt and of Gaunt Castle, in the Peerage of Ireland, Viscount Hellborough, Baron Pitchley and Grillsby, a Knight of the Most Noble Order of the Garter, of the Golden Fleece of Spain, of the Russian Order of Saint Nicholas of the First Class, of the Turkish Order of the Crescent, First Lord of the Powder Closet and Groom of the Back Stairs, Colonel of the Gaunt or Regent’s Own Regiment of Militia, a Trustee of the British Museum, an Elder Brother of the Trinity House, a Governor of the White Friars, and D.C.L.—died after a series of fits brought on, as the papers said, by the shock occasioned to his lordship’s sensibilities by the downfall of the ancient French monarchy.
每个人都知道这位贵族的悲惨结局，他在那不勒斯于 1830 年法国大革命两个月后降临。当尊敬的乔治·古斯塔夫，斯泰因侯爵，冈特伯爵和冈特城堡伯爵，爱尔兰贵族，赫尔伯勒子爵，皮奇利男爵和西班牙金羊毛嘉德勋章骑士格里斯比俄罗斯一级圣尼古拉勋章、土耳其新月勋章、第一化妆室勋爵和后楼梯马夫、憔悴或摄政王自己的民兵团上校、英国受托人博物馆，三一学院的长兄，白修道会的总督，以及D.C.L.——正如报纸所说，古代法国君主政体的垮台对勋爵的情感造成的震惊引起了一系列的发作后去世。 。

An eloquent catalogue appeared in a weekly print, describing his virtues, his magnificence, his talents, and his good actions. His sensibility, his attachment to the illustrious House of Bourbon, with which he claimed an alliance, were such that he could not survive the misfortunes of his august kinsmen. His body was buried at Naples, and his heart—that heart which always beat with every generous and noble emotion was brought back to Castle Gaunt in a silver urn. ‘In him,’ Mr. Wagg said, ‘the poor and the Fine Arts have lost a beneficent patron, society one of its most brilliant ornaments, and England one of her loftiest patriots and statesmen,’ &c., &c.
周刊刊登了一份雄辩的目录，描述了他的美德、他的辉煌、他的才能和他的善行。他的敏感，他对著名的波旁王朝的依恋（他声称与波旁王朝结盟）使得他无法从他尊贵的亲戚的不幸中幸存下来。他的遗体被埋葬在那不勒斯，而他的心——那颗总是伴随着慷慨而高贵的情感而跳动的心，被装在一个银瓮里带回冈特城堡。瓦格先生说，“在他身上，穷人和美术失去了一位仁慈的赞助人，社会失去了最辉煌的装饰品之一，英国失去了最崇高的爱国者和政治家之一，”等等。

His will was a good deal disputed, and an attempt was made to force from Madame de Belladonna the celebrated jewel called the ‘Jew’seye’ diamond, which his lordship always wore on his forefinger, and which it was said that she removed from it after his lamented demise. But his confidential friend and attendant, Monsieur Fiche proved that the ring had been presented to the said Madame de Belladonna two days before the Marquis’s death, as were the banknotes, jewels, Neapolitan and French bonds, &c., found in his lordship’s secretaire and claimed by his heirs from that injured woman.
他的遗嘱引起了很大的争议，有人试图从贝拉多娜夫人那里强行夺取被称为“犹太眼”钻石的著名珠宝，勋爵大人总是把这颗钻石戴在食指上，据说她把它从上面取下来了。在他悲痛地去世后。但他的密友兼侍从菲什先生证明，这枚戒指是在侯爵去世前两天送给贝拉多娜夫人的，还有在伯爵领事秘书和私人秘书中发现的钞票、珠宝、那不勒斯和法国债券等。他的继承人从那个受伤的女人那里认领了。

Chapter LXV
第六十五章


Full of Business and Pleasure
充满商务与乐趣

The day after the meeting at the play-table, Jos had himself arrayed with unusual care and splendour, and without thinking it necessary to say a word to any member of his family regarding the occurrences of the previous night, or asking for their company in his walk, he sallied forth at an early hour, and was presently seen making inquiries at the door of the Elephant Hotel. In consequence of the fetes the house was full of company, the tables in the street were already surrounded by persons smoking and drinking the national small-beer, the public rooms were in a cloud of smoke, and Mr. Jos having, in his pompous way, and with his clumsy German, made inquiries for the person of whom he was in search, was directed to the very top of the house, above the first-floor rooms where some travelling pedlars had lived, and were exhibiting their jewellery and brocades; above the second-floor apartments occupied by the etat major of the gambling firm; above the third-floor rooms, tenanted by the band of renowned Bohemian vaulters and tumblers; and so on to the little cabins of the roof, where, among students, bagmen, small tradesmen, and country-folks come in for the festival, Becky had found a little nest—as dirty a little refuge as ever beauty lay hid in.
游戏桌见面后的第二天，乔斯把自己打扮得异常谨慎和华丽，他认为没有必要向他的任何家人就前一天晚上发生的事情说一句话，也没有要求他们陪伴在家里。步行途中，他一大早就出发了，不久就有人看到他在大象旅馆门口询问。庆祝活动结束后，家里挤满了人，街上的桌子周围已经围满了抽烟、喝国产小啤酒的人，公共房间里烟雾缭绕，乔斯先生在他的浮夸中他用他笨拙的德语询问了他要找的人，被引导到房子的最顶层，在一楼房间的上方，那里住着一些旅行小贩，正在展示他们的珠宝和锦缎。 ;赌博公司主管占用的二楼公寓上方；三楼的房间上方，住着著名的波西米亚跳马和翻滚运动员乐队；贝基在屋顶上的小木屋里找到了一个小巢，里面有学生、推销员、小商人和乡下人来参加节日，贝基找到了一个小巢——一个肮脏的小避难所，就像美丽的藏身之处一样。

Becky liked the life. She was at home with everybody in the place, pedlars, punters, tumblers, students and all. She was of a wild, roving nature, inherited from father and mother, who were both Bohemians, by taste and circumstance; if a lord was not by, she would talk to his courier with the greatest pleasure; the din, the stir, the drink, the smoke, the tattle of the Hebrew pedlars, the solemn, braggart ways of the poor tumblers, the sournois talk of the gambling-table officials, the songs and swagger of the students, and the general buzz and hum of the place had pleased and tickled the little woman, even when her luck was down and she had not wherewithal to pay her bill. How pleasant was all the bustle to her now that her purse was full of the money which little Georgy had won for her the night before!
贝基喜欢这样的生活。她对这里的每个人都感到宾至如归，小贩、赌客、酒鬼、学生等等。她的父母都是波西米亚人，无论是品味还是环境，都遗传了她狂野、流浪的天性。如果领主不在，她会非常高兴地和他的信使交谈。希伯来小贩的喧闹、骚动、酒水、烟雾、闲言碎语，可怜的酒鬼的庄严、吹牛的方式，赌桌官员的酸话，学生和将军的歌声和昂首阔步这个地方的嗡嗡声和嗡嗡声让这个小女人感到高兴和发痒，即使她的运气不好，她没有足够的钱来支付账单。现在她的钱包里装满了小乔治前一天晚上为她赢得的钱，所有的忙碌对她来说是多么令人愉快！

As Jos came creaking and puffing up the final stairs, and was speechless when he got to the landing, and began to wipe his face and then to look for No. 92, the room where he was directed to seek for the person he wanted, the door of the opposite chamber, No. 90, was open, and a student, in jack-boots and a dirty schlafrock, was lying on the bed smoking a long pipe; whilst another student in long yellow hair and a braided coat, exceeding smart and dirty too, was actually on his knees at No. 92, bawling through the keyhole supplications to the person within.
当乔斯嘎吱嘎吱、气喘吁吁地走上最后的楼梯，到达楼梯平台时，他说不出话来，开始擦脸，然后寻找 92 号房间，他被指示去那个房间寻找他想要的人，对面的90号房间的门开着，一个学生穿着长筒靴，穿着脏兮兮的黑麻布，躺在床上抽着长长的烟斗。而另一个一头黄色长发，穿着辫子外套，聪明又肮脏的学生，居然跪在92号，隔着锁孔向里面的人哀求。

‘Go away,’ said a well-known voice, which made Jos thrill, ‘I expect somebody; I expect my grandpapa. He mustn’t see you there.’
“走开，”一个熟悉的声音说道，这让乔斯兴奋不已，“我在等人，快来吧！”我期待着我的爷爷。他一定不能在那儿看到你。”

‘Angel Englanderinn!’ bellowed the kneeling student with the whitybrown ringlets and the large finger-ring, ‘do take compassion upon us. Make an appointment. Dine with me and Fritz at the inn in the park. We will have roast pheasants and porter, plum-pudding and French wine. We shall die if you don’t.’
“天使英格兰！”跪着的学生喊道，戴着白棕色的卷发和大戒指，“请怜悯我们。”预约。和我和弗里茨一起在公园里的旅馆吃饭。我们将有烤野鸡和黑啤酒、李子布丁和法国葡萄酒。如果你不这样做，我们就会死。

‘That we will,’ said the young nobleman on the bed; and this colloquy Jos overheard, though he did not comprehend it, for the reason that he had never studied the language in which it was carried on.
“我们会的，”床上的年轻贵族说道。乔斯无意中听到了这段对话，尽管他无法理解，因为他从未研究过对话所用的语言。

‘Newmero kattervang dooze, si vous plait,’ Jos said in his grandest manner, when he was able to speak.
“Newmero kattervang dooze，si vous plait，”当乔斯能够说话时，他以最庄严的方式说道。

‘Quater fang tooce!’ said the student, starting up, and he bounced into his own room, where he locked the door, and where Jos heard him laughing with his comrade on the bed.
“四方牙也！”学生说着，惊跳起来，然后他跳进了自己的房间，锁上了门，乔斯听到他和床上的战友一起大笑。

The gentleman from Bengal was standing, disconcerted by this incident, when the door of the 92 opened of itself and Becky’s little head peeped out full of archness and mischief. She lighted on Jos. ‘It’s you,’ she said, coming out. ‘How I have been waiting for you! Stop! not yet—in one minute you shall come in.’ In that instant she put a rouge-pot, a brandy bottle, and a plate of broken meat into the bed, gave one smooth to her hair, and finally let in her visitor.
这位来自孟加拉的绅士正站着，对这件事感到不知所措，这时 92 号车的门自动打开了，贝基的小脑袋探了出来，充满了调皮和恶作剧。她把目光投向乔斯。“是你，”她说着走了出来。 ‘我一直在等你啊！停止！还没有——一分钟后你就进来了。”就在那一瞬间，她把一个胭脂罐、一个白兰地酒瓶和一盘碎肉放进了床上，捋了捋头发，终于让客人进来了。

She had, by way of morning robe, a pink domino, a trifle faded and soiled, and marked here and there with pomaturn; but her arms shone out from the loose sleeves of the dress very white and fair, and it was tied round her little waist so as not ill to set off the trim little figure of the wearer. She led Jos by the hand into her garret. ‘Come in,’ she said. ‘Come and talk to me. Sit yonder on the chair”; and she gave the civilian’s hand a little squeeze and laughingly placed him upon it. As for herself, she placed herself on the bed—not on the bottle and plate, you may be sure—on which Jos might have reposed, had he chosen that seat; and so there she sat and talked with her old admirer. ‘How little years have changed you,’ she said with a look of tender interest. ‘I should have known you anywhere. What a comfort it is amongst strangers to see once more the frank honest face of an old friend!’
她穿的晨袍是一块粉红色的多米诺骨牌，一件褪了色、弄脏了的小玩意儿，到处都标有“波马图恩”字样。但她的手臂从裙子的宽松袖子里伸出来，显得非常白皙，白皙，裙子系在她的小腰上，以免衬托出穿着者苗条的身材。她牵着乔斯的手走进她的阁楼。 “进来吧，”她说。 ‘过来跟我说话吧。坐在那边的椅子上”；她轻轻捏了一下平民的手，笑着把他放在手上。至于她自己，她把自己放在床上——你可以肯定，不是瓶子和盘子上——如果乔斯选择了那个座位，他可能会躺在上面；但他却把自己放在了床上。于是她坐在那里与她的老崇拜者交谈。 “岁月对你的改变是多么小啊，”她带着温柔的兴趣说道。 ‘我应该在任何地方都认识你。在陌生人中再次看到老朋友坦率诚实的面孔是多么令人欣慰啊！

The frank honest face, to tell the truth, at this moment bore any expression but one of openness and honesty: it was, on the contrary, much perturbed and puzzled in look. Jos was surveying the queer little apartment in which he found his old flame. One of her gowns hung over the bed, another depending from a hook of the door; her bonnet obscured half the looking-glass, on which, too, lay the prettiest little pair of bronze boots; a French novel was on the table by the bedside, with a candle, not of wax. Becky thought of popping that into the bed too, but she only put in the little paper night-cap with which she had put the candle out on going to sleep.
那张坦率诚实的脸上，说实话，此刻除了坦诚之外，没有任何表情：相反，神情显得十分不安和困惑。乔斯正在巡视那间奇怪的小公寓，他在那里找到了他的旧情人。她的一件长袍挂在床上，另一件挂在门钩上。她的帽子遮住了镜子的一半，镜子上还放着一双最漂亮的小青铜靴子。床边的桌子上放着一本法国小说，里面放着一支蜡烛，不是蜡。贝基也想把它放到床上，但她只把睡觉时用来熄灭蜡烛的小纸睡帽放进去。

‘I should have known you anywhere,’ she continued; ‘a woman never forgets some things. And you were the first man I ever—I ever saw.’
“我应该在任何地方都认识你，”她继续说道。 “女人永远不会忘记一些事情。你是我见过的第一个男人。

‘Was I really?’ said Jos. ‘God bless my soul, you—you don’t say so.’
“我真的是这样吗？”乔斯说，“上帝保佑我的灵魂，你——你可没这么说。”

‘When I came with your sister from Chiswick, I was scarcely more than a child,’ Becky said. ‘How is that, dear love? Oh, her husband was a sad wicked man, and of course it was of me that the poor dear was jealous. As if I cared about him, heigho! when there was somebody—but no—don’t let us talk of old times”; and she passed her handkerchief with the tattered lace across her eyelids.
“当我和你姐姐从奇西克来的时候，我还只是个孩子，”贝基说。 ‘怎么样，亲爱的？哦，她的丈夫是个可悲的恶人，当然，可怜的亲爱的嫉妒的是我。好像我很关心他一样，嘿嘿！当有人——但没有——的时候，不要让我们谈论旧时光”；她把带有破烂花边的手帕递到眼睑上。

‘Is not this a strange place,’ she continued, ‘for a woman, who has lived in a very different world too, to be found in? I have had so many griefs and wrongs, Joseph Sedley; I have been made to suffer so cruelly that I am almost made mad sometimes. I can’t stay still in any place, but wander about always restless and unhappy. All my friends have been false to me—all. There is no such thing as an honest man in the world. I was the truest wife that ever lived, though I married my husband out of pique, because somebody else—but never mind that. I was true, and he trampled upon me and deserted me. I was the fondest mother. I had but one child, one darling, one hope, one joy, which I held to my heart with a mother’s affection, which was my life, my prayer, my—my blessing; and they— they tore it from me—tore it from me”; and she put her hand to her heart with a passionate gesture of despair, burying her face for a moment on the bed.
“对于一个也生活在一个完全不同的世界的女人来说，这不是一个奇怪的地方吗？”她继续说道。我经历过很多悲伤和委屈，约瑟夫·塞德利；我遭受了如此残酷的痛苦，有时我几乎要发疯了。我在任何地方都无法保持静止，总是四处游荡，焦躁不安。我所有的朋友都对我不诚实——全部。世界上没有诚实的人。我是有史以来最真诚的妻子，尽管我嫁给我的丈夫是出于愤怒，因为别人——但别介意。我是真心的，他却践踏了我，抛弃了我。我是最慈爱的母亲。我只有一个孩子，一个亲爱的，一个希望，一种快乐，我以母亲的慈爱将它们牢记在心，这是我的生命，我的祈祷，我的——我的祝福；他们——他们把它从我身上夺走了——把它从我身上夺走了”；她把手放在心口上，做出一种充满激情的绝望动作，把脸埋在床上一会儿。

The brandy-bottle inside clinked up against the plate which held the cold sausage. Both were moved, no doubt, by the exhibition of so much grief. Max and Fritz were at the door, listening with wonder to Mrs. Becky’s sobs and cries. Jos, too, was a good deal frightened and affected at seeing his old flame in this condition. And she began, forthwith, to tell her story—a tale so neat, simple, and artless that it was quite evident from hearing her that if ever there was a white-robed angel escaped from heaven to be subject to the infernal machinations and villainy of fiends here below, that spotless being—that miserable unsullied martyr, was present on the bed before Jos—on the bed, sitting on the brandy-bottle.
里面的白兰地酒瓶撞在盛着冷香肠的盘子上，发出叮当作响的声音。毫无疑问，两人都被如此悲伤的表现所感动。马克斯和弗里茨站在门口，惊奇地听着贝基夫人的抽泣和哭泣。乔斯看到他的旧情人处于这种状态，也感到非常害怕和感动。她立即​​开始讲述她的故事——这个故事是如此简洁、简单和天真，从她的讲述中可以明显看出，如果有一个白袍天使从天堂逃脱，遭受地狱的阴谋和邪恶的侵害。在下面的恶魔中，那个一尘不染的存在——那个悲惨的、未被玷污的烈士，出现在乔斯面前的床上——床上，坐在白兰地酒瓶上。

They had a very long, amicable, and confidential talk there, in the course of which Jos Sedley was somehow made aware (but in a manner that did not in the least scare or offend him) that Becky’s heart had first learned to beat at his enchanting presence; that George Osborne had certainly paid an unjustifiable court to HER, which might account for Amelia’s jealousy and their little rupture; but that Becky never gave the least encouragement to the unfortunate officer, and that she had never ceased to think about Jos from the very first day she had seen him, though, of course, her duties as a married woman were paramount—duties which she had always preserved, and would, to her dying day, or until the proverbially bad climate in which Colonel Crawley was living should release her from a yoke which his cruelty had rendered odious to her.
他们在那里进行了一次很长的、友好的、保密的谈话，在谈话过程中，乔斯·塞德利以某种方式意识到（但以一种丝毫没有吓到或冒犯他的方式）贝基的心第一次学会了在他的心脏上跳动。迷人的存在；乔治·奥斯本肯定对她付出了不合理的代价，这可能是阿米莉亚的嫉妒和他们小小的破裂的原因；但贝基从未给过这位不幸的军官半点鼓励，从见到乔斯的第一天起，她就从未停止过对乔斯的思念，当然，她作为已婚妇女的职责是最重要的——她的职责是她的职责。一直到她临死的那一天，或者直到克劳利上校生活的众所周知的恶劣气候将她从他的残忍行为使她憎恶的枷锁中解放出来之前，她都会一直保存下来。

Jos went away, convinced that she was the most virtuous, as she was one of the most fascinating of women, and revolving in his mind all sorts of benevolent schemes for her welfare. Her persecutions ought to be ended: she ought to return to the society of which she was an ornament. He would see what ought to be done. She must quit that place and take a quiet lodging. Amelia must come and see her and befriend her. He would go and settle about it, and consult with the Major. She wept tears of heart-felt gratitude as she parted from him, and pressed his hand as the gallant stout gentleman stooped down to kiss hers.
乔斯离开时，坚信她是最有道德的，因为她是最迷人的女人之一，并在他的脑海中盘旋着各种为她谋福利的仁慈计划。她的迫害应该结束：她应该回到她作为装饰品的社会。他会看看应该做什么。她必须离开那个地方，找个安静的住处。阿米莉亚必须来看望她并与她成为朋友。他会去解决这件事，并与少校商量。当她与他分开时，她流下了衷心感激的泪水，当这位英勇的粗壮绅士弯下腰亲吻她的手时，她握紧了他的手。

So Becky bowed Jos out of her little garret with as much grace as if it was a palace of which she did the honours; and that heavy gentleman having disappeared down the stairs, Max and Fritz came out of their hole, pipe in mouth, and she amused herself by mimicking Jos to them as she munched her cold bread and sausage and took draughts of her favourite brandy-and-water.
于是，贝基优雅地把乔斯从她的小阁楼里鞠了一躬，仿佛这是一座她所尊敬的宫殿。那位身材魁梧的绅士消失在楼梯下，马克斯和弗里茨从洞里出来，嘴里叼着烟斗，她一边嚼着冷面包和香肠，一边喝着她最喜欢的白兰地和——水。

Jos walked over to Dobbin’s lodgings with great solemnity and there imparted to him the affecting history with which he had just been made acquainted, without, however, mentioning the play business of the night before. And the two gentlemen were laying their heads together and consulting as to the best means of being useful to Mrs. Becky, while she was finishing her interrupted dejeuner a la fourchette.
乔斯非常严肃地走到多宾的住处，在那里向他讲述了他刚刚熟悉的感人的历史，但没有提及前一天晚上的戏剧事务。当贝基夫人正在完成她被打断的晚餐时，两位先生正在商量如何为贝基夫人提供帮助。

How was it that she had come to that little town? How was it that she had no friends and was wandering about alone? Little boys at school are taught in their earliest Latin book that the path of Avernus is very easy of descent. Let us skip over the interval in the history of her downward progress. She was not worse now than she had been in the days of her prosperity—only a little down on her luck.
她怎么会来到那个小镇？她怎么没有朋友，孤身一人流浪？学校里的小男孩在他们最早的拉丁语书中就被教导说，通往阿弗纳斯的道路很容易下降。让我们跳过她历史上的下滑时期。她现在的情况并不比她在繁荣时期更差——只是她的运气稍微差了一点。

As for Mrs. Amelia, she was a woman of such a soft and foolish disposition that when she heard of anybody unhappy, her heart straightway melted towards the sufferer; and as she had never thought or done anything mortally guilty herself, she had not that abhorrence for wickedness which distinguishes moralists much more knowing. If she spoiled everybody who came near her with kindness and compliments—if she begged pardon of all her servants for troubling them to answer the bell—if she apologized to a shopboy who showed her a piece of silk, or made a curtsey to a streetsweeper with a complimentary remark upon the elegant state of his crossing—and she was almost capable of every one of these follies— the notion that an old acquaintance was miserable was sure to soften her heart; nor would she hear of anybody’s being deservedly unhappy. A world under such legislation as hers would not be a very orderly place of abode; but there are not many women, at least not of the rulers, who are of her sort. This lady, I believe, would have abolished all gaols, punishments, handcuffs, whippings, poverty, sickness, hunger, in the world, and was such a mean-spirited creature that—we are obliged to confess it—she could even forget a mortal injury.
至于阿米莉亚夫人，她是一个性情如此软弱和愚蠢的女人，当她听到有人不开心时，她的心立刻融化在受苦者身上；由于她自己从未想过或做过任何致命的罪过，所以她对邪恶的憎恶并不像道德家那样深恶痛绝。如果她用善意和赞美宠坏了每一个靠近她的人——如果她请求所有仆人原谅他们打扰他们应门铃——如果她向一个给她展示一块丝绸的店员道歉，或者向一个扫街的人行屈膝礼她对他渡过的优雅状态赞叹不已——她几乎能干出每一件蠢事——一想到老熟人很悲惨，她的心肯定会软化。她也不会听到任何人应得的不快乐。在她这样的立法下，世界不会是一个非常有秩序的居住地；但像她这样的女性并不多，至少在统治者中是这样。我相信这位女士会废除世界上所有的监狱、惩罚、手铐、鞭打、贫穷、疾病、饥饿，她是一个如此卑鄙的人——我们不得不承认这一点——她甚至会忘记一个人致命伤害。

When the Major heard from Jos of the sentimental adventure which had just befallen the latter, he was not, it must be owned, nearly as much interested as the gentleman from Bengal. On the contrary, his excitement was quite the reverse from a pleasurable one; he made use of a brief but improper expression regarding a poor woman in distress, saying, in fact, ‘The little minx, has she come to light again?’ He never had had the slightest liking for her, but had heartily mistrusted her from the very first moment when her green eyes had looked at, and turned away from, his own.
当少校从乔斯那里听说他刚刚经历的感伤冒险时，他必须承认，他几乎没有孟加拉绅士那么感兴趣。相反，他的兴奋与愉悦完全相反。他对一个落难的可怜女人用了一个简短但不恰当的表达方式，实际上是在说：“这个小女人，她又暴露了吗？”他从来没有对她有过丝毫的好感，而是从心底里不信任她。当她的绿眼睛第一次看到他的眼睛，然后又转开的那一刻。

‘That little devil brings mischief wherever she goes,’ the Major said disrespectfully. ‘Who knows what sort of life she has been leading? And what business has she here abroad and alone? Don’t tell me about persecutors and enemies; an honest woman always has friends and never is separated from her family. Why has she left her husband? He may have been disreputable and wicked, as you say. He always was. I remember the confounded blackleg and the way in which he used to cheat and hoodwink poor George. Wasn’t there a scandal about their separation? I think I heard something,’ cried out Major Dobbin, who did not care much about gossip, and whom Jos tried in vain to convince that Mrs. Becky was in all respects a most injured and virtuous female.
“那个小鬼，走到哪里就带来坏事。”少校不敬地说道。 ‘谁知道她过着怎样的生活呢？她一个人在国外有什么事呢？不要告诉我有关迫害者和敌人的事；诚实的女人永远有朋友，永远不与家人分离。她为何离开丈夫？正如你所说，他可能是声名狼藉且邪恶的。他一直都是。我记得那个令人困惑的黑腿，以及他用来欺骗和欺骗可怜的乔治的方式。他们不是闹出了分手的绯闻吗？ “我想我听到了一些东西。”多宾少校喊道，他不太关心流言蜚语，乔斯徒劳地试图让他相信贝基夫人在各方面都是一位最受伤、最善良的女性。

‘Well, well; let’s ask Mrs. George,’ said that arch-diplomatist of a Major. ‘Only let us go and consult her. I suppose you will allow that she is a good judge at any rate, and knows what is right in such matters.’
'好吧; “我们去问问乔治夫人吧，”少校的首席外交官说道。 ‘让我们去咨询一下她吧。我想你会承认她无论如何都是一个好的判断者，并且知道在这些事情上什么是正确的。

‘Hm! Emmy is very well,’ said Jos, who did not happen to be in love with his sister.
‘嗯！艾美很好，”乔斯说，他碰巧并不爱他的妹妹。

‘Very well? By Gad, sir, she’s the finest lady I ever met in my life,’ bounced out the Major. ‘I say at once, let us go and ask her if this woman ought to be visited or not—I will be content with her verdict.’ Now this odious, artful rogue of a Major was thinking in his own mind that he was sure of his case. Emmy, he remembered, was at one time cruelly and deservedly jealous of Rebecca, never mentioned her name but with a shrinking and terror—a jealous woman never forgives, thought Dobbin: and so the pair went across the street to Mrs. George’s house, where she was contentedly warbling at a music lesson with Madame Strumpff.
'很好？上帝啊，先生，她是我一生中遇到过的最优秀的女士。”少校大声说道。 “我说，我们立刻去问问她是否应该去拜访这个女人——我会对她的决定感到满意。”现在这个可恶的、狡猾的流氓少校在心里想，他确定他的案件。他记得，艾美一度对丽贝卡怀着残酷而当之无愧的嫉妒，从来没有提到过她的名字，只是带着一种畏缩和恐惧——一个嫉妒的女人永远不会原谅，多宾想：于是两人穿过街道来到乔治太太家，她在斯特朗普夫夫人的音乐课上心满意足地哼唱着。

When that lady took her leave, Jos opened the business with his usual pomp of words. ‘Amelia, my dear,’ said he, ‘I have just had the most extraordinary—yes—God bless my soul! the most extraordinary adventure—an old friend—yes, a most interesting old friend of yours, and I may say in old times, has just arrived here, and I should like you to see her.’
那位女士离开后，乔斯用他一贯的豪言壮语开始了生意。 “阿米莉亚，亲爱的，”他说，“我刚刚经历了最非凡的——是的——上帝保佑我的灵魂！最非凡的冒险——一位老朋友——是的，你的一位最有趣的老朋友，我可以说是在过去，刚刚到达这里，我希望你能见到她。

‘Her!’ said Amelia, ‘who is it? Major Dobbin, if you please not to break my scissors.’ The Major was twirling them round by the little chain from which they sometimes hung to their lady’s waist, and was thereby endangering his own eye.
“她！”阿米莉亚说，“是谁？多宾少校，请不要弄断我的剪刀。”少校用小链子把它们旋转起来，有时它们会挂在女士的腰上，从而危及自己的眼睛。

It is a woman whom I dislike very much,’ said the Major, doggedly, ‘and whom you have no cause to love.’
这是一个我非常不喜欢的女人，”少校固执地说，“你没有理由爱她。”

‘It is Rebecca, I’m sure it is Rebecca,’ Amelia said, blushing and being very much agitated.
“是丽贝卡，我确信是丽贝卡，”阿米莉亚脸红了，非常激动。

‘You are right; you always are,’ Dobbin answered. Brussels, Waterloo, old, old times, griefs, pangs, remembrances, rushed back into Amelia’s gentle heart and caused a cruel agitation there.
'你是对的; “你一直都是这样，”多宾回答道。布鲁塞尔，滑铁卢，旧时光，悲伤，痛苦，回忆，涌回阿米莉亚温柔的心，在那里引起残酷的躁动。

‘Don’t let me see her,’ Emmy continued. ‘I couldn’t see her.’
“别让我看到她，”艾美继续说道。 “我看不见她。”

‘I told you so,’ Dobbin said to Jos.
“我告诉过你了，”多宾对乔斯说。

‘She is very unhappy, and—and that sort of thing,’ Jos urged. ‘She is very poor and unprotected, and has been ill—exceedingly ill—and that scoundrel of a husband has deserted her.’
“她非常不高兴，而且——诸如此类的事情，”乔斯催促道。 “她非常贫穷，没有受到保护，而且还病了——病得很重——那个恶棍丈夫抛弃了她。”

‘Ah!’ said Amelia
“啊！”阿米莉亚说

‘She hasn’t a friend in the world,’ Jos went on, not undexterously, ‘and she said she thought she might trust in you. She’s so miserable, Emmy. She has been almost mad with grief. Her story quite affected me—‘pon my word and honour, it did—never was such a cruel persecution borne so angelically, I may say. Her family has been most cruel to her.’
“她在这个世界上没有朋友，”乔斯毫不迟疑地继续说道，“她说她认为她可以信任你。她太悲惨了，艾美。她已经悲伤得几乎发疯了。她的故事对我影响很大——“以我的名誉担保，确实如此——我可以说，从来没有像天使一样承受过如此残酷的迫害。”她的家人对她非常残忍。

‘Poor creature!’ Amelia said.
“可怜的人！”阿米莉亚说。

‘And if she can get no friend, she says she thinks she’ll die,’ Jos proceeded in a low tremulous voice. ‘God bless my soul! do you know that she tried to kill herself? She carries laudanum with her— I saw the bottle in her room—such a miserable little room—at a third-rate house, the Elephant, up in the roof at the top of all. I went there.’
“如果她找不到朋友，她说她觉得自己会死，”乔斯用低沉而颤抖的声音继续说道。 ‘上帝保佑我的灵魂！你知道她试图自杀吗？她随身带着鸦片酊——我在她的房间里看到了那个瓶子——真是一个简陋的小房间——在一栋三流的房子里，大象，在最高层的屋顶上。我去了那儿。'

This did not seem to affect Emmy. She even smiled a little. Perhaps she figured Jos to herself panting up the stair.
这似乎并没有影响艾美奖。她甚至还微微一笑。或许她以为乔斯正气喘吁吁地走上楼梯。

‘She’s beside herself with grief,’ he resumed. ‘The agonies that woman has endured are quite frightful to hear of. She had a little boy, of the same age as Georgy.’
“她悲痛欲绝，”他继续说道。 ‘女人所承受的痛苦听上去非常可怕。她有一个小男孩，和乔治同龄。

‘Yes, yes, I think I remember,’ Emmy remarked. ‘Well?’
“是的，是的，我想我记得，”艾美说。 '出色地？'

‘The most beautiful child ever seen,’ Jos said, who was very fat, and easily moved, and had been touched by the story Becky told; ‘a perfect angel, who adored his mother. The ruffians tore him shrieking out of her arms, and have never allowed him to see her.’
“这是我见过的最漂亮的孩子，”乔斯说，他很胖，很容易感动，并且被贝基讲的故事感动了。 “一个完美的天使，崇拜他的母亲。恶棍们尖叫着把他从她怀里拽了出来，而且从来不让他见她。

‘Dear Joseph,’ Emmy cried out, starting up at once, ‘let us go and see her this minute.’ And she ran into her adjoining bedchamber, tied on her bonnet in a flutter, came out with her shawl on her arm, and ordered Dobbin to follow.
“亲爱的约瑟夫，”艾美立刻站了起来，喊道，“我们现在就去看看她吧。”她跑进了隔壁的卧室，帽子上的帽子随风飘动，出来时胳膊上还搭着围巾，并命令多宾跟随。

He went and put her shawl—it was a white cashmere, consigned to her by the Major himself from India—over her shoulders. He saw there was nothing for it but to obey, and she put her hand into his arm, and they went away.
他走过去，把她的披肩——那是一条白色的羊绒披肩，是少校亲自从印度送给她的——披在她的肩上。他看到除了服从之外别无他法，她把手伸进他的胳膊里，然后他们就走了。

‘It is number 92, up four pair of stairs,’ Jos said, perhaps not very willing to ascend the steps again; but he placed himself in the window of his drawing-room, which commands the place on which the Elephant stands, and saw the pair marching through the market.
“这是 92 号，爬四对楼梯，”乔斯说，也许不太愿意再次登上台阶；但他站在客厅的窗户里，看到大象所在的地方，看到这两个人正穿过市场。

It was as well that Becky saw them too from her garret, for she and the two students were chattering and laughing there; they had been joking about the appearance of Becky’s grandpapa—whose arrival and departure they had witnessed—but she had time to dismiss them, and have her little room clear before the landlord of the Elephant, who knew that Mrs. Osborne was a great favourite at the Serene Court, and respected her accordingly, led the way up the stairs to the roof story, encouraging Miladi and the Herr Major as they achieved the ascent.
幸亏贝基也在她的阁楼上看到了他们，因为她和那两个学生正在那里有说有笑。他们一直在拿贝基爷爷的出现开玩笑——他们目睹了他的到来和离开——但她有时间打发他们走，并在大象的房东面前清理出她的小房间，而大象的房东知道奥斯本夫人是最受欢迎的人。在宁静宫廷里，并相应地尊重她，带路上楼梯到屋顶层，鼓励米拉迪和少校先生登上楼梯。

‘Gracious lady, gracious lady!’ said the landlord, knocking at Becky’s door; he had called her Madame the day before, and was by no means courteous to her.
“亲切的女士，亲切的女士！”房东敲着贝基的门说道。前一天他还称她为“夫人”，对她一点也不客气。

‘Who is it?’ Becky said, putting out her head, and she gave a little scream. There stood Emmy in a tremble, and Dobbin, the tall Major, with his cane.
“是谁？”贝基伸出头问道，并发出一声轻微的尖叫。艾美浑身颤抖地站在那里，高个子少校多宾拄着拐杖。

He stood still watching, and very much interested at the scene; but Emmy sprang forward with open arms towards Rebecca, and forgave her at that moment, and embraced her and kissed her with all her heart. Ah, poor wretch, when was your lip pressed before by such pure kisses?
他静静地站着观看，对这一幕很感兴趣。但艾米向丽贝卡张开双臂，在那一刻原谅了她，全心全意地拥抱她、亲吻她。啊，可怜的家伙，你的嘴唇什么时候被如此纯洁的吻压过？

Chapter LXVI
第六十六章


Amantium Irae
金刚砂

Frankness and kindness like Amelia’s were likely to touch even such a hardened little reprobate as Becky. She returned Emmy’s caresses and kind speeches with something very like gratitude, and an emotion which, if it was not lasting, for a moment was almost genuine. That was a lucky stroke of hers about the child ‘torn from her arms shrieking.’ It was by that harrowing misfortune that Becky had won her friend back, and it was one of the very first points, we may be certain, upon which our poor simple little Emmy began to talk to her new-found acquaintance.
像阿米莉亚这样的坦率和善良，即使是像贝基这样铁石心肠的小恶棍，也可能会感动。她以一种非常类似感激的态度来回应艾美的爱抚和善意的演讲，以及一种即使不是持久的情感，也有那么一刻几乎是真诚的。对于那个“尖叫着从她怀里被夺走的孩子”，这是她的一次幸运之举。正是通过这次令人痛心的不幸，贝基赢回了她的朋友，我们可以肯定，这是我们的首要观点之一。可怜单纯的小艾美开始和她的新认识的人说话。

‘And so they took your darling child from you?’ our simpleton cried out. ‘Oh, Rebecca, my poor dear suffering friend, I know what it is to lose a boy, and to feel for those who have lost one. But please Heaven yours will be restored to you, as a merciful merciful Providence has brought me back mine.’
“所以他们就从你身边夺走了你亲爱的孩子？”我们的傻瓜喊道。 “哦，丽贝卡，我可怜的、亲爱的、受苦受难的朋友，我知道失去一个男孩是什么感觉，也知道那些失去男孩的人的感受。但请上天，你的一切都会归还给你，就像慈悲的上帝把我带回我的一样。”

‘The child, my child? Oh, yes, my agonies were frightful,’ Becky owned, not perhaps without a twinge of conscience. It jarred upon her to be obliged to commence instantly to tell lies in reply to so much confidence and simplicity. But that is the misfortune of beginning with this kind of forgery. When one fib becomes due as it were, you must forge another to take up the old acceptance; and so the stock of your lies in circulation inevitably multiplies, and the danger of detection increases every day.
‘孩子，我的孩子？哦，是的，我的痛苦是可怕的，”贝基承认，也许不无良心的刺痛。对于如此自信和简单的回应，她不得不立即开始撒谎，这让她感到不安。但这就是从这种伪造开始的不幸。当一个谎言到期时，你必须伪造另一个谎言来接受旧的承诺。因此，流通中的谎言库存不可避免地会增加，被发现的危险也与日俱增。

‘My agonies,’ Becky continued, ‘were terrible (I hope she won’t sit down on the bottle) when they took him away from me; I thought I should die; but I fortunately had a brain fever, during which my doctor gave me up, and—and I recovered, and—and here I am, poor and friendless.’
“当他们把他从我身边带走时，”贝基继续说道，“我的痛苦是可怕的（我希望她不要坐在瓶子上）；”我以为我应该死；但幸运的是，我患了脑热症，在此期间，我的医生放弃了我，然后——我康复了，然后——而我就在这里，贫穷而没有朋友。

‘How old is he?’ Emmy asked.
“他多大了？”艾米问。

‘Eleven,’ said Becky.
“十一，”贝基说。

‘Eleven!’ cried the other. ‘Why, he was born the same year with Georgy, who is—‘
“十一点！”另一个喊道。 “哎呀，他和乔治同年出生，乔治是——”

‘I know, I know,’ Becky cried out, who had in fact quite forgotten all about little Rawdon’s age. ‘Grief has made me forget so many things, dearest Amelia. I am very much changed: half-wild sometimes. He was eleven when they took him away from me. Bless his sweet face; I have never seen it again.’
“我知道，我知道，”贝基喊道，她实际上完全忘记了小罗登的年龄。 “悲伤让我忘记了很多事情，最亲爱的阿米莉亚。我发生了很大的变化：有时是半狂野的。他们把他从我身边带走时他十一岁。祝福他甜美的脸庞；我再也没有见过它。

‘Was he fair or dark?’ went on that absurd little Emmy. ‘Show me his hair.’
“他是白人还是黑人？”那个荒唐的小艾美继续说道。 “让我看看他的头发。”

Becky almost laughed at her simplicity. ‘Not to-day, love—some other time, when my trunks arrive from Leipzig, whence I came to this place—and a little drawing of him, which I made in happy days.’
贝基几乎嘲笑她的单纯。 “今天不行，亲爱的——改天吧，当我的行李箱从莱比锡运来时，我就是从莱比锡来到这个地方的——还有我在快乐的日子里画的他的小画。”

‘Poor Becky, poor Becky!’ said Emmy. ‘How thankful, how thankful I ought to be”; (though I doubt whether that practice of piety inculcated upon us by our womankind in early youth, namely, to be thankful because we are better off than somebody else, be a very rational religious exercise) and then she began to think, as usual, how her son was the handsomest, the best, and the cleverest boy in the whole world.
“可怜的贝基，可怜的贝基！”艾美说。 ‘多么感激，我应该多么感激’； （尽管我怀疑我们女性在年轻时向我们灌输的那种虔诚的做法，即因为我们比其他人过得更好而感恩，是否是一种非常理性的宗教活动）然后她开始像往常一样思考，她的儿子是全世界最英俊、最优秀、最聪明的男孩。

‘You will see my Georgy,’ was the best thing Emmy could think of to console Becky. If anything could make her comfortable that would.
“你会看到我的乔治”是艾美能想到的安慰贝基的最好的话。如果有什么能让她舒服的话那就会了。

And so the two women continued talking for an hour or more, during which Becky had the opportunity of giving her new friend a full and complete version of her private history. She showed how her marriage with Rawdon Crawley had always been viewed by the family with feelings of the utmost hostility; how her sister-in-law (an artful woman) had poisoned her husband’s mind against her; how he had formed odious connections, which had estranged his affections from her: how she had borne everything—poverty, neglect, coldness from the being whom she most loved—and all for the sake of her child; how, finally, and by the most flagrant outrage, she had been driven into demanding a separation from her husband, when the wretch did not scruple to ask that she should sacrifice her own fair fame so that he might procure advancement through the means of a very great and powerful but unprincipled man—the Marquis of Steyne, indeed. The atrocious monster!
就这样，两个女人继续交谈了一个多小时，在此期间，贝基有机会向她的新朋友完整地讲述了她的私人历史。她表明，家人一直对她与罗登·克劳利的婚姻抱有极大的敌意。她的嫂子（一个狡猾的女人）如何毒害她丈夫的心，反对她；他如何与她建立了令人厌恶的联系，从而使他与她疏远了；她如何忍受一切——贫困、忽视、来自她最爱的人的冷漠——而这一切都是为了她的孩子；最后，由于最公然的愤怒，她被迫要求与她的丈夫分居，而这个可怜虫却毫不犹豫地要求她牺牲自己的名声，以便他可以通过某种方式获得晋升。非常伟大、有权势但没有原则的人——确实是斯泰因侯爵。凶恶的怪物！

This part of her eventful history Becky gave with the utmost feminine delicacy and the most indignant virtue. Forced to fly her husband’s roof by this insult, the coward had pursued his revenge by taking her child from her. And thus Becky said she was a wanderer, poor, unprotected, friendless, and wretched.
贝基以最女性化的细腻和最愤慨的美德讲述了她多事的历史的这一部分。由于这种侮辱，这个胆小鬼被迫逃离丈夫的屋顶，并通过从她身边夺走她的孩子来寻求报复。因此贝基说她是一个流浪者，贫穷，没有保护，没有朋友，而且可怜。

Emmy received this story, which was told at some length, as those persons who are acquainted with her character may imagine that she would. She quivered with indignation at the account of the conduct of the miserable Rawdon and the unprincipled Steyne. Her eyes made notes of admiration for every one of the sentences in which Becky described the persecutions of her aristocratic relatives and the falling away of her husband. (Becky did not abuse him. She spoke rather in sorrow than in anger. She had loved him only too fondly: and was he not the father of her boy?) And as for the separation scene from the child, while Becky was reciting it, Emmy retired altogether behind her pocket-handkerchief, so that the consummate little tragedian must have been charmed to see the effect which her performance produced on her audience.
艾美收到了这个故事，故事讲得相当长，熟悉她角色的人可能会想象她会这么做。想到可怜的罗登和毫无原则的斯泰因的行为，她气得浑身发抖。贝基描述她的贵族亲戚所受的迫害和她丈夫的背叛时，每一句话都充满钦佩。 （贝基并没有虐待他。她说话时的语气更多的是悲伤而不是愤怒。她太爱他了：他不是她儿子的父亲吗？）至于与孩子分离的场景，贝基在背诵时，艾美完全退到了她的口袋手帕后面，所以这位完美的小悲剧演员一定会被她的表演给观众带来的效果所吸引。

Whilst the ladies were carrying on their conversation, Amelia’s constant escort, the Major (who, of course, did not wish to interrupt their conference, and found himself rather tired of creaking about the narrow stair passage of which the roof brushed the nap from his hat) descended to the ground-floor of the house and into the great room common to all the frequenters of the Elephant, out of which the stair led. This apartment is always in a fume of smoke and liberally sprinkled with beer. On a dirty table stand scores of corresponding brass candlesticks with tallow candles for the lodgers, whose keys hang up in rows over the candles. Emmy had passed blushing through the room anon, where all sorts of people were collected; Tyrolese glove-sellers and Danubian linen-merchants, with their packs; students recruiting themselves with butterbrods and meat; idlers, playing cards or dominoes on the sloppy, beery tables; tumblers refreshing during the cessation of their performances—in a word, all the fumum and strepitus of a German inn in fair time. The waiter brought the Major a mug of beer, as a matter of course, and he took out a cigar and amused himself with that pernicious vegetable and a newspaper until his charge should come down to claim him.
当女士们继续谈话时，阿米莉亚不断地护送少校（当然，他不想打断她们的会议，并且发现自己对狭窄的楼梯通道吱吱作响感到相当厌倦，楼梯的屋顶擦掉了他的午睡）帽子）下降到房子的底层，进入所有大象常客共用的大房间，楼梯从房间出来。这间公寓总是烟雾弥漫，还洒满了啤酒。肮脏的桌子上放着几十个相应的黄铜烛台，上面有供房客使用的牛油蜡烛，房客的钥匙成排地挂在蜡烛上方。艾美很快红着脸穿过房间，房间里聚集着各种各样的人。提洛尔的手套小贩和多瑙河的亚麻布商人，带着他们的包裹；学生们用黄油和肉来招募自己；闲人，在肮脏的啤酒桌上打牌或多米诺骨牌；表演结束时，不倒翁们会让人耳目一新——总之，德国旅馆里的所有 fumum 和 strepitus 都在适当的时候。侍者理所当然地给少校端来了一杯啤酒，他拿出一支雪茄，用那有毒的蔬菜和一份报纸自娱自乐，直到他的负责人下来认领他。

Max and Fritz came presently downstairs, their caps on one side, their spurs jingling, their pipes splendid with coats of arms and full-blown tassels, and they hung up the key of No. 90 on the board and called for the ration of butterbrod and beer. The pair sat down by the Major and fell into a conversation of which he could not help hearing somewhat. It was mainly about ‘Fuchs’ and ‘Philister,’ and duels and drinking-bouts at the neighbouring University of Schoppenhausen, from which renowned seat of learning they had just come in the Eilwagen, with Becky, as it appeared, by their side, and in order to be present at the bridal fetes at Pumpernickel.
马克斯和弗里茨很快就下楼了，他们的帽子放在一边，马刺叮当作响，他们的烟斗上饰有徽章和成熟的流苏，他们把90号的钥匙挂在黑板上，并要求提供黄油布罗德的配给。和啤酒。两人在少校身边坐下，开始交谈，少校忍不住听到了一些话。主要是关于“福克斯”和“菲利斯特”，以及在邻近的舍本豪森大学的决斗和饮酒比赛，他们刚刚从著名的学府乘坐火车来到这里，贝基似乎就在他们身边，以及出席裸麦黑市 (Pumpernickel) 举行的婚礼庆典。

‘The title Englanderinn seems to be en bays de gonnoisance,’ said Max, who knew the French language, to Fritz, his comrade. ‘After the fat grandfather went away, there came a pretty little compatriot. I heard them chattering and whimpering together in the little woman’s chamber.’
“英格兰这个称号似乎是 en bays de gonnoisance，”懂法语的马克斯对他的战友弗里茨说道。 ‘胖爷爷走后，来了一个漂亮的小同胞。我听到他们在小女人的房间里一起叽叽喳喳、呜咽起来。

‘We must take the tickets for her concert,’ Fritz said. ‘Hast thou any money, Max?’
“我们必须拿到她音乐会的门票，”弗里茨说。 “麦克斯，你有钱吗？”

‘Bah,’ said the other, ‘the concert is a concert in nubibus. Hans said that she advertised one at Leipzig, and the Burschen took many tickets. But she went off without singing. She said in the coach yesterday that her pianist had fallen ill at Dresden. She cannot sing, it is my belief: her voice is as cracked as thine, O thou beer-soaking Renowner!’
‘呸，’另一个说，‘这场音乐会是努比布斯的音乐会。汉斯说，她在莱比锡做了一张广告，布尔申一家拿走了很多票。但她没有唱歌就走了。她昨天在车厢里说，她的钢琴家在德累斯顿病倒了。她不会唱歌，我相信：她的声音和你一样沙哑，哦，你这个泡着啤酒的名声大噪！

‘It is cracked; I hear her trying out of her window a schrecklich. English ballad, called ‘De Rose upon de Balgony.’’
‘它有裂痕；我听到她试图从窗外跳出去。英国民谣，名为“De Rose Upon de Balgony”。

‘Saufen and singen go not together,’ observed Fritz with the red nose, who evidently preferred the former amusement. ‘No, thou shalt take none of her tickets. She won money at the trente and quarante last night. I saw her: she made a little English boy play for her. We will spend thy money there or at the theatre, or we will treat her to French wine or Cognac in the Aurelius Garden, but the tickets we will not buy. What sayest thou? Yet, another mug of beer?’ and one and another successively having buried their blond whiskers in the mawkish draught, curled them and swaggered off into the fair.
“索芬和辛根不适合在一起。”红鼻子弗里茨说道，他显然更喜欢前者。 “不，你不能拿走她的任何一张票。昨晚她在 trente 和 quarante 赢了钱。我看到了她：她让一个英国小男孩为她演奏。我们会在那里或剧院花你的钱，或者我们会在奥勒留花园请她喝法国葡萄酒或白兰地，但我们不会买票。你说什么？然而，再来一杯啤酒吗？”一个又一个相继把金色的胡须埋在令人伤感的气流中，卷曲起来，大摇大摆地走进集市。

The Major, who had seen the key of No. 90 put up on its hook and had heard the conversation of the two young University bloods, was not at a loss to understand that their talk related to Becky. ‘The little devil is at her old tricks,’ he thought, and he smiled as he recalled old days, when he had witnessed the desperate flirtation with Jos and the ludicrous end of that adventure. He and George had often laughed over it subsequently, and until a few weeks after George’s marriage, when he also was caught in the little Circe’s toils, and had an understanding with her which his comrade certainly suspected, but preferred to ignore. William was too much hurt or ashamed to ask to fathom that disgraceful mystery, although once, and evidently with remorse on his mind, George had alluded to it. It was on the morning of Waterloo, as the young men stood together in front of their line, surveying the black masses of Frenchmen who crowned the opposite heights, and as the rain was coming down, ‘I have been mixing in a foolish intrigue with a woman,’ George said. ‘I am glad we were marched away. If I drop, I hope Emmy will never know of that business. I wish to God it had never been begun!’ And William was pleased to think, and had more than once soothed poor George’s widow with the narrative, that Osborne, after quitting his wife, and after the action of Quatre Bras, on the first day, spoke gravely and affectionately to his comrade of his father and his wife. On these facts, too, William had insisted very strongly in his conversations with the elder Osborne, and had thus been the means of reconciling the old gentleman to his son’s memory, just at the close of the elder man’s life.
少校看到了挂在钩子上的90号钥匙，也听到了两位年轻的大学血统的谈话，他并没有困惑地明白他们的谈话与贝基有关。 “这个小恶魔又在玩她的老把戏了。”他想，回忆起过去的日子，他微笑着，当时他目睹了与乔斯绝望的调情，以及那次冒险的可笑结局。随后，他和乔治经常为此开怀大笑，直到乔治结婚几周后，他也陷入了小喀耳刻的辛劳之中，并与她达成了谅解，而他的同志当然对此表示怀疑，但宁愿忽视。威廉太受伤了，也太羞愧了，无法要求了解这个可耻的谜团，尽管乔治曾经提到过这一点，而且显然他心里很悔恨。那是在滑铁卢的早晨，当年轻人一起站在他们的阵线前，观察着占据对面高地的黑色法国人群众时，当雨倾盆而下时，“我一直在与一个愚蠢的阴谋混在一起”。一个女人，”乔治说。 “我很高兴我们被带走了。如果我放弃，我希望艾美永远不会知道这件事。我希望上帝从来没有开始过！”威廉很高兴地想到，并且不止一次地用叙述来安慰可怜的乔治的遗孀，奥斯本在离开他的妻子之后，在四布拉斯的行动之后，在第一个那天，他严肃而深情地对他的父亲和妻子的战友说话。同样，威廉在与老奥斯本的谈话中也非常强烈地坚持了这些事实，因此成为了在老先生生命即将结束时使老先生与他儿子的记忆和解的手段。

‘And so this devil is still going on with her intrigues,’ thought William. ‘I wish she were a hundred miles from here. She brings mischief wherever she goes.’ And he was pursuing these forebodings and this uncomfortable train of thought, with his head between his hands, and the Pumpernickel Gazette of last week unread under his nose, when somebody tapped his shoulder with a parasol, and he looked up and saw Mrs. Amelia.
“所以这个魔鬼仍在继续她的阴谋，”威廉想。 “我希望她在离这里一百英里的地方。无论她走到哪里，她都会带来恶作剧。”他两手夹着头，在追寻这些不祥的预感和这种令人不安的思绪，而上周的《裸麦公报》在他眼皮底下还没有读完，这时有人用阳伞拍了拍他的肩膀，他抬起头，看到了阿米莉亚夫人。

This woman had a way of tyrannizing over Major Dobbin (for the weakest of all people will domineer over somebody), and she ordered him about, and patted him, and made him fetch and carry just as if he was a great Newfoundland dog. He liked, so to speak, to jump into the water if she said ‘High, Dobbin!’ and to trot behind her with her reticule in his mouth. This history has been written to very little purpose if the reader has not perceived that the Major was a spooney.
这个女人对多宾少校有一种专横的态度（因为所有人中最弱的人也会对某人发号施令），她对他发号施令，拍拍他，让他抱起并携带，就像他是一只伟大的纽芬兰狗一样。可以这么说，如果她说“高，多宾！”，他就喜欢跳进水里，然后嘴里叼着她的手提包，小跑在她后面。如果读者没有意识到少校是个痴迷者，那么这段历史就没有什么意义。

‘Why did you not wait for me, sir, to escort me downstairs?’ she said, giving a little toss of her head and a most sarcastic curtsey.
“先生，你为什么不等我送我下楼呢？”她说着，轻轻摇了摇头，行了一个极其讽刺的屈膝礼。

‘I couldn’t stand up in the passage,’ he answered with a comical deprecatory look; and, delighted to give her his arm and to take her out of the horrid smoky place, he would have walked off without even so much as remembering the waiter, had not the young fellow run after him and stopped him on the threshold of the Elephant to make him pay for the beer which he had not consumed. Emmy laughed: she called him a naughty man, who wanted to run away in debt, and, in fact, made some jokes suitable to the occasion and the small-beer. She was in high spirits and good humour, and tripped across the market-place very briskly. She wanted to see Jos that instant. The Major laughed at the impetuous affection Mrs. Amelia exhibited; for, in truth, it was not very often that she wanted her brother ‘that instant.’ They found the civilian in his saloon on the first-floor; he had been pacing the room, and biting his nails, and looking over the market-place towards the Elephant a hundred times at least during the past hour whilst Emmy was closeted with her friend in the garret and the Major was beating the tattoo on the sloppy tables of the public room below, and he was, on his side too, very anxious to see Mrs. Osborne.
“我在过道里站不起来。”他用一种滑稽的、蔑视的表情回答道。他很高兴地伸出手臂，带她离开这个可怕的烟雾缭绕的地方，要不是那个年轻人追上他，在大象门口拦住了他，他就会走开，甚至连侍者都不记得了。让他为他没有喝完的啤酒付钱。艾美笑了：她说他是个顽皮的人，想负债累累，事实上，还开了一些适合场合和小啤酒的笑话。她精神抖擞，心情愉快，轻快地穿过市场。她立刻就想见乔斯。少校嘲笑阿米莉亚夫人表现出的鲁莽的感情。因为，事实上，她“那一刻”想要她的兄弟的情况并不常见。他们在一楼的沙龙里找到了这位平民；他的哥哥在他的房间里。在过去的一个小时里，他在房间里来回踱步，咬着指甲，从市场上望向大象，至少一百次，而艾美和她的朋友在阁楼里，少校正在敲打纹身。楼下公共房间里乱七八糟的桌子，他本人也非常渴望见到奥斯本夫人。

‘Well?’ said he.
“怎么样？”他说。

‘The poor dear creature, how she has suffered!’ Emmy said.
“可怜的亲爱的生物，她遭受了多么痛苦！”艾美说。

‘God bless my soul, yes,’ Jos said, wagging his head, so that his cheeks quivered like jellies.
“是的，上帝保佑我的灵魂，”乔斯摇着头说道，脸颊像果冻一样颤抖。

‘She may have Payne’s room, who can go upstairs,’ Emmy continued. Payne was a staid English maid and personal attendant upon Mrs. Osborne, to whom the courier, as in duty bound, paid court, and whom Georgy used to ‘lark’ dreadfully with accounts of German robbers and ghosts. She passed her time chiefly in grumbling, in ordering about her mistress, and in stating her intention to return the next morning to her native village of Clapham. ‘She may have Payne’s room,’ Emmy said.
“她可能拥有佩恩的房间，佩恩可以上楼，”艾美继续说道。佩恩是一位古板的英国女仆，也是奥斯本夫人的贴身侍从，信使出于义务向她讨好，而乔吉经常用她来“开玩笑”，讲述德国强盗和鬼魂的故事。她主要通过抱怨、对女主人发号施令以及表示打算第二天早上返回家乡克拉彭来打发时间。 “她可能拥有佩恩的房间，”艾美说。

‘Why, you don’t mean to say you are going to have that woman into the house?’ bounced out the Major, jumping up.
“怎么，你不是说要让那个女人进屋吗？”少校跳了起来，问道。

‘Of course we are,’ said Amelia in the most innocent way in the world. ‘Don’t be angry and break the furniture, Major Dobbin. Of course we are going to have her here.’
“当然，”阿米莉亚用世界上最天真的方式说道。 “别生气，打破家具，多宾少校。当然，我们会让她在这里。

‘Of course, my dear,’ Jos said.
“当然，亲爱的，”乔斯说。

‘The poor creature, after all her sufferings,’ Emmy continued; ‘her horrid banker broken and run away; her husband—wicked wretch— having deserted her and taken her child away from her’ (here she doubled her two little fists and held them in a most menacing attitude before her, so that the Major was charmed to see such a dauntless virago) ‘the poor dear thing! quite alone and absolutely forced to give lessons in singing to get her bread—and not have her here!’
“这个可怜的生物，在经历了所有的痛苦之后，”艾美继续说道。 “她那个可怕的银行家崩溃了，逃跑了；她的丈夫——邪恶的恶棍——抛弃了她，把她的孩子从她身边夺走了。可怜的亲爱的东西！非常孤独，绝对被迫上唱歌课来获得面包——而且没有她在这里！

‘Take lessons, my dear Mrs. George,’ cried the Major, ‘but don’t have her in the house. I implore you don’t.’
“去上课吧，我亲爱的乔治夫人，”少校喊道，“但别让她在家里。”我恳求你不要这样做。

‘Pooh,’ said Jos.
“呸，”乔斯说。

‘You who are always good and kind—always used to be at any rate— I’m astonished at you, Major William,’ Amelia cried. ‘Why, what is the moment to help her but when she is so miserable? Now is the time to be of service to her. The oldest friend I ever had, and not—‘
“你总是善良善良——至少以前总是这样——我对你感到惊讶，威廉少校，”阿米莉亚哭道。 ‘为什么，除了她如此痛苦的时候，还有什么时候可以帮助她呢？现在是为她服务的时候了。我有过的最老的朋友，但不是——”

‘She was not always your friend, Amelia,’ the Major said, for he was quite angry. This allusion was too much for Emmy, who, looking the Major almost fiercely in the face, said, ‘For shame, Major Dobbin!’ and after having fired this shot, she walked out of the room with a most majestic air and shut her own door briskly on herself and her outraged dignity.
“她并不总是你的朋友，阿米莉亚，”少校说，因为他很生气。这个暗示对艾美来说太过分了，她几乎凶狠地看着少校的脸，说道：“多宾少校，真丢脸！”开完这一枪后，她以一种极其威严的神气走出房间，并把门关上了。她轻快地打开自己的门，侵犯了她的尊严。

‘To allude to THAT!’ she said, when the door was closed. ‘Oh, it was cruel of him to remind me of it,’ and she looked up at George’s picture, which hung there as usual, with the portrait of the boy underneath. ‘It was cruel of him. If I had forgiven it, ought he to have spoken? No. And it is from his own lips that I know how wicked and groundless my jealousy was; and that you were pure—oh, yes, you were pure, my saint in heaven!’
“暗指那个！”门关上后，她说道。 “哦，他让我想起这件事太残忍了，”她抬头看着乔治的照片，它像往常一样挂在那里，下面是男孩的肖像。 “他太残忍了。如果我原谅了，他应该开口说话吗？不。从他亲口说起，我知道我的嫉妒是多么邪恶和毫无根据。你是纯洁的——哦，是的，你是纯洁的，我在天堂的圣人！

She paced the room, trembling and indignant. She went and leaned on the chest of drawers over which the picture hung, and gazed and gazed at it. Its eyes seemed to look down on her with a reproach that deepened as she looked. The early dear, dear memories of that brief prime of love rushed back upon her. The wound which years had scarcely cicatrized bled afresh, and oh, how bitterly! She could not bear the reproaches of the husband there before her. It couldn’t be. Never, never.
她在房间里踱来踱去，浑身颤抖，气愤不已。她走过去，靠在挂着那幅画的五斗柜上，凝视着它。它的目光似乎在俯视着她，责备的目光越看越深。早期那段短暂爱情的美好回忆又涌上心头。多年来几乎没有愈合的伤口又流血了，哦，多么痛苦啊！她无法忍受眼前丈夫的责备。不可能。从来没有，从来没有。

Poor Dobbin; poor old William! That unlucky word had undone the work of many a year—the long laborious edifice of a life of love and constancy—raised too upon what secret and hidden foundations, wherein lay buried passions, uncounted struggles, unknown sacrifices—a little word was spoken, and down fell the fair palace of hope—one word, and away flew the bird which he had been trying all his life to lure!
可怜的多宾；可怜的老威廉！那不幸的一句话毁掉了多年的工作——爱与坚贞的生活的漫长辛劳的大厦——也建立在什么秘密和隐藏的基础上，其中埋藏着激情，无数的斗争，未知的牺牲——说了一句话，美丽的希望之宫倒塌了——一句话，他一生试图引诱的鸟儿就飞走了！

William, though he saw by Amelia’s looks that a great crisis had come, nevertheless continued to implore Sedley, in the most energetic terms, to beware of Rebecca; and he eagerly, almost frantically, adjured Jos not to receive her. He besought Mr. Sedley to inquire at least regarding her; told him how he had heard that she was in the company of gamblers and people of ill repute; pointed out what evil she had done in former days, how she and Crawley had misled poor George into ruin, how she was now parted from her husband, by her own confession, and, perhaps, for good reason. What a dangerous companion she would be for his sister, who knew nothing of the affairs of the world! William implored Jos, with all the eloquence which he could bring to bear, and a great deal more energy than this quiet gentleman was ordinarily in the habit of showing, to keep Rebecca out of his household.
威廉虽然从阿米莉亚的神色中看出大危机已经来临，但他还是继续用最有力的言辞恳求塞德利提防丽贝卡。他热切地、几乎疯狂地劝告乔斯不要接待她。他恳求塞德利先生至少打听一下关于她的事。告诉他如何听说她与赌徒和名声不好的人为伍；指出她以前做过什么恶事，她和克劳利如何误导可怜的乔治走向毁灭，她现在如何通过自己的坦白与丈夫分开，也许是有充分理由的。对于他那不懂世事的妹妹来说，她将是多么危险的伴侣啊！威廉恳求乔斯，用他所能发挥的所有口才，以及比这位安静的绅士平时表现出的更多的精力，让丽贝卡远离他的家庭。

Had he been less violent, or more dexterous, he might have succeeded in his supplications to Jos; but the civilian was not a little jealous of the airs of superiority which the Major constantly exhibited towards him, as he fancied (indeed, he had imparted his opinions to Mr. Kirsch, the courier, whose bills Major Dobbin checked on this journey, and who sided with his master), and he began a blustering speech about his competency to defend his own honour, his desire not to have his affairs meddled with, his intention, in fine, to rebel against the Major, when the colloquy— rather a long and stormy one—was put an end to in the simplest way possible, namely, by the arrival of Mrs. Becky, with a porter from the Elephant Hotel in charge of her very meagre baggage.
如果他不那么暴力，或者更加灵巧，他可能会成功地向乔斯恳求。但是这位平民对少校经常向他表现出的优越感一点也不嫉妒，正如他所想象的那样（事实上，他已经向信使基尔希先生表达了自己的意见，多宾少校在这次旅途中检查了他的账单，并且他站在了他的主人一边），然后他开始了一场咆哮的演讲，谈论他有能力捍卫自己的荣誉，他不想让他的事务受到干涉，他的意图，总而言之，是要反抗少校，当时谈话——而不是一场谈话——漫长而暴风雨般的一段旅程——以最简单的方式结束了，即贝基夫人的到来，大象旅馆的一名搬运工负责她那微薄的行李。

She greeted her host with affectionate respect and made a shrinking, but amicable salutation to Major Dobbin, who, as her instinct assured her at once, was her enemy, and had been speaking against her; and the bustle and clatter consequent upon her arrival brought Amelia out of her room. Emmy went up and embraced her guest with the greatest warmth, and took no notice of the Major, except to fling him an angry look—the most unjust and scornful glance that had perhaps ever appeared in that poor little woman’s face since she was born. But she had private reasons of her own, and was bent upon being angry with him. And Dobbin, indignant at the injustice, not at the defeat, went off, making her a bow quite as haughty as the killing curtsey with which the little woman chose to bid him farewell.
她怀着深情的敬意向主人打招呼，并向多宾少校致了一个畏缩但友好的敬意，她的本能立即向她保证，多宾少校是她的敌人，一直在反对她。阿米莉亚抵达后的喧闹声将她带出了房间。艾美走上前，以最热情的态度拥抱了她的客人，没有注意到少校，只是愤怒地看了他一眼——自那个可怜的小女人出生以来，她脸上可能出现过最不公正和轻蔑的眼神。但她也有自己的私人原因，一心要生他的气。多宾对这种不公正的行为感到愤怒，而不是对失败感到愤怒，他走开了，向她鞠了一躬，就像那个小女人选择向他告别时行的致命屈膝礼一样傲慢。

He being gone, Emmy was particularly lively and affectionate to Rebecca, and bustled about the apartments and installed her guest in her room with an eagerness and activity seldom exhibited by our placid little friend. But when an act of injustice is to be done, especially by weak people, it is best that it should be done quickly, and Emmy thought she was displaying a great deal of firmness and proper feeling and veneration for the late Captain Osborne in her present behaviour.
他离开后，艾美对丽贝卡显得特别活泼和深情，她在公寓里忙碌着，把她的客人安顿在她的房间里，她的热切和活跃是我们平静的小朋友很少表现出来的。但是，当要做出不公正的行为时，尤其是弱者，最好尽快完成，艾美认为她在节目中对已故的奥斯本船长表现出了极大的坚定和适当的感情和崇敬。行为。

Georgy came in from the fetes for dinner-time and found four covers laid as usual; but one of the places was occupied by a lady, instead of by Major Dobbin. ‘Hullo! where’s Dob?’ the young gentleman asked with his usual simplicity of language. ‘Major Dobbin is dining out, I suppose,’ his mother said, and, drawing the boy to her, kissed him a great deal, and put his hair off his forehead, and introduced him to Mrs. Crawley. ‘This is my boy, Rebecca,’ Mrs. Osborne said—as much as to say—can the world produce anything like that? Becky looked at him with rapture and pressed his hand fondly. ‘Dear boy!’ she said—‘he is just like my—‘ Emotion choked her further utterance, but Amelia understood, as well as if she had spoken, that Becky was thinking of her own blessed child. However, the company of her friend consoled Mrs. Crawley, and she ate a very good dinner.
乔吉从宴会回来吃晚饭，发现四张被子像往常一样铺着。但其中一个位置被一位女士占据，而不是多宾少校。 ‘哈喽！ “多布在哪里？”年轻绅士用他一贯的简单语言问道。 “我想多宾少校正在外面吃饭，”他的母亲说，然后把男孩拉到她身边，深深地吻了他，把他的头发从前额上拂开，把他介绍给克劳利太太。 “这是我的儿子，丽贝卡，”奥斯本夫人说道——这几乎是在说——世界上能产生这样的东西吗？贝基欣喜若狂地看着他，深情地握住他的手。 “亲爱的孩子！”她说——“他就像我的——”情感让她哽咽了，但阿米莉亚明白，就像她说话一样，贝基正在想着她自己受祝福的孩子。不过，朋友的陪伴安慰了克劳利夫人，她吃了一顿丰盛的晚餐。

During the repast, she had occasion to speak several times, when Georgy eyed her and listened to her. At the desert Emmy was gone out to superintend further domestic arrangements; Jos was in his great chair dozing over Galignani; Georgy and the new arrival sat close to each other—he had continued to look at her knowingly more than once, and at last he laid down the nutcrackers.
就餐期间，她有好几次说话的机会，乔吉看着她，听她说话。艾美在沙漠中出去监督进一步的国内安排。乔斯坐在他的大椅子上，在加里尼尼身上打瞌睡。乔吉和新来的人坐在一起——他不止一次地心领神会地看着她，最后他放下了胡桃夹子。

‘I say,’ said Georgy.
“我说，”乔治说。

‘What do you say?’ Becky said, laughing.
“你说什么？”贝基笑着说。

‘You’re the lady I saw in the mask at the Rouge et Noir.’
“你就是我在红与黑餐厅看到的那位戴着面具的女士。”

‘Hush! you little sly creature,’ Becky said, taking up his hand and kissing it. ‘Your uncle was there too, and Mamma mustn’t know.’
‘嘘！你这个狡猾的小家伙。”贝基说着，握住他的手并亲吻了它。 “你叔叔也在场，妈妈一定不能知道。”

‘Oh, no—not by no means,’ answered the little fellow.
“哦，不——绝不是这样，”小家伙回答道。

‘You see we are quite good friends already,’ Becky said to Emmy, who now re-entered; and it must be owned that Mrs. Osborne had introduced a most judicious and amiable companion into her house.
“你看，我们已经是很好的朋友了，”贝基对艾美说道，艾美现在又重新进来了。必须承认，奥斯本夫人在她家里引入了一位最明智、最和蔼可亲的伴侣。

William, in a state of great indignation, though still unaware of all the treason that was in store for him, walked about the town wildly until he fell upon the Secretary of Legation, Tapeworm, who invited him to dinner. As they were discussing that meal, he took occasion to ask the Secretary whether he knew anything about a certain Mrs. Rawdon Crawley, who had, he believed, made some noise in London; and then Tapeworm, who of course knew all the London gossip, and was besides a relative of Lady Gaunt, poured out into the astonished Major’s ears such a history about Becky and her husband as astonished the querist, and supplied all the points of this narrative, for it was at that very table years ago that the present writer had the pleasure of hearing the tale. Tufto, Steyne, the Crawleys, and their history—everything connected with Becky and her previous life passed under the record of the bitter diplomatist. He knew everything and a great deal besides, about all the world—in a word, he made the most astounding revelations to the simplehearted Major. When Dobbin said that Mrs. Osborne and Mr. Sedley had taken her into their house, Tapeworm burst into a peal of laughter which shocked the Major, and asked if they had not better send into the prison and take in one or two of the gentlemen in shaved heads and yellow jackets who swept the streets of Pumpernickel, chained in pairs, to board and lodge, and act as tutor to that little scapegrace Georgy.
威廉在极大的愤慨中，尽管仍然没有意识到所有的叛国行为正在等待着他，他在镇上疯狂地走来走去，直到他遇到了公使馆秘书绦虫，后者邀请他共进晚餐。当他们讨论那顿饭时，他趁机问秘书他是否了解某个罗登·克劳利夫人，他相信她在伦敦引起了一些轰动；但他并没有意识到这一点。然后，绦虫当然知道伦敦的所有八卦，而且也是冈特夫人的亲戚，他向惊讶的少校的耳朵里灌输了一段关于贝基和她丈夫的历史，让询问者感到惊讶，并提供了这个叙述的所有要点。 ，因为几年前正是在这张桌子上，本文作者有幸听到了这个故事。塔夫托、斯泰因、克劳利一家，以及他们的历史——一切与贝基和她前世有关的事情都被这位尖酸刻薄的外交家记录在案。他知道一切，而且知道很多，关于整个世界——总而言之，他向心地单纯的少校透露了最令人震惊的事情。当多宾说奥斯本夫人和塞德利先生把她带进了他们的房子时，绦虫突然爆发出一阵大笑，这让少校大吃一惊，并问他们是否最好送进监狱并收留一两个先生。一群人剃着光头，穿着黄色夹克，成双成对地用铁链锁着，清扫普珀尼克尔的街道，提供食宿，并充当那个小可怜虫乔吉的家庭教师。

This information astonished and horrified the Major not a little. It had been agreed in the morning (before meeting with Rebecca) that Amelia should go to the Court ball that night. There would be the place where he should tell her. The Major went home, and dressed himself in his uniform, and repaired to Court, in hopes to see Mrs. Osborne. She never came. When he returned to his lodgings all the lights in the Sedley tenement were put out. He could not see her till the morning. I don’t know what sort of a night’s rest he had with this frightful secret in bed with him.
这个消息让少校感到不小的惊讶和恐惧。早上（在与丽贝卡会面之前）商定阿米莉亚应该去参加当晚的宫廷舞会。总有一个地方他应该告诉她。少校回到家，穿上制服，前往宫廷，希望能见到奥斯本夫人。她从来没有来过。当他回到住所时，塞德利公寓的所有灯都熄灭了。直到早上他才见到她。我不知道他和这个可怕的秘密在床上睡得怎么样。

At the earliest convenient hour in the morning he sent his servant across the way with a note, saying that he wished very particularly to speak with her. A message came back to say that Mrs. Osborne was exceedingly unwell and was keeping her room.
一大清早方便的时候，他派仆人带着一张纸条过马路，说他特别想和她谈谈。收到一条消息，说奥斯本夫人身体非常不适，正在保留自己的房间。

She, too, had been awake all that night. She had been thinking of a thing which had agitated her mind a hundred times before. A hundred times on the point of yielding, she had shrunk back from a sacrifice which she felt was too much for her. She couldn’t, in spite of his love and constancy and her own acknowledged regard, respect, and gratitude. What are benefits, what is constancy, or merit? One curl of a girl’s ringlet, one hair of a whisker, will turn the scale against them all in a minute. They did not weigh with Emmy more than with other women. She had tried them; wanted to make them pass; could not; and the pitiless little woman had found a pretext, and determined to be free.
那天晚上，她也彻夜未眠。她一直在想一件之前让她心烦意乱了一百次的事情。一百次在屈服的时刻，她都退缩了，因为她觉得这种牺牲对她来说太过分了。尽管他有爱和坚定，也有她自己公认的尊重、尊重和感激，但她做不到。什么是利益，什么是恒心，什么是功德？女孩的一卷卷发，一根胡须，都会在一分钟内扭转一切。她们对艾美奖的重视并不比对其他女性的重视。她已经尝试过了；想让他们通过；不能;这个无情的小女人找到了借口，决心获得自由。

When at length, in the afternoon, the Major gained admission to Amelia, instead of the cordial and affectionate greeting, to which he had been accustomed now for many a long day, he received the salutation of a curtsey, and of a little gloved hand, retracted the moment after it was accorded to him.
下午，当少校终于进入阿米莉亚时，他收到的不是他在漫长的一天中已经习惯的亲切而深情的问候，而是屈膝礼和一只戴着手套的小手的问候。 ，在给予他后立即撤回。

Rebecca, too, was in the room, and advanced to meet him with a smile and an extended hand. Dobbin drew back rather confusedly, ‘I—I beg your pardon, m’am,’ he said; ‘but I am bound to tell you that it is not as your friend that I am come here now.’
丽贝卡也在房间里，她微笑着走上前来迎接他，并伸出了手。多宾相当困惑地后退了一步，“我——请您原谅，女士，”他说。 “但我必须告诉你，我现在并不是作为你的朋友来到这里的。”

‘Pooh! damn; don’t let us have this sort of thing!’ Jos cried out, alarmed, and anxious to get rid of a scene.
'呸！该死;别让我们遇到这种事！”乔斯惊慌失措地喊道，急于摆脱这一幕。

‘I wonder what Major Dobbin has to say against Rebecca?’ Amelia said in a low, clear voice with a slight quiver in it, and a very determined look about the eyes.
“我想知道多宾少校要对丽贝卡说些什么？”阿米莉亚用低沉、清晰的声音说道，声音里有轻微的颤抖，眼神里流露出非常坚定的神情。

‘I will not have this sort of thing in my house,’ Jos again interposed. ‘I say I will not have it; and Dobbin, I beg, sir, you’ll stop it.’ And he looked round, trembling and turning very red, and gave a great puff, and made for his door.
“我的家里不会有这种东西。”乔斯再次插嘴。 ‘我说我不会拥有它；多宾，先生，求求你别再这样了。”他环顾四周，浑身发抖，脸色涨得通红，猛地吸了一口烟，向门口走去。

‘Dear friend!’ Rebecca said with angelic sweetness, ‘do hear what Major Dobbin has to say against me.’
“亲爱的朋友！”丽贝卡带着天使般的甜蜜说道，“一定要听听多宾少校是怎么说我的。”

‘I will not hear it, I say,’ squeaked out Jos at the top of his voice, and, gathering up his dressing-gown, he was gone.
“我不会听的，我说，”乔斯用最高的声音尖叫道，然后，他拿起晨衣就走了。

‘We are only two women,’ Amelia said. ‘You can speak now, sir.’
“我们只有两个女人，”阿米莉亚说。 “您现在可以说话了，先生。”

‘This manner towards me is one which scarcely becomes you, Amelia,’ the Major answered haughtily; ‘nor I believe am I guilty of habitual harshness to women. It is not a pleasure to me to do the duty which I am come to do.’
“阿米莉亚，你对我的这种态度根本不适合你，”少校傲慢地回答道。 “我也不认为我对女性有惯常的严厉态度。我不乐意履行我来此履行的职责。

‘Pray proceed with it quickly, if you please, Major Dobbin,’ said Amelia, who was more and more in a pet. The expression of Dobbin’s face, as she spoke in this imperious manner, was not pleasant.
“如果你愿意的话，请尽快进行，多宾少校，”阿米莉亚说，她越来越像宠物了。多宾以这种专横的态度说话，脸上的表情并不令人愉快。

‘I came to say—and as you stay, Mrs. Crawley, I must say it in your presence—that I think you—you ought not to form a member of the family of my friends. A lady who is separated from her husband, who travels not under her own name, who frequents public gaming-tables—‘
“我来是要说——当你留下来时，克劳利夫人，我必须当着你的面说——我认为你——你不应该成为我朋友的家庭成员。一位与丈夫分居的女士，不以自己的名义旅行，经常光顾公共赌桌的女士——”

‘It was to the ball I went,’ cried out Becky.
“我是去参加舞会的，”贝基喊道。

‘—is not a fit companion for Mrs. Osborne and her son,’ Dobbin went on: ‘and I may add that there are people here who know you, and who profess to know that regarding your conduct about which I don’t even wish to speak before—before Mrs. Osborne.’
“——对于奥斯本夫人和她的儿子来说，这不是一个合适的伴侣，”多宾继续说道：“我可以补充一点，这里有人认识你，而且他们自称知道你的行为，而我什至不知道你的行为。”我希望在奥斯本夫人之前发言。

‘Yours is a very modest and convenient sort of calumny, Major Dobbin,’ Rebecca said. ‘You leave me under the weight of an accusation which, after all, is unsaid. What is it? Is it unfaithfulness to my husband? I scorn it and defy anybody to prove it—I defy you, I say. My honour is as untouched as that of the bitterest enemy who ever maligned me. Is it of being poor, forsaken, wretched, that you accuse me? Yes, I am guilty of those faults, and punished for them every day. Let me go, Emmy. It is only to suppose that I have not met you, and I am no worse to-day than I was yesterday. It is only to suppose that the night is over and the poor wanderer is on her way. Don’t you remember the song we used to sing in old, dear old days? I have been wandering ever since then—a poor castaway, scorned for being miserable, and insulted because I am alone. Let me go: my stay here interferes with the plans of this gentleman.’
“多宾少校，你的诽谤是一种非常谦虚和方便的诽谤，”丽贝卡说。 “你让我承受着一种指控的重压，而这种指控毕竟是没有说出来的。它是什么？是不是对老公不忠？我对此嗤之以鼻，并蔑视任何人来证明这一点——我说，我蔑视你。我的荣誉像曾经诽谤过我的最凶恶的敌人一样毫发无伤。你指责我是因为贫穷、被遗弃、不幸吗？是的，我犯了这些错误，每天都为此受到惩罚。让我走吧，艾美。只是假设我没有遇见你，今天的我并不比昨天差。只是假设夜晚已经过去，可怜的流浪者正在上路。你还记得我们在过去、亲爱的过去唱过的那首歌吗？从那时起，我就一直在流浪——一个可怜的漂流者，因为悲惨而被蔑视，因为孤独而受到侮辱。让我走吧：我留在这里会干扰这位先生的计划。”

‘Indeed it does, madam,’ said the Major. ‘If I have any authority in this house—‘
“确实如此，女士，”少校说。 “如果我在这所房子里有任何权力——”

‘Authority, none!’ broke out Amelia ‘Rebecca, you stay with me. I won’t desert you because you have been persecuted, or insult you because—because Major Dobbin chooses to do so. Come away, dear.’ And the two women made towards the door.
“权威，没有！”阿米莉亚大声说道，“丽贝卡，你留在我身边。”我不会因为你受到迫害而抛弃你，也不会因为——因为多宾少校选择这样做而侮辱你。走开，亲爱的。”两个女人朝门口走去。

William opened it. As they were going out, however, he took Amelia’s hand and said—‘Will you stay a moment and speak to me?’
威廉打开了它。然而，当他们出去时，他拉着阿米莉亚的手说：“你能留下来和我说话吗？”

‘He wishes to speak to you away from me,’ said Becky, looking like a martyr. Amelia gripped her hand in reply.
“他想在远离我的地方和你说话，”贝基说道，看上去就像一位烈士。阿米莉亚握紧了手回答道。

‘Upon my honour it is not about you that I am going to speak,’ Dobbin said. ‘Come back, Amelia,’ and she came. Dobbin bowed to Mrs. Crawley, as he shut the door upon her. Amelia looked at him, leaning against the glass: her face and her lips were quite white.
“以我的名誉担保，我要发言的并不是关于你的，”多宾说。 “回来吧，阿米莉亚。”她就来了。多宾向克劳利夫人鞠了一躬，然后关上了门。阿米莉亚靠在玻璃上看着他：她的脸和嘴唇都很白。

‘I was confused when I spoke just now,’ the Major said after a pause, ‘and I misused the word authority.’
“我刚才说话时很困惑，”少校停顿了一下说，“我误用了‘权威’这个词。”

‘You did,’ said Amelia with her teeth chattering.
“你做到了，”阿米莉亚牙齿打颤地说。

‘At least I have claims to be heard,’ Dobbin continued.
“至少我声称自己的声音被听到了，”多宾继续说道。

‘It is generous to remind me of our obligations to you,’ the woman answered.
“提醒我我们对你的义务，这真是慷慨，”女人回答道。

‘The claims I mean are those left me by George’s father,’ William said.
“我指的是乔治的父亲留给我的主张，”威廉说。

‘Yes, and you insulted his memory. You did yesterday. You know you did. And I will never forgive you. Never!’ said Amelia. She shot out each little sentence in a tremor of anger and emotion.
“是的，你侮辱了他的记忆。你昨天做到了。你知道你做到了。我永远不会原谅你。从来没有！”阿米莉亚说。她在愤怒和情感的颤抖中说出了每一个小句子。

‘You don’t mean that, Amelia?’ William said sadly. ‘You don’t mean that these words, uttered in a hurried moment, are to weigh against a whole life’s devotion? I think that George’s memory has not been injured by the way in which I have dealt with it, and if we are come to bandying reproaches, I at least merit none from his widow and the mother of his son. Reflect, afterwards when—when you are at leisure, and your conscience will withdraw this accusation. It does even now.’ Amelia held down her head.
“你不是这个意思吗，阿米莉亚？”威廉悲伤地说。 ‘你的意思不是说，这匆匆说出来的话语，会抵消一生的奉献吗？我认为乔治的记忆并没有因我的处理方式而受到伤害，如果我们受到责备，我至少不值得他的遗孀和他儿子的母亲责备。事后反思一下——当你有闲暇的时候，你的良心就会收回这个指控。现在也是如此。”阿米莉亚低着头。

‘It is not that speech of yesterday,’ he continued, ‘which moves you. That is but the pretext, Amelia, or I have loved you and watched you for fifteen years in vain. Have I not learned in that time to read all your feelings and look into your thoughts? I know what your heart is capable of: it can cling faithfully to a recollection and cherish a fancy, but it can’t feel such an attachment as mine deserves to mate with, and such as I would have won from a woman more generous than you. No, you are not worthy of the love which I have devoted to you. I knew all along that the prize I had set my life on was not worth the winning; that I was a fool, with fond fancies, too, bartering away my all of truth and ardour against your little feeble remnant of love. I will bargain no more: I withdraw. I find no fault with you. You are very goodnatured, and have done your best, but you couldn’t—you couldn’t reach up to the height of the attachment which I bore you, and which a loftier soul than yours might have been proud to share. Good-bye, Amelia! I have watched your struggle. Let it end. We are both weary of it.’
“并不是昨天的演讲，”他继续说道，“让你感动的。那只是借口，阿米莉亚，否则我白白地爱了你、注视了你十五年。难道我没有在那个时候学会读懂你所有的感受并审视你的想法吗？我知道你的心有什么能力：它可以忠实地抓住回忆，珍惜幻想，但它无法感受到我应有的依恋，也无法从一个比我更慷慨的女人那里赢得这样的依恋。你。不，你不值得我为你倾注的爱。我一直都知道，我为之奋斗的奖品并不值得去赢得；我是个傻瓜，也有美好的幻想，用我所有的真理和热情来交换你仅存的一点微弱的爱。我不再讨价还价：我退出。我没发现你有什么错。你脾气很好，已经尽力了，但你做不到——你达不到我对你的依恋的高度，而比你更高尚的灵魂可能会自豪地分享这种依恋。再见，阿米莉亚！我目睹了你的挣扎。让它结束吧。我们都厌倦了。

Amelia stood scared and silent as William thus suddenly broke the chain by which she held him and declared his independence and superiority. He had placed himself at her feet so long that the poor little woman had been accustomed to trample upon him. She didn’t wish to marry him, but she wished to keep him. She wished to give him nothing, but that he should give her all. It is a bargain not unfrequently levied in love.
阿米莉亚害怕地站着，一言不发，威廉突然挣脱了她束缚他的锁链，宣布他的独立和优越。他跪在她脚下太久了，可怜的小女人已经习惯了踩他。她不想嫁给他，但她想留住他。她不想给他什么，却希望他给她一切。这是爱情中经常发生的交易。

William’s sally had quite broken and cast her down. HER assault was long since over and beaten back.
威廉的攻击让她彻底崩溃了。她的攻击早已结束并被击退。

‘Am I to understand then, that you are going—away, William?’ she said.
“那么我可以理解为，你要走了吗，威廉？”她说。

He gave a sad laugh. ‘I went once before,’ he said, ‘and came back after twelve years. We were young then, Amelia. Good-bye. I have spent enough of my life at this play.’
他悲伤地笑了一声。 “我以前去过一次，”他说，“十二年后又回来了。”那时我们还年轻，阿米莉亚。再见。我已经在这部戏上度过了足够多的人生了。

Whilst they had been talking, the door into Mrs. Osborne’s room had opened ever so little; indeed, Becky had kept a hold of the handle and had turned it on the instant when Dobbin quitted it, and she heard every word of the conversation that had passed between these two. ‘What a noble heart that man has,’ she thought, ‘and how shamefully that woman plays with it!’ She admired Dobbin; she bore him no rancour for the part he had taken against her. It was an open move in the game, and played fairly. ‘Ah!’ she thought, ‘if I could have had such a husband as that—a man with a heart and brains too! I would not have minded his large feet”; and running into her room, she absolutely bethought herself of something, and wrote him a note, beseeching him to stop for a few days—not to think of going— and that she could serve him with A.
当他们说话的时候，奥斯本夫人房间的门开得很少。事实上，贝基一直握着手柄，当多宾松开手柄时，她就打开了手柄，她听到了两人之间谈话的每一个字。 “这个男人有一颗多么高尚的心，”她想，“那个女人却用它来玩弄它，这是多么可耻！”她钦佩多宾；她并没有因为他对她的所作所为而对他怀有怨恨。这是比赛中的公开举动，而且比赛公平。 “啊！”她想，“要是我能有一个这样的丈夫就好了——一个有爱心、有头脑的男人！”我不会介意他的大脚”；跑进自己的房间，她突然想到了什么，给他写了一张纸条，恳求他停下来几天——不要想着去——她可以为他提供A。

The parting was over. Once more poor William walked to the door and was gone; and the little widow, the author of all this work, had her will, and had won her victory, and was left to enjoy it as she best might. Let the ladies envy her triumph.
离别结束了。可怜的威廉再次走到门口就走了。小寡妇，所有这一切的作者，有她的意愿，并赢得了胜利，并被留下来尽她所能地享受它。让女士们羡慕她的胜利。

At the romantic hour of dinner, Mr. Georgy made his appearance and again remarked the absence of ‘Old Dob.’ The meal was eaten in silence by the party. Jos’s appetite not being diminished, but Emmy taking nothing at all.
在浪漫的晚餐时间，乔吉先生出现了，并再次指出“老多布”的缺席。这顿饭大家安静地吃着。乔斯的胃口并没有减少，但艾美什么也没吃。

After the meal, Georgy was lolling in the cushions of the old window, a large window, with three sides of glass abutting from the gable, and commanding on one side the market-place, where the Elephant is, his mother being busy hard by, when he remarked symptoms of movement at the Major’s house on the other side of the street.
饭后，乔吉懒洋洋地躺在旧窗户的垫子上，那是一扇大窗户，三面玻璃紧邻山墙，一侧是市场，大象就在那里，他的母亲正忙着在旁边。 ，当他注意到街道另一边少校的房子里有移动的迹象时。

‘Hullo!’ said he, ‘there’s Dob’s trap—they are bringing it out of the court-yard.’ The ‘trap’ in question was a carriage which the Major had bought for six pounds sterling, and about which they used to rally him a good deal.
“哈啰！”他说，“这是多布的陷阱——他们正在把它从院子里拿出来。”这个“陷阱”是少校花六英镑买来的一辆马车，他们经常围绕着它集会。他很划算。

Emmy gave a little start, but said nothing.
艾美吃了一惊，但什么也没说。

‘Hullo!’ Georgy continued, ‘there’s Francis coming out with the portmanteaus, and Kunz, the one-eyed postilion, coming down the market with three schimmels. Look at his boots and yellow jacket— ain’t he a rum one? Why—they’re putting the horses to Dob’s carriage. Is he going anywhere?’
“哈啰！”乔吉继续说道，“弗朗西斯拿着组合词出来了，而昆兹，独眼的邮差，带着三个雪糕从市场上走下来。看看他的靴子和黄色夹克——他不是朗姆酒人吗？为什么——他们正在把马匹放到多布的马车上。他要去哪儿吗？

‘Yes,’ said Emmy, ‘he is going on a journey.’
“是的，”艾美说，“他要去旅行了。”

‘Going on a journey; and when is he coming back?’
‘去旅行；他什么时候回来？

‘He is—not coming back,’ answered Emmy.
“他——不会回来了，”艾美回答道。

‘Not coming back!’ cried out Georgy, jumping up. ‘Stay here, sir,’ roared out Jos. ‘Stay, Georgy,’ said his mother with a very sad face. The boy stopped, kicked about the room, jumped up and down from the window-seat with his knees, and showed every symptom of uneasiness and curiosity.
“不回来了！”乔吉跳起来喊道。 “留下来，先生，”乔斯吼道。“留下来，乔吉，”他的母亲满脸悲伤地说。男孩停下来，在房间里踢来踢去，用膝盖在靠窗的座位上跳上跳下，表现出各种不安和好奇的迹象。

The horses were put to. The baggage was strapped on. Francis came out with his master’s sword, cane, and umbrella tied up together, and laid them in the well, and his desk and old tin cocked-hat case, which he placed under the seat. Francis brought out the stained old blue cloak lined with red camlet, which had wrapped the owner up any time these fifteen years, and had manchen Sturm erlebt, as a favourite song of those days said. It had been new for the campaign of Waterloo and had covered George and William after the night of Quatre Bras.
马匹被放走了。行李已经绑好。弗朗西斯出来了，他把主人的剑、手杖和雨伞绑在一起，放在井里，还有他的桌子和旧的锡制三角帽盒，放在座位下面。弗朗西斯拿出那件脏兮兮的旧蓝色斗篷，里面衬着红色羽绒服，这十五年来，它一直把主人包裹起来，正如当时最喜欢的一首歌曲所说，“manchen Sturm erlebt”。这对滑铁卢战役来说是新鲜事，在四布拉斯之夜之后报道了乔治和威廉。

Old Burcke, the landlord of the lodgings, came out, then Francis, with more packages—final packages—then Major William—Burcke wanted to kiss him. The Major was adored by all people with whom he had to do. It was with difficulty he could escape from this demonstration of attachment.
旅馆的房东老伯克走了出来，然后是弗朗西斯，带着更多的包裹——最后的包裹——然后是威廉少校——伯克想吻他。少校受到所有与他打交道的人的崇拜。他很难摆脱这种依恋的表现。

‘By Jove, I will go!’ screamed out George. ‘Give him this,’ said Becky, quite interested, and put a paper into the boy’s hand. He had rushed down the stairs and flung across the street in a minute— the yellow postilion was cracking his whip gently.
“天哪，我要去！”乔治尖叫道。 “给他这个，”贝基很感兴趣地说，然后把一张纸塞到男孩手里。他冲下楼梯，一分钟后就冲到了街道对面——黄色的邮差正在轻轻地甩动他的鞭子。

William had got into the carriage, released from the embraces of his landlord. George bounded in afterwards, and flung his arms round the Major’s neck (as they saw from the window), and began asking him multiplied questions. Then he felt in his waistcoat pocket and gave him a note. William seized at it rather eagerly, he opened it trembling, but instantly his countenance changed, and he tore the paper in two and dropped it out of the carriage. He kissed Georgy on the head, and the boy got out, doubling his fists into his eyes, and with the aid of Francis. He lingered with his hand on the panel. Fort, Schwager! The yellow postilion cracked his whip prodigiously, up sprang Francis to the box, away went the schimmels, and Dobbin with his head on his breast. He never looked up as they passed under Amelia’s window, and Georgy, left alone in the street, burst out crying in the face of all the crowd.
威廉已经摆脱了房东的怀抱，上了马车。乔治随后跳了进来，用双臂搂住少校的脖子（正如他们从窗口看到的那样），并开始问他很多问题。然后他伸手摸了摸背心口袋，给了他一张纸条。威廉急切地抓起它，颤抖着打开，但立刻脸色一变，把纸撕成两半，扔出了马车。他吻了乔治的头，男孩在弗朗西斯的帮助下下了车，用拳头捂住眼睛。他的手在面板上徘徊。堡垒，施瓦格！黄色的邮差猛烈地抽响了他的鞭子，弗朗西斯跳到了盒子里，希米尔斯走了，多宾把头放在胸前。当他们经过阿米莉亚的窗下时，他从未抬头，乔治独自一人留在街上，当着所有人的面放声大哭。

Emmy’s maid heard him howling again during the night and brought him some preserved apricots to console him. She mingled her lamentations with his. All the poor, all the humble, all honest folks, all good men who knew him, loved that kind-hearted and simple gentleman.
艾美的女仆半夜又听到他嚎叫，就给他拿了一些杏脯来安慰他。她将自己的悲痛与他的悲痛交织在一起。所有的穷人，所有的卑微的人，所有诚实的人，所有认识他的好人，都喜欢这位善良而朴素的绅士。

As for Emmy, had she not done her duty? She had her picture of George for a consolation.
至于艾美，她难道没有尽到自己的职责吗？她保留了乔治的照片作为安慰。

Chapter LXVII
第六十七章


Which Contains Births, Marriages, and Deaths
其中包含出生、婚姻和死亡

Whatever Becky’s private plan might be by which Dobbin’s true love was to be crowned with success, the little woman thought that the secret might keep, and indeed, being by no means so much interested about anybody’s welfare as about her own, she had a great number of things pertaining to herself to consider, and which concerned her a great deal more than Major Dobbin’s happiness in this life.
不管贝基的私人计划是什么，多宾的真爱要获得成功，这个小女人认为这个秘密可以保守，事实上，她对任何人的福利都不比对自己的福利更感兴趣，她有一个伟大的愿望。有许多与她有关的事情需要考虑，而这些事情比多宾少校今生的幸福更让她担心。

She found herself suddenly and unexpectedly in snug comfortable quarters, surrounded by friends, kindness, and good-natured simple people such as she had not met with for many a long day; and, wanderer as she was by force and inclination, there were moments when rest was pleasant to her. As the most hardened Arab that ever careered across the desert over the hump of a dromedary likes to repose sometimes under the date-trees by the water, or to come into the cities, walk into the bazaars, refresh himself in the baths, and say his prayers in the mosques, before he goes out again marauding, so Jos’s tents and pilau were pleasant to this little Ishmaelite. She picketed her steed, hung up her weapons, and warmed herself comfortably by his fire. The halt in that roving, restless life was inexpressibly soothing and pleasant to her.
她突然出乎意料地发现自己身处舒适的住处，周围都是朋友、友善和善良的简单人，这些人是她已经很多天没有见过的人了。尽管她出于强迫和爱好而流浪，但有时休息对她来说还是很愉快的。正如曾经骑着单峰驼驼峰穿越沙漠的最坚强的阿拉伯人有时喜欢在水边的枣树下休息，或者进入城市，走进集市，在浴室里提神，然后说他在清真寺里祈祷，然后再出去抢劫，所以乔斯的帐篷和皮劳对这个小以实玛利人来说很愉快。她用栅栏拴住坐骑，挂起武器，用他的火舒服地取暖。那种漂泊、不安的生活的停顿对她来说是难以言表的安慰和愉快。

So, pleased herself, she tried with all her might to please everybody; and we know that she was eminent and successful as a practitioner in the art of giving pleasure. As for Jos, even in that little interview in the garret at the Elephant Inn, she had found means to win back a great deal of his good-will. In the course of a week, the civilian was her sworn slave and frantic admirer. He didn’t go to sleep after dinner, as his custom was in the much less lively society of Amelia. He drove out with Becky in his open carriage. He asked little parties and invented festivities to do her honour.
于是，她为了取悦自己，竭尽全力取悦所有人。我们知道，她是享乐艺术领域杰出且成功的实践者。至于乔斯，即使是在大象旅馆阁楼上的那次小采访中，她也找到了赢得他大量善意的方法。一周之内，这个平民就成了她的宣誓奴隶和疯狂的崇拜者。晚饭后他没有睡觉，因为他的习惯是在阿米莉亚这个不那么热闹的社会里。他带着贝基开着敞篷马车出去了。他举办小型聚会并发明庆祝活动来向她表示敬意。

Tapeworm, the Charge d’Affaires, who had abused her so cruelly, came to dine with Jos, and then came every day to pay his respects to Becky. Poor Emmy, who was never very talkative, and more glum and silent than ever after Dobbin’s departure, was quite forgotten when this superior genius made her appearance. The French Minister was as much charmed with her as his English rival. The German ladies, never particularly squeamish as regards morals, especially in English people, were delighted with the cleverness and wit of Mrs. Osborne’s charming friend, and though she did not ask to go to Court, yet the most august and Transparent Personages there heard of her fascinations and were quite curious to know her. When it became known that she was noble, of an ancient English family, that her husband was a Colonel of the Guard, Excellenz and Governor of an island, only separated from his lady by one of those trifling differences which are of little account in a country where Werther is still read and the Wahlverwandtschaften of Goethe is considered an edifying moral book, nobody thought of refusing to receive her in the very highest society of the little Duchy; and the ladies were even more ready to call her du and to swear eternal friendship for her than they had been to bestow the same inestimable benefits upon Amelia. Love and Liberty are interpreted by those simple Germans in a way which honest folks in Yorkshire and Somersetshire little understand, and a lady might, in some philosophic and civilized towns, be divorced ever so many times from her respective husbands and keep her character in society. Jos’s house never was so pleasant since he had a house of his own as Rebecca caused it to be. She sang, she played, she laughed, she talked in two or three languages, she brought everybody to the house, and she made Jos believe that it was his own great social talents and wit which gathered the society of the place round about him.
曾如此残忍地虐待她的代办绦虫来和乔斯一起吃饭，然后每天都来向贝基表示敬意。可怜的艾美从来不怎么说话，在多宾离开后，她比以往任何时候都更加闷闷不乐，沉默寡言，当这位卓越的天才出现时，她就被完全遗忘了。法国部长和他的英国对手一样对她着迷。德国女士们在道德方面从来没有特别挑剔，尤其是英国人，她们对奥斯本夫人迷人的朋友的聪明才智感到高兴，尽管她没有要求上法庭，但那里最庄严和最透明的人物都听到了她的魅力，并且非常想了解她。当人们知道她是贵族，出身于一个古老的英国家庭，而她的丈夫是一名近卫军上校，是一座岛屿的上校和总督时，他们与他的夫人之间仅存在着一些细微的差别，而这些差别在一个小岛中是微不足道的。在这个仍然有人阅读维特的国家，歌德的《Wahlverwandtschaften》被认为是一本具有启发性的道德书籍，没有人想到拒绝在这个小公国的最高社会中接待她。女士们更愿意称呼她“杜”，并发誓与她永远保持友谊，而不是给予阿米莉亚同样不可估量的好处。那些纯朴的德国人对爱和自由的理解是约克郡和萨默塞特郡的诚实人很少理解的，而在一些哲学和文明的城镇中，一位女士可能会与各自的丈夫离婚多次，但仍能在社会中保持自己的性格。自从乔斯拥有丽贝卡设计的属于自己的房子以来，他的房子从未如此令人愉快。 她唱歌，她玩耍，她大笑，她用两三种语言交谈，她把每个人都带到了家里，她让乔斯相信，正是他自己伟大的社交才能和智慧将当地的社会聚集在他周围。

As for Emmy, who found herself not in the least mistress of her own house, except when the bills were to be paid, Becky soon discovered the way to soothe and please her. She talked to her perpetually about Major Dobbin sent about his business, and made no scruple of declaring her admiration for that excellent, high-minded gentleman, and of telling Emmy that she had behaved most cruelly regarding him. Emmy defended her conduct and showed that it was dictated only by the purest religious principles; that a woman once, &c., and to such an angel as him whom she had had the good fortune to marry, was married forever; but she had no objection to hear the Major praised as much as ever Becky chose to praise him, and indeed, brought the conversation round to the Dobbin subject a score of times every day.
至于艾美，她发现自己根本不是自己家里的女主人，除非要付账单，贝基很快就找到了安抚和取悦她的方法。她不断地跟她谈论多宾少校派来处理他的事务，并毫不犹豫地表达了她对这位优秀、高尚的绅士的钦佩，并告诉艾美她对他的行为非常残忍。艾美为她的行为进行了辩护，并表明这只是由最纯粹的宗教原则决定的；曾经有一个女人，与她有幸嫁给的天使一样，永远结婚了；但她并不反对听到少校受到赞扬，就像贝基选择赞扬他一样多，事实上，每天都会有几十次把话题转到多宾的话题上。

Means were easily found to win the favour of Georgy and the servants. Amelia’s maid, it has been said, was heart and soul in favour of the generous Major. Having at first disliked Becky for being the means of dismissing him from the presence of her mistress, she was reconciled to Mrs. Crawley subsequently, because the latter became William’s most ardent admirer and champion. And in those nightly conclaves in which the two ladies indulged after their parties, and while Miss Payne was ‘brushing their ‘airs,’ as she called the yellow locks of the one and the soft brown tresses of the other, this girl always put in her word for that dear good gentleman Major Dobbin. Her advocacy did not make Amelia angry any more than Rebecca’s admiration of him. She made George write to him constantly and persisted in sending Mamma’s kind love in a postscript. And as she looked at her husband’s portrait of nights, it no longer reproached her—perhaps she reproached it, now William was gone.
赢得乔吉和仆人们好感的方法很容易找到。据说，阿米莉亚的女仆全心全意地支持这位慷慨的少校。起初，她不喜欢贝基，因为她认为贝基是让他离开情妇的手段，后来她与克劳利夫人和解，因为后者成为威廉最热心的崇拜者和拥护者。两位女士在聚会结束后，在每晚举行的秘密会议上，当佩恩小姐“刷着她们的‘架子’，正如她所说的，一位女士的黄色头发和另一位女士的柔软棕色头发时，这个女孩总是把她对这位亲爱的好绅士多宾少校的评价。她的主张并没有让阿米莉亚生气，就像丽贝卡对他的钦佩一样。她让乔治不断地给他写信，并坚持在附言中寄出妈妈的慈爱。当她看着她丈夫的夜晚肖像时，它不再责备她——也许她责备它，现在威廉已经走了。

Emmy was not very happy after her heroic sacrifice. She was very distraite, nervous, silent, and ill to please. The family had never known her so peevish. She grew pale and ill. She used to try to sing certain songs (“Einsam bin ich nicht alleine,’ was one of them, that tender love-song of Weber’s which in old-fashioned days, young ladies, and when you were scarcely born, showed that those who lived before you knew too how to love and to sing) certain songs, I say, to which the Major was partial; and as she warbled them in the twilight in the drawing-room, she would break off in the midst of the song, and walk into her neighbouring apartment, and there, no doubt, take refuge in the miniature of her husband.
艾美英勇牺牲后并不高兴。她非常心烦意乱、紧张、沉默寡言，而且很难取悦。家人从来不知道她这么暴躁。她脸色苍白，病重。她常常尝试唱某些歌曲（“Einsam bin ich nicht alleine”就是其中之一，韦伯的那首温柔的情歌，在老式时代，年轻的女士们，当你们刚刚出生时，表明那些生活在你还知道如何去爱和如何歌唱之前）我说，少校偏爱某些歌曲；当她在客厅的暮色中吟唱这些歌曲时，她会在歌曲中间停下来，走进她邻近的公寓，毫无疑问，在那里，她会躲在她丈夫的缩影里。

Some books still subsisted, after Dobbin’s departure, with his name written in them; a German dictionary, for instance, with ‘William Dobbin, —th Reg.,’ in the fly-leaf; a guide-book with his initials; and one or two other volumes which belonged to the Major. Emmy cleared these away and put them on the drawers, where she placed her work-box, her desk, her Bible, and prayer-book, under the pictures of the two Georges. And the Major, on going away, having left his gloves behind him, it is a fact that Georgy, rummaging his mother’s desk some time afterwards, found the gloves neatly folded up and put away in what they call the secret-drawers of the desk.
多宾离开后，有些书仍然存在，上面写着他的名字。例如，一本德语词典，扉页上写着“William Dobbin, —th Reg.”；一本带有他名字缩写的旅游指南；以及属于少校的其他一两卷。艾米把这些东西清理掉，放在抽屉里，她把工作箱、桌子、圣经和祈祷书放在两个乔治的照片下面。少校离开时，把他的手套留在了身后，事实是，乔吉后来翻遍了他母亲的桌子，发现手套整齐地折叠起来，放在他们所谓的桌子秘密抽屉里。 。

Not caring for society, and moping there a great deal, Emmy’s chief pleasure in the summer evenings was to take long walks with Georgy (during which Rebecca was left to the society of Mr. Joseph), and then the mother and son used to talk about the Major in a way which even made the boy smile. She told him that she thought Major William was the best man in all the world—the gentlest and the kindest, the bravest and the humblest. Over and over again she told him how they owed everything which they possessed in the world to that kind friend’s benevolent care of them; how he had befriended them all through their poverty and misfortunes; watched over them when nobody cared for them; how all his comrades admired him though he never spoke of his own gallant actions; how Georgy’s father trusted him beyond all other men, and had been constantly befriended by the good William. ‘Why, when your papa was a little boy,’ she said, ‘he often told me that it was William who defended him against a tyrant at the school where they were; and their friendship never ceased from that day until the last, when your dear father fell.’
艾美不关心社交，而且总是闷闷不乐，夏天晚上的主要乐趣就是和乔治一起长时间散步（在此期间，丽贝卡被留给了约瑟夫先生的社交），然后母子俩常常聊天关于少校的方式甚至让男孩微笑起来。她告诉他，她认为威廉少校是世界上最好的男人——最温柔、最善良、最勇敢、最谦虚。她一遍又一遍地告诉他，他们所拥有的一切都归功于这位好朋友的仁慈照顾；他如何在他们的贫穷和不幸中与他们成为朋友；当没人关心他们时，照顾他们；尽管他从未提及自己的英勇行为，但他的所有战友都多么钦佩他？乔治的父亲对他的信任超过了所有其他人，并且一直与善良的威廉成为朋友。 “哎呀，当你爸爸还是个小男孩的时候，”她说，“他经常告诉我，是威廉在他们所在的学校里保护他免受暴君的侵害；他是威廉的儿子。”从那天起，直到你亲爱的父亲倒下的最后一刻，他们的友谊从未停止过。”

‘Did Dobbin kill the man who killed Papa?’ Georgy said. ‘I’m sure he did, or he would if he could have caught him, wouldn’t he, Mother? When I’m in the Army, won’t I hate the French?—that’s all.’
“多宾杀了杀死爸爸的人吗？”乔吉问道。 “我确信他做到了，或者如果他能抓住他的话他就会这么做，不是吗，妈妈？当我在军队时，我不会恨法国人吗？——仅此而已。

In such colloquies the mother and the child passed a great deal of their time together. The artless woman had made a confidant of the boy. He was as much William’s friend as everybody else who knew him well.
在这样的谈话中，母亲和孩子一起度过了很多时间。这个天真的女人成了这个男孩的知己。和其他熟悉威廉的人一样，他也是威廉的朋友。

By the way, Mrs. Becky, not to be behind hand in sentiment, had got a miniature too hanging up in her room, to the surprise and amusement of most people, and the delight of the original, who was no other than our friend Jos. On her first coming to favour the Sedleys with a visit, the little woman, who had arrived with a remarkably small shabby kit, was perhaps ashamed of the meanness of her trunks and bandboxes, and often spoke with great respect about her baggage left behind at Leipzig, which she must have from that city. When a traveller talks to you perpetually about the splendour of his luggage, which he does not happen to have with him, my son, beware of that traveller! He is, ten to one, an impostor.
顺便说一句，贝基夫人也不甘落后，在她的房间里也挂了一个微型模型，这让大多数人感到惊讶和好笑，也让原作感到高兴，他正是我们的朋友乔斯。第一次来拜访塞德利夫妇时，这个小女人带着一套非常小的破旧工具到达，也许对她的行李箱和乐队盒的简陋感到羞愧，并且经常非常尊重地谈论她留下的行李后面是莱比锡，她一定是从那个城市得到的。当一个旅行者不断地跟你谈论他的行李多么华丽，而他却没有随身携带这些行李时，我的孩子，要小心那个旅行者！他是个骗子，十比一。

Neither Jos nor Emmy knew this important maxim. It seemed to them of no consequence whether Becky had a quantity of very fine clothes in invisible trunks; but as her present supply was exceedingly shabby, Emmy supplied her out of her own stores, or took her to the best milliner in the town and there fitted her out. It was no more torn collars now, I promise you, and faded silks trailing off at the shoulder. Becky changed her habits with her situation in life—the rouge-pot was suspended—another excitement to which she had accustomed herself was also put aside, or at least only indulged in in privacy, as when she was prevailed on by Jos of a summer evening, Emmy and the boy being absent on their walks, to take a little spirit-and-water. But if she did not indulge—the courier did: that rascal Kirsch could not be kept from the bottle, nor could he tell how much he took when he applied to it. He was sometimes surprised himself at the way in which Mr. Sedley’s Cognac diminished. Well, well, this is a painful subject. Becky did not very likely indulge so much as she used before she entered a decorous family.
乔斯和艾美都不知道这条重要的格言。在他们看来，贝基是否在看不见的箱子里藏有大量精美的衣服似乎并不重要。但由于她目前的货品非常简陋，艾美就从她自己的商店里为她提供货品，或者带她去城里最好的女帽店给她试穿。我向你保证，现在不再是撕破的衣领，也不再是肩部垂落的褪色丝绸。贝基随着她的生活处境改变了她的习惯——胭脂罐被搁置了——她已经习惯的另一种兴奋也被搁置一边，或者至少只是在私下里沉溺其中，就像夏天被乔斯说服时那样。晚上，艾米和男孩外出散步，喝了一点烈酒和水。但如果她不放纵——快递员放纵了：那个无赖的基尔希酒就无法离开瓶子，他也无法知道他在申请时拿了多少。有时他自己也会对塞德利先生的干邑白兰地减少的程度感到惊讶。好吧，好吧，这是一个痛苦的话题。贝基不太可能像她进入一个高雅家庭之前那样放纵。

At last the much-bragged-about boxes arrived from Leipzig; three of them not by any means large or splendid; nor did Becky appear to take out any sort of dresses or ornaments from the boxes when they did arrive. But out of one, which contained a mass of her papers (it was that very box which Rawdon Crawley had ransacked in his furious hunt for Becky’s concealed money), she took a picture with great glee, which she pinned up in her room, and to which she introduced Jos. It was the portrait of a gentleman in pencil, his face having the advantage of being painted up in pink. He was riding on an elephant away from some cocoa-nut trees and a pagoda: it was an Eastern scene.
那些大肆吹嘘的箱子终于从莱比锡运来了。其中三座建筑无论如何都不大，也不华丽；当他们到达时，贝基似乎也没有从盒子里拿出任何衣服或装饰品。但是，她从一个装着大量文件的盒子里（罗登·克劳利在疯狂追捕贝基隐藏的钱财时，翻遍了那个盒子），她兴高采烈地拍了一张照片，把它钉在自己的房间里。她向乔斯介绍了这幅画。这是一位用铅笔画的绅士肖像，他的脸被涂成了粉红色。他骑着大象，远离一些可可树和一座宝塔：这是东方的景色。

‘God bless my soul, it is my portrait,’ Jos cried out. It was he indeed, blooming in youth and beauty, in a nankeen jacket of the cut of 1804. It was the old picture that used to hang up in Russell Square.
“上帝保佑我的灵魂，这是我的肖像，”乔斯喊道。确实是他，青春美丽，穿着 1804 年剪裁的南京夹克。这是罗素广场上曾经挂着的那张旧照片。

‘I bought it,’ said Becky in a voice trembling with emotion; ‘I went to see if I could be of any use to my kind friends. I have never parted with that picture—I never will.’
“我买了它，”贝基激动地说，声音都在颤抖。 “我去看看我能否对我的好朋友们有什么帮助。我从未放弃过那张照片——我永远不会。

‘Won’t you?’ Jos cried with a look of unutterable rapture and satisfaction. ‘Did you really now value it for my sake?’
“你不愿意吗？”乔斯喊道，脸上带着难以言表的狂喜和满足。 “你现在真的为了我而珍惜它吗？”

‘You know I did, well enough,’ said Becky; ‘but why speak—why think—why look back! It is too late now!’
“你知道我做到了，很好，”贝基说。 ‘但是为什么要说话——为什么要思考——为什么要回头看！现在已经太晚了！”

That evening’s conversation was delicious for Jos. Emmy only came in to go to bed very tired and unwell. Jos and his fair guest had a charming tete-a-tete, and his sister could hear, as she lay awake in her adjoining chamber, Rebecca singing over to Jos the old songs of 1815. He did not sleep, for a wonder, that night, any more than Amelia.
那天晚上的谈话对乔斯来说很愉快。艾美只是因为非常疲倦和不适才进来睡觉。乔斯和他美丽的客人进行了一次迷人的面对面交谈，当他的妹妹躺在隔壁的房间里，丽贝卡醒着的时候，她可以听到丽贝卡给乔斯唱 1815 年的老歌。他没有睡觉，这真是奇迹。夜晚，比阿米莉亚更重要。

It was June, and, by consequence, high season in London; Jos, who read the incomparable Galignani (the exile’s best friend) through every day, used to favour the ladies with extracts from his paper during their breakfast. Every week in this paper there is a full account of military movements, in which Jos, as a man who had seen service, was especially interested. On one occasion he read out— ‘Arrival of the —th regiment. Gravesend, June 20.—The Ramchunder, East Indiaman, came into the river this morning, having on board 14 officers, and 132 rank and file of this gallant corps. They have been absent from England fourteen years, having been embarked the year after Waterloo, in which glorious conflict they took an active part, and having subsequently distinguished themselves in the Burmese war. The veteran colonel, Sir Michael O’Dowd, K.C.B., with his lady and sister, landed here yesterday, with Captains Posky, Stubble, Macraw, Malony; Lieutenants Smith, Jones, Thompson, F. Thomson; Ensigns Hicks and Grady; the band on the pier playing the national anthem, and the crowd loudly cheering the gallant veterans as they went into Wayte’s hotel, where a sumptuous banquet was provided for the defenders of Old England. During the repast, which we need not say was served up in Wayte’s best style, the cheering continued so enthusiastically that Lady O’Dowd and the Colonel came forward to the balcony and drank the healths of their fellowcountrymen in a bumper of Wayte’s best claret.’
当时是六月，因此也正是伦敦的旺季。乔斯每天都会阅读无与伦比的加利尼亚尼（流亡者最好的朋友）的著作，他常常在女士们吃早餐时，从他的论文中摘录一些内容来招待她们。这份报纸每周都会对军事行动进行全面报道，乔斯作为一个服役过的人，对这些行动特别感兴趣。有一次，他宣读了——“第—团到达”。格雷夫森德，6 月 20 日。——东印度商号“Ramchunder”号今天早上驶入河中，船上有 14 名军官和这支英勇军团的 132 名普通士兵。他们已经离开英国十四年了，在滑铁卢后的第二年登船，他们积极参与了那场光荣的冲突，随后又在缅甸战争中表现出色。经验丰富的上校迈克尔·奥多德爵士（Sir Michael O'Dowd, K.C.B.）与他的夫人和妹妹昨天登陆这里，同行的还有波斯基（Posky）、斯塔布尔（Stubble）、麦克劳（Macraw）、马洛尼（Malony）上尉。史密斯中尉、琼斯中尉、汤普森中尉、F.汤姆森中尉；希克斯少尉和格雷迪少尉；码头上的乐队奏起了国歌，当这些英勇的退伍军人走进韦特的酒店时，人群大声欢呼，那里为老英格兰的捍卫者们准备了丰盛的宴会。就餐期间，我们不用说，这是以韦特最好的风格提供的，欢呼声如此热烈，以至于奥多德夫人和上校走到阳台上，用一大杯韦特最好的红葡萄酒为同胞的健康干杯。 '

On a second occasion Jos read a brief announcement—Major Dobbin had joined the —th regiment at Chatham; and subsequently he promulgated accounts of the presentations at the Drawing-room of Colonel Sir Michael O’Dowd, K.C.B., Lady O’Dowd (by Mrs. Malloy Malony of Ballymalony), and Miss Glorvina O’Dowd (by Lady O’Dowd). Almost directly after this, Dobbin’s name appeared among the LieutenantColonels: for old Marshal Tiptoff had died during the passage of the —th from Madras, and the Sovereign was pleased to advance Colonel Sir Michael O’Dowd to the rank of Major-General on his return to England, with an intimation that he should be Colonel of the distinguished regiment which he had so long commanded.
乔斯第二次读了一条简短的公告——多宾少校已加入查塔姆的第—团；随后，他公布了迈克尔·奥多德上校爵士、K.C.B.、奥多德夫人（巴利马洛尼的马洛伊·马洛尼夫人）和格洛维娜·奥多德小姐（奥多德夫人）在客厅的演讲记录。几乎就在这之后，多宾的名字出现在中校中：因为老元帅蒂普托夫在从马德拉斯经过时去世，君主很高兴将迈克尔·奥多德上校爵士提升为少将军衔。返回英国，并暗示他将成为他长期指挥的杰出军团的上校。

Amelia had been made aware of some of these movements. The correspondence between George and his guardian had not ceased by any means: William had even written once or twice to her since his departure, but in a manner so unconstrainedly cold that the poor woman felt now in her turn that she had lost her power over him and that, as he had said, he was free. He had left her, and she was wretched. The memory of his almost countless services, and lofty and affectionate regard, now presented itself to her and rebuked her day and night. She brooded over those recollections according to her wont, saw the purity and beauty of the affection with which she had trifled, and reproached herself for having flung away such a treasure.
阿米莉亚已经意识到了其中一些动向。乔治和他的监护人之间的通信并没有以任何方式停止：自从他离开后，威廉甚至给她写过一两次信，但方式如此冷酷无情，以至于现在轮到这个可怜的女人觉得她已经失去了控制的能力。他，正如他所说，他是自由的。他离开了她，她很可怜。他几乎无数次的服务的记忆，以及崇高而深情的关怀，现在出现在她面前，日日夜夜地责备她。她按照自己的习惯沉思着那些回忆，看到了她所轻视的感情的纯洁和美丽，并责备自己把这样的宝贝扔掉了。

It was gone indeed. William had spent it all out. He loved her no more, he thought, as he had loved her. He never could again. That sort of regard, which he had proffered to her for so many faithful years, can’t be flung down and shattered and mended so as to show no scars. The little heedless tyrant had so destroyed it. No, William thought again and again, ‘It was myself I deluded and persisted in cajoling; had she been worthy of the love I gave her, she would have returned it long ago. It was a fond mistake. Isn’t the whole course of life made up of such? And suppose I had won her, should I not have been disenchanted the day after my victory? Why pine, or be ashamed of my defeat?’ The more he thought of this long passage of his life, the more clearly he saw his deception. ‘I’ll go into harness again,’ he said, ‘and do my duty in that state of life in which it has pleased Heaven to place me. I will see that the buttons of the recruits are properly bright and that the sergeants make no mistakes in their accounts. I will dine at mess and listen to the Scotch surgeon telling his stories. When I am old and broken, I will go on half-pay, and my old sisters shall scold me. I have geliebt und gelebet, as the girl in ‘Wallenstein’ says. I am done. Pay the bills and get me a cigar: find out what there is at the play to-night, Francis; to-morrow we cross by the Batavier.’ He made the above speech, whereof Francis only heard the last two lines, pacing up and down the Boompjes at Rotterdam. The Batavier was lying in the basin. He could see the place on the quarter-deck where he and Emmy had sat on the happy voyage out. What had that little Mrs. Crawley to say to him? Psha; to-morrow we will put to sea, and return to England, home, and duty!
它确实消失了。威廉已经花光了所有的钱。他想，他不再爱她了，就像他曾经爱过她一样。他再也不能了。多年来他对她忠诚的那种尊重，不能被扔掉、打碎或修补得不留任何伤痕。那个无心的小暴君就这样毁掉了它。不，威廉一遍又一遍地想，‘我欺骗了我自己，一直在哄骗我；如果她值得我给予她的爱，她早就回报了。这是一个错误的错误。整个人生历程不就是这样构成的吗？假设我赢得了她，胜利后的第二天我不应该感到失望吗？为什么要憔悴，或者为自己的失败感到羞耻呢？”他越是思考自己漫长的人生历程，就越清楚地看到自己的欺骗。 “我会再次穿上马具，”他说，“在上天乐意安排我的生活状态中履行我的职责。”我会检查新兵的按钮是否正确，以及中士的帐目是否有错误。我会在餐厅吃饭，听苏格兰外科医生讲述他的故事。当我年老体弱时，我将继续领半薪，我的老姐妹们会骂我。正如《华伦斯坦》中的女孩所说，我有 geliebt und gelebet。我做完。付账，给我买支雪茄：看看今晚有什么演出，弗朗西斯；他发表了上述讲话，方济各在鹿特丹的邦普杰河上来回踱步，只听到了最后两句。巴塔维尔号躺在盆地里。他可以看到尾甲板上他和艾米在愉快的航行中坐过的地方。小克劳利夫人有什么话要对他说呢？普沙；明天我们将出海，返回英国，回家并履行职责！

After June all the little Court Society of Pumpernickel used to separate, according to the German plan, and make for a hundred watering-places, where they drank at the wells, rode upon donkeys, gambled at the redoutes if they had money and a mind, rushed with hundreds of their kind to gourmandise at the tables d’hote, and idled away the summer. The English diplomatists went off to Teoplitz and Kissingen, their French rivals shut up their chancellerie and whisked away to their darling Boulevard de Gand. The Transparent reigning family took too to the waters, or retired to their hunting lodges. Everybody went away having any pretensions to politeness, and of course, with them, Doctor von Glauber, the Court Doctor, and his Baroness. The seasons for the baths were the most productive periods of the Doctor’s practice—he united business with pleasure, and his chief place of resort was Ostend, which is much frequented by Germans, and where the Doctor treated himself and his spouse to what he called a ‘dib’ in the sea.
六月之后，所有的裸麦小宫廷协会都按照德国的计划分开，建立了一百个饮水场，在那里他们在井边喝水，骑着驴子，如果他们有钱有头脑，就可以在红场赌博。 ，和数百个同类一起去吃定食，消磨夏天。英国外交官前往特奥普利茨和基辛根，他们的法国对手则关闭了总理府，迅速前往他们心爱的甘德大道。透明王族也喜欢到水里去，或者隐退到他们的狩猎小屋。每个人都假装彬彬有礼地离开，当然，和他们一起走的还有冯·格劳伯医生、宫廷医生和他的男爵夫人。洗澡的季节是医生工作效率最高的时期——他把工作与娱乐结合起来，他的主要度假胜地是奥斯坦德，这是德国人经常光顾的地方，医生在那里对待自己和他的妻子，他称之为“奥斯坦德”。海中的“dib”。

His interesting patient, Jos, was a regular milch-cow to the Doctor, and he easily persuaded the civilian, both for his own health’s sake and that of his charming sister, which was really very much shattered, to pass the summer at that hideous seaport town. Emmy did not care where she went much. Georgy jumped at the idea of a move. As for Becky, she came as a matter of course in the fourth place inside of the fine barouche Mr. Jos had bought, the two domestics being on the box in front. She might have some misgivings about the friends whom she should meet at Ostend, and who might be likely to tell ugly stories—but bah! she was strong enough to hold her own. She had cast such an anchor in Jos now as would require a strong storm to shake. That incident of the picture had finished him. Becky took down her elephant and put it into the little box which she had had from Amelia ever so many years ago. Emmy also came off with her Lares—her two pictures—and the party, finally, were, lodged in an exceedingly dear and uncomfortable house at Ostend.
他有趣的病人，乔斯，对医生来说是一头普通的奶牛，他很容易就说服了这位平民，为了他自己的健康，也为了他那迷人的妹妹（她真的很崩溃），在那个可怕的地方度过了夏天。海港镇。艾美不太关心她去了哪里。乔治一想到搬家的想法就兴奋不已。至于贝基，她理所当然地排在乔斯先生买的那辆精美四轮马车内的第四位，两个家畜就在前面的盒子上。她可能对她应该在奥斯坦德见到的朋友以及可能会讲丑陋故事的朋友有些疑虑——但是呸！她足够坚强，能够坚持自己的立场。她现在已经在乔斯下了如此大的锚，需要一场猛烈的风暴才能动摇。那张照片的事件已经结束了他。贝基取下她的大象，把它放进她多年前从阿米莉亚那里得到的小盒子里。艾美还带着她的《拉雷斯》（Lares）——她的两张照片——而聚会最终在奥斯坦德一栋极其昂贵且不舒服的房子里举行。

There Amelia began to take baths and get what good she could from them, and though scores of people of Becky’s acquaintance passed her and cut her, yet Mrs. Osborne, who walked about with her, and who knew nobody, was not aware of the treatment experienced by the friend whom she had chosen so judiciously as a companion; indeed, Becky never thought fit to tell her what was passing under her innocent eyes.
在那里，阿米莉亚开始洗澡，并从中得到她能得到的好处，虽然贝基认识的许多人从她身边经过并割伤了她，但和她一起走来走去的奥斯本夫人谁也不认识，却没有意识到她明智地选择作为同伴的朋友所经历的待遇；事实上，贝基从来不认为有必要告诉她在她天真的眼皮底下发生的事情。

Some of Mrs. Rawdon Crawley’s acquaintances, however, acknowledged her readily enough,—perhaps more readily than she would have desired. Among those were Major Loder (unattached), and Captain Rook (late of the Rifles), who might be seen any day on the Dike, smoking and staring at the women, and who speedily got an introduction to the hospitable board and select circle of Mr. Joseph Sedley. In fact they would take no denial; they burst into the house whether Becky was at home or not, walked into Mrs. Osborne’s drawing-room, which they perfumed with their coats and mustachios, called Jos ‘Old buck,’ and invaded his dinner-table, and laughed and drank for long hours there.
然而，罗登·克劳利夫人的一些熟人却很乐意地承认了她——也许比她所希望的更容易。其中包括洛德少校（未随军）和鲁克上尉（步枪队已故），他们任何一天都可能在堤防上看到他们抽烟，盯着妇女们，很快就认识了热情好客的董事会和精选的圈子。约瑟夫·塞德利先生。事实上，他们不会接受任何否认。无论贝基是否在家，他们都冲进屋子，走进奥斯本太太的客厅，用外套和小胡子给客厅喷香，称乔斯为“老巴克”，并闯入他的餐桌，一边大笑一边喝酒。在那里工作很长时间。

‘What can they mean?’ asked Georgy, who did not like these gentlemen. ‘I heard the Major say to Mrs. Crawley yesterday, ‘No, no, Becky, you shan’t keep the old buck to yourself. We must have the bones in, or, dammy, I’ll split.’ What could the Major mean, Mamma?’
“他们是什么意思？”乔治问道，他不喜欢这些先生。 “我昨天听到少校对克劳利夫人说，‘不，不，贝基，你不能把这个老家伙藏在心里。我们必须把骨头放进去，否则，天哪，我会裂开的。“少校这是什么意思，妈妈？”

‘Major! don’t call him Major!’ Emmy said. ‘I’m sure I can’t tell what he meant.’ His presence and that of his friend inspired the little lady with intolerable terror and aversion. They paid her tipsy compliments; they leered at her over the dinner-table. And the Captain made her advances that filled her with sickening dismay, nor would she ever see him unless she had George by her side.
'主要的！不要叫他少校！”艾美说。 “我确信我听不懂他的意思。”他和他朋友的出现让这位小女士感到难以忍受的恐惧和厌恶。他们对她表示醉意的赞美。他们在餐桌上斜视着她。船长的主动示好让她充满了令人作呕的沮丧，除非乔治在她身边，否则她永远也见不到他。

Rebecca, to do her justice, never would let either of these men remain alone with Amelia; the Major was disengaged too, and swore he would be the winner of her. A couple of ruffians were fighting for this innocent creature, gambling for her at her own table, and though she was not aware of the rascals’ designs upon her, yet she felt a horror and uneasiness in their presence and longed to fly.
公平地说，丽贝卡永远不会让这两个人单独和阿米莉亚在一起。少校也解脱了，并发誓他会赢得她。几个流氓正在为这个无辜的生物而打架，在她自己的桌子上为她赌博，虽然她不知道流氓对她的图谋，但他们的存在让她感到恐惧和不安，渴望飞走。

She besought, she entreated Jos to go. Not he. He was slow of movement, tied to his Doctor, and perhaps to some other leadingstrings. At least Becky was not anxious to go to England.
她恳求，恳求乔斯走。不是他。他动作缓慢，被他的医生绑住了，也许还有其他一些牵绳。至少贝基并不急于去英国。

At last she took a great resolution—made the great plunge. She wrote off a letter to a friend whom she had on the other side of the water, a letter about which she did not speak a word to anybody, which she carried herself to the post under her shawl; nor was any remark made about it, only that she looked very much flushed and agitated when Georgy met her, and she kissed him, and hung over him a great deal that night. She did not come out of her room after her return from her walk. Becky thought it was Major Loder and the Captain who frightened her.
最后她下了一个伟大的决心——勇敢地冒险。她写了一封信给她在水对岸的一个朋友，这封信她没有对任何人说一句话，她把这封信放在披肩下带到了邮局；也没有对此发表任何评论，只是说当乔治见到她时，她看起来非常红润和激动，她吻了他，那天晚上一直在他身上徘徊。散步回来后，她没有走出房间。贝基认为是洛德少校和上尉吓坏了她。

‘She mustn’t stop here,’ Becky reasoned with herself. ‘She must go away, the silly little fool. She is still whimpering after that gaby of a husband—dead (and served right!) these fifteen years. She shan’t marry either of these men. It’s too bad of Loder. No; she shall marry the bamboo cane, I’ll settle it this very night.’
“她不能停在这里，”贝基对自己说。 “她必须走开，这个愚蠢的小傻瓜。”她仍在为那个快活的丈夫而哭泣——已经死了（而且服事了！）十五年了。她不会嫁给这两个男人中的任何一个。洛德太糟糕了。不;她要嫁给竹杖，今晚我就解决了。

So Becky took a cup of tea to Amelia in her private apartment and found that lady in the company of her miniatures, and in a most melancholy and nervous condition. She laid down the cup of tea.
于是贝基在阿米莉亚的私人公寓里给她喝了一杯茶，发现这位女士在她的微型模型的陪伴下，处于一种极其忧郁和紧张的状态。她放下茶杯。

‘Thank you,’ said Amelia.
“谢谢你，”阿米莉亚说。

‘Listen to me, Amelia,’ said Becky, marching up and down the room before the other and surveying her with a sort of contemptuous kindness. ‘I want to talk to you. You must go away from here and from the impertinences of these men. I won’t have you harassed by them: and they will insult you if you stay. I tell you they are rascals: men fit to send to the hulks. Never mind how I know them. I know everybody. Jos can’t protect you; he is too weak and wants a protector himself. You are no more fit to live in the world than a baby in arms. You must marry, or you and your precious boy will go to ruin. You must have a husband, you fool; and one of the best gentlemen I ever saw has offered you a hundred times, and you have rejected him, you silly, heartless, ungrateful little creature!’
“听我说，阿米莉亚，”贝基一边说，一边在另一个人面前在房间里走来走去，用一种轻蔑的善意打量着她。 '我想跟你说话。你必须离开这里，远离这些人的无礼。我不会让你被他们骚扰：如果你留下来，他们会侮辱你。我告诉你，他们都是无赖：适合送去绿巨人那里的人。别管我是怎么认识他们的。我认识每个人。乔斯无法保护你；他太弱了，需要一个自己的保护者。你并不比怀里的婴儿更适合生活在这个世界上。你必须结婚，否则你和你的宝贝儿子都会破产。你必须有一个丈夫，你这个傻瓜；我见过的最好的绅士之一已经向你提出了一百次邀请，但你却拒绝了他，你这个愚蠢、无情、忘恩负义的小家伙！

‘I tried—I tried my best, indeed I did, Rebecca,’ said Amelia deprecatingly, ‘but I couldn’t forget—‘; and she finished the sentence by looking up at the portrait.
“我尽力了——我尽力了，确实做到了，丽贝卡，”阿米莉亚不以为然地说，“但我不能忘记——”；她抬头看着肖像，结束了这句话。

‘Couldn’t forget HIM!’ cried out Becky, ‘that selfish humbug, that low-bred cockney dandy, that padded booby, who had neither wit, nor manners, nor heart, and was no more to be compared to your friend with the bamboo cane than you are to Queen Elizabeth. Why, the man was weary of you, and would have jilted you, but that Dobbin forced him to keep his word. He owned it to me. He never cared for you. He used to sneer about you to me, time after time, and made love to me the week after he married you.’
“忘不了他！”贝基大声喊道，“那个自私的骗子，那个出身低贱的伦敦纨绔子弟，那个厚脸皮的骗子，既没有智慧，也没有礼貌，也没有心胸，根本无法与你的朋友相提并论。”竹杖比你对伊丽莎白女王来说还要重要。哎呀，这个人厌倦了你，本来会抛弃你的，但多宾强迫他信守诺言。他把它归我所有。他从来没有关心过你。他常常在我面前嘲笑你，一次又一次，并在与你结婚后的一周与我做爱。

‘It’s false! It’s false! Rebecca,’ cried out Amelia, starting up.
‘这是假的！这是假的！丽贝卡，”阿米莉亚惊叫道。

‘Look there, you fool,’ Becky said, still with provoking good humour, and taking a little paper out of her belt, she opened it and flung it into Emmy’s lap. ‘You know his handwriting. He wrote that to me—wanted me to run away with him—gave it me under your nose, the day before he was shot—and served him right!’ Becky repeated.
“看那儿，你这个傻瓜，”贝基说，仍然带着挑衅性的幽默感，从腰带上拿出一张小纸片，打开它，把它扔到艾美的腿上。 “你认得他的笔迹。他写信给我——想让我和他一起私奔——在他被枪杀的前一天，在你眼皮子底下给了我——他活该！”贝基重复道。

Emmy did not hear her; she was looking at the letter. It was that which George had put into the bouquet and given to Becky on the night of the Duchess of Richmond’s ball. It was as she said: the foolish young man had asked her to fly.
艾美没有听到她的声音；她正在看那封信。这是乔治在里士满公爵夫人舞会当晚放入花束送给贝基的。正如她所说：那个愚蠢的年轻人让她飞。

Emmy’s head sank down, and for almost the last time in which she shall be called upon to weep in this history, she commenced that work. Her head fell to her bosom, and her hands went up to her eyes; and there for a while, she gave way to her emotions, as Becky stood on and regarded her. Who shall analyse those tears and say whether they were sweet or bitter? Was she most grieved because the idol of her life was tumbled down and shivered at her feet, or indignant that her love had been so despised, or glad because the barrier was removed which modesty had placed between her and a new, a real affection? ‘There is nothing to forbid me now,’ she thought. ‘I may love him with all my heart now. Oh, I will, I will, if he will but let me and forgive me.’ I believe it was this feeling rushed over all the others which agitated that gentle little bosom.
艾美的头垂了下来，几乎是她最后一次在这段历史中哭泣，她开始了这项工作。她把头埋在怀里，双手举到眼睛上。有一段时间，当贝基站在她身边看着她时，她屈服于自己的情绪。谁来分析那些眼泪，说它是甜还是苦？她最悲伤的是因为她生命中的偶像被推倒在脚下瑟瑟发抖，还是因为她的爱情遭到如此轻视而感到愤慨，还是因为谦虚在她与新的、真正的感情之间设置的障碍被消除而感到高兴？ “现在没有什么可以阻止我了，”她想。 “我现在可能全心全意地爱他。哦，我会的，我会的，如果他愿意的话，只要让我原谅我。’我相信正是这种感觉涌上心头，激动了那温柔的小胸膛。

Indeed, she did not cry so much as Becky expected—the other soothed and kissed her—a rare mark of sympathy with Mrs. Becky. She treated Emmy like a child and patted her head. ‘And now let us get pen and ink and write to him to come this minute,’ she said.
事实上，她并没有像贝基想象的那样哭得那么厉害——对方安抚并亲吻了她——这是对贝基夫人罕见的同情。她像对待孩子一样对待艾米，并拍拍她的头。 “现在让我们拿起笔和墨水，写信给他，让他马上来，”她说。

‘I—I wrote to him this morning,’ Emmy said, blushing exceedingly. Becky screamed with laughter—‘Un biglietto,’ she sang out with Rosina, ‘eccolo qua!’—the whole house echoed with her shrill singing.
“我——我今天早上给他写了信，”艾米说，脸红得厉害。贝基放声大笑——“Un biglietto”，她和罗西娜一起唱道，“eccolo qua！”——整个房子都回荡着她尖锐的歌声。

Two mornings after this little scene, although the day was rainy and gusty, and Amelia had had an exceedingly wakeful night, listening to the wind roaring, and pitying all travellers by land and by water, yet she got up early and insisted upon taking a walk on the Dike with Georgy; and there she paced as the rain beat into her face, and she looked out westward across the dark sea line and over the swollen billows which came tumbling and frothing to the shore. Neither spoke much, except now and then, when the boy said a few words to his timid companion, indicative of sympathy and protection.
这一幕发生后的两天早晨，尽管那天下着雨，刮着阵风，阿米莉亚听着风的呼啸声，可怜着所有陆路和水路的旅人，度过了一个彻夜难眠的夜晚，但她还是早早起床，坚持要走一趟路。和乔治一起在堤坝上散步；她在那里踱步，雨水打在她的脸上，她向西眺望，越过黑暗的海线，越过汹涌的巨浪，翻滚着，泛着泡沫，冲向岸边。两人都不怎么说话，除了男孩时不时地对他胆怯的同伴说几句话，表示同情和保护。

‘I hope he won’t cross in such weather,’ Emmy said.
“我希望他不会在这样的天气下穿越，”艾美说。

‘I bet ten to one he does,’ the boy answered. ‘Look, Mother, there’s the smoke of the steamer.’ It was that signal, sure enough.
“我打赌他会这么做，”男孩回答道。 “妈妈，你看，轮船冒烟了。”果然，这就是那个信号。

But though the steamer was under way, he might not be on board; he might not have got the letter; he might not choose to come. A hundred fears poured one over the other into the little heart, as fast as the waves on to the Dike.
不过，虽然轮船已经在航行了，但他可能并不在船上。他可能没有收到这封信；他可能不会选择来。一百种恐惧一个接一个地涌入这颗小小的心，就像海浪冲上堤坝一样快。

The boat followed the smoke into sight. Georgy had a dandy telescope and got the vessel under view in the most skilful manner. And he made appropriate nautical comments upon the manner of the approach of the steamer as she came nearer and nearer, dipping and rising in the water. The signal of an English steamer in sight went fluttering up to the mast on the pier. I daresay Mrs. Amelia’s heart was in a similar flutter.
小船随着烟雾进入了视线。乔治有一架漂亮的望远镜，他以最熟练的方式观察到了这艘船。当汽船越来越近、在水中浸入和升起时，他对汽船接近的方式做出了适当的航海评论。视线内一艘英国轮船的信号飘扬到码头的桅杆上。我敢说阿米莉亚夫人的心也有类似的颤动。

Emmy tried to look through the telescope over George’s shoulder, but she could make nothing of it. She only saw a black eclipse bobbing up and down before her eyes.
艾美试图越过乔治的肩膀通过望远镜观察，但她什么也看不见。她只看到一道黑色的日食在她眼前上下晃动。

George took the glass again and raked the vessel. ‘How she does pitch!’ he said. ‘There goes a wave slap over her bows. There’s only two people on deck besides the steersman. There’s a man lying down, and a—chap in a—cloak with a—Hooray!—it’s Dob, by Jingo!’ He clapped to the telescope and flung his arms round his mother. As for that lady, let us say what she did in the words of a favourite poet—‘Dakruoen gelasasa.’ She was sure it was William. It could be no other. What she had said about hoping that he would not come was all hypocrisy. Of course he would come; what could he do else but come? She knew he would come.
乔治再次拿起玻璃杯，耙了容器。 “她的投球技术怎么样！”他说。 “一阵海浪拍打着她的船头。甲板上除了舵手外就只有两个人。有一个男人躺着，还有一个——穿着斗篷的小伙子，带着——万岁！——金戈，是多布！”他向望远镜拍手，用双臂搂住他的母亲。至于那位女士，让我们用一位最喜欢的诗人的话来形容她所做的事情——“Dakruoen gelasasa”。她确信那是威廉。不可能是别的。她所说的希望他不要来，都是虚伪的。他当然会来；除了来他还能做什么呢？她知道他会来。

The ship came swiftly nearer and nearer. As they went in to meet her at the landing-place at the quay, Emmy’s knees trembled so that she scarcely could run. She would have liked to kneel down and say her prayers of thanks there. Oh, she thought, she would be all her life saying them!
船很快就越来越近了。当他们去码头的登陆处迎接她时，艾米的膝盖颤抖着，几乎无法奔跑。她真想跪下来，祈祷感谢。哦，她想，她会一辈子都在说这些话！

It was such a bad day that as the vessel came alongside of the quay there were no idlers abroad, scarcely even a commissioner on the look out for the few passengers in the steamer. That young scapegrace George had fled too, and as the gentleman in the old cloak lined with red stuff stepped on to the shore, there was scarcely any one present to see what took place, which was briefly this:
天气如此糟糕，当轮船靠岸时，国外没有闲人，甚至连一个专员在照顾轮船上的少数乘客。那个年轻的流氓乔治也逃走了，当那位穿着旧斗篷、衬着红色东西的绅士踏上岸边时，几乎没有人在场看到发生了什么，简要来说是这样的：

A lady in a dripping white bonnet and shawl, with her two little hands out before her, went up to him, and in the next minute she had altogether disappeared under the folds of the old cloak, and was kissing one of his hands with all her might; whilst the other, I suppose, was engaged in holding her to his heart (which her head just about reached) and in preventing her from tumbling down. She was murmuring something about—forgive—dear William—dear, dear, dearest friend—kiss, kiss, kiss, and so forth—and in fact went on under the cloak in an absurd manner.
一位戴着滴水的白色帽子和披肩的女士，伸出两只小手，走到他面前，下一分钟，她就完全消失在旧斗篷的褶皱下，用力地亲吻着他的一只手。她的力量；我想，另一个人正忙着把她抱在胸前（她的头刚好够到心脏），防止她摔倒。她低声嘀咕着一些关于——原谅——亲爱的威廉——亲爱的、亲爱的、最亲爱的朋友——亲吻、亲吻、亲吻等等——事实上，她在斗篷下以一种荒谬的方式继续说下去。

When Emmy emerged from it, she still kept tight hold of one of William’s hands, and looked up in his face. It was full of sadness and tender love and pity. She understood its reproach and hung down her head.
当艾米从里面出来时，她仍然紧紧握住威廉的一只手，抬头看着他的脸。那充满了悲伤、温柔的爱和怜悯。她明白了它的责备，低下了头。

‘It was time you sent for me, dear Amelia,’ he said.
“是时候你派人来找我了，亲爱的阿米莉亚，”他说。

‘You will never go again, William?’
“你再也不会去了，威廉？”

‘No, never,’ he answered, and pressed the dear little soul once more to his heart.
“不，从来没有。”他回答道，并再次将这个可爱的小灵魂压在心上。

As they issued out of the custom-house precincts, Georgy broke out on them, with his telescope up to his eye, and a loud laugh of welcome; he danced round the couple and performed many facetious antics as he led them up to the house. Jos wasn’t up yet; Becky not visible (though she looked at them through the blinds). Georgy ran off to see about breakfast. Emmy, whose shawl and bonnet were off in the passage in the hands of Mrs. Payne, now went to undo the clasp of William’s cloak, and—we will, if you please, go with George, and look after breakfast for the Colonel. The vessel is in port. He has got the prize he has been trying for all his life. The bird has come in at last. There it is with its head on his shoulder, billing and cooing close up to his heart, with soft outstretched fluttering wings. This is what he has asked for every day and hour for eighteen years. This is what he pined after. Here it is—the summit, the end—the last page of the third volume. Good-bye, Colonel—God bless you, honest William!—Farewell, dear Amelia—Grow green again, tender little parasite, round the rugged old oak to which you cling!
当他们走出海关辖区时，乔治向他们冲了过来，他把望远镜举到眼前，大声笑起来表示欢迎。他在这对夫妇周围跳舞，并在领他们进屋时表演了许多滑稽的滑稽动作。乔斯还没有起床；贝基看不见（尽管她透过百叶窗看着他们）。乔治跑去看看早餐的事。艾美的围巾和帽子在佩恩夫人手中的过道里脱落了，现在她去解开威廉斗篷的扣子，而且——如果你愿意的话，我们将和乔治一起去，并为上校准备早餐。该船已停泊在港口。他得到了他一生都在努力的奖赏。鸟儿终于进来了。它的头靠在他的肩膀上，靠近他的心脏，咕咕地叫着，翅膀柔软地伸展着，扑腾着。这是他十八年来日日夜夜所要求的。这就是他所向往的。这是——顶峰，结束——第三卷的最后一页。再见，上校——上帝保佑你，诚实的威廉！——再会，亲爱的阿米莉亚——在你紧抓的那棵崎岖不平的老橡树周围，又长出绿色来，温柔的小寄生虫！

Perhaps it was compunction towards the kind and simple creature, who had been the first in life to defend her, perhaps it was a dislike to all such sentimental scenes—but Rebecca, satisfied with her part in the transaction, never presented herself before Colonel Dobbin and the lady whom he married. ‘Particular business,’ she said, took her to Bruges, whither she went, and only Georgy and his uncle were present at the marriage ceremony. When it was over, and Georgy had rejoined his parents, Mrs. Becky returned (just for a few days) to comfort the solitary bachelor, Joseph Sedley. He preferred a continental life, he said, and declined to join in housekeeping with his sister and her husband.
也许是对这个善良而单纯的生物的愧疚，这个生物是生命中第一个保护她的人，也许是对所有这些感伤的场景感到厌恶——但丽贝卡对自己在交易中所扮演的角色感到满意，从未在多宾上校面前出现过。以及他所娶的那位女士。 “有特殊的事情，”她说，带她去了布鲁日，她去了那里，只有乔治和他的叔叔出席了婚礼。一切结束后，乔治回到了父母身边，贝基夫人也回来了（仅仅几天）安慰孤独的单身汉约瑟夫·塞德利。他说，他更喜欢欧陆式生活，并且拒绝与姐姐和姐姐的丈夫一起做家务。

Emmy was very glad in her heart to think that she had written to her husband before she read or knew of that letter of George’s. ‘I knew it all along,’ William said; ‘but could I use that weapon against the poor fellow’s memory? It was that which made me suffer so when you—‘
艾美心里很高兴，想到自己在读到或知道乔治的那封信之前就已经写信给她的丈夫了。 “我一直都知道，”威廉说。 “但是我可以用那个武器来对抗这个可怜人的记忆吗？”这就是让我痛苦的原因，所以当你——”

‘Never speak of that day again,’ Emmy cried out, so contrite and humble that William turned off the conversation by his account of Glorvina and dear old Peggy O’Dowd, with whom he was sitting when the letter of recall reached him. ‘If you hadn’t sent for me,’ he added with a laugh, ‘who knows what Glorvina’s name might be now?’
“永远不要再提起那一天，”艾美喊道，语气如此悔悟和谦虚，以至于威廉通过讲述格洛维娜和亲爱的老佩吉·奥多德来结束了谈话，当召回信到达他时，他正坐在他们身边。 “如果你没有派人来找我，”他笑着补充道，“谁知道格洛维娜现在叫什么名字呢？”

At present it is Glorvina Posky (now Mrs. Major Posky); she took him on the death of his first wife, having resolved never to marry out of the regiment. Lady O’Dowd is also so attached to it that, she says, if anything were to happen to Mick, bedad she’d come back and marry some of ‘em. But the Major-General is quite well and lives in great splendour at O’Dowdstown, with a pack of beagles, and (with the exception of perhaps their neighbour, Hoggarty of Castle Hoggarty) he is the first man of his county. Her Ladyship still dances jigs, and insisted on standing up with the Master of the Horse at the Lord Lieutenant’s last ball. Both she and Glorvina declared that Dobbin had used the latter SHEAMFULLY, but Posky falling in, Glorvina was consoled, and a beautiful turban from Paris appeased the wrath of Lady O’Dowd.
目前是格洛维娜·波斯基（Glorvina Posky）（现在是梅杰·波斯基夫人）；她在他的第一任妻子去世后接受了他，并决心永远不再与军团以外的人结婚。奥多德夫人也对此非常着迷，她说，如果米克出了什么事，她会回来娶他们中的一些人。但少将身体很好，在奥多兹敦过着富丽堂皇的生活，养着一群小猎犬，而且（也许他们的邻居霍加蒂城堡的霍加蒂除外）他是他所在县的第一人。夫人仍然跳吉格舞，并坚持在中尉的最后一次舞会上与马主站在一起。她和格洛维娜都声称多宾使用了后者，但波斯基陷入了困境，格洛维娜得到了安慰，一条来自巴黎的漂亮头巾平息了奥多德夫人的愤怒。

When Colonel Dobbin quitted the service, which he did immediately after his marriage, he rented a pretty little country place in Hampshire, not far from Queen’s Crawley, where, after the passing of the Reform Bill, Sir Pitt and his family constantly resided now. All idea of a Peerage was out of the question, the Baronet’s two seats in Parliament being lost. He was both out of pocket and out of spirits by that catastrophe, failed in his health, and prophesied the speedy ruin of the Empire.
多宾上校在结婚后立即辞去了职务，他在汉普郡租了一个漂亮的小乡间别墅，距离女王克劳利不远，改革法案通过后，皮特爵士和他的家人现在一直居住在那里。所有贵族头衔的想法都已不再可能，从男爵在议会中的两个席位也随之消失。这场灾难使他身无分文，精神萎靡，健康状况也不佳，并预言帝国将迅速毁灭。

Lady Jane and Mrs. Dobbin became great friends—there was a perpetual crossing of pony-chaises between the Hall and the Evergreens, the Colonel’s place (rented of his friend Major Ponto, who was abroad with his family). Her Ladyship was godmother to Mrs. Dobbin’s child, which bore her name, and was christened by the Rev. James Crawley, who succeeded his father in the living: and a pretty close friendship subsisted between the two lads, George and Rawdon, who hunted and shot together in the vacations, were both entered of the same college at Cambridge, and quarrelled with each other about Lady Jane’s daughter, with whom they were both, of course, in love. A match between George and that young lady was long a favourite scheme of both the matrons, though I have heard that Miss Crawley herself inclined towards her cousin.
简夫人和多宾夫人成了好朋友——在大厅和常青树之间有一个永久的小马车，上校的住所（租给他的朋友庞托少校，他和家人一起在国外）。夫人是多宾夫人孩子的教母，孩子以她的名字命名，并由牧师詹姆斯·克劳利（James Crawley）命名，詹姆斯·克劳利牧师在世继承了他的父亲：乔治和罗登这两个打猎的小伙子之间有着非常亲密的友谊。两人在假期里一起被拍摄，进入了剑桥的同一所大学，并为简夫人的女儿而争吵，当然，他们都深爱着她。乔治和那位年轻女士之间的比赛长期以来一直是两位主妇最喜欢的计划，尽管我听说克劳利小姐本人更倾向于她的表弟。

Mrs. Rawdon Crawley’s name was never mentioned by either family. There were reasons why all should be silent regarding her. For wherever Mr. Joseph Sedley went, she travelled likewise, and that infatuated man seemed to be entirely her slave. The Colonel’s lawyers informed him that his brother-in-law had effected a heavy insurance upon his life, whence it was probable that he had been raising money to discharge debts. He procured prolonged leave of absence from the East India House, and indeed, his infirmities were daily increasing.
两个家庭都没有提到罗登·克劳利夫人的名字。所有人都应该对她保持沉默，这是有原因的。因为约瑟夫·塞德利先生走到哪里，她也走到哪里，而那个痴情的男人似乎完全是她的奴隶。上校的律师告诉他，他的妹夫为他投了一份巨额的生命保险，因此他很可能一直在筹集资金来偿还债务。他从东印度大厦请了很长时间的假，事实上，他的身体状况与日俱增。

On hearing the news about the insurance, Amelia, in a good deal of alarm, entreated her husband to go to Brussels, where Jos then was, and inquire into the state of his affairs. The Colonel quitted home with reluctance (for he was deeply immersed in his History of the Punjaub which still occupies him, and much alarmed about his little daughter, whom he idolizes, and who was just recovering from the chicken-pox) and went to Brussels and found Jos living at one of the enormous hotels in that city. Mrs. Crawley, who had her carriage, gave entertainments, and lived in a very genteel manner, occupied another suite of apartments in the same hotel.
听到有关保险的消息后，阿米莉亚非常惊慌，恳求她的丈夫前往乔斯当时所在的布鲁塞尔，了解他的情况。上校不情愿地离开了家（因为他深深地沉浸在《旁遮普的历史》中，这本书至今仍在他的心头萦绕，而且对他崇拜的、刚刚从水痘中恢复过来的小女儿感到非常震惊），前往布鲁塞尔发现乔斯住在该市的一家大酒店里。克劳利夫人拥有马车，招待客人，生活十分优雅，她住在同一家旅馆的另一套公寓里。

The Colonel, of course, did not desire to see that lady, or even think proper to notify his arrival at Brussels, except privately to Jos by a message through his valet. Jos begged the Colonel to come and see him that night, when Mrs. Crawley would be at a soiree, and when they could meet alone. He found his brother-in-law in a condition of pitiable infirmity—and dreadfully afraid of Rebecca, though eager in his praises of her. She tended him through a series of unheard-of illnesses with a fidelity most admirable. She had been a daughter to him. ‘But—but—oh, for God’s sake, do come and live near me, and—and—see me sometimes,’ whimpered out the unfortunate man.
当然，上校不想见到那位女士，甚至不想通知他抵达布鲁塞尔，除非通过他的贴身男仆私下给乔斯发消息。乔斯恳求上校那天晚上来看他，当时克劳利夫人会参加晚会，而且他们可以单独见面。他发现他的姐夫体弱多病，非常害怕丽贝卡，尽管他热切地赞扬她。她以令人钦佩的忠诚照顾了他一系列闻所未闻的疾病。她曾是他的女儿。 “但是——但是——哦，看在上帝的份上，请你来住在我附近，并且——并且——有时来看我，”这个不幸的人呜咽道。

The Colonel’s brow darkened at this. ‘We can’t, Jos,’ he said. ‘Considering the circumstances, Amelia can’t visit you.’
想到这里，上校的眉头沉了下来。 “我们不能，乔斯，”他说。 “考虑到目前的情况，阿米莉亚不能来看你。”

‘I swear to you—I swear to you on the Bible,’ gasped out Joseph, wanting to kiss the book, ‘that she is as innocent as a child, as spotless as your own wife.’
“我向你发誓——我凭《圣经》向你发誓，”约瑟夫气喘吁吁地说道，想要亲吻这本书，“她像个孩子一样天真，像你自己的妻子一样一尘不染。”

‘It may be so,’ said the Colonel gloomily, ‘but Emmy can’t come to you. Be a man, Jos: break off this disreputable connection. Come home to your family. We hear your affairs are involved.’
“也许是这样，”上校郁闷地说，“但艾美奖不能来找你。”做个男人吧，乔斯：断绝这种不名誉的联系。回家与家人团聚吧。我们听说涉及到你的事务。

‘Involved!’ cried Jos. ‘Who has told such calumnies? All my money is placed out most advantageously. Mrs. Crawley—that is—I mean— it is laid out to the best interest.’
“牵涉其中！”乔斯喊道，“谁说过这样的诽谤的话？我所有的钱都以最有利的方式投入。克劳利夫人——也就是说——我的意思是——它是为了最大利益而设计的。

‘You are not in debt, then? Why did you insure your life?’
‘那你没有欠债吧？你为什么要给自己的生命投保？

‘I thought—a little present to her—in case anything happened; and you know my health is so delicate—common gratitude you know—and I intend to leave all my money to you—and I can spare it out of my income, indeed I can,’ cried out William’s weak brother-in-law.
“我想——给她送点小礼物——以防万一发生什么事情；你知道我的健康如此脆弱——你知道这是普遍的感激之情——我打算把我所有的钱都留给你——我可以从我的收入中拿出来，确实可以，”威廉虚弱的姐夫喊道。

The Colonel besought Jos to fly at once—to go back to India, whither Mrs. Crawley could not follow him; to do anything to break off a connection which might have the most fatal consequences to him.
上校恳求乔斯立即飞回印度，克劳利夫人无法跟随他去那里。不惜一切代价切断可能对他造成最致命后果的联系。

Jos clasped his hands and cried, ‘He would go back to India. He would do anything, only he must have time: they mustn’t say anything to Mrs. Crawley—she’d—she’d kill me if she knew it. You don’t know what a terrible woman she is,’ the poor wretch said.
乔斯双手合十，哭道：“他要回印度。”他愿意做任何事情，只是他必须有时间：他们不能对克劳利夫人说任何话——她会——她如果知道的话会杀了我。你不知道她是一个多么可怕的女人，”可怜的可怜虫说道。

‘Then, why not come away with me?’ said Dobbin in reply; but Jos had not the courage. ‘He would see Dobbin again in the morning; he must on no account say that he had been there. He must go now. Becky might come in.’ And Dobbin quitted him, full of forebodings.
“那么，为什么不跟我走呢？”多宾回答道。但乔斯没有勇气。 “早上他会再次见到多宾；他决不能说他去过那里。他现在必须走了。贝基可能会进来。”杜宾满怀不祥的预感，离开了他。

He never saw Jos more. Three months afterwards Joseph Sedley died at Aix-la-Chapelle. It was found that all his property had been muddled away in speculations, and was represented by valueless shares in different bubble companies. All his available assets were the two thousand pounds for which his life was insured, and which were left equally between his beloved ‘sister Amelia, wife of, &c., and his friend and invaluable attendant during sickness, Rebecca, wife of Lieutenant-Colonel Rawdon Crawley, C.B.,’ who was appointed administratrix.
他再也没有见过乔斯。三个月后，约瑟夫·塞德利在艾克斯拉夏贝尔去世。结果发现，他的所有财产都被炒得一团糟，并以不同泡沫公司毫无价值的股票为代表。他所有的可用资产都是为他的生命投保的两千英镑，这笔钱均分给他心爱的妹妹阿米莉亚，等人的妻子，以及他的朋友和生病期间的无价侍者丽贝卡，中校的妻子。罗登·克劳利 (Rawdon Crawley, C.B.) 被任命为行政管理员。

The solicitor of the insurance company swore it was the blackest case that ever had come before him, talked of sending a commission to Aix to examine into the death, and the Company refused payment of the policy. But Mrs., or Lady Crawley, as she styled herself, came to town at once (attended with her solicitors, Messrs. Burke, Thurtell, and Hayes, of Thavies Inn) and dared the Company to refuse the payment. They invited examination, they declared that she was the object of an infamous conspiracy, which had been pursuing her all through life, and triumphed finally. The money was paid, and her character established, but Colonel Dobbin sent back his share of the legacy to the insurance office and rigidly declined to hold any communication with Rebecca.
保险公司的律师发誓这是他遇到过的最黑暗的案件，并谈到要派一个委员会到艾克斯调查死亡情况，但公司拒绝支付保单。但克劳利夫人，或者她自称的克劳利夫人，立即来到城里（与她的律师，塔维斯旅馆的伯克先生、瑟特尔先生和海耶斯先生一起出席），并敢于挑战公司拒绝付款。他们邀请审查，宣布她是一个臭名昭著的阴谋的目标，这个阴谋一生都在追捕她，并最终取得了胜利。钱已经付了，她的品格也确立了，但多宾上校将他那份遗产退还给保险公司，并坚决拒绝与丽贝卡进行任何沟通。

She never was Lady Crawley, though she continued so to call herself. His Excellency Colonel Rawdon Crawley died of yellow fever at Coventry Island, most deeply beloved and deplored, and six weeks before the demise of his brother, Sir Pitt. The estate consequently devolved upon the present Sir Rawdon Crawley, Bart.
她从来都不是克劳利夫人，尽管她仍然这样称呼自己。罗登·克劳利上校阁下因黄热病在考文垂岛去世，人们深爱着他，也深感悲痛，此时他的兄弟皮特爵士去世前六周。该遗产随后移交给现任巴特·罗登·克劳利爵士。

He, too, has declined to see his mother, to whom he makes a liberal allowance, and who, besides, appears to be very wealthy. The Baronet lives entirely at Queen’s Crawley, with Lady Jane and her daughter, whilst Rebecca, Lady Crawley, chiefly hangs about Bath and Cheltenham, where a very strong party of excellent people consider her to be a most injured woman. She has her enemies. Who has not? Her life is her answer to them. She busies herself in works of piety. She goes to church, and never without a footman. Her name is in all the Charity Lists. The destitute orange-girl, the neglected washerwoman, the distressed muffin-man find in her a fast and generous friend. She is always having stalls at Fancy Fairs for the benefit of these hapless beings. Emmy, her children, and the Colonel, coming to London some time back, found themselves suddenly before her at one of these fairs. She cast down her eyes demurely and smiled as they started away from her; Emmy scurrying off on the arm of George (now grown a dashing young gentleman) and the Colonel seizing up his little Janey, of whom he is fonder than of anything in the world—fonder even than of his History of the Punjaub.
他也拒绝见他的母亲，他给她慷慨的津贴，而且她看起来也很富有。从男爵与简夫人和她的女儿完全住在女王克劳利，而克劳利夫人丽贝卡主要在巴斯和切尔滕纳姆闲逛，那里有一群非常强大的优秀人士认为她是最受伤害的女人。她有她的敌人。谁没有呢？她的生活就是她对他们的答案。她忙于虔诚的工作。她去教堂，从来不带男仆。她的名字出现在所有慈善机构名单上。贫穷的橙色女孩、被忽视的洗衣女工、苦恼的松饼工都在她身上找到了一位快速而慷慨的朋友。她总是在时装博览会上摆摊，为这些不幸的人谋福利。艾美、她的孩子们和上校不久前来到伦敦，突然发现自己出现在其中一个集市上。当他们离开她时，她端庄地垂下眼睛，微笑着。艾美挽着乔治（现在已成为一位风度翩翩的年轻绅士）的手臂匆匆而去，上校抓住了他的小珍妮，他对她的喜爱超过了世界上的任何事物，甚至比他的《旁遮普史》还要喜爱。

‘Fonder than he is of me,’ Emmy thinks with a sigh But he never said a word to Amelia that was not kind and gentle, or thought of a want of hers that he did not try to gratify.
“比他更喜欢我。”艾美叹了口气，想道。但他从来没有对阿米莉亚说过任何不友善、不温柔的话，也没有想到她有什么需要他不去满足。

Ah! Vanitas Vanitatum! which of us is happy in this world? Which of us has his desire? or, having it, is satisfied?—come, children, let us shut up the box and the puppets, for our play is played out.
啊!瓦尼塔瓦尼塔图姆！在这个世界上，我们谁是幸福的？我们谁有他的愿望？或者说，有了它，就满足了？——来吧，孩子们，让我们把盒子和木偶关上，因为我们的游戏已经结束了。