
Wuthering Heights
呼啸山庄

By Emily Bronte
艾米莉·勃朗特

Chapter I
第一章

1801. I have just returned from a visit to my landlord the solitary neighbour that I shall be troubled with. This is certainly a beautiful country! In all England, I do not believe that I could have fixed on a situation so completely removed from the stir of society. A perfect misanthropist’s heaven: and Mr. Heathcliff and I are such a suitable pair to divide the desolation between us. A capital fellow! He little imagined how my heart warmed towards him when I beheld his black eyes withdraw so suspiciously under their brows, as I rode up, and when his fingers sheltered themselves, with a jealous resolution, still further in his waistcoat, as I announced my name.
1801. 我刚刚拜访了我的房东，他是我将要遇到的孤独邻居。这当然是一个美丽的国家！在整个英国，我不相信我能够如此彻底地远离社会的喧嚣。一个完美的厌世者的天堂：而希刺克厉夫先生和我是最适合分担荒凉的一对。资本家啊！当我骑着马走上前去时，当我看到他的黑色眼睛可疑地缩回眉心下时，当我宣布我的名字时，当他的手指以一种嫉妒的决心将自己藏在背心里时，他几乎没有想象到我的心是如何对他感到温暖的。 。

‘Mr. Heathcliff?’ I said.
'先生。 “希斯克利夫？”我说。

A nod was the answer.
点头就是答案。

‘Mr. Lockwood, your new tenant, sir. I do myself the honour of calling as soon as possible after my arrival, to express the hope that I have not inconvenienced you by my perseverance in soliciting the occupation of Thrushcross Grange: I heard yesterday you had had some thoughts ‘
'先生。洛克伍德，您的新房客，先生。我很荣幸在抵达后尽快给您打电话，希望我坚持不懈地争取占领画眉田庄不会给您带来不便：我昨天听说您有一些想法“

‘Thrushcross Grange is my own, sir,’ he interrupted, wincing. ‘I should not allow any one to inconvenience me, if I could hinder it walk in!’
“画眉田庄是我自己的，先生，”他皱起眉头打断道。 “如果我能阻止它走进来，我就不会让任何人给我带来不便！”

The ‘walk in’ was uttered with closed teeth, and expressed the sentiment, ‘Go to the Deuce:’ even the gate over which he leant manifested no sympathising movement to the words; and I think that circumstance determined me to accept the invitation: I felt interested in a man who seemed more exaggeratedly reserved than myself.
“走进来”是他咬紧牙关说出来的，表达了一种情感：“去死吧”：甚至他所倚靠的那扇门也没有对这句话表现出同情的动作；我认为这种情况决定了我接受邀请：我对一个看起来比我更加保守的男人感兴趣。

When he saw my horse’s breast fairly pushing the barrier, he did put out his hand to unchain it, and then sullenly preceded me up the causeway, calling, as we entered the court, ‘Joseph, take Mr. Lockwood’s horse; and bring up some wine.’
当他看到我的马的胸部相当大地推开栅栏时，他确实伸出手来解开它，然后闷闷不乐地在我前面走上堤道，当我们进入法庭时，他喊道：“约瑟夫，牵走洛克伍德先生的马；快来吧！”并端上一些酒来。

‘Here we have the whole establishment of domestics, I suppose,’ was the reflection suggested by this compound order. ‘No wonder the grass grows up between the flags, and cattle are the only hedgecutters.’
“我想，这里我们拥有完整的家畜设施，”这是这个复合命令所暗示的反映。 “难怪旗帜之间长满了青草，而牛是唯一的树篱修剪者。”

Joseph was an elderly, nay, an old man: very old, perhaps, though hale and sinewy. ‘The Lord help us!’ he soliloquised in an undertone of peevish displeasure, while relieving me of my horse: looking, meantime, in my face so sourly that I charitably conjectured he must have need of divine aid to digest his dinner, and his pious ejaculation had no reference to my unexpected advent.
约瑟夫是一位老人，不，是一位老人：也许很老，尽管他精神矍铄、肌肉发达。 “上帝保佑我们！”他一边放开我的马，一边低声自言自语，语气里充满了暴躁的不满：同时，他看着我的脸，表情如此酸楚，以至于我仁慈地推测他一定需要神的帮助来消化他的晚餐，以及他的食物。虔诚的射精与我的意外降临无关。

Wuthering Heights is the name of Mr. Heathcliff’s dwelling. ‘Wuthering’ being a significant provincial adjective, descriptive of the atmospheric tumult to which its station is exposed in stormy weather. Pure, bracing ventilation they must have up there at all times, indeed: one may guess the power of the north wind blowing over the edge, by the excessive slant of a few stunted firs at the end of the house; and by a range of gaunt thorns all stretching their limbs one way, as if craving alms of the sun. Happily, the architect had foresight to build it strong: the narrow windows are deeply set in the wall, and the corners defended with large jutting stones.
呼啸山庄是希斯克利夫先生住宅的名称。 “呼啸”是一个重要的省级形容词，描述了该站在暴风雨天气下所遭受的大气骚动。事实上，他们在上面必须始终保持纯净、令人振奋的通风：人们可以通过房子尽头的几棵矮小的冷杉过度倾斜来猜测从边缘吹过的北风的力量；周围是一系列枯瘦的荆棘，它们的四肢都向一个方向伸展，仿佛渴望太阳的施舍。令人高兴的是，建筑师有远见，把它建造得坚固：狭窄的窗户深深地嵌在墙上，角落里用大块突出的石头防护。

Before passing the threshold, I paused to admire a quantity of grotesque carving lavished over the front, and especially about the principal door; above which, among a wilderness of crumbling griffins and shameless little boys, I detected the date ‘1500,’ and the name ‘Hareton Earnshaw.’ I would have made a few comments, and requested a short history of the place from the surly owner; but his attitude at the door appeared to demand my speedy entrance, or complete departure, and I had no desire to aggravate his impatience previous to inspecting the penetralium.
在跨过门槛之前，我停下来欣赏门前大量的怪诞雕刻，尤其是正门周围的雕刻。在上面，在一片摇摇欲坠的狮鹫和无耻小男孩的荒野中，我发现了日期“1500”和名字“哈里顿·恩肖”。我本来会发表一些评论，并要求脾气暴躁的主人简要介绍一下这个地方的历史;但他在门口的态度似乎要求我迅速进入，或者完全离开，我不想在检查渗透室之前加剧他的不耐烦。

One stop brought us into the family sitting-room, without any introductory lobby or passage: they call it here ‘the house’ preeminently. It includes kitchen and parlour, generally; but I believe at Wuthering Heights the kitchen is forced to retreat altogether into another quarter: at least I distinguished a chatter of tongues, and a clatter of culinary utensils, deep within; and I observed no signs of roasting, boiling, or baking, about the huge fireplace; nor any glitter of copper saucepans and tin cullenders on the walls. One end, indeed, reflected splendidly both light and heat from ranks of immense pewter dishes, interspersed with silver jugs and tankards, towering row after row, on a vast oak dresser, to the very roof. The latter had never been under-drawn: its entire anatomy lay bare to an inquiring eye, except where a frame of wood laden with oatcakes and clusters of legs of beef, mutton, and ham, concealed it. Above the chimney were sundry villainous old guns, and a couple of horse-pistols: and, by way of ornament, three gaudily-painted canisters disposed along its ledge. The floor was of smooth, white stone; the chairs, high-backed, primitive structures, painted green: one or two heavy black ones lurking in the shade. In an arch under the dresser reposed a huge, liver-coloured bitch pointer, surrounded by a swarm of squealing puppies; and other dogs haunted other recesses.
一站我们就进入了家庭起居室，没有任何介绍性的大厅或通道：他们在这里称其为“房子”。一般包括厨房和客厅；但我相信在呼啸山庄，厨房被迫完全撤退到另一个季度：至少我在里面听到了舌头的喋喋不休和烹饪器具的碰撞声；我在巨大的壁炉周围没有看到任何烘烤、煮沸或烘烤的迹象。墙上也没有闪闪发光的铜锅和锡锅。事实上，一端，一排排巨大的锡盘反射着光和热，这些盘中散布着银壶和酒杯，一排又一排地高耸在一个巨大的橡木梳妆台上，直到屋顶。后者从来都没有被画得不足：它的整个解剖结构都暴露在好奇的眼睛面前，除了一个装满燕麦饼和牛腿、羊腿和火腿的木架将其隐藏起来。烟囱上方放着各种邪恶的旧枪，还有几把马手枪；作为装饰，沿烟囱的壁架放置了三个涂着艳丽色彩的罐子。地板是光滑的白色石头铺成的。椅子是高背的，结构原始，漆成绿色：一两把厚重的黑色椅子潜伏在阴凉处。梳妆台下的拱门里放着一只巨大的肝色母狗指针，周围是一群尖叫的小狗。和其他狗出没的其他凹处。

The apartment and furniture would have been nothing extraordinary as belonging to a homely, northern farmer, with a stubborn countenance, and stalwart limbs set out to advantage in kneebreeches and gaiters. Such an individual seated in his arm-chair, his mug of ale frothing on the round table before him, is to be seen in any circuit of five or six miles among these hills, if you go at the right time after dinner. But Mr. Heathcliff forms a singular contrast to his abode and style of living. He is a darkskinned gipsy in aspect, in dress and manners a gentleman: that is, as much a gentleman as many a country squire: rather slovenly, perhaps, yet not looking amiss with his negligence, because he has an erect and handsome figure; and rather morose. Possibly, some people might suspect him of a degree of under-bred pride; I have a sympathetic chord within that tells me it is nothing of the sort: I know, by instinct, his reserve springs from an aversion to showy displays of feeling to manifestations of mutual kindliness. He’ll love and hate equally under cover, and esteem it a species of impertinence to be loved or hated again. No, I’m running on too fast: I bestow my own attributes over-liberally on him. Mr. Heathcliff may have entirely dissimilar reasons for keeping his hand out of the way when he meets a would-be acquaintance, to those which actuate me. Let me hope my constitution is almost peculiar: my dear mother used to say I should never have a comfortable home; and only last summer I proved myself perfectly unworthy of one.
这套公寓和家具对于一个朴素的北方农民来说并没有什么特别的，他有着顽固的面容，粗壮的四肢，穿着及膝马裤和绑腿。如果你晚饭后在正确的时间去的话，在这些山间任何五六英里的环路上都可以看到这样一个人坐在扶手椅上，他的啤酒杯在他面前的圆桌上冒着泡沫。但希斯克利夫先生与他的住所和生活方式形成了鲜明的对比。从外表上看，他是一个黑皮肤的吉普赛人，从衣着和举止上看，他是个绅士：也就是说，他和许多乡村乡绅一样是个绅士：也许有些邋遢，但他的粗心大意却并没有什么不妥，因为他有一个挺拔而英俊的身材；而且相当郁闷。可能有些人会怀疑他有某种程度的缺乏教养的骄傲；我内心有一种同情心，告诉我事实并非如此：我本能地知道，他的矜持源于对表现出相互友善的感情的厌恶。他会在掩饰下同样地爱和恨，并认为再次被爱或被恨是一种无礼的行为。不，我跑得太快了：我过度慷慨地将自己的属性赋予了他。希刺克厉夫先生在遇到一位潜在的熟人时不把手伸开的原因可能与促使我完全不同的原因不同。让我希望我的体质几乎是特殊的：我亲爱的母亲曾经说过，我永远不应该有一个舒适的家;就在去年夏天，我证明自己完全不配。

While enjoying a month of fine weather at the sea-coast, I was thrown into the company of a most fascinating creature: a real goddess in my eyes, as long as she took no notice of me. I ‘never told my love’ vocally; still, if looks have language, the merest idiot might have guessed I was over head and ears: she understood me at last, and looked a return the sweetest of all imaginable looks. And what did I do? I confess it with shame shrunk icily into myself, like a snail; at every glance retired colder and farther; till finally the poor innocent was led to doubt her own senses, and, overwhelmed with confusion at her supposed mistake, persuaded her mamma to decamp. By this curious turn of disposition I have gained the reputation of deliberate heartlessness; how undeserved, I alone can appreciate.
在海边享受一个月的好天气时，我遇到了一个最迷人的生物：只要她不理我，她就是我眼中真正的女神。我“从未口头说出我的爱”；不过，如果外表有语言的话，哪怕是最白痴的人也可能会猜到我已经听不懂了：她终于明白了我的意思，并且看起来是所有可以想象到的最甜蜜的表情。我做了什么？我羞愧地承认这一点，像一只蜗牛一样，冰冷地缩进了自己的身体里；每看一眼，就会变得更加寒冷和遥远；直到最后，这个可怜的无辜者开始怀疑自己的感觉，并对自己的错误感到困惑，最终说服了妈妈逃跑。由于这种奇怪的性格转变，我赢得了故意无情的名声。多么冤枉，只有我能体会。

I took a seat at the end of the hearthstone opposite that towards which my landlord advanced, and filled up an interval of silence by attempting to caress the canine mother, who had left her nursery, and was sneaking wolfishly to the back of my legs, her lip curled up, and her white teeth watering for a snatch. My caress provoked a long, guttural gnarl.
我在炉石尽头的座位上坐下来，与房东走向的方向相对，并试图抚摸狗妈妈来填补沉默，她已经离开了她的育儿室，狼狈地溜到了我的腿后面，她的嘴唇翘起来，洁白的牙齿流着口水，想要咬一口。我的爱抚激起了喉咙里的长长的咕咕声。

‘You’d better let the dog alone,’ growled Mr. Heathcliff in unison, checking fiercer demonstrations with a punch of his foot. ‘She’s not accustomed to be spoiled not kept for a pet.’ Then, striding to a side door, he shouted again, ‘Joseph!’
“你最好别管那条狗。”希刺克厉夫先生异口同声地咆哮道，同时用脚一拳制止了更激烈的示威。 “她不习惯被宠坏，也不习惯被当作宠物。”然后，他大步走到侧门，再次喊道：“约瑟夫！”

Joseph mumbled indistinctly in the depths of the cellar, but gave no intimation of ascending; so his master dived down to him, leaving me VIS-A-VIS the ruffianly bitch and a pair of grim shaggy sheep-dogs, who shared with her a jealous guardianship over all my movements. Not anxious to come in contact with their fangs, I sat still; but, imagining they would scarcely understand tacit insults, I unfortunately indulged in winking and making faces at the trio, and some turn of my physiognomy so irritated madam, that she suddenly broke into a fury and leapt on my knees. I flung her back, and hastened to interpose the table between us. This proceeding aroused the whole hive: half-a-dozen four-footed fiends, of various sizes and ages, issued from hidden dens to the common centre. I felt my heels and coat-laps peculiar subjects of assault; and parrying off the larger combatants as effectually as I could with the poker, I was constrained to demand, aloud, assistance from some of the household in re-establishing peace.
约瑟夫在地窖深处含糊不清地咕哝着，但没有表示要上去。于是他的主人俯身扑向他，留下我与那个恶棍母狗和一对毛茸茸的毛茸茸的冷酷牧羊犬面对面，它们和她一起嫉妒地守护着我的一举一动。我并不急于接触它们的尖牙，而是一动不动地坐着。但是，想象着他们几乎无法理解默示的侮辱，我不幸地沉迷于对这三个人眨眼、做鬼脸，我的相貌的某些变化让夫人很恼火，她突然勃然大怒，跳到我的膝盖上。我把她推开，赶紧把桌子插在我们之间。这一举动惊动了整个蜂巢：六只不同体型和年龄的四足恶魔从隐蔽的巢穴涌向公共中心。我感到我的脚后跟和衣领成为攻击的特殊对象；我用扑克牌尽可能有效地击退了更大的战斗人员，我不得不大声要求一些家庭成员帮助重建和平。

Mr. Heathcliff and his man climbed the cellar steps with vexatious phlegm: I don’t think they moved one second faster than usual, though the hearth was an absolute tempest of worrying and yelping. Happily, an inhabitant of the kitchen made more despatch: a lusty dame, with tucked-up gown, bare arms, and fire-flushed cheeks, rushed into the midst of us flourishing a frying-pan: and used that weapon, and her tongue, to such purpose, that the storm subsided magically, and she only remained, heaving like a sea after a high wind, when her master entered on the scene.
希刺克厉夫先生和他的手下带着烦人的痰爬上了地窖的台阶：我不认为他们比平常走得快一秒，尽管壁炉里绝对是一场充满担忧和尖叫的风暴。令人高兴的是，厨房里的一位居民发出了更多的消息：一位精力充沛的女士，穿着卷起的长袍，裸露着手臂，脸颊通红，挥舞着煎锅冲进我们中间：并使用了那件武器和她的舌头就这样，风暴神奇地平息了，只有当她的主人出现时，她才像狂风过后的大海一样起伏不定。

‘What the devil is the matter?’ he asked, eyeing me in a manner that I could ill endure, after this inhospitable treatment.
“到底是怎么回事？”他问道，用一种我在经历了这种不友善的对待之后无法忍受的眼神看着我。

‘What the devil, indeed!’ I muttered. ‘The herd of possessed swine could have had no worse spirits in them than those animals of yours, sir. You might as well leave a stranger with a brood of tigers!’
“真是见鬼了！”我嘀咕道。 “这群被附身的猪的精神并不比您的那些动物更糟糕，先生。你还不如把一群老虎留给一个陌生人！”

‘They won’t meddle with persons who touch nothing,’ he remarked, putting the bottle before me, and restoring the displaced table. ‘The dogs do right to be vigilant. Take a glass of wine?’
“他们不会干涉那些不碰任何东西的人，”他说道，把瓶子放在我面前，并恢复了移位的桌子。 “狗保持警惕是正确的。来一杯酒吗？

‘No, thank you.’
'不，谢谢。'

‘Not bitten, are you?’
“你没被咬吧？”

‘If I had been, I would have set my signet on the biter.’ Heathcliff’s countenance relaxed into a grin.
“如果我是的话，我会把我的图章戴在咬人的身上。”希刺克厉夫的脸上露出了笑容。

‘Come, come,’ he said, ‘you are flurried, Mr. Lockwood. Here, take a little wine. Guests are so exceedingly rare in this house that I and my dogs, I am willing to own, hardly know how to receive them. Your health, sir?’
“得了，得了，”他说，“你很慌张，洛克伍德先生。来，喝一点酒。这所房子里的客人非常罕见，以至于我和我的狗（我愿意拥有）几乎不知道如何接待他们。先生，您身体健康吗？

I bowed and returned the pledge; beginning to perceive that it would be foolish to sit sulking for the misbehaviour of a pack of curs; besides, I felt loth to yield the fellow further amusement at my expense; since his humour took that turn. He probably swayed by prudential consideration of the folly of offending a good tenant relaxed a little in the laconic style of chipping off his pronouns and auxiliary verbs, and introduced what he supposed would be a subject of interest to me, a discourse on the advantages and disadvantages of my present place of retirement. I found him very intelligent on the topics we touched; and before I went home, I was encouraged so far as to volunteer another visit to-morrow. He evidently wished no repetition of my intrusion. I shall go, notwithstanding. It is astonishing how sociable I feel myself compared with him.
我鞠了一躬，还了誓言；开始意识到，坐在那里为一群狗的不当行为生闷气是愚蠢的；此外，我不愿意让这个家伙以我为代价进一步取笑。自从他的幽默发生了转变。他可能出于对冒犯好房客的愚蠢行为的谨慎考虑而动摇，在删掉代词和助动词的简洁风格中放松了一点，并介绍了他认为我感兴趣的主题，关于优点和缺点的论述。我目前退休地点的缺点。我发现他对我们接触到的话题非常聪明。在我回家之前，我受到鼓励，自愿明天再次拜访。他显然不希望我再次闯入。尽管如此，我还是要去。与他相比，我感觉自己多么善于交际，真是令人惊讶。

Chapter II
第二章

YESTERDAY afternoon set in misty and cold. I had half a mind to spend it by my study fire, instead of wading through heath and mud to Wuthering Heights. On coming up from dinner, however, (N.B. I dine between twelve and one o’clock; the housekeeper, a matronly lady, taken as a fixture along with the house, could not, or would not, comprehend my request that I might be served at five) on mounting the stairs with this lazy intention, and stepping into the room, I saw a servant-girl on her knees surrounded by brushes and coal-scuttles, and raising an infernal dust as she extinguished the flames with heaps of cinders. This spectacle drove me back immediately; I took my hat, and, after a four-miles’ walk, arrived at Heathcliff’s garden-gate just in time to escape the first feathery flakes of a snow-shower.
昨天下午，雾气弥漫，天气寒冷。我有点想在书房的篝火旁度过这段时间，而不是趟过荒野和泥泞去呼啸山庄。然而，吃完晚饭后，（注：我在十二点到一点之间进餐；管家，一位主妇，与房子一起被视为固定设施，无法或不会理解我的要求，即我可以五点钟）带着这种懒惰的意图爬上楼梯，走进房间，我看到一个女仆跪在地上，周围环绕着刷子和煤斗，当她用成堆的煤渣扑灭火焰时，扬起了可恶的灰尘。这一幕让我立刻回过神来。我拿起帽子，走了四英里，到达希刺克厉夫的花园门口，正好避开了第一场羽毛般的阵雪。

On that bleak hill-top the earth was hard with a black frost, and the air made me shiver through every limb. Being unable to remove the chain, I jumped over, and, running up the flagged causeway bordered with straggling gooseberry-bushes, knocked vainly for admittance, till my knuckles tingled and the dogs howled.
在那座荒凉的山顶上，大地结着一层黑色的霜，坚硬无比，空气让我四肢发抖。由于无法取下链条，我跳了过去，跑上铺着石板的堤道，堤道周围长满了散乱的醋栗灌木丛，徒劳地敲门以求进入，直到我的指节刺痛，狗嚎叫起来。

‘Wretched inmates!’ I ejaculated, mentally, ‘you deserve perpetual isolation from your species for your churlish inhospitality. At least, I would not keep my doors barred in the day-time. I don’t care I will get in!’ So resolved, I grasped the latch and shook it vehemently. Vinegar-faced Joseph projected his head from a round window of the barn.
“可怜的囚犯们！”我在心里喊道，“你们应该因为你们的粗鲁冷漠而永远与你们的种族隔离。”至少，白天我不会把门关上。我不在乎我能进去！”我下定决心，抓住门闩，用力摇晃。约瑟夫一脸醋意地把头从谷仓的圆窗里伸出来。

‘What are ye for?’ he shouted. ‘T’ maister’s down i’ t’ fowld. Go round by th’ end o’ t’ laith, if ye went to spake to him.’
“你们来干什么？”他喊道。主人倒下了。如果你们去跟他说话的话，就到莱斯的尽头去吧。

‘Is there nobody inside to open the door?’ I hallooed, responsively.
“里面没人开门吗？”我回应道，大声喊道。

‘There’s nobbut t’ missis; and shoo’ll not oppen ‘t an ye mak’ yer flaysome dins till neeght.’
‘有nobbut t’小姐；直到需要为止，你不会打开你那些令人讨厌的喧嚣。

‘Why? Cannot you tell her whom I am, eh, Joseph?’
'为什么？你不能告诉她我是谁吗，呃，约瑟夫？

‘Nor-ne me! I’ll hae no hend wi’t,’ muttered the head, vanishing.
‘也不是我！ “我不会这么做的。”头颅低声说道，然后消失了。

The snow began to drive thickly. I seized the handle to essay another trial; when a young man without coat, and shouldering a pitchfork, appeared in the yard behind. He hailed me to follow him, and, after marching through a wash-house, and a paved area containing a coal-shed, pump, and pigeon-cot, we at length arrived in the huge, warm, cheerful apartment where I was formerly received. It glowed delightfully in the radiance of an immense fire, compounded of coal, peat, and wood; and near the table, laid for a plentiful evening meal, I was pleased to observe the ‘missis,’ an individual whose existence I had never previously suspected. I bowed and waited, thinking she would bid me take a seat. She looked at me, leaning back in her chair, and remained motionless and mute.
雪开始下得很厚。我抓住了机会，准备再进行一次审判；这时，一个没穿外套、肩扛干草叉的年轻人出现在后面的院子里。他招呼我跟他走，穿过一间洗衣房和一片铺有煤棚、水泵和鸽棚的铺砌区域后，我们终于到达了我以前住的那间宽敞、温暖、令人愉快的公寓。已收到。它在由煤、泥炭和木头混合而成的巨大火焰的光芒下闪闪发光。在餐桌旁，我准备享用一顿丰盛的晚餐，我很高兴地看到了“小姐”，一个我以前从未怀疑过的人。我鞠躬等待，以为她会请我坐下。她看着我，靠在椅子上，一动不动，一言不发。

‘Rough weather!’ I remarked. ‘I’m afraid, Mrs. Heathcliff, the door must bear the consequence of your servants’ leisure attendance: I had hard work to make them hear me.’
“天气恶劣！”我评论道。 “希刺克厉夫夫人，恐怕这扇门必须承担您仆人闲暇时的后果：我花了很多功夫才让他们听到我的声音。”

She never opened her mouth. I stared she stared also: at any rate, she kept her eyes on me in a cool, regardless manner, exceedingly embarrassing and disagreeable.
她始终没有张开嘴。我凝视着她，她也凝视着我，总之，她的目光一直冷漠地看着我，一副不管不顾的样子，令人尴尬又不舒服。

‘Sit down,’ said the young man, gruffly. ‘He’ll be in soon.’
“坐下。”年轻人粗声粗气地说。 “他很快就会来。”

I obeyed; and hemmed, and called the villain Juno, who deigned, at this second interview, to move the extreme tip of her tail, in token of owning my acquaintance.
我服从了；她哼了一声，给恶棍朱诺打电话，在第二次采访中，她屈尊移动了尾巴的末端，以表示承认我是熟人。

‘A beautiful animal!’ I commenced again. ‘Do you intend parting with the little ones, madam?’
“一只美丽的动物！”我又开始说道。 “女士，您打算和小孩子们分开吗？”

‘They are not mine,’ said the amiable hostess, more repellingly than Heathcliff himself could have replied.
“它们不是我的。”和蔼可亲的女主人说，语气比希刺克厉夫本人还要令人反感。

‘Ah, your favourites are among these?’ I continued, turning to an obscure cushion full of something like cats.
“啊，你最喜欢的是这些？”我继续说道，转向一个不起眼的垫子，垫子上装满了猫之类的东西。

‘A strange choice of favourites!’ she observed scornfully.
“对最爱的选择很奇怪！”她轻蔑地评论道。

Unluckily, it was a heap of dead rabbits. I hemmed once more, and drew closer to the hearth, repeating my comment on the wildness of the evening.
不幸的是，那是一堆死兔子。我再次皱起眉头，靠近壁炉，重复着我对夜晚的狂野的评论。

‘You should not have come out,’ she said, rising and reaching from the chimney-piece two of the painted canisters.
“你不应该出来，”她说，站起身来，从烟囱上伸出两个彩绘的罐子。

Her position before was sheltered from the light; now, I had a distinct view of her whole figure and countenance. She was slender, and apparently scarcely past girlhood: an admirable form, and the most exquisite little face that I have ever had the pleasure of beholding; small features, very fair; flaxen ringlets, or rather golden, hanging loose on her delicate neck; and eyes, had they been agreeable in expression, that would have been irresistible: fortunately for my susceptible heart, the only sentiment they evinced hovered between scorn and a kind of desperation, singularly unnatural to be detected there. The canisters were almost out of her reach; I made a motion to aid her; she turned upon me as a miser might turn if any one attempted to assist him in counting his gold.
之前她所在的位置是避光的；现在，我清楚地看到了她的整个身材和面容。她身材苗条，显然刚刚过了少女时代：她的身材令人赞叹，她的小脸是我有幸见过的最精致的小脸。小功能，很公平；亚麻色的卷发，或者更确切地说是金色的，松散地垂在她精致的脖子上；还有眼睛，如果它们的表情令人愉快的话，那将是不可抗拒的：幸运的是，对于我敏感的心来说，它们所表现出的唯一情感徘徊在轻蔑和一种绝望之间，在那里被发现是非常不自然的。罐子几乎在她够不到的地方；我做了一个要帮助她的动作；她转向我，就像一个守财奴可能会转向我，如果有人试图帮助他数金子的话。

‘I don’t want your help,’ she snapped; ‘I can get them for myself.’
“我不需要你的帮助，”她厉声说道。 “我可以自己去拿。”

‘I beg your pardon!’ I hastened to reply.
“请原谅！”我连忙回答。

‘Were you asked to tea?’ she demanded, tying an apron over her neat black frock, and standing with a spoonful of the leaf poised over the pot.
“有人请你喝茶吗？”她问道，一边在整洁的黑色连衣裙上系上围裙，一边站着，把一勺茶叶放在茶壶上。

‘I shall be glad to have a cup,’ I answered.
“我很高兴能喝到一杯，”我回答道。

‘Were you asked?’ she repeated.
“有人问过你吗？”她重复道。

‘No,’ I said, half smiling. ‘You are the proper person to ask me.’
“不，”我半笑着说。 “你是问我的合适人选。”

She flung the tea back, spoon and all, and resumed her chair in a pet; her forehead corrugated, and her red under-lip pushed out, like a child’s ready to cry.
她把茶连同勺子一起扔了回去，然后又坐回了椅子上。她的额头皱起，红色的下唇向外突出，就像一个即将哭泣的孩子。

Meanwhile, the young man had slung on to his person a decidedly shabby upper garment, and, erecting himself before the blaze, looked down on me from the corner of his eyes, for all the world as if there were some mortal feud unavenged between us. I began to doubt whether he were a servant or not: his dress and speech were both rude, entirely devoid of the superiority observable in Mr. and Mrs. Heathcliff; his thick brown curls were rough and uncultivated, his whiskers encroached bearishly over his cheeks, and his hands were embrowned like those of a common labourer: still his bearing was free, almost haughty, and he showed none of a domestic’s assiduity in attending on the lady of the house. In the absence of clear proofs of his condition, I deemed it best to abstain from noticing his curious conduct; and, five minutes afterwards, the entrance of Heathcliff relieved me, in some measure, from my uncomfortable state.
与此同时，年轻人身上披着一件明显破旧的上衣，在火焰前站了起来，用眼角的余光俯视着我，仿佛我们之间有什么未报的世仇。 。我开始怀疑他到底是不是仆人：他的衣着和言语都很粗鲁，完全没有希刺克厉夫夫妇的优越感；他浓密的棕色卷发粗糙而未经教养，胡须凶狠地侵占了脸颊，双手像普通工人一样长满了褐色的东西：但他的举止却很自由，几乎是傲慢，他没有表现出一个家庭的勤奋。女主人。由于没有明确的证据证明他的状况，我认为最好不要注意到他的奇怪行为。五分钟后，希斯克利夫的到来在某种程度上缓解了我的不舒服状态。

‘You see, sir, I am come, according to promise!’ I exclaimed, assuming the cheerful; ‘and I fear I shall be weather-bound for half an hour, if you can afford me shelter during that space.’
“您瞧，先生，我按照诺言来了！”我假装高兴地喊道。 “如果你能在这段时间为我提供庇护的话，我担心我会受天气影响半个小时。”

‘Half an hour?’ he said, shaking the white flakes from his clothes; ‘I wonder you should select the thick of a snow-storm to ramble about in. Do you know that you run a risk of being lost in the marshes? People familiar with these moors often miss their road on such evenings; and I can tell you there is no chance of a change at present.’
“半小时？”他一边说，一边抖掉衣服上的白色薄片。 “我不知道你应该选择在暴风雪中漫步。你知道你有在沼泽地里迷路的危险吗？”熟悉这些荒原的人常常会在这样的夜晚错过他们的路。我可以告诉你，目前没有改变的机会。

‘Perhaps I can get a guide among your lads, and he might stay at the Grange till morning could you spare me one?’
“也许我可以在你们的小伙子们中间找一个向导，他可能会在田庄待到早上，你能给我一个向导吗？”

‘No, I could not.’
“不，我不能。”

‘Oh, indeed! Well, then, I must trust to my own sagacity.’
‘噢，确实如此！好吧，那么，我必须相信自己的智慧。

‘Umph!’
“嗯！”

‘Are you going to mak’ the tea?’ demanded he of the shabby coat, shifting his ferocious gaze from me to the young lady.
“你要泡茶吗？”他问那件破旧的外套，将凶恶的目光从我身上移到那位年轻女士身上。

‘Is HE to have any?’ she asked, appealing to Heathcliff.
“他有吗？”她向希刺克厉夫问道。

‘Get it ready, will you?’ was the answer, uttered so savagely that I started. The tone in which the words were said revealed a genuine bad nature. I no longer felt inclined to call Heathcliff a capital fellow. When the preparations were finished, he invited me with ‘Now, sir, bring forward your chair.’ And we all, including the rustic youth, drew round the table: an austere silence prevailing while we discussed our meal.
“准备好，好吗？”他的回答如此粗鲁，让我吃了一惊。说话的语气，透露出了真正的坏脾气。我不再愿意称希刺克厉夫为大人物。准备工作完成后，他邀请我说：“现在，先生，请把你的椅子移过来。”我们所有人，包括乡村年轻人，都围坐在桌子旁：当我们讨论我们的饭菜时，周围一片严肃的沉默。

I thought, if I had caused the cloud, it was my duty to make an effort to dispel it. They could not every day sit so grim and taciturn; and it was impossible, however ill-tempered they might be, that the universal scowl they wore was their every-day countenance.
我想，如果乌云是我造成的，我就有责任努力驱散它。他们不可能每天都这么严肃、沉默寡言地坐着。无论他们的脾气多么暴躁，他们的表情都不可能是他们日常的表情。

‘It is strange,’ I began, in the interval of swallowing one cup of tea and receiving another ‘it is strange how custom can mould our tastes and ideas: many could not imagine the existence of happiness in a life of such complete exile from the world as you spend, Mr. Heathcliff; yet, I’ll venture to say, that, surrounded by your family, and with your amiable lady as the presiding genius over your home and heart ‘
“这很奇怪，”我在吞下一杯茶和接受另一杯茶的间隙开始说，“奇怪的是，习俗如何塑造我们的品味和想法：许多人无法想象在如此完全放逐的生活中存在幸福。”希斯克利夫先生，你所度过的世界；然而，我敢说，在你的家人的包围下，还有你和蔼可亲的女士作为你的家庭和心灵的主持天才’

‘My amiable lady!’ he interrupted, with an almost diabolical sneer on his face. ‘Where is she my amiable lady?’
“我可爱的女士！”他打断道，脸上挂着近乎邪恶的冷笑。 “我可爱的女士她在哪里？”

‘Mrs. Heathcliff, your wife, I mean.’
'太太。我是说希刺克厉夫，你的妻子。

‘Well, yes oh, you would intimate that her spirit has taken the post of ministering angel, and guards the fortunes of Wuthering Heights, even when her body is gone. Is that it?’
‘好吧，是的哦，你会暗示她的灵魂已经担任了侍奉天使，守护着呼啸山庄的财富，即使她的身体已经消失了。是这样吗？

Perceiving myself in a blunder, I attempted to correct it. I might have seen there was too great a disparity between the ages of the parties to make it likely that they were man and wife. One was about forty: a period of mental vigour at which men seldom cherish the delusion of being married for love by girls: that dream is reserved for the solace of our declining years. The other did not look seventeen.
我意识到自己犯了错误，并试图改正它。我可能已经看到双方的年龄差距太大，不可能是夫妻。其中一个是四十岁左右：这是一个精神旺盛的时期，男人很少怀有为爱情而嫁给女孩的幻想：这个梦想是为我们晚年的安慰而保留的。另一个看起来不像十七岁。

Then it flashed on me ‘The clown at my elbow, who is drinking his tea out of a basin and eating his broad with unwashed hands, may be her husband: Heathcliff junior, of course. Here is the consequence of being buried alive: she has thrown herself away upon that boor from sheer ignorance that better individuals existed! A sad pity I must beware how I cause her to regret her choice.’ The last reflection may seem conceited; it was not. My neighbour struck me as bordering on repulsive; I knew, through experience, that I was tolerably attractive.
然后我的脑海里闪过‘我手边那个正在用盆子喝茶、用没洗过的手吃肉的小丑，可能是她的丈夫：当然是小希刺克厉夫了。这就是被活埋的后果：她完全不知道存在更好的人，所以把自己扔到了那个乡巴佬身上！遗憾的是，我必须小心我如何让她后悔自己的选择。不是。我的邻居让我觉得近乎令人厌恶。根据经验，我知道我相当有吸引力。

‘Mrs. Heathcliff is my daughter-in-law,’ said Heathcliff, corroborating my surmise. He turned, as he spoke, a peculiar look in her direction: a look of hatred; unless he has a most perverse set of facial muscles that will not, like those of other people, interpret the language of his soul.
'太太。希斯克利夫是我的儿媳妇。”希斯克利夫说道，证实了我的猜测。说话的时候，他用一种奇怪的眼神看着她：一种仇恨的眼神；一种仇恨的眼神；一种充满仇恨的眼神。除非他有一套最不正常的面部肌肉，不会像其他人那样解释他灵魂的语言。

‘Ah, certainly I see now: you are the favoured possessor of the beneficent fairy,’ I remarked, turning to my neighbour.
“啊，我现在当然明白了：你是仁慈的仙女所青睐的拥有者，”我转向我的邻居说道。

This was worse than before: the youth grew crimson, and clenched his fist, with every appearance of a meditated assault. But he seemed to recollect himself presently, and smothered the storm in a brutal curse, muttered on my behalf: which, however, I took care not to notice.
这比之前更糟糕：青年脸色涨红，拳头紧握，一副蓄意攻击的样子。但他似乎很快就回过神来，用残酷的咒骂来平息风暴，并为我低声说道：不过，我小心翼翼地不去注意。

‘Unhappy in your conjectures, sir,’ observed my host; ‘we neither of us have the privilege of owning your good fairy; her mate is dead. I said she was my daughter-in-law: therefore, she must have married my son.’
“先生，你对你的推测很不满意，”我的主人说道。 “我们都没有特权拥有你的好仙女；她的伴侣死了。我说她是我儿媳妇，所以她一定嫁给了我儿子。”

‘And this young man is ‘
‘而这个年轻人就是’

‘Not my son, assuredly.’
“当然不是我儿子。”

Heathcliff smiled again, as if it were rather too bold a jest to attribute the paternity of that bear to him.
希刺克厉夫又笑了，仿佛把那只熊的父亲归咎于他实在是太大胆的玩笑了。

‘My name is Hareton Earnshaw,’ growled the other; ‘and I’d counsel you to respect it!’
“我叫哈里顿·恩肖，”另一个咆哮道。 “我建议你尊重它！”

‘I’ve shown no disrespect,’ was my reply, laughing internally at the dignity with which he announced himself.
“我没有表现出任何不尊重。”我回答道，内心嘲笑他宣布自己的尊严。

He fixed his eye on me longer than I cared to return the stare, for fear I might be tempted either to box his ears or render my hilarity audible. I began to feel unmistakably out of place in that pleasant family circle. The dismal spiritual atmosphere overcame, and more than neutralised, the glowing physical comforts round me; and I resolved to be cautious how I ventured under those rafters a third time.
他盯着我看的时间比我愿意回应的时间还要长，因为担心我可能会想打他的耳朵，或者让我的欢笑被听到。我开始明显地感到自己与那个愉快的家庭圈子格格不入。阴郁的精神气氛压倒了我周围的肉体舒适感，而且不仅仅是中和了它。我决定第三次在那些椽子下冒险时要小心谨慎。

The business of eating being concluded, and no one uttering a word of sociable conversation, I approached a window to examine the weather. A sorrowful sight I saw: dark night coming down prematurely, and sky and hills mingled in one bitter whirl of wind and suffocating snow.
吃饭的事情结束了，没有人说一句社交话，我走到窗前查看天气。我看到了令人悲伤的景象：黑夜过早地降临，天空和山丘混合在一阵刺骨的风和令人窒息的雪中。

‘I don’t think it possible for me to get home now without a guide,’ I could not help exclaiming. ‘The roads will be buried already; and, if they were bare, I could scarcely distinguish a foot in advance.’
“我想，如果没有向导，我现在不可能回家了。”我忍不住惊呼道。 ‘道路已经被掩埋了；如果它们是光秃秃的，我几乎无法提前分辨出一英尺。

‘Hareton, drive those dozen sheep into the barn porch. They’ll be covered if left in the fold all night: and put a plank before them,’ said Heathcliff.
“哈里顿，把那十几只羊赶到谷仓门廊里。如果整夜都留在羊圈里，它们就会被遮盖起来：在它们前面放一块木板，”希刺克厉夫说。

‘How must I do?’ I continued, with rising irritation.
“我该怎么办？”我继续说道，心情越来越烦躁。

There was no reply to my question; and on looking round I saw only Joseph bringing in a pail of porridge for the dogs, and Mrs. Heathcliff leaning over the fire, diverting herself with burning a bundle of matches which had fallen from the chimney-piece as she restored the tea-canister to its place. The former, when he had deposited his burden, took a critical survey of the room, and in cracked tones grated out ‘Aw wonder how yah can faishion to stand thear i’ idleness un war, when all on ‘ems goan out! Bud yah’re a nowt, and it’s no use talking yah’ll niver mend o’yer ill ways, but goa raight to t’ divil, like yer mother afore ye!’
我的问题没有得到答复；环顾四周，我只看到约瑟夫给狗端来一桶粥，希刺克厉夫太太靠在火上，一边烧着一捆从烟囱上掉下来的火柴，一边恢复茶罐。到它的位置。前者，当他放下行李时，对房间进行了批判性的审视，并用嘶哑的声音说道：“哦，奇怪的是，当一切都结束时，你怎么能忍受在战争中的无所事事！”你是个傻子，说话是没有用的，你也不会改正你的坏习惯，但是你就去吧，就像你的母亲在你之前一样！

I imagined, for a moment, that this piece of eloquence was addressed to me; and, sufficiently enraged, stepped towards the aged rascal with an intention of kicking him out of the door. Mrs. Heathcliff, however, checked me by her answer.
我一度以为这段雄辩是对我说的。他怒不可遏，大步朝老流氓走去，想把他踢出门外。然而，希刺克厉夫夫人的回答却打消了我的疑虑。

‘You scandalous old hypocrite!’ she replied. ‘Are you not afraid of being carried away bodily, whenever you mention the devil’s name? I warn you to refrain from provoking me, or I’ll ask your abduction as a special favour! Stop! look here, Joseph,’ she continued, taking a long, dark book from a shelf; ‘I’ll show you how far I’ve progressed in the Black Art: I shall soon be competent to make a clear house of it. The red cow didn’t die by chance; and your rheumatism can hardly be reckoned among providential visitations!’
“你这个可耻的老伪君子！”她回答道。 ‘每当你提到魔鬼的名字时，你就不怕身体被带走吗？我警告你不要激怒我，否则我会要求绑架你作为一个特殊的恩惠！停止！看这里，约瑟夫，”她继续说道，从书架上拿出一本又长又黑的书。 “我会告诉你我在黑魔法方面取得了多大的进步：我很快就能把它弄得一清二楚。红牛的死并非偶然，而是偶然。你的风湿病简直算不上是天赐之福！”

‘Oh, wicked, wicked!’ gasped the elder; ‘may the Lord deliver us from evil!’
“哦，邪恶，邪恶！”长老喘着气说道。 “愿主救我们脱离凶恶！”

‘No, reprobate! you are a castaway be off, or I’ll hurt you seriously! I’ll have you all modelled in wax and clay! and the first who passes the limits I fix shall I’ll not say what he shall be done to but, you’ll see! Go, I’m looking at you!’
‘不，败类！你是个漂流者，滚吧，不然我会严重伤害你的！我会让你们全部用蜡和粘土建模！第一个超越我设定的限制的人我不会说他会做什么，但是，你会看到的！走吧，我正在看着你！”

The little witch put a mock malignity into her beautiful eyes, and Joseph, trembling with sincere horror, hurried out, praying, and ejaculating ‘wicked’ as he went. I thought her conduct must be prompted by a species of dreary fun; and, now that we were alone, I endeavoured to interest her in my distress.
小女巫美丽的眼睛里流露出假装的恶意，约瑟夫因真诚的恐惧而浑身发抖，急忙跑了出去，边走边祈祷，边走边喊着“邪恶”。我想她的行为一定是出于某种沉闷的乐趣；现在只剩下我们两个人了，我努力让她对我的痛苦感兴趣。

‘Mrs. Heathcliff,’ I said earnestly, ‘you must excuse me for troubling you. I presume, because, with that face, I’m sure you cannot help being good-hearted. Do point out some landmarks by which I may know my way home: I have no more idea how to get there than you would have how to get to London!’
'太太。希刺克厉夫，”我认真地说，“请原谅我给你添麻烦了。我想，因为，看到这张脸，我相信你会情不自禁地变得善良。请指出一些我可能知道回家路的地标：我不知道如何到达那里，就像你不知道如何到达伦敦一样！

‘Take the road you came,’ she answered, ensconcing herself in a chair, with a candle, and the long book open before her. ‘It is brief advice, but as sound as I can give.’
“走你来的路，”她回答道，坐在椅子上，点着蜡烛，面前摊开着那本长书。 “这是简短的建议，但是我能给出的最合理的建议。”

‘Then, if you hear of me being discovered dead in a bog or a pit full of snow, your conscience won’t whisper that it is partly your fault?’
“那么，如果你听说我被发现死在沼泽或满是雪的坑里，你的良心不会低声说这部分是你的错吗？”

‘How so? I cannot escort you. They wouldn’t let me go to the end of the garden wall.’
'为何如此？我无法护送你。他们不让我走到花园围墙的尽头。”

‘YOU! I should be sorry to ask you to cross the threshold, for my convenience, on such a night,’ I cried. ‘I want you to tell me my way, not to SHOW it: or else to persuade Mr. Heathcliff to give me a guide.’
'你！在这样的夜晚，为了我的方便，请你跨过门槛，我感到很遗憾。”我哭道。 “我希望你告诉我我的路，而不是展示它：或者说服希刺克厉夫先生给我一个指导。”

‘Who? There is himself, Earnshaw, Zillah, Joseph and I. Which would you have?’
'WHO？他本人、恩萧、齐拉、约瑟夫和我。你想要哪一个？

‘Are there no boys at the farm?’
“农场里没有男孩吗？”

‘No; those are all.’
'不;这些就是全部。

‘Then, it follows that I am compelled to stay.’
“那么，我就不得不留下来了。”

‘That you may settle with your host. I have nothing to do with it.’
‘这样你就可以和你的主人达成和解了。我与此无关。

‘I hope it will be a lesson to you to make no more rash journeys on these hills,’ cried Heathcliff’s stern voice from the kitchen entrance. ‘As to staying here, I don’t keep accommodations for visitors: you must share a bed with Hareton or Joseph, if you do.’
“我希望这对你来说是一个教训，不要再在这些山上鲁莽地旅行，”厨房门口传来希刺克厉夫严厉的声音。 “至于住在这里，我不为游客提供住宿：如果你这样做的话，你必须与哈里顿或约瑟夫共用一张床。”

‘I can sleep on a chair in this room,’ I replied.
“我可以睡在这个房间的椅子上，”我回答道。

‘No, no! A stranger is a stranger, be he rich or poor: it will not suit me to permit any one the range of the place while I am off guard!’ said the unmannerly wretch.
'不，不！陌生人就是陌生人，无论他是富有还是贫穷：在我不警惕的情况下，我不适合允许任何人进入这个地方！”无礼的坏蛋说道。

With this insult my patience was at an end. I uttered an expression of disgust, and pushed past him into the yard, running against Earnshaw in my haste. It was so dark that I could not see the means of exit; and, as I wandered round, I heard another specimen of their civil behaviour amongst each other. At first the young man appeared about to befriend me.
有了这种侮辱，我的耐心就到了尽头。我露出厌恶的表情，推开他走进院子，匆忙地撞向恩肖。天太黑了，我看不到出口。当我四处闲逛时，我听到了他们之间文明行为的另一个例子。起初，这个年轻人似乎要和我交朋友。

‘I’ll go with him as far as the park,’ he said.
“我会陪他一直到公园，”他说。

‘You’ll go with him to hell!’ exclaimed his master, or whatever relation he bore. ‘And who is to look after the horses, eh?’
“你会和他一起下地狱！”他的主人，或者不管他有什么关系，喊道。 “谁来照顾马匹，嗯？”

‘A man’s life is of more consequence than one evening’s neglect of the horses: somebody must go,’ murmured Mrs. Heathcliff, more kindly than I expected.
“一个人的生命比一晚上忽视马匹更重要：必须有人离开，”希刺克厉夫太太低声说道，语气比我想象的要友善。

‘Not at your command!’ retorted Hareton. ‘If you set store on him, you’d better be quiet.’
“不听你的指挥！”哈里顿反驳道。 “如果你重视他，你最好保持安静。”

‘Then I hope his ghost will haunt you; and I hope Mr. Heathcliff will never get another tenant till the Grange is a ruin,’ she answered, sharply.
“那么我希望他的鬼魂会缠着你； “我希望希刺克厉夫先生永远不要再找房客，除非农庄变成一片废墟。”她尖锐地回答道。

‘Hearken, hearken, shoo’s cursing on ‘em!’ muttered Joseph, towards whom I had been steering.
“听着，听着，嘘，他们在诅咒他们！”我一直向他驶去的约瑟夫低声说道。

He sat within earshot, milking the cows by the light of a lantern, which I seized unceremoniously, and, calling out that I would send it back on the morrow, rushed to the nearest postern.
他坐在能听见的地方，借着灯笼的光挤奶牛，我毫不客气地抓住了灯笼，喊道我明天会把它送回来，然后冲到最近的后院。

‘Maister, maister, he’s staling t’ lanthern!’ shouted the ancient, pursuing my retreat. ‘Hey, Gnasher! Hey, dog! Hey Wolf, holld him, holld him!’
“老爷，老爷，他偷灯笼了！”老人一边追赶着我，一边喊道。 ‘嘿，咬牙者！嘿，狗！嘿，狼，抓住他，抓住他！

On opening the little door, two hairy monsters flew at my throat, bearing me down, and extinguishing the light; while a mingled guffaw from Heathcliff and Hareton put the copestone on my rage and humiliation. Fortunately, the beasts seemed more bent on stretching their paws, and yawning, and flourishing their tails, than devouring me alive; but they would suffer no resurrection, and I was forced to lie till their malignant masters pleased to deliver me: then, hatless and trembling with wrath, I ordered the miscreants to let me out on their peril to keep me one minute longer with several incoherent threats of retaliation that, in their indefinite depth of virulency, smacked of King Lear.
打开小门，两只毛茸茸的怪物飞到我的喉咙，把我压倒，熄灭了灯；希刺克厉夫和哈里顿的一阵大笑让我的愤怒和羞辱更加沉重。幸运的是，这些野兽似乎更热衷于伸展爪子、打哈欠、摆动尾巴，而不是把我活活吞掉。但他们不会复活，我被迫撒谎，直到他们恶毒的主人愿意来救我：然后，我没戴帽子，气得浑身发抖，命令这些恶棍冒着危险把我放出去，用几个语无伦次的语气再让我多待一分钟。报复的威胁，其无限的恶毒程度，带有《李尔王》的味道。

The vehemence of my agitation brought on a copious bleeding at the nose, and still Heathcliff laughed, and still I scolded. I don’t know what would have concluded the scene, had there not been one person at hand rather more rational than myself, and more benevolent than my entertainer. This was Zillah, the stout housewife; who at length issued forth to inquire into the nature of the uproar. She thought that some of them had been laying violent hands on me; and, not daring to attack her master, she turned her vocal artillery against the younger scoundrel.
我的剧烈激动导致鼻子大量流血，但希刺克厉夫仍然在笑，而我仍然在责骂。我不知道如果现场没有一个人比我更理性、比我的表演者更仁慈的话，这一幕会是什么样子。这是齐拉，肥胖的家庭主妇。他们最终出发去调查这场骚乱的性质。她认为他们中的一些人对我施加了暴力；她不敢攻击她的主人，而是把声音炮弹转向了这个年轻的恶棍。

‘Well, Mr. Earnshaw,’ she cried, ‘I wonder what you’ll have agait next? Are we going to murder folk on our very door-stones? I see this house will never do for me look at t’ poor lad, he’s fair choking! Wisht, wisht; you mun’n’t go on so. Come in, and I’ll cure that: there now, hold ye still.’
“好吧，恩肖先生，”她喊道，“我想知道你接下来要吃什么？我们要在我们家门口杀人吗？我看这个房子永远不会适合我，看看这个可怜的小伙子，他快窒息了！愿望，愿望；你不能再这样下去了。进来吧，我来解决这个问题：现在，别动。

With these words she suddenly splashed a pint of icy water down my neck, and pulled me into the kitchen. Mr. Heathcliff followed, his accidental merriment expiring quickly in his habitual moroseness.
说着，她突然往我脖子上泼了一品脱冰水，拉着我进了厨房。希刺克厉夫先生跟在后面，他意外的欢乐很快就消失在他惯常的忧郁之中。

I was sick exceedingly, and dizzy, and faint; and thus compelled perforce to accept lodgings under his roof. He told Zillah to give me a glass of brandy, and then passed on to the inner room; while she condoled with me on my sorry predicament, and having obeyed his orders, whereby I was somewhat revived, ushered me to bed.
我病得很厉害，头晕、虚弱。因此被迫在他的屋檐下接受住宿。他让齐拉给我一杯白兰地，然后走进内室。她对我的悲惨处境表示哀悼，并听从了他的命令，让我稍微恢复了一些，并带我上床睡觉。

Chapter III
第三章

WHILE leading the way upstairs, she recommended that I should hide the candle, and not make a noise; for her master had an odd notion about the chamber she would put me in, and never let anybody lodge there willingly. I asked the reason. She did not know, she answered: she had only lived there a year or two; and they had so many queer goings on, she could not begin to be curious.
在带路上楼的时候，她建议我把蜡烛藏起来，不要发出声音。因为她的主人对她要安置我的房间有一个奇怪的想法，并且从不让任何人自愿住在那里。我问原因。她回答说，她不知道：她在那里只住了一两年；他们发生了很多奇怪的事情，她无法开始好奇。

Too stupefied to be curious myself, I fastened my door and glanced round for the bed. The whole furniture consisted of a chair, a clothes-press, and a large oak case, with squares cut out near the top resembling coach windows. Having approached this structure, I looked inside, and perceived it to be a singular sort of oldfashioned couch, very conveniently designed to obviate the necessity for every member of the family having a room to himself. In fact, it formed a little closet, and the ledge of a window, which it enclosed, served as a table. I slid back the panelled sides, got in with my light, pulled them together again, and felt secure against the vigilance of Heathcliff, and every one else.
我自己都惊呆了，没有什么好奇心，我关上门，环顾四周寻找床。整套家具包括一把椅子、一台熨衣机和一个大橡木箱子，靠近顶部的地方切出一些方形的形状，类似于马车的窗户。走近这个结构后，我向里面看了看，发现它是一种独特的老式沙发，设计非常方便，避免了每个家庭成员都有自己的房间的必要。事实上，它形成了一个小壁橱，而它所包围的窗台则充当了一张桌子。我把镶板侧滑回去，用我的手电筒钻进去，再次把它们拉到一起，在希刺克厉夫和其他人的警惕下感到安全。

The ledge, where I placed my candle, had a few mildewed books piled up in one corner; and it was covered with writing scratched on the paint. This writing, however, was nothing but a name repeated in all kinds of characters, large and small CATHERINE EARNSHAW, here and there varied to CATHERINE HEATHCLIFF, and then again to CATHERINE LINTON.
我放蜡烛的壁架的一个角落里堆着几本发霉的书。上面的油漆上写满了划痕。然而，这篇文章只不过是一个在各种人物中重复出现的名字，大大小小的凯瑟琳·恩肖，到处都是凯瑟琳·希思克利夫，然后又是凯瑟琳·林顿。

In vapid listlessness I leant my head against the window, and continued spelling over Catherine Earnshaw Heathcliff Linton, till my eyes closed; but they had not rested five minutes when a glare of white letters started from the dark, as vivid as spectres the air swarmed with Catherines; and rousing myself to dispel the obtrusive name, I discovered my candle-wick reclining on one of the antique volumes, and perfuming the place with an odour of roasted calf-skin. I snuffed it off, and, very ill at ease under the influence of cold and lingering nausea, sat up and spread open the injured tome on my knee. It was a Testament, in lean type, and smelling dreadfully musty: a fly-leaf bore the inscription ‘Catherine Earnshaw, her book,’ and a date some quarter of a century back. I shut it, and took up another and another, till I had examined all. Catherine’s library was select, and its state of dilapidation proved it to have been well used, though not altogether for a legitimate purpose: scarcely one chapter had escaped, a pen-and-ink commentary at least the appearance of one covering every morsel of blank that the printer had left. Some were detached sentences; other parts took the form of a regular diary, scrawled in an unformed, childish hand. At the top of an extra page (quite a treasure, probably, when first lighted on) I was greatly amused to behold an excellent caricature of my friend Joseph, rudely, yet powerfully sketched. An immediate interest kindled within me for the unknown Catherine, and I began forthwith to decipher her faded hieroglyphics.
我无精打采地把头靠在窗户上，继续念着凯瑟琳·恩萧·希刺克厉夫·林惇，直到闭上眼睛。但他们还没有休息五分钟，黑暗中就出现了一道刺眼的白色字母，就像空气中弥漫着凯瑟琳的幽灵一样生动。当我振作起来，驱散这个刺眼的名字时，我发现我的烛芯斜靠在一本古董书上，整个地方都弥漫着烤小牛皮的气味。我把它熄灭了，在寒冷和挥之不去的恶心的影响下，我感到非常不安，坐起来，摊开膝盖上受伤的书。这是一本遗嘱，字体很瘦，散发着可怕的霉味：一片蝇叶上刻着“凯瑟琳·恩肖，她的书”的字样，日期是大约四分之一个世纪前的。我关上它，拿起一个又一个，直到我检查完所有的东西。凯瑟琳的图书馆是精选的，其破旧的状态证明它得到了很好的利用，尽管并不完全出于合法的目的：几乎没有一章逃脱，钢笔注释至少看起来覆盖了每一片空白。打印机已经离开了。有些是独立的句子；有些是独立的句子。其他部分则采用普通日记的形式，用稚气未脱的笔迹潦草写下。在额外一页的顶部（可能是一个宝藏，当第一次被点亮时）我非常高兴地看到我的朋友约瑟夫的精彩漫画，粗鲁但有力的素描。我对陌生的凯瑟琳立刻产生了兴趣，我立即开始解读她褪色的象形文字。

‘An awful Sunday,’ commenced the paragraph beneath. ‘I wish my father were back again. Hindley is a detestable substitute his conduct to Heathcliff is atrocious H. and I are going to rebel we took our initiatory step this evening.
“一个糟糕的星期天，”下面的段落开始了。 “我希望我的父亲能再次回来。欣德利是一个可憎的替身，他对希刺克厉夫的行为是残暴的，我要反抗，我们今晚采取了主动的步骤。

‘All day had been flooding with rain; we could not go to church, so Joseph must needs get up a congregation in the garret; and, while Hindley and his wife basked downstairs before a comfortable fire doing anything but reading their Bibles, I’ll answer for it Heathcliff, myself, and the unhappy ploughboy were commanded to take our prayer-books, and mount: we were ranged in a row, on a sack of corn, groaning and shivering, and hoping that Joseph would shiver too, so that he might give us a short homily for his own sake. A vain idea! The service lasted precisely three hours; and yet my brother had the face to exclaim, when he saw us descending, ‘What, done already?’ On Sunday evenings we used to be permitted to play, if we did not make much noise; now a mere titter is sufficient to send us into corners.
“一整天都下着大雨；我们不能去教堂，所以约瑟夫必须在阁楼上召集一群会众。当辛德雷和他的妻子在楼下的舒适炉火前晒太阳，除了读《圣经》之外，什么也不做时，我会为此负责。希刺克厉夫、我自己和那个不幸的农夫被命令拿走我们的祈祷书，然后上马：我们被安排在坐在一袋玉米上，呻吟着，颤抖着，希望约瑟夫也会颤抖，这样他就可以为自己做一个简短的布道。徒劳的想法！仪式持续了整整三个小时；然而，当我的兄弟看到我们下楼时，他满脸惊呼：“什么，已经完成了吗？”周日晚上，如果我们不发出太大的声音，我们通常会被允许玩耍；但是，当他看到我们下山时，他却满脸惊呼：“什么，已经完成了吗？”现在，仅仅一声嘲笑就足以让我们陷入困境。

‘’You forget you have a master here,’ says the tyrant. ‘I’ll demolish the first who puts me out of temper! I insist on perfect sobriety and silence. Oh, boy! was that you? Frances darling, pull his hair as you go by: I heard him snap his fingers.’ Frances pulled his hair heartily, and then went and seated herself on her husband’s knee, and there they were, like two babies, kissing and talking nonsense by the hour foolish palaver that we should be ashamed of. We made ourselves as snug as our means allowed in the arch of the dresser. I had just fastened our pinafores together, and hung them up for a curtain, when in comes Joseph, on an errand from the stables. He tears down my handiwork, boxes my ears, and croaks:
“你忘了你这里有一个主人，”暴君说道。 “谁让我发脾气，我就消灭谁！”我坚持完全清醒和沉默。好家伙！那是你吗？弗朗西斯亲爱的，当你经过时，拉一下他的头发：我听到他打响指了。”弗朗西斯热切地拉着他的头发，然后走过去坐在她丈夫的膝盖上，他们就像两个婴儿一样，在旁边接吻，胡言乱语。我们应该为此感到羞耻的愚蠢的胡言乱语。我们尽可能让自己在梳妆台的拱门上尽可能舒适。我刚把我们的围裙系在一起，挂起来当窗帘，约瑟夫就从马厩里出去办事了。他撕毁了我的杰作，打了我的耳朵，然后嘶哑地说：

‘’T’ maister nobbut just buried, and Sabbath not o’ered, und t’ sound o’ t’ gospel still i’ yer lugs, and ye darr be laiking! Shame on ye! sit ye down, ill childer! there’s good books eneugh if ye’ll read ‘em: sit ye down, and think o’ yer sowls!’
“诺布大师刚刚下葬，安息日还没过，福音的声音还在你的耳朵里，你们就躺着吧！”你们真丢脸！坐下吧，生病的孩子！如果你们愿意读的话，这里有很多好书：你们坐下来，想一想你们的母猪吧！

‘Saying this, he compelled us so to square our positions that we might receive from the far-off fire a dull ray to show us the text of the lumber he thrust upon us. I could not bear the employment. I took my dingy volume by the scroop, and hurled it into the dogkennel, vowing I hated a good book. Heathcliff kicked his to the same place. Then there was a hubbub!
“说着这句话，他强迫我们摆正位置，这样我们就可以从远处的火光中接收到暗淡的光线，以向我们展示他塞给我们的木材的文字。我无法忍受这份工作。我抓起那本脏兮兮的书，把它扔进狗窝，发誓我讨厌一本好书。希斯克利夫把他踢到了同一个地方。然后就是一片哗然！

‘’Maister Hindley!’ shouted our chaplain. ‘ Maister, coom hither! Miss Cathy’s riven th’ back off ‘Th’ Helmet o’ Salvation,’ un’ Heathcliff’s pawsed his fit into t’ first part o’ ‘T’ Brooad Way to Destruction!’ It’s fair flaysome that ye let ‘em go on this gait. Ech! th’ owd man wad ha’ laced ‘em properly but he’s goan!’
“欣德利少爷！”我们的牧师喊道。 ‘师傅，过来一下！凯茜小姐撕开了“拯救头盔”，而希刺克厉夫则用爪子把他的身体塞进了“广阔的毁灭之路”的第一部分！你们让他们继续这样的步态，真是太可笑了。哎呀！那个男人把鞋带系得很好，但他是果阿！”

‘Hindley hurried up from his paradise on the hearth, and seizing one of us by the collar, and the other by the arm, hurled both into the back-kitchen; where, Joseph asseverated, ‘owd Nick would fetch us as sure as we were living: and, so comforted, we each sought a separate nook to await his advent. I reached this book, and a pot of ink from a shelf, and pushed the house-door ajar to give me light, and I have got the time on with writing for twenty minutes; but my companion is impatient, and proposes that we should appropriate the dairywoman’s cloak, and have a scamper on the moors, under its shelter. A pleasant suggestion and then, if the surly old man come in, he may believe his prophecy verified we cannot be damper, or colder, in the rain than we are here.’
“辛德雷从他在炉边的天堂里匆匆跑出来，抓住我们一个人的衣领，另一个人的胳膊，把他们扔进了后厨房。约瑟夫断言，“噢，尼克会像我们活着一样肯定地接我们来：我们感到非常安慰，每个人都寻找一个单独的角落等待他的到来。”我拿起这本书，从架子上拿出一壶墨水，把门半开着给我照明，我已经写了二十分钟了；但我的同伴不耐烦了，建议我们拿走挤奶女工的斗篷，在荒原上，在它的庇护下奔跑。这是一个令人愉快的建议，然后，如果那个脾气暴躁的老人进来，他可能会相信他的预言得到证实，我们在雨中不会比在这里更潮湿或更冷。

*****

I suppose Catherine fulfilled her project, for the next sentence took up another subject: she waxed lachrymose.
我想凯瑟琳完成了她的计划，因为下一句话涉及到另一个主题：她给泪水打蜡。

‘How little did I dream that Hindley would ever make me cry so!’ she wrote. ‘My head aches, till I cannot keep it on the pillow; and still I can’t give over. Poor Heathcliff! Hindley calls him a vagabond, and won’t let him sit with us, nor eat with us any more; and, he says, he and I must not play together, and threatens to turn him out of the house if we break his orders. He has been blaming our father (how dared he?) for treating H. too liberally; and swears he will reduce him to his right place ‘
“我做梦也没想到欣德利会让我哭得这么厉害！”她写道。 “我的头很痛，直到我无法把它放在枕头上；但我还是不能放弃。可怜的希斯克利夫！辛德雷称他为流浪汉，不让他和我们坐在一起，也不和我们一起吃饭。他说，他和我不能一起玩，并威胁说，如果我们违反他的命令，就把他赶出家门。他一直指责我们的父亲（他怎么敢？）对待H. 过于慷慨；并发誓他将把他带到正确的地方‘

*****

I began to nod drowsily over the dim page: my eye wandered from manuscript to print. I saw a red ornamented title ‘Seventy Times Seven, and the First of the Seventy-First.’ A Pious Discourse delivered by the Reverend Jabez Branderham, in the Chapel of Gimmerden Sough.’ And while I was, half-consciously, worrying my brain to guess what Jabez Branderham would make of his subject, I sank back in bed, and fell asleep. Alas, for the effects of bad tea and bad temper! What else could it be that made me pass such a terrible night? I don’t remember another that I can at all compare with it since I was capable of suffering.
我开始对着昏暗的书页昏昏欲睡地点点头：我的目光从手稿转向印刷品。我看到一个红色的装饰标题“七十乘七，七十第一中的第一。”杰贝兹·布兰德汉姆牧师在吉默登索夫教堂发表的虔诚演讲。为了猜测贾贝兹·布兰德汉姆会如何看待他的主题，我倒回床上，睡着了。唉，糟糕的茶和坏脾气的影响！还有什么能让我度过如此可怕的一夜呢？我不记得有什么可以与它相比，因为我有能力承受痛苦。

I began to dream, almost before I ceased to be sensible of my locality. I thought it was morning; and I had set out on my way home, with Joseph for a guide. The snow lay yards deep in our road; and, as we floundered on, my companion wearied me with constant reproaches that I had not brought a pilgrim’s staff: telling me that I could never get into the house without one, and boastfully flourishing a heavy-headed cudgel, which I understood to be so denominated. For a moment I considered it absurd that I should need such a weapon to gain admittance into my own residence. Then a new idea flashed across me. I was not going there: we were journeying to hear the famous Jabez Branderham preach, from the text ‘Seventy Times Seven;’ and either Joseph, the preacher, or I had committed the ‘First of the Seventy-First,’ and were to be publicly exposed and excommunicated.
几乎在我对自己所在的地方失去知觉之前，我就开始做梦了。我以为现在是早上；我在约瑟夫的带领下踏上了回家的路。路上的积雪有几码深。当我们挣扎着继续前行时，我的同伴不断责备我没有带朝圣者的手杖，让我感到厌倦：告诉我，如果没有朝圣者的手杖，我永远无法进入房子，并自豪地挥舞着一根沉重的棍棒，我明白这是如此命名。有一瞬间，我觉得我需要这样的武器才能进入自己的住所，这很荒谬。然后一个新的想法闪过我的脑海。我不去那里：我们正在旅途中聆听著名的雅比斯·布兰德汉姆讲道，来自“七十个七”的经文；而传道人约瑟夫或我都犯了“七十中的第一个”，并且要被公开揭露并逐出教会。

We came to the chapel. I have passed it really in my walks, twice or thrice; it lies in a hollow, between two hills: an elevated hollow, near a swamp, whose peaty moisture is said to answer all the purposes of embalming on the few corpses deposited there. The roof has been kept whole hitherto; but as the clergyman’s stipend is only twenty pounds per annum, and a house with two rooms, threatening speedily to determine into one, no clergyman will undertake the duties of pastor: especially as it is currently reported that his flock would rather let him starve than increase the living by one penny from their own pockets. However, in my dream, Jabez had a full and attentive congregation; and he preached good God! what a sermon; divided into FOUR HUNDRED AND NINETY parts, each fully equal to an ordinary address from the pulpit, and each discussing a separate sin! Where he searched for them, I cannot tell. He had his private manner of interpreting the phrase, and it seemed necessary the brother should sin different sins on every occasion. They were of the most curious character: odd transgressions that I never imagined previously.
我们来到了教堂。我确实在散步时经过了它两三次。它坐落在两座山之间的一个洼地里：一个高高的洼地，靠近沼泽，据说那里的泥炭水分可以满足对存放在那里的几具尸体进行防腐处理的所有目的。迄今为止，屋顶一直保持完整。但由于牧师的津贴每年只有二十英镑，而且房子有两个房间，很快就会变成一个，所以没有牧师会承担牧师的职责：特别是据报道，他的羊群宁愿让他挨饿也不愿让他挨饿。自掏腰包增加生活一分钱。然而，在我的梦中，雅比斯有一群拥挤而专心的会众；他宣讲良善的上帝！多么精彩的布道啊！分为四百九十个部分，每个部分都完全等于讲坛上的普通演讲，每个部分都讨论一个单独的罪！我不知道他在哪里寻找它们。他有他自己的方式来解释这句话，看来这位弟兄在每种情况下都应该犯不同的罪。他们的性格最奇怪：是我以前从未想象过的奇怪的越轨行为。

Oh, how weary I grow. How I writhed, and yawned, and nodded, and revived! How I pinched and pricked myself, and rubbed my eyes, and stood up, and sat down again, and nudged Joseph to inform me if he would EVER have done. I was condemned to hear all out: finally, he reached the ‘FIRST OF THE SEVENTY-FIRST.’ At that crisis, a sudden inspiration descended on me; I was moved to rise and denounce Jabez Branderham as the sinner of the sin that no Christian need pardon.
哦，我变得多么疲倦。我多么扭动、打呵欠、点头，然后又苏醒了！我如何掐自己、刺自己，揉眼睛，站起来，又坐下来，然后用肘碰碰约瑟夫，告诉我他是否愿意这样做。我注定要听清一切：最后，他达到了“七十之一中的第一”。就在那个危机时刻，我突然得到了灵感；我很感动，站起来谴责雅比斯·布兰德汉姆犯下了基督徒不需要赦免的罪。

‘Sir,’ I exclaimed, ‘sitting here within these four walls, at one stretch, I have endured and forgiven the four hundred and ninety heads of your discourse. Seventy times seven times have I plucked up my hat and been about to depart Seventy times seven times have you preposterously forced me to resume my seat. The four hundred and ninety-first is too much. Fellow-martyrs, have at him! Drag him down, and crush him to atoms, that the place which knows him may know him no more!’
‘先生，’我喊道，‘坐在这四堵墙内，我一下子就忍受并原谅了您的四百九十个头脑。我七十次七次摘下帽子准备离开 七十次七次你荒谬地强迫我回到座位上。四百九十一太多了。烈士们，向他致敬吧！将他拖下去，粉碎成原子，让认识他的地方不再认识他！

‘THOU ART THE MAN!’ cried Jabez, after a solemn pause, leaning over his cushion. ‘Seventy times seven times didst thou gapingly contort thy visage seventy times seven did I take counsel with my soul Lo, this is human weakness: this also may be absolved! The First of the Seventy-First is come. Brethren, execute upon him the judgment written. Such honour have all His saints!’
“你就是这个人！”雅比斯庄严地停顿了一下，靠在坐垫上喊道。 ‘你目瞪口呆地扭曲了你的面容七十次七次我用我的灵魂商量了七十次七次洛，这是人类的弱点：这也可以得到赦免！七十之一的第一位来了。弟兄们，对他执行所写的判决。他所有的圣徒都享有这样的荣耀！

With that concluding word, the whole assembly, exalting their pilgrim’s staves, rushed round me in a body; and I, having no weapon to raise in self-defence, commenced grappling with Joseph, my nearest and most ferocious assailant, for his. In the confluence of the multitude, several clubs crossed; blows, aimed at me, fell on other sconces. Presently the whole chapel resounded with rappings and counter rappings: every man’s hand was against his neighbour; and Branderham, unwilling to remain idle, poured forth his zeal in a shower of loud taps on the boards of the pulpit, which responded so smartly that, at last, to my unspeakable relief, they woke me. And what was it that had suggested the tremendous tumult? What had played Jabez’s part in the row? Merely the branch of a fir-tree that touched my lattice as the blast wailed by, and rattled its dry cones against the panes! I listened doubtingly an instant; detected the disturber, then turned and dozed, and dreamt again: if possible, still more disagreeably than before.
随着这句话的结束，全体会众高举朝圣者的手杖，聚集在我周围。我没有武器自卫，于是开始与距离我最近、最凶猛的袭击者约瑟夫搏斗。在人群的汇合中，几个俱乐部交叉了；瞄准我的打击落在其他壁灯上。不久，整个礼拜堂里响起了敲击声和反敲击声：每个人的手都抵在他的邻居身上；每个人的手都伸向他的邻居。布兰德汉姆也不愿意闲着，他在讲坛上大声敲击讲坛的木板，倾注了他的热情，讲坛的反应非常巧妙，最后，他们叫醒了我，让我感到难以言喻的宽慰。到底是什么引发了如此巨大的骚动呢？雅比斯在这场争吵中扮演了什么角色？当狂风呼啸而过时，只有一根枞树的树枝碰到了我的格子，并把干燥的球果敲打着窗玻璃！我一时半信半疑地听着。发现了打扰者，然后转身打瞌睡，又做了梦：如果可能的话，仍然比以前更令人不愉快。

This time, I remembered I was lying in the oak closet, and I heard distinctly the gusty wind, and the driving of the snow; I heard, also, the fir bough repeat its teasing sound, and ascribed it to the right cause: but it annoyed me so much, that I resolved to silence it, if possible; and, I thought, I rose and endeavoured to unhasp the casement. The hook was soldered into the staple: a circumstance observed by me when awake, but forgotten. ‘I must stop it, nevertheless!’ I muttered, knocking my knuckles through the glass, and stretching an arm out to seize the importunate branch; instead of which, my fingers closed on the fingers of a little, ice-cold hand! The intense horror of nightmare came over me: I tried to draw back my arm, but the hand clung to it, and a most melancholy voice sobbed, ‘Let me in let me in!’ ‘Who are you?’ I asked, struggling, meanwhile, to disengage myself. ‘Catherine Linton,’ it replied, shiveringly (why did I think of LINTON? I had read EARNSHAW twenty times for Linton) ‘I’m come home: I’d lost my way on the moor!’ As it spoke, I discerned, obscurely, a child’s face looking through the window. Terror made me cruel; and, finding it useless to attempt shaking the creature off, I pulled its wrist on to the broken pane, and rubbed it to and fro till the blood ran down and soaked the bedclothes: still it wailed, ‘Let me in!’ and maintained its tenacious gripe, almost maddening me with fear. ‘How can I!’ I said at length. ‘Let ME go, if you want me to let you in!’ The fingers relaxed, I snatched mine through the hole, hurriedly piled the books up in a pyramid against it, and stopped my ears to exclude the lamentable prayer. I seemed to keep them closed above a quarter of an hour; yet, the instant I listened again, there was the doleful cry moaning on! ‘Begone!’ I shouted. ‘I’ll never let you in, not if you beg for twenty years.’ ‘It is twenty years,’ mourned the voice: ‘twenty years. I’ve been a waif for twenty years!’ Thereat began a feeble scratching outside, and the pile of books moved as if thrust forward. I tried to jump up; but could not stir a limb; and so yelled aloud, in a frenzy of fright. To my confusion, I discovered the yell was not ideal: hasty footsteps approached my chamber door; somebody pushed it open, with a vigorous hand, and a light glimmered through the squares at the top of the bed. I sat shuddering yet, and wiping the perspiration from my forehead: the intruder appeared to hesitate, and muttered to himself. At last, he said, in a half-whisper, plainly not expecting an answer, ‘Is any one here?’ I considered it best to confess my presence; for I knew Heathcliff’s accents, and feared he might search further, if I kept quiet. With this intention, I turned and opened the panels. I shall not soon forget the effect my action produced.
这一次，我记得我躺在橡木壁橱里，我清楚地听到狂风和雪花的声音；我还听到冷杉树枝重复它的戏弄声，并将其归因于正确的原因：但它太让我恼火了，所以我决定尽可能让它安静下来；我想，我站了起来，努力解开窗子的锁扣。钩子被焊接到订书钉上：我醒着时观察到的情况，但忘记了。 “无论如何，我必须阻止它！”我低声说道，一边用指关节敲着玻璃，一边伸出手臂去抓住那根纠缠不休的树枝。相反，我的手指却握住了一只冰冷的小手的手指！噩梦般的强烈恐惧袭上我的心头：我试图抽回手臂，但那只手紧紧抓住了我的手臂，一个极其忧郁的声音抽泣着：“让我进去，让我进去！”“你是谁？”我挣扎着问道。 ，同时，让自己脱离。 “凯瑟琳·林惇，”它颤抖着回答（我为什么会想到林惇？我为林惇读了二十遍恩肖的书）“我回家了：我在荒原上迷了路！”当它说话时，我意识到，模糊地，一张孩子的脸朝窗外张望。恐惧让我变得残忍；我发现试图甩掉这个生物是没有用的，于是我把它的手腕拉到破碎的玻璃上，来回摩擦它，直到血流下来，浸湿了床单：它仍然哀嚎着，“让我进去！”并坚持不懈它顽强的抱怨，几乎让我因恐惧而发疯。 “我怎么能！”我终于说道。 “如果你想让我让你进来的话，就让我走吧！”手指放松了，我把手指从洞里抓了进去，急忙把书堆成金字塔形靠在手指上，堵住耳朵，不去听那可悲的祈祷。我似乎把它们关了超过一刻钟；可我再一听，却是凄厉的哭声传来！ “走开！”我喊道。 “如果你乞求二十年，我永远不会让你进来。” “二十年了，”那个声音哀悼道：“二十年了。”我已经流浪了二十年了！”外面开始有微弱的刮擦声，那堆书就像被推向前一样移动了。我试图跳起来；但连肢体都动不了；于是，他惊慌失措地大声喊叫。令我困惑的是，我发现喊声并不理想：急促的脚步声接近了我的房门；有人用一只有力的手把它推开，床顶的方格里闪烁着光芒。我坐在那里，浑身发抖，擦着额头上的汗水：闯入者似乎在犹豫，自言自语道。最后，他用半耳语的声音说道，显然并不期待得到答复：“有人在吗？”因为我听得懂希刺克厉夫的口音，担心如果我保持沉默，他可能会进一步搜寻。带着这样的想法，我转身打开了面板。我不会很快忘记我的行动所产生的影响。

Heathcliff stood near the entrance, in his shirt and trousers; with a candle dripping over his fingers, and his face as white as the wall behind him. The first creak of the oak startled him like an electric shock: the light leaped from his hold to a distance of some feet, and his agitation was so extreme, that he could hardly pick it up.
希刺克厉夫穿着衬衫和裤子站在入口附近。蜡烛滴在他的手指上，他的脸色和身后的墙壁一样苍白。橡树的第一声嘎吱声让他像触电一样被吓了一跳：光线从他的手中跳到了几英尺远的地方，他的激动如此之大，以至于他几乎无法把它捡起来。

‘It is only your guest, sir,’ I called out, desirous to spare him the humiliation of exposing his cowardice further. ‘I had the misfortune to scream in my sleep, owing to a frightful nightmare. I’m sorry I disturbed you.’
“这只是您的客人，先生。”我喊道，不想让他因进一步暴露自己的怯懦而蒙受羞辱。 “由于一场可怕的噩梦，我不幸在睡梦中尖叫起来。很抱歉打扰你了。

‘Oh, God confound you, Mr. Lockwood! I wish you were at the ‘ commenced my host, setting the candle on a chair, because he found it impossible to hold it steady. ‘And who showed you up into this room?’ he continued, crushing his nails into his palms, and grinding his teeth to subdue the maxillary convulsions. ‘Who was it? I’ve a good mind to turn them out of the house this moment?’
“哦，上帝让你感到困惑，洛克伍德先生！我希望你也在场。”我的主人开始说道，他把蜡烛放在椅子上，因为他发现不可能把它拿稳。 “谁把你带进这个房间的？”他继续说道，用手掌压碎指甲，咬紧牙关以抑制上颌痉挛。 '他是谁？我现在很想把他们赶出家门吗？

‘It was your servant Zillah,’ I replied, flinging myself on to the floor, and rapidly resuming my garments. ‘I should not care if you did, Mr. Heathcliff; she richly deserves it. I suppose that she wanted to get another proof that the place was haunted, at my expense. Well, it is swarming with ghosts and goblins! You have reason in shutting it up, I assure you. No one will thank you for a doze in such a den!’
“是你的仆人齐拉。”我回答道，猛地倒在地板上，迅速穿上衣服。 “我不在乎你是否这样做，希刺克厉夫先生；这是她应得的。我想她是想以我为代价，得到另一个证明这个地方闹鬼的证据。嗯，里面妖魔鬼怪丛生！我向你保证，你有理由闭嘴。没有人会感谢你在这样的小房间里打瞌睡！

‘What do you mean?’ asked Heathcliff, ‘and what are you doing? Lie down and finish out the night, since you ARE here; but, for heaven’s sake! don’t repeat that horrid noise: nothing could excuse it, unless you were having your throat cut!’
“你这是什么意思？”希刺克厉夫问道，“你在做什么？躺下，结束这一夜，因为你在这里；但是，看在老天的份上！不要再重复那可怕的声音：没有什么可以原谅的，除非你的喉咙被割断了！

‘If the little fiend had got in at the window, she probably would have strangled me!’ I returned. ‘I’m not going to endure the persecutions of your hospitable ancestors again. Was not the Reverend Jabez Branderham akin to you on the mother’s side? And that minx, Catherine Linton, or Earnshaw, or however she was called she must have been a changeling wicked little soul! She told me she had been walking the earth these twenty years: a just punishment for her mortal transgressions, I’ve no doubt!’
“如果那个小恶魔从窗户进来，她可能会勒死我！”我回答道。 ‘我不会再忍受你们好客祖先的迫害了。贾贝兹·布兰德汉姆牧师不是和你有血缘关系吗？还有那个风流女子，凯瑟琳·林顿，或者恩肖，或者不管她叫什么名字，她一定是个换生的邪恶的小灵魂！她告诉我，她在地球上行走了二十年：这是对她犯下的致命罪行的公正惩罚，我毫不怀疑！

Scarcely were these words uttered when I recollected the association of Heathcliff’s with Catherine’s name in the book, which had completely slipped from my memory, till thus awakened. I blushed at my inconsideration: but, without showing further consciousness of the offence, I hastened to add ‘The truth is, sir, I passed the first part of the night in ‘ Here I stopped afresh I was about to say ‘perusing those old volumes,’ then it would have revealed my knowledge of their written, as well as their printed, contents; so, correcting myself, I went on ‘in spelling over the name scratched on that window-ledge. A monotonous occupation, calculated to set me asleep, like counting, or ‘
话音刚落，我就想起书中希刺克厉夫的名字和凯瑟琳的名字的联系，这种联系已经完全从我的记忆中消失，直到我苏醒。我因自己的轻率而脸红了：但是，我并没有表现出进一步意识到自己的冒犯，而是赶紧补充道：“事实上，先生，我在这度过了前半夜。”说到这里，我再次停了下来，我正要说“阅读那些旧书”。卷”，那么它就会揭示我对它们的书面内容和印刷内容的了解；于是，我纠正了自己，继续“拼写那个窗台上刻着的名字”。一项单调的工作，旨在让我入睡，比如计数，或者“

‘What CAN you mean by talking in this way to ME!’ thundered Heathcliff with savage vehemence. ‘How how DARE you, under my roof? God! he’s mad to speak so!’ And he struck his forehead with rage.
“你用这种方式对我说话是什么意思！”希刺克厉夫带着野蛮的激烈怒吼道。 ‘你怎么敢在我的屋檐下？上帝！他这样说是疯了！”他愤怒地敲着额头。

I did not know whether to resent this language or pursue my explanation; but he seemed so powerfully affected that I took pity and proceeded with my dreams; affirming I had never heard the appellation of ‘Catherine Linton’ before, but reading it often over produced an impression which personified itself when I had no longer my imagination under control. Heathcliff gradually fell back into the shelter of the bed, as I spoke; finally sitting down almost concealed behind it. I guessed, however, by his irregular and intercepted breathing, that he struggled to vanquish an excess of violent emotion. Not liking to show him that I had heard the conflict, I continued my toilette rather noisily, looked at my watch, and soliloquised on the length of the night: ‘Not three o’clock yet! I could have taken oath it had been six. Time stagnates here: we must surely have retired to rest at eight!’
我不知道是该厌恶这种语言，还是继续我的解释；但他似乎受到了如此强烈的影响，以至于我心生怜悯并继续我的梦想。肯定地说我以前从未听说过“凯瑟琳·林顿”这个名字，但经常读它会产生一种印象，当我不再控制我的想象力时，这种印象就会显现出来。当我说话时，希刺克厉夫逐渐倒回床上。最后坐下来，几乎隐藏在它后面。然而，从他不规则且断断续续的呼吸中，我猜测他正在努力克服过度的暴力情绪。我不想让他知道我听到了冲突，所以继续我的梳妆台，声音相当吵闹，看看我的手表，在漫长的夜晚自言自语：“还不到三点！”我可以发誓已经六点了。时间在这里停滞了：我们肯定已经八点钟休息了！”

‘Always at nine in winter, and rise at four,’ said my host, suppressing a groan: and, as I fancied, by the motion of his arm’s shadow, dashing a tear from his eyes. ‘Mr. Lockwood,’ he added, ‘you may go into my room: you’ll only be in the way, coming downstairs so early: and your childish outcry has sent sleep to the devil for me.’
“冬天总是九点，四点起床，”我的主人强忍着一声呻吟说道，正如我想象的那样，他手臂的影子随着动作，从他眼中流下了泪水。 '先生。洛克伍德，”他补充道，“你可以进我的房间：这么早下楼只会碍事：你孩子气的叫喊让我睡不着了。”

‘And for me, too,’ I replied. ‘I’ll walk in the yard till daylight, and then I’ll be off; and you need not dread a repetition of my intrusion. I’m now quite cured of seeking pleasure in society, be it country or town. A sensible man ought to find sufficient company in himself.’
“对我来说也是如此，”我回答道。 “我会在院子里散步直到天亮，然后我就出发；你不必害怕我再次闯入。我现在已经完全不再在社会上寻求快乐了，无论是乡村还是城镇。一个明智的人应该在自己身上找到足够的陪伴。

‘Delightful company!’ muttered Heathcliff. ‘Take the candle, and go where you please. I shall join you directly. Keep out of the yard, though, the dogs are unchained; and the house Juno mounts sentinel there, and nay, you can only ramble about the steps and passages. But, away with you! I’ll come in two minutes!’
“令人愉快的陪伴！”希刺克厉夫嘀咕道。 “拿着蜡烛，去你想去的地方吧。”我直接加入你。不过，请不要进入院子，因为狗没有拴链。朱诺家族在那里站岗，不，你只能在台阶和通道上漫步。但是，走开吧！我两分钟后就来！

I obeyed, so far as to quit the chamber; when, ignorant where the narrow lobbies led, I stood still, and was witness, involuntarily, to a piece of superstition on the part of my landlord which belied, oddly, his apparent sense. He got on to the bed, and wrenched open the lattice, bursting, as he pulled at it, into an uncontrollable passion of tears. ‘Come in! come in!’ he sobbed. ‘Cathy, do come. Oh, do ONCE more! Oh! my heart’s darling! hear me THIS time, Catherine, at last!’ The spectre showed a spectre’s ordinary caprice: it gave no sign of being; but the snow and wind whirled wildly through, even reaching my station, and blowing out the light.
我服从了，甚至退出了​​房间。当我不知道狭窄的大厅通向哪里时，我一动不动地站着，不由自主地目睹了房东的一种迷信，奇怪的是，这种迷信掩盖了他表面上的感觉。他爬上床，猛地打开了格子，一拉，他就忍不住流下了眼泪。 '进来！进来吧！”他抽泣着。 ‘凯茜，一定要来。哦，再做一次！哦！我的心肝宝贝！这一次，凯瑟琳，终于听我说话了！”幽灵表现出了幽灵一般的反复无常：它没有任何存在的迹象；它没有任何存在的迹象。但雪和风疯狂地旋转着，甚至到达了我的车站，吹灭了灯光。

There was such anguish in the gush of grief that accompanied this raving, that my compassion made me overlook its folly, and I drew off, half angry to have listened at all, and vexed at having related my ridiculous nightmare, since it produced that agony; though WHY was beyond my comprehension. I descended cautiously to the lower regions, and landed in the back-kitchen, where a gleam of fire, raked compactly together, enabled me to rekindle my candle. Nothing was stirring except a brindled, grey cat, which crept from the ashes, and saluted me with a querulous mew.
伴随着这种胡言乱语的悲伤涌出是如此的痛苦，我的同情心让我忽视了它的愚蠢，我离开了，半生气地听了，并为讲述我可笑的噩梦而烦恼，因为它产生了那种痛苦;尽管为什么超出了我的理解范围。我小心翼翼地下降到较低的区域，降落在后厨房，那里有一丝火光，紧密地聚集在一起，使我能够重新点燃蜡烛。除了一只有斑纹的灰色猫从灰烬中爬出来，用抱怨的喵喵声向我致敬之外，什么都没有动静。

Two benches, shaped in sections of a circle, nearly enclosed the hearth; on one of these I stretched myself, and Grimalkin mounted the other. We were both of us nodding ere any one invaded our retreat, and then it was Joseph, shuffling down a wooden ladder that vanished in the roof, through a trap: the ascent to his garret, I suppose. He cast a sinister look at the little flame which I had enticed to play between the ribs, swept the cat from its elevation, and bestowing himself in the vacancy, commenced the operation of stuffing a three-inch pipe with tobacco. My presence in his sanctum was evidently esteemed a piece of impudence too shameful for remark: he silently applied the tube to his lips, folded his arms, and puffed away. I let him enjoy the luxury unannoyed; and after sucking out his last wreath, and heaving a profound sigh, he got up, and departed as solemnly as he came.
两张长凳，呈圆形，几乎围住了壁炉。我在其中一个上伸展身体，格里马尔金骑上另一个。在有人入侵我们的隐居处之前，我们俩都在点头，然后是约瑟夫，拖着脚从屋顶上消失的木梯上下来，穿过一个陷阱：我想是爬到他的阁楼上。他阴险地看了一眼我引诱在肋骨之间燃烧的小火焰，把猫从高处扫了下来，然后把自己放在空位上，开始往三英寸长的烟斗里塞烟草。我出现在他的密室里，显然被认为是一种无礼的行为，太可耻了，不值得评论：他默默地将管子放在嘴唇上，交叉双臂，然后吸了一口气。我让他不烦恼地享受奢侈；他吸出了最后一个花环，长长地叹了口气，站起身来，像来时一样庄严地离开了。

A more elastic footstep entered next; and now I opened my mouth for a ‘good-morning,’ but closed it again, the salutation unachieved; for Hareton Earnshaw was performing his orison SOTTO VOCE, in a series of curses directed against every object he touched, while he rummaged a corner for a spade or shovel to dig through the drifts. He glanced over the back of the bench, dilating his nostrils, and thought as little of exchanging civilities with me as with my companion the cat. I guessed, by his preparations, that egress was allowed, and, leaving my hard couch, made a movement to follow him. He noticed this, and thrust at an inner door with the end of his spade, intimating by an inarticulate sound that there was the place where I must go, if I changed my locality.
接下来是更有弹性的脚步声；现在我张开嘴说“早上好”，但又闭上了嘴，问候没有实现。因为哈里顿·恩肖正在表演他的圣言“SOTTO VOCE”，对他接触到的每一个物体发出一系列诅咒，同时他在角落里翻找一把铁锹或铁锹，在土堆中挖掘。他向长凳后面看了一眼，张大了鼻孔，几乎没有和我交流礼貌，就像和我的同伴猫一样。根据他的准备，我猜想可以出去，于是我离开了硬沙发，做出了跟随他的动作。他注意到了这一点，并用铲子的末端推开了一扇内门，用一种含糊不清的声音暗示，如果我改变我的地点，那就是我必须去的地方。

It opened into the house, where the females were already astir; Zillah urging flakes of flame up the chimney with a colossal bellows; and Mrs. Heathcliff, kneeling on the hearth, reading a book by the aid of the blaze. She held her hand interposed between the furnace-heat and her eyes, and seemed absorbed in her occupation; desisting from it only to chide the servant for covering her with sparks, or to push away a dog, now and then, that snoozled its nose overforwardly into her face. I was surprised to see Heathcliff there also. He stood by the fire, his back towards me, just finishing a stormy scene with poor Zillah; who ever and anon interrupted her labour to pluck up the corner of her apron, and heave an indignant groan.
门通向房子，里面的女人们已经开始活动了。齐拉用巨大的吼叫声将火焰片推向烟囱；希刺克厉夫夫人跪在炉边，借着火光看书。她把手放在炉火和眼睛之间，似乎全神贯注于她的工作。停下来只是为了责备仆人用火花覆盖她，或者时不时地推开一只用鼻子在她脸上打盹的狗。我很惊讶地看到希斯克利夫也在那里。他站在火边，背对着我，刚刚和可怜的齐拉完成了一场暴风雨的场景。她时不时地打断她的劳动，揪起她的围裙一角，发出一声愤怒的呻吟。

‘And you, you worthless ‘ he broke out as I entered, turning to his daughter-in-law, and employing an epithet as harmless as duck, or sheep, but generally represented by a dash . ‘There you are, at your idle tricks again! The rest of them do earn their bread you live on my charity! Put your trash away, and find something to do. You shall pay me for the plague of having you eternally in my sight do you hear, damnable jade?’
“而你，你这个没用的人”当我进来时，他转向他的儿媳妇，用了一个像鸭子或羊一样无害的绰号，但通常用破折号来代表。 ‘你又开始耍花招了！其余的人确实靠我的慈善机构挣钱养家糊口！把垃圾扔掉，找点事情做。你应该向我支付你永远在我眼前所带来的痛苦，你听到了吗，该死的玉石？

‘I’ll put my trash away, because you can make me if I refuse,’ answered the young lady, closing her book, and throwing it on a chair. ‘But I’ll not do anything, though you should swear your tongue out, except what I please!’
“我会把垃圾收起来，因为如果我拒绝，你可以让我做，”年轻女士回答道，合上书，把它扔到椅子上。 “但我不会做任何事，尽管你应该发誓，除非我愿意！”

Heathcliff lifted his hand, and the speaker sprang to a safer distance, obviously acquainted with its weight. Having no desire to be entertained by a cat-and-dog combat, I stepped forward briskly, as if eager to partake the warmth of the hearth, and innocent of any knowledge of the interrupted dispute. Each had enough decorum to suspend further hostilities: Heathcliff placed his fists, out of temptation, in his pockets; Mrs. Heathcliff curled her lip, and walked to a seat far off, where she kept her word by playing the part of a statue during the remainder of my stay. That was not long. I declined joining their breakfast, and, at the first gleam of dawn, took an opportunity of escaping into the free air, now clear, and still, and cold as impalpable ice.
希刺克厉夫抬起手，说话者跳到了更安全的距离，显然已经熟悉了它的重量。我不想被猫狗打斗所取悦，所以轻快地向前走去，仿佛渴望分享炉边的温暖，对这场被打断的争吵一无所知。每个人都有足够的礼仪来暂停进一步的敌对行动：希刺克厉夫出于诱惑将拳头插在口袋里；希斯克利夫则将拳头插在口袋里。希斯克利夫夫人撇了撇嘴，走到远处的一个座位上，在我逗留的剩余时间里，她信守诺言，扮演着雕像的角色。那并没有多久。我拒绝参加他们的早餐，并在黎明的第一缕曙光中，抓住机会逃到自由的空气中，现在空气清新，静止，像触不可及的冰一样寒冷。

My landlord halloed for me to stop ere I reached the bottom of the garden, and offered to accompany me across the moor. It was well he did, for the whole hill-back was one billowy, white ocean; the swells and falls not indicating corresponding rises and depressions in the ground: many pits, at least, were filled to a level; and entire ranges of mounds, the refuse of the quarries, blotted from the chart which my yesterday’s walk left pictured in my mind. I had remarked on one side of the road, at intervals of six or seven yards, a line of upright stones, continued through the whole length of the barren: these were erected and daubed with lime on purpose to serve as guides in the dark, and also when a fall, like the present, confounded the deep swamps on either hand with the firmer path: but, excepting a dirty dot pointing up here and there, all traces of their existence had vanished: and my companion found it necessary to warn me frequently to steer to the right or left, when I imagined I was following, correctly, the windings of the road.
我还没走到花园尽头，房东就招呼我停下来，并提出陪我穿过沼泽。他做得很好，因为整个山后都是一片波涛汹涌的白色海洋。隆起和下降并不表明地面相应的隆起和凹陷：至少许多坑被填平了；整片土丘、采石场的垃圾，都从我昨天的行走在我脑海中留下的图画中消失了。我注意到在路的一侧，每隔六七码，有一排直立的石头，一直延伸到整个荒地：这些石头是竖立起来的，并涂上石灰，是为了在黑暗中充当向导，而且，当跌倒时，就像现在一样，将两边的深沼泽与更坚固的道路混为一谈：但是，除了指向这里和那里的脏点之外，它们存在的所有痕迹都消失了：我的同伴发现有必要警告当我想象自己正确地沿着蜿蜒的道路行驶时，我经常向左或向右转向。

We exchanged little conversation, and he halted at the entrance of Thrushcross Park, saying, I could make no error there. Our adieux were limited to a hasty bow, and then I pushed forward, trusting to my own resources; for the porter’s lodge is untenanted as yet. The distance from the gate to the grange is two miles; I believe I managed to make it four, what with losing myself among the trees, and sinking up to the neck in snow: a predicament which only those who have experienced it can appreciate. At any rate, whatever were my wanderings, the clock chimed twelve as I entered the house; and that gave exactly an hour for every mile of the usual way from Wuthering Heights.
我们很少交谈，他在画眉公园入口处停了下来，说，我在那里不会犯错。我们的告别仅限于匆忙的鞠躬，然后我继续前进，相信我自己的资源。因为门房的小屋还没有人住。从大门到田庄的距离有两英里；我相信我成功地获得了第四名，但我却在树林中迷失了自己，并在雪中陷入了深及脖子的困境：这种困境只有经历过的人才能体会。无论如何，无论我在哪儿闲逛，当我走进屋子时，时钟已经敲响了十二点。从呼啸山庄出发，按常规路线每走一英里就需要一个小时。

My human fixture and her satellites rushed to welcome me; exclaiming, tumultuously, they had completely given me up: everybody conjectured that I perished last night; and they were wondering how they must set about the search for my remains. I bid them be quiet, now that they saw me returned, and, benumbed to my very heart, I dragged up-stairs; whence, after putting on dry clothes, and pacing to and fro thirty or forty minutes, to restore the animal heat, I adjourned to my study, feeble as a kitten: almost too much so to enjoy the cheerful fire and smoking coffee which the servant had prepared for my refreshment.
我的人类装置和她的卫星冲过来欢迎我；他们大声喊道，他们已经彻底放弃了我：每个人都猜测我昨晚已经死了；他们想知道如何开始寻找我的遗骸。他们看见我回来了，我就叫他们安静，我心里麻木，拖着步子上了楼。于是，穿上干衣服，来回踱步三十或四十分钟，以恢复动物的体温，我就回到书房，虚弱得像只小猫：几乎无法享受仆人提供的欢快的炉火和冒烟的咖啡。已经为我准备了茶点。

Chapter IV
第四章

WHAT vain weathercocks we are! I, who had determined to hold myself independent of all social intercourse, and thanked my stars that, at length, I had lighted on a spot where it was next to impracticable I, weak wretch, after maintaining till dusk a struggle with low spirits and solitude, was finally compelled to strike my colours; and under pretence of gaining information concerning the necessities of my establishment, I desired Mrs. Dean, when she brought in supper, to sit down while I ate it; hoping sincerely she would prove a regular gossip, and either rouse me to animation or lull me to sleep by her talk.
我们是多么虚荣的风向标啊！我，决心让自己独立于所有的社交活动，感谢我的星星，在与低落的情绪和低落的斗争直到黄昏之后，我终于找到了一个与不切实际的我，软弱的可怜虫相邻的地方。孤独，终于迫使我的色彩；当迪恩夫人送来晚饭时，我假装要了解我的机构的必需品，希望她能坐下来，让我吃。真诚地希望她能成为一个经常八卦的人，要么用她的谈话让我兴奋起来，要么让我入睡。

‘You have lived here a considerable time,’ I commenced; ‘did you not say sixteen years?’
“你在这里住了相当长的时间了，”我开始说道。 “你不是说十六年吗？”

‘Eighteen, sir: I came when the mistress was married, to wait on her; after she died, the master retained me for his housekeeper.’
“十八岁，先生，女主人出嫁时我来伺候她；她死后，主人保留了我作为他的管家。

‘Indeed.’
'的确。'

There ensued a pause. She was not a gossip, I feared; unless about her own affairs, and those could hardly interest me. However, having studied for an interval, with a fist on either knee, and a cloud of meditation over her ruddy countenance, she ejaculated ‘Ah, times are greatly changed since then!’
随后是一阵停顿。我担心她不是一个八卦的人。除非是她自己的事情，而那些事情我很难感兴趣。然而，学习了一段时间后，她双膝握拳，红润的脸上浮现出沉思的云彩，突然脱口而出：“啊，时代已经发生了巨大的变化！”

‘Yes,’ I remarked, ‘you’ve seen a good many alterations, I suppose?’
“是的，”我说，“我想你已经看到了很多变化？”

‘I have: and troubles too,’ she said.
“我有：也有麻烦，”她说。

‘Oh, I’ll turn the talk on my landlord’s family!’ I thought to myself. ‘A good subject to start! And that pretty girl-widow, I should like to know her history: whether she be a native of the country, or, as is more probable, an exotic that the surly INDIGENAE will not recognise for kin.’ With this intention I asked Mrs. Dean why Heathcliff let Thrushcross Grange, and preferred living in a situation and residence so much inferior. ‘Is he not rich enough to keep the estate in good order?’ I inquired.
“哦，我要把话题转向我房东的家人！”我心里想。 ‘这是一个很好的开始！还有那个漂亮的寡妇，我想知道她的历史：她是否是这个国家的本地人，或者更可能的是，一个外来的人，而乖戾的印第安人不会承认她是亲戚。”带着这个意图，我问夫人迪安为什么让希刺克厉夫让画眉田庄，而宁愿住在一个境况和居所如此低劣的地方。 “他不够富有，无法维持庄园的秩序吗？”我问道。

‘Rich, sir!’ she returned. ‘He has nobody knows what money, and every year it increases. Yes, yes, he’s rich enough to live in a finer house than this: but he’s very near close-handed; and, if he had meant to flit to Thrushcross Grange, as soon as he heard of a good tenant he could not have borne to miss the chance of getting a few hundreds more. It is strange people should be so greedy, when they are alone in the world!’
“富有，先生！”她回答道。 “没人知道他有多少钱，而且钱每年都在增加。是的，是的，他足够富有，可以住在比这更好的房子里：但他几乎手头拮据；而且，如果他打算飞去画眉田庄，一旦听说有一个好房客，他就不能忍受错过再得到几百个的机会。奇怪的是，当人们孤独地生活在这个世界上时，他们竟然如此贪婪！”

‘He had a son, it seems?’
“看来他有一个儿子？”

‘Yes, he had one he is dead.’
“是的，他已经死了。”

‘And that young lady, Mrs. Heathcliff, is his widow?’
“那位年轻的女士，希刺克厉夫夫人，是他的遗孀吗？”

‘Yes.’
'是的。'

‘Where did she come from originally?’
“她最初是从哪里来的？”

‘Why, sir, she is my late master’s daughter: Catherine Linton was her maiden name. I nursed her, poor thing! I did wish Mr. Heathcliff would remove here, and then we might have been together again.’
“哎呀，先生，她是我已故主人的女儿：凯瑟琳·林惇是她的娘家姓氏。我照顾她，可怜的东西！我确实希望希刺克厉夫先生能搬到这里，那样我们就可以再次在一起了。

‘What! Catherine Linton?’ I exclaimed, astonished. But a minute’s reflection convinced me it was not my ghostly Catherine. Then,’ I continued, ‘my predecessor’s name was Linton?’
'什么！ “凯瑟琳·林顿？”我惊讶地喊道。但一分钟的思考让我确信这不是我幽灵般的凯瑟琳。然后，”我继续说道，“我的前任叫林惇？”

‘It was.’
'它是。'

‘And who is that Earnshaw: Hareton Earnshaw, who lives with Mr. Heathcliff? Are they relations?’
“那个恩肖是谁：与希刺克厉夫先生住在一起的哈里顿·恩肖？他们是亲戚吗？

‘No; he is the late Mrs. Linton’s nephew.’
'不;他是已故林惇夫人的侄子。

‘The young lady’s cousin, then?’
“那么，这位小姐的表弟呢？”

‘Yes; and her husband was her cousin also: one on the mother’s, the other on the father’s side: Heathcliff married Mr. Linton’s sister.’
'是的;她的丈夫也是她的表弟：一个是母亲的，另一个是父亲的：希刺克厉夫娶了林惇先生的妹妹。

‘I see the house at Wuthering Heights has ‘Earnshaw’ carved over the front door. Are they an old family?’
“我看到呼啸山庄的房子前门上刻着‘恩肖’。他们是一个古老的家庭吗？

‘Very old, sir; and Hareton is the last of them, as our Miss Cathy is of us I mean, of the Lintons. Have you been to Wuthering Heights? I beg pardon for asking; but I should like to hear how she is!’
“很老了，先生；哈里顿是他们中的最后一个，就像我们的凯茜小姐是我们林顿家族中的最后一个一样。你去过呼啸山庄吗？请原谅我这么问；但我想听听她怎么样了！

‘Mrs. Heathcliff? she looked very well, and very handsome; yet, I think, not very happy.’
'太太。希刺克厉夫？她看起来很好，也很漂亮。然而，我想，并不是很高兴。

‘Oh dear, I don’t wonder! And how did you like the master?’
‘噢，亲爱的，我不奇怪！你觉得主人怎么样？

‘A rough fellow, rather, Mrs. Dean. Is not that his character?
“迪恩夫人，倒不如说是个粗鲁的家伙。”这不就是他的性格吗？

‘Rough as a saw-edge, and hard as whinstone! The less you meddle with him the better.’
“粗糙如锯边，坚硬如砂石！”你越少干涉他越好。

‘He must have had some ups and downs in life to make him such a churl. Do you know anything of his history?’
“他的生活一定经历过一些坎坷，才让他变得如此粗鲁。你知道他的历史吗？

‘It’s a cuckoo’s, sir I know all about it: except where he was born, and who were his parents, and how he got his money at first. And Hareton has been cast out like an unfledged dunnock! The unfortunate lad is the only one in all this parish that does not guess how he has been cheated.’
“这是一只杜鹃，先生，我什么都知道：除了他出生在哪里，他的父母是谁，以及他最初是如何得到他的钱的。而哈里顿就像一个未成熟的笨蛋一样被驱逐了！这个不幸的小伙子是整个教区中唯一一个不猜出自己是如何被骗的人。

‘Well, Mrs. Dean, it will be a charitable deed to tell me something of my neighbours: I feel I shall not rest if I go to bed; so be good enough to sit and chat an hour.’
“好吧，迪恩夫人，告诉我一些关于我邻居的事情将是一种慈善行为：我觉得如果我上床睡觉我就不会休息；所以，坐下来聊一个小时吧。”

‘Oh, certainly, sir! I’ll just fetch a little sewing, and then I’ll sit as long as you please. But you’ve caught cold: I saw you shivering, and you must have some gruel to drive it out.’
“噢，当然，先生！我去拿一点针线活，然后你想坐多久就坐多久。但你感冒了，我看见你在发抖，你得喝点稀粥来驱散。

The worthy woman bustled off, and I crouched nearer the fire; my head felt hot, and the rest of me chill: moreover, I was excited, almost to a pitch of foolishness, through my nerves and brain. This caused me to feel, not uncomfortable, but rather fearful (as I am still) of serious effects from the incidents of to-day and yesterday. She returned presently, bringing a smoking basin and a basket of work; and, having placed the former on the hob, drew in her seat, evidently pleased to find me so companionable.
那个可敬的女人匆匆离去，我蹲在离火更近的地方。我的头感觉很热，而我的其余部分却很冷：此外，我的神经和大脑感到兴奋，几乎达到了愚蠢的程度。这让我感到，不是不舒服，而是对今天和昨天的事件造成的严重影响感到恐惧（现在我仍然如此）。不久她就回来了，带来了一个烟盆和一篮子工作。把前者放在炉灶上后，她就坐进了座位，显然很高兴发现我如此友善。

Before I came to live here, she commenced waiting no farther invitation to her story I was almost always at Wuthering Heights; because my mother had nursed Mr. Hindley Earnshaw, that was Hareton’s father, and I got used to playing with the children: I ran errands too, and helped to make hay, and hung about the farm ready for anything that anybody would set me to. One fine summer morning it was the beginning of harvest, I remember Mr. Earnshaw, the old master, came down-stairs, dressed for a journey; and, after he had told Joseph what was to be done during the day, he turned to Hindley, and Cathy, and me for I sat eating my porridge with them and he said, speaking to his son, ‘Now, my bonny man, I’m going to Liverpool to-day, what shall I bring you? You may choose what you like: only let it be little, for I shall walk there and back: sixty miles each way, that is a long spell!’ Hindley named a fiddle, and then he asked Miss Cathy; she was hardly six years old, but she could ride any horse in the stable, and she chose a whip. He did not forget me; for he had a kind heart, though he was rather severe sometimes. He promised to bring me a pocketful of apples and pears, and then he kissed his children, said good-bye, and set off.
在我搬到这里之前，她开始不再等待她的故事的邀请，我几乎总是在呼啸山庄；我几乎总是在呼啸山庄。因为我母亲照顾过辛德利·恩肖先生，也就是哈里顿的父亲，我习惯了和孩子们一起玩：我也跑腿，帮忙做干草，在农场里闲逛，准备好接受任何人安排我做的任何事情。 。一个晴朗的夏日早晨，正是收获的开始，我记得老主人恩肖先生下了楼，穿着准备旅行的衣服；在他告诉约瑟夫白天要做什么之后，他转向欣德利、凯茜和我，因为我正和他们坐在一起吃粥，他对他的儿子说：“现在，我的好男人，我今天要去利物浦，我要给你带什么？你可以选择你喜欢的东西：只要稍微小一点，因为我要步行来回：单程六十英里，那是一段很长的时间！她还不到六岁，但她可以骑马厩里的任何马，而且她选择了鞭子。他没有忘记我；因为他有一颗善良的心，尽管有时他相当严厉。他答应给我带来一袋苹果和梨，然后他亲吻了他的孩子们，道了再见，然后出发了。

It seemed a long while to us all the three days of his absence and often did little Cathy ask when he would be home. Mrs. Earnshaw expected him by supper-time on the third evening, and she put the meal off hour after hour; there were no signs of his coming, however, and at last the children got tired of running down to the gate to look. Then it grew dark; she would have had them to bed, but they begged sadly to be allowed to stay up; and, just about eleven o’clock, the door-latch was raised quietly, and in stepped the master. He threw himself into a chair, laughing and groaning, and bid them all stand off, for he was nearly killed he would not have such another walk for the three kingdoms.
他不在的三天对我们来说似乎很长一段时间，小凯茜经常问他什么时候回家。恩肖夫人预计他会在第三天晚上吃晚饭，但她却把这顿饭推迟了一个又一个小时。然而，没有任何他来的迹象，最后孩子们厌倦了跑到门口去看。然后天黑了。她本想让他们上床睡觉，但他们悲伤地请求允许他们熬夜。就在十一点左右，门闩悄然升起，主人走了进来。他一屁股坐在椅子上，又笑又呻吟，然后让他们都站开，因为他差点就被杀了，他不会再为这三个王国再走这样的路了。

‘And at the end of it to be flighted to death!’ he said, opening his great-coat, which he held bundled up in his arms. ‘See here, wife! I was never so beaten with anything in my life: but you must e’en take it as a gift of God; though it’s as dark almost as if it came from the devil.’
“最后就是逃亡！”他一边说，一边打开大衣，把它裹在怀里。 ‘看这里，妻子！我一生中从未被任何事情打败过：但你必须把它视为上帝的礼物；尽管它很黑暗，几乎就像来自魔鬼一样。”

We crowded round, and over Miss Cathy’s head I had a peep at a dirty, ragged, black-haired child; big enough both to walk and talk: indeed, its face looked older than Catherine’s; yet when it was set on its feet, it only stared round, and repeated over and over again some gibberish that nobody could understand. I was frightened, and Mrs. Earnshaw was ready to fling it out of doors: she did fly up, asking how he could fashion to bring that gipsy brat into the house, when they had their own bairns to feed and fend for? What he meant to do with it, and whether he were mad? The master tried to explain the matter; but he was really half dead with fatigue, and all that I could make out, amongst her scolding, was a tale of his seeing it starving, and houseless, and as good as dumb, in the streets of Liverpool, where he picked it up and inquired for its owner. Not a soul knew to whom it belonged, he said; and his money and time being both limited, he thought it better to take it home with him at once, than run into vain expenses there: because he was determined he would not leave it as he found it. Well, the conclusion was, that my mistress grumbled herself calm; and Mr. Earnshaw told me to wash it, and give it clean things, and let it sleep with the children.
我们围拢过来，越过凯茜小姐的头顶，我瞥见了一个脏兮兮、衣衫褴褛、黑发的孩子。足够大，既能走路又能说话：事实上，它的脸看起来比凯瑟琳的脸更老。然而当它站起来时，它却只是东张西望，一遍又一遍地重复着一些没人能听懂的胡言乱语。我很害怕，恩萧太太准备把它扔到门外：她确实飞了起来，问他怎么能设法把那个吉普赛小鬼带进屋，当他们有自己的孩子需要喂养和照顾时？他想用它做什么？他是否生气了？师父试图解释这件事，但没有得到答复。但他确实累得半死，在她的责骂声中，我所能听出的就是他在利物浦的街道上看到它挨饿、无家可归、愚蠢至极的故事，他在那里捡到了它。并询问其主人。他说，没有人知道它属于谁；由于他的金钱和时间都有限，他认为最好立即把它带回家，以免在那里白费力气：因为他决心不会把它留在他发现的地方。嗯，结论是，我的女主人嘟哝着，让自己平静下来；恩肖先生让我给它洗澡，给它干净的东西，让它和孩子们一起睡觉。

Hindley and Cathy contented themselves with looking and listening till peace was restored: then, both began searching their father’s pockets for the presents he had promised them. The former was a boy of fourteen, but when he drew out what had been a fiddle, crushed to morsels in the great-coat, he blubbered aloud; and Cathy, when she learned the master had lost her whip in attending on the stranger, showed her humour by grinning and spitting at the stupid little thing; earning for her pains a sound blow from her father, to teach her cleaner manners. They entirely refused to have it in bed with them, or even in their room; and I had no more sense, so I put it on the landing of the stairs, hoping it might he gone on the morrow. By chance, or else attracted by hearing his voice, it crept to Mr. Earnshaw’s door, and there he found it on quitting his chamber. Inquiries were made as to how it got there; I was obliged to confess, and in recompense for my cowardice and inhumanity was sent out of the house.
辛德雷和凯茜满足于看着和听，直到恢复和平：然后，两人开始在父亲的口袋里寻找他答应给他们的礼物。前者是个十四岁的男孩，但当他拿出一把被压碎在大衣里的小提琴时，他放声大哭起来。当凯茜得知主人因照顾陌生人而失去了鞭子时，她笑着向这个愚蠢的小东西吐口水，以显示她的幽默。她的痛苦为她赢得了父亲的严厉打击，教她干净的举止。他们完全拒绝把它放在床上，甚至房间里。我不再有任何感觉，所以我把它放在楼梯平台上，希望他明天就可以走了。出于偶然，或者是被他的声音所吸引，它爬到了恩肖先生的门前，他在离开房间时发现了它。有人询问它是如何到达那里的；我不得不认罪，为了补偿我的懦弱和不人道，我被赶出了家门。

This was Heathcliff’s first introduction to the family. On coming back a few days afterwards (for I did not consider my banishment perpetual), I found they had christened him ‘Heathcliff’: it was the name of a son who died in childhood, and it has served him ever since, both for Christian and surname. Miss Cathy and he were now very thick; but Hindley hated him: and to say the truth I did the same; and we plagued and went on with him shamefully: for I wasn’t reasonable enough to feel my injustice, and the mistress never put in a word on his behalf when she saw him wronged.
这是希刺克厉夫第一次认识这个家庭。几天后回来（因为我不认为我的放逐是永久的），我发现他们给他起了个名字“希刺克厉夫”：这是一个在童年时期去世的儿子的名字，从那时起，这个名字就一直为他服务，无论是基督教和姓氏。凯茜小姐和他现在已经很胖了。但辛德雷恨他：说实话，我也做了同样的事。我们羞辱地折磨着他，继续和他相处：因为我没有足够的理智去感受我的不公正，而女主人看到他受委屈时也从来没有为他说过一句话。

He seemed a sullen, patient child; hardened, perhaps, to illtreatment: he would stand Hindley’s blows without winking or shedding a tear, and my pinches moved him only to draw in a breath and open his eyes, as if he had hurt himself by accident, and nobody was to blame. This endurance made old Earnshaw furious, when he discovered his son persecuting the poor fatherless child, as he called him. He took to Heathcliff strangely, believing all he said (for that matter, he said precious little, and generally the truth), and petting him up far above Cathy, who was too mischievous and wayward for a favourite.
他看上去是个闷闷不乐、很有耐心的孩子。或许，他对虐待已经变得冷酷无情了：他能忍受辛德雷的打击，不眨眼，也不流一滴眼泪，而我的捏动只会让他吸一口气，睁开眼睛，就好像他不小心伤害了自己，没有人应该责怪。当老恩肖发现他的儿子正在迫害这个可怜的孤儿（他这样称呼他）时，这种忍耐力让他勃然大怒。他奇怪地喜欢希刺克厉夫，相信他所说的一切（就这一点而言，他说的很少，而且通常都是实话），并且对他的宠爱远胜于凯茜，因为凯茜太顽皮任性，不值得宠爱。

So, from the very beginning, he bred bad feeling in the house; and at Mrs. Earnshaw’s death, which happened in less than two years after, the young master had learned to regard his father as an oppressor rather than a friend, and Heathcliff as a usurper of his parent’s affections and his privileges; and he grew bitter with brooding over these injuries. I sympathised a while; but when the children fell ill of the measles, and I had to tend them, and take on me the cares of a woman at once, I changed my idea. Heathcliff was dangerously sick; and while he lay at the worst he would have me constantly by his pillow: I suppose he felt I did a good deal for him, and he hadn’t wit to guess that I was compelled to do it. However, I will say this, he was the quietest child that ever nurse watched over. The difference between him and the others forced me to be less partial. Cathy and her brother harassed me terribly: he was as uncomplaining as a lamb; though hardness, not gentleness, made him give little trouble.
所以，从一开始，他就对家里产生了不好的感觉；不到两年后，恩萧夫人去世，少爷开始把他的父亲视为压迫者而不是朋友，而希刺克厉夫则是篡夺了父母感情和特权的人。他因沉思这些伤害而变得痛苦。我一阵同情；但当孩子们得了麻疹，我必须照顾他们，并立即承担起一个女人的照顾时，我改变了主意。希刺克厉夫病得很重。当他躺在最糟糕的时候，他总是把我放在他的枕头旁：我想他觉得我为他做了很多事情，但他没有想到我是被迫这样做的。然而，我要说的是，他是护士照顾过的最安静的孩子。他和其他人之间的差异迫使我不再偏心。凯茜和她哥哥对我的骚扰非常严重：他像羔羊一样毫无怨言；不过，他的冷酷而不是温柔，并没有给他带来什么麻烦。

He got through, and the doctor affirmed it was in a great measure owing to me, and praised me for my care. I was vain of his commendations, and softened towards the being by whose means I earned them, and thus Hindley lost his last ally: still I couldn’t dote on Heathcliff, and I wondered often what my master saw to admire so much in the sullen boy; who never, to my recollection, repaid his indulgence by any sign of gratitude. He was not insolent to his benefactor, he was simply insensible; though knowing perfectly the hold he had on his heart, and conscious he had only to speak and all the house would be obliged to bend to his wishes. As an instance, I remember Mr. Earnshaw once bought a couple of colts at the parish fair, and gave the lads each one. Heathcliff took the handsomest, but it soon fell lame, and when he discovered it, he said to Hindley -
他接通了，医生确认这在很大程度上归功于我，并赞扬了我的护理。我对他的赞扬感到自负，对我赢得这些赞扬的人态度软化，辛德雷因此失去了他最后的盟友：我仍然不能宠爱希刺克厉夫，我经常想知道我的主人在这个世界上看到了什么如此钦佩的东西。闷闷不乐的男孩；据我回忆，他从未以任何感激之情来报答他的宽容。他并不是对恩人无礼，他只是麻木不仁。尽管他完全知道他对他的心的掌控，并且意识到他只要开口说话，全屋的人就不得不屈服于他的意愿。举个例子，我记得恩肖先生有一次在教区集市上买了几匹小马，并给了小伙子们每匹。希斯克利夫拿走了最漂亮的，但它很快就变得蹩脚了，当他发现它时，他对辛德雷说：

‘You must exchange horses with me: I don’t like mine; and if you won’t I shall tell your father of the three thrashings you’ve given me this week, and show him my arm, which is black to the shoulder.’ Hindley put out his tongue, and cuffed him over the ears. ‘You’d better do it at once,’ he persisted, escaping to the porch (they were in the stable): ‘you will have to: and if I speak of these blows, you’ll get them again with interest.’ ‘Off, dog!’ cried Hindley, threatening him with an iron weight used for weighing potatoes and hay. ‘Throw it,’ he replied, standing still, ‘and then I’ll tell how you boasted that you would turn me out of doors as soon as he died, and see whether he will not turn you out directly.’ Hindley threw it, hitting him on the breast, and down he fell, but staggered up immediately, breathless and white; and, had not I prevented it, he would have gone just so to the master, and got full revenge by letting his condition plead for him, intimating who had caused it. ‘Take my colt, Gipsy, then!’ said young Earnshaw. ‘And I pray that he may break your neck: take him, and he damned, you beggarly interloper! and wheedle my father out of all he has: only afterwards show him what you are, imp of Satan. And take that, I hope he’ll kick out your brains!’
‘你必须和我交换马：我不喜欢我的；如果你不肯的话，我就告诉你父亲这周你打了我三下，并让他看看我的手臂，从肩膀到肩膀都黑了。”辛德雷伸出舌头，把他铐在耳朵上。 “你最好马上做，”他坚持说，一边逃到门廊（他们在马厩里）：“你必须这样做：如果我说起这些打击，你会很感兴趣地再次受到这些打击。” “走开，狗！”辛德雷喊道，并用一个用来称量土豆和干草的铁锤威胁他。 “扔掉它，”他站着不动，回答道，“然后我会告诉你你如何吹嘘他一死就会把我赶出家门，看看他是否不会直接把你赶出去。”辛德雷扔了它。击中了他的胸口，他摔倒了，但立刻摇摇晃晃地站起来，气喘吁吁，脸色苍白。如果不是我阻止的话，他就会去找主人，并通过让他的病情为他辩护，暗示是谁造成了这一切，从而得到彻底的报复。 “那就带上我的小马驹吧，吉卜赛人！”年轻的恩肖说道。 “我祈祷他能扭断你的脖子：把他带走，他该死，你这个乞丐的闯入者！”哄骗我父亲失去他所有的一切：然后才让他知道你是什么，撒旦的小鬼。拿着这个，我希望他能踢出你的大脑！”

Heathcliff had gone to loose the beast, and shift it to his own stall; he was passing behind it, when Hindley finished his speech by knocking him under its feet, and without stopping to examine whether his hopes were fulfilled, ran away as fast as he could. I was surprised to witness how coolly the child gathered himself up, and went on with his intention; exchanging saddles and all, and then sitting down on a bundle of hay to overcome the qualm which the violent blow occasioned, before he entered the house. I persuaded him easily to let me lay the blame of his bruises on the horse: he minded little what tale was told since he had what he wanted. He complained so seldom, indeed, of such stirs as these, that I really thought him not vindictive: I was deceived completely, as you will hear.
希刺克厉夫已经去把那头野兽放了，并把它转移到自己的马厩里。当辛德雷结束演讲时，他正从它后面经过，把他踢到了它的脚下，他没有停下来检查他的希望是否实现，就以最快的速度逃跑了。我惊讶地发现这孩子如此冷静地振作起来，继续他的意图。交换了马鞍和所有东西，然后坐在一捆干草上，以克服猛烈打击带来的不安，然后才进屋。我轻易地说服了他，让我把他的瘀伤归咎于马：他并不介意别人讲什么故事，因为他已经得到了他想要的东西。事实上，他很少抱怨这样的骚动，我真的认为他没有报复心：我完全被欺骗了，你会听到的。

Chapter V
第五章

IN the course of time Mr. Earnshaw began to fail. He had been active and healthy, yet his strength left him suddenly; and when he was confined to the chimney-corner he grew grievously irritable. A nothing vexed him; and suspected slights of his authority nearly threw him into fits. This was especially to be remarked if any one attempted to impose upon, or domineer over, his favourite: he was painfully jealous lest a word should be spoken amiss to him; seeming to have got into his head the notion that, because he liked Heathcliff, all hated, and longed to do him an ill-turn. It was a disadvantage to the lad; for the kinder among us did not wish to fret the master, so we humoured his partiality; and that humouring was rich nourishment to the child’s pride and black tempers. Still it became in a manner necessary; twice, or thrice, Hindley’s manifestation of scorn, while his father was near, roused the old man to a fury: he seized his stick to strike him, and shook with rage that he could not do it.
随着时间的推移，恩肖先生开始失败。他本来很活跃，很健康，但突然失去了力气。当他被限制在烟囱角时，他变得非常烦躁。没有什么让他烦恼的；怀疑他的权威受到轻视，几乎让他大发雷霆。如果有人试图强加于他所爱的人，或对他所爱的人进行专横，这一点尤其值得注意：他非常嫉妒，唯恐有人对他说错话；他的脑子里似乎已经有了这样的想法：因为他喜欢希刺克厉夫，所以所有人都讨厌他，并且渴望对他不利。这对小伙子来说是一个劣势。因为我们当中比较善良的人不想让主人烦恼，所以我们迁就了他的偏心。这种幽默对于孩子的骄傲和坏脾气来说是一种丰富的滋养。但从某种程度上来说，这仍然是必要的。有两三次，欣德雷趁他父亲在附近时表现出蔑视，这让老人勃然大怒：他抓起棍子要打他，气得浑身发抖，因为他做不到。

At last, our curate (we had a curate then who made the living answer by teaching the little Lintons and Earnshaws, and farming his bit of land himself) advised that the young man should be sent to college; and Mr. Earnshaw agreed, though with a heavy spirit, for he said ‘Hindley was nought, and would never thrive as where he wandered.’
最后，我们的牧师（当时我们有一位牧师，他通过教导小林顿和恩肖一家，并亲自耕种他的一小块土地，做出了生动的回答）建议这个年轻人应该被送到大学；他的建议是，他应该送他去上大学。恩萧先生虽然心情沉重，但也同意了，因为他说“欣德利什么也不是，永远不会像他所徘徊的地方那样繁荣。”

I hoped heartily we should have peace now. It hurt me to think the master should be made uncomfortable by his own good deed. I fancied the discontent of age and disease arose from his family disagreements; as he would have it that it did: really, you know, sir, it was in his sinking frame. We might have got on tolerably, notwithstanding, but for two people Miss Cathy, and Joseph, the servant: you saw him, I daresay, up yonder. He was, and is yet most likely, the wearisomest self-righteous Pharisee that ever ransacked a Bible to rake the promises to himself and fling the curses to his neighbours. By his knack of sermonising and pious discoursing, he contrived to make a great impression on Mr. Earnshaw; and the more feeble the master became, the more influence he gained. He was relentless in worrying him about his soul’s concerns, and about ruling his children rigidly. He encouraged him to regard Hindley as a reprobate; and, night after night, he regularly grumbled out a long string of tales against Heathcliff and Catherine: always minding to flatter Earnshaw’s weakness by heaping the heaviest blame on the latter.
我衷心希望我们现在能够和平相处。想到主人应该因自己的善行而感到不舒服，我感到很伤心。我想他对年龄和疾病的不满是由于家庭不和造成的；正如他所希望的那样：真的，你知道，先生，这是在他下沉的身体里。不过，如果不是凯茜小姐和仆人约瑟夫这两个人，我们可能相处得还算可以：我敢说，你在那边看到了他。他曾经是，而且很可能是，最令人厌烦的自以为是的法利赛人，他翻遍圣经，为自己谋取应许，并将咒诅抛给邻居。凭借他的说教技巧和虔诚的演讲，他设法给恩肖先生留下了深刻的印象。主人越软弱，他的影响力就越大。他不断地担心他灵魂的担忧，并严格地管治他的孩子们。他鼓励他把欣德雷视为一个弃儿。夜复一夜，他经常抱怨一长串针对希刺克厉夫和凯瑟琳的故事：总是想通过把最严重的责任归咎于后者来迎合恩肖的弱点。

Certainly she had ways with her such as I never saw a child take up before; and she put all of us past our patience fifty times and oftener in a day: from the hour she came down-stairs till the hour she went to bed, we had not a minute’s security that she wouldn’t be in mischief. Her spirits were always at high-water mark, her tongue always going singing, laughing, and plaguing everybody who would not do the same. A wild, wicked slip she was but she had the bonniest eye, the sweetest smile, and lightest foot in the parish: and, after all, I believe she meant no harm; for when once she made you cry in good earnest, it seldom happened that she would not keep you company, and oblige you to be quiet that you might comfort her. She was much too fond of Heathcliff. The greatest punishment we could invent for her was to keep her separate from him: yet she got chided more than any of us on his account. In play, she liked exceedingly to act the little mistress; using her hands freely, and commanding her companions: she did so to me, but I would not bear slapping and ordering; and so I let her know.
当然，她的处事方式是我以前从未见过的孩子所采取的。她一天之内五十次让我们所有人都失去了耐心，而且这种情况发生的次数更多：从她下楼到她上床睡觉，我们没有一分钟能保证她不会搞恶作剧。她的精神总是处于高位，她的舌头总是唱歌、大笑，并困扰着那些不愿这样做的人。她是个狂野、邪恶的人，但她有教区里最美丽的眼睛、最甜美的微笑和最轻松的脚步：而且，毕竟，我相信她没有恶意；因为一旦她让你真心实意地哭了，她很少会不陪在你身边，并强迫你保持安静，以便安慰她。她太喜欢希刺克厉夫了。我们能为她发明的最大惩罚就是让她与他分开：然而她因为他而受到的责备比我们任何人都多。玩耍时，她非常喜欢扮演小主人。挥动双手，指挥同伴，她对我这样做，但我不忍心打耳光和命令；所以我让她知道了。

Now, Mr. Earnshaw did not understand jokes from his children: he had always been strict and grave with them; and Catherine, on her part, had no idea why her father should be crosser and less patient in his ailing condition than he was in his prime. His peevish reproofs wakened in her a naughty delight to provoke him: she was never so happy as when we were all scolding her at once, and she defying us with her bold, saucy look, and her ready words; turning Joseph’s religious curses into ridicule, baiting me, and doing just what her father hated most showing how her pretended insolence, which he thought real, had more power over Heathcliff than his kindness: how the boy would do HER bidding in anything, and HIS only when it suited his own inclination. After behaving as badly as possible all day, she sometimes came fondling to make it up at night. ‘Nay, Cathy,’ the old man would say, ‘I cannot love thee, thou’rt worse than thy brother. Go, say thy prayers, child, and ask God’s pardon. I doubt thy mother and I must rue that we ever reared thee!’ That made her cry, at first; and then being repulsed continually hardened her, and she laughed if I told her to say she was sorry for her faults, and beg to be forgiven.
现在，恩肖先生听不懂孩子们的笑话：他对他们一向严格而严肃；凯瑟琳则不明白，为什么她的父亲在患病时比在壮年时更暴躁、更不耐心。他的脾气暴躁的责备在她心中唤醒了一种顽皮的喜悦，想要激怒他：当我们一起责骂她时，她从来没有像现在这样高兴过，而她用她大胆、俏皮的表情和她准备好的话语来反抗我们；她的行为让她感到很高兴。把约瑟夫的宗教诅咒变成了嘲笑，引诱我，做了她父亲最讨厌的事，表明她假装的傲慢，他认为是真实的，对希刺克厉夫的影响力比他的善良更大：这个男孩如何在任何事情上都听从她的命令，而他的只有当它符合他自己的喜好时。一整天表现得很糟糕之后，她有时会在晚上过来抚摸以弥补。 ‘不，凯茜，’老人会说，‘我不能爱你，你比你哥哥更糟糕。去吧，祈祷吧，孩子，请求上帝的宽恕。我怀疑你的母亲，我一定会后悔我们养育了你！”一开始，她哭了。然后，不断的拒绝让她变得坚强起来，如果我告诉她对自己的错误感到抱歉并请求原谅，她就会笑。

But the hour came, at last, that ended Mr. Earnshaw’s troubles on earth. He died quietly in his chair one October evening, seated by the fire-side. A high wind blustered round the house, and roared in the chimney: it sounded wild and stormy, yet it was not cold, and we were all together I, a little removed from the hearth, busy at my knitting, and Joseph reading his Bible near the table (for the servants generally sat in the house then, after their work was done). Miss Cathy had been sick, and that made her still; she leant against her father’s knee, and Heathcliff was lying on the floor with his head in her lap. I remember the master, before he fell into a doze, stroking her bonny hair it pleased him rarely to see her gentle and saying, ‘Why canst thou not always be a good lass, Cathy?’ And she turned her face up to his, and laughed, and answered, ‘Why cannot you always be a good man, father?’ But as soon as she saw him vexed again, she kissed his hand, and said she would sing him to sleep. She began singing very low, till his fingers dropped from hers, and his head sank on his breast. Then I told her to hush, and not stir, for fear she should wake him. We all kept as mute as mice a full half-hour, and should have done so longer, only Joseph, having finished his chapter, got up and said that he must rouse the master for prayers and bed. He stepped forward, and called him by name, and touched his shoulder; but he would not move: so he took the candle and looked at him. I thought there was something wrong as he set down the light; and seizing the children each by an arm, whispered them to ‘frame upstairs, and make little din they might pray alone that evening he had summut to do.’
但恩肖先生在世上的麻烦终于结束了。十月的一个晚上，他坐在火边的椅子上静静地去世了。一阵大风在房子周围咆哮，在烟囱里咆哮：听起来狂野而暴风雨，但并不寒冷，我们都在一起，我，离壁炉有点远，忙着编织，而约瑟夫正在读他的圣经靠近桌子（因为仆人们通常在完成工作后坐在房子里）。凯茜小姐病了，这让她安静下来。她靠在父亲的膝盖上，希刺克厉夫躺在地板上，头枕在她的腿上。我记得主人在打瞌睡之前，抚摸着她美丽的头发，他很少高兴地看到她的温柔，说道：“为什么你不能永远做一个好姑娘，凯茜？”然后她把脸转向他，她笑着回答说：“爸爸，你为什么不能永远做一个好人呢？”但当她看到他再次烦恼时，她就吻了他的手，并说她会唱歌让他入睡。她开始低声唱歌，直到他的手指从她的手指上松开，他的头埋在胸前。然后我告诉她安静点，不要动，以免吵醒他。我们都像老鼠一样沉默了整整半个小时，本来应该这样做更长的时间，只有约瑟夫读完他的一章，站起来说他必须叫醒主人祈祷和睡觉。他向前走去，叫着他的名字，碰了碰他的肩膀。但他一动不动：于是他拿起蜡烛看着他。当他关灯时，我以为出了什么问题。他抓住孩子们每个人的一只胳膊，低声对他们说：“上楼去，别吵闹，他们可以独自祈祷，那天晚上他还有事要做。”

‘I shall bid father good-night first,’ said Catherine, putting her arms round his neck, before we could hinder her. The poor thing discovered her loss directly she screamed out ‘Oh, he’s dead, Heathcliff! he’s dead!’ And they both set up a heart-breaking cry.
“我先向父亲道晚安，”凯瑟琳说道，在我们阻止她之前，她用双臂搂住了他的脖子。这个可怜的东西一发现她的损失，她就尖叫起来：“哦，他死了，希刺克厉夫！”他死了！”他们同时发出了令人心碎的哭声。

I joined my wail to theirs, loud and bitter; but Joseph asked what we could be thinking of to roar in that way over a saint in heaven. He told me to put on my cloak and run to Gimmerton for the doctor and the parson. I could not guess the use that either would be of, then. However, I went, through wind and rain, and brought one, the doctor, back with me; the other said he would come in the morning. Leaving Joseph to explain matters, I ran to the children’s room: their door was ajar, I saw they had never lain down, though it was past midnight; but they were calmer, and did not need me to console them. The little souls were comforting each other with better thoughts than I could have hit on: no parson in the world ever pictured heaven so beautifully as they did, in their innocent talk; and, while I sobbed and listened, I could not help wishing we were all there safe together.
我和他们一起哀号，声音响亮而痛苦；但约瑟夫问我们会想到什么，以这种方式对天上的圣徒咆哮。他让我穿上斗篷，跑到吉默顿去找医生和牧师。那么我无法猜测两者的用途。然而，我冒着风雨去了，还带了一位医生回来。另一个说他早上会来。我留下约瑟夫去解释事情，我跑到孩子们的房间：他们的门半开着，我看到他们从未躺下，尽管已经过了午夜；但他们比较平静，不需要我安慰。那些小灵魂正在用我想不到的更好的想法互相安慰：世界上没有哪个牧师能像他们在天真无邪的谈话中那样描绘天堂如此美丽；当我一边抽泣一边倾听时，我情不自禁地希望我们都平安地在一起。

Chapter VI
第六章

MR. HINDLEY came home to the funeral; and a thing that amazed us, and set the neighbours gossiping right and left he brought a wife with him. What she was, and where she was born, he never informed us: probably, she had neither money nor name to recommend her, or he would scarcely have kept the union from his father.
先生。辛德利回家参加葬礼。还有一件让我们大吃一惊的事，他还带着妻子，邻居们都议论纷纷。她是谁，她出生在哪里，他从来没有告诉过我们：也许，她既没有钱，也没有名字来推荐她，否则他几乎不会向他父亲隐瞒这段婚姻。

She was not one that would have disturbed the house much on her own account. Every object she saw, the moment she crossed the threshold, appeared to delight her; and every circumstance that took place about her: except the preparing for the burial, and the presence of the mourners. I thought she was half silly, from her behaviour while that went on: she ran into her chamber, and made me come with her, though I should have been dressing the children: and there she sat shivering and clasping her hands, and asking repeatedly ‘Are they gone yet?’ Then she began describing with hysterical emotion the effect it produced on her to see black; and started, and trembled, and, at last, fell a-weeping and when I asked what was the matter, answered, she didn’t know; but she felt so afraid of dying! I imagined her as little likely to die as myself. She was rather thin, but young, and fresh-complexioned, and her eyes sparkled as bright as diamonds. I did remark, to be sure, that mounting the stairs made her breathe very quick; that the least sudden noise set her all in a quiver, and that she coughed troublesomely sometimes: but I knew nothing of what these symptoms portended, and had no impulse to sympathise with her. We don’t in general take to foreigners here, Mr. Lockwood, unless they take to us first.
她不是那种会因为自己的缘故而对家里造成太多干扰的人。当她跨过门槛的那一刻，她所看到的每一样东西似乎都令她高兴。以及她周围发生的一切情况：除了埋葬的准备工作和哀悼者的在场。从她当时的行为来看，我觉得她有点傻：她跑进她的房间，让我和她一起去，尽管我应该给孩子们穿衣服：她坐在那儿，颤抖着，紧握双手，反复询问“他们走了吗？”然后她开始歇斯底里地描述看到黑色对她产生的影响；她吓了一跳，浑身发抖，最后哭了起来，当我问她出了什么事时，她回答说不知道。但她却觉得很害怕死！我想象她和我一样不太可能死去。她身材瘦削，但年轻，肤色白皙，一双眼睛闪闪发光，像钻石一样明亮。可以肯定的是，我确实说过，爬楼梯让她呼吸急促。哪怕是最轻微的突然噪音也会让她浑身颤抖，有时她会咳嗽得很厉害：但我对这些症状预示着什么一无所知，也没有同情她的冲动。洛克伍德先生，我们一般不喜欢这里的外国人，除非他们先喜欢我们。

Young Earnshaw was altered considerably in the three years of his absence. He had grown sparer, and lost his colour, and spoke and dressed quite differently; and, on the very day of his return, he told Joseph and me we must thenceforth quarter ourselves in the back-kitchen, and leave the house for him. Indeed, he would have carpeted and papered a small spare room for a parlour; but his wife expressed such pleasure at the white floor and huge glowing fireplace, at the pewter dishes and delf-case, and dog-kennel, and the wide space there was to move about in where they usually sat, that he thought it unnecessary to her comfort, and so dropped the intention.
年轻的恩肖在他缺席的三年里发生了很大的变化。他变得更加消瘦，面色苍白，说话和穿着也大不相同。就在他回来的​​那天，他告诉约瑟夫和我，我们必须在后厨房里住下，把房子留给他。事实上，他本来可以在一间空余的小房间里铺上地毯并贴上纸，作为客厅。但他的妻子对白色的地板、巨大的发光壁炉、锡制盘子、餐具柜、狗窝以及他们通常坐的地方有宽敞的活动空间表示非常高兴，他认为没有必要她安慰了一番，于是打消了这个念头。

She expressed pleasure, too, at finding a sister among her new acquaintance; and she prattled to Catherine, and kissed her, and ran about with her, and gave her quantities of presents, at the beginning. Her affection tired very soon, however, and when she grew peevish, Hindley became tyrannical. A few words from her, evincing a dislike to Heathcliff, were enough to rouse in him all his old hatred of the boy. He drove him from their company to the servants, deprived him of the instructions of the curate, and insisted that he should labour out of doors instead; compelling him to do so as hard as any other lad on the farm.
她还表示很高兴在她的新朋友中找到了一个妹妹。一开始，她对凯瑟琳喋喋不休，亲吻她，和她一起跑来跑去，还送了她很多礼物。然而，她的感情很快就消失了，当她变得暴躁时，辛德雷变得暴虐。她的几句话表明了他对希刺克厉夫的厌恶，就足以激起他对这个男孩的所有旧恨。他把他从他们的公司赶到仆人那里，剥夺了他牧师的指示，并坚持让他在户外劳动。迫使他像农场里的其他小伙子一样努力地这样做。

Heathcliff bore his degradation pretty well at first, because Cathy taught him what she learnt, and worked or played with him in the fields. They both promised fair to grow up as rude as savages; the young master being entirely negligent how they behaved, and what they did, so they kept clear of him. He would not even have seen after their going to church on Sundays, only Joseph and the curate reprimanded his carelessness when they absented themselves; and that reminded him to order Heathcliff a flogging, and Catherine a fast from dinner or supper. But it was one of their chief amusements to run away to the moors in the morning and remain there all day, and the after punishment grew a mere thing to laugh at. The curate might set as many chapters as he pleased for Catherine to get by heart, and Joseph might thrash Heathcliff till his arm ached; they forgot everything the minute they were together again: at least the minute they had contrived some naughty plan of revenge; and many a time I’ve cried to myself to watch them growing more reckless daily, and I not daring to speak a syllable, for fear of losing the small power I still retained over the unfriended creatures. One Sunday evening, it chanced that they were banished from the sitting-room, for making a noise, or a light offence of the kind; and when I went to call them to supper, I could discover them nowhere. We searched the house, above and below, and the yard and stables; they were invisible: and, at last, Hindley in a passion told us to bolt the doors, and swore nobody should let them in that night. The household went to bed; and I, too, anxious to lie down, opened my lattice and put my head out to hearken, though it rained: determined to admit them in spite of the prohibition, should they return. In a while, I distinguished steps coming up the road, and the light of a lantern glimmered through the gate. I threw a shawl over my head and ran to prevent them from waking Mr. Earnshaw by knocking. There was Heathcliff, by himself: it gave me a start to see him alone.
希刺克厉夫一开始很好地忍受了他的侮辱，因为凯茜教给他她所学到的东西，并和他一起在田里干活或玩耍。他们都许诺公平地长大后会像野蛮人一样粗鲁。少爷完全不顾他们的行为举止，所以他们都避开了他。他们周日去教堂后他甚至都不会看到，只有约瑟夫和神甫在他们缺席时斥责他的粗心。这提醒他命令希斯克利夫鞭打，命令凯瑟琳禁食晚餐或晚餐。但他们的主要娱乐活动之一是早上逃到荒野并在那里待上一整天，而随后的惩罚就变得只是可笑的事情了。牧师可以根据自己的喜好安排多少章节，让凯瑟琳背下来，而约瑟夫则可以把希刺克厉夫打得胳膊发疼。当他们再次在一起的那一刻，他们就忘记了一切：至少当他们策划了一些顽皮的复仇计划的那一刻；他们忘记了一切。很多时候，我看着它们一天比一天变得更加鲁莽，我对自己哭泣，我不敢说一个音节，生怕失去我对这些不友好的生物仍然保留的微弱力量。一个周日的晚上，他们碰巧因为发出噪音或轻微的冒犯而被赶出了客厅。当我去叫他们吃晚饭时，我却找不到他们。我们搜查了房子的上下、院子和马厩；他们是看不见的：最后，辛德雷热情地告诉我们把门锁上，并发誓那天晚上任何人都不能让他们进来。一家人都去睡觉了。我也急于躺下，尽管下着雨，还是打开了格子，探出头去听：如果他们回来的话，我决定不顾禁令接纳他们。 过了一会儿，我听见路上有脚步声，灯笼的光从大门里透出来。我把一条围巾盖在头上，然后跑过去，以免他们敲门吵醒恩肖先生。希刺克厉夫独自一人在场：看到他独自一人，我不禁吃了一惊。

‘Where is Miss Catherine?’ I cried hurriedly. ‘No accident, I hope?’ ‘At Thrushcross Grange,’ he answered; ‘and I would have been there too, but they had not the manners to ask me to stay.’ ‘Well, you will catch it!’ I said: ‘you’ll never be content till you’re sent about your business. What in the world led you wandering to Thrushcross Grange?’ ‘Let me get off my wet clothes, and I’ll tell you all about it, Nelly,’ he replied. I bid him beware of rousing the master, and while he undressed and I waited to put out the candle, he continued ‘Cathy and I escaped from the wash-house to have a ramble at liberty, and getting a glimpse of the Grange lights, we thought we would just go and see whether the Lintons passed their Sunday evenings standing shivering in corners, while their father and mother sat eating and drinking, and singing and laughing, and burning their eyes out before the fire. Do you think they do? Or reading sermons, and being catechised by their manservant, and set to learn a column of Scripture names, if they don’t answer properly?’ ‘Probably not,’ I responded. ‘They are good children, no doubt, and don’t deserve the treatment you receive, for your bad conduct.’ ‘Don’t cant, Nelly,’ he said: ‘nonsense! We ran from the top of the Heights to the park, without stopping Catherine completely beaten in the race, because she was barefoot. You’ll have to seek for her shoes in the bog to-morrow. We crept through a broken hedge, groped our way up the path, and planted ourselves on a flower-plot under the drawing-room window. The light came from thence; they had not put up the shutters, and the curtains were only half closed. Both of us were able to look in by standing on the basement, and clinging to the ledge, and we saw ah! it was beautiful a splendid place carpeted with crimson, and crimson-covered chairs and tables, and a pure white ceiling bordered by gold, a shower of glass-drops hanging in silver chains from the centre, and shimmering with little soft tapers. Old Mr. and Mrs. Linton were not there; Edgar and his sisters had it entirely to themselves. Shouldn’t they have been happy? We should have thought ourselves in heaven! And now, guess what your good children were doing? Isabella I believe she is eleven, a year younger than Cathy lay screaming at the farther end of the room, shrieking as if witches were running red-hot needles into her. Edgar stood on the hearth weeping silently, and in the middle of the table sat a little dog, shaking its paw and yelping; which, from their mutual accusations, we understood they had nearly pulled in two between them. The idiots! That was their pleasure! to quarrel who should hold a heap of warm hair, and each begin to cry because both, after struggling to get it, refused to take it. We laughed outright at the petted things; we did despise them! When would you catch me wishing to have what Catherine wanted? or find us by ourselves, seeking entertainment in yelling, and sobbing, and rolling on the ground, divided by the whole room? I’d not exchange, for a thousand lives, my condition here, for Edgar Linton’s at Thrushcross Grange not if I might have the privilege of flinging Joseph off the highest gable, and painting the housefront with Hindley’s blood!’
“凯瑟琳小姐在哪儿？”我急忙喊道。 “希望不是意外吧？” “在画眉田庄，”他回答道。 “我本来也会在那里，但他们没有礼貌要求我留下来。”“好吧，你会明白的！”我说：“除非你被派去处理你的事情，否则你永远不会满足。” “到底是什么让你流浪到画眉田庄？” “让我脱掉湿衣服，我会把这一切都告诉你的，耐莉，”他回答道。我吩咐他小心惊醒主人，当他脱掉衣服，我等着熄灭蜡烛时，他继续说道：“我和凯茜从洗衣房逃出来，自由地散步，瞥见田庄的灯光，我们以为我们应该去看看林惇一家是否在角落里瑟瑟发抖地度过了周日晚上，而他们的父亲和母亲则坐在火堆前吃着喝着，唱着笑着，把眼睛烧坏了。你认为他们会吗？或者读布道，接受仆人的教义问答，然后学习一列经文名称，如果他们回答不正确的话？” “可能不会，”我回答道。 “毫无疑问，他们是好孩子，不应该因为你的不良行为而受到你的待遇。”“别做不到，耐莉，”他说：“胡说八道！”我们从山顶跑到公园，没有阻止凯瑟琳在比赛中彻底失败，因为她赤着脚。明天你得去沼泽里寻找她的鞋子。我们爬过一处破损的树篱，摸索着走上小路，来到客厅窗户下的一块花地上。光从那里发出来；他们没有拉上百叶窗，窗帘也只拉了一半。我们两个都站在地下室，抓住壁架往里看，我们看到了啊！ 这是一个美丽的地方，铺着深红色的地毯，覆盖着深红色的椅子和桌子，纯白色的天花板镶着金色的边，中央挂着银色的玻璃珠，闪闪发光的小软锥。老林惇先生和老太太不在那儿。埃德加和他的姐妹们完全属于自己。他们不应该高兴吗？我们应该以为自己在天堂！现在，猜猜你的好孩子们在做什么？伊莎贝拉，我相信她十一岁，比凯茜小一岁，她躺在房间的另一端尖叫，尖叫声仿佛女巫正在将烧红的针刺入她的身体。埃德加站在壁炉边无声地哭泣，桌子中间坐着一只小狗，摇着爪子，嚎叫着。从他们的相互指责中，我们了解到他们几乎把他们分成了两部分。白痴们！那是他们的荣幸！争吵谁应该握住一堆温暖的头发，每个人都开始哭泣，因为双方在努力争取之后都拒绝接受。我们对那些被宠爱的东西哈哈大笑；我们确实鄙视他们！你什么时候才能发现我想要得到凯瑟琳想要的东西？或者发现我们自己，在大喊大叫、抽泣、在地上打滚来寻求娱乐，被整个房间隔开？如果我能有幸把约瑟夫从最高的山墙上扔下来，并用辛德雷的血涂满房子的前面，我就不会用一千条生命来交换我在这里的条件，换取埃德加·林惇在画眉田庄的条件！’

‘Hush, hush!’ I interrupted. ‘Still you have not told me, Heathcliff, how Catherine is left behind?’
“嘘，嘘！”我打断道。 “希刺克厉夫，你还没告诉我，凯瑟琳是怎么被抛在后面的吗？”

‘I told you we laughed,’ he answered. ‘The Lintons heard us, and with one accord they shot like arrows to the door; there was silence, and then a cry, ‘Oh, mamma, mamma! Oh, papa! Oh, mamma, come here. Oh, papa, oh!’ They really did howl out something in that way. We made frightful noises to terrify them still more, and then we dropped off the ledge, because somebody was drawing the bars, and we felt we had better flee. I had Cathy by the hand, and was urging her on, when all at once she fell down. ‘Run, Heathcliff, run!’ she whispered. ‘They have let the bull-dog loose, and he holds me!’ The devil had seized her ankle, Nelly: I heard his abominable snorting. She did not yell out no! she would have scorned to do it, if she had been spitted on the horns of a mad cow. I did, though: I vociferated curses enough to annihilate any fiend in Christendom; and I got a stone and thrust it between his jaws, and tried with all my might to cram it down his throat. A beast of a servant came up with a lantern, at last, shouting ‘Keep fast, Skulker, keep fast!’ He changed his note, however, when he saw Skulker’s game. The dog was throttled off; his huge, purple tongue hanging half a foot out of his mouth, and his pendent lips streaming with bloody slaver. The man took Cathy up; she was sick: not from fear, I’m certain, but from pain. He carried her in; I followed, grumbling execrations and vengeance. ‘What prey, Robert?’ hallooed Linton from the entrance. ‘Skulker has caught a little girl, sir,’ he replied; ‘and there’s a lad here,’ he added, making a clutch at me, ‘who looks an out-andouter! Very like the robbers were for putting them through the window to open the doors to the gang after all were asleep, that they might murder us at their ease. Hold your tongue, you foulmouthed thief, you! you shall go to the gallows for this. Mr. Linton, sir, don’t lay by your gun.’ ‘No, no, Robert,’ said the old fool. ‘The rascals knew that yesterday was my rent-day: they thought to have me cleverly. Come in; I’ll furnish them a reception. There, John, fasten the chain. Give Skulker some water, Jenny. To beard a magistrate in his stronghold, and on the Sabbath, too! Where will their insolence stop? Oh, my dear Mary, look here! Don’t be afraid, it is but a boy yet the villain scowls so plainly in his face; would it not be a kindness to the country to hang him at once, before he shows his nature in acts as well as features?’ He pulled me under the chandelier, and Mrs. Linton placed her spectacles on her nose and raised her hands in horror. The cowardly children crept nearer also, Isabella lisping ‘Frightful thing! Put him in the cellar, papa. He’s exactly like the son of the fortune-teller that stole my tame pheasant. Isn’t he, Edgar?’
“我告诉过你我们笑了，”他回答道。 “林惇一家听到了我们的声音，齐声像箭一样射向门口；一阵沉默，然后是一声喊叫：“哦，妈妈，妈妈！”哦，爸爸！哦，妈妈，过来。噢，爸爸，噢！’他们确实发出了那样的嚎叫声。我们发出可怕的声音，让他们更加害怕，然后我们从壁架上掉下来，因为有人在拉栅栏，我们觉得最好逃跑。我拉着凯茜的手，催促她继续前进，但她突然倒下了。 “快跑，希刺克厉夫，快跑！”她低声说道。 “他们把斗牛犬放了，他抓住了我！”魔鬼抓住了她的脚踝，耐莉：我听到了他可恶的鼻息声。她没有喊出不！如果她被吐在疯牛的角上，她会鄙视这样做。但我做到了：我大声咒骂足以消灭基督教世界的任何恶魔；我拿了一块石头，把它塞到他的下巴之间，并用尽全力想把它塞进他的喉咙里。最后，一个野兽般的仆人提着灯笼走来，大喊“快点，潜行者，快点！”然而，当他看到潜行者的游戏时，他改变了态度。狗被勒死了；他巨大的紫色舌头从嘴里伸出半英尺，下垂的嘴唇流着带血的口水。那人把凯茜抱了起来。她病了：我确信不是因为恐惧，而是因为痛苦。他把她抱了进去；我跟在后面，嘴里嘟囔着咒骂和报复。 “什么猎物，罗伯特？”林惇在入口处大声喊道。 “潜伏者抓住了一个小女孩，先生，”他回答道。 “这里有一个小伙子，”他补充道，一把抓住我，“他看起来是个不折不扣的人！”就像强盗们在大家都睡着后把他们从窗户里打开，以便他们可以轻松地谋杀我们一样。 住嘴，你这个满嘴脏话的小偷！你将为此被送上绞刑架。 “林惇先生，先生，别把枪放在一边。” “不，不，罗伯特，”老傻瓜说。 “那些流氓知道昨天是我的租房日：他们想巧妙地抓住我。进来;我会招待他们。约翰，把链子系好。珍妮，给潜藏者一些水。在他的据点里留着长胡子的地方官，而且还在安息日！他们的无礼到哪里才能停止呢？哦，我亲爱的玛丽，看这里！别害怕，不过是个小男孩，坏人却如此明显地皱起眉头； “在他表现出他的本性之前，立即绞死他，不是对国家仁慈吗？”他把我拉到枝形吊灯下，林惇夫人把眼镜架在鼻子上，举起双手。恐怖。胆怯的孩子们也悄悄靠近，伊莎贝拉口齿不清地说：“可怕的东西！”把他放在地窖里，爸爸。他就像偷了我驯养的野鸡的算命先生的儿子一样。他不是吗，埃德加？’

‘While they examined me, Cathy came round; she heard the last speech, and laughed. Edgar Linton, after an inquisitive stare, collected sufficient wit to recognise her. They see us at church, you know, though we seldom meet them elsewhere. ‘That’s Miss Earnshaw?’ he whispered to his mother, ‘and look how Skulker has bitten her how her foot bleeds!’
“当他们给我检查时，凯茜醒了过来；她听到最后一句话，笑了。埃德加·林惇好奇地看了一眼后，机智地认出了她。你知道，他们在教堂见到我们，尽管我们很少在其他地方见到他们。 “那是恩肖小姐？”他低声对母亲说道，“看看潜伏者把她咬得多么厉害，她的脚都流血了！”

‘’Miss Earnshaw? Nonsense!’ cried the dame; ‘Miss Earnshaw scouring the country with a gipsy! And yet, my dear, the child is in mourning surely it is and she may be lamed for life!’
“恩萧小姐？胡说八道！”那位女士喊道。 “恩萧小姐带着吉普赛人走遍全国！然而，亲爱的，这孩子确实在哀悼，她可能会终生跛脚！

‘’What culpable carelessness in her brother!’ exclaimed Mr. Linton, turning from me to Catherine. ‘I’ve understood from Shielders‘‘ (that was the curate, sir) ‘“that he lets her grow up in absolute heathenism. But who is this? Where did she pick up this companion? Oho! I declare he is that strange acquisition my late neighbour made, in his journey to Liverpool a little Lascar, or an American or Spanish castaway.’
“她哥哥真是太粗心了！”林惇先生一边说，一边把目光从我身上转向凯瑟琳。 “我从希尔德斯（牧师，先生）那里了解到，‘他让她在绝对的异教中长大。但这是谁？她在哪里找到这个同伴的？噢！我宣称他是我已故邻居所获得的奇怪的东西，在他前往利物浦的旅程中有点像拉斯卡，或者是美国或西班牙的漂流者。

‘’A wicked boy, at all events,’ remarked the old lady, ‘and quite unfit for a decent house! Did you notice his language, Linton? I’m shocked that my children should have heard it.’
“无论如何，这是一个邪恶的男孩，”老太太评论道，“根本不适合住进像样的房子！”你注意到他的语言了吗，林惇？我很震惊我的孩子们竟然听到了这个消息。”

‘I recommenced cursing don’t be angry, Nelly and so Robert was ordered to take me off. I refused to go without Cathy; he dragged me into the garden, pushed the lantern into my hand, assured me that Mr. Earnshaw should be informed of my behaviour, and, bidding me march directly, secured the door again. The curtains were still looped up at one corner, and I resumed my station as spy; because, if Catherine had wished to return, I intended shattering their great glass panes to a million of fragments, unless they let her out. She sat on the sofa quietly. Mrs. Linton took off the grey cloak of the dairy-maid which we had borrowed for our excursion, shaking her head and expostulating with her, I suppose: she was a young lady, and they made a distinction between her treatment and mine. Then the woman-servant brought a basin of warm water, and washed her feet; and Mr. Linton mixed a tumbler of negus, and Isabella emptied a plateful of cakes into her lap, and Edgar stood gaping at a distance. Afterwards, they dried and combed her beautiful hair, and gave her a pair of enormous slippers, and wheeled her to the fire; and I left her, as merry as she could be, dividing her food between the little dog and Skulker, whose nose she pinched as he ate; and kindling a spark of spirit in the vacant blue eyes of the Lintons a dim reflection from her own enchanting face. I saw they were full of stupid admiration; she is so immeasurably superior to them to everybody on earth, is she not, Nelly?’
“我又开始咒骂，别生气，耐莉，所以罗伯特被命令把我带走。”我拒绝不带凯茜去。他把我拖进花园，把灯笼推到我手里，向我保证，恩肖先生应该知道我的行为，然后吩咐我直接走，然后又锁上了门。角落里的窗帘还拉着，我又恢复了间谍的身份。因为，如果凯瑟琳想回来，我打算把他们巨大的玻璃窗打碎成一百万块碎片，除非他们放她出去。她静静地坐在沙发上。林惇太太脱下我们为远足借的挤奶女工的灰色斗篷，摇摇头，劝告她，我想：她是一位年轻的女士，他们对她的待遇和我的待遇是有区别的。婢女端来一盆温水，给她洗脚。林惇先生搅拌了一杯尼格斯酒，伊莎贝拉把一盘蛋糕倒在她的腿上，埃德加站在远处目瞪口呆。随后，他们把她美丽的头发吹干、梳理好，送给她一双巨大的拖鞋，然后把她推到火边。我尽其所能地离开了她，把食物分给了小狗和潜藏者，当他吃东西的时候，她捏住了潜藏者的鼻子。林惇夫妇那双空洞的蓝眼睛里燃起了精神的火花，这双眼睛映照在她迷人的脸上，映出朦胧的倒影。我看到他们充满了愚蠢的钦佩；她比他们比地球上的每个人都优越得多，不是吗，耐莉？

‘There will more come of this business than you reckon on,’ I answered, covering him up and extinguishing the light. ‘You are incurable, Heathcliff; and Mr. Hindley will have to proceed to extremities, see if he won’t.’ My words came truer than I desired. The luckless adventure made Earnshaw furious. And then Mr. Linton, to mend matters, paid us a visit himself on the morrow, and read the young master such a lecture on the road he guided his family, that he was stirred to look about him, in earnest. Heathcliff received no flogging, but he was told that the first word he spoke to Miss Catherine should ensure a dismissal; and Mrs. Earnshaw undertook to keep her sister-in-law in due restraint when she returned home; employing art, not force: with force she would have found it impossible.
“这件事的后果会比你想象的还要多。”我一边回答，一边给他盖上被子，并熄灭了灯。 “你已经无可救药了，希斯克利夫；欣德利先生将不得不采取极端措施，看看他是否不会这样做。”我的话比我预想的更真实。这次不幸的冒险让恩肖勃然大怒。然后，林惇先生为了挽回局面，第二天亲自来拜访我们，给少爷读了他引导家人路上的一番讲座，让他认真地环顾四周。希斯克利夫没有受到鞭打，但他被告知，他对凯瑟琳小姐说的第一句话就应该被解雇；恩萧夫人承诺，当她的嫂子回家后，她会受到适当的约束。使用艺术，而不是武力：如果使用武力，她会发现这是不可能的。

Chapter VII
第七章

CATHY stayed at Thrushcross Grange five weeks: till Christmas. By that time her ankle was thoroughly cured, and her manners much improved. The mistress visited her often in the interval, and commenced her plan of reform by trying to raise her self-respect with fine clothes and flattery, which she took readily; so that, instead of a wild, hatless little savage jumping into the house, and rushing to squeeze us all breathless, there ‘lighted from a handsome black pony a very dignified person, with brown ringlets falling from the cover of a feathered beaver, and a long cloth habit, which she was obliged to hold up with both hands that she might sail in. Hindley lifted her from her horse, exclaiming delightedly, ‘Why, Cathy, you are quite a beauty! I should scarcely have known you: you look like a lady now. Isabella Linton is not to be compared with her, is she, Frances?’ ‘Isabella has not her natural advantages,’ replied his wife: ‘but she must mind and not grow wild again here. Ellen, help Miss Catherine off with her things Stay, dear, you will disarrange your curls let me untie your hat.’
凯茜在画眉田庄待了五个星期：直到圣诞节。那时她的脚踝已经彻底痊愈了，她的举止也大有进步。女主人在这段时间经常拜访她，并开始了她的改革计划，试图用漂亮的衣服和奉承来提高她的自尊，她欣然接受了。因此，不再是一个狂野的、不戴帽子的小野蛮人跳进屋子，冲着把我们都挤得喘不过气来，而是“从一匹英俊的黑色小马身上闪出一个非常有尊严的人，棕色的卷发从一只长有羽毛的海狸的覆盖物上垂落下来，辛德雷把她从马背上抱起来，高兴地喊道：“哎呀，凯茜，你真是个美人啊！”我几乎不应该认识你：你现在看起来像一位女士。伊莎贝拉·林惇不能与她相提并论，不是吗，弗朗西斯？”艾伦，帮凯瑟琳小姐收拾东西，留下来，亲爱的，你会弄乱你的卷发，让我解开你的帽子。

I removed the habit, and there shone forth beneath a grand plaid silk frock, white trousers, and burnished shoes; and, while her eyes sparkled joyfully when the dogs came bounding up to welcome her, she dared hardly touch them lest they should fawn upon her splendid garments. She kissed me gently: I was all flour making the Christmas cake, and it would not have done to give me a hug; and then she looked round for Heathcliff. Mr. and Mrs. Earnshaw watched anxiously their meeting; thinking it would enable them to judge, in some measure, what grounds they had for hoping to succeed in separating the two friends.
我脱掉了习惯，在华丽的格子丝绸连衣裙、白色裤子和锃亮的鞋子下面闪闪发光；当狗跳起来欢迎她时，她的眼睛里闪烁着喜悦的光芒，但她几乎不敢碰它们，以免它们阿谀奉承她华丽的衣服。她轻轻地吻了我：我用面粉做的圣诞蛋糕，给我一个拥抱是不行的；然后她环顾四周寻找希刺克厉夫。恩肖先生和夫人焦急地看着他们的会面。认为这可以让他们在某种程度上判断他们有什么理由希望成功地拆散这两个朋友。

Heathcliff was hard to discover, at first. If he were careless, and uncared for, before Catherine’s absence, he had been ten times more so since. Nobody but I even did him the kindness to call him a dirty boy, and bid him wash himself, once a week; and children of his age seldom have a natural pleasure in soap and water. Therefore, not to mention his clothes, which had seen three months’ service in mire and dust, and his thick uncombed hair, the surface of his face and hands was dismally beclouded. He might well skulk behind the settle, on beholding such a bright, graceful damsel enter the house, instead of a rough-headed counterpart of himself, as he expected. ‘Is Heathcliff not here?’ she demanded, pulling off her gloves, and displaying fingers wonderfully whitened with doing nothing and staying indoors.
起初，希刺克厉夫很难被发现。如果说他在凯瑟琳不在之前粗心大意、不受人照顾的话，那么自那以后他的粗心程度要高出十倍。除了我之外，没有人善意地称他为肮脏的男孩，并要求他每周洗一次。他这个年纪的孩子很少对肥皂和水有天然的兴趣。因此，别说他的衣服已经穿了三个月，布满了泥泞和灰尘，还有他那浓密的、没有梳理的头发，就连他的脸和手上也都布满了灰暗的东西。当他看到这样一个聪明、优雅的少女走进屋子时，他很可能会躲在长椅后面，而不是像他想象的那样，是一个粗鲁的对手。 “希刺克厉夫不在吗？”她一边问道，一边脱下手套，因为待在室内无所事事，手指显得异常白皙。

‘Heathcliff, you may come forward,’ cried Mr. Hindley, enjoying his discomfiture, and gratified to see what a forbidding young blackguard he would be compelled to present himself. ‘You may come and wish Miss Catherine welcome, like the other servants.’
“希斯克利夫，你可以站出来，”辛德雷先生大声喊道，他享受着自己的窘迫，并很高兴地看到他将被迫表现出一个多么令人生畏的年轻恶棍。 “你可以像其他仆人一样过来欢迎凯瑟琳小姐。”

Cathy, catching a glimpse of her friend in his concealment, flew to embrace him; she bestowed seven or eight kisses on his cheek within the second, and then stopped, and drawing back, burst into a laugh, exclaiming, ‘Why, how very black and cross you look! and how how funny and grim! But that’s because I’m used to Edgar and Isabella Linton. Well, Heathcliff, have you forgotten me?’
凯茜瞥见了隐藏起来的朋友，飞奔过去拥抱他。不到一秒钟，她就在他的脸颊上亲了七八个吻，然后停了下来，退后一步，突然大笑起来，说道：“哎呀，你看起来多么黑啊，脾气暴躁啊！”多么有趣又多么残酷！但那是因为我习惯了埃德加和伊莎贝拉·林顿。那么，希刺克厉夫，你忘记我了吗？

She had some reason to put the question, for shame and pride threw double gloom over his countenance, and kept him immovable.
她提出这个问题是有原因的，因为羞耻和骄傲让他的脸色变得双重阴沉，让他一动不动。

‘Shake hands, Heathcliff,’ said Mr. Earnshaw, condescendingly; ‘once in a way, that is permitted.’
“握手，希斯克利夫，”恩肖先生居高临下地说。 “在某种程度上，这是允许的。”

‘I shall not,’ replied the boy, finding his tongue at last; ‘I shall not stand to be laughed at. I shall not bear it!’ And he would have broken from the circle, but Miss Cathy seized him again.
“我不会的，”男孩终于开口说话了，回答道。 ‘我不能忍受被人嘲笑。我不能忍受！”他本来想冲出圈子，但凯茜小姐又抓住了他。

‘I did not mean to laugh at you,’ she said; ‘I could not hinder myself: Heathcliff, shake hands at least! What are you sulky for? It was only that you looked odd. If you wash your face and brush your hair, it will be all right: but you are so dirty!’
“我不是故意嘲笑你的，”她说。 “我无法阻止自己：希刺克厉夫，至少握手吧！”你生什么闷气？只是你看起来很奇怪。你洗脸、梳头就可以了，但是你太脏了！”

She gazed concernedly at the dusky fingers she held in her own, and also at her dress; which she feared had gained no embellishment from its contact with his.
她关切地看着自己握着的黝黑的手指，还有她的衣服。她担心它与他的接触并没有得到任何修饰。

‘You needn’t have touched me!’ he answered, following her eye and snatching away his hand. ‘I shall be as dirty as I please: and I like to be dirty, and I will be dirty.’
“你不必碰我！”他回答道，顺着她的目光，抽回了自己的手。 “我想怎么脏就怎么脏：我喜欢脏，而且我也会脏。”

With that he dashed headforemost out of the room, amid the merriment of the master and mistress, and to the serious disturbance of Catherine; who could not comprehend how her remarks should have produced such an exhibition of bad temper.
说完，他一头冲出了房间，在男女主人的欢乐声中，凯瑟琳也受到了严重的干扰。谁也无法理解她的言论怎么会导致如此暴躁的表现。

After playing lady’s-maid to the new-comer, and putting my cakes in the oven, and making the house and kitchen cheerful with great fires, befitting Christmas-eve, I prepared to sit down and amuse myself by singing carols, all alone; regardless of Joseph’s affirmations that he considered the merry tunes I chose as next door to songs. He had retired to private prayer in his chamber, and Mr. and Mrs. Earnshaw were engaging Missy’s attention by sundry gay trifles bought for her to present to the little Lintons, as an acknowledgment of their kindness. They had invited them to spend the morrow at Wuthering Heights, and the invitation had been accepted, on one condition: Mrs. Linton begged that her darlings might be kept carefully apart from that ‘naughty swearing boy.’
在扮演新来者的女仆，把蛋糕放进烤箱，让房子和厨房生起熊熊的篝火（适合圣诞夜）之后，我准备坐下来独自唱颂歌自娱自乐；尽管约瑟夫声称他认为我选择的欢快曲调与歌曲相邻。他已经退休，在自己的房间里进行私人祈祷，恩肖先生和夫人正在用各种快乐的小玩意吸引米西的注意力，这些小玩意儿是给米西买的，送给小林惇一家，以感谢他们的好意。他们邀请他们明天去呼啸山庄度过，邀请被接受了，但有一个条件：林惇夫人恳求她的宝贝们小心地远离那个“顽皮的脏话男孩”。

Under these circumstances I remained solitary. I smelt the rich scent of the heating spices; and admired the shining kitchen utensils, the polished clock, decked in holly, the silver mugs ranged on a tray ready to be filled with mulled ale for supper; and above all, the speckless purity of my particular care the scoured and well-swept floor. I gave due inward applause to every object, and then I remembered how old Earnshaw used to come in when all was tidied, and call me a cant lass, and slip a shilling into my hand as a Christmas-box; and from that I went on to think of his fondness for Heathcliff, and his dread lest he should suffer neglect after death had removed him: and that naturally led me to consider the poor lad’s situation now, and from singing I changed my mind to crying. It struck me soon, however, there would be more sense in endeavouring to repair some of his wrongs than shedding tears over them: I got up and walked into the court to seek him. He was not far; I found him smoothing the glossy coat of the new pony in the stable, and feeding the other beasts, according to custom.
在这种情况下，我始终保持着孤独。我闻到了加热香料的浓郁香味；欣赏闪亮的厨房用具、用冬青装饰的抛光时钟、托盘上摆着的银色杯子，准备盛满晚饭时的热啤酒。最重要的是，我对擦洗干净的地板特别小心，一尘不染。我对每一件东西都给予了应有的内心掌声，然后我想起了恩肖以前在一切都收拾干净的时候进来时，骂我是个粗俗的姑娘，并把一先令塞到我手里作为圣诞礼盒；但我还是把它塞进了我的手里。从那时起，我继续想起他对希刺克厉夫的喜爱，以及他对死后受到忽视的恐惧，这使他离开了：这自然引导我考虑这个可怜的小伙子现在的处境，我从唱歌变成了哭泣。然而，我很快就意识到，努力纠正他的一些错误比为之流泪更有意义：我起身走进法庭寻找他。他就在不远的地方；我发现他在马厩里抚平新小马光滑的皮毛，并按照习俗喂养其他野兽。

‘Make haste, Heathcliff!’ I said, ‘the kitchen is so comfortable; and Joseph is up-stairs: make haste, and let me dress you smart before Miss Cathy comes out, and then you can sit together, with the whole hearth to yourselves, and have a long chatter till bedtime.’
“快点，希刺克厉夫！”我说，“厨房真舒服；快点吧！”约瑟夫在楼上：快点，让我在凯茜小姐出来之前把你打扮得漂漂亮亮的，然后你们就可以坐在一起，让整个壁炉都属于你们自己，一直聊到睡觉的时间。

He proceeded with his task, and never turned his head towards me.
他继续他的任务，没有把头转向我。

‘Come are you coming?’ I continued. ‘There’s a little cake for each of you, nearly enough; and you’ll need half-an-hour’s donning.’
“你来吗？”我继续说道。 “你们每人有一个小蛋糕，差不多够了；你需要半个小时的时间来穿。

I waited five minutes, but getting no answer left him. Catherine supped with her brother and sister-in-law: Joseph and I joined at an unsociable meal, seasoned with reproofs on one side and sauciness on the other. His cake and cheese remained on the table all night for the fairies. He managed to continue work till nine o’clock, and then marched dumb and dour to his chamber. Cathy sat up late, having a world of things to order for the reception of her new friends: she came into the kitchen once to speak to her old one; but he was gone, and she only stayed to ask what was the matter with him, and then went back. In the morning he rose early; and, as it was a holiday, carried his ill-humour on to the moors; not re-appearing till the family were departed for church. Fasting and reflection seemed to have brought him to a better spirit. He hung about me for a while, and having screwed up his courage, exclaimed abruptly ‘Nelly, make me decent, I’m going to be good.’
我等了五分钟，但没有得到他的答复。凯瑟琳和她的哥哥和嫂子一起吃晚饭：约瑟夫和我一起吃了一顿不合群的饭，一边是责备，另一边是粗俗。他的蛋糕和奶酪整晚都留在桌子上供仙女们享用。他设法继续工作到九点，然后默默地、闷闷不乐地走进自己的房间。凯茜熬夜到很晚，为了接待她的新朋友，她要订购一大堆东西：有一次她走进厨房和她的老朋友说话；但他已经走了，她只是留下来问他怎么了，然后就回去了。早上他起得很早；由于那天是假期，他把坏脾气带到了荒原上。直到家人出发去教堂才再次出现。禁食和反思似乎让他精神好多了。他在我身边待了一会儿，鼓起勇气，突然喊道：“耐莉，让我变得体面，我会做好的。”

‘High time, Heathcliff,’ I said; ‘you HAVE grieved Catherine: she’s sorry she ever came home, I daresay! It looks as if you envied her, because she is more thought of than you.’
“到了，希刺克厉夫，”我说。 “你让凯瑟琳伤心了：我敢说，她很遗憾自己没有回家！”看来你很嫉妒她，因为她比你更受人关注。”

The notion of ENVYING Catherine was incomprehensible to him, but the notion of grieving her he understood clearly enough.
嫉妒凯瑟琳的想法对他来说是不可理解的，但让她悲伤的想法他却很清楚。

‘Did she say she was grieved?’ he inquired, looking very serious.
“她有说她很伤心吗？”他问道，看上去很严肃。

‘She cried when I told her you were off again this morning.’
“当我告诉她你今天早上又要离开时，她哭了。”

‘Well, I cried last night,’ he returned, ‘and I had more reason to cry than she.’
“嗯，我昨晚哭了，”他回答道，“我比她更有理由哭。”

‘Yes: you had the reason of going to bed with a proud heart and an empty stomach,’ said I. ‘Proud people breed sad sorrows for themselves. But, if you be ashamed of your touchiness, you must ask pardon, mind, when she comes in. You must go up and offer to kiss her, and say you know best what to say; only do it heartily, and not as if you thought her converted into a stranger by her grand dress. And now, though I have dinner to get ready, I’ll steal time to arrange you so that Edgar Linton shall look quite a doll beside you: and that he does. You are younger, and yet, I’ll be bound, you are taller and twice as broad across the shoulders; you could knock him down in a twinkling; don’t you feel that you could?’
“是的，你有理由怀着骄傲的心和空腹的心情上床睡觉，”我说。“骄傲的人会为自己带来悲伤。”但是，如果你为自己的易怒感到羞耻，请注意，当她进来时，你必须请求原谅。你必须走上前主动吻她，并说你最知道该说什么；你必须走上前去吻她，并说你最知道该说什么；你必须走过去，主动吻她。只要发自内心地去做，而不是好像你认为她因为她的盛装而变成了陌生人。现在，虽然我要准备晚餐，但我会抽出时间来安排你，让埃德加·林惇在你身边看起来像个洋娃娃：他确实做到了。你更年轻，但我会被束缚，你更高，肩宽两倍；你可以瞬间把他打倒；你不觉得你可以吗？

Heathcliff’s face brightened a moment; then it was overcast afresh, and he sighed.
希刺克厉夫的脸色瞬间变得明亮起来。然后天又阴了，他叹了口气。

‘But, Nelly, if I knocked him down twenty times, that wouldn’t make him less handsome or me more so. I wish I had light hair and a fair skin, and was dressed and behaved as well, and had a chance of being as rich as he will be!’
“但是，耐莉，即使我把他击倒二十次，也不会让他变得不那么英俊，也不会让我变得更英俊。我希望我有浅色的头发和白皙的皮肤，穿得也好，举止也好，并且有机会像他一样富有！

‘And cried for mamma at every turn,’ I added, ‘and trembled if a country lad heaved his fist against you, and sat at home all day for a shower of rain. Oh, Heathcliff, you are showing a poor spirit! Come to the glass, and I’ll let you see what you should wish. Do you mark those two lines between your eyes; and those thick brows, that, instead of rising arched, sink in the middle; and that couple of black fiends, so deeply buried, who never open their windows boldly, but lurk glinting under them, like devil’s spies? Wish and learn to smooth away the surly wrinkles, to raise your lids frankly, and change the fiends to confident, innocent angels, suspecting and doubting nothing, and always seeing friends where they are not sure of foes. Don’t get the expression of a vicious cur that appears to know the kicks it gets are its desert, and yet hates all the world, as well as the kicker, for what it suffers.’
“每次都会哭着要妈妈，”我补充道，“如果一个乡下小伙子向你挥起拳头，整天坐在家里等待一场倾盆大雨，你就会浑身发抖。噢，希刺克厉夫，你的精神可真可怜！来到玻璃面前，我会让你看到你想要的东西。你是否标记了两眼之间的那两条线？那些浓密的眉毛不是拱起的，而是在中间凹陷的；还有那一对埋得那么深、从不大胆打开窗户、却像魔鬼的间谍一样潜伏在窗下闪闪发光的黑色恶魔？愿并学会抚平乖戾的皱纹，坦然地扬起眼皮，把恶魔变成自信、天真的天使，不怀疑、不怀疑，总是在不确定的敌人处看到朋友。不要看到一只恶毒的狗的表情，它似乎知道它受到的踢击是它的沙漠，但却憎恨整个世界，以及踢球者，因为它所遭受的痛苦。

‘In other words, I must wish for Edgar Linton’s great blue eyes and even forehead,’ he replied. ‘I do and that won’t help me to them.’
“换句话说，我必须希望埃德加·林惇有一双蓝色的大眼睛，甚至额头，”他回答道。 “我愿意，但这对我对他们没有帮助。”

‘A good heart will help you to a bonny face, my lad,’ I continued, ‘if you were a regular black; and a bad one will turn the bonniest into something worse than ugly. And now that we’ve done washing, and combing, and sulking tell me whether you don’t think yourself rather handsome? I’ll tell you, I do. You’re fit for a prince in disguise. Who knows but your father was Emperor of China, and your mother an Indian queen, each of them able to buy up, with one week’s income, Wuthering Heights and Thrushcross Grange together? And you were kidnapped by wicked sailors and brought to England. Were I in your place, I would frame high notions of my birth; and the thoughts of what I was should give me courage and dignity to support the oppressions of a little farmer!’
“我的小伙子，一颗善良的心会帮助你拥有一张漂亮的脸，”我继续说道，“如果你是一个普通的黑人；一个坏人会把最美丽的人变成比丑陋更糟糕的人。现在我们洗漱完毕，梳头完毕，生闷气告诉我，你是否觉得自己不太帅？我告诉你，我愿意。你很适合伪装的王子。谁知道你的父亲是中国皇帝，你的母亲是印度女王，他们每个人都可以用一周的收入一起买下呼啸山庄和画眉田庄？你被邪恶的水手绑架并带到了英国。如果我处在你的位置，我会对自己的出身抱有很高的期望；我的想法应该给我勇气和尊严来支持一个小农夫的压迫！

So I chattered on; and Heathcliff gradually lost his frown and began to look quite pleasant, when all at once our conversation was interrupted by a rumbling sound moving up the road and entering the court. He ran to the window and I to the door, just in time to behold the two Lintons descend from the family carriage, smothered in cloaks and furs, and the Earnshaws dismount from their horses: they often rode to church in winter. Catherine took a hand of each of the children, and brought them into the house and set them before the fire, which quickly put colour into their white faces.
于是我就喋喋不休；希刺克厉夫渐渐不再紧皱眉头，看上去很愉快，这时我们的谈话突然被路上传来的隆隆声打断，进入了法庭。他跑到窗边，我跑到门口，正好看到两个林惇一家从家庭马车上走下来，身上裹着斗篷和毛皮，恩肖一家下了马：冬天他们经常骑马去教堂。凯瑟琳拉着每个孩子的手，把他们带进屋，把他们放在火前，火很快就把他们苍白的脸染红了。

I urged my companion to hasten now and show his amiable humour, and he willingly obeyed; but ill luck would have it that, as he opened the door leading from the kitchen on one side, Hindley opened it on the other. They met, and the master, irritated at seeing him clean and cheerful, or, perhaps, eager to keep his promise to Mrs. Linton, shoved him back with a sudden thrust, and angrily bade Joseph ‘keep the fellow out of the room send him into the garret till dinner is over. He’ll be cramming his fingers in the tarts and stealing the fruit, if left alone with them a minute.’
我催促我的同伴赶紧表现出他和蔼可亲的幽默感，他欣然服从了。但不幸的是，当他打开一侧通向厨房的门时，欣德利也打开了另一侧的门。他们见面了，主人看到他干净又开朗，很恼火，或者也许是急于履行对林惇太太的承诺，猛地一推，把他推了回来，并愤怒地命令约瑟夫“让这个家伙滚出房间，送他出去”。他进阁楼直到晚餐结束。如果让他单独呆一分钟，他就会把手指塞进馅饼里，偷走水果。”

‘Nay, sir,’ I could not avoid answering, ‘he’ll touch nothing, not he: and I suppose he must have his share of the dainties as well as we.’
“不，先生，”我无法避免地回答，“他不会碰任何东西，他不会：我想他一定和我们一样有他那份美味。”

‘He shall have his share of my hand, if I catch him downstairs till dark,’ cried Hindley. ‘Begone, you vagabond! What! you are attempting the coxcomb, are you? Wait till I get hold of those elegant locks see if I won’t pull them a bit longer!’
“如果我能在天黑之前把他抓到楼下，他就会得到我的那一份手，”辛德雷喊道。 ‘走开，你这个流浪汉！什么！你正在尝试花花公子，是吗？等我拿到那把漂亮的锁，看我是否不再把它们拉长一点！

‘They are long enough already,’ observed Master Linton, peeping from the doorway; ‘I wonder they don’t make his head ache. It’s like a colt’s mane over his eyes!’
“它们已经够长了，”林惇少爷从门口往外看，说道。 “我想知道它们不会让他头疼。就像一匹小马的鬃毛遮住了他的眼睛！

He ventured this remark without any intention to insult; but Heathcliff’s violent nature was not prepared to endure the appearance of impertinence from one whom he seemed to hate, even then, as a rival. He seized a tureen of hot apple sauce (the first thing that came under his gripe) and dashed it full against the speaker’s face and neck; who instantly commenced a lament that brought Isabella and Catherine hurrying to the place. Mr. Earnshaw snatched up the culprit directly and conveyed him to his chamber; where, doubtless, he administered a rough remedy to cool the fit of passion, for he appeared red and breathless. I got the dishcloth, and rather spitefully scrubbed Edgar’s nose and mouth, affirming it served him right for meddling. His sister began weeping to go home, and Cathy stood by confounded, blushing for all.
他冒昧说出这句话，并没有任何侮辱的意图。但希刺克厉夫的暴力本性并没有准​​备好忍受他似乎憎恨的一个对手的无礼表现。他抓起一碗热苹果酱（他抓到的第一件事），猛地砸在说话者的脸上和脖子上；他立即开始哀叹，伊莎贝拉和凯瑟琳赶紧赶到了那个地方。恩肖先生直接一把抓住了罪犯，把他带到了自己的房间。毫无疑问，他在那里采取了一种粗暴的治疗方法来冷却激情，因为他显得通红、气喘吁吁。我拿起抹布，相当恶毒地擦了擦埃德加的鼻子和嘴巴，确认这是他多管闲事的罪魁祸首。他的妹妹哭着要回家，凯茜困惑地站在一旁，脸红了。

‘You should not have spoken to him!’ she expostulated with Master Linton. ‘He was in a bad temper, and now you’ve spoilt your visit; and he’ll be flogged: I hate him to be flogged! I can’t eat my dinner. Why did you speak to him, Edgar?’
“你不应该跟他说话！”她向林惇少爷告诫道。 “他脾气不好，现在你破坏了你的访问；他会被鞭打：我讨厌他被鞭打！我吃不下晚餐。埃德加，你为什么要跟他说话？

‘I didn’t,’ sobbed the youth, escaping from my hands, and finishing the remainder of the purification with his cambric pockethandkerchief. ‘I promised mamma that I wouldn’t say one word to him, and I didn’t.’
“我没有，”年轻人抽泣着，从我手中逃脱，并用他的麻布小手帕完成了剩下的净化工作。 “我向妈妈保证过我不会对他说任何一句话，但我没有。”

‘Well, don’t cry,’ replied Catherine, contemptuously; ‘you’re not killed. Don’t make more mischief; my brother is coming: be quiet! Hush, Isabella! Has anybody hurt you?’
“好吧，别哭，”凯瑟琳轻蔑地回答道。 ‘你没有被杀。不要再制造更多的恶作剧；我哥哥来了：安静！嘘，伊莎贝拉！有人伤害你吗？

‘There, there, children to your seats!’ cried Hindley, bustling in. ‘That brute of a lad has warmed me nicely. Next time, Master Edgar, take the law into your own fists it will give you an appetite!’
“好了，好了，孩子们到你们的座位上来！”辛德雷匆匆忙忙地喊道，“那个粗野的小伙子让我很温暖。”下次，埃德加大师，将法律握在手中，它会让你有胃口的！

The little party recovered its equanimity at sight of the fragrant feast. They were hungry after their ride, and easily consoled, since no real harm had befallen them. Mr. Earnshaw carved bountiful platefuls, and the mistress made them merry with lively talk. I waited behind her chair, and was pained to behold Catherine, with dry eyes and an indifferent air, commence cutting up the wing of a goose before her. ‘An unfeeling child,’ I thought to myself; ‘how lightly she dismisses her old playmate’s troubles. I could not have imagined her to be so selfish.’ She lifted a mouthful to her lips: then she set it down again: her cheeks flushed, and the tears gushed over them. She slipped her fork to the floor, and hastily dived under the cloth to conceal her emotion. I did not call her unfeeling long; for I perceived she was in purgatory throughout the day, and wearying to find an opportunity of getting by herself, or paying a visit to Heathcliff, who had been locked up by the master: as I discovered, on endeavouring to introduce to him a private mess of victuals.
看到香喷喷的盛宴，一行人又恢复了平静。骑行结束后，他们感到饥饿，而且很容易得到安慰，因为他们并没有受到真正的伤害。恩肖先生烹制了丰盛的菜肴，女主人则用活泼的谈话逗得他们开心。我在她的椅子后面等着，看到凯瑟琳眼睛干涩，神态冷漠，开始在她面前切鹅翅膀，我感到很痛苦。 “真是个冷酷无情的孩子。”我心里想。 ‘她对她老玩伴的烦恼是多么轻松地置之不理啊。我无法想象她会如此自私。”她拿起一口放到唇边，然后又放下来：她的脸颊通红，泪水涌出。她把叉子滑到地板上，然后急忙钻进布下面隐藏自己的情绪。我并没有长期称她无情；因为我发现她一整天都在炼狱里，厌倦了寻找机会独自一人，或者去拜访被主人关起来的希斯克利夫：正如我在努力向他介绍一位私人朋友时发现的那样，食物一团糟。

In the evening we had a dance. Cathy begged that he might be liberated then, as Isabella Linton had no partner: her entreaties were vain, and I was appointed to supply the deficiency. We got rid of all gloom in the excitement of the exercise, and our pleasure was increased by the arrival of the Gimmerton band, mustering fifteen strong: a trumpet, a trombone, clarionets, bassoons, French horns, and a bass viol, besides singers. They go the rounds of all the respectable houses, and receive contributions every Christmas, and we esteemed it a first-rate treat to hear them. After the usual carols had been sung, we set them to songs and glees. Mrs. Earnshaw loved the music, and so they gave us plenty.
晚上我们举行了舞会。凯茜恳求他可以被释放，因为伊莎贝拉·林顿没有伴侣：她的恳求是徒劳的，我被任命来弥补不足。我们在兴奋的练习中摆脱了所有的忧郁，吉默顿乐队的到来增加了我们的乐趣，吉默顿乐队的到来增加了我们的乐趣，它聚集了十五名强大的人：除了歌手之外，还有小号、长号、单簧管、巴松管、圆号和低音提琴。 。他们巡视所有受人尊敬的房子，每年圣诞节都会收到捐款，我们认为听到他们的声音是一流的享受。唱完通常的颂歌后，我们让他们唱歌和欢乐。恩肖夫人喜欢音乐，所以他们给了我们很多音乐。

Catherine loved it too: but she said it sounded sweetest at the top of the steps, and she went up in the dark: I followed. They shut the house door below, never noting our absence, it was so full of people. She made no stay at the stairs’-head, but mounted farther, to the garret where Heathcliff was confined, and called him. He stubbornly declined answering for a while: she persevered, and finally persuaded him to hold communion with her through the boards. I let the poor things converse unmolested, till I supposed the songs were going to cease, and the singers to get some refreshment: then I clambered up the ladder to warn her. Instead of finding her outside, I heard her voice within. The little monkey had crept by the skylight of one garret, along the roof, into the skylight of the other, and it was with the utmost difficulty I could coax her out again. When she did come, Heathcliff came with her, and she insisted that I should take him into the kitchen, as my fellow-servant had gone to a neighbour’s, to be removed from the sound of our ‘devil’s psalmody,’ as it pleased him to call it. I told them I intended by no means to encourage their tricks: but as the prisoner had never broken his fast since yesterday’s dinner, I would wink at his cheating Mr. Hindley that once. He went down: I set him a stool by the fire, and offered him a quantity of good things: but he was sick and could eat little, and my attempts to entertain him were thrown away. He leant his two elbows on his knees, and his chin on his hands and remained rapt in dumb meditation. On my inquiring the subject of his thoughts, he answered gravely ‘I’m trying to settle how I shall pay Hindley back. I don’t care how long I wait, if I can only do it at last. I hope he will not die before I do!’
凯瑟琳也喜欢它：但她说在台阶顶部听起来最甜美，然后她在黑暗中上升：我跟着。他们关上了下面的门，根本没有注意到我们不在，因为里面挤满了人。她没有在楼梯口停留，而是爬上更远的地方，到了关押希刺克厉夫的阁楼，并叫住了他。他一时固执地拒绝回答，但她坚持了下来，终于说服他通过展板与她交流。我让这些可怜的东西不受干扰地交谈，直到我认为歌曲会停止，歌手们会得到一些茶点：然后我爬上梯子警告她。我没有在外面找到她，而是在里面听到了她的声音。小猴子已经从一间阁楼的天窗爬了出来，沿着屋顶，爬进了另一间阁楼的天窗，我费了九牛二虎之力才把她又哄出来。当她来的时候，希刺克厉夫也跟着她一起来，她坚持要我带他去厨房，因为我的仆人已经去了邻居家，远离我们的“魔鬼赞美诗”的声音，因为这让他高兴来调用它。我告诉他们，我无意鼓励他们的把戏：但由于囚犯自昨天晚餐以来从未打破过他的斋戒，那一次我会对他作弊的欣德利先生眨眼。他下去了：我在火边给他放了一张凳子，给了他许多好东西，但他病了，吃得很少，我招待他的努力都被放弃了。他把两只手肘撑在膝盖上，双手撑着下巴，全神贯注地陷入沉思。当我询问他的想法时，他严肃地回答：“我正在努力解决如何偿还欣德利的问题。”我不在乎等多久，只要我最后能做到。我希望他不会在我之前死！”

‘For shame, Heathcliff!’ said I. ‘It is for God to punish wicked people; we should learn to forgive.’
“真是耻辱，希刺克厉夫！”我说，“惩罚恶人是上帝的责任；惩罚恶人是上帝的职责。”我们应该学会宽恕。

‘No, God won’t have the satisfaction that I shall,’ he returned. ‘I only wish I knew the best way! Let me alone, and I’ll plan it out: while I’m thinking of that I don’t feel pain.’
“不，上帝不会让我满意，”他回答道。 “我只希望我知道最好的方法！别管我，我会计划好：当我想到这一点时，我不会感到痛苦。

‘But, Mr. Lockwood, I forget these tales cannot divert you. I’m annoyed how I should dream of chattering on at such a rate; and your gruel cold, and you nodding for bed! I could have told Heathcliff’s history, all that you need hear, in half a dozen words.’
“但是，洛克伍德先生，我忘记了这些故事无法让你分心。”我很生气我怎么会梦想以这样的速度喋喋不休；你的粥冷了，你点头睡觉！我本可以用六句话讲述希刺克厉夫的历史，以及你需要听到的一切。

Thus interrupting herself, the housekeeper rose, and proceeded to lay aside her sewing; but I felt incapable of moving from the hearth, and I was very far from nodding. ‘Sit still, Mrs. Dean,’ I cried; ‘do sit still another half-hour. You’ve done just right to tell the story leisurely. That is the method I like; and you must finish it in the same style. I am interested in every character you have mentioned, more or less.’
女管家打断了自己的话，站起身来，放下了手中的针线活。但我感觉无法离开壁炉，而且离点头还很远。 “别动，迪安太太，”我喊道。 “再坐半个小时。”你从容不迫地讲述这个故事做得恰到好处。这就是我喜欢的方法；并且你必须以同样的风格完成它。我对你提到的每一个角色都或多或少感兴趣。

‘The clock is on the stroke of eleven, sir.’
“时钟敲响十一点了，先生。”

‘No matter I’m not accustomed to go to bed in the long hours. One or two is early enough for a person who lies till ten.’
“不管怎样，我不习惯长时间睡觉。对于一个睡到十点的人来说，一两次就足够了。

‘You shouldn’t lie till ten. There’s the very prime of the morning gone long before that time. A person who has not done one-half his day’s work by ten o’clock, runs a chance of leaving the other half undone.’
“十点之前你不应该撒谎。早在那个时间之前，正午就已经过去了。一个人如果在十点钟之前还没有完成一天工作的一半，那么他就有可能无法完成另一半的工作。

‘Nevertheless, Mrs. Dean, resume your chair; because to-morrow I intend lengthening the night till afternoon. I prognosticate for myself an obstinate cold, at least.’
“尽管如此，迪恩夫人，请回到你的椅子上；因为明天我打算把夜晚延长到下午。至少我预测自己会得顽固感冒。

‘I hope not, sir. Well, you must allow me to leap over some three years; during that space Mrs. Earnshaw ‘
“我希望不会，先生。好吧，你必须允许我跨越大约三年；在那段时间，恩肖夫人‘

‘No, no, I’ll allow nothing of the sort! Are you acquainted with the mood of mind in which, if you were seated alone, and the cat licking its kitten on the rug before you, you would watch the operation so intently that puss’s neglect of one ear would put you seriously out of temper?’
‘不，不，我不会允许这样的事情发生！你是否熟悉这样的心情：如果你独自一人坐着，猫正在你面前的地毯上舔它的小猫，你会如此专注地观看手术，以至于猫忽视一只耳朵会让你严重发脾气？ '

‘A terribly lazy mood, I should say.’
“我应该说，这是一种非常懒惰的心情。”

‘On the contrary, a tiresomely active one. It is mine, at present; and, therefore, continue minutely. I perceive that people in these regions acquire over people in towns the value that a spider in a dungeon does over a spider in a cottage, to their various occupants; and yet the deepened attraction is not entirely owing to the situation of the looker-on. They DO live more in earnest, more in themselves, and less in surface, change, and frivolous external things. I could fancy a love for life here almost possible; and I was a fixed unbeliever in any love of a year’s standing. One state resembles setting a hungry man down to a single dish, on which he may concentrate his entire appetite and do it justice; the other, introducing him to a table laid out by French cooks: he can perhaps extract as much enjoyment from the whole; but each part is a mere atom in his regard and remembrance.’
‘恰恰相反，是一个令人厌烦的活跃者。目前它是我的；因此，请继续详细讨论。我认为这些地区的人们比城镇里的人们获得的价值，就像地牢里的蜘蛛比小屋里的蜘蛛对不同居住者的价值一样；然而，吸引力的加深并不完全是由于旁观者的处境。他们确实生活得更加认真，更多地关注自己，而不是表面、变化和琐碎的外在事物。我几乎可以想象出对这里生活的热爱；我对任何能维持一年的爱情都是坚决不相信的。一种状态就像把一个饥饿的人放在一道菜上，他可以集中全部胃口并恰到好处地吃它。另一个是向他介绍法国厨师摆设的餐桌：他也许可以从整体中获得同样多的乐趣；但在他的关注和记忆中，每一部分都只是一个原子。

‘Oh! here we are the same as anywhere else, when you get to know us,’ observed Mrs. Dean, somewhat puzzled at my speech.
'哦！当你了解我们时，我们在这里和其他地方一样。”迪恩夫人对我的讲话感到有些困惑。

‘Excuse me,’ I responded; ‘you, my good friend, are a striking evidence against that assertion. Excepting a few provincialisms of slight consequence, you have no marks of the manners which I am habituated to consider as peculiar to your class. I am sure you have thought a great deal more than the generality of servants think. You have been compelled to cultivate your reflective faculties for want of occasions for frittering your life away in silly trifles.’
“对不起，”我回答道。 ‘我的好朋友，你是反对这一论断的有力证据。除了一些无关紧要的地方主义之外，你没有任何我习惯认为是你们阶级所特有的举止特征。我相信你的想法比一般仆人想象的要多得多。你被迫培养你的反思能力，因为你没有机会把你的生命浪费在愚蠢的琐事上。

Mrs. Dean laughed.
迪恩夫人笑了。

‘I certainly esteem myself a steady, reasonable kind of body,’ she said; ‘not exactly from living among the hills and seeing one set of faces, and one series of actions, from year’s end to year’s end; but I have undergone sharp discipline, which has taught me wisdom; and then, I have read more than you would fancy, Mr. Lockwood. You could not open a book in this library that I have not looked into, and got something out of also: unless it be that range of Greek and Latin, and that of French; and those I know one from another: it is as much as you can expect of a poor man’s daughter. However, if I am to follow my story in true gossip’s fashion, I had better go on; and instead of leaping three years, I will be content to pass to the next summer the summer of 1778, that is nearly twenty-three years ago.’
“我当然认为自己是一个稳定、理性的身体，”她说； “不完全是因为住在山里，从年终到年终看到一组面孔，一系列动作；但我经历过严格的纪律，这教会了我智慧；然后，洛克伍德先生，我读到的书比你想象的还要多。你不可能在这个图书馆里打开一本我没有研究过的书，并从中得到一些东西：除非它是希腊语、拉丁语和法语的范围；除非它是希腊语、拉丁语和法语的范围；我对这些人一一认识：这就是你对一个穷人的女儿所能期望的。然而，如果我想以真正的八卦方式讲述我的故事，我最好继续下去；我不会跨越三年，而是会满足于进入下一个夏天，即 1778 年的夏天，那已经是近二十三年前的事了。

Chapter VIII
第八章

ON the morning of a fine June day my first bonny little nursling, and the last of the ancient Earnshaw stock, was born. We were busy with the hay in a far-away field, when the girl that usually brought our breakfasts came running an hour too soon across the meadow and up the lane, calling me as she ran.
在六月一个晴朗的早晨，我的第一个漂亮的小宝宝，也是最后一个古老的恩肖家畜诞生了。我们正在远处的田野里忙着干草，这时那个通常给我们送早餐的女孩提前一个小时跑过草地，沿着小巷跑来，一边跑一边喊着我。

‘Oh, such a grand bairn!’ she panted out. ‘The finest lad that ever breathed! But the doctor says missis must go: he says she’s been in a consumption these many months. I heard him tell Mr. Hindley: and now she has nothing to keep her, and she’ll be dead before winter. You must come home directly. You’re to nurse it, Nelly: to feed it with sugar and milk, and take care of it day and night. I wish I were you, because it will be all yours when there is no missis!’
“噢，好大的婴儿啊！”她气喘吁吁地说。 “有史以来最优秀的小伙子！但医生说小姐必须离开：他说她这几个月一直处于肺病状态。我听到他告诉辛德雷先生：现在她没有什么可以留住她了，冬天之前她就会死。你必须直接回家。你要照顾它，耐莉：用糖和牛奶喂养它，日夜照顾它。我希望我是你，因为当没有小姐的时候，一切就都是你的了！

‘But is she very ill?’ I asked, flinging down my rake and tying my bonnet.
“但是她病得很重吗？”我一边问道，一边扔下耙子，系上帽子。

‘I guess she is; yet she looks bravely,’ replied the girl, ‘and she talks as if she thought of living to see it grow a man. She’s out of her head for joy, it’s such a beauty! If I were her I’m certain I should not die: I should get better at the bare sight of it, in spite of Kenneth. I was fairly mad at him. Dame Archer brought the cherub down to master, in the house, and his face just began to light up, when the old croaker steps forward, and says he ‘Earnshaw, it’s a blessing your wife has been spared to leave you this son. When she came, I felt convinced we shouldn’t keep her long; and now, I must tell you, the winter will probably finish her. Don’t take on, and fret about it too much: it can’t be helped. And besides, you should have known better than to choose such a rush of a lass!‘‘
“我猜她是；”但她看起来很勇敢，”女孩回答道，“而且她说话的样子就好像她想活着看到它长成一个男人。她高兴坏了，真是太美了！如果我是她，我确信我不会死：尽管有肯尼斯，我只要看到它就会好起来。我对他很生气。阿切尔夫人把小天使带到了屋里的主人面前，他的脸刚刚开始发光，这时老鱼走上前来，说道：“恩肖，你的妻子幸免于难，给你留下了这个儿子，这是一件幸事。”当她来的时候，我确信我们不应该让她呆得太久。现在，我必须告诉你，冬天可能会终结她。不要承担太多，也不要太担心：这是没有办法的。而且，你早该知道不要选择这么急的一个姑娘！”

‘And what did the master answer?’ I inquired.
“那么师父是怎么回答的呢？”我问道。

‘I think he swore: but I didn’t mind him, I was straining to see the bairn,’ and she began again to describe it rapturously. I, as zealous as herself, hurried eagerly home to admire, on my part; though I was very sad for Hindley’s sake. He had room in his heart only for two idols his wife and himself: he doted on both, and adored one, and I couldn’t conceive how he would bear the loss.
“我想他发誓了：但我不介意他，我正努力想看看婴儿，”她又开始兴高采烈地描述它。我和她一样热心，急切地赶回家去欣赏。尽管我为欣德雷的缘故感到非常难过。他的心里只能容纳他的妻子和他自己两个偶像：他两个都宠爱，也崇拜一个，我无法想象他将如何承受这一损失。

When we got to Wuthering Heights, there he stood at the front door; and, as I passed in, I asked, ‘how was the baby?’
当我们到达呼啸山庄时，他站在前门。当我进去时，我问：“孩子怎么样？”

‘Nearly ready to run about, Nell!’ he replied, putting on a cheerful smile.
“内尔，已经准备好到处跑了！”他回答道，露出了愉快的微笑。

‘And the mistress?’ I ventured to inquire; ‘the doctor says she’s ‘
“那么女主人呢？”我大胆地问道。 “医生说她是”

‘Damn the doctor!’ he interrupted, reddening. ‘Frances is quite right: she’ll be perfectly well by this time next week. Are you going up-stairs? will you tell her that I’ll come, if she’ll promise not to talk. I left her because she would not hold her tongue; and she must tell her Mr. Kenneth says she must be quiet.’
“该死的医生！”他红着脸打断道。 “弗朗西斯说得很对：到下周这个时候她就会完全康复。你要上楼吗？如果她保证不说话，你能告诉她我会来吗？我离开她是因为她不肯闭嘴；她必须告诉她肯尼斯先生说她必须保持安静。

I delivered this message to Mrs. Earnshaw; she seemed in flighty spirits, and replied merrily, ‘I hardly spoke a word, Ellen, and there he has gone out twice, crying. Well, say I promise I won’t speak: but that does not bind me not to laugh at him!’
我把这条消息转达给了恩肖夫人；她看上去情绪高涨，高兴地回答道：“我几乎没说一句话，艾伦，他已经两次哭着出去了。”好吧，我保证不会说话：但这并不意味着我不能嘲笑他！

Poor soul! Till within a week of her death that gay heart never failed her; and her husband persisted doggedly, nay, furiously, in affirming her health improved every day. When Kenneth warned him that his medicines were useless at that stage of the malady, and he needn’t put him to further expense by attending her, he retorted, ‘I know you need not she’s well she does not want any more attendance from you! She never was in a consumption. It was a fever; and it is gone: her pulse is as slow as mine now, and her cheek as cool.’
可怜的灵魂！直到她死后一周内，她那颗快乐的心从未让她失望过。她的丈夫顽强地、不，甚至是愤怒地坚持认为她的健康状况每天都在改善。当肯尼思警告他，他的药物在疾病的那个阶段没有用处，他不需要让他因照顾她而花费更多费用时，他反驳道，“我知道你不需要，她很好，她不需要你再照顾她” ！她从来没有患过肺病。那是发烧；现在一切都消失了：她的脉搏和我现在一样缓慢，她的脸颊也一样冰凉。”

He told his wife the same story, and she seemed to believe him; but one night, while leaning on his shoulder, in the act of saying she thought she should be able to get up to-morrow, a fit of coughing took her a very slight one he raised her in his arms; she put her two hands about his neck, her face changed, and she was dead.
他给妻子讲了同样的故事，她似乎相信了他。但有一天晚上，她靠在他的肩膀上，正要说她明天应该能起床时，一阵轻微的咳嗽使她咳嗽，他把她抱在怀里；她用两只手搂住他的脖子，脸色变了，她死了。

As the girl had anticipated, the child Hareton fell wholly into my hands. Mr. Earnshaw, provided he saw him healthy and never heard him cry, was contented, as far as regarded him. For himself, he grew desperate: his sorrow was of that kind that will not lament. He neither wept nor prayed; he cursed and defied: execrated God and man, and gave himself up to reckless dissipation. The servants could not bear his tyrannical and evil conduct long: Joseph and I were the only two that would stay. I had not the heart to leave my charge; and besides, you know, I had been his foster-sister, and excused his behaviour more readily than a stranger would. Joseph remained to hector over tenants and labourers; and because it was his vocation to be where he had plenty of wickedness to reprove.
正如女孩所料，哈里顿这个孩子完全落入了我的手中。恩肖先生只要看到他健康并且从未听到他哭泣，就对他而言就心满意足了。对于他自己来说，他变得绝望：他的悲伤是那种不会哀叹的悲伤。他既不哭泣，也不祈祷；他咒骂、反抗：咒骂上帝和人类，并且放纵自己的放荡。仆人们无法忍受他的暴虐和邪恶行为太久：约瑟夫和我是唯一留下来的两个人。我不忍心离开我的职责；此外，你知道，我是他的养姐妹，比陌生人更容易原谅他的行为。约瑟夫仍然对佃户和劳工进行威吓。因为他的使命是去有很多邪恶需要责备的地方。

The master’s bad ways and bad companions formed a pretty example for Catherine and Heathcliff. His treatment of the latter was enough to make a fiend of a saint. And, truly, it appeared as if the lad WERE possessed of something diabolical at that period. He delighted to witness Hindley degrading himself past redemption; and became daily more notable for savage sullenness and ferocity. I could not half tell what an infernal house we had. The curate dropped calling, and nobody decent came near us, at last; unless Edgar Linton’s visits to Miss Cathy might be an exception. At fifteen she was the queen of the country-side; she had no peer; and she did turn out a haughty, headstrong creature! I own I did not like her, after infancy was past; and I vexed her frequently by trying to bring down her arrogance: she never took an aversion to me, though. She had a wondrous constancy to old attachments: even Heathcliff kept his hold on her affections unalterably; and young Linton, with all his superiority, found it difficult to make an equally deep impression. He was my late master: that is his portrait over the fireplace. It used to hang on one side, and his wife’s on the other; but hers has been removed, or else you might see something of what she was. Can you make that out?
主人的坏习惯和坏同伴为凯瑟琳和希刺克厉夫树立了很好的榜样。他对后者的对待，足以使圣人成为恶魔。确实，这个小伙子在那个时期似乎拥有某种恶魔般的东西。他很高兴看到辛德雷自我贬低而无法得到救赎。并以野蛮的阴沉和凶猛而日益引人注目。我简直无法形容我们的房子是多么的地狱。牧师不再打电话了，终于没有一个正派的人靠近我们了。除非埃德加·林惇拜访凯茜小姐可能是个例外。十五岁时，她已成为乡村女王；她没有同龄人；她确实是一个傲慢、任性的人！我承认我不喜欢她，自从婴儿期过去之后，我就不再喜欢她了。我经常试图降低她的傲慢态度，惹恼了她：不过，她从来没有厌恶我。她对旧有的依恋有一种奇妙的恒久不变：甚至希刺克厉夫也对她的感情保持着不可改变的态度。年轻的林惇尽管具有优越感，却很难给人留下同样深刻的印象。他是我已故的主人：那是他壁炉上方的肖像。过去，它挂在一侧，他妻子的则挂在另一侧。但她的已经被移除了，否则你可能会看到她的一些东西。你能看出来吗？

Mrs. Dean raised the candle, and I discerned a soft-featured face, exceedingly resembling the young lady at the Heights, but more pensive and amiable in expression. It formed a sweet picture. The long light hair curled slightly on the temples; the eyes were large and serious; the figure almost too graceful. I did not marvel how Catherine Earnshaw could forget her first friend for such an individual. I marvelled much how he, with a mind to correspond with his person, could fancy my idea of Catherine Earnshaw.
迪恩夫人举起了蜡烛，我看到一张五官柔和的脸，与高地的那位小姐极为相似，但表情更加沉思和和蔼可亲。形成了一幅甜蜜的画面。浅色长发在鬓角微微卷曲；眼睛又大又严肃。身材几乎过于优美。我并不奇怪凯瑟琳·恩肖怎么会因为这样一个人而忘记她的第一个朋友。我非常惊讶，他的思想与他的性格相符，竟然能想象出我对凯瑟琳·恩肖的看法。

‘A very agreeable portrait,’ I observed to the house-keeper. ‘Is it like?’
“一幅非常令人愉快的肖像，”我对管家说。 “是这样吗？”

‘Yes,’ she answered; ‘but he looked better when he was animated; that is his everyday countenance: he wanted spirit in general.’
“是的，”她回答道。 “但他生气时看起来更好；这就是他日常的表情：他总体上需要精神。

Catherine had kept up her acquaintance with the Lintons since her five-weeks’ residence among them; and as she had no temptation to show her rough side in their company, and had the sense to be ashamed of being rude where she experienced such invariable courtesy, she imposed unwittingly on the old lady and gentleman by her ingenious cordiality; gained the admiration of Isabella, and the heart and soul of her brother: acquisitions that flattered her from the first for she was full of ambition and led her to adopt a double character without exactly intending to deceive any one. In the place where she heard Heathcliff termed a ‘vulgar young ruffian,’ and ‘worse than a brute,’ she took care not to act like him; but at home she had small inclination to practise politeness that would only be laughed at, and restrain an unruly nature when it would bring her neither credit nor praise.
凯瑟琳自从在林惇一家住了五个星期以来，一直与他们保持着熟悉的关系。由于她不愿意在他们面前表现出粗暴的一面，而且在经历了如此不变的礼貌时，她有一种因粗鲁而感到羞耻的感觉，所以她不知不觉地以她巧妙的热情强加给了这位老太太和绅士。赢得了伊莎贝拉的钦佩，以及她哥哥的真心和灵魂：这些成就从一开始就让她受宠若惊，因为她充满野心，并导致她采取双重性格，而无意欺骗任何人。在她听到希刺克厉夫被称为“粗俗的小流氓”和“比畜生还不如”的地方，她小心翼翼地不表现得像他一样；但在家里，她不太愿意表现出礼貌，因为这只会被嘲笑；而当她既不会给她带来荣誉，也不会得到赞扬时，她就会抑制不守规矩的本性。

Mr. Edgar seldom mustered courage to visit Wuthering Heights openly. He had a terror of Earnshaw’s reputation, and shrunk from encountering him; and yet he was always received with our best attempts at civility: the master himself avoided offending him, knowing why he came; and if he could not be gracious, kept out of the way. I rather think his appearance there was distasteful to Catherine; she was not artful, never played the coquette, and had evidently an objection to her two friends meeting at all; for when Heathcliff expressed contempt of Linton in his presence, she could not half coincide, as she did in his absence; and when Linton evinced disgust and antipathy to Heathcliff, she dared not treat his sentiments with indifference, as if depreciation of her playmate were of scarcely any consequence to her. I’ve had many a laugh at her perplexities and untold troubles, which she vainly strove to hide from my mockery. That sounds ill-natured: but she was so proud it became really impossible to pity her distresses, till she should be chastened into more humility. She did bring herself, finally, to confess, and to confide in me: there was not a soul else that she might fashion into an adviser.
埃德加先生很少鼓起勇气公开参观呼啸山庄。他对恩萧的名声感到恐惧，不敢与他见面。然而，我们总是尽最大努力礼貌地接待他：主人自己避免冒犯他，因为他知道他来的目的。如果他不能表现出和蔼可亲的态度，就将他挡在一边。我倒觉得凯瑟琳不太喜欢他的样子。她并不狡猾，从不卖弄风骚，而且显然根本反对她的两个朋友见面。因为当希刺克厉夫在林惇在场时表达出对他的蔑视时，她不可能像他不在场时那样完全一致。当林惇对希刺克厉夫表现出厌恶和反感时，她不敢对他的感情漠不关心，仿佛她的玩伴的贬低对她来说几乎没有任何影响。我曾多次嘲笑她的困惑和难以言喻的烦恼，而她却徒劳地试图隐藏这些，以躲避我的嘲笑。这听起来很不怀好意：但她太骄傲了，根本不可能同情她的痛苦，除非她受到磨炼，变得更加谦卑。最后，她确实向我坦白和吐露心声：没有其他人可以让她成为顾问。

Mr. Hindley had gone from home one afternoon, and Heathcliff presumed to give himself a holiday on the strength of it. He had reached the age of sixteen then, I think, and without having bad features, or being deficient in intellect, he contrived to convey an impression of inward and outward repulsiveness that his present aspect retains no traces of. In the first place, he had by that time lost the benefit of his early education: continual hard work, begun soon and concluded late, had extinguished any curiosity he once possessed in pursuit of knowledge, and any love for books or learning. His childhood’s sense of superiority, instilled into him by the favours of old Mr. Earnshaw, was faded away. He struggled long to keep up an equality with Catherine in her studies, and yielded with poignant though silent regret: but he yielded completely; and there was no prevailing on him to take a step in the way of moving upward, when he found he must, necessarily, sink beneath his former level. Then personal appearance sympathised with mental deterioration: he acquired a slouching gait and ignoble look; his naturally reserved disposition was exaggerated into an almost idiotic excess of unsociable moroseness; and he took a grim pleasure, apparently, in exciting the aversion rather than the esteem of his few acquaintance.
一天下午，辛德雷先生离家出走，希刺克厉夫想借此机会给自己放个假。我想，他那时已经十六岁了，虽然没有坏相，也没有智力上的缺陷，但他却设法给人一种从内到外令人厌恶的印象，而他现在的面貌却没有留下任何痕迹。首先，他那时已经失去了早期教育所带来的好处：开始得早、结束得晚的持续努力，已经浇灭了他曾经拥有的追求知识的好奇心，以及对书籍和学习的热爱。他童年时因老恩肖先生的恩惠而灌输给他的优越感已经消失了。他为在学业上与凯瑟琳保持平等而奋斗了很长一段时间，并带着令人心酸但无声的遗憾屈服了：但他完全屈服了；他完全屈服了。当他发现自己必然会跌落到以前的水平之下时，没有人说服他向上迈出一步。然后，他的外表与精神衰退相伴：他的步态无精打采，表情卑鄙。他天生的内向性格被夸大为一种近乎愚蠢的不合群的忧郁情绪。显然，他对激起他那为数不多的熟人的厌恶而不是尊重感到高兴。

Catherine and he were constant companions still at his seasons of respite from labour; but he had ceased to express his fondness for her in words, and recoiled with angry suspicion from her girlish caresses, as if conscious there could be no gratification in lavishing such marks of affection on him. On the before-named occasion he came into the house to announce his intention of doing nothing, while I was assisting Miss Cathy to arrange her dress: she had not reckoned on his taking it into his head to be idle; and imagining she would have the whole place to herself, she managed, by some means, to inform Mr. Edgar of her brother’s absence, and was then preparing to receive him.
在他休息的时候，凯瑟琳和他仍然是忠实的伙伴。但他不再用言语表达对她的喜爱，并且对她少女般的爱抚感到愤怒和怀疑，仿佛意识到在他身上挥霍如此多的爱意并不能得到满足。在前面提到的那个场合，他进屋宣布他打算无所事事，而我正在协助凯茜小姐整理她的衣服：她没有想到他会认为自己无所事事；她想象着自己会拥有整个地方，于是设法通过某种方式通知埃德加先生她哥哥不在，然后准备接待他。

‘Cathy, are you busy this afternoon?’ asked Heathcliff. ‘Are you going anywhere?’
“凯茜，你今天下午忙吗？”希刺克厉夫问道。 “你要去哪儿吗？”

‘No, it is raining,’ she answered.
“不，正在下雨，”她回答道。

‘Why have you that silk frock on, then?’ he said. ‘Nobody coming here, I hope?’
“那你为什么穿那件丝绸连衣裙呢？”他说。 “我希望没有人来这里吧？”

‘Not that I know of,’ stammered Miss: ‘but you should be in the field now, Heathcliff. It is an hour past dinnertime: I thought you were gone.’
“据我所知，”小姐结结巴巴地说：“但你现在应该在外地了，希刺克厉夫。”晚餐时间已经过去一个小时了：我以为你已经走了。”

‘Hindley does not often free us from his accursed presence,’ observed the boy. ‘I’ll not work any more to-day: I’ll stay with you.’
“欣德雷并不经常让我们摆脱他该诅咒的存在，”男孩观察到。 “我今天不再工作：我会和你在一起。”

‘Oh, but Joseph will tell,’ she suggested; ‘you’d better go!’
“哦，但约瑟夫会告诉你的，”她建议道。 “你最好走吧！”

‘Joseph is loading lime on the further side of Penistone Crags; it will take him till dark, and he’ll never know.’
“约瑟夫正在佩尼斯通峭壁的另一边装载石灰；直到天黑他才会知道。

So, saying, he lounged to the fire, and sat down. Catherine reflected an instant, with knitted brows she found it needful to smooth the way for an intrusion. ‘Isabella and Edgar Linton talked of calling this afternoon,’ she said, at the conclusion of a minute’s silence. ‘As it rains, I hardly expect them; but they may come, and if they do, you run the risk of being scolded for no good.’
说着，他懒洋洋地走到火边坐下。凯瑟琳想了想，皱起了眉头，她觉得有必要为闯入铺平道路。 “伊莎贝拉和埃德加·林顿谈到今天下午打电话，”在一分钟的默哀结束后，她说道。 “因为下雨，我很难期待他们；但他们可能会来，如果他们来了，你就有被骂的风险。

‘Order Ellen to say you are engaged, Cathy,’ he persisted; ‘don’t turn me out for those pitiful, silly friends of yours! I’m on the point, sometimes, of complaining that they but I’ll not ‘
“命令艾伦说你已经订婚了，凯茜，”他坚持道。 ‘别因为你那些可怜又愚蠢的朋友而抛弃我！有时我会抱怨他们，但我不会‘

‘That they what?’ cried Catherine, gazing at him with a troubled countenance. ‘Oh, Nelly!’ she added petulantly, jerking her head away from my hands, ‘you’ve combed my hair quite out of curl! That’s enough; let me alone. What are you on the point of complaining about, Heathcliff?’
“那是什么？”凯瑟琳喊道，一脸困惑地看着他。 “哦，耐莉！”她把头从我手里扭开，脾气暴躁地补充道，“你把我的头发梳得完全不卷了！”够了；让我一个人静一下。你有什么好抱怨的，希刺克厉夫？

‘Nothing only look at the almanack on that wall;’ he pointed to a framed sheet hanging near the window, and continued, ‘The crosses are for the evenings you have spent with the Lintons, the dots for those spent with me. Do you see? I’ve marked every day.’
“没什么，只要看那墙上的年鉴即可；”他指着窗边挂着的一张带框的床单，继续说道，“十字架代表你与林惇一家共度的夜晚，圆点代表与我共度的夜晚。”你有看到？我每天都做了标记。

‘Yes very foolish: as if I took notice!’ replied Catherine, in a peevish tone. ‘And where is the sense of that?’
“是的，非常愚蠢：好像我注意到了！”凯瑟琳用一种暴躁的语气回答道。 “这有什么意义呢？”

‘To show that I DO take notice,’ said Heathcliff.
“为了表明我确实注意到了，”希斯克利夫说。

‘And should I always be sitting with you?’ she demanded, growing more irritated. ‘What good do I get? What do you talk about? You might be dumb, or a baby, for anything you say to amuse me, or for anything you do, either!’
“我应该一直和你坐在一起吗？”她问道，变得越来越恼怒。 ‘我能得到什么好处？你在说什么？你可能是个傻子，或者是个婴儿，因为你所说的任何让我开心的话，或者你所做的任何事情！

‘You never told me before that I talked too little, or that you disliked my company, Cathy!’ exclaimed Heathcliff, in much agitation.
“你以前从来没有告诉过我，我说话太少，或者你不喜欢我的陪伴，凯茜！”希刺克厉夫非常激动地喊道。

‘It’s no company at all, when people know nothing and say nothing,’ she muttered.
“当人们什么都不知道、什么也不说时，这根本就不是公司，”她嘀咕道。

Her companion rose up, but he hadn’t time to express his feelings further, for a horse’s feet were heard on the flags, and having knocked gently, young Linton entered, his face brilliant with delight at the unexpected summon she had received. Doubtless Catherine marked the difference between her friends, as one came in and the other went out. The contrast resembled what you see in exchanging a bleak, hilly, coal country for a beautiful fertile valley; and his voice and greeting were as opposite as his aspect. He had a sweet, low manner of speaking, and pronounced his words as you do: that’s less gruff than we talk here, and softer.
她的同伴站了起来，但他没有时间进一步表达自己的感受，因为马蹄声踩在旗帜上，轻轻敲了敲门，年轻的林惇走了进来，脸上因她收到的意外召唤而欣喜若狂。毫无疑问，凯瑟琳注意到了她的朋友之间的区别，一个进来，另一个出去。这种对比就像你所看到的，把荒凉、丘陵、煤炭的乡村换成美丽肥沃的山谷；他的声音和问候与他的外表一样相反。他的说话方式甜美而低沉，并且像你一样发音：这比我们在这里说话不那么粗鲁，而且更柔和。

‘I’m not come too soon, am I?’ he said, casting a look at me: I had begun to wipe the plate, and tidy some drawers at the far end in the dresser.
“我来得不算太快吧？”他看了我一眼说道：我已经开始擦盘子，整理梳妆台远端的一些抽屉了。

‘No,’ answered Catherine. ‘What are you doing there, Nelly?’
“不，”凯瑟琳回答。 “你在那儿做什么，耐莉？”

‘My work, Miss,’ I replied. (Mr. Hindley had given me directions to make a third party in any private visits Linton chose to pay.)
“我的工作，小姐，”我回答道。 （辛德利先生指示我在林惇选择支付的任何私人访问中都聘请第三方。）

She stepped behind me and whispered crossly, ‘Take yourself and your dusters off; when company are in the house, servants don’t commence scouring and cleaning in the room where they are!’
她走到我身后，生气地低声说道：“脱掉你的掸子，把你的掸子脱掉。”当有人在家里时，仆人不会开始在他们所在的房间里擦洗和打扫！

‘It’s a good opportunity, now that master is away,’ I answered aloud: ‘he hates me to be fidgeting over these things in his presence. I’m sure Mr. Edgar will excuse me.’
“这是个好机会，现在师父不在，”我大声回答道：“他讨厌我在他面前为这些事情烦躁不安。”我相信埃德加先生会原谅我的。

‘I hate you to be fidgeting in MY presence,’ exclaimed the young lady imperiously, not allowing her guest time to speak: she had failed to recover her equanimity since the little dispute with Heathcliff.
“我讨厌你在我面前坐立不安，”年轻的女士专横地喊道，不给她的客人说话的时间：自从与希刺克厉夫发生小争执以来，她一直无法恢复平静。

‘I’m sorry for it, Miss Catherine,’ was my response; and I proceeded assiduously with my occupation.
“我很抱歉，凯瑟琳小姐。”我的回答是。我孜孜不倦地从事我的工作。

She, supposing Edgar could not see her, snatched the cloth from my hand, and pinched me, with a prolonged wrench, very spitefully on the arm. I’ve said I did not love her, and rather relished mortifying her vanity now and then: besides, she hurt me extremely; so I started up from my knees, and screamed out, ‘Oh, Miss, that’s a nasty trick! You have no right to nip me, and I’m not going to bear it.’
她以为埃德加看不到她，就从我手里夺过布，用一把长扳手狠狠地掐我的手臂。我说过我不爱她，只是时不时地以羞辱她的虚荣心为乐：此外，她对我伤害极大；于是我从膝盖上站起来，尖叫道：‘哦，小姐，这是一个令人讨厌的把戏！你没有权利咬我，我也不会忍受。

‘I didn’t touch you, you lying creature!’ cried she, her fingers tingling to repeat the act, and her ears red with rage. She never had power to conceal her passion, it always set her whole complexion in a blaze.
“我没有碰你，你这个撒谎的生物！”她喊道，她的手指刺痛地重复着这个动作，她的耳朵因愤怒而通红。她从来没有能力掩饰自己的热情，它总是让她的整个肤色都燃烧起来。

‘What’s that, then?’ I retorted, showing a decided purple witness to refute her.
“那是什么？”我反驳道，并展示了一个坚定的紫色证人来反驳她。

She stamped her foot, wavered a moment, and then, irresistibly impelled by the naughty spirit within her, slapped me on the cheek: a stinging blow that filled both eyes with water.
她跺了跺脚，犹豫了一会儿，然后，在内心淘气的驱使下，她不可抗拒地打了我的脸颊一巴掌：这一击让我的双眼都充满了水。

‘Catherine, love! Catherine!’ interposed Linton, greatly shocked at the double fault of falsehood and violence which his idol had committed.
‘凯瑟琳，亲爱的！凯瑟琳！”林惇插话道，他对他的偶像犯下的谎言和暴力的双重错误感到非常震惊。

‘Leave the room, Ellen!’ she repeated, trembling all over.
“离开房间，艾伦！”她重复道，浑身发抖。

Little Hareton, who followed me everywhere, and was sitting near me on the floor, at seeing my tears commenced crying himself, and sobbed out complaints against ‘wicked aunt Cathy,’ which drew her fury on to his unlucky head: she seized his shoulders, and shook him till the poor child waxed livid, and Edgar thoughtlessly laid hold of her hands to deliver him. In an instant one was wrung free, and the astonished young man felt it applied over his own ear in a way that could not be mistaken for jest. He drew back in consternation. I lifted Hareton in my arms, and walked off to the kitchen with him, leaving the door of communication open, for I was curious to watch how they would settle their disagreement. The insulted visitor moved to the spot where he had laid his hat, pale and with a quivering lip.
小哈里顿到处跟着我，坐在我旁边的地板上，看到我的泪水，他自己也开始哭泣，抽泣着抱怨“邪恶的凯茜阿姨”，这把她的愤怒引到了他不幸的头上：她抓住了他的肩膀，摇晃着他，直到那个可怜的孩子脸色变得铁青，埃德加不假思索地抓住了她的手，把他救了出来。瞬间，一个东西被挣脱了，惊讶的年轻人感觉它以一种不会被误认为是玩笑的方式贴在了自己的耳朵上。他惊愕地向后退了一步。我把哈里顿抱在怀里，和他一起走向厨房，保持沟通的大门敞开，因为我很好奇他们会如何解决分歧。受到侮辱的访客走到他放帽子的地方，脸色苍白，嘴唇颤抖。

‘That’s right!’ I said to myself. ‘Take warning and begone! It’s a kindness to let you have a glimpse of her genuine disposition.’
“没错！”我对自己说。 ‘接受警告，走吧！能让你一睹她的真性情，真是太好了。”

‘Where are you going?’ demanded Catherine, advancing to the door.
“你要去哪里？”凯瑟琳走到门口问道。

He swerved aside, and attempted to pass.
他突然转向一边，试图通过。

‘You must not go!’ she exclaimed, energetically.
“你不许走！”她精力充沛地喊道。

‘I must and shall!’ he replied in a subdued voice.
“我必须而且应该！”他用低沉的声音回答道。

‘No,’ she persisted, grasping the handle; ‘not yet, Edgar Linton: sit down; you shall not leave me in that temper. I should be miserable all night, and I won’t be miserable for you!’
“不，”她抓住把手，坚持道。 “还不行，埃德加·林惇：坐下；你不能让我保持这种脾气。我应该痛苦一整晚，我不会为你痛苦！

‘Can I stay after you have struck me?’ asked Linton.
“你打了我之后我可以留下来吗？”林惇问道。

Catherine was mute.
凯瑟琳沉默不语。

‘You’ve made me afraid and ashamed of you,’ he continued; ‘I’ll not come here again!’
“你让我对你感到害怕和羞耻，”他继续说道。 “我不会再来这里了！”

Her eyes began to glisten and her lids to twinkle.
她的眼睛开始闪闪发光，眼睑开始闪烁。

‘And you told a deliberate untruth!’ he said.
“而你却故意撒谎！”他说。

‘I didn’t!’ she cried, recovering her speech; ‘I did nothing deliberately. Well, go, if you please get away! And now I’ll cry I’ll cry myself sick!’
“我没有！”她喊道，恢复了言语。 ‘我没有故意做任何事。好吧，走吧，如果你能走开的话！现在我会哭，我会哭得恶心！”

She dropped down on her knees by a chair, and set to weeping in serious earnest. Edgar persevered in his resolution as far as the court; there he lingered. I resolved to encourage him.
她跪在椅子旁，开始认真地哭泣。埃德加一直坚持他的决定，直至法庭。他在那里逗留了。我决定鼓励他。

‘Miss is dreadfully wayward, sir,’ I called out. ‘As bad as any marred child: you’d better be riding home, or else she will be sick, only to grieve us.’
“先生，小姐太任性了。”我喊道。 “就像任何受伤的孩子一样糟糕：你最好骑车回家，否则她会生病，只会让我们悲伤。”

The soft thing looked askance through the window: he possessed the power to depart as much as a cat possesses the power to leave a mouse half killed, or a bird half eaten. Ah, I thought, there will be no saving him: he’s doomed, and flies to his fate! And so it was: he turned abruptly, hastened into the house again, shut the door behind him; and when I went in a while after to inform them that Earnshaw had come home rabid drunk, ready to pull the whole place about our ears (his ordinary frame of mind in that condition), I saw the quarrel had merely effected a closer intimacy had broken the outworks of youthful timidity, and enabled them to forsake the disguise of friendship, and confess themselves lovers.
那柔软的东西斜视着窗外：他拥有离开的能力，就像猫拥有让老鼠半死或半只鸟吃掉的能力一样。啊，我想，没有人能拯救他了：他已经注定了，并且飞向他的命运！事情就这样发生了：他猛地转身，又冲进屋里，关上了身后的门。过了一会儿，当我进去告诉他们恩萧已经醉醺醺地回到家，准备把整个地方都拉到我们耳边时（他在那种情况下的平常心境），我发现这场争吵只是造成了更亲密的关系打破了年轻时胆怯的表现，使他们摆脱了友谊的伪装，承认了自己是恋人。

Intelligence of Mr. Hindley’s arrival drove Linton speedily to his horse, and Catherine to her chamber. I went to hide little Hareton, and to take the shot out of the master’s fowling-piece, which he was fond of playing with in his insane excitement, to the hazard of the lives of any who provoked, or even attracted his notice too much; and I had hit upon the plan of removing it, that he might do less mischief if he did go the length of firing the gun.
欣德利先生到来的消息驱使林惇迅速奔向马背，凯瑟琳则赶往她的房间。我去把小哈里顿藏起来，并从主人的捕鸟器上取出子弹，他在疯狂的兴奋中喜欢玩弄它，以免任何激怒甚至引起他过多注意的人的生命危险;我想到了把它移走的计划，这样如果他真的开枪的话，可能会少一些恶作剧。

Chapter IX
第九章

HE entered, vociferating oaths dreadful to hear; and caught me in the act of stowing his son sway in the kitchen cupboard. Hareton was impressed with a wholesome terror of encountering either his wild beast’s fondness or his madman’s rage; for in one he ran a chance of being squeezed and kissed to death, and in the other of being flung into the fire, or dashed against the wall; and the poor thing remained perfectly quiet wherever I chose to put him.
他进来了，大声咒骂着可怕的誓言。当我把他儿子藏在厨房橱柜里时，发现了我。哈里顿对遭遇野兽的喜爱或疯子的愤怒感到一种健康的恐惧，这给哈里顿留下了深刻的印象。因为在一种情况下，他有可能被挤压和亲吻致死，在另一种情况下，他有可能被扔进火里，或者撞到墙上。不管我把它放在哪里，这个可怜的东西都保持着完全的安静。

‘There, I’ve found it out at last!’ cried Hindley, pulling me back by the skin of my neck, like a dog. ‘By heaven and hell, you’ve sworn between you to murder that child! I know how it is, now, that he is always out of my way. But, with the help of Satan, I shall make you swallow the carving-knife, Nelly! You needn’t laugh; for I’ve just crammed Kenneth, head-downmost, in the Blackhorse marsh; and two is the same as one and I want to kill some of you: I shall have no rest till I do!’
“我终于找到了！”辛德雷喊道，像一只狗一样，抓住我的脖子把我拉了回来。 “以天堂和地狱起誓，你们发誓要谋杀那个孩子！现在我知道他总是不妨碍我了。但是，在撒旦的帮助下，我会让你吞下切肉刀，耐莉！你不必笑；因为我刚刚把肯尼斯头朝下塞进黑马沼泽里；二和一是一样的，我想杀掉你们中的一些人：除非我这么做，否则我不会休息！

‘But I don’t like the carving-knife, Mr. Hindley,’ I answered; ‘it has been cutting red herrings. I’d rather be shot, if you please.’
“但是我不喜欢切肉刀，欣德利先生，”我回答道。 ‘它一直在转移注意力。如果你愿意的话，我宁愿被枪杀。

‘You’d rather be damned!’ he said; ‘and so you shall. No law in England can hinder a man from keeping his house decent, and mine’s abominable! Open your mouth.’ He held the knife in his hand, and pushed its point between my teeth: but, for my part, I was never much afraid of his vagaries. I spat out, and affirmed it tasted detestably I would not take it on any account.
“你宁愿被诅咒！”他说。 ‘你也应该这么做。英国没有任何法律可以阻止一个人保持他的房子的体面，而我的房子就很糟糕！张开嘴。”他手里拿着刀，把刀尖塞进我的牙齿之间：但是，就我而言，我从来没有太害怕他的变幻无常。我吐了出来，并确认它的味道很难闻，我不会接受它。

‘Oh!’ said he, releasing me, ‘I see that hideous little villain is not Hareton: I beg your pardon, Nell. If it be, he deserves flaying alive for not running to welcome me, and for screaming as if I were a goblin. Unnatural cub, come hither! I’ll teach thee to impose on a good-hearted, deluded father. Now, don’t you think the lad would be handsomer cropped? It makes a dog fiercer, and I love something fierce get me a scissors something fierce and trim! Besides, it’s infernal affectation devilish conceit it is, to cherish our ears we’re asses enough without them. Hush, child, hush! Well then, it is my darling! wisht, dry thy eyes there’s a joy; kiss me. What! it won’t? Kiss me, Hareton! Damn thee, kiss me! By God, as if I would rear such a monster! As sure as I’m living, I’ll break the brat’s neck.’
“哦！”他一边说，一边放开我，“我看出那个可​​怕的小恶棍不是哈里顿：请原谅，内尔。如果是这样，他应该被活活剥皮，因为他没有跑去欢迎我，而且还像妖精一样尖叫。不自然的崽子，过来！我会教你如何欺负一个心地善良却被欺骗的父亲。现在，你不觉得这小伙子剪成短发会更帅吗？它让狗变得更凶猛，我喜欢凶猛的东西，给我一把剪刀，凶猛而修剪的东西！此外，这是一种邪恶的矫揉造作、邪恶的自负，要珍惜我们的耳朵，没有它们我们就够蠢了。安静，孩子，安静！那么，这就是我的宝贝了！希望，擦干你的眼睛，那里有一种快乐；吻我。什么！不会吗？吻我吧，哈里顿！该死的，你吻我吧！天哪，我竟然养出了这么一个怪物！我敢肯定，我会扭断这小子的脖子。

Poor Hareton was squalling and kicking in his father’s arms with all his might, and redoubled his yells when he carried him upstairs and lifted him over the banister. I cried out that he would frighten the child into fits, and ran to rescue him. As I reached them, Hindley leant forward on the rails to listen to a noise below; almost forgetting what he had in his hands. ‘Who is that?’ he asked, hearing some one approaching the stairs’-foot. I leant forward also, for the purpose of signing to Heathcliff, whose step I recognised, not to come further; and, at the instant when my eye quitted Hareton, he gave a sudden spring, delivered himself from the careless grasp that held him, and fell.
可怜的哈里顿在他父亲的怀里拼尽全力又叫又踢，当他把他抱上楼并把他抬到栏杆上时，他的叫喊声加倍。我大喊，他会把孩子吓坏了，赶紧跑去救他。当我到达他们身边时，欣德利在栏杆上向前倾身，听听下面的声音。几乎忘记了自己手里拿的是什么。 “那是谁？”他听到有人走近楼梯，问道。我也向前倾身，向希刺克厉夫示意，我认出了他的脚步，不再走得更远。就在我的目光离开哈里顿的那一刻，他猛然一跳，从粗心的抓握中挣脱出来，然后摔倒了。

There was scarcely time to experience a thrill of horror before we saw that the little wretch was safe. Heathcliff arrived underneath just at the critical moment; by a natural impulse he arrested his descent, and setting him on his feet, looked up to discover the author of the accident. A miser who has parted with a lucky lottery ticket for five shillings, and finds next day he has lost in the bargain five thousand pounds, could not show a blanker countenance than he did on beholding the figure of Mr. Earnshaw above. It expressed, plainer than words could do, the intensest anguish at having made himself the instrument of thwarting his own revenge. Had it been dark, I daresay he would have tried to remedy the mistake by smashing Hareton’s skull on the steps; but, we witnessed his salvation; and I was presently below with my precious charge pressed to my heart. Hindley descended more leisurely, sobered and abashed.
还没来得及体验恐怖的快感，我们就看到这个小可怜安全了。希刺克厉夫在关键时刻赶到了下面。出于一种自然的冲动，他停止了下降，并让他站起来，抬头寻找事故的始作俑者。一个守财奴以五先令的价格买了一张幸运彩票，第二天发现他在讨价还价中损失了五千英镑，当他看到上面的恩肖先生的身影时，他的表情是最茫然的。它表达了比言语更清楚的表达，他因自己成为挫败自己复仇的工具而感到最强烈的痛苦。如果天黑了，我敢说他会试图通过在台阶上砸碎哈里顿的头骨来弥补这个错误；但他的行为却是错误的。但是，我们见证了他的救赎；我现在就在下面，我的心上紧握着我宝贵的职责。辛德雷下楼时更加从容、清醒和羞愧。

‘It is your fault, Ellen,’ he said; ‘you should have kept him out of sight: you should have taken him from me! Is he injured anywhere?’
“这是你的错，艾伦，”他说。 ‘你应该让他远离我的视线：你应该把他从我身边带走！他有什么地方受伤吗？

‘Injured!’ I cried angrily; ‘if he is not killed, he’ll be an idiot! Oh! I wonder his mother does not rise from her grave to see how you use him. You’re worse than a heathen treating your own flesh and blood in that manner!’ He attempted to touch the child, who, on finding himself with me, sobbed off his terror directly. At the first finger his father laid on him, however, he shrieked again louder than before, and struggled as if he would go into convulsions.
“受伤了！”我愤怒地喊道。 ‘如果不杀掉他，他就是个白痴！哦！我想知道他的母亲不会从坟墓里起来看看你如何利用他。你比异教徒还用这种方式对待自己的亲生骨肉！”他试图触碰孩子，孩子发现自己和我在一起，直接抽泣着摆脱了恐惧。然而，当父亲的第一个手指放在他身上时，他再次尖叫起来，声音比以前更大，并且挣扎着，好像要抽搐一样。

‘You shall not meddle with him!’ I continued. ‘He hates you they all hate you that’s the truth! A happy family you have; and a pretty state you’re come to!’
“你不许干涉他！”我继续说道。 ‘他恨你，他们都恨你，这是事实！你有一个幸福的家庭；你现在的状态真好！”

‘I shall come to a prettier, yet, Nelly,’ laughed the misguided man, recovering his hardness. ‘At present, convey yourself and him away. And hark you, Heathcliff! clear you too quite from my reach and hearing. I wouldn’t murder you to-night; unless, perhaps, I set the house on fire: but that’s as my fancy goes.’
“不过，我会变得更漂亮，耐莉。”被误导的男人笑道，恢复了他的冷酷。 ‘现在，将你和他送走。听着，希刺克厉夫！把你也从我的接触范围和听力范围中清除掉。今晚我不会杀了你；除非，也许我放火烧了房子：但那是我的幻想。

While saying this he took a pint bottle of brandy from the dresser, and poured some into a tumbler.
说着，他从梳妆台上拿出一品脱瓶白兰地，倒入玻璃杯中。

‘Nay, don’t!’ I entreated. ‘Mr. Hindley, do take warning. Have mercy on this unfortunate boy, if you care nothing for yourself!’
“不，不要！”我恳求道。 '先生。欣德利，请注意。如果你不关心自己的话，就怜悯这个不幸的男孩吧！

‘Any one will do better for him than I shall,’ he answered.
“任何人都会比我为他做得更好，”他回答道。

‘Have mercy on your own soul!’ I said, endeavouring to snatch the glass from his hand.
“怜悯你自己的灵魂吧！”我一边说，一边努力从他手中夺过杯子。

‘Not I! On the contrary, I shall have great pleasure in sending it to perdition to punish its Maker,’ exclaimed the blasphemer. ‘Here’s to its hearty damnation!’
‘不是我！相反，我会非常乐意将它送入地狱，以惩罚它的创造者。”亵渎者大声说道。 “这是对它衷心的诅咒！”

He drank the spirits and impatiently bade us go; terminating his command with a sequel of horrid imprecations too bad to repeat or remember.
他喝了烈酒，不耐烦地叫我们走。他用一系列可怕的咒语结束了他的命令，这些咒语太糟糕了，无法重复或记住。

‘It’s a pity he cannot kill himself with drink,’ observed Heathcliff, muttering an echo of curses back when the door was shut. ‘He’s doing his very utmost; but his constitution defies him. Mr. Kenneth says he would wager his mare that he’ll outlive any man on this side Gimmerton, and go to the grave a hoary sinner; unless some happy chance out of the common course befall him.’
“可惜他不能喝酒自杀。”希刺克厉夫说道，门关上后，他低声咒骂了一声。 “他正在竭尽全力；但他的宪法违背了他的要求。肯尼思先生说，他会用他的母马打赌，他会比吉默顿这边的任何人都活得更久，并以白发苍苍的罪人身份进入坟墓。除非他遇到了一些不寻常的好机会。”

I went into the kitchen, and sat down to lull my little lamb to sleep. Heathcliff, as I thought, walked through to the barn. It turned out afterwards that he only got as far as the other side the settle, when he flung himself on a bench by the wall, removed from the fire and remained silent.
我走进厨房，坐下来哄我的小羊羔睡觉。正如我所想，希刺克厉夫走进了谷仓。后来发现，他只走到长椅的另一边，就倒在了墙边的长凳上，离开了火堆，一言不发。

I was rocking Hareton on my knee, and humming a song that began, -
我摇着哈里顿的膝盖，哼着一首歌，开头是——

It was far in the night, and the bairnies grat, The mither beneath the mools heard that,
夜已深了，小树林发出刺耳的声音，沼泽下的密瑟听到了，

when Miss Cathy, who had listened to the hubbub from her room, put her head in, and whispered, ‘Are you alone, Nelly?’
当凯茜小姐听到房间里的喧闹声时，她把头伸进去，低声问道：“耐莉，你一个人吗？”

‘Yes, Miss,’ I replied.
“是的，小姐，”我回答道。

She entered and approached the hearth. I, supposing she was going to say something, looked up. The expression of her face seemed disturbed and anxious. Her lips were half asunder, as if she meant to speak, and she drew a breath; but it escaped in a sigh instead of a sentence. I resumed my song; not having forgotten her recent behaviour.
她走进去，走近壁炉。我以为她要说什么，就抬起头来。她脸上的表情显得不安和焦虑。她的嘴唇半张着，似乎要说话，然后她吸了一口气。但它不是一句话，而是一声叹息。我继续唱歌；没有忘记她最近的行为。

‘Where’s Heathcliff?’ she said, interrupting me.
“希刺克厉夫在哪儿？”她打断了我的话。

‘About his work in the stable,’ was my answer.
“关于他在马厩里的工作。”我回答道。

He did not contradict me; perhaps he had fallen into a doze. There followed another long pause, during which I perceived a drop or two trickle from Catherine’s cheek to the flags. Is she sorry for her shameful conduct? I asked myself. That will be a novelty: but she may come to the point as she will I sha’n’t help her! No, she felt small trouble regarding any subject, save her own concerns.
他并没有反驳我；也许他已经打瞌睡了。接下来又是一次长时间的停顿，在此期间，我察觉到一两滴水从凯瑟琳的脸颊流到了旗帜上。她是否为自己的可耻行为感到后悔？我问自己。这将是一件新鲜事：但她可能会说到点子上，我不会帮助她！不，除了她自己的担忧之外，她对任何事情都感到小麻烦。

‘Oh, dear!’ she cried at last. ‘I’m very unhappy!’
“哦，天哪！”她最后哭了起来。 “我很不高兴！”

‘A pity,’ observed I. ‘You’re hard to please; so many friends and so few cares, and can’t make yourself content!’
“可惜，”我说，“你很难取悦；你很难取悦。”朋友那么多，关心那么少，你无法让自己满足！

‘Nelly, will you keep a secret for me?’ she pursued, kneeling down by me, and lifting her winsome eyes to my face with that sort of look which turns off bad temper, even when one has all the right in the world to indulge it.
“耐莉，你能帮我保守一个秘密吗？”她问道，在我身边跪下来，抬起她那双迷人的眼睛看着我的脸，那种表情可以消除坏脾气，即使一个人有权在这个世界上发脾气。纵容它。

‘Is it worth keeping?’ I inquired, less sulkily.
“它值得保留吗？”我问道，语气没那么闷闷不乐了。

‘Yes, and it worries me, and I must let it out! I want to know what I should do. To-day, Edgar Linton has asked me to marry him, and I’ve given him an answer. Now, before I tell you whether it was a consent or denial, you tell me which it ought to have been.’
‘是的，这让我很担心，我必须把它发泄出来！我想知道我应该做什么。今天，埃德加·林惇向我求婚，我已经给了他答案。现在，在我告诉你这是同意还是拒绝之前，你先告诉我应该是哪一个。

‘Really, Miss Catherine, how can I know?’ I replied. ‘To be sure, considering the exhibition you performed in his presence this afternoon, I might say it would be wise to refuse him: since he asked you after that, he must either be hopelessly stupid or a venturesome fool.’
“真的，凯瑟琳小姐，我怎么知道？”我回答道。 “当然，考虑到今天下午你在他面前进行的表演，我可能会说拒绝他是明智的：既然他后来问了你，他要么是一个无可救药的愚蠢者，要么是一个冒险的傻瓜。”

‘If you talk so, I won’t tell you any more,’ she returned, peevishly rising to her feet. ‘I accepted him, Nelly. Be quick, and say whether I was wrong!’
“如果你这么说，我就不会再告诉你了，”她回答道，生气地站了起来。 “我接受了他，耐莉。快点说我是否错了！”

‘You accepted him! Then what good is it discussing the matter? You have pledged your word, and cannot retract.’
‘你接受了他！那么讨论这个问题有什么好处呢？你已经发誓了，不能反悔。”

‘But say whether I should have done so do!’ she exclaimed in an irritated tone; chafing her hands together, and frowning.
“但是你说我是否应该这样做！”她用恼怒的语气喊道。她双手摩擦，皱起眉头。

‘There are many things to be considered before that question can be answered properly,’ I said, sententiously. ‘First and foremost, do you love Mr. Edgar?’
“在正确回答这个问题之前，有很多事情需要考虑，”我简洁地说。 “首先，你爱埃德加先生吗？”

‘Who can help it? Of course I do,’ she answered.
‘谁能帮忙呢？我当然知道，”她回答道。

Then I put her through the following catechism: for a girl of twenty-two it was not injudicious.
然后我让她听了下面的教义问答：对于一个二十二岁的女孩来说，这并不是不明智的。

‘Why do you love him, Miss Cathy?’
“你为什么爱他，凯茜小姐？”

‘Nonsense, I do that’s sufficient.’
“废话，我这样做就够了。”

‘By no means; you must say why?’
“绝不是这样；你必须说出为什么？

‘Well, because he is handsome, and pleasant to be with.’
“嗯，因为他很英俊，而且相处起来很愉快。”

‘Bad!’ was my commentary.
“糟糕！”是我的评论。

‘And because he is young and cheerful.’
“因为他年轻、开朗。”

‘Bad, still.’
“还是很糟糕。”

‘And because he loves me.’
“因为他爱我。”

‘Indifferent, coming there.’
“无所谓，过来。”

‘And he will be rich, and I shall like to be the greatest woman of the neighbourhood, and I shall be proud of having such a husband.’
“他会很富有，我会成为附近最伟大的女人，我会为拥有这样的丈夫而感到自豪。”

‘Worst of all. And now, say how you love him?’
‘最糟糕的是。现在，说说你有多爱他？

‘As everybody loves You’re silly, Nelly.’
“正如每个人都喜欢的那样，你很傻，耐莉。”

‘Not at all Answer.’
“根本不回答。”

‘I love the ground under his feet, and the air over his head, and everything he touches, and every word he says. I love all his looks, and all his actions, and him entirely and altogether. There now!’
“我爱他脚下的土地，爱他头顶的空气，爱他接触到的一切，爱他说的每一句话。我爱他所有的外表，他所有的行为，以及他的全部。就是现在！'

‘And why?’
“那为什么呢？”

‘Nay; you are making a jest of it: it is exceedingly ill-natured! It’s no jest to me!’ said the young lady, scowling, and turning her face to the fire.
‘不；你这是在开玩笑：这真是太恶毒了！这不是对我开玩笑！”年轻女士皱起眉头，把脸转向火。

‘I’m very far from jesting, Miss Catherine,’ I replied. ‘You love Mr. Edgar because he is handsome, and young, and cheerful, and rich, and loves you. The last, however, goes for nothing: you would love him without that, probably; and with it you wouldn’t, unless he possessed the four former attractions.’
“我绝对不是在开玩笑，凯瑟琳小姐，”我回答道。 “你爱埃德加先生，因为他英俊、年轻、开朗、富有，而且爱你。然而，最后一个毫无意义：没有那个你可能会爱他；除非他拥有前面的四种吸引力，否则你就不会拥有它。

‘No, to be sure not: I should only pity him hate him, perhaps, if he were ugly, and a clown.’
“不，当然不是：如果他长得很丑，还是个小丑，我也许只会怜悯他，恨他。”

‘But there are several other handsome, rich young men in the world: handsomer, possibly, and richer than he is. What should hinder you from loving them?’
“但是世界上还有其他几个英俊、富有的年轻人：可能比他更英俊、更富有。”什么会阻碍你爱他们？

‘If there be any, they are out of my way: I’ve seen none like Edgar.’
“如果有的话，他们也不挡我的路：我没见过像埃德加这样的人。”

‘You may see some; and he won’t always be handsome, and young, and may not always be rich.’
‘你可能会看到一些；他不会永远英俊、年轻，也可能不会永远富有。”

‘He is now; and I have only to do with the present. I wish you would speak rationally.’
‘他现在是；我只关心现在。我希望你能理性地说话。”

‘Well, that settles it: if you have only to do with the present, marry Mr. Linton.’
“好吧，事情就这样解决了：如果你只关心现在，就嫁给林惇先生吧。”

‘I don’t want your permission for that I SHALL marry him: and yet you have not told me whether I’m right.’
“我不需要你的同意，我要嫁给他：但你还没有告诉我我是否正确。”

‘Perfectly right; if people be right to marry only for the present. And now, let us hear what you are unhappy about. Your brother will be pleased; the old lady and gentleman will not object, I think; you will escape from a disorderly, comfortless home into a wealthy, respectable one; and you love Edgar, and Edgar loves you. All seems smooth and easy: where is the obstacle?’
'完全正确；如果人们只为了当下而结婚是正确的。现在，让我们听听您有什么不满意的地方。你的兄弟会很高兴的；我想，老太太和先生不会反对的。你会逃离一个混乱、不舒适的家庭，进入一个富裕、受人尊敬的家庭；你爱埃德加，埃德加也爱你。一切看起来都很顺利和容易：障碍在哪里？

‘HERE! and HERE!’ replied Catherine, striking one hand on her forehead, and the other on her breast: ‘in whichever place the soul lives. In my soul and in my heart, I’m convinced I’m wrong!’
'这里！就在这里！”凯瑟琳回答道，一只手拍在额头上，另一只手拍在胸前：“无论灵魂住在哪里。在我的灵魂和内心深处，我确信我错了！

‘That’s very strange! I cannot make it out.’
‘这很奇怪！我听不懂。

‘It’s my secret. But if you will not mock at me, I’ll explain it: I can’t do it distinctly; but I’ll give you a feeling of how I feel.’
‘这是我的秘密。但如果你不嘲笑我，我会解释一下：我不能清楚地做到这一点；但我会让你感受一下我的感受。

She seated herself by me again: her countenance grew sadder and graver, and her clasped hands trembled.
她又坐到我身边，脸色变得更加悲伤和严肃，紧握的双手在颤抖。

‘Nelly, do you never dream queer dreams?’ she said, suddenly, after some minutes’ reflection.
“耐莉，你从来没有做过奇怪的梦吗？”经过几分钟的沉思，她突然说道。

‘Yes, now and then,’ I answered.
“是的，偶尔，”我回答道。

‘And so do I. I’ve dreamt in my life dreams that have stayed with me ever after, and changed my ideas: they’ve gone through and through me, like wine through water, and altered the colour of my mind. And this is one: I’m going to tell it but take care not to smile at any part of it.’
“我也是。我一生中都有梦想，这些梦想一直伴随着我，改变了我的想法：它们一遍又一遍地穿过我，就像酒穿过水一样，改变了我心灵的颜色。这就是：我要讲述它，但注意不要对它的任何部分微笑。

‘Oh! don’t, Miss Catherine!’ I cried. ‘We’re dismal enough without conjuring up ghosts and visions to perplex us. Come, come, be merry and like yourself! Look at little Hareton! HE’S dreaming nothing dreary. How sweetly he smiles in his sleep!’
'哦！不要，凯瑟琳小姐！”我喊道。 “我们已经够阴郁的了，不用召唤鬼魂和幻象来迷惑我们。来吧，来吧，快乐起来，像你自己一样！看看小哈里顿！他没有做任何沉闷的梦。他在睡梦中笑得多么甜蜜啊！”

‘Yes; and how sweetly his father curses in his solitude! You remember him, I daresay, when he was just such another as that chubby thing: nearly as young and innocent. However, Nelly, I shall oblige you to listen: it’s not long; and I’ve no power to be merry to-night.’
'是的;他的父亲在孤独中咒骂得多么甜蜜！我敢说，你还记得他，那时他还和那个胖乎乎的东西一样：几乎同样年轻、天真。不过，耐莉，我必须请你听着：时间不长；今晚我没有力气快乐。

‘I won’t hear it, I won’t hear it!’ I repeated, hastily.
“我不听，我不听！”我连忙重复道。

I was superstitious about dreams then, and am still; and Catherine had an unusual gloom in her aspect, that made me dread something from which I might shape a prophecy, and foresee a fearful catastrophe. She was vexed, but she did not proceed. Apparently taking up another subject, she recommenced in a short time.
那时我迷信梦，现在仍然如此；凯瑟琳脸上有一种不同寻常的忧郁，这让我害怕我可能会做出预言，预见一场可怕的灾难。她很恼火，但没有继续。显然她正在学习另一个科目，很快她又重新开始了。

‘If I were in heaven, Nelly, I should be extremely miserable.’
“如果我在天堂，耐莉，我会非常痛苦。”

‘Because you are not fit to go there,’ I answered. ‘All sinners would be miserable in heaven.’
“因为你不适合去那里。”我回答道。 “所有罪人在天堂都会过得很痛苦。”

‘But it is not for that. I dreamt once that I was there.’
‘但不是为了这个。我有一次梦见我在那里。

‘I tell you I won’t hearken to your dreams, Miss Catherine! I’ll go to bed,’ I interrupted again.
“我告诉你，我不会听你的梦想，凯瑟琳小姐！我去睡觉了。”我再次打断道。

She laughed, and held me down; for I made a motion to leave my chair.
她笑了，把我按在地上；因为我提出了离开椅子的动议。

‘This is nothing,’ cried she: ‘I was only going to say that heaven did not seem to be my home; and I broke my heart with weeping to come back to earth; and the angels were so angry that they flung me out into the middle of the heath on the top of Wuthering Heights; where I woke sobbing for joy. That will do to explain my secret, as well as the other. I’ve no more business to marry Edgar Linton than I have to be in heaven; and if the wicked man in there had not brought Heathcliff so low, I shouldn’t have thought of it. It would degrade me to marry Heathcliff now; so he shall never know how I love him: and that, not because he’s handsome, Nelly, but because he’s more myself than I am. Whatever our souls are made of, his and mine are the same; and Linton’s is as different as a moonbeam from lightning, or frost from fire.’
“这没什么，”她喊道，“我只是想说，天堂似乎不是我的家；我哭着回到地上，心碎了；天使们非常生气，把我扔到了呼啸山庄山顶的荒野中央。我在那里高兴地抽泣着醒来。这足以解释我的秘密以及其他秘密。我不需要嫁给埃德加·林顿，就像我不需要去天堂一样。如果那里的恶人没有把希刺克厉夫弄得这么卑鄙，我就不会想到这一点。现在嫁给希刺克厉夫会降低我的身份。所以他永远不会知道我有多爱他：耐莉，这不是因为他英俊，而是因为他比我更像我自己。无论我们的灵魂是由什么构成的，他的灵魂和我的灵魂都是一样的；林惇的说法就像月光与闪电、霜与火的不同一样。

Ere this speech ended I became sensible of Heathcliff’s presence. Having noticed a slight movement, I turned my head, and saw him rise from the bench, and steal out noiselessly. He had listened till he heard Catherine say it would degrade her to marry him, and then he stayed to hear no further. My companion, sitting on the ground, was prevented by the back of the settle from remarking his presence or departure; but I started, and bade her hush!
演讲结束前，我意识到希刺克厉夫的存在。察觉到一丝动静，我扭头一看，只见他从长凳上站起来，悄无声息地溜了出去。他一直听着，直到听到凯瑟琳说嫁给他会让她有辱人格，然后他就留下来不再听了。我的同伴坐在地上，高背椅的靠背阻止了他的到来或离开。但我开始了，并请她安静！

‘Why?’ she asked, gazing nervously round.
“为什么？”她紧张地环顾四周问道。

‘Joseph is here,’ I answered, catching opportunely the roll of his cartwheels up the road; ‘and Heathcliff will come in with him. I’m not sure whether he were not at the door this moment.’
“约瑟夫在这里，”我回答道，同时捕捉到他在路上翻滚的声音。 ‘希斯克利夫会和他一起进来。我不确定他此刻是否不在门口。

‘Oh, he couldn’t overhear me at the door!’ said she. ‘Give me Hareton, while you get the supper, and when it is ready ask me to sup with you. I want to cheat my uncomfortable conscience, and be convinced that Heathcliff has no notion of these things. He has not, has he? He does not know what being in love is!’
“哦，他在门口听不到我的声音！”她说。 “把哈里顿交给我，你去准备晚饭，等晚饭做好了，请我和​​你一起吃晚饭。”我想欺骗我不安的良心，相信希刺克厉夫对这些事情一无所知。他没有，不是吗？他不知道什么是恋爱！

‘I see no reason that he should not know, as well as you,’ I returned; ‘and if you are his choice, he’ll be the most unfortunate creature that ever was born! As soon as you become Mrs. Linton, he loses friend, and love, and all! Have you considered how you’ll bear the separation, and how he’ll bear to be quite deserted in the world? Because, Miss Catherine ‘
“我认为他没有理由不知道，你也一样，”我回答道。 ‘如果你是他的选择，他将是有史以来最不幸的生物！一旦你成为林惇夫人，他就失去了朋友，失去了爱，以及一切！你有没有想过，你要如何承受分离，他如何承受这个世界的冷落？因为，凯瑟琳小姐‘

‘He quite deserted! we separated!’ she exclaimed, with an accent of indignation. ‘Who is to separate us, pray? They’ll meet the fate of Milo! Not as long as I live, Ellen: for no mortal creature. Every Linton on the face of the earth might melt into nothing before I could consent to forsake Heathcliff. Oh, that’s not what I intend that’s not what I mean! I shouldn’t be Mrs. Linton were such a price demanded! He’ll be as much to me as he has been all his lifetime. Edgar must shake off his antipathy, and tolerate him, at least. He will, when he learns my true feelings towards him. Nelly, I see now you think me a selfish wretch; but did it never strike you that if Heathcliff and I married, we should be beggars? whereas, if I marry Linton I can aid Heathcliff to rise, and place him out of my brother’s power.’
‘他简直是抛弃了！我们分手了！”她带着愤慨的语气喊道。 ‘请问谁来把我们分开？他们将会遇到米洛的命运！只要我还活着，艾伦：对任何凡人来说都不会。在我同意放弃希刺克厉夫之前，地球上的每一个林顿都可能化为乌有。哦，那不是我的意思，这不是我的意思！如果要付出这样的代价，我就不应该成为林惇夫人！他对我的影响将一如既往。埃德加必须摆脱他的反感，至少要容忍他。当他了解我对他的真实感情时，他会的。耐莉，我现在明白你认为我是一个自私的坏蛋；但你有没有想过，如果希刺克厉夫和我结婚了，我们就会成为乞丐？然而，如果我嫁给林惇，我就可以帮助希刺克厉夫崛起，让他摆脱我哥哥的控制。

‘With your husband’s money, Miss Catherine?’ I asked. ‘You’ll find him not so pliable as you calculate upon: and, though I’m hardly a judge, I think that’s the worst motive you’ve given yet for being the wife of young Linton.’
“凯瑟琳小姐，用你丈夫的钱？”我问。 “你会发现他并不像你想象的那么柔顺：而且，虽然我算不上法官，但我认为这是你作为年轻林惇的妻子所给出的最糟糕的动机。”

‘It is not,’ retorted she; ‘it is the best! The others were the satisfaction of my whims: and for Edgar’s sake, too, to satisfy him. This is for the sake of one who comprehends in his person my feelings to Edgar and myself. I cannot express it; but surely you and everybody have a notion that there is or should be an existence of yours beyond you. What were the use of my creation, if I were entirely contained here? My great miseries in this world have been Heathcliff’s miseries, and I watched and felt each from the beginning: my great thought in living is himself. If all else perished, and HE remained, I should still continue to be; and if all else remained, and he were annihilated, the universe would turn to a mighty stranger: I should not seem a part of it. My love for Linton is like the foliage in the woods: time will change it, I’m well aware, as winter changes the trees. My love for Heathcliff resembles the eternal rocks beneath: a source of little visible delight, but necessary. Nelly, I AM Heathcliff! He’s always, always in my mind: not as a pleasure, any more than I am always a pleasure to myself, but as my own being. So don’t talk of our separation again: it is impracticable; and ‘
“不是的，”她反驳道。 '这是最好的！其他的都是为了满足我的突发奇想：也是为了埃德加，为了满足他。这是为了一个能够理解我对埃德加和我自己的感情的人。我无法表达；但你和每个人肯定都有一个观念，即存在或应该存在超越你的存在。如果我完全被困在这里，我的创造物有什么用？我在这个世界上最大的痛苦就是希刺克厉夫的痛苦，我从一开始就观察并感受着每一个痛苦：我生活中最伟大的思想就是他自己。如果其他一切都消失了，而他仍然存在，我也应该继续存在；如果其他一切都留下来，而他也被消灭了，宇宙就会变成一个巨大的陌生人：我不应该看起来是它的一部分。我对林顿的爱就像树林里的树叶：时间会改变它，我很清楚，就像冬天改变树木一样。我对希斯克利夫的爱就像下面永恒的岩石：一种看不见的快乐的源泉，但却是必要的。耐莉，我是希斯克利夫！他永远永远在我的脑海里：不是作为一种快乐，就像我总是对自己感到快乐一样，而是作为我自己的存在。所以，不要再谈论我们的分离：这是不切实际的；这是不可能的。和 '

She paused, and hid her face in the folds of my gown; but I jerked it forcibly away. I was out of patience with her folly!
她停了下来，把脸埋进我礼服的褶皱里。但我用力把它拉开。我对她的愚蠢行为失去了耐心！

‘If I can make any sense of your nonsense, Miss,’ I said, ‘it only goes to convince me that you are ignorant of the duties you undertake in marrying; or else that you are a wicked, unprincipled girl. But trouble me with no more secrets: I’ll not promise to keep them.’
“如果我能理解你的胡言乱语，小姐，”我说，“那只会让我相信你对结婚时所承担的义务一无所知；”不然就说明你是一个邪恶、没有原则的女孩。但请别再告诉我秘密了：我不会保证保守它们。”

‘You’ll keep that?’ she asked, eagerly.
“你会保留它吗？”她急切地问道。

‘No, I’ll not promise,’ I repeated.
“不，我不会答应，”我重复道。

She was about to insist, when the entrance of Joseph finished our conversation; and Catherine removed her seat to a corner, and nursed Hareton, while I made the supper. After it was cooked, my fellow-servant and I began to quarrel who should carry some to Mr. Hindley; and we didn’t settle it till all was nearly cold. Then we came to the agreement that we would let him ask, if he wanted any; for we feared particularly to go into his presence when he had been some time alone.
她正要坚持，约瑟夫的进来结束了我们的谈话。凯瑟琳把座位移到角落，照顾哈里顿，而我则准备晚饭。煮好后，我和我的仆人开始争吵，谁应该给欣德利先生端一些；直到一切都快冷了我们才解决这个问题。然后我们达成一致，如果他想要的话，我们就让他提出来；因为当他独处一段时间后，我们尤其害怕走进他的面前。

‘And how isn’t that nowt comed in fro’ th’ field, be this time? What is he about? girt idle seeght!’ demanded the old man, looking round for Heathcliff.
“这次怎么不是从田野里传来的呢？”他到底是什么来头？ “别闲着！”老人一边问道，一边环顾四周寻找希刺克厉夫。

‘I’ll call him,’ I replied. ‘He’s in the barn, I’ve no doubt.’
“我会打电话给他，”我回答道。 “我毫不怀疑他在谷仓里。”

I went and called, but got no answer. On returning, I whispered to Catherine that he had heard a good part of what she said, I was sure; and told how I saw him quit the kitchen just as she complained of her brother’s conduct regarding him. She jumped up in a fine fright, flung Hareton on to the settle, and ran to seek for her friend herself; not taking leisure to consider why she was so flurried, or how her talk would have affected him. She was absent such a while that Joseph proposed we should wait no longer. He cunningly conjectured they were staying away in order to avoid hearing his protracted blessing. They were ‘ill eneugh for ony fahl manners,’ he affirmed. And on their behalf he added that night a special prayer to the usual quarter-of-an-hour’s supplication before meat, and would have tacked another to the end of the grace, had not his young mistress broken in upon him with a hurried command that he must run down the road, and, wherever Heathcliff had rambled, find and make him re-enter directly!
我去打电话，但没有得到答复。回来后，我低声对凯瑟琳说，我确信他已经听到了她所说的大部分内容。并讲述了当她抱怨她哥哥对他的行为时我如何看到他离开厨房。她吓得跳了起来，把哈里顿扔到长椅上，自己跑去寻找她的朋友。没有闲暇去考虑她为什么如此慌乱，或者她的谈话会对他产生什么影响。她缺席了这么久，约瑟夫建议我们不要再等了。他狡猾地推测他们离开是为了避免听到他旷日持久的祝福。他断言，他们“连一点基本的礼仪都没有了”。那天晚上，他在饭前通常一刻钟的祈祷之外，还代表他们添加了一次特别的祈祷，如果不是他年轻的情妇突然闯入，对他发出了匆忙的命令，他就会在恩典的末尾加上另一个祈祷。他必须沿着路跑，无论希刺克厉夫走到哪里，找到他并让他直接重新进入！

‘I want to speak to him, and I MUST, before I go upstairs,’ she said. ‘And the gate is open: he is somewhere out of hearing; for he would not reply, though I shouted at the top of the fold as loud as I could.’
“我想和他说话，而且我必须在上楼之前说话，”她说。 ‘门是开着的：他在听不到的地方；因为他不会回应，尽管我在人群的顶部尽可能大声地喊叫。

Joseph objected at first; she was too much in earnest, however, to suffer contradiction; and at last he placed his hat on his head, and walked grumbling forth. Meantime, Catherine paced up and down the floor, exclaiming ‘I wonder where he is I wonder where he can be! What did I say, Nelly? I’ve forgotten. Was he vexed at my bad humour this afternoon? Dear! tell me what I’ve said to grieve him? I do wish he’d come. I do wish he would!’
约瑟夫一开始表示反对。然而，她太认真了，不愿意忍受矛盾。最后他把帽子戴在头上，咕哝着向前走去。与此同时，凯瑟琳在地板上来回踱步，惊呼道：“我想知道他在哪里，我想知道他会在哪里！”我说什么了，耐莉？我忘了。他今天下午是不是因为我的坏脾气而生气了？亲爱的！告诉我我说了什么让他伤心的话？我真希望他能来。我真希望他会！

‘What a noise for nothing!’ I cried, though rather uneasy myself. ‘What a trifle scares you! It’s surely no great cause of alarm that Heathcliff should take a moonlight saunter on the moors, or even lie too sulky to speak to us in the hay-loft. I’ll engage he’s lurking there. See if I don’t ferret him out!’
“真是无意义的噪音！”我喊道，尽管我自己也很不安。 ‘多么一点小事就让你害怕啊！希刺克厉夫在月光下在荒原上漫步，或者甚至闷闷不乐地躺在干草棚里不跟我们说话，这当然没什么大不了的。我会发现他潜伏在那里。看我不把他揪出来！

I departed to renew my search; its result was disappointment, and Joseph’s quest ended in the same.
我离开去重新寻找；结果是失望，约瑟夫的追求也以同样的方式结束。

‘Yon lad gets war und war!’ observed he on re-entering. ‘He’s left th’ gate at t’ full swing, and Miss’s pony has trodden dahn two rigs o’ corn, and plottered through, raight o’er into t’ meadow! Hahsomdiver, t’ maister ‘ull play t’ devil to-morn, and he’ll do weel. He’s patience itsseln wi’ sich careless, offald craters patience itsseln he is! Bud he’ll not be soa allus yah’s see, all on ye! Yah mun’n’t drive him out of his heead for nowt!’
“小伙子，战争和战争！”他重新进入时说道。 “他全速离开了大门，小姐的小马已经踩到了两块玉米，然后密谋穿过，直接进入草地！” Hahsomdiver，老师明天早上会扮演魔鬼，他会做得很好。他的耐心就是粗心，内脏的耐心就是他的耐心！但他不会是这样的，一切都靠你们了！啊，暂时别把他从脑子里赶出去！”

‘Have you found Heathcliff, you ass?’ interrupted Catherine. ‘Have you been looking for him, as I ordered?’
“你找到希刺克厉夫了吗，你这个混蛋？”凯瑟琳打断道。 “你按照我的命令在找他吗？”

‘I sud more likker look for th’ horse,’ he replied. ‘It ‘ud be to more sense. Bud I can look for norther horse nur man of a neeght loike this as black as t’ chimbley! und Heathcliff’s noan t’ chap to coom at MY whistle happen he’ll be less hard o’ hearing wi’ YE!’
“我更喜欢寻找那匹马，”他回答道。 “这更有道理。”老兄，我可以找一个像烟囱一样黑的北方马努尔人！希斯克利夫的小伙子在我的口哨声响起时，他会变得不那么难听了！

It WAS a very dark evening for summer: the clouds appeared inclined to thunder, and I said we had better all sit down; the approaching rain would be certain to bring him home without further trouble. However, Catherine would hot be persuaded into tranquillity. She kept wandering to and fro, from the gate to the door, in a state of agitation which permitted no repose; and at length took up a permanent situation on one side of the wall, near the road: where, heedless of my expostulations and the growling thunder, and the great drops that began to plash around her, she remained, calling at intervals, and then listening, and then crying outright. She beat Hareton, or any child, at a good passionate fit of crying.
这是夏天的一个非常漆黑的夜晚：乌云似乎要打雷了，我说我们最好都坐下来。即将到来的大雨肯定会把他带回家，不会再有麻烦。然而，凯瑟琳很想被说服平静下来。她从一个门到另一个门，不停地走来走去，焦躁不安，不得安宁。最后，她在墙的一侧，靠近路的地方占据了一个固定的位置：她不顾我的劝告和轰鸣的雷声，也不顾周围开始溅起的大雨，仍然留在那里，时不时地叫一声，然后听着，然后就哭了。她在一阵激烈的哭泣中打败了哈里顿，或者任何一个孩子。

About midnight, while we still sat up, the storm came rattling over the Heights in full fury. There was a violent wind, as well as thunder, and either one or the other split a tree off at the corner of the building: a huge bough fell across the roof, and knocked down a portion of the east chimney-stack, sending a clatter of stones and soot into the kitchen-fire. We thought a bolt had fallen in the middle of us; and Joseph swung on to his knees, beseeching the Lord to remember the patriarchs Noah and Lot, and, as in former times, spare the righteous, though he smote the ungodly. I felt some sentiment that it must be a judgment on us also. The Jonah, in my mind, was Mr. Earnshaw; and I shook the handle of his den that I might ascertain if he were yet living. He replied audibly enough, in a fashion which made my companion vociferate, more clamorously than before, that a wide distinction might be drawn between saints like himself and sinners like his master. But the uproar passed away in twenty minutes, leaving us all unharmed; excepting Cathy, who got thoroughly drenched for her obstinacy in refusing to take shelter, and standing bonnetless and shawl-less to catch as much water as she could with her hair and clothes. She came in and lay down on the settle, all soaked as she was, turning her face to the back, and putting her hands before it.
大约午夜时分，当我们还没有坐起来时，暴风雨就猛烈地袭击了高地。狂风大作，雷声大作，二人把楼角的一棵树劈断了，一根大树枝从屋顶上掉下来，把东边的烟囱撞倒了一部分，石头和烟灰落入厨房的火中。我们以为一颗螺栓落在了我们中间；约瑟跪下，恳求主记念族长诺亚和罗得，并像以前一样，宽恕义人，尽管他打击了不敬虔的人。我有一种感觉，这一定也是对我们的一种评判。在我看来，乔纳就是恩肖先生。我摇晃了他巢穴的把手，以确定他是否还活着。他的回答足够响亮，其方式让我的同伴大声喊叫，比以前更加喧闹，他说，像他这样的圣人与像他的主人这样的罪人之间可能会有很大的区别。但骚乱在二十分钟后就消失了，我们都安然无恙。除了凯茜，她因为顽固地拒绝避难而浑身湿透，她没戴帽子，也没戴围巾，站着用头发和衣服尽可能多地沾水。她走进来，躺在长凳上，全身都湿透了，把脸转向后面，双手放在脸前。

‘Well, Miss!’ I exclaimed, touching her shoulder; ‘you are not bent on getting your death, are you? Do you know what o’clock it is? Half-past twelve. Come, come to bed! there’s no use waiting any longer on that foolish boy: he’ll be gone to Gimmerton, and he’ll stay there now. He guesses we shouldn’t wait for him till this late hour: at least, he guesses that only Mr. Hindley would be up; and he’d rather avoid having the door opened by the master.’
“好吧，小姐！”我拍着她的肩膀喊道。 ‘你不会一心求死吧？你知道现在几点了吗？十二时三十分。来吧，上床睡觉吧！那个愚蠢的男孩再等下去是没有用的：他要去吉默顿了，现在就留在那里。他猜想我们不应该等他到这么晚：至少，他猜只有欣德利先生会起床；他宁愿避免主人打开门。

‘Nay, nay, he’s noan at Gimmerton,’ said Joseph. ‘I’s niver wonder but he’s at t’ bothom of a bog-hoile. This visitation worn’t for nowt, and I wod hev’ ye to look out, Miss yah muh be t’ next. Thank Hivin for all! All warks togither for gooid to them as is chozzen, and piked out fro’ th’ rubbidge! Yah knaw whet t’ Scripture ses.’ And he began quoting several texts, referring us to chapters and verses where we might find them.
“不，不，他是吉默顿的诺安，”约瑟夫说。 “我一点也不奇怪，但他正处于沼泽地的两个角落。”这次拜访现在还没有结束，我希望你们注意，下一个就是你们。感谢希文所做的一切！所有的战争都聚集在一起，为他们提供好东西，就像从垃圾中取出来一样！你知道圣经的内容。”然后他开始引用几段经文，向我们推荐可以找到它们的章节和经文。

I, having vainly begged the wilful girl to rise and remove her wet things, left him preaching and her shivering, and betook myself to bed with little Hareton, who slept as fast as if everyone had been sleeping round him. I heard Joseph read on a while afterwards; then I distinguished his slow step on the ladder, and then I dropped asleep.
我徒劳地恳求那个任性的女孩站起来，把湿漉漉的东西脱掉，让他讲道，让她瑟瑟发抖，自己和小哈里顿一起上床睡觉，他睡得很快，好像每个人都睡在他身边一样。过了一会儿，我听到约瑟夫继续读下去。然后我听出了他在梯子上缓慢的脚步声，然后我就睡着了。

Coming down somewhat later than usual, I saw, by the sunbeams piercing the chinks of the shutters, Miss Catherine still seated near the fireplace. The house-door was ajar, too; light entered from its unclosed windows; Hindley had come out, and stood on the kitchen hearth, haggard and drowsy.
比平时晚了一些，透过百叶窗缝隙中的阳光，我看到凯瑟琳小姐仍然坐在壁炉旁。屋门也半开着。光线从未关上的窗户射入；辛德雷出来了，站在厨房的壁炉旁，面容憔悴，昏昏欲睡。

‘What ails you, Cathy?’ he was saying when I entered: ‘you look as dismal as a drowned whelp. Why are you so damp and pale, child?’
“你怎么了，凯茜？”当我进来时，他说道，“你看起来像一只溺水的幼崽一样沮丧。孩子，你为什么这么潮湿、苍白？

‘I’ve been wet,’ she answered reluctantly, ‘and I’m cold, that’s all.’
“我浑身湿透了，”她不情愿地回答，“而且我很冷，仅此而已。”

‘Oh, she is naughty!’ I cried, perceiving the master to be tolerably sober. ‘She got steeped in the shower of yesterday evening, and there she has sat the night through, and I couldn’t prevail on her to stir.’
“哦，她太淘气了！”我喊道，发现主人还算清醒。 “昨天晚上她被淋湿了，她在那里坐了一整夜，我无法说服她动起来。”

Mr. Earnshaw stared at us in surprise. ‘The night through,’ he repeated. ‘What kept her up? not fear of the thunder, surely? That was over hours since.’
恩肖先生惊讶地看着我们。 “整个晚上，”他重复道。 ‘是什么让她坚持下来了？不怕打雷吧？那已经过去了几个小时了。

Neither of us wished to mention Heathcliff’s absence, as long as we could conceal it; so I replied, I didn’t know how she took it into her head to sit up; and she said nothing. The morning was fresh and cool; I threw back the lattice, and presently the room filled with sweet scents from the garden; but Catherine called peevishly to me, ‘Ellen, shut the window. I’m starving!’ And her teeth chattered as she shrank closer to the almost extinguished embers.
只要我们能隐瞒，我们谁都不想提及希斯克利夫缺席的事。所以我回答说，我不知道她是怎么想到要坐起来的；她什么也没说。早晨清新凉爽。我把格子推开，不一会儿，房间里就充满了花园里的甜香。但凯瑟琳生气地对我喊道：“艾伦，关上窗户。”我饿极了！”她缩得更近几乎熄灭的余烬，牙齿打战。

‘She’s ill,’ said Hindley, taking her wrist; ‘I suppose that’s the reason she would not go to bed. Damn it! I don’t want to be troubled with more sickness here. What took you into the rain?’
“她病了，”辛德雷握住她的手腕说道。 “我想这就是她不肯睡觉的原因。该死的！我不想在这里受到更多疾病的困扰。是什么让你陷入雨中？

‘Running after t’ lads, as usuald!’ croaked Joseph, catching an opportunity from our hesitation to thrust in his evil tongue. ‘If I war yah, maister, I’d just slam t’ boards i’ their faces all on ‘em, gentle and simple! Never a day ut yah’re off, but yon cat o’ Linton comes sneaking hither; and Miss Nelly, shoo’s a fine lass! shoo sits watching for ye i’ t’ kitchen; and as yah’re in at one door, he’s out at t’other; and, then, wer grand lady goes acourting of her side! It’s bonny behaviour, lurking amang t’ fields, after twelve o’ t’ night, wi’ that fahl, flaysome divil of a gipsy, Heathcliff! They think I’M blind; but I’m noan: nowt ut t’ soart! I seed young Linton boath coming and going, and I seed YAH’ (directing his discourse to me), ‘yah gooid fur nowt, slattenly witch! nip up and bolt into th’ house, t’ minute yah heard t’ maister’s horse-fit clatter up t’ road.’
“像往常一样，追着小伙子们跑！”约瑟夫沙哑地说，抓住我们犹豫的机会，吐出了他那邪恶的舌头。 “如果我打仗，老师，我就会用木板把他们的脸全部砸在他们身上，温柔而简单！”你从来没有休息过，但林惇的那只猫却偷偷溜到这里来；耐莉小姐，真是个好姑娘！徐坐在厨房里看着你；当你从一扇门进来时，他就从另一扇门出去；然后，我们的大小姐就去求爱了！这是漂亮的行为，潜伏在田野里，在晚上十二点之后，与那个吉卜赛人希刺克厉夫一起，轻浮的魔鬼！他们认为我是瞎子；但我是诺安：现在就开始吧！我看到年轻的林惇·博斯来来去去，我看到YAH’（把他的话语引向我），‘yah gooid Fur nowt，slattly 女巫！赶紧跑进房子里，就在这时，你听到了校长的马匹在路上发出的嘎嘎声。

‘Silence, eavesdropper!’ cried Catherine; ‘none of your insolence before me! Edgar Linton came yesterday by chance, Hindley; and it was I who told him to be off: because I knew you would not like to have met him as you were.’
“安静，偷听者！”凯瑟琳喊道。 ‘你别在我面前无礼！辛德雷，埃德加·林惇昨天偶然来过。是我让他走开的：因为我知道你不会喜欢像现在这样见到他。

‘You lie, Cathy, no doubt,’ answered her brother, ‘and you are a confounded simpleton! But never mind Linton at present: tell me, were you not with Heathcliff last night? Speak the truth, now. You need not he afraid of harming him: though I hate him as much as ever, he did me a good turn a short time since that will make my conscience tender of breaking his neck. To prevent it, I shall send him about his business this very morning; and after he’s gone, I’d advise you all to look sharp: I shall only have the more humour for you.’
“你撒谎了，凯茜，毫无疑问，”她哥哥回答说，“你是个愚蠢的傻瓜！”不过现在先别管林惇：告诉我，你昨晚不是和希刺克厉夫在一起吗？现在就说实话。你不必害怕伤害他：虽然我一如既往地恨他，但他很快就对我做了好事，因为这会让我的良心感到不安，以至于扭断了他的脖子。为了防止这种情况发生，我今天早上就派他去处理他的事情。他走后，我建议你们都保持警惕：我只会为你们提供更多幽默。

‘I never saw Heathcliff last night,’ answered Catherine, beginning to sob bitterly: ‘and if you do turn him out of doors, I’ll go with him. But, perhaps, you’ll never have an opportunity: perhaps, he’s gone.’ Here she burst into uncontrollable grief, and the remainder of her words were inarticulate.
“昨晚我没见过希刺克厉夫，”凯瑟琳回答道，开始痛苦地抽泣起来，“如果你把他赶出去，我就和他一起去。”但是，也许，你永远不会有机会了：也许，他已经走了。”说到这里，她突然爆发出无法控制的悲伤，剩下的话语变得含糊其辞。

Hindley lavished on her a torrent of scornful abuse, and bade her get to her room immediately, or she shouldn’t cry for nothing! I obliged her to obey; and I shall never forget what a scene she acted when we reached her chamber: it terrified me. I thought she was going mad, and I begged Joseph to run for the doctor. It proved the commencement of delirium: Mr. Kenneth, as soon as he saw her, pronounced her dangerously ill; she had a fever. He bled her, and he told me to let her live on whey and water-gruel, and take care she did not throw herself downstairs or out of the window; and then he left: for he had enough to do in the parish, where two or three miles was the ordinary distance between cottage and cottage.
辛德雷对她大肆辱骂，并吩咐她立即回自己的房间去，否则她不应该白哭！我强迫她服从；我永远不会忘记当我们到达她的房间时她所表现出的情景：这让我感到害怕。我以为她疯了，我请求约瑟夫跑去找医生。这证明了谵妄的开始：肯尼思先生一看到她，就宣布她病危了。她发烧了。他给她放了血，并告诉我让她靠乳清和稀粥生活，并小心她不要从楼下或窗外跳下去。然后他就离开了：因为他在教区有足够的事情要做，那里的小屋与小屋之间通常有两三英里的距离。

Though I cannot say I made a gentle nurse, and Joseph and the master were no better, and though our patient was as wearisome and headstrong as a patient could be, she weathered it through. Old Mrs. Linton paid us several visits, to be sure, and set things to rights, and scolded and ordered us all; and when Catherine was convalescent, she insisted on conveying her to Thrushcross Grange: for which deliverance we were very grateful. But the poor dame had reason to repent of her kindness: she and her husband both took the fever, and died within a few days of each other.
虽然我不能说我是一个温柔的护士，约瑟夫和主人也好不到哪里去，尽管我们的病人像病人一样疲惫和任性，但她还是挺过来了。林惇老太太确实来过我们几次，把事情纠正过来，对我们所有人都进行了责骂和命令。当凯瑟琳康复时，她坚持将她送往画眉田庄：对此我们非常感激。但这位可怜的女士有理由后悔她的仁慈：她和她的丈夫都发烧了，几天之内就相继去世了。

Our young lady returned to us saucier and more passionate, and haughtier than ever. Heathcliff had never been heard of since the evening of the thunder-storm; and, one day, I had the misfortune, when she had provoked me exceedingly, to lay the blame of his disappearance on her: where indeed it belonged, as she well knew. From that period, for several months, she ceased to hold any communication with me, save in the relation of a mere servant. Joseph fell under a ban also: he would speak his mind, and lecture her all the same as if she were a little girl; and she esteemed herself a woman, and our mistress, and thought that her recent illness gave her a claim to be treated with consideration. Then the doctor had said that she would not bear crossing much; she ought to have her own way; and it was nothing less than murder in her eyes for any one to presume to stand up and contradict her. From Mr. Earnshaw and his companions she kept aloof; and tutored by Kenneth, and serious threats of a fit that often attended her rages, her brother allowed her whatever she pleased to demand, and generally avoided aggravating her fiery temper. He was rather too indulgent in humouring her caprices; not from affection, but from pride: he wished earnestly to see her bring honour to the family by an alliance with the Lintons, and as long as she let him alone she might trample on us like slaves, for aught he cared! Edgar Linton, as multitudes have been before and will be after him, was infatuated: and believed himself the happiest man alive on the day he led her to Gimmerton Chapel, three years subsequent to his father’s death.
我们的年轻女士回到我们身边，比以前更加俏皮、更加热情、更加傲慢。自从雷雨天晚上之后，希刺克厉夫就再也没有音讯。有一天，我很不幸，因为她极大地激怒了我，我将他失踪的责任归咎于她：正如她所清楚的那样，这确实属于她。从那时起，有几个月的时间，她不再与我有任何来往，除了纯粹的仆人关系。约瑟夫也受到了禁止：他会说出自己的想法，并像她是一个小女孩一样教训她。她自视自己是一个女人，是我们的情妇，并认为她最近的病使她理应受到照顾。然后医生说她不能忍受太多的穿越。她应该有自己的方式；任何人敢站出来反对她，在她眼里无异于谋杀。她对恩肖先生和他的同伴保持着距离。在肯尼斯的辅导下，她的愤怒常常伴随着严重的发作威胁，她的哥哥满足了她的任何要求，并且通常避免激怒她的火爆脾气。他太纵容她的反复无常了。不是出于感情，而是出于骄傲：他真诚地希望看到她通过与林惇家族结盟为家族带来荣耀，只要她不打扰他，她就可以像奴隶一样践踏我们，不管他在乎什么！埃德加·林顿，正如许多人在他之前和之后一样，被迷住了：在他父亲去世三年后，他带她去吉默顿教堂的那天，他相信自己是世上最幸福的人。

Much against my inclination, I was persuaded to leave Wuthering Heights and accompany her here, Little Hareton was nearly five years old, and I had just begun to teach him his letters. We made a sad parting; but Catherine’s tears were more powerful than ours. When I refused to go, and when she found her entreaties did not move me, she went lamenting to her husband and brother. The former offered me munificent wages; the latter ordered me to pack up: he wanted no women in the house, he said, now that there was no mistress; and as to Hareton, the curate should take him in hand, by-and-by. And so I had but one choice left: to do as I was ordered. I told the master he got rid of all decent people only to run to ruin a little faster; I kissed Hareton, said good-by; and since then he has been a stranger: and it’s very queer to think it, but I’ve no doubt he has completely forgotten all about Ellen Dean, and that he was ever more than all the world to her and she to him!
尽管我很不情愿，但我还是被说服离开呼啸山庄，陪她来这里。小哈里顿已经快五岁了，我刚刚开始教他写信。我们悲伤地离别；但凯瑟琳的眼泪比我们的更有力量。当我拒绝去，而她发现她的恳求并没有打动我时，她就向她的丈夫和兄弟哀叹。前者给了我丰厚的工资；后者命令我收拾行李：他说，既然没有情妇，他就不希望家里有女人。至于哈里顿，牧师应该慢慢地接管他。所以我只剩下一个选择：按照命令去做。我告诉师父，他把一切正直的人都赶走了，只是为了更快地走向灭亡；我吻了哈里顿，道别；从那时起，他就成了一个陌生人：这种想法很奇怪，但我毫不怀疑他已经完全忘记了艾伦·迪恩，他对她来说比整个世界都重要，她对他来说也比整个世界都重要！

At this point of the housekeeper’s story she chanced to glance towards the time-piece over the chimney; and was in amazement on seeing the minute-hand measure half-past one. She would not hear of staying a second longer: in truth, I felt rather disposed to defer the sequel of her narrative myself. And now that she is vanished to her rest, and I have meditated for another hour or two, I shall summon courage to go also, in spite of aching laziness of head and limbs.
管家的故事讲到这里，她偶然瞥了一眼烟囱上方的计时器。当看到分针指针指向一点半时，他感到很惊讶。她不愿意再多待一秒钟：事实上，我宁愿自己推迟她的叙述的续集。现在她已经消失去休息了，而我又冥想了一两个小时，我将鼓起勇气也去，尽管头和四肢又痛又懒。

Chapter X
第十章

A CHARMING introduction to a hermit’s life! Four weeks’ torture, tossing, and sickness! Oh, these bleak winds and bitter northern skies, and impassable roads, and dilatory country surgeons! And oh, this dearth of the human physiognomy! and, worse than all, the terrible intimation of Kenneth that I need not expect to be out of doors till spring!
隐士生活的精彩介绍！四个星期的折磨、折腾、病痛！哦，这些凄凉的风，寒冷的北方天空，无法通行的道路，以及拖延的乡村外科医生！哦，人类相貌的匮乏！最糟糕的是，肯尼思可怕地暗示我在春天之前都不用出门！

Mr. Heathcliff has just honoured me with a call. About seven days ago he sent me a brace of grouse the last of the season. Scoundrel! He is not altogether guiltless in this illness of mine; and that I had a great mind to tell him. But, alas! how could I offend a man who was charitable enough to sit at my bedside a good hour, and talk on some other subject than pills and draughts, blisters and leeches? This is quite an easy interval. I am too weak to read; yet I feel as if I could enjoy something interesting. Why not have up Mrs. Dean to finish her tale? I can recollect its chief incidents, as far as she had gone. Yes: I remember her hero had run off, and never been heard of for three years; and the heroine was married. I’ll ring: she’ll be delighted to find me capable of talking cheerfully. Mrs. Dean came.
希刺克厉夫先生刚刚给我打来电话。大约七天前，他在这个季节的最后一个季节给我寄来了一对松鸡。恶棍！他对我的病也并非完全无罪。我很想告诉他。可惜！我怎么能冒犯一个如此仁慈的人，他在我床边坐了好一小时，谈论的话题除了药物、药物、水泡和水蛭之外？这是一个相当简单的间隔。我太虚弱了，无法读书；但我觉得我好像可以享受一些有趣的事情。为什么不让迪恩夫人来完成她的故事呢？我能回忆起她离开时发生的主要事件。是的：我记得她的英雄跑了，三年了，杳无音信；而且女主角已经结婚了。我会打电话：她会很高兴发现我能够愉快地说话。迪恩夫人来了。

‘It wants twenty minutes, sir, to taking the medicine,’ she commenced.
“先生，吃药需要二十分钟，”她开始说道。

‘Away, away with it!’ I replied; ‘I desire to have ‘
“走开，走开！”我回答道。 ‘我渴望拥有’

‘The doctor says you must drop the powders.’
“医生说你必须把药粉扔掉。”

‘With all my heart! Don’t interrupt me. Come and take your seat here. Keep your fingers from that bitter phalanx of vials. Draw your knitting out of your pocket that will do now continue the history of Mr. Heathcliff, from where you left off, to the present day. Did he finish his education on the Continent, and come back a gentleman? or did he get a sizar’s place at college, or escape to America, and earn honours by drawing blood from his foster-country? or make a fortune more promptly on the English highways?’
'一心一意！别打扰我。过来坐吧。别让你的手指接触那一排苦涩的小瓶。从口袋里掏出你的针织品，这将继续希刺克厉夫先生的历史，从你上次停下的地方一直延续到今天。他是否在欧洲大陆完成了学业并以绅士身份归来？或者他在大学获得了西扎的学位，或者逃到了美国，通过从寄养国吸血来赢得荣誉？或者在英国高速公路上更快地发财？

‘He may have done a little in all these vocations, Mr. Lockwood; but I couldn’t give my word for any. I stated before that I didn’t know how he gained his money; neither am I aware of the means he took to raise his mind from the savage ignorance into which it was sunk: but, with your leave, I’ll proceed in my own fashion, if you think it will amuse and not weary you. Are you feeling better this morning?’
“洛克伍德先生，他可能在所有这些职业中都做了一些贡献；但我无法保证。我之前说过我不知道他的钱是怎么来的；我也不知道他采取了哪些方法来使自己的思想摆脱陷入野蛮的无知：但是，如果您同意，我将按照我自己的方式进行，如果您认为这会让您感到有趣而不是疲倦的话。今天早上你感觉好些了吗？

‘Much.’
'很多。'

‘That’s good news.’
'那是好消息。'

I got Miss Catherine and myself to Thrushcross Grange; and, to my agreeable disappointment, she behaved infinitely better than I dared to expect. She seemed almost over-fond of Mr. Linton; and even to his sister she showed plenty of affection. They were both very attentive to her comfort, certainly. It was not the thorn bending to the honeysuckles, but the honeysuckles embracing the thorn. There were no mutual concessions: one stood erect, and the others yielded: and who can be ill-natured and bad-tempered when they encounter neither opposition nor indifference? I observed that Mr. Edgar had a deep-rooted fear of ruffling her humour. He concealed it from her; but if ever he heard me answer sharply, or saw any other servant grow cloudy at some imperious order of hers, he would show his trouble by a frown of displeasure that never darkened on his own account. He many a time spoke sternly to me about my pertness; and averred that the stab of a knife could not inflict a worse pang than he suffered at seeing his lady vexed. Not to grieve a kind master, I learned to be less touchy; and, for the space of half a year, the gunpowder lay as harmless as sand, because no fire came near to explode it. Catherine had seasons of gloom and silence now and then: they were respected with sympathising silence by her husband, who ascribed them to an alteration in her constitution, produced by her perilous illness; as she was never subject to depression of spirits before. The return of sunshine was welcomed by answering sunshine from him. I believe I may assert that they were really in possession of deep and growing happiness.
我带着凯瑟琳小姐和我自己去了画眉田庄。而且，令我愉快地失望的是，她的表现比我想象的要好得多。她似乎对林惇先生几乎有些过分喜爱了。甚至对他的妹妹她也表现出极大的爱意。当然，他们都非常关心她的舒适度。不是刺向金银花弯曲，而是金银花拥抱刺。没有相互让步，一人挺立，一人屈服，在没有遇到反对和冷漠的情况下，谁能脾气暴躁、脾气暴躁呢？我发现埃德加先生有一种根深蒂固的恐惧，害怕破坏她的幽默感。他向她隐瞒了这件事；但如果他听到我尖锐地回答，或者看到任何其他仆人对她的某些专横命令变得阴郁，他就会通过不悦的皱眉来表明他的麻烦，而这种皱眉从来不会因为他自己而变得阴暗。他多次严厉地批评我的鲁莽。他断言，用刀刺伤他所造成的痛苦，不会比看到他的夫人生气时所遭受的痛苦更严重。为了不让仁慈的主人伤心，我学会了不再那么敏感；在半年的时间里，火药像沙子一样无害，因为没有火靠近它使其爆炸。凯瑟琳时不时地会经历一些忧郁和沉默的季节：她的丈夫以同情的沉默来尊重这些季节，他将这归因于她的危重疾病造成的体质改变；因为她以前从来没有出现过精神沮丧的情况。他用阳光回应阳光，迎接阳光的回归。我相信我可以断言他们确实拥有深刻且不断增长的幸福。

It ended. Well, we MUST be for ourselves in the long run; the mild and generous are only more justly selfish than the domineering; and it ended when circumstances caused each to feel that the one’s interest was not the chief consideration in the other’s thoughts. On a mellow evening in September, I was coming from the garden with a heavy basket of apples which I had been gathering. It had got dusk, and the moon looked over the high wall of the court, causing undefined shadows to lurk in the corners of the numerous projecting portions of the building. I set my burden on the house-steps by the kitchen-door, and lingered to rest, and drew in a few more breaths of the soft, sweet air; my eyes were on the moon, and my back to the entrance, when I heard a voice behind me say, ‘Nelly, is that you?’
它结束。好吧，从长远来看，我们必须为自己着想；温和大方的人只是比专横的人更自私而已。当情况使双方都觉得自己的利益不是对方的主要考虑因素时，这种关系就结束了。九月的一个柔和的夜晚，我从花园里回来，提着一大篮子我一直在采摘的苹果。已是黄昏时分，月光从庭院的高墙上方照过来，在建筑众多突出部分的角落里留下了不明的阴影。我把担子放在厨房门旁的台阶上，徘徊着休息，又吸了几口柔和、甜美的空气。我的眼睛看着月亮，背对着入口，这时我听到身后有一个声音说：“耐莉，是你吗？”

It was a deep voice, and foreign in tone; yet there was something in the manner of pronouncing my name which made it sound familiar. I turned about to discover who spoke, fearfully; for the doors were shut, and I had seen nobody on approaching the steps. Something stirred in the porch; and, moving nearer, I distinguished a tall man dressed in dark clothes, with dark face and hair. He leant against the side, and held his fingers on the latch as if intending to open for himself. ‘Who can it be?’ I thought. ‘Mr. Earnshaw? Oh, no! The voice has no resemblance to his.’
那声音低沉，语气很陌生。然而，我的名字的发音方式却让我听起来很熟悉。我转身想看看是谁在说话，声音充满恐惧。因为门关着，我没有看到有人走近台阶。门廊里有什么东西在搅动；走近了，我发现了一个穿着深色衣服、脸色和头发都是黑色的高个子男人。他靠在旁边，手指放在门闩上，好像要自己打开。 “会是谁呢？”我想。 '先生。恩肖？不好了！这个声音与他的声音没有相似之处。

‘I have waited here an hour,’ he resumed, while I continued staring; ‘and the whole of that time all round has been as still as death. I dared not enter. You do not know me? Look, I’m not a stranger!’
“我已经在这里等了一个小时了，”他继续说道，而我则继续盯着他看。 “整个时间里，周围都像死了一样寂静。我不敢进去。你不认识我？看，我不是陌生人！

A ray fell on his features; the cheeks were sallow, and half covered with black whiskers; the brows lowering, the eyes deep-set and singular. I remembered the eyes.
一道光线落在他的脸上；脸颊蜡黄，半边长着黑色的胡须。眉毛低垂，眼睛深陷而奇异。我记得那双眼睛。

‘What!’ I cried, uncertain whether to regard him as a worldly visitor, and I raised my hands in amazement. ‘What! you come back? Is it really you? Is it?’
“什么！”我叫道，不确定是否把他当作一个世俗的访客，我惊讶地举起双手。 '什么！你回来？真的是你吗？是吗？'

‘Yes, Heathcliff,’ he replied, glancing from me up to the windows, which reflected a score of glittering moons, but showed no lights from within. ‘Are they at home? where is she? Nelly, you are not glad! you needn’t be so disturbed. Is she here? Speak! I want to have one word with her your mistress. Go, and say some person from Gimmerton desires to see her.’
“是的，希刺克厉夫。”他回答道，目光从我身上移到窗户上，窗户上反射着二十颗闪闪发光的月亮，但里面没有任何灯光。 ‘他们在家吗？她在哪？耐莉，你不高兴！你不必如此不安。她在吗？说话！我想和你的女主人说句话去吧，说吉默顿的某个人想见她。”

‘How will she take it?’ I exclaimed. ‘What will she do? The surprise bewilders me it will put her out of her head! And you ARE Heathcliff! But altered! Nay, there’s no comprehending it. Have you been for a soldier?’
“她会怎样接受呢？”我惊呼道。 ‘她会做什么？这个惊喜让我感到困惑，这会让她失去理智！而你就是希刺克厉夫！但变了！不，没有人能理解它。你当过兵吗？

‘Go and carry my message,’ he interrupted, impatiently. ‘I’m in hell till you do!’
“去传达我的信息，”他不耐烦地打断道。 “在你这么做之前我就在地狱里了！”

He lifted the latch, and I entered; but when I got to the parlour where Mr. and Mrs. Linton were, I could not persuade myself to proceed. At length I resolved on making an excuse to ask if they would have the candles lighted, and I opened the door.
他打开门闩，我进去了。但当我到达林顿夫妇所在的客厅时，我无法说服自己继续前进。最后我决定找个借口询问他们是否愿意点蜡烛，然后我打开了门。

They sat together in a window whose lattice lay back against the wall, and displayed, beyond the garden trees, and the wild green park, the valley of Gimmerton, with a long line of mist winding nearly to its top (for very soon after you pass the chapel, as you may have noticed, the sough that runs from the marshes joins a beck which follows the bend of the glen). Wuthering Heights rose above this silvery vapour; but our old house was invisible; it rather dips down on the other side. Both the room and its occupants, and the scene they gazed on, looked wondrously peaceful. I shrank reluctantly from performing my errand; and was actually going away leaving it unsaid, after having put my question about the candles, when a sense of my folly compelled me to return, and mutter, ‘A person from Gimmerton wishes to see you ma’am.’
他们一起坐在一扇窗前，窗子的格子靠在墙上，窗外是花园里的树木和野生的绿色公园，吉默顿山谷，一条长长的雾气几乎蜿蜒到山顶（因为在你之后不久）经过教堂，您可能已经注意到，从沼泽流淌出来的沼泽与沿着峡谷弯曲的小溪汇合在一起）。呼啸山庄矗立在这银色的蒸汽之上；但我们的老房子却看不见了；相反，它在另一侧下降。房间和里面的人，以及他们所看到的场景，都显得出奇的平静。我不情愿地不敢去执行我的任务。在提出了关于蜡烛的问题后，我实际上并没有说出口，这时我的愚蠢感迫使我回来，并嘀咕道：“一位来自吉默顿的人希望见你，女士。”

‘What does he want?’ asked Mrs. Linton.
“他想要什么？”林顿夫人问道。

‘I did not question him,’ I answered.
“我没有质问他，”我回答道。

‘Well, close the curtains, Nelly,’ she said; ‘and bring up tea. I’ll be back again directly.’
“好吧，拉上窗帘，耐莉，”她说。 ‘并端上茶来。我会直接回来。

She quitted the apartment; Mr. Edgar inquired, carelessly, who it was.
她离开了公寓；埃德加先生漫不经心地询问是谁。

‘Some one mistress does not expect,’ I replied. ‘That Heathcliff you recollect him, sir who used to live at Mr. Earnshaw’s.’
“有些情妇没有想到，”我回答道。 “你还记得那个希刺克厉夫吗，先生，他曾经住在恩萧先生家。”

‘What! the gipsy the ploughboy?’ he cried. ‘Why did you not say so to Catherine?’
'什么！ “吉卜赛人还是农夫？”他喊道。 “你为什么不告诉凯瑟琳？”

‘Hush! you must not call him by those names, master,’ I said. ‘She’d be sadly grieved to hear you. She was nearly heartbroken when he ran off. I guess his return will make a jubilee to her.’
‘嘘！你不可以用这些名字称呼他，主人。”我说。 “她听到你的话会非常难过。当他逃跑时，她的心几乎碎了。我想他的回归会给她带来一个禧年。

Mr. Linton walked to a window on the other side of the room that overlooked the court. He unfastened it, and leant out. I suppose they were below, for he exclaimed quickly: ‘Don’t stand there, love! Bring the person in, if it be anyone particular.’ Ere long, I heard the click of the latch, and Catherine flew up-stairs, breathless and wild; too excited to show gladness: indeed, by her face, you would rather have surmised an awful calamity.
林惇先生走到房间另一侧的一扇窗户前，可以俯瞰法庭。他解开它，探身出去。我想他们就在下面，因为他很快喊道：“别站在那里，亲爱的！”没过多久，我听到了门闩的喀哒声，凯瑟琳气喘吁吁地飞上楼，气喘吁吁，狂野起来。太兴奋了，无法表现出高兴：确实，从她的表情来看，你宁愿猜测一场可怕的灾难。

‘Oh, Edgar, Edgar!’ she panted, flinging her arms round his neck. ‘Oh, Edgar darling! Heathcliff’s come back he is!’ And she tightened her embrace to a squeeze.
“噢，埃德加，埃德加！”她气喘吁吁地搂住他的脖子。 “哦，亲爱的埃德加！希刺克厉夫回来了！”她把怀抱收紧了。

‘Well, well,’ cried her husband, crossly, ‘don’t strangle me for that! He never struck me as such a marvellous treasure. There is no need to be frantic!’
“好吧，好吧，”她丈夫生气地叫道，“别因此而勒死我！我从来没有觉得他是一个如此奇妙的宝藏。没有必要疯狂！

‘I know you didn’t like him,’ she answered, repressing a little the intensity of her delight. ‘Yet, for my sake, you must be friends now. Shall I tell him to come up?’
“我知道你不喜欢他，”她回答道，有点压抑着自己的喜悦之情。 “但是，为了我，你们现在必须成为朋友了。”我要叫他上来吗？

‘Here,’ he said, ‘into the parlour?’
“这里，”他说，“到客厅去吗？”

‘Where else?’ she asked.
“还有哪里？”她问道。

He looked vexed, and suggested the kitchen as a more suitable place for him. Mrs. Linton eyed him with a droll expression half angry, half laughing at his fastidiousness.
他看起来很烦恼，并建议厨房是更适合他的地方。林惇夫人用一种滑稽的表情看着他，对他的挑剔，半生气半笑。

‘No,’ she added, after a while; ‘I cannot sit in the kitchen. Set two tables here, Ellen: one for your master and Miss Isabella, being gentry; the other for Heathcliff and myself, being of the lower orders. Will that please you, dear? Or must I have a fire lighted elsewhere? If so, give directions. I’ll run down and secure my guest. I’m afraid the joy is too great to be real!’
“不，”过了一会儿，她补充道。 “我不能坐在厨房里。艾伦，在这里摆两张桌子：一张给你的主人和伊莎贝拉小姐，作为绅士；一张给你的主人和伊莎贝拉小姐；一张给你的主人和伊莎贝拉小姐。另一个是希刺克厉夫和我自己，因为他们属于下层阶级。亲爱的，这会让你高兴吗？或者我必须在别处生火吗？如果是这样，请给出指示。我会跑下去保护我的客人。恐怕这种快乐太大了，不真实！”

She was about to dart off again; but Edgar arrested her.
她正要再次飞奔而去；但埃德加逮捕了她。

‘YOU bid him step up,’ he said, addressing me; ‘and, Catherine, try to be glad, without being absurd. The whole household need not witness the sight of your welcoming a runaway servant as a brother.’
“你命令他站起来，”他对我说。 “凯瑟琳，尽量表现得高兴，但不要显得荒唐。一家人都不需要看到你像兄弟一样欢迎一个逃跑的仆人。

I descended, and found Heathcliff waiting under the porch, evidently anticipating an invitation to enter. He followed my guidance without waste of words, and I ushered him into the presence of the master and mistress, whose flushed cheeks betrayed signs of warm talking. But the lady’s glowed with another feeling when her friend appeared at the door: she sprang forward, took both his hands, and led him to Linton; and then she seized Linton’s reluctant fingers and crushed them into his. Now, fully revealed by the fire and candlelight, I was amazed, more than ever, to behold the transformation of Heathcliff. He had grown a tall, athletic, well-formed man; beside whom my master seemed quite slender and youth-like. His upright carriage suggested the idea of his having been in the army. His countenance was much older in expression and decision of feature than Mr. Linton’s; it looked intelligent, and retained no marks of former degradation. A halfcivilised ferocity lurked yet in the depressed brows and eyes full of black fire, but it was subdued; and his manner was even dignified: quite divested of roughness, though stern for grace. My master’s surprise equalled or exceeded mine: he remained for a minute at a loss how to address the ploughboy, as he had called him. Heathcliff dropped his slight hand, and stood looking at him coolly till he chose to speak.
我下了楼，发现希刺克厉夫正在门廊下等候，显然是在等待邀请。他毫不费力地听从了我的引导，我把他领到了主人和女主人面前，他们通红的脸颊显示出他们正在热情地交谈。但当她的朋友出现在门口时，这位女士却焕发了另一种感觉：她跳上前去，握住他的双手，把他带到了林惇那里。然后她抓住林惇不情愿的手指，将它们压入他的手指中。现在，在火焰和烛光的映照​​下，我比以往任何时候都更惊讶地看到希刺克厉夫的转变。他已经长成了一个身材高大、体格健壮、体态匀称的男人。在他旁边，我的主人显得很瘦弱，很年轻。他笔直的举止暗示着他曾在军队服役过。他的面容无论是表情还是表情都比林惇先生苍老得多。它看起来很聪明，并且没有保留以前退化的痕迹。低垂的眉毛和充满黑色火焰的眼睛里还潜藏着半文明的凶猛，但它被压制住了；他的举止甚至显得庄严：完全摆脱了粗暴，尽管严厉却充满优雅。我主人的惊讶程度与我的不相上下，甚至超过了我：他有一分钟不知道如何称呼那个农夫（他是这样称呼他的）。希刺克厉夫放下了他纤细的手，站在那儿冷静地看着他，直到他决定说话。

‘Sit down, sir,’ he said, at length. ‘Mrs. Linton, recalling old times, would have me give you a cordial reception; and, of course, I am gratified when anything occurs to please her.’
“坐下，先生，”他最后说道。 '太太。林惇忆往昔，请我盛情接待您；当然，当发生任何让她高兴的事情时，我都会很高兴。

‘And I also,’ answered Heathcliff, ‘especially if it be anything in which I have a part. I shall stay an hour or two willingly.’
“我也一样，”希刺克厉夫回答，“特别是如果我参与其中的话。我愿意呆一两个小时。

He took a seat opposite Catherine, who kept her gaze fixed on him as if she feared he would vanish were she to remove it. He did not raise his to her often: a quick glance now and then sufficed; but it flashed back, each time more confidently, the undisguised delight he drank from hers. They were too much absorbed in their mutual joy to suffer embarrassment. Not so Mr. Edgar: he grew pale with pure annoyance: a feeling that reached its climax when his lady rose, and stepping across the rug, seized Heathcliff’s hands again, and laughed like one beside herself.
他在凯瑟琳对面坐下，凯瑟琳一直盯着他，仿佛担心如果她移开目光，他就会消失。他并不经常向她举起自己的眼睛：偶尔扫一眼就足够了；但每次他都更加自信地闪现出他从她那里汲取的毫不掩饰的喜悦。他们全神贯注于彼此的欢乐，无暇忍受尴尬。埃德加先生则不然：他的脸色因纯粹的烦恼而变得苍白：当他的夫人站起来，跨过地毯，再次抓住希刺克厉夫的手，并像一个失控的人一样大笑时，这种感觉达到了顶峰。

‘I shall think it a dream to-morrow!’ she cried. ‘I shall not be able to believe that I have seen, and touched, and spoken to you once more. And yet, cruel Heathcliff! you don’t deserve this welcome. To be absent and silent for three years, and never to think of me!’
“明天我会认为这是一个梦！”她喊道。 “我将无法相信我再次看到你、触摸你、与你交谈。然而，残忍的希刺克厉夫！你不值得受到这样的欢迎。三年不见，一言不发，从来没有想起过我！”

‘A little more than you have thought of me,’ he murmured. ‘I heard of your marriage, Cathy, not long since; and, while waiting in the yard below, I meditated this plan just to have one glimpse of your face, a stare of surprise, perhaps, and pretended pleasure; afterwards settle my score with Hindley; and then prevent the law by doing execution on myself. Your welcome has put these ideas out of my mind; but beware of meeting me with another aspect next time! Nay, you’ll not drive me off again. You were really sorry for me, were you? Well, there was cause. I’ve fought through a bitter life since I last heard your voice; and you must forgive me, for I struggled only for you!’
“比你想象的要多一点，”他低声说道。 “我听说你结婚了，凯茜，不久之前；当我在下面的院子里等待时，我思考了这个计划，只是为了看一眼你的脸，也许是惊讶的目光，还有假装的高兴；然后我就跟辛德雷算账了；然后通过对自己执行死刑来阻止法律的发生。你们的欢迎让我把这些想法抛在了脑后。不过下次要小心，别再遇到别的方面了！不，你不会再赶我走的。你真的很对不起我，是吗？嗯，这是有原因的。自从上次听到你的声音以来，我经历了一段痛苦的生活；你一定要原谅我，因为我只是为了你而奋斗！

‘Catherine, unless we are to have cold tea, please to come to the table,’ interrupted Linton, striving to preserve his ordinary tone, and a due measure of politeness. ‘Mr. Heathcliff will have a long walk, wherever he may lodge to-night; and I’m thirsty.’
“凯瑟琳，除非我们要喝冷茶，否则请到餐桌旁来。”林顿打断道，努力保持他平常的语气和适当的礼貌。 '先生。希刺克厉夫今晚要走很长一段路，无论他住在哪里。我渴了。

She took her post before the urn; and Miss Isabella came, summoned by the bell; then, having handed their chairs forward, I left the room. The meal hardly endured ten minutes. Catherine’s cup was never filled: she could neither eat nor drink. Edgar had made a slop in his saucer, and scarcely swallowed a mouthful. Their guest did not protract his stay that evening above an hour longer. I asked, as he departed, if he went to Gimmerton?
她在瓮前就职；伊莎贝拉小姐在铃声的召唤下来了。然后，我把他们的椅子递到前面，离开了房间。这顿饭足足吃了十分钟。凯瑟琳的杯子从未被填满：她既不能吃也不能喝。埃德加在碟子里溅了一口水，几乎没咽下一口。那天晚上，他们的客人并没有将逗留时间延长一个多小时。当他离开时，我问他是否去了吉默顿？

‘No, to Wuthering Heights,’ he answered: ‘Mr. Earnshaw invited me, when I called this morning.’
“不，去呼啸山庄，”他回答道，“先生。”今天早上我打电话时，恩肖邀请了我。

Mr. Earnshaw invited HIM! and HE called on Mr. Earnshaw! I pondered this sentence painfully, after he was gone. Is he turning out a bit of a hypocrite, and coming into the country to work mischief under a cloak? I mused: I had a presentiment in the bottom of my heart that he had better have remained away.
恩肖先生邀请了他！他拜访了恩肖先生！他走后，我痛苦地思考着这句话。他是不是有点伪善，披着外衣来到这个国家搞恶作剧？我暗想：我心底里有一种预感，他最好还是别走吧。

About the middle of the night, I was wakened from my first nap by Mrs. Linton gliding into my chamber, taking a seat on my bedside, and pulling me by the hair to rouse me.
大约半夜，我第一次小睡时被林惇太太吵醒，林惇太太滑进我的房间，坐在我的床边，拉着我的头发叫醒我。

‘I cannot rest, Ellen,’ she said, by way of apology. ‘And I want some living creature to keep me company in my happiness! Edgar is sulky, because I’m glad of a thing that does not interest him: he refuses to open his mouth, except to utter pettish, silly speeches; and he affirmed I was cruel and selfish for wishing to talk when he was so sick and sleepy. He always contrives to be sick at the least cross! I gave a few sentences of commendation to Heathcliff, and he, either for a headache or a pang of envy, began to cry: so I got up and left him.’
“我无法休息，艾伦，”她说道，以示歉意。 “我想要有一个生物来陪伴我度过我的幸福！”埃德加很闷闷不乐，因为我对一件他不感兴趣的事情感到高兴：他拒绝张开嘴，除了说一些脾气暴躁、愚蠢的言论；他断言我在他病重困倦的时候想要说话是残忍和自私的。他总是想方设法让自己生病，哪怕是最起码的生气！我对希刺克厉夫说了几句赞扬的话，他要么是头疼，要么是嫉妒，开始哭泣：于是我起身离开了他。

‘What use is it praising Heathcliff to him?’ I answered. ‘As lads they had an aversion to each other, and Heathcliff would hate just as much to hear him praised: it’s human nature. Let Mr. Linton alone about him, unless you would like an open quarrel between them.’
“对希斯克利夫称赞有什么用呢？”我回答道。 “作为小伙子，他们彼此厌恶，希刺克厉夫也同样讨厌听到他受到赞扬：这是人性。让林惇先生别管他，除非你想他们之间公开争吵。

‘But does it not show great weakness?’ pursued she. ‘I’m not envious: I never feel hurt at the brightness of Isabella’s yellow hair and the whiteness of her skin, at her dainty elegance, and the fondness all the family exhibit for her. Even you, Nelly, if we have a dispute sometimes, you back Isabella at once; and I yield like a foolish mother: I call her a darling, and flatter her into a good temper. It pleases her brother to see us cordial, and that pleases me. But they are very much alike: they are spoiled children, and fancy the world was made for their accommodation; and though I humour both, I think a smart chastisement might improve them all the same.’
“但这不是表现出极大的弱点吗？”她追问。 “我并不嫉妒：伊莎贝拉明亮的黄发、白皙的皮肤、她的精致优雅以及全家人对她的喜爱，我从来没有感到受伤。即使是你，耐莉，如果我们有时发生争执，你也会立即支持伊莎贝拉；我像个愚蠢的母亲一样屈服：我称她为亲爱的，并奉承她，让她脾气好。她哥哥看到我们如此热情，很高兴，我也很高兴。但他们非常相似：他们都是被宠坏的孩子，幻想着这个世界是为了他们的住宿而创造的；虽然我对两者都很幽默，但我认为明智的惩罚仍然可以改善他们。

‘You’re mistaken, Mrs. Linton,’ said I. ‘They humour you: I know what there would be to do if they did not. You can well afford to indulge their passing whims as long as their business is to anticipate all your desires. You may, however, fall out, at last, over something of equal consequence to both sides; and then those you term weak are very capable of being as obstinate as you.’
“你错了，林惇夫人，”我说，“他们在迁就你：我知道如果他们不迁就你该怎么办。”只要他们的职责是满足您的所有愿望，您就完全可以满足他们一时兴起的想法。然而，最终你们可能会因为一些对双方都同等重要的事情而闹翻。那么那些你所说的软弱的人很可能像你一样顽固。

‘And then we shall fight to the death, sha’n’t we, Nelly?’ she returned, laughing. ‘No! I tell you, I have such faith in Linton’s love, that I believe I might kill him, and he wouldn’t wish to retaliate.’
“然后我们就会战斗到死，不是吗，耐莉？”她笑着回答。 '不！我告诉你，我对林惇的爱充满信心，我相信我可能会杀了他，而他也不会愿意报复。

I advised her to value him the more for his affection.
我建议她更加珍惜他的感情。

‘I do,’ she answered, ‘but he needn’t resort to whining for trifles. It is childish and, instead of melting into tears because I said that Heathcliff was now worthy of anyone’s regard, and it would honour the first gentleman in the country to be his friend, he ought to have said it for me, and been delighted from sympathy. He must get accustomed to him, and he may as well like him: considering how Heathcliff has reason to object to him, I’m sure he behaved excellently!’
“我愿意，”她回答道，“但他不必为了一些小事而发牢骚。这太幼稚了，他不应该因为我说希刺克厉夫现在值得任何人尊敬，成为这个国家的第一位绅士而荣幸地成为他的朋友而流泪，他应该为我说这句话，并为我感到高兴。同情。他必须习惯他，而且还不如喜欢他：考虑到希刺克厉夫有理由反对他，我确信他表现得很好！

‘What do you think of his going to Wuthering Heights?’ I inquired. ‘He is reformed in every respect, apparently: quite a Christian: offering the right hand of fellowship to his enemies all around!’
“你觉得他去呼啸山庄怎么样？”我问道。 “显然，他在各个方面都进行了改革：完全是一名基督徒：向周围的敌人伸出了友谊的右手！”

‘He explained it,’ she replied. ‘I wonder as much as you. He said he called to gather information concerning me from you, supposing you resided there still; and Joseph told Hindley, who came out and fell to questioning him of what he had been doing, and how he had been living; and finally, desired him to walk in. There were some persons sitting at cards; Heathcliff joined them; my brother lost some money to him, and, finding him plentifully supplied, he requested that he would come again in the evening: to which he consented. Hindley is too reckless to select his acquaintance prudently: he doesn’t trouble himself to reflect on the causes he might have for mistrusting one whom he has basely injured. But Heathcliff affirms his principal reason for resuming a connection with his ancient persecutor is a wish to instal himself in quarters at walking distance from the Grange, and an attachment to the house where we lived together; and likewise a hope that I shall have more opportunities of seeing him there than I could have if he settled in Gimmerton. He means to offer liberal payment for permission to lodge at the Heights; and doubtless my brother’s covetousness will prompt him to accept the terms: he was always greedy; though what he grasps with one hand he flings away with the other.’
“他解释了，”她回答道。 “我和你一样想知道。他说他打电话是想从你那里收集有关我的信息，假设你还住在那里；约瑟夫告诉辛德雷，欣德雷出来后质问他做了什么，过着怎样的生活。最后，希望他走进去。有一些人坐在牌旁；希刺克厉夫加入了他们。我哥哥给他丢了一些钱，当他发现他的供应充足时，他要求他晚上再来：他同意了。辛德雷太鲁莽了，无法谨慎地选择他的熟人：他不会费心去思考他可能会因为不信任一个被他卑鄙伤害的人而怀疑自己的原因。但希刺克厉夫确认，他与过去的迫害者恢复联系的主要原因是希望将自己安置在距离农庄步行距离的住所，以及对我们共同居住的房子的依恋；同样，我也希望，如果他定居在吉默顿，我将有更多的机会在那里见到他。他打算为获得在高地住宿的许可而提供慷慨的报酬；毫无疑问，我哥哥的贪婪会促使他接受这些条件：他总是贪婪的；他总是贪婪的。尽管他用一只手抓住的东西，却用另一只手扔掉了。”

‘It’s a nice place for a young man to fix his dwelling in!’ said I. ‘Have you no fear of the consequences, Mrs. Linton?’
“对于一个年轻人来说，这是一个安顿住所的好地方！”我说。“你不担心后果吗，林惇太太？”

‘None for my friend,’ she replied: ‘his strong head will keep him from danger; a little for Hindley: but he can’t be made morally worse than he is; and I stand between him and bodily harm. The event of this evening has reconciled me to God and humanity! I had risen in angry rebellion against Providence. Oh, I’ve endured very, very bitter misery, Nelly! If that creature knew how bitter, he’d be ashamed to cloud its removal with idle petulance. It was kindness for him which induced me to bear it alone: had I expressed the agony I frequently felt, he would have been taught to long for its alleviation as ardently as I. However, it’s over, and I’ll take no revenge on his folly; I can afford to suffer anything hereafter! Should the meanest thing alive slap me on the cheek, I’d not only turn the other, but I’d ask pardon for provoking it; and, as a proof, I’ll go make my peace with Edgar instantly. Goodnight! I’m an angel!’
“对我的朋友来说没有，”她回答道，“他坚强的头脑会让他远离危险；”为辛德雷一点点：但他在道德上不能比现在更糟糕；我站在他和身体伤害之间。今晚的事件让我与上帝和人类和解了！我愤怒地反抗上帝。哦，我忍受了非常非常痛苦的痛苦，耐莉！如果那个生物知道有多苦，他就会羞于用无谓的脾气来掩盖它的消除。正是他的善意让我独自承受了这一切：如果我表达了我经常感受到的痛苦，他就会像我一样热切地渴望得到缓解。然而，一切都结束了，我不会报复他的愚蠢行为；以后什么苦我都可以承受！如果世上最卑鄙的东西打我的脸，我不仅会转过另一边，而且会请求原谅，因为我激怒了它。作为证据，我会立即去和埃德加讲和。晚安！我是一个天使！'

In this self-complacent conviction she departed; and the success of her fulfilled resolution was obvious on the morrow: Mr. Linton had not only abjured his peevishness (though his spirits seemed still subdued by Catherine’s exuberance of vivacity), but he ventured no objection to her taking Isabella with her to Wuthering Heights in the afternoon; and she rewarded him with such a summer of sweetness and affection in return as made the house a paradise for several days; both master and servants profiting from the perpetual sunshine.
她带着这种自满的信念离开了。第二天，她的决心的成功就显而易见了：林惇先生不仅不再发脾气（尽管他的精神似乎仍然被凯瑟琳的热情所抑制），而且他也不敢反对她带伊莎贝拉去呼啸山庄。下午;她回报给了他一个夏天的甜蜜和感情，让这个房子在几天内变成了天堂。主人和仆人都受益于永恒的阳光。

Heathcliff Mr. Heathcliff I should say in future used the liberty of visiting at Thrushcross Grange cautiously, at first: he seemed estimating how far its owner would bear his intrusion. Catherine, also, deemed it judicious to moderate her expressions of pleasure in receiving him; and he gradually established his right to be expected. He retained a great deal of the reserve for which his boyhood was remarkable; and that served to repress all startling demonstrations of feeling. My master’s uneasiness experienced a lull, and further circumstances diverted it into another channel for a space.
希斯克利夫 希斯克利夫先生我应该说，希斯克利夫先生一开始在使用画眉田庄参观的自由时非常谨慎：他似乎在估计田主会在多大程度上忍受他的闯入。凯瑟琳也认为，在接待他时控制住自己的高兴表情是明智之举。他逐渐确立了自己被期待的权利。他保留了很多的矜持，这在他的童年时期是很引人注目的。这有助于抑制所有令人震惊的情感表现。主人的不安经历了一段平静，后来的情况又转移到了另一个空间的通道中。

His new source of trouble sprang from the not anticipated misfortune of Isabella Linton evincing a sudden and irresistible attraction towards the tolerated guest. She was at that time a charming young lady of eighteen; infantile in manners, though possessed of keen wit, keen feelings, and a keen temper, too, if irritated. Her brother, who loved her tenderly, was appalled at this fantastic preference. Leaving aside the degradation of an alliance with a nameless man, and the possible fact that his property, in default of heirs male, might pass into such a one’s power, he had sense to comprehend Heathcliff’s disposition: to know that, though his exterior was altered, his mind was unchangeable and unchanged. And he dreaded that mind: it revolted him: he shrank forebodingly from the idea of committing Isabella to its keeping. He would have recoiled still more had he been aware that her attachment rose unsolicited, and was bestowed where it awakened no reciprocation of sentiment; for the minute he discovered its existence he laid the blame on Heathcliff’s deliberate designing.
他的新麻烦源于伊莎贝拉·林惇的意外不幸，她对这位被容忍的客人突然表现出不可抗拒的吸引力。那时她是一位十八岁的迷人少女；举止幼稚，但拥有敏锐的智慧、敏锐的感情，一旦被激怒，脾气也会变得很暴躁。她的哥哥温柔地爱着她，却对她的这种异想天开的偏爱感到震惊。撇开与一个无名之人的联盟的堕落，以及他的财产如果没有男性继承人，可能会落入这样一个人的权力这一可能的事实，他有理智地理解希刺克厉夫的性格：知道这一点，尽管他的外表是变了，他的心却不变，不变。他害怕这种想法：它让他感到厌恶：他对将伊莎贝拉交给它保管的想法感到不祥。如果他知道她的依恋是不请自来的，而且是在没有唤起情感回报的情况下给予的，他会更加退缩；当他发现它的存在时，他将责任归咎于希刺克厉夫的故意设计。

We had all remarked, during some time, that Miss Linton fretted and pined over something. She grew cross and wearisome; snapping at and teasing Catherine continually, at the imminent risk of exhausting her limited patience. We excused her, to a certain extent, on the plea of ill-health: she was dwindling and fading before our eyes. But one day, when she had been peculiarly wayward, rejecting her breakfast, complaining that the servants did not do what she told them; that the mistress would allow her to be nothing in the house, and Edgar neglected her; that she had caught a cold with the doors being left open, and we let the parlour fire go out on purpose to vex her, with a hundred yet more frivolous accusations, Mrs. Linton peremptorily insisted that she should get to bed; and, having scolded her heartily, threatened to send for the doctor. Mention of Kenneth caused her to exclaim, instantly, that her health was perfect, and it was only Catherine’s harshness which made her unhappy.
我们都曾说过，有一段时间，林惇小姐因为某些事情而焦躁不安。她变得脾气暴躁、疲惫不堪。不断地对凯瑟琳咆哮和戏弄，冒着耗尽她有限耐心的危险。在某种程度上，我们以健康状况不佳为由原谅了她：她在我们眼前日渐衰弱、消失。但有一天，她特别任性，拒绝吃早餐，并抱怨仆人没有按照她的吩咐去做。女主人不允许她在家里什么都不是，埃德加忽视了她。她说她感冒了，门一直开着，我们故意让客厅的火灭了，让她烦恼，林惇太太又说了一百个轻率的指责，硬要她上床睡觉；狠狠地斥责了她，并威胁要派人去请医生。一提到肯尼思，她立刻惊呼自己的健康状况非常好，只是凯瑟琳的严厉让她不高兴。

‘How can you say I am harsh, you naughty fondling?’ cried the mistress, amazed at the unreasonable assertion. ‘You are surely losing your reason. When have I been hash, tell me?’
“你怎么能说我严厉呢，你这个淘气的爱抚者？”女主人对这种无理的说法感到惊讶，大声喊道。 ‘你肯定失去了理智。告诉我，我什么时候变得杂乱了？

‘Yesterday,’ sobbed Isabella, ‘and now!’
“昨天，”伊莎贝拉抽泣着，“还有现在！”

‘Yesterday!’ said her sister-in-law. ‘On what occasion?’
“昨天！”她嫂子说。 “什么场合？”

‘In our walk along the moor: you told me to ramble where I pleased, while you sauntered on with Mr. Heathcliff?’
“我们沿着荒原散步的时候：你让我去我喜欢的地方闲逛，而你则和希斯克利夫先生一起闲逛？”

‘And that’s your notion of harshness?’ said Catherine, laughing. ‘It was no hint that your company was superfluous? We didn’t care whether you kept with us or not; I merely thought Heathcliff’s talk would have nothing entertaining for your ears.’
“这就是你所说的严厉吗？”凯瑟琳笑着说。 ‘这没有暗示你的公司是多余的吗？我们不在乎你是否留在我们身边；我只是觉得希刺克厉夫的谈话对你来说没有什么娱乐性。

‘Oh, no,’ wept the young lady; ‘you wished me away, because you knew I liked to be there!’
“哦，不，”年轻女士哭道。 “你希望我离开，因为你知道我喜欢在那里！”

‘Is she sane?’ asked Mrs. Linton, appealing to me. ‘I’ll repeat our conversation, word for word, Isabella; and you point out any charm it could have had for you.’
“她神志正常吗？”林惇夫人向我问道。 “我会逐字重复我们的谈话，伊莎贝拉；然后你指出它对你有什么魅力。

‘I don’t mind the conversation,’ she answered: ‘I wanted to be with ‘
“我不介意谈话，”她回答道：“我想和‘

‘Well?’ said Catherine, perceiving her hesitate to complete the sentence.
“嗯？”凯瑟琳说，发现她在犹豫是否要说完这句话。

‘With him: and I won’t be always sent off!’ she continued, kindling up. ‘You are a dog in the manger, Cathy, and desire no one to be loved but yourself!’
“和他在一起：我不会总是被罚下场！”她继续说道，情绪激动起来。 “你是马槽里的狗，凯茜，除了你自己，你不希望别人被爱！”

‘You are an impertinent little monkey!’ exclaimed Mrs. Linton, in surprise. ‘But I’ll not believe this idiotcy! It is impossible that you can covet the admiration of Heathcliff that you consider him an agreeable person! I hope I have misunderstood you, Isabella?’
“你真是一只无礼的小猴子！”林惇太太惊讶地叫道。 “但我不会相信这个白痴！你不可能贪图希刺克厉夫的钦佩，认为他是一个令人愉快的人！我希望我误解了你，伊莎贝拉？

‘No, you have not,’ said the infatuated girl. ‘I love him more than ever you loved Edgar, and he might love me, if you would let him!’
“不，你没有，”痴情的女孩说道。 “我爱他胜过你爱埃德加，如果你愿意的话，他可能会爱我！”

‘I wouldn’t be you for a kingdom, then!’ Catherine declared, emphatically: and she seemed to speak sincerely. ‘Nelly, help me to convince her of her madness. Tell her what Heathcliff is: an unreclaimed creature, without refinement, without cultivation; an arid wilderness of furze and whinstone. I’d as soon put that little canary into the park on a winter’s day, as recommend you to bestow your heart on him! It is deplorable ignorance of his character, child, and nothing else, which makes that dream enter your head. Pray, don’t imagine that he conceals depths of benevolence and affection beneath a stern exterior! He’s not a rough diamond a pearl-containing oyster of a rustic: he’s a fierce, pitiless, wolfish man. I never say to him, ‘Let this or that enemy alone, because it would be ungenerous or cruel to harm them;’ I say, ‘Let them alone, because I should hate them to be wronged:’ and he’d crush you like a sparrow’s egg, Isabella, if he found you a troublesome charge. I know he couldn’t love a Linton; and yet he’d be quite capable of marrying your fortune and expectations: avarice is growing with him a besetting sin. There’s my picture: and I’m his friend so much so, that had he thought seriously to catch you, I should, perhaps, have held my tongue, and let you fall into his trap.’
“那么，为了一个王国，我就不会成为你了！”凯瑟琳强调道，而且她说话的语气似乎很真诚。 ‘耐莉，帮我让她相信她的疯狂。告诉她希刺克厉夫是什么：一个未经改造的生物，未经提炼，未经修养；一片长满金雀花和白石的干旱荒野。我宁愿在冬天把那只小金丝雀放进公园，建议你把你的心献给他！令人遗憾的是，对他的性格、孩子的无知，而不是其他什么，才让这个梦想进入了你的脑海。请不要以为他在严厉的外表下隐藏着深厚的仁慈和感情！他不是一颗粗糙的钻石，也不是一个乡村的含珍珠牡蛎：他是一个凶猛、无情、狼性的人。我从来不会对他说，“别管这个或那个敌人，因为伤害他们是不慷慨或残忍的；”我说，“别管他们，因为我讨厌他们被冤枉：”他会压垮你就像麻雀蛋一样，伊莎贝拉，如果他发现你是个麻烦的人。我知道他不可能爱林惇；然而，他完全有能力与你的财富和期望结合：贪婪正在成为困扰他的罪恶。这是我的照片：我是他的朋友，如果他认真地想抓住你，我也许应该闭嘴，让你落入他的陷阱。

Miss Linton regarded her sister-in-law with indignation.
林顿小姐愤慨地看着她的嫂子。

‘For shame! for shame!’ she repeated, angrily. ‘You are worse than twenty foes, you poisonous friend!’
'耻辱！真是耻辱！”她愤怒地重复道。 “你比二十个敌人还糟糕，你这个有毒的朋友！”

‘Ah! you won’t believe me, then?’ said Catherine. ‘You think I speak from wicked selfishness?’
'啊！ “那么你不相信我吗？”凯瑟琳说。 “你认为我说话是出于邪恶的自私吗？”

‘I’m certain you do,’ retorted Isabella; ‘and I shudder at you!’
“我确信你会的，”伊莎贝拉反驳道。 “我对你感到不寒而栗！”

‘Good!’ cried the other. ‘Try for yourself, if that be your spirit: I have done, and yield the argument to your saucy insolence.’ -
“好！”另一个喊道。 “你自己试试吧，如果那是你的精神：我已经做到了，让你的论点屈服于你的无礼无礼。”——

‘And I must suffer for her egotism!’ she sobbed, as Mrs. Linton left the room. ‘All, all is against me: she has blighted my single consolation. But she uttered falsehoods, didn’t she? Mr. Heathcliff is not a fiend: he has an honourable soul, and a true one, or how could he remember her?’
“我必须为她的自负而受苦！”当林顿夫人离开房间时，她抽泣着。 “一切，一切都在反对我：她毁掉了我唯一的安慰。但她说的是假话，不是吗？希刺克厉夫先生不是恶魔：他有一颗高贵的灵魂，而且是一颗真诚的灵魂，不然他怎么会记得她呢？

‘Banish him from your thoughts, Miss,’ I said. ‘He’s a bird of bad omen: no mate for you. Mrs. Linton spoke strongly, and yet I can’t contradict her. She is better acquainted with his heart than I, or any one besides; and she never would represent him as worse than he is. Honest people don’t hide their deeds. How has he been living? how has he got rich? why is he staying at Wuthering Heights, the house of a man whom he abhors? They say Mr. Earnshaw is worse and worse since he came. They sit up all night together continually, and Hindley has been borrowing money on his land, and does nothing but play and drink: I heard only a week ago it was Joseph who told me I met him at Gimmerton: ‘Nelly,’ he said, ‘we’s hae a crowner’s ‘quest enow, at ahr folks’. One on ‘em ‘s a’most getten his finger cut off wi’ hauding t’ other fro’ stickin’ hisseln loike a cawlf. That’s maister, yeah knaw, ‘at ‘s soa up o’ going tuh t’ grand ‘sizes. He’s noan feared o’ t’ bench o’ judges, norther Paul, nur Peter, nur John, nur Matthew, nor noan on ‘em, not he! He fair likes he langs to set his brazened face agean ‘em! And yon bonny lad Heathcliff, yah mind, he’s a rare ‘un. He can girn a laugh as well ‘s onybody at a raight divil’s jest. Does he niver say nowt of his fine living amang us, when he goes to t’ Grange? This is t’ way on ‘t:up at sun-down: dice, brandy, cloised shutters, und can’le-light till next day at noon: then, t’fooil gangs banning und raving to his cham’er, makking dacent fowks dig thur fingers i’ thur lugs fur varry shame; un’ the knave, why he can caint his brass, un’ ate, un’ sleep, un’ off to his neighbour’s to gossip wi’ t’ wife. I’ course, he tells Dame Catherine how her fathur’s goold runs into his pocket, and her fathur’s son gallops down t’ broad road, while he flees afore to oppen t’ pikes!’ Now, Miss Linton, Joseph is an old rascal, but no liar; and, if his account of Heathcliff’s conduct be true, you would never think of desiring such a husband, would you?’
“小姐，把他从你的脑海中抹去，”我说。 “他是一只不祥之鸟：不适合你。”林惇夫人说得很激烈，但我无法反驳她。她比我或其他任何人都更了解他的心。她永远不会把他描述得比他更糟糕。诚实的人不会隐瞒自己的行为。他过得怎么样？他是怎么致富的？他为什么要住在呼啸山庄这个他所憎恶的人的家里？他们说自从恩肖先生来了之后，他的情况就变得越来越糟。他们不断地整夜坐在一起，欣德利一直在他的土地上借钱，除了玩耍和喝酒之外什么也不做：我听说一周前是约瑟夫告诉我我在吉默顿遇见了他：“耐莉，”他说，“我们现在有一个加冕者的任务，各位，”。其中一人差点被砍断手指，因为他像一只小鹿一样粘着自己。那是大师，是的，知道，‘在’s soa up o’ go tuh t’ grand ‘sizes。他是法官们最害怕的人，北方的保罗，彼得，约翰，马太，也不是他们，不是他！他很喜欢把他厚颜无耻的脸放在他们面前！还有那个漂亮的小伙子希刺克厉夫，请注意，他是一个罕见的“un”。他也能让任何人开一个真正的恶作剧。当他去田庄时，他从来没有和我们说过他过着美好的生活吗？这就是日落时分的样子：骰子，白兰地，关闭百叶窗，直到第二天中午才可以点灯：然后，傻瓜团伙禁止他的房间并胡言乱语，制作达森特福克斯挖了周四的手指，我周四拖着毛皮瓦里羞耻；这个无赖，为什么他可以把他的铜管烧坏，不吃饭，不睡觉，不去他的邻居家和妻子闲聊。 当然，他告诉凯瑟琳夫人，她父亲的金子跑进了他的口袋，她父亲的儿子在宽阔的道路上疾驰，而他却在前面逃跑去对抗长矛！”现在，林惇小姐，约瑟夫是个老流氓，但没有说谎者；而且，如果他对希斯克利夫行为的描述属实，你就永远不会想到想要这样的丈夫，不是吗？’

‘You are leagued with the rest, Ellen!’ she replied. ‘I’ll not listen to your slanders. What malevolence you must have to wish to convince me that there is no happiness in the world!’
“你和其他人是结盟的，艾伦！”她回答道。 ‘我不会听你的诽谤。你到底有多恶毒，想让我相信世界上没有幸福！”

Whether she would have got over this fancy if left to herself, or persevered in nursing it perpetually, I cannot say: she had little time to reflect. The day after, there was a justice-meeting at the next town; my master was obliged to attend; and Mr. Heathcliff, aware of his absence, called rather earlier than usual. Catherine and Isabella were sitting in the library, on hostile terms, but silent: the latter alarmed at her recent indiscretion, and the disclosure she had made of her secret feelings in a transient fit of passion; the former, on mature consideration, really offended with her companion; and, if she laughed again at her pertness, inclined to make it no laughing matter to her. She did laugh as she saw Heathcliff pass the window. I was sweeping the hearth, and I noticed a mischievous smile on her lips. Isabella, absorbed in her meditations, or a book, remained till the door opened; and it was too late to attempt an escape, which she would gladly have done had it been practicable.
如果让她自己处理的话，她是否会克服这种幻想，或者永远坚持下去，我不能说：她几乎没有时间反思。第二天，邻镇举行了一次正义会议。我的主人必须出席；希刺克厉夫先生知道他缺席，比平时更早地打电话来。凯瑟琳和伊莎贝拉坐在图书馆里，态度敌对，但却保持沉默：后者对她最近的轻率行为以及她在短暂的激情中透露出自己的秘密感情感到震惊；前者，经过深思熟虑，确实得罪了她的同伴；后者则确实得罪了她的同伴。如果她再次因为自己的无礼而发笑，我会尽量让她不再觉得这件事是可笑的。当她看到希刺克厉夫从窗户经过时，她确实笑了。我正在扫壁炉，我注意到她嘴角挂着顽皮的微笑。伊莎贝拉全神贯注地沉思或读书，一直待到门打开。现在想要逃跑已经太晚了，如果可行的话，她很乐意这么做。

‘Come in, that’s right!’ exclaimed the mistress, gaily, pulling a chair to the fire. ‘Here are two people sadly in need of a third to thaw the ice between them; and you are the very one we should both of us choose. Heathcliff, I’m proud to show you, at last, somebody that dotes on you more than myself. I expect you to feel flattered. Nay, it’s not Nelly; don’t look at her! My poor little sister-in-law is breaking her heart by mere contemplation of your physical and moral beauty. It lies in your own power to be Edgar’s brother! No, no, Isabella, you sha’n’t run off,’ she continued, arresting, with feigned playfulness, the confounded girl, who had risen indignantly. ‘We were quarrelling like cats about you, Heathcliff; and I was fairly beaten in protestations of devotion and admiration: and, moreover, I was informed that if I would but have the manners to stand aside, my rival, as she will have herself to be, would shoot a shaft into your soul that would fix you for ever, and send my image into eternal oblivion!’
“进来吧，没错！”女主人高兴地喊道，拉过一把椅子到火边。 “两个人不幸地需要第三个人来融化他们之间的冰；而你正是我们双方都应该选择的人。希刺克厉夫，我很自豪终于向你展示了一个比我更爱你的人。我希望你会感到受宠若惊。不，这不是耐莉；她不是。别看她！我可怜的小姑子光是想到你的身体和道德之美就心碎了。成为埃德加的兄弟，就靠你自己的力量了！不，不，伊莎贝拉，你不能逃跑。”她假装开玩笑地继续说道，抓住了那个愤怒地站起来的困惑的女孩。 “我们像猫一样为你争吵，希斯克利夫；我在表示忠诚和钦佩的声明中遭到了相当大的殴打：此外，我被告知，如果我有礼貌地站在一边，我的对手，正如她自己所希望的那样，会向你的灵魂射一箭，将永远修复你，并将我的形象永远遗忘！”

‘Catherine!’ said Isabella, calling up her dignity, and disdaining to struggle from the tight grasp that held her, ‘I’d thank you to adhere to the truth and not slander me, even in joke! Mr. Heathcliff, be kind enough to bid this friend of yours release me: she forgets that you and I are not intimate acquaintances; and what amuses her is painful to me beyond expression.’
“凯瑟琳！”伊莎贝拉唤起她的尊严，不屑于挣脱她的紧握，“我感谢你坚持真理，不要诽谤我，哪怕是开玩笑！”希刺克厉夫先生，请您好心地请您的这位朋友放开我吧：她忘记了您和我并不是熟人；她忘记了。她的乐趣让我感到难以言表的痛苦。

As the guest answered nothing, but took his seat, and looked thoroughly indifferent what sentiments she cherished concerning him, she turned and whispered an earnest appeal for liberty to her tormentor.
客人没有回答，只是坐下来，看上去完全不在乎她对他的感情，她转过身来，低声恳切地向折磨她的人恳求自由。

‘By no means!’ cried Mrs. Linton in answer. ‘I won’t be named a dog in the manger again. You SHALL stay: now then! Heathcliff, why don’t you evince satisfaction at my pleasant news? Isabella swears that the love Edgar has for me is nothing to that she entertains for you. I’m sure she made some speech of the kind; did she not, Ellen? And she has fasted ever since the day before yesterday’s walk, from sorrow and rage that I despatched her out of your society under the idea of its being unacceptable.’
“决不！”林惇夫人大声回答道。 “我不会再被称为马槽里的狗了。”你应该留下来：那么现在！希刺克厉夫，为什么你对我的好消息不表现出满意的样子呢？伊莎贝拉发誓埃德加对我的爱与她对你的爱不相上下。我确信她发表过一些类似的演讲；她不是吗，艾伦？从昨天散步的前一天起，她就开始禁食，因为我认为这是不可接受的，所以我把她从你们的社会中赶了出来，这让她感到悲伤和愤怒。

‘I think you belie her,’ said Heathcliff, twisting his chair to face them. ‘She wishes to be out of my society now, at any rate!’
“我认为你骗了她，”希斯克利夫说，扭动椅子面对他们。 “无论如何，她现在希望离开我的社会！”

And he stared hard at the object of discourse, as one might do at a strange repulsive animal: a centipede from the Indies, for instance, which curiosity leads one to examine in spite of the aversion it raises. The poor thing couldn’t bear that; she grew white and red in rapid succession, and, while tears beaded her lashes, bent the strength of her small fingers to loosen the firm clutch of Catherine; and perceiving that as fast as she raised one finger off her arm another closed down, and she could not remove the whole together, she began to make use of her nails; and their sharpness presently ornamented the detainer’s with crescents of red.
他紧紧地盯着谈话的对象，就像人们可能会盯着一种奇怪的令人厌恶的动物一样：例如来自印度群岛的蜈蚣，尽管它引起了厌恶，但好奇心还是会让人去检查。这可怜的东西无法忍受。她的脸色迅速变白、变红，泪水在她的睫毛上滴下，她用小手指的力量松开了凯瑟琳的紧紧抓着的手。她意识到，当她把一根手指从手臂上抬起来时，另一根手指就会闭合，而她无法将整个手指一起取下来，于是她开始使用指甲。它们的锐度很快就在拘留者的身上装饰上了红色的新月形。

‘There’s a tigress!’ exclaimed Mrs. Linton, setting her free, and shaking her hand with pain. ‘Begone, for God’s sake, and hide your vixen face! How foolish to reveal those talons to him. Can’t you fancy the conclusions he’ll draw? Look, Heathcliff! they are instruments that will do execution you must beware of your eyes.’
“有一只母老虎！”林惇夫人叫道，放开了她，痛苦地握着她的手。 “走吧，看在上帝的份上，把你那张狐狸脸藏起来！”把那些利爪暴露给他是多么愚蠢啊。你难道想象不到他会得出什么结论吗？看，希刺克厉夫！它们是执行死刑的工具，你必须小心你的眼睛。”

‘I’d wrench them off her fingers, if they ever menaced me,’ he answered, brutally, when the door had closed after her. ‘But what did you mean by teasing the creature in that manner, Cathy? You were not speaking the truth, were you?’
“如果它们威胁我，我会把它们从她的手指上夺下来，”当门在她身后关上时，他粗暴地回答道。 “但是你用这种方式戏弄这个生物是什么意思呢，凯茜？你没有说实话，是吗？

‘I assure you I was,’ she returned. ‘She has been dying for your sake several weeks, and raving about you this morning, and pouring forth a deluge of abuse, because I represented your failings in a plain light, for the purpose of mitigating her adoration. But don’t notice it further: I wished to punish her sauciness, that’s all. I like her too well, my dear Heathcliff, to let you absolutely seize and devour her up.’
“我向你保证我是的，”她回答道。 “几个星期以来，她一直在为你而死，今天早上，她对你赞不绝口，并大肆谩骂，因为我把你的缺点公然描绘出来，目的是为了减轻她的崇拜。但别再注意到了：我只是想惩罚她的无礼，仅此而已。我太喜欢她了，我亲爱的希斯克利夫，不允许你完全抓住并吞噬她。

‘And I like her too ill to attempt it,’ said he, ‘except in a very ghoulish fashion. You’d hear of odd things if I lived alone with that mawkish, waxen face: the most ordinary would be painting on its white the colours of the rainbow, and turning the blue eyes black, every day or two: they detestably resemble Linton’s.’
“我太喜欢她了，所以不敢尝试，”他说，“除非以一种非常残忍的方式。”如果我和那张伤感的蜡质脸独自生活，你会听到奇怪的事情：最普通的就是在它的白色上画上彩虹的颜色，然后每隔一两天就把蓝眼睛变成黑色：它们与林惇的眼睛极其相似。 '

‘Delectably!’ observed Catherine. ‘They are dove’s eyes angel’s!’
“令人愉快！”凯瑟琳评论道。 “它们是天使的鸽子眼！”

‘She’s her brother’s heir, is she not?’ he asked, after a brief silence.
“她是她哥哥的继承人，不是吗？”短暂的沉默后，他问道。

‘I should be sorry to think so,’ returned his companion. ‘Half a dozen nephews shall erase her title, please heaven! Abstract your mind from the subject at present: you are too prone to covet your neighbour’s goods; remember THIS neighbour’s goods are mine.’
“这么想我应该感到遗憾，”他的同伴回答道。 “六个侄子将抹去她的头衔，老天爷！”现在把你的注意力从这个主题上抽离出来：你太容易觊觎邻居的物品；请记住，这个邻居的货物是我的。”

‘If they were MINE, they would be none the less that,’ said Heathcliff; ‘but though Isabella Linton may be silly, she is scarcely mad; and, in short, we’ll dismiss the matter, as you advise.’
“如果它们是我的，它们也将是这样的，”希刺克厉夫说。 “尽管伊莎贝拉·林顿可能很傻，但她并没有疯；简而言之，我们将按照您的建议驳回此事。

From their tongues they did dismiss it; and Catherine, probably, from her thoughts. The other, I felt certain, recalled it often in the course of the evening. I saw him smile to himself grin rather and lapse into ominous musing whenever Mrs. Linton had occasion to be absent from the apartment.
他们确实从他们的舌头上驳回了它；和凯瑟琳，可能，从她的想法来看。我敢肯定，另一个人在晚上经常回忆起这件事。我看到他自顾自地笑了笑，每当林惇太太有机会不在公寓时，他就会陷入不祥的沉思。

I determined to watch his movements. My heart invariably cleaved to the master’s, in preference to Catherine’s side: with reason I imagined, for he was kind, and trustful, and honourable; and she she could not be called OPPOSITE, yet she seemed to allow herself such wide latitude, that I had little faith in her principles, and still less sympathy for her feelings. I wanted something to happen which might have the effect of freeing both Wuthering Heights and the Grange of Mr. Heathcliff quietly; leaving us as we had been prior to his advent. His visits were a continual nightmare to me; and, I suspected, to my master also. His abode at the Heights was an oppression past explaining. I felt that God had forsaken the stray sheep there to its own wicked wanderings, and an evil beast prowled between it and the fold, waiting his time to spring and destroy.
我决定观察他的动作。我的心总是站在主人一边，而不是凯瑟琳一边：我想这是有道理的，因为他善良，值得信赖，而且值得尊敬；但我的心始终是站在主人一边的。她不能被称为对立面，但她似乎给自己很大的自由度，我对她的原则几乎没有信心，更不同情她的感受。我希望发生一些事情，能够安静地解放呼啸山庄和希刺克厉夫先生的田庄。让我们保持在他到来之前的样子。他的来访对我来说是一场持续不断的噩梦。我怀疑，对我的主人也是如此。他在高地的住所是一种无法解释的压迫。我觉得上帝已经抛弃了那里的迷羊，让它们自己邪恶地流浪，一只邪恶的野兽在它和羊圈之间徘徊，等待着时机跳出来毁灭。

Chapter XI
第十一章

SOMETIMES, while meditating on these things in solitude, I’ve got up in a sudden terror, and put on my bonnet to go see how all was at the farm. I’ve persuaded my conscience that it was a duty to warn him how people talked regarding his ways; and then I’ve recollected his confirmed bad habits, and, hopeless of benefiting him, have flinched from re-entering the dismal house, doubting if I could bear to be taken at my word.
有时，当我独自思考这些事情时，我会突然惊恐地站起来，戴上帽子去看看农场里的情况。我说服了自己的良心，告诉他人们如何谈论他的行为是我的责任。然后我又想起了他已经养成的坏习惯，并且对他没有任何好处，不敢再进入这间阴暗的房子，怀疑我是否能忍受我的话被人相信。

One time I passed the old gate, going out of my way, on a journey to Gimmerton. It was about the period that my narrative has reached: a bright frosty afternoon; the ground bare, and the road hard and dry. I came to a stone where the highway branches off on to the moor at your left hand; a rough sand-pillar, with the letters W. H. cut on its north side, on the east, G., and on the south-west, T. G. It serves as a guide-post to the Grange, the Heights, and village. The sun shone yellow on its grey head, reminding me of summer; and I cannot say why, but all at once a gush of child’s sensations flowed into my heart. Hindley and I held it a favourite spot twenty years before. I gazed long at the weather-worn block; and, stooping down, perceived a hole near the bottom still full of snail-shells and pebbles, which we were fond of storing there with more perishable things; and, as fresh as reality, it appeared that I beheld my early playmate seated on the withered turf: his dark, square head bent forward, and his little hand scooping out the earth with a piece of slate. ‘Poor Hindley!’ I exclaimed, involuntarily. I started: my bodily eye was cheated into a momentary belief that the child lifted its face and stared straight into mine! It vanished in a twinkling; but immediately I felt an irresistible yearning to be at the Heights. Superstition urged me to comply with this impulse: supposing he should be dead! I thought or should die soon! supposing it were a sign of death! The nearer I got to the house the more agitated I grew; and on catching sight of it I trembled in every limb. The apparition had outstripped me: it stood looking through the gate. That was my first idea on observing an elf-locked, brown-eyed boy setting his ruddy countenance against the bars. Further reflection suggested this must be Hareton, MY Hareton, not altered greatly since I left him, ten months since.
有一次，我特意前往吉默顿，经过旧大门。这是关于我的叙述所达到的时期：一个明亮、寒冷的下午；地面光秃秃的，路又硬又干。我来到一块石头前，公路在那里分叉，通向你左手边的荒野。一根粗糙的沙柱，北侧刻有字母W.H.，东侧刻有G.，西南方刻有T.G.。它是通往田庄、高地和村庄的路标。太阳在它灰色的头上闪耀着黄色的光芒，让我想起了夏天；说不出为什么，一股童趣突然涌上心头。二十年前，欣德利和我曾把它当作最喜欢的地方。我久久地凝视着这座饱经风霜的街区；弯下腰，发现靠近底部的一个洞里仍然装满了蜗牛壳和鹅卵石，我们喜欢把它们和更容易腐烂的东西一起存放在那里。和现实一样新鲜的是，我似乎看到了我早年的玩伴坐在枯萎的草皮上：他的黑色方头向前弯曲，他的小手用一块石板挖出泥土。 “可怜的辛德雷！”我不由自主地喊道。我吃了一惊：我的肉眼被欺骗了，瞬间相信那个孩子抬起了脸，直视着我！转眼间就消失了；但我立刻就产生了一种无法抗拒的想去高地的渴望。迷信催促我顺从这种冲动：假设他应该死了！我想还是应该很快死掉！假设这是死亡的征兆！离房子越近，我就越焦躁。当我看到它时，我的四肢都在颤抖。那个幽灵比我还快：它站在门口向外面看。这是我看到一个棕色眼睛的小男孩将红润的脸靠在栏杆上时的第一个想法。 进一步思考表明，这一定是哈里顿，我的哈里顿，自从我离开他十个月以来，他没有发生太大变化。

‘God bless thee, darling!’ I cried, forgetting instantaneously my foolish fears. ‘Hareton, it’s Nelly! Nelly, thy nurse.’
“上帝保佑你，亲爱的！”我喊道，立刻忘记了我愚蠢的恐惧。 “哈里顿，是耐莉！耐莉，你的护士。

He retreated out of arm’s length, and picked up a large flint.
他退到一臂之外，拿起一块大燧石。

‘I am come to see thy father, Hareton,’ I added, guessing from the action that Nelly, if she lived in his memory at all, was not recognised as one with me.
“我是来见你父亲的，哈里顿。”我补充道，从他的记忆中猜测，耐莉如果真的存在于他的记忆中，也不会被认作是我的一员。

He raised his missile to hurl it; I commenced a soothing speech, but could not stay his hand: the stone struck my bonnet; and then ensued, from the stammering lips of the little fellow, a string of curses, which, whether he comprehended them or not, were delivered with practised emphasis, and distorted his baby features into a shocking expression of malignity. You may be certain this grieved more than angered me. Fit to cry, I took an orange from my pocket, and offered it to propitiate him. He hesitated, and then snatched it from my hold; as if he fancied I only intended to tempt and disappoint him. I showed another, keeping it out of his reach.
他举起导弹准备投掷；我开始安慰自己，但无法阻止他的手：石头击中了我的帽子；然后，从这个小家伙结结巴巴的嘴唇里，发出了一连串的咒骂，不管他是否听懂了这些咒骂，咒骂的语气都是经过训练的，把他婴儿般的面容扭曲成令人震惊的恶毒表情。你可能确信这让我感到悲伤而不是愤怒。我快要哭了，从口袋里掏出一个橙子，递给他以安抚他。他犹豫了一下，然后从我手中夺过它。好像他以为我只是想诱惑他并使他失望。我展示了另一张，并把它放在他够不到的地方。

‘Who has taught you those fine words, my bairn?’ I inquired. ‘The curate?’
“我的孩子，谁教你这些好词儿的？”我问道。 “牧师？”

‘Damn the curate, and thee! Gie me that,’ he replied.
“该死的牧师，还有你！”给我这个，”他回答道。

‘Tell us where you got your lessons, and you shall have it,’ said I. ‘Who’s your master?’
“告诉我们你在哪里学的，你就会得到它，”我说。“你的老师是谁？”

‘Devil daddy,’ was his answer.
“魔鬼爸爸，”他的回答是。

‘And what do you learn from daddy?’ I continued.
“那你从爸爸身上学到了什么？”我继续说道。

He jumped at the fruit; I raised it higher. ‘What does he teach you?’ I asked.
他跳向水果。我把它举得更高了。 “他教你什么？”我问。

‘Naught,’ said he, ‘but to keep out of his gait. Daddy cannot bide me, because I swear at him.’
“没什么，”他说，“不过是为了不妨碍他的步态。”爸爸不能命令我，因为我骂他。

‘Ah! and the devil teaches you to swear at daddy?’ I observed.
'啊！魔鬼教你咒骂爸爸？”我观察到。

‘Ay nay,’ he drawled.
“不，”他慢吞吞地说。

‘Who, then?’
“那么谁呢？”

‘Heathcliff.’
“希刺克厉夫。”

‘I asked if he liked Mr. Heathcliff.’
“我问他是否喜欢希刺克厉夫先生。”

‘Ay!’ he answered again.
“嗯！”他再次回答。

Desiring to have his reasons for liking him, I could only gather the sentences ‘I known’t: he pays dad back what he gies to me he curses daddy for cursing me. He says I mun do as I will.’
想要知道他喜欢他的理由，我只能收集这样一句话：“我不知道：他给我什么，他就还给爸爸，他咒骂爸爸咒骂我。”他说我一定会做我想做的事。

‘And the curate does not teach you to read and write, then?’ I pursued.
“那么牧师不教你读书写字吗？”我追问。

‘No, I was told the curate should have his teeth dashed down his throat, if he stepped over the threshold Heathcliff had promised that!’
“不，有人告诉我，如果神甫跨过希刺克厉夫许诺的门槛，他的牙齿就应该被打碎！”

I put the orange in his hand, and bade him tell his father that a woman called Nelly Dean was waiting to speak with him, by the garden gate. He went up the walk, and entered the house; but, instead of Hindley, Heathcliff appeared on the door-stones; and I turned directly and ran down the road as hard as ever I could race, making no halt till I gained the guide-post, and feeling as scared as if I had raised a goblin. This is not much connected with Miss Isabella’s affair: except that it urged me to resolve further on mounting vigilant guard, and doing my utmost to cheek the spread of such bad influence at the Grange: even though I should wake a domestic storm, by thwarting Mrs. Linton’s pleasure.
我把橙子放在他手里，让他告诉他父亲，一个叫耐莉·迪恩的女人正在花园门口等着和他说话。他沿着人行道走进屋子。但是，门石上出现的不是辛德雷，而是希刺克厉夫。我直接转身，尽我所能地沿着路跑，直到找到路标才停下来，我感到害怕，就像我养了一只妖精一样。这与伊莎贝拉小姐的事情没有多大关系：只是它促使我进一步下定决心，提高警惕，尽最大努力阻止这种不良影响在田庄蔓延：即使我会唤醒一场国内风暴，通过阻止林惇夫人很高兴。

The next time Heathcliff came my young lady chanced to be feeding some pigeons in the court. She had never spoken a word to her sister-in-law for three days; but she had likewise dropped her fretful complaining, and we found it a great comfort. Heathcliff had not the habit of bestowing a single unnecessary civility on Miss Linton, I knew. Now, as soon as he beheld her, his first precaution was to take a sweeping survey of the house-front. I was standing by the kitchen-window, but I drew out of sight. He then stepped across the pavement to her, and said something: she seemed embarrassed, and desirous of getting away; to prevent it, he laid his hand on her arm. She averted her face: he apparently put some question which she had no mind to answer. There was another rapid glance at the house, and supposing himself unseen, the scoundrel had the impudence to embrace her.
希刺克厉夫下次来的时候，我的小姐碰巧在球场上喂鸽子。三天来，她没有和嫂子说过一句话。但她也不再烦躁地抱怨，我们觉得这给了我们很大的安慰。我知道，希刺克厉夫没有对林惇小姐表现出一丝不必要的礼貌的习惯。现在，一看到她，他的第一个预防措施就是对房子的正面进行彻底的调查。我当时正站在厨房窗边，但我却躲到了视线之外。然后他跨过人行道来到她面前，说了些什么：她似乎很尴尬，想要走开；但她似乎很尴尬。为了防止这种情况发生，他把手放在她的手臂上。她别过脸去：他显然提出了一些她无心回答的问题。那恶棍又快速地扫了一眼房子，以为自己没被看见，就厚颜无耻地拥抱了她。

‘Judas! Traitor!’ I ejaculated. ‘You are a hypocrite, too, are you? A deliberate deceiver.’
‘犹大！叛徒！”我喊道。 ‘你也是个伪君子，不是吗？一个故意的骗子。

‘Who is, Nelly?’ said Catherine’s voice at my elbow: I had been over-intent on watching the pair outside to mark her entrance.
“谁是谁，耐莉？”凯瑟琳的声音在我身边说道：我一直在注意观察外面的两人，以标记她的到来。

‘Your worthless friend!’ I answered, warmly: ‘the sneaking rascal yonder. Ah, he has caught a glimpse of us he is coming in! I wonder will he have the heart to find a plausible excuse for making love to Miss, when he told you he hated her?’
“你那个没用的朋友！”我热情地回答道，“那边那个偷偷摸摸的流氓。”啊，他已经看到我们了，他进来了！我想知道，当他告诉你他恨她时，他还会愿意找一个合理的借口与小姐做爱吗？

Mrs. Linton saw Isabella tear herself free, and run into the garden; and a minute after, Heathcliff opened the door. I couldn’t withhold giving some loose to my indignation; but Catherine angrily insisted on silence, and threatened to order me out of the kitchen, if I dared to be so presumptuous as to put in my insolent tongue.
林顿夫人看到伊莎贝拉挣脱了束缚，跑进了花园。一分钟后，希刺克厉夫打开了门。我忍不住要发泄一下我的愤慨。但凯瑟琳愤怒地坚持保持沉默，并威胁说，如果我胆敢放肆地说出无礼的舌头，她就命令我离开厨房。

‘To hear you, people might think you were the mistress!’ she cried. ‘You want setting down in your right place! Heathcliff, what are you about, raising this stir? I said you must let Isabella alone! I beg you will, unless you are tired of being received here, and wish Linton to draw the bolts against you!’
“听到你的声音，人们可能会认为你是情妇！”她喊道。 ‘你想在正确的地方安顿下来！希刺克厉夫，你到底想搞什么事情？我说过你必须放过伊莎贝拉！我请求你这么做，除非你厌倦了在这里被接待，并希望林惇对你开枪！

‘God forbid that he should try!’ answered the black villain. I detested him just then. ‘God keep him meek and patient! Every day I grow madder after sending him to heaven!’
“上帝禁止他尝试！”黑人恶棍回答道。我当时就讨厌他了。 ‘愿上帝保佑他温顺和耐心！送他上天堂后，我一天比一天更生气！

‘Hush!’ said Catherine, shutting the inner door! ‘Don’t vex me. Why have you disregarded my request? Did she come across you on purpose?’
“嘘！”凯瑟琳说着，关上了内门！ ‘别惹我生气。为什么你无视我的请求？她是故意遇见你的吗？

‘What is it to you?’ he growled. ‘I have a right to kiss her, if she chooses; and you have no right to object. I am not YOUR husband: YOU needn’t be jealous of me!’
“这关你什么事？”他咆哮道。 “如果她愿意，我有权吻她；并且你无权反对。我不是你的丈夫：你不必嫉妒我！

‘I’m not jealous of you,’ replied the mistress; ‘I’m jealous for you. Clear your face: you sha’n’t scowl at me! If you like Isabella, you shall marry her. But do you like her? Tell the truth, Heathcliff! There, you won’t answer. I’m certain you don’t.’
“我并不嫉妒你，”女主人回答道。 ‘我很嫉妒你。把你的脸清清楚楚：你不准对我皱眉！如果你喜欢伊莎贝拉，你就娶她。但你喜欢她吗？说实话，希刺克厉夫！在那里，你不会回答。我确信你不知道。

‘And would Mr. Linton approve of his sister marrying that man?’ I inquired.
“林惇先生会同意他的妹妹嫁给那个男人吗？”我问道。

‘Mr. Linton should approve,’ returned my lady, decisively.
'先生。林惇应该批准。”我的女士果断地回答道。

‘He might spare himself the trouble,’ said Heathcliff: ‘I could do as well without his approbation. And as to you, Catherine, I have a mind to speak a few words now, while we are at it. I want you to be aware that I KNOW you have treated me infernally infernally! Do you hear? And if you flatter yourself that I don’t perceive it, you are a fool; and if you think I can be consoled by sweet words, you are an idiot: and if you fancy I’ll suffer unrevenged, I’ll convince you of the contrary, in a very little while! Meantime, thank you for telling me your sister-in-law’s secret: I swear I’ll make the most of it. And stand you aside!’
“他可能会省去麻烦，”希刺克厉夫说，“无需他的同意，我也可以这么做。”至于你，凯瑟琳，我现在想在我们讨论的时候说几句话。我想让你知道，我知道你对我的态度非常恶劣！你听到了吗？如果你自以为我没有察觉，那你就是个傻瓜；如果你认为我可以用甜言蜜语来安慰，那你就是个白痴；如果你认为我会遭受不报之仇，我很快就会让你相信事实并非如此！同时，谢谢你告诉我你嫂子的秘密：我发誓我会充分利用它。把你站到一边去！”

‘What new phase of his character is this?’ exclaimed Mrs. Linton, in amazement. ‘I’ve treated you infernally and you’ll take your revenge! How will you take it, ungrateful brute? How have I treated you infernally?’
“他性格的新阶段是什么？”林惇夫人惊讶地喊道。 “我对你的态度很恶劣，你一定会报仇的！”你会如何接受，忘恩负义的畜生？我是怎样对待你的？

‘I seek no revenge on you,’ replied Heathcliff, less vehemently. ‘That’s not the plan. The tyrant grinds down his slaves and they don’t turn against him; they crush those beneath them. You are welcome to torture me to death for your amusement, only allow me to amuse myself a little in the same style, and refrain from insult as much as you are able. Having levelled my palace, don’t erect a hovel and complacently admire your own charity in giving me that for a home. If I imagined you really wished me to marry Isabel, I’d cut my throat!’
“我无意向你报仇。”希刺克厉夫回答道，语气不那么激烈了。 ‘这不是计划。暴君碾压他的奴隶，他们并不反抗他；他们压垮了他们下面的人。欢迎你把我折磨死以供你娱乐，只允许我以同样的方式娱乐自己一点，并且尽量不要侮辱。当我的宫殿被夷为平地后，不要再盖起一间小屋，然后沾沾自喜地欣赏你们为我提供一个家的仁慈。如果我想象你真的希望我嫁给伊莎贝尔，我就会割断我的喉咙！

‘Oh, the evil is that I am NOT jealous, is it?’ cried Catherine. ‘Well, I won’t repeat my offer of a wife: it is as bad as offering Satan a lost soul. Your bliss lies, like his, in inflicting misery. You prove it. Edgar is restored from the ill-temper he gave way to at your coming; I begin to be secure and tranquil; and you, restless to know us at peace, appear resolved on exciting a quarrel. Quarrel with Edgar, if you please, Heathcliff, and deceive his sister: you’ll hit on exactly the most efficient method of revenging yourself on me.’
“哦，可恶的是我不嫉妒，是吗？”凯瑟琳喊道。 “好吧，我不会重复我的妻子提议：这就像向撒旦提供一个迷失的灵魂一样糟糕。你的幸福就像他一样，存在于造成痛苦之中。你证明一下。埃德加在你到来时的坏脾气已经恢复了。我开始感到安全和平静；而你却焦躁不安地想知道我们和睦相处，似乎决意要挑起一场争吵。希刺克厉夫，如果你愿意的话，可以和埃德加吵架，然后欺骗他的妹妹：你会找到向我报仇的最有效方法。

The conversation ceased. Mrs. Linton sat down by the fire, flushed and gloomy. The spirit which served her was growing intractable: she could neither lay nor control it. He stood on the hearth with folded arms, brooding on his evil thoughts; and in this position I left them to seek the master, who was wondering what kept Catherine below so long.
谈话停止了。林惇太太坐在火边，脸色通红，表情阴郁。为她服务的精神变得越来越难以驾驭：她既无法安抚也无法控制它。他抱着双臂站在炉边，沉思着自己的邪恶想法。在这个位置上，我让他们去寻找主人，他想知道是什么让凯瑟琳在下面这么久。

‘Ellen,’ said he, when I entered, ‘have you seen your mistress?’
“艾伦，”当我进来时他说，“你看到你的女主人了吗？”

‘Yes; she’s in the kitchen, sir,’ I answered. ‘She’s sadly put out by Mr. Heathcliff’s behaviour: and, indeed, I do think it’s time to arrange his visits on another footing. There’s harm in being too soft, and now it’s come to this .’ And I related the scene in the court, and, as near as I dared, the whole subsequent dispute. I fancied it could not be very prejudicial to Mrs. Linton; unless she made it so afterwards, by assuming the defensive for her guest. Edgar Linton had difficulty in hearing me to the close. His first words revealed that he did not clear his wife of blame.
'是的; “先生，她在厨房里。”我回答道。 “希斯克利夫先生的行为让她感到难过：事实上，我确实认为是时候从另一个角度安排他的来访了。”太软弱是有害的，现在却变成了这样。”我讲述了法庭上的场景，以及随后发生的整个纠纷。我想这对林惇夫人来说不会有太大的伤害；除非她后来为她的客人采取了防御措施。埃德加·林惇很难听清我的讲话。他的第一句话就表明他并没有为妻子洗脱罪责。

‘This is insufferable!’ he exclaimed. ‘It is disgraceful that she should own him for a friend, and force his company on me! Call me two men out of the hall, Ellen. Catherine shall linger no longer to argue with the low ruffian I have humoured her enough.’
“这太令人难以忍受了！”他惊呼道。 “她竟然把他当作朋友，还把他的陪伴强加给我，真是丢脸！”叫我两个人离开大厅，艾伦。凯瑟琳将不再逗留与我已经足够迁就她的低级恶棍争论了。

He descended, and bidding the servants wait in the passage, went, followed by me, to the kitchen. Its occupants had recommenced their angry discussion: Mrs. Linton, at least, was scolding with renewed vigour; Heathcliff had moved to the window, and hung his head, somewhat cowed by her violent rating apparently. He saw the master first, and made a hasty motion that she should be silent; which she obeyed, abruptly, on discovering the reason of his intimation.
他下了楼，吩咐仆人在过道里等候，然后我就去了厨房。里面的人又开始了他们愤怒的讨论：至少林惇太太正在用新的活力责骂；希刺克厉夫走到窗边，低下了头，显然是被她的暴力评价吓到了。他首先看到了主人，并急忙示意她不要出声。当她发现他暗示的原因时，她突然服从了。

‘How is this?’ said Linton, addressing her; ‘what notion of propriety must you have to remain here, after the language which has been held to you by that blackguard? I suppose, because it is his ordinary talk you think nothing of it: you are habituated to his baseness, and, perhaps, imagine I can get used to it too!’
“怎么样？”林惇对她说道。 “在那个恶棍对你说了那些话之后，你必须留在这里，有什么礼仪观念？”我想，因为这是他的平常谈话，所以你不会介意：你已经习惯了他的卑鄙，也许，想象我也能习惯它！

‘Have you been listening at the door, Edgar?’ asked the mistress, in a tone particularly calculated to provoke her husband, implying both carelessness and contempt of his irritation. Heathcliff, who had raised his eyes at the former speech, gave a sneering laugh at the latter; on purpose, it seemed, to draw Mr. Linton’s attention to him. He succeeded; but Edgar did not mean to entertain him with any high flights of passion.
“埃德加，你在门口偷听吗？”女主人问道，语气里特意故意激怒她的丈夫，暗示着他的粗心大意和对他恼怒的蔑视。希刺克厉夫在前一席话中抬起了眼睛，对后一席话冷笑了一声。看来是故意的，为了引起林惇先生的注意。他成功了;但埃德加并不想以任何高度的热情来招待他。

‘I’ve been so far forbearing with you, sir,’ he said quietly; ‘not that I was ignorant of your miserable, degraded character, but I felt you were only partly responsible for that; and Catherine wishing to keep up your acquaintance, I acquiesced foolishly. Your presence is a moral poison that would contaminate the most virtuous: for that cause, and to prevent worse consequences, I shall deny you hereafter admission into this house, and give notice now that I require your instant departure. Three minutes’ delay will render it involuntary and ignominious.
“到目前为止，我一直对你很宽容，先生。”他平静地说。 “并不是说我不知道​​你悲惨、堕落的性格，但我觉得你对此只负有部分责任；凯瑟琳想继续和你们保持联系，我愚蠢地默许了。你的存在是一种道德毒药，会污染最有道德的人：为此，为了防止更糟糕的后果，我将拒绝你进入这所房子，现在通知我要求你立即离开。拖延三分钟就会变得非自愿且可耻的。

Heathcliff measured the height and breadth of the speaker with an eye full of derision.
希刺克厉夫用充满嘲讽的眼神测量着说话者的高度和宽度。

‘Cathy, this lamb of yours threatens like a bull!’ he said. ‘It is in danger of splitting its skull against my knuckles. By God! Mr. Linton, I’m mortally sorry that you are not worth knocking down!’
“凯茜，你的这只羔羊像公牛一样威胁！”他说。 “它的头骨有被我的指关节劈裂的危险。老天为证！林顿先生，我非常抱歉，你不值得被击倒！

My master glanced towards the passage, and signed me to fetch the men: he had no intention of hazarding a personal encounter. I obeyed the hint; but Mrs. Linton, suspecting something, followed; and when I attempted to call them, she pulled me back, slammed the door to, and locked it.
我的主人朝通道看了一眼，示意我去把人带过来：他无意冒个人遭遇的危险。我听从了提示；但林惇太太有所怀疑，也跟了上去。当我试图打电话给他们时，她把我拉了回来，关上门，然后锁上。

‘Fair means!’ she said, in answer to her husband’s look of angry surprise. ‘If you have not courage to attack him, make an apology, or allow yourself to be beaten. It will correct you of feigning more valour than you possess. No, I’ll swallow the key before you shall get it! I’m delightfully rewarded for my kindness to each! After constant indulgence of one’s weak nature, and the other’s bad one, I earn for thanks two samples of blind ingratitude, stupid to absurdity! Edgar, I was defending you and yours; and I wish Heathcliff may flog you sick, for daring to think an evil thought of me!’
“公平！”她回答道，丈夫一脸愤怒、惊讶的表情。 “如果你没有勇气攻击他，就道歉，或者让自己挨打。”它会纠正你假装比你拥有的更勇敢的行为。不，我会在你拿到钥匙之前把它吞下去！我对每个人的善意都得到了令人高兴的回报！在不断纵容一个人的软弱本性和另一个人的坏本性之后，我赢得了两种盲目忘恩负义、愚蠢到荒谬的表现！埃德加，我是在保护你和你的家人；我希望希刺克厉夫能鞭打你，因为你竟敢对我产生邪恶的想法！

It did not need the medium of a flogging to produce that effect on the master. He tried to wrest the key from Catherine’s grasp, and for safety she flung it into the hottest part of the fire; whereupon Mr. Edgar was taken with a nervous trembling, and his countenance grew deadly pale. For his life he could not avert that excess of emotion: mingled anguish and humiliation overcame him completely. He leant on the back of a chair, and covered his face.
它不需要鞭打的媒介来对主人产生这种效果。他试图从凯瑟琳手中夺走钥匙，为了安全起见，她把钥匙扔进了火最热的地方；埃德加先生紧张得浑身发抖，脸色变得惨白。他一生都无法避免这种过度的情感：痛苦和羞辱交织在一起，完全征服了他。他靠在椅背上，捂住了脸。

‘Oh, heavens! In old days this would win you knighthood!’ exclaimed Mrs. Linton. ‘We are vanquished! we are vanquished! Heathcliff would as soon lift a finger at you as the king would march his army against a colony of mice. Cheer up! you sha’n’t be hurt! Your type is not a lamb, it’s a sucking leveret.’
‘哦，天啊！在过去，这会让你赢得爵士头衔！”林惇夫人惊呼道。 ‘我们被打败了！我们被打败了！希刺克厉夫对你动一根手指头，就像国王派军队对付一群老鼠一样。开心点！你不会受伤的！你的类型不是一只羔羊，而是一只吮吸的小兔子。

‘I wish you joy of the milk-blooded coward, Cathy!’ said her friend. ‘I compliment you on your taste. And that is the slavering, shivering thing you preferred to me! I would not strike him with my fist, but I’d kick him with my foot, and experience considerable satisfaction. Is he weeping, or is he going to faint for fear?’
“凯茜，我祝你像个胆小鬼一样快乐！”她的朋友说道。 ‘我称赞你的品味。这就是你比我更喜欢流口水、颤抖的东西！我不会用拳头打他，但我会用脚踢他，并体验到相当大的满足感。他是在哭泣，还是会因为害怕而晕倒？

The fellow approached and gave the chair on which Linton rested a push. He’d better have kept his distance: my master quickly sprang erect, and struck him full on the throat a blow that would have levelled a slighter man. It took his breath for a minute; and while he choked, Mr. Linton walked out by the back door into the yard, and from thence to the front entrance.
那家伙走过来，推了推林惇坐的椅子。他最好保持距离：我的主人很快站了起来，狠狠地击中了他的喉咙，这一击对于一个体弱的人来说可能会被打倒。他屏住了呼吸一分钟。林惇先生在他哽咽的时候，从后门走进院子，又从那里走到前门。

‘There! you’ve done with coming here,’ cried Catherine. ‘Get away, now; he’ll return with a brace of pistols and half-a-dozen assistants. If he did overhear us, of course he’d never forgive you. You’ve played me an ill turn, Heathcliff! But go make haste! I’d rather see Edgar at bay than you.’
'那里！你已经不再来这里了，”凯瑟琳喊道。 ‘现在就走开；他将带着一对手枪和六名助手回来。如果他真的听到了我们的话，他当然不会原谅你。你害了我，希刺克厉夫！不过，快点去吧！我宁愿看到埃德加陷入困境，也不愿看到你。

‘Do you suppose I’m going with that blow burning in my gullet?’ he thundered. ‘By hell, no! I’ll crush his ribs in like a rotten hazel-nut before I cross the threshold! If I don’t floor him now, I shall murder him some time; so, as you value his existence, let me get at him!’
“你认为我会在食道里燃烧着那一击而走吗？”他咆哮道。 ‘见鬼，不！在我跨过门槛之前，我会像踩烂榛子一样把他的肋骨压碎！如果我现在不打倒他，有一天我会杀了他；所以，既然你重视他的存在，那就让我来对付他吧！

‘He is not coming,’ I interposed, framing a bit of a lie. ‘There’s the coachman and the two gardeners; you’ll surely not wait to be thrust into the road by them! Each has a bludgeon; and master will, very likely, be watching from the parlour-windows to see that they fulfil his orders.’
“他不会来了，”我插话道，编造了一个谎言。 “有车夫和两个园丁；你肯定会迫不及待地被他们推到路上！每个人都有一根棍棒；主人很可能会从客厅的窗户观察他们是否履行他的命令。

The gardeners and coachman were there: but Linton was with them. They had already entered the court. Heathcliff, on the second thoughts, resolved to avoid a struggle against three underlings: he seized the poker, smashed the lock from the inner door, and made his escape as they tramped in.
园丁和车夫都在那里，但林惇和他们在一起。他们已经进入了法庭。希刺克厉夫转念一想，决定避免与三个下属发生争斗：他抓起拨火棍，砸碎内门的锁，在他们踏入时逃走了。

Mrs. Linton, who was very much excited, bade me accompany her upstairs. She did not know my share in contributing to the disturbance, and I was anxious to keep her in ignorance.
林顿夫人非常兴奋，叫我陪她上楼。她不知道我对这场骚乱负有责任，而我也急于不让她知道。

‘I’m nearly distracted, Nelly!’ she exclaimed, throwing herself on the sofa. ‘A thousand smiths’ hammers are beating in my head! Tell Isabella to shun me; this uproar is owing to her; and should she or any one else aggravate my anger at present, I shall get wild. And, Nelly, say to Edgar, if you see him again to-night, that I’m in danger of being seriously ill. I wish it may prove true. He has startled and distressed me shockingly! I want to frighten him. Besides, he might come and begin a string of abuse or complainings; I’m certain I should recriminate, and God knows where we should end! Will you do so, my good Nelly? You are aware that I am no way blamable in this matter. What possessed him to turn listener? Heathcliff’s talk was outrageous, after you left us; but I could soon have diverted him from Isabella, and the rest meant nothing. Now all is dashed wrong; by the fool’s craving to hear evil of self, that haunts some people like a demon! Had Edgar never gathered our conversation, he would never have been the worse for it. Really, when he opened on me in that unreasonable tone of displeasure after I had scolded Heathcliff till I was hoarse for him, I did not care hardly what they did to each other; especially as I felt that, however the scene closed, we should all be driven asunder for nobody knows how long! Well, if I cannot keep Heathcliff for my friend if Edgar will be mean and jealous, I’ll try to break their hearts by breaking my own. That will be a prompt way of finishing all, when I am pushed to extremity! But it’s a deed to be reserved for a forlorn hope; I’d not take Linton by surprise with it. To this point he has been discreet in dreading to provoke me; you must represent the peril of quitting that policy, and remind him of my passionate temper, verging, when kindled, on frenzy. I wish you could dismiss that apathy out of that countenance, and look rather more anxious about me.’
“我差点心烦意乱了，耐莉！”她一边叫道，一边倒在沙发上。 ‘一千个铁匠’的锤子在我的脑海里敲击！告诉伊莎贝拉避开我；这场骚动都是她造成的；如果她或其他任何人现在激怒我，我就会发疯。而且，耐莉，对埃德加说，如果你今晚再次见到他，我就有患重病的危险。我希望这可能被证明是真的。他让我震惊又心疼！我想吓唬他。此外，他可能会过来开始一连串的辱骂或抱怨；我确信我应该互相指责，天知道我们应该在哪里结束！你愿意这样做吗，我的好耐莉？你知道我在这件事上无可指责。是什么让他成为倾听者？你离开我们之后，希刺克厉夫的言论令人难以容忍。但我很快就能把他从伊莎贝拉身边转移开，其余的一切都毫无意义。现在一切都错了；由于愚人渴望听到自己的邪恶，这像恶魔一样困扰着一些人！如果埃德加没有听到我们的谈话，他的处境也不会因此变得更糟。真的，当我把希刺克厉夫骂得声嘶力竭之后，当他用那种不合理的不悦语气向我开口时，我根本不在乎他们对彼此做了什么；我根本不在乎。尤其是我觉得，无论场景如何结束，我们都应该被分开，没人知道要持续多久！好吧，如果我不能为我的朋友保留希刺克厉夫，如果埃德加变得卑鄙和嫉妒，我会试图通过伤我自己的心来伤他们的心。当我被逼到绝境时，这将是结束一切的一个快捷方式！但这是为绝望的希望而保留的行为；我不会对此感到惊讶。 到目前为止，他一直很谨慎，不敢激怒我。你必须向他表明放弃这项政策的危险，并提醒他我的脾气暴躁，一旦被点燃，就近乎疯狂。我希望你能消除那张脸上的冷漠，看起来对我更加焦虑。’

The stolidity with which I received these instructions was, no doubt, rather exasperating: for they were delivered in perfect sincerity; but I believed a person who could plan the turning of her fits of passion to account, beforehand, might, by exerting her will, manage to control herself tolerably, even while under their influence; and I did not wish to ‘frighten’ her husband, as she said, and multiply his annoyances for the purpose of serving her selfishness. Therefore I said nothing when I met the master coming towards the parlour; but I took the liberty of turning back to listen whether they would resume their quarrel together. He began to speak first.
我收到这些指示时的冷漠无疑是相当令人恼火的：因为它们是在完全真诚的情况下传达的；但我相信，如果一个人能够事先计划好如何控制自己的激情发作，那么，通过发挥自己的意志，即使是在他们的影响下，也可能能够很好地控制自己。我不想像她所说的那样“吓唬”她的丈夫，为了满足她的自私而增加他的烦恼。因此，当我遇见上师朝客厅走来时，我什么也没说；但我还是冒昧地回头想听听他们是否还会继续吵架。他首先开始说话。

‘Remain where you are, Catherine,’ he said; without any anger in his voice, but with much sorrowful despondency. ‘I shall not stay. I am neither come to wrangle nor be reconciled; but I wish just to learn whether, after this evening’s events, you intend to continue your intimacy with ‘
“留在原地，凯瑟琳，”他说。他的语气中没有丝毫的愤怒，反而带着浓浓的悲凉。 ‘我不会留下来。我既不是来争吵的，也不是来和解的；但我只是想知道，在今晚的事件之后，你是否打算继续与‘

‘Oh, for mercy’s sake,’ interrupted the mistress, stamping her foot, ‘for mercy’s sake, let us hear no more of it now! Your cold blood cannot be worked into a fever: your veins are full of icewater; but mine are boiling, and the sight of such chillness makes them dance.’
“哦，看在上帝的份上，”女主人跺着脚打断道，“看在上帝的份上，我们现在别再听了！”你的冷血无法转化为发烧：你的血管里充满了冰水；但我的却沸腾了，如此寒冷的景象让他们跳舞。

‘To get rid of me, answer my question,’ persevered Mr. Linton. ‘You must answer it; and that violence does not alarm me. I have found that you can be as stoical as anyone, when you please. Will you give up Heathcliff hereafter, or will you give up me? It is impossible for you to be MY friend and HIS at the same time; and I absolutely REQUIRE to know which you choose.’
“要摆脱我，就回答我的问题，”林惇先生坚持说。 ‘你必须回答；这种暴力并没有让我惊慌。我发现只要你愿意，你可以像任何人一样坚忍。以后你会放弃希刺克厉夫，还是放弃我？你不可能同时成为我的朋友和他的朋友；我绝对需要知道你选择哪一个。

‘I require to be let alone?’ exclaimed Catherine, furiously. ‘I demand it! Don’t you see I can scarcely stand? Edgar, you you leave me!’
“我需要一个人呆着吗？”凯瑟琳愤怒地喊道。 ‘我要求！你没看到我快要站不住了吗？埃德加，你你离开我吧！

She rang the bell till it broke with a twang; I entered leisurely. It was enough to try the temper of a saint, such senseless, wicked rages! There she lay dashing her head against the arm of the sofa, and grinding her teeth, so that you might fancy she would crash them to splinters! Mr. Linton stood looking at her in sudden compunction and fear. He told me to fetch some water. She had no breath for speaking. I brought a glass full; and as she would not drink, I sprinkled it on her face. In a few seconds she stretched herself out stiff, and turned up her eyes, while her cheeks, at once blanched and livid, assumed the aspect of death. Linton looked terrified.
她按响了门铃，直到门铃“叮”地一声响了。我悠闲地进去了。足以考验圣人的脾气了，如此无意义、邪恶的愤怒！她躺在那儿，用头撞沙发扶手，磨牙，你可能会想象她会把牙齿撞成碎片！林惇先生站在那里，突然感到内疚和恐惧，看着她。他叫我去取点水。她连说话的力气都没有了。我带了满满一杯；由于她不肯喝，我就把它洒在她脸上。几秒钟后，她僵硬地伸直了身体，抬起眼睛，脸颊立刻变得苍白、铁青，呈现出死亡的样子。林惇看上去很害怕。

‘There is nothing in the world the matter,’ I whispered. I did not want him to yield, though I could not help being afraid in my heart.
“世界上没有什么事，”我低声说道。我不想让他屈服，心里却忍不住害怕。

‘She has blood on her lips!’ he said, shuddering.
“她的嘴唇上沾满了血！”他颤抖着说道。

‘Never mind!’ I answered, tartly. And I told him how she had resolved, previous to his coming, on exhibiting a fit of frenzy. I incautiously gave the account aloud, and she heard me; for she started up her hair flying over her shoulders, her eyes flashing, the muscles of her neck and arms standing out preternaturally. I made up my mind for broken bones, at least; but she only glared about her for an instant, and then rushed from the room. The master directed me to follow; I did, to her chamber-door: she hindered me from going further by securing it against me.
“没关系！”我尖刻地回答。我告诉他，在他到来之前，她是如何决定表现出一阵疯狂的。我不小心大声说出了情况，她听到了。因为她开始把头发披散在肩上，眼睛闪闪发光，脖子和手臂的肌肉异常突出。至少我已经下定决心要骨折了。但她只看了她一眼，然后就冲出了房间。师父指示我跟随；我走到了她的房门前：她把门锁在我身上，阻止我继续前行。

As she never offered to descend to breakfast next morning, I went to ask whether she would have some carried up. ‘No!’ she replied, peremptorily. The same question was repeated at dinner and tea; and again on the morrow after, and received the same answer. Mr. Linton, on his part, spent his time in the library, and did not inquire concerning his wife’s occupations. Isabella and he had had an hour’s interview, during which he tried to elicit from her some sentiment of proper horror for Heathcliff’s advances: but he could make nothing of her evasive replies, and was obliged to close the examination unsatisfactorily; adding, however, a solemn warning, that if she were so insane as to encourage that worthless suitor, it would dissolve all bonds of relationship between herself and him.
由于她从未提出第二天早上下楼吃早餐，我就去问她是否可以带一些东西过来。 “不！”她断然回答。晚餐和茶点时，同样的问题又被重复了一遍。第二天又再次收到同样的答复。林惇先生则在图书馆消磨时光，并没有询问他妻子的职业。伊莎贝拉和他进行了一个小时的会面，其间他试图从她那里引出对希刺克厉夫的求爱的某种适当的恐惧感：但他对她闪烁其辞的回答一无所知，不得不以不令人满意的方式结束了这次检查；不过，她还郑重警告，如果她疯狂到鼓励那个毫无价值的追求者，她和他之间的所有关系都会消失。

Chapter XII
第十二章

WHILE Miss Linton moped about the park and garden, always silent, and almost always in tears; and her brother shut himself up among books that he never opened wearying, I guessed, with a continual vague expectation that Catherine, repenting her conduct, would come of her own accord to ask pardon, and seek a reconciliation and SHE fasted pertinaciously, under the idea, probably, that at every meal Edgar was ready to choke for her absence, and pride alone held him from running to cast himself at her feet; I went about my household duties, convinced that the Grange had but one sensible soul in its walls, and that lodged in my body. I wasted no condolences on Miss, nor any expostulations on my mistress; nor did I pay much attention to the sighs of my master, who yearned to hear his lady’s name, since he might not hear her voice. I determined they should come about as they pleased for me; and though it was a tiresomely slow process, I began to rejoice at length in a faint dawn of its progress: as I thought at first.
林惇小姐在公园和花园里闷闷不乐地走来走去，总是一声不吭，而且几乎总是泪流满面。我猜，她的哥哥把自己关在书堆里，他从不厌倦地打开书，一直模糊地期望着凯瑟琳，悔改她的行为，会主动请求宽恕，寻求和解，她顽强地禁食，在也许，埃德加每顿饭都会因为她的缺席而窒息，只有骄傲才阻止他跑到她的脚下；我继续做家务，确信农庄的墙壁上只有一个明智的灵魂，而这个灵魂寄居在我的身体里。我没有向小姐表示哀悼，也没有向我的女主人提出任何劝告。我也没有太注意主人的叹息，他渴望听到他的女士的名字，因为他可能听不到她的声音。我决定他们应该按照我的意愿来实现。虽然这是一个令人厌烦的缓慢过程，但我终于开始为它的进展的微弱曙光感到高兴：正如我一开始所想的那样。

Mrs. Linton, on the third day, unbarred her door, and having finished the water in her pitcher and decanter, desired a renewed supply, and a basin of gruel, for she believed she was dying. That I set down as a speech meant for Edgar’s ears; I believed no such thing, so I kept it to myself and brought her some tea and dry toast. She ate and drank eagerly, and sank back on her pillow again, clenching her hands and groaning. ‘Oh, I will die,’ she exclaimed, ‘since no one cares anything about me. I wish I had not taken that.’ Then a good while after I heard her murmur, ‘No, I’ll not die he’d be glad he does not love me at all he would never miss me!’
第三天，林惇夫人打开门闩，喝完水罐和醒酒器里的水，想要重新供应，还要一盆稀粥，因为她相信自己快要死了。我把它写成演讲给埃德加听；我不相信这种事，所以我把这件事藏在心里，给她带来了一些茶和干面包。她吃得津津有味，喝得津津有味，又坐回枕头上，双手紧握，呻吟起来。 “哦，我会死的，”她惊呼道，“因为没有人关心我。”我希望我没有接受这个。”过了一会儿，我听到她低声说道，“不，我不会死，他会很高兴他根本不爱我，他永远不会想念我！”

‘Did you want anything, ma’am?’ I inquired, still preserving my external composure, in spite of her ghastly countenance and strange, exaggerated manner.
“您想要什么吗，女士？”我问道，尽管她的面容惨不忍睹，举止怪异而夸张，但我仍然保持着外表的镇定。

‘What is that apathetic being doing?’ she demanded, pushing the thick entangled locks from her wasted face. ‘Has he fallen into a lethargy, or is he dead?’
“那个冷漠的生物在做什么？”她一边问道，一边拨开枯瘦脸上浓密的纠缠的头发。 “他是昏昏欲睡了，还是死了？”

‘Neither,’ replied I; ‘if you mean Mr. Linton. He’s tolerably well, I think, though his studies occupy him rather more than they ought: he is continually among his books, since he has no other society.’
“都不是，”我回答道。 “如果你指的是林惇先生。我认为他还算不错，尽管他的学习比他应有的占据了更多的时间：他一直在他的书本中，因为他没有其他社交活动。

I should not have spoken so if I had known her true condition, but I could not get rid of the notion that she acted a part of her disorder.
如果我知道她的真实情况，我就不应该这么说，但我无法摆脱她的行为是她的疾病的一部分的想法。

‘Among his books!’ she cried, confounded. ‘And I dying! I on the brink of the grave! My God! does he know how I’m altered?’ continued she, staring at her reflection in a mirror hanging against the opposite wall. ‘Is that Catherine Linton? He imagines me in a pet in play, perhaps. Cannot you inform him that it is frightful earnest? Nelly, if it be not too late, as soon as I learn how he feels, I’ll choose between these two: either to starve at once that would be no punishment unless he had a heart or to recover, and leave the country. Are you speaking the truth about him now? Take care. Is he actually so utterly indifferent for my life?’
“在他的书里！”她困惑地喊道。 ‘而我就快死了！我已经濒临坟墓了！我的上帝！他知道我是怎么改变的吗？”她继续说道，盯着挂在对面墙上的镜子里的自己的倒影。 “那是凯瑟琳·林顿吗？”也许他把我想象成一只正在玩耍的宠物。你不能告诉他这是非常认真的吗？耐莉，如果还不算太晚的话，等我了解他的感受后，我会在这两者之间做出选择：要么立即挨饿，除非他有一颗心，否则这不算惩罚；要么康复，然后离开这个国家。你现在说的是关于他的真相吗？小心。他真的对我的生活如此漠不关心吗？

‘Why, ma’am,’ I answered, ‘the master has no idea of your being deranged; and of course he does not fear that you will let yourself die of hunger.’
“为什么，女士，”我回答道，“主人不知道你精神错乱；当然，他并不担心你会饿死。

‘You think not? Cannot you tell him I will?’ she returned. ‘Persuade him! speak of your own mind: say you are certain I will!’
‘你不这么认为吗？你不能告诉他我会的吗？”她回答道。 ‘劝劝他吧！说出你自己的想法：说你确定我会的！

‘No, you forget, Mrs. Linton,’ I suggested, ‘that you have eaten some food with a relish this evening, and to-morrow you will perceive its good effects.’
“不，你忘记了，林惇太太，”我建议道，“今晚你津津有味地吃了一些食物，明天你就会感受到它的好处。”

‘If I were only sure it would kill him,’ she interrupted, ‘I’d kill myself directly! These three awful nights I’ve never closed my lids and oh, I’ve been tormented! I’ve been haunted, Nelly! But I begin to fancy you don’t like me. How strange! I thought, though everybody hated and despised each other, they could not avoid loving me. And they have all turned to enemies in a few hours: they have, I’m positive; the people here. How dreary to meet death, surrounded by their cold faces! Isabella, terrified and repelled, afraid to enter the room, it would be so dreadful to watch Catherine go. And Edgar standing solemnly by to see it over; then offering prayers of thanks to God for restoring peace to his house, and going back to his BOOKS! What in the name of all that feels has he to do with BOOKS, when I am dying?’
“如果我确信这会杀了他，”她打断道，“我会直接自杀！”这三个可怕的夜晚我从来没有合上过眼皮，哦，我一直在折磨！我被鬼缠住了，耐莉！但我开始觉得你不喜欢我。多么奇怪！我想，虽然大家互相憎恨、互相鄙视，但他们却无法避免爱我。几个小时后，他们都变成了敌人：我确信他们已经变成了敌人；这里的人。面对死亡，被他们冰冷的面孔包围，是多么凄凉啊！伊莎贝拉感到害怕和排斥，不敢进入房间，看着凯瑟琳离开真是太可怕了。埃德加庄严地站在旁边看着这一切结束；然后向上帝祈祷，感谢上帝恢复了他家的和平，然后回到他的书本上！当我快要死的时候，他到底和书有什么关系呢？

She could not bear the notion which I had put into her head of Mr. Linton’s philosophical resignation. Tossing about, she increased her feverish bewilderment to madness, and tore the pillow with her teeth; then raising herself up all burning, desired that I would open the window. We were in the middle of winter, the wind blew strong from the north-east, and I objected. Both the expressions flitting over her face, and the changes of her moods, began to alarm me terribly; and brought to my recollection her former illness, and the doctor’s injunction that she should not be crossed. A minute previously she was violent; now, supported on one arm, and not noticing my refusal to obey her, she seemed to find childish diversion in pulling the feathers from the rents she had just made, and ranging them on the sheet according to their different species: her mind had strayed to other associations.
她无法忍受我向她灌输的林惇先生哲学性的听天由命的想法。她翻来覆去，狂热的困惑变得更加疯狂，她用牙齿撕破了枕头。然后浑身发热地站了起来，希望我能打开窗户。当时正值隆冬，东北风刮得很大，我反对。她脸上掠过的表情和情绪的变化都让我感到非常惊慌。让我想起了她以前的病，以及医生不​​准她生气的嘱咐。一分钟前她还很暴力；一分钟前她还很暴力。现在，她用一只手臂支撑着，没有注意到我拒绝服从她，她似乎找到了一种幼稚的消遣，从她刚刚做出的撕裂中拔出羽毛，并根据不同的种类将它们排列在床单上：她的思绪已经偏离了方向。给其他协会。

‘That’s a turkey’s,’ she murmured to herself; ‘and this is a wild duck’s; and this is a pigeon’s. Ah, they put pigeons’ feathers in the pillows no wonder I couldn’t die! Let me take care to throw it on the floor when I lie down. And here is a moor-cock’s; and this I should know it among a thousand it’s a lapwing’s. Bonny bird; wheeling over our heads in the middle of the moor. It wanted to get to its nest, for the clouds had touched the swells, and it felt rain coming. This feather was picked up from the heath, the bird was not shot: we saw its nest in the winter, full of little skeletons. Heathcliff set a trap over it, and the old ones dared not come. I made him promise he’d never shoot a lapwing after that, and he didn’t. Yes, here are more! Did he shoot my lapwings, Nelly? Are they red, any of them? Let me look.’
“那是火鸡的。”她自言自语道。 “这是一只野鸭；这是鸽子的。啊，枕头里放了鸽子毛，怪不得我死不了！让我躺下的时候小心把它扔到地板上。这是一只停泊公鸡的；我应该在一千只田凫中认出这一点。漂亮的鸟儿；在沼泽中央在我们头顶上盘旋。它想要回到自己的巢穴，因为云朵已经触及了海浪，它感觉到要下雨了。这根羽毛是从荒原上捡来的，这只鸟没有被枪杀：我们在冬天看到了它的巢，里面充满了小骷髅。希刺克厉夫在上面设下陷阱，老人们不敢来。我让他保证在那之后他不会射杀田凫，但他没有这么做。是的，这里还有更多！他射杀了我的田凫吗，耐莉？它们是红色的吗？让我看看。'

‘Give over with that baby-work!’ I interrupted, dragging the pillow away, and turning the holes towards the mattress, for she was removing its contents by handfuls. ‘Lie down and shut your eyes: you’re wandering. There’s a mess! The down is flying about like snow.’
“放弃那个照顾孩子的工作吧！”我打断道，把枕头拖开，把洞转向床垫，因为她正抓着一把把里面的东西拿出来。 ‘躺下，闭上眼睛：你在徘徊。一团糟！绒毛像雪一样飞舞。

I went here and there collecting it.
我到处收集它。

‘I see in you, Nelly,’ she continued dreamily, ‘an aged woman: you have grey hair and bent shoulders. This bed is the fairy cave under Penistone crags, and you are gathering elf-bolts to hurt our heifers; pretending, while I am near, that they are only locks of wool. That’s what you’ll come to fifty years hence: I know you are not so now. I’m not wandering: you’re mistaken, or else I should believe you really WERE that withered hag, and I should think I WAS under Penistone Crags; and I’m conscious it’s night, and there are two candles on the table making the black press shine like jet.’
“耐莉，我在你身上看到了一位上了年纪的女人，耐莉，”她继续说道，“你有着灰色的头发和弯曲的肩膀。这张床是佩尼斯通峭壁下的仙女洞穴，而你正在收集精灵螺栓来伤害我们的小母牛；当我在附近时，假装它们只是一缕羊毛。这就是五十年后你会遇到的情况：我知道你现在不是这样了。我不是在徘徊：你错了，否则我应该相信你真的是那个枯萎的女巫，我应该认为我在佩尼斯通峭壁下面；我意识到现在是晚上，桌子上有两根蜡烛，使黑色的印刷机像黑玉一样闪闪发光。

‘The black press? where is that?’ I asked. ‘You are talking in your sleep!’
‘黑媒体？那是哪里？”我问道。 “你在说梦话！”

‘It’s against the wall, as it always is,’ she replied. ‘It DOES appear odd I see a face in it!’
“它靠墙，一如既往，”她回答道。 “我在里面看到一张脸，这确实很奇怪！”

‘There’s no press in the room, and never was,’ said I, resuming my seat, and looping up the curtain that I might watch her.
“房间里没有新闻，从来没有，”我说，回到座位上，拉上窗帘以便我可以看到她。

‘Don’t YOU see that face?’ she inquired, gazing earnestly at the mirror.
“你没看到那张脸吗？”她认真地看着镜子问道。

And say what I could, I was incapable of making her comprehend it to be her own; so I rose and covered it with a shawl.
尽我所能，我无法让她明白这是她自己的；于是我站起来，用披肩盖住它。

‘It’s behind there still!’ she pursued, anxiously. ‘And it stirred. Who is it? I hope it will not come out when you are gone! Oh! Nelly, the room is haunted! I’m afraid of being alone!’
“它还在后面！”她焦急地追问。 ‘然后它就动起来了。是谁？我希望你走后它不会出现！哦！耐莉，房间里闹鬼了！我害怕独自一人！

I took her hand in mine, and bid her be composed; for a succession of shudders convulsed her frame, and she would keep straining her gaze towards the glass.
我握住她的手，嘱咐她要镇定下来。因为一连串的颤抖使她的身体抽搐，她总是把目光集中在玻璃上。

‘There’s nobody here!’ I insisted. ‘It was YOURSELF, Mrs. Linton: you knew it a while since.’
“这里没有人！”我坚持道。 “那是你自己，林惇夫人：你很久以前就知道了。”

‘Myself!’ she gasped, ‘and the clock is striking twelve! It’s true, then! that’s dreadful!’
“我自己！”她喘着气说，“时钟已经敲十二点了！”那么，这是真的！那太可怕了！

Her fingers clutched the clothes, and gathered them over her eyes. I attempted to steal to the door with an intention of calling her husband; but I was summoned back by a piercing shriek the shawl had dropped from the frame.
她的手指抓住了衣服，将它们遮住了眼睛。我试图偷偷溜到门口，打算给她丈夫打电话；但披肩从框架上掉下来的一声刺耳的尖叫声把我惊醒了。

‘Why, what is the matter?’ cried I. ‘Who is coward now? Wake up! That is the glass the mirror, Mrs. Linton; and you see yourself in it, and there am I too by your side.’
“怎么了，出了什么事？”我喊道，“现在谁是胆小鬼？醒来！那是玻璃，镜子，林惇太太；你会在其中看到自己，而我也在你身边。”

Trembling and bewildered, she held me fast, but the horror gradually passed from her countenance; its paleness gave place to a glow of shame.
她浑身颤抖，不知所措，紧紧地抱住我，但她脸上的恐惧渐渐消失了。脸色苍白，取而代之的是羞愧的光芒。

‘Oh, dear! I thought I was at home,’ she sighed. ‘I thought I was lying in my chamber at Wuthering Heights. Because I’m weak, my brain got confused, and I screamed unconsciously. Don’t say anything; but stay with me. I dread sleeping: my dreams appal me.’
'哦亲爱的！我以为我在家。”她叹了口气。 “我以为我躺在呼啸山庄的房间里。因为身体虚弱，我的大脑一片混乱，我不自觉地尖叫起来。什么也别说；但请留在我身边。我害怕睡觉：我的梦让我感到恐惧。

‘A sound sleep would do you good, ma’am,’ I answered: ‘and I hope this suffering will prevent your trying starving again.’
“睡个好觉对你有好处，女士，”我回答道，“我希望这种痛苦能阻止你再次挨饿。”

‘Oh, if I were but in my own bed in the old house!’ she went on bitterly, wringing her hands. ‘And that wind sounding in the firs by the lattice. Do let me feel it it comes straight down the moor do let me have one breath!’ To pacify her I held the casement ajar a few seconds. A cold blast rushed through; I closed it, and returned to my post. She lay still now, her face bathed in tears. Exhaustion of body had entirely subdued her spirit: our fiery Catherine was no better than a wailing child.
“哦，要是我在老房子里自己的床上就好了！”她绞着双手，痛苦地继续说道。 ‘风在格子旁的冷杉中吹来。请让我感觉到它是直接从荒原上下来的，请让我喘口气！”为了安抚她，我将窗扉半开几秒钟。一阵寒风袭来；我关闭了它，然后回到了我的岗位。她现在一动不动地躺着，脸上挂满了泪水。身体的疲惫完全压垮了她的精神：我们火热的凯瑟琳并不比一个哭泣的孩子好多少。

‘How long is it since I shut myself in here?’ she asked, suddenly reviving.
“我把自己关在这里多久了？”她突然苏醒过来问道。

‘It was Monday evening,’ I replied, ‘and this is Thursday night, or rather Friday morning, at present.’
“那是星期一晚上，”我回答道，“现在是星期四晚上，或者更确切地说，现在是星期五早上。”

‘What! of the same week?’ she exclaimed. ‘Only that brief time?’
'什么！ “同一周？”她惊呼道。 “只有那么短暂的时间吗？”

‘Long enough to live on nothing but cold water and ill-temper,’ observed I.
“足够长的时间，只靠冷水和坏脾气就能活下去。”我说。

‘Well, it seems a weary number of hours,’ she muttered doubtfully: ‘it must be more. I remember being in the parlour after they had quarrelled, and Edgar being cruelly provoking, and me running into this room desperate. As soon as ever I had barred the door, utter blackness overwhelmed me, and I fell on the floor. I couldn’t explain to Edgar how certain I felt of having a fit, or going raging mad, if he persisted in teasing me! I had no command of tongue, or brain, and he did not guess my agony, perhaps: it barely left me sense to try to escape from him and his voice. Before I recovered sufficiently to see and hear, it began to be dawn, and, Nelly, I’ll tell you what I thought, and what has kept recurring and recurring till I feared for my reason. I thought as I lay there, with my head against that table leg, and my eyes dimly discerning the grey square of the window, that I was enclosed in the oak-panelled bed at home; and my heart ached with some great grief which, just waking, I could not recollect. I pondered, and worried myself to discover what it could be, and, most strangely, the whole last seven years of my life grew a blank! I did not recall that they had been at all. I was a child; my father was just buried, and my misery arose from the separation that Hindley had ordered between me and Heathcliff. I was laid alone, for the first time; and, rousing from a dismal doze after a night of weeping, I lifted my hand to push the panels aside: it struck the table-top! I swept it along the carpet, and then memory burst in: my late anguish was swallowed in a paroxysm of despair. I cannot say why I felt so wildly wretched: it must have been temporary derangement; for there is scarcely cause. But, supposing at twelve years old I had been wrenched from the Heights, and every early association, and my all in all, as Heathcliff was at that time, and been converted at a stroke into Mrs. Linton, the lady of Thrushcross Grange, and the wife of a stranger: an exile, and outcast, thenceforth, from what had been my world. You may fancy a glimpse of the abyss where I grovelled! Shake your head as you will, Nelly, you have helped to unsettle me! You should have spoken to Edgar, indeed you should, and compelled him to leave me quiet! Oh, I’m burning! I wish I were out of doors! I wish I were a girl again, half savage and hardy, and free; and laughing at injuries, not maddening under them! Why am I so changed? why does my blood rush into a hell of tumult at a few words? I’m sure I should be myself were I once among the heather on those hills. Open the window again wide: fasten it open! Quick, why don’t you move?’
“嗯，这几个小时似乎令人疲惫不堪，”她怀疑地嘀咕道，“肯定还要更多。”我记得他们吵架后在客厅里，埃德加残酷地挑衅，我绝望地跑进这个房间。当我关上门时，完全的黑暗淹没了我，我跌倒在地板上。我无法向埃德加解释，如果他坚持取笑我，我一定会感到一阵痉挛，或者发疯！我无法控制舌头或大脑，也许他也猜不到我的痛苦：我几乎没有意识试图逃离他和他的声音。还没等我恢复到足以看清和听清的程度，天就开始亮了，耐莉，我会告诉你我的想法，以及一直重复出现的事情，直到我为自己的理由感到恐惧。当我躺在那里，头靠在桌腿上，眼睛模糊地辨认着窗户的灰色方块时，我想我被关在家里的橡木镶板床上；我的心因某种巨大的悲伤而疼痛，刚醒来时，我无法回忆起这种悲伤。我沉思着，担心自己会发现它可能是什么，最奇怪的是，我生命的最后七年变得一片空白！我根本不记得他们曾经去过。我曾经是小孩;我的父亲刚刚下葬，辛德雷下令将我和希刺克厉夫分开，这让我感到痛苦。我第一次独自一人躺在床上；经过一夜的哭泣，我从昏昏欲睡的睡梦中醒来，抬起手将面板推到一边：它击中了桌面！我把它扫过地毯，然后记忆突然涌入：我迟来的痛苦被一阵绝望吞噬。我说不出为什么我感到如此痛苦：这一定是暂时的精神错乱；这可能是暂时的。因为几乎没有理由。 但是，假设我在十二岁时就被从高地、所有早期的交往以及我的一切中夺走，就像当时的希刺克厉夫一样，一下子就变成了林惇太太，画眉田庄的女士，和一个陌生人的妻子：从那时起，我就被放逐了，被遗弃了，离开了我的世界。你可能会想一睹我卑躬屈膝的深渊！不管你怎么摇头，耐莉，你让我感到不安！你应该和埃德加谈谈，确实应该，并强迫他让我安静！哦，我着火了！我希望我在户外！我希望我又是一个女孩，半野蛮、坚强、自由；嘲笑受伤，而不是在受伤下发疯！为什么我的变化这么大？为什么我的血液会因为几句话而沸腾起来？我确信，如果我曾经置身于那些山上的石南丛中，我就应该做我自己。再次将窗户打开：将其打开！快点，你怎么还不动？’

‘Because I won’t give you your death of cold,’ I answered.
“因为我不会让你冻死。”我回答道。

‘You won’t give me a chance of life, you mean,’ she said, sullenly. ‘However, I’m not helpless yet; I’ll open it myself.’
“你的意思是，你不会给我活命的机会，”她阴沉地说。 '然而，我还没有无助；我自己来打开。

And sliding from the bed before I could hinder her, she crossed the room, walking very uncertainly, threw it back, and bent out, careless of the frosty air that cut about her shoulders as keen as a knife. I entreated, and finally attempted to force her to retire. But I soon found her delirious strength much surpassed mine (she was delirious, I became convinced by her subsequent actions and ravings). There was no moon, and everything beneath lay in misty darkness: not a light gleamed from any house, far or near all had been extinguished long ago: and those at Wuthering Heights were never visible still she asserted she caught their shining.
在我阻止她之前，她从床上滑下来，摇摇晃晃地穿过房间，把床扔了回来，弯下腰，全然不顾寒冷的空气像刀子一样刺痛她的肩膀。我苦苦哀求，最后试图强迫她退休。但我很快就发现她的神志强度远远超过了我（她神志不清，我被她后来的行为和胡言乱语说服了）。没有月亮，下面的一切都笼罩在迷蒙的黑暗中：任何房子都没有发出一丝光亮，无论远近，所有的一切都早已熄灭了：而那些在呼啸山庄的人却永远看不见，但她声称她捕捉到了它们的光芒。

‘Look!’ she cried eagerly, ‘that’s my room with the candle in it, and the trees swaying before it; and the other candle is in Joseph’s garret. Joseph sits up late, doesn’t he? He’s waiting till I come home that he may lock the gate. Well, he’ll wait a while yet. It’s a rough journey, and a sad heart to travel it; and we must pass by Gimmerton Kirk to go that journey! We’ve braved its ghosts often together, and dared each other to stand among the graves and ask them to come. But, Heathcliff, if I dare you now, will you venture? If you do, I’ll keep you. I’ll not lie there by myself: they may bury me twelve feet deep, and throw the church down over me, but I won’t rest till you are with me. I never will!’
“看！”她急切地喊道，“那是我的房间，里面点着蜡烛，前面的树木在摇曳；另一根蜡烛在约瑟夫的阁楼里。约瑟夫熬夜很晚，不是吗？他等着我回家，然后锁上门。好吧，他还要等一段时间。这是一段坎坷的旅程，走在路上是一颗悲伤的心；我们必须经过吉默顿柯克才能踏上这段旅程！我们经常一起勇敢地面对它的鬼魂，并互相鼓励对方站在坟墓中邀请他们过来。但是，希刺克厉夫，如果我现在向你挑战，你愿意冒险吗？如果你这样做，我会保留你。我不会独自躺在那里：他们可能会把我埋十二英尺深，把教堂扔到我身上，但除非你和我在一起，否则我不会休息。我永远不会！

She paused, and resumed with a strange smile. ‘He’s considering he’d rather I’d come to him! Find a way, then! not through that kirkyard. You are slow! Be content, you always followed me!’
她停顿了一下，然后带着奇怪的微笑继续说道。 ‘他正在考虑他宁愿我来找他！那就想办法吧！不经过那个教堂场。你太慢了！知足吧，你一直跟着我！”

Perceiving it vain to argue against her insanity, I was planning how I could reach something to wrap about her, without quitting my hold of herself (for I could not trust her alone by the gaping lattice), when, to my consternation, I heard the rattle of the door-handle, and Mr. Linton entered. He had only then come from the library; and, in passing through the lobby, had noticed our talking and been attracted by curiosity, or fear, to examine what it signified, at that late hour.
我意识到与她的疯狂争论是徒劳的，我正计划着如何能找到一些东西来包裹她，同时又不放弃对自己的控制（因为我不能通过张开的格子独自相信她），这时，令我惊愕的是，我听到了门把手嘎嘎作响，林惇先生走了进来。那时他才从图书馆出来。在经过大厅时，他注意到了我们的谈话，并被好奇心或恐惧所吸引，想在这么晚的时候检查一下这意味着什么。

‘Oh, sir!’ I cried, checking the exclamation risen to his lips at the sight which met him, and the bleak atmosphere of the chamber. ‘My poor mistress is ill, and she quite masters me: I cannot manage her at all; pray, come and persuade her to go to bed. Forget your anger, for she’s hard to guide any way but her own.’
“噢，先生！”我喊道，同时抑制住他看到眼前的景象以及房间里阴郁的气氛时发出的惊叹声。 “我可怜的女主人病了，她完全控制了我：我根本无法控制她；祈祷吧，过来劝她去睡觉吧。忘记你的愤怒吧，因为除了她自己的方式之外，她很难以任何方式引导。

‘Catherine ill?’ he said, hastening to us. ‘Shut the window, Ellen! Catherine! why ‘
“凯瑟琳病了？”他急忙向我们走来。 “关上窗户，艾伦！凯瑟琳！为什么 '

He was silent. The haggardness of Mrs. Linton’s appearance smote him speechless, and he could only glance from her to me in horrified astonishment.
他沉默了。林顿夫人憔悴的样子让他说不出话来，他只能惊恐地从她身上扫到我身上。

‘She’s been fretting here,’ I continued, ‘and eating scarcely anything, and never complaining: she would admit none of us till this evening, and so we couldn’t inform you of her state, as we were not aware of it ourselves; but it is nothing.’
“她在这里一直很烦躁，”我继续说，“几乎不吃任何东西，也从不抱怨：直到今天晚上她才允许我们中的任何一个人进来，所以我们不能告诉你她的状况，因为我们自己也不知道。” ;但这没什么。

I felt I uttered my explanations awkwardly; the master frowned. ‘It is nothing, is it, Ellen Dean?’ he said sternly. ‘You shall account more clearly for keeping me ignorant of this!’ And he took his wife in his arms, and looked at her with anguish.
我觉得我的解释很尴尬；主人皱起了眉头。 “没什么，是吗，艾伦·迪恩？”他严厉地说。 “你应该更清楚地解释为什么我不知道这件事！”他把妻子抱在怀里，痛苦地看着她。

At first she gave him no glance of recognition: he was invisible to her abstracted gaze. The delirium was not fixed, however; having weaned her eyes from contemplating the outer darkness, by degrees she centred her attention on him, and discovered who it was that held her.
起初，她没有看他一眼，表示认出他：在她心不在焉的目光中，他是看不见的。然而，谵妄并没有得到解决。当她的眼睛不再思考外面的黑暗时，她的注意力逐渐集中在他身上，并发现了抱着她的人是谁。

‘Ah! you are come, are you, Edgar Linton?’ she said, with angry animation. ‘You are one of those things that are ever found when least wanted, and when you are wanted, never! I suppose we shall have plenty of lamentations now I see we shall but they can’t keep me from my narrow home out yonder: my resting-place, where I’m bound before spring is over! There it is: not among the Lintons, mind, under the chapel-roof, but in the open air, with a head-stone; and you may please yourself whether you go to them or come to me!’
'啊！你来了，是吗，埃德加·林惇？”她生气地说。 “你是那些在最不需要的时候被发现的东西之一，而当你被需要的时候，却永远找不到！”我想我们现在会有很多哀悼，我想我们会的，但它们不能阻止我离开我那狭窄的家：我的安息之地，在春天结束之前我将被束缚的地方！它就在那里：注意，不是在林惇家族的教堂屋顶下，而是在露天，有一块墓碑；无论你去找他们还是来找我，你都可以随心所欲！

‘Catherine, what have you done?’ commenced the master. ‘Am I nothing to you any more? Do you love that wretch Heath ‘
“凯瑟琳，你做了什么？”主人问道。 ‘我对你来说已经什么都不是了吗？你爱那个可怜的希斯吗？

‘Hush!’ cried Mrs. Linton. ‘Hush, this moment! You mention that name and I end the matter instantly by a spring from the window! What you touch at present you may have; but my soul will be on that hill-top before you lay hands on me again. I don’t want you, Edgar: I’m past wanting you. Return to your books. I’m glad you possess a consolation, for all you had in me is gone.’
“嘘！”林惇太太喊道。 ‘嘘，此时此刻！你一提到这个名字，我就用窗外的弹簧来结束这件事！你目前所接触的，你可能拥有；但在你再次把手放在我身上之前，我的灵魂将在那个山顶上。我不需要你，埃德加：我已经不再想要你了。回到你的书本上。我很高兴你能得到安慰，因为你在我身上所拥有的一切都消失了。”

‘Her mind wanders, sir,’ I interposed. ‘She has been talking nonsense the whole evening; but let her have quiet, and proper attendance, and she’ll rally. Hereafter, we must be cautious how we vex her.’
“她走神了，先生，”我插话道。 “她整个晚上都在胡言乱语；但只要她安静、适当地出席，她就会振作起来。今后，我们必须小心如何惹恼她。”

‘I desire no further advice from you,’ answered Mr. Linton. ‘You knew your mistress’s nature, and you encouraged me to harass her. And not to give me one hint of how she has been these three days! It was heartless! Months of sickness could not cause such a change!’
“我不需要你进一步的建议，”林惇先生回答道。 “你知道你情妇的本性，你还怂恿我骚扰她。也不让我知道她这三天过得怎么样！真是没心没肺啊！几个月的疾病不可能造成这样的变化！”

I began to defend myself, thinking it too bad to be blamed for another’s wicked waywardness. ‘I knew Mrs. Linton’s nature to be headstrong and domineering,’ cried I: ‘but I didn’t know that you wished to foster her fierce temper! I didn’t know that, to humour her, I should wink at Mr. Heathcliff. I performed the duty of a faithful servant in telling you, and I have got a faithful servant’s wages! Well, it will teach me to be careful next time. Next time you may gather intelligence for yourself!’
我开始为自己辩护，认为因为别人的邪恶任性而受到指责太糟糕了。 “我知道林惇太太性子刚愎自用，”我喊道，“却不知道你想助长她的脾气！”我不知道，为了迎合她，我应该向希刺克厉夫先生使眼色。我告诉你们是尽了忠仆的职责，我也得到了忠仆的工资！嗯，它会教我下次要小心。下次你可以自己收集情报！”

‘The next time you bring a tale to me you shall quit my service, Ellen Dean,’ he replied.
“下次你给我带来故事时，你就应该辞去我的职务，艾伦·迪恩，”他回答道。

‘You’d rather hear nothing about it, I suppose, then, Mr. Linton?’ said I. ‘Heathcliff has your permission to come a-courting to Miss, and to drop in at every opportunity your absence offers, on purpose to poison the mistress against you?’
“那么，林惇先生，我想你宁愿听不到这件事吧？”我说道。毒害情妇来对付你？

Confused as Catherine was, her wits were alert at applying our conversation.
尽管凯瑟琳很困惑，但她的智慧很敏锐地应用了我们的对话。

‘Ah! Nelly has played traitor,’ she exclaimed, passionately. ‘Nelly is my hidden enemy. You witch! So you do seek elf-bolts to hurt us! Let me go, and I’ll make her rue! I’ll make her howl a recantation!’
'啊！耐莉扮演了叛徒，”她热情地喊道。 “耐莉是我隐藏的敌人。你这个女巫！所以你确实在寻找精灵螺栓来伤害我们！放开我，我会让她后悔的！我会让她嚎叫认输！

A maniac’s fury kindled under her brows; she struggled desperately to disengage herself from Linton’s arms. I felt no inclination to tarry the event; and, resolving to seek medical aid on my own responsibility, I quitted the chamber.
她眉宇间燃起狂怒；她拼命挣扎，想挣脱林惇的怀抱。我不想拖延这次​​活动。我决定自行负责寻求医疗救助，然后退出了密室。

In passing the garden to reach the road, at a place where a bridle hook is driven into the wall, I saw something white moved irregularly, evidently by another agent than the wind. Notwithstanding my hurry, I stayed to examine it, lest ever after I should have the conviction impressed on my imagination that it was a creature of the other world. My surprise and perplexity were great on discovering, by touch more than vision, Miss Isabella’s springer, Fanny, suspended by a handkerchief, and nearly at its last gasp. I quickly released the animal, and lifted it into the garden. I had seen it follow its mistress up-stairs when she went to bed; and wondered much how it could have got out there, and what mischievous person had treated it so. While untying the knot round the hook, it seemed to me that I repeatedly caught the beat of horses’ feet galloping at some distance; but there were such a number of things to occupy my reflections that I hardly gave the circumstance a thought: though it was a strange sound, in that place, at two o’clock in the morning.
穿过花园到达大路时，在一个缰绳钩入墙壁的地方，我看到有一个白色的东西不规则地移动，显然是由风以外的另一种力量驱动的。尽管我很匆忙，但我还是留下来检查它，以免在我的想象中留下深刻的印象，那就是它是另一个世界的生物。当我通过触摸而不是视觉发现伊莎贝拉小姐的跳马，范妮时，我感到非常惊讶和困惑，它被手帕悬在空中，几乎是最后一口气。我迅速放开那只动物，把它抬到花园里。当女主人上床睡觉时，我看见它跟着她上了楼。我很想知道它是怎么跑到那里去的，又是哪个淘气的人这样对待它的。当我解开钩子上的结时，我似乎不断听到远处有马匹驰骋的脚步声；但有太多的事情占据了我的思考，我几乎没有去想这个情况：尽管在那个地方，凌晨两点，那声音很奇怪。

Mr. Kenneth was fortunately just issuing from his house to see a patient in the village as I came up the street; and my account of Catherine Linton’s malady induced him to accompany me back immediately. He was a plain rough man; and he made no scruple to speak his doubts of her surviving this second attack; unless she were more submissive to his directions than she had shown herself before.
幸运的是，当我沿着街道走来时，肯尼思先生正从他家出去看望村里的一位病人。我对凯瑟琳·林顿病情的描述促使他立即陪我回去。他是个粗鲁的人。他毫不犹豫地表达了他对她能否在第二次袭击中幸存的怀疑。除非她比以前更服从他的指示。

‘Nelly Dean,’ said he, ‘I can’t help fancying there’s an extra cause for this. What has there been to do at the Grange? We’ve odd reports up here. A stout, hearty lass like Catherine does not fall ill for a trifle; and that sort of people should not either. It’s hard work bringing them through fevers, and such things. How did it begin?’
“耐莉·迪恩，”他说，“我忍不住想这肯定有一个额外的原因。”农庄有什么好玩的？我们这里有奇怪的报告。像凯瑟琳这样身材健壮、心地善良的姑娘，不会因为一点小事就生病。这类人也不应该。让他们度过发烧之类的困难是一项艰苦的工作。它是怎么开始的？

‘The master will inform you,’ I answered; ‘but you are acquainted with the Earnshaws’ violent dispositions, and Mrs. Linton caps them all. I may say this; it commenced in a quarrel. She was struck during a tempest of passion with a kind of fit. That’s her account, at least: for she flew off in the height of it, and locked herself up. Afterwards, she refused to eat, and now she alternately raves and remains in a half dream; knowing those about her, but having her mind filled with all sorts of strange ideas and illusions.’
“主人会通知你的。”我回答道。 “但是你很熟悉恩萧一家的暴力倾向，而林惇夫人则将其概括为最严重的。”我可以这么说；事情是从一场争吵开始的。她在一阵激情的风暴中突然感到一阵痉挛。至少这是她的说法：因为她在高处飞走了，然后把自己锁了起来。之后，她拒绝进食，现在她时而胡言乱语，时而处于半梦半醒的状态。了解她的一切，但她的脑子里充满了各种奇怪的想法和幻想。

‘Mr. Linton will be sorry?’ observed Kenneth, interrogatively.
'先生。林惇会后悔吗？”肯尼斯疑惑地说道。

‘ Sorry? he’ll break his heart should anything happen!’ I replied. ‘Don’t alarm him more than necessary.’
' 对不起？如果发生任何事情，他会伤心的！”我回答道。 “除非必要，不要惊吓他。”

‘Well, I told him to beware,’ said my companion; ‘and he must bide the consequences of neglecting my warning! Hasn’t he been intimate with Mr. Heathcliff lately?’
“好吧，我告诉他要小心，”我的同伴说。 “他必须承受忽视我警告的后果！”他最近不是和希刺克厉夫先生关系很亲密吗？

‘Heathcliff frequently visits at the Grange,’ answered I, ‘though more on the strength of the mistress having known him when a boy, than because the master likes his company. At present he’s discharged from the trouble of calling; owing to some presumptuous aspirations after Miss Linton which he manifested. I hardly think he’ll be taken in again.’
“希刺克厉夫经常来农庄，”我回答道，“虽然更多的是因为女主人在他还是个孩子的时候就认识他，而不是因为主人喜欢他的陪伴。现在他已经摆脱了打电话的麻烦了。由于他对林惇小姐表现出了一些自以为是的愿望。我几乎不认为他会再次被接纳。

‘And does Miss Linton turn a cold shoulder on him?’ was the doctor’s next question.
“林惇小姐对他冷淡吗？”医生的下一个问题是。

‘I’m not in her confidence,’ returned I, reluctant to continue the subject.
“我没有得到她的信任，”我回答道，不愿意继续这个话题。

‘No, she’s a sly one,’ he remarked, shaking his head. ‘She keeps her own counsel! But she’s a real little fool. I have it from good authority that last night (and a pretty night it was!) she and Heathcliff were walking in the plantation at the back of your house above two hours; and he pressed her not to go in again, but just mount his horse and away with him! My informant said she could only put him off by pledging her word of honour to be prepared on their first meeting after that: when it was to be he didn’t hear; but you urge Mr. Linton to look sharp!’
“不，她是个狡猾的人，”他摇摇头说道。 ‘她保留自己的忠告！但她确实是个小傻瓜。我从可靠的消息来源得知，昨晚（这是一个美好的夜晚！）她和希刺克厉夫在你家后面的种植园里散步了两个多小时。他劝她不要再进去，只要骑上马就跟他走吧！我的线人说，她只能以名誉担保，为他们之后的第一次会面做好准备，以此来推迟他：什么时候他没有听到；什么时候他没有听到；什么时候他没有听到；什么时候他没有听到；什么时候他没有听到。但你敦促林顿先生看起来很敏锐！

This news filled me with fresh fears; I outstripped Kenneth, and ran most of the way back. The little dog was yelping in the garden yet. I spared a minute to open the gate for it, but instead of going to the house door, it coursed up and down snuffing the grass, and would have escaped to the road, had I not seized it and conveyed it in with me. On ascending to Isabella’s room, my suspicions were confirmed: it was empty. Had I been a few hours sooner Mrs. Linton’s illness might have arrested her rash step. But what could be done now? There was a bare possibility of overtaking them if pursued instantly. I could not pursue them, however; and I dared not rouse the family, and fill the place with confusion; still less unfold the business to my master, absorbed as he was in his present calamity, and having no heart to spare for a second grief! I saw nothing for it but to hold my tongue, and suffer matters to take their course; and Kenneth being arrived, I went with a badly composed countenance to announce him. Catherine lay in a troubled sleep: her husband had succeeded in soothing the excess of frenzy; he now hung over her pillow, watching every shade and every change of her painfully expressive features.
这个消息让我充满了新的恐惧。我超过了肯尼斯，并跑了大部分路程回来。花园里的小狗还在吠叫。我花了一分钟时间给它开门，但它并没有走到房门口，而是上下移动，把草都吹灭了，要不是我抓住它并把它带进来，它就会逃到路上了。登上伊莎贝拉的房间后，我的怀疑得到了证实：里面是空的。如果我早几个小时到的话，林惇夫人的病可能会阻止她鲁莽的举动。但现在能做什么呢？如果立即追赶的话，追上他们的可能性微乎其微。然而我无法追赶他们；我不敢惊动全家人，让整个地方一片混乱。更不用说向我的主人透露这件事了，他正沉浸在眼前的灾难中，不忍心再承受第二次悲伤！我别无选择，只能保持沉默，让事情顺其自然。肯尼思到了，我带着不安的表情去宣布他的到来。凯瑟琳躺在床上，睡得很不安稳：她的丈夫成功地平息了过度的狂乱。现在他趴在她的枕头上，注视着她那令人痛苦的表情的每一个阴影和每一个变化。

The doctor, on examining the case for himself, spoke hopefully to him of its having a favourable termination, if we could only preserve around her perfect and constant tranquillity. To me, he signified the threatening danger was not so much death, as permanent alienation of intellect.
医生在亲自检查此案后，满怀希望地对他说，只要我们能够保持她周围完美而持续的平静，事情就会有一个有利的结局。对我来说，他意味着威胁性的危险与其说是死亡，不如说是智力的永久异化。

I did not close my eyes that night, nor did Mr. Linton: indeed, we never went to bed; and the servants were all up long before the usual hour, moving through the house with stealthy tread, and exchanging whispers as they encountered each other in their vocations. Every one was active but Miss Isabella; and they began to remark how sound she slept: her brother, too, asked if she had risen, and seemed impatient for her presence, and hurt that she showed so little anxiety for her sister-in-law. I trembled lest he should send me to call her; but I was spared the pain of being the first proclaimant of her flight. One of the maids, a thoughtless girl, who had been on an early errand to Gimmerton, came panting up-stairs, open-mouthed, and dashed into the chamber, crying: ‘Oh, dear, dear! What mun we have next? Master, master, our young lady ‘
那天晚上我没有闭上眼睛，林惇先生也没有：事实上，我们从未上床睡觉。仆人们在正常时间之前就已经起床了，他们悄悄地在屋子里走动，在工作中遇到彼此时窃窃私语。除了伊莎贝拉小姐，每个人都很活跃。他们开始评论她睡得有多香：她的哥哥也问她是否起床了，而且似乎对她的出现不耐烦，而且让她对她的嫂子表现出如此少的焦虑感到受伤。我颤抖着，生怕他派我去给她打电话。但我免于成为她逃跑的第一个宣告者的痛苦。其中一个女仆，一个粗心的女孩，早早就要去吉默顿办事了，她气喘吁吁地跑上楼，张着嘴，冲进房间，哭喊着：“哦，天哪，天哪！”接下来我们有什么？少爷，少爷，我们的小姐’

‘Hold your noise!’ cried, I hastily, enraged at her clamorous manner.
“别吵了！”我急忙喊道，对她吵闹的态度感到愤怒。

‘Speak lower, Mary What is the matter?’ said Mr. Linton. ‘What ails your young lady?’
“小点声，玛丽，出了什么事？”林惇先生说。 “你的小姐怎么了？”

‘She’s gone, she’s gone! Yon’ Heathcliff’s run off wi’ her!’ gasped the girl.
‘她走了，她走了！ “希刺克厉夫带着她跑了！”女孩喘着气说道。

‘That is not true!’ exclaimed Linton, rising in agitation. ‘It cannot be: how has the idea entered your head? Ellen Dean, go and seek her. It is incredible: it cannot be.’
“这不是真的！”林惇激动地喊道。 “不可能：这个想法是怎么进入你的脑海的？艾伦·迪恩，去找她吧。这太不可思议了：不可能。”

As he spoke he took the servant to the door, and then repeated his demand to know her reasons for such an assertion.
他一边说着，一边把仆人带到了门口，然后再次要求知道她这么说的理由。

‘Why, I met on the road a lad that fetches milk here,’ she stammered, ‘and he asked whether we weren’t in trouble at the Grange. I thought he meant for missis’s sickness, so I answered, yes. Then says he, ‘There’s somebody gone after ‘em, I guess?’ I stared. He saw I knew nought about it, and he told how a gentleman and lady had stopped to have a horse’s shoe fastened at a blacksmith’s shop, two miles out of Gimmerton, not very long after midnight! and how the blacksmith’s lass had got up to spy who they were: she knew them both directly. And she noticed the man Heathcliff it was, she felt certain: nob’dy could mistake him, besides put a sovereign in her father’s hand for payment. The lady had a cloak about her face; but having desired a sup of water, while she drank it fell back, and she saw her very plain. Heathcliff held both bridles as they rode on, and they set their faces from the village, and went as fast as the rough roads would let them. The lass said nothing to her father, but she told it all over Gimmerton this morning.’
“哎呀，我在路上遇到了一个来这里取牛奶的小伙子，”她结结巴巴地说，“他问我们在田庄是不是遇到麻烦了。我以为他的意思是为了小姐的病，所以我回答说，是的。然后他说，“我猜有人在追他们？”我盯着看。他发现我对此一无所知，于是他讲述了一位绅士和一位女士如何在距离吉默顿两英里的铁匠铺停下来固定马蹄铁，当时午夜刚过！铁匠的姑娘是如何站起来窥探他们是谁的：她直接认识他们两个。她注意到了希刺克厉夫这个人，她确信：除了把一枚金币交到她父亲手中作为付款之外，没有人会误会他。这位女士脸上蒙着一件斗篷。但当她想喝点水时，水又倒了下去，她看到她的样子很平淡。他们骑马前行时，希刺克厉夫牵着缰绳，他们把脸转向村庄，在崎岖不平的道路上尽可能快地前行。这个女孩什么也没对她父亲说，但今天早上她把这一切都告诉了吉默顿。”

I ran and peeped, for form’s sake, into Isabella’s room; confirming, when I returned, the servant’s statement. Mr. Linton had resumed his seat by the bed; on my re-entrance, he raised his eyes, read the meaning of my blank aspect, and dropped them without giving an order, or uttering a word.
我跑过去，为了形式而往伊莎贝拉的房间里偷看。当我回来时，证实了仆人的说法。林顿先生又回到了床边的座位上。当我重新进来时，他抬起眼睛，解读了我茫然的表情的含义，然后又放下了眼睛，没有发出任何命令，也没有说出一句话。

‘Are we to try any measures for overtaking and bringing her back,’ I inquired. ‘How should we do?’
“我们是否要尝试采取任何措施来超越并把她带回来？”我问道。 “我们该怎么办？”

‘She went of her own accord,’ answered the master; ‘she had a right to go if she pleased. Trouble me no more about her. Hereafter she is only my sister in name: not because I disown her, but because she has disowned me.’
“她是自愿去的，”主人回答道。 “如果她愿意的话，她有权走。别再为她烦恼了。从此以后，她只是我名义上的妹妹：不是因为我不认她，而是因为她不认我了。

And that was all he said on the subject: he did not make single inquiry further, or mention her in any way, except directing me to send what property she had in the house to her fresh home, wherever it was, when I knew it.
这就是他就这个问题所说的一切：他没有进一步询问，也没有以任何方式提及她，除了指示我将她在房子里拥有的财产送到她的新家，无论它在哪里，当我知道的时候。

Chapter XIII
第十三章

FOR two months the fugitives remained absent; in those two months, Mrs. Linton encountered and conquered the worst shock of what was denominated a brain fever. No mother could have nursed an only child more devotedly than Edgar tended her. Day and night he was watching, and patiently enduring all the annoyances that irritable nerves and a shaken reason could inflict; and, though Kenneth remarked that what he saved from the grave would only recompense his care by forming the source of constant future anxiety in fact, that his health and strength were being sacrificed to preserve a mere ruin of humanity he knew no limits in gratitude and joy when Catherine’s life was declared out of danger; and hour after hour he would sit beside her, tracing the gradual return to bodily health, and flattering his too sanguine hopes with the illusion that her mind would settle back to its right balance also, and she would soon be entirely her former self.
逃犯已经失踪两个月了；在那两个月里，林惇夫人遭遇并战胜了所谓的脑热症最严重的打击。没有哪个母亲能够像埃德加那样全心全意地照顾独生子。他日日夜夜地注视着，耐心地忍受着烦躁的神经和动摇的理智可能带来的所有烦恼。肯尼思说，他从坟墓中拯救出来的东西实际上只会成为未来持续焦虑的根源，从而补偿他的照顾，他的健康和力量正在被牺牲，以保护人类的毁灭，但他知道无限的感激和感激之情。当凯瑟琳的生命被宣布脱离危险时的喜悦；他会一小时又一小时地坐在她身边，追踪身体逐渐恢复健康的情况，并用幻想来满足他过于乐观的希望，认为她的思想也会恢复到正常的平衡，她很快就会完全恢复原来的样子。

The first time she left her chamber was at the commencement of the following March. Mr. Linton had put on her pillow, in the morning, a handful of golden crocuses; her eye, long stranger to any gleam of pleasure, caught them in waking, and shone delighted as she gathered them eagerly together.
她第一次离开她的房间是在第二年三月初。早上，林惇先生在她的枕头上放了一把金色的番红花。她的眼睛，长期以来对任何快乐的光芒都陌生，在他们醒来时，当她急切地把他们聚集在一起时，眼睛里闪烁着喜悦的光芒。

‘These are the earliest flowers at the Heights,’ she exclaimed. ‘They remind me of soft thaw winds, and warm sunshine, and nearly melted snow. Edgar, is there not a south wind, and is not the snow almost gone?’
“这些是高地最早的花朵，”她惊呼道。 “它们让我想起柔和的解冻风、温暖的阳光和几乎融化的雪。埃德加，不是有南风吗？雪不是快消失了吗？

‘The snow is quite gone down here, darling,’ replied her husband; ‘and I only see two white spots on the whole range of moors: the sky is blue, and the larks are singing, and the becks and brooks are all brim full. Catherine, last spring at this time, I was longing to have you under this roof; now, I wish you were a mile or two up those hills: the air blows so sweetly, I feel that it would cure you.’
“亲爱的，这里的雪已经完全化尽了，”她的丈夫回答道。 “我只看到整个荒原上有两个白点：天空是蓝色的，百灵鸟在歌唱，小溪和小溪都满溢着。凯瑟琳，去年春天的这个时候，我渴望有你在这个屋檐下；现在，我希望你在那些山上一两英里：空气吹得如此甜美，我觉得它会治愈你。

‘I shall never be there but once more,’ said the invalid; ‘and then you’ll leave me, and I shall remain for ever. Next spring you’ll long again to have me under this roof, and you’ll look back and think you were happy to-day.’
“我再也不会去那里了，”病人说。 ‘然后你就会离开我，而我将永远留下来。明年春天，你会再次渴望有我在这个屋檐下，当你回首往事时，你会觉得你今天很快乐。

Linton lavished on her the kindest caresses, and tried to cheer her by the fondest words; but, vaguely regarding the flowers, she let the tears collect on her lashes and stream down her cheeks unheeding. We knew she was really better, and, therefore, decided that long confinement to a single place produced much of this despondency, and it might be partially removed by a change of scene. The master told me to light a fire in the many-weeks’ deserted parlour, and to set an easy-chair in the sunshine by the window; and then he brought her down, and she sat a long while enjoying the genial heat, and, as we expected, revived by the objects round her: which, though familiar, were free from the dreary associations investing her hated sick chamber. By evening she seemed greatly exhausted; yet no arguments could persuade her to return to that apartment, and I had to arrange the parlour sofa for her bed, till another room could be prepared. To obviate the fatigue of mounting and descending the stairs, we fitted up this, where you lie at present on the same floor with the parlour; and she was soon strong enough to move from one to the other, leaning on Edgar’s arm. Ah, I thought myself, she might recover, so waited on as she was. And there was double cause to desire it, for on her existence depended that of another: we cherished the hope that in a little while Mr. Linton’s heart would be gladdened, and his lands secured from a stranger’s gripe, by the birth of an heir.
林惇对她给予了最亲切的爱抚，并试图用最亲切的话语让她高兴起来。但是，她模模糊糊地看着那些花，任由泪水积聚在睫毛上，顺着脸颊流下，不予理睬。我们知道她确实好多了，因此我们认为，长期被限制在一个地方会导致这种沮丧，而换个环境可能会部分消除这种沮丧。主人让我在已经荒废了好几个星期的客厅生火，并在窗边放一张安乐椅来晒太阳；然后他把她放下来，她坐了很长一段时间，享受着和煦的温暖，正如我们所料，她被周围的物体苏醒了：这些物体虽然熟悉，但却摆脱了她那令人讨厌的病房的沉闷联想。到了晚上，她显得非常疲惫。然而，没有任何理由说服她回到那间公寓，我不得不把客厅的沙发安排在她的床上，直到另一个房间准备好为止。为了避免上下楼梯的疲劳，我们安装了这个，您现在就躺在与客厅同一层楼；她很快就变得足够强壮，可以从一个地方移到另一个地方，靠在埃德加的手臂上。啊，我自己想，她可能会康复，所以就这样等着吧。渴望它有双重理由，因为她的存在依赖于另一个人的存在：我们怀有这样的希望：不久之后，林惇先生的心会高兴起来，他的土地会因继承人的诞生而免受陌生人的侵害。 。

I should mention that Isabella sent to her brother, some six weeks from her departure, a short note, announcing her marriage with Heathcliff. It appeared dry and cold; but at the bottom was dotted in with pencil an obscure apology, and an entreaty for kind remembrance and reconciliation, if her proceeding had offended him: asserting that she could not help it then, and being done, she had now no power to repeal it. Linton did not reply to this, I believe; and, in a fortnight more, I got a long letter, which I considered odd, coming from the pen of a bride just out of the honeymoon. I’ll read it: for I keep it yet. Any relic of the dead is precious, if they were valued living.
我应该提到，伊莎贝拉在离开大约六周后，给她的兄弟寄了一封简短的便条，宣布她与希刺克厉夫的婚姻。天气显得又干又冷。但在底部用铅笔点缀着一个模糊的道歉，并恳求善意的记忆和和解，如果她的行为冒犯了他：断言当时她无能为力，完成后，她现在没有权力废除它。我相信林惇没有对此作出答复；又过了两周，我收到了一封长信，我觉得这封信很奇怪，是出自一位刚度完蜜月的新娘的笔。我会读它：因为我还保留着它。死者的任何遗物如果在世时得到重视，那么都是珍贵的。

DEAR ELLEN, it begins, I came last night to Wuthering Heights, and heard, for the first time, that Catherine has been, and is yet, very ill. I must not write to her, I suppose, and my brother is either too angry or too distressed to answer what I sent him. Still, I must write to somebody, and the only choice left me is you.
亲爱的艾伦，首先，我昨晚来到呼啸山庄，第一次听说凯瑟琳已经病得很重，而且现在还病得很重。我想我不能给她写信，而我哥哥要么太生气，要么太痛苦，无法回复我寄给他的信。尽管如此，我还是必须写信给某人，而我唯一的选择就是你。

Inform Edgar that I’d give the world to see his face again that my heart returned to Thrushcross Grange in twenty-four hours after I left it, and is there at this moment, full of warm feelings for him, and Catherine! I CAN’T FOLLOW IT THOUGH (these words are underlined) they need not expect me, and they may draw what conclusions they please; taking care, however, to lay nothing at the door of my weak will or deficient affection.
告诉埃德加，我愿意让全世界再次见到他的脸，在我离开画眉田庄二十四小时后，我的心又回到了画眉田庄，此时此刻，我对他和凯瑟琳充满了温暖的感情！我无法遵循它（这些词有下划线），他们不需要期待我，他们可以得出他们喜欢的结论；然而，我要小心，不要让任何事情因为我意志薄弱或缺乏感情而受到影响。

The remainder of the letter is for yourself alone. I want to ask you two questions: the first is, How did you contrive to preserve the common sympathies of human nature when you resided here? I cannot recognise any sentiment which those around share with me.
这封信的其余部分仅供您自己参考。我想问你们两个问题：第一个问题，你们居住在这里的时候，是如何努力保存人性的共同同情心的？我无法识别周围的人与我有什么共同的感受。

The second question I have great interest in; it is this Is Mr. Heathcliff a man? If so, is he mad? And if not, is he a devil? I sha’n’t tell my reasons for making this inquiry; but I beseech you to explain, if you can, what I have married: that is, when you call to see me; and you must call, Ellen, very soon. Don’t write, but come, and bring me something from Edgar.
第二个问题我很感兴趣；这是希刺克厉夫先生是男人吗？如果是这样，他疯了吗？如果不是的话，他是魔鬼吗？我不会告诉我进行这项调查的原因；但如果可以的话，我恳求你解释一下我结婚的原因：也就是说，当你打电话来看我时；艾伦，你必须尽快打电话。别写信了，来吧，给我带点埃德加的东西来。

Now, you shall hear how I have been received in my new home, as I am led to imagine the Heights will be. It is to amuse myself that I dwell on such subjects as the lack of external comforts: they never occupy my thoughts, except at the moment when I miss them. I should laugh and dance for joy, if I found their absence was the total of my miseries, and the rest was an unnatural dream!
现在，您将听到我在新家受到的欢迎，正如我想象的那样。我只是为了自娱自乐，才会沉思诸如缺乏外在舒适之类的话题：它们从来不会占据我的思绪，除非在我想念它们的那一刻。如果我发现他们的缺席是我全部的痛苦，而剩下的只是一场不自然的梦，我应该高兴地大笑、跳舞！

The sun set behind the Grange as we turned on to the moors; by that, I judged it to be six o’clock; and my companion halted half an hour, to inspect the park, and the gardens, and, probably, the place itself, as well as he could; so it was dark when we dismounted in the paved yard of the farm-house, and your old fellow-servant, Joseph, issued out to receive us by the light of a dip candle. He did it with a courtesy that redounded to his credit. His first act was to elevate his torch to a level with my face, squint malignantly, project his under-lip, and turn away. Then he took the two horses, and led them into the stables; reappearing for the purpose of locking the outer gate, as if we lived in an ancient castle.
当我们转向荒原时，太阳已经落到了农庄后面。由此，我判断已经是六点了；我的同伴停了半个小时，尽可能地检查公园和花园，也许还有这个地方本身。因此，当我们在农舍铺好的院子里下马时，天已经黑了，你的老仆人约瑟夫在烛光下出来迎接我们。他以礼貌的态度做到了这一点，这为他赢得了声誉。他的第一个动作就是把手电筒举到与我脸齐平的位置，恶狠狠地眯起眼睛，伸出下唇，然后转身走开。然后他把两匹马牵进马厩。重新出现是为了锁住外门，就好像我们住在一座古老的城堡里一样。

Heathcliff stayed to speak to him, and I entered the kitchen a dingy, untidy hole; I daresay you would not know it, it is so changed since it was in your charge. By the fire stood a ruffianly child, strong in limb and dirty in garb, with a look of Catherine in his eyes and about his mouth.
希刺克厉夫留下来和他说话，我走进了厨房，厨房是一个又脏又乱的地方。我敢说你不会知道，自从你负责以来，它已经发生了如此大的变化。火边站着一个粗鲁的孩子，四肢强壮，衣着肮脏，他的眼睛和嘴里都带着凯瑟琳的神情。

‘This is Edgar’s legal nephew,’ I reflected ‘mine in a manner; I must shake hands, and yes I must kiss him. It is right to establish a good understanding at the beginning.’
“这是埃德加的合法侄子，”我这样想道，“我的侄子；”我必须握手，是的，我必须亲吻他。一开始就建立良好的了解是正确的。

I approached, and, attempting to take his chubby fist, said ‘How do you do, my dear?’
我走近他，试图握住他胖乎乎的拳头，说道：“亲爱的，你好吗？”

He replied in a jargon I did not comprehend.
他用我听不懂的行话回答。

‘Shall you and I be friends, Hareton?’ was my next essay at conversation.
“你和我可以成为朋友吗，哈里顿？”这是我谈话中的下一篇文章。

An oath, and a threat to set Throttler on me if I did not ‘frame off’ rewarded my perseverance.
如果我不‘陷害’的话，我就发誓并威胁要对我实施节流器，这奖励了我的坚持。

‘Hey, Throttler, lad!’ whispered the little wretch, rousing a halfbred bull-dog from its lair in a corner. ‘Now, wilt thou be ganging?’ he asked authoritatively.
“嘿，节流者，小伙子！”这个小家伙低声说道，从角落里的巢穴中惊醒了一只混血斗牛犬。 “现在，你想拉帮结伙吗？”他权威地问道。

Love for my life urged a compliance; I stepped over the threshold to wait till the others should enter. Mr. Heathcliff was nowhere visible; and Joseph, whom I followed to the stables, and requested to accompany me in, after staring and muttering to himself, screwed up his nose and replied ‘Mim! mim! mim! Did iver Christian body hear aught like it? Mincing un’ munching! How can I tell whet ye say?’
对生命的热爱促使我顺从；我跨过门槛，等待其他人进来。希刺克厉夫先生不见踪影。我跟着约瑟夫到了马厩，要求陪我进去，他盯着我看，自言自语，然后拧起鼻子回答道：“咪姆！”嗯！嗯！基督教团体有没有听到过类似的事情？切碎而不是咀嚼！我怎么知道你说了什么？

‘I say, I wish you to come with me into the house!’ I cried, thinking him deaf, yet highly disgusted at his rudeness.
“我说，我希望你跟我一起进屋！”我喊道，以为他聋了，但对他的粗鲁感到非常厌恶。

‘None o’ me! I getten summut else to do,’ he answered, and continued his work; moving his lantern jaws meanwhile, and surveying my dress and countenance (the former a great deal too fine, but the latter, I’m sure, as sad as he could desire) with sovereign contempt.
‘没有我！ “我还有别的事要做。”他回答道，然后继续他的工作。与此同时，他的下巴张开，带着至高无上的蔑视打量着我的衣着和面容（前者实在是太精致了，但后者，我确信，正如他所希望的那样悲伤）。

I walked round the yard, and through a wicket, to another door, at which I took the liberty of knocking, in hopes some more civil servant might show himself. After a short suspense, it was opened by a tall, gaunt man, without neckerchief, and otherwise extremely slovenly; his features were lost in masses of shaggy hair that hung on his shoulders; and HIS eyes, too, were like a ghostly Catherine’s with all their beauty annihilated.
我绕过院子，穿过一个小门，来到另一扇门前，我冒昧地敲了敲门，希望能有更多的公务员出现。短暂的悬念之后，开门的是一个身材高大、憔悴的男人，没有戴围巾，其他方面都极其邋遢。他的五官被披在肩上的大量蓬乱的头发所掩盖。他的眼睛也像幽灵般的凯瑟琳的眼睛，所有的美丽都消失了。

‘What’s your business here?’ he demanded, grimly. ‘Who are you?’
“你来这里做什么？”他严肃地问道。 '你是谁？'

‘My name was Isabella Linton,’ I replied. ‘You’ve seen me before, sir. I’m lately married to Mr. Heathcliff, and he has brought me here I suppose, by your permission.’
“我的名字是伊莎贝拉·林顿，”我回答道。 “你以前见过我，先生。我最近和希斯克利夫先生结婚了，我想他是在你的允许下才把我带到这里的。

‘Is he come back, then?’ asked the hermit, glaring like a hungry wolf.
“那么他回来了吗？”隐士问道，他的目光像饿狼一样怒目而视。

‘Yes we came just now,’ I said; ‘but he left me by the kitchen door; and when I would have gone in, your little boy played sentinel over the place, and frightened me off by the help of a bull-dog.’
“是的，我们刚刚来了，”我说。 “但他把我留在了厨房门口；当我想进去的时候，你的小男孩在这个地方放哨，并在一只斗牛犬的帮助下把我吓跑了。

‘It’s well the hellish villain has kept his word!’ growled my future host, searching the darkness beyond me in expectation of discovering Heathcliff; and then he indulged in a soliloquy of execrations, and threats of what he would have done had the ‘fiend’ deceived him.
“幸亏这个地狱般的恶棍遵守了他的诺言！”我未来的主人咆哮道，他在我身后的黑暗中搜寻着，期待着发现希刺克厉夫。然后他沉迷于咒骂的独白，并威胁说如果“恶魔”欺骗了他，他会做什么。

I repented having tried this second entrance, and was almost inclined to slip away before he finished cursing, but ere I could execute that intention, he ordered me in, and shut and re-fastened the door. There was a great fire, and that was all the light in the huge apartment, whose floor had grown a uniform grey; and the once brilliant pewter-dishes, which used to attract my gaze when I was a girl, partook of a similar obscurity, created by tarnish and dust. I inquired whether I might call the maid, and be conducted to a bedroom! Mr. Earnshaw vouchsafed no answer. He walked up and down, with his hands in his pockets, apparently quite forgetting my presence; and his abstraction was evidently so deep, and his whole aspect so misanthropical, that I shrank from disturbing him again.
我后悔尝试了第二次进入，在他咒骂完毕之前，我几乎想溜走，但在我能够执行这个意图之前，他命令我进去，然后关上门并重新锁紧门。房间里生着一堆大火，这就是这间大公寓里所有的光线，地板已经变成了统一的灰色。当我还是个小女孩的时候，那些曾经辉煌的锡制盘子曾经吸引过我的目光，现在由于失去光泽和灰尘而变得黯淡无光。我询问是否可以叫女佣，然后被带到卧室！恩肖先生没有回答。他双手插在口袋里来回走动，显然完全忘记了我的存在。他的心不在焉，而且他的整个面容又是那么厌世，我不敢再去打扰他。

You’ll not be surprised, Ellen, at my feeling particularly cheerless, seated in worse than solitude on that inhospitable hearth, and remembering that four miles distant lay my delightful home, containing the only people I loved on earth; and there might as well be the Atlantic to part us, instead of those four miles: I could not overpass them! I questioned with myself where must I turn for comfort? and mind you don’t tell Edgar, or Catherine above every sorrow beside, this rose pre-eminent: despair at finding nobody who could or would be my ally against Heathcliff! I had sought shelter at Wuthering Heights, almost gladly, because I was secured by that arrangement from living alone with him; but he knew the people we were coming amongst, and he did not fear their intermeddling.
艾伦，你不会感到惊讶，因为我感到特别沮丧，坐在那个荒凉的炉边，比孤独更糟糕，并记得四英里之外就是我可爱的家，那里住着我在地球上唯一爱的人；我们之间可能隔着大西洋，而不是那四英里：我无法越过它们！我问自己，我该到哪里寻求安慰？请注意，除了所有的悲伤之外，你别告诉埃德加或凯瑟琳，这朵玫瑰是卓越的：绝望地发现没有人能够或将成为我对抗希刺克厉夫的盟友！我几乎很高兴地在呼啸山庄寻求庇护，因为这样的安排可以保证我不用和他单独住在一起。但他了解我们周围的人，而且他并不担心他们的干涉。

I sat and thought a doleful time: the clock struck eight, and nine, and still my companion paced to and fro, his head bent on his breast, and perfectly silent, unless a groan or a bitter ejaculation forced itself out at intervals. I listened to detect a woman’s voice in the house, and filled the interim with wild regrets and dismal anticipations, which, at last, spoke audibly in irrepressible sighing and weeping. I was not aware how openly I grieved, till Earnshaw halted opposite, in his measured walk, and gave me a stare of newly-awakened surprise. Taking advantage of his recovered attention, I exclaimed ‘I’m tired with my journey, and I want to go to bed! Where is the maid-servant? Direct me to her, as she won’t come to me!’
我坐下来，想了一段悲伤的时光：时钟敲了八点，又敲了九点，我的同伴仍然来回踱步，他的头低垂在胸前，一言不发，除非时不时地强行发出一声呻吟或痛苦的射精。我侧耳倾听，发现屋里有女人的声音，期间充满了疯狂的悔恨和悲观的期待，最后，我听到了无法抑制的叹息和哭泣。我没有意识到我有多公开地悲伤，直到恩肖在对面停了下来，他步伐缓慢，用一种刚刚醒来的惊讶的眼神看着我。趁着他恢复注意力的机会，我大声说道：“我旅途很累，我想睡觉了！”婢女在哪里？引导我去找她，因为她不会来找我！

‘We have none,’ he answered; ‘you must wait on yourself!’
“我们没有，”他回答道。 “你一定要等自己！”

‘Where must I sleep, then?’ I sobbed; I was beyond regarding selfrespect, weighed down by fatigue and wretchedness.
“那我该睡哪儿呢？”我抽泣着。我已经失去了自尊，被疲劳和不幸压得喘不过气来。

‘Joseph will show you Heathcliff’s chamber,’ said he; ‘open that door he’s in there.’
“约瑟夫将带你参观希刺克厉夫的房间，”他说。 “打开那扇门，他就在那里。”

I was going to obey, but he suddenly arrested me, and added in the strangest tone ‘Be so good as to turn your lock, and draw your bolt don’t omit it!’
我正要服从，但他突然拦住了我，并用一种​​最奇怪的语气补充道：“好好转动你的锁，拉上门闩，别忘了！”

‘Well!’ I said. ‘But why, Mr. Earnshaw?’ I did not relish the notion of deliberately fastening myself in with Heathcliff.
“好吧！”我说。 “但是为什么呢，恩肖先生？”我不喜欢刻意与希刺克厉夫拉在一起。

‘Look here!’ he replied, pulling from his waistcoat a curiouslyconstructed pistol, having a double-edged spring knife attached to the barrel. ‘That’s a great tempter to a desperate man, is it not? I cannot resist going up with this every night, and trying his door. If once I find it open he’s done for; I do it invariably, even though the minute before I have been recalling a hundred reasons that should make me refrain: it is some devil that urges me to thwart my own schemes by killing him. You fight against that devil for love as long as you may; when the time comes, not all the angels in heaven shall save him!’
“看这里！”他回答道，从背心里掏出一把结构奇特的手枪，枪管上装有一把双刃弹簧刀。 “这对于一个绝望的人来说是一个巨大的诱惑，不是吗？我每天晚上都无法抗拒带着这个，去尝试他的门。一旦我发现它打开了，他就完蛋了；我总是这样做，尽管前一分钟我已经回忆起一百个应该让我克制的理由：是某个魔鬼催促我杀死他来挫败我自己的计划。为了爱情，你可以与那个魔鬼战斗多久；到时候，天上的天使也不一定能救他！”

I surveyed the weapon inquisitively. A hideous notion struck me: how powerful I should be possessing such an instrument! I took it from his hand, and touched the blade. He looked astonished at the expression my face assumed during a brief second: it was not horror, it was covetousness. He snatched the pistol back, jealously; shut the knife, and returned it to its concealment.
我好奇地打量着这把武器。我突然产生了一个可怕的念头：拥有这样一件乐器，我该有多么强大啊！我从他手里接过它，触碰了刀片。他惊讶地看着我那一瞬间的表情：这不是恐惧，而是贪婪。他嫉妒地把手枪夺了回来。合上刀，放回原处。

‘I don’t care if you tell him,’ said he. ‘Put him on his guard, and watch for him. You know the terms we are on, I see: his danger does not shock you.’
“我不在乎你是否告诉他，”他说。 ‘让他保持警惕，留意他。我明白了，你知道我们的条件：他的危险不会​​让你感到震惊。

‘What has Heathcliff done to you?’ I asked. ‘In what has he wronged you, to warrant this appalling hatred? Wouldn’t it be wiser to bid him quit the house?’
“希刺克厉夫对你做了什么？”我问。 “他到底得罪了你什么，才会造成如此可怕的仇恨？”让他离开家不是更明智吗？

‘No!’ thundered Earnshaw; ‘should he offer to leave me, he’s a dead man: persuade him to attempt it, and you are a murderess! Am I to lose ALL, without a chance of retrieval? Is Hareton to be a beggar? Oh, damnation! I WILL have it back; and I’ll have HIS gold too; and then his blood; and hell shall have his soul! It will be ten times blacker with that guest than ever it was before!’
“不！”恩肖怒吼道。 “如果他主动提出离开我，他就死定了：说服他这样做，你就是一个凶手！”难道我会失去一切，没有挽回的机会吗？哈里顿是要当乞丐吗？哦，该死！我会把它拿回来；我也会得到他的金子；然后是他的血；他的灵魂将被地狱吞没！那个客人的心情会比以前更黑十倍！”

You’ve acquainted me, Ellen, with your old master’s habits. He is clearly on the verge of madness: he was so last night at least. I shuddered to be near him, and thought on the servant’s ill-bred moroseness as comparatively agreeable. He now recommenced his moody walk, and I raised the latch, and escaped into the kitchen. Joseph was bending over the fire, peering into a large pan that swung above it; and a wooden bowl of oatmeal stood on the settle close by. The contents of the pan began to boil, and he turned to plunge his hand into the bowl; I conjectured that this preparation was probably for our supper, and, being hungry, I resolved it should be eatable; so, crying out sharply, ‘I’LL make the porridge!’ I removed the vessel out of his reach, and proceeded to take off my hat and riding-habit. ‘Mr. Earnshaw,’ I continued, ‘directs me to wait on myself: I will. I’m not going to act the lady among you, for fear I should starve.’
艾伦，你让我了解了你老主人的习惯。他显然已经处于疯狂的边缘：至少昨晚是这样。我一靠近他就浑身发抖，而且觉得这个仆人没有教养的忧郁情绪还算是比较令人愉快的。他现在又开始了喜怒无常的散步，我打开门闩，逃进了厨房。约瑟夫正俯身在火边，凝视着在火上晃动的一只大锅。附近的长凳上放着一碗燕麦片。锅里的东西开始沸腾，他转身把手伸进碗里。我猜想这可能是为我们的晚餐准备的，而且由于饥饿，我决定它应该可以吃；于是，我大声喊道：“我来煮粥！”我把容器移到他够不到的地方，然后脱下帽子和骑行服。 '先生。恩肖，”我继续说道，“指示我等待自己：我会的。我不会在你们中间扮演女士，因为我担心我会饿死。

‘Gooid Lord!’ he muttered, sitting down, and stroking his ribbed stockings from the knee to the ankle. ‘If there’s to be fresh ortherings just when I getten used to two maisters, if I mun hev’ a MISTRESS set o’er my heead, it’s like time to be flitting. I niver DID think to see t’ day that I mud lave th’ owld place but I doubt it’s nigh at hand!’
“上帝啊！”他低声说道，坐下来，抚摸着从膝盖到脚踝的罗纹长袜。 “如果当我刚刚习惯了两个主人时，如果有新鲜的东西，如果我想把一个情妇戴在我的头上，那就像是时间飞逝了。我从来没有想过有一天我会毁掉这个旧地方，但我怀疑它就在眼前！

This lamentation drew no notice from me: I went briskly to work, sighing to remember a period when it would have been all merry fun; but compelled speedily to drive off the remembrance. It racked me to recall past happiness and the greater peril there was of conjuring up its apparition, the quicker the thible ran round, and the faster the handfuls of meal fell into the water. Joseph beheld my style of cookery with growing indignation.
我没有注意到这种哀叹：我轻快地去工作，叹息着回忆起那段本来是快乐的时光；但又被迫迅速赶走记忆。让我痛苦地回想起过去的幸福，而召唤它的幻影的危险就越大，锅转得越快，手里的面粉落入水中的速度就越快。约瑟夫看到我的烹饪风格越来越愤怒。

‘Thear!’ he ejaculated. ‘Hareton, thou willn’t sup thy porridge to-neeght; they’ll be naught but lumps as big as my neive. Thear, agean! I’d fling in bowl un’ all, if I wer ye! There, pale t’ guilp off, un’ then ye’ll hae done wi’ ‘t. Bang, bang. It’s a mercy t’ bothom isn’t deaved out!’
“瑟尔！”他喊道。 “哈里顿，你不肯给邻居喝粥；它们只不过是像我的内网一样大的肿块。瑟尔，爱琴海！如果我是你们，我会把一切都扔进碗里！在那里，苍白地走开，然后你们就完成了。嘭嘭。谢天谢地，两人都没有陷入困境！

It WAS rather a rough mess, I own, when poured into the basins; four had been provided, and a gallon pitcher of new milk was brought from the dairy, which Hareton seized and commenced drinking and spilling from the expansive lip. I expostulated, and desired that he should have his in a mug; affirming that I could not taste the liquid treated so dirtily. The old cynic chose to be vastly offended at this nicety; assuring me, repeatedly, that ‘the barn was every bit as good’ as I, ‘and every bit as wollsome,’ and wondering how I could fashion to be so conceited. Meanwhile, the infant ruffian continued sucking; and glowered up at me defyingly, as he slavered into the jug.
我承认，当倒入盆中时，它是相当混乱的。已经提供了四罐，一加仑的新牛奶从奶牛场运来，哈里顿抓住了它，开始喝，从宽大的嘴唇里溢出来。我劝告他，希望他能把自己的杯子装在杯子里。确认我无法品尝如此肮脏处理的液体。老愤世嫉俗者选择对这种微妙的行为感到极大的冒犯。他一再向我保证，“谷仓和我一样好”，“也一样舒服”，并想知道我怎么能表现得如此自负。与此同时，小痞子还在继续吮吸。当他向罐子里流口水时，他挑衅地瞪着我。

‘I shall have my supper in another room,’ I said. ‘Have you no place you call a parlour?’
“我会在另一个房间吃晚饭，”我说。 “你们没有可以称之为客厅的地方吗？”

‘PARLOUR!’ he echoed, sneeringly, ‘PARLOUR! Nay, we’ve noa PARLOURS. If yah dunnut loike wer company, there’s maister’s; un’ if yah dunnut loike maister, there’s us.’
“客厅！”他冷笑着重复道，“客厅！”不，我们没有客厅。如果你有同伴的话，那就有maister’s； “如果是的，dunnut loike maister，那就是我们。”

‘Then I shall go up-stairs,’ I answered; ‘show me a chamber.’
“那我就上楼去。”我回答道。 “给我看看一个房间。”

I put my basin on a tray, and went myself to fetch some more milk. With great grumblings, the fellow rose, and preceded me in my ascent: we mounted to the garrets; he opened a door, now and then, to look into the apartments we passed.
我把脸盆放在托盘上，自己去拿牛奶。那家伙大声抱怨着，站了起来，走在我前面：我们登上了阁楼。他时不时地打开一扇门，看看我们经过的公寓。

‘Here’s a rahm,’ he said, at last, flinging back a cranky board on hinges. ‘It’s weel eneugh to ate a few porridge in. There’s a pack o’ corn i’ t’ corner, thear, meeterly clane; if ye’re feared o’ muckying yer grand silk cloes, spread yer hankerchir o’ t’ top on’t.’
“这是一个拉姆，”他最后说，把铰链上的一块古怪的木板扔了回去。 “吃点粥就够了。角落里有一包玉米，那儿，美味的克莱恩；”如果你害怕弄脏你华丽的丝绸衣服，请在上面铺上你的汗布。

The ‘rahm’ was a kind of lumber-hole smelling strong of malt and grain; various sacks of which articles were piled around, leaving a wide, bare space in the middle.
“拉姆”是一种木材洞，散发着浓烈的麦芽和谷物的气味。各种袋子，里面堆满了物品，中间留下了一个宽阔的空地。

‘Why, man,’ I exclaimed, facing him angrily, ‘this is not a place to sleep in. I wish to see my bed-room.’
“哎呀，伙计，”我愤怒地对着他喊道，“这不是睡觉的地方。我想看看我的卧室。”

‘BED-RUME!’ he repeated, in a tone of mockery. ‘Yah’s see all t’ BED-RUMES thear is yon’s mine.’
“床上的酒！”他用嘲弄的语气重复道。 “你看到了所有的床记，那是你的。”

He pointed into the second garret, only differing from the first in being more naked about the walls, and having a large, low, curtainless bed, with an indigo-coloured quilt, at one end.
他指着第二间阁楼，与第一间的唯一不同之处在于，墙壁更加裸露，床的一端有一张低矮的、没有窗帘的大床，床的一端铺着靛蓝色的被子。

‘What do I want with yours?’ I retorted. ‘I suppose Mr. Heathcliff does not lodge at the top of the house, does he?’
“我想要你的什么？”我反驳道。 “我想希刺克厉夫先生并不住在房子的顶楼，是吗？”

‘Oh! it’s Maister HATHECLIFF’S ye’re wanting?’ cried he, as if making a new discovery. ‘Couldn’t ye ha’ said soa, at onst? un’ then, I mud ha’ telled ye, baht all this wark, that that’s just one ye cannut see he allas keeps it locked, un’ nob’dy iver mells on’t but hisseln.’
'哦！ “你想要的是海瑟克利夫大师的作品吗？”他喊道，仿佛有了新的发现。索阿突然说道：“你不能吗？”然后，我就告诉你们，尽管如此，你们看不到他把门锁着，除了他自己，没人会喜欢。

‘You’ve a nice house, Joseph,’ I could not refrain from observing, ‘and pleasant inmates; and I think the concentrated essence of all the madness in the world took up its abode in my brain the day I linked my fate with theirs! However, that is not to the present purpose there are other rooms. For heaven’s sake be quick, and let me settle somewhere!’
“你有一座漂亮的房子，约瑟夫，”我情不自禁地说道，“还有令人愉快的囚犯；我认为，当我将自己的命运与他们的命运联系在一起的那一天，世界上所有疯狂的浓缩精华就在我的大脑中占据了住所！然而，这并不是为了目前的目的还有其他房间。看在上帝的份上，快点让我找个地方安顿下来！”

He made no reply to this adjuration; only plodding doggedly down the wooden steps, and halting, before an apartment which, from that halt and the superior quality of its furniture, I conjectured to be the best one. There was a carpet a good one, but the pattern was obliterated by dust; a fireplace hung with cut-paper, dropping to pieces; a handsome oak-bedstead with ample crimson curtains of rather expensive material and modern make; but they had evidently experienced rough usage: the vallances hung in festoons, wrenched from their rings, and the iron rod supporting them was bent in an arc on one side, causing the drapery to trail upon the floor. The chairs were also damaged, many of them severely; and deep indentations deformed the panels of the walls. I was endeavouring to gather resolution for entering and taking possession, when my fool of a guide announced, ‘This here is t’ maister’s.’ My supper by this time was cold, my appetite gone, and my patience exhausted. I insisted on being provided instantly with a place of refuge, and means of repose.
他没有对这个警告作出任何答复。只是顽强地艰难地走下木台阶，在一间公寓前停了下来，从那次停顿和里面家具的卓越品质来看，我猜想那是最好的一间。那里有一张地毯，质量不错，但图案已被灰尘抹掉了。壁炉上挂着剪纸，纸片纷纷掉落；一张漂亮的橡木床架，上面挂着宽大的深红色窗帘，窗帘材质相当昂贵，款式现代；但他们显然经历过粗暴的使用：帷幔悬挂在花彩中，从环上拧下来，支撑帷幔的铁杆一侧弯曲成弧形，导致帷幔拖在地板上。椅子也被损坏，其中许多损坏严重；深深的凹痕使墙板变形。我正努力下定决心进入并占领，这时我那个愚蠢的导游宣布：“这是老师的。”此时我的晚餐已经冷了，我的胃口消失了，我的耐心也耗尽了。我坚持要求立即为我提供避难所和休息场所。

‘Whear the divil?’ began the religious elder. ‘The Lord bless us! The Lord forgie us! Whear the HELL wdd ye gang? ye marred, wearisome nowt! Ye’ve seen all but Hareton’s bit of a cham’er. There’s not another hoile to lig down in i’ th’ hahse!’
“听到魔鬼的声音了吗？”宗教长老开始说道。 ‘愿主保佑我们！主赦免我们！听到你们这帮人到底在说什么吗？你们受伤了，现在真烦人！你们都见过，除了哈里顿有点爱赌。在我的哈斯里没有另一个可以点燃的洞了！

I was so vexed, I flung my tray and its contents on the ground; and then seated myself at the stairs’-head, hid my face in my hands, and cried.
我很恼火，把托盘和里面的东西扔到了地上。然后我坐在楼梯口，双手捂住脸，哭了。

‘Ech! ech!’ exclaimed Joseph. ‘Weel done, Miss Cathy! weel done, Miss Cathy! Howsiver, t’ maister sall just tum’le o’er them brooken pots; un’ then we’s hear summut; we’s hear how it’s to be. Gooid-for-naught madling! ye desarve pining fro’ this to Churstmas, flinging t’ precious gifts o’God under fooit i’ yer flaysome rages! But I’m mista’en if ye shew yer sperrit lang. Will Hathecliff bide sich bonny ways, think ye? I nobbut wish he may catch ye i’ that plisky. I nobbut wish he may.’
哎呀！哎呀！”约瑟夫惊呼道。 “好了，凯茜小姐！”干得好，凯茜小姐！不管怎样，老师只是把那些破罐子翻过来；然后我们听到 summut；我们已经听说了事情会怎样。没用的疯子！你们应该怀念圣诞节，在你们轻浮的愤怒之下扔掉上帝的珍贵礼物！但如果你表现出你的精神，我就错了。你认为哈瑟克利夫会保持这种优雅的态度吗？我真希望他能抓住你那个小东西。我非常希望他可以。

And so he went on scolding to his den beneath, taking the candle with him; and I remained in the dark. The period of reflection succeeding this silly action compelled me to admit the necessity of smothering my pride and choking my wrath, and bestirring myself to remove its effects. An unexpected aid presently appeared in the shape of Throttler, whom I now recognised as a son of our old Skulker: it had spent its whelphood at the Grange, and was given by my father to Mr. Hindley. I fancy it knew me: it pushed its nose against mine by way of salute, and then hastened to devour the porridge; while I groped from step to step, collecting the shattered earthenware, and drying the spatters of milk from the banister with my pocket-handkerchief. Our labours were scarcely over when I heard Earnshaw’s tread in the passage; my assistant tucked in his tail, and pressed to the wall; I stole into the nearest doorway. The dog’s endeavour to avoid him was unsuccessful; as I guessed by a scutter down-stairs, and a prolonged, piteous yelping. I had better luck: he passed on, entered his chamber, and shut the door. Directly after Joseph came up with Hareton, to put him to bed. I had found shelter in Hareton’s room, and the old man, on seeing me, said, ‘They’s rahm for boath ye un’ yer pride, now, I sud think i’ the hahse. It’s empty; ye may hev’ it all to yerseln, un’ Him as allus maks a third, i’ sich ill company!’
于是，他拿着蜡烛，继续对下面的巢穴骂骂咧咧。而我仍然处于黑暗之中。在这个愚蠢的行为之后的一段时间的反思迫使我承认有必要抑制我的骄傲和愤怒，并激励自己消除其影响。不久，一个意想不到的援助以节流者的形式出现，我现在认出他是我们老潜藏者的儿子：它在田庄度过了童年，是我父亲送给欣德利先生的。我想它认识我：它把鼻子凑到我的面前行礼，然后赶紧把粥吃掉；我一步一步摸索着，收集破碎的陶器，并用手帕擦干栏杆上溅出的牛奶。当我们的工作刚刚结束时，我听到了恩肖在过道里的脚步声。我的助手夹起尾巴，按在墙上。我偷偷溜进最近的门口。狗试图避开他，但没有成功。正如我所猜测的那样，楼下传来一阵急促的声音，还有一声长长的、可怜的叫喊声。我的运气比较好：他走了，走进他的房间，关上了门。约瑟夫立即找到哈里顿，让他上床睡觉。我在哈里顿的房间里找到了庇护所，老人一看到我就说：“他们是为了你的骄傲而生的，现在，我突然想我是那条船。”它是空的;你们可以把这一切都交给他，作为第三个，我是病态的伙伴！

Gladly did I take advantage of this intimation; and the minute I flung myself into a chair, by the fire, I nodded, and slept. My slumber was deep and sweet, though over far too soon. Mr. Heathcliff awoke me; he had just come in, and demanded, in his loving manner, what I was doing there? I told him the cause of my staying up so late that he had the key of our room in his pocket. The adjective OUR gave mortal offence. He swore it was not, nor ever should be, mine; and he’d but I’ll not repeat his language, nor describe his habitual conduct: he is ingenious and unresting in seeking to gain my abhorrence! I sometimes wonder at him with an intensity that deadens my fear: yet, I assure you, a tiger or a venomous serpent could not rouse terror in me equal to that which he wakens. He told me of Catherine’s illness, and accused my brother of causing it promising that I should be Edgar’s proxy in suffering, till he could get hold of him.
我很高兴地利用了这个暗示；当我一坐到火边的椅子上，我点点头，就睡着了。我的睡眠又深又甜，虽然结束得太快了。希刺克厉夫先生叫醒了我。他刚刚进来，以他慈爱的态度询问我在那里做什么？我告诉他我熬夜的原因，他把我们房间的钥匙放在口袋里了。 “我们的”这个形容词让人感到非常冒犯。他发誓这不是我的，也不应该是我的；他会，但我不会重复他的语言，也不会描述他的惯常行为：他很聪明，而且不安分，想博得我的憎恶！有时我对他感到好奇，这种强烈的感觉减轻了我的恐惧：然而，我向你保证，一只老虎或一条毒蛇无法在我心中激起与他所唤醒的恐惧相同的恐惧。他告诉我凯瑟琳的病，并指责是我哥哥造成的，并承诺我应该成为埃德加受苦的代理人，直到他能抓住他。

I do hate him I am wretched I have been a fool! Beware of uttering one breath of this to any one at the Grange. I shall expect you every day don’t disappoint me! ISABELLA.
我真的恨他我很可怜我一直是个傻瓜！小心不要向田庄里的任何人吐出这样的话。我每天都会期待你，不要让我失望！伊莎贝拉。

Chapter XIV
第十四章

AS soon as I had perused this epistle I went to the master, and informed him that his sister had arrived at the Heights, and sent me a letter expressing her sorrow for Mrs. Linton’s situation, and her ardent desire to see him; with a wish that he would transmit to her, as early as possible, some token of forgiveness by me.
我一读完这封信，就去找了主人，告诉他他的妹妹已经到了高地，并给我写了一封信，表达了她对林惇夫人处境的悲伤，以及她想见他的热切愿望。希望他能尽早向她转达我的一些宽恕的象征。

‘Forgiveness!’ said Linton. ‘I have nothing to forgive her, Ellen. You may call at Wuthering Heights this afternoon, if you like, and say that I am not angry, but I’m sorry to have lost her; especially as I can never think she’ll be happy. It is out of the question my going to see her, however: we are eternally divided; and should she really wish to oblige me, let her persuade the villain she has married to leave the country.’
“宽恕！”林惇说。 “我没有什么可以原谅她的，艾伦。如果你愿意的话，你可以今天下午打电话到呼啸山庄，说我没有生气，但我很遗憾失去了她；尤其是我永远不认为她会幸福。然而，我不可能去见她：我们永远是分裂的；我们永远不会在一起。如果她真的愿意帮我的话，就让她说服她所嫁给的恶棍离开这个国家。

‘And you won’t write her a little note, sir?’ I asked, imploringly.
“先生，您不肯给她写张小纸条吗？”我恳求道。

‘No,’ he answered. ‘It is needless. My communication with Heathcliff’s family shall be as sparing as his with mine. It shall not exist!’
“不，”他回答道。 ‘这是没有必要的。我与希斯克利夫家人的交流将像他与我家人的交流一样少。它不应该存在！

Mr. Edgar’s coldness depressed me exceedingly; and all the way from the Grange I puzzled my brains how to put more heart into what he said, when I repeated it; and how to soften his refusal of even a few lines to console Isabella. I daresay she had been on the watch for me since morning: I saw her looking through the lattice as I came up the garden causeway, and I nodded to her; but she drew back, as if afraid of being observed. I entered without knocking. There never was such a dreary, dismal scene as the formerly cheerful house presented! I must confess, that if I had been in the young lady’s place, I would, at least, have swept the hearth, and wiped the tables with a duster. But she already partook of the pervading spirit of neglect which encompassed her. Her pretty face was wan and listless; her hair uncurled: some locks hanging lankly down, and some carelessly twisted round her head. Probably she had not touched her dress since yester evening. Hindley was not there. Mr. Heathcliff sat at a table, turning over some papers in his pocket-book; but he rose when I appeared, asked me how I did, quite friendly, and offered me a chair. He was the only thing there that seemed decent; and I thought he never looked better. So much had circumstances altered their positions, that he would certainly have struck a stranger as a born and bred gentleman; and his wife as a thorough little slattern! She came forward eagerly to greet me, and held out one hand to take the expected letter. I shook my head. She wouldn’t understand the hint, but followed me to a sideboard, where I went to lay my bonnet, and importuned me in a whisper to give her directly what I had brought. Heathcliff guessed the meaning of her manoeuvres, and said ‘If you have got anything for Isabella (as no doubt you have, Nelly), give it to her. You needn’t make a secret of it: we have no secrets between us.’
埃德加先生的冷漠让我非常沮丧。从农庄一路走来，当我重复他所说的话时，我的大脑一直在思考如何更加用心地听他说的话。以及如何软化他拒绝用几句话来安慰伊莎贝拉的态度。我敢说她从早上起就一直在监视着我：当我走上花园堤道时，我看到她透过格子往外看，我向她点了点头；然后我就向她点了点头。但她却退缩了，好像害怕被人看见。我没有敲门就进去了。从来没有像以前欢快的房子呈现出如此沉闷、凄凉的景象！我必须承认，如果我处在这位年轻女士的位置，我至少会打扫壁炉，用掸子擦桌子。但她已经沾染了围绕着她的普遍的忽视精神。她美丽的脸庞苍白而无精打采。她的头发散开：有些绺细长地垂下来，有些漫不经心地盘在头上。也许从昨天晚上开始她就没有碰过她的衣服。欣德利不在那儿。希刺克厉夫先生坐在一张桌子旁，翻阅着他皮夹里的一些文件。但当我出现时，他站了起来，非常友好地问我过得怎么样，并给了我一张椅子。他是那里唯一看起来正派的人。我觉得他看起来从来没有这么好过。环境已经改变了他们的立场，以至于陌生人肯定会认为他是一位天生的绅士。而他的妻子就是个彻头彻尾的小贱人！她急切地上前迎接我，并伸出一只手接过我期待的信。我摇摇头。她不明白这个暗示，但跟着我走到餐具柜前，我去那里放帽子，并低声恳求我直接把我带来的东西给她。 希刺克厉夫猜到了她的举动的意义，并说道：“如果你有什么东西可以给伊莎贝拉（毫无疑问你有，耐莉），就给她吧。”你不必保守秘密：我们之间没有秘密。’

‘Oh, I have nothing,’ I replied, thinking it best to speak the truth at once. ‘My master bid me tell his sister that she must not expect either a letter or a visit from him at present. He sends his love, ma’am, and his wishes for your happiness, and his pardon for the grief you have occasioned; but he thinks that after this time his household and the household here should drop intercommunication, as nothing could come of keeping it up.’
“哦，我什么都没有。”我回答道，心想最好还是立即说实话。 “我的主人吩咐我告诉他的妹妹，她目前不要指望他会来信或来访。女士，他向您表达了他的爱，并祝愿您幸福，并对您造成的悲伤表示原谅；但他认为，这次之后，他的家人和这里的家人应该停止相互联系，因为再继续下去是没有任何结果的。

Mrs. Heathcliff’s lip quivered slightly, and she returned to her seat in the window. Her husband took his stand on the hearthstone, near me, and began to put questions concerning Catherine. I told him as much as I thought proper of her illness, and he extorted from me, by cross-examination, most of the facts connected with its origin. I blamed her, as she deserved, for bringing it all on herself; and ended by hoping that he would follow Mr. Linton’s example and avoid future interference with his family, for good or evil.
希刺克厉夫夫人的嘴唇微微颤抖，然后她回到靠窗的座位上。她的丈夫站在我附近的炉石上，开始提出有关凯瑟琳的问题。我把我认为正确的关于她的病的情况告诉了他，他通过盘问向我勒索了与其起源有关的大部分事实。我责怪她，这是她应得的，因为她把这一切都归咎于她自己。最后希望他能效仿林惇先生的榜样，避免将来干涉他的家人，无论是好是坏。

‘Mrs. Linton is now just recovering,’ I said; ‘she’ll never be like she was, but her life is spared; and if you really have a regard for her, you’ll shun crossing her way again: nay, you’ll move out of this country entirely; and that you may not regret it, I’ll inform you Catherine Linton is as different now from your old friend Catherine Earnshaw, as that young lady is different from me. Her appearance is changed greatly, her character much more so; and the person who is compelled, of necessity, to be her companion, will only sustain his affection hereafter by the remembrance of what she once was, by common humanity, and a sense of duty!’
'太太。林顿现在刚刚康复，”我说。 “她永远不会像以前那样了，但她的生命得以幸免；如果你真的尊重她，你就会避免再遇到她：不，你会完全搬出这个国家；我会告诉你，凯瑟琳·林顿现在与你的老朋友凯瑟琳·恩肖不同，就像那位年轻女士与我不同一样，你可能不会后悔。她的容貌发生了很大的变化，性格更是如此；而那些被迫成为她伴侣的人，今后只能通过记住她曾经的样子、共同的人性和责任感来维持他的感情！

‘That is quite possible,’ remarked Heathcliff, forcing himself to seem calm: ‘quite possible that your master should have nothing but common humanity and a sense of duty to fall back upon. But do you imagine that I shall leave Catherine to his DUTY and HUMANITY? and can you compare my feelings respecting Catherine to his? Before you leave this house, I must exact a promise from you that you’ll get me an interview with her: consent, or refuse, I WILL see her! What do you say?’
“这很有可能，”希刺克厉夫强迫自己显得平静，说道，“很可能你的主人除了共同的人性和可以依靠的责任感之外什么都没有。但你认为我会让凯瑟琳履行他的职责和人道吗？你能将我对凯瑟琳的尊重与他的感受进行比较吗？在你离开这个家之前，我必须向你保证，你会让我采访她：同意或拒绝，我都会见她！你怎么说？'

‘I say, Mr. Heathcliff,’ I replied, ‘you must not: you never shall, through my means. Another encounter between you and the master would kill her altogether.’
“我说，希刺克厉夫先生，”我回答道，“你绝对不能这么做：通过我的手段，你永远不会这么做。”如果你再和主人相遇，​​她就会被彻底杀死。”

‘With your aid that may be avoided,’ he continued; ‘and should there be danger of such an event should he be the cause of adding a single trouble more to her existence why, I think I shall be justified in going to extremes! I wish you had sincerity enough to tell me whether Catherine would suffer greatly from his loss: the fear that she would restrains me. And there you see the distinction between our feelings: had he been in my place, and I in his, though I hated him with a hatred that turned my life to gall, I never would have raised a hand against him. You may look incredulous, if you please! I never would have banished him from her society as long as she desired his. The moment her regard ceased, I would have torn his heart out, and drunk his blood! But, till then if you don’t believe me, you don’t know me till then, I would have died by inches before I touched a single hair of his head!’
“有了你的帮助，这件事是可以避免的，”他继续说道。 “如果有发生这样的事件的危险，如果他是给她的生活增添更多麻烦的原因，为什么，我想我走极端是合理的！”我希望你有足够的诚意告诉我凯瑟琳是否会因为失去他而遭受巨大的痛苦：担心她会限制我。在这里你可以看到我们感情之间的区别：如果他处于我的位置，而我处于他的位置，尽管我对他充满仇恨，使我的生活变得痛苦，但我永远不会对他举手。如果你愿意的话，你可能会显得难以置信！只要她还需要他，我就不会把他从她的社会中驱逐出去。一旦她的目光停止，我就会撕开他的心，喝他的血！但是，如果你不相信我，那么你还不了解我，在我触及他的一根头发之前，我就已经死了！

‘And yet,’ I interrupted, ‘you have no scruples in completely ruining all hopes of her perfect restoration, by thrusting yourself into her remembrance now, when she has nearly forgotten you, and involving her in a new tumult of discord and distress.’
“然而，”我打断道，“当她几乎忘记你的时候，你却毫无顾忌地把自己投入到她的记忆中，彻底摧毁了她完美康复的所有希望，让她陷入了新的不和谐和痛苦的骚乱之中。 '

‘You suppose she has nearly forgotten me?’ he said. ‘Oh, Nelly! you know she has not! You know as well as I do, that for every thought she spends on Linton she spends a thousand on me! At a most miserable period of my life, I had a notion of the kind: it haunted me on my return to the neighbourhood last summer; but only her own assurance could make me admit the horrible idea again. And then, Linton would be nothing, nor Hindley, nor all the dreams that ever I dreamt. Two words would comprehend my future DEATH and HELL: existence, after losing her, would be hell. Yet I was a fool to fancy for a moment that she valued Edgar Linton’s attachment more than mine. If he loved with all the powers of his puny being, he couldn’t love as much in eighty years as I could in a day. And Catherine has a heart as deep as I have: the sea could be as readily contained in that horse-trough as her whole affection be monopolised by him. Tush! He is scarcely a degree dearer to her than her dog, or her horse. It is not in him to be loved like me: how can she love in him what he has not?’
“你认为她几乎忘记了我吗？”他说。哦，耐莉！你知道她没有！你和我一样清楚，她每在林惇身上花上一点心思，她就在我身上花上一千！在我一生中最悲惨的时期，我有这样的想法：去年夏天我回到附近时，它一直困扰着我；它困扰着我。但只有她自己的保证才能让我再次承认这个可怕的想法。然后，林惇就什么也不是了，辛德利也不是，我所有的梦想也不是。两个词可以概括我未来的死亡和地狱：失去她后，存在将是地狱。然而，我当时真是个傻瓜，居然以为她更看重埃德加·林惇的依恋，而不是我的依恋。如果他用他微不足道的一切力量去爱，他在八十年里也不会像我一天里爱得那么多。凯瑟琳的心和我一样深沉：大海可以轻易地容纳在那个马槽里，就像她的全部感情都可以被他垄断一样。嘘！对她来说，他并不比她的狗或她的马更亲爱。他不能像我一样被爱：她怎么能爱他所没有的东西呢？

‘Catherine and Edgar are as fond of each other as any two people can be,’ cried Isabella, with sudden vivacity. ‘No one has a right to talk in that manner, and I won’t hear my brother depreciated in silence!’
“凯瑟琳和埃德加就像任何两个人一样彼此相爱，”伊莎贝拉突然活泼起来喊道。 “任何人都无权这样说话，我不会听到我的兄弟被人默默贬低！”

‘Your brother is wondrous fond of you too, isn’t he?’ observed Heathcliff, scornfully. ‘He turns you adrift on the world with surprising alacrity.’
“你哥哥也非常喜欢你，不是吗？”希刺克厉夫轻蔑地说道。 “他以惊人的敏捷让你在这个世界上随波逐流。”

‘He is not aware of what I suffer,’ she replied. ‘I didn’t tell him that.’
“他不知道我所受的痛苦，”她回答道。 “我没有告诉他这一点。”

‘You have been telling him something, then: you have written, have you?’
“那么，你一直在告诉他一些事情：你已经写信了，是吗？”

‘To say that I was married, I did write you saw the note.’
“要说我已经结婚了，我确实写过，你看到了这张纸条。”

‘And nothing since?’
“从那以后就什么都没有了？”

‘No.’
'不。'

‘My young lady is looking sadly the worse for her change of condition,’ I remarked. ‘Somebody’s love comes short in her case, obviously; whose, I may guess; but, perhaps, I shouldn’t say.’
“我的年轻女士由于病情的变化看起来更加糟糕了，”我说道。 “显然，在她的例子中，某人的爱是不足的；我猜是谁的；但也许我不应该说。

‘I should guess it was her own,’ said Heathcliff. ‘She degenerates into a mere slut! She is tired of trying to please me uncommonly early. You’d hardly credit it, but the very morrow of our wedding she was weeping to go home. However, she’ll suit this house so much the better for not being over nice, and I’ll take care she does not disgrace me by rambling abroad.’
“我猜那是她自己的，”希刺克厉夫说。 ‘她堕落成一个荡妇了！她厌倦了过早地试图取悦我。你很难相信这一点，但我们婚礼的第二天，她就哭着要回家。不过，她不会太友善，所以会更适合这所房子，而且我会小心她不会因为在国外闲逛而让我丢脸。

‘Well, sir,’ returned I, ‘I hope you’ll consider that Mrs. Heathcliff is accustomed to be looked after and waited on; and that she has been brought up like an only daughter, whom every one was ready to serve. You must let her have a maid to keep things tidy about her, and you must treat her kindly. Whatever be your notion of Mr. Edgar, you cannot doubt that she has a capacity for strong attachments, or she wouldn’t have abandoned the elegancies, and comforts, and friends of her former home, to fix contentedly, in such a wilderness as this, with you.’
“好吧，先生，”我回答道，“我希望您能考虑到希刺克厉夫夫人习惯于被照顾和侍候；她是一个习惯于被照顾和侍候的人。”她像独生女一样被抚养长大，每个人都准备好为她服务。你必须让她有一个女仆来收拾她的东西，并且你必须善待她。无论你对埃德加先生有什么看法，你都不能怀疑她有强烈的依恋能力，否则她不会放弃她故乡的优雅、舒适和朋友，心满意足地定居在这样的荒野中。这个，和你一起。

‘She abandoned them under a delusion,’ he answered; ‘picturing in me a hero of romance, and expecting unlimited indulgences from my chivalrous devotion. I can hardly regard her in the light of a rational creature, so obstinately has she persisted in forming a fabulous notion of my character and acting on the false impressions she cherished. But, at last, I think she begins to know me: I don’t perceive the silly smiles and grimaces that provoked me at first; and the senseless incapability of discerning that I was in earnest when I gave her my opinion of her infatuation and herself. It was a marvellous effort of perspicacity to discover that I did not love her. I believed, at one time, no lessons could teach her that! And yet it is poorly learnt; for this morning she announced, as a piece of appalling intelligence, that I had actually succeeded in making her hate me! A positive labour of Hercules, I assure you! If it be achieved, I have cause to return thanks. Can I trust your assertion, Isabella? Are you sure you hate me? If I let you alone for half a day, won’t you come sighing and wheedling to me again? I daresay she would rather I had seemed all tenderness before you: it wounds her vanity to have the truth exposed. But I don’t care who knows that the passion was wholly on one side: and I never told her a lie about it. She cannot accuse me of showing one bit of deceitful softness. The first thing she saw me do, on coming out of the Grange, was to hang up her little dog; and when she pleaded for it, the first words I uttered were a wish that I had the hanging of every being belonging to her, except one: possibly she took that exception for herself. But no brutality disgusted her: I suppose she has an innate admiration of it, if only her precious person were secure from injury! Now, was it not the depth of absurdity of genuine idiotcy, for that pitiful, slavish, mean-minded brach to dream that I could love her? Tell your master, Nelly, that I never, in all my life, met with such an abject thing as she is. She even disgraces the name of Linton; and I’ve sometimes relented, from pure lack of invention, in my experiments on what she could endure, and still creep shamefully cringing back! But tell him, also, to set his fraternal and magisterial heart at ease: that I keep strictly within the limits of the law. I have avoided, up to this period, giving her the slightest right to claim a separation; and, what’s more, she’d thank nobody for dividing us. If she desired to go, she might: the nuisance of her presence outweighs the gratification to be derived from tormenting her!’
“她在妄想中抛弃了他们，”他回答道。 “在我身上描绘出一位浪漫的英雄，并期待着我的侠义奉献带来无限的放纵。”我几乎无法用理性的眼光来看待她，所以她固执地坚持对我的性格形成一种神话般的观念，并根据她所珍视的错误印象行事。但是，最后，我想她开始了解我了：我没有意识到最初激怒我的愚蠢的微笑和鬼脸；我没有注意到她的表情。当我向她表达对她的迷恋和她自己的看法时，我毫无意识地无法辨别出我是认真的。我费了九牛二虎之力才发现我并不爱她。我一度相信，没有任何课程可以教会她这一点！但它却学得很少；今天早上她宣布，作为一个令人震惊的情报，我实际上已经成功地让她恨我了！我向你保证，赫拉克勒斯的积极成果！如果它能实现，我有理由回报感谢。我可以相信你的说法吗，伊莎贝拉？你确定你讨厌我吗？如果我放你半天，你不会又来叹息哄我吗？我敢说她宁愿我在你面前显得温柔：暴露真相会伤害她的虚荣心。但我不在乎谁知道我的热情完全是一方面：而且我从未对她撒过谎。她不能指责我表现出一丝欺骗性的温柔。从农庄出来后，她看到我做的第一件事就是把她的小狗挂起来。当她恳求时，我说的第一句话就是希望我能绞死属于她的每一个生命，除了一个：可能她自己也接受了这个例外。 但她并没有厌恶任何残暴行为：我想她对此有一种与生俱来的钦佩，如果她珍贵的人能够免受伤害就好了！那个可怜的、奴性的、卑鄙的女人竟然梦想我能爱她，这难道不是真正的白痴的荒谬吗？告诉你的主人，耐莉，我这辈子从来没有遇到过像她这样卑鄙的人。她甚至玷污了林惇的名誉。有时我会因为纯粹缺乏创意而心软，在我对她能忍受什么的实验中，但仍然可耻地畏缩不前！但也要告诉他，让他的兄弟般和权威的心放心：我严格遵守法律的范围。到目前为止，我一直避免给予她哪怕一丁点要求分居的权利。而且，更重要的是，她不会感谢任何人分裂我们。如果她想去的话，她可以：她的存在所带来的麻烦超过了折磨她所带来的满足感！’

‘Mr. Heathcliff,’ said I, ‘this is the talk of a madman; your wife, most likely, is convinced you are mad; and, for that reason, she has borne with you hitherto: but now that you say she may go, she’ll doubtless avail herself of the permission. You are not so bewitched, ma’am, are you, as to remain with him of your own accord?’
'先生。希刺克厉夫，”我说，“这是疯子的胡言乱语；你的妻子很可能确信你疯了；出于这个原因，她迄今为止一直容忍着你：但现在你说她可以走了，她无疑会利用你的许可。女士，您不会如此着迷，自愿留在他身边吧？

‘Take care, Ellen!’ answered Isabella, her eyes sparkling irefully; there was no misdoubting by their expression the full success of her partner’s endeavours to make himself detested. ‘Don’t put faith in a single word he speaks. He’s a lying fiend! a monster, and not a human being! I’ve been told I might leave him before; and I’ve made the attempt, but I dare not repeat it! Only, Ellen, promise you’ll not mention a syllable of his infamous conversation to my brother or Catherine. Whatever he may pretend, he wishes to provoke Edgar to desperation: he says he has married me on purpose to obtain power over him; and he sha’n’t obtain it I’ll die first! I just hope, I pray, that he may forget his diabolical prudence and kill me! The single pleasure I can imagine is to die, or to see him dead!’
“小心点，艾伦！”伊莎贝拉回答道，她的眼睛里闪烁着愤怒的光芒。从他们的表情来看，她的伴侣使自己受到憎恶的努力已经完全成功。 ‘不要相信他所说的任何一句话。他是一个说谎的恶魔！是怪物，不是人！我之前就被告知我可能会离开他；我已经尝试过，但我不敢再重复！只是，艾伦，保证你不会向我哥哥或凯瑟琳提起他臭名昭著的谈话的一个音节。无论他如何假装，他都想激怒埃德加，让他陷入绝望：他说他娶我是为了获得对他的权力；他说他是故意的。他得不到，我就先死！我只是希望，我祈祷，他会忘记他那恶魔般的谨慎，杀了我！我能想象到的唯一的快乐就是死，或者看到他死！

‘There that will do for the present!’ said Heathcliff. ‘If you are called upon in a court of law, you’ll remember her language, Nelly! And take a good look at that countenance: she’s near the point which would suit me. No; you’re not fit to be your own guardian, Isabella, now; and I, being your legal protector, must retain you in my custody, however distasteful the obligation may be. Go up-stairs; I have something to say to Ellen Dean in private. That’s not the way: up-stairs, I tell you! Why, this is the road upstairs, child!’
“现在就这样了！”希刺克厉夫说。 “如果你被传唤到法庭，你会记住她的语言，耐莉！仔细看看那张脸：她已经接近适合我的点了。不;伊莎贝拉，你现在不适合做自己的监护人；而我，作为你的合法保护人，必须将你留在我的监护之下，无论这个义务有多么令人厌恶。上楼去;我有话要私下对艾伦·迪恩说。不是这样的：楼上的，我告诉你！哎呀，这就是楼上的路，孩子！

He seized, and thrust her from the room; and returned muttering ‘I have no pity! I have no pity! The more the worms writhe, the more I yearn to crush out their entrails! It is a moral teething; and I grind with greater energy in proportion to the increase of pain.’
他抓住她，把她从房间里推了出去。回来时嘟哝着‘我没有怜悯！我没有怜悯！虫子越是扭动，我就越想捏碎它们的内脏！这是道德上的磨合；随着疼痛的增加，我会用更大的精力磨牙。

‘Do you understand what the word pity means?’ I said, hastening to resume my bonnet. ‘Did you ever feel a touch of it in your life?’
“你明白怜悯这个词的意思吗？”我说，赶紧摘下帽子。 “你一生中感受到过这种感觉吗？”

‘Put that down!’ he interrupted, perceiving my intention to depart. ‘You are not going yet. Come here now, Nelly: I must either persuade or compel you to aid me in fulfilling my determination to see Catherine, and that without delay. I swear that I meditate no harm: I don’t desire to cause any disturbance, or to exasperate or insult Mr. Linton; I only wish to hear from herself how she is, and why she has been ill; and to ask if anything that I could do would be of use to her. Last night I was in the Grange garden six hours, and I’ll return there to-night; and every night I’ll haunt the place, and every day, till I find an opportunity of entering. If Edgar Linton meets me, I shall not hesitate to knock him down, and give him enough to insure his quiescence while I stay. If his servants oppose me, I shall threaten them off with these pistols. But wouldn’t it be better to prevent my coming in contact with them, or their master? And you could do it so easily. I’d warn you when I came, and then you might let me in unobserved, as soon as she was alone, and watch till I departed, your conscience quite calm: you would be hindering mischief.’
“把它放下！”他察觉到我打算离开，打断了我的话。 ‘你还不走。现在到这里来，耐莉：我必须说服或强迫你帮助我实现我去见凯瑟琳的决心，而且不能拖延。我发誓我无意造成任何伤害：我不想引起任何骚乱，或者激怒或侮辱林惇先生；我只想听听她的情况，以及她为什么生病；并询问我能做的任何事对她是否有用。昨晚我在田庄花园呆了六个小时，今晚我会回到那里；每天晚上我都会在这个地方出没，每天都会出没，直到我找到进入的机会。如果埃德加·林顿遇见我，我会毫不犹豫地把他打倒，并给他足够的钱，以确保他在我留下来时保持安静。如果他的仆人反对我，我就用这些手枪威胁他们。但不让我接触他们，或者他们的主人不是更好吗？你可以很容易地做到这一点。我来的时候会警告你，然后等她独自一人的时候，你就可以让我在不被发现的情况下进去，然后看着我离开，你的良心很平静：你会阻止恶作剧。

I protested against playing that treacherous part in my employer’s house: and, besides, I urged the cruelty and selfishness of his destroying Mrs. Linton’s tranquillity for his satisfaction. ‘The commonest occurrence startles her painfully,’ I said. ‘She’s all nerves, and she couldn’t bear the surprise, I’m positive. Don’t persist, sir! or else I shall be obliged to inform my master of your designs; and he’ll take measures to secure his house and its inmates from any such unwarrantable intrusions!’
我抗议在我雇主家里扮演那个奸诈的角色：此外，我还指出他为了满足自己而破坏林惇太太的平静是残忍和自私的。 “最常见的事情都会让她感到痛苦，”我说。 “她很紧张，她无法承受这个惊喜，我敢肯定。别再坚持了，先生！否则我将不得不将你的设计告知我的主人；他会采取措施保护他的房子和里面的人免受任何此类无理的入侵！

‘In that case I’ll take measures to secure you, woman!’ exclaimed Heathcliff; ‘you shall not leave Wuthering Heights till to-morrow morning. It is a foolish story to assert that Catherine could not bear to see me; and as to surprising her, I don’t desire it: you must prepare her ask her if I may come. You say she never mentions my name, and that I am never mentioned to her. To whom should she mention me if I am a forbidden topic in the house? She thinks you are all spies for her husband. Oh, I’ve no doubt she’s in hell among you! I guess by her silence, as much as anything, what she feels. You say she is often restless, and anxiouslooking: is that a proof of tranquillity? You talk of her mind being unsettled. How the devil could it be otherwise in her frightful isolation? And that insipid, paltry creature attending her from DUTY and HUMANITY! From PITY and CHARITY! He might as well plant an oak in a flower-pot, and expect it to thrive, as imagine he can restore her to vigour in the soil of his shallow cares? Let us settle it at once: will you stay here, and am I to fight my way to Catherine over Linton and his footman? Or will you be my friend, as you have been hitherto, and do what I request? Decide! because there is no reason for my lingering another minute, if you persist in your stubborn ill-nature!’
“既然如此，我会采取措施保护你的，女人！”希刺克厉夫大声说道。 “明天早上之前你不能离开呼啸山庄。”断言凯瑟琳不忍心见我是一个愚蠢的故事。至于让她感到惊讶，我不希望这样：你必须让她做好准备，问她我是否可以来。你说她从来没有提到过我的名字，也没有人向她提起过我。如果我是家里的禁忌话题，她应该向谁提起我呢？她认为你们都是她丈夫的间谍。哦，我毫不怀疑她在你们中间就是地狱！我从她的沉默中猜出了她的感受。你说她常常焦躁不安，神色焦急，这就是平静的证明吗？你说她心神不安。在她可怕的孤立中怎么可能不是这样呢？还有那个平淡无奇、微不足道的生物，从责任和人性中照顾她！来自怜悯和慈善！他不妨在花盆里种一棵橡树，期待它茁壮成长，想象一下他能让她在他浅薄的关怀的土壤中恢复活力吗？让我们立即解决这个问题：你愿意留在这里吗？我要为林惇和他的随从而战，找到凯瑟琳吗？或者你会像迄今为止一样成为我的朋友并按照我的要求做吗？决定！因为如果你坚持你顽固的邪恶本性，我就没有理由再多逗留一分钟！

Well, Mr. Lockwood, I argued and complained, and flatly refused him fifty times; but in the long run he forced me to an agreement. I engaged to carry a letter from him to my mistress; and should she consent, I promised to let him have intelligence of Linton’s next absence from home, when he might come, and get in as he was able: I wouldn’t be there, and my fellow-servants should be equally out of the way. Was it right or wrong? I fear it was wrong, though expedient. I thought I prevented another explosion by my compliance; and I thought, too, it might create a favourable crisis in Catherine’s mental illness: and then I remembered Mr. Edgar’s stern rebuke of my carrying tales; and I tried to smooth away all disquietude on the subject, by affirming, with frequent iteration, that that betrayal of trust, if it merited so harsh an appellation, should be the last. Notwithstanding, my journey homeward was sadder than my journey thither; and many misgivings I had, ere I could prevail on myself to put the missive into Mrs. Linton’s hand.
好吧，洛克伍德先生，我争论过，抱怨过，断然拒绝了他五十次；但从长远来看，他强迫我达成协议。我答应把他的一封信带给我的情妇。如果她同意，我答应让他知道林惇下次不在家的消息，他什么时候会来，并尽可能地进去：我不会在那里，我的仆人同伴也应该同样不在家。方式。这是对还是错？我担心这是错误的，尽管这是权宜之计。我以为我的顺从阻止了另一次爆炸；我还想，这可能会给凯瑟琳的精神疾病带来有利的危机：然后我想起了埃德加先生对我的故事的严厉斥责；我试图消除对这个问题的所有不安，通过频繁重申，对信任的背叛，如果它值得如此严厉的称呼，应该是最后一次。尽管如此，我回家的旅程比去那里的旅程更加悲伤。在我说服自己把信交到林惇夫人手里之前，我心里有很多疑虑。

But here is Kenneth; I’ll go down, and tell him how much better you are. My history is DREE, as we say, and will serve to while away another morning.
但这是肯尼思；我会下去告诉他你好多了。正如我们所说，我的历史是DREE，将有助于消磨另一个早晨。

Dree, and dreary! I reflected as the good woman descended to receive the doctor: and not exactly of the kind which I should have chosen to amuse me. But never mind! I’ll extract wholesome medicines from Mrs. Dean’s bitter herbs; and firstly, let me beware of the fascination that lurks in Catherine Heathcliff’s brilliant eyes. I should be in a curious taking if I surrendered my heart to that young person, and the daughter turned out a second edition of the mother.
德雷，沉闷！当这位好心的女人下来迎接医生时，我反思道：这并不是我应该选择取笑的那种。但是不要紧！我会从迪恩夫人的苦草中提取有益健康的药物；首先，让我留意凯瑟琳·希斯克利夫明亮的眼睛中潜藏的魅力。如果我把心交给那个年轻人，而女儿却变成了母亲的第二版，我会感到很奇怪。

Chapter XV
第十五章

ANOTHER week over and I am so many days nearer health, and spring! I have now heard all my neighbour’s history, at different sittings, as the housekeeper could spare time from more important occupations. I’ll continue it in her own words, only a little condensed. She is, on the whole, a very fair narrator, and I don’t think I could improve her style.
又一周过去了，我距离健康和春天又近了很多天！我现在已经在不同的场合听到了我邻居的所有历史，因为管家可以从更重要的事情中抽出时间。我将用她自己的话继续说，只是稍微简洁一些。总的来说，她是一个非常公正的叙述者，我认为我无法改进她的风格。

In the evening, she said, the evening of my visit to the Heights, I knew, as well as if I saw him, that Mr. Heathcliff was about the place; and I shunned going out, because I still carried his letter in my pocket, and didn’t want to be threatened or teased any more. I had made up my mind not to give it till my master went somewhere, as I could not guess how its receipt would affect Catherine. The consequence was, that it did not reach her before the lapse of three days. The fourth was Sunday, and I brought it into her room after the family were gone to church. There was a manservant left to keep the house with me, and we generally made a practice of locking the doors during the hours of service; but on that occasion the weather was so warm and pleasant that I set them wide open, and, to fulfil my engagement, as I knew who would be coming, I told my companion that the mistress wished very much for some oranges, and he must run over to the village and get a few, to be paid for on the morrow. He departed, and I went up-stairs.
她说，那天晚上，我去高地的那天晚上，我知道希刺克厉夫先生就在附近，就好像我看到了他一样。我也不敢出门，因为我的口袋里还揣着他的信，不想再受到威胁或嘲笑。我决定在我的主人去某个地方之前不要把它交给我，因为我无法猜测收到它会对凯瑟琳产生什么影响。结果，三天过去了，她还没有收到。第四个是周日，家人去教堂后我把它带到了她的房间。留下了一个男仆来帮我看管房子，我们通常会在服务时间锁上门；但那一次，天气如此温暖宜人，我把它们打开了，为了履行我的约定，因为我知道谁会来，我告诉我的同伴，女主人非常想要一些橙子，他必须跑到村里去买一些，明天付钱。他走了，我就上楼了。

Mrs. Linton sat in a loose white dress, with a light shawl over her shoulders, in the recess of the open window, as usual. Her thick, long hair had been partly removed at the beginning of her illness, and now she wore it simply combed in its natural tresses over her temples and neck. Her appearance was altered, as I had told Heathcliff; but when she was calm, there seemed unearthly beauty in the change. The flash of her eyes had been succeeded by a dreamy and melancholy softness; they no longer gave the impression of looking at the objects around her: they appeared always to gaze beyond, and far beyond you would have said out of this world. Then, the paleness of her face its haggard aspect having vanished as she recovered flesh and the peculiar expression arising from her mental state, though painfully suggestive of their causes, added to the touching interest which she awakened; and invariably to me, I know, and to any person who saw her, I should think refuted more tangible proofs of convalescence, and stamped her as one doomed to decay.
林惇太太像往常一样坐在开着的窗户的凹处，穿着一件宽松的白色连衣裙，肩上披着一条浅色围巾。患病之初，她浓密的长发被部分剪掉，现在她只是将自然的发束梳理在太阳穴和脖子上。正如我告诉希斯克利夫的那样，她的外表发生了变化。但当她平静下来时，这种变化却显得异常美丽。她的眼神闪烁着光芒，随之而来的是一种梦幻般的、忧郁的温柔。他们不再给人一种注视着她周围物体的印象：他们似乎总是凝视着远处，远远超出了你所说的这个世界。然后，随着她恢复了肉体，她脸上的苍白和憔悴的样子消失了，她精神状态中出现的奇特表情，虽然痛苦地暗示了这些原因，但增加了她唤醒的感人兴趣；我知道，对我来说，对任何见过她的人来说，我都应该认为驳斥了更具体的康复证据，并将她视为注定要腐烂的人。

A book lay spread on the sill before her, and the scarcely perceptible wind fluttered its leaves at intervals. I believe Linton had laid it there: for she never endeavoured to divert herself with reading, or occupation of any kind, and he would spend many an hour in trying to entice her attention to some subject which had formerly been her amusement. She was conscious of his aim, and in her better moods endured his efforts placidly, only showing their uselessness by now and then suppressing a wearied sigh, and checking him at last with the saddest of smiles and kisses. At other times, she would turn petulantly away, and hide her face in her hands, or even push him off angrily; and then he took care to let her alone, for he was certain of doing no good.
她面前的窗台上铺着一本书，微风不时地吹动书页。我相信林惇已经把它放在那里了：因为她从来没有试图用读书或任何种类的事情来转移自己的注意力，他会花很多小时试图吸引她的注意力到以前她感兴趣的某个主题上。她意识到他的目的，心情好一点的时候，平静地忍受着他的努力，只是时不时地表现出这些努力毫无用处，然后压抑着疲倦的叹息，最后用最悲伤的微笑和亲吻来检查他。有时，她会脾气暴躁地转过身去，用手捂住脸，甚至生气地推开他；有时，她会生气地把他推开。然后他小心翼翼地不让她一个人呆着，因为他确信这样做不会有什么好处。

Gimmerton chapel bells were still ringing; and the full, mellow flow of the beck in the valley came soothingly on the ear. It was a sweet substitute for the yet absent murmur of the summer foliage, which drowned that music about the Grange when the trees were in leaf. At Wuthering Heights it always sounded on quiet days following a great thaw or a season of steady rain. And of Wuthering Heights Catherine was thinking as she listened: that is, if she thought or listened at all; but she had the vague, distant look I mentioned before, which expressed no recognition of material things either by ear or eye.
吉默顿教堂的钟声仍在响起。山谷里的小溪浑厚、醇厚的水流传入耳中，令人心旷神怡。它是夏季树叶的低语声的甜蜜替代品，当树木长出叶子时，夏天树叶的低语声淹没了田庄的音乐。在呼啸山庄，它总是在大雪融化或持续下雨后的安静日子里响起。凯瑟琳边听边思考《呼啸山庄》：也就是说，如果她真的思考或倾听的话；但她有着我之前提到过的那种模糊、疏远的表情，这表明无论是耳朵还是眼睛都没有意识到物质的存在。

‘There’s a letter for you, Mrs. Linton,’ I said, gently inserting it in one hand that rested on her knee. ‘You must read it immediately, because it wants an answer. Shall I break the seal?’ ‘Yes,’ she answered, without altering the direction of her eyes. I opened it it was very short. ‘Now,’ I continued, ‘read it.’ She drew away her hand, and let it fall. I replaced it in her lap, and stood waiting till it should please her to glance down; but that movement was so long delayed that at last I resumed ‘Must I read it, ma’am? It is from Mr. Heathcliff.’
“林惇夫人，这是给你的一封信。”我轻轻地将信塞进放在她膝盖上的一只手中。 ‘你必须立即阅读它，因为它需要答案。我要打破封印吗？” “是的，”她回答道，眼睛的方向没有改变。我打开它，它很短。 “现在，”我继续说道，“读一下。”她抽开手，又放下了。我把它放回她的腿上，站在那里等着，直到她高兴地往下看。但那个动作被拖延了太久，最后我又继续说道：“我必须读它吗，女士？”这是希刺克厉夫先生寄来的。

There was a start and a troubled gleam of recollection, and a struggle to arrange her ideas. She lifted the letter, and seemed to peruse it; and when she came to the signature she sighed: yet still I found she had not gathered its import, for, upon my desiring to hear her reply, she merely pointed to the name, and gazed at me with mournful and questioning eagerness.
她吃了一惊，回忆中闪现出一丝困扰，并努力整理自己的想法。她拿起信，似乎在细读。当她看到签名时，她叹了口气：但我仍然发现她没有明白其中的含义，因为当我想听她的答复时，她只是指着名字，并用悲伤和询问的热切目光看着我。

‘Well, he wishes to see you,’ said I, guessing her need of an interpreter. ‘He’s in the garden by this time, and impatient to know what answer I shall bring.’
“嗯，他想见你，”我猜到她需要翻译，说道。 “这个时候他已经在花园里了，迫不及待地想知道我会带来什么答案。”

As I spoke, I observed a large dog lying on the sunny grass beneath raise its ears as if about to bark, and then smoothing them back, announce, by a wag of the tail, that some one approached whom it did not consider a stranger. Mrs. Linton bent forward, and listened breathlessly. The minute after a step traversed the hall; the open house was too tempting for Heathcliff to resist walking in: most likely he supposed that I was inclined to shirk my promise, and so resolved to trust to his own audacity. With straining eagerness Catherine gazed towards the entrance of her chamber. He did not hit the right room directly: she motioned me to admit him, but he found it out ere I could reach the door, and in a stride or two was at her side, and had her grasped in his arms.
当我说话的时候，我看到一只大狗躺在下面阳光明媚的草地上，它竖起耳朵，好像要吠叫，然后把它们放回去，通过摇尾巴宣布有人走近，它并不认为这是一个陌生人。 。林顿夫人向前倾身，屏息凝神地听着。紧接着，一阵脚步声穿过大厅；开放日对希斯克利夫来说太诱人了，无法抗拒走进去：很可能他认为我倾向于逃避我的诺言，因此决定相信他自己的大胆。凯瑟琳焦急地注视着她房间的入口。他没有直接撞到正确的房间：她示意我进去，但我还没到门口，他就发现了，一两步就到了她身边，把她搂在怀里。

He neither spoke nor loosed his hold for some five minutes, during which period he bestowed more kisses than ever he gave in his life before, I daresay: but then my mistress had kissed him first, and I plainly saw that he could hardly bear, for downright agony, to look into her face! The same conviction had stricken him as me, from the instant he beheld her, that there was no prospect of ultimate recovery there she was fated, sure to die.
在大约五分钟的时间里，他既没有说话，也没有松开手，在这段时间里，我敢说，在这段时间里，他比以往任何时候都亲吻了他：但后来我的情妇先吻了他，我清楚地看到他几乎无法忍受，为了彻头彻尾的痛苦，看着她的脸！从他看到她的那一刻起，他和我一样坚信，她注定要死，没有最终康复的希望。

‘Oh, Cathy! Oh, my life! how can I bear it?’ was the first sentence he uttered, in a tone that did not seek to disguise his despair. And now he stared at her so earnestly that I thought the very intensity of his gaze would bring tears into his eyes; but they burned with anguish: they did not melt.
哦，凯茜！哦，我的生活！我怎么能忍受呢？”这是他说出的第一句话，语气中毫不掩饰他的绝望。现在他如此认真地凝视着她，我想他的目光如此强烈，他的眼睛里一定会流下泪水。但它们却因痛苦而燃烧：它们没有融化。

‘What now?’ said Catherine, leaning back, and returning his look with a suddenly clouded brow: her humour was a mere vane for constantly varying caprices. ‘You and Edgar have broken my heart, Heathcliff! And you both come to bewail the deed to me, as if you were the people to be pitied! I shall not pity you, not I. You have killed me and thriven on it, I think. How strong you are! How many years do you mean to live after I am gone?’
“现在怎么办？”凯瑟琳向后靠了靠，用突然阴沉的眉头回应了他的目光：她的幽默只不过是不断变化的任性行为的风向标。 “你和埃德加伤了我的心，希刺克厉夫！”你们俩都来向我哀悼，好像你们是值得怜悯的人一样！我不会怜悯你，也不会怜悯我。我想，你已经杀了我，并因此而茁壮成长。你多么坚强啊！我死后你还想活多少年？

Heathcliff had knelt on one knee to embrace her; he attempted to rise, but she seized his hair, and kept him down.
希刺克厉夫单膝跪下拥抱她。他试图站起来，但她抓住他的头发，把他压倒。

‘I wish I could hold you,’ she continued, bitterly, ‘till we were both dead! I shouldn’t care what you suffered. I care nothing for your sufferings. Why shouldn’t you suffer? I do! Will you forget me? Will you be happy when I am in the earth? Will you say twenty years hence, ‘That’s the grave of Catherine Earnshaw? I loved her long ago, and was wretched to lose her; but it is past. I’ve loved many others since: my children are dearer to me than she was; and, at death, I shall not rejoice that I are going to her: I shall be sorry that I must leave them!’ Will you say so, Heathcliff?’
“我希望我能抱着你，”她痛苦地继续说道，“直到我们都死了！”我不应该关心你所受的苦。我不在乎你的痛苦。为什么你不应该受苦？我愿意！你会忘记我吗？当我在地球上的时候你会幸福吗？二十年后你会说，‘那是凯瑟琳·恩肖的坟墓吗？我很久以前就爱过她，但失去她我感到很不幸；但这已经过去了。从那时起，我爱了很多人：我的孩子比她更爱我；到死的时候，我不会因为要去她那里而感到高兴：我会因为必须离开他们而感到遗憾！”你会这么说吗，希刺克厉夫？”

‘Don’t torture me till I’m as mad as yourself,’ cried he, wrenching his head free, and grinding his teeth.
“别折磨我，直到我像你一样生气。”他喊道，扭开头，咬紧牙关。

The two, to a cool spectator, made a strange and fearful picture. Well might Catherine deem that heaven would be a land of exile to her, unless with her mortal body she cast away her moral character also. Her present countenance had a wild vindictiveness in its white cheek, and a bloodless lip and scintillating eye; and she retained in her closed fingers a portion of the locks she had been grasping. As to her companion, while raising himself with one hand, he had taken her arm with the other; and so inadequate was his stock of gentleness to the requirements of her condition, that on his letting go I saw four distinct impressions left blue in the colourless skin.
对于冷静的旁观者来说，这两个人构成了一幅奇怪而可怕的画面。凯瑟琳很可能认为天堂对她来说将是一个流放之地，除非她也用她的凡人的身体抛弃了她的道德品格。她现在的面容是苍白的脸颊、毫无血色的嘴唇和闪烁的眼睛，充满了疯狂的斗气。她握紧的手指里还保留着她一直抓着的那把锁的一部分。至于她的同伴，他一只手抬起身来，另一只手握住了她的手臂；他的温柔不足以满足她病情的要求，以至于当他放手时，我看到在无色的皮肤上留下了四个明显的蓝色印象。

‘Are you possessed with a devil,’ he pursued, savagely, ‘to talk in that manner to me when you are dying? Do you reflect that all those words will be branded in my memory, and eating deeper eternally after you have left me? You know you lie to say I have killed you: and, Catherine, you know that I could as soon forget you as my existence! Is it not sufficient for your infernal selfishness, that while you are at peace I shall writhe in the torments of hell?’
“你是不是被魔鬼附身了，”他野蛮地追问，“在你快死的时候用这种方式对我说话？你有没有想过，当你离开我之后，所有这些话都会烙印在我的记忆里，永远深深地烙印在我的记忆里？你知道你撒谎说我杀了你：而且，凯瑟琳，你知道我会尽快忘记你，就像忘记我的存在一样！当你安息的时候，我却在地狱的折磨中翻滚，难道你的自私还不够吗？

‘I shall not be at peace,’ moaned Catherine, recalled to a sense of physical weakness by the violent, unequal throbbing of her heart, which beat visibly and audibly under this excess of agitation. She said nothing further till the paroxysm was over; then she continued, more kindly -
“我不会平静，”凯瑟琳呻吟道，她的心脏在剧烈的、不均匀的跳动中回想起一种身体虚弱的感觉，在这种过度的激动下，心脏明显地、可听见地跳动。她没有再说什么，直到发作结束。然后她更加友善地继续说道——

‘I’m not wishing you greater torment than I have, Heathcliff. I only wish us never to be parted: and should a word of mine distress you hereafter, think I feel the same distress underground, and for my own sake, forgive me! Come here and kneel down again! You never harmed me in your life. Nay, if you nurse anger, that will be worse to remember than my harsh words! Won’t you come here again? Do!’
“我不希望你受到比我更大的折磨，希刺克厉夫。我只希望我们永不分离：如果我的一句话让你今后感到痛苦，想像我在地下也有同样的痛苦，为了我自己，请原谅我！过来再跪一下吧！你这辈子从来没有伤害过我。不，如果你怀有愤怒，那就比我的严厉话语更难记住！你不会再来这里吗？做！'

Heathcliff went to the back of her chair, and leant over, but not so far as to let her see his face, which was livid with emotion. She bent round to look at him; he would not permit it: turning abruptly, he walked to the fireplace, where he stood, silent, with his back towards us. Mrs. Linton’s glance followed him suspiciously: every movement woke a new sentiment in her. After a pause and a prolonged gaze, she resumed; addressing me in accents of indignant disappointment:-
希刺克厉夫走到她的椅背上，倾身过去，但没有让她看到他因激动而脸色铁青的脸。她弯下身子看着他。他不允许这样做：他突然转身，走向壁炉，背对着我们，一言不发地站在那里。林惇夫人狐疑地扫视着他：每一个动作都唤醒了她一种新的情感。停顿了一下，长时间凝视之后，她又继续说道。用愤怒失望的语气对我说话：-

‘Oh, you see, Nelly, he would not relent a moment to keep me out of the grave. THAT is how I’m loved! Well, never mind. That is not MY Heathcliff. I shall love mine yet; and take him with me: he’s in my soul. And,’ added she musingly, ‘the thing that irks me most is this shattered prison, after all. I’m tired of being enclosed here. I’m wearying to escape into that glorious world, and to be always there: not seeing it dimly through tears, and yearning for it through the walls of an aching heart: but really with it, and in it. Nelly, you think you are better and more fortunate than I; in full health and strength: you are sorry for me very soon that will be altered. I shall be sorry for YOU. I shall be incomparably beyond and above you all. I WONDER he won’t be near me!’ She went on to herself. ‘I thought he wished it. Heathcliff, dear! you should not be sullen now. Do come to me, Heathcliff.’
“哦，你看，耐莉，他一刻也不会松懈，不让我走出坟墓。这就是我被爱的方式！好吧，没关系。那不是我的希斯克利夫。我仍会爱我的；带上他一起走：他在我的灵魂里。而且，”她若有所思地补充道，“毕竟，最让我恼火的是这座破碎的监狱。我厌倦了被关在这里。我厌倦了逃入那个辉煌的世界，并永远在那里：不是通过泪水模糊地看到它，也不是透过痛苦的心墙向往它：而是真正与它在一起，在其中。耐莉，你认为你比我更好、更幸运；身体健康、体力充沛：你很快就会为我感到难过，这种情况很快就会改变。我会为你感到难过。我将无比超越你们所有人。我想知道他不会靠近我！”她继续说道。 “我以为他希望如此。希斯克利夫，亲爱的！你现在不应该闷闷不乐。来找我吧，希斯克利夫。

In her eagerness she rose and supported herself on the arm of the chair. At that earnest appeal he turned to her, looking absolutely desperate. His eyes, wide and wet, at last flashed fiercely on her; his breast heaved convulsively. An instant they held asunder, and then how they met I hardly saw, but Catherine made a spring, and he caught her, and they were locked in an embrace from which I thought my mistress would never be released alive: in fact, to my eyes, she seemed directly insensible. He flung himself into the nearest seat, and on my approaching hurriedly to ascertain if she had fainted, he gnashed at me, and foamed like a mad dog, and gathered her to him with greedy jealousy. I did not feel as if I were in the company of a creature of my own species: it appeared that he would not understand, though I spoke to him; so I stood off, and held my tongue, in great perplexity.
她急切地站起来，靠在椅子的扶手上。听到那恳切的恳求，他转向她，看上去完全绝望了。他的眼睛睁得大大的，湿漉漉的，最后凶狠地射到了她身上。他的胸部痉挛地起伏着。他们立刻分开了，然后他们是如何相遇的，我几乎看不到，但是凯瑟琳跳了起来，他抓住了她，他们被锁在一个拥抱中，我以为我的情妇永远不会活着被释放：事实上，对我来说眼神里，她似乎直接就没有知觉了。他猛地坐到最近的座位上，当我急忙走近以确定她是否晕倒时，他对我咬牙切齿，像疯狗一样口吐白沫，并带着贪婪的嫉妒将她抱到他身边。我不觉得自己是在和自己同类的生物在一起：尽管我对他说话，他似乎听不懂；但他似乎听不懂。于是我站了起来，非常困惑地闭嘴了。

A movement of Catherine’s relieved me a little presently: she put up her hand to clasp his neck, and bring her cheek to his as he held her; while he, in return, covering her with frantic caresses, said wildly -
凯瑟琳的一个动作很快让我松了口气：她举起手搂住他的脖子，当他抱着她时，她把脸颊贴在他的脸上；她的脸颊贴在他的脸上。而他则用疯狂的爱抚回应她，疯狂地说——

‘You teach me now how cruel you’ve been cruel and false. WHY did you despise me? WHY did you betray your own heart, Cathy? I have not one word of comfort. You deserve this. You have killed yourself. Yes, you may kiss me, and cry; and wring out my kisses and tears: they’ll blight you they’ll damn you. You loved me then what RIGHT had you to leave me? What right answer me for the poor fancy you felt for Linton? Because misery and degradation, and death, and nothing that God or Satan could inflict would have parted us, YOU, of your own will, did it. I have not broken your heart YOU have broken it; and in breaking it, you have broken mine. So much the worse for me that I am strong. Do I want to live? What kind of living will it be when you oh, God! would YOU like to live with your soul in the grave?’
‘你现在告诉我，你是多么残忍和虚伪。你为什么鄙视我？凯茜，你为什么背叛自己的心？我没有一句安慰的话。这是你应得的。你已经自杀了。是的，你可以吻我，然后哭泣；拧干我的亲吻和泪水：它们会毁掉你，它们会诅咒你。你爱我那么你有什么权利离开我？对于你对林顿的可怜的幻想，什么正确的答案？因为苦难、堕落、死亡，以及上帝或撒旦所能造成的任何事情都无法将我们分开，所以你，自愿这么做了。我没有伤你的心，是你伤了它；当你打破它时，你也打破了我的。对我来说更糟糕的是我很坚强。我想活下去吗？当你哦，上帝啊，那会是怎样的生活呢？你愿意和你的灵魂一起生活在坟墓里吗？

‘Let me alone. Let me alone,’ sobbed Catherine. ‘If I’ve done wrong, I’m dying for it. It is enough! You left me too: but I won’t upbraid you! I forgive you. Forgive me!’
'让我一个人静一下。让我一个人呆着吧，”凯瑟琳抽泣着。 ‘如果我做错了，我会为此而死。够了！你也离开了我：但我不会责备你！我原谅你。对不起！'

‘It is hard to forgive, and to look at those eyes, and feel those wasted hands,’ he answered. ‘Kiss me again; and don’t let me see your eyes! I forgive what you have done to me. I love MY murderer but YOURS! How can I?’
“看着那些眼睛，感受那些浪费的双手，很难原谅，”他回答道。 '再吻我一次;别让我看到你的眼睛！我原谅你对我所做的一切。我爱我的凶手，但也爱你的凶手！我怎么能够？'

They were silent-their faces hid against each other, and washed by each other’s tears. At least, I suppose the weeping was on both sides; as it seemed Heathcliff could weep on a great occasion like this.
他们沉默不语——他们的脸贴着彼此，被彼此的泪水洗净。至少，我想双方都在哭泣；看来希刺克厉夫在这样的重大场合会落泪。

I grew very uncomfortable, meanwhile; for the afternoon wore fast away, the man whom I had sent off returned from his errand, and I could distinguish, by the shine of the western sun up the valley, a concourse thickening outside Gimmerton chapel porch.
与此同时，我变得非常不舒服。下午很快就过去了，我派去的那个人结束了他的差事，借着山谷西边阳光的照耀，我可以辨认出吉默顿教堂门廊外的广场越来越密集。

‘Service is over,’ I announced. ‘My master will be here in half an hour.’
“服务结束了，”我宣布。 “我的主人半个小时后就会到。”

Heathcliff groaned a curse, and strained Catherine closer: she never moved.
希斯克利夫呻吟着咒骂了一声，把凯瑟琳拉得更紧了：她一动不动。

Ere long I perceived a group of the servants passing up the road towards the kitchen wing. Mr. Linton was not far behind; he opened the gate himself and sauntered slowly up, probably enjoying the lovely afternoon that breathed as soft as summer.
不久，我看到一群仆人沿路朝厨房一侧走过。林惇先生也不甘落后。他自己打开了大门，慢慢地走上楼去，大概是在享受这个夏日般柔和气息的美好午后。

‘Now he is here,’ I exclaimed. ‘For heaven’s sake, hurry down! You’ll not meet any one on the front stairs. Do be quick; and stay among the trees till he is fairly in.’
“现在他来了，”我喊道。 ‘看在上帝的份上，快点下来吧！您不会在前楼梯上遇到任何人。动作要快；待在树林里，直到他完全进去为止。

‘I must go, Cathy,’ said Heathcliff, seeking to extricate himself from his companion’s arms. ‘But if I live, I’ll see you again before you are asleep. I won’t stray five yards from your window.’
“我必须走了，凯茜，”希刺克厉夫说道，试图从同伴的怀抱中挣脱出来。 “但如果我还活着，我会在你睡着之前再次见到你。”我不会离开你的窗户五码。

‘You must not go!’ she answered, holding him as firmly as her strength allowed. ‘You SHALL not, I tell you.’
“你不能走！”她回答道，用尽全力紧紧地抱住他。 “我告诉你，你不可以。”

‘For one hour,’ he pleaded earnestly.
“一小时，”他恳切地恳求道。

‘Not for one minute,’ she replied.
“一分钟都没有，”她回答道。

‘I MUST Linton will be up immediately,’ persisted the alarmed intruder.
“我必须林惇立即起床，”惊慌失措的入侵者坚持道。

He would have risen, and unfixed her fingers by the act she clung fast, gasping: there was mad resolution in her face.
他会站起来，松开她紧紧抓住的手指，气喘吁吁：她的脸上有疯狂的决心。

‘No!’ she shrieked. ‘Oh, don’t, don’t go. It is the last time! Edgar will not hurt us. Heathcliff, I shall die! I shall die!’
“不！”她尖叫道。 ‘噢，别走，别走。这是最后一次了！埃德加不会伤害我们。希刺克厉夫，我要死了！我会死的！

‘Damn the fool! There he is,’ cried Heathcliff, sinking back into his seat. ‘Hush, my darling! Hush, hush, Catherine! I’ll stay. If he shot me so, I’d expire with a blessing on my lips.’
‘该死的傻瓜！他就在那里，”希刺克厉夫喊道，坐回座位上。 ‘嘘，亲爱的！嘘，嘘，凯瑟琳！我会留下来。如果他这样向我开枪，我会带着祝福死去。

And there they were fast again. I heard my master mounting the stairs the cold sweat ran from my forehead: I was horrified.
他们又跑得很快了。我听到主人上楼的声音，额头直冒冷汗：我惊呆了。

‘Are you going to listen to her ravings?’ I said, passionately. ‘She does not know what she says. Will you ruin her, because she has not wit to help herself? Get up! You could be free instantly. That is the most diabolical deed that ever you did. We are all done for master, mistress, and servant.’
“你想听听她的胡言乱语吗？”我热情地说。 ‘她不知道自己在说什么。你会因为她没有自救的智慧而毁掉她吗？起床！你可以立即自由。这是你做过的最邪恶的事。对于主人、情妇和仆人来说，我们都完了。

I wrung my hands, and cried out; and Mr. Linton hastened his step at the noise. In the midst of my agitation, I was sincerely glad to observe that Catherine’s arms had fallen relaxed, and her head hung down.
我绞着双手，大声喊道；听到声音，林惇先生加快了脚步。正当我心烦意乱时，我由衷地高兴地发现凯瑟琳的双臂放松了，头低垂着。

‘She’s fainted, or dead,’ I thought: ‘so much the better. Far better that she should be dead, than lingering a burden and a misery-maker to all about her.’
“她晕倒了，或者死了，”我想，“那就更好了。”她死了比给她周围的人留下负担和痛苦要好得多。

Edgar sprang to his unbidden guest, blanched with astonishment and rage. What he meant to do I cannot tell; however, the other stopped all demonstrations, at once, by placing the lifelesslooking form in his arms.
埃德加跳向这位不速之客，他的脸因惊讶和愤怒而变得苍白。我不知道他想做什么；然而，另一个人立刻停止了所有的示威，将那具毫无生气的尸体放在了自己的怀里。

‘Look there!’ he said. ‘Unless you be a fiend, help her first then you shall speak to me!’
“看那儿！”他说。 “除非你是恶魔，否则先帮她，然后再跟我说话！”

He walked into the parlour, and sat down. Mr. Linton summoned me, and with great difficulty, and after resorting to many means, we managed to restore her to sensation; but she was all bewildered; she sighed, and moaned, and knew nobody. Edgar, in his anxiety for her, forgot her hated friend. I did not. I went, at the earliest opportunity, and besought him to depart; affirming that Catherine was better, and he should hear from me in the morning how she passed the night.
他走进客厅，坐下。林惇先生把我叫来，费了好大劲，用了很多办法，才让她恢复了知觉。但她却一头雾水。她叹了口气，呻吟着，却不认识任何人。埃德加为她担心，忘记了她讨厌的朋友。我没有。我一有机会就去了，恳求他离开。确认凯瑟琳好多了，早上他应该会收到我的来信，她是如何度过这一夜的。

‘I shall not refuse to go out of doors,’ he answered; ‘but I shall stay in the garden: and, Nelly, mind you keep your word to-morrow. I shall be under those larch-trees. Mind! or I pay another visit, whether Linton be in or not.’
“我不会拒绝出门，”他回答道。 “但我会留在花园里：耐莉，请记住你明天要遵守诺言。”我将在那些落叶松树下。头脑！或者我会再次拜访，无论林惇在不在。

He sent a rapid glance through the half-open door of the chamber, and, ascertaining that what I stated was apparently true, delivered the house of his luckless presence.
他从半开的房间门里飞快地扫了一眼，确定我所说的显然是真的，就把他不幸的出现带回家了。

Chapter XVI
第十六章

ABOUT twelve o’clock that night was born the Catherine you saw at Wuthering Heights: a puny, seven-months’ child; and two hours after the mother died, having never recovered sufficient consciousness to miss Heathcliff, or know Edgar. The latter’s distraction at his bereavement is a subject too painful to be dwelt on; its after-effects showed how deep the sorrow sunk. A great addition, in my eyes, was his being left without an heir. I bemoaned that, as I gazed on the feeble orphan; and I mentally abused old Linton for (what was only natural partiality) the securing his estate to his own daughter, instead of his son’s. An unwelcomed infant it was, poor thing! It might have wailed out of life, and nobody cared a morsel, during those first hours of existence. We redeemed the neglect afterwards; but its beginning was as friendless as its end is likely to be.
那天晚上十二点左右，你在呼啸山庄看到的凯瑟琳出生了：一个瘦小的七个月大的孩子；母亲去世两小时后，她还没有恢复足够的意识来想念希刺克厉夫，或者认识埃德加。后者因丧亲之痛而分心，这是一个令人痛苦的话题，不值得细想。它的后遗症表明了悲伤的深度。在我看来，一个重要的补充是他没有继承人。当我凝视着这个虚弱的孤儿时，我感叹不已；我在精神上虐待了老林惇，因为他把他的财产保护给了他自己的女儿，而不是他儿子的（这只是自然的偏袒）。这是一个不受欢迎的婴儿，可怜的东西！在它存在的最初几个小时里，它可能已经从生命中消失了，没有人关心任何东西。后来我们弥补了疏忽；但它的开始和它的结束一样没有朋友。

Next morning bright and cheerful out of doors stole softened in through the blinds of the silent room, and suffused the couch and its occupant with a mellow, tender glow. Edgar Linton had his head laid on the pillow, and his eyes shut. His young and fair features were almost as deathlike as those of the form beside him, and almost as fixed: but HIS was the hush of exhausted anguish, and HERS of perfect peace. Her brow smooth, her lids closed, her lips wearing the expression of a smile; no angel in heaven could be more beautiful than she appeared. And I partook of the infinite calm in which she lay: my mind was never in a holier frame than while I gazed on that untroubled image of Divine rest. I instinctively echoed the words she had uttered a few hours before: ‘Incomparably beyond and above us all! Whether still on earth or now in heaven, her spirit is at home with God!’
第二天早上，室外明亮而欢快的阳光透过寂静的房间的百叶窗偷偷进来，给沙发和沙发上的人带来柔和、温柔的光芒。埃德加·林顿把头枕在枕头上，闭上了眼睛。他年轻而美丽的面容几乎和他身边的人一样死气沉沉，几乎一样固定：但他的是疲惫不堪的痛苦的寂静，而她的是完美的平静。她的眉头光滑，眼睑紧闭，嘴唇带着微笑。天上的天使不可能比她看上去更美丽。我也分享了她躺在那里的无限平静：当我凝视那神圣安息的无忧无虑的形象时，我的心灵从未处于如此神圣的境地。我本能地重复了她几个小时前所说的话：“无与伦比地超越我们所有人！”无论是在地上还是在天上，她的灵魂都与神同在！”

I don’t know if it be a peculiarity in me, but I am seldom otherwise than happy while watching in the chamber of death, should no frenzied or despairing mourner share the duty with me. I see a repose that neither earth nor hell can break, and I feel an assurance of the endless and shadowless hereafter the Eternity they have entered where life is boundless in its duration, and love in its sympathy, and joy in its fulness. I noticed on that occasion how much selfishness there is even in a love like Mr. Linton’s, when he so regretted Catherine’s blessed release! To be sure, one might have doubted, after the wayward and impatient existence she had led, whether she merited a haven of peace at last. One might doubt in seasons of cold reflection; but not then, in the presence of her corpse. It asserted its own tranquillity, which seemed a pledge of equal quiet to its former inhabitant.
我不知道这是否是我的一个特点，但当我在死亡之室中观看时，如果没有疯狂或绝望的哀悼者与我分担责任，我很少会感到高兴。我看到了一种无论是人间还是地狱都无法打破的宁静，我感受到了他们所进入的永恒和无影无踪的保证，在那里生命的持续时间是无限的，爱是同情的，快乐是充实的。在那次场合，我注意到，即使在像林惇先生这样的爱情中，当他对凯瑟琳的获救感到如此遗憾时，也有多么自私！诚然，在经历了她任性而不耐烦的生活之后，人们可能会怀疑她是否最终值得拥有一个平静的避风港。在冷思的季节里，人们可能会怀疑；但当时却不是这样，当着她的尸体的面。它维护着自己的宁静，这似乎是对其前居民同样安静的保证。

Do you believe such people are happy in the other world, sir? I’d give a great deal to know.
先生，您相信这样的人在另一个世界会幸福吗？我愿意付出很多代价来了解。

I declined answering Mrs. Dean’s question, which struck me as something heterodox. She proceeded:
我拒绝回答迪恩夫人的问题，我觉得这个问题很不正统。她继续说道：

Retracing the course of Catherine Linton, I fear we have no right to think she is; but we’ll leave her with her Maker.
回顾凯瑟琳·林顿的历程，我担心我们没有权利认为她是。但我们会把她留给她的创造者。

The master looked asleep, and I ventured soon after sunrise to quit the room and steal out to the pure refreshing air. The servants thought me gone to shake off the drowsiness of my protracted watch; in reality, my chief motive was seeing Mr. Heathcliff. If he had remained among the larches all night, he would have heard nothing of the stir at the Grange; unless, perhaps, he might catch the gallop of the messenger going to Gimmerton. If he had come nearer, he would probably be aware, from the lights flitting to and fro, and the opening and shutting of the outer doors, that all was not right within. I wished, yet feared, to find him. I felt the terrible news must be told, and I longed to get it over; but how to do it I did not know. He was there at least, a few yards further in the park; leant against an old ash-tree, his hat off, and his hair soaked with the dew that had gathered on the budded branches, and fell pattering round him. He had been standing a long time in that position, for I saw a pair of ousels passing and repassing scarcely three feet from him, busy in building their nest, and regarding his proximity no more than that of a piece of timber. They flew off at my approach, and he raised his eyes and spoke:‘She’s dead!’ he said; ‘I’ve not waited for you to learn that. Put your handkerchief away don’t snivel before me. Damn you all! she wants none of your tears!’
主人看起来睡着了，日出后不久，我冒险离开房间，偷偷出去呼吸纯净清新的空气。仆人们以为我是去摆脱长时间值班带来的睡意。事实上，我的主要动机是去见希刺克厉夫先生。如果他整晚都呆在落叶松丛中，他就不会听到田庄里的动静。除非，也许他能赶上去吉默顿的信使的疾驰。如果他走近一点，从闪烁的灯光和外门的开合中，他可能会意识到里面一切都不对劲。我希望但又害怕找到他。我觉得这个可怕的消息必须被告知，我渴望尽快结束这一切。但我不知道该怎么做。至少他在那儿，离公园几码远；他脱下帽子，靠在一棵老白蜡树上，头发沾满了含苞欲放的树枝上的露珠，滴答答答地落在他身上。他已经在这个位置上站了很长时间了，因为我看到一对鸩鹞在离他不到三英尺的地方来回走动，忙着筑巢，而他的靠近就像是一块木头。我一走近，它们就飞走了，他抬起眼睛说道：“她死了！” “我还没等你知道这一点。把你的手帕收起来，别在我面前哭鼻子。你们都该死！她不需要你的眼泪！

I was weeping as much for him as her: we do sometimes pity creatures that have none of the feeling either for themselves or others. When I first looked into his face, I perceived that he had got intelligence of the catastrophe; and a foolish notion struck me that his heart was quelled and he prayed, because his lips moved and his gaze was bent on the ground.
我为他和她一样哭泣：我们有时确实会怜悯那些对自己或他人都没有感情的生物。当我第一次看到他的脸时，我意识到他已经了解了这场灾难；我突然想到，他的心已经平静下来，他在祈祷，因为他的嘴唇在动，他的目光落在地面上。

‘Yes, she’s dead!’ I answered, checking my sobs and drying my cheeks. ‘Gone to heaven, I hope; where we may, every one, join her, if we take due warning and leave our evil ways to follow good!’
“是的，她死了！”我回答道，忍住抽泣，擦干脸颊。 “我希望去天堂；如果我们采取适当的警告并放弃邪恶的方式去追随正义，我们每个人都可以加入她的行列！

‘Did SHE take due warning, then?’ asked Heathcliff, attempting a sneer. ‘Did she die like a saint? Come, give me a true history of the event. How did ?’
“那么，她有接受适当的警告吗？”希刺克厉夫问道，试图冷笑一声。 ‘她死得像个圣人吗？来吧，给我讲一下这件事的真实历史。如何做 ？'

He endeavoured to pronounce the name, but could not manage it; and compressing his mouth he held a silent combat with his inward agony, defying, meanwhile, my sympathy with an unflinching, ferocious stare. ‘How did she die?’ he resumed, at last fain, notwithstanding his hardihood, to have a support behind him; for, after the struggle, he trembled, in spite of himself, to his very finger-ends.
他努力念出这个名字，但念不出来。他捂住嘴，与内心的痛苦进行一场无声的斗争，同时用毫不畏缩、凶猛的目光蔑视我的同情。 “她是怎么死的？”他终于继续说道，尽管他很坚强，但他身后有一个支持者。因为，挣扎之后，他不由自主地颤抖到指尖。

‘Poor wretch!’ I thought; ‘you have a heart and nerves the same as your brother men! Why should you be anxious to conceal them? Your pride cannot blind God! You tempt him to wring them, till he forces a cry of humiliation.’
“可怜的家伙！”我想。 ‘你和你的兄弟一样有一颗心和勇气！你为什么要急于隐瞒它们呢？你的骄傲不能蒙蔽上帝！你引诱他把它们拧干，直到他发出屈辱的叫声。

‘Quietly as a lamb!’ I answered, aloud. ‘She drew a sigh, and stretched herself, like a child reviving, and sinking again to sleep; and five minutes after I felt one little pulse at her heart, and nothing more!’
“像羔羊一样安静！”我大声回答。 “她叹了口气，伸了个懒腰，就像一个苏醒的孩子，又沉沉睡去；五分钟后，我感觉到她的心脏有一点脉搏，仅此而已！

‘And did she ever mention me?’ he asked, hesitating, as if he dreaded the answer to his question would introduce details that he could not bear to hear.
“她有没有提到过我？”他犹豫着问道，仿佛担心他的问题的答案会带来他无法忍受听到的细节。

‘Her senses never returned: she recognised nobody from the time you left her,’ I said. ‘She lies with a sweet smile on her face; and her latest ideas wandered back to pleasant early days. Her life closed in a gentle dream may she wake as kindly in the other world!’
“她的知觉再也没有恢复过：自从你离开她之后，她就认不出任何人了，”我说。 “她躺在床上，脸上挂着甜蜜的微笑；她最新的想法又回到了愉快的早期时光。她的生活在一个温柔的梦中结束，愿她在另一个世界同样友善地醒来！

‘May she wake in torment!’ he cried, with frightful vehemence, stamping his foot, and groaning in a sudden paroxysm of ungovernable passion. ‘Why, she’s a liar to the end! Where is she? Not THERE not in heaven not perished where? Oh! you said you cared nothing for my sufferings! And I pray one prayer I repeat it till my tongue stiffens Catherine Earnshaw, may you not rest as long as I am living; you said I killed you haunt me, then! The murdered DO haunt their murderers, I believe. I know that ghosts HAVE wandered on earth. Be with me always take any form drive me mad! only DO not leave me in this abyss, where I cannot find you! Oh, God! it is unutterable! I CANNOT live without my life! I CANNOT live without my soul!’
“愿她在痛苦中醒来！”他跺着脚，突然爆发出难以抑制的激情，大声呻吟，语气令人恐惧。 ‘哎呀，她到底是个骗子！她在哪？不是那里不是在天堂没有灭亡在哪里？哦！你说你不在乎我的痛苦！我祈祷一个祈祷，我重复它，直到我的舌头僵硬凯瑟琳恩肖，愿你在我活着的时候不要休息；你说我杀了你，那你就缠着我吧！我相信，被谋杀的人确实困扰着他们的凶手。我知道鬼魂在地球上徘徊。永远以任何形式与我在一起，让我发疯！只是不要把我留在这个深渊里，在那里我找不到你！天啊！这是无法言说的！没有我的生命我就活不下去！没有我的灵魂我就活不下去！”

He dashed his head against the knotted trunk; and, lifting up his eyes, howled, not like a man, but like a savage beast being goaded to death with knives and spears. I observed several splashes of blood about the bark of the tree, and his hand and forehead were both stained; probably the scene I witnessed was a repetition of others acted during the night. It hardly moved my compassion it appalled me: still, I felt reluctant to quit him so. But the moment he recollected himself enough to notice me watching, he thundered a command for me to go, and I obeyed. He was beyond my skill to quiet or console!
他把头撞在打结的树干上。他抬起头，嚎叫起来，不像是一个人，而是像一头被刀和矛刺死的野兽。我看到树皮上有几处血迹，他的手和额头上都沾满了血迹。我所目睹的场景可能是其他人在夜间发生的事情的重复。这几乎没有动摇我的同情心，反而让我感到震惊：尽管如此，我还是不愿意离开他。但当他回过神来注意到我在注视时，他大声命令我走，我服从了。我无法让他安静或安慰！

Mrs. Linton’s funeral was appointed to take place on the Friday following her decease; and till then her coffin remained uncovered, and strewn with flowers and scented leaves, in the great drawingroom. Linton spent his days and nights there, a sleepless guardian; and a circumstance concealed from all but me Heathcliff spent his nights, at least, outside, equally a stranger to repose. I held no communication with him: still, I was conscious of his design to enter, if he could; and on the Tuesday, a little after dark, when my master, from sheer fatigue, had been compelled to retire a couple of hours, I went and opened one of the windows; moved by his perseverance to give him a chance of bestowing on the faded image of his idol one final adieu. He did not omit to avail himself of the opportunity, cautiously and briefly; too cautiously to betray his presence by the slightest noise. Indeed, I shouldn’t have discovered that he had been there, except for the disarrangement of the drapery about the corpse’s face, and for observing on the floor a curl of light hair, fastened with a silver thread; which, on examination, I ascertained to have been taken from a locket hung round Catherine’s neck. Heathcliff had opened the trinket and cast out its contents, replacing them by a black lock of his own. I twisted the two, and enclosed them together.
林惇夫人的葬礼定于她去世后的周五举行。直到那时，她的棺材仍然没有盖上盖子，在大客厅里撒满了鲜花和芳香的叶子。林惇在那里度过了日日夜夜，成为一个不眠之夜的守护者。除了我之外，希刺克厉夫的情况对所有人都保密，至少在外面过夜，同样是一个陌生的休息场所。我和他没有任何交流：尽管如此，我还是意识到他打算进去，如果他可以的话；星期二，天黑后不久，当我的主人因极度疲劳而被迫休息几个小时时，我去打开了一扇窗户。被他的毅力所感动，让他有机会向偶像的褪色形象做最后的告别。他没有忘记利用这个机会，谨慎而简短。他太小心翼翼了，不敢让最轻微的噪音暴露他的存在。事实上，我不应该发现他在那里，除非尸体脸上的布料散乱，并且在地板上看到一卷浅色的头发，用银线固定；经过检查，我确定它是从挂在凯瑟琳脖子上的挂坠盒中取出的。希刺克厉夫打开了小饰品，扔出了里面的东西，取而代之的是他自己的一把黑锁。我将两者扭转，然后将它们合在一起。

Mr. Earnshaw was, of course, invited to attend the remains of his sister to the grave; he sent no excuse, but he never came; so that, besides her husband, the mourners were wholly composed of tenants and servants. Isabella was not asked.
恩肖先生当然被邀请去陪葬他妹妹的遗体。他没有找任何借口，但他始终没有来。因此，除了她的丈夫之外，送葬者全部由佃户和仆人组成。伊莎贝拉没有被问到。

The place of Catherine’s interment, to the surprise of the villagers, was neither in the chapel under the carved monument of the Lintons, nor yet by the tombs of her own relations, outside. It was dug on a green slope in a corner of the kirk-yard, where the wall is so low that heath and bilberry-plants have climbed over it from the moor; and peat-mould almost buries it. Her husband lies in the same spot now; and they have each a simple headstone above, and a plain grey block at their feet, to mark the graves.
令村民惊讶的是，凯瑟琳的安葬地点既不在林惇家族雕刻纪念碑下的小教堂里，也不在外面她自己亲戚的坟墓旁。它是在柯克院子一角的绿色斜坡上挖的，那里的墙很低，石南植物和越橘植物已经从沼泽地爬了过去。泥炭霉菌几乎将其掩埋。她的丈夫现在躺在同一个地方；他们的上方各有一块简单的墓碑，脚下有一块普通的灰色石块，用来标记坟墓。

Chapter XVII
第十七章

THAT Friday made the last of our fine days for a month. In the evening the weather broke: the wind shifted from south to northeast, and brought rain first, and then sleet and snow. On the morrow one could hardly imagine that there had been three weeks of summer: the primroses and crocuses were hidden under wintry drifts; the larks were silent, the young leaves of the early trees smitten and blackened. And dreary, and chill, and dismal, that morrow did creep over! My master kept his room; I took possession of the lonely parlour, converting it into a nursery: and there I was, sitting with the moaning doll of a child laid on my knee; rocking it to and fro, and watching, meanwhile, the still driving flakes build up the uncurtained window, when the door opened, and some person entered, out of breath and laughing! My anger was greater than my astonishment for a minute. I supposed it one of the maids, and I cried ‘Have done! How dare you show your giddiness here; What would Mr. Linton say if he heard you?’
那个星期五是我们一个月来最后的好日子。傍晚时分，天气转晴，风由南转东北，先是雨，后是雨夹雪。第二天，人们很难想象夏天已经过去了三个星期：报春花和番红花隐藏在寒冷的积雪下；云雀鸦雀无声，早期树木的新叶被击碎变黑。那个沉闷、寒冷、阴郁的明天悄然过去了！我的主人保留了他的房间；我占领了那个孤独的客厅，把它变成了一个托儿所：我坐在那里，膝盖上放着一个哭泣的娃娃。来回摇晃它，同时看着仍然飘动的雪花堆积在未拉窗帘的窗户上，这时门打开了，有人进来了，气喘吁吁，大笑着！有那么一刻，我的愤怒超过了我的惊讶。我猜想是一位女仆，然后我喊道：“完成了！”你竟敢在这里表现出你的眼花缭乱；如果林惇先生听到你的话，他会说什么？

‘Excuse me!’ answered a familiar voice; ‘but I know Edgar is in bed, and I cannot stop myself.’
“对不起！”一个熟悉的声音回答道。 “但我知道埃德加已经躺在床上了，我无法阻止自己。”

With that the speaker came forward to the fire, panting and holding her hand to her side.
说完，说话者走到火边，气喘吁吁，把手放在身侧。

‘I have run the whole way from Wuthering Heights!’ she continued, after a pause; ‘except where I’ve flown. I couldn’t count the number of falls I’ve had. Oh, I’m aching all over! Don’t be alarmed! There shall be an explanation as soon as I can give it; only just have the goodness to step out and order the carriage to take me on to Gimmerton, and tell a servant to seek up a few clothes in my wardrobe.’
“我从呼啸山庄一路跑过来！”停顿了一下，她继续说道。 “除了我飞过的地方。我已经数不清自己跌倒的次数了。唉，我浑身都疼！别惊慌！我会尽快给出解释；只要你好心走出来，吩咐马车送我去吉默顿，然后吩咐仆人到我衣柜里找几件衣服。”

The intruder was Mrs. Heathcliff. She certainly seemed in no laughing predicament: her hair streamed on her shoulders, dripping with snow and water; she was dressed in the girlish dress she commonly wore, befitting her age more than her position: a low frock with short sleeves, and nothing on either head or neck. The frock was of light silk, and clung to her with wet, and her feet were protected merely by thin slippers; add to this a deep cut under one ear, which only the cold prevented from bleeding profusely, a white face scratched and bruised, and a frame hardly able to support itself through fatigue; and you may fancy my first fright was not much allayed when I had had leisure to examine her.
闯入者是希刺克厉夫夫人。她看起来确实没有笑的困境：她的头发披散在肩上，滴着雪和水；她穿着她平常穿的少女装，比她的职位更适合她的年龄：一件低袖短袖连衣裙，头上和脖子上什么也没穿。这件连衣裙是轻质丝质的，湿漉漉地贴在她身上，她的脚只穿着薄拖鞋。除此之外，一只耳朵下面有一道深深的伤口，只有寒冷才能避免大出血，一张苍白的脸被划伤和瘀伤，而且由于疲劳而几乎无法支撑自己的框架；你可能会认为，当我有时间检查她时，我最初的恐惧并没有减轻多少。

‘My dear young lady,’ I exclaimed, ‘I’ll stir nowhere, and hear nothing, till you have removed every article of your clothes, and put on dry things; and certainly you shall not go to Gimmerton tonight, so it is needless to order the carriage.’
“我亲爱的小姐，”我喊道，“除非你脱掉所有衣服，换上干衣服，否则我将一动不动，也听不到任何声音。今晚你肯定不会去吉默顿，所以不用订马车。

‘Certainly I shall,’ she said; ‘walking or riding: yet I’ve no objection to dress myself decently. And ah, see how it flows down my neck now! The fire does make it smart.’
“我当然会的，”她说。 “步行或骑行：但我不反对穿得得体。啊，看看它现在是如何流过我的脖子的！火确实让它变得聪明。

She insisted on my fulfilling her directions, before she would let me touch her; and not till after the coachman had been instructed to get ready, and a maid set to pack up some necessary attire, did I obtain her consent for binding the wound and helping to change her garments.
她坚持要我完成她的指示，然后才让我碰她。直到吩咐车夫做好准备，女仆收拾好必要的衣服后，我才征得她的同意，帮她包扎伤口，帮她换衣服。

‘Now, Ellen,’ she said, when my task was finished and she was seated in an easy-chair on the hearth, with a cup of tea before her, ‘you sit down opposite me, and put poor Catherine’s baby away: I don’t like to see it! You mustn’t think I care little for Catherine, because I behaved so foolishly on entering: I’ve cried, too, bitterly yes, more than any one else has reason to cry. We parted unreconciled, you remember, and I sha’n’t forgive myself. But, for all that, I was not going to sympathise with him the brute beast! Oh, give me the poker! This is the last thing of his I have about me:’ she slipped the gold ring from her third finger, and threw it on the floor. ‘I’ll smash it!’ she continued, striking it with childish spite, ‘and then I’ll burn it!’ and she took and dropped the misused article among the coals. ‘There! he shall buy another, if he gets me back again. He’d be capable of coming to seek me, to tease Edgar. I dare not stay, lest that notion should possess his wicked head! And besides, Edgar has not been kind, has he? And I won’t come suing for his assistance; nor will I bring him into more trouble. Necessity compelled me to seek shelter here; though, if I had not learned he was out of the way, I’d have halted at the kitchen, washed my face, warmed myself, got you to bring what I wanted, and departed again to anywhere out of the reach of my accursed of that incarnate goblin! Ah, he was in such a fury! If he had caught me! It’s a pity Earnshaw is not his match in strength: I wouldn’t have run till I’d seen him all but demolished, had Hindley been able to do it!’
“现在，艾伦，”当我的任务完成后，她坐在壁炉边的一张安乐椅上，面前摆着一杯茶，“你在我对面坐下，把可怜的凯瑟琳的孩子收起来：我不喜欢看！你别以为我不关心凯瑟琳，因为我进来时表现得很愚蠢：我也哭过，是的，哭得很伤心，比任何人都更有理由哭。你记得，我们不甘心地分手，而我不会原谅自己。但尽管如此，我也不会同情他这个畜生！哦，把扑克给我！这是他留给我的最后一样东西：”她从无名指上摘下金戒指，把它扔到地板上。 “我要把它砸碎！”她继续说道，带着孩子般的怨​​恨击打它，“然后我会把它烧掉！”然后她拿起那件被误用的物品，扔进了煤堆里。 '那里！如果他再次让我回来，他会再买一个。他可以来找我，捉弄埃德加。我不敢留下来，免得他那邪恶的脑袋里充满了这种念头！而且，埃德加并不友善，不是吗？我不会来起诉他的帮助；我也不会给他带来更多的麻烦。迫不得已，我来到这里寻求庇护。不过，如果我没有得知他不挡道，我就会在厨房停下来，洗了把脸，暖暖身子，让你拿来我想要的东西，然后再次离开，去任何我该诅咒的人够不到的地方。那个化身的妖精！啊，他真是太愤怒了！如果他抓住我就好了！遗憾的是恩肖的力量不是他的对手：如果辛德雷能够​​做到的话，我不会跑，直到我看到他几乎被摧毁！

‘Well, don’t talk so fast, Miss!’ I interrupted; ‘you’ll disorder the handkerchief I have tied round your face, and make the cut bleed again. Drink your tea, and take breath, and give over laughing: laughter is sadly out of place under this roof, and in your condition!’
“好吧，小姐，别说得太快！”我打断道。 “你会把我绑在你脸上的手帕弄乱，让伤口再次流血。”喝你的茶，喘口气，停止笑声：可悲的是，在这个屋檐下，在你的情况下，笑声是不合适的！

‘An undeniable truth,’ she replied. ‘Listen to that child! It maintains a constant wail send it out of my hearing for an hour; I sha’n’t stay any longer.’
“这是不可否认的事实，”她回答道。 ‘听那个孩子的话！它持续不断地哀号，让我在一个小时内听不到它；我不会再呆下去了。

I rang the bell, and committed it to a servant’s care; and then I inquired what had urged her to escape from Wuthering Heights in such an unlikely plight, and where she meant to go, as she refused remaining with us.
我按响了门铃，把它交给仆人看管。然后我询问是什么促使她在如此不可能的困境中逃离呼啸山庄，以及她打算去哪里，因为她拒绝和我们在一起。

‘I ought, and I wished to remain,’ answered she, ‘to cheer Edgar and take care of the baby, for two things, and because the Grange is my right home. But I tell you he wouldn’t let me! Do you think he could bear to see me grow fat and merry could bear to think that we were tranquil, and not resolve on poisoning our comfort? Now, I have the satisfaction of being sure that he detests me, to the point of its annoying him seriously to have me within ear-shot or eyesight: I notice, when I enter his presence, the muscles of his countenance are involuntarily distorted into an expression of hatred; partly arising from his knowledge of the good causes I have to feel that sentiment for him, and partly from original aversion. It is strong enough to make me feel pretty certain that he would not chase me over England, supposing I contrived a clear escape; and therefore I must get quite away. I’ve recovered from my first desire to be killed by him: I’d rather he’d kill himself! He has extinguished my love effectually, and so I’m at my ease. I can recollect yet how I loved him; and can dimly imagine that I could still be loving him, if no, no! Even if he had doted on me, the devilish nature would have revealed its existence somehow. Catherine had an awfully perverted taste to esteem him so dearly, knowing him so well. Monster! would that he could be blotted out of creation, and out of my memory!’
“我应该，而且我希望留下来，”她回答道，“为了让埃德加高兴并照顾孩子，有两件事，而且因为田庄是我正确的家。但我告诉你他不会让我这么做的！你认为他能忍受看到我变胖，能忍受看到我们平静而快乐，而不决心破坏我们的舒适吗？现在，我很满足地确信他讨厌我，以至于让他严重恼火地让我在耳朵或视力范围内：我注意到，当我进入他面前时，他脸上的肌肉不由自主地扭曲成仇恨的表达；我对他产生这种感情，部分是出于他对善行的了解，部分是出于最初的厌恶。它的强度足以让我确信，假设我设法逃脱，他不会在英格兰追赶我。因此我必须离开。我已经从最初被他杀掉的念头中恢复过来：我宁愿他自杀！他有效地熄灭了我的爱，所以我很轻松。我还记得我是多么爱他；依稀可以想象我还可以爱他，如果不，不！就算他再宠爱我，魔性也会以某种方式显露出来。凯瑟琳对他如此尊敬，如此了解，真是太变态了。怪物！但愿他能从创造中被抹去，从我的记忆中抹去！”

‘Hush, hush! He’s a human being,’ I said. ‘Be more charitable: there are worse men than he is yet!’
'安静！他是一个人，”我说。 “要更仁慈一些：还有比他更糟糕的人！”

‘He’s not a human being,’ she retorted; ‘and he has no claim on my charity. I gave him my heart, and he took and pinched it to death, and flung it back to me. People feel with their hearts, Ellen: and since he has destroyed mine, I have not power to feel for him: and I would not, though he groaned from this to his dying day, and wept tears of blood for Catherine! No, indeed, indeed, I wouldn’t!’ And here Isabella began to cry; but, immediately dashing the water from her lashes, she recommenced. ‘You asked, what has driven me to flight at last? I was compelled to attempt it, because I had succeeded in rousing his rage a pitch above his malignity. Pulling out the nerves with red hot pincers requires more coolness than knocking on the head. He was worked up to forget the fiendish prudence he boasted of, and proceeded to murderous violence. I experienced pleasure in being able to exasperate him: the sense of pleasure woke my instinct of selfpreservation, so I fairly broke free; and if ever I come into his hands again he is welcome to a signal revenge.
“他不是人，”她反驳道。 ‘而且他对我的施舍没有任何要求。我把我的心给了他，他把它捏死，然后扔回给我。人们用他们的心去感受，艾伦：既然他毁了我的心，我就没有力量去感受他了：我也不会去感受他，尽管他从这一刻起一直呻吟到临死的那一天，并为凯瑟琳流下血泪！不，确实，确实，我不会！”说到这里，伊莎贝拉哭了起来。但是，她立即把睫毛上的水冲掉，然后又开始了。 ‘你问，是什么促使我最终逃走？我不得不尝试这样做，因为我成功地激起了他的愤怒，超越了他的恶意。用烧红的钳子拔出神经，比敲头更需要冷静。他被激怒了，忘记了自己所吹嘘的恶魔般的谨慎，并开始实施凶残的暴力。我体验到了能够激怒他的快乐：这种快乐感唤醒了我的自我保护本能，所以我完全挣脱了束缚；如果我再次落入他手中，欢迎他进行明显的报复。

‘Yesterday, you know, Mr. Earnshaw should have been at the funeral. He kept himself sober for the purpose tolerably sober: not going to bed mad at six o’clock and getting up drunk at twelve. Consequently, he rose, in suicidal low spirits, as fit for the church as for a dance; and instead, he sat down by the fire and swallowed gin or brandy by tumblerfuls.
“你知道，昨天，恩肖先生应该参加葬礼。他保持清醒的目的是为了还算清醒：不要在六点钟生气地睡觉，在十二点醉醺醺地起床。结果，他情绪低落，想要自杀，他起身去教堂，就像参加舞会一样。相反，他坐在火边，大杯地喝下杜松子酒或白兰地。

‘Heathcliff I shudder to name him! has been a stranger in the house from last Sunday till to-day. Whether the angels have fed him, or his kin beneath, I cannot tell; but he has not eaten a meal with us for nearly a week. He has just come home at dawn, and gone up-stairs to his chamber; looking himself in as if anybody dreamt of coveting his company! There he has continued, praying like a Methodist: only the deity he implored is senseless dust and ashes; and God, when addressed, was curiously confounded with his own black father! After concluding these precious orisons and they lasted generally till he grew hoarse and his voice was strangled in his throat he would be off again; always straight down to the Grange! I wonder Edgar did not send for a constable, and give him into custody! For me, grieved as I was about Catherine, it was impossible to avoid regarding this season of deliverance from degrading oppression as a holiday.
“希刺克厉夫，一提到他的名字我就不寒而栗！”从上周日到今天，他一直是家里的陌生人。我不知道是天使养活了他，还是他的亲人。但他已经快一个星期没有和我们一起吃过饭了。黎明时分，他刚刚回家，上楼回到自己的房间。审视自己，仿佛有人梦想着与他为伴！他继续像卫理公会教徒一样祈祷：只有他所祈求的神灵才是毫无意义的尘土和灰烬；当谈到上帝时，他奇怪地与自己的黑人父亲混淆了！完成这些宝贵的祈祷之后，它们通常会持续到他声音变得嘶哑、声音哽在喉咙里时，他才会再次出发。总是直奔田庄！我奇怪埃德加没有派人去叫一名警察来把他拘留！对我来说，尽管我为凯瑟琳感到悲痛，但我无法避免将这个摆脱侮辱性压迫的季节视为一个假期。

‘I recovered spirits sufficient to bear Joseph’s eternal lectures without weeping, and to move up and down the house less with the foot of a frightened thief than formerly. You wouldn’t think that I should cry at anything Joseph could say; but he and Hareton are detestable companions. I’d rather sit with Hindley, and hear his awful talk, than with ‘t’ little maister’ and his staunch supporter, that odious old man! When Heathcliff is in, I’m often obliged to seek the kitchen and their society, or starve among the damp uninhabited chambers; when he is not, as was the case this week, I establish a table and chair at one corner of the house fire, and never mind how Mr. Earnshaw may occupy himself; and he does not interfere with my arrangements. He is quieter now than he used to be, if no one provokes him: more sullen and depressed, and less furious. Joseph affirms he’s sure he’s an altered man: that the Lord has touched his heart, and he is saved ‘so as by fire.’ I’m puzzled to detect signs of the favourable change: but it is not my business.
“我恢复了精神，足以承受约瑟夫永恒的训诫而不哭泣，也不再像以前那样用受惊的小偷的脚在房子里走来走去。你不会认为我应该因为约瑟夫说的任何话而哭泣；但他和哈里顿是可恶的伙伴。我宁愿坐在辛德雷身边，听他可怕的谈话，也不愿和“小大师”和他坚定的支持者，那个可恶的老头坐在一起！当希斯克利夫在的时候，我常常不得不去厨房和他们交往，或者在潮湿的无人居住的房间里挨饿。当他不在的时候，就像本周的情况一样，我会在房子火的一个角落里放一张桌子和一把椅子，而不管恩肖先生会怎么做。而且他也不干涉我的安排。如果没有人激怒他，他现在比以前更安静了：更加闷闷不乐、沮丧，也不再那么愤怒。约瑟夫确认他确信自己是一个改变的人：主已经触动了他的心，他“就像被火一样”得救了。我很困惑地发现有利变化的迹象：但这不关我的事。

‘Yester-evening I sat in my nook reading some old books till late on towards twelve. It seemed so dismal to go up-stairs, with the wild snow blowing outside, and my thoughts continually reverting to the kirk-yard and the new-made grave! I dared hardly lift my eyes from the page before me, that melancholy scene so instantly usurped its place. Hindley sat opposite, his head leant on his hand; perhaps meditating on the same subject. He had ceased drinking at a point below irrationality, and had neither stirred nor spoken during two or three hours. There was no sound through the house but the moaning wind, which shook the windows every now and then, the faint crackling of the coals, and the click of my snuffers as I removed at intervals the long wick of the candle. Hareton and Joseph were probably fast asleep in bed. It was very, very sad: and while I read I sighed, for it seemed as if all joy had vanished from the world, never to be restored.
“昨天晚上，我坐在角落里读一些旧书，直到深夜十二点。外面狂风大雪，上楼的感觉真是令人沮丧，我的思绪不断地回到柯克院子和新造的坟墓上！我几乎不敢把目光从面前的书页上移开，那忧郁的场景立刻就取代了它的位置。辛德雷坐在对面，他的头靠在他的手上。也许正在沉思同一主题。他在低于非理性的时候停止了饮酒，并且在两三个小时内既没有动弹也没有说话。房子里没有任何声音，只有时不时摇动窗户的呻吟风声、煤块微弱的噼啪声，以及我时不时移开长长的烛芯时剪纸器发出的咔哒声。哈里顿和约瑟夫可能正在床上熟睡。这是非常非常悲伤的：当我阅读时，我叹了口气，因为似乎所有的欢乐都从世界上消失了，永远无法恢复。

‘The doleful silence was broken at length by the sound of the kitchen latch: Heathcliff had returned from his watch earlier than usual; owing, I suppose, to the sudden storm. That entrance was fastened, and we heard him coming round to get in by the other. I rose with an irrepressible expression of what I felt on my lips, which induced my companion, who had been staring towards the door, to turn and look at me.
“厨房门闩的声音终于打破了凄凉的寂静：希刺克厉夫比平时更早地回来了。我想，是因为突如其来的暴风雨。那个入口被锁住了，我们听到他从另一个入口走过来。我站了起来，脸上的表情难以抑制，这让一直盯着门口的同伴转过身来看着我。

‘’I’ll keep him out five minutes,’ he exclaimed. ‘You won’t object?’
“我会让他呆在外面五分钟，”他喊道。 “你不会反对吗？”

‘’No, you may keep him out the whole night for me,’ I answered. ‘Do! put the key in the look, and draw the bolts.’
“不，你可以帮我让他整晚都不在外面，”我回答道。 '做！将钥匙插入外观，然后拔出螺栓。

‘Earnshaw accomplished this ere his guest reached the front; he then came and brought his chair to the other side of my table, leaning over it, and searching in my eyes for a sympathy with the burning hate that gleamed from his: as he both looked and felt like an assassin, he couldn’t exactly find that; but he discovered enough to encourage him to speak.
“恩肖在他的客人到达前线之前就完成了这一任务；然后他走过来，把他的椅子带到我桌子的另一边，靠在上面，在我的眼睛里寻找对他身上闪烁着的燃烧的仇恨的同情：因为他看起来和感觉都像一个刺客，他不能准确地找到那个；但他的发现足以鼓励他开口说话。

‘’You, and I,’ he said, ‘have each a great debt to settle with the man out yonder! If we were neither of us cowards, we might combine to discharge it. Are you as soft as your brother? Are you willing to endure to the last, and not once attempt a repayment?’
“你和我，”他说，“每个人都欠了那边那个人一大笔债！”如果我们都不是胆小鬼，我们就可以联合起来消灭它。你也像你哥哥一样温柔吗？你愿意忍耐到最后，一次也不尝试偿还吗？

‘’I’m weary of enduring now,’ I replied; ‘and I’d be glad of a retaliation that wouldn’t recoil on myself; but treachery and violence are spears pointed at both ends; they wound those who resort to them worse than their enemies.’
“我现在厌倦了忍受，”我回答道。 “我很高兴能得到一种不会对自己产生反作用的报复；但背叛和暴力是两头都尖的矛；他们对那些求助于他们的人造成的伤害比他们的敌人还要严重。

‘’Treachery and violence are a just return for treachery and violence!’ cried Hindley. ‘Mrs. Heathcliff, I’ll ask you to do nothing; but sit still and be dumb. Tell me now, can you? I’m sure you would have as much pleasure as I in witnessing the conclusion of the fiend’s existence; he’ll be YOUR death unless you overreach him; and he’ll be MY ruin. Damn the hellish villain! He knocks at the door as if he were master here already! Promise to hold your tongue, and before that clock strikes it wants three minutes of one you’re a free woman!’
“背叛和暴力是背叛和暴力的正义回报！”辛德雷喊道。 '太太。希刺克厉夫，我会要求你什么也不做；但坐着不动，保持沉默。现在告诉我，可以吗？我相信你会和我一样高兴地见证恶魔的终结。除非你越过他的手，否则他就会杀死你；他将成为我的毁灭。该死的恶棍！他敲门，仿佛他已经是这里的主人了！答应我，保持沉默，在时钟敲响之前，只要三分钟，你就是一个自由的女人了！”

‘He took the implements which I described to you in my letter from his breast, and would have turned down the candle. I snatched it away, however, and seized his arm.
“他从怀里取出了我在信中向你描述的工具，并准备熄灭蜡烛。然而，我把它抢走了，抓住了他的手臂。

‘’I’ll not hold my tongue!’ I said; ‘you mustn’t touch him. Let the door remain shut, and be quiet!’
“我不会闭嘴！”我说道。 ‘你不许碰他。让门保持关闭，保持安静！

‘’No! I’ve formed my resolution, and by God I’ll execute it!’ cried the desperate being. ‘I’ll do you a kindness in spite of yourself, and Hareton justice! And you needn’t trouble your head to screen me; Catherine is gone. Nobody alive would regret me, or be ashamed, though I cut my throat this minute and it’s time to make an end!’
''不！我已经下定决心了，上帝发誓，我一定会执行它！”绝望的人喊道。 “我会不由自主地对你施以善意，并为哈里顿伸张正义！”你也不必费心去筛选我；凯瑟琳走了。活着的人不会为我后悔或感到羞耻，尽管我此刻割断了喉咙，是时候结束了！

‘I might as well have struggled with a bear, or reasoned with a lunatic. The only resource left me was to run to a lattice and warn his intended victim of the fate which awaited him.
“我还不如和一头熊搏斗，或者和一个疯子讲道理。”我唯一的办法就是跑到格子前，警告他的目标受害者等待着他的命运。

‘’You’d better seek shelter somewhere else to-night!’ I exclaimed, in rather a triumphant tone. ‘Mr. Earnshaw has a mind to shoot you, if you persist in endeavouring to enter.’
“今晚你最好找个地方避难！”我用相当胜利的语气喊道。 '先生。如果你坚持要进去的话，恩肖就会想开枪打死你。”

‘’You’d better open the door, you ‘ he answered, addressing me by some elegant term that I don’t care to repeat.
“你最好把门打开，你”他回答道，用一些我不想重复的优雅术语对我说话。

‘’I shall not meddle in the matter,’ I retorted again. ‘Come in and get shot, if you please. I’ve done my duty.’
“我不会插手这件事。”我再次反驳道。 “如果你愿意的话，进来接受枪杀吧。”我已经尽了我的职责。

‘With that I shut the window and returned to my place by the fire; having too small a stock of hypocrisy at my command to pretend any anxiety for the danger that menaced him. Earnshaw swore passionately at me: affirming that I loved the villain yet; and calling me all sorts of names for the base spirit I evinced. And I, in my secret heart (and conscience never reproached me), thought what a blessing it would be for HIM should Heathcliff put him out of misery; and what a blessing for ME should he send Heathcliff to his right abode! As I sat nursing these reflections, the casement behind me was banged on to the floor by a blow from the latter individual, and his black countenance looked blightingly through. The stanchions stood too close to suffer his shoulders to follow, and I smiled, exulting in my fancied security. His hair and clothes were whitened with snow, and his sharp cannibal teeth, revealed by cold and wrath, gleamed through the dark.
“说完我就关上窗户，回到火边我的地方；我的虚伪程度太低，无法假装对威胁他的危险感到焦虑。恩肖热情地对我发誓：肯定我还爱这个恶棍；并为我表现出的卑鄙精神用各种各样的名字来称呼我。而我，在我内心深处（良心从未责备过我），认为如果希刺克厉夫使他摆脱痛苦，那对他来说将是多么大的祝福；如果他把希刺克厉夫送到他正确的住所，对我来说是多么大的祝福啊！当我坐着思考这些倒影时，我身后的窗扉被后者的一击撞到了地板上，他的黑色面孔看起来令人沮丧。支柱站得太近，他的肩膀无法跟随，我微笑着，为我想象中的安全而欢欣鼓舞。他的头发和衣服都被雪染白了，他锋利的食人牙齿在寒冷和愤怒中露出来，在黑暗中闪闪发光。

‘’Isabella, let me in, or I’ll make you repent!’ he ‘girned,’ as Joseph calls it.
“伊莎贝拉，让我进去，否则我会让你悔改！”他“扭腰”，约瑟夫这样称呼它。

‘’I cannot commit murder,’ I replied. ‘Mr. Hindley stands sentinel with a knife and loaded pistol.’
“我不能杀人，”我回答道。 '先生。欣德利拿着刀和上膛的手枪站岗。

‘’Let me in by the kitchen door,’ he said.
“让我从厨房门进去，”他说。

‘’Hindley will be there before me,’ I answered: ‘and that’s a poor love of yours that cannot bear a shower of snow! We were left at peace in our beds as long as the summer moon shone, but the moment a blast of winter returns, you must run for shelter! Heathcliff, if I were you, I’d go stretch myself over her grave and die like a faithful dog. The world is surely not worth living in now, is it? You had distinctly impressed on me the idea that Catherine was the whole joy of your life: I can’t imagine how you think of surviving her loss.’
“欣德雷会在我之前到达，”我回答道，“你的爱情真是可怜，连一场雪都承受不了！”只要夏天的月光照耀，我们就可以安心地躺在床上，但一旦冬天的寒风袭来，你就必须逃往避难所！希刺克厉夫，如果我是你，我就会趴在她的坟墓上，像一只忠实的狗一样死去。现在的世界肯定不值得生活，不是吗？你给我留下了深刻的印象，凯瑟琳是你一生的全部快乐：我无法想象你如何看待失去她。

‘’He’s there, is he?’ exclaimed my companion, rushing to the gap. ‘If I can get my arm out I can hit him!’
“他在那儿，是吗？”我的同伴冲向缺口，惊呼道。 “如果我能把手臂伸出来，我就能打他！”

‘I’m afraid, Ellen, you’ll set me down as really wicked; but you don’t know all, so don’t judge. I wouldn’t have aided or abetted an attempt on even HIS life for anything. Wish that he were dead, I must; and therefore I was fearfully disappointed, and unnerved by terror for the consequences of my taunting speech, when he flung himself on Earnshaw’s weapon and wrenched it from his grasp.
“我担心，艾伦，你会认为我非常邪恶；”但你并不知道全部，所以不要评判。我不会为了任何事情而帮助或教唆任何人试图谋害他的生命。我希望他死掉，我必须这样做；因此，当他扑向恩肖的武器并将其从手中夺走时，我对我的嘲讽言论的后果感到非常失望和不安。

‘The charge exploded, and the knife, in springing back, closed into its owner’s wrist. Heathcliff pulled it away by main force, slitting up the flesh as it passed on, and thrust it dripping into his pocket. He then took a stone, struck down the division between two windows, and sprang in. His adversary had fallen senseless with excessive pain and the flow of blood, that gushed from an artery or a large vein. The ruffian kicked and trampled on him, and dashed his head repeatedly against the flags, holding me with one hand, meantime, to prevent me summoning Joseph. He exerted preterhuman self-denial in abstaining from finishing him completely; but getting out of breath, he finally desisted, and dragged the apparently inanimate body on to the settle. There he tore off the sleeve of Earnshaw’s coat, and bound up the wound with brutal roughness; spitting and cursing during the operation as energetically as he had kicked before. Being at liberty, I lost no time in seeking the old servant; who, having gathered by degrees the purport of my hasty tale, hurried below, gasping, as he descended the steps two at once.
“冲锋爆炸，刀子弹回来，紧扣在主人的手腕上。希刺克厉夫用力把它拉开，在它经过的时候把肉切开，然后把滴着水的东西塞进口袋里。然后他拿起一块石头，击倒两扇窗户之间的隔断，跳了进去。他的对手因过度疼痛和从动脉或大静脉中涌出的血液而失去了知觉。那恶棍对他又踢又踩，还用头反复撞旗子，同时用一只手拉住我，不让我召唤约瑟夫。他发挥了超人的克己精神，避免彻底杀死他。但他上气不接下气，最终停了下来，拖着那具显然已经没有生命的尸体到了长椅上。在那里，他撕下了恩肖外套的袖子，粗暴地包扎了伤口。手术过程中他又吐口水、咒骂，就像以前踢腿一样用力。由于自由了，我立即寻找老仆人。他逐渐明白了我仓促故事的要旨，急忙跑下楼去，气喘吁吁地同时下了两级台阶。

‘’What is ther to do, now? what is ther to do, now?’
” “现在该怎么办？现在他们要做什么？

‘’There’s this to do,’ thundered Heathcliff, ‘that your master’s mad; and should he last another month, I’ll have him to an asylum. And how the devil did you come to fasten me out, you toothless hound? Don’t stand muttering and mumbling there. Come, I’m not going to nurse him. Wash that stuff away; and mind the sparks of your candle it is more than half brandy!’
“你的主人疯了，”希刺克厉夫咆哮道。如果他还能再坚持一个月，我就会把他送进庇护所。你这没牙齿的猎犬，到底是怎么来把我绑起来的？不要站在那里嘀咕咕咕。来吧，我不会护理他的。把那些东西洗掉；请注意蜡烛的火花，其中一半以上是白兰地！”

‘’And so ye’ve been murthering on him?’ exclaimed Joseph, lifting his hands and eyes in horror. ‘If iver I seed a seeght loike this! May the Lord ‘
“所以你们一直在谋杀他？”约瑟夫惊恐地举起双手，睁大眼睛，惊呼道。 “如果我能看到这样的景象！”愿主‘

‘Heathcliff gave him a push on to his knees in the middle of the blood, and flung a towel to him; but instead of proceeding to dry it up, he joined his hands and began a prayer, which excited my laughter from its odd phraseology. I was in the condition of mind to be shocked at nothing: in fact, I was as reckless as some malefactors show themselves at the foot of the gallows.
“希刺克厉夫把他推倒在血泊之中，然后把一条毛巾扔给他。但他并没有继续把它擦干，而是双手合十开始祈祷，这奇怪的措辞激起了我的笑声。我当时的心情是无动于衷的：事实上，我就像一些在绞刑架下表现出来的罪犯一样鲁莽。

‘’Oh, I forgot you,’ said the tyrant. ‘You shall do that. Down with you. And you conspire with him against me, do you, viper? There, that is work fit for you!’
“哦，我忘了你，”暴君说。 ‘你应该这么做。随你而下。你和他密谋反对我，是吗，毒蛇？这就是适合你的工作！

‘He shook me till my teeth rattled, and pitched me beside Joseph, who steadily concluded his supplications, and then rose, vowing he would set off for the Grange directly. Mr. Linton was a magistrate, and though he had fifty wives dead, he should inquire into this. He was so obstinate in his resolution, that Heathcliff deemed it expedient to compel from my lips a recapitulation of what had taken place; standing over me, heaving with malevolence, as I reluctantly delivered the account in answer to his questions. It required a great deal of labour to satisfy the old man that Heathcliff was not the aggressor; especially with my hardly-wrung replies. However, Mr. Earnshaw soon convinced him that he was alive still; Joseph hastened to administer a dose of spirits, and by their succour his master presently regained motion and consciousness. Heathcliff, aware that his opponent was ignorant of the treatment received while insensible, called him deliriously intoxicated; and said he should not notice his atrocious conduct further, but advised him to get to bed. To my joy, he left us, after giving this judicious counsel, and Hindley stretched himself on the hearthstone. I departed to my own room, marvelling that I had escaped so easily.
“他摇晃着我，直到我的牙齿格格作响，然后把我放在约瑟夫身边，约瑟夫坚定地完成了他的恳求，然后站起来，发誓他将直接前往田庄。林惇先生是一名地方法官，虽然他有五十个妻子死去，但他应该调查此事。他的决心如此顽固，希刺克厉夫认为有必要强迫我重述所发生的事情。当我不情愿地回答他的问题时，我站在我身边，充满恶意地起伏着。要让老人确信希刺克厉夫不是侵略者，需要付出很大的努力。尤其是我的回复。然而，恩肖先生很快就让他相信自己还活着。约瑟夫赶紧喝了一剂烈酒，在烈酒的帮助下，他的主人很快就恢复了活动和意识。希斯克利夫意识到他的对手在昏迷不醒的情况下对所接受的治疗一无所知，称他喝醉了。并说他不应该再注意到他的残暴行为，但建议他去睡觉。令我高兴的是，他在给出明智的建议后就离开了我们，辛德雷在炉石上躺了下来。我回到自己的房间，惊讶自己竟然如此轻松地逃脱了。

‘This morning, when I came down, about half an hour before noon, Mr. Earnshaw was sitting by the fire, deadly sick; his evil genius, almost as gaunt and ghastly, leant against the chimney. Neither appeared inclined to dine, and, having waited till all was cold on the table, I commenced alone. Nothing hindered me from eating heartily, and I experienced a certain sense of satisfaction and superiority, as, at intervals, I cast a look towards my silent companions, and felt the comfort of a quiet conscience within me. After I had done, I ventured on the unusual liberty of drawing near the fire, going round Earnshaw’s seat, and kneeling in the corner beside him.
“今天早上，当我下来时，距离中午大约半小时，恩肖先生正坐在火边，病得很重。他的邪恶天才几乎同样憔悴而可怕，靠在烟囱上。两人似乎都不想吃饭，等桌子上的东西都凉了，我才独自开始用餐。没有什么能妨碍我尽情地吃东西，我感到一种满足感和优越感，时不时地看看我沉默的同伴，感到内心平静的良心的安慰。做完之后，我大胆地走到火边，绕过恩肖的座位，跪在他旁边的角落里。

‘Heathcliff did not glance my way, and I gazed up, and contemplated his features almost as confidently as if they had been turned to stone. His forehead, that I once thought so manly, and that I now think so diabolical, was shaded with a heavy cloud; his basilisk eyes were nearly quenched by sleeplessness, and weeping, perhaps, for the lashes were wet then: his lips devoid of their ferocious sneer, and sealed in an expression of unspeakable sadness. Had it been another, I would have covered my face in the presence of such grief. In HIS case, I was gratified; and, ignoble as it seems to insult a fallen enemy, I couldn’t miss this chance of sticking in a dart: his weakness was the only time when I could taste the delight of paying wrong for wrong.’
希刺克厉夫没有看我一眼，我抬起头，凝视着他的面容，几乎自信地看着他，仿佛他们已经变成了石头。他的额头，我曾以为他是那么的男子气概，现在我却觉得他是那么的恶魔，被一层厚重的云遮住了。他那双蛇怪般的眼睛几乎因失眠而昏暗，也许还在哭泣，因为当时睫毛还湿漉漉的：他的嘴唇没有凶猛的冷笑，脸上露出难以言喻的悲伤表情。如果是别人，我会在如此悲伤的情况下捂住脸。对于他的情况，我很满意；尽管这似乎是在侮辱倒下的敌人，这似乎是不光彩的，但我不能错过这个插上飞镖的机会：他的弱点是我唯一能尝到以错报错的喜悦的时候。

‘Fie, fie, Miss!’ I interrupted. ‘One might suppose you had never opened a Bible in your life. If God afflict your enemies, surely that ought to suffice you. It is both mean and presumptuous to add your torture to his!’
“呸，呸，小姐！”我打断道。 “人们可能会认为你一生中从未打开过一本圣经。如果上帝让你的敌人受苦，那你当然就足够了。把你的折磨加到他身上，既卑鄙又放肆！

‘In general I’ll allow that it would be, Ellen,’ she continued; ‘but what misery laid on Heathcliff could content me, unless I have a hand in it? I’d rather he suffered less, if I might cause his sufferings and he might KNOW that I was the cause. Oh, I owe him so much. On only one condition can I hope to forgive him. It is, if I may take an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth; for every wrench of agony return a wrench: reduce him to my level. As he was the first to injure, make him the first to implore pardon; and then why then, Ellen, I might show you some generosity. But it is utterly impossible I can ever be revenged, and therefore I cannot forgive him. Hindley wanted some water, and I handed him a glass, and asked him how he was.
“总的来说，我会承认是这样，艾伦，”她继续说道。 “但是，除非我插手，希刺克厉夫所受的苦难怎么能让我满足呢？”我宁愿他少受点苦，如果我可能造成他的痛苦，并且他可能知道我就是原因。唉，我欠他太多了。只有一个条件我才能希望原谅他。如果我可以以眼还眼、以牙还牙的话。对于每一次痛苦的扳手，都应归还一把扳手：将他降低到我的水平。因为他是第一个伤害的人，所以让他第一个请求原谅；那为什么呢，艾伦，我可能会向你表现出一些慷慨。但我根本不可能报仇，因此我无法原谅他。欣德利想要一些水，我递给他一杯水，并问他怎么样。

‘’Not as ill as I wish,’ he replied. ‘But leaving out my arm, every inch of me is as sore as if I had been fighting with a legion of imps!’
“没有我希望的那么严重，”他回答道。 “但是除了我的手臂之外，我的每一寸都像在和一群小鬼战斗一样酸痛！”

‘’Yes, no wonder,’ was my next remark. ‘Catherine used to boast that she stood between you and bodily harm: she meant that certain persons would not hurt you for fear of offending her. It’s well people don’t REALLY rise from their grave, or, last night, she might have witnessed a repulsive scene! Are not you bruised, and cut over your chest and shoulders?’
“是的，难怪，”我的下一句话是。 “凯瑟琳曾经吹嘘说她站在你和身体伤害之间：她的意思是某些人不会伤害你，因为害怕冒犯她。还好人没有真的从坟墓里爬起来，否则昨晚她可能就亲眼目睹了令人厌恶的一幕！你的胸部和肩膀没有被擦伤、割伤吗？

‘’I can’t say,’ he answered, ‘but what do you mean? Did he dare to strike me when I was down?’
“我不能说，”他回答道，“但是你的意思是什么？他敢在我失意的时候打我吗？

‘’He trampled on and kicked you, and dashed you on the ground,’ I whispered. ‘And his mouth watered to tear you with his teeth; because he’s only half man: not so much, and the rest fiend.’
“他践踏你、踢你，把你摔倒在地。”我低声说道。 ‘他口水直流，想用牙齿撕碎你；因为他只是半个人：没那么多，其余的都是恶魔。”

‘Mr. Earnshaw looked up, like me, to the countenance of our mutual foe; who, absorbed in his anguish, seemed insensible to anything around him: the longer he stood, the plainer his reflections revealed their blackness through his features.
'先生。恩肖和我一样，抬头看着我们共同敌人的面容。他全神贯注于痛苦，似乎对周围的一切都麻木不仁：他站得越久，他的倒影透过他的面容就越显露出黑色。

‘’Oh, if God would but give me strength to strangle him in my last agony, I’d go to hell with joy,’ groaned the impatient man, writhing to rise, and sinking back in despair, convinced of his inadequacy for the struggle.
“噢，如果上帝能给我力量，让我在最后的痛苦中掐死他，我就会高兴地下地狱。”这个不耐烦的人呻吟着，扭动着站起来，又绝望地倒在地上，他确信自己无力应对这一切。斗争。

‘’Nay, it’s enough that he has murdered one of you,’ I observed aloud. ‘At the Grange, every one knows your sister would have been living now had it not been for Mr. Heathcliff. After all, it is preferable to be hated than loved by him. When I recollect how happy we were how happy Catherine was before he came I’m fit to curse the day.’
“不，他杀了你们中的一个就够了，”我大声说道。 “在田庄，每个人都知道，如果没有希刺克厉夫先生，你妹妹现在可能还活着。”毕竟，被他恨比被他爱要好。当我回想起他来之前我们是多么幸福凯瑟琳是多么幸福时，我有资格诅咒这一天。

‘Most likely, Heathcliff noticed more the truth of what was said, than the spirit of the person who said it. His attention was roused, I saw, for his eyes rained down tears among the ashes, and he drew his breath in suffocating sighs. I stared full at him, and laughed scornfully. The clouded windows of hell flashed a moment towards me; the fiend which usually looked out, however, was so dimmed and drowned that I did not fear to hazard another sound of derision.
“希刺克厉夫很可能更多地注意到所说内容的真实性，而不是说这句话的人的精神。我看到他的注意力被唤醒了，因为他的眼睛在灰烬中淌下泪水，他窒息地叹了口气。我定定地看着他，轻蔑地笑了笑。地狱的阴云之窗向我闪现了片刻；然而，通常向外张望的恶魔却变得如此暗淡和淹没，以至于我不担心再次发出嘲笑声。

‘’Get up, and begone out of my sight,’ said the mourner.
“起来，离开我的视线，”哀悼者说。

‘I guessed he uttered those words, at least, though his voice was hardly intelligible.
“我猜他至少说过这些话，尽管他的声音很难听懂。

‘’I beg your pardon,’ I replied. ‘But I loved Catherine too; and her brother requires attendance, which, for her sake, I shall supply. Now, that she’s dead, I see her in Hindley: Hindley has exactly her eyes, if you had not tried to gouge them out, and made them black and red; and her ‘
“请原谅，”我回答道。 “但我也爱凯瑟琳；她的兄弟需要出席，为了她的缘故，我会提供。现在，她死了，我在辛德雷身上看到了她：辛德雷的眼睛和她一模一样，如果你没有试图把它们挖出来，让它们变成黑色和红色的话；和她 '

‘’Get up, wretched idiot, before I stamp you to death!’ he cried, making a movement that caused me to make one also.
“起来，可怜的白痴，在我踩死你之前！”他喊道，做了一个动作，让我也做了一个动作。

‘’But then,’ I continued, holding myself ready to flee, ‘if poor Catherine had trusted you, and assumed the ridiculous, contemptible, degrading title of Mrs. Heathcliff, she would soon have presented a similar picture! SHE wouldn’t have borne your abominable behaviour quietly: her detestation and disgust must have found voice.’
“但是，”我继续说，做好逃跑的准备，“如果可怜的凯瑟琳信任你，并采用希斯克利夫夫人这个可笑、可鄙、有辱人格的头衔，她很快就会呈现出类似的景象！她不会安静地忍受你的恶劣行为：她的厌恶和厌恶一定已经表达出来了。

‘The back of the settle and Earnshaw’s person interposed between me and him; so instead of endeavouring to reach me, he snatched a dinner-knife from the table and flung it at my head. It struck beneath my ear, and stopped the sentence I was uttering; but, pulling it out, I sprang to the door and delivered another; which I hope went a little deeper than his missile. The last glimpse I caught of him was a furious rush on his part, checked by the embrace of his host; and both fell locked together on the hearth. In my flight through the kitchen I bid Joseph speed to his master; I knocked over Hareton, who was hanging a litter of puppies from a chair-back in the doorway; and, blessed as a soul escaped from purgatory, I bounded, leaped, and flew down the steep road; then, quitting its windings, shot direct across the moor, rolling over banks, and wading through marshes: precipitating myself, in fact, towards the beacon-light of the Grange. And far rather would I be condemned to a perpetual dwelling in the infernal regions than, even for one night, abide beneath the roof of Wuthering Heights again.’
“长椅的靠背和恩肖的人挡在我和他之间；因此，他没有试图接近我，而是从桌子上抓起一把餐刀，朝我的头扔去。它击中了我的耳下，让我停止了说话；但是，当我把它拿出来时，我跳到门口，又递了一份。我希望比他的导弹更深一点。我最后一眼看到他时，他猛烈地冲过去，主人的拥抱阻止了他。两人都锁在一起倒在壁炉边。当我飞过厨房时，我吩咐约瑟夫快点去找他的主人。我撞倒了哈里顿，他正把一窝小狗挂在门口的椅背上。我像脱离了炼狱的灵魂一样受到祝福，沿着陡峭的道路跳跃、跳跃、飞翔。然后，离开蜿蜒的道路，直接穿过荒野，翻过河岸，涉过沼泽：事实上，我正朝着田庄的灯塔方向前进。我宁愿永远住在地狱里，也不愿再次住在呼啸山庄的屋顶下，哪怕只是一晚。

Isabella ceased speaking, and took a drink of tea; then she rose, and bidding me put on her bonnet, and a great shawl I had brought, and turning a deaf ear to my entreaties for her to remain another hour, she stepped on to a chair, kissed Edgar’s and Catherine’s portraits, bestowed a similar salute on me, and descended to the carriage, accompanied by Fanny, who yelped wild with joy at recovering her mistress. She was driven away, never to revisit this neighbourhood: but a regular correspondence was established between her and my master when things were more settled. I believe her new abode was in the south, near London; there she had a son born a few months subsequent to her escape. He was christened Linton, and, from the first, she reported him to be an ailing, peevish creature.
伊莎贝拉不再说话，喝了口茶。然后她站了起来，吩咐我戴上她的帽子和我带来的一条大围巾，对我让她再呆一个小时的恳求充耳不闻，她走到一张椅子上，亲吻了埃德加和凯瑟琳的肖像，授予了我也向我行了同样的礼，然后在范妮的陪同下下了马车，范妮因找到了她的女主人而高兴得狂叫起来。她被赶走了，再也没有回到这个街区：但当事情稳定下来后，她和我的主人之间建立了定期的通信。我相信她的新住所位于南部，靠近伦敦；逃亡几个月后，她在那里生了一个儿子。他被命名为林顿，从一开始，她就报告说他是一个生病的、脾气暴躁的人。

Mr. Heathcliff, meeting me one day in the village, inquired where she lived. I refused to tell. He remarked that it was not of any moment, only she must beware of coming to her brother: she should not be with him, if he had to keep her himself. Though I would give no information, he discovered, through some of the other servants, both her place of residence and the existence of the child. Still, he didn’t molest her: for which forbearance she might thank his aversion, I suppose. He often asked about the infant, when he saw me; and on hearing its name, smiled grimly, and observed: ‘They wish me to hate it too, do they?’
有一天，希刺克厉夫先生在村里遇见我，询问她住在哪里。我拒绝透露。他说这不是任何时候都可以的，只是她必须小心不要到她哥哥那里去：如果他必须亲自留住她，她就不应该和他在一起。虽然我不愿透露任何信息，但他通过其他一些仆人知道了她的住处和孩子的存在。尽管如此，他并没有骚扰她：我想，她的忍耐可能会感谢他的厌恶。当他见到我时，他经常询问婴儿的情况。当听到它的名字时，他冷酷地笑了笑，说道：“他们希望我也讨厌它，是吗？”

‘I don’t think they wish you to know anything about it,’ I answered.
“我认为他们不希望你知道任何事情，”我回答道。

‘But I’ll have it,’ he said, ‘when I want it. They may reckon on that!’
“但我会得到它，”他说，“当我想要的时候。”他们可能会想到这一点！

Fortunately its mother died before the time arrived; some thirteen years after the decease of Catherine, when Linton was twelve, or a little more.
幸运的是，它的母亲在时间到来之前就去世了；凯瑟琳死后大约十三年，林惇十二岁，或者更多一点。

On the day succeeding Isabella’s unexpected visit I had no opportunity of speaking to my master: he shunned conversation, and was fit for discussing nothing. When I could get him to listen, I saw it pleased him that his sister had left her husband; whom he abhorred with an intensity which the mildness of his nature would scarcely seem to allow. So deep and sensitive was his aversion, that he refrained from going anywhere where he was likely to see or hear of Heathcliff. Grief, and that together, transformed him into a complete hermit: he threw up his office of magistrate, ceased even to attend church, avoided the village on all occasions, and spent a life of entire seclusion within the limits of his park and grounds; only varied by solitary rambles on the moors, and visits to the grave of his wife, mostly at evening, or early morning before other wanderers were abroad. But he was too good to be thoroughly unhappy long. HE didn’t pray for Catherine’s soul to haunt him. Time brought resignation, and a melancholy sweeter than common joy. He recalled her memory with ardent, tender love, and hopeful aspiring to the better world; where he doubted not she was gone.
伊莎贝拉意外来访的第二天，我没有机会与我的主人交谈：他回避谈话，也不适合讨论任何事情。当我让他听的时候，我发现他很高兴他的妹妹离开了她的丈夫。他对他的憎恶之强烈，是他温和的本性所不允许的。他的厌恶是如此深刻和敏感，以至于他没有去任何他可能看到或听到希刺克厉夫的地方。悲伤，加上这一切，使他变成了一个彻底的隐士：他放弃了治安官的职位，甚至不再去教堂，在任何场合都避开村庄，在他的公园和庭院内度过了完全隐居的生活；唯一不同的是，他会在荒原上独自漫步，以及拜访妻子的坟墓，大部分时间是在晚上，或者是在其他流浪者出国之前的清晨。但他太优秀了，不可能长期不快乐。他没有祈祷凯瑟琳的灵魂困扰他。时间带来了无奈，以及一种比平常的欢乐更甜蜜的忧郁。他怀着热烈、温柔的爱和对更美好世界的希望回忆起她的记忆。他毫不怀疑她已经走了。

And he had earthly consolation and affections also. For a few days, I said, he seemed regardless of the puny successor to the departed: that coldness melted as fast as snow in April, and ere the tiny thing could stammer a word or totter a step it wielded a despot’s sceptre in his heart. It was named Catherine; but he never called it the name in full, as he had never called the first Catherine short: probably because Heathcliff had a habit of doing so. The little one was always Cathy: it formed to him a distinction from the mother, and yet a connection with her; and his attachment sprang from its relation to her, far more than from its being his own.
他也有尘世的安慰和感情。我说，有几天，他似乎对逝者的微不足道的继承人毫不在意：那种寒冷像四月的雪一样融化得很快，在这个小东西能结结巴巴地说一句话或踉踉跄跄地走一步之前，它就在他的心里挥舞着暴君的权杖。 。它的名字叫凯瑟琳；但他从未将其全称，就像他从未将第一个凯瑟琳称为简短的一样：可能是因为希刺克厉夫有这样做的习惯。这个小家伙总是凯茜：这对他来说是与母亲的区别，但又与她有联系。他的依恋源于与她的关系，而不是源于他自己的关系。

I used to draw a comparison between him and Hindley Earnshaw, and perplex myself to explain satisfactorily why their conduct was so opposite in similar circumstances. They had both been fond husbands, and were both attached to their children; and I could not see how they shouldn’t both have taken the same road, for good or evil. But, I thought in my mind, Hindley, with apparently the stronger head, has shown himself sadly the worse and the weaker man. When his ship struck, the captain abandoned his post; and the crew, instead of trying to save her, rushed into riot and confusion, leaving no hope for their luckless vessel. Linton, on the contrary, displayed the true courage of a loyal and faithful soul: he trusted God; and God comforted him. One hoped, and the other despaired: they chose their own lots, and were righteously doomed to endure them. But you’ll not want to hear my moralising, Mr. Lockwood; you’ll judge, as well as I can, all these things: at least, you’ll think you will, and that’s the same. The end of Earnshaw was what might have been expected; it followed fast on his sister’s: there were scarcely six months between them. We, at the Grange, never got a very succinct account of his state preceding it; all that I did learn was on occasion of going to aid in the preparations for the funeral. Mr. Kenneth came to announce the event to my master.
我常常将他和辛德利·恩肖进行比较，并困惑自己如何令人满意地解释为什么他们在相似的情况下行为如此相反。他们都曾是慈爱的丈夫，也都很疼爱自己的孩子。我不明白他们为什么不应该走同一条路，无论是好还是坏。但是，我心里想，辛德雷显然有着更坚强的头脑，可悲的是，他却表现得更糟糕、更软弱。当他的船发生碰撞时，船长放弃了他的岗位。船员们非但没有试图拯救她，反而陷入了骚乱和混乱，这让这艘不幸的船失去了希望。相反，林顿展示了忠实和忠实的灵魂的真正勇气：他信任上帝。神安慰了他。一个希望，另一个绝望：他们选择了自己的命运，并且理所应当地注定要忍受这些命运。但你不会想听我的说教，洛克伍德先生；你会像我一样判断所有这些事情：至少，你会认为你会，那是一样的。恩肖的结局是意料之中的。他姐姐的情况也紧随其后：他们之间的间隔还不到六个月。我们在田庄从来没有得到过关于他在此之前的状态的非常简洁的描述。我所学到的一切都是在去帮忙准备葬礼的时候学到的。肯尼斯先生来向我的主人宣布这件事。

‘Well, Nelly,’ said he, riding into the yard one morning, too early not to alarm me with an instant presentiment of bad news, ‘it’s yours and my turn to go into mourning at present. Who’s given us the slip now, do you think?’
“好吧，耐莉，”一天早上，他骑着马走进院子，时间太早了，我立刻就收到了坏消息的预感，说道，“现在轮到你和我来哀悼了。你认为现在是谁给了我们机会？

‘Who?’ I asked in a flurry.
“谁？”我急忙问道。

‘Why, guess!’ he returned, dismounting, and slinging his bridle on a hook by the door. ‘And nip up the corner of your apron: I’m certain you’ll need it.’
“嘿，猜猜看！”他回答道，下了马，把缰绳挂在门边的钩子上。 “然后夹起你的围裙一角：我确信你会需要它。”

‘Not Mr. Heathcliff, surely?’ I exclaimed.
“肯定不是希刺克厉夫先生吧？”我惊呼道。

‘What! would you have tears for him?’ said the doctor. ‘No, Heathcliff’s a tough young fellow: he looks blooming to-day. I’ve just seen him. He’s rapidly regaining flesh since he lost his better half.’
'什么！你会为他流泪吗？”医生说。 “不，希刺克厉夫是个坚强的年轻人：他今天看起来精力充沛。我刚刚见过他。自从失去了另一半后，他正在迅速恢复肌肉。”

‘Who is it, then, Mr. Kenneth?’ I repeated impatiently.
“那么，肯尼思先生，他是谁？”我不耐烦地重复道。

‘Hindley Earnshaw! Your old friend Hindley,’ he replied, ‘and my wicked gossip: though he’s been too wild for me this long while. There! I said we should draw water. But cheer up! He died true to his character: drunk as a lord. Poor lad! I’m sorry, too. One can’t help missing an old companion: though he had the worst tricks with him that ever man imagined, and has done me many a rascally turn. He’s barely twenty-seven, it seems; that’s your own age: who would have thought you were born in one year?’
欣德利·恩萧！你的老朋友欣德利，”他回答道，“还有我的邪恶八卦：尽管他这么长时间以来对我来说太疯狂了。那里！我说我们应该去打水。但振作起来！他忠于自己的性格而死：醉得像个领主。可怜的小伙子！我也很抱歉。人们情不自禁地想念一位老伙伴：尽管他对我做了人类想象不到的最糟糕的把戏，并且对我做了很多无赖的事情。他看起来还不到二十七岁。那是你自己的年龄：谁会想到你是一年内出生的？

I confess this blow was greater to me than the shock of Mrs. Linton’s death: ancient associations lingered round my heart; I sat down in the porch and wept as for a blood relation, desiring Mr. Kenneth to get another servant to introduce him to the master. I could not hinder myself from pondering on the question ‘Had he had fair play?’ Whatever I did, that idea would bother me: it was so tiresomely pertinacious that I resolved on requesting leave to go to Wuthering Heights, and assist in the last duties to the dead. Mr. Linton was extremely reluctant to consent, but I pleaded eloquently for the friendless condition in which he lay; and I said my old master and foster-brother had a claim on my services as strong as his own. Besides, I reminded him that the child Hareton was his wife’s nephew, and, in the absence of nearer kin, he ought to act as its guardian; and he ought to and must inquire how the property was left, and look over the concerns of his brother-inlaw. He was unfit for attending to such matters then, but he bid me speak to his lawyer; and at length permitted me to go. His lawyer had been Earnshaw’s also: I called at the village, and asked him to accompany me. He shook his head, and advised that Heathcliff should be let alone; affirming, if the truth were known, Hareton would be found little else than a beggar.
我承认，这次打击对我来说比林惇夫人的死所带来的震惊更大：古老的联想萦绕在我的心头；我坐在门廊上，像为有血缘关系的人一样哭泣，希望肯尼思先生再找一个仆人把他介绍给主人。我无法阻止自己思考这个问题：“他公平竞争吗？”无论我做什么，这个想法都会困扰我：它是如此令人厌烦的顽固，以至于我决定请假去呼啸山庄，并协助最后的工作。对死者的义务。林惇先生极不情愿地同意了，但我雄辩地为他所处的没有朋友的境况辩解。我说我的老主人和养兄对我的服务的要求和他自己的服务一样强烈。此外，我提醒他，孩子哈里顿是他妻子的侄子，如果没有近亲，他应该充当孩子的监护人；他应该而且必须询问财产是怎么留下的，并关心他姐夫的担忧。那时他不适合处理这些事情，但他吩咐我和他的律师谈谈。最后允许我离开。他的律师也是恩肖的律师：我到村子里拜访，请他陪我一起去。他摇摇头，建议不要打扰希刺克厉夫。可以肯定的是，如果真相大白，哈里顿就只不过是一个乞丐。

‘His father died in debt,’ he said; ‘the whole property is mortgaged, and the sole chance for the natural heir is to allow him an opportunity of creating some interest in the creditor’s heart, that he may be inclined to deal leniently towards him.’
“他的父亲死于债务，”他说； “整个财产都被抵押了，自然继承人的唯一机会就是让他有机会在债权人的心中创造一些利益，这样他可能会倾向于对他宽大处理。”

When I reached the Heights, I explained that I had come to see everything carried on decently; and Joseph, who appeared in sufficient distress, expressed satisfaction at my presence. Mr. Heathcliff said he did not perceive that I was wanted; but I might stay and order the arrangements for the funeral, if I chose.
当我到达高地时，我解释说我来这里是为了看到一切都在顺利进行。约瑟夫看上去很痛苦，但对我的出现表示满意。希刺克厉夫先生说他并不认为有人需要我；但如果我愿意的话，我可能会留下来安排葬礼。

‘Correctly,’ he remarked, ‘that fool’s body should he buried at the cross-roads, without ceremony of any kind. I happened to leave him ten minutes yesterday afternoon, and in that interval he fastened the two doors of the house against me, and he has spent the night in drinking himself to death deliberately! We broke in this morning, for we heard him sporting like a horse; and there he was, laid over the settle: flaying and scalping would not have wakened him. I sent for Kenneth, and he came; but not till the beast had changed into carrion: he was both dead and cold, and stark; and so you’ll allow it was useless making more stir about him!’
“没错，”他说，“那个傻瓜的尸体应该埋在十字路口，不进行任何形式的仪式。昨天下午我碰巧离开他十分钟，在这段时间里，他把房子的两扇门紧紧地锁在我身上，他故意喝醉了一夜！今天早上我们闯入，因为我们听到他像一匹马一样嬉戏。他就在那里，躺在长椅上：剥皮和剥头皮不会吵醒他。我派人去找肯尼思，他来了；但直到那头野兽变成了腐肉：他已经死了，冰冷，面目赤裸。所以你得承认，再多炒作他是没有用的！”

The old servant confirmed this statement, but muttered:
老仆人证实了这个说法，但嘀咕道：

‘I’d rayther he’d goan hisseln for t’ doctor! I sud ha,’ taen tent o’ t’ maister better nor him and he warn’t deead when I left, naught o’ t’ soart!’
“我希望他自己去找医生！”我很高兴，“我离开时，他和他都没有死，没有死！”

I insisted on the funeral being respectable. Mr. Heathcliff said I might have my own way there too: only, he desired me to remember that the money for the whole affair came out of his pocket. He maintained a hard, careless deportment, indicative of neither joy nor sorrow: if anything, it expressed a flinty gratification at a piece of difficult work successfully executed. I observed once, indeed, something like exultation in his aspect: it was just when the people were bearing the coffin from the house. He had the hypocrisy to represent a mourner: and previous to following with Hareton, he lifted the unfortunate child on to the table and muttered, with peculiar gusto, ‘Now, my bonny lad, you are MINE! And we’ll see if one tree won’t grow as crooked as another, with the same wind to twist it!’ The unsuspecting thing was pleased at this speech: he played with Heathcliff’s whiskers, and stroked his cheek; but I divined its meaning, and observed tartly, ‘That boy must go back with me to Thrushcross Grange, sir. There is nothing in the world less yours than he is!’
我坚持要求葬礼要体面。希斯克利夫先生说我也可能有自己的办法：只是，他希望我记住整个事件的钱都是从他的口袋里掏出来的。他保持着一种严肃、漫不经心的举止，既没有表现出喜悦，也没有表现出悲伤：如果说有什么不同的话，那就是表达了对一项成功完成的艰巨工作的坚定的满足。有一次，我确实在他的脸上看到了某种类似狂喜的表情：就在人们从屋子里搬出棺材的时候。他虚伪地代表了一个哀悼者：在跟随哈里顿之前，他把这个不幸的孩子抱到桌子上，带着奇特的热情嘀咕道：“现在，我漂亮的小伙子，你是我的了！”我们会看看一棵树是否会像另一棵树一样弯曲，用同样的风来扭曲它！’毫无戒心的东西对这句话感到很高兴：他玩弄着希刺克厉夫的胡须，抚摸着他的脸颊；但我猜出了它的意思，并尖刻地说道：“那个男孩必须跟我一起回画眉田庄，先生。”世界上没有什么比他更不属于你的了！

‘Does Linton say so?’ he demanded.
“林顿是这么说的吗？”他问道。

‘Of course he has ordered me to take him,’ I replied.
“当然是他命令我带他去的，”我回答道。

‘Well,’ said the scoundrel, ‘we’ll not argue the subject now: but I have a fancy to try my hand at rearing a young one; so intimate to your master that I must supply the place of this with my own, if he attempt to remove it. I don’t engage to let Hareton go undisputed; but I’ll be pretty sure to make the other come! Remember to tell him.’
“好吧，”恶棍说，“我们现在不争论这个话题了：不过我很想尝试一下养育一只小家伙；与你的主人如此亲密，如果他试图把它移走，我必须用我自己的地方来代替它。我不会让哈里顿毫无争议地离开；但我一定会让另一个来的！记得告诉他。”

This hint was enough to bind our hands. I repeated its substance on my return; and Edgar Linton, little interested at the commencement, spoke no more of interfering. I’m not aware that he could have done it to any purpose, had he been ever so willing.
这个暗示就足以束缚我们的手脚了。我回来后又重复了它的实质内容；埃德加·林惇对毕业典礼不感兴趣，也不再说什么要干涉。我不知道如果他愿意的话，他可以达到任何目的。

The guest was now the master of Wuthering Heights: he held firm possession, and proved to the attorney who, in his turn, proved it to Mr. Linton that Earnshaw had mortgaged every yard of land he owned for cash to supply his mania for gaming; and he, Heathcliff, was the mortgagee. In that manner Hareton, who should now be the first gentleman in the neighbourhood, was reduced to a state of complete dependence on his father’s inveterate enemy; and lives in his own house as a servant, deprived of the advantage of wages: quite unable to right himself, because of his friendlessness, and his ignorance that he has been wronged.
这位客人现在是呼啸山庄的主人：他牢牢地占有了呼啸山庄的所有权，并向律师证明，而律师又向林惇先生证明，恩肖已经抵押了他所拥有的每一码土地来换取现金，以满足他对赌博的狂热。 ;而他，希刺克厉夫，就是抵押权人。就这样，哈里顿现在应该是附近的第一绅士，却陷入了完全依赖他父亲的宿敌的境地。他以仆人的身份住在自己的房子里，被剥夺了工资的好处：由于他没有朋友，而且不知道自己受到了冤屈，所以完全无法纠正自己。

Chapter XVIII
第十八章

THE twelve years, continued Mrs. Dean, following that dismal period were the happiest of my life: my greatest troubles in their passage rose from our little lady’s trifling illnesses, which she had to experience in common with all children, rich and poor. For the rest, after the first six months, she grew like a larch, and could walk and talk too, in her own way, before the heath blossomed a second time over Mrs. Linton’s dust. She was the most winning thing that ever brought sunshine into a desolate house: a real beauty in face, with the Earnshaws’ handsome dark eyes, but the Lintons’ fair skin and small features, and yellow curling hair. Her spirit was high, though not rough, and qualified by a heart sensitive and lively to excess in its affections. That capacity for intense attachments reminded me of her mother: still she did not resemble her: for she could be soft and mild as a dove, and she had a gentle voice and pensive expression: her anger was never furious; her love never fierce: it was deep and tender. However, it must be acknowledged, she had faults to foil her gifts. A propensity to be saucy was one; and a perverse will, that indulged children invariably acquire, whether they be good tempered or cross. If a servant chanced to vex her, it was always ‘I shall tell papa!’ And if he reproved her, even by a look, you would have thought it a heart-breaking business: I don’t believe he ever did speak a harsh word to her. He took her education entirely on himself, and made it an amusement. Fortunately, curiosity and a quick intellect made her an apt scholar: she learned rapidly and eagerly, and did honour to his teaching.
迪恩夫人继续说，在那段令人沮丧的时期之后，是我一生中最幸福的时光：我在这段时间里最大的麻烦来自于我们小女士的小病，她与所有孩子，无论贫富，都必须经历这些疾病。至于剩下的，在头六个月之后，她长得像一棵落叶松，也能以自己的方式走路和说话，直到石南丛生在林惇夫人的尘土上第二次绽放。她是给荒凉的房子带来阳光的最迷人的人物：一张真正的美丽面孔，有着恩肖一家英俊的黑眼睛，但林顿一家白皙的皮肤和小巧的五官，还有黄色的卷发。她的精神很高尚，但并不粗暴，并且有一颗敏感而活泼的心，感情丰富。这种强烈依恋的能力让我想起了她的母亲：但她仍然不像她：因为她可以像鸽子一样温柔和温和，她有温柔的声音和沉思的表情：她的愤怒从不激烈;她的爱从不激烈：它深沉而温柔。但必须承认，她的天赋也有缺陷。其中之一就是爱调皮。任性的孩子，无论脾气好还是脾气暴躁，都不可避免地会养成乖僻的意志。如果一个仆人碰巧惹恼了她，她总是说“我要告诉爸爸！”如果他责备她，即使只是看一眼，你也会认为这是一件令人心碎的事情：我不相信他曾经说过一句话对她说严厉的话。他完全亲自接受了她的教育，并把它当作一种乐趣。幸运的是，好奇心和敏捷的智力使她成为一名聪明的学者：她学得又快又热切，并尊重他的教导。

Till she reached the age of thirteen she had not once been beyond the range of the park by herself. Mr. Linton would take her with him a mile or so outside, on rare occasions; but he trusted her to no one else. Gimmerton was an unsubstantial name in her ears; the chapel, the only building she had approached or entered, except her own home. Wuthering Heights and Mr. Heathcliff did not exist for her: she was a perfect recluse; and, apparently, perfectly contented. Sometimes, indeed, while surveying the country from her nursery window, she would observe -
直到她十三岁为止，她还没有一次独自走出过公园的范围。林惇先生偶尔会带她到外面一英里左右的地方。但他不信任她任何人。吉默顿在她耳中是一个虚无缥缈的名字。教堂是她除了自己的家之外唯一接近或进入过的建筑。呼啸山庄和希刺克厉夫先生对她来说并不存在：她是一个完美的隐士；她是一个完美的隐士。而且，显然，他非常满足。事实上，有时候，当她从托儿所的窗户观察这个国家时，她会观察到——

‘Ellen, how long will it be before I can walk to the top of those hills? I wonder what lies on the other side is it the sea?’
“艾伦，我要多久才能走到那些山顶？我想知道另一边是什么，是海吗？

‘No, Miss Cathy,’ I would answer; ‘it is hills again, just like these.’
“不，凯茜小姐，”我会回答。 “又是山了，就像这些一样。”

‘And what are those golden rocks like when you stand under them?’ she once asked.
“当你站在那些金色的岩石下面时，它们是什么样子？”她曾经问道。

The abrupt descent of Penistone Crags particularly attracted her notice; especially when the setting sun shone on it and the topmost heights, and the whole extent of landscape besides lay in shadow. I explained that they were bare masses of stone, with hardly enough earth in their clefts to nourish a stunted tree.
佩尼斯通峭壁的突然下降特别引起了她的注意。尤其是当夕阳照射在它和最高的高度上时，整个景观都笼罩在阴影中。我解释说，它们都是裸露的石头，裂缝中几乎没有足够的泥土来滋养一棵发育不良的树。

‘And why are they bright so long after it is evening here?’ she pursued.
“为什么这里入夜后这么久，它们还是那么亮？”她追问。

‘Because they are a great deal higher up than we are,’ replied I; ‘you could not climb them, they are too high and steep. In winter the frost is always there before it comes to us; and deep into summer I have found snow under that black hollow on the north-east side!’
“因为他们的地位比我们高得多，”我回答道。 “你无法攀爬它们，它们太高太陡了。”冬天，霜总是在它到来之前就已经存在了；到了盛夏，我在东北侧那个黑色的洼地下面发现了雪！

‘Oh, you have been on them!’ she cried gleefully. ‘Then I can go, too, when I am a woman. Has papa been, Ellen?’
“哦，你已经上了它们！”她高兴地喊道。 “那我也可以去，等我是女人了。”爸爸去过吗，艾伦？

‘Papa would tell you, Miss,’ I answered, hastily, ‘that they are not worth the trouble of visiting. The moors, where you ramble with him, are much nicer; and Thrushcross Park is the finest place in the world.’
“小姐，爸爸会告诉你，”我急忙回答，“他们不值得费心去拜访。”与他一起漫步的荒野要美好得多。画眉公园是世界上最好的地方。”

‘But I know the park, and I don’t know those,’ she murmured to herself. ‘And I should delight to look round me from the brow of that tallest point: my little pony Minny shall take me some time.’
“但我知道这个公园，但我不知道那些，”她自言自语道。 “我会很高兴从最高点的额头环顾四周：我的小马明妮会花我一些时间。”

One of the maids mentioning the Fairy Cave, quite turned her head with a desire to fulfil this project: she teased Mr. Linton about it; and he promised she should have the journey when she got older. But Miss Catherine measured her age by months, and, ‘Now, am I old enough to go to Penistone Crags?’ was the constant question in her mouth. The road thither wound close by Wuthering Heights. Edgar had not the heart to pass it; so she received as constantly the answer, ‘Not yet, love: not yet.’
一位女仆提到仙洞，立刻转过头来，一心想要完成这个计划：她拿这件事取笑林惇先生；他答应她长大后应该去旅行。但凯瑟琳小姐以月为单位来衡量自己的年龄，“现在，我够大了，可以去佩尼斯通峭壁了吗？”这是她嘴里不断提出的问题。通往那里的路在呼啸山庄附近蜿蜒而行。埃德加不忍心通过它。所以她总是收到这样的回答：“还没有，亲爱的：还没有。”

I said Mrs. Heathcliff lived above a dozen years after quitting her husband. Her family were of a delicate constitution: she and Edgar both lacked the ruddy health that you will generally meet in these parts. What her last illness was, I am not certain: I conjecture, they died of the same thing, a kind of fever, slow at its commencement, but incurable, and rapidly consuming life towards the close. She wrote to inform her brother of the probable conclusion of a four-months’ indisposition under which she had suffered, and entreated him to come to her, if possible; for she had much to settle, and she wished to bid him adieu, and deliver Linton safely into his hands. Her hope was that Linton might be left with him, as he had been with her: his father, she would fain convince herself, had no desire to assume the burden of his maintenance or education. My master hesitated not a moment in complying with her request: reluctant as he was to leave home at ordinary calls, he flew to answer this; commanding Catherine to my peculiar vigilance, in his absence, with reiterated orders that she must not wander out of the park, even under my escort he did not calculate on her going unaccompanied.
我说希斯克利夫夫人离开丈夫后又活了十几年。她的家人体质都很弱：她和埃德加都缺乏这些地方常见的红润健康状况。她最后的病是什么，我不确定：我猜想，他们死于同一件事，一种发烧，开始时缓慢，但无法治愈，并在接近结束时迅速消耗生命。她写信告诉她的兄弟，她四个月来的身体不适可能已经结束，并恳求他如果可能的话就来找她。因为她还有很多事要解决，她想向他告别，并将林惇安全地交到他手中。她希望林惇能留下来和他在一起，就像他和她在一起一样：她很想说服自己，他的父亲不想承担他的赡养或教育负担。我的主人毫不犹豫地答应了她的请求：尽管他不愿意在平常的召唤下离开家，但他还是飞去应了这个要求；在他不在的情况下，我命令凯瑟琳要特别警惕，并一再命令她不得走出公园，即使在我的护送下，他也不认为她会无人陪伴。

He was away three weeks. The first day or two my charge sat in a corner of the library, too sad for either reading or playing: in that quiet state she caused me little trouble; but it was succeeded by an interval of impatient, fretful weariness; and being too busy, and too old then, to run up and down amusing her, I hit on a method by which she might entertain herself. I used to send her on her travels round the grounds now on foot, and now on a pony; indulging her with a patient audience of all her real and imaginary adventures when she returned.
他离开了三个星期。第一天或两天，我的照顾者坐在图书馆的一个角落里，太悲伤了，无法读书或玩耍：在那种安静的状态下，她给我带来了一些麻烦；但随之而来的是一段不耐烦、烦躁的疲倦。由于太忙，年纪也太大了，无法跑来跑去逗她开心，我想出了一个让她自娱自乐的方法。我过去常常送她去周围的地方旅行，现在是步行，现在是骑小马。当她回来时，让耐心的观众让她沉浸在她所有真实和想象的冒险中。

The summer shone in full prime; and she took such a taste for this solitary rambling that she often contrived to remain out from breakfast till tea; and then the evenings were spent in recounting her fanciful tales. I did not fear her breaking bounds; because the gates were generally looked, and I thought she would scarcely venture forth alone, if they had stood wide open. Unluckily, my confidence proved misplaced. Catherine came to me, one morning, at eight o’clock, and said she was that day an Arabian merchant, going to cross the Desert with his caravan; and I must give her plenty of provision for herself and beasts: a horse, and three camels, personated by a large hound and a couple of pointers. I got together good store of dainties, and slung them in a basket on one side of the saddle; and she sprang up as gay as a fairy, sheltered by her wide-brimmed hat and gauze veil from the July sun, and trotted off with a merry laugh, mocking my cautious counsel to avoid galloping, and come back early. The naughty thing never made her appearance at tea. One traveller, the hound, being an old dog and fond of its ease, returned; but neither Cathy, nor the pony, nor the two pointers were visible in any direction: I despatched emissaries down this path, and that path, and at last went wandering in search of her myself. There was a labourer working at a fence round a plantation, on the borders of the grounds. I inquired of him if he had seen our young lady.
夏天正值盛夏。她非常喜欢这种孤独的胡言乱语，以至于她常常设法从早餐到下午茶都没有出去。然后晚上就花在讲述她的奇幻故事上。我并不担心她打破界限；因为大门通常都被人监视着，我想如果大门敞开着，她几乎不会独自冒险出去。不幸的是，我的信心被证明是错误的。一天早上八点钟，凯瑟琳来找我，说她那天是一位阿拉伯商人，要带着他的商队穿越沙漠。我必须为她自己和牲畜提供足够的食物：一匹马和三只骆驼，由一只大猎犬和几只指示犬扮演。我收集了很多美味佳肴，把它们挂在马鞍一侧的篮子里。她像仙女一样欢快地跳了起来，戴着宽边帽，戴着薄纱遮蔽了七月的阳光，欢快地笑着小跑着走，嘲笑我小心翼翼的劝告，不要疾驰，早点回来。这个顽皮的东西从来没有在喝茶时出现过。一位旅行者，猎犬，是一只老狗，喜欢安逸，回来了。但无论是凯茜，还是那匹小马，还是那两个指针，在任何方向上都看不见：我派遣使者沿着这条路、那条路走下去，最后我自己去寻找她。有一名工人在种植园周围的栅栏前工作，就在种植园的边界上。我问他是否见过我们的小姐。

‘I saw her at morn,’ he replied: ‘she would have me to cut her a hazel switch, and then she leapt her Galloway over the hedge yonder, where it is lowest, and galloped out of sight.’
“我早上看到了她，”他回答道，“她要我给她砍一根榛树，然后她就让她的加洛威犬跳过那边树篱最低的地方，然后疾驰而去，消失在视线之外。”

You may guess how I felt at hearing this news. It struck me directly she must have started for Penistone Crags. ‘What will become of her?’ I ejaculated, pushing through a gap which the man was repairing, and making straight to the high-road. I walked as if for a wager, mile after mile, till a turn brought me in view of the Heights; but no Catherine could I detect, far or near. The Crags lie about a mile and a half beyond Mr. Heathcliff’s place, and that is four from the Grange, so I began to fear night would fall ere I could reach them. ‘And what if she should have slipped in clambering among them,’ I reflected, ‘and been killed, or broken some of her bones?’ My suspense was truly painful; and, at first, it gave me delightful relief to observe, in hurrying by the farmhouse, Charlie, the fiercest of the pointers, lying under a window, with swelled head and bleeding ear. I opened the wicket and ran to the door, knocking vehemently for admittance. A woman whom I knew, and who formerly lived at Gimmerton, answered: she had been servant there since the death of Mr. Earnshaw.
你可能猜到我听到这个消息时的感受。我直接想到她一定是为佩尼斯通峭壁出发的。 “她会怎么样？”我脱口而出，推开那人正在修补的一个缺口，径直走向大路。我像打赌一样走着，一英里又一英里，直到一个转弯让我看到了高地。但无论远近，我都找不到凯瑟琳。峭壁村距离希刺克厉夫先生的住所大约一英里半，距离田庄有四英里，所以我开始担心在我到达那里之前夜幕就会降临。 “如果她在爬行时滑倒了，”我想，“然后被杀，或者骨折了怎么办？”我的悬念确实令人痛苦；起初，当我看到查理，这个最凶猛的指针，躺在窗下，头肿了，耳朵流血时，我感到欣慰地松了口气。我打开检票门，跑到门口，用力敲门请求进入。我认识的一位以前住在吉默顿的女人回答说：自从恩肖先生去世后，她就一直在那里当仆人。

‘Ah,’ said she, ‘you are come a-seeking your little mistress! Don’t be frightened. She’s here safe: but I’m glad it isn’t the master.’
“啊，”她说，“你是来找你的小情妇的！”不要害怕。她在这里很安全：但我很高兴那不是主人。”

‘He is not at home then, is he?’ I panted, quite breathless with quick walking and alarm.
“那么他不在家，是吗？”我气喘吁吁，快步走着，气喘吁吁，惊慌失措。

‘No, no,’ she replied: ‘both he and Joseph are off, and I think they won’t return this hour or more. Step in and rest you a bit.’
“不，不，”她回答道：“他和约瑟夫都出去了，我想他们这个小时或更长时间不会回来。”进来休息一下。

I entered, and beheld my stray lamb seated on the hearth, rocking herself in a little chair that had been her mother’s when a child. Her hat was hung against the wall, and she seemed perfectly at home, laughing and chattering, in the best spirits imaginable, to Hareton now a great, strong lad of eighteen who stared at her with considerable curiosity and astonishment: comprehending precious little of the fluent succession of remarks and questions which her tongue never ceased pouring forth.
我走进去，看到我那只流浪的羔羊坐在炉边，在一把她母亲小时候的小椅子上摇晃着。她的帽子挂在墙上，她看起来非常自在，笑着，喋喋不休，心情愉快，在哈里顿看来，现在他已经是一个十八岁的伟大而强壮的小伙子了，他带着相当大的好奇和惊讶盯着她：理解很少的宝贵知识。她的舌头不停地吐出一连串流利的言论和问题。

‘Very well, Miss!’ I exclaimed, concealing my joy under an angry countenance. ‘This is your last ride, till papa comes back. I’ll not trust you over the threshold again, you naughty, naughty girl!’
“很好，小姐！”我大声说道，愤怒的表情下隐藏着我的喜悦。 “这是你最后一次骑行，直到爸爸回来。我不会再相信你跨过门槛了，你这个顽皮、顽皮的女孩！

‘Aha, Ellen!’ she cried, gaily, jumping up and running to my side. ‘I shall have a pretty story to tell to-night; and so you’ve found me out. Have you ever been here in your life before?’
“啊哈，艾伦！”她高兴地喊道，跳起来跑到我身边。 “今晚我将有一个美丽的故事要讲；所以你已经找到我了。你以前来过这里吗？

‘Put that hat on, and home at once,’ said I. ‘I’m dreadfully grieved at you, Miss Cathy: you’ve done extremely wrong! It’s no use pouting and crying: that won’t repay the trouble I’ve had, scouring the country after you. To think how Mr. Linton charged me to keep you in; and you stealing off so! It shows you are a cunning little fox, and nobody will put faith in you any more.’
“戴上帽子，立刻回家，”我说，“凯茜小姐，我对你感到非常难过：你做得非常错误！”噘嘴哭泣是没有用的：那无法补偿我在全国范围内寻找你所经历的麻烦。想想林惇先生是如何要求我把你留在家里的；你就这么偷走吧！这说明你是一只狡猾的小狐狸，没有人会再相信你了。”

‘What have I done?’ sobbed she, instantly checked. ‘Papa charged me nothing: he’ll not scold me, Ellen he’s never cross, like you!’
“我做了什么？”她抽泣着，立即检查了一下。 “爸爸没有责备我什么：他不会责骂我，艾伦，他从来不生气，就像你一样！”

‘Come, come!’ I repeated. ‘I’ll tie the riband. Now, let us have no petulance. Oh, for shame! You thirteen years old, and such a baby!’
“来吧，来吧！”我重复道。 “我来系丝带。”现在，我们不要脾气暴躁。噢，真丢脸！你都十三岁了，还是个孩子啊！”

This exclamation was caused by her pushing the hat from her head, and retreating to the chimney out of my reach.
这一声惊呼是因为她把帽子从头上推下来，退到我够不到的烟囱里。

‘Nay,’ said the servant, ‘don’t be hard on the bonny lass, Mrs. Dean. We made her stop: she’d fain have ridden forwards, afeard you should be uneasy. Hareton offered to go with her, and I thought he should: it’s a wild road over the hills.’
“不，”仆人说，“别对这个漂亮姑娘太严厉，迪恩太太。我们让她停下来：她很想向前骑，担心你会感到不安。哈里顿主动提出要和她一起去，我想他应该这么做：这是一条翻山越岭的荒路。

Hareton, during the discussion, stood with his hands in his pockets, too awkward to speak; though he looked as if he did not relish my intrusion.
哈里顿在讨论过程中双手插在口袋里站着，尴尬得说不出话来。尽管他看上去似乎并不喜欢我的闯入。

‘How long am I to wait?’ I continued, disregarding the woman’s interference. ‘It will be dark in ten minutes. Where is the pony, Miss Cathy? And where is Phoenix? I shall leave you, unless you be quick; so please yourself.’
“我要等多久？”我不顾女人的干涉继续说道。 ‘十分钟后天就黑了。小马在哪儿，凯茜小姐？那么凤凰城在哪里呢？我会离开你，除非你快点；所以请你自己高兴。

‘The pony is in the yard,’ she replied, ‘and Phoenix is shut in there. He’s bitten and so is Charlie. I was going to tell you all about it; but you are in a bad temper, and don’t deserve to hear.’
“小马在院子里，”她回答道，“菲尼克斯被关在那里。”他被咬了，查理也被咬了。我本来想把这一切都告诉你的；但你脾气不好，不配听。

I picked up her hat, and approached to reinstate it; but perceiving that the people of the house took her part, she commenced capering round the room; and on my giving chase, ran like a mouse over and under and behind the furniture, rendering it ridiculous for me to pursue. Hareton and the woman laughed, and she joined them, and waxed more impertinent still; till I cried, in great irritation, ‘Well, Miss Cathy, if you were aware whose house this is you’d be glad enough to get out.’
我拿起她的帽子，走过去把它放回去。但当她意识到家里的人都支持她时，她开始在房间里蹦蹦跳跳。当我追赶时，它像老鼠一样在家具的上面、下面和后面跑来跑去，使我的追赶变得可笑。哈里顿和那个女人笑了起来，她也跟着他们，变得更加无礼。直到我非常恼怒地喊道：“好吧，凯茜小姐，如果你知道这是谁的房子，你会很高兴离开的。”

‘It’s YOUR father’s, isn’t it?’ said she, turning to Hareton.
“这是你父亲的，不是吗？”她转向哈里顿说道。

‘Nay,’ he replied, looking down, and blushing bashfully.
“不，”他回答道，低下头，害羞地脸红了。

He could not stand a steady gaze from her eyes, though they were just his own.
他无法忍受她的目光一直注视着他，尽管那只是他自己的眼睛。

‘Whose then your master’s?’ she asked.
“那你主人是谁的？”她问道。

He coloured deeper, with a different feeling, muttered an oath, and turned away.
他的脸色更深了，带着一种不同的感觉，低声咒骂了一声，然后转身离开。

‘Who is his master?’ continued the tiresome girl, appealing to me. ‘He talked about ‘our house,’ and ‘our folk.’ I thought he had been the owner’s son. And he never said Miss: he should have done, shouldn’t he, if he’s a servant?’
“他的主人是谁？”那个令人厌烦的女孩继续向我问道。 “他谈到‘我们的房子’和‘我们的人民’。我以为他是房主的儿子。他从来没有说过“小姐”：如果他是仆人，他就应该这样做，不是吗？

Hareton grew black as a thunder-cloud at this childish speech. I silently shook my questioner, and at last succeeded in equipping her for departure.
听到这幼稚的讲话，哈里顿脸色黑得像雷雨云。我默默地摇晃了提问者，最后成功地让她准备出发。

‘Now, get my horse,’ she said, addressing her unknown kinsman as she would one of the stable-boys at the Grange. ‘And you may come with me. I want to see where the goblin-hunter rises in the marsh, and to hear about the FAIRISHES, as you call them: but make haste! What’s the matter? Get my horse, I say.’
“现在，把我的马牵来吧，”她对着她不知名的亲戚说道，就像她对田庄里的一个马童一样。 ‘你可以跟我一起去。我想看看妖精猎人在沼泽地里升起的地方，想听听你们所说的仙女的故事：但是要快点！怎么了？我说，把我的马牵来。

‘I’ll see thee damned before I be THY servant!’ growled the lad.
“在我成为你的仆人之前，我会看到你该死！”小伙子咆哮道。

‘You’ll see me WHAT!’ asked Catherine in surprise.
“你会看到我什么！”凯瑟琳惊讶地问道。

‘Damned thou saucy witch!’ he replied.
“该死的，你这个顽皮的女巫！”他回答道。

‘There, Miss Cathy! you see you have got into pretty company,’ I interposed. ‘Nice words to be used to a young lady! Pray don’t begin to dispute with him. Come, let us seek for Minny ourselves, and begone.’
“好啦，凯茜小姐！ “你瞧，你已经结交了不少朋友。”我插话道。 ‘对一位年轻女士来说这句话真是太好了！祈祷不要开始与他争论。来吧，让我们亲自去找明妮，然后就走吧。”

‘But, Ellen,’ cried she, staring fixed in astonishment, ‘how dare he speak so to me? Mustn’t he be made to do as I ask him? You wicked creature, I shall tell papa what you said. Now, then!’
“但是，艾伦，”她惊讶地瞪着眼睛，喊道，“他怎么敢对我这么说话？难道不应该让他按照我的要求去做吗？你这个邪恶的生物，我要把你说的话告诉爸爸。接着！'

Hareton did not appear to feel this threat; so the tears sprang into her eyes with indignation. ‘You bring the pony,’ she exclaimed, turning to the woman, ‘and let my dog free this moment!’
哈里顿似乎没有感受到这种威胁。于是，她的眼里充满了愤慨，泪水夺眶而出。 “你把小马带来了，”她转向那个女人喊道，“现在就让我的狗自由吧！”

‘Softly, Miss,’ answered she addressed: ‘you’ll lose nothing by being civil. Though Mr. Hareton, there, be not the master’s son, he’s your cousin: and I was never hired to serve you.’
“轻点，小姐，”她回答道，“保持礼貌不会给你带来什么损失。”虽然哈里顿先生，但他不是主人的儿子，他是你的表弟：我从来没有被雇用来为你服务。

‘HE my cousin!’ cried Cathy, with a scornful laugh.
“他是我的表弟！”凯茜轻蔑地笑着喊道。

‘Yes, indeed,’ responded her reprover.
“是的，确实如此，”责备她的人回答道。

‘Oh, Ellen! don’t let them say such things,’ she pursued in great trouble. ‘Papa is gone to fetch my cousin from London: my cousin is a gentleman’s son. That my ‘ she stopped, and wept outright; upset at the bare notion of relationship with such a clown.
哦，艾伦！ “别让他们说这样的话。”她苦苦追问。 “爸爸去伦敦接我的表弟了：我的表弟是一位绅士的儿子。我的‘她停了下来，放声大哭；对与这样一个小丑的关系的赤裸裸的想法感到不安。

‘Hush, hush!’ I whispered; ‘people can have many cousins and of all sorts, Miss Cathy, without being any the worse for it; only they needn’t keep their company, if they be disagreeable and bad.’
“嘘，嘘！”我低声说道。 “凯茜小姐，人们可以有很多各种各样的表兄弟姐妹，但不会因此而变得更糟；只是如果他们表现得令人不快或者很坏的话，他们就不需要陪着他们了。

‘He’s not he’s not my cousin, Ellen!’ she went on, gathering fresh grief from reflection, and flinging herself into my arms for refuge from the idea.
“他不是，他不是我的表弟，艾伦！”她继续说道，从反思中积聚起新的悲伤，然后扑进我的怀里，以避免这个想法。

I was much vexed at her and the servant for their mutual revelations; having no doubt of Linton’s approaching arrival, communicated by the former, being reported to Mr. Heathcliff; and feeling as confident that Catherine’s first thought on her father’s return would be to seek an explanation of the latter’s assertion concerning her rude-bred kindred. Hareton, recovering from his disgust at being taken for a servant, seemed moved by her distress; and, having fetched the pony round to the door, he took, to propitiate her, a fine crooked-legged terrier whelp from the kennel, and putting it into her hand, bid her whist! for he meant nought. Pausing in her lamentations, she surveyed him with a glance of awe and horror, then burst forth anew.
我对她和仆人的相互揭露感到非常恼火。毫不怀疑林惇即将到来，由前者传达给希刺克厉夫先生；并且确信凯瑟琳在父亲回来后的第一个想法将是寻求对后者有关她粗鲁血统的说法的解释。哈里顿从被当作仆人的厌恶中恢复过来，似乎被她的痛苦所感动。他把小马牵到门口，为了安抚她，他从狗舍里拿出一只漂亮的弯腿小猎犬，把它放在她手里，让她打惠斯特！因为他毫无恶意。她暂停了悲痛，用敬畏和恐惧的目光打量着他，然后又爆发了。

I could scarcely refrain from smiling at this antipathy to the poor fellow; who was a well-made, athletic youth, good-looking in features, and stout and healthy, but attired in garments befitting his daily occupations of working on the farm and lounging among the moors after rabbits and game. Still, I thought I could detect in his physiognomy a mind owning better qualities than his father ever possessed. Good things lost amid a wilderness of weeds, to be sure, whose rankness far over-topped their neglected growth; yet, notwithstanding, evidence of a wealthy soil, that might yield luxuriant crops under other and favourable circumstances. Mr. Heathcliff, I believe, had not treated him physically ill; thanks to his fearless nature, which offered no temptation to that course of oppression: he had none of the timid susceptibility that would have given zest to ill-treatment, in Heathcliff s judgment. He appeared to have bent his malevolence on making him a brute: he was never taught to read or write; never rebuked for any bad habit which did not annoy his keeper; never led a single step towards virtue, or guarded by a single precept against vice. And from what I heard, Joseph contributed much to his deterioration, by a narrowminded partiality which prompted him to flatter and pet him, as a boy, because he was the head of the old family. And as he had been in the habit of accusing Catherine Earnshaw and Heathcliff, when children, of putting the master past his patience, and compelling him to seek solace in drink by what he termed their ‘offald ways,’ so at present he laid the whole burden of Hareton’s faults on the shoulders of the usurper of his property. If the lad swore, he wouldn’t correct him: nor however culpably he behaved. It gave Joseph satisfaction, apparently, to watch him go the worst lengths: he allowed that the lad was ruined: that his soul was abandoned to perdition; but then he reflected that Heathcliff must answer for it. Hareton’s blood would be required at his hands; and there lay immense consolation in that thought. Joseph had instilled into him a pride of name, and of his lineage; he would, had he dared, have fostered hate between him and the present owner of the Heights: but his dread of that owner amounted to superstition; and he confined his feelings regarding him to muttered innuendoes and private comminations. I don’t pretend to be intimately acquainted with the mode of living customary in those days at Wuthering Heights: I only speak from hearsay; for I saw little. The villagers affirmed Mr. Heathcliff was NEAR, and a cruel hard landlord to his tenants; but the house, inside, had regained its ancient aspect of comfort under female management, and the scenes of riot common in Hindley’s time were not now enacted within its walls. The master was too gloomy to seek companionship with any people, good or bad; and he is yet.
看到这种对这个可怜人的反感，我忍不住笑了。他是一个身材匀称、运动健壮的年轻人，相貌英俊，粗壮而健康，但穿着的衣服适合他在农场工作和在兔子和游戏后在荒原上闲逛的日常职业。尽管如此，我认为我可以从他的相貌中发现他的思想比他父亲所拥有的更好。可以肯定的是，好东西在杂草荒野中消失了，它们的腐烂程度远远超过了它们被忽视的生长。然而，尽管如此，有证据表明，在其他有利的条件下，肥沃的土壤可能会产生茂盛的农作物。我相信希刺克厉夫先生并没有对他造成身体上的疾病；这要归功于他无所畏惧的天性，他不会受到那种压迫的诱惑：根据希刺克厉夫的判断，他没有胆怯的易感性，而这种易感性会导致虐待的热情。他的恶意似乎使他变成了一个畜生：他从来没有被教过读书或写字；他从来没有被教过。从来没有因为任何不惹恼他的饲养员的坏习惯而责备他；从来没有向美德迈出一步，也没有受到一条反对罪恶的戒律的保护。据我所知，约瑟夫对他的恶化负有很大责任，因为他心胸狭窄，偏袒他，这促使他在他还是个孩子的时候就奉承和宠爱他，因为他是这个古老家族的一家之主。当他还是孩子的时候，他就习惯性地指责凯瑟琳·恩萧和希刺克厉夫让主人失去了耐心，并强迫他通过他所谓的“不道德的方式”去喝酒寻求安慰，所以现在他把哈里顿的全部过失都落在了篡夺他财产的人的肩上。如果这个小伙子发誓，他不会纠正他：也不会纠正他的行为。 显然，约瑟夫看到他做出最坏的努力，感到很满意：他承认这个小伙子被毁了：他的灵魂被遗弃在毁灭中；但随后他想到希刺克厉夫必须对此负责。哈里顿的双手需要流血。这个想法带来了巨大的安慰。约瑟夫给他灌输了对名字和血统的自豪感。如果他敢的话，他会在他和高地现任主人之间培养仇恨：但他对那位主人的恐惧等于迷信；他对他的感情仅限于低声暗示和私下交流。我并不假装很熟悉当时呼啸山庄的生活习惯：我只是道听途说；因为我看到的很少。村民们肯定希刺克厉夫先生是个近亲，对他的房客来说是一个残酷、严厉的房东。但这座房子的内部，在女性的管理下，已经恢复了古老的舒适感，辛德雷时代常见的骚乱场面现在也没有在围墙内上演。主人性格阴郁，不愿与任何人交往，无论是好人还是坏人。他现在还没有。

This, however, is not making progress with my story. Miss Cathy rejected the peace-offering of the terrier, and demanded her own dogs, Charlie and Phoenix. They came limping and hanging their heads; and we set out for home, sadly out of sorts, every one of us. I could not wring from my little lady how she had spent the day; except that, as I supposed, the goal of her pilgrimage was Penistone Crags; and she arrived without adventure to the gate of the farm-house, when Hareton happened to issue forth, attended by some canine followers, who attacked her train. They had a smart battle, before their owners could separate them: that formed an introduction. Catherine told Hareton who she was, and where she was going; and asked him to show her the way: finally, beguiling him to accompany her. He opened the mysteries of the Fairy Cave, and twenty other queer places. But, being in disgrace, I was not favoured with a description of the interesting objects she saw. I could gather, however, that her guide had been a favourite till she hurt his feelings by addressing him as a servant; and Heathcliff’s housekeeper hurt hers by calling him her cousin. Then the language he had held to her rankled in her heart; she who was always ‘love,’ and ‘darling,’ and ‘queen,’ and ‘angel,’ with everybody at the Grange, to be insulted so shockingly by a stranger! She did not comprehend it; and hard work I had to obtain a promise that she would not lay the grievance before her father. I explained how he objected to the whole household at the Heights, and how sorry he would be to find she had been there; but I insisted most on the fact, that if she revealed my negligence of his orders, he would perhaps be so angry that I should have to leave; and Cathy couldn’t bear that prospect: she pledged her word, and kept it for my sake. After all, she was a sweet little girl.
然而，这并没有让我的故事取得进展。凯茜小姐拒绝了小猎犬的和平献祭，并要求拥有自己的狗查理和菲尼克斯。他们一瘸一拐地低着头走过来。我们就出发回家了，可悲的是，我们每个人都心情不好。我无法从我的小女士那里得知她这一天是怎么度过的。不过，正如我所猜测的，她朝圣的目标是佩尼斯通峭壁。她毫不费力地到达了农舍门口，这时哈里顿碰巧在一些狗追随者的陪伴下出发，袭击了她的火车。在它们的主人将它们分开之前，它们进行了一场聪明的战斗：这形成了一个介绍。凯瑟琳告诉哈里顿她是谁，以及她要去哪里。并请他给她带路：最后，骗他陪她。他揭开了仙洞和其他二十个奇怪地方的神秘面纱。但是，由于感到羞耻，我不喜欢描述她所看到的有趣物体。然而，我可以推测，她的向导一直很受欢迎，直到她称他为仆人，从而伤害了他的感情。希刺克厉夫的管家称他为表弟，这伤害了她的管家。然后他对她说的话让她心里很不舒服。她一直是田庄里每个人的“爱人”、“亲爱的”、“女王”和“天使”，却被一个陌生人如此令人震惊地侮辱！她不明白。我努力工作，才得到她不会向父亲诉苦的承诺。 我解释了他如何反对高地的整个家庭，以及如果他发现她在那里，他会多么遗憾；但我最坚持的事实是，如果她揭露我对他的命令的疏忽，他也许会非常生气，以致我不得不离开；凯茜无法忍受这种前景：她信守诺言，为了我而遵守诺言。毕竟，她是一个可爱的小女孩。

Chapter XIX
第十九章

A LETTER, edged with black, announced the day of my master’s return, Isabella was dead; and he wrote to bid me get mourning for his daughter, and arrange a room, and other accommodations, for his youthful nephew. Catherine ran wild with joy at the idea of welcoming her father back; and indulged most sanguine anticipations of the innumerable excellencies of her ‘real’ cousin. The evening of their expected arrival came. Since early morning she had been busy ordering her own small affairs; and now attired in her new black frock poor thing! her aunt’s death impressed her with no definite sorrow she obliged me, by constant worrying, to walk with her down through the grounds to meet them.
一封黑边的信宣布了我主人回来的日子，伊莎贝拉死了；他写信要我为他的女儿哀悼，并为他年轻的侄子安排一个房间和其他住宿。凯瑟琳一想到要欢迎父亲回来，高兴极了。并且对她“真正的”表弟的无数优点抱有最乐观的期待。他们预计抵达的那天晚上到了。从一大早起，她就忙着处理自己的小事。现在又穿上了她的新黑裙子，可怜的东西！她姨妈的去世并没有给她留下明显的悲伤，她迫使我不断地担心，陪着她穿过庭院去见他们。

‘Linton is just six months younger than I am,’ she chattered, as we strolled leisurely over the swells and hollows of mossy turf, under shadow of the trees. ‘How delightful it will be to have him for a playfellow! Aunt Isabella sent papa a beautiful lock of his hair; it was lighter than mine more flaxen, and quite as fine. I have it carefully preserved in a little glass box; and I’ve often thought what a pleasure it would be to see its owner. Oh! I am happy and papa, dear, dear papa! Come, Ellen, let us run! come, run.’
“林惇只比我小六个月，”她喋喋不休地说，我们在树荫下悠闲地漫步在长满青苔的草皮上。 “能有他做玩伴，该是多么令人高兴啊！”伊莎贝拉姨妈送给爸爸一缕漂亮的头发；它比我的更轻，更呈淡黄色，而且也同样精致。我把它小心翼翼地保存在一个小玻璃盒子里；我常常想，如果能见到它的主人该多高兴啊。哦！我很高兴，爸爸，亲爱的，亲爱的爸爸！来吧，艾伦，让我们奔跑吧！来吧，跑吧。”

She ran, and returned and ran again, many times before my sober footsteps reached the gate, and then she seated herself on the grassy bank beside the path, and tried to wait patiently; but that was impossible: she couldn’t be still a minute.
她跑啊跑，跑回来，跑了好多次，我清醒的脚步才到了门口，然后她坐在路边的草地上，试图耐心地等待。但这是不可能的：她一刻也不能安静。

‘How long they are!’ she exclaimed. ‘Ah, I see, some dust on the road they are coming! No! When will they be here? May we not go a little way half a mile, Ellen, only just half a mile? Do say Yes: to that clump of birches at the turn!’
“它们有多长！”她惊呼道。 ‘啊，我明白了，他们来的路上有些灰尘！不！他们什么时候会来？我们可以不要走半英里吗，艾伦，只走半英里吗？请对转弯处的那丛桦树说“是”！

I refused staunchly. At length her suspense was ended: the travelling carriage rolled in sight. Miss Cathy shrieked and stretched out her arms as soon as she caught her father’s face looking from the window. He descended, nearly as eager as herself; and a considerable interval elapsed ere they had a thought to spare for any but themselves. While they exchanged caresses I took a peep in to see after Linton. He was asleep in a corner, wrapped in a warm, fur-lined cloak, as if it had been winter. A pale, delicate, effeminate boy, who might have been taken for my master’s younger brother, so strong was the resemblance: but there was a sickly peevishness in his aspect that Edgar Linton never had. The latter saw me looking; and having shaken hands, advised me to close the door, and leave him undisturbed; for the journey had fatigued him. Cathy would fain have taken one glance, but her father told her to come, and they walked together up the park, while I hastened before to prepare the servants.
我坚决拒绝。终于，她的悬念结束了：行驶的马车驶入了视线。凯茜小姐一看到窗外望着父亲的脸，就尖叫起来，伸出双臂。他下来了，几乎和她一样急切。过了相当长的一段时间，他们才想到要为自己以外的人腾出时间。当他们互相爱抚时，我偷偷看了一眼，看看林惇的情况。他裹着一件温暖的毛皮斗篷，在角落里睡着了，就像是冬天一样。一个面色苍白、娇弱、柔弱的男孩，很可能被误认为是我主人的弟弟，两者的相似度如此之高，但他的外表却有一种埃德加·林惇从未有过的病态的暴躁情绪。后者看到我在看；握手后，建议我关上门，不要打扰他。因为旅途使他疲惫不堪。凯茜很想看一眼，但她父亲叫她来，他们一起走上公园，而我则赶紧去准备仆人。

‘Now, darling,’ said Mr. Linton, addressing his daughter, as they halted at the bottom of the front steps: ‘your cousin is not so strong or so merry as you are, and he has lost his mother, remember, a very short time since; therefore, don’t expect him to play and run about with you directly. And don’t harass him much by talking: let him be quiet this evening, at least, will you?’
“现在，亲爱的，”当他们停在前面的台阶底部时，林顿先生对他的女儿说道：“你的表弟不像你那么坚强或那么快乐，而且他失去了他的母亲，记住，此后很短的时间；所以，不要指望他会直接和你一起玩耍、奔跑。不要用说话来骚扰他：至少让他今晚保持安静，好吗？

‘Yes, yes, papa,’ answered Catherine: ‘but I do want to see him; and he hasn’t once looked out.’
“是的，是的，爸爸，”凯瑟琳回答道，“但我确实想见他；他一次也没有向外看。

The carriage stopped; and the sleeper being roused, was lifted to the ground by his uncle.
马车停了下来；熟睡的人被吵醒了，被他叔叔举到了地上。

‘This is your cousin Cathy, Linton,’ he said, putting their little hands together. ‘She’s fond of you already; and mind you don’t grieve her by crying to-night. Try to be cheerful now; the travelling is at an end, and you have nothing to do but rest and amuse yourself as you please.’
“这是你的表弟凯茜，林顿，”他说，把他们的小手放在一起。 ‘她已经喜欢你了；请记住，今晚你不要哭泣，让她伤心。现在试着保持快乐；旅行结束了，你除了休息、尽情娱乐之外，无事可做。

‘Let me go to bed, then,’ answered the boy, shrinking from Catherine’s salute; and he put his fingers to remove incipient tears.
“那么，让我去睡觉吧，”男孩回答道，在凯瑟琳的行礼面前退缩了。他用手指擦去即将流下的泪水。

‘Come, come, there’s a good child,’ I whispered, leading him in. ‘You’ll make her weep too see how sorry she is for you!’
“来吧，来吧，这是一个好孩子，”我低声说道，领着他进来。“你也会让她哭的，看看她有多对不起你！”

I do not know whether it was sorrow for him, but his cousin put on as sad a countenance as himself, and returned to her father. All three entered, and mounted to the library, where tea was laid ready. I proceeded to remove Linton’s cap and mantle, and placed him on a chair by the table; but he was no sooner seated than he began to cry afresh. My master inquired what was the matter.
不知道是不是为他感到悲伤，他的表弟也做出了和他一样悲伤的表情，回到了她父亲身边。三人走进去，登上图书馆，那里已经准备好了茶水。我开始脱下林惇的帽子和斗篷，把他放在桌边的椅子上。但他刚坐下，就又哭了起来。我的主人询问发生了什么事。

‘I can’t sit on a chair,’ sobbed the boy.
“我不能坐在椅子上，”男孩抽泣着。

‘Go to the sofa, then, and Ellen shall bring you some tea,’ answered his uncle patiently.
“那么到沙发上去吧，艾伦给你端茶来。”叔叔耐心地回答。

He had been greatly tried, during the journey, I felt convinced, by his fretful ailing charge. Linton slowly trailed himself off, and lay down. Cathy carried a footstool and her cup to his side. At first she sat silent; but that could not last: she had resolved to make a pet of her little cousin, as she would have him to be; and she commenced stroking his curls, and kissing his cheek, and offering him tea in her saucer, like a baby. This pleased him, for he was not much better: he dried his eyes, and lightened into a faint smile.
我确信，在旅途中，他因病重而焦躁不安，经受了极大的考验。林惇慢慢地走开了，躺了下来。凯茜把脚凳和杯子放在他身边。起初她一言不发地坐着。但这不会持续太久：她决定养她的小表弟当宠物，就像她希望的那样。她开始抚摸他的卷发，亲吻他的脸颊，并像婴儿一样用碟子给他端茶。这让他很高兴，因为他的情况并没有好多少：他擦干眼睛，露出淡淡的微笑。

‘Oh, he’ll do very well,’ said the master to me, after watching them a minute. ‘Very well, if we can keep him, Ellen. The company of a child of his own age will instil new spirit into him soon, and by wishing for strength he’ll gain it.’
“哦，他会做得很好，”大师看了一会儿后对我说。 “很好，如果我们能留住他的话，艾伦。与他同龄的孩子的陪伴很快就会给他注入新的精神，通过渴望力量，他就会获得力量。

‘Ay, if we can keep him!’ I mused to myself; and sore misgivings came over me that there was slight hope of that. And then, I thought, how ever will that weakling live at Wuthering Heights? Between his father and Hareton, what playmates and instructors they’ll be. Our doubts were presently decided even earlier than I expected. I had just taken the children up-stairs, after tea was finished, and seen Linton asleep he would not suffer me to leave him till that was the case I had come down, and was standing by the table in the hall, lighting a bedroom candle for Mr. Edgar, when a maid stepped out of the kitchen and informed me that Mr. Heathcliff’s servant Joseph was at the door, and wished to speak with the master.
“唉，如果我们能留住他就好了！”我心里暗想。我心中充满了强烈的疑虑，认为这种希望渺茫。然后，我想，那个弱者将如何生活在呼啸山庄？他的父亲和哈里顿将成为多么好的玩伴和导师。我们的疑虑现在比我预想的更早得到了解决。喝完茶后，我刚刚带着孩子们上楼，看到林惇睡着了，他不肯让我离开他，直到我下楼，站在大厅的桌子旁，照亮一间卧室。埃德加先生的蜡烛，这时一名女仆从厨房走出来，告诉我希刺克厉夫先生的仆人约瑟夫在门口，想和主人说话。

‘I shall ask him what he wants first,’ I said, in considerable trepidation. ‘A very unlikely hour to be troubling people, and the instant they have returned from a long journey. I don’t think the master can see him.’
“我要先问他想要什么，”我相当惶恐地说。 “这是一个极不可能让人们感到不安的时刻，而且是他们长途旅行回来的那一刻。我认为主人看不到他。

Joseph had advanced through the kitchen as I uttered these words, and now presented himself in the hall. He was donned in his Sunday garments, with his most sanctimonious and sourest face, and, holding his hat in one hand, and his stick in the other, he proceeded to clean his shoes on the mat.
当我说出这些话时，约瑟夫已经穿过厨房，现在出现在大厅里。他穿上了周日的服装，脸上带着最道貌岸然、最酸溜溜的表情，一手拿着帽子，另一只手拿着手杖，开始在垫子上擦鞋子。

‘Good-evening, Joseph,’ I said, coldly. ‘What business brings you here to-night?’
“晚上好，约瑟夫，”我冷冷地说。 “今晚你来这里有什么事吗？”

‘It’s Maister Linton I mun spake to,’ he answered, waving me disdainfully aside.
“我要跟林惇少爷说话，”他回答道，轻蔑地将我挥手让开。

‘Mr. Linton is going to bed; unless you have something particular to say, I’m sure he won’t hear it now,’ I continued. ‘You had better sit down in there, and entrust your message to me.’
'先生。林惇要去睡觉了；除非你有什么特别要说的，我相信他现在不会听到，”我继续说道。 “你最好坐在那里，把你的消息交给我。”

‘Which is his rahm?’ pursued the fellow, surveying the range of closed doors.
“他的拉姆是哪一个？”那家伙一边追问，一边环视着紧闭的门的范围。

I perceived he was bent on refusing my mediation, so very reluctantly I went up to the library, and announced the unseasonable visitor, advising that he should be dismissed till next day. Mr. Linton had no time to empower me to do so, for Joseph mounted close at my heels, and, pushing into the apartment, planted himself at the far side of the table, with his two fists clapped on the head of his stick, and began in an elevated tone, as if anticipating opposition -
我察觉到他执意拒绝我的调解，所以我很不情愿地去了图书馆，宣布这位不合时宜的访客，并建议他明天再走。林惇先生没有时间授权我这样做，因为约瑟夫紧随我的脚后跟，推进公寓，站在桌子的​​另一边，两只拳头拍在他的棍子头上，然后以一种高调的语气开始，仿佛预料到会遭到反对——

‘Hathecliff has sent me for his lad, and I munn’t goa back ‘bout him.’
“哈瑟克利夫派我去找他的小伙子，我不想回去。”

Edgar Linton was silent a minute; an expression of exceeding sorrow overcast his features: he would have pitied the child on his own account; but, recalling Isabella’s hopes and fears, and anxious wishes for her son, and her commendations of him to his care, he grieved bitterly at the prospect of yielding him up, and searched in his heart how it might be avoided. No plan offered itself: the very exhibition of any desire to keep him would have rendered the claimant more peremptory: there was nothing left but to resign him. However, he was not going to rouse him from his sleep.
埃德加·林惇沉默了一会儿。他的脸上流露出极度悲伤的表情：他会为自己的缘故而可怜这个孩子。但是，回想起伊莎贝拉的希望和恐惧，以及对她儿子的焦急愿望，以及她对他的照顾，他对放弃他的前景感到痛苦，并在心里寻找如何避免这种情况。没有提出任何计划：只要表现出任何保留他的愿望，就会使原告更加专横：除了辞职之外别无他法。不过，他并不打算把他从睡梦中叫醒。

‘Tell Mr. Heathcliff,’ he answered calmly, ‘that his son shall come to Wuthering Heights to-morrow. He is in bed, and too tired to go the distance now. You may also tell him that the mother of Linton desired him to remain under my guardianship; and, at present, his health is very precarious.’
“告诉希刺克厉夫先生，”他平静地回答，“他的儿子明天就会来呼啸山庄。”他已经躺在床上了，现在太累了，不想再走那么远了。你也可以告诉他，林顿的母亲希望他继续由我监护；目前，他的健康状况非常不稳定。

‘Noa!’ said Joseph, giving a thud with his prop on the floor, and assuming an authoritative air. ‘Noa! that means naught. Hathecliff maks noa ‘count o’ t’ mother, nor ye norther; but he’ll heu’ his lad; und I mun tak’ him soa now ye knaw!’
“诺亚！”约瑟夫说道，他的道具在地板上发出一声重击，摆出一副权威的样子。 ‘诺亚！这意味着什么都没有。哈瑟克利夫让诺亚“计数”母亲，也不让北方人；但他会哄他的孩子；现在你知道了，我一定要把他带走！

‘You shall not to-night!’ answered Linton decisively. ‘Walk down stairs at once, and repeat to your master what I have said. Ellen, show him down. Go ‘
“今晚你不能！”林惇果断地回答。 “立刻走下楼梯，向你的主人重复我说的话。艾伦，让他下来。去 '

And, aiding the indignant elder with a lift by the arm, he rid the room of him and closed the door.
然后，他抓住愤怒的长者的手臂，将他从房间里赶了出来，并关上了门。

‘Varrah weell!’ shouted Joseph, as he slowly drew off. ‘To-morn, he’s come hisseln, and thrust HIM out, if ye darr!’
“瓦拉很好！”约瑟夫一边喊一边慢慢地离开。 “明天早上，他会亲自过来，把他赶出去，如果你们愿意的话！”

CHAPTER XX
第二十章

TO obviate the danger of this threat being fulfilled, Mr. Linton commissioned me to take the boy home early, on Catherine’s pony; and, said he ‘As we shall now have no influence over his destiny, good or bad, you must say nothing of where he is gone to my daughter: she cannot associate with him hereafter, and it is better for her to remain in ignorance of his proximity; lest she should be restless, and anxious to visit the Heights. Merely tell her his father sent for him suddenly, and he has been obliged to leave us.’
为了避免这种威胁成为现实的危险，林惇先生委托我早点骑着凯瑟琳的小马带这个男孩回家。他说道：“既然我们现在无法影响他的命运，无论好坏，你就不能向我女儿透露他去了哪里：她以后不能再与他交往了，她最好还是保持无知。”他的接近；以免她焦躁不安，急于前往高地。只要告诉她他父亲突然派人来找他，他就不得不离开我们了。

Linton was very reluctant to be roused from his bed at five o’clock, and astonished to be informed that he must prepare for further travelling; but I softened off the matter by stating that he was going to spend some time with his father, Mr. Heathcliff, who wished to see him so much, he did not like to defer the pleasure till he should recover from his late journey.
林惇非常不愿意在五点钟被从床上叫醒，并惊讶地得知他必须为进一步的旅行做准备。但我软化了这件事，说他要和他的父亲希刺克厉夫先生一起度过一段时间，他非常想见他，他不想把这种快乐推迟到他从迟到的旅程中恢复过来。

‘My father!’ he cried, in strange perplexity. ‘Mamma never told me I had a father. Where does he live? I’d rather stay with uncle.’
“我的父亲！”他带着一种奇怪的困惑叫道。 “妈妈从来没有告诉过我我有一个父亲。他住在哪里？我宁愿和叔叔呆在一起。

‘He lives a little distance from the Grange,’ I replied; ‘just beyond those hills: not so far, but you may walk over here when you get hearty. And you should be glad to go home, and to see him. You must try to love him, as you did your mother, and then he will love you.’
“他住的地方离田庄不远，”我回答道。 “就在那些山那边：不是很远，但是当你有兴致的时候，你可以走到这里。”你应该很高兴回家并见到他。你必须努力爱他，就像你爱你的母亲一样，然后他就会爱你。

‘But why have I not heard of him before?’ asked Linton. ‘Why didn’t mamma and he live together, as other people do?’
“但是为什么我以前没有听说过他呢？”林惇问道。 “为什么妈妈和他不像其他人那样住在一起？”

‘He had business to keep him in the north,’ I answered, ‘and your mother’s health required her to reside in the south.’
“他有事要让他留在北方，”我回答道，“而你母亲的健康状况要求她住在南方。”

‘And why didn’t mamma speak to me about him?’ persevered the child. ‘She often talked of uncle, and I learnt to love him long ago. How am I to love papa? I don’t know him.’
“妈妈为什么不跟我说起他呢？”孩子坚持问道。 ‘她经常说起叔叔，我很早就学会了爱他。我该如何爱爸爸？我不认识他。

‘Oh, all children love their parents,’ I said. ‘Your mother, perhaps, thought you would want to be with him if she mentioned him often to you. Let us make haste. An early ride on such a beautiful morning is much preferable to an hour’s more sleep.’
“哦，所有的孩子都爱他们的父母，”我说。 “你的母亲也许认为，如果她经常向你提起他，你就会想和他在一起。让我们抓紧时间吧。在如此美丽的早晨早起骑行比多睡一个小时要好得多。

‘Is SHE to go with us,’ he demanded, ‘the little girl I saw yesterday?’
“她要和我们一起去吗？”他问道，“我昨天看到的那个小女孩？”

‘Not now,’ replied I.
“现在不行，”我回答道。

‘Is uncle?’ he continued.
“是叔叔吗？”他继续说道。

‘No, I shall be your companion there,’ I said.
“不，我会在那里陪你，”我说。

Linton sank back on his pillow and fell into a brown study.
林顿靠在枕头上，陷入了棕色的书房里。

‘I won’t go without uncle,’ he cried at length: ‘I can’t tell where you mean to take me.’
“没有叔叔，我不会去，”他最后喊道，“我不知道你想带我去哪里。”

I attempted to persuade him of the naughtiness of showing reluctance to meet his father; still he obstinately resisted any progress towards dressing, and I had to call for my master’s assistance in coaxing him out of bed. The poor thing was finally got off, with several delusive assurances that his absence should be short: that Mr. Edgar and Cathy would visit him, and other promises, equally ill-founded, which I invented and reiterated at intervals throughout the way. The pure heather-scented air, the bright sunshine, and the gentle canter of Minny, relieved his despondency after a while. He began to put questions concerning his new home, and its inhabitants, with greater interest and liveliness.
我试图说服他，不愿意见他的父亲是很顽皮的行为。但他仍然顽固地拒绝穿衣服，我不得不请主人帮忙把他从床上哄起来。这个可怜的家伙终于下车了，他有几个虚幻的保证，说他的缺席时间应该很短：埃德加先生和凯茜会去看他，还有其他同样毫无根据的承诺，这些都是我在整个过程中发明并时不时重申的。纯净的石南花香的空气，明媚的阳光，米妮温柔的小跑，让他的郁闷暂时缓解了一些。他开始更加感兴趣和活跃地提出有关他的新家及其居民的问题。

‘Is Wuthering Heights as pleasant a place as Thrushcross Grange?’ he inquired, turning to take a last glance into the valley, whence a light mist mounted and formed a fleecy cloud on the skirts of the blue.
“呼啸山庄是一个像画眉田庄一样令人愉快的地方吗？”他问道，转身最后看了一眼山谷，薄雾从山谷中升起，在蓝色的边缘形成了一层蓬松的云彩。

‘It is not so buried in trees,’ I replied, ‘and it is not quite so large, but you can see the country beautifully all round; and the air is healthier for you fresher and drier. You will, perhaps, think the building old and dark at first; though it is a respectable house: the next best in the neighbourhood. And you will have such nice rambles on the moors. Hareton Earnshaw that is, Miss Cathy’s other cousin, and so yours in a manner will show you all the sweetest spots; and you can bring a book in fine weather, and make a green hollow your study; and, now and then, your uncle may join you in a walk: he does, frequently, walk out on the hills.’
“它没有那么深埋在树林里，”我回答道，“它也不是那么大，但你可以看到周围美丽的乡村；空气更清新、更干燥，对您更健康。乍一看，你可能会觉得这座建筑又旧又黑；尽管它是一座受人尊敬的房子：是附近最好的房子。您将在荒原上漫步。哈里顿·恩肖（Hareton Earnshaw），即凯茜小姐的另一个表弟，所以你的表弟会以某种方式向你展示所有最甜蜜的地方；天气好的时候，你可以带上一本书，把绿色的空心当成你的书房；有时，你的叔叔可能会和你一起散步：他经常在山上散步。

‘And what is my father like?’ he asked. ‘Is he as young and handsome as uncle?’
“我的父亲是什么样的人？”他问道。 “他像叔叔一样年轻帅气吗？”

‘He’s as young,’ said I; ‘but he has black hair and eyes, and looks sterner; and he is taller and bigger altogether. He’ll not seem to you so gentle and kind at first, perhaps, because it is not his way: still, mind you, be frank and cordial with him; and naturally he’ll be fonder of you than any uncle, for you are his own.’
我说：“他还那么年轻。” “但他有着黑色的头发和眼睛，看上去更加严肃；而且他总体上更高更大了。也许一开始他在你看来并不那么温和和友善，因为这不是他的方式：不过，请注意，对他要坦率和诚恳；因为这不是他的风格。他自然会比任何叔叔都更喜欢你，因为你是他自己的人。

‘Black hair and eyes!’ mused Linton. ‘I can’t fancy him. Then I am not like him, am I?’
“黑头发和黑眼睛！”林惇沉思道。 ‘我看不上他。那我就不像他了，不是吗？

‘Not much,’ I answered: not a morsel, I thought, surveying with regret the white complexion and slim frame of my companion, and his large languid eyes his mother’s eyes, save that, unless a morbid touchiness kindled them a moment, they had not a vestige of her sparkling spirit.
“不多，”我回答道，一点也没有，我心想，一边遗憾地打量着我同伴白皙的肤色和苗条的身躯，还有他那双无精打采的大眼睛，就像他母亲的眼睛一样，除此之外，除非有一种病态的敏感情绪瞬间点燃了它们，它们没有一丝她闪闪发光的精神的痕迹。

‘How strange that he should never come to see mamma and me!’ he murmured. ‘Has he ever seen me? If he has, I must have been a baby. I remember not a single thing about him!’
“真奇怪，他永远不会来看我和妈妈！”他低声说道。 ‘他见过我吗？如果他有的话，我一定是个婴儿。我对他一无所知！

‘Why, Master Linton,’ said I, ‘three hundred miles is a great distance; and ten years seem very different in length to a grown-up person compared with what they do to you. It is probable Mr. Heathcliff proposed going from summer to summer, but never found a convenient opportunity; and now it is too late. Don’t trouble him with questions on the subject: it will disturb him, for no good.’
“哎呀，林惇少爷，”我说，“三百英里是一段很长的距离；十年对于一个成年人来说和他们对你所做的事情相比似乎有很大的不同。希斯克利夫先生很可能提议从一个夏天到另一个夏天，但从未找到合适的机会；现在已经太晚了。不要用有关这个话题的问题来打扰他：这会打扰他，但没有好处。

The boy was fully occupied with his own cogitations for the remainder of the ride, till we halted before the farmhouse gardengate. I watched to catch his impressions in his countenance. He surveyed the carved front and low-browed lattices, the straggling gooseberry-bushes and crooked firs, with solemn intentness, and then shook his head: his private feelings entirely disapproved of the exterior of his new abode. But he had sense to postpone complaining: there might be compensation within. Before he dismounted, I went and opened the door. It was half-past six; the family had just finished breakfast: the servant was clearing and wiping down the table. Joseph stood by his master’s chair telling some tale concerning a lame horse; and Hareton was preparing for the hayfield.
在接下来的旅程中，男孩一直在思考，直到我们在农舍花园门前停了下来。我观察着他的表情，想捕捉到他的印象。他严肃地、专注地审视着雕花的正面和低眉格子、散乱的醋栗丛和弯曲的冷杉，然后摇了摇头：他个人的感觉完全不赞成他的新住所的外观。但他明智地推迟了抱怨：也许里面会有补偿。在他下马之前，我去开门。现在是六点半。一家人刚刚吃完早餐：仆人正在清理和擦拭桌子。约瑟夫站在他主人的椅子旁，讲述着关于一匹跛马的故事。哈里顿正在为干草场做准备。

‘Hallo, Nelly!’ said Mr. Heathcliff, when he saw me. ‘I feared I should have to come down and fetch my property myself. You’ve brought it, have you? Let us see what we can make of it.’
“你好，耐莉！”希刺克厉夫先生看到我时说道。 “我担心我必须亲自下来拿我的东西。你已经带来了，是吗？让我们看看我们能用它做什么。

He got up and strode to the door: Hareton and Joseph followed in gaping curiosity. Poor Linton ran a frightened eye over the faces of the three.
他站起来，大步走向门口：哈里顿和约瑟夫好奇地跟在后面。可怜的林惇用惊恐的目光扫过三人的脸。

‘Sure-ly,’ said Joseph after a grave inspection, ‘he’s swopped wi’ ye, Maister, an’ yon’s his lass!’
“当然，”约瑟夫认真地检查了一下后说道，“他已经和你交换了，迈斯特，你是他的女儿！”

Heathcliff, having stared his son into an ague of confusion, uttered a scornful laugh.
希刺克厉夫一脸困惑地看着儿子，轻蔑地笑了一声。

‘God! what a beauty! what a lovely, charming thing!’ he exclaimed. ‘Hav’n’t they reared it on snails and sour milk, Nelly? Oh, damn my soul! but that’s worse than I expected and the devil knows I was not sanguine!’
'上帝！真漂亮！多么可爱、迷人的东西啊！”他惊呼道。 “耐莉，他们不是用蜗牛和酸牛奶饲养它的吗？噢，该死的我的灵魂！但这比我预期的还要糟糕，鬼知道我并不乐观！”

I bid the trembling and bewildered child get down, and enter. He did not thoroughly comprehend the meaning of his father’s speech, or whether it were intended for him: indeed, he was not yet certain that the grim, sneering stranger was his father. But he clung to me with growing trepidation; and on Mr. Heathcliff’s taking a seat and bidding him ‘come hither’ he hid his face on my shoulder and wept.
我吩咐那个浑身发抖、困惑的孩子下去，进去。他并没有完全理解父亲这番话的含义，也不知道这话是否是为他而说的：事实上，他还不确定这个冷酷、冷笑的陌生人就是他的父亲。但他却越来越害怕地紧紧抓住我。当希刺克厉夫先生坐下并吩咐他“过来”时，他把脸埋在我的肩膀上哭泣。

‘Tut, tut!’ said Heathcliff, stretching out a hand and dragging him roughly between his knees, and then holding up his head by the chin. ‘None of that nonsense! We’re not going to hurt thee, Linton isn’t that thy name? Thou art thy mother’s child, entirely! Where is my share in thee, puling chicken?’
“嘘，嘘！”希刺克厉夫说着，伸出一只手，粗暴地把他拖到膝盖之间，然后捏住他的下巴，托起他的头。 ‘没有什么废话！我们不会伤害你，林惇，这不是你的名字吗？你完全是你母亲的孩子！我在你身上的份额在哪里，拉鸡？

He took off the boy’s cap and pushed back his thick flaxen curls, felt his slender arms and his small fingers; during which examination Linton ceased crying, and lifted his great blue eyes to inspect the inspector.
他摘下男孩的帽子，将浓密的亚麻色卷发向后推开，摸摸他纤细的手臂和小手指；在检查过程中，林惇停止了哭泣，抬起他那双蓝色的大眼睛打量着检查员。

‘Do you know me?’ asked Heathcliff, having satisfied himself that the limbs were all equally frail and feeble.
“你认识我吗？”希刺克厉夫问道，他确信自己的四肢都同样脆弱。

‘No,’ said Linton, with a gaze of vacant fear.
“不，”林惇说，眼神中充满了茫然的恐惧。

‘You’ve heard of me, I daresay?’
“我敢说你听说过我？”

‘No,’ he replied again.
“不，”他再次回答。

‘No! What a shame of your mother, never to waken your filial regard for me! You are my son, then, I’ll tell you; and your mother was a wicked slut to leave you in ignorance of the sort of father you possessed. Now, don’t wince, and colour up! Though it is something to see you have not white blood. Be a good lad; and I’ll do for you. Nelly, if you be tired you may sit down; if not, get home again. I guess you’ll report what you hear and see to the cipher at the Grange; and this thing won’t be settled while you linger about it.’
'不！真是可惜了你的母亲，始终没有唤起你对我的孝心！那么，我告诉你，你是我的儿子；你的母亲是个邪恶的荡妇，让你不知道你拥有什么样的父亲。现在，不要退缩，上色吧！虽然这是看你有没有白血统的事情。做一个好孩子；我会为你做的。耐莉，如果你累了，可以坐下来；如果没有，请再次回家。我想你会向田庄的密码报告你所听到和看到的情况；如果你再犹豫的话，这件事就不会解决。”

‘Well,’ replied I, ‘I hope you’ll be kind to the boy, Mr. Heathcliff, or you’ll not keep him long; and he’s all you have akin in the wide world, that you will ever know remember.’
“好吧，”我回答道，“希刺克厉夫先生，我希望你能善待这个男孩，否则你不会让他待太久的。”他是你在这个广阔的世界上所拥有的唯一的同类，你永远都知道，记住。

‘I’ll be very kind to him, you needn’t fear,’ he said, laughing. ‘Only nobody else must be kind to him: I’m jealous of monopolising his affection. And, to begin my kindness, Joseph, bring the lad some breakfast. Hareton, you infernal calf, begone to your work. Yes, Nell,’ he added, when they had departed, ‘my son is prospective owner of your place, and I should not wish him to die till I was certain of being his successor. Besides, he’s MINE, and I want the triumph of seeing MY descendant fairly lord of their estates; my child hiring their children to till their fathers’ lands for wages. That is the sole consideration which can make me endure the whelp: I despise him for himself, and hate him for the memories he revives! But that consideration is sufficient: he’s as safe with me, and shall be tended as carefully as your master tends his own. I have a room up-stairs, furnished for him in handsome style; I’ve engaged a tutor, also, to come three times a week, from twenty miles’ distance, to teach him what he pleases to learn. I’ve ordered Hareton to obey him: and in fact I’ve arranged everything with a view to preserve the superior and the gentleman in him, above his associates. I do regret, however, that he so little deserves the trouble: if I wished any blessing in the world, it was to find him a worthy object of pride; and I’m bitterly disappointed with the whey-faced, whining wretch!’
“我会对他很好，你不用害怕，”他笑着说。 “只有其他人不能善待他：我嫉妒独占他的感情。约瑟夫，为了开始我的善意，请给这小伙子带来一些早餐。哈里顿，你这头地狱般的小牛，开始干你的活吧。是的，内尔，”当他们离开时，他补充道，“我的儿子是你的未来的主人，在我确定成为他的继承人之前，我不希望他死。此外，他是我的，我希望看到我的后代成为他们庄园的主人；我的孩子雇佣他们的孩子耕种他们父亲的土地以获得工资。这是唯一能让我忍受这个小崽子的考虑：我鄙视他，因为他复活了记忆而恨他！但这种考虑就足够了：他和我在一起一样安全，并且会像你的主人照顾他自己的主人一样受到精心照顾。我在楼上有一个房间，为他布置得很漂亮。我还聘请了一位家庭教师，每周三次从二十英里之外过来，教他喜欢学的东西。我命令哈里顿服从他：事实上，我安排一切都是为了保持他的优越感和绅士风度，高于他的同事。然而，我确实感到遗憾的是，他不值得这么麻烦：如果我希望世界上有任何祝福，那就是为他找到一个值得骄傲的对象；我对这个面色苍白、爱发牢骚的可怜虫感到非常失望！

While he was speaking, Joseph returned bearing a basin of milkporridge, and placed it before Linton: who stirred round the homely mess with a look of aversion, and affirmed he could not eat it. I saw the old man-servant shared largely in his master’s scorn of the child; though he was compelled to retain the sentiment in his heart, because Heathcliff plainly meant his underlings to hold him in honour.
说话间，约瑟夫端着一盆牛奶粥回来，放在林惇面前。林惇一脸厌恶地搅动着这堆家常便饭，并断言他不能吃。我看到这位老仆人在很大程度上也和他的主人一样蔑视这个孩子。尽管他不得不将这种感情保留在心里，因为希刺克厉夫显然是想让他的下属们尊重他。

‘Cannot ate it?’ repeated he, peering in Linton’s face, and subduing his voice to a whisper, for fear of being overheard. ‘But Maister Hareton nivir ate naught else, when he wer a little ‘un; and what wer gooid enough for him’s gooid enough for ye, I’s rayther think!’
“不能吃吗？”他重复道，盯着林惇的脸，压低声音，生怕被人偷听。 “但是哈里顿尼维尔大师在他有点‘不’的时候，什么也没吃；”我想，我们对他来说足够好，对你们来说也足够好！

‘I SHA’N’T eat it!’ answered Linton, snappishly. ‘Take it away.’
“我不吃它！”林顿没好气地回答。 '把它拿开。'

Joseph snatched up the food indignantly, and brought it to us.
约瑟夫愤怒地抓起食物，递给我们。

‘Is there aught ails th’ victuals?’ he asked, thrusting the tray under Heathcliff’s nose.
“食物有什么问题吗？”他问道，把托盘塞到希刺克厉夫鼻子底下。

‘What should ail them?’ he said.
“他们应该怎么办？”他说。

‘Wah!’ answered Joseph, ‘yon dainty chap says he cannut ate ‘em. But I guess it’s raight! His mother wer just soa we wer a’most too mucky to sow t’ corn for makking her breead.’
“哇！”约瑟夫回答道，“这位美味的小伙子说他不能吃它们。”但我觉得是对的！他的母亲只是觉得我们“太脏了，无法播种玉米来为她做面包。”

‘Don’t mention his mother to me,’ said the master, angrily. ‘Get him something that he can eat, that’s all. What is his usual food, Nelly?’
“别跟我提起他的母亲。”大师生气地说。 ‘给他弄点他能吃的东西，仅此而已。他平时吃什么，耐莉？

I suggested boiled milk or tea; and the housekeeper received instructions to prepare some. Come, I reflected, his father’s selfishness may contribute to his comfort. He perceives his delicate constitution, and the necessity of treating him tolerably. I’ll console Mr. Edgar by acquainting him with the turn Heathcliff’s humour has taken. Having no excuse for lingering longer, I slipped out, while Linton was engaged in timidly rebuffing the advances of a friendly sheep-dog. But he was too much on the alert to be cheated: as I closed the door, I heard a cry, and a frantic repetition of the words -
我建议喝煮牛奶或茶；管家接到指示准备一些。好吧，我想，他父亲的自私可能有助于他的安慰。他意识到自己体质脆弱，需要宽容地对待他。我会告诉埃德加先生希刺克厉夫的幽默发生了怎样的转变，以此来安慰他。我没有理由再多逗留，就溜了出去，而林惇则胆怯地拒绝了一只友好的牧羊犬的主动接近。但他太警惕了，不会被骗：当我关上门时，我听到一声叫喊，然后疯狂地重复着这句话——

‘Don’t leave me! I’ll not stay here! I’ll not stay here!’
‘别离开我！我不会留在这里！我不会留在这里！

Then the latch was raised and fell: they did not suffer him to come forth. I mounted Minny, and urged her to a trot; and so my brief guardianship ended.
然后门闩升起又落下：他们不让他出来。我骑上明妮，催促她小跑。我短暂的监护就这样结束了。

Chapter XXI
第二十一章

WE had sad work with little Cathy that day: she rose in high glee, eager to join her cousin, and such passionate tears and lamentations followed the news of his departure that Edgar himself was obliged to soothe her, by affirming he should come back soon: he added, however, ‘if I can get him’; and there were no hopes of that. This promise poorly pacified her; but time was more potent; and though still at intervals she inquired of her father when Linton would return, before she did see him again his features had waxed so dim in her memory that she did not recognise him.
那天我们和小凯茜一起度过了悲伤的工作：她高兴地站起来，渴望加入她的表弟，在他离开的消息传来后，埃德加本人不得不安抚她，确认他很快就会回来：不过，他补充道，“如果我能找到他的话”；但那是没有希望的。这个承诺并没有让她平静下来。但时间的力量更大；尽管她仍然时不时地询问父亲林顿什么时候回来，但在她再次见到他之前，他的面容在她的记忆中已经变得如此模糊，以至于她认不出他了。

When I chanced to encounter the housekeeper of Wuthering Heights, in paying business visits to Gimmerton, I used to ask how the young master got on; for he lived almost as secluded as Catherine herself, and was never to be seen. I could gather from her that he continued in weak health, and was a tiresome inmate. She said Mr. Heathcliff seemed to dislike him ever longer and worse, though he took some trouble to conceal it: he had an antipathy to the sound of his voice, and could not do at all with his sitting in the same room with him many minutes together. There seldom passed much talk between them: Linton learnt his lessons and spent his evenings in a small apartment they called the parlour: or else lay in bed all day: for he was constantly getting coughs, and colds, and aches, and pains of some sort.
当我去吉默顿出差时，偶然遇到呼啸山庄的管家，我常常问少爷过得怎么样；因为他几乎和凯瑟琳一样过着与世隔绝的生活，从来不被人看见。我从她那里得知，他的健康状况一直很差，而且是个令人厌烦的囚犯。她说希刺克厉夫先生似乎越来越不喜欢他，而且越来越不喜欢他，尽管他费了一番功夫才掩饰这一点：他讨厌他的声音，而且根本无法忍受与他的许多人坐在同一个房间里。在一起几分钟。他们之间很少进行太多的交谈：林惇接受了他的教训，并在他们称之为客厅的小公寓里度过了晚上：或者整天躺在床上：因为他经常咳嗽，感冒，疼痛，以及某些人的疼痛。种类。

‘And I never know such a fainthearted creature,’ added the woman; ‘nor one so careful of hisseln. He WILL go on, if I leave the window open a bit late in the evening. Oh! it’s killing, a breath of night air! And he must have a fire in the middle of summer; and Joseph’s bacca-pipe is poison; and he must always have sweets and dainties, and always milk, milk for ever heeding naught how the rest of us are pinched in winter; and there he’ll sit, wrapped in his furred cloak in his chair by the fire, with some toast and water or other slop on the hob to sip at; and if Hareton, for pity, comes to amuse him Hareton is not bad-natured, though he’s rough they’re sure to part, one swearing and the other crying. I believe the master would relish Earnshaw’s thrashing him to a mummy, if he were not his son; and I’m certain he would be fit to turn him out of doors, if he knew half the nursing he gives hisseln. But then he won’t go into danger of temptation: he never enters the parlour, and should Linton show those ways in the house where he is, he sends him up-stairs directly.’
“我从来不知道有这么胆怯的人，”女人补充道。 “也没有人对自己如此小心。”如果我晚上把窗户开得晚一点，他就会继续。哦！呼吸夜风真是杀人！他必须在盛夏生火；约瑟夫的巴卡笛是毒药；他必须永远有糖果和美味佳肴，永远有牛奶，永远有牛奶，而不管我们其他人在冬天有多么拮据。他会坐在火炉旁的椅子上，裹着毛皮斗篷，炉灶上放着一些烤面包、水或其他泔水，可供小酌。如果哈里顿出于怜悯而来取笑他，哈里顿的脾气并不坏，尽管他很粗鲁，但他们肯定会分开，一个咒骂另一个哭泣。我相信，如果恩肖不是他的儿子，主人一定会喜欢恩肖把他打成木乃伊的。我确信，如果他知道自己所给予自己的一半护理，他就适合将他赶出家门。但这样他就不会陷入诱惑的危险了：他从不进入客厅，如果林惇在他所在的房子里展示这些方法，他就会直接把他送上楼。

I divined, from this account, that utter lack of sympathy had rendered young Heathcliff selfish and disagreeable, if he were not so originally; and my interest in him, consequently, decayed: though still I was moved with a sense of grief at his lot, and a wish that he had been left with us. Mr. Edgar encouraged me to gain information: he thought a great deal about him, I fancy, and would have run some risk to see him; and he told me once to ask the housekeeper whether he ever came into the village? She said he had only been twice, on horseback, accompanying his father; and both times he pretended to be quite knocked up for three or four days afterwards. That housekeeper left, if I recollect rightly, two years after he came; and another, whom I did not know, was her successor; she lives there still.
从这个叙述中，我推测，如果年轻的希刺克厉夫最初不是这样的话，完全缺乏同情心就会使他变得自私和令人讨厌。因此，我对他的兴趣减弱了：尽管我仍然对他的命运感到悲伤，并希望他能留在我们身边。埃德加先生鼓励我获取信息：我想，他对他想了很多，并且愿意冒一定的风险去见他；但我认为，他对他的想法很深。有一次他让我去问管家他是否进过村子？她说他只骑马陪父亲去过两次。两次之后，他都假装很沮丧的样子，持续了三四天。如果我没记错的话，那个管家在他来两年后就离开了。另一位我不认识的人是她的继任者。她还住在那里。

Time wore on at the Grange in its former pleasant way till Miss Cathy reached sixteen. On the anniversary of her birth we never manifested any signs of rejoicing, because it was also the anniversary of my late mistress’s death. Her father invariably spent that day alone in the library; and walked, at dusk, as far as Gimmerton kirkyard, where he would frequently prolong his stay beyond midnight. Therefore Catherine was thrown on her own resources for amusement. This twentieth of March was a beautiful spring day, and when her father had retired, my young lady came down dressed for going out, and said she asked to have a ramble on the edge of the moor with me: Mr. Linton had given her leave, if we went only a short distance and were back within the hour.
时间在田庄里一如既往地愉快地流逝着，直到凯茜小姐十六岁了。在她的生日那天，我们从未表现出任何高兴的迹象，因为这也是我已故情妇的忌日。那天她父亲总是独自一人在图书馆里度过。黄昏时分，一直走到吉默顿柯克亚德，他经常在那里逗留到午夜之后。因此，凯瑟琳只能依靠自己的资源来娱乐。今年三月二十号是一个美丽的春日，当她父亲退休后，我的小姐穿着外出的衣服下来，说她要和我一起去沼泽边散步：林惇先生给了她离开，如果我们只走了很短的距离并在一小时内回来。

‘So make haste, Ellen!’ she cried. ‘I know where I wish to go; where a colony of moor-game are settled: I want to see whether they have made their nests yet.’
“所以快点，艾伦！”她喊道。 “我知道我想去哪里；那里是一群沼泽动物的栖息地：我想看看它们是否已经筑巢了。”

‘That must be a good distance up,’ I answered; ‘they don’t breed on the edge of the moor.’
“那一定是一个很远的距离，”我回答道。 “它们不在沼泽边缘繁殖。”

‘No, it’s not,’ she said. ‘I’ve gone very near with papa.’
“不，不是的，”她说。 “我和爸爸走得很近。”

I put on my bonnet and sallied out, thinking nothing more of the matter. She bounded before me, and returned to my side, and was off again like a young greyhound; and, at first, I found plenty of entertainment in listening to the larks singing far and near, and enjoying the sweet, warm sunshine; and watching her, my pet and my delight, with her golden ringlets flying loose behind, and her bright cheek, as soft and pure in its bloom as a wild rose, and her eyes radiant with cloudless pleasure. She was a happy creature, and an angel, in those days. It’s a pity she could not be content.
我戴上帽子就出去了，没有再多想这件事。她在我面前跳跃，又回到我身边，像一只年轻的灵缇犬一样又走了。起初，我在聆听远近的云雀歌唱，享受甜蜜温暖的阳光中找到了很多乐趣。看着她，我的宠物和我的喜悦，她金色的卷发在背后松散地飞扬，她明亮的脸颊像野玫瑰一样柔软而纯洁，她的眼睛闪烁着无云的快乐。那时候，她是一个快乐的人，一个天使。可惜她无法满足。

‘Well,’ said I, ‘where are your moor-game, Miss Cathy? We should be at them: the Grange park-fence is a great way off now.’
“好吧，”我说，“你的沼泽游戏在哪里，凯茜小姐？我们应该到他们那里去：田庄公园的围栏现在已经很远了。”

‘Oh, a little further only a little further, Ellen,’ was her answer, continually. ‘Climb to that hillock, pass that bank, and by the time you reach the other side I shall have raised the birds.’
“哦，再远一点，艾伦，”她不断地回答。 “爬到那个小山丘，经过那个河岸，当你到达另一边时，我已经把鸟儿举起来了。”

But there were so many hillocks and banks to climb and pass, that, at length, I began to be weary, and told her we must halt, and retrace our steps. I shouted to her, as she had outstripped me a long way; she either did not hear or did not regard, for she still sprang on, and I was compelled to follow. Finally, she dived into a hollow; and before I came in sight of her again, she was two miles nearer Wuthering Heights than her own home; and I beheld a couple of persons arrest her, one of whom I felt convinced was Mr. Heathcliff himself.
但有太多的山丘和河岸需要攀爬和通过，最终我开始感到疲倦，并告诉她我们必须停下来，原路返回。我对她喊道，因为她已经远远超过了我。她要么没有听到，要么没有注意到，因为她仍然跳着，我不得不跟着。最后，她一头扎进了一个洼地里。在我再次见到她之前，她已经离呼啸山庄比她自己的家近两英里了。我看到有几个人逮捕了她，其中一个我确信就是希刺克厉夫先生本人。

Cathy had been caught in the fact of plundering, or, at least, hunting out the nests of the grouse. The Heights were Heathcliff’s land, and he was reproving the poacher.
凯茜因掠夺，或者至少是在寻找松鸡的巢而被捕。高地是希斯克利夫的土地，他正在责备偷猎者。

‘I’ve neither taken any nor found any,’ she said, as I toiled to them, expanding her hands in corroboration of the statement. ‘I didn’t mean to take them; but papa told me there were quantities up here, and I wished to see the eggs.’
“我既没有拿走任何东西，也没有找到任何东西，”当我费力地走向它们时，她说，张开双手以证实我的说法。 “我不是故意要拿走它们的，我只是想拿走它们。”但爸爸告诉我这里有很多鸡蛋，我想看看鸡蛋。”

Heathcliff glanced at me with an ill-meaning smile, expressing his acquaintance with the party, and, consequently, his malevolence towards it, and demanded who ‘papa’ was?
希刺克厉夫带着恶意的微笑看了我一眼，表示他对这个党很熟悉，因此也对这个党怀有恶意，并质问“爸爸”是谁？

‘Mr. Linton of Thrushcross Grange,’ she replied. ‘I thought you did not know me, or you wouldn’t have spoken in that way.’
'先生。画眉田庄的林惇，”她回答道。 “我以为你不认识我，不然你不会那样说话。”

‘You suppose papa is highly esteemed and respected, then?’ he said, sarcastically.
“那么，你认为爸爸很受人尊敬和尊敬吗？”他讽刺地说。

‘And what are you?’ inquired Catherine, gazing curiously on the speaker. ‘That man I’ve seen before. Is he your son?’
“那你是什么？”凯瑟琳好奇地看着说话者问道。 ‘那个人我以前见过。他是你的儿子吗？

She pointed to Hareton, the other individual, who had gained nothing but increased bulk and strength by the addition of two years to his age: he seemed as awkward and rough as ever.
她指着另一个人哈里顿，他的年龄增加了两岁，除了体积和力量增加之外什么也没得到：他看起来一如既往的笨拙和粗鲁。

‘Miss Cathy,’ I interrupted, ‘it will be three hours instead of one that we are out, presently. We really must go back.’
“凯茜小姐，”我打断道，“我们现在要出去三个小时，而不是一个小时。”我们真的必须回去。

‘No, that man is not my son,’ answered Heathcliff, pushing me aside. ‘But I have one, and you have seen him before too; and, though your nurse is in a hurry, I think both you and she would be the better for a little rest. Will you just turn this nab of heath, and walk into my house? You’ll get home earlier for the ease; and you shall receive a kind welcome.’
“不，那个人不是我的儿子，”希刺克厉夫回答道，把我推到一边。 “但我有一个，而且你以前也见过他；而且，虽然你的护士很着急，但我想你和她最好还是休息一下。你愿意翻开这片石南花，走进我的房子吗？为了方便，你会早点回家；你将会受到热烈的欢迎。

I whispered Catherine that she mustn’t, on any account, accede to the proposal: it was entirely out of the question.
我低声对凯瑟琳说，无论如何，她都不能接受这个提议：这完全不可能。

‘Why?’ she asked, aloud. ‘I’m tired of running, and the ground is dewy: I can’t sit here. Let us go, Ellen. Besides, he says I have seen his son. He’s mistaken, I think; but I guess where he lives: at the farmhouse I visited in coming from Penistone’ Crags. Don’t you?’
“为什么？”她大声问道。 “我跑累了，地上还湿漉漉的：我不能坐在这里。我们走吧，艾伦。而且他说我见过他儿子。我认为他错了；但我猜他住在哪里：在我从佩尼斯通峭壁来时参观过的农舍里。你不是吗？

‘I do. Come, Nelly, hold your tongue it will he a treat for her to look in on us. Hareton, get forwards with the lass. You shall walk with me, Nelly.’
'我愿意。来吧，耐莉，闭嘴吧，如果她能来看看我们，那就太好了。哈里顿，和那个姑娘一起上前吧。你应该和我一起走，耐莉。

‘No, she’s not going to any such place,’ I cried, struggling to release my arm, which he had seized: but she was almost at the door-stones already, scampering round the brow at full speed. Her appointed companion did not pretend to escort her: he shied off by the road-side, and vanished.
“不，她不会去任何这样的地方，”我喊道，挣扎着挣脱被他抓住的手臂：但她已经快到门石了，全速绕着额头蹦蹦跳跳。她指定的同伴并没有假装护送她：他在路边躲开，消失了。

‘Mr. Heathcliff, it’s very wrong,’ I continued: ‘you know you mean no good. And there she’ll see Linton, and all will be told as soon as ever we return; and I shall have the blame.’
'先生。希刺克厉夫，这是非常错误的，”我继续说道：“你知道你没有好意。她会在那里见到林惇，我们一回来，一切都会被告知。我应该承担责任。

‘I want her to see Linton,’ he answered; ‘he’s looking better these few days; it’s not often he’s fit to be seen. And we’ll soon persuade her to keep the visit secret: where is the harm of it?’
“我想让她见见林惇，”他回答道。 “这几天他看起来好多了；他不常被人看见。我们很快就会说服她对这次访问保密：这样做有什么害处呢？

‘The harm of it is, that her father would hate me if he found I suffered her to enter your house; and I am convinced you have a bad design in encouraging her to do so,’ I replied.
‘这样做的坏处是，如果她父亲发现我允许她进入你的房子，他会恨我的；我确信你鼓励她这样做的意图很糟糕，”我回答道。

‘My design is as honest as possible. I’ll inform you of its whole scope,’ he said. ‘That the two cousins may fall in love, and get married. I’m acting generously to your master: his young chit has no expectations, and should she second my wishes she’ll be provided for at once as joint successor with Linton.’
“我的设计尽可能诚实。我会告诉你它的全部范围，”他说。 ‘这两个表兄弟可能会坠入爱河，并结婚。我对你的主人很慷慨：他的小姑娘没有任何期望，如果她同意我的愿望，她将立即成为与林惇的联合继承人。

‘If Linton died,’ I answered, ‘and his life is quite uncertain, Catherine would be the heir.’
“如果林惇死了，”我回答道，“而且他的生活也很不确定，那么凯瑟琳将成为继承人。”

‘No, she would not,’ he said. ‘There is no clause in the will to secure it so: his property would go to me; but, to prevent disputes, I desire their union, and am resolved to bring it about.’
“不，她不会，”他说。 “遗嘱中没有任何条款来保证：他的财产归我所有；但是，为了防止纠纷，我希望他们结合，并决心实现这一目标。”

‘And I’m resolved she shall never approach your house with me again,’ I returned, as we reached the gate, where Miss Cathy waited our coming.
“我下定决心，她再也不会和我一起进你家了。”当我们到达大门时，我回答道，凯茜小姐正在那里等待着我们的到来。

Heathcliff bade me be quiet; and, preceding us up the path, hastened to open the door. My young lady gave him several looks, as if she could not exactly make up her mind what to think of him; but now he smiled when he met her eye, and softened his voice in addressing her; and I was foolish enough to imagine the memory of her mother might disarm him from desiring her injury. Linton stood on the hearth. He had been out walking in the fields, for his cap was on, and he was calling to Joseph to bring him dry shoes. He had grown tall of his age, still wanting some months of sixteen. His features were pretty yet, and his eye and complexion brighter than I remembered them, though with merely temporary lustre borrowed from the salubrious air and genial sun.
希刺克厉夫叫我安静；他在我们前面走上小路，急忙打开门。我的小姐看了他好几眼，似乎拿不定主意该怎样看待他。但现在，当他与她目光相遇时，他微笑了，并且在对她讲话时放低了声音。我愚蠢地以为，对她母亲的记忆可能会让他不再渴望她受到伤害。林惇站在炉边。他戴着帽子，当时正在田野里散步，他正在叫约瑟夫给他拿干鞋。他已经比同龄人长高了，还差几个月就满十六岁了。他的五官仍然很漂亮，他的眼睛和肤色比我记忆中更加明亮，尽管只是借用了有益健康的空气和和煦的阳光暂时的光泽。

‘Now, who is that?’ asked Mr. Heathcliff, turning to Cathy. ‘Can you tell?’
“呐，那是谁？”希刺克厉夫先生转向凯茜问道。 '你能告诉？'

‘Your son?’ she said, having doubtfully surveyed, first one and then the other.
“你的儿子？”她疑惑地看了看第一个，然后又看了看另一个，说道。

‘Yes, yes,’ answered he: ‘but is this the only time you have beheld him? Think! Ah! you have a short memory. Linton, don’t you recall your cousin, that you used to tease us so with wishing to see?’
“是的，是的，”他回答道，“但这是你唯一一次见到他吗？”思考！啊!你记性不好。林惇，你不记得你的表弟，你以前就这么戏弄我们，想见见吗？

‘What, Linton!’ cried Cathy, kindling into joyful surprise at the name. ‘Is that little Linton? He’s taller than I am! Are you Linton?’
“什么，林惇！”凯茜喊道，听到这个名字，她高兴极了。 “那是小林惇吗？他比我高！你是林惇吗？

The youth stepped forward, and acknowledged himself: she kissed him fervently, and they gazed with wonder at the change time had wrought in the appearance of each. Catherine had reached her full height; her figure was both plump and slender, elastic as steel, and her whole aspect sparkling with health and spirits. Linton’s looks and movements were very languid, and his form extremely slight; but there was a grace in his manner that mitigated these defects, and rendered him not unpleasing. After exchanging numerous marks of fondness with him, his cousin went to Mr. Heathcliff, who lingered by the door, dividing his attention between the objects inside and those that lay without: pretending, that is, to observe the latter, and really noting the former alone.
年轻人向前走去，承认了自己的身份：她热烈地吻了他，他们惊奇地凝视着时间给每个人的外表带来的变化。凯瑟琳已经达到了她的身高。她的身材既丰满又纤细，弹力如钢，整个人都焕发着健康和精神。林惇的神色和动作都很慵懒，身形也极其纤弱。但他的举止优雅，减轻了这些缺陷，使他不至于令人不快。在与他交换了无数的喜爱之情后，他的表弟走到希刺克厉夫先生那里，希刺克厉夫先生在门口徘徊，将注意力分散在里面的物体和外面的物体上：假装观察后者，并真正注意到里面的东西。前一个人。

‘And you are my uncle, then!’ she cried, reaching up to salute him. ‘I thought I liked you, though you were cross at first. Why don’t you visit at the Grange with Linton? To live all these years such close neighbours, and never see us, is odd: what have you done so for?’
“那么，你就是我叔叔了！”她喊道，伸手向他敬礼。 “我以为我喜欢你，尽管你一开始很生气。你为什么不和林惇一起去农庄参观呢？这么多年我们如此亲密地生活在一起，却从未见过我们，这很奇怪：你这样做是为了什么？

‘I visited it once or twice too often before you were born,’ he answered. ‘There damn it! If you have any kisses to spare, give them to Linton: they are thrown away on me.’
“在你出生之前，我经常去那里一两次，”他回答道。 ‘该死的！如果你还有多余的吻，就给林惇吧：它们都扔给我了。”

‘Naughty Ellen!’ exclaimed Catherine, flying to attack me next with her lavish caresses. ‘Wicked Ellen! to try to hinder me from entering. But I’ll take this walk every morning in future: may I, uncle? and sometimes bring papa. Won’t you be glad to see us?’
“淘气的艾伦！”凯瑟琳大声喊道，然后用她奢华的爱抚飞向我攻击。 ‘可恶的艾伦！试图阻止我进入。但我以后每天早上都会散步：可以吗，叔叔？有时还带爸爸来。你不高兴见到我们吗？

‘Of course,’ replied the uncle, with a hardly suppressed grimace, resulting from his deep aversion to both the proposed visitors. ‘But stay,’ he continued, turning towards the young lady. ‘Now I think of it, I’d better tell you. Mr. Linton has a prejudice against me: we quarrelled at one time of our lives, with unchristian ferocity; and, if you mention coming here to him, he’ll put a veto on your visits altogether. Therefore, you must not mention it, unless you be careless of seeing your cousin hereafter: you may come, if you will, but you must not mention it.’
“当然，”叔叔回答道，脸上难掩苦笑，因为他对这两位提议的访客深感厌恶。 “但是留下来，”他继续说道，转向那位年轻女士。 “现在我想起来了，还是告诉你吧。”林惇先生对我有一种偏见：我们一生中曾经吵过一次架，而且争吵的激烈程度不符合基督教徒的标准。而且，如果你提到来这里找他，他会完全否决你的访问。因此，你千万别提这件事，除非你以后不小心见到你的表弟：如果你愿意的话，可以来，但你绝对不能提这件事。

‘Why did you quarrel?’ asked Catherine, considerably crestfallen.
“你们为什么吵架？”凯瑟琳沮丧地问道。

‘He thought me too poor to wed his sister,’ answered Heathcliff, ‘and was grieved that I got her: his pride was hurt, and he’ll never forgive it.’
“他认为我太穷了，无法娶他的妹妹，”希刺克厉夫回答道，“他为我得到了她而感到难过：他的自尊心受到了伤害，他永远不会原谅。”

‘That’s wrong!’ said the young lady: ‘some time I’ll tell him so. But Linton and I have no share in your quarrel. I’ll not come here, then; he shall come to the Grange.’
“这是错误的！”年轻女士说道，“有一天我会告诉他的。”但林惇和我没有参与你们的争吵。那我就不来这里了；他会来田庄的。

‘It will be too far for me,’ murmured her cousin: ‘to walk four miles would kill me. No, come here, Miss Catherine, now and then: not every morning, but once or twice a week.’
“这对我来说太远了，”她的表弟低声说道，“走四英里就会要了我的命。”不，凯瑟琳小姐，时不时地来这里吧：不是每天早上，而是每周一两次。

The father launched towards his son a glance of bitter contempt.
父亲向儿子投来了痛苦的蔑视一眼。

‘I am afraid, Nelly, I shall lose my labour,’ he muttered to me. ‘Miss Catherine, as the ninny calls her, will discover his value, and send him to the devil. Now, if it had been Hareton! Do you know that, twenty times a day, I covet Hareton, with all his degradation? I’d have loved the lad had he been some one else. But I think he’s safe from HER love. I’ll pit him against that paltry creature, unless it bestir itself briskly. We calculate it will scarcely last till it is eighteen. Oh, confound the vapid thing! He’s absorbed in drying his feet, and never looks at her. Linton!’
“我担心，耐莉，我会失去我的劳动，”他对我低声说道。 ‘凯瑟琳小姐，正如傻瓜对她的称呼，会发现他的价值，并把他送到魔鬼那里。现在，如果是哈里顿就好了！你知道吗，我一天二十次觊觎哈里顿，尽管他如此堕落？如果这个小伙子是别人的话，我一定会喜欢他的。但我认为他可以免受她的爱。我会让他与那个微不足道的生物对抗，除非它能迅速地振作起来。我们估计它很难持续到十八岁。哦，真是无聊的事情！他全神贯注地擦脚，没有看她。林惇！

‘Yes, father,’ answered the boy.
“是的，父亲，”男孩回答。

‘Have you nothing to show your cousin anywhere about, not even a rabbit or a weasel’s nest? Take her into the garden, before you change your shoes; and into the stable to see your horse.’
“你没有什么可以给你表弟看的东西吗，连兔子或者黄鼠狼的巢都没有吗？”在你换鞋之前，带她去花园；进入马厩看你的马。

‘Wouldn’t you rather sit here?’ asked Linton, addressing Cathy in a tone which expressed reluctance to move again.
“你不愿意坐在这里吗？”林顿问凯茜，语气中流露出不愿再动的语气。

‘I don’t know,’ she replied, casting a longing look to the door, and evidently eager to be active.
“我不知道，”她回答道，向门口投去渴望的目光，显然渴望采取行动。

He kept his seat, and shrank closer to the fire. Heathcliff rose, and went into the kitchen, and from thence to the yard, calling out for Hareton. Hareton responded, and presently the two re-entered. The young man had been washing himself, as was visible by the glow on his cheeks and his wetted hair.
他保留座位，退缩到离火更近的地方。希刺克厉夫站起身来，走进厨房，然后又走到院子里，大声喊着哈里顿。哈里顿回应了，不久两人又重新进入。年轻人正在洗澡，从他脸颊上的光泽和湿漉漉的头发可以看出。

‘Oh, I’ll ask YOU, uncle,’ cried Miss Cathy, recollecting the housekeeper’s assertion. ‘That is not my cousin, is he?’
“哦，我会问你的，叔叔，”凯茜小姐想起管家的断言，喊道。 “那不是我表弟，是吗？”

‘Yes,’ he, replied, ‘your mother’s nephew. Don’t you like him!’
“是的，”他回答道，“你母亲的侄子。”你不喜欢他吗！

Catherine looked queer.
凯瑟琳看起来很奇怪。

‘Is he not a handsome lad?’ he continued.
“他不是一个英俊的小伙子吗？”他继续说道。

The uncivil little thing stood on tiptoe, and whispered a sentence in Heathcliff’s ear. He laughed; Hareton darkened: I perceived he was very sensitive to suspected slights, and had obviously a dim notion of his inferiority. But his master or guardian chased the frown by exclaiming -
这个不文明的小东西踮起脚尖，在希刺克厉夫耳边低声说了一句。他笑了;哈里顿的脸色变得阴沉起来：我发现他对可疑的轻视行为非常敏感，并且显然对自己的自卑有一种模糊的认识。但他的主人或监护人却大喊道：

‘You’ll be the favourite among us, Hareton! She says you are a What was it? Well, something very flattering. Here! you go with her round the farm. And behave like a gentleman, mind! Don’t use any bad words; and don’t stare when the young lady is not looking at you, and be ready to hide your face when she is; and, when you speak, say your words slowly, and keep your hands out of your pockets. Be off, and entertain her as nicely as you can.’
“你会成为我们当中最喜欢的人，哈里顿！她说你是个什么？嗯，非常讨人喜欢的事情。这里！你和她一起去农场转转。并表现得像个绅士，注意！不要使用任何脏话；当年轻女士不看你时，不要盯着你看；当她看你时，准备好遮住你的脸；说话时，要慢慢地说，不要把手插在口袋里。走吧，尽可能地招待她。”

He watched the couple walking past the window. Earnshaw had his countenance completely averted from his companion. He seemed studying the familiar landscape with a stranger’s and an artist’s interest. Catherine took a sly look at him, expressing small admiration. She then turned her attention to seeking out objects of amusement for herself, and tripped merrily on, lilting a tune to supply the lack of conversation.
他看着那对夫妇从窗前走过。恩肖的脸完全从他的同伴身上移开。他似乎以一种陌生人和艺术家的兴趣来研究熟悉的风景。凯瑟琳狡猾地看了他一眼，表达出小小的钦佩。然后，她把注意力转向为自己寻找消遣的对象，然后欢快地继续前行，轻快地唱着曲子来弥补谈话的不足。

‘I’ve tied his tongue,’ observed Heathcliff. ‘He’ll not venture a single syllable all the time! Nelly, you recollect meat his age nay, some years younger. Did I ever look so stupid: so ‘gaumless,’ as Joseph calls it?’
“我绑住了他的舌头，”希刺克厉夫说道。 ‘他不会一直冒险发出一个音节！耐莉，你记得肉他的年龄不，还年轻一些。我曾经看起来如此愚蠢吗：如约瑟夫所说的那样“毫无风度”？

‘Worse,’ I replied, ‘because more sullen with it.’
“更糟糕，”我回答道，“因为这样更闷闷不乐。”

‘I’ve a pleasure in him,’ he continued, reflecting aloud. ‘He has satisfied my expectations. If he were a born fool I should not enjoy it half so much. But he’s no fool; and I can sympathise with all his feelings, having felt them myself. I know what he suffers now, for instance, exactly: it is merely a beginning of what he shall suffer, though. And he’ll never be able to emerge from his bathos of coarseness and ignorance. I’ve got him faster than his scoundrel of a father secured me, and lower; for he takes a pride in his brutishness. I’ve taught him to scorn everything extraanimal as silly and weak. Don’t you think Hindley would be proud of his son, if he could see him? almost as proud as I am of mine. But there’s this difference; one is gold put to the use of pavingstones, and the other is tin polished to ape a service of silver. MINE has nothing valuable about it; yet I shall have the merit of making it go as far as such poor stuff can go. HIS had first-rate qualities, and they are lost: rendered worse than unavailing. I have nothing to regret; he would have more than any but I are aware of. And the best of it is, Hareton is damnably fond of me! You’ll own that I’ve outmatched Hindley there. If the dead villain could rise from his grave to abuse me for his offspring’s wrongs, I should have the fun of seeing the said offspring fight him back again, indignant that he should dare to rail at the one friend he has in the world!’
“我很高兴他，”他继续说道，大声反思道。 ‘他满足了我的期望。如果他是个天生的傻瓜，我就不会这么喜欢它。但他并不傻。我能理解他的所有感受，因为我自己也有过这样的感受。例如，我确切地知道他现在正在遭受什么：不过，这只是他将要遭受的痛苦的开始。他永远无法摆脱粗俗和无知的困境。我抓到他的速度比他这个恶棍父亲抓到我的速度还要快，而且也比他抓到我的速度要低。因为他为自己的野蛮而自豪。我教他蔑视一切非动物的东西，认为它们是愚蠢和软弱的。你不认为辛德利如果能见到他的儿子，他会为他感到骄傲吗？几乎和我为自己感到骄傲一样。但有一个区别：一种是用黄金来制作铺路石，另一种是用锡抛光来模仿银的服务。我的没有任何价值；但我将有功劳，让这些可怜的东西尽可能地发展下去。他的IS拥有一流的品质，但它们却消失了：变得比无用更糟糕。我没有什么可遗憾的；据我所知，他比任何人都拥有更多。最棒的是，哈里顿非常喜欢我！你会承认我在这方面比欣德利更胜一筹。如果那个死去的恶棍能从坟墓里爬起来，为他的后代的错误而辱骂我，我应该很高兴看到那个后代再次反击他，为他竟然敢辱骂他在世界上唯一的朋友而感到愤怒！

Heathcliff chuckled a fiendish laugh at the idea. I made no reply, because I saw that he expected none. Meantime, our young companion, who sat too removed from us to hear what was said, began to evince symptoms of uneasiness, probably repenting that he had denied himself the treat of Catherine’s society for fear of a little fatigue. His father remarked the restless glances wandering to the window, and the hand irresolutely extended towards his cap.
希刺克厉夫听到这个想法，发出一阵邪恶的笑声。我没有回答，因为我看出他并不期待什么。与此同时，我们的年轻同伴，因为坐得离我们太远，听不到我们在说什么，开始表现出不安的症状，可能正在后悔自己因为害怕有点疲劳而拒绝接受凯瑟琳的社交。他的父亲注意到那些焦躁不安的目光在窗外徘徊，他的手犹豫不决地伸向他的帽子。

‘Get up, you idle boy!’ he exclaimed, with assumed heartiness.
“起来吧，你这懒孩子！”他假装热心地喊道。

‘Away after them! they are just at the corner, by the stand of hives.’
‘跟他们走吧！他们就在拐角处，在蜂巢旁。”

Linton gathered his energies, and left the hearth. The lattice was open, and, as he stepped out, I heard Cathy inquiring of her unsociable attendant what was that inscription over the door? Hareton stared up, and scratched his head like a true clown.
林惇集中精力，离开了壁炉。格子是开着的，当他走出去时，我听到凯茜询问她那不善交际的服务员，门上的铭文是什么？哈里顿抬起头，像个真正的小丑一样挠挠头。

‘It’s some damnable writing,’ he answered. ‘I cannot read it.’
“这是一些该死的文章，”他回答道。 “我看不懂。”

‘Can’t read it?’ cried Catherine; ‘I can read it: it’s English. But I want to know why it is there.’
“看不懂吗？”凯瑟琳喊道。 “我能读懂：这是英语。但我想知道为什么它在那里。

Linton giggled: the first appearance of mirth he had exhibited.
林惇咯咯地笑起来：这是他第一次表现出笑容。

‘He does not know his letters,’ he said to his cousin. ‘Could you believe in the existence of such a colossal dunce?’
“他不认识他的字母，”他对他的表弟说。 “你能相信有这么一个大笨蛋的存在吗？”

‘Is he all as he should be?’ asked Miss Cathy, seriously; ‘or is he simple: not right? I’ve questioned him twice now, and each time he looked so stupid I think he does not understand me. I can hardly understand him, I’m sure!’
“他一切正常吗？”凯茜小姐严肃地问道。或者他很简单：不对吗？我已经问过他两次了，每次他都显得那么愚蠢，我认为他不明白我的意思。我确信我很难理解他！

Linton repeated his laugh, and glanced at Hareton tauntingly; who certainly did not seem quite clear of comprehension at that moment.
林惇又笑了一声，嘲讽地看了哈里顿一眼。他当时显然还不太明白。

‘There’s nothing the matter but laziness; is there, Earnshaw?’ he said. ‘My cousin fancies you are an idiot. There you experience the consequence of scorning ‘book-larning,’ as you would say. Have you noticed, Catherine, his frightful Yorkshire pronunciation?’
‘没什么问题，只是懒惰；恩肖，在吗？”他说。 “我表弟认为你是个白痴。正如你所说，在那里你会体验到蔑视“读书”的后果。凯瑟琳，你注意到他可怕的约克郡发音了吗？

‘Why, where the devil is the use on’t?’ growled Hareton, more ready in answering his daily companion. He was about to enlarge further, but the two youngsters broke into a noisy fit of merriment: my giddy miss being delighted to discover that she might turn his strange talk to matter of amusement.
“哎呀，这到底有什么用呢？”哈里顿咆哮道，他更愿意回答他的日常伙伴了。他正要进一步扩大，但这两个年轻人突然爆发出一阵喧闹的欢乐：我那头晕的小姐很高兴地发现她可能把他奇怪的谈话变成了娱乐。

‘Where is the use of the devil in that sentence?’ tittered Linton. ‘Papa told you not to say any bad words, and you can’t open your mouth without one. Do try to behave like a gentleman, now do!’
“这句话里哪里用到了魔鬼？”林惇笑着说。 ‘爸爸告诉过你不要说脏话，没有脏话就张不开嘴。请尝试表现得像个绅士，现在就做！”

‘If thou weren’t more a lass than a lad, I’d fell thee this minute, I would; pitiful lath of a crater!’ retorted the angry boor, retreating, while his face burnt with mingled rage and mortification! for he was conscious of being insulted, and embarrassed how to resent it.
“如果你不是更像个姑娘而不是个小伙子，我会在这一分钟摔倒你，我会的；可怜的一个弹坑！”愤怒的乡巴佬反驳道，一边后退，一边满脸怒火和屈辱！因为他意识到自己受到了侮辱，却又不知如何去怨恨它，这让他感到尴尬。

Mr. Heathcliff having overheard the conversation, as well as I, smiled when he saw him go; but immediately afterwards cast a look of singular aversion on the flippant pair, who remained chattering in the door-way: the boy finding animation enough while discussing Hareton’s faults and deficiencies, and relating anecdotes of his goings on; and the girl relishing his pert and spiteful sayings, without considering the ill-nature they evinced. I began to dislike, more than to compassionate Linton, and to excuse his father in some measure for holding him cheap.
希刺克厉夫先生和我都无意中听到了这次谈话，看到他离去时，他笑了。但紧接着，他对这对轻率的夫妇投以一种奇异的厌恶的目光，他们仍在门口闲聊：男孩在讨论哈里顿的缺点和不足，并讲述他的轶事时发现了足够的活力；女孩津津有味地欣赏着他的轻率而恶毒的言论，却没有考虑到这些言论所表现出的恶意。我开始不喜欢林惇，而不是同情林惇，并在某种程度上原谅他的父亲低估了他。

We stayed till afternoon: I could not tear Miss Cathy away sooner; but happily my master had not quitted his apartment, and remained ignorant of our prolonged absence. As we walked home, I would fain have enlightened my charge on the characters of the people we had quitted: but she got it into her head that I was prejudiced against them.
我们一直呆到下午：我不能早点把凯茜小姐带走；但幸运的是，我的主人没有离开他的公寓，并且对我们长时间不在的情况一无所知。当我们走回家的时候，我很想了解一下我们已经辞职的人的性格，但她认为我对他们有偏见。

‘Aha!’ she cried, ‘you take papa’s side, Ellen: you are partial I know; or else you wouldn’t have cheated me so many years into the notion that Linton lived a long way from here. I’m really extremely angry; only I’m so pleased I can’t show it! But you must hold your tongue about MY uncle; he’s my uncle, remember; and I’ll scold papa for quarrelling with him.’
“啊哈！”她喊道，“你站在爸爸一边，艾伦：我知道你很偏心；但我知道你是偏心的。”否则你就不会欺骗我这么多年，让我相信林惇住的地方离这里很远。我真的非常生气；只是我太高兴了，无法表现出来！但你必须对我叔叔保持沉默；记住，他是我叔叔；我会因为爸爸和他吵架而责骂他。

And so she ran on, till I relinquished the endeavour to convince her of her mistake. She did not mention the visit that night, because she did not see Mr. Linton. Next day it all came out, sadly to my chagrin; and still I was not altogether sorry: I thought the burden of directing and warning would be more efficiently borne by him than me. But he was too timid in giving satisfactory reasons for his wish that she should shun connection with the household of the Heights, and Catherine liked good reasons for every restraint that harassed her petted will.
于是她继续往前走，直到我放弃了让她承认错误的努力。她没有提及那天晚上的来访，因为她没有见到林惇先生。第二天，一切都真相大白了，这让我非常懊恼。但我并不完全感到遗憾：我认为他比我更能有效地承担指导和警告的重担。但他太胆怯了，没有给出令人满意的理由，要求她避开与高地家族的联系，而凯瑟琳喜欢为每一个骚扰她娇小的意志的克制找到充分的理由。

‘Papa!’ she exclaimed, after the morning’s salutations, ‘guess whom I saw yesterday, in my walk on the moors. Ah, papa, you started! you’ve not done right, have you, now? I saw but listen, and you shall hear how I found you out; and Ellen, who is in league with you, and yet pretended to pity me so, when I kept hoping, and was always disappointed about Linton’s coming back!’
“爸爸！”在早上的问候之后，她喊道，“猜猜我昨天在荒原上散步时看到了谁。啊，爸爸，你开始了！你现在还没有做对吗？我只看到但听过，你就会听到我是如何找到你的；还有艾伦，她与你结盟，却假装如此怜悯我，而我一直抱着希望，对林惇的回来总是感到失望！

She gave a faithful account of her excursion and its consequences; and my master, though he cast more than one reproachful look at me, said nothing till she had concluded. Then he drew her to him, and asked if she knew why he had concealed Linton’s near neighbourhood from her? Could she think it was to deny her a pleasure that she might harmlessly enjoy?
她忠实地讲述了她的旅行及其后果。我的主人虽然不止一次地用责备的眼神看着我，但在她说完之前什么也没说。然后他把她拉到身边，问她是否知道他为什么向她隐瞒林顿附近的邻居？她会不会认为这是在剥夺她本来可以无害地享受的快乐？

‘It was because you disliked Mr. Heathcliff,’ she answered.
“那是因为你不喜欢希刺克厉夫先生，”她回答道。

‘Then you believe I care more for my own feelings than yours, Cathy?’ he said. ‘No, it was not because I disliked Mr. Heathcliff, but because Mr. Heathcliff dislikes me; and is a most diabolical man, delighting to wrong and ruin those he hates, if they give him the slightest opportunity. I knew that you could not keep up an acquaintance with your cousin without being brought into contact with him; and I knew he would detest you on my account; so for your own good, and nothing else, I took precautions that you should not see Linton again. I meant to explain this some time as you grew older, and I’m sorry I delayed it.’
“那么你认为我更关心自己的感受而不是你的感受，凯茜？”他说。 “不，不是因为我不喜欢希斯克利夫先生，而是因为希斯克利夫先生不喜欢我；”他是一个最邪恶的人，只要他们给他一丝机会，他就乐于伤害和毁掉他所憎恨的人。我知道你不可能在不与你表弟接触的情况下与他保持相识。我知道他会因为我的缘故而憎恨你；所以为了你好，没有别的，我采取了预防措施，不让你再见到林惇。我本想等你长大后找个时间解释一下，很抱歉我推迟了。”

‘But Mr. Heathcliff was quite cordial, papa,’ observed Catherine, not at all convinced; ‘and he didn’t object to our seeing each other: he said I might come to his house when I pleased; only I must not tell you, because you had quarrelled with him, and would not forgive him for marrying aunt Isabella. And you won’t. YOU are the one to be blamed: he is willing to let us be friends, at least; Linton and I; and you are not.’
“但是希刺克厉夫先生非常热情，爸爸，”凯瑟琳说道，但她一点也不相信。 “他并不反对我们见面：他说我愿意的时候可以去他家；只是我不能告诉你，因为你和他吵过架，并且不会原谅他娶了伊莎贝拉姨妈。而你不会。你才是该受责备的人：他至少愿意让我们成为朋友；林惇和我；但你不是。

My master, perceiving that she would not take his word for her uncle-in-law’s evil disposition, gave a hasty sketch of his conduct to Isabella, and the manner in which Wuthering Heights became his property. He could not bear to discourse long upon the topic; for though he spoke little of it, he still felt the same horror and detestation of his ancient enemy that had occupied his heart ever since Mrs. Linton’s death. ‘She might have been living yet, if it had not been for him!’ was his constant bitter reflection; and, in his eyes, Heathcliff seemed a murderer. Miss Cathy conversant with no bad deeds except her own slight acts of disobedience, injustice, and passion, arising from hot temper and thoughtlessness, and repented of on the day they were committed was amazed at the blackness of spirit that could brood on and cover revenge for years, and deliberately prosecute its plans without a visitation of remorse. She appeared so deeply impressed and shocked at this new view of human nature excluded from all her studies and all her ideas till now that Mr. Edgar deemed it unnecessary to pursue the subject. He merely added: ‘You will know hereafter, darling, why I wish you to avoid his house and family; now return to your old employments and amusements, and think no more about them.’
我的主人察觉到她不会相信他叔叔的坏脾气，便匆匆向伊莎贝拉描述了他的行为，以及呼啸山庄成为他财​​产的方式。他不忍心对这个话题进行长篇大论。因为尽管他很少谈论这件事，但自从林惇夫人死后，他仍然对他的宿敌感到同样的恐惧和厌恶，这种恐惧和厌恶一直占据着他的心。 “如果没有他，她可能还活着！”这是他不断痛苦的反思。在他眼里，希斯克利夫就像一个杀人犯。凯茜小姐除了自己因脾气暴躁和粗心而犯下的轻微不服从、不公正和激情行为外，没有做过任何坏事，并在犯罪当天就后悔了，她惊讶于精神的黑暗可以沉思并掩盖复仇多年来，并故意执行其计划，毫无悔意。迄今为止，她对这种新的人性观印象深刻和震惊，她的所有研究和所有想法都被排除在外，埃德加先生认为没有必要继续研究这个主题。他只是补充道：“亲爱的，你以后就会知道，为什么我希望你避开他的房子和家人；”现在回到你原来的工作和娱乐中去吧，不要再想它们了。”

Catherine kissed her father, and sat down quietly to her lessons for a couple of hours, according to custom; then she accompanied him into the grounds, and the whole day passed as usual: but in the evening, when she had retired to her room, and I went to help her to undress, I found her crying, on her knees by the bedside.
凯瑟琳亲吻了她的父亲，然后按照惯例安静地坐下来听了几个小时的课。然后她陪着他走进庭院，一整天都像往常一样过去了：但是到了晚上，当她回到自己的房间，我去帮她脱衣服时，我发现她跪在床边哭泣。

‘Oh, fie, silly child!’ I exclaimed. ‘If you had any real griefs you’d be ashamed to waste a tear on this little contrariety. You never had one shadow of substantial sorrow, Miss Catherine. Suppose, for a minute, that master and I were dead, and you were by yourself in the world: how would you feel, then? Compare the present occasion with such an affliction as that, and be thankful for the friends you have, instead of coveting more.’
“哦，哎呀，傻孩子！”我惊呼道。 “如果你有真正的悲伤，你会羞于在这个小小的矛盾上浪费一滴眼泪。凯瑟琳小姐，你从未有过一丝真正的悲伤。假设，一会儿，那位大师和我都死了，而你独自一人在世界上：那么你会有什么感觉？将当前的情况与这样的痛苦进行比较，并感谢你所拥有的朋友，而不是贪图更多。

‘I’m not crying for myself, Ellen,’ she answered, ‘it’s for him. He expected to see me again to-morrow, and there he’ll be so disappointed: and he’ll wait for me, and I sha’n’t come!’
“我不是为自己哭泣，艾伦，”她回答道，“是为了他。”他预计明天会再次见到我，但他会非常失望：他会等我，而我不会来！

‘Nonsense!’ said I, ‘do you imagine he has thought as much of you as you have of him? Hasn’t he Hareton for a companion? Not one in a hundred would weep at losing a relation they had just seen twice, for two afternoons. Linton will conjecture how it is, and trouble himself no further about you.’
“胡说！”我说，“你以为他和你一样重视你吗？”哈里顿不是他的同伴吗？没有百分之一的人会因为失去刚刚见过两次面、两个下午的亲戚而哭泣。林惇会猜到是怎么回事，就不再为你烦恼了。

‘But may I not write a note to tell him why I cannot come?’ she asked, rising to her feet. ‘And just send those books I promised to lend him? His books are not as nice as mine, and he wanted to have them extremely, when I told him how interesting they were. May I not, Ellen?’
“但是我可以不写张纸条告诉他我为什么不能来吗？”她站起来问道。 ‘然后把我答应借给他的那些书寄给他？他的书不如我的好，当我告诉他这些书有多有趣时，他非常想拥有它们。我可以不做吗，艾伦？

‘No, indeed! no, indeed!’ replied I with decision. ‘Then he would write to you, and there’d never be an end of it. No, Miss Catherine, the acquaintance must be dropped entirely: so papa expects, and I shall see that it is done.’
‘不，确实如此！不，确实如此！”我坚定地回答道。 “然后他就会写信给你，这样的事情永远不会结束。”不，凯瑟琳小姐，我们必须彻底断交：正如爸爸所期望的那样，我会看到这件事完成。

‘But how can one little note ?’ she recommenced, putting on an imploring countenance.
“但是一张小纸条怎么可能呢？”她重新开始，脸上露出恳求的表情。

‘Silence!’ I interrupted. ‘We’ll not begin with your little notes. Get into bed.’
“安静！”我打断道。 “我们不会从你的小笔记开始。上床睡觉吧。

She threw at me a very naughty look, so naughty that I would not kiss her good-night at first: I covered her up, and shut her door, in great displeasure; but, repenting half-way, I returned softly, and lo! there was Miss standing at the table with a bit of blank paper before her and a pencil in her hand, which she guiltily slipped out of sight on my entrance.
她向我投了一个非常调皮的眼神，调皮得我一开始都没有吻她道晚安：我非常不高兴地给她盖好被子，关上门；但是，我半路悔悟了，轻轻地回来了，瞧！小姐站在桌边，面前放着一张白纸，手里拿着一支铅笔，当我进来时，她愧疚地把铅笔从我的视线中溜走了。

‘You’ll get nobody to take that, Catherine,’ I said, ‘if you write it; and at present I shall put out your candle.’
“凯瑟琳，如果你写的话，没人会接受，”我说。现在我要熄灭你的蜡烛了。

I set the extinguisher on the flame, receiving as I did so a slap on my hand and a petulant ‘cross thing!’ I then quitted her again, and she drew the bolt in one of her worst, most peevish humours. The letter was finished and forwarded to its destination by a milkfetcher who came from the village; but that I didn’t learn till some time afterwards. Weeks passed on, and Cathy recovered her temper; though she grew wondrous fond of stealing off to corners by herself and often, if I came near her suddenly while reading, she would start and bend over the book, evidently desirous to hide it; and I detected edges of loose paper sticking out beyond the leaves. She also got a trick of coming down early in the morning and lingering about the kitchen, as if she were expecting the arrival of something; and she had a small drawer in a cabinet in the library, which she would trifle over for hours, and whose key she took special care to remove when she left it.
我把灭火器放在火焰上，当我这样做时，我的手被打了一巴掌，还有一个脾气暴躁的“十字！”然后我再次离开了她，她以她最糟糕、最暴躁的心情之一拉开了门闩。信写好后，由村里来的挤奶工送到了目的地。但我直到后来才知道。几个星期过去了，凯茜恢复了脾气。尽管她越来越喜欢独自偷偷地溜到角落里，而且经常，如果我在读书时突然靠近她，她会惊讶地弯下身子伏在书上，显然是想把它藏起来。我发现松散的纸张边缘伸出树叶之外。她还有一个窍门，一大早就下来，在厨房里徘徊，好像在等待着什么东西的到来。她在图书馆的柜子里有一个小抽屉，她会花几个小时摆弄它，当她离开它时，她会特别小心地把它的钥匙取下。

One day, as she inspected this drawer, I observed that the playthings and trinkets which recently formed its contents were transmuted into bits of folded paper. My curiosity and suspicions were roused; I determined to take a peep at her mysterious treasures; so, at night, as soon as she and my master were safe upstairs, I searched, and readily found among my house keys one that would fit the lock. Having opened, I emptied the whole contents into my apron, and took them with me to examine at leisure in my own chamber. Though I could not but suspect, I was still surprised to discover that they were a mass of correspondence daily almost, it must have been from Linton Heathcliff: answers to documents forwarded by her. The earlier dated were embarrassed and short; gradually, however, they expanded into copious loveletters, foolish, as the age of the writer rendered natural, yet with touches here and there which I thought were borrowed from a more experienced source. Some of them struck me as singularly odd compounds of ardour and flatness; commencing in strong feeling, and concluding in the affected, wordy style that a schoolboy might use to a fancied, incorporeal sweetheart. Whether they satisfied Cathy I don’t know; but they appeared very worthless trash to me. After turning over as many as I thought proper, I tied them in a handkerchief and set them aside, relocking the vacant drawer.
有一天，当她检查这个抽屉时，我发现里面最近装的玩具和小饰品都变成了折叠纸片。我的好奇心和怀疑被勾起来了；我决定去看看她的神秘宝藏；因此，晚上，当她和我的主人安全上楼时，我就四处寻找，很容易在我的房子钥匙中找到了一把适合锁的钥匙。打开后，我把里面的东西全部倒进我的围裙里，然后带着它们在我自己的房间里悠闲地检查。虽然我不得不怀疑，但我还是惊讶地发现，几乎每天都有大量信件，肯定是林惇·希刺克厉夫寄来的：对她转发的文件的答复。较早的约会内容尴尬且简短；然而，渐渐地，它们扩展成了大量的情书，随着作者年龄的增长，这些情书显得很愚蠢，但其中的一些笔触，我认为是从更有经验的来源借来的。其中一些给我的印象是热情与平淡的奇特组合；以强烈的感情开始，以矫揉造作、啰嗦的风格结束，就像一个小学生对心仪的、无形的情人可能会使用的风格。我不知道他们是否让凯茜满意；但他们对我来说却是毫无价值的垃圾。我翻完我认为合适的数量后，用手帕把它们绑起来放在一边，重新锁上空抽屉。

Following her habit, my young lady descended early, and visited the kitchen: I watched her go to the door, on the arrival of a certain little boy; and, while the dairymaid filled his can, she tucked something into his jacket pocket, and plucked something out. I went round by the garden, and laid wait for the messenger; who fought valorously to defend his trust, and we spilt the milk between us; but I succeeded in abstracting the epistle; and, threatening serious consequences if he did not look sharp home, I remained under the wall and perused Miss Cathy’s affectionate composition. It was more simple and more eloquent than her cousin’s: very pretty and very silly. I shook my head, and went meditating into the house. The day being wet, she could not divert herself with rambling about the park; so, at the conclusion of her morning studies, she resorted to the solace of the drawer. Her father sat reading at the table; and I, on purpose, had sought a bit of work in some unripped fringes of the window-curtain, keeping my eye steadily fixed on her proceedings. Never did any bird flying back to a plundered nest, which it had left brimful of chirping young ones, express more complete despair, in its anguished cries and flutterings, than she by her single ‘Oh!’ and the change that transfigured her late happy countenance. Mr. Linton looked up.
按照她的习惯，我的小姐很早就下了楼，去了厨房。我看着她走到门口，一个小男孩到来了；我看着她走到门口。当挤奶女工给他装满罐头的时候，她把一些东西塞进他的夹克口袋里，然后又拿出一些东西。我绕过花园，等待使者。他为了捍卫自己的信任而英勇战斗，而我们却把牛奶洒在了我们之间；但我成功地摘录了这封信；我威胁说，如果他在家里表现得不够敏锐，后果将严重，于是我留在墙下，仔细阅读凯茜小姐深情的作文。这比她表弟的更简单，也更有说服力：很漂亮，也很傻。我摇摇头，走进屋内沉思起来。天很湿，她无法在公园里闲逛来消遣。因此，早上的学习结束后，她求助于抽屉的安慰。她的父亲坐在桌边看书。我故意在窗帘的一些未撕开的边缘上找了一些工作，眼睛一直盯着她的动作。从来没有哪只鸟儿飞回被掠夺的巢穴，那里充满了叽叽喳喳的小鸟，在痛苦的叫声和扑腾的翅膀中表达出比她单声“哦！”和使她已故的快乐变得更加彻底的绝望。面容。林惇先生抬起头来。

‘What is the matter, love? Have you hurt yourself?’ he said.
‘怎么了，亲爱的？你受伤了吗？”他说。

His tone and look assured her HE had not been the discoverer of the hoard.
他的语气和表情让她确信他不是宝藏的发现者。

‘No, papa!’ she gasped. ‘Ellen! Ellen! come up-stairs I’m sick!’
“不，爸爸！”她喘着气说。 ‘艾伦！艾伦！上楼来吧，我病了！”

I obeyed her summons, and accompanied her out.
我听从了她的召唤，陪着她出去了。

‘Oh, Ellen! you have got them,’ she commenced immediately, dropping on her knees, when we were enclosed alone. ‘Oh, give them to me, and I’ll never, never do so again! Don’t tell papa. You have not told papa, Ellen? say you have not? I’ve been exceedingly naughty, but I won’t do it any more!’
哦，艾伦！你已经拿到了，”当我们被单独围起来时，她立即跪下来说道。 ‘噢，把它们给我吧，我再也不会这样做了！别告诉爸爸。你还没告诉爸爸吗，艾伦？说你没有？我已经很调皮了，但我不会再这样做了！

With a grave severity in my manner I bade her stand up.
我以严肃的态度请她站起来。

‘So,’ I exclaimed, ‘Miss Catherine, you are tolerably far on, it seems: you may well be ashamed of them! A fine bundle of trash you study in your leisure hours, to be sure: why, it’s good enough to be printed! And what do you suppose the master will think when I display it before him? I hav’n’t shown it yet, but you needn’t imagine I shall keep your ridiculous secrets. For shame! and you must have led the way in writing such absurdities: he would not have thought of beginning, I’m certain.’
“所以，”我惊呼道，“凯瑟琳小姐，看来你离得太远了：你很可能为他们感到羞耻！”可以肯定的是，你在闲暇时间研究的一大堆垃圾：为什么，它足够好，可以打印出来！当我把它展示在大师面前时，你猜他会怎么想？我还没有表现出来，但你不必想象我会保守你可笑的秘密。耻辱！你一定是带头写出这些荒谬的东西的：我敢肯定，他不会想到开始。

‘I didn’t! I didn’t!’ sobbed Cathy, fit to break her heart. ‘I didn’t once think of loving him till ‘
‘我没有！我没有！”凯茜抽泣着，心都碎了。 “我从来没有想过爱他，直到”

‘LOVING!’ cried I, as scornfully as I could utter the word. ‘LOVING! Did anybody ever hear the like! I might just as well talk of loving the miller who comes once a year to buy our corn. Pretty loving, indeed! and both times together you have seen Linton hardly four hours in your life! Now here is the babyish trash. I’m going with it to the library; and we’ll see what your father says to such LOVING.’
“爱！”我大声喊道，语气中充满了轻蔑。 ‘爱！有没有人听过类似的话！我不妨谈谈喜欢每年一次来购买我们玉米的磨坊主。确实很有爱啊！在你的一生中，两次见到林惇的时间还不到四个小时！现在这里是幼稚的垃圾。我要带着它去图书馆；我们会看看你父亲对这样的爱怎么说。

She sprang at her precious epistles, but I hold them above my head; and then she poured out further frantic entreaties that I would burn them do anything rather than show them. And being really fully as much inclined to laugh as scold for I esteemed it all girlish vanity I at length relented in a measure, and asked, ‘If I consent to burn them, will you promise faithfully neither to send nor receive a letter again, nor a book (for I perceive you have sent him books), nor locks of hair, nor rings, nor playthings?’
她跳向她珍贵的书信，但我把它们举过头顶；然后她又疯狂地恳求我无论做什么都可以烧死他们，而不是让他们看。我真的既想笑又想骂，因为我认为这都是女孩子的虚荣心，我终于在一定程度上软化了，并问道：“如果我同意烧掉它们，你能忠实地保证不再寄出或收到信吗？”也没有一本书（因为我知道你给他寄了书），也没有一绺头发，也没有戒指，也没有玩具？

‘We don’t send playthings,’ cried Catherine, her pride overcoming her shame.
“我们不送玩具，”凯瑟琳喊道，她的骄傲战胜了羞耻。

‘Nor anything at all, then, my lady?’ I said. ‘Unless you will, here I go.’
“那么，什么也没有，小姐？”我说。 “除非你愿意，否则我就走吧。”

‘I promise, Ellen!’ she cried, catching my dress. ‘Oh, put them in the fire, do, do!’
“我保证，艾伦！”她喊道，抓住了我的裙子。 “哦，把它们放进火里，做，做！”

But when I proceeded to open a place with the poker the sacrifice was too painful to be borne. She earnestly supplicated that I would spare her one or two.
但当我用拨火棍打开一个地方时，牺牲太痛苦了，难以忍受。她恳求我饶她一两个。

‘One or two, Ellen, to keep for Linton’s sake!’
“艾伦，看在林惇的份上，留一两个吧！”

I unknotted the handkerchief, and commenced dropping them in from an angle, and the flame curled up the chimney.
我解开手帕，开始从一个角度把它们扔进去，火焰沿着烟囱升起。

‘I will have one, you cruel wretch!’ she screamed, darting her hand into the fire, and drawing forth some half-consumed fragments, at the expense of her fingers.
“我要一个，你这个残忍的家伙！”她尖叫着，把手伸进火里，拉出了一些半烧焦的碎片，但牺牲了她的手指。

‘Very well and I will have some to exhibit to papa!’ I answered, shaking back the rest into the bundle, and turning anew to the door.
“很好，我要拿一些给爸爸看！”我回答道，把剩下的东西抖回到包裹里，然后又转身向门口走去。

She emptied her blackened pieces into the flames, and motioned me to finish the immolation. It was done; I stirred up the ashes, and interred them under a shovelful of coals; and she mutely, and with a sense of intense injury, retired to her private apartment. I descended to tell my master that the young lady’s qualm of sickness was almost gone, but I judged it best for her to lie down a while. She wouldn’t dine; but she reappeared at tea, pale, and red about the eyes, and marvellously subdued in outward aspect. Next morning I answered the letter by a slip of paper, inscribed, ‘Master Heathcliff is requested to send no more notes to Miss Linton, as she will not receive them.’ And, henceforth, the little boy came with vacant pockets.
她把烧焦的碎片倒入火焰中，示意我完成自焚。事情已经完成了；我搅动了灰烬，把它们埋在一铲炭下。她一声不吭，带着一种强烈的受伤感，回到了自己的私人公寓。我下楼告诉主人，这位年轻女士的病痛已经差不多消失了，但我认为她最好再躺一会儿。她不肯吃饭；但喝茶时她又出现了，脸色苍白，眼睛周围发红，外表出奇地柔和。第二天早上，我用一张纸条回了信，上面写着：“请希刺克厉夫少爷不要再给林惇小姐寄纸条，因为她不会收到。”从此以后，小男孩的口袋里空空如也。

Chapter XXII
第二十二章

SUMMER drew to an end, and early autumn: it was past Michaelmas, but the harvest was late that year, and a few of our fields were still uncleared. Mr. Linton and his daughter would frequently walk out among the reapers; at the carrying of the last sheaves they stayed till dusk, and the evening happening to be chill and damp, my master caught a bad cold, that settled obstinately on his lungs, and confined him indoors throughout the whole of the winter, nearly without intermission.
夏季即将结束，初秋已过：米迦勒节已经过去，但那年的收成较晚，我们的一些田地还没有清理干净。林惇先生和他的女儿经常在收割者中间行走。搬运最后一捆麦子时，他们一直待到黄昏，晚上又冷又湿，我的主人得了重感冒，肺部顽固不化，整个冬天都把他关在室内，几乎没有间断。 。

Poor Cathy, frightened from her little romance, had been considerably sadder and duller since its abandonment; and her father insisted on her reading less, and taking more exercise. She had his companionship no longer; I esteemed it a duty to supply its lack, as much as possible, with mine: an inefficient substitute; for I could only spare two or three hours, from my numerous diurnal occupations, to follow her footsteps, and then my society was obviously less desirable than his.
可怜的凯茜被她的小浪漫吓坏了，自从被遗弃以来，她变得更加悲伤和迟钝。她的父亲坚持要求她少读书，多锻炼。她不再有他的陪伴；她不再有他的陪伴。我认为有责任尽可能地用我的东西来弥补它的不足：一个低效的替代品；因为我只能从繁重的日常工作中抽出两三个小时来追随她的脚步，而我的交往显然不如他那么令人向往。

On an afternoon in October, or the beginning of November a fresh watery afternoon, when the turf and paths were rustling with moist, withered leaves, and the cold blue sky was half hidden by clouds dark grey streamers, rapidly mounting from the west, and boding abundant rain I requested my young lady to forego her ramble, because I was certain of showers. She refused; and I unwillingly donned a cloak, and took my umbrella to accompany her on a stroll to the bottom of the park: a formal walk which she generally affected if low-spirited and that she invariably was when Mr. Edgar had been worse than ordinary, a thing never known from his confession, but guessed both by her and me from his increased silence and the melancholy of his countenance. She went sadly on: there was no running or bounding now, though the chill wind might well have tempted her to race. And often, from the side of my eye, I could detect her raising a hand, and brushing something off her cheek. I gazed round for a means of diverting her thoughts. On one side of the road rose a high, rough bank, where hazels and stunted oaks, with their roots half exposed, held uncertain tenure: the soil was too loose for the latter; and strong winds had blown some nearly horizontal. In summer Miss Catherine delighted to climb along these trunks, and sit in the branches, swinging twenty feet above the ground; and I, pleased with her agility and her light, childish heart, still considered it proper to scold every time I caught her at such an elevation, but so that she knew there was no necessity for descending. From dinner to tea she would lie in her breeze-rocked cradle, doing nothing except singing old songs my nursery lore to herself, or watching the birds, joint tenants, feed and entice their young ones to fly: or nestling with closed lids, half thinking, half dreaming, happier than words can express.
十月的一个下午，或者十一月初，一个清新的、水汪汪的下午，草皮和小路上，潮湿、枯萎的树叶沙沙作响，寒冷的蓝天被乌云遮住了一半，深灰色的飘带从西边迅速升起，预兆着大雨，我要求我的年轻女士放弃她的漫步，因为我确信会下雨。她拒绝了;我不情愿地穿上斗篷，带着雨伞陪她漫步到公园的尽头：她通常会表现出一种正式的散步，如果她情绪低落，当埃德加先生比平时更糟糕时，她总是如此，这是从他的坦白中无法得知的，但我和她都从他越来越沉默的表情和忧郁的表情中猜到了这一点。她悲伤地继续说下去：现在已经没有跑步或跳跃的机会了，尽管寒冷的风很可能会诱惑她去比赛。通常，从我眼睛的一侧，我可以看到她举起一只手，擦掉脸颊上的东西。我环顾四周，寻找转移她思绪的方法。路的一侧矗立着一座又高又崎岖的河岸，河岸上长着榛树和矮小的橡树，它们的根半裸在外，它们的保有权不确定：土壤太松，不适合后者；而它们的根部则半裸露在外。强风吹得几乎是水平的。夏天，凯瑟琳小姐喜欢沿着这些树干攀爬，坐在树枝上，在离地面二十英尺的地方荡来荡去。我对她的敏捷和她那颗轻松、孩子气的心感到满意，但每次我在这样的高度抓住她时，我仍然认为责骂是适当的，但这样她就知道没有必要下降。 从晚饭到喝茶，她都会躺在微风摇晃的摇篮里，除了给自己唱我儿时传说中的老歌，或者看着鸟儿，共同租户，喂食并引诱它们的幼鸟飞翔：或者闭上盖子，半躺着，什么都不做。想着，半梦半醒，幸福之情无法用言语来表达。

‘Look, Miss!’ I exclaimed, pointing to a nook under the roots of one twisted tree. ‘Winter is not here yet. There’s a little flower up yonder, the last bud from the multitude of bluebells that clouded those turf steps in July with a lilac mist. Will you clamber up, and pluck it to show to papa?’ Cathy stared a long time at the lonely blossom trembling in its earthy shelter, and replied, at length ‘No, I’ll not touch it: but it looks melancholy, does it not, Ellen?’
“看，小姐！”我指着一棵扭曲的树根下的一个角落喊道。 ‘冬天还没有到来。那边有一朵小花​​，是七月的众多风铃草中的最后一朵花蕾，这些风铃草在七月的草坪上笼罩着一层淡紫色的薄雾。你愿意爬上来，摘下它给爸爸看吗？”凯茜盯着那朵在泥土庇护所里颤抖的孤独花朵良久，最后回答道：“不，我不会碰它：但它看起来很忧郁，不是吗？”不是吗，艾伦？

‘Yes,’ I observed, ‘about as starved and suckless as you your cheeks are bloodless; let us take hold of hands and run. You’re so low, I daresay I shall keep up with you.’
“是的，”我说，“就像你一样饥饿无奶，你的脸颊毫无血色；让我们握紧双手，奔跑吧。你太低了，我敢说我会跟上你的。

‘No,’ she repeated, and continued sauntering on, pausing at intervals to muse over a bit of moss, or a tuft of blanched grass, or a fungus spreading its bright orange among the heaps of brown foliage; and, ever and anon, her hand was lifted to her averted face.
“不，”她重复了一遍，然后继续闲逛，时不时地停下来思考一点苔藓，或者一簇枯萎的草，或者在棕色树叶堆中传播其亮橙色的真菌；她的手时不时地被举到她偏向一边的脸上。

‘Catherine, why are you crying, love?’ I asked, approaching and putting my arm over her shoulder. ‘You mustn’t cry because papa has a cold; be thankful it is nothing worse.’
“凯瑟琳，亲爱的，你为什么哭？”我走近她，用手臂搭在她的肩膀上问道。 ‘你不可以因为爸爸感冒而哭泣；庆幸的是，没有什么比这更糟糕的了。

She now put no further restraint on her tears; her breath was stifled by sobs.
她现在不再克制自己的泪水了。她的呼吸因抽泣而窒息。

‘Oh, it will be something worse,’ she said. ‘And what shall I do when papa and you leave me, and I am by myself? I can’t forget your words, Ellen; they are always in my ear. How life will be changed, how dreary the world will be, when papa and you are dead.’
“哦，情况会更糟，”她说。 ‘当爸爸和你离开我，我独自一人时，我该怎么办？我无法忘记你的话，艾伦；它们总是在我耳边。当爸爸和你死后，生活将如何改变，世界将变得多么沉闷。

‘None can tell whether you won’t die before us,’ I replied. ‘It’s wrong to anticipate evil. We’ll hope there are years and years to come before any of us go: master is young, and I am strong, and hardly forty-five. My mother lived till eighty, a canty dame to the last. And suppose Mr. Linton I were spared till he saw sixty, that would be more years than you have counted, Miss. And would it not be foolish to mourn a calamity above twenty years beforehand?’
“没人知道你是否会先于我们死去。”我回答道。 ‘预见邪恶是错误的。我们希望在我们中的任何一个人离开之前还有很多年的时间：师父很年轻，而我很强壮，而且还不到四十五岁。我的母亲活到了八十岁，直到最后还是一个狡猾的女人。假设林惇先生我一直幸存到他六十岁，那将比你计算的还要长，小姐。提前二十年哀悼一场灾难不是愚蠢的吗？

‘But Aunt Isabella was younger than papa,’ she remarked, gazing up with timid hope to seek further consolation.
“但是伊莎贝拉姨妈比爸爸年轻，”她说道，同时小心翼翼地抬起头，希望寻求进一步的安慰。

‘Aunt Isabella had not you and me to nurse her,’ I replied. ‘She wasn’t as happy as Master: she hadn’t as much to live for. All you need do, is to wait well on your father, and cheer him by letting him see you cheerful; and avoid giving him anxiety on any subject: mind that, Cathy! I’ll not disguise but you might kill him if you were wild and reckless, and cherished a foolish, fanciful affection for the son of a person who would be glad to have him in his grave; and allowed him to discover that you fretted over the separation he has judged it expedient to make.’
“伊莎贝拉阿姨没有你和我来照顾她，”我回答道。 ‘她不像师父那么快乐：她没有那么多的生活目标。你需要做的就是好好侍候你的父亲，让他看到你高兴的样子，让他高兴起来；并避免让他在任何问题上感到焦虑：请注意，凯茜！我不会伪装，但如果你狂野而鲁莽，并对一个愿意把他送进坟墓的人的儿子怀有一种愚蠢、幻想的感情，你可能会杀了他；并让他发现你对他认为分开是有利的分离感到烦恼。

‘I fret about nothing on earth except papa’s illness,’ answered my companion. ‘I care for nothing in comparison with papa. And I’ll never never oh, never, while I have my senses, do an act or say a word to vex him. I love him better than myself, Ellen; and I know it by this: I pray every night that I may live after him; because I would rather be miserable than that he should be: that proves I love him better than myself.’
“除了爸爸的病，我什么都不担心。”我的同伴回答道。 “与爸爸相比，我什么都不在乎。当我还有理智时，我永远不会，永远不会，做任何事或说一句话来惹恼他。我爱他胜过爱我自己，艾伦；我是这样知道的：我每天晚上都祈祷我能在他之后生活；因为我宁愿痛苦，也不愿他应该痛苦：这证明我爱他胜过爱我自己。”

‘Good words,’ I replied. ‘But deeds must prove it also; and after he is well, remember you don’t forget resolutions formed in the hour of fear.’
“说得好。”我回答道。 ‘但行动也必须证明这一点；当他康复后，请记住，你不要忘记在恐惧时刻制定的决心。

As we talked, we neared a door that opened on the road; and my young lady, lightening into sunshine again, climbed up and seated herself on the top of the wall, reaching over to gather some hips that bloomed scarlet on the summit branches of the wild-rose trees shadowing the highway side: the lower fruit had disappeared, but only birds could touch the upper, except from Cathy’s present station. In stretching to pull them, her hat fell off; and as the door was locked, she proposed scrambling down to recover it. I bid her be cautious lest she got a fall, and she nimbly disappeared. But the return was no such easy matter: the stones were smooth and neatly cemented, and the rose-bushes and black-berry stragglers could yield no assistance in re-ascending. I, like a fool, didn’t recollect that, till I heard her laughing and exclaiming ‘Ellen! you’ll have to fetch the key, or else I must run round to the porter’s lodge. I can’t scale the ramparts on this side!’
当我们说话时，我们靠近一扇开在路上的门。我的年轻女士再次沐浴在阳光下，爬上墙顶坐下，伸手去摘一些在公路边阴影下的野玫瑰树顶枝上绽放着猩红色花朵的臀部：下面的果实有消失了，但除了凯茜目前所在的位置外，只有鸟类可以触摸鞋面。当她伸手去拉它们时，她的帽子掉了下来；由于门是锁着的，她提议爬下去把门打开。我吩咐她小心点，别摔倒，她就敏捷地消失了。但返回并不是一件容易的事：石头光滑且水泥整齐，玫瑰丛和黑莓散落的植物对重新上升没有任何帮助。我像个傻瓜一样不记得这件事，直到我听到她笑着喊道：“艾伦！”你必须去取钥匙，否则我必须跑到门房的小屋去。我无法攀登这边的城墙！”

‘Stay where you are,’ I answered; ‘I have my bundle of keys in my pocket: perhaps I may manage to open it; if not, I’ll go.’
“呆在原地，”我回答道。 “我的口袋里有我的一捆钥匙：也许我可以设法打开它；如果没有，我就走。

Catherine amused herself with dancing to and fro before the door, while I tried all the large keys in succession. I had applied the last, and found that none would do; so, repeating my desire that she would remain there, I was about to hurry home as fast as I could, when an approaching sound arrested me. It was the trot of a horse; Cathy’s dance stopped also.
凯瑟琳在门前跳来跳去自娱自乐，而我则连续尝试所有的大钥匙。我已经申请了最后一个，但发现没有一个可以做；因此，我重复着希望她留在那儿的愿望，正要尽快赶回家，这时一个接近的声音叫住了我。那是一匹马的小跑；凯茜的舞蹈也停止了。

‘Who is that?’ I whispered.
“那是谁？”我低声问道。

‘Ellen, I wish you could open the door,’ whispered back my companion, anxiously.
“艾伦，我希望你能打开门。”我的同伴焦急地低声说道。

‘Ho, Miss Linton!’ cried a deep voice (the rider’s), ‘I’m glad to meet you. Don’t be in haste to enter, for I have an explanation to ask and obtain.’
“哈，林惇小姐！”一个低沉的声音（骑手的）喊道，“我很高兴见到你。不要急于进入，因为我有一个解释要询问并获得。

‘I sha’n’t speak to you, Mr. Heathcliff,’ answered Catherine. ‘Papa says you are a wicked man, and you hate both him and me; and Ellen says the same.’
“我不会和你说话，希斯克利夫先生，”凯瑟琳回答。 ‘爸爸说你是个恶人，你既恨他又恨我；艾伦也这么说。

‘That is nothing to the purpose,’ said Heathcliff. (He it was.) ‘I don’t hate my son, I suppose; and it is concerning him that I demand your attention. Yes; you have cause to blush. Two or three months since, were you not in the habit of writing to Linton? making love in play, eh? You deserved, both of you, flogging for that! You especially, the elder; and less sensitive, as it turns out. I’ve got your letters, and if you give me any pertness I’ll send them to your father. I presume you grew weary of the amusement and dropped it, didn’t you? Well, you dropped Linton with it into a Slough of Despond. He was in earnest: in love, really. As true as I live, he’s dying for you; breaking his heart at your fickleness: not figuratively, but actually. Though Hareton has made him a standing jest for six weeks, and I have used more serious measures, and attempted to frighten him out of his idiotcy, he gets worse daily; and he’ll be under the sod before summer, unless you restore him!’
“这毫无意义，”希刺克厉夫说。 （确实是这样。）“我想，我并不恨我的儿子；我只是恨我的儿子而已。”我请你注意的是关于他的事。是的;你有理由脸红。两三个月以来，你没有给林惇写信的习惯吗？在玩耍中做爱，嗯？你们俩都应该为此受到鞭打！尤其是你，长辈；事实证明，而且不太敏感。我收到了你的信，如果你给我任何适当的信息，我会把它们寄给你的父亲。我想你已经厌倦了这种娱乐并放弃了它，不是吗？好吧，你把林惇连同它一起扔进了绝望沼泽。他是认真的：真的恋爱了。诚如我所言，他为你而死；你的善变让他心碎：不是象征性的，而是实际的。尽管哈里顿已经让他成为了六个星期以来的笑话，而我也采取了更严厉的措施，并试图吓唬他，让他不再愚蠢，但他的情况却一天比一天糟。夏天之前他就会被埋在草皮下，除非你把他救回来！”

‘How can you lie so glaringly to the poor child?’ I called from the inside. ‘Pray ride on! How can you deliberately get up such paltry falsehoods? Miss Cathy, I’ll knock the lock off with a stone: you won’t believe that vile nonsense. You can feel in yourself it is impossible that a person should die for love of a stranger.’
“你怎么能对这个可怜的孩子撒这么明显的谎？”我在里面喊道。 ‘请继续前进！你怎么能故意编造这种微不足道的谎言呢？凯茜小姐，我会用石头把锁敲掉：你不会相信这种卑鄙的废话。你内心可以感觉到一个人不可能因为爱一个陌生人而死。”

‘I was not aware there were eavesdroppers,’ muttered the detected villain. ‘Worthy Mrs. Dean, I like you, but I don’t like your double-dealing,’ he added aloud. ‘How could YOU lie so glaringly as to affirm I hated the ‘poor child’? and invent bugbear stories to terrify her from my door-stones? Catherine Linton (the very name warms me), my bonny lass, I shall be from home all this week; go and see if have not spoken truth: do, there’s a darling! Just imagine your father in my place, and Linton in yours; then think how you would value your careless lover if he refused to stir a step to comfort you, when your father himself entreated him; and don’t, from pure stupidity, fall into the same error. I swear, on my salvation, he’s going to his grave, and none but you can save him!’
“我不知道有窃听者，”被发现的恶棍嘀咕道。 “不愧是迪恩夫人，我喜欢你，但我不喜欢你的两面派，”他大声补充道。 “你怎么能如此明显地撒谎，断言我讨厌这个‘可怜的孩子’？”编造一些熊怪故事来吓唬她，让她不敢靠近我的门石？凯瑟琳·林顿（这个名字让我很温暖），我漂亮的姑娘，这周我都不在家。去看看有没有说实话：做，有一个亲爱的！想象一下你的父亲处于我的位置，林惇处于你的位置；然后想一想，如果你粗心的爱人在你父亲本人恳求他时拒绝采取任何措施来安慰你，你会如何评价他？不要因为纯粹的愚蠢而陷入同样的​​错误。我发誓，以我的救赎为证，他就要进坟墓了，除了你，没有人能救他！”

The lock gave way and I issued out.
锁开了，我出去了。

‘I swear Linton is dying,’ repeated Heathcliff, looking hard at me. ‘And grief and disappointment are hastening his death. Nelly, if you won’t let her go, you can walk over yourself. But I shall not return till this time next week; and I think your master himself would scarcely object to her visiting her cousin.’
“我发誓林惇快要死了，”希刺克厉夫重复道，目光死死地看着我。 “悲伤和失望正在加速他的死亡。耐莉，如果你不让她走，你可以自己走过去。但我要到下周这个时候才能回来；我想你的主人本人也不会反对她去拜访她的表弟。

‘Come in,’ said I, taking Cathy by the arm and half forcing her to re-enter; for she lingered, viewing with troubled eyes the features of the speaker, too stern to express his inward deceit.
“进来吧，”我拉着凯茜的胳膊，半强迫她重新进来。因为她徘徊着，用困惑的眼神看着说话者的表情，他太严厉了，无法表达他内心的欺骗。

He pushed his horse close, and, bending down, observed ‘Miss Catherine, I’ll own to you that I have little patience with Linton; and Hareton and Joseph have less. I’ll own that he’s with a harsh set. He pines for kindness, as well as love; and a kind word from you would be his best medicine. Don’t mind Mrs. Dean’s cruel cautions; but be generous, and contrive to see him. He dreams of you day and night, and cannot be persuaded that you don’t hate him, since you neither write nor call.’
他把马推近，弯下腰说道：“凯瑟琳小姐，我向你承认，我对林惇没有什么耐心；哈里顿和约瑟夫的则更少。我承认他的设定很严酷。他渴望仁慈，也渴望爱；你的一句善意的话将是他最好的良药。不要介意迪恩夫人的残酷警告；但要慷慨一些，设法去见他。他日夜梦见你，无法说服你不恨他，因为你既不写信也不打电话。

I closed the door, and rolled a stone to assist the loosened lock in holding it; and spreading my umbrella, I drew my charge underneath: for the rain began to drive through the moaning branches of the trees, and warned us to avoid delay. Our hurry prevented any comment on the encounter with Heathcliff, as we stretched towards home; but I divined instinctively that Catherine’s heart was clouded now in double darkness. Her features were so sad, they did not seem hers: she evidently regarded what she had heard as every syllable true.
我关上门，滚了一块石头来帮助松动的锁锁住门。我撑开雨伞，把自己的职责放在下面：因为雨开始穿过呻吟的树枝，警告我们不要耽误时间。当我们向家走去时，我们的匆忙阻止了对与希刺克厉夫的相遇发表任何评论。但我本能地猜测凯瑟琳的心现在笼罩在双重黑暗之中。她的表情是如此悲伤，看起来不像她自己：她显然认为她所听到的每一个音节都是真实的。

The master had retired to rest before we came in. Cathy stole to his room to inquire how he was; he had fallen asleep. She returned, and asked me to sit with her in the library. We took our tea together; and afterwards she lay down on the rug, and told me not to talk, for she was weary. I got a book, and pretended to read. As soon as she supposed me absorbed in my occupation, she recommenced her silent weeping: it appeared, at present, her favourite diversion. I suffered her to enjoy it a while; then I expostulated: deriding and ridiculing all Mr. Heathcliff’s assertions about his son, as if I were certain she would coincide. Alas! I hadn’t skill to counteract the effect his account had produced: it was just what he intended.
在我们进来之前，主人已经休息了。凯茜偷偷溜进他的房间，询问他的情况；他的情况很好。他已经睡着了。她回来了，并邀请我和她一起坐在图书馆里。我们一起喝茶；后来她躺在地毯上，告诉我不要说话，因为她很累。我拿了一本书，假装在看。当她以为我全神贯注于我的工作时，她又开始无声地哭泣：目前，这似乎是她最喜欢的消遣。我让她享受了一会儿。然后我提出规劝：嘲笑希刺克厉夫先生关于他儿子的所有断言，就好像我确信她会同意一样。唉!我没有能力抵消他的账户所产生的影响：这正是他的意图。

‘You may be right, Ellen,’ she answered; ‘but I shall never feel at ease till I know. And I must tell Linton it is not my fault that I don’t write, and convince him that I shall not change.’
“你可能是对的，艾伦，”她回答道。 ‘但在我知道之前我永远不会感到安心。我必须告诉林惇，我不写信不是我的错，并让他相信我不会改变。

What use were anger and protestations against her silly credulity? We parted that night hostile; but next day beheld me on the road to Wuthering Heights, by the side of my wilful young mistress’s pony. I couldn’t bear to witness her sorrow: to see her pale, dejected countenance, and heavy eyes: and I yielded, in the faint hope that Linton himself might prove, by his reception of us, how little of the tale was founded on fact.
对她愚蠢的轻信感到愤怒和抗议有什么用呢？那天晚上我们怀着敌意分手了；但第二天，我看到我在去呼啸山庄的路上，旁边是我任性的年轻女主人的小马。我无法忍受目睹她的悲伤：看到她苍白、沮丧的面容和沉重的眼睛：我屈服了，抱着微弱的希望，林惇本人可能会通过他对我们的接待来证明，这个故事的基础是多么的少。事实。

Chapter XXIII
第二十三章

THE rainy night had ushered in a misty morning half frost, half drizzle and temporary brooks crossed our path gurgling from the uplands. My feet were thoroughly wetted; I was cross and low; exactly the humour suited for making the most of these disagreeable things. We entered the farm-house by the kitchen way, to ascertain whether Mr. Heathcliff were really absent: because I put slight faith in his own affirmation.
雨夜迎来了雾蒙蒙的早晨，半霜半毛毛雨，小溪从高地潺潺流过我们的小路。我的脚彻底湿透了；我脾气暴躁，心情低落；正是这种幽默适合充分利用这些令人不快的事情。我们从厨房的路进入农舍，想确定希刺克厉夫先生是否真的不在：因为我对他自己的断言不太相信。

Joseph seemed sitting in a sort of elysium alone, beside a roaring fire; a quart of ale on the table near him, bristling with large pieces of toasted oat-cake; and his black, short pipe in his mouth. Catherine ran to the hearth to warm herself. I asked if the master was in? My question remained so long unanswered, that I thought the old man had grown deaf, and repeated it louder.
约瑟夫似乎独自一人坐在熊熊燃烧的炉火旁，仿佛置身于极乐世界。他旁边的桌子上放着一夸脱啤酒，里面摆满了大块的烤燕麦饼。以及他嘴里叼着的又黑又短的烟斗。凯瑟琳跑到壁炉边取暖。我问师傅在吗？我的问题太久没有得到解答，我以为老人已经聋了，于是更大声地重复了一遍。

‘Na ay!’ he snarled, or rather screamed through his nose. ‘Na ay! yah muh goa back whear yah coom frough.’
“不，是！”他咆哮着，或者更确切地说，通过鼻子尖叫。 ‘不，是啊！ yah muh goa 回来了，yah coom frough。

‘Joseph!’ cried a peevish voice, simultaneously with me, from the inner room. ‘How often am I to call you? There are only a few red ashes now. Joseph! come this moment.’
“约瑟夫！”一个脾气暴躁的声音与我同时喊道，从里面的房间里传来。 ‘我多久给你打电话一次？现在只剩下一些红色的灰烬了。约瑟夫！就现在吧。

Vigorous puffs, and a resolute stare into the grate, declared he had no ear for this appeal. The housekeeper and Hareton were invisible; one gone on an errand, and the other at his work, probably. We knew Linton’s tones, and entered.
猛烈的吸气和坚决的目光凝视着炉排，表明他对这种呼吁充耳不闻。管家和哈里顿都看不见了。一个出去办事了，另一个可能正在工作。我们听出了林惇的语气，就进去了。

‘Oh, I hope you’ll die in a garret, starved to death!’ said the boy, mistaking our approach for that of his negligent attendant.
“哦，我希望你会死在阁楼里，饿死！”男孩说，他把我们的做法误认为是他粗心的侍从的做法。

He stopped on observing his error: his cousin flew to him.
他停下来观察自己的错误：他的表弟飞向他。

‘Is that you, Miss Linton?’ he said, raising his head from the arm of the great chair, in which he reclined. ‘No don’t kiss me: it takes my breath. Dear me! Papa said you would call,’ continued he, after recovering a little from Catherine’s embrace; while she stood by looking very contrite. ‘Will you shut the door, if you please? you left it open; and those those DETESTABLE creatures won’t bring coals to the fire. It’s so cold!’
“是你吗，林惇小姐？”他从靠在椅子上的大椅子扶手上抬起头说道。 “不，不要吻我：它会夺走我的呼吸。”亲爱的我！爸爸说你会打电话来的，”他从凯瑟琳的怀抱中稍微恢复过来后继续说道。而她站在一旁，看上去非常悔恨。 “如果方便的话，可以关上门吗？你把它打开了；那些可憎的生物不会将煤炭带入火中。太冷了！'

I stirred up the cinders, and fetched a scuttleful myself. The invalid complained of being covered with ashes; but he had a tiresome cough, and looked feverish and ill, so I did not rebuke his temper.
我搅动了煤渣，自己也舀了一口。病人抱怨身上沾满了骨灰；但他咳嗽得很厉害，而且看上去发烧了，病得很厉害，所以我没有斥责他的脾气。

‘Well, Linton,’ murmured Catherine, when his corrugated brow relaxed, ‘are you glad to see me? Can I do you any good?’
“好吧，林顿，”凯瑟琳低声说道，当他皱起的眉头放松下来时，“你很高兴见到我吗？”我能为你做点什么吗？

‘Why didn’t you come before?’ he asked. ‘You should have come, instead of writing. It tired me dreadfully writing those long letters. I’d far rather have talked to you. Now, I can neither bear to talk, nor anything else. I wonder where Zillah is! Will you’ (looking at me) ‘step into the kitchen and see?’
“你为什么不先来？”他问。 “你应该来，而不是写信。写那些长信让我疲惫不堪。我宁愿和你谈谈。现在，我既不忍心说话，也不忍心做其他事。我想知道齐拉在哪里！你能”（看着我）“走进厨房看看吗？

I had received no thanks for my other service; and being unwilling to run to and fro at his behest, I replied ‘Nobody is out there but Joseph.’
我没有收到任何对我其他服务的感谢；我不愿意在他的要求下跑来跑去，于是回答说：“除了约瑟夫之外，没有人在外面。”

‘I want to drink,’ he exclaimed fretfully, turning away. ‘Zillah is constantly gadding off to Gimmerton since papa went: it’s miserable! And I’m obliged to come down here they resolved never to hear me up-stairs.’
“我想喝酒。”他焦急地喊道，转身走开。 “自从爸爸走了之后，齐拉就一直快步去吉默顿：太悲惨了！我不得不下来这里，他们决定永远不再听到我在楼上的声音。

‘Is your father attentive to you, Master Heathcliff?’ I asked, perceiving Catherine to be checked in her friendly advances.
“希刺克厉夫少爷，你的父亲对你很关心吗？”我问道，察觉到凯瑟琳的友好举动受到了限制。

‘Attentive? He makes them a little more attentive at least,’ he cried. ‘The wretches! Do you know, Miss Linton, that brute Hareton laughs at me! I hate him! indeed, I hate them all: they are odious beings.’
'细心？他至少让他们更加专心一点，”他喊道。 ‘这些可怜虫！林惇小姐，你知道吗，那个野蛮的哈里顿在嘲笑我！我讨厌他！事实上，我讨厌他们所有人：他们是可憎的存在。

Cathy began searching for some water; she lighted on a pitcher in the dresser, filled a tumbler, and brought it. He bid her add a spoonful of wine from a bottle on the table; and having swallowed a small portion, appeared more tranquil, and said she was very kind.
凯茜开始寻找水。她点燃梳妆台里的一个水罐，倒满一杯，然后端了过来。他让她从桌上的瓶子里加一勺酒；吞了一小口，显得平静了一些，说她很善良。

‘And are you glad to see me?’ asked she, reiterating her former question and pleased to detect the faint dawn of a smile.
“你很高兴见到我吗？”她问道，重申了之前的问题，并很高兴地发现了一丝微笑。

‘Yes, I am. It’s something new to hear a voice like yours!’ he replied. ‘But I have been vexed, because you wouldn’t come. And papa swore it was owing to me: he called me a pitiful, shuffling, worthless thing; and said you despised me; and if he had been in my place, he would be more the master of the Grange than your father by this time. But you don’t despise me, do you, Miss ?’
'我是。听到像你这样的声音真是新鲜事！”他回答道。 “但是我很烦恼，因为你不来。”爸爸发誓这都是我的功劳：他说我是一个可怜的、拖拖拉拉的、毫无价值的东西；还说你瞧不起我；如果他处在我的位置，此时他将比你的父亲更像是田庄的主人。但你不会瞧不起我吧，小姐？

‘I wish you would say Catherine, or Cathy,’ interrupted my young lady. ‘Despise you? No! Next to papa and Ellen, I love you better than anybody living. I don’t love Mr. Heathcliff, though; and I dare not come when he returns: will he stay away many days?’
“我希望你会说凯瑟琳，或者凯茜，”我的年轻女士打断道。 ‘鄙视你？不！除了爸爸和艾伦之外，我比任何活着的人都更爱你们。不过，我不爱希刺克厉夫先生；我不喜欢希刺克厉夫先生。他回来时我不敢来：他会离开很多天吗？

‘Not many,’ answered Linton; ‘but he goes on to the moors frequently, since the shooting season commenced; and you might spend an hour or two with me in his absence. Do say you will. I think I should not be peevish with you: you’d not provoke me, and you’d always be ready to help me, wouldn’t you?’
“不多，”林惇回答道。 “但自从狩猎季节开始以来，他经常去荒野；他不在的时候你可能会和我待一两个小时。一定要说你会的。我想我不应该对你发脾气：你不会激怒我，而且你总是愿意帮助我，不是吗？

‘Yes’ said Catherine, stroking his long soft hair: ‘if I could only get papa’s consent, I’d spend half my time with you. Pretty Linton! I wish you were my brother.’
“是的，”凯瑟琳说，抚摸着他柔软的长发：“如果我能得到爸爸的同意，我愿意花一半的时间和你在一起。”漂亮的林惇！我希望你是我的兄弟。

‘And then you would like me as well as your father?’ observed he, more cheerfully. ‘But papa says you would love me better than him and all the world, if you were my wife; so I’d rather you were that.’
“那你会像喜欢你父亲一样喜欢我吗？”他更加高兴地说道。 “但是爸爸说，如果你是我的妻子，你会比他和全世界更爱我；所以我宁愿你是那样的。

‘No, I should never love anybody better than papa,’ she returned gravely. ‘And people hate their wives, sometimes; but not their sisters and brothers: and if you were the latter, you would live with us, and papa would be as fond of you as he is of me.’
“不，我永远不会爱任何人胜过爸爸。”她严肃地回答道。 “人们有时会讨厌他们的妻子；但不是他们的兄弟姐妹：如果你是后者，你就会和我们住在一起，爸爸也会像爱我一样爱你。

Linton denied that people ever hated their wives; but Cathy affirmed they did, and, in her wisdom, instanced his own father’s aversion to her aunt. I endeavoured to stop her thoughtless tongue. I couldn’t succeed till everything she knew was out. Master Heathcliff, much irritated, asserted her relation was false.
林惇否认人们曾恨过自己的妻子。但凯茜肯定他们确实这么做了，并以她的智慧举例说明了他父亲对她姨妈的厌恶。我竭力阻止她漫不经心的舌头。在她知道的一切都出来之前我无法成功。希斯克利夫大师非常恼怒，断言她的关系是假的。

‘Papa told me; and papa does not tell falsehoods,’ she answered pertly.
‘爸爸告诉我的；爸爸是不会说假话的。”她直截了当地回答道。

‘MY papa scorns yours!’ cried Linton. ‘He calls him a sneaking fool.’
“我爸爸瞧不起你的！”林惇喊道。 “他称他为偷偷摸摸的傻瓜。”

‘Yours is a wicked man,’ retorted Catherine; ‘and you are very naughty to dare to repeat what he says. He must be wicked to have made Aunt Isabella leave him as she did.’
“你这个人是个邪恶的人，”凯瑟琳反驳道。 ‘而且你也太调皮了，竟然敢重复他说的话。他一定很邪恶，让伊莎贝拉姨妈像她那样离开了他。

‘She didn’t leave him,’ said the boy; ‘you sha’n’t contradict me.’
“她没有离开他，”男孩说。 “你不许反驳我。”

‘She did,’ cried my young lady.
“她做到了，”我的小姐喊道。

‘Well, I’ll tell you something!’ said Linton. ‘Your mother hated your father: now then.’
“好吧，我告诉你一件事！”林惇说。 “你母亲恨你父亲：现在就这样吧。”

‘Oh!’ exclaimed Catherine, too enraged to continue.
“哦！”凯瑟琳惊呼道，她太愤怒了，无法继续说下去。

‘And she loved mine,’ added he.
“她爱我的，”他补充道。

‘You little liar! I hate you now!’ she panted, and her face grew red with passion.
‘你这个小骗子！我现在恨你！”她气喘吁吁地说，她的脸因激动而变得通红。

‘She did! she did!’ sang Linton, sinking into the recess of his chair, and leaning back his head to enjoy the agitation of the other disputant, who stood behind.
'她做过！ “她做到了！”林惇唱道，他陷入了椅子的凹处，头向后靠，享受着站在后面的另一位争论者的激动。

‘Hush, Master Heathcliff!’ I said; ‘that’s your father’s tale, too, I suppose.’
“嘘，希刺克厉夫少爷！”我说道。 “我想这也是你父亲的故事。”

‘It isn’t: you hold your tongue!’ he answered. ‘She did, she did, Catherine! she did, she did!’
“不是这样的：你管住你的嘴吧！”他回答道。 “她做到了，她做到了，凯瑟琳！她做到了，她做到了！

Cathy, beside herself, gave the chair a violent push, and caused him to fall against one arm. He was immediately seized by a suffocating cough that soon ended his triumph. It lasted so long that it frightened even me. As to his cousin, she wept with all her might, aghast at the mischief she had done: though she said nothing. I held him till the fit exhausted itself. Then he thrust me away, and leant his head down silently. Catherine quelled her lamentations also, took a seat opposite, and looked solemnly into the fire.
凯茜欣喜若狂，用力推了一把椅子，结果他摔倒在一只手臂上。他立即感到一阵令人窒息的咳嗽，很快就结束了他的胜利。持续的时间太长了，连我自己都感到害怕。至于他的表弟，她拼命哭泣，对自己所做的恶作剧感到震惊，但她什么也没说。我抱着他直到痉挛消失。然后他把我推开，低下头，一声不吭。凯瑟琳也压下悲痛，在对面坐下，严肃地望着炉火。

‘How do you feel now, Master Heathcliff?’ I inquired, after waiting ten minutes.
“希刺克厉夫少爷，你现在感觉怎么样？”等了十分钟后我问道。

‘I wish SHE felt as I do,’ he replied: ‘spiteful, cruel thing! Hareton never touches me: he never struck me in his life. And I was better to-day: and there ‘ his voice died in a whimper.
“我希望她有和我一样的感觉，”他回答道：“这是充满恶意、残忍的事情！”哈里顿从未碰过我：他一生中从未碰过我。今天我好多了：他的声音在呜咽中消失了。

‘I didn’t strike you!’ muttered Cathy, chewing her lip to prevent another burst of emotion.
“我没有打你！”凯茜嘟囔着，咬着嘴唇以免再次爆发情绪。

He sighed and moaned like one under great suffering, and kept it up for a quarter of an hour; on purpose to distress his cousin apparently, for whenever he caught a stifled sob from her he put renewed pain and pathos into the inflexions of his voice.
他像遭受巨大痛苦的人一样叹息、呻吟，持续了一刻钟。显然是故意让他的表弟伤心，因为每当他听到她压抑的抽泣声，他就会在声音的变化中注入新的痛苦和悲伤。

‘I’m sorry I hurt you, Linton,’ she said at length, racked beyond endurance. ‘But I couldn’t have been hurt by that little push, and I had no idea that you could, either: you’re not much, are you, Linton? Don’t let me go home thinking I’ve done you harm. Answer! speak to me.’
“林惇，我很抱歉我伤害了你。”她最后说道，语气中充满了难以忍受的痛苦。 “但是我不会因为那小小的推力而受伤，而且我也不知道你会受伤：你并不厉害，是吗，林惇？别让我回家以为我伤害了你。回答！跟我讲话。'

‘I can’t speak to you,’ he murmured; ‘you’ve hurt me so that I shall lie awake all night choking with this cough. If you had it you’d know what it was; but YOU’LL be comfortably asleep while I’m in agony, and nobody near me. I wonder how you would like to pass those fearful nights!’ And he began to wail aloud, for very pity of himself.
“我不能和你说话，”他低声说道。 ‘你伤害了我，让我因咳嗽而整夜无法入睡。如果你拥有它，你就会知道它是什么；如果你拥有它，你就会知道它是什么。但当我痛苦时，你会舒服地睡着，而且没有人靠近我。我不知道你想如何度过那些可怕的夜晚！”他开始大声哭泣，因为自己非常可怜。

‘Since you are in the habit of passing dreadful nights,’ I said, ‘it won’t be Miss who spoils your ease: you’d be the same had she never come. However, she shall not disturb you again; and perhaps you’ll get quieter when we leave you.’
“既然你习惯于度过可怕的夜晚，”我说，“小姐就不会破坏你的安逸：如果她从未来过，你也会一样。”不过，她不会再打扰你了；当我们离开你时，也许你会变得更安静。

‘Must I go?’ asked Catherine dolefully, bending over him. ‘Do you want me to go, Linton?’
“我必须走吗？”凯瑟琳弯下腰，悲伤地问道。 “你想让我走吗，林惇？”

‘You can’t alter what you’ve done,’ he replied pettishly, shrinking from her, ‘unless you alter it for the worse by teasing me into a fever.’
“你无法改变你所做的事，”他气愤地回答，从她面前退缩，“除非你把它弄得更糟，逗我发烧。”

‘Well, then, I must go?’ she repeated.
“那么，我必须走了吗？”她重复道。

‘Let me alone, at least,’ said he; ‘I can’t bear your talking.’
“至少别打扰我，”他说。 “我无法忍受你说话。”

She lingered, and resisted my persuasions to departure a tiresome while; but as he neither looked up nor spoke, she finally made a movement to the door, and I followed. We were recalled by a scream. Linton had slid from his seat on to the hearthstone, and lay writhing in the mere perverseness of an indulged plague of a child, determined to be as grievous and harassing as it can. I thoroughly gauged his disposition from his behaviour, and saw at once it would be folly to attempt humouring him. Not so my companion: she ran back in terror, knelt down, and cried, and soothed, and entreated, till he grew quiet from lack of breath: by no means from compunction at distressing her.
她在我的劝说下逗留了一会儿，并拒绝了离开。但由于他既没有抬头，也没有说话，她最终向门口走去，我也跟着走了。我们被一声尖叫召回。林惇从座位上滑到了炉边，躺在床上翻滚着，就像一个孩子沉迷于瘟疫一样，决心要尽可能地使人感到悲伤和骚扰。我从他的行为中彻底了解了他的性格，并立即意识到试图迁就他是愚蠢的。我的同伴则不然：她惊恐地跑回来，跪下，哭泣，安抚，恳求，直到他因呼吸困难而安静下来：绝不是因为让她痛苦而感到内疚。

‘I shall lift him on to the settle,’ I said, ‘and he may roll about as he pleases: we can’t stop to watch him. I hope you are satisfied, Miss Cathy, that you are not the person to benefit him; and that his condition of health is not occasioned by attachment to you. Now, then, there he is! Come away: as soon as he knows there is nobody by to care for his nonsense, he’ll be glad to lie still.’
“我会把他抱到长椅上，”我说，“他可以随心所欲地滚来滚去：我们不能停下来看着他。”凯茜小姐，我希望你对自己不是那个对他有利的人感到满意；并且他的健康状况并不是因为对你的依恋而引起的。那么现在，他就在那里！走开吧：一旦他知道没人关心他的胡言乱语，他就会很高兴静静地躺着。

She placed a cushion under his head, and offered him some water; he rejected the latter, and tossed uneasily on the former, as if it were a stone or a block of wood. She tried to put it more comfortably.
她在他的头下放了一个垫子，并给了他一些水。他拒绝了后者，不安地把前者扔在身上，仿佛它是一块石头或一块木头。她试图说得更舒服一些。

‘I can’t do with that,’ he said; ‘it’s not high enough.’
“我不能这么做，”他说。 “还不够高。”

Catherine brought another to lay above it.
凯瑟琳又带来了另一个放在上面。

‘That’s too high,’ murmured the provoking thing.
“这太高了，”那个令人恼火的东西低声说道。

‘How must I arrange it, then?’ she asked despairingly.
“那我该怎么安排呢？”她绝望地问道。

He twined himself up to her, as she half knelt by the settle, and converted her shoulder into a support.
当她半跪在长椅旁时，他紧紧地搂住她，把她的肩膀变成了支撑。

‘No, that won’t do,’ I said. ‘You’ll be content with the cushion, Master Heathcliff. Miss has wasted too much time on you already: we cannot remain five minutes longer.’
“不，那不行，”我说。 “你会对这个垫子感到满意的，希刺克厉夫少爷。小姐已经在你身上浪费了太多时间：我们不能再多待五分钟了。”

‘Yes, yes, we can!’ replied Cathy. ‘He’s good and patient now. He’s beginning to think I shall have far greater misery than he will to-night, if I believe he is the worse for my visit: and then I dare not come again. Tell the truth about it, Linton; for I musn’t come, if I have hurt you.’
“是的，是的，我们可以！”凯茜回答道。 “他现在很好而且很有耐心。他开始认为，如果我相信他因我的来访而变得更糟，那么今晚我将遭受比他更大的痛苦：然后我就不敢再来了。说实话吧，林惇；因为如果我伤害了你，我就不能来。

‘You must come, to cure me,’ he answered. ‘You ought to come, because you have hurt me: you know you have extremely! I was not as ill when you entered as I am at present was I?’
“你必须来，来治愈我，”他回答道。 ‘你应该来，因为你伤害了我：你知道你伤害了我！你进来时我的病不像现在那么严重，不是吗？

‘But you’ve made yourself ill by crying and being in a passion. I didn’t do it all,’ said his cousin. ‘However, we’ll be friends now. And you want me: you would wish to see me sometimes, really?’
“但是你因哭泣和激情而让自己生病了。我没有做这一切，”他的表弟说。 ‘不过，我们现在就是朋友了。你想要我：你有时想见我，真的吗？

‘I told you I did,’ he replied impatiently. ‘Sit on the settle and let me lean on your knee. That’s as mamma used to do, whole afternoons together. Sit quite still and don’t talk: but you may sing a song, if you can sing; or you may say a nice long interesting ballad one of those you promised to teach me; or a story. I’d rather have a ballad, though: begin.’
“我告诉过你我做到了，”他不耐烦地回答道。 “坐在长椅上，让我靠在你的膝盖上。就像妈妈以前那样，整个下午都在一起。静静地坐着，不要说话：但如果你会唱歌，你可以唱首歌；或者你可以说一首好听又长又有趣的歌谣，其中一首是你答应教我的；或一个故事。不过，我宁愿听一首民谣：开始吧。

Catherine repeated the longest she could remember. The employment pleased both mightily. Linton would have another, and after that another, notwithstanding my strenuous objections; and so they went on until the clock struck twelve, and we heard Hareton in the court, returning for his dinner.
凯瑟琳重复了她记忆中最长的一句话。这项工作让两人都非常高兴。尽管我极力反对，林惇还是会再做一次，然后再做一次。他们就这样继续前行，直到时钟敲响十二点，我们听到哈里顿在法庭上回来吃晚饭。

‘And to-morrow, Catherine, will you be here to-morrow?’ asked young Heathcliff, holding her frock as she rose reluctantly.
“明天，凯瑟琳，你明天会在这里吗？”年轻的希刺克厉夫问道，她不情愿地站起来，手里拿着她的连衣裙。

‘No,’ I answered, ‘nor next day neither.’ She, however, gave a different response evidently, for his forehead cleared as she stooped and whispered in his ear.
“不，”我回答，“第二天也不行。”然而，她显然给出了不同的回答，因为当她弯下腰在他耳边低语时，他的额头变得清晰起来。

‘You won’t go to-morrow, recollect, Miss!’ I commenced, when we were out of the house. ‘You are not dreaming of it, are you?’
“记住，小姐，明天你不会去！”当我们走出家门时，我开始说道。 “你不会是在做梦吧？”

She smiled.
她笑了。

‘Oh, I’ll take good care,’ I continued: ‘I’ll have that lock mended, and you can escape by no way else.’
“哦，我会好好照顾的，”我继续说道，“我会把那把锁修好，你就没有别的办法逃走了。”

‘I can get over the wall,’ she said laughing. ‘The Grange is not a prison, Ellen, and you are not my gaoler. And besides, I’m almost seventeen: I’m a woman. And I’m certain Linton would recover quickly if he had me to look after him. I’m older than he is, you know, and wiser: less childish, am I not? And he’ll soon do as I direct him, with some slight coaxing. He’s a pretty little darling when he’s good. I’d make such a pet of him, if he were mine. We should, never quarrel, should we after we were used to each other? Don’t you like him, Ellen?’
“我可以翻墙，”她笑着说。 “艾伦，田庄不是监狱，你也不是我的狱卒。而且，我快十七岁了：我是个女人。我确信，如果林惇有我照顾的话，他会很快康复。你知道，我比他年长，也更聪明：不那么幼稚，不是吗？经过一些轻微的哄骗，他很快就会按照我的指示去做。当他好的时候，他是一个非常可爱的小宝贝。如果他是我的，我会把他当成宠物。我们不应该，永远不吵架，是不是应该等习惯了之后才吵架呢？你不喜欢他吗，艾伦？

‘Like him!’ I exclaimed. ‘The worst-tempered bit of a sickly slip that ever struggled into its teens. Happily, as Mr. Heathcliff conjectured, he’ll not win twenty. I doubt whether he’ll see spring, indeed. And small loss to his family whenever he drops off. And lucky it is for us that his father took him: the kinder he was treated, the more tedious and selfish he’d be. I’m glad you have no chance of having him for a husband, Miss Catherine.’
“就像他一样！”我喊道。 “这是一个在青少年时期一直挣扎着的病态失态中脾气最坏的一点。幸运的是，正如希刺克厉夫先生所推测的那样，他不会赢得二十个。我怀疑他是否真的能看到春天。每当他下车时，他的家人都会受到小小的损失。对我们来说幸运的是，他的父亲收留了他：他受到的对待越友善，他就会变得越乏味和自私。我很高兴你没有机会娶他为丈夫，凯瑟琳小姐。

My companion waxed serious at hearing this speech. To speak of his death so regardlessly wounded her feelings.
我的同伴听了这番讲话，表情变得严肃起来。如此不顾一切地谈论他的死伤害了她的感情。

‘He’s younger than I,’ she answered, after a protracted pause of meditation, ‘and he ought to live the longest: he will he must live as long as I do. He’s as strong now as when he first came into the north; I’m positive of that. It’s only a cold that ails him, the same as papa has. You say papa will get better, and why shouldn’t he?’
“他比我年轻，”经过长时间的沉思，她回答道，“他应该活得最长：他愿意，他必须活得和我一样长。”他现在的实力和刚来北方时一样强；我对此持肯定态度。他只是感冒了，和爸爸一样。你说爸爸会好起来的，他为什么不可以呢？

‘Well, well,’ I cried, ‘after all, we needn’t trouble ourselves; for listen, Miss, and mind, I’ll keep my word, if you attempt going to Wuthering Heights again, with or without me, I shall inform Mr. Linton, and, unless he allow it, the intimacy with your cousin must not be revived.’
“好吧，好吧，”我喊道，“毕竟，我们不必自找麻烦；听着，小姐，请注意，我会遵守诺言，如果你试图再次去呼啸山庄，无论有没有我，我都会通知林惇先生，除非他允许，否则与你表弟的亲密关系不得复活吧。

‘It has been revived,’ muttered Cathy, sulkily.
“它又复活了。”凯茜阴沉地嘀咕道。

‘Must not be continued, then,’ I said.
“那么就不能再继续下去了，”我说。

‘We’ll see,’ was her reply, and she set off at a gallop, leaving me to toil in the rear.
“我们拭目以待吧。”她回答道，然后她就疾驰而去，留下我在后面辛苦劳作。

We both reached home before our dinner-time; my master supposed we had been wandering through the park, and therefore he demanded no explanation of our absence. As soon as I entered I hastened to change my soaked shoes and stockings; but sitting such awhile at the Heights had done the mischief. On the succeeding morning I was laid up, and during three weeks I remained incapacitated for attending to my duties: a calamity never experienced prior to that period, and never, I am thankful to say, since.
我们都在晚餐时间之前回到家。我的主人以为我们是在公园里闲逛，因此他没有要求我们解释我们为何缺席。我一进去就赶紧换掉湿透的鞋子和袜子。但在高地坐了这么久，就造成了祸害。第二天早上，我卧床不起，在三周的时间里，我仍然无法履行自己的职责：这是在那段时间之前从未经历过的灾难，我很庆幸地说，自那以后也从未经历过。

My little mistress behaved like an angel in coming to wait on me, and cheer my solitude; the confinement brought me exceedingly low. It is wearisome, to a stirring active body: but few have slighter reasons for complaint than I had. The moment Catherine left Mr. Linton’s room she appeared at my bedside. Her day was divided between us; no amusement usurped a minute: she neglected her meals, her studies, and her play; and she was the fondest nurse that ever watched. She must have had a warm heart, when she loved her father so, to give so much to me. I said her days were divided between us; but the master retired early, and I generally needed nothing after six o’clock, thus the evening was her own. Poor thing! I never considered what she did with herself after tea. And though frequently, when she looked in to bid me good-night, I remarked a fresh colour in her cheeks and a pinkness over her slender fingers, instead of fancying the line borrowed from a cold ride across the moors, I laid it to the charge of a hot fire in the library.
我的小女主人就像天使一样来伺候我，为我的孤独带来欢乐。禁闭使我的情绪非常低落。对于一个激动人心的活跃身体来说，这是令人厌倦的：但很少有人比我有更轻微的抱怨理由。凯瑟琳一离开林惇先生的房间，就出现在我的床边。她的一天由我们俩分配。没有一分钟的娱乐被侵占：她忽略了吃饭、学习和玩耍。她是有史以来最可爱的护士。当她如此爱她的父亲时，她一定有一颗温暖的心，为我付出了这么多。我说她的日子是由我们分开的；但主人休息得很早，我一般六点以后就不需要什么了，所以晚上是她自己的。可怜的东西！我从来没有考虑过她喝完茶后会做什么。尽管经常，当她向我道晚安时，我注意到她的脸颊上有一种清新的颜色，她纤细的手指上有一种粉红色，我没有想象从穿越荒原的寒冷骑行中借来的线条，而是把它放在了负责图书馆里的大火。

Chapter XXIV
第二十四章

AT the close of three weeks I was able to quit my chamber and move about the house. And on the first occasion of my sitting up in the evening I asked Catherine to read to me, because my eyes were weak. We were in the library, the master having gone to bed: she consented, rather unwillingly, I fancied; and imagining my sort of books did not suit her, I bid her please herself in the choice of what she perused. She selected one of her own favourites, and got forward steadily about an hour; then came frequent questions.
三个星期结束后，我可以离开我的房间，在房子里走动了。当我晚上第一次坐起来时，我请凯瑟琳读给我听，因为我的眼睛很弱。我们在图书馆里，主人已经上床睡觉了：我想她同意了，但相当不情愿。想象我的书不适合她，我请她随心所欲地选择她读的书。她选择了自己最喜欢的一首，然后稳步前进了大约一个小时。然后是频繁的问题。

‘Ellen, are not you tired? Hadn’t you better lie down now? You’ll be sick, keeping up so long, Ellen.’
‘艾伦，你不累吗？你现在不是最好躺下吗？坚持这么久你会生病的，艾伦。

‘No, no, dear, I’m not tired,’ I returned, continually.
“不，不，亲爱的，我不累。”我不断地回答。

Perceiving me immovable, she essayed another method of showing her disrelish for her occupation. It changed to yawning, and stretching, and -
看到我不动声色，她想出了另一种方式来表达她对自己职业的厌恶。它变成了打哈欠、伸懒腰，然后——

‘Ellen, I’m tired.’
“艾伦，我累了。”

‘Give over then and talk,’ I answered.
“那就放弃吧，谈谈吧。”我回答道。

That was worse: she fretted and sighed, and looked at her watch till eight, and finally went to her room, completely overdone with sleep; judging by her peevish, heavy look, and the constant rubbing she inflicted on her eyes. The following night she seemed more impatient still; and on the third from recovering my company she complained of a headache, and left me. I thought her conduct odd; and having remained alone a long while, I resolved on going and inquiring whether she were better, and asking her to come and lie on the sofa, instead of up-stairs in the dark. No Catherine could I discover up-stairs, and none below. The servants affirmed they had not seen her. I listened at Mr. Edgar’s door; all was silence. I returned to her apartment, extinguished my candle, and seated myself in the window.
更糟糕的是：她烦躁地叹了口气，看了看表，直到八点，最后才回到自己的房间，睡得太熟了。从她暴躁、沉重的表情以及不断揉眼睛来看。第二天晚上，她似乎更加不耐烦了。第三次恢复我的陪伴后，她抱怨头痛，然后离开了我。我觉得她的行为很奇怪；独自一人呆了很长一段时间，我决定去询问她是否好些，并请她过来躺在沙发上，而不是在黑暗中上楼。我在楼上找不到凯瑟琳，在楼下也找不到。仆人们确认他们没有看到她。我在埃德加先生的门口听着。一切一片寂静。我回到她的公寓，熄灭了蜡烛，坐在窗边。

The moon shone bright; a sprinkling of snow covered the ground, and I reflected that she might, possibly, have taken it into her head to walk about the garden, for refreshment. I did detect a figure creeping along the inner fence of the park; but it was not my young mistress: on its emerging into the light, I recognised one of the grooms. He stood a considerable period, viewing the carriage-road through the grounds; then started off at a brisk pace, as if he had detected something, and reappeared presently, leading Miss’s pony; and there she was, just dismounted, and walking by its side. The man took his charge stealthily across the grass towards the stable. Cathy entered by the casement-window of the drawing-room, and glided noiselessly up to where I awaited her. She put the door gently too, slipped off her snowy shoes, untied her hat, and was proceeding, unconscious of my espionage, to lay aside her mantle, when I suddenly rose and revealed myself. The surprise petrified her an instant: she uttered an inarticulate exclamation, and stood fixed.
月光明亮；地面上洒满了雪花，我想，她可能是想在花园里散步，以恢复活力。我确实发现了一个人影沿着公园的内栅栏爬行；但这不是我年轻的情妇：当它出现在光线中时，我认出了其中一位新郎。他站了相当长一段时间，透过庭院观察马路。然后他迈着轻快的步伐出发了，仿佛发现了什么，不久又牵着小姐的小马出现了。她就在那里，刚刚下马，走在它的旁边。那人悄悄地穿过草地，朝马厩走去。凯茜从客厅的平开窗进来，悄无声息地走到我等她的地方。她也轻轻关上门，脱下雪鞋，解开帽子，正要脱下斗篷，没有意识到我的间谍活动，这时我突然起身现身。这一惊讶让她顿时惊呆了：她发出一声含糊的感叹，站定了。

‘My dear Miss Catherine,’ I began, too vividly impressed by her recent kindness to break into a scold, ‘where have you been riding out at this hour? And why should you try to deceive me by telling a tale? Where have you been? Speak!’
“我亲爱的凯瑟琳小姐，”我开始说道，她最近的好意给我留下了深刻的印象，没有责骂她，“这个时候你骑马去哪儿了？你为什么要试图通过讲故事来欺骗我？你去哪儿了？说话！'

‘To the bottom of the park,’ she stammered. ‘I didn’t tell a tale.’
“到公园的尽头，”她结结巴巴地说。 “我没有讲故事。”

‘And nowhere else?’ I demanded.
“还有其他地方吗？”我问道。

‘No,’ was the muttered reply.
“不，”他低声回答。

‘Oh, Catherine!’ I cried, sorrowfully. ‘You know you have been doing wrong, or you wouldn’t be driven to uttering an untruth to me. That does grieve me. I’d rather be three months ill, than hear you frame a deliberate lie.’
“哦，凯瑟琳！”我悲伤地喊道。 ‘你知道你一直做错了，否则你不会被迫对我说谎。这确实让我伤心。我宁愿生病三个月，也不愿听你故意编造谎言。”

She sprang forward, and bursting into tears, threw her arms round my neck.
她跳上前去，泪流满面，用双臂搂住我的脖子。

‘Well, Ellen, I’m so afraid of you being angry,’ she said. ‘Promise not to be angry, and you shall know the very truth: I hate to hide it.’
“好吧，艾伦，我很害怕你生气，”她说。 “答应我不要生气，你就会知道真相：我讨厌隐瞒它。”

We sat down in the window-seat; I assured her I would not scold, whatever her secret might be, and I guessed it, of course; so she commenced -
我们坐在靠窗的座位上。我向她保证，无论她的秘密是什么，我都不会责骂她，当然，我也猜到了。于是她开始——

‘I’ve been to Wuthering Heights, Ellen, and I’ve never missed going a day since you fell ill; except thrice before, and twice after you left your room. I gave Michael books and pictures to prepare Minny every evening, and to put her back in the stable: you mustn’t scold him either, mind. I was at the Heights by half-past six, and generally stayed till half-past eight, and then galloped home. It was not to amuse myself that I went: I was often wretched all the time. Now and then I was happy: once in a week perhaps. At first, I expected there would be sad work persuading you to let me keep my word to Linton: for I had engaged to call again next day, when we quitted him; but, as you stayed up-stairs on the morrow, I escaped that trouble. While Michael was refastening the lock of the park door in the afternoon, I got possession of the key, and told him how my cousin wished me to visit him, because he was sick, and couldn’t come to the Grange; and how papa would object to my going: and then I negotiated with him about the pony. He is fond of reading, and he thinks of leaving soon to get married; so he offered, if I would lend him books out of the library, to do what I wished: but I preferred giving him my own, and that satisfied him better.
“艾伦，我去过呼啸山庄，自从你生病以来，我从来没有缺席过一天。除了您离开房间之前的三次和离开房间后的两次。我每天晚上都给迈克尔书籍和图片，让米妮做好准备，并把她放回马厩：注意，你也不能骂他。我六点半就到了高地，通常待到八点半，然后就骑马回家。我去并不是为了自娱自乐：我常常很不幸。有时我很高兴：也许一周一次。起初，我以为说服你让我信守对林惇的诺言会是一件令人悲伤的工作：因为我已经约好第二天再打电话，当我们离开他时；但是，当你第二天留在楼上时，我就摆脱了这个麻烦。下午迈克尔重新锁上公园门的锁时，我拿到了钥匙，并告诉他我的表弟多么希望我去拜访他，因为他病了，不能来农庄；以及爸爸会如何反对我去：然后我和他就小马的事情进行了谈判。他喜欢读书，他想很快就结婚；所以他提出，如果我愿意从图书馆借书给他，我就可以做我想做的事：但我更愿意把我自己的书给他，这让他更满意。

‘On my second visit Linton seemed in lively spirits; and Zillah (that is their housekeeper) made us a clean room and a good fire, and told us that, as Joseph was out at a prayer-meeting and Hareton Earnshaw was off with his dogs robbing our woods of pheasants, as I heard afterwards we might do what we liked. She brought me some warm wine and gingerbread, and appeared exceedingly goodnatured, and Linton sat in the arm-chair, and I in the little rocking chair on the hearth-stone, and we laughed and talked so merrily, and found so much to say: we planned where we would go, and what we would do in summer. I needn’t repeat that, because you would call it silly.
“我第二次来访时，林惇看上去精神抖擞；齐拉（他们的管家）给我们准备了一间干净的房间，生了一堆火，并告诉我们，当约瑟夫出去参加祈祷会时，哈里顿·恩肖带着他的狗去抢劫我们树林里的野鸡，正如我后来听到的那样我们可以做我们喜欢做的事。她给我带来了一些热酒和姜饼，显得非常和善，林惇坐在扶手椅上，我坐在炉边的小摇椅上，我们笑得很开心，有很多话要说。 ：我们计划了夏天要去哪里、做什么。我不需要重复这一点，因为你会说它很愚蠢。

‘One time, however, we were near quarrelling. He said the pleasantest manner of spending a hot July day was lying from morning till evening on a bank of heath in the middle of the moors, with the bees humming dreamily about among the bloom, and the larks singing high up overhead, and the blue sky and bright sun shining steadily and cloudlessly. That was his most perfect idea of heaven’s happiness: mine was rocking in a rustling green tree, with a west wind blowing, and bright white clouds flitting rapidly above; and not only larks, but throstles, and blackbirds, and linnets, and cuckoos pouring out music on every side, and the moors seen at a distance, broken into cool dusky dells; but close by great swells of long grass undulating in waves to the breeze; and woods and sounding water, and the whole world awake and wild with joy. He wanted all to lie in an ecstasy of peace; I wanted all to sparkle and dance in a glorious jubilee. I said his heaven would be only half alive; and he said mine would be drunk: I said I should fall asleep in his; and he said he could not breathe in mine, and began to grow very snappish. At last, we agreed to try both, as soon as the right weather came; and then we kissed each other and were friends.
“然而，有一次我们差点吵起来。他说，度过炎热的七月一天最愉快的方式就是从早到晚躺在荒原中央的石南岸上，蜜蜂在花丛中梦幻般地嗡嗡作响，云雀在头顶高高歌唱，蓝色的天空天空和明亮的阳光稳定地照耀着，万里无云。这就是他对天堂幸福的最完美的想象：我的幸福在一棵沙沙作响的绿树上摇摆，西风吹过，明亮的白云在上面飞快地掠过；不仅有百灵鸟，还有画眉鸟、黑鸫、红雀和杜鹃，它们在四面八方发出音乐，远处可见荒原，分成凉爽的昏暗的山谷；但附近有一大片高高的草丛，随着微风而起伏。还有树林和潺潺流水，整个世界都苏醒了，充满了欢乐。他希望所有人都沉浸在平静的狂喜之中。我希望所有人都能在光荣的禧年中闪闪发光、翩翩起舞。我说他的天堂只是半死不活；他说我的会喝醉：我说我会在他的里睡着；他说他无法呼吸我的呼吸，并且开始变得非常暴躁。最后，我们同意一旦天气合适就两者都尝试一下。然后我们互相亲吻并成为朋友。

‘After sitting still an hour, I looked at the great room with its smooth uncarpeted floor, and thought how nice it would be to play in, if we removed the table; and I asked Linton to call Zillah in to help us, and we’d have a game at blindman’s-buff; she should try to catch us: you used to, you know, Ellen. He wouldn’t: there was no pleasure in it, he said; but he consented to play at ball with me. We found two in a cupboard, among a heap of old toys, tops, and hoops, and battledores and shuttlecocks. One was marked C., and the other H.; I wished to have the C., because that stood for Catherine, and the H. might be for Heathcliff, his name; but the bran came out of H., and Linton didn’t like it. I beat him constantly: and he got cross again, and coughed, and returned to his chair. That night, though, he easily recovered his good humour: he was charmed with two or three pretty songs YOUR songs, Ellen; and when I was obliged to go, he begged and entreated me to come the following evening; and I promised. Minny and I went flying home as light as air; and I dreamt of Wuthering Heights and my sweet, darling cousin, till morning.
“静静地坐了一个小时后，我看着这个大房间，地板光滑，没有铺地毯，心想，如果我们把桌子移走，在里面玩该多好啊！”我让林惇把齐拉叫来帮助我们，我们就玩一场盲人游戏；她应该设法抓住我们：你知道，艾伦，你过去常常这样做。他不会：他说这没有什么乐趣；但他同意和我一起打球。我们在橱柜里发现了两个，中间有一堆旧玩具、陀螺、篮圈、羽毛球和羽毛球。一个标记为 C.，另一个标记为 H.；我希望有 C.，因为它代表凯瑟琳，而 H. 可能代表希刺克厉夫，他的名字；但麸皮是从 H. 出来的，林惇不喜欢它。我不断地打他，他又生气了，咳嗽了一声，然后又回到了椅子上。然而，那天晚上，他很容易恢复了良好的幽默感：他被两三首优美的歌曲迷住了，你的歌，艾伦；当我不得不去时，他恳求我第二天晚上来。我答应了。米妮和我像空气一样轻盈地飞回家；我一直梦见呼啸山庄和我亲爱的表弟，直到早上。

‘On the morrow I was sad; partly because you were poorly, and partly that I wished my father knew, and approved of my excursions: but it was beautiful moonlight after tea; and, as I rode on, the gloom cleared. I shall have another happy evening, I thought to myself; and what delights me more, my pretty Linton will. I trotted up their garden, and was turning round to the back, when that fellow Earnshaw met me, took my bridle, and bid me go in by the front entrance. He patted Minny’s neck, and said she was a bonny beast, and appeared as if he wanted me to speak to him. I only told him to leave my horse alone, or else it would kick him. He answered in his vulgar accent, ‘It wouldn’t do mitch hurt if it did;’ and surveyed its legs with a smile. I was half inclined to make it try; however, he moved off to open the door, and, as he raised the latch, he looked up to the inscription above, and said, with a stupid mixture of awkwardness and elation: ‘Miss Catherine! I can read yon, now.’
“第二天我很伤心；部分是因为你身体不好，部分是因为我希望父亲知道并批准我的旅行：但茶后的月光很美丽；当我继续前行时，阴霾渐渐散去。我心里想，我又会度过一个快乐的夜晚。更让我高兴的是我漂亮的林惇会的。我小跑着穿过他们的花园，正要转身往后面走，恩肖那个家伙遇见了我，拉住了我的缰绳，叫我从前门进去。他拍拍明妮的脖子，说她是一头漂亮的野兽，看上去好像想让我和他说话。我只是告诉他别管我的马，否则它会踢他。他用粗俗的口音回答道：“就算伤了也没什么大不了的。”然后微笑着打量着它的腿。我有点想尝试一下。然而，他走开去开门，当他抬起门闩时，他抬头看着上面的铭文，带着一种愚蠢的尴尬和兴高采烈的混合语气说道：“凯瑟琳小姐！”我现在可以读了。

‘’Wonderful,’ I exclaimed. ‘Pray let us hear you you ARE grown clever!’
“太棒了，”我惊叹道。 “请让我们听到你的声音，你变聪明了！”

‘He spelt, and drawled over by syllables, the name ‘Hareton Earnshaw.’
“他拼出‘哈里顿·恩肖’这个名字，并拖长了音节。”

‘’And the figures?’ I cried, encouragingly, perceiving that he came to a dead halt.
“那数字呢？”我发现他完全停了下来，鼓励地喊道。

‘’I cannot tell them yet,’ he answered.
“我还不能告诉他们，”他回答道。

‘’Oh, you dunce!’ I said, laughing heartily at his failure.
“哦，你这个笨蛋！”我说，对他的失败大笑起来。

‘The fool stared, with a grin hovering about his lips, and a scowl gathering over his eyes, as if uncertain whether he might not join in my mirth: whether it were not pleasant familiarity, or what it really was, contempt. I settled his doubts, by suddenly retrieving my gravity and desiring him to walk away, for I came to see Linton, not him. He reddened I saw that by the moonlight dropped his hand from the latch, and skulked off, a picture of mortified vanity. He imagined himself to be as accomplished as Linton, I suppose, because he could spell his own name; and was marvellously discomfited that I didn’t think the same.’
“傻瓜凝视着，嘴角挂着笑容，眼睛里满是愁容，仿佛不确定他是否会加入我的欢笑：这是否是令人愉快的熟悉，或者它到底是什么，蔑视。我突然恢复了重力，希望他走开，从而消除了他的疑虑，因为我是来看林惇的，而不是他。我看到他在月光下脸红了，他的手从门闩上松开，然后偷偷溜走了，一副羞愧的虚荣心的样子。我想，他想象自己和林惇一样有成就，因为他能拼出自己的名字。我感到非常沮丧，因为我不这么认为。

‘Stop, Miss Catherine, dear!’ I interrupted. ‘I shall not scold, but I don’t like your conduct there. If you had remembered that Hareton was your cousin as much as Master Heathcliff, you would have felt how improper it was to behave in that way. At least, it was praiseworthy ambition for him to desire to be as accomplished as Linton; and probably he did not learn merely to show off: you had made him ashamed of his ignorance before, I have no doubt; and he wished to remedy it and please you. To sneer at his imperfect attempt was very bad breeding. Had you been brought up in his circumstances, would you be less rude? He was as quick and as intelligent a child as ever you were; and I’m hurt that he should be despised now, because that base Heathcliff has treated him so unjustly.’
“停下来，凯瑟琳小姐，亲爱的！”我打断道。 “我不会责骂，但我不喜欢你在那里的行为。如果你还记得哈里顿和希刺克厉夫大师一样都是你的表弟，你就会觉得这样做是多么不合适。至少，他渴望像林惇那样有成就，这是值得称赞的野心。也许他学会的不仅仅是炫耀：我毫不怀疑，你以前已经让他为自己的无知感到羞愧了；他希望弥补这一点并取悦你。嘲笑他不完美的尝试是非常糟糕的教养。如果你是在他的环境下长大的，你会不会不那么无礼呢？他和你一样敏捷、聪明。我很伤心他现在受到鄙视，因为那个卑鄙的希斯克利夫对他如此不公正。

‘Well, Ellen, you won’t cry about it, will you?’ she exclaimed, surprised at my earnestness. ‘But wait, and you shall hear if he conned his A B C to please me; and if it were worth while being civil to the brute. I entered; Linton was lying on the settle, and half got up to welcome me.
“好吧，艾伦，你不会为此哭泣，对吗？”她大声说道，对我的认真感到惊讶。 “但是等等，你会听到他是否为了取悦我而欺骗了他的ABC；如果值得对野蛮人保持礼貌的话。我进入了;林顿躺在长椅上，半站起来欢迎我。

‘’I’m ill to-night, Catherine, love,’ he said; ‘and you must have all the talk, and let me listen. Come, and sit by me. I was sure you wouldn’t break your word, and I’ll make you promise again, before you go.’
“我今晚病了，凯瑟琳，亲爱的，”他说。 ‘你必须把所有的事情都说完，让我听。来吧，坐在我身边。我确信你不会食言，在你走之前我会让你再次保证。

‘I knew now that I mustn’t tease him, as he was ill; and I spoke softly and put no questions, and avoided irritating him in any way. I had brought some of my nicest books for him: he asked me to read a little of one, and I was about to comply, when Earnshaw burst the door open: having gathered venom with reflection. He advanced direct to us, seized Linton by the arm, and swung him off the seat.
“我现在知道我不能取笑他，因为他病了；我说话轻声细语，没有提出任何问题，也避免以任何方式激怒他。我给他带来了一些我最好的书：他让我读其中的一小部分，我正要答应，恩肖突然打开了门：他在反思中积累了恶毒。他直接向我们走来，抓住林惇的手臂，把他从座位上甩下来。

‘’Get to thy own room!’ he said, in a voice almost inarticulate with passion; and his face looked swelled and furious. ‘Take her there if she comes to see thee: thou shalln’t keep me out of this. Begone wi’ ye both!’
“到你自己的房间去！”他用一种几乎无法言喻的热情说道。他的脸看起来肿胀而愤怒。 “如果她来见你，就带她去那里：你不能阻止我。你们俩都走吧！

‘He swore at us, and left Linton no time to answer, nearly throwing him into the kitchen; and he clenched his fist as I followed, seemingly longing to knock me down. I was afraid for a moment, and I let one volume fall; he kicked it after me, and shut us out. I heard a malignant, crackly laugh by the fire, and turning, beheld that odious Joseph standing rubbing his bony hands, and quivering.
“他对我们破口大骂，不让林惇有时间回答，差点把他扔进厨房；当我跟在他身后时，他握紧了拳头，似乎很想把我打倒。我一时害怕，让一卷掉下来；他在我身后踢了它，把我们拒之门外。我听到火边传来一阵恶毒、嘶哑的笑声，我转过身来，看到那个可恶的约瑟夫站在那里，搓着他瘦骨嶙峋的双手，浑身发抖。

‘’I wer sure he’d sarve ye out! He’s a grand lad! He’s getten t’ raight sperrit in him! HE knaws ay, he knaws, as weel as I do, who sud be t’ maister yonder Ech, ech, ech! He made ye skift properly! Ech, ech, ech!’
“我确信他会救你们的！”他是一个伟大的小伙子！他的精神焕发了！他知道啊，他和我一样知道，谁会是那边的大师 哎呀，哎呀，哎呀！他让你们正确地滑行！哎呀，哎呀，哎呀！

‘’Where must we go?’ I asked of my cousin, disregarding the old wretch’s mockery.
“我们该去哪里？”我不顾老家伙的嘲笑，问我的表弟。

‘Linton was white and trembling. He was not pretty then, Ellen: oh, no! he looked frightful; for his thin face and large eyes were wrought into an expression of frantic, powerless fury. He grasped the handle of the door, and shook it: it was fastened inside.
“林惇脸色苍白，浑身发抖。那时他并不漂亮，艾伦：哦，不！他看起来很可怕；因为他那瘦削的脸庞和一双大眼睛，流露出一种疯狂而无力的愤怒表情。他抓住门把手，摇了摇：门已经锁在里面了。

‘’If you don’t let me in, I’ll kill you! If you don’t let me in, I’ll kill you!’ he rather shrieked than said. ‘Devil! devil! I’ll kill you I’ll kill you!’
“你不让我进去，我就杀了你！”如果你不让我进去，我就杀了你！”他宁愿尖叫，也没有说。 '魔鬼！魔鬼！我要杀了你我要杀了你！

Joseph uttered his croaking laugh again.
约瑟夫再次发出沙哑的笑声。

‘’Thear, that’s t’ father!’ he cried. ‘That’s father! We’ve allas summut o’ either side in us. Niver heed, Hareton, lad dunnut be ‘feard he cannot get at thee!’
“那儿，那是父亲！”他喊道。 ‘那是父亲！我们两边都有。尼弗注意，哈里顿，邓纳特小伙子“恐怕他无法接近你！”

‘I took hold of Linton’s hands, and tried to pull him away; but he shrieked so shockingly that I dared not proceed. At last his cries were choked by a dreadful fit of coughing; blood gushed from his mouth, and he fell on the ground. I ran into the yard, sick with terror; and called for Zillah, as loud as I could. She soon heard me: she was milking the cows in a shed behind the barn, and hurrying from her work, she inquired what there was to do? I hadn’t breath to explain; dragging her in, I looked about for Linton. Earnshaw had come out to examine the mischief he had caused, and he was then conveying the poor thing up-stairs. Zillah and I ascended after him; but he stopped me at the top of the steps, and said I shouldn’t go in: I must go home. I exclaimed that he had killed Linton, and I WOULD enter. Joseph locked the door, and declared I should do ‘no sich stuff,’ and asked me whether I were ‘bahn to be as mad as him.’ I stood crying till the housekeeper reappeared. She affirmed he would be better in a bit, but he couldn’t do with that shrieking and din; and she took me, and nearly carried me into the house.
“我抓住林惇的手，试图把他拉开；但他的尖叫声太令人震惊了，我不敢继续前进。最后，他的哭声被一阵可怕的咳嗽止住了。鲜血从他嘴里喷涌而出，他倒在了地上。我跑进院子，恐惧得要命。我尽可能大声地呼唤齐拉。她很快就听到了我的声音：她正在谷仓后面的棚子里挤奶，匆忙下班，她询问有什么事情要做？我没有时间解释；我把她拖了进去，四处寻找林惇。恩肖出来检查他造成的恶作剧，然后他把这个可怜的东西搬上楼。齐拉和我跟随他上升。但他在台阶顶端拦住了我，说我不应该进去：我必须回家。我惊呼他杀了林惇，我就进去。约瑟夫锁上了门，并宣布我“不应该做这样的事情”，并问我是否“不能像他一样生气”。我站着哭，直到管家再次出现。她确信他很快就会好起来，但他无法忍受那种尖叫和喧闹；她拉着我，几乎把我抱进了屋子。

‘Ellen, I was ready to tear my hair off my head! I sobbed and wept so that my eyes were almost blind; and the ruffian you have such sympathy with stood opposite: presuming every now and then to bid me ‘wisht,’ and denying that it was his fault; and, finally, frightened by my assertions that I would tell papa, and that he should be put in prison and hanged, he commenced blubbering himself, and hurried out to hide his cowardly agitation. Still, I was not rid of him: when at length they compelled me to depart, and I had got some hundred yards off the premises, he suddenly issued from the shadow of the road-side, and checked Minny and took hold of me.
“艾伦，我已经准备好把我的头发从头上扯下来了！”我抽泣着，哭得眼睛都快瞎了。而你所同情的那个恶棍则站在对面：时不时地对我说“愿意”，却否认这是他的错；最后，我断言我会告诉爸爸，他应该被关进监狱并被绞死，这让他感到害怕，他开始哭泣，并匆忙跑出去掩饰他懦弱的激动。尽管如此，我还是没有摆脱他：当最后他们强迫我离开时，我已经离开了房子几百码，他突然从路边的阴影中出现，检查了明妮并抓住了我。

‘’Miss Catherine, I’m ill grieved,’ he began, ‘but it’s rayther too bad ‘
“凯瑟琳小姐，我很难过，”他开始说道，“但这太糟糕了”

‘I gave him a cut with my whip, thinking perhaps he would murder me. He let go, thundering one of his horrid curses, and I galloped home more than half out of my senses.
“我用鞭子抽打了他，以为他可能会杀了我。他放开了手，大声咒骂了一声，我几乎失去了知觉，飞奔回家。

‘I didn’t bid you good-night that evening, and I didn’t go to Wuthering Heights the next: I wished to go exceedingly; but I was strangely excited, and dreaded to hear that Linton was dead, sometimes; and sometimes shuddered at the thought of encountering Hareton. On the third day I took courage: at least, I couldn’t bear longer suspense, and stole off once more. I went at five o’clock, and walked; fancying I might manage to creep into the house, and up to Linton’s room, unobserved. However, the dogs gave notice of my approach. Zillah received me, and saying ‘the lad was mending nicely,’ showed me into a small, tidy, carpeted apartment, where, to my inexpressible joy, I beheld Linton laid on a little sofa, reading one of my books. But he would neither speak to me nor look at me, through a whole hour, Ellen: he has such an unhappy temper. And what quite confounded me, when he did open his mouth, it was to utter the falsehood that I had occasioned the uproar, and Hareton was not to blame! Unable to reply, except passionately, I got up and walked from the room. He sent after me a faint ‘Catherine!’ He did not reckon on being answered so: but I wouldn’t turn back; and the morrow was the second day on which I stayed at home, nearly determined to visit him no more. But it was so miserable going to bed and getting up, and never hearing anything about him, that my resolution melted into air before it was properly formed. It had appeared wrong to take the journey once; now it seemed wrong to refrain. Michael came to ask if he must saddle Minny; I said ‘Yes,’ and considered myself doing a duty as she bore me over the hills. I was forced to pass the front windows to get to the court: it was no use trying to conceal my presence.
“那天晚上我没有向你道晚安，第二天我也没有去呼啸山庄：我非常想去；但有时我却异常兴奋，甚至害怕听到林惇死了。有时一想到要遇到哈里顿就感到不寒而栗。第三天，我鼓起勇气：至少，我无法忍受再悬念，又偷偷溜走了。我是五点钟去的，然后步行；我想象着我可能会设法悄悄溜进房子，来到林惇的房间，而不被人发现。然而，狗注意到了我的接近。齐拉接待了我，说“这小伙子恢复得很好”，然后带我走进一间干净整洁、铺着地毯的小公寓，在那里，我看到林惇躺在一张小沙发上，正在读我的一本书，这让我感到难以言表的喜悦。但整整一个小时，他既不跟我说话，也不看我，艾伦：他的脾气真不高兴。令我大惑不解的是，当他张开嘴时，却说出了我引起骚动的谎言，而哈里顿不该受到责备！我无法回答，除了热情地回答，我起身走出了房间。他在我身后微弱地喊了一声“凯瑟琳！”他没想到会得到这样的回答：但我不会回头；第二天就是我待在家里的第二天，我几乎决定不再去看他了。但上床睡觉和起床后却再也没有听到任何关于他的消息真是太痛苦了，以至于我的决心在正式形成之前就化为泡影了。看来这次旅行是错误的。现在看来克制是错误的。迈克尔过来问他是否必须给明妮备鞍；米妮回答道。我说“是的”，当她带着我翻山越岭时，我认为自己是在尽一份责任。我被迫通过前窗才能到达法庭：试图隐藏我的存在是没有用的。

‘’Young master is in the house,’ said Zillah, as she saw me making for the parlour. I went in; Earnshaw was there also, but he quitted the room directly. Linton sat in the great arm-chair half asleep; walking up to the fire, I began in a serious tone, partly meaning it to be true -
“少爷在屋里。”齐拉看到我朝客厅走去，说道。我进去了；恩肖也在场，但他直接退出了房间。林顿坐在大扶手椅上半睡半醒。走到火边，我开始用严肃的语气，部分地认为这是真的——

‘’As you don’t like me, Linton, and as you think I come on purpose to hurt you, and pretend that I do so every time, this is our last meeting: let us say good-bye; and tell Mr. Heathcliff that you have no wish to see me, and that he mustn’t invent any more falsehoods on the subject.’
“林惇，你不喜欢我，你认为我是故意伤害你的，而且我每次都假装这样做，所以这是我们最后一次见面：让我们说再见吧；告诉希刺克厉夫先生，你不想见我，他不能再在这个问题上编造任何谎言。

‘’Sit down and take your hat off, Catherine,’ he answered. ‘You are so much happier than I am, you ought to be better. Papa talks enough of my defects, and shows enough scorn of me, to make it natural I should doubt myself. I doubt whether I am not altogether as worthless as he calls me, frequently; and then I feel so cross and bitter, I hate everybody! I am worthless, and bad in temper, and bad in spirit, almost always; and, if you choose, you may say good-bye: you’ll get rid of an annoyance. Only, Catherine, do me this justice: believe that if I might be as sweet, and as kind, and as good as you are, I would be; as willingly, and more so, than as happy and as healthy. And believe that your kindness has made me love you deeper than if I deserved your love: and though I couldn’t, and cannot help showing my nature to you, I regret it and repent it; and shall regret and repent it till I die!’
“坐下来，把帽子脱下来，凯瑟琳，”他回答道。 “你比我幸福得多，你应该做得更好。”爸爸对我的缺点说得够多了，对我的蔑视也够多了，所以我自然会怀疑自己。我怀疑我是不是像他经常说的那样毫无价值。然后我感到非常生气和痛苦，我恨所有人！我几乎总是毫无价值，脾气暴躁，精神也很糟糕；而且，如果你选择的话，你可以说再见：你会摆脱烦恼。只是，凯瑟琳，请公平地对待我：请相信，如果我能像你一样可爱、善良、善良，我就会的；比快乐和健康更愿意，更是如此。相信你的仁慈让我对你的爱比我值得你的爱更深：虽然我不能、也情不自禁地向你展示我的本性，但我后悔并悔改；直到死我都会后悔、忏悔！”

‘I felt he spoke the truth; and I felt I must forgive him: and, though we should quarrel the next moment, I must forgive him again. We were reconciled; but we cried, both of us, the whole time I stayed: not entirely for sorrow; yet I WAS sorry Linton had that distorted nature. He’ll never let his friends be at ease, and he’ll never be at ease himself! I have always gone to his little parlour, since that night; because his father returned the day after.
“我觉得他说的是实话；我觉得我必须原谅他：而且，尽管我们下一刻就会吵架，但我必须再次原谅他。我们和解了；但我留下来的整个过程中，我们俩都哭了：不完全是因为悲伤；而是因为悲伤。但我很遗憾林惇有这种扭曲的本性。他永远不会让他的朋友安心，他自己也永远不会安心！从那天晚上起，我就经常去他的小客厅。因为他的父亲第二天就回来了。

‘About three times, I think, we have been merry and hopeful, as we were the first evening; the rest of my visits were dreary and troubled: now with his selfishness and spite, and now with his sufferings: but I’ve learned to endure the former with nearly as little resentment as the latter. Mr. Heathcliff purposely avoids me: I have hardly seen him at all. Last Sunday, indeed, coming earlier than usual, I heard him abusing poor Linton cruelly for his conduct of the night before. I can’t tell how he knew of it, unless he listened. Linton had certainly behaved provokingly: however, it was the business of nobody but me, and I interrupted Mr. Heathcliff’s lecture by entering and telling him so. He burst into a laugh, and went away, saying he was glad I took that view of the matter. Since then, I’ve told Linton he must whisper his bitter things. Now, Ellen, you have heard all. I can’t be prevented from going to Wuthering Heights, except by inflicting misery on two people; whereas, if you’ll only not tell papa, my going need disturb the tranquillity of none. You’ll not tell, will you? It will be very heartless, if you do.’
“我想，大约有三次，我们都像第一天晚上那样快乐而充满希望；我其余的拜访都是沉闷和烦恼的：现在是他的自私和恶意，现在是他的痛苦：但我已经学会了忍受前者，几乎和后者一样没有怨恨。希刺克厉夫先生故意避开我：我几乎没见过他。确实，上周日比平时来得早，我听到他残酷地辱骂可怜的林惇前一天晚上的行为。我不知道他是怎么知道的，除非他听了。林惇的行为确实很挑衅：然而，这不关我的事，我走进来告诉他这一点，打断了希刺克厉夫先生的演讲。他突然大笑起来，然后走开了，说他很高兴我对这件事有这样的看法。从那时起，我就告诉林惇，他必须低声说出他的苦毒。现在，艾伦，你已经听到了一切。除非给两个人带来痛苦，否则我无法阻止我去呼啸山庄。然而，只要你不告诉爸爸，我的需要就不会打扰任何人的宁静。你不会告诉的，是吗？如果你这样做的话，那就太无情了。

‘I’ll make up my mind on that point by to-morrow, Miss Catherine,’ I replied. ‘It requires some study; and so I’ll leave you to your rest, and go think it over.’
“我会在明天之前做出决定，凯瑟琳小姐，”我回答道。 “这需要一些研究；所以我就让你休息吧，你去考虑一下。

I thought it over aloud, in my master’s presence; walking straight from her room to his, and relating the whole story: with the exception of her conversations with her cousin, and any mention of Hareton. Mr. Linton was alarmed and distressed, more than he would acknowledge to me. In the morning, Catherine learnt my betrayal of her confidence, and she learnt also that her secret visits were to end. In vain she wept and writhed against the interdict, and implored her father to have pity on Linton: all she got to comfort her was a promise that he would write and give him leave to come to the Grange when he pleased; but explaining that he must no longer expect to see Catherine at Wuthering Heights. Perhaps, had he been aware of his nephew’s disposition and state of health, he would have seen fit to withhold even that slight consolation.
我当着主人的面大声地想了想。从她的房间径直走到他的房间，讲述了整个故事：除了她和她表弟的谈话，以及任何提到哈里顿的事情。林惇先生感到震惊和痛苦，这比他向我承认的还要严重。早上，凯瑟琳得知我背叛了她的信任，她也得知她的秘密访问即将结束。她徒劳地哭泣和翻滚，反对这项禁令，并恳求她的父亲怜悯林惇：她得到的安慰只是承诺他会写信并允许他在他愿意的时候来田庄。但解释说他不能再指望在呼啸山庄见到凯瑟琳。或许，如果他了解侄子的性情和健康状况，他会觉得连这点小小的安慰都不应该。

Chapter XXV
第二十五章

‘THESE things happened last winter, sir,’ said Mrs. Dean; ‘hardly more than a year ago. Last winter, I did not think, at another twelve months’ end, I should be amusing a stranger to the family with relating them! Yet, who knows how long you’ll be a stranger? You’re too young to rest always contented, living by yourself; and I some way fancy no one could see Catherine Linton and not love her. You smile; but why do you look so lively and interested when I talk about her? and why have you asked me to hang her picture over your fireplace? and why ?’
“这些事情发生在去年冬天，先生，”迪恩夫人说。 ‘不到一年多前。去年冬天，我没想到，再过十二个月后，我应该用一个陌生人来讲述他们的故事！然而，谁知道你会成为陌生人多久？你还太年轻，不能永远满足于自己的生活；我以某种方式认为没有人会看到凯瑟琳·林顿而不爱她。你微笑；但为什么当我谈论她的时候，你看起来那么活泼、那么感兴趣呢？你为什么要我把她的照片挂在你的壁炉上？为什么？’

‘Stop, my good friend!’ I cried. ‘It may be very possible that I should love her; but would she love me? I doubt it too much to venture my tranquillity by running into temptation: and then my home is not here. I’m of the busy world, and to its arms I must return. Go on. Was Catherine obedient to her father’s commands?’
“停下来，我的好朋友！”我喊道。 “我很可能会爱她；但她会爱我吗？我太怀疑是否会因为遇到诱惑而冒险去冒险：那么我的家就不在这里了。我来自忙碌的世界，我必须回到它的怀抱。继续。凯瑟琳服从她父亲的命令吗？

‘She was,’ continued the housekeeper. ‘Her affection for him was still the chief sentiment in her heart; and he spoke without anger: he spoke in the deep tenderness of one about to leave his treasure amid perils and foes, where his remembered words would be the only aid that he could bequeath to guide her. He said to me, a few days afterwards, ‘I wish my nephew would write, Ellen, or call. Tell me, sincerely, what you think of him: is he changed for the better, or is there a prospect of improvement, as he grows a man?’
“她是，”管家继续说道。 “她对他的感情仍然是她心中的主要感情；他说话时没有愤怒：他说话时充满了深切的温柔，就像一个即将在危险和敌人中离开他的宝藏的人一样，他记住的话语将是他能留下来引导她的唯一帮助。几天后，他对我说：‘我希望我的侄子能够写信给我，艾伦，或者打电话给我。真诚地告诉我，你对他的看法：他是否变得更好了，或者随着他成长为一个男人，他是否有进步的前景？

‘’He’s very delicate, sir,’ I replied; ‘and scarcely likely to reach manhood: but this I can say, he does not resemble his father; and if Miss Catherine had the misfortune to marry him, he would not be beyond her control: unless she were extremely and foolishly indulgent. However, master, you’ll have plenty of time to get acquainted with him and see whether he would suit her: it wants four years and more to his being of age.‘‘
“他非常脆弱，先生，”我回答道。 “而且几乎不可能成年：但我可以说，他不像他的父亲；即使凯瑟琳小姐不幸嫁给了他，他也不会超出她的控制范围：除非她极其愚蠢地纵容。不过，主人，你还有充足的时间去熟悉他，看看他适不适合她，他的成年还需要四年多的时间。”

Edgar sighed; and, walking to the window, looked out towards Gimmerton Kirk. It was a misty afternoon, but the February sun shone dimly, and we could just distinguish the two fir-trees in the yard, and the sparely-scattered gravestones.
埃德加叹了口气；然后，走到窗前，望向吉默顿·柯克。那是一个有雾的下午，但二月的阳光昏暗，我们只能辨认出院子里的两棵枞树，还有稀疏散落的墓碑。

‘I’ve prayed often,’ he half soliloquised, ‘for the approach of what is coming; and now I begin to shrink, and fear it. I thought the memory of the hour I came down that glen a bridegroom would be less sweet than the anticipation that I was soon, in a few months, or, possibly, weeks, to be carried up, and laid in its lonely hollow! Ellen, I’ve been very happy with my little Cathy: through winter nights and summer days she was a living hope at my side. But I’ve been as happy musing by myself among those stones, under that old church: lying, through the long June evenings, on the green mound of her mother’s grave, and wishing yearning for the time when I might lie beneath it. What can I do for Cathy? How must I quit her? I’d not care one moment for Linton being Heathcliff’s son; nor for his taking her from me, if he could console her for my loss. I’d not care that Heathcliff gained his ends, and triumphed in robbing me of my last blessing! But should Linton be unworthy only a feeble tool to his father I cannot abandon her to him! And, hard though it be to crush her buoyant spirit, I must persevere in making her sad while I live, and leaving her solitary when I die. Darling! I’d rather resign her to God, and lay her in the earth before me.’
“我经常祈祷，”他半自言自语地说，“祈求即将到来的事情的到来；现在我开始退缩，并害怕它。我想，我作为新郎来到那个山谷的那一刻的记忆，不会比我很快，几个月后，或者可能几周后，被抬上来，躺在孤独的山谷里的期待更甜蜜！艾伦，我对我的小凯茜非常满意：无论冬夜还是夏日，她都是我身边活生生的希望。但我自己也同样快乐地在那些石头中间、在那座古老的教堂下沉思：在漫长的六月夜晚，我躺在她母亲坟墓的绿色土堆上，渴望有一天我可以躺在它下面。我能为凯茜做什么？我该怎么戒掉她？我一点也不在乎林惇是希刺克厉夫的儿子；我一点也不在乎。如果他能因我的损失而安慰她的话，也不会因为他把她从我身边夺走。我不在乎希斯克利夫达到了他的目的，并成功地夺走了我最后的祝福！但如果林顿不配，只是他父亲的一个软弱的工具，我就不能把她抛弃给他！而且，虽然很难摧毁她的乐观精神，但我必须坚持在我活着的时候让她悲伤，在我死的时候让她孤独。亲爱的！我宁愿把她交给上帝，把她放在我面前的地上。

‘Resign her to God as it is, sir,’ I answered, ‘and if we should lose you which may He forbid under His providence, I’ll stand her friend and counsellor to the last. Miss Catherine is a good girl: I don’t fear that she will go wilfully wrong; and people who do their duty are always finally rewarded.’
“先生，就让她听天由命吧，先生，”我回答道，“如果我们失去了你（上帝可能会禁止这样做），我会一直做她的朋友和顾问。”凯瑟琳小姐是个好女孩，我不怕她故意犯错；尽职尽责的人最终总会得到回报。”

Spring advanced; yet my master gathered no real strength, though he resumed his walks in the grounds with his daughter. To her inexperienced notions, this itself was a sign of convalescence; and then his cheek was often flushed, and his eyes were bright; she felt sure of his recovering. On her seventeenth birthday, he did not visit the churchyard: it was raining, and I observed ‘You’ll surely not go out to-night, sir?’
春天提前了；然而，我的主人并没有积聚起真正的力量，尽管他又和他的女儿一起在花园里散步。对于她缺乏经验的观念来说，这本身就是康复的标志；然后他的脸颊时常泛红，眼睛明亮。她确信他会康复。在她十七岁生日那天，他没有去教堂墓地：当时正在下雨，我问道：“先生，您今晚肯定不会出去吗？”

He answered, ‘No, I’ll defer it this year a little longer.’ He wrote again to Linton, expressing his great desire to see him; and, had the invalid been presentable, I’ve no doubt his father would have permitted him to come. As it was, being instructed, he returned an answer, intimating that Mr. Heathcliff objected to his calling at the Grange; but his uncle’s kind remembrance delighted him, and he hoped to meet him sometimes in his rambles, and personally to petition that his cousin and he might not remain long so utterly divided.
他回答说：“不，今年我会推迟一段时间。”他再次写信给林惇，表达了他很想见到他的愿望。而且，如果病人体面的话，我毫不怀疑他的父亲会允许他来。事实上，按照指示，他回复了一个答案，暗示希刺克厉夫先生反对他到田庄拜访。但他叔叔的善意回忆让他很高兴，他希望有时能在散步时见到他，并亲自请求他的表弟和他不要长期处于如此彻底的分裂状态。

That part of his letter was simple, and probably his own. Heathcliff knew he could plead eloquently for Catherine’s company, then.
他信中的这一部分很简单，可能也是他自己的。希刺克厉夫知道他可以雄辩地为凯瑟琳的陪伴辩护。

‘I do not ask,’ he said, ‘that she may visit here; but am I never to see her, because my father forbids me to go to her home, and you forbid her to come to mine? Do, now and then, ride with her towards the Heights; and let us exchange a few words, in your presence! We have done nothing to deserve this separation; and you are not angry with me: you have no reason to dislike me, you allow, yourself. Dear uncle! send me a kind note to-morrow, and leave to join you anywhere you please, except at Thrushcross Grange. I believe an interview would convince you that my father’s character is not mine: he affirms I am more your nephew than his son; and though I have faults which render me unworthy of Catherine, she has excused them, and for her sake, you should also. You inquire after my health it is better; but while I remain cut off from all hope, and doomed to solitude, or the society of those who never did and never will like me, how can I be cheerful and well?’
“我不要求她来这里，”他说。但我是不是永远见不到她了，因为我父亲禁止我去她家，而你也禁止她来我家？时不时地和她一起骑马前往高地；让我们当着您的面交换几句话吧！我们没有做任何值得这种分离的事情；你并不生我的气：你自己承认，你没有理由不喜欢我。亲爱的叔叔！明天给我发一封善意的便条，然后去任何你想去的地方，除了画眉田庄。我相信一次采访会让你相信我父亲的性格不是我的：他肯定我更像是你的侄子而不是他的儿子；虽然我有一些缺点使我配不上凯瑟琳，但她已经原谅了我，为了她，你也应该原谅我。你询问一下我的健康状况就好了；但是，当我仍然与所有希望隔绝，注定孤独，或者与那些从未喜欢过、也永远不会喜欢我的人交往时，我怎么能快乐和健康呢？

Edgar, though he felt for the boy, could not consent to grant his request; because he could not accompany Catherine. He said, in summer, perhaps, they might meet: meantime, he wished him to continue writing at intervals, and engaged to give him what advice and comfort he was able by letter; being well aware of his hard position in his family. Linton complied; and had he been unrestrained, would probably have spoiled all by filling his epistles with complaints and lamentations. but his father kept a sharp watch over him; and, of course, insisted on every line that my master sent being shown; so, instead of penning his peculiar personal sufferings and distresses, the themes constantly uppermost in his thoughts, he harped on the cruel obligation of being held asunder from his friend and love; and gently intimated that Mr. Linton must allow an interview soon, or he should fear he was purposely deceiving him with empty promises.
埃德加虽然同情这个男孩，却无法同意他的请求。因为他无法陪伴凯瑟琳。他说，也许在夏天，他们可能会见面：同时，他希望他继续不时写信，并承诺通过信向他提供他能得到的建议和安慰；深知自己在家庭中的艰难地位。林惇答应了。如果他不加约束，很可能会在书信中充满抱怨和哀叹，从而破坏一切。但他的父亲严密监视着他。当然，我坚持要放映我主人寄来的每一行诗。因此，他没有写下他个人特有的痛苦和痛苦，这些主题始终是他思想中最重要的主题，而是反复讲述与朋友和爱人分离的残酷义务；并温和地暗示林惇先生必须尽快接受采访，否则他会担心他是故意用空洞的承诺来欺骗他。

Cathy was a powerful ally at home; and between them they at length persuaded my master to acquiesce in their having a ride or a walk together about once a week, under my guardianship, and on the moors nearest the Grange: for June found him still declining. Though he had set aside yearly a portion of his income for my young lady’s fortune, he had a natural desire that she might retain or at least return in a short time to the house of her ancestors; and he considered her only prospect of doing that was by a union with his heir; he had no idea that the latter was failing almost as fast as himself; nor had any one, I believe: no doctor visited the Heights, and no one saw Master Heathcliff to make report of his condition among us. I, for my part, began to fancy my forebodings were false, and that he must be actually rallying, when he mentioned riding and walking on the moors, and seemed so earnest in pursuing his object. I could not picture a father treating a dying child as tyrannically and wickedly as I afterwards learned Heathcliff had treated him, to compel this apparent eagerness: his efforts redoubling the more imminently his avaricious and unfeeling plans were threatened with defeat by death.
凯茜在家里是一个强有力的盟友。他们最终说服了我的主人，同意他们每周约一次在我的监护下一起骑马或散步，地点是在离田庄最近的荒原上：因为六月发现他仍在衰弱。尽管他每年都会从自己的收入中拿出一部分用于我小姐的财产，但他自然地希望她能保留或至少在短时间内回到她祖先的房子；他认为她唯一的希望就是与他的继承人结合。他不知道后者的失败速度几乎和他一样快。我相信也没有人：没有医生去过高地，也没有人见到希刺克厉夫大师向我们报告他的病情。就我而言，我开始认为我的预感是错误的，当他提到在荒原上骑马和行走时，他一定是在振作起来，而且似乎很热心地追求他的目标。我无法想象一个父亲会像后来得知希刺克厉夫对待他那样残暴而邪恶地对待一个垂死的孩子，以迫使他表现出这种明显的渴望：他的贪婪和无情的计划越来越受到死亡的威胁，他的努力加倍。

Chapter XXVI
第二十六章

SUMMER was already past its prime, when Edgar reluctantly yielded his assent to their entreaties, and Catherine and I set out on our first ride to join her cousin. It was a close, sultry day: devoid of sunshine, but with a sky too dappled and hazy to threaten rain: and our place of meeting had been fixed at the guide-stone, by the cross-roads. On arriving there, however, a little herd-boy, despatched as a messenger, told us that, ‘Maister Linton wer just o’ this side th’ Heights: and he’d be mitch obleeged to us to gang on a bit further.’
夏天已经过去了，埃德加不情愿地同意了他们的请求，凯瑟琳和我开始了我们的第一次骑马去见她的表弟。这是一个闷热的天气：没有阳光，但天空斑驳而朦胧，没有下雨的危险：我们的集合地点被固定在十字路口旁的路标上。然而，到达那里后，一个作为信使被派去的小牧童告诉我们，“林惇先生就在高地这边：他很乐意让我们再多走一点。” '

‘Then Master Linton has forgot the first injunction of his uncle,’ I observed: ‘he bid us keep on the Grange land, and here we are off at once.’
“林惇少爷忘记了他叔叔的第一条禁令，”我说，“他吩咐我们留在田庄，我们马上就出发。”

‘Well, we’ll turn our horses’ heads round when we reach him,’ answered my companion; ‘our excursion shall lie towards home.’
“好吧，等我们到了他身边，我们就调转马头。”我的同伴回答道。 “我们的旅行将回家。”

But when we reached him, and that was scarcely a quarter of a mile from his own door, we found he had no horse; and we were forced to dismount, and leave ours to graze. He lay on the heath, awaiting our approach, and did not rise till we came within a few yards. Then he walked so feebly, and looked so pale, that I immediately exclaimed, ‘Why, Master Heathcliff, you are not fit for enjoying a ramble this morning. How ill you do look!’
但当我们到达他那里时，距离他家门还不到四分之一英里，我们发现他没有马；他没有马。我们被迫下马，留下我们的马去吃草。他躺在荒地上，等待我们的到来，直到我们来到几码远的地方才站起来。然后他走得那么虚弱，脸色那么苍白，我立刻惊呼道：‘哎呀，希刺克厉夫少爷，你今天早上不适合散步。你看起来多么病态啊！

Catherine surveyed him with grief and astonishment: she changed the ejaculation of joy on her lips to one of alarm; and the congratulation on their long-postponed meeting to an anxious inquiry, whether he were worse than usual?
凯瑟琳悲伤而惊讶地打量着他：她把嘴唇上的喜悦变成了惊慌。祝贺他们推迟已久的会面，并焦急地询问他是否比平时更糟糕？

‘No better better!’ he panted, trembling, and retaining her hand as if he needed its support, while his large blue eyes wandered timidly over her; the hollowness round them transforming to haggard wildness the languid expression they once possessed.
“没有更好了！”他气喘吁吁，颤抖着，握住她的手，仿佛他需要它的支撑，而他那双蓝色的大眼睛胆怯地在她身上扫视。他们周围的空虚变成了他们曾经的慵懒表情，变成了憔悴狂野。

‘But you have been worse,’ persisted his cousin; ‘worse than when I saw you last; you are thinner, and ‘
“但你的情况更糟，”他的表弟坚持说。 ‘比我上次见到你时更糟糕；你更瘦了，而且‘

‘I’m tired,’ he interrupted, hurriedly. ‘It is too hot for walking, let us rest here. And, in the morning, I often feel sick papa says I grow so fast.’
“我累了，”他急忙打断道。 “天太热了，走不动了，我们就在这里休息吧。”而且，早上我经常感到不舒服，爸爸说我长得太快了。”

Badly satisfied, Cathy sat down, and he reclined beside her.
凯茜很满意地坐下来，他斜靠在她身边。

‘This is something like your paradise,’ said she, making an effort at cheerfulness. ‘You recollect the two days we agreed to spend in the place and way each thought pleasantest? This is nearly yours, only there are clouds; but then they are so soft and mellow: it is nicer than sunshine. Next week, if you can, we’ll ride down to the Grange Park, and try mine.’
“这就像你的天堂一样。”她努力装出高兴的样子说道。 “你还记得我们约定在各自认为最愉快的地方和方式度过的两天吗？这几乎是你的了，只是有云；但它们是如此的柔软和醇厚：它比阳光还要美好。下周，如果可以的话，我们会骑车去田庄公园，试试我的。

Linton did not appear to remember what she talked of and he had evidently great difficulty in sustaining any kind of conversation. His lack of interest in the subjects she started, and his equal incapacity to contribute to her entertainment, were so obvious that she could not conceal her disappointment. An indefinite alteration had come over his whole person and manner. The pettishness that might be caressed into fondness, had yielded to a listless apathy; there was less of the peevish temper of a child which frets and teases on purpose to be soothed, and more of the self-absorbed moroseness of a confirmed invalid, repelling consolation, and ready to regard the good-humoured mirth of others as an insult. Catherine perceived, as well as I did, that he held it rather a punishment, than a gratification, to endure our company; and she made no scruple of proposing, presently, to depart. That proposal, unexpectedly, roused Linton from his lethargy, and threw him into a strange state of agitation. He glanced fearfully towards the Heights, begging she would remain another half-hour, at least.
林顿似乎不记得她谈到了什么，而且他显然很难维持任何类型的谈话。他对她开始的科目缺乏兴趣，而且他同样没有能力为她提供娱乐，这些都是如此明显，以至于她无法掩饰她的失望。他的整个人和举止都发生了无限的改变。原本可以被抚慰成喜爱的娇气，却变成了无精打采的冷漠。少了孩子的暴躁脾气，故意烦躁和戏弄以求安抚，而更多的是确诊病人的自私忧郁，排斥安慰，准备将别人的好脾气的欢笑视为一种侮辱。凯瑟琳和我一样认为，他认为忍受我们的陪伴是一种惩罚，而不是一种满足。她立即​​毫不犹豫地提出离开。这个提议出乎意料地让林惇从昏睡中惊醒，陷入了一种奇怪的焦躁状态。他恐惧地望向高地，恳求她至少再待半个小时。

‘But I think,’ said Cathy, ‘you’d be more comfortable at home than sitting here; and I cannot amuse you to-day, I see, by my tales, and songs, and chatter: you have grown wiser than I, in these six months; you have little taste for my diversions now: or else, if I could amuse you, I’d willingly stay.’
“但我认为，”凯茜说，“你呆在家里比坐在这里更舒服；”我看，今天我无法通过我的故事、歌曲和闲聊来取悦你：在这六个月里，你已经变得比我更聪明了；在这六个月里，你已经变得比我更聪明了。你现在对我的消遣没什么兴趣了：否则，如果我能让你开心，我很乐意留下来。

‘Stay to rest yourself,’ he replied. ‘And, Catherine, don’t think or say that I’m VERY unwell: it is the heavy weather and heat that make me dull; and I walked about, before you came, a great deal for me. Tell uncle I’m in tolerable health, will you?’
“留下来休息吧，”他回答道。 “而且，凯瑟琳，不要认为或说我非常不舒服：是恶劣的天气和炎热让我变得迟钝；在你来之前，我走了很多路。告诉叔叔我的健康状况还可以，好吗？

‘I’ll tell him that YOU say so, Linton. I couldn’t affirm that you are,’ observed my young lady, wondering at his pertinacious assertion of what was evidently an untruth.
“我会告诉他你是这么说的，林惇。我不能肯定你就是这样，”我的年轻女士说道，她对他固执的断言显然是不真实的感到惊讶。

‘And be here again next Thursday,’ continued he, shunning her puzzled gaze. ‘And give him my thanks for permitting you to come my best thanks, Catherine. And and, if you DID meet my father, and he asked you about me, don’t lead him to suppose that I’ve been extremely silent and stupid: don’t look sad and downcast, as you are doing he’ll be angry.’
“下周四再来，”他继续说道，避开了她困惑的目光。 “我要感谢他允许你来，我最诚挚的谢意，凯瑟琳。而且，如果你确实见到了我的父亲，并且他向你询问了我的情况，请不要让他认为我一直非常沉默和愚蠢：不要看起来悲伤和沮丧，因为你正在这样做，他会生气的。'

‘I care nothing for his anger,’ exclaimed Cathy, imagining she would be its object.
“我不在乎他的愤怒，”凯茜大声说道，想象着她会成为愤怒的目标。

‘But I do,’ said her cousin, shuddering. ‘DON’T provoke him against me, Catherine, for he is very hard.’
“但我愿意，”她的表弟颤抖着说道。 “凯瑟琳，不要激怒他来反对我，因为他非常严厉。”

‘Is he severe to you, Master Heathcliff?’ I inquired. ‘Has he grown weary of indulgence, and passed from passive to active hatred?’
“希斯克利夫少爷，他对你严厉吗？”我问道。 “他是否已经厌倦了放纵，从被动变成了主动仇恨？”

Linton looked at me, but did not answer; and, after keeping her seat by his side another ten minutes, during which his head fell drowsily on his breast, and he uttered nothing except suppressed moans of exhaustion or pain, Cathy began to seek solace in looking for bilberries, and sharing the produce of her researches with me: she did not offer them to him, for she saw further notice would only weary and annoy.
林顿看着我，但没有回答。在他身边又坐了十分钟，期间他的头昏昏欲睡地靠在胸前，除了因疲惫或疼痛而压抑的呻吟之外，什么也没说，凯茜开始寻找越橘来寻求安慰，并分享越橘的果实。她和我一起做的研究：她没有把它们提供给他，因为她发现进一步的关注只会让人厌倦和烦恼。

‘Is it half-an-hour now, Ellen?’ she whispered in my ear, at last. ‘I can’t tell why we should stay. He’s asleep, and papa will be wanting us back.’
“现在是半小时了吗，艾伦？”她最后在我耳边低声说道。 “我不知道为什么我们应该留下来。他睡着了，爸爸会要我们回来的。”

‘Well, we must not leave him asleep,’ I answered; ‘wait till lie wakes, and be patient. You were mighty eager to set off, but your longing to see poor Linton has soon evaporated!’
“好吧，我们不能让他睡着，”我回答道。 ‘等到谎言醒来，要有耐心。你非常渴望出发，但你想见到可怜的林惇的渴望很快就消失了！

‘Why did HE wish to see me?’ returned Catherine. ‘In his crossest humours, formerly, I liked him better than I do in his present curious mood. It’s just as if it were a task he was compelled to perform this interview for fear his father should scold him. But I’m hardly going to come to give Mr. Heathcliff pleasure; whatever reason he may have for ordering Linton to undergo this penance. And, though I’m glad he’s better in health, I’m sorry he’s so much less pleasant, and so much less affectionate to me.’
“他为什么要见我？”凯瑟琳问道。 “以前，我比他现在好奇的心情更喜欢他的脾气。”就好像这是他被迫接受这次采访的任务，因为他担心父亲会责骂他。但我不会来给希刺克厉夫先生带来快乐；不管他有什么理由命令林惇接受这种忏悔。而且，虽然我很高兴他的健康状况有所好转，但我很遗憾他变得不那么令人愉快，对我也不再那么热情了。”

‘You think HE IS better in health, then?’ I said.
“那么你认为他的健康状况更好了？”我说。

‘Yes,’ she answered; ‘because he always made such a great deal of his sufferings, you know. He is not tolerably well, as he told me to tell papa; but he’s better, very likely.’
“是的，”她回答道。 ‘因为你知道，他总是把自己的痛苦看得那么重。正如他让我告诉爸爸的那样，他的情况不太好。但他很有可能更好。”

‘There you differ with me, Miss Cathy,’ I remarked; ‘I should conjecture him to be far worse.’
“凯茜小姐，你的观点与我不同。”我说道。 “我猜想他的情况要糟糕得多。”

Linton here started from his slumber in bewildered terror, and asked if any one had called his name.
林惇从睡梦中惊恐万分地惊醒，询问是否有人叫过他的名字。

‘No,’ said Catherine; ‘unless in dreams. I cannot conceive how you manage to doze out of doors, in the morning.’
“不，”凯瑟琳说。 ‘除非在梦里。我无法想象你早上是如何在户外打瞌睡的。

‘I thought I heard my father,’ he gasped, glancing up to the frowning nab above us. ‘You are sure nobody spoke?’
“我以为我听到了我父亲的声音，”他喘着气说道，抬头看了一眼我们头顶上皱着眉头的领子。 “你确定没有人说话吗？”

‘Quite sure,’ replied his cousin. ‘Only Ellen and I were disputing concerning your health. Are you truly stronger, Linton, than when we separated in winter? If you be, I’m certain one thing is not stronger your regard for me: speak, are you?’
“非常肯定，”他的表弟回答道。 “只有艾伦和我在争论你的健康问题。林惇，你真的比我们冬天分开时更坚强吗？如果你是，我确信有一件事不会让你对我更加尊重：说话，是吗？

The tears gushed from Linton’s eyes as he answered, ‘Yes, yes, I am!’ And, still under the spell of the imaginary voice, his gaze wandered up and down to detect its owner.
当林惇回答道：“是的，是的，我是！”时，泪水从他的眼中涌出。同时，他仍然被这个想象中的声音所迷住，他的目光上下移动，寻找着它的主人。

Cathy rose. ‘For to-day we must part,’ she said. ‘And I won’t conceal that I have been sadly disappointed with our meeting; though I’ll mention it to nobody but you: not that I stand in awe of Mr. Heathcliff.’
凯茜站起身来。 “今天我们必须分手，”她说。 “我不会隐瞒我对我们的会面感到非常失望；尽管我不会向除了你之外的任何人提及这一点：并不是说我对希刺克厉夫先生感到敬畏。

‘Hush,’ murmured Linton; ‘for God’s sake, hush! He’s coming.’ And he clung to Catherine’s arm, striving to detain her; but at that announcement she hastily disengaged herself, and whistled to Minny, who obeyed her like a dog.
“嘘，”林惇低声说道。 ‘看在上帝的份上，安静！他来了。”他抓住凯瑟琳的手臂，试图留住她。但听到这个消息，她赶紧挣脱出来，向米妮吹口哨，米妮像狗一样服从她。

‘I’ll be here next Thursday,’ she cried, springing to the saddle. ‘Good-bye. Quick, Ellen!’
“下周四我会来这里，”她跳上马鞍，喊道。 '再见。快点，艾伦！”

And so we left him, scarcely conscious of our departure, so absorbed was he in anticipating his father’s approach.
于是我们就离开了他，他几乎没有意识到我们的离开，他全神贯注地期待着父亲的到来。

Before we reached home, Catherine’s displeasure softened into a perplexed sensation of pity and regret, largely blended with vague, uneasy doubts about Linton’s actual circumstances, physical and social: in which I partook, though I counselled her not to say much; for a second journey would make us better judges. My master requested an account of our ongoings. His nephew’s offering of thanks was duly delivered, Miss Cathy gently touching on the rest: I also threw little light on his inquiries, for I hardly knew what to hide and what to reveal.
在我们回到家之前，凯瑟琳的不满情绪软化为一种令人困惑的怜悯和遗憾的感觉，很大程度上混合着对林惇的实际情况、身体和社会的模糊、不安的怀疑：我参与了其中，尽管我劝她不要说太多；我也参与其中，尽管我劝她不要说太多；我也参与了其中。因为第二次旅行会让我们成为更好的法官。我的主人要求我们了解一下我们的进展情况。他的侄子的感谢如期而至，凯茜小姐温柔地触及了其余的部分：我也没有对他的询问做出任何解释，因为我几乎不知道该隐藏什么和该透露什么。

Chapter XXVII
第二十七章

SEVEN days glided away, every one marking its course by the henceforth rapid alteration of Edgar Linton’s state. The havoc that months had previously wrought was now emulated by the inroads of hours. Catherine we would fain have deluded yet; but her own quick spirit refused to delude her: it divined in secret, and brooded on the dreadful probability, gradually ripening into certainty. She had not the heart to mention her ride, when Thursday came round; I mentioned it for her, and obtained permission to order her out of doors: for the library, where her father stopped a short time daily the brief period he could bear to sit up and his chamber, had become her whole world. She grudged each moment that did not find her bending over his pillow, or seated by his side. Her countenance grew wan with watching and sorrow, and my master gladly dismissed her to what he flattered himself would be a happy change of scene and society; drawing comfort from the hope that she would not now be left entirely alone after his death.
七天过去了，每一天都以埃德加·林惇的状态从此发生的迅速变化为标志。几个月前所造成的破坏现在又被时间的流逝所仿效。凯瑟琳我们很想被欺骗；但她自己敏捷的精神拒绝欺骗她：它秘密地占卜，沉思着可怕的可能性，逐渐成熟为确定性。星期四到了，她不忍心提起她的骑行。我向她提到了这件事，并获得许可，命令她出去：因为图书馆，她父亲每天在他能忍受坐起来的短暂时间里停下来的短暂时间和他的房间，已经成为她的整个世界。她每时每刻都感到不满，因为她没有俯身在他的枕头上，或者坐在他的身边。她的脸色因注视和悲伤而变得苍白，我的主人很高兴地将她打发走，他自以为这将是一个令人愉快的场景和社会的变化。她希望在他去世后，她不会孤身一人，这让她感到安慰。

He had a fixed idea, I guessed by several observations he let fall, that, as his nephew resembled him in person, he would resemble him in mind; for Linton’s letters bore few or no indications of his defective character. And I, through pardonable weakness, refrained from correcting the error; asking myself what good there would be in disturbing his last moments with information that he had neither power nor opportunity to turn to account.
根据他的几次观察，我猜他有一个固定的想法，那就是，既然他的侄子长得像他，那么他的思想也会像他。因为林惇的信中很少或根本没有表明他的性格缺陷。而我，出于可以原谅的弱点，没有纠正这个错误。问问自己，如果他知道自己既没有权力也没有机会去追究责任，那么打扰他的最后时刻会有什么好处。

We deferred our excursion till the afternoon; a golden afternoon of August: every breath from the hills so full of life, that it seemed whoever respired it, though dying, might revive. Catherine’s face was just like the landscape shadows and sunshine flitting over it in rapid succession; but the shadows rested longer, and the sunshine was more transient; and her poor little heart reproached itself for even that passing forgetfulness of its cares.
我们把游览推迟到下午。八月的一个金色午后：山间的每一次呼吸都充满生机，似乎呼吸它的人，虽然垂死，却可能复活。凯瑟琳的脸就像风景的阴影和阳光快速地掠​​过一样；但阴影停留的时间更长，阳光的时间也更短暂。她那颗可怜的小心甚至为自己暂时忘记了自己的忧虑而自责。

We discerned Linton watching at the same spot he had selected before. My young mistress alighted, and told me that, as she was resolved to stay a very little while, I had better hold the pony and remain on horseback; but I dissented: I wouldn’t risk losing sight of the charge committed to me a minute; so we climbed the slope of heath together. Master Heathcliff received us with greater animation on this occasion: not the animation of high spirits though, nor yet of joy; it looked more like fear.
我们发现林惇正在观看他之前选择的同一个地点。我的年轻女主人下了车，告诉我，她决定要待一会儿，所以我最好牵着小马，留在马背上。但我不同意：我不会冒一分钟忽视对我的指控的风险；于是我们一起爬上了荒野的斜坡。希刺克厉夫大师这次接待我们时表现得更加热情：虽然不是兴高采烈，也不是喜悦；而是热情洋溢。它看起来更像是恐惧。

‘It is late!’ he said, speaking short and with difficulty. ‘Is not your father very ill? I thought you wouldn’t come.’
“已经晚了！”他简短而艰难地说。 ‘你父亲不是病得很重吗？我以为你不会来。

‘WHY won’t you be candid?’ cried Catherine, swallowing her greeting. ‘Why cannot you say at once you don’t want me? It is strange, Linton, that for the second time you have brought me here on purpose, apparently to distress us both, and for no reason besides!’
“你为什么不坦白呢？”凯瑟琳大声喊道，吞下了她的问候。 ‘你为什么不能立刻说你不想要我了？奇怪的是，林惇，你第二次故意把我带到这里，显然是为了让我们俩都难过，而且没有任何原因！”

Linton shivered, and glanced at her, half supplicating, half ashamed; but his cousin’s patience was not sufficient to endure this enigmatical behaviour.
林惇浑身发抖，半是恳求半是羞愧地看了她一眼。但他表弟的耐心不足以忍受这种神秘的行为。

‘My father IS very ill,’ she said; ‘and why am I called from his bedside? Why didn’t you send to absolve me from my promise, when you wished I wouldn’t keep it? Come! I desire an explanation: playing and trifling are completely banished out of my mind; and I can’t dance attendance on your affectations now!’
“我父亲病得很重，”她说； ‘为什么我会被叫到他的床边呢？当你希望我不遵守诺言时，你为什么不派人来免除我的诺言呢？来！我想要一个解释：玩耍和琐事已经完全从我的脑海中消失了；我现在不能为你的矫揉造作而跳舞！

‘My affectations!’ he murmured; ‘what are they? For heaven’s sake, Catherine, don’t look so angry! Despise me as much as you please; I am a worthless, cowardly wretch: I can’t be scorned enough; but I’m too mean for your anger. Hate my father, and spare me for contempt.’
“我的矫揉造作！”他低声说道。 '这些是什么？看在上帝的份上，凯瑟琳，别显得那么生气！你可以尽情地鄙视我；我是一个毫无价值、胆怯的可怜虫：我怎么受人蔑视都不够；但我对你的愤怒太卑鄙了。恨我的父亲，饶恕我的蔑视吧。”

‘Nonsense!’ cried Catherine in a passion. ‘Foolish, silly boy! And there! he trembles: as if I were really going to touch him! You needn’t bespeak contempt, Linton: anybody will have it spontaneously at your service. Get off! I shall return home: it is folly dragging you from the hearth-stone, and pretending what do we pretend? Let go my frock! If I pitied you for crying and looking so very frightened, you should spurn such pity. Ellen, tell him how disgraceful this conduct is. Rise, and don’t degrade yourself into an abject reptile DON’T!’
“胡说八道！”凯瑟琳激动地喊道。 ‘傻孩子，傻孩子！在那里！他颤抖着：好像我真的要碰他一样！你不必表示蔑视，林惇：任何人都会自发地为你服务。下车！我要回家了：把你从炉边拖出来，假装我们假装什么，真是愚蠢？放开我的连衣裙！如果我同情你哭泣并且看起来如此害怕，你应该拒绝这种怜悯。艾伦，告诉他这种行为是多么可耻。站起来，不要把自己贬低成卑鄙的爬行动物，不要！”

With streaming face and an expression of agony, Linton had thrown his nerveless frame along the ground: he seemed convulsed with exquisite terror.
林惇满脸流着泪，脸上露出痛苦的表情，他无力的身体摔在地上：他似乎因极度的恐惧而抽搐。

‘Oh!’ he sobbed, ‘I cannot bear it! Catherine, Catherine, I’m a traitor, too, and I dare not tell you! But leave me, and I shall be killed! DEAR Catherine, my life is in your hands: and you have said you loved me, and if you did, it wouldn’t harm you. You’ll not go, then? kind, sweet, good Catherine! And perhaps you WILL consent and he’ll let me die with you!’
“噢！”他抽泣着，“我无法忍受！”凯瑟琳，凯瑟琳，我也是叛徒，我不敢告诉你！但离开我，我就会被杀！亲爱的凯瑟琳，我的生命掌握在你手中：你说过你爱我，如果你这样做，也不会伤害你。那你不去吗？善良、可爱、善良的凯瑟琳！也许你会同意，他会让我和你一起死！

My young lady, on witnessing his intense anguish, stooped to raise him. The old feeling of indulgent tenderness overcame her vexation, and she grew thoroughly moved and alarmed.
我的小姐看到他极度痛苦，弯腰扶起他。昔日那种纵容的温柔感战胜了她的烦恼，她变得彻底感动和惊慌。

‘Consent to what?’ she asked. ‘To stay! tell me the meaning of this strange talk, and I will. You contradict your own words, and distract me! Be calm and frank, and confess at once all that weighs on your heart. You wouldn’t injure me, Linton, would you? You wouldn’t let any enemy hurt me, if you could prevent it? I’ll believe you are a coward, for yourself, but not a cowardly betrayer of your best friend.’
“同意什么？”她问道。 ‘留下来！告诉我这个奇怪的谈话的含义，我会的。你自己的话自相矛盾，让我分心！保持冷静和坦诚，立即坦白所有压在你心头的事情。你不会伤害我的，林惇，对吗？如果你能阻止的话，你不会让任何敌人伤害我吗？我会相信你是一个懦夫，对你自己而言，但不是你最好朋友的懦夫背叛者。

‘But my father threatened me,’ gasped the boy, clasping his attenuated fingers, ‘and I dread him I dread him! I DARE not tell!’
“但是我父亲威胁了我，”男孩喘息着，紧握着他瘦弱的手指，“我害怕他，我害怕他！”我不敢说！

‘Oh, well!’ said Catherine, with scornful compassion, ‘keep your secret: I’M no coward. Save yourself: I’m not afraid!’
“噢，好吧！”凯瑟琳带着轻蔑的同情说道，“保守秘密吧：我不是胆小鬼。”拯救你自己：我不害怕！

Her magnanimity provoked his tears: he wept wildly, kissing her supporting hands, and yet could not summon courage to speak out. I was cogitating what the mystery might be, and determined Catherine should never suffer to benefit him or any one else, by my good will; when, hearing a rustle among the ling, I looked up and saw Mr. Heathcliff almost close upon us, descending the Heights. He didn’t cast a glance towards my companions, though they were sufficiently near for Linton’s sobs to be audible; but hailing me in the almost hearty tone he assumed to none besides, and the sincerity of which I couldn’t avoid doubting, he said -
她的宽宏让他泪流满面，他失声痛哭，亲吻着她支撑的双手，却无法鼓起勇气说出来。我正在思考这个谜团可能是什么，并决定凯瑟琳永远不会因为我的善意而让他或任何其他人受益。当听到林间有沙沙声时，我抬起头，看到希刺克厉夫先生正从高地走下来，几乎就在我们身边。他没有看我的同伴，尽管他们离得足够近，林惇的抽泣声听得见。但他用他对任何人都没有表现出的近乎诚挚的语气向我致意，他的诚意让我无法避免怀疑，他说——

‘It is something to see you so near to my house, Nelly. How are you at the Grange? Let us hear. The rumour goes,’ he added, in a lower tone, ‘that Edgar Linton is on his death-bed: perhaps they exaggerate his illness?’
“看到你离我家这么近，真是太高兴了，耐莉。你在田庄还好吗？让我们听听。有传言说，”他低声补充道，“埃德加·林惇已临终：也许他们夸大了他的病情？

‘No; my master is dying,’ I replied: ‘it is true enough. A sad thing it will be for us all, but a blessing for him!’
'不;我的主人快要死了，”我回答说：“这是千真万确的。这对我们所有人来说都是一件悲伤的事情，但对他来说却是一件幸事！”

‘How long will he last, do you think?’ he asked.
“你认为他能坚持多久？”他问道。

‘I don’t know,’ I said.
“我不知道，”我说。

‘Because,’ he continued, looking at the two young people, who were fixed under his eye Linton appeared as if he could not venture to stir or raise his head, and Catherine could not move, on his account ‘because that lad yonder seems determined to beat me; and I’d thank his uncle to be quick, and go before him! Hallo! has the whelp been playing that game long? I DID give him some lessons about snivelling. Is he pretty lively with Miss Linton generally?’
“因为，”他继续说道，看着那两个年轻人，他们都死死地盯着他的眼睛，林惇看上去似乎不敢动弹，也不敢抬起头，而凯瑟琳则因为他的缘故而无法动弹，“因为那边那个小伙子似乎决心要打败我；我要感谢他叔叔快点走在他前面！你好！这小崽子玩这个游戏很久了吗？我确实给他上了一些关于哭泣的课程。总的来说，他对林惇小姐很热情吗？

‘Lively? no he has shown the greatest distress,’ I answered. ‘To see him, I should say, that instead of rambling with his sweetheart on the hills, he ought to be in bed, under the hands of a doctor.’
'活泼？不，他表现出了最大的痛苦，”我回答道。 “我想说，要见到他，他不应该和他的心上人在山上闲逛，而应该躺在床上，接受医生的治疗。”

‘He shall be, in a day or two,’ muttered Heathcliff. ‘But first get up, Linton! Get up!’ he shouted. ‘Don’t grovel on the ground there up, this moment!’
“一两天之内，他就会了。”希刺克厉夫低声说道。 “但是先起来吧，林惇！”起来！”他喊道。 “此时此刻，别趴在地上！”

Linton had sunk prostrate again in another paroxysm of helpless fear, caused by his father’s glance towards him, I suppose: there was nothing else to produce such humiliation. He made several efforts to obey, but his little strength was annihilated for the time, and he fell back again with a moan. Mr. Heathcliff advanced, and lifted him to lean against a ridge of turf.
我想，林惇再次陷入了另一场无助的恐惧发作中，这是由他父亲对他的目光引起的：没有什么其他事情可以产生这样的羞辱。他几次努力想要服从，但那点力气却一时被湮没，呻吟着又向后倒去。希刺克厉夫先生走上前，把他扶到一块草皮的山脊上。

‘Now,’ said he, with curbed ferocity, ‘I’m getting angry and if you don’t command that paltry spirit of yours DAMN you! get up directly!’
“现在，”他带着克制的凶猛说道，“我很生气，如果你不控制住你那微不足道的精神，那该死的！直接起来！”

‘I will, father,’ he panted. ‘Only, let me alone, or I shall faint. I’ve done as you wished, I’m sure. Catherine will tell you that I that I have been cheerful. Ah! keep by me, Catherine; give me your hand.’
“我会的，父亲，”他气喘吁吁地说。 “只是，别打扰我，否则我会晕倒的。”我确信我已经按照你的意愿做了。凯瑟琳会告诉你，我一直很快乐。啊!留在我身边，凯瑟琳；把你的手给我。'

‘Take mine,’ said his father; ‘stand on your feet. There now she’ll lend you her arm: that’s right, look at her. You would imagine I was the devil himself, Miss Linton, to excite such horror. Be so kind as to walk home with him, will you? He shudders if I touch him.’
“拿走我的吧，”他的父亲说。 ‘站起来。现在她会把手臂借给你：没错，看看她。林惇小姐，你可能会认为我就是魔鬼，才引起如此恐怖。请善意地和他一起走回家，好吗？如果我碰他，他就会发抖。

‘Linton dear!’ whispered Catherine, ‘I can’t go to Wuthering Heights: papa has forbidden me. He’ll not harm you: why are you so afraid?’
“亲爱的林惇！”凯瑟琳小声说道，“我不能去呼啸山庄：爸爸禁止我去。”他不会伤害你：你为什么这么害怕？

‘I can never re-enter that house,’ he answered. ‘I’m NOT to reenter it without you!’
“我永远不能再进入那所房子了，”他回答道。 “没有你我不会重新进入！”

‘Stop!’ cried his father. ‘We’ll respect Catherine’s filial scruples. Nelly, take him in, and I’ll follow your advice concerning the doctor, without delay.’
“停下来！”他的父亲喊道。 “我们会尊重凯瑟琳的孝心。耐莉，把他带进去，我会立即听从你关于医生的建议。”

‘You’ll do well,’ replied I. ‘But I must remain with my mistress: to mind your son is not my business.’
“你会做得很好，”我回答道，“但我必须留在我的女主人身边：照顾你的儿子不关我的事。”

‘You are very stiff,’ said Heathcliff, ‘I know that: but you’ll force me to pinch the baby and make it scream before it moves your charity. Come, then, my hero. Are you willing to return, escorted by me?’
“你很僵硬，”希刺克厉夫说，“我知道这一点：但你会强迫我掐婴儿，让它尖叫，然后它才会动你的仁慈。那么，来吧，我的英雄。你愿意在我的护送下回去吗？

He approached once more, and made as if he would seize the fragile being; but, shrinking back, Linton clung to his cousin, and implored her to accompany him, with a frantic importunity that admitted no denial. However I disapproved, I couldn’t hinder her: indeed, how could she have refused him herself? What was filling him with dread we had no means of discerning; but there he was, powerless under its gripe, and any addition seemed capable of shocking him into idiotcy. We reached the threshold; Catherine walked in, and I stood waiting till she had conducted the invalid to a chair, expecting her out immediately; when Mr. Heathcliff, pushing me forward, exclaimed ‘My house is not stricken with the plague, Nelly; and I have a mind to be hospitable to-day: sit down, and allow me to shut the door.’
他再次靠近，仿佛要抓住这个脆弱的存在。但是，林惇退缩了，紧紧抓住他的表弟，恳求她陪他一起去，语气疯狂地恳求，不容否认。不管我怎么不同意，我都无法阻止她：确实，她自己怎么可能拒绝他呢？我们无法辨别到底是什么让他充满了恐惧。但他就在那里，在它的控制下无能为力，任何添加似乎都能让他陷入白痴。我们到达了门槛；凯瑟琳走进来，我站在那里等着，直到她把病人带到椅子上，等待她立即出去。当希斯克利夫先生推着我往前走时，他惊呼道：“耐莉，我的房子没有遭受瘟疫；”今天我想热情好客：请坐下，让我把门关上。”

He shut and locked it also. I started.
他也把门关上并锁上。我已开始。

‘You shall have tea before you go home,’ he added. ‘I am by myself. Hareton is gone with some cattle to the Lees, and Zillah and Joseph are off on a journey of pleasure; and, though I’m used to being alone, I’d rather have some interesting company, if I can get it. Miss Linton, take your seat by HIM. I give you what I have: the present is hardly worth accepting; but I have nothing else to offer. It is Linton, I mean. How she does stare! It’s odd what a savage feeling I have to anything that seems afraid of me! Had I been born where laws are less strict and tastes less dainty, I should treat myself to a slow vivisection of those two, as an evening’s amusement.’
“回家之前你应该喝茶，”他补充道。 ‘我一个人。哈里顿带着一些牛去了李斯，齐拉和约瑟夫踏上了愉快的旅程。而且，虽然我习惯了独处，但如果可以的话，我宁愿有一些有趣的陪伴。林惇小姐，请在他旁边的座位上坐下。我给你我所拥有的：现在的礼物几乎不值得接受；但我没有什么可以提供的。我是说，这是林惇。她的目光多么凝视啊！奇怪的是，我对任何似乎害怕我的东西都有一种多么野蛮的感觉！如果我出生在法律不那么严格、口味不那么精致的地方，我应该慢慢地对这两个人进行活体解剖，作为晚上的娱乐。

He drew in his breath, struck the table, and swore to himself, ‘By hell! I hate them.’
他吸了一口气，拍着桌子，对自己发誓：‘见鬼去吧！我恨他们。'

‘I am not afraid of you!’ exclaimed Catherine, who could not hear the latter part of his speech. She stepped close up; her black eyes flashing with passion and resolution. ‘Give me that key: I will have it!’ she said. ‘I wouldn’t eat or drink here, if I were starving.’
“我不怕你！”凯瑟琳喊道，她听不到他的后半部分。她走近了；她的黑眼睛闪烁着热情和决心。 “给我那把钥匙：我会得到它！”她说。 “如果我饿了，我就不会在这里吃喝。”

Heathcliff had the key in his hand that remained on the table. He looked up, seized with a sort of surprise at her boldness; or, possibly, reminded, by her voice and glance, of the person from whom she inherited it. She snatched at the instrument, and half succeeded in getting it out of his loosened fingers: but her action recalled him to the present; he recovered it speedily.
希刺克厉夫手里拿着留在桌子上的钥匙。他抬起头，对她的大胆感到惊讶。或者，可能是通过她的声音和目光想起了她继承它的人。她一把抓住了乐器，半成功地将它从他松开的手指上夺了出来：但她的动作让他回想起了现在；他很快就恢复了。

‘Now, Catherine Linton,’ he said, ‘stand off, or I shall knock you down; and, that will make Mrs. Dean mad.’
“现在，凯瑟琳·林惇，”他说，“站开，不然我就把你打倒；而且，这会让迪恩夫人生气的。

Regardless of this warning, she captured his closed hand and its contents again. ‘We will go!’ she repeated, exerting her utmost efforts to cause the iron muscles to relax; and finding that her nails made no impression, she applied her teeth pretty sharply. Heathcliff glanced at me a glance that kept me from interfering a moment. Catherine was too intent on his fingers to notice his face. He opened them suddenly, and resigned the object of dispute; but, ere she had well secured it, he seized her with the liberated hand, and, pulling her on his knee, administered with the other a shower of terrific slaps on both sides of the head, each sufficient to have fulfilled his threat, had she been able to fall.’
她不顾这个警告，再次抓住了他紧握的手和里面的东西。 “我们走！”她重复道，尽最大努力让钢铁般的肌肉放松。她发现自己的指甲没有留下痕迹，于是她用力咬牙。希刺克厉夫看了我一眼，让我没有插话。凯瑟琳太专注于他的手指，没有注意到他的脸。他突然睁开眼睛，放弃了争论的对象。但是，还没等她完全把它固定住，他就用解放出来的那只手抓住了她，把她拉到膝盖上，用另一只手在她的头两侧猛烈地打了一巴掌，每一巴掌都足以实现他的威胁。她能够跌倒。

At this diabolical violence I rushed on him furiously. ‘You villain!’ I began to cry, ‘you villain!’ A touch on the chest silenced me: I am stout, and soon put out of breath; and, what with that and the rage, I staggered dizzily back and felt ready to suffocate, or to burst a blood-vessel. The scene was over in two minutes; Catherine, released, put her two hands to her temples, and looked just as if she were not sure whether her ears were off or on. She trembled like a reed, poor thing, and leant against the table perfectly bewildered.
面对这残酷的暴力，我愤怒地冲向他。 “你这个恶棍！”我开始喊道，“你这个恶棍！”胸口上的一触使我沉默了：我很胖，很快就上气不接下气；伴随着这一切和愤怒，我头晕目眩地摇摇晃晃地向后退去，感觉自己快要窒息了，或者血管要爆裂了。这场戏两分钟后就结束了。凯瑟琳被释放了，她把两只手放在太阳穴上，看起来好像不确定自己的耳朵是关着还是关着。她像一根芦苇一样颤抖，可怜的东西，完全困惑地靠在桌子上。

‘I know how to chastise children, you see,’ said the scoundrel, grimly, as he stooped to repossess himself of the key, which had dropped to the floor. ‘Go to Linton now, as I told you; and cry at your ease! I shall be your father, to-morrow all the father you’ll have in a few days and you shall have plenty of that. You can bear plenty; you’re no weakling: you shall have a daily taste, if I catch such a devil of a temper in your eyes again!’
“你看，我知道如何惩罚孩子，”恶棍冷酷地说，同时弯腰去拿掉在地板上的钥匙。 “现在就去林惇吧，正如我告诉过你的；轻松地哭泣吧！明天我将成为你的父亲，几天后你将拥有的所有父亲，你将拥有很多这样的父亲。你可以承受很多；你可不是什么弱者：如果我再在你眼中发现如此脾气暴躁的人，你就该有日常品味了！

Cathy ran to me instead of Linton, and knelt down and put her burning cheek on my lap, weeping aloud. Her cousin had shrunk into a corner of the settle, as quiet as a mouse, congratulating himself, I dare say, that the correction had alighted on another than him. Mr. Heathcliff, perceiving us all confounded, rose, and expeditiously made the tea himself. The cups and saucers were laid ready. He poured it out, and handed me a cup.
凯茜代替林惇跑到我身边，跪下来，把她灼热的脸颊放在我的腿上，放声大哭。她的表弟缩进了长椅的一个角落里，安静得像只老鼠，我敢说，他正在庆幸自己受到了纠正，而不是他。希刺克厉夫先生看出我们都一脸困惑，便站起身来，迅速亲自泡了茶。杯子和碟子都准备好了。他倒了出来，递给我一个杯子。

‘Wash away your spleen,’ he said. ‘And help your own naughty pet and mine. It is not poisoned, though I prepared it. I’m going out to seek your horses.’
“洗掉你的脾脏，”他说。 ‘并帮助你和我的顽皮宠物。虽然是我准备的，但它并没有中毒。我要出去寻找你的马匹。

Our first thought, on his departure, was to force an exit somewhere. We tried the kitchen door, but that was fastened outside: we looked at the windows they were too narrow for even Cathy’s little figure.
当他离开时，我们的第一个想法是从某个地方强行退出。我们尝试了厨房的门，但门是锁在外面的：我们看了看窗户，它们太窄了，甚至连凯茜的小身材都无法容纳。

‘Master Linton,’ I cried, seeing we were regularly imprisoned, ‘you know what your diabolical father is after, and you shall tell us, or I’ll box your ears, as he has done your cousin’s.’
“林惇少爷，”我喊道，看到我们经常被监禁，“你知道你邪恶的父亲在做什么，你应该告诉我们，否则我就打你的耳朵，就像他对你表弟那样。”

‘Yes, Linton, you must tell,’ said Catherine. ‘It was for your sake I came; and it will be wickedly ungrateful if you refuse.’
“是的，林惇，你必须告诉我，”凯瑟琳说。 “我是为了你才来的；如果你拒绝，那就太忘恩负义了。”

‘Give me some tea, I’m thirsty, and then I’ll tell you,’ he answered. ‘Mrs. Dean, go away. I don’t like you standing over me. Now, Catherine, you are letting your tears fall into my cup. I won’t drink that. Give me another.’ Catherine pushed another to him, and wiped her face. I felt disgusted at the little wretch’s composure, since he was no longer in terror for himself. The anguish he had exhibited on the moor subsided as soon as ever he entered Wuthering Heights; so I guessed he had been menaced with an awful visitation of wrath if he failed in decoying us there; and, that accomplished, he had no further immediate fears.
“给我一些茶，我渴了，然后我会告诉你，”他回答道。 '太太。迪安，走开。我不喜欢你站在我的上方。现在，凯瑟琳，你让你的眼泪掉进我的杯子里。我不会喝那个。给我另一个。”凯瑟琳把另一个推给他，擦了擦脸。我对这个小家伙的镇静感到厌恶，因为他不再为自己感到恐惧了。当他进入呼啸山庄时，他在荒原上表现出的痛苦立刻就消失了。所以我猜想，如果他不能把我们引诱到那里，他就会受到可怕的愤怒的威胁。事情完成后，他不再有眼前的恐惧了。

‘Papa wants us to be married,’ he continued, after sipping some of the liquid. ‘And he knows your papa wouldn’t let us marry now; and he’s afraid of my dying if we wait; so we are to be married in the morning, and you are to stay here all night; and, if you do as he wishes, you shall return home next day, and take me with you.’
“爸爸希望我们结婚，”他喝了一些液体后继续说道。 “他知道你爸爸现在不会让我们结婚；如果我们等待，他会担心我会死去；所以我们要在早上结婚，而你要留在这里过夜；如果你按照他的意愿去做，你第二天就可以回家，并带上我。”

‘Take you with her, pitiful changeling!’ I exclaimed. ‘YOU marry? Why, the man is mad! or he thinks us fools, every one. And do you imagine that beautiful young lady, that healthy, hearty girl, will tie herself to a little perishing monkey like you? Are you cherishing the notion that anybody, let alone Miss Catherine Linton, would have you for a husband? You want whipping for bringing us in here at all, with your dastardly puling tricks: and don’t look so silly, now! I’ve a very good mind to shake you severely, for your contemptible treachery, and your imbecile conceit.’
“带上你吧，可怜的换生灵！”我喊道。 '你结婚？为什么，这个男人生气了！或者他认为我们每个人都是傻瓜。你能想象那个美丽的年轻女士，那个健康、爽朗的女孩，会把自己绑在像你这样的一只即将灭亡的小猴子身上吗？你是否珍视任何人，更不用说凯瑟琳·林顿小姐，都会娶你为丈夫？你因为把我们带到这里而想要受到鞭打，用你卑鄙的拉扯伎俩：现在别看起来那么傻！我很乐意严厉地震动你，因为你可鄙的背叛和愚蠢的自负。

I did give him a slight shaking; but it brought on the cough, and he took to his ordinary resource of moaning and weeping, and Catherine rebuked me.
我确实轻轻地摇晃了他；但它引起了咳嗽，他开始呻吟和哭泣，凯瑟琳斥责了我。

‘Stay all night? No,’ she said, looking slowly round. ‘Ellen, I’ll burn that door down but I’ll get out.’
‘留下来过夜？不，”她缓缓环顾四周说道。 “艾伦，我会烧掉那扇门，但我会出去。”

And she would have commenced the execution of her threat directly, but Linton was up in alarm for his dear self again. He clasped her in his two feeble arms sobbing:‘Won’t you have me, and save me? not let me come to the Grange? Oh, darling Catherine! you mustn’t go and leave, after all. You MUST obey my father you MUST!’
她本来会直接开始执行她的威胁，但林惇再次为他亲爱的自己感到震惊。他用两只无力的手臂抱住她，抽泣着：“你不想拥有我，救救我吗？”不让我来田庄？哦，亲爱的凯瑟琳！毕竟，你不能走开。你必须服从我父亲，你必须！

‘I must obey my own,’ she replied, ‘and relieve him from this cruel suspense. The whole night! What would he think? He’ll be distressed already. I’ll either break or burn a way out of the house. Be quiet! You’re in no danger; but if you hinder me Linton, I love papa better than you!’ The mortal terror he felt of Mr. Heathcliff’s anger restored to the boy his coward’s eloquence. Catherine was near distraught: still, she persisted that she must go home, and tried entreaty in her turn, persuading him to subdue his selfish agony. While they were thus occupied, our jailor reentered.
“我必须服从我自己的，”她回答道，“让他摆脱这种残酷的悬念。”通夜！他会怎么想？他早就会心疼了。我要么破坏，要么烧毁一条出路。安静！你没有危险； “林惇，如果你妨碍我，我比你更爱爸爸！”他对希刺克厉夫先生的愤怒感到极度恐惧，这让男孩恢复了胆小鬼的口才。凯瑟琳几乎心烦意乱：尽管如此，她坚持认为自己必须回家，并尝试恳求他克制自私的痛苦。当他们被占领时，我们的狱卒又进来了。

‘Your beasts have trotted off,’ he said, ‘and now Linton! snivelling again? What has she been doing to you? Come, come have done, and get to bed. In a month or two, my lad, you’ll be able to pay her back her present tyrannies with a vigorous hand. You’re pining for pure love, are you not? nothing else in the world: and she shall have you! There, to bed! Zillah won’t be here to-night; you must undress yourself. Hush! hold your noise! Once in your own room, I’ll not come near you: you needn’t fear. By chance, you’ve managed tolerably. I’ll look to the rest.’
“你的牲口已经跑走了，”他说，“现在是林惇！又哭了？她对你做了什么？来吧，来吧，完成了，上床睡觉。一两个月后，我的小伙子，你就能用有力的手段偿还她目前的暴政。你渴望纯洁的爱情，不是吗？世界上什么都没有：她将拥有你！到了，睡觉了！齐拉今晚不会在这里；你必须自己脱衣服。嘘！住住你的噪音！一旦进入你自己的房间，我就不会靠近你：你不必害怕。碰巧的是，你的表现还算可以。我会看看剩下的。

He spoke these words, holding the door open for his son to pass, and the latter achieved his exit exactly as a spaniel might which suspected the person who attended on it of designing a spiteful squeeze. The lock was re-secured. Heathcliff approached the fire, where my mistress and I stood silent. Catherine looked up, and instinctively raised her hand to her cheek: his neighbourhood revived a painful sensation. Anybody else would have been incapable of regarding the childish act with sternness, but he scowled on her and muttered ‘Oh! you are not afraid of me? Your courage is well disguised: you seem damnably afraid!’
他一边说着这些话，一边把门打开，让儿子通过，而后者就像一只西班牙猎犬一样，怀疑看守它的人在设计恶意的挤压，最终成功退出。锁被重新锁紧。希刺克厉夫走近火边，我和我的女主人静静地站着。凯瑟琳抬起头，本能地把手举到脸颊上：他的邻居又恢复了一种痛苦的感觉。换做任何人，都无法严肃地看待这种幼稚的行为，但他却皱着眉头看着她，嘟哝道：“哦！”你不怕我吗？你的勇气被很好地伪装了：你看起来非常害怕！”

‘I AM afraid now,’ she replied, ‘because, if I stay, papa will be miserable: and how can I endure making him miserable when he when he Mr. Heathcliff, let ME go home! I promise to marry Linton: papa would like me to: and I love him. Why should you wish to force me to do what I’ll willingly do of myself?’
“我现在很害怕，”她回答道，“因为如果我留下来，爸爸会很痛苦：当他作为希刺克厉夫先生，让我回家时，我怎么能忍受让他痛苦呢！”我答应嫁给林惇：爸爸希望我这么做：而且我爱他。你为什么要强迫我做我自己愿意做的事呢？

‘Let him dare to force you,’ I cried. ‘There’s law in the land, thank God! there is; though we be in an out-of-the-way place. I’d inform if he were my own son: and it’s felony without benefit of clergy!’
“让他敢强迫你，”我喊道。 “这片土地上有法律，感谢上帝！有;尽管我们处在一个偏僻的地方。如果他是我自己的儿子，我会通知他：这是没有神职人员利益的重罪！

‘Silence!’ said the ruffian. ‘To the devil with your clamour! I don’t want YOU to speak. Miss Linton, I shall enjoy myself remarkably in thinking your father will be miserable: I shall not sleep for satisfaction. You could have hit on no surer way of fixing your residence under my roof for the next twenty-four hours than informing me that such an event would follow. As to your promise to marry Linton, I’ll take care you shall keep it; for you shall not quit this place till it is fulfilled.’
“安静！”恶棍说道。 ‘让你的喧嚣见鬼去吧！我不想让你说话。林惇小姐，想到你父亲会很痛苦，我会感到非常高兴：我不会为了满足而睡觉。在接下来的二十四小时里，你想不出比通知我即将发生这样的事件更可靠的方法来修复你在我屋檐下的住所了。至于你嫁给林惇的承诺，我会照顾你遵守的；因为在事情完成之前，你不能离开这个地方。”

‘Send Ellen, then, to let papa know I’m safe!’ exclaimed Catherine, weeping bitterly. ‘Or marry me now. Poor papa! Ellen, he’ll think we’re lost. What shall we do?’
“那就派艾伦去让爸爸知道我安全了！”凯瑟琳痛哭着喊道。 ‘或者现在就嫁给我吧。可怜的爸爸！艾伦，他会认为我们迷路了。我们该怎么办？

‘Not he! He’ll think you are tired of waiting on him, and run off for a little amusement,’ answered Heathcliff. ‘You cannot deny that you entered my house of your own accord, in contempt of his injunctions to the contrary. And it is quite natural that you should desire amusement at your age; and that you would weary of nursing a sick man, and that man ONLY your father. Catherine, his happiest days were over when your days began. He cursed you, I dare say, for coming into the world (I did, at least); and it would just do if he cursed you as HE went out of it. I’d join him. I don’t love you! How should I? Weep away. As far as I can see, it will be your chief diversion hereafter; unless Linton make amends for other losses: and your provident parent appears to fancy he may. His letters of advice and consolation entertained me vastly. In his last he recommended my jewel to be careful of his; and kind to her when he got her. Careful and kind that’s paternal. But Linton requires his whole stock of care and kindness for himself. Linton can play the little tyrant well. He’ll undertake to torture any number of cats, if their teeth be drawn and their claws pared. You’ll be able to tell his uncle fine tales of his KINDNESS, when you get home again, I assure you.’
‘不是他！他会认为你厌倦了等他，然后跑开去找点乐子。”希刺克厉夫回答道。 “你不能否认你是自愿进入我家的，无视他的相反禁令。在你这个年纪，渴望娱乐是很自然的事。你会厌倦照顾一个病人，而那个人只有你的父亲。凯瑟琳，当你的日子开始的时候，他最幸福的日子就结束了。我敢说，他诅咒了你来到这个世界上（至少我是这么做的）；如果他走出去的时候咒骂你就好了。我会加入他。我不爱你！我该怎么办？哭走吧。据我所知，这将是你今后的主要消遣。除非林顿弥补其他损失：而你有远见的父母似乎也希望他可以这样做。他的建议和安慰信让我非常高兴。在他的最后一章中，他建议我小心保管他的珠宝；当他得到她时，对她很好。细心又善良，这就是父亲的味道。但林惇需要他对自己倾注全部的关心和善意。林顿可以很好地扮演小暴君。只要拔掉猫的牙齿、削掉猫的爪子，他就会折磨任意数量的猫。我向你保证，当你再次回家时，你可以向他叔叔讲述他的善良的美好故事。

‘You’re right there!’ I said; ‘explain your son’s character. Show his resemblance to yourself: and then, I hope, Miss Cathy will think twice before she takes the cockatrice!’
“你就在那里！”我说； ‘解释一下你儿子的性格。把他和你自己表现出来：然后，我希望凯茜小姐在接受鸡蛇之前会三思而后行！

‘I don’t much mind speaking of his amiable qualities now,’ he answered; ‘because she must either accept him or remain a prisoner, and you along with her, till your master dies. I can detain you both, quite concealed, here. If you doubt, encourage her to retract her word, and you’ll have an opportunity of judging!’
“我现在不太介意谈论他和蔼可亲的品质，”他回答道。 “因为她必须要么接受他，要么继续成为囚犯，而你和她一起，直到你的主人去世。我可以把你们俩关在这儿，非常隐蔽。如果你怀疑，鼓励她收回自己的话，你就有机会做出判断！

‘I’ll not retract my word,’ said Catherine. ‘I’ll marry him within this hour, if I may go to Thrushcross Grange afterwards. Mr. Heathcliff, you’re a cruel man, but you’re not a fiend; and you won’t, from MERE malice, destroy irrevocably all my happiness. If papa thought I had left him on purpose, and if he died before I returned, could I bear to live? I’ve given over crying: but I’m going to kneel here, at your knee; and I’ll not get up, and I’ll not take my eyes from your face till you look back at me! No, don’t turn away! DO LOOK! you’ll see nothing to provoke you. I don’t hate you. I’m not angry that you struck me. Have you never loved ANYBODY in all your life, uncle? NEVER? Ah! you must look once. I’m so wretched, you can’t help being sorry and pitying me.’
“我不会收回我的诺言，”凯瑟琳说。 “如果我之后可以去画眉田庄的话，我会在这个小时内嫁给他。”希刺克厉夫先生，你是个残忍的人，但你不是恶魔；你是个残忍的人。你不会仅仅因为恶意就不可挽回地摧毁我所有的幸福。如果爸爸认为我是故意离开他的，如果他在我回来之前就死了，我还能活下去吗？我已经不再哭了：但我要跪在这里，在你的膝边；我不会站起来，也不会把目光从你的脸上移开，直到你回头看我！不，不要转身！一定要看！你会发现没有什么可以激怒你。我不恨你。我并不因为你打我而生气。叔叔，你这辈子从来没有爱过任何人吗？绝不？啊!你必须看一次。我这么可怜，你不能不对不起我、可怜我。”

‘Keep your eft’s fingers off; and move, or I’ll kick you!’ cried Heathcliff, brutally repulsing her. ‘I’d rather be hugged by a snake. How the devil can you dream of fawning on me? I DETEST you!’
‘别动你的手指；走开，不然我就踢你！”希刺克厉夫大声喊道，残酷地拒绝了她。 “我宁愿被蛇拥抱。”你怎么能梦想着巴结我呢？我讨厌你！

He shrugged his shoulders: shook himself, indeed, as if his flesh crept with aversion; and thrust back his chair; while I got up, and opened my mouth, to commence a downright torrent of abuse. But I was rendered dumb in the middle of the first sentence, by a threat that I should be shown into a room by myself the very next syllable I uttered. It was growing dark we heard a sound of voices at the garden-gate. Our host hurried out instantly: HE had his wits about him; WE had not. There was a talk of two or three minutes, and he returned alone.
他耸耸肩：确实，他浑身颤抖着，仿佛他的肉体因厌恶而蠕动。然后把椅子往后一推；我站起来，张开嘴，开始了一场彻头彻尾的辱骂。但在第一句话的中间，我就哑口无言了，因为在我说出下一个音节时，我就被威胁要把我自己带进一个房间。天渐渐黑了，我们听到花园门口有说话的声音。我们的主人立刻就急忙出去了：他很有智慧；他很聪明。我们没有。聊了两三分钟，他就独自回来了。

‘I thought it had been your cousin Hareton,’ I observed to Catherine. ‘I wish he would arrive! Who knows but he might take our part?’
“我以为那是你的表弟哈里顿，”我对凯瑟琳说道。 ‘我希望他能来！谁知道他是否会支持我们呢？

‘It was three servants sent to seek you from the Grange,’ said Heathcliff, overhearing me. ‘You should have opened a lattice and called out: but I could swear that chit is glad you didn’t. She’s glad to be obliged to stay, I’m certain.’
“是三个仆人从田庄派来找你的，”希刺克厉夫无意中听到我说。 “你应该打开一个格子并大声喊叫：但我可以发誓那只小家伙很高兴你没有这样做。我敢肯定，她很高兴被迫留下来。”

At learning the chance we had missed, we both gave vent to our grief without control; and he allowed us to wail on till nine o’clock. Then he bid us go upstairs, through the kitchen, to Zillah’s chamber; and I whispered my companion to obey: perhaps we might contrive to get through the window there, or into a garret, and out by its skylight. The window, however, was narrow, like those below, and the garret trap was safe from our attempts; for we were fastened in as before. We neither of us lay down: Catherine took her station by the lattice, and watched anxiously for morning; a deep sigh being the only answer I could obtain to my frequent entreaties that she would try to rest. I seated myself in a chair, and rocked to and fro, passing harsh judgment on my many derelictions of duty; from which, it struck me then, all the misfortunes of my employers sprang. It was not the case, in reality, I am aware; but it was, in my imagination, that dismal night; and I thought Heathcliff himself less guilty than I.
当得知我们错过了这个机会时，我们都无法控制地发泄着悲伤。他让我们哭到九点。然后他吩咐我们上楼，穿过厨房，来到齐拉的房间。我低声吩咐我的同伴服从：也许我们可以设法从那里的窗户进去，或者进入阁楼，从天窗出去。然而，窗户很窄，就像下面的窗户一样，阁楼陷阱对我们的尝试来说是安全的。因为我们像以前一样被固定住了。我们俩都没有躺下：凯瑟琳站在格子旁，焦急地等待着黎明。对于我不断恳求她休息一下，我唯一能得到的答复是深深地叹了口气。我坐在椅子上，身体前后摇晃，对自己的许多失职行为进行了严厉的评判。当时我突然意识到，我雇主的所有不幸都源于此。我知道事实并非如此。但在我的想象中，那是一个凄凉的夜晚；我认为希刺克厉夫本人的罪责比我轻。

At seven o’clock he came, and inquired if Miss Linton had risen. She ran to the door immediately, and answered, ‘Yes.’ ‘Here, then,’ he said, opening it, and pulling her out. I rose to follow, but he turned the lock again. I demanded my release.
七点钟他来了，询问林顿小姐是否起床了。她立即​​跑到门口，回答说：“是的。”“那就在这里，”他说，打开门，把她拉了出去。我起身跟随，但他又转动了锁。我要求释放我。

‘Be patient,’ he replied; ‘I’ll send up your breakfast in a while.’
“要有耐心，”他回答道。 “我一会儿就给你送早餐。”

I thumped on the panels, and rattled the latch angrily and Catherine asked why I was still shut up? He answered, I must try to endure it another hour, and they went away. I endured it two or three hours; at length, I heard a footstep: not Heathcliff’s.
我重重地敲击面板，愤怒地将门闩摇得嘎嘎作响，凯瑟琳问我为什么还被关起来？他回答说，我必须再忍一小时，然后他们就走了。我忍了两三个小时；最后，我听到了脚步声：不是希刺克厉夫的。

‘I’ve brought you something to eat,’ said a voice; ‘oppen t’ door!’
“我给你带了点吃的。”一个声音说道。 ‘开门！’

Complying eagerly, I beheld Hareton, laden with food enough to last me all day.
我急切地照办，看到哈里顿满载着足够我吃一整天的食物。

‘Tak’ it,’ he added, thrusting the tray into my hand.
‘拿’它，”他补充道，把托盘塞到我手里。

‘Stay one minute,’ I began.
“等一分钟，”我开始说道。

‘Nay,’ cried he, and retired, regardless of any prayers I could pour forth to detain him.
“不，”他喊道，然后退了出去，不管我如何祈祷留住他。

And there I remained enclosed the whole day, and the whole of the next night; and another, and another. Five nights and four days I remained, altogether, seeing nobody but Hareton once every morning; and he was a model of a jailor: surly, and dumb, and deaf to every attempt at moving his sense of justice or compassion.
我整天和第二天晚上都被关在里面。又一个，又一个。我一共待了四天五夜，每天早上除了哈里顿以外谁也见不到。他是狱卒的典范：脾气暴躁、沉默寡言，对任何激发他正义感或同情心的尝试充耳不闻。

Chapter XXVIII
第二十八章

ON the fifth morning, or rather afternoon, a different step approached lighter and shorter; and, this time, the person entered the room. It was Zillah; donned in her scarlet shawl, with a black silk bonnet on her head, and a willow-basket swung to her arm.
第五天早上，或者更确切地说是下午，迈出了不同的一步，变得更轻、更短。而这一次，这个人也进入了房间。是齐拉。披着猩红色的披肩，头上戴着黑色丝质帽子，胳膊上挎着一个柳篮。

‘Eh, dear! Mrs. Dean!’ she exclaimed. ‘Well! there is a talk about you at Gimmerton. I never thought but you were sunk in the Blackhorse marsh, and missy with you, till master told me you’d been found, and he’d lodged you here! What! and you must have got on an island, sure? And how long were you in the hole? Did master save you, Mrs. Dean? But you’re not so thin you’ve not been so poorly, have you?’
‘呃，亲爱的！ “迪恩太太！”她喊道。 '出色地！吉默顿有一次关于你的谈话。我没想到你竟然沉入了黑马沼泽，并且和你在一起，直到主人告诉我你被发现了，并且他把你安置在这里！什么！你肯定已经到了一个岛上了，是吗？你在洞里呆了多久？迪恩夫人，师父救了你吗？但你并没有那么瘦，身体也没有那么糟糕，不是吗？

‘Your master is a true scoundrel!’ I replied. ‘But he shall answer for it. He needn’t have raised that tale: it shall all be laid bare!’
“你的主人是个真正的恶棍！”我回答道。 “但他必须对此负责。”他不必提起这个故事：一切都将被揭露！

‘What do you mean?’ asked Zillah. ‘It’s not his tale: they tell that in the village about your being lost in the marsh; and I calls to Earnshaw, when I come in ‘Eh, they’s queer things, Mr. Hareton, happened since I went off. It’s a sad pity of that likely young lass, and cant Nelly Dean.’ He stared. I thought he had not heard aught, so I told him the rumour. The master listened, and he just smiled to himself, and said, ‘If they have been in the marsh, they are out now, Zillah. Nelly Dean is lodged, at this minute, in your room. You can tell her to flit, when you go up; here is the key. The bog-water got into her head, and she would have run home quite flighty; but I fixed her till she came round to her senses. You can bid her go to the Grange at once, if she be able, and carry a message from me, that her young lady will follow in time to attend the squire’s funeral.‘‘
“你什么意思？”齐拉问道。 “这不是他的故事：村里的人都说你在沼泽地里迷路了；当我进来时，我打电话给恩肖：“呃，这些事情很奇怪，哈里顿先生，自从我走后就发生了。”这对那个可能年轻的姑娘来说是一个可悲的遗憾，而耐莉·迪恩却不能。”他凝视着。我以为他什么也没听到，就把这个传闻告诉了他。大师听了，只是自顾自地笑了笑，说道：“如果他们之前在沼泽里，那么现在他们就出来了，齐拉。”耐莉·迪恩此刻住在您的房间里。当你上升时，你可以告诉她飞翔；这是关键。沼泽水进入了她的头脑，她会轻飘飘地跑回家；但我还是固定了她，直到她清醒过来。如果可以的话，你可以吩咐她立刻去田庄，并带去我的口信，让她的小姐及时跟去参加乡绅的葬礼。”

‘Mr. Edgar is not dead?’ I gasped. ‘Oh! Zillah, Zillah!’
'先生。 “埃德加没有死吗？”我喘息道。 '哦！齐拉，齐拉！’

‘No, no; sit you down, my good mistress,’ she replied; ‘you’re right sickly yet. He’s not dead; Doctor Kenneth thinks he may last another day. I met him on the road and asked.’
'不，不; “请坐下，我的好女主人，”她回答道。 ‘你还病得不轻呢。他没有死；他没有死。肯尼斯医生认为他还能再坚持一天。我在路上遇见了他并询问了他。

Instead of sitting down, I snatched my outdoor things, and hastened below, for the way was free. On entering the house, I looked about for some one to give information of Catherine. The place was filled with sunshine, and the door stood wide open; but nobody seemed at hand. As I hesitated whether to go off at once, or return and seek my mistress, a slight cough drew my attention to the hearth. Linton lay on the settle, sole tenant, sucking a stick of sugar-candy, and pursuing my movements with apathetic eyes. ‘Where is Miss Catherine?’ I demanded sternly, supposing I could frighten him into giving intelligence, by catching him thus, alone. He sucked on like an innocent.
我没有坐下来，而是抓起了户外的东西，急忙跑到下面，因为路是免费的。一进屋，我就四处寻找可以提供凯瑟琳信息的人。这个地方充满了阳光，门敞开着；但附近似乎没有人。当我犹豫是立即离开，还是回去寻找我的女主人时，一阵轻微的咳嗽把我的注意力吸引到了壁炉上。林惇躺在唯一的房客长椅上，吮吸着一根糖果，冷漠地注视着我的动作。 “凯瑟琳小姐在哪里？”我严厉地问道，以为我可以通过抓住他单独一人来吓唬他提供情报。他像个无辜者一样吮吸着。

‘Is she gone?’ I said.
“她走了吗？”我说。

‘No,’ he replied; ‘she’s upstairs: she’s not to go; we won’t let her.’
“不，”他回答道。 ‘她在楼上：她不能去；我们不会让她这么做的。

‘You won’t let her, little idiot!’ I exclaimed. ‘Direct me to her room immediately, or I’ll make you sing out sharply.’
“你不会让她这么做的，小白痴！”我喊道。 “立即带我去她的房间，否则我会让你大声唱歌。”

‘Papa would make you sing out, if you attempted to get there,’ he answered. ‘He says I’m not to be soft with Catherine: she’s my wife, and it’s shameful that she should wish to leave me. He says she hates me and wants me to die, that she may have my money; but she shan’t have it: and she shan’t go home! She never shall! she may cry, and be sick as much as she pleases!’
“如果你试图去那里，爸爸会让你唱歌，”他回答道。 “他说我不能对凯瑟琳手软：她是我的妻子，她想要离开我是可耻的。”他说她恨我，想让我死，这样她就能得到我的钱；但她不会拥有它：而且她不会回家！她永远不会！她可以哭，想生病就生病！

He resumed his former occupation, closing his lids, as if he meant to drop asleep.
他又恢复了原来的工作，合上眼睑，仿佛要睡着了。

‘Master Heathcliff,’ I resumed, ‘have you forgotten all Catherine’s kindness to you last winter, when you affirmed you loved her, and when she brought you books and sung you songs, and came many a time through wind and snow to see you? She wept to miss one evening, because you would be disappointed; and you felt then that she was a hundred times too good to you: and now you believe the lies your father tells, though you know he detests you both. And you join him against her. That’s fine gratitude, is it not?’
“希刺克厉夫少爷，”我继续说道，“您是否已经忘记了去年冬天凯瑟琳对您的所有善意，当时您确认自己爱她，当时她给您带来书籍，为您唱歌，并多次冒着风雪来见您。 ？她哭着错过了一个晚上，因为你会失望的；那时你觉得她对你太好了一百倍：现在你相信你父亲所说的谎言，尽管你知道他讨厌你们俩。你和他一起对抗她。这是很好的感激之情，不是吗？

The corner of Linton’s mouth fell, and he took the sugar-candy from his lips.
林惇嘴角一垂，将嘴边的糖拿了出来。

‘Did she come to Wuthering Heights because she hated you?’ I continued. ‘Think for yourself! As to your money, she does not even know that you will have any. And you say she’s sick; and yet you leave her alone, up there in a strange house! You who have felt what it is to be so neglected! You could pity your own sufferings; and she pitied them, too; but you won’t pity hers! I shed tears, Master Heathcliff, you see an elderly woman, and a servant merely and you, after pretending such affection, and having reason to worship her almost, store every tear you have for yourself, and lie there quite at ease. Ah! you’re a heartless, selfish boy!’
“她来呼啸山庄是因为恨你吗？”我继续说道。 '为你自己想想！至于你的钱，她根本不知道你会有钱。你说她病了；但你却把她一个人留在了陌生的房子里！你已经感受到了被如此忽视的滋味！你可以怜悯自己的痛苦；她也可怜他们；但你不会怜悯她的！我流下了眼泪，希刺克厉夫少爷，你看到的只是一位老妇人，还有一个仆人，而你，在假装如此喜爱之后，几乎有理由崇拜她，把你所有的眼泪都留给自己，然后很轻松地躺在那里。啊!你是一个无情、自私的男孩！

‘I can’t stay with her,’ he answered crossly. ‘I’ll not stay by myself. She cries so I can’t bear it. And she won’t give over, though I say I’ll call my father. I did call him once, and he threatened to strangle her if she was not quiet; but she began again the instant he left the room, moaning and grieving all night long, though I screamed for vexation that I couldn’t sleep.’
“我不能和她呆在一起，”他生气地回答。 ‘我不会一个人呆着。她哭得我无法忍受。尽管我说我会打电话给我父亲，但她不会放弃。我确实给他打过一次电话，他威胁说如果她不安静就掐死她。但他一离开房间，她就又开始了，整个晚上都在呻吟和悲伤，尽管我因无法入睡而烦恼地尖叫。

‘Is Mr. Heathcliff out?’ I inquired, perceiving that the wretched creature had no power to sympathize with his cousin’s mental tortures.
“希斯克利夫先生出去了吗？”我问道，意识到这个可怜的家伙没有能力同情他表弟的精神折磨。

‘He’s in the court,’ he replied, ‘talking to Doctor Kenneth; who says uncle is dying, truly, at last. I’m glad, for I shall be master of the Grange after him. Catherine always spoke of it as her house. It isn’t hers! It’s mine: papa says everything she has is mine. All her nice books are mine; she offered to give me them, and her pretty birds, and her pony Minny, if I would get the key of our room, and let her out; but I told her she had nothing to give, they ware all, all mine. And then she cried, and took a little picture from her neck, and said I should have that; two pictures in a gold case, on one side her mother, and on the other uncle, when they were young. That was yesterday I said they were mine, too; and tried to get them from her. The spiteful thing wouldn’t let me: she pushed me off, and hurt me. I shrieked out that frightens her she heard papa coming, and she broke the hinges and divided the case, and gave me her mother’s portrait; the other she attempted to hide: but papa asked what was the matter, and I explained it. He took the one I had away, and ordered her to resign hers to me; she refused, and he he struck her down, and wrenched it off the chain, and crushed it with his foot.’
“他在法庭上，”他回答道，“正在和肯尼思医生谈话；谁说叔叔真的要死了。我很高兴，因为我将成为他之后田庄的主人。凯瑟琳总是把它称为她的房子。这不是她的！这是我的：爸爸说她拥有的一切都是我的。她所有的好书都是我的；她提出把它们、她漂亮的小鸟和她的小马明妮都给我，只要我能拿到我们房间的钥匙，并让她出去。但我告诉她她没有什么可以给予的，它们都是我的。然后她哭了，从脖子上取下了一张小照片，说我应该拥有它。金盒里装着两张照片，一侧是她母亲，另一侧是叔叔年轻时的照片。就在昨天，我说它们也是我的；并试图从她那里得到它们。那恶毒的东西不让我这么做：她把我推开，伤害了我。我尖叫起来，这吓坏了她，她听到爸爸来了，她打破了铰链，分开了箱子，给了我她母亲的肖像；她试图隐藏另一个：但爸爸问发生了什么事，我解释了它。他拿走了我的那一份，并命令她把她的那一份交给我。她拒绝了，他把她打倒了，把它从链子上扯了下来，然后用脚踩碎了它。

‘And were you pleased to see her struck?’ I asked: having my designs in encouraging his talk.
“看到她被击中，你高兴吗？”我问道：我的目的是鼓励他说话。

‘I winked,’ he answered: ‘I wink to see my father strike a dog or a horse, he does it so hard. Yet I was glad at first she deserved punishing for pushing me: but when papa was gone, she made me come to the window and showed me her cheek cut on the inside, against her teeth, and her mouth filling with blood; and then she gathered up the bits of the picture, and went and sat down with her face to the wall, and she has never spoken to me since: and I sometimes think she can’t speak for pain. I don’t like to think so; but she’s a naughty thing for crying continually; and she looks so pale and wild, I’m afraid of her.’
“我眨了眨眼，”他回答道，“我眨眼是为了看到我父亲打狗或马，他打得很厉害。”然而，一开始我很高兴她因为推我而受到惩罚：但是当爸爸走了之后，她让我来到窗前，让我看到她的脸颊内侧被牙齿咬破，嘴里充满了血；然后她把照片的碎片收集起来，走过去，脸贴着墙坐下来，从那以后她再也没有跟我说过话：有时我想她因为痛苦而无法说话。我不喜欢这样认为；但她很调皮，总是哭。她看起来那么苍白、狂野，我很害怕她。”

‘And you can get the key if you choose?’ I said.
“如果你愿意的话，你就能拿到钥匙吗？”我说。

‘Yes, when I am up-stairs,’ he answered; ‘but I can’t walk upstairs now.’
“是的，当我在楼上的时候，”他回答道。 “但我现在不能上楼。”

‘In what apartment is it?’ I asked.
“在哪间公寓里？”我问。

‘Oh,’ he cried, ‘I shan’t tell YOU where it is. It is our secret. Nobody, neither Hareton nor Zillah, is to know. There! you’ve tired me go away, go away!’ And he turned his face on to his arm, and shut his eyes again.
“哦，”他喊道，“我不会告诉你它在哪里。”这是我们的秘密。没有人知道，无论是哈里顿还是齐拉。那里！你累坏了我，走开，走开！”他把脸转向手臂，再次闭上眼睛。

I considered it best to depart without seeing Mr. Heathcliff, and bring a rescue for my young lady from the Grange. On reaching it, the astonishment of my fellow-servants to see me, and their joy also, was intense; and when they heard that their little mistress was safe, two or three were about to hurry up and shout the news at Mr. Edgar’s door: but I bespoke the announcement of it myself. How changed I found him, even in those few days! He lay an image of sadness and resignation awaiting his death. Very young he looked: though his actual age was thirty-nine, one would have called him ten years younger, at least. He thought of Catherine; for he murmured her name. I touched his hand, and spoke.
我认为最好不去见希刺克厉夫先生就离开，并从农庄带去营救我的年轻女士。到达那里后，我的仆人们看到我都感到非常惊讶，同时也感到非常高兴。当他们听说他们的小情妇安全了时，有两三个人正想赶紧冲到埃德加先生的门口喊出这个消息：但我亲自宣布了这一消息。即使在那几天里，我发现他发生了多么大的变化！他给人留下了等待死亡的悲伤和顺从的印象。他看起来很年轻，虽然他的实际年龄是三十九岁，但如果说他至少年轻了十岁。他想到了凯瑟琳；因为他低声呼唤着她的名字。我摸了摸他的手，说道。

‘Catherine is coming, dear master!’ I whispered; ‘she is alive and well; and will be here, I hope, to-night.’
“凯瑟琳来了，亲爱的主人！”我低声说道。 ‘她还活着，活得很好；我希望今晚会在这里。

I trembled at the first effects of this intelligence: he half rose up, looked eagerly round the apartment, and then sank back in a swoon. As soon as he recovered, I related our compulsory visit, and detention at the Heights. I said Heathcliff forced me to go in: which was not quite true. I uttered as little as possible against Linton; nor did I describe all his father’s brutal conduct my intentions being to add no bitterness, if I could help it, to his already over-flowing cup.
我对这个情报的第一反应感到颤抖：他半站起来，热切地环视着公寓，然后又昏倒了。他一康复，我就讲述了我们的强制探访以及在高地的拘留。我说希刺克厉夫强迫我进去：这并不完全正确。我尽量少说反对林惇的话。我也没有描述他父亲的所有残暴行为，我的目的是，如果我能帮助的话，不要给他已经满溢的杯子增添苦涩。

He divined that one of his enemy’s purposes was to secure the personal property, as well as the estate, to his son: or rather himself; yet why he did not wait till his decease was a puzzle to my master, because ignorant how nearly he and his nephew would quit the world together. However, he felt that his will had better be altered: instead of leaving Catherine’s fortune at her own disposal, he determined to put it in the hands of trustees for her use during life, and for her children, if she had any, after her. By that means, it could not fall to Mr. Heathcliff should Linton die.
他推测敌人的目的之一是保护他的儿子（或者更确切地说是他自己）的个人财产以及遗产；但他为什么不等到他去世的时候，却让我的主人感到困惑，因为他不知道他和他的侄子差点就要一起离开这个世界。然而，他觉得自己的遗嘱最好改变一下：他决定将凯瑟琳的财产交给受托人，供她生前使用，并在她死后为她的孩子（如果有的话）使用，而不是将其留给她自己支配。 。这样一来，即使林惇死了，这个责任也不能落到希刺克厉夫先生的头上。

Having received his orders, I despatched a man to fetch the attorney, and four more, provided with serviceable weapons, to demand my young lady of her jailor. Both parties were delayed very late. The single servant returned first. He said Mr. Green, the lawyer, was out when he arrived at his house, and he had to wait two hours for his re-entrance; and then Mr. Green told him he had a little business in the village that must be done; but he would be at Thrushcross Grange before morning. The four men came back unaccompanied also. They brought word that Catherine was ill: too ill to quit her room; and Heathcliff would not suffer them to see her. I scolded the stupid fellows well for listening to that tale, which I would not carry to my master; resolving to take a whole bevy up to the Heights, at day-light, and storm it literally, unless the prisoner were quietly surrendered to us. Her father SHALL see her, I vowed, and vowed again, if that devil be killed on his own doorstones in trying to prevent it!
接到他的命令后，我派了一个人去接律师，又派了四个人，带着可用的武器，去要求我的年轻女士找到她的狱卒。双方都耽误得很晚。唯一的仆人先回来了。他说，当他到达他家时，律师格林先生外出了，他必须等两个小时才能再次进来；然后格林先生告诉他，他在村里有一件小事必须处理。但他会在早上之前到达画眉田庄。这四人也无人陪伴地回来了。他们带来了凯瑟琳病了的消息：病得太重，无法离开她的房间；希刺克厉夫不肯让他们见她。我严厉斥责了那些听了这个故事的愚蠢家伙，但我不会把这个故事告诉我的主人。决心在白天带领一大群人上高地，真正地猛攻它，除非囚犯悄悄地向我们投降。她的父亲一定会见到她，我发誓，并再次发誓，如果那个恶魔在他自己的门石上被杀死并试图阻止它的话！

Happily, I was spared the journey and the trouble. I had gone down-stairs at three o’clock to fetch a jug of water; and was passing through the hall with it in my hand, when a sharp knock at the front door made me jump. ‘Oh! it is Green,’ I said, recollecting myself ‘only Green,’ and I went on, intending to send somebody else to open it; but the knock was repeated: not loud, and still importunately. I put the jug on the banister and hastened to admit him myself. The harvest moon shone clear outside. It was not the attorney. My own sweet little mistress sprang on my neck sobbing, ‘Ellen, Ellen! Is papa alive?’
幸运的是，我省去了旅途和麻烦。三点钟我下楼去拿一壶水。当我手里拿着它穿过大厅时，前门突然响起一阵敲门声，把我吓了一跳。 '哦！它是绿色的，”我说，回忆起自己“只有绿色”，然后我继续说，打算派其他人来打开它。但敲门声又响了：声音不大，但仍然很急切。我把罐子放在栏杆上，赶紧亲自进去招呼他。外面的月亮明亮地照耀着。不是律师。我可爱的小情妇跳到我脖子上抽泣着，‘艾伦，艾伦！爸爸还活着吗？

‘Yes,’ I cried: ‘yes, my angel, he is, God be thanked, you are safe with us again!’
“是的，”我喊道：“是的，我的天使，他是，感谢上帝，你又安全地和我们在一起了！”

She wanted to run, breathless as she was, up-stairs to Mr. Linton’s room; but I compelled her to sit down on a chair, and made her drink, and washed her pale face, chafing it into a faint colour with my apron. Then I said I must go first, and tell of her arrival; imploring her to say, she should be happy with young Heathcliff. She stared, but soon comprehending why I counselled her to utter the falsehood, she assured me she would not complain.
尽管她气喘吁吁，她还是想跑到楼上林惇先生的房间去。但我强迫她坐在椅子上，让她喝了水，洗了她苍白的脸，用围裙把它擦成了淡淡的颜色。然后我说我必须先走，并告诉她她的到来。恳求她说，她应该和年轻的希斯克利夫在一起幸福。她盯着我看，但很快就明白了我为什么劝她说谎，她向我保证她不会抱怨。

I couldn’t abide to be present at their meeting. I stood outside the chamber-door a quarter of an hour, and hardly ventured near the bed, then. All was composed, however: Catherine’s despair was as silent as her father’s joy. She supported him calmly, in appearance; and he fixed on her features his raised eyes that seemed dilating with ecstasy.
我无法忍受出席他们的会议。我在房门外站了一刻钟，几乎不敢靠近床边。然而，一切都很平静：凯瑟琳的绝望和她父亲的喜悦一样沉默。她表面上平静地支持着他，但实际上却是这样。他扬起的眼睛注视着她的容貌，似乎因狂喜而放大。

He died blissfully, Mr. Lockwood: he died so. Kissing her cheek, he murmured, ‘I am going to her; and you, darling child, shall come to us!’ and never stirred or spoke again; but continued that rapt, radiant gaze, till his pulse imperceptibly stopped and his soul departed. None could have noticed the exact minute of his death, it was so entirely without a struggle.
他死得很幸福，洛克伍德先生：他就这样死了。他亲吻她的脸颊，低声说道：“我要去她那儿；我要去见她。”亲爱的孩子，你会到我们这里来的！”然后再也没有动弹或说话。但他继续那全神贯注、光芒四射的目光，直到他的脉搏不知不觉地停止了，他的灵魂也离开了。没有人能注意到他死亡的确切时间，完全没有挣扎。

Whether Catherine had spent her tears, or whether the grief were too weighty to let them flow, she sat there dry-eyed till the sun rose: she sat till noon, and would still have remained brooding over that deathbed, but I insisted on her coming away and taking some repose. It was well I succeeded in removing her, for at dinner-time appeared the lawyer, having called at Wuthering Heights to get his instructions how to behave. He had sold himself to Mr. Heathcliff: that was the cause of his delay in obeying my master’s summons. Fortunately, no thought of worldly affairs crossed the latter’s mind, to disturb him, after his daughter’s arrival.
凯瑟琳是否已经流尽了泪水，或者悲伤是否太重而无法流淌，她干着眼睛坐在那里，直到太阳升起：她坐到中午，仍然会在临终的床上沉思，但我坚持要她离开并休息一下。幸亏我成功地把她带走了，因为晚餐时间律师出现了，他已经到呼啸山庄请教如何行事。他把自己卖给了希刺克厉夫先生：这就是他迟迟不服从我主人召唤的原因。幸运的是，女儿到来后，他的脑海里并没有世俗的事情打扰他。

Mr. Green took upon himself to order everything and everybody about the place. He gave all the servants but me, notice to quit. He would have carried his delegated authority to the point of insisting that Edgar Linton should not be buried beside his wife, but in the chapel, with his family. There was the will, however, to hinder that, and my loud protestations against any infringement of its directions. The funeral was hurried over; Catherine, Mrs. Linton Heathcliff now, was suffered to stay at the Grange till her father’s corpse had quitted it.
格林先生亲自指挥了这个地方的一切和每个人。他通知除我以外的所有仆人都辞职。他会行使他所授予的权力，坚持认为埃德加·林惇不应该埋在他妻子的旁边，而应该埋在教堂里，与他的家人在一起。然而，我有意愿阻止这一点，并且我对任何违反其指示的行为提出大声抗议。葬礼匆匆举行。凯瑟琳，现在的林惇·希刺克厉夫夫人，被迫留在农庄，直到她父亲的尸体离开为止。

She told me that her anguish had at last spurred Linton to incur the risk of liberating her. She heard the men I sent disputing at the door, and she gathered the sense of Heathcliff’s answer. It drove her desperate. Linton who had been conveyed up to the little parlour soon after I left, was terrified into fetching the key before his father re-ascended. He had the cunning to unlock and re-lock the door, without shutting it; and when he should have gone to bed, he begged to sleep with Hareton, and his petition was granted for once. Catherine stole out before break of day. She dared not try the doors lest the dogs should raise an alarm; she visited the empty chambers and examined their windows; and, luckily, lighting on her mother’s, she got easily out of its lattice, and on to the ground, by means of the fir-tree close by. Her accomplice suffered for his share in the escape, notwithstanding his timid contrivances.
她告诉我，她的痛苦最终促使林惇冒着解放她的风险。她听见我派来的人在门口争论，她听出了希刺克厉夫回答的意思。这让她绝望了。我离开后不久，林惇就被送到了小客厅，他害怕在他父亲重新上楼之前去取钥匙。他很狡猾地打开门又重新锁上，但没有关上门。当他应该上床睡觉时，他请求和哈里顿一起睡觉，他的请求这一次得到了批准。天亮前凯瑟琳偷偷溜了出去。她不敢尝试开门，以免狗发出警报。她参观了空荡荡的房间，检查了窗户。幸运的是，她照着她母亲的，很容易就从格子里爬了出来，借助附近的枞树落在了地上。尽管她的同伙胆怯地采取了一些诡计，但他还是在逃跑过程中遭受了痛苦。

Chapter XXIX
第二十九章

THE evening after the funeral, my young lady and I were seated in the library; now musing mournfully one of us despairingly on our loss, now venturing conjectures as to the gloomy future.
葬礼结束后的那天晚上，我和我的小姐坐在图书馆里。现在我们中的一个人对我们的损失感到绝望，现在悲伤地沉思，现在冒险猜测悲惨的未来。

We had just agreed the best destiny which could await Catherine would be a permission to continue resident at the Grange; at least during Linton’s life: he being allowed to join her there, and I to remain as housekeeper. That seemed rather too favourable an arrangement to be hoped for; and yet I did hope, and began to cheer up under the prospect of retaining my home and my employment, and, above all, my beloved young mistress; when a servant one of the discarded ones, not yet departed rushed hastily in, and said ‘that devil Heathcliff’ was coming through the court: should he fasten the door in his face?
我们刚刚商定，等待凯瑟琳的最好命运就是允许她继续住在农庄；至少在林惇的一生中是这样：他被允许和她一起去那里，而我则继续担任管家。这似乎是一种过于有利的安排，令人不抱希望。然而，我确实抱有希望，并开始为保住我的家和我的工作，尤其是我心爱的年轻情妇的前景感到高兴。当被遗弃的仆人中的一个尚未离开的仆人匆忙冲进来时，说“那个魔鬼希刺克厉夫”正穿过法庭：他应该当着他的面把门关上吗？

If we had been mad enough to order that proceeding, we had not time. He made no ceremony of knocking or announcing his name: he was master, and availed himself of the master’s privilege to walk straight in, without saying a word. The sound of our informant’s voice directed him to the library; he entered and motioning him out, shut the door.
如果我们疯狂到下令采取这样的行动，我们就没有时间了。他没有敲门或报名的仪式：他是主人，他利用主人的特权，一言不发地径直走进去。我们的线人的声音把他引向了图书馆。他进来了，示意他出去，然后关上了门。

It was the same room into which he had been ushered, as a guest, eighteen years before: the same moon shone through the window; and the same autumn landscape lay outside. We had not yet lighted a candle, but all the apartment was visible, even to the portraits on the wall: the splendid head of Mrs. Linton, and the graceful one of her husband. Heathcliff advanced to the hearth. Time had little altered his person either. There was the same man: his dark face rather sallower and more composed, his frame a stone or two heavier, perhaps, and no other difference. Catherine had risen with an impulse to dash out, when she saw him.
这还是十八年前他作为客人被引入的那个房间：同样的月亮从窗户照进来；同样的月亮从窗户里射进来。外面也是同样的秋天风景。我们还没有点起蜡烛，但整个公寓都清晰可见，甚至连墙上的肖像也清晰可见：林惇夫人华丽的头像和她丈夫优雅的头像。希刺克厉夫走到壁炉边。时间也没有改变他的性格。还是同一个人：他黝黑的脸色更加蜡黄，更加镇定，他的身躯也许重了一两石，除此之外没有其他区别。凯瑟琳一看到他，就起身想要冲出去。

‘Stop!’ he said, arresting her by the arm. ‘No more runnings away! Where would you go? I’m come to fetch you home; and I hope you’ll be a dutiful daughter and not encourage my son to further disobedience. I was embarrassed how to punish him when I discovered his part in the business: he’s such a cobweb, a pinch would annihilate him; but you’ll see by his look that he has received his due! I brought him down one evening, the day before yesterday, and just set him in a chair, and never touched him afterwards. I sent Hareton out, and we had the room to ourselves. In two hours, I called Joseph to carry him up again; and since then my presence is as potent on his nerves as a ghost; and I fancy he sees me often, though I am not near. Hareton says he wakes and shrieks in the night by the hour together, and calls you to protect him from me; and, whether you like your precious mate, or not, you must come: he’s your concern now; I yield all my interest in him to you.’
“停下！”他说着，抓住了她的手臂。 ‘别再逃跑了！你会去哪儿？我来接你回家；希望你做一个孝顺的女儿，不要怂恿我儿子再不听话。当我发现他在这个行业中所扮演的角色时，我为如何惩罚他而感到尴尬：他真是一个蜘蛛网，捏一捏就会消灭他；但从他的表情你就知道他已经得到了他应得的！前天的一个晚上，我把他抱下来，只是把他放在椅子上，之后就再也没有碰过他。我把哈里顿送了出去，我们就独享了这个房间。两个小时后，我又叫约瑟夫把他抬上去；从那时起，我的存在就像幽灵一样对他的神经产生了强烈的影响。我想他经常见到我，尽管我不在附近。哈里顿说他在夜里按时醒来并尖叫，并打电话给你来保护他免受我的伤害；而且，无论你是否喜欢你的宝贝伴侣，你都必须来：他现在是你关心的人；我把我对他的所有兴趣都交给你了。

‘Why not let Catherine continue here,’ I pleaded, ‘and send Master Linton to her? As you hate them both, you’d not miss them: they can only be a daily plague to your unnatural heart.’
“为什么不让凯瑟琳继续留在这里，”我恳求道，“然后派林惇少爷去找她呢？”既然你讨厌他们两个，你就不会想念他们：他们只能成为你不自然的心每天的瘟疫。

‘I’m seeking a tenant for the Grange,’ he answered; ‘and I want my children about me, to be sure. Besides, that lass owes me her services for her bread. I’m not going to nurture her in luxury and idleness after Linton is gone. Make haste and get ready, now; and don’t oblige me to compel you.’
“我正在为田庄寻找一个房客，”他回答道。 “当然，我希望我的孩子们在我身边。再说了，那个姑娘还欠我一份面包。林惇走后，我不会再奢侈、闲​​散地养育她。现在就赶快做好准备吧；不要强迫我强迫你。

‘I shall,’ said Catherine. ‘Linton is all I have to love in the world, and though you have done what you could to make him hateful to me, and me to him, you cannot make us hate each other. And I defy you to hurt him when I am by, and I defy you to frighten me!’
“我会的，”凯瑟琳说。 “林惇是我在这个世界上所爱的人，虽然你已经尽了一切努力让我讨厌他，也让我讨厌他，但你不能让我们互相讨厌。我不相信你会在我旁边伤害他，也不相信你会吓唬我！

‘You are a boastful champion,’ replied Heathcliff; ‘but I don’t like you well enough to hurt him: you shall get the full benefit of the torment, as long as it lasts. It is not I who will make him hateful to you it is his own sweet spirit. He’s as bitter as gall at your desertion and its consequences: don’t expect thanks for this noble devotion. I heard him draw a pleasant picture to Zillah of what he would do if he were as strong as I: the inclination is there, and his very weakness will sharpen his wits to find a substitute for strength.’
“你是一个自夸的冠军，”希刺克厉夫回答道。 “但我不太喜欢你去伤害他：只要这种折磨持续下去，你就会从这种折磨中得到充分的好处。”不是我让你讨厌他，而是他自己可爱的灵魂。他对你的抛弃及其后果感到非常痛苦：不要指望你会因为这种崇高的奉献而得到感谢。我听到他向齐拉画了一幅令人愉快的图画，描绘了如果他像我一样坚强他会做什么：倾向就在那里，他的弱点会磨砺他的智慧，找到力量的替代品。

‘I know he has a bad nature,’ said Catherine: ‘he’s your son. But I’m glad I’ve a better, to forgive it; and I know he loves me, and for that reason I love him. Mr. Heathcliff YOU have NOBODY to love you; and, however miserable you make us, we shall still have the revenge of thinking that your cruelty arises from your greater misery. You ARE miserable, are you not? Lonely, like the devil, and envious like him? NOBODY loves you NOBODY will cry for you when you die! I wouldn’t be you!’
“我知道他本性不好，”凯瑟琳说，“他是你的儿子。”但我很高兴我有一个更好的选择，去原谅它；我知道他爱我，因此我也爱他。希刺克厉夫先生，你没有人爱你；而且，无论你让我们多么痛苦，我们仍然会认为你的残忍源于你更大的痛苦，从而进行报复。你很痛苦，不是吗？像魔鬼一样孤独，又像他一样嫉妒？没有人爱你，当你死时，没有人会为你哭泣！我不会是你！

Catherine spoke with a kind of dreary triumph: she seemed to have made up her mind to enter into the spirit of her future family, and draw pleasure from the griefs of her enemies.
凯瑟琳说话时带着一种沉闷的胜利：她似乎已经下定决心要融入她未来家庭的精神，并从她敌人的悲伤中汲取快乐。

‘You shall be sorry to be yourself presently,’ said her father-inlaw, ‘if you stand there another minute. Begone, witch, and get your things!’
“你现在就后悔了，”她的公公说，“如果你再站一会儿。”走吧，女巫，拿走你的东西！”

She scornfully withdrew. In her absence I began to beg for Zillah’s place at the Heights, offering to resign mine to her; but he would suffer it on no account. He bid me be silent; and then, for the first time, allowed himself a glance round the room and a look at the pictures. Having studied Mrs. Linton’s, he said ‘I shall have that home. Not because I need it, but ‘ He turned abruptly to the fire, and continued, with what, for lack of a better word, I must call a smile ‘I’ll tell you what I did yesterday! I got the sexton, who was digging Linton’s grave, to remove the earth off her coffin lid, and I opened it. I thought, once, I would have stayed there: when I saw her face again it is hers yet! he had hard work to stir me; but he said it would change if the air blew on it, and so I struck one side of the coffin loose, and covered it up: not Linton’s side, damn him! I wish he’d been soldered in lead. And I bribed the sexton to pull it away when I’m laid there, and slide mine out too; I’ll have it made so: and then by the time Linton gets to us he’ll not know which is which!’
她轻蔑地退了出去。她不在的时候，我开始乞求齐拉在高地的住处，并提出把我的位置让给她。但他决不会忍受这种痛苦。他叫我保持沉默；然后，第一次让自己环顾房间并看了一下照片。在研究了林惇夫人的家后，他说：“我将拥有那个家。”不是因为我需要它，而是‘他突然转向火，然后继续说道，因为找不到更好的词，我必须称之为微笑’我会告诉你我昨天做了什么！我让正在为林惇挖掘坟墓的教堂司事把棺材盖上的土移开，然后我打开了棺材盖。我曾经想过，我会呆在那里：当我再次看到她的脸时，那已经是她的了！他辛苦工作来激励我；但他说如果空气吹过它就会改变，所以我把棺材的一侧松动，然后把它盖起来：不是林惇的一侧，该死的他！我希望他是用铅焊接的。当我躺在那里时，我贿赂了教堂司事，让他把它拉开，然后把我的也滑了出来。我会让它这样做：然后当林惇到达我们身边时，他将不知道哪个是哪个！

‘You were very wicked, Mr. Heathcliff!’ I exclaimed; ‘were you not ashamed to disturb the dead?’
“你太邪恶了，希刺克厉夫先生！”我惊呼道。 “打扰死者你不觉得羞耻吗？”

‘I disturbed nobody, Nelly,’ he replied; ‘and I gave some ease to myself. I shall be a great deal more comfortable now; and you’ll have a better chance of keeping me underground, when I get there. Disturbed her? No! she has disturbed me, night and day, through eighteen years incessantly remorselessly till yesternight; and yesternight I was tranquil. I dreamt I was sleeping the last sleep by that sleeper, with my heart stopped and my cheek frozen against hers.’
“我没有打扰任何人，耐莉，”他回答道。 ’我也让自己放松了一些。现在我会舒服多了；当我到达那里时，你将有更好的机会将我留在地下。打扰她了？不！十八年来，她日日夜夜地不断地、无情地骚扰着我，直到昨天晚上。昨天晚上我很平静。我梦见我正睡在那个睡眠者的最后一觉中，我的心脏停止了跳动，我的脸颊紧贴着她的脸颊。

‘And if she had been dissolved into earth, or worse, what would you have dreamt of then?’ I said.
“如果她融入了地球，或者更糟，你会梦见什么？”我说。

‘Of dissolving with her, and being more happy still!’ he answered. ‘Do you suppose I dread any change of that sort? I expected such a transformation on raising the lid but I’m better pleased that it should not commence till I share it. Besides, unless I had received a distinct impression of her passionless features, that strange feeling would hardly have been removed. It began oddly. You know I was wild after she died; and eternally, from dawn to dawn, praying her to return to me her spirit! I have a strong faith in ghosts: I have a conviction that they can, and do, exist among us! The day she was buried, there came a fall of snow. In the evening I went to the churchyard. It blew bleak as winter all round was solitary. I didn’t fear that her fool of a husband would wander up the glen so late; and no one else had business to bring them there. Being alone, and conscious two yards of loose earth was the sole barrier between us, I said to myself ‘I’ll have her in my arms again! If she be cold, I’ll think it is this north wind that chills ME; and if she be motionless, it is sleep.’ I got a spade from the tool-house, and began to delve with all my might it scraped the coffin; I fell to work with my hands; the wood commenced cracking about the screws; I was on the point of attaining my object, when it seemed that I heard a sigh from some one above, close at the edge of the grave, and bending down. ‘If I can only get this off,’ I muttered, ‘I wish they may shovel in the earth over us both!’ and I wrenched at it more desperately still. There was another sigh, close at my ear. I appeared to feel the warm breath of it displacing the sleet-laden wind. I knew no living thing in flesh and blood was by; but, as certainly as you perceive the approach to some substantial body in the dark, though it cannot be discerned, so certainly I felt that Cathy was there: not under me, but on the earth. A sudden sense of relief flowed from my heart through every limb. I relinquished my labour of agony, and turned consoled at once: unspeakably consoled. Her presence was with me: it remained while I re-filled the grave, and led me home. You may laugh, if you will; but I was sure I should see her there. I was sure she was with me, and I could not help talking to her. Having reached the Heights, I rushed eagerly to the door. It was fastened; and, I remember, that accursed Earnshaw and my wife opposed my entrance. I remember stopping to kick the breath out of him, and then hurrying up-stairs, to my room and hers. I looked round impatiently I felt her by me I could ALMOST see her, and yet I COULD NOT! I ought to have sweat blood then, from the anguish of my yearning from the fervour of my supplications to have but one glimpse! I had not one. She showed herself, as she often was in life, a devil to me! And, since then, sometimes more and sometimes less, I’ve been the sport of that intolerable torture! Infernal! keeping my nerves at such a stretch that, if they had not resembled catgut, they would long ago have relaxed to the feebleness of Linton’s. When I sat in the house with Hareton, it seemed that on going out I should meet her; when I walked on the moors I should meet her coming in. When I went from home I hastened to return; she MUST be somewhere at the Heights, I was certain! And when I slept in her chamber I was beaten out of that. I couldn’t lie there; for the moment I closed my eyes, she was either outside the window, or sliding back the panels, or entering the room, or even resting her darling head on the same pillow as she did when a child; and I must open my lids to see. And so I opened and closed them a hundred times a night to be always disappointed! It racked me! I’ve often groaned aloud, till that old rascal Joseph no doubt believed that my conscience was playing the fiend inside of me. Now, since I’ve seen her, I’m pacified a little. It was a strange way of killing: not by inches, but by fractions of hairbreadths, to beguile me with the spectre of a hope through eighteen years!’
“和她融为一体，会更加幸福！”他回答道。 “你认为我害怕这种变化吗？我期待着揭开盖子后会发生这样的转变，但更令我高兴的是，在我分享它之前，它不会开始。而且，除非我对她冷漠的面容有清晰的印象，否则那种奇怪的感觉很难消除。事情的开始很奇怪。你知道她死后我很疯狂；永远地，从黎明到黎明，祈祷她将她的灵魂归还给我！我对鬼魂有着坚定的信念：我坚信它们能够而且确实存在于我们中间！埋葬她的那天，下了一场雪。晚上我去了教堂墓地。天色萧瑟，整个冬天都很孤独。我并不担心她那个愚蠢的丈夫会在这么晚的时候在峡谷里徘徊。没有人有权带他们去那里。独自一人，意识到两码松散的泥土是我们之间唯一的障碍，我对自己说：“我会再次把她抱在怀里！”如果她冷，我会认为是北风使我寒冷； “如果她一动不动，那就是睡着了。”我从工具房里拿出一把铁锹，开始用尽全身力气挖，铲子刮破了棺材。我开始用手干活；螺丝周围的木头开始开裂；我正要达到我的目的，这时我似乎听到上面有人叹了口气，就在坟墓的边缘，弯下了腰。 “要是我能把这个取下来就好了，”我嘀咕道，“我希望他们能把土铲到我们俩身上！”我更加拼命地扭动着它。又是一声叹息，就在我耳边。我似乎感觉到它温暖的呼吸取代了夹着雨夹雪的风。 我知道附近没有任何有血有肉的生物；但是，就像你在黑暗中察觉到某个实体的接近一样，尽管无法辨别，我也确实感觉到凯茜就在那里：不是在我下面，而是在地球上。一种如释重负的感觉突然从我的心里流过每一个肢体。我放弃了痛苦的劳作，立刻感到安慰：难以言喻的安慰。她的存在与我同在：当我重新填满坟墓并带我回家时，她仍然存在。如果你愿意的话，你可以笑；但我确信我应该在那里见到她。我确信她和我在一起，我忍不住和她说话。到达高地后，我急切地冲向门口。它被固定了；我记得，该死的恩肖和我的妻子反对我进来。我记得停下来让他喘不过气来，然后匆匆上楼，来到我和她的房间。我不耐烦地环顾四周，感觉到她就在我身边，我几乎可以看到她，但我却看不到！那时我应该流汗，因为我渴望的痛苦，因为我热切地祈求只看一眼！我没有。正如她在生活中经常表现的那样，她对我来说是一个魔鬼！从那时起，我就一直受到这种难以忍受的折磨，有时多有时少！地狱！我的神经一直处于紧张状态，如果不是像肠线一样，它们早就放松到林惇的那种虚弱状态了。当我和哈里顿一起坐在屋里时，似乎出去时我应该会见到她；但我并没有想到。当我走在荒野上时，我应该会遇见她进来。当我离开家时，我急忙返回；我确信她一定在高地的某个地方！当我睡在她的房间里时，我被殴打了。 我不能躺在那里；当我闭上眼睛的那一刻，她要么在窗外，要么推开窗板，要么进入房间，甚至像小时候一样把她亲爱的头枕在同一个枕头上；我必须打开我的眼皮才能看到。所以我每晚打开和关闭它们一百次，但总是失望！这让我很煎熬！我经常大声呻吟，直到那个老流氓约瑟夫无疑相信我的良心在我内心作祟。现在，自从见到她，我心里平静了一些。这是一种奇怪的杀戮方式：不是以英寸为单位，而是以毫厘之差，用十八年来希望的幽灵来迷惑我！’

Mr. Heathcliff paused and wiped his forehead; his hair clung to it, wet with perspiration; his eyes were fixed on the red embers of the fire, the brows not contracted, but raised next the temples; diminishing the grim aspect of his countenance, but imparting a peculiar look of trouble, and a painful appearance of mental tension towards one absorbing subject. He only half addressed me, and I maintained silence. I didn’t like to hear him talk! After a short period he resumed his meditation on the picture, took it down and leant it against the sofa to contemplate it at better advantage; and while so occupied Catherine entered, announcing that she was ready, when her pony should be saddled.
希刺克厉夫先生停下来擦了擦额头。他的头发粘在上面，被汗水打湿了。他的眼睛盯着火的红色余烬，眉毛没有皱起，而是在太阳穴旁边扬起。淡化了他脸上的严峻面貌，但赋予了一种特殊的烦恼表情，以及对一个吸引人的主题的精神紧张的痛苦表现。他只对我说了一半，我保持沉默。我不喜欢听他说话！过了一会儿，他又开始沉思这幅画，把它取下来，靠在沙发上，以便更好地凝视它。正当凯瑟琳忙得不可开交的时候，凯瑟琳走了进来，宣布她已经准备好了，她的小马应该在什么时候上鞍。

‘Send that over to-morrow,’ said Heathcliff to me; then turning to her, he added: ‘You may do without your pony: it is a fine evening, and you’ll need no ponies at Wuthering Heights; for what journeys you take, your own feet will serve you. Come along.’
“明天把它寄过来，”希刺克厉夫对我说。然后他转向她，补充道：“你可以不需要你的小马：这是一个美好的夜晚，你在呼啸山庄不需要小马；”无论你走什么样的路，你自己的脚都会为你服务。一起来。'

‘Good-bye, Ellen!’ whispered my dear little mistress.
“再见，艾伦！”我亲爱的小女主人低声说道。

As she kissed me, her lips felt like ice. ‘Come and see me, Ellen; don’t forget.’
当她吻我时，她的嘴唇感觉像冰一样。 “过来见我，艾伦；别忘了。’

‘Take care you do no such thing, Mrs. Dean!’ said her new father. ‘When I wish to speak to you I’ll come here. I want none of your prying at my house!’
“小心，别做这样的事，迪恩夫人！”她的新父亲说道。 ‘当我想和你说话时，我会来这里。我不希望你窥探我的房子！

He signed her to precede him; and casting back a look that cut my heart, she obeyed. I watched them, from the window, walk down the garden. Heathcliff fixed Catherine’s arm under his: though she disputed the act at first evidently; and with rapid strides he hurried her into the alley, whose trees concealed them.
他示意她走在他前面。她回头看了我一眼，让我心痛不已，于是她服从了。我从窗户里看着他们沿着花园走去。希刺克厉夫把凯瑟琳的胳膊夹在自己的胳膊下：尽管她一开始显然对这一举动提出了异议；但后来她发现了这一点。他迈着大步催促她走进小巷，小巷里的树木遮住了他们。

Chapter XXX
第三十章

I HAVE paid a visit to the Heights, but I have not seen her since she left: Joseph held the door in his hand when I called to ask after her, and wouldn’t let me pass. He said Mrs. Linton was ‘thrang,’ and the master was not in. Zillah has told me something of the way they go on, otherwise I should hardly know who was dead and who living. She thinks Catherine haughty, and does not like her, I can guess by her talk. My young lady asked some aid of her when she first came; but Mr. Heathcliff told her to follow her own business, and let his daughter-in-law look after herself; and Zillah willingly acquiesced, being a narrow-minded, selfish woman. Catherine evinced a child’s annoyance at this neglect; repaid it with contempt, and thus enlisted my informant among her enemies, as securely as if she had done her some great wrong. I had a long talk with Zillah about six weeks ago, a little before you came, one day when we foregathered on the moor; and this is what she told me.
我去过高地，但自从她离开后我就没见过她：当我打电话询问她的情况时，约瑟夫手里拿着门，不让我过去。他说林惇夫人‘thrang’了，主人也不在家。齐拉告诉了我一些他们的情况，否则我几乎不知道谁死了，谁还活着。她认为凯瑟琳傲慢，不喜欢她，从她的谈话中我可以猜到。我的小姐刚来的时候向她寻求了一些帮助。但希刺克厉夫先生让她忙自己的事，让儿媳妇照顾好自己。齐拉心胸狭隘、自私，心甘情愿地默许了。凯瑟琳对这种忽视表现出了孩子般的恼怒。她以蔑视的态度予以报复，并因此将我的线人列入了她的敌人之列，就好像她对她做了什么大错一样。大约六周前，就在你来之前不久，我和齐拉进行了一次长谈，那天我们在荒原上相聚。这就是她告诉我的。

‘The first thing Mrs. Linton did,’ she said, ‘on her arrival at the Heights, was to run up-stairs, without even wishing good-evening to me and Joseph; she shut herself into Linton’s room, and remained till morning. Then, while the master and Earnshaw were at breakfast, she entered the house, and asked all in a quiver if the doctor might be sent for? her cousin was very ill.
“林惇夫人到达高地后做的第一件事，”她说，“就是跑上楼，甚至没有向我和约瑟夫道晚安。她把自己关在林惇的房间里，一直待到早上。然后，当主人和恩肖吃早餐的时候，她走进屋子，颤抖地问大家是否可以请医生来？她的表弟病得很重。

‘’We know that!’ answered Heathcliff; ‘but his life is not worth a farthing, and I won’t spend a farthing on him.’
“我们知道！”希刺克厉夫回答道。 “但他的命一文不值，我不会在他身上花一分钱。”

‘’But I cannot tell how to do,’ she said; ‘and if nobody will help me, he’ll die!’
“但我不知道该怎么做，”她说； “如果没有人帮助我，他就会死！”

‘’Walk out of the room,’ cried the master, ‘and let me never hear a word more about him! None here care what becomes of him; if you do, act the nurse; if you do not, lock him up and leave him.’
“走出房间，”主人喊道，“别让我再听到任何关于他的消息！”这里没有人关心他的遭遇；如果您这样做，请充当护士；如果你不这样做，把他锁起来并离开他。

‘Then she began to bother me, and I said I’d had enough plague with the tiresome thing; we each had our tasks, and hers was to wait on Linton: Mr. Heathcliff bid me leave that labour to her.
“然后她开始打扰我，我说我已经受够了这种令人厌烦的事情了；我们每个人都有自己的任务，而她的任务是侍候林惇：希刺克厉夫先生吩咐我把这项工作留给她。

‘How they managed together, I can’t tell. I fancy he fretted a great deal, and moaned hisseln night and day; and she had precious little rest: one could guess by her white face and heavy eyes. She sometimes came into the kitchen all wildered like, and looked as if she would fain beg assistance; but I was not going to disobey the master: I never dare disobey him, Mrs. Dean; and, though I thought it wrong that Kenneth should not be sent for, it was no concern of mine either to advise or complain, and I always refused to meddle. Once or twice, after we had gone to bed, I’ve happened to open my door again and seen her sitting crying on the stairs’top; and then I’ve shut myself in quick, for fear of being moved to interfere. I did pity her then, I’m sure: still I didn’t wish to lose my place, you know.
“我不知道他们是如何合作的。我猜想他非常烦恼，日日夜夜地呻吟。她几乎没有休息过：从她苍白的脸和沉重的眼睛就可以猜出。有时她走进厨房时神情狂野，看起来好像很想寻求帮助。但我不会违抗主人：我从来不敢违抗他，迪恩夫人；虽然我认为不请肯尼思是错误的，但我不关心建议或抱怨，而且我总是拒绝干涉。有一两次，我们上床睡觉后，我碰巧再次打开门，看到她坐在楼梯顶上哭泣。然后我很快就把自己关了起来，生怕有人来干涉。我确信当时我确实可怜她：但我仍然不想失去我的位置，你知道。

‘At last, one night she came boldly into my chamber, and frightened me out of my wits, by saying, ‘Tell Mr. Heathcliff that his son is dying I’m sure he is, this time. Get up, instantly, and tell him.’
“最后，一天晚上，她大胆地走进我的房间，把我吓得魂飞魄散，她说：‘告诉希刺克厉夫先生，他的儿子快要死了，这次我确信他快死了。”立即站起来，告诉他。

‘Having uttered this speech, she vanished again. I lay a quarter of an hour listening and trembling. Nothing stirred the house was quiet.
‘说完这句话，她又消失了。我躺了一刻钟，一边听着，一边颤抖着。屋里静悄悄的，没有任何动静。

‘She’s mistaken, I said to myself. He’s got over it. I needn’t disturb them; and I began to doze. But my sleep was marred a second time by a sharp ringing of the bell the only bell we have, put up on purpose for Linton; and the master called to me to see what was the matter, and inform them that he wouldn’t have that noise repeated.
“她错了，我对自己说。他已经克服了。我不必打扰他们；我开始打瞌睡。但我的睡眠再次被一阵刺耳的铃声打乱了，那是我们唯一的铃声，是专门为林惇准备的。主人叫我来看看发生了什么事，并告诉他们他不会让这种噪音再次发生。

‘I delivered Catherine’s message. He cursed to himself, and in a few minutes came out with a lighted candle, and proceeded to their room. I followed. Mrs. Heathcliff was seated by the bedside, with her hands folded on her knees. Her father-in-law went up, held the light to Linton’s face, looked at him, and touched him; afterwards he turned to her.
“我转达了凯瑟琳的口信。他暗自咒骂了一声，几分钟后，他拿着一支点燃的蜡烛走了出来，走进了他们的房间。我跟着。希斯克利夫夫人坐在床边，双手交叉放在膝盖上。她的公公走上前，把灯举到林惇的脸上，看着他，抚摸他。随后他转向她。

‘’Now Catherine,’ he said, ‘how do you feel?’
“现在凯瑟琳，”他说，“你感觉怎么样？”

‘She was dumb.
‘她很蠢。

‘’How do you feel, Catherine?’ he repeated.
“你感觉怎么样，凯瑟琳？”他重复道。

‘’He’s safe, and I’m free,’ she answered: ‘I should feel well but,’ she continued, with a bitterness she couldn’t conceal, ‘you have left me so long to struggle against death alone, that I feel and see only death! I feel like death!’
“他很安全，我也自由了，”她回答道，“我应该感觉很好，但是，”她继续说道，带着无法掩饰的痛苦，“你让我独自与死亡作斗争太久了，我感受和看到的只有死亡！我感觉自己快要死了！

‘And she looked like it, too! I gave her a little wine. Hareton and Joseph, who had been wakened by the ringing and the sound of feet, and heard our talk from outside, now entered. Joseph was fain, I believe, of the lad’s removal; Hareton seemed a thought bothered: though he was more taken up with staring at Catherine than thinking of Linton. But the master bid him get off to bed again: we didn’t want his help. He afterwards made Joseph remove the body to his chamber, and told me to return to mine, and Mrs. Heathcliff remained by herself.
“她看起来也像这样！”我给了她一点酒。哈里顿和约瑟夫被铃声和脚步声吵醒，听到了外面我们的谈话，现在进来了。我相信，约瑟夫很高兴把这个小伙子带走。哈里顿似乎在烦恼：尽管他更热衷于盯着凯瑟琳，而不是想到林惇。但主人让他重新上床睡觉：我们不需要他的帮助。后来他让约瑟夫把尸体搬到他的房间，并叫我回到我的房间，希刺克厉夫夫人独自一人留在房间里。

‘In the morning, he sent me to tell her she must come down to breakfast: she had undressed, and appeared going to sleep, and said she was ill; at which I hardly wondered. I informed Mr. Heathcliff, and he replied, ‘Well, let her be till after the funeral; and go up now and then to get her what is needful; and, as soon as she seems better, tell me.‘‘
“早上，他派我告诉她，她必须下来吃早餐：她脱了衣服，似乎要睡觉，并说她病了；我对此几乎不感到奇怪。我通知了希刺克厉夫先生，他回答说：“好吧，让她等到葬礼结束吧；”时不时地上去给她拿需要的东西；一旦她看起来好一些，就告诉我。”

Cathy stayed upstairs a fortnight, according to Zillah; who visited her twice a day, and would have been rather more friendly, but her attempts at increasing kindness were proudly and promptly repelled.
据齐拉说，凯茜在楼上待了两周。她每天来看望她两次，本来会更加友好，但她试图增加友善的努力很快就被骄傲地拒绝了。

Heathcliff went up once, to show her Linton’s will. He had bequeathed the whole of his, and what had been her, moveable property, to his father: the poor creature was threatened, or coaxed, into that act during her week’s absence, when his uncle died. The lands, being a minor, he could not meddle with. However, Mr. Heathcliff has claimed and kept them in his wife’s right and his also: I suppose legally; at any rate, Catherine, destitute of cash and friends, cannot disturb his possession.
希刺克厉夫有一次上去，向她表明了林惇的遗愿。他把他的全部财产以及曾经属于她的动产遗赠给了他的父亲：在她不在的那一周，当他的叔叔去世时，这个可怜的人是受到威胁或哄骗才做出这种行为的。土地是未成年人，他不能插手。然而，希斯克利夫先生声称并保留了他妻子的权利和他自己的权利：我想是合法的；无论如何，凯瑟琳缺乏现金和朋友，无法打扰他的财产。

‘Nobody,’ said Zillah, ‘ever approached her door, except that once, but I; and nobody asked anything about her. The first occasion of her coming down into the house was on a Sunday afternoon. She had cried out, when I carried up her dinner, that she couldn’t bear any longer being in the cold; and I told her the master was going to Thrushcross Grange, and Earnshaw and I needn’t hinder her from descending; so, as soon as she heard Heathcliff’s horse trot off, she made her appearance, donned in black, and her yellow curls combed back behind her ears as plain as a Quaker: she couldn’t comb them out.
“除了那一次，”齐拉说，“没有人走近过她的门，除了我；没有人问起她的任何事情。她第一次进屋是在周日下午。当我给她送晚饭时，她大声喊道，她再也无法忍受寒冷了。我告诉她主人要去画眉田庄，我和恩肖不必阻止她下山。因此，当她听到希刺克厉夫的马跑开时，她就出现了，穿着黑色衣服，黄色的卷发向后梳到耳后，像贵格会教徒一样朴素：她无法将它们梳理出来。

‘Joseph and I generally go to chapel on Sundays:’ the kirk, you know, has no minister now, explained Mrs. Dean; and they call the Methodists’ or Baptists’ place (I can’t say which it is) at Gimmerton, a chapel. ‘Joseph had gone,’ she continued, ‘but I thought proper to bide at home. Young folks are always the better for an elder’s over-looking; and Hareton, with all his bashfulness, isn’t a model of nice behaviour. I let him know that his cousin would very likely sit with us, and she had been always used to see the Sabbath respected; so he had as good leave his guns and bits of indoor work alone, while she stayed. He coloured up at the news, and cast his eyes over his hands and clothes. The train-oil and gunpowder were shoved out of sight in a minute. I saw he meant to give her his company; and I guessed, by his way, he wanted to be presentable; so, laughing, as I durst not laugh when the master is by, I offered to help him, if he would, and joked at his confusion. He grew sullen, and began to swear.
“约瑟夫和我通常在周日去教堂：”迪恩夫人解释道，你知道，教堂现在没有牧师了。他们把吉默顿的卫理公会或浸信会的场所（我不能说是哪个）称为小教堂。 “约瑟夫已经走了，”她继续说道，“但我认为留在家里是合适的。”年轻人总是在长辈的呵护下更好；哈里顿虽然害羞，但并不是一个良好行为的典范。我让他知道他的表弟很可能会和我们坐在一起，而且她一直习惯于看到安息日受到尊重。所以在她留下来的时候，他最好别管他的枪和一些室内工作。听到这个消息，他脸色涨红，目光落在自己的手和衣服上。火车油和火药在一分钟之内就被推到了视线之外。我看出他打算给她陪伴；从他的方式来看，我猜想他是想表现得体面。因此，我一边笑着，一边在主人身边时不敢笑，如果他愿意的话，我愿意帮助他，并嘲笑他的困惑。他变得闷闷不乐，并开始咒骂。

‘Now, Mrs. Dean,’ Zillah went on, seeing me not pleased by her manner, ‘you happen think your young lady too fine for Mr. Hareton; and happen you’re right: but I own I should love well to bring her pride a peg lower. And what will all her learning and her daintiness do for her, now? She’s as poor as you or I: poorer, I’ll be bound: you’re saying, and I’m doing my little all that road.’
“现在，迪恩夫人，”齐拉看到我对她的举止不满意，继续说道，“您碰巧认为您的年轻女士配不上哈里顿先生；但是，您认为您的年轻女士太适合哈里顿先生了。”碰巧你是对的：但我承认我应该很乐意降低她的自尊心。现在，她所有的学识和她的精致对她有什么用呢？她和你或我一样穷：更穷，我会受到束缚：你是说，我一路上都在做我的小事。

Hareton allowed Zillah to give him her aid; and she flattered him into a good humour; so, when Catherine came, half forgetting her former insults, he tried to make himself agreeable, by the housekeeper’s account.
哈里顿允许齐拉向他提供帮助。她还奉承他，让他心情愉快。因此，当凯瑟琳到来时，他几乎忘记了她以前的侮辱，按照管家的说法，他试图让自己变得和蔼可亲。

‘Missis walked in,’ she said, ‘as chill as an icicle, and as high as a princess. I got up and offered her my seat in the arm-chair. No, she turned up her nose at my civility. Earnshaw rose, too, and bid her come to the settle, and sit close by the fire: he was sure she was starved.
“小姐走了进来，”她说，“冰冷如冰柱，高高如公主。”我站起来，让她坐在扶手椅上。不，她对我的礼貌不屑一顾。恩肖也站了起来，请她到长凳上来，坐在火边：他确信她饿坏了。

‘’I’ve been starved a month and more,’ she answered, resting on the word as scornful as she could.
“我已经挨饿了一个月多了，”她回答道，嘴里尽是轻蔑。

‘And she got a chair for herself, and placed it at a distance from both of us. Having sat till she was warm, she began to look round, and discovered a number of books on the dresser; she was instantly upon her feet again, stretching to reach them: but they were too high up. Her cousin, after watching her endeavours a while, at last summoned courage to help her; she held her frock, and he filled it with the first that came to hand.
“她给自己找了一把椅子，放在离我们俩一定距离的地方。坐到浑身暖和起来后，她开始环顾四周，发现梳妆台上放着几本书；她立刻又站起来，伸手去够它们，但它们太高了。她的表弟看着她的努力一段时间后，终于鼓起勇气来帮助她。她拿着她的连衣裙，他把手上的第一件衣服装满了。

‘That was a great advance for the lad. She didn’t thank him; still, he felt gratified that she had accepted his assistance, and ventured to stand behind as she examined them, and even to stoop and point out what struck his fancy in certain old pictures which they contained; nor was he daunted by the saucy style in which she jerked the page from his finger: he contented himself with going a bit farther back and looking at her instead of the book. She continued reading, or seeking for something to read. His attention became, by degrees, quite centred in the study of her thick silky curls: her face he couldn’t see, and she couldn’t see him. And, perhaps, not quite awake to what he did, but attracted like a child to a candle, at last he proceeded from staring to touching; he put out his hand and stroked one curl, as gently as if it were a bird. He might have stuck a knife into her neck, she started round in such a taking.
“这对这个小伙子来说是一个巨大的进步。她没有感谢他；她没有感谢他。尽管如此，他还是对她接受了他的帮助感到满意，并在她检查这些照片时冒险站在后面，甚至弯下腰指出其中某些旧照片中他所感兴趣的内容；他也没有被她从他手指上扯下书页的俏皮风格所吓倒：他满足于退后一点，看着她而不是书。她继续阅读，或者寻找一些可以读的东西。他的注意力逐渐集中在研究她浓密的丝质卷发上：他看不到她的脸，她也看不到他。也许，他并没有完全意识到自己所做的事情，而是像孩子一样被蜡烛所吸引，最后他从凝视变成了触摸；他伸出手，抚摸着一卷卷发，就像抚摸一只小鸟一样温柔。他可能是把刀插进了她的脖子，她猛地转过身来。

‘’Get away this moment! How dare you touch me? Why are you stopping there?’ she cried, in a tone of disgust. ‘I can’t endure you! I’ll go upstairs again, if you come near me.’
” “现在就走吧！你怎么敢碰我？你为什么停在那里？”她带着厌恶的语气喊道。 ‘我受不了你了！如果你靠近我的话，我会再上楼去。

‘Mr. Hareton recoiled, looking as foolish as he could do: he sat down in the settle very quiet, and she continued turning over her volumes another half hour; finally, Earnshaw crossed over, and whispered to me.
'先生。哈里顿退缩了，看起来很愚蠢：他安静地坐在长椅上，她又继续翻了半个小时的书。最后，恩萧走过来，对我低声说道。

‘Will you ask her to read to us, Zillah? I’m stalled of doing naught; and I do like I could like to hear her! Dunnot say I wanted it, but ask of yourseln.’
“齐拉，你能请她念给我们听吗？”我停滞不前，无所事事；我真的很想听听她的声音！不要说我想要它，但要问你自己。

‘’Mr. Hareton wishes you would read to us, ma’am,’ I said, immediately. ‘He’d take it very kind he’d be much obliged.’
''先生。哈里顿希望您能读给我们听，女士，”我立即说道。 “他会非常感激，他会非常感激。”

‘She frowned; and looking up, answered -
“她皱起了眉头；抬头一看，回答道——

‘’Mr. Hareton, and the whole set of you, will be good enough to understand that I reject any pretence at kindness you have the hypocrisy to offer! I despise you, and will have nothing to say to any of you! When I would have given my life for one kind word, even to see one of your faces, you all kept off. But I won’t complain to you! I’m driven down here by the cold; not either to amuse you or enjoy your society.’
''先生。哈里顿，还有你们所有人，都会足够明白，我拒绝你们虚伪地假装友善！我鄙视你们，我不会对你们任何人说什么！当我愿意为了一句善意的话而献出自己的生命时，哪怕是为了看一眼你们的一张脸，你们都拒绝了。但我不会向你抱怨！我被寒冷驱赶到这里；不是为了取悦你或享受你的社交。

‘’What could I ha’ done?’ began Earnshaw. ‘How was I to blame?’
“我能做什么呢？”恩肖开始说道。 “我该负什么责任呢？”

‘’Oh! you are an exception,’ answered Mrs. Heathcliff. ‘I never missed such a concern as you.’
''哦！ “你是个例外。”希刺克厉夫夫人回答道。 “我从来没有像你这样担心过。”

‘’But I offered more than once, and asked,’ he said, kindling up at her pertness, ‘I asked Mr. Heathcliff to let me wake for you ‘
“但我不止一次提出请求，”他说，被她的直率激怒了，“我请求希刺克厉夫先生让我为你起床。”

‘’Be silent! I’ll go out of doors, or anywhere, rather than have your disagreeable voice in my ear!’ said my lady.
''安静！我宁愿出去，或者去任何地方，也不愿让你那令人讨厌的声音在我耳边响起！”我的女士说道。

‘Hareton muttered she might go to hell, for him! and unslinging his gun, restrained himself from his Sunday occupations no longer. He talked now, freely enough; and she presently saw fit to retreat to her solitude: but the frost had set in, and, in spite of her pride, she was forced to condescend to our company, more and more. However, I took care there should be no further scorning at my good nature: ever since, I’ve been as stiff as herself; and she has no lover or liker among us: and she does not deserve one; for, let them say the least word to her, and she’ll curl back without respect of any one. She’ll snap at the master himself, and as good as dares him to thrash her; and the more hurt she gets, the more venomous she grows.’
“哈里顿嘀咕着，为了他，她可能会下地狱！”他拔出枪，不再克制自己做周日的事情。他现在可以自由自在地说话了。她很快就觉得该隐居了，但霜冻已经来临，尽管她很骄傲，但她还是被迫越来越屈尊与我们为伴。然而，我小心翼翼地不让别人再蔑视我的善良：从那以后，我就和她一样僵硬了；她在我们中间没有情人或喜欢的人：她也不配拥有一个；因为，只要他们对她说哪怕一句话，她就会蜷缩起来，不尊重任何人。她会对主人大发雷霆，甚至敢于让他殴打她。她受到的伤害越多，她的恶毒就越多。

At first, on hearing this account from Zillah, I determined to leave my situation, take a cottage, and get Catherine to come and live with me: but Mr. Heathcliff would as soon permit that as he would set up Hareton in an independent house; and I can see no remedy, at present, unless she could marry again; and that scheme it does not come within my province to arrange.
起初，听到齐拉的叙述，我决定离开我的处境，买一间小屋，让凯瑟琳来和我住在一起：但希刺克厉夫先生会尽快允许，因为他会在独立的房子里安置哈里顿;目前我看不出有什么补救办法，除非她能再婚。而这个计划不属于我的省份来安排。

Thus ended Mrs. Dean’s story. Notwithstanding the doctor’s prophecy, I am rapidly recovering strength; and though it be only the second week in January, I propose getting out on horseback in a day or two, and riding over to Wuthering Heights, to inform my landlord that I shall spend the next six months in London; and, if he likes, he may look out for another tenant to take the place after October. I would not pass another winter here for much.
迪恩夫人的故事就这样结束了。尽管医生预言，我的体力正在迅速恢复；尽管现在只是一月的第二个星期，我还是建议在一两天内骑马出去，骑马前往呼啸山庄，通知我的房东我将在伦敦度过接下来的六个月；如果他愿意，他可能会在十月之后寻找另一个租户来取代这个地方。我不会再在这里度过太多的冬天了。

Chapter XXXI
第三十一章

YESTERDAY was bright, calm, and frosty. I went to the Heights as I proposed: my housekeeper entreated me to bear a little note from her to her young lady, and I did not refuse, for the worthy woman was not conscious of anything odd in her request. The front door stood open, but the jealous gate was fastened, as at my last visit; I knocked and invoked Earnshaw from among the garden-beds; he unchained it, and I entered. The fellow is as handsome a rustic as need be seen. I took particular notice of him this time; but then he does his best apparently to make the least of his advantages.
昨天天气晴朗、平静、寒冷。我按照我的提议去了高地：我的管家恳求我带一张她给她小姐的小纸条，我没有拒绝，因为这位可敬的女人并没有意识到她的要求有什么奇怪的。前门开着，但嫉妒的门却关着，就像我上次来时一样。我敲了敲门，从花园里召唤了恩萧。他解开锁链，我进去了。这家伙长得很英俊，是一个乡下人，这是理所当然的。这次我特别注意了他。但随后他显然竭尽全力，尽量减少自己的优势。

I asked if Mr. Heathcliff were at home? He answered, No; but he would be in at dinner-time. It was eleven o’clock, and I announced my intention of going in and waiting for him; at which he immediately flung down his tools and accompanied me, in the office of watchdog, not as a substitute for the host.
我问希斯克利夫先生在家吗？他回答说：“不”。但他会在晚餐时间来。已经十一点了，我宣布要进去等他。他立即扔下工具，陪我到看门狗的办公室，而不是代替主人。

We entered together; Catherine was there, making herself useful in preparing some vegetables for the approaching meal; she looked more sulky and less spirited than when I had seen her first. She hardly raised her eyes to notice me, and continued her employment with the same disregard to common forms of politeness as before; never returning my bow and good-morning by the slightest acknowledgment.
我们一起进去；凯瑟琳在那里，正在为即将到来的饭菜准备一些蔬菜。与我第一次见到她时相比，她看起来更闷闷不乐，更没有精神。她几乎没有抬起眼睛来注意到我，并像以前一样不顾常见的礼貌，继续她的工作。从来没有以丝毫的谢意来回报我的鞠躬和早安。

‘She does not seem so amiable,’ I thought, ‘as Mrs. Dean would persuade me to believe. She’s a beauty, it is true; but not an angel.’
“她看起来并不那么和蔼可亲，”我想，“迪恩夫人说服我相信的那样。”她是个美人，这是事实；但不是天使。

Earnshaw surlily bid her remove her things to the kitchen. ‘Remove them yourself,’ she said, pushing them from her as soon as she had done; and retiring to a stool by the window, where she began to carve figures of birds and beasts out of the turnip-parings in her lap. I approached her, pretending to desire a view of the garden; and, as I fancied, adroitly dropped Mrs. Dean’s note on to her knee, unnoticed by Hareton but she asked aloud, ‘What is that?’ And chucked it off.
恩肖阴沉地命令她把东西搬到厨房去。 “你自己把它们取下来吧，”她说完，就把它们从身上推开。她退到窗边的一张凳子上，开始用腿上的萝卜皮雕刻飞禽走兽的图案。我走近她，假装想看看花园的景色。正如我所想，她巧妙地将迪恩夫人的纸条放在膝盖上，哈里顿没有注意到，但她大声问道：“那是什么？”然后把它扔掉了。

‘A letter from your old acquaintance, the housekeeper at the Grange,’ I answered; annoyed at her exposing my kind deed, and fearful lest it should be imagined a missive of my own. She would gladly have gathered it up at this information, but Hareton beat her; he seized and put it in his waistcoat, saying Mr. Heathcliff should look at it first. Thereat, Catherine silently turned her face from us, and, very stealthily, drew out her pockethandkerchief and applied it to her eyes; and her cousin, after struggling awhile to keep down his softer feelings, pulled out the letter and flung it on the floor beside her, as ungraciously as he could. Catherine caught and perused it eagerly; then she put a few questions to me concerning the inmates, rational and irrational, of her former home; and gazing towards the hills, murmured in soliloquy:
“一封来自你的老熟人、农庄女管家的信。”我回答道。我对她揭露我的善行感到恼火，也担心这会被认为是我自己的一封信。听到这个消息，她很乐意把它收集起来，但哈里顿打败了她。他抓住它，把它放进背心里，说希刺克厉夫先生应该先看一下。于是，凯瑟琳默默地转过脸不看我们，然后偷偷地掏出手帕，敷在眼睛上。她的表弟挣扎了一会儿，才抑制住自己内心的柔软情绪，然后拿出那封信，尽可能不客气地把它扔在她旁边的地板上。凯瑟琳接住了它，急切地细读起来。然后她向我提出了一些关于她以前家里的囚犯的问题，无论是理性的还是非理性的。凝视着群山，自言自语道：

‘I should like to be riding Minny down there! I should like to be climbing up there! Oh! I’m tired I’m STALLED, Hareton!’ And she leant her pretty head back against the sill, with half a yawn and half a sigh, and lapsed into an aspect of abstracted sadness: neither caring nor knowing whether we remarked her.
“我真想骑着米妮去那里！”我真想爬到那里去！哦！我累了，我停滞不前了，哈里顿！”她把漂亮的头靠在窗台上，半打哈欠，半叹息，陷入一种心不在焉的悲伤之中：既不关心也不知道我们是否注意到她。

‘Mrs. Heathcliff,’ I said, after sitting some time mute, ‘you are not aware that I am an acquaintance of yours? so intimate that I think it strange you won’t come and speak to me. My housekeeper never wearies of talking about and praising you; and she’ll be greatly disappointed if I return with no news of or from you, except that you received her letter and said nothing!’
'太太。希刺克厉夫，”我沉默地坐了一会儿，说道，“你不知道我是你的熟人吗？如此亲密，我觉得很奇怪你不来跟我说话。我的管家不厌其烦地谈论和赞美你；如果我回来时没有收到你的任何消息，除了你收到了她的信但什么也没说之外，她会非常失望！

She appeared to wonder at this speech, and asked, -
她似乎对这次演讲感到惊讶，并问道：

‘Does Ellen like you?’
“艾伦喜欢你吗？”

‘Yes, very well,’ I replied, hesitatingly.
“是的，很好，”我犹豫地回答道。

‘You must tell her,’ she continued, ‘that I would answer her letter, but I have no materials for writing: not even a book from which I might tear a leaf.’
“你必须告诉她，”她继续说道，“我会回信，但我没有写作材料：甚至没有一本可以撕下一页的书。”

‘No books!’ I exclaimed. ‘How do you contrive to live here without them? if I may take the liberty to inquire. Though provided with a large library, I’m frequently very dull at the Grange; take my books away, and I should be desperate!’
“没有书！”我喊道。 “没有他们，你怎么能住在这里？”我可以冒昧询问一下吗？虽然农庄有一个很大的图书馆，但我经常在农庄感到很无聊。把我的书拿走，我会绝望的！”

‘I was always reading, when I had them,’ said Catherine; ‘and Mr. Heathcliff never reads; so he took it into his head to destroy my books. I have not had a glimpse of one for weeks. Only once, I searched through Joseph’s store of theology, to his great irritation; and once, Hareton, I came upon a secret stock in your room some Latin and Greek, and some tales and poetry: all old friends. I brought the last here and you gathered them, as a magpie gathers silver spoons, for the mere love of stealing! They are of no use to you; or else you concealed them in the bad spirit that, as you cannot enjoy them, nobody else shall. Perhaps YOUR envy counselled Mr. Heathcliff to rob me of my treasures? But I’ve most of them written on my brain and printed in my heart, and you cannot deprive me of those!’
“当我有它们的时候，我总是在读书，”凯瑟琳说。 “希刺克厉夫先生从不读书；所以他一心想要毁掉我的书。我已经好几个星期没有见过它了。只有一次，我翻阅了约瑟夫的神学宝库，这让他非常恼火。有一次，哈里顿，我在你的房间里发现了一些秘密库存，一些拉丁语和希腊语，还有一些故事和诗歌：都是老朋友。我把最后一个带到了这里，而你却把它们收集起来，就像喜鹊收集银汤匙一样，仅仅是为了偷窃！它们对你毫无用处；否则，你就怀着恶意将它们隐藏起来，因为你无法享受它们，所以其他人也无法享受它们。也许你的嫉妒促使希刺克厉夫先生抢走了我的财宝？但我已经把大部分都写在我的脑子里，印在我的心里了，你不能剥夺我这些！”

Earnshaw blushed crimson when his cousin made this revelation of his private literary accumulations, and stammered an indignant denial of her accusations.
当他的表弟揭露他的私人文学积累时，恩肖脸红了，并结结巴巴地愤怒地否认了她的指控。

‘Mr. Hareton is desirous of increasing his amount of knowledge,’ I said, coming to his rescue. ‘He is not ENVIOUS, but EMULOUS of your attainments. He’ll be a clever scholar in a few years.’
'先生。哈里顿渴望增加他的知识量，”我说道，来拯救他。 “他不是嫉妒你，而是嫉妒你的成就。几年后他就会成为一名聪明的学者。

‘And he wants me to sink into a dunce, meantime,’ answered Catherine. ‘Yes, I hear him trying to spell and read to himself, and pretty blunders he makes! I wish you would repeat Chevy Chase as you did yesterday: it was extremely funny. I heard you; and I heard you turning over the dictionary to seek out the hard words, and then cursing because you couldn’t read their explanations!’
“他还想让我陷入困境，同时，”凯瑟琳回答道。 “是的，我听到他试图自己拼写和读书，但他犯了很多错误！”我希望你能像昨天一样重复切维蔡斯：这非常有趣。我听到你了；我听到你翻字典寻找难懂的单词，然后因为看不懂他们的解释而咒骂！

The young man evidently thought it too bad that he should be laughed at for his ignorance, and then laughed at for trying to remove it. I had a similar notion; and, remembering Mrs. Dean’s anecdote of his first attempt at enlightening the darkness in which he had been reared, I observed, ‘But, Mrs. Heathcliff, we have each had a commencement, and each stumbled and tottered on the threshold; had our teachers scorned instead of aiding us, we should stumble and totter yet.’
年轻人显然觉得太糟糕了，因为他的无知而被嘲笑，然后又因为试图消除它而被嘲笑。我也有类似的想法；想起迪安夫人第一次尝试启发他成长的黑暗经历的轶事，我观察到，“但是，希刺克厉夫夫人，我们每个人都有一个毕业典礼，每个人都在门槛上跌跌撞撞；我们每个人都经历了一次毕业典礼。”如果我们的老师不帮助我们而是嘲笑我们，我们就会跌倒、摇摇欲坠。”

‘Oh!’ she replied, ‘I don’t wish to limit his acquirements: still, he has no right to appropriate what is mine, and make it ridiculous to me with his vile mistakes and mispronunciations! Those books, both prose and verse, are consecrated to me by other associations; and I hate to have them debased and profaned in his mouth! Besides, of all, he has selected my favourite pieces that I love the most to repeat, as if out of deliberate malice.’
“哦！”她回答道，“我不想限制他的成就：但是，他没有权利侵占我的东西，并用他的卑鄙错误和错误发音让我感到可笑！”这些书，无论是散文还是诗歌，都是由其他协会奉献给我的。我讨厌他们在他嘴里被贬低和亵渎！此外，最重要的是，他选择了我最喜欢的作品，我最喜欢重复，仿佛是出于故意的恶意。

Hareton’s chest heaved in silence a minute: he laboured under a severe sense of mortification and wrath, which it was no easy task to suppress. I rose, and, from a gentlemanly idea of relieving his embarrassment, took up my station in the doorway, surveying the external prospect as I stood. He followed my example, and left the room; but presently reappeared, bearing half a dozen volumes in his hands, which he threw into Catherine’s lap, exclaiming, ‘Take them! I never want to hear, or read, or think of them again!’
哈里顿的胸口无声地起伏了一分钟：他在强烈的屈辱和愤怒中挣扎，要抑制这种感觉并不容易。我站了起来，出于绅士的想法，为了减轻他的尴尬，我站在门口，一边站着一边观察着外面的景色。他学着我的样子，离开了房间。但不久他又出现了，手里拿着六本书，他把它们扔到凯瑟琳的腿上，喊道：“拿走它们！”我再也不想听到、读到或想起它们！

‘I won’t have them now,’ she answered. ‘I shall connect them with you, and hate them.’
“我现在不想要它们了，”她回答道。 “我会把他们和你联系起来，并恨他们。”

She opened one that had obviously been often turned over, and read a portion in the drawling tone of a beginner; then laughed, and threw it from her. ‘And listen,’ she continued, provokingly, commencing a verse of an old ballad in the same fashion.
她打开一本显然经常被翻阅的书，用初学者拖长的语气读了一部分；然后大笑起来，把它从她身边扔掉。 “听着，”她继续说道，挑衅地，以同样的方式开始一首古老民谣的诗句。

But his self-love would endure no further torment: I heard, and not altogether disapprovingly, a manual cheek given to her saucy tongue. The little wretch had done her utmost to hurt her cousin’s sensitive though uncultivated feelings, and a physical argument was the only mode he had of balancing the account, and repaying its effects on the inflictor. He afterwards gathered the books and hurled them on the fire. I read in his countenance what anguish it was to offer that sacrifice to spleen. I fancied that as they consumed, he recalled the pleasure they had already imparted, and the triumph and ever-increasing pleasure he had anticipated from them; and I fancied I guessed the incitement to his secret studies also. He had been content with daily labour and rough animal enjoyments, till Catherine crossed his path. Shame at her scorn, and hope of her approval, were his first prompters to higher pursuits; and instead of guarding him from one and winning him to the other, his endeavours to raise himself had produced just the contrary result.
但他的自爱无法再承受更多的折磨：我听到了她对她俏皮的舌头的手动脸颊，但并不完全不赞成。这个小坏蛋竭尽全力伤害了她表弟敏感但未经教养的感情，而肢体冲突是他平衡这笔账并偿还加害者所受影响的唯一方式。随后，他把这些书收集起来，扔进火里。我从他的表情中读到，向脾脏献祭是多么痛苦。我想象着当他们吃东西时，他回想起他们已经给予的快乐，以及他期待从他们那里得到的胜利和不断增加的快乐；我想我也猜到了他秘密研究的动机。他一直满足于日常劳动和粗野的动物享受，直到凯瑟琳横亘在他的面前。对她的蔑视感到羞愧，并希望得到她的认可，这是他追求更高目标的最初动力。他努力提高自己的地位，但非但没有保护他免受其中一方的攻击，也没有把他赢得另一方的支持，反而产生了相反的结果。

‘Yes that’s all the good that such a brute as you can get from them!’ cried Catherine, sucking her damaged lip, and watching the conflagration with indignant eyes.
“是的，这就是你这样的畜生能从他们身上得到的好处！”凯瑟琳喊道，她吮吸着受损的嘴唇，用愤怒的眼睛看着这场大火。

‘You’d BETTER hold your tongue, now,’ he answered fiercely.
“现在你最好闭嘴，”他激烈地回答。

And his agitation precluded further speech; he advanced hastily to the entrance, where I made way for him to pass. But ere he had crossed the door-stones, Mr. Heathcliff, coming up the causeway, encountered him, and laying hold of his shoulder asked, ‘What’s to do now, my lad?’
他的激动使他无法再说话。他急忙走到入口处，我在那里给他让路。但他还没跨过门石，希刺克厉夫先生就沿着堤道走来，遇到了他，抓住他的肩膀问道：“现在该怎么办，我的小伙子？”

‘Naught, naught,’ he said, and broke away to enjoy his grief and anger in solitude.
“没什么，没什么。”他说，然后挣脱开来，独自享受他的悲伤和愤怒。

Heathcliff gazed after him, and sighed.
希刺克厉夫看着他的背影，叹了口气。

‘It will be odd if I thwart myself,’ he muttered, unconscious that I was behind him. ‘But when I look for his father in his face, I find HER every day more! How the devil is he so like? I can hardly bear to see him.’
“如果我阻止自己的话，那就奇怪了，”他嘀咕道，没有意识到我就在他身后。 “但是当我在他的脸上寻找他的父亲时，我发现她一天比一天多！”他怎么这么像魔鬼？我简直不忍心见到他。

He bent his eyes to the ground, and walked moodily in. There was a restless, anxious expression in his countenance. I had never remarked there before; and he looked sparer in person. His daughter-in-law, on perceiving him through the window, immediately escaped to the kitchen, so that I remained alone.
他垂眸看着地面，闷闷不乐地走了进去，脸上带着焦躁不安的神情。我以前从未说过那里；而且他本人看上去也比较清闲。他的儿媳妇透过窗户看到他，立即逃到厨房，只剩下我一个人。

‘I’m glad to see you out of doors again, Mr. Lockwood,’ he said, in reply to my greeting; ‘from selfish motives partly: I don’t think I could readily supply your loss in this desolation. I’ve wondered more than once what brought you here.’
“我很高兴再次在门外见到你，洛克伍德先生，”他回答我的问候时说道。 “部分出于自私的动机：我认为我无法轻易弥补你在这种荒凉中的损失。我不止一次地想知道是什么把你带到了这里。

‘An idle whim, I fear, sir,’ was my answer; ‘or else an idle whim is going to spirit me away. I shall set out for London next week; and I must give you warning that I feel no disposition to retain Thrushcross Grange beyond the twelve months I agreed to rent it. I believe I shall not live there any more.’
“我担心，先生，我只是一时兴起。”我的回答是。 “否则一个闲散的心血来潮就会把我偷走。”下周我将出发去伦敦；我必须警告你，在我同意租用画眉田庄的十二个月之后，我不打算继续保留它。我相信我不会再住在那里了。

‘Oh, indeed; you’re tired of being banished from the world, are you?’ he said. ‘But if you be coming to plead off paying for a place you won’t occupy, your journey is useless: I never relent in exacting my due from any one.’
哦，确实如此；你厌倦了被世界驱逐，是吗？”他说。 “但是，如果你来请求支付一个你不会占用的地方的费用，那么你的旅程就没用了：我从不松懈地向任何人索要我应得的费用。”

‘I’m coming to plead off nothing about it,’ I exclaimed, considerably irritated. ‘Should you wish it, I’ll settle with you now,’ and I drew my note-book from my pocket.
“我来这里并不是要辩解什么，”我相当恼怒地喊道。 “如果你愿意的话，我现在就和你算账。”我从口袋里掏出笔记本。

‘No, no,’ he replied, coolly; ‘you’ll leave sufficient behind to cover your debts, if you fail to return: I’m not in such a hurry. Sit down and take your dinner with us; a guest that is safe from repeating his visit can generally be made welcome. Catherine bring the things in: where are you?’
“不，不，”他冷静地回答。 “如果你不回来，你会留下足够的钱来偿还你的债务：我不那么着急。坐下来和我们一起吃晚饭；通常可以欢迎不会再次光临的客人。凯瑟琳把东西拿进来：你在哪里？

Catherine reappeared, bearing a tray of knives and forks.
凯瑟琳再次出现，端着一盘刀叉。

‘You may get your dinner with Joseph,’ muttered Heathcliff, aside, ‘and remain in the kitchen till he is gone.’
“你可以和约瑟夫一起吃晚饭，”希刺克厉夫在一旁低声说道，“然后留在厨房里，直到他离开。”

She obeyed his directions very punctually: perhaps she had no temptation to transgress. Living among clowns and misanthropists, she probably cannot appreciate a better class of people when she meets them.
她非常准时地服从他的指示：也许她没有违反的诱惑。生活在小丑和厌世者中间，当她遇到更好的人时，她可能无法欣赏他们。

With Mr. Heathcliff, grim and saturnine, on the one hand, and Hareton, absolutely dumb, on the other, I made a somewhat cheerless meal, and bade adieu early. I would have departed by the back way, to get a last glimpse of Catherine and annoy old Joseph; but Hareton received orders to lead up my horse, and my host himself escorted me to the door, so I could not fulfil my wish.
一方面是希刺克厉夫先生，表情严肃，阴郁，另一方面是哈里顿，绝对愚蠢，我做了一顿有点不愉快的饭菜，然后提前告别了。我本来会从后面的路离开，去看凯瑟琳最后一眼，然后惹恼老约瑟夫。但哈里顿接到命令牵我的马，主人亲自护送我到门口，所以我无法实现我的愿望。

‘How dreary life gets over in that house!’ I reflected, while riding down the road. ‘What a realisation of something more romantic than a fairy tale it would have been for Mrs. Linton Heathcliff, had she and I struck up an attachment, as her good nurse desired, and migrated together into the stirring atmosphere of the town!’
“那所房子里的生活多么沉闷啊！”我一边骑车沿着路走，一边想道。 “如果我和林惇·希刺克厉夫夫人像她的好护士所希望的那样，建立起一种依恋，并一起迁移到小镇的激动人心的气氛中，那对林惇·希刺克厉夫夫人来说，这将是多么浪漫的事情啊！”

Chapter XXXII
第三十二章

1802. This September I was invited to devastate the moors of a friend in the north, and on my journey to his abode, I unexpectedly came within fifteen miles of Gimmerton. The ostler at a roadside public-house was holding a pail of water to refresh my horses, when a cart of very green oats, newly reaped, passed by, and he remarked, ‘Yon’s frough Gimmerton, nah! They’re allas three wick’ after other folk wi’ ther harvest.’
1802 年 9 月，我受邀前往北方一位朋友的荒野进行破坏，在前往他住所的途中，我出乎意料地来到了距离吉默顿不到 15 英里的地方。路边酒馆里的马夫正拿着一桶水让我的马恢复活力，这时一车刚收割的绿燕麦经过，他说：“你是从吉默顿来的，不！”他们比其他人收获了三灯芯。

‘Gimmerton?’ I repeated my residence in that locality had already grown dim and dreamy. ‘Ah! I know. How far is it from this?’
“吉默顿？”我重复了一遍，我在那个地方的住所已经变得昏暗而梦幻。 '啊！我知道。离这个还有多远？

‘Happen fourteen mile o’er th’ hills; and a rough road,’ he answered.
‘发生在山上十四英里处；和一条崎岖的道路，”他回答道。

A sudden impulse seized me to visit Thrushcross Grange. It was scarcely noon, and I conceived that I might as well pass the night under my own roof as in an inn. Besides, I could spare a day easily to arrange matters with my landlord, and thus save myself the trouble of invading the neighbourhood again. Having rested awhile, I directed my servant to inquire the way to the village; and, with great fatigue to our beasts, we managed the distance in some three hours.
我突然有一种冲动想去参观画眉田庄。那时还不到中午，我想，我不妨在自己的屋檐下，或者在客栈里过夜。而且，我可以轻松地抽出一天的时间与房东安排事情，这样就省去了再次侵入邻居的麻烦。休息了一会儿，我就吩咐仆人打听进村的路。由于我们的牲口非常疲劳，我们在大约三个小时内完成了这段距离。

I left him there, and proceeded down the valley alone. The grey church looked greyer, and the lonely churchyard lonelier. I distinguished a moor-sheep cropping the short turf on the graves. It was sweet, warm weather too warm for travelling; but the heat did not hinder me from enjoying the delightful scenery above and below: had I seen it nearer August, I’m sure it would have tempted me to waste a month among its solitudes. In winter nothing more dreary, in summer nothing more divine, than those glens shut in by hills, and those bluff, bold swells of heath.
我把他留在那里，独自向山谷走去。灰色的教堂显得更加灰暗，孤独的墓地显得更加孤独。我辨认出一只沼泽羊正在啃食坟墓上的短草皮。天气甜美温暖，对于旅行来说太热了。但炎热并没有妨碍我欣赏上面和下面的宜人风景：如果我在接近八月的时候看到它，我确信它会诱惑我在它的孤独中浪费一个月的时间。冬天没有什么比那些被群山包围的峡谷和那些陡峭的荒野更凄凉的了，夏天也没有什么比这更神圣的了。

I reached the Grange before sunset, and knocked for admittance; but the family had retreated into the back premises, I judged, by one thin, blue wreath, curling from the kitchen chimney, and they did not hear. I rode into the court. Under the porch, a girl of nine or ten sat knitting, and an old woman reclined on the housesteps, smoking a meditative pipe.
我在日落前到达了农庄，敲门请求进入。但根据我从厨房烟囱里卷起的一圈薄薄的蓝色花环判断，这家人已经退到后面的房子里了，他们没有听到。我骑着马走进了法庭。门廊下，一个九岁或十岁的女孩坐在针织品上，一位老妇人斜靠在屋阶上，抽着烟斗冥想。

‘Is Mrs. Dean within?’ I demanded of the dame.
“迪恩夫人在吗？”我问那位女士。

‘Mistress Dean? Nay!’ she answered, ‘she doesn’t bide here: shoo’s up at th’ Heights.’
“迪恩女士？不！”她回答道，“她不待在这里：快到高地了。”

‘Are you the housekeeper, then?’ I continued.
“那么你就是管家吗？”我继续说道。

‘Eea, aw keep th’ hause,’ she replied.
“呃，保留房子吧，”她回答道。

‘Well, I’m Mr. Lockwood, the master. Are there any rooms to lodge me in, I wonder? I wish to stay all night.’
“嗯，我是洛克伍德先生，主人。我想知道有房间可以住宿吗？我想留下来过夜。

‘T’ maister!’ she cried in astonishment. ‘Whet, whoiver knew yah wur coming? Yah sud ha’ send word. They’s nowt norther dry nor mensful abaht t’ place: nowt there isn’t!’
“老师！”她惊讶地喊道。 ‘呃，谁知道你会来？是的，哈’发消息。他们既不是北方干燥的地方，也不是令人愉快的地方：现在没有！

She threw down her pipe and bustled in, the girl followed, and I entered too; soon perceiving that her report was true, and, moreover, that I had almost upset her wits by my unwelcome apparition, I bade her be composed. I would go out for a walk; and, meantime she must try to prepare a corner of a sitting-room for me to sup in, and a bedroom to sleep in. No sweeping and dusting, only good fire and dry sheets were necessary. She seemed willing to do her best; though she thrust the hearth-brush into the grates in mistake for the poker, and malappropriated several other articles of her craft: but I retired, confiding in her energy for a resting-place against my return. Wuthering Heights was the goal of my proposed excursion. An afterthought brought me back, when I had quitted the court.
她扔下烟斗，匆匆走进去，女孩也跟着进去，我也进去了。很快我就意识到她的报告是真实的，而且，我不受欢迎的幽灵几乎让她心烦意乱，我吩咐她冷静下来。我会出去散步；与此同时，她必须设法为我准备一个客厅的角落供我吃饭，并准备一间卧室供我睡觉。不需要打扫和除尘，只需要良好的火和干燥的床单。她似乎愿意尽力而为；尽管她把炉刷误认为是拨火棍，并挪用了她的其他几件手艺物品：但我还是退休了，相信她有能力为我回来提供一个休息的地方。呼啸山庄是我这次旅行的目标。当我离开法庭时，一个事后的想法把我拉了回来。

‘All well at the Heights?’ I inquired of the woman.
“在高地还好吗？”我问那个女人。

‘Eea, f’r owt ee knaw!’ she answered, skurrying away with a pan of hot cinders.
“哎呀，我知道！”她回答道，拿着一锅热煤渣匆匆跑开。

I would have asked why Mrs. Dean had deserted the Grange, but it was impossible to delay her at such a crisis, so I turned away and made my exit, rambling leisurely along, with the glow of a sinking sun behind, and the mild glory of a rising moon in front one fading, and the other brightening as I quitted the park, and climbed the stony by-road branching off to Mr. Heathcliff’s dwelling. Before I arrived in sight of it, all that remained of day was a beamless amber light along the west: but I could see every pebble on the path, and every blade of grass, by that splendid moon. I had neither to climb the gate nor to knock it yielded to my hand. That is an improvement, I thought. And I noticed another, by the aid of my nostrils; a fragrance of stocks and wallflowers wafted on the air from amongst the homely fruittrees.
我本来想问迪恩夫人为什么要离开田庄，但在如此危急的时刻，不可能耽误她，所以我转身离开，悠闲地走着，身后是落日的余辉，还有和煦的阳光。当我离开公园，爬上通向希刺克厉夫先生住处的石质小路时，前面一轮冉冉升起的月亮的光辉逐渐消退，而另一个逐渐明亮。在我看到它之前，白天剩下的只是西边无光束的琥珀色光：但我可以在灿烂的月亮下看到路上的每一个鹅卵石和每一片草叶。我既不用爬门，也不用敲门，就凭我的手了。我想，这是一种进步。借助鼻孔，我注意到了另一个；空气中弥漫着朴实的果树间散发出的树干和壁花的香气。

Both doors and lattices were open; and yet, as is usually the case in a coal-district, a fine red fire illumined the chimney: the comfort which the eye derives from it renders the extra heat endurable. But the house of Wuthering Heights is so large that the inmates have plenty of space for withdrawing out of its influence; and accordingly what inmates there were had stationed themselves not far from one of the windows. I could both see them and hear them talk before I entered, and looked and listened in consequence; being moved thereto by a mingled sense of curiosity and envy, that grew as I lingered.
门和窗子都开着；然而，正如煤区常见的情况一样，一团红色的火照亮了烟囱：眼睛从中获得的舒适感使额外的热量变得可以忍受。但呼啸山庄的房子太大了，囚犯们有足够的空间摆脱它的影响。因此，那里的囚犯就驻扎在离一扇窗户不远的地方。在我进去之前，我既可以看到他们，也可以听到他们说话，因此我可以观察和倾听。我被一种混合着好奇和嫉妒的感觉所感动，这种感觉随着我的逗留而增长。

‘Con-TRARY!’ said a voice as sweet as a silver bell. ‘That for the third time, you dunce! I’m not going to tell you again. Recollect, or I’ll pull your hair!’
“Con-TRARY！”一个声音如银铃般甜美地说。 ‘这已经是第三次了，你个笨蛋！我不会再告诉你了。记住，不然我就揪你的头发！”

‘Contrary, then,’ answered another, in deep but softened tones. ‘And now, kiss me, for minding so well.’
“那么，恰恰相反，”另一个人用低沉但柔和的语气回答道。 “现在，吻我吧，因为我这么细心。”

‘No, read it over first correctly, without a single mistake.’
“不行，先读一遍，正确无误。”

The male speaker began to read: he was a young man, respectably dressed and seated at a table, having a book before him. His handsome features glowed with pleasure, and his eyes kept impatiently wandering from the page to a small white hand over his shoulder, which recalled him by a smart slap on the cheek, whenever its owner detected such signs of inattention. Its owner stood behind; her light, shining ringlets blending, at intervals, with his brown looks, as she bent to superintend his studies; and her face it was lucky he could not see her face, or he would never have been so steady. I could; and I bit my lip in spite, at having thrown away the chance I might have had of doing something besides staring at its smiting beauty.
男发言者开始朗读：他是一位年轻人，衣着得体，坐在桌旁，面前放着一本书。他英俊的容貌闪烁着喜悦的光芒，他的目光不断地不耐烦地从书页上移到肩上一只白色的小手上，每当它的主人发现这种不注意的迹象时，这只手就会在脸颊上轻轻一巴掌，把他召回来。它的主人站在后面；当她弯腰指导他的学习时，她浅色、闪亮的卷发时不时地与他棕色的外表融为一体。还有她的脸，幸好他看不到她的脸，不然他永远不会这么沉稳。我可以;尽管如此，我还是咬住了嘴唇，因为我放弃了除了凝视它令人惊叹的美丽之外还能做点什么的机会。

The task was done, not free from further blunders; but the pupil claimed a reward, and received at least five kisses; which, however, he generously returned. Then they came to the door, and from their conversation I judged they were about to issue out and have a walk on the moors. I supposed I should be condemned in Hareton Earnshaw’s heart, if not by his mouth, to the lowest pit in the infernal regions if I showed my unfortunate person in his neighbourhood then; and feeling very mean and malignant, I skulked round to seek refuge in the kitchen. There was unobstructed admittance on that side also; and at the door sat my old friend Nelly Dean, sewing and singing a song; which was often interrupted from within by harsh words of scorn and intolerance, uttered in far from musical accents.
任务已经完成，但仍会犯更多错误。但学生却要求获得奖励，并且至少得到了五个吻；然而，他慷慨地回报了这一点。然后他们来到了门口，从他们的谈话中我判断他们正要出去去荒野散步。我想，如果我当时在哈里顿·恩肖的邻居面前展示我的不幸之人，即使不是在他的嘴上，我也会在他的心里受到谴责，被判入地狱的最深的深渊。我感到非常卑鄙和恶毒，便躲到厨房里寻求庇护。那边也有无障碍通道。门口坐着我的老朋友耐莉·迪恩，一边做针线活，一边唱着歌。谈话内容经常被内部带有蔑视和不宽容的严厉话语打断，这些话语的口音与音乐的口音相去甚远。

‘I’d rayther, by th’ haulf, hev’ ‘em swearing i’ my lugs fro’h morn to neeght, nor hearken ye hahsiver!’ said the tenant of the kitchen, in answer to an unheard speech of Nelly’s. ‘It’s a blazing shame, that I cannot oppen t’ blessed Book, but yah set up them glories to sattan, and all t’ flaysome wickednesses that iver were born into th’ warld! Oh! ye’re a raight nowt; and shoo’s another; and that poor lad ‘ll be lost atween ye. Poor lad!’ he added, with a groan; ‘he’s witched: I’m sartin on’t. Oh, Lord, judge ‘em, for there’s norther law nor justice among wer rullers!’
“我希望他们从早上起床就发誓，你也别听你的！”厨房的房客回答耐莉那句闻所未闻的讲话。 “我无法打开这本神圣的书，这是一种极大的耻辱，但你却把它们的荣耀归给了撒旦，以及世界上诞生的所有那些令人厌恶的邪恶！”哦！你是个正确的人；嘘是另一个；那个可怜的小伙子将会迷失在你们中间。可怜的小伙子！”他呻吟着补充道。 “他被施了魔法：我对此很着迷。”哦，主啊，审判他们吧，因为我们的统治者中没有北方的法律，也没有正义！”

‘No! or we should be sitting in flaming fagots, I suppose,’ retorted the singer. ‘But wisht, old man, and read your Bible like a Christian, and never mind me. This is ‘Fairy Annie’s Wedding’ a bonny tune it goes to a dance.’
'不！或者我想我们应该坐在燃烧的柴堆里，”歌手反驳道。 “但是，老伙计，像基督徒一样读圣经吧，别管我。”这是《仙女安妮的婚礼》，一首美妙的曲子，适合跳舞。

Mrs. Dean was about to recommence, when I advanced; and recognising me directly, she jumped to her feet, crying ‘Why, bless you, Mr. Lockwood! How could you think of returning in this way? All’s shut up at Thrushcross Grange. You should have given us notice!’
当我走上前时，迪恩夫人正要继续讲下去。她认出了我，立刻跳了起来，喊道：“哦，祝福你，洛克伍德先生！”怎么会想到以这种方式回来呢？画眉田庄一切都被封锁了。你应该通知我们！

‘I’ve arranged to be accommodated there, for as long as I shall stay,’ I answered. ‘I depart again to-morrow. And how are you transplanted here, Mrs. Dean? tell me that.’
“我已经安排住在那里，只要我待在那里，”我回答道。 “我明天再出发。”迪恩女士，你是怎么被移植到这里的？告诉我。'

‘Zillah left, and Mr. Heathcliff wished me to come, soon after you went to London, and stay till you returned. But, step in, pray! Have you walked from Gimmerton this evening?’
“齐拉走了，希刺克厉夫先生希望我在你去伦敦后不久就来，一直呆到你回来为止。”但是，请介入，祈祷！你今晚从吉默顿步行过来了吗？

‘From the Grange,’ I replied; ‘and while they make me lodging room there, I want to finish my business with your master; because I don’t think of having another opportunity in a hurry.’
“来自田庄，”我回答道。 ‘当他们在那里给我安排住宿的时候，我想和你的主人完成我的事情；因为我不认为急于有另一个机会。

‘What business, sir?’ said Nelly, conducting me into the house. ‘He’s gone out at present, and won’t return soon.’
“什么事，先生？”耐莉边说边把我带进了屋子。 “他现在出去了，不会很快回来。”

‘About the rent,’ I answered.
“关于房租。”我回答道。

‘Oh! then it is with Mrs. Heathcliff you must settle,’ she observed; ‘or rather with me. She has not learnt to manage her affairs yet, and I act for her: there’s nobody else.’
'哦！那么你就必须和希刺克厉夫太太解决了，”她说道。 ‘或者更确切地说是和我一起。她还没学会处理自己的事情，我就替她行事：没有其他人了。

I looked surprised.
我看起来很惊讶。

‘Ah! you have not heard of Heathcliff’s death, I see,’ she continued.
'啊！我明白了，你没有听说过希斯克利夫的死，”她继续说道。

‘Heathcliff dead!’ I exclaimed, astonished. ‘How long ago?’
“希斯克利夫死了！”我惊讶地喊道。 '多久以前？'

‘Three months since: but sit down, and let me take your hat, and I’ll tell you all about it. Stop, you have had nothing to eat, have you?’
“三个月后：但是坐下来，让我拿走你的帽子，我会告诉你这一切。停下来，你还没吃东西吧？

‘I want nothing: I have ordered supper at home. You sit down too. I never dreamt of his dying! Let me hear how it came to pass. You say you don’t expect them back for some time the young people?’
“我什么都不想要：我已经在家里订了晚饭。你也坐下吧。我做梦也没想到他会死！让我听听它是如何发生的。你说你不希望他们在一段时间内回归年轻人？

‘No I have to scold them every evening for their late rambles: but they don’t care for me. At least, have a drink of our old ale; it will do you good: you seem weary.’
“不，我每天晚上都必须责骂他们迟到的漫步：但他们不在乎我。至少，喝一杯我们的老啤酒；这对你有好处：你看起来很累。

She hastened to fetch it before I could refuse, and I heard Joseph asking whether ‘it warn’t a crying scandal that she should have followers at her time of life? And then, to get them jocks out o’ t’ maister’s cellar! He fair shaamed to ‘bide still and see it.’
在我拒绝之前，她赶紧去拿它，我听到约瑟夫问，“她在她这个年纪就有追随者，这难道不是一个令人哭笑不得的丑闻吗？”然后，把他们从大师的地窖里拿出来！他很羞愧地“静静地等着看”。

She did not stay to retaliate, but re-entered in a minute, bearing a reaming silver pint, whose contents I lauded with becoming earnestness. And afterwards she furnished me with the sequel of Heathcliff’s history. He had a ‘queer’ end, as she expressed it.
她没有留下来报复，而是在一分钟后又进来了，手里拿着一品脱的银品脱酒，我对里面的东西赞不绝口，变得诚恳起来。后来她给我提供了希斯克利夫历史的续集。正如她所说，他的结局很“奇怪”。

I was summoned to Wuthering Heights, within a fortnight of your leaving us, she said; and I obeyed joyfully, for Catherine’s sake. My first interview with her grieved and shocked me: she had altered so much since our separation. Mr. Heathcliff did not explain his reasons for taking a new mind about my coming here; he only told me he wanted me, and he was tired of seeing Catherine: I must make the little parlour my sitting-room, and keep her with me. It was enough if he were obliged to see her once or twice a day. She seemed pleased at this arrangement; and, by degrees, I smuggled over a great number of books, and other articles, that had formed her amusement at the Grange; and flattered myself we should get on in tolerable comfort. The delusion did not last long. Catherine, contented at first, in a brief space grew irritable and restless. For one thing, she was forbidden to move out of the garden, and it fretted her sadly to be confined to its narrow bounds as spring drew on; for another, in following the house, I was forced to quit her frequently, and she complained of loneliness: she preferred quarrelling with Joseph in the kitchen to sitting at peace in her solitude. I did not mind their skirmishes: but Hareton was often obliged to seek the kitchen also, when the master wanted to have the house to himself! and though in the beginning she either left it at his approach, or quietly joined in my occupations, and shunned remarking or addressing him and though he was always as sullen and silent as possible after a while, she changed her behaviour, and became incapable of letting him alone: talking at him; commenting on his stupidity and idleness; expressing her wonder how he could endure the life he lived how he could sit a whole evening staring into the fire, and dozing.
在你离开我们后的两周内，我被召唤到呼啸山庄，她说；看在凯瑟琳的份上，我高兴地服从了。我对她的第一次采访让我感到悲伤和震惊：自从我们分手以来，她发生了很大的变化。希刺克厉夫先生没有解释他对我来这里改变主意的原因。他只告诉我他想要我，而且他厌倦了见到凯瑟琳：我必须把小客厅变成我的起居室，让她陪在我身边。如果他必须每天见她一两次就足够了。她似乎对这个安排很满意。渐渐地，我偷运了大量书籍和其他物品，这些书籍和其他物品成为了她在田庄的消遣。我还自以为我们应该过得还算舒适。这种错觉并没有持续多久。凯瑟琳起初很满足，但在短暂的时间内变得烦躁不安。一方面，她被禁止走出花园，随着春天的临近，她被限制在花园狭窄的范围内，这让她感到悲伤地烦恼；另一方面，她也被禁止离开花园。另一方面，在跟踪房子的过程中，我经常被迫离开她，她抱怨孤独：她宁愿在厨房里与约瑟夫争吵，也不愿独自一人安静地坐着。我不介意他们的小冲突：但是当主人想独占房子时，哈里顿常常不得不去厨房！虽然一开始她要么在他走近时就离开了，要么悄悄地加入我的工作，避免评论或对他说话，尽管一段时间后他总是尽可能地闷闷不乐和沉默，但她改变了她的行为，变得无能为力让他独自一人：对他说话；评论他的愚蠢和懒惰；她表达了她的好奇心，他如何能够忍受他所过的生活，如何能够坐一整晚，盯着炉火，打瞌睡。

‘He’s just like a dog, is he not, Ellen?’ she once observed, ‘or a cart-horse? He does his work, eats his food, and sleeps eternally! What a blank, dreary mind he must have! Do you ever dream, Hareton? And, if you do, what is it about? But you can’t speak to me!’
“他就像一只狗，不是吗，艾伦？”她曾经评论道，“或者是一匹拉车的马？他做他的工作，吃他的食物，然后永远睡觉！他的头脑该是多么空虚、多么沉闷啊！哈里顿，你做过梦吗？如果你这样做了，那是关于什么的？但你不能跟我说话！”

Then she looked at him; but he would neither open his mouth nor look again.
然后她看着他；但他既不肯张嘴，也不肯再看一眼。

‘He’s, perhaps, dreaming now,’ she continued. ‘He twitched his shoulder as Juno twitches hers. Ask him, Ellen.’
“他现在也许正在做梦，”她继续说道。 “当朱诺抽动她的肩膀时，他抽动了自己的肩膀。问问他吧，艾伦。”

‘Mr. Hareton will ask the master to send you up-stairs, if you don’t behave!’ I said. He had not only twitched his shoulder but clenched his fist, as if tempted to use it.
'先生。如果你不乖的话，哈里顿会让主人送你上楼的！”我说。他不仅肩膀抽搐，还握紧了拳头，似乎很想用它。

‘I know why Hareton never speaks, when I am in the kitchen,’ she exclaimed, on another occasion. ‘He is afraid I shall laugh at him. Ellen, what do you think? He began to teach himself to read once; and, because I laughed, he burned his books, and dropped it: was he not a fool?’
“我知道为什么哈里顿在厨房里从不说话，”她在另一个场合大声说道。 “他害怕我会嘲笑他。艾伦，你觉得怎么样？他开始自学读书一次；因为我笑了，他就把书烧掉了：他不是个傻子吗？

‘Were not you naughty?’ I said; ‘answer me that.’
“你不淘气吗？”我说。 “回答我。”

‘Perhaps I was,’ she went on; ‘but I did not expect him to be so silly. Hareton, if I gave you a book, would you take it now? I’ll try!’
“也许我是，”她继续说道。 ‘但我没想到他这么傻。哈里顿，如果我给你一本书，你现在会拿走吗？我会尽力！'

She placed one she had been perusing on his hand; he flung it off, and muttered, if she did not give over, he would break her neck.
她把她一直在阅读的一本放在他的手上。他把它扔掉，嘟哝道，如果她不屈服，他就会扭断她的脖子。

‘Well, I shall put it here,’ she said, ‘in the table-drawer; and I’m going to bed.’
“好吧，我把它放在这儿，”她说，“放在桌子抽屉里；”我要睡觉了。

Then she whispered me to watch whether he touched it, and departed. But he would not come near it; and so I informed her in the morning, to her great disappointment. I saw she was sorry for his persevering sulkiness and indolence: her conscience reproved her for frightening him off improving himself: she had done it effectually. But her ingenuity was at work to remedy the injury: while I ironed, or pursued other such stationary employments as I could not well do in the parlour, she would bring some pleasant volume and read it aloud to me. When Hareton was there, she generally paused in an interesting part, and left the book lying about: that she did repeatedly; but he was as obstinate as a mule, and, instead of snatching at her bait, in wet weather he took to smoking with Joseph; and they sat like automatons, one on each side of the fire, the elder happily too deaf to understand her wicked nonsense, as he would have called it, the younger doing his best to seem to disregard it. On fine evenings the latter followed his shooting expeditions, and Catherine yawned and sighed, and teased me to talk to her, and ran off into the court or garden the moment I began; and, as a last resource, cried, and said she was tired of living: her life was useless.
然后她低声对我说，看他是否碰过它，然后就离开了。但他不愿意靠近它；所以我早上就通知了她，这让她非常失望。我看到她对他持续的闷闷不乐和懒惰感到抱歉：她的良心责备她吓坏了他提高自己：她已经有效地做到了。但她的聪明才智正在发挥作用，以弥补这种伤害：当我熨烫衣服或从事其他我在客厅里做不好的固定工作时，她会带来一些令人愉快的书并大声朗读给我听。当哈里顿在那里时，她通常会在有趣的部分停下来，然后把书放在一边：她反复这样做；但他像骡子一样顽固，不但没有抓住她的诱饵，反而在潮湿的天气里和约瑟夫一起抽烟。他们像机器人一样坐在火边，两边各一个，年长的人高兴地聋了，无法理解她邪恶的胡言乱语，正如他所说的那样，年轻的人尽力表现出无视它。在晴朗的夜晚，后者跟随他的狩猎探险，凯瑟琳打着哈欠，叹了口气，逗我和她说话，我一开始就跑进了庭院或花园。作为最后的资源，她哭了，说她厌倦了生活：她的生活毫无用处。

Mr. Heathcliff, who grew more and more disinclined to society, had almost banished Earnshaw from his apartment. Owing to an accident at the commencement of March, he became for some days a fixture in the kitchen. His gun burst while out on the hills by himself; a splinter cut his arm, and he lost a good deal of blood before he could reach home. The consequence was that, perforce, he was condemned to the fireside and tranquillity, till he made it up again. It suited Catherine to have him there: at any rate, it made her hate her room up-stairs more than ever: and she would compel me to find out business below, that she might accompany me.
希刺克厉夫先生越来越不喜欢社交，几乎把恩肖赶出了他的公寓。由于三月初的一次事故，他连续几天成为厨房里的常客。当他独自一人在山上时，他的枪突然爆炸了。一根碎片割伤了他的手臂，他在回家之前流了很多血。结果，他被迫在炉边享受宁静，直到他再次弥补。让他在那儿很适合凯瑟琳：无论如何，这让她比以往任何时候都更讨厌楼上的房间：而且她会强迫我去楼下打听生意，这样她就可以陪我。

On Easter Monday, Joseph went to Gimmerton fair with some cattle; and, in the afternoon, I was busy getting up linen in the kitchen. Earnshaw sat, morose as usual, at the chimney corner, and my little mistress was beguiling an idle hour with drawing pictures on the window-panes, varying her amusement by smothered bursts of songs, and whispered ejaculations, and quick glances of annoyance and impatience in the direction of her cousin, who steadfastly smoked, and looked into the grate. At a notice that I could do with her no longer intercepting my light, she removed to the hearthstone. I bestowed little attention on her proceedings, but, presently, I heard her begin ‘I’ve found out, Hareton, that I want that I’m glad that I should like you to be my cousin now, if you had not grown so cross to me, and so rough.’
复活节星期一，约瑟夫带着一些牛去了吉默顿集市。下午，我忙着在厨房里收拾床单。恩萧像往常一样闷闷不乐地坐在烟囱的角落里，而我的小情妇则在窗玻璃上画画，消磨着闲暇的时光，她的娱乐方式则以令人窒息的歌曲、低声的射精、以及恼怒和不耐烦的快速扫视来改变她的娱乐方式。她朝表弟的方向走去，她坚定地抽烟，看着壁炉。当我注意到她不再拦截我的光线时，她移到了炉石上。我很少关注她的举动，但是，不久之后，我听到她开始说道：“我发现，哈里顿，我希望我现在很高兴你能成为我的表弟，如果你没有长成这样的话。”对我横冲直撞，而且很粗暴。

Hareton returned no answer.
哈里顿没有回答。

‘Hareton, Hareton, Hareton! do you hear?’ she continued.
“哈里顿，哈里顿，哈里顿！你听到了吗？”她继续说道。

‘Get off wi’ ye!’ he growled, with uncompromising gruffness.
“滚开！”他粗声粗气地咆哮道。

‘Let me take that pipe,’ she said, cautiously advancing her hand and abstracting it from his mouth.
“让我拿起那根烟斗，”她说，小心翼翼地伸出手，把它从他嘴里抽出来。

Before he could attempt to recover it, it was broken, and behind the fire. He swore at her and seized another.
在他试图恢复它之前，它就被打破了，并且被火烧了。他咒骂她并抓住了另一个。

‘Stop,’ she cried, ‘you must listen to me first; and I can’t speak while those clouds are floating in my face.’
“停下来，”她喊道，“你必须先听我说；当那些乌云飘浮在我脸上时，我无法说话。”

‘Will you go to the devil!’ he exclaimed, ferociously, ‘and let me be!’
“你见鬼去吧！”他凶狠地喊道，“放开我吧！”

‘No,’ she persisted, ‘I won’t: I can’t tell what to do to make you talk to me; and you are determined not to understand. When I call you stupid, I don’t mean anything: I don’t mean that I despise you. Come, you shall take notice of me, Hareton: you are my cousin, and you shall own me.’
“不，”她坚持道，“我不会：我不知道该怎么做才能让你跟我说话；而你却决意不去理解。当我说你愚蠢时，我没有任何意思：我并不是说我鄙视你。来吧，你要注意我，哈里顿：你是我的表弟，你将拥有我。

‘I shall have naught to do wi’ you and your mucky pride, and your damned mocking tricks!’ he answered. ‘I’ll go to hell, body and soul, before I look sideways after you again. Side out o’ t’ gate, now, this minute!’
“我不会与你和你肮脏的骄傲，还有你该死的嘲笑伎俩有任何关系！”他回答道。 ‘在我再次斜视你之前，我的身体和灵魂都会下地狱。走出大门，现在，就这一分钟！

Catherine frowned, and retreated to the window-seat chewing her lip, and endeavouring, by humming an eccentric tune, to conceal a growing tendency to sob.
凯瑟琳皱起眉头，退到靠窗的座位上，咬着嘴唇，哼着一首古怪的曲子，试图掩饰自己日益增长的抽泣倾向。

‘You should be friends with your cousin, Mr. Hareton,’ I interrupted, ‘since she repents of her sauciness. It would do you a great deal of good: it would make you another man to have her for a companion.’
“你应该和你的表弟哈里顿先生成为朋友，”我打断道，“因为她为自己的无礼行为感到后悔。”这会给你带来很多好处：有她作伴会让你变成另一个男人。”

‘A companion!’ he cried; ‘when she hates me, and does not think me fit to wipe her shoon! Nay, if it made me a king, I’d not be scorned for seeking her good-will any more.’
“一个同伴！”他喊道。 ‘当她恨我，并且认为我不适合为她擦屁股的时候！不，如果这能让我成为国王，我就不会再因为寻求她的善意而受到蔑视了。

‘It is not I who hate you, it is you who hate me!’ wept Cathy, no longer disguising her trouble. ‘You hate me as much as Mr. Heathcliff does, and more.’
“不是我恨你，而是你恨我！”凯茜哭泣着，不再掩饰她的烦恼。 “你和希刺克厉夫先生一样恨我，甚至更恨我。”

‘You’re a damned liar,’ began Earnshaw: ‘why have I made him angry, by taking your part, then, a hundred times? and that when you sneered at and despised me, and Go on plaguing me, and I’ll step in yonder, and say you worried me out of the kitchen!’
“你是个该死的骗子，”恩萧开始说道：“那么，我一百次站在你这边，为什么要惹他生气呢？当你嘲笑我、鄙视我，继续困扰我时，我会走到那边，说你让我担心出厨房了！

‘I didn’t know you took my part,’ she answered, drying her eyes; ‘and I was miserable and bitter at everybody; but now I thank you, and beg you to forgive me: what can I do besides?’
“我不知道你支持我，”她擦干眼睛回答道。 “我对每个人都感到痛苦和痛苦；但现在我感谢你，请求你原谅我：除了我还能做什么呢？

She returned to the hearth, and frankly extended her hand. He blackened and scowled like a thunder-cloud, and kept his fists resolutely clenched, and his gaze fixed on the ground. Catherine, by instinct, must have divined it was obdurate perversity, and not dislike, that prompted this dogged conduct; for, after remaining an instant undecided, she stooped and impressed on his cheek a gentle kiss. The little rogue thought I had not seen her, and, drawing back, she took her former station by the window, quite demurely. I shook my head reprovingly, and then she blushed and whispered ‘Well! what should I have done, Ellen? He wouldn’t shake hands, and he wouldn’t look: I must show him some way that I like him that I want to be friends.’
她回到炉边，坦白地伸出了手。他脸色一黑，眉头如雷云，双拳坚决握紧，目光死死地盯着地面。凯瑟琳本能地猜到，促成这种顽固行为的是顽固的反常行为，而不是厌恶。因为，在犹豫片刻之后，她弯下腰，在他的脸颊上轻轻地吻了一下。小坏蛋以为我没有看见她，便退后一步，回到原来靠窗的位置，十分端庄。我责备地摇摇头，然后她脸红了，小声说：“好吧！我应该怎么做，艾伦？他不会握手，也不会看他：我必须以某种方式向他表明我喜欢他，我想成为朋友。

Whether the kiss convinced Hareton, I cannot tell: he was very careful, for some minutes, that his face should not be seen, and when he did raise it, he was sadly puzzled where to turn his eyes.
我无法判断这个吻是否说服了哈里顿：有几分钟的时间，他非常小心，不让别人看到他的脸，当他抬起脸时，他悲伤地困惑着该把目光转向哪里。

Catherine employed herself in wrapping a handsome book neatly in white paper, and having tied it with a bit of ribbon, and addressed it to ‘Mr. Hareton Earnshaw,’ she desired me to be her ambassadress, and convey the present to its destined recipient.
凯瑟琳忙着用白纸把一本漂亮的书整齐地包起来，并用一条丝带把它系起来，并把它写给“先生”。哈里顿·恩肖，”她希望我成为她的大使，并将礼物转达给预定的收件人。

‘And tell him, if he’ll take it, I’ll come and teach him to read it right,’ she said; ‘and, if he refuse it, I’ll go upstairs, and never tease him again.’
“告诉他，如果他愿意的话，我会来教他正确地阅读它，”她说。 “如果他拒绝，我就上楼，不再取笑他。”

I carried it, and repeated the message; anxiously watched by my employer. Hareton would not open his fingers, so I laid it on his knee. He did not strike it off, either. I returned to my work. Catherine leaned her head and arms on the table, till she heard the slight rustle of the covering being removed; then she stole away, and quietly seated herself beside her cousin. He trembled, and his face glowed: all his rudeness and all his surly harshness had deserted him: he could not summon courage, at first, to utter a syllable in reply to her questioning look, and her murmured petition.
我拿着它，并重复了这条信息；被我的雇主焦急地看着。哈里顿不肯张开他的手指，所以我把它放在他的膝盖上。他也没有把它划掉。我回到工作岗位。凯瑟琳把头和手臂靠在桌子上，直到她听到被子被掀开的轻微沙沙声。然后她偷偷走开，静静地坐在她表弟身边。他浑身颤抖，脸上容光焕发：他所有的粗鲁和乖戾的严厉都离他而去：一开始他无法鼓起勇气，说出一个音节来回答她询问的眼神和她低声的请求。

‘Say you forgive me, Hareton, do. You can make me so happy by speaking that little word.’
“说你原谅我吧，哈里顿，就这么做吧。”你说这句话就能让我很高兴。”

He muttered something inaudible.
他咕哝着什么，听不见。

‘And you’ll be my friend?’ added Catherine, interrogatively.
“那你愿意做我的朋友吗？”凯瑟琳疑惑地补充道。

‘Nay, you’ll be ashamed of me every day of your life,’ he answered; ‘and the more ashamed, the more you know me; and I cannot bide it.’
“不，你一生中的每一天都会为我感到羞耻，”他回答道。 ‘越是羞耻，你就越了解我；我无法忍受。

‘So you won’t be my friend?’ she said, smiling as sweet as honey, and creeping close up.
“所以你不想做我的朋友了？”她说，微笑着像蜂蜜一样甜蜜，并悄悄靠近。

I overheard no further distinguishable talk, but, on looking round again, I perceived two such radiant countenances bent over the page of the accepted book, that I did not doubt the treaty had been ratified on both sides; and the enemies were, thenceforth, sworn allies.
我无意中听到了没有更多明显的谈话，但是，当我再次环顾四周时，我看到有两张如此容光焕发的面孔俯身在接受的书页上，我毫不怀疑该条约已被双方批准；从那时起，敌人就成了宣誓的盟友。

The work they studied was full of costly pictures; and those and their position had charm enough to keep them unmoved till Joseph came home. He, poor man, was perfectly aghast at the spectacle of Catherine seated on the same bench with Hareton Earnshaw, leaning her hand on his shoulder; and confounded at his favourite’s endurance of her proximity: it affected him too deeply to allow an observation on the subject that night. His emotion was only revealed by the immense sighs he drew, as he solemnly spread his large Bible on the table, and overlaid it with dirty bank-notes from his pocket-book, the produce of the day’s transactions. At length he summoned Hareton from his seat.
他们研究的作品充满了昂贵的图片；这些和他们的地位有足够的魅力让他们不为所动，直到约瑟夫回家。他，可怜的人，看到凯瑟琳和哈里顿·恩肖坐在同一张长凳上，把手靠在他的肩膀上，这景象让他惊呆了。并对他最喜欢的人对她的接近的忍耐力感到困惑：这对他影响太深，以至于不允许那天晚上对这个话题进行观察。他的感情只有在他深深的叹息中才显露出来，他庄严地把一本大圣经摊在桌子上，并从他的皮夹里拿出当天交易的肮脏钞票放在上面。最后他把哈里顿从座位上叫了出来。

‘Tak’ these in to t’ maister, lad,’ he said, ‘and bide there. I’s gang up to my own rahm. This hoile’s neither mensful nor seemly for us: we mun side out and seearch another.’
“把这些交给校长，小伙子，”他说，“然后呆在那里。”我正在团结起来。这个洞对我们来说既不美观也不合适：我们必须出去寻找另一个。

‘Come, Catherine,’ I said, ‘we must ‘side out’ too: I’ve done my ironing. Are you ready to go?’
“来吧，凯瑟琳，”我说，“我们也必须‘出去’：我已经熨好了。”你准备好出发了吗？'

‘It is not eight o’clock!’ she answered, rising unwillingly.
“还不到八点！”她回答道，不情愿地站了起来。

‘Hareton, I’ll leave this book upon the chimney-piece, and I’ll bring some more to-morrow.’
“哈里顿，我会把这本书放在壁炉架上，明天我会再带来一些。”

‘Ony books that yah leave, I shall tak’ into th’ hahse,’ said Joseph, ‘and it’ll be mitch if yah find ‘em agean; soa, yah may plase yerseln!’
“你们留下的任何书，我都会带进书柜里，”约瑟夫说，“如果你们能找到它们，那就太好了；”索阿，拜托你了！”

Cathy threatened that his library should pay for hers; and, smiling as she passed Hareton, went singing up-stairs: lighter of heart, I venture to say, than ever she had been under that roof before; except, perhaps, during her earliest visits to Linton.
凯茜威胁说他的图书馆应该为她的图书馆付费。她经过哈里顿时面带微笑，一边唱着歌上楼：我斗胆说，她以前在那个屋檐下比以往任何时候都心情轻松。也许除了她最早访问林惇期间。

The intimacy thus commenced grew rapidly; though it encountered temporary interruptions. Earnshaw was not to be civilized with a wish, and my young lady was no philosopher, and no paragon of patience; but both their minds tending to the same point one loving and desiring to esteem, and the other loving and desiring to be esteemed they contrived in the end to reach it.
亲密关系由此开始迅速增长。尽管它遇到了暂时的中断。恩肖不应该带着愿望而变得文明，而我的小姐也不是哲学家，也不是耐心的典范。但他们的思想都趋向于同一点，一个是爱并渴望被尊重，另一个是爱和渴望被尊重，他们最终都设法达到了这一点。

You see, Mr. Lockwood, it was easy enough to win Mrs. Heathcliff’s heart. But now, I’m glad you did not try. The crown of all my wishes will be the union of those two. I shall envy no one on their wedding day: there won’t be a happier woman than myself in England!
你看，洛克伍德先生，赢得希刺克厉夫夫人的心是很容易的。但现在，我很高兴你没有尝试。我所有的愿望就是这两个人的结合。我不会羡慕任何人的婚礼：在英国没有比我更幸福的女人了！

Chapter XXXIII
第三十三章

ON the morrow of that Monday, Earnshaw being still unable to follow his ordinary employments, and therefore remaining about the house, I speedily found it would be impracticable to retain my charge beside me, as heretofore. She got downstairs before me, and out into the garden, where she had seen her cousin performing some easy work; and when I went to bid them come to breakfast, I saw she had persuaded him to clear a large space of ground from currant and gooseberry bushes, and they were busy planning together an importation of plants from the Grange.
那个星期一的第二天，恩肖仍然无法继续他的日常工作，因此留在了房子里，我很快发现像以前一样把我的职责留在我身边是不切实际的。她比我先下楼，来到花园里，看到她的表弟正在做一些简单的活儿。当我去请他们来吃早餐时，我看到她已经说服他从醋栗和醋栗丛中清理出一大片土地，他们正忙着一起计划从田庄进口植物。

I was terrified at the devastation which had been accomplished in a brief half-hour; the black-currant trees were the apple of Joseph’s eye, and she had just fixed her choice of a flower-bed in the midst of them.
我对这短短的半小时内所造成的破坏感到害怕。黑醋栗树是约瑟夫的掌上明珠，她刚刚在它们中间选定了一个花坛。

‘There! That will be all shown to the master,’ I exclaimed, ‘the minute it is discovered. And what excuse have you to offer for taking such liberties with the garden? We shall have a fine explosion on the head of it: see if we don’t! Mr. Hareton, I wonder you should have no more wit than to go and make that mess at her bidding!’
'那里！ “一旦发现，这一切都会向主人展示，”我大声说道。你有什么借口对花园如此随意呢？我们将在它的头上爆炸：看看我们是否不这样做！哈里顿先生，我想你应该没有比按照她的命令去把事情搞砸的聪明才智吧！

‘I’d forgotten they were Joseph’s,’ answered Earnshaw, rather puzzled; ‘but I’ll tell him I did it.’
“我忘了它们是约瑟夫的，”恩肖回答道，相当困惑。 “但我会告诉他我做到了。”

We always ate our meals with Mr. Heathcliff. I held the mistress’s post in making tea and carving; so I was indispensable at table. Catherine usually sat by me, but to-day she stole nearer to Hareton; and I presently saw she would have no more discretion in her friendship than she had in her hostility.
我们总是和希斯克利夫先生一起吃饭。我担任女主人，泡茶、雕刻；所以餐桌上我是不可或缺的。凯瑟琳通常坐在我旁边，但今天她偷偷靠近哈里顿。我很快就发现，她对友谊的判断力并不比对敌意的判断力大。

‘Now, mind you don’t talk with and notice your cousin too much,’ were my whispered instructions as we entered the room. ‘It will certainly annoy Mr. Heathcliff, and he’ll be mad at you both.’
“现在，请注意，不要过多地与你的表弟交谈，也不要过多地关注你的表弟。”当我们进入房间时，我低声指示道。 “这肯定会惹恼希斯克利夫先生，他会对你们俩生气。”

‘I’m not going to,’ she answered.
“我不会，”她回答道。

The minute after, she had sidled to him, and was sticking primroses in his plate of porridge.
一分钟后，她侧身走到他身边，把报春花插在他的粥盘里。

He dared not speak to her there: he dared hardly look; and yet she went on teasing, till he was twice on the point of being provoked to laugh. I frowned, and then she glanced towards the master: whose mind was occupied on other subjects than his company, as his countenance evinced; and she grew serious for an instant, scrutinizing him with deep gravity. Afterwards she turned, and recommenced her nonsense; at last, Hareton uttered a smothered laugh. Mr. Heathcliff started; his eye rapidly surveyed our faces, Catherine met it with her accustomed look of nervousness and yet defiance, which he abhorred.
他不敢在那里和她说话：他几乎不敢看；他几乎不敢看她。但她还是继续取笑他，直到他有两次差点笑出声来。我皱起眉头，然后她看了一眼主人：正如他的表情所表明的那样，他的注意力集中在其他事情上，而不是他的陪伴；她突然变得严肃起来，严肃地打量着他。随后她转过身来，又开始胡言乱语。最后，哈里顿发出一声压抑的笑声。希刺克厉夫先生吃了一惊。他的眼睛快速地扫视着我们的脸，凯瑟琳以她惯常的紧张和蔑视的表情迎接它，这是他所憎恶的。

‘It is well you are out of my reach,’ he exclaimed. ‘What fiend possesses you to stare back at me, continually, with those infernal eyes? Down with them! and don’t remind me of your existence again. I thought I had cured you of laughing.’
“还好你不在我的范围之内，”他喊道。 ‘什么恶魔让你用那双地狱般的眼睛不断地盯着我？打倒他们！并且不要再让我想起你的存在。我以为我已经治好了你的笑。

‘It was me,’ muttered Hareton.
“是我，”哈里顿嘀咕道。

‘What do you say?’ demanded the master.
“你说什么？”主人问道。

Hareton looked at his plate, and did not repeat the confession. Mr. Heathcliff looked at him a bit, and then silently resumed his breakfast and his interrupted musing. We had nearly finished, and the two young people prudently shifted wider asunder, so I anticipated no further disturbance during that sitting: when Joseph appeared at the door, revealing by his quivering lip and furious eyes that the outrage committed on his precious shrubs was detected. He must have seen Cathy and her cousin about the spot before he examined it, for while his jaws worked like those of a cow chewing its cud, and rendered his speech difficult to understand, he began:-
哈里顿看了看自己的盘子，没有重复刚才的话。希斯克利夫先生看了他一眼，然后默默地继续吃早餐和被打断的沉思。我们快结束了，两个年轻人小心翼翼地分开，所以我预计在那次会议期间不会有进一步的干扰：当约瑟夫出现在门口时，他颤抖的嘴唇和愤怒的眼睛表明，人们发现了对他珍贵的灌木丛犯下的暴行。在他检查之前，他一定已经看到了凯茜和她的表弟，因为虽然他的下巴像牛反刍一样，使他的讲话难以理解，但他开始说道：

‘I mun hev’ my wage, and I mun goa! I HED aimed to dee wheare I’d sarved fur sixty year; and I thowt I’d lug my books up into t’ garret, and all my bits o’ stuff, and they sud hev’ t’ kitchen to theirseln; for t’ sake o’ quietness. It wur hard to gie up my awn hearthstun, but I thowt I COULD do that! But nah, shoo’s taan my garden fro’ me, and by th’ heart, maister, I cannot stand it! Yah may bend to th’ yoak an ye will I noan used to ‘t, and an old man doesn’t sooin get used to new barthens. I’d rayther arn my bite an’ my sup wi’ a hammer in th’ road!’
‘我 mun hev’ 我的工资，我 mun goa！我的目标是我积攒了六十年的毛皮；我想我应该把我的书和我所有的东西都拖进阁楼，然后他们就自己去厨房了；为了安静。结束我的昏昏欲睡很难，但我想我可以做到！但是不，我的花园被抢走了，说实话，老师，我无法忍受！你可能会屈服于那头牛，但我不会习惯它，而一个老人不会很快习惯新的谷仓。我宁愿在路上用锤子来咬我的食物和我的食物！

‘Now, now, idiot!’ interrupted Heathcliff, ‘cut it short! What’s your grievance? I’ll interfere in no quarrels between you and Nelly. She may thrust you into the coal-hole for anything I care.’
“现在，现在，白痴！”希刺克厉夫打断道，“别说了！你有什么委屈？我不会干涉你和耐莉之间的争吵。她可能会因为我关心的任何事情而把你扔进煤坑里。

‘It’s noan Nelly!’ answered Joseph. ‘I sudn’t shift for Nelly nasty ill nowt as shoo is. Thank God! SHOO cannot stale t’ sowl o’ nob’dy! Shoo wer niver soa handsome, but what a body mud look at her ‘bout winking. It’s yon flaysome, graceless quean, that’s witched our lad, wi’ her bold een and her forrard ways till Nay! it fair brusts my heart! He’s forgotten all I’ve done for him, and made on him, and goan and riven up a whole row o’ t’ grandest currant-trees i’ t’ garden!’ and here he lamented outright; unmanned by a sense of his bitter injuries, and Earnshaw’s ingratitude and dangerous condition.
“我是诺安·耐莉！”约瑟夫回答道。 “我不会像现在这样讨厌内莉。”感谢上帝！ SHOO 不能让任何人都感到厌烦！苏阿尼弗太帅了，但看她眨眼的样子，身体真是泥巴啊。正是那个轻浮、粗鲁的奎恩，用她大胆的想法和她的前进方式迷住了我们的小伙子，直到不！这真让我心碎！他忘记了我为他所做的一切，还对他进行了攻击，把花园里一整排最宏伟的醋栗树撕成碎片！”在这里，他直率地哀叹道；他对自己所受的痛苦、恩肖的忘恩负义和危险的处境感到茫然。

‘Is the fool drunk?’ asked Mr. Heathcliff. ‘Hareton, is it you he’s finding fault with?’
“这个傻瓜喝醉了吗？”希刺克厉夫先生问道。 “哈里顿，他是在挑剔你吗？”

‘I’ve pulled up two or three bushes,’ replied the young man; ‘but I’m going to set ‘em again.’
“我拔了两三棵灌木，”年轻人回答道。 “但我要再次设置它们。”

‘And why have you pulled them up?’ said the master.
“那你为什么把它们拉上来呢？”主人问道。

Catherine wisely put in her tongue.
凯瑟琳明智地把话说了出来。

‘We wanted to plant some flowers there,’ she cried. ‘I’m the only person to blame, for I wished him to do it.’
“我们想在那里种一些花，”她哭道。 “我是唯一应该受到责备的人，因为我希望他这么做。”

‘And who the devil gave YOU leave to touch a stick about the place?’ demanded her father-in-law, much surprised. ‘And who ordered YOU to obey her?’ he added, turning to Hareton.
“到底是谁允许你在这个地方碰棍子的？”她的公公非常惊讶地问道。 “谁命令你服从她？”他转向哈里顿补充道。

The latter was speechless; his cousin replied ‘You shouldn’t grudge a few yards of earth for me to ornament, when you have taken all my land!’
后者无言以对；他的表弟回答说：“既然你已经占领了我所有的土地，你就不应该吝惜几码土给我装饰！”

‘Your land, insolent slut! You never had any,’ said Heathcliff.
‘你的土地，无礼的荡妇！你从来没有拥有过，”希刺克厉夫说。

‘And my money,’ she continued; returning his angry glare, and meantime biting a piece of crust, the remnant of her breakfast.
“还有我的钱，”她继续说道。他愤怒地瞪了他一眼，同时咬了一块面包皮，那是她早餐剩下的。

‘Silence!’ he exclaimed. ‘Get done, and begone!’
“安静！”他喊道。 “做完，走吧！”

‘And Hareton’s land, and his money,’ pursued the reckless thing. ‘Hareton and I are friends now; and I shall tell him all about you!’
“还有哈里顿的土地和金钱，”这个鲁莽的家伙继续说道。 “哈里顿和我现在是朋友了；我会把你的一切都告诉他！

The master seemed confounded a moment: he grew pale, and rose up, eyeing her all the while, with an expression of mortal hate.
大师似乎一时不知所措，脸色变得苍白，站起身来，一直盯着她，一脸恨铁不成钢的表情。

‘If you strike me, Hareton will strike you,’ she said; ‘so you may as well sit down.’
“如果你打我，哈里顿就会打你，”她说。 “所以你不妨坐下来。”

‘If Hareton does not turn you out of the room, I’ll strike him to hell,’ thundered Heathcliff. ‘Damnable witch! dare you pretend to rouse him against me? Off with her! Do you hear? Fling her into the kitchen! I’ll kill her, Ellen Dean, if you let her come into my sight again!’
“如果哈里顿不把你赶出房间，我就把他打到地狱去。”希刺克厉夫怒吼道。 ‘可恶的女巫！你敢假装激怒他反对我吗？跟她走开！你听到了吗？把她扔进厨房！如果你再让她进入我的视线，我会杀了她，艾伦·迪恩！

Hareton tried, under his breath, to persuade her to go.
哈里顿低声试图劝她走。

‘Drag her away!’ he cried, savagely. ‘Are you staying to talk?’ And he approached to execute his own command.
“把她拖走！”他野蛮地喊道。 “你留下来说话吗？”他走近去执行自己的命令。

‘He’ll not obey you, wicked man, any more,’ said Catherine; ‘and he’ll soon detest you as much as I do.’
“他不会再听你的了，邪恶的人，”凯瑟琳说。 “他很快就会像我一样讨厌你。”

‘Wisht! wisht!’ muttered the young man, reproachfully; ‘I will not hear you speak so to him. Have done.’
‘愿望！ “希望！”年轻人责备地嘀咕道。 “我不会听你这样对他说话。完成了。'

‘But you won’t let him strike me?’ she cried.
“但是你不让他打我吗？”她喊道。

‘Come, then,’ he whispered earnestly.
“那么，来吧，”他认真地低声说道。

It was too late: Heathcliff had caught hold of her.
为时已晚：希刺克厉夫已经抓住了她。

‘Now, YOU go!’ he said to Earnshaw. ‘Accursed witch! this time she has provoked me when I could not bear it; and I’ll make her repent it for ever!’
“现在，你走吧！”他对恩肖说。 ‘该死的女巫！这次她在我无法忍受的情况下挑衅了我；我会让她永远悔改！

He had his hand in her hair; Hareton attempted to release her looks, entreating him not to hurt her that once. Heathcliff’s black eyes flashed; he seemed ready to tear Catherine in pieces, and I was just worked up to risk coming to the rescue, when of a sudden his fingers relaxed; he shifted his grasp from her head to her arm, and gazed intently in her face. Then he drew his hand over his eyes, stood a moment to collect himself apparently, and turning anew to Catherine, said, with assumed calmness ‘You must learn to avoid putting me in a passion, or I shall really murder you some time! Go with Mrs. Dean, and keep with her; and confine your insolence to her ears. As to Hareton Earnshaw, if I see him listen to you, I’ll send him seeking his bread where he can get it! Your love will make him an outcast and a beggar. Nelly, take her; and leave me, all of you! Leave me!’
他把手伸进她的头发里；哈里顿试图释放她的表情，恳求他不要伤害她那一次。希刺克厉夫的黑眸闪烁着光芒；他似乎准备把凯瑟琳撕成碎片，我正兴奋地冒着危险去营救，突然他的手指放松了；他把握住她的头，转移到她的手臂上，专注地凝视着她的脸。然后他用手捂住眼睛，站了一会儿，显然镇定下来，然后重新转向凯瑟琳，假装平静地说：“你必须学会​​避免让我陷入激情，否则我有时真的会杀了你！”和迪恩太太一起去，和她在一起；并把你的傲慢限制在她的耳朵里。至于哈里顿·恩肖，如果我看到他听你的话，我就会派他去哪里找面包！你的爱将使他成为流浪者和乞丐。耐莉，带她走吧；你们所有人都离开我吧！离开我！

I led my young lady out: she was too glad of her escape to resist; the other followed, and Mr. Heathcliff had the room to himself till dinner. I had counselled Catherine to dine up-stairs; but, as soon as he perceived her vacant seat, he sent me to call her. He spoke to none of us, ate very little, and went out directly afterwards, intimating that he should not return before evening.
我领着我的小姐出去了：她因为逃脱而高兴极了，无法反抗。另一个人紧随其后，希斯克利夫先生独自一人呆在房间里直到晚餐。我建议凯瑟琳去楼上吃晚饭。但是，当他发现她的座位空着时，他就派我去给她打电话。他没有和我们任何人说话，吃得很少，然后就直接出去了，暗示他晚上之前不要回来。

The two new friends established themselves in the house during his absence; where I heard Hareton sternly cheek his cousin, on her offering a revelation of her father-in-law’s conduct to his father. He said he wouldn’t suffer a word to be uttered in his disparagement: if he were the devil, it didn’t signify; he would stand by him; and he’d rather she would abuse himself, as she used to, than begin on Mr. Heathcliff. Catherine was waxing cross at this; but he found means to make her hold her tongue, by asking how she would like HIM to speak ill of her father? Then she comprehended that Earnshaw took the master’s reputation home to himself; and was attached by ties stronger than reason could break chains, forged by habit, which it would be cruel to attempt to loosen. She showed a good heart, thenceforth, in avoiding both complaints and expressions of antipathy concerning Heathcliff; and confessed to me her sorrow that she had endeavoured to raise a bad spirit between him and Hareton: indeed, I don’t believe she has ever breathed a syllable, in the latter’s hearing, against her oppressor since.
他不在期间，这两个新朋友就在家里安顿下来。我听到哈里顿严厉地斥责他的表弟，要求她向他的父亲揭露她岳父的行为。他说他不会接受任何人对他的贬低：如果他是魔鬼，那也没有什么意义；如果他是魔鬼，那也没有什么意义。他会站在他一边；他宁愿她像以前那样虐待自己，也不愿对希刺克厉夫先生下手。凯瑟琳对此非常生气。但他找到了让她闭嘴的方法，问她希望他如何说她父亲的坏话？然后她明白了，恩肖把主人的名誉据为己有。束缚是由比理性更强大的束缚所束缚的，这些束缚是由习惯铸造的，试图松开它是残酷的。从那时起，她表现出了一颗善良的心，避免对希斯克利夫提出抱怨和反感。并向我承认了她的悲伤，因为她试图在他和哈里顿之间煽动不良情绪：事实上，我不相信从那以后，她在哈里顿的耳中没有说过任何反对她的压迫者的话。

When this slight disagreement was over, they were friends again, and as busy as possible in their several occupations of pupil and teacher. I came in to sit with them, after I had done my work; and I felt so soothed and comforted to watch them, that I did not notice how time got on. You know, they both appeared in a measure my children: I had long been proud of one; and now, I was sure, the other would be a source of equal satisfaction. His honest, warm, and intelligent nature shook off rapidly the clouds of ignorance and degradation in which it had been bred; and Catherine’s sincere commendations acted as a spur to his industry. His brightening mind brightened his features, and added spirit and nobility to their aspect: I could hardly fancy it the same individual I had beheld on the day I discovered my little lady at Wuthering Heights, after her expedition to the Crags. While I admired and they laboured, dusk drew on, and with it returned the master. He came upon us quite unexpectedly, entering by the front way, and had a full view of the whole three, ere we could raise our heads to glance at him. Well, I reflected, there was never a pleasanter, or more harmless sight; and it will be a burning shame to scold them. The red fire-light glowed on their two bonny heads, and revealed their faces animated with the eager interest of children; for, though he was twenty-three and she eighteen, each had so much of novelty to feel and learn, that neither experienced nor evinced the sentiments of sober disenchanted maturity.
当这种轻微的分歧结束后，他们又成为了朋友，并尽可能地忙碌于学生和老师的多种职业中。完成工作后，我进来和他们坐在一起。看着他们，我感到如此平静和安慰，以至于我没有注意到时间是如何流逝的。你知道，他们在某种程度上都是我的孩子：我长期以来一直为其中一个感到自豪；现在，我确信，另一个人也会带来同样的满足感。他诚实、热情、聪明的天性很快就摆脱了孕育他的无知和堕落的阴云。凯瑟琳的真诚赞扬刺激了他的勤奋。他明亮的头脑使他的容貌更加明亮，为他们的外表增添了精神和高贵：我几乎无法想象他是我在呼啸山庄探险完峭壁之后发现我的小女士那天看到的那个人。当我欣赏着他们劳作时，黄昏来临了，大师也随之回来了。他出人意料地从前面的通道进来，我们还没来得及抬头看他，他就已经看到了三个人的全貌。嗯，我想，从来没有比这更令人愉快、更无害的景象了；责骂他们将是一种极大的耻辱。红色的火光在他们两个漂亮的头上闪闪发光，露出了他们的脸，脸上充满了孩子般的热切兴趣。因为，虽然他二十三岁，她十八岁，但每个人都有那么多新奇的东西需要感受和学习，既没有经历也没有表现出清醒、失望的成熟情绪。

They lifted their eyes together, to encounter Mr. Heathcliff: perhaps you have never remarked that their eyes are precisely similar, and they are those of Catherine Earnshaw. The present Catherine has no other likeness to her, except a breadth of forehead, and a certain arch of the nostril that makes her appear rather haughty, whether she will or not. With Hareton the resemblance is carried farther: it is singular at all times, THEN it was particularly striking; because his senses were alert, and his mental faculties wakened to unwonted activity. I suppose this resemblance disarmed Mr. Heathcliff: he walked to the hearth in evident agitation; but it quickly subsided as he looked at the young man: or, I should say, altered its character; for it was there yet. He took the book from his hand, and glanced at the open page, then returned it without any observation; merely signing Catherine away: her companion lingered very little behind her, and I was about to depart also, but he bid me sit still.
他们一起抬起眼睛，与希刺克厉夫先生相遇：也许你从来没有说过，他们的眼睛一模一样，而他们就是凯瑟琳·恩肖的眼睛。现在的凯瑟琳与她没有任何相似之处，除了宽阔的额头和一定的鼻孔，无论她是否愿意，这使她显得相当傲慢。哈里顿的相似之处更进一步：它在任何时候都是独一无二的，然后它就特别引人注目；它在任何时候都是独特的。因为他的感官很警觉，他的心智也因不寻常的活动而苏醒。我想这种相似性让希刺克厉夫先生放下了戒备：他走向壁炉，显然很激动；但当他看着这个年轻人时，这种情绪很快就平息了：或者，我应该说，改变了它的性格。因为它还在那里。他从手中接过书，看了一眼打开的那页，然后没有任何观察地把书放了回去；只是示意凯瑟琳离开：她的同伴在她身后逗留得很少，我也正要离开，但他叫我别动。

‘It is a poor conclusion, is it not?’ he observed, having brooded awhile on the scene he had just witnessed: ‘an absurd termination to my violent exertions? I get levers and mattocks to demolish the two houses, and train myself to be capable of working like Hercules, and when everything is ready and in my power, I find the will to lift a slate off either roof has vanished! My old enemies have not beaten me; now would be the precise time to revenge myself on their representatives: I could do it; and none could hinder me. But where is the use? I don’t care for striking: I can’t take the trouble to raise my hand! That sounds as if I had been labouring the whole time only to exhibit a fine trait of magnanimity. It is far from being the case: I have lost the faculty of enjoying their destruction, and I am too idle to destroy for nothing.
“这是一个糟糕的结论，不是吗？”他在刚刚目睹的场景中沉思了一会儿后说道：“我的暴力努力的荒谬终止？我拿了杠杆和鹤嘴锄来拆掉这两座房子，并训练自己有能力像大力士一样工作，当一切准备就绪并且在我的力量范围内时，我发现从任何一个屋顶上抬起一块石板的意愿都消失了！我的宿敌没有打败我；现在正是我向他们的代表报仇的时候了：我能做到；我能做到；我能做到。没有人能阻止我。但有什么用呢？我不喜欢罢工：我懒得举手！听起来好像我一直在努力，只是为了表现出一种宽宏大量的优良品质。事实远非如此：我已经失去了享受他们毁灭的能力，而且我太闲了，不会无缘无故地毁灭。

‘Nelly, there is a strange change approaching; I’m in its shadow at present. I take so little interest in my daily life that I hardly remember to eat and drink. Those two who have left the room are the only objects which retain a distinct material appearance to me; and that appearance causes me pain, amounting to agony. About HER I won’t speak; and I don’t desire to think; but I earnestly wish she were invisible: her presence invokes only maddening sensations. HE moves me differently: and yet if I could do it without seeming insane, I’d never see him again! You’ll perhaps think me rather inclined to become so,’ he added, making an effort to smile, ‘if I try to describe the thousand forms of past associations and ideas he awakens or embodies. But you’ll not talk of what I tell you; and my mind is so eternally secluded in itself, it is tempting at last to turn it out to another.
“耐莉，有一种奇怪的变化即将来临；我现在正处于它的阴影之中。我对日常生活毫无兴趣，几乎不记得吃喝。对我来说，离开房间的那两个物体是唯一保留着明显物质外观的物体；它们是唯一的物体。那种外表让我感到痛苦，甚至是痛苦。关于她我不会说；我不想思考；但我真心希望她是隐形的：她的存在只会引起令人发狂的感觉。他以不同的方式感动了我：但如果我能做到这一点而不显得疯狂，我就再也见不到他了！你也许会认为我很倾向于这样做，”他努力微笑着补充道，“如果我试图描述他唤醒或体现的数千种过去的联想和想法。但你不会谈论我告诉你的事情；我的思想永远与世隔绝，最终很想把它转向另一个人。

‘Five minutes ago Hareton seemed a personification of my youth, not a human being; I felt to him in such a variety of ways, that it would have been impossible to have accosted him rationally. In the first place, his startling likeness to Catherine connected him fearfully with her. That, however, which you may suppose the most potent to arrest my imagination, is actually the least: for what is not connected with her to me? and what does not recall her? I cannot look down to this floor, but her features are shaped in the flags! In every cloud, in every tree filling the air at night, and caught by glimpses in every object by day I am surrounded with her image! The most ordinary faces of men and women my own features mock me with a resemblance. The entire world is a dreadful collection of memoranda that she did exist, and that I have lost her! Well, Hareton’s aspect was the ghost of my immortal love; of my wild endeavours to hold my right; my degradation, my pride, my happiness, and my anguish -
“五分钟前，哈里顿似乎是我青春的化身，而不是一个人；我从很多方面对他感到，不可能理性地和他搭话。首先，他与凯瑟琳惊人的相似，使他和凯瑟琳产生了可怕的联系。然而，你可能认为最能阻止我的想象力的，实际上是最不重要的：因为什么与她和我无关？还有什么不记得她了？我无法俯视这层楼，但她的面容已在旗帜上成形了！在夜晚弥漫在空气中的每一朵云朵、每一棵树上，以及白天瞥见的每一个物体上，我都被她的形象所包围！那些最普通的男人和女人的面孔与我自己的相貌相似，都在嘲笑我。整个世界是一个可怕的备忘录集合，她确实存在，而我已经失去了她！好吧，哈里顿的容貌是我不朽爱情的幽灵。我为维护自己的权利而做出的疯狂努力；我的堕落，我的骄傲，我的幸福，我的痛苦——

‘But it is frenzy to repeat these thoughts to you: only it will let you know why, with a reluctance to be always alone, his society is no benefit; rather an aggravation of the constant torment I suffer: and it partly contributes to render me regardless how he and his cousin go on together. I can give them no attention any more.’
“但向你重复这些想法是疯狂的：只有它会让你知道，为什么不愿意总是孤独，他的社会没有任何好处；相反，这是我不断遭受的折磨的加剧：这在一定程度上使我无论他和他的表弟如何相处在一起。我不能再关注他们了。

‘But what do you mean by a CHANGE, Mr. Heathcliff?’ I said, alarmed at his manner: though he was neither in danger of losing his senses, nor dying, according to my judgment: he was quite strong and healthy; and, as to his reason, from childhood he had a delight in dwelling on dark things, and entertaining odd fancies. He might have had a monomania on the subject of his departed idol; but on every other point his wits were as sound as mine.
“但是你所说的改变是什么意思，希刺克厉夫先生？”我对他的态度感到震惊，说道：尽管根据我的判断，他既没有失去理智的危险，也没有死亡的危险：他非常强壮和健康；他的身体状况良好。至于他的理智，他从小就喜欢思考黑暗的事物，并怀有奇怪的幻想。他可能对他已故的偶像有一种偏执。但在其他方面，他的智慧和我一样健全。

‘I shall not know that till it comes,’ he said; ‘I’m only half conscious of it now.’
“在它到来之前我不会知道这一点，”他说。 “我现在才意识到这一点。”

‘You have no feeling of illness, have you?’ I asked.
“你没有生病的感觉，是吗？”我问。

‘No, Nelly, I have not,’ he answered.
“不，耐莉，我没有，”他回答道。

‘Then you are not afraid of death?’ I pursued.
“那你就不怕死吗？”我追问。

‘Afraid? No!’ he replied. ‘I have neither a fear, nor a presentiment, nor a hope of death. Why should I? With my hard constitution and temperate mode of living, and unperilous occupations, I ought to, and probably SHALL, remain above ground till there is scarcely a black hair on my head. And yet I cannot continue in this condition! I have to remind myself to breathe almost to remind my heart to beat! And it is like bending back a stiff spring: it is by compulsion that I do the slightest act not prompted by one thought; and by compulsion that I notice anything alive or dead, which is not associated with one universal idea. I have a single wish, and my whole being and faculties are yearning to attain it. They have yearned towards it so long, and so unwaveringly, that I’m convinced it will be reached and soon because it has devoured my existence: I am swallowed up in the anticipation of its fulfilment. My confessions have not relieved me; but they may account for some otherwise unaccountable phases of humour which I show. O God! It is a long fight; I wish it were over!’
'害怕的？不！”他回答道。 “我对死亡没有恐惧，没有预感，也没有希望。我为什么要？以我坚硬的体质和温和的生活方式，以及不危险的职业，我应该，也许应该，留在地面上，直到我头上几乎没有一根黑头发。但我不能再这样下去了！我必须提醒自己呼吸，几乎要提醒我的心脏跳动！这就像向后弯曲一根僵硬的弹簧：我是出于强迫而做出最轻微的行为，而不是由一个想法引起的；我强迫自己注意到任何活着的或死了的东西，这些东西与一个普遍的观念无关。我有一个愿望，我的整个生命和才能都渴望实现它。他们对它的渴望如此之久，如此坚定不移，我相信它很快就会实现，因为它吞噬了我的存在：我沉浸在对其实现的期待中。我的忏悔并没有让我松一口气；但它们可能解释了我所展示的一些原本无法解释的幽默阶段。哦天啊！这是一场持久战；我希望一切都结束了！

He began to pace the room, muttering terrible things to himself, till I was inclined to believe, as he said Joseph did, that conscience had turned his heart to an earthly hell. I wondered greatly how it would end. Though he seldom before had revealed this state of mind, even by looks, it was his habitual mood, I had no doubt: he asserted it himself; but not a soul, from his general bearing, would have conjectured the fact. You did not when you saw him, Mr. Lockwood: and at the period of which I speak, he was just the same as then; only fonder of continued solitude, and perhaps still more laconic in company.
他开始在房间里踱步，自言自语着可怕的事情，直到我倾向于相信，正如他所说的约瑟夫所做的那样，良心已经把他的心变成了人间地狱。我非常想知道它会如何结束。虽然他以前很少表现出这种心态，即使是从外表上看，那也是他的习惯性心情，但我毫不怀疑：他自己断言了；他自己也断言了；他自己也断言了。但从他的总体举止来看，没有人会推测出这个事实。洛克伍德先生，当你看到他的时候，你并没有意识到：在我所说的那个时期，他和那时没什么两样。只是更喜欢持续的独处，也许在陪伴下更加简洁。

Chapter XXXIV
第三十四章

FOR some days after that evening Mr. Heathcliff shunned meeting us at meals; yet he would not consent formally to exclude Hareton and Cathy. He had an aversion to yielding so completely to his feelings, choosing rather to absent himself; and eating once in twenty-four hours seemed sufficient sustenance for him.
那天晚上之后的好几天里，希刺克厉夫先生都避免在吃饭时与我们见面。但他不会正式同意排除哈里顿和凯茜。他不愿意完全屈服于自己的感情，而是选择缺席。二十四小时吃一次似乎对他来说已经足够了。

One night, after the family were in bed, I heard him go downstairs, and out at the front door. I did not hear him re-enter, and in the morning I found he was still away. We were in April then: the weather was sweet and warm, the grass as green as showers and sun could make it, and the two dwarf apple-trees near the southern wall in full bloom. After breakfast, Catherine insisted on my bringing a chair and sitting with my work under the fir-trees at the end of the house; and she beguiled Hareton, who had perfectly recovered from his accident, to dig and arrange her little garden, which was shifted to that corner by the influence of Joseph’s complaints. I was comfortably revelling in the spring fragrance around, and the beautiful soft blue overhead, when my young lady, who had run down near the gate to procure some primrose roots for a border, returned only half laden, and informed us that Mr. Heathcliff was coming in. ‘And he spoke to me,’ she added, with a perplexed countenance.
一天晚上，一家人都上床睡觉后，我听到他下楼，从前门出去。我没有听到他再进来，第二天早上我发现他仍然不在。那时我们正值四月：天气甜美而温暖，草地在阵雨和阳光的照耀下绿油油的，南墙附近的两棵矮苹果树盛开着花。早餐后，凯瑟琳坚持要我带一把椅子，坐在房子尽头的枞树下处理我的工作。她哄骗已经从事故中恢复过来的哈里顿挖掘并整理了她的小花园，由于约瑟夫抱怨的影响，花园被移到了那个角落。我正舒舒服服地陶醉在周围春天的芬芳和头顶上美丽的柔和的蓝色中，这时我的小姐跑到门口附近去采一些报春花根做边框，只带了一半的东西回来，并告诉我们希刺克厉夫先生“他跟我说话了，”她补充道，一脸困惑。

‘What did he say?’ asked Hareton.
“他说什么？”哈里顿问。

‘He told me to begone as fast as I could,’ she answered. ‘But he looked so different from his usual look that I stopped a moment to stare at him.’
“他让我尽快离开，”她回答道。 “但他看起来与平常的样子很不一样，我停下来盯着他看了一会儿。”

‘How?’ he inquired.
“怎么办？”他问道。

‘Why, almost bright and cheerful. No, ALMOST nothing VERY MUCH excited, and wild, and glad!’ she replied.
‘哎呀，几乎是明亮而快乐的。不，几乎没有什么非常兴奋、狂野和高兴的事情！”她回答道。

‘Night-walking amuses him, then,’ I remarked, affecting a careless manner: in reality as surprised as she was, and anxious to ascertain the truth of her statement; for to see the master looking glad would not be an every-day spectacle. I framed an excuse to go in. Heathcliff stood at the open door; he was pale, and he trembled: yet, certainly, he had a strange joyful glitter in his eyes, that altered the aspect of his whole face.
“这么说来，夜行让他很开心。”我装出一副漫不经心的样子说道：事实上，她很惊讶，急于查明她的话的真实性；但事实上，她很惊讶，也很想确定她的话的真实性。因为看到主人高兴的样子并不是每天都能看到的景象。我找了个借口进去。希刺克厉夫站在敞开的门边。他脸色苍白，浑身发抖；然而，可以肯定的是，他的眼睛里闪烁着一种奇怪的喜悦的光芒，这改变了他整张脸的面貌。

‘Will you have some breakfast?’ I said. ‘You must be hungry, rambling about all night!’ I wanted to discover where he had been, but I did not like to ask directly.
“你要吃早餐吗？”我说。 “你逛了一夜一定饿了！”我想知道他去了哪里，但又不想直接问。

‘No, I’m not hungry,’ he answered, averting his head, and speaking rather contemptuously, as if he guessed I was trying to divine the occasion of his good humour.
“不，我不饿，”他回答道，转过头，语气颇为轻蔑，仿佛他猜到我是在猜测他的好脾气是在什么场合。

I felt perplexed: I didn’t know whether it were not a proper opportunity to offer a bit of admonition.
我心里很纳闷，不知道现在是不是一个劝诫的好机会。

‘I don’t think it right to wander out of doors,’ I observed, ‘instead of being in bed: it is not wise, at any rate this moist season. I daresay you’ll catch a bad cold or a fever: you have something the matter with you now!’
“我认为走出门去闲逛是不对的，”我说，“而不是躺在床上：至少在这个潮湿的季节，这并不明智。”我敢说你会得重感冒或发烧：你现在有问题了！

‘Nothing but what I can bear,’ he replied; ‘and with the greatest pleasure, provided you’ll leave me alone: get in, and don’t annoy me.’
“除了我能忍受的，什么也没有。”他回答道。 “我非常高兴，只要你不打扰我：进去吧，别惹恼我。”

I obeyed: and, in passing, I noticed he breathed as fast as a cat.
我服从了：顺便，我注意到他呼吸得像猫一样快。

‘Yes!’ I reflected to myself, ‘we shall have a fit of illness. I cannot conceive what he has been doing.’
“是的！”我心里想，“我们会生病的。”我无法想象他在做什么。

That noon he sat down to dinner with us, and received a heaped-up plate from my hands, as if he intended to make amends for previous fasting.
那天中午，他坐下来和我们一起吃晚饭，并从我手中接过一个堆满的盘子，似乎是想弥补之前的禁食。

‘I’ve neither cold nor fever, Nelly,’ he remarked, in allusion to my morning’s speech; ‘and I’m ready to do justice to the food you give me.’
“耐莉，我既不感冒也不发烧，”他指的是我早上的演讲。 “我准备好公正地对待你给我的食物。”

He took his knife and fork, and was going to commence eating, when the inclination appeared to become suddenly extinct. He laid them on the table, looked eagerly towards the window, then rose and went out. We saw him walking to and fro in the garden while we concluded our meal, and Earnshaw said he’d go and ask why he would not dine: he thought we had grieved him some way.
他拿起刀叉，正要开始吃东西，突然他的兴趣似乎消失了。他把它们放在桌子上，急切地看向窗户，然后起身走了出去。当我们吃完饭时，我们看到他在花园里来回走动，恩肖说他会去问他为什么不吃饭：他认为我们在某种程度上让他伤心了。

‘Well, is he coming?’ cried Catherine, when her cousin returned.
“那么，他会来吗？”当她的表弟回来时，凯瑟琳喊道。

‘Nay,’ he answered; ‘but he’s not angry: he seemed rarely pleased indeed; only I made him impatient by speaking to him twice; and then he bid me be off to you: he wondered how I could want the company of anybody else.’
“不，”他回答道。 “但他并不生气：他看起来确实很少感到高兴；只是我跟他说了两次，让他不耐烦了。然后他让我去找你：他想知道我怎么可能想要其他人的陪伴。

I set his plate to keep warm on the fender; and after an hour or two he re-entered, when the room was clear, in no degree calmer: the same unnatural it was unnatural appearance of joy under his black brows; the same bloodless hue, and his teeth visible, now and then, in a kind of smile; his frame shivering, not as one shivers with chill or weakness, but as a tight-stretched cord vibrates a strong thrilling, rather than trembling.
我把他的盘子放在挡泥板上取暖。一两个小时后，他又进来了，房间里变得干净了，丝毫没有平静下来：同样不自然的是，他的黑眉毛下露出了不自然的喜悦；同样的毫无血色的色调，他的牙齿时不时地露出来，带着一种微笑；他的身体在颤抖，不是因为寒冷或虚弱而颤抖，而是因为一根紧绷的绳子在颤抖，一种强烈的颤抖，而不是颤抖。

I will ask what is the matter, I thought; or who should? And I exclaimed ‘Have you heard any good news, Mr. Heathcliff? You look uncommonly animated.’
我想，我会问问发生了什么事；或者谁应该？我惊呼道：‘希刺克厉夫先生，你听到什么好消息了吗？你看起来异常活跃。

‘Where should good news come from to me?’ he said. ‘I’m animated with hunger; and, seemingly, I must not eat.’
“我应该从哪里得到好消息呢？”他说。 “我因饥饿而充满活力；而且，看来我不能吃东西。

‘Your dinner is here,’ I returned; ‘why won’t you get it?’
“你的晚餐来了，”我回答道。 “你为什么不明白？”

‘I don’t want it now,’ he muttered, hastily: ‘I’ll wait till supper. And, Nelly, once for all, let me beg you to warn Hareton and the other away from me. I wish to be troubled by nobody: I wish to have this place to myself.’
“我现在不想要，”他急忙嘟哝道，“我要等到晚饭。”而且，耐莉，我恳求你警告哈里顿和其他人离我远点。我希望不被任何人打扰：我希望拥有这个地方。

‘Is there some new reason for this banishment?’ I inquired. ‘Tell me why you are so queer, Mr. Heathcliff? Where were you last night? I’m not putting the question through idle curiosity, but ‘
“这次驱逐有什么新的理由吗？”我问道。 “告诉我你为什么这么奇怪，希刺克厉夫先生？”你昨晚在哪里？我并不是出于无聊的好奇心提出这个问题，而是‘

‘You are putting the question through very idle curiosity,’ he interrupted, with a laugh. ‘Yet I’ll answer it. Last night I was on the threshold of hell. To-day, I am within sight of my heaven. I have my eyes on it: hardly three feet to sever me! And now you’d better go! You’ll neither see nor hear anything to frighten you, if you refrain from prying.’
“你是出于非常无聊的好奇心才提出这个问题的，”他笑着打断道。 '但我还是会回答。昨晚我正站在地狱的门槛上。今天，我已经可以看到我的天堂了。我的眼睛盯着它：不到三英尺就能切断我！现在你最好走吧！如果你不去窥探，你就不会看到或听到任何让你害怕的东西。

Having swept the hearth and wiped the table, I departed; more perplexed than ever.
扫完炉灶、擦干净桌子后，我就离开了。比以往更加困惑。

He did not quit the house again that afternoon, and no one intruded on his solitude; till, at eight o’clock, I deemed it proper, though unsummoned, to carry a candle and his supper to him. He was leaning against the ledge of an open lattice, but not looking out: his face was turned to the interior gloom. The fire had smouldered to ashes; the room was filled with the damp, mild air of the cloudy evening; and so still, that not only the murmur of the beck down Gimmerton was distinguishable, but its ripples and its gurgling over the pebbles, or through the large stones which it could not cover. I uttered an ejaculation of discontent at seeing the dismal grate, and commenced shutting the casements, one after another, till I came to his.
那天下午他没有再出门，也没有人打扰他的孤独。直到八点钟，我认为尽管没有被召唤，但还是应该给他端上蜡烛和晚餐。他靠在一个敞开的格子的窗台上，但没有向外看：他的脸转向了室内的阴暗。火已经闷烧成了灰烬。房间里充满了多云的夜晚潮湿而温和的空气。如此静谧，不仅可以辨认出吉默顿河水的潺潺声，还可以辨认出它的涟漪和潺潺流过鹅卵石的声音，或者穿过它无法覆盖的大石头的声音。看到那阴暗的炉栅，我发出一声不满的声音，然后开始关上窗子，一扇又一扇，直到我来到他的窗前。

‘Must I close this?’ I asked, in order to rouse him; for he would not stir.
“我必须关掉这个吗？”我问道，为了唤醒他。因为他一动也不动。

The light flashed on his features as I spoke. Oh, Mr. Lockwood, I cannot express what a terrible start I got by the momentary view! Those deep black eyes! That smile, and ghastly paleness! It appeared to me, not Mr. Heathcliff, but a goblin; and, in my terror, I let the candle bend towards the wall, and it left me in darkness.
当我说话时，他的脸上闪过光芒。哦，洛克伍德先生，我无法表达我看到的那一刹那的景象是多么可怕！那双深邃的黑眼睛！那笑容，还有那可怕的苍白！在我看来，那不是希刺克厉夫先生，而是一个妖精。在恐惧中，我让蜡烛向墙壁弯曲，结果我陷入了黑暗之中。

‘Yes, close it,’ he replied, in his familiar voice. ‘There, that is pure awkwardness! Why did you hold the candle horizontally? Be quick, and bring another.’
“是的，关上它，”他用熟悉的声音回答。 ‘那，这纯粹是尴尬！你为什么横着拿着蜡烛？快点，再带一个来。

I hurried out in a foolish state of dread, and said to Joseph ‘The master wishes you to take him a light and rekindle the fire.’ For I dared not go in myself again just then.
我在一种愚蠢的恐惧中赶紧跑出去，对约瑟夫说：“主人希望你给他拿点火，重新点燃火。”因为我当时不敢再进去了。

Joseph rattled some fire into the shovel, and went: but he brought it back immediately, with the supper-tray in his other hand, explaining that Mr. Heathcliff was going to bed, and he wanted nothing to eat till morning. We heard him mount the stairs directly; he did not proceed to his ordinary chamber, but turned into that with the panelled bed: its window, as I mentioned before, is wide enough for anybody to get through; and it struck me that he plotted another midnight excursion, of which he had rather we had no suspicion.
约瑟夫在铲子里发出了一些火，然后走了：但他立即把铲子拿了回来，另一只手拿着晚餐托盘，解释说希刺克厉夫先生要睡觉了，他不想吃东西直到早上。我们听见他径直走上楼梯。他没有走进自己平常的房间，而是走进了那间有镶板床的房间：正如我之前提到的，它的窗户足够宽，任何人都可以通过。让我吃惊的是，他又策划了一次午夜旅行，而他宁愿我们对此没有怀疑。

‘Is he a ghoul or a vampire?’ I mused. I had read of such hideous incarnate demons. And then I set myself to reflect how I had tended him in infancy, and watched him grow to youth, and followed him almost through his whole course; and what absurd nonsense it was to yield to that sense of horror. ‘But where did he come from, the little dark thing, harboured by a good man to his bane?’ muttered Superstition, as I dozed into unconsciousness. And I began, half dreaming, to weary myself with imagining some fit parentage for him; and, repeating my waking meditations, I tracked his existence over again, with grim variations; at last, picturing his death and funeral: of which, all I can remember is, being exceedingly vexed at having the task of dictating an inscription for his monument, and consulting the sexton about it; and, as he had no surname, and we could not tell his age, we were obliged to content ourselves with the single word, ‘Heathcliff.’ That came true: we were. If you enter the kirkyard, you’ll read, on his headstone, only that, and the date of his death.
“他是食尸鬼还是吸血鬼？”我沉思道。我读过这样可怕的恶魔化身。然后我开始反思我是如何在他的婴儿期照顾他的，看着他成长为青年，并几乎跟随他走过了他的整个人生历程。屈服于那种恐怖感是多么荒谬的胡言乱语。 “可是他是从哪里来的，这个黑暗的小东西，被一个好人藏起来，给他带来祸害呢？”当我打瞌睡失去知觉时，迷信嘀咕道。我半梦半醒地开始为他想象一些合适的出身而感到疲倦。我重复着清醒时的沉思，再次追踪他的存在，但变化却很严峻。最后，描绘了他的死亡和葬礼：其中，我所记得的就是，我对为他的纪念碑口述碑文的任务感到非常烦恼，并就此咨询了教堂司事；而且，由于他没有姓氏，我们也无法得知他的年龄，我们只得满足于“希刺克厉夫”这个词。事实证明：我们确实是这样。如果你进入柯克庭院，你会在他的墓碑上看到这一点，以及他的死亡日期。

Dawn restored me to common sense. I rose, and went into the garden, as soon as I could see, to ascertain if there were any footmarks under his window. There were none. ‘He has stayed at home,’ I thought, ‘and he’ll be all right to-day.’ I prepared breakfast for the household, as was my usual custom, but told Hareton and Catherine to get theirs ere the master came down, for he lay late. They preferred taking it out of doors, under the trees, and I set a little table to accommodate them.
黎明让我恢复了常识。我一看见就站起来走进花园，想看看他的窗户下面是否有脚印。没有。 “他一直待在家里，”我想，“今天他会没事的。”我按照惯例为一家人准备了早餐，但告诉哈里顿和凯瑟琳在主人下来之前去拿早餐。 ，因为他睡得很晚。他们更喜欢把它带到户外，树下，我设置了一张小桌子来容纳他们。

On my re-entrance, I found Mr. Heathcliff below. He and Joseph were conversing about some farming business; he gave clear, minute directions concerning the matter discussed, but he spoke rapidly, and turned his head continually aside, and had the same excited expression, even more exaggerated. When Joseph quitted the room he took his seat in the place he generally chose, and I put a basin of coffee before him. He drew it nearer, and then rested his arms on the table, and looked at the opposite wall, as I supposed, surveying one particular portion, up and down, with glittering, restless eyes, and with such eager interest that he stopped breathing during half a minute together.
当我重新进入时，我在下面发现了希刺克厉夫先生。他和约瑟夫正在谈论一些农业生意；他对所讨论的问题给出了清晰、详细的指示，但他语速很快，而且不断地把头转向一边，表情同样激动，甚至更加夸张。当约瑟夫离开房间时，他在他通常选择的地方坐下来，我在他面前放了一盆咖啡。他把它拉近了一些，然后把胳膊放在桌子上，看着对面的墙，正如我所想的那样，用闪闪发光、焦躁不安的眼睛上下打量着一个特定的部分，他的兴趣如此浓厚，以至于在整个过程中他停止了呼吸。在一起半分钟。

‘Come now,’ I exclaimed, pushing some bread against his hand, ‘eat and drink that, while it is hot: it has been waiting near an hour.’
“来吧，”我喊道，把一些面包推到他手上，“趁热吃喝吧：已经等了将近一个小时了。”

He didn’t notice me, and yet he smiled. I’d rather have seen him gnash his teeth than smile so.
他没有注意到我，但他笑了。我宁愿看到他咬牙切齿，也不愿看到他这样微笑。

‘Mr. Heathcliff! master!’ I cried, ‘don’t, for God’s sake, stare as if you saw an unearthly vision.’
'先生。希斯克利夫！主人！”我喊道，“看在上帝的份上，别盯着看，好像你看到了一个超凡脱俗的景象。”

‘Don’t, for God’s sake, shout so loud,’ he replied. ‘Turn round, and tell me, are we by ourselves?’
“看在上帝的份上，别喊这么大声，”他回答道。 “转过身来，告诉我，我们是独自一人吗？”

‘Of course,’ was my answer; ‘of course we are.’
“当然，”我的回答是。 “我们当然是。”

Still, I involuntarily obeyed him, as if I was not quite sure. With a sweep of his hand he cleared a vacant space in front among the breakfast things, and leant forward to gaze more at his ease.
尽管如此，我还是不由自主地服从了他，好像我不太确定。他一挥手，在前面的早餐用品中清理出了一块空位，然后倾身向前，更加自在地凝视着自己。

Now, I perceived he was not looking at the wall; for when I regarded him alone, it seemed exactly that he gazed at something within two yards’ distance. And whatever it was, it communicated, apparently, both pleasure and pain in exquisite extremes: at least the anguished, yet raptured, expression of his countenance suggested that idea. The fancied object was not fixed, either: his eyes pursued it with unwearied diligence, and, even in speaking to me, were never weaned away. I vainly reminded him of his protracted abstinence from food: if he stirred to touch anything in compliance with my entreaties, if he stretched his hand out to get a piece of bread, his fingers clenched before they reached it, and remained on the table, forgetful of their aim.
现在，我发现他没有看着墙；而是看着墙壁。因为当我单独看他时，他似乎正凝视着两码距离内的某个东西。不管它是什么，显然，它以精致的极端方式传达了快乐和痛苦：至少他脸上痛苦而狂喜的表情表明了这一点。幻想中的物体也不是固定的：他的眼睛不知疲倦地追寻着它，甚至在对我说话时，也从未离开过。我徒劳地提醒他他长期禁食：如果他按照我的恳求动身去触碰任何东西，如果他伸出手去拿一块面包，他的手指在到达之前就握紧了，并留在桌子上，忘记了他们的目标。

I sat, a model of patience, trying to attract his absorbed attention from its engrossing speculation; till he grew irritable, and got up, asking why I would not allow him to have his own time in taking his meals? and saying that on the next occasion I needn’t wait: I might set the things down and go. Having uttered these words he left the house, slowly sauntered down the garden path, and disappeared through the gate.
我坐下来，表现出耐心的典范，试图吸引他全神贯注的思考。直到他变得烦躁，站起来，问我为什么不让他有自己的时间吃饭？并说下次我不必等待：我可以放下东西就走。说完，他出了家门，慢慢地沿着花园小路漫步，消失在大门外。

The hours crept anxiously by: another evening came. I did not retire to rest till late, and when I did, I could not sleep. He returned after midnight, and, instead of going to bed, shut himself into the room beneath. I listened, and tossed about, and, finally, dressed and descended. It was too irksome to lie there, harassing my brain with a hundred idle misgivings.
时间焦急地过去了：又一个晚上到来了。直到很晚我才下床休息，休息后却睡不着。午夜后他回来了，但没有上床睡觉，而是把自己关在楼下的房间里。我听着，翻来覆去，最后穿好衣服下了楼。躺在那儿太令人厌烦了，百无聊赖的忧虑困扰着我的大脑。

I distinguished Mr. Heathcliff’s step, restlessly measuring the floor, and he frequently broke the silence by a deep inspiration, resembling a groan. He muttered detached words also; the only one I could catch was the name of Catherine, coupled with some wild term of endearment or suffering; and spoken as one would speak to a person present; low and earnest, and wrung from the depth of his soul. I had not courage to walk straight into the apartment; but I desired to divert him from his reverie, and therefore fell foul of the kitchen fire, stirred it, and began to scrape the cinders. It drew him forth sooner than I expected. He opened the door immediately, and said ‘Nelly, come here is it morning? Come in with your light.’
我辨认出希刺克厉夫先生的脚步，不安地测量着地板，他经常以一种深深的灵感打破沉默，就像呻吟一样。他还咕哝着一些无关紧要的话；我唯一能听出的就是凯瑟琳的名字，再加上一些表达爱意或痛苦的狂野词语。说话方式就像对在场的人说话一样；低沉而真诚，从他的灵魂深处汲取。我没有勇气径直走进公寓；但我想让他从沉思中转移过来，于是我就倒在厨房的火上，搅动它，开始刮煤渣。这比我预想的更早地吸引了他。他立即打开门，说道：“耐莉，过来吧，现在是早上吗？”带上你的光进来吧。

‘It is striking four,’ I answered. ‘You want a candle to take upstairs: you might have lit one at this fire.’
“正好是四，”我回答道。 “你想要一支蜡烛上楼：你可能在这场火上点燃了一根。”

‘No, I don’t wish to go up-stairs,’ he said. ‘Come in, and kindle ME a fire, and do anything there is to do about the room.’
“不，我不想上楼，”他说。 “进来，给我生火，然后对房间做任何事。”

‘I must blow the coals red first, before I can carry any,’ I replied, getting a chair and the bellows
“我必须先把煤吹红，然后才能搬运。”我一边回答，一边拿了一把椅子和风箱。

He roamed to and fro, meantime, in a state approaching distraction; his heavy sighs succeeding each other so thick as to leave no space for common breathing between.
与此同时，他来来回回地走来走去，处于一种近乎心不在焉的状态。他重重的叹息接连而来，如此沉重，以至于没有留下共同呼吸的空间。

‘When day breaks I’ll send for Green,’ he said; ‘I wish to make some legal inquiries of him while I can bestow a thought on those matters, and while I can act calmly. I have not written my will yet; and how to leave my property I cannot determine. I wish I could annihilate it from the face of the earth.’
“天一亮我就会派人去找格林，”他说。 “我希望对他进行一些法律调查，同时我可以思考这些问题，同时我可以冷静地行事。我还没有写遗嘱；我无法确定如何离开我的财产。我希望我能把它从地球上消灭掉。”

‘I would not talk so, Mr. Heathcliff,’ I interposed. ‘Let your will be a while: you’ll be spared to repent of your many injustices yet! I never expected that your nerves would be disordered: they are, at present, marvellously so, however; and almost entirely through your own fault. The way you’ve passed these three last days might knock up a Titan. Do take some food, and some repose. You need only look at yourself in a glass to see how you require both. Your cheeks are hollow, and your eyes bloodshot, like a person starving with hunger and going blind with loss of sleep.’
“希刺克厉夫先生，我不会这么说。”我插话道。 ‘让你的意志停留一段时间吧：你将不必为你的许多不公正行为而悔恨！我没想到你的神经会紊乱：然而，目前，情况却非常糟糕。而且几乎完全是你自己的错。你度过这最后三天的方式可能会击垮泰坦。一定要吃点东西，休息一下。你只需透过镜子看看自己，就能知道你对两者有何需求。你的脸颊凹陷，眼睛布满血丝，就像一个因饥饿而失明、因睡眠不足而失明的人。

‘It is not my fault that I cannot eat or rest,’ he replied. ‘I assure you it is through no settled designs. I’ll do both, as soon as I possibly can. But you might as well bid a man struggling in the water rest within arms’ length of the shore! I must reach it first, and then I’ll rest. Well, never mind Mr. Green: as to repenting of my injustices, I’ve done no injustice, and I repent of nothing. I’m too happy; and yet I’m not happy enough. My soul’s bliss kills my body, but does not satisfy itself.’
“我无法进食或休息，这不是我的错，”他回答道。 “我向你保证，这并不是经过既定的设计。我会尽快做这两件事。但你不妨吩咐一个在水中挣扎的人在离海岸一臂之遥的地方休息！我必须先到达那里，然后我就休息。好吧，别介意格林先生：至于对我的不公正行为的悔改，我没有做过任何不公正的事，我也没有后悔任何事情。我太高兴了；但我还不够快乐。我灵魂的极乐杀死了我的身体，但却无法满足自己。

‘Happy, master?’ I cried. ‘Strange happiness! If you would hear me without being angry, I might offer some advice that would make you happier.’
“高兴吗，主人？”我喊道。 ‘奇怪的幸福！如果你不生气地听我说，我可能会提供一些让你更快乐的建议。

‘What is that?’ he asked. ‘Give it.’
“那是什么？”他问道。 “给吧。”

‘You are aware, Mr. Heathcliff,’ I said, ‘that from the time you were thirteen years old you have lived a selfish, unchristian life; and probably hardly had a Bible in your hands during all that period. You must have forgotten the contents of the book, and you may not have space to search it now. Could it be hurtful to send for some one some minister of any denomination, it does not matter which to explain it, and show you how very far you have erred from its precepts; and how unfit you will be for its heaven, unless a change takes place before you die?’
“你知道，希刺克厉夫先生，”我说，“从你十三岁起，你就过着自私、非基督徒的生活；在那段时期你手里可能几乎没有一本圣经。你一定已经忘记了这本书的内容，而且你现在可能没有空间去搜索。如果派一位任何教派的牧师来找某人是有害的，那么用哪一个来解释它并告诉你你已经偏离了它的戒律有多远，这并不重要。除非在你死前发生改变，否则你将多么不适合天堂？

‘I’m rather obliged than angry, Nelly,’ he said, ‘for you remind me of the manner in which I desire to be buried. It is to be carried to the churchyard in the evening. You and Hareton may, if you please, accompany me: and mind, particularly, to notice that the sexton obeys my directions concerning the two coffins! No minister need come; nor need anything be said over me. I tell you I have nearly attained MY heaven; and that of others is altogether unvalued and uncovered by me.’
“耐莉，我与其说是生气，倒不如说是感激，”他说，“因为你让我想起了我希望被埋葬的方式。晚上将其运至教堂墓地。如果你愿意的话，你和哈里顿可以陪我一起去：特别要注意的是，教堂司事遵守我关于两具棺材的指示！部长不需要来；也不需要对我说什么。我告诉你我已经快到达我的天堂了；而其他人的一切完全不被我重视和发现。

‘And supposing you persevered in your obstinate fast, and died by that means, and they refused to bury you in the precincts of the kirk?’ I said, shocked at his godless indifference. ‘How would you like it?’
“假设你坚持不懈地禁食，并因此而死，而他们拒绝将你埋葬在教堂的范围内呢？”我说，对他不敬虔的冷漠感到震惊。 “你觉得怎么样？”

‘They won’t do that,’ he replied: ‘if they did, you must have me removed secretly; and if you neglect it you shall prove, practically, that the dead are not annihilated!’
“他们不会这么做，”他回答道，“如果他们这么做了，你就必须秘密地把我带走；如果你忽视了这一点，你实际上就会证明死者并没有被消灭！

As soon as he heard the other members of the family stirring he retired to his den, and I breathed freer. But in the afternoon, while Joseph and Hareton were at their work, he came into the kitchen again, and, with a wild look, bid me come and sit in the house: he wanted somebody with him. I declined; telling him plainly that his strange talk and manner frightened me, and I had neither the nerve nor the will to be his companion alone.
当他听到家里其他成员开始动静时，他就回到了自己的书房，我的呼吸也更加自由了。但到了下午，当约瑟夫和哈里顿在工作时，他又走进厨房，一脸狂野地邀请我到屋里坐：他想要有人陪他。我拒绝了；坦白地告诉他，他奇怪的谈话和举止让我害怕，我既没有勇气也没有意愿单独和他做伴。

‘I believe you think me a fiend,’ he said, with his dismal laugh: ‘something too horrible to live under a decent roof.’ Then turning to Catherine, who was there, and who drew behind me at his approach, he added, half sneeringly, ‘Will YOU come, chuck? I’ll not hurt you. No! to you I’ve made myself worse than the devil. Well, there is ONE who won’t shrink from my company! By God! she’s relentless. Oh, damn it! It’s unutterably too much for flesh and blood to bear even mine.’
“我相信你认为我是一个恶魔，”他阴沉地笑道，“这种东西太可怕了，无法生活在像样的屋顶下。”然后转向凯瑟琳，她就在那里，当他走近时，凯瑟琳就在我身后，他补充道半嘲讽地说：“你会来吗，查克？”我不会伤害你。不！对你来说，我让自己比魔鬼还要糟糕。好吧，有一个人不会在我的陪伴下退缩！老天为证！她是无情的。哦，该死！即使是我的血肉之躯也难以承受。

He solicited the society of no one more. At dusk he went into his chamber. Through the whole night, and far into the morning, we heard him groaning and murmuring to himself. Hareton was anxious to enter; but I bid him fetch Mr. Kenneth, and he should go in and see him. When he came, and I requested admittance and tried to open the door, I found it locked; and Heathcliff bid us be damned. He was better, and would be left alone; so the doctor went away.
他不再与任何人交往。黄昏时分，他走进自己的房间。整个晚上，一直到凌晨，我们都听到他在呻吟，自言自语。哈里顿迫不及待地想进去。但我吩咐他去叫肯尼斯先生来，他应该进去看看他。当他来的时候，我请求进入并试图打开门，但我发现门锁着；希刺克厉夫让我们见鬼去吧。他好多了，不会再被打扰了。于是医生就走了。

The following evening was very wet: indeed, it poured down till day-dawn; and, as I took my morning walk round the house, I observed the master’s window swinging open, and the rain driving straight in. He cannot be in bed, I thought: those showers would drench him through. He must either be up or out. But I’ll make no more ado, I’ll go boldly and look.’
第二天晚上，雨很大，确实，倾盆大雨一直下到天亮。当我早上在房子周围散步时，我看到主人的窗户打开了，雨水直冲进来。我想，他不能躺在床上：那些阵雨会把他淋湿的。他必须要么起来，要么出去。但我不会再多费事了，我会大胆地去看看。

Having succeeded in obtaining entrance with another key, I ran to unclose the panels, for the chamber was vacant; quickly pushing them aside, I peeped in. Mr. Heathcliff was there laid on his back. His eyes met mine so keen and fierce, I started; and then he seemed to smile. I could not think him dead: but his face and throat were washed with rain; the bed-clothes dripped, and he was perfectly still. The lattice, flapping to and fro, had grazed one hand that rested on the sill; no blood trickled from the broken skin, and when I put my fingers to it, I could doubt no more: he was dead and stark!
当我用另一把钥匙成功进入房间后，我跑去打开面板，因为房间是空的。我赶紧把它们推到一边，往里看去。希刺克厉夫先生仰面躺在那里。他的目光如此锐利而凶猛地与我相遇，我吃了一惊。然后他似乎微笑了。我无法认为他已经死了：但他的脸和喉咙都被雨水冲刷过；床单滴着水，他一动不动。来回拍打的格子擦伤了放在窗台上的一只手；破损的皮肤上没有流血，当我把手指放在上面时，我不再怀疑：他已经死了，而且面无表情！

I hasped the window; I combed his black long hair from his forehead; I tried to close his eyes: to extinguish, if possible, that frightful, life-like gaze of exultation before any one else beheld it. They would not shut: they seemed to sneer at my attempts; and his parted lips and sharp white teeth sneered too! Taken with another fit of cowardice, I cried out for Joseph. Joseph shuffled up and made a noise, but resolutely refused to meddle with him.
我关上窗户；我从额前梳理着他黑色的长发；我试图闭上他的眼睛：如果可能的话，在其他人看到之前熄灭他那可怕的、栩栩如生的狂喜目光。他们不肯关门：他们似乎嘲笑我的尝试；他张开的嘴唇和锋利的白牙也在冷笑！我再次感到胆怯，大声呼唤约瑟夫。约瑟夫拖着脚步起身，发出了声音，却坚决不肯多管闲事。

‘Th’ divil’s harried off his soul,’ he cried, ‘and he may hev’ his carcass into t’ bargin, for aught I care! Ech! what a wicked ‘un he looks, girning at death!’ and the old sinner grinned in mockery. I thought he intended to cut a caper round the bed; but suddenly composing himself, he fell on his knees, and raised his hands, and returned thanks that the lawful master and the ancient stock were restored to their rights.
“这个恶魔夺走了他的灵魂，”他喊道，“他可能会把他的尸体拖入交易，我不在乎！”哎呀！ “他看起来多么邪恶，死时还挂着笑容！”老罪人嘲笑地笑了。我以为他打算在床上蹦蹦跳跳。但他突然镇定下来，跪下，举起双手，感谢合法的主人和古老的股票恢复了他们的权利。

I felt stunned by the awful event; and my memory unavoidably recurred to former times with a sort of oppressive sadness. But poor Hareton, the most wronged, was the only one who really suffered much. He sat by the corpse all night, weeping in bitter earnest. He pressed its hand, and kissed the sarcastic, savage face that every one else shrank from contemplating; and bemoaned him with that strong grief which springs naturally from a generous heart, though it be tough as tempered steel.
我对这可怕的事件感到震惊；我的记忆不可避免地浮现在往日，带着一种压抑的悲伤。但可怜的哈里顿是最受委屈的，也是唯一真正受苦的人。他整夜坐在尸体旁边，伤心地哭泣。他握住它的手，吻了吻那张讽刺而野蛮的脸，其他人都不敢正视它。并用强烈的悲伤来哀悼他，这种悲伤是从一颗慷慨的心自然产生的，尽管它像经过淬炼的钢铁一样坚硬。

Mr. Kenneth was perplexed to pronounce of what disorder the master died. I concealed the fact of his having swallowed nothing for four days, fearing it might lead to trouble, and then, I am persuaded, he did not abstain on purpose: it was the consequence of his strange illness, not the cause.
肯尼思先生对于主人死于何种疾病感到困惑。我隐瞒了他四天没有吞咽任何东西的事实，担心这会引起麻烦，然后，我相信他不是故意禁食的：这是他奇怪的疾病的结果，而不是原因。

We buried him, to the scandal of the whole neighbourhood, as he wished. Earnshaw and I, the sexton, and six men to carry the coffin, comprehended the whole attendance. The six men departed when they had let it down into the grave: we stayed to see it covered. Hareton, with a streaming face, dug green sods, and laid them over the brown mould himself: at present it is as smooth and verdant as its companion mounds and I hope its tenant sleeps as soundly. But the country folks, if you ask them, would swear on the Bible that he WALKS: there are those who speak to having met him near the church, and on the moor, and even within this house. Idle tales, you’ll say, and so say I. Yet that old man by the kitchen fire affirms he has seen two on ‘em looking out of his chamber window on every rainy night since his death:and an odd thing happened to me about a month ago. I was going to the Grange one evening a dark evening, threatening thunder and, just at the turn of the Heights, I encountered a little boy with a sheep and two lambs before him; he was crying terribly; and I supposed the lambs were skittish, and would not be guided.
我们按照他的意愿埋葬了他，引起了整个街区的丑闻。恩肖和我，教堂司事，以及六名搬运棺材的人，了解了整个出席情况。当他们把它放进坟墓时，六个人就离开了：我们留下来看着它被盖上。哈里顿满脸流着泪，挖了绿色的草皮，亲自把它们铺在棕色的霉菌上：现在它和它的同伴土丘一样光滑、青翠，我希望它的房客也睡得香甜。但如果你问乡下人，他们会根据《圣经》发誓说他是行走的：有人说在教堂附近、荒野上、甚至在这所房子里见过他。无聊的故事，你会说，我也这么说。然而，厨房火旁的那个老人确认，自从他死后的每个雨夜，他都看到两个人从他房间的窗户往外看：而我身上发生了一件奇怪的事情大概一个月前。一天晚上，一个漆黑的夜晚，我正要去田庄，雷声逼人，就在高地的拐角处，我遇到了一个小男孩，他面前牵着一只绵羊和两只小羊羔。他哭得很厉害；我猜想小羊们很容易受惊，不会被引导。

‘What is the matter, my little man?’ I asked.
“怎么了，我的小家伙？”我问道。

‘There’s Heathcliff and a woman yonder, under t’ nab,’ he blubbered, ‘un’ I darnut pass ‘em.’
“那边有希刺克厉夫和一个女人，就在他的下面，”他哭喊着，“但我绝对不会从他们身边经过。”

I saw nothing; but neither the sheep nor he would go on so I bid him take the road lower down. He probably raised the phantoms from thinking, as he traversed the moors alone, on the nonsense he had heard his parents and companions repeat. Yet, still, I don’t like being out in the dark now; and I don’t like being left by myself in this grim house: I cannot help it; I shall be glad when they leave it, and shift to the Grange.
我什么也没看见；但羊和他都不愿意继续前行，所以我吩咐他走更低的路。当他独自穿越荒原时，他可能因听到父母和同伴重复的胡言乱语而产生了幻觉。然而，我现在仍然不喜欢在黑暗中待着。我不喜欢被独自留在这间阴森的房子里：我无法控制；当他们离开这里，转移到田庄时，我会很高兴。

‘They are going to the Grange, then?’ I said.
“那么他们要去田庄吗？”我说。

‘Yes,’ answered Mrs. Dean, ‘as soon as they are married, and that will be on New Year’s Day.’
“是的，”迪恩太太回答道，“他们一结婚，就在元旦。”

‘And who will live here then?’
“那么谁会住在这里呢？”

‘Why, Joseph will take care of the house, and, perhaps, a lad to keep him company. They will live in the kitchen, and the rest will be shut up.’
‘嘿，约瑟夫会照顾房子，也许还会有一个小伙子陪伴他。他们将住在厨房里，其余的将被关闭。

‘For the use of such ghosts as choose to inhabit it?’ I observed.
“为了利用那些选择居住在其中的鬼魂？”我观察到。

‘No, Mr. Lockwood,’ said Nelly, shaking her head. ‘I believe the dead are at peace: but it is not right to speak of them with levity.’
“不，洛克伍德先生，”耐莉摇着头说道。 “我相信死者安息：但轻率地谈论他们是不对的。”

At that moment the garden gate swung to; the ramblers were returning.
就在这时，花园的大门打开了；漫步者正在返回。

‘THEY are afraid of nothing,’ I grumbled, watching their approach through the window. ‘Together, they would brave Satan and all his legions.’
“他们什么都不怕，”我抱怨道，透过窗户看着他们走近。 “他们将一起勇敢地面对撒旦和他的所有军团。”

As they stepped on to the door-stones, and halted to take a last look at the moon or, more correctly, at each other by her light I felt irresistibly impelled to escape them again; and, pressing a remembrance into the hand of Mrs. Dean, and disregarding her expostulations at my rudeness, I vanished through the kitchen as they opened the house-door; and so should have confirmed Joseph in his opinion of his fellow-servant’s gay indiscretions, had he not fortunately recognised me for a respectable character by the sweet ring of a sovereign at his feet.
当他们踏上门石，停下来最后看了一眼月亮，或者更准确地说，在她的光芒下互相看了一眼时，我感到不可抗拒地想要再次逃离他们；但我却无法抗拒。当他们打开房门时，我把一份纪念塞到迪安太太手里，不顾她对我粗鲁的劝告，就消失在厨房里。如果不是幸运的是，约瑟夫脚下戴着一枚主权戒指，幸运地认识到我是一个值得尊敬的人，那么他应该会证实他对他的同伴仆人的轻率行为的看法。

My walk home was lengthened by a diversion in the direction of the kirk. When beneath its walls, I perceived decay had made progress, even in seven months: many a window showed black gaps deprived of glass; and slates jutted off here and there, beyond the right line of the roof, to be gradually worked off in coming autumn storms.
我回家的路因改道朝柯克方向而延长了。在它的墙下，我感觉到腐烂已经进展，甚至在七个月内：许多窗户都显示出没有玻璃的黑色缝隙；石板到处突出，超出了屋顶的右线，在即将到来的秋季暴风雨中逐渐被拆除。

I sought, and soon discovered, the three headstones on the slope next the moor: on middle one grey, and half buried in the heath; Edgar Linton’s only harmonized by the turf and moss creeping up its foot; Heathcliff’s still bare.
我寻找着，很快就发现了荒原旁边斜坡上的三块墓碑：中间一块是灰色的，一半埋在石南丛中；另一块是灰色的，一半埋在石南丛中。埃德加·林顿的唯一和谐之处是脚下爬满的草皮和苔藓；希斯克利夫仍然光着身子。

I lingered round them, under that benign sky: watched the moths fluttering among the heath and harebells, listened to the soft wind breathing through the grass, and wondered how any one could ever imagine unquiet slumbers for the sleepers in that quiet earth.
我在那片宜人的天空下徘徊在他们周围：看着飞蛾在石南和兔耳草间飞舞，聆听微风吹过草地的声音，想知道如何有人能够想象在这片安静的土地上睡眠的人会感到不安。