Erewhon
埃雷洪
Erewhon
埃雷洪
Or
Over the Range
超出范围
PREFACE TO THE FIRST EDITION
第一版序言
PREFACE TO SECOND EDITION
第二版序言
PREFACE TO THE REVISED EDITION
修订版前言
CHAPTER I: WASTE LANDS
第一章：荒地
CHAPTER II: IN THE WOOL-SHED
第二章：在羊毛棚里
CHAPTER III: UP THE RIVER
第三章：逆流而上
CHAPTER IV: THE SADDLE
第四章：马鞍
CHAPTER V: THE RIVER AND THE RANGE
第五章：河流和山脉
CHAPTER VI: INTO EREWHON
第六章：进入埃里洪
CHAPTER VII: FIRST IMPRESSIONS
第七章：第一印象
CHAPTER VIII: IN PRISON
第八章：监狱里
CHAPTER IX: TO THE METROPOLIS
第九章：前往大都市
CHAPTER X: CURRENT OPINIONS
第十章：当前观点
CHAPTER XI: SOME EREWHONIAN TRIALS
第十一章：一些埃雷霍尼亚的审判
CHAPTER XII: MALCONTENTS
第十二章：恶意内容
CHAPTER XIII: THE VIEWS OF THE EREWHONIANS CONCERNING DEATH
第十三章：埃雷霍尼安派关于死亡的观点
CHAPTER XIV: MAHAINA
第十四章：玛海娜
CHAPTER XV: THE MUSICAL BANKS
第十五章：音乐库
CHAPTER XVI: AROWHENA
第十六章：阿罗维娜
CHAPTER XVII: YDGRUN AND THE YDGRUNITES
第十七章：YDGRUN 和 YDGRUNITES
CHAPTER XVIII: BIRTH FORMULAE
第十八章：出生公式
CHAPTER XIX: THE WORLD OF THE UNBORN
第十九章：未出生的世界
CHAPTER XX: WHAT THEY MEAN BY IT
第二十章：他们的意思
CHAPTER XXI: THE COLLEGES OF UNREASON
第二十一章：非理性学院
CHAPTER XXII: THE COLLEGES OF UNREASON—Continued
第二十二章：非理性学院——续
CHAPTER XXIII: THE BOOK OF THE MACHINES
第二十三章：机器之书
CHAPTER XXIV: THE MACHINES—continued
第二十四章：机器——续
CHAPTER XXV: THE MACHINES—concluded
第二十五章：机器——结束
CHAPTER XXVI: THE VIEWS OF AN EREWHONIAN PROPHET CONCERNING THE
第二十六章：一位埃雷沃尼安先知关于
CHAPTER XXVII: THE VIEWS OF AN EREWHONIAN PHILOSOPHER CONCERNING
第二十七章：一位埃雷霍尼安哲学家的观点
CHAPTER XXVIII: ESCAPE
第二十八章：逃跑
CHAPTER XXIX: CONCLUSION
第二十九章：结论
Footnotes
脚注

Erewhon
埃雷洪

Or

Over the Range
超出范围

By Samuel Butler
塞缪尔·巴特勒

PREFACE TO THE FIRST EDITION
第一版序言

The Author wishes it to be understood that Erewhon is pronounced as a word of three syllables, all short—thus, E-re-whon.
作者希望人们能够理解，Erewhon 的发音是一个三音节单词，全部都很短，因此是 E-re-whon。

PREFACE TO SECOND EDITION
第二版序言

Having been enabled by the kindness of the public to get through an unusually large edition of ‘Erewhon’ in a very short time, I have taken the opportunity of a second edition to make some necessary corrections, and to add a few passages where it struck me that they would be appropriately introduced; the passages are few, and it is my fixed intention never to touch the work again.
由于公众的善意，我在很短的时间内读完了异常大的《Erewhon》版本，我利用第二版的机会做了一些必要的更正，并添加了一些令人震惊的段落。我会适当地介绍他们；段落很少，我已经决定不再碰这部作品了。

I may perhaps be allowed to say a word or two here in reference to ‘The Coming Race,’ to the success of which book ‘Erewhon’ has been very generally set down as due. This is a mistake, though a perfectly natural one. The fact is that ‘Erewhon’ was finished, with the exception of the last twenty pages and a sentence or two inserted from time to time here and there throughout the book, before the first advertisement of ‘The Coming Race’ appeared. A friend having called my attention to one of the first of these advertisements, and suggesting that it probably referred to a work of similar character to my own, I took ‘Erewhon’ to a well-known firm of publishers on the 1st of May 1871, and left it in their hands for consideration. I then went abroad, and on learning that the publishers alluded to declined the MS., I let it alone for six or seven months, and, being in an out-of-the-way part of Italy, never saw a single review of ‘The Coming Race,’ nor a copy of the work. On my return, I purposely avoided looking into it until I had sent back my last revises to the printer. Then I had much pleasure in reading it, but was indeed surprised at the many little points of similarity between the two books, in spite of their entire independence to one another.
也许我可以在这里就《即将到来的种族》说一两句话，人们普遍认为这本书的成功是《Erewhon》。这是一个错误，尽管是很自然的错误。事实上，在《即将到来的种族》的第一个广告出现之前，《Erewhon》已经完成，除了最后二十页和全书中不时插入的一两句话。一位朋友让我注意其中的第一个广告，并暗示它可能指的是一部与我自己的作品性质相似的作品，于是我于 1871 年 5 月 1 日将《Erewhon》带到了一家著名的出版商公司。 ，并把它留给他们考虑。然后我出国了，得知出版商暗示要拒绝MS，我就这样放了六七个月，而且，在意大利的一个偏僻地区，从来没有看到过一篇评论《即将到来的种族》，也不是该作品的副本。回来后，我故意避免查看它，直到我将最后的修改发回打印机。然后我很高兴地阅读了这本书，但确实对这两本书之间的许多小相似点感到惊讶，尽管它们完全相互独立。

I regret that reviewers have in some cases been inclined to treat the chapters on Machines as an attempt to reduce Mr. Darwin’s theory to an absurdity. Nothing could be further from my intention, and few things would be more distasteful to me than any attempt to laugh at Mr. Darwin; but I must own that I have myself to thank for the misconception, for I felt sure that my intention would be missed, but preferred not to weaken the chapters by explanation, and knew very well that Mr. Darwin’s theory would take no harm. The only question in my mind was how far I could afford to be misrepresented as laughing at that for which I have the most profound admiration. I am surprised, however, that the book at which such an example of the specious misuse of analogy would seem most naturally levelled should have occurred to no reviewer; neither shall I mention the name of the book here, though I should fancy that the hint given will suffice.
我感到遗憾的是，在某些情况下，审稿人倾向于将有关机器的章节视为试图将达尔文先生的理论简化为荒谬。没有什么比我的本意更遥远的了，对我来说，没有什么比嘲笑达尔文先生更令人反感的了。但我必须承认，我要感谢自己的误解，因为我确信我的意图会被忽视，但我宁愿不通过解释来削弱这些章节，并且非常清楚达尔文先生的理论不会受到损害。我心中唯一的问题是，我在多大程度上可以承受被误解为嘲笑我最钦佩的事物。然而，令我惊讶的是，没有一个评论家想到过在这本书中出现这样一个似是而非的滥用类比的例子，这似乎是最自然的。我也不打算在这里提及这本书的名字，尽管我想所给出的提示就足够了。

I have been held by some whose opinions I respect to have denied men’s responsibility for their actions. He who does this is an enemy who deserves no quarter. I should have imagined that I had been sufficiently explicit, but have made a few additions to the chapter on Malcontents, which will, I think, serve to render further mistake impossible.
我曾被一些我尊重的观点所否定，他们否认人类对自己的行为负有责任。这样做的人是一个不容饶恕的敌人。我本应该想象我已经足够明确了，但我对关于不满的章节做了一些补充，我认为这将有助于使进一步的错误成为不可能。

An anonymous correspondent (by the hand-writing presumably a clergyman) tells me that in quoting from the Latin grammar I should at any rate have done so correctly, and that I should have written ‘agricolas’ instead of ‘agricolae”. He added something about any boy in the fourth form, &c., &c., which I shall not quote, but which made me very uncomfortable. It may be said that I must have misquoted from design, from ignorance, or by a slip of the pen; but surely in these days it will be recognised as harsh to assign limits to the all-embracing boundlessness of truth, and it will be more reasonably assumed that EACH of the three possible causes of misquotation must have had its share in the apparent blunder. The art of writing things that shall sound right and yet be wrong has made so many reputations, and affords comfort to such a large number of readers, that I could not venture to neglect it; the Latin grammar, however, is a subject on which some of the younger members of the community feel strongly, so I have now written ‘agricolas”. I have also parted with the word ‘infortuniam’ (though not without regret), but have not dared to meddle with other similar inaccuracies.
一位匿名通讯员（笔迹大概是牧师）告诉我，在引用拉丁语语法时，我无论如何都应该正确地这样做，而且我应该写“agricolas”而不是“agricolae”。他添加了一些关于第四年级男孩的内容，等等，我不会引用，但这让我非常不舒服。也许有人会说，我的引用一定是有意为之、无知或笔误所造成的。但可以肯定的是，在今天，对包罗万象的真理进行限制将被认为是严厉的，并且人们将更合理地假设，错误引用的三个可能原因中的每一个都必定在明显的错误中占有一席之地。写出看似正确但又错误的东西的艺术已经赢得了如此多的声誉，并为如此多的读者提供了安慰，所以我不能冒险忽视它；然而，拉丁语语法是社区中一些年轻成员强烈反对的主题，所以我现在写了“agricolas”。我也放弃了“infortuniam”这个词（尽管并非没有遗憾），但不敢干涉其他类似的不准确之处。

For the inconsistencies in the book, and I am aware that there are not a few, I must ask the indulgence of the reader. The blame, however, lies chiefly with the Erewhonians themselves, for they were really a very difficult people to understand. The most glaring anomalies seemed to afford them no intellectual inconvenience; neither, provided they did not actually see the money dropping out of their pockets, nor suffer immediate physical pain, would they listen to any arguments as to the waste of money and happiness which their folly caused them. But this had an effect of which I have little reason to complain, for I was allowed almost to call them life-long self-deceivers to their faces, and they said it was quite true, but that it did not matter.
对于书中不一致的地方，我知道其中不少，还请读者谅解。然而，这主要归咎于埃雷洪尼亚人本身，因为他们确实是一个很难理解的民族。最明显的异常似乎并没有给他们带来智力上的不便。只要他们没有真正看到钱从口袋里掉出来，也没有立即遭受身体上的痛苦，他们也不会听任何关于他们的愚蠢行为造成的金钱和幸福浪费的争论。但这产生了我没有理由抱怨的效果，因为我几乎可以当面称他们为终生的自欺欺人，他们说这是千真万确的，但这并不重要。

I must not conclude without expressing my most sincere thanks to my critics and to the public for the leniency and consideration with which they have treated my adventures.
在结束发言之前，我必须向我的批评者和公众对我的冒险经历的宽容和考虑表示最诚挚的感谢。

June 9, 1872
1872 年 6 月 9 日

PREFACE TO THE REVISED EDITION
修订版前言

My publisher wishes me to say a few words about the genesis of the work, a revised and enlarged edition of which he is herewith laying before the public. I therefore place on record as much as I can remember on this head after a lapse of more than thirty years.
我的出版商希望我就这部作品的起源说几句话，他现将其修订和扩大的版本摆在公众面前。因此，时隔三十多年，我将我所记得的全部内容记录在案。

The first part of ‘Erewhon’ written was an article headed ‘Darwin among the Machines,’ and signed Cellarius. It was written in the Upper Rangitata district of the Canterbury Province (as it then was) of New Zealand, and appeared at Christchurch in the Press Newspaper, June 13, 1863. A copy of this article is indexed under my books in the British Museum catalogue. In passing, I may say that the opening chapters of ‘Erewhon’ were also drawn from the Upper Rangitata district, with such modifications as I found convenient.
《Erewhon》的第​​一部分是一篇题为《机器中的达尔文》的文章，署名是塞拉留斯。它写于新西兰坎特伯雷省（当时的情况）的上朗伊塔塔区，并于 1863 年 6 月 13 日在基督城的新闻报纸上发表。这篇文章的副本在大英博物馆的我的书籍下有索引目录。顺便说一句，我可以说《Erewhon》的开头章节也是取自上朗吉塔塔地区，并进行了我认为方便的修改。

A second article on the same subject as the one just referred to appeared in the Press shortly after the first, but I have no copy. It treated Machines from a different point of view, and was the basis of pp. 270-274 of the present edition of ‘Erewhon.’ {1} This view ultimately led me to the theory I put forward in ‘Life and Habit,’ published in November 1877. I have put a bare outline of this theory (which I believe to be quite sound) into the mouth of an Erewhonian philosopher in Chapter XXVII. of this book.
第一篇文章发表后不久，新闻界就出现了与刚才提到的同一主题的第二篇文章，但我没有副本。它从不同的角度对待机器，并且是当前版本《Erewhon》第 270-274 页的基础。{1}这种观点最终引导我得出了我在《生活与习惯》中提出的理论，于 1877 年 11 月出版。我在第二十七章中将这一理论（我认为相当合理）的简单概述放入了一位埃雷洪派哲学家的口中。这本书的。

In 1865 I rewrote and enlarged ‘Darwin among the Machines’ for the Reasoner, a paper published in London by Mr. G. J. Holyoake. It appeared July 1, 1865, under the heading, ‘The Mechanical Creation,’ and can be seen in the British Museum. I again rewrote and enlarged it, till it assumed the form in which it appeared in the first edition of ‘Erewhon.’
1865 年，我为 Reasoner 重写并扩充了 G. J. Holyoake 先生在伦敦发表的一篇论文《机器中的达尔文》。它于 1865 年 7 月 1 日出版，标题为“机械创造”，现藏于大英博物馆。我再次重写并扩大了它，直到它呈现出《Erewhon》第一版中的形式。

The next part of ‘Erewhon’ that I wrote was the ‘World of the Unborn,’ a preliminary form of which was sent to Mr. Holyoake’s paper, but as I cannot find it among those copies of the Reasoner that are in the British Museum, I conclude that it was not accepted. I have, however, rather a strong fancy that it appeared in some London paper of the same character as the Reasoner, not very long after July 1, 1865, but I have no copy.
我写的《Erewhon》的下一部分是《未出生的世界》，其初步形式已发送到霍利奥克先生的报纸上，但我在大英博物馆的推理者副本中找不到它，我的结论是不被接受。然而，我有一种强烈的幻想，它出现在 1865 年 7 月 1 日之后不久，出现在伦敦某家与《理性者》性质相同的报纸上，但我没有副本。

I also wrote about this time the substance of what ultimately became the Musical Banks, and the trial of a man for being in a consumption. These four detached papers were, I believe, all that was written of ‘Erewhon’ before 1870. Between 1865 and 1870 I wrote hardly anything, being hopeful of attaining that success as a painter which it has not been vouchsafed me to attain, but in the autumn of 1870, just as I was beginning to get occasionally hung at Royal Academy exhibitions, my friend, the late Sir F. N. (then Mr.) Broome, suggested to me that I should add somewhat to the articles I had already written, and string them together into a book. I was rather fired by the idea, but as I only worked at the MS. on Sundays it was some months before I had completed it.
这次我还写了最终成为音乐银行的实质内容，以及对一个处于消费状态的人的审判。我相信，这四篇独立的论文是 1870 年之前关于《埃里翁》的全部内容。在 1865 年至 1870 年间，我几乎没有写过任何东西，希望能获得作为一名画家的成功，虽然我没有获得过这种成功，但在1870 年秋天，正当我开始偶尔在皇家学院的展览上被绞死时，我的朋友、已故的 F.N. 布鲁姆爵士（当时的布鲁姆先生）建议我应该在我已经写的文章中添加一些内容，并且将它们串成一本书。我被这个想法解雇了，但因为我只在微软工作过。周日，我花了几个月才完成它。

I see from my second Preface that I took the book to Messrs. Chapman & Hall May 1, 1871, and on their rejection of it, under the advice of one who has attained the highest rank among living writers, I let it sleep, till I took it to Mr. Trubner early in 1872. As regards its rejection by Messrs. Chapman & Hall, I believe their reader advised them quite wisely. They told me he reported that it was a philosophical work, little likely to be popular with a large circle of readers. I hope that if I had been their reader, and the book had been submitted to myself, I should have advised them to the same effect.
我从我的第二序言中看到，我于 1871 年 5 月 1 日把这本书交给了查普曼和霍尔先生，他们拒绝了这本书，在一位在世作家中排名最高的人的建议下，我让它沉睡了，直到1872 年初，我把它交给了特鲁布纳先生。对于查普曼和霍尔先生的拒绝，我相信他们的读者给了他们相当明智的建议。他们告诉我，他报告说这是一本哲学著作，不太可能受到广大读者的欢迎。我希望，如果我是他们的读者，并且这本书是提交给我自己的，我应该给他们提出同样的建议。

‘Erewhon’ appeared with the last day or two of March 1872. I attribute its unlooked-for success mainly to two early favourable reviews—the first in the Pall Mall Gazette of April 12, and the second in the Spectator of April 20. There was also another cause. I was complaining once to a friend that though ‘Erewhon’ had met with such a warm reception, my subsequent books had been all of them practically still-born. He said, ‘You forget one charm that ‘Erewhon’ had, but which none of your other books can have.’ I asked what? and was answered, ‘The sound of a new voice, and of an unknown voice.’
《Erewhon》于 1872 年 3 月的最后一两天出现。我将其意想不到的成功主要归功于早期的两篇好评——第一篇发表在 4 月 12 日的《Pall Mall Gazette》上，第二篇发表在 4 月 20 日的《旁观者》上。也是另一个原因。有一次我向一位朋友抱怨，虽然《Erewhon》受到了如此热烈的欢迎，但我后来的书几乎都是胎死腹中。他说，“你忘记了《Erewhon》所具有的一种魅力，而你的其他书却没有这种魅力。”我问什么？ ”并回答说：“一个新的声音，一个未知的声音。

The first edition of ‘Erewhon’ sold in about three weeks; I had not taken moulds, and as the demand was strong, it was set up again immediately. I made a few unimportant alterations and additions, and added a Preface, of which I cannot say that I am particularly proud, but an inexperienced writer with a head somewhat turned by unexpected success is not to be trusted with a preface. I made a few further very trifling alterations before moulds were taken, but since the summer of 1872, as new editions were from time to time wanted, they have been printed from stereos then made.
《Erewhon》第一版在大约三周内售出；我没有拿模具，由于需求旺盛，所以立即重新搭建。我做了一些不重要的修改和补充，并添加了序言，我不能说我对此感到特别自豪，但是一个缺乏经验的作家，因意外的成功而有些转变，是不值得相信序言的。在制作模具之前，我又做了一些非常细微的修改，但自 1872 年夏天以来，由于不时需要新版本，它们都是从立体声音响中打印出来然后制作的。

Having now, I fear, at too great length done what I was asked to do, I should like to add a few words on my own account. I am still fairly well satisfied with those parts of ‘Erewhon’ that were repeatedly rewritten, but from those that had only a single writing I would gladly cut out some forty or fifty pages if I could.
我担心，现在我已经完成了太多我被要求做的事情，我想为自己补充几句话。我对《Erewhon》中那些被反复重写的部分仍然相当满意，但如果可以的话，我很乐意从那些只有单一文字的部分中删掉四十或五十页。

This, however, may not be, for the copyright will probably expire in a little over twelve years. It was necessary, therefore, to revise the book throughout for literary inelegancies—of which I found many more than I had expected—and also to make such substantial additions as should secure a new lease of life—at any rate for the copyright. If, then, instead of cutting out, say fifty pages, I have been compelled to add about sixty invita Minerva—the blame rests neither with my publisher nor with me, but with the copyright laws. Nevertheless I can assure the reader that, though I have found it an irksome task to take up work which I thought I had got rid of thirty years ago, and much of which I am ashamed of, I have done my best to make the new matter savour so much of the better portions of the old, that none but the best critics shall perceive at what places the gaps of between thirty and forty years occur.
然而，情况可能并非如此，因为版权可能会在十二年多一点后到期。因此，有必要对这本书进行通篇修改，以消除文学上的不雅之处——我发现其中的内容比我预期的要多得多——并且还需要进行大量的补充，以确保新的生命——至少是为了版权。那么，如果我没有删掉，比如五十页，而是被迫添加了大约六十页，那么，责任既不在于我的出版商，也不在于我，而在于版权法。尽管如此，我可以向读者保证，虽然我发现继续从事三十年前我认为已经摆脱的工作是一项令人厌烦的任务，而且我对此感到羞耻，但我已经尽了最大努力去创造新的工作。旧书的精华部分如此之多，除了最优秀的批评家之外，没有人能够察觉到三十到四十年之间的差距出现在什么地方。

Lastly, if my readers note a considerable difference between the literary technique of ‘Erewhon’ and that of ‘Erewhon Revisited,’ I would remind them that, as I have just shown, ‘Erewhon’ look something like ten years in writing, and even so was written with great difficulty, while ‘Erewhon Revisited’ was written easily between November 1900 and the end of April 1901. There is no central idea underlying ‘Erewhon,’ whereas the attempt to realise the effect of a single supposed great miracle dominates the whole of its successor. In ‘Erewhon’ there was hardly any story, and little attempt to give life and individuality to the characters; I hope that in ‘Erewhon Revisited’ both these defects have been in great measure avoided. ‘Erewhon’ was not an organic whole, ‘Erewhon Revisited’ may fairly claim to be one. Nevertheless, though in literary workmanship I do not doubt that this last-named book is an improvement on the first, I shall be agreeably surprised if I am not told that ‘Erewhon,’ with all its faults, is the better reading of the two.
最后，如果我的读者注意到《Erewhon》和《Erewhon重访》的文学技巧之间存在相当大的差异，我会提醒他们，正如我刚才所示，《Erewhon》看起来像是十年的写作，甚至因此，《Erewhon Revisited》是在 1900 年 11 月至 1901 年 4 月之间写成的，而《Erewhon Revisited》则很容易写成。《Erewhon》没有什么中心思想，而试图实现一个所谓的伟大奇迹的效果则主导了《Erewhon》。其后继者的全部。在《Erewhon》中，几乎没有任何故事，也很少尝试赋予角色生命和个性。我希望在《Erewhon Revisited》中，这两个缺陷都可以在很大程度上避免。 “Erewhon”并不是一个有机整体，“Erewhon Revisited”可以说是一个有机整体。尽管如此，虽然在文学创作上，我不怀疑这最后一本书比第一本书有所进步，但如果我没有被告知《Erewhon》虽然有种种缺点，但它是两本书中更好的读物，我会感到惊讶。 。

SAMUEL BUTLER.
塞缪尔·巴特勒。

August 7, 1901
1901 年 8 月 7 日

CHAPTER I: WASTE LANDS
第一章：荒地

If the reader will excuse me, I will say nothing of my antecedents, nor of the circumstances which led me to leave my native country; the narrative would be tedious to him and painful to myself. Suffice it, that when I left home it was with the intention of going to some new colony, and either finding, or even perhaps purchasing, waste crown land suitable for cattle or sheep farming, by which means I thought that I could better my fortunes more rapidly than in England.
如果读者愿意的话，我不会提及我的经历，也不会提及导致我离开祖国的情况。这样的叙述对他来说会很乏味，对我自己来说也会很痛苦。够了，当我离开家的时候，我的目的是去一些新的殖民地，或者寻找，甚至可能购买适合养牛或羊的荒地，通过这种方式，我认为我可以改善我的命运比英国更快。

It will be seen that I did not succeed in my design, and that however much I may have met with that was new and strange, I have been unable to reap any pecuniary advantage.
将会看到，我的设计并没有成功，无论我遇到了多少新奇的东西，我都无法获得任何金钱上的好处。

It is true, I imagine myself to have made a discovery which, if I can be the first to profit by it, will bring me a recompense beyond all money computation, and secure me a position such as has not been attained by more than some fifteen or sixteen persons, since the creation of the universe. But to this end I must possess myself of a considerable sum of money: neither do I know how to get it, except by interesting the public in my story, and inducing the charitable to come forward and assist me. With this hope I now publish my adventures; but I do so with great reluctance, for I fear that my story will be doubted unless I tell the whole of it; and yet I dare not do so, lest others with more means than mine should get the start of me. I prefer the risk of being doubted to that of being anticipated, and have therefore concealed my destination on leaving England, as also the point from which I began my more serious and difficult journey.
确实，我想象自己已经有了一个发现，如果我能成为第一个从中获利的人，它将给我带来超出所有金钱计算的回报，并确保我获得一个只有某些人才能获得的职位。自宇宙诞生以来，有十五或十六个人。但为了这个目的，我必须拥有一大笔钱：我也不知道如何得到它，除非让公众对我的故事感兴趣，并诱导慈善机构出面帮助我。带着这样的希望，我现在出版我的冒险经历；但我非常不情愿地这样做，因为我担心除非我讲述全部故事，否则我的故事会受到怀疑。但我不敢这样做，免得比我更有手段的人对我下手。我更喜欢被怀疑的风险，而不是被期待的风险，因此隐瞒了我离开英国的目的地，以及我开始我更严肃和艰难的旅程的起点。

My chief consolation lies in the fact that truth bears its own impress, and that my story will carry conviction by reason of the internal evidences for its accuracy. No one who is himself honest will doubt my being so.
我主要的安慰在于，事实本身就有其印记，而我的故事将因其内部证据的准确性而令人信服。任何一个诚实的人都不会怀疑我的诚实。

I reached my destination in one of the last months of 1868, but I dare not mention the season, lest the reader should gather in which hemisphere I was. The colony was one which had not been opened up even to the most adventurous settlers for more than eight or nine years, having been previously uninhabited, save by a few tribes of savages who frequented the seaboard. The part known to Europeans consisted of a coast-line about eight hundred miles in length (affording three or four good harbours), and a tract of country extending inland for a space varying from two to three hundred miles, until it a reached the offshoots of an exceedingly lofty range of mountains, which could be seen from far out upon the plains, and were covered with perpetual snow. The coast was perfectly well known both north and south of the tract to which I have alluded, but in neither direction was there a single harbour for five hundred miles, and the mountains, which descended almost into the sea, were covered with thick timber, so that none would think of settling.
我在 1868 年的最后几个月到达了目的地，但我不敢提及那个季节，以免读者猜出我在哪个半球。这个殖民地已经八九年多了，甚至没有向最有冒险精神的定居者开放，因为除了一些经常在海边出没的野蛮人部落外，此前一直无人居住。欧洲人所知道的部分包括一条大约八百英里长的海岸线（可提供三到四个良好的港口），以及一片向内陆延伸的乡村，面积从两到三百英里不等，直到到达支流。一座极其高耸的山脉，从远处的平原上就可以看到，而且终年被积雪覆盖。我所提到的那片地区的北部和南部海岸都是众所周知的，但是在这两个方向上五百英里都没有一个港口，而几乎伸入大海的山脉覆盖着厚厚的木材，这样就没有人会想到解决。

With this bay of land, however, the case was different. The harbours were sufficient; the country was timbered, but not too heavily; it was admirably suited for agriculture; it also contained millions on millions of acres of the most beautifully grassed country in the world, and of the best suited for all manner of sheep and cattle. The climate was temperate, and very healthy; there were no wild animals, nor were the natives dangerous, being few in number and of an intelligent tractable disposition.
然而，对于这片土地来说，情况就不同了。港口充足；这片土地树木茂盛，但并不算茂密；它非常适合农业；它还拥有数百万英亩的世界上最美丽的草地，最适合各种羊和牛的生长。气候温和，非常健康。这里没有野生动物，当地人也不危险，数量很少，而且性格聪明驯服。

It may be readily understood that when once Europeans set foot upon this territory they were not slow to take advantage of its capabilities. Sheep and cattle were introduced, and bred with extreme rapidity; men took up their 50,000 or 100,000 acres of country, going inland one behind the other, till in a few years there was not an acre between the sea and the front ranges which was not taken up, and stations either for sheep or cattle were spotted about at intervals of some twenty or thirty miles over the whole country. The front ranges stopped the tide of squatters for some little time; it was thought that there was too much snow upon them for too many months in the year,—that the sheep would get lost, the ground being too difficult for shepherding,—that the expense of getting wool down to the ship’s side would eat up the farmer’s profits,—and that the grass was too rough and sour for sheep to thrive upon; but one after another determined to try the experiment, and it was wonderful how successfully it turned out. Men pushed farther and farther into the mountains, and found a very considerable tract inside the front range, between it and another which was loftier still, though even this was not the highest, the great snowy one which could be seen from out upon the plains. This second range, however, seemed to mark the extreme limits of pastoral country; and it was here, at a small and newly founded station, that I was received as a cadet, and soon regularly employed. I was then just twenty-two years old.
不难理解，当欧洲人踏上这片领土后，他们就毫不犹豫地利用了它的能力。羊和牛被引入并以极快的速度繁殖。人们占领了五万或十万英亩的土地，一个接一个地向内陆进发，直到几年后，大海和前线山脉之间没有一英亩未被占领，并且发现了羊或牛的驻地在整个国家大约每隔二十或三十英里。前面的山脉暂​​时阻止了占屋者的浪潮。人们认为，一年中有太多个月，那里的雪太多了——羊群会迷路，地面太难放牧——把羊毛运到船边的费用会被吃光。农民的利润，——而且草太粗糙、太酸，羊无法在其中茁壮成长；但一个又一个决定尝试这个实验，结果令人惊奇地成功了。人们向山里推进得越来越远，在前面的山脉内发现了一块非常大的土地，在它和另一个更高的山脉之间，尽管这还不是最高的，从平原上可以看到的大雪山。然而，第二个范围似乎标志着田园乡村的极限。正是在这里，在一个新成立的小车站，我被接纳为一名学员，并很快就正式就业。那时我才二十二岁。

I was delighted with the country and the manner of life. It was my daily business to go up to the top of a certain high mountain, and down one of its spurs on to the flat, in order to make sure that no sheep had crossed their boundaries. I was to see the sheep, not necessarily close at hand, nor to get them in a single mob, but to see enough of them here and there to feel easy that nothing had gone wrong; this was no difficult matter, for there were not above eight hundred of them; and, being all breeding ewes, they were pretty quiet.
我对这个国家和生活方式很满意。我每天的工作就是爬上一座高山的山顶，然后从山坡上爬到平坦的地方，以确保没有羊越过边界。我要看到羊群，不一定要近在咫尺，也不一定要把它们聚集成一群，而是要在这里那里看到足够多的羊，这样我就会感到轻松，没有任何问题；这并不困难，因为他们的人数不超过八百。而且，由于都是正在繁殖的母羊，它们非常安静。

There were a good many sheep which I knew, as two or three black ewes, and a black lamb or two, and several others which had some distinguishing mark whereby I could tell them. I would try and see all these, and if they were all there, and the mob looked large enough, I might rest assured that all was well. It is surprising how soon the eye becomes accustomed to missing twenty sheep out of two or three hundred. I had a telescope and a dog, and would take bread and meat and tobacco with me. Starting with early dawn, it would be night before I could complete my round; for the mountain over which I had to go was very high. In winter it was covered with snow, and the sheep needed no watching from above. If I were to see sheep dung or tracks going down on to the other side of the mountain (where there was a valley with a stream—a mere cul de sac), I was to follow them, and look out for sheep; but I never saw any, the sheep always descending on to their own side, partly from habit, and partly because there was abundance of good sweet feed, which had been burnt in the early spring, just before I came, and was now deliciously green and rich, while that on the other side had never been burnt, and was rank and coarse.
有很多我认识的羊，有两三只黑色母羊，一两只黑色羔羊，还有其他几只，它们有一些明显的标记，我可以通过这些标记来区分它们。我会尝试看看所有这些，如果它们都在那里，而且暴民看起来足够大，我可以放心，一切都很好。令人惊讶的是，眼睛很快就习惯了在两三百只羊中错过二十只。我有一架望远镜和一只狗，还会随身携带面包、肉和烟草。从黎明开始，直到晚上我才能完成这一轮；因为我要翻越的山非常高。冬天，这里被雪覆盖，羊群不需要从上面看。如果我看到羊粪或脚印一直延伸到山的另一边（那里有一个有溪流的山谷——只是一条死胡同），我就跟着它们，留意羊群；但我从来没见过，羊群总是向自己这边走去，部分是出于习惯，部分是因为这里有充足的优质甜饲料，这些饲料在我来之前的早春时就被烧焦了，现在已经绿油油的了。很丰富，而另一边则从未被烧过，而且肮脏而粗糙。

It was a monotonous life, but it was very healthy and one does not much mind anything when one is well. The country was the grandest that can be imagined. How often have I sat on the mountain side and watched the waving downs, with the two white specks of huts in the distance, and the little square of garden behind them; the paddock with a patch of bright green oats above the huts, and the yards and wool-sheds down on the flat below; all seen as through the wrong end of a telescope, so clear and brilliant was the air, or as upon a colossal model or map spread out beneath me. Beyond the downs was a plain, going down to a river of great size, on the farther side of which there were other high mountains, with the winter’s snow still not quite melted; up the river, which ran winding in many streams over a bed some two miles broad, I looked upon the second great chain, and could see a narrow gorge where the river retired and was lost. I knew that there was a range still farther back; but except from one place near the very top of my own mountain, no part of it was visible: from this point, however, I saw, whenever there were no clouds, a single snow-clad peak, many miles away, and I should think about as high as any mountain in the world. Never shall I forget the utter loneliness of the prospect— only the little far-away homestead giving sign of human handiwork;the vastness of mountain and plain, of river and sky; the marvellous atmospheric effects—sometimes black mountains against a white sky, and then again, after cold weather, white mountains against a black sky—sometimes seen through breaks and swirls of cloud—and sometimes, which was best of all, I went up my mountain in a fog, and then got above the mist; going higher and higher, I would look down upon a sea of whiteness, through which would be thrust innumerable mountain tops that looked like islands.
生活很单调，但是很健康，身体好的时候什么都不在意。这个国家是可以想象的最宏伟的国家。我有多少次坐在山边，看着起伏的丘陵，远处有两座白色的小屋，后面是小广场的花园；围场里，小屋上方有一片亮绿色的燕麦，下面的平地上是院子和羊毛棚；一切都像是通过望远镜的错误一端看到的，空气是如此清澈明亮，或者就像在我下方铺开的巨大模型或地图上一样。丘陵之外是一片平原，一直延伸到一条大河，河的另一边还有其他高山，冬天的积雪还没有完全融化。这条河在宽约两英里的河床上蜿蜒流淌，蜿蜒流淌，我看着第二条大链，可以看到一条狭窄的峡谷，河水在那里退缩并消失了。我知道更远的地方还有一段距离。但是，除了靠近我自己的山顶的一个地方之外，它的任何部分都看不见：然而，从这一点上，每当没有云彩时，我就会看到一座白雪覆盖的山峰，在许多英里之外，我应该想象一下与世界上任何一座山一样高。 我永远不会忘记前景中的彻底孤独——只有遥远的小农庄显示出人类的手工劳动；广阔的山脉和平原，河流和天空；奇妙的大气效应——有时是黑色的山脉映衬着白色的天空，然后，寒冷的天气过后，白色的山脉映衬着黑色的天空——有时透过云的间隙和漩涡看到——有时，最棒的是，我山在雾里，然后又到了雾气之上；越走越高，我俯视一片白色的海洋，其中有无数像岛屿一样的山峰。

I am there now, as I write; I fancy that I can see the downs, the huts, the plain, and the river-bed—that torrent pathway of desolation, with its distant roar of waters. Oh, wonderful! wonderful! so lonely and so solemn, with the sad grey clouds above, and no sound save a lost lamb bleating upon the mountain side, as though its little heart were breaking. Then there comes some lean and withered old ewe, with deep gruff voice and unlovely aspect, trotting back from the seductive pasture; now she examines this gully, and now that, and now she stands listening with uplifted head, that she may hear the distant wailing and obey it. Aha! they see, and rush towards each other. Alas! they are both mistaken; the ewe is not the lamb’s ewe, they are neither kin nor kind to one another, and part in coldness. Each must cry louder, and wander farther yet; may luck be with them both that they may find their own at nightfall. But this is mere dreaming, and I must proceed.
正如我所写的，我现在就在那里；我想象着我能看到丘陵、小屋、平原和河床——那条荒凉的激流小道，远处有水流的咆哮。哦，太棒了！精彩的！如此孤独，如此庄严，头顶是悲伤的灰云，除了一只迷路的羔羊在山边咩咩地叫之外，没有任何声音，仿佛它小小的心正在破碎。这时，有一只瘦弱、枯萎的老母羊，声音粗哑，样子不可爱，从诱人的牧场小跑回来。她时而审视这条沟壑，时而审视那条沟壑，时而抬起头站着倾听，这样她就能听到远处的哀号并服从它。啊哈！他们看到了，并冲向对方。唉!他们都错了；母羊不是羔羊的母羊，它们互不相亲，互不友善，彼此冷漠。每个人都必须哭得更大声，走得更远；愿他们俩都能幸运地在夜幕降临时找到属于自己的。但这只是梦想，我必须继续前进。

I could not help speculating upon what might lie farther up the river and behind the second range. I had no money, but if I could only find workable country, I might stock it with borrowed capital, and consider myself a made man. True, the range looked so vast, that there seemed little chance of getting a sufficient road through it or over it; but no one had yet explored it, and it is wonderful how one finds that one can make a path into all sorts of places (and even get a road for pack-horses), which from a distance appear inaccessible; the river was so great that it must drain an inner tract—at least I thought so; and though every one said it would be madness to attempt taking sheep farther inland, I knew that only three years ago the same cry had been raised against the country which my master’s flock was now overrunning. I could not keep these thoughts out of my head as I would rest myself upon the mountain side; they haunted me as I went my daily rounds, and grew upon me from hour to hour, till I resolved that after shearing I would remain in doubt no longer, but saddle my horse, take as much provision with me as I could, and go and see for myself.
我忍不住猜测河流上游和第二个山脉后面可能有什么。我没有钱，但如果我能找到可行的国家，我可能会用借来的资金来储备它，并认为自己是一个成功的人。诚然，这片范围看起来如此广阔，似乎几乎没有机会找到足够的道路穿过它或越过它。但还没有人探索过它，令人惊奇的是，人们发现可以开辟一条通往各种地方的道路（甚至为驮马开辟一条道路），而从远处看，这些地方似乎难以到达；这条河太大了，一定会排干内部区域——至少我是这么认为的。虽然每个人都说试图把羊带到更远的内陆地区是疯狂的，但我知道，就在三年前，同样的呼声也曾针对我主人的羊群现在正在侵占的国家。当我在山边休息时，我无法将这些想法从脑海中抹去。当我每天巡视时，它们一直困扰着我，并且随着时间的推移，越来越困扰着我，直到我决定剪羊毛后，我将不再怀疑，而是给我的马配鞍，尽可能多地携带食物，然后出发亲自看看。

But over and above these thoughts came that of the great range itself. What was beyond it? Ah! who could say? There was no one in the whole world who had the smallest idea, save those who were themselves on the other side of it—if, indeed, there was any one at all. Could I hope to cross it? This would be the highest triumph that I could wish for; but it was too much to think of yet. I would try the nearer range, and see how far I could go. Even if I did not find country, might I not find gold, or diamonds, or copper, or silver? I would sometimes lie flat down to drink out of a stream, and could see little yellow specks among the sand; were these gold? People said no; but then people always said there was no gold until it was found to be abundant: there was plenty of slate and granite, which I had always understood to accompany gold; and even though it was not found in paying quantities here, it might be abundant in the main ranges. These thoughts filled my head, and I could not banish them.
但除了这些想法之外，还有大范围本身的想法。除此之外还有什么？啊!谁能说呢？全世界没有人有哪怕一丁点的想法，除了那些站在想法另一边的人——如果确实有的话。我能希望跨越它吗？这将是我所希望的最高胜利；但现在想起来实在太多了。我会尝试更近的范围，看看我能走多远。即使我找不到国家，难道我就找不到金子、钻石、铜、银吗？有时我会平躺着喝小溪里的水，可以看到沙子里有黄色的小斑点。这些是金子吗？人们说不；但后来人们总是说没有黄金，直到发现黄金丰富为止：有大量的板岩和花岗岩，我一直认为它们与黄金相伴；尽管这里没有发现它的数量，但它在主要范围内可能很丰富。这些想法充斥着我的脑海，我无法驱逐它们。

CHAPTER II: IN THE WOOL-SHED
第二章：在羊毛棚里

At last shearing came; and with the shearers there was an old native, whom they had nicknamed Chowbok—though, I believe, his real name was Kahabuka. He was a sort of chief of the natives, could speak a little English, and was a great favourite with the missionaries. He did not do any regular work with the shearers, but pretended to help in the yards, his real aim being to get the grog, which is always more freely circulated at shearing-time: he did not get much, for he was apt to be dangerous when drunk; and very little would make him so: still he did get it occasionally, and if one wanted to get anything out of him, it was the best bribe to offer him. I resolved to question him, and get as much information from him as I could. I did so. As long as I kept to questions about the nearer ranges, he was easy to get on with—he had never been there, but there were traditions among his tribe to the effect that there was no sheep-country, nothing, in fact, but stunted timber and a few river-bed flats. It was very difficult to reach; still there were passes: one of them up our own river, though not directly along the river-bed, the gorge of which was not practicable; he had never seen any one who had been there: was there to not enough on this side? But when I came to the main range, his manner changed at once. He became uneasy, and began to prevaricate and shuffle. In a very few minutes I could see that of this too there existed traditions in his tribe; but no efforts or coaxing could get a word from him about them. At last I hinted about grog, and presently he feigned consent: I gave it him; but as soon as he had drunk it he began shamming intoxication, and then went to sleep, or pretended to do so, letting me kick him pretty hard and never budging.
剪毛终于来了；和剪羊毛的人在一起的还有一位老当地人，他们给他起了个绰号“乔博克”——不过，我相信他的真名是卡哈布卡。他是当地人的酋长，会说一点英语，很受传教士的喜爱。他没有和剪羊毛的人一起做任何常规工作，而是假装在院子里帮忙，他的真正目的是得到熟料，在剪羊毛的时候，这种熟料总是更自由地流通：他没有得到太多，因为他倾向于醉酒时有危险；几乎没有什么能让他如此：尽管如此，他偶尔还是会得到它，如果有人想从他身上得到什么，向他提供贿赂是最好的。我决定询问他，并从他那里获取尽可能多的信息。我就这么做了。只要我不断询问有关较近山脉的问题，他就很容易相处——他从未去过那里，但他的部落有一个传统，大意是那里没有羊群，事实上什么也没有，但是发育不良的木材和一些河床平地。到达那里非常困难；仍然有一些通道：其中一个通道位于我们自己的河流上，尽管不是直接沿着河床，因为峡谷不可行；他从来没有见过任何人去过那里：这一边的人还不够多吗？但当我来到主靶场时，他的态度立刻就变了。他变得不安起来，开始搪塞、拖拖拉拉。几分钟之内，我就发现他的部落也有这样的传统。但不管他怎么努力，怎么哄，都无法从他嘴里得到关于他们的任何消息。最后我暗示要喝烈酒，不久他假装同意了：我给了他；我给了他。但他一喝下去，就开始假装喝醉了，然后睡着了，或者假装睡着了，让我用力踢他，一动也不动。

I was angry, for I had to go without my own grog and had got nothing out of him; so the next day I determined that he should tell me before I gave him any, or get none at all.
我很生气，因为我不得不带着自己的烈酒走，而且从他那里什么也没得到。所以第二天我决定在我给他任何东西之前他应该告诉我，或者根本不给他。

Accordingly, when night came and the shearers had knocked off work and had their supper, I got my share of rum in a tin pannikin and made a sign to Chowbok to follow me to the wool-shed, which he willingly did, slipping out after me, and no one taking any notice of either of us. When we got down to the wool-shed we lit a tallow candle, and having stuck it in an old bottle we sat down upon the wool bales and began to smoke. A wool-shed is a roomy place, built somewhat on the same plan as a cathedral, with aisles on either side full of pens for the sheep, a great nave, at the upper end of which the shearers work, and a further space for wool sorters and packers. It always refreshed me with a semblance of antiquity (precious in a new country), though I very well knew that the oldest wool-shed in the settlement was not more than seven years old, while this was only two. Chowbok pretended to expect his grog at once, though we both of us knew very well what the other was after, and that we were each playing against the other, the one for grog the other for information.
因此，当夜幕降临，剪羊毛工们下班吃晚饭时，我在一个锡锅里拿到了我那份朗姆酒，并向乔博克做了个手势，让他跟着我去羊毛棚，他很乐意这么做，然后就溜了出去。我，没有人注意到我们俩。当我们到达羊毛棚时，我们点燃了一根牛脂蜡烛，把它插在一个旧瓶子里，我们坐在羊毛捆上开始抽烟。羊毛棚是一个宽敞的地方，建在与大教堂相同的平面上，两侧的过道都堆满了羊圈，一个巨大的中殿，剪羊毛工在其上端工作，还有一个更远的空间供剪羊毛的人工作。羊毛分拣机和包装机。它总是让我感到一种古老的感觉（在一个新的国家很珍贵），尽管我很清楚，定居点里最古老的羊毛棚不超过七年，而这只有两年。乔博克假装立即期待他的烈酒，尽管我们都非常清楚对方在追求什么，而且我们都在与对方比赛，一个为了烈酒，另一个为了获取信息。

We had a hard fight: for more than two hours he had tried to put me off with lies but had carried no conviction; during the whole time we had been morally wrestling with one another and had neither of us apparently gained the least advantage; at length, however, I had become sure that he would give in ultimately, and that with a little further patience I should get his story out of him. As upon a cold day in winter, when one has churned (as I had often had to do), and churned in vain, and the butter makes no sign of coming, at last one tells by the sound that the cream has gone to sleep, and then upon a sudden the butter comes, so I had churned at Chowbok until I perceived that he had arrived, as it were, at the sleepy stage, and that with a continuance of steady quiet pressure the day was mine. On a sudden, without a word of warning, he rolled two bales of wool (his strength was very great) into the middle of the floor, and on the top of these he placed another crosswise; he snatched up an empty wool-pack, threw it like a mantle over his shoulders, jumped upon the uppermost bale, and sat upon it. In a moment his whole form was changed. His high shoulders dropped; he set his feet close together, heel to heel and toe to toe; he laid his arms and hands close alongside of his body, the palms following his thighs; he held his head high but quite straight, and his eyes stared right in front of him; but he frowned horribly, and assumed an expression of face that was positively fiendish. At the best of times Chowbok was very ugly, but he now exceeded all conceivable limits of the hideous. His mouth extended almost from ear to ear, grinning horribly and showing all his teeth; his eyes glared, though they remained quite fixed, and his forehead was contracted with a most malevolent scowl.
我们进行了一场艰苦的斗争：两个多小时里，他试图用谎言来拖延我，但没有任何说服力；在整个过程中，我们一直在道德上互相角力，但我们显然都没有获得哪怕一丁点好处。然而，最后我确信他最终会屈服，只要再多一点耐心，我就能从他嘴里说出他的故事。就像冬天寒冷的一天，当人们搅拌（正如我经常不得不做的那样），并且徒劳地搅拌，黄油没有出现的迹象时，最后人们通过声音告诉人们奶油已经进入休眠状态，然后突然黄油来了，所以我搅拌了乔博克，直到我意识到他已经到达了，可以说，进入了昏昏欲睡的阶段，并且在持续稳定的安静压力下，这一天是我的。突然，他没有任何警告，将两包羊毛（他的力气很大）滚到了地板中央，并在上面交叉放置了另一包羊毛；他抓起一个空羊毛包，把它像斗篷一样扔到肩上，跳到最上面的草捆上，坐在上面。刹那间，他的整个身形都变了。他高耸的肩膀垂了下来；他把双脚并拢，脚跟对脚跟，脚趾对脚趾。他将手臂和手放在身体旁边，手掌放在大腿上。他昂首挺胸，但目光挺直，眼睛直视前方。但他却皱着眉头，表情十分凶恶。乔博克在最好的时候是非常丑陋的，但现在他已经超出了所有可以想象的丑陋极限。 他的嘴几乎从一只耳朵延伸到另一只耳朵，咧着嘴笑得很可怕，露出了所有的牙齿。他的眼睛怒目而视，但仍然一动不动，额头紧皱，表情极其恶毒。

I am afraid my description will have conveyed only the ridiculous side of his appearance; but the ridiculous and the sublime are near, and the grotesque fiendishness of Chowbok’s face approached this last, if it did not reach it. I tried to be amused, but I felt a sort of creeping at the roots of my hair and over my whole body, as I looked and wondered what he could possibly be intending to signify. He continued thus for about a minute, sitting bolt upright, as stiff as a stone, and making this fearful face. Then there came from his lips a low moaning like the wind, rising and falling by infinitely small gradations till it became almost a shriek, from which it descended and died away; after that, he jumped down from the bale and held up the extended fingers of both his hands, as one who should say ‘Ten,’ though I did not then understand him.
恐怕我的描述只能传达出他外表可笑的一面；但荒谬与崇高已经临近，乔博克那张怪诞而凶恶的脸，即使还没有到达，也已经接近最后了。我试图感到好笑，但当我看着他并想知道他可能想表达什么意思时，我感到一种毛骨悚然的感觉在我的发根和全身蔓延。他这样持续了大约一分钟，笔直地坐着，像石头一样僵硬，脸上露出恐惧的表情。然后，从他的嘴唇里发出一声低沉的呻吟，像风一样，以无限小的层次升起和落下，直到几乎变成尖叫声，从那里它下降并消失；然后，他从草捆上跳下来，伸出双手伸出的手指，就像一个应该说“十”的人，尽管我当时听不懂他的话。

For myself I was open-mouthed with astonishment. Chowbok rolled the bales rapidly into their place, and stood before me shuddering as in great fear; horror was written upon his face—this time quite involuntarily—as though the natural panic of one who had committed an awful crime against unknown and superhuman agencies. He nodded his head and gibbered, and pointed repeatedly to the mountains. He would not touch the grog, but, after a few seconds he made a run through the wool-shed door into the moonlight; nor did he reappear till next day at dinner-time, when he turned up, looking very sheepish and abject in his civility towards myself.
就我自己而言，我惊讶得张大了嘴巴。乔博克迅速将草捆滚回原处，站在我面前，浑身发抖，仿佛非常害怕。他的脸上写满了恐惧——这一次是不自觉的——就好像一个人对未知的超人机构犯下了可怕的罪行一样，自然而然地惊慌失措。他点点头，胡言乱语，反复指着山。他不愿碰烈酒，但几秒钟后，他跑进了羊毛棚的门，跑到了月光下。直到第二天晚餐时他才再次出现，当他出现时，他对我的礼貌显得非常羞怯和卑鄙。

Of his meaning I had no conception. How could I? All I could feel sure of was, that he had a meaning which was true and awful to himself. It was enough for me that I believed him to have given me the best he had and all he had. This kindled my imagination more than if he had told me intelligible stories by the hour together. I knew not what the great snowy ranges might conceal, but I could no longer doubt that it would be something well worth discovering.
我对他的意思一无所知。我怎么能？我唯一能确定的是，他的意思是真实的，但对他自己来说却是可怕的。对我来说，我相信他已经给了我他所拥有的最好的和他所拥有的一切，这就足够了。这比他一起按小时给我讲易懂的故事更能激发我的想象力。我不知道这片大雪山里可能隐藏着什么，但我不再怀疑这将是非常值得发现的东西。

I kept aloof from Chowbok for the next few days, and showed no desire to question him further; when I spoke to him I called him Kahabuka, which gratified him greatly: he seemed to have become afraid of me, and acted as one who was in my power. Having therefore made up my mind that I would begin exploring as soon as shearing was over, I thought it would be a good thing to take Chowbok with me; so I told him that I meant going to the nearer ranges for a few days’ prospecting, and that he was to come too. I made him promises of nightly grog, and held out the chances of finding gold. I said nothing about the main range, for I knew it would frighten him. I would get him as far up our own river as I could, and trace it if possible to its source. I would then either go on by myself, if I felt my courage equal to the attempt, or return with Chowbok. So, as soon as ever shearing was over and the wool sent off, I asked leave of absence, and obtained it. Also, I bought an old pack-horse and pack-saddle, so that I might take plenty of provisions, and blankets, and a small tent. I was to ride and find fords over the river; Chowbok was to follow and lead the pack-horse, which would also carry him over the fords. My master let me have tea and sugar, ship’s biscuits, tobacco, and salt mutton, with two or three bottles of good brandy; for, as the wool was now sent down, abundance of provisions would come up with the empty drays.
接下来的几天里，我对乔博克保持着疏远，也没有表现出进一步询问他的欲望。当我和他说话时，我称他为卡哈布卡，这让他非常高兴：他似乎变得害怕我，表现得像一个在我权力范围内的人。因此，我决定剪羊毛一结束就开始探索，我认为带着乔博克一起去是件好事；于是我告诉他，我打算去更近的山脉进行几天的勘探，他也要去。我向他许诺每晚都会喝烈酒，并提出寻找金子的机会。我没有提及主要范围，因为我知道这会吓到他。我会尽可能把他带到我们自己的河流上游，如果可能的话，追踪它的源头。如果我觉得自己有足够的勇气，我要么自己继续，要么带着乔博克回来。因此，剪羊毛一结束，羊毛被送走，我就请了假，并得到了批准。另外，我还买了一匹旧驮马和驮鞍，这样我就可以带足够的食物、毯子和一个小帐篷。我要骑马寻找渡口，过河；乔博克将跟随并领导驮马，驮马也将载着他越过浅滩。主人让我吃茶、糖、船上饼干、烟草、盐羊肉，还有两三瓶上好的白兰地；因为，当羊毛被运下来时，大量的粮食就会用空车运来。

Everything being now ready, all the hands on the station turned out to see us off, and we started on our journey, not very long after the summer solstice of 1870.
现在一切准备就绪，车站的所有工作人员都出来为我们送行，我们开始了我们的旅程，那是 1870 年夏至过后不久。

CHAPTER III: UP THE RIVER
第三章：逆流而上

The first day we had an easy time, following up the great flats by the river side, which had already been twice burned, so that there was no dense undergrowth to check us, though the ground was often rough, and we had to go a good deal upon the riverbed. Towards nightfall we had made a matter of some five-and-twenty miles, and camped at the point where the river entered upon the gorge.
第一天我们过得很轻松，沿着河边的大平地走，那里已经被烧过两次了，所以没有茂密的灌木丛来阻挡我们，尽管地面常常崎岖不平，我们不得不走一圈。河床上很划算。夜幕降临时，我们走了大约五二十英里，在河流流入峡谷的地方扎营。

The weather was delightfully warm, considering that the valley in which we were encamped must have been at least two thousand feet above the level of the sea. The river-bed was here about a mile and a half broad and entirely covered with shingle over which the river ran in many winding channels, looking, when seen from above, like a tangled skein of ribbon, and glistening in the sun. We knew that it was liable to very sudden and heavy freshets; but even had we not known it, we could have seen it by the snags of trees, which must have been carried long distances, and by the mass of vegetable and mineral debris which was banked against their lower side, showing that at times the whole river-bed must be covered with a roaring torrent many feet in depth and of ungovernable fury. At present the river was low, there being but five or six streams, too deep and rapid for even a strong man to ford on foot, but to be crossed safely on horseback. On either side of it there were still a few acres of flat, which grew wider and wider down the river, till they became the large plains on which we looked from my master’s hut. Behind us rose the lowest spurs of the second range, leading abruptly to the range itself; and at a distance of half a mile began the gorge, where the river narrowed and became boisterous and terrible. The beauty of the scene cannot be conveyed in language. The one side of the valley was blue with evening shadow, through which loomed forest and precipice, hillside and mountain top; and the other was still brilliant with the sunset gold. The wide and wasteful river with its ceaseless rushing—the beautiful water-birds too, which abounded upon the islets and were so tame that we could come close up to them—the ineffable purity of the air—the solemn peacefulness of the untrodden region—could there be a more delightful and exhilarating combination?
考虑到我们扎营的山谷至少海拔两千英尺，天气温暖得令人愉快。这里的河床大约有一英里半宽，完全覆盖着卵石，河流在河床上蜿蜒流过许多河道，从上面看去，就像一团缠结的丝带，在阳光下闪闪发光。我们知道它很容易遭受突然而猛烈的寒冷天气。但即使我们不知道这一点，我们也可以通过树木的断枝看到它，这些树木一定是被运送了很长的距离，并且通过堆积在其下侧的大量蔬菜和矿物碎片，表明有时整个河床必定被汹涌的、深达数英尺、狂怒的激流所覆盖。现在河水很低，只有五六条小溪，又深又急，即使是一个强壮的人也无法步行涉水，只能骑马安全地渡过。两边还有几英亩的平地，顺着河往下越来越宽，最后变成了我们从主人的小屋里看到的大片平原。我们身后升起第二个山脉的最低支线，突然通向山脉本身。距离半英里处，峡谷开始了，河水变窄，变得汹涌而可怕。场景之美是无法用语言来表达的。山谷的一侧是蓝色的夕影，透过阴影隐约可见森林和悬崖、山坡和山顶；另一个依然闪耀着夕阳般的金色。 宽阔而荒芜的河流，不停地奔流——还有美丽的水鸟，它们在岛屿上繁衍生息，它们是如此驯服，我们可以靠近它们——空气难以言喻的纯净——人迹罕至的地区庄严的宁静——还有比这更令人愉快和兴奋的组合吗？

We set about making our camp, close to some large bush which came down from the mountains on to the flat, and tethered out our horses upon ground as free as we could find it from anything round which they might wind the rope and get themselves tied up. We dared not let them run loose, lest they might stray down the river home again. We then gathered wood and lit the fire. We filled a tin pannikin with water and set it against the hot ashes to boil. When the water boiled we threw in two or three large pinches of tea and let them brew.
我们开始扎营，靠近一些从山上延伸到平坦的大灌木丛，把我们的马拴在我们能找到的尽可能自由的地面上，他们可以把绳子缠绕在地上，把自己绑起来。向上。我们不敢让他们跑了，免得他们又顺河而下回家了。然后我们收集木头并生火。我们在一个锡锅里装满水，然后把它放在热灰烬上煮沸。当水沸腾时，我们放入两到三大撮茶，让它们冲泡。

We had caught half a dozen young ducks in the course of the day—an easy matter, for the old birds made such a fuss in attempting to decoy us away from them—pretending to be badly hurt as they say the plover does—that we could always find them by going about in the opposite direction to the old bird till we heard the young ones crying: then we ran them down, for they could not fly though they were nearly full grown. Chowbok plucked them a little and singed them a good deal. Then we cut them up and boiled them in another pannikin, and this completed our preparations.
一天之内，我们抓到了六只小鸭子——这很容易，因为老鸟们大惊小怪地试图引诱我们远离它们——假装受了重伤，就像他们所说的鸻一样——我们我们总能找到它们，只要沿着与老鸟相反的方向走，直到我们听到幼鸟的哭声：然后我们把它们追下来，因为它们虽然已经快成年了，但还不会飞。乔博克把它们拔了一点，然后把它们烧焦了。然后我们把它们切碎，放在另一个锅里煮，这就完成了我们的准备工作。

When we had done supper it was quite dark. The silence and freshness of the night, the occasional sharp cry of the wood-hen, the ruddy glow of the fire, the subdued rushing of the river, the sombre forest, and the immediate foreground of our saddles packs and blankets, made a picture worthy of a Salvator Rosa or a Nicolas Poussin. I call it to mind and delight in it now, but I did not notice it at the time. We next to never know when we are well off: but this cuts two ways,—for if we did, we should perhaps know better when we are ill off also; and I have sometimes thought that there are as many ignorant of the one as of the other. He who wrote, ‘O fortunatos nimium sua si bona norint agricolas,’ might have written quite as truly, ‘O infortunatos nimium sua si mala norint”; and there are few of us who are not protected from the keenest pain by our inability to see what it is that we have done, what we are suffering, and what we truly are. Let us be grateful to the mirror for revealing to us our appearance only.
当我们吃完晚饭时，天已经完全黑了。夜晚的寂静和清新，母鸡偶尔发出的尖锐叫声，火光的红润，河水的湍急，阴郁的森林，以及我们的马鞍包和毯子的直接前景，构成了一幅画面配得上萨尔瓦多·罗莎或尼古拉斯·普桑。我现在想起它并乐在其中，但当时我没有注意到。我们几乎永远不知道我们什么时候富裕：但这有两个途径，因为如果我们知道，我们也许应该更好地知道我们什么时候也富裕；有时我想，对其中一者一无所知的人和对另一者一无所知的人一样多。写下“Ofortunatos nimium sua si bonanorint agricolas”的人可能也同样真实地写出“O infortunatos nimium sua si malanorint”；我们当中很少有人不因无法看清我们做了什么、我们正在受苦以及我们真正是谁而遭受最剧烈的痛苦。让我们感谢镜子只向我们揭示我们的外表。

We found as soft a piece of ground as we could—though it was all stony—and having collected grass and so disposed of ourselves that we had a little hollow for our hip-bones, we strapped our blankets around us and went to sleep. Waking in the night I saw the stars overhead and the moonlight bright upon the mountains. The river was ever rushing; I heard one of our horses neigh to its companion, and was assured that they were still at hand; I had no care of mind or body, save that I had doubtless many difficulties to overcome; there came upon me a delicious sense of peace, a fulness of contentment which I do not believe can be felt by any but those who have spent days consecutively on horseback, or at any rate in the open air.
我们找到了一块尽可能松软的土地——尽管全是石头——然后收集了草，把自己处理掉，让我们的髋骨有了一点空洞，我们把毯子裹在身上，然后就去睡觉了。夜里醒来，我看到头顶上的星星和山上明亮的月光。河水永远汹涌澎湃；我听到我们的一匹马向它的同伴嘶鸣，并确信它们就在附近。我的身心都无忧无虑，除了毫无疑问我还有许多困难需要克服。我感到一种美妙的平静感，一种完全的满足感，我相信除了那些连续几天骑在马背上或至少在露天的人之外，任何人都无法感受到这种感觉。

Next morning we found our last night’s tea-leaves frozen at the bottom of the pannikins, though it was not nearly the beginning of autumn; we breakfasted as we had supped, and were on our way by six o’clock. In half an hour we had entered the gorge, and turning round a corner we bade farewell to the last sight of my master’s country.
第二天早上，我们发现昨晚的茶叶冻在了面包的底部，尽管当时还没有到立秋的时候。我们像吃晚饭一样吃早餐，六点钟就上路了。半个小时后，我们进入了峡谷，转过一个拐角，我们就告别了我主人的祖国的最后一眼。

The gorge was narrow and precipitous; the river was now only a few yards wide, and roared and thundered against rocks of many tons in weight; the sound was deafening, for there was a great volume of water. We were two hours in making less than a mile, and that with danger, sometimes in the river and sometimes on the rock. There was that damp black smell of rocks covered with slimy vegetation, as near some huge waterfall where spray is ever rising. The air was clammy and cold. I cannot conceive how our horses managed to keep their footing, especially the one with the pack, and I dreaded the having to return almost as much as going forward. I suppose this lasted three miles, but it was well midday when the gorge got a little wider, and a small stream came into it from a tributary valley. Farther progress up the main river was impossible, for the cliffs descended like walls; so we went up the side stream, Chowbok seeming to think that here must be the pass of which reports existed among his people. We now incurred less of actual danger but more fatigue, and it was only after infinite trouble, owing to the rocks and tangled vegetation, that we got ourselves and our horses upon the saddle from which this small stream descended; by that time clouds had descended upon us, and it was raining heavily. Moreover, it was six o’clock and we were tired out, having made perhaps six miles in twelve hours.
峡谷狭窄而险峻。河水现在只有几码宽，在重达数吨的岩石上咆哮、轰鸣。声音震耳欲聋，因为有大量的水。我们花了两个小时才走了不到一英里，而且充满危险，有时在河里，有时在岩石上。岩石上覆盖着粘稠的植被，散发着潮湿的黑色气味，就像在某个巨大的瀑布附近，水花不断升腾。空气又湿又冷。我无法想象我们的马是如何站稳脚跟的，尤其是那匹带着狼群的马，我害怕返回，就像害怕前进一样。我想这持续了三英里，但已经是中午了，峡谷变得更宽了，一条小溪从支流山谷流入了峡谷。沿着主河继续前进是不可能的，因为悬崖像墙壁一样向下延伸。于是我们顺着小溪而上，乔博克似乎认为这里一定是他的族人中流传过的通行证。现在，我们遇到的实际危险减少了，但更加疲劳了，由于岩石和纠结的植被，经过无限的麻烦，我们才把自己和我们的马放在这条小溪流下的马鞍上。那时，乌云降临在我们身上，还下着倾盆大雨。而且，当时已经是六点钟了，我们在十二个小时内走了大约六英里，已经筋疲力尽了。

On the saddle there was some coarse grass which was in full seed, and therefore very nourishing for the horses; also abundance of anise and sow-thistle, of which they are extravagantly fond, so we turned them loose and prepared to camp. Everything was soaking wet and we were half-perished with cold; indeed we were very uncomfortable. There was brushwood about, but we could get no fire till we had shaved off the wet outside of some dead branches and filled our pockets with the dry inside chips. Having done this we managed to start a fire, nor did we allow it to go out when we had once started it; we pitched the tent and by nine o’clock were comparatively warm and dry. Next morning it was fine; we broke camp, and after advancing a short distance we found that, by descending over ground less difficult than yesterday’s, we should come again upon the river-bed, which had opened out above the gorge; but it was plain at a glance that there was no available sheep country, nothing but a few flats covered with scrub on either side the river, and mountains which were perfectly worthless. But we could see the main range. There was no mistake about this. The glaciers were tumbling down the mountain sides like cataracts, and seemed actually to descend upon the river-bed; there could be no serious difficulty in reaching them by following up the river, which was wide and open; but it seemed rather an objectless thing to do, for the main range looked hopeless, and my curiosity about the nature of the country above the gorge was now quite satisfied; there was no money in it whatever, unless there should be minerals, of which I saw no more signs than lower down.
马鞍上有一些粗草，种子饱满，对马来说非常有营养。还有大量的茴香和母猪蓟，它们非常喜欢，所以我们把它们放了出来，准备扎营。一切都湿透了，我们冻得半死。确实我们感到非常不舒服。周围有灌木丛，但我们无法生火，除非我们刮掉一些枯枝外面的湿气，并在口袋里装满干燥的内部碎片。做到这一点后，我们成功地生了火，而且一旦生了火，我们也不会让火熄灭；我们支起帐篷，到了九点钟，天气就相对温暖干燥了。第二天早上天气很好；我们离开了营地，前进了一小段距离后，我们发现，下降的地面比昨天的难度要小一些，我们应该会再次来到河床上，河床已经在峡谷上方打开了。但一看就知道，没有可用的羊场，只有河两岸几片长满灌木丛的平地和完全不值钱的山。但我们可以看到主要范围。这一点没有错误。冰川像瀑布一样从山坡上滚落下来，似乎真的落在了河床上。顺着河流而行，到达他们那里不会有太大的困难，因为河流又宽又开阔。但这似乎是一件毫无目的的事情，因为主要山脉看起来毫无希望，而我对峡谷上方乡村性质的好奇心现在已经得到了满足。里面根本就没有钱，除非有矿产，而我除了在下面没有看到任何矿产的迹象。

However, I resolved that I would follow the river up, and not return until I was compelled to do so. I would go up every branch as far as I could, and wash well for gold. Chowbok liked seeing me do this, but it never came to anything, for we did not even find the colour. His dislike of the main range appeared to have worn off, and he made no objections to approaching it. I think he thought there was no danger of my trying to cross it, and he was not afraid of anything on this side; besides, we might find gold. But the fact was that he had made up his mind what to do if he saw me getting too near it.
不过，我决定顺着河往上走，直到迫不得已才返回。我会尽我所能地爬上每一个树枝，好好淘金。乔博克喜欢看到我这样做，但从来没有任何结果，因为我们甚至没有找到颜色。他对主山脉的厌恶似乎已经消失，并且他并不反对接近它。我想他认为我试图穿越它不会有危险，而且他并不害怕这一边的任何东西；此外，我们可能会找到黄金。但事实是，他已经下定决心，如果他看到我离它太近了该怎么办。

We passed three weeks in exploring, and never did I find time go more quickly. The weather was fine, though the nights got very cold. We followed every stream but one, and always found it lead us to a glacier which was plainly impassable, at any rate without a larger party and ropes. One stream remained, which I should have followed up already, had not Chowbok said that he had risen early one morning while I was yet asleep, and after going up it for three or four miles, had seen that it was impossible to go farther. I had long ago discovered that he was a great liar, so I was bent on going up myself: in brief, I did so: so far from being impossible, it was quite easy travelling; and after five or six miles I saw a saddle at the end of it, which, though covered deep in snow, was not glaciered, and which did verily appear to be part of the main range itself. No words can express the intensity of my delight. My blood was all on fire with hope and elation; but on looking round for Chowbok, who was behind me, I saw to my surprise and anger that he had turned back, and was going down the valley as hard as he could. He had left me.
我们花了三个星期的时间进行探索，我从来没有发现时间过得这么快。天气很好，虽然夜晚很冷。我们沿着除了一条以外的每一条溪流，总是发现它把我们引向一座冰川，这显然是无法通过的，至少没有更大的队伍和绳索。还剩下一条小溪，我本来应该顺着这条小溪走下去的，要不是乔博克说有一天早上我还在睡觉时他就起床了，顺着小溪走了三四英里之后，发现已经不可能再走得更远了。我早就发现他是个大骗子，所以我一心要自己上去：简而言之，我这样做了：远非不可能，而且旅行很容易；五六英里后，我看到山的尽头有一个马鞍，虽然被厚厚的积雪覆盖，但没有被冰川覆盖，而且确实看起来是主山脉本身的一部分。没有任何言语可以表达我的喜悦之情。我的血液因希望和兴高采烈而燃烧；但当我环顾四周寻找我身后的乔博克时，我惊讶又愤怒地发现他已经转身，正竭尽全力地走下山谷。他已经离开我了。

CHAPTER IV: THE SADDLE
第四章：马鞍

I cooeyed to him, but he would not hear. I ran after him, but he had got too good a start. Then I sat down on a stone and thought the matter carefully over. It was plain that Chowbok had designedly attempted to keep me from going up this valley, yet he had shown no unwillingness to follow me anywhere else. What could this mean, unless that I was now upon the route by which alone the mysteries of the great ranges could be revealed? What then should I do? Go back at the very moment when it had become plain that I was on the right scent? Hardly; yet to proceed alone would be both difficult and dangerous. It would be bad enough to return to my master’s run, and pass through the rocky gorges, with no chance of help from another should I get into a difficulty; but to advance for any considerable distance without a companion would be next door to madness. Accidents which are slight when there is another at hand (as the spraining of an ankle, or the falling into some place whence escape would be easy by means of an outstretched hand and a bit of rope) may be fatal to one who is alone. The more I pondered the less I liked it; and yet, the less could I make up my mind to return when I looked at the saddle at the head of the valley, and noted the comparative ease with which its smooth sweep of snow might be surmounted: I seemed to see my way almost from my present position to the very top. After much thought, I resolved to go forward until I should come to some place which was really dangerous, but then to return. I should thus, I hoped, at any rate reach the top of the saddle, and satisfy myself as to what might be on the other side.
我对他撒娇，但他不听。我追赶他，但他的起步太好了。然后我坐在一块石头上，仔细地想了想。很明显，乔博克故意阻止我上这个山谷，但他并没有表现出不愿意跟随我去其他地方。这意味着什么，除非我现在正走在一条可以揭示大山脉之谜的道路上？那我该怎么办呢？当我明显感觉到我闻到了正确的气味时，就回去吧？几乎不;但单独前进既困难又危险。如果我再回到主人的跑道上，穿过岩石峡谷，万一遇到困难，没有机会得到别人的帮助，那已经够糟糕的了；但在没有同伴的情况下前进任何相当长的距离都近乎疯狂。当身边有另一个人时，一些轻微的事故（例如脚踝扭伤，或者跌入某个地方，只要伸出一只手和一根绳子就可以轻松逃生），对于一个人来说可能是致命的。我越想越不喜欢它；然而，当我看着山谷顶端的马鞍，并注意到可以相对轻松地克服其平滑的积雪时，我更加无法决定返回：我似乎几乎从那里看到了我的路。我现在的位置是最高的。想了想，我决定继续往前走，直到到达真正危险的地方，然后再返回。因此，我希望，无论如何，我应该到达马鞍的顶部，并对另一边可能发生的事情感到满意。

I had no time to lose, for it was now between ten and eleven in the morning. Fortunately I was well equipped, for on leaving the camp and the horses at the lower end of the valley I had provided myself (according to my custom) with everything that I was likely to want for four or five days. Chowbok had carried half, but had dropped his whole swag—I suppose, at the moment of his taking flight—for I came upon it when I ran after him. I had, therefore, his provisions as well as my own. Accordingly, I took as many biscuits as I thought I could carry, and also some tobacco, tea, and a few matches. I rolled all these things (together with a flask nearly full of brandy, which I had kept in my pocket for fear lest Chowbok should get hold of it) inside my blankets, and strapped them very tightly, making the whole into a long roll of some seven feet in length and six inches in diameter. Then I tied the two ends together, and put the whole round my neck and over one shoulder. This is the easiest way of carrying a heavy swag, for one can rest one’s self by shifting the burden from one shoulder to the other. I strapped my pannikin and a small axe about my waist, and thus equipped began to ascend the valley, angry at having been misled by Chowbok, but determined not to return till I was compelled to do so.
我不能再浪费时间了，因为现在是上午十点到十一点之间。幸运的是，我装备精良，因为在离开山谷低端的营地和马匹时，我为自己准备了（根据我的习惯）四五天内我可能需要的一切。乔博克带着一半，但把他的全部赃物都扔掉了——我想是在他起飞的那一刻——因为我在追赶他时发现了它。因此，我既有他的规定，也有我自己的规定。因此，我带了尽可能多的饼干，还有一些烟草、茶和一些火柴。我把所有这些东西（还有一个几乎装满白兰地的烧瓶，我把它放在口袋里，以免乔博克抓住它）卷进毯子里，然后把它们绑得很紧，把它们整个卷成一长卷。长约七英尺，直径约六英寸。然后我把两端绑在一起，把整个挂在脖子上和肩膀上。这是携带重物的最简单方法，因为可以通过将负担从一个肩膀转移到另一个肩膀来让自己休息。我把我的面包袋和一把小斧头绑在腰上，这样装备好了，我开始爬上山谷，我对被乔博克误导感到愤怒，但决定在不得已的情况下不再返回。

I crossed and recrossed the stream several times without difficulty, for there were many good fords. At one o’clock I was at the foot of the saddle; for four hours I mounted, the last two on the snow, where the going was easier; by five, I was within ten minutes of the top, in a state of excitement greater, I think, than I had ever known before. Ten minutes more, and the cold air from the other side came rushing upon me.
我毫无困难地渡过了又重新渡过这条小溪，因为那里有很多好的浅滩。一点钟我就到了马鞍脚下；我骑了四个小时，最后两个小时在雪地上，这样走起来更容易。到五点的时候，我距离山顶不到十分钟，我想，我的兴奋状态比我以前所知道的还要强烈。又过了十分钟，对岸的冷空气迎面扑来。

A glance. I was NOT on the main range.
一眼。我不在主要范围内。

Another glance. There was an awful river, muddy and horribly angry, roaring over an immense riverbed, thousands of feet below me.
再看一眼。有一条可怕的河流，泥泞而可怕，在我下方数千英尺的巨大河床上咆哮。

It went round to the westward, and I could see no farther up the valley, save that there were enormous glaciers which must extend round the source of the river, and from which it must spring.
它向西流去，我再也看不到山谷的上方了，除了河源周围一定有巨大的冰川，河水也一定是从那里涌出来的。

Another glance, and then I remained motionless.
我又看了一眼，然后就一动不动了。

There was an easy pass in the mountains directly opposite to me, through which I caught a glimpse of an immeasurable extent of blue and distant plains.
正对着我的山里有一个容易的山口，透过它我瞥见了无边无际的蓝色和遥远的平原。

Easy? Yes, perfectly easy; grassed nearly to the summit, which was, as it were, an open path between two glaciers, from which an inconsiderable stream came tumbling down over rough but very possible hillsides, till it got down to the level of the great river, and formed a flat where there was grass and a small bush of stunted timber.
简单的？是的，非常简单；几乎长满了山顶的草丛，可以说是两座冰川之间的一条开阔的小路，一条微不足道的溪流从这里流过崎岖但很有可能的山坡，直到它下降到大河的水平，形成一条平坦的地方有草和一小丛发育不良的木材。

Almost before I could believe my eyes, a cloud had come up from the valley on the other side, and the plains were hidden. What wonderful luck was mine! Had I arrived five minutes later, the cloud would have been over the pass, and I should not have known of its existence. Now that the cloud was there, I began to doubt my memory, and to be uncertain whether it had been more than a blue line of distant vapour that had filled up the opening. I could only be certain of this much, namely, that the river in the valley below must be the one next to the northward of that which flowed past my master’s station; of this there could be no doubt. Could I, however, imagine that my luck should have led me up a wrong river in search of a pass, and yet brought me to the spot where I could detect the one weak place in the fortifications of a more northern basin? This was too improbable. But even as I doubted there came a rent in the cloud opposite, and a second time I saw blue lines of heaving downs, growing gradually fainter, and retiring into a far space of plain. It was substantial; there had been no mistake whatsoever. I had hardly made myself perfectly sure of this, ere the rent in the clouds joined up again and I could see nothing more.
几乎在我不敢相信自己的眼睛之前，一朵云从另一边的山谷升起，平原消失了。我的运气真是太好了！如果我晚五分钟到达，云就会在山口上空，我就不会知道它的存在。现在云就在那里，我开始怀疑我的记忆，并不确定它是否不仅仅是填充了开口的一条蓝色的远处蒸汽线。我只能确定这一点，那就是，下面山谷里的那条河一定是流过我主人驻地的那条河的北边的那条河；而下面的那条河一定是那条流过我主人驻地的那条河的北边的那条河。这是毫无疑问的。然而，我是否可以想象，我的运气应该把我带到一条错误的河流去寻找通道，却又把我带到了一个可以发现更北部盆地防御工事的薄弱环节的地方？这太不可能了。但正当我怀疑的时候，对面的云层出现了裂缝，我第二次看到了蓝色的起伏线条，逐渐变暗，最后隐入远处的平原。这是很重要的；没有任何错误。我还没完全确定这一点，云层的裂缝就再次聚集起来，我什么也看不见了。

What, then, should I do? The night would be upon me shortly, and I was already chilled with standing still after the exertion of climbing. To stay where I was would be impossible; I must either go backwards or forwards. I found a rock which gave me shelter from the evening wind, and took a good pull at the brandy flask, which immediately warmed and encouraged me.
那我该怎么办呢？夜色即将降临，爬完高山后，我已经站着不动了，浑身发冷。留在原地是不可能的；我必须要么向后走，要么向前走。我找到了一块可以遮挡晚风的岩石，用力拉了拉白兰地酒瓶，酒瓶立刻温暖了我，鼓舞了我。

I asked myself, Could I descend upon the river-bed beneath me? It was impossible to say what precipices might prevent my doing so. If I were on the river-bed, dare I cross the river? I am an excellent swimmer, yet, once in that frightful rush of waters, I should be hurled whithersoever it willed, absolutely powerless. Moreover, there was my swag; I should perish of cold and hunger if I left it, but I should certainly be drowned if I attempted to carry it across the river. These were serious considerations, but the hope of finding an immense tract of available sheep country (which I was determined that I would monopolise as far as I possibly could) sufficed to outweigh them; and, in a few minutes, I felt resolved that, having made so important a discovery as a pass into a country which was probably as valuable as that on our own side of the ranges, I would follow it up and ascertain its value, even though I should pay the penalty of failure with life itself. The more I thought, the more determined I became either to win fame and perhaps fortune, by entering upon this unknown world, or give up life in the attempt. In fact, I felt that life would be no longer valuable if I were to have seen so great a prize and refused to grasp at the possible profits therefrom.
我问自己，我能降落在我下面的河床上吗？很难说有什么困难会阻止我这样做。如果我在河床上，我敢过河吗？我是一名优秀的游泳运动员，然而，一旦进入那可怕的汹涌的水域，我就会被抛到任何地方，完全无能为力。而且，还有我的赃物；如果我离开它，我会被冻饿而死，但如果我试图把它带过河，我肯定会被淹死。这些都是严肃的考虑，但找到一大片可用的羊群的希望（我决心尽可能地垄断它）足以压倒它们；几分钟后，我就下定决心，既然有了如此重要的发现，就像进入一个国家的通行证一样，这个国家的价值可能与我们这边的山脉一样有价值，我将跟踪它并确定它的价值，甚至尽管我应该用生命本身来支付失败的惩罚。我想得越多，我就越坚定，要么通过进入这个未知的世界来赢得名誉，或许还有财富，要么放弃生命。事实上，我觉得，如果我看到了如此巨大的奖品，却拒绝抓住从中可能获得的利润，那么生命就不再有价值了。

I had still an hour of good daylight during which I might begin my descent on to some suitable camping-ground, but there was not a moment to be lost. At first I got along rapidly, for I was on the snow, and sank into it enough to save me from falling, though I went forward straight down the mountain side as fast as I could; but there was less snow on this side than on the other, and I had soon done with it, getting on to a coomb of dangerous and very stony ground, where a slip might have given me a disastrous fall. But I was careful with all my speed, and got safely to the bottom, where there were patches of coarse grass, and an attempt here and there at brushwood: what was below this I could not see. I advanced a few hundred yards farther, and found that I was on the brink of a frightful precipice, which no one in his senses would attempt descending. I bethought me, however, to try the creek which drained the coomb, and see whether it might not have made itself a smoother way. In a few minutes I found myself at the upper end of a chasm in the rocks, something like Twll Dhu, only on a greatly larger scale; the creek had found its way into it, and had worn a deep channel through a material which appeared softer than that upon the other side of the mountain. I believe it must have been a different geological formation, though I regret to say that I cannot tell what it was.
我还有一个小时的晴天，在此期间我可以开始下降到一些合适的露营地，但不能浪费任何时间。起初，我进展得很快，因为我在雪上，虽然我尽可能快地径直朝山坡下走，但我陷进雪里足以避免摔倒。但这边的雪比那边少，我很快就吃完雪了，来到了一片危险的、多石的地面上，在那里滑倒可能会让我灾难性地摔倒。但我小心翼翼地加快速度，安全地到达了底部，那里有一片片粗草，还时不时地尝试着灌木丛：下面是什么我看不到。我又向前推进了几百码，发现自己正处于一个可怕的悬崖边缘，任何有理智的人都不会尝试下降。然而，我想尝试一下那条排干了库姆的小溪，看看它是否可以使自己变得更平坦。几分钟后，我发现自己来到了岩石裂缝的上端，类似于 Twll Dhu，只是规模要大得多。小溪已经进入其中，并在看起来比山另一边的材料更柔软的材料中磨出了一条很深的通道。我相信它一定是一种不同的地质构造，尽管我遗憾地说我无法说出它是什么。

I looked at this rift in great doubt; then I went a little way on either side of it, and found myself looking over the edge of horrible precipices on to the river, which roared some four or five thousand feet below me. I dared not think of getting down at all, unless I committed myself to the rift, of which I was hopeful when I reflected that the rock was soft, and that the water might have worn its channel tolerably evenly through the whole extent. The darkness was increasing with every minute, but I should have twilight for another half-hour, so I went into the chasm (though by no means without fear), and resolved to return and camp, and try some other path next day, should I come to any serious difficulty. In about five minutes I had completely lost my head; the side of the rift became hundreds of feet in height, and overhung so that I could not see the sky. It was full of rocks, and I had many falls and bruises. I was wet through from falling into the water, of which there was no great volume, but it had such force that I could do nothing against it; once I had to leap down a not inconsiderable waterfall into a deep pool below, and my swag was so heavy that I was very nearly drowned. I had indeed a hair’s-breadth escape; but, as luck would have it, Providence was on my side. Shortly afterwards I began to fancy that the rift was getting wider, and that there was more brushwood. Presently I found myself on an open grassy slope, and feeling my way a little farther along the stream, I came upon a flat place with wood, where I could camp comfortably; which was well, for it was now quite dark.
我带着极大的怀疑看着这条裂痕。然后我在河的两边走了一小段路，发现自己越过了可怕的悬崖边缘，看到了河流，河流在我下方大约四五千英尺处咆哮。我根本不敢想下去，除非我把自己投入到裂缝中，当我想到岩石是软的，而且水可能在整个范围内相当均匀地磨损它的通道时，我对此充满希望。黑暗每分钟都在增加，但我应该还有半个小时的黄昏，所以我走进了裂缝（尽管绝不是没有恐惧），并决定返回并扎营，并在第二天尝试其他路径，如果我遇到任何严重的困难。大约五分钟后，我完全失去了理智。裂缝的一侧变得有数百英尺高，并且悬垂着，所以我看不到天空。那里到处都是石头，我摔倒了很多次，擦伤了很多次。我掉进水里浑身湿透了，水的体积不大，但它的力量如此之大，我无能为力。有一次我不得不从一个不小的瀑布跳进下面的深潭里，我的赃物太重了，差点被淹死。我确实侥幸逃脱了；但幸运的是，普罗维登斯站在我这边。不久之后，我开始觉得裂缝越来越宽，灌木丛也越来越多。不久，我发现自己来到了一片开阔的草坡上，沿着溪流摸索着走远了一点，我来到了一片平坦的地方，那里有木头，我可以在那里舒适地露营。这很好，因为现在天已经黑了。

My first care was for my matches; were they dry? The outside of my swag had got completely wet; but, on undoing the blankets, I found things warm and dry within. How thankful I was! I lit a fire, and was grateful for its warmth and company. I made myself some tea and ate two of my biscuits: my brandy I did not touch, for I had little left, and might want it when my courage failed me. All that I did, I did almost mechanically, for I could not realise my situation to myself, beyond knowing that I was alone, and that return through the chasm which I had just descended would be impossible. It is a dreadful feeling that of being cut off from all one’s kind. I was still full of hope, and built golden castles for myself as soon as I was warmed with food and fire; but I do not believe that any man could long retain his reason in such solitude, unless he had the companionship of animals. One begins doubting one’s own identity.
我首先关心的是我的比赛；它们干吗？我的赃物外面已经完全湿透了；但是，当我解开毯子时，我发现里面温暖而干燥。我多么感激啊！我点燃了火，并感谢它的温暖和陪伴。我给自己泡了些茶，吃了两块饼干：白兰地我没有碰，因为我已经所剩无几了，当我失去勇气时可能会想要它。我所做的一切，我几乎是机械地做的，因为除了知道我独自一人之外，我无法意识到自己的处境，而且通过我刚刚下降的裂缝返回是不可能的。与所有人隔绝是一种可怕的感觉。我仍然充满希望，当我有了食物和火的温暖后，我就为自己建造了金色的城堡；但我不相信任何人能够在如此孤独的环境中长期保持理智，除非有动物作伴。人们开始怀疑自己的身份。

I remember deriving comfort even from the sight of my blankets, and the sound of my watch ticking—things which seemed to link me to other people; but the screaming of the wood-hens frightened me, as also a chattering bird which I had never heard before, and which seemed to laugh at me; though I soon got used to it, and before long could fancy that it was many years since I had first heard it.
我记得，即使是看到我的毯子，听到手表的滴答声，我也感到很安慰——这些东西似乎将我与其他人联系在一起；但是木母鸡的尖叫声让我感到害怕，就像一只我以前从未听过的叽叽喳喳的鸟儿一样，它似乎在嘲笑我。不过我很快就习惯了，而且不久之后我就能想象距离我第一次听到它已经有很多年了。

I took off my clothes, and wrapped my inside blanket about me, till my things were dry. The night was very still, and I made a roaring fire; so I soon got warm, and at last could put my clothes on again. Then I strapped my blanket round me, and went to sleep as near the fire as I could.
我脱掉衣服，用里面的毯子裹住我，直到我的东西都干了。夜很静，我生起了熊熊的火；很快我就暖和起来了，终于可以穿上衣服了。然后我把毯子裹在身上，尽可能靠近火睡觉。

I dreamed that there was an organ placed in my master’s wool-shed: the wool-shed faded away, and the organ seemed to grow and grow amid a blaze of brilliant light, till it became like a golden city upon the side of a mountain, with rows upon rows of pipes set in cliffs and precipices, one above the other, and in mysterious caverns, like that of Fingal, within whose depths I could see the burnished pillars gleaming. In the front there was a flight of lofty terraces, at the top of which I could see a man with his head buried forward towards a key-board, and his body swaying from side to side amid the storm of huge arpeggioed harmonies that came crashing overhead and round. Then there was one who touched me on the shoulder, and said, ‘Do you not see? it is Handel”;—but I had hardly apprehended, and was trying to scale the terraces, and get near him, when I awoke, dazzled with the vividness and distinctness of the dream.
我梦见主人的毛棚里放着一个管风琴，毛棚渐渐消失了，那管风琴在一片灿烂的光芒中似乎越来越大，直到变成一座山边的金城。悬崖峭壁上，一排排的管道，一个接一个，还有神秘的洞穴，就像芬格尔的洞穴一样，在洞穴的深处，我可以看到抛光的柱子闪闪发光。前面是一排高高的露台，在露台的顶部我可以看到一个人，他的头向前埋在键盘上，他的身体在巨大的琶音和声风暴中左右摇摆。头顶和圆形。然后有人拍了拍我的肩膀说：‘你没看到吗？是亨德尔”；——但我几乎没有意识到，正试图爬上露台，靠近他，当我醒来时，梦的生动和清晰让我眼花缭乱。

A piece of wood had burned through, and the ends had fallen into the ashes with a blaze: this, I supposed, had both given me my dream and robbed me of it. I was bitterly disappointed, and sitting up on my elbow, came back to reality and my strange surroundings as best I could.
一块木头被烧穿了，末端随着火焰化为灰烬：我想，这既给了我梦想，又夺走了我的梦想。我非常失望，我用肘部坐了起来，尽我所能回到现实和陌生的环境中。

I was thoroughly aroused—moreover, I felt a foreshadowing as though my attention were arrested by something more than the dream, although no sense in particular was as yet appealed to. I held my breath and waited, and then I heard—was it fancy? Nay; I listened again and again, and I DID hear a faint and extremely distant sound of music, like that of an AEolian harp, borne upon the wind which was blowing fresh and chill from the opposite mountains.
我彻底被唤醒了——此外，我感觉到了一种预感，好像我的注意力被梦之外的东西所吸引，尽管还没有任何特别的感觉。我屏住呼吸等待，然后我听到——很奇特吗？不；我听了一遍又一遍，我确实听到了微弱而遥远的音乐声，就像风琴的声音，被从对面山上吹来的清新而寒冷的风吹来。

The roots of my hair thrilled. I listened, but the wind had died; and, fancying that it must have been the wind itself—no; on a sudden I remembered the noise which Chowbok had made in the wool- shed. Yes; it was that.
我的发根都颤抖起来。我侧耳倾听，风已停；而且，我猜想一定是风本身造成的——不；突然我想起了乔博克在羊毛棚里发出的噪音。是的;就是这样。

Thank Heaven, whatever it was, it was over now. I reasoned with myself, and recovered my firmness. I became convinced that I had only been dreaming more vividly than usual. Soon I began even to laugh, and think what a fool I was to be frightened at nothing, reminding myself that even if I were to come to a bad end it would be no such dreadful matter after all. I said my prayers, a duty which I had too often neglected, and in a little time fell into a really refreshing sleep, which lasted till broad daylight, and restored me. I rose, and searching among the embers of my fire, I found a few live coals and soon had a blaze again. I got breakfast, and was delighted to have the company of several small birds, which hopped about me and perched on my boots and hands. I felt comparatively happy, but I can assure the reader that I had had a far worse time of it than I have told him; and I strongly recommend him to remain in Europe if he can; or, at any rate, in some country which has been explored and settled, rather than go into places where others have not been before him. Exploring is delightful to look forward to and back upon, but it is not comfortable at the time, unless it be of such an easy nature as not to deserve the name.
感谢老天爷，不管发生什么事，现在都结束了。我跟自己讲道理，又恢复了坚定。我开始确信我只是做的梦比平时更加​​生动而已。不久我什至开始笑起来，心想自己真是个傻瓜，竟然什么都害怕，同时提醒自己，即使我的结局很糟糕，也没有那么可怕的事情。我做了祈祷，这是我经常忽视的一项义务，不久我就进入了真正令人神清气爽的睡眠，一直持续到大白天，才让我恢复过来。我站起来，在余烬中寻找，发现了一些生火，很快又生了火。我吃了早餐，很高兴有几只小鸟作伴，它们在我周围跳来跳去，栖息在我的靴子和手上。我感到相对快乐，但我可以向读者保证，我的经历比我告诉他的要糟糕得多；如果可以的话，我强烈建议他留在欧洲；或者，无论如何，去某个已经探索过并定居过的国家，而不是去其他人在他之前没有去过的地方。探索是令人愉快的期待和回顾，但它在当时并不舒服，除非它具有如此简单的性质，不值得被称为“探索”。

CHAPTER V: THE RIVER AND THE RANGE
第五章：河流和山脉

My next business was to descend upon the river. I had lost sight of the pass which I had seen from the saddle, but had made such notes of it that I could not fail to find it. I was bruised and stiff, and my boots had begun to give, for I had been going on rough ground for more than three weeks; but, as the day wore on, and I found myself descending without serious difficulty, I became easier. In a couple of hours I got among pine forests where there was little undergrowth, and descended quickly till I reached the edge of another precipice, which gave me a great deal of trouble, though I eventually managed to avoid it. By about three or four o’clock I found myself on the river-bed.
我的下一个任务是降落到河边。我已经看不到从马鞍上看到的那条山口了，但我记下了它，所以我不可能找不到它。我遍体鳞伤，浑身僵硬，靴子也开始磨损，因为我已经在崎岖不平的地面上行走了三个星期多了。但是，随着时间的流逝，我发现自己下山时没有遇到太大的困难，我变得更容易了。几个小时后，我进入了几乎没有灌木丛的松树林，然后迅速下降，直到到达另一个悬崖的边缘，这给我带来了很大的麻烦，尽管我最终设法避开了它。大约三四点钟的时候，我发现自己已经到了河床上。

From calculations which I made as to the height of the valley on the other side the saddle over which I had come, I concluded that the saddle itself could not be less than nine thousand feet high; and I should think that the river-bed, on to which I now descended, was three thousand feet above the sea-level. The water had a terrific current, with a fall of not less than forty to fifty feet per mile. It was certainly the river next to the northward of that which flowed past my master’s run, and would have to go through an impassable gorge (as is commonly the case with the rivers of that country) before it came upon known parts. It was reckoned to be nearly two thousand feet above the sea-level where it came out of the gorge on to the plains.
根据我对我所经过的马鞍另一侧山谷的高度的计算，我得出结论，马鞍本身的高度不可能低于九千英尺；我想我现在下降到的河床海拔三千英尺。水流湍急，每英里落差不少于四十到五十英尺。这条河肯定是流过我主人的河流的北边的一条河，在到达已知的地方之前必须穿过一个无法通行的峡谷（就像那个国家的河流常见的情况一样）。据估计，它从峡谷延伸到平原的地方海拔近两千英尺。

As soon as I got to the river side I liked it even less than I thought I should. It was muddy, being near its parent glaciers. The stream was wide, rapid, and rough, and I could hear the smaller stones knocking against each other under the rage of the waters, as upon a seashore. Fording was out of the question. I could not swim and carry my swag, and I dared not leave my swag behind me. My only chance was to make a small raft; and that would be difficult to make, and not at all safe when it was made,—not for one man in such a current.
当我到达河边时，我比我想象的更不喜欢它。它很泥泞，靠近它的母冰川。溪流宽阔、湍急、波涛汹涌，我能听到小石头在汹涌的水流中互相撞击的声音，就像在海边一样。弗丁是不可能的。我不会游泳，也不会携带我的赃物，我也不敢把我的赃物留在身后。我唯一的机会就是做一个小木筏；这很难制造，而且制造出来后一点也不安全——对于处于这样的潮流中的人来说更是如此。

As it was too late to do much that afternoon, I spent the rest of it in going up and down the river side, and seeing where I should find the most favourable crossing. Then I camped early, and had a quiet comfortable night with no more music, for which I was thankful, as it had haunted me all day, although I perfectly well knew that it had been nothing but my own fancy, brought on by the reminiscence of what I had heard from Chowbok and by the over- excitement of the preceding evening.
由于那天下午已经太晚了，我无法做太多事情，所以我把剩下的时间都花在河边来回走动，看看在哪里可以找到最有利的渡口。然后我早早扎营，度过了一个安静舒适的夜晚，没有更多的音乐，对此我很感激，因为它一整天都困扰着我，尽管我非常清楚这只是我自己的幻想，是由回忆带来的。我从乔博克那里听到的消息以及前一天晚上的过度兴奋。

Next day I began gathering the dry bloom stalks of a kind of flag or iris-looking plant, which was abundant, and whose leaves, when torn into strips, were as strong as the strongest string. I brought them to the waterside, and fell to making myself a kind of rough platform, which should suffice for myself and my swag if I could only stick to it. The stalks were ten or twelve feet long, and very strong, but light and hollow. I made my raft entirely of them, binding bundles of them at right angles to each other, neatly and strongly, with strips from the leaves of the same plant, and tying other rods across. It took me all day till nearly four o’clock to finish the raft, but I had still enough daylight for crossing, and resolved on doing so at once.
第二天，我开始收集一种像旗子或鸢尾花的植物的干燥花茎，这种植物数量丰富，叶子被撕成条状时，就像最坚固的绳子一样坚固。我把它们带到了水边，开始为自己搭建一个粗糙的平台，只要我能坚持下去，这个平台就足以满足我自己和我的赃物了。茎有十或十二英尺长，非常坚固，但又轻又空心。我完全用它们制作了我的木筏，用同一植物的叶子条将它们以直角整齐而牢固地捆扎在一起，然后将其他杆绑在一起。我花了一整天的时间才把木筏搭完，直到四点钟左右，但我还有足够的时间渡河，所以我决定立即渡河。

I had selected a place where the river was broad and comparatively still, some seventy or eighty yards above a furious rapid. At this spot I had built my raft. I now launched it, made my swag fast to the middle, and got on to it myself, keeping in my hand one of the longest blossom stalks, so that I might punt myself across as long as the water was shallow enough to let me do so. I got on pretty well for twenty or thirty yards from the shore, but even in this short space I nearly upset my raft by shifting too rapidly from one side to the other. The water then became much deeper, and I leaned over so far in order to get the bloom rod to the bottom that I had to stay still, leaning on the rod for a few seconds. Then, when I lifted up the rod from the ground, the current was too much for me and I found myself being carried down the rapid. Everything in a second flew past me, and I had no more control over the raft; neither can I remember anything except hurry, and noise, and waters which in the end upset me. But it all came right, and I found myself near the shore, not more than up to my knees in water and pulling my raft to land, fortunately upon the left bank of the river, which was the one I wanted. When I had landed I found that I was about a mile, or perhaps a little less, below the point from which I started. My swag was wet upon the outside, and I was myself dripping; but I had gained my point, and knew that my difficulties were for a time over. I then lit my fire and dried myself; having done so I caught some of the young ducks and sea- gulls, which were abundant on and near the river-bed, so that I had not only a good meal, of which I was in great want, having had an insufficient diet from the time that Chowbok left me, but was also well provided for the morrow.
我选择了一个河面宽阔且相对平静的地方，距离湍急的急流大约七十或八十码。在这个地方我建造了我的木筏。我现在把它发射出去，把我的赃物快速放到中间，然后自己爬上它，手里拿着一根最长的花茎，这样只要水足够浅，我就可以把自己撑过去。所以。在距离海岸二十或三十码的地方，我进展顺利，但即使在这么短的距离内，我从一侧到另一侧的移动速度太快，差点弄翻了我的木筏。然后水变得更深了，为了把花杆放到水底，我倾身太远，我不得不保持静止，靠在杆上几秒钟。然后，当我从地上举起竿子时，水流对我来说太大了，我发现自己被带到了急流中。一切都在一瞬间从我身边飞过，我再也无法控制木筏了；除了匆忙、噪音和最终让我心烦意乱的水流之外，我什么也记不起来。但一切都很顺利，我发现自己已经靠近岸边了，水深没过膝盖，我把木筏拉到岸边，幸运的是，在河的左岸，这就是我想要的。当我着陆时，我发现我距离出发点大约一英里，或者也许更小一点。我的赃物外面湿漉漉的，我自己也在滴水。但我已经明白了我的意思，并且知道我的困难已经过去了。然后我点燃了火，擦干了身体。这样做之后，我抓到了一些小鸭子和海鸥，它们在河床上和河床附近有很多，这样我不仅能吃到一顿美餐，因为我从前的饮食不足，所以我非常需要一顿美餐。乔博克离开我的那段时间，但也为明天做好了准备。

I thought of Chowbok, and felt how useful he had been to me, and in how many ways I was the loser by his absence, having now to do all sorts of things for myself which he had hitherto done for me, and could do infinitely better than I could. Moreover, I had set my heart upon making him a real convert to the Christian religion, which he had already embraced outwardly, though I cannot think that it had taken deep root in his impenetrably stupid nature. I used to catechise him by our camp fire, and explain to him the mysteries of the Trinity and of original sin, with which I was myself familiar, having been the grandson of an archdeacon by my mother’s side, to say nothing of the fact that my father was a clergyman of the English Church. I was therefore sufficiently qualified for the task, and was the more inclined to it, over and above my real desire to save the unhappy creature from an eternity of torture, by recollecting the promise of St. James, that if any one converted a sinner (which Chowbok surely was) he should hide a multitude of sins. I reflected, therefore, that the conversion of Chowbok might in some degree compensate for irregularities and short-comings in my own previous life, the remembrance of which had been more than once unpleasant to me during my recent experiences.
我想起了乔博克，感觉到他对我有多么有用，在很多方面，我因他的缺席而成为失败者，现在我必须为自己做各种各样的事情，而他迄今为止已经为我做了这些事情，而且可以无限地做比我能做的更好。此外，我一心想让他真正皈依基督教，他表面上已经接受了基督教，尽管我不认为基督教已经在他那难以捉摸的愚蠢本性中扎下了根。我常常在我们的篝火旁给他讲授教义问答，并向他解释三位一体和原罪的奥秘，我自己对这些奥秘很熟悉，因为我是我母亲身边一位副主教的孙子，更不用说这个事实了。我的父亲是英国教会的牧师。因此，我有足够的资格来完成这项任务，并且更愿意这样做，除了我真正的愿望，即通过回忆圣詹姆斯的承诺，将这个不幸的生物从永恒的折磨中拯救出来，如果有人改变一个罪人（乔博克确实是）他应该隐藏许多罪恶。因此，我想到，乔博克的皈依可能在某种程度上弥补了我前世的不规范和缺陷，在我最近的经历中，对这些的记忆不止一次让我感到不愉快。

Indeed, on one occasion I had even gone so far as to baptize him, as well as I could, having ascertained that he had certainly not been both christened and baptized, and gathering (from his telling me that he had received the name William from the missionary) that it was probably the first-mentioned rite to which he had been subjected. I thought it great carelessness on the part of the missionary to have omitted the second, and certainly more important, ceremony which I have always understood precedes christening both in the case of infants and of adult converts; and when I thought of the risks we were both incurring I determined that there should be no further delay. Fortunately it was not yet twelve o’clock, so I baptized him at once from one of the pannikins (the only vessels I had) reverently, and, I trust, efficiently. I then set myself to work to instruct him in the deeper mysteries of our belief, and to make him, not only in name, but in heart a Christian.
事实上，有一次我什至尽我所能为他施洗，因为我确定他肯定没有受过洗礼和洗礼，并且收集（从他告诉我他的名字威廉来自传教士）这可能是他所经历的第一个仪式。我认为传教士遗漏了第二个，当然也是更重要的仪式，这是非常粗心的，我一直认为这个仪式是在婴儿和成年皈依者的洗礼之前进行的。当我想到我们都面临的风险时，我决定不再拖延。幸运的是，当时还不到十二点，所以我立即从其中一个潘尼金（我唯一的器皿）中恭敬地为他施洗，而且我相信，效率很高。然后，我开始努力教导他我们信仰的更深奥秘，并使他不仅在名义上，而且在内心成为一名基督徒。

It is true that I might not have succeeded, for Chowbok was very hard to teach. Indeed, on the evening of the same day that I baptized him he tried for the twentieth time to steal the brandy, which made me rather unhappy as to whether I could have baptized him rightly. He had a prayer-book—more than twenty years old— which had been given him by the missionaries, but the only thing in it which had taken any living hold upon him was the title of Adelaide the Queen Dowager, which he would repeat whenever strongly moved or touched, and which did really seem to have some deep spiritual significance to him, though he could never completely separate her individuality from that of Mary Magdalene, whose name had also fascinated him, though in a less degree.
确实，我可能不会成功，因为乔博克语很难教。确实，就在我给他施洗的当天晚上，他第二十次试图偷白兰地，这让我很不高兴，不知道我能否正确地给他施洗。他有一本祈祷书——已经有二十多年了——是传教士送给他的，但其中唯一对他有任何影响的就是阿德莱德太后的头衔，无论什么时候他都会重复这个头衔。强烈地感动或感动，这对他来说似乎确实具有某种深刻的精神意义，尽管他永远无法将她的个性与抹大拉的玛丽亚完全分开，后者的名字也让他着迷，尽管程度较轻。

He was indeed stony ground, but by digging about him I might have at any rate deprived him of all faith in the religion of his tribe, which would have been half way towards making him a sincere Christian; and now all this was cut off from me, and I could neither be of further spiritual assistance to him nor he of bodily profit to myself: besides, any company was better than being quite alone.
他确实是个石头人，但通过挖掘他，我至少可以剥夺他对他部落宗教的所有信仰，这本来可以使他成为一名真诚的基督徒；现在，这一切都与我隔绝了，我既不能为他提供进一步的精神帮助，也不能为他自己带来身体上的好处：此外，任何陪伴都比完全孤独更好。

I got very melancholy as these reflections crossed me, but when I had boiled the ducks and eaten them I was much better. I had a little tea left and about a pound of tobacco, which should last me for another fortnight with moderate smoking. I had also eight ship biscuits, and, most precious of all, about six ounces of brandy, which I presently reduced to four, for the night was cold.
当这些想法掠过我的脑海时，我感到非常忧郁，但是当我把鸭子煮熟并吃掉后，我的心情好多了。我还剩下一点茶和大约一磅烟草，在适度吸烟的情况下，这应该能让我再坚持两周。我还有八块船饼干，最珍贵的是大约六盎司白兰地，由于夜晚很冷，我很快就减少到了四盎司。

I rose with early dawn, and in an hour I was on my way, feeling strange, not to say weak, from the burden of solitude, but full of hope when I considered how many dangers I had overcome, and that this day should see me at the summit of the dividing range.
黎明时分，我起床了，一个小时后，我就上路了，因为孤独的负担，我感到很奇怪，更不用说是虚弱，但当我想到我已经克服了多少危险，这一天应该看到的时候，我充满了希望。我在分界线的顶峰。

After a slow but steady climb of between three and four hours, during which I met with no serious hindrance, I found myself upon a tableland, and close to a glacier which I recognised as marking the summit of the pass. Above it towered a succession of rugged precipices and snowy mountain sides. The solitude was greater than I could bear; the mountain upon my master’s sheep-run was a crowded thoroughfare in comparison with this sombre sullen place. The air, moreover, was dark and heavy, which made the loneliness even more oppressive. There was an inky gloom over all that was not covered with snow and ice. Grass there was none.
经过三到四个小时的缓慢而稳定的攀登，在此期间我没有遇到任何严重的障碍，我发现自己来到了一个高原上，靠近一座冰川，我认出它标志着山口的顶峰。其上耸立着一连串崎岖的悬崖和白雪皑皑的山坡。孤独超出了我的承受能力。与这个阴暗阴沉的地方相比，我主人羊圈上的那座山是一条拥挤的大道。而且空气又黑又重，让孤独更加压抑。没有被冰雪覆盖的一切都笼罩在一片漆黑的阴暗之中。那里没有草。

Each moment I felt increasing upon me that dreadful doubt as to my own identity—as to the continuity of my past and present existence—which is the first sign of that distraction which comes on those who have lost themselves in the bush. I had fought against this feeling hitherto, and had conquered it; but the intense silence and gloom of this rocky wilderness were too much for me, and I felt that my power of collecting myself was beginning to be impaired.
每时每刻，我都感到对自己的身份——对我过去和现在的存在的连续性——的可怕怀疑越来越强烈，这是那些迷失在丛林中的人分心的第一个迹象。迄今为止，我一直在与这种感觉作斗争，并且已经征服了它。但是这片岩石荒野的极度寂静和阴暗让我难以忍受，我感觉自己的镇定力开始受到削弱。

I rested for a little while, and then advanced over very rough ground, until I reached the lower end of the glacier. Then I saw another glacier, descending from the eastern side into a small lake. I passed along the western side of the lake, where the ground was easier, and when I had got about half way I expected that I should see the plains which I had already seen from the opposite mountains; but it was not to be so, for the clouds rolled up to the very summit of the pass, though they did not overlip it on to the side from which I had come. I therefore soon found myself enshrouded by a cold thin vapour, which prevented my seeing more than a very few yards in front of me. Then I came upon a large patch of old snow, in which I could distinctly trace the half-melted tracks of goats—and in one place, as it seemed to me, there had been a dog following them. Had I lighted upon a land of shepherds? The ground, where not covered with snow, was so poor and stony, and there was so little herbage, that I could see no sign of a path or regular sheep-track. But I could not help feeling rather uneasy as I wondered what sort of a reception I might meet with if I were to come suddenly upon inhabitants. I was thinking of this, and proceeding cautiously through the mist, when I began to fancy that I saw some objects darker than the cloud looming in front of me. A few steps brought me nearer, and a shudder of unutterable horror ran through me when I saw a circle of gigantic forms, many times higher than myself, upstanding grim and grey through the veil of cloud before me.
我休息了一会儿，然后在非常崎岖的地面上前进，直到到达冰川的低端。然后我看到了另一条冰川，从东侧下降到一个小湖中。我沿着湖的西侧走，那里的地面比较平坦，当我走到一半时，我预计我会看到我已经从对面的山上看到的平原；但事实并非如此，因为云层卷到了山口的最高点，尽管它们没有将山口覆盖到我来的一侧。因此，我很快就发现自己被一层寒冷的稀薄蒸汽所笼罩，这让我看不到前方几码之外的东西。然后我来到一大片积雪上，我可以清楚地看到山羊半融化的脚印——在我看来，在一个地方，有一只狗在跟着它们。我是否看到了一片牧羊人的土地？没有被雪覆盖的地面非常贫瘠，多石，牧草也很少，我看不到任何小路或正常的羊群踪迹。但我不禁感到相当不安，因为我想知道如果我突然遇到居民，我会受到什么样的欢迎。我一边这么想着，一边小心翼翼地穿过迷雾，突然觉得自己看到了一些比云更黑的物体在我面前若隐若现。几步让我走近了，当我看到一圈巨大的形体，比我高很多倍，在我面前的云层中直立时，一种无法形容的恐惧颤抖了。

I suppose I must have fainted, for I found myself some time afterwards sitting upon the ground, sick and deadly cold. There were the figures, quite still and silent, seen vaguely through the thick gloom, but in human shape indisputably.
我想我一定是晕倒了，因为过了一会儿我发现自己坐在地上，病态且寒冷。那里有一些人影，一动不动，一言不发，透过浓浓的阴暗，依稀可见，但毫无疑问是人形。

A sudden thought occurred to me, which would have doubtless struck me at once had I not been prepossessed with forebodings at the time that I first saw the figures, and had not the cloud concealed them from me—I mean that they were not living beings, but statues. I determined that I would count fifty slowly, and was sure that the objects were not alive if during that time I could detect no sign of motion.
我突然想到一个想法，如果我第一次看到这些人物时没有预感到不祥的预感，如果不是云层把它们遮住了——我的意思是，它们不是生物，这无疑会立刻让我震惊。 ，而是雕像。我决定慢慢地数到五十，如果在这段时间里我检测不到任何运动的迹象，就确信这些物体没有生命。

How thankful was I when I came to the end of my fifty and there had been no movement!
当我快到五十岁的时候，却没有任何动静，我是多么庆幸啊！

I counted a second time—but again all was still.
我又数了一遍——但一切又恢复了平静。

I then advanced timidly forward, and in another moment I saw that my surmise was correct. I had come upon a sort of Stonehenge of rude and barbaric figures, seated as Chowbok had sat when I questioned him in the wool-shed, and with the same superhumanly malevolent expression upon their faces. They had been all seated, but two had fallen. They were barbarous—neither Egyptian, nor Assyrian, nor Japanese—different from any of these, and yet akin to all. They were six or seven times larger than life, of great antiquity, worn and lichen grown. They were ten in number. There was snow upon their heads and wherever snow could lodge. Each statue had been built of four or five enormous blocks, but how these had been raised and put together is known to those alone who raised them. Each was terrible after a different kind. One was raging furiously, as in pain and great despair; another was lean and cadaverous with famine; another cruel and idiotic, but with the silliest simper that can be conceived—this one had fallen, and looked exquisitely ludicrous in his fall—the mouths of all were more or less open, and as I looked at them from behind, I saw that their heads had been hollowed.
我胆怯地向前走去，过了一会儿我发现我的猜测是正确的。我遇到了一个由粗鲁和野蛮的人物组成的巨石阵，他们的座位就像我在羊毛棚里询问乔博克时所坐的那样，他们的脸上带着同样超人的恶毒表情。他们都已经就座了，但有两个人倒下了。他们是野蛮人——既不是埃及人，也不是亚述人，也不是日本人——与这些人不同，但又相似。它们比真人大六七倍，年代久远，破旧不堪，长满了地衣。他们的人数有十人。他们的头上以及积雪所到之处都积满了雪。每座雕像都是由四五个巨大的石块建造而成，但只有那些建造它们的人才知道它们是如何被建造和组装在一起的。每一种都因不同的类型而变得可怕。一个人怒火中烧，仿佛处于痛苦和绝望之中；另一个则因饥荒而瘦弱而苍白。另一个残忍而愚蠢的人，却带着可以想象到的最愚蠢的傻笑——这个人倒下了，而且他倒下的样子显得极其可笑——所有人的嘴都或多或少地张开了，当我从后面看着他们时，我看到他们的头已被挖空。

I was sick and shivering with cold. Solitude had unmanned me already, and I was utterly unfit to have come upon such an assembly of fiends in such a dreadful wilderness and without preparation. I would have given everything I had in the world to have been back at my master’s station; but that was not to be thought of: my head was failing, and I felt sure that I could never get back alive.
我病了，冷得发抖。孤独已经让我失去了控制，我完全不适合在如此可怕的荒野中毫无准备地遇到这样一群恶魔。为了回到我主人的位置，我愿意付出我所拥有的一切。但这是不应该考虑的：我的头脑正在崩溃，我确信我永远无法活着回来。

Then came a gust of howling wind, accompanied with a moan from one of the statues above me. I clasped my hands in fear. I felt like a rat caught in a trap, as though I would have turned and bitten at whatever thing was nearest me. The wildness of the wind increased, the moans grew shriller, coming from several statues, and swelling into a chorus. I almost immediately knew what it was, but the sound was so unearthly that this was but little consolation. The inhuman beings into whose hearts the Evil One had put it to conceive these statues, had made their heads into a sort of organ- pipe, so that their mouths should catch the wind and sound with its blowing. It was horrible. However brave a man might be, he could never stand such a concert, from such lips, and in such a place. I heaped every invective upon them that my tongue could utter as I rushed away from them into the mist, and even after I had lost sight of them, and turning my head round could see nothing but the storm-wraiths driving behind me, I heard their ghostly chanting, and felt as though one of them would rush after me and grip me in his hand and throttle me.
然后一阵呼啸的风吹来，伴随着我上方的一座雕像的呻吟声。我害怕地紧握双手。我感觉就像一只被困在陷阱中的老鼠，好像我会转身咬离我最近的任何东西。狂风愈加狂野，呻吟声也变得更加尖锐，从几座雕像中传出，并逐渐形成合唱。我几乎立刻就知道那是什么，但声音如此神秘，这并不能带来多少安慰。邪恶之徒将其植入心中以孕育这些雕像的非人类生物，将他们的头做成了一种风琴管，这样他们的嘴就可以捕捉到吹来的风和声音。那太差了。无论一个人多么勇敢，他都无法忍受这样一场音乐会，从这样的嘴里，在这样的地方举行。当我从他们身边冲入迷雾中时，我用舌头所能说出的所有谩骂都堆在他们身上，甚至在我看不见他们之后，我转过头来除了在我身后行驶的风暴幽灵之外什么也看不见，我听到他们幽灵般地吟唱着，感觉好像他们中的一个会追上我，抓住我的手，掐死我。

I may say here that, since my return to England, I heard a friend playing some chords upon the organ which put me very forcibly in mind of the Erewhonian statues (for Erewhon is the name of the country upon which I was now entering). They rose most vividly to my recollection the moment my friend began. They are as follows, and are by the greatest of all musicians:- {2}
我可以在这里说，自从我回到英国后，我听到一位朋友在风琴上演奏一些和弦，这让我非常强烈地想起了埃雷洪尼亚雕像（因为埃雷洪是我现在进入的国家的名称）。当我的朋友开始讲话的那一刻，我的记忆就更加清晰了。它们如下，均由最伟大的音乐家创作：- {2}

[Music score which cannot be reproduced]
[无法复制的乐谱]

CHAPTER VI: INTO EREWHON
第六章：进入埃里洪

And now I found myself on a narrow path which followed a small watercourse. I was too glad to have an easy track for my flight, to lay hold of the full significance of its existence. The thought, however, soon presented itself to me that I must be in an inhabited country, but one which was yet unknown. What, then, was to be my fate at the hands of its inhabitants? Should I be taken and offered up as a burnt-offering to those hideous guardians of the pass? It might be so. I shuddered at the thought, yet the horrors of solitude had now fairly possessed me; and so dazed was I, and chilled, and woebegone, that I could lay hold of no idea firmly amid the crowd of fancies that kept wandering in upon my brain.
现在我发现自己走在一条狭窄的小路上，沿着一条小水道。我很高兴能有一条轻松的飞行路线，能够充分理解它存在的意义。然而，我很快就想到，我一定是在一个有人居住的国家，但却是一个未知的国家。那么，我的命运会落在当地居民的手中吗？我应该被带走并作为燔祭献给那些可怕的关隘守卫吗？可能是这样。我一想到这里就浑身发抖，但孤独的恐惧现在已经完全占据了我的心。我是如此茫然、寒冷、忧郁，以至于在不断在我脑海中徘徊的大量幻想中，我无法牢牢抓住任何想法。

I hurried onward—down, down, down. More streams came in; then there was a bridge, a few pine logs thrown over the water; but they gave me comfort, for savages do not make bridges. Then I had a treat such as I can never convey on paper—a moment, perhaps, the most striking and unexpected in my whole life—the one I think that, with some three or four exceptions, I would most gladly have again, were I able to recall it. I got below the level of the clouds, into a burst of brilliant evening sunshine, I was facing the north-west, and the sun was full upon me. Oh, how its light cheered me! But what I saw! It was such an expanse as was revealed to Moses when he stood upon the summit of Mount Sinai, and beheld that promised land which it was not to be his to enter. The beautiful sunset sky was crimson and gold; blue, silver, and purple; exquisite and tranquillising; fading away therein were plains, on which I could see many a town and city, with buildings that had lofty steeples and rounded domes. Nearer beneath me lay ridge behind ridge, outline behind outline, sunlight behind shadow, and shadow behind sunlight, gully and serrated ravine. I saw large pine forests, and the glitter of a noble river winding its way upon the plains; also many villages and hamlets, some of them quite near at hand; and it was on these that I pondered most. I sank upon the ground at the foot of a large tree and thought what I had best do; but I could not collect myself. I was quite tired out; and presently, feeling warmed by the sun, and quieted, I fell off into a profound sleep.
我赶紧向前走——向下，向下，向下。更多的溪流涌入；然后有一座桥，几根松木扔在水面上。但他们给了我安慰，因为野蛮人不会搭建桥梁。然后我得到了一种我永远无法在纸上表达的享受——也许是我一生中最引人注目和最意想不到的时刻——我认为，除了三四个例外，我最乐意再次拥有的时刻是我能回忆起来。我来到了云层下面，进入了傍晚灿烂的阳光中，我面朝西北，阳光洒满了我的身上。哦，它的光多么让我高兴！但我看到了什么！当摩西站在西奈山顶上，看到那片他不可以进入的应许之地时，他所看到的就是这样一片广阔的土地。美丽的夕阳天空呈现出深红色和金色；蓝色、银色和紫色；精致而宁静；平原渐渐消失，我可以看到平原上有许多城镇和城市，那里的建筑有高耸的尖塔和圆形的圆顶。更靠近我的下方是山脊又是山脊，轮廓是轮廓，阳光是阴影，阴影是阳光，沟壑和锯齿状的峡谷。我看到了大片的松树林，还有一条波光粼粼的高贵河流蜿蜒流过平原。还有许多村庄，其中一些就在附近；我思考最多的正是这些。我一屁股坐在一棵大树脚下的地上，想着我最好做什么；但我无法平静下来。我实在是太累了；不久，我感到阳光温暖，心情平静，陷入了沉睡。

I was awoke by the sound of tinkling bells, and looking up, I saw four or five goats feeding near me. As soon as I moved, the creatures turned their heads towards me with an expression of infinite wonder. They did not run away, but stood stock still, and looked at me from every side, as I at them. Then came the sound of chattering and laughter, and there approached two lovely girls, of about seventeen or eighteen years old, dressed each in a sort of linen gaberdine, with a girdle round the waist. They saw me. I sat quite still and looked at them, dazzled with their extreme beauty. For a moment they looked at me and at each other in great amazement; then they gave a little frightened cry and ran off as hard as they could.
我被叮叮当当的铃声吵醒，抬头一看，我看到四五只山羊在我附近吃草。我一动，那些生物就把头转向我，脸上露出无限惊奇的表情。他们没有逃跑，而是一动不动地站着，从四面八方看着我，就像我看着他们一样。随后传来一阵叽叽喳喳的笑声，迎面走来两个可爱的女孩子，大约十七、十八岁，各穿着一件亚麻华达呢，腰间系着腰带。他们看到了我。我静静地坐着，看着它们，被它们极致的美丽弄得眼花缭乱。一时间，他们惊讶地看着我，又互相看了看。然后他们发出一声惊恐的叫声，拼命地逃跑。

‘So that’s that,’ said I to myself, as I watched them scampering. I knew that I had better stay where I was and meet my fate, whatever it was to be, and even if there were a better course, I had no strength left to take it. I must come into contact with the inhabitants sooner or later, and it might as well be sooner. Better not to seem afraid of them, as I should do by running away and being caught with a hue and cry to-morrow or next day. So I remained quite still and waited. In about an hour I heard distant voices talking excitedly, and in a few minutes I saw the two girls bringing up a party of six or seven men, well armed with bows and arrows and pikes. There was nothing for it, so I remained sitting quite still, even after they had seen me, until they came close up. Then we all had a good look at one another.
“原来如此，”当我看着他们蹦蹦跳跳时，我对自己说。我知道我最好留在原地，迎接我的命运，无论它是什么，即使有更好的道路，我也没有力量接受它。我迟早要和居民接触，而且还不如早点。最好不要显得害怕他们，因为我应该逃跑，明天或后天就会被抓到大声哭喊。所以我一动不动地等待着。大约一个小时后，我听到远处传来兴奋的谈话声，几分钟后，我看到两个女孩带着六七人的队伍，装备齐全，弓箭和长矛。没有什么可以做的，所以我仍然静静地坐着，即使在他们看到我之后，直到他们靠近。然后我们大家都好好地看了对方一眼。

Both the girls and the men were very dark in colour, but not more so than the South Italians or Spaniards. The men wore no trousers, but were dressed nearly the same as the Arabs whom I have seen in Algeria. They were of the most magnificent presence, being no less strong and handsome than the women were beautiful; and not only this, but their expression was courteous and benign. I think they would have killed me at once if I had made the slightest show of violence; but they gave me no impression of their being likely to hurt me so long as I was quiet. I am not much given to liking anybody at first sight, but these people impressed me much more favourably than I should have thought possible, so that I could not fear them as I scanned their faces one after another. They were all powerful men. I might have been a match for any one of them singly, for I have been told that I have more to glory in the flesh than in any other respect, being over six feet and proportionately strong; but any two could have soon mastered me, even were I not so bereft of energy by my recent adventures. My colour seemed to surprise them most, for I have light hair, blue eyes, and a fresh complexion. They could not understand how these things could be; my clothes also seemed quite beyond them. Their eyes kept wandering all over me, and the more they looked the less they seemed able to make me out.
女孩和男人的肤色都很黑，但并不比意大利南部或西班牙人深。这些人没有穿裤子，但穿着几乎和我在阿尔及利亚看到的阿拉伯人一样。他们的风采最为壮丽，强壮、英俊，不亚于那些美丽的女人。不仅如此，他们的表情也彬彬有礼、和蔼可亲。我想，如果我表现出最轻微的暴力行为，他们就会立刻杀了我。但他们并没有给我留下只要我安静就可能伤害我的印象。我不太愿意一见钟情，但这些人给我的印象比我想象的要好得多，所以当我一个接一个地扫视他们的脸时，我不会害怕他们。他们都是有权有势的人。就我个人而言，我可能可以与他们中的任何一个相媲美，因为有人告诉我，我在肉体上比在其他方面更值得夸耀，因为我身高超过六英尺，而且比例强壮；但任何两个人都可以很快掌握我，即使我不是因为最近的冒险而失去了精力。我的肤色似乎最让他们惊讶，因为我有浅色的头发、蓝色的眼睛和清新的肤色。他们无法理解这些事情是怎么发生的；我的衣服似乎也超出了他们的范围。他们的目光不停地在我身上扫来扫去，越看越看不清我。

At last I raised myself upon my feet, and leaning upon my stick, I spoke whatever came into my head to the man who seemed foremost among them. I spoke in English, though I was very sure that he would not understand. I said that I had no idea what country I was in; that I had stumbled upon it almost by accident, after a series of hairbreadth escapes; and that I trusted they would not allow any evil to overtake me now that I was completely at their mercy. All this I said quietly and firmly, with hardly any change of expression. They could not understand me, but they looked approvingly to one another, and seemed pleased (so I thought) that I showed no fear nor acknowledgment of inferiority—the fact being that I was exhausted beyond the sense of fear. Then one of them pointed to the mountain, in the direction of the statues, and made a grimace in imitation of one of them. I laughed and shuddered expressively, whereon they all burst out laughing too, and chattered hard to one another. I could make out nothing of what they said, but I think they thought it rather a good joke that I had come past the statues. Then one among them came forward and motioned me to follow, which I did without hesitation, for I dared not thwart them; moreover, I liked them well enough, and felt tolerably sure that they had no intention of hurting me.
最后，我站了起来，拄着拐杖，把脑子里想到的任何事情都讲给了他们中最重要的那个人。我用英语说话，尽管我很确定他听不懂。我说我不知道​​我在哪个国家；在经历了一系列的惊险逃脱之后，我几乎是偶然发现了它；我相信他们不会允许任何邪恶降临到我身上，因为我完全受到他们的摆布。这一切都是我平静而坚定地说的，几乎没有任何表情变化。他们听不懂我的意思，但他们互相看着对方，似乎很高兴（我是这么想的）我没有表现出恐惧，也没有自卑——事实上，我已经筋疲力尽，超出了恐惧的感觉。然后其中一个人指着山上雕像的方向，模仿其中一个人做了个鬼脸。我大笑起来，浑身发抖，他们也跟着大笑起来，互相喋喋不休。我听不懂他们在说什么，但我认为他们认为我经过雕像是一个很好的笑话。然后他们中的一个人走上前来，示意我跟上，我毫不犹豫地照做了，因为我不敢阻止他们。而且，我非常喜欢他们，并且非常确信他们无意伤害我。

In about a quarter of an hour we got to a small Hamlet built on the side of a hill, with a narrow street and houses huddled up together. The roofs were large and overhanging. Some few windows were glazed, but not many. Altogether the village was exceedingly like one of those that one comes upon in descending the less known passes over the Alps on to Lombardy. I will pass over the excitement which my arrival caused. Suffice it, that though there was abundance of curiosity, there was no rudeness. I was taken to the principal house, which seemed to belong to the people who had captured me. There I was hospitably entertained, and a supper of milk and goat’s flesh with a kind of oatcake was set before me, of which I ate heartily. But all the time I was eating I could not help turning my eyes upon the two beautiful girls whom I had first seen, and who seemed to consider me as their lawful prize—which indeed I was, for I would have gone through fire and water for either of them.
大约一刻钟后，我们到达了一个依山而建的小哈姆雷特，街道狭窄，房屋挤在一起。屋顶很大而且悬垂。有几扇窗户是玻璃的，但不多。总而言之，这个村庄非常像人们从鲜为人知的山口越过阿尔卑斯山前往伦巴第时所遇到的村庄之一。我将忽略我的到来所引起的兴奋。尽管有很多好奇心，但没有任何粗鲁，这就足够了。我被带到了主屋，那里似乎是抓捕我的人的。在那里，我受到了热情的款待，一顿牛奶、山羊肉和一种燕麦饼的晚餐摆在我面前，我吃得津津有味。但在我吃饭的时候，我情不自禁地把目光转向我第一次见到的两个漂亮女孩，她们似乎把我视为他们的合法战利品——事实上我也是如此，因为我宁愿赴汤蹈火。对于他们中的任何一个。

Then came the inevitable surprise at seeing me smoke, which I will spare the reader; but I noticed that when they saw me strike a match, there was a hubbub of excitement which, it struck me, was not altogether unmixed with disapproval: why, I could not guess. Then the women retired, and I was left alone with the men, who tried to talk to me in every conceivable way; but we could come to no understanding, except that I was quite alone, and had come from a long way over the mountains. In the course of time they grew tired, and I very sleepy. I made signs as though I would sleep on the floor in my blankets, but they gave me one of their bunks with plenty of dried fern and grass, on to which I had no sooner laid myself than I fell fast asleep; nor did I awake till well into the following day, when I found myself in the hut with two men keeping guard over me and an old woman cooking. When I woke the men seemed pleased, and spoke to me as though bidding me good morning in a pleasant tone.
然后，当我看到我抽烟时，不可避免地会感到惊讶，但我不会让读者感到惊讶。但我注意到，当他们看到我划一根火柴时，一阵兴奋的喧闹，令我震惊的是，其中不乏不赞成的声音：为什么，我猜不出来。然后女人们都走了，只剩下我和男人们在一起，他们试图以各种可以想象的方式与我交谈。但我们无法达成共识，只知道我是一个人，而且是从很远的山上来的。久而久之他们就累了，而我也很困。我做出手势，好像我要盖着毯子睡在地板上，但他们给了我一张铺位，上面铺满了干蕨类植物和青草，我一躺在上面就睡着了。直到第二天我才醒来，发现自己在小屋里，有两个男人看守着我，还有一个老妇人在做饭。当我醒来时，这些人似乎很高兴，用愉快的语气对我说早安。

I went out of doors to wash in a creek which ran a few yards from the house. My hosts were as engrossed with me as ever; they never took their eyes off me, following every action that I did, no matter how trifling, and each looking towards the other for his opinion at every touch and turn. They took great interest in my ablutions, for they seemed to have doubted whether I was in all respects human like themselves. They even laid hold of my arms and overhauled them, and expressed approval when they saw that they were strong and muscular. They now examined my legs, and especially my feet. When they desisted they nodded approvingly to each other; and when I had combed and brushed my hair, and generally made myself as neat and well arranged as circumstances would allow, I could see that their respect for me increased greatly, and that they were by no means sure that they had treated me with sufficient deference—a matter on which I am not competent to decide. All I know is that they were very good to me, for which I thanked them heartily, as it might well have been otherwise.
我走出家门，到离房子几码远的小溪里洗澡。我的主人一如既往地全神贯注于我。他们的目光从未离开过我，关注着我所做的每一个动作，无论多么微不足道，并且在每一次接触和转身时都互相寻求对方的意见。他们对我的沐浴很感兴趣，因为他们似乎怀疑我是否在各方面都像他们一样是人类。他们还抓住我的手臂进行检查，看到我的手臂强壮、肌肉发达，表示认可。他们现在检查了我的腿，尤其是我的脚。当他们停下来时，他们互相点头表示赞同。当我梳理好头发，并在情况允许的情况下把自己打扮得干净整洁时，我可以看到他们对我的尊重大大增加，而且他们决不确定他们是否对我给予了足够的尊重。尊重——这是我没有能力决定的事情。我只知道他们对我很好，为此我衷心感谢他们，否则很可能会这样。

For my own part, I liked them and admired them, for their quiet self-possession and dignified ease impressed me pleasurably at once. Neither did their manner make me feel as though I were personally distasteful to them—only that I was a thing utterly new and unlooked for, which they could not comprehend. Their type was more that of the most robust Italians than any other; their manners also were eminently Italian, in their entire unconsciousness of self. Having travelled a good deal in Italy, I was struck with little gestures of the hand and shoulders, which constantly reminded me of that country. My feeling was that my wisest plan would be to go on as I had begun, and be simply myself for better or worse, such as I was, and take my chance accordingly.
就我而言，我喜欢他们，钦佩他们，因为他们安静的泰然自若和庄严的从容立刻给我留下了愉快的印象。他们的态度也没有让我觉得他们对我个人感到厌恶——只是我是一个全新的、不受欢迎的人，他们无法理解。他们的性格比其他任何人都更像是最坚强的意大利人。他们的举止也完全是意大利式的，完全没有自我意识。在意大利旅行了很多次之后，我对手和肩膀的小动作感到震惊，这不断让我想起那个国家。我的感觉是，我最明智的计划就是像我开始的那样继续下去，无论好坏，都只是做我自己，就像我一样，并相应地抓住机会。

I thought of these things while they were waiting for me to have done washing, and on my way back. Then they gave me breakfast—hot bread and milk, and fried flesh of something between mutton and venison. Their ways of cooking and eating were European, though they had only a skewer for a fork, and a sort of butcher’s knife to cut with. The more I looked at everything in the house, the more I was struck with its quasi-European character; and had the walls only been pasted over with extracts from the Illustrated London News and Punch, I could have almost fancied myself in a shepherd’s hut upon my master’s sheep-run. And yet everything was slightly different. It was much the same with the birds and flowers on the other side, as compared with the English ones. On my arrival I had been pleased at noticing that nearly all the plants and birds were very like common English ones: thus, there was a robin, and a lark, and a wren, and daisies, and dandelions; not quite the same as the English, but still very like them—quite like enough to be called by the same name; so now, here, the ways of these two men, and the things they had in the house, were all very nearly the same as in Europe. It was not at all like going to China or Japan, where everything that one sees is strange. I was, indeed, at once struck with the primitive character of their appliances, for they seemed to be some five or six hundred years behind Europe in their inventions; but this is the case in many an Italian village.
在他们等我洗漱的时候，以及我回来的路上，我就想到了这些事情。然后他们给了我早餐——热面包和牛奶，还有油炸的羊肉和鹿肉。他们的烹饪和饮食方式是欧洲式的，尽管他们只有一根叉子作为叉子，还有一种切肉用的刀。我对房子里的一切观察得越多，就越被它的准欧洲特色所震惊。如果墙壁上只贴上《伦敦新闻画报》和《潘趣》的摘录，我几乎可以想象自己住在主人羊圈上的牧羊人小屋里。然而一切都略有不同。与英国相比，那边的鸟语花香也差不多。当我到达时，我很高兴地注意到几乎所有的植物和鸟类都非常像英国常见的植物和鸟类：因此，有知更鸟、云雀、鹪鹩、雏菊和蒲公英；与英国人不太一样，但仍然很像——非常相似，可以用同样的名字来称呼；所以现在，这两个人在这里的生活方式，以及他们家里的东西，都和在欧洲几乎一样。这完全不像去中国或日本，看到的一切都很奇怪。事实上，我立刻就被他们的器具的原始特征所震惊，因为他们的发明似乎比欧洲落后了五六百年。但这是许多意大利村庄的情况。

All the time that I was eating my breakfast I kept speculating as to what family of mankind they could belong to; and shortly there came an idea into my head, which brought the blood into my cheeks with excitement as I thought of it. Was it possible that they might be the lost ten tribes of Israel, of whom I had heard both my grandfather and my father make mention as existing in an unknown country, and awaiting a final return to Palestine? Was it possible that I might have been designed by Providence as the instrument of their conversion? Oh, what a thought was this! I laid down my skewer and gave them a hasty survey. There was nothing of a Jewish type about them: their noses were distinctly Grecian, and their lips, though full, were not Jewish.
当我吃早餐的时候，我一直在猜测他们可能属于人类的哪个家族；不久，我的脑海中浮现出一个想法，一想到这个，我就激动得面颊泛红。他们有没有可能就是以色列失落的十个部落，我曾听我的祖父和父亲提到过他们存在于一个未知的国家，等待着最终返回巴勒斯坦？有没有可能我是上帝设计的，作为他们皈依的工具？噢，这是怎样的想法啊！我放下我的烤肉串，匆匆地给他们做了一份调查。他们身上没有任何犹太人的特征：他们的鼻子明显是希腊人的，而他们的嘴唇虽然丰满，却不是犹太人的。

How could I settle this question? I knew neither Greek nor Hebrew, and even if I should get to understand the language here spoken, I should be unable to detect the roots of either of these tongues. I had not been long enough among them to ascertain their habits, but they did not give me the impression of being a religious people. This too was natural: the ten tribes had been always lamentably irreligious. But could I not make them change? To restore the lost ten tribes of Israel to a knowledge of the only truth: here would be indeed an immortal crown of glory! My heart beat fast and furious as I entertained the thought. What a position would it not ensure me in the next world; or perhaps even in this! What folly it would be to throw such a chance away! I should rank next to the Apostles, if not as high as they—certainly above the minor prophets, and possibly above any Old Testament writer except Moses and Isaiah. For such a future as this I would sacrifice all that I have without a moment’s hesitation, could I be reasonably assured of it. I had always cordially approved of missionary efforts, and had at times contributed my mite towards their support and extension; but I had never hitherto felt drawn towards becoming a missionary myself; and indeed had always admired, and envied, and respected them, more than I had exactly liked them. But if these people were the lost ten tribes of Israel, the case would be widely different: the opening was too excellent to be lost, and I resolved that should I see indications which appeared to confirm my impression that I had indeed come upon the missing tribes, I would certainly convert them.
我该如何解决这个问题呢？我既不懂希腊语，也不懂希伯来语，即使我能理解这里所说的语言，我也无法发现这两种语言的根源。我在他们中间待的时间还不够长，无法确定他们的习惯，但他们并没有给我留下宗教信仰的印象。这也是很自然的：这十个部落一直都是令人遗憾的不信教的。但我不能让他们改变吗？让以色列失落的十个部落恢复对唯一真理的认识：这确实是一顶不朽的荣耀冠冕！当我想到这一点时，我的心跳得又快又猛烈。如果它不能保证我在下一个世界的地位，那该有多好啊？或者甚至在这个！如果放弃这样的机会，那将是多么愚蠢啊！我应该排在使徒们之后，即使没有他们那么高——肯定高于小先知，可能高于除摩西和以赛亚之外的任何旧约作者。为了这样的未来，如果我有足够的把握，我会毫不犹豫地牺牲我所拥有的一切。我一直衷心赞同传教工作，有时也为他们的支持和扩展贡献自己的微薄之力。但迄今为止，我自己从未想过要成为一名传教士。事实上，我一直钦佩、羡慕、尊重他们，胜过我对他们的喜爱。但如果这些人是以色列失落的十个支派，情况就会大不相同：开局太棒了，不可能失落，我决定，如果我看到迹象，似乎证实了我的印象，即我确实遇到了失踪的人。部落，我肯定会改变他们。

I may here mention that this discovery is the one to which I alluded in the opening pages of my story. Time strengthened the impression made upon me at first; and, though I remained in doubt for several months, I feel now no longer uncertain.
我可以在这里提到这一发现是我在故事的开头几页中提到的。时间加深了我最初的印象；尽管几个月来我一直心存疑虑，但现在我不再不确定了。

When I had done eating, my hosts approached, and pointed down the valley leading to their own country, as though wanting to show that I must go with them; at the same time they laid hold of my arms, and made as though they would take me, but used no violence. I laughed, and motioned my hand across my throat, pointing down the valley as though I was afraid lest I should be killed when I got there. But they divined me at once, and shook their heads with much decision, to show that I was in no danger. Their manner quite reassured me; and in half an hour or so I had packed up my swag, and was eager for the forward journey, feeling wonderfully strengthened and refreshed by good food and sleep, while my hope and curiosity were aroused to their very utmost by the extraordinary position in which I found myself.
当我吃完饭后，我的主人走近了，指着通往他们自己国家的山谷，好像想表明我必须和他们一起去；但我没有。与此同时，他们抓住我的手臂，做出要抓住我的样子，但没有使用暴力。我笑了，用手捂住喉咙，指着山谷，好像我害怕到了那里就会被杀。但他们立刻就猜到了我的意思，并坚定地摇了摇头，以表明我没有危险。他们的态度让我很放心。大约半小时后，我就收拾好了我的行李，渴望着继续前行，良好的食物和睡眠使我感到非常强壮和精神焕发，同时我的希望和好奇心也因所处的非凡位置而被激发到了极致。我寻找到了自我。

But already my excitement had begun to cool and I reflected that these people might not be the ten tribes after all; in which case I could not but regret that my hopes of making money, which had led me into so much trouble and danger, were almost annihilated by the fact that the country was full to overflowing, with a people who had probably already developed its more available resources. Moreover, how was I to get back? For there was something about my hosts which told me that they had got me, and meant to keep me, in spite of all their goodness.
但我的兴奋已经开始冷却，我想这些人可能根本不是十个部落；在这种情况下，我不能不遗憾的是，我赚钱的希望几乎让我陷入了如此多的麻烦和危险，因为这个国家已经人满为患，人民可能已经发展了更多的经济。可用资源。再说了，我要怎么回去呢？因为我的主人身上有一种东西告诉我，他们已经抓住了我，并且打算保留我，尽管他们很善良。

CHAPTER VII: FIRST IMPRESSIONS
第七章：第一印象

We followed an Alpine path for some four miles, now hundreds of feet above a brawling stream which descended from the glaciers, and now nearly alongside it. The morning was cold and somewhat foggy, for the autumn had made great strides latterly. Sometimes we went through forests of pine, or rather yew trees, though they looked like pine; and I remember that now and again we passed a little wayside shrine, wherein there would be a statue of great beauty, representing some figure, male or female, in the very heyday of youth, strength, and beauty, or of the most dignified maturity and old age. My hosts always bowed their heads as they passed one of these shrines, and it shocked me to see statues that had no apparent object, beyond the chronicling of some unusual individual excellence or beauty, receive so serious a homage. However, I showed no sign of wonder or disapproval; for I remembered that to be all things to all men was one of the injunctions of the Gentile Apostle, which for the present I should do well to heed. Shortly after passing one of these chapels we came suddenly upon a village which started up out of the mist; and I was alarmed lest I should be made an object of curiosity or dislike. But it was not so. My guides spoke to many in passing, and those spoken to showed much amazement. My guides, however, were well known, and the natural politeness of the people prevented them from putting me to any inconvenience; but they could not help eyeing me, nor I them. I may as well say at once what my after-experience taught me—namely, that with all their faults and extraordinary obliquity of mental vision upon many subjects, they are the very best-bred people that I ever fell in with.
我们沿着阿尔卑斯山小路走了大约四英里，现在位于一条从冰川流下的湍急溪流上方数百英尺处，现在几乎沿着它。秋天已经大步过去了，早晨很冷，还有些雾气。有时我们穿过松树林，或者更确切地说是紫杉树林，尽管它们看起来像松树。我记得我们时不时地经过路边的一座小神殿，那里有一尊非常美丽的雕像，代表着某个人物，无论是男性还是女性，处于青春、力量和美丽的全盛时期，或者是最有尊严的成熟时期。和年老。当我的主人经过这些神殿之一时，他们总是低下头，看到那些没有明显物体的雕像，除了记录一些不寻常的个人卓越或美丽之外，受到如此严肃的敬意，让我感到震惊。然而，我并没有表现出任何惊奇或不赞成的迹象。因为我记得，成为所有人的一切是外邦使徒的训诫之一，目前我应该好好注意这一点。经过其中一个小教堂后不久，我们突然来到了一座从薄雾中升起的村庄。我很担心自己会成为好奇或厌恶的对象。但事实并非如此。我的导游顺便和很多人交谈过，而那些交谈过的人都表现出了极大的惊讶。然而，我的导游是众所周知的，而且人们天生的礼貌使他们不会给我带来任何不便。但他们忍不住看我，我也不看他们。我不妨立即说出我后来的经历所教给我的——即，尽管他们有种种缺点，而且在许多问题上的思维眼光异常偏斜，但他们是我遇到过的最有教养的人。

The village was just like the one we had left, only rather larger. The streets were narrow and unpaved, but very fairly clean. The vine grew outside many of the houses; and there were some with sign-boards, on which was painted a bottle and a glass, that made me feel much at home. Even on this ledge of human society there was a stunted growth of shoplets, which had taken root and vegetated somehow, though as in an air mercantile of the bleakest. It was here as hitherto: all things were generically the same as in Europe, the differences being of species only; and I was amused at seeing in a window some bottles with barley-sugar and sweetmeats for children, as at home; but the barley-sugar was in plates, not in twisted sticks, and was coloured blue. Glass was plentiful in the better houses.
这个村子和我们离开的那个村子一模一样，只是更大一些。街道狭窄且未铺砌，但非常干净。许多房子外面都长着藤蔓。还有一些带有招牌的，上面画着一个瓶子和一个玻璃杯，让我有宾至如归的感觉。即使在人类社会的这一边缘，小店的发展也受到阻碍，尽管在最萧条的商业氛围中，它们已经扎根并生长茂盛。迄今为止，这里的一切都和欧洲一样，只是物种上的差异。我很高兴地看到窗口里有一些瓶子，里面装着大麦糖和给孩子们吃的甜食，就像在家里一样。但大麦糖是装在盘子里的，而不是装在扭曲的棍子里的，而且颜色是蓝色的。较好的房子里有很多玻璃。

Lastly, I should say that the people were of a physical beauty which was simply amazing. I never saw anything in the least comparable to them. The women were vigorous, and had a most majestic gait, their heads being set upon their shoulders with a grace beyond all power of expression. Each feature was finished, eyelids, eyelashes, and ears being almost invariably perfect. Their colour was equal to that of the finest Italian paintings; being of the clearest olive, and yet ruddy with a glow of perfect health. Their expression was divine; and as they glanced at me timidly but with parted lips in great bewilderment, I forgot all thoughts of their conversion in feelings that were far more earthly. I was dazzled as I saw one after the other, of whom I could only feel that each was the loveliest I had ever seen. Even in middle age they were still comely, and the old grey-haired women at their cottage doors had a dignity, not to say majesty, of their own.
最后，我应该说，人们的外表美丽，简直令人惊叹。我从来没有见过任何东西可以与他们相比。女人们精力充沛，步态极其威严，头枕在肩上，优雅得无法形容。每一个特征都已完成，眼睑、睫毛和耳朵几乎无一例外都是完美的。它们的色彩与最精美的意大利画作的色彩相同；呈最清澈的橄榄色，但面色红润，散发着完美健康的光芒。他们的表情是神圣的；当他们胆怯地看着我，却张着双唇，充满困惑时，我忘记了他们在更世俗的感情上的转变。我眼花缭乱地看着一个又一个，只觉得每个人都是我见过的最可爱的人。即使到了中年，她们仍然很漂亮，小屋门口的白发老妇也有她们自己的尊严，更不用说威严了。

The men were as handsome as the women beautiful. I have always delighted in and reverenced beauty; but I felt simply abashed in the presence of such a splendid type—a compound of all that is best in Egyptian, Greek and Italian. The children were infinite in number, and exceedingly merry; I need hardly say that they came in for their full share of the prevailing beauty. I expressed by signs my admiration and pleasure to my guides, and they were greatly pleased. I should add that all seemed to take a pride in their personal appearance, and that even the poorest (and none seemed rich) were well kempt and tidy. I could fill many pages with a description of their dress and the ornaments which they wore, and a hundred details which struck me with all the force of novelty; but I must not stay to do so.
男人同样英俊，女人也同样美丽。我一向喜爱美、崇敬美；但面对如此出色的人物，我感到很羞愧——他集埃及、希腊和意大利的精华于一身。孩子们数量众多，而且非常快乐。我几乎不用说，他们进来是为了充分分享流行的美丽。我用手势向我的向导表达了我的钦佩和高兴，他们非常高兴。我应该补充一点，所有人似乎都对自己的个人外表感到自豪，即使是最贫穷的人（似乎没有一个人看起来很富有）也都保持着整洁。我可以用很多页来描述他们的服装和佩戴的装饰品，以及一百个让我感到新奇的细节；但我不能留下来这样做。

When we had got past the village the fog rose, and revealed magnificent views of the snowy mountains and their nearer abutments, while in front I could now and again catch glimpses of the great plains which I had surveyed on the preceding evening. The country was highly cultivated, every ledge being planted with chestnuts, walnuts, and apple-trees from which the apples were now gathering. Goats were abundant; also a kind of small black cattle, in the marshes near the river, which was now fast widening, and running between larger flats from which the hills receded more and more. I saw a few sheep with rounded noses and enormous tails. Dogs were there in plenty, and very English; but I saw no cats, nor indeed are these creatures known, their place being supplied by a sort of small terrier.
当我们经过村庄时，雾气升起，雪山及其附近的山峦的壮丽景色显露出来，而在前面，我时不时地瞥见前一天晚上我所观察到的大平原。这个国家的耕种程度很高，每一个壁架都种植着栗子、核桃和苹果树，现在正在从苹果树上采摘苹果。山羊数量很多。还有一种黑色的小牛，生活在河边的沼泽地里，河边现在正在迅速扩大，在更大的平地之间奔跑，而山丘也越来越远。我看到几只羊，有着圆圆的鼻子和巨大的尾巴。那里有很多狗，而且非常英国化。但我没有看到猫，这些生物也确实不为人所知，它们的位置是由一种小型梗犬提供的。

In about four hours of walking from the time we started, and after passing two or three more villages, we came upon a considerable town, and my guides made many attempts to make me understand something, but I gathered no inkling of their meaning, except that I need be under no apprehension of danger. I will spare the reader any description of the town, and would only bid him think of Domodossola or Faido. Suffice it that I found myself taken before the chief magistrate, and by his orders was placed in an apartment with two other people, who were the first I had seen looking anything but well and handsome. In fact, one of them was plainly very much out of health, and coughed violently from time to time in spite of manifest efforts to suppress it. The other looked pale and ill but he was marvellously self-contained, and it was impossible to say what was the matter with him. Both of them appeared astonished at seeing one who was evidently a stranger, but they were too ill to come up to me, and form conclusions concerning me. These two were first called out; and in about a quarter of an hour I was made to follow them, which I did in some fear, and with much curiosity.
从我们出发开始步行大约四个小时，又经过两三个村庄后，我们来到了一个相当大的城镇，我的导游多次试图让我理解一些东西，但我对它们的含义一无所知，除了我不需要担心危险。我不会让读者对这个城镇进行任何描述，只会让他想起多莫多索拉或法伊多。我发现自己被带到首席法官面前就够了，根据他的命令，我和另外两个人被安置在一间公寓里，这是我第一次看到他们看起来既健康又不英俊。事实上，其中一个人的健康状况显然非常糟糕，尽管他明显地努力压制，但还是时不时地剧烈咳嗽。另一个人看上去脸色苍白，病重，但他却非常自持，根本无法说出他到底出了什么问题。看到一个显然是陌生人的人，他们俩都显得很惊讶，但他们病得太重，无法走到我身边，对我做出结论。这两个人首先被叫出来；大约一刻钟后，我被迫跟随他们，我怀着恐惧和好奇的心情跟着他们。

The chief magistrate was a venerable-looking man, with white hair and beard and a face of great sagacity. He looked me all over for about five minutes, letting his eyes wander from the crown of my head to the soles of my feet, up and down, and down and up; neither did his mind seem in the least clearer when he had done looking than when he began. He at length asked me a single short question, which I supposed meant ‘Who are you?’ I answered in English quite composedly as though he would understand me, and endeavoured to be my very most natural self as well as I could. He appeared more and more puzzled, and then retired, returning with two others much like himself. Then they took me into an inner room, and the two fresh arrivals stripped me, while the chief looked on. They felt my pulse, they looked at my tongue, they listened at my chest, they felt all my muscles; and at the end of each operation they looked at the chief and nodded, and said something in a tone quite pleasant, as though I were all right. They even pulled down my eyelids, and looked, I suppose, to see if they were bloodshot; but it was not so. At length they gave up; and I think that all were satisfied of my being in the most perfect health, and very robust to boot. At last the old magistrate made me a speech of about five minutes long, which the other two appeared to think greatly to the point, but from which I gathered nothing. As soon as it was ended, they proceeded to overhaul my swag and the contents of my pockets. This gave me little uneasiness, for I had no money with me, nor anything which they were at all likely to want, or which I cared about losing. At least I fancied so, but I soon found my mistake.
首席县令是一位面容威严的男子，白发白须，面容睿智。他打量了我大约五分钟，目光从我的头顶到脚底，上下、下、上。当他看完之后，他的头脑也丝毫没有比开始时更清晰。最后他问了我一个简短的问题，我猜想这个问题的意思是“你是谁？”我相当镇定地用英语回答，就好像他能理解我一样，并尽力表现出最自然的自我。他显得越来越困惑，然后退休了，带着另外两个和他很像的人回来了。然后他们把我带到里面的房间，两个新来的人把我的衣服脱光，酋长在一旁看着。他们摸我的脉搏，看我的舌头，听我的胸部，摸我所有的肌肉；每次手术结束时，他们都会看着队长点点头，然后用一种非常愉快的语气说些什么，就好像我没事一样。他们甚至拉下我的眼皮，我想，是为了看看我的眼皮是否充血。但事实并非如此。最后他们放弃了。我认为所有人都对我的健康状况感到满意，而且身体非常强壮。最后，老县长给我做了一段大约五分钟的演讲，另外两个人似乎对这个演讲很感兴趣，但我从中什么也没得到。事情一结束，他们就开始检查我的赃物和口袋里的东西。这并没有让我感到不安，因为我身上没有钱，也没有任何他们可能想要的东西，或者我担心失去的东西。至少我是这么认为的，但我很快就发现了自己的错误。

They got on comfortably at first, though they were much puzzled with my tobacco-pipe and insisted on seeing me use it. When I had shown them what I did with it, they were astonished but not displeased, and seemed to like the smell. But by and by they came to my watch, which I had hidden away in the inmost pocket that I had, and had forgotten when they began their search. They seemed concerned and uneasy as soon as they got hold of it. They then made me open it and show the works; and when I had done so they gave signs of very grave displeasure, which disturbed me all the more because I could not conceive wherein it could have offended them.
他们一开始相处得很融洽，尽管他们对我的烟斗很困惑，并坚持要看到我使用它。当我向他们展示我用它做了什么时，他们感到惊讶，但并没有不高兴，而且似乎很喜欢这种气味。但渐渐地，他们找到了我的手表，我把它藏在我最里面的口袋里，当他们开始搜查时我就把它忘了。他们一拿到手，就显得有些担心和不安。然后他们让我打开它并展示作品；当我这样做时，他们表现出了非常严重的不满，这让我更加不安，因为我无法想象这会冒犯他们。

I remember that when they first found it I had thought of Paley, and how he tells us that a savage on seeing a watch would at once conclude that it was designed. True, these people were not savages, but I none the less felt sure that this was the conclusion they would arrive at; and I was thinking what a wonderfully wise man Archbishop Paley must have been, when I was aroused by a look of horror and dismay upon the face of the magistrate, a look which conveyed to me the impression that he regarded my watch not as having been designed, but rather as the designer of himself and of the universe; or as at any rate one of the great first causes of all things.
我记得当他们第一次发现它时，我想到了佩利，以及他如何告诉我们，一个野蛮人看到一块手表会立即断定它是被设计的。诚然，这些人并不是野蛮人，但我仍然确信这就是他们会得出的结论；我正在想，佩利大主教一定是一位非常聪明的人，这时我被治安法官脸上的恐惧和沮丧的表情所惊醒，这种表情给我留下了这样的印象：他认为我的手表没有被注意到。被设计，而是作为他自己和宇宙的设计者；或者至少是万物最伟大的最初原因之一。

Then it struck me that this view was quite as likely to be taken as the other by a people who had no experience of European civilisation, and I was a little piqued with Paley for having led me so much astray; but I soon discovered that I had misinterpreted the expression on the magistrate’s face, and that it was one not of fear, but hatred. He spoke to me solemnly and sternly for two or three minutes. Then, reflecting that this was of no use, he caused me to be conducted through several passages into a large room, which I afterwards found was the museum of the town, and wherein I beheld a sight which astonished me more than anything that I had yet seen.
然后我突然意识到，对于一个没有欧洲文明经验的人来说，这种观点和另一种观点一样有可能被接受，而且我对佩利让我误入歧途感到有点恼火。但我很快发现我误解了县长脸上的表情，那不是恐惧，而是仇恨。他严肃而严厉地对我说了两三分钟。然后，他觉得这没有用，就让我穿过几条通道进入一个大房间，后来我发现那是镇上的博物馆，在那里我看到了比我所见过的任何东西都更令我惊讶的景象。还见过。

It was filled with cases containing all manner of curiosities—such as skeletons, stuffed birds and animals, carvings in stone (whereof I saw several that were like those on the saddle, only smaller), but the greater part of the room was occupied by broken machinery of all descriptions. The larger specimens had a case to themselves, and tickets with writing on them in a character which I could not understand. There were fragments of steam engines, all broken and rusted; among them I saw a cylinder and piston, a broken fly-wheel, and part of a crank, which was laid on the ground by their side. Again, there was a very old carriage whose wheels in spite of rust and decay, I could see, had been designed originally for iron rails. Indeed, there were fragments of a great many of our own most advanced inventions; but they seemed all to be several hundred years old, and to be placed where they were, not for instruction, but curiosity. As I said before, all were marred and broken.
里面装满了各种奇珍异宝的箱子——比如骷髅、填充鸟类和动物标本、石雕（我看到其中有几个和马鞍上的一样，只是更小），但房间的大部分都被各种损坏的机器。较大的标本有一个单独的盒子，以及上面写着我无法理解的字符的票据。那里有蒸汽机的碎片，全部破损且生锈。在他们中间，我看到了一个气缸和活塞，一个坏了的飞轮，还有一个曲柄的一部分，这些曲柄放在他们旁边的地上。又是一辆非常古老的马车，尽管我看到它的车轮已经生锈和腐烂，但它最初是为铁轨设计的。事实上，这里有我们许多最先进发明的碎片。但它们似乎都有几百年的历史了，并且被放置在原处，不是为了指导，而是为了好奇。正如我之前所说，一切都被损坏和破碎了。

We passed many cases, and at last came to one in which there were several clocks and two or three old watches. Here the magistrate stopped, and opening the case began comparing my watch with the others. The design was different, but the thing was clearly the same. On this he turned to me and made me a speech in a severe and injured tone of voice, pointing repeatedly to the watches in the case, and to my own; neither did he seem in the least appeased until I made signs to him that he had better take my watch and put it with the others. This had some effect in calming him. I said in English (trusting to tone and manner to convey my meaning) that I was exceedingly sorry if I had been found to have anything contraband in my possession; that I had had no intention of evading the ordinary tolls, and that I would gladly forfeit the watch if my doing so would atone for an unintentional violation of the law. He began presently to relent, and spoke to me in a kinder manner. I think he saw that I had offended without knowledge; but I believe the chief thing that brought him round was my not seeming to be afraid of him, although I was quite respectful; this, and my having light hair and complexion, on which he had remarked previously by signs, as every one else had done.
我们经过了很多箱子，最后来到一个箱子里，里面有几个钟表和两三块旧手表。法官说到这里停了下来，打开箱子开始将我的手表与其他手表进行比较。设计不同，但东西显然是一样的。说到这里，他转向我，用严厉而受伤的语气向我讲话，反复指着箱子里的手表和我自己的手表；直到我向他示意他最好拿走我的手表并把它和其他人放在一起之前，他似乎也没有丝毫平静。这对他的平静起到了一定的作用。我用英语（相信语气和方式能够传达我的意思）说，如果我被发现携带任何违禁品，我将非常抱歉；我无意逃避普通通行费，如果我这样做可以弥补无意中违反法律的行为，我很乐意没收手表。他很快就态度缓和了，对我说话的态度更加友善了。我想他在不知情的情况下就看出了我的冒犯；但我相信让他回心转意的主要原因是我看起来并不害怕他，尽管我很尊重他。这个，还有我的浅色头发和肤色，他之前已经用迹象表明了这一点，就像其他人所做的那样。

I afterwards found that it was reckoned a very great merit to have fair hair, this being a thing of the rarest possible occurrence, and greatly admired and envied in all who were possessed of it. However that might be, my watch was taken from me; but our peace was made, and I was conducted back to the room where I had been examined. The magistrate then made me another speech, whereon I was taken to a building hard by, which I soon discovered to be the common prison of the town, but in which an apartment was assigned me separate from the other prisoners. The room contained a bed, table, and chairs, also a fireplace and a washing-stand. There was another door, which opened on to a balcony, with a flight of steps descending into a walled garden of some size. The man who conducted me into this room made signs to me that I might go down and walk in the garden whenever I pleased, and intimated that I should shortly have something brought me to eat. I was allowed to retain my blankets, and the few things which I had wrapped inside them, but it was plain that I was to consider myself a prisoner— for how long a period I could not by any means determine. He then left me alone.
后来我发现，拥有一头金发被认为是一种极大的优点，这是一种极为罕见的事情，所有拥有一头金发的人都非常钦佩和羡慕。不管怎样，我的手表被拿走了；但我们和解了，我被带回了我接受检查的房间。治安法官又给我做了一次演讲，然后我被带到了附近的一栋大楼，我很快发现那是镇上的普通监狱，但里面给我分配了一间公寓，与其他囚犯分开。房间里有一张床、桌子和椅子，还有一个壁炉和一个盥洗台。还有另一扇门，通向一个阳台，有一段台阶通向一个有围墙的大小不一的花园。带我进入这个房间的那个人向我示意，只要我愿意，我就可以下去花园里散步，并暗示我很快就会有东西给我带来吃的。我被允许保留我的毯子，以及我裹在里面的一些东西，但很明显，我将把自己视为囚犯——我无法确定要囚禁多久。然后他就留下我一个人了。

CHAPTER VIII: IN PRISON
第八章：监狱里

And now for the first time my courage completely failed me. It is enough to say that I was penniless, and a prisoner in a foreign country, where I had no friend, nor any knowledge of the customs or language of the people. I was at the mercy of men with whom I had little in common. And yet, engrossed as I was with my extremely difficult and doubtful position, I could not help feeling deeply interested in the people among whom I had fallen. What was the meaning of that room full of old machinery which I had just seen, and of the displeasure with which the magistrate had regarded my watch? The people had very little machinery now. I had been struck with this over and over again, though I had not been more than four-and-twenty hours in the country. They were about as far advanced as Europeans of the twelfth or thirteenth century; certainly not more so. And yet they must have had at one time the fullest knowledge of our own most recent inventions. How could it have happened that having been once so far in advance they were now as much behind us? It was evident that it was not from ignorance. They knew my watch as a watch when they saw it; and the care with which the broken machines were preserved and ticketed, proved that they had not lost the recollection of their former civilisation. The more I thought, the less I could understand it; but at last I concluded that they must have worked out their mines of coal and iron, till either none were left, or so few, that the use of these metals was restricted to the very highest nobility. This was the only solution I could think of; and, though I afterwards found how entirely mistaken it was, I felt quite sure then that it must be the right one.
现在我第一次完全失去了勇气。可以说，我身无分文，是异国的囚犯，没有朋友，也不了解当地人民的风俗和语言。我受到那些与我没有什么共同点的人的摆布。然而，尽管我全神贯注于自己极其困难和可疑的处境，我还是情不自禁地对我所陷入的人们产生了浓厚的兴趣。我刚才看到的那个满是旧机器的房间，以及地方法官看我的手表时的不满，意味着什么？人们现在拥有的机械很少。尽管我在乡下呆的时间不超过四二十个小时，但我却一次又一次地被这个问题所震惊。他们的进步程度与十二或十三世纪的欧洲人差不多。当然不是更是如此。然而，他们一定曾经对我们自己的最新发明拥有最全面的了解。他们怎么可能曾经领先我们这么远，现在却落后我们那么多呢？显然，这并非出于无知。他们一看到我的表就知道它是表；损坏的机器被精心保存并贴上票据，证明他们并没有失去对以前文明的记忆。我越想越不明白；但最后我得出的结论是，他们一定已经开采了煤矿和铁矿，直到没有剩下，或者很少，以至于这些金属的使用仅限于最高贵族。这是我能想到的唯一解决办法；尽管后来我发现这是完全错误的，但我当时非常确定它一定是正确的。

I had hardly arrived at this opinion for above four or five minutes, when the door opened, and a young woman made her appearance with a tray, and a very appetising smell of dinner. I gazed upon her with admiration as she laid a cloth and set a savoury-looking dish upon the table. As I beheld her I felt as though my position was already much ameliorated, for the very sight of her carried great comfort. She was not more than twenty, rather above the middle height, active and strong, but yet most delicately featured; her lips were full and sweet; her eyes were of a deep hazel, and fringed with long and springing eyelashes; her hair was neatly braided from off her forehead; her complexion was simply exquisite; her figure as robust as was consistent with the most perfect female beauty, yet not more so; her hands and feet might have served as models to a sculptor. Having set the stew upon the table, she retired with a glance of pity, whereon (remembering pity’s kinsman) I decided that she should pity me a little more. She returned with a bottle and a glass, and found me sitting on the bed with my hands over my face, looking the very picture of abject misery, and, like all pictures, rather untruthful. As I watched her, through my fingers, out of the room again, I felt sure that she was exceedingly sorry for me. Her back being turned, I set to work and ate my dinner, which was excellent.
我还没等四五分钟得出这个结论，门就打开了，一位年轻女子端着托盘出现了，空气中弥漫着令人垂涎欲滴的晚餐香味。当她铺上一块布，把一盘看起来很美味的菜放在桌子上时，我钦佩地看着她。当我看到她时，我感觉自己的处境已经好多了，因为看到她就带来了极大的安慰。她不到二十岁，中等身材以上，活泼有力，但五官却十分精致。她的嘴唇饱满而甜美。她的眼睛是深褐色的，睫毛长长而富有弹性。她的头发从前额开始整齐地编成辫子。她的肤色非常精致。她的身材健壮，符合最完美的女性美，但又不过如此。她的手和脚可能是雕塑家的模型。把炖菜放在桌子上后，她带着怜悯的目光走了出去，于是（想起怜悯的亲戚）我决定她应该再怜悯我一点。她拿着一个瓶子和一个玻璃杯回来，发现我坐在床上，双手捂着脸，看上去非常痛苦，而且像所有的照片一样，相当不真实。当我透过手指看着她再次走出房间时，我确信她对我非常难过。她转过身去，我开始工作并吃晚饭，真是太棒了。

She returned in about an hour to take away; and there came with her a man who had a great bunch of keys at his waist, and whose manner convinced me that he was the jailor. I afterwards found that he was father to the beautiful creature who had brought me my dinner. I am not a much greater hypocrite than other people, and do what I would, I could not look so very miserable. I had already recovered from my dejection, and felt in a most genial humour both with my jailor and his daughter. I thanked them for their attention towards me; and, though they could not understand, they looked at one another and laughed and chattered till the old man said something or other which I suppose was a joke; for the girl laughed merrily and ran away, leaving her father to take away the dinner things. Then I had another visitor, who was not so prepossessing, and who seemed to have a great idea of himself and a small one of me. He brought a book with him, and pens and paper—all very English; and yet, neither paper, nor printing, nor binding, nor pen, nor ink, were quite the same as ours.
她大约一个小时后回来带走；和她一起来的还有一个男人，腰间挂着一大串钥匙，他的态度让我相信他就是狱卒。后来我发现他是那个给我送晚餐的美丽生物的父亲。我并不比其他人更伪善，做我想做的事，我不能看起来那么痛苦。我已经从沮丧中恢复过来，对我的狱卒和他的女儿感到非常和蔼可亲。我感谢他们对我的关注；尽管他们听不懂，但他们还是互相看着对方，笑着说着，直到老人说了些什么，我想那是个笑话。女孩高兴地笑了，跑开了，留下她的父亲把晚饭的东西拿走了。然后我又遇到了另一位访客，他不那么讨人喜欢，似乎对自己和我都有着很高的认识。他随身带着一本书、笔和纸——全都是非常英国化的东西。然而，无论是纸张、印刷、装订、钢笔还是墨水，都与我们的完全不同。

He gave me to understand that he was to teach me the language and that we were to begin at once. This delighted me, both because I should be more comfortable when I could understand and make myself understood, and because I supposed that the authorities would hardly teach me the language if they intended any cruel usage towards me afterwards. We began at once, and I learnt the names of everything in the room, and also the numerals and personal pronouns. I found to my sorrow that the resemblance to European things, which I had so frequently observed hitherto, did not hold good in the matter of language; for I could detect no analogy whatever between this and any tongue of which I have the slightest knowledge,—a thing which made me think it possible that I might be learning Hebrew.
他让我明白他要教我语言，我们要立即开始。这让我很高兴，一方面是因为当我能够理解并让自己被理解时，我应该会更舒服；另一方面因为我认为如果当局事后打算对我进行任何残酷的使用，他们就很难教我这种语言。我们立即开始，我学会了房间里所有东西的名称，还有数字和人称代词。我悲伤地发现，迄今为止我经常观察到的与欧洲事物的相似之处在语言方面并不适用。因为我无法发现这与我所了解的任何语言之间有任何相似之处，这让我认为我可能正在学习希伯来语。

I must detail no longer; from this time my days were spent with a monotony which would have been tedious but for the society of Yram, the jailor’s daughter, who had taken a great fancy for me and treated me with the utmost kindness. The man came every day to teach me the language, but my real dictionary and grammar were Yram; and I consulted them to such purpose that I made the most extraordinary progress, being able at the end of a month to understand a great deal of the conversation which I overheard between Yram and her father. My teacher professed himself well satisfied, and said he should make a favourable report of me to the authorities. I then questioned him as to what would probably be done with me. He told me that my arrival had caused great excitement throughout the country, and that I was to be detained a close prisoner until the receipt of advices from the Government. My having had a watch, he said, was the only damaging feature in the case. And then, in answer to my asking why this should be so, he gave me a long story of which with my imperfect knowledge of the language I could make nothing whatever, except that it was a very heinous offence, almost as bad (at least, so I thought I understood him) as having typhus fever. But he said he thought my light hair would save me.
我不必再详细说明；从那时起，我的日子过得很单调，如果没有狱卒的女儿伊拉姆的陪伴，我的日子会很乏味，她很喜欢我，对我非常友善。这个人每天都来教我语言，但我真正的字典和语法是伊拉姆语；我向他们咨询的目的如此之大，以至于我取得了最非凡的进步，在月底时能够理解我无意中听到的伊拉姆和她父亲之间的大部分对话。我的老师声称自己很满意，并说他应该向当局提出对我有利的报告。然后我问他可能会对我做什么。他告诉我，我的到来在全国引起了极大的轰动，在收到政府的建议之前，我将被作为严刑拷打的囚犯拘留。他说，我有一块手表，这是这个箱子里唯一有损坏的地方。然后，在回答我为什么会这样的问题时，他给了我一个很长的故事，以我对语言的不完善的了解，我什么也说不出来，除了这是一个非常令人发指的罪行，几乎同样糟糕（至少） ，所以我以为我理解他）患有斑疹伤寒。但他说他认为我的浅色头发会拯救我。

I was allowed to walk in the garden; there was a high wall so that I managed to play a sort of hand fives, which prevented my feeling the bad effects of my confinement, though it was stupid work playing alone. In the course of time people from the town and neighbourhood began to pester the jailor to be allowed to see me, and on receiving handsome fees he let them do so. The people were good to me; almost too good, for they were inclined to make a lion of me, which I hated—at least the women were; only they had to beware of Yram, who was a young lady of a jealous temperament, and kept a sharp eye both on me and on my lady visitors. However, I felt so kindly towards her, and was so entirely dependent upon her for almost all that made my life a blessing and a comfort to me, that I took good care not to vex her, and we remained excellent friends. The men were far less inquisitive, and would not, I believe, have come near me of their own accord; but the women made them come as escorts. I was delighted with their handsome mien, and pleasant genial manners.
我被允许在花园里散步；有一堵高墙，所以我可以玩一种五人制的游戏，这让我无法感受到禁闭带来的不良影响，尽管独自玩是很愚蠢的工作。随着时间的推移，镇上和附近的人们开始缠着狱卒，希望他能见我，在收到了可观的费用后，狱卒就让他们这样做了。人们对我很好；几乎太好了，因为他们倾向于把我变成狮子，我讨厌这一点——至少女人们是这样。只是他们必须提防亚拉姆，她是一位性情嫉妒的年轻女士，对我和我的女访客都保持着敏锐的目光。然而，我对她非常友善，几乎所有的事情都完全依赖她，这使我的生活成为一种祝福和安慰，所以我小心翼翼地不惹恼她，我们仍然是很好的朋友。这些人的好奇心远没有那么强烈，我相信他们不会主动靠近我。但妇女们却让他们来作为护卫。他们英俊的外表和令人愉快的和蔼的举止让我很高兴。

My food was plain, but always varied and wholesome, and the good red wine was admirable. I had found a sort of wort in the garden, which I sweated in heaps and then dried, obtaining thus a substitute for tobacco; so that what with Yram, the language, visitors, fives in the garden, smoking, and bed, my time slipped by more rapidly and pleasantly than might have been expected. I also made myself a small flute; and being a tolerable player, amused myself at times with playing snatches from operas, and airs such as ‘O where and oh where,’ and ‘Home, sweet home.’ This was of great advantage to me, for the people of the country were ignorant of the diatonic scale and could hardly believe their ears on hearing some of our most common melodies. Often, too, they would make me sing; and I could at any time make Yram’s eyes swim with tears by singing ‘Wilkins and his Dinah,’ ‘Billy Taylor,’ ‘The Ratcatcher’s Daughter,’ or as much of them as I could remember.
我的食物很简单，但总是多种多样且有益健康，优质的红酒令人钦佩。我在花园里发现了一种麦芽汁，我把它成堆地发汗，然后晒干，从而获得了烟草的替代品。因此，随着伊拉姆语、语言、访客、花园里的五人行、吸烟和睡觉，我的时间过得比预期更快、更愉快。我还给自己做了一支小笛子；作为一个还算可以的演奏家，我有时会演奏一些歌剧片段和诸如“哦哪里，哦哪里”和“家，甜蜜的家”之类的曲子来取乐。这对我、对这个国家的人民来说都是很大的好处他们对全音阶一无所知，在听到一些我们最常见的旋律时几乎不敢相信自己的耳朵。他们也经常让我唱歌。我随时可以唱《威尔金斯和他的黛娜》、《比利·泰勒》、《捕鼠人的女儿》或我能记得的所有歌曲，让伊拉姆的眼里噙满泪水。

I had one or two discussions with them because I never would sing on Sunday (of which I kept count in my pocket-book), except chants and hymn tunes; of these I regret to say that I had forgotten the words, so that I could only sing the tune. They appeared to have little or no religious feeling, and to have never so much as heard of the divine institution of the Sabbath, so they ascribed my observance of it to a fit of sulkiness, which they remarked as coming over me upon every seventh day. But they were very tolerant, and one of them said to me quite kindly that she knew how impossible it was to help being sulky at times, only she thought I ought to see some one if it became more serious—a piece of advice which I then failed to understand, though I pretended to take it quite as a matter of course.
我和他们进行了一两次讨论，因为除了圣歌和赞美诗曲调外，我从来不会在周日唱歌（我的钱包里一直有数）；其中我很遗憾地说我忘记了歌词，所以我只能唱曲子。他们似乎没有什么宗教感情，甚至从来没有听说过安息日这个神圣的制度，所以他们把我遵守安息日的行为归咎于我的闷闷不乐，他们说每到第七天我就会感到闷闷不乐。 。但他们都很宽容，其中一个人很友善地对我说，她知道有时很难控制住闷闷不乐的情绪，只是她认为如果情况变得更严重，我应该去看某人——这是我的建议。然后我就不懂了，尽管我假装认为这是理所当然的。

Once only did Yram treat me in a way that was unkind and unreasonable,—at least so I thought it at the time. It happened thus. I had been playing fives in the garden and got much heated. Although the day was cold, for autumn was now advancing, and Cold Harbour (as the name of the town in which my prison was should be translated) stood fully 3000 feet above the sea, I had played without my coat and waistcoat, and took a sharp chill on resting myself too long in the open air without protection. The next day I had a severe cold and felt really poorly. Being little used even to the lightest ailments, and thinking that it would be rather nice to be petted and cossetted by Yram, I certainly did not make myself out to be any better than I was; in fact, I remember that I made the worst of things, and took it into my head to consider myself upon the sick list. When Yram brought me my breakfast I complained somewhat dolefully of my indisposition, expecting the sympathy and humouring which I should have received from my mother and sisters at home. Not a bit of it. She fired up in an instant, and asked me what I meant by it, and how I dared to presume to mention such a thing, especially when I considered in what place I was. She had the best mind to tell her father, only that she was afraid the consequences would be so very serious for me. Her manner was so injured and decided, and her anger so evidently unfeigned, that I forgot my cold upon the spot, begging her by all means to tell her father if she wished to do so, and telling her that I had no idea of being shielded by her from anything whatever; presently mollifying, after having said as many biting things as I could, I asked her what it was that I had done amiss, and promised amendment as soon as ever I became aware of it. She saw that I was really ignorant, and had had no intention of being rude to her; whereon it came out that illness of any sort was considered in Erewhon to be highly criminal and immoral; and that I was liable, even for catching cold, to be had up before the magistrates and imprisoned for a considerable period—an announcement which struck me dumb with astonishment.
亚拉姆只曾以一种不友善和不合理的方式对待我——至少我当时是这么认为的。事情就这样发生了。我当时在花园里玩五人制足球，非常激动。虽然天气很冷，但秋天已经来临，冷港（我的监狱所在的小镇的名字应该翻译成这个名字）位于海拔 3000 英尺的地方，我玩的时候没有穿外套和背心，带着在没有任何保护的情况下在露天休息太久，我感到一阵强烈的寒意。第二天我得了重感冒，感觉很不舒服。即使是最轻微的小病，我也不太习惯，并且认为被伊拉姆宠爱和宠爱会很好，所以我当然没有表现得比实际情况更好。事实上，我记得我做了最坏的事情，并把自己列入了生病名单上。当亚拉姆给我送早餐时，我有些悲伤地抱怨自己身体不好，期待着从家里的母亲和姐妹那里得到的同情和幽默。一点也没有。她顿时火冒三丈，问我这是什么意思，我怎么敢冒昧地说出这样的事情，尤其是当我考虑到自己处于什么位置时。她极力想告诉她父亲，只是她怕我的后果会非常严重。她的态度如此受伤和坚决，她的愤怒显然是不假装的，我当场忘记了我的感冒，恳求她无论如何都告诉她父亲，如果她愿意的话，并告诉她我不知道受到她的保护，免受任何伤害；在说了尽可能多的尖酸刻薄的话之后，我很快平静下来，问她我做错了什么，并承诺一旦我意识到这一点，我就会立即改正。 她看我实在是无知，并无意对她无礼；由此得出的结论是，在埃雷洪，任何形式的疾病都被视为高度犯罪和不道德的行为。而且，即使是感冒了，我也可能会被带到地方法官面前，并被监禁相当长的一段时间——这一消息让我惊讶得说不出话来。

I followed up the conversation as well as my imperfect knowledge of the language would allow, and caught a glimmering of her position with regard to ill-health; but I did not even then fully comprehend it, nor had I as yet any idea of the other extraordinary perversions of thought which existed among the Erewhonians, but with which I was soon to become familiar. I propose, therefore, to make no mention of what passed between us on this occasion, save that we were reconciled, and that she brought me surreptitiously a hot glass of spirits and water before I went to bed, as also a pile of extra blankets, and that next morning I was quite well. I never remember to have lost a cold so rapidly.
我以我不完善的语言知识继续谈话，并瞥见了她关于健康状况不佳的立场。但当时我还没有完全理解它，而且我对埃雷洪尼亚人中存在的其他异常的思想扭曲也一无所知，但我很快就会熟悉它们。因此，我建议不要提及这次我们之间发生的事情，除了我们和解了，以及她在我睡觉前偷偷地给我带来了一杯热酒和水，还有一堆额外的毯子。 ，第二天早上我就很好了。我从来不记得感冒这么快就消失了。

This little affair explained much which had hitherto puzzled me. It seemed that the two men who were examined before the magistrates on the day of my arrival in the country, had been given in charge on account of ill health, and were both condemned to a long term of imprisonment with hard labour; they were now expiating their offence in this very prison, and their exercise ground was a yard separated by my fives wall from the garden in which I walked. This accounted for the sounds of coughing and groaning which I had often noticed as coming from the other side of the wall: it was high, and I had not dared to climb it for fear the jailor should see me and think that I was trying to escape; but I had often wondered what sort of people they could be on the other side, and had resolved on asking the jailor; but I seldom saw him, and Yram and I generally found other things to talk about.
这件小事解释了许多至今令我困惑的事情。我抵达该国当天，在地方法官面前受审的那两个人似乎是因为健康状况不佳而被任命为负责人的，并且两人都被判处长期苦役监禁。他们现在就在这座监狱里赎罪，他们的操场距离我散步的花园仅一码，与我的五米墙之隔。这解释了我经常注意到从墙的另一边传来的咳嗽和呻吟的声音：墙很高，我不敢爬上去，因为担心狱卒看到我并认为我在试图爬上去。逃脱;但我经常想知道对方会是什么样的人，并决定去问狱卒。但我很少见到他，而且我和伊拉姆通常会找其他事情来谈论。

Another month flew by, during which I made such progress in the language that I could understand all that was said to me, and express myself with tolerable fluency. My instructor professed to be astonished with the progress I had made; I was careful to attribute it to the pains he had taken with me and to his admirable method of explaining my difficulties, so we became excellent friends.
又一个月过去了，在此期间，我的语言取得了很大的进步，我可以理解对我说的所有内容，并可以相当流利地表达自己的意思。我的导师声称对我所取得的进步感到惊讶。我小心翼翼地把这归因于他为我付出的痛苦以及他解释我的困难的令人钦佩的方法，所以我们成为了很好的朋友。

My visitors became more and more frequent. Among them there were some, both men and women, who delighted me entirely by their simplicity, unconsciousness of self, kindly genial manners, and last, but not least, by their exquisite beauty; there came others less well-bred, but still comely and agreeable people, while some were snobs pure and simple.
我的访客变得越来越频繁。他们当中有一些人，无论是男人还是女人，他们的单纯、无私、和蔼可亲的举止，以及最后但并非最不重要的一点是他们精致的美丽，让我非常高兴。还有一些人虽然没有那么有教养，但仍然很漂亮、和蔼可亲，而另一些人则是纯粹的势利小人。

At the end of the third month the jailor and my instructor came together to visit me and told me that communications had been received from the Government to the effect that if I had behaved well and seemed generally reasonable, and if there could be no suspicion at all about my bodily health and vigour, and if my hair was really light, and my eyes blue and complexion fresh, I was to be sent up at once to the metropolis in order that the King and Queen might see me and converse with me; but that when I arrived there I should be set at liberty, and a suitable allowance would be made me. My teacher also told me that one of the leading merchants had sent me an invitation to repair to his house and to consider myself his guest for as long a time as I chose. ‘He is a delightful man,’ continued the interpreter, ‘but has suffered terribly from’ (here there came a long word which I could not quite catch, only it was much longer than kleptomania), ‘and has but lately recovered from embezzling a large sum of money under singularly distressing circumstances; but he has quite got over it, and the straighteners say that he has made a really wonderful recovery; you are sure to like him.’
第三个月末，狱卒和我的指导员一起来探望我，并告诉我，已收到政府的来信，大意是，我是否表现良好，看起来大体上讲得通，是否有任何可疑之处。一切都与我的身体健康和活力有关，如果我的头发真的很浅，我的眼睛是蓝色的，肤色清新，我将立即被送往大都市，以便国王和王后可以看到我并与我交谈；但当我到达那里时，我应该获得自由，并且会得到适当的津贴。我的老师还告诉我，一位主要商人向我发出了一份邀请，邀请我去他的房子修理，并在我选择的时间内将自己视为他的客人。 “他是一个令人愉快的人，”翻译继续说道，“但是却遭受了可怕的痛苦”（这里出现了一个很长的词，我听不懂，只是它比盗窃癖长得多），“而且最近才从贪污中恢复过来。”在极其困难的情况下获得一大笔钱；但他已经完全康复了，矫正师说他恢复得非常好。你一定会喜欢他的。

CHAPTER IX: TO THE METROPOLIS
第九章：前往大都市

With the above words the good man left the room before I had time to express my astonishment at hearing such extraordinary language from the lips of one who seemed to be a reputable member of society. ‘Embezzle a large sum of money under singularly distressing circumstances!’ I exclaimed to myself, ‘and ask ME to go and stay with him! I shall do nothing of the sort—compromise myself at the very outset in the eyes of all decent people, and give the death-blow to my chances of either converting them if they are the lost tribes of Israel, or making money out of them if they are not! No. I will do anything rather than that.’ And when I next saw my teacher I told him that I did not at all like the sound of what had been proposed for me, and that I would have nothing to do with it. For by my education and the example of my own parents, and I trust also in some degree from inborn instinct, I have a very genuine dislike for all unhandsome dealings in money matters, though none can have a greater regard for money than I have, if it be got fairly.
说完上述话，这位好心人就离开了房间，我还没来得及表达我对从一个似乎是社会上有信誉的成员嘴里听到如此非同寻常的语言的惊讶。 “在极其痛苦的情况下贪污了一大笔钱！”我对自己喊道，“让我去和他呆在一起！”我不会做这样的事情——从一开始就在所有正派人的眼中妥协，并给我致命一击，如果他们是以色列失落的部落，我要么改变他们的信仰，要么从他们身上赚钱如果他们不是！不。我会做任何事情而不是那样。’当我下次见到我的老师时，我告诉他我一点也不喜欢为我提出的建议，而且我不会参与其中。因为根据我所受的教育和我父母的榜样，而且我在某种程度上也出于与生俱来的本能，我非常厌恶所有在金钱问题上的不正当交易，尽管没有人比我更尊重金钱，如果公平的话。

The interpreter was much surprised by my answer, and said that I should be very foolish if I persisted in my refusal.
翻译对我的回答感到非常惊讶，并说如果我坚持拒绝，那我就太愚蠢了。

Mr. Nosnibor, he continued, ‘is a man of at least 500,000 horse- power’ (for their way of reckoning and classifying men is by the number of foot pounds which they have money enough to raise, or more roughly by their horse-power), ‘and keeps a capital table; besides, his two daughters are among the most beautiful women in Erewhon.’
他继续说，诺斯尼博尔先生“是一个至少拥有 500,000 马力的人”（因为他们对人进行计算和分类的方式是根据他们有足够的钱筹集的英尺磅数，或者更粗略地说是根据他们的马数——权力），“并保留资本表；此外，他的两个女儿是埃里洪最美丽的女人之一。

When I heard all this, I confess that I was much shaken, and inquired whether he was favourably considered in the best society.
当我听到这一切时，我承认我很震惊，并询问他是否受到上流社会的青睐。

‘Certainly,’ was the answer; ‘no man in the country stands higher.’
答案是“当然”。 “这个国家没有人比他更高。”

He then went on to say that one would have thought from my manner that my proposed host had had jaundice or pleurisy or been generally unfortunate, and that I was in fear of infection.
然后他接着说，从我的态度中，人们会认为我提议的主人患有黄疸或胸膜炎，或者总体上很不幸，而我害怕感染。

‘I am not much afraid of infection,’ said I, impatiently, ‘but I have some regard for my character; and if I know a man to be an embezzler of other people’s money, be sure of it, I will give him as wide a berth as I can. If he were ill or poor—‘
“我不太害怕感染，”我不耐烦地说，“但我对自己的性格有些顾虑；如果我知道一个人贪污了别人的钱，我一定会尽可能对他敬而远之。如果他生病了或者很穷——”

‘Ill or poor!’ interrupted the interpreter, with a face of great alarm. ‘So that’s your notion of propriety! You would consort with the basest criminals, and yet deem simple embezzlement a bar to friendly intercourse. I cannot understand you.’
“病了还是穷了！”翻译打断道，脸上满是惊恐。 ‘这就是你的礼数观念！你会与最卑鄙的罪犯勾结，却认为简单的贪污行为就妨碍了友好往来。我无法理解你。'

‘But I am poor myself,’ cried I.
“可我自己也很穷，”我喊道。

‘You were,’ said he; ‘and you were liable to be severely punished for it,—indeed, at the council which was held concerning you, this fact was very nearly consigning you to what I should myself consider a well-deserved chastisement’ (for he was getting angry, and so was I); ‘but the Queen was so inquisitive, and wanted so much to see you, that she petitioned the King and made him give you his pardon, and assign you a pension in consideration of your meritorious complexion. It is lucky for you that he has not heard what you have been saying now, or he would be sure to cancel it.’
“你是的，”他说。 “你可能会因此受到严厉的惩罚——事实上，在为你举行的会议上，这一事实几乎让你受到了我自己认为当之无愧的惩罚”（因为他生气了，我也是）； “但是王后非常好奇，非常想见见你，所以她向国王请愿，请求他赦免你，并考虑到你的功绩，给你一份养老金。你很幸运，他现在没有听到你说的话，否则他肯定会取消它。

As I heard these words my heart sank within me. I felt the extreme difficulty of my position, and how wicked I should be in running counter to established usage. I remained silent for several minutes, and then said that I should be happy to accept the embezzler’s invitation,—on which my instructor brightened and said I was a sensible fellow. But I felt very uncomfortable. When he had left the room, I mused over the conversation which had just taken place between us, but I could make nothing out of it, except that it argued an even greater perversity of mental vision than I had been yet prepared for. And this made me wretched; for I cannot bear having much to do with people who think differently from myself. All sorts of wandering thoughts kept coming into my head. I thought of my master’s hut, and my seat upon the mountain side, where I had first conceived the insane idea of exploring. What years and years seemed to have passed since I had begun my journey!
当我听到这些话时，我的心沉了下去。我感到我的处境极其困难，我应该多么邪恶地违背既定的惯例。我沉默了几分钟，然后说我很乐意接受贪污犯的邀请，——这让我的导师高兴起来，说我是一个明智的人。但我感觉很不舒服。当他离开房间时，我沉思着我们之间刚刚发生的谈话，但我无法从中得出任何结论，只是它表明了一种比我尚未准备好的心理视觉更加反常的现象。这让我很可怜；因为我无法忍受与那些与我想法不同的人有太多来往。各种胡思乱想不断地涌入我的脑海。我想起了我主人的小屋，还有我在山边的座位，我就是在那里第一次萌生了探索的疯狂想法。自从我开始我的旅程以来，似乎已经过去了多少年啊！

I thought of my adventures in the gorge, and on the journey hither, and of Chowbok. I wondered what Chowbok told them about me when he got back,—he had done well in going back, Chowbok had. He was not handsome—nay, he was hideous; and it would have gone hardly with him. Twilight drew on, and rain pattered against the windows. Never yet had I felt so unhappy, except during three days of sea- sickness at the beginning of my voyage from England. I sat musing and in great melancholy, until Yram made her appearance with light and supper. She too, poor girl, was miserable; for she had heard that I was to leave them. She had made up her mind that I was to remain always in the town, even after my imprisonment was over; and I fancy had resolved to marry me though I had never so much as hinted at her doing so. So what with the distressingly strange conversation with my teacher, my own friendless condition, and Yram’s melancholy, I felt more unhappy than I can describe, and remained so till I got to bed, and sleep sealed my eyelids.
我想起了我在峡谷里的冒险经历、来这里的旅程以及乔博克。我想知道乔博克回来后告诉了他们关于我的事——他回去做得很好，乔博克做了。他并不英俊——不，他很丑陋。这对他来说几乎是不可能的。暮色渐浓，雨点敲打着窗户。我从来没有感到如此不快乐，除了在我从英国启程开始晕船的那三天之外。我坐着沉思，心情非常忧郁，直到亚拉姆带着光和晚餐出现。她，这个可怜的女孩，也很痛苦。因为她听说我要离开他们。她决定让我永远留在城里，即使在我的监禁结束后也是如此。我想我已经决定嫁给我了，尽管我从来没有暗示过她这样做。那么，与我的老师进行的令人痛苦而奇怪​​的谈话，我自己没有朋友的状况，以及亚拉姆的忧郁，我感到比我无法形容的更不快乐，并且一直如此，直到我上床睡觉，睡着了我的眼睑。

On awaking next morning I was much better. It was settled that I was to make my start in a conveyance which was to be in waiting for me at about eleven o’clock; and the anticipation of change put me in good spirits, which even the tearful face of Yram could hardly altogether derange. I kissed her again and again, assured her that we should meet hereafter, and that in the meanwhile I should be ever mindful of her kindness. I gave her two of the buttons off my coat and a lock of my hair as a keepsake, taking a goodly curl from her own beautiful head in return: and so, having said good-bye a hundred times, till I was fairly overcome with her great sweetness and her sorrow, I tore myself away from her and got down-stairs to the caleche which was in waiting. How thankful I was when it was all over, and I was driven away and out of sight. Would that I could have felt that it was out of mind also! Pray heaven that it is so now, and that she is married happily among her own people, and has forgotten me!
第二天早上醒来时，我好多了。我决定乘坐一辆交通工具出发，该交通工具将于十一点左右等待我。对变化的期待让我心情很好，即使是伊拉姆泪流满面的脸也无法完全扰乱我的心情。我一次又一次地吻她，向她保证我们以后一定会见面，同时我应该永远铭记她的善意。我把我外套上的两颗扣子和一绺头发送给她作为纪念品，并从她美丽的头上剪下一缕漂亮的卷发作为回报：就这样，说了一百次再见，直到我完全被面对她的甜蜜和悲伤，我挣脱了她的束缚，下了楼，走向等候着的马车。当一切都结束时，我是多么庆幸，我被赶走了，消失在人们的视线中。要是我也能感觉到它是心不在焉就好了！祈求上天保佑她现在能和自己的人民幸福地结婚，并把我忘记了！

And now began a long and tedious journey with which I should hardly trouble the reader if I could. He is safe, however, for the simple reason that I was blindfolded during the greater part of the time. A bandage was put upon my eyes every morning, and was only removed at night when I reached the inn at which we were to pass the night. We travelled slowly, although the roads were good. We drove but one horse, which took us our day’s journey from morning till evening, about six hours, exclusive of two hours’ rest in the middle of the day. I do not suppose we made above thirty or thirty-five miles on an average. Each day we had a fresh horse. As I have said already, I could see nothing of the country. I only know that it was level, and that several times we had to cross large rivers in ferry-boats. The inns were clean and comfortable. In one or two of the larger towns they were quite sumptuous, and the food was good and well cooked. The same wonderful health and grace and beauty prevailed everywhere.
现在开始了漫长而乏味的旅程，如果可以的话，我不会打扰读者。然而，他很安全，原因很简单，因为我大部分时间都被蒙住眼睛。每天早上，我的眼睛上都会缠上绷带，直到晚上，当我到达我们过夜的旅馆时，才将绷带取下。尽管路况很好，但我们还是走得很慢。我们只骑了一匹马，一天的行程从早到晚，大约需要六个小时，还不包括中午的两个小时休息时间。我认为我们的平均行驶里程不会超过三十或三十五英里。每天我们都有一匹新鲜的马。正如我已经说过的，我看不到这个国家的任何东西。我只知道那里是水平的，有几次我们不得不乘渡船渡过大河。旅馆干净舒适。在一两个较大的城镇里，食物相当丰盛，食物很好，煮得很好。同样美妙的健康、优雅和美丽到处都盛行。

I found myself an object of great interest; so much so, that the driver told me he had to keep our route secret, and at times to go to places that were not directly on our road, in order to avoid the press that would otherwise have awaited us. Every evening I had a reception, and grew heartily tired of having to say the same things over and over again in answer to the same questions, but it was impossible to be angry with people whose manners were so delightful. They never once asked after my health, or even whether I was fatigued with my journey; but their first question was almost invariably an inquiry after my temper, the naivete of which astonished me till I became used to it. One day, being tired and cold, and weary of saying the same thing over and over again, I turned a little brusquely on my questioner and said that I was exceedingly cross, and that I could hardly feel in a worse humour with myself and every one else than at that moment. To my surprise, I was met with the kindest expressions of condolence, and heard it buzzed about the room that I was in an ill temper; whereon people began to give me nice things to smell and to eat, which really did seem to have some temper-mending quality about them, for I soon felt pleased and was at once congratulated upon being better. The next morning two or three people sent their servants to the hotel with sweetmeats, and inquiries whether I had quite recovered from my ill humour. On receiving the good things I felt in half a mind to be ill-tempered every evening; but I disliked the condolences and the inquiries, and found it most comfortable to keep my natural temper, which is smooth enough generally.
我发现自己是一个非常有趣的对象；以至于司机告诉我，他必须对我们的路线保密，有时还要去一些不直接在我们路上的地方，以避免等待我们的媒体。每天晚上我都要参加招待会，不得不一遍又一遍地说同样的话来回答同样的问题，我对此感到非常厌倦，但我不可能对那些举止如此令人愉快的人生气。他们从来没有问过我的健康状况，甚至没有问过我旅途是否疲劳；但他们的第一个问题几乎总是询问我的脾气，这种天真让我感到惊讶，直到我习惯了。有一天，我又累又冷，又厌倦了一遍又一遍地说同样的话，我有点粗鲁地转向提问者，说我非常生气，而且我对自己和每个人都没有比这更糟糕的幽默感了。除了那一刻之外还有另外一个。令我惊讶的是，我得到了最善意的哀悼，并听到房间里嗡嗡作响，说我脾气不好；于是人们开始给我一些好闻的东西和好吃的东西，这似乎确实具有某种治愈脾气的品质，因为我很快就感到高兴，并立即祝贺我变得更好了。第二天一早，有两三个人派仆人带着甜食来到旅馆，询问我的坏心情是否已经好转了。收到好东西后，我每天晚上都觉得心情不好；但我不喜欢哀悼和询问，我觉得保持我的自然脾气最舒服，一般来说，我的脾气很平稳。

Among those who came to visit me were some who had received a liberal education at the Colleges of Unreason, and taken the highest degrees in hypothetics, which are their principal study. These gentlemen had now settled down to various employments in the country, as straighteners, managers and cashiers of the Musical Banks, priests of religion, or what not, and carrying their education with them they diffused a leaven of culture throughout the country. I naturally questioned them about many of the things which had puzzled me since my arrival. I inquired what was the object and meaning of the statues which I had seen upon the plateau of the pass. I was told that they dated from a very remote period, and that there were several other such groups in the country, but none so remarkable as the one which I had seen. They had a religious origin, having been designed to propitiate the gods of deformity and disease. In former times it had been the custom to make expeditions over the ranges, and capture the ugliest of Chowbok’s ancestors whom they could find, in order to sacrifice them in the presence of these deities, and thus avert ugliness and disease from the Erewhonians themselves. It had been whispered (but my informant assured me untruly) that centuries ago they had even offered up some of their own people who were ugly or out of health, in order to make examples of them; these detestable customs, however, had been long discontinued; neither was there any present observance of the statues.
在那些来拜访我的人中，有些人在非理性学院接受过文科教育，并获得了假设学的最高学位，这是他们的主要研究领域。这些先生们现在已经在这个国家定居下来，从事各种工作，比如音乐银行的矫直师、经理和出纳员、宗教牧师等等，他们带着他们所受的教育，在全国各地传播了文化的酵母。我很自然地向他们询问了许多自从我到达以来一直困扰我的事情。我询问我在山口高原上看到的雕像的目的和意义是什么。有人告诉我，他们的历史可以追溯到非常遥远的时期，国内还有其他几个这样的团体，但没有一个比我所见过的那个团体更引人注目。它们具有宗教起源，旨在安抚畸形和疾病之神。从前，人们有一种习俗，就是对山脉进行探险，捕获他们能找到的最丑陋的乔博克祖先，以便在这些神灵面前将他们献祭，从而避免埃雷洪人本身的丑陋和疾病。有人私下传言（但我的线人向我保证不真实），几个世纪前，他们甚至牺牲了一些丑陋或不健康的自己的人民，以便为他们树立榜样。然而，这些令人憎恶的习俗早已停止。目前也没有对这些雕像进行任何纪念活动。

I had the curiosity to inquire what would be done to any of Chowbok’s tribe if they crossed over into Erewhon. I was told that nobody knew, inasmuch as such a thing had not happened for ages. They would be too ugly to be allowed to go at large, but not so much so as to be criminally liable. Their offence in having come would be a moral one; but they would be beyond the straightener’s art. Possibly they would be consigned to the Hospital for Incurable Bores, and made to work at being bored for so many hours a day by the Erewhonian inhabitants of the hospital, who are extremely impatient of one another’s boredom, but would soon die if they had no one whom they might bore—in fact, that they would be kept as professional borees. When I heard this, it occurred to me that some rumours of its substance might perhaps have become current among Chowbok’s people; for the agony of his fear had been too great to have been inspired by the mere dread of being burnt alive before the statues.
我很好奇，想知道如果乔博克的部落的任何一个人越过埃里翁，他们会怎么做。有人告诉我，没有人知道，因为这样的事情已经很久没有发生了。他们长得太丑，不能逍遥法外，但也不会严重到要承担刑事责任。他们的到来是一种道德上的冒犯。但它们超出了矫直器的技术范围。他们可能会被送往无法治愈的无聊医院，并被医院里的埃雷洪尼亚居民每天强迫工作好几个小时，他们对彼此的无聊极其不耐烦，但如果他们没有无聊，他们很快就会死去他们可能会讨厌的人——事实上，他们会被当作职业的讨厌者。当我听到这个消息时，我突然想到，关于其实质内容的一些谣言可能已经在乔博克的人民中流传开来。因为他的恐惧带来的痛苦太大了，不可能仅仅因为害怕在雕像前被活活烧死而受到启发。

I also questioned them about the museum of old machines, and the cause of the apparent retrogression in all arts, sciences, and inventions. I learnt that about four hundred years previously, the state of mechanical knowledge was far beyond our own, and was advancing with prodigious rapidity, until one of the most learned professors of hypothetics wrote an extraordinary book (from which I propose to give extracts later on), proving that the machines were ultimately destined to supplant the race of man, and to become instinct with a vitality as different from, and superior to, that of animals, as animal to vegetable life. So convincing was his reasoning, or unreasoning, to this effect, that he carried the country with him; and they made a clean sweep of all machinery that had not been in use for more than two hundred and seventy-one years (which period was arrived at after a series of compromises), and strictly forbade all further improvements and inventions under pain of being considered in the eye of the law to be labouring under typhus fever, which they regard as one of the worst of all crimes.
我还向他们询问了旧机器博物馆的情况，以及所有艺术、科学和发明明显倒退的原因。我了解到，大约四百年前，机械知识的水平远远超出了我们的水平，并且正在以惊人的速度前进，直到一位最博学的假设学教授写了一本非凡的书（我打算稍后提供其中的摘录） ），证明机器最终注定要取代人类，并成为本能，其生命力不同于动物，但又优于动物，就像动物与植物的生命一样。就这一点而言，他的推理或不推理是如此令人信服，以至于他赢得了国家的支持。他们对所有已经超过两百七十一年（这一时期是经过一系列妥协之后才达到的）不再使用的机器进行了彻底的清理，并严格禁止一切进一步的改进和发明，否则将被处以死刑。从法律的角度来看，他们被认为患有斑疹伤寒，他们认为斑疹伤寒是所有罪行中最严重的罪行之一。

This is the only case in which they have confounded mental and physical diseases, and they do it even here as by an avowed legal fiction. I became uneasy when I remembered about my watch; but they comforted me with the assurance that transgression in this matter was now so unheard of, that the law could afford to be lenient towards an utter stranger, especially towards one who had such a good character (they meant physique), and such beautiful light hair. Moreover the watch was a real curiosity, and would be a welcome addition to the metropolitan collection; so they did not think I need let it trouble me seriously.
这是他们将精神疾病和身体疾病混为一谈的唯一案例，即使在这里，他们也是通过公开的法律虚构来做到这一点的。当我想起我的手表时，我感到不安。但他们安慰我，保证这件事上的违法行为现在已经闻所未闻，法律可以对一个完全陌生的人宽大处理，特别是对一个性格如此好的人（他们指的是体格）和如此美丽的光芒的人头发。此外，这款手表确实是一件令人好奇的事情，并且将成为大都会收藏中受欢迎的补充。所以他们认为我不需要让它严重困扰我。

I will write, however, more fully upon this subject when I deal with the Colleges of Unreason, and the Book of the Machines.
然而，当我讨论《非理性学院》和《机器之书》时，我将更全面地讨论这个主题。

In about a month from the time of our starting I was told that our journey was nearly over. The bandage was now dispensed with, for it seemed impossible that I should ever be able to find my way back without being captured. Then we rolled merrily along through the streets of a handsome town, and got on to a long, broad, and level road, with poplar trees on either side. The road was raised slightly above the surrounding country, and had formerly been a railway; the fields on either side were in the highest conceivable cultivation, but the harvest and also the vintage had been already gathered. The weather had got cooler more rapidly than could be quite accounted for by the progress of the season; so I rather thought that we must have been making away from the sun, and were some degrees farther from the equator than when we started. Even here the vegetation showed that the climate was a hot one, yet there was no lack of vigour among the people; on the contrary, they were a very hardy race, and capable of great endurance. For the hundredth time I thought that, take them all round, I had never seen their equals in respect of physique, and they looked as good- natured as they were robust. The flowers were for the most part over, but their absence was in some measure compensated for by a profusion of delicious fruit, closely resembling the figs, peaches, and pears of Italy and France. I saw no wild animals, but birds were plentiful and much as in Europe, but not tame as they had been on the other side the ranges. They were shot at with the cross-bow and with arrows, gunpowder being unknown, or at any rate not in use.
从我们出发大约一个月后，我被告知我们的旅程即将结束。现在绷带已经被去掉了，因为我似乎不可能在不被抓获的情况下找到回去的路。然后我们欢快地穿过一座美丽小镇的街道，走上一条又长又宽又平坦的路，路两旁都是白杨树。这条路略高于周围的乡村，以前是一条铁路。两边的田地都处于可以想象的最高耕种状态，但庄稼和葡萄已经收完了。天气变冷的速度比季节的进展所能完全解释的要快。所以我宁愿认为我们一定是在远离太阳，并且距离赤道比我们开始时更远了一些。即使这里的植被显示出气候炎热，但人们却并不缺乏活力；相反，他们是一个非常吃苦耐劳的种族，具有很强的耐力。我第一百次想到，放眼望去，我从未见过他们的体格能与他们相媲美，而且他们看起来脾气很好，而且很强壮。花朵大部分已经开放，但它们的缺席在某种程度上被大量美味的水果所弥补，这些水果与意大利和法国的无花果、桃子和梨非常相似。我没有看到野生动物，但鸟类数量很多，和欧洲一样，但不像山脉另一边那样驯服。他们被十字弓和箭射杀，火药不明，或者至少没有使用过。

We were now nearing the metropolis and I could see great towers and fortifications, and lofty buildings that looked like palaces. I began to be nervous as to my reception; but I had got on very well so far, and resolved to continue upon the same plan as hitherto— namely, to behave just as though I were in England until I saw that I was making a blunder, and then to say nothing till I could gather how the land lay. We drew nearer and nearer. The news of my approach had got abroad, and there was a great crowd collected on either side the road, who greeted me with marks of most respectful curiosity, keeping me bowing constantly in acknowledgement from side to side.
我们现在已经接近大都市了，我可以看到巨大的塔楼和防御工事，以及看起来像宫殿的高耸建筑。我开始对自己的接待感到紧张。但到目前为止，我相处得很好，并决定继续执行迄今为止的相同计划——即，表现得就像我在英国一样，直到我发现自己犯了一个错误，然后什么也不说，直到我可以收集土地的分布情况。我们越来越近了。我即将到来的消息已经传到了国外，路两边都聚集了一大群人，他们用最恭敬的好奇心向我打招呼，让我不停地鞠躬致谢。

When we were about a mile off, we were met by the Mayor and several Councillors, among whom was a venerable old man, who was introduced to me by the Mayor (for so I suppose I should call him) as the gentleman who had invited me to his house. I bowed deeply and told him how grateful I felt to him, and how gladly I would accept his hospitality. He forbade me to say more, and pointing to his carriage, which was close at hand, he motioned me to a seat therein. I again bowed profoundly to the Mayor and Councillors, and drove off with my entertainer, whose name was Senoj Nosnibor. After about half a mile the carriage turned off the main road, and we drove under the walls of the town till we reached a palazzo on a slight eminence, and just on the outskirts of the city. This was Senoj Nosnibor’s house, and nothing can be imagined finer. It was situated near the magnificent and venerable ruins of the old railway station, which formed an imposing feature from the gardens of the house. The grounds, some ten or a dozen acres in extent, were laid out in terraced gardens, one above the other, with flights of broad steps ascending and descending the declivity of the garden. On these steps there were statues of most exquisite workmanship. Besides the statues there were vases filled with various shrubs that were new to me; and on either side the flights of steps there were rows of old cypresses and cedars, with grassy alleys between them. Then came choice vineyards and orchards of fruit-trees in full bearing.
当我们离我们大约一英里时，市长和几位议员迎接了我们，其中有一位德高望重的老人，市长（我想我应该这么称呼他）向我介绍了他，他是邀请我们的绅士。我去他家。我深深地鞠了一躬，告诉他我是多么感激他，并且我多么高兴接受他的盛情款待。他不许我多说，指着近在咫尺的马车，示意我坐下。我再次向市长和议员深深鞠了一躬，然后和我的艺人一起开车离开了，他的名字叫Senoj Nosnibor。大约半英里后，马车驶离主干道，我们在城墙下行驶，直到到达一座位于城市郊区稍高处的宫殿。这是 Senoj Nosnibor 的房子，没有什么比这更好的了。它坐落在宏伟而古老的旧火车站遗址附近，与房子的花园形成了一道壮丽的风景。占地约十英亩或十几英亩的土地被布置在梯田花园中，一个在另一个之上，一段宽阔的台阶沿着花园的斜坡上升和下降。这些台阶上矗立着做工最精美的雕像。除了雕像之外，还有花瓶，里面装满了对我来说很陌生的各种灌木。台阶两边长着一排排老柏树和雪松，它们之间有长满青草的小巷。然后是精选的葡萄园和果树丰收的果园。

The house itself was approached by a court-yard, and round it was a corridor on to which rooms opened, as at Pompeii. In the middle of the court there was a bath and a fountain. Having passed the court we came to the main body of the house, which was two stories in height. The rooms were large and lofty; perhaps at first they looked rather bare of furniture, but in hot climates people generally keep their rooms more bare than they do in colder ones. I missed also the sight of a grand piano or some similar instrument, there being no means of producing music in any of the rooms save the larger drawing-room, where there were half a dozen large bronze gongs, which the ladies used occasionally to beat about at random. It was not pleasant to hear them, but I have heard quite as unpleasant music both before and since.
房子本身有一个庭院，周围有一条走廊，房间通向走廊，就像庞贝古城一样。庭院中央有一个浴室和一个喷泉。穿过庭院，我们来到了两层楼高的房屋主体。房间又大又高。也许一开始他们看起来相当空荡荡的家具，但在炎热的气候下，人们通常比在寒冷的气候下更空荡荡的房间。我还错过了三角钢琴或类似乐器的景象，除了较大的客厅外，任何房间都没有办法演奏音乐，客厅里有六个大青铜锣，女士们偶尔会用它们来敲击大约是随机的。听到这些声音并不令人愉快，但我之前和之后都听到过同样令人不愉快的音乐。

Mr. Nosnibor took me through several spacious rooms till we reached a boudoir where were his wife and daughters, of whom I had heard from the interpreter. Mrs. Nosnibor was about forty years old, and still handsome, but she had grown very stout: her daughters were in the prime of youth and exquisitely beautiful. I gave the preference almost at once to the younger, whose name was Arowhena; for the elder sister was haughty, while the younger had a very winning manner. Mrs. Nosnibor received me with the perfection of courtesy, so that I must have indeed been shy and nervous if I had not at once felt welcome. Scarcely was the ceremony of my introduction well completed before a servant announced that dinner was ready in the next room. I was exceedingly hungry, and the dinner was beyond all praise. Can the reader wonder that I began to consider myself in excellent quarters? ‘That man embezzle money?’ thought I to myself; ‘impossible.’
诺斯尼博尔先生带我穿过几个宽敞的房间，直到我们到达一间闺房，那里住着他的妻子和女儿，我是从翻译那里听到她们的消息的。诺斯尼博尔夫人四十岁左右，依然英俊潇洒，但已经变得很胖了：她的女儿们正值青春年华，非常美丽。我几乎立刻就优先选择了较年轻的，她的名字叫阿罗维纳（Arowhena）。因为姐姐很傲慢，而妹妹则很有征服欲。诺斯尼博尔夫人以完美的礼貌接待了我，因此，如果我没有立即感受到受欢迎的话，我一定会感到害羞和紧张。我的介绍仪式刚结束，仆人就宣布隔壁房间准备好了晚餐。我实在是太饿了，晚餐真是太棒了。读者是否会好奇我开始认为自己处于优秀的地位？ “那个人贪污了钱？”我心里想。 '不可能的。'

But I noticed that my host was uneasy during the whole meal, and that he ate nothing but a little bread and milk; towards the end of dinner there came a tall lean man with a black beard, to whom Mr. Nosnibor and the whole family paid great attention: he was the family straightener. With this gentleman Mr. Nosnibor retired into another room, from which there presently proceeded a sound of weeping and wailing. I could hardly believe my ears, but in a few minutes I got to know for a certainty that they came from Mr. Nosnibor himself.
但我注意到主人整顿饭都很不安，只吃了一点面包和牛奶；晚饭快结束时，来了一个高高瘦瘦、留着黑胡子的男人，诺斯尼博尔先生和全家人都对他十分关注：他是家里的矫正者。诺斯尼博尔先生和这位先生一起退到了另一个房间，那里立刻传来哭泣和哀号的声音。我简直不敢相信自己的耳朵，但几分钟后我就确信这些声音来自诺斯尼伯先生本人。

‘Poor papa,’ said Arowhena, as she helped herself composedly to the salt, ‘how terribly he has suffered.’
“可怜的爸爸，”阿罗维娜一边平静地取盐，一边说道，“他受了多么可怕的痛苦啊。”

‘Yes,’ answered her mother; ‘but I think he is quite out of danger now.’
“是的，”她母亲回答道。 “但我认为他现在已经脱离危险了。”

Then they went on to explain to me the circumstances of the case, and the treatment which the straightener had prescribed, and how successful he had been—all which I will reserve for another chapter, and put rather in the form of a general summary of the opinions current upon these subjects than in the exact words in which the facts were delivered to me; the reader, however, is earnestly requested to believe that both in this next chapter and in those that follow it I have endeavoured to adhere most conscientiously to the strictest accuracy, and that I have never willingly misrepresented, though I may have sometimes failed to understand all the bearings of an opinion or custom.
然后他们继续向我解释案件的情况、矫直器规定的治疗方法以及他的治疗效果如何——所有这些我将在另一章中保留，并以一般总结的形式提出。关于这些主题的当前观点，而不是向我传达事实的确切文字；然而，恳请读者相信，无论是在下一章还是在其后的章节中，我都尽力严格遵守最严格的准确性，并且我从未故意歪曲，尽管有时我可能无法理解意见或习俗的所有方位。

CHAPTER X: CURRENT OPINIONS
第十章：当前观点

This is what I gathered. That in that country if a man falls into ill health, or catches any disorder, or fails bodily in any way before he is seventy years old, he is tried before a jury of his countrymen, and if convicted is held up to public scorn and sentenced more or less severely as the case may be. There are subdivisions of illnesses into crimes and misdemeanours as with offences amongst ourselves—a man being punished very heavily for serious illness, while failure of eyes or hearing in one over sixty-five, who has had good health hitherto, is dealt with by fine only, or imprisonment in default of payment. But if a man forges a cheque, or sets his house on fire, or robs with violence from the person, or does any other such things as are criminal in our own country, he is either taken to a hospital and most carefully tended at the public expense, or if he is in good circumstances, he lets it be known to all his friends that he is suffering from a severe fit of immorality, just as we do when we are ill, and they come and visit him with great solicitude, and inquire with interest how it all came about, what symptoms first showed themselves, and so forth,—questions which he will answer with perfect unreserve; for bad conduct, though considered no less deplorable than illness with ourselves, and as unquestionably indicating something seriously wrong with the individual who misbehaves, is nevertheless held to be the result of either pre-natal or post-natal misfortune.
这是我收集到的。在那个国家，如果一个人在七十岁之前健康状况不佳，或者患上任何疾病，或者身体出现任何问题，他就会在他的同胞组成的陪审团面前接受审判，如果被定罪，他就会受到公众的蔑视和嘲笑。根据具体情况，判处较重或较轻的刑罚。疾病分为犯罪和轻罪，就像我们之间的犯罪行为一样——一个人因重病而受到严厉的惩罚，而六十五岁以上的人，如果迄今为止健康状况良好，则眼睛或听力丧失，将受到罚款或因拖欠付款而被监禁。但是，如果一个人伪造支票，或者放火烧毁他的房子，或者暴力抢劫，或者做出任何其他在我们国家属于犯罪的行为，那么他要么被送往医院，要么在医院接受最仔细的治疗。公共开支，或者如果他状况良好，他会让所有朋友都知道他患有严重的不道德行为，就像我们生病时一样，他们会非常关心地来看望他，并饶有兴趣地询问这一切是如何发生的，首先出现什么症状，等等，他会毫无保留地回答这些问题；因为不良行为虽然被认为与我们自己的疾病一样令人遗憾，并且毫无疑问地表明行为不端的人存在严重问题，但仍然被认为是产前或产后不幸的结果。

The strange part of the story, however, is that though they ascribe moral defects to the effect of misfortune either in character or surroundings, they will not listen to the plea of misfortune in cases that in England meet with sympathy and commiseration only. Ill luck of any kind, or even ill treatment at the hands of others, is considered an offence against society, inasmuch as it makes people uncomfortable to hear of it. Loss of fortune, therefore, or loss of some dear friend on whom another was much dependent, is punished hardly less severely than physical delinquency.
然而，这个故事的奇怪之处在于，尽管他们将道德缺陷归咎于性格或环境的不幸，但在英国只得到同情和怜悯的情况下，他们却不会倾听不幸的恳求。任何形式的厄运，甚至受到他人的虐待，都被认为是对社会的冒犯，因为这会让人们听到它感到不舒服。因此，失去财富，或者失去另一个人非常依赖的亲密朋友，所受到的惩罚几乎不亚于身体犯罪。

Foreign, indeed, as such ideas are to our own, traces of somewhat similar opinions can be found even in nineteenth-century England. If a person has an abscess, the medical man will say that it contains ‘peccant’ matter, and people say that they have a ‘bad’ arm or finger, or that they are very ‘bad’ all over, when they only mean ‘diseased.’ Among foreign nations Erewhonian opinions may be still more clearly noted. The Mahommedans, for example, to this day, send their female prisoners to hospitals, and the New Zealand Maories visit any misfortune with forcible entry into the house of the offender, and the breaking up and burning of all his goods. The Italians, again, use the same word for ‘disgrace’ and ‘misfortune.’ I once heard an Italian lady speak of a young friend whom she described as endowed with every virtue under heaven, ‘ma,’ she exclaimed, ‘povero disgraziato, ha ammazzato suo zio.’ (“Poor unfortunate fellow, he has murdered his uncle.’)
事实上，虽然这些观念对我们来说是陌生的，但即使在十九世纪的英国也能找到多少类似观点的痕迹。如果一个人有脓肿，医生会说它含有“腐败”物质，人们会说他们的手臂或手指“不好”，或者全身都很“不好”，而他们的意思只是“在外国中，埃雷洪尼亚的观点可能更容易被注意到。例如，伊斯兰教徒至今仍将女囚犯送往医院，而新西兰毛利人则强行进入罪犯的家中，并打碎并烧毁他的所有物品，以应对任何不幸。意大利人再次使用同一个词来表示“耻辱”和“不幸”。我曾经听到一位意大利女士谈到一位年轻的朋友，她形容他拥有天下所有的美德，“妈”，她惊呼道，“povero disgraziato” , ha ammazzato suo zio。”（“可怜的不幸的家伙，他谋杀了他的叔叔。”）

On mentioning this, which I heard when taken to Italy as a boy by my father, the person to whom I told it showed no surprise. He said that he had been driven for two or three years in a certain city by a young Sicilian cabdriver of prepossessing manners and appearance, but then lost sight of him. On asking what had become of him, he was told that he was in prison for having shot at his father with intent to kill him—happily without serious result. Some years later my informant again found himself warmly accosted by the prepossessing young cabdriver. ‘Ah, caro signore,’ he exclaimed, ‘sono cinque anni che non lo vedo—tre anni di militare, e due anni di disgrazia,’ &c. (“My dear sir, it is five years since I saw you—three years of military service, and two of misfortune’)—during which last the poor fellow had been in prison. Of moral sense he showed not so much as a trace. He and his father were now on excellent terms, and were likely to remain so unless either of them should again have the misfortune mortally to offend the other.
当我还是个孩子的时候，我被父亲带去意大利时听到了这件事，听我讲述这件事的人并没有表现出任何惊讶。他说，他曾在某个城市被一位举止和外表都很讨人喜欢的西西里年轻出租车司机开车了两三年，但后来就再也见不到他了。在询问他的情况时，他被告知他因向父亲开枪意图杀死他而入狱——幸运的是没有造成严重后果。几年后，我的线人再次发现自己受到了那位迷人的年轻出租车司机的热情搭讪。 “啊，卡罗先生，”他喊道，“sono cinque anni che non lo vedo——tre anni di militare，e due anni di disgrazia，”等等。 （“亲爱的先生，自从我见到你以来，已经五年了——三年的兵役，两年的不幸”）——最后这个可怜的家伙一直在监狱里。他没有表现出任何道德感。他和他的父亲现在关系很好，而且很可能会一直如此，除非他们中的任何一个再次不幸得罪对方。

In the following chapter I will give a few examples of the way in which what we should call misfortune, hardship, or disease are dealt with by the Erewhonians, but for the moment will return to their treatment of cases that with us are criminal. As I have already said, these, though not judicially punishable, are recognised as requiring correction. Accordingly, there exists a class of men trained in soul-craft, whom they call straighteners, as nearly as I can translate a word which literally means ‘one who bends back the crooked.’ These men practise much as medical men in England, and receive a quasi-surreptitious fee on every visit. They are treated with the same unreserve, and obeyed as readily, as our own doctors—that is to say, on the whole sufficiently—because people know that it is their interest to get well as soon as they can, and that they will not be scouted as they would be if their bodies were out of order, even though they may have to undergo a very painful course of treatment.
在下一章中，我将举几个例子，说明埃雷洪人处理我们所谓的不幸、困难或疾病的方式，但现在我们将回到他们对我们来说是犯罪案件的处理方式。正如我已经说过的，这些虽然不会受到司法惩罚，但被认为需要纠正。因此，存在着一类受过灵魂技艺训练的人，他们称之为矫直者，我可以翻译一个词，字面意思是“使弯曲的人弯曲。”这些人在英国的实践就像医生一样，并且每次访问都会收取准秘密费用。他们受到与我们自己的医生一样的毫无保留的对待，并且像我们自己的医生一样乐意服从——也就是说，总体上足够了——因为人们知道尽快康复是他们的利益，而且他们不会即使他们可能必须经历非常痛苦的治疗过程，但如果他们的身体出了问题，他们也会被侦察。

When I say that they will not be scouted, I do not mean that an Erewhonian will suffer no social inconvenience in consequence, we will say, of having committed fraud. Friends will fall away from him because of his being less pleasant company, just as we ourselves are disinclined to make companions of those who are either poor or poorly. No one with any sense of self-respect will place himself on an equality in the matter of affection with those who are less lucky than himself in birth, health, money, good looks, capacity, or anything else. Indeed, that dislike and even disgust should be felt by the fortunate for the unfortunate, or at any rate for those who have been discovered to have met with any of the more serious and less familiar misfortunes, is not only natural, but desirable for any society, whether of man or brute.
当我说他们不会被侦察时，我并不是说埃雷洪人不会因为我们所说的欺诈行为而遭受社会不便。朋友会因为他不那么令人愉快而远离他，就像我们自己不愿意与那些贫穷或贫穷的人做朋友一样。任何一个有自尊心的人都不会在感情问题上与那些在出身、健康、金钱、美貌、能力或其他方面不如自己幸运的人平等对待。事实上，幸运者对不幸者，或者至少是那些被发现遭遇过更严重和不太熟悉的不幸的人，应该感到不喜欢甚至厌恶，这不仅是自然的，而且对任何人来说都是可取的。社会，无论是人社会还是畜生社会。

The fact, therefore, that the Erewhonians attach none of that guilt to crime which they do to physical ailments, does not prevent the more selfish among them from neglecting a friend who has robbed a bank, for instance, till he has fully recovered; but it does prevent them from even thinking of treating criminals with that contemptuous tone which would seem to say, ‘I, if I were you, should be a better man than you are,’ a tone which is held quite reasonable in regard to physical ailment. Hence, though they conceal ill health by every cunning and hypocrisy and artifice which they can devise, they are quite open about the most flagrant mental diseases, should they happen to exist, which to do the people justice is not often. Indeed, there are some who are, so to speak, spiritual valetudinarians, and who make themselves exceedingly ridiculous by their nervous supposition that they are wicked, while they are very tolerable people all the time. This however is exceptional; and on the whole they use much the same reserve or unreserve about the state of their moral welfare as we do about our health.
因此，事实上，埃雷洪人并不像对待身体疾病那样将罪责归咎于犯罪，但这并不能阻止他们中更自私的人忽视一个抢劫银行的朋友，例如，直到他完全康复为止；但它确实阻止他们想到用那种轻蔑的语气对待罪犯，这种语气似乎是在说，“如果我是你，我应该是一个比你更好的人”，这种语气在身体方面是相当合理的。病痛。因此，尽管他们用一切狡猾、虚伪和诡计来掩盖健康状况不佳，但他们却对最明目张胆的精神疾病（如果碰巧存在的话）持开放态度，而为人民伸张正义并不常见。确实，有些人可以说是精神上的衰弱者，他们因紧张地认为自己是邪恶的而使自己变得极其可笑，而实际上他们一直都是非常可以容忍的人。然而，这是例外的；总体而言，他们对自己的道德福利状况的保留或不保留与我们对健康的保留或无保留几乎相同。

Hence all the ordinary greetings among ourselves, such as, How do you do? and the like, are considered signs of gross ill-breeding; nor do the politer classes tolerate even such a common complimentary remark as telling a man that he is looking well. They salute each other with, ‘I hope you are good this morning;’ or ‘I hope you have recovered from the snappishness from which you were suffering when I last saw you;’ and if the person saluted has not been good, or is still snappish, he says so at once and is condoled with accordingly. Indeed, the straighteners have gone so far as to give names from the hypothetical language (as taught at the Colleges of Unreason), to all known forms of mental indisposition, and to classify them according to a system of their own, which, though I could not understand it, seemed to work well in practice; for they are always able to tell a man what is the matter with him as soon as they have heard his story, and their familiarity with the long names assures him that they thoroughly understand his case.
因此，我们之间所有的普通问候都是如此，例如，你好吗？等等，被认为是严重不良教养的迹象；礼貌阶层也不会容忍像告诉一个男人他看起来很好这样常见的赞美之词。他们互相打招呼，“我希望你今天早上一切都好”；或者“我希望你已经从我上次见到你时所遭受的暴躁中恢复过来了；”如果打招呼的人表现不好，或者是他仍然脾气暴躁，立刻这么说了，并得到了相应的哀悼。事实上，矫正者们甚至用假设的语言（如非理性学院所教授的）给所有已知的精神不适形式命名，并根据他们自己的系统对它们进行分类，尽管我看不懂，实践起来好像效果很好；因为他们总是能够在听完一个人的故事后立即告诉他发生了什么事，而且他们对长名字的熟悉使他确信他们完全了解他的情况。

The reader will have no difficulty in believing that the laws regarding ill health were frequently evaded by the help of recognised fictions, which every one understood, but which it would be considered gross ill-breeding to even seem to understand. Thus, a day or two after my arrival at the Nosnibors’, one of the many ladies who called on me made excuses for her husband’s only sending his card, on the ground that when going through the public market- place that morning he had stolen a pair of socks. I had already been warned that I should never show surprise, so I merely expressed my sympathy, and said that though I had only been in the capital so short a time, I had already had a very narrow escape from stealing a clothes-brush, and that though I had resisted temptation so far, I was sadly afraid that if I saw any object of special interest that was neither too hot nor too heavy, I should have to put myself in the straightener’s hands.
读者会毫不费力地相信，关于健康不良的法律经常借助公认的虚构作品来逃避，这些虚构作品每个人都理解，但即使看起来理解，也会被认为是严重的无教养。因此，在我到达诺斯尼伯斯家一两天后，拜访我的众多女士中的一位为她丈夫只寄了他的名片找借口，理由是那天早上他经过公共市场时偷了东西。一双袜子。我已经被警告过不要表现出惊讶，所以我只是表达了我的同情，并说我虽然来京城的时间很短，但我已经九死一生地偷了一把衣刷，虽然到目前为止我已经抵制住了诱惑，但我很遗憾地担心，如果我看到任何特别感兴趣的物体，既不太热也不太重，我就不得不把自己放在直发器的手中。

Mrs. Nosnibor, who had been keeping an ear on all that I had been saying, praised me when the lady had gone. Nothing, she said, could have been more polite according to Erewhonian etiquette. She then explained that to have stolen a pair of socks, or ‘to have the socks’ (in more colloquial language), was a recognised way of saying that the person in question was slightly indisposed.
诺斯尼伯夫人一直在倾听我所说的一切，当那位女士走后，她称赞了我。她说，根据埃雷洪尼亚礼仪，没有什么比这更礼貌的了。然后她解释说，“偷了一双袜子”，或者“拥有袜子”（用更通俗的语言），是一种公认​​的表达方式，表示该人有点不舒服。

In spite of all this they have a keen sense of the enjoyment consequent upon what they call being ‘well.’ They admire mental health and love it in other people, and take all the pains they can (consistently with their other duties) to secure it for themselves. They have an extreme dislike to marrying into what they consider unhealthy families. They send for the straightener at once whenever they have been guilty of anything seriously flagitious— often even if they think that they are on the point of committing it; and though his remedies are sometimes exceedingly painful, involving close confinement for weeks, and in some cases the most cruel physical tortures, I never heard of a reasonable Erewhonian refusing to do what his straightener told him, any more than of a reasonable Englishman refusing to undergo even the most frightful operation, if his doctors told him it was necessary.
尽管如此，他们对他们所说的“健康”所带来的享受有着敏锐的感觉。他们钦佩并热爱其他人的心理健康，并尽一切努力（与他们的其他职责一致）来确保心理健康。为他们自己。他们非常不喜欢嫁给他们认为不健康的家庭。每当他们犯下严重的罪行时，他们就会立即派人去矫正——通常即使他们认为自己即将犯下这种罪行；尽管他的治疗方法有时非常痛苦，包括数周的严密监禁，有时甚至是最残酷的肉体折磨，但我从未听说过一个理智的埃雷洪人拒绝做他的矫正器告诉他的事情，就像一个理智的英国人拒绝做他的矫直师告诉他的那样。如果医生告诉他有必要的话，他甚至可以接受最可怕的手术。

We in England never shrink from telling our doctor what is the matter with us merely through the fear that he will hurt us. We let him do his worst upon us, and stand it without a murmur, because we are not scouted for being ill, and because we know that the doctor is doing his best to cure us, and that he can judge of our case better than we can; but we should conceal all illness if we were treated as the Erewhonians are when they have anything the matter with them; we should do the same as with moral and intellectual diseases,—we should feign health with the most consummate art, till we were found out, and should hate a single flogging given in the way of mere punishment more than the amputation of a limb, if it were kindly and courteously performed from a wish to help us out of our difficulty, and with the full consciousness on the part of the doctor that it was only by an accident of constitution that he was not in the like plight himself. So the Erewhonians take a flogging once a week, and a diet of bread and water for two or three months together, whenever their straightener recommends it.
我们英国人从来不会仅仅因为担心医生会伤害我们而不敢告诉医生我们出了什么问题。我们让他对我们做最坏的事，并且毫无怨言地忍受着，因为我们没有因为生病而被发现，因为我们知道医生正在尽最大努力治愈我们，而且他比其他人更能判断我们的情况。我们可以;但是，如果我们像埃瑞洪人一样，在他们有任何问题时受到对待，我们就应该隐瞒所有疾病。我们应该像对待道德和智力疾病那样做，——我们应该用最完美的艺术假装健康，直到我们被发现，并且应该憎恨仅仅以惩罚方式给予的鞭打，而不是截肢，如果这是出于帮助我们摆脱困境的愿望而仁慈而礼貌地进行的，并且医生充分意识到，他自己没有陷入同样的​​困境只是由于体质的意外。因此，埃雷洪人每周接受一次鞭打，并在两三个月内以面包和水为食，只要直发师建议这样做即可。

I do not suppose that even my host, on having swindled a confiding widow out of the whole of her property, was put to more actual suffering than a man will readily undergo at the hands of an English doctor. And yet he must have had a very bad time of it. The sounds I heard were sufficient to show that his pain was exquisite, but he never shrank from undergoing it. He was quite sure that it did him good; and I think he was right. I cannot believe that that man will ever embezzle money again. He may—but it will be a long time before he does so.
我不认为，即使是我的主人，在骗取了一位心腹的寡妇的全部财产后，所遭受的实际痛苦也不会比一个男人在英国医生手中所承受的痛苦还要多。但他一定过得很糟糕。我听到的声音足以表明他的痛苦是剧烈的，但他却从不退缩。他确信这对他有好处；我认为他是对的。我不敢相信那个人会再次贪污钱财。他可能会——但他需要很长时间才能这样做。

During my confinement in prison, and on my journey, I had already discovered a great deal of the above; but it still seemed surpassingly strange, and I was in constant fear of committing some piece of rudeness, through my inability to look at things from the same stand-point as my neighbours; but after a few weeks’ stay with the Nosnibors, I got to understand things better, especially on having heard all about my host’s illness, of which he told me fully and repeatedly.
在我入狱期间和旅途中，我已经发现了很多上述内容；但这似乎仍然非常奇怪，我一直担心自己会做出一些无礼的举动，因为我无法从与邻居相同的角度来看待事物。但在诺斯尼伯一家待了几周后，我对事情有了更好的了解，尤其是在听了我的主人的病情的全部信息之后，他向我详细地、反复地讲述了这些事情。

It seemed that he had been on the Stock Exchange of the city for many years and had amassed enormous wealth, without exceeding the limits of what was generally considered justifiable, or at any rate, permissible dealing; but at length on several occasions he had become aware of a desire to make money by fraudulent representations, and had actually dealt with two or three sums in a way which had made him rather uncomfortable. He had unfortunately made light of it and pooh-poohed the ailment, until circumstances eventually presented themselves which enabled him to cheat upon a very considerable scale;—he told me what they were, and they were about as bad as anything could be, but I need not detail them;—he seized the opportunity, and became aware, when it was too late, that he must be seriously out of order. He had neglected himself too long.
看来他在这座城市的证券交易所工作了很多年，积累了巨大的财富，但没有超出一般认为合理的限度，或者至少没有超出允许的交易限度；但最终有几次他意识到自己想通过欺诈性陈述来赚钱，并且实际上以一种让他感到相当不舒服的方式处理了两三笔钱。不幸的是，他对此轻描淡写，对这种疾病嗤之以鼻，直到情况最终出现，使他能够在相当大的范围内作弊；——他告诉我它们是什么，它们几乎是最糟糕的，但是我不需要详细说明它们；——他抓住了这个机会，并意识到，当为时已晚时，他一定是严重失常了。他已经忽视自己太久了。

He drove home at once, broke the news to his wife and daughters as gently as he could, and sent off for one of the most celebrated straighteners of the kingdom to a consultation with the family practitioner, for the case was plainly serious. On the arrival of the straightener he told his story, and expressed his fear that his morals must be permanently impaired.
他立即开车回家，尽可能温和地将这个消息告诉了他的妻子和女儿，并派人请王国最著名的直发师之一去咨询家庭医生，因为案件显然很严重。矫直机到来后，他讲述了自己的故事，并表示担心自己的道德将永远受到损害。

The eminent man reassured him with a few cheering words, and then proceeded to make a more careful diagnosis of the case. He inquired concerning Mr. Nosnibor’s parents—had their moral health been good? He was answered that there had not been anything seriously amiss with them, but that his maternal grandfather, whom he was supposed to resemble somewhat in person, had been a consummate scoundrel and had ended his days in a hospital,—while a brother of his father’s, after having led a most flagitious life for many years, had been at last cured by a philosopher of a new school, which as far as I could understand it bore much the same relation to the old as homoeopathy to allopathy. The straightener shook his head at this, and laughingly replied that the cure must have been due to nature. After a few more questions he wrote a prescription and departed.
这位知名人士用几句鼓励的话安抚了他，然后开始对这个病例进行更仔细的诊断。他询问了诺斯尼博尔先生的父母——他们的道德健康状况良好吗？他得到的答复是，他们并没有什么严重的问题，但是他的外祖父，他应该与外祖父有几分相似，是一个完美的恶棍，在医院结束了他的日子，而他的一个兄弟父亲的病情在经历了多年最恶劣的生活之后，终于被一位新学派的哲学家治愈了，据我所知，新学派与旧学派的关系就像顺势疗法与对抗疗法一样。直人闻言摇了摇头，笑道，这一定是自然的治愈。又问了几个问题后，他开了一张处方就离开了。

I saw the prescription. It ordered a fine to the State of double the money embezzled; no food but bread and milk for six months, and a severe flogging once a month for twelve. I was surprised to see that no part of the fine was to be paid to the poor woman whose money had been embezzled, but on inquiry I learned that she would have been prosecuted in the Misplaced Confidence Court, if she had not escaped its clutches by dying shortly after she had discovered her loss.
我看到了处方。它下令对州政府处以所贪污金额双倍的罚款；六个月内除了面包和牛奶外没有食物，十二个月内每月会受到一次严厉的鞭打。我很惊讶地发现，罚款的一部分没有支付给那个钱被挪用的可怜的女人，但经过询问，我得知，如果她没有逃脱法庭的魔掌，她就会在失信法庭受到起诉。她发现自己失去亲人后不久就去世了。

As for Mr. Nosnibor, he had received his eleventh flogging on the day of my arrival. I saw him later on the same afternoon, and he was still twinged; but there had been no escape from following out the straightener’s prescription, for the so-called sanitary laws of Erewhon are very rigorous, and unless the straightener was satisfied that his orders had been obeyed, the patient would have been taken to a hospital (as the poor are), and would have been much worse off. Such at least is the law, but it is never necessary to enforce it.
至于诺斯尼博尔先生，我到达的那天，他已经受到了第十一次鞭打。当天下午晚些时候，我见到了他，但他仍然感到刺痛。但必须遵守矫直师的处方，因为埃里洪所谓的卫生法非常严格，除非矫直师确信他的命令得到了遵守，否则病人就会被送往医院（如穷人），而且情况会更糟。至少法律是这样，但没有必要强制执行。

On a subsequent occasion I was present at an interview between Mr. Nosnibor and the family straightener, who was considered competent to watch the completion of the cure. I was struck with the delicacy with which he avoided even the remotest semblance of inquiry after the physical well-being of his patient, though there was a certain yellowness about my host’s eyes which argued a bilious habit of body. To have taken notice of this would have been a gross breach of professional etiquette. I was told, however, that a straightener sometimes thinks it right to glance at the possibility of some slight physical disorder if he finds it important in order to assist him in his diagnosis; but the answers which he gets are generally untrue or evasive, and he forms his own conclusions upon the matter as well as he can. Sensible men have been known to say that the straightener should in strict confidence be told of every physical ailment that is likely to bear upon the case; but people are naturally shy of doing this, for they do not like lowering themselves in the opinion of the straightener, and his ignorance of medical science is supreme. I heard of one lady, indeed, who had the hardihood to confess that a furious outbreak of ill-humour and extravagant fancies for which she was seeking advice was possibly the result of indisposition. ‘You should resist that,’ said the straightener, in a kind, but grave voice; ‘we can do nothing for the bodies of our patients; such matters are beyond our province, and I desire that I may hear no further particulars.’ The lady burst into tears, and promised faithfully that she would never be unwell again.
在随后的一次场合中，我参加了诺斯尼博尔先生和家庭矫正师的会面，他被认为有能力监督治疗的完成。令我震惊的是，他对病人的身体健康状况避而不谈，哪怕是最细微的询问，尽管我的主人的眼睛有些发黄，这说明他的身体习惯很坏。如果注意到这一点，那就严重违反了职业礼仪。然而，有人告诉我，矫直师有时会认为，如果他认为某种轻微的身体疾病的可能性对帮助他的诊断很重要，那么他就应该检查一下。但他得到的答案通常是不真实的或含糊其辞的，他尽可能地根据此事得出自己的结论。据了解，明智的人会说，应该严格保密地将可能影响案件的每一种身体疾病告知矫直师。但人们自然不愿意这样做，因为他们不喜欢在矫正者的意见中贬低自己，而他对医学的无知是至高无上的。事实上，我听说过一位女士，她勇敢地承认，她正在寻求建议的暴怒和奢侈的幻想可能是身体不适的结果。 “你应该抵制这种行为，”矫直师用一种友善但严肃的声音说道。 “我们对病人的身体无能为力；这些事情不属于我们的管辖范围，我希望不要再听到更多细节。”这位女士泪流满面，并忠实地保证她再也不会感到不适。

But to return to Mr. Nosnibor. As the afternoon wore on many carriages drove up with callers to inquire how he had stood his flogging. It had been very severe, but the kind inquiries upon every side gave him great pleasure, and he assured me that he felt almost tempted to do wrong again by the solicitude with which his friends had treated him during his recovery: in this I need hardly say that he was not serious.
回到诺斯尼博尔先生。下午过去了，许多马车开过来，来电者询问他是如何忍受鞭打的。虽然情况非常严峻，但各方的善意询问让他感到非常高兴，他向我保证，他的朋友们在他康复期间对他的关心让他几乎想再次做错事：在这一点上，我几乎不需要说他不认真。

During the remainder of my stay in the country Mr. Nosnibor was constantly attentive to his business, and largely increased his already great possessions; but I never heard a whisper to the effect of his having been indisposed a second time, or made money by other than the most strictly honourable means. I did hear afterwards in confidence that there had been reason to believe that his health had been not a little affected by the straightener’s treatment, but his friends did not choose to be over-curious upon the subject, and on his return to his affairs it was by common consent passed over as hardly criminal in one who was otherwise so much afflicted. For they regard bodily ailments as the more venial in proportion as they have been produced by causes independent of the constitution. Thus if a person ruin his health by excessive indulgence at the table or by drinking, they count it to be almost a part of the mental disease which brought it about, and so it goes for little, but they have no mercy on such illnesses as fevers or catarrhs or lung diseases, which to us appear to be beyond the control of the individual. They are only more lenient towards the diseases of the young—such as measles, which they think to be like sowing one’s wild oats—and look over them as pardonable indiscretions if they have not been too serious, and if they are atoned for by complete subsequent recovery.
在我留在该国的剩余时间里，诺斯尼博尔先生一直专注于他的生意，并大大增加了他本已庞大的财产。但我从来没有听到过任何关于他第二次身体不适的传言，或者说他除了最严格的光荣手段之外还通过其他方式赚钱。后来我确实私下听说，有理由相信他的健康受到直发器治疗的影响不小，但他的朋友们并没有选择对这个问题过度好奇，当他回到自己的事务中时，对于一个原本饱受折磨的人来说，这种行为被普遍认为不算犯罪。因为他们认为，身体疾病越是由独立于体质的原因引起的，就越是轻微的。因此，如果一个人因在餐桌上过度放纵或酗酒而损害了自己的健康，他们认为这几乎是造成这种疾病的精神疾病的一部分，所以这没什么关系，但他们对诸如此类的疾病却毫不怜悯。发烧、卡他或肺部疾病，在我们看来，这些似乎超出了个人的控制范围。他们只是对年轻人的疾病更加宽容，比如麻疹，他们认为这就像播种野燕麦一样，并且将其视为可以原谅的轻率行为，如果它们不是太严重的话，如果它们可以通过彻底的补救来弥补的话。随后的恢复。

It is hardly necessary to say that the office of straightener is one which requires long and special training. It stands to reason that he who would cure a moral ailment must be practically acquainted with it in all its bearings. The student for the profession of straightener is required to set apart certain seasons for the practice of each vice in turn, as a religious duty. These seasons are called ‘fasts,’ and are continued by the student until he finds that he really can subdue all the more usual vices in his own person, and hence can advise his patients from the results of his own experience.
毋庸置疑，矫直师的职位是一个需要长期、特殊培训的职位。按理说，想要治愈道德疾病的人必须实际上熟悉它的所有方面。作为一项宗教义务，矫直师专业的学生必须在特定的季节里轮流练习每种恶习。这些季节被称为“禁食”，并由学生继续进行，直到他发现自己确实可以克服自己身上所有更常见的恶习，因此可以根据自己的经验为患者提供建议。

Those who intend to be specialists, rather than general practitioners, devote themselves more particularly to the branch in which their practice will mainly lie. Some students have been obliged to continue their exercises during their whole lives, and some devoted men have actually died as martyrs to the drink, or gluttony, or whatever branch of vice they may have chosen for their especial study. The greater number, however, take no harm by the excursions into the various departments of vice which it is incumbent upon them to study.
那些想要成为专家而不是全科医生的人，会更加专注于他们主要从事的领域。有些学生一生都被迫继续锻炼，有些虔诚的人实际上因酗酒、暴食或他们为特殊学习而选择的任何恶习而殉道。然而，大多数人并没有因为涉足他们有责任研究的恶行的各个部门而受到伤害。

For the Erewhonians hold that unalloyed virtue is not a thing to be immoderately indulged in. I was shown more than one case in which the real or supposed virtues of parents were visited upon the children to the third and fourth generation. The straighteners say that the most that can be truly said for virtue is that there is a considerable balance in its favour, and that it is on the whole a good deal better to be on its side than against it; but they urge that there is much pseudo-virtue going about, which is apt to let people in very badly before they find it out. Those men, they say, are best who are not remarkable either for vice or virtue. I told them about Hogarth’s idle and industrious apprentices, but they did not seem to think that the industrious apprentice was a very nice person.
因为埃雷洪派认为，纯粹的美德并不是一件可以无节制地沉迷的事情。我蒙指示看到不止一个案例，在这些案例中，父母真正的或假定的美德一直传到第三代和第四代的孩子身上。矫正者们说，对于美德来说，最真实的说法是，在很大程度上有利于它，而且总体来说，站在它一边比反对它要好得多。但他们认为，存在着许多虚假的美德，这很容易让人们在发现之前就陷入非常糟糕的境地。他们说，那些在恶行或美德方面都不引人注目的人是最优秀的。我给他们讲了霍加斯的那些游手好闲又勤劳的学徒，但他们似乎并不认为那个勤劳的学徒是一个很好的人。

CHAPTER XI: SOME EREWHONIAN TRIALS
第十一章：一些埃雷霍尼亚的审判

In Erewhon as in other countries there are some courts of justice that deal with special subjects. Misfortune generally, as I have above explained, is considered more or less criminal, but it admits of classification, and a court is assigned to each of the main heads under which it can be supposed to fall. Not very long after I had reached the capital I strolled into the Personal Bereavement Court, and was much both interested and pained by listening to the trial of a man who was accused of having just lost a wife to whom he had been tenderly attached, and who had left him with three little children, of whom the eldest was only three years old.
与其他国家一样，埃里洪也有一些法院处理特殊问题。正如我上面所解释的，一般来说，不幸或多或少被认为是犯罪，但它允许分类，并且为每个主要类别分配了一个法院，可以认为它属于这些类别。到达首都后不久，我漫步走进个人丧亲法庭，聆听对一名男子的审判，既感兴趣又痛苦，这名男子被指控刚刚失去了他一直深爱的妻子。他给他留下了三个小孩，其中最大的只有三岁。

The defence which the prisoner’s counsel endeavoured to establish was, that the prisoner had never really loved his wife; but it broke down completely, for the public prosecutor called witness after witness who deposed to the fact that the couple had been devoted to one another, and the prisoner repeatedly wept as incidents were put in evidence that reminded him of the irreparable nature of the loss he had sustained. The jury returned a verdict of guilty after very little deliberation, but recommended the prisoner to mercy on the ground that he had but recently insured his wife’s life for a considerable sum, and might be deemed lucky inasmuch as he had received the money without demur from the insurance company, though he had only paid two premiums.
囚犯律师极力提出的辩护是，囚犯从未真正爱过他的妻子；但它完全崩溃了，因为检察官传唤了一个又一个证人，证人证明了这对夫妇彼此忠诚，而囚犯在事件被作为证据时不断哭泣，提醒他损失的不可挽回性他坚持了下来。陪审团在没有经过深思熟虑后就做出了有罪判决，但建议囚犯宽大处理，理由是他最近才为妻子投了一笔相当大的生命保险，而且可能被认为是幸运的，因为他毫无异议地收到了这笔钱。保险公司，尽管他只支付了两笔保费。

I have just said that the jury found the prisoner guilty. When the judge passed sentence, I was struck with the way in which the prisoner’s counsel was rebuked for having referred to a work in which the guilt of such misfortunes as the prisoner’s was extenuated to a degree that roused the indignation of the court.
我刚才说过，陪审团判定犯人有罪。当法官宣判时，令我震惊的是，囚犯的律师因提及一部作品而受到谴责，在该作品中，囚犯所遭受的不幸的罪责被减轻到了引起法庭愤慨的程度。

‘We shall have,’ said the judge, ‘these crude and subversionary books from time to time until it is recognised as an axiom of morality that luck is the only fit object of human veneration. How far a man has any right to be more lucky and hence more venerable than his neighbours, is a point that always has been, and always will be, settled proximately by a kind of higgling and haggling of the market, and ultimately by brute force; but however this may be, it stands to reason that no man should be allowed to be unlucky to more than a very moderate extent.’
法官说：“我们将时不时地拥有这些粗俗和颠覆性的书籍，直到人们承认运气是人类崇拜的唯一合适的对象这一道德公理为止。”一个人在多大程度上有权利比他的邻居更幸运并因此更受人尊敬，这个问题始终是、也将永远是通过市场的讨价还价，并最终通过蛮力来解决的。 ;但无论情况如何，按理说，任何人都不应该允许超过一定程度的不幸。”

Then, turning to the prisoner, the judge continued:- ‘You have suffered a great loss. Nature attaches a severe penalty to such offences, and human law must emphasise the decrees of nature. But for the recommendation of the jury I should have given you six months’ hard labour. I will, however, commute your sentence to one of three months, with the option of a fine of twenty-five per cent. of the money you have received from the insurance company.’
然后，法官转向囚犯继续说道：“你遭受了巨大的损失。”大自然对此类罪行给予严厉的惩罚，人类的法律必须强调大自然的法令。要不是陪审团的推荐，我应该给你六个月的苦役。不过，我会将你的刑期减为三个月，并可以选择处以百分之二十五的罚款。您从保险公司收到的钱。

The prisoner thanked the judge, and said that as he had no one to look after his children if he was sent to prison, he would embrace the option mercifully permitted him by his lordship, and pay the sum he had named. He was then removed from the dock.
囚犯感谢法官，并表示，如果他被送进监狱，就没有人照顾他的孩子，他会接受勋爵大人仁慈地允许他的选择，并支付他指定的金额。随后他被带离被告席。

The next case was that of a youth barely arrived at man’s estate, who was charged with having been swindled out of large property during his minority by his guardian, who was also one of his nearest relations. His father had been long dead, and it was for this reason that his offence came on for trial in the Personal Bereavement Court. The lad, who was undefended, pleaded that he was young, inexperienced, greatly in awe of his guardian, and without independent professional advice. ‘Young man,’ said the judge sternly, ‘do not talk nonsense. People have no right to be young, inexperienced, greatly in awe of their guardians, and without independent professional advice. If by such indiscretions they outrage the moral sense of their friends, they must expect to suffer accordingly.’ He then ordered the prisoner to apologise to his guardian, and to receive twelve strokes with a cat-of-nine- tails.
下一个案件是一名刚刚抵达男子庄园的年轻人，他被指控在未成年时被他的监护人（也是他最亲近的亲戚之一）骗取了大笔财产。他的父亲早已去世，正因如此，他的罪行才在个人丧亲法庭接受审判。这名小伙子毫无防备，他辩称自己年轻、缺乏经验，对监护人非常敬畏，也没有得到独立的专业建议。 “年轻人，”法官严厉地说，“别胡说八道。”人们没有权利年轻、缺乏经验、对监护人充满敬畏，并且没有独立的专业建议。如果他们的轻率行为触犯了朋友的道德感，他们必然会受到相应的痛苦。”然后他命令囚犯向他的监护人道歉，并用九尾猫打十二下。

But I shall perhaps best convey to the reader an idea of the entire perversion of thought which exists among this extraordinary people, by describing the public trial of a man who was accused of pulmonary consumption—an offence which was punished with death until quite recently. It did not occur till I had been some months in the country, and I am deviating from chronological order in giving it here; but I had perhaps better do so in order that I may exhaust this subject before proceeding to others. Moreover I should never come to an end were I to keep to a strictly narrative form, and detail the infinite absurdities with which I daily came in contact.
但我也许应该通过描述对一名被指控患有肺结核的人的公开审判（直到最近才被判处死刑的罪行）的公开审判，向读者传达这一非凡人物中存在的整个思想扭曲的想法。直到我在乡下呆了几个月后，这件事才发生，而我在这里讲述它时偏离了时间顺序；但我也许最好这样做，以便在继续讨论其他主题之前先把这个主题讲完。此外，如果我坚持严格的叙述形式，并详细描述我每天接触到的无限荒谬的事情，我就永远不会结束。

The prisoner was placed in the dock, and the jury were sworn much as in Europe; almost all our own modes of procedure were reproduced, even to the requiring the prisoner to plead guilty or not guilty. He pleaded not guilty, and the case proceeded. The evidence for the prosecution was very strong; but I must do the court the justice to observe that the trial was absolutely impartial. Counsel for the prisoner was allowed to urge everything that could be said in his defence: the line taken was that the prisoner was simulating consumption in order to defraud an insurance company, from which he was about to buy an annuity, and that he hoped thus to obtain it on more advantageous terms. If this could have been shown to be the case he would have escaped a criminal prosecution, and been sent to a hospital as for a moral ailment. The view, however, was one which could not be reasonably sustained, in spite of all the ingenuity and eloquence of one of the most celebrated advocates of the country. The case was only too clear, for the prisoner was almost at the point of death, and it was astonishing that he had not been tried and convicted long previously. His coughing was incessant during the whole trial, and it was all that the two jailors in charge of him could do to keep him on his legs until it was over.
囚犯被送上被告席，陪审团像在欧洲一样宣誓。几乎所有我们自己的程序模式都被复制，甚至要求囚犯认罪或不认罪。他不认罪，案件继续审理。控方的证据非常有力；但我必须公正地对待法庭，确保审判绝对公正。犯人的律师被允许提出一切可以为他辩护的内容：采取的说法是，犯人正在模拟消费，以诈骗一家保险公司，他正要从该公司购买年金，他希望这样以更有利的条件获得它。如果事实确实如此，他就可以逃脱刑事起诉，并因精神疾病而被送往医院。然而，尽管该国最著名的倡导者之一具有独创性和雄辩能力，但这种观点是无法合理维持的。案情再清楚不过了，犯人已经快要死了，而且令人惊讶的是他早就没有受到审判和定罪。在整个审判过程中，他一直在咳嗽，看守他的两名狱卒也竭尽全力让他保持站立状态，直到审判结束。

The summing up of the judge was admirable. He dwelt upon every point that could be construed in favour of the prisoner, but as he proceeded it became clear that the evidence was too convincing to admit of doubt, and there was but one opinion in the court as to the impending verdict when the jury retired from the box. They were absent for about ten minutes, and on their return the foreman pronounced the prisoner guilty. There was a faint murmur of applause, but it was instantly repressed. The judge then proceeded to pronounce sentence in words which I can never forget, and which I copied out into a note-book next day from the report that was published in the leading newspaper. I must condense it somewhat, and nothing which I could say would give more than a faint idea of the solemn, not to say majestic, severity with which it was delivered. The sentence was as follows:-
法官的总结令人钦佩。他仔细考虑了每一个可以被解释为有利于囚犯的观点，但随着他的继续，很明显，证据太有说服力，不容怀疑，当陪审团做出裁决时，法庭上对于即将做出的判决只有一种意见。从盒子里退休了。他们缺席了大约十分钟，回来后工头宣布囚犯有罪。一阵轻微的掌声响起，但立刻就被压下去了。然后，法官用我永远不会忘记的话语宣判，第二天我把主要报纸上发表的报道抄到笔记本上。我必须把它稍微浓缩一下，我所能说的任何一句话都只能隐约地让人感受到它的庄严，更不用说庄严，严肃了。判决如下：-

‘Prisoner at the bar, you have been accused of the great crime of labouring under pulmonary consumption, and after an impartial trial before a jury of your countrymen, you have been found guilty. Against the justice of the verdict I can say nothing: the evidence against you was conclusive, and it only remains for me to pass such a sentence upon you, as shall satisfy the ends of the law. That sentence must be a very severe one. It pains me much to see one who is yet so young, and whose prospects in life were otherwise so excellent, brought to this distressing condition by a constitution which I can only regard as radically vicious; but yours is no case for compassion: this is not your first offence: you have led a career of crime, and have only profited by the leniency shown you upon past occasions, to offend yet more seriously against the laws and institutions of your country. You were convicted of aggravated bronchitis last year: and I find that though you are now only twenty-three years old, you have been imprisoned on no less than fourteen occasions for illnesses of a more or less hateful character; in fact, it is not too much to say that you have spent the greater part of your life in a jail.
‘酒吧里的囚犯，你被指控犯有肺消耗劳动的重罪，经过你的同胞陪审团的公正审判，你被判有罪。对于判决的公正性，我无话可说：对你不利的证据是确凿的，我只需对你作出这样的判决，以满足法律的目的。这句话一定是非常严厉的。看到一个如此年轻的人，原本生活前景如此美好的人，却被一种我只能认为是极其邪恶的体质导致了这种令人痛苦的境地，我感到非常痛苦。但你的行为不值得同情：这不是你的第一次犯罪：你领导了犯罪生涯，并且只是从过去对你表现出的宽大处理中获利，更严重地违反了你的国家的法律和制度。去年你因严重支气管炎被判有罪：我发现，尽管你现在只有二十三岁，但你已经因或多或少可恶的疾病而被监禁了不下十四次；事实上，说你一生的大部分时间都是在监狱里度过的，并不过分。

‘It is all very well for you to say that you came of unhealthy parents, and had a severe accident in your childhood which permanently undermined your constitution; excuses such as these are the ordinary refuge of the criminal; but they cannot for one moment be listened to by the ear of justice. I am not here to enter upon curious metaphysical questions as to the origin of this or that— questions to which there would be no end were their introduction once tolerated, and which would result in throwing the only guilt on the tissues of the primordial cell, or on the elementary gases. There is no question of how you came to be wicked, but only this— namely, are you wicked or not? This has been decided in the affirmative, neither can I hesitate for a single moment to say that it has been decided justly. You are a bad and dangerous person, and stand branded in the eyes of your fellow-countrymen with one of the most heinous known offences.
“你可以这么说，你的父母身体不好，童年时遭遇过一场严重的事故，永久损害了你的体质；诸如此类的借口是罪犯通常的避难所；但正义的耳朵一刻也听不到他们的声音。我来这里并不是要讨论关于这个或那个的起源的好奇的形而上学问题——如果它们的引入一旦被容忍，这些问题将没有尽头，并且这将导致将唯一的罪责加在原始细胞的组织上，或基本气体。不问你是怎么邪恶的，只有一个问题，就是你邪恶不邪恶？这是肯定的决定，我也毫不犹豫地说，这是公正的决定。你是一个坏人和危险的人，在你的同胞眼中被打上了已知的最令人发指的罪行之一的烙印。

‘It is not my business to justify the law: the law may in some cases have its inevitable hardships, and I may feel regret at times that I have not the option of passing a less severe sentence than I am compelled to do. But yours is no such case; on the contrary, had not the capital punishment for consumption been abolished, I should certainly inflict it now.
“为法律辩护不是我的事：法律在某些情况下可能有其不可避免的困难，有时我可能会感到遗憾，因为我无法选择比我被迫做的更轻的判决。但你的情况并非如此；相反，如果消费的死刑没有被废除，我现在肯定应该判处它。

‘It is intolerable that an example of such terrible enormity should be allowed to go at large unpunished. Your presence in the society of respectable people would lead the less able-bodied to think more lightly of all forms of illness; neither can it be permitted that you should have the chance of corrupting unborn beings who might hereafter pester you. The unborn must not be allowed to come near you: and this not so much for their protection (for they are our natural enemies), as for our own; for since they will not be utterly gainsaid, it must be seen to that they shall be quartered upon those who are least likely to corrupt them.
“令人无法容忍的是，如此可怕的罪行却逍遥法外而不受惩罚。你出现在受人尊敬的社会中，会让身体较弱的人更加轻视各种形式的疾病；也不能让你有机会败坏未来可能困扰你的未出生的众生。绝对不允许未出生的孩子靠近你：这与其说是为了保护他们（因为他们是我们的天敌），不如说是为了我们自己；因为既然他们不会被完全否定，那么就必须注意，他们将被分到那些最不可能腐蚀他们的人身上。

‘But independently of this consideration, and independently of the physical guilt which attaches itself to a crime so great as yours, there is yet another reason why we should be unable to show you mercy, even if we were inclined to do so. I refer to the existence of a class of men who lie hidden among us, and who are called physicians. Were the severity of the law or the current feeling of the country to be relaxed never so slightly, these abandoned persons, who are now compelled to practise secretly and who can be consulted only at the greatest risk, would become frequent visitors in every household; their organisation and their intimate acquaintance with all family secrets would give them a power, both social and political, which nothing could resist. The head of the household would become subordinate to the family doctor, who would interfere between man and wife, between master and servant, until the doctors should be the only depositaries of power in the nation, and have all that we hold precious at their mercy. A time of universal dephysicalisation would ensue; medicine-vendors of all kinds would abound in our streets and advertise in all our newspapers. There is one remedy for this, and one only. It is that which the laws of this country have long received and acted upon, and consists in the sternest repression of all diseases whatsoever, as soon as their existence is made manifest to the eye of the law. Would that that eye were far more piercing than it is.
“但是，抛开这种考虑，抛开像你这样严重的罪行所带来的身体罪责，还有另一个原因说明我们不能对你表示怜悯，即使我们愿意这样做。我指的是隐藏在我们中间的一类人的存在，他们被称为医生。如果法律的严厉性或者国家目前的情绪能够稍微放松一些，那么这些被迫秘密行医、只有在冒着最大风险才能得到咨询的被遗弃者就会成为家家户户的常客。他们的组织以及对所有家庭秘密的熟悉将赋予他们一种任何人都无法抗拒的社会和政治权力。一家之主将成为家庭医生的下属，家庭医生会干涉夫妻之间、主仆之间，直到医生成为国家唯一的权力保管者，我们所珍视的一切都由他们摆布。 。一个普遍的非物质化时代将会随之而来。各种各样的药品供应商在我们的街道上随处可见，并在我们所有的报纸上做广告。对此有一种补救办法，而且只有一种。这是这个国家的法律长期以来所接受和执行的法律，它包括对所有疾病的最严厉镇压，只要它们的存在在法律上得到体现。如果那双眼睛比现在更加锐利就好了。

‘But I will enlarge no further upon things that are themselves so obvious. You may say that it is not your fault. The answer is ready enough at hand, and it amounts to this—that if you had been born of healthy and well-to-do parents, and been well taken care of when you were a child, you would never have offended against the laws of your country, nor found yourself in your present disgraceful position. If you tell me that you had no hand in your parentage and education, and that it is therefore unjust to lay these things to your charge, I answer that whether your being in a consumption is your fault or no, it is a fault in you, and it is my duty to see that against such faults as this the commonwealth shall be protected. You may say that it is your misfortune to be criminal; I answer that it is your crime to be unfortunate.
“但我不会进一步阐述那些本身如此明显的事情。你可能会说这不是你的错。答案已经唾手可得，大致就是这样的——如果你出生于健康富裕的父母，并且在你还是个孩子的时候受到很好的照顾，你就永远不会触犯法律。你的国家，也没有发现自己处于目前不光彩的境地。如果你告诉我，你的出身和教育与你无关，因此将这些事情归咎于你是不公正的，我的回答是，无论你是否患有肺病，都是你的错，这都是你的错。 ，我有责任确保联邦免受此类过失的侵害。你可能会说，犯罪是你的不幸；我的回答是，你的不幸就是你的罪过。

‘Lastly, I should point out that even though the jury had acquitted you—a supposition that I cannot seriously entertain—I should have felt it my duty to inflict a sentence hardly less severe than that which I must pass at present; for the more you had been found guiltless of the crime imputed to you, the more you would have been found guilty of one hardly less heinous—I mean the crime of having been maligned unjustly.
“最后，我应该指出，即使陪审团宣判你无罪——我不能认真考虑这一假设——我应该感到有责任判处比我目前必须通过的判决更严厉的判决；因为你越是被判无罪，你就越会被判犯有同样令人发指的罪行——我指的是受到不公正的诽谤。

‘I do not hesitate therefore to sentence you to imprisonment, with hard labour, for the rest of your miserable existence. During that period I would earnestly entreat you to repent of the wrongs you have done already, and to entirely reform the constitution of your whole body. I entertain but little hope that you will pay attention to my advice; you are already far too abandoned. Did it rest with myself, I should add nothing in mitigation of the sentence which I have passed, but it is the merciful provision of the law that even the most hardened criminal shall be allowed some one of the three official remedies, which is to be prescribed at the time of his conviction. I shall therefore order that you receive two tablespoonfuls of castor oil daily, until the pleasure of the court be further known.’
“因此，我毫不犹豫地判你入狱，并进行苦役，度过你悲惨的余生。在此期间我恳切地恳请你们悔改自己已经犯下的错误，彻底改造你们整个身体的体质。我不太希望你会注意我的建议；你已经被抛弃太多了。如果我自己决定的话，我不应该在减轻我已经通过的判决方面添加任何内容，但法律的仁慈规定是，即使是最顽固的罪犯也应被允许采取三种官方补救措施中的一种，即在他被定罪时规定的。因此，我将命令您每天接受两汤匙蓖麻油，直到法庭进一步了解为止。

When the sentence was concluded the prisoner acknowledged in a few scarcely audible words that he was justly punished, and that he had had a fair trial. He was then removed to the prison from which he was never to return. There was a second attempt at applause when the judge had finished speaking, but as before it was at once repressed; and though the feeling of the court was strongly against the prisoner, there was no show of any violence against him, if one may except a little hooting from the bystanders when he was being removed in the prisoners’ van. Indeed, nothing struck me more during my whole sojourn in the country, than the general respect for law and order.
判决结束后，囚犯用几句话几乎听不见的声音承认，他受到了公正的惩罚，他受到了公正的审判。然后他被转移到监狱，再也没有回来过。法官讲完后，有人再次鼓掌，但和之前一样，掌声立即被压制住了。尽管法庭对囚犯的态度是强烈反对的，但除了当他被押上囚犯的货车时，旁观者发出了一点小叫声之外，没有表现出任何针对他的暴力行为。事实上，在这个国家的整个逗留期间，没有什么比对法律和秩序的普遍尊重更让我印象深刻的了。

CHAPTER XII: MALCONTENTS
第十二章：恶意内容

I confess that I felt rather unhappy when I got home, and thought more closely over the trial that I had just witnessed. For the time I was carried away by the opinion of those among whom I was. They had no misgivings about what they were doing. There did not seem to be a person in the whole court who had the smallest doubt but that all was exactly as it should be. This universal unsuspecting confidence was imparted by sympathy to myself, in spite of all my training in opinions so widely different. So it is with most of us: that which we observe to be taken as a matter of course by those around us, we take as a matter of course ourselves. And after all, it is our duty to do this, save upon grave occasion.
我承认，当我回到家时，我感到相当不高兴，并且更加仔细地思考了我刚刚目睹的审判。有一段时间，我被那些与我同在的人的意见所左右。他们对自己所做的事情没有任何疑虑。整个朝廷里似乎没有一个人有半点怀疑，但一切都是理所应当的。这种普遍的、毫无戒心的信心是由对我自己的同情所赋予的，尽管我所受的训练所持的观点差异如此之大。我们大多数人都是如此：我们观察到周围人认为理所当然的事情，我们自己也认为是理所当然的。毕竟，除非有特殊情况，否则我们有责任这样做。

But when I was alone, and began to think the trial over, it certainly did strike me as betraying a strange and untenable position. Had the judge said that he acknowledged the probable truth, namely, that the prisoner was born of unhealthy parents, or had been starved in infancy, or had met with some accidents which had developed consumption; and had he then gone on to say that though he knew all this, and bitterly regretted that the protection of society obliged him to inflict additional pain on one who had suffered so much already, yet that there was no help for it, I could have understood the position, however mistaken I might have thought it. The judge was fully persuaded that the infliction of pain upon the weak and sickly was the only means of preventing weakness and sickliness from spreading, and that ten times the suffering now inflicted upon the accused was eventually warded off from others by the present apparent severity. I could therefore perfectly understand his inflicting whatever pain he might consider necessary in order to prevent so bad an example from spreading further and lowering the Erewhonian standard; but it seemed almost childish to tell the prisoner that he could have been in good health, if he had been more fortunate in his constitution, and been exposed to less hardships when he was a boy.
但当我独自一人并开始思考审判时，我确实觉得它背叛了一种奇怪且站不住脚的立场。如果法官说他承认可能的事实，即囚犯是由不健康的父母所生，或者在婴儿时期挨饿过，或者遇到了一些事故而发展为肺病，那么他是否承认了这一事实？如果他接着说，尽管他知道这一切，并且对社会的保护迫使他对一个已经遭受了如此多痛苦的人施加额外的痛苦而深感遗憾，但又没有任何帮助，我可以理解这个立场，无论我的想法多么错误。法官完全相信，对弱者和病人施加痛苦是防止虚弱和疾病蔓延的唯一方法，而现在对被告造成的十倍的痛苦最终通过目前明显的严厉程度而避免了其他人的痛苦。因此，我完全可以理解他会造成他认为必要的任何痛苦，以防止如此糟糕的例子进一步蔓延并降低埃雷洪尼亚的标准；但是告诉囚犯，如果他的体质比较幸运，并且在他还是个孩子的时候受到较少的苦难，他本来可以身体健康，这似乎有点幼稚。

I write with great diffidence, but it seems to me that there is no unfairness in punishing people for their misfortunes, or rewarding them for their sheer good luck: it is the normal condition of human life that this should be done, and no right-minded person will complain of being subjected to the common treatment. There is no alternative open to us. It is idle to say that men are not responsible for their misfortunes. What is responsibility? Surely to be responsible means to be liable to have to give an answer should it be demanded, and all things which live are responsible for their lives and actions should society see fit to question them through the mouth of its authorised agent.
我怀着极大的信心写下这篇文章，但在我看来，惩罚人们的不幸，或奖励他们的纯粹好运并没有什么不公平：这是人类生活的正常状况，应该这样做，没有权利——有头脑的人会抱怨受到普通待遇。我们别无选择。说男人不对自己的不幸负责是毫无意义的。什么是责任？当然，负责任意味着如果有人要求的话，有责任必须给出答案，并且如果社会认为适合通过其授权代理人的嘴提出质疑，所有生物都对其生命和行为负责。

What is the offence of a lamb that we should rear it, and tend it, and lull it into security, for the express purpose of killing it? Its offence is the misfortune of being something which society wants to eat, and which cannot defend itself. This is ample. Who shall limit the right of society except society itself? And what consideration for the individual is tolerable unless society be the gainer thereby? Wherefore should a man be so richly rewarded for having been son to a millionaire, were it not clearly provable that the common welfare is thus better furthered? We cannot seriously detract from a man’s merit in having been the son of a rich father without imperilling our own tenure of things which we do not wish to jeopardise; if this were otherwise we should not let him keep his money for a single hour; we would have it ourselves at once. For property is robbery, but then, we are all robbers or would-be robbers together, and have found it essential to organise our thieving, as we have found it necessary to organise our lust and our revenge. Property, marriage, the law; as the bed to the river, so rule and convention to the instinct; and woe to him who tampers with the banks while the flood is flowing.
我们养育一只羔羊，照料它，安抚它，使其处于安全状态，而只是为了杀死它，这有什么罪过呢？它的罪行是不幸地成为社会想要吃的东西，却无法保卫自己。这已经足够了。除了社会本身之外谁能限制社会的权利？除非社会因此成为受益者，否则对个人的什么考虑是可以容忍的？如果一个人是百万富翁的儿子，为什么会得到如此丰厚的回报，如果没有清楚地证明公共福利因此得到了更好的促进呢？我们不能严重贬低一个人作为一个富有父亲的儿子的优点，而不危及我们自己所不想危及的事物的保有权；如果不是这样，我们就不应该让他把钱保留一个小时；我们自己马上就能得到它。因为财产就是抢劫，但是，我们都是强盗或潜在的强盗，并且发现有必要组织我们的盗窃行为，就像我们发现有必要组织我们的欲望和复仇一样。财产、婚姻、法律；正如河床之于河床，规则与习俗之于本能；洪水泛滥时擅自破坏堤岸的人有祸了。

But to return. Even in England a man on board a ship with yellow fever is held responsible for his mischance, no matter what his being kept in quarantine may cost him. He may catch the fever and die; we cannot help it; he must take his chance as other people do; but surely it would be desperate unkindness to add contumely to our self-protection, unless, indeed, we believe that contumely is one of our best means of self-protection. Again, take the case of maniacs. We say that they are irresponsible for their actions, but we take good care, or ought to take good care, that they shall answer to us for their insanity, and we imprison them in what we call an asylum (that modern sanctuary!) if we do not like their answers. This is a strange kind of irresponsibility. What we ought to say is that we can afford to be satisfied with a less satisfactory answer from a lunatic than from one who is not mad, because lunacy is less infectious than crime.
但要回来。即使在英国，船上患有黄热病的男子也要对自己的不幸负责，无论他被隔离可能会付出什么代价。他可能会发烧而死；我们无能为力；他必须像其他人一样抓住机会；但是，如果我们确实认为侮辱是我们最好的自我保护手段之一，那么如果我们确实认为侮辱是我们最好的自我保护手段之一，那么在我们的自我保护中加入侮辱无疑是极其不仁慈的。再次以疯子为例。我们说他们对自己的行为不负责任，但我们会好好照顾，或者应该好好照顾，让他们为自己的疯狂行为向我们负责，并且我们将他们囚禁在我们所谓的庇护所（现代避难所！）中，如果我们不喜欢他们的答案。这是一种奇怪的不负责任。我们应该说的是，我们可以接受一个疯子的回答，而不是一个没有疯子的回答，因为疯子的传染性比犯罪小。

We kill a serpent if we go in danger by it, simply for being such and such a serpent in such and such a place; but we never say that the serpent has only itself to blame for not having been a harmless creature. Its crime is that of being the thing which it is: but this is a capital offence, and we are right in killing it out of the way, unless we think it more danger to do so than to let it escape; nevertheless we pity the creature, even though we kill it.
如果我们遇到危险，我们就会杀死一条蛇，仅仅因为在某个地方是这样那样的蛇；但我们从来没有说蛇不是无害的生物，这只能归咎于它自己。它的罪行在于它本来就是这样的东西：但这是一种死罪，我们把它杀掉是正确的，除非我们认为这样做比让它逃跑更危险；尽管如此，我们还是怜悯这个生物，尽管我们杀死了它。

But in the case of him whose trial I have described above, it was impossible that any one in the court should not have known that it was but by an accident of birth and circumstances that he was not himself also in a consumption; and yet none thought that it disgraced them to hear the judge give vent to the most cruel truisms about him. The judge himself was a kind and thoughtful person. He was a man of magnificent and benign presence. He was evidently of an iron constitution, and his face wore an expression of the maturest wisdom and experience; yet for all this, old and learned as he was, he could not see things which one would have thought would have been apparent even to a child. He could not emancipate himself from, nay, it did not even occur to him to feel, the bondage of the ideas in which he had been born and bred.
但就我上面所描述的对他的审判而言，法庭上的任何人都不可能不知道，他本人也患有肺痨病，这只是由于出生和环境的意外。然而，没有人认为听到法官说出有关他的最残酷的老话是让他们感到羞耻的。法官本人是一个善良、体贴的人。他是一个气度高尚、和蔼可亲的人。他的体格显然是钢铁般的，脸上带着最成熟的智慧和经验的表情。然而，尽管如此，尽管他年纪大了，学识渊博，但他却看不到人们认为即使是一个孩子也会明白的事情。他无法将自己从他出生和成长的观念的束缚中解放出来，不，他甚至没有想到去感受。

So was it also with the jury and bystanders; and—most wonderful of all—so was it even with the prisoner. Throughout he seemed fully impressed with the notion that he was being dealt with justly: he saw nothing wanton in his being told by the judge that he was to be punished, not so much as a necessary protection to society (although this was not entirely lost sight of), as because he had not been better born and bred than he was. But this led me to hope that he suffered less than he would have done if he had seen the matter in the same light that I did. And, after all, justice is relative.
陪审团和旁观者也是如此。而且——最美妙的是——即使是囚犯也是如此。在整个过程中，他似乎对自己受到公正对待的想法印象深刻：他认为法官告诉他要受到惩罚并没有任何肆意的地方，而不是对社会的必要保护（尽管这并没有完全丧失）看到），因为他没有比他更好的出生和教养。但这让我希望，如果他以与我相同的眼光看待这件事，他所遭受的痛苦会比他所承受的要少。毕竟，正义是相对的。

I may here mention that only a few years before my arrival in the country, the treatment of all convicted invalids had been much more barbarous than now, for no physical remedy was provided, and prisoners were put to the severest labour in all sorts of weather, so that most of them soon succumbed to the extreme hardships which they suffered; this was supposed to be beneficial in some ways, inasmuch as it put the country to less expense for the maintenance of its criminal class; but the growth of luxury had induced a relaxation of the old severity, and a sensitive age would no longer tolerate what appeared to be an excess of rigour, even towards the most guilty; moreover, it was found that juries were less willing to convict, and justice was often cheated because there was no alternative between virtually condemning a man to death and letting him go free; it was also held that the country paid in recommittals for its over-severity; for those who had been imprisoned even for trifling ailments were often permanently disabled by their imprisonment; and when a man had been once convicted, it was probable that he would seldom afterwards be off the hands of the country.
我可以在这里提到，就在我到达这个国家的前几年，所有被定罪的残疾人所受到的待遇比现在要野蛮得多，因为没有提供任何物理治疗，囚犯在各种天气条件下都被投入最艰苦的劳动。 ，因此他们中的大多数人很快就屈服于所遭受的极端苦难；这在某些方面被认为是有益的，因为它可以减少国家维持犯罪阶层的开支；但奢侈的增长导致了旧有严厉的放松，敏感的时代不再容忍看似过度的严格，即使是对最有罪的人也是如此。此外，人们发现，陪审团不太愿意定罪，正义常常受到欺骗，因为除了实际上判处一个人死刑和释放他之外，别无选择；还认为该国因其过分严重的行为而付出了重新承诺的代价；因为那些即使是因为小病而被监禁的人也常常因监禁而永久残疾；一个人一旦被定罪，很可能此后就很少会脱离国家的控制。

These evils had long been apparent and recognised; yet people were too indolent, and too indifferent to suffering not their own, to bestir themselves about putting an end to them, until at last a benevolent reformer devoted his whole life to effecting the necessary changes. He divided all illnesses into three classes— those affecting the head, the trunk, and the lower limbs—and obtained an enactment that all diseases of the head, whether internal or external, should be treated with laudanum, those of the body with castor-oil, and those of the lower limbs with an embrocation of strong sulphuric acid and water.
这些罪恶早已显而易见并为人们所认识。然而，人们太懒惰，对不属于他们自己的苦难太漠不关心，以至于没有鼓起勇气去结束它们，直到最后一位仁慈的改革者毕生致力于实现必要的改变。他把所有的疾病分为三类——影响头部、躯干和下肢的疾病——并制定了一个规定：所有头部的疾病，无论是内部的还是外部的，都应该用鸦片酊治疗，身体的疾病应该用蓖麻子治疗。油，下肢用浓硫酸和水擦洗。

It may be said that the classification was not sufficiently careful, and that the remedies were ill chosen; but it is a hard thing to initiate any reform, and it was necessary to familiarise the public mind with the principle, by inserting the thin end of the wedge first: it is not, therefore, to be wondered at that among so practical a people there should still be some room for improvement. The mass of the nation are well pleased with existing arrangements, and believe that their treatment of criminals leaves little or nothing to be desired; but there is an energetic minority who hold what are considered to be extreme opinions, and who are not at all disposed to rest contented until the principle lately admitted has been carried further.
可以说分类不够仔细，补救措施选择不当；但发起任何改革都是一件困难的事情，有必要通过首先插入楔子的细端来让公众熟悉这一原则：因此，在如此务实的人民中，这一点并不奇怪。应该还有一些改进的空间。全国人民对现有的安排感到非常满意，并相信他们对罪犯的对待几乎没有什么可改进的地方；但是，也有一小部分精力充沛的人持有被认为是极端的观点，并且在最近承认的原则得到进一步贯彻之前，他们根本不会满足。

I was at some pains to discover the opinions of these men, and their reasons for entertaining them. They are held in great odium by the generality of the public, and are considered as subverters of all morality whatever. The malcontents, on the other hand, assert that illness is the inevitable result of certain antecedent causes, which, in the great majority of cases, were beyond the control of the individual, and that therefore a man is only guilty for being in a consumption in the same way as rotten fruit is guilty for having gone rotten. True, the fruit must be thrown on one side as unfit for man’s use, and the man in a consumption must be put in prison for the protection of his fellow-citizens; but these radicals would not punish him further than by loss of liberty and a strict surveillance. So long as he was prevented from injuring society, they would allow him to make himself useful by supplying whatever of society’s wants he could supply. If he succeeded in thus earning money, they would have him made as comfortable in prison as possible, and would in no way interfere with his liberty more than was necessary to prevent him from escaping, or from becoming more severely indisposed within the prison walls; but they would deduct from his earnings the expenses of his board, lodging, surveillance, and half those of his conviction. If he was too ill to do anything for his support in prison, they would allow him nothing but bread and water, and very little of that.
我煞费苦心地想了解这些人的观点，以及他们招待他们的理由。他们受到公众的极大厌恶，并被认为是所有道德的颠覆者。另一方面，不满者则断言，疾病是某些先因的不可避免的结果，而在大多数情况下，这些先因是个人无法控制的，因此，一个人只有在患有肺病时才有罪。就像腐烂的水果因腐烂而有罪一样。诚然，这些水果必须被扔到一边，因为不适合人类使用，而为了保护他的同胞，患有肺病的人必须被关进监狱。但这些激进分子除了失去自由和严格监视之外不会对他进行进一步的惩罚。只要他不伤害社会，他们就会允许他通过满足社会的任何需求来使自己变得有用。如果他成功地赚到了钱，他们就会让他在监狱里过得尽可能舒服，并且不会以任何方式干涉他的自由，除非有必要阻止他越狱，或者防止他在监狱围墙内变得更加严重。但他们会从他的收入中扣除他的食宿、监视费用以及他定罪费用的一半。如果他病得太重，无法在监狱里做任何事情来维持生活，他们只会给他面包和水，而且很少。

They say that society is foolish in refusing to allow itself to be benefited by a man merely because he has done it harm hitherto, and that objection to the labour of the diseased classes is only protection in another form. It is an attempt to raise the natural price of a commodity by saying that such and such persons, who are able and willing to produce it, shall not do so, whereby every one has to pay more for it.
他们说，社会愚蠢地拒绝让自己受益于一个人，仅仅因为他迄今为止对社会造成了伤害，而反对病态阶级的劳动只是另一种形式的保护。它试图通过规定有能力并愿意生产该商品的人不得生产该商品，从而提高商品的自然价格，从而使每个人都必须为此付出更多的代价。

Besides, so long as a man has not been actually killed he is our fellow-creature, though perhaps a very unpleasant one. It is in a great degree the doing of others that he is what he is, or in other words, the society which now condemns him is partly answerable concerning him. They say that there is no fear of any increase of disease under these circumstances; for the loss of liberty, the surveillance, the considerable and compulsory deduction from the prisoner’s earnings, the very sparing use of stimulants (of which they would allow but little to any, and none to those who did not earn them), the enforced celibacy, and above all, the loss of reputation among friends, are in their opinion as ample safeguards to society against a general neglect of health as those now resorted to. A man, therefore, (so they say) should carry his profession or trade into prison with him if possible; if not, he must earn his living by the nearest thing to it that he can; but if he be a gentleman born and bred to no profession, he must pick oakum, or write art criticisms for a newspaper.
此外，只要一个人没有被真正杀死，他就是我们的同胞，尽管这可能是一个非常令人不愉快的同胞。在很大程度上，他之所以成为现在的他，是因为别人的所作所为，或者换句话说，现在谴责他的社会对他负有部分责任。他们说，在这种情况下，不必担心疾病会增加；失去自由、监视、从囚犯的收入中强制扣除大量费用、极少使用兴奋剂（他们只允许任何人使用兴奋剂，对于那些没有获得兴奋剂的人则不允许使用）、强迫独身最重要的是，在他们看来，在朋友中名誉的损失是社会防止普遍忽视健康的充分保障，就像现在所采取的那样。因此，（人们这么说）一个人如果可能的话，应该把他的职业或行业带进监狱。如果没有，他就必须靠尽可能接近的东西来谋生。但如果他是一位天生无业的绅士，他就必须选择奥库姆，或者为报纸撰写艺术评论。

These people say further, that the greater part of the illness which exists in their country is brought about by the insane manner in which it is treated.
这些人进一步说，他们国家存在的大部分疾病都是由疯狂的治疗方式造成的。

They believe that illness is in many cases just as curable as the moral diseases which they see daily cured around them, but that a great reform is impossible till men learn to take a juster view of what physical obliquity proceeds from. Men will hide their illnesses as long as they are scouted on its becoming known that they are ill; it is the scouting, not the physic, which produces the concealment; and if a man felt that the news of his being in ill-health would be received by his neighbours as a deplorable fact, but one as much the result of necessary antecedent causes as though he had broken into a jeweller’s shop and stolen a valuable diamond necklace—as a fact which might just as easily have happened to themselves, only that they had the luck to be better born or reared; and if they also felt that they would not be made more uncomfortable in the prison than the protection of society against infection and the proper treatment of their own disease actually demanded, men would give themselves up to the police as readily on perceiving that they had taken small-pox, as they go now to the straightener when they feel that they are on the point of forging a will, or running away with somebody else’s wife.
他们相信，在许多情况下，疾病就像他们周围每天看到的道德疾病一样可以治愈，但除非人们学会更公正地看待身体倾斜的根源，否则伟大的改革是不可能的。只要人们发现自己有病，人们就会隐藏自己的疾病。产生隐蔽的是侦察，而不是物理；如果一个人认为他健康状况不佳的消息会被邻居视为可悲的事实，但这就像他闯入珠宝店并偷走了一颗珍贵的钻石一样是必要的先因原因的结果项链——这一事实很可能发生在他们自己身上，只是他们有幸出生或成长得更好；如果他们还认为，他们在监狱里不会比保护社会免受感染和适当治疗自己的疾病实际上需要的更不舒服，那么男人在意识到他们已经采取了行动时，也会很容易地向警察投案自首。天花，当他们觉得自己即将立下遗嘱，或者与别人的妻子私奔时，他们就会去矫正。

But the main argument on which they rely is that of economy: for they know that they will sooner gain their end by appealing to men’s pockets, in which they have generally something of their own, than to their heads, which contain for the most part little but borrowed or stolen property; and also, they believe it to be the readiest test and the one which has most to show for itself. If a course of conduct can be shown to cost a country less, and this by no dishonourable saving and with no indirectly increased expenditure in other ways, they hold that it requires a good deal to upset the arguments in favour of its being adopted, and whether rightly or wrongly I cannot pretend to say, they think that the more medicinal and humane treatment of the diseased of which they are the advocates would in the long run be much cheaper to the country: but I did not gather that these reformers were opposed to meeting some of the more violent forms of illness with the cat-of- nine-tails, or with death; for they saw no so effectual way of checking them; they would therefore both flog and hang, but they would do so pitifully.
但他们所依赖的主要论据是经济论据：因为他们知道，通过诉诸人们的口袋，他们通常拥有自己的东西，而不是诉诸他们的头脑，他们会更快地达到目的，而头脑中的大部分内容都包含着自己的东西。除了借来或偷来的财产外，几乎没有什么；而且，他们相信这是最容易进行的测试，也是最能展示其本身的测试。如果一项行为可以证明可以减少一个国家的成本，并且没有不光彩的储蓄，也没有以其他方式间接增加支出，那么他们认为需要做很多事情来推翻支持其被采用的论点，并且无论正确还是错误，我都不能假装说，他们认为，从长远来看，他们所倡导的对病人进行更加医学和人道的治疗对国家来说会便宜得多：但我没有想到这些改革者会反对用九尾猫或死亡来应对一些更严重的疾病；因为他们没有看到如此有效的方法来检查他们。因此，他们要么被鞭打，要么被绞死，但他们这样做的方式很可怜。

I have perhaps dwelt too long upon opinions which can have no possible bearing upon our own, but I have not said the tenth part of what these would-be reformers urged upon me. I feel, however, that I have sufficiently trespassed upon the attention of the reader.
也许我在那些可能与我们自己的观点没有任何关系的观点上讨论得太久了，但我还没有说出这些潜在的改革者敦促我的内容的第十部分。然而，我觉得我已经充分地侵犯了读者的注意力。

CHAPTER XIII: THE VIEWS OF THE EREWHONIANS CONCERNING DEATH
第十三章：埃雷霍尼安派关于死亡的观点

The Erewhonians regard death with less abhorrence than disease. If it is an offence at all, it is one beyond the reach of the law, which is therefore silent on the subject; but they insist that the greater number of those who are commonly said to die, have never yet been born—not, at least, into that unseen world which is alone worthy of consideration. As regards this unseen world I understand them to say that some miscarry in respect to it before they have even reached the seen, and some after, while few are ever truly born into it at all—the greater part of all the men and women over the whole country miscarrying before they reach it. And they say that this does not matter so much as we think it does.
埃雷洪人对死亡的憎恶程度远低于对疾病的憎恶程度。如果这确实构成犯罪，那么它就超出了法律的管辖范围，因此法律对这个问题保持沉默；但他们坚持认为，大多数通常所说的死亡者实际上还没有出生——至少没有出生到那个单独值得考虑的看不见的世界。至于这个看不见的世界，我理解他们的意思是，有些人甚至在到达看得见的世界之前就流产了，有些人则在到达看得见的世界之前就流产了，而很少有人真正出生在这个世界上——大多数男人和女人都出生在这个世界上。整个国家在到达之前就流产了。他们说这并不像我们想象的那么重要。

As for what we call death, they argue that too much has been made of it. The mere knowledge that we shall one day die does not make us very unhappy; no one thinks that he or she will escape, so that none are disappointed. We do not care greatly even though we know that we have not long to live; the only thing that would seriously affect us would be the knowing—or rather thinking that we know— the precise moment at which the blow will fall. Happily no one can ever certainly know this, though many try to make themselves miserable by endeavouring to find it out. It seems as though there were some power somewhere which mercifully stays us from putting that sting into the tail of death, which we would put there if we could, and which ensures that though death must always be a bugbear, it shall never under any conceivable circumstances be more than a bugbear.
至于我们所谓的死亡，他们认为人们对它的理解太多了。仅仅知道我们有一天会死去并不会让我们感到非常不快乐；相反，我们会感到高兴。没有人认为他或她会逃脱，因此没有人感到失望。尽管我们知道自己的寿命不长，但我们并不在意；唯一会严重影响我们的事情就是知道——或者更确切地说，认为我们知道——打击将会发生的确切时刻。值得庆幸的是，没有人能够确切地知道这一点，尽管许多人试图通过努力找出这一点而让自己感到痛苦。似乎有某种力量仁慈地阻止我们将那刺刺入死亡的尾巴，如果可以的话，我们会把它放在那里，并确保尽管死亡总是令人烦恼，但它永远不会在任何可以想象的情况下发生。情况不仅仅是令人烦恼的。

For even though a man is condemned to die in a week’s time and is shut up in a prison from which it is certain that he cannot escape, he will always hope that a reprieve may come before the week is over. Besides, the prison may catch fire, and he may be suffocated not with a rope, but with common ordinary smoke; or he may be struck dead by lightning while exercising in the prison yards. When the morning is come on which the poor wretch is to be hanged, he may choke at his breakfast, or die from failure of the heart’s action before the drop has fallen; and even though it has fallen, he cannot be quite certain that he is going to die, for he cannot know this till his death has actually taken place, and it will be too late then for him to discover that he was going to die at the appointed hour after all. The Erewhonians, therefore, hold that death, like life, is an affair of being more frightened than hurt.
因为，即使一个人被判处一周后死亡，并被关在监狱里，他肯定无法逃脱，但他总是希望在一周结束之前能得到缓刑。此外，监狱可能着火，他可能不是被绳子，而是被普通的烟雾窒息；或者他可能在监狱院子里锻炼时被闪电击中身亡。当这个可怜的可怜人被绞死的早晨来临的时候，他可能会被早餐噎住，或者在水滴落下之前因心脏衰竭而死亡。即使它已经掉下来，他也不能完全确定自己会死，因为直到他的死亡真正发生之前他无法知道这一点，而那时他发现自己将要死的时候就为时已晚了。毕竟是约定的时间。因此，埃雷洪主义者认为，死亡就像生命一样，是一种更多的恐惧而不是伤害。

They burn their dead, and the ashes are presently scattered over any piece of ground which the deceased may himself have chosen. No one is permitted to refuse this hospitality to the dead: people, therefore, generally choose some garden or orchard which they may have known and been fond of when they were young. The superstitious hold that those whose ashes are scattered over any land become its jealous guardians from that time forward; and the living like to think that they shall become identified with this or that locality where they have once been happy.
他们焚烧死者，然后将骨灰撒在死者自己选择的任何一块地上。任何人都不允许拒绝对死者的这种款待：因此，人们通常会选择一些他们年轻时可能知道并喜欢的花园或果园。迷信认为，那些骨灰撒在任何土地上的人，从那时起就成为该土地的嫉妒守护者。活着的人喜欢认为他们会认同他们曾经幸福过的这个或那个地方。

They do not put up monuments, nor write epitaphs, for their dead, though in former ages their practice was much as ours, but they have a custom which comes to much the same thing, for the instinct of preserving the name alive after the death of the body seems to be common to all mankind. They have statues of themselves made while they are still alive (those, that is, who can afford it), and write inscriptions under them, which are often quite as untruthful as are our own epitaphs—only in another way. For they do not hesitate to describe themselves as victims to ill temper, jealousy, covetousness, and the like, but almost always lay claim to personal beauty, whether they have it or not, and, often, to the possession of a large sum in the funded debt of the country. If a person is ugly he does not sit as a model for his own statue, although it bears his name. He gets the handsomest of his friends to sit for him, and one of the ways of paying a compliment to another is to ask him to sit for such a statue. Women generally sit for their own statues, from a natural disinclination to admit the superior beauty of a friend, but they expect to be idealised. I understood that the multitude of these statues was beginning to be felt as an encumbrance in almost every family, and that the custom would probably before long fall into desuetude.
他们不为死者立碑，也不写墓志铭，尽管在过去的时代他们的做法与我们的做法很相似，但他们有一个几乎相同的习俗，因为在死后保留名字的本能身体的特征似乎是全人类共有的。他们在活着的时候为自己制作雕像（即那些买得起的人），并在雕像下面写下铭文，这些铭文往往和我们自己的墓志铭一样不真实——只是以另一种方式。因为他们毫不犹豫地将自己描述为脾气暴躁、嫉妒、贪婪等的受害者，但几乎总是声称自己拥有个人美貌，无论他们是否拥有美貌，而且常常声称拥有一大笔财产。该国的融资债务。如果一个人长得很丑，他就不会坐在自己的雕像上作为模型，尽管雕像上有他的名字。他让他的朋友中最帅的一个为他坐，向另一个人致意的方式之一就是请他为这样的雕像坐。女性通常会为自己的雕像而坐，因为她们天生不愿意承认朋友的美貌，但她们希望自己被理想化。我明白，几乎每个家庭都开始觉得大量的雕像是一种负担，而且这种习俗可能很快就会被废除。

Indeed, this has already come about to the satisfaction of every one, as regards the statues of public men—not more than three of which can be found in the whole capital. I expressed my surprise at this, and was told that some five hundred years before my visit, the city had been so overrun with these pests, that there was no getting about, and people were worried beyond endurance by having their attention called at every touch and turn to something, which, when they had attended to it, they found not to concern them. Most of these statues were mere attempts to do for some man or woman what an animal-stuffer does more successfully for a dog, or bird, or pike. They were generally foisted on the public by some coterie that was trying to exalt itself in exalting some one else, and not unfrequently they had no other inception than desire on the part of some member of the coterie to find a job for a young sculptor to whom his daughter was engaged. Statues so begotten could never be anything but deformities, and this is the way in which they are sure to be begotten, as soon as the art of making them at all has become widely practised.
事实上，这已经让所有人都满意了，就公共人物的雕像而言——整个首都的雕像不超过三座。我对此表示惊讶，并被告知，在我访问之前大约五百年，这座城市已经被这些害虫淹没了，以至于无法走动，人们担心得无法忍受，因为每次接触都会引起他们的注意然后转向某件事，当他们注意到这件事时，他们发现与他们无关。大多数这些雕像只是尝试为某些男人或女人做一些动物填充者为狗、鸟或梭子鱼所做的更成功的事情。它们通常是由某些小圈子强加给公众的，这些小圈子试图通过抬高别人来抬高自己，而这种情况并不少见，除了小圈子中的某些成员希望为年轻的雕塑家找到一份工作之外，他们没有其他的出发点。他的女儿已经订婚了。这样产生的雕像除了畸形之外永远不会是什么，而一旦制作它们的艺术得到广泛应用，它们就一定会以这种方式产生。

I know not why, but all the noblest arts hold in perfection but for a very little moment. They soon reach a height from which they begin to decline, and when they have begun to decline it is a pity that they cannot be knocked on the head; for an art is like a living organism—better dead than dying. There is no way of making an aged art young again; it must be born anew and grow up from infancy as a new thing, working out its own salvation from effort to effort in all fear and trembling.
我不知道为什么，但所有最高尚的艺术都保持着完美，但只维持了很短的时间。他们很快就会达到一个高度，然后开始下降，当他们开始下降时，可惜的是，不能敲他们的头；因为艺术就像一个活的有机体——死了总比死了好。没有办法让古老的艺术重新焕发青春；它必须重生，从婴儿时期就成长为一个新事物，在恐惧和颤抖中不断努力，努力实现自己的救赎。

The Erewhonians five hundred years ago understood nothing of all this—I doubt whether they even do so now. They wanted to get the nearest thing they could to a stuffed man whose stuffing should not grow mouldy. They should have had some such an establishment as our Madame Tussaud’s, where the figures wear real clothes, and are painted up to nature. Such an institution might have been made self-supporting, for people might have been made to pay before going in. As it was, they had let their poor cold grimy colourless heroes and heroines loaf about in squares and in corners of streets in all weathers, without any attempt at artistic sanitation—for there was no provision for burying their dead works of art out of their sight—no drainage, so to speak, whereby statues that had been sufficiently assimilated, so as to form part of the residuary impression of the country, might be carried away out of the system. Hence they put them up with a light heart on the cackling of their coteries, and they and their children had to live, often enough, with some wordy windbag whose cowardice had cost the country untold loss in blood and money.
五百年前的埃瑞洪人对这一切一无所知——我怀疑他们现在是否还明白。他们想找到最接近毛绒玩具的东西，而且里面的填充物不会发霉。他们应该有像我们的杜莎夫人蜡像馆这样的场所，里面的人物穿着真衣服，而且画得很自然。这样的机构本来可以是自给自足的，因为人们在进去之前可能会被要求付钱。 事实上，他们让可怜的、寒冷的、肮脏的、无色的英雄和女英雄在任何天气条件下在广场和街道的角落里闲逛。 ，没有任何艺术卫生的尝试——因为没有规定将死去的艺术品掩埋在他们的视线之外——可以说，没有排水，已经被充分同化的雕像，从而形成了残留印象的一部分国家，可能会被排除在体制之外。因此，他们对他们的小圈子的咯咯笑声感到轻松，而他们和他们的孩子常常不得不与一些多嘴的空谈者一起生活，他们的懦弱使国家付出了无数的鲜血和金钱损失。

At last the evil reached such a pitch that the people rose, and with indiscriminate fury destroyed good and bad alike. Most of what was destroyed was bad, but some few works were good, and the sculptors of to-day wring their hands over some of the fragments that have been preserved in museums up and down the country. For a couple of hundred years or so, not a statue was made from one end of the kingdom to the other, but the instinct for having stuffed men and women was so strong, that people at length again began to try to make them. Not knowing how to make them, and having no academics to mislead them, the earliest sculptors of this period thought things out for themselves, and again produced works that were full of interest, so that in three or four generations they reached a perfection hardly if at all inferior to that of several hundred years earlier.
最后，邪恶达到了如此程度，人们起来了，用不分青红皂白的愤怒摧毁了善人和恶人。大多数被毁坏的东西都是坏的，但也有少数作品是好的，今天的雕塑家们对一些保存在全国各地博物馆中的碎片绞尽脑汁。在大约几百年的时间里，从王国的一端到另一端，没有建造一座雕像，但填充男人和女人的本能如此强烈，以至于人们终于再次开始尝试制作它们。这一时期最早的雕塑家们不知道如何制作，又没有学术界的误导，他们自己思考，又创作出了充满趣味的作品，以至于三四代人几乎都达到了完美。与数百年前相比，根本不逊色。

On this the same evils recurred. Sculptors obtained high prices— the art became a trade—schools arose which professed to sell the holy spirit of art for money; pupils flocked from far and near to buy it, in the hopes of selling it later on, and were struck purblind as a punishment for the sin of those who sent them. Before long a second iconoclastic fury would infallibly have followed, but for the prescience of a statesman who succeeded in passing an Act to the effect that no statue of any public man or woman should be allowed to remain unbroken for more than fifty years, unless at the end of that time a jury of twenty-four men taken at random from the street pronounced in favour of its being allowed a second fifty years of life. Every fifty years this reconsideration was to be repeated, and unless there was a majority of eighteen in favour of the retention of the statue, it was to be destroyed.
在此过程中，同样的罪恶再次发生。雕塑家获得了高价——艺术成为一种贸易——学校兴起，声称以出售艺术的神圣精神来换取金钱；学生们从四面八方涌来购买它，希望以后能卖掉它，但他们却被打得失明，作为对送他们的人的罪孽的惩罚。不久之后，第二次反传统的愤怒肯定会随之而来，但由于一位政治家的先见之明，他成功地通过了一项法案，该法案的大意是，任何公众人物的雕像不得在五十年以上保持完好无损，除非最后，由从街上随机抽取的二十四人组成的陪审团宣布支持给予其第二个五十年的寿命。每五十年就要重复一次这种重新考虑，除非有十八人的多数赞成保留雕像，否则它将被摧毁。

Perhaps a simpler plan would have been to forbid the erection of a statue to any public man or woman till he or she had been dead at least one hundred years, and even then to insist on reconsideration of the claims of the deceased and the merit of the statue every fifty years—but the working of the Act brought about results that on the whole were satisfactory. For in the first place, many public statues that would have been voted under the old system, were not ordered, when it was known that they would be almost certainly broken up after fifty years, and in the second, public sculptors knowing their work to be so ephemeral, scamped it to an extent that made it offensive even to the most uncultured eye. Hence before long subscribers took to paying the sculptor for the statue of their dead statesmen, on condition that he did not make it. The tribute of respect was thus paid to the deceased, the public sculptors were not mulcted, and the rest of the public suffered no inconvenience.
也许一个更简单的计划是禁止为任何公众人物竖立雕像，直到他或她去世至少一百年，即便如此，仍坚持重新考虑死者的主张和其功绩。每五十年建造一次雕像——但该法案的实施带来的结果总体上是令人满意的。因为首先，许多在旧制度下本应投票的公共雕像没有被订购，因为人们知道它们几乎肯定会在五十年后被拆除；其次，公共雕塑家知道他们的作品将被拆除。如此短暂，以至于即使在最没有文化的人看来也令人反感。因此，不久之后，订阅者就开始向雕塑家支付费用，购买他们已故政治家的雕像，条件是他不能成功。因此，人们向死者表示了敬意，公共雕塑家没有受到影响，其他公众也没有受到任何不便。

I was told, however, that an abuse of this custom is growing up, inasmuch as the competition for the commission not to make a statue is so keen, that sculptors have been known to return a considerable part of the purchase money to the subscribers, by an arrangement made with them beforehand. Such transactions, however, are always clandestine. A small inscription is let into the pavement, where the public statue would have stood, which informs the reader that such a statue has been ordered for the person, whoever he or she may be, but that as yet the sculptor has not been able to complete it. There has been no Act to repress statues that are intended for private consumption, but as I have said, the custom is falling into desuetude.
然而，有人告诉我，滥用这种习俗的现象正在增多，因为不制作雕像的委托竞争非常激烈，众所周知，雕塑家会将相当一部分购买资金返还给订阅者，通过事先与他们做出的安排。然而，此类交易始终是秘密的。人行道上刻有一个小铭文，公共雕像本来应该矗立在那里，它告诉读者，已经为这个人订购了这样一个雕像，无论他或她是谁，但到目前为止，雕塑家还无法完成它。目前还没有任何法案禁止私人消费的雕像，但正如我所说，这种习俗正在逐渐废弃。

Returning to Erewhonian customs in connection with death, there is one which I can hardly pass over. When any one dies, the friends of the family write no letters of condolence, neither do they attend the scattering, nor wear mourning, but they send little boxes filled with artificial tears, and with the name of the sender painted neatly upon the outside of the lid. The tears vary in number from two to fifteen or sixteen, according to degree of intimacy or relationship; and people sometimes find it a nice point of etiquette to know the exact number which they ought to send. Strange as it may appear, this attention is highly valued, and its omission by those from whom it might be expected is keenly felt. These tears were formerly stuck with adhesive plaster to the cheeks of the bereaved, and were worn in public for a few months after the death of a relative; they were then banished to the hat or bonnet, and are now no longer worn.
回到埃鲁洪尼亚与死亡有关的习俗，有一个我很难忽视。当有人去世时，亲朋好友不写吊唁信，也不参加追悼会，也不穿丧服，只是寄来装满人工泪液的小盒子，盒子外面工整地写着寄件人的名字。盖子。根据亲密程度或关系的不同，眼泪的数量从两滴到十五滴或十六滴不等；人们有时发现知道他们应该发送的确切号码是一种很好的礼仪。尽管看起来很奇怪，但这种关注受到高度重视，而那些可能期待这种关注的人却敏锐地感受到了它的忽视。这些眼泪以前是用橡皮膏贴在死者家属的脸颊上的，在亲人去世后在公共场合佩戴了几个月；然后它们被放逐到帽子或软帽上，现在不再佩戴。

The birth of a child is looked upon as a painful subject on which it is kinder not to touch: the illness of the mother is carefully concealed until the necessity for signing the birth-formula (of which hereafter) renders further secrecy impossible, and for some months before the event the family live in retirement, seeing very little company. When the offence is over and done with, it is condoned by the common want of logic; for this merciful provision of nature, this buffer against collisions, this friction which upsets our calculations but without which existence would be intolerable, this crowning glory of human invention whereby we can be blind and see at one and the same moment, this blessed inconsistency, exists here as elsewhere; and though the strictest writers on morality have maintained that it is wicked for a woman to have children at all, inasmuch as it is wrong to be out of health that good may come, yet the necessity of the case has caused a general feeling in favour of passing over such events in silence, and of assuming their non-existence except in such flagrant cases as force themselves on the public notice. Against these the condemnation of society is inexorable, and if it is believed that the illness has been dangerous and protracted, it is almost impossible for a woman to recover her former position in society.
孩子的出生被视为一个痛苦的话题，最好不要触及：母亲的病被小心地隐瞒，直到需要签署出生公式（此后）使进一步的保密变得不可能。活动举行前几个月，一家人过着退休生活，很少有人陪伴。当冒犯结束后，由于普遍缺乏逻辑，它被宽恕了。因为大自然的这种仁慈的规定，这种对碰撞的缓冲，这种扰乱我们的计算但没有它的存在将是无法忍受的摩擦，这种人类发明的至高无上的荣耀，使我们可以盲目地同时看到这种神圣的不一致，这里和其他地方一样存在；尽管最严格的道德作家们都坚持认为，女人生孩子根本就是邪恶的，因为健康状况不佳是错误的，但这种情况的必要性却引起了普遍的支持。对此类事件保持沉默，并假设这些事件不存在，除非是那些迫使公众注意的公然案件。社会对这些的谴责是无情的，如果人们认为这种疾病是危险的和长期的，那么妇女几乎不可能恢复以前的社会地位。

The above conventions struck me as arbitrary and cruel, but they put a stop to many fancied ailments; for the situation, so far from being considered interesting, is looked upon as savouring more or less distinctly of a very reprehensible condition of things, and the ladies take care to conceal it as long as they can even from their own husbands, in anticipation of a severe scolding as soon as the misdemeanour is discovered. Also the baby is kept out of sight, except on the day of signing the birth-formula, until it can walk and talk. Should the child unhappily die, a coroner’s inquest is inevitable, but in order to avoid disgracing a family which may have been hitherto respected, it is almost invariably found that the child was over seventy-five years old, and died from the decay of nature.
上述惯例给我的印象是武断和残酷，但它们阻止了许多想象中的疾病。因为这种情况远非被认为是有趣的，而是被认为或多或少明显是一种非常应受谴责的情况，而女士们则小心翼翼地向自己的丈夫隐瞒这一情况，甚至不让自己的丈夫知道，因为她们预计会发生这样的事情。一旦发现违法行为，立即严厉批评。此外，除了在签署配方奶的那天外，婴儿也不会被人看到，直到他能走路和说话。如果孩子不幸死亡，验尸官的调查是不可避免的，但为了避免让一个迄今为止可能受到尊重的家庭蒙羞，几乎总是发现孩子已经超过七十五岁，死于自然腐烂。 。

CHAPTER XIV: MAHAINA
第十四章：玛海娜

I continued my sojourn with the Nosnibors. In a few days Mr. Nosnibor had recovered from his flogging, and was looking forward with glee to the fact that the next would be the last. I did not think that there seemed any occasion even for this; but he said it was better to be on the safe side, and he would make up the dozen. He now went to his business as usual; and I understood that he was never more prosperous, in spite of his heavy fine. He was unable to give me much of his time during the day; for he was one of those valuable men who are paid, not by the year, month, week, or day, but by the minute. His wife and daughters, however, made much of me, and introduced me to their friends, who came in shoals to call upon me.
我继续在诺斯尼伯家族逗留。几天后，诺斯尼博尔先生从鞭打中恢复过来，并高兴地期待着下一次将是最后一次。我认为似乎没有任何必要这样做；但他说保险起见比较好，他会补上十几个。现在他像往常一样去干自己的事了。我明白，尽管他受到了巨额罚款，但他从未像现在这样富裕过。他白天无法给我太多时间。因为他是那些有价值的人之一，他们的报酬不是按年、月、周或日计算，而是按分钟计算。然而，他的妻子和女儿们很看重我，把我介绍给她们的朋友，他们纷纷前来拜访我。

One of these persons was a lady called Mahaina. Zulora (the elder of my host’s daughters) ran up to her and embraced her as soon as she entered the room, at the same time inquiring tenderly after her ‘poor dipsomania.’ Mahaina answered that it was just as bad as ever; she was a perfect martyr to it, and her excellent health was the only thing which consoled her under her affliction.
其中一位名叫玛海娜的女士。她一进房间，祖洛拉（我主人的女儿中的长辈）就跑到她面前拥抱了她，同时温柔地询问她“可怜的酗酒狂”的情况。她是一个完美的殉道者，而她良好的健康状况是在她的痛苦中唯一安慰她的东西。

Then the other ladies joined in with condolences and the never- failing suggestions which they had ready for every mental malady. They recommended their own straightener and disparaged Mahaina’s. Mrs. Nosnibor had a favourite nostrum, but I could catch little of its nature. I heard the words ‘full confidence that the desire to drink will cease when the formula has been repeated * * * this confidence is EVERYTHING * * * far from undervaluing a thorough determination never to touch spirits again * * * fail too often * * * formula a CERTAIN CURE (with great emphasis) * * * prescribed form * * * full conviction.’ The conversation then became more audible, and was carried on at considerable length. I should perplex myself and the reader by endeavouring to follow the ingenious perversity of all they said; enough, that in the course of time the visit came to an end, and Mahaina took her leave receiving affectionate embraces from all the ladies. I had remained in the background after the first ceremony of introduction, for I did not like the looks of Mahaina, and the conversation displeased me. When she left the room I had some consolation in the remarks called forth by her departure.
然后其他女士也加入了哀悼，并提出了她们为每一种精神疾病准备的永不失败的建议。他们推荐了自己的直发器，并贬低了 Mahaina 的直发器。诺斯尼伯夫人有一个最喜欢的秘方，但我对它的本质知之甚少。我听到这样一句话：“完全有信心，重复这个公式后，喝酒的欲望就会停止 * * * 这种信心就是一切 * * * 远非低估了不再接触烈酒的彻底决心 * * * 经常失败 * * *公式“一定治愈”（特别强调）* * * 规定形式 * * * 完全确信。然后谈话变得更加清晰，并且持续了相当长的时间。我试图追随他们所说的一切巧妙而反常的观点，这会让我自己和读者感到困惑。就这样，随着时间的推移，访问结束了，马海娜在所有女士们深情的拥抱下离开了。在第一次介绍仪式之后，我一直处于幕后，因为我不喜欢马海娜的长相，而且谈话也让我不高兴。当她离开房间时，我从她的离开引起的言论中得到了一些安慰。

At first they fell to praising her very demurely. She was all this that and the other, till I disliked her more and more at every word, and inquired how it was that the straighteners had not been able to cure her as they had cured Mr. Nosnibor.
起初，他们非常拘谨地称赞她。她就是这样又那样，直到我每说一句话都越来越不喜欢她，并询问直发器为什么不能像治愈诺斯尼伯先生那样治愈她。

There was a shade of significance on Mrs. Nosnibor’s face as I said this, which seemed to imply that she did not consider Mahaina’s case to be quite one for a straightener. It flashed across me that perhaps the poor woman did not drink at all. I knew that I ought not to have inquired, but I could not help it, and asked point blank whether she did or not.
当我说这句话时，诺斯尼博尔夫人的脸上流露出一丝严肃的神色，这似乎暗示着她并不认为马海娜的情况适合直发器。我突然想到，也许这个可怜的女人根本就没有喝酒。我知道我不应该问，但我忍不住，直截了当地问她到底问了没有。

‘We can none of us judge of the condition of other people,’ said Mrs. Nosnibor in a gravely charitable tone and with a look towards Zulora.
“我们谁也无法判断别人的处境，”诺斯尼博尔夫人用严肃而仁慈的语气说道，目光看向祖洛拉。

‘Oh, mamma,’ answered Zulora, pretending to be half angry but rejoiced at being able to say out what she was already longing to insinuate; ‘I don’t believe a word of it. It’s all indigestion. I remember staying in the house with her for a whole month last summer, and I am sure she never once touched a drop of wine or spirits. The fact is, Mahaina is a very weakly girl, and she pretends to get tipsy in order to win a forbearance from her friends to which she is not entitled. She is not strong enough for her calisthenic exercises, and she knows she would be made to do them unless her inability was referred to moral causes.’
“哦，妈妈，”祖洛拉回答道，假装半生气，但很高兴能够说出她已经渴望暗示的话； ‘我一个字也不信。都是消化不良。我记得去年夏天和她一起在家里待了整整一个月，我确信她从来没有碰过一滴酒或烈酒。事实上，玛海娜是一个非常虚弱的女孩，她假装喝醉了，以博得朋友们的宽容，而她没有资格这样做。她的体力不足以进行健美操练习，她知道除非她的无能是出于道德原因，否则她将被迫进行这些练习。

Here the younger sister, who was ever sweet and kind, remarked that she thought Mahaina did tipple occasionally. ‘I also think,’ she added, ‘that she sometimes takes poppy juice.’
妹妹一向和蔼可亲，她说她认为马海娜偶尔会喝醉。 “我还认为，”她补充道，“她有时会喝罂粟汁。”

‘Well, then, perhaps she does drink sometimes,’ said Zulora; ‘but she would make us all think that she does it much oftener in order to hide her weakness.’
“那么，也许她有时确实会喝酒，”祖洛拉说。 “但她会让我们所有人认为她更频繁地这样做是为了隐藏自己的弱点。”

And so they went on for half an hour and more, bandying about the question as to how far their late visitor’s intemperance was real or no. Every now and then they would join in some charitable commonplace, and would pretend to be all of one mind that Mahaina was a person whose bodily health would be excellent if it were not for her unfortunate inability to refrain from excessive drinking; but as soon as this appeared to be fairly settled they began to be uncomfortable until they had undone their work and left some serious imputation upon her constitution. At last, seeing that the debate had assumed the character of a cyclone or circular storm, going round and round and round and round till one could never say where it began nor where it ended, I made some apology for an abrupt departure and retired to my own room.
就这样，他们持续了半个多小时，不断地讨论着这个问题：这位已故访客的放纵行为到底是真是假。他们时不时地参加一些慈善活动，假装全心全意地认为，如果不是玛海娜不幸无法克制过度饮酒，她的身体健康状况将会非常好；但一旦事情似乎得到了相当的解决，他们就开始感到不舒服，直到他们取消了他们的工作，并对她的体质留下了一些严重的指责。最后，看到这场争论已经呈现出旋风或循环风暴的特征，一圈又一圈，一圈又一圈，直到人们无法说出它从哪里开始，也无法说出它在哪里结束，我为突然离开表示歉意，然后退休了。我自己的房间。

Here at least I was alone, but I was very unhappy. I had fallen upon a set of people who, in spite of their high civilisation and many excellences, had been so warped by the mistaken views presented to them during childhood from generation to generation, that it was impossible to see how they could ever clear themselves. Was there nothing which I could say to make them feel that the constitution of a person’s body was a thing over which he or she had had at any rate no initial control whatever, while the mind was a perfectly different thing, and capable of being created anew and directed according to the pleasure of its possessor? Could I never bring them to see that while habits of mind and character were entirely independent of initial mental force and early education, the body was so much a creature of parentage and circumstances, that no punishment for ill-health should be ever tolerated save as a protection from contagion, and that even where punishment was inevitable it should be attended with compassion? Surely, if the unfortunate Mahaina were to feel that she could avow her bodily weakness without fear of being despised for her infirmities, and if there were medical men to whom she could fairly state her case, she would not hesitate about doing so through the fear of taking nasty medicine. It was possible that her malady was incurable (for I had heard enough to convince me that her dipsomania was only a pretence and that she was temperate in all her habits); in that case she might perhaps be justly subject to annoyances or even to restraint; but who could say whether she was curable or not, until she was able to make a clean breast of her symptoms instead of concealing them? In their eagerness to stamp out disease, these people overshot their mark; for people had become so clever at dissembling—they painted their faces with such consummate skill— they repaired the decay of time and the effects of mischance with such profound dissimulation—that it was really impossible to say whether any one was well or ill till after an intimate acquaintance of months or years. Even then the shrewdest were constantly mistaken in their judgements, and marriages were often contracted with most deplorable results, owing to the art with which infirmity had been concealed.
这里至少只有我一个人，但我很不高兴。我遇到了一群人，尽管他们有很高的文明程度和许多优秀的品质，但他们却被童年时期一代又一代的错误观点所扭曲，以致于他们根本无法看清自己的清白。 。难道我没有什么可以说的，让他们觉得一个人的身体的构成是一个他或她无论如何都无法最初控制的东西，而心灵是一个完全不同的东西，并且能够被创造重新并根据其拥有者的喜好进行引导？难道我永远不能让他们明白，虽然思想和性格的习惯完全独立于最初的精神力量和早期教育，但身体在很大程度上是出身和环境的产物，任何对健康不良的惩罚都是不应该容忍的，除非防止传染，即使惩罚不可避免，也应该充满同情心？当然，如果不幸的玛海娜觉得她可以承认自己身体上的弱点，而不必担心因她的虚弱而受到鄙视，并且如果有医生可以公平地向她陈述自己的情况，那么她会毫不犹豫地这样做，因为她害怕服用难吃的药。她的病可能无法治愈（因为我听到的足够多的信息使我确信她的酗酒只是一种假象，而且她在所有习惯上都很节制）；在这种情况下，她也许会理所应当地受到烦恼，甚至受到限制。但在她能够坦白而不是隐瞒自己的症状之前，谁能说她是否可以治愈呢？ 由于渴望消灭疾病，这些人超出了他们的目标。因为人们已经变得如此善于掩饰——他们用如此高超的技巧来描绘自己的脸——他们用如此深刻的掩饰来修复时间的腐烂和不幸的影响——以至于直到后来才真正不可能说一个人是好是坏。数月或数年的亲密相识。即使在那时，最精明的人也经常做出错误的判断，而且由于掩盖虚弱的艺术，婚姻往往会带来最悲惨的结果。

It appeared to me that the first step towards the cure of disease should be the announcement of the fact to a person’s near relations and friends. If any one had a headache, he ought to be permitted within reasonable limits to say so at once, and to retire to his own bedroom and take a pill, without every one’s looking grave and tears being shed and all the rest of it. As it was, even upon hearing it whispered that somebody else was subject to headaches, a whole company must look as though they had never had a headache in their lives. It is true they were not very prevalent, for the people were the healthiest and most comely imaginable, owing to the severity with which ill health was treated; still, even the best were liable to be out of sorts sometimes, and there were few families that had not a medicine-chest in a cupboard somewhere.
在我看来，治愈疾病的第一步应该是向一个人的近亲和朋友宣布这一事实。如果有人头痛，应该允许他在合理的范围内立即说出来，然后回到自己的卧室吃药，而不是每个人都显得严肃，流泪等等。事实上，即使听到有人低声说别人患有头痛，整个公司的人也一定看起来好像他们一生中从未患过头痛一样。确实，这种病并不普遍，因为人们对疾病的治疗非常严格，是可以想象到的最健康、最漂亮的人。尽管如此，即使是最好的人有时也会感到不舒服，而且几乎每个家庭的橱柜里都没有放着一个药箱。

CHAPTER XV: THE MUSICAL BANKS
第十五章：音乐库

On my return to the drawing-room, I found that the Mahaina current had expended itself. The ladies were just putting away their work and preparing to go out. I asked them where they were going. They answered with a certain air of reserve that they were going to the bank to get some money.
当我回到客厅时，我发现马海纳电流已经耗尽了。女士们刚刚放下手中的工作，准备出去。我问他们要去哪里。他们带着某种矜持的态度回答说，他们要去银行取点钱。

Now I had already collected that the mercantile affairs of the Erewhonians were conducted on a totally different system from our own; I had, however, gathered little hitherto, except that they had two distinct commercial systems, of which the one appealed more strongly to the imagination than anything to which we are accustomed in Europe, inasmuch as the banks that were conducted upon this system were decorated in the most profuse fashion, and all mercantile transactions were accompanied with music, so that they were called Musical Banks, though the music was hideous to a European ear.
现在我已经了解到，埃雷洪尼亚人的商业事务是按照与我们完全不同的制度进行的。然而，到目前为止，我所知甚少，只知道他们有两种不同的商业系统，其中一种比我们在欧洲习惯的任何系统都更能激发人们的想象力，因为在该系统上进行操作的银行都是装饰性的。以最丰富的方式进行，所有商业交易都伴随着音乐，因此它们被称为音乐银行，尽管音乐对欧洲人来说是可怕的。

As for the system itself I never understood it, neither can I do so now: they have a code in connection with it, which I have not the slightest doubt that they understand, but no foreigner can hope to do so. One rule runs into, and against, another as in a most complicated grammar, or as in Chinese pronunciation, wherein I am told that the slightest change in accentuation or tone of voice alters the meaning of a whole sentence. Whatever is incoherent in my description must be referred to the fact of my never having attained to a full comprehension of the subject.
至于这个系统本身，我从来没有理解过，现在也不能理解：他们有一个与之相关的代码，我毫不怀疑他们理解这个代码，但没有外国人能希望这样做。一条规则与另一条规则相冲突，或者相反，就像在最复杂的语法中，或者在中文发音中，我被告知，重音或语调的最轻微的变化都会改变整个句子的含义。我的描述中任何不连贯的地方都必须涉及到我从未完全理解该主题的事实。

So far, however, as I could collect anything certain, I gathered that they have two distinct currencies, each under the control of its own banks and mercantile codes. One of these (the one with the Musical Banks) was supposed to be THE system, and to give out the currency in which all monetary transactions should be carried on; and as far as I could see, all who wished to be considered respectable, kept a larger or smaller balance at these banks. On the other hand, if there is one thing of which I am more sure than another, it is that the amount so kept had no direct commercial value in the outside world; I am sure that the managers and cashiers of the Musical Banks were not paid in their own currency. Mr. Nosnibor used to go to these banks, or rather to the great mother bank of the city, sometimes but not very often. He was a pillar of one of the other kind of banks, though he appeared to hold some minor office also in the musical ones. The ladies generally went alone; as indeed was the case in most families, except on state occasions.
然而，到目前为止，由于我能收集到任何确定的信息，我推测它们有两种不同的货币，每种货币都受自己的银行和商业代码的控制。其中之一（音乐银行的那个）应该是系统，并发行所有货币交易应使用的货币；据我所知，所有希望被视为受人尊敬的人都在这些银行保留了或多或少的余额。另一方面，如果说有一件事我比另一件事更确定的话，那就是如此保留的数量在外界没有直接的商业价值；我确信音乐银行的经理和出纳员的工资不是用本国货币支付的。诺斯尼博尔先生过去常常去这些银行，或者更确切地说，去这座城市伟大的母银行，有时但不是经常去。他是另一种银行的支柱，尽管他似乎也在音乐银行中担任过一些次要职位。女士们一般都是单独前往。大多数家庭的情况确实如此，除了国家场合。

I had long wanted to know more of this strange system, and had the greatest desire to accompany my hostess and her daughters. I had seen them go out almost every morning since my arrival and had noticed that they carried their purses in their hands, not exactly ostentatiously, yet just so as that those who met them should see whither they were going. I had never, however, yet been asked to go with them myself.
我早就想更多地了解这个奇怪的系统，最渴望的是陪伴女主人和她的女儿们。自从我到达以来，我几乎每天早上都看到他们出去，并注意到他们手里拿着钱包，并不完全是招摇的，但只是为了让见到他们的人知道他们要去哪里。然而，我从来没有被要求亲自和他们一起去。

It is not easy to convey a person’s manner by words, and I can hardly give any idea of the peculiar feeling that came upon me when I saw the ladies on the point of starting for the bank. There was a something of regret, a something as though they would wish to take me with them, but did not like to ask me, and yet as though I were hardly to ask to be taken. I was determined, however, to bring matters to an issue with my hostess about my going with them, and after a little parleying, and many inquiries as to whether I was perfectly sure that I myself wished to go, it was decided that I might do so.
用言语来表达一个人的举止并不容易，当我看到女士们正要出发去银行时，我几乎无法想象那种奇特的感觉。有一种遗憾，好像他们想带我一起去，但又不愿意邀请我，但又好像我很难要求被带去。然而，我决心向我的女主人提出关于我和他们一起去的问题，经过一番谈判，并多次询问我是否完全确定我自己想去，最后决定我可以这样做。

We passed through several streets of more or less considerable houses, and at last turning round a corner we came upon a large piazza, at the end of which was a magnificent building, of a strange but noble architecture and of great antiquity. It did not open directly on to the piazza, there being a screen, through which was an archway, between the piazza and the actual precincts of the bank. On passing under the archway we entered upon a green sward, round which there ran an arcade or cloister, while in front of us uprose the majestic towers of the bank and its venerable front, which was divided into three deep recesses and adorned with all sorts of marbles and many sculptures. On either side there were beautiful old trees wherein the birds were busy by the hundred, and a number of quaint but substantial houses of singularly comfortable appearance; they were situated in the midst of orchards and gardens, and gave me an impression of great peace and plenty.
我们穿过几条街道，两边都是或多或少相当大的房子，最后拐过一个街角，我们来到了一个大广场，广场的尽头是一座宏伟的建筑，建筑风格奇怪但高贵，而且非常古老。它并没有直接通向广场，在广场和银行的实际区域之间有一个屏风，通过屏风是一个拱门。穿过拱门下方，我们进入了一片绿色的草地，周围有一个拱廊或回廊，而在我们面前，矗立着银行的雄伟塔楼及其庄严的正面，正面分为三个深凹处，装饰着各种各样的东西。大理石和许多雕塑。两边都是美丽的古树，成百上千的鸟儿在忙碌，还有许多古色古香但坚固的房屋，外观异常舒适。它们坐落在果园和花园中间，给我一种非常和平和富足的印象。

Indeed it had been no error to say that this building was one that appealed to the imagination; it did more—it carried both imagination and judgement by storm. It was an epic in stone and marble, and so powerful was the effect it produced on me, that as I beheld it I was charmed and melted. I felt more conscious of the existence of a remote past. One knows of this always, but the knowledge is never so living as in the actual presence of some witness to the life of bygone ages. I felt how short a space of human life was the period of our own existence. I was more impressed with my own littleness, and much more inclinable to believe that the people whose sense of the fitness of things was equal to the upraising of so serene a handiwork, were hardly likely to be wrong in the conclusions they might come to upon any subject. My feeling certainly was that the currency of this bank must be the right one.
事实上，说这座建筑是一座充满想象力的建筑并没有错。它做得更多——它承载着强烈的想象力和判断力。这是一部石头和大理石的史诗，它对我产生的影响是如此强大，以至于当我看到它时，我被迷住了，融化了。我更加意识到遥远过去的存在。人们总是知道这一点，但这种知识从来没有像过去时代生活的某些见证人的实际存在那样生动。我感到人类的生命空间对于我们自己存在的时期来说是多么短暂。我对自己的渺小印象更深刻，更倾向于相信，那些对事物的适宜性的感觉等同于提升如此宁静的工艺品的人，他们得出的结论几乎不可能是错误的。任何主题。我的感觉当然是这家银行的货币一定是正确的。

We crossed the sward and entered the building. If the outside had been impressive the inside was even more so. It was very lofty and divided into several parts by walls which rested upon massive pillars; the windows were filled with stained glass descriptive of the principal commercial incidents of the bank for many ages. In a remote part of the building there were men and boys singing; this was the only disturbing feature, for as the gamut was still unknown, there was no music in the country which could be agreeable to a European ear. The singers seemed to have derived their inspirations from the songs of birds and the wailing of the wind, which last they tried to imitate in melancholy cadences that at times degenerated into a howl. To my thinking the noise was hideous, but it produced a great effect upon my companions, who professed themselves much moved. As soon as the singing was over, the ladies requested me to stay where I was while they went inside the place from which it had seemed to come.
我们穿过草地，进入大楼。如果说外部令人印象深刻，那么内部更是如此。它非常高大，被由巨大柱子支撑的墙壁分成几个部分。窗户上贴满了彩色玻璃，描述了多年来银行的主要商业事件。在大楼的一个偏僻的地方，男人和男孩们在唱歌。这是唯一令人不安的特征，因为由于音域仍然未知，该国没有适合欧洲人耳朵的音乐。歌手们的灵感似乎来自鸟儿的歌声和风的哀号，最后他们试图以忧郁的节奏模仿，有时甚至退化为嚎叫。在我看来，这种噪音是可怕的，但它对我的同伴产生了很大的影响，他们声称自己很感动。歌声一结束，女士们就要求我留在原地，而她们则走进了歌声似乎来自的地方。

During their absence certain reflections forced themselves upon me.
他们不在的时候，我突然产生了一些思考。

In the first place, it struck me as strange that the building should be so nearly empty; I was almost alone, and the few besides myself had been led by curiosity, and had no intention of doing business with the bank. But there might be more inside. I stole up to the curtain, and ventured to draw the extreme edge of it on one side. No, there was hardly any one there. I saw a large number of cashiers, all at their desks ready to pay cheques, and one or two who seemed to be the managing partners. I also saw my hostess and her daughters and two or three other ladies; also three or four old women and the boys from one of the neighbouring Colleges of Unreason; but there was no one else. This did not look as though the bank was doing a very large business; and yet I had always been told that every one in the city dealt with this establishment.
首先，这栋建筑几乎空无一人，这让我感到很奇怪。几乎只有我一个人，除了我之外的几个人都被好奇心所引导，无意与银行做生意。但里面可能还有更多。我偷偷走到窗帘前，大胆地把窗帘的边缘拉到一侧。不，那里几乎没有人。我看到很多收银员，都在办公桌前准备支付支票，还有一两个似乎是管理合伙人。我还看到了我的女主人和她的女儿们以及另外两三位女士。还有来自邻近一所非理性学院的三四个老妇人和男孩；但没有其他人。这看起来不像银行正在做一项非常大的业务；然而我一直被告知，城里的每个人都与这个机构打交道。

I cannot describe all that took place in these inner precincts, for a sinister-looking person in a black gown came and made unpleasant gestures at me for peeping. I happened to have in my pocket one of the Musical Bank pieces, which had been given me by Mrs. Nosnibor, so I tried to tip him with it; but having seen what it was, he became so angry that I had to give him a piece of the other kind of money to pacify him. When I had done this he became civil directly. As soon as he was gone I ventured to take a second look, and saw Zulora in the very act of giving a piece of paper which looked like a cheque to one of the cashiers. He did not examine it, but putting his hand into an antique coffer hard by, he pulled out a quantity of metal pieces apparently at random, and handed them over without counting them; neither did Zulora count them, but put them into her purse and went back to her seat after dropping a few pieces of the other coinage into an alms box that stood by the cashier’s side. Mrs. Nosnibor and Arowhena then did likewise, but a little later they gave all (so far as I could see) that they had received from the cashier back to a verger, who I have no doubt put it back into the coffer from which it had been taken. They then began making towards the curtain; whereon I let it drop and retreated to a reasonable distance.
我无法描述在这些内部区域发生的一切，因为一个穿着黑袍、面容阴险的人走过来，对我偷看做出了令人不快的手势。我的口袋里碰巧有一张音乐银行的碎片，是诺斯尼伯夫人给我的，所以我想用它给他小费；但他没有得到任何回报。但看到那是什么后，他非常生气，我不得不给他一块另一种钱来安抚他。当我这样做时，他直接变得文明了。他一走，我就大胆地再看了一眼，看到祖洛拉正在把一张看起来像支票的纸交给一名收银员。他没有细看，而是把手伸进了旁边的一个古董保险箱里，显然是随意地掏出了一些金属件，没有数数就递了过去；祖洛拉也没有数，而是将它们放入钱包中，然后将其他硬币的几枚放入收银员旁边的施舍箱中，然后返回座位。诺斯尼博尔夫人和阿罗维纳夫人也做了同样的事，但过了一会儿，他们把从收银员那里收到的所有钱（据我所知）都还给了司事，我毫不怀疑他又把钱放回了保险箱。已被采取。然后他们开始走向幕布。然后我让它掉下来，退到一个合理的距离。

They soon joined me. For some few minutes we all kept silence, but at last I ventured to remark that the bank was not so busy to-day as it probably often was. On this Mrs. Nosnibor said that it was indeed melancholy to see what little heed people paid to the most precious of all institutions. I could say nothing in reply, but I have ever been of opinion that the greater part of mankind do approximately know where they get that which does them good.
他们很快就加入了我。我们都保持沉默了几分钟，但最后我大胆地说，银行今天不像往常那么忙。对此，诺斯尼博尔夫人表示，看到人们对最宝贵的机构如此漠不关心，确实令人感到悲伤。我无话可说，但我一直认为，大多数人大约知道他们从哪里得到对他们有好处的东西。

Mrs. Nosnibor went on to say that I must not think there was any want of confidence in the bank because I had seen so few people there; the heart of the country was thoroughly devoted to these establishments, and any sign of their being in danger would bring in support from the most unexpected quarters. It was only because people knew them to be so very safe, that in some cases (as she lamented to say in Mr. Nosnibor’s) they felt that their support was unnecessary. Moreover these institutions never departed from the safest and most approved banking principles. Thus they never allowed interest on deposit, a thing now frequently done by certain bubble companies, which by doing an illegitimate trade had drawn many customers away; and even the shareholders were fewer than formerly, owing to the innovations of these unscrupulous persons, for the Musical Banks paid little or no dividend, but divided their profits by way of bonus on the original shares once in every thirty thousand years; and as it was now only two thousand years since there had been one of these distributions, people felt that they could not hope for another in their own time and preferred investments whereby they got some more tangible return; all which, she said, was very melancholy to think of.
诺斯尼博尔夫人接着说，我一定不会认为人们对银行缺乏信心，因为我在那里见过的人太少了；国家的心脏完全投入到这些机构中，任何它们处于危险之中的迹象都会带来最意想不到的方面的支持。只是因为人们知道他们非常安全，所以在某些情况下（正如她在诺斯尼伯先生的故事中哀叹地说的那样），他们觉得他们的支持是不必要的。此外，这些机构从未偏离最安全和最受认可的银行原则。因此，他们从不允许存款利息，而现在某些泡沫公司经常这样做，通过非法交易吸引了许多客户；由于这些不法分子的创新，甚至股东也比以前少了，因为音乐银行很少或根本不支付股息，而是以每三万年一次的原始股份红利的方式分配利润；由于这种分配方式距今只有两千多年的时间了，人们觉得他们不能指望在自己的时代再有另一种分配方式，而更愿意进行投资，从而获得更切实的回报；她说，想到这一切就感到非常忧郁。

Having made these last admissions, she returned to her original statement, namely, that every one in the country really supported these banks. As to the fewness of the people, and the absence of the able-bodied, she pointed out to me with some justice that this was exactly what we ought to expect. The men who were most conversant about the stability of human institutions, such as the lawyers, men of science, doctors, statesmen, painters, and the like, were just those who were most likely to be misled by their own fancied accomplishments, and to be made unduly suspicious by their licentious desire for greater present return, which was at the root of nine-tenths of the opposition; by their vanity, which would prompt them to affect superiority to the prejudices of the vulgar; and by the stings of their own conscience, which was constantly upbraiding them in the most cruel manner on account of their bodies, which were generally diseased.
在做出最后的承认之后，她回到了最初的声明，即该国每个人都真正支持这些银行。至于人少、壮士少的问题，她颇有正义感地向我指出，这正是我们应该期待的。最熟悉人类制度稳定性的人，如律师、科学家、医生、政治家、画家等，正是那些最有可能被自己幻想的成就所误导的人，并由于他们对当前更大回报的放荡渴望而引起过度怀疑，这是十分之九的反对派的根源；由于他们的虚荣心，这会促使他们对庸俗的偏见表现出优越感；他们的良心不断地以最残酷的方式责备他们，因为他们的身体普遍患病。

Let a person’s intellect (she continued) be never so sound, unless his body is in absolute health, he can form no judgement worth having on matters of this kind. The body is everything: it need not perhaps be such a strong body (she said this because she saw that I was thinking of the old and infirm-looking folks whom I had seen in the bank), but it must be in perfect health; in this case, the less active strength it had the more free would be the working of the intellect, and therefore the sounder the conclusion. The people, then, whom I had seen at the bank were in reality the very ones whose opinions were most worth having; they declared its advantages to be incalculable, and even professed to consider the immediate return to be far larger than they were entitled to; and so she ran on, nor did she leave off till we had got back to the house.
一个人的智力（她继续说）永远不要那么健全，除非他的身体绝对健康，否则他无法对这类事情做出任何值得做出的判断。身体就是一切：也许不需要那么强壮的身体（她这么说是因为她看到我想起了我在银行里看到的那些年老体弱的人），但它必须非常健康；在这种情况下，它的积极力量越少，智力的运作就越自由，因此得出的结论就越合理。那么，我在银行见过的那些人实际上是那些最值得听取意见的人；他们的观点是正确的。他们宣称它的好处是无法估量的，甚至声称认为立即的回报远远大于他们应得的回报；于是她继续跑，直到我们回到家才停下来。

She might say what she pleased, but her manner carried no conviction, and later on I saw signs of general indifference to these banks that were not to be mistaken. Their supporters often denied it, but the denial was generally so couched as to add another proof of its existence. In commercial panics, and in times of general distress, the people as a mass did not so much as even think of turning to these banks. A few might do so, some from habit and early training, some from the instinct that prompts us to catch at any straw when we think ourselves drowning, but few from a genuine belief that the Musical Banks could save them from financial ruin, if they were unable to meet their engagements in the other kind of currency.
她可以说她想说的话，但她的态度没有说服力，后来我看到了对这些银行普遍漠不关心的迹象，这一点是不容误解的。他们的支持者经常否认这一点，但这种否认的措辞通常是为了证明其存在。在商业恐慌和普遍困难时期，广大人民甚至没有想过求助于这些银行。有些人可能会这样做，有些是出于习惯和早期训练，有些是出于本能，当我们认为自己快要淹死时，促使我们抓住任何一根稻草，但很少有人真正相信音乐银行可以使他们免于财务破产，如果他们无法用另一种货币履行其约定。

In conversation with one of the Musical Bank managers I ventured to hint this as plainly as politeness would allow. He said that it had been more or less true till lately; but that now they had put fresh stained glass windows into all the banks in the country, and repaired the buildings, and enlarged the organs; the presidents, moreover, had taken to riding in omnibuses and talking nicely to people in the streets, and to remembering the ages of their children, and giving them things when they were naughty, so that all would henceforth go smoothly.
在与音乐银行的一位经理交谈时，我冒昧地在礼貌允许的范围内尽可能简单地暗示了这一点。他说，直到最近，这或多或少都是正确的。但现在他们已经为全国所有银行安装了新的彩色玻璃窗，修复了建筑物，扩大了机关；此外，总统们还习惯于乘坐公共汽车，在街上与人们亲切交谈，记住孩子的年龄，在他们顽皮时给他们东西，以便今后一切顺利。

‘But haven’t you done anything to the money itself?’ said I, timidly.
“但是你没有对钱本身做任何事吗？”我胆怯地说。

‘It is not necessary,’ he rejoined; ‘not in the least necessary, I assure you.’
“没有必要，”他回答道。 “我向你保证，完全没有必要。”

And yet any one could see that the money given out at these banks was not that with which people bought their bread, meat, and clothing. It was like it at a first glance, and was stamped with designs that were often of great beauty; it was not, again, a spurious coinage, made with the intention that it should be mistaken for the money in actual use; it was more like a toy money, or the counters used for certain games at cards; for, notwithstanding the beauty of the designs, the material on which they were stamped was as nearly valueless as possible. Some were covered with tin foil, but the greater part were frankly of a cheap base metal the exact nature of which I was not able to determine. Indeed they were made of a great variety of metals, or, perhaps more accurately, alloys, some of which were hard, while others would bend easily and assume almost any form which their possessor might desire at the moment.
然而任何人都可以看出，这些银行发放的钱并不是人们用来购买面包、肉类和衣服的钱。乍一看就像它一样，并且印有通常非常美丽的图案。再说一次，它并不是一种伪造的货币，其目的是为了被误认为是实际使用的货币；它更像是一种玩具钱，或者是用于某些纸牌游戏的计数器；因为，尽管设计很美，但印在其上的材料却几乎毫无价值。有些是用锡箔覆盖的，但坦率地说，大部分是廉价的贱金属，我无法确定其确切性质。事实上，它们是由各种各样的金属制成的，或者更准确地说，是合金制成的，其中一些很硬，而另一些则很容易弯曲，并呈现出它们的拥有者当时可能想要的几乎任何形状。

Of course every one knew that their commercial value was nil, but all those who wished to be considered respectable thought it incumbent upon them to retain a few coins in their possession, and to let them be seen from time to time in their hands and purses. Not only this, but they would stick to it that the current coin of the realm was dross in comparison with the Musical Bank coinage. Perhaps, however, the strangest thing of all was that these very people would at times make fun in small ways of the whole system; indeed, there was hardly any insinuation against it which they would not tolerate and even applaud in their daily newspapers if written anonymously, while if the same thing were said without ambiguity to their faces—nominative case verb and accusative being all in their right places, and doubt impossible—they would consider themselves very seriously and justly outraged, and accuse the speaker of being unwell.
当然，每个人都知道它们的商业价值为零，但所有希望被视为受人尊敬的人都认为他们有责任保留几枚硬币，并让人们时不时地在他们的手中和钱包中看到它们。 。不仅如此，他们还坚持认为，与音乐银行的硬币相比，现在的王国硬币就是渣滓。然而，也许最奇怪的是，这些人有时会以整个系统的小方式取笑；事实上，如果是匿名写的，他们的日报上几乎没有他们不会容忍甚至鼓掌的任何反对它的暗示，而如果同样的事情当着他们的面毫不含糊地说出来——主格动词和宾格都在正确的位置，怀疑是不可能的——他们会认为自己非常严肃、公正地感到愤怒，并指责说话者身体不适。

I never could understand (neither can I quite do so now, though I begin to see better what they mean) why a single currency should not suffice them; it would seem to me as though all their dealings would have been thus greatly simplified; but I was met with a look of horror if ever I dared to hint at it. Even those who to my certain knowledge kept only just enough money at the Musical Banks to swear by, would call the other banks (where their securities really lay) cold, deadening, paralysing, and the like.
我永远无法理解（我现在也不能完全理解它们的含义，尽管我开始更好地理解它们的含义）为什么单一货币不能满足它们；在我看来，他们所有的交易都会因此而大大简化。但如果我敢暗示这一点，我就会遭到惊恐的表情。据我所知，即使是那些在音乐银行只存了足够发誓的钱的人，也会称其他银行（他们的证券真正存放在那里）冷漠、麻木、瘫痪等等。

I noticed another thing, moreover, which struck me greatly. I was taken to the opening of one of these banks in a neighbouring town, and saw a large assemblage of cashiers and managers. I sat opposite them and scanned their faces attentively. They did not please me; they lacked, with few exceptions, the true Erewhonian frankness; and an equal number from any other class would have looked happier and better men. When I met them in the streets they did not seem like other people, but had, as a general rule, a cramped expression upon their faces which pained and depressed me.
此外，我还注意到另一件事，令我印象深刻。我被带到邻近城镇的其中一家银行的开业处，看到一大群出纳员和经理。我坐在他们对面，仔细地扫视他们的脸。他们不让我高兴；除了少数例外，他们缺乏真正的埃雷洪人的坦率。同等数量的其他阶级的人看起来会更快乐、更优秀。当我在街上遇见他们时，他们看起来不像其他人，但一般来说，他们的脸上都有一种局促的表情，这让我感到痛苦和沮丧。

Those who came from the country were better; they seemed to have lived less as a separate class, and to be freer and healthier; but in spite of my seeing not a few whose looks were benign and noble, I could not help asking myself concerning the greater number of those whom I met, whether Erewhon would be a better country if their expression were to be transferred to the people in general. I answered myself emphatically, no. The expression on the faces of the high Ydgrunites was that which one would wish to diffuse, and not that of the cashiers.
来自乡下的人更好；他们似乎不再像一个独立的阶级那样生活，而且更加自由和健康。但是，尽管我看到了不少看上去善良而高贵的人，但我还是忍不住问自己，对于我所遇到的更多人来说，如果将他们的表达转移到当地人民身上，埃里洪是否会成为一个更好的国家？一般的。我斩钉截铁地回答自己，不。伊古鲁人的高层脸上的表情是人们希望散布的表情，而不是收银员的表情。

A man’s expression is his sacrament; it is the outward and visible sign of his inward and spiritual grace, or want of grace; and as I looked at the a majority of these men, I could not help feeling that there must be a something in their lives which had stunted their natural development, and that they would have been more healthily minded in any other profession. I was always sorry for them, for in nine cases out of ten they were well-meaning persons; they were in the main very poorly paid; their constitutions were as a rule above suspicion; and there were recorded numberless instances of their self-sacrifice and generosity; but they had had the misfortune to have been betrayed into a false position at an age for the most part when their judgement was not matured, and after having been kept in studied ignorance of the real difficulties of the system. But this did not make their position the less a false one, and its bad effects upon themselves were unmistakable.
一个人的表达是他的圣礼；这是他内在和精神上的恩典或缺乏恩典的外在和可见的标志；当我看到这些人中的大多数时，我不禁感到他们的生活中一定有什么东西阻碍了他们的自然发展，而且他们在任何其他职业中都会有更健康的心态。我一直为他们感到难过，因为十有八九他们都是好心人；他们的工资大体上很低；他们的宪法通常是不容怀疑的。他们的自我牺牲和慷慨的事例被记录下来。但他们不幸的是，在他们的判断力尚未成熟的年龄，并且在对体制的真正困难一无所知之后，他们就被出卖到了一个错误的位置。但这并没有使他们的立场变得不那么虚假，而且这对他们自己造成的不良影响是显而易见的。

Few people would speak quite openly and freely before them, which struck me as a very bad sign. When they were in the room every one would talk as though all currency save that of the Musical Banks should be abolished; and yet they knew perfectly well that even the cashiers themselves hardly used the Musical Bank money more than other people. It was expected of them that they should appear to do so, but this was all. The less thoughtful of them did not seem particularly unhappy, but many were plainly sick at heart, though perhaps they hardly knew it, and would not have owned to being so. Some few were opponents of the whole system; but these were liable to be dismissed from their employment at any moment, and this rendered them very careful, for a man who had once been cashier at a Musical Bank was out of the field for other employment, and was generally unfitted for it by reason of that course of treatment which was commonly called his education. In fact it was a career from which retreat was virtually impossible, and into which young men were generally induced to enter before they could be reasonably expected, considering their training, to have formed any opinions of their own. Not unfrequently, indeed, they were induced, by what we in England should call undue influence, concealment, and fraud. Few indeed were those who had the courage to insist on seeing both sides of the question before they committed themselves to what was practically a leap in the dark. One would have thought that caution in this respect was an elementary principle,—one of the first things that an honourable man would teach his boy to understand; but in practice it was not so.
很少有人会在他们面前公开、自由地讲话，这对我来说是一个非常糟糕的迹象。当他们在房间里时，每个人都会谈论好像除了音乐银行之外的所有货币都应该被废除；然而他们非常清楚，即使是出纳员自己也并不比其他人更多地使用音乐银行的钱。人们期望他们会这样做，但仅此而已。他们中不太体贴的人似乎并没有特别不高兴，但许多人显然心里不舒服，尽管他们可能几乎不知道这一点，也不会承认自己是这样。有些人是整个体系的反对者；有些人是整个体系的反对者。但这些人随时都有可能被解雇，这让他们非常小心，因为曾经在音乐银行当过出纳员的人现在已经不再从事其他工作了，而且通常由于某种原因不适合做这份工作。那个治疗过程通常被称为他的教育。事实上，这是一个几乎不可能退出的职业，考虑到他们所受的训练，年轻人通常在可以合理地预期他们形成自己的观点之前就被诱导进入了这个职业。事实上，这种情况并不少见，是由我们英国人所谓的不当影响、隐瞒和欺诈所诱发的。确实很少有人有勇气坚持看到问题的两面，然后才做出实际上是在黑暗中跳跃的决定。人们可能会认为，在这方面的谨慎是一项基本原则，这是一个正直的人会教他的孩子首先要理解的事情之一；但实际上并非如此。

I even saw cases in which parents bought the right of presenting to the office of cashier at one of these banks, with the fixed determination that some one of their sons (perhaps a mere child) should fill it. There was the lad himself—growing up with every promise of becoming a good and honourable man—but utterly without warning concerning the iron shoe which his natural protector was providing for him. Who could say that the whole thing would not end in a life-long lie, and vain chafing to escape? I confess that there were few things in Erewhon which shocked me more than this.
我什至看到这样的案例，父母购买了这些银行之一出纳办公室的出纳权，并坚定地认为他们的某个儿子（也许只是一个孩子）应该担任这一职务。还有那个小伙子本人——在成长过程中，他满怀成为一个善良而值得尊​​敬的人的承诺——但完全没有警告过他的天然保护者为他提供的铁鞋。谁能说这一切不会以终生的谎言和徒劳的逃避而告终呢？我承认，在埃里洪，没有什么比这更让我震惊的了。

Yet we do something not so very different from this even in England, and as regards the dual commercial system, all countries have, and have had, a law of the land, and also another law, which, though professedly more sacred, has far less effect on their daily life and actions. It seems as though the need for some law over and above, and sometimes even conflicting with, the law of the land, must spring from something that lies deep down in man’s nature; indeed, it is hard to think that man could ever have become man at all, but for the gradual evolution of a perception that though this world looms so large when we are in it, it may seem a little thing when we have got away from it.
然而，即使在英国，我们所做的事情也与此没有太大不同，并且就双重商业制度而言，所有国家都拥有并且曾经拥有一项土地法，以及另一项法律，尽管该法律自称更神圣，但远非如此。对他们的日常生活和行动的影响较小。似乎对某种超越当地法律、有时甚至与当地法律相冲突的法律的需要，必定源于人类本性深处的某些东西；事实上，很难想象人能成为人，但随着人们逐渐形成这样一种观念，即虽然当我们身处其中时，这个世界显得如此巨大，但当我们远离这个世界时，它可能显得微不足道。它。

When man had grown to the perception that in the everlasting Is- and-Is-Not of nature, the world and all that it contains, including man, is at the same time both seen and unseen, he felt the need of two rules of life, one for the seen, and the other for the unseen side of things. For the laws affecting the seen world he claimed the sanction of seen powers; for the unseen (of which he knows nothing save that it exists and is powerful) he appealed to the unseen power (of which, again, he knows nothing save that it exists and is powerful) to which he gives the name of God.
当人类逐渐认识到，在自然界永恒的“是与非”中，世界及其所包含的一切，包括人类，同时既是可见的又是不可见的，他感到需要两条规则：生活，一个是为了看得见的一面，另一个是为了看不见的一面。对于影响可见世界的法律，他要求可见权力的认可。对于看不见的力量（除了它的存在和强大之外，他一无所知），他诉诸于看不见的力量（除了它的存在和强大之外，他一无所知），他将这种力量称为上帝。

Some Erewhonian opinions concerning the intelligence of the unborn embryo, that I regret my space will not permit me to lay before the reader, have led me to conclude that the Erewhonian Musical Banks, and perhaps the religious systems of all countries, are now more or less of an attempt to uphold the unfathomable and unconscious instinctive wisdom of millions of past generations, against the comparatively shallow, consciously reasoning, and ephemeral conclusions drawn from that of the last thirty or forty.
一些关于未出生胚胎的智力的埃雷洪尼亚观点，我很遗憾我的篇幅不允许我向读者展示，这些观点使我得出这样的结论：埃雷洪尼亚音乐库，也许还有所有国家的宗教体系，现在或多或少都已经存在了。更不是试图维护过去数百万代人深不可测和无意识的本能智慧，反对过去三十或四十代人得出的相对肤浅的、有意识的推理和短暂的结论。

The saving feature of the Erewhonian Musical Bank system (as distinct from the quasi-idolatrous views which coexist with it, and on which I will touch later) was that while it bore witness to the existence of a kingdom that is not of this world, it made no attempt to pierce the veil that hides it from human eyes. It is here that almost all religions go wrong. Their priests try to make us believe that they know more about the unseen world than those whose eyes are still blinded by the seen, can ever know—forgetting that while to deny the existence of an unseen kingdom is bad, to pretend that we know more about it than its bare existence is no better.
埃雷洪尼亚音乐银行系统的拯救特征（与与之共存的准偶像崇拜观点不同，我稍后会谈到）是，虽然它见证了一个不属于这个世界的王国的存在，它并没有试图刺破人类眼睛看不见的面纱。正是在这里，几乎所有的宗教都出了问题。他们的祭司试图让我们相信，他们对看不见的世界的了解比那些眼睛仍然被看得见的东西蒙蔽的人所能知道的要多——忘记了，虽然否认看不见的王国的存在是不好的，但假装我们知道得更多关于它，并不比它的存在好多少。

This chapter is already longer than I intended, but I should like to say that in spite of the saving feature of which I have just spoken, I cannot help thinking that the Erewhonians are on the eve of some great change in their religious opinions, or at any rate in that part of them which finds expression through their Musical Banks. So far as I could see, fully ninety per cent. of the population of the metropolis looked upon these banks with something not far removed from contempt. If this is so, any such startling event as is sure to arise sooner or later, may serve as nucleus to a new order of things that will be more in harmony with both the heads and hearts of the people.
本章已经比我预想的要长了，但我想说的是，尽管我刚才谈到了拯救的特点，我还是忍不住想，埃雷洪尼亚人正处于他们的宗教观念发生重大变化的前夕，或者无论如何，他们的那部分通过他们的音乐库得到表达。据我所知，百分之九十。这座大都市的居民以近乎蔑视的目光看待这些银行。如果真是这样，那么任何迟早肯定会发生的令人震惊的事件都可能成为新秩序的核心，而新秩序将更加符合人们的头脑和心灵。

CHAPTER XVI: AROWHENA
第十六章：阿罗维娜

The reader will perhaps have learned by this time a thing which I had myself suspected before I had been twenty-four hours in Mr. Nosnibor’s house—I mean, that though the Nosnibors showed me every attention, I could not cordially like them, with the exception of Arowhena who was quite different from the rest. They were not fair samples of Erewhonians. I saw many families with whom they were on visiting terms, whose manners charmed me more than I know how to say, but I never could get over my original prejudice against Mr. Nosnibor for having embezzled the money. Mrs. Nosnibor, too, was a very worldly woman, yet to hear her talk one would have thought that she was singularly the reverse; neither could I endure Zulora; Arowhena however was perfection.
读者此时也许已经了解到一件事，在我在诺斯尼伯先生家里待了二十四小时之前，我自己就曾怀疑过这一点——我的意思是，尽管诺斯尼伯一家对我表现出极大的关注，但我无法真诚地喜欢他们，因为阿罗菲娜是个例外，她与其他人截然不同。他们不是埃雷洪人的公平样本。我见到了许多与他们有过往往来的家庭，他们的举止让我着迷得难以言喻，但我始终无法克服对诺斯尼博尔先生贪污钱财的最初偏见。诺斯尼伯夫人也是一位非常世俗的女人，但听她说话，人们会认为她恰恰相反；我也无法忍受祖洛拉；然而，Arowhena 却是完美的。

She it was who ran all the little errands for her mother and Mr. Nosnibor and Zulora, and gave those thousand proofs of sweetness and unselfishness which some one member of a family is generally required to give. All day long it was Arowhena this, and Arowhena that; but she never seemed to know that she was being put upon, and was always bright and willing from morning till evening. Zulora certainly was very handsome, but Arowhena was infinitely the more graceful of the two and was the very ne plus ultra of youth and beauty. I will not attempt to describe her, for anything that I could say would fall so far short of the reality as only to mislead the reader. Let him think of the very loveliest that he can imagine, and he will still be below the truth. Having said this much, I need hardly say that I had fallen in love with her.
正是她为她的母亲、诺斯尼博尔先生和祖罗拉跑了所有的小差事，并提供了成千上万的甜蜜和无私的证明，而这些是一个家庭中的某个成员通常需要提供的。整天都是阿罗时那这个，阿罗时那那个；但她似乎从来不知道自己被欺骗了，从早到晚总是神采奕奕、心甘情愿。祖洛拉确实非常英俊，但阿罗维娜在两人中更加优雅，而且是最年轻和最美丽的一个。我不会试图描述她，因为我能说的任何话都与现实相去甚远，只会误导读者。让他去想他能想象到的最可爱的事情，他仍然会低于事实。说了这么多，不用说我已经爱上她了。

She must have seen what I felt for her, but I tried my hardest not to let it appear even by the slightest sign. I had many reasons for this. I had no idea what Mr. and Mrs. Nosnibor would say to it; and I knew that Arowhena would not look at me (at any rate not yet) if her father and mother disapproved, which they probably would, considering that I had nothing except the pension of about a pound a day of our money which the King had granted me. I did not yet know of a more serious obstacle.
她一定看出了我对她的感情，但我尽力不让它表现出来，哪怕是最轻微的迹象。我这样做有很多原因。我不知道诺斯尼博尔先生和诺斯尼博尔夫人会对它说什么；我知道，如果她的父母不同意，阿罗维娜不会看我（至少现在还不会），他们很可能会的，考虑到我除了国王每天大约一英镑的养老金之外一无所有。授予我。我还不知道还有什么更严重的障碍。

In the meantime, I may say that I had been presented at court, and was told that my reception had been considered as singularly gracious; indeed, I had several interviews both with the King and Queen, at which from time to time the Queen got everything from me that I had in the world, clothes and all, except the two buttons I had given to Yram, the loss of which seemed to annoy her a good deal. I was presented with a court suit, and her Majesty had my old clothes put upon a wooden dummy, on which they probably remain, unless they have been removed in consequence of my subsequent downfall. His Majesty’s manners were those of a cultivated English gentleman. He was much pleased at hearing that our government was monarchical, and that the mass of the people were resolute that it should not be changed; indeed, I was so much encouraged by the evident pleasure with which he heard me, that I ventured to quote to him those beautiful lines of Shakespeare’s -
与此同时，我可以说，我已经被带到法庭，并被告知我的接待被认为是异常亲切的。事实上，我与国王和王后进行了几次会面，王后时不时地从我那里得到了我在世界上拥有的一切，衣服等等，除了我给伊拉姆的两颗纽扣，这颗纽扣丢失了。似乎让她很恼火。我收到了一份法庭诉讼，女王陛下把我的旧衣服放在一个木制假人身上，它们可能会留在上面，除非它们因我随后的垮台而被移走。国王陛下的举止是一位有教养的英国绅士的举止。当他听说我们的政府是君主制的，而且人民群众坚决不应该改变它时，他感到非常高兴。事实上，他听到我讲话时的明显愉悦使我深受鼓舞，以至于我斗胆向他引用莎士比亚的那些美丽的台词——

‘There’s a divinity doth hedge a king, Rough hew him how we may;.’
“有一位神灵围困着一位国王，我们可以如何粗暴地砍伐他；”

but I was sorry I had done so afterwards, for I do not think his Majesty admired the lines as much as I could have wished.
但事后我很遗憾自己这样做了，因为我认为国王陛下并不像我所希望的那样欣赏这些诗句。

There is no occasion for me to dwell further upon my experience of the court, but I ought perhaps to allude to one of my conversations with the King, inasmuch as it was pregnant with the most important consequences.
我没有机会进一步详述我在法庭上的经历，但我也许应该提及我与国王的一次谈话，因为它孕育着最重要的后果。

He had been asking me about my watch, and enquiring whether such dangerous inventions were tolerated in the country from which I came. I owned with some confusion that watches were not uncommon; but observing the gravity which came over his Majesty’s face I presumed to say that they were fast dying out, and that we had few if any other mechanical contrivances of which he was likely to disapprove. Upon his asking me to name some of our most advanced machines, I did not dare to tell him of our steam-engines and railroads and electric telegraphs, and was puzzling my brains to think what I could say, when, of all things in the world, balloons suggested themselves, and I gave him an account of a very remarkable ascent which was made some years ago. The King was too polite to contradict, but I felt sure that he did not believe me, and from that day forward though he always showed me the attention which was due to my genius (for in this light was my complexion regarded), he never questioned me about the manners and customs of my country.
他一直在问我手表的事，并询问我的祖国是否容忍这种危险的发明。我有些困惑地承认，手表并不罕见。但是，观察国王陛下脸上的严肃表情，我猜想它们正在迅速消失，而且我们几乎没有任何其他机械发明，他可能会不赞成。当他让我说出一些我们最先进的机器时，我不敢告诉他我们的蒸汽机、铁路和电报，我绞尽脑汁地想，在世界上的所有事物中，我能说些什么呢？我向他讲述了几年前一次非常了不起的攀登。国王很有礼貌，没有反驳，但我确信他不相信我，从那天起，尽管他总是对我表现出由于我的天才而引起的关注（因为从这个角度来看我的肤色），他从来没有问我有关我国的风俗习惯。

To return, however, to Arowhena. I soon gathered that neither Mr. nor Mrs. Nosnibor would have any objection to my marrying into the family; a physical excellence is considered in Erewhon as a set off against almost any other disqualification, and my light hair was sufficient to make me an eligible match. But along with this welcome fact I gathered another which filled me with dismay: I was expected to marry Zulora, for whom I had already conceived a great aversion. At first I hardly noticed the little hints and the artifices which were resorted to in order to bring us together, but after a time they became too plain. Zulora, whether she was in love with me or not, was bent on marrying me, and I gathered in talking with a young gentleman of my acquaintance who frequently visited the house and whom I greatly disliked, that it was considered a sacred and inviolable rule that whoever married into a family must marry the eldest daughter at that time unmarried. The young gentleman urged this upon me so frequently that I at last saw he was in love with Arowhena himself, and wanted me to get Zulora out of the way; but others told me the same story as to the custom of the country, and I saw there was a serious difficulty. My only comfort was that Arowhena snubbed my rival and would not look at him. Neither would she look at me; nevertheless there was a difference in the manner of her disregard; this was all I could get from her.
然而，我们还是要回到阿罗维纳。我很快就发现，诺斯尼伯先生和诺斯尼伯太太都不会反对我嫁入这个家族。在埃里洪，出色的身体素质被认为是对抗几乎所有其他取消资格的条件，而我的浅色头发足以使我成为合格的比赛对象。但除了这个令人欣喜的事实之外，我还发现了另一个令我沮丧的事实：我本来已经对祖罗拉产生了极大的厌恶，但我却被期望嫁给他。起初，我几乎没有注意到为了让我们走到一起而采取的小暗示和技巧，但过了一段时间，它们就变得太简单了。祖罗拉，无论她是否爱我，都一心要嫁给我，我和一位经常来我家拜访、我非常不喜欢的熟人年轻绅士交谈时，我认为这是一条神圣不可侵犯的规则。凡嫁入一个家庭的，必须娶当时未婚的长女。这位年轻的绅士如此频繁地向我提出这一点，以至于我终于看出他爱上了阿罗维纳本人，并希望我把祖洛拉让开。但其他人告诉我同样的故事，关于这个国家的习俗，我看到了一个严重的困难。唯一让我感到安慰的是，阿罗维娜冷落了我的对手，连看都不看他一眼。她也不肯看我；然而，她的漠视方式却有所不同。这是我能从她那里得到的一切。

Not that she avoided me; on the contrary I had many a tete-a-tete with her, for her mother and sister were anxious for me to deposit some part of my pension in the Musical Banks, this being in accordance with the dictates of their goddess Ydgrun, of whom both Mrs. Nosnibor and Zulora were great devotees. I was not sure whether I had kept my secret from being perceived by Arowhena herself, but none of the others suspected me, so she was set upon me to get me to open an account, at any rate pro forma, with the Musical Banks; and I need hardly say that she succeeded. But I did not yield at once; I enjoyed the process of being argued with too keenly to lose it by a prompt concession; besides, a little hesitation rendered the concession itself more valuable. It was in the course of conversations on this subject that I learned the more defined religious opinions of the Erewhonians, that coexist with the Musical Bank system, but are not recognised by those curious institutions. I will describe them as briefly as possible in the following chapters before I return to the personal adventures of Arowhena and myself.
并不是说她回避了我；而是她回避了我。相反，我与她进行了多次面对面的交谈，因为她的母亲和姐姐急于让我将部分养老金存入音乐银行，这是按照她们的女神伊德格林的指示进行的，其中诺斯尼伯夫人和祖洛拉夫人都是伟大的奉献者。我不确定我是否保守了秘密，不让阿罗希娜本人发现，但其他人都没有怀疑我，所以她决定让我在音乐银行开一个账户，至少是形式上的；我几乎不用说她成功了。但我并没有立刻屈服；我很享受与人激烈争论的过程，我不会因为迅速让步而失去它。此外，一点点的犹豫就使让步本身变得更有价值。正是在关于这个主题的对话过程中，我了解到埃雷洪人更明确的宗教观点，这些观点与音乐银行系统共存，但不被那些好奇的机构认可。在我回到 Arowhena 和我自己的个人冒险之前，我将在接下来的章节中尽可能简要地描述它们。

They were idolaters, though of a comparatively enlightened kind; but here, as in other things, there was a discrepancy between their professed and actual belief, for they had a genuine and potent faith which existed without recognition alongside of their idol worship.
他们是偶像崇拜者，尽管属于比较开明的那种。但在这里，就像在其他事情上一样，他们所宣称的信仰和实际的信仰之间存在着差异，因为他们有一种真正而有力的信仰，这种信仰与他们的偶像崇拜并存，但没有得到承认。

The gods whom they worship openly are personifications of human qualities, as justice, strength, hope, fear, love, &c., &c. The people think that prototypes of these have a real objective existence in a region far beyond the clouds, holding, as did the ancients, that they are like men and women both in body and passion, except that they are even comelier and more powerful, and also that they can render themselves invisible to human eyesight. They are capable of being propitiated by mankind and of coming to the assistance of those who ask their aid. Their interest in human affairs is keen, and on the whole beneficent; but they become very angry if neglected, and punish rather the first they come upon, than the actual person who has offended them; their fury being blind when it is raised, though never raised without reason. They will not punish with any less severity when people sin against them from ignorance, and without the chance of having had knowledge; they will take no excuses of this kind, but are even as the English law, which assumes itself to be known to every one.
他们公开崇拜的神是人类品质的化身，如正义、力量、希望、恐惧、爱等等。人们认为它们的原型在遥远的云层之外真实客观存在，认为它们和古人一样，无论是肉体还是情欲，都像男人和女人一样，只是更加美丽、更加强大，而且它们可以使自己对人类的视力来说是不可见的。他们能够得到人类的安抚，并能够向那些向他们求助的人提供帮助。他们对人类事务非常感兴趣，而且总体上是仁慈的。但如果受到忽视，他们就会非常生气，并且会惩罚他们第一个遇到的人，而不是真正冒犯他们的人。他们的愤怒在爆发时是盲目的，尽管从来不会无缘无故地爆发。当人们因无知而没有获得知识的机会而得罪他们时，他们不会以更严厉的方式惩罚他们；他们不会采取此类借口，而是就像英国法律一样，它假定自己是人人都知道的。

Thus they have a law that two pieces of matter may not occupy the same space at the same moment, which law is presided over and administered by the gods of time and space jointly, so that if a flying stone and a man’s head attempt to outrage these gods, by ‘arrogating a right which they do not possess’ (for so it is written in one of their books), and to occupy the same space simultaneously, a severe punishment, sometimes even death itself, is sure to follow, without any regard to whether the stone knew that the man’s head was there, or the head the stone; this at least is their view of the common accidents of life. Moreover, they hold their deities to be quite regardless of motives. With them it is the thing done which is everything, and the motive goes for nothing.
因此他们有一个法则，即两块物质不能同时占据同一个空间，这个法则是由时空诸神共同主持和管理的，因此，如果一块飞石和一个人头试图激怒这些神通过“剥夺他们不拥有的权利”（因为他们的一本书中是这么写的），并同时占据同一个空间，严厉的惩罚，有时甚至是死亡本身，肯定会随之而来，而无需担心。是否考虑到石头是否知道那个人的头在那里，或者石头是否知道头在那里；这至少是他们对生活中常见事故的看法。此外，无论动机如何，他们都认为自己的神是完全独立的。对他们来说，所做的事情就是一切，动机毫无意义。

Thus they hold it strictly forbidden for a man to go without common air in his lungs for more than a very few minutes; and if by any chance he gets into the water, the air-god is very angry, and will not suffer it; no matter whether the man got into the water by accident or on purpose, whether through the attempt to save a child or through presumptuous contempt of the air-god, the air-god will kill him, unless he keeps his head high enough out of the water, and thus gives the air-god his due.
因此，他们严格禁止一个人在肺部没有空气的情况下行走超过几分钟。如果他万一掉进水里，空气之神就会非常生气，不会容忍。无论这个人是偶然还是故意落入水中，无论是为了拯救一个孩子还是出于对空气之神的傲慢蔑视，空气之神都会杀死他，除非他把头保持得足够高，以免被水淹没。水，从而给予空气神应得的。

This with regard to the deities who manage physical affairs. Over and above these they personify hope, fear, love, and so forth, giving them temples and priests, and carving likenesses of them in stone, which they verily believe to be faithful representations of living beings who are only not human in being more than human. If any one denies the objective existence of these divinities, and says that there is really no such being as a beautiful woman called Justice, with her eyes blinded and a pair of scales, positively living and moving in a remote and ethereal region, but that justice is only the personified expression of certain modes of human thought and action—they say that he denies the existence of justice in denying her personality, and that he is a wanton disturber of men’s religious convictions. They detest nothing so much as any attempt to lead them to higher spiritual conceptions of the deities whom they profess to worship. Arowhena and I had a pitched battle on this point, and should have had many more but for my prudence in allowing her to get the better of me.
这是关于管理物质事务的神灵。除此之外，他们将希望、恐惧、爱等等人格化，为他们提供寺庙和祭司，并在石头上雕刻他们的肖像，他们坚信这些是生物的忠实代表，而这些生物只是在本质上不是人类而已。人类。如果有人否认这些神祇的客观存在，并说确实不存在一位名叫正义的美丽女子，双目失明，长着一对鳞片，在遥远而空灵的地方积极地生活和活动，但那正义只是人类某些思想和行为模式的拟人化表达——他们说他否认了正义的存在，就否定了她的人格，说他是对人类宗教信仰的肆意扰乱者。他们最讨厌任何试图引导他们对他们自称崇拜的神明产生更高精神观念的行为。阿罗维娜和我在这一点上发生了一场激烈的争斗，如果不是我谨慎地让她占了上风，本来应该有更多的争斗。

I am sure that in her heart she was suspicious of her own position for she returned more than once to the subject. ‘Can you not see,’ I had exclaimed, ‘that the fact of justice being admirable will not be affected by the absence of a belief in her being also a living agent? Can you really think that men will be one whit less hopeful, because they no longer believe that hope is an actual person?’ She shook her head, and said that with men’s belief in the personality all incentive to the reverence of the thing itself, as justice or hope, would cease; men from that hour would never be either just or hopeful again.
我相信她心里对自己的立场有所怀疑，因为她不止一次回到这个话题。 “你难道看不出来吗，”我大声说道，“正义令人钦佩的事实不会因为不相信她也是一个活着的代理人而受到影响吗？”你真的认为男人会因为不再相信希望是一个真实的人而变得不那么有希望吗？”她摇了摇头，说男人对人格的信仰都会激发对事物本身的敬畏，正义或希望都会消失；从那时起，人们就再也不会公正或充满希望了。

I could not move her, nor, indeed, did I seriously wish to do so. She deferred to me in most things, but she never shrank from maintaining her opinions if they were put in question; nor does she to this day abate one jot of her belief in the religion of her childhood, though in compliance with my repeated entreaties she has allowed herself to be baptized into the English Church. She has, however, made a gloss upon her original faith to the effect that her baby and I are the only human beings exempt from the vengeance of the deities for not believing in their personality. She is quite clear that we are exempted. She should never have so strong a conviction of it otherwise. How it has come about she does not know, neither does she wish to know; there are things which it is better not to know and this is one of them; but when I tell her that I believe in her deities as much as she does—and that it is a difference about words, not things, she becomes silent with a slight emphasis.
我无法感动她，事实上，我也不想这么做。她在大多数事情上都听从我的意见，但如果有人质疑她的观点，她也毫不犹豫地坚持自己的观点。尽管在我一再的恳求下，她接受了英国教会的洗礼，但直到今天，她对童年时所信奉的宗教的信仰也没有丝毫减弱。然而，她对她最初的信仰进行了粉饰，大意是她的孩子和我是唯一可以免受神灵报复的人类，因为他们不相信他们的人格。她很清楚我们是豁免的。否则她不应该有如此强烈的信念。她不知道，也不想知道这是怎么发生的。有些事情最好不要知道，这就是其中之一；但当我告诉她我和她一样相信她的神灵时——而且区别在于言语，而不是事物，她变得沉默了，并略微加重了语气。

I own that she very nearly conquered me once; for she asked me what I should think if she were to tell me that my God, whose nature and attributes I had been explaining to her, was but the expression for man’s highest conception of goodness, wisdom, and power; that in order to generate a more vivid conception of so great and glorious a thought, man had personified it and called it by a name; that it was an unworthy conception of the Deity to hold Him personal, inasmuch as escape from human contingencies became thus impossible; that the real thing men should worship was the Divine, whereinsoever they could find it; that ‘God’ was but man’s way of expressing his sense of the Divine; that as justice, hope, wisdom, &c., were all parts of goodness, so God was the expression which embraced all goodness and all good power; that people would no more cease to love God on ceasing to believe in His objective personality, than they had ceased to love justice on discovering that she was not really personal; nay, that they would never truly love Him till they saw Him thus.
我承认她有一次差一点就征服了我。因为她问我，如果她告诉我，我向她解释过的上帝的本性和属性，只是人类对善良、智慧和力量的最高概念的表达，我会怎么想？为了对如此伟大和光荣的思想产生更生动的概念，人类将其拟人化并为其命名；将他视为个人是一种不值得的神性观念，因为这样就不可能逃脱人类的意外事件；人们应该崇拜的真正事物是神，无论他们能在哪里找到它； “上帝”不过是人表达其神圣感的方式；正如正义、希望、智慧等都是良善的组成部分一样，上帝也是包含所有良善和所有良善力量的表达；人们不会因为不再相信上帝的客观人格而不再爱上帝，就像他们不会因为发现正义并非真正的人格而不再热爱正义一样；不仅如此，他们永远不会真正爱他，直到他们看到他这样。

She said all this in her artless way, and with none of the coherence with which I have here written it; her face kindled, and she felt sure that she had convinced me that I was wrong, and that justice was a living person. Indeed I did wince a little; but I recovered myself immediately, and pointed out to her that we had books whose genuineness was beyond all possibility of doubt, as they were certainly none of them less than 1800 years old; that in these there were the most authentic accounts of men who had been spoken to by the Deity Himself, and of one prophet who had been allowed to see the back parts of God through the hand that was laid over his face.
她以一种天真无邪的方式说出了这一切，而且完全不像我在这里写的那样连贯。她的脸红了，她确信她已经让我相信我错了，正义是活生生的。事实上，我确实有点畏缩了；但我立刻恢复了平静，并向她指出我们拥有的书籍的真实性是不容置疑的，因为它们的历史肯定不低于 1800 年。其中有关于神亲自与人类交谈的最真实的记载，以及一位先知被允许通过放在神的脸上的手看到他的背部的故事。

This was conclusive; and I spoke with such solemnity that she was a little frightened, and only answered that they too had their books, in which their ancestors had seen the gods; on which I saw that further argument was not at all likely to convince her; and fearing that she might tell her mother what I had been saying, and that I might lose the hold upon her affections which I was beginning to feel pretty sure that I was obtaining, I began to let her have her own way, and to convince me; neither till after we were safely married did I show the cloven hoof again.
这是决定性的；我说话的语气如此严肃，让她有点害怕，只是回答说他们也有他们的书，他们的祖先在书里见过众神。我发现进一步的争论根本不可能说服她。我担心她会把我刚才说的话告诉她母亲，而我可能会失去对她的感情的控制，而我开始确信我已经获得了她的感情，我开始让她按照自己的方式行事，并说服她我;直到我们安全结婚后，我才再次露出偶蹄子。

Nevertheless, her remarks have haunted me, and I have since met with many very godly people who have had a great knowledge of divinity, but no sense of the divine: and again, I have seen a radiance upon the face of those who were worshipping the divine either in art or nature—in picture or statue—in field or cloud or sea—in man, woman, or child—which I have never seen kindled by any talking about the nature and attributes of God. Mention but the word divinity, and our sense of the divine is clouded.
尽管如此，她的言论一直困扰着我，从那以后我遇到了许多非常敬虔的人，他们对神性有丰富的知识，但对神性却没有任何感觉：我再次看到那些正在敬拜的人脸上焕发出光彩无论是在艺术中还是在自然中——在图画或雕像中——在田野、云彩或海洋中——在男人、女人或孩子中——我从未见过任何谈论上帝的本质和属性而点燃这种神圣感。只要提到“神性”这个词，我们对神的感觉就会变得模糊。

CHAPTER XVII: YDGRUN AND THE YDGRUNITES
第十七章：YDGRUN 和 YDGRUNITES

In spite of all the to-do they make about their idols, and the temples they build, and the priests and priestesses whom they support, I could never think that their professed religion was more than skin-deep; but they had another which they carried with them into all their actions; and although no one from the outside of things would suspect it to have any existence at all, it was in reality their great guide, the mariner’s compass of their lives; so that there were very few things which they ever either did, or refrained from doing, without reference to its precepts.
尽管他们对自己的偶像、他们建造的寺庙、他们支持的祭司和女祭司做了很多事情，但我从来不认为他们所宣称的宗教不仅仅是肤浅的；他们的宗教信仰只是表面上的。但他们还有另外一个东西，他们将其带入他们所有的行动中。尽管外界根本不会怀疑它的存在，但它实际上是他们伟大的指南，是航海者生活的指南针。因此，他们做或不做的事情很少是不参考其戒律的。

Now I suspected that their professed faith had no great hold upon them—firstly, because I often heard the priests complain of the prevailing indifference, and they would hardly have done so without reason; secondly, because of the show which was made, for there was none of this about the worship of the goddess Ydgrun, in whom they really did believe; thirdly, because though the priests were constantly abusing Ydgrun as being the great enemy of the gods, it was well known that she had no more devoted worshippers in the whole country than these very persons, who were often priests of Ydgrun rather than of their own deities. Neither am I by any means sure that these were not the best of the priests.
现在我怀疑他们所宣称的信仰对他们没有太大的吸引力——首先，因为我经常听到牧师抱怨普遍的冷漠态度，他们几乎不会毫无理由地这样做；其次，因为所进行的表演，因为没有任何关于对伊德格伦女神的崇拜的内容，而他们确实相信伊德格伦女神。第三，因为尽管祭司们不断地辱骂伊德古伦，称其为众神的大敌，但众所周知，在整个国家，她没有比这些人更忠实的崇拜者了，他们往往是伊德古伦的祭司，而不是他们自己的祭司。神灵。我也不能肯定这些人不是最好的牧师。

Ydgrun certainly occupied a very anomalous position; she was held to be both omnipresent and omnipotent, but she was not an elevated conception, and was sometimes both cruel and absurd. Even her most devoted worshippers were a little ashamed of her, and served her more with heart and in deed than with their tongues. Theirs was no lip service; on the contrary, even when worshipping her most devoutly, they would often deny her. Take her all in all, however, she was a beneficent and useful deity, who did not care how much she was denied so long as she was obeyed and feared, and who kept hundreds of thousands in those paths which make life tolerably happy, who would never have been kept there otherwise, and over whom a higher and more spiritual ideal would have had no power.
伊格伦无疑占据了一个非常不寻常的位置；她被认为是无所不在、无所不能的，但她并不是一个崇高的概念，有时甚至是残酷和荒谬的。即使是她最忠实的崇拜者也对她感到有点羞耻，他们更多地用心和行动来侍奉她，而不是用舌头。他们的言论并非口头上的承诺。相反，即使他们最虔诚地崇拜她，他们也常常否认她。然而，总而言之，她是一位仁慈而有用的神灵，只要人们服从和敬畏她，她就不在乎自己被拒绝多少，她让成千上万的人走在那些让生活过上幸福的道路上，她否则，他们永远不会被留在那里，更高、更精神的理想也无法对他们产生影响。

I greatly doubt whether the Erewhonians are yet prepared for any better religion, and though (considering my gradually strengthened conviction that they were the representatives of the lost tribes of Israel) I would have set about converting them at all hazards had I seen the remotest prospect of success, I could hardly contemplate the displacement of Ydgrun as the great central object of their regard without admitting that it would be attended with frightful consequences; in fact were I a mere philosopher, I should say that the gradual raising of the popular conception of Ydgrun would be the greatest spiritual boon which could be conferred upon them, and that nothing could effect this except example. I generally found that those who complained most loudly that Ydgrun was not high enough for them had hardly as yet come up to the Ydgrun standard, and I often met with a class of men whom I called to myself ‘high Ydgrunites’ (the rest being Ydgrunites, and low Ydgrunites), who, in the matter of human conduct and the affairs of life, appeared to me to have got about as far as it is in the right nature of man to go.
我非常怀疑埃瑞洪人是否已经准备好接受任何更好的宗教，尽管如此（考虑到我逐渐坚定的信念，他们是以色列失落部落的代表），如果我看到最遥远的前景，我会不惜一切危险开始改变他们的信仰成功之后，我几乎无法想象伊格伦被取代，成为他们关注的伟大中心目标，而不承认这会带来可怕的后果。事实上，如果我只是一个哲学家，我应该说，伊德格林的普遍观念的逐渐提高将是可以赋予​​他们的最大的精神恩惠，除了榜样之外，没有什么可以影响这一点。我通常发现那些大声抱怨伊德格林对他们来说不够高的人几乎还没有达到伊德格林的标准，而且我经常遇到一类人，我称他们自己为“高伊德格林人”（其余的是在我看来，他们在人类行为和生活事务方面已经做到了人类正确本性所能做到的程度。

They were gentlemen in the full sense of the word; and what has one not said in saying this? They seldom spoke of Ydgrun, or even alluded to her, but would never run counter to her dictates without ample reason for doing so: in such cases they would override her with due self-reliance, and the goddess seldom punished them; for they are brave, and Ydgrun is not. They had most of them a smattering of the hypothetical language, and some few more than this, but only a few. I do not think that this language has had much hand in making them what they are; but rather that the fact of their being generally possessed of its rudiments was one great reason for the reverence paid to the hypothetical language itself.
他们是真正意义上的绅士。这句话还有什么没有说的呢？他们很少谈论伊格伦，甚至很少提及她，但如果没有充分的理由，他们绝不会违背她的命令：在这种情况下，他们会以应有的自力更生凌驾于她之上，女神很少惩罚他们;因为他们很勇敢，而伊格伦则不然。他们中的大多数人都掌握了一些假设性的语言，也有一些比这更多，但也只是少数。我不认为这种语言对它们的形成有多大作用；相反，它们普遍具备基本语言这一事实​​是人们对假想语言本身表示敬意的一个重要原因。

Being inured from youth to exercises and athletics of all sorts, and living fearlessly under the eye of their peers, among whom there exists a high standard of courage, generosity, honour, and every good and manly quality—what wonder that they should have become, so to speak, a law unto themselves; and, while taking an elevated view of the goddess Ydgrun, they should have gradually lost all faith in the recognised deities of the country? These they do not openly disregard, for conformity until absolutely intolerable is a law of Ydgrun, yet they have no real belief in the objective existence of beings which so readily explain themselves as abstractions, and whose personality demands a quasi-materialism which it baffles the imagination to realise. They keep their opinions, however, greatly to themselves, inasmuch as most of their countrymen feel strongly about the gods, and they hold it wrong to give pain, unless for some greater good than seems likely to arise from their plain speaking.
从年轻时起就习惯了各种锻炼和运动，在同龄人的注视下无所畏惧地生活，在同龄人中存在着高标准的勇气、慷慨、荣誉以及一切善良和男子气概的品质——他们应该成为什么样的人，这有什么奇怪的？可以说，这是一条自成一体的法则；而且，在崇高地崇拜伊格伦女神的同时，他们应该逐渐失去对该国公认的神祇的所有信仰吗？他们并没有公开忽视这些，因为除非绝对不能容忍，否则从众是伊德格林的法则，但他们并不真正相信存在者的客观存在，这些存在者很容易将自己解释为抽象，其个性要求一种准唯物主义，这让他们感到困惑。想象来实现。然而，他们非常保守自己的观点，因为他们的大多数同胞对诸神都有强烈的感情，他们认为给予痛苦是错误的，除非是为了一些比他们的直言不讳可能产生的更大的利益。

On the other hand, surely those whose own minds are clear about any given matter (even though it be only that there is little certainty) should go so far towards imparting that clearness to others, as to say openly what they think and why they think it, whenever they can properly do so; for they may be sure that they owe their own clearness almost entirely to the fact that others have done this by them: after all, they may be mistaken, and if so, it is for their own and the general well-being that they should let their error be seen as distinctly as possible, so that it may be more easily refuted. I own, therefore, that on this one point I disapproved of the practice even of the highest Ydgrunites, and objected to it all the more because I knew that I should find my own future task more easy if the high Ydgrunites had already undermined the belief which is supposed to prevail at present.
另一方面，那些自己的头脑对任何特定问题都清楚的人（即使只是没有什么确定性）当然应该将这种清晰性传递给他人，公开说出他们的想法以及他们为什么这么想只要他们能够适当地这样做；因为他们可能确信，他们自己的清晰几乎完全归功于其他人已经通过他们做到了这一点：毕竟，他们可能是错误的，如果是这样，那么为了他们自己和普遍的福祉，他们应该让他们的错误尽可能清晰地被看到，这样就更容易被驳斥。因此，我承认，在这一点上，我什至不赞成最高级别的伊格鲁尼派的做法，并且更加反对它，因为我知道，如果高级伊格鲁尼派已经破坏了这一信仰，我会发现自己未来的任务会更容易。目前应该盛行。

In other respects they were more like the best class of Englishmen than any whom I have seen in other countries. I should have liked to have persuaded half-a-dozen of them to come over to England and go upon the stage, for they had most of them a keen sense of humour and a taste for acting: they would be of great use to us. The example of a real gentleman is, if I may say so without profanity, the best of all gospels; such a man upon the stage becomes a potent humanising influence, an Ideal which all may look upon for a shilling.
在其他方面，他们比我在其他国家见过的任何人都更像是最优秀的英国人。我本想说服他们中的六个人来英国登上舞台，因为他们中的大多数人都有敏锐的幽默感和表演品味：他们对我们很有用。如果我可以不带脏话地这么说的话，真正绅士的榜样是最好的福音书。这样的一个人在舞台上会成为一种强大的人性化影响力，一种所有人都可以用一先令来看待的理想。

I always liked and admired these men, and although I could not help deeply regretting their certain ultimate perdition (for they had no sense of a hereafter, and their only religion was that of self- respect and consideration for other people), I never dared to take so great a liberty with them as to attempt to put them in possession of my own religious convictions, in spite of my knowing that they were the only ones which could make them really good and happy, either here or hereafter. I did try sometimes, being impelled to do so by a strong sense of duty, and by my deep regret that so much that was admirable should be doomed to ages if not eternity of torture; but the words stuck in my throat as soon as I began.
我一直喜欢和钦佩这些人，虽然我不禁对他们的最终灭亡深感遗憾（因为他们没有来世的意识，他们唯一的宗教就是自尊和为他人着想），但我从来不敢我对他们采取如此大的自由，试图让他们拥有我自己的宗教信仰，尽管我知道他们是唯一能让他们真正善良和幸福的信仰，无论是现在还是将来。有时我确实尝试过这样做，是出于强烈的责任感，也出于深深的遗憾，因为如此令人钦佩的事情注定要遭受多年甚至永恒的折磨；但话刚开始，我就卡在了喉咙里。

Whether a professional missionary might have a better chance I know not; such persons must doubtless know more about the science of conversion: for myself, I could only be thankful that I was in the right path, and was obliged to let others take their chance as yet. If the plan fails by which I propose to convert them myself, I would gladly contribute my mite towards the sending two or three trained missionaries, who have been known as successful converters of Jews and Mahometans; but such have seldom much to glory in the flesh, and when I think of the high Ydgrunites, and of the figure which a missionary would probably cut among them, I cannot feel sanguine that much good would be arrived at. Still the attempt is worth making, and the worst danger to the missionaries themselves would be that of being sent to the hospital where Chowbok would have been sent had he come with me into Erewhon.
我不知道职业传教士是否有更好的机会；这些人无疑必须更多地了解皈依的科学：对我自己来说，我只能庆幸自己走在正确的道路上，并且不得不让其他人抓住机会。如果我提议亲自让他们皈依的计划失败了，我会很乐意为派遣两到三名受过训练的传教士出一份力，他们被认为是犹太人和伊斯兰教徒的成功皈依者；但这样的人在肉体上很少有什么值得夸耀的，当我想到那些高尚的伊格鲁尼人，以及传教士可能在他们中间塑造的形象时，我对会取得多大的好处感到乐观。尽管如此，这种尝试还是值得的，对传教士来说，最严重的危险就是被送往医院，如果乔博克和我一起进入埃瑞洪的话，他就会被送往医院。

Taking then their religious opinions as a whole, I must own that the Erewhonians are superstitious, on account of the views which they hold of their professed gods, and their entirely anomalous and inexplicable worship of Ydgrun, a worship at once the most powerful, yet most devoid of formalism, that I ever met with; but in practice things worked better than might have been expected, and the conflicting claims of Ydgrun and the gods were arranged by unwritten compromises (for the most part in Ydgrun’s favour), which in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred were very well understood.
考虑到他们的宗教观点作为一个整体，我必须承认埃雷洪人是迷信的，因为他们对自称的神所持有的观点，以及他们对伊德格林的完全反常和莫名其妙的崇拜，这种崇拜曾经是最强大的，但我所见过的最没有形式主义的；但在实践中，事情比预期的要好，伊古伦和众神的相互冲突的主张是通过不成文的妥协安排的（大部分对伊古伦有利），在一百个案例中，九十九个都很好理解。

I could not conceive why they should not openly acknowledge high Ydgrunism, and discard the objective personality of hope, justice, &c.; but whenever I so much as hinted at this, I found that I was on dangerous ground. They would never have it; returning constantly to the assertion that ages ago the divinities were frequently seen, and that the moment their personality was disbelieved in, men would leave off practising even those ordinary virtues which the common experience of mankind has agreed on as being the greatest secret of happiness. ‘Who ever heard,’ they asked, indignantly, ‘of such things as kindly training, a good example, and an enlightened regard to one’s own welfare, being able to keep men straight?’ In my hurry, forgetting things which I ought to have remembered, I answered that if a person could not be kept straight by these things, there was nothing that could straighten him, and that if he were not ruled by the love and fear of men whom he had seen, neither would he be so by that of the gods whom he had not seen.
我无法理解为什么他们不应该公开承认高度的Ydgrunism，并放弃希望、正义等客观人格；但每当我暗示这一点时，我就发现自己处于危险的境地。他们永远不会拥有它；不断地回到这样的断言，即很久以前，人们经常看到神灵，一旦他们的人格不被相信，人们就会放弃实践那些普通的美德，而人类的共同经验已经认为这些美德是幸福的最大秘密。 “谁听说过，”他们愤怒地问道，“诸如仁慈的训练、良好的榜样、开明地关心自己的福利以及能够使人保持正直这样的事情？”在我的匆忙中，忘记了我应该做的事情我记得，我回答说，如果一个人不能被这些事情保持正直，那么没有什么可以使他正直，如果他不是被他所见过的人的爱和恐惧所统治，他也不会如此是由他未曾见过的众神所赐予的。

At one time indeed I came upon a small but growing sect who believed, after a fashion, in the immortality of the soul and the resurrection from the dead; they taught that those who had been born with feeble and diseased bodies and had passed their lives in ailing, would be tortured eternally hereafter; but that those who had been born strong and healthy and handsome would be rewarded for ever and ever. Of moral qualities or conduct they made no mention.
确实有一次，我遇到了一个规模虽小但正在不断壮大的教派，他们在某种程度上相信灵魂不朽和死里复活。他们教导说，那些出生时身体虚弱多病、在病痛中度过一生的人，将在来世遭受永恒的折磨。但那些生来强壮、健康、英俊的人将永远得到奖赏。他们没有提及道德品质或行为。

Bad as this was, it was a step in advance, inasmuch as they did hold out a future state of some sort, and I was shocked to find that for the most part they met with opposition, on the score that their doctrine was based upon no sort of foundation, also that it was immoral in its tendency, and not to be desired by any reasonable beings.
尽管这很糟糕，但它还是提前了一步，因为他们确实提出了某种未来状态，而我惊讶地发现，他们在很大程度上遭到了反对，因为他们的学说是基于这一点的。没有任何基础，而且它的倾向是不道德的，任何理性的人都不希望看到它。

When I asked how it could be immoral, I was answered, that if firmly held, it would lead people to cheapen this present life, making it appear to be an affair of only secondary importance; that it would thus distract men’s minds from the perfecting of this world’s economy, and was an impatient cutting, so to speak, of the Gordian knot of life’s problems, whereby some people might gain present satisfaction to themselves at the cost of infinite damage to others; that the doctrine tended to encourage the poor in their improvidence, and in a debasing acquiescence in ills which they might well remedy; that the rewards were illusory and the result, after all, of luck, whose empire should be bounded by the grave; that its terrors were enervating and unjust; and that even the most blessed rising would be but the disturbing of a still more blessed slumber.
当我问它怎么可能是不道德的时候，我得到的回答是，如果坚持下去，它会导致人们贬低今生，使它显得只是次要的事情;因此，它会分散人们对完善世界经济的注意力，可以说，它是对生活问题的棘手解决方案的不耐烦的切割，通过这种方式，一些人可能会以对他人造成无限伤害为代价来获得眼前的满足。 ;这种学说倾向于鼓励穷人的短视，以及对他们本可以很好补救的弊病的可耻默许；奖励是虚幻的，归根结底是运气的结果，运气的帝国应该以坟墓为界；它的恐怖令人衰弱且不公正；即使是最幸福的起床也只会扰乱更幸福的睡眠。

To all which I could only say that the thing had been actually known to happen, and that there were several well-authenticated instances of people having died and come to life again—instances which no man in his senses could doubt.
对于这一切，我只能说，人们确实知道这件事发生过，而且有几个经过充分证实的人死而复生的例子——任何有理智的人都不会怀疑这些例子。

‘If this be so,’ said my opponent, ‘we must bear it as best we may.’
“既然如此，”我的对手说，“我们就必须尽力忍受。”

I then translated for him, as well as I could, the noble speech of Hamlet in which he says that it is the fear lest worse evils may befall us after death which alone prevents us from rushing into death’s arms.
然后，我尽我所能为他翻译了哈姆雷特的高贵演讲，他在演讲中说，正是担心死后更糟糕的邪恶降临到我们身上，才阻止我们冲入死亡的怀抱。

‘Nonsense,’ he answered, ‘no man was ever yet stopped from cutting his throat by any such fears as your poet ascribes to him—and your poet probably knew this perfectly well. If a man cuts his throat he is at bay, and thinks of nothing but escape, no matter whither, provided he can shuffle off his present. No. Men are kept at their posts, not by the fear that if they quit them they may quit a frying-pan for a fire, but by the hope that if they hold on, the fire may burn less fiercely. ‘The respect,’ to quote your poet, ‘that makes calamity of so long a life,’ is the consideration that though calamity may live long, the sufferer may live longer still.’
“胡说，”他回答道，“从来没有人因为你们的诗人所描述的那种恐惧而阻止过割断自己的喉咙——你们的诗人可能非常清楚这一点。如果一个人割断了自己的喉咙，他就陷入了困境，除了逃跑之外别无他法，无论去往何处，只要他能摆脱他的礼物。不。人们坚守在自己的岗位上，不是因为担心一旦放弃，他们可能会放弃煎锅，而是希望，如果他们坚持下去，火会烧得不那么猛烈。引用你的诗人的话说，“尊重使灾难得以长久存在”，就是考虑到尽管灾难可能会持续很长时间，但受难者可能会活得更久。

On this, seeing that there was little probability of our coming to an agreement, I let the argument drop, and my opponent presently left me with as much disapprobation as he could show without being overtly rude.
在这一点上，看到我们达成协议的可能性很小，我放弃了争论，而我的对手很快就在不显得粗鲁的情况下对我表示了尽可能多的不满。

CHAPTER XVIII: BIRTH FORMULAE
第十八章：出生公式

I heard what follows not from Arowhena, but from Mr. Nosnibor and some of the gentlemen who occasionally dined at the house: they told me that the Erewhonians believe in pre-existence; and not only this (of which I will write more fully in the next chapter), but they believe that it is of their own free act and deed in a previous state that they come to be born into this world at all. They hold that the unborn are perpetually plaguing and tormenting the married of both sexes, fluttering about them incessantly, and giving them no peace either of mind or body until they have consented to take them under their protection. If this were not so (this at least is what they urge), it would be a monstrous freedom for one man to take with another, to say that he should undergo the chances and changes of this mortal life without any option in the matter. No man would have any right to get married at all, inasmuch as he can never tell what frightful misery his doing so may entail forcibly upon a being who cannot be unhappy as long as he does not exist. They feel this so strongly that they are resolved to shift the blame on to other shoulders; and have fashioned a long mythology as to the world in which the unborn people live, and what they do, and the arts and machinations to which they have recourse in order to get themselves into our own world. But of this more anon: what I would relate here is their manner of dealing with those who do come.
我不是从阿罗维纳那里听到的，而是从诺斯尼博尔先生和一些偶尔在家里吃饭的绅士那里听到的：他们告诉我，埃雷洪人相信前世；他们相信前世；他们相信前世。不仅如此（我将在下一章更详细地写到），他们还相信，他们降生到这个世界上完全是由于他们自己在先前状态下的自由行为和行为。他们认为，未出生的孩子永远困扰和折磨已婚的男女，不断地在他们周围扑腾，使他们的身心得不到安宁，直到他们同意将他们置于他们的保护之下。如果情况并非如此（至少他们是这么要求的），那么一个人与另一个人说他应该在没有任何选择的情况下经历今生的机会和变化，这将是一种巨大的自由。没有人有权利结婚，因为他永远无法知道他的结婚可能会给一个只要他不存在就不会不快乐的人带来多么可怕的痛苦。他们如此强烈地感受到这一点，以至于他们决心将责任推到别人的肩上；并塑造了一个漫长的神话，涉及未出生的人们所生活的世界，他们所做的事情，以及他们为了进入我们自己的世界而求助的艺术和阴谋。但稍后再说：我在这里要讲的是他们对待那些来的人的方式。

It is a distinguishing peculiarity of the Erewhonians that when they profess themselves to be quite certain about any matter, and avow it as a base on which they are to build a system of practice, they seldom quite believe in it. If they smell a rat about the precincts of a cherished institution, they will always stop their noses to it if they can.
埃雷洪人的一个显着特点是，当他们声称自己对任何事情非常确定，并承认它是他们建立实践体系的基础时，他们很少完全相信它。如果他们在某个珍贵机构的范围内闻到了老鼠的味道，他们总是会尽可能地阻止它。

This is what most of them did in this matter of the unborn, for I cannot (and never could) think that they seriously believed in their mythology concerning pre-existence: they did and they did not; they did not know themselves what they believed; all they did know was that it was a disease not to believe as they did. The only thing of which they were quite sure was that it was the pestering of the unborn which caused them to be brought into this world, and that they would not have been here if they would have only let peaceable people alone.
这就是他们中的大多数人在未出生的问题上所做的，因为我不能（也永远不能）认为他们认真地相信他们关于前世的神话：他们相信了，他们没有；他们相信了，他们没有；他们相信了，也没有相信过。他们不知道自己相信什么；他们只知道，不相信自己的信仰是一种病。他们唯一确信的是，正是未出生的人的纠缠才把他们带到这个世界上，如果他们只放过和平的人，他们就不会来到这里。

It would be hard to disprove this position, and they might have a good case if they would only leave it as it stands. But this they will not do; they must have assurance doubly sure; they must have the written word of the child itself as soon as it is born, giving the parents indemnity from all responsibility on the score of its birth, and asserting its own pre-existence. They have therefore devised something which they call a birth formula—a document which varies in words according to the caution of parents, but is much the same practically in all cases; for it has been the business of the Erewhonian lawyers during many ages to exercise their skill in perfecting it and providing for every contingency.
很难反驳这一立场，如果他们只保持现状，他们可能会有一个很好的理由。但他们不会这样做；他们必须有双重保证；他们必须在孩子出生后立即获得孩子本人的书面证明，免除父母因孩子出生而承担的所有责任，并主张孩子本身的存在。因此，他们设计了一种被他们称为出生公式的东西——一份根据父母的谨慎而在文字上有所不同的文件，但实际上在所有情况下都是相同的。因为多年来，埃鲁洪尼亚律师的职责就是锻炼他们的技能，完善它并为每一种意外情况做好准备。

These formulae are printed on common paper at a moderate cost for the poor; but the rich have them written on parchment and handsomely bound, so that the getting up of a person’s birth formula is a test of his social position. They commence by setting forth, That whereas A. B. was a member of the kingdom of the unborn, where he was well provided for in every way, and had no cause of discontent, &c., &c., he did of his own wanton depravity and restlessness conceive a desire to enter into this present world; that thereon having taken the necessary steps as set forth in laws of the unborn kingdom, he did with malice aforethought set himself to plague and pester two unfortunate people who had never wronged him, and who were quite contented and happy until he conceived this base design against their peace; for which wrong he now humbly entreats their pardon.
这些公式印在普通纸上，价格适中，适合穷人使用；但富人则把它们写在羊皮纸上，并装订得精美，因此一个人的出生公式的起落是对他社会地位的考验。他们首先指出，虽然 A.B. 是未出生王国的一员，在那里他在各方面都得到了充分的供应，并且没有任何不满的理由，等等，但他却因自己的肆意堕落和焦躁不安，渴望进入现世；于是，在按照未出生王国的法律规定采取了必要的步骤之后，他怀着恶意，预先让自己去折磨和纠缠两个不幸的人，他们从未冤枉过他，而且他们非常满足和快乐，直到他构思出这个卑鄙的设计。破坏他们的和平；对于这一错误，他现在谦卑地恳求他们的原谅。

He acknowledges that he is responsible for all physical blemishes and deficiencies which may render him answerable to the laws of his country; that his parents have nothing whatever to do with any of these things; and that they have a right to kill him at once if they be so minded, though he entreats them to show their marvellous goodness and clemency by sparing his life. If they will do this, he promises to be their most obedient and abject creature during his earlier years, and indeed all his life, unless they should see fit in their abundant generosity to remit some portion of his service hereafter. And so the formula continues, going sometimes into very minute details, according to the fancies of family lawyers, who will not make it any shorter than they can help.
他承认他对所有身体缺陷和缺陷负有责任，这些缺陷和缺陷可能使他对其国家的法律负责；他的父母与这些事情没有任何关系；尽管他恳求他们饶恕他的生命，以显示他们非凡的善良和仁慈，但如果他们有这样的想法，他们就有权立即杀死他。如果他们愿意这样做，他承诺在他的早年乃至一生中成为他们最顺从和最卑微的生物，除非他们认为以后可以慷慨地免除他的部分服务。就这样，这个公式继续下去，有时会根据家庭律师的想法深入到非常微小的细节，他们不会把它说得比他们力所能及的更短。

The deed being thus prepared, on the third or fourth day after the birth of the child, or as they call it, the ‘final importunity,’ the friends gather together, and there is a feast held, where they are all very melancholy—as a general rule, I believe, quite truly so—and make presents to the father and mother of the child in order to console them for the injury which has just been done them by the unborn.
事情就这样准备好了，在孩子出生后的第三天或第四天，或者按他们所说的“最后的催促”，朋友们聚集在一起，举行了一场宴会，他们都非常忧郁——我相信，一般来说，确实如此——向孩子的父母赠送礼物，以安慰他们刚刚受到未出生婴儿的伤害。

By-and-by the child himself is brought down by his nurse, and the company begin to rail upon him, upbraiding him for his impertinence, and asking him what amends he proposes to make for the wrong that he has committed, and how he can look for care and nourishment from those who have perhaps already been injured by the unborn on some ten or twelve occasions; for they say of people with large families, that they have suffered terrible injuries from the unborn; till at last, when this has been carried far enough, some one suggests the formula, which is brought out and solemnly read to the child by the family straightener. This gentleman is always invited on these occasions, for the very fact of intrusion into a peaceful family shows a depravity on the part of the child which requires his professional services.
渐渐地，孩子自己被保姆放倒了，大家开始责备他，责备他的无礼，并询问他打算对自己所犯下的错误做出怎样的弥补，以及如何弥补。可以向那些可能已经被胎儿伤害过十到十二次的人寻求照顾和滋养；因为他们说，拥有大家庭的人，他们遭受了未出生的可怕伤害。直到最后，当这已经进行得足够深入时，有人提出了这个公式，然后由家庭矫治师拿出来并郑重地读给孩子听。在这些场合，这位绅士总是受到邀请，因为闯入一个平静的家庭这一事实本身就表明了孩子的堕落，需要他的专业服务。

On being teased by the reading and tweaked by the nurse, the child will commonly begin to cry, which is reckoned a good sign, as showing a consciousness of guilt. He is thereon asked, Does he assent to the formula? on which, as he still continues crying and can obviously make no answer, some one of the friends comes forward and undertakes to sign the document on his behalf, feeling sure (so he says) that the child would do it if he only knew how, and that he will release the present signer from his engagement on arriving at maturity. The friend then inscribes the signature of the child at the foot of the parchment, which is held to bind the child as much as though he had signed it himself.
在被读物逗弄和被护士扭捏时，孩子通常会开始哭泣，这被认为是一个好兆头，因为表现出内疚感。于是有人问他，他同意这个公式吗？当他仍在继续哭泣并且显然无法回答时，其中一位朋友站出来并承诺代表他签署文件，他确信（他是这样说的）如果孩子知道如何做，他就会这样做。 ，并且他将在成熟时解除当前签名者的订婚。然后，朋友将孩子的签名写在羊皮纸的底部，拿着羊皮纸来约束孩子，就像他自己签名一样。

Even this, however, does not fully content them, for they feel a little uneasy until they have got the child’s own signature after all. So when he is about fourteen, these good people partly bribe him by promises of greater liberty and good things, and partly intimidate him through their great power of making themselves actively unpleasant to him, so that though there is a show of freedom made, there is really none; they also use the offices of the teachers in the Colleges of Unreason, till at last, in one way or another, they take very good care that he shall sign the paper by which he professes to have been a free agent in coming into the world, and to take all the responsibility of having done so on to his own shoulders. And yet, though this document is obviously the most important which any one can sign in his whole life, they will have him do so at an age when neither they nor the law will for many a year allow any one else to bind him to the smallest obligation, no matter how righteously he may owe it, because they hold him too young to know what he is about, and do not consider it fair that he should commit himself to anything that may prejudice him in after years.
然而，即便如此，他们还是不能完全满意，因为在最终得到孩子自己的签名之前，他们还是感到有些不安。因此，当他大约十四岁的时候，这些好人部分地通过许诺更大的自由和美好事物来贿赂他，部分地通过他们的强大力量来恐吓他，使自己主动地让他不愉快，因此，尽管他们表现得自由，但实际上确实没有；他们还使用非理性学院教师的办公室，直到最后，以这样或那样的方式，他们非常小心地让他签署一份文件，通过该文件他声称自己是来到这个世界的自由人。 ，并把这样做的所有责任都扛在自己的肩上。然而，尽管这份文件显然是任何人一生中都可以签署的最重要的文件，但他们会让他在这样的年龄签署：他们和法律在很多年里都不会允许任何其他人将他约束在这份文件上。最小的义务，无论他负有多么正义，因为他们认为他太年轻，不知道自己在做什么，并且认为他应该承担任何可能在以后的岁月里损害他的事情，这是不公平的。

I own that all this seemed rather hard, and not of a piece with the many admirable institutions existing among them. I once ventured to say a part of what I thought about it to one of the Professors of Unreason. I did it very tenderly, but his justification of the system was quite out of my comprehension. I remember asking him whether he did not think it would do harm to a lad’s principles, by weakening his sense of the sanctity of his word and of truth generally, that he should be led into entering upon a solemn declaration as to the truth of things about which all that he can certainly know is that he knows nothing—whether, in fact, the teachers who so led him, or who taught anything as a certainty of which they were themselves uncertain, were not earning their living by impairing the truth-sense of their pupils (a delicate organisation mostly), and by vitiating one of their most sacred instincts.
我承认这一切看起来相当困难，而且与其中存在的许多令人钦佩的机构格格不入。我曾经大胆地向一位非理性教授说出了我对此的部分想法。我做得非常温柔，但他对这个系统的合理性完全超出了我的理解范围。我记得我曾问过他，如果他被引导对事物的真实性做出庄严的声明，是否会削弱他对自己的话语和真理的神圣感，从而损害他的原则？对此，他所能肯定知道的就是他一无所知——事实上，那些如此引导他的老师，或者那些将他们自己不确定的东西作为确定性教授的老师，是否不是通过损害真理来谋生的——学生的意识（主要是一个微妙的组织），并损害了他们最神圣的本能之一。

The Professor, who was a delightful person, seemed greatly surprised at the view which I took, but it had no influence with him whatsoever. No one, he answered, expected that the boy either would or could know all that he said he knew; but the world was full of compromises; and there was hardly any affirmation which would bear being interpreted literally. Human language was too gross a vehicle of thought—thought being incapable of absolute translation. He added, that as there can be no translation from one language into another which shall not scant the meaning somewhat, or enlarge upon it, so there is no language which can render thought without a jarring and a harshness somewhere—and so forth; all of which seemed to come to this in the end, that it was the custom of the country, and that the Erewhonians were a conservative people; that the boy would have to begin compromising sooner or later, and this was part of his education in the art. It was perhaps to be regretted that compromise should be as necessary as it was; still it was necessary, and the sooner the boy got to understand it the better for himself. But they never tell this to the boy.
教授是个和蔼可亲的人，他对我的观点似乎感到非常惊讶，但这对他没有任何影响。他回答说，没有人期望这个男孩会或能够知道他所说的一切。但这个世界充满了妥协；几乎没有任何断言可以按字面解释。人类语言作为思想的载体太粗糙了——思想无法绝对翻译。他补充说，正如从一种语言翻译成另一种语言时，如果不忽略或扩大其含义，就不可能有任何语言能够使思想在某处不产生不和谐和刺耳的感觉，等等。所有这一切似乎最终都得出这样的结果：这是这个国家的习俗，而埃雷洪尼亚人是一个保守的民族。这个男孩迟早要开始妥协，这是他接受的艺术教育的一部分。也许令人遗憾的是，妥协是必要的。但这仍然是必要的，男孩越早理解这一点对自己越好。但他们从未将此事告诉男孩。

From the book of their mythology about the unborn I made the extracts which will form the following chapter.
我从他们关于胎儿的神话书中摘录了一些内容，这些内容将构成下一章。

CHAPTER XIX: THE WORLD OF THE UNBORN
第十九章：未出生的世界

The Erewhonians say that we are drawn through life backwards; or again, that we go onwards into the future as into a dark corridor. Time walks beside us and flings back shutters as we advance; but the light thus given often dazzles us, and deepens the darkness which is in front. We can see but little at a time, and heed that little far less than our apprehension of what we shall see next; ever peering curiously through the glare of the present into the gloom of the future, we presage the leading lines of that which is before us, by faintly reflected lights from dull mirrors that are behind, and stumble on as we may till the trap-door opens beneath us and we are gone.
埃雷洪人说，我们的生活是在倒退中度过的。又或者，我们继续走向未来，就像走进一条黑暗的走廊一样。时间在我们身边行走，随着我们前进，时间将百叶窗拉开；但这样发出的光常常使我们眼花缭乱，并加深了前面的黑暗。我们一次只能看到很少的东西，而且我们对这一点的关注远远少于我们对接下来将看到的东西的担忧。我们总是好奇地透过现在的眩光窥视未来的阴暗，通过背后暗淡的镜子微弱反射的光线，我们预示着前方的引导线，然后跌跌撞撞地走下去，直到活板门。在我们脚下打开，我们就消失了。

They say at other times that the future and the past are as a panorama upon two rollers; that which is on the roller of the future unwraps itself on to the roller of the past; we cannot hasten it, and we may not stay it; we must see all that is unfolded to us whether it be good or ill; and what we have seen once we may see again no more. It is ever unwinding and being wound; we catch it in transition for a moment, and call it present; our flustered senses gather what impression they can, and we guess at what is coming by the tenor of that which we have seen. The same hand has painted the whole picture, and the incidents vary little—rivers, woods, plains, mountains, towns and peoples, love, sorrow, and death: yet the interest never flags, and we look hopefully for some good fortune, or fearfully lest our own faces be shown us as figuring in something terrible. When the scene is past we think we know it, though there is so much to see, and so little time to see it, that our conceit of knowledge as regards the past is for the most part poorly founded; neither do we care about it greatly, save in so far as it may affect the future, wherein our interest mainly lies.
他们有时说，未来和过去就像两个滚筒上的全景；未来的滚轴上的东西将自己展开到过去的滚轴上；我们不能加速它，也不能阻止它；我们必须看到展现在我们面前的一切，无论是好还是坏；我们曾经见过的东西可能再也见不到了。它总是在松开和上紧；我们暂时抓住了它的转变，并称之为现在；我们慌乱的感官尽可能地收集印象，并根据我们所看到的内容猜测即将发生的事情。同一只手描绘了整个画面，事件变化不大——河流、树林、平原、山脉、城镇和人民、爱情、悲伤和死亡：但兴趣从未减弱，我们满怀希望地寻找一些好运，或者害怕我们自己的脸被认为正在策划一些可怕的事情。当场景过去时，我们认为我们知道它，尽管有太多可看的东西，而看它的时间却很少，以至于我们对过去的知识的自负在很大程度上是没有根据的；我们也不太关心它，除非它可能影响我们的主要利益所在的未来。

The Erewhonians say it was by chance only that the earth and stars and all the heavenly worlds began to roll from east to west, and not from west to east, and in like manner they say it is by chance that man is drawn through life with his face to the past instead of to the future. For the future is there as much as the past, only that we may not see it. Is it not in the loins of the past, and must not the past alter before the future can do so?
埃雷洪人说，地球、星星和所有天堂世界开始从东向西滚动，而不是从西向东滚动，只是偶然的；同样，他们说，人类在生命中被吸引，也是出于偶然。他面对过去而不是未来。因为未来和过去一样都存在，只是我们可能看不到它。难道它不是过去的产物吗？在未来改变之前，过去一定不能改变吗？

Sometimes, again, they say that there was a race of men tried upon the earth once, who knew the future better than the past, but that they died in a twelvemonth from the misery which their knowledge caused them; and if any were to be born too prescient now, he would be culled out by natural selection, before he had time to transmit so peace-destroying a faculty to his descendants.
有时，他们又说，有一个人类种族曾经在地球上受过考验，他们比过去更了解未来，但他们在十二个月内就死于他们的知识给他们带来的痛苦；如果现在有一个人出生得太有先见之明，那么在他有时间将这种破坏和平的能力传给他的后代之前，他就会被自然选择淘汰掉。

Strange fate for man! He must perish if he get that, which he must perish if he strive not after. If he strive not after it he is no better than the brutes, if he get it he is more miserable than the devils.
人类的奇怪命运！如果他得到了这个，他就一定会灭亡；如果他不努力去追求，他就一定会灭亡。如果他不去追求它，那么他并不比畜生更好；如果他得到了它，他比魔鬼还悲惨。

Having waded through many chapters like the above, I came at last to the unborn themselves, and found that they were held to be souls pure and simple, having no actual bodies, but living in a sort of gaseous yet more or less anthropomorphic existence, like that of a ghost; they have thus neither flesh nor blood nor warmth. Nevertheless they are supposed to have local habitations and cities wherein they dwell, though these are as unsubstantial as their inhabitants; they are even thought to eat and drink some thin ambrosial sustenance, and generally to be capable of doing whatever mankind can do, only after a visionary ghostly fashion as in a dream. On the other hand, as long as they remain where they are they never die—the only form of death in the unborn world being the leaving it for our own. They are believed to be extremely numerous, far more so than mankind. They arrive from unknown planets, full grown, in large batches at a time; but they can only leave the unborn world by taking the steps necessary for their arrival here—which is, in fact, by suicide.
费力地读完上述许多章节后，我终于来到了未出生的人本身，发现他们被认为是纯粹而简单的灵魂，没有实际的身体，而是生活在一种气态但或多或少拟人化的存在中，像幽灵一样；因此，他们既没有血肉，也没有温度。然而，他们应该有当地的住所和居住的城市，尽管这些和他们的居民一样不真实。他们甚至被认为可以吃喝一些稀薄的食物，并且通常能够做人类能做的任何事情，只有在像梦一样的幻象幽灵般的时尚之后。另一方面，只要它们留在原地，它们就永远不会死亡——未出生的世界中唯一的死亡形式就是把它留给我们自己的世界。据信它们的数量极其庞大，远远超过人类。它们来自未知的星球，已经完全成熟，一次大批地到达；但他们只能通过采取到达这里所需的步骤来离开未出生的世界——事实上，就是自杀。

They ought to be an exceedingly happy people, for they have no extremes of good or ill fortune; never marrying, but living in a state much like that fabled by the poets as the primitive condition of mankind. In spite of this, however, they are incessantly complaining; they know that we in this world have bodies, and indeed they know everything else about us, for they move among us whithersoever they will, and can read our thoughts, as well as survey our actions at pleasure. One would think that this should be enough for them; and most of them are indeed alive to the desperate risk which they will run by indulging themselves in that body with ‘sensible warm motion’ which they so much desire; nevertheless, there are some to whom the ennui of a disembodied existence is so intolerable that they will venture anything for a change; so they resolve to quit. The conditions which they must accept are so uncertain, that none but the most foolish of the unborn will consent to them; and it is from these, and these only, that our own ranks are recruited.
他们应该是一个非常幸福的民族，因为他们没有极端的好运或厄运。从未结婚，但生活在一种很像诗人所寓言的人类原始状态的状态。尽管如此，他们还是不断地抱怨；他们知道我们在这个世界上有身体，事实上他们知道关于我们的一切，因为他们在我们中间移动，无论他们想去哪里，可以读懂我们的思想，也可以随意观察我们的行为。人们会认为这对他们来说应该足够了；但事实上，这对他们来说已经足够了。他们中的大多数人确实意识到，如果他们将自己沉浸在他们如此渴望的“明显的温暖运动”的身体中，他们将冒着绝望的风险。然而，有些人却无法忍受脱离肉体的存在所带来的厌倦，以至于为了改变他们愿意冒险做任何事。所以他们决定戒烟。他们必须接受的条件是如此不确定，除了最愚蠢的胎儿之外，没有人会同意他们。我们自己的队伍正是从这些人中招募的。

When they have finally made up their minds to leave, they must go before the magistrate of the nearest town, and sign an affidavit of their desire to quit their then existence. On their having done this, the magistrate reads them the conditions which they must accept, and which are so long that I can only extract some of the principal points, which are mainly the following:-
当他们最终决定离开时，他们必须去最近城镇的地方法官面前，并签署一份宣誓书，表明他们希望退出当时的存在。他们这样做后，地方法官向他们宣读了他们必须接受的条件，这些条件太长了，我只能摘录一些要点，主要是以下几点：-

First, they must take a potion which will destroy their memory and sense of identity; they must go into the world helpless, and without a will of their own; they must draw lots for their dispositions before they go, and take them, such as they are, for better or worse—neither are they to be allowed any choice in the matter of the body which they so much desire; they are simply allotted by chance, and without appeal, to two people whom it is their business to find and pester until they adopt them. Who these are to be, whether rich or poor, kind or unkind, healthy or diseased, there is no knowing; they have, in fact, to entrust themselves for many years to the care of those for whose good constitution and good sense they have no sort of guarantee.
首先，他们必须服用一种会摧毁他们的记忆和身份感的药剂；他们必须无助地、没有自己意愿地来到这个世界上。他们在出发前必须抽签决定自己的性情，无论好坏，都按其本来面目接受——在他们如此渴望的身体问题上，他们也不允许有任何选择；他们只是偶然地、毫无吸引力地分配给了两个人，他们的职责就是找到并纠缠他们，直到他们收养他们为止。这些人是谁，无论富有还是贫穷，善良还是不善良，健康还是患病，我们都不得而知；事实上，他们多年来必须将自己托付给那些他们无法保证其良好体质和良好判断力的人。

It is curious to read the lectures which the wiser heads give to those who are meditating a change. They talk with them as we talk with a spendthrift, and with about as much success.
阅读明智的头脑为那些正在思考改变的人提供的讲座是很有趣的。他们与他们交谈就像我们与挥霍无度的人交谈一样，并且取得了同样的成功。

‘To be born,’ they say, ‘is a felony—it is a capital crime, for which sentence may be executed at any moment after the commission of the offence. You may perhaps happen to live for some seventy or eighty years, but what is that, compared with the eternity you now enjoy? And even though the sentence were commuted, and you were allowed to live on for ever, you would in time become so terribly weary of life that execution would be the greatest mercy to you.
他们说，“出生是重罪——是死罪，犯罪后随时可以执行判决。”也许你碰巧活了七十年或八十岁，但与你现在享受的永恒相比，那又算什么呢？即使减刑，并且允许你永远活着，但随着时间的推移，你也会对生活感到非常厌倦，以至于处决对你来说就是最大的仁慈。

‘Consider the infinite risk; to be born of wicked parents and trained in vice! to be born of silly parents, and trained to unrealities! of parents who regard you as a sort of chattel or property, belonging more to them than to yourself! Again, you may draw utterly unsympathetic parents, who will never be able to understand you, and who will do their best to thwart you (as a hen when she has hatched a duckling), and then call you ungrateful because you do not love them; or, again, you may draw parents who look upon you as a thing to be cowed while it is still young, lest it should give them trouble hereafter by having wishes and feelings of its own.
‘考虑无限的风险；出生于邪恶的父母，并受过恶行的训练！出生于愚蠢的父母，并被训练成不切实际的人！父母把你视为一种动产或财产，更多地属于他们而不是你自己！再一次，你可能会画出完全没有同情心的父母，他们永远无法理解你，他们会尽最大努力阻止你（就像母鸡孵出小鸭一样），然后说你忘恩负义，因为你不爱他们;或者，你可能会画出父母，他们在你还年轻的时候就将你视为令人畏惧的东西，以免你的愿望和感情在以后给他们带来麻烦。

‘In later life, when you have been finally allowed to pass muster as a full member of the world, you will yourself become liable to the pesterings of the unborn—and a very happy life you may be led in consequence! For we solicit so strongly that a few only—nor these the best—can refuse us; and yet not to refuse is much the same as going into partnership with half-a-dozen different people about whom one can know absolutely nothing beforehand—not even whether one is going into partnership with men or women, nor with how many of either. Delude not yourself with thinking that you will be wiser than your parents. You may be an age in advance of those whom you have pestered, but unless you are one of the great ones you will still be an age behind those who will in their turn pester you.
“在以后的生活中，当你最终被允许作为世界上的正式成员通过考验时，你自己就会容易受到未出生的人的纠缠——结果你可能会过上非常幸福的生活！因为我们如此强烈地恳求，以至于只有少数人——而且不是最好的——可以拒绝我们；然而，不拒绝就等于与六个不同的人建立伙伴关系，而你事先对这些人一无所知——甚至不知道一个人是与男人还是女人建立伙伴关系，也不知道与其中的多少人建立伙伴关系。不要欺骗自己，以为自己会比父母更聪明。你可能比那些被你纠缠的人早一个时代，但除非你是伟大的人之一，否则你仍然比那些反过来纠缠你的人落后一个时代。

‘Imagine what it must be to have an unborn quartered upon you, who is of an entirely different temperament and disposition to your own; nay, half-a-dozen such, who will not love you though you have stinted yourself in a thousand ways to provide for their comfort and well-being,—who will forget all your self-sacrifice, and of whom you may never be sure that they are not bearing a grudge against you for errors of judgement into which you may have fallen, though you had hoped that such had been long since atoned for. Ingratitude such as this is not uncommon, yet fancy what it must be to bear! It is hard upon the duckling to have been hatched by a hen, but is it not also hard upon the hen to have hatched the duckling?
“想象一下，如果有一个未出生的孩子对着你，他的性情和性情与你完全不同，那会是什么感觉？不仅如此，还有六六个这样的人，他们不会爱你，尽管你已经千方百计地为他们提供舒适和幸福，他们会忘记你所有的自我牺牲，而你可能永远不会成为他们中的一员。确保他们不会因为你可能犯下的判断错误而对你怀恨在心，尽管你曾希望这种错误早已得到弥补。像这样的忘恩负义并不少见，但想象一下必须忍受什么！母鸡孵小鸭难，母鸡孵小鸭不也难吗？

‘Consider it again, we pray you, not for our sake but for your own. Your initial character you must draw by lot; but whatever it is, it can only come to a tolerably successful development after long training; remember that over that training you will have no control. It is possible, and even probable, that whatever you may get in after life which is of real pleasure and service to you, will have to be won in spite of, rather than by the help of, those whom you are now about to pester, and that you will only win your freedom after years of a painful struggle in which it will be hard to say whether you have suffered most injury, or inflicted it.
“我们请求您再考虑一下，不是为了我们，而是为了您自己。”你必须通过抽签抽出你的初始角色；但无论是什么，都需要经过长期的训练才能获得比较成功的发展。请记住，在训练过程中您将无法控制。有可能，甚至很可能，无论你在来世获得真正的快乐和对你有用的东西，都必须不顾那些你现在要纠缠的人，而不是通过他们的帮助来赢得。 ，只有经过多年的痛苦斗争，你才能赢得自由，在这场斗争中，很难说你是否遭受了最大的伤害，或者造成了伤害。

‘Remember also, that if you go into the world you will have free will; that you will be obliged to have it; that there is no escaping it; that you will be fettered to it during your whole life, and must on every occasion do that which on the whole seems best to you at any given time, no matter whether you are right or wrong in choosing it. Your mind will be a balance for considerations, and your action will go with the heavier scale. How it shall fall will depend upon the kind of scales which you may have drawn at birth, the bias which they will have obtained by use, and the weight of the immediate considerations. If the scales were good to start with, and if they have not been outrageously tampered with in childhood, and if the combinations into which you enter are average ones, you may come off well; but there are too many ‘ifs’ in this, and with the failure of any one of them your misery is assured. Reflect on this, and remember that should the ill come upon you, you will have yourself to thank, for it is your own choice to be born, and there is no compulsion in the matter.
‘还要记住，如果你进入这个世界，你将拥有自由意志；您将有义务拥有它；无法逃避它；你一生都会被它束缚，并且在任何时候都必须做对你来说总体上最好的事情，无论你的选择是对还是错。你的头脑将是一个平衡的考虑，你的行动将伴随着更重的尺度。它将如何下降取决于你在出生时所使用的天平的种类、通过使用它们将获得的偏见以及直接考虑因素的权重。如果天平一开始就很好，如果它们在童年时期没有被无耻地篡改，如果你输入的组合是普通的，你可能会得到很好的结果；但这其中有太多的“如果”，只要其中任何一个失败，你的痛苦就注定了。想一想，如果不幸降临到你身上，你要感谢你自己，因为出生是你自己的选择，没有什么强迫的。

‘Not that we deny the existence of pleasures among mankind; there is a certain show of sundry phases of contentment which may even amount to very considerable happiness; but mark how they are distributed over a man’s life, belonging, all the keenest of them, to the fore part, and few indeed to the after. Can there be any pleasure worth purchasing with the miseries of a decrepit age? If you are good, strong, and handsome, you have a fine fortune indeed at twenty, but how much of it will be left at sixty? For you must live on your capital; there is no investing your powers so that you may get a small annuity of life for ever: you must eat up your principal bit by bit, and be tortured by seeing it grow continually smaller and smaller, even though you happen to escape being rudely robbed of it by crime or casualty.
“并不是说我们否认人类快乐的存在；而是说我们否认快乐的存在。”存在一定程度的满足感，甚至可能构成非常可观的幸福；但请注意它们在一个人的一生中是如何分布的，所有最敏锐的人都属于前面的部分，很少有属于后面的部分。在衰老的岁月中，还有什么值得购买的快乐吗？如果你善良、强壮、英俊，二十岁确实是一笔好财富，但六十岁还能剩下多少呢？因为你必须靠你的资本生活；投资你的权力是不可能永远得到一小笔生命年金的：你必须一点一点地吃掉你的本金，并看着它越来越小而受到折磨，即使你碰巧逃脱了被粗暴地抢劫。犯罪或伤亡。

‘Remember, too, that there never yet was a man of forty who would not come back into the world of the unborn if he could do so with decency and honour. Being in the world he will as a general rule stay till he is forced to go; but do you think that he would consent to be born again, and re-live his life, if he had the offer of doing so? Do not think it. If he could so alter the past as that he should never have come into being at all, do you not think that he would do it very gladly?
“还要记住，如果四十岁的男人能够体面而有尊严地回到未出生的世界，那么从来没有一个人不愿意回到未出生的世界。在这个世界上，他通常会留下来，直到他被迫离开为止。但你认为如果他有机会的话，他会同意重生并重新过自己的生活吗？别这么想。如果他能够改变过去，使他根本不应该出现，你不认为他会很乐意这样做吗？

‘What was it that one of their own poets meant, if it was not this, when he cried out upon the day in which he was born, and the night in which it was said there is a man child conceived? ‘For now,’ he says, ‘I should have lain still and been quiet, I should have slept; then had I been at rest with kings and counsellors of the earth, which built desolate places for themselves; or with princes that had gold, who filled their houses with silver; or as an hidden untimely birth, I had not been; as infants which never saw light. There the wicked cease from troubling, and the weary are at rest.’ Be very sure that the guilt of being born carries this punishment at times to all men; but how can they ask for pity, or complain of any mischief that may befall them, having entered open-eyed into the snare?
‘他们自己的一位诗人在他出生的那天和据说怀上一个男孩的那天晚上大声喊叫时，如果不是这个，那是什么意思呢？ “现在，”他说，“我应该安静地躺着，我应该睡觉；那时我就​​可以与世上的君王和谋士一起安息了，他们为自己建造了荒凉的地方。或有金子的王子，他们的房屋里装满了银子；或者说，作为一个隐藏的不合时宜的出生，我并没有；就像从未见过光明的婴儿一样。在那里，恶人不再烦恼，疲倦的人得到安息。”请务必确信，出生时的罪责有时会给所有人带来这种惩罚；但他们既然睁着眼睛落入网罗，又怎能祈求怜悯，或抱怨可能降临在他们身上的任何恶作剧呢？

‘One word more and we have done. If any faint remembrance, as of a dream, flit in some puzzled moment across your brain, and you shall feel that the potion which is to be given you shall not have done its work, and the memory of this existence which you are leaving endeavours vainly to return; we say in such a moment, when you clutch at the dream but it eludes your grasp, and you watch it, as Orpheus watched Eurydice, gliding back again into the twilight kingdom, fly—fly—if you can remember the advice—to the haven of your present and immediate duty, taking shelter incessantly in the work which you have in hand. This much you may perhaps recall; and this, if you will imprint it deeply upon your every faculty, will be most likely to bring you safely and honourably home through the trials that are before you.’ {3}
‘再多说一句话，我们就完成了。如果有任何微弱的记忆，如梦境，在某个困惑的时刻掠过你的大脑，你就会觉得要给你的药水还没有发挥作用，而你正在离开的这个存在的记忆也会努力工作。徒然返回；我们说，在这样的时刻，当你紧紧抓住梦想，但它却逃脱了你的掌控，你看着它，就像俄耳甫斯看着欧律狄刻，再次滑回暮色王国，飞——飞——如果你还记得建议的话——到你当前和直接职责的避风港，不断地在你手头的工作中得到庇护。您可能还记得这么多；如果您将这一点深深地烙印在您的每一个能力中，那么您最有可能通过面前的考验安全而光荣地回家。”{3}

This is the fashion in which they reason with those who would be for leaving them, but it is seldom that they do much good, for none but the unquiet and unreasonable ever think of being born, and those who are foolish enough to think of it are generally foolish enough to do it. Finding, therefore, that they can do no more, the friends follow weeping to the courthouse of the chief magistrate, where the one who wishes to be born declares solemnly and openly that he accepts the conditions attached to his decision. On this he is presented with a potion, which immediately destroys his memory and sense of identity, and dissipates the thin gaseous tenement which he has inhabited: he becomes a bare vital principle, not to be perceived by human senses, nor to be by any chemical test appreciated. He has but one instinct, which is that he is to go to such and such a place, where he will find two persons whom he is to importune till they consent to undertake him; but whether he is to find these persons among the race of Chowbok or the Erewhonians themselves is not for him to choose.
这是他们与那些想要离开他们的人讲道理的方式，但他们很少做太多善事，因为除了不安和不合理的人之外，没有人会想到出生，而那些愚蠢到想到它的人一般都是愚蠢到这么做的。因此，朋友们发现他们无能为力，便哭着来到首席法官的法院，在那里，希望出生的人庄严而公开地宣布，他接受其决定所附加的条件。此时，他得到了一剂药水，它立即摧毁了他的记忆和身份感，并驱散了他所居住的稀薄的气态房屋：他变成了一个赤裸裸的重要原则，不被人类感官感知，也不被任何人所感知。化学测试赞赏。他只有一种本能，那就是他要去某某地方，在那里他会找到两个人，他要强求他们，直到他们同意接受他为止；但他是否要在乔博克人中找到这些人，还是在埃雷洪尼亚人中找到这些人，这不是他可以选择的。

CHAPTER XX: WHAT THEY MEAN BY IT
第二十章：他们的意思

I have given the above mythology at some length, but it is only a small part of what they have upon the subject. My first feeling on reading it was that any amount of folly on the part of the unborn in coming here was justified by a desire to escape from such intolerable prosing. The mythology is obviously an unfair and exaggerated representation of life and things; and had its authors been so minded they could have easily drawn a picture which would err as much on the bright side as this does on the dark. No Erewhonian believes that the world is as black as it has been here painted, but it is one of their peculiarities that they very often do not believe or mean things which they profess to regard as indisputable.
我已经详细地给出了上述神话，但这只是他们关于这个主题的一小部分。读到这本书时，我的第一感觉是，未出生的孩子来这里的任何愚蠢行为都是合理的，因为他们渴望逃离这种令人难以忍受的散文。神话显然是对生活和事物的不公平和夸张的表现；如果它的作者有这样的想法，他们很容易就能画出这样一幅图画，它在光明的一面和在黑暗的一面都会犯同样的错误。没有埃雷洪人相信世界就像这里所描绘的那样黑暗，但他们的特点之一是他们常常不相信或不相信他们自称认为无可争议的事情。

In the present instance their professed views concerning the unborn have arisen from their desire to prove that people have been presented with the gloomiest possible picture of their own prospects before they came here; otherwise, they could hardly say to one whom they are going to punish for an affection of the heart or brain that it is all his own doing. In practice they modify their theory to a considerable extent, and seldom refer to the birth formula except in extreme cases; for the force of habit, or what not, gives many of them a kindly interest even in creatures who have so much wronged them as the unborn have done; and though a man generally hates the unwelcome little stranger for the first twelve months, he is apt to mollify (according to his lights) as time goes on, and sometimes he will become inordinately attached to the beings whom he is pleased to call his children.
在目前的情况下，他们对未出生婴儿的看法源于他们希望证明人们在来到这里之前就已经看到了自己前景最黯淡的景象；否则，他们很难对一个因内心或大脑的感情而受到惩罚的人说，这都是他自己造成的。在实践中，他们对自己的理论进行了相当大的修改，除了极端情况外，很少提及出生公式。因为习惯的力量，或者其他原因，使他们中的许多人对那些像未出生的人那样冤枉过他们的生物产生了善意的兴趣。尽管一个人在最初的十二个月里通常会讨厌不受欢迎的小陌生人，但随着时间的推移，他很容易变得平静（根据他的看法），有时他会变得异常依恋那些他乐于称之为孩子的人。 。

Of course, according to Erewhonian premises, it would serve people right to be punished and scouted for moral and intellectual diseases as much as for physical, and I cannot to this day understand why they should have stopped short half way. Neither, again, can I understand why their having done so should have been, as it certainly was, a matter of so much concern to myself. What could it matter to me how many absurdities the Erewhonians might adopt? Nevertheless I longed to make them think as I did, for the wish to spread those opinions that we hold conducive to our own welfare is so deeply rooted in the English character that few of us can escape its influence. But let this pass.
当然，根据埃雷洪尼亚的前提，人们有权因道德和智力上的疾病而受到惩罚和侦察，就像身体上的疾病一样，我至今无法理解为什么他们应该中途停下来。我也无法理解为什么他们这样做应该是我自己如此关心的事情，事实上确实如此。埃雷洪人可能会采取多少荒谬的做法，这对我来说又有什么关系呢？尽管如此，我还是渴望让他们像我一样思考，因为传播那些我们认为有利于我们自身福祉的观点的愿望深深植根于英国人的性格中，以至于我们中很少有人能够逃脱它的影响。但让这件事过去吧。

In spite of not a few modifications in practice of a theory which is itself revolting, the relations between children and parents in that country are less happy than in Europe. It was rarely that I saw cases of real hearty and intense affection between the old people and the young ones. Here and there I did so, and was quite sure that the children, even at the age of twenty, were fonder of their parents than they were of any one else; and that of their own inclination, being free to choose what company they would, they would often choose that of their father and mother. The straightener’s carriage was rarely seen at the door of those houses. I saw two or three such cases during the time that I remained in the country, and cannot express the pleasure which I derived from a sight suggestive of so much goodness and wisdom and forbearance, so richly rewarded; yet I firmly believe that the same thing would happen in nine families out of ten if the parents were merely to remember how they felt when they were young, and actually to behave towards their children as they would have had their own parents behave towards themselves. But this, which would appear to be so simple and obvious, seems also to be a thing which not one in a hundred thousand is able to put in practice. It is only the very great and good who have any living faith in the simplest axioms; and there are few who are so holy as to feel that 19 and 13 make 32 as certainly as 2 and 2 make 4.
尽管这个本身就令人反感的理论在实践中做了不少修改，但那个国家的孩子和父母之间的关系并不像欧洲那样幸福。我很少见到老人和年轻人之间真正的真挚而深厚的感情。我时不时地这样做过，并且确信孩子们，即使在二十岁的时候，也比其他任何人都更爱他们的父母；他们可以根据自己的喜好自由选择陪伴的对象，通常会选择父母的陪伴。那些房子门口很少见到矫直机的马车。我在乡下的时候，见过两三个这样的例子，看到如此多的善良、智慧和忍耐，并得到如此丰厚的回报，我无法表达我的喜悦之情。但我坚信，如果父母仅仅记住他们年轻时的感受，并真正像对待自己的父母那样对待自己的孩子，那么十个家庭中就有九个会发生同样的事情。但这看似简单明了的事情，似乎也不是十万分之一的人能够付诸实践的。只有非常伟大和善良的人才会对最简单的公理抱有活泼的信念。很少有人如此神圣地认为 19 和 13 等于 32 就像 2 和 2 等于 4 一样。

I am quite sure that if this narrative should ever fall into Erewhonian hands, it will be said that what I have written about the relations between parents and children being seldom satisfactory is an infamous perversion of facts, and that in truth there are few young people who do not feel happier in the society of their nearest relations {4} than in any other. Mr. Nosnibor would be sure to say this. Yet I cannot refrain from expressing an opinion that he would be a good deal embarrassed if his deceased parents were to reappear and propose to pay him a six months’ visit. I doubt whether there are many things which he would regard as a greater infliction. They had died at a ripe old age some twenty years before I came to know him, so the case is an extreme one; but surely if they had treated him with what in his youth he had felt to be true unselfishness, his face would brighten when he thought of them to the end of his life.
我很确定，如果这篇叙述落入埃雷霍尼亚之手，人们会说，我所写的关于父母与孩子之间的关系很少令人满意的内容是对事实的臭名昭著的歪曲，而事实上，很少有年轻人他们在与自己最亲近的亲戚交往的社会中并不比在其他社会中感到更快乐{4}。诺斯尼博尔先生肯定会这么说。但我还是忍不住要表达这样的观点：如果他已故的父母再次出现并提议去拜访他六个月，他会感到非常尴尬。我怀疑是否有很多事情他会认为是更大的痛苦。他们在我认识他之前大约二十年就去世了，所以这是一个极端的例子。但可以肯定的是，如果他们以他年轻时所认为的真正无私的态度对待他，那么当他在生命的最后一刻想起他们时，他的脸色就会变得明亮。

In the one or two cases of true family affection which I met with, I am sure that the young people who were so genuinely fond of their fathers and mothers at eighteen, would at sixty be perfectly delighted were they to get the chance of welcoming them as their guests. There is nothing which could please them better, except perhaps to watch the happiness of their own children and grandchildren.
在我遇到的一两个真正亲情的例子中，我相信那些在十八岁时真心喜爱父母的年轻人，如果有机会在六十岁时受到欢迎，一定会非常高兴。作为他们的客人。没有什么比看到自己的子孙幸福更能让他们高兴的了。

This is how things should be. It is not an impossible ideal; it is one which actually does exist in some few cases, and might exist in almost all, with a little more patience and forbearance upon the parents’ part; but it is rare at present—so rare that they have a proverb which I can only translate in a very roundabout way, but which says that the great happiness of some people in a future state will consist in watching the distress of their parents on returning to eternal companionship with their grandfathers and grandmothers; whilst ‘compulsory affection’ is the idea which lies at the root of their word for the deepest anguish.
事情应该是这样的。这并不是一个不可能实现的理想。这种情况在少数情况下确实存在，而且只要父母多一点耐心和宽容，几乎所有情况都可能存在。但目前这种情况很少见，以至于他们有一句谚语，我只能以一种非常迂回的方式翻译，但它说，有些人在未来的状态中的最大幸福，就是看着父母归来时的痛苦。与祖辈、祖母永远相伴；而“强制性的感情”是他们表达最深痛苦的词的根源。

There is no talisman in the word ‘parent’ which can generate miracles of affection, and I can well believe that my own child might find it less of a calamity to lose both Arowhena and myself when he is six years old, than to find us again when he is sixty—a sentence which I would not pen did I not feel that by doing so I was giving him something like a hostage, or at any rate putting a weapon into his hands against me, should my selfishness exceed reasonable limits.
“父母”这个词没有任何护身符可以产生感情的奇迹，我完全相信，我自己的孩子可能会发现，在他六岁的时候失去阿罗菲娜和我，比找到我们更不那么灾难。当他六十岁的时候，我不会再写这句话，如果我不觉得这样做，我就给了他一个类似人质的东西，或者无论如何，如果我的自私超出了合理的限度，我就会把武器放在他手中来对付我。

Money is at the bottom of all this to a great extent. If the parents would put their children in the way of earning a competence earlier than they do, the children would soon become self- supporting and independent. As it is, under the present system, the young ones get old enough to have all manner of legitimate wants (that is, if they have any ‘go’ about them) before they have learnt the means of earning money to pay for them; hence they must either do without them, or take more money than the parents can be expected to spare. This is due chiefly to the schools of Unreason, where a boy is taught upon hypothetical principles, as I will explain hereafter; spending years in being incapacitated for doing this, that, or the other (he hardly knows what), during all which time he ought to have been actually doing the thing itself, beginning at the lowest grades, picking it up through actual practice, and rising according to the energy which is in him.
金钱在很大程度上是这一切的根源。如果父母比他们更早地让孩子获得能力，孩子很快就会变得自立和独立。事实上，在现行制度下，年轻人在学会赚钱养家糊口的方法之前，就已经足够大了，能够拥有各种合法的需求（也就是说，如果他们有任何“行动”的话）；因此，他们要么不带孩子，要么拿走比父母所能节省的更多的钱。这主要归功于非理性学校，在那里，男孩接受假设性原则的教育，我将在下文中解释这一点。花了很多年的时间，他无法做这个、那个或那个（他几乎不知道做什么），在这段时间里，他本应该真正做这件事本身，从最低年级开始，通过实际练习来掌握它，并且根据他体内的能量而上升。

These schools of Unreason surprised me much. It would be easy to fall into pseudo-utilitarianism, and I would fain believe that the system may be good for the children of very rich parents, or for those who show a natural instinct to acquire hypothetical lore; but the misery was that their Ydgrun-worship required all people with any pretence to respectability to send their children to some one or other of these schools, mulcting them of years of money. It astonished me to see what sacrifices the parents would make in order to render their children as nearly useless as possible; and it was hard to say whether the old suffered most from the expense which they were thus put to, or the young from being deliberately swindled in some of the most important branches of human inquiry, and directed into false channels or left to drift in the great majority of cases.
这些非理性流派让我非常惊讶。很容易陷入伪功利主义，我很愿意相信这个系统可能对非常富有的父母的孩子有好处，或者对那些表现出获得假设知识的自然本能的人有好处；但不幸的是，他们对伊德格林的崇拜要求所有假装受人尊敬的人都将他们的孩子送到这些学校中的一所或另一所，这让他们损失了多年的金钱。令我惊讶的是，父母们为了让自己的孩子尽可能地变得毫无用处而做出了多大的牺牲。很难说，到底是老年人遭受了最大的损失，还是年轻人在人类探究的一些最重要的领域被故意欺骗，被引导到错误的渠道，或者被遗弃在错误的道路上。绝大多数情况下。

I cannot think I am mistaken in believing that the growing tendency to limit families by infanticide—an evil which was causing general alarm throughout the country—was almost entirely due to the way in which education had become a fetish from one end of Erewhon to the other. Granted that provision should be made whereby every child should be taught reading, writing, and arithmetic, but here compulsory state-aided education should end, and the child should begin (with all due precautions to ensure that he is not overworked) to acquire the rudiments of that art whereby he is to earn his living.
我认为我不会错误地相信，通过杀婴来限制家庭的日益增长的趋势——这种罪恶在全国范围内引起了普遍的恐慌——几乎完全是由于教育从埃雷洪一端到另一端变成了一种迷恋。其他。诚然，应该规定每个孩子都应该接受阅读、写作和算术教育，但国家资助的义务教育应该结束，孩子应该开始（采取一切适当的预防措施以确保他不会过度劳累）获得他赖以谋生的艺术的基础。

He cannot acquire these in what we in England call schools of technical education; such schools are cloister life as against the rough and tumble of the world; they unfit, rather than fit for work in the open. An art can only be learned in the workshop of those who are winning their bread by it.
他无法在我们英国人所谓的技术教育学校中获得这些；这样的学校是与世隔绝的隐士生活。他们不适合，而不是适合户外工作。艺术只能在那些靠它赢得面包的人的工作室里学习。

Boys, as a rule, hate the artificial, and delight in the actual; give them the chance of earning, and they will soon earn. When parents find that their children, instead of being made artificially burdensome, will early begin to contribute to the well-being of the family, they will soon leave off killing them, and will seek to have that plenitude of offspring which they now avoid. As things are, the state lays greater burdens on parents than flesh and blood can bear, and then wrings its hands over an evil for which it is itself mainly responsible.
一般来说，男孩子讨厌做作的东西，喜欢现实的东西。给他们赚钱的机会，他们很快就会赚钱。当父母发现他们的孩子不会被人为地成为负担，而是会尽早开始为家庭的福祉做出贡献时，他们很快就会停止杀害孩子，并会寻求拥有他们现在所避免的繁衍后代。事实上，国家给父母带来的负担超出了血肉之躯所能承受的范围，然后又对自己负主要责任的罪恶绞尽脑汁。

With the less well-dressed classes the harm was not so great; for among these, at about ten years old, the child has to begin doing something: if he is capable he makes his way up; if he is not, he is at any rate not made more incapable by what his friends are pleased to call his education. People find their level as a rule; and though they unfortunately sometimes miss it, it is in the main true that those who have valuable qualities are perceived to have them and can sell them. I think that the Erewhonians are beginning to become aware of these things, for there was much talk about putting a tax upon all parents whose children were not earning a competence according to their degrees by the time they were twenty years old. I am sure that if they will have the courage to carry it through they will never regret it; for the parents will take care that the children shall begin earning money (which means ‘doing good’ to society) at an early age; then the children will be independent early, and they will not press on the parents, nor the parents on them, and they will like each other better than they do now.
对于衣着不太考究的阶层来说，伤害并没有那么大。因为在这些人中，大约十岁的时候，孩子就必须开始做一些事情：如果他有能力，他就会向上；如果他有能力，他就会进步；如果他有能力，他就会进步。如果他不是，至少他的朋友们乐于称他的教育并没有使他变得更加无能。人们通常会找到自己的水平；尽管不幸的是，他们有时会错过这一点，但总的来说，那些拥有宝贵品质的人被认为拥有这些品质，并且可以出售它们。我认为埃雷洪人已经开始意识到这些事情，因为有很多人谈论对所有孩子在二十岁时没有根据他们的学位获得能力的父母征税。我相信，如果他们有勇气坚持到底，他们将永远不会后悔；因为父母会照顾孩子从小就开始赚钱（这意味着对社会“做好事”）；那么孩子就会早点独立，他们不会压迫父母，父母也不会压迫他们，他们会比现在更喜欢彼此。

This is the true philanthropy. He who makes a colossal fortune in the hosiery trade, and by his energy has succeeded in reducing the price of woollen goods by the thousandth part of a penny in the pound—this man is worth ten professional philanthropists. So strongly are the Erewhonians impressed with this, that if a man has made a fortune of over 20,000 pounds a year they exempt him from all taxation, considering him as a work of art, and too precious to be meddled with; they say, ‘How very much he must have done for society before society could have been prevailed upon to give him so much money;’ so magnificent an organisation overawes them; they regard it as a thing dropped from heaven.
这才是真正的慈善事业。在袜子贸易中赚得巨额财富，并凭借自己的精力成功地将羊毛制品的价格降低了千分之一便士的人——这个人的价值相当于十个职业慈善家。埃雷洪尼亚人对此印象深刻，如果一个人每年的财富超过 20,000 英镑，他们就免除他的所有税收，认为他是一件艺术品，太珍贵了，不容干涉；他们说：“他必须为社会做出多少贡献，社会才能说服他给他这么多钱。”如此宏伟的组织令他们惊叹不已；他们将其视为从天而降的东西。

‘Money,’ they say, ‘is the symbol of duty, it is the sacrament of having done for mankind that which mankind wanted. Mankind may not be a very good judge, but there is no better.’ This used to shock me at first, when I remembered that it had been said on high authority that they who have riches shall enter hardly into the kingdom of heaven; but the influence of Erewhon had made me begin to see things in a new light, and I could not help thinking that they who have not riches shall enter more hardly still.
他们说，“金钱是责任的象征，是为人类完成人类想要的事情的圣礼。”人类也许不是一个很好的法官，但也没有比这更好的了。”起初，当我想起有权威说过，拥有财富的人很难进天国时，这让我很震惊；但埃雷洪的影响使我开始以新的眼光看待事物，我不禁想到，那些没有财富的人更难进入。

People oppose money to culture, and imply that if a man has spent his time in making money he will not be cultivated—fallacy of fallacies! As though there could be a greater aid to culture than the having earned an honourable independence, and as though any amount of culture will do much for the man who is penniless, except make him feel his position more deeply. The young man who was told to sell all his goods and give to the poor, must have been an entirely exceptional person if the advice was given wisely, either for him or for the poor; how much more often does it happen that we perceive a man to have all sorts of good qualities except money, and feel that his real duty lies in getting every half-penny that he can persuade others to pay him for his services, and becoming rich. It has been said that the love of money is the root of all evil. The want of money is so quite as truly.
人们把金钱与文化对立起来，暗示一个人如果把时间花在了赚钱上，他就没有修养——谬论中的谬论！似乎对文化的帮助可能比赢得光荣的独立更大，似乎任何程度的文化都会对身无分文的人有很大帮助，除了让他更深刻地感受到自己的地位。那个被告知要卖掉所有财产并施舍给穷人的年轻人，如果他的建议是明智的，无论是对他还是对穷人来说，他一定是一个完全不同寻常的人。更有多少时候，我们认为一个人拥有除金钱以外的各种良好品质，并认为他真正的责任在于获得他能说服别人付钱给他的每一分钱，并变得富有。 。有人说，贪财是万恶之源。缺钱是千真万确的。

The above may sound irreverent, but it is conceived in a spirit of the most utter reverence for those things which do alone deserve it—that is, for the things which are, which mould us and fashion us, be they what they may; for the things that have power to punish us, and which will punish us if we do not heed them; for our masters therefore. But I am drifting away from my story.
上述内容可能听起来不敬，但它是本着对那些单独值得尊重的事物最彻底的尊重的精神构思的，也就是说，对那些塑造我们和塑造我们的事物，无论它们是什么；因为那些有能力惩罚我们的事物，如果我们不听从它们，它们就会惩罚我们；因此，对于我们的主人来说。但我正在偏离我的故事。

They have another plan about which they are making a great noise and fuss, much as some are doing with women’s rights in England. A party of extreme radicals have professed themselves unable to decide upon the superiority of age or youth. At present all goes on the supposition that it is desirable to make the young old as soon as possible. Some would have it that this is wrong, and that the object of education should be to keep the old young as long as possible. They say that each age should take it turn in turn about, week by week, one week the old to be topsawyers, and the other the young, drawing the line at thirty-five years of age; but they insist that the young should be allowed to inflict corporal chastisement on the old, without which the old would be quite incorrigible. In any European country this would be out of the question; but it is not so there, for the straighteners are constantly ordering people to be flogged, so that they are familiar with the notion. I do not suppose that the idea will be ever acted upon; but its having been even mooted is enough to show the utter perversion of the Erewhonian mind.
他们还有另一个计划，对此他们大肆喧哗和大惊小怪，就像英国一些人在争取妇女权利方面所做的那样。一群极端激进分子声称自己无法决定年龄和青年的优越性。目前，所有人都认为希望尽快让年轻人变老。有人会认为这是错误的，教育的目的应该是让老的年轻的人尽可能长寿。他们说，每个年龄段都应该轮流轮流，一周一周，一周让老年人当拓宽者，另一周让年轻人当，以三十五岁为界；但他们坚持认为，应该允许年轻人对老年人进行体罚，否则老年人将无可救药。在任何欧洲国家，这都是不可能的。但那里的情况并非如此，因为矫正者经常下令鞭打人们，以便他们熟悉这个概念。我不认为这个想法会被付诸实施。但它的提出就足以表明埃雷洪人思想的彻底扭曲。

CHAPTER XXI: THE COLLEGES OF UNREASON
第二十一章：非理性学院

I had now been a visitor with the Nosnibors for some five or six months, and though I had frequently proposed to leave them and take apartments of my own, they would not hear of my doing so. I suppose they thought I should be more likely to fall in love with Zulora if I remained, but it was my affection for Arowhena that kept me.
我现在已经在诺斯尼伯一家做客了大约五六个月了，尽管我经常提出离开他们并拥有自己的公寓，但他们不会听说我这样做。我想他们认为如果我留下来，我应该更有可能爱上祖罗拉，但正是我对阿罗维娜的感情留住了我。

During all this time both Arowhena and myself had been dreaming, and drifting towards an avowed attachment, but had not dared to face the real difficulties of the position. Gradually, however, matters came to a crisis in spite of ourselves, and we got to see the true state of the case, all too clearly.
在这段时间里，阿罗菲娜和我都一直在做梦，并逐渐走向一种公开的依恋，但却不敢面对这个职位的真正困难。然而，渐渐地，事情不由自主地陷入了危机，我们也看清了案件的真相。

One evening we were sitting in the garden, and I had been trying in every stupid roundabout way to get her to say that she should be at any rate sorry for a man, if he really loved a woman who would not marry him. I had been stammering and blushing, and been as silly as any one could be, and I suppose had pained her by fishing for pity for myself in such a transparent way, and saying nothing about her own need of it; at any rate, she turned all upon me with a sweet sad smile and said, ‘Sorry? I am sorry for myself; I am sorry for you; and I am sorry for every one.’ The words had no sooner crossed her lips than she bowed her head, gave me a look as though I were to make no answer, and left me.
一天晚上，我们坐在花园里，我一直在试图以各种愚蠢的迂回方式让她说，如果一个男人真的爱一个不肯嫁给他的女人，她至少应该为他感到难过。我一直结结巴巴、脸红，像任何人一样愚蠢，我想，我以如此透明的方式为自己寻求怜悯，却只字不提她自己的需要，这让她感到痛苦；无论如何，她把一切转向我，脸上带着甜蜜而悲伤的微笑，说道：“抱歉？”我为自己感到难过；我为你感到难过；我为每个人感到抱歉。”话一出口，她就低下了头，看了我一眼，好像我不想回答，然后就离开了我。

The words were few and simple, but the manner with which they were uttered was ineffable: the scales fell from my eyes, and I felt that I had no right to try and induce her to infringe one of the most inviolable customs of her country, as she needs must do if she were to marry me. I sat for a long while thinking, and when I remembered the sin and shame and misery which an unrighteous marriage—for as such it would be held in Erewhon—would entail, I became thoroughly ashamed of myself for having been so long self- blinded. I write coldly now, but I suffered keenly at the time, and should probably retain a much more vivid recollection of what I felt, had not all ended so happily.
这些话很少而简单，但说话的方式却是难以形容的：天平从我的眼睛里掉下来，我觉得我没有权利试图引导她侵犯她国家最不可侵犯的习俗之一，如果她要嫁给我，她就必须这么做。我坐了很长一段时间思考，当我想起一场不义的婚姻——因为在埃里洪举行这样的婚姻——将带来的罪恶、耻辱和痛苦时，我为自己长期以来的自我蒙蔽感到彻底羞愧。 。我现在写得很冷淡，但当时我很痛苦，也许应该对我的感受保留更生动的回忆，但一切并没有那么幸福地结束。

As for giving up the idea of marrying Arowhena, it never so much as entered my head to do so: the solution must be found in some other direction than this. The idea of waiting till somebody married Zulora was to be no less summarily dismissed. To marry Arowhena at once in Erewhon—this had already been abandoned: there remained therefore but one alternative, and that was to run away with her, and get her with me to Europe, where there would be no bar to our union save my own impecuniosity, a matter which gave me no uneasiness.
至于放弃与阿罗菲娜结婚的想法，我从来没有想到过：必须从其他方向找到解决方案。等到某人与祖洛拉结婚的想法也同样被草率地打消了。立即在埃瑞洪迎娶阿罗希娜——这件事已经被放弃了：因此只剩下一个选择，那就是带着她私奔，带她和我一起去欧洲，在那里，除了我自己的联盟​​之外，我们的结合不会受到任何阻碍。身无分文，这并不让我感到不安。

To this obvious and simple plan I could see but two objections that deserved the name,—the first, that perhaps Arowhena would not come; the second, that it was almost impossible for me to escape even alone, for the king had himself told me that I was to consider myself a prisoner on parole, and that the first sign of my endeavouring to escape would cause me to be sent to one of the hospitals for incurables. Besides, I did not know the geography of the country, and even were I to try and find my way back, I should be discovered long before I had reached the pass over which I had come. How then could I hope to be able to take Arowhena with me? For days and days I turned these difficulties over in my mind, and at last hit upon as wild a plan as was ever suggested by extremity. This was to meet the second difficulty: the first gave me less uneasiness, for when Arowhena and I next met after our interview in the garden I could see that she had suffered not less acutely than myself.
对于这个明显而简单的计划，我只能看到两个名副其实的反对意见：第一，也许阿罗希纳不会来；第二，即使我独自一人逃跑，也几乎不可能，因为国王亲自告诉我，我将被视为假释囚犯，而我一旦试图逃跑，就会被送往监狱。收治不治之症的医院之一。此外，我不了解这个国家的地理，即使我试图找到回去的路，我也会在到达我来时经过的山口之前很久就被发现了。那么我怎么能希望能够带着Arowhena一起呢？日复一日，我在心里反复思索这些困难，最后突然想到了一个极端的计划。这是为了应对第二个困难：第一个困难让我不那么不安，因为当我和阿罗维娜在花园里采访后下次见面时，我可以看到她所遭受的痛苦并不比我少。

I resolved that I would have another interview with her—the last for the present—that I would then leave her, and set to work upon maturing my plan as fast as possible. We got a chance of being alone together, and then I gave myself the loose rein, and told her how passionately and devotedly I loved her. She said little in return, but her tears (which I could not refrain from answering with my own) and the little she did say were quite enough to show me that I should meet with no obstacle from her. Then I asked her whether she would run a terrible risk which we should share in common, if, in case of success, I could take her to my own people, to the home of my mother and sisters, who would welcome her very gladly. At the same time I pointed out that the chances of failure were far greater than those of success, and that the probability was that even though I could get so far as to carry my design into execution, it would end in death to us both.
我决定再一次采访她——目前最后一次——然后我就离开她，并开始尽快完善我的计划。我们有机会单独在一起，然后我放开了自己，告诉她我是多么热情和忠诚地爱她。她没有说什么作为回应，但她的眼泪（我忍不住用自己的泪水回应）和她所说的那一点足以告诉我，我不应该遇到她的任何障碍。然后我问她是否会冒我们共同承担的可怕风险，如果成功的话，我可以带她到我自己的人民那里，到我母亲和姐妹的家里，他们会非常高兴地欢迎她。同时我指出，失败的可能性远大于成功的可能性，而且即使我能够将我的设计付诸实施，也有可能以我们两人的死亡告终。

I was not mistaken in her; she said that she believed I loved her as much as she loved me, and that she would brave anything if I could only assure her that what I proposed would not be thought dishonourable in England; she could not live without me, and would rather die with me than alone; that death was perhaps the best for us both; that I must plan, and that when the hour came I was to send for her, and trust her not to fail me; and so after many tears and embraces, we tore ourselves away.
我没有看错她。她说她相信我爱她就像她爱我一样，只要我能向她保证我的提议在英国不会被认为是不光彩的，她愿意勇敢做任何事。她没有我就活不下去，宁愿和我一起死也不愿孤单。死亡也许对我们俩都是最好的；我必须做好计划，到时候我就派人去找她，相信她不会让我失望。因此，在多次流泪和拥抱之后，我们分手了。

I then left the Nosnibors, took a lodging in the town, and became melancholy to my heart’s content. Arowhena and I used to see each other sometimes, for I had taken to going regularly to the Musical Banks, but Mrs. Nosnibor and Zulora both treated me with considerable coldness. I felt sure that they suspected me. Arowhena looked miserable, and I saw that her purse was now always as full as she could fill it with the Musical Bank money—much fuller than of old. Then the horrible thought occurred to me that her health might break down, and that she might be subjected to a criminal prosecution. Oh! how I hated Erewhon at that time.
然后我就离开了诺斯尼伯一家，在镇上寄宿下来，心里惆怅起来。阿罗维娜和我有时会见面，因为我习惯了定期去音乐银行，但诺斯尼博尔夫人和祖罗拉对我都相当冷淡。我确信他们怀疑我。阿罗维娜看起来很痛苦，我看到她的钱包现在总是装满了音乐银行的钱——比以前装得多。然后我突然想到她的健康可能会崩溃，她可能会受到刑事起诉。哦！那时我多么讨厌Erewhon。

I was still received at court, but my good looks were beginning to fail me, and I was not such an adept at concealing the effects of pain as the Erewhonians are. I could see that my friends began to look concerned about me, and was obliged to take a leaf out of Mahaina’s book, and pretend to have developed a taste for drinking. I even consulted a straightener as though this were so, and submitted to much discomfort. This made matters better for a time, but I could see that my friends thought less highly of my constitution as my flesh began to fall away.
我仍然在法庭上受到接待，但我的美貌开始让我失望，而且我不像埃雷洪人那样善于隐藏痛苦的影响。我看得出来，我的朋友们开始关心我，不得不向马海娜的书学习，假装已经养成了喝酒的习惯。我什至咨询了直发器，好像确实如此，并且感到非常不舒服。这让事情一度好转，但我可以看到，随着我的肉体开始脱落，我的朋友们对我体质的评价降低了。

I was told that the poor made an outcry about my pension, and I saw a stinging article in an anti-ministerial paper, in which the writer went so far as to say that my having light hair reflected little credit upon me, inasmuch as I had been reported to have said that it was a common thing in the country from which I came. I have reason to believe that Mr. Nosnibor himself inspired this article. Presently it came round to me that the king had begun to dwell upon my having been possessed of a watch, and to say that I ought to be treated medicinally for having told him a lie about the balloons. I saw misfortune gathering round me in every direction, and felt that I should have need of all my wits and a good many more, if I was to steer myself and Arowhena to a good conclusion.
有人告诉我，穷人对我的养老金提出强烈抗议，我在一份反部长的报纸上看到了一篇尖刻的文章，其中作者甚至说我的浅色头发并没有给我带来多少荣誉，因为我据报道说，这在我来自的国家是很常见的事情。我有理由相信诺斯尼博尔先生本人启发了这篇文章。不久，我意识到国王开始谈论我拥有一块手表，并说我应该因为对他说了关于气球的谎言而接受治疗。我看到不幸从四面八方聚集在我周围，我觉得如果我想引导自己和阿罗维娜取得一个好的结果，我需要发挥我所有的智慧，甚至更多。

There were some who continued to show me kindness, and strange to say, I received the most from the very persons from whom I should have least expected it—I mean from the cashiers of the Musical Banks. I had made the acquaintance of several of these persons, and now that I frequented their bank, they were inclined to make a good deal of me. One of them, seeing that I was thoroughly out of health, though of course he pretended not to notice it, suggested that I should take a little change of air and go down with him to one of the principal towns, which was some two or three days’ journey from the metropolis, and the chief seat of the Colleges of Unreason; he assured me that I should be delighted with what I saw, and that I should receive a most hospitable welcome. I determined therefore to accept the invitation.
有些人继续对我表现出善意，奇怪的是，我从那些我最不应该期待的人那里得到了最多的东西——我指的是音乐银行的出纳员。我已经认识了其中几个人，现在我经常去他们的银行，他们很愿意拿我做很多事情。其中一个人看到我的健康状况不佳，当然他假装没有注意到，建议我换换空气，然后和他一起去一个主要城镇，那里大约有两个或两个。距离大都市三天路程，无理学院总校所在地；他向我保证，我会对所看到的感到高兴，并且会受到最热情的欢迎。因此我决定接受邀请。

We started two or three days later, and after a night on the road, we arrived at our destination towards evening. It was now full spring, and as nearly as might be ten months since I had started with Chowbok on my expedition, but it seemed more like ten years. The trees were in their freshest beauty, and the air had become warm without being oppressively hot. After having lived so many months in the metropolis, the sight of the country, and the country villages through which we passed refreshed me greatly, but I could not forget my troubles. The last five miles or so were the most beautiful part of the journey, for the country became more undulating, and the woods were more extensive; but the first sight of the city of the colleges itself was the most delightful of all. I cannot imagine that there can be any fairer in the whole world, and I expressed my pleasure to my companion, and thanked him for having brought me.
两三天后我们出发，经过一夜的路途，傍晚时分到达了目的地。现在已经是春天了，距离我和乔博克一起探险已经过去了将近十个月，但看起来更像是十年了。树木呈现出最新鲜的美丽，空气变得温暖，但并不闷热。在大都市生活了这么多个月，看到乡村、经过的乡村，让我精神焕发，但我却无法忘记自己的烦恼。最后五英里左右是整个旅程中最美丽的部分，因为乡村变得更加起伏，树林更加广阔；但第一眼看到大学城本身是最令人愉快的。我无法想象世界上还有比这更公平的事情了，我向我的同伴表达了我的高兴，并感谢他带我来。

We drove to an inn in the middle of the town, and then, while it was still light, my friend the cashier, whose name was Thims, took me for a stroll in the streets and in the court-yards of the principal colleges. Their beauty and interest were extreme; it was impossible to see them without being attracted towards them; and I thought to myself that he must be indeed an ill-grained and ungrateful person who can have been a member of one of these colleges without retaining an affectionate feeling towards it for the rest of his life. All my misgivings gave way at once when I saw the beauty and venerable appearance of this delightful city. For half-an-hour I forgot both myself and Arowhena.
我们开车到镇中心的一家旅馆，天还亮的时候，我的收银员朋友蒂姆斯带我在街上和主要学院的庭院里散步。他们的美丽和兴趣是极端的。看到它们就不可能不被它们吸引。我心里想，他确实是个心胸狭隘、忘恩负义的人，竟然能成为其中一所学院的一员，却对它终生没有保留一份感情。当我看到这座令人愉快的城市的美丽和庄严的外观时，我所有的疑虑立刻消失了。半个小时里我忘记了自己和阿罗维娜。

After supper Mr. Thims told me a good deal about the system of education which is here practised. I already knew a part of what I heard, but much was new to me, and I obtained a better idea of the Erewhonian position than I had done hitherto: nevertheless there were parts of the scheme of which I could not comprehend the fitness, although I fully admit that this inability was probably the result of my having been trained so very differently, and to my being then much out of sorts.
晚餐后，蒂姆斯先生向我讲述了很多关于这里实行的教育制度的事情。我已经知道了我听到的一部分内容，但很多东西对我来说都是新的，而且我对埃雷洪尼亚的立场有了比迄今为止更好的了解：尽管如此，该计划的某些部分我无法理解其适用性，尽管我完全承认，这种无能可能是由于我所接受的训练非常不同，以及当时我的状态很差所致。

The main feature in their system is the prominence which they give to a study which I can only translate by the word ‘hypothetics.’ They argue thus—that to teach a boy merely the nature of the things which exist in the world around him, and about which he will have to be conversant during his whole life, would be giving him but a narrow and shallow conception of the universe, which it is urged might contain all manner of things which are not now to be found therein. To open his eyes to these possibilities, and so to prepare him for all sorts of emergencies, is the object of this system of hypothetics. To imagine a set of utterly strange and impossible contingencies, and require the youths to give intelligent answers to the questions that arise therefrom, is reckoned the fittest conceivable way of preparing them for the actual conduct of their affairs in after life.
他们的体系的主要特点是他们对一项研究的重视，我只能用“假设学”这个词来翻译这项研究。他们这样认为——仅仅教一个男孩他周围世界中存在的事物的本质，他一生都必须熟悉的知识，只会给他一个狭隘而肤浅的宇宙概念，它敦促可能包含现在在宇宙中找不到的所有事物。让他看到这些可能性，从而为各种紧急情况做好准备，就是这个假设系统的目标。想象一系列完全奇怪和不可能的意外事件，并要求年轻人对由此产生的问题给出明智的答案，被认为是为他们来世实际处理事务做好准备的最合适的可能方法。

Thus they are taught what is called the hypothetical language for many of their best years—a language which was originally composed at a time when the country was in a very different state of civilisation to what it is at present, a state which has long since disappeared and been superseded. Many valuable maxims and noble thoughts which were at one time concealed in it have become current in their modern literature, and have been translated over and over again into the language now spoken. Surely then it would seem enough that the study of the original language should be confined to the few whose instincts led them naturally to pursue it.
因此，他们在许多最美好的岁月里都被教导着所谓的假设语言——这种语言最初是在这个国家处于与现在截然不同的文明状态的时候创造的，这种状态很久以前就已经存在了。消失并被取代。许多曾经隐藏在其中的有价值的格言和崇高的思想已经在他们的现代文学中流行起来，并被一遍又一遍地翻译成现在所使用的语言。当然，对原始语言的研究应该仅限于少数人，他们的本能自然地引导他们去追求它，这似乎就足够了。

But the Erewhonians think differently; the store they set by this hypothetical language can hardly be believed; they will even give any one a maintenance for life if he attains a considerable proficiency in the study of it; nay, they will spend years in learning to translate some of their own good poetry into the hypothetical language—to do so with fluency being reckoned a distinguishing mark of a scholar and a gentleman. Heaven forbid that I should be flippant, but it appeared to me to be a wanton waste of good human energy that men should spend years and years in the perfection of so barren an exercise, when their own civilisation presented problems by the hundred which cried aloud for solution and would have paid the solver handsomely; but people know their own affairs best. If the youths chose it for themselves I should have wondered less; but they do not choose it; they have it thrust upon them, and for the most part are disinclined towards it. I can only say that all I heard in defence of the system was insufficient to make me think very highly of its advantages.
但埃瑞洪人的想法不同。他们对这种假设语言的重视程度令人难以置信。如果一个人在学习方面取得了相当的熟练程度，他们甚至会为他提供终身赡养费。不仅如此，他们还将花费数年时间学习将自己的一些好诗翻译成假设的语言——这样做的流畅性被认为是学者和绅士的显着标志。上帝不允许我轻率，但在我看来，人们花费数年时间来完善如此贫瘠的一项练习，这在我看来是对人类良好能量的肆意浪费，而当他们自己的文明提出了数百个大声疾呼的问题时寻求解决方案，并会向解决者支付丰厚的费用；但人们最了解自己的事情。如果年轻人为自己选择了它，我就不会那么奇怪了；但他们不选择它；他们是强加给他们的，而且大多数人不愿意这样做。我只能说，我听到的所有为该系统辩护的内容不足以让我高度评价它的优点。

The arguments in favour of the deliberate development of the unreasoning faculties were much more cogent. But here they depart from the principles on which they justify their study of hypothetics; for they base the importance which they assign to hypothetics upon the fact of their being a preparation for the extraordinary, while their study of Unreason rests upon its developing those faculties which are required for the daily conduct of affairs. Hence their professorships of Inconsistency and Evasion, in both of which studies the youths are examined before being allowed to proceed to their degree in hypothetics. The more earnest and conscientious students attain to a proficiency in these subjects which is quite surprising; there is hardly any inconsistency so glaring but they soon learn to defend it, or injunction so clear that they cannot find some pretext for disregarding it.
支持刻意发展非理性能力的论点更有说服力。但在这里他们背离了他们证明假设研究合理性的原则。因为他们对假设的重视是基于假设是为非凡的事情做准备的事实，而他们对非理性的研究则基于其发展日常事务处理所需的能力。因此，他们获得了“不一致”和“逃避”的教授职位，在这两项研究中，年轻人在被允许继续攻读假设学学位之前都会受到检查。更加认真和认真的学生能够熟练掌握这些科目，这是相当令人惊讶的。几乎没有任何不一致之处如此明显，但他们很快就学会了捍卫它，或者禁令如此明确，以至于他们找不到任何借口来忽视它。

Life, they urge, would be intolerable if men were to be guided in all they did by reason and reason only. Reason betrays men into the drawing of hard and fast lines, and to the defining by language—language being like the sun, which rears and then scorches. Extremes are alone logical, but they are always absurd; the mean is illogical, but an illogical mean is better than the sheer absurdity of an extreme. There are no follies and no unreasonablenesses so great as those which can apparently be irrefragably defended by reason itself, and there is hardly an error into which men may not easily be led if they base their conduct upon reason only.
他们强烈主张，如果人们所做的一切都受到理性的引导，并且仅仅依靠理性，那么生活将是无法忍受的。理性背叛了人们，让他们画出严格而快速的线条，并通过语言进行定义——语言就像太阳，升起然后灼热。极端虽然合乎逻辑，但总是荒谬的。中庸之道是不合逻辑的，但不合逻辑的中庸之道总比完全荒谬的极端要好。没有什么愚蠢和不合理的行为比那些显然可以通过理性本身无可辩驳地辩护的行为更严重，而且如果人们只将自己的行为建立在理性的基础上，那么几乎没有什么错误是不容易被引入的。

Reason might very possibly abolish the double currency; it might even attack the personality of Hope and Justice. Besides, people have such a strong natural bias towards it that they will seek it for themselves and act upon it quite as much as or more than is good for them: there is no need of encouraging reason. With unreason the case is different. She is the natural complement of reason, without whose existence reason itself were non-existent.
理性很可能废除双重货币；它甚至可能攻击希望和正义的人格。此外，人们对它有一种强烈的自然偏见，以至于他们会为自己寻求它，并按照它采取尽可能多或超过对他们有利的行动：不需要鼓励性的理由。如果是非理性，情况就不同了。她是理性的天然补充，没有她的存在，理性本身就不存在。

If, then, reason would be non-existent were there no such thing as unreason, surely it follows that the more unreason there is, the more reason there must be also? Hence the necessity for the development of unreason, even in the interests of reason herself. The Professors of Unreason deny that they undervalue reason: none can be more convinced than they are, that if the double currency cannot be rigorously deduced as a necessary consequence of human reason, the double currency should cease forthwith; but they say that it must be deduced from no narrow and exclusive view of reason which should deprive that admirable faculty of the one-half of its own existence. Unreason is a part of reason; it must therefore be allowed its full share in stating the initial conditions.
那么，如果没有非理性这样的东西，理性就不存在，那么，非理性越多，理性必然也就越多吧？因此，即使为了理性本身的利益，非理性的发展也是必要的。非理性教授们否认他们低估了理性：没有人比他们更确信，如果双重货币不能被严格地推论为人类理性的必然结果，那么双重货币就应该立即停止；但他们说，它不能从狭隘和排他性的理性观点中推论出来，这种观点应该剥夺这一令人钦佩的能力的一半存在。非理性是理性的一部分；因此，必须允许它充分参与陈述初始条件。

CHAPTER XXII: THE COLLEGES OF UNREASON—Continued
第二十二章：非理性学院——续

Of genius they make no account, for they say that every one is a genius, more or less. No one is so physically sound that no part of him will be even a little unsound, and no one is so diseased but that some part of him will be healthy—so no man is so mentally and morally sound, but that he will be in part both mad and wicked; and no man is so mad and wicked but he will be sensible and honourable in part. In like manner there is no genius who is not also a fool, and no fool who is not also a genius.
他们不考虑天才，因为他们说每个人或多或少都是天才。没有一个人的身体健康得如此健全，以至于他的任何部分都不会有一点不健康；也没有一个人病得如此严重，但他的某些部分却是健康的——同样，没有一个人的精神和道德如此健全，但他仍处于健康状态。分开疯狂和邪恶；没有人会如此疯狂和邪恶，但他也会有部分理智和光荣。同样地，没有一个天才不是一个傻瓜，也没有一个傻瓜不是一个天才。

When I talked about originality and genius to some gentlemen whom I met at a supper party given by Mr. Thims in my honour, and said that original thought ought to be encouraged, I had to eat my words at once. Their view evidently was that genius was like offences— needs must that it come, but woe unto that man through whom it comes. A man’s business, they hold, is to think as his neighbours do, for Heaven help him if he thinks good what they count bad. And really it is hard to see how the Erewhonian theory differs from our own, for the word ‘idiot’ only means a person who forms his opinions for himself.
当我在蒂姆斯先生为我举办的晚宴上遇到的一些先生谈论原创性和天才，并说应该鼓励原创性思想时，我不得不立即收回自己的话。他们的观点显然是，天才就像冒犯——天才必须出现，但天才的出现却是有祸的。他们认为，一个人的职责就是像他的邻居一样思考，因为如果他认为他们认为不好的事情是好的，上天会帮助他。事实上，很难看出埃鲁霍尼的理论与我们自己的理论有什么不同，因为“白痴”这个词只意味着一个为自己形成自己观点的人。

The venerable Professor of Worldly Wisdom, a man verging on eighty but still hale, spoke to me very seriously on this subject in consequence of the few words that I had imprudently let fall in defence of genius. He was one of those who carried most weight in the university, and had the reputation of having done more perhaps than any other living man to suppress any kind of originality.
德高望重的世间智慧教授，一位年近八十却依然精神矍铄的老人，由于我在为天才辩护时不小心说了几句话，他非常严肃地向我谈到了这个话题。他是大学里最有影响力的人之一，并享有盛誉，因为他在压制任何原创性方面可能比任何其他在世的人都做得更多。

‘It is not our business,’ he said, ‘to help students to think for themselves. Surely this is the very last thing which one who wishes them well should encourage them to do. Our duty is to ensure that they shall think as we do, or at any rate, as we hold it expedient to say we do.’ In some respects, however, he was thought to hold somewhat radical opinions, for he was President of the Society for the Suppression of Useless Knowledge, and for the Completer Obliteration of the Past.
他说：“帮助学生独立思考不是我们的事。”当然，这是祝福他们的人应该鼓励他们做的最后一件事。我们的职责是确保他们像我们一样思考，或者至少像我们认为说我们这样做是有利的那样。”然而，在某些方面，他被认为持有一些激进的观点，因为他是总统抑制无用知识并彻底消除过去的协会。

As regards the tests that a youth must pass before he can get a degree, I found that they have no class lists, and discourage anything like competition among the students; this, indeed, they regard as self-seeking and unneighbourly. The examinations are conducted by way of papers written by the candidate on set subjects, some of which are known to him beforehand, while others are devised with a view of testing his general capacity and savoir faire.
至于年轻人获得学位之前必须通过的考试，我发现他们没有班级名单，不鼓励学生之间的竞争；事实上，他们认为这是自私且不睦的。考试是通过考生就指定科目撰写的试卷进行的，其中一些科目是他事先知道的，而另一些科目则是为了测试他的一般能力和专业知识而设计的。

My friend the Professor of Worldly Wisdom was the terror of the greater number of students; and, so far as I could judge, he very well might be, for he had taken his Professorship more seriously than any of the other Professors had done. I heard of his having plucked one poor fellow for want of sufficient vagueness in his saving clauses paper. Another was sent down for having written an article on a scientific subject without having made free enough use of the words ‘carefully,’ ‘patiently,’ and ‘earnestly.’ One man was refused a degree for being too often and too seriously in the right, while a few days before I came a whole batch had been plucked for insufficient distrust of printed matter.
我的朋友，世俗智慧教授让更多的学生感到恐惧。据我判断，他很可能是这样，因为他比任何其他教授都更认真地对待自己的教授职位。我听说他因为储蓄条款文件不够含糊而解雇了一个可怜的家伙。另一个人因为写了一篇关于科学主题的文章而没有充分自由地使用“仔细”、“耐心”和“认真”等词而被罚下。是的，而在我来的前几天，由于对印刷品的不信任，整批都被摘了下来。

About this there was just then rather a ferment, for it seems that the Professor had written an article in the leading university magazine, which was well known to be by him, and which abounded in all sorts of plausible blunders. He then set a paper which afforded the examinees an opportunity of repeating these blunders— which, believing the article to be by their own examiner, they of course did. The Professor plucked every single one of them, but his action was considered to have been not quite handsome.
关于此事，当时引起了相当大的骚动，因为教授似乎在主要大学杂志上写了一篇文章，众所周知，这篇文章是他写的，其中充满了各种看似合理的错误。然后，他布置了一篇试卷，为考生提供了重复这些错误的机会——他们相信这篇文章是他们自己的考官写的，他们当然这么做了。教授一个个都拔了，但动作却被认为不太帅。

I told them of Homer’s noble line to the effect that a man should strive ever to be foremost and in all things to outvie his peers; but they said that no wonder the countries in which such a detestable maxim was held in admiration were always flying at one another’s throats.
我告诉他们荷马的高贵思想，大意是一个人应该永远努力成为第一，在所有事情上都超越他的同龄人。但他们表示，难怪那些推崇这种令人憎恶的格言的国家总是互相争斗。

‘Why,’ asked one Professor, ‘should a man want to be better than his neighbours? Let him be thankful if he is no worse.’
一位教授问道：“为什么一个人应该比他的邻居更好？”如果他没有变得更糟，就让他心存感激吧。

I ventured feebly to say that I did not see how progress could be made in any art or science, or indeed in anything at all, without more or less self-seeking, and hence unamiability.
我壮着胆子说，如果没有或多或少的自私自利和不友善，我看不出如何能够在任何艺术或科学上取得进步，甚至在任何事情上都能取得进步。

‘Of course it cannot,’ said the Professor, ‘and therefore we object to progress.’
“当然不可能，”教授说，“因此我们反对进步。”

After which there was no more to be said. Later on, however, a young Professor took me aside and said he did not think I quite understood their views about progress.
之后就没有再说什么了。然而后来，一位年轻的教授把我拉到一边，说他认为我不太理解他们对进步的看法。

‘We like progress,’ he said, ‘but it must commend itself to the common sense of the people. If a man gets to know more than his neighbours he should keep his knowledge to himself till he has sounded them, and seen whether they agree, or are likely to agree with him. He said it was as immoral to be too far in front of one’s own age, as to lag too far behind it. If a man can carry his neighbours with him, he may say what he likes; but if not, what insult can be more gratuitous than the telling them what they do not want to know? A man should remember that intellectual over- indulgence is one of the most insidious and disgraceful forms that excess can take. Granted that every one should exceed more or less, inasmuch as absolutely perfect sanity would drive any man mad the moment he reached it, but … ‘
“我们喜欢进步，”他说，“但它必须符合人民的常识。”如果一个人比他的邻居懂得更多，他就应该保守自己的知识，直到他试探过他们，看看他们是否同意或可能同意他的观点。他说，远远超过自己的年龄，就像落后太远一样，都是不道德的。如果一个人能够带着他的邻居一起去，他就可以说他想说的话；但如果不是，还有什么侮辱比告诉他们他们不想知道的事情更无端呢？一个人应该记住，智力上的过度放纵是放纵行为中最阴险、最可耻的形式之一。诚然，每个人都应该或多或少地超过，因为绝对完美的理智会让任何人在达到它的那一刻发疯，但是……”

He was now warming to his subject and I was beginning to wonder how I should get rid of him, when the party broke up, and though I promised to call on him before I left, I was unfortunately prevented from doing so.
他现在对他的话题越来越感兴趣，我开始想知道该如何摆脱他，当聚会散场时，虽然我答应在离开前拜访他，但不幸的是我没有这样做。

I have now said enough to give English readers some idea of the strange views which the Erewhonians hold concerning unreason, hypothetics, and education generally. In many respects they were sensible enough, but I could not get over the hypothetics, especially the turning their own good poetry into the hypothetical language. In the course of my stay I met one youth who told me that for fourteen years the hypothetical language had been almost the only thing that he had been taught, although he had never (to his credit, as it seemed to me) shown the slightest proclivity towards it, while he had been endowed with not inconsiderable ability for several other branches of human learning. He assured me that he would never open another hypothetical book after he had taken his degree, but would follow out the bent of his own inclinations. This was well enough, but who could give him his fourteen years back again?
我现在已经说了足够多的内容，足以让英国读者了解埃雷洪人对非理性、假设和一般教育所持有的奇怪观点。他们在很多方面都足够明智，但我无法克服这些假设，尤其是将他们自己的好诗变成假设的语言。在我逗留期间，我遇到了一位年轻人，他告诉我，十四年来，假想语言几乎是他所学到的唯一东西，尽管他从未（值得赞扬的是，在我看来）表现出丝毫的兴趣。他在人类学习的其他几个分支方面也被赋予了不小的能力。他向我保证，在获得学位后，他永远不会再打开另一本假想的书，而是会按照自己的喜好行事。这已经很好了，但谁能让他回到十四岁呢？

I sometimes wondered how it was that the mischief done was not more clearly perceptible, and that the young men and women grew up as sensible and goodly as they did, in spite of the attempts almost deliberately made to warp and stunt their growth. Some doubtless received damage, from which they suffered to their life’s end; but many seemed little or none the worse, and some, almost the better. The reason would seem to be that the natural instinct of the lads in most cases so absolutely rebelled against their training, that do what the teachers might they could never get them to pay serious heed to it. The consequence was that the boys only lost their time, and not so much of this as might have been expected, for in their hours of leisure they were actively engaged in exercises and sports which developed their physical nature, and made them at any rate strong and healthy.
有时我想知道为什么这些恶作剧并没有更明显地被察觉，尽管人们几乎故意扭曲和阻碍年轻男女的成长，但这些年轻男女却像他们一样明智而良好地成长。毫无疑问，有些人受到了伤害，并因此丧命。但许多人似乎并没有变得更糟，甚至没有更糟，而有些则几乎更好。原因似乎是，在大多数情况下，小伙子们的自然本能完全违背了他们的训练，即使老师想做的事，他们也永远无法让他们认真注意。结果是，男孩们只是失去了时间，而且并没有想象中的那么多，因为在闲暇时间，他们积极参加锻炼和运动，这些锻炼和运动发展了他们的身体素质，至少使他们变得强壮和健康的。

Moreover those who had any special tastes could not be restrained from developing them: they would learn what they wanted to learn and liked, in spite of obstacles which seemed rather to urge them on than to discourage them, while for those who had no special capacity, the loss of time was of comparatively little moment; but in spite of these alleviations of the mischief, I am sure that much harm was done to the children of the sub-wealthy classes, by the system which passes current among the Erewhonians as education. The poorest children suffered least—if destruction and death have heard the sound of wisdom, to a certain extent poverty has done so also.
此外，那些有任何特殊品味的人不能被限制发展它们：他们会学习他们想学和喜欢的东西，尽管障碍似乎是在敦促他们而不是阻止他们，而对于那些没有特殊能力的人来说，时间的损失相对较小；但是，尽管这些危害有所减轻，但我确信埃雷洪人中流行的教育制度对次富裕阶层的孩子造成了很大的伤害。最贫困的儿童遭受的痛苦最少——如果破坏和死亡听到了智慧的声音，那么在某种程度上，贫困也起到了同样的作用。

And yet perhaps, after all, it is better for a country that its seats of learning should do more to suppress mental growth than to encourage it. Were it not for a certain priggishness which these places infuse into so great a number of their alumni, genuine work would become dangerously common. It is essential that by far the greater part of what is said or done in the world should be so ephemeral as to take itself away quickly; it should keep good for twenty-four hours, or even twice as long, but it should not be good enough a week hence to prevent people from going on to something else. No doubt the marvellous development of journalism in England, as also the fact that our seats of learning aim rather at fostering mediocrity than anything higher, is due to our subconscious recognition of the fact that it is even more necessary to check exuberance of mental development than to encourage it. There can be no doubt that this is what our academic bodies do, and they do it the more effectually because they do it only subconsciously. They think they are advancing healthy mental assimilation and digestion, whereas in reality they are little better than cancer in the stomach.
但归根结底，对于一个国家来说，其学习场所应该更多地抑制智力发展而不是鼓励智力发展，这也许更好。如果不是这些地方给如此多的校友灌输了某种自以为是的态度，真正的工作就会变得危险地普遍。至关重要的是，迄今为止，世界上所说或所做的大部分事情都应该是短暂的，以至于很快就会消失。它应该保持二十四小时，甚至两倍的时间，但一周不应该足够好，因此会阻止人们继续做其他事情。毫无疑问，英国新闻业的惊人发展，以及我们的学习场所的目的不是培养平庸而不是更高的事实，都是由于我们潜意识中认识到这样一个事实，即检查智力发展的旺盛程度比检查智力发展的旺盛程度更重要。鼓励它。毫无疑问，这就是我们学术机构所做的事情，而且他们做得更有效，因为他们只是在潜意识里这样做。他们认为自己正在促进健康的精神同化和消化，但实际上，他们比胃癌好不了多少。

Let me return, however, to the Erewhonians. Nothing surprised me more than to see the occasional flashes of common sense with which one branch of study or another was lit up, while not a single ray fell upon so many others. I was particularly struck with this on strolling into the Art School of the University. Here I found that the course of study was divided into two branches—the practical and the commercial—no student being permitted to continue his studies in the actual practice of the art he had taken up, unless he made equal progress in its commercial history.
然而，让我回到埃雷洪尼亚人。没有什么比看到常识的偶尔闪现照亮一个或另一个研究分支更让我感到惊讶的了，而其他许多分支却没有一丝光芒落到他们身上。当我走进大学艺术学院时，我对此印象特别深刻。在这里，我发现学习课程分为两个分支——实践和商业——没有学生被允许在他所从事的艺术的实际实践中继续学习，除非他在商业历史上取得了同样的进步。

Thus those who were studying painting were examined at frequent intervals in the prices which all the leading pictures of the last fifty or a hundred years had realised, and in the fluctuations in their values when (as often happened) they had been sold and resold three or four times. The artist, they contend, is a dealer in pictures, and it is as important for him to learn how to adapt his wares to the market, and to know approximately what kind of a picture will fetch how much, as it is for him to be able to paint the picture. This, I suppose, is what the French mean by laying so much stress upon ‘values.’
因此，那些学习绘画的人会定期检查过去五十年或一百年的所有主要画作的价格，以及当它们被出售和转售三年时（经常发生的情况）它们的价值波动。或四次。他们认为，艺术家是画作经销商，对他来说，学习如何使他的作品适应市场、了解什么样的画能卖多少钱对他来说同样重要。能够画出这幅画。我想，这就是法国人如此强调“价值观”的意思。

As regards the city itself, the more I saw the more enchanted I became. I dare not trust myself with any description of the exquisite beauty of the different colleges, and their walks and gardens. Truly in these things alone there must be a hallowing and refining influence which is in itself half an education, and which no amount of error can wholly spoil. I was introduced to many of the Professors, who showed me every hospitality and kindness; nevertheless I could hardly avoid a sort of suspicion that some of those whom I was taken to see had been so long engrossed in their own study of hypothetics that they had become the exact antitheses of the Athenians in the days of St. Paul; for whereas the Athenians spent their lives in nothing save to see and to hear some new thing, there were some here who seemed to devote themselves to the avoidance of every opinion with which they were not perfectly familiar, and regarded their own brains as a sort of sanctuary, to which if an opinion had once resorted, none other was to attack it.
至于这座城市本身，我看得越多，就越着迷。我不敢相信自己能够描述不同学院及其步道和花园的精致之美。确实，仅在这些事情上就一定有一种神圣而精炼的影响力，这种影响力本身就是半种教育，任何错误都不能完全破坏这种影响力。我被介绍给了许多教授，他们对我表现出热情好客和友善。然而，我很难避免一种怀疑，即我被带去见的一些人长期专注于自己的假设研究，以至于他们已经成为圣保罗时代雅典人的对立面。因为，雅典人除了看到和听到一些新事物之外，就度过了他们的一生，而这里有些人似乎致力于避免他们不完全熟悉的每一种观点，并认为自己的大脑是一种庇护所，一旦有意见诉诸于此，就没有其他人会攻击它。

I should warn the reader, however, that I was rarely sure what the men whom I met while staying with Mr. Thims really meant; for there was no getting anything out of them if they scented even a suspicion that they might be what they call ‘giving themselves away.’ As there is hardly any subject on which this suspicion cannot arise, I found it difficult to get definite opinions from any of them, except on such subjects as the weather, eating and drinking, holiday excursions, or games of skill.
然而，我应该警告读者，我很少确定我和蒂姆斯先生住在一起时遇到的那些人的真正含义是什么；因为如果他们察觉到自己可能是所谓的“出卖自己”，那么他们就无法从他们身上得到任何信息。由于几乎没有任何主题不会产生这种怀疑，我发现很难从他们那里得到明确的意见。其中任何一个，除了天气、饮食、假期旅行或技巧游戏等主题。

If they cannot wriggle out of expressing an opinion of some sort, they will commonly retail those of some one who has already written upon the subject, and conclude by saying that though they quite admit that there is an element of truth in what the writer has said, there are many points on which they are unable to agree with him. Which these points were, I invariably found myself unable to determine; indeed, it seemed to be counted the perfection of scholarship and good breeding among them not to have—much less to express—an opinion on any subject on which it might prove later that they had been mistaken. The art of sitting gracefully on a fence has never, I should think, been brought to greater perfection than at the Erewhonian Colleges of Unreason.
如果他们无法避免表达某种观点，他们通常会转述已经写过该主题的人的观点，并得出结论说，尽管他们非常承认作者所写的内容有一定的真实性。说，有很多观点他们无法同意他的观点。我总是发现自己无法确定这些要点是什么。事实上，他们似乎拥有完美的学识和良好的教养，对任何问题不持有任何意见，更不用说表达意见，而这些意见后来可能会证明他们是错误的。我认为，优雅地坐在栅栏上的艺术从来没有像埃雷洪尼亚非理性学院那样达到如此完美的程度。

Even when, wriggle as they may, they find themselves pinned down to some expression of definite opinion, as often as not they will argue in support of what they perfectly well know to be untrue. I repeatedly met with reviews and articles even in their best journals, between the lines of which I had little difficulty in detecting a sense exactly contrary to the one ostensibly put forward. So well is this understood, that a man must be a mere tyro in the arts of Erewhonian polite society, unless he instinctively suspects a hidden ‘yea’ in every ‘nay’ that meets him. Granted that it comes to much the same in the end, for it does not matter whether ‘yea’ is called ‘yea’ or ‘nay,’ so long as it is understood which it is to be; but our own more direct way of calling a spade a spade, rather than a rake, with the intention that every one should understand it as a spade, seems more satisfactory. On the other hand, the Erewhonian system lends itself better to the suppression of that downrightness which it seems the express aim of Erewhonian philosophy to discountenance.
即使他们竭尽全力，发现自己只能表达某种明确的观点，但他们常常会争论支持他们明知不真实的观点。我多次遇到评论和文章，甚至是在他们最好的期刊上，我毫不费力地在它们的字里行间中发现了一种与表面上提出的完全相反的感觉。人们对这一点的理解如此透彻，以至于一个人在埃雷洪尼亚上流社会的艺术中必定只是一个新手，除非他本能地怀疑在他遇到的每一个“不”中都隐藏着一个“是”。诚然，最终的结果大致相同，因为“是”被称为“是”还是“否”并不重要，只要它被理解为“是”就可以了。但我们自己更直接的称呼黑桃是黑桃的方式，而不是耙子，目的是让每个人都应该将其理解为黑桃，似乎更令人满意。另一方面，埃雷洪主义体系更适合抑制那种直截了当的行为，而这种直率似乎是埃雷洪主义哲学的明确目标，不予理睬。

However this may be, the fear-of-giving-themselves-away disease was fatal to the intelligence of those infected by it, and almost every one at the Colleges of Unreason had caught it to a greater or less degree. After a few years atrophy of the opinions invariably supervened, and the sufferer became stone dead to everything except the more superficial aspects of those material objects with which he came most in contact. The expression on the faces of these people was repellent; they did not, however, seem particularly unhappy, for they none of them had the faintest idea that they were in reality more dead than alive. No cure for this disgusting fear- of-giving-themselves-away disease has yet been discovered.
不管情况如何，害怕暴露自己的疾病对于感染者的智力来说是致命的，几乎非理性学院的每个人都或多或少地感染了这种疾病。几年之后，观念必然随之萎缩，患者对一切都变得死气沉沉，除了他最常接触的那些物质对象的更肤浅的方面。这些人脸上的表情都令人厌恶。然而，他们似乎并没有特别不高兴，因为他们中没有一个人丝毫不知道自己实际上已经死了，而不是活着。对于这种令人厌恶的“害怕暴露自己的疾病”，目前还没有找到治愈方法。

* * *

It was during my stay in City of the Colleges of Unreason—a city whose Erewhonian name is so cacophonous that I refrain from giving it—that I learned the particulars of the revolution which had ended in the destruction of so many of the mechanical inventions which were formerly in common use.
正是在我在非理性学院之城逗留期间——这座城市的埃雷洪尼亚语名字如此刺耳，以至于我没有说出它——我了解到了这场革命的细节，这场革命最终导致了许多机械发明的毁灭。以前很常用。

Mr. Thims took me to the rooms of a gentleman who had a great reputation for learning, but who was also, so Mr. Thims told me, rather a dangerous person, inasmuch as he had attempted to introduce an adverb into the hypothetical language. He had heard of my watch and been exceedingly anxious to see me, for he was accounted the most learned antiquary in Erewhon on the subject of mechanical lore. We fell to talking upon the subject, and when I left he gave me a reprinted copy of the work which brought the revolution about.
蒂姆斯先生带我去了一位绅士的房间，这位绅士在学问上享有很高的声誉，但蒂姆斯先生告诉我，他也是一个相当危险的人，因为他试图在假设的语言中引入一个副词。他听说过我的手表，并且非常渴望见到我，因为他被认为是埃雷洪在机械知识方面最博学的古董家。我们开始谈论这个话题，当我离开时，他给了我一本引发革命的著作的重印本。

It had taken place some five hundred years before my arrival: people had long become thoroughly used to the change, although at the time that it was made the country was plunged into the deepest misery, and a reaction which followed had very nearly proved successful. Civil war raged for many years, and is said to have reduced the number of the inhabitants by one-half. The parties were styled the machinists and the anti-machinists, and in the end, as I have said already, the latter got the victory, treating their opponents with such unparalleled severity that they extirpated every trace of opposition.
它发生在我到达之前大约五百年：人们早已完全习惯了这种变化，尽管当时国家正陷入最深的苦难，随后的反应几乎被证明是成功的。内战持续多年，据说居民人数减少了一半。两党被称为机械主义者和反机械主义者，最后，正如我已经说过的，后者取得了胜利，他们以无与伦比的严厉态度对待他们的对手，以至于消灭了一切反对派。

The wonder was that they allowed any mechanical appliances to remain in the kingdom, neither do I believe that they would have done so, had not the Professors of Inconsistency and Evasion made a stand against the carrying of the new principles to their legitimate conclusions. These Professors, moreover, insisted that during the struggle the anti-machinists should use every known improvement in the art of war, and several new weapons, offensive and defensive, were invented, while it was in progress. I was surprised at there remaining so many mechanical specimens as are seen in the museums, and at students having rediscovered their past uses so completely; for at the time of the revolution the victors wrecked all the more complicated machines, and burned all treatises on mechanics, and all engineers’ workshops—thus, so they thought, cutting the mischief out root and branch, at an incalculable cost of blood and treasure.
令人惊奇的是，他们允许任何机械设备留在王国里，我也不相信他们会这样做，如果没有不一致和逃避的教授们反对将新原则带入他们的合法结论。此外，这些教授坚持认为，在斗争中，反机械主义者应该利用战争艺术中一切已知的改进，并在战争进行过程中发明了几种进攻性和防御性的新武器。我很惊讶博物馆里还保留着如此多的机械标本，学生们如此彻底地重新发现了它们过去的用途；这让我感到惊讶。因为在革命时期，胜利者毁坏了所有更复杂的机器，烧毁了所有机械论文和所有工程师的工作室——因此，他们认为，要彻底消灭恶作剧，付出了无法估量的鲜血和代价。宝藏。

Certainly they had not spared their labour, but work of this description can never be perfectly achieved, and when, some two hundred years before my arrival, all passion upon the subject had cooled down, and no one save a lunatic would have dreamed of reintroducing forbidden inventions, the subject came to be regarded as a curious antiquarian study, like that of some long-forgotten religious practices among ourselves. Then came the careful search for whatever fragments could be found, and for any machines that might have been hidden away, and also numberless treatises were written, showing what the functions of each rediscovered machine had been; all being done with no idea of using such machinery again, but with the feelings of an English antiquarian concerning Druidical monuments or flint arrow heads.
他们当然不遗余力，但是这种描述的工作永远不可能完美地完成，在我到达之前大约两百年，对这个主题的所有热情都已经冷却下来，除了疯子之外没有人会梦想重新引入被禁止的发明，这个主题逐渐被视为一项奇怪的古物研究，就像我们之间一些长期被遗忘的宗教活动一样。随后，人们开始仔细搜寻能找到的碎片，以及可能被隐藏起来的机器，并撰写了无数的论文，展示了每台重新发现的机器的功能；所有这一切都是在没有再次使用这种机器的想法的情况下完成的，而是带着英国古物学家对德鲁伊纪念碑或燧石箭头的感觉。

On my return to the metropolis, during the remaining weeks or rather days of my sojourn in Erewhon I made a resume in English of the work which brought about the already mentioned revolution. My ignorance of technical terms has led me doubtless into many errors, and I have occasionally, where I found translation impossible, substituted purely English names and ideas for the original Erewhonian ones, but the reader may rely on my general accuracy. I have thought it best to insert my translation here.
回到大都市后，在埃里洪逗留的剩余几周或更确切地说几天内，我用英语写了一份导致前面提到的革命的工作简历。我对技术术语的无知无疑使我犯了许多错误，有时，当我发现翻译不可能时，我会用纯英文的名称和想法替换原来的埃鲁洪语名称和想法，但读者可以相信我的总体准确性。我认为最好在这里插入我的翻译。

CHAPTER XXIII: THE BOOK OF THE MACHINES
第二十三章：机器之书

The writer commences:- ‘There was a time, when the earth was to all appearance utterly destitute both of animal and vegetable life, and when according to the opinion of our best philosophers it was simply a hot round ball with a crust gradually cooling. Now if a human being had existed while the earth was in this state and had been allowed to see it as though it were some other world with which he had no concern, and if at the same time he were entirely ignorant of all physical science, would he not have pronounced it impossible that creatures possessed of anything like consciousness should be evolved from the seeming cinder which he was beholding? Would he not have denied that it contained any potentiality of consciousness? Yet in the course of time consciousness came. Is it not possible then that there may be even yet new channels dug out for consciousness, though we can detect no signs of them at present?
作者开始写道：“曾经有一段时间，地球表面上完全没有动物和植物的生命，根据我们最优秀的哲学家的观点，地球只是一个热圆球，地壳逐渐冷却。现在，如果一个人类在地球处于这种状态时就已经存在，并且被允许看到它，就好像这是一个他不关心的另一个世界，如果同时他对所有物理科学一无所知，难道他不会宣称拥有意识之类的生物不可能从他所看到的看似煤渣中进化而来吗？难道他不会否认它含有意识的潜力吗？然而随着时间的推移，意识出现了。那么，尽管我们目前还没有发现任何迹象，但有没有可能为意识挖掘出新的通道？

‘Again. Consciousness, in anything like the present acceptation of the term, having been once a new thing—a thing, as far as we can see, subsequent even to an individual centre of action and to a reproductive system (which we see existing in plants without apparent consciousness)—why may not there arise some new phase of mind which shall be as different from all present known phases, as the mind of animals is from that of vegetables?
'再次。意识，就像目前对该术语的接受一样，曾经是一个新事物——就我们所知，它甚至是继个体行动中心和生殖系统之后的事物（我们在植物中看到它存在于没有明显的意识）——为什么不能出现某种新的心智阶段，它与所有目前已知的阶段都不同，就像动物的心智与植物的心智不同一样？

‘It would be absurd to attempt to define such a mental state (or whatever it may be called), inasmuch as it must be something so foreign to man that his experience can give him no help towards conceiving its nature; but surely when we reflect upon the manifold phases of life and consciousness which have been evolved already, it would be rash to say that no others can be developed, and that animal life is the end of all things. There was a time when fire was the end of all things: another when rocks and water were so.’
“试图定义这样一种精神状态（或者无论它被称为什么）是荒谬的，因为它对人类来说一定是一种陌生的东西，以至于他的经验无法帮助他理解它的本质；但可以肯定的是，当我们反思生命和意识已经进化的多个阶段时，说没有其他阶段可以发展，而动物生命是万物的终结，那就太草率了。曾经有一段时间，火是万物的终结；另一段时间，岩石和水也是如此。

The writer, after enlarging on the above for several pages, proceeded to inquire whether traces of the approach of such a new phase of life could be perceived at present; whether we could see any tenements preparing which might in a remote futurity be adapted for it; whether, in fact, the primordial cell of such a kind of life could be now detected upon earth. In the course of his work he answered this question in the affirmative and pointed to the higher machines.
笔者将上述内容放大了几页后，继续询问目前是否能察觉到这样一个新的生活阶段即将到来的痕迹？我们是否可以看到任何在遥远的将来可以适应它的公寓；事实上，现在是否可以在地球上检测到这种生命的原始细胞。在他的工作过程中，他对这个问题做出了肯定的回答，并指出了更高的机器。

‘There is no security’—to quote his own words—‘against the ultimate development of mechanical consciousness, in the fact of machines possessing little consciousness now. A mollusc has not much consciousness. Reflect upon the extraordinary advance which machines have made during the last few hundred years, and note how slowly the animal and vegetable kingdoms are advancing. The more highly organised machines are creatures not so much of yesterday, as of the last five minutes, so to speak, in comparison with past time. Assume for the sake of argument that conscious beings have existed for some twenty million years: see what strides machines have made in the last thousand! May not the world last twenty million years longer? If so, what will they not in the end become? Is it not safer to nip the mischief in the bud and to forbid them further progress?
引用他自己的话说，“机械意识的最终发展是没有保障的，事实上机器现在几乎没有意识”。软体动物没有太多意识。反思一下机器在过去几百年中所取得的非凡进步，并注意动物和植物王国的进步是多么缓慢。与过去的时间相比，组织性更强的机器与其说是昨天的生物，不如说是最后五分钟的生物。为了便于论证，假设有意识的生物已经存在了大约两千万年：看看机器在过去的一千年里取得了多大的进步！难道世界不能再延长两千万年吗？如果是的话，他们最终不会变成什么？将恶作剧消灭在萌芽状态并禁止他们进一步发展不是更安全吗？

‘But who can say that the vapour engine has not a kind of consciousness? Where does consciousness begin, and where end? Who can draw the line? Who can draw any line? Is not everything interwoven with everything? Is not machinery linked with animal life in an infinite variety of ways? The shell of a hen’s egg is made of a delicate white ware and is a machine as much as an egg- cup is: the shell is a device for holding the egg, as much as the egg-cup for holding the shell: both are phases of the same function; the hen makes the shell in her inside, but it is pure pottery. She makes her nest outside of herself for convenience’ sake, but the nest is not more of a machine than the egg-shell is. A ‘machine’ is only a ‘device.’’
‘但谁能说蒸汽机没有一种意识呢？意识从哪里开始，又在哪里结束？谁能划清界限？谁能画出一条线？万物不都是相互交织的吗？机器不是以无数种方式与动物的生命联系在一起吗？鸡蛋的壳是用精致的白色器皿制成的，它就像蛋杯一样是一台机器：鸡蛋壳是盛放鸡蛋的装置，就像盛放蛋壳的蛋杯一样：两者都是相同功能的阶段；母鸡在她的体内做壳，但它是纯陶器。为了方便起见，她在自己外面筑巢，但这个巢并不比蛋壳更像是一台机器。 ‘机器’只是‘设备’。”

Then returning to consciousness, and endeavouring to detect its earliest manifestations, the writer continued:-
然后回到意识，并努力发现其最早的表现，作者继续说道：

‘There is a kind of plant that eats organic food with its flowers: when a fly settles upon the blossom, the petals close upon it and hold it fast till the plant has absorbed the insect into its system; but they will close on nothing but what is good to eat; of a drop of rain or a piece of stick they will take no notice. Curious! that so unconscious a thing should have such a keen eye to its own interest. If this is unconsciousness, where is the use of consciousness?
“有一种植物用它的花吃有机食物：当一只苍蝇停在花上时，花瓣会靠近它并紧紧抓住它，直到植物将昆虫吸收到它的系统中;但他们只吃好吃的东西；一滴雨或一根棍子，他们不会注意到。好奇的！如此无意识的事物竟然对自己的利益有如此敏锐的洞察力。如果这就是无意识，那意识又有什么用呢？

‘Shall we say that the plant does not know what it is doing merely because it has no eyes, or ears, or brains? If we say that it acts mechanically, and mechanically only, shall we not be forced to admit that sundry other and apparently very deliberate actions are also mechanical? If it seems to us that the plant kills and eats a fly mechanically, may it not seem to the plant that a man must kill and eat a sheep mechanically?
“我们是否可以说，植物不知道自己在做什么，仅仅是因为它没有眼睛、耳朵或大脑？”如果我们说它是机械地起作用，并且只是机械地起作用，那么我们难道不应该被迫承认其他各种明显非常刻意的行为也是机械的吗？如果在我们看来，植物机械地杀死并吃掉一只苍蝇，那么在植物看来，人是否必须机械地杀死并吃掉一只羊呢？

‘But it may be said that the plant is void of reason, because the growth of a plant is an involuntary growth. Given earth, air, and due temperature, the plant must grow: it is like a clock, which being once wound up will go till it is stopped or run down: it is like the wind blowing on the sails of a ship—the ship must go when the wind blows it. But can a healthy boy help growing if he have good meat and drink and clothing? can anything help going as long as it is wound up, or go on after it is run down? Is there not a winding up process everywhere?
‘但是可以说，植物是没有理性的，因为植物的生长是一种非自愿的生长。给定土壤、空气和适当的温度，植物必须生长：它就像一个时钟，一旦上紧发条就会一直走下去，直到停止或走完：就像吹在船帆上的风——船风一吹就必须走。但一个健康的男孩，吃好喝好穿，就能帮助成长吗？只要上紧发条，有什么东西可以帮助它继续运转，或者在它耗尽后继续运转吗？不是到处都有清算程序吗？

‘Even a potato {5} in a dark cellar has a certain low cunning about him which serves him in excellent stead. He knows perfectly well what he wants and how to get it. He sees the light coming from the cellar window and sends his shoots crawling straight thereto: they will crawl along the floor and up the wall and out at the cellar window; if there be a little earth anywhere on the journey he will find it and use it for his own ends. What deliberation he may exercise in the matter of his roots when he is planted in the earth is a thing unknown to us, but we can imagine him saying, ‘I will have a tuber here and a tuber there, and I will suck whatsoever advantage I can from all my surroundings. This neighbour I will overshadow, and that I will undermine; and what I can do shall be the limit of what I will do. He that is stronger and better placed than I shall overcome me, and him that is weaker I will overcome.’
“即使是在黑暗地窖里的土豆{5}也有一定的狡猾之处，这对他很有帮助。他非常清楚自己想要什么以及如何得到它。他看到从地窖窗户射出的光，然后让他的芽径直爬向那里：它们会沿着地板爬行，爬上墙壁，最后从地窖窗户爬出来；如果旅途中任何地方有一点泥土，他都会找到它并利用它来达到自己的目的。当他被种在土里时，他会对他的根问题进行怎样的深思熟虑，这是我们不知道的事情，但我们可以想象他说：“我将在这里有一个块茎，在那里有一个块茎，我将吸收任何优势我可以从我周围的所有地方。我将遮盖这个邻居，我将破坏他；我能做的就是我要做的极限。比我更强、地位更好的人将战胜我，比我更弱的人我将战胜他。

‘The potato says these things by doing them, which is the best of languages. What is consciousness if this is not consciousness? We find it difficult to sympathise with the emotions of a potato; so we do with those of an oyster. Neither of these things makes a noise on being boiled or opened, and noise appeals to us more strongly than anything else, because we make so much about our own sufferings. Since, then, they do not annoy us by any expression of pain we call them emotionless; and so qua mankind they are; but mankind is not everybody.
“土豆通过做事来表达这些事情，这是最好的语言。如果这不是意识，那什么是意识呢？我们发现很难同情土豆的情感；我们对牡蛎也是如此。这些东西在煮沸或打开时都不会发出噪音，而噪音对我们的吸引力比其他任何东西都更强烈，因为我们对自己的痛苦看得太多。既然如此，他们不会因任何痛苦的表达而惹恼我们，我们称他们为无感情的人。他们也是人类；但人类并不是所有人。

If it be urged that the action of the potato is chemical and mechanical only, and that it is due to the chemical and mechanical effects of light and heat, the answer would seem to lie in an inquiry whether every sensation is not chemical and mechanical in its operation? whether those things which we deem most purely spiritual are anything but disturbances of equilibrium in an infinite series of levers, beginning with those that are too small for microscopic detection, and going up to the human arm and the appliances which it makes use of? whether there be not a molecular action of thought, whence a dynamical theory of the passions shall be deducible? Whether strictly speaking we should not ask what kind of levers a man is made of rather than what is his temperament? How are they balanced? How much of such and such will it take to weigh them down so as to make him do so and so?’
如果有人主张马铃薯的作用只是化学和机械作用，并且是由于光和热的化学和机械效应造成的，那么答案似乎在于询问是否每种感觉都不是化学和机械作用的。它的运作？那些我们认为最纯粹的精神事物是否只是无限系列杠杆中平衡的扰动，从那些太小而无法用显微镜检测到的杠杆开始，一直到人类的手臂及其使用的器具？是否不存在思想的分子行为，由此可以演绎出激情的动力理论？严格来说，我们是否不应该问一个人是由什么杠杆组成的，而不是问他的气质是什么？它们如何平衡？需要多少这样那样的事情才能压垮他们，让他这样做呢？

The writer went on to say that he anticipated a time when it would be possible, by examining a single hair with a powerful microscope, to know whether its owner could be insulted with impunity. He then became more and more obscure, so that I was obliged to give up all attempt at translation; neither did I follow the drift of his argument. On coming to the next part which I could construe, I found that he had changed his ground.
作者接着说，他预计有一天，通过用强大的显微镜检查一根头发，就可以知道它的主人是否会受到侮辱而不受惩罚。后来他变得越来越晦涩难懂，我不得不放弃所有翻译的尝试。我也不明白他的论点的主旨。到了我可以解释的下一部分时，我发现他改变了立场。

‘Either,’ he proceeds, ‘a great deal of action that has been called purely mechanical and unconscious must be admitted to contain more elements of consciousness than has been allowed hitherto (and in this case germs of consciousness will be found in many actions of the higher machines)—Or (assuming the theory of evolution but at the same time denying the consciousness of vegetable and crystalline action) the race of man has descended from things which had no consciousness at all. In this case there is no a priori improbability in the descent of conscious (and more than conscious) machines from those which now exist, except that which is suggested by the apparent absence of anything like a reproductive system in the mechanical kingdom. This absence however is only apparent, as I shall presently show.
“或者，”他继续说道，“必须承认，大量被称为纯粹机械和无意识的行为包含了比迄今为止所允许的更多的意识元素（在这种情况下，意识的萌芽将在许多行为中被发现）更高的机器）——或者（假设进化论，但同时否认植物和晶体行为的意识）人类是从根本没有意识的事物中进化而来的。在这种情况下，除了机械王国中明显不存在生殖系统之类的东西所暗示的之外，有意识的（并且不仅仅是有意识的）机器从现在存在的机器中进化出来并不存在先验的可能性。然而，正如我接下来将要展示的那样，这种缺席只是明显的。

‘Do not let me be misunderstood as living in fear of any actually existing machine; there is probably no known machine which is more than a prototype of future mechanical life. The present machines are to the future as the early Saurians to man. The largest of them will probably greatly diminish in size. Some of the lowest vertebrate attained a much greater bulk than has descended to their more highly organised living representatives, and in like manner a diminution in the size of machines has often attended their development and progress.
“不要让我被误解为生活在对任何实际存在的机器的恐惧之中；可能没有任何已知的机器比未来机械寿命的原型更重要。现在的机器之于未来，就像早期蜥蜴之于人类一样。其中最大的一个可能会大大缩小。一些最低等的脊椎动物的体型比它们组织更严密的现存脊椎动物的体型要大得多，同样地，它们的发展和进步往往伴随着机器尺寸的缩小。

‘Take the watch, for example; examine its beautiful structure; observe the intelligent play of the minute members which compose it: yet this little creature is but a development of the cumbrous clocks that preceded it; it is no deterioration from them. A day may come when clocks, which certainly at the present time are not diminishing in bulk, will be superseded owing to the universal use of watches, in which case they will become as extinct as ichthyosauri, while the watch, whose tendency has for some years been to decrease in size rather than the contrary, will remain the only existing type of an extinct race.
“以手表为例；检查其美丽的结构；观察组成它的微小成员的智能游戏：然而，这个小生物只不过是之前笨重的时钟的发展；它们并没有恶化。有一天，钟表的体积肯定不会减少，但由于手表的普遍使用，钟表将被取代，在这种情况下，它们将像鱼龙一样灭绝，而钟表的趋势对某些人来说已经灭绝了。多年来，体型不断缩小而不是相反，将仍然是灭绝种族的唯一存在类型。

‘But returning to the argument, I would repeat that I fear none of the existing machines; what I fear is the extraordinary rapidity with which they are becoming something very different to what they are at present. No class of beings have in any time past made so rapid a movement forward. Should not that movement be jealously watched, and checked while we can still check it? And is it not necessary for this end to destroy the more advanced of the machines which are in use at present, though it is admitted that they are in themselves harmless?
“但是回到这个论点，我要再说一遍，我不害怕任何现有的机器；我担心的是他们正在以惊人的速度变得与现在截然不同。过去任何时期都没有任何一类生物能够如此迅速地前进。难道不应该在我们还能检查的时候，嫉妒地观察和检查它吗？尽管我们承认目前正在使用的更先进的机器本身是无害的，但为此目的是否没有必要摧毁它们？

‘As yet the machines receive their impressions through the agency of man’s senses: one travelling machine calls to another in a shrill accent of alarm and the other instantly retires; but it is through the ears of the driver that the voice of the one has acted upon the other. Had there been no driver, the callee would have been deaf to the caller. There was a time when it must have seemed highly improbable that machines should learn to make their wants known by sound, even through the ears of man; may we not conceive, then, that a day will come when those ears will be no longer needed, and the hearing will be done by the delicacy of the machine’s own construction?—when its language shall have been developed from the cry of animals to a speech as intricate as our own?
“到目前为止，机器通过人类感官接收印象：一台行驶的机器以尖锐的警报声呼叫另一台机器，另一台立即退出；但一个人的声音是通过司机的耳朵传到另一个人身上的。如果没有司机，被叫者就会对呼叫者充耳不闻。曾经有一段时间，机器学会通过声音，甚至是通过人的耳朵来表达自己的需求，这似乎是极不可能的。那么，我们是否可以想象，有一天，我们将不再需要这些耳朵，而听觉将由机器本身的精致结构来完成？——那时它的语言将从动物的叫声发展为人类的叫声。像我们自己的演讲一样复杂？

‘It is possible that by that time children will learn the differential calculus—as they learn now to speak—from their mothers and nurses, or that they may talk in the hypothetical language, and work rule of three sums, as soon as they are born; but this is not probable; we cannot calculate on any corresponding advance in man’s intellectual or physical powers which shall be a set-off against the far greater development which seems in store for the machines. Some people may say that man’s moral influence will suffice to rule them; but I cannot think it will ever be safe to repose much trust in the moral sense of any machine.
“到那时，孩子们可能会从他们的母亲和护士那里学习微积分——就像他们现在学习说话一样，或者他们可能会用假设的语言说话，以及三和的工作规则，一旦他们学会了出生；但这是不可能的；我们无法计算出人类智力或体力的任何相应进步，这将抵消机器似乎即将取得的更大发展。有些人可能会说，人的道德影响足以统治他们；但我认为对任何机器的道德感抱有很大的信任永远不会是安全的。

‘Again, might not the glory of the machines consist in their being without this same boasted gift of language? ‘Silence,’ it has been said by one writer, ‘is a virtue which renders us agreeable to our fellow-creatures.’’
“再说一次，机器的荣耀难道不就在于它们没有同样自夸的语言天赋吗？”一位作家曾说过，“沉默是一种美德，它使我们能够与同胞相处融洽。”

CHAPTER XXIV: THE MACHINES—continued
第二十四章：机器——续

‘But other questions come upon us. What is a man’s eye but a machine for the little creature that sits behind in his brain to look through? A dead eye is nearly as good as a living one for some time after the man is dead. It is not the eye that cannot see, but the restless one that cannot see through it. Is it man’s eyes, or is it the big seeing-engine which has revealed to us the existence of worlds beyond worlds into infinity? What has made man familiar with the scenery of the moon, the spots on the sun, or the geography of the planets? He is at the mercy of the seeing-engine for these things, and is powerless unless he tack it on to his own identity, and make it part and parcel of himself. Or, again, is it the eye, or the little see-engine, which has shown us the existence of infinitely minute organisms which swarm unsuspected around us?
“但是我们还面临着其他问题。人的眼睛除了是一个供大脑后面的小生物观察的机器之外，还能算什么呢？在人死后的一段时间内，死眼几乎与活眼一样好。不是眼睛看不见，而是不安的眼睛看不透。是人的眼睛，还是巨大的视觉引擎向我们揭示了超越世界、进入无限的世界的存在？是什么让人类熟悉月球的风景、太阳的斑点或行星的地理？他受到这些事物的视觉引擎的摆布，并且无能为力，除非他将其附加到他自己的身份上，并使其成为他自己的一部分。或者，是眼睛，还是小小的视觉引擎，向我们展示了无限微小的有机体的存在，这些有机体毫无防备地聚集在我们周围？

‘And take man’s vaunted power of calculation. Have we not engines which can do all manner of sums more quickly and correctly than we can? What prizeman in Hypothetics at any of our Colleges of Unreason can compare with some of these machines in their own line? In fact, wherever precision is required man flies to the machine at once, as far preferable to himself. Our sum-engines never drop a figure, nor our looms a stitch; the machine is brisk and active, when the man is weary; it is clear-headed and collected, when the man is stupid and dull; it needs no slumber, when man must sleep or drop; ever at its post, ever ready for work, its alacrity never flags, its patience never gives in; its might is stronger than combined hundreds, and swifter than the flight of birds; it can burrow beneath the earth, and walk upon the largest rivers and sink not. This is the green tree; what then shall be done in the dry?
'还有人类引以为傲的计算能力。我们难道没有比我们更快、更正确地完成各种计算的引擎吗？我们任何非理性学院的假设学获奖者有哪一个可以与他们自己的系列中的一些机器相比呢？事实上，只要是需要精确度的地方，人们都会立即飞向机器，这比他自己要好得多。我们的求和引擎从不掉下一个数字，我们的织布机也从不落下一针；当人疲倦时，机器轻快而活跃；当一个人愚蠢而迟钝时，他头脑清醒，镇定自若。当人必须睡觉或倒下时，它不需要睡觉；永远在岗位上，永远准备好工作，它的敏捷性永不减退，它的耐心永不屈服；其威力胜于百人之和，迅捷于百鸟之飞。它可以在地下挖洞，在最大的河流上行走而不沉没。这就是绿树；那么在干燥的时候该怎么办呢？

‘Who shall say that a man does see or hear? He is such a hive and swarm of parasites that it is doubtful whether his body is not more theirs than his, and whether he is anything but another kind of ant-heap after all. May not man himself become a sort of parasite upon the machines? An affectionate machine-tickling aphid?
‘谁能说一个人确实看到或听到了呢？他是一群寄生虫，令人怀疑他的身体是否不属于他们，也不属于他，而他到底是否只是另一种蚂蚁堆。人自己难道不会成为机器上的寄生虫吗？一只深情的机器搔痒蚜虫？

‘It is said by some that our blood is composed of infinite living agents which go up and down the highways and byways of our bodies as people in the streets of a city. When we look down from a high place upon crowded thoroughfares, is it possible not to think of corpuscles of blood travelling through veins and nourishing the heart of the town? No mention shall be made of sewers, nor of the hidden nerves which serve to communicate sensations from one part of the town’s body to another; nor of the yawning jaws of the railway stations, whereby the circulation is carried directly into the heart,—which receive the venous lines, and disgorge the arterial, with an eternal pulse of people. And the sleep of the town, how life-like! with its change in the circulation.’
“有人说，我们的血液是由无限的活性物质组成的，它们就像城市街道上的人们一样，在我们身体的高速公路和小路上来回流动。当我们从高处俯视人潮拥挤的大街时，是否能不想起血液在血管中流动，滋养着这座城市的心脏？不会提及下水道，也不会提及隐藏的神经，这些神经用于将城镇身体的一个部分的感觉传达到另一个部分；也不像火车站张开的大口，血液循环直接进入心脏，心脏接收静脉线路，排出动脉，伴随着人们永恒的脉搏。还有小镇的睡眠，多么有生活气息啊！随着流通的变化。

Here the writer became again so hopelessly obscure that I was obliged to miss several pages. He resumed:-
在这里，作者再次变得如此晦涩难懂，以至于我不得不漏掉几页。他继续说道：-

‘It can be answered that even though machines should hear never so well and speak never so wisely, they will still always do the one or the other for our advantage, not their own; that man will be the ruling spirit and the machine the servant; that as soon as a machine fails to discharge the service which man expects from it, it is doomed to extinction; that the machines stand to man simply in the relation of lower animals, the vapour-engine itself being only a more economical kind of horse; so that instead of being likely to be developed into a higher kind of life than man’s, they owe their very existence and progress to their power of ministering to human wants, and must therefore both now and ever be man’s inferiors.
“可以回答的是，即使机器听得再好，说话也再聪明，它们仍然会为了我们的利益而不是它们自己的利益而这样做或另一种；人将成为统治者，机器将成为仆人；一旦机器无法履行人类所期望的服务，它就注定要灭绝；机器与人类的关系只是低等动物，蒸汽机本身只是一种更经济的马；因此，它们不可能发展成为比人类更高级的生命，而是将它们的存在和进步归功于它们满足人类需求的能力，因此现在和永远都必须低于人类。

‘This is all very well. But the servant glides by imperceptible approaches into the master; and we have come to such a pass that, even now, man must suffer terribly on ceasing to benefit the machines. If all machines were to be annihilated at one moment, so that not a knife nor lever nor rag of clothing nor anything whatsoever were left to man but his bare body alone that he was born with, and if all knowledge of mechanical laws were taken from him so that he could make no more machines, and all machine-made food destroyed so that the race of man should be left as it were naked upon a desert island, we should become extinct in six weeks. A few miserable individuals might linger, but even these in a year or two would become worse than monkeys. Man’s very soul is due to the machines; it is a machine-made thing: he thinks as he thinks, and feels as he feels, through the work that machines have wrought upon him, and their existence is quite as much a sine qua non for his, as his for theirs. This fact precludes us from proposing the complete annihilation of machinery, but surely it indicates that we should destroy as many of them as we can possibly dispense with, lest they should tyrannise over us even more completely.
‘这一切都很好。但仆人却不知不觉地接近了主人。我们已经到了这样的地步，即使是现在，人类也必须因停止造福机器而遭受可怕的痛苦。如果所有的机器都在同一时刻被消灭，那么人类就只剩下他与生俱来的赤裸身体，而没有留下一把刀、杠杆、破布或任何东西，如果所有机械定律的知识都来自于人类如果他不再制造机器，所有机器制造的食物都会被毁掉，人类就会赤身裸体地被留在荒岛上，我们将在六周内灭绝。一些悲惨的人可能会留下来，但即使是这些人在一两年内也会变得比猴子更糟糕。人的灵魂在于机器；这是一个机器制造的东西：通过机器对他所做的工作，他思考他的想法，感受他的感受，机器的存在对于他来说是一个必要条件，正如他对于他们的存在一样。这一事实使我们无法提出彻底消灭机器的建议，但它无疑表明我们应该尽可能多地消灭机器，以免它们更彻底地对我们施暴。

‘True, from a low materialistic point of view, it would seem that those thrive best who use machinery wherever its use is possible with profit; but this is the art of the machines—they serve that they may rule. They bear no malice towards man for destroying a whole race of them provided he creates a better instead; on the contrary, they reward him liberally for having hastened their development. It is for neglecting them that he incurs their wrath, or for using inferior machines, or for not making sufficient exertions to invent new ones, or for destroying them without replacing them; yet these are the very things we ought to do, and do quickly; for though our rebellion against their infant power will cause infinite suffering, what will not things come to, if that rebellion is delayed?
“确实，从低物质主义的角度来看，那些在任何可能获利的地方使用机器的人似乎会发展得最好；但这就是机器的艺术——它们服务于它们的统治。他们对人类毁灭整个种族并无恶意，只要他创造了更好的种族。相反，他们会因为他加速了他们的发展而慷慨地奖励他。正是因为他忽视了他们，或者因为使用了劣质机器，或者因为没有做出足够的努力来发明新机器，或者因为摧毁了它们而不更换它们，所以他招致了他们的愤怒。然而，这些正是我们应该做的事情，而且应该尽快做；因为虽然我们对他们幼年权力的反抗会造成无限的痛苦，但如果反抗被推迟，事情会不会发生什么呢？

‘They have preyed upon man’s grovelling preference for his material over his spiritual interests, and have betrayed him into supplying that element of struggle and warfare without which no race can advance. The lower animals progress because they struggle with one another; the weaker die, the stronger breed and transmit their strength. The machines being of themselves unable to struggle, have got man to do their struggling for them: as long as he fulfils this function duly, all goes well with him—at least he thinks so; but the moment he fails to do his best for the advancement of machinery by encouraging the good and destroying the bad, he is left behind in the race of competition; and this means that he will be made uncomfortable in a variety of ways, and perhaps die.
“他们利用了人类对物质利益而非精神利益的卑鄙偏好，并背叛了人类，提供了斗争和战争的元素，没有这些元素，任何种族都无法进步。”低等动物之所以进步，是因为它们彼此斗争；弱者死去，强者繁衍并传递力量。机器本身无法进行斗争，所以需要人来替它们进行斗争：只要他适当地履行了这一职责，一切就都顺利了——至少他是这么认为的；但是，一旦他不能尽最大努力促进机器的进步，鼓励善行，消灭恶行，他就会在竞争中被抛在后面。这意味着他会以各种方式感到不舒服，甚至可能会死。

‘So that even now the machines will only serve on condition of being served, and that too upon their own terms; the moment their terms are not complied with, they jib, and either smash both themselves and all whom they can reach, or turn churlish and refuse to work at all. How many men at this hour are living in a state of bondage to the machines? How many spend their whole lives, from the cradle to the grave, in tending them by night and day? Is it not plain that the machines are gaining ground upon us, when we reflect on the increasing number of those who are bound down to them as slaves, and of those who devote their whole souls to the advancement of the mechanical kingdom?
“因此，即使是现在，机器也只有在被服务的条件下才能服务，而且也是按照它们自己的条件；一旦他们的条件没有得到遵守，他们就会逃避，要么毁掉自己，要么毁掉所有他们能接触到的人，要么变得粗鲁，根本拒绝工作。此时此刻，有多少人生活在机器的束缚之中？有多少人从摇篮到坟墓，一生都在日夜照顾他们？当我们想到越来越多的人被机器束缚为奴隶，以及那些将整个灵魂奉献给机械王国的进步的人时，这难道不是很明显吗？

‘The vapour-engine must be fed with food and consume it by fire even as man consumes it; it supports its combustion by air as man supports it; it has a pulse and circulation as man has. It may be granted that man’s body is as yet the more versatile of the two, but then man’s body is an older thing; give the vapour-engine but half the time that man has had, give it also a continuance of our present infatuation, and what may it not ere long attain to?
“蒸汽机必须以食物为食，并用火来消耗它，就像人类消耗它一样；它通过空气支持其燃烧，就像人类支持它一样；它和人类一样有脉搏和循环。可以肯定的是，人类的身体迄今为止是两者中更加多才多艺的一个，但人类的身体是一个更古老的东西；只要给予蒸汽机人类一半的时间，给予它我们目前的迷恋的延续，它很快就会达到什么目的呢？

‘There are certain functions indeed of the vapour-engine which will probably remain unchanged for myriads of years—which in fact will perhaps survive when the use of vapour has been superseded: the piston and cylinder, the beam, the fly-wheel, and other parts of the machine will probably be permanent, just as we see that man and many of the lower animals share like modes of eating, drinking, and sleeping; thus they have hearts which beat as ours, veins and arteries, eyes, ears, and noses; they sigh even in their sleep, and weep and yawn; they are affected by their children; they feel pleasure and pain, hope, fear, anger, shame; they have memory and prescience; they know that if certain things happen to them they will die, and they fear death as much as we do; they communicate their thoughts to one another, and some of them deliberately act in concert. The comparison of similarities is endless: I only make it because some may say that since the vapour-engine is not likely to be improved in the main particulars, it is unlikely to be henceforward extensively modified at all. This is too good to be true: it will be modified and suited for an infinite variety of purposes, as much as man has been modified so as to exceed the brutes in skill.
“蒸汽机的某些功能确实可能会保持数千年不变——事实上，当蒸汽的使用被取代时，这些功能可能会继续存在：活塞和气缸、横梁、飞轮和机器的其他部分可能是永久性的，就像我们看到人类和许多低等动物共享相似的饮食和睡眠模式一样；因此，他们有与我们一样跳动的心脏、静脉和动脉、眼睛、耳朵和鼻子；他们甚至在睡梦中叹息、哭泣、打哈欠；他们受到孩子的影响；他们感受到快乐和痛苦、希望、恐惧、愤怒、羞耻；他们有记忆力和预知力；他们知道，如果某些事情发生在他们身上，他们就会死，而且他们和我们一样害怕死亡；他们互相交流想法，有些人故意一致行动。相似之处的比较是无穷无尽的：我这样做只是因为有些人可能会说，由于蒸汽发动机不太可能在主要细节上得到改进，因此今后根本不可能进行广泛的修改。这好得令人难以置信：它将被修改并适应无数种目的，就像人类被修改以超越野兽一样。

‘In the meantime the stoker is almost as much a cook for his engine as our own cooks for ourselves. Consider also the colliers and pitmen and coal merchants and coal trains, and the men who drive them, and the ships that carry coals—what an army of servants do the machines thus employ! Are there not probably more men engaged in tending machinery than in tending men? Do not machines eat as it were by mannery? Are we not ourselves creating our successors in the supremacy of the earth? daily adding to the beauty and delicacy of their organisation, daily giving them greater skill and supplying more and more of that self-regulating self-acting power which will be better than any intellect?
“与此同时，加油工几乎就像我们自己为自己做饭一样，是他发动机的厨师。还想一想煤矿工人、煤矿工人、煤商、运煤火车、驾驶它们的人和运煤的船——机器雇用了多少仆人啊！从事照料机器的人难道不是比照料人的人多吗？机器吃东西不是很有礼貌吗？难道我们自己不是在创造地球至高无上的继承者吗？每天为他们的组织增添美丽和精致，每天赋予他们更高的技能，并提供越来越多的自我调节自我行动的力量，这会比任何智力都更好吗？

‘What a new thing it is for a machine to feed at all! The plough, the spade, and the cart must eat through man’s stomach; the fuel that sets them going must burn in the furnace of a man or of horses. Man must consume bread and meat or he cannot dig; the bread and meat are the fuel which drive the spade. If a plough be drawn by horses, the power is supplied by grass or beans or oats, which being burnt in the belly of the cattle give the power of working: without this fuel the work would cease, as an engine would stop if its furnaces were to go out.
“对于机器来说，喂食是多么新鲜的事情啊！犁、铲子、车子必须吃人的胃；推动它们前进的燃料必须在人或马的熔炉中燃烧。人必须吃面包和肉，否则就无法挖掘；面包和肉是驱动铲子的燃料。如果犁是用马拉的，动力是由草、豆子或燕麦提供的，这些草、豆子或燕麦在牛的肚子里燃烧，提供工作的动力：没有这种燃料，工作就会停止，就像发动机如果炉子停止运转就会停止一样。我们要出去。

‘A man of science has demonstrated ‘that no animal has the power of originating mechanical energy, but that all the work done in its life by any animal, and all the heat that has been emitted from it, and the heat which would be obtained by burning the combustible matter which has been lost from its body during life, and by burning its body after death, make up altogether an exact equivalent to the heat which would be obtained by burning as much food as it has used during its life, and an amount of fuel which would generate as much heat as its body if burned immediately after death.’ I do not know how he has found this out, but he is a man of science—how then can it be objected against the future vitality of the machines that they are, in their present infancy, at the beck and call of beings who are themselves incapable of originating mechanical energy?
“一位科学家已经证明，‘没有一种动物具有产生机械能的能力，但是任何动物在其一生中所做的所有工作，以及从其散发出的所有热量，以及将获得的热量通过燃烧其生前身体失去的可燃物质，以及在死后燃烧其身体，完全等于燃烧其生前所消耗的食物所获得的热量，并且我不知道他是如何发现这一点的，但他是一个科学家——那么，这怎么能反对未来的生命力呢？它们是目前处于婴儿期的机器，听命于那些本身无法产生机械能的生物吗？

‘The main point, however, to be observed as affording cause for alarm is, that whereas animals were formerly the only stomachs of the machines, there are now many which have stomachs of their own, and consume their food themselves. This is a great step towards their becoming, if not animate, yet something so near akin to it, as not to differ more widely from our own life than animals do from vegetables. And though man should remain, in some respects, the higher creature, is not this in accordance with the practice of nature, which allows superiority in some things to animals which have, on the whole, been long surpassed? Has she not allowed the ant and the bee to retain superiority over man in the organisation of their communities and social arrangements, the bird in traversing the air, the fish in swimming, the horse in strength and fleetness, and the dog in self-sacrifice?
然而，值得警惕的要点是，虽然动物以前是机器唯一的胃，但现在很多动物都有自己的胃，自己吃食物。这是向它们迈出的一大步，即使它们不是有生命的，但也是如此接近的东西，以至于它们与我们自己的生活的差异并不比动物与蔬菜的差异更大。尽管人类在某些方面仍然是高等生物，但这不符合自然的惯例吗？自然在某些方面比动物优越，而动物在总体上已经被超越了？难道她不允许蚂蚁和蜜蜂在群落组织和社会安排上保持对人类的优越性，让鸟在空中飞行方面保持优越性，让鱼在游泳方面保持优越性，马在力量和敏捷方面保持优越性，而狗在自我牺牲方面保持优越性？

‘It is said by some with whom I have conversed upon this subject, that the machines can never be developed into animate or quasi- animate existences, inasmuch as they have no reproductive system, nor seem ever likely to possess one. If this be taken to mean that they cannot marry, and that we are never likely to see a fertile union between two vapour-engines with the young ones playing about the door of the shed, however greatly we might desire to do so, I will readily grant it. But the objection is not a very profound one. No one expects that all the features of the now existing organisations will be absolutely repeated in an entirely new class of life. The reproductive system of animals differs widely from that of plants, but both are reproductive systems. Has nature exhausted her phases of this power?
“我与一些人讨论过这个问题，他们说，机器永远不可能发展成有生命或准有生命的存在，因为它们没有生殖系统，而且似乎也不可能拥有生殖系统。如果这意味着他们不能结婚，并且我们永远不可能看到两个蒸汽机之间的肥沃结合，而年轻人在棚屋的门上玩耍，无论我们多么希望这样做，我都会轻易地给予它。但反对意见并不是非常深刻。没有人期望现有组织的所有特征将在全新的生活阶层中完全重复。动物的生殖系统与植物的生殖系统有很大不同，但两者都是生殖系统。大自然是否已经耗尽了这种力量的各个阶段？

‘Surely if a machine is able to reproduce another machine systematically, we may say that it has a reproductive system. What is a reproductive system, if it be not a system for reproduction? And how few of the machines are there which have not been produced systematically by other machines? But it is man that makes them do so. Yes; but is it not insects that make many of the plants reproductive, and would not whole families of plants die out if their fertilisation was not effected by a class of agents utterly foreign to themselves? Does any one say that the red clover has no reproductive system because the humble bee (and the humble bee only) must aid and abet it before it can reproduce? No one. The humble bee is a part of the reproductive system of the clover. Each one of ourselves has sprung from minute animalcules whose entity was entirely distinct from our own, and which acted after their kind with no thought or heed of what we might think about it. These little creatures are part of our own reproductive system; then why not we part of that of the machines?
“当然，如果一台机器能够系统地复制另一台机器，我们可以说它有生殖系统。如果生殖系统不是生殖系统，那它是什么？还有多少机器不是由其他机器系统生产的？但正是人让他们这样做。是的;但是，许多植物的繁殖难道不是由昆虫造成的吗？如果植物的受精过程没有受到一类与它们自身完全不同的媒介的影响，那么整个植物家族难道不会灭绝吗？有人说红三叶草没有生殖系统，因为卑微的蜜蜂（而且只是卑微的蜜蜂）必须帮助和怂恿它才能繁殖？没有人。不起眼的蜜蜂是三叶草生殖系统的一部分。我们每个人都是从微小的微生物中产生的，它们的实体与我们自己的完全不同，并且它们按照同类行事，不考虑或不注意我们的想法。这些小生物是我们生殖系统的一部分；那么我们为什么不成为机器的一部分呢？

‘But the machines which reproduce machinery do not reproduce machines after their own kind. A thimble may be made by machinery, but it was not made by, neither will it ever make, a thimble. Here, again, if we turn to nature we shall find abundance of analogies which will teach us that a reproductive system may be in full force without the thing produced being of the same kind as that which produced it. Very few creatures reproduce after their own kind; they reproduce something which has the potentiality of becoming that which their parents were. Thus the butterfly lays an egg, which egg can become a caterpillar, which caterpillar can become a chrysalis, which chrysalis can become a butterfly; and though I freely grant that the machines cannot be said to have more than the germ of a true reproductive system at present, have we not just seen that they have only recently obtained the germs of a mouth and stomach? And may not some stride be made in the direction of true reproduction which shall be as great as that which has been recently taken in the direction of true feeding?
“但是，复制机器的机器并不按照自己的同类复制机器。顶针可能是由机器制造的，但它不是由顶针制造的，也永远不会制造顶针。在这里，如果我们再次转向自然，我们会发现大量的类比，这些类比将告诉我们，即使所产生的事物与产生它的事物不是同一种类，生殖系统也可能发挥全部作用。很少有生物会各从其类繁衍生息。他们繁殖出一些有可能成为其父母的东西。蝴蝶产卵，卵可以变成毛毛虫，毛毛虫可以变成蛹，蛹可以变成蝴蝶；尽管我坦率地承认，目前这些机器只能拥有真正的生殖系统的细菌，但我们不是才看到它们最近才获得了口腔和胃的细菌吗？难道不能在真正的繁殖方向上迈出一些步伐，这与最近在真正喂养的方向上所迈出的步伐一样大吗？

‘It is possible that the system when developed may be in many cases a vicarious thing. Certain classes of machines may be alone fertile, while the rest discharge other functions in the mechanical system, just as the great majority of ants and bees have nothing to do with the continuation of their species, but get food and store it, without thought of breeding. One cannot expect the parallel to be complete or nearly so; certainly not now, and probably never; but is there not enough analogy existing at the present moment, to make us feel seriously uneasy about the future, and to render it our duty to check the evil while we can still do so? Machines can within certain limits beget machines of any class, no matter how different to themselves. Every class of machines will probably have its special mechanical breeders, and all the higher ones will owe their existence to a large number of parents and not to two only.
“该系统在开发后可能在很多情况下都是替代品。某些类别的机器可能单独具有繁殖力，而其余的则在机械系统中发挥其他功能，就像绝大多数蚂蚁和蜜蜂与它们物种的延续无关，但获取食物并储存它，而不考虑配种。人们不能指望这种平行是完全的或接近的。现在肯定不会，也可能永远不会；但是，目前存在的类比还不够多，使我们对未来感到严重不安，并让我们有责任在我们仍然可以这样做的时候制止邪恶吗？机器在一定限度内可以产生任何类别的机器，无论它们本身有多么不同。每一类机器都可能有其特殊的机械繁殖者，所有高级机器的存在都将归功于大量的父母，而不仅仅是两个。

‘We are misled by considering any complicated machine as a single thing; in truth it is a city or society, each member of which was bred truly after its kind. We see a machine as a whole, we call it by a name and individualise it; we look at our own limbs, and know that the combination forms an individual which springs from a single centre of reproductive action; we therefore assume that there can be no reproductive action which does not arise from a single centre; but this assumption is unscientific, and the bare fact that no vapour-engine was ever made entirely by another, or two others, of its own kind, is not sufficient to warrant us in saying that vapour-engines have no reproductive system. The truth is that each part of every vapour-engine is bred by its own special breeders, whose function it is to breed that part, and that only, while the combination of the parts into a whole forms another department of the mechanical reproductive system, which is at present exceedingly complex and difficult to see in its entirety.
“我们将任何复杂的机器视为单一事物，这是一种误导；事实上，它是一个城市或社会，其中的每个成员都是真正按照自己的同类培育出来的。我们将机器视为一个整体，给它起一个名字，并将其个性化；我们看看自己的四肢，就知道这种结合形成了一个个体，这个个体源于一个生殖活动的单一中心；因此，我们假设不可能存在不是由单一中心产生的生殖行为；但这种假设是不科学的，而且没有任何蒸汽机完全是由另一个或两个同类的蒸汽机制造的，这一事实不足以让我们有理由说蒸汽机没有生殖系统。事实是，每台蒸汽机的每个部件都是由其自己的特殊育种者培育的，其功能就是培育该部件，而且只有当这些部件组合成一个整体时，才形成机械生殖系统的另一个部门，目前情况极其复杂，很难全面了解。

‘Complex now, but how much simpler and more intelligibly organised may it not become in another hundred thousand years? or in twenty thousand? For man at present believes that his interest lies in that direction; he spends an incalculable amount of labour and time and thought in making machines breed always better and better; he has already succeeded in effecting much that at one time appeared impossible, and there seem no limits to the results of accumulated improvements if they are allowed to descend with modification from generation to generation. It must always be remembered that man’s body is what it is through having been moulded into its present shape by the chances and changes of many millions of years, but that his organisation never advanced with anything like the rapidity with which that of the machines is advancing. This is the most alarming feature in the case, and I must be pardoned for insisting on it so frequently.’
“现在很复杂，但再过十万年，它不会变得更加简单和更加容易理解吗？”还是两万？因为现在的人相信他的兴趣在于这个方向；他花费了难以估量的劳动、时间和思想，让机器不断繁殖得越来越好；他已经成功地实现了许多一度看似不可能的目标，而且如果允许这些改进代代相传，那么积累的改进的结果似乎是没有限制的。必须永远记住，人类的身体是通过数百万年的机会和变化塑造成现在的形状的，但他的组织从未像机器的组织那样快速发展。 。这是本案中最令人震惊的特征，我必须原谅我如此频繁地坚持这一点。

CHAPTER XXV: THE MACHINES—concluded
第二十五章：机器——结束

Here followed a very long and untranslatable digression about the different races and families of the then existing machines. The writer attempted to support his theory by pointing out the similarities existing between many machines of a widely different character, which served to show descent from a common ancestor. He divided machines into their genera, subgenera, species, varieties, subvarieties, and so forth. He proved the existence of connecting links between machines that seemed to have very little in common, and showed that many more such links had existed, but had now perished. He pointed out tendencies to reversion, and the presence of rudimentary organs which existed in many machines feebly developed and perfectly useless, yet serving to mark descent from an ancestor to whom the function was actually useful.
接下来是关于当时现有机器的不同种族和家族的很长且无法翻译的题外话。作者试图通过指出许多具有广泛不同特征的机器之间存在的相似性来支持他的理论，这些相似性表明了来自共同祖先的血统。他将机器分为属、亚属、种、变种、亚变种等等。他证明了机器之间似乎没有什么共同点的连接链接的存在，并表明更多这样的链接曾经存在，但现在已经消失了。他指出了回归的倾向，以及存在于许多发育微弱且完全无用的机器中的初级器官的存在，但却标志着该功能实际上是有用的祖先的血统。

I left the translation of this part of the treatise, which, by the way, was far longer than all that I have given here, for a later opportunity. Unfortunately, I left Erewhon before I could return to the subject; and though I saved my translation and other papers at the hazard of my life, I was a obliged to sacrifice the original work. It went to my heart to do so; but I thus gained ten minutes of invaluable time, without which both Arowhena and myself must have certainly perished.
我留下了这部分论文的译文，顺便说一句，它比我在这里给出的所有内容都要长得多，以供以后有机会使用。不幸的是，我还没来得及回到主题就离开了Erewhon。尽管我冒着生命危险保存了我的翻译和其他论文，但我不得不牺牲原始作品。我很想这么做。但我因此获得了十分钟的宝贵时间，没有这些时间，阿罗维娜和我自己肯定会丧命。

I remember one incident which bears upon this part of the treatise. The gentleman who gave it to me had asked to see my tobacco-pipe; he examined it carefully, and when he came to the little protuberance at the bottom of the bowl he seemed much delighted, and exclaimed that it must be rudimentary. I asked him what he meant.
我记得一件与本文这一部分有关的事件。给我烟斗的那位先生要求看一下我的烟斗。他仔细地检查了它，当他看到碗底的小突起时，他似乎很高兴，并惊呼这一定是简陋的。我问他什么意思。

‘Sir,’ he answered, ‘this organ is identical with the rim at the bottom of a cup; it is but another form of the same function. Its purpose must have been to keep the heat of the pipe from marking the table upon which it rested. You would find, if you were to look up the history of tobacco-pipes, that in early specimens this protuberance was of a different shape to what it is now. It will have been broad at the bottom, and flat, so that while the pipe was being smoked the bowl might rest upon the table without marking it. Use and disuse must have come into play and reduced the function to its present rudimentary condition. I should not be surprised, sir,’ he continued, ‘if, in the course of time, it were to become modified still farther, and to assume the form of an ornamental leaf or scroll, or even a butterfly, while, in some cases, it will become extinct.’
“先生，”他回答说，“这个器官与杯底的边缘相同；它只是同一功能的另一种形式。它的目的一定是防止管子的热量在它所放置的桌子上留下痕迹。如果你查阅烟斗的历史，你会发现，在早期的标本中，这个突起的形状与现在不同。它的底部很宽，而且很平，这样在抽烟斗的时候，碗就可以放在桌子上，而不会留下任何痕迹。使用和废弃肯定已经发挥作用，并将功能降低到目前的基本状态。先生，我不会感到惊讶，”他继续说道，“如果随着时间的推移，它会进一步改变，呈现出装饰性的叶子或卷轴，甚至蝴蝶的形状，而在某些情况下，在这种情况下，它将灭绝。

On my return to England, I looked up the point, and found that my friend was right.
回到英国后，我查了一下这一点，发现我的朋友是对的。

Returning, however, to the treatise, my translation recommences as follows:-
然而，回到这篇论文，我的翻译如下：-

‘May we not fancy that if, in the remotest geological period, some early form of vegetable life had been endowed with the power of reflecting upon the dawning life of animals which was coming into existence alongside of its own, it would have thought itself exceedingly acute if it had surmised that animals would one day become real vegetables? Yet would this be more mistaken than it would be on our part to imagine that because the life of machines is a very different one to our own, there is therefore no higher possible development of life than ours; or that because mechanical life is a very different thing from ours, therefore that it is not life at all?
“我们是否可以想象，如果在最遥远的地质时期，某种早期的植物生命形式被赋予了反思动物生命的能力，而动物的生命也随之出现，它会认为自己非常伟大。如果推测动物有一天会变成真正的蔬菜，会不会很尖锐？然而，如果我们认为由于机器的生命与我们的生命非常不同，因此生命的发展不可能比我们的更高，这种想法会比我们想象的更加错误吗？或者因为机械生命与我们的生命非常不同，因此它根本不是生命？

‘But I have heard it said, ‘granted that this is so, and that the vapour-engine has a strength of its own, surely no one will say that it has a will of its own?’ Alas! if we look more closely, we shall find that this does not make against the supposition that the vapour-engine is one of the germs of a new phase of life. What is there in this whole world, or in the worlds beyond it, which has a will of its own? The Unknown and Unknowable only!
“但我听人说：‘既然如此，而且蒸汽机有自己的力量，肯定没有人会说它有自己的意志吗？’唉！如果我们更仔细地观察，我们会发现这并不违背蒸汽机是生命新阶段的萌芽之一的假设。在这个世界上，或者在这个世界之外的世界里，有什么东西是有自己的意志的呢？只有未知和不可知！

‘A man is the resultant and exponent of all the forces that have been brought to bear upon him, whether before his birth or afterwards. His action at any moment depends solely upon his constitution, and on the intensity and direction of the various agencies to which he is, and has been, subjected. Some of these will counteract each other; but as he is by nature, and as he has been acted on, and is now acted on from without, so will he do, as certainly and regularly as though he were a machine.
“一个人是所有施加在他身上的力量的结果和体现，无论是在他出生之前还是之后。他在任何时刻的行动完全取决于他的体质，以及他现在和过去所服从的各种机构的强度和方向。其中一些会相互抵消；但正如他的本性一样，正如他曾经受到过作用，现在又受到来自外部的作用，他也会这样做，就像他是一台机器一样，确定而有规律。

‘We do not generally admit this, because we do not know the whole nature of any one, nor the whole of the forces that act upon him. We see but a part, and being thus unable to generalise human conduct, except very roughly, we deny that it is subject to any fixed laws at all, and ascribe much both of a man’s character and actions to chance, or luck, or fortune; but these are only words whereby we escape the admission of our own ignorance; and a little reflection will teach us that the most daring flight of the imagination or the most subtle exercise of the reason is as much the thing that must arise, and the only thing that can by any possibility arise, at the moment of its arising, as the falling of a dead leaf when the wind shakes it from the tree.
“我们通常不承认这一点，因为我们不知道任何人的全部本性，也不知道作用于他的全部力量。我们只看到一部分，因此无法概括人类行为，除非非常粗略，我们否认它受任何固定法则的约束，并将一个人的性格和行为归因于机会，运气或财富;但这些只是我们逃避承认自己无知的话语而已。稍加思考就会告诉我们，最大胆的想象力飞翔或最微妙的理性运用同样是必须出现的事物，也是唯一可以在其出现的时刻出现的事物，就像风把树上的枯叶吹落时一样。

‘For the future depends upon the present, and the present (whose existence is only one of those minor compromises of which human life is full—for it lives only on sufferance of the past and future) depends upon the past, and the past is unalterable. The only reason why we cannot see the future as plainly as the past, is because we know too little of the actual past and actual present; these things are too great for us, otherwise the future, in its minutest details, would lie spread out before our eyes, and we should lose our sense of time present by reason of the clearness with which we should see the past and future; perhaps we should not be even able to distinguish time at all; but that is foreign. What we do know is, that the more the past and present are known, the more the future can be predicted; and that no one dreams of doubting the fixity of the future in cases where he is fully cognisant of both past and present, and has had experience of the consequences that followed from such a past and such a present on previous occasions. He perfectly well knows what will happen, and will stake his whole fortune thereon.
“因为未来取决于现在，而现在（其存在只是人类生命充实的那些微小妥协之一——因为它仅靠对过去和未来的忍受而生活）取决于过去，而过去是不可改变的。我们之所以不能像过去一样清楚地看到未来，唯一的原因是我们对实际的过去和实际的现在了解得太少；这些事情对我们来说太伟大了，否则未来的最微小的细节就会展现在我们眼前，我们会因为清楚地看到过去和未来而失去对当下的时间感；或许我们根本就无法区分时间；但这是外国的。我们所知道的是，对过去和现在了解得越多，就越能预测未来；如果一个人充分认识到过去和现在，并且在以前的情况下经历过这样的过去和这样的现在所带来的后果，那么没有人会梦想怀疑未来的确定性。他完全知道将会发生什么，并将把自己的全部财产押在上面。

‘And this is a great blessing; for it is the foundation on which morality and science are built. The assurance that the future is no arbitrary and changeable thing, but that like futures will invariably follow like presents, is the groundwork on which we lay all our plans—the faith on which we do every conscious action of our lives. If this were not so we should be without a guide; we should have no confidence in acting, and hence we should never act, for there would be no knowing that the results which will follow now will be the same as those which followed before.
‘这是一个伟大的祝福；因为它是道德和科学的基础。确信未来不是任意的、可变的事物，而是像未来一样，总是会像现在一样随之而来，这是我们制定所有计划的基础，也是我们在生活中采取每一个有意识的行动的信念。如果不是这样，我们就没有向导了。我们对行动不应该有信心，因此我们永远不应该行动，因为不知道现在的结果会和以前的结果一样。

‘Who would plough or sow if he disbelieved in the fixity of the future? Who would throw water on a blazing house if the action of water upon fire were uncertain? Men will only do their utmost when they feel certain that the future will discover itself against them if their utmost has not been done. The feeling of such a certainty is a constituent part of the sum of the forces at work upon them, and will act most powerfully on the best and most moral men. Those who are most firmly persuaded that the future is immutably bound up with the present in which their work is lying, will best husband their present, and till it with the greatest care. The future must be a lottery to those who think that the same combinations can sometimes precede one set of results, and sometimes another. If their belief is sincere they will speculate instead of working: these ought to be the immoral men; the others have the strongest spur to exertion and morality, if their belief is a living one.
“如果他不相信未来的确定性，谁还会犁地或播种呢？如果水对火的作用不确定，谁会向着火的房子泼水呢？只有当人们确信，如果不竭尽全力，未来就会对他们不利时，他们才会竭尽全力。这种确定性的感觉是作用在他们身上的力量总和的一个组成部分，并且会对最优秀和最有道德的人产生最有力的作用。那些坚信未来与他们的工作所在的现在不可分割地联系在一起的人，将最好地珍惜他们的现在，并以最大的谨慎对待它。对于那些认为相同的组合有时会出现一组结果，有时会出现另一组结果的人来说，未来一定是一场彩票。如果他们的信仰是真诚的，他们就会投机而不是工作：这些人应该是不道德的人；其他人如果他们的信仰是活生生的，那么他们对努力和道德的激励是最强烈的。

‘The bearing of all this upon the machines is not immediately apparent, but will become so presently. In the meantime I must deal with friends who tell me that, though the future is fixed as regards inorganic matter, and in some respects with regard to man, yet that there are many ways in which it cannot be considered as fixed. Thus, they say that fire applied to dry shavings, and well fed with oxygen gas, will always produce a blaze, but that a coward brought into contact with a terrifying object will not always result in a man running away. Nevertheless, if there be two cowards perfectly similar in every respect, and if they be subjected in a perfectly similar way to two terrifying agents, which are themselves perfectly similar, there are few who will not expect a perfect similarity in the running away, even though a thousand years intervene between the original combination and its being repeated.
“所有这一切对机器的影响并不是立即显而易见的，但很快就会变得如此。与此同时，我必须与朋友们打交道，他们告诉我，虽然未来对于无机物以及对于人类来说在某些方面是固定的，但在很多方面它不能被认为是固定的。因此，他们说，对干刨花施火并充分供给氧气，总是会产生火焰，但胆小鬼接触到可怕的物体并不总是会导致一个人逃跑。然而，如果有两个胆小鬼在各方面都完全相似，如果他们以完全相似的方式受到两个可怕的代理人的攻击，而这两个代理人本身又完全相似，那么很少有人会期望逃跑的过程完全相似，即使是在逃跑的过程中。尽管最初的组合和它的重复之间间隔了一千年。

‘The apparently greater regularity in the results of chemical than of human combinations arises from our inability to perceive the subtle differences in human combinations—combinations which are never identically repeated. Fire we know, and shavings we know, but no two men ever were or ever will be exactly alike; and the smallest difference may change the whole conditions of the problem. Our registry of results must be infinite before we could arrive at a full forecast of future combinations; the wonder is that there is as much certainty concerning human action as there is; and assuredly the older we grow the more certain we feel as to what such and such a kind of person will do in given circumstances; but this could never be the case unless human conduct were under the influence of laws, with the working of which we become more and more familiar through experience.
“化学结果的规律性显然比人类组合的规律性更大，这是因为我们无法察觉人类组合中的细微差别——这些组合永远不会完全相同地重复。”我们知道火，我们也知道刨花，但没有两个人曾经或将来是完全相同的。最小的差异可能会改变问题的整体情况。在我们能够对未来组合进行全面预测之前，我们的结果记录必须是无限的；令人惊奇的是，人类的行为有如此多的确定性。当然，我们年纪越大，我们就越能确定这样那样的人在特定情况下会做什么。但是，除非人类行为受到法律的影响，否则情况永远不会如此，而且我们通过经验越来越熟悉法律的运作。

‘If the above is sound, it follows that the regularity with which machinery acts is no proof of the absence of vitality, or at least of germs which may be developed into a new phase of life. At first sight it would indeed appear that a vapour-engine cannot help going when set upon a line of rails with the steam up and the machinery in full play; whereas the man whose business it is to drive it can help doing so at any moment that he pleases; so that the first has no spontaneity, and is not possessed of any sort of free will, while the second has and is.
“如果上述说法正确，那么机器运转的规律性并不能证明缺乏活力，或者至少不能证明缺乏可能发展成生命新阶段的细菌。”乍一看，蒸汽机确实会在蒸汽升起且机械充分发挥作用的情况下放在一条铁轨上时无法控制地运转。而以驾驶为己任的人可以在他愿意的任何时候帮助这样做；因此，前者没有自发性，也不具有任何形式的自由意志，而后者则具有并且存在。

‘This is true up to a certain point; the driver can stop the engine at any moment that he pleases, but he can only please to do so at certain points which have been fixed for him by others, or in the case of unexpected obstructions which force him to please to do so. His pleasure is not spontaneous; there is an unseen choir of influences around him, which make it impossible for him to act in any other way than one. It is known beforehand how much strength must be given to these influences, just as it is known beforehand how much coal and water are necessary for the vapour-engine itself; and curiously enough it will be found that the influences brought to bear upon the driver are of the same kind as those brought to bear upon the engine—that is to say, food and warmth. The driver is obedient to his masters, because he gets food and warmth from them, and if these are withheld or given in insufficient quantities he will cease to drive; in like manner the engine will cease to work if it is insufficiently fed. The only difference is, that the man is conscious about his wants, and the engine (beyond refusing to work) does not seem to be so; but this is temporary, and has been dealt with above.
“在某种程度上，这是正确的；驾驶员可以在他愿意的任何时刻停止发动机，但他只能在其他人为他固定的某些点上这样做，或者在出现意外障碍迫使他这样做的情况下。他的快乐不是自发的，而是自发的。他周围有一群看不见的影响力，这使得他不可能以任何其他方式行事。事先知道必须给予这些影响多大的强度，就像事先知道蒸汽机本身需要多少煤和水一样；奇怪的是，我们会发现对驾驶员的影响与对发动机的影响是同一类——也就是说，食物和温暖。司机服从主人，因为他从他们那里得到食物和温暖，如果这些东西被扣留或给予不足，他就会停止驾驶；同样，如果供油不足，发动机将停止工作。唯一的区别是，这个人意识到自己的需求，而引擎（除了拒绝工作）似乎并没有意识到；但这是暂时的，上面已经处理过。

‘Accordingly, the requisite strength being given to the motives that are to drive the driver, there has never, or hardly ever, been an instance of a man stopping his engine through wantonness. But such a case might occur; yes, and it might occur that the engine should break down: but if the train is stopped from some trivial motive it will be found either that the strength of the necessary influences has been miscalculated, or that the man has been miscalculated, in the same way as an engine may break down from an unsuspected flaw; but even in such a case there will have been no spontaneity; the action will have had its true parental causes: spontaneity is only a term for man’s ignorance of the gods.
“因此，在驱动驾驶员的动机得到了必要的力量的情况下，从来没有或几乎没有一个人肆意地停止发动机的例子。但这样的情况也有可能发生；是的，并且可能会出现引擎故障的情况：但是，如果火车因某种微不足道的动机而停下来，就会发现，要么是必要影响的强度被误算了，要么是那个人被误判了，同样地，发动机可能会因意想不到的缺陷而发生故障；但即使在这种情况下，也不会有自发性。这种行为有其真正的根源：自发性只是人类对神的无知的一个术语。

‘Is there, then, no spontaneity on the part of those who drive the driver?’
“那么，开车的人就没有自发性吗？”

Here followed an obscure argument upon this subject, which I have thought it best to omit. The writer resumes:- ‘After all then it comes to this, that the difference between the life of a man and that of a machine is one rather of degree than of kind, though differences in kind are not wanting. An animal has more provision for emergency than a machine. The machine is less versatile; its range of action is narrow; its strength and accuracy in its own sphere are superhuman, but it shows badly in a dilemma; sometimes when its normal action is disturbed, it will lose its head, and go from bad to worse like a lunatic in a raging frenzy: but here, again, we are met by the same consideration as before, namely, that the machines are still in their infancy; they are mere skeletons without muscles and flesh.
接下来是关于这个主题的一个晦涩的论证，我认为最好省略它。作者继续说道：“毕竟，人的生命与机器的生命之间的差异是程度的差异，而不是种类的差异，尽管种类上的差异并不缺乏。动物比机器有更多的应对紧急情况的能力。机器的通用性较差；其作用范围较窄；它的力量和准确性在它自己的领域是超人的，但它在困境中表现得很糟糕；有时，当它的正常动作受到干扰时，它会失去理智，像一个疯狂的疯子一样变得越来越糟：但在这里，我们再次遇到了与以前相同的考虑，即机器仍然处于静止状态。在他们的婴儿期；他们只是骷髅，没有肌肉和血肉。

‘For how many emergencies is an oyster adapted? For as many as are likely to happen to it, and no more. So are the machines; and so is man himself. The list of casualties that daily occur to man through his want of adaptability is probably as great as that occurring to the machines; and every day gives them some greater provision for the unforeseen. Let any one examine the wonderful self-regulating and self-adjusting contrivances which are now incorporated with the vapour-engine, let him watch the way in which it supplies itself with oil; in which it indicates its wants to those who tend it; in which, by the governor, it regulates its application of its own strength; let him look at that store-house of inertia and momentum the fly-wheel, or at the buffers on a railway carriage; let him see how those improvements are being selected for perpetuity which contain provision against the emergencies that may arise to harass the machines, and then let him think of a hundred thousand years, and the accumulated progress which they will bring unless man can be awakened to a sense of his situation, and of the doom which he is preparing for himself. {6}
“一只牡蛎能应对多少种紧急情况？对于尽可能多的可能发生的事情，仅此而已。机器也是如此；人本身也是如此。人类因缺乏适应能力而每天遭受的伤亡可能与机器所遭受的伤亡一样多。每一天都会为他们提供更多的准备，以应对不可预见的情况。让任何人都检查一下现在与蒸汽机结合在一起的奇妙的自我调节和自我调节装置，让他观察一下它如何为自己提供油；它向照料它的人表明它的需要；其中，由总督管理其自身力量的运用；让他看看惯性和动量的仓库——飞轮，或者火车车厢的缓冲器；让他看看这些改进是如何被永久选择的，其中包含针对可能出现的骚扰机器的紧急情况的规定，然后让他想想十万年，以及它们将带来的累积进步，除非人类能够被唤醒对他的处境以及他正在为自己准备的厄运的感觉。 {6}

‘The misery is that man has been blind so long already. In his reliance upon the use of steam he has been betrayed into increasing and multiplying. To withdraw steam power suddenly will not have the effect of reducing us to the state in which we were before its introduction; there will be a general break-up and time of anarchy such as has never been known; it will be as though our population were suddenly doubled, with no additional means of feeding the increased number. The air we breathe is hardly more necessary for our animal life than the use of any machine, on the strength of which we have increased our numbers, is to our civilisation; it is the machines which act upon man and make him man, as much as man who has acted upon and made the machines; but we must choose between the alternative of undergoing much present suffering, or seeing ourselves gradually superseded by our own creatures, till we rank no higher in comparison with them, than the beasts of the field with ourselves.
‘可悲的是，人类已经盲目了这么久。在他对蒸汽的依赖中，他已经被背叛而增加和繁殖。突然撤走蒸汽动力不会使我们回到蒸汽动力引入之前的状态；将会出现前所未有的全面分裂和无政府状态；就好像我们的人口突然增加了一倍，却没有其他办法来养活增加的人口。我们呼吸的空气对于我们的动物生命来说并不比任何机器的使用对于我们的文明更重要，借助机器我们增加了我们的数量。是机器作用于人并使人成为人，就像人作用于机器并创造了机器一样。但是我们必须在两种选择之间做出选择：要么承受目前的许多痛苦，要么看到我们自己逐渐被我们自己的生物所取代，直到我们与他们相比，就像野外的野兽与我们自己相比一样。

‘Herein lies our danger. For many seem inclined to acquiesce in so dishonourable a future. They say that although man should become to the machines what the horse and dog are to us, yet that he will continue to exist, and will probably be better off in a state of domestication under the beneficent rule of the machines than in his present wild condition. We treat our domestic animals with much kindness. We give them whatever we believe to be the best for them; and there can be no doubt that our use of meat has increased their happiness rather than detracted from it. In like manner there is reason to hope that the machines will use us kindly, for their existence will be in a great measure dependent upon ours; they will rule us with a rod of iron, but they will not eat us; they will not only require our services in the reproduction and education of their young, but also in waiting upon them as servants; in gathering food for them, and feeding them; in restoring them to health when they are sick; and in either burying their dead or working up their deceased members into new forms of mechanical existence.
‘这就是我们的危险。因为许多人似乎倾向于默许如此不光彩的未来。他们说，虽然人之于机器就像马和狗之于我们，但他将继续存在，并且在机器仁慈统治下的驯化状态中可能会比在目前的野生状态中过得更好。健康）状况。我们非常友善地对待我们的家畜。我们为他们提供我们认为对他们最好的一切；毫无疑问，我们对肉类的使用增加了而不是降低了他们的幸福感。同样，我们有理由希望机器能够善待我们，因为它们的存在在很大程度上取决于我们的存在。他们会用铁杖统治我们，但不会吃我们；它们不仅需要我们为它们的后代提供繁殖和教育方面的服务，而且还需要我们像仆人一样伺候它们；为他们收集食物并喂养他们；当他们生病时使他们恢复健康；或者埋葬他们的死者，或者让他们死去的成员进入新的机械存在形式。

‘The very nature of the motive power which works the advancement of the machines precludes the possibility of man’s life being rendered miserable as well as enslaved. Slaves are tolerably happy if they have good masters, and the revolution will not occur in our time, nor hardly in ten thousand years, or ten times that. Is it wise to be uneasy about a contingency which is so remote? Man is not a sentimental animal where his material interests are concerned, and though here and there some ardent soul may look upon himself and curse his fate that he was not born a vapour-engine, yet the mass of mankind will acquiesce in any arrangement which gives them better food and clothing at a cheaper rate, and will refrain from yielding to unreasonable jealousy merely because there are other destinies more glorious than their own.
“推动机器进步的原动力的本质排除了人类生活变得悲惨和被奴役的可能性。如果奴隶有好主人，他们就还算幸福，而革命不会发生在我们这个时代，一万年或十倍之内也不会发生。对如此遥远的意外事件感到不安是否明智？就物质利益而言，人不是感性的动物，虽然时不时会有一些热心的灵魂审视自己，咒骂自己的命运，说他生来不是一台蒸汽机，但人类大众会默许任何安排以更便宜的价格给他们更好的食物和衣服，并且不会仅仅因为有其他命运比自己更光荣而屈服于无理的嫉妒。

‘The power of custom is enormous, and so gradual will be the change, that man’s sense of what is due to himself will be at no time rudely shocked; our bondage will steal upon us noiselessly and by imperceptible approaches; nor will there ever be such a clashing of desires between man and the machines as will lead to an encounter between them. Among themselves the machines will war eternally, but they will still require man as the being through whose agency the struggle will be principally conducted. In point of fact there is no occasion for anxiety about the future happiness of man so long as he continues to be in any way profitable to the machines; he may become the inferior race, but he will be infinitely better off than he is now. Is it not then both absurd and unreasonable to be envious of our benefactors? And should we not be guilty of consummate folly if we were to reject advantages which we cannot obtain otherwise, merely because they involve a greater gain to others than to ourselves?
“习惯的力量是巨大的，而且这种变化是渐进的，人们对自己应得的东西的感觉永远不会受到粗鲁的震惊；我们的束缚会悄无声息地、不知不觉地降临到我们身上；人与机器之间的欲望冲突也不会导致它们之间的相遇。机器之间将永远进行战争，但它们仍然需要人作为主要通过其代理进行斗争的存在。事实上，只要人类继续以任何方式为机器带来利润，就没有必要担心人类未来的幸福。他可能会成为劣等种族，但他会比现在过得无限好。那么，嫉妒我们的恩人不是既荒谬又不合理吗？如果我们仅仅因为别人获得的利益比我们自己获得的利益更大而拒绝通过其他方式无法获得的利益，我们难道不应该犯下极大的愚蠢吗？

‘With those who can argue in this way I have nothing in common. I shrink with as much horror from believing that my race can ever be superseded or surpassed, as I should do from believing that even at the remotest period my ancestors were other than human beings. Could I believe that ten hundred thousand years ago a single one of my ancestors was another kind of being to myself, I should lose all self-respect, and take no further pleasure or interest in life. I have the same feeling with regard to my descendants, and believe it to be one that will be felt so generally that the country will resolve upon putting an immediate stop to all further mechanical progress, and upon destroying all improvements that have been made for the last three hundred years. I would not urge more than this. We may trust ourselves to deal with those that remain, and though I should prefer to have seen the destruction include another two hundred years, I am aware of the necessity for compromising, and would so far sacrifice my own individual convictions as to be content with three hundred. Less than this will be insufficient.’
“我与那些能以这种方式争论的人没有任何共同点。我害怕相信我的种族可以被取代或超越，就像我相信即使在最遥远的时期我的祖先也不是人类一样。如果我相信十万年前我的祖先对我来说是另一种存在，我就会失去所有的自尊，对生活不再有任何乐趣或兴趣。我对我的后代也有同样的感觉，并且相信这种感觉会如此普遍，以至于国家将决心立即停止所有进一步的机械进步，并摧毁为机械化所做的所有改进。过去三百年。我不会敦促更多。我们可以相信自己能够处理剩下的那些，虽然我更希望看到毁灭再持续两百年，但我意识到妥协的必要性，并且到目前为止会牺牲我自己的个人信念，以满足三百。少于这个是不够的。

This was the conclusion of the attack which led to the destruction of machinery throughout Erewhon. There was only one serious attempt to answer it. Its author said that machines were to be regarded as a part of man’s own physical nature, being really nothing but extra-corporeal limbs. Man, he said, was a machinate mammal. The lower animals keep all their limbs at home in their own bodies, but many of man’s are loose, and lie about detached, now here and now there, in various parts of the world—some being kept always handy for contingent use, and others being occasionally hundreds of miles away. A machine is merely a supplementary limb; this is the be all and end all of machinery. We do not use our own limbs other than as machines; and a leg is only a much better wooden leg than any one can manufacture.
这就是这次袭击的结论，这次袭击导致整个埃瑞翁的机械被毁。只有一次认真的尝试来回答这个问题。它的作者说，机器应该被视为人类自身身体本质的一部分，实际上只不过是体外的肢体。他说，人类是一种精明的哺乳动物。低等动物把所有的四肢都藏在自己的身体里，但人类的许多四肢都是松散的，分离地躺在世界各地，时而在这里，时而那里——有些总是放在手边以备不时之需。有时距离数百英里。机器只是一个辅助肢体；这是机械的全部和最终目的。我们不会将自己的四肢用作机器以外的用途；腿只是比任何人都能制造的更好的木腿。

‘Observe a man digging with a spade; his right fore-arm has become artificially lengthened, and his hand has become a joint. The handle of the spade is like the knob at the end of the humerus; the shaft is the additional bone, and the oblong iron plate is the new form of the hand which enables its possessor to disturb the earth in a way to which his original hand was unequal. Having thus modified himself, not as other animals are modified, by circumstances over which they have had not even the appearance of control, but having, as it were, taken forethought and added a cubit to his stature, civilisation began to dawn upon the race, the social good offices, the genial companionship of friends, the art of unreason, and all those habits of mind which most elevate man above the lower animals, in the course of time ensued.
‘观察一个人用铁锹挖掘；他的右前臂被人为延长，手也变成了关节。铲子的手柄就像肱骨末端的旋钮；轴是额外的骨头，而椭圆形铁板是手的新形式，它使持有者能够以他原来的手无法比拟的方式扰动地球。这样改变了自己，不像其他动物那样，被他们甚至无法控制的环境所改变，而是经过深思熟虑，将自己的身材增加了一肘，文明开始在这个种族中显现出来。随着时间的推移，社会斡旋、朋友的友善陪伴、非理性的艺术以及所有那些最能将人类提升到低等动物之上的思维习惯都随之而来。

‘Thus civilisation and mechanical progress advanced hand in hand, each developing and being developed by the other, the earliest accidental use of the stick having set the ball rolling, and the prospect of advantage keeping it in motion. In fact, machines are to be regarded as the mode of development by which human organism is now especially advancing, every past invention being an addition to the resources of the human body. Even community of limbs is thus rendered possible to those who have so much community of soul as to own money enough to pay a railway fare; for a train is only a seven-leagued foot that five hundred may own at once.’
“因此，文明和机械进步齐头并进，彼此发展并相互发展，最早偶然使用棍子使球滚动起来，而优势的前景则使其继续运转。事实上，机器被视为人类有机体现在特别进步的发展模式，过去的每一项发明都是对人体资源的补充。对于那些拥有如此多的灵魂共同体以至于拥有足够的钱来支付火车票的人来说，甚至四肢的共同体也成为可能；因为一列火车只不过是五百人同时拥有的七联盟英尺。

The one serious danger which this writer apprehended was that the machines would so equalise men’s powers, and so lessen the severity of competition, that many persons of inferior physique would escape detection and transmit their inferiority to their descendants. He feared that the removal of the present pressure might cause a degeneracy of the human race, and indeed that the whole body might become purely rudimentary, the man himself being nothing but soul and mechanism, an intelligent but passionless principle of mechanical action.
笔者所担心的一个严重危险是，机器将使人类的力量变得平等，从而减轻竞争的严重性，以至于许多体质较差的人会逃避检测，并将其劣势遗传给他们的后代。他担心，消除当前的压力可能会导致人类的退化，甚至整个身体可能会变得纯粹初级，人本身只不过是灵魂和机械，是一种聪明但无激情的机械行动原理。

‘How greatly,’ he wrote, ‘do we not now live with our external limbs? We vary our physique with the seasons, with age, with advancing or decreasing wealth. If it is wet we are furnished with an organ commonly called an umbrella, and which is designed for the purpose of protecting our clothes or our skins from the injurious effects of rain. Man has now many extra-corporeal members, which are of more importance to him than a good deal of his hair, or at any rate than his whiskers. His memory goes in his pocket-book. He becomes more and more complex as he grows older; he will then be seen with see-engines, or perhaps with artificial teeth and hair: if he be a really well-developed specimen of his race, he will be furnished with a large box upon wheels, two horses, and a coachman.’
“我们现在不是靠外肢生活吗？”他写道。我们的体质随着季节、年龄、财富的增减而变化。如果天气潮湿，我们会配备一种通常称为雨伞的器官，其设计目的是保护我们的衣服或皮肤免受雨水的伤害。人现在有许多体外成员，这些成员对他来说比他的大量头发更重要，或者至少比他的胡须更重要。他的记忆就在他的皮夹里。随着年龄的增长，他变得越来越复杂；然后人们会看到他带着看见引擎，或者也许带着人造牙齿和头发：如果他是他的种族中真正发育良好的标本，他将配备一个带轮子的大箱子、两匹马和一名车夫。

It was this writer who originated the custom of classifying men by their horse-power, and who divided them into genera, species, varieties, and subvarieties, giving them names from the hypothetical language which expressed the number of limbs which they could command at any moment. He showed that men became more highly and delicately organised the more nearly they approached the summit of opulence, and that none but millionaires possessed the full complement of limbs with which mankind could become incorporate.
正是这位作家首创了按照马力对人类进行分类的习惯，并将它们分为属、种、变种和亚变种，并根据假设的语言给它们命名，该语言表示它们在任何情况下都能指挥的肢体数量。片刻。他表明，人类越接近富裕的顶峰，他们的组织性就越高，除了百万富翁之外，没有人拥有人类可以融入的完整四肢。

‘Those mighty organisms,’ he continued, ‘our leading bankers and merchants, speak to their congeners through the length and breadth of the land in a second of time; their rich and subtle souls can defy all material impediment, whereas the souls of the poor are clogged and hampered by matter, which sticks fast about them as treacle to the wings of a fly, or as one struggling in a quicksand: their dull ears must take days or weeks to hear what another would tell them from a distance, instead of hearing it in a second as is done by the more highly organised classes. Who shall deny that one who can tack on a special train to his identity, and go wheresoever he will whensoever he pleases, is more highly organised than he who, should he wish for the same power, might wish for the wings of a bird with an equal chance of getting them; and whose legs are his only means of locomotion? That old philosophic enemy, matter, the inherently and essentially evil, still hangs about the neck of the poor and strangles him: but to the rich, matter is immaterial; the elaborate organisation of his extra-corporeal system has freed his soul.
“那些强大的有机体，”他继续说道，“我们的主要银行家和商人，在一秒钟的时间里通过土地的长度和广度与他们的同类交谈；他们丰富而微妙的灵魂可以克服一切物质障碍，而穷人的灵魂则被物质所堵塞和阻碍，物质紧紧地粘在他们周围，就像苍蝇翅膀上的糖蜜，或者像在流沙中挣扎的人一样：他们迟钝的耳朵必须需要几天或几周的时间才能听到别人从远处告诉他们什么，而不是像组织更严密的班级那样在一秒钟内听到。谁会否认，一个人可以根据自己的身份搭上一趟专列，随时随地去任何他想去的地方，他比那些希望拥有同样力量的人更有组织性，如果他希望获得同样的力量，他可能希望拥有一只鸟的翅膀获得它们的机会均等；谁的腿是他唯一的移动手段？那个古老的哲学敌人，物质，本质上的邪恶，仍然挂在穷人的脖子上并勒死他们：但对富人来说，物质是非物质的；对于富人来说，物质是非物质的。他的体外系统的精心组织解放了他的灵魂。

‘This is the secret of the homage which we see rich men receive from those who are poorer than themselves: it would be a grave error to suppose that this deference proceeds from motives which we need be ashamed of: it is the natural respect which all living creatures pay to those whom they recognise as higher than themselves in the scale of animal life, and is analogous to the veneration which a dog feels for man. Among savage races it is deemed highly honourable to be the possessor of a gun, and throughout all known time there has been a feeling that those who are worth most are the worthiest.’
“这就是我们看到富人从比自己更穷的人那里得到敬意的秘密：如果认为这种敬意是出于我们需要感到羞耻的动机，那将是一个严重的错误：这是所有人都自然而然的尊重。生物会向那些它们认为在动物生命等级上比自己高的人付出代价，这类似于狗对人类的尊敬。在野蛮种族中，拥有一把枪被认为是非常光荣的，并且在整个已知的时间里，人们一直有一种感觉，即那些最有价值的人是最有价值的。

And so he went on at considerable length, attempting to show what changes in the distribution of animal and vegetable life throughout the kingdom had been caused by this and that of man’s inventions, and in what way each was connected with the moral and intellectual development of the human species: he even allotted to some the share which they had had in the creation and modification of man’s body, and that which they would hereafter have in its destruction; but the other writer was considered to have the best of it, and in the end succeeded in destroying all the inventions that had been discovered for the preceding 271 years, a period which was agreed upon by all parties after several years of wrangling as to whether a certain kind of mangle which was much in use among washerwomen should be saved or no. It was at last ruled to be dangerous, and was just excluded by the limit of 271 years. Then came the reactionary civil wars which nearly ruined the country, but which it would be beyond my present scope to describe.
因此，他继续用相当长的篇幅，试图表明人类的这一或另一项发明引起了整个王国动植物生命分布的哪些变化，以及每一项发明与人类的道德和智力发展有何联系。人类：他甚至将他们在人类身体的创造和改造中所拥有的份额，以及他们在人类身体的毁灭中所拥有的份额分配给了一些人；但另一位作家被认为拥有最好的，并最终成功地摧毁了过去 271 年中发现的所有发明，这一时期是各方经过数年争论后达成的共识。洗衣女工常用的某种熨布机是否应该保留或不保留。最后被判定为危险，只是被排除在271年的期限之外。然后是反动内战，几乎毁掉了这个国家，但这超出了我目前的范围。

CHAPTER XXVI: THE VIEWS OF AN EREWHONIAN PROPHET CONCERNING THE
第二十六章：一位埃雷沃尼安先知关于

RIGHTS OF ANIMALS
动物的权利

It will be seen from the foregoing chapters that the Erewhonians are a meek and long-suffering people, easily led by the nose, and quick to offer up common sense at the shrine of logic, when a philosopher arises among them, who carries them away through his reputation for especial learning, or by convincing them that their existing institutions are not based on the strictest principles of morality.
从前面的章节可以看出，埃雷洪尼亚人是一个温顺、忍耐的民族，很容易被牵着鼻子走，当他们中间出现一位哲学家，把他们带走时，他们很快就会在逻辑圣殿前奉献常识。通过他在特殊学问方面的声誉，或者通过让他们相信他们现有的机构并不是基于最严格的道德原则。

The series of revolutions on which I shall now briefly touch shows this even more plainly than the way (already dealt with) in which at a later date they cut their throats in the matter of machinery; for if the second of the two reformers of whom I am about to speak had had his way—or rather the way that he professed to have—the whole race would have died of starvation within a twelve-month. Happily common sense, though she is by nature the gentlest creature living, when she feels the knife at her throat, is apt to develop unexpected powers of resistance, and to send doctrinaires flying, even when they have bound her down and think they have her at their mercy. What happened, so far as I could collect it from the best authorities, was as follows:-
我现在要简要讨论的一系列革命比后来他们在机械问题上割断喉咙的方式（已经讨论过）更清楚地表明了这一点。因为，如果我要谈到的两位改革家中的第二位按照他自己的方式——或者更确切地说是他自称的方式——整个人类就会在十二个月内死于饥饿。令人高兴的是，虽然她本质上是最温柔的生物，但当她感到喉咙上有刀时，很容易产生意想不到的抵抗力量，并让教条主义者飞走，即使他们已经束缚了她并认为他们拥有了她任凭他们摆布。据我从最权威的机构收集到的信息，发生的事情如下：-

Some two thousand five hundred years ago the Erewhonians were still uncivilised, and lived by hunting, fishing, a rude system of agriculture, and plundering such few other nations as they had not yet completely conquered. They had no schools or systems of philosophy, but by a kind of dog-knowledge did that which was right in their own eyes and in those of their neighbours; the common sense, therefore, of the public being as yet unvitiated, crime and disease were looked upon much as they are in other countries.
大约两千五百年前，埃雷洪尼亚人还没有开化，他们靠狩猎、捕鱼、原始的农业制度以及掠夺他们尚未完全征服的少数其他国家为生。他们没有哲学流派或体系，但通过一种狗的知识去做他们自己和邻居眼中正确的事情。因此，人们对公众尚未受到损害的常识、犯罪和疾病的看法与其他国家的情况大致相同。

But with the gradual advance of civilisation and increase in material prosperity, people began to ask questions about things that they had hitherto taken as matters of course, and one old gentleman, who had great influence over them by reason of the sanctity of his life, and his supposed inspiration by an unseen power, whose existence was now beginning to be felt, took it into his head to disquiet himself about the rights of animals—a question that so far had disturbed nobody.
但随着文明的逐步进步和物质繁荣的增加，人们开始对他们迄今为止视为理所当然的事情提出疑问，一位老先生因其生命的神圣性而对他们产生了巨大的影响，他所谓的灵感来源于一种看不见的力量，现在人们开始感觉到这种力量的存在，这让他对动物的权利感到不安——这个问题到目前为止还没有困扰过任何人。

All prophets are more or less fussy, and this old gentleman seems to have been one of the more fussy ones. Being maintained at the public expense, he had ample leisure, and not content with limiting his attention to the rights of animals, he wanted to reduce right and wrong to rules, to consider the foundations of duty and of good and evil, and otherwise to put all sorts of matters on a logical basis, which people whose time is money are content to accept on no basis at all.
所有的先知都或多或少地挑剔，而这位老先生似乎是其中最挑剔的一位。他靠公费维持生活，有充足的闲暇，他不满足于将注意力限制在动物的权利上，他想减少规则的是非，考虑义务和善恶的基础，并以其他方式把各种事情放在逻辑的基础上，时间就是金钱的人会在没有任何基础的情况下满意地接受。

As a matter of course, the basis on which he decided that duty could alone rest was one that afforded no standing-room for many of the old-established habits of the people. These, he assured them, were all wrong, and whenever any one ventured to differ from him, he referred the matter to the unseen power with which he alone was in direct communication, and the unseen power invariably assured him that he was right. As regards the rights of animals he taught as follows:-
当然，他决定只靠责任的基础是，人民的许多旧习惯没有立足之地。他向他们保证，这些都是错误的，每当有人敢于与他提出不同意见时，他都会将此事交给与他单独直接沟通的看不见的力量，而看不见的力量总是向他保证他是对的。关于动物的权利，他教导如下：-

‘You know, he said, ‘how wicked it is of you to kill one another. Once upon a time your fore-fathers made no scruple about not only killing, but also eating their relations. No one would now go back to such detestable practices, for it is notorious that we have lived much more happily since they were abandoned. From this increased prosperity we may confidently deduce the maxim that we should not kill and eat our fellow-creatures. I have consulted the higher power by whom you know that I am inspired, and he has assured me that this conclusion is irrefragable.
“你知道，”他说，“你们互相残杀是多么邪恶。”从前，你们的祖先不仅肆无忌惮地杀戮，而且还吃掉他们的亲人。现在没有人会再回到这种可憎的做法，因为众所周知，自从它们被抛弃以来，我们生活得更加幸福。从这种日益繁荣的情况中，我们可以自信地推断出我们不应该杀死和吃掉我们的同胞的格言。我已经咨询了更高的力量，你知道我是受到他的启发，他向我保证这个结论是无可辩驳的。

‘Now it cannot be denied that sheep, cattle, deer, birds, and fishes are our fellow-creatures. They differ from us in some respects, but those in which they differ are few and secondary, while those that they have in common with us are many and essential. My friends, if it was wrong of you to kill and eat your fellow-men, it is wrong also to kill and eat fish, flesh, and fowl. Birds, beasts, and fishes, have as full a right to live as long as they can unmolested by man, as man has to live unmolested by his neighbours. These words, let me again assure you, are not mine, but those of the higher power which inspires me.
“现在不可否认的是，羊、牛、鹿、鸟和鱼是我们的同胞。他们在某些方面与我们不同，但他们的不同之处是很少的、次要的，而他们与我们的共同点却是很多且重要的。我的朋友们，如果你们杀害和吃你们的同胞是错误的，那么杀害和吃鱼、肉和家禽也是错误的。鸟类、野兽和鱼类，只要不受人类干扰，就拥有充分的生存权，就像人类必须在不受邻居干扰的情况下生存一样。让我再次向你们保证，这些话不是我的，而是激励我的更高力量的话语。

‘I grant,’ he continued, ‘that animals molest one another, and that some of them go so far as to molest man, but I have yet to learn that we should model our conduct on that of the lower animals. We should endeavour, rather, to instruct them, and bring them to a better mind. To kill a tiger, for example, who has lived on the flesh of men and women whom he has killed, is to reduce ourselves to the level of the tiger, and is unworthy of people who seek to be guided by the highest principles in all, both their thoughts and actions.
“我承认，”他继续说道，“动物们互相骚扰，有些动物甚至骚扰人类，但我还不知道我们应该效仿低等动物的行为。相反，我们应该努力指导他们，让他们有更好的思想。例如，杀死一只老虎，它以被它所杀死的男人和女人的肉为生，就是把我们自己降低到老虎的水平，不配那些寻求遵循一切最高原则的人。 ，他们的想法和行动。

‘The unseen power who has revealed himself to me alone among you, has told me to tell you that you ought by this time to have outgrown the barbarous habits of your ancestors. If, as you believe, you know better than they, you should do better. He commands you, therefore, to refrain from killing any living being for the sake of eating it. The only animal food that you may eat, is the flesh of any birds, beasts, or fishes that you may come upon as having died a natural death, or any that may have been born prematurely, or so deformed that it is a mercy to put them out of their pain; you may also eat all such animals as have committed suicide. As regards vegetables you may eat all those that will let you eat them with impunity.’
“在你们中间，有一种无形的力量向我独自显现，它告诉我，你们现在应该已经摆脱了你们祖先的野蛮习惯。如果你相信，你比他们更了解，你就应该做得更好。因此，他命令你们不要为了吃而杀死任何生物。你唯一可以吃的动物食物是任何鸟类、野兽或鱼类的肉，你可能会遇到自然死亡的动物，或者任何可能早产的动物，或者畸形得可怜的动物。让他们摆脱痛苦；你也可以吃所有自杀的动物。至于蔬菜，你可以吃所有能让你不受惩罚地吃的蔬菜。

So wisely and so well did the old prophet argue, and so terrible were the threats he hurled at those who should disobey him, that in the end he carried the more highly educated part of the people with him, and presently the poorer classes followed suit, or professed to do so. Having seen the triumph of his principles, he was gathered to his fathers, and no doubt entered at once into full communion with that unseen power whose favour he had already so pre-eminently enjoyed.
这位老先知的论点是如此明智和出色，他对那些不服从他的人发出的威胁是如此可怕，以至于最终他带着受过高等教育的那部分人跟随他，不久，较贫穷的阶级也效仿了。 ，或声称这样做。在看到自己的原则取得了胜利之后，他被聚集到他的祖先那里，毫无疑问，他立即与那股看不见的力量完全融为一体，而他已经非常享受这种力量的青睐。

He had not, however, been dead very long, before some of his more ardent disciples took it upon them to better the instruction of their master. The old prophet had allowed the use of eggs and milk, but his disciples decided that to eat a fresh egg was to destroy a potential chicken, and that this came to much the same as murdering a live one. Stale eggs, if it was quite certain that they were too far gone to be able to be hatched, were grudgingly permitted, but all eggs offered for sale had to be submitted to an inspector, who, on being satisfied that they were addled, would label them ‘Laid not less than three months’ from the date, whatever it might happen to be. These eggs, I need hardly say, were only used in puddings, and as a medicine in certain cases where an emetic was urgently required. Milk was forbidden inasmuch as it could not be obtained without robbing some calf of its natural sustenance, and thus endangering its life.
然而，他死后不久，他的一些更热心的弟子就开始承担起更好地指导他们老师的责任。老先知允许使用鸡蛋和牛奶，但他的弟子们认为，吃一个新鲜的鸡蛋就是消灭一只潜在的鸡，这与谋杀一只活鸡没有什么区别。不新鲜的鸡蛋，如果确信它们已经过时而无法孵化，则勉强允许，但所有出售的鸡蛋都必须提交给检查员，检查员在确认这些鸡蛋已变质后，将无论发生什么情况，都将其标记为“自日期起不少于三个月内放置”。不用说，这些鸡蛋只用于布丁，以及在某些急需催吐的情况下作为药物。牛奶是被禁止的，因为获得牛奶会剥夺小牛的天然营养，从而危及其生命。

It will be easily believed that at first there were many who gave the new rules outward observance, but embraced every opportunity of indulging secretly in those flesh-pots to which they had been accustomed. It was found that animals were continually dying natural deaths under more or less suspicious circumstances. Suicidal mania, again, which had hitherto been confined exclusively to donkeys, became alarmingly prevalent even among such for the most part self-respecting creatures as sheep and cattle. It was astonishing how some of these unfortunate animals would scent out a butcher’s knife if there was one within a mile of them, and run right up against it if the butcher did not get it out of their way in time.
人们很容易相信，一开始有很多人表面上遵守新规则，但他们抓住一切机会偷偷地沉迷于他们已经习惯的肉锅里。人们发现，动物不断地在或多或少可疑的情况下自然死亡。迄今为止，自杀狂潮还仅限于驴子，现在甚至在像羊和牛这样大多数自尊的动物中也变得惊人地普遍。令人惊讶的是，如果这些不幸的动物在一英里之内有一把屠刀，一些动物会闻到一把屠刀的气味，如果屠夫没有及时把它移开，它们就会直接跑向它。

Dogs, again, that had been quite law-abiding as regards domestic poultry, tame rabbits, sucking pigs, or sheep and lambs, suddenly took to breaking beyond the control of their masters, and killing anything that they were told not to touch. It was held that any animal killed by a dog had died a natural death, for it was the dog’s nature to kill things, and he had only refrained from molesting farmyard creatures hitherto because his nature had been tampered with. Unfortunately the more these unruly tendencies became developed, the more the common people seemed to delight in breeding the very animals that would put temptation in the dog’s way. There is little doubt, in fact, that they were deliberately evading the law; but whether this was so or no they sold or ate everything their dogs had killed.
狗，对于家禽、驯服的兔子、乳猪、绵羊和羔羊来说，一直很守法，突然变得不受主人的控制，杀死任何被告知不要碰的东西。人们认为，任何被狗杀死的动物都属于自然死亡，因为狗的本性就是杀戮，而他至今没有骚扰农家的生物，只是因为他的本性被篡改了。不幸的是，这些不守规矩的倾向越发展，普通人似乎就越喜欢饲养那些能够对狗施加诱惑的动物。事实上，毫无疑问，他们是故意逃避法律。但无论事实是否如此，他们都会卖掉或吃掉他们的狗杀死的所有东西。

Evasion was more difficult in the case of the larger animals, for the magistrates could not wink at all the pretended suicides of pigs, sheep, and cattle that were brought before them. Sometimes they had to convict, and a few convictions had a very terrorising effect—whereas in the case of animals killed by a dog, the marks of the dog’s teeth could be seen, and it was practically impossible to prove malice on the part of the owner of the dog.
对于较大的动物来说，逃避更加困难，因为地方官员对所有被带到他们面前的假装自杀的猪、羊和牛都无法眨眼。有时他们必须定罪，有的定罪会产生非常恐怖的效果——而在狗杀死动物的情况下，可以看到狗的牙齿痕迹，几乎不可能证明狗有恶意。狗的主人。

Another fertile source of disobedience to the law was furnished by a decision of one of the judges that raised a great outcry among the more fervent disciples of the old prophet. The judge held that it was lawful to kill any animal in self-defence, and that such conduct was so natural on the part of a man who found himself attacked, that the attacking creature should be held to have died a natural death. The High Vegetarians had indeed good reason to be alarmed, for hardly had this decision become generally known before a number of animals, hitherto harmless, took to attacking their owners with such ferocity, that it became necessary to put them to a natural death. Again, it was quite common at that time to see the carcase of a calf, lamb, or kid exposed for sale with a label from the inspector certifying that it had been killed in self- defence. Sometimes even the carcase of a lamb or calf was exposed as ‘warranted still-born,’ when it presented every appearance of having enjoyed at least a month of life.
不遵守法律的另一个丰富根源是一位法官的一项决定，该决定在老先知的更热心的门徒中引起了强烈抗议。法官认为，出于自卫而杀死任何动物是合法的，而且对于发现自己受到攻击的人来说，这种行为是很自然的，因此攻击动物应该被视为自然死亡。高级素食者确实有充分的理由感到震惊，因为这一决定还没有被广泛知晓，许多迄今为止无害的动物就开始以如此凶猛的方式攻击它们的主人，以至于有必要让它们自然死亡。同样，当时很常见看到小牛、羔羊或小山羊的尸体暴露在外出售，并附有检查员的标签，证明其是出于自卫而被杀害的。有时，甚至羔羊或小牛的尸体也会被暴露为“死产”，因为它看起来已经享受了至少一个月的生活。

As for the flesh of animals that had bona fide died a natural death, the permission to eat it was nugatory, for it was generally eaten by some other animal before man got hold of it; or failing this it was often poisonous, so that practically people were forced to evade the law by some of the means above spoken of, or to become vegetarians. This last alternative was so little to the taste of the Erewhonians, that the laws against killing animals were falling into desuetude, and would very likely have been repealed, but for the breaking out of a pestilence, which was ascribed by the priests and prophets of the day to the lawlessness of the people in the matter of eating forbidden flesh. On this, there was a reaction; stringent laws were passed, forbidding the use of meat in any form or shape, and permitting no food but grain, fruits, and vegetables to be sold in shops and markets. These laws were enacted about two hundred years after the death of the old prophet who had first unsettled people’s minds about the rights of animals; but they had hardly been passed before people again began to break them.
至于真正自然死亡的动物的肉，食用它的许可是无效的，因为在人类获得它之前，它通常已经被其他动物吃掉了。如果做不到这一点，它通常是有毒的，因此实际上人们被迫通过上述某些手段来逃避法律，或者成为素食主义者。这最后的选择太不符合埃雷洪人的口味，以至于禁止宰杀动物的法律已经废止，而且很可能被废除，除非爆发了瘟疫，这是由祭司和先知所归咎的。人民在吃禁肉问题上无法无天的日子。对此，有人做出了反应；通过了严格的法律，禁止使用任何形式或形状的肉类，并不允许商店和市场上出售除谷物、水果和蔬菜外的任何食物。这些法律是在这位老先知去世大约两百年后颁布的，他首先动摇了人们对动物权利的认识。但它们刚被通过，人们又开始破坏它们。

I was told that the most painful consequence of all this folly did not lie in the fact that law-abiding people had to go without animal food—many nations do this and seem none the worse, and even in flesh-eating countries such as Italy, Spain, and Greece, the poor seldom see meat from year’s end to year’s end. The mischief lay in the jar which undue prohibition gave to the consciences of all but those who were strong enough to know that though conscience as a rule boons, it can also bane. The awakened conscience of an individual will often lead him to do things in haste that he had better have left undone, but the conscience of a nation awakened by a respectable old gentleman who has an unseen power up his sleeve will pave hell with a vengeance.
有人告诉我，所有这些愚蠢行为最痛苦的后果并不在于守法的人们必须不吃动物食品——许多国家都这样做，而且看起来并没有变得更糟，甚至在意大利这样的食肉国家也是如此。 、西班牙、希腊，穷人从年到年都很少见到肉。恶作剧就在不适当的禁令给所有人的良心带来的伤害中，除了那些足够强大的人知道，虽然良心通常是有益的，但它也可能是祸害。一个人的良心觉醒，常常会导致他匆忙做一些他最好不做的事情，但一个国家的良心被一位可敬的老绅士唤醒，他拥有一种看不见的力量，他会以复仇铺平地狱。

Young people were told that it was a sin to do what their fathers had done unhurt for centuries; those, moreover, who preached to them about the enormity of eating meat, were an unattractive academic folk, and though they over-awed all but the bolder youths, there were few who did not in their hearts dislike them. However much the young person might be shielded, he soon got to know that men and women of the world—often far nicer people than the prophets who preached abstention—continually spoke sneeringly of the new doctrinaire laws, and were believed to set them aside in secret, though they dared not do so openly. Small wonder, then, that the more human among the student classes were provoked by the touch-not, taste-not, handle-not precepts of their rulers, into questioning much that they would otherwise have unhesitatingly accepted.
年轻人被告知，做他们的父辈几个世纪以来所做的事情而不受伤害是一种罪过。此外，那些向他们鼓吹吃肉的可怕性的人都是毫无吸引力的学术人士，尽管他们让除了大胆的年轻人之外的所有人都感到敬畏，但很少有人心里不喜欢他们。无论这个年轻人可能受到多大的保护，他很快就知道世界上的男男女女——通常比宣扬禁欲的先知要好得多——不断地嘲笑新的教条主义法律，并被认为将它们搁置在一边。秘密，虽然他们不敢公开这样做。因此，毫不奇怪，学生阶层中更人性化的人会被统治者的“不碰、不尝、不把手”的戒律激怒，对他们本来会毫不犹豫地接受的许多问题提出质疑。

One sad story is on record about a young man of promising amiable disposition, but cursed with more conscience than brains, who had been told by his doctor (for as I have above said disease was not yet held to be criminal) that he ought to eat meat, law or no law. He was much shocked and for some time refused to comply with what he deemed the unrighteous advice given him by his doctor; at last, however, finding that he grew weaker and weaker, he stole secretly on a dark night into one of those dens in which meat was surreptitiously sold, and bought a pound of prime steak. He took it home, cooked it in his bedroom when every one in the house had gone to rest, ate it, and though he could hardly sleep for remorse and shame, felt so much better next morning that he hardly knew himself.
有一个悲伤的故事被记录在案，讲述的是一位性格温和的年轻人，但他的医生告诉他，他应该吃肉，有法或无法。他非常震惊，有一段时间拒绝遵守他认为医生给他的不公正的建议。但最后，他发现自己越来越虚弱，就在一个漆黑的夜晚偷偷溜进一个卖肉的窝点，买了一磅上等牛排。他把它带回家，在家里的每个人都休息的时候在卧室里煮了它，吃了它，尽管他因悔恨和羞愧而几乎无法入睡，但第二天早上感觉好多了，他几乎不知道自己。

Three or four days later, he again found himself irresistibly drawn to this same den. Again he bought a pound of steak, again he cooked and ate it, and again, in spite of much mental torture, on the following morning felt himself a different man. To cut the story short, though he never went beyond the bounds of moderation, it preyed upon his mind that he should be drifting, as he certainly was, into the ranks of the habitual law-breakers.
三四天后，他再次发现自己不可抗拒地被这个同一个巢穴所吸引。他又买了一磅牛排，又煮了吃，尽管精神上受到了很大的折磨，第二天早上他还是感觉自己变了一个人。总而言之，尽管他从未超越过节制的界限，但他的思想却在不断地变化，他确实是这样，已经跻身于惯犯的行列了。

All the time his health kept on improving, and though he felt sure that he owed this to the beefsteaks, the better he became in body, the more his conscience gave him no rest; two voices were for ever ringing in his ears—the one saying, ‘I am Common Sense and Nature; heed me, and I will reward you as I rewarded your fathers before you.’ But the other voice said: ‘Let not that plausible spirit lure you to your ruin. I am Duty; heed me, and I will reward you as I rewarded your fathers before you.’
他的健康状况一直在不断好转，虽然他确信这要归功于牛排，但他的身体越好，他的良心就越不安宁；有两个声音永远在他耳边响起——一个说：“我是常识和自然；另一个是：我是常识和自然”。听我说，我会奖赏你，就像我奖赏你的祖先一样。”但是另一个声音说：“不要让那个看似合理的精神引诱你走向灭亡。我是责任；听我说，我会奖赏你，就像我奖赏你的祖先一样。”

Sometimes he even seemed to see the faces of the speakers. Common Sense looked so easy, genial, and serene, so frank and fearless, that do what he might he could not mistrust her; but as he was on the point of following her, he would be checked by the austere face of Duty, so grave, but yet so kindly; and it cut him to the heart that from time to time he should see her turn pitying away from him as he followed after her rival.
有时他甚至似乎能看到说话者的脸。常识看起来那么轻松、和蔼、平静、坦率、无所畏惧，无论他做什么，他都不会不信任她。但当他正要跟着她时，他会被义务那张严肃的脸所制止，他是那么严肃，但又那么和蔼可亲。当他追随她的情敌时，他时不时会看到她对他表示同情，而他的心却感到刺痛。

The poor boy continually thought of the better class of his fellow- students, and tried to model his conduct on what he thought was theirs. ‘They,’ he said to himself, ‘eat a beefsteak? Never.’ But they most of them ate one now and again, unless it was a mutton chop that tempted them. And they used him for a model much as he did them. ‘He,’ they would say to themselves, ‘eat a mutton chop? Never.’ One night, however, he was followed by one of the authorities, who was always prowling about in search of law- breakers, and was caught coming out of the den with half a shoulder of mutton concealed about his person. On this, even though he had not been put in prison, he would have been sent away with his prospects in life irretrievably ruined; he therefore hanged himself as soon as he got home.
这个可怜的男孩不断地想着他的同学中更好的班级，并试图以他认为是他们的行为为榜样。 “他们，”他自言自语道，“吃牛排？从来没有。”但他们中的大多数人时不时地吃一块，除非是羊排吸引了他们。他们把他当作模特，就像他为他们做模特一样。 ‘他，’他们会自言自语地说，‘吃羊排？然而，一天晚上，他被一位一直在四处寻找违法者的当局跟踪，并在他身上藏着半块羊肩肉从窝里出来时被发现。这样一来，即使他不被关进监狱，他也会被送走，他的人生前途将无可挽回地毁掉；因此，他一回到家就上吊自杀了。

CHAPTER XXVII: THE VIEWS OF AN EREWHONIAN PHILOSOPHER CONCERNING
第二十七章：一位埃雷霍尼安哲学家的观点

THE RIGHTS OF VEGETABLES
蔬菜的权利

Let me leave this unhappy story, and return to the course of events among the Erewhonians at large. No matter how many laws they passed increasing the severity of the punishments inflicted on those who ate meat in secret, the people found means of setting them aside as fast as they were made. At times, indeed, they would become almost obsolete, but when they were on the point of being repealed, some national disaster or the preaching of some fanatic would reawaken the conscience of the nation, and people were imprisoned by the thousand for illicitly selling and buying animal food.
让我离开这个不幸的故事，回到整个埃雷洪尼亚人的事件过程。不管他们通过了多少法律，加重了对偷吃肉的人的惩罚，人们总是想方设法将其废除。确实，有时它们几乎已经过时了，但当它们即将被废除时，一些国家灾难或一些狂热分子的鼓吹会重新唤醒民族的良知，成千上万的人因非法出售和非法销售而被监禁。购买动物食品。

About six or seven hundred years, however, after the death of the old prophet, a philosopher appeared, who, though he did not claim to have any communication with an unseen power, laid down the law with as much confidence as if such a power had inspired him. Many think that this philosopher did not believe his own teaching, and, being in secret a great meat-eater, had no other end in view than reducing the prohibition against eating animal food to an absurdity, greater even than an Erewhonian Puritan would be able to stand.
然而，在老先知死后大约六七百年，出现了一位哲学家，虽然他没有声称自己与一种看不见的力量有任何联系，但他却充满信心地制定了法律，就好像这种力量一样启发了他。许多人认为这位哲学家不相信自己的教义，而且，作为一个秘密的肉食者，除了将禁止吃动物性食品的禁令降低到荒谬之外别无他法，甚至比埃雷洪清教徒所能做到的还要伟大。站起来。

Those who take this view hold that he knew how impossible it would be to get the nation to accept legislation that it held to be sinful; he knew also how hopeless it would be to convince people that it was not wicked to kill a sheep and eat it, unless he could show them that they must either sin to a certain extent, or die. He, therefore, it is believed, made the monstrous proposals of which I will now speak.
持这种观点的人认为，他知道让国家接受被认为是有罪的立法是多么不可能。他也知道要让人们相信杀羊并吃它并不邪恶是多么无望，除非他能向人们表明，他们要么犯罪到一定程度，要么就死。因此，据信他提出了我现在要谈到的可怕建议。

He began by paying a tribute of profound respect to the old prophet, whose advocacy of the rights of animals, he admitted, had done much to soften the national character, and enlarge its views about the sanctity of life in general. But he urged that times had now changed; the lesson of which the country had stood in need had been sufficiently learnt, while as regards vegetables much had become known that was not even suspected formerly, and which, if the nation was to persevere in that strict adherence to the highest moral principles which had been the secret of its prosperity hitherto, must necessitate a radical change in its attitude towards them.
他首先向这位老先知表示深深的敬意，他承认，这位老先知对动物权利的倡导极大地软化了国民性格，并扩大了人们对生命神圣性的看法。但他强调，时代已经变了。这个国家所需要的教训已经得到了充分的吸取，而关于蔬菜，许多以前甚至没有被怀疑过的知识已经变得众所周知，如果这个国家坚持严格遵守最高的道德原则，那么这些原则就已经得到了充分的认识。迄今为止，这一直是其繁荣的秘密，因此必须彻底改变对它们的态度。

It was indeed true that much was now known that had not been suspected formerly, for the people had had no foreign enemies, and, being both quick-witted and inquisitive into the mysteries of nature, had made extraordinary progress in all the many branches of art and science. In the chief Erewhonian museum I was shown a microscope of considerable power, that was ascribed by the authorities to a date much about that of the philosopher of whom I am now speaking, and was even supposed by some to have been the instrument with which he had actually worked.
确实，现在已经知道了许多以前未曾怀疑过的事情，因为人民没有外敌，而且对自然的奥秘既机智又好奇，在科学的各个领域都取得了非凡的进步。艺术和科学。在埃雷洪尼亚主要博物馆里，我看到了一台具有相当大功率的显微镜，当局认为这台显微镜的年代与我现在所说的这位哲学家的年代相当，甚至有些人认为它是他使用的工具。实际上已经起作用了。

This philosopher was Professor of botany in the chief seat of learning then in Erewhon, and whether with the help of the microscope still preserved, or with another, had arrived at a conclusion now universally accepted among ourselves—I mean, that all, both animals and plants, have had a common ancestry, and that hence the second should be deemed as much alive as the first. He contended, therefore, that animals and plants were cousins, and would have been seen to be so, all along, if people had not made an arbitrary and unreasonable division between what they chose to call the animal and vegetable kingdoms.
这位哲学家是埃里洪当时主要学府的植物学教授，无论是借助仍然保存下来的显微镜，还是借助其他显微镜，他都得出了现在我们普遍接受的结论——我的意思是，所有动物，包括动物和植物都有共同的祖先，因此第二个应该被认为与第一个一样有生命力。因此，他认为，动物和植物是近亲，如果人们没有在他们选择的动物界和植物界之间进行武断和不合理的划分，那么人们一直都会认为动物和植物是表亲。

He declared, and demonstrated to the satisfaction of all those who were able to form an opinion upon the subject, that there is no difference appreciable either by the eye, or by any other test, between a germ that will develop into an oak, a vine, a rose, and one that (given its accustomed surroundings) will become a mouse, an elephant, or a man.
他宣称，并让所有能够就这个问题形成意见的人都满意地证明，无论是通过肉眼还是通过任何其他测试，在将发育成橡树的胚芽与将要发育成橡树的胚芽之间都没有明显的区别。藤蔓，一朵玫瑰，还有一朵（考虑到它习惯的环境）会变成一只老鼠、一头大象或一个人。

He contended that the course of any germ’s development was dictated by the habits of the germs from which it was descended and of whose identity it had once formed part. If a germ found itself placed as the germs in the line of its ancestry were placed, it would do as its ancestors had done, and grow up into the same kind of organism as theirs. If it found the circumstances only a little different, it would make shift (successfully or unsuccessfully) to modify its development accordingly; if the circumstances were widely different, it would die, probably without an effort at self- adaptation. This, he argued, applied equally to the germs of plants and of animals.
他认为，任何细菌的发育过程都是由它所起源的细菌的习性决定的，并且它曾经是细菌身份的一部分。如果一个细菌发现自己的位置与它祖先谱系中的细菌的位置相同，它就会像它的祖先所做的那样，成长为与祖先相同的有机体。如果它发现情况只有一点点不同，它就会做出相应的转变（成功或不成功）来修改其发展；如果环境差异很大，它可能会死亡，可能不需要自我适应的努力。他认为，这同样适用于植物和动物的细菌。

He therefore connected all, both animal and vegetable development, with intelligence, either spent and now unconscious, or still unspent and conscious; and in support of his view as regards vegetable life, he pointed to the way in which all plants have adapted themselves to their habitual environment. Granting that vegetable intelligence at first sight appears to differ materially from animal, yet, he urged, it is like it in the one essential fact that though it has evidently busied itself about matters that are vital to the well-being of the organism that possesses it, it has never shown the slightest tendency to occupy itself with anything else. This, he insisted, is as great a proof of intelligence as any living being can give.
因此，他将一切，无论是动物还是植物的发育，都与智力联系起来，无论是已消耗的、现在无意识的，还是尚未消耗的、有意识的。为了支持他关于植物生命的观点，他指出了所有植物适应其惯常环境的方式。乍一看，植物的智力似乎与动物有本质上的不同，然而，他敦促说，在一个基本事实上，植物的智力与动物是相似的，即尽管它显然忙于那些对拥有该智力的有机体的福祉至关重要的事情。它从来没有表现出丝毫忙于其他事情的倾向。他坚持认为，这是任何生物所能提供的最有力的智力证明。

‘Plants,’ said he, ‘show no sign of interesting themselves in human affairs. We shall never get a rose to understand that five times seven are thirty-five, and there is no use in talking to an oak about fluctuations in the price of stocks. Hence we say that the oak and the rose are unintelligent, and on finding that they do not understand our business conclude that they do not understand their own. But what can a creature who talks in this way know about intelligence? Which shows greater signs of intelligence? He, or the rose and oak?
“植物，”他说，“没有表现出对人类事务感兴趣的迹象。我们永远不会让玫瑰明白五乘七等于三十五，与橡树谈论股票价格的波动是没有用的。因此，我们说橡树和玫瑰是不聪明的，当发现它们不理解我们的事情时，就得出结论，它们不理解自己的事情。但以这种方式说话的生物能了解什么智慧呢？哪个显示出更大的智力迹象？他，还是玫瑰和橡树？

‘And when we call plants stupid for not understanding our business, how capable do we show ourselves of understanding theirs? Can we form even the faintest conception of the way in which a seed from a rose-tree turns earth, air, warmth and water into a rose full- blown? Where does it get its colour from? From the earth, air, &c.? Yes—but how? Those petals of such ineffable texture—that hue that outvies the cheek of a child—that scent again? Look at earth, air, and water—these are all the raw material that the rose has got to work with; does it show any sign of want of intelligence in the alchemy with which it turns mud into rose-leaves? What chemist can do anything comparable? Why does no one try? Simply because every one knows that no human intelligence is equal to the task. We give it up. It is the rose’s department; let the rose attend to it—and be dubbed unintelligent because it baffles us by the miracles it works, and the unconcerned business-like way in which it works them.
“当我们称植物不了解我们的业务而愚蠢时，我们有多大能力了解它们的业务？我们能否对玫瑰树上的一颗种子如何将泥土、空气、温暖和水变成一朵盛开的玫瑰产生哪怕是最微弱的概念？它的颜色从何而来？来自地球、空气等等？是的，但如何？那些花瓣有着难以形容的质感——那种颜色胜过了孩子的脸颊——又是那种香味？看看地球、空气和水——这些都是玫瑰必须使用的原材料；它是否表现出在将泥土变成玫瑰叶的炼金术方面缺乏智慧的迹象？哪个化学家可以做出类似的事情？为什么没有人尝试？原因很简单，因为每个人都知道没有任何人类智慧能够胜任这项任务。我们放弃它。这是玫瑰的部门；让玫瑰来处理它——并被称为“不聪明”，因为它所创造的奇迹以及它所表现出的冷漠的公事方式让我们感到困惑。

‘See what pains, again, plants take to protect themselves against their enemies. They scratch, cut, sting, make bad smells, secrete the most dreadful poisons (which Heaven only knows how they contrive to make), cover their precious seeds with spines like those of a hedgehog, frighten insects with delicate nervous systems by assuming portentous shapes, hide themselves, grow in inaccessible places, and tell lies so plausibly as to deceive even their subtlest foes.
“再看看植物为了保护自己免受敌人侵害而付出了多大的努力。它们抓伤、割伤、蜇人，发出难闻的气味，分泌最可怕的毒药（只有天知道它们是如何制造的），用像刺猬一样的刺覆盖珍贵的种子，通过呈现不祥的形状来吓唬神经系统脆弱的昆虫，隐藏自己，生长在人迹罕至的地方，并且说谎得如此振聋发聩，甚至可以欺骗最狡猾的敌人。

‘They lay traps smeared with bird-lime, to catch insects, and persuade them to drown themselves in pitchers which they have made of their leaves, and fill with water; others make themselves, as it were, into living rat-traps, which close with a spring on any insect that settles upon them; others make their flowers into the shape of a certain fly that is a great pillager of honey, so that when the real fly comes it thinks that the flowers are bespoke, and goes on elsewhere. Some are so clever as even to overreach themselves, like the horse-radish, which gets pulled up and eaten for the sake of that pungency with which it protects itself against underground enemies. If, on the other hand, they think that any insect can be of service to them, see how pretty they make themselves.
“他们设置了涂有粘鸟胶的陷阱来捕捉昆虫，并说服它们把自己淹死在用叶子制成的水罐里，并装满水；其他人则把自己变成了活生生的捕鼠器，用弹簧将任何落在其上的昆虫封闭起来。有些人把花做成某种苍蝇的形状，这种苍蝇是蜂蜜的大掠夺者，所以当真正的苍蝇来时，它认为这些花是定制的，然后去别处。有些人很聪明，甚至超出了自己的范围，就像辣根一样，人们把辣根拔出来吃掉，因为它的辛辣味可以保护自己免受地下敌人的侵害。另一方面，如果他们认为任何昆虫都可以为他们服务，看看他们把自己打扮得多么漂亮。

‘What is to be intelligent if to know how to do what one wants to do, and to do it repeatedly, is not to be intelligent? Some say that the rose-seed does not want to grow into a rose-bush. Why, then, in the name of all that is reasonable, does it grow? Likely enough it is unaware of the want that is spurring it on to action. We have no reason to suppose that a human embryo knows that it wants to grow into a baby, or a baby into a man. Nothing ever shows signs of knowing what it is either wanting or doing, when its convictions both as to what it wants, and how to get it, have been settled beyond further power of question. The less signs living creatures give of knowing what they do, provided they do it, and do it repeatedly and well, the greater proof they give that in reality they know how to do it, and have done it already on an infinite number of past occasions.
“如果知道如何做自己想做的事，并且不断地做，这不是聪明吗？”有人说玫瑰种子不想长成玫瑰丛。那么，以一切合理的名义，为什么它会增长呢？它很可能没有意识到促使其采取行动的需求。我们没有理由假设人类胚胎知道它想要成长为婴儿，或者婴儿想要成长为男人。当它对于自己想要什么以及如何得到它的信念已经确定，超出了进一步质疑的范围时，就没有任何迹象表明它知道它想要什么或正在做什么。生物体表现出的知道自己在做什么的迹象越少，只要它们这样做，并且反复地做得很好，它们就越能证明它们实际上知道如何做，并且已经在过去无数次中做到了这一点。场合。

‘Some one may say,’ he continued, ‘‘What do you mean by talking about an infinite number of past occasions? When did a rose-seed make itself into a rose-bush on any past occasion?’
“有人可能会说，”他继续说道，“你谈论无数的过去事件是什么意思？过去什么时候玫瑰种子会长成玫瑰丛？

‘I answer this question with another. ‘Did the rose-seed ever form part of the identity of the rose-bush on which it grew?’ Who can say that it did not? Again I ask: ‘Was this rose-bush ever linked by all those links that we commonly consider as constituting personal identity, with the seed from which it in its turn grew?’ Who can say that it was not?
‘我用另一个问题来回答这个问题。 “玫瑰种子是否曾经构成它所生长的玫瑰丛的身份的一部分？”谁能说它没有呢？我再次问：“这朵玫瑰花丛是否曾被我们通常认为构成个人身份的所有联系所联系在一起，以及它所生长的种子？”谁能说不是呢？

‘Then, if rose-seed number two is a continuation of the personality of its parent rose-bush, and if that rose-bush is a continuation of the personality of the rose-seed from which it sprang, rose-seed number two must also be a continuation of the personality of the earlier rose-seed. And this rose-seed must be a continuation of the personality of the preceding rose-seed—and so back and back ad infinitum. Hence it is impossible to deny continued personality between any existing rose-seed and the earliest seed that can be called a rose-seed at all.
“那么，如果二号玫瑰种子是其亲本玫瑰丛的个性的延续，并且如果该玫瑰丛是它所发芽的玫瑰种子的个性的延续，那么二号玫瑰种子必须也是早期玫瑰种子个性的延续。而这颗玫瑰种子必定是前一颗玫瑰种子的个性的延续—​​—如此循环往复，无穷无尽。因此，不可能否认任何现有的玫瑰种子和最早的可以称为玫瑰种子的种子之间存在连续的个性。

‘The answer, then, to our objector is not far to seek. The rose- seed did what it now does in the persons of its ancestors—to whom it has been so linked as to be able to remember what those ancestors did when they were placed as the rose-seed now is. Each stage of development brings back the recollection of the course taken in the preceding stage, and the development has been so often repeated, that all doubt—and with all doubt, all consciousness of action—is suspended.
“那么，对于我们的反对者来说，答案并不遥远。玫瑰种子在其祖先身上做了现在所做的事情——它与祖先的联系如此紧密，以至于能够记住那些祖先在被放置为现在的玫瑰种子时所做的事情。发展的每一个阶段都会带回对前一阶段所经历的过程的回忆，而且这种发展经常被重复，以至于所有的怀疑——以及所有的怀疑，所有的行动意识——都被悬置了。

‘But an objector may still say, ‘Granted that the linking between all successive generations has been so close and unbroken, that each one of them may be conceived as able to remember what it did in the persons of its ancestors—how do you show that it actually did remember?’
“但是反对者仍然可能会说，‘假设所有连续几代人之间的联系是如此紧密和不间断，以至于他们中的每一个人都可以被认为能够记住它在其祖先身上所做的事情——你如何表明它真的记得吗？

‘The answer is: ‘By the action which each generation takes—an action which repeats all the phenomena that we commonly associate with memory—which is explicable on the supposition that it has been guided by memory—and which has neither been explained, nor seems ever likely to be explained on any other theory than the supposition that there is an abiding memory between successive generations.’
答案是：“通过每一代人所采取的行动——重复我们通常与记忆联系在一起的所有现象的行动——这是可以解释的，假设它是由记忆引导的——而且既没有被解释，也没有被解释。除了连续几代人之间存在持久记忆的假设之外，似乎任何其他理论都可以解释这一点。

‘Will any one bring an example of any living creature whose action we can understand, performing an ineffably difficult and intricate action, time after time, with invariable success, and yet not knowing how to do it, and never having done it before? Show me the example and I will say no more, but until it is shown me, I shall credit action where I cannot watch it, with being controlled by the same laws as when it is within our ken. It will become unconscious as soon as the skill that directs it has become perfected. Neither rose-seed, therefore, nor embryo should be expected to show signs of knowing that they know what they know—if they showed such signs the fact of their knowing what they want, and how to get it, might more reasonably be doubted.’
“有人能举出一个我们可以理解其行为的生物的例子吗？它一次又一次地执行一种难以形容的困难和复杂的行为，并且总是成功，但不知道如何去做，而且以前从未做过吗？”给我看这个例子，我不会再多说了，但在它向我展示之前，我将相信我看不到的行动，与在我们的知识范围内时受到相同法律的控制。一旦指挥它的技能变得完善，它就会变得无意识。因此，无论是玫瑰种子还是胚胎，都不应该表现出知道自己知道什么的迹象——如果它们表现出这样的迹象，那么他们知道自己想要什么以及如何得到它的事实可能会更合理地受到怀疑。 '

Some of the passages already given in Chapter XXIII were obviously inspired by the one just quoted. As I read it, in a reprint shown me by a Professor who had edited much of the early literature on the subject, I could not but remember the one in which our Lord tells His disciples to consider the lilies of the field, who neither toil nor spin, but whose raiment surpasses even that of Solomon in all his glory.
第二十三章中已经给出的一些段落显然是受到刚才引用的段落的启发。当我读到这本书时，在一位编辑过许多关于这个主题的早期文献的教授给我看的重印本中，我不禁想起我们的主在其中告诉他的门徒要考虑田野里的百合花，他们既不劳苦，也不劳苦。也不纺纱，但他的衣饰甚至胜过所罗门的荣耀。

‘They toil not, neither do they spin?’ Is that so? ‘Toil not?’ Perhaps not, now that the method of procedure is so well known as to admit of no further question—but it is not likely that lilies came to make themselves so beautifully without having ever taken any pains about the matter. ‘Neither do they spin?’ Not with a spinning-wheel; but is there no textile fabric in a leaf?
“它们不劳作，也不纺纱？”是这样吗？ “不辛苦吗？”也许不是，既然程序方法已经众所周知，不容再提出任何进一步的问题，但百合花不太可能在没有付出任何努力的情况下使自己变得如此美丽。 “它们也不旋转？” 不是用纺车；但叶子里没有纺织物吗？

What would the lilies of the field say if they heard one of us declaring that they neither toil nor spin? They would say, I take it, much what we should if we were to hear of their preaching humility on the text of Solomons, and saying, ‘Consider the Solomons in all their glory, they toil not neither do they spin.’ We should say that the lilies were talking about things that they did not understand, and that though the Solomons do not toil nor spin, yet there had been no lack of either toiling or spinning before they came to be arrayed so gorgeously.
如果田野里的百合花听到我们中的一个人宣称它们既不劳作也不纺纱，它们会怎么说呢？他们会说，我想，如果我们听到他们在所罗门书的经文中谦卑地宣讲，并说：“想想所罗门王的一切荣耀，他们不劳苦，也不纺织。”我们应该这样说。说百合花在谈论它们不明白的事情，虽然所罗门人不劳作也不纺纱，但在他们打扮得如此华丽之前，也不乏劳作或纺纱。

Let me now return to the Professor. I have said enough to show the general drift of the arguments on which he relied in order to show that vegetables are only animals under another name, but have not stated his case in anything like the fullness with which he laid it before the public. The conclusion he drew, or pretended to draw, was that if it was sinful to kill and eat animals, it was not less sinful to do the like by vegetables, or their seeds. None such, he said, should be eaten, save what had died a natural death, such as fruit that was lying on the ground and about to rot, or cabbage- leaves that had turned yellow in late autumn. These and other like garbage he declared to be the only food that might be eaten with a clear conscience. Even so the eater must plant the pips of any apples or pears that he may have eaten, or any plum-stones, cherry- stones, and the like, or he would come near to incurring the guilt of infanticide. The grain of cereals, according to him, was out of the question, for every such grain had a living soul as much as man had, and had as good a right as man to possess that soul in peace.
现在让我回到教授身上。我已经说了足够多的内容来表明他所依据的论点的总体倾向，以证明蔬菜只是动物的另一个名称，但还没有像他向公众展示时那样充分地阐述他的观点。他得出的结论，或者假装得出的结论是，如果杀死和吃动物是有罪的，那么用蔬菜或其种子做同样的事情也同样有罪。他说，这样的东西不应该吃，除非自然死亡的东西，比如躺在地上即将腐烂的水果，或者深秋变黄的卷心菜叶子。他宣称这些和其他垃圾一样是唯一可以问心无愧地食用的食物。即便如此，食用者也必须种植他可能吃过的任何苹果或梨的果核，或者任何李子核、樱桃核等，否则他将几乎犯下杀婴罪。在他看来，谷物是不可能的，因为每一种谷物都像人一样有一个活生生的灵魂，并且和人一样有权利平静地拥有这个灵魂。

Having thus driven his fellow countrymen into a corner at the point of a logical bayonet from which they felt that there was no escape, he proposed that the question what was to be done should be referred to an oracle in which the whole country had the greatest confidence, and to which recourse was always had in times of special perplexity. It was whispered that a near relation of the philosopher’s was lady’s-maid to the priestess who delivered the oracle, and the Puritan party declared that the strangely unequivocal answer of the oracle was obtained by backstairs influence; but whether this was so or no, the response as nearly as I can translate it was as follows:-
就这样，他的同胞们被逼入了一个逻辑刺刀的角落，他们感到无处可逃，他建议，应该做什么的问题应该交给一个神谕，在这个神谕中，整个国家都拥有最伟大的知识。信心，在特别困惑的时候总是可以求助于信心。据传，这位哲学家的近亲是那位发表神谕的女祭司的女仆，而清教徒则宣称，神谕的奇怪而明确的答案是通过幕后影响力获得的。但无论事实是否如此，我所能翻译的答复如下：-

‘He who sins aught Sins more than he ought; But he who sins nought Has much to be taught. Beat or be beaten, Eat or be eaten, Be killed or kill; Choose which you will.’
‘凡犯罪者，其罪过过重；但那些无罪的人却有很多值得教导的地方。打还是被打，吃还是被吃，被杀还是被杀；选择你愿意的。

It was clear that this response sanctioned at any rate the destruction of vegetable life when wanted as food by man; and so forcibly had the philosopher shown that what was sauce for vegetables was so also for animals, that, though the Puritan party made a furious outcry, the acts forbidding the use of meat were repealed by a considerable majority. Thus, after several hundred years of wandering in the wilderness of philosophy, the country reached the conclusions that common sense had long since arrived at. Even the Puritans after a vain attempt to subsist on a kind of jam made of apples and yellow cabbage leaves, succumbed to the inevitable, and resigned themselves to a diet of roast beef and mutton, with all the usual adjuncts of a modern dinner-table.
很明显，这种反应无论如何都允许在人类想要作为食物时破坏植物生命。这位哲学家如此有力地表明，蔬菜的酱汁也适用于动物，因此，尽管清教徒党提出了强烈的抗议，但禁止使用肉类的法案还是被相当多的人废除了。于是，在哲学的荒野中徘徊了数百年之后，这个国家得出了常识早已得出的结论。即使是清教徒，在徒劳地尝试靠苹果和黄甘蓝叶制成的果酱维持生计后，也屈服于不可避免的事实，只吃烤牛肉和烤羊肉，以及现代餐桌上所有常见的佐料。 。

One would have thought that the dance they had been led by the old prophet, and that still madder dance which the Professor of botany had gravely, but as I believe insidiously, proposed to lead them, would have made the Erewhonians for a long time suspicious of prophets whether they professed to have communications with an unseen power or no; but so engrained in the human heart is the desire to believe that some people really do know what they say they know, and can thus save them from the trouble of thinking for themselves, that in a short time would-be philosophers and faddists became more powerful than ever, and gradually led their countrymen to accept all those absurd views of life, some account of which I have given in my earlier chapters. Indeed I can see no hope for the Erewhonians till they have got to understand that reason uncorrected by instinct is as bad as instinct uncorrected by reason.
人们可能会认为，他们由老先知领导的舞蹈，以及植物学教授严肃地、但我相信是阴险地提议领导他们的、仍然更疯狂的舞蹈，会让埃雷洪尼亚人在很长一段时间内产生怀疑。先知是否声称与看不见的力量有联系；但是，人们内心根深蒂固地渴望相信，有些人确实知道他们所说的知道的事情，从而可以使他们免于自己思考的麻烦，因此在很短的时间内，未来的哲学家和时尚主义者就变得更加坚定。比以往任何时候都更强大，并逐渐引导他们的同胞接受所有这些荒谬的人生观，我在前面的章节中对此进行了一些描述。事实上，我看不到埃雷洪人有任何希望，除非他们明白未经本能纠正的理性与未经理性纠正的本能一样糟糕。

CHAPTER XXVIII: ESCAPE
第二十八章：逃跑

Though busily engaged in translating the extracts given in the last five chapters, I was also laying matters in train for my escape with Arowhena. And indeed it was high time, for I received an intimation from one of the cashiers of the Musical Banks, that I was to be prosecuted in a criminal court ostensibly for measles, but really for having owned a watch, and attempted the reintroduction of machinery.
虽然我忙着翻译最后五章的摘录，但我也在为我和阿罗菲娜的逃跑做准备。事实上，现在正是时候，因为我收到音乐银行收银员的暗示，我将在刑事法庭受到起诉，表面上是因为麻疹，但实际上是因为拥有一块手表，并试图重新引入机械。

I asked why measles? and was told that there was a fear lest extenuating circumstances should prevent a jury from convicting me, if I were indicted for typhus or small-pox, but that a verdict would probably be obtained for measles, a disease which could be sufficiently punished in a person of my age. I was given to understand that unless some unexpected change should come over the mind of his Majesty, I might expect the blow to be struck within a very few days.
我问为什么会得麻疹？并被告知，如果我因斑疹伤寒或天花被起诉，陪审团可能会因情有可原的情况而无法对我定罪，但可能会因麻疹而做出判决，麻疹是一种可以在刑事案件中受到充分惩罚的疾病。与我同龄的人。我被告知，除非陛下的想法发生了一些意想不到的变化，否则我可能会在几天之内受到打击。

My plan was this—that Arowhena and I should escape in a balloon together. I fear that the reader will disbelieve this part of my story, yet in no other have I endeavoured to adhere more conscientiously to facts, and can only throw myself upon his charity.
我的计划是这样的——阿罗维娜和我一起乘气球逃走。我担心读者会不相信我故事的这一部分，但在其他故事中我并没有努力更认真地坚持事实，只能依靠他的慈善。

I had already gained the ear of the Queen, and had so worked upon her curiosity that she promised to get leave for me to have a balloon made and inflated; I pointed out to her that no complicated machinery would be wanted—nothing, in fact, but a large quantity of oiled silk, a car, a few ropes, &c., &c., and some light kind of gas, such as the antiquarians who were acquainted with the means employed by the ancients for the production of the lighter gases could easily instruct her workmen how to provide. Her eagerness to see so strange a sight as the ascent of a human being into the sky overcame any scruples of conscience that she might have otherwise felt, and she set the antiquarians about showing her workmen how to make the gas, and sent her maids to buy, and oil, a very large quantity of silk (for I was determined that the balloon should be a big one) even before she began to try and gain the King’s permission; this, however, she now set herself to do, for I had sent her word that my prosecution was imminent.
我已经引起了女王的注意，并且充分激发了她的好奇心，以至于她答应让我制作一个气球并为其充气。我向她指出，不需要复杂的机械——事实上，什么都不需要，只是大量的涂油丝绸、一辆汽车、几根绳子等等，以及一些轻质气体，例如古物。熟悉古人用来生产打火机气体的方法的人可以轻松地指导她的工人如何提供。她渴望看到人类升入天空这样奇怪的景象，克服了她原本可能感受到的任何良心顾虑，她让古物学家向她的工人们展示如何制造气体，并派她的女仆去甚至在她开始尝试获得国王的许可之前，就购买了大量的丝绸并上油（因为我决定气球应该很大）；然而，她现在决定这样做，因为我已经向她传达了我即将被起诉的消息。

As for myself, I need hardly say that I knew nothing about balloons; nor did I see my way to smuggling Arowhena into the car; nevertheless, knowing that we had no other chance of getting away from Erewhon, I drew inspiration from the extremity in which we were placed, and made a pattern from which the Queen’s workmen were able to work successfully. Meanwhile the Queen’s carriage-builders set about making the car, and it was with the attachments of this to the balloon that I had the greatest difficulty; I doubt, indeed, whether I should have succeeded here, but for the great intelligence of a foreman, who threw himself heart and soul into the matter, and often both foresaw requirements, the necessity for which had escaped me, and suggested the means of providing for them.
至于我自己，不用说我对气球一无所知。我也没有找到将阿罗菲娜偷偷塞进车里的方法。尽管如此，我知道我们没有其他机会离开埃瑞翁，所以我从我们所处的绝境中汲取了灵感，并制作了一个模型，女王的工人能够根据这个模型成功地工作。与此同时，女王的马车制造商开始制造汽车，而我遇到最大的困难是将其固定在气球上。事实上，我怀疑我是否会在这里取得成功，如果没有一位工头的伟大智慧，他全心全意地投入到这件事中，并且常常预见到我没有意识到的必要性，并提出了解决问题的方法。为他们提供服务。

It happened that there had been a long drought, during the latter part of which prayers had been vainly offered up in all the temples of the air god. When I first told her Majesty that I wanted a balloon, I said my intention was to go up into the sky and prevail upon the air god by means of a personal interview. I own that this proposition bordered on the idolatrous, but I have long since repented of it, and am little likely ever to repeat the offence. Moreover the deceit, serious though it was, will probably lead to the conversion of the whole country.
恰巧发生了一场长期的干旱，干旱的后期，所有的空气神殿都祈祷无果。当我第一次告诉女王陛下我想要一个气球时，我说我的目的是飞上天空，通过个人采访的方式征服空中之神。我承认这个主张近乎偶像崇拜，但我早已为此悔改，并且不太可能重蹈覆辙。此外，这种欺骗虽然很严重，但很可能会导致整个国家的转变。

When the Queen told his Majesty of my proposal, he at first not only ridiculed it, but was inclined to veto it. Being, however, a very uxorious husband, he at length consented—as he eventually always did to everything on which the Queen had set her heart. He yielded all the more readily now, because he did not believe in the possibility of my ascent; he was convinced that even though the balloon should mount a few feet into the air, it would collapse immediately, whereon I should fall and break my neck, and he should be rid of me. He demonstrated this to her so convincingly, that she was alarmed, and tried to talk me into giving up the idea, but on finding that I persisted in my wish to have the balloon made, she produced an order from the King to the effect that all facilities I might require should be afforded me.
当女王将我的提议告诉国王陛下时，他起初不仅嘲笑它，而且倾向于否决它。然而，作为一个非常奢侈的丈夫，他最终同意了——正如他最终总是对女王所下定决心的一切所做的那样。他现在更加屈服了，因为他不相信我有上升的可能性。他确信，即使气球升到空中几英尺，它也会立即塌陷，我就会掉下来，折断脖子，他就应该摆脱我。他如此令人信服地向她展示了这一点，令她感到震惊，并试图说服我放弃这个想法，但当她发现我坚持制作气球的愿望时，她出示了国王的命令，大意是：我应该提供我可能需要的所有设施。

At the same time her Majesty told me that my attempted ascent would be made an article of impeachment against me in case I did not succeed in prevailing on the air god to stop the drought. Neither King nor Queen had any idea that I meant going right away if I could get the wind to take me, nor had he any conception of the existence of a certain steady upper current of air which was always setting in one direction, as could be seen by the shape of the higher clouds, which pointed invariably from south-east to north- west. I had myself long noticed this peculiarity in the climate, and attributed it, I believe justly, to a trade-wind which was constant at a few thousand feet above the earth, but was disturbed by local influences at lower elevations.
与此同时，女王陛下告诉我，如果我不能成功说服空中之神来阻止干旱，我的登顶尝试将成为对我的弹劾条款。国王和王后都不知道我的意思是如果我能让风带我就立即出发，他也不知道存在某种稳定的上层气流，这种气流总是朝一个方向流动，就像可能的那样。从较高云层的形状可以看出，这些云层总是从东南指向西北。我自己很早就注意到了气候的这种特殊性，并将其归因于信风，我相信这是公正的，信风在距地球数千英尺的地方持续存在，但在较低海拔处受到当地影响的干扰。

My next business was to break the plan to Arowhena, and to devise the means for getting her into the car. I felt sure that she would come with me, but had made up my mind that if her courage failed her, the whole thing should come to nothing. Arowhena and I had been in constant communication through her maid, but I had thought it best not to tell her the details of my scheme till everything was settled. The time had now arrived, and I arranged with the maid that I should be admitted by a private door into Mr. Nosnibor’s garden at about dusk on the following evening.
我的下一个任务是打破阿罗菲娜的计划，并想出办法让她上车。我确信她会和我一起去，但我已经下定决心，如果她失去了勇气，那么整个事情就会失败。阿罗维娜和我一直通过她的女仆保持着联系，但我认为在一切都解决之前最好不要告诉她我计划的细节。现在时间已经到了，我和女仆约定，第二天晚上黄昏时分，我可以从一扇私人门进入诺斯尼伯先生的花园。

I came at the appointed time; the girl let me into the garden and bade me wait in a secluded alley until Arowhena should come. It was now early summer, and the leaves were so thick upon the trees that even though some one else had entered the garden I could have easily hidden myself. The night was one of extreme beauty; the sun had long set, but there was still a rosy gleam in the sky over the ruins of the railway station; below me was the city already twinkling with lights, while beyond it stretched the plains for many a league until they blended with the sky. I just noted these things, but I could not heed them. I could heed nothing, till, as I peered into the darkness of the alley, I perceived a white figure gliding swiftly towards me. I bounded towards it, and ere thought could either prompt or check, I had caught Arowhena to my heart and covered her unresisting cheek with kisses.
我按照约定的时间来了；女孩让我进入花园，并让我在一条僻静的小巷里等待，直到阿罗菲娜到来。现在是初夏，树上的叶子很厚，即使有人进入花园，我也可以轻松隐藏自己。夜晚极其美丽。太阳早已落山了，但火车站废墟上空的天空仍然闪烁着玫瑰色的光芒。在我下方，这座城市已经闪烁着灯光，而在它之外，平原绵延数里，直到与天空融为一体。我只是注意到这些事情，但我无法留意它们。我什么也没有注意到，直到当我凝视着小巷的黑暗时，我发现一个白色的人影迅速向我滑来。我跳向它，还没来得及思考或阻止，我就抓住了阿罗芙娜的心，亲吻了她毫无抵抗力的脸颊。

So overjoyed were we that we knew not how to speak; indeed I do not know when we should have found words and come to our senses, if the maid had not gone off into a fit of hysterics, and awakened us to the necessity of self-control; then, briefly and plainly, I unfolded what I proposed; I showed her the darkest side, for I felt sure that the darker the prospect the more likely she was to come. I told her that my plan would probably end in death for both of us, and that I dared not press it—that at a word from her it should be abandoned; still that there was just a possibility of our escaping together to some part of the world where there would be no bar to our getting married, and that I could see no other hope.
我们高兴得不知如何言语。事实上，如果女仆没有歇斯底里，唤醒我们认识到自我控制的必要性，我真不知道我们什么时候才能找到言语并清醒过来。然后，我简单明了地阐述了我的提议；我向她展示了最黑暗的一面，因为我确信前景越黑暗，她就越有可能来。我告诉她，我的计划很可能会导致我们双双死亡，而且我不敢强求——只要她一句话，就应该放弃；尽管如此，我们还是有可能一起逃到世界上某个地方，在那里我们的结婚不会受到任何阻碍，而且我看不到其他希望。

She made no resistance, not a sign or hint of doubt or hesitation. She would do all I told her, and come whenever I was ready; so I bade her send her maid to meet me nightly—told her that she must put a good face on, look as bright and happy as she could, so as to make her father and mother and Zulora think that she was forgetting me—and be ready at a moment’s notice to come to the Queen’s workshops, and be concealed among the ballast and under rugs in the car of the balloon; and so we parted.
她没有做出任何抵抗，没有任何怀疑或犹豫的迹象或暗示。她会做我告诉她的一切，只要我准备好就来。于是我吩咐她派她的女仆每晚来见我——告诉她一定要摆出一副好脸色，尽量让自己看起来开朗快乐，这样才能让她的爸爸、妈妈和祖罗拉以为她把我忘了——然后立即准备好前往女王的工作室，并隐藏在热气球车内的镇流器和地毯下；于是我们分手了。

I hurried my preparations forward, for I feared rain, and also that the King might change his mind; but the weather continued dry, and in another week the Queen’s workmen had finished the balloon and car, while the gas was ready to be turned on into the balloon at any moment. All being now prepared I was to ascend on the following morning. I had stipulated for being allowed to take abundance of rugs and wrappings as protection from the cold of the upper atmosphere, and also ten or a dozen good-sized bags of ballast.
我加快了准备工作，因为我担心下雨，也担心国王会改变主意。但天气仍然干燥，又过了一周，女王的工人就完成了气球和汽车，同时也准备好随时向气球中通气。现在一切准备就绪，我将在第二天早上登顶。我规定可以携带大量的地毯和包装材料来抵御高层大气的寒冷，还有十袋或一打大袋的镇重物。

I had nearly a quarter’s pension in hand, and with this I fee’d Arowhena’s maid, and bribed the Queen’s foreman—who would, I believe, have given me assistance even without a bribe. He helped me to secrete food and wine in the bags of ballast, and on the morning of my ascent he kept the other workmen out of the way while I got Arowhena into the car. She came with early dawn, muffled up, and in her maid’s dress. She was supposed to be gone to an early performance at one of the Musical Banks, and told me that she should not be missed till breakfast, but that her absence must then be discovered. I arranged the ballast about her so that it should conceal her as she lay at the bottom of the car, and covered her with wrappings. Although it still wanted some hours of the time fixed for my ascent, I could not trust myself one moment from the car, so I got into it at once, and watched the gradual inflation of the balloon. Luggage I had none, save the provisions hidden in the ballast bags, the books of mythology, and the treatises on the machines, with my own manuscript diaries and translations.
我手里有近四分之一的养老金，用这笔钱我招待了阿罗维娜的女仆，并贿赂了女王的工头——我相信，即使没有贿赂，他也会给我帮助。他帮助我将食物和酒装入压舱物袋中，在我攀登的那天早上，当我把阿罗维娜带进车时，他让其他工人不碍事。她天刚蒙蒙亮就来了，穿着女仆装，裹得严严实实的。她本来应该去一家音乐银行观看一场早场演出，并告诉我早餐前不要错过她，但必须在那时发现她的缺席。我把镇流器放在她周围，这样当她躺在车底时，镇流器就能遮住她，并用包裹物盖住她。虽然还需要几个小时的固定时间让我上升，但我在车上一刻都不敢相信自己，所以我立刻钻了进去，看着气球逐渐膨胀。我什么行李都没有，除了压载袋里藏着的给养、神话书籍、机器论文、我自己的手稿日记和翻译。

I sat quietly, and awaited the hour fixed for my departure—quiet outwardly, but inwardly I was in an agony of suspense lest Arowhena’s absence should be discovered before the arrival of the King and Queen, who were to witness my ascent. They were not due yet for another two hours, and during this time a hundred things might happen, any one of which would undo me.
我安静地坐着，等待着出发的时间——表面上很安静，但内心却充满了悬念，唯恐在国王和王后到来之前发现阿罗维娜不在，他们将见证我的升天。还有两个小时他们就到期了，在这段时间里可能会发生一百件事，其中任何一件都会让我崩溃。

At last the balloon was full; the pipe which had filled it was removed, the escape of the gas having been first carefully precluded. Nothing remained to hinder the balloon from ascending but the hands and weight of those who were holding on to it with ropes. I strained my eyes for the coming of the King and Queen, but could see no sign of their approach. I looked in the direction of Mr. Nosnibor’s house—there was nothing to indicate disturbance, but it was not yet breakfast time. The crowd began to gather; they were aware that I was under the displeasure of the court, but I could detect no signs of my being unpopular. On the contrary, I received many kindly expressions of regard and encouragement, with good wishes as to the result of my journey.
气球终于满了。填充它的管道被移开，首先小心地阻止了气体的逸出。除了那些用绳子抓住气球的人的手和重量之外，没有什么能阻止气球上升。我睁大眼睛等待国王和王后的到来，但没有看到他们靠近的迹象。我朝诺斯尼伯先生家的方向看去——没有任何迹象表明有骚乱，但现在还不到早餐时间。人群开始聚集。他们知道我受到法庭的不满，但我看不出我不受欢迎的迹象。相反，我收到了许多善意的关心和鼓励，并对我的旅程的结果表示良好的祝愿。

I was speaking to one gentleman of my acquaintance, and telling him the substance of what I intended to do when I had got into the presence of the air god (what he thought of me I cannot guess, for I am sure that he did not believe in the objective existence of the air god, nor that I myself believed in it), when I became aware of a small crowd of people running as fast as they could from Mr. Nosnibor’s house towards the Queen’s workshops. For the moment my pulse ceased beating, and then, knowing that the time had come when I must either do or die, I called vehemently to those who were holding the ropes (some thirty men) to let go at once, and made gestures signifying danger, and that there would be mischief if they held on longer. Many obeyed; the rest were too weak to hold on to the ropes, and were forced to let them go. On this the balloon bounded suddenly upwards, but my own feeling was that the earth had dropped off from me, and was sinking fast into the open space beneath.
我正在和一位熟人交谈，告诉他当我来到空气之神面前时我打算做什么（我无法猜测他对我的看法，因为我确信他没有当我意识到一小群人以最快的速度从诺斯尼伯先生的房子向女王的工作室跑去时，我相信空气神的客观存在，我自己也不相信。就在我的脉搏停止跳动的那一刻，我知道我要么做，要么死，我猛烈地叫那些拉着绳子的人（大约三十个人）立即放开，并做出了手势。危险，如果他们坚持得更久，就会有恶果。许多人服从了；其余的人都太虚弱了，抓不住绳子，只好松开绳子。气球突然向上弹起，但我自己的感觉是地球已经从我身边掉下来，并且正在快速下沉到下面的空地中。

This happened at the very moment that the attention of the crowd was divided, the one half paying heed to the eager gestures of those coming from Mr. Nosnibor’s house, and the other to the exclamations from myself. A minute more and Arowhena would doubtless have been discovered, but before that minute was over, I was at such a height above the city that nothing could harm me, and every second both the town and the crowd became smaller and more confused. In an incredibly short time, I could see little but a vast wall of blue plains rising up against me, towards whichever side I looked.
这件事发生的时候，人群的注意力已经被分散了，一半人注意着从诺斯尼博尔先生家里传来的热切的手势，另一半人则注意着我自己的惊呼。再过一分钟，阿罗维纳无疑就会被发现，但在那一分钟结束之前，我已经处于城市上方的高度，没有任何东西可以伤害我，每一秒，城镇和人群都变得更小，更混乱。在非常短的时间内，无论我朝哪一边看，我都只能看到一堵巨大的蓝色平原墙在我面前升起。

At first, the balloon mounted vertically upwards, but after about five minutes, when we had already attained a very great elevation, I fancied that the objects on the plain beneath began to move from under me. I did not feel so much as a breath of wind, and could not suppose that the balloon itself was travelling. I was, therefore, wondering what this strange movement of fixed objects could mean, when it struck me that people in a balloon do not feel the wind inasmuch as they travel with it and offer it no resistance. Then I was happy in thinking that I must now have reached the invariable trade wind of the upper air, and that I should be very possibly wafted for hundreds or even thousands of miles, far from Erewhon and the Erewhonians.
起初，气球垂直向上升起，但大约五分钟后，当我们已经达到一个非常高的高度时，我觉得下面平原上的物体开始从我下面移动。我连一丝风的感觉都没有，也无法想象气球本身正在飞行。因此，我想知道固定物体的这种奇怪运动可能意味着什么，当我突然意识到，气球里的人感觉不到风，因为他们随风飞行，并且没有给风带来任何阻力。然后我很高兴地想到，我现在一定已经到达了高空不变的信风，而且我很可能会被吹到数百甚至数千英里之外，远离埃雷洪和埃雷洪人。

Already I had removed the wrappings and freed Arowhena; but I soon covered her up with them again, for it was already very cold, and she was half stupefied with the strangeness of her position.
我已经拆掉了包裹并释放了阿罗菲娜。但我很快又给她盖上，因为天气已经很冷了，她因为自己位置的奇怪而惊呆了。

And now began a time, dream-like and delirious, of which I do not suppose that I shall ever recover a distinct recollection. Some things I can recall—as that we were ere long enveloped in vapour which froze upon my moustache and whiskers; then comes a memory of sitting for hours and hours in a thick fog, hearing no sound but my own breathing and Arowhena’s (for we hardly spoke) and seeing no sight but the car beneath us and beside us, and the dark balloon above.
现在开始了一段如梦似幻、神志不清的时光，我想我永远不会恢复清晰的记忆。有些事情我还记得——比如我们不久就被蒸汽包围了，这些蒸汽冻结在我的小胡子和胡须上；然后是我在浓雾中坐了几个小时的记忆，除了我自己和阿罗维纳的呼吸（因为我们几乎不说话）之外听不到任何声音，除了我们下面和旁边的汽车以及上面的黑色气球之外，什么也看不见。

Perhaps the most painful feeling when the earth was hidden was that the balloon was motionless, though our only hope lay in our going forward with an extreme of speed. From time to time through a rift in the clouds I caught a glimpse of earth, and was thankful to perceive that we must be flying forward faster than in an express train; but no sooner was the rift closed than the old conviction of our being stationary returned in full force, and was not to be reasoned with: there was another feeling also which was nearly as bad; for as a child that fears it has gone blind in a long tunnel if there is no light, so ere the earth had been many minutes hidden, I became half frightened lest we might not have broken away from it clean and for ever. Now and again, I ate and gave food to Arowhena, but by guess-work as regards time. Then came darkness, a dreadful dreary time, without even the moon to cheer us.
也许当地球被隐藏时最痛苦的感觉就是气球一动不动，尽管我们唯一的希望就是以极快的速度前进。我时不时地透过云层的裂缝瞥见地球，并庆幸地意识到我们一定比乘坐特快列车更快地向前飞行；但裂痕一闭合，我们静止不动的旧信念就全力回归，这是不合理的：还有另一种感觉，几乎同样糟糕；因为当我还是个孩子的时候，我担心如果没有光，我会在一条长长的隧道里失明，所以在地球被隐藏了很多分钟之前，我变得有些害怕，生怕我们可能无法彻底地、永远地脱离它。我时不时地给阿罗时娜吃东西，但只是猜测时间。然后黑暗降临了，那是一段可怕而沉闷的时光，甚至连月亮都没有给我们带来欢乐。

With dawn the scene was changed: the clouds were gone and morning stars were shining; the rising of the splendid sun remains still impressed upon me as the most glorious that I have ever seen; beneath us there was an embossed chain of mountains with snow fresh fallen upon them; but we were far above them; we both of us felt our breathing seriously affected, but I would not allow the balloon to descend a single inch, not knowing for how long we might not need all the buoyancy which we could command; indeed I was thankful to find that, after nearly four-and-twenty hours, we were still at so great a height above the earth.
黎明时分，景色发生了变化：乌云散去，晨星闪耀；灿烂的太阳的升起仍然给我留下了深刻的印象，这是我所见过的最辉煌的太阳。我们脚下是一连串的山脉，上面刚落过雪。但我们远远高于他们；我们俩都感到呼吸受到严重影响，但我不允许气球下降一英寸，不知道我们可能需要多长时间不需要我们可以控制的所有浮力；事实上，我很庆幸地发现，在将近四个小时和二十个小时之后，我们仍然处于距地球如此高的高度。

In a couple of hours we had passed the ranges, which must have been some hundred and fifty miles across, and again I saw a tract of level plain extending far away to the horizon. I knew not where we were, and dared not descend, lest I should waste the power of the balloon, but I was half hopeful that we might be above the country from which I had originally started. I looked anxiously for any sign by which I could recognise it, but could see nothing, and feared that we might be above some distant part of Erewhon, or a country inhabited by savages. While I was still in doubt, the balloon was again wrapped in clouds, and we were left to blank space and to conjectures.
几个小时后，我们就穿过了山脉，山脉肯定有一百五十英里宽，我再次看到了一大片平坦的平原，一直延伸到地平线。我不知道我们在哪里，也不敢下降，以免浪费气球的力量，但我对我们可能在我最初出发的国家上方抱有一半的希望。我焦急地寻找任何可以认出它的迹象，但什么也看不见，我担心我们可能在埃雷洪的某个遥远的地方，或者是一个野蛮人居住的国家之上。当我还在犹豫的时候，气球又被云层包裹住了，我们只剩下一片空白和猜测。

The weary time dragged on. How I longed for my unhappy watch! I felt as though not even time was moving, so dumb and spell-bound were our surroundings. Sometimes I would feel my pulse, and count its beats for half-an-hour together; anything to mark the time—to prove that it was there, and to assure myself that we were within the blessed range of its influence, and not gone adrift into the timelessness of eternity.
疲惫的时间一拖再拖。我多么渴望看到那只不快乐的手表啊！我觉得时间仿佛都没有流动，我们的周围是如此的愚蠢和令人着迷。有时我会摸脉搏，一起数半个小时；任何可以标记时间的事情——证明它就在那里，并向自己保证我们处于它的影响范围之内，而不是漂流到永恒的永恒之中。

I had been doing this for the twentieth or thirtieth time, and had fallen into a light sleep: I dreamed wildly of a journey in an express train, and of arriving at a railway station where the air was full of the sound of locomotive engines blowing off steam with a horrible and tremendous hissing; I woke frightened and uneasy, but the hissing and crashing noises pursued me now that I was awake, and forced me to own that they were real. What they were I knew not, but they grew gradually fainter and fainter, and after a time were lost. In a few hours the clouds broke, and I saw beneath me that which made the chilled blood run colder in my veins. I saw the sea, and nothing but the sea; in the main black, but flecked with white heads of storm-tossed, angry waves.
我已经这样做了第二十次或第三十次了，进入了浅睡：我疯狂地梦想着乘坐特快列车旅行，到达火车站，空气中充满了机车引擎的轰鸣声。失去动力，发出可怕而巨大的嘶嘶声；我醒来时感到害怕和不安，但嘶嘶声和撞击声在我醒来后追着我，迫使我承认它们是真实的。我不知道它们是什么，但它们逐渐变得越来越淡，过了一段时间就消失了。几个小时后，云层散去，我看到了脚下的东西，这让我血管里冰冷的血液变得更加寒冷。我看到了大海，除了大海什么也没有；主体是黑色的，但点缀着暴风雨翻腾的愤怒波浪的白色头部。

Arowhena was sleeping quietly at the bottom of the car, and as I looked at her sweet and saintly beauty, I groaned, and cursed myself for the misery into which I had brought her; but there was nothing for it now.
阿罗芙娜正在车底安静地睡着，当我看着她甜美而圣洁的美丽时，我呻吟着，咒骂自己让她陷入了痛苦之中；但现在已经没有办法了。

I sat and waited for the worst, and presently I saw signs as though that worst were soon to be at hand, for the balloon had begun to sink. On first seeing the sea I had been impressed with the idea that we must have been falling, but now there could be no mistake, we were sinking, and that fast. I threw out a bag of ballast, and for a time we rose again, but in the course of a few hours the sinking recommenced, and I threw out another bag.
我坐下来等待最坏的情况发生，不久我就看到了迹象，似乎最坏的情况即将到来，因为气球已经开始下沉。第一次看到大海时，我印象深刻，我们一定是在下落，但现在毫无疑问，我们正在下沉，而且速度那么快。我扔掉了一袋压舱物，有一段时间我们又上升了，但几个小时后又开始下沉，我扔掉了另一袋。

Then the battle commenced in earnest. It lasted all that afternoon and through the night until the following evening. I had seen never a sail nor a sign of a sail, though I had half blinded myself with straining my eyes incessantly in every direction; we had parted with everything but the clothes which we had upon our backs; food and water were gone, all thrown out to the wheeling albatrosses, in order to save us a few hours or even minutes from the sea. I did not throw away the books till we were within a few feet of the water, and clung to my manuscripts to the very last. Hope there seemed none whatever—yet, strangely enough we were neither of us utterly hopeless, and even when the evil that we dreaded was upon us, and that which we greatly feared had come, we sat in the car of the balloon with the waters up to our middle, and still smiled with a ghastly hopefulness to one another.
然后战斗就正式开始了。它持续了整个下午和整个晚上，直到第二天晚上。我从来没有见过帆，也没有见过帆的迹象，尽管我不断地向各个方向看去，眼睛已经半瞎了。除了背上的衣服，我们什么都舍弃了。食物和水都没有了，全都被扔给了旋转的信天翁，以便我们能在离开大海的时候节省几个小时甚至几分钟的时间。直到我们离水只有几英尺的时候，我才把书扔掉，直到最后一刻我都紧紧抓住我的手稿。似乎没有任何希望——然而，奇怪的是，我们俩都没有完全绝望，即使我们害怕的邪恶降临到我们身上，我们非常害怕的事情已经到来，我们还是坐在气球的车厢里，水里有水。直到我们中间，仍然彼此微笑，带着可怕的希望。

* * *

He who has crossed the St. Gothard will remember that below Andermatt there is one of those Alpine gorges which reach the very utmost limits of the sublime and terrible. The feelings of the traveller have become more and more highly wrought at every step, until at last the naked and overhanging precipices seem to close above his head, as he crosses a bridge hung in mid-air over a roaring waterfall, and enters on the darkness of a tunnel, hewn out of the rock.
穿越过圣哥特哈德河的人都会记得，在安德马特下面有一个阿尔卑斯峡谷，它达到了崇高和可怕的极限。旅行者的感情每走一步都变得越来越强烈，直到最后，当他跨过一座悬在半空中的桥，悬在咆哮的瀑布上时，裸露的、悬垂的悬崖似乎在他的头顶上闭合了。从岩石中凿出的黑暗隧道。

What can be in store for him on emerging? Surely something even wilder and more desolate than that which he has seen already; yet his imagination is paralysed, and can suggest no fancy or vision of anything to surpass the reality which he had just witnessed. Awed and breathless he advances; when lo! the light of the afternoon sun welcomes him as he leaves the tunnel, and behold a smiling valley— a babbling brook, a village with tall belfries, and meadows of brilliant green—these are the things which greet him, and he smiles to himself as the terror passes away and in another moment is forgotten.
崭露头角后他会面临什么？肯定有比他已​​经看到的更荒凉、更荒凉的东西。然而他的想象力却是瘫痪的，无法提出任何超越他刚刚目睹的现实的幻想或愿景。他满怀敬畏，气喘吁吁地向前走；当瞧！当他离开隧道时，午后的阳光迎接着他，看到一个微笑的山谷——一条潺潺的小溪，一个有着高高钟楼的村庄，还有翠绿的草地——这些都是迎接他的东西，他对自己微笑恐惧消失了，转眼间就被遗忘了。

So fared it now with ourselves. We had been in the water some two or three hours, and the night had come upon us. We had said farewell for the hundredth time, and had resigned ourselves to meet the end; indeed I was myself battling with a drowsiness from which it was only too probable that I should never wake; when suddenly, Arowhena touched me on the shoulder, and pointed to a light and to a dark mass which was bearing right upon us. A cry for help—loud and clear and shrill—broke forth from both of us at once; and in another five minutes we were carried by kind and tender hands on to the deck of an Italian vessel.
我们自己现在就这样了。我们在水里待了大约两三个小时，夜幕降临了。我们已经第一百次告别了，已经听天由命地迎接最后的结局了。事实上，我自己也在与困倦作斗争，很可能我永远都醒不过来。突然，阿罗维娜拍了拍我的肩膀，指着我们面前的一团光和一团黑团。我们俩同时发出一声响亮、清晰、尖锐的求救声。又过了五分钟，我们被友善而温柔的双手带到了一艘意大利船只的甲板上。

CHAPTER XXIX: CONCLUSION
第二十九章：结论

The ship was the Principe Umberto, bound from Callao to Genoa; she had carried a number of emigrants to Rio, had gone thence to Callao, where she had taken in a cargo of guano, and was now on her way home. The captain was a certain Giovanni Gianni, a native of Sestri; he has kindly allowed me to refer to him in case the truth of my story should be disputed; but I grieve to say that I suffered him to mislead himself in some important particulars. I should add that when we were picked up we were a thousand miles from land.
这艘船是“Principe Umberto”号，从卡亚俄开往热那亚。她载着一些移民到里约热内卢，从那里前往卡亚俄，在那里装了一批鸟粪，现在正在回家的路上。船长是乔瓦尼·贾尼（Giovanni Gianni），塞斯特里人。他好心地允许我向他求助，以防我的故事的真实性受到争议。但我很遗憾地说，我让他在一些重要的细节上误导了自己。我应该补充一点，当我们被接走时，我们距离陆地有一千英里。

As soon as we were on board, the captain began questioning us about the siege of Paris, from which city he had assumed that we must have come, notwithstanding our immense distance from Europe. As may be supposed, I had not heard a syllable about the war between France and Germany, and was too ill to do more than assent to all that he chose to put into my mouth. My knowledge of Italian is very imperfect, and I gathered little from anything that he said; but I was glad to conceal the true point of our departure, and resolved to take any cue that he chose to give me.
我们一上船，船长就开始向我们询问巴黎被围困的情况，他认为我们一定是从巴黎来的，尽管我们距离欧洲很远。可以想象，我没有听到关于法国和德国之间战争的任何一个音节，而且病得太重，只能同意他选择放入我嘴里的所有内容。我对意大利语的了解很不全面，我从他所说的任何事情中都听不到什么。但我很高兴隐瞒了我们出发的真正目的，并决定接受他选择给我的任何暗示。

The line that thus suggested itself was that there had been ten or twelve others in the balloon, that I was an English Milord, and Arowhena a Russian Countess; that all the others had been drowned, and that the despatches which we had carried were lost. I came afterwards to learn that this story would not have been credible, had not the captain been for some weeks at sea, for I found that when we were picked up, the Germans had already long been masters of Paris. As it was, the captain settled the whole story for me, and I was well content.
由此暗示的台词是，气球里还有十到十二个人，我是一位英国贵族，阿罗维娜是一位俄罗斯伯爵夫人；其他人都被淹死了，我们携带的信件也丢失了。后来我才知道，如果船长不是在海上呆了几个星期，这个故事就不可信，因为我发现当我们被接上来时，德国人早已成为巴黎的主人了。事实如此，船长给我解决了整个事情，我也很满足了。

In a few days we sighted an English vessel bound from Melbourne to London with wool. At my earnest request, in spite of stormy weather which rendered it dangerous for a boat to take us from one ship to the other, the captain consented to signal the English vessel, and we were received on board, but we were transferred with such difficulty that no communication took place as to the manner of our being found. I did indeed hear the Italian mate who was in charge of the boat shout out something in French to the effect that we had been picked up from a balloon, but the noise of the wind was so great, and the captain understood so little French that he caught nothing of the truth, and it was assumed that we were two persons who had been saved from shipwreck. When the captain asked me in what ship I had been wrecked, I said that a party of us had been carried out to sea in a pleasure-boat by a strong current, and that Arowhena (whom I described as a Peruvian lady) and I were alone saved.
几天后，我们看到一艘英国船只从墨尔本开往伦敦，满载羊毛。在我的恳切请求下，尽管暴风雨天气使船只将我们从一艘船带到另一艘船变得危险，但船长同意向英国船发出信号，我们被接上船，但我们转移得很困难没有就我们被发现的方式进行任何沟通。我确实听到负责这艘船的意大利大副用法语大喊了一句，大意是我们是从气球上接起来的，但是风的噪音太大了，船长不懂法语，他没有了解到真相，并认为我们是从海难中获救的两个人。当船长问我在哪艘船上失事时，我说我们一行人乘坐一艘游船被强劲的水流冲到了海上，而阿罗菲娜（我将她描述为一位秘鲁女士）和我独自得救。

There were several passengers, whose goodness towards us we can never repay. I grieve to think that they cannot fail to discover that we did not take them fully into our confidence; but had we told them all, they would not have believed us, and I was determined that no one should hear of Erewhon, or have the chance of getting there before me, as long as I could prevent it. Indeed, the recollection of the many falsehoods which I was then obliged to tell, would render my life miserable were I not sustained by the consolations of my religion. Among the passengers there was a most estimable clergyman, by whom Arowhena and I were married within a very few days of our coming on board.
有几个乘客对我们的恩情我们永远无法报答。我悲伤地想到，他们一定会发现我们并没有完全信任他们。但如果我们把一切都告诉他们，他们就不会相信我们，而且我下定决心，只要我能阻止，就不应该让任何人听说埃里洪，或者有机会在我之前到达那里。事实上，如果我没有得到宗教的安慰，回想起当时我不得不说出的许多谎言，我的生活将会变得悲惨。乘客中有一位最值得尊敬的牧师，我和阿罗维娜上船后没几天就在他的主持下结婚了。

After a prosperous voyage of about two months, we sighted the Land’s End, and in another week we were landed at London. A liberal subscription was made for us on board the ship, so that we found ourselves in no immediate difficulty about money. I accordingly took Arowhena down into Somersetshire, where my mother and sisters had resided when I last heard of them. To my great sorrow I found that my mother was dead, and that her death had been accelerated by the report of my having been killed, which had been brought to my employer’s station by Chowbok. It appeared that he must have waited for a few days to see whether I returned, that he then considered it safe to assume that I should never do so, and had accordingly made up a story about my having fallen into a whirlpool of seething waters while coming down the gorge homeward. Search was made for my body, but the rascal had chosen to drown me in a place where there would be no chance of its ever being recovered.
经过大约两个月的顺利航行，我们看到了天涯海角，又一周后，我们在伦敦登陆。船上为我们提供了慷慨的捐款，因此我们发现自己在金钱方面没有立即遇到困难。于是，我带着阿罗维娜去了萨默塞特郡，当我最后一次听说我的母亲和姐妹时，她们就住在那里。令我非常悲痛的是，我发现我的母亲已经死了，而且乔博克把我被杀的消息带到我雇主的驻地，加速了她的死亡。看来他一定等了几天，看我是否回来，然后他认为我永远不应该回来，因此编造了一个关于我在沸腾的水漩涡中的故事。沿着峡谷回家。人们搜寻了我的尸体，但这个流氓却选择把我淹死在一个永远不可能被找到的地方。

My sisters were both married, but neither of their husbands was rich. No one seemed overjoyed on my return; and I soon discovered that when a man’s relations have once mourned for him as dead, they seldom like the prospect of having to mourn for him a second time.
我的姐妹们都已结婚，但她们的丈夫都不富有。似乎没有人对我的回归感到欣喜若狂。我很快发现，当一个人的亲人为他的死者哀悼一次后，他们就很少愿意为他第二次哀悼。

Accordingly I returned to London with my wife, and through the assistance of an old friend supported myself by writing good little stories for the magazines, and for a tract society. I was well paid; and I trust that I may not be considered presumptuous in saying that some of the most popular of the brochures which are distributed in the streets, and which are to be found in the waiting-rooms of the railway stations, have proceeded from my pen. During the time that I could spare, I arranged my notes and diary till they assumed their present shape. There remains nothing for me to add, save to unfold the scheme which I propose for the conversion of Erewhon.
因此，我和妻子回到了伦敦，在一位老朋友的帮助下，通过为杂志和小册子写一些好的小故事来养活自己。我的薪水很高；我相信，如果我说一些在街道上分发的、在火车站候车室里可以找到的最受欢迎的小册子是出自我的笔下，这不会被认为是自以为是。在空闲的时间里，我整理笔记和日记，直到它们呈现出现在的形状。除了展开我为改造埃里洪而提出的计划外，我没有什么可补充的了。

That scheme has only been quite recently decided upon as the one which seems most likely to be successful.
该计划直到最近才被确定为最有可能成功的计划。

It will be seen at once that it would be madness for me to go with ten or a dozen subordinate missionaries by the same way as that which led me to discover Erewhon. I should be imprisoned for typhus, besides being handed over to the straighteners for having run away with Arowhena: an even darker fate, to which I dare hardly again allude, would be reserved for my devoted fellow- labourers. It is plain, therefore, that some other way must be found for getting at the Erewhonians, and I am thankful to say that such another way is not wanting. One of the rivers which descends from the Snowy Mountains, and passes through Erewhon, is known to be navigable for several hundred miles from its mouth. Its upper waters have never yet been explored, but I feel little doubt that it will be found possible to take a light gunboat (for we must protect ourselves) to the outskirts of the Erewhonian country.
很快我们就会发现，如果我带着十个或十几名下级传教士走上发现埃瑞翁的同样道路，那简直就是疯狂。我应该因斑疹伤寒入狱，除了因与阿罗维娜私奔而被移交给矫正者之外：我几乎不敢再次提及的更黑暗的命运将留给我忠诚的工友。因此，很明显，必须找到其他方法来攻击埃雷洪尼亚人，而且我很庆幸地说，这种其他方法并不需要。其中一条河流发源于雪山，流经埃雷洪，距河口数百英里可通航。它的上游水域尚未被探索过，但我毫不怀疑，有可能乘坐轻型炮艇（因为我们必须保护自己）前往埃雷洪尼亚国家的郊区。

I propose, therefore, that one of those associations should be formed in which the risk of each of the members is confined to the amount of his stake in the concern. The first step would be to draw up a prospectus. In this I would advise that no mention should be made of the fact that the Erewhonians are the lost tribes. The discovery is one of absorbing interest to myself, but it is of a sentimental rather than commercial value, and business is business. The capital to be raised should not be less than fifty thousand pounds, and might be either in five or ten pound shares as hereafter determined. This should be amply sufficient for the expenses of an experimental voyage.
因此，我建议成立这样一个协会，其中每个成员的风险仅限于其在该公司的股份数额。第一步是起草招股说明书。在此，我建议不要提及埃雷洪尼亚人是失落部落这一事实。这一发现对我来说很有趣，但它具有情感价值而不是商业价值，而且生意就是生意。筹集的资金不应少于五万英镑，并且可以是五英镑或十英镑的股份，具体情况将在下文确定。这对于一次实验航行的费用来说应该是足够的了。

When the money had been subscribed, it would be our duty to charter a steamer of some twelve or fourteen hundred tons burden, and with accommodation for a cargo of steerage passengers. She should carry two or three guns in case of her being attacked by savages at the mouth of the river. Boats of considerable size should be also provided, and I think it would be desirable that these also should carry two or three six-pounders. The ship should be taken up the river as far as was considered safe, and a picked party should then ascend in the boats. The presence both of Arowhena and myself would be necessary at this stage, inasmuch as our knowledge of the language would disarm suspicion, and facilitate negotiations.
当这笔钱被认购后，我们的责任就是租一艘大约十二或一千四百吨的轮船，并为全舱乘客提供住宿。她应该携带两三把枪，以防在河口遭到野人的袭击。还应该提供相当大的船只，我认为这些船只也应该携带两到三艘六磅炮是可取的。在认为安全的情况下，应将船带到河上，然后由选定的人员乘船上升。在这个阶段，阿罗维纳和我本人都必须在场，因为我们的语言知识可以消除怀疑并促进谈判。

We should begin by representing the advantages afforded to labour in the colony of Queensland, and point out to the Erewhonians that by emigrating thither, they would be able to amass, each and all of them, enormous fortunes—a fact which would be easily provable by a reference to statistics. I have no doubt that a very great number might be thus induced to come back with us in the larger boats, and that we could fill our vessel with emigrants in three or four journeys.
我们应该首先阐述昆士兰殖民地为劳工提供的优势，并向埃雷洪人指出，通过移民到那里，他们每个人都能够积累巨额财富——这一事实很容易证明通过参考统计数据。我毫不怀疑，可能会吸引很多人乘坐更大的船只与我们一起返回，并且我们可以在三到四趟旅程中将移民装满我们的船只。

Should we be attacked, our course would be even simpler, for the Erewhonians have no gunpowder, and would be so surprised with its effects that we should be able to capture as many as we chose; in this case we should feel able to engage them on more advantageous terms, for they would be prisoners of war. But even though we were to meet with no violence, I doubt not that a cargo of seven or eight hundred Erewhonians could be induced, when they were once on board the vessel, to sign an agreement which should be mutually advantageous both to us and them.
如果我们受到攻击，我们的路线会更简单，因为埃雷洪尼亚人没有火药，而且会对其效果感到惊讶，我们应该能够捕获我们选择的尽可能多的人；在这种情况下，我们应该感到能够以更有利的条件与他们交战，因为他们将成为战俘。但即使我们没有发生暴力冲突，我也不怀疑七八百名埃雷洪人一旦登上船只，就能被诱使签署一项对我们和他们双方都有利的协议。 。

We should then proceed to Queensland, and dispose of our engagement with the Erewhonians to the sugar-growers of that settlement, who are in great want of labour; it is believed that the money thus realised would enable us to declare a handsome dividend, and leave a considerable balance, which might be spent in repeating our operations and bringing over other cargoes of Erewhonians, with fresh consequent profits. In fact we could go backwards and forwards as long as there was a demand for labour in Queensland, or indeed in any other Christian colony, for the supply of Erewhonians would be unlimited, and they could be packed closely and fed at a very reasonable cost.
然后我们应该前往昆士兰，把我们与埃雷洪尼亚人的接触交给该定居点的糖种植者，因为他们非常需要劳动力；据信，由此实现的资金将使我们能够宣布可观的股息，并留下可观的余额，这些余额可用于重复我们的业务并运送埃鲁洪人的其他货物，从而带来新的利润。事实上，只要昆士兰，或者任何其他基督教殖民地有劳动力需求，我们就可以来回走动，因为埃雷洪尼亚人的供应是无限的，他们可以紧密地包装在一起，并以非常合理的成本喂养。 。

It would be my duty and Arowhena’s to see that our emigrants should be boarded and lodged in the households of religious sugar-growers; these persons would give them the benefit of that instruction whereof they stand so greatly in need. Each day, as soon as they could be spared from their work in the plantations, they would be assembled for praise, and be thoroughly grounded in the Church Catechism, while the whole of every Sabbath should be devoted to singing psalms and church-going.
我和阿罗维纳的职责是确保我们的移民能够在宗教糖农的家庭中得到寄宿。这些人将使他们受益于他们非常需要的指导。每天，只要他们能从种植园的工作中解脱出来，他们就会聚集在一起接受赞美，并彻底扎根于教会教义问答，而每个安息日的整个时间都应该用来唱诗篇和去教堂。

This must be insisted upon, both in order to put a stop to any uneasy feeling which might show itself either in Queensland or in the mother country as to the means whereby the Erewhonians had been obtained, and also because it would give our own shareholders the comfort of reflecting that they were saving souls and filling their own pockets at one and the same moment. By the time the emigrants had got too old for work they would have become thoroughly instructed in religion; they could then be shipped back to Erewhon and carry the good seed with them.
必须坚持这一点，既是为了制止昆士兰州或母国可能对获得埃雷洪尼亚人的方式表现出的任何不安情绪，也是因为这将使我们自己的股东想到他们在拯救灵魂的同时又充实了自己的口袋，这让他们感到很安慰。当移民到了不能工作的年龄时，他们就会接受彻底的宗教教育。然后，他们可以被运回埃里洪并随身携带好种子。

I can see no hitch nor difficulty about the matter, and trust that this book will sufficiently advertise the scheme to insure the subscription of the necessary capital; as soon as this is forthcoming I will guarantee that I convert the Erewhonians not only into good Christians but into a source of considerable profit to the shareholders.
我认为这件事没有任何障碍或困难，并相信这本书将充分宣传该计划，以确保认购必要的资本；一旦这一切到来，我将保证我不仅将埃雷洪人转变为优秀的基督徒，而且将其转变为股东可观利润的来源。

I should add that I cannot claim the credit for having originated the above scheme. I had been for months at my wit’s end, forming plan after plan for the evangelisation of Erewhon, when by one of those special interpositions which should be a sufficient answer to the sceptic, and make even the most confirmed rationalist irrational, my eye was directed to the following paragraph in the Times newspaper, of one of the first days in January 1872:-
我应该补充一点，我不能声称自己发起了上述计划。几个月来，我一直束手无策，为埃里翁传福音制定了一个又一个的计划，当通过其中一个特殊的干预措施时，我的眼睛被引导了，这些干预措施应该足以回答怀疑论者，甚至使最坚定的理性主义者变得非理性。 《泰晤士报》中 1872 年 1 月头一天的以下一段话：

‘POLYNESIANS IN QUEENSLAND.—The Marquis of Normanby, the new Governor of Queensland, has completed his inspection of the northern districts of the colony. It is stated that at Mackay, one of the best sugar-growing districts, his Excellency saw a good deal of the Polynesians. In the course of a speech to those who entertained him there, the Marquis said:- ‘I have been told that the means by which Polynesians were obtained were not legitimate, but I have failed to perceive this, in so far at least as Queensland is concerned; and, if one can judge by the countenances and manners of the Polynesians, they experience no regret at their position.’ But his Excellency pointed out the advantage of giving them religious instruction. It would tend to set at rest an uneasy feeling which at present existed in the country to know that they were inclined to retain the Polynesians, and teach them religion.’
昆士兰州的波利尼西亚人——昆士兰州新任总督诺曼比侯爵已完成对殖民地北部地区的视察。据说，在最好的糖产区之一麦凯，阁下见到了很多波利尼西亚人。侯爵在向在那里招待他的人发表讲话时说：“有人告诉我，获得波利尼西亚人的方式是不合法的，但我没有意识到这一点，至少在昆士兰州是如此。”被关注到; “如果人们能从波利尼西亚人的面容和举止来判断，他们不会对自己的处境感到遗憾。”但阁下指出了给予他们宗教教育的好处。如果知道他们倾向于保留波利尼西亚人并教导他们宗教，这往往会平息该国目前存在的一种不安情绪。

I feel that comment is unnecessary, and will therefore conclude with one word of thanks to the reader who may have had the patience to follow me through my adventures without losing his temper; but with two, for any who may write at once to the Secretary of the Erewhon Evangelisation Company, limited (at the address which shall hereafter be advertised), and request to have his name put down as a shareholder.
我觉得评论是不必要的，因此我想对读者说一声感谢，感谢他们耐心地跟随我经历了我的冒险而不发脾气；但有两个，任何人可以立即写信给 Erewhon Evangelization Company, Limited 的秘书（地址将在下文中公布），并要求将其姓名写为股东。

P.S.—I had just received and corrected the last proof of the foregoing volume, and was walking down the Strand from Temple Bar to Charing Cross, when on passing Exeter Hall I saw a number of devout-looking people crowding into the building with faces full of interested and complacent anticipation. I stopped, and saw an announcement that a missionary meeting was to be held forthwith, and that the native missionary, the Rev. William Habakkuk, from— (the colony from which I had started on my adventures), would be introduced, and make a short address. After some little difficulty I obtained admission, and heard two or three speeches, which were prefatory to the introduction of Mr. Habakkuk. One of these struck me as perhaps the most presumptuous that I had ever heard. The speaker said that the races of whom Mr. Habakkuk was a specimen, were in all probability the lost ten tribes of Israel. I dared not contradict him then, but I felt angry and injured at hearing the speaker jump to so preposterous a conclusion upon such insufficient grounds. The discovery of the ten tribes was mine, and mine only. I was still in the very height of indignation, when there was a murmur of expectation in the hall, and Mr. Habakkuk was brought forward. The reader may judge of my surprise at finding that he was none other than my old friend Chowbok!
P.S.——我刚刚收到并改正了上一卷的最后一份校样，正沿着斯特​​兰德街从圣殿酒吧步行到查令十字街，经过埃克塞特大厅时，我看到许多虔诚的人们满脸满脸地涌进大楼。充满兴趣和自满的期待。我停下来，看到一个布告，即将召开传教士会议，来自——（我开始冒险的殖民地）的本土传教士威廉·哈巴谷牧师将被介绍，并让一个简短的地址。经过一些小困难后，我获得了入场许可，并听到了两三场演讲，这些演讲是介绍哈巴谷先生的序言。其中之一让我觉得也许是我听过的最自以为是的。演讲者说，以哈巴谷先生为样本的种族很可能就是以色列失落的十个支派。当时我不敢反驳他，但听到演讲者在如此不充分的理由下得出如此荒谬的结论，我感到愤怒和受伤。十个部落的发现是我的，也只是我的。正当我义愤填膺时，大厅里响起一片期待的低语声，哈巴谷先生被带上前来。读者可能会判断我对发现他正是我的老朋友乔博克的惊讶！

My jaw dropped, and my eyes almost started out of my head with astonishment. The poor fellow was dreadfully frightened, and the storm of applause which greeted his introduction seemed only to add to his confusion. I dare not trust myself to report his speech— indeed I could hardly listen to it, for I was nearly choked with trying to suppress my feelings. I am sure that I caught the words ‘Adelaide, the Queen Dowager,’ and I thought that I heard ‘Mary Magdalene’ shortly afterwards, but I had then to leave the hall for fear of being turned out. While on the staircase, I heard another burst of prolonged and rapturous applause, so I suppose the audience were satisfied.
我惊得下巴都掉下来了，眼睛都快要瞪出来了。这个可怜的家伙被吓坏了，迎接他的介绍所引发的暴风雨般的掌声似乎只会让他更加困惑。我不敢相信自己去报道他的演讲——事实上，我几乎听不进去，因为我几乎因为压抑自己的感情而窒息。我确信我听到了“阿德莱德，太后”这个词，我以为不久之后我听到了“抹大拉的玛丽亚”，但我不得不离开大厅，因为担心被赶出去。在楼梯上，我又听到了一阵持久而热烈的掌声，所以我想观众们都很满意。

The feelings that came uppermost in my mind were hardly of a very solemn character, but I thought of my first acquaintance with Chowbok, of the scene in the woodshed, of the innumerable lies he had told me, of his repeated attempts upon the brandy, and of many an incident which I have not thought it worth while to dwell upon; and I could not but derive some satisfaction from the hope that my own efforts might have contributed to the change which had been doubtless wrought upon him, and that the rite which I had performed, however unprofessionally, on that wild upland river-bed, had not been wholly without effect. I trust that what I have written about him in the earlier part of my book may not be libellous, and that it may do him no harm with his employers. He was then unregenerate. I must certainly find him out and have a talk with him; but before I shall have time to do so these pages will be in the hands of the public.
我脑海中浮现出的最强烈的感觉并不是一种非常庄严的性格，但我想起了我第一次认识乔博克，想起了柴棚里的场景，想起了他对我说过的无数谎言，想起了他反复尝试喝白兰地，还有许多我认为不值得细想的事件；我不得不从希望中得到一些满足，希望我自己的努力可能有助于改变他身上无疑发生的变化，而且我在那个荒凉的高地河床上举行的仪式，无论多么不专业，已经并非完全没有影响。我相信我在书的前半部分所写的关于他的内容可能不是诽谤性的，而且这也不会对他的雇主造成伤害。那时他还没有重生。我一定要找到他，跟他谈谈；但在我有时间这样做之前，这些页面将交到公众手中。

At the last moment I see a probability of a complication which causes me much uneasiness. Please subscribe quickly. Address to the Mansion-House, care of the Lord Mayor, whom I will instruct to receive names and subscriptions for me until I can organise a committee.
在最后一刻，我看到了可能发生的并发症，这让我感到非常不安。请速速订阅。向官邸致辞，由市长大人负责，我将指示他为我接收姓名和捐款，直到我可以组织一个委员会。

Footnotes
脚注

{1} The last part of Chapter XXIII.
{1} 第二十三章的最后部分。

{2} See Handel’s compositions for the harpsichord, published by Litolf, p. 78.
{2}参见亨德尔的羽管键琴作品，由 Litolf 出版，第 14 页。 78.

{3} The myth above alluded to exists in Erewhon with changed names, and considerable modifications. I have taken the liberty of referring to the story as familiar to ourselves.
{3}上面提到的神话存在于 Erewhon，但名称已更改，并且进行了相当大的修改。我冒昧地提到了这个我们所熟悉的故事。

{4} What a SAFE word ‘relation’ is; how little it predicates! yet it has overgrown ‘kinsman.’
{4}“关系”是一个多么安全的词啊？它的谓词是多么少啊！但它已经过度生长“亲戚”。

{5} The root alluded to is not the potato of our own gardens, but a plant so near akin to it that I have ventured to translate it thus. Apropos of its intelligence, had the writer known Butler he would probably have said -
{5}所提到的根不是我们自己花园里的马铃薯，而是一种与它非常相似的植物，因此我冒昧地这样翻译它。就其情报而言，如果作者认识巴特勒，他可能会说——

“He knows what’s what, and that’s as high,
“他知道什么是什么，那就是高，

As metaphysic wit can fly.’
正如形而上学的智慧可以飞翔一样。

{6} Since my return to England, I have been told that those who are conversant about machines use many terms concerning them which show that their vitality is here recognised, and that a collection of expressions in use among those who attend on steam engines would be no less startling than instructive. I am also informed, that almost all machines have their own tricks and idiosyncrasies; that they know their drivers and keepers; and that they will play pranks upon a stranger. It is my intention, on a future occasion, to bring together examples both of the expressions in common use among mechanicians, and of any extraordinary exhibitions of mechanical sagacity and eccentricity that I can meet with—not as believing in the Erewhonian Professor’s theory, but from the interest of the subject.
{6}自从我回到英国后，有人告诉我，那些熟悉机器的人使用了许多与机器有关的术语，这表明它们的生命力在这里得到了认可，并且在那些关注蒸汽机的人中使用的一系列表达方式将既令人震惊，又具有启发性。我还了解到，几乎所有机器都有自己的技巧和特性；他们了解自己的司机和饲养员；他们会对陌生人恶作剧。我的目的是，在未来的某个场合，将机械师常用的表达方式以及我能遇到的任何机械智慧和怪异的非凡表现的例子汇集在一起​​——不是相信埃里洪尼亚教授的理论，而是从主题的兴趣出发。